AB:  The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation, coinciding nearly with August. W. Smith. 

ABACA:  The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See Manila hemp under Manila. 

ABACINATE:  To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes. [R.] 

ABACINATION:  The act of abacinating. [R.] 

ABACISCUS:  One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an abaculus. 

ABACIST:  One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator. 

ABACK:  Backward against the mast;-said of the sails when pressed by the wind. Totten. To be taken aback. (a) To be driven backward against the mast; -- said of the sails, also of the ship when the sails are thus driven. (b) To be suddenly checked, baffled, or discomfited. Dickens. 

ABACK:  An abacus. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

ABACTINAL:  Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal. "The aboral or abactinal area." L. Agassiz. 

ABACTION:  Stealing cattle on a large scale. [Obs.] 

ABACTOR:  One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or droves. [Obs.] 

ABACULUS:  A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements. Fairholt. 

ABADA:  The rhinoceros. [Obs.] Purchas. 

ABAFT:  Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. Abaft the beam. See under Beam. 

ABAFT:  Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft. 

ABAISANCE:  Obeisance. [Obs.] Jonson. 

ABAISER:  Ivory black or animal charcoal. Weale. 

ABAIST:  Abashed; confounded; discomfited. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ABALIENATE:  To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.  2. To estrange; to withdraw. [Obs.]  3. To cause alienation of (mind). Sandys. 

ABALIENATION:  The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement. [Obs.] 

ABALONE:  A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear. Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging closely to the rocks. 

ABANDON:  To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured against.  Syn.  -- To give up; yield; forego; cede; surrender; resign; abdicate; quit; relinquish; renounce; desert; forsake; leave; retire; withdraw from.  -- To Abandon, Desert, Forsake. These words agree in representing a person as giving up or leaving some object, but differ as to the mode of doing it. The distinctive sense of abandon is that of giving up a thing absolutely and finally; as, to abandon one's friends, places, opinions, good or evil habits, a hopeless enterprise, a shipwrecked vessel. Abandon is more widely applicable than forsake or desert. The Latin original of desert appears to have been originally applied to the case of deserters from military service. Hence, the verb, when used of persons in the active voice, has usually or always a bad sense, implying some breach of fidelity, honor, etc., the leaving of something which the person should rightfully stand by and support; as, to desert one's colors, to desert one's post, to desert one's principles or duty. When used in the passive, the sense is not necessarily bad; as, the fields were deserted, a deserted village, deserted halls. Forsake implies the breaking off of previous habit, association, personal connection, or that the thing left had been familiar or frequented; as, to forsake old friends, to forsake the paths of rectitude, the blood forsook his cheeks. It may be used either in a good or in a bad sense. 

ABANDON:  Abandonment; relinquishment. [Obs.] 

ABANDON:  A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease. 

ABANDONEDLY:  Unrestrainedly. 

ABANDONEE:  One to whom anything is legally abandoned. 

ABANDONER:  One who abandons. Beau. & Fl. 

ABANDONMENT:  The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril insured against.  3. (Com. Law)  (a) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to mill site, etc. (b) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.  4. Careless freedom or ease; abandon. [R.] Carlyle. 

ABANDUM:  Anything forfeited or confiscated. 

ABANET:  See Abnet. 

ABANGA:  A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.  ABANNATION; ABANNITION Ab`an*na"tion, Ab`an*nition, n. Etym: [LL. abannatio; ad + LL. bannire to banish.] (Old Law)  Banishment. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ABARTICULATION:  Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of free motion in the joint; diarthrosis. Coxe. 

ABASED:  Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the wings turned downward towards the point of the shield. 

ABASEDLY:  Abjectly; downcastly. 

ABASEMENT:  The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of being abased or humbled; humiliation. 

ABASER:  He who, or that which, abases. 

ABASH:  To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit. Abashed, the devil stood, And felt how awful goodness is. Milton. He was a man whom no check could abash. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To confuse; confound; disconcert; shame.  -- To Abash, Confuse, Confound. Abash is a stronger word than confuse, but not so strong as confound. We are abashed when struck either with sudden shame or with a humbling sense of inferiority; as, Peter was abashed in the presence of those who are greatly his superiors. We are confused when, from some unexpected or startling occurrence, we lose clearness of thought and self-possession. Thus, a witness is often confused by a severe cross-examination; a timid person is apt to be confused in entering a room full of strangers. We are confounded when our minds are overwhelmed, as it were, by something wholly unexpected, amazing, dreadful, etc., so that we have nothing to say. Thus, a criminal is usually confounded at the discovery of his guilt. Satan stood Awhile as mute, confounded what to say. Milton. 

ABASHEDLY:  In an abashed manner. 

ABASHMENT:  The state of being abashed; confusion from shame. 

ABASIA:  Inability to coördinate muscular actions properly in walking. - - A*ba"sic (#), a.  ABASSI; ABASSIS A*bas"si, A*bas"sis, n. Etym: [Ar.& Per. abasi, belonging to Abas (a king of Persia).]  A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents. 

ABATABLE:  Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance. 

ABATE:  (a) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with; as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ. (b) (Eng. Law) To diminish; to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in proportion, upon a deficiency of assets. To abate a tax, to remit it either wholly or in part. 

ABATE:  Abatement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ABATEMENT:  A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.  4. (Law)  The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold after the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee. Blackstone. Defense in abatement, Plea in abatement, (Law), plea to the effect that from some formal defect (e.g. misnomer, want of jurisdiction) the proceedings should be abated. 

ABATER:  One who, or that which, abates.  ABATIS; ABATTIS Ab"a*tis, Aba"t*tis, n. Etym: [F. abatis, abattis, mass of things beaten or cut down, fr. abattre. See Abate.] (Fort.)  A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy. 

ABATISED:  Provided with an abatis. 

ABATOR:  (a) One who abates a nuisance. (b) A person who, without right, enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee. Blackstone. 

ABATTOIR:  A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc. 

ABATURE:  Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing through them. Crabb. 

ABATVOIX:  The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum. 

ABAWED:  Astonished; abashed. [Obs.] Chaucer.  ABAXIAL; ABAXILE Ab*ax"i*al, Ab*ax"ile, a. Etym: [L. ab + axis axle.] (Bot.)  Away from the axis or central line; eccentric. Balfour. 

ABAY:  Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay. [Obs.] 

ABB:  Among weaves, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for the abb. 

ABBA:  Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops to the patriarch. 

ABBACY:  The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot. 

ABBATIAL:  Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights. 

ABBATICAL:  Abbatial. [Obs.] 

ABBE:  The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.  Note: * After the 16th century, the name was given, in social parlance, to candidates for some priory or abbey in the gift of the crown. Many of these aspirants became well known in literary and fashionable life. By further extension, the name came to be applied to unbeneficed secular ecclesiastics generally. Littré. 

ABBESS:  A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have over the monks. See Abbey. 

ABBOTSHIP:  The state or office of an abbot. 

ABBREVIATE:  To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction. 

ABBREVIATE:  Having one part relatively shorter than another or than the ordinary type. 

ABBREVIATE:  An abridgment. [Obs.] Elyot. 

ABBREVIATED:  Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate. 

ABBREVIATION:  One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing it respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers. Moore. 

ABBREVIATORY:  Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging. 

ABBREVIATURE:  See Abb.  A B C A B C".  1. The first three letters of the alphabet, used for the whole alphabet.  2. A primer for teaching the alphabet and first elements of reading. [Obs.]  3. The simplest rudiments of any subject; as, the A B C of finance. A B C book, a primer. Shak. 

ABDAL:  A religious devotee or dervish in Persia. 

ABDERIAN:  Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment. 

ABDERITE:  An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace. The Abderite, Democritus, the Laughing Philosopher. 

ABDEST:  Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a Mohammedan rite. Heyse. 

ABDICABLE:  Capable of being abdicated. 

ABDICANT:  Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of. Monks abdicant of their orders. Whitlock. 

ABDICANT:  One who abdicates. Smart. 

ABDICATE:  To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child; to disown; to disinherit.  Syn.  -- To give up; quit; vacate; relinquish; forsake; abandon; resign; renounce; desert.  -- To Abdicate, Resign. Abdicate commonly expresses the act of a monarch in voluntary and formally yielding up sovereign authority; as, to abdicate the government. Resign is applied to the act of any person, high or low, who gives back an office or trust into the hands of him who conferred it. Thus, a minister resigns, a military officer resigns, a clerk resigns. The expression, "The king resigned his crown," sometimes occurs in our later literature, implying that he held it from his people.  -- There are other senses of resign which are not here brought into view. 

ABDICATE:  To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high office or dignity. Though a king may abdicate for his own person, he cannot abdicate for the monarchy. Burke. 

ABDICATION:  The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office, dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciation of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power, authority. 

ABDICATIVE:  Causing, or implying, abdication. [R.] Bailey. 

ABDICATOR:  One who abdicates. 

ABDITIVE:  Having the quality of hiding. [R.] Bailey. 

ABDITORY:  A place for hiding or preserving articles of value. Cowell. 

ABDOMEN:  The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and the pelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by the peritoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. In man, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and the commencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelvic cavity.  2. (Zoöl.)  The posterior section of the body, behind the thorax, in insects, crustaceans, and other Arthropoda. 

ABDOMINAL:  Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as, abdominal fishes. Abdominal ring (Anat.), a fancied ringlike opening on each side of the abdomen, external and superior to the pubes; -- called also inguinal ring. 

ABDOMINAL:  A fish of the group Abdominales. 

ABDOMINALES:  A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, and many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behind the pectorals. 

ABDOMINALIA:  A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages. 

ABDOMINOSCOPY:  Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease. 

ABDOMINOTHORACIC:  Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest. 

ABDOMINOUS:  Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied. Gorgonius sits, abdominous and wan, Like a fat squab upon a Chinese fan. Cowper. 

ABDUCE:  To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different part. [Obs.] If we abduce the eye unto either corner, the object will not duplicate. Sir T. Browne. 

ABDUCTION:  The movement which separates a limb or other part from the axis, or middle line, of the body.  3. (Law)  The wrongful, and usually the forcible, carrying off of a human being; as, the abduction of a child, the abduction of an heiress.  4. (Logic)  A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is evident, but the minor is only probable. 

ABDUCTOR:  A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the median line of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eye outward. 

ABEAM:  On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side. 

ABEARANCE:  Behavior. [Obs.] Blackstone. 

ABEARING:  Behavior. [Obs.] Sir. T. More. 

ABECEDARIAN:  Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet; alphabetic; hence, rudimentary. Abecedarian psalms, hymns, etc., compositions in which (like the 119th psalm in Hebrew) distinct portions or verses commence with successive letters of the alphabet. Hook. 

ABECEDARY:  A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything. [R.] Fuller. 

ABEGGE:  Same as Aby. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ABELE:  The white polar (Populus alba). Six abeles i' the churchyard grow. Mrs. Browning.  ABELIAN; ABELITE; ABELONIAN A*bel"i*an, A"bel*ite, A`bel*o"ni*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)  One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St. Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence, after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel. 

ABELMOSK:  An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus- moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes called musk mallow.  ABER-DE-VINE Ab`er-de-vine", n. (Zoöl.)  The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green and yellow finch, related to the goldfinch. 

ABERR:  To wander; to stray. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  ABERRANCE; ABERRANCY Ab*er"rance, Ab*er"ran*cy, n.  State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way; deviation from truth, rectitude, etc. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.), the deviation of a curve from a circular form. 

ABERRANT:  See Aberr.]  1. Wandering; straying from the right way.  2. (Biol.)  Deviating from the ordinary or natural type; exceptional; abnormal. The more aberrant any form is, the greater must have been the number of connecting forms which, on my theory, have been exterminated. Darwin. 

ABERRATE:  To go astray; to diverge. [R.] Their own defective and aberrating vision. De Quincey. 

ABERRATION:  A small periodical change of position in the stars and other heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light and the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when the observer's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and dairy or diurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting when greatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''. Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and the motion of the planet relative to the earth.  4. (Opt.)  The convergence to different foci, by a lens or mirror, of rays of light emanating from one and the same point, or the deviation of such rays from a single focus; called spherical aberration, when due to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such form giving different foci for central and marginal rays; and chromatic aberration, when due to different refrangibilities of the colored rays of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.  5. (Physiol.)  The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not appropriate for it.  6. (Law)  The producing of an unintended effect by the glancing of an instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.  Syn.  -- Insanity; lunacy; madness; derangement; alienation; mania; dementia; hallucination; illusion; delusion. See Insanity. 

ABERRATIONAL:  Characterized by aberration. 

ABERUNCATE:  To weed out. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ABERUNCATOR:  A weeding machine. 

ABET:  To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commission of an offense.  Syn.  -- To incite; instigate; set on; egg on; foment; advocate; countenance; encourage; second; uphold; aid; assist; support; sustain; back; connive at. 

ABET:  Act of abetting; aid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ABETMENT:  The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc. 

ABETTAL:  Abetment. [R.]  ABETTER; ABETTOR A*bet"ter, A*bet*tor, n.  One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.  Note: The form abettor is the legal term and also in general use.  Syn.  -- Abettor, Accessory, Accomplice. These words denote different degrees of complicity in some deed or crime. An abettor is one who incites or encourages to the act, without sharing in its performance. An accessory supposes a principal offender. One who is neither the chief actor in an offense, nor present at its performance, but accedes to or becomes involved in its guilt, either by some previous or subsequent act, as of instigating, encouraging, aiding, or concealing, etc., is an accessory. An accomplice is one who participates in the commission of an offense, whether as principal or accessory. Thus in treason, there are no abettors or accessories, but all are held to be principals or accomplices. 

ABEVACUATION:  A partial evacuation. Mayne. 

ABEYANCE:  Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.  Note: When there is no person in existence in whom an inheritance (or a dignity) can vest, it is said to be in abeyance, that is, in expectation; the law considering it as always potentially existing, and ready to vest whenever a proper owner appears. Blackstone.  2. Suspension; temporary suppression. Keeping the sympathies of love and admiration in a dormant state, or state of abeyance. De Quincey. 

ABEYANCY:  Abeyance. [R.] Hawthorne. 

ABEYANT:  Being in a state of abeyance. 

ABGEORDNETENHAUS:  See Legislature, Austria, Prussia. 

ABHAL:  The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies. 

ABHOMINABLE:  Abominable.  Note: [A false orthography anciently used; h was foisted into various words; hence abholish, for abolish, etc.] This is abhominable, which he [Don Armado] would call abominable. Shak. Love's Labor's Lost, v. 1. 

ABHOMINAL:  Inhuman. [Obs.] Fuller. 

ABHOR:  To protest against; to reject solemnly. [Obs.] I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul Refuse you for my judge. Shak.  Syn.  -- To hate; detest; loathe; abominate. See Hate. 

ABHOR:  To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary or averse; -- with from. [Obs.] "To abhor from those vices." Udall. Which is utterly abhorring from the end of all law. Milton. 

ABHORRENCE:  Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike. 

ABHORRENCY:  Abhorrence. [Obs.] Locke. 

ABHORRENTLY:  With abhorrence. 

ABHORRER:  One who abhors. Hume. 

ABHORRIBLE:  Detestable. [R.] 

ABIB:  The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity this month was called Nisan. Kitto. 

ABIDANCE:  The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with). The Christians had no longer abidance in the holy hill of Palestine. Fuller. A judicious abidance by rules. Helps. 

ABIDE:  To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for. Dearly I abide that boast so vain. Milton. 

ABIDING:  Continuing; lasting. 

ABIDINGLY:  Permanently. Carlyle. 

ABIES:  A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to this genus. 

ABIETENE:  A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nut pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California. 

ABIETIC:  Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abietic acid, called also sylvic acid. Watts.  ABIETIN; ABIETINE Ab"i*e*tin, Ab"i*e*tine, n. Etym: [See Abietene.] (Chem.)  A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam. It is without taste or smell, is insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol (especially at the boiling point), in strong acetic acid, and in ether. Watts. 

ABIETINIC:  Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid. 

ABIETITE:  A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of the common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata). Eng. Cyc. 

ABIGAIL:  A lady's waiting-maid. Pepys. Her abigail reported that Mrs. Gutheridge had a set of night curls for sleeping in. Leslie. 

ABILIMENT:  Habiliment. [Obs.] 

ABILITY:  The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity; skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill, resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent. Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined to send relief unto the brethren. Acts xi. 29. Natural abilities are like natural plants, that need pruning by study. Bacon. The public men of England, with much of a peculiar kind of ability. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Capacity; talent; cleverness; faculty; capability; efficiency; aptitude; aptness; address; dexterity; skill. Ability, Capacity. These words come into comparison when applied to the higher intellectual powers. Ability has reference to the active exercise of our faculties. It implies not only native vigor of mind, but that ease and promptitude of execution which arise from mental training. Thus, we speak of the ability with which a book is written, an argument maintained, a negotiation carried on, etc. It always something to be done, and the power of doing it. Capacity has reference to the receptive powers. In its higher exercises it supposes great quickness of apprehension and breadth of intellect, with an uncommon aptitude for acquiring and retaining knowledge. Hence it carries with it the idea of resources and undeveloped power. Thus we speak of the extraordinary capacity of such men as Lord Bacon, Blaise Pascal, and Edmund Burke. "Capacity," says H. Taylor, "is requisite to devise, and ability to execute, a great enterprise." The word abilities, in the plural, embraces both these qualities, and denotes high mental endowments.  ABIME; ABYME A*bime" or A*byme", n. Etym: [F. abîme. See Abysm.]  A abyss. [Obs.] 

ABIOGENESIS:  The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed to biogenesis. I shall call the . . . doctrine that living matter may be produced by not living matter, the hypothesis of abiogenesis. Huxley, 1870. 

ABIOGENETIC:  Of or pertaining to abiogenesis. Ab`i*o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ABIOGENIST:  One who believes that life can be produced independently of antecedent. Huxley. 

ABIOGENOUS:  Produced by spontaneous generation. 

ABIOGENY:  Same as Abiogenesis. 

ABIOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to the study of inanimate things. 

ABIRRITANT:  A medicine that diminishes irritation. 

ABIRRITATE:  To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate. 

ABIRRITATION:  A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation; debility; want of strength; asthenia. 

ABIRRITATIVE:  Characterized by abirritation or debility. 

ABIT:  3d sing. pres. of Abide. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ABJECT:  To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; to debase. [Obs.] Donne. 

ABJECT:  A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a castaway. [Obs.] Shall these abjects, these victims, these outcasts, know any thing of pleasure I. Taylor. 

ABJECTEDNESS:  A very abject or low condition; abjectness. [R.] Boyle. 

ABJECTLY:  Meanly; servilely. 

ABJECTNESS:  The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility. Grew. 

ABJUDGE:  To take away by judicial decision. [R.] 

ABJUDICATE:  To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge. [Obs.] Ash. 

ABJUDICATION:  Rejection by judicial sentence. [R.] Knowles. 

ABJUGATE:  To unyoke. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ABJUNCTIVE:  Exceptional. [R.] It is this power which leads on from the accidental and abjunctive to the universal. I. Taylor. 

ABJURATORY:  Containing abjuration. 

ABJURE:  To renounce on oath. Bp. Burnet. 

ABJUREMENT:  Renunciation. [R.] 

ABJURER:  One who abjures. 

ABLACTATE:  To wean. [R.] Bailey. 

ABLACTATION:  The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting by approach. 

ABLAQUEATE:  To lay bare, as the roots of a tree. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ABLAQUEATION:  The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose them to the air and water. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

ABLASTEMIC:  Non-germinal. 

ABLATION:  Extirpation. Dunglison.  3. (Geol.)  Wearing away; superficial waste. Tyndall. 

ABLATITIOUS:  Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force. Sir J. Herschel. 

ABLATIVE:  Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some other languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal, separation, or taking away. 

ABLATIVE:  The ablative case. ablative absolute, a construction in Latin, in which a noun in the ablative case has a participle (either expressed or implied), agreeing with it in gender, number, and case, both words forming a clause by themselves and being unconnected, grammatically, with the rest of the sentence; as, Tarquinio regnante, Pythagoras venit, i. e., Tarquinius reigning, Pythagoras came. 

ABLAUT:  The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation; as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung. Earle. 

ABLE:  Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able to inherit or devise property.  Note: Able for, is Scotticism. "Hardly able for such a march." Robertson.  Syn.  -- Competent; qualified; fitted; efficient; effective; capable; skillful; clever; vigorous; powerful. 

ABLE:  An adjective suffix now usually in a passive sense; able to be; fit to be; expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense; as, movable, able to be moved; amendable, able to be amended; blamable, fit to be blamed; salable.  Note: The form ible is used in the same sense.  Note: It is difficult to say when we are not to use -able instead of -ible. "Yet a rule may be laid down as to when we are to use it. To all verbs, then, from the Anglo-Saxon, to all based on the uncorrupted infinitival stems of Latin verbs of the first conjugation, and to all substantives, whencesoever sprung, we annex - able only." Fitzed. Hall.  ABLE-BODIED A`ble-bod"ied, a.  Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust. "Able-bodied vagrant." Froude.  -- A`ble-bod"ied*ness, n.. 

ABLEGATE:  To send abroad. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ABLEGATE:  A representative of the pope charged with important commissions in foreign countries, one of his duties being to bring to a newly named cardinal his insignia of office. 

ABLEGATION:  The act of sending abroad. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  ABLE-MINDED A`ble-mind"ed, a.  Having much intellectual power.  -- A`ble-mind"ed*ness, n. 

ABLENESS:  Ability of body or mind; force; vigor. [Obs. or R.] 

ABLEPSY:  Blindness. [R.] Urquhart. 

ABLER:  comp. of Able.  -- A"blest, a.,  superl. of Able.  ABLET; ABLEN Ab"let, Ab"len Etym: [F. ablet, ablette, a dim. fr. LL. abula, for albula, dim. of albus white. Cf. Abele.] (Zoöl.)  A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak. 

ABLIGATE:  To tie up so as to hinder from. [Obs.] 

ABLIGURITION:  Prodigal expense for food. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ABLINS:  Perhaps. [Scot.] 

ABLOOM:  In or into bloom; in a blooming state. Masson. 

ABLUDE:  To be unlike; to differ. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ABLUENT:  Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.  -- n. (Med.)  A detergent. 

ABLUSH:  Blushing; ruddy. 

ABLUTION:  A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash the priest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then, as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunk by the priest. 

ABLUTIONARY:  Pertaining to ablution. 

ABLUVION:  That which is washed off. [R.] Dwight. 

ABLY:  In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned, said.  -ABLY -a*bly(#).  A suffix composed of -able and the adverbial suffix -ly; as, favorably. 

ABNEGATE:  To deny and reject; to abjure. Sir E. Sandys. Farrar. 

ABNEGATION:  a denial; a renunciation. With abnegation of God, of his honor, and of religion, they may retain the friendship of the court. Knox. 

ABNEGATIVE:  Denying; renouncing; negative. [R.] Clarke. 

ABNEGATOR:  One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything. [R.] 

ABNET:  The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer. 

ABNODATE:  To clear (tress) from knots. [R.] Blount. 

ABNODATION:  The act of cutting away the knots of trees. [R.] Crabb. 

ABNORMAL:  Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type; anomalous; irregular. "That deviating from the type; anomalous; irregular. " Froude. 

ABNORMALLY:  In an abnormal manner; irregularly. Darwin. 

ABNORMITY:  Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity. "An abnormity . . . like a calf born with two heads." Mrs. Whitney. 

ABNORMOUS:  Abnormal; irregular. Hallam. A character of a more abnormous cast than his equally suspected coadjutor. State Trials. 

ABOARD:  On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within a railway car.  2. Alongside; as, close aboard. Naut.: To fall aboard of, to strike a ship's side; to fall foul of.  -- To haul the tacks aboard, to set the courses.  -- To keep the land aboard, to hug the shore.  -- To lay (a ship) aboard, to place one's own ship close alongside of (a ship) for fighting. 

ABODANCE:  An omen; a portending. [Obs.] 

ABODE:  of Abide. 

ABODE:  An omen. [Obs.] High-thundering Juno's husband stirs my spirit with true abodes. Chapman. 

ABODE:  To bode; to foreshow. [Obs.] Shak. 

ABODE:  To be ominous. [Obs.] Dryden. 

ABODEMENT:  A foreboding; an omen. [Obs.] "Abodements must not now affright us." Shak. 

ABODING:  A foreboding. [Obs.] 

ABOLISHABLE:  Capable of being abolished. 

ABOLISHER:  One who abolishes. 

ABOLISHMENT:  The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction. Hooker. 

ABOLITION:  The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; an annulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition of slavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees, ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.  Note: The application of this word to persons is now unusual or obsolete 

ABOLITIONISM:  The principles or measures of abolitionists. Wilberforce. 

ABOLITIONIST:  A person who favors the abolition of any institution, especially negro slavery. 

ABOLITIONIZE:  To imbue with the principles of abolitionism. [R.] Bartlett. 

ABOMA:  A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).  ABOMASUM; ABOMASUS Ab`o*ma"sum, Ab`o*ma"sus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. ab + omasum (a Celtic word.] (Anat.)  The fourth or digestive stomach of a ruminant, which leads from the third stomach omasum. See Ruminantia. 

ABOMINABLENESS:  The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness. Bentley. 

ABOMINABLY:  In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably. 

ABOMINATE:  To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, as if with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.  Syn.  -- To hate; abhor; loathe; detest. See Hate. 

ABOON:  and adv. Above. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Aboon the pass of Bally-Brough. Sir W. Scott. The ceiling fair that rose aboon. J. R. Drake. 

ABORAL:  Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth. 

ABORD:  Manner of approaching or accosting; address. Chesterfield. 

ABORD:  To approach; to accost. [Obs.] Digby. 

ABORIGINALITY:  The quality of being aboriginal. Westm. Rev. 

ABORIGINALLY:  Primarily. 

ABORSEMENT:  Abortment; abortion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ABORSIVE:  Abortive. [Obs.] Fuller. 

ABORT:  To become checked in normal development, so as either to remain rudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile. 

ABORTED:  Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normal development at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches. The eyes of the cirripeds are more or less aborted in their mature state. Owen. 

ABORTICIDE:  The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide. 

ABORTIFACIENT:  Producing miscarriage.  -- n.  A drug or an agent that causes premature delivery. 

ABORTION:  Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains an imperfect formation or is absorbed.  4. Any fruit or produce that does not come to maturity, or anything which in its progress, before it is matured or perfect; a complete failure; as, his attempt. proved an abortiori. 

ABORTIONAL:  Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive. Carlyle. 

ABORTIONIST:  One who procures abortion or miscarriage. 

ABORTIVE:  Imperfectly formed or developed; rudimentary; sterile; as, an abortive organ, stamen, ovule, etc.  6. (Med.) (a) Causing abortion; as, abortive medicines. Parr. (b) Cutting short; as, abortive treatment of typhoid fever. 

ABORTIVELY:  In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly. 

ABORTIVENESS:  The quality of being abortive. 

ABORTMENT:  Abortion. [Obs.] 

ABOUGHT:  of Aby. [Obs.] 

ABOUT:  On the point or verge of; going; in act of. Paul was now aboutto open his mouth. Acts xviii. 14.  7. Concerning; with regard to; on account of; touching. "To treat about thy ransom." Milton. She must have her way about Sarah. Trollope. 

ABOUT:  The largest hammer used by smiths. Weale. 

ABOVEBOARD:  Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick, concealment, or deception. "Fair and aboveboard." Burke.  Note: This expression is said by Johnson to have been borrowed from gamesters, who, when they change their cards, put their hands under the table.  ABOVE-CITED A*bove"-cit`ed, a.  Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing. 

ABOVEDECK:  On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice. Smart.  ABOVE-MENTIONED; ABOVE-NAMED A*bove"-men`tioned, A*bove"-named`(#), a.  Mentioned or named before; aforesaid. 

ABOVESAID:  Mentioned or recited before. 

ABOX:  Braced aback. 

ABRA:  A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa; the mouth of a cañon. [Southwestern U. S.] 

ABRACADABRA:  A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in the figure. Worn on an amulet it was supposed to ward off fever. At present the word is used chiefly in jest to denote something without meaning; jargon. 

ABRADANT:  A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass, etc. 

ABRADE:  To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to abrade rocks. Lyell. 

ABRADE:  Same as Abraid. [Obs.] 

ABRAHAMIC:  Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrahamic covenant.  ABRAHAMITIC; ABRAHAMITICAL A`bra*ham*it"ic, A`bra*ham*it*ic*al(#), a.  Relating to the patriarch Abraham.  ABRAHAM-MAN; ABRAM-MAN A"bra*ham-man`(#) or A"bram-man`(#), n. Etym: [Possibly in allusion to the parable of the beggar Lazarus in Luke xvi. Murray (New Eng. Dict. ).]  One of a set of vagabonds who formerly roamed through England, feigning lunacy for the sake of obtaining alms. Nares. To sham Abraham, to feign sickness. Goldsmith. 

ABRAID:  To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ABRANCHIAL:  Abranchiate. 

ABRANCHIATA:  A group of annelids, so called because the species composing it have no special organs of respiration. 

ABRANCHIATE:  Without gills. 

ABRASE:  Rubbed smooth. [Obs.] "An abrase table." B. Jonson. 

ABRASION:  A superficial excoriation, with loss of substance under the form of small shreds. Dunglison. 

ABRASIVE:  Producing abrasion. Ure.  ABRAUM; ABRAUM SALTS A*braum" or A*braum" salts, n. Etym: [Ger., fr. abräumen to remove.]  A red ocher used to darken mahogany and for making chloride of potassium. 

ABRAXAS:  A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among the ancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved. 

ABRAY:  See Abraid. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ABREACTION:  See Catharsis, below. 

ABREAST:  Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with the vessel's beam; -- with of.  3. Up to a certain level or line; equally advanced; as, to keep abreast of [or with] the present state of science.  4. At the same time; simultaneously. [Obs.] Abreast therewith began a convocation. Fuller. 

ABREGGE:  See Abridge. [Obs.] 

ABRENOUNCE:  To renounce. [Obs.] "They abrenounce and cast them off." Latimer. 

ABRENUNCIATION:  Absolute renunciation or repudiation. [Obs.] An abrenunciation of that truth which he so long had professed, and still believed. Fuller. 

ABREPTION:  A snatching away. [Obs.] 

ABREUVOIR:  The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled with mortar. Gwilt. 

ABRICOCK:  See Apricot. [Obs.] 

ABRIDGER:  One who abridges. 

ABROACH:  To set abroach; to let out, as liquor; to broach; to tap. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ABROGABLE:  Capable of being abrogated. 

ABROGATE:  Abrogated; abolished. [Obs.] Latimer. 

ABROGATION:  The act of abrogating; repeal by authority. Hume. 

ABROGATIVE:  Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law. 

ABROGATOR:  One who repeals by authority. 

ABROOD:  In the act of brooding. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft. 

ABROOK:  To brook; to endure. [Obs.] Shak. 

ABRUPT:  Suddenly terminating, as if cut off. Gray.  Syn.  -- Sudden; unexpected; hasty; rough; curt; unceremonious; rugged; blunt; disconnected; broken. 

ABRUPT:  An abrupt place. [Poetic] "Over the vast abrupt." Milton. 

ABRUPT:  To tear off or asunder. [Obs.] "Till death abrupts them." Sir T. Browne. 

ABRUPTION:  A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies. Woodward. 

ABSCESS:  A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organ of the body, the result of a morbid process. Cold abscess, an abscess of slow formation, unattended with the pain and heat characteristic of ordinary abscesses, and lasting for years without exhibiting any tendency towards healing; a chronic abscess. 

ABSCESSION:  A separating; removal; also, an abscess. [Obs.] Gauden. Barrough. 

ABSCIND:  To cut off. [R.] "Two syllables . . . abscinded from the rest." Johnson. 

ABSCISION:  See Abscission. 

ABSCISS:  See Abscissa. 

ABSCISSA:  One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of a curve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coördinate axes.  Note: When referred to two intersecting axes, one of them called the axis of abscissas, or of X, and the other the axis of ordinates, or of Y, the abscissa of the point is the distance cut off from the axis of X by a line drawn through it and parallel to the axis of Y. When a point in space is referred to three axes having a common intersection, the abscissa may be the distance measured parallel to either of them, from the point to the plane of the other two axes. Abscissas and ordinates taken together are called coördinates.  -- OX or PY is the abscissa of the point P of the curve, OY or PX its ordinate, the intersecting lines OX and OY being the axes of abscissas and ordinates respectively, and the point O their origin. 

ABSCISSION:  A figure of speech employed when a speaker having begun to say a thing stops abruptly: thus, "He is a man of so much honor and candor, and of such generosity -- but I need say no more." 

ABSCOND:  To hide; to conceal. [Obs.] Bentley. 

ABSCONDENCE:  Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding. [R.] Phillips. 

ABSCONDER:  One who absconds. 

ABSENTANEOUS:  Pertaining to absence. [Obs.] 

ABSENTATION:  The act of absenting one's self. Sir W. Hamilton. 

ABSENTEE:  One who absents himself from his country, office, post, or duty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country or district than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irish absentee. Macaulay. 

ABSENTEEISM:  The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice of absenting one's self from the country or district where one's estate is situated. 

ABSENTER:  One who absents one's self. 

ABSENTLY:  In an absent or abstracted manner. 

ABSENTMENT:  The state of being absent; withdrawal. [R.] Barrow.  ABSENT-MINDED Ab`sent-mind"ed(#), a.  Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied.  -- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ness, n.  -- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ly, adv. 

ABSENTNESS:  The quality of being absent-minded. H. Miller.  ABSEY-BOOK Ab"sey-book`(#), n.  An A-B-C book; a primer. [Obs.] Shak. 

ABSINTHATE:  A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positive radical.  ABSINTHE; ABSINTH Ab"sinthe`, Ab"sinth`, n. Etym: [F. absinthe. See Absinthium.]  1. The plant absinthium or common wormwood.  2. A strong spirituous liqueur made from wormwood and brandy or alcohol. 

ABSINTHIAL:  Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian. 

ABSINTHIAN:  Of the nature of wormwood. "Absinthian bitterness." T. Randolph. 

ABSINTHIATE:  To impregnate with wormwood. 

ABSINTHIATED:  Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine. 

ABSINTHIC:  Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it. 

ABSINTHIN:  The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). Watts. 

ABSINTHISM:  The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use of absinth. 

ABSINTHIUM:  The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitter plant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood. 

ABSIS:  See Apsis. 

ABSIST:  To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist. [Obs.] Raleigh. 

ABSISTENCE:  A standing aloof. [Obs.] 

ABSOLUTE:  Pure; unmixed; as, absolute alcohol.  9. (Gram.)  Not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence in government; as, the case absolute. See Ablative absolute, under Ablative. Absolute curvature (Geom.), that curvature of a curve of double curvature, which is measured in the osculating plane of the curve.  -- Absolute equation (Astron.), the sum of the optic and eccentric equations.  -- Absolute space (Physics), space considered without relation to material limits or objects.  -- Absolute terms. (Alg.), such as are known, or which do not contain the unknown quantity. Davies & Peck.  -- Absolute temperature (Physics), the temperature as measured on a scale determined by certain general thermo-dynamic principles, and reckoned from the absolute zero.  -- Absolute zero (Physics), the be ginning, or zero point, in the scale of absolute temperature. It is equivalent to -273º centigrade or -459.4º Fahrenheit.  Syn.  -- Positive; peremptory; certain; unconditional; unlimited; unrestricted; unqualified; arbitrary; despotic; autocratic. 

ABSOLUTE:  In a plane, the two imaginary circular points at infinity; in space of three dimensions, the imaginary circle at infinity. 

ABSOLUTELY:  In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly; positively. 

ABSOLUTENESS:  The quality of being absolute; independence of everything extraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality; positiveness. 

ABSOLUTION:  An acquittal, or sentence of a judge declaring and accused person innocent. [Obs.]  3. (R. C. Ch.)  The exercise of priestly jurisdiction in the sacrament of penance, by which Catholics believe the sins of the truly penitent are forgiven.  Note: In the English and other Protestant churches, this act regarded as simply declaratory, not as imparting forgiveness.  4. (Eccl.)  An absolving from ecclesiastical penalties, -- for example, excommunication. P. Cyc.  5. The form of words by which a penitent is absolved. Shipley.  6. Delivery, in speech. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Absolution day (R. C. Ch.), Tuesday before Easter. 

ABSOLUTISM:  Doctrine of absolute decrees. Ash. 

ABSOLUTIST:  One who believes that it is possible to realize a cognition or concept of the absolute. Sir. W. Hamilton. 

ABSOLUTIST:  Of or pertaining to absolutism; arbitrary; despotic; as, absolutist principles. 

ABSOLUTISTIC:  Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist. 

ABSOLUTORY:  Serving to absolve; absolving. "An absolutory sentence." Ayliffe. 

ABSOLVABLE:  That may be absolved. 

ABSOLVATORY:  Conferring absolution; absolutory. 

ABSOLVENT:  Absolving. [R.] Carlyle. 

ABSOLVENT:  An absolver. [R.] Hobbes. 

ABSOLVER:  One who absolves. Macaulay. 

ABSONANT:  Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant. "Absonant to nature." Quarles. 

ABSONOUS:  Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous. [Obs.] "Absonous to our reason." Glanvill. 

ABSORBABILITY:  The state or quality of being absorbable. Graham (Chemistry). 

ABSORBABLE:  Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up. Kerr. 

ABSORBEDLY:  In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged. 

ABSORBENCY:  Absorptiveness. 

ABSORBENT:  Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive. Absorbent ground (Paint.), a ground prepared for a picture, chiefly with distemper, or water colors, by which the oil is absorbed, and a brilliancy is imparted to the colors. 

ABSORBENT:  Any substance which absorbs and neutralizes acid fluid in the stomach and bowels, as magnesia, chalk, etc.; also a substance e. g., iodine) which acts on the absorbent vessels so as to reduce enlarged and indurated parts.  3. pl. (Physiol.)  The vessels by which the processes of absorption are carried on, as the lymphatics in animals, the extremities of the roots in plants. 

ABSORBER:  One who, or that which, absorbs. 

ABSORBING:  Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit.  -- Ab*sorb"ing, adv. 

ABSORBITION:  Absorption. [Obs.] 

ABSORPT:  Absorbed. [Arcahic.] "Absorpt in care." Pope. 

ABSORPTION:  An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as, the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.  3. (Physiol.)  In living organisms, the process by which the materials of growth and nutrition are absorbed and conveyed to the tissues and organs.  4. Entire engrossment or occupation of the mind; as, absorption in some employment. 

ABSORPTIVE:  Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe. E. Darwin. 

ABSORPTIVENESS:  The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power. 

ABSORPTIVITY:  Absorptiveness. 

ABSQUATULATE:  To take one's self off; to decamp. [A jocular word. U. S.]  ABSQUE HOC Abs"que hoc  . Etym: [L., without this.] (Law) The technical words of denial used in traversing what has been alleged, and is repeated. 

ABSTAIN:  To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily, and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; -- with from. Not a few abstained from voting. Macaulay. Who abstains from meat that is not gaunt Shak.  Syn.  -- To refrain; forbear; withhold; deny one's self; give up; relinquish. 

ABSTAIN:  To hinder; to withhold. Whether he abstain men from marrying. Milton. 

ABSTAINER:  One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use of intoxicating liquors. 

ABSTEMIOUSNESS:  The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in the use of food and strong drinks. It expresses a greater degree of abstinence than temperance. 

ABSTENTION:  The act of abstaining; a holding aloof. Jer. Taylor. 

ABSTENTIOUS:  Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining. Farrar. 

ABSTERGE:  To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, to purge. [R.] Quincy. 

ABSTERGENT:  Serving to cleanse, detergent. 

ABSTERGENT:  A substance used in cleansing; a detergent; as, soap is an abstergent. 

ABSTERSE:  To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ABSTERSION:  Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging. The task of ablution and abstersion being performed. Sir W. Scott. 

ABSTERSIVE:  Cleansing; purging. Bacon. 

ABSTERSIVE:  Something cleansing. The strong abstersive of some heroic magistrate. Milton. 

ABSTERSIVENESS:  The quality of being abstersive. Fuller. 

ABSTINENCY:  Abstinence. [R.] 

ABSTINENT:  Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence of appetite; abstemious; continent; temperate. Beau. & Fl. 

ABSTINENT:  One of a sect who appeared in France and Spain in the 3d century. 

ABSTINENTLY:  With abstinence. 

ABSTORTED:  Wrested away. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ABSTRACT:  To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of a substance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this sense extract is now more generally used. 

ABSTRACT:  To perform the process of abstraction. [R.] I own myself able to abstract in one sense. Berkeley. 

ABSTRACT:  A powdered solid extract of a vegetable substance mixed with sugar of milk in such proportion that one part of the abstract represents two parts of the original substance. Abstract of title (Law), an epitome of the evidences of ownership.  Syn.  -- Abridgment; compendium; epitome; synopsis. See Abridgment. 

ABSTRACTEDLY:  In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind. 

ABSTRACTEDNESS:  The state of being abstracted; abstract character. 

ABSTRACTER:  One who abstracts, or makes an abstract. 

ABSTRACTION:  The act process of leaving out of consideration one or more properties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis. Thus, when the mind considers the form of a tree by itself, or the color of the leaves as separate from their size or figure, the act is called abstraction. So, also, when it considers whiteness, softness, virtue, existence, as separate from any particular objects.  Note: Abstraction is necessary to classification, by which things are arranged in genera and species. We separate in idea the qualities of certain objects, which are of the same kind, from others which are different, in each, and arrange the objects having the same properties in a class, or collected body. Abstraction is no positive act: it is simply the negative of attention. Sir W. Hamilton.  3. An idea or notion of an abstract, or theoretical nature; as, to fight for mere abstractions.  4. A separation from worldly objects; a recluse life; as, a hermit's abstraction.  5. Absence or absorption of mind; inattention to present objects.  6. The taking surreptitiously for one's own use part of the property of another; purloining. [Modern]  7. (Chem.)  A separation of volatile parts by the act of distillation. Nicholson. 

ABSTRACTIONAL:  Pertaining to abstraction. 

ABSTRACTIONIST:  An idealist. Emerson. 

ABSTRACTITIOUS:  Obtained from plants by distillation. [Obs.] Crabb. 

ABSTRACTIVE:  Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature. "The abstractive faculty." I. Taylor. 

ABSTRACTIVELY:  In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself. Feltham. 

ABSTRACTIVENESS:  The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property. 

ABSTRACTLY:  In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; by itself; as, matter abstractly considered. 

ABSTRACTNESS:  The quality of being abstract. "The abstractness of the ideas." Locke. 

ABSTRINGE:  To unbind. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ABSTRUDE:  To thrust away. [Obs.] Johnson. 

ABSTRUSELY:  In an abstruse manner. 

ABSTRUSENESS:  The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension. Boyle. 

ABSTRUSION:  The act of thrusting away. [R.] Ogilvie. 

ABSTRUSITY:  Abstruseness; that which is abstruse. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

ABSUME:  To consume gradually; to waste away. [Obs.] Boyle. 

ABSUMPTION:  Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ABSURD:  Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an absurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream. This proffer is absurd and reasonless. Shak. 'This phrase absurd to call a villain great. Pope. p. 9  Syn.  -- Foolish; irrational; ridiculous; preposterous; inconsistent; incongruous.  -- Absurd, Irrational, Foolish, Preposterous. Of these terms, irrational is the weakest, denoting that which is plainly inconsistent with the dictates of sound reason; as, an irrational course of life. Foolish rises higher, and implies either a perversion of that faculty, or an absolute weakness or fatuity of mind; as, foolish enterprises. Absurd rises still higher, denoting that which is plainly opposed to received notions of propriety and truth; as, an absurd man, project, opinion, story, argument, etc. Preposterous rises still higher, and supposes an absolute inversion in the order of things; or, in plain terms, a "putting of the cart before the horse;" as, a preposterous suggestion, preposterous conduct, a preposterous regulation or law. 

ABSURD:  An absurdity. [Obs.] Pope. 

ABSURDLY:  In an absurd manner. 

ABSURDNESS:  Absurdity. [R.] 

ABUNA:  The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church. 

ABUNDANCE:  An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty; profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth: -- strictly applicable to quantity only, but sometimes used of number. It is lamentable to remember what abundance of noble blood hath been shed with small benefit to the Christian state. Raleigh.  Syn.  -- Exuberance; plenteousness; plenty; copiousness; overflow; riches; affluence; wealth.  -- Abundance, Plenty, Exuberance. These words rise upon each other in expressing the idea of fullness. Plenty denotes a sufficiency to supply every want; as, plenty of food, plenty of money, etc. Abundance express more, and gives the idea of superfluity or excess; as, abundance of riches, an abundance of wit and humor; often, however, it only denotes plenty in a high degree. Exuberance rises still higher, and implies a bursting forth on every side, producing great superfluity or redundance; as, an exuberance of mirth, an exuberance of animal spirits, etc. 

ABUNDANT:  Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed by in, rarely by with. "Abundant in goodness and truth." Exod. xxxiv. 6. Abundant number (Math.), a number, the sum of whose aliquot parts exceeds the number itself. Thus, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, the aliquot parts of 12, make the number 16. This is opposed to a deficient number, as 14, whose aliquot parts are 1, 2, 7, the sum of which is 10; and to a perfect number, which is equal to the sum of its aliquot parts, as 6, whose aliquot parts are 1, 2., 3.  Syn.  -- Ample; plentiful; copious; plenteous; exuberant; overflowing; rich; teeming; profuse; bountiful; liberal. See Ample. 

ABUNDANTLY:  In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in large measure. 

ABURST:  In a bursting condition. 

ABUSABLE:  That may be abused. 

ABUSAGE:  Abuse. [Obs.] Whately (1634). 

ABUSEFUL:  Full of abuse; abusive. [R.] "Abuseful names." Bp. Barlow. 

ABUSER:  One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb]. 

ABUSION:  Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception; cheat. Chaucer. 

ABUSIVELY:  In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language. 

ABUSIVENESS:  The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violence to the person. Pick out mirth, like stones out of thy ground, Profaneness, filthiness, abusiveness. Herbert. 

ABUT:  To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet; -- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road. 

ABUTILON:  A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in the torrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indian mallow. 

ABUTTAL:  The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; a headland. Spelman. 

ABUTTER:  One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of a contiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river. 

ABUZZ:  In a buzz; buzzing. [Colloq.] Dickens.  ABY; ABYE A*by", A*bye", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Abought.] Etym: [AS. abycgan to pay for; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning out) + bycgan to buy. See Buy, and cf. Abide.]  1. To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to give satisfaction. [Obs.] Lest to thy peril thou aby it dear. Shak.  2. To endure; to abide. [Obs.] But nought that wanteth rest can long aby. Spenser. 

ABYSM:  An abyss; a gulf. "The abysm of hell." Shak. 

ABYSMAL:  Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending; profound. Geology gives one the same abysmal extent of time that astronomy does of space. Carlyle. 

ABYSMALLY:  To a fathomless depth; profoundly. "Abysmally ignorant." G. Eliot. 

ABYSS:  The center of an escutcheon.  Note: This word, in its leading uses, is associated with the cosmological notions of the Hebrews, having reference to a supposed illimitable mass of waters from which our earth sprung, and beneath whose profound depths the wicked were punished. Encyc. Brit. 

ABYSSAL:  Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable. Abyssal zone (Phys. Geog.), one of the belts or zones into which Sir E. Forbes divides the bottom of the sea in describing its plants, animals, etc. It is the one furthest from the shore, embracing all beyond one hundred fathoms deep. Hence, abyssal animals, plants, etc. 

ABYSSINIAN:  Of or pertaining to Abyssinia. Abyssinian gold, an alloy of 90.74 parts of copper and 8.33 parts of zink. Ure. 

ACACIA:  A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors, as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals. 

ACACIA:  The inspissated juice of several species of acacia; -- called also gum acacia, and gum arabic.  ACACIN; ACACINE Ac"a*cin, Ac"a*cine, n.  Gum arabic. 

ACADEME:  An academy. [Poetic] Shak. 

ACADEMIAL:  Academic. [R.] 

ACADEMIAN:  A member of an academy, university, or college. 

ACADEMICALLY:  In an academical manner. 

ACADEMICALS:  The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges and universities. 

ACADEMISM:  The doctrines of the Academic philosophy. [Obs.] Baxter. 

ACADIAN:  Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia. "Acadian farmers." Longfellow.  -- n.  A native of Acadie. Acadian epoch (Geol.), an epoch at the beginning of the American paleozoic time, and including the oldest American rocks known to be fossiliferous. See Geology.  -- Acadian owl (Zoöl.), a small North American owl (Nyctule Acadica); the saw-whet. 

ACAJOU:  One of the Acalephæ. 

ACALEPHAE:  A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusæ or jellyfishes, and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess. Sometimes called sea nettles. 

ACALEPHOID:  Belonging to or resembling the Acalephæ or jellyfishes.  ACALYCINE; ACALYSINOUS A*cal"y*cine, Ac`a*lys`i*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  Without a calyx, or outer floral envelope. 

ACANTH:  Same as Acanthus. 

ACANTHA:  A prickle.  2. (Zoöl.)  A spine or prickly fin.  3. (Anat.)  The vertebral column; the spinous process of a vertebra. Dunglison. 

ACANTHACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the acanthus is the type. 

ACANTHINE:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus. 

ACANTHOCARPOUS:  Having the fruit covered with spines. 

ACANTHOCEPHALA:  A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed with recurved spines. 

ACANTHOCEPHALOUS:  Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala. 

ACANTHOPHOROUS:  Spine-bearing. Gray. 

ACANTHOPODIOUS:  Having spinous petioles. 

ACANTHOPTERI:  A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. See Acanthopterygii. 

ACANTHOPTEROUS:  Spiny-winged.  2. (Zoöl.)  Acanthopterygious. 

ACANTHOPTERYGIAN:  Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as the perch.  -- n.  A spiny-finned fish. 

ACANTHOPTERYGII:  An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal, ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch. 

ACANTHOPTERYGIOUS:  Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny- finned. 

ACANTHUS:  A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south of Europe, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.  2. (Arch.)  An ornament resembling the foliage or leaves of the acanthus (Acanthus spinosus); -- used in the capitals of the Corinthian and Composite orders.  A CAPPELLA A cap*pel"la. Etym: [It. See Chapel.] (Mus.) (a) In church or chapel style; -- said of compositions sung in the old church style, without instrumental accompaniment; as, a mass a capella, i. e., a mass purely vocal. (b) A time indication, equivalent to alla breve. 

ACAPSULAR:  Having no capsule. 

ACARDIAC:  Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus. 

ACARIDAN:  One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks. 

ACARINA:  The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks. Many species are parasitic, and cause diseases like the itch and mange. 

ACARINE:  Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases. 

ACAROID:  Shaped like or resembling a mite. 

ACARPELLOUS:  Having no carpels. 

ACARPOUS:  Not producing fruit; unfruitful. 

ACARUS:  A genus including many species of small mites. 

ACATALECTIC:  Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse.  -- n.  A verse which has the complete number of feet and syllables. 

ACATALEPSY:  Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancient Skeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts to certainty, but only to probability. 

ACATALEPTIC:  Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible. 

ACATER:  See Caterer. [Obs.] 

ACATES:  See Cates. [Obs.] 

ACAUDATE:  Tailless. 

ACAULESCENT:  Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed in the ground. Gray. 

ACAULINE:  Same as Acaulescent.  ACAULOSE; ACAULOUS A*cau"lose, A*cau"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. caulis stalk. See Cole.] (Bot.)  Same as Acaulescent. 

ACCADIAN:  Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia before the Assyrian conquest.  -- Ac*ca"di*an, n., Ac"cad, n. Sayce. 

ACCEDENCE:  The act of acceding. 

ACCEDER:  One who accedes. 

ACCELERANDO:  Gradually accelerating the movement. 

ACCELERATION:  The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated; increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward the earth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation. A period of social improvement, or of intellectual advancement, contains within itself a principle of acceleration. I. Taylor. (Astr. & Physics.) Acceleration of the moon, the increase of the moon's mean motion in its orbit, in consequence of which its period of revolution is now shorter than in ancient times.  -- Acceleration and retardation of the tides. See Priming of the tides, under Priming.  -- Diurnal acceleration of the fixed stars, the amount by which their apparent diurnal motion exceeds that of the sun, in consequence of which they daily come to the meridian of any place about three minutes fifty-six seconds of solar time earlier than on the day preceding.  -- Acceleration of the planets, the increasing velocity of their motion, in proceeding from the apogee to the perigee of their orbits. 

ACCELERATIVE:  Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening. Reid. 

ACCELERATOR:  One who, or that which, accelerates. Also as an adj.; as, accelerator nerves. 

ACCELERATORY:  Accelerative. 

ACCELEROGRAPH:  An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns, etc. 

ACCELEROMETER:  An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder. 

ACCEND:  To set on fire; to kindle. [Obs.] Fotherby. 

ACCENDIBILITY:  Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed; inflammability. 

ACCENDIBLE:  Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable. Ure. 

ACCENSION:  The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition. Locke. 

ACCENSOR:  One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers. 

ACCENT:  Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.  6. (Mus.) (a) A regularly recurring stress upon the tone to mark the beginning, and, more feebly, the third part of the measure. (b) A special emphasis of a tone, even in the weaker part of the measure. (c) The rythmical accent, which marks phrases and sections of a period. (d) The expressive emphasis and shading of a passage. J. S. Dwight.  7. (Math.) (a) A mark placed at the right hand of a letter, and a little above it, to distinguish magnitudes of a similar kind expressed by the same letter, but differing in value, as y', y''. (b) (Trigon.) A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating minutes of a degree, seconds, etc.; as, 12'27'', i. e., twelve minutes twenty seven seconds. (c) (Engin.) A mark used to denote feet and inches; as, 6' 10'' is six feet ten inches. 

ACCENTLESS:  Without accent. 

ACCENTOR:  One who sings the leading part; the director or leader. [Obs.]  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of European birds (so named from their sweet notes), including the hedge warbler. In America sometimes applied to the water thrushes. 

ACCENTUABLE:  Capable of being accented. 

ACCENTUAL:  Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent. 

ACCENTUALITY:  The quality of being accentual. 

ACCENTUALLY:  In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent. 

ACCENTUATION:  Act of accentuating; applications of accent. Specifically (Eccles. Mus.),  pitch or modulation of the voice in reciting portions of the liturgy. 

ACCEPT:  To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept a bill of exchange. Bouvier.  6. In a deliberate body, to receive in acquittance of a duty imposed; as, to accept the report of a committee. [This makes it the property of the body, and the question is then on its adoption.] To accept a bill (Law), to agree (on the part of the drawee) to pay it when due.  -- To accept service (Law), to agree that a writ or process shall be considered as regularly served, when it has not been.  -- To accept the person (Eccl.), to show favoritism. "God accepteth no man's person." Gal. ii. 6.  Syn.  -- To receive; take; admit. See Receive. 

ACCEPT:  Accepted. [Obs.] Shak. 

ACCEPTABILITY:  The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness. "Acceptability of repentance." Jer. Taylor. 

ACCEPTABLE:  Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received with pleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as, an acceptable present, one acceptable to us. 

ACCEPTABLENESS:  The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorably received; acceptability. 

ACCEPTABLY:  In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or give satisfaction. 

ACCEPTANCE:  An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds the person in law.  Note: What acts shall amount to such an acceptance is often a question of great nicety and difficulty. Mozley & W.  Note: In modern law, proposal and acceptance are the constituent elements into which all contracts are resolved. Acceptance of a bill of exchange, check, draft, or order, is an engagement to pay it according to the terms. This engagement is usually made by writing the word "accepted" across the face of the bill. Acceptance of goods, under the statute of frauds, is an intelligent acceptance by a party knowing the nature of the transaction.  6. Meaning; acceptation. [Obs.] Acceptance of persons, partiality, favoritism. See under Accept. 

ACCEPTANCY:  Acceptance. [R.] Here's a proof of gift, But here's no proof, sir, of acceptancy. Mrs. Browning. 

ACCEPTANT:  Accepting; receiving. 

ACCEPTANT:  An accepter. Chapman. 

ACCEPTEDLY:  In a accepted manner; admittedly. 

ACCEPTER:  An acceptor. 

ACCEPTILATION:  Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation without payment; free remission. 

ACCEPTION:  Acceptation; the received meaning. [Obs.] Here the word "baron" is not to be taken in that restrictive sense to which the modern acception hath confined it. Fuller. Acception of persons or faces (Eccl.), favoritism; partiality. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

ACCEPTOR:  One who accepts; specifically (Law & Com.),  one who accepts an order or a bill of exchange; a drawee after he has accepted. 

ACCESSARILY:  In the manner of an accessary. 

ACCESSARINESS:  The state of being accessary. 

ACCESSARY:  Accompanying, as a subordinate; additional; accessory; esp., uniting in, or contributing to, a crime, but not as chief actor. See Accessory. To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary. Shak. Amongst many secondary and accessary causes that support monarchy, these are not of least reckoning. Milton. 

ACCESSARY:  One who, not being present, contributes as an assistant or instigator to the commission of an offense. Accessary before the fact (Law), one who commands or counsels an offense, not being present at its commission.  -- Accessary after the fact, one who, after an offense, assists or shelters the offender, not being present at the commission of the offense.  Note: This word, as used in law, is spelt accessory by Blackstone and many others; but in this sense is spelt accessary by Bouvier, Burrill, Burns, Whishaw, Dane, and the Penny Cyclopedia; while in other senses it is spelt accessory. In recent text-books on criminal law the distinction is not preserved, the spelling being either accessary or accessory. 

ACCESSIBILITY:  The quality of being accessible, or of admitting approach; receptibility. Langhorne. 

ACCESSIBLY:  In an accessible manner. 

ACCESSION:  The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit or paroxysm.  Syn.  -- Increase; addition; augmentation; enlargement. 

ACCESSIONAL:  Pertaining to accession; additional. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

ACCESSIVE:  Additional. 

ACCESSORIAL:  Of or pertaining to an accessory; as, accessorial agency, accessorial guilt. 

ACCESSORILY:  In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary. 

ACCESSORINESS:  The state of being accessory, or connected subordinately. 

ACCESSORY:  Accompanying as a subordinate; aiding in a secondary way; additional; connected as an incident or subordinate to a principal; contributing or contributory; said of persons and things, and, when of persons, usually in a bad sense; as, he was accessory to the riot; accessory sounds in music.  Note: Ash accents the antepenult; and this is not only more regular, but preferable, on account of easiness of pronunciation. Most orhoëpists place the accent on the first syllable.  Syn.  -- Accompanying; contributory; auxiliary; subsidiary; subservient; additional; acceding. 

ACCESSORY:  Same as Accessary, n.  3. (Fine Arts)  Anything that enters into a work of art without being indispensably necessary, as mere ornamental parts. Elmes.  Syn.  -- Abettor; accomplice; ally; coadjutor. See Abettor. 

ACCIACCATURA:  A short grace note, one semitone below the note to which it is prefixed; -- used especially in organ music. Now used as equivalent to the short appoggiatura. 

ACCIDENT:  A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, as gender, number, case.  3. (Her.)  A point or mark which may be retained or omitted in a coat of arms.  4. (Log.) (a) A property or quality of a thing which is not essential to it, as whiteness in paper; an attribute. (b) A quality or attribute in distinction from the substance, as sweetness, softness.  5. Any accidental property, fact, or relation; an accidental or nonessential; as, beauty is an accident. This accident, as I call it, of Athens being situated some miles from the sea. J. P. Mahaffy.  6. Unusual appearance or effect. [Obs.] Chaucer.  Note: Accident, in Law, is equivalent to casus, or such unforeseen, extraordinary, extraneous interference as is out of the range of ordinary calculation. 

ACCIDENTAL:  Those fortuitous effects produced by luminous rays falling on certain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightness and other parts are cast into a deep shadow.  3. (Mus.)  A sharp, flat, or natural, occurring not at the commencement of a piece of music as the signature, but before a particular note. 

ACCIDENTALISM:  Accidental character or effect. Ruskin. 

ACCIDENTALITY:  The quality of being accidental; accidentalness. [R.] Coleridge. 

ACCIDENTALLY:  In an accidental manner; unexpectedly; by chance; unintentionally; casually; fortuitously; not essentially. 

ACCIDENTALNESS:  The quality of being accidental; casualness. 

ACCIDIE:  Sloth; torpor. [Obs.] "The sin of accidie." Chaucer. 

ACCIPENSER:  See Acipenser. 

ACCIPIENT:  A receiver. [R.] Bailey 

ACCIPITER:  A genus of rapacious birds; one of the Accipitres or Raptores.  2. (Surg.)  A bandage applied over the nose, resembling the claw of a hawk. 

ACCIPITRAL:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a falcon or hawk; hawklike. Lowell. 

ACCIPITRES:  The order that includes rapacious birds. They have a hooked bill, and sharp, strongly curved talons. There are three families, represented by the vultures, the falcons or hawks, and the owls. 

ACCIPITRINE:  Like or belonging to the Accipitres; raptorial; hawklike. 

ACCISMUS:  Affected refusal; coyness. 

ACCITE:  To cite; to summon. [Obs.] Our heralds now accited all that were Endamaged by the Elians. Chapman. 

ACCLAIM:  To shout applause. 

ACCLAIM:  Acclamation. [Poetic] Milton. 

ACCLAIMER:  One who acclaims. 

ACCLAMATION:  A representation, in sculpture or on medals, of people expressing joy. Acclamation medals are those on which laudatory acclamations are recorded. Elmes. 

ACCLAMATORY:  Pertaining to, or expressing approval by, acclamation. 

ACCLIMATABLE:  Capable of being acclimated. 

ACCLIMATATION:  Acclimatization. 

ACCLIMATE:  To habituate to a climate not native; to acclimatize. J. H. Newman. 

ACCLIMATEMENT:  Acclimation. [R.] 

ACCLIMATION:  The process of becoming, or the state of being, acclimated, or habituated to a new climate; acclimatization. 

ACCLIMATIZABLE:  Capable of being acclimatized. 

ACCLIMATIZATION:  The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a new climate, or the state of being so inured. Darwin. 

ACCLIMATIZE:  To inure or habituate to a climate different from that which is natural; to adapt to the peculiarities of a foreign or strange climate; said of man, the inferior animals, or plants. 

ACCLIMATURE:  The act of acclimating, or the state of being acclimated. [R.] Caldwell. 

ACCLIVE:  Acclivous. [Obs.] 

ACCLIVITOUS:  Acclivous. I. Taylor. 

ACCLIVITOUS:  Acclivous.  I. Taylor. 

ACCLIVITY:  A slope or inclination of the earth, as the side of a hill, considered as ascending, in opposition to declivity, or descending; an upward slope; ascent. 

ACCLIVOUS:  Sloping upward; rising as a hillside; -- opposed to declivous. 

ACCLOY:  To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; to burden. See Cloy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ACCOAST:  To lie or sail along the coast or side of; to accost. [Obs.] Whether high towering or accosting low. Spenser. 

ACCOIL:  To coil together. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

ACCOLADE:  A brace used to join two or more staves. 

ACCOMBINATION:  A combining together. [R.] 

ACCOMMODABLE:  That may be accommodated, fitted, or made to agree. [R.] I. Watts. 

ACCOMMODABLENESS:  The quality or condition of being accommodable. [R.] Todd. 

ACCOMMODATE:  To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted. [R.] Boyle. 

ACCOMMODATE:  Suitable; fit; adapted; as, means accommodate to end. [Archaic] Tillotson. 

ACCOMMODATELY:  Suitably; fitly. [R.] 

ACCOMMODATENESS:  Fitness. [R.] 

ACCOMMODATING:  Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; as an accommodating man, spirit, arrangement. 

ACCOMMODATOR:  He who, or that which, accommodates. Warburton. 

ACCOMPANABLE:  Sociable. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

ACCOMPANIER:  He who, or that which, accompanies. Lamb. 

ACCOMPANIMENT:  That which accompanies; something that attends as a circumstance, or which is added to give greater completeness to the principal thing, or by way of ornament, or for the sake of symmetry. Specifically: (Mus.)  A part performed by instruments, accompanying another part or parts performed by voices; the subordinate part, or parts, accompanying the voice or a principal instrument; also, the harmony of a figured bass. P. Cyc. 

ACCOMPANIST:  The performer in music who takes the accompanying part. Busby. 

ACCOMPANY:  To perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition. 

ACCOMPLETIVE:  Tending to accomplish. [R.] 

ACCOMPLICE:  An associate in the commission of a crime; a participator in an offense, whether a principal or an accessory. "And thou, the cursed accomplice of his treason." Johnson.  Note: It is followed by with or of before a person and by in (or sometimes of) before the crime; as, A was an accomplice with B in the murder of C. Dryden uses it with to before a thing. "Suspected for accomplice to the fire." Dryden.  Syn.  -- Abettor; accessory; assistant; associate; confederate; coadjutor; ally; promoter. See Abettor. 

ACCOMPLICESHIP:  The state of being an accomplice. [R.] Sir H. Taylor. 

ACCOMPLICITY:  The act or state of being an accomplice. [R.] 

ACCOMPLISHABLE:  Capable of being accomplished; practicable. Carlyle. 

ACCOMPLISHER:  One who accomplishes. 

ACCOMPT:  See Account.  Note: Accompt, accomptant, etc., are archaic forms. 

ACCOMPTABLE:  See Accountable. 

ACCOMPTANT:  See Accountant. 

ACCORD:  An agreement between parties in controversy, by which satisfaction for an injury is stipulated, and which, when executed, bars a suit. Blackstone. With one accord, with unanimity. They rushed with one accord into the theater. Acts xix. 29. 

ACCORDANCE:  Agreement; harmony; conformity. "In strict accordance with the law." Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Harmony; unison; coincidence. 

ACCORDANCY:  Accordance. [R.] Paley. 

ACCORDANT:  Agreeing; consonant; harmonious; corresponding; conformable; -- followed by with or to. Strictly accordant with true morality. Darwin. And now his voice accordant to the string. Coldsmith. 

ACCORDANTLY:  In accordance or agreement; agreeably; conformably; -- followed by with or to. 

ACCORDER:  One who accords, assents, or concedes. [R.] 

ACCORDING:  Agreeing; in agreement or harmony; harmonious. "This according voice of national wisdom." Burke. "Mind and soul according well." Tennyson. According to him, every person was to be bought. Macaulay. Our zeal should be according to knowledge. Sprat.  Note: According to has been called a prepositional phrase, but strictly speaking, according is a participle in the sense of agreeing, acceding, and to alone is the preposition. According as, precisely as; the same as; corresponding to the way in which. According as is an adverbial phrase, of which the propriety has been doubted; but good usage sanctions it. See According, adv. Is all things well, According as I gave directions Shak. The land which the Lord will give you according as he hath promised. Ex. xii. 25. p. 13 

ACCORDING:  Accordingly; correspondingly. [Obs.] Shak. 

ACCORDION:  A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones are generated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds. 

ACCORDIONIST:  A player on the accordion. 

ACCORDMENT:  Agreement; reconcilement. [Obs.] Gower. 

ACCORPORATE:  To unite; to attach; to incorporate. [Obs.] Milton. 

ACCOST:  To adjoin; to lie alongside. [Obs.] "The shores which to the sea accost." Spenser. 

ACCOST:  Address; greeting. [R.] J. Morley. 

ACCOSTABLE:  Approachable; affable. [R.] Hawthorne. 

ACCOSTED:  Supported on both sides by other charges; also, side by side. 

ACCOUCHEMENT:  Delivery in childbed 

ACCOUCHEUR:  A man who assists women in childbirth; a man midwife; an obstetrician. 

ACCOUCHEUSE:  A midwife. [Recent] Dunglison. 

ACCOUNTABILITY:  The state of being accountable; liability to be called on to render an account; accountableness. "The awful idea of accountability." R. Hall. 

ACCOUNTABLENESS:  The quality or state of being accountable; accountability. 

ACCOUNTABLY:  In an accountable manner. 

ACCOUNTANCY:  The art or employment of an accountant. 

ACCOUNTANT:  Accountable. [Obs.] Shak. 

ACCOUNTANTSHIP:  The office or employment of an accountant.  ACCOUNT BOOK Ac*count" book`.  A book in which accounts are kept. Swift. 

ACCOUPLE:  To join; to couple. [R.] The Englishmen accoupled themselves with the Frenchmen. Hall. 

ACCOURAGE:  To encourage. [Obs.] 

ACCOURT:  To treat courteously; to court. [Obs.] Spenser.  ACCOUTER; ACCOUTRE Ac*cou"ter, Ac*cou"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accoutered or Accoutred; p. pr. & vb. n. Accoutering or Accoutring.] Etym: [F. accouter, OF. accoutrer, accoustrer; à (L. ad) + perh. LL. custor, for custos guardian, sacristan (cf. Custody), or perh. akin to E. guilt.]  To furnish with dress, or equipments, esp. those for military service; to equip; to attire; to array. Bot accoutered like young men. Shak. For this, in rags accoutered are they seen. Dryden. Accoutered with his burden and his staff. Wordsworth.  ACCOUTERMENTS; ACCOUTREMENTS Ac*cou"ter*ments, Ac*cou"tre*ments, n. pl. Etym: [F. accoutrement, earlier also accoustrement, earlier also accoustrement. See Accouter.]  Dress; trappings; equipment; specifically, the devices and equipments worn by soldiers. How gay with all the accouterments of war! 

ACCREDITATION:  The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation. 

ACCREMENTITIAL:  Pertaining to accremention. 

ACCREMENTITION:  The process of generation by development of blastema, or fission of cells, in which the new formation is in all respect like the individual from which it proceeds. 

ACCRESCENCE:  Continuous growth; an accretion. [R.] The silent accrescence of belief from the unwatched depositions of a general, never contradicted hearsy. Coleridge. 

ACCRESCENT:  Growing larger after flowering. Gray. 

ACCRETE:  To make adhere; to add. Earle. 

ACCRETE:  Grown together. Gray. 

ACCRETIVE:  Relating to accretion; increasing, or adding to, by growth. Glanvill. 

ACCRIMINATE:  To accuse of a crime. [Obs.] -- Ac*crim`i*na"tion, n. [Obs.] 

ACCROACHMENT:  An encroachment; usurpation. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ACCRUAL:  Accrument. [R.] 

ACCRUE:  Something that accrues; advantage accruing. [Obs.] 

ACCRUER:  The act of accruing; accretion; as, title by accruer. 

ACCRUMENT:  The process of accruing, or that which has accrued; increase. Jer. Taylor. 

ACCUBATION:  The act or posture of reclining on a couch, as practiced by the ancients at meals. 

ACCUMB:  To recline, as at table. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ACCUMBENCY:  The state of being accumbent or reclining. [R.] 

ACCUMBENT:  Lying against anything, as one part of a leaf against another leaf. Gray. Accumbent cotyledons have their edges placed against the caulicle. Eaton. 

ACCUMBENT:  One who reclines at table. 

ACCUMBER:  To encumber. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ACCUMULATE:  To heap up in a mass; to pile up; to collect or bring together; to amass; as, to accumulate a sum of money.  Syn.  -- To collect; pile up; store; amass; gather; aggregate; heap together; hoard. 

ACCUMULATE:  To grow or increase in quantity or number; to increase greatly. Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth accumulates, and men decay. Goldsmith. 

ACCUMULATE:  Collected; accumulated. Bacon. 

ACCUMULATION:  The concurrence of several titles to the same proof. Accumulation of energy or power, the storing of energy by means of weights lifted or masses put in motion; electricity stored.  -- An accumulation of degrees (Eng. Univ.), the taking of several together, or at smaller intervals than usual or than is allowed by the rules. 

ACCUMULATIVE:  Characterized by accumulation; serving to collect or amass; cumulative; additional.  -- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ly, adv.  -- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ness, n. 

ACCUMULATOR:  An apparatus by means of which energy or power can be stored, such as the cylinder or tank for storing water for hydraulic elevators, the secondary or storage battery used for accumulating the energy of electrical charges, etc.  3. A system of elastic springs for relieving the strain upon a rope, as in deep-sea dredging. 

ACCURACY:  The state of being accurate; freedom from mistakes, this exemption arising from carefulness; exact conformity to truth, or to a rule or model; precision; exactness; nicety; correctness; as, the value of testimony depends on its accuracy. The professed end [of logic] is to teach men to think, to judge, and to reason, with precision and accuracy. Reid. The accuracy with which the piston fits the sides. Lardner. 

ACCURATELY:  In an accurate manner; exactly; precisely; without error or defect. 

ACCURATENESS:  The state or quality of being accurate; accuracy; exactness; nicety; precision. 

ACCURSE:  To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; to curse; to execrate; to anathematize. And the city shall be accursed. Josh. vi. 17. Thro' you, my life will be accurst. Tennyson.  ACCURSED; ACCURST Ac*cursed", Ac*curst", p. p. & a.  Doomed to destruction or misery; cursed; hence, bad enough to be under the curse; execrable; detestable; exceedingly hateful; -- as, an accursed deed. Shak.  -- Ac*curs"ed*ly, adv.  -- Ac*curs"ed*ness, n. 

ACCUSABLE:  Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime or fault; blamable; -- with of. 

ACCUSAL:  Accusation. [R.] Byron. 

ACCUSANT:  An accuser. Bp. Hall. 

ACCUSATIVAL:  Pertaining to the accusative case. 

ACCUSATIVE:  Applied to the case (as the fourth case of Latin and Greek nouns) which expresses the immediate object on which the action or influence of a transitive verb terminates, or the immediate object of motion or tendency to, expressed by a preposition. It corresponds to the objective case in English. 

ACCUSATIVE:  The accusative case. 

ACCUSATORIAL:  Accusatory. 

ACCUSATORIALLY:  By way accusation. 

ACCUSATORY:  Pertaining to, or containing, an accusation; as, an accusatory libel. Grote. 

ACCUSE:  Accusation. [Obs.] Shak. 

ACCUSE:  to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; - - with of; as, to accuse one of a high crime or misdemeanor. Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me. Acts xxiv. 13. We are accused of having persuaded Austria and Sardinia to lay down their arms. Macaulay.  2. To charge with a fault; to blame; to censure. Their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. Rom. ii. 15.  3. To betray; to show. Etym: [L.] Sir P. Sidney.  Syn.  -- To charge; blame; censure; reproach; criminate; indict; impeach; arraign.  -- To Accuse, Charge, Impeach, Arraign. These words agree in bringing home to a person the imputation of wrongdoing. To accuse is a somewhat formal act, and is applied usually (though not exclusively) to crimes; as, to accuse of treason. Charge is the most generic. It may refer to a crime, a dereliction of duty, a fault, etc.; more commonly it refers to moral delinquencies; as, to charge with dishonesty or falsehood. To arraign is to bring (a person) before a tribunal for trial; as, to arraign one before a court or at the bar public opinion. To impeach is officially to charge with misbehavior in office; as, to impeach a minister of high crimes. Both impeach and arraign convey the idea of peculiar dignity or impressiveness. 

ACCUSED:  Charged with offense; as, an accused person.  Note: Commonly used substantively; as, the accused, one charged with an offense; the defendant in a criminal case. 

ACCUSEMENT:  Accusation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ACCUSER:  One who accuses; one who brings a charge of crime or fault. 

ACCUSINGLY:  In an accusing manner. 

ACCUSTOM:  To make familiar by use; to habituate, familiarize, or inure; - - with to. I shall always fear that he who accustoms himself to fraud in little things, wants only opportunity to practice it in greater. Adventurer.  Syn.  -- To habituate; inure; exercise; train. 

ACCUSTOM:  Custom. [Obs.] Milton. 

ACCUSTOMABLE:  Habitual; customary; wonted. "Accustomable goodness." Latimer. 

ACCUSTOMABLY:  According to custom; ordinarily; customarily. Latimer. 

ACCUSTOMANCE:  Custom; habitual use. [Obs.] Boyle. 

ACCUSTOMARILY:  Customarily. [Obs.] 

ACCUSTOMARY:  Usual; customary. [Archaic] Featley. 

ACCUSTOMEDNESS:  Habituation. Accustomedness to sin hardens the heart. Bp. Pearce. 

ACELDAMA:  The potter's field, said to have lain south of Jerusalem, purchased with the bribe which Judas took for betraying his Master, and therefore called the field of blood. Fig.: A field of bloodshed. The system of warfare . . . which had already converted immense tracts into one universal aceldama. De Quincey. 

ACENTRIC:  Not centered; without a center. 

ACEPHAL:  One of the Acephala. 

ACEPHALA:  That division of the Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells, like the clams and oysters; -- so called because they have no evident head. Formerly the group included the Tunicata, Brachiopoda, and sometimes the Bryozoa. See Mollusca. 

ACEPHALAN:  Same as Acephal. 

ACEPHALAN:  Belonging to the Acephala. 

ACEPHALIST:  One who acknowledges no head or superior. Dr. Gauden. 

ACEPHALOCYST:  A larval entozoön in the form of a subglobular or oval vesicle, or hy datid, filled with fluid, sometimes found in the tissues of man and the lower animals; -- so called from the absence of a head or visible organs on the vesicle. These cysts are the immature stages of certain tapeworms. Also applied to similar cysts of different origin. 

ACEPHALOCYSTIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the acephalocysts. 

ACEPHALOUS:  Without a distinct head; -- a term applied to bivalve mollusks.  3. (Bot.)  Having the style spring from the base, instead of from the apex, as is the case in certain ovaries.  4. Without a leader or chief.  5. Wanting the beginning. A false or acephalous structure of sentence. De Quincey.  6. (Pros.)  Deficient and the beginning, as a line of poetry. Brande. 

ACEQUIA:  A canal or trench for irrigating land. [Sp. Amer.] 

ACERATE:  A combination of aceric acid with a salifiable base. 

ACERATE:  Acerose; needle-shaped. 

ACERB:  Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharp and harsh. 

ACERBATE:  To sour; to imbitter; to irritate. 

ACERBIC:  Sour or severe. 

ACERBITUDE:  Sourness and harshness. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ACERIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid. Ure. 

ACEROUS:  Same as Acerose. 

ACERVAL:  Pertaining to a heap. [Obs.] 

ACERVATE:  To heap up. [Obs.] 

ACERVATE:  Heaped, or growing in heaps, or closely compacted clusters. 

ACERVATION:  A heaping up; accumulation. [R.] Johnson. 

ACERVATIVE:  Heaped up; tending to heap up. 

ACERVOSE:  Full of heaps. [R.] Bailey. 

ACERVULINE:  Resembling little heaps.  ACESCENCE; ACESCENCY A*ces"cence, A*ces"cen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acescence. See Acescent.]  The quality of being acescent; the process of acetous fermentation; a moderate degree of sourness. Johnson. 

ACESCENT:  Turning sour; readily becoming tart or acid; slightly sour. Faraday. 

ACESCENT:  A substance liable to become sour. 

ACETABLE:  An acetabulum; or about one eighth of a pint. [Obs.] Holland. 

ACETABULAR:  Cup-shaped; saucer-shaped; acetabuliform. 

ACETABULIFERA:  The division of Cephalopoda in which the arms are furnished with cup-shaped suckers, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopus; the Dibranchiata. See Cephalopoda. 

ACETABULIFEROUS:  Furnished with fleshy cups for adhering to bodies, as cuttlefish, etc. 

ACETABULIFORM:  Shaped like a shallow; saucer-shaped; as, an acetabuliform calyx. Gray. 

ACETABULUM:  A vinegar cup; socket of the hip bone; a measure of about one eighth of a pint, etc.  2. (Anat.) (a) The bony cup which receives the head of the thigh bone. (b) The cavity in which the leg of an insect is inserted at its articulation with the body. (c) A sucker of the sepia or cuttlefish and related animals. (d) The large posterior sucker of the leeches. (e) One of the lobes of the placenta in ruminating animals. 

ACETAL:  A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidation of alcohol under the influence of platinum black. 

ACETALDEHYDE:  Acetic aldehyde. See Aldehyde. 

ACETAMIDE:  A white crystalline solid, from ammonia by replacement of an equivalent of hydrogen by acetyl. 

ACETANILIDE:  A compound of aniline with acetyl, used to allay fever or pain; -- called also antifebrine. 

ACETARIOUS:  Used in salads; as, acetarious plants. 

ACETARY:  An acid pulp in certain fruits, as the pear. Grew. 

ACETATE:  A salt formed by the union of acetic acid with a base or positive radical; as, acetate of lead, acetate of potash. 

ACETATED:  Combined with acetic acid. 

ACETIFICATION:  The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting, or of becoming converted, into vinegar. 

ACETIFIER:  An apparatus for hastening acetification. Knight. 

ACETIFY:  To convert into acid or vinegar. 

ACETIFY:  To turn acid. Encyc. Dom. Econ. 

ACETIMETER:  An instrument for estimating the amount of acetic acid in vinegar or in any liquid containing acetic acid. 

ACETIMETRY:  The act or method of ascertaining the strength of vinegar, or the proportion of acetic acid contained in it. Ure. 

ACETIN:  A combination of acetic acid with glycerin. Brande & C. 

ACETIZE:  To acetify. [R.] 

ACETOL:  Methyl ketol; also, any of various homologues of the same. 

ACETOMETER:  Same as Acetimeter. Brande & C.  ACETONAEMIA; ACETONEMIA Ac`e*to*næ"mi*a, Ac`e*to*ne"mi*a, n. [NL. See Acetone; Hæma-.] (Med.)  A morbid condition characterized by the presence of acetone in the blood, as in diabetes. 

ACETONE:  A volatile liquid consisting of three parts of carbon, six of hydrogen, and one of oxygen; pyroacetic spirit, -- obtained by the distillation of certain acetates, or by the destructive distillation of citric acid, starch, sugar, or gum, with quicklime.  Note: The term in also applied to a number of bodies of similar constitution, more frequently called ketones. See Ketone. 

ACETONIC:  Of or pertaining to acetone; as, acetonic bodies. 

ACETONURIA:  Excess of acetone in the urine, as in starvation or diabetes. 

ACETOPHENONE:  A crystalline ketone, CH3COC6H5, which may be obtained by the dry distillation of a mixture of the calcium salts of acetic and benzoic acids. It is used as a hypnotic under the name of hypnone. 

ACETOSE:  Sour like vinegar; acetous. 

ACETOSITY:  The quality of being acetous; sourness. 

ACETYL:  A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts of carbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Its hydroxide is acetic acid. 

ACETYLENE:  A gaseous compound of carbon and hydrogen, in the proportion of two atoms of the former to two of the latter. It is a colorless gas, with a peculiar, unpleasant odor, and is produced for use as an illuminating gas in a number of ways, but chiefly by the action of water on calcium carbide. Its light is very brilliant. Watts.  ACH; ACHE Ach, Ache, n. Etym: [F. ache, L. apium parsley.]  A name given to several species of plants; as, smallage, wild celery, parsley. [Obs.] Holland.  ACHAEAN; ACHAIAN A*chæ"an, A*cha"ian a. Etym: [L. Achaeus, Achaius; Gr.  Of or pertaining to Achaia in Greece; also, Grecian.  -- n.  A native of Achaia; a Greek. 

ACHARNEMENT:  Savage fierceness; ferocity. 

ACHATE:  An agate. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

ACHATE:  Provisions. Same as Cates. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ACHATINA:  A genus of land snails, often large, common in the warm parts of America and Africa. 

ACHATOUR:  Purveyor; acater. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ACHE:  Continued pain, as distinguished from sudden twinges, or spasmodic pain. "Such an ache in my bones." Shak.  Note: Often used in composition, as, a headache, an earache, a toothache. 

ACHE:  To suffer pain; to have, or be in, pain, or in continued pain; to be distressed. "My old bones ache." Shak. The sins that in your conscience ache. Keble. 

ACHEAN:  See Achæan, Achaian.  ACHENE; ACHENIUM A*chene", A*che"ni*um n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  A small, dry, indehiscent fruit, containing a single seed, as in the buttercup; -- called a naked seed by the earlier botanists. [Written also akene and achænium.] 

ACHENIAL:  Pertaining to an achene. 

ACHERON:  A river in the Nether World or infernal regions; also, the infernal regions themselves. By some of the English poets it was supposed to be a flaming lake or gulf. Shak. 

ACHERONTIC:  Of or pertaining to Acheron; infernal; hence, dismal, gloomy; moribund.  A CHEVAL A` che*val". [F., lit., on horseback.]  Astride; with a part on each side; -- used specif. in designating the position of an army with the wings separated by some line of demarcation, as a river or road.  A position à cheval on a river is not one which a general willingly assumes. Swinton. 

ACHIEVABLE:  Capable of being achieved. Barrow. 

ACHIEVANCE:  Achievement. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

ACHIEVEMENT:  An escutcheon or ensign armorial; now generally applied to the funeral shield commonly called hatchment. Cussans. 

ACHIEVER:  One who achieves; a winner. 

ACHILLEAN:  Resembling Achilles, the hero of the Iliad; invincible.  ACHILLES' TENDON A*chil"les' ten"don, n. Etym: [L. Achillis tendo.] (Anat.)  The strong tendon formed of the united tendons of the large muscles in the calf of the leg, an inserted into the bone of the heel; -- so called from the mythological account of Achilles being held by the heel when dipped in the River Styx. 

ACHILOUS:  Without a lip. 

ACHING:  That aches; continuously painful. See Ache.  -- Ach"ing*ly, adv. The aching heart, the aching head. Longfellow. 

ACHIOTE:  Seeds of the annotto tree; also, the coloring matter, annotto. 

ACHLAMYDATE:  Not possessing a mantle; -- said of certain gastropods. 

ACHLAMYDEOUS:  Naked; having no floral envelope, neither calyx nor corolla. 

ACHOLIA:  Deficiency or want of bile. 

ACHOLOUS:  Lacking bile. 

ACHROMATIC:  Free from color; transmitting light without decomposing it into its primary colors.  2. (Biol.)  Uncolored; not absorbing color from a fluid; -- said of tissue. Achromatic lens (Opt.), a lens composed usually of two separate lenses, a convex and concave, of substances having different refractive and dispersive powers, as crown and flint glass, with the curvatures so adjusted that the chromatic aberration produced by the one is corrected by other, and light emerges from the compound lens undecomposed.  -- Achromatic prism. See Prism.  -- Achromatic telescope, or microscope, one in which the chromatic aberration is corrected, usually by means of a compound or achromatic object glass, and which gives images free from extraneous color. 

ACHROMATICALLY:  In an achromatic manner. 

ACHROMATICITY:  Achromatism. 

ACHROMATIN:  Tissue which is not stained by fluid dyes. W. Flemming. 

ACHROMATISM:  The state or quality of being achromatic; as, the achromatism of a lens; achromaticity. Nichol. 

ACHROMATIZATION:  The act or process of achromatizing. 

ACHROMATIZE:  To deprive of color; to make achromatic. 

ACHROMATOPSY:  Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism. 

ACHROMATOUS:  Lacking, or deficient in, color; as, achromatous blood. 

ACHROMIC:  Free from color; colorless; as, in Physiol. Chem., the achromic point of a starch solution acted upon by an amylolytic enzyme is the point at which it fails to give any color with iodine. 

ACHRONIC:  See Acronyc.  ACHROODEXTRIN; ACHROOEDEXTRIN Ach`ro*ö*dex"trin, n. Etym: [Gr. dextrin.] (Physiol. Chem.)  Dextrin not colorable by iodine. See Dextrin. 

ACHROOUS:  Colorless; achromatic. 

ACHYLOUS:  Without chyle. 

ACHYMOUS:  Without chyme. 

ACICULA:  One of the needlelike or bristlelike spines or prickles of some animals and plants; also, a needlelike crystal. 

ACICULAR:  Needle-shaped; slender like a needle or bristle, as some leaves or crystals; also, having sharp points like needless. A*cic"u*lar*ly, adv.  ACICULATE; ACICULATED A*cic"u*late, A*cic"u*la"ted a. (Nat. Hist.) (a) Furnished with aciculæ. (b) Acicular. (c) Marked with fine irregular streaks as if scratched by a needle. Lindley. 

ACICULIFORM:  Needle-shaped; acicular. 

ACICULITE:  Needle ore. Brande & C. 

ACID:  One of a class of compounds, generally but not always distinguished by their sour taste, solubility in water, and reddening of vegetable blue or violet colors. They are also characterized by the power of destroying the distinctive properties of alkalies or bases, combining with them to form salts, at the same time losing their own peculiar properties. They all contain hydrogen, united with a more negative element or radical, either alone, or more generally with oxygen, and take their names from this negative element or radical. Those which contain no oxygen are sometimes called hydracids in distinction from the others which are called oxygen acids or oxacids.  Note: In certain cases, sulphur, selenium, or tellurium may take the place of oxygen, and the corresponding compounds are called respectively sulphur acids or sulphacids, selenium acids, or tellurium acids. When the hydrogen of an acid is replaced by a positive element or radical, a salt is formed, and hence acids are sometimes named as salts of hydrogen; as hydrogen nitrate for nitric acid, hydrogen sulphate for sulphuric acid, etc. In the old chemistry the name acid was applied to the oxides of the negative or nonmetallic elements, now sometimes called anhydrides. 

ACIDIC:  Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic. an acidic solution. 

ACIDIFEROUS:  Containing or yielding an acid. 

ACIDIFIABLE:  Capable of being acidified, or converted into an acid. 

ACIDIFIC:  Producing acidity; converting into an acid. Dana. 

ACIDIFICATION:  The act or process of acidifying, or changing into an acid. 

ACIDIFIER:  A simple or compound principle, whose presence is necessary to produce acidity, as oxygen, chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc. 

ACIDIMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the strength of acids. Ure. 

ACIDIMETRY:  The measurement of the strength of acids, especially by a chemical process based on the law of chemical combinations, or the fact that, to produce a complete reaction, a certain definite weight of reagent is required.  -- Ac`id*i*met"ric*al, a. 

ACIDITY:  The quality of being sour; sourness; tartness; sharpness to the taste; as, the acidity of lemon juice. 

ACIDLY:  Sourly; tartly. 

ACIDNESS:  Acidity; sourness.  ACID PROCESS Ac"id proc"ess. (Iron Metal.)  That variety of either the Bessemer or the open-hearth process in which the converter or hearth is lined with acid, that is, highly siliceous, material. Opposed to basic process. 

ACIDULATE:  To make sour or acid in a moderate degree; to sour somewhat. Arbuthnot. 

ACIDULENT:  Having an acid quality; sour; acidulous. "With anxious, acidulent face." Carlyle. 

ACIDULOUS:  Slightly sour; sub-acid; sourish; as, an acidulous tincture. E. Burke. Acidulous mineral waters, such as contain carbonic anhydride. 

ACIERAGE:  The process of coating the surface of a metal plate (as a stereotype plate) with steellike iron by means of voltaic electricity; steeling. 

ACIFORM:  Shaped like a needle. 

ACINACEOUS:  Containing seeds or stones of grapes, or grains like them. 

ACINACES:  A short sword or saber. 

ACINACIFORM:  Scimeter-shaped; as, an acinaciform leaf. 

ACINESIA:  Same as Akinesia. 

ACINETAE:  A group of suctorial Infusoria, which in the adult stage are stationary. See Suctoria. 

ACINETIFORM:  Resembling the Acinetæ. 

ACINIFORM:  Consisting of acini, or minute granular concretions; as, acinose or acinous glands. Kirwan. 

ACINUS:  One of the granular masses which constitute a racemose or compound gland, as the pancreas; also, one of the saccular recesses in the lobules of a racemose gland. Quain. 

ACIPENSER:  A genus of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons, having the body armed with bony scales, and the mouth on the under side of the head. See Sturgeon. 

ACIURGY:  Operative surgery. 

ACKNOWLEDGEDLY:  Confessedly. 

ACKNOWLEDGER:  One who acknowledges. 

ACLINIC:  Without inclination or dipping; -- said the magnetic needle balances itself horizontally, having no dip. The aclinic line is also termed the magnetic equator. Prof. August. 

ACME:  The crisis or height of a disease.  3. Mature age; full bloom of life. B. Jonson. 

ACNE:  A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in the sebaceous glands. 

ACNODAL:  Pertaining to acnodes. 

ACNODE:  An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coördinates satisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered as belonging to the curve. 

ACOCK:  In a cocked or turned up fashion. 

ACOLD:  Cold. [Obs.] "Poor Tom's acold." Shak. 

ACOLOGIC:  Pertaining to acology. 

ACOLOGY:  Materia medica; the science of remedies. 

ACOLOTHIST:  See Acolythist. 

ACOLYCTINE:  An organic base, in the form of a white powder, obtained from Aconitum lycoctonum. Eng. Cyc. 

ACOLYTE:  One who has received the highest of the four minor orders in the Catholic church, being ordained to carry the wine and water and the lights at the Mass.  2. One who attends; an assistant. "With such chiefs, and with James and John as acolytes." Motley. 

ACOLYTH:  Same as Acolyte. 

ACOLYTHIST:  An acolyte. [Obs.]  ACONDDYLOSE; ACONDYLOUS A*cond"dy*lose`, A*con"dy*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Nat. Hist.)  Being without joints; jointless. 

ACONITAL:  Of the nature of aconite. 

ACONITE:  The herb wolfsbane, or monkshood; -- applied to any plant of the genus Aconitum (tribe Hellebore), all the species of which are poisonous.  2. An extract or tincture obtained from Aconitum napellus, used as a poison and medicinally. Winter aconite, a plant (Eranthis hyemalis) allied to the aconites. 

ACONITIA:  Same as Aconitine. 

ACONITIC:  Of or pertaining to aconite. 

ACONITINE:  An intensely poisonous alkaloid, extracted from aconite. 

ACONITUM:  The poisonous herb aconite; also, an extract from it. Strong As aconitum or rash gunpowder. Shak. 

ACONTIA:  Threadlike defensive organs, composed largely of nettling cells (cnidæ), thrown out of the mouth or special pores of certain Actiniæ when irritated. 

ACONTIAS:  Anciently, a snake, called dart snake; now, one of a genus of reptiles closely allied to the lizards. 

ACOPIC:  Relieving weariness; restorative. 

ACORN:  A cone-shaped piece of wood on the point of the spindle above the vane, on the mast-head.  3. (Zoöl.)  See Acorn-shell.  ACORN CUP A"corn cup.  The involucre or cup in which the acorn is fixed. 

ACORNED:  One of the sessile cirripeds; a barnacle of the genus Balanus. See Barnacle. 

ACOSMISM:  A denial of the existence of the universe as distinct from God. 

ACOSMIST:  One who denies the existence of the universe, or of a universe as distinct from God. G. H. Lewes. 

ACOTYLEDON:  A plant which has no cotyledons, as the dodder and all flowerless plants. 

ACOTYLEDONOUS:  Having no seed lobes, as the dodder; also applied to plants which have no true seeds, as ferns, mosses, etc. 

ACOUCHY:  A small species of agouti (Dasyprocta acouchy). 

ACOUMETER:  An instrument for measuring the acuteness of the sense of hearing. Itard. 

ACOUMETRY:  The measuring of the power or extent of hearing. 

ACOUSTIC:  Pertaining to the sense of hearing, the organs of hearing, or the science of sounds; auditory. Acoustic duct, the auditory duct, or external passage of the ear.  -- Acoustic telegraph, a telegraph making audible signals; a telephone.  -- Acoustic vessels, brazen tubes or vessels, shaped like a bell, used in ancient theaters to propel the voices of the actors, so as to render them audible to a great distance. 

ACOUSTIC:  A medicine or agent to assist hearing. 

ACOUSTICAL:  Of or pertaining to acoustics. 

ACOUSTICALLY:  In relation to sound or to hearing. Tyndall. 

ACOUSTICIAN:  One versed in acoustics. Tyndall. 

ACOUSTICS:  The science of sounds, teaching their nature, phenomena, and laws. Acoustics, then, or the science of sound, is a very considerable branch of physics. Sir J. Herschel.  Note: The science is, by some writers, divided, into diacoustics, which explains the properties of sounds coming directly from the ear; and catacoustica, which treats of reflected sounds or echoes. 

ACQUAINT:  Acquainted. [Obs.] 

ACQUAINTABLE:  Easy to be acquainted with; affable. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

ACQUAINTANCESHIP:  A state of being acquainted; acquaintance. Southey. 

ACQUAINTANT:  An acquaintance. [R.] Swift. 

ACQUAINTED:  Personally known; familiar. See To be acquainted with, under Acquaint, v. t. 

ACQUAINTEDNESS:  State of being acquainted; degree of acquaintance. [R.] Boyle. 

ACQUEST:  Property acquired by purchase, gift, or otherwise than by inheritance. Bouvier. 

ACQUIESCENCY:  The quality of being acquiescent; acquiescence. 

ACQUIESCENT:  Resting satisfied or submissive; disposed tacitly to submit; assentive; as, an acquiescent policy. 

ACQUIESCENTLY:  In an acquiescent manner. 

ACQUIET:  To quiet. [Obs.] Acquiet his mind from stirring you against your own peace. Sir A. Sherley. 

ACQUIRABILITY:  The quality of being acquirable; attainableness. [R.] Paley. 

ACQUIRABLE:  Capable of being acquired. 

ACQUIRE:  To gain, usually by one's own exertions; to get as one's own; as, to acquire a title, riches, knowledge, skill, good or bad habits. No virtue is acquired in an instant, but step by step. Barrow. Descent is the title whereby a man, on the death of his ancestor, acquires his estate, by right of representation, as his heir at law. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- To obtain; gain; attain; procure; win; earn; secure. See Obtain. 

ACQUIREMENT:  The act of acquiring, or that which is acquired; attainment. "Rules for the acquirement of a taste." Addison. His acquirements by industry were . . . enriched and enlarged by many excellent endowments of nature. Hayward.  Syn.  -- Acquisition, Acquirement. Acquirement is used in opposition to a natural gift or talent; as, eloquence, and skill in music and painting, are acquirements; genius is the gift or endowment of nature. It denotes especially personal attainments, in opposition to material or external things gained, which are more usually called acquisitions; but this distinction is not always observed. 

ACQUIRER:  A person who acquires. 

ACQUIRY:  Acquirement. [Obs.] Barrow. 

ACQUISITE:  Acquired. [Obs.] Burton. 

ACQUISITIVELY:  In the way of acquisition. 

ACQUISITIVENESS:  The faculty to which the phrenologists attribute the desire of acquiring and possessing. Combe. 

ACQUISITOR:  One who acquires. 

ACQUIST:  Acquisition; gain. Milton. 

ACQUIT:  Acquitted; set free; rid of. [Archaic] Shak. 

ACQUITMENT:  Acquittal. [Obs.] Milton. 

ACQUITTAL:  A setting free, or deliverance from the charge of an offense, by verdict of a jury or sentence of a court. Bouvier. 

ACQUITTANCE:  To acquit. [Obs.] Shak. 

ACQUITTER:  One who acquits or releases. 

ACRANIA:  Partial or total absence of the skull.  2. pl. (Zoöl.)  The lowest group of Vertebrata, including the amphioxus, in which no skull exists. 

ACRANIAL:  Wanting a skull.  ACRASE; ACRAZE A*crase", A*craze", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + crase; or cf. F. écraser to crush. See Crase, Craze.]  1. To craze. [Obs.] Grafton.  2. To impair; to destroy. [Obs.] Hacket.  ACRASIA; ACRASY A*cra"si*a, Ac"ra*sy n. Etym: [Gr. akrasia.]  Excess; intemperance. [Obs. except in Med.] Farindon. 

ACRASPEDA:  A group of acalephs, including most of the larger jellyfishes; the Discophora. 

ACREABLE:  Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce. 

ACREAGE:  Acres collectively; as, the acreage of a farm or a country. 

ACRED:  Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition; as, large-acred men. 

ACRID:  The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness; acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech. 

ACRIDLY:  In an acid manner. 

ACRIMONIOUSLY:  In an acrimonious manner. 

ACRIMONIOUSNESS:  The quality of being acrimonious; asperity; acrimony. 

ACRIMONY:  Undecided character of a disease. [Obs.] 

ACRITA:  The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system has been observed. 

ACRITAN:  Of or pertaining to the Acrita.  -- n. An individual of the Acrita. 

ACRITE:  Acritan. Owen. 

ACRITICAL:  Having no crisis; giving no indications of a crisis; as, acritical symptoms, an acritical abscess. 

ACRITOCHROMACY:  Color blindness; achromatopsy. 

ACRITUDE:  Acridity; pungency joined with heat. [Obs.] 

ACRITY:  Sharpness; keenness. [Obs.]  ACROAMATIC; ACROAMATICAL Ac`ro*a*mat"ic, Ac`ro*a*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Communicated orally; oral; -- applied to the esoteric teachings of Aristotle, those intended for his genuine disciples, in distinction from his exoteric doctrines, which were adapted to outsiders or the public generally. Hence: Abstruse; profound. 

ACROATIC:  Same as Acroamatic. 

ACROBAT:  One who practices rope dancing, high vaulting, or other daring gymnastic feats. 

ACROBATIC:  Pertaining to an acrobat.  -- Ac`ro*bat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ACROBATISM:  Feats of the acrobat; daring gymnastic feats; high vaulting. 

ACROCEPHALIC:  Characterized by a high skull. 

ACROCEPHALY:  Loftiness of skull. 

ACROCERAUNIAN:  Of or pertaining to the high mountain range of "thunder- smitten" peaks (now Kimara), between Epirus and Macedonia. Shelley. 

ACRODACTYLUM:  The upper surface of the toes, individually. 

ACRODONT:  One of a group of lizards having the teeth immovably united to the top of the alveolar ridge.  -- a. Of or pertaining to the acrodonts. 

ACROGEN:  A plant of the highest class of cryptograms, including the ferns, etc. See Cryptogamia. The Age of Acrogens (Geol.), the age of coal plants, or the carboniferous era. 

ACROGENOUS:  Increasing by growth from the extremity; as, an acrogenous plant. 

ACROLEIN:  A limpid, colorless, highly volatile liquid, obtained by the dehydration of glycerin, or the destructive distillation of neutral fats containing glycerin. Its vapors are intensely irritating. Watts. 

ACROLITH:  A statue whose extremities are of stone, the trunk being generally of wood. Elmes.  ACROLITHAN; ACROLITHIC A*crol"i*than, Ac`ro*lith"ic, a.  Pertaining to, or like, an acrolith. 

ACROMEGALY:  Chronic enlargement of the extremities and face. 

ACROMIAL:  Of or pertaining to the acromion. Dunglison. 

ACROMION:  The outer extremity of the shoulder blade. 

ACROMONOGRAMMATIC:  Having each verse begin with the same letter as that with which the preceding verse ends.  ACRONYC; ACRONYCHAL A*cron"yc, A*cron"ych*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Astron.)  Rising at sunset and setting at sunrise, as a star; -- opposed to cosmical.  Note: The word is sometimes incorrectly written acronical, achronychal, acronichal, and acronical. 

ACRONYCALLY:  In an acronycal manner as rising at the setting of the sun, and vise versâ. 

ACRONYCTOUS:  Acronycal. 

ACROOK:  Crookedly. [R.] Udall. 

ACROPETAL:  Developing from below towards the apex, or from the circumference towards the center; centripetal; -- said of certain inflorescence.  ACROPHONY; ACHROPHONY A*croph"o*ny, A*chroph"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.  The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object. 

ACROPHONY:  The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object. 

ACROPODIUM:  The entire upper surface of the foot. 

ACROPOLIS:  The upper part, or the citadel, of a Grecian city; especially, the citadel of Athens. 

ACROPOLITAN:  Pertaining to an acropolis. 

ACROSPIRE:  The sprout at the end of a seed when it begins to germinate; the plumule in germination; -- so called from its spiral form. 

ACROSPIRE:  To put forth the first sprout. 

ACROSPORE:  A spore borne at the extremity of the cells of fructification in fungi. 

ACROSPOROUS:  Having acrospores. 

ACROSS:  From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a direction opposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river. Dryden. To come across, to come upon or meet incidentally. Freeman.  -- To go across the country, to go by a direct course across a region without following the roads. 

ACROSTIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, acrostics. 

ACROSTICALLY:  After the manner of an acrostic. 

ACROTARSIUM:  The instep or front of the tarsus. 

ACROTELEUTIC:  The end of a verse or psalm, or something added thereto, to be sung by the people, by way of a response. 

ACROTER:  Same as Acroterium. 

ACROTERIAL:  Pertaining to an acroterium; as, ornaments. P. Cyc. 

ACROTIC:  Pertaining to or affecting the surface. 

ACROTISM:  Lack or defect of pulsation. 

ACROTOMOUS:  Having a cleavage parallel with the base. 

ACRYLIC:  Of or containing acryl, the hypothetical radical of which acrolein is the hydride; as, acrylic acid. 

ACTABLE:  Capable of being acted. Tennyson. 

ACTINAL:  Pertaining to the part of a radiate animal which contains the mouth. L. Agassiz. 

ACTINARIA:  A large division of Anthozoa, including those which have simple tentacles and do not form stony corals. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied to all the Anthozoa, expert the Alcyonaria, whether forming corals or not. 

ACTINIC:  Of or pertaining to actinism; as, actinic rays. 

ACTINIFORM:  Having a radiated form, like a sea anemone. 

ACTINISM:  The property of radiant energy (found chiefly in solar or electric light) by which chemical changes are produced, as in photography. 

ACTINIUM:  A supposed metal, said by Phipson to be contained in commercial zinc; -- so called because certain of its compounds are darkened by exposure to light.  ACTINO-CHEMISTRY Ac`ti*no-chem"is*try, n.  Chemistry in its relations to actinism. Draper. 

ACTINOGRAM:  A record made by the actinograph. 

ACTINOGRAPH:  An instrument for measuring and recording the variations in the actinic or chemical force of rays of light. Nichol. 

ACTINOID:  Having the form of rays; radiated, as an actinia. 

ACTINOLITE:  A bright green variety of amphibole occurring usually in fibrous or columnar masses. 

ACTINOLITIC:  Of the nature of, or containing, actinolite. 

ACTINOLOGY:  The science which treats of rays of light, especially of the actinic or chemical rays. 

ACTINOMERE:  One of the radial segments composing the body of one of the Coelenterata. 

ACTINOMETRIC:  Pertaining to the measurement of the intensity of the solar rays, either (a) heating, or (b) actinic. 

ACTINOMYCOSIS:  A chronic infectious disease of cattle and man due to the presence of Actinomyces bovis. It causes local suppurating tumors, esp. about the jaw. Called also lumpy jaw or big jaw. -- Ac`ti*no*my*cot"ic (#), a. 

ACTINOPHONE:  An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of the actinic, or ultraviolet, rays. 

ACTINOPHONIC:  Pertaining to, or causing the production of, sound by means of the actinic, or ultraviolet, rays; as, actinophonic phenomena. 

ACTINOPHOROUS:  Having straight projecting spines. 

ACTINOSOME:  The entire body of a coelenterate. 

ACTINOST:  (Anat.) One of the bones at the base of a paired fin of a fish. 

ACTINOSTOME:  The mouth or anterior opening of a coelenterate animal. 

ACTINOTROCHA:  A peculiar larval form of Phoronis, a genus of marine worms, having a circle of ciliated tentacles. 

ACTINOZOA:  A group of Coelenterata, comprising the Anthozoa Ctenophora. The sea anemone, or actinia, is a familiar example. 

ACTINOZOAL:  Of or pertaining to the Actinozoa.  ACTINOZOON; ACTINOZOOEN Ac"ti*no*zo"ön, n. (Zoöl.)  One of the Actinozoa. 

ACTINULA:  A kind of embryo of certain hydroids (Tubularia), having a stellate form. 

ACTION:  Effective motion; also, mechanism; as, the breech action of a gun.  6. (Physiol.)  Any one of the active processes going on in an organism; the performance of a function; as, the action of the heart, the muscles, or the gastric juice.  7. (Orat.)  Gesticulation; the external deportment of the speaker, or the suiting of his attitude, voice, gestures, and countenance, to the subject, or to the feelings.  8. (Paint. & Sculp.)  The attitude or position of the several parts of the body as expressive of the sentiment or passion depicted.  9. (Law) (a) A suit or process, by which a demand is made of a right in a court of justice; in a broad sense, a judicial proceeding for the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense. (b) A right of action; as, the law gives an action for every claim.  10. (Com.)  A share in the capital stock of a joint-stock company, or in the public funds; hence, in the plural, equivalent to stocks. [A Gallicism] [Obs.] The Euripus of funds and actions. Burke.  11. An engagement between troops in war, whether on land or water; a battle; a fight; as, a general action, a partial action.  12. (Music)  The mechanical contrivance by means of which the impulse of the player's finger is transmitted to the strings of a pianoforte or to the valve of an organ pipe. Grove. Chose in action. (Law) See Chose.  -- Quantity of action (Physics), the product of the mass of a body by the space it runs through, and its velocity.  Syn.  -- Action, Act. In many cases action and act are synonymous; but some distinction is observable. Action involves the mode or process of acting, and is usually viewed as occupying some time in doing. Act has more reference to the effect, or the operation as complete. To poke the fire is an act, to reconcile friends who have quarreled is a praiseworthy action. C. J. Smith. 

ACTIONABLE:  That may be the subject of an action or suit at law; as, to call a man a thief is actionable. 

ACTIONABLY:  In an actionable manner.  ACTIONARY; ACTIONIST Ac"tion*a*ry, Ac"tion*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. actionnaire.] (Com.)  A shareholder in joint-stock company. [Obs.] 

ACTIONLESS:  Void of action. 

ACTIVATE:  To make active. [Obs.] 

ACTIVELY:  In an active signification; as, a word used actively. 

ACTIVENESS:  The quality of being active; nimbleness; quickness of motion; activity. 

ACTIVITY:  The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility; vigorous action or operation; energy; active force; as, an increasing variety of human activities. "The activity of toil." Palfrey.  Syn.  -- Liveliness; briskness; quickness. 

ACTLESS:  Without action or spirit. [R.] 

ACTON:  A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacket plated with mail. [Spelled also hacqueton.] [Obs.] Halliwell. Sir W. Scott. 

ACTUAL:  Something actually received; real, as distinct from estimated, receipts. [Cant] The accounts of revenues supplied . . . were not real receipts: not, in financial language, "actuals," but only Egyptian budget estimates. Fortnightly Review. 

ACTUALIST:  One who deals with or considers actually existing facts and conditions, rather than fancies or theories; -- opposed to idealist. J. Grote. 

ACTUALITY:  The state of being actual; reality; as, the actuality of God's nature. South. 

ACTUALIZATION:  A making actual or really existent. [R.] Emerson. 

ACTUALIZE:  To make actual; to realize in action. [R.] Coleridge. 

ACTUALNESS:  Quality of being actual; actuality. 

ACTUARIAL:  Of or pertaining to actuaries; as, the actuarial value of an annuity. 

ACTUARY:  A registar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil law jurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registar generally.  2. The computing official of an insurance company; one whose profession it is to calculate for insurance companies the risks and premiums for life, fire, and other insurances. 

ACTUATE:  Put in action; actuated. [Obs.] South. 

ACTUATION:  A bringing into action; movement. Bp. Pearson. 

ACTUATOR:  One who actuates, or puts into action. [R.] Melville. 

ACTUOSE:  Very active. [Obs.] 

ACTUOSITY:  Abundant activity. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

ACTURE:  Action. [Obs.] Shak. 

ACTURIENCE:  Tendency or impulse to act. [R.] Acturience, or desire of action, in one form or another, whether as restlessness, ennui, dissatisfaction, or the imagination of something desirable. J. Grote. 

ACUATE:  To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken. [Obs.] "[To] acuate the blood." Harvey. 

ACUATE:  Sharpened; sharp-pointed. 

ACUATION:  Act of sharpening. [R.] 

ACUITION:  The act of sharpening. [Obs.] 

ACUITY:  Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc. 

ACULEATE:  Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.  2. (Bot.)  Having prickles, or sharp points; beset with prickles.  3. Severe or stinging; incisive. [R.] Bacon. 

ACULEATED:  Having a sharp point; armed with prickles; prickly; aculeate. 

ACULEIFORM:  Like a prickle. 

ACULEOLATE:  Having small prickles or sharp points. Gray. 

ACULEOUS:  Aculeate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ACULEUS:  A prickle growing on the bark, as in some brambles and roses. Lindley.  2. (Zoöl.)  A sting. 

ACUMEN:  Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind; the faculty of nice discrimination. Selden.  Syn.  -- Sharpness; sagacity; keenness; shrewdness; acuteness. 

ACUMINATE:  Tapering to a point; pointed; as, acuminate leaves, teeth, etc. 

ACUMINATE:  To render sharp or keen. [R.] "To acuminate even despair." Cowper. 

ACUMINATE:  To end in, or come to, a sharp point. "Acuminating in a cone of prelacy." Milton. 

ACUMINATION:  A sharpening; termination in a sharp point; a tapering point. Bp. Pearson. 

ACUMINOSE:  Terminating in a flat, narrow end. Lindley. 

ACUMINOUS:  Characterized by acumen; keen. Highmore. 

ACUPRESSURE:  A mode of arresting hemorrhage resulting from wounds or surgical operations, by passing under the divided vessel a needle, the ends of which are left exposed externally on the cutaneous surface. Simpson. 

ACUPUNCTURATION:  See Acupuncture. 

ACUPUNCTURE:  Pricking with a needle; a needle prick. Specifically (Med.):  The insertion of needles into the living tissues for remedial purposes. 

ACUPUNCTURE:  To treat with acupuncture. 

ACUSTUMAUNCE:  See Accustomance. [Obs.] 

ACUTANGULAR:  Acute-angled. 

ACUTE:  Attended with symptoms of some degree of severity, and coming speedily to a crisis; -- opposed to chronic; as, an acute disease. Acute angle (Geom.), an angle less than a right angle.  Syn.  -- Subtile; ingenious; sharp; keen; penetrating; sagacious; sharp- witted; shrewd; discerning; discriminating. See Subtile. 

ACUTE:  To give an acute sound to; as, he acutes his rising inflection too much. [R.] Walker.  ACUTE-ANGLED A*cute"-*an`gled, a.  Having acute angles; as, an acute-angled triangle, a triangle with every one of its angles less than a right angle. 

ACUTELY:  In an acute manner; sharply; keenly; with nice discrimination. 

ACUTENESS:  Violence of a disease, which brings it speedily to a crisis.  Syn.  -- Penetration; sagacity; keenness; ingenuity; shrewdness; subtlety; sharp-wittedness. 

ACUTIFOLIATE:  Having sharp-pointed leaves. 

ACUTILOBATE:  Having acute lobes, as some leaves. 

ACUTORSION:  The twisting of an artery with a needle to arrest hemorrhage. 

ACYCLIC:  Not cyclic; not disposed in cycles or whorls; as: (a) (Bot.)  Of a flower, having its parts inserted spirally on the receptacle.  (b) (Org. Chem.) Having an open-chain structure; aliphatic. 

ACYL:  An acid radical, as acetyl, malonyl, or benzoyl.  AD- Ad-. Etym: [A Latin preposition, signifying to. See At.]  As a prefix ad- assumes the forms ac-, af-, ag-, al-, an-, ap-, ar-, as-, at-, assimilating the d with the first letter of the word to which ad- is prefixed. It remains unchanged before vowels, and before d, h, j, m, v. Examples: adduce, adhere, adjacent, admit, advent, accord, affect, aggregate, allude, annex, appear, etc. It becomes ac- before qu, as in acquiesce. 

ADACT:  To compel; to drive. [Obs.] Fotherby.  ADACTYL; ADACTYLOUS A*dac"tyl, A*dac"tyl*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.) (a) Without fingers or without toes. (b) Without claws on the feet (of crustaceous animals). 

ADAGE:  An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a proverb. Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would," Like the poor cat i' the adage. Shak.  Syn.  -- Axiom; maxim; aphorism; proverb; saying; saw; apothegm. See Axiom. 

ADAGIAL:  Pertaining to an adage; proverbial. "Adagial verse." Barrow. 

ADAGIO:  Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio, adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow. 

ADAGIO:  A piece of music in adagio time; a slow movement; as, an adagio of Haydn. 

ADAM:  "Original sin;" human frailty. And whipped the offending Adam out of him. Shak. Adam's ale, water. [Coll.] -- Adam's apple.  1. (Bot.) (a) A species of banana (Musa paradisiaca). It attains a height of twenty feet or more. Paxton]. (b) A species of lime (Citris limetta).  2. The projection formed by the thyroid cartilage in the neck. It is particularly prominent in males, and is so called from a notion that it was caused by the forbidden fruit (an apple) sticking in the throat of our first parent.  -- Adam's flannel (Bot.), the mullein (Verbascum thapsus).  -- Adam's needle (Bot.), the popular name of a genus (Yucca) of liliaceous plants. 

ADAMANTEAN:  Of adamant; hard as adamant. Milton. 

ADAMANTINE:  Like the diamond in hardness or luster. 

ADAMBULACRAL:  Next to the ambulacra; as, the adambulacral ossicles of the starfish.  ADAMIC; ADAMICAL A*dam"ic, A*dam"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to Adam, or resembling him. Adamic earth, a name given to common red clay, from a notion that Adam means red earth. 

ADAMITE:  One of a sect of visionaries, who, professing to imitate the state of Adam, discarded the use of dress in their assemblies.  ADAM'S APPLE Ad"am's ap"ple.  See under Adam. 

ADANCE:  Dancing. Lowell. 

ADANGLE:  Dangling. Browning. 

ADANSONIA:  A genus of great trees related to the Bombax. There are two species, A. digitata, the baobab or monkey-bread of Africa and India, and A. Gregorii, the sour gourd or cream-of-tartar tree of Australia. Both have a trunk of moderate height, but of enormous diameter, and a wide-spreading head. The fruit is oblong, and filled with pleasantly acid pulp. The wood is very soft, and the bark is used by the natives for making ropes and cloth. D. C. Eaton. 

ADAPT:  Fitted; suited. [Obs.] Swift. 

ADAPT:  To make suitable; to fit, or suit; to adjust; to alter so as to fit for a new use; -- sometimes followed by to or for. For nature, always in the right, To your decays adapts my sight. Swift. Appeals adapted to his [man's] whole nature. Angus. Streets ill adapted for the residence of wealthy persons. Macaulay.  ADAPTABILITY; ADAPTABLENESS A*dapt`a*bil"i*ty, A*dapt"a*ble*ness, n.  The quality of being adaptable; suitableness. "General adaptability for every purpose." Farrar. 

ADAPTABLE:  Capable of being adapted. 

ADAPTATIVE:  Adaptive. Stubbs. 

ADAPTEDNESS:  The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; special fitness. 

ADAPTER:  A connecting tube; an adopter. 

ADAPTION:  Adaptation. Cheyne. 

ADAPTIVE:  Suited, given, or tending, to adaptation; characterized by adaptation; capable of adapting. Coleridge.  -- A*dapt"ive*ly, adv. 

ADAPTIVENESS:  The quality of being adaptive; capacity to adapt. 

ADAPTLY:  In a suitable manner. [R.] Prior. 

ADAPTNESS:  Adaptedness. [R.] 

ADAPTORIAL:  Adaptive. [R.] 

ADAR:  The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and the sixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March. 

ADARCE:  A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds in Galatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansing the skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy. Dana. 

ADATIS:  A fine cotton cloth of India. 

ADAUNT:  To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate. [Obs.] Skelton. 

ADAW:  To subdue; to daunt. [Obs.] The sight whereof did greatly him adaw. Spenser. 

ADAW:  To awaken; to arouse. [Obs.] A man that waketh of his sleep He may not suddenly well taken keep Upon a thing, ne seen it parfitly Till that he be adawed verily. Chaucer. 

ADAYS:  By day, or every day; in the daytime. [Obs.] Fielding.  AD CAPTANDUM Ad cap*tan"dum. Etym: [L., for catching.]  A phrase used adjectively sometimes of meretricious attempts to catch or win popular favor. 

ADDABLE:  Addible. 

ADDAX:  One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, or Oryx, nasomaculatus).  Note: It is now believed to be the Strepsiceros (twisted horn) of the ancients. By some it is thought to be the pygarg of the Bible. 

ADDEEM:  To award; to adjudge. [Obs.] "Unto him they did addeem the prise." Spenser. 

ADDENDUM:  A thing to be added; an appendix or addition. Addendum circle (Mech.), the circle which may be described around a circular spur wheel or gear wheel, touching the crests or tips of the teeth. Rankine. 

ADDER:  One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for adding numbers. 

ADDER:  A dragon fly.  ADDER'S-TONGUE Ad"der's-tongue`, n. (Bot.) (a) A genus of ferns (Ophioglossum), whose seeds are produced on a spike resembling a serpent's tongue. (b) The yellow dogtooth violet. Gray. 

ADDERWORT:  The common bistort or snakeweed (Polygonum bistorta). 

ADDIBILITY:  The quantity of being addible; capability of addition. Locke. 

ADDIBLE:  Capable of being added. "Addible numbers." Locke. 

ADDICE:  See Adze. [Obs.] Moxon. 

ADDICT:  Addicted; devoted. [Obs.] 

ADDICTEDNESS:  The quality or state of being addicted; attachment. 

ADDICTION:  The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination. "His addiction was to courses vain." Shak.  ADDISON'S DISEASE Ad"di*son's dis*ease". Etym: [Named from Thomas Addison, M. D., of London, who first described it.] (Med.)  A morbid condition causing a peculiar brownish discoloration of the skin, and thought, at one time, to be due to disease of the suprarenal capsules (two flat triangular bodies covering the upper part of the kidneys), but now known not to be dependent upon this causes exclusively. It is usually fatal. 

ADDITAMENT:  An addition, or a thing added. Fuller. My persuasion that the latter verses of the chapter were an additament of a later age. Coleridge. 

ADDITION:  That part of arithmetic which treats of adding numbers.  4. (Mus.)  A dot at the right side of a note as an indication that its sound is to be lengthened one half. [R.]  5. (Law)  A title annexed to a man's name, to identify him more precisely; as, John Doe, Esq.; Richard Roe, Gent.; Robert Dale, Mason; Thomas Way, of New York; a mark of distinction; a title.  6. (Her.)  Something added to a coat of arms, as a mark of honor; -- opposed to abatement. Vector addition (Geom.), that kind of addition of two lines, or vectors, AB and BC, by which their sum is regarded as the line, or vector, AC.  Syn.  -- Increase; accession; augmentation; appendage; adjunct. 

ADDITIONAL:  Added; supplemental; in the way of an addition. 

ADDITIONAL:  Something added. [R.] Bacon. 

ADDITIONALLY:  By way of addition. 

ADDITIONARY:  Additional. [R.] Herbert. 

ADDITITIOUS:  Additive. [R.] Sir J. Herschel. 

ADDITIVE:  Proper to be added; positive; -- opposed to subtractive. 

ADDITORY:  Tending to add; making some addition. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

ADDLE:  Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, as eggs; putrid. Hence: Unfruitful or confused, as brains; muddled. Dryden. 

ADDLE:  To make addle; to grow addle; to muddle; as, he addled his brain. "Their eggs were addled." Cowper. 

ADDLE:  A foolish or dull-witted fellow. [Colloq.]  ADDLE-BRAINED; ADDLE-HEADED; ADDLE-PATED Ad"dle-brained`, Ad"dle-head`ed, Ad"dle-pa`ted, a.  Dull-witted; stupid. "The addle-brained Oberstein." Motley. Dull and addle-pated. Dryden.  ADDLE-PATEDNESS Ad"dle-pa`ted*ness, n.  Stupidity. 

ADDLINGS:  Earnings. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

ADDOOM:  To adjudge. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ADDORSED:  Set or turned back to back. 

ADDRESS:  To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or factor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore. To address one's self to. (a) To prepare one's self for; to apply one's self to. (b) To direct one's speech or discourse to. 

ADDRESSEE:  One to whom anything is addressed. 

ADDRESSION:  The act of addressing or directing one's course. [Rare & Obs.] Chapman. 

ADDUCE:  To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, or consideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege. Reasons . . . were adduced on both sides. Macaulay. Enough could not be adduced to satisfy the purpose of illustration. De Quincey.  Syn.  -- To present; allege; advance; cite; quote; assign; urge; name; mention. 

ADDUCENT:  Bringing together or towards a given point; -- a word applied to those muscles of the body which pull one part towards another. Opposed to abducent. 

ADDUCER:  One who adduces. 

ADDUCIBLE:  Capable of being adduced. Proofs innumerable, and in every imaginable manner diversified, are adducible. I. Taylor. 

ADDUCT:  To draw towards a common center or a middle line. Huxley. 

ADDUCTION:  The action by which the parts of the body are drawn towards its axis]; -- opposed to abduction. Dunglison. 

ADDUCTIVE:  Adducing, or bringing towards or to something. 

ADDUCTOR:  A muscle which draws a limb or part of the body toward the middle line of the body, or closes extended parts of the body; -- opposed to abductor; as, the adductor of the eye, which turns the eye toward the nose. In the bivalve shells, the muscles which close the values of the shell are called adductor muscles. Verrill. 

ADDULCE:  To sweeten; to soothe. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ADEEM:  To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by some other gift. 

ADELANTADILLO:  A Spanish red wine made of the first ripe grapes. 

ADELANTADO:  A governor of a province; a commander. Prescott. 

ADELASTER:  A provisional name for a plant which has not had its flowers botanically examined, and therefore has not been referred to its proper genus. 

ADELING:  Same as Atheling. 

ADELOCODONIC:  Applied to sexual zooids of hydroids, that have a saclike form and do not become free; -- opposed to phanerocodonic. 

ADELOPOD:  An animal having feet that are not apparent. 

ADELPHIA:  A "brotherhood," or collection of stamens in a bundle; -- used in composition, as in the class names, Monadelphia, Diadelphia, etc. 

ADELPHOUS:  Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens; as, adelphous stamens. Usually in composition; as, monadelphous. Gray. 

ADEMPT:  Takes away. [Obs.] Without any sinister suspicion of anything being added or adempt. Latimn. 

ADEMPTION:  The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, or the like. Bouvier.  ADEN-; ADENO- Aden- or Adeno-. Etym: [Gr.  Combining forms of the Greek word for gland; -- used in words relating to the structure, diseases, etc., of the glands.  ADENALGIA; ADENALGY Ad`e*nal"gi*a, Ad"e*nal`gy, n. Etym: [Gr.  (Med.) Pain in a gland. 

ADENIFORM:  Shaped like a gland; adenoid. Dunglison. 

ADENITIS:  Glandular inflammation. Dunglison. 

ADENOGRAPHIC:  Pertaining to adenography. 

ADENOGRAPHY:  That part of anatomy which describes the glands.  ADENOID; ADENOIDAL Ad"e*noid, Ad`e*noid"al a.  Glandlike; glandular. 

ADENOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to adenology. 

ADENOLOGY:  The part of physiology that treats of the glands. 

ADENOMA:  A benign tumor of a glandlike structure; morbid enlargement of a gland. -- Ad`e*nom"a*tous, a. 

ADENOPATHY:  Disease of a gland. 

ADENOPHOROUS:  Producing glands. 

ADENOPHYLLOUS:  Having glands on the leaves. 

ADENOSCLEROSIS:  The hardening of a gland. 

ADENOSE:  Like a gland; full of glands; glandulous; adenous. 

ADENOTOMIC:  Pertaining to adenotomy. 

ADENOTOMY:  Dissection of, or incision into, a gland or glands. 

ADENOUS:  Same as Adenose.  ADEN ULCER A"den ul"cer. [So named after Aden, a seaport in Southern Arabia, where it occurs.] (Med.)  A disease endemic in various parts of tropical Asia, due to a specific microörganism which produces chronic ulcers on the limbs. It is often fatal. Called also Cochin China ulcer, Persian ulcer, tropical ulcer, etc. 

ADEPS:  Animal fat; lard. 

ADEPT:  One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as, adepts in philosophy. 

ADEPT:  Well skilled; completely versed; thoroughly proficient. Beaus adept in everything profound. Cowper. 

ADEPTION:  An obtaining; attainment. [Obs.] In the wit and policy of the capitain consisteth the chief adeption of the victory. Grafton. 

ADEPTIST:  A skilled alchemist. [Obs.] 

ADEPTNESS:  The quality of being adept; skill. 

ADEQUACY:  The state or quality of being adequate, proportionate, or sufficient; a sufficiency for a particular purpose; as, the adequacy of supply to the expenditure. 

ADEQUATE:  Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent; fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequate definition. Ireland had no adequate champion. De Quincey.  Syn.  -- Proportionate; commensurate; sufficient; suitable; competent; capable. 

ADEQUATELY:  In an adequate manner. 

ADEQUATENESS:  The quality of being adequate; suitableness; sufficiency; adequacy. 

ADEQUATION:  The act of equalizing; act or result of making adequate; an equivalent. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow. 

ADESMY:  The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usually entire. 

ADESSENARIAN:  One who held the real presence of Christ's body in the eucharist, but not by transubstantiation. 

ADFECTED:  See Affected, 5. 

ADFILIATED:  See Affiliated. [Obs.] 

ADFILIATION:  See Affiliation. [Obs.] 

ADFLUXION:  See Affluxion. 

ADHAMANT:  Clinging, as by hooks. 

ADHERENT:  Congenitally united with an organ of another kind, as calyx with ovary, or stamens with petals. 

ADHERENTLY:  In an adherent manner. 

ADHERER:  One who adheres; an adherent. 

ADHESION:  The molecular attraction exerted between bodies in contact. See Cohesion.  5. (Med.)  Union of surface, normally separate, by the formation of new tissue resulting from an inflammatory process.  6. (Bot.)  The union of parts which are separate in other plants, or in younger states of the same plant.  Syn.  -- Adherence; union. See Adherence. 

ADHESIVELY:  In an adhesive manner. 

ADHESIVENESS:  Propensity to form and maintain attachments to persons, and to promote social intercourse. 

ADHIBITION:  The act of adhibiting; application; use. Whitaker.  AD HOMINEM Ad hom"i*nem. Etym: [L., to the man.]  ` phrase applied to an appeal or argument addressed to the principles, interests, or passions of a man. 

ADHORT:  To exhort; to advise. [Obs.] Feltham. 

ADHORTATION:  Advice; exhortation. [Obs.] Peacham. 

ADHORTATORY:  Containing counsel or warning; hortatory; advisory. [Obs.] Potter. 

ADIABATIC:  Not giving out or receiving heat.  -- Ad`i*a*bat`ic*al*ly, adv. Adiabatic line or curve, a curve exhibiting the variations of pressure and volume of a fluid when it expands without either receiving or giving out heat. Rankine. 

ADIACTINIC:  Not transmitting the actinic rays. 

ADIANTUM:  A genus of ferns, the leaves of which shed water; maidenhair. Also, the black maidenhair, a species of spleenwort. 

ADIAPHORISM:  Religious indifference. 

ADIAPHORIST:  One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held some opinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, which Luther condemned as sinful or heretical. Murdock. 

ADIAPHORISTIC:  Pertaining to matters indifferent in faith and practice. Shipley. 

ADIAPHORITE:  Same as Adiaphorist. 

ADIAPHOROUS:  Incapable of doing either harm or good, as some medicines. Dunglison. 

ADIAPHORY:  Indifference. [Obs.] 

ADIATHERMIC:  Not pervious to heat. 

ADIEU:  Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting. 

ADIEU:  A farewell; commendation to the care of God at parting. Shak. 

ADIGHT:  To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress. [Obs.]  AD INFINITUM Ad in`fi*ni"tum. Etym: [L., to infinity.]  Without limit; endlessly.  AD INTERIM Ad in"ter*imEtym: [L.]  Meanwhile; temporary. 

ADIOS:  Adieu; farewell; good-by; -- chiefly used among Spanish- speaking people.   This word is often pronounced å*de"os, but the Spanish accent, though weak, is on the final syllable. 

ADIPESCENT:  Becoming fatty. 

ADIPIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; -- applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitric acid. 

ADIPOCERATE:  To convert adipocere. 

ADIPOCERATION:  The act or process of changing into adipocere. 

ADIPOCERE:  A soft, unctuous, or waxy substance, of a light brown color, into which the fat and muscle tissue of dead bodies sometimes are converted, by long immersion in water or by burial in moist places. It is a result of fatty degeneration. 

ADIPOCERIFORM:  Having the form or appearance of adipocere; as, an adipoceriform tumor. 

ADIPOCEROUS:  Like adipocere. 

ADIPOGENOUS:  Producing fat. 

ADIPOLYSIS:  The digestion of fats. 

ADIPOLYTIC:  Hydrolyzing fats; converting neutral fats into glycerin and free fatty acids, esp. by the action of an enzyme; as, adipolytic action. 

ADIPOMA:  A mass of fat found internally; also, a fatty tumor. -- Ad`i*pom"a*tous, a. 

ADIPOSE:  Of or pertaining to animal fat; fatty. Adipose fin (Zoöl.), a soft boneless fin.  -- Adipose tissue (Anat.), that form of animal tissue which forms or contains fat.  ADIPOSENESS; ADIPOSITY Ad"i*pose`ness, Ad`i*pos"i*ty, n.  The state of being fat; fatness. 

ADIPOUS:  Fatty; adipose. [R.] 

ADIPSOUS:  Quenching thirst, as certain fruits. 

ADIPSY:  Absence of thirst. 

ADJACENT:  Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on; as, a field adjacent to the highway. "The adjacent forest." B. Jonson. Adjacent or contiguous angle. (Geom.) See Angle.  Syn.  -- Adjoining; contiguous; near.  -- Adjacent, Adjoining, Contiguous. Things are adjacent when they lie close each other, not necessary in actual contact; as, adjacent fields, adjacent villages, etc. I find that all Europe with her adjacent isles is peopled with Christians. Howell. Things are adjoining when they meet at some line or point of junction; as, adjoining farms, an adjoining highway. What is spoken of as contiguous should touch with some extent of one side or the whole of it; as, a row of contiguous buildings; a wood contiguous to a plain. 

ADJACENT:  That which is adjacent. [R.] Locke. 

ADJACENTLY:  So as to be adjacent. 

ADJECT:  To add or annex; to join. Leland. 

ADJECTION:  The act or mode of adding; also, the thing added. [R.] B. Jonson. 

ADJECTIONAL:  Pertaining to adjection; that is, or may be, annexed. [R.] Earle. 

ADJECTITIOUS:  Added; additional. Parkhurst. 

ADJECTIVAL:  Of or relating to the relating to the adjective; of the nature of an adjective; adjective. W. Taylor (1797) 

ADJECTIVALLY:  As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively. 

ADJECTIVE:  A word used with a noun, or substantive, to express a quality of the thing named, or something attributed to it, or to limit or define it, or to specify or describe a thing, as distinct from something else. Thus, in phrase, "a wise ruler," wise is the adjective, expressing a property of ruler.  2. A dependent; an accessory. Fuller. 

ADJECTIVE:  To make an adjective of; to form or change into an adjective. [R.] Language has as much occasion to adjective the distinct signification of the verb, and to adjective also the mood, as it has to adjective time. It has . . . adjectived all three. Tooke. 

ADJECTIVELY:  In the manner of an adjective; as, a word used adjectively. 

ADJOIN:  To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contact with; to attach; to append. Corrections . . . should be, as remarks, adjoined by way of note. Watts. 

ADJOINANT:  Contiguous. [Obs.] Carew. 

ADJOINING:  Joining to; contiguous; adjacent; as, an adjoining room. "The adjoining fane." Dryden. Upon the hills adjoining to the city. Shak.  Syn.  -- Adjacent; contiguous; near; neighboring; abutting; bordering. See Adjacent. 

ADJOINT:  An adjunct; a helper. [Obs.] 

ADJOURN:  To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; to postpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of the meeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting; to adjourn a debate. It is a common practice to adjourn the reformation of their lives to a further time. Barrow. 'Tis a needful fitness That we adjourn this court till further day. Shak.  Syn.  -- To delay; defer; postpone; put off; suspend.  -- To Adjourn, Prorogue, Dissolve. These words are used in respect to public bodies when they lay aside business and separate. Adjourn, both in Great Britain and this country, is applied to all cases in which such bodies separate for a brief period, with a view to meet again. Prorogue is applied in Great Britain to that act of the executive government, as the sovereign, which brings a session of Parliament to a close. The word is not used in this country, but a legislative body is said, in such a case, to adjourn sine die. To dissolve is to annul the corporate existence of a body. In order to exist again the body must be reconstituted. 

ADJOURN:  To suspend business for a time, as from one day to another, or for a longer period, or indefinitely; usually, to suspend public business, as of legislatures and courts, or other convened bodies; as, congress adjourned at four o'clock; the court adjourned without day. 

ADJOURNAL:  Adjournment; postponement. [R.] "An adjournal of the Diet." Sir W. Scott. 

ADJUDGER:  One who adjudges. 

ADJUDGMENT:  The act of adjudging; judicial decision; adjudication. Sir W. Temple. 

ADJUDICATE:  To adjudge; to try and determine, as a court; to settle by judicial decree. 

ADJUDICATE:  To come to a judicial decision; as, the court adjudicated upon the case. 

ADJUDICATION:  The decision upon the question whether the debtor is a bankrupt. Abbott.  4. (Scots Law)  A process by which land is attached security or in satisfaction of a debt. 

ADJUDICATIVE:  Adjudicating. 

ADJUDICATOR:  One who adjudicates. 

ADJUDICATURE:  Adjudication. 

ADJUGATE:  To yoke to. [Obs.] 

ADJUMENT:  Help; support; also, a helper. [Obs.] Waterhouse. 

ADJUNCT:  Conjoined; attending; consequent. Though that my death were adjunct to my act. Shak. Adjunct notes (Mus.), short notes between those essential to the harmony; auxiliary notes; passing notes. 

ADJUNCT:  A word or words added to quality or amplify the force of other words; as, the History of the American Revolution, where the words in italics are the adjunct or adjuncts of "History."  4. (Metaph.)  A quality or property of the body or the mind, whether natural or acquired; as, color, in the body, judgment in the mind.  5. (Mus.)  A key or scale closely related to another as principal; a relative or attendant key. [R.] See Attendant keys, under Attendant, a. 

ADJUNCTION:  The act of joining; the thing joined or added. 

ADJUNCTIVE:  Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct. 

ADJUNCTIVE:  One who, or that which, is joined. 

ADJUNCTIVELY:  In an adjunctive manner. 

ADJUNCTLY:  By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with. 

ADJURATORY:  Containing an adjuration. 

ADJURE:  To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, or under the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn or impressive manner; to entreat earnestly. Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before the Lord, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho. Josh. vi. 26. The high priest . . . said . . . I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ. Matt. xxvi. 63. The commissioners adjured them not to let pass so favorable an opportunity of securing their liberties. Marshall. 

ADJURER:  One who adjures. 

ADJUSTABLE:  Capable of being adjusted. 

ADJUSTAGE:  Adjustment. [R.] 

ADJUSTER:  One who, or that which, adjusts.  ADJUSTING PLANE; ADJUSTING SURFACE Adjusting plane or surface. (Aëronautics)  A small plane or surface, usually capable of adjustment but not of manipulation, for preserving lateral balance in an aëroplane or flying machine. 

ADJUSTIVE:  Tending to adjust. [R.] 

ADJUSTMENT:  Settlement of claims; an equitable arrangement of conflicting claims, as in set-off, contribution, exoneration, subrogation, and marshaling. Bispham.  3. The operation of bringing all the parts of an instrument, as a microscope or telescope, into their proper relative position for use; the condition of being thus adjusted; as, to get a good adjustment; to be in or out of adjustment.  Syn.  -- Suiting; fitting; arrangement; regulation; settlement; adaptation; disposition. 

ADJUTAGE:  Same as Ajutage. 

ADJUTANT:  A regimental staff officer, who assists the colonel, or commanding officer of a garrison or regiment, in the details of regimental and garrison duty. Adjutant general (a) (Mil.), the principal staff officer of an army, through whom the commanding general receives communications and issues military orders. In the U. S. army he is brigadier general. (b) (Among the Jesuits), one of a select number of fathers, who resided with the general of the order, each of whom had a province or country assigned to his care.  3. (Zoöl.)  A species of very large stork (Ciconia argala), a native of India; -- called also the gigantic crane, and by the native name argala. It is noted for its serpent-destroying habits. 

ADJUTATOR:  A corruption of Agitator. 

ADJUTE:  To add. [Obs.] 

ADJUTOR:  A helper or assistant. [Archaic] Drayton. 

ADJUTORY:  Serving to help or assist; helping. [Obs.] 

ADJUTRIX:  A female helper or assistant. [R.] 

ADJUVANT:  Helping; helpful; assisting. [R.] "Adjuvant causes." Howell. 

ADJUVANT:  An ingredient, in a prescription, which aids or modifies the action of the principal ingredient. 

ADLEGATION:  A right formerly claimed by the states of the German Empire of joining their own ministers with those of the emperor in public treaties and negotiations to the common interest of the empire. Encyc. Brit.  AD LIBITUM Ad lib"i*tum  . At one's pleasure; as one wishes. 

ADLOCUTION:  See Allocution. [Obs.] 

ADMARGINATE:  To write in the margin. [R.] Coleridge. 

ADMAXILLARY:  Near to the maxilla or jawbone. 

ADMEASURE:  To determine the proper share of, or the proper apportionment; as, to admeasure dower; to admeasure common of pasture. Blackstone.  2. The measure of a thing; dimensions; size.  3. (Law)  Formerly, the adjustment of proportion, or ascertainment of shares, as of dower or pasture held in common. This was by writ of admeasurement, directed to the sheriff. 

ADMEASURER:  One who admeasures. 

ADMENSURATION:  Same as Admeasurement. 

ADMINICLE:  Corroborative or explanatory proof.  Note: In Scots law, any writing tending to establish the existence or terms of a lost deed. Bell. 

ADMINICULAR:  Supplying help; auxiliary; corroborative; explanatory; as, adminicular evidence. H. Spencer. 

ADMINICULARY:  Adminicular. 

ADMINISTER:  To settle, as the estate of one who dies without a will, or whose will fails of an executor.  Syn.  -- To manage; conduct; minister; supply; dispense; give out; distribute; furnish. 

ADMINISTER:  To perform the office of administrator; to act officially; as, A administers upon the estate of B. 

ADMINISTER:  Administrator. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ADMINISTERIAL:  Pertaining to administration, or to the executive part of government. 

ADMINISTRABLE:  Capable of being administered; as, an administrable law. 

ADMINISTRANT:  Executive; acting; managing affairs.  -- n.  One who administers. 

ADMINISTRATE:  To administer. [R.] Milman. 

ADMINISTRATIVE:  Pertaining to administration; administering; executive; as, an administrative body, ability, or energy.  -- Ad*min"is*tra`tive*ly, adv. 

ADMINISTRATOR:  A man who manages or settles the estate of an intestate, or of a testator when there is no competent executor; one to whom the right of administration has been committed by competent authority. 

ADMINISTRATORSHIP:  The position or office of an administrator. 

ADMINISTRATRIX:  A woman who administers; esp., one who administers the estate of an intestate, or to whom letters of administration have been granted; a female administrator. 

ADMIRABILITY:  Admirableness. [R.] Johnson. 

ADMIRABLENESS:  The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence. 

ADMIRABLY:  In an admirable manner. 

ADMIRAL:  A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America. The larva feeds on nettles. Admiral shell (Zoöl.), the popular name of an ornamental cone shell (Conus admiralis). Lord High Admiral, a great officer of state, who (when this rare dignity is conferred) is at the head of the naval administration of Great Britain. 

ADMIRALSHIP:  The office or position oaf an admiral; also, the naval skill of an admiral. 

ADMIRANCE:  Admiration. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ADMIRATIVE:  Relating to or expressing admiration or wonder. [R.] Earle. 

ADMIRE:  To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; -- sometimes with at. To wonder at Pharaoh, and even admire at myself. Fuller. 

ADMIRER:  One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly. Cowper. 

ADMIRING:  Expressing admiration; as, an admiring glance.  -- Ad*mir"ing*ly, adv. Shak. 

ADMISSIBILITY:  The quality of being admissible; admissibleness; as, the admissibility of evidence. 

ADMISSIBLE:  Entitled to be admitted, or worthy of being admitted; that may be allowed or conceded; allowable; as, the supposition is hardly admissible.  -- Ad*mis"si*ble*ness, n.  -- Ad*mis"si*bly, adv. 

ADMISSION:  Acquiescence or concurrence in a statement made by another, and distinguishable from a confession in that an admission presupposes prior inquiry by another, but a confession may be made without such inquiry.  5. A fact, point, or statement admitted; as, admission made out of court are received in evidence.  6. (Eng. Eccl. Law)  Declaration of the bishop that he approves of the presentee as a fit person to serve the cure of the church to which he is presented. Shipley.  Syn.  -- Admittance; concession; acknowledgment; concurrence; allowance. See Admittance. 

ADMISSIVE:  Implying an admission; tending to admit. [R.] Lamb. 

ADMISSORY:  Pertaining to admission. 

ADMITTABLE:  Admissible. Sir T. Browne. 

ADMITTANCE:  The act of giving possession of a copyhold estate. Bouvier.  Syn.  -- Admission; access; entrance; initiation.  -- Admittance, Admission. These words are, to some extent, in a state of transition and change. Admittance is now chiefly confined to its primary sense of access into some locality or building. Thus we see on the doors of factories, shops, etc. "No admittance." Its secondary or moral sense, as "admittance to the church," is almost entirely laid aside. Admission has taken to itself the secondary or figurative senses; as, admission to the rights of citizenship; admission to the church; the admissions made by one of the parties in a dispute. And even when used in its primary sense, it is not identical with admittance. Thus, we speak of admission into a country, territory, and other larger localities, etc., where admittance could not be used. So, when we speak of admission to a concert or other public assembly, the meaning is not perhaps exactly that of admittance, viz., access within the walls of the building, but rather a reception into the audience, or access to the performances. But the lines of distinction on this subject are one definitely drawn. 

ADMITTATUR:  The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.  ADMITTED; ADMITTEDLY Ad*mit"ted, a.  Received as true or valid; acknowledged.  -- Ad*mit"ted*ly adv.  Confessedly. 

ADMITTER:  One who admits. 

ADMIX:  To mingle with something else; to mix. [R.] 

ADMIXTION:  A mingling of different things; admixture. Glanvill. 

ADMONISHER:  One who admonishes. 

ADMONISHMENT:  Admonition. [R.] Shak. 

ADMONITION:  Gentle or friendly reproof; counseling against a fault or error; expression of authoritative advice; friendly caution or warning.  Syn.  -- Admonition, Reprehension, Reproof. Admonition is prospective, and relates to moral delinquencies; its object is to prevent further transgression. Reprehension and reproof are retrospective, the former being milder than the latter. A person of any age or station may be liable to reprehension in case of wrong conduct; but reproof is the act of a superior. It is authoritative fault-finding or censure addressed to children or to inferiors. 

ADMONITIONER:  Admonisher. [Obs.] 

ADMONITIVE:  Admonitory. [R.] Barrow.  -- Ad*mon"i*tive*ly, adv. 

ADMONITOR:  Admonisher; monitor. Conscience is at most times a very faithful and prudent admonitor. Shenstone. 

ADMONITORIAL:  Admonitory. [R.] "An admonitorial tone." Dickens. 

ADMONITORY:  That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, an admonitory glance.  -- Ad*mon"i*to*ri*ly,, adv. 

ADMONITRIX:  A female admonitor. 

ADMORTIZATION:  The reducing or lands or tenements to mortmain. See Mortmain. 

ADMOVE:  To move or conduct to or toward. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ADNASCENT:  Growing to or on something else. "An adnascent plant." Evelyn. 

ADNATE:  Grown to congenitally.  2. (Bot.)  Growing together; -- said only of organic cohesion of unlike parts. An anther is adnate when fixed by its whole length to the filament. Gray.  3. (Zoöl.)  Growing with one side adherent to a stem; -- a term applied to the lateral zooids of corals and other compound animals. 

ADNATION:  The adhesion or cohesion of different floral verticils or sets of organs. 

ADNOMINAL:  Pertaining to an adnoun; adjectival; attached to a noun. Gibbs.  -- Ad*nom"i*nal*ly, adv. 

ADNOUN:  An adjective, or attribute. [R.] Coleridge. 

ADNUBILATED:  Clouded; obscured. [R.] 

ADOBE:  An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective, as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico. 

ADOLESCENCE:  The state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood; youth, or the period of life between puberty and maturity, generally considered to be, in the male sex, from fourteen to twenty-one. Sometimes used with reference to the lower animals. 

ADOLESCENCY:  The quality of being adolescent; youthfulness. 

ADOLESCENT:  Growing; advancing from childhood to maturity. Schools, unless discipline were doubly strong, Detain their adolescent charge too long. Cowper. 

ADOLESCENT:  A youth. 

ADONAI:  A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testament by the word "Lord".   The later Jews used its vowel points to fill out the tetragrammaton Yhvh, or Ihvh, "the incommunicable name," and in reading substituted "Adonai". 

ADONEAN:  Pertaining to Adonis; Adonic. "Fair Adonean Venus." Faber. 

ADONIC:  Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty.  -- n.  An Adonic verse. Adonic verse, a verse consisting of a dactyl and spondee. 

ADONIS:  A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in the chase by a wild boar.  2. A preëminently beautiful young man; a dandy.  3. (Bot.)  A genus of plants of the family Ranunculaceæ, containing the pheasaut's eye (Adonis autumnalis); -- named from Adonis, whose blood was fabled to have stained the flower. 

ADONIST:  One who maintains that points of the Hebrew word translated "Jehovah" are really the vowel points of the word "Adonai." See Jehovist. 

ADONIZE:  To beautify; to dandify. I employed three good hours at least in adjusting and adonozing myself. Smollett.  ADOOR; ADOORS A*door, A*doors,  At the door; of the door; as, out adoors. Shak. I took him in adoors. Vicar's Virgil (1630). 

ADOPTABLE:  Capable of being adopted. 

ADOPTED:  Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son, citizen, country, word.  -- A*dopt"ed*ly, adv. 

ADOPTER:  A receiver, with two necks, opposite to each other, one of which admits the neck of a retort, and the other is joined to another receiver. It is used in distillations, to give more space to elastic vapors, to increase the length of the neck of a retort, or to unite two vessels whose openings have different diameters. [Written also adapter.] 

ADOPTIONIST:  One of a sect which maintained that Christ was the Son of God not by nature but by adoption. 

ADOPTIOUS:  Adopted. [Obs.] 

ADOPTIVE:  Pertaining to adoption; made or acquired by adoption; fitted to adopt; as, an adoptive father, an child; an adoptive language.  -- A*dopt"ive*ly, adv. 

ADORABILITY:  Adorableness. 

ADORABLENESS:  The quality of being adorable, or worthy of adoration. Johnson. 

ADORABLY:  In an adorable manner. 

ADORE:  To adorn. [Obs.] Congealed little drops which do the morn adore. Spenser. 

ADOREMENT:  The act of adoring; adoration. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ADORER:  One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly; an ardent admirer. "An adorer of truth." Clarendon. I profess myself her adorer, not her friend. Shak. 

ADORINGLY:  With adoration. 

ADORN:  To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to advantage; to render pleasing or attractive. As a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. Isa. lxi. 10. At church, with meek and unaffected grace, His looks adorned the venerable place. Goldsmith.  Syn.  -- To deck; decorate; embellish; ornament; beautify; grace; dignify; exalt; honor.  -- To Adorn, Ornament, Decorate, Embellish. We decorate and ornament by putting on some adjunct which is attractive or beautiful, and which serves to heighten the general effect. Thus, a lady's head- dress may be ornament or decorated with flowers or jewelry; a hall may be decorated or ornament with carving or gilding, with wreaths of flowers, or with hangings. Ornament is used in a wider sense than decorate. To embellish is to beautify or ornament richly, not so much by mere additions or details as by modifying the thing itself as a whole. It sometimes means gaudy and artificial decoration. We embellish a book with rich engravings; a style is embellished with rich and beautiful imagery; a shopkeeper embellishes his front window to attract attention. Adorn is sometimes identical with decorate, as when we say, a lady was adorned with jewels. In other cases, it seems to imply something more. Thus, we speak of a gallery of paintings as adorned with the works of some of the great masters, or adorned with noble statuary and columns. Here decorated and ornamented would hardly be appropriate. There is a value in these works of genius beyond mere show and ornament. Adorn may be used of what is purely moral; as, a character adorned with every Christian grace. Here neither decorate, nor ornament, nor embellish is proper. 

ADORN:  Adornment. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ADORN:  Adorned; decorated. [Obs.] Milton. 

ADORNATION:  Adornment. [Obs.] 

ADORNER:  He who, or that which, adorns; a beautifier. 

ADORNINGLY:  By adorning; decoratively. 

ADORNMENT:  An adorning; an ornament; a decoration. 

ADOSCULATION:  Impregnation by external contact, without intromission. 

ADOWN:  From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or on the ground. [Archaic] "Thrice did she sink adown." Spenser. 

ADOWN:  Down. [Archaic & Poetic] Her hair adown her shoulders loosely lay displayed. Prior. 

ADPRESS:  See Appressed.  -- Ad*pressed",, a. 

ADRAD:  Put in dread; afraid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ADRAGANT:  Gum tragacanth. Brande & C. 

ADREAD:  To dread. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

ADREAMED:  Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, to dream. [Obs.] 

ADRENAL:  Suprarenal.  ADRENALINE; ADRENALIN Ad*re"nal*ine, n. Also Ad*re"nal*in. (Physiol. Chem.)  A crystalline substance, C9H13O3N, obtained from suprarenal extract, of which it is regarded as the active principle. It is used in medicine as a stimulant and hemostatic. 

ADRIAN:  Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows. 

ADRIATIC:  Of or pertaining to a sea so named, the northwestern part of which is known as the Gulf of Venice. 

ADRIFT:  Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy of wind and waves. Also fig. So on the sea shall be set adrift. Dryden. Were from their daily labor turned adrift. Wordsworth. 

ADRIP:  In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip. D. G. Mitchell. 

ADROGATE:  To adopt (a person who is his own master). 

ADROGATION:  A kind of adoption in ancient Rome. See Arrogation. 

ADROIT:  Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied to persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply. "Adroit in the application of the telescope and quadrant." Horsley. "He was adroit in intrigue." Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Dexterous; skillful; expert; ready; clever; deft; ingenious; cunning; ready-witted. 

ADROITLY:  In an adroit manner. 

ADROITNESS:  The quality of being adroit; skill and readiness; dexterity. Adroitness was as requisite as courage. Motley.  Syn.  -- See Skill. 

ADRY:  In a dry or thirsty condition. "A man that is adry." Burton. 

ADSCITITIOUS:  Supplemental; additional; adventitious; ascititious. "Adscititious evidence." Bowring.  -- Ad`sci*ti"tious*ly, adv. 

ADSCRIPT:  Held to service as attached to the soil; -- said of feudal serfs. 

ADSCRIPT:  One held to service as attached to the glebe or estate; a feudal serf. Bancroft. 

ADSCRIPTIVE:  Attached or annexed to the glebe or estate and transferable with it. Brougham. 

ADSIGNIFICATION:  Additional signification. [R.] Tooke. 

ADSIGNIFY:  To denote additionally. [R.] Tooke. 

ADSTRICT:  See Astrict, and Astriction. 

ADSTRICTORY:  See Astrictory. 

ADSTRINGENT:  See Astringent.  ADSUKI BEAN Ad*su"ki bean. [Jap. adzuki.]  A cultivated variety of the Asiatic gram, now introduced into the United States. 

ADULARIA:  A transparent or translucent variety of common feldspar, or orthoclase, which often shows pearly opalescent reflections; -- called by lapidaries moonstone. 

ADULATE:  To flatter in a servile way. Byron. 

ADULATION:  Servile flattery; praise in excess, or beyond what is merited. Think'st thou the fiery fever will go out With titles blown from adulation Shak.  Syn.  -- Sycophancy; cringing; fawning; obsequiousness; blandishment.  -- Adulation, Flattery, Compliment. Men deal in compliments from a desire to please; they use flattery either from undue admiration, or a wish to gratify vanity; they practice adulation from sordid motives, and with a mingled spirit of falsehood and hypocrisy. Compliment may be a sincere expression of due respect and esteem, or it may be unmeaning; flattery is apt to become gross; adulation is always servile, and usually fulsome. 

ADULATOR:  A servile or hypocritical flatterer. Carlyle. 

ADULATORY:  Containing excessive praise or compliment; servilely praising; flattering; as, an adulatory address. A mere rant of adulatory freedom. Burke. 

ADULATRESS:  A woman who flatters with servility. 

ADULT:  Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength; matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age. 

ADULT:  A person, animal, or plant grown to full size and strength; one who has reached maturity.  Note: In the common law, the term is applied to a person who has attained full age or legal majority; in the civil law, to males after the age of fourteen, and to females after twelve. 

ADULTER:  To commit adultery; to pollute. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

ADULTERANT:  That which is used to adulterate anything.  -- a. Adulterating; as, adulterant agents and processes. 

ADULTERATE:  To commit adultery. [Obs.] 

ADULTERATOR:  One who adulterates or corrupts. [R.] Cudworth. 

ADULTERER:  A man who violates his religious covenant. Jer. ix. 2. 

ADULTERESS:  A woman who violates her religious engagements. James iv. 4. 

ADULTERINE:  Proceeding from adulterous intercourse. Hence: Spurious; without the support of law; illegal. When any particular class of artificers or traders thought proper to act as a corporation without a charter, such were called adulterine guilds. Adam Smith. 

ADULTERINE:  An illegitimate child. [R.] 

ADULTERIZE:  To commit adultery. Milton. 

ADULTEROUSLY:  In an adulterous manner. 

ADULTERY:  The fine and penalty imposed for the offense of adultery.  5. (Eccl.)  The intrusion of a person into a bishopric during the life of the bishop.  6. Injury; degradation; ruin. [Obs.] You might wrest the caduceus out of my hand to the adultery and spoil of nature. B. Jonson. 

ADULTNESS:  The state of being adult. 

ADUMBRANT:  Giving a faint shadow, or slight resemblance; shadowing forth. 

ADUMBRATION:  The shadow or outlines of a figure. 

ADUMBRATIVE:  Faintly representing; typical. Carlyle. 

ADUNATION:  A uniting; union. Jer. Taylor.  ADUNC; ADUNQUE A*dunc", A*dunque", a. (Zoöl.)  Hooked; as, a parrot has an adunc bill. 

ADUNCITY:  Curvature inwards; hookedness. The aduncity of the beaks of hawks. Pope. 

ADUNCOUS:  Curved inwards; hooked. 

ADURE:  To burn up. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ADUROL:  Either of two compounds, a chlorine derivative and bromine derivative, of hydroquinone, used as developers. 

ADUST:  Having much heat in the constitution and little serum in the blood. [Obs.] Hence: Atrabilious; sallow; gloomy. 

ADUSTED:  Burnt; adust. [Obs.] Howell. 

ADUSTIBLE:  That may be burnt. [Obs.] 

ADUSTION:  Cauterization. Buchanan.  AD VALOREM Ad va*lo"rem. Etym: [L., according to the value.] (Com.)  A term used to denote a duty or charge laid upon goods, at a certain rate per cent upon their value, as stated in their invoice, - - in opposition to a specific sum upon a given quantity or number; as, an ad valorem duty of twenty per cent. 

ADVANCE:  Before in place, or beforehand in time; -- used for advanced; as, an advance guard, or that before the main guard or body of an army; advance payment, or that made before it is due; advance proofs, advance sheets, pages of a forthcoming volume, received in advance of the time of publication. 

ADVANCEMENT:  Property given, usually by a parent to a child, in advance of a future distribution.  4. Settlement on a wife, or jointure. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ADVANCER:  The front edge (in direction of motion) of a supporting surface; -- contr. with following edge, which is the rear edge.  ADVANCING SURFACE Ad*van"cing sur"face. (Aëronautics)  The first of two or more surfaces arranged in tandem; -- contr. with following surface, which is the rear surface. 

ADVANCIVE:  Tending to advance. [R.] 

ADVANTAGE:  To give an advantage to; to further; to promote; to benefit; to profit. The truth is, the archbishop's own stiffness and averseness to comply with the court designs, advantaged his adversaries against him. Fuller. What is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and lose himself, or be cast away Luke ix. 25. To advantage one's self of, to avail one's self of. [Obs.] 

ADVANTAGEABLE:  Advantageous. [Obs.] 

ADVANTAGEOUS:  Being of advantage; conferring advantage; gainful; profitable; useful; beneficial; as, an advantageous position; trade is advantageous to a nation. Advabtageous comparison with any other country. Prescott. You see . . . of what use a good reputation is, and how swift and advantageous a harbinger it is, wherever one goes. Chesterfield. 

ADVANTAGEOUSLY:  Profitably; with advantage. 

ADVANTAGEOUSNESS:  Profitableness. 

ADVENE:  To accede, or come (to); to be added to something or become a part of it, though not essential. [R.] Where no act of the will advenes as a coefficient. Coleridge. 

ADVENIENT:  Coming from outward causes; superadded. [Obs.] 

ADVENT:  The period including the four Sundays before Christmas. Advent Sunday (Eccl.), the first Sunday in the season of Advent, being always the nearest Sunday to the feast of St. Andrew (Now. 30). Shipley.  2. The first or the expected second coming of Christ.  3. Coming; any important arrival; approach. Death's dreadful advent. Young. Expecting still his advent home. Tennyson. 

ADVENTIST:  One of a religious body, embracing several branches, who look for the proximate personal coming of Christ; -- called also Second Adventists. Schaff-Herzog Encyc. 

ADVENTITIOUS:  Out of the proper or usual place; as, adventitious buds or roots.  3. (Bot.)  Accidentally or sparingly spontaneous in a country or district; not fully naturalized; adventive; -- applied to foreign plants.  4. (Med.)  Acquired, as diseases; accidental.  -- Ad`ven*ti"tious*ly, adv.  -- Ad`ven*ti"tious*ness, n. 

ADVENTIVE:  Adventitious. Gray. 

ADVENTIVE:  A thing or person coming from without; an immigrant. [R.] Bacon. 

ADVENTUAL:  Relating to the season of advent. Sanderson. 

ADVENTURE:  To try the chance; to take the risk. I would adventure for such merchandise. Shak. 

ADVENTUREFUL:  Given to adventure. 

ADVENTURESOME:  Full of risk; adventurous; venturesome.  -- Ad*ven"ture*some*ness, n. 

ADVENTURESS:  A female adventurer; a woman who tries to gain position by equivocal means. 

ADVENTUROUSLY:  In an adventurous manner; venturesomely; boldly; daringly. 

ADVENTUROUSNESS:  The quality or state of being adventurous; daring; venturesomeness. 

ADVERB:  A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle, adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writes well; paper extremely white. 

ADVERBIAL:  Of or pertaining to an adverb; of the nature of an adverb; as, an adverbial phrase or form. 

ADVERBIALITY:  The quality of being adverbial. Earle. 

ADVERBIALIZE:  To give the force or form of an adverb to. 

ADVERBIALLY:  In the manner of an adverb. 

ADVERSARIA:  A miscellaneous collection of notes, remarks, or selections; a commonplace book; also, commentaries or notes. These parchments are supposed to have been St. Paul's adversaria. Bp. Bull. 

ADVERSARIOUS:  Hostile. [R.] Southey. 

ADVERSARY:  One who is turned against another or others with a design to oppose  or resist them; a member of an opposing or hostile party; an opponent; an antagonist; an enemy; a foe. His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries. Shak. Agree with thine adversary quickly. Matt. v. 25. It may be thought that to vindicate the permanency of truth is to dispute without an adversary. Beattie. The Adversary, The Satan, or the Devil.  Syn.  -- Adversary, Enemy, Opponent, Antagonist. Enemy is the only one of these words which necessarily implies a state of personal hostility. Men may be adversaries, antagonists, or opponents to each other in certain respects, and yet have no feelings of general animosity. An adversary may be simply one who is placed for a time in a hostile position, as in a lawsuit, an argument, in chess playing, or at fence. An opponent is one who is ranged against another (perhaps passively) on the opposing side; as a political opponent, an opponent in debate. An antagonist is one who struggles against another with active effort, either in a literal fight or in verbal debate. 

ADVERSARY:  Having an opposing party; not unopposed; as, an adversary suit. 

ADVERSATIVE:  Expressing contrariety, opposition, or antithesis; as, an adversative conjunction (but, however, yet, etc. ); an adversative force.  -- Ad*ver"sa*tive*ly, adv. 

ADVERSATIVE:  An adversative word. Harris. 

ADVERSE:  To oppose; to resist. [Obs.] Gower. 

ADVERSELY:  In an adverse manner; inimically; unfortunately; contrariwise. 

ADVERSENESS:  The quality or state of being adverse; opposition.  ADVERSIFOLIATE; ADVERSIFOLIOUS Ad*ver`si*fo"li*ate, Ad*ver`si*fo"li*ous a. Etym: [L. adver + folium leaf.] (Bot.)  Having opposite leaves, as plants which have the leaves so arranged on the stem. 

ADVERSION:  A turning towards; attention. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

ADVERT:  To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed or notice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said. I may again advert to the distinction. Owen.  Syn.- To refer; allude; regard. See Refer.  ADVERTENCE; ADVERTENCY Ad*vert"ence, Ad*vert"en*cy,Etym: [OF. advertence, avertence, LL. advertentia, fr. L. advertens. See Advertent.]  The act of adverting, of the quality of being advertent; attention; notice; regard; heedfulness. To this difference it is right that advertence should be had in regulating taxation. J. S. Mill. 

ADVERTENT:  Attentive; heedful; regardful. Sir M. Hale.  -- Ad*vert"ent*ly, adv. 

ADVERTISE:  To give notice to; to inform or apprise; to notify; to make known; hence, to warn; -- often followed by of before the subject of information; as, to advertise a man of his loss. [Archaic] I will advertise thee what this people shall do. Num. xxiv. 14.  4. To give public notice of; to announce publicly, esp. by a printed notice; as, to advertise goods for sale, a lost article, the sailing day of a vessel, a political meeting.  Syn.  -- To apprise; inform; make known; notify; announce; proclaim; promulgate; publish. 

ADVERTISER:  One who, or that which, advertises. 

ADVICE:  Counseling to perform a specific illegal act. Wharton. Advice boat, a vessel employed to carry dispatches or to reconnoiter; a dispatch boat.  -- To take advice. (a) To accept advice. (b) To consult with another or others.  Syn.  -- Counsel; suggestion; recommendation; admonition; exhortation; information; notice. 

ADVISABILITY:  The quality of being advisable; advisableness. 

ADVISABLE:  The quality of being advisable or expedient; expediency; advisability. 

ADVISABLY:  With advice; wisely. 

ADVISEDNESS:  Deliberate consideration; prudent procedure; caution. 

ADVISER:  One who advises. 

ADVISERSHIP:  The office of an adviser. [R.] 

ADVISO:  Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ADVISORY:  Having power to advise; containing advice; as, an advisory council; their opinion is merely advisory. The General Association has a general advisory superintendence over all the ministers and churches. Trumbull. 

ADVOCACY:  The act of pleading for or supporting; work of advocating; intercession. 

ADVOCATE:  To plead in favor of; to defend by argument, before a tribunal or the public; to support, vindicate, or recommend publicly. To advocate the cause of thy client. Bp. Sanderson (1624). This is the only thing distinct and sensible, that has been advocated. Burke. Eminent orators were engaged to advocate his cause. Mitford. 

ADVOCATE:  To act as advocate. [Obs.] Fuller. 

ADVOCATESHIP:  Office or duty of an advocate. 

ADVOCATION:  The process of removing a cause from an inferior court to the supreme court. Bell. 

ADVOCATORY:  Of or pertaining to an advocate. [R.] 

ADVOKE:  To summon; to call. [Obs.] Queen Katharine had privately prevailed with the pope to advoke the cause to Rome. Fuller. 

ADVOLUTION:  A rolling toward something. [R.] 

ADVOUTRER:  An adulterer. [Obs.] 

ADVOUTRESS:  An adulteress. [Obs.] Bacon.  ADVOUTRY; ADVOWTRY Ad*vou"try, Ad*vow"try, n. Etym: [OE. avoutrie, avouterie, advoutrie, OF. avoutrie, avulterie, fr. L. adulterium. Cf. Adultery.]  Adultery. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ADVOWEE:  One who has an advowson. Cowell. 

ADVOWSON:  The right of presenting to a vacant benefice or living in the church. [Originally, the relation of a patron (advocatus) or protector of a benefice, and thus privileged to nominate or present to it.]  Note: The benefices of the Church of England are in every case subjects of presentation. They are nearly 12,000 in number; the advowson of more than half of them belongs to private persons, and of the remainder to the crown, bishops, deans and chapters, universities, and colleges. Amer. Cyc. 

ADVOYER:  See Avoyer. [Obs.] 

ADWARD:  Award. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ADYNAMIA:  Considerable debility of the vital powers, as in typhoid fever. Dunglison. 

ADYNAMIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, debility of the vital powers; weak.  2. (Physics)  Characterized by the absence of power or force. Adynamic fevers, malignant or putrid fevers attended with great muscular debility. 

ADYNAMY:  Adynamia. [R.] Morin. 

ADYTUM:  The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whence oracles were given. Hence: A private chamber; a sanctum. 

ADZ:  To cut with an adz. [R.] Carlyle.  ADZ; ADZE Adz, Adze, n. Etym: [OE. adese, adis, adse, AS. adesa, adese, ax, hatchet.]  A carpenter's or cooper's tool, formed with a thin arching blade set at right angles to the handle. It is used for chipping or slicing away the surface of wood. 

AE:  A diphthong in the Latin language; used also by the Saxon writers. It answers to the Gr. æ was generally replaced by a, the long e or ee. In derivatives from Latin words with ae, it is mostly superseded by e. For most words found with this initial combination, the reader will therefore search under the letter E. 

AECIDIUM:  A form of fruit in the cycle of development of the Rusts or Brands, an order of fungi, formerly considered independent plants. 

AEDILE:  A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence of public buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer. 

AEDILESHIP:  The office of an ædile. T. Arnold. 

AEGEAN:  Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea, east of Greece. See Archipelago. 

AEGICRANIA:  Sculptured ornaments, used in classical architecture, representing rams' heads or skulls. 

AEGILOPS:  An ulcer or fistula in the inner corner of the eye.  2. (Bot.) (a) The great wild-oat grass or other cornfield weed. Crabb. (b) A genus of plants, called also hardgrass. 

AEGIS:  A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to the shield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.: A shield; a protection. 

AEGOPHONY:  Same as Egophony. 

AEGROTAT:  A medical certificate that a student is ill. 

AENEID:  The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is Æneas. 

AENEOUS:  Colored like bronze. 

AEOLIC:  Æolian, 1; as, the Æolic dialect; the Æolic mode.  AEOLIPILE; AEOLIPYLE Æ*ol"i*pile, Æ*ol"i*pyle, n. Etym: [L. aeolipilae; Aeolus god of the winds + pila a ball, or Gr. i. e., doorway of Æolus); cf. F. éolipyle.]  An apparatus consisting chiefly of a closed vessel (as a globe or cylinder) with one or more projecting bent tubes, through which steam is made to pass from the vessel, causing it to revolve. [Written also eolipile.]  Note: Such an apparatus was first described by Hero of Alexandria about 200 years b. c. It has often been called the first steam engine. 

AEOLOTROPIC:  Exhibiting differences of quality or property in different directions; not isotropic. Sir W. Thomson. 

AEOLOTROPY:  Difference of quality or property in different directions. 

AEOLUS:  The god of the winds. 

AEON:  A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of the Deity. See Eon. 

AEONIAN:  Eternal; everlasting. "Æonian hills." Tennyson. 

AEPYORNIS:  A gigantic bird found fossil in Madagascar. 

AERATE:  To expose to the chemical action of air; to oxygenate (the blood) by respiration; to arterialize. Aërated bread, bread raised by charging dough with carbonic acid gas, instead of generating the gas in the dough by fermentation. 

AERATION:  A change produced in the blood by exposure to the air in respiration; oxygenation of the blood in respiration; arterialization.  3. The act or preparation of charging with carbonic acid gas or with oxygen. 

AERATOR:  That which supplies with air; esp. an apparatus used for charging mineral waters with gas and in making soda water.  AERENCHYM; AERENCHYMA { A"ër*en`chym,  A`ër*en"chy*ma }, n. [NL. aërenchyma. See Aëro-; Enchyma.] (Bot.)  A secondary respiratory tissue or modified periderm, found in many aquatic plants and distinguished by the large intercellular spaces. 

AERIALITY:  The state of being aërial; [R.] De Quincey. 

AERIALLY:  Like, or from, the air; in an aërial manner. "A murmur heard aërially." Tennyson.  AERIAL RAILWAY A*ë`ri*al rail"way`. (a) A stretched wire or rope elevated above the ground and forming a way along which a trolley may travel, for conveying a load suspended from the trolley.  (b) An elevated cableway.  AERIAL SICKNESS A*ë"ri*al sick"ness.  A sickness felt by aëronauts due to high speed of flights and rapidity in changing altitudes, combining some symptoms of mountain sickness and some of seasickness. 

AERIE:  The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also a brood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.: A human residence or resting place perched like an eagle's nest. 

AERIFEROUS:  Conveying or containing air; air-bearing; as, the windpipe is an aëriferous tube. 

AERIFORM:  Having the form or nature of air, or of an elastic fluid; gaseous. Hence fig.: Unreal. 

AERIFY:  The combining form of the Greek word meaning air. 

AEROBIC:  Growing or thriving only in the presence of oxygen; also, pertaining to, or induced by, aërobies; as, aërobic fermentation. -- A`ër*o"bic*al*ly (#), adv. 

AEROBIES:  Microörganisms which live in contact with the air and need oxygen for their growth; as the microbacteria which form on the surface of putrefactive fluids. 

AEROBIOTIC:  Related to, or of the nature of, aërobies; as, aërobiotic plants, which live only when supplied with free oxygen. 

AEROBOAT:  A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat. 

AEROBUS:  An aëroplane or airship designed to carry passengers. 

AEROCLUB:  A club or association of persons interested in aëronautics. 

AEROCURVE:  A modification of the aëroplane, having curved surfaces, the advantages of which were first demonstrated by Lilienthal. 

AEROCYST:  One of the air cells of algals. 

AEROCYST:  One of the air cells of algals. 

AERODONETICS:  The science of gliding and soaring flight. 

AERODYNAMIC:  Pertaining to the force of air in motion. 

AERODYNAMICS:  The science which treats of the air and other gaseous bodies under the action of force, and of their mechanical effects. 

AEROFOIL:  A plane or arched surface for sustaining bodies by its movement through the air; a spread wing, as of a bird. 

AEROGNOSY:  The science which treats of the properties of the air, and of the part it plays in nature. Craig. 

AEROGRAPHER:  One versed in aëography: an aërologist.  AEROGRAPHIC; AEROGRAPHICAL A`ër*o*graph"ic, A`ër*o*graph"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to aërography; aërological. 

AEROGRAPHY:  A description of the air or atmosphere; aërology. 

AEROGUN:  A cannon capable of being trained at very high angles for use against aircraft. 

AEROHYDRODYNAMIC:  Acting by the force of air and water; as, an aërohydrodynamic wheel. 

AEROLITE:  A stone, or metallic mass, which has fallen to the earth from distant space; a meteorite; a meteoric stone.  Note: Some writers limit the word to stony meteorites. 

AEROLITH:  Same as A. 

AEROLITHOLOGY:  The science of aërolites. 

AEROLITIC:  Of or pertaining to aërolites; meteoric; as, aërolitic iron. Booth.  AEROLOGIC; AEROLOGICAL A`ër*o*log"ic, A`ër*o*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to aërology. 

AEROLOGIST:  One versed in aërology. 

AEROLOGY:  That department of physics which treats of the atmosphere. 

AEROMANCY:  Divination from the state of the air or from atmospheric substances; also, forecasting changes in the weather.  AEROMECHANIC; AEROMECHANICAL A`ër*o*me*chan"ic, A`ër*o*me*chan"ical, a.  Of or pert. to aëromechanics. 

AEROMECHANIC:  A mechanic or mechanician expert in the art and practice of aëronautics. 

AEROMECHANICS:  The science of equilibrium and motion of air or an aëriform fluid, including aërodynamics and aërostatics. 

AEROMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the weight or density of air and gases. 

AEROMETRIC:  Of or pertaining to aërometry; as, aërometric investigations. 

AEROMETRY:  The science of measuring the air, including the doctrine of its pressure, elasticity, rarefaction, and condensation; pneumatics. 

AERONAT:  A dirigible balloon. 

AERONAUT:  An aërial navigator; a balloonist.  AERONAUTIC; AERONAUTICAL A`ër*o*naut"ic, A`ër*o*naut"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aéronauitique.]  Pertaining to aëronautics, or aërial sailing. 

AERONAUTICS:  The science or art of ascending and sailing in the air, as by means of a balloon; aërial navigation; ballooning. 

AERONEF:  A power-driven, heavier-than-air flying machine.  AEROPHOBIA; AEROPHOBY A`ër*o*pho"bi*a, A`ër*oph"o*by, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. aérophobie.] (Med.)  Dread of a current of air. 

AEROPHYTE:  A plant growing entirely in the air, and receiving its nourishment from it; an air plant or epiphyte. 

AEROPLANE:  A flying machine, or a small plane for experiments on flying, which floats in the air only when propelled through it. 

AEROPLANIST:  One who flies in an aëroplane. 

AEROSCOPE:  An apparatus designed for collecting spores, germs, bacteria, etc., suspended in the air. 

AEROSCOPY:  The observation of the state and variations of the atmosphere. 

AEROSE:  Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy. [R.] 

AEROSIDERITE:  A mass of meteoric iron. 

AEROSPHERE:  The atmosphere. [R.] 

AEROSTATICS:  The science that treats of the equilibrium of elastic fluids, or that of bodies sustained in them. Hence it includes aëronautics. 

AEROTAXIS:  The positive or negative stimulus exerted by oxygen on aërobic and anaërobic bacteria. -- A`ër*o*tac"tic (#), a. 

AEROTHERAPENTICS:  Treatment of disease by the use of air or other gases. 

AEROYACHT:  A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat. 

AERUGINOUS:  Of the nature or color of verdigris, or the rust of copper. 

AERUGO:  The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris. 

AERY:  An aerie. 

AERY:  Aërial; ethereal; incorporeal; visionary. [Poetic] M. Arnold. 

AESCULAPIAN:  Pertaining to Æsculapius or to the healing art; medical; medicinal. 

AESCULAPIUS:  The god of medicine. Hence, a physician. 

AESCULIN:  Same as Esculin. 

AESIR:  In the old Norse mythology, the gods Odin, Thor, Loki, Balder, Frigg, and the others. Their home was called Asgard.  AESOPIAN; ESOPIAN Æ*so"pi*an, E*so"pi*an (, a. Etym: [L. Aesopius, from Gr. (.]  Of or pertaining to Æsop, or in his manner.  AESOPIC; ESOPIC Æ*sop"ic, E*sop"ic (, a. Etym: [L. Aesopicus, Gr.  Same as Æsopian. 

AESTHESIA:  Perception by the senses; feeling; -- the opposite of anæsthesia.  AESTHESIOMETER; ESTHESIOMETER Æs*the`si*om"e*ter, Es*the`si*om"e*ter (, n. Etym: [Gr. Æsthesia) + - meter.]  An instrument to measure the degree of sensation, by determining at how short a distance two impressions upon the skin can be distinguished, and thus to determine whether the condition of tactile sensibility is normal or altered. 

AESTHESIS:  Sensuous perception. [R.] Ruskin. 

AESTHESODIC:  Conveying sensory or afferent impulses; -- said of nerves. 

AESTHETE:  One who makes much or overmuch of æsthetics. [Recent]  AESTHETIC; AESTHETICAL Æs*thet"ic (, Æs*thet"ic*al (, a.  Of or Pertaining to æsthetics; versed in æsthetics; as, æsthetic studies, emotions, ideas, persons, etc.  -- Æs*thet"ic*al*ly, adv. 

AESTHETICAN:  One versed in æsthetics. 

AESTHETICISM:  The doctrine of æsthetics; æsthetic principles; devotion to the beautiful in nature and art. Lowell.  AESTHETICS; ESTHETICS Æs*thet"ics, Es*thet"ics (, n. Etym: [Gr. ästhetik, F. esthétique.]  The theory or philosophy of taste; the science of the beautiful in nature and art; esp. that which treats of the expression and embodiment of beauty by art.  AESTHO-PHYSIOLOGY Æs`tho-phys`i*ol"o*gy(#), n. Etym: [Gr. physiology.]  The science of sensation in relation to nervous action. H. Spenser. 

AESTIVAL:  Of or belonging to the summer; as, æstival diseases. [Spelt also estival.] 

AESTIVATE:  To pass the summer in a state of torpor. [Spelt also estivate.] 

AESTIVATION:  The state of torpidity induced by the heat and dryness of summer, as in certain snails; -- opposed to hibernation.  2. (Bot.)  The arrangement of the petals in a flower bud, as to folding, overlapping, etc.; prefloration. Gray. [Spelt also estivation.] 

AESTUARY:  See Estuary. 

AESTUOUS:  Glowing; agitated, as with heat. 

AETHEOGAMOUS:  Propagated in an unusual way; cryptogamous. 

AETHER:  See Ether.  AETHIOPS MINERAL Æ"thi*ops min"er*al. (Chem.)  Same as Ethiops mineral. [Obs.] 

AETHOGEN:  A compound of nitrogen and boro 

AETHRIOSCOPE:  An instrument consisting in part of a differential thermometer. It is used for measuring changes of temperature produced by different conditions of the sky, as when clear or clouded. 

AETIOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to ætiology; assigning a cause.  -- Æ`ti*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

AETITES:  See Eaglestone. 

AFAR:  At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used with from preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I saw him afar off. The steep where Fame's proud temple shines afar. Beattie. 

AFEARD:  Afraid. [Obs.] Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises. Shak. 

AFER:  The southwest wind. Milton. 

AFFABILITY:  The quality of being affable; readiness to converse; courteousness in receiving others and in conversation; complaisant behavior. Affability is of a wonderful efficacy or power in procuring love. Elyot 

AFFABLENESS:  Affability. 

AFFABLY:  In an affable manner; courteously. 

AFFABROUS:  Executed in a workmanlike manner; ingeniously made. [R.] Bailey. 

AFFAIR:  An action or engagement not of sufficient magnitude to be called a battle.  4. Action; endeavor. [Obs.] And with his best affair Obeyed the pleasure of the Sun. Chapman.  5. A material object (vaguely designated). A certain affair of fine red cloth much worn and faded. Hawthorne. 

AFFAMISH:  To afflict with, or perish from, hunger. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AFFAMISHMENT:  Starvation. Bp. Hall. 

AFFATUATE:  To infatuate. [Obs.] Milton. 

AFFEAR:  To frighten. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AFFECT:  Affection; inclination; passion; feeling; disposition. [Obs.] Shak. 

AFFECTATIONIST:  One who exhibits affectation. [R.] Fitzed. Hall. 

AFFECTED:  Made up of terms involving different powers of the unknown quantity; adfected; as, an affected equation. 

AFFECTEDNESS:  Affectation. 

AFFECTER:  One who affects, assumes, pretends, or strives after. "Affecters of wit." Abp. Secker. 

AFFECTIBILITY:  The quality or state of being affectible. [R.] 

AFFECTIBLE:  That may be affected. [R.] Lay aside the absolute, and, by union with the creaturely, become affectible. Coleridge. 

AFFECTINGLY:  In an affecting manner; is a manner to excite emotions. 

AFFECTION:  Disease; morbid symptom; malady; as, a pulmonary affection. Dunglison.  7. The lively representation of any emotion. Wotton.  8. Affectation. [Obs.] "Spruce affection." Shak.  9. Passion; violent emotion. [Obs.] Most wretched man, That to affections does the bridle lend. Spenser.  Syn.  -- Attachment; passion; tenderness; fondness; kindness; love; good will. See Attachment; Disease. 

AFFECTIONAL:  Of or pertaining to the affections; as, affectional impulses; an affectional nature. 

AFFECTIONATED:  Disposed; inclined. [Obs.] Affectionated to the people. Holinshed. 

AFFECTIONATELY:  With affection; lovingly; fondly; tenderly; kindly. 

AFFECTIONATENESS:  The quality of being affectionate; fondness; affection. 

AFFECTIVELY:  In an affective manner; impressively; emotionally. 

AFFECTUOUS:  Full of passion or emotion; earnest. [Obs.] -- Af*fec"tu*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

AFFEER:  To assess or reduce, as an arbitrary penalty or amercement, to a certain and reasonable sum. Amercements . . . were affeered by the judges. Blackstone.  AFFEERER; AFFEEROR Af*feer"er, Af*feer"or, n. Etym: [OF. aforeur, LL. afforator.] (Old Law)  One who affeers. Cowell. 

AFFEERMENT:  The act of affeering. Blackstone. 

AFFERENT:  Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed to efferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which convey sensations from the external organs to the brain. 

AFFETTUOSO:  With feeling. 

AFFIANCER:  One who makes a contract of marriage between two persons. 

AFFIANT:  One who makes an affidavit. [U. S.] Burrill.  Syn.  -- Deponent. See Deponent. 

AFFICHE:  A written or printed notice to be posted, as on a wall; a poster; a placard. 

AFFIDAVIT:  A sworn statement in writing; a declaration in writing, signed and made upon oath before an authorized magistrate. Bouvier. Burrill.  Note: It is always made ex parte, and without cross-examination, and in this differs from a deposition. It is also applied to written statements made on affirmation.  Syn.  -- Deposition. See Deposition. 

AFFILE:  To polish. [Obs.] 

AFFILIABLE:  Capable of being affiliated to or on, or connected with in origin. 

AFFILIATE:  To connect or associate one's self; -- followed by with; as, they affiliate with no party. 

AFFILIATION:  The establishment or ascertaining of parentage; the assignment of a child, as a bastard, to its father; filiation.  3. Connection in the way of descent. H. Spencer. 

AFFINAL:  Related by marriage; from the same source. 

AFFINE:  To refine. [Obs.] Holland. 

AFFINED:  Joined in affinity or by any tie. [Obs.] "All affined and kin." Shak. 

AFFINITATIVE:  Of the nature of affinity.  -- Af*fin"i*ta*tive*ly, adv. 

AFFINITIVE:  Closely connected, as by affinity. 

AFFINITY:  That attraction which takes place, at an insensible distance, between the heterogeneous particles of bodies, and unites them to form chemical compounds; chemism; chemical or elective affinity or attraction.  5. (Nat. Hist.)  A relation between species or highe  6. (Spiritualism)  A superior spiritual relationship or attraction held to exist sometimes between persons, esp. persons of the opposite sex; also, the man or woman who exerts such psychical or spiritual attraction. 

AFFIRM:  to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, brought before an appelate court for review.  2. To assert positively; to tell with confidence; to aver; to maintain as true; -- opposed to deny. Jesus, . . . whom Paul affirmed to be alive. Acts xxv. 19.  3. (Law)  To declare, as a fact, solemnly, under judicial sanction. See Affirmation, 4.  Syn.  -- To assert; aver; declare; asseverate; assure; pronounce; protest; avouch; confirm; establish; ratify.  -- To Affirm, Asseverate, Aver, Protest. We affirm when we declare a thing as a fact or a proposition. We asseverate it in a peculiarly earnest manner, or with increased positiveness as what can not be disputed. We aver it, or formally declare it to be true, when we have positive knowledge of it. We protest in a more public manner and with the energy of perfect sincerity. People asseverate in order to produce a conviction of their veracity; they aver when they are peculiarly desirous to be believed; they protest when they wish to free themselves from imputations, or to produce a conviction of their innocence. 

AFFIRM:  To make a solemn declaration, before an authorized magistrate or tribunal, under the penalties of perjury; to testify by affirmation. 

AFFIRMABLE:  Capable of being affirmed, asserted, or declared; -- followed by of; as, an attribute affirmable of every just man. 

AFFIRMANT:  One who affirms of taking an oath. 

AFFIRMATION:  A solemn declaration made under the penalties of perjury, by persons who conscientiously decline taking an oath, which declaration is in law equivalent to an oath. Bouvier. 

AFFIRMATIVE:  Expressing the agreement of the two terms of a proposition.  5. (Alg.)  Positive; -- a term applied to quantities which are to be added, and opposed to negative, or such as are to be subtracted. 

AFFIRMATIVELY:  In an affirmative manner; on the affirmative side of a question; in the affirmative; -- opposed to negatively. 

AFFIRMATORY:  Giving affirmation; assertive; affirmative. Massey. 

AFFIRMER:  One who affirms. 

AFFIX:  That which is affixed; an appendage; esp. one or more letters or syllables added at the end of a word; a suffix; a postfix. 

AFFIXION:  Affixture. [Obs.] T. Adams. 

AFFIXTURE:  The act of affixing, or the state of being affixed; attachment. 

AFFLATION:  A blowing or breathing on; inspiration. 

AFFLICT:  Afflicted. [Obs.] Becon. 

AFFLICTEDNESS:  The state of being afflicted; affliction. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

AFFLICTER:  One who afflicts. 

AFFLICTING:  Grievously painful; distressing; afflictive; as, an afflicting event.  -- Af*flict"ing*ly, adv. 

AFFLICTIONLESS:  Free from affliction. 

AFFLICTIVE:  Giving pain; causing continued or repeated pain or grief; distressing. "Jove's afflictive hand." Pope. Spreads slow disease, and darts afflictive pain. Prior. 

AFFLICTIVELY:  In an afflictive manner. 

AFFLUENCY:  Affluence. [Obs.] Addison. 

AFFLUENT:  A stream or river flowing into a larger river or into a lake; a tributary stream. 

AFFLUENTLY:  Abundantly; copiously. 

AFFLUENTNESS:  Great plenty. [R.] 

AFFLUX:  A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of blood to the head. 

AFFLUXION:  The act of flowing towards; afflux. Sir T. Browne. 

AFFODILL:  Asphodel. [Obs.] 

AFFORCE:  To reënforce; to strengthen. Hallam. 

AFFORCIAMENT:  See Afforcement. [Obs.] 

AFFORDABLE:  That may be afforded. 

AFFORDMENT:  Anything given as a help; bestowal. [Obs.] 

AFFOREST:  To convert into a forest; as, to afforest a tract of country. 

AFFORESTATION:  The act of converting into forest or woodland. Blackstone. 

AFFORMATIVE:  An affix. 

AFFRANCHISE:  To make free; to enfranchise. Johnson. 

AFFRANCHISEMENT:  The act of making free; enfranchisement. [R.] 

AFFRAP:  To strike, or strike down. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AFFRAY:  The fighting of two or more persons, in a public place, to the terror of others. Blackstone.  Note: A fighting in private is not, in a legal sense, an affray.  Syn.  -- Quarrel; brawl; scuffle; encounter; fight; contest; feud; tumult; disturbance. 

AFFRAYER:  One engaged in an affray. 

AFFRAYMENT:  Affray. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AFFREIGHT:  To hire, as a ship, for the transportation of goods or freight. 

AFFREIGHTER:  One who hires or charters a ship to convey goods. 

AFFREIGHTMENT:  The act of hiring, or the contract for the use of, a vessel, or some part of it, to convey cargo. 

AFFRET:  A furious onset or attack. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AFFRICATE:  A combination of a stop, or explosive, with an immediately following fricative or spirant of corresponding organic position, as pf in german Pfeffer, pepper, z (= ts) in German Zeit, time. 

AFFRICTION:  The act of rubbing against. [Obs.] 

AFFRIENDED:  Made friends; reconciled. [Obs.] "Deadly foes . . . affriended." Spenser. 

AFFRIGHT:  To impress with sudden fear; to frighten; to alarm. Dreams affright our souls. Shak. A drear and dying sound Affrights the flamens at their service quaint. Milton.  Syn.  -- To terrify; frighten; alarm; dismay; appall; scare; startle; daunt; intimidate. 

AFFRIGHT:  Affrighted. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AFFRIGHTEDLY:  With fright. Drayton. 

AFFRIGHTEN:  To frighten. [Archaic] "Fit tales . . . to affrighten babes." Southey. 

AFFRIGHTER:  One who frightens. [Archaic] 

AFFRIGHTFUL:  Terrifying; frightful.  -- Af*fright"ful*ly, adv. [Archaic] Bugbears or affrightful apparitions. Cudworth. 

AFFRIGHTMENT:  Affright; the state of being frightened; sudden fear or alarm. [Archaic] Passionate words or blows . . . fill the child's mind with terror and affrightment. Locke. 

AFFRONTE:  Face to face, or front to front; facing. 

AFFRONTEDLY:  Shamelessly. [Obs.] Bacon. 

AFFRONTEE:  One who receives an affront. Lytton. 

AFFRONTER:  One who affronts, or insults to the face. 

AFFRONTINGLY:  In an affronting manner. 

AFFRONTIVE:  Tending to affront or offend; offensive; abusive. How affrontive it is to despise mercy. South. 

AFFRONTIVENESS:  The quality that gives an affront or offense. [R.] Bailey. 

AFFUSE:  To pour out or upon. [R.] I first affused water upon the compressed beans. Boyle. 

AFFUSION:  The act of pouring upon, or sprinkling with a liquid, as water upon a child in baptism. Specifically: (Med)  The act of pouring water or other fluid on the whole or a part of the body, as a remedy in disease. Dunglison. 

AFFY:  To trust or confide. [Obs.] Shak. 

AFGHAN:  Of or pertaining to Afghanistan. 

AFIRE:  On fire. 

AFLAME:  Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze. G. Eliot. 

AFLAT:  Level with the ground; flat. [Obs.] Bacon. 

AFLAUNT:  In a flaunting state or position. Copley. 

AFLICKER:  In a flickering state. 

AFLOW:  Flowing. Their founts aflow with tears. R. Browning. 

AFLUSH:  In a flushed or blushing state. 

AFLUSH:  On a level. The bank is . . . aflush with the sea. Swinburne. 

AFLUTTER:  In a flutter; agitated. 

AFOAM:  In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam.  A. F. OF L. A. F. of L. (Abbrev.)  American Federation of Labor. 

AFORE:  In the fore part of a vessel. 

AFORE:  Before; in front of; farther forward than; as, afore the windlass. Afore the mast, among the common sailors; -- a phrase used to distinguish the ship's crew from the officers. 

AFORECITED:  Named or quoted before. 

AFOREGOING:  Going before; foregoing. 

AFOREHAND:  Beforehand; in anticipation. [Archaic or Dial.] She is come aforehand to anoint my body. Mark xiv. 8. 

AFOREHAND:  Prepared; previously provided; -- opposed to behindhand. [Archaic or Dial.] Aforehand in all matters of power. Bacon. 

AFOREMENTIONED:  Previously mentioned; before-mentioned. Addison. 

AFORENAMED:  Named before. Peacham. 

AFORESAID:  Said before, or in a preceding part; already described or identified. 

AFORETHOUGHT:  Premeditated; prepense; previously in mind; designed; as, malice aforethought, which is required to constitute murder. Bouvier. 

AFORETHOUGHT:  Premeditation. 

AFORETIME:  In time past; formerly. "He prayed . . . as he did aforetime." Dan. vi. 10.  A FORTIORI A for`ti*o"ri. Etym: [L.] (Logic & Math.)  With stronger reason. 

AFOUL:  In collision; entangled. Totten. To run afoul of, to run against or come into collision with, especially so as to become entangled or to cause injury. 

AFRAID:  Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive. [Afraid comes after the noun it limits.] "Back they recoiled, afraid." Milton.  Note: This word expresses a less degree of fear than terrified or frightened. It is followed by of before the object of fear, or by the infinitive, or by a dependent clause; as, to be afraid of death. "I am afraid to die." "I am afraid he will chastise me." "Be not afraid that I your hand should take." Shak. I am afraid is sometimes used colloquially to soften a statement; as, I am afraid I can not help you in this matter.  Syn.  -- Fearful; timid; timorous; alarmed; anxious. 

AFREET:  Same as Afrit. 

AFRESH:  Anew; again; once more; newly. They crucify . . . the Son of God afresh. Heb. vi. 6. 

AFRIC:  African.  -- n.  Africa. [Poetic] 

AFRICAN:  Of or pertaining to Africa. African hemp, a fiber prerared from the leaves of the Sanseviera Guineensis, a plant found in Africa and India.  -- African marigold, a tropical American plant (Tagetes erecta).  -- African oak or African teak, a timber furnished by Oldfieldia Africana, used in ship building. African violet African-American, a United States citizen of African descent. 

AFRICAN:  A native of Africa; also one ethnologically belonging to an African race. 

AFRICANDER:  One born in Africa, the offspring of a white father and a "colored" mother. Also, and now commonly in Southern Africa, a native born of European settlers. 

AFRICANISM:  A word, phrase, idiom, or custom peculiar to Africa or Africans. "The knotty Africanisms . . . of the fathers." Milton. 

AFRICANIZE:  To place under the domination of Africans or negroes. [Amer.] Bartlett.  AFRIT; AFRITE; AFREET Af"rit, Af"rite(#), Af"reet(#), n. Etym: [Arab. 'ifrit.] (Moham. Myth.)  A powerful evil jinnee, demon, or monstrous giant. 

AFRONT:  In front; face to face.  -- prep. In front of. Shak. 

AFT:  Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft. 

AFTER:  To ward the stern of the ship; -- applied to any object in the rear part of a vessel; as the after cabin, after hatchway.  Note: It is often combined with its noun; as, after-bowlines, after- braces, after-sails, after-yards, those on the mainmasts and mizzenmasts. After body (Naut.), the part of a ship abaft the dead flat, or middle part. 

AFTER:  Subsequently in time or place; behind; afterward; as, he follows after. It was about the space of three hours after. Acts. v. 7.  Note: After is prefixed to many words, forming compounds, but retaining its usual signification. The prefix may be adverbial, prepositional, or adjectival; as in after- described, after-dinner, after-part. The hyphen is sometimes needlessly used to connect the adjective after with its noun. See Note under After, a., 1. 

AFTERBIRTH:  The placenta and membranes with which the fetus is connected, and which come away after delivery. 

AFTERCAST:  A throw of dice after the game in ended; hence, anything done too late. Gower. 

AFTERCLAP:  An unexpected subsequent event; something disagreeable happening after an affair is supposed to be at an end. Spenser. 

AFTERCROP:  A second crop or harvest in the same year. Mortimer.  AFTER DAMP Aft"er damp`.  An irrespirable gas, remaining after an explosion of fire damp in mines; choke damp. See Carbonic acid.  AFTER-DINNER Aft"er-din`ner(#), n.  The time just after dinner. "An after-dinner's sleep." Shak. [Obs.] -- a.  Following dinner; post-prandial; as, an after-dinner nap.  AFTER-EATAGE Aft"er-eat`age(#), n.  Aftergrass. 

AFTEREYE:  To look after. [Poetic] Shak. 

AFTERGAME:  A second game; hence, a subsequent scheme or expedient. Wotton. Aftergame at Irish, an ancient game very nearly resembling backgammon. Beau. & Fl.  AFTER-GLOW Aft"er-glow(#), n.  A glow of refulgence in the western sky after sunset. 

AFTERGRASS:  The grass that grows after the first crop has been mown; aftermath. 

AFTERGROWTH:  A second growth or crop, or (metaphorically) development. J. S. Mill. 

AFTERGUARD:  The seaman or seamen stationed on the poop or after part of the ship, to attend the after-sails. Totten.  AFTER-IMAGE Aft"er-im`age(#), n.  The impression of a vivid sensation retained by the retina of the eye after the cause has been removed; also extended to impressions left of tones, smells, etc. 

AFTERINGS:  The last milk drawn in milking; strokings. [Obs.] Grose. 

AFTERMATH:  A second moving; the grass which grows after the first crop of hay in the same season; rowen. Holland.  AFTER-MENTIONED Aft"er-men`tioned(#), a.  Mentioned afterwards; as, persons after-mentioned (in a writing). 

AFTERMOST:  Nearest the stern; most aft. 

AFTERNOON:  The part of the day which follows noon, between noon and evening.  AFTER-NOTE Aft"er-note`(#), n. (Mus.)  One of the small notes occur on the unaccented parts of the measure, taking their time from the preceding note. 

AFTERPAINS:  The pains which succeed childbirth, as in expelling the afterbirth. 

AFTERPIECE:  The heel of a rudder.  AFTER-SAILS Aft"er-sails`(#), n. pl. (Naut.)  The sails on the mizzenmast, or on the stays between the mainmast and mizzenmast. Totten. 

AFTERSENSATION:  A sensation or sense impression following the removal of a stimulus producing a primary sensation, and reproducing the primary sensation in positive, negative, or complementary form. The aftersensation may be continuous with the primary sensation or follow it after an interval. 

AFTERSHAFT:  The hypoptilum. 

AFTERTASTE:  A taste which remains in the mouth after eating or drinking. 

AFTERTHOUGHT:  Reflection after an act; later or subsequent thought or expedient.  AFTERWARDS; AFTERWARD Aft"er*wards, Aft"er*ward, adv. Etym: [AS. æfteweard, a., behind. See Aft, and -ward (suffix). The final s in afterwards is adverbial, orig. a genitive ending.]  At a later or succeeding time. 

AFTERWISE:  Wise after the event; wise or knowing, when it is too late.  AFTER-WIT Aft"er-wit`, n.  Wisdom or perception that comes after it can be of use. "After- wit comes too late when the mischief is done." L'Estrange.  AFTER-WITTED Aft"er-wit`ted, a.  Characterized by afterwit; slow-witted. Tyndale. 

AFTMOST:  Nearest the stern. 

AFTWARD:  Toward the stern.  AGA; AGHA A*ga" or A*gha", n. Etym: [Turk. adha a great lord, chief master.]  In Turkey, a commander or chief officer. It is used also as a title of respect. 

AGAIN:  Against; also, towards (in order to meet). [Obs.] Albeit that it is again his kind. Chaucer. 

AGAINBUY:  To redeem. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

AGAINSAY:  To gainsay. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

AGAINSTAND:  To withstand. [Obs.] 

AGAINWARD:  Back again. [Obs.]  AGALACTIA; AGALAXY Ag`a*lac"ti*a, Ag"a*lax`y, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)  Failure of the due secretion of milk after childbirth. 

AGALACTOUS:  Lacking milk to suckle with.  AGAL-AGAL A`gal-a"gal, n.  Same as Agar-agar.  AGALLOCH; AGALLOCHUM Ag"al*loch, A*gal"lo*chum, n. Etym: [Gr. aguru, Heb. pl. ahalim.]  A soft, resinous wood (Aquilaria Agallocha) of highly aromatic smell, burnt by the orientals as a perfume. It is called also agalwood and aloes wood. The name is also given to some other species. 

AGALMATOLITE:  A soft, compact stone, of a grayish, greenish, or yellowish color, carved into images by the Chinese, and hence called figure stone, and pagodite. It is probably a variety of pinite. 

AGAMA:  A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetable substances; also, one of these lizards. 

AGAMI:  A South American bird (Psophia crepitans), allied to the cranes, and easily domesticated; -- called also the gold-breasted trumpeter. Its body is about the size of the pheasant. See Trumpeter. 

AGAMICALLY:  In an agamic manner. 

AGAMIST:  An unmarried person; also, one opposed to marriage. Foxe. 

AGAMOGENESIS:  Reproduction without the union of parents of distinct sexes: asexual reproduction. 

AGAMOGENETIC:  Reproducing or produced without sexual union.  -- Ag`a*mo*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv. All known agamogenetic processes end in a complete return to the primitive stock. Huxley. 

AGAMOUS:  Having no visible sexual organs; asexual. In Bot., cryptogamous. 

AGANGLIONIC:  Without ganglia. 

AGAPE:  Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention. Dazzles the crowd and sets them all agape. Milton. 

AGAPE:  The love feast of the primitive Christians, being a meal partaken of in connection with the communion.  AGAR-AGAR A`gar-a"gar, n. Etym: [Ceylonese local name.]  A fucus or seaweed much used in the East for soups and jellies; Ceylon moss (Gracilaria lichenoides). 

AGARIC:  A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which the common mushroom is an example.  2. An old name for severwal species of Polyporus, corky fungi growing on decaying wood.  Note: The "female agaric" (Polyporus officinalic) was renowned as a cathartic; the "male agaric" (Polyporus igniarius) is used for preparing touchwood, called punk of German tinder. Agaric mineral, a light, chalky deposit of carbonate of lime, sometimes called rock milk, formed in caverns or fissures of limestone. 

AGASP:  In a state of gasping. Coleridge. 

AGAST:  See Aghast.  AGAST; AGHAST A*gast" or A*ghast", v. t.  To affright; to terrify. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

AGASTRIC:  Having to stomach, or distinct digestive canal, as the tapeworm. 

AGATE:  On the way; agoing; as, to be agate; to set the bells agate. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

AGATE:  A semipellucid, uncrystallized variety of quartz, presenting various tints in the same specimen. Its colors are delicately arranged in stripes or bands, or blended in clouds.  Note: The fortification agate, or Scotch pebble, the moss agate, the clouded agate, etc., are familiar varieties.  2. (Print.)  A kind of type, larger than pearl and smaller than nonpareil; in England called ruby.  Note: This line is printed in the type called agate.  3. A diminutive person; so called in allusion to the small figures cut in agate for rings and seals. [Obs.] Shak.  4. A tool used by gold-wire drawers, bookbinders, etc.; -- so called from the agate fixed in it for burnishing. 

AGATIFEROUS:  Containing or producing agates. Craig. 

AGATINE:  Pertaining to, or like, agate. 

AGATIZE:  To convert into agate; to make resemble agate. Dana. 

AGATY:  Of the nature of agate, or containing agate. 

AGAVE:  A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceæ) of which the chief species is the maguey or century plant (A. Americana), wrongly called Aloe. It is from ten to seventy years, according to climate, in attaining maturity, when it produces a gigantic flower stem, sometimes forty feet in height, and perishes. The fermented juice is the pulque of the Mexicans; distilled, it yields mescal. A strong thread and a tough paper are made from the leaves, and the wood has many uses. 

AGAZED:  Gazing with astonishment; amazed. [Obs.] The whole army stood agazed on him. Shak. 

AGE:  To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age; as, he grew fat as he aged. They live one hundred and thirty years, and never age for all that. Holland. I am aging; that is, I have a whitish, or rather a light-colored, hair here and there. Landor. 

AGE:  To cause to grow old; to impart the characteristics of age to; as, grief ages us. 

AGEDLY:  In the manner of an aged person. 

AGEDNESS:  The quality of being aged; oldness. Custom without truth is but agedness of error. Milton. 

AGELESS:  Without old age limits of duration; as, fountains of ageless youth. 

AGEN:  See Again. [Obs.] 

AGEND:  See Agendum. [Obs.] 

AGENESIC:  Characterized by sterility; infecund. 

AGENESIS:  Any imperfect development of the body, or any anomaly of organization. 

AGENNESIS:  Impotence; sterility. 

AGENT:  Actingpatient, or sustaining, action. [Archaic] "The body agent." Bacon. 

AGENTIAL:  Of or pertaining to an agent or an agency. Fitzed. Hall. 

AGENTSHIP:  Agency. Beau. & Fl. 

AGERATUM:  A genus of plants, one species of which (A. Mexicanum) has lavender-blue flowers in dense clusters. 

AGGENERATION:  The act of producing in addition. [Obs.] T. Stanley. 

AGGER:  An earthwork; a mound; a raised work. [Obs.] Hearne. 

AGGERATE:  To heap up. [Obs.] Foxe. 

AGGERATION:  A heaping up; accumulation; as, aggerations of sand. [R.] 

AGGEROSE:  In heaps; full of heaps. 

AGGEST:  To heap up. [Obs.] The violence of the waters aggested the earth. Fuller. 

AGGLOMERATE:  To wind or collect into a ball; hence, to gather into a mass or anything like a mass. Where he builds the agglomerated pile. Cowper. 

AGGLOMERATE:  To collect in a mass. 

AGGLOMERATE:  A mass of angular volcanic fragments united by heat; -- distinguished from conglomerate.  AGGLOMERATE; AGGLOMERATED Ag*glom"er*ate, Ag*glom"er*a`ted, a.  1. Collected into a ball, heap, or mass.  2. (Bot.)  Collected into a rounded head of flowers. 

AGGLOMERATIVE:  Having a tendency to gather together, or to make collections. Taylor is eminently discursive, accumulative, and (to use one of his own words) agglomerative. Coleridge. 

AGGLUTINANT:  Uniting, as glue; causing, or tending to cause, adhesion.  -- n.  Any viscous substance which causes bodies or parts to adhere. 

AGGLUTINATE:  To unite, or cause to adhere, as with glue or other viscous substance; to unite by causing an adhesion of substances. 

AGGLUTINATE:  Consisting of root words combined but not materially altered as to form or meaning; as, agglutinate forms, languages, etc. See Agglutination, 2. 

AGGLUTINATION:  Combination in which root words are united with little or no change of form or loss of meaning. See Agglutinative, 2. 

AGGLUTINATIVE:  Formed or characterized by agglutination, as a language or a compound. In agglutinative languages the union of words may be compared to mechanical compounds, in inflective languages to chemical compounds. R. Morris. Cf. man-kind, heir-loom, war-like, which are agglutinative compounds. The Finnish, Hungarian, Turkish, the Tamul, etc., are agglutinative languages. R. Morris. Agglutinative languages preserve the consciousness of their roots. Max Müller. 

AGGRACE:  To favor; to grace. [Obs.] "That knight so much aggraced." Spenser. 

AGGRACE:  Grace; favor. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AGGRADE:  To bring, or tend to bring, to a uniform grade, or slope, by addition of material; as, streams aggrade their beds by depositing sediment. 

AGGRANDIZABLE:  Capable of being aggrandized. 

AGGRANDIZATION:  Aggrandizement. [Obs.] Waterhouse. 

AGGRANDIZE:  To increase or become great. [Obs.] Follies, continued till old age, do aggrandize. J. Hall. 

AGGRANDIZEMENT:  The act of aggrandizing, or the state of being aggrandized or exalted in power, rank, honor, or wealth; exaltation; enlargement; as, the emperor seeks only the aggrandizement of his own family.  Syn.  -- Augmentation; exaltation; enlargement; advancement; promotion; preferment. 

AGGRANDIZER:  One who aggrandizes, or makes great. 

AGGRATE:  To please. [Obs.] Each one sought his lady to aggrate. Spenser. 

AGGRAVATINGLY:  In an aggravating manner. 

AGGRAVATIVE:  Tending to aggravate. Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv.  -- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n. No aggressive movement was made. Macaulay. 

AGGREGATELY:  Collectively; in mass. 

AGGREGATION:  The act of aggregating, or the state of being aggregated; collection into a mass or sum; a collection of particulars; an aggregate.  Each genus is made up by aggregation of species. Carpenter.  A nation is not an idea only of local extent and individual momentary aggregation, but . . . of continuity, which extends in time as well as in numbers, and in space. Burke. 

AGGREGATOR:  One who aggregates. 

AGGREGE:  To make heavy; to aggravate. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AGGRESS:  To commit the first act of hostility or offense; to begin a quarrel or controversy; to make an attack; -- with on. 

AGGRESS:  Aggression. [Obs.]  Their military aggresses on others. Sir M. Hale. 

AGGRESS:  To set upon; to attack. [R.] 

AGGRESSION:  The first attack, or act of hostility; the first act of injury, or first act leading to a war or a controversy; unprovoked attack; assault; as, a war of aggression. "Aggressions of power."  Hallam  Syn. -- Attack; offense; intrusion; provocation. 

AGGRESSIVE:  Tending or disposed to aggress; characterized by aggression; making assaults; unjustly attacking; as, an aggressive policy, war, person, nation. -- Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv. -- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n.  No aggressive movement was made. Macaulay. 

AGGRESSOR:  The person who first attacks or makes an aggression; he who begins hostility or a quarrel; an assailant. The insolence of the aggressor is usually proportioned to the tameness of the sufferer. Ames. 

AGGRIEVANCE:  Oppression; hardship; injury; grievance. [Archaic] 

AGGRIEVE:  To give pain or sorrow to; to afflict; hence, to oppress or injure in one's rights; to bear heavily upon; -- now commonly used in the passive TO be aggrieved. Aggrieved by oppression and extortion. Macaulay. 

AGGRIEVE:  To grieve; to lament. [Obs.] 

AGGROUP:  To bring together in a group; to group. Dryden. 

AGGROUPMENT:  Arrangement in a group or in groups; grouping.  AGGRY; AGGRI Ag"gry, Ag"gri, a.  Applied to a kind of variegated glass beads of ancient manufacture; as, aggry beads are found in Ashantee and Fantee in Africa. 

AGHAST:  See Agast, v. t. [Obs.] 

AGHAST:  Terrified; struck with amazement; showing signs of terror or horror. Aghast he waked; and, starting from his bed, Cold sweat in clammy drops his limbs o'erspread. Dryden. The commissioners read and stood aghast. Macaulay. 

AGIBLE:  Possible to be done; practicable. [Obs.] "Fit for agible things." Sir A. Sherley. 

AGILE:  Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or ready to move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue. Shaking it with agile hand. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Active; alert; nimble; brisk; lively; quick. 

AGILELY:  In an agile manner; nimbly. 

AGILENESS:  Agility; nimbleness. [R.] 

AGIO:  The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it is given in exchange for an inferior sort. The premium or discount on foreign bills of exchange is sometimes called agio. 

AGIOTAGE:  Exchange business; also, stockjobbing; the maneuvers of speculators to raise or lower the price of stocks or public funds. Vanity and agiotage are to a Parisian the oxygen and hydrogen of life. Landor. 

AGIST:  To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- used originally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, and collecting the money for the same. Blackstone. 

AGISTATOR:  See Agister.  AGISTER; AGISTOR A*gist"er, A*gist"or, n. Etym: [Anglo-Norman agistour.] (Law) (a) Formerly, an officer of the king's forest, who had the care of cattle agisted, and collected the money for the same; -- hence called gisttaker, which in England is corrupted into guest-taker. (b) Now, one who agists or takes in cattle to pasture at a certain rate; a pasturer. Mozley & W. 

AGITABLE:  Capable of being agitated, or easily moved. [R.] 

AGITATEDLY:  In an agitated manner. 

AGITATIVE:  Tending to agitate. 

AGITATO:  Sung or played in a restless, hurried, and spasmodic manner. 

AGITATOR:  One of a body of men appointed by the army, in Cromwell's time, to look after their interests; -- called also adjutators. Clarendon.  3. An implement for shaking or mixing. 

AGLEAM:  Gleaming; as, faces agleam. Lowell.  AGLET; AIGLET Ag"let, Aig"let, n. Etym: [F. aiguillette point, tagged point, dim. of aiguilee needle, fr. LL. acucula for acicula, dim. of L. acus needle, pinagleter to hook on. See Acute, and cf. Aiguillette.]  1. A tag of a lace or of the points, braids, or cords formerly used in dress. They were sometimes formed into small images. Hence, "aglet baby" (Shak.), an aglet image.  2. (Haberdashery)  A round white staylace. Beck. 

AGLEY:  Aside; askew. [Scotch] Burns. 

AGLIMMER:  In a glimmering state. Hawthorne. 

AGLITTER:  Clittering; in a glitter. 

AGLOSSAL:  Without tongue; tongueless. 

AGLOW:  In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow. 

AGLUTITION:  Inability to swallow. 

AGMINAL:  Pertaining to an army marching, or to a train. [R.]  AGMINATE; AGMINATED Ag"mi*nate, Ag"mi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. agmen, agminis, a train, crowd.] (Physiol.)  Grouped together; as, the agminated glands of Peyer in the small intestine. 

AGNATE:  A relative whose relationship can be traced exclusively through males. 

AGNATIC:  Pertaining to descent by the male line of ancestors. "The agnatic succession." Blackstone. 

AGNATION:  Consanguinity by a line of males only, as distinguished from cognation. Bouvier. 

AGNITION:  Acknowledgment. [Obs.] Grafton. 

AGNIZE:  To recognize; to acknowledge. [Archaic] I do agnize a natural and prompt alacrity. Shak. 

AGNOIOLOGY:  The doctrine concerning those things of which we are necessarily ignorant. 

AGNOMINATE:  To name. [Obs.] 

AGNOSTIC:  Professing ignorance; involving no dogmatic; pertaining to or involving agnosticism.  -- Ag*nos"tic*al*ly, adv. 

AGNOSTIC:  One who professes ignorance, or denies that we have any knowledge, save of phenomena; one who supports agnosticism, neither affirming nor denying the existence of a personal Deity, a future life, etc. 

AGNOSTICISM:  That doctrine which, professing ignorance, neither asserts nor denies. Specifically: (Theol.)  The doctrine that the existence of a personal Deity, an unseen world, etc., can be neither proved nor disproved, because of the necessary limits of the human mind (as sometimes charged upon Hamilton and Mansel), or because of the insufficiency of the evidence furnished by physical and physical data, to warrant a positive conclusion (as taught by the school of Herbert Spencer); -- opposed alike dogmatic skepticism and to dogmatic theism. 

AGNUS:  Agnus Dei.  AGNUS CASTUS Ag"nus cas"tus. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  A species of Vitex (V. agnus castus); the chaste tree. Loudon. And wreaths of agnus castus others bore. Dryden.  AGNUS DEI Ag"nus De"i. Etym: [L., lamb of God.] (R. C. Ch.) (a) A figure of a lamb bearing a cross or flag. (b) A cake of wax stamped with such a figure. It is made from the remains of the paschal candles and blessed by the Pope. (c) A triple prayer in the sacrifice of the Mass, beginning with the words "Agnus Dei."  AGNUS SCYTHICUS Ag"nus Scyth"i*cus. [L., Scythian lamb.] (Bot.)  The Scythian lamb, a kind of woolly-skinned rootstock. See Barometz. 

AGO:  Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago. 

AGOG:  In eager desire; eager; astir. All agog to dash through thick and thin. Cowper. 

AGOING:  In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing. 

AGON:  A contest for a prize at the public games. 

AGONE:  Ago. [Archaic. & Poet.] Three days agone I fell sick. 1 Sam. xxx. 13. 

AGONE:  Agonic line. 

AGONIC:  Not forming an angle. Agonic line (Physics), an imaginary line on the earth's surface passing through those places where the magnetic needle points to the true north; the line of no magnetic variation. There is one such line in the Western hemisphere, and another in the Eastern hemisphere. 

AGONISM:  Contention for a prize; a contest. [Obs.] Blount. 

AGONIST:  One who contends for the prize in public games. [R.]  AGONISTIC; AGONISTICAL Ag`o*nis"tic, Ag`o*nis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Agonism.]  Pertaining to violent contests, bodily or mental; pertaining to athletic or polemic feats; athletic; combative; hence, strained; unnatural. As a scholar, he [Dr. Parr] was brilliant, but he consumed his power in agonistic displays. De Quincey. 

AGONISTICALLY:  In an agonistic manner. 

AGONISTICS:  The science of athletic combats, or contests in public games. 

AGONIZE:  To cause to suffer agony; to subject to extreme pain; to torture. He agonized his mother by his behavior. Thackeray. 

AGONIZINGLY:  With extreme anguish or desperate struggles. 

AGONOTHETE:  An officer who presided over the great public games in Greece. 

AGONOTHETIC:  Pertaining to the office of an agonothete. 

AGONY:  In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood." Shak. 

AGOOD:  In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood."  Shak. 

AGORA:  An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially the market place, in an ancient Greek city. 

AGOUARA:  The crab-eating raccoon (Procyon cancrivorus), found in the tropical parts of America. 

AGOUTA:  A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus), allied to the moles, found only in Hayti.  AGOUTI; AGOUTY A*gou"ti, A*gou"ty, n. Etym: [F. agouti, acouti, Sp. aguti, fr. native name.] (Zoöl.)  A rodent of the genus Dasyprocta, about the size of a rabbit, peculiar to South America and the West Indies. The most common species is the Dasyprocta agouti. 

AGRACE:  See Aggrace. [Obs.] 

AGRAMMATIST:  A illiterate person. [Obs.] Bailey. 

AGRAPHIA:  The absence or loss of the power of expressing ideas by written signs. It is one form of aphasia. 

AGRAPHIC:  Characterized by agraphia. 

AGRAPPES:  Hooks and eyes for armor, etc. Fairholt. 

AGRARIAN:  Wild; -- said of plants growing in the fields. 

AGRARIANISM:  An equal or equitable division of landed property; the principles or acts of those who favor a redistribution of land. 

AGRARIANIZE:  To distribute according to, or to imbue with, the principles of agrarianism.  AGRE; AGREE A*gre", A*gree", adv. Etym: [F. à gré. See Agree.]  In good part; kindly. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

AGREE:  To correspond in gender, number, case, or person.  Note: The auxiliary forms of to be are often employed with the participle agreed. "The jury were agreed." Macaulay. "Can two walk together, except they be agreed " Amos iii. 3. The principal intransitive uses were probably derived from the transitive verb used reflexively. "I agree me well to your desire." Ld. Berners.  Syn.  -- To assent; concur; consent; acquiesce; accede; engage; promise; stipulate; contract; bargain; correspond; harmonize; fit; tally; coincide; comport. 

AGREEINGLY:  In an agreeing manner (to); correspondingly; agreeably. [Obs.] 

AGREEMENT:  Concord or correspondence of one word with another in gender, number, case, or person.  3. (Law) (a) A concurrence in an engagement that something shall be done or omitted; an exchange of promises; mutual understanding, arrangement, or stipulation; a contract. (b) The language, oral or written, embodying reciprocal promises. Abbott. Brande & C.  Syn.  -- Bargain; contract; compact; stipulation. 

AGREER:  One who agrees. 

AGRESTIC:  Pertaining to fields or the country, in opposition to the city; rural; rustic; unpolished; uncouth. "Agrestic behavior." Gregory. 

AGRESTICAL:  Agrestic. [Obs.] 

AGRICOLATION:  Agriculture. [Obs.] Bailey. 

AGRICOLIST:  A cultivator of the soil; an agriculturist. Dodsley. 

AGRICULTOR:  An agriculturist; a farmer. [R.] 

AGRICULTURAL:  Of or pertaining to agriculture; connected with, or engaged in, tillage; as, the agricultural class; agricultural implements, wages, etc.  -- Ag`ri*cul"tur*al*ly, adv. Agricultural ant (Zoöl.), a species of ant which gathers and stores seeds of grasses, for food. The remarkable species (Myrmica barbata) found in Texas clears circular areas and carefully cultivates its favorite grain, known as ant rice. 

AGRICULTURALIST:  An agriculturist (which is the preferred form.) 

AGRICULTURE:  The art or science of cultivating the ground, including the harvesting of crops, and the rearing and management of live stock; tillage; husbandry; farming. 

AGRICULTURISM:  Agriculture. [R.] 

AGRICULTURIST:  One engaged or skilled in agriculture; a husbandman. The farmer is always a practitioner, the agriculturist may be a mere theorist. Crabb. 

AGRIEF:  In grief; amiss. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AGRIN:  In the act of grinning. "His visage all agrin." Tennyson. 

AGRIOLOGIST:  One versed or engaged in agriology. 

AGRIOLOGY:  Description or comparative study of the customs of savage or uncivilized tribes. 

AGRISE:  To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AGROM:  A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the East Indies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves.  AGRONOMIC; AGRONOMICAL Ag`ro*nom"ic, Ag`ro*nom"ic*al, Etym: [Cf. F. agronomique.]  Pertaining to agronomy, of the management of farms. 

AGRONOMICS:  The science of the distribution and management of land. 

AGRONOMIST:  One versed in agronomy; a student of agronomy. 

AGRONOMY:  The management of land; rural economy; agriculture. 

AGROPE:  In the act of groping. Mrs. Browning. 

AGROSTIS:  A genus of grasses, including species called in common language bent grass. Some of them, as redtop (Agrostis vulgaris), are valuable pasture grasses.  AGROSTOGRAPHIC; AGROSTOGRAPHICAL A*gros`to*graph"ic, A*gros`to*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. agrostographique.]  Pertaining to agrostography. 

AGROSTOGRAPHY:  A description of the grasses.  AGROSTOLOGIC; AGROSTOLOGICAL A*gros`to*log"ic, A*gros`to*log"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to agrostology. 

AGROSTOLOGIST:  One skilled in agrostology. 

AGROSTOLOGY:  That part of botany which treats of the grasses. 

AGROTECHNY:  That branch of agriculture dealing with the methods of conversion of agricultural products into manufactured articles; agricultural technology. 

AGROUND:  On the ground; stranded; -- a nautical term applied to a ship when its bottom lodges on the ground. Totten. 

AGROUPMENT:  See Aggroupment. 

AGRYPNOTIC:  Anything which prevents sleep, or produces wakefulness, as strong tea or coffee. 

AGUE:  An intermittent fever, attended by alternate cold and hot fits.  3. The cold fit or rigor of the intermittent fever; as, fever and ague.  4. A chill, or state of shaking, as with cold. Dryden. Ague cake, an enlargement of the spleen produced by ague.  -- Ague drop, a solution of the arsenite of potassa used for ague.  -- Ague fit, a fit of the ague. Shak.  -- Ague spell, a spell or charm against ague. Gay.  -- Ague tree, the sassafras, -- sometimes so called from the use of its root formerly, in cases of ague. [Obs.] 

AGUE:  To strike with an ague, or with a cold fit. Heywood. 

AGUILT:  To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AGUISE:  Dress. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

AGUISE:  To dress; to attire; to adorn. [Obs.] Above all knights ye goodly seem aguised. Spenser. 

AGUSH:  In a gushing state. Hawthorne. 

AGYNOUS:  Without female organs; male. 

AH:  An exclamation, expressive of surprise, pity, complaint, entreaty, contempt, threatening, delight, triumph, etc., according to the manner of utterance. 

AHA:  An exclamation expressing, by different intonations, triumph, mixed with derision or irony, or simple surprise. 

AHA:  A sunk fence. See Ha-ha. Mason. 

AHEAP:  In a heap; huddled together. Hood. 

AHEIGHT:  Aloft; on high. [Obs.] "Look up aheight." Shak. 

AHEM:  An exclamation to call one's attention; hem. 

AHEY:  Hey; ho. 

AHIGH:  On high. [Obs.] Shak. 

AHOLD:  Near the wind; as, to lay a ship ahold. [Obs.] Shak. 

AHORSEBACK:  On horseback. Two suspicious fellows ahorseback. Smollet. 

AHOY:  A term used in hailing; as, "Ship ahoy." 

AHRIMAN:  The Evil Principle or Being of the ancient Persians; the Prince of Darkness as opposer to Ormuzd, the King of Light. 

AHU:  The Asiatic gazelle. 

AHULL:  With the sails furled, and the helm lashed alee; -- applied to ships in a storm. See Hull, n. 

AHUNGERED:  Pinched with hunger; very hungry. C. Bronté. 

AI:  The three-toed sloth (Bradypus tridactylus) of South America. See Sloth.  AIBLINS; ABLINS Ai"blins, A"blins, adv. Etym: [See Able.]  Perhaps; possibly. [Scotch] Burns.  AICH'S METAL Aich's met"al.  A kind of gun metal, containing copper, zinc, and iron, but no tin. 

AID:  To support, either by furnishing strength or means in coöperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; to help; to assist. You speedy helpers . . . Appear and aid me in this enterprise. Shak.  Syn.  -- To help; assist; support; sustain; succor; relieve; befriend; coöperate; promote. See Help. 

AID:  A subsidy granted to the king by Parliament; also, an exchequer loan.  4. (Feudal Law)  A pecuniary tribute paid by a vassal to his lord on special occasions. Blackstone.  5. An aid-de-camp, so called by abbreviation; as, a general's aid. Aid prayer (Law), a proceeding by which a defendant beseeches and claims assistance from some one who has a further or more permanent interest in the matter in suit.  -- To pray in aid, to beseech and claim such assistance. 

AIDANCE:  Aid. [R.] Aidance 'gainst the enemy. Shak. 

AIDANT:  Helping; helpful; supplying aid. Shak.  AID-DE-CAMP Aid"-de-camp`, n.; pl. Aids-de-camp.. Etym: [F. aide de camp (literally) camp assistant.] (Mil.)  An officer selected by a general to carry orders, also to assist or represent him in correspondence and in directing movements. 

AIDER:  One who, or that which, aids. 

AIDFUL:  Helpful. [Archaic.] Bp. Hall. 

AIDLESS:  Helpless; without aid. Milton.  AID-MAJOR Aid"-ma`jor, n.  The adjutant of a regiment. 

AIEL:  See Ayle. [Obs.] 

AIGLET:  Same as Aglet. 

AIGRE:  Sour. [Obs.] Shak. 

AIGREMORE:  Charcoal prepared for making powder.  AIGRET; AIGRETTE Ai"gret, Ai*grette, n. Etym: [F., a sort of white heron, with a tuft of feathers on its head; a tuft of feathers; dim. of the same word as heron. See Heron, and cf. Egret, Egrette.]  1. (Zoöl.)  The small white European heron. See Egret.  2. A plume or tuft for the head composed of feathers, or of gems, etc. Prescott.  3. A tuft like that of the egret. (Bot.)  A feathery crown of seed; egret; as, the aigrette or down of the dandelion or the thistle. 

AIGULET:  See Aglet. Spenser. 

AIL:  To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental; to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasiness or affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man I know not what ails him. What aileth thee, Hagar Gen. xxi. 17.  Note: It is never used to express a specific disease. We do not say, a fever ails him; but, something ails him. 

AIL:  To be affected with pain or uneasiness of any sort; to be ill or indisposed or in trouble. When he ails ever so little . . . he is so peevish. Richardson. 

AIL:  Indisposition or morbid affection. Pope. 

AILANTHUS:  Same as Ailantus. 

AILANTUS:  A genus of beautiful trees, natives of the East Indies. The tree imperfectly di 

AILERON:  A half gable, as at the end of a penthouse or of the aisle of a church.  2.  (Aëronautics) A small plane or surface capable of being manipulated by the pilot of a flying machine to preserve or destroy lateral balance; a hinged wing tip; a lateral stabilizing or balancing plane. 

AILETTE:  A small square shield, formerly worn on the shoulders of knights, -- being the prototype of the modern epaulet. Fairholt. 

AILMENT:  Indisposition; morbid affection of the body; -- not applied ordinarily to acute diseases. "Little ailments." Landsdowne. 

AILUROIDEA:  A group of the Carnivora, which includes the cats, civets, and hyenas. 

AIM:  To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; to direct, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against an object; as, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist or a blow (at something); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice). 

AIMER:  One who aims, directs, or points. 

AIMLESS:  Without aim or purpose; as, an aimless life.  -- Aim"less*ly, adv.  -- Aim"less*ness, n. 

AINO:  One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islands etc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposed to have been the progenitors of the Japanese. The Ainos are stout and short, with hairy bodies.  AIN'T Ain't.  A contraction for are not and am not; also used for is not. [Colloq. or llliterate speech]. See An't. 

AIR:  An artificial or affected manner; show of pride or vanity; haughtiness; as, it is said of a person, he puts on airs. Thackeray.  14. (Paint.) (a) The representation or reproduction of the effect of the atmospheric medium through which every object in nature is viewed. New Am. Cyc. (b) Carriage; attitude; action; movement; as, the head of that portrait has a good air. Fairholt.  15. (Man.)  The artificial motion or carriage of a horse.  Note: Air is much used adjectively or as the first part of a compound term. In most cases it might be written indifferently, as a separate limiting word, or as the first element of the compound term, with or without the hyphen; as, air bladder, air-bladder, or airbladder; air cell, air-cell, or aircell; air-pump, or airpump. Air balloon. See Balloon.  -- Air bath. (a) An apparatus for the application of air to the body. (b) An arrangement for drying substances in air of any desired temperature.  -- Air castle. See Castle in the air, under Castle.  -- Air compressor, a machine for compressing air to be used as a motive power.  -- Air crossing, a passage for air in a mine.  -- Air cushion, an air-tight cushion which can be inflated; also, a device for arresting motion without shock by confined air.  -- Air fountain, a contrivance for producing a jet of water by the force of compressed air.  -- Air furnace, a furnace which depends on a natural draft and not on blast.  -- Air line, a straight line; a bee line. Hence Air-line, adj.; as, air-line road.  -- Air lock (Hydr. Engin.), an intermediate chamber between the outer air and the compressed-air chamber of a pneumatic caisson. Knight.  -- Air port (Nav.), a scuttle or porthole in a ship to admit air.  -- Air spring, a spring in which the elasticity of air is utilized.  -- Air thermometer, a form of thermometer in which the contraction and expansion of air is made to measure changes of temperature.  -- Air threads, gossamer.  -- Air trap, a contrivance for shutting off foul air or gas from drains, sewers, etc.; a stench trap.  -- Air trunk, a pipe or shaft for conducting foul or heated air from a room.  -- Air valve, a valve to regulate the admission or egress of air; esp. a valve which opens inwardly in a steam boiler and allows air to enter.  -- Air way, a passage for a current of air; as the air way of an air pump; an air way in a mine.  -- In the air. (a) Prevalent without traceable origin or authority, as rumors. (b) Not in a fixed or stable position; unsettled. (c) (Mil.) Unsupported and liable to be turned or taken in flank; as, the army had its wing in the air.  -- To take air, to be divulged; to be made public.  -- To take the air, to go abroad; to walk or ride out. 

AIR:  A sack or matters inflated with air, and used as a bed.  AIR BLADDER Air" blad`der.  1. (Anat.)  An air sac, sometimes double or variously lobed, in the visceral cavity of many fishes. It originates in the same way as the lungs of air-breathing vertebrates, and in the adult may retain a tubular connection with the pharynx or esophagus.  2. A sac or bladder full of air in an animal or plant; also an air hole in a casting.  AIR BRAKE Air" brake`. (Mach.)  A railway brake operated by condensed air. Knight.  AIR BRUSH Air brush.  A kind of atomizer for applying liquid coloring matter in a spray by compressed air.  AIR-BUILT Air"-built`, a.  Erected in the air; having no solid foundation; chimerical; as, an air-built castle.  AIR CELL Air" cell`.  1. (Bot.)  A cavity in the cellular tissue of plants, containing air only.  2. (Anat.)  A receptacle of air in various parts of the system; as, a cell or minute cavity in the walls of the air tubes of the lungs; the air sac of birds; a dilatation of the air vessels in insects.  AIR CHAMBER Air" cham`ber.  1. A chamber or cavity filled with air, in an animal or plant.  2. A cavity containing air to act as a spring for equalizing the flow of a liquid in a pump or other hydraulic machine.  AIR COCK Air" cock`.  A faucet to allow escape of air.  AIR COOLING Air cooling.  In gasoline-engine motor vehicles, the cooling of the cylinder by increasing its radiating surface by means of ribs or radiators, and placing it so that it is exposed to a current of air. Cf. Water cooling. -- Air"-cooled`, a. 

AIRCRAFT:  Any device, as a balloon, aëroplane, etc., for floating in, or flying through, the air.  AIR-DRAWN Air"-drawn", a.  Drawn in air; imaginary. This is the air-drawn dagger. Shak.  AIR DRILL Air" drill`.  A drill driven by the elastic pressure of condensed air; a pneumatic drill. Knight.  AIR ENGINE Air" engine`.  An engine driven by heated or by compressed air. Knight. 

AIRER:  An air-filled gap in a magnetic or electric circuit; specif., in a dynamo or motor, the space between the field-magnet poles and the armature; clearance.  AIR GAS Air" gas`.  See under Gas.  AIR GUN Air" gun`.  A kind of gun in which the elastic force of condensed air is used to discharge the ball. The air is powerfully compressed into a reservoir attached to the gun, by a condensing pump, and is controlled by a valve actuated by the trigger.  AIR HOLE Air" hole`.  1. A hole to admit or discharge air; specifically, a spot in the ice not frozen over.  2. (Founding)  A fault in a casting, produced by a bubble of air; a blowhole. 

AIRILY:  In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; fippantly. 

AIRING:  A jacket having air-tight cells, or cavities which can be filled with air, to render persons buoyant in swimming. 

AIRLESS:  Not open to a free current of air; wanting fresh air, or communication with the open air.  AIR LEVEL Air" lev`el.  Spirit level. See Level. 

AIRLIKE:  Resembling air.  AIR LINE Air line.  A path through the air made easy for aërial navigation by steady winds. 

AIRLING:  A thoughtless, gay person. [Obs.] "Slight airlings." B. Jonson. 

AIRMAN:  A man who ascends or flies in an aircraft; a flying machine pilot. 

AIRMANSHIP:  Art, skill, or ability in the practice of aërial navigation. 

AIROL:  A grayish green antiseptic powder, consisting of a basic iodide and gallate of bismuth, sometimes used in place of iodoform. [A Trademark] 

AIROMETER:  A hollow cylinder to contain air. It is closed above and open below, and has its open end plunged into water.  AIR PIPE Air" pipe`.  A pipe for the passage of air; esp. a ventilating pipe.  AIR PLANT Air" plant`. (Bot.)  A plant deriving its sustenance from the air alone; an aërophyte.  Note: The "Florida moss" (Tillandsia), many tropical orchids, and most mosses and lichens are air plants. Those which are lodged upon trees, but not parasitic on them, are epiphytes.  AIR POISE Air" poise`. Etym: [See Poise.]  A  AIR PUMP Air" pump`.  1. (Physics)  A kind of pump for exhausting air from a vessel or closed space; also, a pump to condense air of force in into a closed space.  2. (Steam Engines)  A pump used to exhaust from a condenser the condensed steam, the water used for condensing, and any commingled air.  AIR SAC Air" sac`. (Anat.)  One of the spaces in different parts. of the bodies of birds, which are filled with air and connected with the air passages of the lungs; an air cell.  AIR SHAFT Air" shaft`.  A passage, usually vertical, for admitting fresh air into a mine or a tunnel. 

AIRSICK:  Affected with aërial sickness. -- Air"sick`ness, n.  AIR-SLACKED Air"-slacked`, a.  Slacked, or pulverized, by exposure to the air; as, air-slacked lime.  AIR STOVE Air" stove`.  A stove for heating a current of air which is directed against its surface by means of pipes, and then distributed through a building.  AIR-TIGHT Air"-tight`, a.  So tight as to be impermeable to air; as, an air-tight cylinder.  AIR-TIGHT Air"-tight`, n.  A stove the draft of which can be almost entirely shut off. [Colloq. U. S.]  AIR VESSEL Air" ves`sel.  A vessel, cell, duct, or tube containing or conducting air; as the air vessels of insects, birds, plants, etc.; the air vessel of a pump, engine, etc. For the latter, see Air chamber. The air vessels of insects are called tracheæ, of plants spiral vessels.  AIRWARD; AIRWARDS Air"ward, Air"wards, adv.  Toward the air; upward. [R.] Keats. 

AIRWOMAN:  A woman who ascends or flies in an aircraft. 

AIRY:  Having the light and aërial tints true to nature. Elmes. 

AISLED:  Furnished with an aisle or aisles. 

AISLESS:  Without an aisle. 

AIT:  An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot. The ait where the osiers grew. R. Hodges (1649). Among green aits and meadows. Dickens. 

AIT:  Oat. [Scot.] Burns. 

AITCH:  The letter h or H. 

AITCHBONE:  The bone of the rump; also, the cut of beef surrounding this bone. [Spelt also edgebone.] 

AITIOLOGY:  See Ætiology. 

AJAR:  Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar. 

AJAR:  In a state of discord; out of harmony; as, he is ajar with the world. 

AJAVA:  See Ajouan. 

AJOG:  On the jog.  AJOUAN; AJOWAN Aj"ou*an  Aj"ow*an, n. [Written also ajwain.] [Prob. native name.] (Bot.)  The fruit of Ammi Copticum, syn. Carum Ajowan, used both as a medicine and as a condiment. An oil containing thymol is extracted from it. Called also Javanee seed, Javanese seed, and ajava. 

AJUTAGE:  A tube through which is water is discharged; an efflux tube; as, the ajutage of a fountain. 

AKE:  See Ache. 

AKENE:  Same as Achene. 

AKETON:  See Acton. 

AKIMBO:  With a crook or bend; with the hand on the hip and elbow turned outward. "With one arm akimbo." Irving. 

AKINESIA:  Paralysis of the motor nerves; loss of movement. Foster. 

AKINESIC:  Pertaining to akinesia. 

AKNEE:  On the knee. [R.] Southey. 

AKNOW:  Earlier form of Acknow. [Obs.] To be aknow, to acknowledge; to confess. [Obs.] 

AL:  All. [Obs.] Chaucer.  AL- Al-. A prefix. (a) Etym: [AS. eal.]  All; wholly; completely; as, almighty,almost. (b) Etym: [L. ad.]  To; at; on; -- in OF. shortened to a-. See Ad-. (c) The Arabic definite article answering to the English the; as, Alkoran, the Koran or the Book; alchemy, the chemistry. 

AL:  Although; if. [Obs.] See All, conj. 

ALA:  A winglike organ, or part.  ALABAMA PERIOD Al`a*ba"ma pe"ri*od. (Geol.)  A period in the American eocene, the lowest in the tertiary age except the lignitic. 

ALABASTRIAN:  Alabastrine. 

ALABASTRINE:  Of, pertaining to, or like, alabaster; as alabastrine limbs. 

ALABASTRUM:  A flower bud. Gray. 

ALACK:  An exclamation expressive of sorrow. [Archaic. or Poet.] Shak. 

ALACKADAY:  An exclamation expressing sorrow.  Note: Shakespeare has "alack the day" and "alack the heavy day." Compare "woe worth the day." 

ALACRIFY:  To rouse to action; to inspirit. 

ALACRIOUS:  Brisk; joyously active; lively. 'T were well if we were a little more alacrious. Hammond. 

ALACRIOUSLY:  With alacrity; briskly. 

ALACRIOUSNESS:  Alacrity. [Obs.] Hammond. 

ALACRITY:  A cheerful readiness, willingness, or promptitude; joyous activity; briskness; sprightliness; as, the soldiers advanced with alacrity to meet the enemy. I have not that alacrity of spirit, Nor cheer of mind that I was wont to have. Shak. 

ALADINIST:  One of a sect of freethinkers among the Mohammedans. 

ALALIA:  Inability to utter articulate sounds, due either to paralysis of the larynx or to that form of aphasia, called motor, or ataxis, aphasia, due to loss of control of the muscles of speech.  ALALONGA; ALILONGHI Al`a*lon"ga, or Al`i*lon"ghi, n. (Zoöl.)  The tunny. See Albicore. 

ALAMIRE:  The lowest note but one in Guido Aretino's scale of music. 

ALAMODALITY:  The quality of being à la mode; conformity to the mode or fashion; fashionableness. [R.] Southey. 

ALAMODE:  According to the fashion or prevailing mode. "Alamode beef shops." Macaulay. 

ALAMODE:  A thin, black silk for hoods, scarfs, etc.; -- often called simply mode. Buchanan. 

ALAMORT:  To the death; mortally. 

ALAN:  A wolfhound. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ALAND:  On land; to the land; ashore. "Cast aland." Sir P. Sidney. 

ALANINE:  A white crystalline base, C3H7NO2, derived from aldehyde ammonia. 

ALANTIN:  See Inulin. 

ALAR:  Axillary; in the fork or axil. Gray. 

ALARMABLE:  Easily alarmed or disturbed. 

ALARMED:  Aroused to vigilance; excited by fear of approaching danger; agitated; disturbed; as, an alarmed neighborhood; an alarmed modesty. The white pavilions rose and fell On the alarmed air. Longfellow. 

ALARMEDLY:  In an alarmed manner. 

ALARMING:  Exciting, or calculated to excite, alarm; causing apprehension of danger; as, an alarming crisis or report.  -- A*larm"ing*ly, adv. 

ALARMIST:  One prone to sound or excite alarms, especially, needless alarms. Macaulay. 

ALARUM:  See Alarm. [Now Poetic]  Note: The variant form alarum is now commonly restricted to an alarm signal or the mechanism to sound an alarm (as in an alarm clock.) 

ALARY:  Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped. The alary system of insects. Wollaston. 

ALAS:  An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension of evil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas the day, like alack a day, or alas the white. 

ALATE:  Lately; of late. [Archaic] There hath been alate such tales spread abroad. Latimer.  ALATE; ALATED A"late, A"la*ted, a. Etym: [L. alatus, from ala wing.]  Winged; having wings, or side appendages like wings.  ALATERN; ALATERNUS Al"a*tern, Al`a*ter"nus, n. Etym: [L. ala wing + terni three each.] (Bot.)  An ornamental evergreen shrub (Rhamnus alaternus) belonging to the buckthorns. 

ALATION:  The state of being winged. 

ALAUNT:  See Alan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ALB:  A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an enveloping the person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holy orders when officiating at mass. It was formerly worn, at least by clerics, in daily life. 

ALBACORE:  See Albicore. 

ALBAN:  A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta- percha by the action of alcohol or ether. 

ALBANIAN:  Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey.  -- n.  A native of Albania. 

ALBATA:  A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks, teapots, etc. British plate or German silver. See German silver, under German. 

ALBATROSS:  A web-footed bird, of the genus Diomedea, of which there are several species. They are the largest of sea birds, capable of long- continued flight, and are often seen at great distances from the land. They are found chiefly in the southern hemisphere.  ALBE; ALBEE Al`be", Al`bee", conj. Etym: [See Albeit.]  Although; albeit. [Obs.] Albe Clarissa were their chiefest founderess. Spenser. 

ALBEDO:  Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.) The ratio which the light reflected from an unpolished surface bears to the total light falling upon that surface. 

ALBEIT:  Even though; although; notwithstanding. Chaucer. Albeit so masked, Madam, I love the truth. Tennyson. 

ALBERTITE:  A bituminous mineral resembling asphaltum, found in the county of A.  ALBERT WARE Al"bert ware.  A soft ornamental terra-cotta pottery, sold in the biscuit state for decorating. 

ALBERTYPE:  A picture printed from a kind of gelatine plate produced by means of a photographic negative. 

ALBESCENCE:  The act of becoming white; whitishness. 

ALBESCENT:  Becoming white or whitish; moderately white. 

ALBICANT:  Growing or becoming white. 

ALBICATION:  The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, or streaks. 

ALBICORE:  A name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family, esp. Orcynus alalonga. One species (Orcynus thynnus), common in the Mediterranean and Atlantic, is called in New England the horse mackerel; the tunny. [Written also albacore.] 

ALBIFICATION:  The act or process of making white. [Obs.]  ALBIGENSES; ALBIGEOIS Al`bi*gen"ses, Al`bi`geois", n. pl. Etym: [From Albi and Albigeois, a town and its district in the south of France, in which the sect abounded.] (Eccl. Hist.)  A sect of reformers opposed to the church of Rome in the 12th centuries.  Note: The Albigenses were a branch of the Catharists (the pure). They were exterminated by crusades and the Inquisition. They were distinct from the Waldenses. 

ALBIGENSIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Albigenses. 

ALBINESS:  A female albino. Holmes. 

ALBINISM:  The state or condition of being an albino: abinoism; leucopathy. 

ALBINISTIC:  Affected with albinism. 

ALBINO:  A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by some defect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin, hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has a skin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deep red pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the lower animals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitish condition from the absence of chlorophyll. Amer. Cyc.  Note: The term was originally applied by the Portuguese to negroes met with on the coast of Africa, who were mottled with white spots. 

ALBINOISM:  The state or condition of being an albino; albinism. 

ALBINOTIC:  Affected with albinism. 

ALBION:  An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry. In that nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak. 

ALBITE:  A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization, and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a common constituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar. 

ALBOLITH:  A kind of plastic cement, or artificial stone, consisting chiefly of magnesia and silica; -- called also albolite. 

ALBORAK:  The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said to have been carried up to heaven; a white mule.  ALB SUNDAY Alb Sunday. (Eccl.)  The first Sunday after Easter Sunday, properly Albless Sunday, because in the early church those who had been baptized on Easter eve laid aside on the following Saturday their white albs which had been put on after baptism. 

ALBUGINEOUS:  Of the nature of, or resembling, the white of the eye, or of an egg; albuminous; -- a term applied to textures, humors, etc., which are perfectly white. 

ALBUGO:  Same as Leucoma. 

ALBUM:  A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list of names, etc.  2. A register for visitors' names; a visitors' book.  3. A blank book, in which to insert autographs sketches, memorial writing of friends, photographs, etc. 

ALBUMEN:  Nourishing matter stored up within the integuments of the seed in many plants, but not incorporated in the embryo. It is the floury part in corn, wheat, and like grains, the oily part in poppy seeds, the fleshy part in the cocoanut, etc.  3. (Chem.)  Same as Albumin. 

ALBUMENIZE:  To cover or saturate with albumen; to coat or treat with an albuminous solution; as, to albuminize paper.  ALBUM GRAECUM Al"bum Græ"cum. Etym: [L., Greek white.]  Dung of dogs or hyenas, which becomes white by exposure to air. It is used in dressing leather, and was formerly used in medicine. 

ALBUMIN:  A thick, viscous nitrogenous substance, which is the chief and characteristic constituent of white of eggs and of the serum of blood, and is found in other animal substances, both fluid and solid, also in many plants. It is soluble in water is coagulated by heat ad by certain chemical reagents. Acid albumin, a modification of albumin produced by the action of dilute acids. It is not coagulated by heat.  -- Alkali albumin, albumin as modified by the action of alkaline substances; -- called also albuminate. 

ALBUMINATE:  A substance produced by the action of an alkali upon albumin, and resembling casein in its properties; also, a compound formed by the union of albumin with another substance. 

ALBUMINIFEROUS:  Supplying albumen. 

ALBUMINIMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in a liquid. 

ALBUMININ:  The substance of the cells which inclose the white of birds' eggs. 

ALBUMINIPAROUS:  Producing albumin. 

ALBUMINOID:  Resembling albumin.  -- n.  One of a class of organic principles (called also proteids) which form the main part of organized tissues. Brunton. 

ALBUMINOIDAL:  Of the nature of an albuminoid. 

ALBUMINOSE:  A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action of natural or artificial gastric juice. See Peptone. 

ALBUMINOSIS:  A morbid condition due to excessive increase of albuminous elements in the blood.  ALBUMINOUS; ALBUMINOSE Al*bu"mi*nous, Al*bu"mi*nose`, a. Etym: [Cf. F. albumineux.]  Pertaining to, or containing, albumen; having the properties of, or resembling, albumen or albumin.  -- Al*bu"mi*nous*ness, n. 

ALBUMINURIA:  A morbid condition in which albumin is present in the urine. 

ALBUMOSE:  A compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by dilute acids or by an acid solution of pepsin. Used also in combination, as antialbumose, hemialbumose. 

ALBURN:  The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarly silvery color which are used in making artificial pearls. 

ALBURNOUS:  Of or pertaining to alburnum; of the alburnum; as, alburnous substances. 

ALBURNUM:  The white and softer part of wood, between the inner bark and the hard wood or duramen; sapwood. 

ALBYN:  Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland. T. Cambell. 

ALCADE:  Same as Alcaid. 

ALCAHEST:  Same as Alkahest. 

ALCAIC:  Pertaining to Alcæus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b. c.  -- n. A kind of verse, so called from Alcæus. One variety consists of five feet, a spondee or iambic, an iambic, a long syllable, and two dactyls.  ALCAID; ALCAYDE Al*caid", Al*cayde", n. Etym: [Sp. alcaide, fr. Ar. al-qa\'c6d governor, fr. qada to lead, govern.]  1. A commander of a castle or fortress among the Spaniards, Portuguese, and Moors.  2. The warden, or keeper of a jail. 

ALCALDE:  A magistrate or judge in Spain and in Spanish America, etc. Prescott.  Note: Sometimes confounded with Alcaid. 

ALCALDIA:  The jurisdiction or office of an alcalde; also, the building or chamber in which he conducts the business of his office. 

ALCALIMETER:  See Alkalimeter. 

ALCANNA:  An oriental shrub (Lawsonia inermis) from which henna is obtained. 

ALCARRAZA:  A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids by evaporation from the exterior surface. 

ALCAYDE:  Same as Alcaid. 

ALCAZAR:  A fortress; also, a royal palace. Prescott. 

ALCEDO:  A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher (Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon.  ALCHEMIC; ALCHEMICAL Al*chem"ic, Al*chem"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alchimique.]  Of or relating to alchemy. 

ALCHEMICALLY:  In the manner of alchemy. 

ALCHEMIST:  One who practices alchemy. You are alchemist; make gold. Shak.  ALCHEMISTIC; ALCHEMISTICAL Al`che*mis"tic, Al`che*mis"tic*al, a.  Relating to or practicing alchemy. Metaphysical and alchemistical legislators. Burke. 

ALCHEMISTRY:  Alchemy. [Obs.] 

ALCHEMIZE:  To change by alchemy; to transmute. Lovelace. 

ALCHEMY:  See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy. 

ALCO:  A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines.  ALCOATE; ALCOHATE Al"co*ate, Al"co*hate, n.  Shortened forms of Alcoholate. 

ALCOHOL:  A class of compounds analogous to vinic alcohol in constitution. Chemically speaking, they are hydroxides of certain organic radicals; as, the radical ethyl forms common or ethyl alcohol (C2H5OH); methyl forms methyl alcohol (CH3.OH) or wood spirit; amyl forms amyl alcohol (C5H11.OH) or fusel oil, etc. 

ALCOHOLATE:  A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which the latter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization. Graham. 

ALCOHOLATURE:  An alcoholic tincture prepared with fresh plants. New Eng. Dict. 

ALCOHOLIC:  Of or pertaining to alcohol, or partaking of its qualities; derived from, or caused by, alcohol; containing alcohol; as, alcoholic mixtures; alcoholic gastritis; alcoholic odor. 

ALCOHOLIC:  Alcoholic liquors. 

ALCOHOLISM:  A diseased condition of the system, brought about by the continued use of alcoholic liquors. 

ALCOHOLIZE:  An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol, either by weight or volume. It is usually a form of hydrometer with a special scale.  ALCOHOLOMETRIC; ALCOHOLOMETRICAL; ALCOHOLMETRICAL Al`co*hol`o*met"ric, Al`co*hol`o*met"ric*al, Al`co*hol*met"ric*al, a.  Relating to the alcoholometer or alcoholometry. The alcoholometrical strength of spirituous liquors. Ure. 

ALCOHOLOMETRY:  The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of pure alcohol which spirituous liquors contain.  ALCOHOMETER; ALCOHOMETRIC Al`co*hom"e*ter, n., Al`co*ho*met"ric, a.  Same as Alcoholometer, Alcoholometric.  ALCOOMETRY; ALCOOEMETRY Al`co*öm"e*try, n.  See Alcoholometry.  Note: The chemists say alcomètre, alcoomètrie, doubtless by the suppression of a syllable in order to avoid a disagreeable sequence of sounds. (Cf. Idolatry.) Littré. 

ALCORAN:  The Mohammedan Scriptures; the Koran (now the usual form). [Spelt also Alcoran.] 

ALCORANIC:  Of or pertaining to the Koran. 

ALCORANIST:  One who adheres to the letter of the Koran, rejecting all traditions. 

ALCORNOQUE:  The bark of several trees, esp. of Bowdichia virgilioides of Brazil, used as a remedy for consumption; of Byrsonima crassifolia, used in tanning; of Alchornea latifolia, used medicinally; or of Quercus ilex, the cork tree. 

ALCOVE:  A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess in a library.  2. A small ornamental building with seats, or an arched seat, in a pleasure ground; a garden bower. Cowper.  3. Any natural recess analogous to an alcove or recess in an apartment. The youthful wanderers found a wild alcove. Falconer. 

ALCYON:  See Halcyon. 

ALCYONACEA:  A group of soft-bodied Alcyonaria, of which Alcyonium is the type. See Illust. under Alcyonaria. 

ALCYONARIA:  One of the orders of Anthozoa. It includes the Alcyonacea, Pennatulacea, and Gorgonacea. 

ALCYONES:  The kingfishers. 

ALCYONIC:  Of or pertaining to the Alcyonaria. 

ALCYONIUM:  A genus of fleshy Alcyonaria, its polyps somewhat resembling flowers with eight fringed rays. The term was also formerly used for certain species of sponges. 

ALCYONOID:  Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.  -- n.  A zoöphyte of the order Alcyonaria. 

ALDAY:  Continually. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ALDEBARAN:  A red star of the first magnitude, situated in the eye of Taurus; the Bull's Eye. It is the bright star in the group called the Hyades. Now when Aldebaran was mounted high Above the shiny Cassiopeia's chair. Spenser. 

ALDEHYDE:  A colorless, mobile, and very volatile liquid obtained from alcohol by certain of oxidation.  Note: The aldehydes are intermediate between the alcohols and acids, and differ from the alcohols in having two less hydrogen atoms in the molecule, as common aldehyde (called also acetic aldehyde or ethyl aldehyde), C2H4O; methyl aldehyde, CH2O. Aldehyde ammonia (Chem.), a compound formed by the union of aldehyde with ammonia. 

ALDEHYDIC:  Of or pertaining to aldehyde; as, aldehydic acid. Miller. 

ALDER:  A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to the genus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers and tanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs or small trees. Black alder. (a) A European shrub (Rhamnus frangula); Alder buckthorn. (b) An American species of holly (Ilex verticillata), bearing red berries.  ALDER; ALLER Al"der, Al"ler, a. Etym: [From ealra, alra, gen. pl. of AS. eal. The d is excrescent.]  Of all; -- used in composition; as, alderbest, best of all, alderwisest, wisest of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.  ALDER FLY Al"der fly.  1. Any of numerous neuropterous insects of the genus Sialis or allied genera. They have aquatic larvæ, which are used for bait.  2.  (Angling) An artificial fly with brown mottled wings, body of peacock harl, and black legs.  ALDER-LIEFEST Al`der-lief"est, a. Etym: [For allerliefest dearest of all. See Lief.]  Most beloved. [Obs.] Shak. 

ALDERMANCY:  The office of an alderman. 

ALDERMANIC:  Relating to, becoming to, or like, an alderman; characteristic of an alderman. 

ALDERMANLIKE:  Like or suited to an alderman. 

ALDERMANLY:  Pertaining to, or like, an alderman. 

ALDERMANLY:  Pertaining to, or like, an alderman. "An aldermanly discretion." Swift. 

ALDERMANSHIP:  The condition, position, or office of an alderman. Fabyan. 

ALDERN:  Made of alder. 

ALDERNEY:  One of a breed of cattle raised in Alderney, one of the Channel Islands. Alderneys are of a dun or tawny color and are often called Jersey cattle. See Jersey, 3. 

ALDINE:  An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) which proceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, of Venice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the sign of the anchor and the dolphin. The term has also been applied to certain elegant editions of English works. 

ALDOL:  A colorless liquid, C4H8O2, obtained by condensation of two molecules of acetaldehyde: CH3CHO + CH3CHO = H3CH(OH)CH2CO; also, any of various derivatives of this. The same reaction has been applied, under the name of aldol condensation, to the production of many compounds. 

ALEAK:  In a leaking condition. 

ALEATORY:  Depending on some uncertain contingency; as, an aleatory contract. Bouvier. 

ALEBENCH:  A bench in or before an alehouse. Bunyan. 

ALEBERRY:  A beverage, formerly made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, and sops of bread. Their aleberries, caudles, possets. Beau. & Fl. 

ALECITHAL:  Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which have little or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm. Balfour. 

ALECONNER:  Orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale and beer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London to inspect the measures used in public houses. But the office is a sinecure. [Also called aletaster.] [Eng.] 

ALECOST:  The plant costmary, which was formerly much used for flavoring ale. 

ALECTORIDES:  A group of birds including the common fowl and the pheasants. 

ALECTOROMACHY:  Cockfighting. 

ALECTOROMANCY:  See Alectryomancy. 

ALECTRYOMACHY:  Cockfighting. 

ALECTRYOMANCY:  Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on the letters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the order in which the grains were eaten. Amer. Cyc. 

ALEE:  On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the opposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed close to the lee side. Hard alee, or Luff alee, an order to put the helm to the lee side. 

ALEGAR:  Sour ale; vinegar made of ale. Cecil. 

ALEGER:  Gay; cheerful; sprightly. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ALEGGE:  To allay or alleviate; to lighten. [Obs.] That shall alegge this bitter blast. Spenser. 

ALEHOOF:  Ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma). 

ALEHOUSE:  A house where ale is retailed; hence, a tippling house. Macaulay.  ALE-KNIGHT Ale"-knight`, n.  A pot companion. [Obs.] 

ALEM:  The imperial standard of the Turkish Empire. 

ALEMANNIC:  Belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike German tribes. 

ALEMANNIC:  The language of the Alemanni. The Swabian dialect . . . is known as the Alemannic. Amer. Cyc. 

ALEMBIC:  An apparatus formerly used in distillation, usually made of glass or metal. It has mostly given place to the retort and worm still. Used also metaphorically. The alembic of a great poet's imagination. Brimley. 

ALEMBROTH:  The salt of wisdom of the alchemists, a double salt composed of the chlorides of ammonium and mercury. It was formerly used as a stimulant. Brande & C.  ALENCON LACE A`len`con" lace".  See under Lace. 

ALENGTH:  At full length; lenghtwise. Chaucer. 

ALEPIDOTE:  Not having scales.  -- n.  A fish without scales. 

ALEPOLE:  A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse. [Obs.]  ALEPPO BOIL; ALEPPO BUTTON; ALEPPO EVIL A*lep"po boil, button, or evil. (Med.)  A chronic skin affection terminating in an ulcer, most commonly of the face. It is endemic along the Mediterranean, and is probably due to a specific bacillus. Called also Aleppo ulcer, Biskara boil, Delhi boil, Oriental sore, etc.  ALEPPO GRASS Aleppo grass. (Bot.)  One of the cultivated forms of Andropogon Halepensis (syn. Sorghum Halepense). See Andropogon, below. 

ALERT:  An alarm from a real or threatened attack; a sudden attack; also, a bugle sound to give warning. "We have had an alert." Farrow. On the alert, on the lookout or watch against attack or danger; ready to act. 

ALERTLY:  In an alert manner; nimbly. 

ALERTNESS:  The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness; nimbleness; activity.  ALE SILVER Ale" sil`ver.  A duty payable to the lord mayor of London by the sellers of ale within the city. 

ALESTAKE:  A stake or pole projecting from, or set up before, an alehouse, as a sign; an alepole. At the end was commonly suspended a garland, a bunch of leaves, or a "bush." [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ALETASTER:  See Aleconner. [Eng.] 

ALETHIOLOGY:  The science which treats of the nature of truth and evidence. Sir W. Hamilton. 

ALETHOSCOPE:  An instrument for viewing pictures by means of a lens, so as to present them in their natural proportions and relations. 

ALEUROMANCY:  Divination by means of flour. Encyc. Brit. 

ALEUROMETER:  An instrument for determining the expansive properties, or quality, of gluten in flour. Knight. 

ALEURONAT:  Flour made of aleurone, used as a substitute for ordinary flour in preparing bread for diabetic persons. 

ALEURONE:  An albuminoid substance which occurs in minute grains ("protein granules") in maturing seeds and tubers; -- supposed to be a modification of protoplasm. 

ALEURONIC:  Having the nature of aleurone. D. C. Eaton.  ALEUTIAN; ALEUTIC A*leu"tian, A*leu"tic, a. Etym: [Said to be from the Russ. aleut a bold rock.]  Of or pertaining to a chain of islands between Alaska and Kamtchatka; also, designating these islands. 

ALEVIN:  Young fish; fry. 

ALEW:  Halloo. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ALEWIFE:  A woman who keeps an alehouse. Gay. 

ALEWIFE:  A North American fish (Clupea vernalis) of the Herring family. It is called also ellwife, ellwhop, branch herring. The name is locally applied to other related species.  ALEXANDERS; ALISANDERS Al`ex*an"ders, Al`i*san"ders, n. Etym: [OE. alisaundre, OF. alissandere, fr. Alexander or Alexandria.] (Bot)  A name given to two species of the genus Smyrnium, formerly cultivated and used as celery now is; -- called also horse parsely. 

ALEXANDRINE:  Belonging to Alexandria; Alexandrian. Bancroft. 

ALEXANDRINE:  A kind of verse consisting in English of twelve syllables. The needless Alexandrine ends the song, That, like a wounded snake, drags its slow length along. Pope. 

ALEXIA:  Alexipharmic. [Obs.] 

ALEXIPHARMIC:  An antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.  ALEXIPHARMIC; ALEXIPHARMICAL A*lex`i*phar"mic, A*lex`i*phar"mic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. alexipharmaque.] (Med.)  Expelling or counteracting poison; antidotal. 

ALEXIPYRETIC:  Serving to drive off fever; antifebrile.  -- n.  A febrifuge. 

ALEXITERIC:  A preservative against contagious and infectious diseases, and the effects of poison in general. Brande & C.  ALEXITERIC; ALEXITERICAL A*lex`i*ter"ic, A*lex`i*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. alexitère.] (med.)  Resisting poison; obviating the effects of venom; alexipharmic.  ALFA ; ALFA GRASS Al"fa or Al"fa grass", n.  A plant (Macrochloa tenacissima) of North Africa; also, its fiber, used in paper making. 

ALFALFA:  The lucern (Medicago sativa); -- so called in California, Texas, etc. 

ALFENIDE:  An alloy of nickel and silver electroplated with silver. 

ALFERES:  An ensign; a standard bearer. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 

ALFET:  A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plunged his forearm as a test of innocence or guilt. 

ALFILARIA:  The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.  ALFILERIA; ALFILERILLA Al*fil`e*ri"a, Al*fil`e*ril"la, n. [Mex. Sp., fr. Sp. alfiler pin.]  Same as Alfilaria. 

ALFIONE:  An edible marine fish of California (Rhacochilus toxotes). 

ALFORJA:  A saddlebag. [Sp. Amer.] 

ALFRESCO:  In the open-air. Smollett. 

ALGA:  A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plants which includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse, sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervæ, etc. 

ALGAL:  Pertaining to, or like, algæ. 

ALGAROBA:  A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which is a compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony. It was formerly used in medicine as an emetic, purgative, and diaphoretic. 

ALGAROVILLA:  The agglutinated seeds and husks of the legumes of a South American tree (Inga Marthæ). It is valuable for tanning leather, and as a dye.  ALGATE; ALGATES Al"gate, Al"gates, adv. Etym: [All + gate way. The s is an adverbial ending. See Gate.]  1. Always; wholly; everywhere. [Obs.] Ulna now he algates must forego. Spenser.  Note: Still used in the north of England in the sense of "everywhere."  2. By any or means; at all events. [Obs.] Fairfax.  3. Notwithstanding; yet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ALGAZEL:  The true gazelle. 

ALGEBRA:  That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations and properties of quantity by means of letters and other symbols. It is applicable to those relations that are true of every kind of magnitude.  2. A treatise on this science.  ALGEBRAIC; ALGEBRAICAL Al`ge*bra"ic, Al`ge*bra"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to algebra; containing an operation of algebra, or deduced from such operation; as, algebraic characters; algebraical writings. Algebraic curve, a curve such that the equation which expresses the relation between the coördinates of its points involves only the ordinary operations of algebra; -- opposed to a transcendental curve. 

ALGEBRAICALLY:  By algebraic process. 

ALGEBRAIST:  One versed in algebra. 

ALGEBRAIZE:  To perform by algebra; to reduce to algebraic form. 

ALGERIAN:  Of or pertaining to Algeria.  -- n.  A native of Algeria. 

ALGERINE:  Of or pertaining to Algiers or Algeria. 

ALGERINE:  A native or one of the people of Algiers or Algeria. Also, a pirate. 

ALGID:  Cold; chilly. Bailey. Algid cholera (Med.), Asiatic cholera. 

ALGIDITY:  Chilliness; coldness; especially (Med.),  coldness and collapse. 

ALGIDNESS:  Algidity. [Obs.] 

ALGIFIC:  Producing cold. 

ALGIN:  A nitrogenous substance resembling gelatin, obtained from certain algæ. 

ALGOID:  Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga. 

ALGOL:  A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus, remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness. 

ALGOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to algology; as, algological specimens. 

ALGOLOGIST:  One learned about algæ; a student of algology. 

ALGOLOGY:  The study or science of algæ or seaweeds. 

ALGOMETER:  An instrument for measuring sensations of pain due to pressure. It has a piston rod with a blunted tip which is pressed against the skin. -- Al*gom"e*try (#), n. -- Al`go*met"ric (#), *met"ric*al (#), a. --Al`go*met"ric*al*ly, adv. 

ALGONKIAN:  The Algonkian period or era, or system or group of systems. 

ALGONQUIAN:  Pertaining to or designating the most extensive of the linguistic families of North American Indians, their territory formerly including practically all of Canada east of the 115th meridian and south of Hudson's Bay and the part of the United States east of the Mississippi and north of Tennessee and Virginia, with the exception of the territory occupied by the northern Iroquoian tribes. There are nearly 100,000 Indians of the Algonquian tribes, of which the strongest are the Ojibwas (Chippewas), Ottawas, Crees, Algonquins, Micmacs, and Blackfeet. -- n.  An Algonquian Indian.  ALGONQUIN; ALGONKIN Al*gon"quin, Al*gon"kin, n.  One of a widely spread family of Indians, including many distinct tribes, which formerly occupied most of the northern and eastern part of North America. The name was originally applied to a group of Indian tribes north of the River St. Lawrence. 

ALGOR:  Cold; chilliness.  ALGORISM; ALGORITHM Al"go*rism, Al"go*rithm, n. Etym: [OE. algorism, algrim, augrim, OF. algorisme, F. algorithme (cf. Sp. algoritmo, OSp. alguarismo, LL. algorismus), fr. the Ar. al-Khowarezmi of Khowarezm, the modern Khiwa, surname of Abu Ja'far Mohammed ben Musa, author of a work on arithmetic early in the 9th century, which was translated into Latin, such books bearing the name algorismus. The spelling with th is due to a supposed connection with Gr.  1. The art of calculating by nine figures and zero.  2. The art of calculating with any species of notation; as, the algorithms of fractions, proportions, surds, etc. 

ALGOUS:  Of or pertaining to the algæ, or seaweeds; abounding with, or like, seaweed. 

ALGUAZIL:  An inferior officer of justice in Spain; a warrant officer; a constable. Prescott. 

ALGUM:  Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable). 2 Chron. ii. 8. 

ALHAMBRA:  The palace of the Moorish kings at Granada.  ALHAMBRAIC; ALHAMBRESQUE Al`ham*bra"ic, Al`ham*bresque", a.  Made or decorated after the fanciful style of the ornamentation in the Alhambra, which affords an unusually fine exhibition of Saracenic or Arabesque architecture. 

ALHENNA:  See Henna. 

ALIBI:  The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for a crime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place when the alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove an alibi. 

ALIBILITY:  Quality of being alible. 

ALIBLE:  Nutritive; nourishing. 

ALICANT:  A kind of wine, formerly much esteemed; -- said to have been made near Alicant, in Spain. J. Fletcher. 

ALIDADE:  The portion of a graduated instrument, as a quadrant or astrolabe, carrying the sights or telescope, and showing the degrees cut off on the arc of the instrument Whewell. 

ALIEN:  To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property or ownership. [R.] "It the son alien lands." Sir M. Hale. The prince was totally aliened from all thoughts of . . . the marriage. Clarendon. 

ALIENABILITY:  Capability of being alienated. "The alienability of the domain." Burke. 

ALIENABLE:  Capable of being alienated, sold, or transferred to another; as, land is alienable according to the laws of the state. 

ALIENATE:  Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from. O alienate from God. Milton. 

ALIENATE:  A stranger; an alien. [Obs.] 

ALIENATION:  A transfer of title, or a legal conveyance of property to another.  3. A withdrawing or estrangement, as of the affections. The alienation of his heart from the king. Bacon.  4. Mental alienation; derangement of the mental faculties; insanity; as, alienation of mind.  Syn.  -- Insanity; lunacy; madness; derangement; aberration; mania; delirium; frenzy; dementia; monomania. See Insanity. 

ALIENATOR:  One who alienates. 

ALIENE:  To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to aliene an estate. 

ALIENEE:  One to whom the title of property is transferred; -- opposed to alienor. It the alienee enters and keeps possession. Blackstone. 

ALIENIST:  One who treats diseases of the mind. Ed. Rev. 

ALIENOR:  One who alienates or transfers property to another. Blackstone.  ALIETHMOID; ALIETHMOIDAL Al`i*eth"moid, Al`i*eth*moid"al, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E. ethomoid.] (Anat.)  Pertaining to expansions of the ethmoid bone or 

ALIFE:  On my life; dearly. [Obs.] "I love that sport alife." Beau. & Fl. 

ALIFEROUS:  Having wings, winged; aligerous. [R.] 

ALIFORM:  Wing-shaped; winglike. 

ALIGEROUS:  Having wings; winged. [R.] 

ALIGHT:  Lighted; lighted up; in a flame. "The lamps were alight." Dickens. 

ALIGN:  To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring into line; to aline. 

ALIGN:  To form in line; to fall into line. 

ALIGNMENT:  The ground-plan of a railway or other road, in distinction from the grades or profile. 

ALIKE:  Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference. [Now used only predicatively.] The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. Ps. cxxxix. 12. 

ALIKE:  In the same manner, form, or degree; in common; equally; as, we are all alike concerne.  ALIKE-MINDED A*like"-mind`ed, a.  Like-minded. [Obs.] 

ALIMENTAL:  Supplying food; having the quality of nourishing; furnishing the materials for natural growth; as, alimental sap. 

ALIMENTALLY:  So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality. Sir T. Browne. 

ALIMENTARINESS:  The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality. [R.] 

ALIMENTARY:  Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition; nutritious; alimental; as, alimentary substances. Alimentary canal, the entire channel, extending from the mouth to the anus, by which aliments are conveyed through the body, and the useless parts ejected. 

ALIMENTIVENESS:  The instinct or faculty of appetite for food. [Chiefly in Phrenol.] 

ALIMONIOUS:  Affording food; nourishing. [R.] "Alimonious humors." Harvey. 

ALIMONY:  An allowance made to a wife out of her husband's estate or income for her support, upon her divorce or legal separation from him, or during a suit for the same. Wharton. Burrill. 

ALINASAL:  Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage. 

ALINE:  To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align. Evelyn. 

ALINEATION:  See Allineation. 

ALINEMENT:  Same as Alignment.  Note: [The Eng. form alinement is preferable to alignment, a bad spelling of the French]. New Eng. Dict. (Murray). 

ALINER:  One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them into line. Evelyn. 

ALIOTH:  A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl in the Dipper. 

ALIPED:  Wing-footed, as the bat.  -- n.  An animal whose toes are connected by a membrane, serving for a wing, as the bat. 

ALIPHATIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, fat; fatty; -- applied to compounds having an openc-hain structure. The aliphatic compounds thus include not only the fatty acids and other derivatives of the paraffin hydrocarbons, but also unsaturated compounds, as the ethylene and acetylene series. 

ALIQUANT:  An aliquant part of a number or quantity is one which does not divide it without leaving a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquant part of 16. Opposed to aliquot. 

ALIQUOT:  An aliquot part of a number or quantity is one which will divide it without a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquot part of 15. Opposed to aliquant. 

ALISEPTAL:  Relating to expansions of the nasal septum. 

ALISH:  Like ale; as, an alish taste. 

ALISPHENOID:  The alisphenoid bone.  ALISPHENOID; ALISPHENOIDAL Al`i*sphe"noid, Al`i*sphe*noid"al, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E. sphenoid.] (Anat.)  Pertaining to or forming the wing of the sphenoid; relating to a bone in the base of the skull, which in the adult is often consolidated with the sphenoid; as, alisphenoid bone; alisphenoid canal. 

ALITRUNK:  The segment of the body of an insect to which the wings are attached; the thorax. Kirby. 

ALITURGICAL:  Applied to those days when the holy sacrifice is not offered. Shipley. 

ALIUNDE:  From another source; from elsewhere; as, a case proved aliunde; evidence aliunde. 

ALIZARI:  The madder of the Levant. Brande & C. 

ALIZARIN:  A coloring principle, C14H6O2(OH)2, found in madder, and now produced artificially from anthracene. It produces the Turkish reds. 

ALKAHEST:  The fabled "universal solvent" of the alchemists; a menstruum capable of dissolving all bodies.  -- Al`ka*hes"tic, a. 

ALKALAMIDE:  One of a series of compounds that may be regarded as ammonia in which a part of the hydrogen has been replaced by basic, and another part by acid, atoms or radicals.  ALKALESCENCE; ALKALESCENCY Al`ka*les`cence, Al`ka*les"cen*cy, n.  A tendency to become alkaline; or the state of a substance in which alkaline properties begin to be developed, or to predominant. Ure. 

ALKALESCENT:  Tending to the properties of an alkali; slightly alkaline. 

ALKALI:  One of a class of caustic bases, such as soda, potash, ammoma, and lithia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are solubility in alcohol and water, uniting with oils and fats to form soap, neutralizing and forming salts with acids, turning to brown several vegetable yellows, and changing reddened litmus to blue. Fixed alkalies, potash and soda.  -- Vegetable alkalies. Same as Alkaloids.  -- Volatile alkali, ammonia, so called in distinction from the fixed alkalies. 

ALKALIFIABLE:  Capable of being alkalified, or converted into an alkali.  ALKALI FLAT Alkali flat.  A sterile plain, containing an excess of alkali, at the bottom of an undrained basin in an arid region; a playa. 

ALKALIFY:  To convert into an alkali; to give alkaline properties to. 

ALKALIFY:  To become changed into an alkali. 

ALKALIMETER:  An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or the quantity of alkali in a mixture.  ALKALIMETRIC; ALKALIMETRICAL Al`ka*li*met"ric, Al`ka*li*met"ric*al, a.  Of or pertaining to alkalimetry. 

ALKALIMETRY:  The art or process of ascertaining the strength of alkalies, or the quantity present in alkaline mixtures. 

ALKALINE:  Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having the properties of an alkali. Alkaline earths, certain substances, as lime, baryta, strontia, and magnesia, possessing some of the qualities of alkalies.  -- Alkaline metals, potassium, sodium, cæsium, lithium, rubidium.  -- Alkaline reaction, a reaction indicating alkalinity, as by the action on limits, turmeric, etc. 

ALKALINITY:  The quality which constitutes an alkali; alkaline property. Thomson. 

ALKALIOUS:  Alkaline. [Obs.]  ALKALI SOIL Alkali soil.  Any one of various soils found in arid and semiarid regions, containing an unusual amount of soluble mineral salts which effloresce in the form of a powder or crust (usually white) in dry weather following rains or irrigation. The basis of these salts is mainly soda with a smaller amount of potash, and usually a little lime and  magnesia. Two main classes of alkali are commonly distinguished: black alkali, which may be any alkaline carbonate, but which practically consists of sodium carbonate (sal soda), which is highly corrosive and destructive to vegetation; and white alkali, characterized by the presence of sodium sulphate (Glauber's salt), which is less injurious to vegetation. Black alkali is so called because water containing it dissolves humus, forming a dark-colored solution which, when it collects in puddles and evaporates, produces characteristic black spots.  ALKALI WASTE Alkali waste.  Waste material from the manufacture of alkali; specif., soda waste. 

ALKALIZATE:  Alkaline. [Obs.] Boyle. 

ALKALIZATE:  To alkalizate. [R.] Johnson. 

ALKALIZATION:  The act rendering alkaline by impregnating with an alkali; a conferring of alkaline qualities. 

ALKALIZE:  To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkali to. 

ALKALOID:  An organic base, especially one of a class of substances occurring ready formed in the tissues of plants and the bodies of animals.  Note: Alcaloids all contain nitrogen, carbon, and hydrogen, and many of them also contain oxygen. They include many of the active principles in plants; thus, morphine and narcotine are alkaloids found in opium.  ALKALOID; ALKALOIDAL Al"ka*loid, Al`ka*loid"al, a. Etym: [Alkali + -oid: cf. F. alcaloïde.]  Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, alkali. 

ALKANET:  A dyeing matter extracted from the roots of Alkanna tinctoria, which gives a fine deep red color.  2. (Bot.) (a) A boraginaceous herb (Alkanna tinctoria) yielding the dye; orchanet. (b) The similar plant Anchusa officinalis; bugloss; also, the American puccoon. 

ALKARGEN:  Same as Cacodylic acid. 

ALKARSIN:  A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor, and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called also Cadel's fuming liquid. 

ALKAZAR:  See Alcazar. 

ALKEKENGI:  An herbaceous plant of the nightshade family (Physalis alkekengi) and its fruit, which is a well flavored berry, the size of a cherry, loosely inclosed in a enlarged leafy calyx; -- also called winter cherry, ground cherry, and strawberry tomato. D. C. Eaton. 

ALKERMES:  A compound cordial, in the form of a confection, deriving its name from the kermes insect, its principal ingredient. 

ALKORAN:  The Mohammedan Scriptures. Same as Alcoran and Koran. 

ALKORANIC:  Same as Alcoranic. 

ALKORANIST:  Same as Alcoranist. 

ALL:  The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing; everything included or concerned; the aggregate; the whole; totality; everything or every person; as, our all is at stake. Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all. Shak. All that thou seest is mine. Gen. xxxi. 43.  Note: All is used with of, like a partitive; as, all of a thing, all of us. After all, after considering everything to the contrary; nevertheless.  -- All in all, a phrase which signifies all things to a person, or everything desired; (also adverbially) wholly; altogether. Thou shalt be all in all, and I in thee, Forever. Milton. Trust me not at all, or all in all. Tennyson. -- All in the wind (Naut.), a phrase denoting that the sails are parallel with the course of the wind, so as to shake.  -- All told, all counted; in all.  -- And all, and the rest; and everything connected. "Bring our crown and all." Shak.  -- At all. (a) In every respect; wholly; thoroughly. [Obs.] "She is a shrew at al(l)." Chaucer. (b) A phrase much used by way of enforcement or emphasis, usually in negative or interrogative sentences, and signifying in any way or respect; in the least degree or to the least extent; in the least; under any circumstances; as, he has no ambition at all; has he any property at all "Nothing at all. " Shak. "It thy father at all miss me." 1 Sam. xx. 6.  -- Over all, everywhere. [Obs.] Chaucer.  Note: All is much used in composition to enlarge the meaning, or add force to a word. In some instances, it is completely incorporated into words, and its final consonant is dropped, as in almighty, already, always: but, in most instances, it is an adverb prefixed to adjectives or participles, but usually with a hyphen, as, all- bountiful, all-glorious, allimportant, all-surrounding, etc. In others it is an adjective; as, allpower, all-giver. Anciently many words, as, alabout, alaground, etc., were compounded with all, which are now written separately. 

ALL:  Although; albeit. [Obs.] All they were wondrous loth. Spenser.  ALLA BREVE Al`la bre"ve. Etym: [It., according to the breve.] (Old Church Music)  With one breve, or four minims, to measure, and sung faster like four crotchets; in quick common time; -- indicated in the time signature by 

ALLAH:  The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and the Mohammedans generally.  ALL-A-MORT All`-a-mort", a.  See Alamort. 

ALLANITE:  A silicate containing a large amount of cerium. It is usually black in color, opaque, and is related to epidote in form and composition. 

ALLANTOIC:  Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois. Allantoic acid. (Chem.) See Allantoin.  ALLANTOID; ALLANTOIDAL Al*lan"toid, Al`lan*toid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to the allantois. 

ALLANTOIDEA:  The division of Vertebrata in which the embryo develops an allantois. It includes reptiles, birds, and mammals. 

ALLANTOIN:  A crystalline, transparent, colorless substance found in the allantoic liquid of the fetal calf; -- formerly called allantoic acid and amniotic acid.  ALLANTOIS; ALLANTOID Al*lan"to*is, Al*lan"toid, } n.. (Anat.)  A membranous appendage of the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles, -- in mammals serving to connect the fetus with the parent; the urinary vesicle. 

ALLATRATE:  To bark as a dog. [Obs.] Stubbes. 

ALLAY:  To diminish in strength; to abate; to subside. "When the rage allays." Shak. 

ALLAY:  Alleviation; abatement; check. [Obs.] 

ALLAY:  Alloy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ALLAY:  To mix (metals); to mix with a baser metal; to alloy; to deteriorate. [Archaic] Fuller. 

ALLAYER:  One who, or that which, allays. 

ALLAYMENT:  An allaying; that which allays; mitigation. [Obs.] The like allayment could I give my grief. Shak. 

ALLECRET:  A kind of light armor used in the sixteenth century, esp. by the Swiss. Fairholt. 

ALLECT:  To allure; to entice. [Obs.] 

ALLECTATION:  Enticement; allurement. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ALLECTIVE:  Alluring. [Obs.] 

ALLECTIVE:  Allurement. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

ALLEDGE:  See Allege. [Obs.]  Note: This spelling, corresponding to abridge, was once the prevailing one. 

ALLEGATION:  A statement by a party of what he undertakes to prove, -- usually applied to each separate averment; the charge or matter undertaken to be proved. 

ALLEGE:  To alleviate; to lighten, as a burden or a trouble. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

ALLEGEABLE:  Capable of being alleged or affirmed. The most authentic examples allegeable in the case. South. 

ALLEGEANCE:  Allegation. [Obs.] 

ALLEGEMENT:  Allegation. [Obs.] With many complaints and allegements. Bp. Sanderson. 

ALLEGER:  One who affirms or declares. 

ALLEGGE:  See Alegge and Allay. [Obs.]  ALLEGHENIAN; ALLEGHANIAN Al`le*ghe"ni*an, a. Also Al`le*gha"ni*an. (Biogeography)  Pertaining to or designating the humid division of the Transition zone extending across the northern United States from New England to eastern Dakota, and including also most of Pennsylvania and the mountainous region as far south as northern Georgia.  ALLEGHENY; ALLEGHANY Al"le*ghe`ny, a.  1. Of or pertaining to the Allegheny Mountains, or the region where they are situated. Also Al"le*gha`ny.  2.  [From the Allegheny River, Pennsylvania.] (Geol.) Pertaining to or designating a subdivision of the Pennsylvanian coal measure. 

ALLEGIANT:  Loyal. Shak.  ALLEGORIC; ALLEGORICAL Al`le*gor"ic, Al`le*gor"ic*al, a. Etym: [F. allégorique, L. allegorius, fr. Gr. Allegory.]  Belonging to, or consisting of, allegory; of the nature of an allegory; describing by resemblances; figurative. "An allegoric tale." Falconer. "An allegorical application." Pope. Allegorical being . . . that kind of language which says one thing, but means another. Max Miller. Al`le*gor"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Al`le*gor"ic*al*ness, n. 

ALLEGORIST:  One who allegorizes; a writer of allegory. Hume. 

ALLEGORIZATION:  The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in an allegorical sense. 

ALLEGORIZE:  To use allegory. Holland. 

ALLEGORIZER:  One who allegorizes, or turns things into allegory; an allegorist. 

ALLEGORY:  A figure representation which has a meaning beyond notion directly conveyed by the object painted or sculptured.  Syn.  -- Metaphor; fable.  -- Allegory, Parable. "An allegory differs both from fable and parable, in that the properties of persons are fictitiously represented as attached to things, to which they are as it were transferred. . . . A figure of Peace and Victory crowning some historical personage is an allegory. "I am the Vine, ye are the branches" [John xv. 1-6] is a spoken allegory. In the parable there is no transference of properties. The parable of the sower [Matt. xiii. 3-23] represents all things as according to their proper nature. In the allegory quoted above the properties of the vine and the relation of the branches are transferred to the person of Christ and His apostles and disciples." C. J. Smith.  Note: An allegory is a prolonged metaphor. Bunyan's "Pilgrim's Progress" and Spenser's "Faërie Queene" are celebrated examples of the allegory. 

ALLEGRESSE:  Joy; gladsomeness. 

ALLEGRETTO:  Quicker than andante, but not so quick as allegro.  -- n.  A movement in this time. 

ALLEGRO:  Brisk, lively.  -- n.  An allegro movement; a quick, sprightly strain or piece. 

ALLELOMORPH:  One of the pure unit characters commonly existing singly or in pairs in the germ cells of Mendelian hybrids, and exhibited in varying proportion among the organisms themselves. Allelomorphs which under certain circumstances are themselves compound are called hypallelomorphs. See Mendel's law. -- Al*le`lo*mor"phic (#), a.  As we know that the several unit characters are of such a nature that any one of them is capable of independently displacing or being displaced by one or more alternative characters taken singly, we may recognize this fact by naming such characters allelomorphs. Bateson.  ALLELUIA; ALLELUIAH Al`le*lu"ia, Al`le*lu"iah, n. Etym: [L. alleluia, Gr. hall-yah. See Hallelujah.]  An exclamation signifying Praise ye Jehovah. Hence: A song of praise to God. See Hallelujah, the commoner form. I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia. Rev. xix. 1. 

ALLEMANDE:  A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in the reign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, like those of Bach and Handel.  2. A figure in dancing. 

ALLEMANNIC:  See Alemannic. 

ALLENARLY:  Solely; only. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

ALLER:  Same as Alder, of all. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ALLERION:  Am eagle without beak or feet, with expanded wings. Burke. 

ALLEVIATIVE:  Tending to alleviate.  -- n.  That which alleviates. 

ALLEVIATOR:  One who, or that which, alleviaties. 

ALLEVIATORY:  Alleviative. Carlyle. 

ALLEY:  Any passage having the entrance represented as wider than the exit, so as to give the appearance of length.  5. The space between two rows of compositors' stands in a printing office. 

ALLEY:  A choice taw or marble. Dickens. 

ALLEYED:  Furnished with alleys; forming an alley. "An alleyed walk." Sir W. Scott. 

ALLEYWAY:  An alley.  ALL FOOLS' DAY All" Fools' Day`.  The first day of April, a day on which sportive impositions are practiced. The first of April, some do say, Is set apart for All Fools' Day. Poor Robin's Almanack (1760). 

ALLFOURS:  A game at cards, called "High, Low, Jack, and the Game."  ALL FOURS All` fours" Etym: [formerly, All` four".]  All four legs of a quadruped; or the two legs and two arms of a person. To be, go, or run, on all fours (Fig.), to be on the same footing; to correspond (with) exactly; to be alike in all the circumstances to be considered. "This example is on all fours with the other." "No simile can go on all fours." Macaulay.  ALL HAIL All` hail". Etym: [All + hail, interj.]  All health; -- a phrase of salutation or welcome.  ALL-HAIL All`-hail", v. t.  To salute; to greet. [Poet.] Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from the king, who all-hailed me "Thane of Cawdor." Shak. 

ALLHALLOND:  Allhallows. [Obs.] Shak. 

ALLHALLOW:  The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.  ALLHALLOW; ALLHALLOWS All`hal"low, All`hal"lows, n.  1. All the saints (in heaven). [Obs.]  2. All Saints' Day, November 1st. [Archaic]  ALLHALLOW EVE All`hal"low eve` (ev`).  The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween. 

ALLHALLOWMAS:  The feast of All Saints. 

ALLHALLOWN:  Of or pertaining to the time of Allhallows. [Obs.] "Allhallown summer." Shak. (i. e., late summer; "Indian Summer"). 

ALLHALLOWTIDE:  The time at or near All Saints, or November 1st. 

ALLHEAL:  A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to some other plants. 

ALLIABLE:  Able to enter into alliance. 

ALLIACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to the genus Allium, or garlic, onions, leeks, etc.; having the smell or taste of garlic or onions. 

ALLIANCE:  To connect by alliance; to ally. [Obs.] 

ALLIANT:  An ally; a confederate. [Obs. & R.] Sir H. Wotton.  ALLICE; ALLIS Al"lice, Al"lis, n. (Zoöl.)  The European shad (Clupea vulgaris); allice shad. See Alose. 

ALLICIENCY:  Attractive power; attractiveness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ALLICIENT:  That attracts; attracting.  -- n.  That attracts. [Rare or Obs.] 

ALLIED:  United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally. 

ALLIGATE:  To tie; to unite by some tie. Instincts alligated to their nature. Sir M. Hale. 

ALLIGATION:  A rule relating to the solution of questions concerning the compounding or mixing of different ingredients, or ingredients of different qualities or values.  Note: The rule is named from the method of connecting together the terms by certain ligature-like signs. Alligation is of two kinds, medial and alternate; medial teaching the method of finding the price or quality of a mixture of several simple ingredients whose prices and qualities are known; alternate, teaching the amount of each of several simple ingredients whose prices or qualities are known, which will be required to make a mixture of given price or quality. 

ALLIGATOR:  A large carnivorous reptile of the Crocodile family, peculiar to America. It has a shorter and broader snout than the crocodile, and the large teeth of the lower jaw shut into pits in the upper jaw, which has no marginal notches. Besides the common species of the southern United States, there are allied species in South America.  2. (Mech.)  Any machine with strong jaws, one of which opens like the movable jaw of an alligator; as, (a) (Metal Working)  a form of squeezer for the puddle ball; (b) (Mining) a rock breaker; (c) (Printing) a kind of job press, called also alligator press. Alligator apple (Bot.), the fruit of the Anona palustris, a West Indian tree. It is said to be narcotic in its properties. Loudon.  -- Alligator fish (Zoöl.), a marine fish of northwestern America (Podothecus acipenserinus).  -- Alligator gar (Zoöl.), one of the gar pikes (Lepidosteus spatula) found in the southern rivers of the United States. The name is also applied to other species of gar pikes.  -- Alligator pear (Bot.), a corruption of Avocado pear. See Avocado.  -- Alligator snapper, Alligator tortoise, Alligator turtle (Zoöl.), a very large and voracious turtle (Macrochelys lacertina) in habiting the rivers of the southern United States. It sometimes reaches the weight of two hundred pounds. Unlike the common snapping turtle, to which the name is sometimes erroneously applied, it has a scaly head and many small scales beneath the tail. This name is sometimes given to other turtles, as to species of Trionyx.  -- Alligator wood, the timber of a tree of the West Indies (Guarea Swartzii).  ALLIGATOR WRENCH Al"li*ga`tor wrench. (Mech.)  A kind of pipe wrench having a flaring jaw with teeth on one side. 

ALLIGNMENT:  See Alignment. 

ALLINEATE:  To align. [R.] Herschel.  ALLINEATION; ALINEEATION Al*lin`e*a"tion, A*line`e*a"tion, n.  Alignment; position in a straight line, as of two planets with the sun. Whewell. The allineation of the two planets. C. A. Young. 

ALLISION:  The act of dashing against, or striking upon. The boisterous allision of the sea. Woodward. 

ALLITERAL:  Pertaining to, or characterized by alliteration. 

ALLITERATE:  To employ or place so as to make alliteration. Skeat. 

ALLITERATE:  To compose alliteratively; also, to constitute alliteration. 

ALLITERATION:  The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two or more words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals; as in the following lines: - Behemoth, biggest born of earth, upheaved His vastness. Milton. Fly o'er waste fens and windy fields. Tennyson.  Note: The recurrence of the same letter in accented parts of words is also called alliteration. Anglo-Saxon poetry is characterized by alliterative meter of this sort. Later poets also employed it. In a somer seson whan soft was the sonne, I shope me in shroudes as I a shepe were. P. Plowman. 

ALLITERATIVE:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, alliteration; as, alliterative poetry.  -- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ly, adv.  -- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ness, n. 

ALLITERATOR:  One who alliterates. 

ALLIUM:  A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive, etc. 

ALLMOUTH:  The angler. 

ALLNESS:  Totality; completeness. [R.] The allness of God, including his absolute spirituality, supremacy, and eternity. R. Turnbull. 

ALLNIGHT:  Light, fuel, or food for the whole night. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ALLOCATUR:  "Allowed." The word allocatur expresses the allowance of a proceeding, writ, order, etc., by a court, judge, or judicial officer. 

ALLOCHROIC:  Changeable in color. 

ALLOCHROITE:  See Garnet. 

ALLOCHROOUS:  Changing color. 

ALLOD:  See Allodium. 

ALLODIAL:  Pertaining to allodium; freehold; free of rent or service; held independent of a lord paramount; -- opposed to feudal; as, allodial lands; allodial system. Blackstone. 

ALLODIAL:  Anything held allodially. W. Coxe. 

ALLODIALISM:  The allodial system. 

ALLODIALIST:  One who holds allodial land. 

ALLODIALLY:  By allodial tenure. 

ALLODIARY:  One who holds an allodium. 

ALLODIUM:  Freehold estate; land which is the absolute property of the owner; real estate held in absolute independence, without being subject to any rent, service, or acknowledgment to a superior. It is thus opposed to feud. Blackstone. Bouvier. 

ALLOGAMOUS:  Characterized by allogamy. 

ALLOGAMY:  Fertilization of the pistil of a plant by pollen from another of the same species; cross-fertilization. 

ALLOGENEOUS:  Different in nature or kind. [R.] 

ALLOGRAPH:  A writing or signature made by some person other than any of the parties thereto; -- opposed to autograph. 

ALLOMERISM:  Variability in chemical constitution without variation in crystalline form. 

ALLOMEROUS:  Characterized by allomerism. 

ALLOMORPHIC:  Of or pertaining to allomorphism. 

ALLOMORPHISM:  The property which constitutes an allomorph; the change involved in becoming an allomorph. 

ALLONGE:  A thrust or pass; a lunge.  2. A slip of paper attached to a bill of exchange for receiving indorsements, when the back of the bill itself is already full; a rider. [A French usage] Abbott. 

ALLONGE:  To thrust with a sword; to lunge. 

ALLONYMOUS:  Published under the name of some one other than the author. 

ALLOO:  To incite dogs by a call; to halloo. [Obs.] 

ALLOPATH:  An allopathist. Ed. Rev. 

ALLOPATHIC:  Of or pertaining to allopathy. 

ALLOPATHICALLY:  In a manner conformable to allopathy; by allopathic methods. 

ALLOPATHIST:  One who practices allopathy; one who professes allopathy. 

ALLOPATHY:  That system of medical practice which aims to combat disease by the use of remedies which produce effects different from those produced by the special disease treated; -- a term invented by Hahnemann to designate the ordinary practice, as opposed to homeopathy.  ALLOPHYLIC; ALLOPHYLIAN Al`lo*phyl"ic, Al`lo*phyl"i*an, a. Etym: [Gr.  Pertaining to a race or a language neither Aryan nor Semitic. J. Prichard. 

ALLOQUY:  A speaking to another; an address. [Obs.] 

ALLOTHEISM:  The worship of strange gods. Jer. Taylor. 

ALLOTMENT:  The allowance of a specific amount of scrip or of a particular thing to a particular person. Cottage allotment, an allotment of a small portion of land to a country laborer for garden cultivation. [Eng.] 

ALLOTRIOPHAGY:  A depraved appetite; a desire for improper food. 

ALLOTROPHIC:  Of or pertaining to allotropism.  -- Al`lo*trop"ic*al*ly, adv. Allotropic state, the several conditions which occur in a case of allotropism. 

ALLOTROPICITY:  Allotropic property or nature.  ALLOTROPISM; ALLOTROPY Al*lot"ro*pism, Al*lot"ro*py, n. Etym: [Gr. allotropie.] (Chem.)  The property of existing in two or more conditions which are distinct in their physical or chemical relations.  Note: Thus, carbon occurs crystallized in octahedrons and other related forms, in a state of extreme hardness, in the diamond; it occurs in hexagonal forms, and of little hardness, in black lead; and again occurs in a third form, with entire softness, in lampblack and charcoal. In some cases, one of these is peculiarly an active state, and the other a passive one. Thus, ozone is an active state of oxygen, and is distinct from ordinary oxygen, which is the element in its passive state. 

ALLOTROPIZE:  To change in physical properties but not in substance. [R.] 

ALLOTTABLE:  Capable of being allotted. 

ALLOTTEE:  One to whom anything is allotted; one to whom an allotment is made. 

ALLOTTER:  One who allots. 

ALLOTTERY:  Allotment. [Obs.] Shak. 

ALLOW:  To admit; to concede; to make allowance or abatement. Allowing still for the different ways of making it. Addison. To allow of, to permit; to admit. Shak. 

ALLOWABLENESS:  The quality of being allowable; permissibleness; lawfulness; exemption from prohibition or impropriety. South. 

ALLOWABLY:  In an allowable manner. 

ALLOWANCE:  A customary deduction from the gross weight of goods, different in different countries, such as tare and tret. 

ALLOWANCE:  To put upon a fixed allowance (esp. of provisions and drink); to supply in a fixed and limited quantity; as, the captain was obliged to allowance his crew; our provisions were allowanced. 

ALLOWEDLY:  By allowance; admittedly. Shenstone. 

ALLOXAN:  An oxidation product of uric acid. It is of a pale reddish color, readily soluble in water or alcohol. 

ALLOXANATE:  A combination of alloxanic acid and a base or base or positive radical. 

ALLOXANIC:  Of or pertaining to alloxan; -- applied to an acid obtained by the action of soluble alkalies on alloxan. 

ALLOXANTIN:  A substance produced by acting upon uric with warm and very dilute nitric acid. 

ALLOY:  To form a metallic compound. Gold and iron alloy with ease. Ure. 

ALLOYAGE:  The act or art of alloying metals; also, the combination or alloy.  ALLOY STEEL Al"loy steel.  Any steel containing a notable quantity of some other metal alloyed with the iron, usually chromium, nickel, manganese, tungsten, or vanadium.  ALL-POSSESSED All`-pos*sessed", a.  Controlled by an evil spirit or by evil passions; wild. [Colloq.]  ALL SAINTS; ALL SAINTS' All" Saints`, All" Saints',  The first day of November, called, also, Allhallows or Hallowmas; a feast day kept in honor of all the saints; also, the season of this festival.  ALL SOULS' DAY All" Souls' Day`.  The second day of November; a feast day of the Roman Catholic church, on which supplications are made for the souls of the faithful dead. 

ALLSPICE:  The berry of the pimento (Eugenia pimenta), a tree of the West Indies; a spice of a mildly pungent taste, and agreeably aromatic; Jamaica pepper; pimento. It has been supposed to combine the flavor of cinnamon, nutmegs, and cloves; and hence the name. The name is also given to other aromatic shrubs; as, the Carolina allspice (Calycanthus floridus); wild allspice (Lindera benzoin), called also spicebush, spicewood, and feverbush. 

ALLTHING:  Altogether. [Obs.] Shak. 

ALLUDE:  To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to have reference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; -- followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction. These speeches . . . do seem to allude unto such ministerial garments as were then in use. Hooker.  Syn.  -- To refer; point; indicate; hint; suggest; intimate; signify; insinuate; advert. See Refer. 

ALLUDE:  To compare allusively; to refer (something) as applicable. [Obs.] Wither. 

ALLUMETTE:  A match for lighting candles, lamps, etc. 

ALLUMINOR:  An illuminator of manuscripts and books; a limner. [Obs.] Cowell. 

ALLURANCE:  Allurement. [R.] 

ALLURE:  To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by the offer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by something flattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract. With promised joys allured them on. Falconer. The golden sun in splendor likest Heaven Allured his eye. Milton.  Syn.  -- To attract; entice; tempt; decoy; seduce.  -- To Allure, Entice, Decoy, Seduce. These words agree in the idea of acting upon the mind by some strong controlling influence, and differ according to the image under which is presented. They are all used in a bad sense, except allure, which has sometimes (though rarely) a good one. We are allured by the prospect or offer (usually deceptive) of some future good. We are commonly enticed into evil by appeals to our passions. We are decoyed into danger by false appearances or representations. We are seduced when drawn aside from the path of rectitude. What allures draws by gentle means; what entices leads us by promises and persuasions; what decoys betrays us, as it were, into a snare or net; what seduces deceives us by artful appeals to the passions. 

ALLURE:  Allurement. [R.] Hayward. 

ALLURE:  Gait; bearing. The swing, the gait, the pose, the allure of these men. Harper's Mag. 

ALLURER:  One who, or that which, allures. 

ALLURING:  That allures; attracting; charming; tempting.  -- Al*lur"ing*ly, adv.  -- Al*lur"ing*ness, n. 

ALLUSIVELY:  Figuratively [Obs.]; by way of allusion; by implication, suggestion, or insinuation. 

ALLUSIVENESS:  The quality of being allusive. 

ALLUSORY:  Allusive. [R.] Warburton. 

ALLUVIAL:  Pertaining to, contained in, or composed of, alluvium; relating to the deposits made by flowing water; washed away from one place and deposited in another; as, alluvial soil, mud, accumulations, deposits. 

ALLUVION:  An accession of land gradually washed to the shore or bank by the flowing of water. See Accretion. 

ALLUVIOUS:  Alluvial. [R.] Johnson. 

ALLUVIUM:  Deposits of earth, sand, gravel, and other transported matter, made by rivers, floods, or other causes, upon land not permanently submerged beneath the waters of lakes or seas. Lyell. 

ALLWHERE:  Everywhere. [Archaic] 

ALLWORK:  Domestic or other work of all kinds; as, a maid of allwork, that is, a general servant. 

ALLY:  See Alley, a marble or taw. 

ALLYL:  An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlic and mustard. 

ALLYLENE:  A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H4, homologous with acetylene; propine. CH3.C.CH  ALMA; ALMAH Al"ma, Al"mah, n.  Same as Alme. 

ALMAGEST:  The celebrated work of Ptolemy of Alexandria, which contains nearly all that is known of the astronomical observations and theories of the ancients. The name was extended to other similar works. 

ALMAGRA:  A fine, deep red ocher, somewhat purplish, found in Spain. It is the sil atticum of the ancients. Under the name of Indian red it is used for polishing glass and silver.  ALMAIN; ALMAYNE; ALMAN Al"main, Al"mayne, Al"man, n. Etym: [OF. Aleman, F. Allemand, fr. L. Alemanni, ancient Ger. tribes.] [Obs.]  1. A German. Also adj.,  German. Shak.  2. The German language. J. Foxe.  3. A kind of dance. See Allemande. Almain rivets, Almayne rivets, or Alman rivets, a sort of light armor from Germany, characterized by overlapping plates, arranged to slide on rivets, and thus afford great flexibility.  ALMA MATER Al"ma Ma"ter. Etym: [L., fostering mother.]  A college or seminary where one is educated. 

ALMANAC:  A book or table, containing a calendar of days, and months, to which astronomical data and various statistics are often added, such as the times of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, eclipses, hours of full tide, stated festivals of churches, terms of courts, etc. Nautical almanac, an almanac, or year book, containing astronomical calculations (lunar, stellar, etc.), and other information useful to mariners. 

ALMANDINE:  The common red variety of garnet.  ALME; ALMEH Al"me, Al"meh, n. Etym: [Ar. 'almah (fem.) learned, fr. 'alama to know: cf. F. almée.]  An Egyptian dancing girl; an Alma. The Almehs lift their arms in dance. Bayard Taylor. 

ALMENDRON:  The lofty Brazil-nut tree. 

ALMERY:  See Ambry. [Obs.] 

ALMESSE:  See Alms. [Obs.]  ALMIGHTFUL; ALMIGHTIFUL Al*might"ful, Al*might"i*ful, a.  All-powerful; almighty. [Obs.] Udall. 

ALMIGHTILY:  With almighty power. 

ALMIGHTINESS:  Omnipotence; infinite or boundless power; unlimited might. Jer. Taylor. 

ALMNER:  An almoner. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ALMOND:  One of the tonsils. Almond oil, fixed oil expressed from sweet or bitter almonds.  -- Oil of bitter almonds, a poisonous volatile oil obtained from bitter almonds by maceration and distillation; benzoic aldehyde.  -- Imitation oil of bitter almonds, nitrobenzene.  -- Almond tree (Bot.), the tree bearing the almond.  -- Almond willow (Bot.), a willow which has leaves that are of a light green on both sides; almond-leaved willow (Salix amygdalina). Shenstone.  ALMOND FURNACE Al"mond fur`nace. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of Almain furnace, i. e., German furnace. See Almain.]  A kind of furnace used in refining, to separate the metal from cinders and other foreign matter. Chambers. 

ALMONDINE:  See Almandine 

ALMONER:  One who distributes alms, esp. the doles and alms of religious houses, almshouses, etc.; also, one who dispenses alms for another, as the almoner of a prince, bishop, etc. 

ALMONERSHIP:  The office of an almoner. 

ALMONRY:  The place where an almoner resides, or where alms are distributed. 

ALMOSE:  Alms. [Obs.] Cheke. 

ALMOST:  Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part. Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Acts xxvi. 28. Almost never, scarcely ever.  -- Almost nothing, scarcely anything. 

ALMRY:  See Almonry. [Obs.] 

ALMS:  Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money, food, or clothing; a gift of charity. A devout man . . . which gave much alms to the people. Acts x. 2. Alms are but the vehicles of prayer. Dryden. Tenure by free alms. See Frankalmoign. Blackstone.  Note: This word alms is singular in its form (almesse), and is sometimes so used; as, "asked an alms." Acts iii. 3."Received an alms." Shak. It is now, however, commonly a collective or plural noun. It is much used in composition, as almsgiver, almsgiving, alms bag, alms chest, etc. 

ALMSDEED:  An act of charity. Acts ix. 36. 

ALMSFOLK:  Persons supported by alms; almsmen. [Archaic] Holinshed. 

ALMSGIVER:  A giver of alms. 

ALMSGIVING:  The giving of alms. 

ALMSHOUSE:  A house appropriated for the use of the poor; a poorhouse. 

ALMUCANTAR:  A small circle of the sphere parallel to the horizon; a circle or parallel of altitude. Two stars which have the same almucantar have the same altitude. See Almacantar. [Archaic] Almucanter staff, an ancient instrument, having an arc of fifteen degrees, formerly used at sea to take observations of the sun's amplitude at the time of its rising or setting, to find the variation of the compass. 

ALMUCE:  Same as Amice, a hood or cape. 

ALMUDE:  A measure for liquids in several countries. In Portugal the Lisbon almude is about 4.4, and the Oporto almude about 6.6, gallons U. S. measure. In Turkey the "almud" is about 1.4 gallons.  ALMUG; ALGUM Al"mug, Al"gum, n. Etym: [Heb., perh. borrowed fr. Skr. valguka sandalwood.] (Script.)  A tree or wood of the Bible (2 Chron. ii. 8; 1 K. x. 11).  Note: Most writers at the present day follow Celsius, who takes it to be the red sandalwood of China and the Indian Archipelago. W. Smith. 

ALNAGE:  Measurement (of cloth) by the ell; also, a duty for such measurement. 

ALNAGER:  A measure by the ell; formerly a sworn officer in England, whose duty was to inspect act measure woolen cloth, and fix upon it a seal. 

ALOE:  The wood of the agalloch. [Obs.] Wyclif.  2. (Bot.)  A genus of succulent plants, some classed as trees, others as shrubs, but the greater number having the habit and appearance of evergreen herbaceous plants; from some of which are prepared articles for medicine and the arts. They are natives of warm countries.  3. pl. (Med.)  The inspissated juice of several species of aloe, used as a purgative. [Plural in form but syntactically singular.] American aloe, Century aloe, the agave. See Agave.  ALOES WOOD Al"oes wood`.  See Agalloch. 

ALOETIC:  Consisting chiefly of aloes; of the nature of aloes. 

ALOETIC:  A medicine containing chiefly aloes. 

ALOFT:  In the top; at the mast head, or on the higher yards or rigging; overhead; hence (Fig. and Colloq.), in or to heaven. 

ALOFT:  Above; on top of. [Obs.] Fresh waters run aloft the sea. Holland. 

ALOGIAN:  One of an ancient sect who rejected St. John's Gospel and the Apocalypse, which speak of Christ as the Logos. Shipley. 

ALOGY:  Unreasonableness; absurdity. [Obs.] 

ALOIN:  A bitter purgative principle in aloes. 

ALOMANCY:  Divination by means of salt. [Spelt also halomancy.] Morin. 

ALONE:  Solely; simply; exclusively. 

ALONELY:  Only; merely; singly. [Obs.] This said spirit was not given alonely unto him, but unto all his heirs and posterity. Latimer. 

ALONELY:  Exclusive. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

ALONENESS:  A state of being alone, or without company; solitariness. [R.] Bp. Montagu. 

ALONG:  By the length of, as distinguished from across. "Along the lowly lands." Dryden. The kine . . . went along the highway. 1 Sam. vi. 12. 

ALONG:  (Now heard only in the prep. phrase along of.) Along of, Along on, often shortened to Long of, prep. phr., owing to; on account of. [Obs. or Low. Eng.] "On me is not along thin evil fare." Chaucer. "And all this is long of you." Shak. "This increase of price is all along of the foreigners." London Punch. 

ALONGSHORE:  Along the shore or coast. 

ALONGSHOREMAN:  See Longshoreman. 

ALONGSIDE:  Along or by the side; side by side with; -- often with of; as, bring the boat alongside; alongside of him; alongside of the tree. 

ALONGST:  Along. [Obs.] 

ALOOF:  Same as Alewife. 

ALOOF:  Away from; clear from. [Obs.] Rivetus . . . would fain work himself aloof these rocks and quicksands. Milton. 

ALOOFNESS:  State of being aloof. Rogers (1642). The . . . aloofness of his dim forest life. Thoreau.  ALOPECIA; ALOPECY Al`o*pe"ci*a, A*lop"e*cy, n. Etym: [L. alopecia, Gr. (med.)  Loss of the hair; baldness. 

ALOPECIST:  A practitioner who tries to prevent or cure baldness. 

ALOSE:  To praise. [Obs.] 

ALOSE:  The European shad (Clupea alosa); -- called also allice shad or allis shad. The name is sometimes applied to the American shad (Clupea sapidissima). See Shad. 

ALOUATTE:  One of the several species of howling monkeys of South America. See Howler, 2. 

ALOUD:  With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly. Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice. Isa. lviii. 1. 

ALOW:  Below; in a lower part. "Aloft, and then alow." Dryden. 

ALP:  A bullfinch. Rom. of R. 

ALPACA:  An animal of Peru (Lama paco), having long, fine, wooly hair, supposed by some to be a domesticated variety of the llama.  2. Wool of the alpaca.  3. A thin kind of cloth made of the wooly hair of the alpaca, often mixed with silk or with cotton. 

ALPEN:  Of or pertaining to the Alps. [R.] "The Alpen snow." J. Fletcher. 

ALPENGLOW:  A reddish glow seen near sunset or sunrise on the summits of mountains; specif., a reillumination sometimes observed after the summits have passed into shadow, supposed to be due to a curving downward (refraction) of the light rays from the west resulting from the cooling of the air.  ALPENHORN; ALPHORN { Al"pen*horn`, Alp"horn`  }, n. [G. Alpenhorn.]  A curved wooden horn about three feet long, with a cupped mouthpiece and a bell, used by the Swiss to sound the ranz des vaches and other melodies. Its notes are open harmonics of the tube. 

ALPENSTOCK:  A long staff, pointed with iron, used in climbing the Alps. Cheever. 

ALPESTRINE:  Pertaining to the Alps, or other high mountains; as, Alpestrine diseases, etc. 

ALPHA:  The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, and hence used to denote the beginning. In am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Rev. xxii. 13.  Note: Formerly used also denote the chief; as, Plato was the alpha of the wits.  Note: In cataloguing stars, the brightest star of a constellation in designated by Alpha (a); as, a Lyræ. 

ALPHABET:  To designate by the letters of the alphabet; to arrange alphabetically. [R.] 

ALPHABETARIAN:  A learner of the alphabet; an abecedarian. Abp. Sancroft.  ALPHABETIC; ALPHABETICAL Al`pha*bet"ic, Al`pha*bet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alphabétique.]  1. Pertaining to, furnished with, expressed by, or in the order of, the letters of the alphabet; as, alphabetic characters, writing, languages, arrangement.  2. Literal. [Obs.] "Alphabetical servility." Milton. 

ALPHABETICALLY:  In an alphabetic manner; in the customary order of the letters. 

ALPHABETICS:  The science of representing spoken sounds by letters. 

ALPHABETISM:  The expression of spoken sounds by an alphabet. Encyc. Brit. 

ALPHABETIZE:  A sensitized paper for obtaining positives by artificial light. It is coated with gelatin containing silver bromide and chloride. [Eng.]  ALPHA RAYS Alpha rays. (Physics & Chem.)  Rays of relatively low penetrating power emitted by radium and other radioactive substances, and shown to consist of positively charged particles (perhaps particles of helium) having enormous velocities but small masses. They are slightly deflected by a strong magnetic or electric field.  AL-PHITOMANCY Al-phit"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. mancy: cf. F. alphitomancie.]  Divination by means of barley meal. Knowles. 

ALPHOL:  A crystalline derivative of salicylic acid, used as an antiseptic and antirheumatic. 

ALPHONSINE:  Of or relating to Alphonso X., the Wise, King of Castile (1252- 1284). Alphonsine tables, astronomical tables prepared under the patronage of Alphonso the Wise. Whewell. 

ALPIGENE:  Growing in Alpine regions. 

ALPINIST:  A climber of the Alps.  ALPIST; ALPIA Al"pist, Al"pi*a, n. Etym: [F.: cf. Sp. & Pg. alpiste.]  The seed of canary grass (Phalaris Canariensis), used for feeding cage birds. 

ALQUIFOU:  A lead ore found in Cornwall, England, and used by potters to give a green glaze to their wares; potter's ore. 

ALREADY:  Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future; by this time; previously. "Joseph was in Egypt already." Exod. i. 5. I say unto you, that Elias is come already. Matt. xvii. 12.  Note: It has reference to past time, but may be used for a future past; as, when you shall arrive, the business will be already completed, or will have been already completed. 

ALSATIAN:  Pertaining to Alsatia. 

ALSATIAN:  An inhabitant of Alsatia or Alsace in Germany, or of Alsatia or White Friars (a resort of debtors and criminals) in London.  AL SEGNO Al` se"gno. Etym: [It., to the mark or sign.](Mus.)  A direction for the performer to return and recommence from the sign 

ALSIKE:  A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifolium hybridum. 

ALT:  The higher part of the scale. See Alto. To be in alt, to be in an exalted state of mind.  ALTAIAN; ALTAIC Al*ta"ian, Al*ta"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. altaïque.]  Of or pertaining to the Altai, a mountain chain in Central Asia. 

ALTARPIECE:  The painting or piece of sculpture above and behind the altar; reredos. 

ALTARWISE:  In the proper position of an altar, that is, at the east of a church with its ends towards the north and south. Shipley. 

ALTAZIMUTH:  An instrument for taking azimuths and altitudes simultaneously. 

ALTER:  To become, in some respects, different; to vary; to change; as, the weather alters almost daily; rocks or minerals alter by exposure. "The law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not." Dan. vi. 8. 

ALTERABILITY:  The quality of being alterable; alterableness. 

ALTERABLE:  Capable of being altered. Our condition in this world is mutable and uncertain, alterable by a thousand accidents. Rogers. 

ALTERABLENESS:  The quality of being alterable; variableness; alterability. 

ALTERABLY:  In an alterable manner. 

ALTERANT:  Altering; gradually changing. Bacon. 

ALTERANT:  An alterative. [R.] Chambers. 

ALTERATIVE:  Causing ateration. Specifically:  Gradually changing, or tending to change, a morbid state of the functions into one of health. Burton. 

ALTERATIVE:  A medicine or treatment which gradually induces a change, and restores healthy functions without sensible evacuations. 

ALTERCATE:  The contend in words; to dispute with zeal, heat, or anger; to wrangle. 

ALTERCATION:  Warm contention in words; dispute carried on with heat or anger; controversy; wrangle; wordy contest. "Stormy altercations." Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Altercation, Dispute, Wrangle. The term dispute is in most cases, but not necessarily, applied to a verbal contest; as, a dispute on the lawfulness of war. An altercation is an angry dispute between two parties, involving an interchange of severe language. A wrangle is a confused and noisy altercation. Their whole life was little else than a perpetual wrangling and altercation. Hakewill. 

ALTERCATIVE:  Characterized by wrangling; scolding. [R.] Fielding. 

ALTERITY:  The state or quality of being other; a being otherwise. [R.] For outness is but the feeling of otherness (alterity) rendered intuitive, or alterity visually represented. Coleridge. 

ALTERN:  Acting by turns; alternate. Milton. Altern base (Trig.), a second side made base, in distinction from a side previously regarded as base. 

ALTERNACY:  Alternateness; alternation. [R.] Mitford. 

ALTERNANT:  Composed of alternate layers, as some rocks. 

ALTERNAT:  A usage, among diplomats, of rotation in precedence among representatives of equal rank, sometimes determined by lot and at other times in regular order. The practice obtains in the signing of treaties and conventions between nations. 

ALTERNATE:  Distributed, as leaves, singly at different heights of the stem, and at equal intervals as respects angular divergence. Gray. Alternate alligation. See Alligation.  -- Alternate angles (Geom.), the internal and angles made by two lines with a third, on opposite sides of it. It the parallels AB, CD, are cut by the line EF, the angles AGH, GHD, as also the angles BGH and GHC, are called alternate angles.  -- Alternate generation. (Biol.) See under Generation. 

ALTERNATE:  A proportion derived from another proportion by interchanging the means. 

ALTERNATE:  To perform by turns, or in succession; to cause to succeed by turns; to interchange regularly. The most high God, in all things appertaining unto this life, for sundry wise ends alternates the disposition of good and evil. Grew. 

ALTERNATELY:  By alternation; when, in a proportion, the antecedent term is compared with antecedent, and consequent. 

ALTERNATENESS:  The quality of being alternate, or of following by turns.  ALTERNATING CURRENT Al"ter*nat`ing cur"rent. (Elec.)  A current which periodically changes or reverses its direction of flow. 

ALTERNATION:  Permutation.  3. The response of the congregation speaking alternately with the minister. Mason. Alternation of generation. See under Generation. 

ALTERNATIVELY:  In the manner of alternatives, or that admits the choice of one out of two things. 

ALTERNATIVENESS:  The quality of being alternative, or of offering a choice between two. 

ALTERNATOR:  An electric generator or dynamo for producing alternating currents. 

ALTERNITY:  Succession by turns; alternation. [R.] Sir T. Browne.  ALTHAEA; ALTHEA Al*thæ"a, Al*the"a, n. Etym: [althaea, Gr. (Bot.) (a) A genus of plants of the Mallow family. It includes the officinal marsh mallow, and the garden hollyhocks. (b) An ornamental shrub (Hibiscus Syriacus) of the Mallow family. 

ALTHEINE:  Asparagine. 

ALTHING:  The national assembly or parliament of Iceland. See Thing, n., 8. 

ALTHO:  Although. [Reformed spelling] Alt"horn`, n. Etym: [Alt + horn.] (Mus.)  An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively in military music, often replacing the French horn. Grove. 

ALTHORN:  An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively in military music, often replacing the French horn. Grove. 

ALTHOUGH:  Grant all this; be it that; supposing that; notwithstanding; though. Although all shall be offended, yet will no I. Mark xiv. 29.  Syn.  -- Although, Though. Although, which originally was perhaps more emphatic than though, is now interchangeable with it in the sense given above. Euphonic consideration determines the choice. 

ALTILOQUENCE:  Lofty speech; pompous language. [R.] Bailey. 

ALTILOQUENT:  High-sounding; pompous in speech. [R.] Bailey. 

ALTIMETER:  An instrument for taking altitudes, as a quadrant, sextant, etc. Knight. 

ALTIMETRY:  The art of measuring altitudes, or heights. 

ALTINCAR:  See Tincal. 

ALTISCOPE:  An arrangement of lenses and mirrors which enables a person to see an object in spite of intervening objects. 

ALTISONANT:  High-sounding; lofty or pompous. Skelton. 

ALTISONOUS:  Altisonant. 

ALTISSIMO:  The part or notes situated above F in alt. 

ALTITUDE:  The elevation of a point, or star, or other celestial object, above the horizon, measured by the arc of a vertical circle intercepted between such point and the horizon. It is either true or apparent; true when measured from the rational or real horizon, apparent when from the sensible or apparent horizon.  3. (Geom.)  The perpendicular distance from the base of a figure to the summit, or to the side parallel to the base; as, the altitude of a triangle, pyramid, parallelogram, frustum, etc.  4. Height of degree; highest point or degree. He is [proud] even to the altitude of his virtue. Shak.  5. Height of rank or excellence; superiority. Swift.  6. pl.  Elevation of spirits; heroics; haughty airs. [Colloq.] Richardson. The man of law began to get into his altitude. Sir W. Scott. Meridian altitude, an arc of the meridian intercepted between the south point on the horizon and any point on the meridian. See Meridian, 3. 

ALTITUDINAL:  Of or pertaining to height; as, altitudinal measurements. 

ALTITUDINARIAN:  Lofty in doctrine, aims, etc. [R.] Coleridge. 

ALTIVOLANT:  Flying high. [Obs.] Blount. 

ALTO:  Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor, voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices, between in tenor and soprano. In instrumental music it now signifies the tenor.  2. An alto singer. Alto clef (Mus.) the counter-tenor clef, or the C clef, placed so that the two strokes include the middle line of the staff. Moore.  ALTO-CUMULUS Al`to-cu"mu*lus, n. [L. altus high + L. & E. cumulus.] (Meteor.)  A fleecy cloud formation consisting of large whitish or grayish globular cloudlets with shaded  portions, often grouped in flocks or rows. 

ALTOMETER:  A theodolite. Knight.  ALTO-RELIEVO Al"to-re*lie"vo, n.  Alto-rilievo.  ALTO-RILIEVO Al"to-ri*lie*vo, n.; pl. Alto-rilievos. Etym: [It.] (Sculp.)  High relief; sculptured work in which the figures project more than half their thickness; as, this figure is an alto-rilievo or in alto-rilievo.  Note: When the figure stands only half out, it is called mezzo- rilievo, demi-rilievo, or medium relief; when its projection is less than one half, basso-rilievo, bas-relief, or low relief.  ALTO-STRATUS Al`to-stra"tus, n. [L. altus high + L. & E. stratus.] (Meteor.)  A cloud formation similar to cirro-stratus, but heavier and at a lower level. 

ALTRICAL:  Like the articles. 

ALTRICES:  Nursers, -- a term applied to those birds whose young are hatched in a very immature and helpless condition, so as to require the care of their parents for some time; -- opposed to præcoces. 

ALTRUISM:  Regard for others, both natural and moral; devotion to the interests of others; brotherly kindness; -- opposed to egoism or selfishness. [Recent] J. S. Mill. 

ALTRUIST:  One imbued with altruism; -- opposed to egoist. 

ALTRUISTIC:  Regardful of others; beneficent; unselfish; -- opposed to Ant: egoistic or Ant: selfish. Bain.  -- Al`tru*is"tic*al*ly, adv. 

ALUDEL:  One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed as to be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another in succession; -- used in the process of sublimation. Ure. 

ALULA:  A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard. 

ALULAR:  Pertaining to the alula. 

ALUM:  A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element (esp. an alkali metal) or of aluminium. It has twenty-four molecules of water of crystallization.  Note: Common alum is the double sulphate of aluminium and potassium. It is white, transparent, very astringent, and crystallizes easily in octahedrons. The term is extended so as to include other double sulphates similar to alum in formula. 

ALUM:  To steep in, or otherwise impregnate with, a solution of alum; to treat with alum. Ure. 

ALUMEN:  Alum. 

ALUMINA:  One of the earths, consisting of two parts of aluminium and three of oxygen, Al2O3.  Note: It is the oxide of the metal aluminium, the base of aluminous salts, a constituent of a large part of the earthy siliceous minerals, as the feldspars, micas, scapolites, etc., and the characterizing ingredient of common clay, in which it exists as an impure silicate with water, resulting from the decomposition of other aluminous minerals. In its natural state, it is the mineral corundum. 

ALUMINATE:  A compound formed from the hydrate of aluminium by the substitution of a metal for the hydrogen. 

ALUMINATED:  Combined with alumina. 

ALUMINE:  Alumina. Davy. 

ALUMINIC:  Of or containing aluminium; as, aluminic phosphate. 

ALUMINIFEROUS:  Containing alum. 

ALUMINIFORM:  pertaining the form of alumina. 

ALUMINIUM:  The metallic base of alumina. This metal is white, but with a bluish tinge, and is remarkable for its resistance to oxidation, and for its lightness, pertaining a specific gravity of about 2.6. Atomic weight 27.08. Symbol Al. Aluminium bronze or gold, a pale gold- colored alloy of aluminium and copper, used for journal bearings, etc. 

ALUMINIZE:  To treat impregnate with alum; to alum. 

ALUMINOGRAPHY:  Art or process of producing, and printing from, aluminium plates, after the manner of ordinary lithography. -- A*lu`mi*no*graph"ic (#), a. 

ALUMINOUS:  Pertaining to or containing alum, or alumina; as, aluminous minerals, aluminous solution. 

ALUMINUM:  See Aluminium. 

ALUMISH:  Somewhat like alum. 

ALUMNA:  A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college. 

ALUMNUS:  A pupil; especially, a graduate of a college or other seminary of learning.  ALUM ROOT Al"um root`. (Bot.)  A North American herb (Heuchera Americana) of the Saxifrage family, whose root has astringent properties.  ALUM SCHIST; ALUM SHALE Al"um schist", Al"um shale", (Min.)  A variety of shale or clay slate, containing iron pyrites, the decomposition of which leads to the formation of alum, which often effloresces on the rock.  ALUM STONE Al"um stone`. (Min.)  A subsulphate of alumina and potash; alunite. 

ALUNITE:  Alum stone. 

ALUNOGEN:  A white fibrous mineral frequently found on the walls of mines and quarries, chiefly hydrous sulphate of alumina; -- also called feather alum, and hair salt. 

ALURE:  A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds. The sides of every street were covered with fresh alures of marble. T. Warton. 

ALUTATION:  The tanning or dressing of leather. [Obs.] Blount. 

ALVEARY:  The hollow of the external ear. Quincy. 

ALVEATED:  Formed or vaulted like a beehive. 

ALVEOLAR:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells, sacs, or sockets. Alveolar processes, the processes of the maxillary bones, containing the sockets of the teeth. 

ALVEOLARY:  Alveolar. [R.] 

ALVEOLATE:  Deeply pitted, like a honeycomb. 

ALVEOLE:  Same as Alveolus. 

ALVEOLIFORM:  Having the form of alveoli, or little sockets, cells, or cavities. 

ALVEOLUS:  A small cavity in a coral, shell, or fossil  3. (Anat.)  A small depression, sac, or vesicle, as the socket of a tooth, the air cells of the lungs, the ultimate saccules of glands, etc. 

ALVEUS:  The channel of a river. Weate. 

ALVINE:  Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines; as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions. 

ALWAY:  Always. [Archaic or Poetic] I would not live alway. Job vii. 16. 

ALYSSUM:  A genus of cruciferous plants; madwort. The sweet alyssum (A. maritimum), cultivated for bouquets, bears small, white, sweet- scented flowers. 

AM:  The first person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mode, present tense. See Be. God said unto Moses, I am that am. Exod. iii. 14. 

AMABILITY:  Lovableness. Jer. Taylor.  Note: The New English Dictionary (Murray) says this word is "usefully distinct from Amiability." 

AMACRATIC:  Amasthenic. Sir J. Herschel. 

AMADAVAT:  The strawberry finch, a small Indian song bird (Estrelda amandava), commonly caged and kept for fighting. The female is olive brown; the male, in summer, mostly crimson; -- called also red waxbill. [Written also amaduvad and avadavat.] 

AMADOU:  A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletus and Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk. It has been employed as a styptic by surgeons, but its common use is as tinder, for which purpose it is prepared by soaking it in a strong solution of niter. Ure. 

AMAIN:  To lower, as a sail, a yard, etc. 

AMAIN:  To lower the topsail, in token of surrender; to yield. 

AMALGAM:  A native compound of mercury and silver. 

AMALGAM:  To amalgamate. Boyle. B. Jonson. 

AMALGAMA:  Same as Amalgam. They divided this their amalgama into a number of incoherent republics. Burke. 

AMALGAMATE:  Coalesced; united; combined. 

AMALGAMATIVE:  Characterized by amalgamation. 

AMALGAMATOR:  One who, or that which, amalgamates. Specifically: A machine for separating precious metals from earthy particles by bringing them in contact with a body of mercury with which they form an amalgam. 

AMALGAMIZE:  To amalgamate. [R.] 

AMANITA:  A genus of poisonous fungi of the family Agaricaceæ, characterized by having a volva, an annulus, and white spores. The species resemble edible mushrooms, and are frequently mistaken for them. Amanita muscaria, syn. Agaricus muscarius, is the fly amanita, or fly agaric; and A. phalloides is the death cup. 

AMANITINE:  The poisonous principle of some fungi. 

AMANUENSIS:  A person whose employment is to write what another dictates, or to copy what another has written. 

AMARACUS:  A fragrant flower. Tennyson. 

AMARANT:  Amaranth, 1. [Obs.] Milton. 

AMARANTACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the amaranth is the type. 

AMARANTH:  A genus of ornamental annual plants (Amaranthus) of many species, with green, purplish, or crimson flowers.  2. A color inclining to purple. 

AMARANTHINE:  Same as Amaranth. 

AMARINE:  A characteristic crystalline substance, obtained from oil of bitter almonds. 

AMARITUDE:  Bitterness. [R.]  AMARYLLIDACEOUS; AMARYLLIDEOUS Am`a*ryl`li*da"ceous, Am`a*ryl*lid"e*ous, a. (Bot.)  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants differing from the lily family chiefly in having the ovary below the 

AMASS:  To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of; to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass words or phrases. The life Homer has been written by amassing all the traditions and hints the writers could meet with. Pope.  Syn.  -- To accumulate; heap up; pile. 

AMASS:  A mass; a heap. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

AMASSABLE:  Capable of being amassed. 

AMASSER:  One who amasses. 

AMASSETTE:  An instrument of horn used for collecting painters' colors on the stone in the process of grinding. 

AMASSMENT:  An amassing; a heap collected; a large quantity or number brought together; an accumulation. An amassment of imaginary conceptions. Glanvill. 

AMASTHENIC:  Uniting the chemical rays of light into one focus, as a certain kind of lens; amacratic. 

AMATE:  To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt. [Obs. or Archaic] The Silures, to amate the new general, rumored the overthrow greater than was true. Milton. 

AMATE:  To be a mate to; to match. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AMATEUR:  A person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science as to music or painting; esp. one who cultivates any study or art, from taste or attachment, without pursuing it professionally. 

AMATEURISH:  In the style of an amateur; superficial or defective like the work of an amateur.  -- Am`a*teur"ish*ly, adv.  -- Am`a*teur"ish*ness, n. 

AMATEURISM:  The practice, habit, or work of an amateur. 

AMATEURSHIP:  The quality or character of an amateur. 

AMATIVE:  Full of love; amatory. 

AMATIVENESS:  The faculty supposed to influence sexual desire; propensity to love. Combe. 

AMATORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a lover or to love making; amatory; as, amatorial verses. 

AMATORIALLY:  In an amatorial manner. 

AMATORIAN:  Amatory. [R.] Johnson. 

AMATORIOUS:  Amatory. [Obs.] "Amatorious poem." Milton. 

AMATORY:  Pertaining to, producing, or expressing, sexual love; as, amatory potions. 

AMAUROSIS:  A loss or decay of sight, from loss of power in the optic nerve, without any perceptible external change in the eye; -- called also gutta serena, the "drop serene" of Milton. 

AMAUROTIC:  Affected with amaurosis; having the characteristics of amaurosis. 

AMAZE:  To be astounded. [Archaic] B. Taylor. 

AMAZE:  Bewilderment, arising from fear, surprise, or wonder; amazement. [Chiefly poetic] The wild, bewildered Of one to stone converted by amaze. Byron. 

AMAZEDLY:  In amazement; with confusion or astonishment. Shak. 

AMAZEDNESS:  The state of being amazed, or confounded with fear, surprise, or wonder. Bp. Hall. 

AMAZEFUL:  Full of amazement. [R.] 

AMAZING:  Causing amazement; very wonderful; as, amazing grace.  -- A*maz"ing*ly, adv. 

AMAZON:  A name numerous species of South American parrots of the genus Chrysotis Amazon ant (Zoöl.), a species of ant (Polyergus rufescens), of Europe and America. They seize by conquest the larvæ and nymphs other species and make slaves of them in their own nests. 

AMAZONIAN:  A variety of feldspar, having a verdigris-green color.  AMB-; AMBI- Amb-, Am*bi-. Etym: [L. prefix ambi-, amb-, akin to Gr. abhi, AS. embe, emb, OHG. umbi, umpi, G. um, and also L. ambo both. Cf. Amphi-, Both, By.]  A prefix meaning about, around; -- used in words derived from the Latin. 

AMBAGES:  A circuit; a winding. Hence: Circuitous way or proceeding; quibble; circumlocution; indirect mode of speech. After many ambages, perspicuously define what this melancholy is. Burton. 

AMBAGINOUS:  Ambagious. [R.] 

AMBAGIOUS:  Circumlocutory; circuitous. [R.] 

AMBAGITORY:  Ambagious. [R.]  AMBARY; AMBARY HEMP Am*ba"ry, n., or Ambary hemp. [Hind. ambara, ambari.]  A valuable East Indian fiber plant (Hibiscus cannabinus), or its fiber, which is used throughout India for making ropes, cordage, and a coarse canvas and sackcloth; --called also brown Indian hemp.  AMBASSADE; EMBASSADE Am"bas*sade, Em"bas*sade, n. Etym: [F. ambassade. See Embassy.]  1. The mission of an ambassador. [Obs.] Carew.  2. An embassy. [Obs.] Strype.  AMBASSADOR; EMBASSADOR Am*bas"sa*dor, Em*bas"sa*dor, n. Etym: [See Embassador.]  1. A minister of the highest rank sent a foreign court to represent there his sovereign or country.  Note: Ambassador are either ordinary [or resident] or extraordinary, that is, sent upon some special or unusual occasion or errand. Abbott.  2. An official messenger and representative. 

AMBASSADORIAL:  Of or pertaining to an ambassador. H. Walpole. 

AMBASSADORSHIP:  The state, office, or functions of an ambassador. 

AMBASSADRESS:  A female ambassador; also, the wife of an ambassador. Prescott. 

AMBASSAGE:  Same as Embassage. [Obs. or R.] Luke xiv. 32. 

AMBASSY:  See Embassy, the usual spelling. Helps. 

AMBER:  A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as a fossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore in many places. It takes a fine polish, and is used for pipe mouthpieces, beads, etc., and as a basis for a fine varnish. By friction, it becomes strongly electric.  2. Amber color, or anything amber-colored; a clear light yellow; as, the amber of the sky.  3. Ambergris. [Obs.] You that smell of amber at my charge. Beau. & Fl.  4. The balsam, liquidambar. Black amber, and old and popular name for jet. 

AMBER:  A fish of the southern Atlantic coast (Seriola Carolinensis.) 

AMBERGREASE:  See Ambergris. 

AMBERGRIS:  A substance of the consistence of wax, found floating in the Indian Ocean and other parts of the tropics, and also as a morbid secretion in the intestines of the sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus), which is believed to be in all cases its true origin. In color it is white, ash-gray, yellow, or black, and often variegated like marble. The floating masses are sometimes from sixty to two hundred and twenty-five pounds in weight. It is wholly volatilized as a white vapor at 212º Fahrenheit, and is highly valued in perfumery. Dana.  AMBER ROOM Am"ber room  A room formerly in the Czar's Summer Palace in Russia, which was richly decorated with walls and fixtures made from amber.  The amber was removed by occupying German troops during the Second World War and has, as of 1997, never been recovered.  The room is being recreated from old photographs by Russian artisans. PJC  AMBER SEED Am"ber seed`.  Seed of the Hibiscus abelmoschus, somewhat resembling millet, brought from Egypt and the West Indies, and having a flavor like that of musk; musk seed. Chambers.  AMBER TREE Am"ber tree`.  A species of Anthospermum, a shrub with evergreen leaves, which, when bruised, emit a fragrant odor.  AMBES-AS Ambes"-as, n.  Ambs-ace. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AMBIDEXTER:  Using both hands with equal ease. Smollett. 

AMBIDEXTER:  A juror who takes money from both parties for giving his verdict. Cowell. 

AMBIDEXTERITY:  A juror's taking of money from the both parties for a verdict. 

AMBIDEXTRAL:  Pertaining equally to the right-hand side and the left-hand side. Earle. 

AMBIDEXTROUSLY:  In an ambidextrous manner; cunningly. 

AMBIDEXTROUSNESS:  The quality of being ambidextrous; ambidexterity. 

AMBIENT:  Encompassing on all sides; circumfused; investing. "Ambient air." Milton. "Ambient clouds." Pope. 

AMBIENT:  Something that surrounds or invests; as, air . . . being a perpetual ambient. Sir H. Wotton. 

AMBIGENOUS:  Of two kinds. (Bot.)  Partaking of two natures, as the perianth of some endogenous plants, where the outer surface is calycine, and the inner petaloid. 

AMBIGU:  An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at the same time. 

AMBIGUITY:  The quality or state of being ambiguous; doubtfulness or uncertainty, particularly as to the signification of language, arising from its admitting of more than one meaning; an equivocal word or expression. No shadow of ambiguity can rest upon the course to be pursued. I. Taylor. The words are of single signification, without any ambiguity. South. 

AMBIGUOUS:  Doubtful or uncertain, particularly in respect to signification; capable of being understood in either of two or more possible senses; equivocal; as, an ambiguous course; an ambiguous expression. What have been thy answers What but dark, Ambiguous, and with double sense deluding Milton.  Syn.  -- Doubtful; dubious; uncertain; unsettled; indistinct; indeterminate; indefinite. See Equivocal. 

AMBIGUOUSLY:  In an ambiguous manner; with doubtful meaning. 

AMBIGUOUSNESS:  Ambiguity. 

AMBILEVOUS:  Left-handed on both sides; clumsy; -- opposed to ambidexter. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

AMBILOQUY:  Doubtful or ambiguous language. [Obs.] Bailey. 

AMBIPAROUS:  Characterized by containing the rudiments of both flowers and leaves; -- applied to a bud. 

AMBIT:  Circuit or compass. His great parts did not live within a small ambit. Milward. 

AMBITION:  To seek after ambitiously or eagerly; to covet. [R.] Pausanias, ambitioning the sovereignty of Greece, bargains with Xerxes for his daughter in marriage. Trumbull. 

AMBITIONIST:  One excessively ambitious. [R.] 

AMBITIONLESS:  Devoid of ambition. Pollok. 

AMBITIOUSLY:  In an ambitious manner. 

AMBITIOUSNESS:  The quality of being ambitious; ambition; pretentiousness. 

AMBITUS:  A canvassing for votes. 

AMBLER:  A horse or a person that ambles. 

AMBLINGLY:  With an ambling gait. 

AMBLOTIC:  Tending to cause abortion. 

AMBLYGON:  An obtuse-angled figure, esp. and obtuse-angled triangle. [Obs.] 

AMBLYGONAL:  Obtuse-angled. [Obs.] Hutton.  AMBLYOPIA; AMBLYOPY Am`bly*o"pi*a, Am"bly*o`py, n. Etym: [Gr. amblyopie.] (Med.)  Weakness of sight, without and opacity of the cornea, or of the interior of the eye; the first degree of amaurosis. 

AMBLYOPIC:  Of or pertaining to amblyopy. Quain. 

AMBLYPODA:  A group of large, extinct, herbivorous mammals, common in the Tertiary formation of the United States. 

AMBO:  A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christian churches. Gwilt. 

AMBON:  Same as Ambo.  AMBOYNA BUTTON Am*boy"na but"ton. (Med.)  A chronic contagious affection of the skin, prevalent in the tropics.  AMBOYNA PINE Amboyna pine. (Bot.)  The resiniferous tree Agathis Dammara, of the Moluccas.  AMBOYNA WOOD Am*boy"na wood.  A beautiful mottled and curled wood, used in cabinetwork. It is obtained from the Pterocarpus Indicus of Amboyna, Borneo, etc. 

AMBREATE:  A salt formed by the combination of ambreic acid with a base or positive radical. 

AMBREIC:  Of or pertaining to ambrein; -- said of a certain acid produced by digesting ambrein in nitric acid. 

AMBREIN:  A fragrant substance which is the chief constituent of ambergris. 

AMBRITE:  A fossil resin occurring in large masses in New Zealand. 

AMBROSE:  A sweet-scented herb; ambrosia. See Ambrosia, 3. Turner. 

AMBROSIA:  A bark beetle that feeds on ambrosia. 

AMBROSIAC:  Having the qualities of ambrosia; delicious. [R.]"Ambrosiac odors." B. Jonson. 

AMBROSIALLY:  After the manner of ambrosia; delightfully. "Smelt ambrosially." Tennyson. 

AMBROSIAN:  Ambrosial. [R.] . Jonson. 

AMBROSIAN:  Of or pertaining to St. Ambrose; as, the Ambrosian office, or ritual, a formula of worship in the church of Milan, instituted by St. Ambrose. Ambrosian chant, the mode of signing or chanting introduced by St. Ambrose in the 4th century. 

AMBROSIN:  An early coin struck by the dukes of Milan, and bearing the figure of St. Ambrose on horseback. 

AMBROTYPE:  A picture taken on a place of prepared glass, in which the lights are represented in silver, and the shades are produced by a dark background visible through the unsilvered portions of the glass. 

AMBRY:  Double aces, the lowest throw of all at dice. Hence: Bad luck; anything of no account or value. 

AMBULACRAL:  Of or pertaining to ambulacra; avenuelike; as, the ambulacral ossicles, plates, spines, and suckers of echinoderms. 

AMBULACRIFORM:  Having the form of ambulacra. 

AMBULANT:  Walking; moving from place to place. Gayton. 

AMBULATE:  To walk; to move about. [R.] Southey. 

AMBULATION:  The act of walking. Sir T. Browne. 

AMBULATIVE:  Walking. [R.] 

AMBULATORIAL:  Ambulatory; fitted for walking. Verrill. 

AMBULATORY:  Not yet fixed legally, or settled past alteration; alterable; as, the dispositions of a will are ambulatory until the death of the testator. 

AMBULATORY:  A place to walk in, whether in the open air, as the gallery of a cloister, or within a building. 

AMBURRY:  Same as Anbury. 

AMBUSCADE:  The body of troops lying in ambush. 

AMBUSCADE:  To lie in ambush. 

AMBUSCADO:  Ambuscade. [Obs.] Shak. 

AMBUSCADOED:  Posted in ambush; ambuscaded. [Obs.] 

AMBUSH:  To lie in wait, for the purpose of attacking by surprise; to lurk. Nor saw the snake that ambushed for his prey. Trumbull. 

AMBUSHER:  One lying in ambush. 

AMBUSHMENT:  An ambush. [Obs.] 2 Chron. xiii. 13. 

AMBUSTION:  A burn or scald. Blount. 

AMEBEAN:  See Am.  AMEER; AMIR A*meer", A*mir", n. Etym: [See Emir.]  1. Emir. [Obs.]  2. One of the Mohammedan nobility of Afghanistan and Scinde. 

AMEL:  Enamel. [Obs.] Boyle. 

AMEL:  To enamel. [Obs.] Enlightened all with stars, And richly ameled. Chapman. 

AMELCORN:  A variety of wheat from which starch is produced; -- called also French rice. 

AMELIORABLE:  Capable of being ameliorated. 

AMELIORATE:  To make better; to improve; to meliorate. In every human being there is a wish to ameliorate his own condition. Macaulay. 

AMELIORATE:  To grow better; to meliorate; as, wine ameliorates by age. 

AMELIORATION:  The act of ameliorating, or the state of being ameliorated; making or becoming better; improvement; melioration. "Amelioration of human affairs." J. S. Mill. 

AMELIORATIVE:  Tending to ameliorate; producing amelioration or improvement; as, ameliorative remedies, efforts. 

AMELIORATOR:  One who ameliorates. 

AMEN:  An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So be it. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief. When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily. It is used as a noun, to demote: (a) concurrence in belief, or in a statement; assent; (b) the final word or act; (c) Christ as being one who is true and faithful. And let all the people say, Amen. Ps. cvi. 48. Amen, amen, I say to thee, except a man be born again, he can not see the kingdom of God. John ii. 3. Rhemish Trans. To say amen to, to approve warmly; to concur in heartily or emphatically; to ratify; as, I say Amen to all. 

AMEN:  To say Amen to; to sanction fully. 

AMENABILITY:  The quality of being amenable; amenableness. Coleridge. 

AMENABLE:  Easy to be led; governable, as a woman by her husband. [Obs.] Jacob.  2. Liable to be brought to account or punishment; answerable; responsible; accountable; as, amenable to law. Nor is man too diminutive . . . to be amenable to the divine government. I. Taylor.  3. Liable to punishment, a charge, a claim, etc.  4. Willing to yield or submit; responsive; tractable. Sterling . . . always was amenable enough to counsel. Carlyle. 

AMENABLENESS:  The quality or state of being amenable; liability to answer charges; answerableness. 

AMENABLY:  In an amenable manner. 

AMENAGE:  To manage. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AMENANCE:  Behavior; bearing. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AMEND:  To change or modify in any way for the better; as, (a) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous, faulty, and the like; (b) by supplying deficiencies; (c) by substituting something else in the place of what is removed; to rectify. Mar not the thing that can not be amended. Shak. An instant emergency, granting no possibility for revision, or opening for amended thought. De Quincey. We shall cheer her sorrows, and amend her blood, by wedding her to a Norman. Sir W. Scott. To amend a bill, to make some change in the details or provisions of a bill or measure while on its passage, professedly for its improvement.  Syn.  -- To Amend, Emend, Correct, Reform, Rectify. These words agree in the idea of bringing things into a more perfect state. We correct (literally, make straight) when we conform things to some standard or rule; as, to correct proof sheets. We amend by removing blemishes, faults, or errors, and thus rendering a thing more a nearly perfect; as, to amend our ways, to amend a text, the draft of a bill, etc. Emend is only another form of amend, and is applied chiefly to editions of books, etc. To reform is literally to form over again, or put into a new and better form; as, to reform one's life. To rectify is to make right; as, to rectify a mistake, to rectify abuses, inadvertencies, etc. 

AMEND:  To grow better by rectifying something wrong in manners or morals; to improve. "My fortune . . . amends." Sir P. Sidney. 

AMENDABLE:  Capable of being amended; as, an amendable writ or error.  -- A*mend"a*ble*ness, n. 

AMENDATORY:  Supplying amendment; corrective; emendatory. Bancroft. 

AMENDE:  A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation. Amende honorable(#). (Old French Law) A species of infamous punishment in which the offender, being led into court with a rope about his neck, and a lighted torch in his hand, begged pardon of his God, the court, etc. In popular language, the phrase now denotes a public apology or recantation, and reparation to an injured party, for improper language or treatment. 

AMENDER:  One who amends. 

AMENDFUL:  Much improving. [Obs.] 

AMENDMENT:  Correction of an error in a writ or process.  Syn.  -- Improvement; reformation; emendation. 

AMENDS:  Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation. [Now const. with sing. verb.] "An honorable amends." Addison. Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends. Shak. 

AMENITY:  The quality of being pleasant or agreeable, whether in respect to situation, climate, manners, or disposition; pleasantness; civility; suavity; gentleness. A sweetness and amenity of temper. Buckle. This climate has not seduced by its amenities. W. Howitt. 

AMENORRHOEA:  Retention or suppression of the menstrual discharge. 

AMENORRHOEAL:  Pertaining to amenorrhoea.  A MENSA ET THORO A men"sa et tho"ro. Etym: [L., from board and bed.] (Law)  A kind of divorce which does not dissolve the marriage bond, but merely authorizes a separate life of the husband and wife. Abbott. 

AMENT:  A species of inflorescence; a catkin. The globular ament of a buttonwood. Coues. 

AMENTIA:  Imbecility; total want of understanding. 

AMENTIFEROUS:  Bearing catkins. Balfour. 

AMENTIFORM:  Shaped like a catkin. 

AMENTUM:  Same as Ament. 

AMENUSE:  To lessen. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AMERCEABLE:  Liable to be amerced. 

AMERCEMENT:  The infliction of a penalty at the discretion of the court; also, a mulct or penalty thus imposed. It differs from a fine,in that the latter is, or was originally, a fixed and certain sum prescribed by statue for an offense; but an amercement is arbitrary. Hence, the act or practice of affeering. [See Affeer.] Blackstone.  Note: This word, in old books, is written amerciament. Amercement royal, a penalty imposed on an officer for a misdemeanor in his office. Jacobs. 

AMERCER:  One who amerces. 

AMERCIAMENT:  Same as Amercement. Mozley & W. 

AMERICAN:  A native of America; -- originally applied to the aboriginal inhabitants, but now applied to the descendants of Europeans born in America, and especially to the citizens of the United States. The name American must always exalt the pride of patriotism. Washington. 

AMERICANIZATION:  The process of Americanizing. 

AMERICANIZE:  To render American; to assimilate to the Americans in customs, ideas, etc.; to stamp with American characteristics.  AMERICAN PLAN A*mer"i*can plan.  In hotels, aplan upon which guests pay for both room and board by the day, week, or other convenient period; -- contrasted with European plan.  AMERICAN PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION A*mer"i*can Pro*tect"ive As*so`ci*a"tion.  A secret organization in the United States, formed in Iowa in 1887, ostensibly for the protection of American institutions by keeping Roman Catholics out of public office. Abbrev. commonly to A. P .A.  AMES-ACE Ames"-ace, n.  Same as Ambs-ace. 

AMESS:  Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice. 

AMETABOLA:  A group of insects which do not undergo any metamorphosis. [Written also Ametabolia.] 

AMETABOLIAN:  Of or pertaining to insects that do undergo any metamorphosis.  AMETABOLIC; AMETABOLOUS A*met`a*bol"ic, Am`e*tab"o*lous, a. (Zoöl.)  Not undergoing any metamorphosis; as, ametabolic insects. 

AMETHODIST:  One without method; a quack. [Obs.] 

AMETHYST:  A variety of crystallized quartz, of a purple or bluish violet color, of different shades. It is much used as a jeweler's stone. Oriental amethyst, the violet-blue variety of transparent crystallized corundum or sapphire.  2. (Her.)  A purple color in a nobleman's escutcheon, or coat of arms. 

AMETROPIA:  Any abnormal condition of the refracting powers of the eye.  -- Am`e*trop"ic, a. 

AMHARIC:  Of or pertaining to Amhara, a division of Abyssinia; as, the Amharic language is closely allied to the Ethiopic.  -- n.  The Amharic language (now the chief language of Abyssinia). 

AMIA:  A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined to North America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie, and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin. 

AMIABILITY:  The quality of being amiable; amiableness; sweetness of disposition. Every excellency is a degree of amiability. Jer. Taylor. 

AMIABLENESS:  The quality of being amiable; amiability. 

AMIABLY:  In an amiable manner. 

AMIANTH:  See Amianthus. [Poetic] 

AMIANTHIFORM:  Resembling amianthus in form. 

AMIANTHOID:  Resembling amianthus. 

AMIANTHUS:  Earth flax, or mountain flax; a soft silky variety of asbestus. 

AMIC:  Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix; as, amic acid; phosphamic acid. Amic acid (Chem.), one of a class of nitrogenized acids somewhat resembling amides. 

AMICABILITY:  The quality of being amicable; friendliness; amicableness. Ash. 

AMICABLE:  Friendly; proceeding from, or exhibiting, friendliness; after the manner of friends; peaceable; as, an amicable disposition, or arrangement. That which was most remarkable in this contest was . . . the amicable manner in which it was managed. Prideoux. Amicable action (Law.), an action commenced and prosecuted by amicable consent of the parties, for the purpose of obtaining a decision of the court on some matter of law involved in it. Bouvier. Burrill.  -- Amicable numbers (Math.), two numbers, each of which is equal to the sum of all the aliquot parts of the other.  Syn.  -- Friendly; peaceable; kind; harmonious.  -- Amicable, Friendly. Neither of these words denotes any great warmth of affection, since friendly has by no means the same strength as its noun friendship. It does, however, imply something of real cordiality; while amicable supposes very little more than that the parties referred to are not disposed to quarrel. Hence, we speak of amicable relations between two countries, an amicable adjustment of difficulties. "Those who entertain friendly feelings toward each other can live amicably together." 

AMICABLENESS:  The quality of being amicable; amicability. 

AMICABLY:  In an amicable manner. 

AMICE:  A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but now about the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Church while saying Mass. 

AMICE:  A hood, or cape with a hood, made of lined with gray fur, formerly worn by the clergy; -- written also amess, amyss, and almuce. 

AMID:  See Amidst. 

AMIDE:  A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid element or radical. It may also be regarded as ammonia in which one or more hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an acid atom or radical. Acid amide, a neutral compound formed by the substitution of the amido group for hydroxyl in an acid. 

AMIDIN:  Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, like horn. It is soluble in cold water. 

AMIDO:  Containing, or derived from, amidogen. Amido acid, an acid in which a portion of the nonacid hydrogen has been replaced by the amido group. The amido acids are both basic and acid.  -- Amido group, amidogen, NH2. 

AMIDOGEN:  A compound radical, NH2, not yet obtained in a separate state, which may be regarded as ammonia from the molecule of which one of its hydrogen atoms has been removed; -- called also the amido group, and in composition represented by the form amido. 

AMIDOL:  A salt of a diamino phenol, C6H3(OH)(NH2)2, used as a developer. 

AMIDSHIPS:  In the middle of a ship, with regard to her length, and sometimes also her breadth. Totten.  AMIDST; AMID A*midst", A*mid", prep. Etym: [OE. amidde, amiddes, on midden, AS. on middan, in the middle, fr. midde the middle. The s is an adverbial ending, originally marking the genitive; the t is a later addition, as in whilst, amongst, alongst. See Mid.]  In the midst or middle of; surrounded or encompassed by; among. "This fair tree amidst the garden." "Unseen amid the throng." "Amidst thick clouds." Milton. "Amidst acclamations." "Amidst the splendor and festivity of a court." Macaulay. But rather famish them amid their plenty. Shak.  Syn.  -- Amidst, Among. These words differ to some extent from each other, as will be seen from their etymology. Amidst denotes in the midst or middle of, and hence surrounded by; as, this work was written amidst many interruptions. Among denotes a mingling or intermixing with distinct or separable objects; as, "He fell among thieves." "Blessed art thou among women." Hence, we say, among the moderns, among the ancients, among the thickest of trees, among these considerations, among the reasons I have to offer. Amid and amidst are commonly used when the idea of separate or distinguishable objects is not prominent. Hence, we say, they kept on amidst the storm, amidst the gloom, he was sinking amidst the waves, he persevered amidst many difficulties; in none of which cases could among be used. In like manner, Milton speaks of Abdiel, -- The seraph Abdiel, faithful found; Among the faithless faithful only he, because he was then considered as one of the angels. But when the poet adds, -- From amidst them forth he passed, we have rather the idea of the angels as a collective body. Those squalid cabins and uncleared woods amidst which he was born. Macaulay. 

AMIGO:  A friend; -- a Spanish term applied in the Philippine Islands to friendly natives. 

AMINE:  One of a class of strongly basic substances derived from ammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atom or radical. 

AMINOL:  A colorless liquid prepared from herring brine and containing amines, used as a local antiseptic. 

AMIOID:  Like or pertaining to the Amioidei.  -- n.  One of the Amioidei. 

AMIOIDEI:  An order of ganoid fishes of which Amis is type. See Bowfin and Ganoidei. 

AMIR:  Same as Ameer. 

AMISH:  The Amish Mennonites. 

AMISH:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the followers of Jacob Amman, a strict Mennonite of the 17th century, who even proscribed the use of buttons and shaving as "worldly conformity". There are several branches of Amish Mennonites in the United States. 

AMISS:  Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill. What error drives our eyes and ears amiss Shak. Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss. James iv. 3. To take (an act, thing) amiss, to impute a wrong motive to (an act or thing); to take offense at' to take unkindly; as, you must not take these questions amiss. 

AMISS:  Wrong; faulty; out of order; improper; as, it may not be amiss to ask advice.  Note: [Used only in the predicate.] Dryden. His wisdom and virtue can not always rectify that which is amiss in himself or his circumstances. Wollaston. 

AMISS:  A fault, wrong, or mistake. [Obs.] Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss. Shak. 

AMISSIBILITY:  The quality of being amissible; possibility of being lost. [R.] Notions of popular rights and the amissibility of sovereign power for misconduct were alternately broached by the two great religious parties of Europe. Hallam. 

AMISSIBLE:  Liable to be lost. [R.] 

AMISSION:  Deprivation; loss. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

AMIT:  To lose. [Obs.] A lodestone fired doth presently amit its proper virtue. Sir T. Browne. 

AMITOSIS:  Cell division in which there is first a simple cleavage of the nucleus without change in its structure (such as the formation of chromosomes), followed by the division of the cytoplasm; direct cell division; -- opposed to mitosis. It is not the usual mode of division, and is believed by many to occur chiefly in highly specialized cells which are incapable of long-continued multiplication, in transitory structures, and in those in early stages of degeneration. 

AMITOTIC:  Of or pertaining to amitosis; karyostenotic; -- opposed to mitotic. 

AMITY:  Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies, or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty of amity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories. To live on terms of amity with vice. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Harmony; friendliness; friendship; affection; good will; peace. 

AMMA:  An abbes or spiritual mother. 

AMMETER:  A contraction of amperometer or ampèremeter. 

AMMIRAL:  An obsolete form of admiral. "The mast of some great ammiral." Milton. 

AMMITE:  Oölite or roestone; -- written also hammite. [Obs.] 

AMMONAL:  An explosive consisting of a mixture of powdered aluminium and nitrate of ammonium. 

AMMONIA:  A gaseous compound of hydrogen and nitrogen, NH3, with a pungent smell and taste: -- often called volatile alkali, and spirits of hartshorn.  AMMONIAC; AMMONIACAL Am*mo"ni*ac, Am`mo*ni"a*cal, a.  Of or pertaining to ammonia, or possessing its properties; as, an ammoniac salt; ammoniacal gas. Ammoniacal engine, an engine in which the vapor of ammonia is used as the motive force.  -- Sal ammoniac Etym: [L. sal ammoniacus], the salt usually called chloride of ammonium, and formerly muriate of ammonia.  AMMONIAC; GUM AMMONIAC Am*mo"ni*ac ([or] Gum` am*mo"ni*ac , n. Etym: [L. Ammoniacum, Gr. Ammon; cf. F. ammoniac. See Ammonite.] (Med.)  The concrete juice (gum resin) of an umbelliferous plant, the Dorema ammoniacum. It is brought chiefly from Persia in the form of yellowish tears, which occur singly, or are aggregated into masses. It has a peculiar smell, and a nauseous, sweet taste, followed by a bitter one. It is inflammable, partially soluble in water and in spirit of wine, and is used in medicine as an expectorant and resolvent, and for the formation of certain plasters.  AMMONIACAL FERMENTATION Am`mo*ni"a*cal fer`men*ta"tion.  Any fermentation process by which ammonia is formed, as that by which urea is converted into ammonium carbonate when urine is exposed to the air. 

AMMONIATED:  Combined or impregnated with ammonia. 

AMMONIC:  Of or pertaining to ammonia. 

AMMONITE:  A fossil cephalopod shell related to the nautilus. There are many genera and species, and all are extinct, the typical forms having existed only in the Mesozoic age, when they were exceedingly numerous. They differ from the nautili in having the margins of the septa very much lobed or plaited, and the siphuncle dorsal. Also called serpent stone, snake stone, and cornu Ammonis. 

AMMONITIFEROUS:  Containing fossil ammonites. 

AMMONITOIDEA:  An extensive group of fossil cephalopods often very abundant in Mesozoic rocks. See Ammonite. 

AMMONIUM:  A compound radical, NH4, having the chemical relations of a strongly basic element like the alkali metals. 

AMMUNITION:  To provide with ammunition. 

AMNESIA:  Forgetfulness; also, a defect of speech, from cerebral disease, in which the patient substitutes wrong words or names in the place of those he wishes to employ. Quian. 

AMNESIC:  Of or pertaining to amnesia. "Amnesic or coördinate defects." Quian. 

AMNESTIC:  Causing loss of memory. 

AMNESTY:  To grant amnesty to. 

AMNICOLIST:  One who lives near a river. [Obs.] Bailey. 

AMNIGENOUS:  Born or bred in, of, or near a river. [Obs.] Bailey. 

AMNION:  A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles. 

AMNIOS:  Same as Amnion. 

AMNIOTA:  That group of vertebrates which develops in its embryonic life the envelope called the amnion. It comprises the reptiles, the birds, and the mammals. 

AMNIOTIC:  Of or pertaining to the amnion; characterized by an amnion; as, the amniotic fluid; the amniotic sac. Amniotic acid. (Chem.) [R.] See Allantoin. 

AMOEBA:  A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing many changes of form at will. See Rhizopoda. 

AMOEBAEUM:  A poem in which persons are represented at speaking alternately; as the third and seventh eclogues of Virgil. 

AMOEBEA:  That division of the Rhizopoda which includes the amoeba and similar forms. 

AMOEBEAN:  Alternately answering. 

AMOEBIAN:  One of the Amoebea.  AMOEBIFORM; AMOEBOID A*moe"bi*form, A*moe"boid, a. Etym: [Amoeba + -form or -oid.] (Biol.)  Resembling an amoeba; amoeba-shaped; changing in shape like an amoeba. Amoeboid movement, movement produced, as in the amoeba, by successive processes of prolongation and retraction. 

AMOEBOUS:  Like an amoeba in structure. 

AMOLE:  Any detergent plant, or the part of it used as a detergent, as the roots of Agave Americana, Chlorogalum pomeridianum, etc. [Sp. Amer. & Mex.] 

AMOLITION:  Removal; a putting away. [Obs.] Bp. Ward (1673). 

AMOMUM:  A genus of aromatic plants. It includes species which bear cardamoms, and grains of paradise. 

AMONESTE:  To admonish. [Obs.]  AMONG; AMONGST A*mong", A*mongst", prep. Etym: [OE. amongist, amonges, amonge, among, AS. onmang, ongemang, gemang, in a crowd or mixture. For the ending -st see Amidst. See Mingle.]  1. Mixed or mingled; surrounded by. They heard, And from his presence hid themselves among The thickest trees. Milton.  2. Conjoined, or associated with, or making part of the number of; in the number or class of. Blessed art thou among women. Luke i. 28.  3. Expressing a relation of dispersion, distribution, etc.; also, a relation of reciprocal action. What news among the merchants Shak. Human sacrifices were practiced among them. Hume. Divide that gold amongst you. Marlowe. Whether they quarreled among themselves, or with their neighbors. Addison.  Syn.  -- Amidst; between. See Amidst, Between. 

AMONTILLADO:  A dry kind of cherry, of a light color. Simmonds. 

AMORETTE:  An amoret. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

AMORIST:  A lover; a gallant. [R.] Milton. It was the custom for an amorist to impress the name of his mistress in the dust, or upon the damp earth, with letters fixed upon his shoe. Southey.  A-MORNINGS A-morn"ings, adv. Etym: [See Amorwe. The -s is a genitival ending. See -wards.]  In the morning; every morning. [Obs.] And have such pleasant walks into the woods A-mornings. J. Fletcher. 

AMOROSA:  A wanton woman; a courtesan. Sir T. Herbert. 

AMOROSITY:  The quality of being amorous; lovingness. [R.] Galt. 

AMOROSO:  A lover; a man enamored. 

AMOROSO:  In a soft, tender, amatory style. 

AMOROUSLY:  In an amorous manner; fondly. 

AMOROUSNESS:  The quality of being amorous, or inclined to sexual love; lovingness. 

AMORPHA:  A genus of leguminous shrubs, having long clusters of purple flowers; false or bastard indigo. Longfellow. 

AMORPHISM:  A state of being amorphous; esp. a state of being without crystallization even in the minutest particles, as in glass, opal, etc.  Note: There are stony substances which, when fused, may cool as glass or as stone; the glass state is spoken of as a state of amorphism. 

AMORPHOZOA:  Animals without a mouth or regular internal organs, as the sponges. 

AMORPHOZOIC:  Of or pertaining to the Amorphozoa. 

AMORPHY:  Shapelessness. [Obs.] Swift. 

AMORT:  As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed. Shak.  AMORTISE; AMORTISATION; AMORTISABLE; AMORTISEMENT A*mor"tise, v., A*mor`ti*sa"tion, n., A*mor"tis*a*ble, a., A*mor"tise*ment, n.  Same as Amortize, Amortization, etc. 

AMORTIZABLE:  Capable of being cleared off, as a debt. 

AMORTIZATION:  The act or right of alienating lands to a corporation, which was considered formerly as transferring them to dead hands, or in mortmain.  2. The extinction of a debt, usually by means of a sinking fund; also, the money thus paid. Simmonds. 

AMORTIZE:  To alienate in mortmain, that is, to convey to a corporation. See Mortmain.  3. To clear off or extinguish, as a debt, usually by means of a sinking fund. 

AMORTIZEMENT:  Same as Amortization. 

AMOTUS:  Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip does not touch the ground. 

AMOUNT:  To signify; to amount to. [Obs.] 

AMOUR:  Self-love; self-esteem. 

AMOVABILITY:  Liability to be removed or dismissed from office. [R.] T. Jefferson. 

AMOVABLE:  Removable. 

AMOVE:  To dismiss from an office or station. 

AMOVE:  To move or be moved; to excite. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AMPELITE:  An earth abounding in pyrites, used by the ancients to kill insects, etc., on vines; -- applied by Brongniart to a carbonaceous alum schist. 

AMPELOPSIS:  A genus formerly including the Virginia creeper. 

AMPERAGE:  The strength of a current of electricity carried by a conductor or generated by a machine, measured in ampères.  AMPERE; AMPERE Am`père", Am*pere", n. Etym: [From the name of a French electrician.] (Elec.)  The unit of electric current; -- defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893 and by U. S. Statute as, one tenth of the unit of current of the C. G. S. system of electro-magnetic units, or the practical equivalent of the unvarying current which, when passed through a standard solution of nitrate of silver in water, deposits silver at the rate of 0.001118 grams per second. Called also the international ampère.  AMPERE FOOT Am`père" foot. (Elec.)  A unit, employed in calculating fall of pressure in distributing mains, equivalent to a current of one ampère flowing through one foot of conductor.  AMPERE HOUR; AMPERE MINUTE; AMPERE SECOND Ampère hour. (Elec.)  The quantity of electricity delivered in one hour by a current whose average strength is one ampère. It is used as a unit of quantity, and is equal to 3600 coulombs. The terms Ampère minute and Ampère second are sometimes similarly used.  AMPEREMETER; AMPEROMETER Am`père"me`ter, Am`pe*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Ampère + meter.] (Physics)  An instrument for measuring the strength of an electrical current in ampères.  AMPERE TURN Ampère turn. (Elec.)  A unit equal to the product of one complete convolution (of a coiled conductor) into one ampère of current; thus, a conductor having five convolutions and carrying a current of half an ampère is said to have 2½ ampère turns. The magnetizing effect of a coil is proportional to the number of its ampère turns. 

AMPERSAND:  A word used to describe the character Halliwell.  AMPHI- Am*phi-. Etym: [Gr.  A prefix in words of Greek origin, signifying both, of both kinds, on both sides, about, around. 

AMPHIARTHRODIAL:  Characterized by amphiarthrosis. 

AMPHIARTHROSIS:  A form of articulation in which the bones are connected by intervening substance admitting slight motion; symphysis. 

AMPHIASTER:  The achromatic figure, formed in mitotic cell-division, consisting of two asters connected by a spindle-shaped bundle of rodlike fibers diverging from each aster, and called the spindle. 

AMPHIBIA:  One of the classes of vertebrates.  Note: The Amphibia are distinguished by having usually no scales, by having eggs and embryos similar to those of fishes, and by undergoing a complete metamorphosis, the young having gills. There are three living orders: (1) The tailless, as the frogs (Anura); (2) The tailed (Urodela), as the salamanders, and the siren group (Sirenoidea), which retain the gills of the young state (hence called Perennibranchiata) through the adult state, among which are the siren, proteus, etc.; (3) The Coecilians, or serpentlike Amphibia (Ophiomorpha or Gymnophiona), with minute scales and without limbs. The extinct Labyrinthodonts also belonged to this class. The term is sometimes loosely applied to both reptiles and amphibians collectively. 

AMPHIBIAL:  Amphibian. [R.] 

AMPHIBIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Amphibia; as, amphibian reptiles. 

AMPHIBIAN:  One of the Amphibia. 

AMPHIBIOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to amphibiology. 

AMPHIBIOLOGY:  A treatise on amphibious animals; the department of natural history which treats of the Amphibia. 

AMPHIBIOTICA:  A division of insects having aquatic larvæ. 

AMPHIBIOUSLY:  Like an amphibious being. 

AMPHIBIUM:  An amphibian. 

AMPHIBLASTIC:  Segmenting unequally; -- said of telolecithal ova with complete segmentation. 

AMPHIBOLE:  A common mineral embracing many varieties varying in color and in composition. It occurs in monoclinic crystals; also massive, generally with fibrous or columnar structure. The color varies from white to gray, green, brown, and black. It is a silicate of magnesium and calcium, with usually aluminium and iron. Some common varieties are tremolite, actinolite, asbestus, edenite, hornblende (the last name being also used as a general term for the whole species). Amphibole is a constituent of many crystalline rocks, as syenite, diorite, most varieties of trachyte, etc. See Hornblende. 

AMPHIBOLOGICAL:  Of doubtful meaning; ambiguous. "Amphibological expressions." Jer. Taylor.  -- Am*phib`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

AMPHIBOLOGY:  A phrase, discourse, or proposition, susceptible of two interpretations; and hence, of uncertain meaning. It differs from equivocation, which arises from the twofold sense of a single term. 

AMPHIBOLOUS:  Capable of two meanings. An amphibolous sentence is one that is capable of two meanings, not from the double sense of any of the words, but from its admitting of a double construction; e. g., "The duke yet lives that Henry shall depose." Whately. 

AMPHIBOLY:  Ambiguous discourse; amphibology. If it oracle contrary to our interest or humor, we will create an amphiboly, a double meaning where there is none. Whitlock. 

AMPHIBRACH:  A foot of three syllables, the middle one long, the first and last short (as, h. In modern prosody the accented syllable takes the place of the long and the unaccented of the short; as, pro-phet''ic.  AMPHICARPIC; AMPHICARPOUS Am`phi*car"pic, Am`phi*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  Producing fruit of two kinds, either as to form or time of ripening. 

AMPHICHROIC:  Exhibiting or producing two colors, as substances which in the color test may change red litmus to blue and blue litmus to red.  AMPHICOELIAN; AMPHICOELOUS Am`phi*coe"li*an, Am`phi*coe"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)  Having both ends concave; biconcave; -- said of vertebræ. 

AMPHICOME:  A kind of figured stone, rugged and beset with eminences, anciently used in divination. [Obs.] Encyc. Brit. 

AMPHICTYONIC:  Of or pertaining to the Amphictyons or their League or Council; as, an Amphictyonic town or state; the Amphictyonic body. W. Smith. 

AMPHICTYONS:  Deputies from the confederated states of ancient Greece to a congress or council. They considered both political and religious matters. 

AMPHICTYONY:  A league of states of ancient Greece; esp. the celebrated confederation known as the Amphictyonic Council. Its object was to maintain the common interests of Greece. 

AMPHID:  A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and a base, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, or tellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound. [R.] Berzelius. 

AMPHIDISC:  A peculiar small siliceous spicule having a denticulated wheel at each end; -- found in freshwater sponges. 

AMPHIDROMICAL:  Pertaining to an Attic festival at the naming of a child; -- so called because the friends of the parents carried the child around the hearth and then named it. 

AMPHIGAMOUS:  Having a structure entirely cellular, and no distinct sexual organs; -- a term applied by De Candolle to the lowest order of plants. 

AMPHIGEAN:  Extending over all the zones, from the tropics to the polar zones inclusive. 

AMPHIGEN:  An element that in combination produces amphid salt; -- applied by Berzelius to oxygen, sulphur, selenium, and tellurium. [R.] 

AMPHIGENE:  Leucite. 

AMPHIGENESIS:  Sexual generation; amphigony. 

AMPHIGENOUS:  Increasing in size by growth on all sides, as the lichens. 

AMPHIGONIC:  Pertaining to amphigony; sexual; as, amphigonic propagation. [R.] 

AMPHIGONOUS:  Relating to both parents. [R.] 

AMPHIGONY:  Sexual propagation. [R.] 

AMPHIGORIC:  Nonsensical; absurd; pertaining to an amphigory. 

AMPHIGORY:  A nonsense verse; a rigmarole, with apparent meaning, which on further attention proves to be meaningless. [Written also amphigouri.]  AMPHILOGISM; AMPHILOGY Am*phil"o*gism, Am*phil"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]  Ambiguity of speech; equivocation. [R.] 

AMPHIMACER:  A foot of three syllables, the middle one short and the others long, as in cast. Andrews. 

AMPHINEURA:  A division of Mollusca remarkable for the bilateral symmetry of the organs and the arrangement of the nerves. 

AMPHIOXUS:  A fishlike creature (Amphioxus lanceolatus), two or three inches long, found in temperature seas; -- also called the lancelet. Its body is pointed at both ends. It is the lowest and most generalized of the vertebrates, having neither brain, skull, vertebræ, nor red blood. It forms the type of the group Acrania, Leptocardia, etc. 

AMPHIPNEUST:  One of a tribe of Amphibia, which have both lungs and gills at the same time, as the proteus and siren. 

AMPHIPOD:  One of the Amphipoda.  AMPHIPOD; AMPHIPODAN Am"phi*pod, Am*phip"o*dan, a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda. 

AMPHIPODA:  A numerous group of fourteen -- footed Crustacea, inhabiting both fresh and salt water. The body is usually compressed laterally, and the anterior pairs or legs are directed downward and forward, but the posterior legs are usually turned upward and backward. The beach flea is an example. See Tetradecapoda and Arthrostraca. 

AMPHIPODOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda. 

AMPHIPROSTYLE:  Doubly prostyle; having columns at each end, but not at the sides.  -- n.  An amphiprostyle temple or edifice. 

AMPHIRHINA:  A name applied to the elasmobranch fishes, because the nasal sac is double. 

AMPHISBAENA:  A genus of harmless lizards, serpentlike in form, without legs, and with both ends so much alike that they appear to have a head at each, and ability to move either way. See Illustration in Appendix.  Note: The Gordius aquaticus, or hairworm, has been called an amphisbæna; but it belongs among the worms. 

AMPHISBAENOID:  Like or pertaining to the lizards of the genus Amphisbæna.  AMPHISCII; AMPHISCIANS Am*phis"ci*i, Am*phis"cians, n. pl. Etym: [Gr.  The inhabitants of the tropic, whose shadows in one part of the year are cast to the north, and in the other to the south, according as the sun is south or north of their zenith. 

AMPHISTOMOUS:  Having a sucker at each extremity, as certain entozoa, by means of which they adhere. 

AMPHISTYLIC:  Having the mandibular arch articulated with the hyoid arch and the cranium, as in the cestraciont sharks; -- said of a skull.  AMPHITHEATER; AMPHITHEATRE Am`phi*the"a*ter, Am`phi*the"a*tre,, n. Etym: [L. amphitheatrum, fr. Gr. amphithé\'83tre. See Theater.]  1. An oval or circular building with rising tiers of seats about an open space called the arena.  Note: The Romans first constructed amphitheaters for combats of gladiators and wild beasts.  2. Anything resembling an amphitheater in form; as, a level surrounded by rising slopes or hills, or a rising gallery in a theater. 

AMPHITHEATRAL:  Amphitheatrical; resembling an amphitheater.  AMPHITHEATRIC; AMPHITHEATRICAL Am`phi*the*at"ric, Am`phi*the*at"ric*al, a. Etym: [L. amphitheatricus.]  Of, pertaining to, exhibited in, or resembling, an amphitheater. 

AMPHITHEATRICALLY:  In the form or manner of an amphitheater. 

AMPHITROCHA:  A kind of annelid larva having both a dorsal and a ventral circle of special cilia.  AMPHITROPAL; AMPHITROPOUS Am*phit"ro*pal, Am*phit"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  Having the ovule inverted, but with the attachment near the middle of one side; half anatropous. 

AMPHIUMA:  A genus of amphibians, inhabiting the Southern United States, having a serpentlike form, but with four minute limbs and two persistent gill openings; the Congo snake. 

AMPHOPEPTONE:  A product of gastric digestion, a mixture of hemipeptone and antipeptone. 

AMPHORA:  Among the ancients, a two-handled vessel, tapering at the bottom, used for holding wine, oil, etc. 

AMPHORAL:  Pertaining to, or resembling, an amphora. 

AMPHORIC:  Produced by, or indicating, a cavity in the lungs, not filled, and giving a sound like that produced by blowing into an empty decanter; as, amphoric respiration or resonance. 

AMPHOTERIC:  Partly one and partly the other; neither acid nor alkaline; neutral. [R.] Smart. 

AMPLE:  Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious; roomy; widely extended. All the people in that ample house Did to that image bow their humble knees. Spenser.  2. Fully sufficient; abundant; liberal; copious; as, an ample fortune; ample justice.  3. Not contracted of brief; not concise; extended; diffusive; as, an ample narrative. Johnson.  Syn.  -- Full; spacious; extensive; wide; capacious; abundant; plentiful; plenteous; copious; bountiful; rich; liberal; munificent.  -- Ample, Copious, Abundant, Plenteous. These words agree in representing a thing as large, but under different relations, according to the image which is used. Ample implies largeness, producing a sufficiency or fullness of supply for every want; as, ample stores or resources, ample provision. Copious carries with it the idea of flow, or of collection at a single point; as, a copious supply of materials. "Copious matter of my song." Milton. Abundant and plenteous refer to largeness of quantity; as, abundant stores; plenteous harvests. 

AMPLECTANT:  Clasping a support; as, amplectant tendrils. Gray. 

AMPLENESS:  The state or quality of being ample; largeness; fullness; completeness. 

AMPLEXATION:  An embrace. [Obs.] An humble amplexation of those sacred feet. Bp. Hall. 

AMPLEXICAUL:  Clasping or embracing a stem, as the base of some leaves. Gray. 

AMPLIATE:  To enlarge. [R.] To maintain and ampliate the external possessions of your empire. Udall. 

AMPLIATE:  Having the outer edge prominent; said of the wings of insects. 

AMPLIATION:  A postponement of the decision of a cause, for further consideration or re-argument. 

AMPLIATIVE:  Enlarging a conception by adding to that which is already known or received. "All bodies possess power of attraction" is an ampliative judgment; because we can think of bodies without thinking of attraction as one of their immediate primary attribute. Abp. W. Thomson. 

AMPLIFICATE:  To amplify. [Obs.] Bailey. 

AMPLIFICATION:  The enlarging of a simple statement by particularity of description, the use of epithets, etc., for rhetorical effect; diffuse narrative or description, or a dilating upon all the particulars of a subject. Exaggeration is a species of amplification. Brande & C. I shall summarily, without any amplification at all, show in what manner defects have been supplied. Sir J. Davies.  3. The matter by which a statement is amplified; as, the subject was presented without amplifications. 

AMPLIFICATIVE:  Amplificatory. 

AMPLIFICATORY:  Serving to amplify or enlarge; amplificative. Morell. 

AMPLIFIER:  One who or that which amplifies. 

AMPLIFY:  To enlarge by addition or discussion; to treat copiously by adding particulars, illustrations, etc.; to expand; to make much of. Troilus and Cressida was written by a Lombard author, but much amplified by our English translator. Dryden. 

AMPLITUDE:  The horizontal line which measures the distance to which a projectile is thrown; the range.  5. (Physics)  The extent of a movement measured from the starting point or position of equilibrium; -- applied especially to vibratory movements.  6. (math.)  An angle upon which the value of some function depends; -- a term used more especially in connection with elliptic functions. Magnetic amplitude, the angular distance of a heavenly body, when on the horizon, from the magnetic east or west point as indicated by the compass. The difference between the magnetic and the true or astronomical amplitude (see 3 above) is the "variation of the compass." 

AMPLY:  In an ample manner. 

AMPUL:  Same as Ampulla, 2. 

AMPULLA:  A narrow-necked vessel having two handles and bellying out like a jug.  2. (Eccl.) (a) A cruet for the wine and water at Mass. (b) The vase in which the holy oil for chrism, unction, or coronation is kept. Shipley.  3. (Biol.)  Any membranous bag shaped like a leathern bottle, as the dilated end of a vessel or duct; especially the dilations of the semicircular canals of the ear. 

AMPULLACEOUS:  Like a bottle or inflated bladder; bottle-shaped; swelling. Kirby. Ampullaceous sac (Zoöl.), one of the peculiar cavities in the tissues of sponges, containing the zooidal cells.  AMPULLAR; AMPULLARY Am"pul*lar, Am`pul*la*ry, a.  Resembling an ampulla.  AMPULLATE; AMPULLATED Am"pul*late, Am"pul*la`ted a.  Having an ampulla; flask-shaped; bellied. 

AMPULLIFORM:  Flask-shaped; dilated. 

AMPUTATE:  To cut off (a limb or projecting part (of the body). Wiseman. 

AMPUTATION:  The act amputating; esp. the operation of cutting of a limb or projecting part of the body. 

AMPUTATOR:  One who amputates. 

AMPYX:  A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the front hair. 

AMRITA:  Immorality; also, the nectar conferring immortality.  -- a. Ambrosial; immortal.  AMSEL; AMZEL Am"sel, Am"zel, n. Etym: [Ger. See Ousel.] (Zoöl.)  The European ring ousel (Turdus torquatus). 

AMT:  An administrative territorial division in Denmark and Norway.  Each of the provinces [of Denmark] is divided into several amts, answering . . . to the English hundreds. Encyc. Brit. 

AMUCK:  In a frenzied and reckless. To run amuck, to rush out in a state of frenzy, as the Malays sometimes do under the influence of "bhang," and attack every one that comes in the way; to assail recklessly and indiscriminately. Satire's my weapon, but I'm too discreet To run amuck, and tilt at all I meet. Pope. 

AMULET:  An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic, etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms or characters.  Note: [Also used figuratively.] 

AMULETIC:  Of or pertaining to an amulet; operating as a charm. 

AMURCOUS:  Full off dregs; foul. [R.] Knowles. 

AMUSABLE:  Capable of being amused. 

AMUSE:  To muse; to mediate. [Obs.] 

AMUSER:  One who amuses. 

AMUSETTE:  A light field cannon, or stocked gun mounted on a swivel. 

AMUSING:  Giving amusement; diverting; as, an amusing story.  -- A*mus"ing*ly, adv. 

AMUSIVE:  Having power to amuse or entertain the mind; fitted to excite mirth. [R.] -- A*mu"sive*ly, adv.  -- A*mu"sive*ness, n. 

AMVIS:  An explosive consisting of ammonium nitrate, a derivative of nitrobenzene, chlorated napthalene, and wood meal. 

AMY:  A friend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AMYELOUS:  Wanting the spinal cord. 

AMYGDALACEOUS:  Akin to, or derived from, the almond. 

AMYGDALATE:  Pertaining to, resembling, or made of, almonds. 

AMYGDALATE:  An emulsion made of almonds; milk of almonds. Bailey. Coxe.  2. (Chem.)  A salt amygdalic acid. 

AMYGDALIC:  Of or pertaining to almonds; derived from amygdalin; as, amygdalic acid. 

AMYGDALIFEROUS:  Almond-bearing. 

AMYGDALIN:  A glucoside extracted from bitter almonds as a white, crystalline substance. 

AMYGDALINE:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, almonds. 

AMYGDALOID:  A variety of trap or basaltic rock, containing small cavities, occupied, wholly or in part, by nodules or geodes of different minerals, esp. agates, quartz, calcite, and the zeolites. When the imbedded minerals are detached or removed by decomposition, it is porous, like lava.  AMYGDALOID; AMYGDALOIDAL A*myg"da*loid, A*myg`da*loid"al, a.  1. Almond-shaped.  2. Pertaining to, or having the nature of, the rock amygdaloid. 

AMYL:  A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found in amyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc. 

AMYLACEOUS:  Pertaining to starch; of the nature of starch; starchy.  AMYL ALCOHOL Am"yl al"co*hol. (Org. Chem.)  Any of eight isomeric liquid compounds, C5H11OH; ordinarily, a mixture of two of these forming a colorless liquid with a peculiar cough-exciting odor and burning taste, the chief constituent of fusel oil. It is used as a source of amyl compounds, such as amyl acetate, amyl nitrite, etc. 

AMYLATE:  A compound of the radical amyl with oxygen and a positive atom or radical. 

AMYLENE:  One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons, C5H10, of the ethylene series. The colorless, volatile, mobile liquid commonly called amylene is a mixture of different members of the group. 

AMYLIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether. Amylic alcohol (Chem.), one of the series of alcohols, a transparent, colorless liquid, having a peculiar odor. It is the hydroxide of amyl.  -- Amylic fermentation (Chem.), a process of fermentation in starch or sugar in which amylic alcohol is produced. Gregory.  AMYL NITRITE Amyl nitrite.  A yellowish oily volatile liquid, C5H11NO2, used in medicine as a heart stimulant and a vasodilator. The inhalation of its vapor instantly produces flushing of the face. 

AMYLOBACTER:  A microörganism (Bacillus amylobacter) which develops in vegetable tissue during putrefaction. Sternberg. 

AMYLOGEN:  That part of the starch granule or granulose which is soluble in water. 

AMYLOGENESIS:  The formation of starch. 

AMYLOID:  The substance deposited in the organs in amyloid degeneration.  AMYLOID; AMYLOIDAL Am"y*loid, Am`y*loid"al, a. Etym: [L. amylum starch + -oid.]  Resembling or containing amyl; starchlike. Amyloid degeneration (Med.), a diseased condition of various organs of the body, produced by the deposit of an albuminous substance, giving a blue color with iodine and sulphuric acid; -- called also waxy or lardaceous degeneration. 

AMYLOLYSIS:  The conversion of starch into soluble products, as dextrins and sugar, esp. by the action of enzymes. -- Am`y*lo*lyt"ic (#), a. 

AMYLOLYTIC:  Effecting the conversion of starch into soluble dextrin and sugar; as, an amylolytic ferment. Foster. 

AMYLOMETER:  Instrument for determining the amount of starch in a substance. 

AMYLOPLASTIC:  Starch-forming; amylogenic. 

AMYLOPSIN:  The diastase of the pancreatic juice. 

AMYLOSE:  One of the starch group (C6H10O5)n of the carbohydrates; as, starch, arabin, dextrin, cellulose, etc. 

AMYOUS:  Wanting in muscle; without flesh. 

AMYSS:  Same as Amice, a hood or cape. 

AN:  This word is properly an adjective, but is commonly called the indefinite article. It is used before nouns of the singular number only, and signifies one, or any, but somewhat less emphatically. In such expressions as "twice an hour," "once an age," a shilling an ounce (see 2d A, 2), it has a distributive force, and is equivalent to each, every.  Note: An is used before a word beginning with a vowel sound; as, an enemy, an hour. It in also often used before h sounded, when the accent of the word falls on the second syllable; as, an historian, an hyena, an heroic deed. Many writers use a before h in such positions. Anciently an was used before consonants as well as vowels. 

AN:  If; -- a word used by old English authors. Shak. Nay, an thou dalliest, then I am thy foe. B. Jonson. An if, and if; if.  ANA- An"a-. Etym: [/Gr. in comp., on, up, upwards.]  A prefix in words from the Greek, denoting up, upward, throughout, backward, back, again, anew. 

ANA:  Of each; an equal quantity; as, wine and honey, ana (or, contracted, aa), ., that is, of wine and honey, each, two ounces. An apothecary with a . . . long bill of anas. Dryden. 

ANA:  A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote a collection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus, Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsoniana of Johnson, etc.  Note: Used also as a substantive; as, the French anas. It has been said that the table-talk of Selden is worth all the ana of the Continent. Hallam.  -ANA -a"na. [The neut. pl. ending of Latin adjectives in -anus.]  A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote a collection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus, Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsoniana of Johnson, etc.  Used also as a substantive; as, the French anas.  It has been said that the table-talk of Selden is worth all the ana of the Continent. Hallam. 

ANABAPTISM:  The doctrine of the Anabaptists. 

ANABAPTIST:  A name sometimes applied to a member of any sect holding that rebaptism is necessary for those baptized in infancy.  Note: In church history, the name Anabaptists usually designates a sect of fanatics who greatly disturbed the peace of Germany, the Netherlands, etc., in the Reformation period. In more modern times the name has been applied to those who do not regard infant baptism as real and valid baptism.  ANABAPTISTIC; ANABAPTISTICAL An`a*bap*tis"tic, An`a*bap*tis"tic*al, a.  Relating or attributed to the Anabaptists, or their doctrines. Milton. Bp. Bull. 

ANABAPTISTRY:  The doctrine, system, or practice, of Anabaptists. [R.] Thus died this imaginary king; and Anabaptistry was suppressed in Munster. Pagitt. 

ANABAPTIZE:  To rebaptize; to rechristen; also, to rename. [R.] Whitlock. 

ANABAS:  A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living long out of water, and of making their way on land for considerable distances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes. 

ANABASIS:  The first period, or increase, of a disease; augmentation. [Obs.] 

ANABATIC:  Pertaining to anabasis; as, an anabatic fever. [Obs.] 

ANABOLIC:  Pertaining to anabolism; an anabolic changes, or processes, more or less constructive in their nature. 

ANABOLISM:  The constructive metabolism of the body, as distinguished from katabolism. 

ANABRANCH:  A branch of a river that reënters, or anastomoses with, the main stream; also, less properly, a branch which loses itself in sandy soil. [Australia]  Such branches of a river as after separation reunite, I would term anastomosing branches; or, if a word might be coined, anabranches, and the islands they form branch islands. Col. Jackson. 

ANACAMPTIC:  Reflecting of reflected; as, an anacamptic sound (and echo).  Note: The word was formerly applied to that part of optics which treats of reflection; the same as what is now called catoptric. See Catoptrics. 

ANACAMPTICALLY:  By reflection; as, echoes are sound produced anacamptically. Hutton. 

ANACAMPTICS:  A group of teleostean fishes destitute of spiny fin-rays, as the cod. 

ANACANTHOUS:  Spineless, as certain fishes. 

ANACARDIACEOUS:  Belonging to, or resembling, a family, or order, of plants of which the cashew tree is the type, and the species of sumac are well known examples. 

ANACARDIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the cashew nut; as, anacardic acid. 

ANACARDIUM:  A genus of plants including the cashew tree. See Cashew. 

ANACATHARTIC:  Producing vomiting or expectoration.  -- n.  An anacatharic medicine; an expectorant or an emetic. 

ANACHARIS:  A fresh-water weed of the frog's-bit family (Hydrocharidaceæ), native to America. Transferred to England it became an obstruction to navigation. Called also waterweed and water thyme.  ANACHORET; ANACHORETICAL An*ach"o*ret, n. An*ach`o*ret"ic*al, a.  See Anchoret, Anchoretic. [Obs.] 

ANACHORISM:  An error in regard to the place of an event or a thing; a referring something to a wrong place. [R.]  ANACHRONIC; ANACHRONICAL An`a*chron"ic, An`a*chron"ic*al, a.  Characterized by, or involving, anachronism; anachronistic. 

ANACHRONISM:  A misplacing or error in the order of time; an error in chronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each other, esp. one by which an event is placed too early; falsification of chronological relation. 

ANACHRONISTIC:  Erroneous in date; containing an anachronism. T. Warton. 

ANACHRONIZE:  To refer to, or put into, a wrong time. [R.] Lowell. 

ANACHRONOUS:  Containing an anachronism; anachronistic.  -- An*ach"ro*nous*ly, adv. 

ANACLASTIC:  Produced by the refraction of light, as seen through water; as, anaclastic curves.  2. Springing back, as the bottom of an anaclastic glass. Anaclastic glass, a glass or phial, shaped like an inverted funnel, and with a very thin convex bottom. By sucking out a little air, the bottom springs into a concave form with a smart crack; and by breathing or blowing gently into the orifice, the bottom, with a like noise, springs into its former convex form. 

ANACLASTICS:  That part of optics which treats of the refraction of light; -- commonly called dioptrics. Encyc. Brit. 

ANACOENOSIS:  A figure by which a speaker appeals to his hearers or opponents for their opinion on the point in debate. Walker. 

ANACOLUTHIC:  Lacking grammatical sequence.  -- An`a*co*lu"thic*al*ly, adv. 

ANACOLUTHON:  A want of grammatical sequence or coherence in a sentence; an instance of a change of construction in a sentence so that the latter part does not syntactically correspond with the first part. 

ANACONDA:  A large South American snake of the Boa family (Eunectes murinus), which lives near rivers, and preys on birds and small mammals. The name is also applied to a similar large serpent (Python tigris) of Ceylon. 

ANACREONTIC:  Pertaining to, after the manner of, or in the meter of, the Greek poet Anacreon; amatory and convivial. De Quincey. 

ANACREONTIC:  A poem after the manner of Anacreon; a sprightly little poem in praise of love and wine. 

ANACROTIC:  Pertaining to anachronism. 

ANACROTISM:  A secondary notch in the pulse curve, obtained in a sphygmographic tracing. 

ANACRUSIS:  A prefix of one or two unaccented syllables to a verse properly beginning with an accented syllable. 

ANADEM:  A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath. Drayton. Tennyson. 

ANADIPLOSIS:  A repetition of the last word or any prominent word in a sentence or clause, at the beginning of the next, with an adjunct idea; as, "He retained his virtues amidst all his misfortunes -- misfortunes which no prudence could foresee or prevent." 

ANADROM:  A fish that leaves the sea and ascends rivers. 

ANADROMOUS:  Ascending rivers from the sea, at certain seasons, for breeding, as the salmon, shad, etc.  2. (Bot.)  Tending upwards; -- said of terns in which the lowest secondary segments are on the upper side of the branch of the central stem. D. C. Eaton. 

ANAEMIA:  A morbid condition in which the blood is deficient in quality or in quantity. 

ANAEMIC:  Of or pertaining to anæmia.  ANAEROBIA; ANAEROBES An*a`ër*o"bi*a, An*a"ër*obes, n. pl. [NL. anaerobia; an-not + aëro- + Gr. life.] (Bacteriol.)  Anaërobic bacteria. They are called facultative anaërobia when able to live either in the presence or absence of free oxygen; obligate, or obligatory, anaërobia when they thrive only in its absence. 

ANAEROBIC:  Relating to, or like, anaërobies; araërobiotic. 

ANAEROBIES:  Microörganisms which do not require oxygen, but are killed by it. Sternberg. 

ANAEROBIOTIC:  Related to, or of the nature of, anaërobies. 

ANAESTHESIA:  Entire or partial loss or absence of feeling or sensation; a state of general or local insensibility produced by disease or by the inhalation or application of an anæsthetic. 

ANAESTHESIS:  See Anæsthesia. 

ANAESTHETIC:  That which produces insensibility to pain, as chloroform, ether, etc. 

ANAESTHETIZATION:  The process of anæsthetizing; also, the condition of the nervous system induced by anæsthetics. 

ANAESTHETIZE:  To render insensible by an anæsthetic. Encyc. Brit. 

ANAGLYPH:  Any sculptured, chased, or embossed ornament worked in low relief, as a cameo. 

ANAGLYPHIC:  Work chased or embossed relief.  ANAGLYPHIC; ANAGLYPHICAL An`a*glyph"ic, An`a*glyph"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to the art of chasing or embossing in relief; anaglyptic; -- opposed to diaglyptic or sunk work. 

ANAGLYPTIC:  Relating to the art of carving, enchasing, or embossing in low relief. 

ANAGLYPTICS:  The art of carving in low relief, embossing, etc. 

ANAGLYPTOGRAPH:  An instrument by which a correct engraving of any embossed object, such as a medal or cameo, can be executed. Brande & C. 

ANAGLYPTOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to anaglyptography; as, analyptographic engraving. 

ANAGLYPTOGRAPHY:  The art of copying works in relief, or of engraving as to give the subject an embossed or raised appearance; -- used in representing coins, bas-reliefs, etc. 

ANAGNORISIS:  The unfolding or dénouement. [R.] De Quincey. 

ANAGOGE:  Mystical; having a secondary spiritual meaning; as, the rest of the Sabbath, in an anagogical sense, signifies the repose of the saints in heaven; an anagogical explication.  -- An`a*gog"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ANAGOGICS:  Mystical interpretations or studies, esp. of the Scriptures. L. Addison. 

ANAGOGY:  Same as Anagoge. 

ANAGRAM:  Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in its usual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another by the transposition of its letters. Thus Galenus becomes angelus; William Noy (attorney-general to Charles I., and a laborious man) may be turned into I moyl in law. 

ANAGRAM:  To anagrammatize. Some of these anagramed his name, Benlowes, into Benevolus. Warburton.  ANAGRAMMATIC; ANAGRAMMATICAL An`a*gram*mat"ic, An`a*gram*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. anagramtique.]  Pertaining to, containing, or making, anagram.  -- An`a*gram*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ANAGRAMMATISM:  The act or practice of making anagrams. Camden. 

ANAGRAMMATIST:  A maker anagrams. 

ANAGRAMMATIZE:  To transpose, as the letters of a word, so as to form an anagram. Cudworth. 

ANAGRAPH:  An inventory; a record. [Obs.] Knowles.  ANAKIM; ANAKS An"a*kim, A"naks, n. pl. Etym: [Heb.] (Bibl.)  A race of giants living in Palestine. 

ANAL:  Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin or glands. 

ANALCIME:  A white or flesh-red mineral, of the zeolite, occurring in isometric crystals. By friction, it acquires a weak electricity; hence its name. 

ANALCITE:  Analcime. 

ANALECTIC:  Relating to analects; made up of selections; as, an analectic magazine.  ANALECTS; ANALECTA An"a*lects, An`a*lec"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Gr.  A collection of literary fragments. 

ANALEMMA:  An orthographic projection of the sphere on the plane of the meridian, the eye being supposed at an infinite distance, and in the east or west point of the horizon.  2. An instrument of wood or brass, on which this projection of the sphere is made, having a movable horizon or cursor; -- formerly much used in solving some common astronomical problems.  3. A scale of the sun's declination for each day of the year, drawn across the torrid zone on an artificial terrestrial globe.  ANALEPSIS; ANALEPSY An"a*lep"sis, An"a*lep"sy, Etym: [Gr. Analemma.] (Med.) (a) Recovery of strength after sickness. (b) A species of epileptic attack, originating from gastric disorder. 

ANALEPTIC:  Restorative; giving strength after disease.  -- n.  A restorative.  ANALGEN; ANALGENE An*al"gen, An*al"gene, n. [Gr.  painless.]  A crystalline compound used as an antipyretic and analgesic, employed chiefly in rheumatism and neuralgia. It is a complex derivative of quinoline. 

ANALGESIA:  Absence of sensibility to pain. Quain. 

ANALLAGMATIC:  Not changed in form by inversion. Anallagmatic curves, a class of curves of the fourth degree which have certain peculiar relations to circles; -- sometimes called bicircular quartics.  -- Anallagmatic surfaces, a certain class of surfaces of the fourth degree. 

ANALLANTOIC:  Without, or not developing, an allantois. 

ANALLANTOIDEA:  The division of Vertebrata in which no allantois is developed. It includes amphibians, fishes, and lower forms. 

ANALOGAL:  Analogous. [Obs.] Donne. 

ANALOGIC:  Of or belonging to analogy. Geo. Eliot. 

ANALOGICALLY:  In an analogical sense; in accordance with analogy; by way of similitude. A prince is analogically styled a pilot, being to the state as a pilot is to the vessel. Berkeley. 

ANALOGICALNESS:  Quality of being analogical. 

ANALOGISM:  an argument from the cause to the effect; an a priori argument. Johnson.  2. Investigation of things by the analogy they bear to each other. Crabb. 

ANALOGIST:  One who reasons from analogy, or represent, by analogy. Cheyne. 

ANALOGIZE:  To employ, or reason by, analogy. 

ANALOGON:  Analogue. 

ANALOGOUS:  Having analogy; corresponding to something else; bearing some resemblance or proportion; -- often followed by to. Analogous tendencies in arts and manners. De Quincey. Decay of public spirit, which may be considered analogous to natural death. J. H. Newman. nalogous pole (Pyroelect.), that pole of a crystal which becomes positively electrified when heated.  Syn.  -- Correspondent; similar; like.  -- A*nal"o gous*ly, adv.  -- A*nal"o*gous*ness, n. 

ANALOGUE:  A word in one language corresponding with one in another; an analogous term; as, the Latin "pater" is the analogue of the English "father."  3. (Nat. Hist.) (a) An organ which is equivalent in its functions to a different organ in another species or group, or even in the same group; as, the gill of a fish is the analogue of a lung in a quadruped, although the two are not of like structural relations. (b) A species in one genus or group having its characters parallel, one by one, with those of another group. (c) A species or genus in one country closely related to a species of the same genus, or a genus of the same group, in another: such species are often called representative species, and such genera, representative genera. Dana. 

ANALOGY:  A relation or correspondence in function, between organs or parts which are decidedly different.  3. (Geom.)  Proportion; equality of ratios.  4. (Gram.)  Conformity of words to the genius, structure, or general rules of a language; similarity of origin, inflection, or principle of pronunciation, and the like, as opposed to pl. analogies. Johnson.  ANALYSE; ANALYSER An"a*lyse, v., An"a*ly`ser, n., etc.  Same as Analyze, Analyzer, etc. 

ANALYSIS:  The separation of a compound substance, by chemical processes, into its constituents, with a view to ascertain either (a) what elements it contains, or (b) how much of each element is present. The former is called qualitative, and the latter quantitative analysis.  3. (Logic)  The tracing of things to their source, and the resolving of knowledge into its original principles.  4. (Math.)  The resolving of problems by reducing the conditions that are in them to equations.  5. (a) A syllabus, or table of the principal heads of a discourse, disposed in their natural order. (b) A brief, methodical illustration of the principles of a science. In this sense it is nearly synonymous with synopsis.  6. (Nat. Hist.)  The process of ascertaining the name of a species, or its place in a system of classification, by means of an analytical table or key. Ultimate, Proximate, Qualitative, Quantitative, and Volumetric analysis. (Chem.) See under Ultimate, Proximate, Qualitative, etc. 

ANALYST:  One who analyzes; formerly, one skilled in algebraical geometry; now commonly, one skilled in chemical analysis.  ANALYTIC; ANALYTICAL An`a*lyt"ic, An`a*lyt"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. analytique. See Analysis.]  Of or pertaining to analysis; resolving into elements or constituent parts; as, an analytical experiment; analytic reasoning; -- opposed to synthetic. Analytical or coördinate geometry. See under Geometry.  -- Analytic language, a noninflectional language or one not characterized by grammatical endings.  -- Analytical table (Nat. Hist.), a table in which the characteristics of the species or other groups are arranged so as to facilitate the determination of their names. 

ANALYTICALLY:  In an analytical manner. 

ANALYTICS:  The science of analysis. 

ANALYZABLE:  That may be analyzed. 

ANALYZATION:  The act of analyzing, or separating into constituent parts; analysis. 

ANALYZE:  To subject to analysis; to resolve (anything complex) into its elements; to separate into the constituent parts, for the purpose of an examination of each separately; to examine in such a manner as to ascertain the elements or nature of the thing examined; as, to analyze a fossil substance; to analyze a sentence or a word; to analyze an action to ascertain its morality. No one, I presume, can analyze the sensations of pleasure or pain. Darwin. 

ANALYZER:  The part of a polariscope which receives the light after polarization, and exhibits its properties. 

ANAMESE:  Of or pertaining to Anam, to southeastern Asia.  -- n.  A native of Anam. 

ANAMNESIS:  A recalling to mind; recollection. 

ANAMNESTIC:  Aiding the memory; as, anamnestic remedies. 

ANAMNIOTIC:  Without, or not developing, an amnion. 

ANAMORPHISM:  A gradual progression from one type to another, generally ascending. Huxley. 

ANAMORPHOSCOPE:  An instrument for restoring a picture or image distorted by anamorphosis to its normal proportions. It usually consists of a cylindrical mirror. 

ANAMORPHOSIS:  A distorted or monstrous projection or representation of an image on a plane or curved surface, which, when viewed from a certain point, or as reflected from a curved mirror or through a polyhedron, appears regular and in proportion; a deformation of an image.  2. (Biol.)  Same as Anamorphism, 2.  3. (Bot.)  A morbid or monstrous development, or change of form, or degeneration. 

ANAMORPHOSY:  Same as Anamorphosis. 

ANAN:  An expression equivalent to What did you say Sir Eh [Obs.] Shak. 

ANANAS:  The pineapple (Ananassa sativa). 

ANANDROUS:  Destitute of stamen 

ANANGULAR:  Containing no angle. [R.] 

ANANTHEROUS:  Destitute of anthers. Gray. 

ANANTHOUS:  Destitute of flowers; flowerless.  ANAPAEST; ANAPAESTIC An`a*pæst, An`a*pæs"tic.  Same as Anapest, Anapestic. 

ANAPEST:  A metrical foot consisting of three syllables, the first two short, or unaccented, the last long, or accented; the reverse of the dactyl. In Latin d, and in English in-ter-vene, are examples of anapests.  2. A verse composed of such feet. 

ANAPESTIC:  Pertaining to an anapest; consisting of an anapests; as, an anapestic meter, foot, verse.  -- n.  Anapestic measure or verse. 

ANAPESTICAL:  Anapestic. 

ANAPHORA:  A repetition of a word or of words at the beginning of two or more successive clauses. 

ANAPHRODISIA:  Absence of sexual appetite. 

ANAPHRODISIAC:  Same as Antaphrodisiac. Dunglison. 

ANAPHRODITIC:  Produced without concourse of sexes. 

ANAPLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to anaplasty. 

ANAPLASTY:  The art of operation of restoring lost parts or the normal shape by the use of healthy tissue. 

ANAPLEROTIC:  Filling up; promoting granulation of wounds or ulcers.  -- n.  A remedy which promotes such granulation. 

ANAPNOGRAPH:  A form of spirometer. 

ANAPNOIC:  Relating to respiration. 

ANAPODEICTIC:  Not apodeictic; undemonstrable. [R.] 

ANAPOPHYSIS:  An accessory process in many lumbar vertebræ. 

ANAPTOTIC:  Having lost, or tending to lose, inflections by phonetic decay; as, anaptotic languages. 

ANAPTYCHUS:  One of a pair of shelly plates found in some cephalopods, as the ammonites. 

ANARCH:  The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt. Milton. Imperial anarchs doubling human woes. Byron. 

ANARCHAL:  Lawless; anarchical. [R.] We are in the habit of calling those bodies of men anarchal which are in a state of effervescence. Landor.  ANARCHIC; ANARCHICAL A*nar"chic, A*nar"chic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. anarchique.]  Pertaining to anarchy; without rule or government; in political confusion; tending to produce anarchy; as, anarchic despotism; anarchical opinions. 

ANARCHISM:  The doctrine or practice of anarchists. 

ANARCHIST:  An anarch; one who advocates anarchy of aims at the overthrow of civil government. 

ANARCHIZE:  To reduce to anarchy. 

ANARTHROPODA:  One of the divisions of Articulata in which there are no jointed legs, as the annelids; -- opposed to Arthropoda. 

ANARTHROPODOUS:  Having no jointed legs; pertaining to Anarthropoda. 

ANARTHROUS:  Used without the article; as, an anarthrous substantive.  2. (Zoöl.)  Without joints, or having the joints indistinct, as some insects. 

ANAS:  A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certain species of fresh-water ducks. 

ANASARCA:  Dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue; an effusion of serum into the cellular substance, occasioning a soft, pale, inelastic swelling of the skin. 

ANASARCOUS:  Belonging, or affected by, anasarca, or dropsy; dropsical. Wiseman. 

ANASEISMIC:  Moving up and down; -- said of earthquake shocks. 

ANASTALTIC:  Styptic. [Obs.] Coxe. 

ANASTATE:  One of a series of substances formed, in secreting cells, by constructive or anabolic processes, in the production of protoplasm; -- opposed to katastate. Foster. 

ANASTATIC:  Pertaining to a process or a style of printing from characters in relief on zinc plates.  Note: In this process the letterpress, engraving, or design of any kind is transferred to a zinc plate; the parts not covered with ink are eaten out, leaving a facsimile in relief to be printed from. 

ANASTIGMATIC:  Not astigmatic; --said esp. of a lens system which consists of a converging lens and a diverging lens of equal and opposite astigmatism but different focal lengths, and sensibly free from astigmatism. 

ANASTOMOSE:  To inosculate; to intercommunicate by anastomosis, as the arteries and veins. The ribbing of the leaf, and the anastomosing network of its vessels. I. Taylor. 

ANASTOMOSIS:  The inosculation of vessels, or intercommunication between two or more vessels or nerves, as the cross communication between arteries or veins. 

ANASTOMOTIC:  Of or pertaining to anastomosis. 

ANASTROPHE:  An inversion of the natural order of words; as, echoed the hills, for, the hills echoed. 

ANATHEMA:  Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an anathema.  -- A*nath`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ANATHEMATISM:  Anathematization. [Obs.] We find a law of Justinian forbidding anathematisms to be pronounced against the Jewish Hellenists. J. Taylor. 

ANATHEMATIZATION:  The act of anathematizing, or denouncing as accursed; imprecation. Barrow. 

ANATHEMATIZE:  To pronounce an anathema against; to curse. Hence: To condemn publicly as something accursed. Milton. 

ANATHEMATIZER:  One who pronounces an anathema. Hammond. 

ANATIFA:  An animal of the barnacle tribe, of the genus Lepas, having a fleshy stem or peduncle; a goose barnacle. See Cirripedia.  Note: The term Anatifæ, in the plural, is often used for the whole group of pedunculated cirripeds. 

ANATIFER:  Same as Anatifa. 

ANATIFEROUS:  Producing ducks; -- applied to Anatifæ, under the absurd notion of their turning into ducks or geese. See Barnacle. 

ANATINE:  Of or pertaining to the ducks; ducklike. 

ANATOCISM:  Compound interest. [R.] Bouvier.  ANATOMIC; ANATOMICAL An`a*tom"ic, An`a*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. anatomicus, Gr. anatomique. See Anatomy.]  Of or relating to anatomy or dissection; as, the anatomic art; anatomical observations. Hume. 

ANATOMICALLY:  In an anatomical manner; by means of dissection. 

ANATOMIST:  One who is skilled in the art of anatomy, or dissection. 

ANATOMIZATION:  The act of anatomizing. 

ANATOMIZER:  A dissector. 

ANATREPTIC:  Overthrowing; defeating; -- applied to Plato's refutative dialogues. Enfield. 

ANATRON:  Having the ovule inverted at an early period in its development, so that the chalaza is as the apparent apex; -- opposed to orthotropous. Gray. 

ANATTO:  Same as Annotto.  ANBURY; AMBURY An"bur*y, Am"bur*y, n. Etym: [AS. ampre, ompre, a crooked swelling vein: cf. Prov. E. amper a tumor with inflammation. Cf. the first syllable in agnail, and berry a fruit.]  1. (Far.)  A soft tumor or bloody wart on horses or oxen.  2. A disease of the roots of turnips, etc.; -- called also fingers and toes. 

ANCE:  A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as, assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.  Note: All recently adopted words of this class take either -ance or - ence, according to the Latin spelling.  -ANCE -ance. [F. -ance, fr. L. -antia and also fr. -entia.]  A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as, assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.   All recently adopted words of this class take either -ance or -ence, according to the Latin spelling. 

ANCESTOR:  An earlier type; a progenitor; as, this fossil animal is regarded as the ancestor of the horse.  3. (Law)  One from whom an estate has descended; -- the correlative of heir. 

ANCESTORIAL:  Ancestral. Grote. 

ANCESTORIALLY:  With regard to ancestors. 

ANCESTRAL:  Of, pertaining to, derived from, or possessed by, an ancestor or ancestors; as, an ancestral estate. "Ancestral trees." Hemans. 

ANCESTRESS:  A female ancestor. 

ANCHOR:  An emblem of hope.  5. (Arch.) (a) A metal tie holding adjoining parts of a building together. (b) Carved work, somewhat resembling an anchor or arrowhead; -- a part of the ornaments of certain moldings. It is seen in the echinus, or egg-and-anchor (called also egg-and-dart, egg-and-tongue) ornament.  6. (Zoöl.)  One of the anchor-shaped spicules of certain sponges; also, one of the calcareous spinules of certain Holothurians, as in species of Synapta. Anchor ice. See under Ice.  -- Anchor ring. (Math.) Same as Annulus, 2 (b).  -- Anchor stock (Naut.), the crossbar at the top of the shank at right angles to the arms.  -- The anchor comes home, when it drags over the bottom as the ship drifts.  -- Foul anchor, the anchor when it hooks, or is entangled with, another anchor, or with a cable or wreck, or when the slack cable entangled.  -- The anchor is acockbill, when it is suspended perpendicularly from the cathead, ready to be let go.  -- The anchor is apeak, when the cable is drawn in do tight as to bring to ship directly over it.  -- The anchor is atrip, or aweigh, when it is lifted out of the ground.  -- The anchor is awash, when it is hove up to the surface of the water.  -- At anchor, anchored.  -- To back an anchor, to increase the holding power by laying down a small anchor ahead of that by which the ship rides, with the cable fastened to the crown of the latter to prevent its coming home.  -- To cast anchor, to drop or let go an anchor to keep a ship at rest.  -- To cat the anchor, to hoist the anchor to the cathead and pass the ring-stopper.  -- To fish the anchor, to hoist the flukes to their resting place (called the bill-boards), and pass the shank painter.  -- To weigh anchor, to heave or raise the anchor so as to sail away. 

ANCHOR:  An anchoret. [Obs.] Shak. 

ANCHORABLE:  Fit for anchorage. 

ANCHORAGE:  Abode of an anchoret. 

ANCHORATE:  Anchor-shaped. 

ANCHORED:  Having the extremities turned back, like the flukes of an anchor; as, an anchored cross. [Sometimes spelt ancred.]  ANCHOR ESCAPEMENT An"chor es*cape"ment. (Horol.)  (a) The common recoil escapement.  (b) A variety of the lever escapement with a wide impulse pin. 

ANCHORESS:  A female anchoret. And there, a saintly anchoress, she dwelt. Wordsworth.  ANCHORET; ANCHORITE An"cho*ret, An"cho*rite, n. Etym: [F. anachorète, L. anachoreta, fr. Gr. ha to leave. Cf. Anchor a hermit.]  One who renounces the world and secludes himself, usually for religious reasons; a hermit; a recluse. [Written by some authors anachoret.] Our Savior himself . . . did not choose an anchorite's or a monastic life, but a social and affable way of conversing with mortals. Boyle.  ANCHORETIC; ANCHORETICAL An`cho*ret"ic, An`cho*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.  Pertaining to an anchoret or hermit; after the manner of an anchoret. 

ANCHORETISH:  Hermitlike. 

ANCHORETISM:  The practice or mode of life of an anchoret.  ANCHOR-HOLD An"chor-hold`, n.  1. The hold or grip of an anchor, or that to which it holds.  2. Hence: Firm hold: security. 

ANCHORITE:  Same as Anchoret. 

ANCHORITESS:  An anchoress. [R.] 

ANCHORLESS:  Without an anchor or stay. Hence: Drifting; unsettled.  ANCHOR LIGHT Anchor light. (Naut.)  The lantern shown at night by a vessel at anchor. International rules of the road require vessels at anchor to carry from sunset to sunrise a single white light forward if under 150 feet in length, and if longer, two such lights, one near the stern and one forward.  ANCHOR SHOT Anchor shot. (Billiards)  A shot made with the object balls in an anchor space.  ANCHOR SPACE Anchor space. (Billiards)  In the balk-line game, any of eight spaces, 7 inches by 3½, lying along a cushion and bisected transversely by a balk line. Object balls in an anchor space are treated as in balk.  ANCHOR WATCH Anchor watch. (Naut.)  A detail of one or more men who keep watch on deck at night when a vessel is at anchor. 

ANCHOVY:  A small fish, about three inches in length, of the Herring family (Engraulis encrasicholus), caught in vast numbers in the Mediterranean, and pickled for exportation. The name is also applied to several allied species.  ANCHOVY PEAR An*cho"vy pear`. (Bot.)  A West Indian fruit like the mango in taste, sometimes pickled; also, the tree (Grias cauliflora) bearing this fruit. 

ANCHUSIN:  A resinoid coloring matter obtained from alkanet root. 

ANCHYLOSE:  To affect or be affected with anchylosis; to unite or consolidate so as to make a stiff joint; to grow together into one. [Spelt also ankylose.] Owen.  ANCHYLOSIS; ANKYLOSIS An`chy*lo"sis, An`ky*lo"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ankylose.]  1. (Med.)  Stiffness or fixation of a joint; formation of a stiff joint. Dunglison.  2. (Anat.)  The union of two or more separate bones to from a single bone; the close union of bones or other structures in various animals. 

ANCHYLOTIC:  Of or pertaining to anchylosis. 

ANCIENT:  Those who lived in former ages, as opposed to the moderns.  2. An aged man; a patriarch. Hence: A governor; a ruler; a person of influence. The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people, and the princes thereof. Isa. iii. 14.  3. A senior; an elder; a predecessor. [Obs.] Junius and Andronicus . . . in Christianity . . . were his ancients. Hooker.  4. pl. (Eng. Law)  One of the senior members of the Inns of Court or of Chancery. Council of Ancients (French Hist.), one of the two assemblies composing the legislative bodies in 1795. Brande. 

ANCIENTNESS:  The quality of being ancient; antiquity; existence from old times. 

ANCILE:  The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen from heaven in the reign of Numa. It was the palladium of Rome. 

ANCILLARY:  Subservient or subordinate, like a handmaid; auxiliary. The Convocation of York seems to have been always considered as inferior, and even ancillary, to the greater province. Hallam.  ANCILLARY ADMINISTRATION An"cil*la*ry ad*min`is*tra"tion. (Law)  An administration subordinate to, and in aid of, the primary or principal administration of an estate. 

ANCILLE:  A maidservant; a handmaid. [Obs.] Chaucer.  ANCIPITAL; ANCIPITOUS An*cip"i*tal, An*cip"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. anceps, ancipitis, two- headed, double; an- for amb- on both sides + caput head.] (Bot.)  Two-edged instead of round; -- said of certain flattened stems, as those of blue grass, and rarely also of leaves. 

ANCISTROID:  Hook-shaped. 

ANCLE:  See Ankle. 

ANCOME:  A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow. [Obs.] Boucher. 

ANCON:  The olecranon, or the elbow. Ancon sheep (Zoöl.), a breed of sheep with short crooked legs and long back. It originated in Massachusetts in 1791; -- called also the otter breed.  ANCON; ANCONE An"con, An"cone, n. Etym: [See Ancon, above.] (Arch.) (a) The corner or quoin of a wall, cross-beam, or rafter. [Obs.] Gwilt. (b) A bracket supporting a cornice; a console.  ANCONAL; ANCONEAL An"co*nal, An*co"ne*al, a. (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to the ancon or elbow. "The olecranon on anconeal process." Flower. 

ANCONEUS:  A muscle of the elbow and forearm. 

ANCONOID:  Elbowlike; anconal. 

ANCONY:  A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar in the middle, but unwrought at the ends.  -ANCY -an*cy. Etym: [L. -antia.-]  A suffix expressing more strongly than -ance the idea of quality or state; as, constancy, buoyancy, infancy. 

ANDABATISM:  Doubt; uncertainty. [Obs.] Shelford. 

ANDALUSITE:  A silicate of aluminium, occurring usually in thick rhombic prisms, nearly square, of a grayish or pale reddish tint. It was first discovered in Andalusia, Spain. 

ANDANTE:  Moving moderately slow, but distinct and flowing; quicker than larghetto, and slower than allegretto.  -- n.  A movement or piece in andante time. 

ANDANTINO:  Rather quicker than andante; between that allegretto.  Note: Some, taking andante in its original sense of "going," and andantino as its diminutive, or "less going," define the latter as slower than andante. 

ANDARAC:  Red orpiment. Coxe. 

ANDEAN:  Pertaining to the Andes. 

ANDESINE:  A kind of triclinic feldspar found in the Andes. 

ANDESITE:  An eruptive rock allied to trachyte, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar, with pyroxene, hornblende, or hypersthene. 

ANDINE:  Andean; as, Andine flora. 

ANDIRON:  A utensil for supporting wood when burning in a fireplace, one being placed on each side; a firedog; as, a pair of andirons. 

ANDRANATOMY:  The dissection of a human body, especially of a male; androtomy. Coxe. 

ANDROCEPHALOUS:  Having a human head (upon an animal's body), as the Egyptian sphinx.  ANDRODIOECIOUS; ANDRODIECIOUS An`dro*di*o"cious, An`dro*di*e"cious, a. [Gr. , , man + E. diocious.] (Bot.)  Having perfect and staminate flowers on different plants. -- An`dro*di*o"cism, -di*e"cism (#), n. 

ANDROECIUM:  The stamens of a flower taken collectively. 

ANDROGYNE:  An androgynous plant. Whewell.  ANDROGYNOUS; ANDROGYNAL An*drog"y*nous, An*drog"y*nal, a. Etym: [L. androgynus, Gr. androgyne.]  1. Uniting both sexes in one, or having the characteristics of both; being in nature both male and female; hermaphroditic. Owen. The truth is, a great mind must be androgynous. Coleridge.  2. (Bot.)  Bearing both staminiferous and pistilliferous flowers in the same cluster.  ANDROGYNY; ANDROGYNISM An*drog"y*ny, An*drog"y*nism, n.  Union of both sexes in one individual; hermaphroditism. 

ANDROID:  Resembling a man.  ANDROID; ANDROIDES An"droid, An*droi"des, n. Etym: [Gr.  A machine or automaton in the form of a human being. 

ANDROMEDA:  A northern constellation, supposed to represent the mythical Andromeda.  2. (bot.)  A genus of ericaceous flowering plants of northern climates, of which the original species was found growing on a rock surrounded by water.  ANDROMEDE; ANDROMED An"dro*mede, An"dro*med, n. (Astron.)  A meteor appearing to radiate from a point in the constellation Andromeda, -- whence the name.   A shower of these meteors takes place every year on November 27th or 28th. The Andromedes are also called Bielids, as they are connected with Biela's comet and move in its orbit. 

ANDRON:  The apartment appropriated for the males. This was in the lower part of the house. 

ANDROPETALOUS:  Produced by the conversion of the stamens into petals, as double flowers, like the garden ranunculus. Brande. 

ANDROPHAGI:  Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi. [R.] 

ANDROPHAGOUS:  Anthropophagous. 

ANDROPHORE:  A support or column on which stamens are raised. Gray.  2. (Zoöl.)  The part which in some Siphonophora bears the male gonophores. 

ANDROPOGON:  A very large and important genus of grasses, found in nearly all parts of the world. It includes the lemon grass of Ceylon and the beard grass, or broom sedge, of the United States. The principal subgenus is Sorghum, including  A. sorghum and A. halepensis, from which have been derived the Chinese sugar cane, the Johnson grass, the Aleppo grass, the broom corn, and the durra, or Indian millet. Several East Indian species, as A. nardus and A. schonanthus, yield fragrant oils, used in perfumery. 

ANDROSPHINX:  A man sphinx; a sphinx having the head of a man and the body of a lion. 

ANDROSPORE:  A spore of some algæ, which has male functions. 

ANDROTOMOUS:  Having the filaments of the stamens divided into two parts. 

ANDROTOMY:  Dissection of the human body, as distinguished from zoötomy; anthropotomy. [R.] 

ANDROUS:  A terminal combining form: Having a stamen or stamens; staminate; as, monandrous, with one stamen; polyandrous, with many stamens. 

ANEAR:  Near. [R.] "It did not come anear." Coleridge. The measure of misery anear us. I. Taylor. 

ANEAR:  To near; to approach. [Archaic] 

ANEATH:  Beneath. [Scot.] 

ANECDOTAGE:  Anecdotes collectively; a collection of anecdotes. All history, therefore, being built partly, and some of it altogether, upon anecdotage, must be a tissue of lies. De Quincey. 

ANECDOTAL:  Pertaining to, or abounding with, anecdotes; as, anecdotal conversation. 

ANECDOTE:  Unpublished narratives. Burke.  2. A particular or detached incident or fact of an interesting nature; a biographical incident or fragment; a single passage of private life.  ANECDOTIC; ANECDOTICAL An`ec*dot"ic, An`ec*dot"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to, consisting of, or addicted to, anecdotes. "Anecdotical traditions." Bolingbroke. 

ANECDOTIST:  One who relates or collects anecdotes. 

ANELACE:  Same as Anlace. 

ANELECTRIC:  Not becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to idioelectric.  -- n.  A substance incapable of being electrified by friction. Faraday. 

ANELECTRODE:  The positive pole of a voltaic battery. 

ANELECTROTONUS:  The condition of decreased irritability of a nerve in the region of the positive electrode or anode on the passage of a current of electricity through it. Foster. 

ANEMOGRAM:  A record made by an anemograph. 

ANEMOGRAPH:  An instrument for measuring and recording the direction and force of the wind. Knight. 

ANEMOGRAPHIC:  Produced by an anemograph; of or pertaining to anemography. 

ANEMOLOGY:  The science of the wind. 

ANEMOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the force or velocity of the wind; a wind gauge.  ANEMOMETRIC; ANEMOMETRICAL An`e*mo*met"ric, An`e*mo*met"ric*al, a.  Of or pertaining to anemometry. 

ANEMOMETROGRAPH:  An anemograph. Knight. 

ANEMOMETRY:  The act or process of ascertaining the force or velocity of the wind. 

ANEMONE:  A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family; windflower. Some of the species are cultivated in gardens.  2. (Zoöl.)  The sea anemone. See Actinia, and Sea anemone.  Note: This word is sometimes pronounced , especially by classical scholars. 

ANEMONIC:  An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from, the anemone, or from anemonin. 

ANEMONIN:  An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from some species of anemone. 

ANEMONY:  See Anemone. Sandys. 

ANEMORPHILOUS:  Fertilized by the agency of the wind; -- said of plants in which the pollen is carried to the stigma by the wind; wind- Fertilized. Lubbock. 

ANEMOSCOPE:  An instrument which shows the direction of the wind; a wind vane; a weathercock; -- usually applied to a contrivance consisting of a vane above, connected in the building with a dial or index with pointers to show the changes of the wind. 

ANEMOSIS:  A condition in the wood of some trees in which the rings are separated, as some suppose, by the action of high winds upon the trunk; wind shake.  ANENCEPHALIC; ANENCEPHALOUS An*en`ce*phal"ic, An`en*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. Encephalon.] (Zoöl.)  Without a brain; brainless. Todd & B.  ANENST; ANENT A*nenst", A*nent", prep. Etym: [OE. anent, anentis, anence, anens, anents, AS. onefen, onemn; an, on, on + efen even, equal; hence meaning, on an equality with, even with, beside. See Even, a.] [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]  1. Over against; as, he lives anent the church.  2. About; concerning; in respect; as, he said nothing anent this particular. 

ANENTEROUS:  Destitute of a stomach or an intestine. Owen.  ANERGIA; ANERGY An*er"gi*a, An"er*gy, n. [NL. anergia, fr. Gr. - not +  work.]  Lack of energy; inactivity. -- An*er"gic (#), a. 

ANEROID:  Containing no liquid; -- said of kind of barometer. Aneroid barometer, a barometer the action of which depends on the varying pressure of the atmosphere upon the elastic top of a metallic box (shaped like a watch) from which the air has been exhausted. An index shows the variation of pressure. 

ANEROID:  An aneroid barometer. 

ANES:  Once. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.  ANESTHESIA; ANESTHETIC An`es*the"si*a, n., An`es*thet"ic, a.  Same as Anæsthesia, Anæsthetic. 

ANET:  The herb dill, or dillseed. 

ANETHOL:  A substance obtained from the volatile oils of anise, fennel, etc., in the form of soft shining scales; -- called also anise camphor. Watts. 

ANETIC:  Soothing. 

ANEURISM:  A soft, pulsating, hollow tumor, containing blood, arising from the preternatural dilation or rupture of the coats of an artery. [Written also aneurysm.] 

ANEURISMAL:  Of or pertaining to an aneurism; as, an aneurismal tumor; aneurismal diathesis. [Written also aneurysmal.] 

ANEW:  Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to arm anew; to create anew. Dryden. 

ANFRACTUOSE:  Anfractuous; as, anfractuose anthers. 

ANFRACTUOSITY:  A sinuous depression or sulcus like those separating the convolutions of the brain. 

ANFRACTUOUS:  Winding; full of windings and turnings; sinuous; tortuous; as, the anfractuous spires of a born.  -- An*frac"tu*ous*ness, n. 

ANFRACTURE:  A mazy winding. 

ANGARIATION:  Exaction of forced service; compulsion. [Obs.] Speed.  ANGEIOLOGY; ANGEIOTOMY An`gei*ol"o*gy, n., An`gei*ot"o*my, etc.  Same as Angiology, Angiotomy, etc. 

ANGEL:  An ancient gold coin of England, bearing the figure of the archangel Michael. It varied in value from 6s. 8d. to 10s. Amer. Cyc.  Note: Angel is sometimes used adjectively; as, angel grace; angel whiteness. Angel bed, a bed without posts.  -- Angel fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A species of shark (Squatina angelus) from six to eight feet long, found on the coasts of Europe and North America. It takes its name from its pectoral fins, which are very large and extend horizontally like wings when spread. (b) One of several species of compressed, bright colored fishes warm seas, belonging to the family, Chætodontidæ.  -- Angel gold, standard gold. [Obs.] Fuller.  -- Angel shark. See Angel fish.  -- Angel shot (Mil.), a kind of chain shot.  -- Angel water, a perfumed liquid made at first chiefly from angelica; afterwards containing rose, myrtle, and orange-flower waters, with ambergris, etc. [Obs.] 

ANGELAGE:  Existence or state of angels. 

ANGELET:  A small gold coin formerly current in England; a half angel. Eng. Cyc.  ANGEL FISH An"gel fish.  See under Angel. 

ANGELHOOD:  The state of being an angel; angelic nature. Mrs. Browning.  ANGELIC; ANGELICAL An*gel"ic, An*gel"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. angelicus, Gr. angélique.]  Belonging to, or proceeding from, angels; resembling, characteristic of, or partaking of the nature of, an angel; heavenly; divine. "Angelic harps." Thomson."Angelical actions." Hooker. The union of womanly tenderness and angelic patience. Macaulay. Angelic Hymn, a very ancient hymn of the Christian Church; -- so called from its beginning with the song of the heavenly host recorded in Luke ii. 14. Eadie. 

ANGELIC:  Of or derived from angelica; as, angelic acid; angelic ether. Angelic acid, an acid obtained from angelica and some other plants. 

ANGELICALLY:  Like an angel. 

ANGELICALNESS:  The quality of being angelic; excellence more than human. 

ANGELIFY:  To make like an angel; to angelize. [Obs.] Farindon (1647). 

ANGELIZE:  To raise to the state of an angel; to render angelic. It ought not to be our object to angelize, nor to brutalize, but to humanize man. W. Taylor. 

ANGELLIKE:  Resembling an angel. 

ANGELOLATRY:  Worship paid to angels. 

ANGELOLOGY:  A discourse on angels, or a body of doctrines in regard to angels. The same mythology commanded the general consent; the same angelology, demonology. Milman. 

ANGELOPHANY:  The actual appearance of an angel to man. 

ANGERLY:  Angrily. [Obs. or Poetic] Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly. Shak. 

ANGEVINE:  Of or pertaining to Anjou in France.  -- n. A native of Anjou. 

ANGIENCHYMA:  Vascular tissue of plants, consisting of spiral vessels, dotted, barred, and pitted ducts, and laticiferous vessels. 

ANGINA:  Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as the quinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tends to produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath. Angina pectoris, a peculiarly painful disease, so named from a sense of suffocating contraction or tightening of the lower part of the chest; -- called also breast pang, spasm of the chest.  ANGINOUS; ANGINOSE An"gi*nous, An"gi*nose`, a. (Med.)  Pertaining to angina or angina pectoris.  ANGIO- An"gi*o-. Etym: [Gr.  A prefix, or combining form, in numerous compounds, usually relating to seed or blood vessels, or to something contained in, or covered by, a vessel. 

ANGIOGRAPHY:  A description of blood vessels and lymphatics. 

ANGIOLOGY:  That part of anatomy which treats of blood vessels and lymphatics. 

ANGIOMA:  A tumor composed chiefly of dilated blood vessels. 

ANGIOMONOSPERMOUS:  Producing one seed only in a seed pod. 

ANGIONEUROSIS:  Any disorder of the vasomotor system; neurosis of a blood vessel. --An`gi*o*neu*rot"ic (#), a. 

ANGIOPATHY:  Disease of the vessels, esp. the blood vessels. 

ANGIOSCOPE:  An instrument for examining the capillary vessels of animals and plants. Morin. 

ANGIOSPERM:  A plant which has its seeds inclosed in a pericarp.  Note: The term is restricted to exogenous plants, and applied to one of the two grand divisions of these species, the other division including gymnosperms, or those which have naked seeds. The oak, apple, beech, etc., are angiosperms, while the pines, spruce, hemlock, and the allied varieties, are gymnosperms. 

ANGIOSPERMATOUS:  Same as Angiospermous. 

ANGIOSPERMOUS:  Having seeds inclosed in a pod or other pericarp. 

ANGIOSPOROUS:  Having spores contained in cells or thecæ, as in the case of some fungi. 

ANGIOSTOMOUS:  With a narrow mouth, as the shell of certain gastropods. 

ANGIOTOMY:  Dissection of the blood vessels and lymphatics of the body. Dunglison. 

ANGLE:  A name given to four of the twelve astrological "houses." [Obs.] Chaucer.  5. Etym: [AS. angel.]  A fishhook; tackle for catching fish, consisting of a line, hook, and bait, with or without a rod. Give me mine angle: we 'll to the river there. Shak. A fisher next his trembling angle bears. Pope. Acute angle, one less than a right angle, or less than 90º.  -- Adjacent or Contiguous angles, such as have one leg common to both angles.  -- Alternate angles. See Alternate.  -- Angle bar. (a) (Carp.) An upright bar at the angle where two faces of a polygonal or bay window meet. Knight. (b) (Mach.) Same as Angle iron.  -- Angle bead (Arch.), a bead worked on or fixed to the angle of any architectural work, esp. for protecting an angle of a wall.  -- Angle brace, Angle tie (Carp.), a brace across an interior angle of a wooden frame, forming the hypothenuse and securing the two side pieces together. Knight.  -- Angle iron (Mach.), a rolled bar or plate of iron having one or more angles, used for forming the corners, or connecting or sustaining the sides of an iron structure to which it is riveted.  -- Angle leaf (Arch.), a detail in the form of a leaf, more or less conventionalized, used to decorate and sometimes to strengthen an angle.  -- Angle meter, an instrument for measuring angles, esp. for ascertaining the dip of strata.  -- Angle shaft (Arch.), an enriched angle bead, often having a capital or base, or both.  -- Curvilineal angle, one formed by two curved lines.  -- External angles, angles formed by the sides of any right-lined figure, when the sides are produced or lengthened.  -- Facial angle. See under Facial.  -- Internal angles, those which are within any right-lined figure.  -- Mixtilineal angle, one formed by a right line with a curved line.  -- Oblique angle, one acute or obtuse, in opposition to a right angle.  -- Obtuse angle, one greater than a right angle, or more than 90º.  -- Optic angle. See under Optic.  -- Rectilineal or Right-lined angle, one formed by two right lines.  -- Right angle, one formed by a right line falling on another perpendicularly, or an angle of 90º (measured by a quarter circle).  -- Solid angle, the figure formed by the meeting of three or more plane angles at one point.  -- Spherical angle, one made by the meeting of two arcs of great circles, which mutually cut one another on the surface of a globe or sphere.  -- Visual angle, the angle formed by two rays of light, or two straight lines drawn from the extreme points of an object to the center of the eye.  -- For Angles of commutation, draught, incidence, reflection, refraction, position, repose, fraction, see Commutation, Draught, Incidence, Reflection, Refraction, etc. 

ANGLE:  To try to gain by some insinuating artifice; to allure. [Obs.] "He angled the people's hearts." Sir P. Sidney. 

ANGLED:  Having an angle or angles; -- used in compounds; as, right- angled, many-angled, etc. The thrice three-angled beechnut shell. Bp. Hall. 

ANGLEMETER:  An instrument to measure angles, esp. one used by geologists to measure the dip of strata.  ANGLE OF ENTRY An"gle of en"try. (Aëronautics)  The angle between the tangent to the advancing edge (of an aërocurve) and the line of motion; -- contrasted with angle of trail, which is the angle between the tangent to the following edge and the line of motion.  ANGLE OF INCIDENCE Angle of incidence. (Aëronautics)  The angle between the chord of an aërocurve and the relative direction of the undisturbed air current. 

ANGLER:  A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having a large, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiar appendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes within reach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish, allmouth, monkfish, etc. 

ANGLES:  An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, which came to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England). The Angles probably came from the district of Angeln (now within the limits of Schleswig), and the country now Lower Hanover, etc. 

ANGLESITE:  A native sulphate of lead. It occurs in white or yellowish transparent, prismatic crystals. 

ANGLEWISE:  In an angular manner; angularly. 

ANGLEWORM:  A earthworm of the genus Lumbricus, frequently used by anglers for bait. See Earthworm. 

ANGLIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Angles.  -- n.  One of the Angles. 

ANGLIC:  Anglian. 

ANGLICE:  In English; in the English manner; as, Livorno, Anglice Leghorn. 

ANGLICIFY:  To anglicize. [R.] 

ANGLICITY:  The state or quality of being English. 

ANGLICIZATION:  The act of anglicizing, or making English in character. 

ANGLICIZE:  To make English; to English; to anglify; render conformable to the English idiom, or to English analogies. 

ANGLIFY:  To convert into English; to anglicize. Franklin. Darwin. 

ANGLING:  The act of one who angles; the art of fishing with rod and line. Walton.  ANGLO- An"glo- Etym: [NL. Anglus English. See Anglican.]  A combining form meaning the same as English; or English and, or English conjoined with; as, Anglo-Turkish treaty, Anglo-German, Anglo-Irish. Anglo-American, . Of or pertaining to the English and Americans, or to the descendants of Englishmen in America.  -- n. A descendant from English ancestors born in America, or the United States. Anglo-Danish, a. Of or pertaining to the English and Danes, or to the Danes who settled in England. Anglo-Indian, a. Of or pertaining to the English in India, or to the English and East Indian peoples or languages.  -- n. One of the Anglo-Indian race born or resident in the East Indies. Anglo-Norman, a. Of or pertaining to the English and Normans, or to the Normans who settled in England.  -- n. One of the English Normans, or the Normans who conquered England. Anglo-Saxon. See Anglo-Saxon in the Vocabulary.  ANGLO-CATHOLIC An"glo-Cath"o*lic, a.,  Of or pertaining to a church modeled on the English Reformation; Anglican; -- sometimes restricted to the ritualistic or High Church section of the Church of England.  ANGLO-CATHOLIC An"glo-Cath"o*lic, n.  A member of the Church of England who contends for its catholic character; more specifically, a High Churchman.  ANGLO-CATHOLICISM An"glo-Ca*thol"i*cism, n.  The belief of those in the Church of England who accept many doctrines and practices which they maintain were those of the primitive, or true, Catholic Church, of which they consider the Church of England to be the lineal descendant. 

ANGLOMANIA:  A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, English customs, institutions, etc. 

ANGLOMANIAC:  One affected with Anglomania. 

ANGLOPHOBIA:  Intense dread of, or aversion to, England or the English.  -- An"glo*phobe, n.  ANGLO-SAXON An"glo-Sax"on, n. Etym: [L. Angli-Saxones English Saxons.]  1. A Saxon of Britain, that is, an English Saxon, or one the Saxons who settled in England, as distinguished from a continental (or "Old") Saxon.  2. pl.  The Teutonic people (Angles, Saxons, Jutes) of England, or the English people, collectively, before the Norman Conquest. It is quite correct to call Æthelstan "King of the Anglo-Saxons," but to call this or that subject of Æthelstan "an Anglo-Saxon" is simply nonsense. E. A. Freeman.  3. The language of the English people before the Conquest (sometimes called Old English). See Saxon.  4. One of the race or people who claim descent from the Saxons, Angles, or other Teutonic tribes who settled in England; a person of English descent in its broadest sense.  ANGLO-SAXON An"glo-Sax"on, a.  Of or pertaining to the Anglo-Saxons or their language.  ANGLO-SAXONDOM An"glo-Sax"on*dom, n.  The Anglo-Saxon domain (i. e., Great Britain and the United States, etc.); the Anglo-Saxon race.  ANGLO-SAXONISM An"glo-Sax"on*ism, n.  1. A characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race; especially, a word or an idiom of the Anglo-Saxon tongue. M. Arnold.  2. The quality or sentiment of being Anglo-Saxon, or English in its ethnological sense. 

ANGOLA:  A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat.  ANGOLA PEA An*go"la pea`. (Bot.)  A tropical plant (Cajanus indicus) and its edible seed, a kind of pulse; -- so called from Angola in Western Africa. Called also pigeon pea and Congo pea. 

ANGOR:  Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upper part of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression. 

ANGORA:  A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia) which has given its name to a goat, a cat, etc. Angora cat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic cat with very long and silky hair, generally of the brownish white color. Called also Angola cat. See Cat.  -- Angora goat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic goat, reared for its long silky hair, which is highly prized for manufacture.  ANGOSTURA BARK An`gos*tu"ra bark". Etym: [From Angostura, in Venezuela.]  An aromatic bark used as a tonic, obtained from a South American of the rue family (Galipea cusparia, or officinalis). U. S. Disp.  ANGOUMOIS MOTH An`gou`mois" moth". Etym: [So named from Angoumois in France.] (Zoöl.)  A small moth (Gelechia cerealella) which is very destructive to wheat and other grain. The larva eats out the inferior of the grain, leaving only the shell. 

ANGRILY:  In an angry manner; under the influence of anger. 

ANGRINESS:  The quality of being angry, or of being inclined to anger. Such an angriness of humor that we take fire at everything. Whole Duty of Man. 

ANGUIFORM:  Snake-shaped. 

ANGUILLIFORM:  Eel-shaped.  Note: The "Anguillæformes" of Cuvier are fishes related to thee eel. 

ANGUINE:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a snake or serpent. "The anguine or snakelike reptiles." Owen. 

ANGUINEAL:  Anguineous. 

ANGUINEOUS:  Snakelike. 

ANGUISH:  Extreme pain, either of body or mind; excruciating distress. But they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage. Ex. vi. 9. Anguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child. Jer. iv. 31.  Note: Rarely used in the plural: - Ye miserable people, you must go to God in anguishes, and make your prayer to him. Latimer.  Syn.  -- Agony; pang; torture; torment. See Agony. 

ANGUISH:  To distress with extreme pain or grief. [R.] Temple. 

ANGULAR:  A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles, and fishes. 

ANGULARITY:  The quality or state of being angular; angularness. 

ANGULARLY:  In an angular manner; with of at angles or corners. B. Jonson. 

ANGULARNESS:  The quality of being angular. 

ANGULATE:  To make angular.  ANGULATE; ANGULATED An"gu*late, An"gu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. angulatus, p. p. of angulare to make angular.]  Having angles or corners; angled; as, angulate leaves. 

ANGULATION:  A making angular; angular formation. Huxley.  ANGULO-DENTATE An"gu*lo-den"tate(#), a.. Etym: [L. angulus angle + dens, dentis, tooth.] (Bot.)  Angularly toothed, as certain leaves. 

ANGULOMETER:  An instrument for measuring external angles. 

ANGULOSE:  Angulous. [R.] 

ANGULOSITY:  A state of being angulous or angular. [Obs.] 

ANGULOUS:  Angular; having corners; hooked. [R.] Held together by hooks and angulous involutions. Glanvill. 

ANGUST:  Narrow; strait. [Obs.] 

ANGUSTATE:  Narrowed. 

ANGUSTATION:  The act or making narrow; a straitening or contacting. Wiseman. 

ANGUSTICLAVE:  A narrow stripe of purple worn by the equites on each side of the tunic as a sign of rank.  ANGUSTIFOLIATE; ANGUSTIFOLIOUS An*gus`ti*fo"li*ate, An*gus`ti*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. angustus narrow (see Anguish) + folium leaf.] (Bot.)  Having narrow leaves. Wright.  ANGUSTURA BARK An`gus*tu"ra bark`.  See Angostura bark. 

ANGWANTIBO:  A small lemuroid mammal (Arctocebus Calabarensis) of Africa. It has only a rudimentary tail. 

ANHANG:  To hang. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ANHARMONIC:  Not harmonic. The anharmonic function or ratio of four points abcd on a straight line is the quantity (ac/ad):(bc/bd), where the segments are to regarded as plus or minus, according to the order of the letters. 

ANHELATION:  Short and rapid breathing; a panting; asthma. Glanvill. 

ANHELE:  To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for). [Obs.] They anhele . . . for the fruit of our convocation. Latimer. 

ANHELOSE:  Anhelous; panting. [R.] 

ANHELOUS:  Short of breath; panting. 

ANHIMA:  A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi (Palamedea cornuta). See Kamichi. 

ANHINGA:  An aquatic bird of the southern United States (Platus anhinga); the darter, or snakebird. 

ANHISTOUS:  Without definite structure; as, an anhistous membrane. 

ANHUNGERED:  Ahungered; longing. [Archaic] 

ANHYDRIDE:  An oxide of a nonmetallic body or an organic radical, capable of forming an acid by uniting with the elements of water; -- so called because it may be formed from an acid by the abstraction of water. 

ANHYDRITE:  A mineral of a white a slightly bluish color, usually massive. It is anhydrous sulphate of lime, and differs from gypsum in not containing water (whence the name). 

ANHYDROUS:  Destitute of water; as, anhydrous salts or acids.  ANI; ANO A"ni or A"no, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)  A black bird of tropical America, the West Indies and Florida (Crotophaga ani), allied to the cuckoos, and remarkable for communistic nesting.  ANICUT; ANNICUT An"i*cut, An"ni*cut, n. Etym: [Tamil anai kattu dam building.]  A dam or mole made in the course of a stream for the purpose of regulating the flow of a system of irrigation. [India] Brande & C.  ANIDIOMATIC; ANIDIOMATICAL; UNIDIOMATIC; UNIDIOMATICAL An*id`io*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. idiomatical.]  Not idiomatic. [R.] Landor.  ANIENT; ANIENTISE An"i*ent, An`i*en"tise, v. t. Etym: [OF. anientir, F. anéantir.]  To frustrate; to bring to naught; to annihilate. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ANIGH:  Nigh. [Archaic]  ANIGHT; ANIGHTS A*night", A*nights", adv. Etym: [OE. on niht.]  In the night time; at night. [Archaic] Does he hawk anights still Marston. 

ANIL:  A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil), one of the original sources of indigo; also, the indigo dye. 

ANILE:  Old-womanish; imbecile. "Anile ideas." Walpole. 

ANILENESS:  Anility. [R.] 

ANILIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied to an acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo. [R.] 

ANILIDE:  One of a class of compounds which may be regarded as amides in which more or less of the hydrogen has been replaced by phenyl. 

ANILINE:  An organic base belonging to the phenylamines. It may be regarded as ammonia in which one hydrogen atom has been replaced by the radical phenyl. It is a colorless, oily liquid, originally obtained from indigo by distillation, but now largely manufactured from coal tar or nitrobenzene as a base from which many brilliant dyes are made. 

ANILINE:  Made from, or of the nature of, aniline. 

ANILINISM:  A disease due to inhaling the poisonous fumes present in the manufacture of aniline. 

ANILITY:  The state of being and old woman; old-womanishness; dotage. "Marks of anility." Sterne. 

ANIMADVERSAL:  The faculty of perceiving; a percipient. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

ANIMADVERSIVE:  Having the power of perceiving; percipient. [Archaic] Glanvill. I do not mean there is a certain number of ideas glaring and shining to the animadversive faculty. Coleridge. 

ANIMADVERTER:  One who animadverts; a censurer; also [Obs.], a chastiser. 

ANIMAL:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules. "Animalcular life." Tyndall. 

ANIMALCULE:  An animal, invisible, or nearly so, to the naked eye. See Infusoria.  Note: Many of the so-called animalcules have been shown to be plants, having locomotive powers something like those of animals. Among these are Volvox, the Desmidiacæ, and the siliceous Diatomaceæ. Spermatic animalcules. See Spermatozoa. 

ANIMALCULISM:  The theory which seeks to explain certain physiological and pathological by means of animalcules. 

ANIMALCULUM:  An animalcule.  Note: Animalculæ, as if from a Latin singular animalcula, is a barbarism. 

ANIMALISH:  Like an animal. 

ANIMALISM:  The state, activity, or enjoyment of animals; mere animal life without intellectual or moral qualities; sensuality. 

ANIMALITY:  Animal existence or nature. Locke. 

ANIMALLY:  Physically. G. Eliot. 

ANIMALNESS:  Animality. [R.] 

ANIMASTIC:  Pertaining to mind or spirit; spiritual. 

ANIMASTIC:  Psychology. [Obs.] 

ANIMATE:  Endowed with life; alive; living; animated; lively. The admirable structure of animate bodies. Bentley. 

ANIMATED:  Endowed with life; full of life or spirit; indicating animation; lively; vigorous. "Animated sounds." Pope. "Animated bust." Gray. "Animated descriptions." Lewis. 

ANIMATEDLY:  With animation. 

ANIMATER:  One who animates. De Quincey. 

ANIMATING:  Causing animation; life-giving; inspiriting; rousing. "Animating cries." Pope.  -- An"i*ma`ting*ly, adv. 

ANIMATIVE:  Having the power of giving life or spirit. Johnson. 

ANIMATOR:  One who, or that which, animates; an animater. Sir T. Browne. 

ANIME:  Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of the eyes of a rapacious animal. Brande & C. 

ANIME:  A resin exuding from a tropical American tree (Hymenæa courbaril), and much used by varnish makers. Ure. 

ANIMIST:  One who maintains the doctrine of animism. 

ANIMISTIC:  Of or pertaining to animism. Huxley. Tylor.  ANIMOSE; ANIMOUS An`i*mose", An"i*mous, a. Etym: [L. animosus, fr. animus soul, spirit, courage.]  Full of spirit; hot; vehement; resolute. [Obs.] Ash. 

ANIMOSENESS:  Vehemence of temper. [Obs.] 

ANIMUS:  Animating spirit; intention; temper. nimus furandi Etym: [L.] (Law), intention of stealing. 

ANION:  An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro- chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed to cation. Faraday. 

ANISE:  An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally in Egypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative and aromatic seeds.  2. The fruit or seeds of this plant. 

ANISEED:  The seed of the anise; also, a cordial prepared from it. "Oil of aniseed." Brande & C. 

ANISETTE:  A French cordial or liqueur flavored with anise seeds. De Colange. 

ANISIC:  Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol. 

ANISOCORIA:  Inequality of the pupils of the eye.  ANISODACTYLA; ANISODACTYLS An`i*so*dac"ty*la, An`i*so*dac"tyls, n. pl. Etym: [NL. anisodactyla, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) (a) A group of herbivorous mammals characterized by having the hoofs in a single series around the foot, as the elephant, rhinoceros, etc. (b) A group of perching birds which are anisodactylous. 

ANISODACTYLOUS:  Characterized by unequal toes, three turned forward and one backward, as in most passerine birds. 

ANISOL:  Methyl phenyl ether, C6H5OCH3, got by distilling anisic acid or by the action of methide on potassium phenolate. 

ANISOMERIC:  Not isomeric; not made of the same components in the same proportions. 

ANISOMEROUS:  Having the number of floral organs unequal, as four petals and six stamens. 

ANISOMETRIC:  Not isometric; having unsymmetrical parts; -- said of crystals with three unequal axes. Dana. 

ANISOMETROPIA:  Unequal refractive power in the two eyes. 

ANISOPETALOUS:  Having unequal petals. 

ANISOPHYLLOUS:  Having unequal leaves. 

ANISOPLEURA:  A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiral shells. The two sides of the body are unequally developed. 

ANISOPODA:  A division of Crustacea, which, in some its characteristics, is intermediate between Amphipoda and Isopoda. 

ANISOSPORE:  A sexual spore in which the sexes differ in size; -- opposed to isospore. 

ANISOSTEMONOUS:  Having unequal stamens; having stamens different in number from the petals. 

ANISOSTHENIC:  Of unequal strength.  ANISOTROPE; ANISOTROPIC An"i*so*trope`, An`i*so*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)  Not isotropic; having different properties in different directions; thus, crystals of the isometric system are optically isotropic, but all other crystals are anisotropic. 

ANISOTROPOUS:  Anisotropic. 

ANITO:  In Guam and the Philippines, an idol, fetich, or spirit. 

ANKER:  A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutch anker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the old wine gallons, or 8 

ANKERITE:  A mineral closely related to dolomite, but containing iron. 

ANKH:  A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute or sacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life. Called also crux ansata. 

ANKLE:  The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus. Ankle bone, the bone of the ankle; the astragalus. 

ANKLED:  Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled. Beau. & Fl. 

ANKLET:  An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring. 

ANKUS:  An elephant goad with a sharp spike and hook, resembling a short-handled boat hook. [India] Kipling. 

ANKYLOSE:  Same as Anchylose. 

ANKYLOSIS:  Same as Anchylosis. 

ANKYLOSTOMIASIS:  A disease due to the presence of the parasites Agchylostoma duodenale, Uncinaria (subgenus Necator) americana, or allied nematodes, in the small intestine. When present in large numbers they produce a severe anæmia by sucking the blood from the intestinal walls.  Called also miner's anæmia, tunnel disease, brickmaker's anæmia, Egyptian chlorosis. 

ANLACE:  A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle. [Written also anelace.] 

ANLAUT:  An initial sound, as of a word or syllable.  -- Im anlaut, initially; when initial; --used of sounds.  ANN; ANNAT Ann, An"nat, n. Etym: [LL. annata income of a year, also, of half a year, fr. L. annus year: cf. F. annate annats.] (Scots Law)  A half years's stipend, over and above what is owing for the incumbency, due to a minister's heirs after his decease. 

ANNA:  An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, or about 2 

ANNAL:  See Annals. 

ANNALIST:  A writer of annals. The monks . . . were the only annalists in those ages. Hume. 

ANNALISTIC:  Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dry annalistic style."A stiff annalistic method." Sir G. C. Lewis. 

ANNALIZE:  To record in annals. Sheldon. 

ANNALS:  The record of a single event or item. "In deathless annal." Young.  4. A periodic publication, containing records of discoveries, transactions of societies, etc.; as "Annals of Science."  Syn.  -- History. See History.  ANNATS; ANNATES An"nats, An"nates, n. pl. Etym: [See Ann.] (Eccl. Law)  The first year's profits of a spiritual preferment, anciently paid by the clergy to the pope; first fruits. In England, they now form a fund for the augmentation of poor livings. 

ANNEALER:  One who, or that which, anneals. 

ANNECTENT:  Connecting; annexing. Owen.  ANNELID; ANNELIDAN An`ne*lid, An*nel"i*dan, a. Etym: [F. annélide, fr. anneler to arrange in rings, OF. anel a ring, fr. L. anellus a ring, dim. of annulus a ring.] (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Annelida.  -- n.  One of the Annelida. 

ANNELIDA:  A division of the Articulata, having the body formed of numerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs. The principal subdivisions are the Chætopoda, including the Oligochæta or earthworms and Polychæta or marine worms; and the Hirudinea or leeches. See Chætopoda. 

ANNELIDOUS:  Of the nature of an annelid. 

ANNELLATA:  See Annelida. 

ANNELOID:  An animal resembling an annelid. 

ANNEX:  To join; to be united. Tooke. 

ANNEX:  Something annexed or appended; as, an additional stipulation to a writing, a subsidiary building to a main building; a wing. 

ANNEXATIONIST:  One who favors annexation. 

ANNEXER:  One who annexes. 

ANNEXION:  Annexation. [R.] Shak. 

ANNEXIONIST:  An annexationist. [R.] 

ANNEXMENT:  The act of annexing, or the thing annexed; appendage. [R.] Shak. 

ANNIHILABLE:  Capable of being annihilated. 

ANNIHILATE:  Anhilated. [Archaic] Swift. 

ANNIHILATIONIST:  One who believes that eternal punishment consists in annihilation or extinction of being; a destructionist. 

ANNIHILATIVE:  Serving to annihilate; destructive. 

ANNIHILATOR:  One who, or that which, annihilates; as, a fire annihilator. 

ANNIHILATORY:  Annihilative. 

ANNIVERSARILY:  Annually. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

ANNIVERSARY:  Returning with the year, at a stated time; annual; yearly; as, an anniversary feast. Anniversary day (R. C. Ch.). See Anniversary, n., 2.  -- Anniversary week, that week in the year in which the annual meetings of religious and benevolent societies are held in Boston and New York. [Eastern U. S.] 

ANNIVERSARY:  The day on which Mass is said yearly for the soul of a deceased person; the commemoration of some sacred event, as the dedication of a church or the consecration of a pope.  3. The celebration which takes place on an anniversary day. Dryden. 

ANNIVERSE:  Anniversary. [Obs.] Dryden. 

ANNODATED:  Curved somewhat in the form of the letter S. Cussans.  ANNO DOMINI An"no Dom"i*ni. Etym: [L., in the year of [our] Lord [Jesus Christ]; usually abbrev. a. d.]  In the year of the Christian era; as, a. d. 1887. 

ANNOMINATE:  To name. [R.] 

ANNOTATE:  To explain or criticize by notes; as, to annotate the works of Bacon. 

ANNOTATE:  To make notes or comments; -- with on or upon. 

ANNOTATION:  A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually in the plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or a passage. 

ANNOTATIONIST:  An annotator. [R.] 

ANNOTATIVE:  Characterized by annotations; of the nature of annotation. 

ANNOTATOR:  A writer of annotations; a commentator. 

ANNOTATORY:  Pertaining to an annotator; containing annotations. [R.] 

ANNOTINE:  A bird one year old, or that has once molted. 

ANNOTINOUS:  A year old; in Yearly growths.  ANNOTTO; ARNOTTO An*not"to, Ar*not"to, n. Etym: [Perh. the native name.]  A red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the tropical regions of America. It is used for coloring cheese, butter, etc. [Written also Anatto, Anatta, Annatto, Annotta, etc.] 

ANNOUNCEMENT:  The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces; proclamation; publication. 

ANNOUNCER:  One who announces. 

ANNOY:  A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what one dislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy. Worse than Tantalus' is her annoy. Shak. 

ANNOYER:  One who, or that which, annoys. 

ANNOYFUL:  Annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ANNOYING:  That annoys; molesting; vexatious.  -- An*noy"ing*ly, adv. 

ANNOYOUS:  Troublesome; annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ANNUAL:  A Mass for a deceased person or for some special object, said daily for a year or on the anniversary day. 

ANNUALIST:  One who writes for, or who edits, an annual. [R.] 

ANNUALLY:  Yearly; year by year. 

ANNUARY:  Annual. [Obs.] -- n.  A yearbook. 

ANNUELER:  A priest employed in saying annuals, or anniversary Masses. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ANNUENT:  Nodding; as, annuent muscles (used in nodding). 

ANNUITANT:  One who receives, or its entitled to receive, an annuity. Lamb. 

ANNUITY:  A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given number of years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance. 

ANNULARITY:  Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula. J. Rogers. 

ANNULARRY:  In an annular manner. 

ANNULARY:  Having the form of a ring; annular. Ray. 

ANNULATA:  A class of articulate animals, nearly equivalent to Annelida, including the marine annelids, earthworms, Gephyrea, Gymnotoma, leeches, etc. See Annelida. 

ANNULATE:  One of the Annulata.  ANNULATE; ANNULATED An"nu*late, An"nu*la`ted a. Etym: [L. annulatus.]  1. Furnished with, or composed of, rings; ringed; surrounded by rings of color.  2. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Annulata. 

ANNULATION:  A circular or ringlike formation; a ring or belt. Nicholson. 

ANNULET:  A small, flat fillet, encircling a column, etc., used by itself, or with other moldings. It is used, several times repeated, under the Doric capital.  3. (Her.)  A little circle borne as a charge.  4. (Zoöl.)  A narrow circle of some distinct color on a surface or round an organ. 

ANNULLABLE:  That may be Annulled. 

ANNULLER:  One who annuls. [R.] 

ANNULMENT:  The act of annulling; abolition; invalidation. 

ANNULOID:  Of or pertaining to the Annuloida. 

ANNULOIDA:  A division of the Articulata, including the annelids and allied groups; sometimes made to include also the helminths and echinoderms. [Written also Annuloidea.] 

ANNULOSA:  A division of the Invertebrata, nearly equivalent to the Articulata. It includes the Arthoropoda and Anarthropoda. By some zoölogists it is applied to the former only. 

ANNULOSAN:  One of the Annulosa. 

ANNULOSE:  Of or pertaining to the Annulosa. 

ANNULUS:  Ring-shaped structures or markings, found in, or upon, various animals. 

ANNUMERATE:  To add on; to count in. [Obs.] Wollaston. 

ANNUMERATION:  Addition to a former number. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ANNUNCIABLE:  That may be announced or declared; declarable. [R.] 

ANNUNCIATE:  To announce. 

ANNUNCIATE:  Foretold; preannounced. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ANNUNCIATION:  The common white lily (Lilium candidum). So called because it is usually introduced by painters in pictures of the Annunciation. 

ANNUNCIATIVE:  Pertaining to annunciation; announcing. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

ANNUNCIATORY:  Pertaining to, or containing, announcement; making known. [R.] 

ANOA:  A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to the buffalo, but having long nearly straight horns. 

ANODE:  The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly the electrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way to the other pole; -- opposed to cathode. 

ANODON:  A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having to teeth at the hinge. [Written also Anodonta.] 

ANODYNE:  Serving to assuage pain; soothing. The anodyne draught of oblivion. Burke.  Note: "The word [in a medical sense] in chiefly applied to the different preparations of opium, belladonna, hyoscyamus, and lettuce." Am. Cyc. 

ANODYNE:  Any medicine which allays pain, as an opiate or narcotic; anything that soothes disturbed feelings. 

ANODYNOUS:  Anodyne. 

ANOIL:  The anoint with oil. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

ANOINT:  Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ANOINTER:  One who anoints. 

ANOINTMENT:  The act of anointing, or state of being anointed; also, an ointment. Milton. 

ANOLIS:  A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidæ. They take the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and in America are often called chameleons. 

ANOMAL:  Anything anomalous. [R.]  ANOMALIPED; ANOMALIPEDE A*nom"a*li*ped(#), A*nom"a*li*pede, a. Etym: [L. anomalus irregular + pes, pedis, foot.]  Having anomalous feet. 

ANOMALIPED:  One of a group of perching birds, having the middle toe more or less united to the outer and inner ones. 

ANOMALISM:  An anomaly; a deviation from rule. Hooker.  ANOMALISTIC; ANOMALISTICAL A*nom`a*lis"tic, A*nom`a*lis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. anomalistique.]  1. Irregular; departing from common or established rules.  2. (Astron.)  Pertaining to the anomaly, or angular distance of a planet from its perihelion. Anomalistic month. See under Month.  -- Anomalistic revolution, the period in which a planet or satellite goes through the complete cycles of its changes of anomaly, or from any point in its elliptic orbit to the same again.  -- Anomalistic, or Periodical year. See under Year. 

ANOMALISTICALLY:  With irregularity. 

ANOMALOFLOROUS:  Having anomalous flowers. 

ANOMALOUS:  Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal; irregular; as, an anomalous proceeding. 

ANOMALOUSLY:  In an anomalous manner. 

ANOMALOUSNESS:  Quality of being anomalous. 

ANOMALY:  Any deviation from the essential characteristics of a specific type. 

ANOMIA:  A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called from their unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated for attachment. 

ANOMOPHYLLOUS:  Having leaves irregularly placed.  ANOMURA; ANOMOURA An`o*mu"ra, An`o*mou"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  A group of decapod Crustacea, of which the hermit crab in an example.  ANOMURAL; ANOMURAN An`o*mu"ral, An`o*mu"ran, a.  Irregular in the character of the tail or abdomen; as, the anomural crustaceans. [Written also anomoural, anomouran.] 

ANOMURAN:  One of the Anomura. 

ANOMY:  Disregard or violation of law. [R.] Glanvill. 

ANONA:  A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural order Anonaceæ, including the soursop. 

ANONACEOUS:  Pertaining to the order of plants including the soursop, custard apple, etc. 

ANONYMITY:  The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also, that which anonymous. [R.] He rigorously insisted upon the rights of anonymity. Carlyle. 

ANONYMOUS:  Nameless; of unknown name; also, of unknown /or unavowed authorship; as, an anonymous benefactor; an anonymous pamphlet or letter. 

ANONYMOUSLY:  In an anonymous manner; without a name. Swift. 

ANONYMOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being anonymous. Coleridge. 

ANOPHELES:  A genus of mosquitoes which are secondary hosts of the malaria parasites, and whose bite is the usual, if not the only, means of infecting human beings with malaria. Several species are found in the United States. They may be distinguished from the ordinary mosquitoes of the genus Culex by the long slender palpi, nearly equaling the beak in length, while those of the female Culex are very short. They also assume different positions when resting, Culex usually holding the body parallel to the surface on which it rests and keeping the head and beak bent at an angle, while Anopheles holds the body at an angle with the surface and the head and beak in line with it. Unless they become themselves infected by previously biting a subject affected with malaria, the insects cannot transmit the disease. 

ANOPHYTE:  A moss or mosslike plant which cellular stems, having usually an upward growth and distinct leaves. 

ANOPLA:  One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.  ANOPLOTHERE; ANOPLOTHERIUM An*op"lo*there, An`o*plo*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Paleon.)  A genus of extinct quadrupeds of the order Ungulata, whose were first found in the gypsum quarries near Paris; characterized by the shortness and feebleness of their canine teeth (whence the name). 

ANOPLURA:  A group of insects which includes the lice.  ANOPSIA; ANOPSY A*nop"si*a, An"op`sy, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)  Want or defect of sight; blindness.  ANOREXIA; ANOREXY An`o*rex"i*a, An"o*rex`y n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)  Want of appetite, without a loathing of food. Coxe. 

ANORMAL:  Not according to rule; abnormal. [Obs.] 

ANORN:  To adorn. [Obs.] Bp. Watson. 

ANORTHIC:  Having unequal oblique axes; as, anorthic crystals. 

ANORTHITE:  A mineral of the feldspar family, commonly occurring in small glassy crystals, also a constituent of some igneous rocks. It is a lime feldspar. See Feldspar. 

ANORTHOCLASE:  A feldspar closely related to orthoclase, but triclinic. It is chiefly a silicate of sodium, potassium, and aluminium. Sp. gr., 2.57 -- 2.60. 

ANORTHOPIA:  Distorted vision, in which straight lines appear bent. 

ANORTHOSCOPE:  An optical toy for producing amusing figures or pictures by means of two revolving disks, on one of which distorted figures are painted. 

ANORTHOSITE:  A granular igneous rock composed almost exclusively of a soda- lime feldspar, usually labradorite. 

ANOSMIA:  Loss of the sense of smell. 

ANOTHER:  Of another kind. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.  ANOTHER-GATES An*oth"er-gates`, a. Etym: [Another + gate, or gait, way. Cf. Algates.]  Of another sort. [Obs.] "Another-gates adventure." Hudibras.  ANOTHER-GUESS An*oth"er-guess, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. another-gates.]  Of another sort. [Archaic] It used to go in another-guess manner. Arbuthnot. 

ANOTTA:  See Annotto. 

ANOURA:  See Anura. 

ANOUROUS:  See Anurous.  ANOXAEMIA; ANOXEMIA An`ox*æ"mi*a, An`ox*e"mi*a, n. [NL.; Gr.  priv. + oxygen + Gr. blood.] (Med.)  An abnormal condition due to deficient aëration of the blood, as in balloon sickness, mountain sickness. -- An`ox*æ"mic, *e"mic (#), a. 

ANSA:  A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring. 

ANSATED:  Having a handle. Johnson. 

ANSERATED:  Having the extremities terminate in the heads of eagles, lions, etc.; as, an anserated cross. 

ANSERES:  A Linnæan order of aquatic birds swimming by means of webbed feet, as the duck, or of lobed feet, as the grebe. In this order were included the geese, ducks, auks, divers, gulls, petrels, etc. 

ANSERIFORMES:  A division of birds including the geese, ducks, and closely allied forms. 

ANSERINE:  Pertaining to the Anseres. 

ANSEROUS:  Resembling a goose; silly; simple. Sydney Smith. 

ANSWER:  A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; a confutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsive declaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is the usual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill. Bouvier.  Syn.  -- Reply; rejoinder; response. See Reply. 

ANSWERABLENESS:  The quality of being answerable, liable, responsible, or correspondent. 

ANSWERABLY:  In an answerable manner; in due proportion or correspondence; suitably. 

ANSWERER:  One who answers. 

ANSWERLESS:  Having no answer, or impossible to be answered. Byron.  AN 'T An 't.  An it, that is, and it or if it. See An, conj. [Obs.]  AN'T An't.  A contraction for are and am not; also used for is not; -- now usually written ain't. [Colloq. & illiterate speech.]  ANT- Ant-.  See Anti-, prefix.  -ANT -ant. Etym: [F. -ant, fr. L. -antem or -entem, the pr. p. ending; also sometimes directly from L. -antem.]  A suffix sometimes marking the agent for action; as, merchant, covenant, servant, pleasant, etc. Cf. -ent. 

ANT:  A hymenopterous insect of the Linnæan genus Formica, which is now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.  Note: Among ants, as among bees, there are neuter or working ants, besides the males and females; the former are without wings. Ants live together in swarms, usually raising hillocks of earth, variously chambered within, where they maintain a perfect system of order, store their provisions, and nurture their young. There are many species, with diverse habits, as agricultural ants, carpenter ants, honey ants, foraging ants, amazon ants, etc. The white ants or Termites belong to the Neuroptera. Ant bird (Zoöl.), one of a very extensive group of South American birds (Formicariidæ), which live on ants. The family includes many species, some of which are called ant shrikes, ant thrushes, and ant wrens.  -- Ant rice (Bot.), a species of grass (Aristida oligantha) cultivated by the agricultural ants of Texas for the sake of its seed. 

ANTA:  A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and base.  Note: Porches, when columns stand between two antæ, are called in Latin in antis. 

ANTACID:  A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent.  -- a.  Counteractive of acidity. 

ANTACRID:  Corrective of acrimony of the humors. 

ANTAEAN:  Pertaining to Antæus, a giant athlete slain by Hercules. 

ANTAGONISM:  Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things or principles.  Note: We speak of antagonism between two things, to or against a thing, and sometimes with a thing. 

ANTAGONIST:  A muscle which acts in opposition to another; as a flexor, which bends a part, is the antagonist of an extensor, which extends it.  3. (Med.)  A medicine which opposes the action of another medicine or of a poison when absorbed into the blood or tissues.  Syn.  -- Adversary; enemy; opponent; toe; competitor. See Adversary. 

ANTAGONIST:  Antagonistic; opposing; counteracting; as, antagonist schools of philosophy.  ANTAGONISTIC; ANTAGONISTICAL An*tag`o*nis"tic, An*tag`o*nis"tic*al, a.  Opposing in combat, combating; contending or acting against; as, antagonistic forces.  -- An*tag`o*nis"tic*al*ly, adv. They were distinct, adverse, even antagonistic. Milman. 

ANTAGONIZE:  To contend with; to oppose actively; to counteract. 

ANTAGONIZE:  To act in opposition. 

ANTAGONY:  Contest; opposition; antagonism. [Obs.] Antagony that is between Christ and Belial. Milton. 

ANTALGIC:  Alleviating pain.  -- n.  A medicine to alleviate pain; an anodyne. [R.]  ANTALKALI; ANTALKALINE Ant*al"ka*li, Ant*al"ka*line, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + alkali.]  Anything that neutralizes, or that counteracts an alkaline tendency in the system. Hoopplw. 

ANTALKALINE:  Of power to counteract alkalies. 

ANTAMBULACRAL:  Away from the ambulacral region. 

ANTANAGOGE:  A figure which consists in answering the charge of an adversary, by a counter charge. 

ANTAPHRODISIAC:  Capable of blunting the venereal appetite.  -- n.  Anything that quells the venereal appetite. 

ANTAPHRODITIC:  An antaphroditic medicine. 

ANTAPOPLECTIC:  Good against apoplexy.  -- n.  A medicine used against apoplexy. 

ANTARCHISM:  Opposition to government in general. [R.] 

ANTARCHIST:  One who opposes all government. [R.]  ANTARCHISTIC; ANTARCHISTICAL Ant`ar*chis"tic, Ant`ar*chis"tic*al, a.  Opposed to all human government. [R.] 

ANTARCTIC:  Opposite to the northern or arctic pole; relating to the southern pole or to the region near it, and applied especially to a circle, distant from the pole 23º 28min. Thus we say the antarctic pole, circle, ocean, region, current, etc. 

ANTARES:  The principal star in Scorpio: -- called also the Scorpion's Heart. 

ANTARTHRITIC:  A remedy against gout. 

ANTASTHMATIC:  Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma.  -- n.  A remedy for asthma.  ANT-BEAR Ant"-bear`, n. (Zoöl.)  An edentate animal of tropical America (the Tamanoir), living on ants. It belongs to the genus Myrmecophaga.  ANT BIRD Ant" bird, (Zoöl.)  See Ant bird, under Ant, n.  ANT-CATTLE Ant"-cat`tle, n. pl. (Zoöl.)  Various kinds of plant lice or aphids tended by ants for the sake of the honeydew which they secrete. See Aphips.  ANT COW Ant cow. (Zoöl.)  Any aphid from which ants obtain honeydew.  ANTE- An"te-.  A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. anti, Goth. and-, anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.: cf. Answer, Along), G. ant-, ent- (in comp.). The Latin ante is generally used in the sense of before, in regard to position, order, or time, and the Gr. opposite, or in the place of. 

ANTE:  Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante) the game begins. 

ANTE:  To put up (an ante). 

ANTEACT:  A preceding act. 

ANTEAL:  Being before, or in front. [R.] J. Fleming.  ANT-EATER Ant"-eat`er, n. (Zoöl.)  One of several species of edentates and monotremes that feed upon ants. See Ant-bear, Pangolin, Aard-vark, and Echidna. 

ANTECEDANEOUS:  Antecedent; preceding in time. "Capable of antecedaneous proof." Barrow. 

ANTECEDE:  To go before in time or place; to precede; to surpass. Sir M. Hale. 

ANTECEDENCE:  An apparent motion of a planet toward the west; retrogradation. 

ANTECEDENCY:  The state or condition of being antecedent; priority. Fothherby. 

ANTECEDENT:  The earlier events of one's life; previous principles, conduct, course, history. J. H. Newman. If the troops . . . prove worthy of their antecedents, the victory is surely ours. Gen. G. McClellan.  4. (Gram.)  The noun to which a relative refers; as, in the sentence "Solomon was the prince who built the temple," prince is the antecedent of who.  5. (Logic) (a) The first or conditional part of a hypothetical proposition; as, If the earth is fixed, the sun must move. (b) The first of the two propositions which constitute an enthymeme or contracted syllogism; as, Every man is mortal; therefore the king must die.  6. (Math.)  The first of the two terms of a ratio; the first or third of the four terms of a proportion. In the ratio a:b, a is the antecedent, and b the consequent. 

ANTECEDENTLY:  Previously; before in time; at a time preceding; as, antecedently to conversion. Barrow. 

ANTECHAPEL:  The outer part of the west end of a collegiate or other chapel. Shipley. 

ANTECIANS:  See Ant. 

ANTECOMMUNION:  A name given to that part of the Anglican liturgy for the communion, which precedes the consecration of the elements. 

ANTECURSOR:  A forerunner; a precursor. [Obs.] 

ANTEDILUVIAL:  Before the flood, or Deluge, in Noah's time. 

ANTEDILUVIAN:  Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time; hence, antiquated; as, an antediluvian vehicle.  -- n.  One who lived before the Deluge. 

ANTEFACT:  Something done before another act. [Obs.] 

ANTEFLEXION:  A displacement forward of an organ, esp. the uterus, in such manner that its axis is bent upon itself. T. G. Thomas.  ANT EGG Ant" egg`.  One of the small white egg-shaped pupæ or cocoons of the ant, often seen in or about ant-hills, and popularly supposed to be eggs. 

ANTELOPE:  One of a group of ruminant quadrupeds, intermediate between the deer and the goat. The horns are usually annulated, or ringed. There are many species in Africa and Asia. The antelope and wolf both fierce and fell. Spenser.  Note: The common or bezoar antelope of India is Antilope bezoartica. The chamois of the Alps, the gazelle, the addax, and the eland are other species. See Gazelle. The pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra Americana) is found in the Rocky Mountains. See Pronghorn. 

ANTELUCAN:  Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies of Christians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in the morning. "Antelucan worship." De Quincey. 

ANTEMERIDIAN:  Being before noon; in or pertaining to the forenoon. (Abbrev. a. m.) 

ANTEMETIC:  Tending to check vomiting.  -- n.  A remedy to check or allay vomiting.  ANTE MORTEM An`te mor"tem. [L.]  Before death; -- generally used adjectivelly; as, an ante- mortem statement; ante-mortem examination.   The ante-mortem statement, or dying declaration made in view of death, by one injured, as to the cause and manner of the injury, is often receivable in evidence against one charged with causing the death. 

ANTEMOSAIC:  Being before the time of Moses. 

ANTEMUNDANE:  Being or occurring before the creation of the world. Young. 

ANTEMURAL:  An outwork of a strong, high wall, with turrets, in front gateway (as of an old castle), for defending the entrance. 

ANTENATAL:  Before birth. Shelley. 

ANTENICENE:  Of or in the Christian church or era, anterior to the first council of Nice, held a. d. 325; as, antenicene faith. 

ANTENNA:  A movable, articulated organ of sensation, attached to the heads of insects and Crustacea. There are two in the former, and usually four in the latter. They are used as organs of touch, and in some species of Crustacea the cavity of the ear is situated near the basal joint. In insects, they are popularly called horns, and also feelers. The term in also applied to similar organs on the heads of other arthropods and of annelids. 

ANTENNAL:  Belonging to the antennæ. Owen. 

ANTENNIFEROUS:  Bearing or having antennæ. 

ANTENNIFORM:  Shaped like antennæ. 

ANTENNULE:  A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennæ or feelers of Crustacea. 

ANTENUMBER:  A number that precedes another. [R.] Bacon. 

ANTENUPTIAL:  Preceding marriage; as, an antenuptial agreement. Kent. 

ANTEORBITAL:  Same as Antorbital. 

ANTEPASCHAL:  Pertaining to the time before the Passover, or before Easter. 

ANTEPAST:  A foretaste. Antepasts of joy and comforts. Jer. Taylor. 

ANTEPENDIUM:  The hangings or screen in front of the altar; an altar cloth; the frontal. Smollett.  ANTEPENULT; ANTEPENULTIMA An`te*pe"nult, An`te*pe*nult"i*ma, n. Etym: [L. antepaenultima (sc. syllaba) antepenultimate; ante before + paenultimus the last but one; paene almost + ultimus last.] (Pros.)  The last syllable of a word except two, as -syl in monosyllable. 

ANTEPENULTIMATE:  Of or pertaining to the last syllable but two.  -- n.  The antepenult. 

ANTEPHIALTIC:  Good against nightmare.  -- n.  A remedy nightmare. Dunglison. 

ANTEPILEPTIC:  Good against epilepsy.  -- n.  A medicine for epilepsy. 

ANTEPONE:  To put before; to prefer. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ANTEPORT:  An outer port, gate, or door. 

ANTEPORTICO:  An outer porch or vestibule. 

ANTEPOSITION:  The placing of a before another, which, by ordinary rules, ought to follow it. 

ANTEPRANDIAL:  Preceding dinner. 

ANTEPREDICAMENT:  A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments and categories, such as definitions of common terms. Chambers. 

ANTERIORITY:  The state of being anterior or preceding in time or in situation; priority. Pope. 

ANTERIORLY:  In an anterior manner; before.  ANTERO- An"te*ro-.  A combining form meaning anterior, front; as, antero-posterior, front and back; antero-lateral, front side, anterior and at the side. 

ANTEROOM:  A room before, or forming an entrance to, another; a waiting room.  ANTES; ANTAE An"tes, n. pl. Antæ.  See Anta. 

ANTESTATURE:  A small intrenchment or work of palisades, or of sacks of earth. 

ANTESTOMACH:  A cavity which leads into the stomach, as in birds. Ray. 

ANTETEMPLE:  The portico, or narthex in an ancient temple or church. 

ANTEVERSION:  A displacement of an organ, esp. of the uterus, in such manner that its whole axis is directed further forward than usual. 

ANTEVERT:  To displace by anteversion. 

ANTHELION:  A halo opposite the sun, consisting of a colored ring or rings around the shadow of the spectator's own head, as projected on a cloud or on an opposite fog bank. 

ANTHELIX:  Same as Antihelix. 

ANTHELMINTIC:  Good against intestinal worms.  -- An anthelmintic remedy. [Written also anthelminthic.] 

ANTHEM:  To celebrate with anthems. [Poet.] Sweet birds antheming the morn. Keats. 

ANTHEMION:  A floral ornament. See Palmette. 

ANTHEMIS:  Chamomile; a genus of composite, herbaceous plants. 

ANTHEMWISE:  Alternately. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ANTHER:  That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizing dust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of the ovary.  -- An"ther*al, a. 

ANTHERIDIUM:  The male reproductive apparatus in the lower, consisting of a cell or other cavity in which spermatozoids are produced; -- called also spermary.  -- An`ther*id"i*al, a. 

ANTHERIFORM:  Shaped like an anther; anther-shaped. 

ANTHEROGENOUS:  Transformed from anthers, as the petals of a double flower. 

ANTHEROID:  Resembling an anther.  ANTHEROZOID; ANTHEROZOOID An`ther*o*zoid, An`ther*o*zoo"id, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid. See Zooid.] (Bot.)  One of the mobile male reproductive bodies in the antheridia of cryptogams. 

ANTHESIS:  The period or state of full expansion in a flower. Gray.  ANT-HILL Ant"-hill, n. (Zoöl.)  A mound thrown up by ants or by termites in forming their nests. 

ANTHOBIAN:  A beetle which feeds on flowers. 

ANTHOBRANCHIA:  A division of nudibranchiate Mollusca, in which the gills form a wreath or cluster upon the posterior part of the back. See Nudibranchiata, and Doris. 

ANTHOCARPOUS:  Having some portion of the floral envelopes attached to the pericarp to form the fruit, as in the checkerberry, the mulberry, and the pineapple. 

ANTHOCYANIN:  Same as Anthokyan. 

ANTHODIUM:  The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many florets are gathered into a involucrate head. 

ANTHOGRAPHY:  A description of flowers. 

ANTHOID:  Resembling a flower; flowerlike. 

ANTHOKYAN:  The blue coloring matter of certain flowers. Same as Cyanin. 

ANTHOLITE:  A fossil plant, like a petrified flower. 

ANTHOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to anthology; consisting of beautiful extracts from different authors, especially the poets. He published a geographical and anthological description of all empires and kingdoms . . . in this terrestrial globe. Wood. 

ANTHOLOGIST:  One who compiles an anthology. 

ANTHOLOGY:  A service book containing a selection of pieces for the festival services. 

ANTHOMANIA:  A extravagant fondness for flowers. [R.]  ANTHONY'S FIRE An"tho*ny's Fire`.  See Saint Anthony's Fire, under Saint. 

ANTHOPHAGOUS:  Eating flowers; -- said of certain insects. 

ANTHOPHILOUS:  Lit., fond of flowers; hence, feeding upon, or living among, flowers. 

ANTHOPHORE:  The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx and corolla, as in the Pink family. Gray. 

ANTHOPHOROUS:  Flower bearing; supporting the flower. 

ANTHOPHYLLITE:  A mineral of the hornblende group, of a yellowish gray or clove brown color.  -- An`tho*phyl*lit"ic, a. 

ANTHORISM:  A description or definition contrary to that which is given by the adverse party. [R.] 

ANTHOTAXY:  The arrangement of flowers in a cluster; the science of the relative position of flowers; inflorescence. 

ANTHOZOA:  The class of the Coelenterata which includes the corals and sea anemones. The three principal groups or orders are Acyonaria, Actinaria, and Madreporaria. 

ANTHOZOAN:  Pertaining to the Anthozoa.  -- n.  One of the Anthozoa. 

ANTHOZOIC:  Of or pertaining to the Anthozoa. 

ANTHRACENE:  A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompanies naphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar. Its chief use is in the artificial production of alizarin. [Written also anthracin.]  ANTHRACENE OIL An"thra*cene oil.  A heavy green oil (partially solidifying on cooling), which distills over from coal tar at a temperature above 270º. It is the principal source of anthracene. 

ANTHRACIC:  Of or relating to anthrax; as, anthracic blood. 

ANTHRACIFEROUS:  Yielding anthracite; as, anthraciferous strata. 

ANTHRACITE:  A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster, differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, in consequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame. The purer specimens consist almost wholly of carbon. Also called glance coal and blind coal. 

ANTHRACITIC:  Of, pertaining to, or like, anthracite; as, anthracitic formations. 

ANTHRACNOSE:  Any one of several fungus diseases, caused by parasitic species of the series Melanconiales, attacking the bean, grape, melon, cotton, and other plants. In the case of the grape, brown concave spots are formed on the stem and fruit, and the disease is called bird's-eye rot. 

ANTHRACOID:  Resembling anthrax in action; of the nature of anthrax; as, an anthracoid microbe. 

ANTHRACOMANCY:  Divination by inspecting a burning coal. 

ANTHRACOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the amount of carbonic acid in a mixture. 

ANTHRACOMETRIC:  Of or pertaining to an anthracometer. 

ANTHRACONITE:  A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell when rubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone. 

ANTHRACOSIS:  A chronic lung disease, common among coal miners, due to the inhalation of coal dust; -- called also collier's lung and miner's phthisis. 

ANTHRAQUINONE:  A hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2O2.C6H4, subliming in shining yellow needles. It is obtained by oxidation of anthracene. 

ANTHRAX:  A microscopic, bacterial organism (Bacillus anthracis), resembling transparent rods. [See Illust. under Bacillus.]  3. An infectious disease of cattle and sheep. It is ascribed to the presence of a rod-shaped bacterium (Bacillus anthracis), the spores of which constitute the contagious matter. It may be transmitted to man by inoculation. The spleen becomes greatly enlarged and filled with bacteria. Called also splenic fever.  ANTHRAX VACCINE An"thrax vac"cine. (Veter.)  A fluid vaccine obtained by growing a bacterium (Bacterium anthracis) in beef broth. It is used to immunize animals, esp. cattle. 

ANTHRENUS:  A genus of small beetles, several of which, in the larval state, are very destructive to woolen goods, fur, etc. The common "museum pest" is A. varius; the carpet beetle is A. scrophulariæ. The larvæ are commonly confounded with moths.  ANTHROPIC; ANTHROPICAL An*throp"ic, An*throp"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)  Like or related to man; human. [R.] Owen. 

ANTHROPIDAE:  The group that includes man only. 

ANTHROPOCENTRIC:  Assuming man as the center or ultimate end; -- applied to theories of the universe or of any part of it, as the solar system. Draper. 

ANTHROPOGENIC:  Of or pertaining to anthropogeny. 

ANTHROPOGENY:  The science or study of human generation, or the origin and development of man. 

ANTHROPOGEOGRAPHY:  The science of the human species as to geographical distribution and environment. Broadly, it includes industrial, commercial, and political geography, and that part of ethnology which deals with distribution and physical environment. -- An`thro*po*ge*og"ra*pher (#), n. -- An`thro*po*ge`o*graph"ic*al (#), a. 

ANTHROPOGLOT:  An animal which has a tongue resembling that of man, as the parrot. 

ANTHROPOGRAPHY:  That branch of anthropology which treats of the actual distribution of the human race in its different divisions, as distinguished by physical character, language, institutions, and customs, in contradistinction to ethnography, which treats historically of the origin and filiation of races and nations. P. Cyc. 

ANTHROPOID:  Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as the ourang or gorilla.  -- n.  An anthropoid ape. 

ANTHROPOIDAL:  Anthropoid. 

ANTHROPOIDEA:  The suborder of primates which includes the monkeys, apes, and man. 

ANTHROPOLATRY:  Man worship. 

ANTHROPOLITE:  A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.  ANTHROPOLOGIC; ANTHROPOLOGICAL An`thro*po*log"ic, An`thro*po*log"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to anthropology; belonging to the nature of man. "Anthropologic wisdom." Kingsley.  -- An`thro*po*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ANTHROPOLOGIST:  One who is versed in anthropology. 

ANTHROPOMANCY:  Divination by the entrails of human being.  ANTHROPOMETRIC; ANTHROPOMETRICAL An`thro*po*met"ric, An`thro*po*met"ric*al, a.  Pertaining to anthropometry. 

ANTHROPOMETRY:  Measurement of the height and other dimensions of human beings, especially at different ages, or in different races, occupations, etc. Dunglison. 

ANTHROPOMORPHA:  The manlike, or anthropoid, apes. 

ANTHROPOMORPHIC:  Of or pertaining to anthromorphism. Hadley.  -- An`thro*po*mor"phic*al*ly, adv. 

ANTHROPOMORPHIST:  One who attributes the human form or other human attributes to the Deity or to anything not human. 

ANTHROPOMORPHITE:  One who ascribes a human form or human attributes to the Deity or to a polytheistic deity. Taylor. Specifically, one of a sect of ancient heretics who believed that God has a human form, etc. Tillotson. 

ANTHROPOMORPHITIC:  to anthropomorphism. Kitto. 

ANTHROPOMORPHITISM:  Anthropomorphism. Wordsworth. 

ANTHROPOMORPHIZE:  To attribute a human form or personality to. You may see imaginative children every day anthropomorphizing. Lowell. 

ANTHROPOMORPHOLOGY:  The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings. 

ANTHROPOMORPHOSIS:  Transformation into the form of a human being. 

ANTHROPOMORPHOUS:  Having the figure of, or resemblance to, a man; as, an anthromorphous plant. "Anthromorphous apes." Darwin.  ANTHROPONOMICS; ANTHROPONOMY An`thro*po*nom"ics, An`thro*pon"o*my, n. [Gr.  man +  usage, law, rule.]  The science of the laws of the development of the human organism in relation to other organisms and to environment. -- An`thro*po*nom"ic*al (#), a.  ANTHROPOPATHIC; ANTHROPOPATHICAL An`thro*po*path"ic, An`thro*po*path"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to anthropopathy. [R.] -- An`thro*po*path"ic*al*ly, adv. The daring anthropopathic imagery by which the prophets often represent God as chiding, upbraiding, threatening. H. Rogers.  ANTHROPOPATHISM; ANTHROPOPATHY An`thro*pop"a*thism, An`thro*pop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr.  The ascription of human feelings or passions to God, or to a polytheistic deity. In its recoil from the gross anthropopathy of the vulgar notions, it falls into the vacuum of absolute apathy. Hare. 

ANTHROPOPATHITE:  One who ascribes human feelings to deity. 

ANTHROPOPHAGI:  Man eaters; cannibals. Shak.  ANTHROPOPHAGIC; ANTHROPOPHAGICAL An`thro*po*phag"ic, An`thro*po*phag"ic*al, a.  Relating to cannibalism or anthropophagy. 

ANTHROPOPHAGINIAN:  One who east human flesh. [Ludicrous] Shak. 

ANTHROPOPHAGITE:  A cannibal. W. Taylor. 

ANTHROPOPHAGOUS:  Feeding on human flesh; cannibal. 

ANTHROPOPHAGY:  The eating of human flesh; cannibalism. 

ANTHROPOPHUISM:  Human nature. [R.] Gladstone. 

ANTHROPOSCOPY:  The art of discovering or judging of a man's character, passions. and inclinations from a study of his visible features. [R.] 

ANTHROPOSOPHY:  Knowledge of the nature of man; hence, human wisdom. 

ANTHROPOTOMICAL:  Pertaining to anthropotomy, or the dissection of human bodies. 

ANTHROPOTOMIST:  One who is versed in anthropotomy, or human anatomy. 

ANTHROPOTOMY:  The anatomy or dissection of the human body; androtomy. Owen. 

ANTHYPNOTIC:  See Antihypnotic. 

ANTHYPOCHONDRIAC:  See Antihypochondriac. 

ANTHYSTERIC:  See Antihysteric. 

ANTI:  A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, or in place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It is often shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic. 

ANTIAE:  The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of some birds; the frontal points. 

ANTIALBUMID:  A body formed from albumin by pancreatic and gastric digestion. It is convertible into antipeptone. 

ANTIALBUMOSE:  See Albumose.  ANTI-AMERICAN An`ti-A*mer"i*can, a.  Opposed to the Americans, their aims, or interests, or to the genius of American institutions. Marshall. 

ANTIAPHRODISIAC:  Same as Antaphrodisiac. 

ANTIAPOPLECTIC:  Same as Antapoplectic. 

ANTIAR:  A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of one species of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria). 

ANTIARIN:  A poisonous principle obtained from antiar. Watts. 

ANTIASTHMATIC:  Same as Antasthmatic. 

ANTIATTRITION:  Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compound lubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, with some greasy material; antifriction grease. 

ANTIBACCHIUS:  A foot of three syllables, the first two long, and the last short. 

ANTIBILLOUS:  Counteractive of bilious complaints; tending to relieve biliousness. 

ANTIBODY:  Any of various bodies or substances in the blood which act in antagonism to harmful foreign bodies, as toxins or the bacteria producing the toxins. Normal blood serum apparently contains variousantibodies, and the introduction of toxins or of foreign cells also results in the development of their specific antibodies. 

ANTIBRACHIAL:  Of or pertaining to the antibrachium, or forearm. 

ANTIBRACHIUM:  That part of the fore limb between the brachium and the carpus; the forearm. 

ANTIBROMIC:  An agent that destroys offensive smells; a deodorizer. 

ANTIBUBONIC:  Good or used against bubonic plague; as, antibubonic serum, obtained from immunized horses; antibubonic vaccine, a sterilized bouillon culture of the plague bacillus; antibubonic measures. 

ANTIBURGHER:  One who seceded from the Burghers (1747), deeming it improper to take the Burgess oath. 

ANTIC:  "Lords of antic fame." Phaer.  2. Odd; fantastic; fanciful; grotesque; ludicrous. The antic postures of a merry-andrew. Addison. The Saxons . . . worshiped many idols, barbarous in name, some monstrous, all antic for shape. Fuller. 

ANTIC:  A grotesque representation. [Obs.]  5. An antimask. [Obs. or R.] Performed by knights and ladies of his court In nature of an antic. Ford. 

ANTIC:  To make appear like a buffoon. [Obs.] Shak. 

ANTIC:  To perform antics. 

ANTICATARRHAL:  Efficacious against catarrh.  -- n.  An anticatarrhal remedy. 

ANTICATHODE:  The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode. Upon it the cathode rays impinge. 

ANTICAUSODIC:  Same as Anticausotic. 

ANTICAUSOTIC:  Good against an inflammatory fever.  -- n.  A remedy for such a fever. 

ANTICHAMBER:  See Antechamber. 

ANTICHLOR:  Any substance (but especially sodium hyposulphite) used in removing the excess of chlorine left in paper pulp or stuffs after bleaching. 

ANTICHRIST:  A denier or opponent of Christ. Specif.: A great antagonist, person or power, expected to precede Christ's second coming. 

ANTICHRISTIAN:  Opposed to the Christian religion.  ANTICHRISTIANISM; ANTICHRISTIANITY An`ti*chris"tian*ism, An`ti*chris*tian"i*ty, n.  Opposition or contrariety to the Christian religion. 

ANTICHRISTIANLY:  In an antichristian manner. 

ANTICHRONICAL:  Deviating from the proper order of time.  -- An`ti*chron"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ANTICHRONISM:  Deviation from the true order of time; anachronism. [R.] Selden. 

ANTICHTHON:  Inhabitants of opposite hemispheres. Whewell. 

ANTICIPANT:  Anticipating; expectant; -- with of. Wakening guilt, anticipant of hell. Southey. 

ANTICIPATION:  The commencing of one or more tones of a chord with or during the chord preceding, forming a momentary discord.  Syn.  -- Preoccupation; preclusion; foretaste; prelibation; antepast; pregustation; preconception; expectation; foresight; forethought. 

ANTICIPATIVE:  Anticipating, or containing anticipation. "Anticipative of the feast to come." Cary.  -- An*tic"i*pa*tive*ly, adv. 

ANTICIPATOR:  One who anticipates. 

ANTICIPATORY:  Forecasting; of the nature of anticipation. Owen. Here is an anticipatory glance of what was to be. J. C. Shairp. 

ANTICIVIC:  Opposed to citizenship. 

ANTICIVISM:  Opposition to the body politic of citizens. [Obs.] Carlyle. 

ANTICLASTIC:  Having to opposite curvatures, that is, curved longitudinally in one direction and transversely in the opposite direction, as the surface of a saddle. 

ANTICLIMAX:  A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less important and striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax. It produces a ridiculous effect. Example: Next comes Dalhousie, the great god of war, Lieutenant-colonel to the Earl ANTICLINAL An`ti*cli"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.  Inclining or dipping in opposite directions. See Synclinal. Anticlinal line, Anticlinal axis (Geol.), a line from which strata dip in opposite directions, as from the ridge of a roof.  -- Anticlinal vertebra (Anat.), one of the dorsal vertebræ, which in many animals has an upright spine toward which the spines of the neighboring vertebræ are inclined. 

ANTICLINAL:  The crest or line in which strata slope or dip in opposite directions. 

ANTICLINE:  A structure of bedded rocks in which the beds on both sides of an axis or axial plane dip away from the axis; an anticlinal. 

ANTICLINORIUM:  The upward elevation of the crust of the earth, resulting from a geanticlinal. 

ANTICLY:  Oddly; grotesquely.  ANTIC-MASK An"tic-mask`, n.  An antimask. B. Jonson. 

ANTICNESS:  The quality of being antic. Ford. 

ANTICOHERER:  A device, one form of which consists of a scratched deposit of silver on glass, used in connection with the receiving apparatus for reading wireless signals. The electric waves falling on this contrivance increase its resistance several times. The anticoherer can be used in conjunction with a telephone. 

ANTICONSTITUTIONAL:  Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional. 

ANTICONTAGIOUS:  Opposing or destroying contagion. 

ANTICONVULSIVE:  Good against convulsions. J. Floyer. 

ANTICOR:  A dangerous inflammatory swelling of a horse's breast, just opposite the heart. 

ANTICOUS:  Facing toward the axis of the flower, as in the introrse anthers of the water lily. 

ANTICYCLONE:  A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regards direction of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, to that of a cyclone.  -- An`ti*cy*clon"ic, a.  -- An`ti*cy*clon"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ANTIDIPHTHERITIC:  Destructive to, or hindering the growth of, diphtheria bacilli. -- n.  An antidiphtheritic agent. 

ANTIDOTAL:  Having the quality an antidote; fitted to counteract the effects of poison. Sir T. Browne.  -- An"ti*do`tal*ly, adv. 

ANTIDOTARY:  Antidotal.  -- n. Antidote; also, a book of antidotes. 

ANTIDOTICAL:  Serving as an antidote.  -- An`ti*dot"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ANTIDROMOUS:  Changing the direction in the spiral sequence of leaves on a stem. 

ANTIDYSENTERIC:  Good against dysentery.  -- n.  A medicine for dysentery. 

ANTIEMETIC:  Same as Antemetic. 

ANTIEPHIALTIC:  Same as Antephialtic. 

ANTIEPILEPTIC:  Same as Antepileptic. 

ANTIFEBRILE:  Febrifuge. 

ANTIFEBRINE:  Acetanilide.  ANTI-FEDERALIST An`ti-fed"er*al*ist, n.  One of party opposed to a federative government; -- applied particularly to the party which opposed the adoption of the constitution of the United States. Pickering. 

ANTIFRICTION:  Something to lessea. Tending to lessen friction. 

ANTIGALASTIC:  Causing a diminution or a suppression of the secretion of milk.  ANTI-GALLICAN An`ti-Gal"li*can, a.  Opposed to what is Gallic or French. 

ANTIGRAPH:  A copy or transcript. 

ANTIGUGGLER:  A crooked tube of metal, to be introduced into the neck of a bottle for drawing out the liquid without disturbing the sediment or causing a gurgling noise. 

ANTIHELIX:  The curved elevation of the cartilage of the ear, within or in front of the helix. See Ear. 

ANTIHEMORRHAGIC:  Tending to stop hemorrhage.  -- n.  A remedy for hemorrhage. 

ANTIHYDROPHOBIC:  Counteracting or preventing hydrophobia.  -- n.  A remedy for hydrophobia. 

ANTIHYDROPIC:  Good against dropsy.  -- n.  A remedy for dropsy. 

ANTIHYPNOTIC:  Tending to prevent sleep.  -- n.  An antihypnotic agent. 

ANTIHYPOCHONDRIAC:  Counteractive of hypochondria.  -- n.  A remedy for hypochondria. 

ANTIHYSTERIC:  Counteracting hysteria.  -- n.  A remedy for hysteria. 

ANTIICTERIC:  Good against jaundice.  -- n.  A remedy for jaundice.  ANTI-IMPERIALISM An`ti-im*pe"ri*al*ism, n.  Opposition to imperialism; -- applied specif., in the United States, after the Spanish-American war (1898), to the attitude or principles of those opposing territorial expansion; in England, of those, often called Little Englanders, opposing the extension of the empire and the closer relation of its parts, esp. in matters of commerce and imperial defense. -- An`ti-im*pe"ri*al*ist, n. -- An`ti- im*pe`ri*al*is"tic (#), a. 

ANTILEGOMENA:  Certain books of the New Testament which were for a time not universally received, but which are now considered canonical. These are the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Epistles of James and Jude, the second Epistle of Peter, the second and third Epistles of John, and the Revelation. The undisputed books are called the Homologoumena. 

ANTILIBRATION:  A balancing; equipoise. [R.] De Quincey. 

ANTILITHIC:  Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or to destroy them when formed.  -- n.  An antilithic medicine. 

ANTILOGARITHM:  The number corresponding to a logarithm. The word has been sometimes, though rarely, used to denote the complement of a given logarithm; also the logarithmic cosine corresponding to a given logarithmic sine.  -- An`ti*log`a*rith"mic, a. 

ANTILOGOUS:  Of the contrary name or character; -- opposed to analogous. Antilogous pole (Eccl.), that pole of a crystal which becomes negatively electrified when heated. 

ANTILOGY:  A contradiction between any words or passages in an author. Sir W. Hamilton. 

ANTILOIMIC:  A remedy against the plague. Brande & C. 

ANTILOPINE:  Of or relating to the antelope. 

ANTILOQUIST:  A contradicter. [Obs.] 

ANTILOQUY:  Contradiction. [Obs.] 

ANTILYSSIC:  Antihydrophobic. 

ANTIMACASSAR:  A cover for the back or arms of a chair or sofa, etc., to prevent them from being soiled by macassar or other oil from the hair. 

ANTIMAGISTRICAL:  Opposed to the office or authority of magistrates. [Obs.] South. 

ANTIMALARIAL:  Good against malaria. 

ANTIMASK:  A secondary mask, or grotesque interlude, between the parts of a serious mask. [Written also anue.] Bacon. 

ANTIMASON:  One opposed to Freemasonry.  -- An`ti*ma*son"ic, a. 

ANTIMASONRY:  Opposition to Freemasonry. 

ANTIMEPHITIC:  Good against mephitic or deletplwious gases.  -- n.  A remedy against mephitic gases. Dunglison. 

ANTIMERE:  One of the two halves of bilaterally symmetrical animals; one of any opposite symmetrical or homotypic parts in animals and plants. 

ANTIMETABOLE:  A figure in which the same words or ideas are repeated in transposed order. 

ANTIMETATHESIS:  An antithesis in which the members are repeated in inverse order. 

ANTIMETER:  A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles. [Obs.]  ANTIMONARCHIC; ANTIMONARCHICAL An`ti*mo*nar"chic, An`ti*mo*nar"chic*al,  Opposed to monarchial government. Bp. Benson. Addison. 

ANTIMONARCHIST:  An enemy to monarchial government. 

ANTIMONATE:  A compound of antimonic acid with a base or basic radical. [Written also antimoniate.] 

ANTIMONIAL:  Of or pertaining to antimony.  -- n. (Med.)  A preparation or medicine containing antimony. Antimonial powder, a consisting of one part oxide of antimony and two parts phosphate of calcium; -- also called James's powder. 

ANTIMONIATED:  Combined or prepared with antimony; as, antimoniated tartar. 

ANTIMONIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those compounds of antimony in which this element has its highest equivalence; as, antimonic acid. 

ANTIMONIOUS:  Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those compounds of antimony in which this element has an equivalence next lower than the highest; as, antimonious acid. 

ANTIMONITE:  A compound of antimonious acid and a base or basic radical.  2. (Min.)  Stibnite. 

ANTIMONIURETED:  Combined with or containing antimony; as, antimoniureted hydrogen. [Written also antimoniuretted.] 

ANTIMONSOON:  The upper, contrary-moving current of the atmosphere over a monsoon. 

ANTIMONY:  An elementary substance, resembling a metal in its appearance and physical properties, but in its chemical relations belonging to the class of nonmetallic substances. Atomic weight, 120. Symbol, Sb.  Note: It is of tin-white color, brittle, laminated or crystalline, fusible, and vaporizable at a rather low temperature. It is used in some metallic alloys, as type metal and bell metal, and also for medical preparations, which are in general emetics or cathartics. By ancient writers, and some moderns, the term is applied to native gray ore of antimony, or stibnite (the stibium of the Romans, and the Cervantite, senarmontite, and valentinite are native oxides of antimony. 

ANTINATIONAL:  Antagonistic to one's country or nation, or to a national government. 

ANTINEPHRITIC:  Counteracting, or deemed of use in, diseases of the kidneys.  -- n.  An antinephritic remedy. 

ANTINOMIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Antinomians; opposed to the doctrine that the moral law is obligatory. 

ANTINOMIAN:  One who maintains that, under the gospel dispensation, the moral law is of no use or obligation, but that faith alone is necessary to salvation. The sect of Antinomians originated with John Agricola, in Germany, about the year 1535. Mosheim. 

ANTINOMIANISM:  The tenets or practice of Antinomians. South. 

ANTINOMIST:  An Antinomian. [R.] Bp. Sanderson. 

ANTINOMY:  A contradiction or incompatibility of thought or language; -- in the Kantian philosophy, such a contradiction as arises from the attempt to apply to the ideas of the reason, relations or attributes which are appropriate only to the facts or the concepts of experience. 

ANTIODONTALGIC:  Efficacious in curing toothache.  -- n.  A remedy for toothache. 

ANTIORGASTIC:  Tending to allay venereal excitement or desire; sedative. 

ANTIPAPAL:  Opposed to the pope or to popery. Milton. 

ANTIPARALLEL:  Running in a contrary direction. Hammond. 

ANTIPARALLELS:  Straight lines or planes which make angles in some respect opposite in character to those made by parallel lines or planes. 

ANTIPARALYTIC:  Good against paralysis.  -- n.  A medicine for paralysis. 

ANTIPARALYTICAL:  Antiparalytic. 

ANTIPASCH:  The Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.  ANTIPATHETIC; ANTIPATHETICAL An`ti*pa*thet"ic, An`ti*pa*thet"ic*al, a.  Having a natural contrariety, or constitutional aversion, to a thing; characterized by antipathy; -- often followed by to. Fuller. 

ANTIPATHIC:  Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic. 

ANTIPATHIST:  One who has an antipathy. [R.] "Antipathist of light." Coleridge. 

ANTIPATHIZE:  To feel or show antipathy. [R.] 

ANTIPATHOUS:  Having a natural contrariety; adverse; antipathetic. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

ANTIPEPTONE:  A product of gastric and pancreatic digestion, differing from hemipeptone in not being decomposed by the continued action of pancreatic juice. 

ANTIPERIODIC:  A remedy possessing the property of preventing the return of periodic paroxysms, or exacerbations, of disease, as in intermittent fevers. 

ANTIPERISTALTIC:  Opposed to, or checking motion; acting upward; -- applied to an inverted action of the intestinal tube. 

ANTIPERISTASIS:  Opposition by which the quality opposed asquires strength; resistance or reaction roused by opposition or by the action of an opposite principle or quality. 

ANTIPERISTATIC:  Pertaining to antiperistasis. 

ANTIPETALOUS:  Standing before a petal, as a stamen. 

ANTIPHARMIC:  Antidotal; alexipharmic. 

ANTIPHLOGISTIAN:  An opposer of the theory of phlogiston. 

ANTIPHLOGISTIC:  Opposed to the doctrine of phlogiston.  2. (Med.)  Counteracting inflammation. 

ANTIPHLOGISTIC:  Any medicine or diet which tends to check inflammation. Coxe. 

ANTIPHONAL:  Of or pertaining to antiphony, or alternate singing; sung alternately by a divided choir or opposite choirs. Wheatly.  -- An*tiph"o*nal*ly, adv. 

ANTIPHONAL:  A book of antiphons or anthems. 

ANTIPHONARY:  A book containing a collection of antiphons; the book in which the antiphons of the breviary, with their musical notes, are contained. 

ANTIPHONE:  The response which one side of the choir makes to the other in a chant; alternate chanting or signing. 

ANTIPHONER:  A book of antiphons. Chaucer. 

ANTIPHONIC:  Antiphonal. 

ANTIPHRASIS:  The use of words in a sense opposite to their proper meaning; as when a court of justice is called a court of vengeance.  ANTIPHRASTIC; ANTIPHRASTICAL An`ti*phras"tic, An`ti*phras"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Pertaining to antiphrasis.  -- An`ti*phras"tic*al*ly, adv. 

ANTIPHTHISIC:  Relieving or curing phthisis, or consumption.  -- n.  A medicine for phthisis. 

ANTIPHYSICAL:  Contrary to nature; unnatural. 

ANTIPHYSICAL:  Relieving flatulence; carminative. 

ANTIPLASTIC:  Preventing or checking the process of healing, or granulation. 

ANTIPODAGRIC:  Good against gout.  -- n.  A medicine for gout. 

ANTIPODE:  One of the antipodes; anything exactly opposite. In tale or history your beggar is ever the just antipode to your king. Lamb.  Note: The singular, antipode, is exceptional in formation, but has been used by good writers. Its regular English plural would be ân"tî*podes, the last syllable rhyming with abodes, and this pronunciation is sometimes heard. The plural form (originally a Latin word without a singular) is in common use, and is pronounced, after the English method of Latin, ân*tîp"o*dez. 

ANTIPODEAN:  Pertaining to the antipodes, or the opposite side of the world; antipodal. 

ANTIPOLE:  The opposite pole; anything diametrically opposed. Geo. Eliot. 

ANTIPOPE:  One who is elected, or claims to be, pope in opposition to the pope canonically chosen; esp. applied to those popes who resided at Avignon during the Great Schism. 

ANTIPSORIC:  Of use in curing the itch.  -- n.  An antipsoric remedy. 

ANTIPTOSIS:  The putting of one case for another.  ANTIPUTREFACTIVE; ANTIPUTRESCENT An`ti*pu`tre*fac"tive, An`ti*pu*tres"cent, a.  Counteracting, or preserving from, putrefaction; antiseptic. 

ANTIPYIC:  Checking or preventing suppuration.  -- n.  An antipyic medicine. 

ANTIPYRESIS:  The condition or state of being free from fever. 

ANTIPYRETIC:  Efficacious in preventing or allaying fever.  -- n.  A febrifuge. 

ANTIPYRINE:  An artificial alkaloid, believed to be efficient in abating fever. 

ANTIPYROTIC:  Good against burns or pyrosis.  -- n.  Anything of use in preventing or healing burns or pyrosis. 

ANTIQUARIAN:  Pertaining to antiquaries, or to antiquity; as, antiquarian literature. 

ANTIQUARIANISM:  Character of an antiquary; study or love of antiquities. Warburton. 

ANTIQUARIANIZE:  To act the part of an antiquary. [Colloq.] 

ANTIQUARY:  Pertaining to antiquity. [R.] "Instructed by the antiquary times." Shak. 

ANTIQUARY:  One devoted to the study of ancient times through their relics, as inscriptions, monuments, remains of ancient habitations, statues, coins, manuscripts, etc.; one who searches for and studies the relics of antiquity. 

ANTIQUATE:  To make old, or obsolete; to make antique; to make old in such a degree as to put out of use; hence, to make void, or abrogate. Christianity might reasonably introduce new laws, and antiquate or abrogate old one. Sir M. Hale. 

ANTIQUATED:  Grown old. Hence: Bygone; obsolete; out of use; old-fashioned; as, an antiquated law. "Antiquated words." Dryden. Old Janet, for so he understood his antiquated attendant was denominated. Sir W. Scott.  Syn.  -- Ancient; old; antique; obsolete. See Ancient. 

ANTIQUATEDNESS:  Quality of being antiquated. 

ANTIQUATENESS:  Antiquatedness. [Obs.] 

ANTIQUATION:  The act of making antiquated, or the state of being antiquated. Beaumont. 

ANTIQUE:  In general, anything very old; but in a more limited sense, a relic or object of ancient art; collectively, the antique, the remains of ancient art, as busts, statues, paintings, and vases. Misshapen monuments and maimed antiques. Byron. 

ANTIQUELY:  In an antique manner. 

ANTIQUENESS:  The quality of being antique; an appearance of ancient origin and workmanship. We may discover something venerable in the antiqueness of the work. Addison. 

ANTIQUIST:  An antiquary; a collector of antiques. [R.] Pinkerton. 

ANTIQUITARIAN:  An admirer of antiquity.  Note: [Used by Milton in a disparaging sense.] [Obs.] 

ANTIRACHITIC:  Good against the rickets. 

ANTIRENTER:  One opposed to the payment of rent; esp. one of those who in 1840-47 resisted the collection of rents claimed by the patroons from the settlers on certain manorial lands in the State of New York.  -- An`ti*rent"ism, n. 

ANTISABBATARIAN:  One of a sect which opposes the observance of the Christian Sabbath. 

ANTISACERDOTAL:  Hostile to priests or the priesthood. Waterland.  ANTISCIANS; ANTISCII An*tis"cians, An*tis"ci*i, n. pl. Etym: [L. antiscii, Gr.  The inhabitants of the earth, living on different sides of the equator, whose shadows at noon are cast in opposite directions. The inhabitants of the north and south temperate zones are always Antiscians. Brande & C.  ANTISCOLETIC; ANTISCOLIC An`ti*sco*let"ic, An`ti*scol"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)  Anthelmintic. 

ANTISCORBUTIC:  Counteracting scurvy.  -- n.  A remedy for scurvy. 

ANTISCORBUTICAL:  Antiscorbutic. 

ANTISCRIPTURAL:  Opposed to, or not in accordance with, the Holy Scriptures.  ANTI-SEMITISM An`ti-Sem"i*tism, n.  Opposition to, or hatred of, Semites, esp. Jews. -- An`ti- Sem"ite (#), n. -- An`ti-Sem*it"ic (#), a. 

ANTISEPALOUS:  Standing before a sepal, or calyx leaf. 

ANTISEPSIS:  Prevention of sepsis by excluding or destroying microorganisms.  ANTISEPTIC; ANTISEPTICAL An`ti*sep"tic, An`ti*sep"tic*al, a.  Counteracting or preventing putrefaction, or a putrescent tendency in the system; antiputrefactive. Antiseptic surgery, that system of surgical practice which insists upon a systematic use of antiseptics in the performance of operations and the dressing of wounds. 

ANTISEPTIC:  A substance which prevents or retards putrefaction, or destroys, or protects from, putrefactive organisms; as, salt, carbolic acid, alcohol, cinchona. 

ANTISEPTICALLY:  By means of antiseptics. 

ANTISIALAGOGUE:  Checking the flow of saliva. 

ANTISIALAGOGUE:  A remedy against excessive salivation. 

ANTISLAVERY:  Opposed to slavery.  -- n.  Opposition to slavery. 

ANTISOCIAL:  Tending to interrupt or destroy social intercourse; averse to society, or hostile to its existence; as, antisocial principles. 

ANTISOCIALIST:  One opposed to the doctrines and practices of socialists or socialism. 

ANTISOLAR:  Opposite to the sun; -- said of the point in the heavens 180º distant from the sun. 

ANTISPASMODIC:  Good against spasms.  -- n.  A medicine which prevents or allays spasms or convulsions. 

ANTISPAST:  A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and the second and third long. 

ANTISPASTIC:  An antispastic agent. 

ANTISPLENETIC:  Good as a remedy against disease of the spleen.  -- n.  An antisplenetic medicine. 

ANTISTROPHIC:  Of or pertaining to an antistrophe. 

ANTISTROPHON:  An argument retorted on an opponent. Milton. 

ANTISTRUMATIC:  Antistrumous.  -- n.  A medicine for scrofula. 

ANTISTRUMOUS:  Good against scrofulous disorders. Johnson. Wiseman. 

ANTISYPHILITIC:  Efficacious against syphilis.  -- n.  A medicine for syphilis. 

ANTITHEISM:  The doctrine of antitheists.  -- An`ti*the*is"tic, a. 

ANTITHEIST:  A disbeliever in the existence of God. 

ANTITHESIS:  An opposition or contrast of words or sentiments occurring in the same sentence; as, "The prodigal robs his heir; the miser robs himself." "He had covertly shot at Cromwell; he how openly aimed at the Queen."  2. The second of two clauses forming an antithesis.  3. Opposition; contrast. 

ANTITHET:  An antithetic or contrasted statement. Bacon.  ANTITHETIC; ANTITHETICAL An`ti*thet"ic, An`ti*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Pertaining to antithesis, or opposition of words and sentiments; containing, or of the nature of, antithesis; contrasted. 

ANTITHETICALLY:  By way antithesis.  ANTITOXIN; ANTITOXINE An`ti*tox"in, An`ti*tox"ine, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + toxin.]  A substance (sometimes the product of a specific micro-organism and sometimes naturally present in the blood or tissues of an animal), capable of producing immunity from certain diseases, or of counteracting the poisonous effects of pathogenic bacteria.  ANTI-TRADE An"ti-trade`, n.  A tropical wind blowing steadily in a direction opposite to the trade wind. 

ANTITRAGUS:  A prominence on the lower posterior portion of the concha of the external ear, opposite the tragus. See Ear. 

ANTITROCHANTER:  An articular surface on the ilium of birds against which the great trochanter of the femur plays.  ANTITROPAL; ANTITROPOUS An*tit"ro*pal, An*tit"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Bot.)  At the extremity most remote from the hilum, as the embryo, or inverted with respect to the seed, as the radicle. Lindley. 

ANTITYPAL:  Antitypical. [R.] 

ANTITYPE:  That of which the type pattern or representation; that which is represented by the type or symbol. 

ANTITYPICAL:  Of or pertaining to an antitype; explaining the type.  -- An`ti*typ"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ANTITYPOUS:  Resisting blows; hard. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

ANTITYPY:  Opposition or resistance of matter to force. [R.] Sir W. Hamilton. 

ANTIVACCINATION:  Opposition to vaccination. London Times. 

ANTIVACCINATIONIST:  An antivaccinist. 

ANTIVACCINIST:  One opposed to vaccination. 

ANTIVARIOLOUS:  Preventing the contagion of smallpox. 

ANTIVENEREAL:  Good against venereal poison; antisyphilitic. 

ANTIVENIN:  The serum of blood rendered antitoxic to a venom by repeated injections of small doses of the venom. 

ANTIVIVISECTION:  Opposition to vivisection. 

ANTIVIVISECTIONIST:  One opposed to vivisection 

ANTIZYMIC:  Preventing fermentation. 

ANTIZYMOTIC:  Preventing fermentation or decomposition.  -- n.  An agent so used. 

ANTLER:  The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervine animal, as of a stag. Huge stags with sixteen antlers. Macaulay.  Note: The branch next to the head is called the brow antler, and the branch next above, the bez antler, or bay antler. The main stem is the beam, and the branches are often called tynes. Antlers are deciduous bony (not horny) growths, and are covered with a periosteum while growing. See Velvet. Antler moth (Zoöl.), a destructive European moth (Cerapteryx graminis), which devastates grass lands. 

ANTLERED:  Furnished with antlers. The antlered stag. Cowper. 

ANTLIA:  The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. See Lepidoptera.  ANT-LION Ant"-li`on, n. (Zoöl.)  A neuropterous insect, the larva of which makes in the sand a pitfall to capture ants, etc. The common American species is Myrmeleon obsoletus, the European is M. formicarius.  ANTOECI; ANTOECIANS An*toe"ci, An*toe"*cians, n. pl. Etym: [NL. antoeci, fr. Gr. pl.  Those who live under the same meridian, but on opposite parallels of latitude, north and south of the equator. 

ANTONOMASIA:  The use of some epithet or the name of some office, dignity, or the like, instead of the proper name of the person; as when his majesty is used for a king, or when, instead of Aristotle, we say, the philosopher; or, conversely, the use of a proper name instead of an appellative, as when a wise man is called a Solomon, or an eminent orator a Cicero. 

ANTONOMASTIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, antonomasia.  -- An`to*no*mas"tic*al*ly, adv. 

ANTONOMASY:  Antonomasia. 

ANTONYM:  A word of opposite meaning; a counterterm; -- used as a correlative of synonym. [R.] C. J. Smith. 

ANTORBITAL:  Pertaining to, or situated in, the region of the front of the orbit.  -- n.  The antorbital bone. 

ANTORGASTIC:  See Antiorgastic. 

ANTOZONE:  A compound formerly supposed to be modification of oxygen, but now known to be hydrogen dioxide; -- so called because apparently antagonistic to ozone, converting it into ordinary oxygen. 

ANTRAL:  Relating to an antrum. 

ANTRE:  A cavern. [Obs.] Shak. 

ANTRORSE:  Forward or upward in direction. Gray. 

ANTROVERT:  To bend forward. [R.] Owen. 

ANTRUM:  A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus. Huxley. 

ANTRUSTION:  A vassal or voluntary follower of Frankish princes in their enterprises.  ANT THRUSH Ant" thrush`. (Zoöl.) (a) One of several species of tropical birds, of the Old World, of the genus Pitta, somewhat resembling the thrushes, and feeding chiefly on ants. (b) See Ant bird, under Ant. 

ANUBIS:  An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits, represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox. 

ANURA:  One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence of a tail, as the frogs and toads. [Written also anoura.] 

ANUROUS:  Destitute of a tail, as the frogs and toads. [Also written anourous.] 

ANURY:  Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury. 

ANUS:  The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through which the excrements are expelled. 

ANVIL:  the incus. See Incus. To be on the anvil, to be in a state of discussion, formation, or preparation, as when a scheme or measure is forming, but not matured. Swift. 

ANVIL:  To form or shape on an anvil; to hammer out; as, anviled armor. Beau. & Fl. 

ANXIETUDE:  The state of being anxious; anxiety. [R.] 

ANXIETY:  A state of restlessness and agitation, often with general indisposition and a distressing sense of oppression at the epigastrium. Dunglison.  Syn.  -- Care; solicitude; foreboding; uneasiness; perplexity; disquietude; disquiet; trouble; apprehension; restlessness. See Care. 

ANXIOUSLY:  In an anxious manner; with painful uncertainty; solicitously. 

ANXIOUSNESS:  The quality of being anxious; great solicitude; anxiety. 

ANY:  To any extent; in any degree; at all. You are not to go loose any longer. Shak. Before you go any farther. Steele. 

ANYHOW:  In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event. Anyhow, it must be acknowledged to be not a simple selforiginated error. J. H. Newman. Anyhow, the languages of the two nations were closely allied. E. A. Freeman. 

ANYONE:  One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody.  Note: [Commonly written as two words.] 

ANYTHING:  In any measure; anywise; at all. Mine old good will and hearty affection towards you is not . . . anything at all quailed. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

ANYTHINGARIAN:  One who holds to no particular creed or dogma.  ANYWAY; ANYWAYS A"ny*way, A"ny*ways, adv.  Anywise; at all. Tennyson. Southey. 

ANYWHERE:  In any place. Udall. 

ANYWHITHER:  To or towards any place. [Archaic] De Foe. 

ANYWISE:  In any wise or way; at all. "Anywise essential." Burke. 

AONIAN:  Pertaining to Aonia, Boeotia, or to the Muses, who were supposed to dwell there. Aonian fount, the fountain of Aganippe, at the foot of Mount Helicon, not far from Thebes, and sacred to the Muses. 

AORIST:  A tense in the Greek language, which expresses an action as completed in past time, but leaves it, in other respects, wholly indeterminate. 

AORISTIC:  Indefinite; pertaining to the aorist tense. 

AORTA:  The great artery which carries the blood from the heart to all parts of the body except the lungs; the main trunk of the arterial system.  Note: In fishes and the early stages of all higher vertebrates the aorta divides near its origin into several branches (the aortic arches) which pass in pairs round the oesophagus and unite to form the systemic aorta. One or more pairs of these arches persist in amphibia and reptiles, but only one arch in birds and mammals, this being on the right side in the former, and on the left in the latter. 

AORTIC:  Of or pertaining to the aorta. 

AORTITIS:  Inflammation of the aorta. 

AOUDAD:  An African sheeplike quadruped (the Ammotragus tragelaphus) having a long mane on the breast and fore legs. It is, perhaps, the chamois of the Old Testament. 

APACE:  With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily. His dewy locks did drop with brine apace. Spenser. A visible triumph of the gospel drawapace. I. Taylor. 

APACHES:  A group of nomadic North American Indians including several tribes native of Arizona, New Mexico, etc. 

APAGOGE:  An indirect argument which proves a thing by showing the impossibility or absurdity of the contrary.  APAGOGIC; APAGOGICAL Ap`a*gog"ic, Ap`a*gog"ic*al, a.  Proving indirectly, by showing the absurdity, or impossibility of the contrary. Bp. Berkeley. 

APAID:  Paid; pleased. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

APAIR:  To impair or become impaired; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

APALACHIAN:  See Appalachian. 

APANAGE:  Same as Appanage. 

APANTHROPY:  An aversion to the company of men; a love of solitude.  APAR; APARA A"par, A"pa*ra, n. Etym: [Native name apara.] (Zoöl.)  See Mataco. 

APAREJO:  A kind of pack saddle used in the American military service and among the Spanish Americans. It is made of leather stuffed with hay, moss, or the like. 

APARITHMESIS:  Enumeration of parts or particulars. 

APARTMENT:  A building comprising a number of suites designed for separate housekeeping tenements, but having conveniences, such as heat, light, elevator service, etc., furnished in common; -- often distinguished in the United States from a flat house. 

APARTNESS:  The quality of standing apart. 

APASTRON:  That point in the orbit of a double star where the smaller star is farthest from its primary.  APATHETIC; APATHETICAL Ap`a*thet"ic, Ap`a*thet"ic*al a. Etym: [See Apathy.]  Void of feeling; not susceptible of deep emotion; passionless; indifferent. 

APATHETICALLY:  In an apathetic manner. 

APATHIST:  One who is destitute of feeling. 

APATHISTICAL:  Apathetic; une motional. [R.] 

APATHY:  Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement; dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied to the mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference, incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertion by pleasure, pain, or passion. "The apathy of despair." Macaulay. A certain apathy or sluggishness in his nature which led him . . . to leave events to take their own course. Prescott. According to the Stoics, apathy meant the extinction of the passions by the ascendency of reason. Fleming.  Note: In the first ages of the church, the Christians adopted the term to express a contempt of earthly concerns.  Syn.  -- Insensibility; unfeelingness; indifference; unconcern; stoicism; supineness; sluggishness. 

APATITE:  Native phosphate of lime, occurring usually in six-sided prisms, color often pale green, transparent or translucent. 

APAUME:  See Appaum. 

APE:  A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadæ, having teeth of the same number and form as in man, having teeth of the same number and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheek pouches. The name is applied esp. to species of the genus Hylobates, and is sometimes used as a general term for all Quadrumana. The higher forms, the gorilla, chimpanzee, and ourang, are often called anthropoid apes or man apes.  Note: The ape of the Old Testament was prqobably the rhesus monkey of India, and allied forms.  2. One who imitates servilely (in allusion to the manners of the ape); a mimic. Byron.  3. A dupe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

APE:  To mimic, as an ape imitates human actions; to imitate or follow servilely or irrationally. "How he apes his sire." Addison. The people of England will not ape the fashions they have never tried. Burke. 

APEAK:  In a vertical line. The anchor in apeak, when the cable has been sufficiently hove in to bring the ship over it, and the ship is them said to be hove apeak. [Spelt also apeek.] 

APEHOOD:  The state of being an ape. 

APELLOUS:  Destitute of skin. Brande & C. 

APENNINE:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Apennines, a chain of mountains extending through Italy. 

APEPSY:  Defective digestion, indigestion. Coxe. 

APER:  One who apes. 

APERCU:  A first view or glance, or the perception or estimation so obtained; an immediate apprehension or insight, appreciative rather than analytic.  The main object being to develop the several aperçus or insights which furnish the method of such psychology. W. T. Harris.  A series of partial and more or less disparate aperçus or outlooks; each for itself a center of experience. James Ward.  2.  Hence, a brief or detached view; conspectus; sketch. 

APEREA:  The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea). 

APERIENT:  Gently opening the bowels; laxative.  -- n.  An aperient medicine or food. Arbuthnot. 

APERITIVE:  Serving to open; aperient. Harvey. 

APERT:  Open; ev [Archaic] Fotherby. 

APERT:  Openly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

APERTION:  The act of opening; an opening; an aperture. [Archaic] Wiseman. 

APERTLY:  Openly; clearly. [Archaic] 

APERTNESS:  Openness; frankness. [Archaic] 

APERTURE:  The diameter of the exposed part of the object glass of a telescope or other optical instrument; as, a telescope of four-inch aperture.  Note: The aperture of microscopes is often expressed in degrees, called also the angular aperture, which signifies the angular breadth of the pencil of light which the instrument transmits from the object or point viewed; as, a microscope of 100º aperture. 

APETALOUS:  Having no petals, or flower leaves. [See Illust. under Anther]. 

APETALOUSNESS:  The state of being apetalous. 

APEX:  The end or edge of a vein nearest the surface. [U.S.] Apex of the earth's motion (Astron.), that point of the heavens toward which the earth is moving in its orbit. 

APHAERESIS:  Same as Apheresis. 

APHAKIA:  An anomalous state of refraction caused by the absence of the crystalline lens, as after operations for cataract. The remedy is the use of powerful convex lenses. Dunglison. 

APHAKIAL:  Pertaining to aphakia; as, aphakial eyes. 

APHANIPTERA:  A group of wingless insects, of which the flea in the type. See Flea. 

APHANIPTEROUS:  Of or pertaining to the Aphaniptera. 

APHANITE:  A very compact, dark-colored 

APHANITIC:  Resembling aphanite; having a very fine-grained structure.  APHASIA; APHASY A*pha"si*a, Aph"a*sy, n. Etym: [NL. aphasia, Gr. aphasie.] (Med.)  Loss of the power of speech, or of the appropriate use of words, the vocal organs remaining intact, and the intelligence being preserved. It is dependent on injury or disease of the brain. 

APHASIC:  Pertaining to, or affected by, aphasia; speechless. 

APHELION:  That point of a planet's or comet's orbit which is most distant from the sun, the opposite point being the perihelion. 

APHELIOTROPIC:  Turning away from the sun; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin. 

APHELIOTROPISM:  The habit of bending from the sunlight; -- said of certain plants. 

APHEMIA:  Loss of the power of speaking, while retaining the power of writing; -- a disorder of cerebral origin. 

APHERESIS:  The dropping of a letter or syllable from the beginning of a word; e. g., cute for acute.  2. (Surg.)  An operation by which any part is separated from the rest. [Obs.] Dunglison. 

APHESIS:  The loss of a short unaccented vowel at the beginning of a word; -- the result of a phonetic process; as, squire for esquire. New Eng. Dict. 

APHETIC:  Shortened by dropping a letter or a syllable from the beginning of a word; as, an aphetic word or form.  -- A*phet"ic*al*ly, adv. New Eng. Dict. 

APHETISM:  An aphetized form of a word. New Eng. Dict. 

APHETIZE:  To shorten by aphesis. These words . . . have been aphetized. New Eng. Dict. 

APHID:  One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian. 

APHIDES:  See Aphis. 

APHIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the family Aphidæ.  -- n.  One of the aphides; an aphid. 

APHIDIVOROUS:  Devouring aphides; aphidophagous. 

APHIDOPHAGOUS:  Feeding upon aphides, or plant lice, as do beetles of the family Coccinellidæ. 

APHILANTHROPY:  Want of love to mankind; -- the opposite of philanthropy. Coxe. 

APHIS:  A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and family Aphidæ, including numerous species known as plant lice and green flies.  Note: Besides the true males and females, there is a race of wingless asexual individuals which have the power of producing living young in rapid succession, and these in turn may produce others of the same kind for several generations, before sexual individuals appear. They suck the sap of plants by means of a tubular proboscis, and owing to the wonderful rapidity of their reproduction become very destructive to vegetation. Many of the Aphidæ excrete honeydew from two tubes near the end of the body.  APHIS LION A"phis li"on. (Zoöl.)  The larva of the lacewinged flies (Chrysopa), which feeds voraciously upon aphids. The name is also applied to the larvæ of the ladybugs (Coccinella). 

APHLOGISTIC:  Flameless; as, an aphlogistic lamp, in which a coil of wire is kept in a state of continued ignition by alcohol, without flame.  APHONIA; APHONY A*pho"ni*a, Aph"o*ny, n. Etym: [NL. aphonia, Gr. aphonie.] (Med.)  Loss of voice or vocal utterance.  APHONIC; APHONOUS A*phon"ic, Aph"o*nous, a.  Without voice; voiceless; nonvocal. 

APHORISM:  A comprehensive maxim or principle expressed in a few words; a sharply defined sentence relating to abstract truth rather than to practical matters. The first aphorism of Hippocrates is, "Life is short, and the art is long." Fleming.  Syn.  -- Axiom; maxim; adage; proverb; apothegm; saying; saw; truism; dictum. See Axiom.  APHORISMATIC; APHORISMIC Aph`o*ris*mat"ic, Aph`o*ris"mic, a.  Pertaining to aphorisms, or having the form of an aphorism. 

APHORISMER:  A dealer in aphorisms. [Used in derogation or contempt.] Milton. 

APHORIST:  A writer or utterer of aphorisms.  APHORISTIC; APHORISTICAL Aph`o*ris"tic, Aph`o*ris"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  In the form of, or of the nature of, an aphorism; in the form of short, unconnected sentences; as, an aphoristic style. The method of the book is aphoristic. De Quincey. 

APHORISTICALLY:  In the form or manner of aphorisms; pithily. 

APHORIZE:  To make aphorisms. 

APHOTIC:  Without light.  APHOTIC REGION Aphotic region. (Phytogeog.)  A depth of water so great that only those organisms can exist that do not assimilate. 

APHRITE:  See under Calcite.  APHRODISIAC; APHRODISIACAL Aph`ro*dis"i*ac, Aph`ro*di*si"a*cal, a. Etym: [Gr. Aphrodite.]  Exciting venereal desire; provocative to venery. 

APHRODISIAC:  That which (as a drug, or some kinds of food) excites to venery. 

APHRODISIAN:  Pertaining to Aphrodite or Venus. "Aphrodisian dames" [that is, courtesans]. C. Reade. 

APHRODITE:  The Greek goddess of love, corresponding to the Venus of the Romans.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large marine annelid, covered with long, lustrous, golden, hairlike setæ; the sea mouse.  3. (Zoöl.)  A beautiful butterfly (Argunnis Aphrodite) of the United States. 

APHRODITIC:  Venereal. [R.] Dunglison. 

APHTHAE:  Roundish pearl-colored specks or flakes in the mouth, on the lips, etc., terminating in white sloughs. They are commonly characteristic of thrush. 

APHTHOID:  Of the nature of aphthæ; resembling thrush. 

APHTHONG:  A letter, or a combination of letters, employed in spelling a word, but in the pronunciation having no sound.  -- Aph*thon"gal, a. 

APHTHOUS:  Pertaining to, or caused by, aphthæ; characterized by aphtæ; as, aphthous ulcers; aphthous fever. 

APHYLLOUS:  Destitute of leaves, as the broom rape, certain euphorbiaceous plants, etc. 

APIACEOUS:  Umbelliferous. 

APIAN:  Belonging to bees. 

APIARIAN:  Of or relating to bees. 

APIARIST:  One who keeps an apiary. 

APIARY:  A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; a beehouse. 

APICAL:  At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit. Gray. 

APICES:  See Apex. 

APICIAN:  Belonging to Apicius, a notorious Roman epicure; hence applied to whatever is peculiarly refined or dainty and expensive in cookery. H. Rogers. 

APICULAR:  Situated at, or near, the apex; apical.  APICULATE; APICULATED A*pic"u*late, A*pic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Apicular.] (Bot.)  Terminated abruptly by a small, distinct point, as a leaf. 

APICULTURE:  Rearing of bees for their honey and wax. 

APIECE:  Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share of each; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece. "Fined . . . a thousand pounds apiece." Hume. 

APIECES:  In pieces or to pieces. [Obs.] "Being torn apieces." Shak. 

APIKED:  Trimmed. [Obs.] Full fresh and new here gear apiked was. Chaucer. 

APIOL:  An oily liquid derived from parsley. 

APIOLOGIST:  A student of bees. [R.] Emerson. 

APIOLOGY:  The scientific or systematic study of honey bees. 

APIS:  A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including the common honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species. See Honeybee. 

APISH:  Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servile manner. Hence: Apelike; fantastically silly; foppish; affected; trifling. The apish gallantry of a fantastic boy. Sir W. Scott. 

APISHLY:  In an apish manner; with servile imitation; foppishly. 

APISHNESS:  The quality of being apish; mimicry; foppery. 

APITPAT:  With quick beating or palpitation; pitapat. Congreve. 

APLACENTAL:  Belonging to the Aplacentata; without placenta. 

APLACENTATA:  Mammals which have no placenta. 

APLACOPHORA:  A division of Amphineura in which the body is naked or covered with slender spines or setæ, but is without shelly plates. 

APLANATIC:  Having two or more parts of different curvatures, so combined as to remove spherical aberration; -- said of a lens. Aplanatic focus of a lens (Opt.), the point or focus from which rays diverging pass the lens without spherical aberration. In certain forms of lenses there are two such foci; and it is by taking advantage of this fact that the best aplanatic object glasses of microscopes are constructed. 

APLANATISM:  Freedom from spherical aberration. 

APLANOGAMETE:  A nonmotile gamete, found in certain lower algæ. 

APLASIA:  Incomplete or faulty development. 

APLASTIC:  Not plastic or easily molded. 

APLOMB:  Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession. 

APLOTOMY:  Simple incision. Dunglison. 

APLUSTRE:  An ornamental appendage of wood at the ship's stern, usually spreading like a fan and curved like a bird's feather. Audsley. 

APLYSIA:  A genus of marine mollusks of the order Tectibranchiata; the sea hare. Some of the species when disturbed throw out a deep purple liquor, which colors the water to some distance. See Illust. in Appendix. 

APNEUMATIC:  Devoid of air; free from air; as, an apneumatic lung; also, effected by or with exclusion of air; as, an apneumatic operation. 

APNEUMONA:  An order of holothurians in which the internal respiratory organs are wanting; -- called also Apoda or Apodes.  APNOEA; APNEA Ap*nae"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)  Partial privation or suspension of breath; suffocation. 

APO:  A prefix from a Greek preposition. It usually signifies from, away from, off, or asunder, separate; as, in apocope (a cutting off), apostate, apostle (one sent away), apocarpous. 

APOCALYPSE:  Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to the Revelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a prophetic revelation. Apocolyptic number, the number 666, mentioned in Rev. xiii. 18. It has been variously interpreted.  APOCALYPTIC; APOCALYPTIST A*poc`a*lyp"tic, A*poc`a*lyp"tist, n.  The writer of the Apocalypse. 

APOCALYPTICALLY:  By revelation; in an apocalyptic manner. 

APOCARPOUS:  Either entirely of partially separate, as the carpels of a compound pistil; -- opposed to syncarpous. Lindley. 

APOCHROMATIC:  Free from chromatic and spherical aberration; -- said esp. of a lens in which rays of three or more colors are brought to the same focus, the degree of achromatism thus obtained being more complete than where two rays only are thus focused, as in the ordinary achromatic objective. --Ap`o*chro"ma*tism (#), n. 

APOCODEINE:  An alkaloid, , prepared from codeine. In its effects it resembles apomorphine. 

APOCOPATE:  To cut off or drop; as, to apocopate a word, or the last letter, syllable, or part of a word.  APOCOPATE; APOCOPATED A*poc"o*pate, A*poc"o*pa`ted, a.  Shortened by apocope; as, an apocopate form. 

APOCOPATION:  Shortening by apocope; the state of being apocopated. 

APOCOPE:  A cutting off; abscission.  APOCRISIARY; APOCRISIARIUS Ap`o*cris"i*a*ry, Ap`o*cris`i*a"ri*us, n. Etym: [L. apocrisiarius, apocrisarius, fr. Gr. (Eccl.)  A delegate or deputy; especially, the pope's nuncio or legate at Constantinople. 

APOCRUSTIC:  Astringent and repellent.  -- n.  An apocrustic medicine. 

APOCRYPHALIST:  One who believes in, or defends, the Apocrypha. [R.] 

APOCRYPHALLY:  In an apocryphal manner; mythically; not indisputably. 

APOCRYPHALNESS:  The quality or state of being apocryphal; doubtfulness of credit or genuineness.  APOCYNACEOUS; APOCYNEOUS A*poc`y*na"ceous, Ap`o*cyn"e*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  Belonging to, or resembling, a family of plants, of which the dogbane (Apocynum) is the type. 

APOCYNIN:  A bitter principle obtained from the dogbane (Apocynum cannabinum).  APOD; APODAL Ap"od, Ap"o*dal, a. Etym: [See Apod, n.]  1. Without feet; footless.  2. (Zoöl.)  Destitute of the ventral fin, as the eels.  APOD; APODE Ap"od, Ap"ode, n.; pl. Apods or Apodes. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)  One of certain animals that have no feet or footlike organs; esp. one of certain fabulous birds which were said to have no feet.  Note: The bird of paradise formerly had the name Paradisea apoda, being supposed to have no feet, as these were wanting in the specimens first obtained from the East Indies. 

APODAN:  Apodal.  APODEICTIC; APODICTIC; APODEICTICAL; APODICTICAL Ap"o*deic"tic, Ap`o*dic"tic, Ap`o*deic"tic*al, Ap`o*dic"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. apodicticus, Gr.  Self-evident; intuitively true; evident beyond contradiction. Brougham. Sir Wm. Hamilton.  APODEICTICALLY; APODICTICALLY Ap`o*deic"tic*al*ly, Ap`o*dic"tic*al*ly, adv.  So as to be evident beyond contradiction. 

APODEME:  One of the processes of the shell which project inwards and unite with one another, in the thorax of many Crustacea. 

APODICTIC:  Same as Apodeictic. 

APODIXIS:  Full demonstration. 

APODOSIS:  The consequent clause or conclusion in a conditional sentence, expressing the result, and thus distinguished from the protasis or clause which expresses a condition. Thus, in the sentence, "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him," the former clause is the protasis, and the latter the apodosis.  Note: Some grammarians extend the terms protasis and apodosis to the introductory clause and the concluding clause, even when the sentence is not conditional. 

APODOUS:  Apodal; apod. 

APODYTERIUM:  The apartment at the entrance of the baths, or in the palestra, where one stripped; a dressing room. 

APOGAIC:  Apogean. 

APOGAMIC:  Relating to apogamy. 

APOGAMY:  The formation of a bud in place of a fertilized ovule or oöspore. De Bary. 

APOGEAL:  Apogean. 

APOGEAN:  Connected with the apogee; as, apogean (neap) tides, which occur when the moon has passed her apogee. 

APOGEE:  That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatest distance from the earth.  Note: Formerly, on the hypothesis that the earth is in the center of the system, this name was given to that point in the orbit of the sun, or of a planet, which was supposed to be at the greatest distance from the earth.  2. Fig.: The farthest or highest point; culmination. 

APOGEOTROPIC:  Bending away from the ground; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin. 

APOGEOTROPISM:  The apogeotropic tendency of some leaves, and other parts. 

APOGRAPH:  A copy or transcript. Blount. 

APOHYAL:  Of or pertaining to a portion of the horn of the hyoid bone. 

APOISE:  Balanced. 

APOLAR:  Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly to certain nerve cells. 

APOLAUSTIC:  Devoted to enjoyment. 

APOLLINARIAN:  In honor of Apollo; as, the Apollinarian games. 

APOLLINARIAN:  A follower of Apollinaris, Bishop of Laodicea in the fourth century, who denied the proper humanity of Christ.  APOLLINARIS WATER A*pol`li*na"ris wa"ter.  An effervescing alkaline mineral water used as a table beverage. It is obtained from a spring in Apollinarisburg, near Bonn. 

APOLLO:  A deity among the Greeks and Romans. He was the god of light and day (the "sun god"), of archery, prophecy, medicine, poetry, and music, etc., and was represented as the model of manly grace and beauty; -- called also Phébus. The Apollo Belvedere, a celebrated statue of Apollo in the Belvedere gallery of the Vatican palace at Rome, esteemed of the noblest representations of the human frame.  APOLLONIAN; APOLLONIC Ap`ol*lo"ni*an, Ap`ol*lon"ic, a.  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Apollo. 

APOLLYON:  The Destroyer; -- a name used (Rev. ix. 11) for the angel of the bottomless pit, answering to the Hebrew Abaddon. 

APOLOGER:  A teller of apologues. [Obs.]  APOLOGETIC; APOLOGETICAL A*pol`o*get"ic, A*pol`o*get"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Logic.]  Defending by words or arguments; said or written in defense, or by way of apology; regretfully excusing; as, an apologetic essay. "To speak in a subdued and apologetic tone." Macaulay. 

APOLOGETICALLY:  By way of apology. 

APOLOGETICS:  That branch of theology which defends the Holy Scriptures, and sets forth the evidence of their divine authority. 

APOLOGIST:  One who makes an apology; one who speaks or writes in defense of a faith, a cause, or an institution; especially, one who argues in defense of Christianity. 

APOLOGIZE:  To defend. [Obs.] The Christians . . . were apologized by Plinie. Dr. G. Benson. 

APOLOGIZER:  One who makes an apology; an apologist. 

APOLOGUE:  A story or relation of fictitious events, intended to convey some moral truth; a moral fable.  Note: An apologue differs from a parable in this;: the parable is drawn from events which take place among mankind, and therefore requires probability in the narrative; the apologue is founded on supposed actions of brutes or inanimate things, and therefore is not limited by strict rules of probability. Æsop's fables are good examples of apologues. 

APOLOGY:  To offer an apology. [Obs.] For which he can not well apology. J. Webster. 

APOMECOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the height of objects. Knight. 

APOMECOMETRY:  The art of measuring the distance of objects afar off. [Obs. or R.]  APOMORPHIA; APOMORPHINE Ap`o*mor"phi*a, Ap`o*mor"phine, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + morphia, morphine.] (Chem.)  A crystalline alkaloid obtained from morphia. It is a powerful emetic. 

APONEUROSIS:  Any one of the thicker and denser of the deep fasciæ which cover, invest, and the terminations and attachments of, many muscles. They often differ from tendons only in being flat and thin. See Fascia. 

APONEUROTIC:  Of or pertaining to an aponeurosis. 

APONEUROTOMY:  Dissection of aponeuroses. 

APOPEMPTIC:  Sung or addressed to one departing; valedictory; as, apoplectic songs or hymns. 

APOPHASIS:  A figure by which a speaker formally declines to take notice of a favorable point, but in such a manner as to produce the effect desired. [For example, see Mark Antony's oration. Shak., Julius Cæsar, iii. 2.] 

APOPHLEGMATIC:  Designed to facilitate discharges of phlegm or mucus from mouth or nostrils.  -- n.  An apohlegmatic medicine. 

APOPHLEGMATISM:  The action of apophlegmatics.  2. An apophlegmatic. [Obs.] Bacon. 

APOPHLEGMATIZANT:  An apophlegmatic. [Obs.] 

APOPHTHEGM:  See Apothegm.  APOPHTHEGMATIC; APOPHTHEGMATICAL Ap`oph*theg*mat"ic, Ap`oph*theg*mat"ic*al, a.  Same as Apothegmatic. 

APOPHYGE:  The small hollow curvature given to the top or bottom of the shaft of a column where it expands to meet the edge of the fillet; -- called also the scape. Parker. 

APOPHYLLITE:  A mineral relating to the zeolites, usually occurring in square prisms or octahedrons with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. It is a hydrous silicate of calcium and potassium. 

APOPHYSIS:  A marked prominence or process on any part of a bone.  2. (Bot.)  An enlargement at the top of a pedicel or stem, as seen in certain mosses. Gray.  APOPLECTIC; APOPLECTICAL Ap`o*plec"tic(#) Ap`o*plec"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. apoplecticus, Gr. apoplectique. See Apoplexy.]  Relating to apoplexy; affected with, inclined to, or symptomatic of, apoplexy; as, an apoplectic person, medicine, habit or temperament, symptom, fit, or stroke. 

APOPLECTIC:  One liable to, or affected with, apoplexy.  APOPLECTIFORM; APOPLECTOID Ap`o*plec"ti*form, Ap`o*plec"toid, a. Etym: [Apoplectic + -form, - oid.]  Resembling apoplexy. 

APOPLEX:  Apoplexy. [Obs.] Dryden. 

APOPLEXED:  Affected with apoplexy. [Obs.] Shak. 

APOPLEXY:  Sudden diminution or loss of consciousness, sensation, and voluntary motion, usually caused by pressure on the brain.  Note: The term is now usually limited to cerebral apoplexy, or loss of consciousness due to effusion of blood or other lesion within the substance of the brain; but it is sometimes extended to denote an effusion of blood into the substance of any organ; as, apoplexy of the lung. 

APORETICAL:  Doubting; skeptical. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

APORIA:  A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss what course to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc. 

APOROSA:  A group of corals in which the coral is not porous; -- opposed to Perforata. 

APOROSE:  Without pores. 

APORT:  On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm. 

APOSEMATIC:  Having or designating conspicuous or warning colors or structures indicative of special means of defense against enemies, as in the skunk. 

APOSIOPESIS:  A figure of speech in which the speaker breaks off suddenly, as if unwilling or unable to state what was in his mind; as, "I declare to you that his conduct -- but I can not speak of that, here." 

APOSITIC:  Destroying the appetite, or suspending hunger. 

APOSTASY:  An abandonment of what one has voluntarily professed; a total desertion of departure from one's faith, principles, or party; esp., the renunciation of a religious faith; as, Julian's apostasy from Christianity. 

APOSTATE:  One who, after having received sacred orders, renounces his clerical profession. 

APOSTATE:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, apostasy; faithless to moral allegiance; renegade. So spake the apostate angel. Milton. A wretched and apostate state. Steele. 

APOSTATE:  To apostatize. [Obs.] We are not of them which apostate from Christ. Bp. Hall. 

APOSTATIC:  Apostatical. [R.] 

APOSTATICAL:  Apostate. An heretical and apostatical church. Bp. Hall. 

APOSTATIZE:  To renounce totally a religious belief once professed; to forsake one's church, the faith or principles once held, or the party to which one has previously adhered. He apostatized from his old faith in facts, took to believing in Carlyle. 

APOSTEMATE:  To form an abscess; to swell and fill with pus. Wiseman. 

APOSTEMATION:  The formation of an aposteme; the process of suppuration. [Written corruptly imposthumation.] Wiseman. 

APOSTEMATOUS:  Pertaining to, or partaking of the nature of, an aposteme. 

APOSTEME:  An abscess; a swelling filled with purulent matter. [Written corruptly imposthume.]  A POSTERIORI A` pos*te`ri*o"ri. Etym: [L. a (ab) + posterior latter.]  1. (Logic)  Characterizing that kind of reasoning which derives propositions from the observation of facts, or by generalizations from facts arrives at principles and definitions, or infers causes from effects. This is the reverse of a priori reasoning.  2. (Philos.)  Applied to knowledge which is based upon or derived from facts through induction or experiment; inductive or empirical.  APOSTIL; APOSTILLE A*pos"til, A*pos"tille, n. Etym: [F. apostille. See Postil.]  A marginal note on a letter or other paper; an annotation. Motley. 

APOSTLE:  A brief letter dimissory sent by a court appealed from to the superior court, stating the case, etc.; a paper sent up on appeals in the admiralty courts. Wharton. Burrill. Apostles' creed, a creed of unknown origin, which was formerly ascribed to the apostles. It certainly dates back to the beginning of the sixth century, and some assert that it can be found in the writings of Ambrose in the fourth century.  -- Apostle spoon (Antiq.), a spoon of silver, with the handle terminating in the figure of an apostle. One or more were offered by sponsors at baptism as a present to the godchild. B. Jonson. 

APOSTLESHIP:  The office or dignity of an apostle. 

APOSTOLIC:  A member of one of certain ascetic sects which at various times professed to imitate the practice of the apostles. 

APOSTOLICALLY:  In an apostolic manner. 

APOSTOLICALNESS:  Apostolicity. Dr. H. More.  APOSTOLIC DELEGATE Ap`os*tol"ic del"e*gate. (R. C. Ch.)  The diplomatic agent of the pope highest in grade, superior to a nuncio.  APOSTOLICISM; APOSTOLICITY Ap`os*tol"i*cism, A*pos`to*lic"i*ty, n.  The state or quality of being apostolical. 

APOSTROPHE:  A figure of speech by which the orator or writer suddenly breaks off from the previous method of his discourse, and addresses, in the second person, some person or thing, absent or present; as, Milton's apostrophe to Light at the beginning of the third book of "Paradise Lost."  2. (Gram.)  The contraction of a word by the omission of a letter or letters, which omission is marked by the character ['] placed where the letter or letters would have been; as, call'd for called.  3. The mark ['] used to denote that a word is contracted (as in ne'er for never, can't for can not), and as sign of the possessive, singular and plural; as, a boy's hat, boys' hats. In the latter use it originally marked the omission of the letter e.  Note: The apostrophe is used to mark the plural of figures and letters; as, two 10's and three a's. It is also employed to mark the close of a quotation. 

APOSTROPHIC:  Pertaining to an apostrophe, grammatical or rhetorical. 

APOSTROPHIZE:  To use the rhetorical figure called apostrophe. 

APOSTUME:  See Aposteme. [Obs.] 

APOTACTITE:  One of a sect of ancient Christians, who, in supposed imitation of the first believers, renounced all their possessions. 

APOTELESM:  The calculation and explanation of a nativity. [Obs.] Bailey. 

APOTHECARY:  One who prepares and sells drugs or compounds for medicinal purposes.  Note: In England an apothecary is one of a privileged class of practitioners -- a kind of sub-physician. The surgeon apothecary is the ordinary family medical attendant. One who sells drugs and makes up prescriptions is now commonly called in England a druggist or a pharmaceutical chemist. Apothecaries' weight, the system of weights by which medical prescriptions were formerly compounded. The pound and ounce are the same as in Troy weight; they differ only in the manner of subdivision. The ounce is divided into 8 drams, 24 scruples, 480 grains. See Troy weight. 

APOTHECIUM:  The ascigerous fructification of lichens, forming masses of various shapes.  APOTHEGM; APOPHTHEGM Ap"o*thegm, Ap"oph*thegm, n. Etym: [Gr.  A short, pithy, and instructive saying; a terse remark, conveying some important truth; a sententious precept or maxim.  Note: [Apothegm is now the prevalent spelling in the United States.]  APOTHEGMATIC; APOTHEGMATICAL Ap`o*theg*mat"ic, Ap`o*theg*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Pertaining to, or in the manner of, an apotghem; sententious; pithy. 

APOTHEGMATIST:  A collector or maker of apothegms. Pope. 

APOTHEGMATIZE:  To utter apothegms, or short and sententious sayings. 

APOTHEM:  The perpendicular from the center to one of the sides of a regular polygon.  2. A deposit formed in a liquid extract of a vegetable substance by exposure to the air. 

APOTHEOSIZE:  To exalt to the dignity of a deity; to declare to be a god; to deify; to glorify. 

APOTOME:  The difference between two quantities commensurable only in power, as between sq. root2 and 1, or between the diagonal and side of a square.  2. (Mus)  The remaining part of a whole tone after a smaller semitone has been deducted from it; a major semitone. [Obs.] 

APOZEM:  A decoction or infusion. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

APOZEMICAL:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a decoction. [Obs.] J. Whitaker. 

APPAIR:  To impair; to grow worse. [Obs.] 

APPALACHIAN:  Of or pertaining to a chain of mountains in the United States, commonly called the Allegheny mountains.  Note: The name Appalachian was given to the mountains by the Spaniards under De Soto, who derived it from the heighboring Indians. Am. Cyc. 

APPALL:  Terror; dismay. [Poet.] Cowper. 

APPALLING:  Such as to appall; as, an appalling accident.  -- Ap*pall"ing*ly, adv. 

APPALLMENT:  Depression occasioned by terror; dismay. [Obs.] Bacon. 

APPANAGIST:  A prince to whom an appanage has been granted. 

APPARAILLYNG:  Preparation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

APPARATUS:  A collection of organs all of which unite in a common function; as, the respiratory apparatus. 

APPAREL:  The furniture of a ship, as masts, sails, rigging, anchors, guns, etc.  Syn.  -- Dress; clothing; vesture; garments; raiment; garb; costume; attire; habiliments. 

APPARENCE:  Appearance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

APPARENT:  An heir apparent. [Obs.] I'll draw it [the sword] as apparent to the crown. Shak. 

APPARENTNESS:  Plainness to the eye or the mind; visibleness; obviousness. [R.] Sherwood. 

APPARITION:  The first appearance of a star or other luminary after having been invisible or obscured; -- opposed to occultation. Circle of perpetual apparition. See under Circle. 

APPARITIONAL:  Pertaining to an apparition or to apparitions; spectral. "An apparitional soul." Tylor. 

APPARITOR:  A messenger or officer who serves the process of an ecclesiastical court. Bouvier. 

APPAUME:  A hand open and extended so as to show the palm. 

APPAY:  To pay; to satisfy or appease. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

APPEACH:  To impeach; to accuse; to asperse; to inform against; to reproach. [Obs.] And oft of error did himself appeach. Spenser. 

APPEACHER:  An accuser. [Obs.] Raleigh. 

APPEACHMENT:  Accusation. [Obs.] 

APPEAL:  To apply for the removal of a cause from an inferior to a superior judge or court for the purpose of reëxamination of for decision. Tomlins. I appeal unto Cæsar. Acts xxv. 11.  2. To call upon another to decide a question controverted, to corroborate a statement, to vindicate one's rights, etc.; as, I appeal to all mankind for the truth of what is alleged. Hence: To call on one for aid; to make earnest request. I appeal to the Scriptures in the original. Horsley. They appealed to the sword. Macaulay. 

APPEALANT:  An appellant. [Obs.] Shak. 

APPEALER:  One who makes an appeal. 

APPEALING:  That appeals; imploring.  -- Ap*peal"*ing*ly, adv.  -- Ap*peal"ing*ness, n. 

APPEAR:  Appearance. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 

APPEARANCE:  The coming into court of either of the parties; the being present in court; the coming into court of a party summoned in an action, either by himself or by his attorney, expressed by a formal entry by the proper officer to that effect; the act or proceeding by which a party proceeded against places himself before the court, and submits to its jurisdiction. Burrill. Bouvier. Daniell. To put in an appearance, to be present; to appear in person.  -- To save appearances, to preserve a fair outward show.  Syn.  -- Coming; arrival; presence; semblance; pretense; air; look; manner; mien; figure; aspect. 

APPEARER:  One who appears. Sir T. Browne. 

APPEARINGLY:  Apparently. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

APPEASABLE:  Capable of being appeased or pacified; placable.  -- Ap*peas"a*ble*ness, n. 

APPEASE:  To make quiet; to calm; to reduce to a state of peace; to still; to pacify; to dispel (anger or hatred); as, to appease the tumult of the ocean, or of the passions; to appease hunger or thirst.  Syn.  -- To pacify; quiet; conciliate; propitiate; assuage; compose; calm; allay; hush; soothe; tranquilize. 

APPEASEMENT:  The act of appeasing, or the state of being appeased; pacification. Hayward. 

APPEASER:  One who appeases; a pacifier. 

APPEASIVE:  Tending to appease. 

APPEL:  A tap or stamp of the foot as a warning of intent to attack; -- called also attack. 

APPELLABLE:  Appealable. 

APPELLANCY:  Capability of appeal. 

APPELLANT:  Relating to an appeal; appellate. "An appellant jurisdiction." Hallam. Party appellant (Law), the party who appeals; appellant; -- opposed to respondent, or appellee. Tomlins. 

APPELLANT:  One who appealed to a general council against the bull Unigenitus.  4. One who appeals or entreats. 

APPELLATE:  Pertaining to, or taking cognizance of, appeals. "Appellate jurisdiction." Blackstone. "Appellate judges." Burke. Appelate court, a court having cognizance of appeals. 

APPELLATE:  A person or prosecuted for a crime. [Obs.] See Appellee. 

APPELLATIVE:  Common, as opposed to proper; denominative of a class. 

APPELLATIVELY:  After the manner of nouns appellative; in a manner to express whole classes or species; as, Hercules is sometimes used appellatively, that is, as a common name, to signify a strong man. 

APPELLATIVENESS:  The quality of being appellative. Fuller. 

APPELLATORY:  Containing an appeal. An appellatory libel ought to contain the name of the party appellant. Ayliffe. 

APPENAGE:  See Appanage. 

APPENDAGE:  A subordinate or subsidiary part or organ; an external organ or limb, esp. of the articulates. Antennæ and other appendages used for feeling. Carpenter.  Syn.  -- Addition; adjunct; concomitant. 

APPENDAGED:  Furnished with, or supplemented by, an appendage. 

APPENDANCE:  Something appendant. 

APPENDANT:  Appended by prescription, that is, a personal usage for a considerable time; -- said of a thing of inheritance belonging to another inheritance which is superior or more worthy; as, an advowson, common, etc. , which may be appendant to a manor, common of fishing to a freehold, a seat in church to a house. Wharton. Coke. 

APPENDANT:  A inheritance annexed by prescription to a superior inheritance.  APPENDECTOMY; APPENDICECTOMY Ap`pen*dec"to*my, Ap*pend`i*cec"to*my, n. [Appendix + Gr., fr. excision.] (Surg.)  Excision of the vermiform appendix.  APPENDENCE; APPENDENCY Ap*pend"ence, Ap*pend"en*cy, n.  State of being appendant; appendance. [Obs.] 

APPENDICAL:  Of or like an appendix. 

APPENDICATE:  To append. [Obs.] 

APPENDICATION:  An appendage. [Obs.] 

APPENDICITIS:  Inflammation of the vermiform appendix. 

APPENDICLE:  A small appendage. 

APPENDICULAR:  Relating to an appendicle; appendiculate. [R.] 

APPENDICULARIA:  A genus of small free-swimming Tunicata, shaped somewhat like a tadpole, and remarkable for resemblances to the larvæ of other Tunicata. It is the type of the order Copelata or Larvalia. See Illustration in Appendix. 

APPENDICULATA:  An order of annelids; the Polychæta. 

APPENDICULATE:  Having small appendages; forming an appendage. Appendiculate leaf, a small appended leaf. Withering. 

APPENDIX:  The vermiform appendix. 

APPENSION:  The act of appending. [Obs.] 

APPERCEIVE:  To perceive; to comprehend. Chaucer. 

APPERCEPTION:  The mind's perception of itself as the subject or actor in its own states; perception that reflects upon itself; sometimes, intensified or energetic perception. Leibnitz. Reid. This feeling has been called by philosophers the apperception or consciousness of our own existence. Sir W. Hamilton. 

APPERIL:  Peril. [Obs.] Shak. 

APPERTAIN:  To belong or pertain, whether by right, nature, appointment, or custom; to relate. Things appertaining to this life. Hooker. Give it unto him to whom it appertaineth. Lev. vi. 5. 

APPERTAINMENT:  That which appertains to a person; an appurtenance. [Obs. or R.] Shak.  APPERTINANCE; APPERTINENCE Ap*per"ti*nance, Ap*per"ti*nence, n.  See Appurtenance. 

APPERTINENT:  Belonging; appertaining. [Now usually written appurtenant.] Coleridge. 

APPERTINENT:  That which belongs to something else; an appurtenant. [Obs.] Shak. 

APPETE:  To seek for; to desire. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

APPETENCE:  A longing; a desire; especially an ardent desire; appetite; appetency. 

APPETENT:  Desiring; eagerly desirous. [R.] Appetent after glory and renown. Sir G. Buck. 

APPETIBILITY:  The quality of being desirable. Bramhall. 

APPETIBLE:  Desirable; capable or worthy of being the object of desire. Bramhall. 

APPETITION:  Desire; a longing for, or seeking after, something. Holland. 

APPETITIVE:  Having the quality of desiring gratification; as, appetitive power or faculty. Sir M. Hale. 

APPETIZE:  To make hungry; to whet the appetite of. Sir W. Scott. 

APPETIZER:  Something which creates or whets an appetite. 

APPETIZING:  Exciting appetite; as, appetizing food. The appearance of the wild ducks is very appetizing. Sir W. Scott. 

APPETIZING:  So as to excite appetite. 

APPIAN:  Of or pertaining to Appius. Appian Way, the great paved highway from ancient Rome trough Capua to Brundisium, now Brindisi, constructed partly by Appius Claudius, about 312 b. c. 

APPLAUD:  To express approbation loudly or significantly. 

APPLAUDER:  One who applauds. 

APPLAUSABLE:  Worthy pf applause; praiseworthy. [Obs.] 

APPLAUSE:  The act of applauding; approbation and praise publicly expressed by clapping the hands, stamping or tapping with the feet, acclamation, huzzas, or other means; marked commendation. The brave man seeks not popular applause. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Acclaim; acclamation; plaudit; commendation; approval. 

APPLAUSIVE:  Expressing applause; approbative.  -- Ap*plau"sive*ly, adv. 

APPLE:  Any tree genus Pyrus which has the stalk sunken into the base of the fruit; an apple tree.  3. Any fruit or other vegetable production resembling, or supposed to resemble, the apple; as, apple of love, or love apple (a tomato), balsam apple, egg apple, oak apple.  4. Anything round like an apple; as, an apple of gold.  Note: Apple is used either adjectively or in combination; as, apple paper or apple-paper, apple-shaped, apple blossom, apple dumpling, apple pudding. Apple blight, an aphid which injures apple trees. See Blight, n.  -- Apple borer (Zoöl.), a coleopterous insect (Saperda candida or bivittata), the larva of which bores into the trunk of the apple tree and pear tree.  -- Apple brandy, brandy made from apples.  -- Apple butter, a sauce made of apples stewed down in cider. Bartlett.  -- Apple corer, an instrument for removing the cores from apples.  -- Apple fly (Zoöl.), any dipterous insect, the larva of which burrows in apples. Apple flies belong to the genera Drosophila and Trypeta.  -- Apple midge (Zoöl.) a small dipterous insect (Sciara mali), the larva of which bores in apples.  -- Apple of the eye, the pupil.  -- Apple of discord, a subject of contention and envy, so called from the mythological golden apple, inscribed "For the fairest," which was thrown into an assembly of the gods by Eris, the goddess of discord. It was contended for by Juno, Minerva, and Venus, and was adjudged to the latter.  -- Apple of love, or Love apple, the tomato (Lycopersicum esculentum).  -- Apple of Peru, a large coarse herb (Nicandra physaloides) bearing pale blue flowers, and a bladderlike fruit inclosing a dry berry.  -- Apples of Sodom, a fruit described by ancient writers as externally of air appearance but dissolving into smoke and ashes plucked; Dead Sea apples. The name is often given to the fruit of Solanum Sodomæum, a prickly shrub with fruit not unlike a small yellow tomato.  -- Apple sauce, stewed apples. [U. S.] -- Apple snail or Apple shell (Zoöl.), a fresh-water, operculated, spiral shell of the genus Ampullaria.  -- Apple tart, a tart containing apples.  -- Apple tree, a tree naturally bears apples. See Apple, 2.  -- Apple wine, cider.  -- Apple worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Carpocapsa pomonella) which burrows in the interior of apples. See Codling moth.  -- Dead Sea Apple. (a) pl. Apples of Sodom. Also Fig. "To seek the Dead Sea apples of politics." S. B. Griffin. (b) A kind of gallnut coming from Arabia. See Gallnut. 

APPLE:  To grow like an apple; to bear apples. Holland.  APPLE-FACED Ap"ple-faced`, a.  Having a round, broad face, like an apple. "Apple-faced children." Dickens.  APPLE-JACK Ap"ple-jack`, n.  Apple brandy. [U.S.]  APPLE-JOHN Ap"ple-john`, n..  A kind of apple which by keeping becomes much withered; -- called also Johnapple. Shak.  APPLE PIE Ap"ple pie`.  A pie made of apples (usually sliced or stewed) with spice and sugar. Apple-pie bed, a bed in which, as a joke, the sheets are so doubled (like the cover of an apple turnover) as to prevent any one from getting at his length between them. Halliwell, Conybeare.  -- Apple-pie order, perfect order or arrangement. [Colloq.] Halliwell.  APPLE-SQUIRE Ap"ple-squire`, n.  A pimp; a kept gallant. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

APPLIABLE:  Applicable; also, compliant. [Obs.] Howell. 

APPLICABILITY:  The quality of being applicable or fit to be applied. 

APPLICABLE:  Capable of being applied; fit or suitable to be applied; having relevance; as, this observation is applicable to the case under consideration.  -- Ap"pli*ca*ble*ness, n.  -- Ap"pli*ca*bly, adv. 

APPLICANCY:  The quality or state of being applicable. [R.] 

APPLICANT:  One who apples for something; one who makes request; a petitioner. The applicant for a cup of water. Plumtre. The court require the applicant to appear in person. Z. Swift. 

APPLICATE:  Applied or put to some use. Those applicate sciences which extend the power of man over the elements. I. Taylor. Applicate number (Math.), one which applied to some concrete case.  -- Applicate ordinate, right line applied at right angles to the axis of any conic section, and bounded by the curve. 

APPLICATE:  To apply. [Obs.] The act of faith is applicated to the object. Bp. Pearson. 

APPLICATIVE:  Having of being applied or used; applying; applicatory; practical. Bramhall.  -- Ap"pli*ca*tive*ly, adv. 

APPLICATORILY:  By way of application. 

APPLICATORY:  Having the property of applying; applicative; practical.  -- n.  That which applies. 

APPLIEDLY:  By application. [R.] 

APPLIER:  He who, or that which, applies. 

APPLIMENT:  Application. [Obs.] Marston 

APPLIQUE:  Ornamented with a pattern (which has been cut out of another color or stuff) applied or transferred to a foundation; as, appliqué lace; appliqué work. 

APPLOT:  To divide into plots or parts; to apportion. Milton. 

APPLOTMENT:  Apportionment. 

APPOGGIATURA:  A passing tone preceding an essential tone, and borrowing the time it occupies from that; a short auxiliary or grace note one degree above or below the principal note unless it be of the same harmony; -- generally indicated by a note of smaller size, as in the illustration above. It forms no essential part of the harmony. 

APPOINT:  To direct, designate, or limit; to make or direct a new disposition of, by virtue of a power contained in a conveyance; -- said of an estate already conveyed. Burrill. Kent. To appoint one's self, to resolve. [Obs.] Crowley. 

APPOINT:  To ordain; to determine; to arrange. For the Lord had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithoph2 Sam. xvii. 14. 

APPOINTABLE:  Capable of being appointed or constituted. 

APPOINTEE:  A person in whose favor a power of appointment is executed. Kent. Wharton. 

APPOINTER:  One who appoints, or executes a power of appointment. Kent. 

APPOINTIVE:  Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office. [R.] 

APPOINTMENT:  The exercise of the power of designating (under a "power of appointment") a person to enjoy an estate or other specific property; also, the instrument by which the designation is made.  6. Equipment, furniture, as for a ship or an army; whatever is appointed for use and management; outfit; (pl.) the accouterments of military officers or soldiers, as belts, sashes, swords. The cavaliers emulated their chief in the richness of their appointments. Prescott. I'll prove it in my shackles, with these hands Void of appoinment, that thou liest. Beau. & Fl.  7. An allowance to a person, esp. to a public officer; a perquisite; -- properly only in the plural. [Obs.] An expense proportioned to his appointments and fortune is necessary. Chesterfield.  8. A honorary part or exercise, as an oration, etc., at a public exhibition of a college; as, to have an appointment. [U.S.]  Syn.  -- Designation; command; order; direction; establishment; equipment. 

APPOINTOR:  The person who selects the appointee. See Appointee, 2. 

APPORTER:  A bringer in; an importer. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

APPORTION:  To divide and assign in just proportion; to divide and distribute proportionally; to portion out; to allot; as, to apportion undivided rights; to apportion time among various employments. 

APPORTIONATENESS:  The quality of being apportioned or in proportion. [Obs. & R.] 

APPORTIONER:  One who apportions. 

APPORTIONMENT:  The act of apportioning; a dividing into just proportions or shares; a division or shares; a division and assignment, to each proprietor, of his just portion of an undivided right or property. A. Hamilton. 

APPOSABLE:  Capable of being apposed, or applied one to another, as the thumb to the fingers of the hand. 

APPOSE:  To put questions to; to examine; to try. [Obs.] See Pose. To appose him without any accuser, and that secretly. Tyndale. 

APPOSED:  Placed in apposition; mutually fitting, as the mandibles of a bird's beak. 

APPOSER:  An examiner; one whose business is to put questions. Formerly, in the English Court of Exchequer, an officer who audited the sheriffs' accounts. 

APPOSITE:  Very applicable; well adapted; suitable or fit; relevant; pat; -- followed by to; as, this argument is very apposite to the case.  -- Ap"po*site*ly, adv.  -- Ap"po*site*ness, n. 

APPOSITION:  The state of two nouns or pronouns, put in the same case, without a connecting word between them; as, I admire Cicero, the orator. Here, the second noun explains or characterizes the first. Growth by apposition (Physiol.), a mode of growth characteristic of non vascular tissues, in which nutritive matter from the blood is transformed on the surface of an organ into solid unorganized substance. 

APPOSITIONAL:  Pertaining to apposition; put in apposition syntactically. Ellicott. 

APPOSITIVE:  Of or relating to apposition; in apposition.  -- n.  A noun in apposition.  -- Ap*pos"i*tive*ly, adv. Appositive to the words going immediately before. Knatchbull. 

APPRAISABLE:  Capable of being appraised. 

APPRAISAL:  A valuation by an authorized person; an appraisement. 

APPRAISEMENT:  The act of setting the value; valuation by an appraiser; estimation of worth. 

APPRAISER:  One who appraises; esp., a person appointed and sworn to estimate and fix the value of goods or estates. 

APPRECATION:  Earnest prayer; devout wish. [Obs.] A solemn apprecation of good success. Bp. Hall. 

APPRECATORY:  Praying or wishing good. [Obs.]"Apprecatory benedictions." Bp. Hall. 

APPRECIABLE:  Capable of being appreciated or estimated; large enough to be estimated; perceptible; as, an appreciable quantity.  -- Ap*pre"ci*a*bly, adv. 

APPRECIANT:  Appreciative. [R.] 

APPRECIATE:  To rise in value. [See note under Rise, v. i.] J. Morse. 

APPRECIATINGLY:  In an appreciating manner; with appreciation. 

APPRECIATIVE:  Having or showing a just or ready appreciation or perception; as, an appreciative audience.  -- Ap*pre"ci*a*tive*ly, adv. 

APPRECIATIVENESS:  The quality of being appreciative; quick recognition of excellence. 

APPRECIATOR:  One who appreciates. 

APPRECIATORY:  Showing appreciation; appreciative; as, appreciatory commendation.  -- Ap*pre"ci*a*to*ri*ly, adv. 

APPREHENDER:  One who apprehends. 

APPREHENSIBIITY:  The quality of being apprehensible. [R.] De Quincey. 

APPREHENSIBLE:  Capable of being apprehended or conceived. "Apprehensible by faith." Bp. Hall.  -- Ap`*pre*hen"si*bly, adv. 

APPREHENSIVELY:  In an apprehensive manner; with apprehension of danger. 

APPREHENSIVENESS:  The quality or state of being apprehensive. 

APPRENTICE:  A barrister, considered a learner of law till of sixteen years' standing, when he might be called to the rank of serjeant. [Obs.] Blackstone. 

APPRENTICE:  To bind to, or put under the care of, a master, for the purpose of instruction in a trade or business. 

APPRENTICEAGE:  Apprenticeship. [Obs.] 

APPRENTICEHOOD:  Apprenticeship. [Obs.] 

APPRENTICESHIP:  Pressed close to, or lying against, something for its whole length, as against a stem, Gray. 

APPRISE:  To give notice, verbal or written; to inform; -- followed by of; as, we will apprise the general of an intended attack; he apprised the commander of what he had done. 

APPRISE:  Notice; information. [Obs.] Gower. 

APPRIZAL:  See Appraisal. 

APPRIZE:  To appraise; to value; to appreciate. 

APPRIZEMENT:  Appraisement. 

APPRIZER:  A creditor for whom an appraisal is made. Sir W. Scott. 

APPROACH:  To take approaches to. 

APPROACH:  Movements to gain favor; advances.  4. A way, passage, or avenue by which a place or buildings can be approached; an access. Macaulay.  5. pl. (Fort.)  The advanced works, trenches, or covered roads made by besiegers in their advances toward a fortress or military post.  6. (Hort.)  See Approaching. 

APPROACHABILITY:  The quality of being approachable; approachableness. 

APPROACHABLE:  Capable of being approached; accessible; as, approachable virtue. 

APPROACHABLENESS:  The quality or state of being approachable; accessibility. 

APPROACHER:  One who approaches. 

APPROACHING:  The act of ingrafting a sprig or shoot of one tree into another, without cutting it from the parent stock; -- called, also, inarching and grafting by approach. 

APPROACHLESS:  Impossible to be approached. 

APPROACHMENT:  Approach. [Archaic] Holland. 

APPROBATE:  Approved. [Obs.] Elyot. 

APPROBATE:  To express approbation of; to approve; to sanction officially. I approbate the one, I reprobate the other. Sir W. Hamilton.  Note: This word is obsolete in England, but is occasionally heard in the United States, chiefly in a technical sense for license; as, a person is approbated to preach; approbated to keep a public house. Pickering (1816). 

APPROBATIVE:  Approving, or implying approbation. Milner. 

APPROBATIVENESS:  Love of approbation. 

APPROBATOR:  One who approves. [R.] 

APPROBATORY:  Containing or expressing approbation; commendatory. Sheldon. 

APPROMT:  To quicken; to prompt. [Obs.] To appromt our invention. Bacon. 

APPROPINQUATE:  To approach. [Archaic] Ld. Lytton. 

APPROPINQUATION:  A drawing nigh; approach. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

APPROPINQUITY:  Nearness; propinquity. [R.] J. Gregory. 

APPROPRE:  To appropriate. [Obs.] Fuller. 

APPROPRIABLE:  Capable of being appropriated, set apart, sequestered, or assigned exclusively to a particular use. Sir T. Browne. 

APPROPRIAMENT:  What is peculiarly one's own; peculiar qualification.[Obs.] If you can neglect Your own appropriaments. Ford. 

APPROPRIATE:  Set apart for a particular use or person. Hence: Belonging peculiarly; peculiar; suitable; fit; proper. In its strict and appropriate meaning. Porteus. Appropriate acts of divine worship. Stillingfleet. It is not at all times easy to find words appropriate to express our ideas. Locke. 

APPROPRIATE:  To annex, as a benefice, to a spiritual corporation, as its property. Blackstone. 

APPROPRIATE:  A property; attribute. [Obs.] 

APPROPRIATELY:  In an appropriate or proper manner; fitly; properly. 

APPROPRIATENESS:  The state or quality of being appropriate; peculiar fitness. Froude. 

APPROPRIATIVE:  Appropriating; making, or tending to, appropriation; as, an appropriative act.  -- Ap*pro"pri*a*tive*ness, n. 

APPROPRIATOR:  A spiritual corporation possessed of an appropriated benefice; also, an impropriator. 

APPROVABLE:  Worthy of being approved; meritorious.  -- Ap*prov"a*ble*ness, n. 

APPROVAL:  Approbation; sanction. A censor . . . without whose approval nTemple.  Syn.  -- See Approbation. 

APPROVANCE:  Approval. [Archaic] Thomson. 

APPROVE:  To make profit of; to convert to one's own profit; said esp. of waste or common land appropriated by the lord of the manor. 

APPROVEDLY:  So as to secure approbation; in an approved manner. 

APPROVEMENT:  a confession of guilt by a prisoner charged with treason or felony, together with an accusation of his accomplish and a giving evidence against them in order to obtain his own pardon. The term is no longer in use; it corresponded to what is now known as turning king's (or queen's) evidence in England, and state's evidence in the United States. Burrill. Bouvier. 

APPROVEMENT:  Improvement of common lands, by inclosing and converting them to the uses of husbandry for the advantage of the lord of the manor. Blackstone. 

APPROVER:  One who confesses a crime and accuses another. See 1st Approvement, 2. 

APPROVER:  A bailiff or steward; an agent. [Obs.] Jacobs. 

APPROVING:  Expressing approbation; commending; as, an approving smile.  -- Ap*prov"ing*ly, adv. 

APPROXIMATE:  To draw; to approach. 

APPROXIMATELY:  With approximation; so as to approximate; nearly. 

APPROXIMATIVE:  Approaching; approximate.  -- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ly, adv.  -- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ness, n. 

APPROXIMATOR:  One who, or that which, approximates. 

APPUI:  A support or supporter; a stay; a prop. [Obs.] If a be to climb trees that are of any great height, there would be stays and appuies set to it. Holland. Point d'appui. Etym: [F., a point of support.] (Mil.) (a) A given point or body, upon which troops are formed, or by which are marched in line or column. (b) An advantageous defensive support, as a castle, morass, wood, declivity, etc. 

APPULSE:  The near approach of one heavenly body to another, or to the meridian; a coming into conjunction; as, the appulse of the moon to a star, or of a star to the meridian. 

APPULSION:  A driving or striking against; an appulse. 

APPULSIVE:  Striking against; impinging; as, the appulsive influence of the planets. P. Cyc. 

APPULSIVELY:  By appulsion. 

APPURTENANCE:  That which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage; an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; in common parlance and legal acceptation, something belonging to another thing as principal, and which passes as incident to it, as a right of way, or other easement to land; a right of common to pasture, an outhouse, barn, garden, or orchard, to a house or messuage. In a strict legal sense, land can never pass as an appurtenance to land. Tomlins. Bouvier. Burrill. Globes . . . provided as appurtenances to astronomy. Bacon. The structure of the eye, and of its appurtenances. Reid. 

APPURTENANT:  Annexed or pertaining to some more important thing; accessory; incident; as, a right of way appurtenant to land or buildings. Blackstone. Common appurtenatn. (Law) See under Common, n. 

APPURTENANT:  Something which belongs or appertains to another thing; an appurtenance. Mysterious appurtenants and symbols of redemption. Coleridge. 

APRICATE:  To bask in the sun. Boyle. 

APRICATION:  Basking in the sun. [R.] 

APRICOT:  A fruit allied to the plum, of an orange color, oval shape, and delicious taste; also, the tree (Prunus Armeniaca of Linnæus) which bears this fruit. By cultivation it has been introduced throughout the temperate zone. 

APRIL:  Characterizing that kind of reasoning which deduces consequences from definitions formed, or principles assumed, or which infers effects from causes previously known; deductive or deductively. The reverse of a posteriori.  3. (Philos.)  Applied to knowledge and conceptions assumed, or presupposed, as prior to experience, in order to make experience rational or possible. A priori, that is, form these necessities of the mind or forms of thinking, which, though first revealed to us by experience, must yet have preëxisted in order to make experience possible. Coleridge. 

APRIORISM:  An a priori principle. 

APRIORITY:  The quality of being innate in the mind, or prior to experience; a priori reasoning. 

APROCTA:  A group of Turbellaria in which there is no anal aperture. 

APROCTOUS:  Without an anal office. 

APRONED:  Wearing an apron. A cobbler aproned, and a parson gowned. Pope. 

APRONFUL:  The quality an apron can hold. 

APRONLESS:  Without an apron.  APRON MAN A"pron man`.  A man who wears an apron; a laboring man; a mechanic. [Obs.] Shak.  APRON STRING A"pron string`.  The string of an apron. To be tied to a wife's or mother's apron strings, to be unduly controlled by a wife or mother. He was so made that he could not submit to be tied to the apron strings even of the best of wives. Macaulay. 

APSIDAL:  Of or pertaining to the apsides of an orbit.  2. (Arch.)  Of or pertaining to the apse of a church; as, the apsidal termination of the chancel. 

APSIDES:  See Apsis. 

APSIS:  One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite, which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body, corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet, or to the apogee and perigee of the moon. The more distant is called the higher apsis; the other, the lower apsis; and the line joining them, the line of apsides.  2. (Math.)  In a curve referred to polar coördinates, any point for which the radius vector is a maximum or minimum.  3. (Arch.)  Same as Apse. 

APT:  To fit; to suit; to adapt. [Obs.] " To apt their places." B. Jonson. That our speech be apted to edification. Jer. Taylor. 

APTABLE:  Capable of being adapted. [Obs.] Sherwood. 

APTATE:  To make fit. [Obs.] Bailey 

APTERA:  Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnæn order of insects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders, centipeds, and even worms. These animals are now placed in several distinct classes and orders. 

APTERAL:  Apterous.  2. (Arch.)  Without lateral columns; -- applied to buildings which have no series of columns along their sides, but are either prostyle or amphiprostyle, and opposed to peripteral. R. Cyc. 

APTERAN:  One of the Aptera. 

APTERIA:  Naked spaces between the feathered areas of birds. See Pteryliæ. 

APTEROUS:  Destitute of wings; apteral; as, apterous insects.  2. (Bot.)  Destitute of winglike membranous expansions, as a stem or petiole; -- opposed to atate. 

APTERYGES:  An order of birds, including the genus Apteryx. 

APTERYX:  A genus of New Zealand birds about the size of a hen, with only short rudiments of wings, armed with a claw and without a tail; the kiwi. It is allied to the gigantic extinct moas of the same country. Five species are known. 

APTITUDINAL:  Suitable; fit. [Obs.] 

APTLY:  In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently; appropriately; readily. 

APTOTE:  A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun. 

APTOTIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, aptotes; uninflected; as, aptotic languages. 

APTYCHUS:  A shelly plate found in the terminal chambers of ammonite shells. Some authors consider them to be jaws; others, opercula. 

APUS:  A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod. 

APYRETIC:  Without fever; -- applied to days when there is an intermission of fever. Dunglison.  APYREXIA; APYREXY Ap`y*rex"i*a, Ap`y*rex`y, n. Etym: [NL. apyrexia, fr. Gr. apyrexie.] (Med.)  The absence or intermission of fever. 

APYREXIAL:  Relating to apyrexy. "Apyrexial period." Brande & C. 

APYROUS:  Incombustible; capable of sustaining a strong heat without alteration of form or properties. 

AQUA:  Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry, in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed. Aqua ammoniæ, the aqueous solution of ammonia; liquid ammonia; often called aqua ammonia.  -- Aqua marine, or Aqua marina. Same as Aquamarine.  -- Aqua regia. Etym: [L., royal water] (Chem.), a very corrosive fuming yellow liquid consisting of nitric and hydrochloric acids. It has the power of dissolving gold, the "royal" metal.  -- Aqua Tofana, a fluid containing arsenic, and used for secret poisoning, made by an Italian woman named Tofana, in the middle of the 17th century, who is said to have poisoned more than 600 persons. Francis.  -- Aqua vitæ Etym: [L., water of life. Cf. Eau de vie, Usquebaugh], a name given to brandy and some other ardent spirits. Shak.  AQUA FORTIS A`qua for"tis. Etym: [L., strong water.] (Chem.)  Nitric acid. [Archaic] 

AQUAMARINE:  A transparent, pale green variety of beryl, used as a gem. See Beryl. 

AQUAPUNCTURE:  The introduction of water subcutaneously for the relief of pain. 

AQUARELLE:  A design or painting in thin transparent water colors; also, the mode of painting in such colors. 

AQUARELLIST:  A painter in thin transparent water colors.  AQUARIAL; AQUARIAN A*qua"ri*al, A*qua"ri*an, a.  Of or pertaining to an aquarium. 

AQUARIAN:  One of a sect of Christian in the primitive church who used water instead of wine in the Lord's Supper. 

AQUARIUM:  An artificial pond, or a globe or tank (usually with glass sides), in which living specimens of aquatic animals or plants are kept. 

AQUATIC:  Pertaining to water growing in water; living in, swimming in, or frequenting the margins of waters; as, aquatic plants and fowls. 

AQUATIC:  Sports or exercises practiced in or on the water. 

AQUATICAL:  Aquatic. [R.] 

AQUATILE:  Inhabiting the water. [R.] Sir T. Browne.  AQUATINT; AQUATINTA A"qua*tint, A`qua*tin"ta, n. Etym: [It. acquatinta dyed water; acqua (L. aqua) water + tinto, fem. tinta, dyed. See Tint.]  A kind of etching in which spaces are bitten by the use of aqua fortis, by which an effect is produced resembling a drawing in water colors or India ink; also, the engraving produced by this method. 

AQUEDUCT:  A canal or passage; as, the aqueduct of Sylvius, a channel connecting the third and fourth ventricles of the brain. 

AQUEITY:  Wateriness. [Obs.] 

AQUEOUSNESS:  Wateriness. 

AQUIFEROUS:  Consisting or conveying water or a watery fluid; as, aquiferous vessels; the aquiferous system. 

AQUIFORM:  Having the form of water. 

AQUILA:  A genus of eagles.  2. (Astron.)  A northern constellation southerly from Lyra and Cygnus and preceding the Dolphin; the Eagle. Aquila alba Etym: [L., white eagle], an alchemical name of calomel. Brande & C. 

AQUILATED:  Adorned with eagles' heads. 

AQUILON:  The north wind. [Obs.] Shak. 

AQUIPAROUS:  Secreting water; -- applied to certain glands. Dunglison. 

AQUITANIAN:  Of or pertaining to Aquitania, now called Gascony. 

AQUOSE:  Watery; aqueous. [R.] Bailey. 

AQUOSITY:  The condition of being wet or watery; wateriness. Huxley. Very little water or aquosity is found in their belly. Holland. 

AR:  Ere; before. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ARA:  The Altar; a southern constellation, south of the tail of the Scorpion. 

ARA:  A name of the great blue and yellow macaw (Ara ararauna), native of South America. 

ARAB:  One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria, Northern Africa, etc. Street Arab, a homeless vagabond in the streets of a city, particularly and outcast boy or girl. Tylor. The ragged outcasts and street Arabs who are shivering in damp doorways. Lond. Sat. Rev. 

ARABA:  A wagon or cart, usually heavy and without springs, and often covered. [Oriental]  The araba of the Turks has its sides of latticework to admit the air Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

ARABESQUE:  A style of ornamentation either painted, inlaid, or carved in low relief. It consists of a pattern in which plants, fruits, foliage, etc., as well as figures of men and animals, real or imaginary, are fantastically interlaced or put together.  Note: It was employed in Roman imperial ornamentation, and appeared, without the animal figures, in Moorish and Arabic decorative art. (See Moresque.) The arabesques of the Renaissance were founded on Greco-Roman work. 

ARABESQUED:  Ornamented in the style of arabesques. 

ARABIAN:  Of or pertaining to Arabia or its inhabitants. Arabian bird, the phenix. Shak. 

ARABIAN:  A native of Arabia; an Arab. 

ARABIC:  Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians. Arabic numerals or figures, the nine digits, 1, 2, 3, etc., and the cipher 0.  -- Gum arabic. See under Gum. 

ARABIC:  The language of the Arabians.  Note: The Arabic is a Semitic language, allied to the Hebrew. It is very widely diffused, being the language in which all Mohammedans must read the Koran, and is spoken as a vernacular tongue in Arabia, Syria, and Northern Africa. 

ARABICAL:  Relating to Arabia; Arabic.  -- A*rab"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ARABIN:  A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gum arabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance.  2. Mucilage, especially that made of gum arabic. 

ARABINOSE:  A sugar of the composition C5H10O5, obtained from cherry gum by boiling it with dilute sulphuric acid. 

ARABISM:  An Arabic idiom peculiarly of language. Stuart. 

ARABIST:  One well versed in the Arabic language or literature; also, formerly, one who followed the Arabic system of surgery. 

ARABLE:  Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to land which has been plowed or tilled. 

ARABLE:  Arable land; plow land. 

ARABY:  The country of Arabia. [Archaic & Poetic] 

ARACANESE:  Of or pertaining to Aracan, a province of British Burmah.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or natives of Aracan. 

ARACARI:  A South American bird, of the genus Pleroglossius, allied to the toucans. There are several species. 

ARACE:  To tear up by the roots; to draw away. [Obs.] Wyatt. 

ARACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to an order of plants, of which the genus Arum is the type. 

ARACHNID:  An arachnidan. Huxley. 

ARACHNIDA:  One of the classes of Arthropoda. See Illustration in Appendix.  Note: They have four pairs of legs, no antennæ nor wings, a pair of mandibles, and one pair of maxillæ or palpi. The head is usually consolidated with the thorax. The respiration is either by trancheæ or by pulmonary sacs, or by both. The class includes three principal orders: Araneina, or spiders; Arthrogastra, including scorpions, etc.; and Acarina, or mites and ticks. 

ARACHNIDAN:  One of the Arachnida. 

ARACHNIDIUM:  The glandular organ in which the material for the web of spiders is secreted. 

ARACHNITIS:  Inflammation of the arachnoid membrane. 

ARACHNOID:  Pertaining to a thin membrane of the brain and spinal cord, between the dura mater and pia mater.  3. (Bot.)  Covered with, or composed of, soft, loose hairs or fibers, so as to resemble a cobweb; cobwebby. 

ARACHNOID:  The arachnoid membrane.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the Arachnoidea. 

ARACHNOIDAL:  Pertaining to the arachnoid membrane; arachnoid. 

ARACHNOIDEA:  Same as Arachnida. 

ARACHNOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to arachnology. 

ARACHNOLOGIST:  One who is versed in, or studies, arachnology. 

ARACHNOLOGY:  The department of zoölogy which treats of spiders and other Arachnida. 

ARAEOMETER:  See Areometer. 

ARAEOSTYLE:  See Intercolumniation. 

ARAEOSYSTYLE:  See Intercolumniation. 

ARAGONESE:  Of or pertaining to Aragon, in Spain, or to its inhabitants.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or natives of Aragon, in Spain. 

ARAGONITE:  A mineral identical in composition with calcite or carbonate of lime, but differing from it in its crystalline form and some of its physical characters. 

ARAGUATO:  A South American monkey, the ursine howler (Mycetes ursinus). See Howler, n., 2. 

ARAISE:  To raise. [Obs.] Shak. 

ARAK:  Same as Arrack.  ARAMAEAN; ARAMEAN Ar`a*mæan, Ar`a*me"an, a. Etym: [L. Aramaeus, Gr. Aram, i. e. Highland, a name given to Syria and Mesopotamia.]  Of or pertaining to the Syrians and Chaldeans, or to their language; Aramaic.  -- n.  A native of Aram. 

ARAMAIC:  Pertaining to Aram, or to the territory, inhabitants, language, or literature of Syria and Mesopotamia; Aramæan; -- specifically applied to the northern branch of the Semitic family of languages, including Syriac and Chaldee.  -- n.  The Aramaic language. 

ARAMAISM:  An idiom of the Aramaic.  ARANEIDA; ARANEOIDEA Ar`a*ne"i*da, Ar`a*ne*oid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)  See Araneina. 

ARANEIDAN:  Of or pertaining to the Araneina or spiders.  -- n.  One of the Araneina; a spider. 

ARANEIFORM:  Having the form of a spider. Kirby. 

ARANEINA:  The order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.  Note: They have mandibles, modified a poison faIllustration in Appendix. 

ARANEOSE:  Of the aspect of a spider's web; arachnoid. 

ARANEOUS:  Cobweblike; extremely thin and delicate, like a cobweb; as, the araneous membrane of the eye. See Arachnoid. Derham. 

ARANGO:  A bead of rough carnelian. Arangoes were formerly imported from Bombay for use in the African slave trade. McCulloch. 

ARAPAIMA:  A large fresh-water food fish of South America. 

ARARA:  The palm (or great black) cockatoo, of Australia (Microglossus aterrimus). 

ARATION:  Plowing; tillage. [R.] Lands are said to be in a state of aration when they are under tillage. Brande. 

ARATORY:  Contributing to tillage. 

ARAUCARIA:  A genus of tall conifers of the pine family. The species are confined mostly to South America and Australia. The wood cells differ from those of other in having the dots in their lateral surfaces in two or three rows, and the dots of contiguous rows alternating. The seeds are edible. 

ARAUCARIAN:  Relating to, or of the nature of, the Araucaria. The earliest conifers in geological history were mostly Araucarian. Dana.  ARBALEST; ARBALIST Ar"ba*lest, Ar"ba*list, n. Etym: [OF. arbaleste, LL. arbalista, for L. arcuballista; arcus bow + ballista a military engine. See Ballista.] (Antiq.)  A crossbow, consisting of a steel bow set in a shaft of wood, furnished with a string and a trigger, and a mechanical device for bending the bow. It served to throw arrows, darts, bullets, etc. [Written also arbalet and arblast.] Fosbroke.  ARBALESTER; ARBALISTER Ar"ba*lest`er, Ar"ba*list`er, n. Etym: [OF. arblastere, OF. arbalestier. See Arbalest.]  A crossbowman. [Obs.] Speed. 

ARBITER:  To act as arbiter between. [Obs.] 

ARBITRABLE:  Capable of being decided by arbitration; determinable. [Archaic] Bp. Hall. 

ARBITRAGE:  A traffic in bills of exchange (see Arbitration of Exchange); also, a traffic in stocks which bear differing values at the same time in different markets. 

ARBITRAL:  Of or relating to an arbiter or an arbitration. [R.] 

ARBITRARILY:  In an arbitrary manner; by will only; despotically; absolutely. 

ARBITRARINESS:  The quality of being arbitrary; despoticalness; tyranny. Bp. Hall. 

ARBITRARIOUS:  Arbitrary; despotic. [Obs.] -- Ar`bi*tra"*ri*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

ARBITRATION:  The hearing and determination of a cause between parties in controversy, by a person or persons chosen by the parties.  Note: This may be done by one person; but it is usual to choose two or three called arbitrators; or for each party to choose one, and these to name a third, who is called the umpire. Their determination is called the award. Bouvier Arbitration bond, a bond which obliges one to abide by the award of an arbitration.  -- Arbitration of Exchange, the operation of converting the currency of one country into that of another, or determining the rate of exchange between such countries or currencies. An arbitrated rate is one determined by such arbitration through the medium of one or more intervening currencies. 

ARBITRATRIX:  A female who arbitrates or judges. 

ARBITRESS:  A female arbiter; an arbitratrix. Milton. 

ARBLAST:  A crossbow. See Arbalest. 

ARBOR:  A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines, branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower. Sir P. Sidney. 

ARBOR:  A tree, as distinguished from a shrub.  2. Etym: [Cf. F. arbre.] (Mech.) (a) An axle or spindle of a wheel or opinion. (b) A mandrel in lathe turning. Knight. Arbor Day, a day appointed for planting trees and shrubs. [U.S.] 

ARBORARY:  Of or pertaining to trees; arboreal. 

ARBORATOR:  One who plants or who prunes trees. [Obs.] Evelyn.  ARBOR DIANAE Ar"bor Di*a"næ. Etym: [L., the tree of Diana, or silver.] (Chem.)  A precipitation of silver, in a beautiful arborescent form. 

ARBORED:  Furnished with an arbor; lined with trees. "An arboreal walk." Pollok. 

ARBORESCENCE:  The state of being arborescent; the resemblance to a tree in minerals, or crystallizations, or groups of crystals in that form; as, the arborescence produced by precipitating silver. 

ARBORESCENT:  Resembling a tree; becoming woody in stalk; dendritic; having crystallizations disposed like the branches and twigs of a tree. "Arborescent hollyhocks." Evelyn. 

ARBORET:  A small tree or shrub. [Obs.] Spenser. Among thick-woven arborets, and flowers Imbordered on each bank. Milton. 

ARBORETUM:  A place in which a collection of rare trees and shrubs is cultivated for scientific or educational purposes. 

ARBORICAL:  Relating to trees. [Obs.] 

ARBORICOLE:  Tree-inhabiting; -- said of certain birds. 

ARBORICULTURAL:  Pertaining to arboriculture. Loudon. 

ARBORICULTURE:  The cultivation of trees and shrubs, chiefly for timber or for ornamental purposes. 

ARBORICULTURIST:  One who cultivates trees. 

ARBORIFORM:  Treelike in shape. 

ARBORIST:  One who makes trees his study, or who is versed in the knowledge of trees. Howell. 

ARBORIZATION:  The appearance or figure of a tree or plant, as in minerals or fossils; a dendrite. 

ARBORIZED:  Having a treelike appearance. "An arborized or moss agate." Wright. 

ARBOROUS:  Formed by trees. [Obs.] From under shady, arborous roof. Milton.  ARBOR VINE Ar"bor vine`.  A species of bindweed.  ARBOR VITAE Ar"bor vi"tæ. Etym: [L., tree of life.]  1. (Bot.)  An evergreen tree of the cypress tribe, genus Thuja. The American species is the T. occidentalis.  2. (Anat.)  The treelike disposition of the gray and white nerve tissues in the cerebellum, as seen in a vertical section. 

ARBUSCLE:  A dwarf tree, one in size between a shrub and a tree; a treelike shrub. Bradley. 

ARBUSCULAR:  Of or pertaining to a dwarf tree; shrublike. Da Costa. 

ARBUSTIVE:  Containing copses of trees or shrubs; covered with shrubs. Bartram.  ARBUTUS; ARBUTE Ar"bu*tus, Ar"bute, n. Etym: [L. arbutus, akin to arbor tree.]  The strawberry tree, a genus of evergreen shrubs, of the Heath family. It has a berry externally resembling the strawberry; the arbute tree. Trailing arbutus (Bot.), a creeping or trailing plant of the Heath family (Epigæa repens), having white or usually rose- colored flowers with a delicate fragrance, growing in small axillary clusters, and appearing early in the spring; in New England known as mayflower; -- called also ground laurel. Gray. 

ARC:  A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of an ellipse.  2. A curvature in the shape of a circular arc or an arch; as, the colored arc (the rainbow); the arc of Hadley's quadrant.  3. An arch. [Obs.] Statues and trophies, and triumphal arcs. Milton.  4. The apparent arc described, above or below the horizon, by the sun or other celestial body. The diurnal arc is described during the daytime, the nocturnal arc during the night. Electric arc, Voltaic arc. See under Voltaic. 

ARCADED:  Furnished with an arcade. 

ARCADIA:  Of or pertaining to Arcadia; pastoral; ideally rural; as, Arcadian simplicity or scenery. 

ARCANE:  Hidden; secret. [Obs.] "The arcane part of divine wisdom." Berkeley. 

ARCANUM:  A secret remedy; an elixir. Dunglison. 

ARCBOUTANT:  A flying buttress. Gwilt. 

ARCH:  Any part of a curved line.  2. (Arch.) (a) Usually a curved member made up of separate wedge-shaped solids, with the joints between them disposed in the direction of the radii of the curve; used to support the wall or other weight above an opening. In this sense arches are segmental, round (i. e., semicircular), or pointed. (b) A flat arch is a member constructed of stones cut into wedges or other shapes so as to support each other without rising in a curve.  Note: Scientifically considered, the arch is a means of spanning an opening by resolving vertical pressure into horizontal or diagonal thrust.  3. Any place covered by an arch; an archway; as, to pass into the arch of a bridge.  4. Any curvature in the form of an arch; as, the arch of the aorta. "Colors of the showery arch." Milton. Triumphal arch, a monumental structure resembling an arched gateway, with one or more passages, erected to commemorate a triumph. 

ARCH:  To form into an arch; to curve.  ARCH- Arch- (ärch-, except in archangel and one or two other words). Etym: [L. arch-, Gr. Arch-.]  A prefix signifying chief, as in archbuilder, archfiend. 

ARCH:  A chief. [Obs.] My worthy arch and patron comes to-night. Shak. 

ARCH:  A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler).  -ARCH -arch. [Gr. 'archo`s chief, commander, 'a`rchein to rule. See Arch, a.]  A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler). 

ARCHAEAN:  Ancient; pertaining to the earliest period in geological history. 

ARCHAEAN:  The earliest period in geological period, extending up to the Lower Silurian. It includes an Azoic age, previous to the appearance of life, and an Eozoic age, including the earliest forms of life.  Note: This is equivalent to the formerly accepted term Azoic, and to the Eozoic of Dawson. 

ARCHAEOGRAPHY:  A description of, or a treatise on, antiquity or antiquities. 

ARCHAEOLITHIC:  Of or pertaining to the earliest Stone age; -- applied to a prehistoric period preceding the Paleolithic age. 

ARCHAEOLOGIAN:  An archæologist.  ARCHAEOLOGIC; ARCHAEOLOGICAL Ar`chæ*o*log"ic, Ar`chæ*o*log"ic*al,  Relating to archæology, or antiquities; as, archæological researches.  -- Ar`*chæ*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ARCHAEOLOGIST:  One versed in archæology; an antiquary. Wright. 

ARCHAEOLOGY:  The science or study of antiquities, esp. prehistoric antiquities, such as the remains of buildings or monuments of an early epoch, inscriptions, implements, and other relics, written manuscripts, etc. 

ARCHAEOPTERYX:  A fossil bird, of the Jurassic period, remarkable for having a long tapering tail of many vertebræ with feathers along each side, and jaws armed with teeth, with other reptilian characteristics. 

ARCHAEOSTOMATOUS:  Applied to a gastrula when the blastorope does not entirely up. 

ARCHAEOZOIC:  Like or belonging to the earliest forms of animal life. 

ARCHAIC:  Of or characterized by antiquity or archaism; antiquated; obsolescent. 

ARCHAICAL:  Archaic. [R.] -- Ar*cha"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ARCHAISTIC:  Like, or imitative of, anything archaic; pertaining to an archaism. 

ARCHAIZE:  To make appear archaic or antique. Mahaffy. 

ARCHANGEL:  A term applied to several different species of plants (Angelica archangelica, Lamium album, etc.). 

ARCHANGELIC:  Of or pertaining to archangels; of the nature of, or resembling, an archangel. Milton. 

ARCHBISHOP:  A chief bishop; a church dignitary of the first class (often called a metropolitan or primate) who superintends the conduct of the suffragan bishops in his province, and also exercises episcopal authority in his own diocese. 

ARCHBISHOPRIC:  The jurisdiction or office of an archbishop; the see or province over which archbishop exercises archiepiscopal authority.  ARCH BRICK Arch" brick`.  A wedge-shaped brick used in the building of an arch. 

ARCHBUTLER:  A chief butler; -- an officer of the German empire. 

ARCHCHAMBERLAIN:  A chief chamberlain; -- an officer of the old German empire, whose office was similar to that of the great chamberlain in England. 

ARCHCHANCELLOR:  A chief chancellor; -- an officer in the old German empire, who presided over the secretaries of the court. 

ARCHCHEMIC:  Of supreme chemical powers. [R.] "The archchemic sun." Milton. 

ARCHDEACON:  In England, an ecclesiastical dignitary, next in rank below a bishop, whom he assists, and by whom he is appointed, though with independent authority. Blackstone. 

ARCHDEACONRY:  The district, office, or residence of an archdeacon. See Benefice. Every diocese is divided into archdeaconries. Blackstone. 

ARCHDEACONSHIP:  The office of an archdeacon. 

ARCHDIOCESE:  The diocese of an archbishop. 

ARCHDUCAL:  Of or pertaining to an archduke or archduchy. 

ARCHDUCHESS:  The consort of an archduke; also, a princess of the imperial family of Austria. See Archduke. 

ARCHDUCHY:  The territory of an archduke or archduchess. Ash. 

ARCHDUKE:  A prince of the imperial family of Austria.  Note: Formerly this title was assumed by the rulers of Lorraine, Brabant, Austria, etc. It is now appropriated to the descendants of the imperial family of Austria through the make line, all such male descendants being styled archduke, and all such female descendants archduchesses. 

ARCHDUKEDOM:  An archduchy. 

ARCHEBIOSIS:  To origination of living matter from non-living. See Abiogenesis. Bastian. 

ARCHED:  Made with an arch or curve; covered with an arch; as, an arched door. 

ARCHEGONIAL:  Relating to the archegonium. 

ARCHEGONIUM:  The pistillidium or female organ in the higher cryptogamic plants, corresponding to the pistil in flowering plants. 

ARCHEGONY:  Spontaneous generation; abiogenesis. 

ARCHELOGY:  The science of, or a treatise on, first principles. Fleming. 

ARCHENCEPHALA:  The division that includes man alone. R. Owen. 

ARCHENEMY:  A principal enemy. Specifically, Satan, the grand adversary of mankind. Milton. 

ARCHENTERIC:  Relating to the archenteron; as, archenteric invagination. 

ARCHENTERON:  The primitive enteron or undifferentiated digestive sac of a gastrula or other embryo. See Illust. under Invagination.  ARCHEOLOGY; ARCHEOLOGICAL Ar`che*ol"o*gy, n., Ar`che*o*log`ic*al, a.  Same as Archæology, etc. 

ARCHER:  A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow. 

ARCHERESS:  A female archer. Markham.  ARCHER FISH Arch"er fish`. (Zoöl.)  A small fish (Toxotes jaculator), of the East Indies; -- so called from its ejecting drops of water from its mouth at its prey. The name is also applied to Chætodon rostratus. 

ARCHERSHIP:  The art or skill of an archer. 

ARCHES:  pl. of Arch, n. Court of arches, or Arches Court (Eng. Law), the court of appeal of the Archbishop of Canterbury, whereof the judge, who sits as deputy to the archbishop, is called the Dean of the Arches, because he anciently held his court in the church of St. Mary-le-Bow (de arcubus). It is now held in Westminster. Mozley & W. 

ARCHETYPAL:  Of or pertaining to an archetype; consisting a model (real or ideal) or pattern; original. "One archetypal mind." Gudworth.  Note: Among Platonists, the archetypal world is the world as it existed as an idea of God before the creation. 

ARCHETYPALLY:  With reference to the archetype; originally. "Parts archetypally distinct." Dana. 

ARCHETYPE:  The standard weight or coin by which others are adjusted.  3. (Biol.)  The plan or fundamental structure on which a natural group of animals or plants or their systems of organs are assumed to have been constructed; as, the vertebrate archetype. 

ARCHETYPICAL:  Relating to an archetype; archetypal. 

ARCHEUS:  The vital principle or force which (according to the Paracelsians) presides over the growth and continuation of living beings; the anima mundi or plastic power of the old philosophers. [Obs.] Johnson.  ARCHI- Ar"chi-. Etym: [L., archi-, Gr. arce-, erce-, OHG. erzi-.]  A prefix signifying chief, arch; as, architect, archiepiscopal. In Biol. and Anat. it usually means primitive, original, ancestral; as, archipterygium, the primitive fin or wing. 

ARCHIANNELIDA:  A group of Annelida remarkable for having no external segments or distinct ventral nerve ganglions. 

ARCHIATER:  Chief physician; -- a term applied, on the continent of Europe, to the first or body physician of princes and to the first physician of some cities. P. Cyc.  ARCHIBALD WHEEL Ar"chi*bald wheel.  A metal-hubbed wheel of great strength and elasticity, esp. adapted for artillery carriages and motor cars. 

ARCHIBLASTULA:  A hollow blastula, supposed to be the primitive form; a c 

ARCHICAL:  Chief; primary; primordial. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

ARCHIDIACONAL:  Of or pertaining to an archdeacon. This offense is liable to be censured in an archidiaconal visitation. Johnson. 

ARCHIEPISCOPAL:  Of or pertaining to an archbishop; as, Canterbury is an archiepiscopal see. 

ARCHIEPISCOPALITY:  The station or dignity of an archbishop; archiepiscopacy. Fuller. 

ARCHIEPISCOPATE:  The office of an archbishop; an archbishopric. 

ARCHIEREY:  The higher order of clergy in Russia, including metropolitans, archbishops, and bishops. Pinkerton. 

ARCHILOCHIAN:  Of or pertaining to the satiric Greek poet Archilochus; as, Archilochian meter.  ARCHIMAGE; ARCHIMAGUS Ar"chi*mage, Ar`chi*ma"gus, n. Etym: [NL.; pref. archi- + L. magus, Gr.  1. The high priest of the Persian Magi, or worshipers of fire.  2. A great magician, wizard, or enchanter. Spenser. 

ARCHIMEDEAN:  Of or pertaining to Archimedes, a celebrated Greek philosopher; constructed on the principle of Archimedes' screw; as, Archimedean drill, propeller, etc. Archimedean screw, or Archimedes' screw, an instrument, said to have been invented by Archimedes, for raising water, formed by winding a flexible tube round a cylinder in the form of a screw. When the screw is placed in an inclined position, and the lower end immersed in water, by causing the screw to revolve, the water is raised to the upper end. Francis. 

ARCHIMEDES:  An extinct genus of Bryzoa characteristic of the subcarboniferous rocks. Its form is that of a screw. 

ARCHING:  Hogging; -- opposed to sagging. 

ARCHIPELAGIC:  Of or pertaining to an archipelago. 

ARCHIPTERYGIUM:  The primitive form of fin, like that of Ceratodus. 

ARCHITECTIVE:  Used in building; proper for building. Derham.  ARCHITECTONIC; ARCHITECTONICAL Ar`chi*tec*ton"ic, Ar`chi*tec*ton"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. architectonicus, Gr. Architect.]  1. Pertaining to a master builder, or to architecture; evincing skill in designing or construction; constructive. "Architectonic wisdom." Boyle. These architectonic functions which we had hitherto thought belonged. J. C. Shairp.  2. Relating to the systemizing of knowledge. 

ARCHITECTONICS:  The science of architecture. 

ARCHITECTOR:  An architect. [Obs.] North. 

ARCHITECTRESS:  A female architect. 

ARCHITECTURAL:  Of or pertaining to the art of building; conformed to the rules of architecture.  -- Ar`chi*tec"tur*al*ly, adv. 

ARCHITEUTHIS:  A genus of gigantic cephalopods, allied to the squids, found esp. in the North Atlantic and about New Zealand. 

ARCHITRAVED:  Furnished with an architrave. Cowper. 

ARCHIVAL:  Pertaining to, or contained in, archives or records. Tooke. 

ARCHIVE:  The place in which public records or historic documents are kept. Our words . . . . become records in God's court, and are laid up in his archives as witnesses. Gov. of Tongue.  2. pl.  Public records or documents preserved as evidence of facts; as, the archives of a country or family. [Rarely used in sing.] Some rotten archive, rummaged out of some seldom explored press. Lamb.  Syn.  -- Registers; records; chronicles. 

ARCHIVIST:  A keeper of archives or records. [R.] 

ARCHIVOLT:  A large theorbo, or double-necked lute, formerly in use, having the bass strings doubled with an octave, and the higher strings with a unison. 

ARCHLY:  In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness; slyly; waggishly. Archly the maiden smiled. Longfellow. 

ARCHMARSHAL:  The grand marshal of the old German empire, a dignity that to the Elector of Saxony. 

ARCHNESS:  The quality of being arch; cleverness; sly humor free from malice; waggishness. Goldsmith. 

ARCHON:  One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, by preëminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates.  -- Ar*chon"tic, a. 

ARCHONSHIP:  The office of an archon. Mitford. 

ARCHONTATE:  An archon's term of office. Gibbon. 

ARCHONTS:  The group including man alone. 

ARCHOPLASM:  The substance from which attraction spheres develop in mitotic cell division, and of which they consist. 

ARCHPRELATE:  An archbishop or other chief prelate. 

ARCHPRESBYTER:  Same as Archpriest. 

ARCHPRESBYTERY:  The absolute dominion of presbytery. Milton. 

ARCHPRIEST:  A chief priest; also, a kind of vicar, or a rural dean. 

ARCHPRIMATE:  The chief primate. Milton.  ARCH STONE Arch" stone`.  A wedge-shaped stone used in an arch; a voussoir. 

ARCHTRAITOR:  A chief or transcendent traitor. I. Watts. 

ARCHTREASURER:  A chief treasurer. Specifically, the great treasurer of the German empire. 

ARCHWAY:  A way or passage under an arch. 

ARCHWIFE:  A big, masculine wife. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ARCHWISE:  Arch-shaped. 

ARCHY:  Arched; as, archy brows. 

ARCHY:  A suffix properly meaning a rule, ruling, as in monarchy, the rule of one only. Cf. -arch. 

ARCIFORM:  Having the form of an arch; curved.  ARC LIGHT Arc light. (Elec.)  The light of an arc lamp. 

ARCOGRAPH:  An instrument for drawing a circular arc without the use of a central point; a cyclograph. 

ARCTATION:  Constriction or contraction of some natural passage, as in constipation from inflammation. 

ARCTIC:  Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellation called the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle, region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature.  Note: The arctic circle is a lesser circle, parallel to the equator, 23º 28' from the north pole. This and the antarctic circle are called the polar circles, and between these and the poles lie the frigid zones. See Zone. 

ARCTISCA:  A group of Arachnida. See Illust. in Appendix. 

ARCTOGEAL:  Of or pertaining to arctic lands; as, the arctogeal fauna. 

ARCTOIDEA:  A group of the Carnivora, that includes the bears, weasels, etc. 

ARCTURUS:  A fixed star of the first magnitude in the constellation Boötes.  Note: Arcturus has sometimes been incorrectly used as the name of the constellation, or even of Ursa Major. Canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons [Rev. Ver.: "the Bear with her train"]. Job xxxviii. 32. 

ARCUAL:  Of or pertaining to an arc. Arcual measure of an angle (Math.), that in which the unit angle has its measuring arc equal to the radius of the circle.  ARCUATE; ARCUATED Arc"u*ate, Arc"u*a`ted(#), a. Etym: [L. arcuatus, p. p. of arcuare to shape like a bow, fr. arcus. See Arc.]  Bent or curved in the form of a bow. "Arcuate stalks." Gray. 

ARCUATELY:  In the form of a bow. 

ARCUATION:  A mode of propagating trees by bending branches to the ground, and covering the small shoots with earth; layering. Chambers. 

ARCUBALIST:  A crossbow. Fosbroke. 

ARCUBALISTER:  A crossbowman; one who used the arcubalist. Camden. 

ARCUBUS:  See Arquebus. [Obs.]  -ARD; -ART -ard, -art.  The termination of many English words; as, coward, reynard, drunkard, mostly from the French, in which language this ending is of German origin, being orig. the same word as English hard. It usually has the sense of one who has to a high or excessive degree the quality expressed by the root; as, braggart, sluggard. 

ARDASSINE:  A very fine sort of Persian silk. 

ARDENTLY:  In an ardent manner; eagerly; with warmth; affectionately; passionately. 

ARDENTNESS:  Ardency. [R.]  ARDOIS SYSTEM Ar`dois" sys"tem. (Naut.)  A widely used system of electric night signals in which a series of double electric lamps (white and red) is arranged vertically on a mast, and operated from a keyboard below. 

ARDOR:  Bright and effulgent spirits; seraphim. [Thus used by Milton.]  Syn.  -- Fervor; warmth; eagerness. See Fervor. 

ARDUOUSLY:  In an arduous manner; with difficulty or laboriousness. 

ARDUOUSNESS:  The quality of being arduous; difficulty of execution. 

ARDUROUS:  Burning; ardent. [R.] Lo! further on, Where flames the arduous Spirit of Isidore. Cary. 

ARE:  The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be; but etymologically a different word from be, or was. Am, art, are, and is, all come from the root as. 

ARE:  The unit of superficial measure, being a square of which each side is ten meters in length; 100 square meters, or about 119.6 square yards. 

AREA:  The superficial contents of any figure; the surface included within any given lines; superficial extent; as, the area of a square or a triangle.  6. (Biol.)  A spot or small marked space; as, the germinative area.  7. Extent; scope; range; as, a wide area of thought. The largest area of human history and man's common nature. F. Harrison. Dry area. See under Dry.  AREAD; AREED A*read", A*reed", v. t. Etym: [OE. areden, AS. ar to interpret. See Read.]  1. To tell, declare, explain, or interpret; to divine; to guess; as, to aread a riddle or a dream. [Obs.] Therefore more plain aread this doubtful case. Spenser.  2. To read. [Obs.] Drayton.  3. To counsel, advise, warn, or direct. But mark what I aread thee now. Avaunt! Milton.  4. To decree; to adjudge. [Archaic] Ld. Lytton. 

AREAL:  Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areas or spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves). 

AREAR:  To raise; to set up; to stir up. [Obs.] 

AREAR:  Backward; in or to the rear; behindhand. Spenser. 

ARECA:  A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut, or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the Piper Betle and lime.  ARECOLINE; ARECOLIN A*re"co*line, A*re"co*lin, n. [From NL. Areca, a genus of palms bearing betel nut.]  An oily liquid substance, C8H13O2N, the chief alkaloid of the betel nut, to which the latter owes its anthelmintic action. 

AREEK:  In a reeking condition. Swift. 

AREFACTION:  The act of drying, or the state of growing dry. The arefaction of the earth. Sir M. Hale. 

AREFY:  To dry, or make dry. Bacon. 

ARENA:  The area in the central part of an amphitheater, in which the gladiators fought and other shows were exhibited; -- so called because it was covered with sand.  2. Any place of public contest or exertion; any sphere of action; as, the arenaof debate; the arena of life.  3. (Med.)  "Sand" or "gravel" in the kidneys. 

ARENACEOUS:  Sandy or consisting largely of sand; of the nature of sand; easily disintegrating into sand; friable; as, arenaceous limestone. 

ARENARIOUS:  Sandy; as, arenarious soil. 

ARENATION:  A sand bath; application of hot sand to the body. Dunglison. 

ARENDATOR:  In some provinces of Russia, one who farms the rents or revenues.  Note: A person who rents an estate belonging to the crown is called crown arendator. Tooke.  ARENG; ARENGA A*reng", A*ren"ga, n. Etym: [Malayan.]  A palm tree (Saguerus saccharifer) which furnishes sago, wine, and fibers for ropes; the gomuti palm. 

ARENICOLITE:  An ancient wormhole in sand, preserved in the rocks. Dana. 

ARENILITIC:  Of or pertaining to sandstone; as, arenilitic mountains. Kirwan. 

ARENOSE:  Sandy; full of sand. Johnson. 

ARENULOUS:  Full of fine sand; like sand. [Obs.] 

AREOLA:  The colored ring around the nipple, or around a vesicle or pustule. 

AREOLAR:  Pertaining to, or like, an areola; filled with interstices or areolæ. reolar tissue (Anat.), a form of fibrous connective tissue in which the fibers are loosely arranged with numerous spaces, or areolæ, between them.  AREOLATE; AREOLATED A*re"o*late, A*re"o*la*ted, a. Etym: [L. areola: cf. F. aréole.]  Divided into small spaces or areolations, as the wings of insects, the leaves of plants, or the receptacle of compound flowers. 

AREOLE:  Same as Areola. 

AREOLET:  A small inclosed area; esp. one of the small spaces on the wings of insects, circumscribed by the veins. 

AREOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the specific gravity of fluids; a form hydrometer.  AREOMETRIC; AREOMETRICAL A`re*o*met"ric, A`re*o*met"ric*al, a.  Pertaining to, or measured by, an areometer. 

AREOMETRY:  The art or process of measuring the specific gravity of fluids. 

AREOPAGIST:  See Areopagite. 

AREOPAGITE:  A member of the Areopagus. Acts xvii. 34. 

AREOPAGITIC:  Pertaining to the Areopagus. Mitford. 

AREOPAGUS:  The highest judicial court at Athens. Its sessions were held on Mars' Hill. Hence, any high court or tribunal 

AREOSTYLE:  See Intercolumniation, and Aræostyle. 

AREOSYSTYLE:  See Intercolumniation, and Aræosystyle. 

ARERE:  See Arear. [Obs.] Ellis. 

AREST:  A support for the spear when couched for the attack. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ARET:  To reckon; to ascribe; to impute. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ARETAICS:  The ethical theory which excludes all relations between virtue and happiness; the science of virtue; -- contrasted with eudemonics. J. Grote. 

ARETE:  An acute and rugged crest of a mountain range or a subsidiary ridge between two mountain gorges. 

ARETOLOGY:  That part of moral philosophy which treats of virtue, its nature, and the means of attaining to it. 

AREW:  In a row. [Obs.] "All her teeth arew." Spenser. 

ARGAL:  Crude tartar. See Argol. 

ARGAL:  A ludicrous corruption of the Latin word ergo, therefore. Shak.  ARGAL; ARGALI Ar"gal, Ar"ga*li, n. Etym: [Mongolian.] (Zoöl.)  A species of wild sheep (Ovis ammon, or O. argali), remarkable for its large horns. It inhabits the mountains of Siberia and central Asia.  Note: The bearded argali is the aoudad. See Aoudad. The name is also applied to the bighorn sheep of the Rocky Mountains. See Bighorn. 

ARGALA:  The adjutant bird.  ARGAND LAMP Ar"gand lamp`. Etym: [Named from the inventor, Aimé Argand of Geneva.]  A lamp with a circular hollow wick and glass chimney which allow a current of air both inside and outside of the flame. Argand burner, a burner for an Argand lamp, or a gas burner in which the principle of that lamp is applied. 

ARGAS:  A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. The famous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that of Central America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje. 

ARGEAN:  Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo. 

ARGENT:  Whiteness; anything that is white. The polished argent of her breast. Tennyson.  3. (Her.)  The white color in coats of arms, intended to represent silver, or, figuratively, purity, innocence, beauty, or gentleness; -- represented in engraving by a plain white surface. Weale. 

ARGENT:  Made of silver; of a silvery color; white; shining. Yonder argent fields above. Pope. 

ARGENTAL:  Of or pertaining to silver; resembling, containing, or combined with, silver. 

ARGENTALIUM:  A (patented) alloy of aluminium and silver, with a density of about 2.9.  ARGENTAMINE; ARGENTAMIN Ar*gen"ta*mine, Ar*gen"ta*min, n. [L. argentum silver + E. amine.] (Med.)  A solution of silver phosphate in an aqueous solution of ethylene diamine, used as an antiseptic astringent and as a disinfectant. 

ARGENTAN:  An alloy of nicked with copper and zinc; German silver. 

ARGENTATE:  Silvery white. Gray. 

ARGENTATION:  A coating or overlaying with silver. [R.] Johnson. 

ARGENTIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, silver; -- said of certain compounds of silver in which this metal has its lowest proportion; as, argentic chloride. 

ARGENTIFEROUS:  Producing or containing silver; as, argentiferous lead ore or veins. 

ARGENTINE:  A siliceous variety of calcite, or carbonate of lime, having a silvery-white, pearly luster, and a waving or curved lamellar structure.  2. White metal coated with silver. Simmonds.  3. (Zoöl.)  A fish of Europe (Maurolicus Pennantii) with silvery scales. The name is also applied to various fishes of the genus Argentina.  4. A citizen of the Argentine Republic. 

ARGENTITE:  Sulphide of silver; -- also called vitreous silver, or silver glance. It has a metallic luster, a lead-gray color, and is sectile like lead. 

ARGENTOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, silver; -- said of certain silver compounds in which silver has a higher proportion than in argentic compounds; as, argentous chloride. 

ARGENTRY:  Silver plate or vessels. [Obs.] Bowls of frosted argentry. Howell. 

ARGIL:  Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. See Clay. 

ARGILLACEOUS:  Of the nature of clay; consisting of, or containing, argil or clay; clayey. Argillaceous sandstone (Geol.), a sandstone containing much clay.  -- Argillaceous iron ore, the clay ironstone.  -- Argillaceous schist or state. See Argillite. 

ARGILLIFEROUS:  Producing clay; -- applied to such earths as abound with argil. Kirwan. 

ARGILLITE:  Argillaceous schist or slate; clay slate. Its colors is bluish or blackish gray, sometimes greenish gray, brownish red, etc.  -- Ar`gil*lit"ic, a.  ARGILLO-AREENACEOUS Ar*gil`lo-are`e*na"ceous, a.  Consisting of, or containing, clay and sand, as a soil.  ARGILLO-CALCAREOUS Ar*gil`lo-cal*ca"re*ous, a.  Consisting of, or containing, clay and calcareous earth.  ARGILLO-FERRUGINOUS Ar*gil`lo-fer*ru"gi*nous, a.  Containing clay and iron. 

ARGILLOUS:  Argillaceous; clayey. Sir T. Browne. 

ARGIVE:  Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece.  -- n.  A native of Argos. Often used as a generic term, equivalent to Grecian or Greek. 

ARGO:  The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-four companions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece.  2. (Astron.)  A large constellation in the southern hemisphere, called also Argo Navis. In modern astronomy it is replaced by its three divisions, Carina, Puppis, and Vela. 

ARGOAN:  Pertaining to the ship Argo. 

ARGOILE:  Potter's clay. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ARGOL:  Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar is prepared. It exists in the juice of grapes, and is deposited from wines on the sides of the casks. Ure. 

ARGOLIC:  Pertaining to Argolis, a district in the Peloponnesus. 

ARGON:  A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphere and remarkable for its chemical inertness. Rayleigh and Ramsay. 

ARGONAUT:  A cephalopod of the genus Argonauta. 

ARGONAUTA:  A genus of Cephalopoda. The shell is called paper nautilus or paper sailor.  Note: The animal has much resemblance to an Octopus. It has eight arms, two of which are expanded at the end and clasp the shell, but are never elevated in the air for sails as was formerly supposed. The creature swims beneath the surface by means of a jet of water, like other cephalopods. The male has no shell, and is much smaller than the female. See Hectocotylus. 

ARGONAUTIC:  Of or pertaining to the Argonauts. 

ARGOSY:  A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size. Where your argosies with portly sail . . . Do overpeer the petty traffickers. Shak. 

ARGOT:  A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves, tramps, and vagabonds; flash. 

ARGUABLE:  Capable of being argued; admitting of debate. 

ARGUER:  One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant. 

ARGULUS:  A genus of copepod Crustacea, parasitic of fishes; a fish louse. See Branchiura. 

ARGUMENT:  The quantity on which another quantity in a table depends; as, the altitude is the argument of the refraction.  7. (Math.)  The independent variable upon whose value that of a function depends. Brande & C. 

ARGUMENT:  To make an argument; to argue. [Obs.] Gower. 

ARGUMENTABLE:  Admitting of argument. [R.] Chalmers. 

ARGUMENTAL:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, argument; argumentative. 

ARGUMENTIZE:  To argue or discuss. [Obs.] Wood. 

ARGUS:  A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes, who has placed by Juno to guard Io. His eyes were transplanted to the peacock's tail.  2. One very vigilant; a guardian always watchful.  3. (Zoöl.)  A genus of East Indian pheasants. The common species (A. giganteus) is remarkable for the great length and beauty of the wing and tail feathers of the male. The species A. Grayi inhabits Borneo.  ARGUS-EYED Ar"gus-eyed, a.  Extremely observant; watchful; sharp-sighted.  ARGUS SHELL Ar"gus shell` . (Zoöl.)  A species of shell (Cypræa argus), beautifully variegated with spots resembling those in a peacock's tail. 

ARGUTATION:  Caviling; subtle disputation. [Obs.] 

ARGUTELY:  In a subtle; shrewdly. 

ARGUTENESS:  Acuteness. Dryden.  ARHIZAL; ARHIZOUS; ARHYTHMIC; ARHYTHMOUS A*rhi"zal, A*rhi"zous, A*rhyth"*mic, A*rhyth"mous, a.  See Arrhizal, Arrhizous, Arrhythmic, Arrhythmous. 

ARIA:  An air or song; a melody; a tune.  Note: The Italian term is now mostly used for the more elaborate accompanied melodies sung by a single voice, in operas, oratorios, cantatas, anthems, etc., and not so much for simple airs or tunes. 

ARIAN:  See Aryan. 

ARIAN:  Pertaining to Arius, a presbyter of the church of Alexandria, in the fourth century, or to the doctrines of Arius, who held Christ to be inferior to God the Father in nature and dignity, though the first and noblest of all created beings.  -- n.  One who adheres to or believes the doctrines of Arius. Mosheim. 

ARIANISM:  The doctrines of the Arians. 

ARIANIZE:  To admit or accept the tenets of the Arians; to become an Arian. 

ARIANIZE:  To convert to Arianism. 

ARICINE:  An alkaloid, first found in white cinchona bark. 

ARID:  Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren. "An arid waste." Thomson. 

ARIDNESS:  Aridity; dryness.  ARIEL; ARIEL GAZELLE A"ri*el, n., or; A"ri*el ga*zelle". Etym: [Ar. aryil, ayyil, stag.] (Zoöl.) A)  A variety of the gazelle (Antilope, or Gazella, dorcas), found in Arabia and adjacent countries. (b) A squirrel-like Australian marsupial, a species of Petaurus. (c) A beautiful Brazilian toucan Ramphastos ariel). 

ARIES:  A battering-ram. 

ARIETATE:  To butt, as a ram. [Obs.] 

ARIETATION:  A short aria, or air. "A military ariette." Sir W. Scott. 

ARIGHT:  Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake or crime; as, to worship God aright.  ARIL; ARILLUS Ar"il, A*ril"lus, n. Etym: [From LL. arilli dry grapes, perh. fr. L. aridus dry: cf. F,. arille.] (Bot.)  A exterior covering, forming a false coat or appendage to a seed, as the loose, transparent bag inclosing the seed or the white water lily. The mace of the nutmeg is also an aril. Gray.  ARILLATE; ARILLATED; ARILED Ar"il*late. Ar"il*la`ted, Ar"iled, a. Etym: [Cf. NL. arillatus, F. arillé.]  Having an aril. 

ARILLODE:  A false aril; an aril originating from the micropyle instead of from the funicle or chalaza of the ovule. The mace of the nutmeg is an arillode. 

ARIMAN:  See Ahriman. 

ARIOLATION:  A soothsaying; a foretelling. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ARIOSE:  Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony. Mendelssohn wants the ariose beauty of Handel; vocal melody is not his forte; the interest of his airs harmonic. Foreign Quart. Rev. 

ARIOSO:  In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose. 

ARISE:  Rising. [Obs.] Drayton. 

ARIST:  of Arise, for ariseth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ARISTA:  An awn. Gray. 

ARISTARCH:  A severe critic. Knowles. 

ARISTARCHIAN:  Severely critical. 

ARISTARCHY:  Severely criticism. 

ARISTARCHY:  Severe criticism. [Obs.] Sir J. Harrington. 

ARISTATE:  Having a pointed, beardlike process, as the glumes of wheat; awned. Gray.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having a slender, sharp, or spinelike tip. 

ARISTOLOGY:  The science of dining. Quart. Rev. 

ARISTOPHANIC:  Of or pertaining to Aristophanes, the Athenian comic poet. 

ARISTOTELIAN:  Of or pertaining to Aristotle, the famous Greek philosopher (384-322 b. c.).  -- n.  A follower of Aristotle; a Peripatetic. See Peripatetic. 

ARISTOTELIANISM:  The philosophy of Aristotle, otherwise called the Peripatetic philosophy. 

ARISTOTELIC:  Pertaining to Aristotle or to his philosophy. "Aristotelic usage." Sir W. Hamilton.  ARISTOTLE'S LANTERN Ar"is*to`tle's lan"tern. (Zoöl.)  The five united jaws and accessory ossicles of certain sea urchins. 

ARISTOTYPE:  Orig., a printing-out process using paper coated with silver chloride in gelatin; now, any such process using silver salts in either collodion or gelatin; also, a print so made. 

ARISTULATE:  Pertaining a short beard or awn. Gray. 

ARITHMANCY:  Divination by means of numbers. 

ARITHMETICAL:  Of or pertaining to arithmetic; according to the rules or method of arithmetic. Arithmetical complement of a logarithm. See Logarithm.  -- Arithmetical mean. See Mean.  -- Arithmetical progression. See Progression.  -- Arithmetical proportion. See Proportion. 

ARITHMETICALLY:  Conformably to the principles or methods of arithmetic. 

ARITHMETICIAN:  One skilled in arithmetic. 

ARITHMOMANCY:  Arithmancy. 

ARITHMOMETER:  A calculating machine. 

ARK:  The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, which supported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied the most sacred place in the sanctuary. In it Moses placed the two tables of stone containing the ten commandments. Called also the Ark of the Covenant.  3. The large, chestlike vessel in which Noah and his family were preserved during the Deluge. Gen. vi. Hence: Any place of refuge.  4. A large flatboat used on Western American rivers to transport produce to market. 

ARKITE:  Belonging to the ark. [R.] Faber. 

ARKOSE:  A sandstone derived from the disintegration of granite or gneiss, and characterized by feldspar fragments. -- Ar*kos"ic (#), a.  ARK SHELL Ark" shell`. (Zoöl.)  A marine bivalve shell belonging to the genus Arca and its allies. 

ARLES:  An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain. [Scot.] Arles penny, earnest money given to servants. Kersey. 

ARM:  To provide one's self with arms, weapons, or means of attack or resistance; to take arms. " 'Tis time to arm." Shak. 

ARMADA:  A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanish fleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558. 

ARMADO:  Armada. [Obs.] 

ARMAMENT:  All the cannon and small arms collectively, with their equipments, belonging to a ship or a fortification.  3. Any equipment for resistance. 

ARMAMENTARY:  An armory; a magazine or arsenal. [R.] 

ARMATURE:  A piece of soft iron used to connect the two poles of a magnet, or electro-magnet, in order to complete the circuit, or to receive and apply the magnetic force. In the ordinary horseshoe magnet, it serves to prevent the dissipation of the magnetic force.  3. (Arch.)  Iron bars or framing employed for the consolidation of a building, as in sustaining slender columns, holding up canopies, etc. Oxf. Gloss. 

ARMCHAIR:  A chair with arms to support the elbows or forearms. Tennyson. 

ARMED:  Having horns, beak, talons, etc; -- said of beasts and birds of prey. Armed at all points (Blazoning), completely incased in armor, sometimes described as armed cap-à-pie. Cussans.  -- Armed en flute. (Naut.) See under Flute.  -- Armed magnet, a magnet provided with an armature.  -- Armed neutrality. See under Neutrality. 

ARMENIAN:  Of or pertaining to Armenia. Armenian bole, a soft clayey earth of a bright red color found in Armenia, Tuscany, etc.  -- Armenian stone. (a) The commercial name of lapis lazuli. (b) Emery. 

ARMENIAN:  An adherent of the Armenian Church, an organization similar in some doctrines and practices to the Greek Church, in others to the Roman Catholic. 

ARMET:  A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries. 

ARMFUL:  As much as the arm can hold. 

ARMGAUNT:  With gaunt or slender legs. "An armgaunt steed." Shak.  Note: This word is peculiar to Shakespeare. Its meaning has not yet been satisfactorily explained.  ARM-GRET Arm"-gret`, a.  Great as a man's arm. [Obs.] A wreath of gold, arm-gret. Chaucer. 

ARMIFEROUS:  Bearing arms or weapons. [R.] 

ARMIGER:  Formerly, an armor bearer, as of a knight, an esquire who bore his shield and rendered other services. In later use, one next in degree to a knight, and entitled to armorial bearings. The term is now superseded by esquire. Jacob. 

ARMIGEROUS:  Bearing arms. [R.] They belonged to the armigerous part of the population, and were entitled to write themselves Esquire. De Quincey. 

ARMILLA:  A ring of hair or feathers on the legs. 

ARMILLARY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a bracelet or ring; consisting of rings or circles. Armillary sphere, an ancient astronomical machine composed of an assemblage of rings, all circles of the same sphere, designed to represent the positions of the important circles of the celestial sphere. Nichol. 

ARMING:  A piece of tallow placed in a cavity at the lower end of a sounding lead, to bring up the sand, shells, etc., of the sea bottom. Totten.  3. pl. (Naut.)  Red dress cloths formerly hung fore and aft outside of a ship's upper works on holidays. Arming press (Bookbinding), a press for stamping titles and designs on the covers of books. 

ARMINIAN:  Of or pertaining to Arminius of his followers, or to their doctrines. See note under Arminian, n. 

ARMINIAN:  One who holds the tenets of Arminius, a Dutch divine (b. 1560, d. 1609).  Note: The Arminian doctrines are: 1. Conditional election and reprobation, in opposition to absolute predestination. 2. Universal redemption, or that the atonement was made by Christ for all mankind, though none but believers can be partakers of the benefit. 3. That man, in order to exercise true faith, must be regenerated and renewed by the operation of the Holy Spirit, which is the gift of God. 4. That man may resist divine grace. 5. That man may relapse from a state of grace. 

ARMINIANISM:  The religious doctrines or tenets of the Arminians. 

ARMIPOTENCE:  Power in arms. [R.] Johnson. 

ARMIPOTENT:  Powerful in arms; mighty in battle. The temple stood of Mars armipotent. Dryden.  ARMISONANT; ARMISONOUS Ar*mis"o*nant, Ar*mis"o*nous, a. Etym: [L. armisonus; arma arms + sonare (p. pr. sonans) to sound.]  Rustling in arms; resounding with arms. [Obs.] 

ARMISTICE:  A cessation of arms for a short time, by convention; a temporary suspension of hostilities by agreement; a truce. 

ARMONIAC:  Ammoniac. [Obs.] 

ARMOR:  One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger. Judg. ix. 54. 

ARMORED:  Clad with armor.  ARMORED CRUISER Ar"mored cruis"er. (Nav.)  A man-of-war carrying a large coal supply, and more or less protected from the enemy's shot by iron or steel armor. There is no distinct and accepted classification distinguishing armored and protected cruisers from each other, except that the first have more or heavier armor than the second. 

ARMORIAL:  Belonging to armor, or to the heraldic arms or escutcheon of a family. Figures with armorial signs of race and birth. Wordsworth. Armorial bearings. See Arms, 4.  ARMORIC; ARMORICAN Ar*mor"ic, Ar*mor"i*can, a. Etym: [L. Armoricus, fr. Celtic ar on, at + mor sea.]  Of or pertaining to the northwestern part of France (formerly called Armorica, now Bretagne or Brittany), or to its people.  -- n.  The language of the Armoricans, a Celtic dialect which has remained to the present times. 

ARMORICAN:  A native of Armorica. 

ARMORIST:  One skilled in coat armor or heraldry. Cussans.  ARMOR-PLATED Ar"mor-plat`ed, a.  Covered with defensive plates of metal, as a ship of war; steel-clad. This day will be launched . . . the first armor-plated steam frigate in the possession of Great Britain. Times (Dec. 29, 1860). 

ARMORY:  A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical. Simmonds. 

ARMPIT:  The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; the axilla. 

ARMRACK:  A frame, generally vertical, for holding small arms. 

ARMS:  Anything which a man takes in his hand in anger, to strike or assault another with; an aggressive weapon. Cowell. Blackstone.  4. (Her.)  The ensigns armorial of a family, consisting of figures and colors borne in shields, banners, etc., as marks of dignity and distinction, and descending from father to son.  5. (Falconry)  The legs of a hawk from the thigh to the foot. Halliwell. Bred to arms, educated to the profession of a soldier.  -- In arms, armed for war; in a state of hostility.  -- Small arms, portable firearms known as muskets, rifles, carbines, pistols, etc.  -- A stand of arms, a complete set for one soldier, as a musket, bayonet, cartridge box and belt; frequently, the musket and bayonet alone.  -- To arms! a summons to war or battle.  -- Under arms, armed and equipped and in readiness for battle, or for a military parade. Arm's end, Arm's length, Arm's reach. See under Arm. 

ARMY:  The system by which a country raises, classifies, arranges, and equips its armed land forces. The usual divisions are: (1) A regular or active army, in which soldiers serve continuously with the colors and live in barracks or cantonments when not in the field; (2) the reserves of this army, in which the soldiers, while remaining constantly subject to a call to the colors, live at their homes, being summoned more or less frequently to report for instruction, drill, or maneuvers; and (3) one or more classes of soldiers organized largely for territorial defense, living at home and having only occasional periods of drill and instraction, who are variously called home reserves (as in the table below), second, third, etc., line of defense (the regular army and its reserves ordinarily constituting the first line of defense), territorial forces, or the like. In countries where conscription prevails a soldier is supposed to serve a given number of years.  He is usually enrolled first in the regular army, then passes to its reserve, then into the home reserves, to serve until he reaches the age limit. It for any reason he is not enrolled in the regular army, he may begin his service in the army reserves or even the home reserves, but then serves the full number of years or up to the age limit. In equipment the organization of the army is into the three great arms of infantry, cavalry, and artillery, together with more or less numerous other branches, such as engineers, medical corps, etc., besides the staff organizations such as those of the pay and subsistence departments.  ARMY WORM Ar"my worm`. (Zoöl.) (a) A lepidopterous insect, which in the larval state often travels in great multitudes from field to field, destroying grass, grain, and other crops. The common army worm of the northern United States is Leucania unipuncta. The name is often applied to other related species, as the cotton worm. (b) The larva of a small two-winged fly (Sciara), which marches in large companies, in regular order. See Cotton worm, under Cotton.  ARNA; ARNEE Ar"na, Ar"nee, n. (Zoöl.)  The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger than the domestic buffalo and having enormous horns. 

ARNATTO:  See Annotto.  ARNAUT; ARNAOUT Ar*naut"  Ar*naout", n. [Turk. Arnaut, fr. NGr. , for .]  An inhabitant of Albania and neighboring mountainous regions, specif. one serving as a soldier in the Turkish army. 

ARNICA:  A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnica montana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as a narcotic and stimulant.  Note: The tincture of arnica is applied externally as a remedy for bruises, sprains, etc. 

ARNICIN:  An active principle of Arnica montana. It is a bitter resin. 

ARNICINE:  An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.  ARNOT; ARNUT Ar"not, Ar"nut, n. Etym: [Cf. D. aardnoot, E. earthut.]  The earthnut. [Obs.] 

ARNOTTO:  Same as Annotto.  AROID; AROIDEOUS A"roid, A*roid"e*ous, a. Etym: [Arum + -oid.] (Bot.)  Belonging to, or resembling, the Arum family of plants. 

AROINT:  Stand off, or begone. [Obs.] Aroint thee, witch, the rump-fed ronyon cries. Shak. 

AROINT:  To drive or scare off by some exclamation. [R.] "Whiskered cats arointed flee." Mrs. Browning. 

AROLLA:  The stone pine (Pinus Cembra). 

AROMA:  Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong- scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam. Aromatic compound (Chem.), one of a large class of organic substances, as the oils of bitter almonds, wintergreen, and turpentine, the balsams, camphors, etc., many of which have an aromatic odor. They include many of the most important of the carbon compounds and may all be derived from the benzene group, C6H6. The term is extended also to many of their derivatives.  -- Aromatic vinegar. See under Vinegar. 

AROMATIC:  A plant, drug, or medicine, characterized by a fragrant smell, and usually by a warm, pungent taste, as ginger, cinnamon spices. 

AROMATIZATION:  The act of impregnating or secting with aroma. 

AROMATIZE:  To impregnate with aroma; to render aromatic; to give a spicy scent or taste to; to perfume. Bacon. 

AROMATIZER:  One who, or that which, aromatizes or renders aromatic. Evelyn. 

AROMATOUS:  Aromatic. [Obs.] Caxton. 

AROPH:  A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate various medical remedies. [Obs.] 

AROSE:  The past or preterit tense of Arise. 

AROUSAL:  The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused. Whatever has associated itself with the arousal and activity of our better nature. Hare. 

AROUSE:  To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put in motion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one from sleep; to arouse the dormant faculties. Grasping his spear, forth issued to arouse His brother, mighty sovereign on the host. Cowper. No suspicion was aroused. Merivale. 

AROW:  In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order. Shak. And twenty, rank in rank, they rode arow. Dryden. 

AROYNT:  See Aroint. 

ARPEGGIO:  The production of the tones of a chord in rapid succession, as in playing the harp, and not simultaneously; a strain thus played.  ARPENT; ARPEN Ar"pent, Ar"pen, n. Etym: [F. arpent, fr. L. arepennis, arapennis. According to Columella, a Gallic word for a measure equiv. to half a Roman jugerum.]  Formerly, a measure of land in France, varying in different parts of the country. The arpent of Paris was 4,088 sq. yards, or nearly five sixths of an English acre. The woodland arpent was about 1 acre, 1 rood, 1 perch, English. 

ARPENTATOR:  The Anglicized form of the French arpenteur, a land surveyor. [R.] 

ARPINE:  An arpent. [Obs.] Webster (1623). 

ARQUATED:  Shaped like a bow; arcuate; curved. [R.]  ARQUEBUS; ARQUEBUSE Ar"que*bus, Ar"que*buse, n. Etym: [F. arquebuse, OF. harquebuse, fr. D. haak-bus; cf. G. hakenbüchse a gun with a hook. See Hagbut.]  A sort of hand gun or firearm a contrivance answering to a trigger, by which the burning match was applied. The musket was a later invention. [Written also harquebus.] 

ARQUEBUSIER:  A soldier armed with an arquebus. Soldiers armed with guns, of whatsoever sort or denomination, appear to have been called arquebusiers. E. Lodge. 

ARQUIFOUX:  Same as Alquifou. 

ARRACH:  See Orach. 

ARRACK:  A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardent spirits. Arrack is often distilled from a fermented mixture of rice, molasses, and palm wine of the cocoanut tree or the date palm, etc. 

ARRAGONITE:  See Aragonite. 

ARRAIGN:  To call or set as a prisoner at the bar of a court to answer to the matter charged in an indictment or complaint. Blackstone.  2. To call to account, or accuse, before the bar of reason, taste, or any other tribunal. They will not arraign you for want of knowledge. Dryden. It is not arrogance, but timidity, of which the Christian body should now be arraigned by the world. I. Taylor.  Syn.  -- To accuse; impeach; charge; censure; criminate; indict; denounce. See Accuse. 

ARRAIGN:  Arraignment; as, the clerk of the arraigns. Blackstone. Macaulay. 

ARRAIGN:  To appeal to; to demand; as, to arraign an assize of novel disseizin. 

ARRAIGNER:  One who arraigns. Coleridge. 

ARRAIGNMENT:  The act of arraigning, or the state of being arraigned; the act of calling and setting a prisoner before a court to answer to an indictment or complaint.  2. A calling to an account to faults; accusation. In the sixth satire, which seems only an Arraignment of the whole sex, there is a latent admonition. Dryden.  ARRAIMENT; ARRAYMENT Ar*rai"ment, Ar*ray"ment, n. Etym: [From Array, v. t.]  Clothes; raiment. [Obs.] 

ARRANGER:  One who arranges. Burke. 

ARRANT:  Notoriously or preëminently bad; thorough or downright, in a bad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward. I discover an arrant laziness in my soul. Fuller.  2. Thorough or downright, in a good sense. [Obs.] An arrant honest woman. Burton. 

ARRANTLY:  Notoriously, in an ill sense; infamously; impudently; shamefully. L'Estrange. 

ARRAS:  Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen or hangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures. Stateliest couches, with rich arras spread. Cowper. Behind the arras I'll convey myself. Shak. 

ARRAS:  To furnish with an arras. Chapman. 

ARRASENE:  A material of wool or silk used for working the figures in embroidery. 

ARRASTRE:  A rude apparatus for pulverizing ores, esp. those containing free gold.  ARRASWISE; ARRASWAYS Ar"ras*wise`, Ar"ras*ways`, adv. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of arriswise. See Arris.]  Placed in such a position as to exhibit the top and two sides, the corner being in front; -- said of a rectangular form. Encyc. Brit. Cussans. 

ARRAUGHT:  Obtained; seized. Spenser. 

ARRAY:  To set in order, as a jury, for the trial of a cause; that is, to call them man by man. Blackstone. To array a panel, to set forth in order the men that are impaneled. Cowell. Tomlins.  Syn.  -- To draw up; arrange; dispose; set in order. 

ARRAYER:  One who arrays. In some early English statutes, applied to an officer who had care of the soldiers' armor, and who saw them duly accoutered. 

ARREAR:  To or in the rear; behind; backwards. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ARREAR:  That which is behind in payment, or which remains unpaid, though due; esp. a remainder, or balance which remains due when some part has been paid; arrearage; -- commonly used in the plural, as, arrears of rent, wages, or taxes. Locke. For much I dread due payment by the Greeks Of yesterday's arrear. Cowper. I have a large arrear of letters to write. J. D. Forbes. In arrear or In arrears, behind; backward; behindhand; in debt. 

ARREARAGE:  That which remains unpaid and overdue, after payment of a part; arrears. The old arrearages . . . being defrayed. Howell.  ARRECT; ARRECTED Ar*rect", Ar*rect"ed, a. Etym: [L. arrectus, p. p. of arrigere to raise, erect; ad + regere to lead straight, to direct.]  1. Lifted up; raised; erect.  2. Attentive, as a person listening. [Obs.] God speaks not the idle and unconcerned hearer, but to the vigilant and arrect. Smalridge. 

ARRECT:  To impute. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

ARRECTARY:  An upright beam. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ARRENOTOKOUS:  Producing males from unfertilized eggs, as certain wasps and bees. 

ARRENTATION:  A letting or renting, esp. a license to inclose land in a forest with a low hedge and a ditch, under a yearly rent. 

ARREPTION:  The act of taking away. [Obs.] "This arreption was sudden." Bp. Hall. 

ARREPTITIOUS:  Snatched away; seized or possessed, as a demoniac; raving; mad; crack-brained. [Obs.] Odd, arreptitious, frantic extravagances. Howell. 

ARREST:  To take, seize, or apprehend by authority of law; as, to arrest one for debt, or for a crime.  Note: After his word Shakespeare uses of ("I arrest thee of high treason") or on; the modern usage is for.  3. To seize on and fix; to hold; to catch; as, to arrest the eyes or attention. Buckminster.  4. To rest or fasten; to fix; to concentrate. [Obs.] We may arrest our thoughts upon the divine mercies. Jer. Taylor.  Syn.  -- To obstruct; delay; detain; check; hinder; stop; apprehend; seize; lay hold of. 

ARREST:  To tarry; to rest. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ARREST:  The taking or apprehending of a person by authority of law; legal restraint; custody. Also, a decree, mandate, or warrant. William . . . ordered him to be put under arrest. Macaulay. [Our brother Norway] sends out arrests On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys. Shak.  Note: An arrest may be made by seizing or touching the body; but it is sufficient in the party be within the power of the officer and submit to the arrest. In Admiralty law, and in old English practice, the term is applied to the seizure of property.  3. Any seizure by power, physical or moral. The sad stories of fire from heaven, the burning of his sheep, etc., . . . were sad arrests to his troubled spirit. Jer. Taylor.  4. (Far.)  A scurfiness of the back part of the hind leg of a horse; -- also named rat-tails. White. Arrest of judgment (Law), the staying or stopping of a judgment, after verdict, for legal cause. The motion for this purpose is called a motion in arrest of judgment. 

ARRESTATION:  Arrest. [R.] The arrestation of the English resident in France was decreed by the National Convention. H. M. Williams. 

ARRESTEE:  The person in whose hands is the property attached by arrestment. 

ARRESTER:  The person at whose suit an arrestment is made. [Also written arrestor.] 

ARRESTING:  Striking; attracting attention; impressive. This most solemn and arresting occurrence. J. H. Newman. 

ARRESTIVE:  Tending to arrest. McCosh. 

ARRESTMENT:  The arrest of a person, or the seizure of his effects; esp., a process by which money or movables in the possession of a third party are attached.  2. A stoppage or check. Darwin. 

ARRET:  Same as Aret. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ARRHA:  Money or other valuable thing given to evidence a contract; a pledge or earnest. 

ARRHAPHOSTIC:  Seamless. [R.]  ARRHIZAL; ARRHIZOUS Ar*rhi"zal, Ar*rhi"zous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  Destitute of a true root, as a parasitical plant.  ARRHYTHMIC; ARRHYTHMOUS Ar*rhyth"mic, Ar*rhyth"mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)  Being without rhythm or regularity, as the pulse. 

ARRHYTMY:  Want of rhythm. [R.] 

ARRIDE:  To please; to gratify. [Archaic] B. Jonson. Above all thy rarities, old Oxenford, what do most arride and solace me are thy repositories of moldering learning. Lamb. 

ARRIERE:  "That which is behind"; the rear; -- chiefly used as an adjective in the sense of behind, rear, subordinate. Arriere fee, Arriere fief, a fee or fief dependent on a superior fee, or a fee held of a feudatory.  -- Arriere vassal, the vassal of a vassal.  ARRIERE-BAN Ar*riere"-ban`, n. Etym: [F., fr. OE. arban, heriban, fr. OHG. hariban, heriban, G. heerbann, the calling together of an army; OHG. heri an army + ban a public call or order. The French have misunderstood their old word, and have changed it into arrière-ban, though arrière has no connection with its proper meaning. See Ban, Abandon.]  A proclamation, as of the French kings, calling not only their immediate feudatories, but the vassals of these feudatories, to take the field for war; also, the body of vassals called or liable to be called to arms, as in ancient France. 

ARRIS:  The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meeting each other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to the edges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate the flutings in a Doric column. P. Cyc. Arris fillet, a triangular piece of wood used to raise the slates of a roof against a chimney or wall, to throw off the rain. Gwilt.  -- Arris gutter, a gutter of a V form fixed to the eaves of a building. Gwilt. 

ARRISH:  The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish. [Eng.] [Written also arish, ersh, etc.] The moment we entered the stubble or arrish. Blackw. Mag. 

ARRISWISE:  Diagonally laid, as tiles; ridgewise. 

ARRIVANCE:  Arrival. [Obs.] Shak. 

ARRIVE:  Arrival. [Obs.] Chaucer. How should I joy of thy arrive to hear! Drayton. 

ARRIVER:  One who arrives. 

ARROGANCE:  The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in an overbearing manner; that species of pride which consists in exorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power, or which exalts the worth or importance of the person to an undue degree; proud contempt of others; lordliness; haughtiness; self-assumption; presumption. I hate not you for her proud arrogance. Shak.  Syn.  -- Haughtiness; hauteur; assumption; lordliness; presumption; pride; disdain; insolence; conceit; conceitedness. See Haughtiness. 

ARROGANCY:  Arrogance. Shak. 

ARROGANTLY:  In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance. 

ARROGANTNESS:  Arrogance. [R.] 

ARROGATE:  To assume, or claim as one's own, unduly, proudly, or presumptuously; to make undue claims to, from vanity or baseless pretensions to right or merit; as, the pope arrogated dominion over kings. He arrogated to himself the right of deciding dogmatically what was orthodox doctrine. Macaulay. 

ARROGATION:  Adoption of a person of full age. 

ARROGATIVE:  Making undue claims and pretension; prone to arrogance. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

ARRONDISSEMENT:  A subdivision of a department. [France]  Note: The territory of France, since the revolution, has been divided into departments, those into arrondissements, those into cantons, and the latter into communes. 

ARROSE:  To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten. [Obs.] The blissful dew of heaven does arrose you. Two N. Kins. 

ARROSION:  A gnawing. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ARROW:  A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usually feathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow. Broad arrow. (a) An arrow with a broad head. (b) A mark placed upon British ordnance and government stores, which bears a rude resemblance to a broad arrowhead.  ARROW GRASS Ar"row grass`, n. (Bot.)  An herbaceous grasslike plant (Triglochin palustre, and other species) with pods opening so as to suggest barbed arrowheads. 

ARROWHEAD:  An aquatic plant of the genus Sagittaria, esp. S. sagittifolia, -- named from the shape of the leaves. 

ARROWHEADED:  Shaped like the head of an arow; cuneiform. Arrowheaded characters, characters the elements of which consist of strokes resembling arrowheads, nailheads, or wedges; -- hence called also nail-headed, wedge-formed, cuneiform, or cuneatic characters; the oldest written characters used in the country about the Tigris and Euphrates, and subsequently in Persia, and abounding among the ruins of Persepolis, Nineveh, and Babylon. See Cuneiform. 

ARROWROOT:  A west Indian plant of the genus Maranta, esp. M. arundinacea, now cultivated in many hot countries. It said that the Indians used the roots to neutralize the venom in wounds made by poisoned arrows.  2. A nutritive starch obtained from the rootstocks of Maranta arundinacea, and used as food, esp. for children an invalids; also, a similar starch obtained from other plants, as various species of Maranta and Curcuma. 

ARROWWOOD:  A shrub (Viburnum dentatum) growing in damp woods and thickets; -- so called from the long, straight, slender shoots. 

ARROWWORM:  A peculiar transparent worm of the genus Sagitta, living at the surface of the sea. See Sagitta. 

ARSCHIN:  See Arshine. 

ARSE:  The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; the fundament; the bottom. 

ARSENAL:  A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufacture and storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land or naval service. 

ARSENATE:  A salt of arsenic acid. 

ARSENIATE:  See Arsenate. [R.] 

ARSENIC:  One of the elements, a solid substance resembling a metal in its physical properties, but in its chemical relations ranking with the nonmetals. It is of a steel-gray color and brilliant luster, though usually dull from tarnish. It is very brittle, and sublimes at 356º Fahrenheit. It is sometimes found native, but usually combined with silver, cobalt, nickel, iron, antimony, or sulphur. Orpiment and realgar are two of its sulphur compounds, the first of which is the true arsenticum of the ancients. The element and its compounds are active poisons. Specific gravity from 5.7 to 5.9. Atomic weight. Symbol As.  2. (Com.)  Arsenious oxide or arsenious anhydride; -- called also arsenious acid, white arsenic, and ratsbane. 

ARSENIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic; -- said of those compounds of arsenic in which this element has its highest equivalence; as, arsenic acid. 

ARSENICAL:  Of or pertaining to, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenical vapor; arsenical wall papers. Arsenical silver, an ore of silver containing arsenic. 

ARSENICATE:  To combine with arsenic; to treat or impregnate with arsenic. 

ARSENICISM:  A diseased condition produced by slow poisoning with arsenic. 

ARSENIDE:  A compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element or radical; -- formerly called arseniuret. 

ARSENIFEROUS:  Containing or producing arsenic. 

ARSENIOUS:  Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic, when having an equivalence next lower than the highest; as, arsenious acid. 

ARSENITE:  A salt formed by the union of arsenious acid with a base. 

ARSENIURET:  See Arsenide. 

ARSENIURETED:  Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances or radicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen. [Also spelt arseniuretted.] 

ARSENOPYRITE:  A mineral of a tin-white color and metallic luster, containing arsenic, sulphur, and iron; -- also called arsenical pyrites and mispickel. 

ARSESMART:  Smartweed; water pepper. Dr. Prior. 

ARSHINE:  A Russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches. 

ARSINE:  A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless and exceedingly poisonous gas, having and odor like garlic; arseniureted hydrogen. 

ARSIS:  The elevation of the hand, or that part of the bar at which it is raised, in beating time; the weak or unaccented part of the bar; - - opposed to thesis. Moore. 

ARSMETRIKE:  Arithmetic. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ARSON:  The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse of another man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious and voluntary firing of a building or ship. Wharton.  Note: The definition of this crime is varied by statues in different countries and states. The English law of arson has been considerably modified in the United States; in some of the States it has been materially enlarged, while in others, various degrees of arson have been established, with corresponding punishment. Burrill. 

ART:  The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, of the substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the plural are, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending of the second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn or poetical style. 

ART:  Those branches of learning which are taught in the academical course of colleges; as, master of arts. In fearless youth we tempt the heights of arts. Pope. Four years spent in the arts (as they are called in colleges) is, perhaps, laying too laborious a foundation. Goldsmith.  6. Learning; study; applied knowledge, science, or letters. [Archaic] So vast is art, so narrow human wit. Pope.  7. Skill, dexterity, or the power of performing certain actions, asquired by experience, study, or observation; knack; a, a man has the art of managing his business to advantage.  8. Skillful plan; device. They employed every art to soothe . . . the discontented warriors. Macaulay.  9. Cunning; artifice; craft. Madam, I swear I use no art at all. Shak. Animals practice art when opposed to their superiors in strength. Crabb.  10 10  To black art; magic. [Obs.] Shak. Art and part (Scots Law), share or concern by aiding and abetting a criminal in the perpetration of a crime, whether by advice or by assistance in the execution; complicity.  Note: The arts are divided into various classes. The useful, mechanical, or industrial arts are those in which the hands and body are concerned than the mind; as in making clothes and utensils. These are called trades. The fine arts are those which have primarily to do with imagination taste, and are applied to the production of what is beautiful. They include poetry, music, painting, engraving, sculpture, and architecture; but the term is often confined to painting, sculpture, and architecture. The liberal arts (artes liberales, the higher arts, which, among the Romans, only freemen were permitted to pursue) were, in the Middle Ages, these seven branches of learning, -- grammar, logic, rhetoric, arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy. In modern times the liberal arts include the sciences, philosophy, history, etc., which compose the course of academical or collegiate education. Hence, degrees in the arts; master and bachelor of arts. In America, literature and the elegant arts must grow up side by side with the coarser plants of daily necessity. Irving.  Syn.  -- Science; literature; aptitude; readiness; skill; dexterity; adroitness; contrivance; profession; business; trade; calling; cunning; artifice; duplicity. See Science. 

ARTEMIA:  A genus of phyllopod Crustacea found in salt lakes and brines; the brine shrimp. See Brine shrimp. 

ARTEMISIA:  A genus of plants including the plants called mugwort, southernwood, and wormwood. Of these A. absinthium, or common wormwood, is well known, and A. tridentata is the sage brush of the Rocky Mountain region. 

ARTERIAC:  Of or pertaining to the windpipe. 

ARTERIALIZATION:  The process of converting venous blood into arterial blood during its passage through the lungs, oxygen being absorbed and carbonic acid evolved; -- called also aëration and hematosis. 

ARTERIALIZE:  To transform, as the venous blood, into arterial blood by exposure to oxygen in the lungs; to make arterial. 

ARTERIOGRAPHY:  A systematic description of the arteries. 

ARTERIOLE:  A small artery. 

ARTERIOLOGY:  That part of anatomy which treats of arteries. 

ARTERIOSCLEROSIS:  Abnormal thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries, esp. of the intima, occurring mostly in old age. -- Ar*te`ri*o*scle*rot"ic (#), a. 

ARTERIOTOMY:  The opening of an artery, esp. for bloodletting.  2. That part of anatomy which treats of the dissection of the arteries. 

ARTERITIS:  Inflammation of an artery or arteries. Dunglison. 

ARTERY:  One of the vessels or tubes which carry either venous or arterial blood from the heart. They have tricker and more muscular walls than veins, and are connected with them by capillaries.  Note: In man and other mammals, the arteries which contain arterialized blood receive it from the left ventricle of the heart through the aorta. See Aorta. The pulmonary artery conveys the venous blood from the right ventricle to the lungs, whence the arterialized blood is returned through the pulmonary veins.  3. Hence: Any continuous or ramified channel of communication; as, arteries of trade or commerce. 

ARTESIAN:  Of or pertaining to Artois (anciently called Artesium), in France. Artesian wells, wells made by boring into the earth till the instrument reaches water, which, from internal pressure, flows spontaneously like a fountain. They are usually of small diameter and often of great depth. 

ARTFULLY:  In an artful manner; with art or cunning; skillfully; dexterously; craftily. 

ARTFULNESS:  The quality of being artful; art; cunning; craft. 

ARTHEN:  Same as Earthen. [Obs.] "An arthen pot." Holland.  ARTHRITIC; ARTHRITICAL Ar*thrit"ic, Ar*thrit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. arthriticus, Gr. Arthritis.]  1. Pertaining to the joints. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  2. Of or pertaining to arthritis; gouty. Cowper. 

ARTHRITIS:  Any inflammation of the joints, particularly the gout. 

ARTHROCHONDRITIS:  Chondritis of a joint. 

ARTHRODERM:  The external covering of an Arthropod. 

ARTHRODESIS:  Surgical fixation of joints. 

ARTHRODIA:  A form of diarthrodial articulation in which the articular surfaces are nearly flat, so that they form only an imperfect ball and socket.  ARTHRODIAL; ARTHRODIC Ar*thro"di*al, Ar*throd"ic, a.  Of or pertaining to arthrodia. 

ARTHRODYNIA:  An affection characterized by pain in or about a joint, not dependent upon structural disease. 

ARTHRODYNIC:  Pertaining to arthrodynia, or pain in the joints; rheumatic. 

ARTHROGASTRA:  A division of the Arachnida, having the abdomen annulated, including the scorpions, harvestmen, etc.; pedipalpi. 

ARTHROGRAPHY:  The description of joints. 

ARTHROLOGY:  That part of anatomy which treats of joints. 

ARTHROMERE:  One of the body segments of Arthropods. See Arthrostraca. Packard. 

ARTHROPATHY:  Any disease of the joints. 

ARTHROPLEURA:  The side or limb-bearing portion of an arthromere. 

ARTHROPOD:  One of the Arthropoda. 

ARTHROPODA:  A large division of Articulata, embracing all those that have jointed legs. It includes Insects, Arachnida, Pychnogonida, and Crustacea.  -- Ar*throp"o*dal, a. 

ARTHROPOMATA:  One of the orders of Branchiopoda. See Branchiopoda. 

ARTHROSIS:  Articulation. 

ARTHROSPORE:  A bacterial resting cell, -- formerly considered a spore, but now known to occur even in endosporous bacteria. -- Ar`thro*spor"ic (#), Ar*thros"po*rous (#), a. 

ARTHROSTRACA:  One of the larger divisions of Crustacea, so called because the thorax and abdomen are both segmented; Tetradecapoda. It includes the Amphipoda and Isopoda. 

ARTHROTOME:  A strong scalpel used in the dissection of joints. 

ARTHROZOIC:  Of or pertaining to the Articulata; articulate. 

ARTHURIAN:  Of or pertaining to King Arthur or his knights.  J. R. Symonds.  In magnitude, in interest, and as a literary origin, the Arthurian invention dwarfs all other things in the book. Saintsbury. 

ARTIAD:  Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals the valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder. 

ARTICLE:  One of the three words, a, an, the, used before nouns to limit or define their application. A (or an) is called the indefinite article, the the definite article.  8. (Zoöl.)  One of the segments of an articulated appendage. Articles of Confederation, the compact which was first made by the original thirteen States of the United States. They were adopted March 1, 1781, and remained the supreme law until March, 1789.  -- Articles of impeachment, an instrument which, in cases of impeachment, performs the same office which an indictment does in a common criminal case.  -- Articles of war, rules and regulations, fixed by law, for the better government of the army.  -- In the article of death Etym: [L. in articulo mortis], at the moment of death; in the dying struggle.  -- Lords of the articles (Scot. Hist.), a standing committee of the Scottish Parliament to whom was intrusted the drafting and preparation of the acts, or bills for laws.  -- The Thirty-nine Articles, statements (thirty-nine in number) of the tenets held by the Church of England. 

ARTICLE:  To agree by articles; to stipulate; to bargain; to covenant. [R.] Then he articled with her that he should go away when he pleased. Selden. 

ARTICLED:  Bound by articles; apprenticed; as, an articled clerk. 

ARTICULAR:  Of or pertaining to the joints; as, an articular disease; an articular process.  ARTICULAR; ARTICULARY Ar*tic"u*lar, Ar*tic"u*la*ry, n. (Anat.)  A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes. 

ARTICULARLY:  In an articular or an articulate manner. 

ARTICULATE:  An animal of the subkingdom Articulata. 

ARTICULATENESS:  Quality of being articulate. 

ARTICULATION:  A joint or juncture between bones in the skeleton.  Note: Articulations may be immovable, when the bones are directly united (synarthrosis), or slightly movable, when they are united intervening substance (amphiarthrosis), or they may be more or less freely movable, when the articular surfaces are covered with synovial membranes, as in complete joints (diarthrosis). The last (diarthrosis) includes hinge joints, admitting motion in one plane only (ginglymus), ball and socket joints (enarthrosis), pivot and rotation joints, etc.  2. (Bot.) (a) The connection of the parts of a plant by joints, as in pods. (b) One of the nodes or joints, as in cane and maize. (c) One of the parts intercepted between the joints; also, a subdivision into parts at regular or irregular intervals as a result of serial intermission in growth, as in the cane, grasses, etc. Lindley.  3. The act of putting together with a joint or joints; any meeting of parts in a joint.  4. The state of being jointed; connection of parts. [R.] That definiteness and articulation of imagery. Coleridge.  5. The utterance of the elementary sounds of a language by the appropriate movements of the organs, as in pronunciation; as, a distinct articulation.  6. A sound made by the vocal organs; an articulate utterance or an elementary sound, esp. a consonant. 

ARTICULATIVE:  Of or pertaining to articulation. Bush. 

ARTICULATOR:  One who, or that which, articulates; as: (a) One who enunciates distinctly. (b) One who prepares and mounts skeletons. (c) An instrument to cure stammering. 

ARTICULUS:  A joint of the cirri of the Crinoidea; a joint or segment of an arthropod appendage. 

ARTIFACT:  A product of human workmanship; -- applied esp. to the simpler products of aboriginal art as distinguished from natural objects.  2.  (Biol.) A structure or appearance in protoplasm due to death or the  use of reagents and not present during life. 

ARTIFICER:  A military mechanic, as a blacksmith, carpenter, etc.; also, one who prepares the shells, fuses, grenades, etc., in a military laboratory.  Syn.  -- Artisan; artist. See Artisan. 

ARTIFICIALITY:  The quality or appearance of being artificial; that which is artificial. 

ARTIFICIALIZE:  To render artificial. 

ARTIFICIALNESS:  The quality of being artificial. 

ARTIFICIOUS:  Artificial. [Obs.] Johnson. 

ARTILIZE:  To make resemble. [Obs.] If I was a philosopher, says Montaigne, I would naturalize art instead of artilizing nature. Bolingbroke. 

ARTILLERIST:  A person skilled in artillery or gunnery; a gunner; an artilleryman. 

ARTILLERYMAN:  A man who manages, or assists in managing, a large gun in firing.  ARTILLERY WHEEL Ar*til"ler*y wheel.  A kind of heavily built dished wheel with a long axle box, used on gun carriages, usually having 14 spokes and 7 felloes; hence, a wheel of similar construction for use on automobiles, etc. 

ARTIODACTYLA:  One of the divisions of the ungulate animals. The functional toes of the hind foot are even in number, and the third digit of each foot (corresponding to the middle finger in man) is asymmetrical and paired with the fourth digit, as in the hog, the sheep, and the ox; - - opposed to Perissodactyla. 

ARTIODACTYLE:  One of the Artiodactyla. 

ARTIODACTYLOUS:  Even-toed. 

ARTISTE:  One peculiarly dexterous and tasteful in almost any employment, as an opera dancer, a hairdresser, a cook.  Note: This term should not be confounded with the English word artist.  ARTISTIC; ARTISTICAL Ar*tis"tic, Ar*tis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. artistique, fr. artiste.]  Of or pertaining to art or to artists; made in the manner of an artist; conformable to art; characterized by art; showing taste or skill.  -- Ar*tis"tic*al*ly, adv. 

ARTLESSLY:  In an artless manner; without art, skill, or guile; unaffectedly. Pope. 

ARTLESSNESS:  The quality of being artless, or void of art or guile; simplicity; sincerity. 

ARTLY:  With art or skill. [Obs.]  ARTOCARPEOUS; ARTOCARPOUS Ar`to*car"pe*ous, Ar`to*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the breadfruit, or to the genus Artocarpus. 

ARTOTYPE:  A kind of autotype. 

ARTOTYRITE:  One of a sect in the primitive church, who celebrated the Lord's Supper with bread and cheese, alleging that the first oblations of men not only of the fruit of the earth, but of their flocks. [Gen. iv. 3, 4.] 

ARTOW:  A contraction of art thou. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ARTSMAN:  A man skilled in an art or in arts. [Obs.] Bacon.  ART UNION Art` un"ion.  An association for promoting art (esp. the arts of design), and giving encouragement to artists. 

ARUM:  A genus of plants found in central Europe and about the Mediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe. The cuckoopint of the English is an example. Our common arums the lords and ladies of village children. Lubbock.  Note: The American "Jack in the pulpit" is now separated from the genus Arum. 

ARUNDELIAN:  Pertaining to an Earl of Arundel; as, Arundel or Arundelian marbles, marbles from ancient Greece, bought by the Earl of Arundel in 1624. 

ARUNDIFEROUS:  Producing reeds or canes. 

ARUNDINACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a reed; resembling the reed or cane. 

ARUNDINEOUS:  Abounding with reeds; reedy. 

ARUSPEX:  One of the class of diviners among the Etruscans and Romans, who foretold events by the inspection of the entrails of victims offered on the altars of the gods. 

ARUSPICE:  A soothsayer of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspex. [Written also haruspice.] 

ARUSPICY:  Prognostication by inspection of the entrails of victims slain sacrifice. 

ARVAL:  A funeral feast. [North of Eng.] Grose. 

ARVICOLE:  A mouse of the genus Arvicola; the meadow mouse. There are many species. 

ARYAN:  Of or pertaining to the people called Aryans; Indo-European; Indo-Germanic; as, the Aryan stock, the Aryan languages. 

ARYANIZE:  To make Aryan (a language, or in language). K. Johnston. 

ARYTENOID:  Ladle-shaped; -- applied to two small cartilages of the larynx, and also to the glands, muscles, etc., connected with them. The cartilages are attached to the cricoid cartilage and connected with the vocal cords. 

AS:  An ace. [Obs.] Chaucer. Ambes-as, double aces. 

ASA:  An ancient name of a gum.  ASAFETIDA; ASAFOETIDA As`a*fet"i*da, As`a*foet"i*da, n. Etym: [Asa + L. foetidus fetid.]  The fetid gum resin or inspissated juice of a large umbelliferous plant (Ferula asafoetida) of Persia and the East India. It is used in medicine as an antispasmodic. [Written also assafoetida.] 

ASAPHUS:  A genus of trilobites found in the Lower Silurian formation. See Illust. in Append. 

ASARABACCA:  An acrid herbaceous plant (Asarum Europæum), the leaves and roots of which are emetic and cathartic. It is principally used in cephalic snuffs. 

ASARONE:  A crystallized substance, resembling camphor, obtained from the Asarum Europæum; -- called also camphor of asarum. 

ASBESTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling asbestus; inconsumable; asbestine. 

ASBESTIFORM:  Having the form or structure of asbestus. 

ASBESTINE:  Of or pertaining to asbestus, or partaking of its nature; incombustible; asbestic. 

ASBESTOUS:  Asbestic.  ASBESTUS; ASBESTOS As*bes"tus, As*bes"tos, n. Etym: [L. asbestos (NL. asbestus) a kind of mineral unaffected by fire, Gr. (Min.)  A variety of amphibole or of pyroxene, occurring in long and delicate fibers, or in fibrous masses or seams, usually of a white, gray, or green-gray color. The name is also given to a similar variety of serpentine.  Note: The finer varieties have been wrought into gloves and cloth which are incombustible. The cloth was formerly used as a shroud for dead bodies, and has been recommended for firemen's clothes. Asbestus in also employed in the manufacture of iron safes, for fireproof roofing, and for lampwicks. Some varieties are called amianthus. Dana. 

ASBOLIN:  A peculiar acrid and bitter oil, obtained from wood soot. 

ASCARIASIS:  A disease, usually accompanied by colicky pains and diarrhea, caused by the presence of ascarids in the gastrointestinal canal. 

ASCARID:  A parasitic nematoid worm, espec. the roundworm, Ascaris lumbricoides, often occurring in the human intestine and allied species found in domestic animals; also commonly applied to the pinworm (Oxyuris), often troublesome to children and aged persons. 

ASCEND:  To go or move upward upon or along; to climb; to mount; to go up the top of; as, to ascend a hill, a ladder, a tree, a river, a throne. 

ASCENDABLE:  Capable of being ascended.  ASCENDANCY; ASCENDANCE As*cend"an*cy, As*cend"ance, n.  Same as Ascendency. 

ASCENDANT:  The horoscope, or that degree of the ecliptic which rises above the horizon at the moment of one's birth; supposed to have a commanding influence on a person's life and fortune.  Note: Hence the phrases To be in the ascendant, to have commanding power or influence, and Lord of the ascendant, one who has possession of such power or influence; as, to rule, for a while, lord of the ascendant. Burke.  3. Superiority, or commanding influence; ascendency; as, one man has the ascendant over another. Chievres had acquired over the mind of the young monarch the ascendant not only of a tutor, but of a parent. Robertson.  4. An ancestor, or one who precedes in genealogy or degrees of kindred; a relative in the ascending line; a progenitor; -- opposed to descendant. Ayliffe.  ASCENDANT; ASCENDENT As*cend"ant, As*cend"ent, a.  1. Rising toward the zenith; above the horizon. The constellation . . . about that time ascendant. Browne.  2. Rising; ascending. Ruskin.  3. Superior; surpassing; ruling. An ascendant spirit over him. South. The ascendant community obtained a surplus of wealth. J. S. Mill. Without some power of persuading or confuting, of defending himself against accusations, . . . no man could possibly hold an ascendent position. Grote. 

ASCENDENCY:  Governing or controlling influence; domination; power. An undisputed ascendency. Macaulay. Custom has an ascendency over the understanding. Watts.  Syn.  -- Control; authority; influence; sway; dominion; prevalence; domination. 

ASCENDIBLE:  Capable of being ascended; climbable. 

ASCENDING:  Rising; moving upward; as, an ascending kite.  -- As*cend"ing*ly, adv. Ascending latitude (Astron.), the increasing latitude of a planet. Ferguson.  -- Ascending line (Geneol.), the line of relationship traced backward or through one's ancestors. One's father and mother, grandfather and grandmother, etc., are in the line direct ascending.  -- Ascending node having, that node of the moon or a planet wherein it passes the ecliptic to proceed northward. It is also called the northern node. Herschel.  -- Ascending series. (Math.) (a) A series arranged according to the ascending powers of a quantity. (b) A series in which each term is greater than the preceding.  -- Ascending signs, signs east of the meridian. 

ASCENSIONAL:  Relating to ascension; connected with ascent; ascensive; tending upward; as, the ascensional power of a balloon. Ascensional difference (Astron.), the difference between oblique and right ascension; -- used chiefly as expressing the difference between the time of the rising or setting of a body and six o'clock, or six hours from its meridian passage. 

ASCENSIVE:  Augmentative; intensive. Ellicott. 

ASCERTAINABLE:  That may be ascertained.  -- As`cer*tain"a*ble*ness, n.  -- As`cer*tain"a*bly, adv. 

ASCERTAINER:  One who ascertains. 

ASCERTAINMENT:  The act of ascertaining; a reducing to certainty; a finding out by investigation; discovery. The positive ascertainment of its limits. Burke.  ASCESSANCY; ASCESSANT As*ces"san*cy, n. As*ces"sant, a.  See Acescency, Acescent. [Obs.] 

ASCETIC:  Extremely rigid in self-denial and devotions; austere; severe. The stern ascetic rigor of the Temple discipline. Sir W. Scott. 

ASCETIC:  In the early church, one who devoted himself to a solitary and contemplative life, characterized by devotion, extreme self-denial, and self-mortification; a hermit; a recluse; hence, one who practices extreme rigor and self-denial in religious things. I am far from commending those ascetics that take up their quarters in deserts. Norris. Ascetic theology, the science which treats of the practice of the theological and moral virtues, and the counsels of perfection. Am. Cyc. 

ASCETICISM:  The condition, practice, or mode of life, of ascetics. 

ASCHAM:  A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and other implements of archery. 

ASCI:  See Ascus. 

ASCIAN:  One of the Ascii. 

ASCIDIAN:  One of the Ascidioidea, or in a more general sense, one of the Tunicata. Also as an adj. 

ASCIDIARIUM:  The structure which unites together the ascidiozooids in a compound ascidian. 

ASCIDIFORM:  Shaped like an ascidian. 

ASCIDIOIDEA:  A group of Tunicata, often shaped like a two-necked bottle. The group includes, social, and compound species. The gill is a netlike structure within the oral aperture. The integument is usually leathery in texture. See Illustration in Appendix. 

ASCIDIOZOOID:  One of the individual members of a compound ascidian. See Ascidioidea. 

ASCIDIUM:  A pitcher-shaped, or flask-shaped, organ or appendage of a plant, as the leaves of the pitcher plant, or the little bladderlike traps of the bladderwort (Utricularia).  2. pl. (Zoöl.)  A genus of simple ascidians, which formerly included most of the known species. It is sometimes used as a name for the Ascidioidea, or for all the Tunicata. 

ASCIGEROUS:  Having asci. Loudon.  ASCII; ASCIANS As"ci*i, As"cians, n. pl. Etym: [L. ascii, pl. of ascius, Gr.  Persons who, at certain times of the year, have no shadow at noon; -- applied to the inhabitants of the torrid zone, who have, twice a year, a vertical sun. 

ASCITES:  A collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the abdomen; dropsy of the peritoneum. Dunglison.  ASCITIC; ASCITICAL As*cit"ic, As*cit"ic*al, a.  Of, pertaining to, or affected by, ascites; dropsical. 

ASCITITIOUS:  Supplemental; not inherent or original; adscititious; additional; assumed. Homer has been reckoned an ascititious name. Pope. 

ASCLEPIAD:  A choriambic verse, first used by the Greek poet Asclepias, consisting of four feet, viz., a spondee, two choriambi, and an iambus. 

ASCLEPIADACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the Milkweed family. 

ASCLEPIAS:  A genus of plants including the milkweed, swallowwort, and some other species having medicinal properties. Asclepias butterfly (Zoöl.), a large, handsome, red and black butterfly (Danais Archippus), found in both hemispheres. It feeds on plants of the genus Asclepias. 

ASCOCARP:  In ascomycetous fungi, the spherical, discoid, or cup-shaped body within which the asci are collected, and which constitutes the mature fructification. The different forms are known in mycology under distinct names. Called also spore fruit. 

ASCOCOCCUS:  A form of micrococcus, found in putrid meat infusions, occurring in peculiar masses, each of which is inclosed in a hyaline capsule and contains a large number of spherical micrococci. 

ASCOMYCETES:  A large class of higher fungi distinguished by septate hyphæ, and by having their spores formed in asci, or spore sacs. It comprises many orders, among which are the yeasts, molds, mildews, truffles, morels, etc. -- As`co*my*ce"tous (#), a. 

ASCOSPORE:  One of the spores contained in the asci of lichens and fungi. [See Illust. of Ascus.] 

ASCRIBABLE:  Capable of being ascribed; attributable. 

ASCRIPT:  See Adscript. [Obs.] 

ASCRIPTION:  The act of ascribing, imputing, or affirming to belong; also, that which is ascribed. 

ASCUS:  A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed the seedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certain fungi.  A-SEA A-sea, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + sea.]  On the sea; at sea; toward the sea. 

ASEMIA:  Loss of power to express, or to understand, symbols or signs of thought. 

ASEPSIS:  State of being aseptic; the methods or processes of asepticizing. 

ASEPTIC:  Not liable to putrefaction; nonputrescent.  -- n.  An aseptic substance. 

ASEXUAL:  Having no distinct; without sexual action; as, asexual reproduction. See Fission and Gemmation. 

ASEXUALIZATION:  The act or process of sterilizing an animal or human being, as by vasectomy. 

ASEXUALLY:  In an asexual manner; without sexual agency. 

ASH:  A genus of trees of the Olive family, having opposite pinnate leaves, many of the species furnishing valuable timber, as the European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and the white ash (F. Americana). Prickly ash (Zanthoxylum Americanum) and Poison ash (Rhus venenata) are shrubs of different families, somewhat resembling the true ashes in their foliage.  -- Mountain ash. See Roman tree, and under Mountain.  2. The tough, elastic wood of the ash tree.  Note: Ash is used adjectively, or as the first part of a compound term; as, ash bud, ash wood, ash tree, etc. 

ASH:  sing. of Ashes.  Note: Ash is rarely used in the singular except in connection with chemical or geological products; as, soda ash, coal which yields a red ash, etc., or as a qualifying or combining word; as, ash bin, ash heap, ash hole, ash pan, ash pit, ash-grey, ash-colored, pearlash, potash. Bone ash, burnt powered; bone earth.  -- Volcanic ash. See under Ashes. 

ASH:  To strew or sprinkle with ashes. Howell. 

ASHAME:  To shame. [R.] Barrow. 

ASHAMED:  Affected by shame; abashed or confused by guilt, or a conviction or consciousness of some wrong action or impropriety. "I am ashamed to beg." Wyclif. All that forsake thee shall be ashamed. Jer. xvii. 13. I began to be ashamed of sitting idle. Johnson. Enough to make us ashamed of our species. Macaulay. An ashamed person can hardly endure to meet the gaze of those present. Darwin.  Note: Ashamed seldom precedes the noun or pronoun it qualifies. By a Hebraism, it is sometimes used in the Bible to mean disappointed, or defeated. 

ASHAMEDLY:  Bashfully. [R.] 

ASHANTEE:  A native or an inhabitant of Ashantee in Western Africa. 

ASHANTEE:  Of or pertaining to Ashantee.  ASH-COLORED Ash"-col`ored, a.  Of the color of ashes; a whitish gray or brownish gray. 

ASHEN:  Of or pertaining to the ash tree. "Ashen poles." Dryden. 

ASHEN:  Consisting of, or resembling, ashes; of a color between brown and gray, or white and gray. The ashen hue of age. Sir W. Scott. 

ASHEN:  obs. pl. for Ashes. Chaucer. 

ASHES:  A low fire used in chemical operations.  ASH-FURNACE; ASH-OVEN Ash"-fur`nace, Ash"-ov`en, n.  A furnace or oven for fritting materials for glass making. 

ASHINE:  Shining; radiant.  ASHLAR; ASHLER Ash"lar, Ash"ler, n. Etym: [OE. ascheler, achiler, OF. aiseler, fr. aiselle, dim. of ais plank, fr. L. axis, assis, plank, axle. See Axle.]  1. (Masonry) (a) Hewn or squared stone; also, masonry made of squared or hewn stone. Rough ashlar, a block of freestone as brought from the quarry. When hammer-dressed it is known as common ashlar. Knight.  (b) In the United States especially, a thin facing of squared and dressed stone upon a wall of rubble or brick. Knight.  ASHLARING; ASHLERING Ash"lar*ing, Ash"ler*ing, n.  1. The act of bedding ashlar in mortar.  2. Ashlar when in thin slabs and made to serve merely as a case to the body of the wall. Brande & C.  3. (Carp.)  The short upright pieces between the floor beams and rafters in garrets. See Ashlar, 2. 

ASHORE:  On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to the shore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship); -- sometimes opposed to aboard or afloat. Here shall I die ashore. Shak. I must fetch his necessaries ashore. Shak. 

ASHTORETH:  The principal female divinity of the Phoenicians, as Baal was the principal male divinity. W. Smith.  ASH WEDNESDAY Ash` Wednes"day.  The first day of Lent; -- so called from a custom in the Roman Catholic church of putting ashes, on that day, upon the foreheads of penitents. 

ASHWEED:  Goutweed. 

ASIAN:  Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic. "Asian princes." Jer. Taylor.  -- n.  An Asiatic. 

ASIARCH:  One of the chiefs or pontiffs of the Roman province of Asia, who had the superintendence of the public games and religious rites. Milner. 

ASIATIC:  Of or pertaining to Asia or to its inhabitants.  -- n.  A native, or one of the people, of Asia. 

ASIATICISM:  Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics. 

ASIDE:  Something spoken aside; as, a remark made by a stageplayer which the other players are not supposed to hear. 

ASILUS:  A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including the bee killer and robber fly.  ASINEGO; ASSINEGO As`i*ne"go, As`si*ne"go, n. Etym: [Sp. asnico, dim. of asno an ass.]  A stupid fellow. [Obs.] Shak. 

ASININE:  Of or belonging to, or having the qualities of, the ass, as stupidity and obstinacy. "Asinine nature." B. Jonson. "Asinine feast." Milton. 

ASININITY:  The quality of being asinine; stupidity combined with obstinacy. 

ASIPHONATE:  Destitute of a siphon or breathing tube; -- said of many bivalve shells.  -- n.  An asiphonate mollusk.  ASIPHONEA; ASIPHONATA; ASIPHONIDA As`i*pho"ne*a, A*si`pho*na"ta, As`i*phon"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  A group of bivalve mollusks destitute of siphons, as the oyster; the asiphonate mollusks. 

ASITIA:  Want of appetite; loathing of food. 

ASK:  A water newt. [Scot. & North of Eng.]  ASKANCE; ASKANT A*skance", A*skant", adv. Etym: [Cf. D. schuin, schuins, sideways, schuiven to shove, schuinte slope. Cf. Asquint.]  Sideways; obliquely; with a side glance; with disdain, envy, or suspicion. They dart away; they wheel askance. Beattie. My palfrey eyed them askance. Landor. Both . . . were viewed askance by authority. Gladstone. 

ASKANCE:  To turn aside. [Poet.] O, how are they wrapped in with infamies That from their own misdeeds askance their eyes! Shak. 

ASKER:  One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer. Shak. 

ASKER:  An ask; a water newt. [Local Eng.] 

ASKEW:  Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimes indicating scorn, or contempt, or entry. Spenser. 

ASLAKE:  To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish. [Archaic] Chaucer. 

ASLANT:  Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely. [The shaft] drove through his neck aslant. Dryden. 

ASLANT:  In a slanting direction over; athwart. There is a willow grows aslant a brook. Shak. 

ASLOPE:  Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction; sloping. "Set them not upright, but aslope." Bacon. 

ASLUG:  Sluggishly. [Obs.] Fotherby. 

ASMEAR:  Smeared over. Dickens. 

ASMONEAN:  Of or pertaining to the patriotic Jewish family to which the Maccabees belonged; Maccabean; as, the Asmonean dynasty. [Written also Asmonæan.] 

ASMONEAN:  One of the Asmonean family. The Asmoneans were leaders and rulers of the Jews from 168 to 35 b. c. 

ASOAK:  Soaking. 

ASOMATOUS:  Without a material body; incorporeal. Todd. 

ASONANT:  Not sounding or sounded. [R.] C. C. Felton. 

ASP:  Same as Aspen. "Trembling poplar or asp." Martyn. 

ASP:  A small, hooded, poisonous serpent of Egypt and adjacent countries, whose bite is often fatal. It is the Naja haje. The name is also applied to other poisonous serpents, esp. to Vipera aspis of southern Europe. See Haje. 

ASPARAGINE:  A white, nitrogenous, crystallizable substance, C4H8N2O3+H2O, found in many plants, and first obtained from asparagus. It is believed to aid in the disposition of nitrogenous matter throughout the plant; -- called also altheine. 

ASPARAGINOUS:  Pertaining or allied to, or resembling, asparagus; having shoots which are eaten like asparagus; as, asparaginous vegetables. 

ASPARAGUS:  A genus of perennial plants belonging to the natural order Liliaceæ, and having erect much branched stems, and very slender branchlets which are sometimes mistaken for leaves. Asparagus racemosus is a shrubby climbing plant with fragrant flowers. Specifically: The Asparagus officinalis, a species cultivated in gardens.  2. The young and tender shoots of A. officinalis, which form a valuable and well-known article of food.  Note: This word was formerly pronounced sparrowgrass; but this pronunciation is now confined exclusively to uneducated people. Asparagus beetle (Zoöl.), a small beetle (Crioceris asparagi) injurious to asparagus. 

ASPARTIC:  Pertaining to, or derived, asparagine; as, aspartic acid. 

ASPECT:  The situation of planets or stars with respect to one another, or the angle formed by the rays of light proceeding from them and meeting at the eye; the joint look of planets or stars upon each other or upon the earth. Milton.  Note: The aspects which two planets can assume are five; sextile,  7. (Astrol.)  The influence of the stars for good or evil; as, an ill aspect. Shak. The astrologers call the evil influences of the stars evil aspects. Bacon. Aspect of a plane (Geom.), the direction of the plane. 

ASPECT:  To behold; to look at. [Obs.] 

ASPECTABLE:  Capable of being; visible. "The aspectable world." Ray. "Aspectable stars." Mrs. Browning. 

ASPECTANT:  Facing each other. 

ASPECTED:  Having an aspect. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

ASPECTION:  The act of viewing; a look. [Obs.]  ASPECT RATIO Aspect ratio. (Aëronautics)  The ratio of the long to the short side of an aëroplane, aërocurve, or wing.  ASPEN; ASP Asp"en, Asp, n. Etym: [AS. æsp, æps; akin to OHG. aspa, Icel. ösp, Dan. æsp, Sw. asp, D. esp, G. espe, äspe, aspe; cf. Lettish apsa, Lith. apuszis.] (Bot.)  One of several species of poplar bearing this name, especially the Populus tremula, so called from the trembling of its leaves, which move with the slightest impulse of the air. 

ASPEN:  Of or pertaining to the aspen, or resembling it; made of aspen wood. Nor aspen leaves confess the gentlest breeze. Gay. 

ASPER:  Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce. [Archaic] "An asper sound." Bacon. 

ASPER:  The rough breathing; a mark placed over an initial vowel sound or over h before it; thus hws, pronounced h, hrj'twr, pronounced hra\'b6t. 

ASPER:  A Turkish money of account (formerly a coin), of little value; the 120th part of a piaster. 

ASPERATE:  To make rough or uneven. The asperated part of its surface. Boyle. 

ASPERATION:  The act of asperating; a making or becoming rough. Bailey. 

ASPERGES:  See Wateringpot shell. 

ASPERGILLIFORM:  Resembling the aspergillum in form; as, an aspergilliform stigma. Gray.  ASPERIFOLIATE; ASPERIFOLIOUS As`per*i*fo"li*ate, As`per*i*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. asper rough + folium leaf.] (Bot.)  Having rough leaves.  Note: By some applied to the natural order now called Boraginaceæ or borageworts. 

ASPERMATOUS:  Aspermous. 

ASPERMOUS:  Destitute of seeds; aspermatous. 

ASPERNE:  To spurn; to despise. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

ASPEROUS:  Rough; uneven. Boyle. 

ASPERSED:  Having an indefinite number of small charges scattered or strewed over the surface. Cussans.  2. Bespattered; slandered; calumniated. Motley. 

ASPERSER:  One who asperses; especially, one who vilifies another. 

ASPERSIVE:  Tending to asperse; defamatory; slanderous.  -- As*pers"ive*ly, adv. 

ASPERSOIR:  An aspergill. 

ASPHALT:  To cover with asphalt; as, to asphalt a roof; asphalted streets. 

ASPHALTE:  Asphaltic mastic or cement. See Asphalt, 2. 

ASPHALTIC:  Pertaining to, of the nature of, or containing, asphalt; bituminous. "Asphaltic pool." "Asphaltic slime." Milton. 

ASPHALTITE:  Asphaltic. 

ASPHALTITE:  Asphaltic. Bryant. 

ASPHALTUS:  See Asphalt. 

ASPHODEL:  A general name for a plant of the genus Asphodelus. The asphodels are hardy perennial plants, several species of which are cultivated for the beauty of their flowers.  Note: The name is also popularly given to species of other genera. The asphodel of the early English and French poets was the daffodil. The asphodel of the Greek poets is supposed to be the Narcissus poeticus. Dr. Prior. Pansies, and violets, and asphodel. Milton. 

ASPHYCTIC:  Pertaining to asphyxia.  ASPHYXIA; ASPHYXY As*phyx"i*a, As*phyx"y, n. Etym: [NL. asphyxia, fr. Gr. (Med.)  Apparent death, or suspended animation; the condition which results from interruption of respiration, as in suffocation or drowning, or the inhalation of irrespirable gases. 

ASPHYXIAL:  Of or relating to asphyxia; as, asphyxial phenomena. 

ASPHYXIATE:  To bring to a state of asphyxia; to suffocate.  Note: [Used commonly in the past pple.]  ASPHYXIATED; ASPHYXIED As*phyx"i*a`ted, As*phyx"ied, p. p.  In a state of asphyxia; suffocated. 

ASPHYXIATION:  The act of causing asphyxia; a state of asphyxia. 

ASPIC:  A European species of lavender (Lavandula spica), which produces a volatile oil. See Spike. 

ASPIC:  A savory meat jelly containing portions of fowl, game, fish, hard boiled eggs, etc. Thackeray. 

ASPIDOBRANCHIA:  A group of Gastropoda, with limpetlike shells, including the abalone shells and keyhole limpets. 

ASPIRANT:  Aspiring. 

ASPIRANT:  One who aspires; one who eagerly seeks some high position or object of attainment. In consequence of the resignations . . . the way to greatness was left clear to a new set of aspirants. Macaulay. 

ASPIRATE:  To pronounce with a breathing, an aspirate, or an h sound; as, we aspirate the words horse and house; to aspirate a vowel or a liquid consonant. 

ASPIRATE:  Pronounced with the h sound or with audible breath. But yet they are not aspirate, i. e., with such an aspiration as h. Holder. 

ASPIRATOR:  An apparatus for passing air or gases through or over certain liquids or solids, or for exhausting a closed vessel, by means of suction.  2. (Med.)  An instrument for the evacuation of the fluid contents of tumors or collections of blood. 

ASPIRATORY:  Of or pertaining to breathing; suited to the inhaling of air 

ASPIRE:  To aspire to; to long for; to try to reach; to mount to. [Obs.] That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds. Shak. 

ASPIRE:  Aspiration. [Obs.] Chapman. 

ASPIREMENT:  Aspiration. [Obs.] 

ASPIRER:  One who aspires. 

ASPIRIN:  A white crystalline compound of acetyl and salicylic acid used as a drug for the salicylic acid liberated from it in the intestines. 

ASPIRING:  That aspires; as, an Aspiring mind.  -- As*pir"ing*ly, adv.  -- As*pir"ing*ness, n. 

ASPISH:  Pertaining to, or like, an asp. 

ASPORTATION:  The felonious removal of goods from the place where they were deposited.  Note: It is adjudged to be larceny, though the goods are not carried from the house or apartment. Blackstone. 

ASPRAWL:  Sprawling. 

ASQUAT:  Squatting. 

ASQUINT:  With the eye directed to one side; not in the straight line of vision; obliquely; awry, so as to see distortedly; as, to look asquint. 

ASS:  A quadruped of the genus Equus (E. asinus), smaller than the horse, and having a peculiarly harsh bray and long ears. The tame or domestic ass is patient, slow, and sure-footed, and has become the type of obstinacy and stupidity. There are several species of wild asses which are swift-footed.  2. A dull, heavy, stupid fellow; a dolt. Shak. Asses' Bridge. Etym: [L. pons asinorum.] The fifth proposition of the first book of Euclid, "The angles at the base of an isosceles triangle are equal to one another." [Sportive] "A schoolboy, stammering out his Asses' Bridge." F. Harrison.  -- To make an ass of one's self, to do or say something very foolish or absurd. 

ASSAFOETIDA:  Same as Asafetida.  ASSAGAI; ASSEGAI As"sa*gai, As"se*gai, n. Etym: [Pg. azagaia, Sp. azagaya, fr. a Berber word. Cf. Lancegay.]  A spear used by tribes in South Africa as a missile and for stabbing, a kind of light javelin. 

ASSAI:  A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow. 

ASSAILABLE:  Capable of being assailed. 

ASSAILANT:  Assailing; attacking. Milton. 

ASSAILANT:  One who, or that which, assails, attacks, or assaults; an assailer. An assailant of the church. Macaulay. 

ASSAILER:  One who assails. 

ASSAILMENT:  The act or power of assailing; attack; assault. [R.] His most frequent assailment was the headache. Johnson. 

ASSAMAR:  The peculiar bitter substance, soft or liquid, and of a yellow color, produced when meat, bread, gum, sugar, starch, and the like, are roasted till they turn brown. 

ASSAMESE:  Of or pertaining to Assam, a province of British India, or to its inhabitants.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or natives of Assam.  ASSAPAN; ASSAPANIC As`sa*pan", As`sa*pan"ic, n. Etym: [Prob. Indian name.] (Zoöl.)  The American flying squirrel (Pteromys volucella). 

ASSART:  The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thus destroying the tickets or coverts of a forest. Spelman. Cowell.  2. A piece of land cleared of trees and bushes, and fitted for cultivation; a clearing. Ash. Assart land, forest land cleared of woods and brush. 

ASSART:  To grub up, as trees; to commit an assart upon; as, to assart land or trees. Ashmole. 

ASSASSIN:  One who kills, or attempts to kill, by surprise or secret assault; one who treacherously murders any one unprepared for defense. 

ASSASSIN:  To assassinate. [Obs.] Stillingfleet. 

ASSASSINATION:  The act of assassinating; a killing by treacherous violence. 

ASSASSINATOR:  An assassin. 

ASSASSINOUS:  Murderous. Milton. 

ASSASTION:  Roasting. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ASSAULT:  An apparently violent attempt, or willful offer with force or violence, to do hurt to another; an attempt or offer to beat another, accompanied by a degree of violence, but without touching his person, as by lifting the fist, or a cane, in a threatening manner, or by striking at him, and missing him. If the blow aimed takes effect, it is a battery. Blackstone. Wharton. Practically, however, the word assault is used to include the battery. Mozley & W.  Syn.  -- Attack; invasion; incursion; descent; onset; onslaught; charge; storm. 

ASSAULTABLE:  Capable of being assaulted. 

ASSAULTER:  One who assaults, or violently attacks; an assailant. E. Hall. 

ASSAY:  The act or process of ascertaining the proportion of a particular metal in an ore or alloy; especially, the determination of the proportion of gold or silver in bullion or coin.  6. The alloy or metal to be assayed. Ure. Assay and essay are radically the same word; but modern usage has appropriated assay chiefly to experiments in metallurgy, and essay to intellectual and bodily efforts. See Essay.]  Note: Assay is used adjectively or as the first part of a compound; as, assay balance, assay furnace. Assay master, an officer who assays or tests gold or silver coin or bullion.  -- Assay ton, a weight of 29.1662/3 grams. 

ASSAY:  To attempt, try, or endeavor. [Archaic. In this sense essay is now commonly used.] She thrice assayed to speak. Dryden. 

ASSAYABLE:  That may be assayed. 

ASSAYER:  One who assays. Specifically: One who examines metallic ores or compounds, for the purpose of determining the amount of any particular metal in the same, especially of gold or silver. 

ASSAYING:  The act or process of testing, esp. of analyzing or examining metals and ores, to determine the proportion of pure metal.  ASSAY POUND As"say pound.  A small standard weight used in assaying bullion, etc., sometimes equaling 0.5 gram, but varying with the assayer.  ASSAY TON Assay ton.  A weight of 29.166 + grams used in assaying, for convenience. Since it bears the same relation to the milligram that a ton of 2000 avoirdupois pounds does to the troy ounce, the weight in milligrams of precious metal obtained from an assay ton of ore gives directly the number of ounces to the ton. 

ASSE:  A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama) of South Africa, valued for its fur. 

ASSECURATION:  Assurance; certainty. [Obs.] 

ASSECURE:  To make sure or safe; to assure. [Obs.] Hooker. 

ASSECUTION:  An obtaining or acquiring. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

ASSEGAI:  Same as Assagai. 

ASSEMBLE:  To collect into one place or body; to bring or call together; to convene; to congregate. Thither he assembled all his train. Milton. All the men of Israel assembled themselves. 1 Kings viii. 2. 

ASSEMBLE:  To meet or come together, as a number of individuals; to convene; to congregate. Dryden. The Parliament assembled in November. W. Massey. 

ASSEMBLE:  To liken; to compare. [Obs.] Bribes may be assembled to pitch. Latimer. 

ASSEMBLER:  One who assembles a number of individuals; also, one of a number assembled. 

ASSEMBLY:  A beat of the drum or sound of the bugle as a signal to troops to assemble.  Note: In some of the United States, the legislature, or the popular branch of it, is called the Assembly, or the General Assembly. In the Presbyterian Church, the General Assembly is the highest ecclesiastical tribunal, composed of ministers and ruling elders delegated from each presbytery; as, the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States, or of Scotland. Assembly room, a room in which persons assemble, especially for dancing.  -- Unlawful assembly (Law), a meeting of three or more persons on a common plan, in such a way as to cause a reasonable apprehension that they will disturb the peace tumultuously.  -- Westminster Assembly, a convocation, consisting chiefly of divines, which, by act of Parliament, assembled July 1, 1643, and remained in session some years. It framed the "Confession of Faith," the "Larger Catechism," and the "Shorter Catechism," which are still received as authority by Presbyterians, and are substantially accepted by Congregationalists.  Syn.  -- See Assemblage. 

ASSEMBLYMAN:  A member of an assembly, especially of the lower branch of a state legislature. 

ASSENT:  To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement, acquiescence, concurrence, or concession. Who informed the governor . . . And the Jews also assented, saying that these things were so. Acts xxiv. 9. The princess assented to all that was suggested. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To yield; agree; acquiesce; concede; concur. 

ASSENT:  The act of assenting; the act of the mind in admitting or agreeing to anything; concurrence with approval; consent; agreement; acquiescence. Faith is the assent to any proposition, on the credit of the proposer. Locke. The assent, if not the approbation, of the prince. Prescott. Too many people read this ribaldry with assent and admiration. Macaulay. Royal assent, in England, the assent of the sovereign to a bill which has passed both houses of Parliament, after which it becomes law.  Syn.  -- Concurrence; acquiescence; approval; accord.  -- Assent, Consent. Assent is an act of the understanding, consent of the will or feelings. We assent to the views of others when our minds come to the same conclusion with theirs as to what is true, right, or admissible. We consent when there is such a concurrence of our will with their desires and wishes that we decide to comply with their requests. The king of England gives his assent, not his consent, to acts of Parliament, because, in theory at least, he is not governed by personal feelings or choice, but by a deliberate, judgment as to the common good. We also use assent in cases where a proposal is made which involves but little interest or feeling. A lady may assent to a gentleman's opening the window; but if he offers himself in marriage, he must wait for her consent. 

ASSENTATION:  Insincere, flattering, or obsequious assent; hypocritical or pretended concurrence. Abject flattery and indiscriminate assentation degrade as much as indiscriminate contradiction and noisy debate disgust. Ld. Chesterfield. 

ASSENTATOR:  An obsequious; a flatterer. [R.] 

ASSENTATORY:  Flattering; obsequious. [Obs.] -- As*sent"a*to*ri*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

ASSENTER:  One who assents. 

ASSENTIENT:  Assenting. 

ASSENTING:  Giving or implying assent.  -- As*sent"ing*ly, adv. 

ASSENTIVE:  Giving assent; of the nature of assent; complying.  -- As*sent"ive*ness, n. 

ASSENTMENT:  Assent; agreement. [Obs.] 

ASSERTER:  One who asserts; one who avers pr maintains; an assertor. The inflexible asserter of the rights of the church. Milman. 

ASSERTIVE:  Positive; affirming confidently; affirmative; peremptory. In a confident and assertive form. Glanvill. As*sert"ive*ly, adv.  -- As*sert"ive*ness, n. 

ASSERTOR:  One who asserts or avers; one who maintains or vindicates a claim or a right; an affirmer, supporter, or vindicator; a defender; an asserter. The assertors of liberty said not a word. Macaulay. Faithful assertor of thy country's cause. Prior. 

ASSERTORIAL:  Asserting that a thing is; -- opposed to problematical and apodeictical. 

ASSERTORY:  Affirming; maintaining. Arguments . . . assertory, not probatory. Jer. Taylor. An assertory, not a promissory, declaration. Bentham. A proposition is assertory, when it enounces what is known as actual. Sir W. Hamilton. 

ASSESSABLE:  Liable to be assessed or taxed; as, assessable property. 

ASSESSEE:  One who is assessed. 

ASSESSION:  A sitting beside or near. 

ASSESSORIAL:  Of or pertaining to an assessor, or to a court of assessors. Coxe. 

ASSESSORSHIP:  The office or function of an assessor. 

ASSET:  Any article or separable part of one's assets. 

ASSEVER:  See Asseverate. [Archaic] 

ASSEVERATE:  To affirm or aver positively, or with solemnity.  Syn.  -- To affirm; aver; protest; declare. See Affirm. 

ASSEVERATION:  The act of asseverating, or that which is asseverated; positive affirmation or assertion; solemn declaration. Another abuse of the tongue I might add, -- vehement asseverations upon slight and trivial occasions. Ray. 

ASSEVERATIVE:  Characterized by asseveration; asserting positively. 

ASSEVERATORY:  Asseverative. 

ASSIBILATE:  To make sibilant; to change to a sibilant. J. Peile. 

ASSIBILATION:  Change of a non-sibilant letter to a sibilant, as of -tion to - shun, duke to ditch. 

ASSIDEAN:  One of a body of devoted Jews who opposed the Hellenistic Jews, and supported the Asmoneans. 

ASSIDENT:  Usually attending a disease, but not always; as, assident signs, or symptoms. 

ASSIDUATE:  Unremitting; assiduous. [Obs.] "Assiduate labor." Fabyan. 

ASSIEGE:  To besiege. [Obs.] "Assieged castles." Spenser. 

ASSIEGE:  A siege. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ASSIENTIST:  A shareholder of the Assiento company; one of the parties to the Assiento contract. Bancroft. 

ASSIENTO:  A contract or convention between Spain and other powers for furnishing negro slaves for the Spanish dominions in America, esp. the contract made with Great Britain in 1713. 

ASSIGN:  To transfer, or make over to another, esp. to transfer to, and vest in, certain persons, called assignees, for the benefit of creditors. To assign dower, to set out by metes and bounds the widow's share or portion in an estate. Kent. 

ASSIGN:  A thing pertaining or belonging to something else; an appurtenance. [Obs.] Six French rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdles, hangers, and so. Shak. 

ASSIGN:  A person to whom property or an interest is transferred; as, a deed to a man and his heirs and assigns. 

ASSIGNABILITY:  The quality of being assignable. 

ASSIGNABLE:  Capable of being assigned, allotted, specified, or designated; as, an assignable note or bill; an assignable reason; an assignable quantity. 

ASSIGNAT:  One of the notes, bills, or bonds, issued as currency by the revolutionary government of France (1790-1796), and based on the security of the lands of the church and of nobles which had been appropriated by the state. 

ASSIGNEE:  In England, the persons appointed, under a commission of bankruptcy, to manage the estate of a bankrupt for the benefit of his creditors. 

ASSIGNER:  One who assigns, appoints, allots, or apportions. 

ASSIGNOR:  An assigner; a person who assigns or transfers an interest; as, the assignor of a debt or other chose in action. 

ASSIMILABILITY:  The quality of being assimilable. [R.] Coleridge. 

ASSIMILABLE:  That may be assimilated; that may be likened, or appropriated and incorporated. 

ASSIMILATION:  The conversion of nutriment into the fluid or solid substance of the body, by the processes of digestion and absorption, whether in plants or animals. Not conversing the body, not repairing it by assimilation, but preserving it by ventilation. Sir T. Browne.  Note: The term assimilation has been limited by some to the final process by which the nutritive matter of the blood is converted into the substance of the tissues and organs. 

ASSIMILATIVE:  Tending to, or characterized by, assimilation; that assimilates or causes assimilation; as, an assimilative process or substance. 

ASSIMILATORY:  Tending to assimilate, or produce assimilation; as, assimilatory organs. 

ASSIMULATION:  Assimilation. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ASSINEGO:  See Asinego. 

ASSISH:  Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate. Such . . . appear to be of the assich kind . . . Udall. 

ASSIST:  To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time of distress; to help; to aid; to succor. Assist me, knight. I am undone! Shak.  Syn.  -- To help; aid; second; back; support; relieve; succor; befriend; sustain; favor. See Help. 

ASSISTANT:  Of the second grade in the staff of the army; as, an assistant surgeon. [U.S.]  Note: In the English army it designates the third grade in any particular branch of the staff. Farrow. 

ASSISTANTLY:  In a manner to give aid. [R.] 

ASSISTER:  An assistant; a helper. 

ASSISTFUL:  Helpful. 

ASSISTIVE:  Lending aid, helping. 

ASSISTLESS:  Without aid or help. [R.] Pope. 

ASSISTOR:  A assister. 

ASSITHMENT:  See Assythment. [Obs.] 

ASSIZER:  An officer who has the care or inspection of weights and measures, etc. 

ASSIZOR:  A juror. 

ASSOBER:  To make or keep sober. [Obs.] Gower. 

ASSOCIABILITY:  The quality of being associable, or capable of association; associableness. "The associability of feelings." H. Spencer. 

ASSOCIABLE:  Liable to be affected by sympathy with other parts; -- said of organs, nerves, muscles, etc. The stomach, the most associable of all the organs of the animal body. Med. Rep. 

ASSOCIABLENESS:  Associability. 

ASSOCIATE:  Connected by habit or sympathy; as, associate motions, such as occur sympathetically, in consequence of preceding motions. E. Darwin. 

ASSOCIATED:  Joined as a companion; brought into association; accompanying; combined. Associated movements (Physiol.), consensual movements which accompany voluntary efforts without our consciousness. Dunglison. 

ASSOCIATESHIP:  The state of an associate, as in Academy or an office. 

ASSOCIATIONISM:  The doctrine or theory held by associationists. 

ASSOCIATIONIST:  One who explains the higher functions and relations of the soul by the association of ideas; e. g., Hartley, J. C. Mill. 

ASSOCIATIVE:  Having the quality of associating; tending or leading to association; as, the associative faculty. Hugh Miller. 

ASSOCIATOR:  An associate; a confederate or partner in any scheme. How Pennsylvania's air agrees with Quakers, And Carolina's with associators. Dryden. 

ASSOIL:  To soil; to stain. [Obs. or Poet.] Beau. & Fl. Ne'er assoil my cobwebbed shield. Wordsworth. 

ASSOILMENT:  Act of assoiling, or state of being assoiled; absolution; acquittal. 

ASSOILMENT:  A soiling; defilement.  ASSOILZIE; ASSOILYIE As*soil"zie, As*soil"yie, v. t. Etym: [Old form assoil. See Assoil.] (Scots Law)  To absolve; to acquit by sentence of court. God assoilzie him for the sin of bloodshed. Sir W. Scott. 

ASSONANCE:  A peculiar species of rhyme, in which the last accented vowel and those which follow it in one word correspond in sound with the vowels of another word, while the consonants of the two words are unlike in sound; as, calamo and platano, baby and chary. The assonance is peculiar to the Spaniard. Hallam.  3. Incomplete correspondence. Assonance between facts seemingly remote. Lowell. 

ASSONANT:  Pertaining to the peculiar species of rhyme called assonance; not consonant. 

ASSONANTAL:  Assonant. 

ASSONATE:  To correspond in sound. 

ASSORT:  To agree; to be in accordance; to be adapted; to suit; to fall into a class or place. Mitford. 

ASSORTED:  Selected; culled. 

ASSOT:  To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate. [Obs.] Some ecstasy assotted had his sense. Spenser. 

ASSOT:  Dazed; foolish; infatuated. [Obs.] Willie, I ween thou be assot. Spenser. 

ASSUAGE:  To soften, in a figurative sense; to allay, mitigate, ease, or lessen, as heat, pain, or grief; to appease or pacify, as passion or tumult; to satisfy, as appetite or desire. Refreshing winds the summer's heat assuage. Addison. To assuage the sorrows of a desolate old man Burke. The fount at which the panting mind assuages Her thirst of knowledge. Byron.  Syn.  -- To alleviate; mitigate; appease; soothe; calm; tranquilize; relieve. See Alleviate. 

ASSUAGE:  To abate or subside. [Archaic] "The waters assuaged." Gen. vii. 1. The plague being come to a crisis, its fury began to assuage. De Foe. 

ASSUAGEMENT:  Mitigation; abatement. 

ASSUAGER:  One who, or that which, assuages. 

ASSUASIVE:  Mitigating; tranquilizing; soothing. [R.] Music her soft assuasive voice applies. Pope. 

ASSUBJUGATE:  To bring into subjection. [Obs.] Shak. 

ASSUEFACTION:  The act of accustoming, or the state of being accustomed; habituation. [Obs.] Custom and studies efform the soul like wax, and by assuefaction introduce a nature. Jer. Taylor. 

ASSUETUDE:  Accustomedness; habit; habitual use. Assuetude of things hurtful doth make them lose their force to hurt. Bacon. 

ASSUMABLE:  That may be assumed. 

ASSUMABLY:  By way of assumption. 

ASSUME:  To undertake, as by a promise. Burrill. 

ASSUMEDLY:  By assumption. 

ASSUMENT:  A patch; an addition; a piece put on. [Obs.] John Lewis (1731). 

ASSUMER:  One who assumes, arrogates, pretends, or supposes. W. D. Whitney. 

ASSUMING:  Pretentious; taking much upon one's self; presumptuous. Burke. 

ASSUMPT:  To take up; to elevate; to assume. [Obs.] Sheldon. 

ASSUMPT:  That which is assumed; an assumption. [Obs.] The sun of all your assumpts is this. Chillingworth. 

ASSUMPTION:  The minor or second proposition in a categorical syllogism.  5. The taking of a person up into heaven. Hence: (Rom. Cath. & Greek Churches)  A festival in honor of the ascent of the Virgin Mary into heaven. 

ASSUMPTIVE:  Assumed, or capable of being assumed; characterized by assumption; making unwarranted claims.  -- As*sump"tive*ly, adv. Assumptive arms (Her.), originally, arms which a person had a right to assume, in consequence of an exploit; now, those assumed without sanction of the Heralds' College. Percy Smith. 

ASSURANCE:  Any written or other legal evidence of the conveyance of property; a conveyance; a deed.  Note: In England, the legal evidences of the conveyance of property are called the common assurances of the kingdom. Blackstone. 

ASSURE:  To insure; to covenant to indemnify for loss, or to pay a specified sum at death. See Insure.  Syn.  -- To declare; aver; avouch; vouch; assert; asseverate; protest; persuade; convince. 

ASSURED:  Made sure; safe; insured; certain; indubitable; not doubting; bold to excess. 

ASSURED:  One whose life or property is insured. 

ASSUREDLY:  Certainly; indubitably. "The siege assuredly I'll raise." Shak. 

ASSUREDNESS:  The state of being assured; certainty; full confidence. 

ASSURGENCY:  Act of rising. The . . . assurgency of the spirit through the body. Coleridge. 

ASSURGENT:  Ascending; (Bot.)  rising obliquely; curving upward. Gray. 

ASSURING:  That assures; tending to assure; giving confidence.  -- As*sur"ing*ly, adv. 

ASSWAGE:  See Assuage. 

ASSYRIAN:  Of or pertaining to Assyria, or to its inhabitants.  -- n. A native or an inhabitant of Assyria; the language of Assyria. 

ASSYRIOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to Assyriology; as, Assyriological studies. 

ASSYRIOLOGIST:  One versed in Assyriology; a student of Assyrian archæology. 

ASSYRIOLOGY:  The science or study of the antiquities, language, etc., of ancient Assyria. 

ASSYTHMENT:  Indemnification for injury; satisfaction. [Chiefly in Scots law] 

ASTACUS:  A genus of crustaceans, containing the crawfish of fresh-water lobster of Europe, and allied species of western North America. See Crawfish. 

ASTARBOARD:  Over to the starboard side; -- said of the tiller. 

ASTART:  Same as Astert. [Obs.] 

ASTARTE:  A genus of bivalve mollusks, common on the coasts of America and Europe. 

ASTATE:  Estate; state. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ASTATIC:  Having little or no tendency to take a fixed or definite position or direction: thus, a suspended magnetic needle, when rendered astatic, loses its polarity, or tendency to point in a given direction. Astatic pair (Magnetism), a pair of magnetic needles so mounted as to be nearly or quite astatic, as in some galvanometers. 

ASTATICALLY:  In an astatic manner. 

ASTATICISM:  The state of being astatic. 

ASTATIZE:  To render astatic. 

ASTATKI:  A thick liquid residuum obtained in the distillation of Russian petroleum, much used as fuel. 

ASTAY:  An anchor is said to be astay, in heaving it, an acute angle is formed between the cable and the surface of the water. 

ASTEISM:  Genteel irony; a polite and ingenious manner of deriding another. 

ASTEL:  An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads in a mine. 

ASTER:  A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers; starwort; Michaelmas daisy.  2. (Floriculture)  A plant of the genus Callistephus. Many varieties (called China asters, German asters, etc.) are cultivated for their handsome compound flowers. 

ASTERIAS:  A genus of echinoderms.  Note: Formerly the group of this name included nearly all starfishes and ophiurans. Now it is restricted to a genus including the commonest shore starfishes. 

ASTERIATED:  Radiated, with diverging rays; as, asteriated sapphire. 

ASTERIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Asterioidea.  -- n.  A starfish; one of the Asterioidea.  ASTERIOIDEA; ASTERIDEA As*te`ri*oid"e*a, As`ter*id"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid. See Asterias.] (Zoöl.)  A class of Echinodermata including the true starfishes. The rays vary in number and always have ambulacral grooves below. The body is starshaped or pentagonal. 

ASTERION:  The point on the side of the skull where the lambdoid, parieto- mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures. 

ASTERISCUS:  The smaller of the two otoliths found in the inner ear of many fishes. 

ASTERISK:  The figure of a star, thus, 

ASTERISM:  An optical property of some crystals which exhibit a star- shaped by reflected light, as star sapphire, or by transmitted light, as some mica. 

ASTERNAL:  Not sternal; -- said of ribs which do not join the sternum. 

ASTEROID:  A starlike body; esp. one of the numerous small planets whose orbits lie between those of Mars and Jupiter; -- called also planetoids and minor planets. 

ASTEROIDAL:  Of or pertaining to an asteroid, or to the asteroids. 

ASTEROLEPIS:  A genus of fishes, some of which were eighteen or twenty feet long, found in a fossil state in the Old Red Sandstone. Hugh Miller. 

ASTEROPE:  One of the Pleiades; -- called also Sterope.  2.  (Astron.) A double star in the Pleiades (21 k and 22 l Pleiadum, of the 5.8 and 6.4 magnitude respectively), appearing as a single star of the 5.3 magnitude to the naked eye. 

ASTEROPHYLLITE:  A fossil plant from the coal formations of Europe and America, now regarded as the branchlets and foliage of calamites. 

ASTERT:  To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ASTERT:  To escape. [Obs.] Chaucer.  ASTHENIA; ASTHENY As`the*ni"a, As"the*ny, n. Etym: [NL. asthenia, Gr. (Med.)  Want or loss of strength; debility; diminution of the vital forces. 

ASTHENIC:  Characterized by, or pertaining to, debility; weak; debilitating. 

ASTHENOPIA:  Weakness of sight. Quain.  -- As`the*nop"ic, a. 

ASTHMA:  A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to a spasmodic contraction of the bronchi), recurring at intervals, accompanied with a wheezing sound, a sense of constriction in the chest, a cough, and expectoration.  ASTHMA PAPER Asth"ma pa"per.  Paper impregnated with saltpeter. The fumes from the burning paper are often inhaled as an alleviative by asthmatics.  ASTHMATIC; ASTHMATICAL Asth*mat"ic, Asth*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. asthmaticus, Gr.  Of or pertaining to asthma; as, an asthmatic cough; liable to, or suffering from, asthma; as, an asthmatic patient.  -- Asth*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ASTHMATIC:  A person affected with asthma. 

ASTIGMATIC:  Affected with, or pertaining to, astigmatism; as, astigmatic eyes; also, remedying astigmatism; as, astigmatic lenses. 

ASTIGMATISM:  A defect of the eye or of a lens, in consequence of which the rays derived from one point are not brought to a single focal point, thus causing imperfect images or indistictness of vision.  Note: The term is applied especially to the defect causing images of lines having a certain direction to be indistinct, or imperfectly seen, while those of lines transverse to the former are distinct, or clearly seen. 

ASTIPULATE:  To assent. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ASTIPULATION:  Stipulation; agreement. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ASTIR:  Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed.  ASTOMATOUS; ASTOMOUS A*stom"a*tous, As"to*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.  Not possessing a mouth.  ASTON; ASTONE As*ton", As*tone", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astoned, Astond, or Astound.] Etym: [See Astonish.]  To stun; to astonish; to stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ASTONIED:  Stunned; astonished. See Astony. [Archaic] And I astonied fell and could not pray. Mrs. Browning. 

ASTONISHEDLY:  In an astonished manner. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

ASTONISHING:  Very wonderful; of a nature to excite astonishment; as, an astonishing event.  Syn.  -- Amazing; surprising; wonderful; marvelous. As*ton"ish*ing*ly, adv.  -- As*ton"ish*ing*ness, n. 

ASTONY:  To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay. [Archaic] The captain of the Helots . . . strake Palladius upon the side of his head, that he reeled astonied. Sir P. Sidney. This sodeyn cas this man astonied so, That reed he wex, abayst, and al quaking. Chaucer. 

ASTOOP:  In a stooping or inclined position. Gay. 

ASTOUND:  Stunned; astounded; astonished. [Archaic] Spenser. Thus Ellen, dizzy and astound. As sudden ruin yawned around. Sir W. Scott. 

ASTOUNDING:  Of a nature to astound; astonishing; amazing; as, an astounding force, statement, or fact.  -- As*tound"ing*ly, adv. 

ASTOUNDMENT:  Amazement. Coleridge. 

ASTRACHAN:  See Astrakhan. 

ASTRADDLE:  In a straddling position; astride; bestriding; as, to sit astraddle a horse. 

ASTRAEAN:  Pertaining to the genus Astræa or the family Astræidæ.  -- n.  A coral of the family Astræidæ; a star coral. 

ASTRAGAL:  A convex molding of rounded surface, generally from half to three quarters of a circle.  2. (Gun.)  A round molding encircling a cannon near the mouth. 

ASTRAGALAR:  Of or pertaining to the astragalus. 

ASTRAGALOID:  Resembling the astragalus in form. 

ASTRAGALOMANCY:  Divination by means of small bones or dice. 

ASTRAGALUS:  The ankle bone, or hock bone; the bone of the tarsus which articulates with the tibia at the ankle.  2. (Bot.)  A genus of papilionaceous plants, of the tribe Galegeæ, containing numerous species, two of which are called, in English, milk vetch and licorice vetch. Gum tragacanth is obtained from different oriental species, particularly the A. gummifer and A. verus.  3. (Arch.)  See Astragal, 1. 

ASTRAKHAN:  Of or pertaining to Astrakhan in Russia or its products; made of an Astrakhan skin.  -- n.  The skin of stillborn or young lambs of that region, the curled wool of which resembles fur. 

ASTRAL:  Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry; starlike. Shines only with an astral luster. I. Taylor. Some astral forms I must invoke by prayer. Dryden. Astral lamp, an Argand lamp so constructed that no shadow is cast upon the table by the flattened ring-shaped reservoir in which the oil is contained.  -- Astral spirits, spirits formerly supposed to live in the heavenly bodies or the aërial regions, and represented in the Middle Ages as fallen angels, spirits of the dead, or spirits originating in fire. 

ASTRAND:  Stranded. Sir W. Scott. 

ASTRAY:  Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense; wandering; as, to lead one astray. Ye were as sheep going astray. 1 Pet. ii. 25. 

ASTRICT:  To restrict the tenure of; as, to astrict lands. See Astriction, 4. Burrill. 

ASTRICT:  Concise; contracted. [Obs.] Weever. 

ASTRICTION:  An obligation to have the grain growing on certain lands ground at a certain mill, the owner paying a toll. Bell.  Note: The lands were said to be astricted to the mill. 

ASTRICTIVE:  Binding; astringent.  -- n.  An astringent.  -- As*tric"tive*ly, adv. 

ASTRICTORY:  Astrictive. [R.] 

ASTRIDE:  With one leg on each side, as a man when on horseback; with the legs stretched wide apart; astraddle. Placed astride upon the bars of the palisade. Sir W. Scott. Glasses with horn bows sat astride on his nose. Longfellow. 

ASTRIFEROUS:  Bearing stars. [R.] Blount. 

ASTRINGENCY:  The quality of being astringent; the power of contracting the parts of the body; that quality in medicines or other substances which causes contraction of the organic textures; as, the astringency of tannin. 

ASTRINGENT:  A medicine or other substance that produces contraction in the soft organic textures, and checks discharges of blood, mucus, etc. External astringents are called styptics. Dunglison. 

ASTRINGENTLY:  In an astringent manner. 

ASTRINGER:  A falconer who keeps a goschawk. [Obs.] Shak. Cowell. [Written also austringer.]  ASTRO- As"tro-.  The combining form of the Greek word 'a`stron, meaning star.  ASTROFEL; ASTROFELL As"tro*fel, As"tro*fell, n.  A bitter herb, probably the same as aster, or starwort. Spenser. 

ASTROGENY:  The creation or evolution of the stars or the heavens. H. Spencer. 

ASTROGNOSY:  The science or knowledge of the stars, esp. the fixed stars. Bouvier. 

ASTROGONY:  Same as Astrogeny.  -- As`*tro*gon"ic, a. 

ASTROGRAPHY:  The art of describing or delineating the stars; a description or mapping of the heavens. 

ASTROITE:  A radiated stone or fossil; star-stone. [Obs.] [Written also astrite and astrion.] 

ASTROLABE:  An instrument for observing or showing the positions of the stars. It is now disused.  Note: Among the ancients, it was essentially the armillary sphere. A graduated circle with sights, for taking altitudes at sea, was called an astrolabe in the 18th century. It is now superseded by the quadrant and sextant.  2. A stereographic projection of the sphere on the plane of a great circle, as the equator, or a meridian; a planisphere. Whewell. 

ASTROLATER:  A worshiper of the stars. Morley. 

ASTROLATRY:  The worship of the stars. 

ASTROLITHOLOGY:  The science of aërolites. 

ASTROLOGIAN:  An astrologer. [Obs.]  ASTROLOGIC; ASTROLOGICAL As`tro*log"ic, As`tro*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to astrology; professing or practicing astrology. "Astrologi learning." Hudibras. "Astrological prognostication." Cudworth.  -- As`tro*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ASTROLOGIZE:  To apply astrology to; to study or practice astrology. 

ASTROLOGY:  In its etymological signification, the science of the stars; among the ancients, synonymous with astronomy; subsequently, the art of judging of the influences of the stars upon human affairs, and of foretelling events by their position and aspects.  Note: Astrology was much in vogue during the Middle Ages, and became the parent of modern astronomy, as alchemy did of chemistry. It was divided into two kinds: judicial astrology, which assumed to foretell the fate and acts of nations and individuals, and natural astrology, which undertook to predict events of inanimate nature, such as changes of the weather, etc. 

ASTROMANTIC:  Of or pertaining to divination by means of the stars; astrologic. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

ASTROMETEOROLOGY:  The investigation of the relation between the sun, moon, and stars, and the weather.  -- As`*tro*me`te*or`o*log"ic*al, a.  -- As`tro*me`te*or*ol"o*gist, n. 

ASTROMETER:  An instrument for comparing the relative amount of the light of stars. 

ASTROMETRY:  The art of making measurements among the stars, or of determining their relative magnitudes. 

ASTRONOMIAN:  An astrologer. [Obs.] 

ASTRONOMIC:  Astronomical. 

ASTRONOMICAL:  Of or pertaining to astronomy; in accordance with the methods or principles of astronomy.  -- As`tro*nom"ic*al*ly, adv. Astronomical clock. See under Clock.  -- Astronomical day. See under Day.  -- Astronomical fractions, Astronomical numbers. See under Sexagesimal. 

ASTRONOMIZE:  To study or to talk astronomy. [R.] They astronomized in caves. Sir T. Browne. 

ASTROPHEL:  See Astrofel. [Obs.] 

ASTROPHOTOGRAPHY:  The application of photography to the delineation of the sun, moon, and stars. 

ASTROPHOTOMETER:  A photometer for measuring the brightness of stars. 

ASTROPHOTOMETRY:  The determination of the brightness of stars, and also of the sun, moon, and planets. --As`tro*pho`to*met"ric*al (#), a. 

ASTROPHYSICAL:  Pertaining to the physics of astronomical science. 

ASTROPHYSICS:  The science treating of the physical characteristics of the stars and other heavenly bodies, their chemical constitution, light, heat, atmospheres, etc.   Its observations are made with the spectroscope, bolometer, etc., usually in connection with the telescope. 

ASTROPHYTON:  A genus of ophiurans having the arms much branched. 

ASTROSCOPE:  An old astronomical instrument, formed of two cones, on whose surface the constellations were delineated. 

ASTROSCOPY:  Observation of the stars. [Obs.] 

ASTROTHEOLOGY:  Theology founded on observation or knowledge of the celestial bodies. Derham. 

ASTRUCTIVE:  Building up; constructive; -- opposed to destructive. [Obs.] 

ASTUCIOUS:  Subtle; cunning; astute. [R.] Sir W. Scott.  -- As*tu"cious*ly, adv. [R.] 

ASTUCITY:  Craftiness; astuteness. [R.] Carlyle. 

ASTUN:  To stun. [Obs.] "Breathless and astunned." Somerville. 

ASTURIAN:  Of or pertaining to Asturias in Spain.  -- n.  A native of Asturias. 

ASTUTE:  Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.  Syn.  -- Keen; eagle-eyed; penetrating; skilled; discriminating; cunning; sagacious; subtle; wily; crafty. As*tute"ly, adv.  -- As*tute"ness, n. 

ASTYLAR:  Without columns or pilasters. Weale. 

ASTYLLEN:  A small dam to prevent free passage of water in an adit or level. 

ASUNDER:  Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two; separately; into or in different pieces or places. I took my staff, even Beauty, and cut it asunder. Zech. xi. 10. As wide asunder as pole and pole. Froude. 

ASURA:  An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants. 

ASWAIL:  The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus) of India. 

ASWEVE:  To stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ASWING:  In a state of swinging. 

ASWOON:  In a swoon. Chaucer. 

ASWOONED:  In a swoon. 

ASYMMETRAL:  Incommensurable; also, unsymmetrical. [Obs.] D. H. More.  ASYMMETRIC; ASYMMETRICAL As`ym*met"ric, As`ym*met"ri*cal, a. Etym: [See Asymmetrous.]  1. Incommensurable. [Obs.]  2. Not symmetrical; wanting proportion; esp., not bilaterally symmetrical. Huxley. 

ASYMMETROUS:  Asymmetrical. [Obs.] Barrow. 

ASYMMETRY:  Incommensurability. [Obs.] Barrow. 

ASYMPTOTE:  A line which approaches nearer to some curve than assignable distance, but, though infinitely extended, would never meet it. Asymptotes may be straight lines or curves. A rectilinear asymptote may be conceived as a tangent to the curve at an infinite distance. 

ASYNARTETE:  Disconnected; not fitted or adjusted.  -- A*syn"ar*tet"ic, a. Asynartete verse (Pros.), a verse of two members, having different rhythms; as when the first consists of iambuses and the second of trochees. 

ASYNCHRONOUS:  Not simultaneous; not concurrent in time; --opposed to synchronous. 

ASYNDETIC:  Characterized by the use of asyndeton; not connected by conjunctions.  -- As`yn*det"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ASYNDETON:  A figure which omits the connective; as, I came, I saw, I conquered. It stands opposed to polysyndeton. 

ASYSTOLE:  A weakening or cessation of the contractile power of the heart. 

ASYSTOLISM:  The state or symptoms characteristic of asystole. 

AT:  Primarily, this word expresses the relations of presence, nearness in place or time, or direction toward; as, at the ninth hour; at the house; to aim at a mark. It is less definite than in or on; at the house may be in or near the house. From this original import are derived all the various uses of at. It expresses: -  1. A relation of proximity to, or of presence in or on, something; as, at the door; at your shop; at home; at school; at hand; at sea and on land.  2. The relation of some state or condition; as, at war; at peace; at ease; at your service; at fault; at liberty; at risk; at disadvantage.  3. The relation of some employment or action; occupied with; as, at engraving; at husbandry; at play; at work; at meat (eating); except at puns.  4. The relation of a point or position in a series, or of degree, rate, or value; as, with the thermometer at 80º; goods sold at a cheap price; a country estimated at 10,000 square miles; life is short at the longest.  5. The relations of time, age, or order; as, at ten o'clock; at twenty-one; at once; at first.  6. The relations of source, occasion, reason, consequence, or effect; as, at the sight; at this news; merry at anything; at this declaration; at his command; to demand, require, receive, deserve, endure at your hands.  7. Relation of direction toward an object or end; as, look at it; to point at one; to aim at a mark; to throw, strike, shoot, wink, mock, laugh at any one. At all, At home, At large, At last, At length, At once, etc. See under All, Home, Large, Last (phrase and syn.), Length, Once, etc.  -- At it, busily or actively engaged.  -- At least. See Least and However.  -- At one. See At one, in the Vocabulary.  Syn.  -- In, At. When reference to the interior of any place is made prominent in is used. It is used before the names of countries and cities (esp. large cities); as, we live in America, in New York, in the South. At is commonly employed before names of houses, institutions, villages, and small places; as, Milton was educated at Christ's College; money taken in at the Customhouse; I saw him at the jeweler's; we live at Beachville. At may be used before the name of a city when it is regarded as a mere point of locality. "An English king was crowned at Paris." Macaulay. "Jean Jacques Rousseau was born at Geneva, June, 28, 1712." J. Morley. In regard to time, we say at the hour, on the day, in the year; as, at 9 o'clock, on the morning of July 5th, in the year 1775. 

ATABAL:  A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors. Croly. 

ATACAMITE:  An oxychloride of copper, usually in emerald-green prismatic crystals. 

ATAFTER:  After. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATAGHAN:  See Yataghan. 

ATAKE:  To overtake. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATAMAN:  A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks.  ATAMASCO LILY At`a*mas"co lil"y. [Atamasco is fr. North American Indian.] (Bot.)  See under Lily.  ATARAXIA; ATARAXY At`a*rax"i*a, At"a*rax`y, n. Etym: [NL. ataraxia, Gr.  Perfect peace of mind, or calmness.  ATAUNT; ATAUNTO A*taunt", A*taunt"o, adv. Etym: [F. autant as much (as possible).] (Naut.)  Fully rigged, as a vessel; with all sails set; set on end or set right. 

ATAVIC:  Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism. 

ATAXIC:  Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a) by great irregularity of functions or symptoms, or (b) by a want of coordinating power in movements. Ataxic fever, malignant typhus fever. Pinel. 

ATAZIR:  The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATE:  the preterit of Eat. 

ATE:  The goddess of mischievous folly; also, in later poets, the goddess of vengeance.  -ATE -ate. Etym: [From the L. suffix -atus, the past participle ending of verbs of the 1st conj.]  1. As an ending of participles or participial adjectives it is equivalent to -ed; as, situate or situated; animate or animated.  2. As the ending of a verb, it means to make, to cause, to act, etc.; as, to propitiate (to make propitious); to animate (to give life to).  3. As a noun suffix, it marks the agent; as, curate, delegate. It also sometimes marks the office or dignity; as, tribunate.  4. In chemistry it is used to denote the salts formed from those acids whose names end -ic (excepting binary or halogen acids); as, sulphate from sulphuric acid, nitrate from nitric acid, etc. It is also used in the case of certain basic salts. 

ATECHNIC:  Without technical or artistic knowledge. Difficult to convey to the atechnic reader. Etching & Engr. 

ATELES:  A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and having the thumb wanting or rudimentary. See Spider monkey, and Coaita.  ATELETS SAUCE; SAUCE AUX HATELETS A`te*lets" sauce or  Sauce` aux ha`te*lets". [F. hâtelet skewer.]  A sauce (such as egg and bread crumbs) used for covering bits of meat, small birds, or fish, strung on skewers for frying. 

ATELIER:  A workshop; a studio. 

ATELLAN:  Of or pertaining to Atella, in ancient Italy; as, Atellan plays; farcical; ribald.  -- n.  A farcical drama performed at Atella. 

ATHALAMOUS:  Not furnished with shields or beds for the spores, as the thallus of certain lichens. 

ATHAMAUNT:  Adamant. [Obs.] Written in the table of athamaunt. Chaucer.  ATHANASIA; ATHANASY Ath`a*na"si*a, A*than"a*sy, n. [NL. athanasia, fr. Gr. ;   priv. + death.]  The quality of being deathless; immortality.  Is not a scholiastic athanasy better than none Lowell. 

ATHANASIAN:  Of or pertaining to Athanasius, bishop of Alexandria in the 4th century. Athanasian creed, a formulary, confession, or exposition of faith, formerly supposed to have been drawn up by Athanasius; but this opinion is now rejected, and the composition is ascribed by some to Hilary, bishop of Arles (5th century). It is a summary of what was called the orthodox faith. 

ATHANOR:  A digesting furnace, formerly used by alchemists. It was so constructed as to maintain uniform and durable heat. Chambers. 

ATHECATA:  A division of Hydroidea in which the zooids are naked, or not inclosed in a capsule. See Tubularian. 

ATHEIZE:  To render atheistic or godless. [R.] They endeavored to atheize one another. Berkeley. 

ATHEIZE:  To discourse, argue, or act as an atheist. [R.] -- A"the*i`zer, n. Cudworth. 

ATHELING:  An Anglo-Saxon prince or nobleman; esp., the heir apparent or a prince of the royal family. [Written also Adeling and Ætheling.]  ATHENEUM; ATHENAEUM Ath`e*ne"um, Ath`e*næ"um, n.; pl. E. Atheneums, L. Athenæa. Etym: [L. Athenaemum, Gr. Minerva by the Romans), the tutelary goddess of Athens.]  1 (Gr. Antiq.)  A temple of Athene, at Athens, in which scholars and poets were accustomed to read their works and instruct students.  2. A school founded at Rome by Hadrian.  3. A literary or scientific association or club.  4. A building or an apartment where a library, periodicals, and newspapers are kept for use. 

ATHENIAN:  Of or pertaining to Athens, the metropolis of Greece.  -- n. A native or citizen of Athens. 

ATHEOLOGICAL:  Opposed to theology; atheistic. Bp. Montagu. 

ATHEOLOGY:  Antagonism to theology. Swift. 

ATHERINE:  A small marine fish of the family Atherinidæ, having a silvery stripe along the sides. The European species (Atherina presbyter) is used as food. The American species (Menidia notata) is called silversides and sand smelt. See Silversides. 

ATHERMANCY:  Inability to transmit radiant; impermeability to heat. Tyndall. 

ATHERMANOUS:  Not transmitting heat; -- opposed to diathermanous. 

ATHERMOUS:  Athermanous. 

ATHEROID:  Shaped like an ear of grain. 

ATHEROMATOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or having the nature of, atheroma. Wiseman. 

ATHETIZE:  To set aside or reject as spurious, as by marking with an obelus. 

ATHETOSIS:  A variety of chorea, marked by peculiar tremors of the fingers and toes. 

ATHINK:  To repent; to displease; to disgust. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATHLETE:  One who contended for a prize in the public games of ancient Greece or Rome.  2. Any one trained to contend in exercises requiring great physical agility and strength; one who has great activity and strength; a champion.  3. One fitted for, or skilled in, intellectual contests; as, athletes of debate. 

ATHLETICISM:  The practice of engaging in athletic games; athletism. 

ATHLETICS:  The art of training by athletic exercises; the games and sports of athletes. 

ATHLETISM:  The state or practice of an athlete; the characteristics of an athlete. 

ATHREPSIA:  Profound debility of children due to lack of food and to unhygienic surroundings. --A*threp"tic (#), a. 

ATHWART:  Across the direction or course of; as, a fleet standing athwart our course. Athwart hawse, across the stem of another vessel, whether in contact or at a small distance.  -- Athwart ships, across the ship from side to side, or in that direction; -- opposed to fore and aft. 

ATHWART:  1. Across, especially in an oblique direction; sidewise; obliquely. Sometimes athwart, sometimes he strook him straight. Spenser.  2. Across the course; so as to thwart; perversely. All athwart there came A post from Wales loaden with heavy news. Shak. 

ATIMY:  Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights. Mitford.  -ATION -a"tion. Etym: [L. -ationem. See -tion.]  A suffix forming nouns of action, and often equivalent to the verbal substantive in -ing. It sometimes has the further meanings of state, and that which results from the action. Many of these nouns have verbs in -ate; as, alliterate -ation, narrate -ation; many are derived through the French; as, alteration, visitation; and many are formed on verbs ending in the Greek formative -ize (Fr. -ise); as, civilization, demoralization.  A-TIPTOE A-tip"toe, adv.  On tiptoe; eagerly expecting. We all feel a-tiptoe with hope and confidence. F. Harrison. 

ATLANTA:  A genus of small glassy heteropod mollusks found swimming at the surface in mid ocean. See Heteropod. 

ATLANTES:  Figures or half figures of men, used as columns to support an entablature; -- called also telamones. See Caryatides. Oxf. Gloss. 

ATLANTIDES:  The Pleiades or seven stars, fabled to have been the daughters of Atlas. 

ATLAS:  The first vertebra of the neck, articulating immediately with the skull, thus sustaining the globe of the head, whence the name.  3. A collection of maps in a volume; --  Note: supposed to be so called from a picture of Atlas supporting the world, prefixed to some collections. This name is said to have been first used by Mercator, the celebrated geographer, in the 16th century.  Note:  4. A volume of plates illustrating any subject.  5. A work in which subjects are exhibited in a tabular from or arrangement; as, an historical atlas.  6. A large, square folio, resembling a volume of maps; -- called also atlas folio.  7. A drawing paper of large size. See under Paper, n. Atlas powder, a nitroglycerin blasting compound of pasty consistency and great explosive power. 

ATLAS:  A rich kind of satin manufactured in India. Brande & C.  ATLAS POWDER At"las pow"der.  A blasting powder or dynamite composed of nitroglycerin, wood fiber, sodium nitrate, and magnesium carbonate. 

ATMIATRY:  Treatment of disease by vapors or gases, as by inhalation. 

ATMIDOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the evaporation from water, ice, or snow. Brande & C. 

ATMO:  The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physical measurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under which the barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0º Centigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris. Sir W. Thomson.  ATMOLOGIC; ATMOLOGICAL At`mo*log"ic, At`mo*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to atmology. "Atmological laws of heat." Whewell. 

ATMOLOGIST:  One who is versed in atmology. 

ATMOLOGY:  That branch of science which treats of the laws and phenomena of aqueous vapor. Whewell. 

ATMOLYSIS:  The act or process of separating mingled gases of unequal diffusibility by transmission through porous substances. 

ATMOLYZATION:  Separation by atmolysis. 

ATMOLYZE:  To subject to atmolysis; to separate by atmolysis. 

ATMOLYZER:  An apparatus for effecting atmolysis. 

ATMOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the rate of evaporation from a moist surface; an evaporometer. Huxley. 

ATMOSPHERICALLY:  In relation to the atmosphere. 

ATMOSPHEROLOGY:  The science or a treatise on the atmosphere. 

ATOKOUS:  Producing only asexual individuals, as the eggs of certain annelids. 

ATOLE:  A porridge or gruel of maize meal and water, milk, or the like. [Sp. Amer.] 

ATOLL:  A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef, partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; a lagoon island. 

ATOM:  The smallest particle of matter that can enter into combination; one of the elementary constituents of a molecule.  3. Anything extremely small; a particle; a whit. There was not an atom of water. Sir J. Ross. 

ATOM:  To reduce to atoms. [Obs.] Feltham.  ATOMIC; ATOMICAL A*tom"ic, A*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atomique.]  1. Of or pertaining to atoms.  2. Extremely minute; tiny. Atomic philosophy, or Doctrine of atoms, a system which assuming that atoms are endued with gravity and motion accounted thus for the origin and formation of all things. This philosophy was first broached by Leucippus, was developed by Democritus, and afterward improved by Epicurus, and hence is sometimes denominated the Epicurean philosophy.  -- Atomic theory, or the Doctrine of definite proportions (Chem.), teaches that chemical combinations take place between the supposed ultimate particles or atoms of bodies, in some simple ratio, as of one to one, two to three, or some other, always expressible in whole numbers.  -- Atomic weight (Chem.), the weight of the atom of an element as compared with the weight of the atom of hydrogen, taken as a standard. 

ATOMICALLY:  In an atomic manner; in accordance with the atomic philosophy. 

ATOMICIAN:  An atomist. [R.] 

ATOMICISM:  Atomism. [Obs.] 

ATOMICITY:  Degree of atomic attraction; equivalence; valence; also (a later use) the number of atoms in an elementary molecule. See Valence. 

ATOMISM:  The doctrine of atoms. See Atomic philosophy, under Atomic. 

ATOMIST:  One who holds to the atomic philosophy or theory. Locke. 

ATOMISTIC:  Of or pertaining to atoms; relating to atomism. [R.] It is the object of the mechanical atomistic philosophy to confound synthesis with synartesis. Coleridge. 

ATOMIZATION:  The reduction of fluids into fine spray. 

ATOMIZE:  To reduce to atoms, or to fine spray. The liquids in the form of spray are said to be pulverized, nebulized, or atomized. Dunglison. 

ATOMIZER:  One who, or that which, atomizes; esp., an instrument for reducing a liquid to spray for disinfecting, cooling, or perfuming. 

ATOMOLOGY:  The doctrine of atoms. Cudworth. 

ATOMY:  An atom; a mite; a pigmy. 

ATOMY:  A skeleton. [Ludicrous] Shak. 

ATONABLE:  Admitting an atonement; capable of being atoned for; expiable.  AT ONE At one". Etym: [OE. at on, atone, atoon, attone.]  1. In concord or friendship; in agreement (with each other); as, to be, bring, make, or set, at one, i. e., to be or bring in or to a state of agreement or reconciliation. If gentil men, or othere of hir contree Were wrothe, she wolde bringen hem atoon. Chaucer.  2. Of the same opinion; agreed; as, on these points we are at one.  3. Together. [Obs.] Spenser. He and Aufidius can no more atone Than violentest contrariety. Shak.  2. To stand as an equivalent; to make reparation, compensation, or amends, for an offense or a crime. The murderer fell, and blood atoned for blood. Pope. The ministry not atoning for their former conduct by any wise or popular measure. Junius. 

ATONER:  One who makes atonement. 

ATONES:  Etym: [See At one.] [Obs.] Down he fell atones as a stone. Chaucer. 

ATONIC:  Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonic disease.  2. (Gram.)  Unaccented; as, an atonic syllable.  3. Destitute of tone vocality; surd. Rush. 

ATONIC:  A word that has no accent.  2. An element of speech entirely destitute of vocality, or produced by the breath alone; a nonvocal or surd consonant; a breathing. Rush.  3. (Med.)  A remedy capable of allaying organic excitement or irritation. Dunglison. 

ATONY:  Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ, especially of such as are contractile. 

ATOP:  On or at the top. Milton.  ATRABILARIAN; ATRABILARIOUS At`ra*bi*la"ri*an, At`ra*bi*la"ri*ous, a. Etym: [LL. atrabilarius, fr. L. atra bilis black bile: cf. F. atrabilaire, fr. atrabile.]  Affected with melancholy; atrabilious. Arbuthnot. 

ATRABILARIAN:  A person much given to melancholy; a hypochondriac. I. Disraeli. 

ATRABILIAR:  Melancholy; atrabilious. 

ATRABILIOUS:  Melancholic or hypochondriac; atrabiliary. Dunglision. A hard-faced, atrabilious, earnest-eyed race. Lowell. He was constitutionally atrabilious and scornful. Froude. 

ATRAMENTACEOUS:  Black, like ink; inky; atramental. [Obs.] Derham.  ATRAMENTAL; ATRAMENTOUS At`ra*men"tal, At`ra*men"tous, a.  Of or pertaining to ink; inky; black, like ink; as, atramental galls; atramentous spots. 

ATRAMENTARIOUS:  Like ink; suitable for making ink. Sulphate of iron (copperas, green vitriol) is called atramentarious, as being used in making ink. 

ATREDE:  To surpass in council. [Obs.] Men may the olde atrenne, but hat atrede. Chaucer. 

ATRENNE:  To outrun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATRESIA:  Absence or closure of a natural passage or channel of the body; imperforation. 

ATRIAL:  Of or pertaining to an atrium. 

ATRIUM:  The main part of either auricle of the heart as distinct from the auricular appendix. Also, the whole articular portion of the heart.  3. (Zoöl.)  A cavity in ascidians into which the intestine and generative ducts open, and which also receives the water from the gills. See Ascidioidea. 

ATROCHA:  A kind of chætopod larva in which no circles of cilia are developed. 

ATROPHIC:  Relating to atrophy. 

ATROPHIED:  Affected with atrophy, as a tissue or organ; arrested in development at a very early stage; rudimentary. 

ATROPHY:  A wasting away from want of nourishment; diminution in bulk or slow emaciation of the body or of any part. Milton. 

ATROPHY:  To cause to waste away or become abortive; to starve or weaken. 

ATROPHY:  To waste away; to dwindle. 

ATROPIA:  Same as Atropine. 

ATROPINE:  A poisonous, white, crystallizable alkaloid, extracted from the Atropa belladonna, or deadly nightshade, and the Datura Stramonium, or thorn apple. It is remarkable for its power in dilating the pupil of the eye. Called also daturine. 

ATROPISM:  A condition of the system produced by long use of belladonna. 

ATROPOUS:  Not inverted; orthotropous. 

ATROUS:  Coal-black; very black. 

ATRYPA:  A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurian limestones. 

ATTABAL:  See Atabal. 

ATTACCA:  Attack at once; -- a direction at the end of a movement to show that the next is to follow immediately, without any pause. 

ATTACH:  An attachment. [Obs.] Pope. 

ATTACHABLE:  Capable of being attached; esp., liable to be taken by writ or precept. 

ATTACHE:  One attached to another person or thing, as a part of a suite or staff. Specifically: One attached to an embassy. 

ATTACK:  To make an onset or attack. 

ATTACKABLE:  Capable of being attacked. 

ATTACKER:  One who attacks.  ATTAGAS; ATTAGEN At"ta*gas, At"ta*gen, n. Etym: [L. attagen a kind of bird, Gr. (Zoöl.)  A species of sand grouse (Syrrghaptes Pallasii) found in Asia and rarely in southern Europe. 

ATTAGHAN:  See Yataghan. 

ATTAIN:  Attainment. [Obs.] 

ATTAINABILITY:  The quality of being attainable; attainbleness. 

ATTAINABLENESS:  The quality of being attainable; attainability. 

ATTAINT:  To find guilty; to convict; -- said esp. of a jury on trial for giving a false verdict. [Obs.] Upon sufficient proof attainted of some open act by men of his own condition. Blackstone.  3. (Law)  To subject (a person) to the legal condition formerly resulting from a sentence of death or outlawry, pronounced in respect of treason or felony; to affect by attainder. No person shall be attainted of high treason where corruption of blood is incurred, but by the oath of two witnesses. Stat. 7 & 8 Wm. III.  4. To accuse; to charge with a crime or a dishonorable act. [Archaic]  5. To affect or infect, as with physical or mental disease or with moral contagion; to taint or corrupt. My tender youth was never yet attaint With any passion of inflaming love. Shak.  6. To stain; to obscure; to sully; to disgrace; to cloud with infamy. For so exceeding shone his glistring ray, That Phattaint. Spenser. Lest she with blame her honor should attaint. Spenser. 

ATTAINT:  Attainted; corrupted. [Obs.] Shak. 

ATTAINT:  A blow or wound on the leg of a horse, made by overreaching. White.  3. (Law)  A writ which lies after judgment, to inquire whether a jury has given a false verdict in any court of record; also, the convicting of the jury so tried. Bouvier.  4. A stain or taint; disgrace. See Taint. Shak.  5. An infecting influence. [R.] Shak. 

ATTAINTMENT:  Attainder; attainture; conviction. 

ATTAINTURE:  Attainder; disgrace. 

ATTAL:  Same as Attle. 

ATTAMINATE:  To corrupt; to defile; to contaminate. [Obs.] Blount. 

ATTAR:  A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant essential oil obtained from the petals of roses. [Also written otto and ottar.] 

ATTASK:  To take to task; to blame. Shak. 

ATTASTE:  To taste or cause to taste. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATTE:  At the. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATTEMPERAMENT:  A tempering, or mixing in due proportion. 

ATTEMPERANCE:  Temperance; attemperament. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATTEMPERATE:  Tempered; proportioned; properly adapted. Hope must be . . . attemperate to the promise. Hammond. 

ATTEMPERATE:  To attemper. [Archaic] 

ATTEMPERATION:  The act of attempering or regulating. [Archaic] Bacon. 

ATTEMPERLY:  Temperately. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATTEMPERMENT:  Attemperament. 

ATTEMPT:  To make an attempt; -- with upon. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ATTEMPT:  A essay, trial, or endeavor; an undertaking; an attack, or an effort to gain a point; esp. an unsuccessful, as contrasted with a successful, effort. By his blindness maimed for high attempts. Milton. Attempt to commit a crime (Law), such an intentional preparatory act as will apparently result, if not extrinsically hindered, in a crime which it was designed to effect. Wharton.  Syn.  -- Attempt, Endeavor, Effort, Exertion, Trial. These words agree in the idea of calling forth our powers into action. Trial is the generic term; it denotes a putting forth of one's powers with a view to determine what they can accomplish; as, to make trial of one's strength. An attempt is always directed to some definite and specific object; as, "The attempt, and not the deed, confounds us." Shak. An endeavor is a continued attempt; as, "His high endeavor and his glad success." Cowper. Effort is a specific putting forth of strength in order to carry out an attempt. Exertion is the putting forth or active exercise of any faculty or power. "It admits of all degrees of effort and even natural action without effort." C. J. Smith. See Try. 

ATTEMPTABLE:  Capable of being attempted, tried, or attacked. Shak. 

ATTEMPTIVE:  Disposed to attempt; adventurous. [Obs.] Daniel. 

ATTENDANCY:  The quality of attending or accompanying; attendance; an attendant. [Obs.] 

ATTENDANT:  Depending on, or owing duty or service to; as, the widow attendant to the heir. Cowell. Attendant keys (Mus.), the keys or scales most nearly related to, or having most in common with, the principal key; those, namely, of its fifth above, or dominant, its fifth below (fourth above), or subdominant, and its relative minor or major. 

ATTENDANT:  One who owes duty or service to, or depends on, another. Cowell. 

ATTENDEMENT:  Intent. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ATTENDER:  One who, or that which, attends. 

ATTENDMENT:  An attendant circumstance. [Obs.] The uncomfortable attendments of hell. Sir T. Browne. 

ATTENT:  Attentive; heedful. [Archaic] Let thine ears be attent unto the prayer. 2 Chron. vi. 40. 

ATTENT:  Attention; heed. [Obs.] Spenser.  ATTENTATE; ATTENTAT At*ten"tate, At*ten"tat, n. Etym: [L. attentatum, pl. attentata, fr. attentare to attempt: cf. F. attentat criminal attempt. See Attempt.]  1. An attempt; an assault. [Obs.] Bacon.  2. (Law) (a) A proceeding in a court of judicature, after an inhibition is decreed. (b) Any step wrongly innovated or attempted in a suit by an inferior judge. 

ATTENTLY:  Attentively. [Obs.] Barrow. 

ATTENUANT:  Making thin, as fluids; diluting; rendering less dense and viscid; diluent.  -- n. (Med.)  A medicine that thins or dilutes the fluids; a diluent. 

ATTENUATE:  To become thin, slender, or fine; to grow less; to lessen. The attention attenuates as its sphere contracts. Coleridge.  ATTENUATE; ATTENUATED At*ten"u*ate, At*ten"u*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. attenuatus, p. p.]  1. Made thin or slender.  2. Made thin or less viscid; rarefied. Bacon. 

ATTER:  Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore. [Obs.] Holland. 

ATTERRATE:  To fill up with alluvial earth. [Obs.] Ray. 

ATTERRATION:  The act of filling up with earth, or of forming land with alluvial earth. [Obs.] 

ATTEST:  Witness; testimony; attestation. [R.] The attest of eyes and ears. Shak. 

ATTESTATION:  The act of attesting; testimony; witness; a solemn or official declaration, verbal or written, in support of a fact; evidence. The truth appears from the attestation of witnesses, or of the proper officer. The subscription of a name to a writing as a witness, is an attestation. 

ATTESTATIVE:  Of the nature of attestation.  ATTESTER; ATTESTOR At*test"er, At*test"or, n.  One who attests. 

ATTESTIVE:  Attesting; furnishing evidence. 

ATTIC:  Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, its principal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic of the Athenians; classical; refined. Attic base (Arch.), a peculiar form of molded base for a column or pilaster, described by Vitruvius, applied under the Roman Empire to the Ionic and Corinthian and "Roman Doric" orders, and imitated by the architects of the Renaissance.  -- Attic faith, inviolable faith.  -- Attic purity, special purity of language.  -- Attic salt, Attic wit, a poignant, delicate wit, peculiar to the Athenians.  -- Attic story. See Attic, n.  -- Attic style, a style pure and elegant. 

ATTICAL:  Attic. [Obs.] Hammond. 

ATTICIZE:  To conform or make conformable to the language, customs, etc., of Attica. 

ATTIGUOUS:  Touching; bordering; contiguous. [Obs.] -- At*tig"u*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] 

ATTINGE:  To touch lightly. [Obs.] Coles. 

ATTIRE:  To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant or splendid garments. Finely attired in a robe of white. Shak. With the linen miter shall he be attired. Lev. xvi. 4. 

ATTIRE:  The internal parts of a flower, included within the calyx and the corolla. [Obs.] Johnson. 

ATTIRED:  Provided with antlers, as a stag. 

ATTIREMENT:  Attire; adornment. 

ATTIRER:  One who attires. 

ATTITUDE:  The posture, action, or disposition of a figure or a statue.  2. The posture or position of a person or an animal, or the manner in which the parts of his body are disposed; position assumed or studied to serve a purpose; as, a threatening attitude; an attitude of entreaty.  3. Fig.: Position as indicating action, feeling, or mood; as, in times of trouble let a nation preserve a firm attitude; one's mental attitude in respect to religion. The attitude of the country was rapidly changing. J. R. Green. To strike an attitude, to take an attitude for mere effect.  Syn.  -- Attitude, Posture. Both of these words describe the visible disposition of the limbs. Posture relates to their position merely; attitude refers to their fitness for some specific object. The object of an attitude is to set forth exhibit some internal feeling; as, attitude of wonder, of admiration, of grief, etc. It is, therefore, essentially and designedly expressive. Its object is the same with that of gesture; viz., to hold forth and represent. Posture has no such design. If we speak of posture in prayer, or the posture of devotion, it is only the natural disposition of the limbs, without any intention to show forth or exhibit. 'T is business of a painter in his choice of attitudes (posituræ) to foresee the effect and harmony of the lights and shadows. Dryden. Never to keep the body in the same posture half an hour at a time. Bacon. 

ATTITUDINAL:  Relating to attitude. 

ATTITUDINARIAN:  One who attitudinizes; a posture maker. 

ATTITUDINARIANISM:  A practicing of attitudes; posture making. 

ATTITUDINIZE:  To assume affected attitudes; to strike an attitude; to pose. Maria, who is the most picturesque figure, was put to attitudinize at the harp. Hannah More. 

ATTITUDINIZER:  One who practices attitudes. 

ATTLE:  Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing little or no ore. Weale. 

ATTOLLENT:  Lifting up; raising; as, an attollent muscle. Derham. 

ATTONCE:  At once; together. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ATTONE:  See At one. [Obs.] 

ATTORN:  To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord to another. This is the act of feudatories, vassals, or tenants, upon the alienation of the estate. Blackstone.  2. (Modern Law)  To agree to become tenant to one to whom reversion has been granted. 

ATTORNEY:  To perform by proxy; to employ as a proxy. [Obs.] Shak.  ATTORNEY-GENERAL At*tor"ney-gen"er*al, n.; (pl. Attorney-generals or Attorneys- general). (Law)  The chief law officer of the state, empowered to act in all litigation in which the law-executing power is a party, and to advise this supreme executive whenever required. Wharton. 

ATTORNEYISM:  The practice or peculiar cleverness of attorneys. 

ATTORNEYSHIP:  The office or profession of an attorney; agency for another. Shak. 

ATTORNMENT:  The act of a feudatory, vassal, or tenant, by which he consents, upon the alienation of an estate, to receive a new lord or superior, and transfers to him his homage and service; the agreement of a tenant to acknowledge the purchaser of the estate as his landlord. Burrill. Blackstone. 

ATTRACT:  Attraction. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

ATTRACTABILITY:  The quality or fact of being attractable. Sir W. Jones. 

ATTRACTABLE:  Capable of being attracted; subject to attraction.  -- At*tract"a*ble*ness, n. 

ATTRACTER:  One who, or that which, attracts. 

ATTRACTILE:  Having power to attract. 

ATTRACTING:  That attracts.  -- At*tract"ing*ly, adv. 

ATTRACTION:  An invisible power in a body by which it draws anything to itself; the power in nature acting mutually between bodies or ultimate particles, tending to draw them together, or to produce their cohesion or combination, and conversely resisting separation.  Note: Attraction is exerted at both sensible and insensible distances, and is variously denominated according to its qualities or phenomena. Under attraction at sensible distances, there are, --(1.) Attraction of gravitation, which acts at all distances throughout the universe, with a force proportional directly to the product of the masses of the bodies and inversely to the square of their distances apart. (2.) Magnetic, diamagnetic, and electrical attraction, each of which is limited in its sensible range and is polar in its action, a property dependent on the quality or condition of matter, and not on its quantity. Under attraction at insensible distances, there are, -- (1.) Adhesive attraction, attraction between surfaces of sensible extent, or by the medium of an intervening substance. (2.) Cohesive attraction, attraction between ultimate particles, whether like or unlike, and causing simply an aggregation or a union of those particles, as in the absorption of gases by charcoal, or of oxygen by spongy platinum, or the process of solidification or crystallization. The power in adhesive attraction is strictly the same as that of cohesion. (3.) Capillary attraction, attraction causing a liquid to rise, in capillary tubes or interstices, above its level outside, as in very small glass tubes, or a sponge, or any porous substance, when one end is inserted in the liquid. It is a special case of cohesive attraction. (4.) Chemical attraction, or affinity, that peculiar force which causes elementary atoms, or groups of atoms, to unite to form molecules.  2. The act or property of attracting; the effect of the power or operation of attraction. Newton.  3. The power or act of alluring, drawing to, inviting, or engaging; an attractive quality; as, the attraction of beauty or eloquence.  4. That which attracts; an attractive object or feature.  Syn.  -- Allurement; enticement; charm.  ATTRACTION SPHERE At*trac"tion sphere.  1. (Zoöl.)  (a) The central mass of the aster in mitotic cell division; centrosphere.  (b) Less often, the mass of archoplasm left by the aster in the resting cell.  2.  (Bot.) A small body situated on or near the nucleus in the cells of some of the lower plants, consisting of two centrospheres containing centrosomes. It exercises an important function in mitosis. 

ATTRACTIVE:  That which attracts or draws; an attraction; an allurement. Speaks nothing but attractives and invitation. South. 

ATTRACTIVITY:  The quality or degree of attractive power. 

ATTRACTOR:  One who, or that which, attracts. Sir T. Browne 

ATTRAHENT:  Attracting; drawing; attractive. 

ATTRAHENT:  A substance which, by irritating the surface, excites action in the part to which it is applied, as a blister, an epispastic, a sinapism. 

ATTRAP:  To entrap; to insnare. [Obs.] Grafton. 

ATTRAP:  To adorn with trapping; to array. [Obs.] Shall your horse be attrapped . . . more richly Holland. 

ATTRECTATION:  Frequent handling or touching. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

ATTRIBUTABLE:  Capable of being attributed; ascribable; imputable. Errors . . . attributable to carelessness. J. D. Hooker. 

ATTRIBUTE:  To ascribe; to consider (something) as due or appropriate (to); to refer, as an effect to a cause; to impute; to assign; to consider as belonging (to). We attribute nothing to God that hath any repugnancy or contradiction in it. Abp. Tillotson. The merit of service is seldom attributed to the true and exact performer. Shak.  Syn.  -- See Ascribe. 

ATTRIBUTE:  A conventional symbol of office, character, or identity, added to any particular figure; as, a club is the attribute of Hercules.  4. (Gram.)  Quality, etc., denoted by an attributive; an attributive adjunct or adjective. 

ATTRIBUTIVE:  Attributing; pertaining to, expressing, or assigning an attribute; of the nature of an attribute. 

ATTRIBUTIVE:  A word that denotes an attribute; esp. a modifying word joined to a noun; an adjective or adjective phrase. 

ATTRIBUTIVELY:  In an attributive manner. 

ATTRITE:  Repentant from fear of punishment; having attrition of grief for sin; -- opposed to contrite. 

ATTRITION:  Grief for sin arising only from fear of punishment or feelings of shame. See Contrition. Wallis. 

ATTRITUS:  Matter pulverized by attrition. 

ATTRY:  Poisonous; malignant; malicious. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ATWAIN:  In twain; asunder. [Obs. or Poetic] "Cuts atwain the knots." Tennyson. 

ATWEEN:  Between. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson. 

ATWIRL:  Twisted; distorted; awry. [R.] Halliwell. 

ATWITE:  To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid. [Obs.] 

ATWIXT:  Betwixt. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ATWO:  In two; in twain; asunder. [Obs.] Chaucer.  ATYPIC; ATYPICAL A*typ"ic, A*typ"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + typic, typical.]  That has no type; devoid of typical character; irregular; unlike the type. 

AUBADE:  An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from an evening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive of morning. Grove. The crowing cock . . . Sang his aubade with lusty voice and clear. Longfellow. 

AUBAINE:  Succession to the goods of a stranger not naturalized. Littré. Droit d'aubaine (, the right, formerly possessed by the king of France, to all the personal property of which an alien died possessed. It was abolished in 1819. Bouvier. 

AUBE:  An alb. [Obs.] Fuller. 

AUBERGE:  An inn. Beau. & Fl. 

AUBIN:  A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; -- commonly called a Canterbury gallop. 

AUCHENIUM:  The part of the neck nearest the back. 

AUCTARY:  That which is superadded; augmentation. [Obs.] Baxter. 

AUCTION:  To sell by auction. 

AUCTIONARY:  Of or pertaining to an auction or an auctioneer. [R.] With auctionary hammer in thy hand. Dryden.  AUCTION BRIDGE Auc"tion bridge.  A variety of the game of bridge in which the players, beginning with the dealer, bid for the privilege of naming the trump and playing with the dummy for that deal, there being heavy penalties for a player's failure to make good his bid. The score value of each trick more than six taken by the successful bidder is as follows: when the trump is spades, 2; clubs, 6; diamonds, 7; hearts, 8; royal spades (lilies), 9; and when the deal is played with no trump, 10. 

AUCTIONEER:  A person who sells by auction; a person whose business it is to dispose of goods or lands by public sale to the highest or best bidder. 

AUCTIONEER:  To sell by auction; to auction. Estates . . . advertised and auctioneered away. Cowper.  AUCTION PITCH Auction pitch.  A game of cards in which the players bid for the privilege of determining or "pitching" the trump suit.  R. F. Foster. 

AUCUPATION:  Birdcatching; fowling. [Obs.] Blount. 

AUDACIOUSLY:  In an audacious manner; with excess of boldness; impudently. 

AUDACIOUSNESS:  The quality of being audacious; impudence; audacity. 

AUDIBILITY:  The quality of being audible; power of being heard; audible capacity. 

AUDIBLE:  Capable of being heard; loud enough to be heard; actually heard; as, an audible voice or whisper. 

AUDIBLE:  That which may be heard. [Obs.] Visibles are swiftlier carried to the sense than audibles. Bacon. 

AUDIBLENESS:  The quality of being audible. 

AUDIBLY:  So as to be heard. 

AUDIENT:  Listening; paying attention; as, audient souls. Mrs. Browning. 

AUDIENT:  A hearer; especially a catechumen in the early church. [Obs.] Shelton. 

AUDILE:  One whose thoughts take the form of mental sounds or of internal discourse rather than of visual or motor images. 

AUDIOMETER:  An instrument by which the power of hearing can be gauged and recorded on a scale. 

AUDIPHONE:  An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to the auditory nerve and enables the deaf to hear more or less distinctly; a dentiphone. 

AUDIT:  To examine and adjust, as an account or accounts; as, to audit the accounts of a treasure, or of parties who have a suit depending in court. 

AUDIT:  To settle or adjust an account. Let Hocus audit; he knows how the money was disbursed. Arbuthnot.  AUDITA QUERELA Au*di"ta que*re"la. Etym: [L., the complaint having been heard.] (Law)  A writ which lies for a party against whom judgment is recovered, but to whom good matter of discharge has subsequently accrued which could not have been availed of to prevent such judgment. Wharton. 

AUDITION:  The act of hearing or listening; hearing. Audition may be active or passive; hence the difference between listening and simple hearing. Dunglison. 

AUDITIVE:  Of or pertaining to hearing; auditory. [R.] Cotgrave. 

AUDITORIAL:  Auditory. [R.] 

AUDITORIUM:  The part of a church, theater, or other public building, assigned to the audience.  Note: In ancient churches the auditorium was the nave, where hearers stood to be instructed; in monasteries it was an apartment for the reception of strangers. 

AUDITORSHIP:  The office or function of auditor. 

AUDITORY:  Of or pertaining to hearing, or to the sense or organs of hearing; as, the auditory nerve. See Ear. Auditory canal (Anat.), the tube from the auditory meatus or opening of the ear to the tympanic membrane. 

AUDITRESS:  A female hearer. Milton. 

AUDITUAL:  Auditory. [R.] Coleridge. 

AUF:  A changeling or elf child, -- that is, one left by fairies; a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an oaf. [Obs.] Drayton.  AU FAIT Au` fait". Etym: [F. Lit., to the deed, act, or point. Fait is fr. L. factum. See Fact.]  Expert; skillful; well instructed. 

AUFKLARUNG:  A philosophic movement of the 18th century characterized by a lively questioning of authority, keen interest in matters of politics and general culture, and an emphasis on empirical method in science. It received its impetus from the unsystematic but vigorous skepticism of Pierre Bayle, the physical doctrines of Newton, and the epistemological theories of Locke, in the preceding century. Its chief center was in France, where it gave rise to the skepticism of Voltaire , the naturalism of Rousseau, the sensationalism of Condillac, and the publication of the "Encyclopedia" by D'Alembert and Diderot. In Germany, Lessing, Mendelssohn, and Herder were representative thinkers, while the political doctrines of the leaders of the American Revolution and the speculations of Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Paine represented the movement in America.  AU FOND Au` fond". [F., lit., at the bottom.]  At bottom; fundamentally; essentially. 

AUGEAN:  Of or pertaining to Augeus, king of Elis, whose stable contained 3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years. Hercules cleansed it in a single day.  2. Hence: Exceedingly filthy or corrupt. Augean stable (Fig.), an accumulation of corruption or filth almost beyond the power of man to remedy. 

AUGET:  A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery, or place where the slow match is applied. Knight.  AUGHT; AUCHT Aught, Aucht, n. Etym: [AS. , fr. agan to own, p. p. ahte.]  Property; possession. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

AUGHT:  Anything; any part. [Also written ought.] There failed not aught of any good thing which the Lord has spoken. Josh. xxi. 45 But go, my son, and see if aught be wanting. Addison. 

AUGHT:  At all; in any degree. Chaucer. 

AUGITE:  A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color, occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead of the general term pyroxene. 

AUGITIC:  Pertaining to, or like, augite; containing augite as a principal constituent; as, augitic rocks. 

AUGMENT:  To add an augment to. 

AUGMENT:  To increase; to grow larger, stronger, or more intense; as, a stream augments by rain. 

AUGMENT:  A vowel prefixed, or a lengthening of the initial vowel, to mark past time, as in Greek and Sanskrit verbs.  Note: In Greek, the syllabic augment is a prefixed temporal augment is an increase of the quantity (time) of an initial vowel, as by changing 

AUGMENTABLE:  Capable of augmentation. Walsh. 

AUGMENTATION:  A additional charge to a coat of arms, given as a mark of honor. Cussans.  5. (Med.)  The stage of a disease in which the symptoms go on increasing. Dunglison.  6. (Mus.)  In counterpoint and fugue, a repetition of the subject in tones of twice the original length. Augmentation court (Eng. Hist.), a court erected by Stat. 27 Hen. VIII., to augment to revenues of the crown by the suppression of monasteries. It was long ago dissolved. Encyc. Brit.  Syn.  -- Increase; enlargement; growth; extension; accession; addition. 

AUGMENTATIVE:  Having the quality or power of augmenting; expressing augmentation.  -- Aug*ment"a*tive*ly, adv. 

AUGMENTATIVE:  A word which expresses with augmented force the idea or the properties of the term from which it is derived; as, dullard, one very dull. Opposed to diminutive. Gibbs. 

AUGMENTER:  One who, or that which, augments or increases anything.  AU GRATIN Au` gra`tin". [F.] (Cookery)  With a crust made by browning in the oven; as, spaghetti may be served au gratin. 

AUGRIM:  See Algorism. [Obs.] Chaucer. Augrim stones, pebbles formerly used in numeration.  -- Noumbres of Augrim, Arabic numerals. Chaucer. 

AUGUR:  An official diviner who foretold events by the singing, chattering, flight, and feeding of birds, or by signs or omens derived from celestial phenomena, certain appearances of quadrupeds, or unusual occurrences.  2. One who foretells events by omens; a soothsayer; a diviner; a prophet. Augur of ill, whose tongue was never found Without a priestly curse or boding sound. Dryden. 

AUGUR:  To predict or foretell, as from signs or omens; to betoken; to presage; to infer. It seems to augur genius. Sir W. Scott. I augur everything from the approbation the proposal has met with. J. F. W. Herschel.  Syn.  -- To predict; forebode; betoken; portend; presage; prognosticate; prophesy; forewarn. 

AUGURAL:  Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous; significant; as, an augural staff; augural books. "Portents augural." Cowper. 

AUGURATE:  To make or take auguries; to augur; to predict. [Obs.] C. Middleton. 

AUGURATE:  The office of an augur. Merivale. 

AUGURATION:  The practice of augury. 

AUGURER:  An augur. [Obs.] Shak. 

AUGURIAL:  Relating to augurs or to augury. Sir T. Browne. 

AUGURIST:  An augur. [R.] 

AUGURIZE:  To augur. [Obs.] Blount. 

AUGURIZE:  To augur. [Obs.]  Blount. 

AUGUROUS:  Full of augury; foreboding. [Obs.] "Augurous hearts." Chapman. 

AUGURSHIP:  The office, or period of office, of an augur. Bacon. 

AUGUST:  Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having exalted birth, character, state, or authority. "Forms august." Pope. "August in visage." Dryden. "To shed that august blood." Macaulay. So beautiful and so august a spectacle. Burke. To mingle with a body so august. Byron.  Syn.  -- Grand; magnificent; majestic; solemn; awful; noble; stately; dignified; imposing. 

AUGUST:  The eighth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.  Note: The old Roman name was Sextilis, the sixth month from March, the month in which the primitive Romans, as well as Jews, began the year. The name was changed to August in honor of Augustus Cæsar, the first emperor of Rome, on account of his victories, and his entering on his first consulate in that month. 

AUGUSTAN:  A member of one of the religious orders called after St. Augustine; an Austin friar. 

AUGUSTINIAN:  Of or pertaining to St. Augustine, bishop of Hippo in Northern Africa (b. 354 -- d. 430), or to his doctrines. Augustinian canons, an order of monks once popular in England and Ireland; -- called also regular canons of St. Austin, and black canons.  -- Augustinian hermits or Austin friars, an order of friars established in 1265 by Pope Alexander IV. It was introduced into the United States from Ireland in 1790.  -- Augustinian nuns, an order of nuns following the rule of St. Augustine.  -- Augustinian rule, a rule for religious communities based upon the 109th letter of St. Augustine, and adopted by the Augustinian orders. 

AUGUSTINIAN:  One of a class of divines, who, following St. Augustine, maintain that grace by its nature is effectual absolutely and creatively, not relatively and conditionally.  AUGUSTINIANISM; AUGUSTINISM Au`gus*tin"i*an*ism, Au*gus"tin*ism, n.  The doctrines held by Augustine or by the Augustinians. 

AUGUSTLY:  In an august manner. 

AUGUSTNESS:  The quality of being august; dignity of mien; grandeur; magnificence. 

AUK:  A name given to various species of arctic sea birds of the family Alcidæ. The great auk, now extinct, is Alca (or Plautus) impennis. The razor-billed auk is A. torda. See Puffin, Guillemot, and Murre. 

AUKWARD:  See Awkward. [Obs.] 

AULARIAN:  Relating to a hall. 

AULARIAN:  At Oxford, England, a member of a hall, distinguished from a collegian. Chalmers. 

AULD:  Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky), i. e., Edinburgh. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]  AULD LANG SYNE Auld` lang syne".  A Scottish phrase used in recalling recollections of times long since past. "The days of auld lang syne."  AULD LICHT; AULD LIGHT Auld licht, Auld light . (Eccl. Hist.)  (a) A member of the conservative party in the Church of Scotland in the latter part of the 18th century.  (b) Same as Burgher, n., 2. 

AULETIC:  Of or pertaining to a pipe (flute) or piper. [R.] Ash. 

AULIC:  Pertaining to a royal court. Ecclesiastical wealth and aulic dignities. Landor. Aulic council (Hist.), a supreme court of the old German empire; properly the supreme court of the emperor. It ceased at the death of each emperor, and was renewed by his successor. It became extinct when the German empire was dissolved, in 1806. The term is now applied to a council of the war department of the Austrian empire, and the members of different provincial chanceries of that empire are called aulic councilors. P. Cyc. 

AULIC:  The ceremony observed in conferring the degree of doctor of divinity in some European universities. It begins by a harangue of the chancellor addressed to the young doctor, who then receives the cap, and presides at the disputation (also called the aulic). 

AULN:  An ell. [Obs.] See Aune.  AULNAGE; AULNAGER Aul"nage, Aul"na*ger, n.  See Alnage and Alnager. 

AUM:  Same as Aam. 

AUMAIL:  To figure or variegate. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AUMBRY:  Same as Ambry. 

AUMERY:  A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if a place for alms. 

AUNCEL:  A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerly used in England. Halliwell. 

AUNCETRY:  Ancestry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AUNE:  A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (at Paris, 0.95 of an English ell); -- now superseded by the meter. 

AUNTER:  Adventure; hap. [Obs.] In aunters, perchance.  AUNTER; AUNTRE Aun"ter, Aun"tre, v. t. Etym: [See Adventure.]  To venture; to dare. [Obs.] Chaucer.  AUNTIE; AUNTY Aunt"ie, Aunt"y, n.  A familiar name for an aunt. In the southern United States a familiar term applied to aged negro women. 

AUNTROUS:  Adventurous. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AURA:  The peculiar sensation, as of a light vapor, or cold air, rising from the trunk or limbs towards the head, a premonitory symptom of epilepsy or hysterics. Electric ~, a supposed electric fluid, emanating from an electrified body, and forming a mass surrounding it, called the electric atmosphere. See Atmosphere, 2. 

AURAL:  Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura. 

AURAL:  Of or pertaining to the ear; as, aural medicine and surgery. 

AURANTIACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the Aurantiaceæ, an order of plants (formerly considered natural), of which the orange is the type. 

AURATE:  A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate or potassium. 

AURATED:  Combined with auric acid. 

AURATED:  Having ears. See Aurited. 

AUREATE:  Golden; gilded. Skelton. 

AURELIAN:  Of or pertaining to the aurelia. 

AURELIAN:  An amateur collector and breeder of insects, esp. of butterflies and moths; a lepidopterist.  AUREOLA; AUREOLE Au*re"o*la, Au"re*ole, n. Etym: [F. auréole, fr. L. aureola, (fem adj.) of gold (sc. corona crown), dim. of aureus. See Aureate, Oriole.]  1. (R. C. Theol.)  A celestial crown or accidental glory added to the bliss of heaven, as a reward to those (as virgins, martyrs, preachers, etc.) who have overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil.  2. The circle of rays, or halo of light, with which painters surround the figure and represent the glory of Christ, saints, and others held in special reverence.  Note: Limited to the head, it is strictly termed a nimbus; when it envelops the whole body, an aureola. Fairholt.  3. A halo, actual or figurative. The glorious aureole of light seen around the sun during total eclipses. Proctor. The aureole of young womanhood. O. W. Holmes.  4. (Anat.)  See Areola, 2.  AU REVOIR Au` re*voir". [F., lit., to the seeing again.]  Good-by until we meet again. 

AURIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those compounds of gold in which this element has its higher valence; as, auric oxide; auric chloride. 

AURICHALCEOUS:  Brass-colored. 

AURICHALCITE:  A hydrous carbonate of copper and zinc, found in pale green or blue crystalline aggregations. It yields a kind of brass on reduction. 

AURICLE:  An angular or ear-shaped lobe.  3. An instrument applied to the ears to give aid in hearing; a kind of ear trumpet. Mansfield. 

AURICLED:  Having ear-shaped appendages or lobes; auriculate; as, auricled leaves. 

AURICULAR:  Pertaining to the auricles of the heart. Auricular finger, the little finger; so called because it can be readily introduced into the ear passage. 

AURICULARIA:  A kind of holothurian larva, with soft, blunt appendages. See Illustration in Appendix. 

AURICULARLY:  In an auricular manner. 

AURICULARS:  A circle of feathers surrounding the opening of the ear of birds.  AURICULATE; AURICULATED Au*ric"u*late, Au*ric"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Auricle.] (Biol.)  Having ears or appendages like ears; eared. Esp.: (a) (Bot.) Having lobes or appendages like the ear; shaped like the ear; auricled. (b) (Zoöl.) Having an angular projection on one or both sides, as in certain bivalve shells, the foot of some gastropods, etc. Auriculate leaf, one having small appended leaves or lobes on each side of its petiole or base. 

AURIFEROUS:  Gold-bearing; containing or producing gold. Whence many a bursting stream auriferous plays. Thomson. ~= pyrites, iron pyrites (iron disulphide), containing some gold disseminated through it. 

AURIFLAMME:  See Oriflamme. 

AURIFORM:  Having the form of the human ear; ear-shaped. 

AURIGA:  The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northern hemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini. It contains the bright star Capella. 

AURIGAL:  Of or pertaining to a chariot. [R.] 

AURIGATION:  The act of driving a chariot or a carriage. [R.] De Quincey. 

AURIGRAPHY:  The art of writing with or in gold. 

AURILAVE:  An instrument for cleansing the ear, consisting of a small piece of sponge on an ivory or bone handle. 

AURIN:  A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, in commerce, yellow coralin. 

AURIPHRYGIATE:  Embroidered or decorated with gold. [R.] Southey. 

AURIPIGMENT:  See Orpiment. [Obs.] 

AURISCALP:  An earpick. 

AURISCOPE:  An instrument for examining the condition of the ear. 

AURISCOPY:  Examination of the ear by the aid of the auriscope. 

AURIST:  One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear. 

AURITED:  Having lobes like the ear; auriculate. 

AURIVOROUS:  Gold-devouring. [R.] H. Walpole. 

AUROCEPHALOUS:  Having a gold-colored head. 

AUROCHLORIDE:  The trichloride of gold combination with the chloride of another metal, forming a double chloride; -- called also chloraurate. 

AUROCHS:  The European bison (Bison bonasus, or Europæus), once widely distributed, but now nearly extinct, except where protected in the Lithuanian forests, and perhaps in the Caucasus. It is distinct from the Urus of Cæsar, with which it has often been confused. 

AUROCYANIDE:  A double cyanide of gold and some other metal or radical; -- called also cyanaurate. 

AURORA:  The Roman personification of the dawn of day; the goddess of the morning. The poets represented her a rising out of the ocean, in a chariot, with rosy fingers dropping gentle dew.  4. (Bot.)  A species of crowfoot. Johnson.  5. The aurora borealis or aurora australis (northern or southern lights). Aurora borealis (, i. e., northern daybreak; popularly called northern lights. A luminous meteoric phenomenon, visible only at night, and supposed to be of electrical origin. This species of light usually appears in streams, ascending toward the zenith from a dusky line or bank, a few degrees above the northern horizon; when reaching south beyond the zenith, it forms what is called the corona, about a spot in the heavens toward which the dipping needle points. Occasionally the aurora appears as an arch of light across the heavens from east to west. Sometimes it assumes a wavy appearance, and the streams of light are then called merry dancers. They assume a variety of colors, from a pale red or yellow to a deep red or blood color. The Aurora australis (is a corresponding phenomenon in the southern hemisphere, the streams of light ascending in the same manner from near the southern horizon. 

AURORAL:  Belonging to, or resembling, the aurora (the dawn or the northern lights); rosy. Her cheeks suffused with an auroral blush. Longfellow. 

AUROUS:  Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those compounds of gold in which this element has its lower valence; as, aurous oxide. 

AURUM:  Gold. Aurum fulminans (See Fulminate.  -- Aurum mosaicum (See Mosaic. 

AUSCULT:  To auscultate. 

AUSCULTATE:  To practice auscultation; to examine by auscultation. 

AUSCULTATION:  An examination by listening either directly with the ear (immediate auscultation) applied to parts of the body, as the abdomen; or with the stethoscope (mediate ~), in order to distinguish sounds recognized as a sign of health or of disease. 

AUSCULTATOR:  One who practices auscultation. 

AUSCULTATORY:  Of or pertaining to auscultation. Dunglison. 

AUSONIAN:  Italian. Milton. 

AUSPICATE:  Auspicious. [Obs.] Holland. 

AUSPICIAL:  Of or pertaining to auspices; auspicious. [R.] 

AUSTER:  The south wind. Pope. 

AUSTERELY:  Severely; rigidly; sternly. A doctrine austerely logical. Macaulay. 

AUSTIN:  Augustinian; as, Austin friars. 

AUSTRAL:  Southern; lying or being in the south; as, austral land; austral ocean. Austral signs (Astron.), the last six signs of the zodiac, or those south of the equator. 

AUSTRALASIAN:  Of or pertaining to Australasia; as, Australasian regions.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Australasia. 

AUSTRALIAN:  Of or pertaining to Australia.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Australia.  AUSTRALIAN BALLOT Aus*tra"li*an bal"lot. (Law)  A system of balloting or voting in public elections, originally used in South Australia, in which there is such an arrangement for polling votes that secrecy is compulsorily maintained, and the ballot used is an official ballot printed and distributed by the government. 

AUSTRALIZE:  To tend toward the south pole, as a magnet. [Obs.] They [magnets] do septentrionate at one extreme, and australize at another. Sir T. Browne. 

AUSTRIAN:  Of or pertaining to Austria, or to its inhabitants.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Austria. 

AUSTRINE:  Southern; southerly; austral. [Obs.] Bailey.  AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN Aus"tro-Hun*ga"ri*an, a.  Of or pertaining to the monarchy composed of Austria and Hungary. 

AUSTROMANCY:  Soothsaying, or prediction of events, from observation of the winds. 

AUSZUG:  See Army organization, Switzerland. 

AUTARCHY:  Self-sufficiency. [Obs.] Milton. 

AUTHENTIC:  Vested with all due formalities, and legally attested.  5. (Mus.)  Having as immediate relation to the tonic, in distinction from plagal, which has a correspondent relation to the dominant in the octave below the tonic.  Syn.  -- Authentic, Genuine. These words, as here compared, have reference to historical documents. We call a document genuine when it can be traced back ultimately to the author or authors from whom it professes to emanate. Hence, the word has the meaning, "not changed from the original, uncorrupted, unadulterated:" as, a genuine text. We call a document authentic when, on the ground of its being thus traced back, it may be relied on as true and authoritative (from the primary sense of "having an author, vouched for"); hence its extended signification, in general literature, of trustworthy, as resting on unquestionable authority or evidence; as, an authentic history; an authentic report of facts. A genuine book is that which was written by the person whose name it bears, as the author of it. An authentic book is that which relates matters of fact as they really happened. A book may be genuine without being, authentic, and a book may be authentic without being genuine. Bp. Watson.  Note: It may be said, however, that some writers use authentic (as, an authentic document) in the sense of "produced by its professed author, not counterfeit." 

AUTHENTIC:  An original (book or document). [Obs.] "Authentics and transcripts." Fuller. 

AUTHENTICAL:  Authentic. [Archaic] 

AUTHENTICALLY:  In an authentic manner; with the requisite or genuine authority. 

AUTHENTICALNESS:  The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Barrow. 

AUTHENTICLY:  Authentically. 

AUTHENTICNESS:  The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Hammond. 

AUTHENTICS:  A collection of the Novels or New Constitutions of Justinian, by an anonymous author; -- so called on account of its authencity. Bouvier. 

AUTHORESS:  A female author. Glover.  Note: The word is not very much used, author being commonly applied to a female writer as well as to a male. 

AUTHORIAL:  Of or pertaining to an author. "The authorial Hare. 

AUTHORISM:  Authoriship. [R.] 

AUTHORIZABLE:  Capable of being authorized. Hammond. 

AUTHORIZATION:  The act of giving authority or legal power; establishment by authority; sanction or warrant. The authorization of laws. Motley. A special authorization from the chief. Merivale. 

AUTHORIZED:  , to rely for authority. [Obs.] Authorizing himself, for the most part, upon other histories. Sir P. Sidney. 

AUTHORIZER:  One who authorizes. 

AUTHORLESS:  Without an author; without authority; anonymous. 

AUTHORLY:  Authorial. [R.] Cowper. 

AUTHOTYPE:  A type or block containing a facsimile of an autograph. Knight.  AUTO- Au"to- (. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form, with the meaning of self, one's self, one's own, itself, its own. 

AUTOBIOGRAPHER:  One who writers his own life or biography.  AUTOBIOGRAPHIC; AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic, Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to, or containing, autobiography; as, an autobiographical sketch. "Such traits of the autobiographic sort." Carlyle.  -- Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

AUTOBIOGRAPHIST:  One who writes his own life; an autobiographer. [R.] 

AUTOBIOGRAPHY:  A biography written by the subject of it; memoirs of one's life written by one's self.  AUTOCARPOUS; AUTOCARPIAN Au`to*car"pous, Au`to*car"pi*an, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Bot.)  Consisting of the pericarp of the ripened pericarp with no other parts adnate to it, as a peach, a poppy capsule, or a grape. 

AUTOCATALYSIS:  Self-catalysis; catalysis of a substance by one of its own products, as of silver oxide by the silver formed by reduction of a small portion of it. -- Au`to*cat`a*lyt"ic (#), a. 

AUTOCEPHALOUS:  Having its own head; independent of episcopal or patriarchal jurisdiction, as certain Greek churches. 

AUTOCHRONOGRAPH:  An instrument for the instantaneous self-recording or printing of time. Knight. 

AUTOCHTHON:  Aboriginal; indigenous; native. 

AUTOCHTHONISM:  The state of being autochthonal. 

AUTOCHTHONY:  An aboriginal or autochthonous condition. 

AUTOCLASTIC:  Broken in place; -- said of rocks having a broken or brecciated structure due to crushing, in contrast to those of brecciated materials brought from a distance. 

AUTOCLAVE:  A kind of French stewpan with a steamtight lid. Knight. 

AUTOCOHERER:  A self-restoring coherer, as a microphonic detector. 

AUTOCRACY:  The action of the vital principle, or of the instinctive powers, toward the preservation of the individual; also, the vital principle. [In this sense, written also autocrasy.] Dunglison. 

AUTOCRAT:  Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute; holding independent and arbitrary powers of government.  -- Au`to*crat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

AUTOCRATOR:  An autocrat. [Archaic] 

AUTOCRATORICAL:  Pertaining to an autocrator; absolute. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

AUTOCRATRIX:  A female sovereign who is independent and absolute; -- a title given to the empresses of Russia. 

AUTOCRATSHIP:  The office or dignity of an autocrat.  AUTO-DA-FE Au"to-da-fé", n.; pl. Autos-da-fé (. Etym: [Pg., act of the faith; auto act, fr. L. actus + da of the + fé faith, fr. L. fides.]  1. A judgment of the Inquisition in Spain and Portugal condemning or acquitting persons accused of religious offenses.  2. An execution of such sentence, by the civil power, esp. the burning of a heretic. It was usually held on Sunday, and was made a great public solemnity by impressive forms and ceremonies.  3. A session of the court of Inquisition.  AUTO-DE-FE Au"to-de-fe", n.; pl. Autos-de-fe. Etym: [Sp., act of faith.]  Same as Auto-da-fé. 

AUTODIDACT:  One who is self-taught; an automath. 

AUTODYNAMIC:  Supplying its own power; -- applied to an instrument of the nature of a water-ram. 

AUTOECIOUS:  Passing through all its stages on one host, as certain parasitic fungi; -- contrasted with heterocious. 

AUTOECISM:  Quality of being autocious. 

AUTOFECUNDATION:  Self-impregnation. Darwin. 

AUTOGAMOUS:  Characterized by autogamy; self-fertilized. 

AUTOGAMY:  Self-fertilization, the fertilizing pollen being derived from the same blossom as the pistil acted upon. 

AUTOGENEAL:  Self-produced; autogenous. 

AUTOGENESIS:  Spontaneous generation. 

AUTOGENETIC:  Relating to autogenesis; self-generated.  AUTOGENETIC DRAINAGE Autogenetic drainage. (Phys. Geog.)  A system of natural drainage developed by the constituent streams through headwater erosion.  AUTOGENETIC TOPOGRAPHY Autogenetic topography. (Phys. Geog.)  A system of land forms produced by the free action of rain and streams on rocks of uniform texture. 

AUTOGENOUS:  Self-generated; produced independently.  2. (Anat.)  Developed from an independent center of ossification. Owen. Autogenous soldering, the junction by fusion of the joining edges of metals without the intervention of solder. 

AUTOGENOUSLY:  In an autogenous manner; spontaneously. 

AUTOGRAPH:  That which is written with one's own hand; an original manuscript; a person's own signature or handwriting. 

AUTOGRAPH:  In one's own handwriting; as, an autograph letter; an autograph will. 

AUTOGRAPHAL:  Autographic. [Obs.]  AUTOGRAPHIC; AUTOGRAPHICAL Au`to*graph"ic, Au`to*graph"ic*al, a.  1. Pertaining to an autograph, or one's own handwriting; of the nature of an autograph.  2. Pertaining to, or used in, the process of autography; as, autographic ink, paper, or press. 

AUTOHARP:  A zitherlike musical instrument, provided with dampers which, when depressed, deaden some strings, leaving free others that form a chord. 

AUTOHYPNOTIC:  Pert. to autohypnotism; self-hypnotizing. -- n.  An autohypnotic person. 

AUTOHYPNOTISM:  Hypnotism of one's self by concentration of the attention on some object or idea.  AUTO-INFECTION Au`to-in*fec"tion, n.  [Auto- + infection.] (Med.)  Poisoning caused by a virus that originates and develops in the organism itself.  AUTO-INOCULATION Au`to-in*oc`u*la"tion, n.  [Auto-+ inoculation.] (Med.)  Inoculation of a person with virus from his own body.  AUTO-INTOXICATION Au`to-in*tox`i*ca"tion, n.  [Auto-+ intoxication.] (Med.)  Poisoning, or the state of being poisoned, from toxic substances produced within the body; autotoxæmia. 

AUTOKINESIS:  Spontaneous or voluntary movement; movement due to an internal cause. 

AUTOKINETIC:  Self-moving; moving automatically.  AUTOKINETIC SYSTEM Autokinetic system.  In fire-alarm telegraphy, a system so arranged that when one alarm is being transmitted, no other alarm, sent in from another point, will be transmitted until after the first alarm has been disposed of. 

AUTOLATRY:  Self-worship. Farrar. 

AUTOMATH:  One who is self-taught. [R.] Young.  AUTOMATIC; AUTOMATICAL Au`to*mat"ic, Au`to*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. automatique. See Automaton.]  1. Having an inherent power of action or motion. Nothing can be said to be automatic. Sir H. Davy.  2. Pertaining to, or produced by, an automaton; of the nature of an automaton; self-acting or self-regulating under fixed conditions; -- esp. applied to machinery or devices in which certain things formerly or usually done by hand are done by the machine or device itself; as, the automatic feed of a lathe; automatic gas lighting; an automatic engine or switch; an automatic mouse.  3. Not voluntary; not depending on the will; mechanical; as, automatic movements or functions. Unconscious or automatic reasoning. H. Spenser. Automatic arts, such economic arts or manufacture as are carried on by self-acting machinery. Ure. 

AUTOMATICALLY:  In an automatic manner. 

AUTOMATISM:  The state or quality of being automatic; the power of self- moving; automatic, mechanical, or involuntary action. (Metaph.) A theory as to the activity of matter. 

AUTOMATOUS:  Automatic. [Obs.] "Automatous organs." Sir T. Browne.  AUTOMIXTE SYSTEM Au`to*mixte" system. (Mach.)  A system (devised by Henri Pieper, a Belgian) of driving automobiles employing a gasoline engine and an auxiliary reversible dynamo. When there is an excess of power the dynamo is driven by the engine so as to charge a small storage battery; when there is a deficiency of power the dynamo reverses and acts as an auxiliary motor. Sometimes called Pieper system. -- Automixte car, etc. 

AUTOMOBILE:  An automobile vehicle or mechanism; esp., a self-propelled vehicle suitable for use on a street or roadway. Automobiles are usually propelled by internal combustion engines (using volatile inflammable liquids, as gasoline or petrol, alcohol, naphtha, etc.), steam engines, or electric motors. The power of the driving motor varies from about 4 to 50 H. P. for ordinary vehicles, ranging from the run-about to the touring car, up to as high as 200 H. P. for specially built racing cars. Automobiles are also commonly, and generally in British usage, called motor cars. 

AUTOMOBILISM:  The use of automobiles, or the practices, methods, or the like, of those who use them. -- Au`to*mo"bil*ist, n. 

AUTOMORPHIC:  Patterned after one's self. The conception which any one frames of another's mind is more or less after the pattern of his own mind, -- is automorphic. H. Spenser. 

AUTOMORPHISM:  Automorphic characterization. H. Spenser. 

AUTONOMASY:  The use of a word of common or general signification for the name of a particular thing; as, "He has gone to town," for, "He has gone to London." 

AUTONOMIC:  Having the power of self-government; autonomous. Hickok. 

AUTONOMIST:  One who advocates autonomy. 

AUTONOMOUS:  Having independent existence or laws. 

AUTONOMY:  The sovereignty of reason in the sphere of morals; or man's power, as possessed of reason, to give law to himself. In this, according to Kant, consist the true nature and only possible proof of liberty. Fleming. 

AUTOPATHIC:  Dependent upon, or due or relating to, the structure and characteristics of the diseased organism; endopathic; as, an autopathic disease; an autopathic theory of diseases. 

AUTOPHAGI:  Birds which are able to run about and obtain their own food as soon as hatched. 

AUTOPHAGY:  The feeding of the body upon itself, as in fasting; nutrition by consumption of one's own tissues. 

AUTOPHOBY:  Fear of one's self; fear of being egotistical. [R.] Hare. 

AUTOPHONY:  An auscultatory process, which consists in noting the tone of the observer's own voice, while he speaks, holding his head close to the patient's chest. Dunglison. 

AUTOPLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to autoplasty. 

AUTOPLASTY:  The process of artificially repairing lesions by taking a piece of healthy tissue, as from a neighboring part, to supply the deficiency caused by disease or wounds. 

AUTOPNEUMATIC:  Acting or moving automatically by means of compressed air.  AUTOPSIC; AUTOPSICAL Au*top"sic, Au*top"sic*al, a.  Pertaining to autopsy; autoptical. [Obs.] 

AUTOPSORIN:  That which is given under the doctrine of administering a patient's own virus. 

AUTOPSY:  Dissection of a dead body, for the purpose of ascertaining the cause, seat, or nature of a disease; a post-mortem examination.  AUTOPTIC; AUTOPTICAL Au*top"tic, Au*top"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. autoptique.]  Seen with one's own eyes; belonging to, or connected with, personal observation; as, autoptic testimony or experience. 

AUTOPTICALLY:  By means of ocular view, or one's own observation. Sir T. Browne.  AUTOSCHEDIASTIC; AUTOSCHEDIASTICAL Au`to*sche`di*as"tic, Au`to*sche`di*as"tic*al, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. Schediasm.]  Extemporary; offhand. [R.] Dean Martin. 

AUTOSTABILITY:  Automatic stability; also, inherent stability. An aëroplane is inherently stable if it keeps in steady poise by virtue of its shape and proportions alone; it is automatically stable if it keeps in steady poise by means of self-operative mechanism. 

AUTOSTYLIC:  Having the mandibular arch articulated directly to the cranium, as in the skulls of the Amphibia. 

AUTOSUGGESTION:  Self-suggestion as distinguished from suggestion coming from another, esp. in hypnotism. Autosuggestion is characteristic of certain mental conditions in which expectant belief tends to produce disturbance of function of one or more organs. 

AUTOTHEIST:  One given to self-worship. [R.]  AUTOTOXAEMIA; AUTOTOXEMIA Au`to*tox*æ"mi*a, Au`to*tox*e"mi*a, n. [NL. See Auto-, and Toxæmia.] (Physiol.)  Self-intoxication. See Auto-intoxication. 

AUTOTOXIC:  Pertaining to, or causing, autotoxæmia. 

AUTOTOXICATION:  Same as Auto-intoxication. 

AUTOTRANSFORMER:  A transformer in which part of the primary winding is used as a secondary winding, or vice versa; -- called also a compensator or balancing coil. 

AUTOTROPHIC:  Capable of self-nourishment; -- said of all plants in which photosynthetic activity takes place, as opposed to parasitism or saprophytism. 

AUTOTROPISM:  The tendency of plant organs to grow in a straight line when uninfluenced by external stimuli. 

AUTOTYPOGRAPHY:  A process resembling "nature printing," by which drawings executed on gelatin are impressed into a soft metal plate, from which the printing is done as from copperplate. 

AUTOTYPY:  The art or process of making autotypes. 

AUTUNITE:  A lemon-yellow phosphate of uranium and calcium occurring in tabular crystals with basal cleavage, and in micalike scales. H., 2- 2.5. Sp. gr., 3.05-3.19. 

AUXANOMETER:  An instrument to measure the growth of plants. Goodale. 

AUXESIS:  A figure by which a grave and magnificent word is put for the proper word; amplification; hyperbole. 

AUXETIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, auxesis; amplifying. 

AUXETOPHONE:  A pneumatic reproducer for a phonograph, controlled by the recording stylus on the principle of the relay. It produces much clearer and louder tones than does the ordinary vibrating disk reproducer. 

AUXILIAR:  Auxiliary. [Archaic] The auxiliar troops and Trojan hosts appear. Pope. 

AUXILIAR:  An auxiliary. [Archaic] Milton. 

AUXILIARLY:  By way of help. Harris. 

AUXILIARY:  Conferring aid or help; helping; aiding; assisting; subsidiary; as auxiliary troops. Auxiliary scales (Mus.), the scales of relative or attendant keys. See under Attendant, a.  -- Auxiliary verbs (Gram.). See Auxiliary, n., 3. 

AUXILIARY:  Foreign troops in the service of a nation at war; (rarely in sing.), a member of the allied or subsidiary force.  3. (Gram.)  A verb which helps to form the voices, modes, and tenses of other verbs; -- called, also, an auxiliary verb; as, have, be, may, can, do, must, shall, and will, in English; être and avoir, in French; avere and essere, in Italian; estar and haber, in Spanish.  4. (Math.)  A quantity introduced for the purpose of simplifying or facilitating some operation, as in equations or trigonometrical formulæ. Math. Dict. 

AUXILIATORY:  Auxiliary; helping. [Obs.] 

AUXOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the magnifying power of a lens or system of lenses. 

AVA:  Same as Kava. Johnston. 

AVADAVAT:  Same as Amadavat. 

AVAIL:  To be of use or advantage; to answer the purpose; to have strength, force, or efficacy sufficient to accomplish the object; as, the plea in bar must avail, that is, be sufficient to defeat the suit; this scheme will not avail; medicines will not avail to check the disease. "What signs avail " Milton. Words avail very little with me, young man. Sir W. Scott. 

AVAIL:  Proceeds; as, the avails of a sale by auction. The avails of their own industry. Stoddard.  Syn.  -- Use; benefit; utility; profit; service. 

AVAIL:  See Avale, v. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AVAILABLY:  In an available manner; profitably; advantageously; efficaciously. 

AVAILMENT:  Profit; advantage. [Obs.] 

AVALE:  To descend; to fall; to dismount. [Obs.] And from their sweaty courses did avale. Spenser. 

AVANT:  The front of an army. [Obs.] See Van.  AVANT-COURIER A*vant"-cou`ri*er, n. Etym: [F., fr. avant before + courrier. See Avaunt, and Courier.]  A person dispatched before another person or company, to give notice of his or their approach.  AVANT-GUARD A*vant"-guard` (; sq. root277), n. Etym: [F. avant before + E. guard, F. avant-garde. See Avaunt.]  The van or advanced body of an army. See Vanguard. 

AVARICIOUS:  Actuated by avarice; greedy of gain; immoderately desirous of accumulating property.  Syn.  -- Greedy; stingy; rapacious; griping; sordid; close.  -- Avaricious, Covetous, Parsimonious, Penurious, Miserly, Niggardly. The avaricious eagerly grasp after it at the expense of others, though not of necessity with a design to save, since a man may be covetous and yet a spendthrift. The penurious, parsimonious, and miserly save money by disgraceful self-denial, and the niggardly by meanness in their dealing with others. We speak of persons as covetous in getting, avaricious in retaining, parsimonious in expending, penurious or miserly in modes of living, niggardly in dispensing.  -- Av`a*ri"cious*ly, adv -- Av`a*ri"cious*ness, n. 

AVAROUS:  Avaricious. [Obs.] 

AVAST:  Cease; stop; stay. "Avast heaving." Totten. 

AVATAR:  The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a man or an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu.  2. Incarnation; manifestation as an object of worship or admiration. 

AVAUNCE:  To advance; to profit. Chaucer. 

AVAUNT:  Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalent to the phrase "Get thee gone." 

AVAUNT:  To vaunt; to boast. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AVAUNT:  A vaunt; to boast. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AVAUNTOUR:  A boaster. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AVEL:  To pull away. [Obs.] Yet are not these parts avelled. Sir T. Browne. 

AVELLANE:  In the form of four unhusked filberts; as, an avellane cross.  AVE MARIA; AVE MARY A"ve Ma*ri"a, A"ve Ma"ry.Etym: [From the first words of the Roman Catholic prayer to the Virgin Mary; L. ave hail, Maria Mary.]  1. A salutation and prayer to the Virgin Mary, as mother of God; -- used in the Roman Catholic church. To number Ave Maries on his beads. Shak.  2. A particular time (as in Italy, at the ringing of the bells about half an hour after sunset, and also at early dawn), when the people repeat the Ave Maria. Ave Maria ! blessed be the hour ! Byron. 

AVENA:  A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa); the oat grasses. 

AVENACEOUS:  Belonging to, or resembling, oats or the oat grasses. 

AVENAGE:  A quantity of oats paid by a tenant to a landlord in lieu of rent. Jacob. 

AVENALIN:  A crystalline globulin, contained in oat kernels, very similar in composition to excelsin, but different in reactions and crystalline form. 

AVENER:  An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide oats for the horses. [Obs.] 

AVENGE:  To take vengeance. Levit. xix. 18. 

AVENGE:  Vengeance; revenge. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AVENGEANCE:  Vengeance. [Obs.] 

AVENGEFUL:  Vengeful. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AVENGEMENT:  The inflicting of retributive punishment; satisfaction taken. [R.] Milton. 

AVENGERESS:  A female avenger. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AVENIOUS:  Being without veins or nerves, as the leaves of certain plants. 

AVENOR:  See Avener. [Obs.] 

AVENS:  A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet. 

AVENTAIL:  The movable front to a helmet; the ventail. 

AVENTINE:  Pertaining to Mons Aventinus, one of the seven hills on which Rome stood. Bryant. 

AVENTINE:  A post of security or defense. [Poetic] Into the castle's tower, The only Aventine that now is left him. Beau. & Fl. 

AVENTRE:  To thrust forward (at a venture), as a spear. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AVENTURE:  A mischance causing a person's death without felony, as by drowning, or falling into the fire. 

AVENTURINE:  A variety of translucent quartz, spangled throughout with scales of yellow mica. ~= feldspar, a variety of oligoclase with internal firelike reflections due to the presence of minute crystals, probably of hematite; sunstone. 

AVER:  A work horse, or working ox. [Obs. or Dial. Eng.] 

AVER:  To avouch or verify; to offer to verify; to prove or justify. See Averment.  3. To affirm with confidence; to declare in a positive manner, as in confidence of asserting the truth. It is sufficient that the very fact hath its foundation in truth, as I do seriously aver is the case. Fielding. Then all averred I had killed the bird. Coleridge.  Syn.  -- To assert; affirm; asseverate. See Affirm. 

AVERAGE:  That service which a tenant owed his lord, to be done by the work beasts of the tenant, as the carriage of wheat, turf, etc.  2. Etym: [Cf. F. avarie damage to ship or cargo.] (Com.) (a) A tariff or duty on goods, etc. [Obs.] (b) Any charge in addition to the regular charge for freight of goods shipped. (c) A contribution to a loss or charge which has been imposed upon one of several for the general benefit; damage done by sea perils. (d) The equitable and proportionate distribution of loss or expense among all interested. General average, a contribution made, by all parties concerned in a sea adventure, toward a loss occasioned by the voluntary sacrifice of the property of some of the parties in interest for the benefit of all. It is called general average, because it falls upon the gross amount of ship, cargo, and freight at risk and saved by the sacrifice. Kent.  -- Particular average signifies the damage or partial loss happening to the ship, or cargo, or freight, in consequence of some fortuitous or unavoidable accident; and it is borne by the individual owners of the articles damaged, or by their insurers.  -- Petty averages are sundry small charges, which occur regularly, and are necessarily defrayed by the master in the usual course of a voyage; such as port charges, common pilotage, and the like, which formerly were, and in some cases still are, borne partly by the ship and partly by the cargo. In the clause commonly found in bills of lading, "primage and average accustomed," average means a kind of composition established by usage for such charges, which were formerly assessed by way of average. Arnould. Abbott. Phillips.  3. A mean proportion, medial sum or quantity, made out of unequal sums or quantities; an arithmetical mean. Thus, if A loses 5 dollars, B 9, and C 16, the sum is 30, and the average 10.  4. Any medial estimate or general statement derived from a comparison of diverse specific cases; a medium or usual size, quantity, quality, rate, etc. "The average of sensations." Paley.  5. pl.  In the English corn trade, the medial price of the several kinds of grain in the principal corn markets. On an average, taking the mean of unequal numbers or quantities. 

AVERAGE:  To form, or exist in, a mean or medial sum or quantity; to amount to, or to be, on an ~; as, the losses of the owners will average twenty five dollars each; these spars average ten feet in length. 

AVERCORN:  A reserved rent in corn, formerly paid to religious houses by their tenants or farmers. Kennet. 

AVERMENT:  A positive statement of facts; an allegation; an offer to justify or prove what is alleged.  Note: In any stage of pleadings, when either party advances new matter, he avers it to be true, by using this form of words: "and this he is ready to verify." This was formerly called an averment. It modern pleading, it is termed a verification. Blackstone.  AVERNAL; AVERNIAN A*ver"nal, A*ver"ni*an, a.  Of or pertaining to Avernus, a lake of Campania, in Italy, famous for its poisonous vapors, which ancient writers fancied were so malignant as to kill birds flying over it. It was represented by the poets to be connected with the infernal regions. 

AVERPENNY:  Money paid by a tenant in lieu of the service of average. 

AVERROISM:  The tenets of the Averroists. 

AVERROIST:  One of a sect of peripatetic philosophers, who appeared in Italy before the restoration of learning; so denominated from Averroes, or Averrhoes, a celebrated Arabian philosopher. He held the doctrine of monopsychism. 

AVERRUNCATOR:  An instrument for pruning trees, consisting of two blades, or a blade and a hook, fixed on the end of a long rod. 

AVERSATION:  A turning from with dislike; aversion. [Obs.or Archaic] Some men have a natural aversation to some vices or virtues, and a natural affection to others. Jer. Taylor. 

AVERSE:  To turn away. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

AVERSENESS:  The quality of being averse; opposition of mind; unwillingness. 

AVERT:  To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object; to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how can the danger be averted "To avert his ire." Milton. When atheists and profane persons do hear of so many discordant and contrary opinions in religion, it doth avert them from the church. Bacon. Till ardent prayer averts the public woe. Prior. 

AVERT:  To turn away. [Archaic] Cold and averting from our neighbor's good. Thomson. 

AVERTED:  Turned away, esp. as an expression of feeling; also, offended; unpropitious. Who scornful pass it with averted eye. Keble. 

AVERTER:  One who, or that which, averts. 

AVERTIBLE:  Capable of being averted; preventable. 

AVERTIMENT:  Advertisement. [Obs.] 

AVES:  The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.  Note: Aves, or birds, have a complete double circulation, oviparous, reproduction, front limbs peculiarly modified as wings; and they bear feathers. All existing birds have a horny beak, without teeth; but some Mesozoic fossil birds (Odontornithes) had conical teeth inserted in both jaws. The principal groups are: Carinatæ, including all existing flying birds; Ratitæ, including the ostrich and allies, the apteryx, and the extinct moas; Odontornithes, or fossil birds with teeth.  Note: The ordinary birds are classified largely by the structure of the beak and feet, which are in direct relating to their habits. See Beak, Bird, Odontonithes. 

AVESTA:  The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta. 

AVESTAN:  Of or pertaining to the Avesta or the language of the Avesta. - -n.  The language of the Avesta; -- less properly called Zend. 

AVIADO:  One who works a mine with means provided by another. [Sp. Amer. & Southwestern U. S.] 

AVIAN:  Of or instrument to birds. 

AVIARY:  A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping birds confined; a bird house. Lincolnshire may be termed the aviary of England. Fuller. 

AVIATE:  To fly, or navigate the air, in an aëroplane or heavier-than- air flying machine. [Colloq.] 

AVIATION:  The art or science of flying. 

AVIATOR:  A woman aviator. 

AVICULA:  A genus of marine bivalves, having a pearly interior, allied to the pearl oyster; -- so called from a supposed resemblance of the typical species to a bird. 

AVICULAR:  Of or pertaining to a bird or to birds. 

AVICULARIA:  See prehensile processes on the cells of some Bryozoa, often having the shape of a bird's bill. 

AVICULTURE:  Rearing and care of birds. 

AVID:  Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy. "Avid of gold, yet greedier of renown." Southey. 

AVIDIOUS:  Avid. 

AVIDIOUSLY:  Eagerly; greedily. 

AVIDITY:  Greediness; strong appetite; eagerness; intenseness of desire; as, to eat with avidity. His books were received and read with avidity. Milward. 

AVIE:  Emulously. [Obs.] 

AVIETTE:  A heavier-than-air flying machine in which the motive power is furnished solely by the aviator. 

AVIFAUNA:  The birds, or all the kinds of birds, inhabiting a region. 

AVIGATO:  See Avocado.  AVIGNON BERRY A`vignon" ber"ry. (Bot.)  The fruit of the Rhamnus infectorius, eand of other species of the same genus; -- so called from the city of Avignon, in France. It is used by dyers and painters for coloring yellow. Called also French berry. 

AVILE:  To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate. [Obs.] Want makes us know the price of what we avile. B. Jonson. 

AVIS:  Advice; opinion; deliberation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AVISE:  To consider; to reflect. [Obs.] 

AVISEFUL:  Watchful; circumspect. [Obs.] With sharp, aviseful eye. Spenser. 

AVISELY:  Advisedly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AVISEMENT:  Advisement; observation; deliberation. [Obs.] 

AVISION:  Vision. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AVOCADO:  The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropical America. It is about the size and shape of a large pear; -- called also avocado pear, alligator pear, midshipman's butter. 

AVOCAT:  An advocate. 

AVOCATE:  To call off or away; to withdraw; to transfer to another tribunal. [Obs. or Archaic] One who avocateth his mind from other occupations. Barrow. He, at last, . . . avocated the cause to Rome. Robertson. 

AVOCATION:  Pursuits; duties; affairs which occupy one's time; usual employment; vocation. There are professions, among the men, no more favorable to these studies than the common avocations of women. Richardson. In a few hours, above thirty thousand men left his standard, and returned to their ordinary avocations. Macaulay. An irregularity and instability of purpose, which makes them choose the wandering avocations of a shepherd, rather than the more fixed pursuits of agriculture. Buckle. 

AVOCATIVE:  Calling off. [Obs.] 

AVOCATIVE:  That which calls aside; a dissuasive.  AVOCET; AVOSET Av"o*cet, Av"o*set, n. Etym: [F. avocette: cf. It. avosetta, Sp. avoceta.] (Zoöl.)  A grallatorial bird, of the genus Recurvirostra; the scooper. The bill is long and bend upward toward the tip. The American species is R. Americana. [Written also avocette.] 

AVOID:  To defeat or evade; to invalidate. Thus, in a replication, the plaintiff may deny the defendant's plea, or confess it, and avoid it by stating new matter. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- To escape; elude; evade; eschew.  -- To Avoid, Shun. Avoid in its commonest sense means, to keep clear of, an extension of the meaning, to withdraw one's self from. It denotes care taken not to come near or in contact; as, to avoid certain persons or places. Shun is a stronger term, implying more prominently the idea of intention. The words may, however, in many cases be interchanged. No man can pray from his heart to be kept from temptation, if the take no care of himself to avoid it. Mason. So Chanticleer, who never saw a fox, Yet shunned him as a sailor shuns the rocks. Dryden. 

AVOID:  To become void or vacant. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

AVOIDLESS:  Unavoidable; inevitable. 

AVOKE:  To call from or back again. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 

AVOLATE:  To fly away; to escape; to exhale. [Obs.] 

AVOLATION:  The act of flying; flight; evaporation. [Obs.] 

AVOSET:  Same as Avocet. 

AVOUCH:  Evidence; declaration. [Obs.] The sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes. Shak. 

AVOUCHABLE:  Capable of being avouched. 

AVOUCHER:  One who avouches. 

AVOUCHMENT:  The act of avouching; positive declaration. [Obs.] Milton. 

AVOUTRER:  See Advoutrer. [Obs.] 

AVOUTRIE:  Adultery. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AVOW:  To acknowledge and justify, as an act done. See Avowry. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- To acknowledge; own; confess. See Confess. 

AVOW:  Avowal. [Obs.] Dryden. 

AVOW:  To bind, or to devote, by a vow. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

AVOW:  A vow or determination. [Archaic] 

AVOWABLE:  Capable of being avowed, or openly acknowledged, with confidence. Donne. 

AVOWAL:  An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal of such principles. Hume. 

AVOWANT:  The defendant in replevin, who avows the distress of the goods, and justifies the taking. Cowell. 

AVOWED:  Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted.  -- A*vow"ed*ly (, adv. 

AVOWEE:  The person who has a right to present to a benefice; the patron; an advowee. See Advowson. 

AVOWER:  One who avows or asserts. 

AVOWTRY:  Adultery. See Advoutry. 

AVOYER:  A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of Switzerland. [Obs.] 

AVULSE:  To pluck or pull off. Shenstone. 

AVULSION:  The sudden removal of lands or soil from the estate of one man to that of another by an inundation or a current, or by a sudden change in the course of a river by which a part of the estate of one man is cut off and joined to the estate of another. The property in the part thus separated, or cut off, continues in the original owner. Wharton. Burrill. 

AVUNCULAR:  Of or pertaining to an uncle. In these rare instances, the law of pedigree, whether direct or avuncular, gives way. I. Taylor. 

AWAIT:  A waiting for; ambush; watch; watching; heed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AWAKE:  To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep; and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction or death. The national spirit again awoke. Freeman. Awake to righteousness, and sin not. 1 Cor. xv. 34. 

AWAKE:  Not sleeping or lethargic; roused from sleep; in a state of vigilance or action. Before whom awake I stood. Milton. She still beheld, Now wide awake, the vision of her sleep. Keats. He was awake to the danger. Froude. 

AWAKEN:  To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake. [He] is dispatched Already to awaken whom thou nam'st. Cowper. Their consciences are thoroughly awakened. Tillotson.  Syn.  -- To arouse; excite; stir up; call forth. 

AWAKENER:  One who, or that which, awakens. 

AWAKENING:  Rousing from sleep, in a natural or a figurative sense; rousing into activity; exciting; as, the awakening city; an awakening discourse; the awakening dawn.  -- A*wak"en*ing*ly, adv. 

AWAKENING:  The act of awaking, or ceasing to sleep. Specifically: A revival of religion, or more general attention to religious matters than usual. 

AWAKENMENT:  An awakening. [R.] 

AWANTING:  Missing; wanting. [Prov. Scot. & Eng.] Sir W. Hamilton. 

AWARD:  To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign or apportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; to adjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant. To review The wrongful sentence, and award a new. Dryden. 

AWARD:  To determine; to make an ~. 

AWARDER:  One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicial determination; a judge. 

AWARN:  To warn. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AWASH:  Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip of shore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface of the water, so that the waves break over it. 

AWAY:  Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe until after its expiration; -- said of crops. Wharton. 

AWAYWARD:  Turned away; away. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AWE:  To strike with fear and reverence; to inspire with awe; to control by inspiring dread. That same eye whose bend doth awe the world. Shak. His solemn and pathetic exhortation awed and melted the bystanders. Macaulay. 

AWEARIED:  Wearied. [Poetic] 

AWEARY:  Weary. [Poetic] "I begin to be aweary of thee." Shak. 

AWEATHER:  On the weather side, or toward the wind; in the direction from which the wind blows; -- opposed to alee; as, helm aweather ! Totten. 

AWEIGH:  Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly; atrip; -- said of the anchor. Totten. 

AWELESS:  See Awless. 

AWESOMENESS:  The quality of being awesome.  AWE-STRICKEN Awe"-strick`en, a.  Awe-struck.  AWE-STRUCK Awe"-struck`, a.  Struck with awe. Milton. 

AWHAPE:  To confound; to terrify; to amaze. [Obs.] Spenser. 

AWHILE:  For a while; for some time; for a short time. 

AWING:  On the wing; flying; fluttering. Wallace. 

AWK:  Perversely; in the wrong way. L'Estrange. 

AWKWARD:  A squad of inapt recruits assembled for special drill. 

AWL:  A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather or wood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade is differently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the brad awl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc. 

AWLESSNESS:  The quality of being awless.  AWL-SHAPED Awl"-shaped`, a.  1. Shaped like an awl.  2. (Nat. Hist.)  Subulate. See Subulate. Gray. 

AWLWORT:  A plant (Subularia aquatica), with awl-shaped leaves. 

AWM:  See Aam. 

AWN:  The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or any similar bristlelike appendage; arista. Gray. 

AWNED:  Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded. Gray. 

AWNINGED:  Furnished with an awning. 

AWNLESS:  Without awns or beard. 

AWNY:  Having awns; bearded. 

AWORK:  At work; in action. "Set awork." Shak. 

AWORKING:  At work; in action. [Archaic or Colloq.] Spenser.  AWREAK; AWREKE A*wreak", A*wreke",, v. t. & i.  To avenge. [Obs.] See Wreak. 

AWRONG:  Wrongly. Ford. 

AWSOME:  Same as Awesome.  AX; AXE Ax, Axe,, n. Etym: [OE. ax, axe, AS. eax, æx, acas; akin to D. akse, OS. accus, OHG. acchus, G. axt, Icel. öx, öxi, Sw. yxe, Dan. ökse, Goth. aqizi, Gr. , L. ascia; not akin to E. acute.]  A tool or instrument of steel, or of iron with a steel edge or blade, for felling trees, chopping and splitting wood, hewing timber, etc. It is wielded by a wooden helve or handle, so fixed in a socket or eye as to be in the same plane with the blade. The broadax, or carpenter's ax, is an ax for hewing timber, made heavier than the chopping ax, and with a broader and thinner blade and a shorter handle.  Note: The ancient battle-ax had sometimes a double edge.  Note: The word is used adjectively or in combination; as, axhead or ax head; ax helve; ax handle; ax shaft; ax-shaped; axlike.  Note: This word was originally spelt with e, axe; and so also was nearly every corresponding word of one syllable: as, flaxe, taxe, waxe, sixe, mixe, pixe, oxe, fluxe, etc. This superfluous e is not dropped; so that, in more than a hundred words ending in x, no one thinks of retaining the e except in axe. Analogy requires its exclusion here.  Note: "The spelling ax is better on every ground, of etymology, phonology, and analogy, than axe, which has of late become prevalent." New English Dict. (Murray). 

AX:  To ask; to inquire or inquire of.  Note: This word is from Saxon, and is as old as the English language. Formerly it was in good use, but now is regarded as a vulgarism. It is still dialectic in England, and is sometimes heard among the uneducated in the United States. "And Pilate axide him, Art thou king of Jewis" "Or if he axea fish." Wyclif. 'bdThe king axed after your Grace's welfare." Pegge. 

AXAL:  [See Axial.] [R.]  AXE; AXEMAN Axe, Axe"man, etc.  See Ax, Axman. 

AXIAL:  Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; or to the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones. Axial line (Magnetism), the line taken by the magnetic force in passing from one pole of a horseshoe magnet to the other. Faraday. 

AXIALLY:  In relation to, or in a line with, an axis; in the axial (magnetic) line. 

AXIL:  The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of a branch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which it springs. Gray. 

AXILE:  Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies in the axis of a seed. Gray. 

AXILLA:  The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder.  2. (Bot.)  An axil. 

AXILLAR:  Axillary.  AXILLARIES; AXILLARS Ax"il*la*ries, Ax"il*lars, n. pl. (Zoöl.)  Feathers connecting the under surface of the wing and the body, and concealed by the closed wing. 

AXILLARY:  Of or pertaining to the axilla or armpit; as, axillary gland, artery, nerve.  2. (Bot.)  Situated in, or rising from, an axil; of or pertaining to an axil. "Axillary buds." Gray. 

AXINITE:  A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found in glassy, brown crystals with acute edges. 

AXINOMANCY:  A species of divination, by means of an ax or hatchet. 

AXIOM:  A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for granted; as, "The whole is greater than a part;" "A thing can not, at the same time, be and not be."  2. An established principle in some art or science, which, though not a necessary truth, is universally received; as, the axioms of political economy.  Syn.  -- Axiom, Maxim, Aphorism, Adage. An axiom is a self-evident truth which is taken for granted as the basis of reasoning. A maxim is a guiding principle sanctioned by experience, and relating especially to the practical concerns of life. An aphorism is a short sentence pithily expressing some valuable and general truth or sentiment. An adage is a saying of long-established authority and of universal application.  AXIOMATIC; AXIOMATICAL Ax`i*o*mat"ic, Ax`i*o*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to an axiom; having the nature of an axiom; self-evident; characterized by axioms. "Axiomatical truth." Johnson. The stores of axiomatic wisdom. I. Taylor. 

AXIOMATICALLY:  By the use of axioms; in the form of an axiom. 

AXIS:  The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, where it is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name). 

AXIS:  A straight line, real or imaginary, passing through a body, on which it revolves, or may be supposed to revolve; a line passing through a body or system around which the parts are symmetrically arranged.  2. (Math.)  A straight line with respect to which the different parts of a magnitude are symmetrically arranged; as, the axis of a cylinder, i. e., the axis of a cone, that is, the straight line joining the vertex and the center of the base; the axis of a circle, any straight line passing through the center.  3. (Bot.)  The stem; the central part, or longitudinal support, on which organs or parts are arranged; the central line of any body. Gray.  4. (Anat.) (a) The second vertebra of the neck, or vertebra dentata. (b) Also used of the body only of the vertebra, which is prolonged anteriorly within the foramen of the first vertebra or atlas, so as to form the odontoid process or peg which serves as a pivot for the atlas and head to turn upon.  5. (Crystallog.)  One of several imaginary lines, assumed in describing the position of the planes by which a crystal is bounded.  6. (Fine Arts)  The primary of secondary central line of any design. Anticlinal axis (Geol.), a line or ridge from which the strata slope downward on the two opposite sides.  -- Synclinal axis, a line from which the strata slope upward in opposite directions, so as to form a valley.  -- Axis cylinder (Anat.), the neuraxis or essential, central substance of a nerve fiber; -- called also axis band, axial fiber, and cylinder axis.  -- Axis in peritrochio, the wheel and axle, one of the mechanical powers.  -- Axis of a curve (Geom.), a straight line which bisects a system of parallel chords of a curve; called a principal axis, when cutting them at right angles, in which case it divides the curve into two symmetrical portions, as in the parabola, which has one such axis, the ellipse, which has two, or the circle, which has an infinite number. The two axes of the ellipse are the major axis and the minor axis, and the two axes of the hyperbola are the transverse axis and the conjugate axis.  -- Axis of a lens, the straight line passing through its center and perpendicular to its surfaces.  -- Axis of a telescope or microscope, the straight line with which coincide the axes of the several lenses which compose it.  -- Axes of coördinates in a plane, to straight lines intersecting each other, to which points are referred for the purpose of determining their relative position: they are either rectangular or oblique.  -- Axes of coördinates in space, the three straight lines in which the coördinate planes intersect each other.  -- Axis of a balance, that line about which it turns.  -- Axis of oscillation, of a pendulum, a right line passing through the center about which it vibrates, and perpendicular to the plane of vibration.  -- Axis of polarization, the central line around which the prismatic rings or curves are arranged. Brewster.  -- Axis of revolution (Descriptive Geom.), a straight line about which some line or plane is revolved, so that the several points of the line or plane shall describe circles with their centers in the fixed line, and their planes perpendicular to it, the line describing a surface of revolution, and the plane a solid of revolution.  -- Axis of symmetry (Geom.), any line in a plane figure which divides the figure into two such parts that one part, when folded over along the axis, shall coincide with the other part.  -- Axis of the equator, ecliptic, horizon (or other circle considered with reference to the sphere on which it lies), the diameter of the sphere which is perpendicular to the plane of the circle. Hutton.  -- Axis of the Ionic capital (Arch.), a line passing perpendicularly through the middle of the eye of the volute.  -- Neutral axis (Mech.), the line of demarcation between the horizontal elastic forces of tension and compression, exerted by the fibers in any cross section of a girder.  -- Optic axis of a crystal, the direction in which a ray of transmitted light suffers no double refraction. All crystals, not of the isometric system, are either uniaxial or biaxial.  -- Optic axis, Visual axis (Opt.), the straight line passing through the center of the pupil, and perpendicular to the surface of the eye.  -- Radical axis of two circles (Geom.), the straight line perpendicular to the line joining their centers and such that the tangents from any point of it to the two circles shall be equal to each other.  -- Spiral axis (Arch.), the axis of a twisted column drawn spirally in order to trace the circumvolutions without.  -- Axis of abscissas and Axis of ordinates. See Abscissa. 

AXLED:  Having an axle; -- used in composition. Merlin's agate-axled car. T. Warton.  AXLE GUARD Ax"le guard`.  The part of the framing of a railway car or truck, by which an axle box is held laterally, and in which it may move vertically; -- also called a jaw in the United States, and a housing in England. 

AXMAN:  One who wields an ax. 

AXMINSTER:  An Axminster carpet, an imitation Turkey carpet, noted for its thick and soft pile; -- so called from Axminster, Eng.  AXMINSTER; AXMINSTER CARPET Ax"min*ster, n., or Axminster carpet .  (a) [More fully chenille Axminster.] A variety of Turkey carpet, woven by machine or, when more than 27 inches wide, on a hand loom, and consisting of strips of worsted chenille so colored as to produce a pattern on a stout jute backing. It has a fine soft pile. So called from Axminster, England, where it was formerly (1755 -- 1835) made.  (b) A similar but cheaper machine-made carpet, resembling moquette in construction and appearance, but finer and of better material. 

AXOLOTL:  An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevated lakes of Mexico; the siredon.  Note: When it breeds in captivity the young develop into true salamanders of the genus Amblystoma. This also occurs naturally under favorable conditions, in its native localities; although it commonly lives and breeds in a larval state, with persistent external gills. See Siredon. 

AXSTONE:  A variety of jade. It is used by some savages, particularly the natives of the South Sea Islands, for making axes or hatchets. 

AXTREE:  Axle or axletree. [Obs.] Drayton. 

AXUNGE:  Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.), lard prepared for medical use. 

AY:  Ah! alas! "Ay me! I fondly dream `Had ye been there.'" Milton. 

AY:  Same as Aye. 

AYAH:  A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid. [India]  AYE; AY Aye, Ay, adv. Etym: [Perh. a modification of yea, or from the interjection of admiration or astonishment, OE. ei, ey, why, hey, ay, well, ah, ha. Cf. MHG. & G. ei, Dan. ej. Or perh. akin to aye ever.]  Yes; yea; -- a word expressing assent, or an affirmative answer to a question. It is much used in viva voce voting in legislative bodies, etc.  Note: This word is written I in the early editions of Shakespeare and other old writers. 

AYE:  An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, "To call for the ayes and noes;" "The ayes have it."  AYE; AY Aye, Ay, adv. Etym: [Icel. ei, ey; akin to AS. a, awa, always, Goth. aiws an age, Icel. æfi, OHG, , L. aevum, Gr. je, Skr. course. Age, v., Either, a., Or, conj.]  Always; ever; continually; for an indefinite time. For his mercies aye endure. Milton. For aye, always; forever; eternally.  AYE-AYE Aye"-aye`, n. Etym: [From the native name, prob. from its cry.] (Zoöl.)  A singular nocturnal quadruped, allied to the lemurs, found in Madagascar (Cheiromys Madagascariensis), remarkable for its long fingers, sharp nails, and rodent-like incisor teeth. 

AYEGREEN:  The houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum). Halliwell.  AYEN; AYEIN; AYEINS A*yen", A*yein", A*yeins", adv. & prep. Etym: [OE. Again.]  Again; back against. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AYENWARD:  Backward. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

AYLE:  A grandfather. [Obs.] Writ of Ayle, an ancient English writ which lay against a stranger who had dispossessed the demandant of land of which his grandfather died seized. 

AYME:  The utterance of the ejaculation "Ay me !" [Obs.] See Ay, interj. "Aymees and hearty heigh-hoes." J. Fletcher. 

AYOND:  Beyond. [North of Eng.] 

AYONT:  Beyond. [Scot.]  AYRIE; AYRY A"y*rie, A"y*ry, n.  See Aerie. Drayton. 

AYRSHIRE:  One of a superior breed of cattle from Ayrshire, Scotland. Ayrshires are notable for the quantity and quality of their milk. 

AYUNTAMIENTO:  In Spain and Spanish America, a corporation or body of magistrates in cities and towns, corresponding to mayor and aldermen. 

AZALEA:  A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China or of North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinct from Rhododendron. 

AZAROLE:  The Neapolitan medlar (Cratægus azarolus), a shrub of southern Europe; also, its fruit. 

AZEDARACH:  A handsome Asiatic tree (Melia azedarach), common in the southern United States; -- called also, Pride of India, Pride of China, and Bead tree.  2. (Med.)  The bark of the roots of the azedarach, used as a cathartic and emetic. 

AZIMUTHAL:  Of or pertaining to the azimuth; in a horizontal circle. Azimuthal error of a transit instrument, its deviation in azimuth from the plane of the meridian.  AZO- Az"o-. Etym: [See Azote.] (Chem.)  A combining form of azote; (a) Applied loosely to compounds having nitrogen variously combined, as in cyanides, nitrates, etc. (b) Now especially applied to compounds containing a two atom nitrogen group uniting two hydrocarbon radicals, as in azobenzene, azobenzoic, etc. These compounds furnish many artificial dyes. See Diazo-. 

AZOBENZENE:  A substance (C6H5.N2.C6H5) derived from nitrobenzene, forming orange red crystals which are easily fusible. 

AZOGUE:  Lit.: Quicksilver; hence: pl. (Mining)  Silver ores suitable for treatment by amalgamation with mercury. [Sp. Amer.] 

AZOIC:  Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animal life; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there was no animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks. Azoic age (Geol.), the age preceding the existence of animal life, or anterior to the paleozoic tome. Azoic is also used as a noun, age being understood. See Archæan, and Eozoic. 

AZOLE:  Any of a large class of compounds characterized by a five- membered ring which contains an atom of nitrogen and at least one other noncarbon atom (nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur). The prefixes furo-, thio, and pyrro-are used to distinguish three subclasses of azoles, which may be regarded as derived respectively from furfuran, thiophene, and pyrrol by replacement of the CH group by nitrogen; as, furo-monazole. Names exactly analogous to those for the azines are also used; as, oxazole, diazole, etc. 

AZOLEIC:  Pertaining to an acid produced by treating oleic with nitric acid. [R.] 

AZONIC:  Confined to no zone or region; not local. 

AZORIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Azores.  -- n.  A native of the Azores. 

AZOTE:  Same as Nitrogen. [R.] 

AZOTED:  Nitrogenized; nitrogenous. 

AZOTIC:  Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting of azote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid. [R.] Carpenter.  AZOTINE; AZOTIN Az"o*tine, Az"o*tin, n. [Azote + -ine.]  1.  An explosive consisting of sodium nitrate, charcoal, sulphur, and petroleum.  2.  = 1st Ammonite, 2. 

AZOTITE:  A salt formed by the combination of azotous, or nitrous, acid with a base; a nitrite. [R.] 

AZOTIZE:  To impregnate with azote, or nitrogen; to nitrogenize. 

AZOTOMETER:  An apparatus for measuring or determining the proportion of nitrogen; a nitrometer. 

AZOTOUS:  : Nitrous; as, azotous acid. [R.] 

AZOTURIA:  Excess of urea or other nitrogenous substances in the urine. 

AZTEC:  Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico that inhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of the Spanish conquest in 1519.  -- n.  One of the Aztec race or people. 

AZURE:  Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky; cerulean; also, cloudless. Azure stone (Min.), the lapis lazuli; also, the lazulite. 

AZURE:  A blue color, represented in engraving by horizontal parallel lines. 

AZURE:  To color blue. 

AZURED:  Of an azure color; sky-blue. "The azured harebell." Shak. 

AZUREOUS:  Of a fine blue color; azure. 

AZURINE:  Azure. 

AZURINE:  The blue roach of Europe (Leuciscus cæruleus); -- so called from its color. 

AZURITE:  Blue carbonate of copper; blue malachite. 

AZURN:  Azure. [Obs.] Thick set with agate, and the azurn sheen Of turkis blue, and emerald green. Milton. 

AZYGOUS:  Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, the azygous muscle of the uvula.  AZYM; AZYME Az"ym, Az"yme, n. Etym: [F. azyme unleavened, L. azymus, fr. Gr.  Unleavened bread. 

AZYMIC:  Azymous. 

AZYMITE:  One who administered the Eucharist with unleavened bread; -- a name of reproach given by those of the Greek church to the Latins. 

AZYMOUS:  Unleavened; unfermented. "Azymous bread." Dunglison. 

B:  is the second letter of the English alphabet. (See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 196,220.) It is etymologically related to p , v , f , w and m , letters representing sounds having a close organic affinity to its own sound; as in Eng. bursar and purser; Eng. bear and Lat. pear; Eng. silver and Ger. silber; Lat. cubitum and It. gomito; Eng. seven, Anglo-Saxon seofon, Ger. sieben, Lat. septem, Gr.ptan. The form of letter B is Roman, from Greek B (Beta), of Semitic origin. The small b was formed by gradual change from the capital B.  Note: In Music, B is the nominal of the seventh tone in the model major scale (the scale of C major ), or of the second tone in it's relative minor scale (that of A minor ) . B stands for B flat, the tone a half step , or semitone, lower than B. In German, B stands for our B, while our B natural is called H (pronounced hä). 

BA:  To kiss. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BAA:  To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep. He treble baas for help, but none can get. Sir P. Sidney. 

BAA:  The cry or bleating of a sheep; a bleat. 

BAAING:  The bleating of a sheep. Marryat. 

BAAL:  The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitish nations.  Note: The name of this god occurs in the Old Testament and elsewhere with qualifying epithets subjoined, answering to the different ideas of his character; as, Baal-berith (the Covenant Baal), Baal-zebub (Baal of the fly).  2. pl.  The whole class of divinities to whom the name Baal was applied. Judges x. 6. 

BAALISM:  Worship of Baal; idolatry.  BAALIST; BAALITE Ba"al*ist, Ba"al*ite, n.  A worshiper of Baal; a devotee of any false religion; an idolater. 

BAB:  Lit., gate; -- a title given to the founder of Babism, and taken from that of Bab-ud-Din, assumed by him. 

BABA:  A kind of plum cake. 

BABBITT:  To line with Babbitt metal.  BABBITT METAL Bab"bitt met`al. Etym: [From the inventor, Isaac Babbitt of Massachusetts.]  A soft white alloy of variable composition (as a nine parts of tin to one of copper, or of fifty parts of tin to five of antimony and one of copper) used in bearings to diminish friction. 

BABBLEMENT:  Babble. Hawthorne. 

BABBLER:  A name given to any one of family (Timalinæ) of thrushlike birds, having a chattering note. 

BABBLERY:  Babble. [Obs.] Sir T. More 

BABEHOOD:  Babyhood. [R.] Udall. 

BABERY:  Finery of a kind to please a child. [Obs.] "Painted babery." Sir P. Sidney.  BABIAN; BABION Ba"bi*an, Ba"bi*on, n. Etym: [See Baboon]  A baboon. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BABILLARD:  The lesser whitethroat of Europe; -- called also babbling warbler. 

BABINGTONITE:  A mineral occurring in triclinic crystals approaching pyroxene in angle, and of a greenish black color. It is a silicate of iron, manganese, and lime.  BABIROUSSA; BABIRUSSA Bab`i*rous"sa, Bab`i*rus"sa (, n. Etym: [F. babiroussa, fr.Malay babi hog + r deer.] (Zoöl.)  A large hoglike quadruped (Sus, or Porcus, babirussa) of the East Indies, sometimes domesticated; the Indian hog. Its upper canine teeth or tusks are large and recurved. 

BABISH:  Like a babe; a childish; babyish. [R.] "Babish imbecility." Drayton.  -- Bab"ish*ly, adv.  -- Bab"ish*ness, n. [R.] 

BABISM:  The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated in Persia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish and Parsee elements.  BABISM; BABIISM Bab"ism, Bab"i*ism, n.  The doctrine of a modern religious pantheistical sect in Persia, which was founded, about 1844, by Mirza Ali Mohammed ibn Rabhik (1820 -- 1850), who assumed the title of Bab-ed-Din (Per., Gate of the Faith). Babism is a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish, and Parsi elements. This doctrine forbids concubinage and polygamy, and frees women from many of the degradations imposed upon them among the orthodox Mohammedans. Mendicancy, the use of intoxicating liquors and drugs, and slave dealing, are forbidden; asceticism is discountenanced. --Bab"ist, n. 

BABIST:  A believer in Babism. 

BABLAH:  The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia; neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeing drab.  BABOO; BABU Ba"boo, Ba"bu, n. Etym: [Hind. bab ]  A Hindoo gentleman; native clerk who writes English; also, a Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire. Whitworth. 

BABOON:  One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus and Papio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and large canine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities on the buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, and Drill an ape. 

BABOONERY:  Baboonish behavior. Marryat. 

BABOONISH:  Like a baboon.  BABUL; BABOOL Ba*bul", Ba*bool", n. [See Bablah.] (Bot.)  Any one of several species of Acacia, esp. A. Arabica, which yelds a gum used as a substitute for true gum arabic.  In place of Putney's golden gorse The sickly babul blooms. Kipling. 

BABY:  An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.  2. A small image of an infant; a doll. Babies in the eyes, the minute reflection which one sees of one's self in the eyes of another. She clung about his neck, gave him ten kisses, Toyed with his locks, looked babies in his eyes. Heywood. 

BABY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, an infant; young or little; as, baby swans. "Baby figure" Shak. 

BABY:  To treat like a young child; to keep dependent; to humor; to fondle. Young.  BABY FARM Ba"by farm`.  A place where the nourishment and care of babies are offered for hire.  BABY FARMER Ba"by farm`er.  One who keeps a baby farm.  BABY FARMING Ba"by farm`ing.  The business of keeping a baby farm. 

BABYHOOD:  The state or period of infancy. 

BABYHOUSE:  A place for children's dolls and dolls' furniture. Swift. 

BABYISH:  Like a baby; childish; puerile; simple.  -- Ba"by*ish*ly, adv.  -- Ba"by*ish*ness, n. 

BABYISM:  A hoop suspended by an elastic strap, in which a young child may be held secure while amusing itself by jumping on the floor. 

BABYLONIAN:  Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or to the ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean. 

BABYLONISH:  See Babyroussa. 

BABYSHIP:  The quality of being a baby; the personality of an infant. 

BACCALAUREATE:  Pertaining to a bachelor of arts. Baccalaureate sermon, in some American colleges, a sermon delivered as a farewell discourse to a graduating class.  BACCARA; BACCARAT Bac`ca*ra", Bac`ca*rat", n. Etym: [F.]  A French game of cards, played by a banker and punters.  BACCARE; BACKARE Bac*ca"re, Bac*ka"re, interj.  Stand back! give place! -- a cant word of the Elizabethan writers, probably in ridicule of some person who pretended to a knowledge of Latin which he did not possess. Baccare! you are marvelous forward. Shak. 

BACCATE:  Pulpy throughout, like a berry; -- said of fruits. Gray. 

BACCHANAL:  The festival of Bacchus; the bacchanalia.  3. Drunken revelry; an orgy.  4. A song or dance in honor of Bacchus. 

BACCHANALIA:  A feast or an orgy in honor of Bacchus.  2. Hence: A drunken feast; drunken reveler. 

BACCHANALIAN:  Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to or given to reveling and drunkenness. Even bacchanalian madness has its charms. Cowper. 

BACCHANALIAN:  A bacchanal; a drunken reveler. 

BACCHANALIANISM:  The practice of bacchanalians; bacchanals; drunken revelry. 

BACCHANT:  Bacchanalian; fond of drunken revelry; wine-loving; reveling; carousing. Byron. 

BACCHANTIC:  Bacchanalian.  BACCHIC; BACCHICAL Bac"chic, Bac"chic*al, a. Etym: [L. Bacchicus, Gr.  Of or relating to Bacchus; hence, jovial, or riotous,with intoxication. 

BACCHIUS:  A metrical foot composed of a short syllable and two long ones; according to some, two long and a short. 

BACCHUS:  The god of wine, son of Jupiter and Semele. 

BACCIFEROUS:  Producing berries. " Bacciferous trees." Ray. 

BACCIFORM:  Having the form of a berry. 

BACCIVOROUS:  Eating, or subsisting on, berries; as, baccivorous birds. 

BACE:  See Base. [Obs.] Spenser.  BACHARACH; BACKARACK Bach"a*rach, Back"a*rack, n.  A kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine. 

BACHELOR:  A kind of bass, an edible fresh-water fish (Pomoxys annularis) of the southern United States. 

BACHELORDOM:  The state of bachelorhood; the whole body of bachelors. 

BACHELORHOOD:  The state or condition of being a bachelor; bachelorship. 

BACHELORISM:  Bachelorhood; also, a manner or peculiarity belonging to bachelors. W. Irving.  BACHELOR'S BUTTON Bach"e*lor's but"ton  , (Bot.) A plant with flowers shaped like buttons; especially, several species of Ranunculus, and the cornflower (Centaures cyanus) and globe amaranth (Gomphrena).  Note: Bachelor's buttons, a name given to several flowers "from their similitude to the jagged cloathe buttons, anciently worne in this kingdom", according to Johnson's Gerarde, p.472 (1633); but by other writers ascribed to "a habit of country fellows to carry them in their pockets to divine their success with their sweethearts." Dr. Prior. 

BACHELORSHIP:  The state of being a bachelor. 

BACHELRY:  The body of young aspirants for knighthood. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BACILLAR:  Shaped like a rod or staff. 

BACILLARIAE:  See Diatom. 

BACILLARY:  Of or pertaining to little rods; rod-shaped. 

BACILLIFORM:  Rod-shaped. 

BACILLUS:  A variety of bacterium; a microscopic, rod-shaped vegetable organism. 

BACK:  The keel and keelson of a ship.  9. (Mining)  The upper part of a lode, or the roof of a horizontal underground passage.  10. A garment for the back; hence, clothing. A bak to walken inne by daylight. Chaucer. Behind one's back, when one is absent; without one's knowledge; as, to ridicule a person behind his back.  -- Full back, Half back, Quarter back (Football), players stationed behind those in the front line.  -- To be or lie on one's back, to be helpless.  -- To put, or get, one's back up, to assume an attitude of obstinate resistance (from the action of a cat when attacked.). [Colloq.] -- To see the back of, to get rid of.  -- To turn the back, to go away; to flee.  -- To turn the back on one, to forsake or neglect him. 

BACK:  To change from one quarter to another by a course opposite to that of the sun; -- used of the wind.  3. (Sporting)  To stand still behind another dog which has poined; -- said of a dog. [Eng.] To back and fill, to manage the sails of a ship so that the wind strikes them alternately in front and behind, in order to keep the ship in the middle of a river or channel while the current or tide carries the vessel against the wind. Hence: (Fig.) To take opposite positions alternately; to assert and deny. [Colloq.] -- To back out, To back down, to retreat or withdraw from a promise, engagement, or contest; to recede. [Colloq.] Cleon at first . . . was willing to go; but, finding that he [Nicias] was in earnest, he tried to back out. Jowett (Thucyd. ) 

BACKARACK:  See Bacharach. 

BACKARE:  Same as Baccare. 

BACKBAND:  The band which passes over the back of a horse and holds up the shafts of a carriage. 

BACKBITE:  To wound by clandestine detraction; to censure meanly or spitefully (as absent person); to slander or speak evil of (one absent). Spenser. 

BACKBITE:  To censure or revile the absent. They are arrant knaves, and will backbite. Shak. 

BACKBITER:  One who backbites; a secret calumniator or detractor. 

BACKBITING:  Secret slander; detraction. Backbiting, and bearing of false witness. Piers Plowman. 

BACKBOND:  An instrument which, in conjunction with another making an absolute disposition, constitutes a trust. 

BACKBONED:  Vertebrate. 

BACKCAST:  Anything which brings misfortune upon one, or causes failure in an effort or enterprise; a reverse. [Scot.]  BACK DOOR Back" door".  A door in the back part of a building; hence, an indirect way. Atterbury. 

BACKDOOR:  Acting from behind and in concealment; as backdoor intrigues. 

BACKDOWN:  A receding or giving up; a complete surrender. [Colloq.] 

BACKED:  Having a back; fitted with a back; as, a backed electrotype or stereotype plate. Used in composition; as, broad- backed; hump- backed. 

BACKER:  One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs a person or thing in a contest. 

BACKFALL:  A fall or throw on the back in wrestling.  BACK FIRE Back fire.  (a) A fire started ahead of a forest or prairie fire to burn only against the wind, so that when the two fires meet both must go out for lack of fuel.  (b) A premature explosion in the cylinder of a gas or oil engine during the exhaust or the compression stroke, tending to drive the piston in a direction reverse to that in which it should travel; also, an explosion in the exhaust passages of such ah engine.  BACK-FIRE Back"-fire`, v. i.  1. (Engin.)  To have or experience a back fire or back fires; -- said of an internal-combustion engine.  2.  Of a Bunsen or similar air-fed burner, to light so that the flame proceeds from the internal gas jet instead of from the external jet of mixed gas and air. -- Back"-fir`ing, n. 

BACKFRIEND:  A secret enemy. [Obs.] South. 

BACKGAMMON:  A game of chance and skill, played by two persons on a "board" marked off into twenty-four spaces called "points". Each player has fifteen pieces, or "men", the movements of which from point to point are determined by throwing dice. Formerly called tables. Backgammon board , a board for playing backgammon, often made in the form of two rectangular trays hinged together, each tray containing two "tables". 

BACKGAMMON:  In the game of backgammon, to beat by ending the game before the loser is clear of his first "table". 

BACKGROUND:  The space which is behind and subordinate to a portrait or group of figures.  Note: The distance in a picture is usually divided into foreground, middle distance, and background. Fairholt.  3. Anything behind, serving as a foil; as, the statue had a background of red hangings.  4. A place in obscurity or retirement, or out of sight. I fancy there was a background of grinding and waiting before Miss Torry could produce this highly finished . . . performance. Mrs. Alexander. A husband somewhere in the background. Thackeray. 

BACKHAND:  A kind of handwriting in which the downward slope of the letters is from left to right. 

BACKHANDEDNESS:  State of being backhanded; the using of backhanded or indirect methods. 

BACKHANDER:  A backhanded blow. 

BACKHEEL:  A method of tripping by getting the leg back of the opponent's heel on the outside and pulling forward while pushing his body back; a throw made in this way. -- v. t.  To trip (a person) in this way. 

BACKHOUSE:  A building behind the main building. Specifically: A privy; a necessary. 

BACKING:  The preparation of the back of a book with glue, etc., before putting on the cover. 

BACKJOINT:  A rebate or chase in masonry left to receive a permanent slab or other filling. 

BACKLASH:  The distance through which one part of connected machinery, as a wheel, piston, or screw, can be moved without moving the connected parts, resulting from looseness in fitting or from wear; also, the jarring or reflex motion caused in badly fitting machinery by irregularities in velocity or a reverse of motion. 

BACKLESS:  Without a back. 

BACKLOG:  A large stick of wood, forming the of a fire on the hearth. [U.S.] There was first a backlog, from fifteen to four and twenty inches in diameter and five feet long, imbedded in the ashes. S. G. Goodrich.  BACKPIECE; BACKPLATE Back"piece`, Back"plate`, n. Etym: [Back,n.or a. + piece, plate. ]  A piece, or plate which forms the back of anything, or which covers the back; armor for the back.  BACKRACK; BACKRAG Back"rack, Back"rag, n.  See Bacharach. 

BACKS:  Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides. 

BACKSAW:  A saw (as a tenon saw) whose blade is stiffened by an added metallic back. 

BACKSET:  To plow again, in the fall; -- said of prairie land broken up in the spring. [Western U.S.] 

BACKSETTLER:  One living in the back or outlying districts of a community. The English backsettlers of Leinster and Munster. Macaulay.  BACKSHEESH; BACKSHISH Back"sheesh`, Back"shish`, n. Etym: [Pers. bakhshish, fr. bakhshidan to give.]  In Egypt and the Turkish empire, a gratuity; a "tip". 

BACKSIDE:  The hinder part, posteriors, or rump of a person or animal.  Note: Backside (one word) was formerly used of the rear part or side of any thing or place, but in such senses is now two words. 

BACKSIGHT:  The reading of the leveling staff in its unchanged position when the leveling instrument has been taken to a new position; a sight directed backwards to a station previously occupied. Cf. Foresight, n., 3. 

BACKSLIDE:  To slide back; to fall away; esp. to abandon gradually the faith and practice of a religion that has been professed. 

BACKSLIDER:  One who backslides. 

BACKSLIDING:  Slipping back; falling back into sin or error; sinning. Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord. Jer. iii. 14. 

BACKSLIDING:  The act of one who backslides; abandonment of faith or duty. Our backslidings are many. Jer. xiv. 7. 

BACKSTAFF:  An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of the heavenly bodies, but now superseded by the quadrant and sextant; -- so called because the observer turned his back to the body observed.  BACK STAIRS Back" stairs`.  Stairs in the back part of a house, as distinguished from the front stairs; hence, a private or indirect way.  BACKSTAIRS; BACKSTAIR Back"stairs`, Back"stair`, a.  Private; indirect; secret; intriguing; as if finding access by the back stairs. A backstairs influence. Burke. Female caprice and backstairs influence. Trevelyan. 

BACKSTAY:  A rope or stay extending from the masthead to the side of a ship, slanting a little aft, to assist the shrouds in supporting the mast. [ Often used in the plural.]  2. A rope or strap used to prevent excessive forward motion. 

BACKSTER:  A backer. [Obs.] 

BACKSTITCH:  A stitch made by setting the needle back of the end of the last stitch, and bringing it out in front of the end. 

BACKSTITCH:  To sew with backstitches; as, to backstitch a seam. 

BACKSTRESS:  A female baker. [Obs.] 

BACKWARD:  The state behind or past. [Obs.] In the dark backward and abysm of time. Shak. 

BACKWARD:  To keep back; to hinder. [Obs.] 

BACKWARDATION:  The seller's postponement of delivery of stock or shares, with the consent of the buyer, upon payment of a premium to the latter; -- also, the premium so paid. See Contango. Biddle. 

BACKWARDNESS:  The state of being backward. 

BACKWASH:  To clean the oil from (wood) after combing. 

BACKWOODS:  The forests or partly cleared grounds on the frontiers. 

BACKWOODSMAN:  A men living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements, especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of the United States. Fisher Ames. 

BACKWORM:  A disease of hawks. See Filanders. Wright. 

BACON:  The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, the flesh of a pig salted or fresh. Bacon beetle (Zoöl.), a beetle (Dermestes lardarius) which, especially in the larval state, feeds upon bacon, woolens, furs, etc. See Dermestes.  -- To save one's bacon, to save one's self or property from harm or less. [Colloq.] 

BACONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Lord Bacon, or to his system of philosophy. Baconian method, the inductive method. See Induction. 

BACTERIA:  See Bacterium. 

BACTERIAL:  Of or pertaining to bacteria. 

BACTERICIDAL:  Destructive of bacteria. 

BACTERICIDE:  Same as Germicide. 

BACTERIN:  A bacterial vaccine. 

BACTERIOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to bacteriology; as, bacteriological studies. 

BACTERIOLOGIST:  One skilled in bacteriology. 

BACTERIOLOGY:  The science relating to bacteria. 

BACTERIOSCOPIC:  Relating to bacterioscopy; as, a bacterioscopic examination. 

BACTERIOSCOPIST:  One skilled in bacterioscopic examinations. 

BACTERIOSCOPY:  The application of a knowledge of bacteria for their detection and identification, as in the examination of polluted water. 

BACTERIUM:  A microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algæ, usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found in putrefying organic infusions. Bacteria are destitute of chlorophyll, and are the smallest of microscopic organisms. They are very widely diffused in nature, and multiply with marvelous rapidity, both by fission and by spores. Certain species are active agents in fermentation, while others appear to be the cause of certain infectious diseases. See Bacillus.  BACTEROID; BACTEROIDAL Bac"te*roid, Bac`te*roid"al, a. Etym: [Bacterium + -oid.] (Biol.)  Resembling bacteria; as, bacteroid particles. 

BACTRIAN:  Of or pertaining to Bactria in Asia.  -- n.  A native of Bactria. Bactrian camel, the two-humped camel. 

BACULE:  See Bascule. 

BACULINE:  Of or pertaining to the rod or punishment with the rod. 

BACULITE:  A cephalopod of the extinct genus Baculites, found fossil in the Cretaceous rocks. It is like an uncoiled ammonite. 

BACULOMETRY:  Measurement of distance or altitude by a staff or staffs. 

BAD:  of Bid. Bade. [Obs.] Dryden. 

BAD:  Wanting good qualities, whether physical or moral; injurious, hurtful, inconvenient, offensive, painful, unfavorable, or defective, either physically or morally; evil; vicious; wicked; -- the opposite of good; as a bad man; bad conduct; bad habits; bad soil; bad health; bad crop; bad news.  Note: Sometimes used substantively. The strong antipathy of good to bad. Pope.  Syn.  -- Pernicious; deleterious; noxious; baneful; injurious; hurtful; evil; vile; wretched; corrupt; wicked; vicious; imperfect. 

BADAUD:  A person given to idle observation of everything, with wonder or astonishment; a credulous or gossipy idler.  A host of stories . . . dealing chiefly with the subject of his great wealth, an ever delightful topic to the badauds of Paris. Pall Mall Mag. 

BADDER:  compar. of Bad, a. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BADDERLOCKS:  A large black seaweed (Alaria esculenta) sometimes eaten in Europe; -- also called murlins, honeyware, and henware. 

BADDISH:  Somewhat bad; inferior. Jeffrey. 

BADE:  A form of the pat tense of Bid. 

BADGE:  A carved ornament on the stern of a vessel, containing a window or the representation of one. 

BADGE:  To mark or distinguish with a badge. 

BADGELESS:  Having no badge. Bp. Hall. 

BADGER:  An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; a hawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who bought grain in one place and sold it in another. [Now dialectic, Eng.] 

BADGERER:  The method of blackmailing by decoying a person into a compromising situation and extorting money by threats of exposure. [Cant] 

BADGERING:  Having legs of unequal length, as the badger was thought to have. Shak.  BADGER STATE Badger State.  Wisconsin; -- a nickname. 

BADIAGA:  A fresh-water sponge (Spongilla), common in the north of Europe, the powder of which is used to take away the livid marks of bruises. 

BADIAN:  An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illicium anisatum), and its aromatic seeds; Chinese anise; star anise. 

BADIGEON:  A cement or paste (as of plaster and freestone, or of sawdust and glue or lime) used by sculptors, builders, and workers in wood or stone, to fill holes, cover defects, or finish a surface. 

BADINAGE:  Playful raillery; banter. "He . . . indulged himself only in an elegant badinage." Warburton.  BAD LANDS Bad" lands".  Barren regions, especially in the western United States, where horizontal strata (Tertiary deposits) have been often eroded into fantastic forms, and much intersected by canons, and where lack of wood, water, and forage increases the difficulty of traversing the country, whence the name, first given by the Canadian French, Mauvaises Terres (bad lands). 

BADLY:  In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly; unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably; seriously.  Note: Badly is often used colloquially for very much or very greatly, with words signifying to want or need. 

BADNESS:  The state of being bad. 

BAENOMERE:  One of the somites (arthromeres) that make up the thorax of Arthropods. Packard. 

BAENOPOD:  One of the thoracic legs of Arthropods. 

BAENOSOME:  The thorax of Arthropods. Packard. 

BAETULUS:  A meteorite, or similar rude stone artificially shaped, held sacred or worshiped as of divine origin.  All the evidence goes to prove that these menhirs are bætuli, i. e., traditional and elementary images of the deity. I. Gonino (Perrot & Chipiez). 

BAFF:  A blow; a stroke. [Scot.] H. Miller. 

BAFFLE:  A defeat by artifice, shifts, and turns; discomfiture. [R.] "A baffle to philosophy." South. 

BAFFLEMENT:  The process or act of baffling, or of being baffled; frustration; check. 

BAFFLER:  One who, or that which, baffles. 

BAFFLING:  Frustrating; discomfiting; disconcerting; as, baffling currents, winds, tasks.  -- Bafflingly, adv.  -- Bafflingness, n. 

BAFFY:  A short wooden club having a deeply concave face, seldom used. 

BAFT:  Same as Bafta. 

BAFTA:  A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India. Also, an imitation of this fabric made for export. 

BAG:  A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary to carry to market in a sack; as, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag of coffee. Bag and baggage, all that belongs to one.  -- To give one the bag, to disappoint him. [Obs.] Bunyan. 

BAGASSE:  Sugar cane, as it 

BAGGAGE:  One who has charge of the baggage at a railway station or upon a line of public travel. [U.S.] 

BAGGAGER:  One who takes care of baggage; a camp follower. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

BAGGALA:  A two-masted Arab or Indian trading vessel, used in Indian Ocean. 

BAGGILY:  In a loose, baggy way. 

BAGGING:  Reaping peas, beans, wheat, etc., with a chopping stroke. [Eng.] 

BAGGY:  Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag; flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks. 

BAGMAN:  A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders for manufacturers and tradesmen. Thackeray.  BAG NET Bag" net`.  A bag-shaped net for catching fish. 

BAGPIPE:  A musical wind instrument, now used chiefly in the Highlands of Scotland.  Note: It consists of a leather bag, which receives the air by a tube that is stopped by a valve; and three sounding pipes, into which the air is pressed by the performer. Two of these pipes produce fixed tones, namely, the bass, or key tone, and its fifth, and form together what is called the drone; the third, or chanter, gives the melody. 

BAGPIPE:  To make to look like a bagpipe. To bagpipe the mizzen (Naut.), to lay it aback by bringing the sheet to the mizzen rigging. Totten. 

BAGPIPER:  One who plays on a bagpipe; a piper. Shak. 

BAGREEF:  The lower reef of fore and aft sails; also, the upper reef of topsails. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

BAGUE:  The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaft or clustered column into two or more parts.  BAGUET; BAGUETTE Ba*guet", Ba*guette", n. Etym: [F. baguette, prop. a rodbacchetta, fr. L. baculum, baculu stick, staff.]  1. (Arch.)  A small molding, like the astragal, but smaller; a bead.  2. (Zoöl)  One of the minute bodies seen in the divided nucleoli of some Infusoria after conjugation. 

BAGWIG:  A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back of the head in a bag. 

BAGWORM:  One of several lepidopterous insects which construct, in the larval state, a baglike case which they carry about for protection. One species (Platoeceticus Gloveri) feeds on the orange tree. See Basket worm. 

BAH:  An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt. Twenty-five years ago the vile ejaculation, Bah! was utterly unknown to the English public. De Quincey.  BAHADUR; BAHAUDUR Ba*ha"dur   Ba*hau"dur, n. [Written also bahawder.] [Hind. bahadur hero, champion.]  A title of respect or honor given to European officers in East Indian state papers, and colloquially, and among the natives, to distinguished officials and other important personages. 

BAHAI:  A member of the sect of the Babis consisting of the adherents of Baha (Mirza Husain Ali, entitled "Baha 'u 'llah," or, "the Splendor of God"), the elder half brother of Mirza Yahya of Nur, who succeeded the Bab as the head of the Babists. Baha in 1863 declared himself the supreme prophet of the sect, and became its recognized head. There are upwards of 20,000 Bahais in the United States. 

BAHAISM:  The religious tenets or practices of the Bahais. 

BAHAR:  A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varying considerably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625 pounds. 

BAIGNE:  To soak or drench. [Obs.] 

BAIGNOIRE:  A box of the lowest tier in a theater.  Du Maurier. 

BAIL:  A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat. [Obs.] The bail of a canoe . . . made of a human skull. Capt. Cook. 

BAIL:  A line of palisades serving as an exterior defense. [Written also bayle.] [Obs.]  2. The outer wall of a feudal castle. Hence: The space inclosed by it; the outer court. Holinshed.  3. A certain limit within a forest. [Eng.]  4. A division for the stalls of an open stable.  5. (Cricket)  The top or cross piece ( or either of the two cross pieces) of the wicket. 

BAILEE:  The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has a temporary possession and a qualified property in them, for the purposes of the trust. Blackstone.  Note: In penal statutes the word includes those who receive goods for another in good faith. Wharton. 

BAILER:  See Bailor. 

BAILIE:  An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded to that of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman. 

BAILIFF:  A sheriff's deputy, appointed to make arrests, collect fines, summon juries, etc.  Note: In American law the term bailiff is seldom used except sometimes to signify a sheriff's officer or constable, or a party liable to account to another for the rent and profits of real estate. Burrill.  3. An overseer or under steward of an estate, who directs husbandry operations, collects rents, etc. [Eng.] 

BAILIFFWICK:  See Bailiwick. [Obs.] 

BAILIWICK:  The precincts within which a bailiff has jurisdiction; the limits of a bailiff's authority. 

BAILMENT:  The action of bailing a person accused. Bailment . . . is the saving or delivery of a man out of prison before he hath satisfied the law. Dalton.  2. (Law)  A delivery of goods or money by one person to another in trust, for some special purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that the trust shall be faithfully executed. Blackstone.  Note: In a general sense it is sometimes used as comprehending all duties in respect to property. Story. 

BAILOR:  One who delivers goods or money to another in trust. 

BAILPIECE:  A piece of parchment, or paper, containing a recognizance or bail bond.  BAILY'S BEADS Bai"ly's beads. (Astron.)  A row of bright spots observed in connection with total eclipses of the sun. Just before and after a total eclipse, the slender, unobscured crescent of the sun's disk appears momentarily like a row of bright spots resembling a string of beads. The phenomenon (first fully described by Francis Baily, 1774 -- 1844) is thought to be an effect of irradiation, and of inequalities of the moon's edge. 

BAIN:  A bath; a bagnio. [Obs.] Holland.  BAIN-MARIE Bain`-ma`rie", n. Etym: [F.]  A vessel for holding hot water in which another vessel may be heated without scorching its contents; -- used for warming or preparing food or pharmaceutical preparations. 

BAIRAM:  The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held at the close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy days after the fast. 

BAIRN:  A child. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Has he not well provided for the bairn ! Beau. & Fl. 

BAISEMAINS:  Respects; compliments. [Obs.] 

BAIT:  To stop to take a portion of food and drink for refreshment of one's self or one's beasts, on a journey. Evil news rides post, while good news baits. Milton. My lord's coach conveyed me to Bury, and thence baiting aEvelyn. 

BAIT:  To flap the wings; to flutter as if to fly; or to hover, as a hawk when she stoops to her prey. "Kites that bait and beat." Shak. 

BAITER:  One who baits; a tormentor. 

BAIZE:  A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain colors. A new black baize waistcoat lined with silk. Pepys. 

BAJOCCO:  A small cooper coin formerly current in the Roman States, worth about a cent and a half. 

BAKE:  The process, or result, of baking. 

BAKEHOUSE:  A house for baking; a bakery.  BAKEMEAT; BAKED-MEAT Bake"meat`, Baked"-meat`, n.  A pie; baked food. [Obs.] Gen. xl. 17. Shak. 

BAKEN:  p. p. of Bake. [Obs. or. Archaic] 

BAKER:  Having legs that bend inward at the knees. 

BAKINGLY:  In a hot or baking manner. 

BAKISTRE:  A baker. [Obs.] Chaucer.  BAKSHEESH; BAKSHISH Bak"sheesh`, Bak"shish`, n.  Same as Backsheesh. 

BALAAM:  A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out a newspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's ass speaking. Numb. xxii. 30. [Cant] Balaam basket or box (Print.), the receptacle for rejected articles. Blackw. Mag. 

BALACHONG:  A condiment formed of small fishes or shrimps, pounded up with salt and spices, and then dried. It is much esteemed in China. 

BALAENOIDEA:  A division of the Cetacea, including the right whale and all other whales having the mouth fringed with baleen. See Baleen. 

BALANCE:  A balance wheel, as of a watch, or clock. See Balance wheel (in the Vocabulary).  7. (Astron.) (a) The constellation Libra. (b) The seventh sign in the Zodiac, called Libra, which the sun enters at the equinox in September.  8. A movement in dancing. See Balance, v. i., S. Balance electrometer, a kind of balance, with a poised beam, which indicates, by weights suspended from one arm, the mutual attraction of oppositely electrified surfaces. Knight.  -- Balance fish. (Zoöl) See Hammerhead.  -- Balance knife, a carving or table knife the handle of which overbalances the blade, and so keeps it from contact with the table.  -- Balance of power. (Politics), such an adjustment of power among sovereign states that no one state is in a position to interfere with the independence of the others; international equilibrium; also, the ability ( of a state or a third party within a state) to control the relations between sovereign states or between dominant parties in a state.  -- Balance sheet (Bookkeeping), a paper showing the balances of the open accounts of a business, the debit and credit balances footing up equally, if the system of accounts be complete and the balances correctly taken.  -- Balance thermometer, a thermometer mounted as a balance so that the movement of the mercurial column changes the indication of the tube. With the aid of electrical or mechanical devices adapted to it, it is used for the automatic regulation of the temperature of rooms warmed artificially, and as a fire alarm.  -- Balance of torsion. See Torsion Balance.  -- Balance of trade (Pol. Econ.), an equilibrium between the money values of the exports and imports of a country; or more commonly, the amount required on one side or the other to make such an equilibrium.  -- Balance valve, a valve whose surfaces are so arranged that the fluid pressure tending to seat, and that tending to unseat the valve, are nearly in equilibrium; esp., a puppet valve which is made to operate easily by the admission of steam to both sides. See Puppet valve.  -- Hydrostatic balance. See under Hydrostatic.  -- To lay in balance, to put up as a pledge or security. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- To strike a balance, to find out the difference between the debit and credit sides of an account. 

BALANCE:  To move toward, and then back from, reciprocally; as, to balance partners.  9. (Naut.)  To contract, as a sail, into a narrower compass; as, to balance the boom mainsail. Balanced valve. See Balance valve, under Balance, n.  Syn.  -- To poise; weigh; adjust; counteract; neutralize; equalize. 

BALANCE:  To move toward a person or couple, and then back. 

BALANCEABLE:  Such as can be balanced. 

BALANCEMENT:  The act or result of balancing or adjusting; equipoise; even adjustment of forces. [R.] Darwin. 

BALANCER:  In Diptera, the rudimentary posterior wing. 

BALANCEREEF:  The last reef in a fore-and-aft sail, taken to steady the ship.  BALANCE WHEEL Bal"ance wheel`.  1. (Horology) (a) A wheel which regulates the beats or pulses of a watch or chronometer, answering to the pendulum of a clock; -- often called simply a balance. (b) A ratchet-shaped scape wheel, which in some watches is acted upon by the axis of the balance wheel proper (in those watches called a balance).  2. (Mach.)  A wheel which imparts regularity to the movements of any engine or machine; a fly wheel. 

BALANIFEROUS:  Bearing or producing acorns. 

BALANITE:  A fossil balanoid shell. 

BALANOGLOSSUS:  A peculiar marine worm. See Enteropneusta, and Tornaria. 

BALANOID:  Resembling an acorn; -- applied to a group of barnacles having shells shaped like acorns. See Acornshell, and Barnacle.  BALAS RUBY Bal"as ru`by. Etym: [OE. bales, balais, F. balais, LL. balascus, fr. Ar. balakhsh, so called from Badakhshan, Balashan, or Balaxiam, a place in the neighborhood of Samarcand, where this ruby is found.] (Min.)  A variety of spinel ruby, of a pale rose red, or inclining to orange. See Spinel. 

BALATA:  A West Indian sapotaceous tree (Bumelia retusa).  2.  The bully tree (Minusops globosa); also, its milky juice (balata gum), which when dried constitutes an elastic gum called chicle, or chicle gum. 

BALAUSTINE:  The pomegranate tree (Punica granatum). The bark of the root, the rind of the fruit, and the flowers are used medicinally. 

BALAYEUSE:  A protecting ruffle or frill, as of silk or lace, sewed close to the lower edge of a skirt on the inside.  BALBUTIATE; BALBUCINATE Bal*bu"ti*ate, Bal*bu"ci*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. balbutire, fr. balbus stammering: cf. F. balbutier.]  To stammer. [Obs.] 

BALBUTIES:  The defect of stammering; also, a kind of incomplete pronunciation. 

BALCON:  A balcony. [Obs.] Pepys. 

BALCONIED:  Having balconies. 

BALCONY:  A platform projecting from the wall of a building, usually resting on brackets or consoles, and inclosed by a parapet; as, a balcony in front of a window. Also, a projecting gallery in places of amusement; as, the balcony in a theater.  2. A projecting gallery once common at the stern of large ships.  Note: "The accent has shifted from the second to the first syllable within these twenty years." Smart (1836). 

BALD:  Destitute of a beard or awn; as, bald wheat.  6. (Zoöl.) (a) Destitute of the natural covering. (b) Marked with a white spot on the head; bald-faced. Bald buzzard (Zoöl.), the fishhawk or osprey.  -- Bald coot (Zoöl.), a name of the European coot (Fulica atra), alluding to the bare patch on the front of the head. 

BALDACHIN:  A structure in form of a canopy, sometimes supported by columns, and sometimes suspended from the roof or projecting from the wall; generally placed over an altar; as, the baldachin in St. Peter's.  3. A portable canopy borne over shrines, etc., in procession. [Written also baldachino, baldaquin, etc.]  BALD EAGLE Bald" ea"gle. (Zoöl.)  The white-headed eagle (Haliæetus leucocephalus) of America. The young, until several years old, lack the white feathers on the head.  Note: The bald eagle is represented in the coat of arms, and on the coins, of the United States. 

BALDER:  The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace; the son of Odin and Freya. [Written also Baldur.] 

BALDERDASH:  To mix or adulterate, as liquors. The wine merchants of Nice brew and balderdash, and even mix it with pigeon's dung and quicklime. Smollett.  BALD-FACED Bald"-faced`, a.  Having a white face or a white mark on the face, as a stag. 

BALDHEAD:  A white-headed variety of pigeon. 

BALDHEADED:  Having a bald head. 

BALDLY:  Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly. 

BALDNESS:  The state or condition of being bald; as, baldness of the head; baldness of style. This gives to their syntax a peculiar character of simplicity and baldness. W. D. Whitney. 

BALDPATE:  The American widgeon (Anas Americana).  BALDPATE; BALDPATED Bald"pate`, Bald"pat`ed, a.  Destitute of hair on the head; baldheaded. Shak. 

BALDRIB:  A piece of pork cut lower down than the sparerib, and destitute of fat. [Eng.] Southey. 

BALDRIC:  A broad belt, sometimes richly ornamented, worn over one shoulder, across the breast, and under the opposite arm; less properly, any belt. [Also spelt bawdrick.] A radiant baldric o'er his shoulder tied Sustained the sword that glittered at his side. Pope. 

BALDWIN:  A kind of reddish, moderately acid, winter apple. [U.S.] 

BALE:  A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded for storage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw Bale of dice, a pair of dice. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BALE:  To make up in a bale. Goldsmith. 

BALE:  See Bail, v. t., to lade. 

BALEARIC:  Of or pertaining to the isles of Majorca, Minorca, Ivica, etc., in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Valencia. Balearic crane. (Zoöl.) See Crane. 

BALEEN:  Plates or blades of "whalebone," from two to twelve feet long, and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balænoidea) are attached side by side along the upper jaw, and form a fringelike sieve by which the food is retained in the mouth. 

BALEFIRE:  A signal fire; an alarm fire. Sweet Teviot! on thy silver tide The glaring balefires blaze no more. Sir W. Scott. 

BALEFULLY:  In a baleful manner; perniciously. 

BALEFULNESS:  The quality or state of being baleful. 

BALISAUR:  A badgerlike animal of India (Arcionyx collaris). 

BALISTER:  A crossbow. [Obs.] Blount. 

BALISTOID:  Like a fish of the genus Balistes; of the family Balistidæ. See Filefish. 

BALISTRARIA:  A narrow opening, often cruciform, through which arrows might be discharged. 

BALIZE:  A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark. 

BALK:  One of the beams connecting the successive supports of a trestle bridge or bateau bridge.  4. A hindrance or disappointment; a check. A balk to the confidence of the bold undertaker. South.  5. A sudden and obstinate stop; a failure.  6. (Baseball)  A deceptive gesture of the pitcher, as if to deliver the ball. Balk line (Billiards), a line across a billiard table near one end, marking a limit within which the cue balls are placed in beginning a game; also, a line around the table, parallel to the sides, used in playing a particular game, called the balk line game. 

BALK:  To indicate to fishermen, by shouts or signals from shore, the direction taken by the shoals of herring. 

BALKER:  One who, or that which balks. 

BALKER:  A person who stands on a rock or eminence to espy the shoals of herring, etc., and to give notice to the men in boats which way they pass; a conder; a huer. 

BALKINGLY:  In manner to balk or frustrate. 

BALKISH:  Uneven; ridgy. [R.] Holinshed. 

BALKY:  Apt to balk; as, a balky horse. 

BALL:  A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled with combustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or to produce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball.  6. (Print.)  A leather-covered cushion, fastened to a handle called a ballstock; -- formerly used by printers for inking the form, but now superseded by the roller.  7. A roundish protuberant portion of some part of the body; as, the ball of the thumb; the ball of the foot.  8. (Far.)  A large pill, a form in which medicine is commonly given to horses; a bolus. White.  9. The globe or earth. Pope. Move round the dark terrestrial ball. Addison. Ball and socket joint, a joint in which a ball moves within a socket, so as to admit of motion in every direction within certain limits.  -- Ball bearings, a mechanical device for lessening the friction of axle bearings by means of small loose metal balls.  -- Ball cartridge, a cartridge containing a ball, as distinguished from a blank cartridge, containing only powder.  -- Ball cock, a faucet or valve which is opened or closed by the fall or rise of a ball floating in water at the end of a lever.  -- Ball gudgeon, a pivot of a spherical form, which permits lateral deflection of the arbor or shaft, while retaining the pivot in its socket. Knight.  -- Ball lever, the lever used in a ball cock.  -- Ball of the eye, the eye itself, as distinguished from its lids and socket; -- formerly, the pupil of the eye.  -- Ball valve (Mach.), a contrivance by which a ball, placed in a circular cup with a hole in its bottom, operates as a valve.  -- Ball vein (Mining), a sort of iron ore, found in loose masses of a globular form, containing sparkling particles.  -- Three balls, or Three golden balls, a pawnbroker's sign or shop.  Syn.  -- See Globe. 

BALL:  To gather balls which cling to the feet, as of damp snow or clay; to gather into balls; as, the horse balls; the snow balls. 

BALL:  To heat in a furnace and form into balls for rolling.  2. To form or wind into a ball; as, to ball cotton. 

BALL:  A social assembly for the purpose of dancing. 

BALLAD:  A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation or singing; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental or romantic poem in short stanzas. 

BALLAD:  To make or sing ballads. [Obs.] 

BALLAD:  To make mention of in ballads. [Obs.] 

BALLADE:  A form of French versification, sometimes imitated in English, in which three or four rhymes recur through three stanzas of eight or ten lines each, the stanzas concluding with a refrain, and the whole poem with an envoy. 

BALLADER:  A writer of ballads.  BALLAD MONGER Bal"lad mon`ger. Etym: [See Monger.]  A seller or maker of ballads; a poetaster. Shak. 

BALLADRY:  Ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads. "Base balladry is so beloved." Drayton.  BALLAHOO; BALLAHOU Bal"la*hoo, Bal"la*hou, n.  A fast-sailing schooner, used in the Bermudas and West Indies. 

BALLARAG:  To bully; to threaten. [Low] T. Warton. 

BALLAST:  Any heavy substance, as stone, iron, etc., put into the hold to sink a vessel in the water to such a depth as to prevent capsizing.  2. Any heavy matter put into the car of a balloon to give it steadiness.  3. Gravel, broken stone, etc., laid in the bed of a railroad to make it firm and solid.  4. The larger solids, as broken stone or gravel, used in making concrete.  5. Fig.: That which gives, or helps to maintain, uprightness, steadiness, and security. It [piety] is the right ballast of prosperity. Barrow. Ballast engine, a steam engine used in excavating and for digging and raising stones and gravel for ballast.  -- Ship in ballast, a ship carring only ballast. 

BALLASTAGE:  A toll paid for the privilege of taking up ballast in a port or harbor. 

BALLASTING:  That which is used for steadying anything; ballast. 

BALLATRY:  See Balladry. [Obs.] Milton. 

BALLET:  A light part song, or madrigal, with a fa la burden or chorus, -- most common with the Elizabethan madrigal composers.  4. (Her.)  A bearing in coats of arms, representing one or more balls, which are denominated bezants, plates, etc., according to color.  BALL-FLOWER Ball"-flow`er, n. (Arch.)  An ornament resembling a ball placed in a circular flower, the petals of which form a cup round it, -- usually inserted in a hollow molding. 

BALLISTA:  An ancient military engine, in the form of a crossbow, used for hurling large missiles. 

BALLISTER:  A crossbow. [Obs.] 

BALLISTICS:  The science or art of hurling missile weapons by the use of an engine. Whewell. 

BALLISTITE:  A smokeless powder containing equal parts of soluble nitrocellulose and nitroglycerin. 

BALLIUM:  See Bailey. 

BALLOON:  A ball or globe on the top of a pillar, church, etc., as at St. Paul's, in London. [R.]  3. (Chem.)  A round vessel, usually with a short neck, to hold or receive whatever is distilled; a glass vessel of a spherical form.  4. (Pyrotechnics)  A bomb or shell. [Obs.]  5. A game played with a large inf [Obs.]  6. (Engraving)  The outline inclosing words represented as coming from the mouth of a pictured figure. Air balloon, a balloon for aërial navigation.  -- Balloon frame (Carp.), a house frame constructed altogether of small timber.  -- Balloon net, a variety of woven lace in which the weft threads are twisted in a peculiar manner around the warp. 

BALLOON:  To take up in, or as if in, a balloon. 

BALLOONED:  Swelled out like a balloon. 

BALLOONER:  One who goes up in a balloon; an aëronaut.  BALLOON FISH Bal*loon" fish`. (Zoöl.)  A fish of the genus Diodon or the genus Tetraodon, having the power of distending its body by taking air or water into its dilatable esophagus. See Globefish, and Bur fish. 

BALLOONING:  The process of temporarily raising the value of a stock, as by fictitious sales. [U.S.]  BALLOONING SPIDER Bal*loon"ing spi"der. (Zoöl.)  A spider which has the habit of rising into the air. Many kinds ( esp. species of Lycosa) do this while young by ejecting threads of silk until the force of the wind upon them carries the spider aloft. 

BALLOONIST:  An aëronaut. 

BALLOONRY:  The art or practice of ascending in a balloon; aëronautics. 

BALLOT:  To vote or decide by ballot; as, to ballot for a candidate. 

BALLOT:  To vote for or in opposition to. None of the competitors arriving to a sufficient number of balls, they fell to ballot some others. Sir H. Wotton. 

BALLOTADE:  A leap of a horse, as between two pillars, or upon a straight line, so that when his four feet are in the air, he shows only the shoes of his hind feet, without jerking out. 

BALLOTAGE:  In France, a second ballot taken after an indecisive first ballot to decide between two or several candidates. 

BALLOTATION:  Voting by ballot. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

BALLOTER:  One who votes by ballot. 

BALLOTIN:  An officer who has charge of a ballot box. [Obs.] Harrington. 

BALLOW:  A cudgel. [Obs.] Shak. 

BALLPROOF:  Incapable of being penetrated by balls from firearms. 

BALLROOM:  A room for balls or dancing. 

BALM:  An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.  2. The resinous and aromatic exudation of certain trees or shrubs. Dryden.  3. Any fragrant ointment. Shak.  4. Anything that heals or that mitigates pain. "Balm for each ill." Mrs. Hemans. Balm cricket (Zoöl.), the European cicada. Tennyson.  -- Balm of Gilead (Bot.), a small evergreen African and Asiatic tree of the terebinthine family (Balsamodendron Gileadense). Its leaves yield, when bruised, a strong aromatic scent; and from this tree is obtained the balm of Gilead of the shops, or balsam of Mecca. This has a yellowish or greenish color, a warm, bitterish, aromatic taste, and a fragrant smell. It is valued as an unguent and cosmetic by the Turks. The fragrant herb Dracocephalum Canariense is familiarly called balm of Gilead, and so are the American trees, Populus balsamifera, variety candicans (balsam poplar), and Abies balsamea (balsam fir). 

BALM:  To anoint with balm, or with anything medicinal. Hence: To soothe; to mitigate. [Archaic] Shak. 

BALMIFY:  To render balmy. [Obs.] Cheyne. 

BALMILY:  In a balmy manner. Coleridge. 

BALNEAL:  Of or pertaining to a bath. Howell. 

BALNEARY:  A bathing room. Sir T. Browne. 

BALNEATION:  The act of bathing. [R.] 

BALNEATORY:  Belonging to a bath. [Obs.] 

BALNEOGRAPHY:  A description of baths. 

BALNEOLOGY:  A treatise on baths; the science of bathing. 

BALNEOTHERAPY:  The treatment of disease by baths. 

BALOPTICON:  See Projector, below. 

BALOTADE:  See Ballotade. 

BALSA:  A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of South America. 

BALSAM:  To treat or anoint with balsam; to relieve, as with balsam; to render balsamic. 

BALSAMATION:  Having the qualities of balsam; containing, or resembling, balsam; soft; mitigative; soothing; restorative. 

BALSAMIFEROUS:  Producing balsam. 

BALSAMINE:  The Impatiens balsamina, or garden balsam. 

BALSAMOUS:  Having the quality of balsam; containing balsam. "A balsamous substance." Sterne. 

BALTER:  To stick together.[Obs.] Holland. 

BALTIC:  Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Sweden from Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea.  BALTIMORE BIRD; BALTIMORE ORIOLE Bal"ti*more bird`. Bal"ti*more o"ri*ole. (Zoöl.)  A common American bird (Icterus galbula), named after Lord Baltimore, because its colors (black and orange red) are like those of his coat of arms; -- called also golden robin. 

BALUSTER:  A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an open parapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase, or the eaves of a building. 

BALUSTERED:  Having balusters.  Dryden. 

BALUSTRADE:  A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an open parapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase, or the eaves of a building. 

BAM:  An imposition; a cheat; a hoax. Garrick. To relieve the tediumbams. Prof. Wilson. 

BAM:  To cheat; to wheedle. [Slang] Foote. 

BAMBINO:  A child or baby; esp., a representation in art of the infant Christ wrapped in swaddling clothes. 

BAMBOCCIADE:  A representation of a grotesque scene from common or rustic life. 

BAMBOO:  A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing in tropical countries.  Note: The most useful species is Bambusa arundinacea, which has a woody, hollow, round, straight, jointed stem, and grows to the height of forty feet and upward. The flowers grow in large panicles, from the joints of the stalk, placed three in a parcel, close to their receptacles. Old stalks grow to five or six inches in diameter, and are so hard and durable as to be used for building, and for all sorts of furniture, for water pipes, and for poles to support palanquins. The smaller stalks are used for walking sticks, flutes, etc. 

BAMBOO:  To flog with the bamboo. 

BAMBOOZLE:  To deceive by trickery; to cajole by confusing the senses; to hoax; to mystify; to humbug. [Colloq.] Addison. What oriental tomfoolery is bamboozling you J. H. Newman. 

BAMBOOZLER:  A swindler; one who deceives by trickery. [Colloq.] Arbuthnot. 

BAN:  A calling together of the king's (esp. the French king's) vassals for military service; also, the body of vassals thus assembled or summoned. In present usage, in France and Prussia, the most effective part of the population liable to military duty and not in the standing army.  3. pl.  Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in church. See Banns (the common spelling in this sense).  4. An interdiction, prohibition, or proscription. "Under ban to touch." Milton.  5. A curse or anathema. "Hecate's ban." Shak.  6. A pecuniary mulct or penalty laid upon a delinquent for offending against a ban; as, a mulct paid to a bishop by one guilty of sacrilege or other crimes. Ban of the empire (German Hist.), an imperial interdict by which political rights and privileges, as those of a prince, city, or district, were taken away. 

BAN:  To curse; to swear. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BAN:  An ancient title of the warden of the eastern marches of Hungary; now, a title of the viceroy of Croatia and Slavonia. 

BANAL:  Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite. 

BANALITY:  Something commonplace, hackneyed, or trivial; the commonplace, in speech. The highest things were thus brought down to the banalities of discourse. J. Morley. 

BANANA:  A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musa sapientum); also, its edible fruit. See Musa.  Note: The banana has a soft, herbaceous stalk, with leaves of great length and breadth. The flowers grow in bunches, covered with a sheath of a green or purple color; the fruit is five or six inches long, and over an inch in diameter; the pulp is soft, and of a luscious taste, and is eaten either raw or cooked. This plant is a native of tropical countries, and furnishes an important article of food. Banana bird (Zoöl.), a small American bird (Icterus leucopteryx), which feeds on the banana.  -- Banana quit (Zoöl.), a small bird of tropical America, of the genus Certhiola, allied to the creepers.  BANANA SOLUTION Ba*na"na so*lu"tion.  A solution used as a vehicle in applying bronze pigments. In addition to acetote, benzine, and a little pyroxylin, it contains amyl acetate, which gives it the odor of bananas. 

BANAT:  The territory governed by a ban.  BANC; BANCUS; BANK Banc, Ban"cus, Bank, n. Etym: [OF. banc, LL. bancus. See Bank, n.]  A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a tribunal or court. In banc, In banco (the ablative of bancus), In bank, in full court, or with full judicial authority; as, sittings in banc (distinguished from sittings at nisi prius). 

BANCAL:  An ornamental covering, as of carpet or leather, for a bench or form. 

BANCO:  A bank, especially that of Venice.  Note: This term is used in some parts of Europe to indicate bank money, as distinguished from the current money, when this last has become depreciated. 

BAND:  Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of a clerical, legal, or academic dress.  6. A narrow strip of cloth or other material on any article of dress, to bind, strengthen, ornament, or complete it. "Band and gusset and seam." Hood.  7. A company of persons united in any common design, especially a body of armed men. Troops of horsemen with his bands of foot. Shak.  8. A number of musicians who play together upon portable musical instruments, especially those making a loud sound, as certain wind instruments (trumpets, clarinets, etc.), and drums, or cymbals.  9. (Bot.)  A space between elevated lines or ribs, as of the fruits of umbelliferous plants.  10. (Zoöl.)  A stripe, streak, or other mark transverse to the axis of the body.  11. (Mech.)  A belt or strap.  12. A bond [Obs.] "Thy oath and band." Shak.  13. Pledge; security. [Obs.] Spenser. Band saw, a saw in the form of an endless steel belt, with teeth on one edge, running over wheels. 

BAND:  To confederate for some common purpose; to unite; to conspire together. Certain of the Jews banded together. Acts xxiii. 12. 

BAND:  To bandy; to drive away. [Obs.] 

BAND:  of Bind. [Obs.] 

BANDAGE:  To bind, dress, or cover, with a bandage; as, to bandage the eyes. 

BANDALA:  A fabric made in Manilla from the older leaf sheaths of the abaca (Musa textilis).  BANDANNA; BANDANA Ban*dan"na, Ban*dan"a, n. Etym: [Hind. bandhn a mode of dyeing in which the cloth is tied in different places so as to prevent the parts tied from receiving the dye. Cf. Band, n.]  1. A species of silk or cotton handkerchief, having a uniformly dyed ground, usually of red or blue, with white or yellow figures of a circular, lozenge, or other simple form.  2. A style of calico printing, in which white or bright spots are produced upon cloth previously dyed of a uniform red or dark color, by discharging portions of the color by chemical means, while the rest of the cloth is under pressure. Ure. 

BANDBOX:  A light box of pasteboard or thin wood, usually cylindrical, for holding ruffs (the bands of the 17th century), collars, caps, bonnets, etc. 

BANDEAU:  A narrow band or fillet; a part of a head-dress. Around the edge of this cap was a stiff bandeau of leather. Sir W. Scott.  BANDELET; BANDLET Band"e*let, Band"let, n. Etym: [F. bandelette, dim. of bande. See Band, n., and ch. Bendlet.] (Arch.)  A small band or fillet; any little band or flat molding, compassing a column, like a ring. Gwilt. 

BANDER:  One banded with others. [R.] 

BANDERILLA:  A barbed dart carrying a banderole which the banderillero thrusts into the neck or shoulder of the bull in a bullfight. 

BANDERILLERO:  One who thrusts in the banderillas in bullfighting.  W. D. Howells.  BANDEROLE; BANDROL Band"e*role, Band"rol, n. Etym: [F. banderole, dim. of bandière, bannière, banner; cf. It. banderuola a little banner. See Banner.]  A little banner, flag, or streamer. [Written also bannerol.] From the extremity of which fluttered a small banderole or streamer bearing a cross. Sir W. Scott.  BAND FISH Band" fish`. (Zoöl.)  A small red fish of the genus Cepola; the ribbon fish. 

BANDICOOT:  A plane used for cutting out grooves and inlaying strings and bands in straight and circular work. 

BANDIT:  An outlaw; a brigand. No savage fierce, bandit, or mountaineer. Milton.  Note: The plural banditti was formerly used as a collective noun. Deerstealers are ever a desperate banditti. Sir W. Scott. 

BANDLE:  An Irish measure of two feet in length. 

BANDLET:  Same as Bandelet. 

BANDMASTER:  The conductor of a musical band. 

BANDOG:  A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chained or tied up. The keeper entered leading his bandog, a large bloodhound, tied in a leam, or band, from which he takes his name. Sir W. Scott.  BANDOLEER; BANDOLIER Ban`do*leer", Ban`do*lier", n. Etym: [F. bandoulière (cf.It. bandoliera, Sp.bandolera), fr.F. bande band, Sp.&It. banda. See Band, n.]  1. A broad leather belt formerly worn by soldiers over the right shoulder and across the breast under the left arm. Originally it was used for supporting the musket and twelve cases for charges, but later only as a cartridge belt.  2. One of the leather or wooden cases in which the charges of powder were carried. [Obs.] 

BANDOLINE:  A glutinous pomatum for the fair. 

BANDON:  Disposal; control; license. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

BANDORE:  A musical stringed instrument, similar in form to a guitar; a pandore. 

BANDROL:  Same as Banderole. 

BANDY:  A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks. 

BANDY:  To content, as at some game in which each strives to drive the ball his own way. Fit to bandy with thy lawless sons. Shak. 

BANDY:  Bent; crooked; curved laterally, esp. with the convex side outward; as, a bandy leg.  BANDY-LEGGED Ban"dy-legged`, a.  Having crooked legs. 

BANE:  To be the bane of; to ruin. [Obs.] Fuller. 

BANEBERRY:  A genus (Actæa) of plants, of the order Ranunculaceæ, native in the north temperate zone. The red or white berries are poisonous. 

BANEFUL:  Having poisonous qualities; deadly; destructive; injurious; noxious; pernicious. "Baneful hemlock." Garth. "Baneful wrath." Chapman.  -- Bane"ful*ly, adv. --Bane"ful*ness, n. 

BANEWORT:  Deadly nightshade. 

BANG:  To make a loud noise, as if with a blow or succession of blows; as, the window blind banged and waked me; he was banging on the piano. 

BANG:  To cut squarely across, as the tail of a hors, or the forelock of human beings; to cut (the hair). His hair banged even with his eyebrows. The Century Mag. 

BANG:  The short, front hair combed down over the forehead, esp. when cut squarely across; a false front of hair similarly worn. His hair cut in front like a young lady's bang. W. D. Howells.  BANG; BANGUE Bang, Bangue, n.  See Bhang. 

BANGING:  Huge; great in size. [Colloq.] Forby. 

BANGLE:  To waste by little and little; to fritter away. [Obs.] 

BANGLE:  An ornamental circlet, of glass, gold, silver, or other material, worn by women in India and Africa, and in some other countries, upon the wrist or ankle; a ring bracelet. Bangle ear, a loose hanging ear of a horse, like that of a spaniel. 

BANIAN:  The Indian fig. See Banyan. Banian days (Naut.), days in which the sailors have no flesh meat served out to them. This use seems to be borrowed from the Banians or Banya race, who eat no flesh. 

BANISHER:  One who banishes. 

BANISHMENT:  The act of banishing, or the state of being banished. He secured himself by the banishment of his enemies. Johnson. Round the wide world in banishment we roam. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Expatriation; ostracism; expulsion; proscription; exile; outlawry. 

BANISTER:  A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the guitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and is played with the fingers and hands. 

BANJO:  A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the guitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and is played with the fingers and hands. 

BANJORINE:  A kind of banjo, with a short neck, tuned a fourth higher than the common banjo; -- popularly so called. 

BANK:  A sort of table used by printers.  4. (Music)  A bench, or row of keys belonging to a keyboard, as in an organ. Knight. 

BANK:  The sum of money or the checks which the dealer or banker has as a fund, from which to draw his stakes and pay his losses.  5. In certain games, as dominos, a fund of pieces from which the players are allowed to draw. Bank credit, a credit by which a person who has give -- Bank of deposit, a bank which receives money for safe keeping.  -- Bank of issue, a bank which issues its own notes payable to bearer. 

BANK:  To deposit in a bank. 

BANKABLE:  Receivable at a bank.  BANK BILL Bank" bill`.  1. In America (and formerly in England), a promissory note of a bank payable to the bearer on demand, and used as currency; a bank note.  2. In England, a note, or a bill of exchange, of a bank, payable to order, and usually at some future specified time. Such bills are negotiable, but form, in the strict sense of the term, no part of the currency.  BANK BOOK Bank" book`.  A book kept by a depositor, in which an officer of a bank enters the debits and credits of the depositor's account with the bank.  BANK DISCOUNT Bank discount.  A sum equal to the interest at a given rate on the principal (face) of a bill or note from the time of discounting until it becomes due. 

BANKERESS:  A female banker. Thackeray. 

BANKING:  The business of a bank or of a banker. Banking house, an establishment or office in which, or a firm by whom, banking is done.  BANK NOTE Bank" note`.  1. A promissory note issued by a bank or banking company, payable to bearer on demand.  Note: In the United States popularly called a bank bill.  2. Formerly, a promissory note made by a banker, or banking company, payable to a specified person at a fixed date; a bank bill. See Bank bill, 2. [Obs.]  3. A promissory note payable at a bank. 

BANKRUPT:  A trader who secretes himself, or does certain other acts tending to defraud his creditors. Blackstone.  2. A trader who becomes unable to pay his debts; an insolvent trader; popularly, any person who is unable to pay his debts; an insolvent person. M  3. (Law)  A person who, in accordance with the terms of a law relating to bankruptcy, has been judicially declared to be unable to meet his liabilities.  Note: In England, until the year 1861 none but a "trader" could be made a bankrupt; a non-trader failing to meet his liabilities being an "insolvent". But this distinction was abolished by the Bankruptcy Act of 1861. The laws of 1841 and 1867 of the United States relating to bankruptcy applied this designation bankrupt to others besides those engaged in trade. 

BANKRUPT:  To make bankrupt; to bring financial ruin upon; to impoverish. 

BANKSIDE:  The slope of a bank, especially of the bank of a steam.  BANK-SIDED Bank"-sid`ed, a. (Naut.)  Having sides inclining inwards, as a ship; -- opposed to wall- sided.  BANK SWALLOW Bank" swal"low.  See under 1st Bank, n. 

BANLIEUE:  The territory without the walls, but within the legal limits, of a town or city. Brande & C. 

BANNERED:  Decorated with a banner or banners "bannered host." Milton. 

BANNEROL:  A banderole; esp. a banner displayed at a funeral procession and set over the tomb. See Banderole. 

BANNITION:  The act of expulsion.[Obs.] Abp. Laud. 

BANNOCK:  A kind of cake or bread, in shape flat and roundish, commonly made of oatmeal or barley meal and baked on an iron plate, or griddle; -- used in Scotland and the northern counties of England. Jamieson. Bannock fluke, the turbot. [Scot.] 

BANNS:  Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or other place prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if he knows of just cause why the marriage should not take place. 

BANQUET:  To treat with a banquet or sumptuous entertainment of food; to feast. Just in time to banquet The illustrious company assembled there. Coleridge. 

BANQUETTE:  A raised way or foot bank, running along the inside of a parapet, on which musketeers stand to fire upon the enemy.  2. (Arch.)  A narrow window seat; a raised shelf at the back or the top of a buffet or dresser.  BANQUETTER; BANQUETER Ban"quet*ter, n.  One who banquets; one who feasts or makes feasts.  BANSHEE; BANSHIE Ban"shee, Ban"shie, n. Etym: [Gael. bean-shith fairy; Gael. & Ir. bean woman + Gael. sith fairy.]  A supernatural being supposed by the Irish and Scotch peasantry to warn a family of the speedy death of one of its members, by wailing or singing in a mournful voice under the windows of the house.  BANSSHEE; BANSHIE Bans"shee, Ban"shie, n. [Gael. bean-shith fairy; Gael. & Ir. bean woman + Gael. sith fairy.] (Celtic Folklore)  A supernatural being supposed to warn a family of the approaching death of one of its members, by wailing or singing in a mournful voice. 

BANSTICKLE:  A small fish, the three-spined stickleback. 

BANTAM:  A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probably brought from Bantam, a district of Java.  BANTAM WORK Ban"tam work`.  Carved and painted work in imitation of Japan ware. 

BANTENG:  The wild ox of Java (Bibos Banteng). 

BANTER:  The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good- humored raillery; pleasantry. Part banter, part affection. Tennyson. 

BANTERER:  One who banters or rallies. 

BANTINGISM:  A method of reducing corpulence by avoiding food containing much farinaceous, saccharine, or oily matter; -- so called from William Banting of London. 

BANTLING:  A young or small child; an infant. [Slightly contemptuous or depreciatory.] In what out of the way corners genius produces her bantlings. W. Irving. 

BANTU:  A member of one of the great family of Negroid tribes occupying equatorial and southern Africa. These tribes include, as important divisions, the Kafirs, Damaras, Bechuanas, and many tribes whose names begin with Aba-, Ama-, Ba-, Ma-, Wa-, variants of the Bantu plural personal prefix Aba-, as in Ba-ntu, or Aba-ntu, itself a combination of this prefix with the syllable -ntu, a person. -- Ban"tu, a. 

BANXRING:  An East Indian insectivorous mammal of the genus Tupaia. 

BANYAN:  A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called the Indian fig (Ficus Indica), whose branches send shoots to the ground, which take root and become additional trunks, until it may be the tree covers some acres of ground and is able to shelter thousands of men. 

BANZAI:  Lit., May you live ten thousand years; -- used in salutation of the emperor and as a battle cry. [Japan] 

BAOBAB:  A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata), also naturalized in India. See Adansonia. 

BAPHOMET:  An idol or symbolical figure which the Templars were accused of using in their mysterious rites. 

BAPTISM:  The act of baptizing; the application of water to a person, as a sacrament or religious ceremony, by which he is initiated into the visible church of Christ. This is performed by immersion, sprinkling, or pouring. 

BAPTISMAL:  Pertaining to baptism; as, baptismal vows. Baptismal name, the Christian name, which is given at baptism. 

BAPTISMALLY:  In a baptismal manner. 

BAPTISTIC:  Of or for baptism; baptismal. 

BAPTISTICAL:  Baptistic. [R.] 

BAPTIZABLE:  Capable of being baptized; fit to be baptized. Baxter. 

BAPTIZATION:  Baptism. [Obs.] Their baptizations were null. Jer. Taylor. 

BAPTIZEMENT:  The act of baptizing.[R.] 

BAPTIZER:  One who baptizes. 

BAR:  An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifth part of the field.  10. A broad shaft, or band, or stripe; as, a bar of light; a bar of color.  11. (Mus.)  A vertical line across the staff. Bars divide the staff into spaces which represent measures, and are themselves called measures.  Note: A double bar marks the end of a strain or main division of a movement, or of a whole piece of music; in psalmody, it marks the end of a line of poetry. The term bar is very often loosely used for measure, i.e., for such length of music, or of silence, as is included between one bar and the next; as, a passage of eight bars; two bars' rest.  12. (Far.) pl. (a) The space between the tusks and grinders in the upper jaw of a horse, in which the bit is placed. (b) The part of the crust of a horse's hoof which is bent inwards towards the frog at the heel on each side, and extends into the center of the sole.  13. (Mining) (a) A drilling or tamping rod. (b) A vein or dike crossing a lode.  14. (Arch.) (a) A gatehouse of a castle or fortified town. (b) A slender strip of wood which divides and supports the glass of a window; a sash bar. Bar shoe (Far.), a kind of horseshoe having a bar across the usual opening at the heel, to protect a tender frog from injury.  -- Bar shot, a double headed shot, consisting of a bar, with a ball or half ball at each end; -- formerly used for destroying the masts or rigging in naval combat.  -- Bar sinister (Her.), a term popularly but erroneously used for baton, a mark of illegitimacy. See Baton.  -- Bar tracery (Arch.), ornamental stonework resembling bars of iron twisted into the forms required.  -- Blank bar (Law). See Blank.  -- Case at bar (Law), a case presently before the court; a case under argument.  -- In bar of, as a sufficient reason against; to prevent.  -- Matter in bar, or Defence in bar, a plea which is a final defense in an action.  -- Plea in bar, a plea which goes to bar or defeat the plaintiff's action absolutely and entirely.  -- Trial at bar (Eng. Law), a trial before all the judges of one the superior courts of Westminster, or before a quorum representing the full court. 

BARACA:  An international, interdenominational organization of Bible classes of young men; -- so named in allusion to the Hebrew word Berachah (Meaning blessing) occurring in 2 Chron. xx. 26 and 1 Chron. xii. 

BARAD:  The pressure of one dyne per square centimeter; -- used as a unit of pressure.  BARAESTHESIOMETER; BARESTHESIOMETER Bar`æs*the`si*om"e*ter, Bar`es*the`si*om"e*ter, n. [Gr.  weight + æsthesiometer.] (Physiol.)  An instrument for determining the delicacy of the sense of pressure. -- Bar`æs*the`si*o*met"ric, Bar`es*the`si*o*met"ric (#), a. 

BARATHEA:  A soft fabric with a kind of basket weave and a diapered pattern. 

BARB:  Paps, or little projections, of the mucous membrane, which mark the opening of the submaxillary glands under the tongue in horses and cattle. The name is mostly applied when the barbs are inflamed and swollen. [Written also barbel and barble.]  4. The point that stands backward in an arrow, fishhook, etc., to prevent it from being easily extracted. Hence: Anything which stands out with a sharp point obliquely or crosswise to something else. "Having two barbs or points." Ascham.  5. A bit for a horse. [Obs.] Spenser.  6. (Zoöl.)  One of the side branches of a feather, which collectively constitute the vane. See Feather.  7. (Zoöl.)  A southern name for the kingfishes of the eastern and southeastern coasts of the United States; -- also improperly called whiting.  8. (Bot.)  A hair or bristle ending in a double hook. 

BARB:  A blackish or dun variety of the pigeon, originally brought from Barbary. 

BARB:  Armor for a horse. Same as 2d Bard, n., 1. 

BARBACAN:  See Barbican. 

BARBACANAGE:  See Barbicanage. 

BARBADIAN:  Of or pertaining to Barbados.  -- n.  A native of Barbados.  BARBADOS; BARBADOES Bar*ba"dos or Bar*ba"does, n.  A West Indian island, giving its name to a disease, to a cherry, etc. Barbados cherry (Bot.), a genus of trees of the West Indies (Malpighia) with an agreeably acid fruit resembling a cherry.  -- Barbados leg (Med.), a species of elephantiasis incident to hot climates.  -- Barbados nuts, the seeds of the Jatropha curcas, a plant growing in South America and elsewhere. The seeds and their acrid oil are used in medicine as a purgative. See Physic nut. 

BARBARA:  The first word in certain mnemonic lines which represent the various forms of the syllogism. It indicates a syllogism whose three propositions are universal affirmatives. Whately. 

BARBARESQUE:  Barbaric in form or style; as, barbaresque architecture. De Quincey. 

BARBARIAN:  Of, or pertaining to, or resembling, barbarians; rude; uncivilized; barbarous; as, barbarian governments or nations. 

BARBARITY:  The state or manner of a barbarian; lack of civilization.  2. Cruelty; ferociousness; inhumanity. Treating Christians with a barbarity which would have shocked the very Moslem. Macaulay.  3. A barbarous or cruel act.  4. Barbarism; impurity of speech. [Obs.] Swift. 

BARBARIZE:  To make barbarous. The hideous changes which have barbarized France. Burke. 

BARBAROUSLY:  In a barbarous manner. 

BARBAROUSNESS:  The quality or state of being barbarous; barbarity; barbarism. 

BARBARY:  The countries on the north coast of Africa from Egypt to the Atlantic. Hence: A Barbary horse; a barb. [Obs.] Also, a kind of pigeon. Barbary ape (Zoöl.), an ape (Macacus innus) of north Africa and Gibraltar Rock, being the only monkey inhabiting Europe. It is very commonly trained by showmen. 

BARBASTEL:  A European bat (Barbastellus communis), with hairy lips. 

BARBATE:  Bearded; beset with long and weak hairs. 

BARBATED:  Having barbed points. A dart uncommonly barbated. T. Warton. 

BARBED:  Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse. See Barded ( which is the proper form.) Sir W. Raleigh. 

BARBED:  Furnished with a barb or barbs; as, a barbed arrow; barbed wire. Barbed wire, a wire, or a strand of twisted wires, armed with barbs or sharp points. It is used for fences. 

BARBEL:  A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large fresh-water fish ( Barbus vulgaris) found in many European rivers. Its upper jaw is furnished with four barbels.  3. pl.  Barbs or paps under the tongued of horses and cattle. See 1st Barb, 3. 

BARBELLATE:  Having short, stiff hairs, often barbed at the point. Gray. 

BARBELLULATE:  Barbellate with diminutive hairs or barbs. 

BARBER:  One whose occupation it is to shave or trim the beard, and to cut and dress the hair of his patrons. Barber's itch. See under Itch.  Note: Formerly the barber practiced some offices of surgery, such as letting blood and pulling teeth. Hence such terms as barber surgeon ( old form barber chirurgeon), barber surgery, etc. 

BARBER:  To shave and dress the beard or hair of. Shak.  BARBER FISH Bar"ber fish. (Zoöl.)  See Surgeon fish. 

BARBERMONGER:  A fop. [Obs.] 

BARBERRY:  A shrub of the genus Berberis, common along roadsides and in neglected fields. B. vulgaris is the species best known; its oblong red berries are made into a preserve or sauce, and have been deemed efficacious in fluxes and fevers. The bark dyes a fine yellow, esp. the bark of the root. [Also spelt berberry.] 

BARBETTE:  A mound of earth or a platform in a fortification, on which guns are mounted to fire over the parapet. En barbette, In barbette, said of guns when they are elevated so as to fire over the top of a parapet, and not through embrasures.  -- Barbette gun, or Barbette battery, a single gun, or a number of guns, mounted in barbette, or partially protected by a parapet or turret.  -- Barbette carriage, a gun carriage which elevates guns sufficiently to be in barbette. [See Illust. of Casemate.]  BARBICAN; BARBACAN Bar"bi*can, Bar"ba*can, n. Etym: [OE. barbican, barbecan, F. barbacane, LL. barbacana, barbicana, of uncertain origin: cf. Ar. barbakh aqueduct, sewer. F. barbacane also means, an opening to let out water, loophole.]  1. ( Fort.) A tower or advanced work defending the entrance to a castle or city, as at a gate or bridge. It was often large and strong, having a ditch and drawbridge of its own.  2. An opening in the wall of a fortress, through which missiles were discharged upon an enemy.  BARBICANAGE; BARBACANAGE Bar"bi*can*age, Bar"ba*can*age, n. Etym: [LL. barbicanagium. See Barbican.]  Money paid for the support of a barbican. [Obs.] 

BARBICEL:  One of the small hooklike processes on the barbules of feathers. 

BARBIERS:  A variety of paralysis, peculiar to India and the Malabar coast; -- considered by many to be the same as beriberi in chronic form. 

BARBIGEROUS:  Having a beard; bearded; hairy. 

BARBITON:  An ancient Greek instrument resembling a lyre.  BARBITURIC ACID Bar`bi*tu"ric ac"id. (Chem.)  A white, crystalline substance,  BARBIZON SCHOOL; BARBISON SCHOOL Bar`bi`zon" school or Bar`bi`son" school. (Painting)  A French school of the middle of the 19th century centering in the village of Barbizon near the forest of Fontainebleau. Its members went straight to nature in disregard of academic tradition, treating their subjects faithfully and with poetic feeling for color, light, and atmosphere. It is exemplified, esp. in landscapes, by Corot, Rousseau, Daubigny, Jules Dupré, and Diaz. Associated with them are certain painters of animals, as Troyon and Jaque, and of peasant life, as Millet and Jules Breton. 

BARBLE:  See Barbel. 

BARBOTINE:  A paste of clay used in decorating coarse pottery in relief. 

BARBRE:  Barbarian. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BARBULE:  One of the processes along the edges of the barbs of a feather, by which adjacent barbs interlock. See Feather. 

BARCON:  A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean. 

BARD:  Defensive armor formerly worn by a man at arms.  3. (Cookery)  A thin slice of fat bacon used to cover any meat or game. 

BARD:  To cover (meat or game) with a thin slice of fat bacon. 

BARDED:  Wearing rich caparisons. Fifteen hundred men . . . barded and richly trapped. Stow. 

BARDIC:  Of or pertaining to bards, or their poetry. "The bardic lays of ancient Greece." G. P. Marsh. 

BARDIGLIO:  An Italian marble of which the principal varieties occur in the neighborhood of Carrara and in Corsica. It commonly shows a dark gray or bluish ground traversed by veins. 

BARDISH:  Pertaining to, or written by, a bard or bards. "Bardish impostures." Selden. 

BARDISM:  The system of bards; the learning and maxims of bards. 

BARDLING:  An inferior bard. J. Cunningham. 

BARDSHIP:  The state of being a bard. 

BARE:  That part of a roofing slate, shingle, tile, or metal plate, which is exposed to the weather. 

BARE:  To strip off the covering of; to make bare; as, to bare the breast. 

BARE:  Bore; the old preterit of Bear, v. 

BAREBACK:  On the bare back of a horse, without using a saddle; as, to ride bareback. 

BAREBACKED:  Having the back uncovered; as, a barebacked horse. 

BAREBONE:  A very lean person; one whose bones show through the skin. Shak. 

BAREFACEDLY:  Openly; shamelessly. Locke. 

BAREFACEDNESS:  The quality of being barefaced; shamelessness; assurance; audaciousness. 

BAREFOOT:  With the feet bare; without shoes or stockings. 

BAREFOOTED:  Having the feet bare. 

BAREGE:  A gauzelike fabric for ladies' dresses, veils, etc. of worsted, silk and worsted, or cotton and worsted. 

BAREHANDED:  Having bare hands.  BAREHEADED; BAREHEAD Bare"head`ed, Bare"head, a. & adv.  Having the head uncovered; as, a bareheaded girl. 

BARELEGGED:  Having the legs bare. 

BARENECKED:  Having the neck bare. 

BARENESS:  The state of being bare. 

BARESARK:  A Berserker, or Norse warrior who fought without armor, or shirt of mail. Hence, adverbially: Without shirt of mail or armor. 

BARFISH:  Same as Calico bass. 

BARFUL:  Full of obstructions. [Obs.] Shak. 

BARGAIN:  To make a bargain; to make a contract for the exchange of property or services; -- followed by with and for; as, to bargain with a farmer for a cow. So worthless peasants bargain for their wives. Shak. 

BARGAIN:  To transfer for a consideration; to barter; to trade; as, to bargain one horse for another. To bargain away, to dispose of in a bargain; -- usually with a sense of loss or disadvantage; as, to bargain away one's birthright. "The heir . . . had somehow bargained away the estate." G. Eliot. 

BARGAINEE:  The party to a contract who receives, or agrees to receive, the property sold. Blackstone. 

BARGAINER:  One who makes a bargain; -- sometimes in the sense of bargainor. 

BARGAINOR:  One who makes a bargain, or contracts with another; esp., one who sells, or contracts to sell, property to another. Blackstone. 

BARGEBOARD:  A vergeboard. 

BARGECOURSE:  A part of the tiling which projects beyond the principal rafters, in buildings where there is a gable. Gwilt. 

BARGEE:  A bargeman. [Eng.] 

BARGEMAN:  The man who manages a barge, or one of the crew of a barge. 

BARGEMASTTER:  The proprietor or manager of a barge, or one of the crew of a barge. 

BARGER:  The manager of a barge. [Obs.] 

BARGHEST:  A goblin, in the shape of a large dog, portending misfortune. [Also written barguest.] 

BARIA:  Baryta. 

BARIC:  Of or pertaining to barium; as, baric oxide. 

BARIC:  Of or pertaining to weight, esp. to the weight or pressure of the atmosphere as measured by the barometer. 

BARILLA:  A name given to several species of Salsola from which soda is made, by burning the barilla in heaps and lixiviating the ashes.  2. (Com.) (a) The alkali produced from the plant, being an impure carbonate of soda, used for making soap, glass, etc., and for bleaching purposes. (b) Impure soda obtained from the ashes of any seashore plant, or kelp. Ure. Copper barilla (Min.), native copper in granular form mixed with sand, an ore brought from Bolivia; -- called also Barilla de cobre. 

BARILLET:  A little cask, or something resembling one. Smart.  BAR IRON Bar" i`ron.  See under Iron. 

BARITE:  Native sulphate of barium, a mineral occurring in transparent, colorless, white to yellow crystals (generally tabular), also in granular form, and in compact massive forms resembling marble. It has a high specific gravity, and hence is often called heavy spar. It is a common mineral in metallic veins. 

BARITONE:  See Barytone. 

BARIUM:  One of the elements, belonging to the alkaline earth group; a metal having a silver-white color, and melting at a very high temperature. It is difficult to obtain the pure metal, from the facility with which it becomes oxidized in the air. Atomic weight, 137. Symbol, Ba. Its oxide called baryta. [Rarely written barytum.]  Note: Some of the compounds of this element are remarkable for their high specific gravity, as the sulphate, called heavy spar, and the like. The oxide was called barote, by Guyton de Morveau, which name was changed by Lavoisier to baryta, whence the name of the metal. 

BARK:  The short, loud, explosive sound uttered by a dog; a similar sound made by some other animals.  BARK; BARQUE Bark, Barque, n. Etym: [F. barque, fr. Sp. or It. barca, fr. LL. barca for barica. See Barge.]  1. Formerly, any small sailing vessel, as a pinnace, fishing smack, etc.; also, a rowing boat; a barge. Now applied poetically to a sailing vessel or boat of any kind. Byron.  2. (Naut.)  A three-masted vessel, having her foremast and mainmast squarerigged, and her mizzenmast schooner-rigged. 

BARKANTINE:  Same as Barkentine.  BARK BEETLE Bark" bee`tle. (Zoöl.)  A small beetle of many species (family Scolytidæ), which in the larval state bores under or in the bark of trees, often doing great damage. 

BARKBOUND:  Prevented from growing, by having the bark too firm or close. 

BARKEEPER:  One who keeps or tends a bar for the sale of liquors. 

BARKEN:  Made of bark. [Poetic] Whittier. 

BARKENTINE:  A threemasted vessel, having the foremast square-rigged, and the others schooner-rigged. [Spelled also barquentine, barkantine, etc.] See Illust. in Append. 

BARKER:  The spotted redshank. 

BARKER:  One who strips trees of their bark.  BARKER'S MILL Bark"er's mill`. Etym: [From Dr. Barker, the inventor.]  A machine, invented in the 17th century, worked by a form of reaction wheel. The water flows into a vertical tube and gushes from apertures in hollow horizontal arms, causing the machine to revolve on its axis. 

BARKERY:  A tanhouse.  BARKING IRONS Bark"ing i`rons.  1. Instruments used in taking off the bark of trees. Gardner.  2. A pair of pistols. [Slang] 

BARKLESS:  Destitute of bark.  BARK LOUSE Bark" louse`. (Zoöl.)  An insect of the family Coccidæ, which infests the bark of trees and vines.  Note: The wingless females assume the shape of scales. The bark louse of vine is Pulvinaria innumerabilis; that of the pear is Lecanium pyri. See Orange scale. 

BARKY:  Covered with, or containing, bark. "The barky fingers of the elm." Shak. 

BARLEY:  A valuable grain, of the family of grasses, genus Hordeum, used for food, and for making malt, from which are prepared beer, ale, and whisky. Barley bird (Zoöl.), the siskin.  -- Barley sugar, sugar boiled till it is brittle (formerly with a decoction of barley) and candied.  -- Barley water, a decoction of barley, used in medicine, as a nutritive and demulcent.  BARLEYBRAKE; BARLEYBREAK Bar"ley*brake` Bar"ley*break`, n.  An ancient rural game, commonly played round stacks of barley, or other grain, in which some of the party attempt to catch others who run from a goal.  BARLEY-BREE Bar"ley-bree`, n. Etym: [Lit. barley broth. See Brew.]  Liquor made from barley; strong ale. [Humorous] [Scot.] Burns. 

BARM:  Foam rising upon beer, or other malt liquors, when fermenting, and used as leaven in making bread and in brewing; yeast. Shak. 

BARM:  The lap or bosom. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BARMAID:  A girl or woman who attends the customers of a bar, as in a tavern or beershop. A bouncing barmaid. W. Irving. 

BARMASTER:  Formerly, a local judge among miners; now, an officer of the barmote. [Eng.] 

BARMCLOTH:  Apron. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BARMECIDAL:  Unreal; illusory. "A sort of Barmecidal feast." Hood. 

BARMECIDE:  One who proffers some illusory advantage or benefit. Also used as an adj.: Barmecidal. "A Barmecide feast." Dickens. 

BARMOTE:  A court held in Derbyshire, in England, for deciding controversies between miners. Blount. 

BARMY:  Full of barm or froth; in a ferment. "Barmy beer." Dryden. 

BARMY:  Full of barm or froth; in a ferment. "Barmy beer."  Dryden. 

BARN:  A covered building used chiefly for storing grain, hay, and other productions of a farm. In the United States a part of the barn is often used for stables. Barn owl (Zoöl.), an owl of Europe and America (Aluco flammeus, or Strix flammea), which frequents barns and other buildings.  -- Barn swallow (Zoöl.), the common American swallow (Hirundo horreorum), which attaches its nest of mud to the beams and rafters of barns. 

BARN:  To lay up in a barn. [Obs.] Shak. Men . . . often barn up the chaff, and burn up the grain. Fuller. 

BARN:  A child. [Obs.] See Bairn. 

BARNABITE:  A member of a religious order, named from St. Barnabas. 

BARNACLE:  Any cirriped crustacean adhering to rocks, floating timber, ships, etc., esp. (a) the sessile species (genus Balanus and allies), and (b) the stalked or goose barnacles (genus Lepas and allies). See Cirripedia, and Goose barnacle. Barnacle eater (Zoöl.), the orange filefish.  -- Barnacle scale (Zoöl.), a bark louse (Ceroplastes cirripediformis) of the orange and quince trees in Florida. The female scale curiously resembles a sessile barnacle in form. 

BARNACLE:  A bernicle goose. 

BARNACLE:  An instrument for pinching a horse's nose, and thus restraining him.  Note: [Formerly used in the sing.] The barnacles . . . give pain almost equal to that of the switch. Youatt.  2. pl.  Spectacles; -- so called from their resemblance to the barnacles used by farriers. [Cant, Eng.] Dickens. 

BARNBURNER:  A member of the radical section of the Democratic party in New York, about the middle of the 19th century, which was hostile to extension of slavery, public debts, corporate privileges, etc., and supported Van Buren against Cass for president in 1848; --opposed to Hunker. [Political Cant, U. S.] 

BARNSTORMER:  An itinerant theatrical player who plays in barns when a theatre is lacking; hence, an inferior actor, or one who plays in the country away from the larger cities. --Barn"storm`ing, n. [Theatrical Cant] 

BARNYARD:  A yard belonging to a barn. 

BAROCCO:  See Baroque. 

BAROCYCLONOMETER:  An aneroid barometer for use with accompanying graphic diagrams and printed directions designed to aid mariners to interpret the indications of the barometer so as to determine the existence of a violent storm at a distance of several hundred miles. 

BAROGRAM:  A tracing, usually made by the barograph, showing graphically the variations of atmospheric pressure for a given time. 

BAROGRAPH:  An instrument for recording automatically the variations of atmospheric pressure. 

BAROKO:  A form or mode of syllogism of which the first proposition is a universal affirmative, and the other two are particular negative. 

BAROLOGY:  The science of weight or gravity. 

BAROMACROMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the weight and length of a newborn infant. 

BAROMETER:  An instrument for determining the weight or pressure of the atmosphere, and hence for judging of the probable changes of weather, or for ascertaining the height of any ascent.  Note: The barometer was invented by Torricelli at Florence about 1643. It is made in its simplest form by filling a graduated glass tube about 34 inches long with mercury and inverting it in a cup containing mercury. The column of mercury in the tube descends until balanced by the weight of the atmosphere, and its rise or fall under varying conditions is a measure of the change in the atmospheric pressure. At the sea level its ordinary height is about 30 inches (760 millimeters). See Sympiesometer. Nichol. Aneroid barometer. See Aneroid barometer, under Aneroid.  -- Marine barometer, a barometer with tube contracted at bottom to prevent rapid oscillations of the mercury, and suspended in gimbals from an arm or support on shipboard.  -- Mountain barometer, a portable mercurial barometer with tripod support, and long scale, for measuring heights.  -- Siphon barometer, a barometer having a tube bent like a hook with the longer leg closed at the top. The height of the mercury in the longer leg shows the pressure of the atmosphere.  -- Wheel barometer, a barometer with recurved tube, and a float, from which a cord passes over a pulley and moves an index.  BAROMETRIC; BAROMETRICAL Bar`o*met"ric, Bar`o*met"ric*al, a.  Pertaining to the barometer; made or indicated by a barometer; as, barometric changes; barometrical observations. 

BAROMETRICALLY:  By means of a barometer, or according to barometric observations. 

BAROMETROGRAPH:  A form of barometer so constructed as to inscribe of itself upon paper a record of the variations of atmospheric pressure. 

BAROMETRY:  The art or process of making barometrical measurements. 

BAROMETZ:  The woolly-skinned rhizoma or rootstock of a fern (Dicksonia barometz), which, when specially prepared and inverted, somewhat resembles a lamb; -- called also Scythian lamb. 

BARON:  A husband; as, baron and feme, husband and wife. [R.] Cowell. Baron of beef, two sirloins not cut asunder at the backbone.  -- Barons of the Cinque Ports, formerly members of the House of Commons, elected by the seven Cinque Ports, two for each port.  -- Baron of the exchequer, the judges of the Court of Exchequer, one of the three ancient courts of England, now abolished. 

BARONESS:  A baron's wife; also, a lady who holds the baronial title in her own right; as, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts. 

BARONET:  A dignity or degree of honor next below a baron and above a knight, having precedency of all orders of knights except those of the Garter. It is the lowest degree of honor that is hereditary. The baronets are commoners.  Note: The order was founded by James I. in 1611, and is given by patent. The word, however, in the sense of a lesser baron, was in use long before. "Baronets have the title of 'Sir' prefixed to their Christian names; their surnames being followed by their dignity, usually abbreviated Bart. Their wives are addressed as 'Lady' or 'Madam'. Their sons are possessed of no title beyond 'Esquire.'" Cussans. 

BARONETCY:  The rank or patent of a baronet. 

BARONG:  A kind of cutting weapon with a thick back and thin razorlike edge, used by the Moros of the Philippine Islands. 

BARONIAL:  Pertaining to a baron or a barony. "Baronial tenure." Hallam. 

BAROQUE:  In bad taste; grotesque; odd. 

BAROSCOPE:  Any instrument showing the changes in the weight of the atmosphere; also, less appropriately, any instrument that indicates - or foreshadows changes of the weather, as a deep vial of liquid holding in suspension some substance which rises and falls with atmospheric changes.  BAROSCOPIC; BAROSCOPICAL Bar`o*scop"ic, Bar`o*scop"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to, or determined by, the baroscope. 

BAROTHERMOGRAPH:  An instrument for recording both pressure and temperature, as of the atmosphere. 

BAROUCHE:  A four-wheeled carriage, with a falling top, a seat on the outside for the driver, and two double seats on the inside arranged so that the sitters on the front seat face those on the back seat. 

BAROUCHET:  A kind of light barouche. 

BARPOST:  A post sunk in the ground to receive the bars closing a passage into a field. 

BARQUE:  Same as 3d Bark, n. 

BARRACAN:  A thick, strong stuff, somewhat like camlet; -- still used for outer garments in the Levant. 

BARRACK:  A building for soldiers, especially when in garrison. Commonly in the pl., originally meaning temporary huts, but now usually applied to a permanent structure or set of buildings. He lodged in a miserable hut or barrack, composed of dry branches and thatched with straw. Gibbon.  2. A movable roof sliding on four posts, to cover hay, straw, etc. [Local, U.S.] 

BARRACK:  To supply with barracks; to establish in barracks; as, to barrack troops. 

BARRACK:  To live or lodge in barracks. 

BARRACLADE:  A home-made woolen blanket without nap. [Local, New York] Bartlett. 

BARRACOON:  A slave warehouse, or an inclosure where slaves are quartered temporarily. Du Chaillu.  BARRACUDA; BARRACOUTA Bar`ra*cu"da, Bar`ra*cou"ta, n.  1. (Zoöl.)  A voracious pikelike, marine fish, of the genus Sphyræna, sometimes used as food.  Note: That of Europe and our Atlantic coast is Sphyræna spet (or S. vulgaris); a southern species is S. picuda; the Californian is S. argentea.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large edible fresh-water fish of Australia and New Zealand (Thyrsites atun). 

BARRAGE:  An artificial bar or obstruction placed in a river or water course to increase the depth of water; as, the barrages of the Nile. 

BARRANCA:  A ravine caused by heavy rains or a watercourse. [Texas & N. Mex.] 

BARRAS:  A resin, called also galipot. 

BARRATOR:  One guilty of barratry. 

BARRATROUS:  Tainter with, or constituting, barratry.  -- Bar"ra*trous*ly, adv. Kent. 

BARRATRY:  The practice of exciting and encouraging lawsuits and quarrels. [Also spelt barretry.] Coke. Blackstone.  2. (Mar. Law)  A fraudulent breach of duty or willful act of known illegality on the part of a master of a ship, in his character of master, or of the mariners, to the injury of the owner of the ship or cargo, and without his consent. It includes every breach of trust committed with dishonest purpose, as by running away with the ship, sinking or deserting her, etc., or by embezzling the cargo. Kent. Part.  3. (Scots Law)  The crime of a judge who is influenced by bribery in pronouncing judgment. Wharton.  BARRED OWL Barred" owl". (Zoöl.)  A large American owl (Syrnium nebulosum); -- so called from the transverse bars of a dark brown color on the breast. 

BARREL:  The hollow basal part of a feather. Barrel bulk (Com.), a measure equal to five cubic feet, used in estimating capacity, as of a vessel for freight.  -- Barrel drain (Arch.), a drain in the form of a cylindrical tube.  -- Barrel of a boiler, the cylindrical part of a boiler, containing the flues.  -- Barrel of the ear (Anat.), the tympanum, or tympanic cavity.  -- Barrel organ, an instrument for producing music by the action of a revolving cylinder.  -- Barrel vault. See under Vault. 

BARREL:  To put or to pack in a barrel or barrels.  BARRELED; BARRELLED Bar"reled, Bar"relled, a.  Having a barrel; -- used in composition; as, a double-barreled gun.  BARREL PROCESS Bar"rel proc"ess. (Metal.)  A process of extracting gold or silver by treating the ore in a revolving barrel, or drum, with mercury, chlorine, cyanide solution, or other reagent. 

BARREN:  Elevated lands or plains on which grow small trees, but not timber; as, pine barrens; oak barrens. They are not necessarily sterile, and are often fertile. [Amer.] J. Pickering. 

BARRENLY:  Unfruitfully; unproductively. 

BARRENNESS:  The condition of being barren; sterility; unproductiveness. A total barrenness of invention. Dryden. 

BARRENWORT:  An herbaceous plant of the Barberry family (Epimedium alpinum), having leaves that are bitter and said to be sudorific. 

BARRET:  A kind of cap formerly worn by soldiers; -- called also barret cap. Also, the flat cap worn by Roman Catholic ecclesiastics. 

BARRETTER:  A thermal cymoscope which operates by increased resistance when subjected to the influence of electric waves. The original form consisted of an extremely fine platinum wire loop attached to terminals and inclosed in a small glass or silver bulb. In a later variety, called the liquid barretter, wire is replace by a column of liquid in a very fine capillary tube. 

BARRICADE:  A fortification, made in haste, of trees, earth, palisades, wagons, or anything that will obstruct the progress or attack of an enemy. It is usually an obstruction formed in streets to block an enemy's access.  2. Any bar, obstruction, or means of defense. Such a barricade as would greatly annoy, or absolutely stop, the currents of the atmosphere. Derham. 

BARRICADE:  To fortify or close with a barricade or with barricades; to stop up, as a passage; to obstruct; as, the workmen barricaded the streets of Paris. The further end whereof [a bridge] was barricaded with barrels. Hakluyt. 

BARRICADER:  One who constructs barricades. 

BARRICADO:  See Barricade. Shak. 

BARRIER:  A carpentry obstruction, stockade, or other obstacle made in a passage in order to stop an enemy.  2. A fortress or fortified town, on the frontier of a country, commanding an avenue of approach.  3. pl.  A fence or railing to mark the limits of a place, or to keep back a crowd. No sooner were the barriers opened, than he paced into the lists. Sir W. Scott.  4. An any obstruction; anything which hinders approach or attack. "Constitutional barriers." Hopkinson.  5. Any limit or boundary; a line of separation. 'Twixt that [instinct] and reason, what a nice barrier ! Pope. Barrier gate, a heavy gate to close the opening through a barrier.  -- Barrier reef, a form of coral reef which runs in the general direction of the shore, and incloses a lagoon channel more or less extensive.  -- To fight at barriers, to fight with a barrier between, as a martial exercise. [Obs.] 

BARRIGUDO:  A large, dark-colored, South American monkey, of the genus Lagothrix, having a long prehensile tail. 

BARRINGOUT:  The act of closing the doors of a schoolroom against a schoolmaster; -- a boyish mode of rebellion in schools. Swift. 

BARRIO:  In Spain and countries colonized by Spain, a village, ward, or district outside a town or city to whose jurisdiction it belongs. 

BARRISTER:  Counselor at law; a counsel admitted to plead at the bar, and undertake the public trial of causes, as distinguished from an attorney or solicitor. See Attorney. [Eng.] 

BARROOM:  A room containing a bar or counter at which liquors are sold. 

BARROW:  A wicker case, in which salt is put to drain. 

BARROW:  A hog, esp. a male hog castrated. Holland. 

BARROW:  A heap of rubbish, attle, etc. 

BARROWIST:  A follower of Henry Barrowe, one of the founders of Independency or Congregationalism in England. Barrowe was executed for nonconformity in 1953. 

BARRULET:  A diminutive of the bar, having one fourth its width. 

BARRULY:  Traversed by barrulets or small bars; -- said of the field. 

BARRY:  , Divided into bars; -- said of the field. 

BARSE:  The common perch. See 1st Bass. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

BARTENDER:  A barkeeper. 

BARTER:  To traffic or trade, by exchanging one commodity for another, in distinction from a sale and purchase, in which money is paid for the commodities transferred; to truck. 

BARTER:  To trade or exchange in the way of barter; to exchange (frequently for an unworthy consideration); to traffic; to truck; -- sometimes followed by away; as, to barter away goods or honor. 

BARTERER:  One who barters. 

BARTERY:  Barter. [Obs.] Camden. 

BARTH:  A place of shelter for cattle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  BARTHOLOMEW TIDE Bar*thol"o*mew tide`.  Time of the festival of St. Bartholomew, August 24th. Shak. 

BARTIZAN:  A small, overhanging structure for lookout or defense, usually projecting at an angle of a building or near an entrance gateway. 

BARTLETT:  A Bartlett pear, a favorite kind of pear, which originated in England about 1770, and was called Williams' Bonchrétien. It was brought to America, and distributed by Mr. Enoch Bartlett, of Dorchester, Massachusetts. 

BARTRAM:  See Bertram. Johnson. 

BARWAY:  A passage into a field or yard, closed by bars made to take out of the posts. 

BARWISE:  Horizontally. 

BARWOOD:  A red wood of a leguminous tree (Baphia nitida), from Angola and the Gaboon in Africa. It is used as a dyewood, and also for ramrods, violin bows and turner's work. 

BARYCENTRIC:  Of or pertaining to the center of gravity. See Barycentric calculus, under Calculus. 

BARYPHONY:  Difficulty of speech. 

BARYSPHERE:  The heavy interior portion of the earth, within the lithosphere. 

BARYTA:  An oxide of barium (or barytum); a heavy earth with a specific gravity above 4. 

BARYTES:  Barium sulphate, generally called heavy spar or barite. See Barite. 

BARYTIC:  Of or pertaining to baryta.  BARYTO-CALCITE Ba*ry"to-cal"cite, n. Etym: [Baryta + calcite.] (Min.)  A mineral of a white or gray color, occurring massive or crystallized. It is a compound of the carbonates of barium and calcium.  BARYTONE; BARITONE Bar"y*tone, Bar"i*tone, a. Etym: [Gr. ; heavy + tone.]  1. (Mus.)  Grave and deep, as a kind of male voice.  2. (Greek Gram.)  Not marked with an accent on the last syllable, the grave accent being understood.  BARYTONE; BARITONE Bar"y*tone, Bar"i*tone, n. Etym: [F. baryton: cf. It. baritono.]  1. (Mus.) (a) A male voice, the compass of which partakes of the common bass and the tenor, but which does not descend as low as the one, nor rise as high as the other. (b) A person having a voice of such range. (c) The viola di gamba, now entirely disused.  2. (Greek Gram.)  A word which has no accent marked on the last syllable, the grave accent being understood. 

BARYTUM:  The metal barium. See Barium. [R.] 

BASAL:  Relating to, or forming, the base. Basal cleavage. See under Cleavage.  -- Basal plane (Crystallog.), one parallel to the lateral or horizontal axis.  BASAL-NERVED Ba"sal-nerved`, a. (Bot.)  Having the nerves radiating from the base; -- said of leaves. 

BASALT:  A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinic feldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle- green particles of olivine frequently disseminated.  Note: It is usually of a greenish black color, or of some dull brown shade, or black. It constitutes immense beds in some regions, and also occurs in veins or dikes cutting through other rocks. It has often a prismatic structure as at the Giant's Causeway, in Ireland, where the columns are as regular as if the work of art. It is a very tough and heavy rock, and is one of the best materials for macadamizing roads.  2. An imitation, in pottery, of natural basalt; a kind of black porcelain. 

BASALTIC:  Pertaining to basalt; formed of, or containing, basalt; as basaltic lava. 

BASALTIFORM:  In the form of basalt; columnar. 

BASALTOID:  Formed like basalt; basaltiform. 

BASAN:  Same as Basil, a sheepskin. 

BASANITE:  Lydian stone, or black jasper, a variety of siliceous or flinty slate, of a grayish or bluish black color. It is employed to test the purity of gold, the amount of alloy being indicated by the color left on the stone when rubbed by the metal. 

BASBLEU:  A bluestocking; a literary woman. [Somewhat derisive] 

BASCINET:  A light helmet, at first open, but later made with a visor. [Written also basinet, bassinet, basnet.] 

BASCULE:  In mechanics an apparatus on the principle of the seesaw, in which one end rises as the other falls. Bascule bridge, a counterpoise or balanced drawbridge, which is opened by sinking the counterpoise and thus lifting the footway into the air. 

BASE:  Not held by honorable service; as, a base estate, one held by services not honorable; held by villenage. Such a tenure is called base, or low, and the tenant, a base tenant. Base fee, formerly, an estate held at the will of the lord; now, a qualified fee. See note under Fee, n., 4.  -- Base metal. See under Metal.  Syn.  -- Dishonorable; worthless; ignoble; low-minded; infamous; sordid; degraded.  -- Base, Vile, Mean. These words, as expressing moral qualities, are here arranged in the order of their strength, the strongest being placed first. Base marks a high degree of moral turpitude; vile and mean denote, in different degrees, the want of what is valuable or worthy of esteem. What is base excites our abhorrence; what is vile provokes our disgust or indignation; what is mean awakens contempt. Base is opposed to high-minded; vile, to noble; mean, to liberal or generous. Ingratitude is base; sycophancy is vile; undue compliances are mean. 

BASE:  That extremity of a leaf, fruit, etc., at which it is attached to its support.  5. (Chem.)  The positive, or non-acid component of a salt; a substance which, combined with an acid, neutralizes the latter and forms a salt; -- applied also to the hydroxides of the positive elements or radicals, and to certain organic bodies resembling them in their property of forming salts with acids.  6. (Pharmacy)  The chief ingredient in a compound.  7. (Dyeing)  A substance used as a mordant. Ure.  8. (Fort.)  The exterior side of the polygon, or that imaginary line which connects the salient angles of two adjacent bastions.  9. (Geom.)  The line or surface constituting that part of a figure on which it is supposed to stand.  10. (Math.)  The number from which a mathematical table is constructed; as, the base of a system of logarithms.  11. Etym: [See Base low.]  A low, or deep, sound. (Mus.) (a) The lowest part; the deepest male voice. (b) One who sings, or the instrument which plays, base. [Now commonly written bass.] The trebles squeak for fear, the bases roar. Dryden.  12. (Mil.)  A place or tract of country, protected by fortifications, or by natural advantages, from which the operations of an army proceed, forward movements are made, supplies are furnished, etc.  13. (Mil.)  The smallest kind of cannon. [Obs.]  14. (Zoöl.)  That part of an organ by which it is attached to another more central organ.  15. (Crystallog.)  The basal plane of a crystal.  16. (Geol.)  The ground mass of a rock, especially if not distinctly crystalline.  17. (Her.)  The lower part of the field. See Escutcheon.  18. The housing of a horse. [Obs.]  19. pl.  A kind of skirt ( often of velvet or brocade, but sometimes of mailed armor) which hung from the middle to about the knees, or lower. [Obs.]  20. The lower part of a robe or petticoat. [Obs.]  21. An apron. [Obs.] "Bakers in their linen bases." Marston.  22. The point or line from which a start is made; a starting place or a goal in various games. To their appointed base they went. Dryden.  23. (Surv.)  A line in a survey which, being accurately determined in length and position, serves as the origin from which to compute the distances and positions of any points or objects connected with it by a system of triangles. Lyman.  24. A rustic play; -- called also prisoner's base, prison base, or bars. "To run the country base." Shak.  25. (Baseball)  Any one of the four bounds which mark the circuit of the infield. Altern base. See under Altern.  -- Attic base. (Arch.) See under Attic.  -- Base course. (Arch.) (a) The first or lower course of a foundation wall, made of large stones of a mass of concrete; -- called also foundation course. (b) The architectural member forming the transition between the basement and the wall above.  -- Base hit (Baseball), a hit, by which the batsman, without any error on the part of his opponents, is able to reach the first base without being put out.  -- Base line. (a) A main line taken as a base, as in surveying or in military operations. (b) A line traced round a cannon at the rear of the vent.  -- Base plate, the foundation plate of heavy machinery, as of the steam engine; the bed plate.  -- Base ring (Ordnance), a projecting band of metal around the breech, connected with the body of the gun by a concave molding. H. L. Scott. 

BASE:  To put on a base or basis; to lay the foundation of; to found, as an argument or conclusion; -- used with on or upon. Bacon. 

BASEBOARD:  A board, or other woodwork, carried round the walls of a room and touching the floor, to form a base and protect the plastering; -- also called washboard (in England), mopboard, and scrubboard. 

BASEBORN:  A furnace or stove in which the fuel is contained in a hopper or chamber, and is fed to the fire as the lower stratum is consumed.  BASE-COURT Base"-court`, n. Etym: [F. basse-cour. See Base, a., and Court, n.]  1. The secondary, inferior, or rear courtyard of a large house; the outer court of a castle.  2. (Law)  An inferior court of law, not of record. 

BASED:  Wearing, or protected by, bases. [Obs.] "Based in lawny velvet." E. Hall.  BASEDOW'S DISEASE Ba"se*dow's dis*ease". Etym: [Named for Dr. Basedow, a German physician.] (Med.)  A disease characterized by enlargement of the thyroid gland, prominence of the eyeballs, and inordinate action of the heart; -- called also exophthalmic goiter. Flint. 

BASELARD:  A short sword or dagger, worn in the fifteenth century. [Written also baslard.] Fairholt. 

BASELESS:  Without a base; having no foundation or support. "The baseless fabric of this vision." Shak. 

BASEMENT:  The outer wall of the ground story of a building, or of a part of that story, when treated as a distinct substructure. ( See Base, n., 3 (a).) Hence: The rooms of a ground floor, collectively. Basement membrane (Anat.), a delicate membrane composed of a single layer of flat cells, forming the substratum upon which, in many organs, the epithelioid cells are disposed. 

BASENESS:  The quality or condition of being base; degradation; vileness. I once did hold it a baseness to write fair. Shak. 

BASENET:  See Bascinet. [Obs.]  BASE VIOL Base" vi`ol.  See Bass viol. 

BASH:  To abash; to disconcert or be disconcerted or put out of countenance. [Obs.] His countenance was bold and bashed not. Spenser. 

BASHAW:  A very large siluroid fish (Leptops olivaris) of the Mississippi valley; -- also called goujon, mud cat, and yellow cat. 

BASHFULLY:  In a bashful manner. 

BASHFULNESS:  The quality of being bashful.  Syn.  -- Bashfulness, Modesty, Diffidence, Shyness. Modesty arises from a low estimate of ourselves; bashfulness is an abashment or agitation of the spirits at coming into contact with others; diffidence is produced by an undue degree of self-distrust; shyness usually arises from an excessive self-consciousness, and a painful impression that every one is looking at us. Modesty of deportment is becoming at all; bashfulness often gives rise to mistakes and blundering; diffidence is society frequently makes a man a burden to himself; shyness usually produces a reserve or distance which is often mistaken for haughtiness.  BASHI-BAZOUK Bash"i-ba*zouk", n. Etym: [Turkish, light-headed, a foolish fellow.]  A soldier belonging to the irregular troops of the Turkish army. 

BASHLESS:  Shameless; unblushing. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BASHYLE:  See Basyle.  BASI- Ba"si-.  A combining form, especially in anatomical and botanical words, to indicate the base or position at or near a base; forming a base; as, basibranchials, the most ventral of the cartilages or bones of the branchial arches; basicranial, situated at the base of the cranium; basifacial, basitemporal, etc. 

BASIC:  Said of crystalline rocks which contain a relatively low percentage of silica, as basalt. Basic salt (Chem.), a salt formed from a base or hydroxide by the partial replacement of its hydrogen by a negative or acid element or radical. 

BASICERITE:  The second joint of the antennæ of crustaceans. 

BASICITY:  A Bessemer or open-hearth steel-making process in which a lining that is basic, or not siliceous, is used, and additions of basic material are made to the molten charge during treatment. Opposed to acid process, above. Called also Thomas process.  BASIC SLAG Basic slag.  A by-product from the manufacture of steel by the basic process, used as a fertilizer. It is rich in lime and contains 14 to 20 per cent of phosphoric acid. Called also Thomas slag, phosphatic slag, and odorless phosphate.  BASIC STEEL Basic steel.  Steel produced by the basic process. 

BASIDIOMYCETES:  A large subdivision of fungi coördinate with the Ascomycetes, characterized by having the spores borne on a basidium. It embraces those fungi best known to the public, such as mushrooms, toadstools, etc. 

BASIDIOSPORE:  A spore borne by a basidium.  -- Ba*sid`i*o*spor"ous (, a. 

BASIDIUM:  A special oblong or pyriform cell, with slender branches, which bears the spores in that division of fungi called Basidiomycetes, of which the common mushroom is an example. 

BASIFIER:  That which converts into a salifiable base. 

BASIFUGAL:  Tending or proceeding away from the base; as, a basifugal growth. 

BASIFY:  To convert into a salifiable base. 

BASIGYNIUM:  The pedicel on which the ovary of certain flowers, as the passion flower, is seated; a carpophore or thecaphore. 

BASIHYAL:  Noting two small bones, forming the body of the inverted hyoid arch. 

BASIHYOID:  The central tongue bone. 

BASIL:  The slope or angle to which the cutting edge of a tool, as a plane, is ground. Grier. 

BASIL:  To grind or form the edge of to an angle. Moxon. 

BASIL:  The name given to several aromatic herbs of the Mint family, but chiefly to the common or sweet basil (Ocymum basilicum), and the bush basil, or lesser basil (O. minimum), the leaves of which are used in cookery. The name is also given to several kinds of mountain mint (Pycnanthemum). Basil thyme, a name given to the fragrant herbs Calamintha Acinos and C. Nepeta.  -- Wild basil, a plant (Calamintha clinopodium) of the Mint family. 

BASIL:  The skin of a sheep tanned with bark.  BASILAR; BASILARY Bas"i*lar, Bas"i*la*ry, a. Etym: [F. basilaire, fr. L. basis. See Base, n.]  1. Relating to, or situated at, the base.  2. Lower; inferior; applied to impulses or springs of action. [R.] "Basilar instincts." H. W. Beecher. 

BASILIC:  Basilica.  BASILIC; BASILICAL Ba*sil"ic, Ba*sil"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Basilica.]  1. Royal; kingly; also, basilican.  2. (Anat.)  Pertaining to certain parts, anciently supposed to have a specially important function in the animal economy, as the middle vein of the right arm. 

BASILICA:  Originally, the place of a king; but afterward, an apartment provided in the houses of persons of importance, where assemblies were held for dispensing justice; and hence, any large hall used for this purpose.  2. (Arch.) (a) A building used by the Romans as a place of public meeting, with court rooms, etc., attached. (b) A church building of the earlier centuries of Christianity, the plan of which was taken from the basilica of the Romans. The name is still applied to some churches by way of honorary distinction. 

BASILICA:  A digest of the laws of Justinian, translated from the original Latin into Greek, by order of Basil I., in the ninth century. P. Cyc. 

BASILICAN:  Of, relating to, or resembling, a basilica; basilical. There can be no doubt that the first churches in Constantinople were in the basilican form. Milman. 

BASILICOK:  The basilisk. [Obs.] Chaucer 

BASILICON:  An ointment composed of wax, pitch, resin, and olive oil, lard, or other fatty substance. 

BASILISK:  A lizard of the genus Basiliscus, belonging to the family Iguanidæ.  Note: This genus is remarkable for a membranous bag rising above the occiput, which can be filled with air at pleasure; also for an elevated crest along the back, that can be raised or depressed at will.  3. (Mil.)  A large piece of ordnance, so called from its supposed resemblance to the serpent of that name, or from its size. [Obs.] 

BASIN:  An isolated or circumscribed formation, particularly where the strata dip inward, on all sides, toward a center; -- especially applied to the coal formations, called coal basins or coal fields. 

BASINED:  Inclosed in a basin. "Basined rivers." Young. 

BASINET:  Same as Bascinet. 

BASIOCCIPITAL:  Of or pertaining to the bone in the base of the cranium, frequently forming a part of the occipital in the adult, but usually distinct in the young.  -- n.  The basioccipital bone. 

BASION:  The middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen of the skull. 

BASIPODITE:  The basal joint of the legs of Crustacea. 

BASIPTERYGIUM:  A bar of cartilage at the base of the embryonic fins of some fishes. It develops into the metapterygium.  -- Ba*sip`ter*yg"i*al (, a. 

BASIPTERYGOID:  Applied to a protuberance of the base of the sphenoid bone. 

BASISOLUTE:  Prolonged at the base, as certain leaves.  BASISPHENOID; BASISPHENOIDAL Ba`si*sphe"noid, Ba`si*sphe*noid"al, a. Etym: [Basi- + spheroid.] (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to that part of the base of the cranium between the basioccipital and the presphenoid, which usually ossifies separately in the embryo or in the young, and becomes a part of the sphenoid in the adult. 

BASISPHENOID:  The basisphenoid bone. 

BASK:  To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat. Basks in the glare, and stems the tepid wave. Goldsmith. 

BASK:  To warm by continued exposure to heat; to warm with genial heat. Basks at the fire his hairy strength. Milton. 

BASKET:  The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital. [Improperly so used.] Gwilt.  4. The two back seats facing one another on the outside of a stagecoach. [Eng.] Goldsmith. Basket fish (Zoöl.), an ophiuran of the genus Astrophyton, having the arms much branched. See Astrophyton.  -- Basket hilt, a hilt with a covering wrought like basketwork to protect the hand. Hudibras. Hence, Baskethilted, a.  -- Basket work, work consisting of plaited osiers or twigs.  -- Basket worm (Zoöl.), a lepidopterous insect of the genus Thyridopteryx and allied genera, esp. T. ephemeræformis. The larva makes and carries about a bag or basket-like case of silk and twigs, which it afterwards hangs up to shelter the pupa and wingless adult females. 

BASKET:  To put into a basket. [R.]  BASKET BALL Bas"ket ball`.  A game, usually played indoors, in which two parties of players contest with each other to toss a large inflated ball into opposite goals resembling baskets. 

BASKETFUL:  As much as a basket will contain. 

BASKETRY:  The art of making baskets; also, baskets, taken collectively.  BASKING SHARK Bask"ing shark`. (Zoöl.)  One of the largest species of sharks (Cetorhinus maximus), so called from its habit of basking in the sun; the liver shark, or bone shark. It inhabits the northern seas of Europe and America, and grows to a length of more than forty feet. It is a harmless species. 

BASNET:  Same as Bascinet. 

BASOMMATOPHORA:  A group of Pulmonifera having the eyes at the base of the tentacles, including the common pond snails. 

BASON:  A basin. [Obs. or Special form] 

BASQUE:  Pertaining to Biscay, its people, or their language. 

BASQUISH:  Pertaining to the country, people, or language of Biscay; Basque [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  BAS-RELIEF Bas`-re*lief", n. Etym: [F. bas-relief; bas law + relief raised work, relever to raise: cf. It. bassorilievo.]  Low relief; sculpture, the figures of which project less than half of their true proportions; -- called also bassrelief and basso- rilievo. See Alto-rilievo. 

BASS:  ; pl. Bass, and sometimes Basses. Etym: [A corruption of barse.] (Zoöl.)  1. An edible, spiny-finned fish, esp. of the genera Roccus, Labrax, and related genera. There are many species.  Note: The common European bass is Labrax lupus. American species are: the striped bass (Roccus lineatus); white or silver bass of the lakes. (R. chrysops); brass or yellow bass (R. interruptus).  2. The two American fresh-water species of black bass (genus Micropterus). See Black bass.  3. Species of Serranus, the sea bass and rock bass. See Sea bass.  4. The southern, red, or channel bass (Sciæna ocellata). See Redfish.  Note: The name is also applied to many other fishes. See Calico bass, under Calico. 

BASS:  The linden or lime tree, sometimes wrongly called whitewood; also, its bark, which is used for making mats. See Bast.  2. (Pron.  A hassock or thick mat. 

BASS:  Deep or grave in tone. Bass clef (Mus.), the character placed at the beginning of the staff containing the bass part of a musical composition. [See Illust. under Clef.] -- Bass voice, a deepsounding voice; a voice fitted for singing bass. 

BASS:  To sound in a deep tone. [R.] Shak.  BASSA; BASSAW Bas"sa, Bas*saw", n.  See Bashaw.  BASS DRUM Bass` drum". (Mus.)  The largest of the different kinds of drums, having two heads, and emitting a deep, grave sound. See Bass, a. 

BASSET:  A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have been invented at Venice. Some dress, some dance, some play, not to forget Your piquet parties, and your dear basset. Rowe. 

BASSET:  Inclined upward; as, the basset edge of strata. Lyell. 

BASSET:  The edge of a geological stratum at the surface of the ground; the outcrop. 

BASSET:  To inclined upward so as to appear at the surface; to crop out; as, a vein of coal bassets.  BASSET HORN Bas"set horn`. Etym: [See Basset, a.] (Mus.)  An instrument blown with a reed, and resembling a clarinet, but of much greater compass, embracing nearly four octaves.  BASSET HOUND Bas"set hound`. Etym: [F. basset.] (Zoöl.)  A small kind of hound with a long body and short legs, used as an earth dog. 

BASSETING:  The upward direction of a vein in a mine; the emergence of a stratum at the surface. 

BASSETTO:  A tenor or small bass viol.  BASS HORN Bass" horn". (Mus.)  A modification of the bassoon, much deeper in tone. 

BASSOCK:  A hassock. See 2d Bass, 2. 

BASSOON:  A wind instrument of the double reed kind, furnished with holes, which are stopped by the fingers, and by keys, as in flutes. It forms the natural bass to the oboe, clarinet, etc.  Note: Its compass comprehends three octaves. For convenience of carriage it is divided into two parts; whence it is also called a fagot. 

BASSOONIST:  A performer on the bassoon. Busby.  BASSO-RILIEVO; BASSO-RELIEVO Bas"so-ri*lie"vo, Bas"so-re*lie"vo, n. Etym: [It. basso-rilievo.]  Same as Bas-relief. 

BASSORIN:  A constituent part of a species of gum from Bassora, as also of gum tragacanth and some gum resins. It is one of the amyloses. Ure.  BASS-RELIEF Bass"-re*lief`, n.  Some as Bas-relief.  BASS VIOL Bass" vi`ol. (Mus.)  A stringed instrument of the viol family, used for playing bass. See 3d Bass, n., and Violoncello. 

BASSWOOD:  The bass (Tilia) or its wood; especially, T. Americana. See Bass, the lime tree. All the bowls were made of basswood, White and polished very smoothly. Longfellow. 

BASTA:  Enough; stop. Shak. 

BASTARD:  Abbreviated, as the half title in a page preceding the full title page of a book. Bastard ashlar (Arch.), stones for ashlar work, roughly squared at the quarry.  -- Bastard file, a file intermediate between the coarsest and the second cut.  -- Bastard type (Print.), type having the face of a larger or a smaller size than the body; e.g., a nonpareil face on a brevier body.  -- Bastard wing (Zoöl.), three to five quill feathers on a small joint corresponding to the thumb in some mam malia; the alula. 

BASTARD:  To bastardize. [Obs.] Bacon. 

BASTARDISM:  The state of being a bastard; bastardy. 

BASTARDLY:  Bastardlike; baseborn; spuripous; corrupt. [Obs.] -- adv.  In the manner of a bastard; spuriously. [Obs.] Shak. Donne. 

BASTE:  To sprinkle flour and salt and drip butter or fat on, as on meat in roasting.  3. To mark with tar, as sheep. [Prov. Eng.] 

BASTE:  To sew loosely, or with long stitches; -- usually, that the work may be held in position until sewed more firmly. Shak.  BASTILE; BASTILLE Bas*tile" Bas*tille", n. Etym: [F. bastille fortress, OF. bastir to build, F. b.]  1. (Feud. Fort.)  A tower or an elevated work, used for the defense, or in the siege, of a fortified place. The high bastiles . . . which overtopped the walls. Holland.  2. "The Bastille", formerly a castle or fortress in Paris, used as a prison, especially for political offenders; hence, a rhetorical name for a prison. 

BASTINADE:  See Bastinado, n. 

BASTINADE:  To bastinado. [Archaic] 

BASTINADO:  To beat with a stick or cudgel, especially on the soles of the feet. 

BASTION:  A work projecting outward from the main inclosure of a fortification, consisting of two faces and two flanks, and so constructed that it is able to defend by a flanking fire the adjacent curtain, or wall which extends from one bastion to another. Two adjacent bastions are connected by the curtain, which joins the flank of one with the adjacent flank of the other. The distance between the flanks of a bastion is called the gorge. A lunette is a detached bastion. See Ravelin. 

BASTIONED:  Furnished with a bastion; having bastions. 

BASTO:  The ace of clubs in qua Pope. 

BASTON:  See Baton.  3. An officer bearing a painted staff, who formerly was in attendance upon the king's court to take into custody persons committed by the court. Mozley & W. 

BASUTOS:  A warlike South African people of the Bantu stock, divided into many tribes, subject to the English. They formerly practiced cannibalism, but have now adopted many European customs. 

BASYLE:  A positive or nonacid constituent of compound, either elementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element. 

BASYLOUS:  Pertaining to, or having the nature of, a basyle; electro- positive; basic; -- opposed to chlorous. Graham. 

BAT:  Shale or bituminous shale. Kirwan.  3. A sheet of cotton used for filling quilts or comfortables; batting.  4. A part of a brick with one whole end. Bat bolt (Machinery), a bolt barbed or jagged at its butt or tang to make it hold the more firmly. Knight. 

BAT:  To strike or hit with a bat or a pole; to cudgel; to beat. Holland. 

BAT:  To use a bat, as in a game of baseball. 

BAT:  One of the Cheiroptera, an order of flying mammals, in which the wings are formed by a membrane stretched between the elongated fingers, legs, and tail. The common bats are small and insectivorous. See Cheiroptera and Vampire. Bat tick (Zoöl.), a wingless, dipterous insect of the genus Nycteribia, parasitic on bats. 

BATABLE:  Disputable. [Obs.]  Note: The border land between England and Scotland, being formerly a subject of contention, was called batable or debatable ground. 

BATAILLED:  Embattled. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BATARDEAU:  A wall built across the ditch of a fortification, with a sluice gate to regulate the height of water in the ditch on both sides of the wall.  BATATAS; BATATA Ba*ta"tas, Ba*ta"ta, n.  An aboriginal American name for the sweet potato (Ipomæa batatas). 

BATAVIAN:  Of or pertaining to (a) the Batavi, an ancient Germanic tribe; or to (b) as, a Batavian legion. Batavian Republic, the name given to Holland by the French after its conquest in 1795. 

BATAVIAN:  A native or inhabitant of Batavia or Holland. [R.] Bancroft. 

BATE:  Strife; contention. [Obs.] Shak. 

BATE:  To attack; to bait. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BATE:  of Bite. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BATE:  To flutter as a hawk; to bait. [Obs.] Bacon. 

BATE:  See 2d Bath. 

BATE:  An alkaline solution consisting of the dung of certain animals; -- employed in the preparation of hides; grainer. Knight. 

BATE:  To steep in bate, as hides, in the manufacture of leather. 

BATEAU:  A boat; esp. a flat-bottomed, clumsy boat used on the Canadian lakes and rivers. [Written also, but less properly, batteau.] Bateau bridge, a floating bridge supported by bateaux. 

BATED:  Reduced; lowered; restrained; as, to speak with bated breath. Macaulay. 

BATEFUL:  Exciting contention; contentious. [Obs.] "It did bateful question frame. " Sidney. 

BATELESS:  Not to be abated. [Obs.] Shak. 

BATEMENT:  Abatement; diminution. Moxon. Batement light (Arch.), a window or one division of a window having vertical sides, but with the sill not horizontal, as where it follows the rake of a staircase. 

BATFISH:  A name given to several species of fishes: (a) The Malthe vespertilio of the Atlantic coast. (b) The flying gurnard of the Atlantic (Cephalacanthus spinarella). (c) The California batfish or sting ray (Myliobatis Californicus.) 

BATFOWLER:  One who practices or finds sport in batfowling. 

BATFOWLING:  A mode of catching birds at night, by holding a torch or other light, and beating the bush or perch where they roost. The birds, flying to the light, are caught with nets or otherwise. 

BATFUL:  Rich; fertile. [Obs.] "Batful valleys." Drayton. 

BATH:  A medium, as heated sand, ashes, steam, hot air, through which heat is applied to a body.  6. (Photog.)  A solution in which plates or prints are immersed; also, the receptacle holding the solution.  Note: Bath is used adjectively or in combination, in an obvious sense of or for baths or bathing; as, bathroom, bath tub, bath keeper. Douche bath. See Douche.  -- Order of the Bath, a high order of British knighthood, composed of three classes, viz., knights grand cross, knights commanders, and knights companions, abbreviated thus: G. C. B., K. C. B., K. B.  -- Russian bath, a kind of vapor bath which consists in a prolonged exposure of the body to the influence of the steam of water, followed by washings and shampooings.  -- Turkish bath, a kind of bath in which a profuse perspiration is produced by hot air, after which the body is washed and shampooed.  -- Bath house, a house used for the purpose of bathing; -- also a small house, near a bathing place, where a bather undresses and dresses. 

BATH:  A Hebrew measure containing the tenth of a homer, or five gallons and three pints, as a measure for liquids; and two pecks and five quarts, as a dry measure. 

BATH:  A city in the west of England, resorted to for its hot springs, which has given its name to various objects. Bath brick, a preparation of calcareous earth, in the form of a brick, used for cleaning knives, polished metal, etc.  -- Bath chair, a kind of chair on wheels, as used by invalids at Bath. "People walked out, or drove out, or were pushed out in their Bath chairs." Dickens.  -- Bath metal, an alloy consisting of four and a half ounces of zinc and one pound of copper.  -- Bath note, a folded writing paper, 8 1/2 by 14 inches.  -- Bath stone, a species of limestone (oölite) found near Bath, used for building. 

BATHE:  The immersion of the body in water; as to take one's usual bathe. Edin. Rev. 

BATHER:  One who bathes. 

BATHETIC:  Having the character of bathos. [R.] 

BATHING:  Act of taking a bath or baths. Bathing machine, a small room on wheels, to be driven into the water, for the convenience of bathers, who undress and dress therein. 

BATHMISM:  See Vital force. 

BATHOMETER:  An instrument for measuring depths, esp. one for taking soundings without a sounding line. 

BATHORSE:  A horse which carries an officer's baggage during a campaign. 

BATHOS:  A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing or speech; anticlimax. 

BATHYBIUS:  A name given by Prof. Huxley to a gelatinous substance found in mud dredged from the Atlantic and preserved in alcohol. He supposed that it was free living protoplasm, covering a large part of the ocean bed. It is now known that the substance is of chemical, not of organic, origin. 

BATHYGRAPHIC:  Descriptive of the ocean depth; as, a bathygraphic chart.  BATHYMETRIC; BATHYMETRICAL Bath`y*met"ric, Bath`y*met"ric*al, a.  Pertaining to bathymetry; relating to the measurement of depths, especially of depths in the sea. 

BATHYMETRY:  The art or science of sounding, or measuring depths in the sea. 

BATING:  With the exception of; excepting. We have little reason to think that they bring many ideas with them, bating some faint ideas of hunger and thirst. Locke. 

BATISTE:  Originally, cambric or lawn of fine linen; now applied also to cloth of similar texture made of cotton. 

BATLET:  A short bat for beating clothes in washing them; -- called also batler, batling staff, batting staff. Shak. 

BATMAN:  A weight used in the East, varying according to the locality; in Turkey, the greater batman is about 157 pounds, the lesser only a fourth of this; at Aleppo and Smyrna, the batman is 17 pounds. Simmonds. 

BATMAN:  A man who has charge of a bathorse and his load. Macaulay. 

BATOIDEI:  The division of fishes which includes the rays and skates. 

BATON:  An ordinary with its ends cut off, borne sinister as a mark of bastardy, and containing one fourth in breadth of the bend sinister; -- called also bastard bar. See Bend sinister. 

BATOON:  See Baton, and Baston.  BAT PRINTING Bat" print`ing. (Ceramics)  A mode of printing on glazed ware. 

BATRACHIA:  The order of amphibians which includes the frogs and toads; the Anura. Sometimes the word is used in a wider sense as equivalent to Amphibia. 

BATRACHIAN:  Pertaining to the Batrachia.  -- n.  One of the Batrachia. 

BATRACHOID:  Froglike. Specifically: Of or pertaining to the Batrachidæ, a family of marine fishes, including the toadfish. Some have poisonous dorsal spines. 

BATRACHOMYOMACHY:  The battle between the frogs and mice; -- a Greek parody on the Iliad, of uncertain authorship. 

BATRACHOPHAGOUS:  Feeding on frogs. Quart. Rev. 

BATSMAN:  The one who wields the bat in cricket, baseball, etc.  BAT'S-WING; BATWING Bat's"-wing" or Bat"wing, a.  Shaped like a bat's wing; as, a bat's-wing burner. 

BATTA:  Extra pay; esp. an extra allowance to an English officer serving in India. Whitworth. 

BATTA:  Rate of exchange; also, the discount on uncurrent coins. [India] 

BATTABLE:  Capable of culti [Obs.] Burton. 

BATTAILANT:  Prepared for battle; combatant; warlike. Spenser.  -- n.  A combatant. Shelton. 

BATTAILOUS:  Arrayed for battle; fit or eager for battle; warlike. [Obs.] "In battailous aspect." Milton. 

BATTALION:  A regiment, or two or more companies of a regiment, esp. when assembled for drill or battle. 

BATTALION:  To form into battalions. [R.] 

BATTEL:  A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel, under Wager. 

BATTEL:  Provisions ordered from the buttery; also, the charges for them; -- only in the pl., except when used adjectively. [Univ. of Oxford, Eng.] 

BATTEL:  To be supplied with provisions from the buttery. [Univ. of Oxford, Eng.] 

BATTEL:  To make fertile. [Obs.] "To battel barren land." Ray. 

BATTEL:  Fertile; fruitful; productive. [Obs.] A battel soil for grain, for pasture good. Fairfax.  BATTELER; BATTLER Bat"tel*er, Bat"tler, n. Etym: [See 2d Battel, n.]  A student at Oxford who is supplied with provisions from the buttery; formerly, one who paid for nothing but what he called for, answering nearly to a sizar at Cambridge. Wright. 

BATTEN:  To grow fat; to grow fat in ease and luxury; to glut one's self. Dryden. The pampered monarch lay battening in ease. Garth. Skeptics, with a taste for carrion, who batten on the hideous facts in history, -- persecutions, inquisitions. Emerson. 

BATTEN:  A strip of sawed stuff, or a scantling; as, (a) pl. (Com. & Arch.) Sawed timbers about 7 by 2 1/2 inches and not less than 6 feet long. Brande & C. (b) (Naut.) A strip of wood used in fastening the edges of a tarpaulin to the deck, also around masts to prevent chafing. (c) A long, thin strip used to strengthen a part, to cover a crack, etc. Batten door (Arch.), a door made of boards of the whole length of the door, secured by battens nailed crosswise. 

BATTEN:  To furnish or fasten with battens. To batten down, to fasten down with battens, as the tarpaulin over the hatches of a ship during a storm. 

BATTEN:  The movable bar of a loom, which strikes home or closes the threads of a woof. 

BATTENING:  Furring done with small pieces nailed directly upon the wall. 

BATTER:  To flatten (metal) by hammering, so as to compress it inwardly and spread it outwardly. 

BATTER:  A bruise on the face of a plate or of type in the form. 

BATTER:  A backward slope in the face of a wall or of a bank; receding slope. Batter rule, an instrument consisting of a rule or frame, and a plumb line, by which the batter or slope of a wall is regulated in building. 

BATTER:  To slope gently backward. 

BATTER:  One who wields a bat; a batsman. 

BATTERER:  One who, or that which, batters.  BATTERING-RAM Bat"ter*ing-ram`, n.  1. (Mil.) An engine used in ancient times to beat down the walls of besieged places.  Note: It was a large beam, with a head of iron, which was sometimes made to resemble the head of a ram. It was suspended by ropes t a beam supported by posts, and so balanced as to swing backward and forward, and was impelled by men against the wall. Grose.  2. A blacksmith's hammer, suspended, and worked horizontally.  BATTERING TRAIN Bat"ter*ing train`. (Mil.)  A train of artillery for siege operations. 

BATTERY:  The unlawful beating of another. It includes every willful, angry and violent, or negligent touching of another's person or clothes, or anything attached to his person or held by him.  3. (Mil.) (a) Any place where cannon or mortars are mounted, for attack or defense. (b) Two or more pieces of artillery in the field. (c) A company or division of artillery, including the gunners, guns, horses, and all equipments. In the United States, a battery of flying artillery consists usually of six guns. Barbette battery. See Barbette.  -- Battery d'enfilade, or Enfilading battery, one that sweeps the whole length of a line of troops or part of a work.  -- Battery en écharpe, one that plays obliquely.  -- Battery gun, a gun capable of firing a number, of shots simultaneously or successively without stopping to load.  -- Battery wagon, a wagon employed to transport the tools and materials for repair of the carriages, etc., of the battery.  -- In battery, projecting, as a gun, into an embrasure or over a parapet in readiness for firing.  -- Masked battery, a battery artificially concealed until required to open upon the enemy.  -- Out of battery, or From battery, withdrawn, as a gun, to a position for loading.  4. (Elec.) (a) A number of coated jars (Leyden jars) so connected that they may be charged and discharged simultaneously. (b) An apparatus for generating voltaic electricity.  Note: In the trough battery, copper and zinc plates, connected in pairs, divide the trough into cells, which are filled with an acid or oxidizing liquid; the effect is exhibited when wires connected with the two end-plates are brought together. In Daniell's battery, the metals are zinc and copper, the former in dilute sulphuric acid, or a solution of sulphate of zinc, the latter in a saturated solution of sulphate of copper. A modification of this is the common gravity battery, so called from the automatic action of the two fluids, which are separated by their specific gravities. In Grove's battery, platinum is the metal used with zinc; two fluids are used, one of them in a porous cell surrounded by the other. In Bunsen's or the carbon battery, the carbon of gas coke is substituted for the platinum of Grove's. In Leclanché's battery, the elements are zinc in a solution of ammonium chloride, and gas carbon surrounded with manganese dioxide in a porous cell. A secondary battery is a battery which usually has the two plates of the same kind, generally of lead, in dilute sulphuric acid, and which, when traversed by an electric current, becomes charged, and is then capable of giving a current of itself for a time, owing to chemical changes produced by the charging current. A storage battery is a kind of secondary battery used for accumulating and storing the energy of electrical charges or currents, usually by means of chemical work done by them; an accumulator.  5. A number of similar machines or devices in position; an apparatus consisting of a set of similar parts; as, a battery of boilers, of retorts, condensers, etc.  6. (Metallurgy)  A series of stamps operated by one motive power, for crushing ores containing the precious metals. Knight.  7. The box in which the stamps for crushing ore play up and down.  8. (Baseball)  The pitcher and catcher together. 

BATTLE:  Fertile. See Battel, a. [Obs.] 

BATTLE:  To join in battle; to contend in fight; as, to battle over theories. To meet in arms, and battle in the plain. Prior. 

BATTLE:  To assail in battle; to fight.  BATTLE-AX; BATTLE-AXE Bat"tle-ax` Bat"tle-axe`, n. (Mil.)  A kind of broadax formerly used as an offensive weapon. 

BATTLED:  Embattled. [Poetic] Tennyson. 

BATTLEDOOR:  A child's hornbook. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

BATTLEMENTED:  Having battlements. A battlemented portal. Sir W. Scott.  BATTLE RANGE Bat"tle range`. (Mil.)  The range within which the fire of small arms is very destructive. With the magazine rifle, this is six hundred yards.  BATTLE SHIP Battle ship. (Nav.)  An armor-plated man-of-war built of steel and heavily armed, generally having from ten thousand to fifteen thousand tons displacement, and intended to be fit to meet the heaviest ships in line of battle. 

BATTOLOGIST:  One who battologizes. 

BATTOLOGIZE:  To keep repeating needlessly; to iterate. Sir T. Herbert. 

BATTOLOGY:  A needless repetition of words in speaking or writing. Milton. 

BATTON:  See Batten, and Baton. 

BATTURE:  An elevated river bed or sea bed. 

BATTUTA:  The measuring of time by beating. 

BATTY:  Belonging to, or resembling, a bat. "Batty wings." Shak. 

BATULE:  A springboard in a circus or gymnasium; -- called also batule board. 

BATZ:  A small copper coin, with a mixture of silver, formerly current in some parts of Germany and Switzerland. It was worth about four cents. 

BAUBEE:  Same as Bawbee. 

BAUBLING:  , a. See Bawbling. [Obs.] 

BAUDEKIN:  The richest kind of stuff used in garments in the Middle Ages, the web being gold, and the woof silk, with embroidery : -- made originally at Bagdad. [Spelt also baudkin, baudkyn, bawdekin, and baldakin.] Nares. 

BAUDRICK:  A belt. See Baldric.  BAUK; BAULK Bauk, Baulk, n. & v.  See Balk. 

BAUME:  Designating or conforming to either of the scales used by the French chemist Antoine Baumé in the graduation of his hydrometers; of or relating to Baumé's scales or hydrometers. There are two Baumé hydrometers. One, which is used with liquids heavier than water, sinks to 0º in pure water, and to 15º in a 15 per cent salt solution; the other, for liquids lighter than water, sinks to 0º in a 10 per cent salt solution and to 10º in pure water. In both cases the graduation, based on the distance between these fundamental points, is continued along the stem as far as desired. Since all the degrees on a Baumé scale are thus equal in length, while those on a specific- gravity scale grow smaller as the density increases, there is no simple relation between degrees Bé. and Sp. gr. However, readings on Baumés scale may be approximately reduced to specific gravities by the following formulæ (x in each case being the reading on Baumé's scale) : (a) for liquids heavier than water, sp. gr. = 144 ÷ (144 - x);  (b) for liquids lighter than water, sp. gr. = 144 ÷ (134 + x). 

BAUNSCHEIDTISM:  A form of acupuncture, followed by the rubbing of the part with a stimulating fluid.  BAUXITE; BEAUXITE Baux"ite, Beaux"ite,n. Etym: [F., fr. Baux or Beaux, near Arles.] (Min.)  A ferruginous hydrate of alumina. It is largely used in the preparation of aluminium and alumina, and for the lining of furnaces which are exposed to intense heat. 

BAVARDAGE:  Much talking; prattle; chatter.  Byron. 

BAVARIAN:  Of or pertaining to Bavaria.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Bavaria. Bavarian cream. See under Cream. 

BAVAROY:  A kind of cloak or surtout. [Obs.] Johnson. Let the looped bavaroy the fop embrace. Gay. 

BAVIAN:  A baboon. 

BAWBEE:  A halfpenny. [Spelt also baubee.] [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 

BAWBLE:  A trinket. See Bauble. 

BAWBLING:  Insignificant; contemptible. [Obs.] 

BAWCOCK:  A fine fellow; -- a term of endearment. [Obs.] "How now, my bawcock " Shak. 

BAWD:  A person who keeps a house of prostitution, or procures women for a lewd purpose; a procurer or procuress; a lewd person; -- usually applied to a woman. 

BAWD:  To procure women for lewd purposes. 

BAWDILY:  Obscenely; lewdly. 

BAWDINESS:  Obscenity; lewdness. 

BAWDRICK:  A belt. See Baldric. 

BAWDYHOUSE:  A house of prostitution; a house of ill fame; a brothel. 

BAWHORSE:  Same as Bathorse. 

BAWL:  To proclaim with a loud voice, or by outcry, as a hawker or town-crier does. Swift. 

BAWL:  A loud, prolonged cry; an outcry. 

BAWLER:  One who bawls. 

BAWREL:  A kind of hawk. [Obs.] Halliwell.  BAWSIN; BAWSON Baw"sin, Baw"son, n. Etym: [OE. bawson, baucyne, badger (named from its color), OF. bauzan, baucant, bauchant, spotted with white, pied; cf. It. balzano, F. balzan, a white-footed horse, It. balza border, trimming, fr. L. balteus belt, border, edge. Cf. Belt.]  1. A badger. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  2. A large, unwieldy person. [Obs.] Nares. 

BAXTER:  A baker; originally, a female baker. [Old Eng. & Scotch] 

BAY:  Reddish brown; of the color of a chestnut; -- applied to the color of horses. Bay cat (Zoöl.), a wild cat of Africa and the East Indies (Felis aurata).  -- Bay lynx (Zoöl.), the common American lynx (Felis, or Lynx, rufa). 

BAY:  An inlet of the sea, usually smaller than a gulf, but of the same general character.  Note: The name is not used with much precision, and is often applied to large tracts of water, around which the land forms a curve; as, Hudson's Bay. The name is not restricted to tracts of water with a narrow entrance, but is used foe any recess or inlet between capes or headlands; as, the Bay of Biscay.  2. A small body of water set off from the main body; as a compartment containing water for a wheel; the portion of a canal just outside of the gates of a lock, etc.  3. A recess or indentation shaped like a bay.  4. A principal compartment of the walls, roof, or other part of a building, or of the whole building, as marked off by the buttresses, vaulting, mullions of a window, etc.; one of the main divisions of any structure, as the part of a bridge between two piers.  5. A compartment in a barn, for depositing hay, or grain in the stalks.  6. A kind of mahogany obtained from Campeachy Bay. Sick bay, in vessels of war, that part of a deck appropriated to the use of the sick. Totten. 

BAY:  To bark, as a dog with a deep voice does, at his game. The hounds at nearer distance hoarsely bayed. Dryden. 

BAY:  To bark at; hence, to follow with barking; to bring or drive to bay; as, to bay the bear. Shak. 

BAY:  A state of being obliged to face an antagonist or a difficulty, when escape has become impossible. Embolden'd by despair, he stood at bay. Dryden. The most terrible evils are just kept at bay by incessant efforts. I. Taylor 

BAY:  To bathe. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BAY:  A bank or dam to keep back water. 

BAY:  To dam, as water; -- with up or back. 

BAYA:  The East Indian weaver bird (Ploceus Philippinus).  BAYAD; BAYATTE Ba*yad", Ba*yatte", n. Etym: [Ar. bayad.] (Zoöl.)  A large, edible, siluroid fish of the Nile, of two species (Bagrina bayad and B. docmac). 

BAYADERE:  A female dancer in the East Indies. [Written also bajadere.] 

BAYAMO:  A violent thunder squall occurring on the south coast of Cuba, esp. near Bayamo. The gusts, called bayamo winds, are modified foehn winds.  BAY-ANTLER Bay"-ant`ler, n. Etym: [See Bez-Antler.] (Zoöl.)  The second tine of a stag's horn. See under Antler. 

BAYARD:  Properly, a bay horse, but often any horse. Commonly in the phrase blind bayard, an old blind horse. Blind bayard moves the mill. Philips.  2. Etym: [Cf. F. bayeur, fr. bayer to gape.]  A stupid, clownish fellow. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BAYARDLY:  Blind; stupid. [Obs.] "A formal and bayardly round of duties." Goodman. 

BAYBOLT:  A bolt with a barbed shank. 

BAYED:  Having a bay or bays. "The large bayed barn." Drayton.  BAYEUX TAPESTRY Ba`yeux" tap"es*try.  A piece of linen about 1 ft. 8 in. wide by 213 ft. long, covered with embroidery representing the incidents of William the Conqueror's expedition to England, preserved in the town museum of Bayeux in Normandy. It is probably of the 11th century, and is attributed by tradition to Matilda, the Conqueror's wife.  BAY ICE Bay" ice`.  See under Ice.  BAY LEAF Bay" leaf`.  See under 3d Bay. 

BAYMAN:  In the United States navy, a sick-bay nurse; -- now officially designated as hospital apprentice. 

BAYONET:  A pointed instrument of the dagger kind fitted on the muzzle of a musket or rifle, so as to give the soldier increased means of offense and defense.  Note: Originally, the bayonet was made with a handle, which required to be fitted into the bore of the musket after the soldier had fired.  2. (Mach.)  A pin which plays in and out of holes made to receive it, and which thus serves to engage or disengage parts of the machinery. Bayonet clutch. See Clutch.  -- Bayonet joint, a form of coupling similar to that by which a bayonet is fixed on the barrel of a musket. Knight. 

BAYOU:  An inlet from the Gulf of Mexico, from a lake, or from a large river, sometimes sluggish, sometimes without perceptible movement except from tide and wind. [Southern U. S.] A dark slender thread of a bayou moves loiteringly northeastward into a swamp of huge cypresses. G. W. Cable.  BAYOU STATE Bay"ou State`.  Mississippi; -- a nickname, from its numerous bayous.  BAY RUM Bay" rum".  A fragrant liquid, used for cosmetic and medicinal purposes.  Note: The original bay rum, from the West Indies, is prepared, it is believed, by distillation from the leaves of the bayberry (Myrcia acris). The bay rum of the Pharmacopoeia (spirit of myrcia) is prepared from oil of myrcia (bayberry), oil of orange peel, oil of pimento, alcohol, and water.  BAYS; BAYZE Bays, Bayze, n.  See Baize. [Obs.]  BAY SALT Bay" salt`.  Salt which has been obtained from sea water, by evaporation in shallow pits or basins, by the heat of the sun; the large crystalline salt of commerce. Bacon. Ure.  BAY STATE Bay State.  Massachusetts, which had been called the Colony of Massachusetts Bay; -- a nickname.  BAY TREE Bay" tree`.  A species of laurel. (Laurus nobilis).  BAY WINDOW Bay" win"dow. (Arch.)  A window forming a bay or recess in a room, and projecting outward from the wall, either in a rectangular, polygonal, or semicircular form; -- often corruptly called a bow window.  BAY YARN Bay" yarn`.  Woolen yarn. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.  BAZAAR; BAZAR Ba*zaar" Ba*zar", n. Etym: [Per. bazar market.]  1. In the East, an exchange, marketplace, or assemblage of shops where goods are exposed for sale.  2. A spacious hall or suite of rooms for the sale of goods, as at a fair.  3. A fair for the sale of fancy wares, toys, etc., commonly for a charitable objects. Macaulay. 

BDELLOIDEA:  The order of Annulata which includes the leeches. See Hirudinea. 

BDELLOMETER:  A cupping glass to which are attached a scarificator and an exhausting syringe. Dunglison. 

BDELLOMORPHA:  An order of Nemertina, including the large leechlike worms (Malacobdella) often parasitic in clams. 

BE:  A prefix, originally the same word as by; joined with verbs, it serves: (a) To intensify the meaning; as, bespatter, bestir. (b) To render an intransitive verb transitive; as, befall (to fall upon); bespeak (to speak for). (c) To make the action of a verb particular or definite; as, beget (to get as offspring); beset (to set around).  Note: It is joined with certain substantives, and a few adjectives, to form verbs; as, bedew, befriend, benight, besot; belate (to make late); belittle (to make little). It also occurs in certain nouns, adverbs, and prepositions, often with something of the force of the preposition by, or about; as, belief (believe), behalf, bequest (bequeath); because, before, beneath, beside, between. In some words the original force of be is obscured or lost; as, in become, begin, behave, behoove, belong. 

BEACH:  To run or drive (as a vessel or a boat) upon a beach; to strand; as, to beach a ship.  BEACH COMBER Beach" comb`er.  A long, curling wave rolling in from the ocean. See Comber. [Amer.] 

BEACHY:  Having a beach or beaches; formed by a beach or beaches; shingly. The beachy girdle of the ocean. Shak. 

BEACONAGE:  Money paid for the maintenance of a beacon; also, beacons, collectively. 

BEACONLESS:  Having no beacon. 

BEAD:  To ornament with beads or beading. 

BEAD:  To form beadlike bubbles.  BEADHOUSE; BEDEHOUSE Bead"house`, Bede"house`, n. Etym: [OE. bede prayer + E. house. See Bead, n.]  An almshouse for poor people who pray daily for their benefactors. 

BEADING:  Molding in imitation of beads.  2. The beads or bead-forming quality of certain liquors; as, the beading of a brand of whisky. 

BEADLERY:  Office or jurisdiction of a beadle. 

BEADLESHIP:  The state of being, or the personality of, a beadle. A. Wood.  BEAD PROOF Bead" proof`.  1. Among distillers, a certain degree of strength in alcoholic liquor, as formerly ascertained by the floating or sinking of glass globules of different specific gravities thrown into it; now ascertained by more accurate meters.  2. A degree of strength in alcoholic liquor as shown by beads or small bubbles remaining on its surface, or at the side of the glass, when shaken. 

BEADROLL:  A catalogue of persons, for the rest of whose souls a certain number of prayers are to be said or counted off on the beads of a chaplet; hence, a catalogue in general. On Fame's eternal beadroll worthy to be field. Spenser. It is quite startling, on going over the beadroll of English worthies, to find how few are directly represented in the male line. Quart. Rev.  BEADSMAN; BEDESMAN Beads"man, Bedes"man, n.; pl. -men (.  A poor man, supported in a beadhouse, and required to pray for the soul of its founder; an almsman. Whereby ye shall bind me to be your poor beadsman for ever unto Almighty God. Fuller. 

BEADSNAKE:  A small poisonous snake of North America (Elaps fulvius), banded with yellow, red, and black.  BEADSWOMAN; BEDESWOMAN Beads"wom`an, Bedes"wom`an, n.; pl. -women (.  Fem. of Beadsman. 

BEADWORK:  Ornamental work in beads. 

BEAK:  1. (Zoöl.) (a) The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a horny sheath, covering the jaws. The form varied much according to the food and habits of the bird, and is largely used in the classification of birds. (b) A similar bill in other animals, as the turtles. (c) The long projecting sucking mouth of some insects, and other invertebrates, as in the Hemiptera. (d) The upper or projecting part of the shell, near the hinge of a bivalve. (e) The prolongation of certain univalve shells containing the canal.  2. Anything projecting or ending in a point, like a beak, as a promontory of land. Carew.  3. (Antiq.)  A beam, shod or armed at the end with a metal head or point, and projecting from the prow of an ancient galley, in order to pierce the vessel of an enemy; a beakhead.  4. (Naut.)  That part of a ship, before the forecastle, which is fastened to the stem, and supported by the main knee.  5. (Arch.)  A continuous slight projection ending in an arris or narrow fillet; that part of a drip from which the water is thrown off.  6. (Bot.)  Any process somewhat like the beak of a bird, terminating the fruit or other parts of a plant.  7. (Far.)  A toe clip. See Clip, n. (Far.).  8. A magistrate or policeman. [Slang, Eng.] 

BEAKED:  Furnished with a process or a mouth like a beak; rostrate. Beaked whale (Zoöl.), a cetacean of the genus Hyperoodon; the bottlehead whale. 

BEAKHEAD:  An ornament used in rich Norman doorways, resembling a head with a beak. Parker.  2. (Naut.) (a) A small platform at the fore part of the upper deck of a vessel, which contains the water closets of the crew. (b) (Antiq.) Same as Beak, 3. 

BEAKIRON:  A bickern; a bench anvil with a long beak, adapted to reach the interior surface of sheet metal ware; the horn of an anvil. 

BEAL:  A small inflammatory tumor; a pustule. [Prov. Eng.] 

BEAL:  To gather matter; to swell and come to a head, as a pimple. [Prov. Eng.]  BE-ALL Be"-all`, n.  The whole; all that is to be. [Poetic] Shak. 

BEAM:  A heavy iron lever having an oscillating motion on a central axis, one end of which is connected with the piston rod from which it receives motion, and the other with the crank of the wheel shaft; -- called also working beam or walking beam.  11. A ray or collection of parallel rays emitted from the sun or other luminous body; as, a beam of light, or of heat. How far that little candle throws his beams ! Shak.  12. Fig.: A ray; a gleam; as, a beam of comfort. Mercy with her genial beam. Keble.  13. One of the long feathers in the wing of a hawk; -- called also beam feather. Abaft the beam (Naut.), in an arc of the horizon between a line that crosses the ship at right angles, or in the direction of her beams, and that point of the compass toward which her stern is directed.  -- Beam center (Mach.), the fulcrum or pin on which the working beam of an engine vibrates.  -- Beam compass, an instrument consisting of a rod or beam, having sliding sockets that carry steel or pencil points; -- used for drawing or describing large circles.  -- Beam engine, a steam engine having a working beam to transmit power, in distinction from one which has its piston rod attached directly to the crank of the wheel shaft.  -- Before the beam (Naut.), in an arc of the horizon included between a line that crosses the ship at right angles and that point of the compass toward which the ship steers.  -- On the beam , in a line with the beams, or at right angled with the keel.  -- On the weather beam, on the side of a ship which faces the wind.  -- To be on her beam ends, to incline, as a vessel, so much on one side that her beams approach a vertical position. 

BEAM:  To send forth; to emit; -- followed ordinarily by forth; as, to beam forth light. 

BEAM:  To emit beams of light. He beamed, the daystar of the rising age. Trumbull. 

BEAMBIRD:  A small European flycatcher (Muscicapa gricola), so called because it often nests on a beam in a building. 

BEAMED:  Furnished with beams, as the head of a stag. Tost his beamed frontlet to the sky. Sir W. Scott. 

BEAMFUL:  Beamy; radiant. 

BEAMILY:  In a beaming manner. 

BEAMINESS:  The state of being beamy. 

BEAMING:  Emitting beams; radiant. 

BEAMINGLY:  In a beaming manner; radiantly. 

BEAMLET:  A small beam of light.  BEAM TREE Beam" tree`. Etym: [AS. beám a tree. See Beam.] (Bot.)  A tree (Pyrus aria) related to the apple. 

BEAN:  A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chiefly of the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs.  Note: The origin and classification of many kinds are still doubtful. Among true beans are: the black-eyed bean and China bean, included in Dolichos Sinensis; black Egyptian bean or hyacinth bean, D. Lablab; the common haricot beans, kidney beans, string beans, and pole beans, all included in Phaseolus vulgaris; the lower bush bean, Ph. vulgaris, variety nanus; Lima bean, Ph. lunatus; Spanish bean and scarlet runner, Ph. maltiflorus; Windsor bean, the common bean of England, Faba vulgaris. As an article of food beans are classed with vegetables.  2. The popular name of other vegetable seeds or fruits, more or less resembling true beans. Bean aphis (Zoöl.), a plant louse (Aphis fabæ) which infests the bean plant.  -- Bean fly (Zoöl.), a fly found on bean flowers.  -- Bean goose (Zoöl.), a species of goose (Anser segetum).  -- Bean weevil (Zoöl.), a small weevil that in the larval state destroys beans. The American species in Bruchus fabæ.  -- Florida bean (Bot.), the seed of Mucuna urens, a West Indian plant. The seeds are washed up on the Florida shore, and are often polished and made into ornaments.  -- Ignatius bean, or St. Ignatius's bean (Bot.), a species of Strychnos.  -- Navy bean, the common dried white bean of commerce; probably so called because an important article of food in the navy.  -- Pea bean, a very small and highly esteemed variety of the edible white bean; -- so called from its size.  -- Sacred bean. See under Sacred.  -- Screw bean. See under Screw.  -- Sea bean. (a) Same as Florida bean. (b) A red bean of unknown species used for ornament.  -- Tonquin bean, or Tonka bean, the fragrant seed of Dipteryx odorata, a leguminous tree.  -- Vanilla bean. See under Vanilla.  BEAN CAPER Bean" ca`per. (Bot.)  A deciduous plant of warm climates, generally with fleshy leaves and flowers of a yellow or whitish yellow color, of the genus Zygophyllum.  BEAN TREFOIL Bean" tre"foil. (Bot.)  A leguminous shrub of southern Europe, with trifoliate leaves (Anagyris foetida). 

BEAR:  A bier. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BEAR:  Any species of the genus Ursus, and of the closely allied genera. Bears are plantigrade Carnivora, but they live largely on fruit and insects.  Note: The European brown bear (U. arctos), the white polar bear (U. maritimus), the grizzly bear (U. horribilis), the American black bear, and its variety the cinnamon bear (U. Americanus), the Syrian bear (Ursus Syriacus), and the sloth bear, are among the notable species.  2. (Zoöl.)  An animal which has some resemblance to a bear in form or habits, but no real affinity; as, the woolly bear; ant bear; water bear; sea bear.  3. (Astron.)  One of two constellations in the northern hemisphere, called respectively the Great Bear and the Lesser Bear, or Ursa Major and Ursa Minor.  4. Metaphorically: A brutal, coarse, or morose person.  5. (Stock Exchange)  A person who sells stocks or securities for future delivery in expectation of a fall in the market.  Note: The bears and bulls of the Stock Exchange, whose interest it is, the one to depress, and the other to raise, stocks, are said to be so called in allusion to the bear's habit of pulling down, and the bull's of tossing up.  6. (Mach.)  A portable punching machine.  7. (Naut.)  A block covered with coarse matting; -- used to scour the deck. Australian bear. (Zoöl.) See Koala.  -- Bear baiting, the sport of baiting bears with dogs.  -- Bear caterpillar (Zoöl.), the hairy larva of a moth, esp. of the genus Euprepia.  -- Bear garden. (a) A place where bears are kept for diversion or fighting. (b) Any place where riotous conduct is common or permitted. M. Arnold.  -- Bear leader, one who leads about a performing bear for money; hence, a facetious term for one who takes charge of a young man on his travels. 

BEAR:  To endeavor to depress the price of, or prices in; as, to bear a railroad stock; to bear the market.  BEAR; BERE Bear, Bere, n. Etym: [AS. bere. See Barley.] (Bot.)  Barley; the six-rowed barley or the four-rowed barley, commonly the former (Hord. vulgare). [Obs. except in North of Eng. and Scot.] 

BEARABLE:  Capable of being borne or endured; tolerable.  -- Bear"a*bly, adv. 

BEARBERRY:  A trailing plant of the heath family (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi), having leaves which are tonic and astringent, and glossy red berries of which bears are said to be fond. 

BEARBIND:  The bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis). 

BEARD:  Long or stiff hairs on a plant; the awn; as, the beard of grain.  4. A barb or sharp point of an arrow or other instrument, projecting backward to prevent the head from being easily drawn out.  5. That part of the under side of a horse's lower jaw which is above the chin, and bears the curb of a bridle.  6. (Print.)  That part of a type which is between the shoulder of the shank and the face.  7. An imposition; a trick. [Obs.] Chaucer. Beard grass (Bot.), a coarse, perennial grass of different species of the genus Andropogon.  -- To one's beard, to one's face; in open defiance. 

BEARDED:  Having a beard. "Bearded fellow." Shak. "Bearded grain." Dryden. Bearded vulture, Bearded eagle. (Zoöl.) See Lammergeir.  -- Bearded tortoise. (Zoöl.) See Matamata. 

BEARDIE:  The bearded loach (Nemachilus barbatus) of Europe. [Scot.] 

BEARDLESSNESS:  The state or quality of being destitute of beard. 

BEARER:  One who holds a check, note, draft, or other order for the payment of money; as, pay to bearer.  6. (Print.)  A strip of reglet or other furniture to bear off the impression from a blank page; also, a type or type-high piece of metal interspersed in blank parts to support the plate when it is shaved. 

BEARHERD:  A man who tends a bear. 

BEARHOUND:  A hound for baiting or hunting bears. Car 

BEARING:  Any single emblem or charge in an escutcheon or coat of arms -- commonly in the pl. A carriage covered with armorial bearings. Thackeray.  9. (Naut.) (a) The situation of a distant object, with regard to a ship's position, as on the bow, on the lee quarter, etc.; the direction or point of the compass in which an object is seen; as, the bearing of the cape was W. N. W. (b) pl.  The widest part of a vessel below the plank-sheer. (c) pl.  The line of flotation of a vessel when properly trimmed with cargo or ballast. Ball bearings. See under Ball.  -- To bring one to his bearings, to bring one to his senses.  -- To lose one's bearings, to become bewildered.  -- To take bearings, to ascertain by the compass the position of an object; to ascertain the relation of one object or place to another; to ascertain one's position by reference to landmarks or to the compass; hence (Fig.), to ascertain the condition of things when one is in trouble or perplexity.  Syn.  -- Deportment; gesture; mien; behavior; manner; carriage; demeanor; port; conduct; direction; relation; tendency; influence.  BEARING CLOTH Bear"ing cloth`.  A cloth with which a child is covered when carried to be baptized. Shak.  BEARING REIN Bear"ing rein`.  A short rein looped over the check hook or the hames to keep the horse's head up; -- called in the United States a checkrein.  BEARING RING Bear"ing ring`.  In a balloon, the braced wooden ring attached to the suspension ropes at the bottom, functionally analogous to the keel of a ship. 

BEARISH:  Partaking of the qualities of a bear; resembling a bear in temper or manners. Harris. 

BEARISHNESS:  Behavior like that of a bear. 

BEARN:  See Bairn. [Obs.]  BEAR'S-BREECH Bear's"-breech`, n. (Bot.) (a) See Acanthus, n., 1. (b) The English cow parsnip (Heracleum sphondylium) Dr. Prior.  BEAR'S-EAR Bear's-ear`, n. (Bot.)  A kind of primrose (Primula auricula), so called from the shape of the leaf.  BEAR'S-FOOT Bear's"-foot`, n. (Bot.)  A species of hellebore (Helleborus foetidus), with digitate leaves. It has an offensive smell and acrid taste, and is a powerful emetic, cathartic, and anthelmintic. 

BEARSKIN:  A large bivalve shell of the East Indies (Hippopus maculatus), often used as an ornament.  BEAR STATE Bear State.  Arkansas; -- a nickname, from the many bears once inhabiting its forests.  BEAR-TRAP DAM Bear"-trap` dam. (Engin.)  A kind of movable dam, in one form consisting of two leaves resting against each other at the top when raised and folding down one over the other when lowered, for deepening shallow parts in a river. 

BEARWARD:  A keeper of bears. See Bearherd. [R.] Shak. 

BEASTHOOD:  State or nature of a beast. 

BEASTINGS:  See Biestings. 

BEASTLIHEAD:  Beastliness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BEASTLIKE:  Like a beast. 

BEASTLINESS:  The state or quality of being beastly. 

BEAT:  To give the signal for, by beat of drum; to sound by beat of drum; as, to beat an alarm, a charge, a parley, a retreat; to beat the general, the reveille, the tattoo. See Alarm, Charge, Parley, etc. To beat down, to haggle with (any one) to secure a lower price; to force down. [Colloq.] -- To beat into, to teach or instill, by repetition.  -- To beat off, to repel or drive back.  -- To beat out, to extend by hammering.  -- To beat out of a thing, to cause to relinquish it, or give it up. "Nor can anything beat their posterity out of it to this day." South.  -- To beat the dust. (Man.) (a) To take in too little ground with the fore legs, as a horse. (b) To perform curvets too precipitately or too low.  -- To beat the hoof, to walk; to go on foot.  -- To beat the wing, to flutter; to move with fluttering agitation.  -- To beat time, to measure or regulate time in music by the motion of the hand or foot.  -- To beat up, to attack suddenly; to alarm or disturb; as, to beat up an enemy's quarters.  Syn.  -- To strike; pound; bang; buffet; maul; drub; thump; baste; thwack; thrash; pommel; cudgel; belabor; conquer; defeat; vanquish; overcome. 

BEAT:  To make progress against the wind, by sailing in a zigzag line or traverse.  6. To make a sound when struck; as, the drums beat.  7. (Mil.)  To make a succession of strokes on a drum; as, the drummers beat to call soldiers to their quarters.  8. (Acoustics & Mus.)  To sound with more or less rapid alternations of greater and less intensity, so as to produce a pulsating effect; -- said of instruments, tones, or vibrations, not perfectly in unison. A beating wind (Naut.), a wind which necessitates tacking in order to make progress.  -- To beat about, to try to find; to search by various means or ways. Addison.  -- To beat about the bush, to approach a subject circuitously.  -- To beat up and down (Hunting), to run first one way and then another; -- said of a stag.  -- To beat up for recruits, to go diligently about in order to get helpers or participators in an enterprise. 

BEAT:  A sudden swelling or reënforcement of a sound, recurring at regular intervals, and produced by the interference of sound waves of slightly different periods of vibrations; applied also, by analogy, to other kinds of wave motions; the pulsation or throbbing produced by the vibrating together of two tones not quite in unison. See Beat, v. i., 8.  5. A round or course which is frequently gone over; as, a watchman's beat.  6. A place of habitual or frequent resort.  7. A cheat or swindler of the lowest grade; -- often emphasized by dead; as, a dead beat. [Low] Beat of drum (Mil.), a succession of strokes varied, in different ways, for particular purposes, as to regulate a march, to call soldiers to their arms or quarters, to direct an attack, or retreat, etc.  -- Beat of a watch, or clock, the stroke or sound made by the action of the escapement. A clock is in beat or out of beat, according as the strokes is at equal or unequal intervals. 

BEAT:  Weary; tired; fatigued; exhausted. [Colloq.] Quite beat, and very much vexed and disappointed. Dickens. 

BEATH:  To bathe; also, to dry or heat, as unseasoned wood. [Obs.] Spenser.  BEATIFIC; BEATIFICAL Be`a*tif"ic, Be`a*tif"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. béatifique, L. beatificus. See Beatify.]  Having the power to impart or complete blissful enjoyment; blissful. "The beatific vision." South.  -- Be`a*tif"ic*al*ly, adv. 

BEATIFICATE:  To beatify. [Obs.] Fuller. 

BEATIFICATION:  The act of beatifying, or the state of being beatified; esp., in the R. C. Church, the act or process of ascertaining and declaring that a deceased person is one of "the blessed," or has attained the second degree of sanctity, -- usually a stage in the process of canonization. "The beatification of his spirit." Jer. Taylor. 

BEATIFY:  To ascertain and declare, by a public process and decree, that a deceased person is one of "the blessed" and is to be reverenced as such, though not canonized. 

BEATING:  Pulsative sounds. See Beat, n.  4. (Naut.)  The process of sailing against the wind by tacks in zigzag direction. 

BEATITUDE:  Beatification. Milman.  Syn.  -- Blessedness; felicity; happiness. 

BEAUCATCHER:  A small flat curl worn on the temple by women. [Humorous] 

BEAUFET:  A niche, cupboard, or sideboard for plate, china, glass, etc.; a buffet. A beaufet . . . filled with gold and silver vessels. Prescott. 

BEAUFIN:  See Biffin. Wright.  BEAUFORT'S SCALE Beau"fort's scale`. (Meteor.)  A scale of wind force devised by Sir F. Beaufort, R. N., in 1805, in which the force is indicated by numbers from 0 to 12.   The full scale is as follows: -- 0, calm; 1, light air; 2, light breeze; 3, gentle breeze; 4, moderate breeze; 5, fresh breeze; 6, strong breeze; 7, moderate gale; 8, fresh gale; 9, strong gale; 10, whole gale; 11, storm; 12, hurricane.  BEAU IDEAL Beau" i*de"al. Etym: [F. beau beautiful + idéal ideal.]  A conception or image of consummate beauty, moral or physical, formed in the mind, free from all the deformities, defects, and blemishes seen in actual existence; an ideal or faultless standard or model. 

BEAUISH:  Like a beau; characteristic of a beau; foppish; fine. "A beauish young spark." Byrom.  BEAU MONDE Beau` monde". Etym: [F. beau fine + monde world.]  The fashionable world; people of fashion and gayety. Prior. 

BEAUMONTAGUE:  A cement used in making joints, filling cracks, etc.  For iron, the principal constituents are iron borings and sal ammoniac; for wood, white lead or litharge, whiting, and linseed oil. 

BEAUSEANT:  The black and white standard of the Knights Templars. 

BEAUSHIP:  The state of being a beau; the personality of a beau. [Jocular] Dryden. 

BEAUTEOUS:  Full of beauty; beautiful; very handsome. [Mostly poetic] -- Beau"te*ous*ly, adv. --  Beau"te*ous*ness, n. 

BEAUTIED:  Beautiful; embellished. [Poetic] Shak. 

BEAUTIFIER:  One who, or that which, beautifies or makes beautiful. 

BEAUTIFUL:  Having the qualities which constitute beauty; pleasing to the sight or the mind. A circle is more beautiful than a square; a square is more beautiful than a parallelogram. Lord Kames.  Syn.  -- Handsome; elegant; lovely; fair; charming; graceful; pretty; delightful. See Fine.  -- Beau"ti*ful*ly, adv.  -- Beau"ti*ful*ness, n. 

BEAUTIFY:  To make or render beautiful; to add beauty to; to adorn; to deck; to grace; to embellish. The arts that beautify and polish life. Burke.  Syn.  -- To adorn; grace; ornament; deck; decorate. 

BEAUTIFY:  To become beautiful; to advance in beauty. Addison. 

BEAUTILESS:  Destitute of beauty. Hammond. 

BEAUX:  pl. of Beau. 

BEAUXITE:  See Bauxite. 

BEAVER:  An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor.  Note: It has palmated hind feet, and a broad, flat tail. It is remarkable for its ingenuity in constructing its valued for its fur, and for the material called castor, obtained from two small bags in the groin of the animal. The European species is Castor fiber, and the American is generally considered a variety of this, although sometimes called Castor Canadensis.  2. The fur of the beaver.  3. A hat, formerly made of the fur of the beaver, but now usually of silk. A brown beaver slouched over his eyes. Prescott.  4. Beaver cloth, a heavy felted woolen cloth, used chiefly for making overcoats. Beaver rat (Zoöl.), an aquatic ratlike quadruped of Tasmania (Hydromys chrysogaster).  -- Beaver skin, the furry skin of the beaver.  -- Bank beaver. See under 1st Bank. 

BEAVER:  That piece of armor which protected the lower part of the face, whether forming a part of the helmet or fixed to the breastplate. It was so constructed (with joints or otherwise) that the wearer could raise or lower it to eat and drink. 

BEAVERED:  Covered with, or wearing, a beaver or hat. "His beavered brow." Pope.  BEAVER STATE Bea"ver State.  Oregon; -- a nickname. 

BEAVERTEEN:  A kind of fustian made of coarse twilled cotton, shorn after dyeing. Simmonds.  BEBEERINE; BEBIRINE Be*bee"rine, or Be*bi"rine, n. (Chem.)  An alkaloid got from the bark of the bebeeru, or green heart of Guiana (Nectandra Rodioei). It is a tonic, antiperiodic, and febrifuge, and is used in medicine as a substitute for quinine. [Written also bibirine.] 

BEBEERU:  A tropical South American tree (Nectandra Rodioi), the bark of which yields the alkaloid bebeerine, and the wood of which is known as green heart. 

BEBLEED:  To make bloody; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Chaucer.  BEBLOOD; BEBLOODY Be*blood", Be*blood"y, v. t.  To make bloody; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Sheldon. 

BEBLOT:  To blot; to stain. Chaucer. 

BEBLUBBER:  To make swollen and disfigured or sullied by weeping; as, her eyes or cheeks were beblubbered. 

BEBUNG:  A tremolo effect, such as that produced on the piano by vibratory repetition of a note with sustained use of the pedal. 

BECAME:  of Become. 

BECARD:  A South American bird of the flycatcher family. (Tityra inquisetor). 

BECCABUNGA:  See Brooklime. 

BECCAFICO:  A small bird. (Silvia hortensis), which is highly prized by the Italians for the delicacy of its flesh in the autumn, when it has fed on figs, grapes, etc.  BECCHI'S TEST Bec"chi's test. [After E. Becchi, Italian chemist.] (Chem.)  A qualitative test for cottonseed oil, based on the fact this oil imparts a maroon color to an alcoholic solution of silver nitrate. 

BECHAMEL:  A rich, white sauce, prepared with butter and cream. 

BECHANCE:  By chance; by accident. [Obs.] Grafton. 

BECHANCE:  To befall; to chance; to happen to. God knows what hath bechanced them. Shak. 

BECHARM:  To charm; to captivate.  BECHE DE MER Bêche` de mer". Etym: [F., lit., a sea spade.] (Zoöl.)  The trepang. 

BECHIC:  Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough. Thomas.  -- n.  A medicine for relieving coughs. Quincy. 

BECHUANAS:  A division of the Bantus, dwelling between the Orange and Zambezi rivers, supposed to be the most ancient Bantu population of South Africa. They are divided into totemic clans; they are intelligent and progressive. 

BECK:  See Beak. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BECK:  A small brook. The brooks, the becks, the rills. Drayton. 

BECK:  A vat. See Back. 

BECK:  To nod, or make a sign with the head or hand. [Archaic] Drayton. 

BECK:  To notify or call by a nod, or a motion of the head or hand; to intimate a command to. [Archaic] When gold and silver becks me to come on. Shak. 

BECK:  A significant nod, or motion of the head or hand, esp. as a call or command. They have troops of soldiers at their beck. Shak. 

BECKER:  A European fish (Pagellus centrodontus); the sea bream or braise. 

BECKET:  A small grommet, or a ring or loop of rope  2. A spade for digging turf. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

BECKON:  To make a significant sign to; hence, to summon, as by a motion of the hand. His distant friends, he beckons near. Dryden. It beckons you to go away with it. Shak. 

BECKON:  A sign made without words; a beck. "At the first beckon." Bolingbroke.  BECK'S SCALE Beck's scale.  A hydrometer scale on which the zero point corresponds to sp. gr. 1.00, and the 30º-point to sp. gr. 0.85. From these points the scale is extended both ways, all the degrees being of equal length. 

BECLAP:  To catch; to grasp; to insnare. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BECLIP:  To embrace; to surround. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

BECLOUD:  To cause obscurity or dimness to; to dim; to cloud. If thou becloud the sunshine of thine eye. Quarles. 

BECOME:  To suit or be suitable to; to be congruous with; to befit; to accord with, in character or circumstances; to be worthy of, or proper for; to cause to appear well; -- said of persons and things. It becomes me so to speak of so excellent a poet. Dryden. I have known persons so anxious to have their dress become them, as to convert it, at length, into their proper self, and thus actually to become the dress. Coleridge. 

BECOMED:  Proper; decorous. [Obs.] And gave him what becomed love I might. Shak. 

BECOMING:  Appropriate or fit; congruous; suitable; graceful; befitting. A low and becoming tone. Thackeray.  Note: Formerly sometimes followed by of. Such discourses as are becoming of them. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Seemly; comely; decorous; decent; proper. 

BECOMING:  That which is becoming or appropriate. [Obs.] 

BECOMINGLY:  In a becoming manner. 

BECOMINGNESS:  The quality of being becoming, appropriate, or fit; congruity; fitness. The becomingness of human nature. Grew.  BECQUEREL RAYS Becque`rel" rays". (Physics)  Radiations first observed by the French physicist Henri Becquerel, in working with uranium and its compounds. They consist of a mixture of alpha, beta, and gamma rays. 

BECRIPPLE:  To make a cripple of; to cripple; to lame. [R.] Dr. H. More.  BECUIBA; BECUIBA NUT Be*cui"ba, n., Be*cui"ba nut`. [Native name.] (Bot.)  The nut of the Brazilian tree Myristica Bicuhyba, which yields a medicinal balsam used for rheumatism. 

BECUNA:  A fish of the Mediterranean (Sphyræna spet). See Barracuda. 

BECURL:  To curl; to adorn with curls. 

BED:  A layer or seam, or a horizontal stratum between layers; as, a bed of coal, iron, etc.  7. (Gun.)  See Gun carriage, and Mortar bed.  8. (Masonry) (a) The horizontal surface of a building stone; as, the upper and lower beds. (b) A course of stone or brick in a wall. (c) The place or material in which a block or brick is laid. (d) The lower surface of a brick, slate, or tile. Knight.  9. (Mech.)  The foundation or the more solid and fixed part or framing of a machine; or a part on which something is laid or supported; as, the bed of an engine.  10. The superficial earthwork, or ballast, of a railroad.  11. (Printing)  The flat part of the press, on which the form is laid.  Note: Bed is much used adjectively or in combination; as, bed key or bedkey; bed wrench or bedwrench; bedchamber; bedmaker, etc. Bed of justice (French Hist.), the throne (F. lit bed) occupied by the king when sitting in one of his parliaments (judicial courts); hence, a session of a refractory parliament, at which the king was present for the purpose of causing his decrees to be registered.  -- To be brought to bed, to be delivered of a child; -- often followed by of; as, to be brought to bed of a son.  -- To make a bed, to prepare a bed; to arrange or put in order a bed and its bedding.  -- From bed and board (Law), a phrase applied to a separation by partial divorce of man and wife, without dissolving the bonds of matrimony. If such a divorce (now commonly called a judicial separation) be granted at the instance of the wife, she may have alimony. 

BED:  To dress or prepare the surface of stone) so as to serve as a bed.  7. To lay flat; to lay in order; to place in a horizontal or recumbent position. "Bedded hair." Shak. 

BED:  To go to bed; to cohabit. If he be married, and bed with his wife. Wiseman. 

BEDABBLE:  To dabble; to sprinkle or wet. Shak. 

BEDAFF:  To make a daff or fool of. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BEDAGAT:  The sacred books of the Buddhists in Burmah. Malcom. 

BEDAGGLE:  To daggle. 

BEDASH:  To wet by dashing or throwing water or other liquid upon; to bespatter. "Trees bedashed with rain." Shak. 

BEDAUB:  To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty. Bedaub foul designs with a fair varnish. Barrow. 

BEDAZZLE:  To dazzle or make dim by a strong light. "Bedazzled with the sun." Shak. 

BEDBUG:  A wingless, bloodsucking, hemipterous insect (Cimex Lectularius), sometimes infesting houses and especially beds. See Illustration in Appendix. 

BEDCHAIR:  A chair with adjustable back, for the sick, to support them while sitting up in bed. 

BEDCHAMBER:  A chamber for a bed; an apartment form sleeping in. Shak. Lords of the bedchamber, eight officers of the royal household, all of noble families, who wait in turn a week each. [Eng.] -- Ladies of the bedchamber, eight ladies, all titled, holding a similar official position in the royal household, during the reign of a queen. [Eng.] 

BEDCLOTHES:  Blankets, sheets, coverlets, etc., for a bed. Shak. 

BEDCORD:  A cord or rope interwoven in a bedstead so as to support the bed. 

BEDDED:  Provided with a bed; as, double-bedded room; placed or arranged in a bed or beds. 

BEDDING:  The state or position of beds and layers. 

BEDE:  To pray; also, to offer; to proffer. [Obs.] R. of Gloucester. Chaucer. 

BEDE:  A kind of pickax. 

BEDECK:  To deck, ornament, or adorn; to grace. Bedecked with boughs, flowers, and garlands. Pennant.  BEDEGUAR; BEDEGAR Bed"e*guar, Bed"e*gar, n. Etym: [F., fr. Per. bad-award, or bad- awardag, prop., a kind of white thorn or thistle.]  A gall produced on rosebushes, esp. on the sweetbrier or eglantine, by a puncture from the ovipositor of a gallfly (Rhodites rosæ). It was once supposed to have medicinal properties. 

BEDEHOUSE:  ,n.Same as Beadhouse.  BEDEL; BEDELL Be"del, Be"dell  ,n.Same as Beadle. 

BEDELRY:  Beadleship. [Obs.] Blount. 

BEDEN:  The Abyssinian or Arabian ibex (Capra Nubiana). It is probably the wild goat of the Bible. 

BEDESMAN:  Same as Beadsman. [Obs.] 

BEDEVILMENT:  The state of being bedeviled; bewildering confusion; vexatious trouble. [Colloq.] 

BEDEW:  To moisten with dew, or as with dew. "Falling tears his face bedew." Dryden. 

BEDEWER:  One who, or that which, bedews. 

BEDEWY:  Moist with dew; dewy. [Obs.] Night with her bedewy wings. A. Brewer. 

BEDFELLOW:  One who lies with another in the same bed; a person who shares one's couch.  BEDFERE; BEDPHERE Bed"fere` Bed"phere`, n. Etym: [Bed + AS. fera a companion.]  A bedfellow. [Obs.] Chapman. 

BEDGOWN:  A nightgown. 

BEDIGHT:  To bedeck; to array or equip; to adorn. [Archaic] Milton. 

BEDIM:  To make dim; to obscure or darken. Shak. 

BEDIZEN:  To dress or adorn tawdrily or with false taste. Remnants of tapestried hangings, . . . and shreds of pictures with which he had bedizened his tatters. Sir W. Scott. 

BEDIZENMENT:  That which bedizens; the act of dressing, or the state of being dressed, tawdrily. 

BEDKEY:  An instrument for tightening the parts of a bedstead. 

BEDLAM:  Belonging to, or fit for, a madhouse. "The bedlam, brainsick duchess." Shak. 

BEDLAMITE:  An inhabitant of a madhouse; a madman. "Raving bedlamites." Beattie. 

BEDMAKER:  One who makes beds.  BED-MOLDING; BED-MOULDING Bed"-mold`ing Bed"-mould`ing, n. (Arch.)  The molding of a cornice immediately below the corona. Oxf. Gloss. 

BEDOTE:  To cause to dote; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BEDOUIN:  One of the nomadic Arabs who live in tents, and are scattered over Arabia, Syria, and northern Africa, esp. in the deserts.  -- Bed"ou*in*ism (, n. 

BEDOUIN:  Pertaining to the Bedouins; nomad. 

BEDPHERE:  See Bedfere. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  BEDPIECE; BEDPLATE Bed"piece`, Bed"plate`, n. (Mach.)  The foundation framing or piece, by which the other parts are supported and held in place; the bed; -- called also baseplate and soleplate. 

BEDQUILT:  A quilt for a bed; a coverlet. 

BEDRABBLE:  To befoul with rain and mud; to drabble. 

BEDRAGGLE:  To draggle; to soil, as garments which, in walking, are suffered to drag in dust, mud, etc. Swift. 

BEDRENCH:  To drench; to saturate with moisture; to soak. Shak. 

BEDRIBBLE:  To dribble upon.  BEDRID; BEDRIDDEN Bed"rid`, Bed"rid`den, a. Etym: [OE. bedrede, AS. bedreda, bedrida; from bed, bedd, a bed or couch + ridda a rider; cf. OHG. pettiriso, G. bettrise. See Bed, n., and Ride, v. i. ]  Confined to the bed by sickness or infirmity. "Her decrepit, sick, and bedrid father." Shak. "The estate of a bedridden old gentleman." Macaulay.  BEDRIGHT; BEDRITE Bed"right` Bed"rite`, n. Etym: [Bed + right, rite.]  The duty or privilege of the marriage bed. Shak. 

BEDRIZZLE:  To drizzle upon.  BED ROCK Bed" rock". (Mining)  The solid rock underlying superficial formations. Also Fig. 

BEDROP:  To sprinkle, as with drops. The yellow carp, in scales bedropped with gold. Pope. 

BEDRUG:  To drug abundantly or excessively.  BED SCREW Bed" screw`.  1. (Naut.) A form of jack screw for lifting large bodies, and assisting in launching.  2. A long screw formerly used to fasten a bedpost to one of the adjacent side pieces. 

BEDSIDE:  The side of a bed. 

BEDSITE:  A recess in a room for a bed. Of the three bedrooms, two have fireplaces, and all are of fair size, with windows and bedsite well placed. Quart. Rev. 

BEDSORE:  A sore on the back or hips caused by lying for a long time in bed. 

BEDSPREAD:  A bedquilt; a counterpane; a coverlet. [U. S.] 

BEDSTAFF:  "A wooden pin stuck anciently on the sides of the bedstead, to hold the clothes from slipping on either side." Johnson. Hostess, accommodate us with a bedstaff. B. Jonson. Say there is no virtue in cudgels and bedstaves. Brome. 

BEDSTEAD:  A framework for supporting a bed.  BED STEPS Bed" steps`.  Steps for mounting a bed of unusual height. 

BEDSTOCK:  The front or the back part of the frame of a bedstead. [Obs. or Dial. Eng.] 

BEDSTRAW:  A genus of slender herbs, usually with square stems, whorled leaves, and small white flowers. Our Lady's bedstraw, which has yellow flowers, is Galium verum.  -- White bedstraw is G. mollugo. 

BEDSWERVER:  One who swerves from and is unfaithful to the marriage vow. [Poetic] Shak. 

BEDTICK:  A tick or bag made of cloth, used for inclosing the materials of a bed. 

BEDTIME:  The time to go to bed. Shak. 

BEDUCK:  To duck; to put the head under water; to immerse. "Deep himself beducked." Spenser. 

BEDUIN:  See Bedouin. 

BEDUNG:  To cover with dung, as for manuring; to bedaub or defile, literally or figuratively. Bp. Hall. 

BEDUST:  To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust. Sherwood. 

BEDWARD:  Towards bed. 

BEDWARF:  To make a dwarf of; to stunt or hinder the growth of; to dwarf. Donne. 

BEDYE:  To dye or stain. Briton fields with Sarazin blood bedyed. Spenser. 

BEE:  p. p. of Be; -- used for been. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BEE:  An insect of the order Hymenoptera, and family Apidæ (the honeybees), or family Andrenidæ (the solitary bees.) See Honeybee.  Note: There are many genera and species. The common honeybee (Apis mellifica) lives in swarms, each of which has its own queen, its males or drones, and its very numerous workers, which are barren females. Besides the A. mellifica there are other species and varieties of honeybees, as the A. ligustica of Spain and Italy; the A. Indica of India; the A. fasciata of Egypt. The bumblebee is a species of Bombus. The tropical honeybees belong mostly to Melipoma and Trigona.  2. A neighborly gathering of people who engage in united labor for the benefit of an individual or family; as, a quilting bee; a husking bee; a raising bee. [U. S.] The cellar . . . was dug by a bee in a single day. S. G. Goodrich.  3. pl. Etym: [Prob. fr. AS. beáh ring, fr. b to bend. See 1st Bow.] (Naut.)  Pieces of hard wood bolted to the sides of the bowsprit, to reeve the fore-topmast stays through; -- called also bee blocks. Bee beetle (Zoöl.), a beetle (Trichodes apiarius) parasitic in beehives.  -- Bee bird (Zoöl.), a bird that eats the honeybee, as the European flycatcher, and the American kingbird.  -- Bee flower (Bot.), an orchidaceous plant of the genus Ophrys (O. apifera), whose flowers have some resemblance to bees, flies, and other insects.  -- Bee fly (Zoöl.), a two winged fly of the family Bombyliidæ. Some species, in the larval state, are parasitic upon bees.  -- Bee garden, a garden or inclosure to set beehives in ; an apiary. Mortimer.  -- Bee glue, a soft, unctuous matter, with which bees cement the combs to the hives, and close up the cells; -- called also propolis.  -- Bee hawk (Zoöl.), the honey buzzard.  -- Bee killer (Zoöl.), a large two-winged fly of the family Asilidæ (esp. Trupanea apivora) which feeds upon the honeybee. See Robber fly.  -- Bee louse (Zoöl.), a minute, wingless, dipterous insect (Braula cæca) parasitic on hive bees.  -- Bee martin (Zoöl.), the kingbird (Tyrannus Carolinensis) which occasionally feeds on bees.  -- Bee moth (Zoöl.), a moth (Galleria cereana) whose larvæ feed on honeycomb, occasioning great damage in beehives.  -- Bee wolf (Zoöl.), the larva of the bee beetle. See Illust. of Bee beetle.  -- To have a bee in the head or in the bonnet. (a) To be choleric. [Obs.] (b) To be restless or uneasy. B. Jonson. (c) To be full of fancies; to be a little crazy. "She's whiles crack-brained, and has a bee in her head." Sir W. Scott. 

BEEBREAD:  A brown, bitter substance found in some of the cells of honeycomb. It is made chiefly from the pollen of flowers, which is collected by bees as food for their young. 

BEECH:  A tree of the genus Fagus.  Note: It grows to a large size, having a smooth bark and thick foliage, and bears an edible triangular nut, of which swine are fond. The Fagus sylvatica is the European species, and the F. ferruginea that of America. Beech drops (Bot.), a parasitic plant which grows on the roots of beeches (Epiphegus Americana).  -- Beech marten (Zoöl.), the stone marten of Europe (Mustela foina).  -- Beech mast, the nuts of the beech, esp. as they lie under the trees, in autumn.  -- Beech oil, oil expressed from the mast or nuts of the beech tree.  -- Cooper beech, a variety of the European beech with copper- colored, shining leaves. 

BEECHEN:  Consisting, or made, of the wood or bark of the beech; belonging to the beech. "Plain beechen vessels." Dryden. 

BEECHNUT:  The nut of the beech tree.  BEECH TREE Beech" tree`.  The beech. 

BEECHY:  Of or relating to beeches.  BEE-EATER Bee"-eat`er, n. (Zoöl.) (a) A bird of the genus Merops, that feeds on bees. The European species (M. apiaster) is remarkable for its brilliant colors. (b) An African bird of the genus Rhinopomastes. 

BEEF:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, beef. Beef tea, essence of beef, or strong beef broth. 

BEEFEATER:  An African bird of the genus Buphaga, which feeds on the larvæ of botflies hatched under the skin of oxen, antelopes, etc. Two species are known. 

BEEFSTEAK:  A steak of beef; a slice of beef broiled or suitable for broiling.  BEEF-WITTED Beef"-wit`ted, n.  Stupid; dull. Shak. 

BEEFWOOD:  An Australian tree (Casuarina), and its red wood, used for cabinetwork; also, the trees Stenocarpus salignus of New South Wales, and Banksia compar of Queensland. 

BEEFY:  Having much beef; of the nature of beef; resembling beef; fleshy. 

BEEHIVE:  A hive for a swarm of bees. Also used figuratively.  Note: A common and typical form of beehive was a domeshaped inverted basket, whence certain ancient Irish and Scotch architectural remains are called beehive houses. 

BEEHOUSE:  A house for bees; an apiary.  BEE LARKSPUR Bee" lark`spur.  (Bot.) See Larkspur. 

BEELD:  Same as Beild. Fairfax.  BEE LINE Bee" line`.  The shortest line from one place to another, like that of a bee to its hive when loaded with honey; an air line. "A bee line for the brig." Kane. 

BEELZEBUB:  The title of a heathen deity to whom the Jews ascribed the sovereignty of the evil spirits; hence, the Devil or a devil. See Baal. 

BEEM:  A trumpet. [Obs.] 

BEEMASTER:  One who keeps bees. 

BEEN:  The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr. tense plural of Be. See 1st Bee. Assembled been a senate grave and stout. Fairfax. 

BEEREGAR:  Sour beer. [Obs.] 

BEERHOUSE:  A house where malt liquors are sold; an alehouse. 

BEERINESS:  Beery condition. 

BEERY:  Of or resembling beer; affected by beer; maudlin. 

BEESTINGS:  Same as Biestings. 

BEESWAX:  The wax secreted by bees, and of which their cells are constructed. 

BEESWING:  The second crust formed in port and some other wines after long keeping. It consists of pure, shining scales of tartar, supposed to resemble the wing of a bee. 

BEET:  A biennial plant of the genus Beta, which produces an edible root the first year and seed the second year.  2. The root of plants of the genus Beta, different species and varieties of which are used for the table, for feeding stock, or in making sugar.  Note: There are many varieties of the common beet (Beta vulgaris). The Old "white beet", cultivated for its edible leafstalks, is a distinct species (Beta Cicla).  BEETE; BETE Beete, Bete, v. t. Etym: [AS. b to mend. See Better.]  1. To mend; to repair. [Obs.] Chaucer.  2. To renew or enkindle (a fire). [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BEETLE:  Any insect of the order Coleoptera, having four wings, the outer pair being stiff cases for covering the others when they are folded up. See Coleoptera. Beetle mite (Zoöl.), one of many species of mites, of the family Oribatidæ, parasitic on beetles.  -- Black beetle, the common large black cockroach (Blatta orientalis). 

BEETLE:  To extend over and beyond the base or support; to overhang; to jut. To the dreadful summit of the cliff That beetles o'er his base into the sea. Shak. Each beetling rampart, and each tower sublime. Wordsworth.  BEETLE BROW Bee"tle brow`.  An overhanging brow.  BEETLE-BROWED Bee"tle-browed`, a. Etym: [OE. bitelbrowed; cf. OE. bitel, adj., sharp, projecting, n., a beetle. See Beetle an insect.]  Having prominent, overhanging brows; hence, lowering or sullen.  Note: The earlier meaning was, "Having bushy or overhanging eyebrows." 

BEETLEHEAD:  The black-bellied plover, or bullhead (Squatarola helvetica). See Plover.  BEETLE-HEADED Bee"tle-head`ed, a.  Dull; stupid. Shak. 

BEETLESTOCK:  The handle of a beetle.  BEET RADISH Beet" rad`ish.  Same as Beetrave. 

BEETRAVE:  The common beet (Beta vulgaris). 

BEEVE:  A beef; a beef creature. They would knock down the first beeve they met with. W. Irving. 

BEEVES:  ; plural of Beef, the animal. 

BEFALL:  To happen to. I beseech your grace that I may know The worst that may befall me. Shak. 

BEFALL:  To come to pass; to happen. I have revealed . . . the discord which befell. Milton. 

BEFIT:  To be suitable to; to suit; to become. That name best befits thee. Milton. 

BEFITTING:  Suitable; proper; becoming; fitting. 

BEFITTINGLY:  In a befitting manner; suitably. 

BEFLATTER:  To flatter excessively. 

BEFLOWER:  To besprinkle or scatter over with, or as with, flowers. Hobbes. 

BEFOREHAND:  In comfortable circumstances as regards property; forehanded. Rich and much beforehand. Bacon. 

BEFORETIME:  Formerly; aforetime. [They] dwelt in their tents, as beforetime. 2 Kings xiii. 5. 

BEFORTUNE:  To befall. [Poetic] I wish all good befortune you. Shak. 

BEFRIEND:  To act as a friend to; to favor; to aid, benefit, or countenance. By the darkness befriended. Longfellow. 

BEFRIENDMENT:  Act of befriending. [R.] 

BEFRILL:  To furnish or deck with a frill. 

BEFRINGE:  To furnish with a fringe; to form a fringe upon; to adorn as with fringe. Fuller. 

BEFUDDLE:  To becloud and confuse, as with liquor. 

BEG:  A title of honor in Turkey and in some other parts of the East; a bey. 

BEG:  To ask to be appointed guardian for, or to ask to have a guardian appointed for. Else some will beg thee, in the court of wards. Harrington. Hence: To beg (one) for a fool, to take him for a fool. I beg to, is an elliptical expression for I beg leave to; as, I beg to inform you.  -- To bag the question, to assume that which was to be proved in a discussion, instead of adducing the proof or sustaining the point by argument.  -- To go a-begging, a figurative phrase to express the absence of demand for something which elsewhere brings a price; as, grapes are so plentiful there that they go a-begging.  Syn.  -- To Beg, Ask, Request. To ask (not in the sense of inquiring) is the generic term which embraces all these words. To request is only a polite mode of asking. To beg, in its original sense, was to ask with earnestness, and implied submission, or at least deference. At present, however, in polite life, beg has dropped its original meaning, and has taken the place of both ask and request, on the ground of its expressing more of deference and respect. Thus, we beg a person's acceptance of a present; we beg him to favor us with his company; a tradesman begs to announce the arrival of new goods, etc. Crabb remarks that, according to present usage, "we can never talk of asking a person's acceptance of a thing, or of asking him to do us a favor." This can be more truly said of usage in England than in America. 

BEG:  To ask alms or charity, especially to ask habitually by the wayside or from house to house; to live by asking alms. I can not dig; to beg I am ashamed. Luke xvi. 3. 

BEGA:  See Bigha. 

BEGEM:  To adorn with gems, or as with gems. Begemmed with dewdrops. Sir W. Scott. Those lonely realms bright garden isles begem. Shelley. 

BEGETTER:  One who begets; a father. 

BEGGABLE:  Capable of being begged. 

BEGGARHOOD:  The condition of being a beggar; also, the class of beggars. 

BEGGARISM:  Beggary. [R.] 

BEGGARLINESS:  The quality or state of being beggarly; meanness. 

BEGGARLY:  In an indigent, mean, or despicable manner; in the manner of a beggar.  BEGGAR'S LICE Beg"gar's lice`. (Bot.)  The prickly fruit or seed of certain plants (as some species of Echinospermum and Cynoglossum) which cling to the clothing of those who brush by them.  BEGGAR'S TICKS Beg"gar's ticks`.  The bur marigold (Bidens) and its achenes, which are armed with barbed awns, and adhere to clothing and fleeces with unpleasant tenacity. 

BEGGARY:  Beggarly. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BEGGESTERE:  A beggar. [Obs.] Chaucer.  BEGHARD; BEGUARD Be*ghard" Be*guard", n. Etym: [F. bégard, béguard; cf. G. beghard, LL. Beghardus, Begihardus, Begardus. Prob. from the root of beguine + -ard or -hard. See Beguine.] (Eccl. Hist.)  One of an association of religious laymen living in imitation of the Beguines. They arose in the thirteenth century, were afterward subjected to much persecution, and were suppressed by Innocent X. in 1650. Called also Beguins. 

BEGILD:  To gild. B. Jonson. 

BEGIN:  Beginning. [Poetic & Obs.] Spenser. 

BEGINNER:  One who begins or originates anything. Specifically: A young or inexperienced practitioner or student; a tyro. A sermon of a new beginner. Swift. 

BEGIRDLE:  To surround as with a girdle. 

BEGIRT:  To encompass; to begird. Milton. 

BEGLERBEG:  The governor of a province of the Ottoman empire, next in dignity to the grand vizier. 

BEGNAW:  To gnaw; to eat away; to corrode. The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul. Shak. 

BEGOD:  To exalt to the dignity of a god; to deify. [Obs.] "Begodded saints." South. 

BEGOHM:  A unit of resistance equal to one billion ohms, or one thousand megohms. 

BEGONE:  Go away; depart; get you gone. 

BEGONE:  Surrounded; furnished; beset; environed (as in woe-begone). [Obs.] Gower. Chaucer. 

BEGONIA:  A genus of plants, mostly of tropical America, many species of which are grown as ornamental plants. The leaves are curiously one- sided, and often exhibit brilliant colors. 

BEGORE:  To besmear with gore. 

BEGOT:  imp. & p. p. of Beget. 

BEGOTTEN:  p. p. of Beget. 

BEGRAVE:  To bury; also, to engrave. [Obs.] Gower. 

BEGREASE:  To soil or daub with grease or other oily matter. 

BEGRIME:  To soil with grime or dirt deeply impressed or rubbed in. Books falling to pieces and begrimed with dust. Macaulay. 

BEGRIMER:  One who, or that which, begrimes. 

BEGRUDGE:  To grudge; to envy the possession of. 

BEGUILEMENT:  The act of beguiling, or the state of being beguiled. 

BEGUILER:  One who, or that which, beguiles. 

BEGUILING:  Alluring by guile; deluding; misleading; diverting.  -- Be*guil"ing*ly, adv. 

BEGUIN:  See Beghard. 

BEGUINAGE:  A collection of small houses surrounded by a wall and occupied by a community of Beguines. 

BEGUINE:  A woman belonging to one of the religious and charitable associations or communities in the Netherlands, and elsewhere, whose members live in beguinages and are not bound by perpetual vows. 

BEGUM:  In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank. Malcom. 

BEGUN:  of Begin. 

BEHALF:  Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support; defense; vindication. In behalf of his mistress's beauty. Sir P. Sidney. Against whom he had contracted some prejudice in behalf of his nation. Clarendon. In behalf of, in the interest of.  -- On behalf of, on account of; on the part of. 

BEHAPPEN:  To happen to. [Obs.] 

BEHAVE:  To act; to conduct; to bear or carry one's self; as, to behave well or ill.  Note: This verb is often used colloquially without an adverb of manner; as, if he does not behave, he will be punished. It is also often applied to inanimate objects; as, the ship behaved splendidly. 

BEHAVIOR:  Manner of behaving, whether good or bad; mode of conducting one's self; conduct; deportment; carriage; -- used also of inanimate objects; as, the behavior of a ship in a storm; the behavior of the magnetic needle. A gentleman that is very singular in his behavior. Steele. To be upon one's good behavior, To be put upon one's good behavior, to be in a state of trial, in which something important depends on propriety of conduct.  -- During good behavior, while (or so long as) one conducts one's self with integrity and fidelity or with propriety.  Syn.  -- Bearing; demeanor; manner.  -- Behavior, Conduct. Behavior is the mode in which we have or bear ourselves in the presence of others or toward them; conduct is the mode of our carrying ourselves forward in the concerns of life. Behavior respects our manner of acting in particular cases; conduct refers to the general tenor of our actions. We may say of soldiers, that their conduct had been praiseworthy during the whole campaign, and their behavior admirable in every instance when they met the enemy. 

BEHEAD:  To sever the head from; to take off the head of. 

BEHEADAL:  ,n.Beheading. [Modern] 

BEHELD:  imp. & p. p. of Behold. 

BEHEMOTH:  An animal, probably the hippopotamus, described in Job xl. 15- 24.  BEHEN; BEHN Be"hen, Behn, n. Etym: [Per. & Ar. bahman, behmen, an herb, whose leaves resemble ears of corn, saffron.] (Bot.) (a) The Centaurea behen, or saw-leaved centaury. (b) The Cucubalus behen, or bladder campion, now called Silene inflata. (c) The Statice limonium, or sea lavender. 

BEHEST:  To vow. [Obs.] Paston. 

BEHETE:  See Behight. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BEHIGHT:  A vow; a promise. [Obs.] Surrey. 

BEHIND:  The backside; the rump. [Low] 

BEHITHER:  On this side of. [Obs.] Two miles behither Clifden. Evelyn. 

BEHOLD:  To have in sight; to see clearly; to look at; to regard with the eyes. When he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. Num. xxi. 9. Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. John. i. 29.  Syn.  -- To scan; gaze; regard; descry; view; discern. 

BEHOLD:  To direct the eyes to, or fix them upon, an object; to look; to see. And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne, . . . a lamb as it had been slain. Rev. v. 6. 

BEHOLDEN:  Obliged; bound in gratitude; indebted. But being so beholden to the Prince. Tennyson. 

BEHOLDER:  One who beholds; a spectator. 

BEHOLDING:  Obliged; beholden. [Obs.] I was much bound and beholding to the right reverend father. Robynson (More's Utopia). So much hath Oxford been beholding to her nephews, or sister's children. Fuller. 

BEHOLDING:  The act of seeing; sight; also, that which is beheld. Shak. 

BEHOLDINGNESS:  , The state of being obliged or beholden. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

BEHOOF:  Advantage; profit; benefit; interest; use. No mean recompense it brings To your behoof. Milton. 

BEHOOVABLE:  Supplying need; profitable; advantageous. [Obs.] Udall. 

BEHOOVE:  To be necessary for; to be fit for; to be meet for, with respect to necessity, duty, or convenience; -- mostly used impersonally. And thus it behooved Christ to suffer. Luke xxiv. 46. [Also written behove.] 

BEHOOVE:  To be necessary, fit, or suitable; to befit; to belong as due. Chaucer. 

BEHOOVE:  Advantage; behoof. [Obs.] It shall not be to his behoove. Gower. 

BEHOOVEFUL:  Advantageous; useful; profitable. [Archaic] -- Be*hoove"ful*ly, adv.  -- Be*hoove"ful*ness, n. [Archaic] 

BEHOVE:  , and derivatives. See Behoove, & c. 

BEHOVELY:  Useful, or usefully. [Obs.] 

BEHOWL:  To howl at. [Obs.] The wolf behowls the moon. Shak. 

BEIGE:  Debeige. 

BEILD:  A place of shelter; protection; refuge. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] [Also written bield and beeld.] The random beild o' clod or stane. Burns. 

BEING:  Existing.  Note: Being was formerly used where we now use having. "Being to go to a ball in a few days." Miss Edgeworth.  Note: In modern usage, is, are, was or were being, with a past participle following (as built, made, etc.) indicates the process toward the completed result expressed by the participle. The form is or was building, in this passive signification, is idiomatic, and, if free from ambiguity, is commonly preferable to the modern is or was being built. The last form of speech is, however, sufficiently authorized by approved writers. The older expression was is, or was, a-building or in building. A man who is being strangled. Lamb. While the article on Burns was being written. Froude. Fresh experience is always being gained. Jowett (Thucyd. ) 

BEING:  Since; inasmuch as. [Obs. or Colloq.] And being you have Declined his means, you have increased his malice. Beau. & Fl. 

BEJADE:  To jade or tire. [Obs.] Milton. 

BEJAPE:  To jape; to laugh at; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BEJAUNDICE:  To infect with jaundice. 

BEJEWEL:  To ornament with a jewel or with jewels; to spangle. "Bejeweled hands." Thackeray. 

BEJUCO:  Any climbing woody vine of the tropics with the habit of a liane; in the Philippines, esp. any of various species of Calamus, the cane or rattan palm. 

BEJUMBLE:  To jumble together. 

BEKAH:  Half a shekel. 

BEKNAVE:  To call knave. [Obs.] Pope. 

BEKNOW:  To confess; to acknowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BEL:  The Babylonian name of the god known among the Hebrews as Baal. See Baal. Baruch vi. 41. 

BELABOR:  A kind or favorable reception or salutation. [Obs.] 

BELAM:  To beat or bang. [Prov. & Low, Eng.] Todd. 

BELAMY:  Good friend; dear friend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BELATE:  To retard or make too late. Davenant. 

BELATED:  Delayed beyond the usual time; too late; overtaken by night; benighted. "Some belated peasant." Milton.  -- Be*lat"ed*ness, n. Milton. 

BELAUD:  To laud or praise greatly. 

BELAY:  To make fast, as a rope, by taking several turns with it round a pin, cleat, or kevel. Totten.  3. To lie in wait for with a view to assault. Hence: to block up or obstruct. [Obs.] Dryden. Belay thee! Stop.  BELAYING PIN Be*lay"ing pin`. (Naut.)  A strong pin in the side of a vessel, or by the mast, round which ropes are wound when they are fastened or belayed. 

BELCHER:  One who, or that which, belches.  BELDAM; BELDAME Bel"dam Bel"dame, n. Etym: [Pref. bel-, denoting relationship + dame mother: cf. F. belledame fair lady, It. belladonna. See Belle, and Dame.]  1. Grandmother; -- corresponding to belsire. To show the beldam daughters of her daughter. Shak.  2. An old woman in general; especially, an ugly old woman; a hag. Around the beldam all erect they hang. Akenside. 

BELEAGUER:  To surround with an army so as to preclude escape; to besiege; to blockade. The wail of famine in beleaguered towns. Longfellow.  Syn.  -- To block up; environ; invest; encompass. 

BELEAGUERER:  One who beleaguers. 

BELEAVE:  To leave or to be left. [Obs.] May. 

BELECTURE:  To vex with lectures; to lecture frequently. 

BELEE:  To place under the lee, or unfavorably to the wind. Shak. 

BELEMNITE:  A conical calcareous fossil, tapering to a point at the lower extremity, with a conical cavity at the other end, where it is ordinarily broken; but when perfect it contains a small chambered cone, called the phragmocone, prolonged, on one side, into a delicate concave blade; the thunderstone. It is the internal shell of a cephalopod related to the sepia, and belonging to an extinct family. The belemnites are found in rocks of the Jurassic and Cretaceous ages.  -- Bel*em*nit"ic, a. 

BELEPER:  To infect with leprosy. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  BEL-ESPRIT Bel"-es*prit", n.; pl. Beaux-esprits. Etym: [F., fine wit.]  A fine genius, or man of wit. "A man of letters and a bel esprit." W. Irving. 

BELFRY:  A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack and defense.  2. A bell tower, usually attached to a church or other building, but sometimes separate; a campanile.  3. A room in a tower in which a bell is or may be hung; or a cupola or turret for the same purpose.  4. (Naut.)  The framing on which a bell is suspended. 

BELGARD:  A sweet or loving look. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BELGIAN:  Of or pertaining to Belgium.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Belgium.  BELGIAN BLOCK Belgian block.  A nearly cubical block of some tough stone, esp. granite, used as a material for street pavements. Its usual diameter is 5 to 7 inches. 

BELGRAVIAN:  Belonging to Belgravia (a fashionable quarter of London, around Pimlico), or to fashionable life; aristocratic. 

BELIAL:  An evil spirit; a wicked and unprincipled person; the personification of evil. What concord hath Christ with Belia 2 Cor. vi. 15. A son (or man) of Belial, a worthless, wicked, or thoroughly depraved person. 1 Sam. ii. 12. 

BELIBEL:  To libel or traduce; to calumniate. Fuller. 

BELIEF:  A persuasion of the truths of religion; faith. No man can attain [to] belief by the bare contemplation of heaven and earth. Hooker.  3. The thing believed; the object of belief. Superstitious prophecies are not only the belief of fools, but the talk sometimes of wise men. Bacon.  4. A tenet, or the body of tenets, held by the advocates of any class of views; doctrine; creed. In the heat of persecution to which Christian belief was subject upon its first promulgation. Hooker. Ultimate belief, a first principle incapable of proof; an intuitive truth; an intuition. Sir W. Hamilton.  Syn.  -- Credence; trust; reliance; assurance; opinion. 

BELIEFFUL:  Having belief or faith. 

BELIEVABLE:  Capable of being believed; credible.  -- Be*liev"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Be*liev`a*bil"i*ty (, n. 

BELIEVE:  To exercise belief in; to credit upon the authority or testimony of another; to be persuaded of the truth of, upon evidence furnished by reasons, arguments, and deductions of the mind, or by circumstances other than personal knowledge; to regard or accept as true; to place confidence in; to think; to consider; as, to believe a person, a statement, or a doctrine. Our conqueror (whom I now Of force believe almighty). Milton. King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets Acts xxvi. Often followed by a dependent clause. I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Acts viii. 37.  Syn.  -- See Expect. 

BELIEVER:  One who gives credit to the truth of the Scriptures, as a revelation from God; a Christian; -- in a more restricted sense, one who receives Christ as his Savior, and accepts the way of salvation unfolded in the gospel. Thou didst open the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers. Book of Com. Prayer.  3. (Eccl. Hist.)  One who was admitted to all the rights of divine worship and instructed in all the mysteries of the Christian religion, in distinction from a catechumen, or one yet under instruction. 

BELIEVING:  That believes; having belief.  -- Be*liev"ing*ly, adv. 

BELIGHT:  To illuminate. [Obs.] Cowley. 

BELIKE:  It is likely or probably; perhaps. [Obs. or Archaic] -- Be*like"ly, adv. Belike, boy, then you are in love. Shak. 

BELIME:  To besmear or insnare with birdlime. 

BELITTLE:  To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in a depreciatory or contemptuous way. T. Jefferson. 

BELIVE:  Forthwith; speedily; quickly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BELK:  To vomit. [Obs.] 

BELL:  That part of the capital of a column included between the abacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearly cylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital.  5. pl. (Naut.)  The strikes of the bell which mark the time; or the time so designated.  Note: On shipboard, time is marked by a bell, which is struck eight times at 4, 8, and 12 o'clock. Half an hour after it has struck "eight bells" it is struck once, and at every succeeding half hour the number of strokes is increased by one, till at the end of the four hours, which constitute a watch, it is struck eight times. To bear away the bell, to win the prize at a race where the prize was a bell; hence, to be superior in something. Fuller.  -- To bear the bell, to be the first or leader; -- in allusion to the bellwether or a flock, or the leading animal of a team or drove, when wearing a bell.  -- To curse by bell, book, and candle, a solemn form of excommunication used in the Roman Catholic church, the bell being tolled, the book of offices for the purpose being used, and three candles being extinguished with certain ceremonies. Nares.  -- To lose the bell, to be worsted in a contest. "In single fight he lost the bell." Fairfax.  -- To shake the bells, to move, give notice, or alarm. Shak.  Note: Bell is much used adjectively or in combinations; as, bell clapper; bell foundry; bell hanger; bell-mouthed; bell tower, etc., which, for the most part, are self-explaining. Bell arch (Arch.), an arch of unusual form, following the curve of an ogee.  -- Bell cage, or Bell carriage (Arch.), a timber frame constructed to carry one or more large bells.  -- Bell cot (Arch.), a small or subsidiary construction, frequently corbeled out from the walls of a structure, and used to contain and support one or more bells.  -- Bell deck (Arch.), the floor of a belfry made to serve as a roof to the rooms below.  -- Bell founder, one whose occupation it is to found or cast bells.  -- Bell foundry, or Bell foundery, a place where bells are founded or cast.  -- Bell gable (Arch.), a small gable-shaped construction, pierced with one or more openings, and used to contain bells.  -- Bell glass. See Bell jar.  -- Bell hanger, a man who hangs or puts up bells.  -- Bell pull, a cord, handle, or knob, connecting with a bell or bell wire, and which will ring the bell when pulled. Aytoun.  -- Bell punch, a kind of conductor's punch which rings a bell when used.  -- Bell ringer, one who rings a bell or bells, esp. one whose business it is to ring a church bell or chime, or a set of musical bells for public entertainment.  -- Bell roof (Arch.), a roof shaped according to the general lines of a bell.  -- Bell rope, a rope by which a church or other bell is rung.  -- Bell tent, a circular conical-topped tent.  -- Bell trap, a kind of bell shaped stench trap. 

BELL:  To put a bell upon; as, to bell the cat.  2. To make bell-mouthed; as, to bell a tube. 

BELL:  To develop bells or corollas; to take the form of a bell; to blossom; as, hops bell. 

BELL:  To utter by bellowing. [Obs.] 

BELL:  To call or bellow, as the deer in rutting time; to make a bellowing sound; to roar. As loud as belleth wind in hell. Chaucer. The wild buck bells from ferny brake. Sir W. Scott. 

BELLADONNA:  An infusorian of the family Vorticellidæ, common in fresh-water ponds. 

BELLARMINE:  A stoneware jug of a pattern originated in the neighborhood of Cologne, Germany, in the 16th century. It has a bearded face or mask supposed to represent Cardinal Bellarmine, a leader in the Roman Catholic Counter Reformation, following the Reformation; -- called also graybeard, longbeard.  BELL BEARER Bell" bear`er. (Zoöl.)  A Brazilian leaf hopper (Bocydium tintinnabuliferum), remarkable for the four bell-shaped appendages of its thorax. 

BELLBIRD:  A lever whose two arms form a right angle, or nearly a right angle, having its fulcrum at the apex of the angle. It is used in bell pulls and in changing the direction of bell wires at angles of rooms, etc., and also in machinery. 

BELLE:  A young lady of superior beauty and attractions; a handsome lady, or one who attracts notice in society; a fair lady. 

BELLED:  Hung with a bell or bells.  BELLEEK WARE Bel*leek" ware.  A porcelainlike kind of decorative pottery with a high gloss, which is sometimes iridescent. A very fine kind is made at Belleek in Ireland.  BELLE-LETTRIST Belle-let"trist, n.  One versed in belleslettres. 

BELLEROPHON:  A genus of fossil univalve shells, believed to belong to the Heteropoda, peculiar to the Paleozoic age.  BELLES-LETTRES Belles-let"tres, n. pl. Etym: [F.]  Polite or elegant literature; the humanities; -- used somewhat vaguely for literary works in which imagination and taste are predominant.  BELLETRISTIC; BELLETRISTICAL Bel`le*tris"tic, Bel`le*tris"tic*al, a.  Occupied with, or pertaining to, belles-lettres. "An unlearned, belletristic trifler." M. Arnold.  BELL-FACED Bell"-faced`, a.  Having the striking surface convex; -- said of hammers. 

BELLFLOWER:  A plant of the genus Campanula; -- so named from its bell- shaped flowers. 

BELLFLOWER:  A kind of apple. The yellow bellflower is a large, yellow winter apple. [Written also bellefleur.] 

BELLIBONE:  A woman excelling both in beauty and goodness; a fair maid. [Obs.] Spenser.  BELLIC; BELLICAL Bel"lic, Bel"li*cal, a. Etym: [L. bellicus. See Bellicose.]  Of or pertaining to war; warlike; martial. [Obs.] "Bellic Cæsar." Feltham. 

BELLICOSE:  Inclined to war or contention; warlike; pugnacious. Arnold was, in fact, in a bellicose vein. W. Irving. 

BELLICOSELY:  In a bellicose manner. 

BELLICOUS:  Bellicose. [Obs.] 

BELLIED:  , a. Having (such) a belly; puffed out; -- used in composition; as, pot-bellied; shad-bellied.  BELLIGERENCE; BELLIGERENCY Bel*lig"er*ence, Bel*lig"er*en*cy, n.  The quality of being belligerent; act or state of making war; warfare. 

BELLIGERENT:  A nation or state recognized as carrying on war; a person engaged in warfare. 

BELLIGERENTLY:  In a belligerent manner; hostilely. 

BELLING:  A bellowing, as of a deer in rutting time. Johnson. 

BELLIPOTENT:  Mighty in war; armipotent. [R.] Blount.  BELL JAR Bell" jar`. (Phys.)  A glass vessel, varying in size, open at the bottom and closed at the top like a bell, and having a knob or handle at the top for lifting it. It is used for a great variety of purposes; as, with the air pump, and for holding gases, also for keeping the dust from articles exposed to view. 

BELLMAN:  A man who rings a bell, especially to give notice of anything in the streets. Formerly, also, a night watchman who called the hours. Milton.  BELL METAL Bell" met`al.  A hard alloy or bronze, consisting usually of about three parts of copper to one of tin; -- used for making bells. Bell metal ore, a sulphide of tin, copper, and iron; the mineral stannite.  BELL-MOUTHED Bell"-mouthed`, a.  Expanding at the mouth; as, a bell-mouthed gun. Byron. 

BELLON:  Lead colic. 

BELLONA:  The goddess of war. 

BELLOW:  To emit with a loud voice; to shout; -- used with out. "Would bellow out a laugh." Dryden. 

BELLOW:  A loud resounding outcry or noise, as of an enraged bull; a roar. 

BELLOWER:  One who, or that which, bellows. 

BELLOWS:  An instrument, utensil, or machine, which, by alternate expansion and contraction, or by rise and fall of the top, draws in air through a valve and expels it through a tube for various purposes, as blowing fires, ventilating mines, or filling the pipes of an organ with wind. Bellows camera, in photography, a form of camera, which can be drawn out like an accordion or bellows.  -- Hydrostatic bellows. See Hydrostatic.  -- A pair of bellows, the ordinary household instrument for blowing fires, consisting of two nearly heart-shaped boards with handles, connected by leather, and having a valve and tube.  BELLOWS FISH Bel"lows fish`. (Zoöl.)  A European fish (Centriscus scolopax), distinguished by a long tubular snout, like the pipe of a bellows; -- called also trumpet fish, and snipe fish.  BELL PEPPER Bell" pep`per. (Bot.)  A species of Capsicum, or Guinea pepper (C. annuum). It is the red pepper of the gardens.  BELL PROCESS Bell process. (Iron Metal.)  The process of washing molten pig iron by adding iron oxide, proposed by I. Lowthian Bell of England about 1875.  BELL-SHAPED Bell"-shaped`, a.  Having the shape of a widemouthed bell; campanulate.  BELL'S PALSY Bell's palsy.  Paralysis of the facial nerve, producing distortion of one side of the face.  BELL SYSTEM OF CONTROL Bell system of control. (Aëronautics)  See Cloche. 

BELLUINE:  Pertaining to, or like, a beast; brutal. [R.] Animal and belluine life. Atterbury. 

BELLWORT:  A genus of plants (Uvularia) with yellowish bell-shaped flowers. 

BELLY:  The hollow part of a curved or bent timber, the convex part of which is the back. Belly doublet, a doublet of the 16th century, hanging down so as to cover the belly. Shak.  -- Belly fretting, the chafing of a horse's belly with a girth. Johnson.  -- Belly timber, food. [Ludicrous] Prior.  -- Belly worm, a worm that breeds or lives in the belly (stomach or intestines). Johnson. 

BELLY:  To cause to swell out; to fill. [R.] Your breath of full consent bellied his sails. Shak. 

BELLY:  To swell and become protuberant, like the belly; to bulge. The bellying canvas strutted with the gale. Dryden. 

BELLYACHE:  Pain in the bowels; colic. 

BELLYBAND:  A band of canvas, to strengthen a sail. 

BELLYBOUND:  Costive; constipated. 

BELLYCHEAT:  An apron or covering for the front of the person. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

BELLYCHEER:  Good cheer; viands. [Obs.] "Bellycheer and banquets." Rowlands. "Loaves and bellycheer." Milton. 

BELLYCHEER:  To revel; to feast. [Obs.] A pack of clergymen [assembled] by themselves to bellycheer in their presumptuous Sion. Milton. 

BELLYFUL:  As much as satisfies the appetite. Hence: A great abundance; more than enough. Lloyd. King James told his son that he would have his bellyful of parliamentary impeachments. Johnson.  BELLY-GOD Bel"ly-god`, n.  One whose great pleasure it is to gratify his appetite; a glutton; an epicure.  BELLY-PINCHED Bel"ly-pinched`, a.  Pinched with hunger; starved. "The belly-pinched wolf." Shak. 

BELOCK:  To lock, or fasten as with a lock. [Obs.] Shak. 

BELOMANCY:  A kind of divination anciently practiced by means of marked arrows drawn at random from a bag or quiver, the marks on the arrows drawn being supposed to foreshow the future. Encyc. Brit. 

BELONG:  To be deserved by. [Obs.] More evils belong us than happen to us. B. Jonson. 

BELONITE:  Minute acicular or dendritic crystalline forms sometimes observed in glassy volcanic rocks.  BELOOCHE; BELOOCHEE Bel*oo"che Bel*oo"chee, a.  Of or pertaining to Beloochistan, or to its inhabitants.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Beloochistan. 

BELOVE:  To love. [Obs.] Wodroephe. 

BELOVED:  Greatly loved; dear to the heart. Antony, so well beloved of Cæsar. Shak. This is my beloved Son. Matt. iii. 17. 

BELOVED:  One greatly loved. My beloved is mine, and I am his. Cant. ii. 16. 

BELOWT:  To treat as a lout; to talk abusively to. [Obs.] Camden. 

BELSIRE:  A grandfather, or ancestor. "His great belsire Brute." [Obs.] Drayton. 

BELSWAGGER:  A lewd man; also, a bully. [Obs.] Dryden. 

BELT:  Same as Band, n., 2. A very broad band is more properly termed a belt.  5. (Astron.)  One of certain girdles or zones on the surface of the planets Jupiter and Saturn, supposed to be of the nature of clouds.  6. (Geog.)  A narrow passage or strait; as, the Great Belt and the Lesser Belt, leading to the Baltic Sea.  7. (Her.)  A token or badge of knightly rank.  8. (Mech.)  A band of leather, or other flexible substance, passing around two wheels, and communicating motion from one to the other.  Note: [See Illust. of Pulley.]  9. (Nat. Hist.)  A band or stripe, as of color, round any organ; or any circular ridge or series of ridges. Belt lacing, thongs used for lacing together the ends of machine belting. 

BELT:  To encircle with, or as with, a belt; to encompass; to surround. A coarse black robe belted round the waist. C. Reade. They belt him round with hearts undaunted. Wordsworth.  2. To shear, as the buttocks and tails of sheep. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

BELTED:  See Beltane. 

BELTING:  The material of which belts for machinery are made; also, belts, taken collectively. 

BELUGA:  A cetacean allied to the dolphins.  Note: The northern beluga (Delphinapterus catodon) is the white whale and white fish of the whalers. It grows to be from twelve to eighteen feet long. 

BELUTE:  To bespatter, as with mud. [R.] Sterne. 

BELVEDERE:  A small building, or a part of a building, more or less open, constructed in a place commanding a fine prospect. 

BELZEBUTH:  A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Brazil. 

BEMA:  A platform from which speakers addressed an assembly. Mitford.  2. (Arch.) (a) That part of an early Christian church which was reserved for the higher clergy; the inner or eastern part of the chancel. (b) Erroneously: A pulpit. 

BEMAD:  To make mad. [Obs.] Fuller. 

BEMANGLE:  To mangle; to tear asunder. [R.] Beaumont. 

BEMASK:  To mask; to conceal. 

BEMASTER:  To master thoroughly. 

BEMAUL:  To maul or beat severely; to bruise. "In order to bemaul Yorick." Sterne. 

BEMAZE:  To bewilder. Intellects bemazed in endless doubt. Cowper. 

BEMEAN:  To make mean; to lower. C. Reade. 

BEMEET:  To meet. [Obs.] Our very loving sister, well bemet. Shak. 

BEMETE:  To mete. [Obs.] Shak. 

BEMINGLE:  To mingle; to mix. 

BEMIRE:  To drag through, encumber with, or fix in, the mire; to soil by passing through mud or dirt. Bemired and benighted in the dog. Burke. 

BEMIST:  To envelop in mist. [Obs.] 

BEMOAN:  To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; to lament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with. Implores their pity, and his pain bemoans. Dryden.  Syn.  -- See Deplore. 

BEMOANER:  One who bemoans. 

BEMOCK:  To mock; to ridicule. Bemock the modest moon. Shak. 

BEMOIL:  To soil or encumber with mire and dirt. [Obs.] Shak. 

BEMOL:  The sign [Obs.] 

BEMONSTER:  To make monstrous or like a monster. [Obs.] Shak. 

BEMOURN:  To mourn over. Wyclif. 

BEMUDDLE:  To muddle; to stupefy or bewilder; to confuse. 

BEMUFFLE:  To cover as with a muffler; to wrap up. Bemuffled with the externals of religion. Sterne. 

BEMUSE:  To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor. A parson much bemused in beer. Pope.  BEN; BEN NUT Ben, Ben" nut`. Etym: [Ar. ban, name of the tree.] (Bot.)  The seed of one or more species of moringa; as, oil of ben. See Moringa. 

BEN:  Within; in; in or into the interior; toward the inner apartment. [Scot.] 

BEN:  The inner or principal room in a hut or house of two rooms; -- opposed to but, the outer apartment. [Scot.] 

BEN:  An old form of the pl. indic. pr. of Be. [Obs.] 

BENAME:  To promise; to name. [Obs.] 

BENCH:  To sit on a seat of justice. [R.] Shak. 

BENCHER:  One of the senior and governing members of an Inn of Court.  2. An alderman of a corporation. [Eng.] Ashmole.  3. A member of a court or council. [Obs.] Shak.  4. One who frequents the benches of a tavern; an idler. [Obs.]  BENCH MARK Bench mark. (Leveling)  Any permanent mark to which other levels may be referred. Specif. : A horizontal mark at the water's edge with reference to which the height of tides and floods may be measured.  BENCH WARRANT Bench" war`rant. (Law)  A process issued by a presiding judge or by a court against a person guilty of some contempt, or indicted for some crime; -- so called in distinction from a justice's warrant. 

BEND:  To fasten, as one rope to another, or as a sail to its yard or stay; or as a cable to the ring of an anchor. Totten. To bend the brow, to knit the brow, as in deep thought or in anger; to scowl; to frown. Camden.  Syn.  -- To lean; stoop; deflect; bow; yield. 

BEND:  A knot by which one rope is fastened to another or to an anchor, spar, or post. Totten.  4. (Leather Trade)  The best quality of sole leather; a butt. See Butt.  5. (Mining)  Hard, indurated clay; bind. Bends of a ship, the thickest and strongest planks in her sides, more generally called wales. They have the beams, knees, and foothooks bolted to them. Also, the frames or ribs that form the ship's body from the keel to the top of the sides; as, the midship bend. 

BEND:  One of the honorable ordinaries, containing a third or a fifth part of the field. It crosses the field diagonally from the dexter chief to the sinister base. Bend sinister (Her.), an honorable ordinary drawn from the sinister chief to the dexter base. 

BENDABLE:  Capable of being bent. 

BENDING:  The marking of the clothes with stripes or horizontal bands. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BENDLET:  A narrow bend, esp. one half the width of the bend. 

BENDWISE:  Diagonally. 

BENDY:  Divided into an even number of bends; -- said of a shield or its charge. Cussans. 

BENE:  See Benne. 

BENE:  A prayer; boon. [Archaic] What is good for a bootless bene Wordsworth.  BENE; BEN Bene, Ben, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)  A hoglike mammal of New Guinea (Porcula papuensis). 

BENEAPED:  See Neaped. 

BENEDICITE:  A canticle (the Latin version of which begins with this word) which may be used in the order for morning prayer in the Church of England. It is taken from an apocryphal addition to the third chapter of Daniel. 

BENEDICITE:  An exclamation corresponding to Bless you !.  BENEDICT; BENEDICK Ben"e*dict, Ben"e*dick, n. Etym: [From Benedick, one of the characters in Shakespeare's play of "Much Ado about Nothing."]  A married man, or a man newly married. 

BENEDICT:  Having mild and salubrious qualities. [Obs.] Bacon. 

BENEDICTINE:  Pertaining to the monks of St. Benedict, or St. Benet. 

BENEDICTINE:  One of a famous order of monks, established by St. Benedict of Nursia in the sixth century. This order was introduced into the United States in 1846.  Note: The Benedictines wear black clothing, and are sometimes called Black Monks. The name Black Fr which belongs to the Dominicans, is also sometimes applied to the Benedictines. 

BENEDICTION:  The short prayer which closes public worship; as, to give the benediction.  3. (Eccl.)  The form of instituting an abbot, answering to the consecration of a bishop. Ayliffe.  4. (R. C. Ch.)  A solemn rite by which bells, banners, candles, etc., are blessed with holy water, and formally dedicated to God. 

BENEDICTIONAL:  A book of benedictions. 

BENEDICTIONARY:  A collected series of benedictions. The benedictionary of Bishop Athelwold. G. Gurton's Needle. 

BENEDICTIVE:  Tending to bless. Gauden. 

BENEDICTORY:  Expressing wishes for good; as, a benedictory prayer. Thackeray. 

BENEDICTUS:  The song of Zacharias at the birth of John the Baptist (Luke i. 68); -- so named from the first word of the Latin version. 

BENEDIGHT:  Blessed. [R.] Longfellow. 

BENEFACTOR:  One who confers a benefit or benefits. Bacon. 

BENEFACTRESS:  A woman who confers a benefit. His benefactress blushes at the deed. Cowper. 

BENEFIC:  Favorable; beneficent. Milton. 

BENEFICE:  An estate in lands; a fief.  Note: Such an estate was granted at first for life only, and held on the mere good pleasure of the donor; but afterward, becoming hereditary, it received the appellation of fief, and the term benefice became appropriated to church livings.  3. An ecclesiastical living and church preferment, as in the Church of England; a church endowed with a revenue for the maintenance of divine service. See Advowson.  Note: All church preferments are called benefices, except bishoprics, which are called dignities. But, ordinarily, the term dignity is applied to bishoprics, deaneries, archdeaconries, and prebendaryships; benefice to parsonages, vicarages, and donatives. 

BENEFICE:  To endow with a benefice.  Note: [Commonly in the past participle.] 

BENEFICED:  Possessed of a benefice o "Beneficed clergymen." Burke. 

BENEFICELESS:  Having no benefice. "Beneficeless precisians." Sheldon. 

BENEFICENCE:  The practice of doing good; active goodness, kindness, or charity; bounty springing from purity and goodness. And whose beneficence no charge exhausts. Cowper.  Syn.  -- See Benevolence. 

BENEFICENT:  , a. Doing or producing good; performing acts of kindness and charity; characterized by beneficence. The beneficent fruits of Christianity. Prescott.  Syn.  -- See Benevolent. 

BENEFICENTIAL:  Relating to beneficence. 

BENEFICENTLY:  In a beneficent manner; with beneficence. 

BENEFICIAL:  Receiving, or entitled to have or receive, advantage, use, or benefit; as, the beneficial owner of an estate. Kent.  3. King. [Obs.] "A beneficial foe." B. Jonson.  Syn.  -- See Advantage. 

BENEFICIALLY:  In a beneficial or advantageous manner; profitably; helpfully. 

BENEFICIALNESS:  The quality of being beneficial; profitableness. 

BENEFICIATE:  To reduce (ores).  -- Ben`e*fi`ci*a"tion (n. 

BENEFICIENT:  Beneficent. [Obs.] 

BENEFIT:  Natural advantaged; endowments; accomplishments. [R.] "The benefits of your own country." Shak. Benefit of clergy. (Law) See under Clergy.  Syn.  -- Profit; service; use; avail. See Advantage. 

BENEFIT:  To be beneficial to; to do good to; to advantage; to advance in health or prosperity; to be useful to; to profit. I will repent of the good, wherewith I said I would benefit them. Jer. xviii. 10. 

BENEFIT:  To gain advantage; to make improvement; to profit; as, he will benefit by the change. 

BENEFITER:  One who confers a benefit; -- also, one who receives a benefit.  BENEFIT SOCIETY Benefit society.  A society or association formed for mutual insurance, as among tradesmen or in labor unions, to provide for relief in sickness, old age, and for the expenses of burial. Usually called friendly society in Great Britain. 

BENEME:  To deprive (of), or take away (from). [Obs.] 

BENEMPT:  of Bename.  1. Promised; vowed. [Obs.] Spenser.  2. Named; styled. [Archaic] Sir W. Scott.  BENE PLACITO Be`ne plac"i*to. Etym: [It. beneplacito pleasure, fr. L. bene well + placitus pleasing.]  1. At or during pleasure. For our English judges there never was . . . any bene placito as their tenure. F. Harrison.  2. (Mus.)  At pleasure; ad libitum. 

BENET:  To catch in a net; to insnare. Shak. 

BENEVOLENT:  Having a disposition to do good; possessing or manifesting love to mankind, and a desire to promote their prosperity and happiness; disposed to give to good objects; kind; charitable.  -- Be*nev"o*lent*ly, adv.  Syn.  -- Benevolent, Beneficent. Etymologically considered, benevolent implies wishing well to others, and beneficent, doing well. But by degrees the word benevolent has been widened to include not only feelings, but actions; thus, we speak of benevolent operations, benevolent labors for the public good, benevolent societies. In like manner, beneficent is now often applied to feelings; thus, we speak of the beneficent intentions of a donor. This extension of the terms enables us to mark nicer shades of meaning. Thus, the phrase "benevolent labors" turns attention to the source of these labors, viz., benevolent feeling; while beneficent would simply mark them as productive of good. So, "beneficent intentions" point to the feelings of the donor as bent upon some specific good act; while "benevolent intentions" would only denote a general wish and design to do good. 

BENEVOLOUS:  Kind; benevolent. [Obs.] T. Puller. 

BENGAL:  The language spoken in Bengal. 

BENGALESE:  Of or pertaining to Bengal.  -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Bengal. 

BENGOLA:  A Bengal light. 

BENIGHTMENT:  The condition of being benighted. 

BENIGNANCY:  Benignant quality; kindliness. 

BENIGNANT:  Kind; gracious; favorable.  -- Be*nig"nant*ly, adv. 

BENIGNLY:  In a benign manner. 

BENIM:  To take away. [Obs.] Ire . . . benimeth the man fro God. Chaucer. 

BENISON:  Blessing; beatitude; benediction. Shak. More precious than the benison of friends. Talfourd. 

BENITIER:  A holy-water stoup. Shipley. 

BENJAMIN:  See Benzoin. 

BENJAMIN:  A kind of upper coat for men. [Colloq. Eng.] 

BENJAMITE:  A descendant of Benjamin; one of the tribe of Benjamin. Judg. iii. 15. 

BENNE:  The name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum), originally Asiatic; -- also called oil plant. From their seeds an oil is expressed, called benne oil, used mostly for making soap. In the southern United States the seeds are used in candy. 

BENNET:  The common yellow-flowered avens of Europe (Geum urbanum); herb bennet. The name is sometimes given to other plants, as the hemlock, valerian, etc. 

BENSHEE:  See Banshee. 

BENT:  imp. & p. p. of Bend. 

BENT:  A transverse frame of a framed structure.  6. Tension; force of acting; energy; impetus. [Archaic] The full bent and stress of the soul. Norris.  Syn.  -- Predilection; turn. Bent, Bias, Inclination, Prepossession. These words agree in describing a permanent influence upon the mind which tends to decide its actions. Bent denotes a fixed tendency of the mind in a given direction. It is the widest of these terms, and applies to the will, the intellect, and the affections, taken conjointly; as, the whole bent of his character was toward evil practices. Bias is literally a weight fixed on one side of a ball used in bowling, and causing it to swerve from a straight course. Used figuratively, bias applies particularly to the judgment, and denotes something which acts with a permanent force on the character through that faculty; as, the bias of early education, early habits, etc. Inclination is an excited state of desire or appetency; as, a strong inclination to the study of the law. Prepossession is a mingled state of feeling and opinion in respect to some person or subject, which has laid hold of and occupied the mind previous to inquiry. The word is commonly used in a good sense, an unfavorable impression of this kind being denominated a prejudice. "Strong minds will be strongly bent, and usually labor under a strong bias; but there is no mind so weak and powerless as not to have its inclinations, and none so guarded as to be without its prepossessions." Crabb. 

BENT:  A grass of the genus Agrostis, esp. Agrostis vulgaris, or redtop. The name is also used of many other grasses, esp. in America.  3. Any neglected field or broken ground; a common; a moor. [Obs.] Wright. Bowmen bickered upon the bent. Chevy Chase.  BENT GRASS Bent" grass`. (Bot.)  Same as Bent, a kind of grass. 

BENTHAL:  Relating to the deepest zone or region of the ocean. 

BENTHAMIC:  Of or pertaining to Bentham or Benthamism. 

BENTHAMISM:  That phase of the doctrine of utilitarianism taught by Jeremy Bentham; the doctrine that the morality of actions is estimated and determined by their utility; also, the theory that the sensibility to pleasure and the recoil from pain are the only motives which influence human desires and actions, and that these are the sufficient explanation of ethical and jural conceptions. 

BENTHAMITE:  One who believes in Benthamism. 

BENTHOS:  The bottom of the sea, esp. of the deep oceans; hence (Bot. & Zoöl.), the fauna and flora of the sea bottom; -- opposed to plankton.  BENTING TIME Bent"ing time".  The season when pigeons are said to feed on bents, before peas are ripe. Bare benting times . . . may come. Dryden. 

BENUMB:  To make torpid; to deprive of sensation or sensibility; to stupefy; as, a hand or foot benumbed by cold. The creeping death benumbed her senses first. Dryden. 

BENUMBED:  Made torpid; numbed; stupefied; deadened; as, a benumbed body and mind.  -- Be*numbed"ness, n. 

BENUMBMENT:  Act of benumbing, or state of being benumbed; torpor. Kirby. 

BENZAL:  A transparent crystalline substance, 

BENZAMIDE:  A transparent crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.NH2, obtained by the action of ammonia upon chloride of benzoyl, as also by several other reactions with benzoyl compounds. 

BENZENE:  A volatile, very inflammable liquid, C6H6, contained in the naphtha produced by the destructive distillation of coal, from which it is separated by fractional distillation. The name is sometimes applied also to the impure commercial product or benzole, and also, but rarely, to a similar mixed product of petroleum. Benzene nucleus, Benzene ring (Chem.), a closed chain or ring, consisting of six carbon atoms, each with one hydrogen atom attached, regarded as the type from which the aromatic compounds are derived. This ring formula is provisionally accepted as representing the probable constitution of the benzene molecule, C6H6, and as the type on which its derivatives are formed. 

BENZILE:  A yellowish crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.CO.C6H5, formed from benzoin by the action of oxidizing agents, and consisting of a doubled benzoyl radical. 

BENZOATE:  A salt formed by the union of benzoic acid with any salifiable base. 

BENZOIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, benzoin. Benzoic acid, or flowers of benzoin, a peculiar vegetable acid, C6H5.CO2H, obtained from benzoin, and some other balsams, by sublimation or decoction. It is also found in the urine of infants and herbivorous animals. It crystallizes in the form of white, satiny flakes; its odor is aromatic; its taste is pungent, and somewhat acidulous.  -- Benzoic aldehyde, oil of bitter almonds; the aldehyde, C6H5.CHO, intermediate in composition between benzoic or benzyl alcohol, and benzoic acid. It is a thin colorless liquid. 

BENZOIN:  The spicebush (Lindera benzoin). Flowers of benzoin, benzoic acid. See under Benzoic. 

BENZOINATED:  Containing or impregnated with benzoin; as, benzoinated lard.  BENZOLE; BENZOL Ben"zole Ben"zol, n. Etym: [Benzoin + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)  An impure benzene, used in the arts as a solvent, and for various other purposes. See Benzene.  Note: It has great solvent powers, and is used by manufacturers of India rubber and gutta percha; also for cleaning soiled kid gloves, and for other purposes. 

BENZOLINE:  A white crystalline powder used as an intestinal antiseptic; beta-naphthol benzoate. 

BENZOSOL:  Guaiacol benzoate, used as an intestinal antiseptic and as a substitute for creosote in phthisis. It is a colorless crystalline pewder. 

BENZOYL:  A compound radical, C6H5.CO; the base of benzoic acid, of the oil of bitter almonds, and of an extensive series of compounds. [Formerly written also benzule.] 

BENZYL:  A compound radical, C6H5.CH2, related to toluene and benzoic acid; -- commonly used adjectively. 

BEPAINT:  To paint; to cover or color with, or as with, paint. Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek. Shak. 

BEPELT:  To pelt roundly. 

BEPINCH:  To pinch, or mark with pinches. Chapman. 

BEPLASTER:  To plaster over; to cover or smear thickly; to bedaub. Beplastered with rouge. Goldsmith. 

BEPLUMED:  Decked with feathers. 

BEPOMMEL:  To pommel; to beat, as with a stick; figuratively, to assail or criticise in conversation, or in writing. Thackeray. 

BEPOWDER:  To sprinkle or cover with powder; to powder. 

BEPRAISE:  To praise greatly or extravagantly. Goldsmith. 

BEPROSE:  To reduce to prose. [R.] "To beprose all rhyme." Mallet. 

BEPUFFED:  Puffed; praised. Carlyle. 

BEPURPLE:  To tinge or dye with a purple color. 

BEQUEATHABLE:  Capable of being bequeathed. 

BEQUEATHAL:  The act of bequeathing; bequeathment; bequest. Fuller. 

BEQUEATHMENT:  The act of bequeathing, or the state of being bequeathed; a bequest. 

BEQUEST:  To bequeath, or leave as a legacy. [Obs.] "All I have to bequest." Gascoigne. 

BEQUETHEN:  old p. p. of Bequeath. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BEQUOTE:  To quote constantly or with great frequency. 

BERAIN:  To rain upon; to wet with rain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BERATE:  To rate or chide vehemently; to scold. Holland. Motley. 

BERATTLE:  To make rattle; to scold vociferously; to cry down. [Obs.] Shak. 

BERAY:  TO make foul; to soil; to defile. [Obs.] Milton. 

BERBE:  An African genet (Genetta pardina). See Genet. 

BERBER:  A member of a race somewhat resembling the Arabs, but often classed as Hamitic, who were formerly the inhabitants of the whole of North Africa from the Mediterranean southward into the Sahara, and who still occupy a large part of that region; -- called also Kabyles. Also, the language spoken by this people. 

BERBERINE:  An alkaloid obtained, as a bitter, yellow substance, from the root of the barberry, gold thread, and other plants. 

BERBERRY:  See Barberry. 

BERCEUSE:  A vocal or instrumental composition of a soft tranquil character, having a lulling effect; a cradle song. 

BERDASH:  ,n.A kind of neckcloth. [Obs.] A treatise against the cravat and berdash. Steele. 

BERE:  , v. t. Etym: [Cf. OIcel. berja to strike.] To pierce. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BERE:  ,n.See Bear, barley. [Scot.] 

BEREAVEMENT:  The state of being bereaved; deprivation; esp., the loss of a relative by death. 

BEREAVER:  One who bereaves. 

BEREFT:  of Bereave.  BERENICE'S HAIR Ber`e*ni"ce's Hair`. [See Berenice's, Locks, in Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.] (Astron.)  See Coma Berenices, under Coma. 

BERETTA:  Same as Berretta. 

BERG:  A large mass or hill, as of ice. Glittering bergs of ice. Tennyson . 

BERGANDER:  A European duck (Anas tadorna). See Sheldrake. 

BERGERET:  A pastoral song. [Obs.] 

BERGH:  A hill. [Obs.] 

BERGMASTER:  See Barmaster. 

BERGMEAL:  (Min.) An earthy substance, resembling fine flour. It is composed of the shells of infusoria, and in Lapland and Sweden is sometimes eaten, mixed with flour or ground birch bark, in times of scarcity. This name is also given to a white powdery variety of calcite. 

BERGMOTE:  See Barmote. 

BERGOMASK:  A rustic dance, so called in ridicule of the people of Bergamo, in Italy, once noted for their clownishness. 

BERGSCHRUND:  The crevasse or series of crevasses, usually deep and often broad, frequently occurring near the head of a mountain glacier, about where the névé field joins the valley portion of the glacier. 

BERGSTOCK:  A long pole with a spike at the end, used in climbing mountains; an alpenstock. 

BERGYLT:  The Norway haddock. See Rosefish. 

BERHYME:  To mention in rhyme or verse; to rhyme about.  Note: [Sometimes use depreciatively.] Shak. 

BERIBERI:  An acute disease occurring in India, characterized by multiple inflammatory changes in the nerves, producing great muscular debility, a painful rigidity of the limbs, and cachexy. 

BERIME:  To berhyme.  Note: [The earlier and etymologically preferable spelling.]  BERING SEA CONTROVERSY Be"ring Sea Controversy.  A controversy (1886 --93) between Great Britain and the United States as to the right of Canadians not licensed by the United States to carry on seal fishing in the Bering Sea, over which the United States claimed jurisdiction as a mare clausum. A court of arbitration, meeting in Paris in 1893, decided against the claim of the United States, but established regulations for the preservation of the fur seal. 

BERKELEIAN:  ,a.Of or relating to Bishop Berkeley or his system of idealism; as, Berkeleian philosophy.  -- Berke"ley*ism, n. 

BERLIN:  A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and the ditch.  2. (Engineering)  A ledge at the bottom of a bank or cutting, to catch earth that may roll down the slope, or to strengthen the bank.  BERMUDA GRASS Ber*mu"da grass`. (Bot.)  A kind of grass (Cynodon Dactylon) esteemed for pasture in the Southern United States. It is a native of Southern Europe, but is now wide-spread in warm countries; -- called also scutch grass, and in Bermuda, devil grass.  BERMUDA LILY Ber*mu"da lil"y. (Bot.)  The large white lily (Lilium longiflorum eximium, syn. L. Harrisii) which is extensively cultivated in Bermuda. 

BERNACLE:  See Barnacle.  BERNA FLY Ber"na fly`. (Zoöl.)  A Brazilian dipterous insect of the genus Trypeta, which lays its eggs in the nostrils or in wounds of man and beast, where the larvæ do great injury. 

BERNARDINE:  Of or pertaining to St. Bernard of Clairvaux, or to the Cistercian monks.  -- n.  A Cistercian monk. 

BERNESE:  Pertaining to the city o -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or natives of Bern. 

BERNICLE:  A bernicle goose. [Written also barnacle.] Bernicle goose (Zoöl.), a goose (Branta leucopsis), of Arctic Europe and America. It was formerly believed that it hatched from the cirripeds of the sea (Lepas), which were, therefore, called barnacles, goose barnacles, or Anatifers. The name is also applied to other related species. See Anatifa and Cirripedia. 

BERNOUSE:  Some as Burnoose. 

BEROB:  To rob; to plunder. [Obs.] 

BEROE:  A small, oval, transparent jellyfish, belonging to the Ctenophora. 

BERRETTA:  A square cap worn by ecclesiastics of the Roman Catholic Church. A cardinal's berretta is scarlet; that worn by other clerics is black, except that a bishop's is lined with green. [Also spelt beretta, biretta, etc.] 

BERRIED:  Furnished with berries; consisting of a berry; baccate; as, a berried shrub. 

BERRY:  A small fruit that is pulpy or succulent throughout, having seeds loosely imbedded in the pulp, as the currant, grape, blueberry.  3. The coffee bean.  4. One of the ova or eggs of a fish. Travis. In berry, containing ova or spawn. 

BERRY:  To bear or produce berries. 

BERRY:  A mound; a hillock. W. Browne. 

BERRYING:  A seeking for or gathering of berries, esp. of such as grow wild. 

BERSEEM:  An Egyptian clover (Trifolium alexandrinum) extensively cultivated as a forage plant and soil-renewing crop in the alkaline soils of the Nile valley, and now introduced into the southwestern United States. It is more succulent than other clovers or than alfalfa. Called also Egyptian clover.  BERSERK; BERSERKER Ber"serk, Ber"serk*er, n. Etym: [Icel. berserkr.]  1. (Scand. Myth.)  One of a class of legendary heroes, who fought frenzied by intoxicating liquors, and naked, regardless of wounds. Longfellow.  2. One who fights as if frenzied, like a Berserker. 

BERSTLE:  See Bristle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BERTHA:  A kind of collar or cape worn by ladies. 

BERTHAGE:  A place for mooring vessels in a dock or harbor. 

BERTHIERITE:  A double sulphide of antimony and iron, of a dark steel-gray color. 

BERTHING:  The planking outside of a vessel, above the sheer strake. Smyth.  BERTILLON SYSTEM Ber`til`lon" sys"tem. [After Alphonse Bertillon, French anthropologist.]  A system for the identification of persons by a physical description based upon anthropometric measurements, notes of markings, deformities, color, impression of thumb lines, etc. 

BERTRAM:  Pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum). 

BERYCOID:  Of or pertaining to the Berycidæ, a family of marine fishes. 

BERYL:  A mineral of great hardness, and, when transparent, of much beauty. It occurs in hexagonal prisms, commonly of a green or bluish green color, but also yellow, pink, and white. It is a silicate of aluminium and glucinum (beryllium). The aquamarine is a transparent, sea-green variety used as a gem. The emerald is another variety highly prized in jewelry, and distinguished by its deep color, which is probably due to the presence of a little oxide of chromium. 

BERYLLINE:  Like a beryl; of a light or bluish green color. 

BERYLLIUM:  A metallic element found in the beryl. See Glucinum. 

BERYLLOID:  A solid consisting of a double twelve-sided pyramid; -- so called because the planes of this form occur on crystals of beryl.  BESAIEL; BESAILE; BESAYLE Be*saiel", Be*saile", Be*sayle" (, n. Etym: [OF. beseel, F. bisaïeul, fr. L. bis twice + LL. avolus, dim. of L. avus grandfather.]  1. A great-grandfather. [Obs.]  2. (Law)  A kind of writ which formerly lay where a great-grandfather died seized of lands in fee simple, and on the day of his death a stranger abated or entered and kept the heir out. This is now abolished. Blackstone. 

BESAINT:  To make a saint of. 

BESANT:  See Bezant.  BES-ANTLER Bes-ant"ler, n.  Same as Bez-antler. 

BESCORN:  To treat with scorn. "Then was he bescorned." Chaucer. 

BESCRATCH:  To tear with the nails; to cover with scratches. 

BESCRAWL:  To cover with scrawls; to scribble over. Milton. 

BESCREEN:  To cover with a screen, or as with a screen; to shelter; to conceal. Shak. 

BESCRIBBLE:  To scribble over. "Bescribbled with impertinences." Milton.  BESCUMBER; BESCUMMER Be*scum"ber, Be*scum"mer, v. t. Etym: [Pref. be- + scumber, scummer.]  To discharge ordure or dung upon. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BESEE:  To see; to look; to mind. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

BESEECH:  Solicitation; supplication. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak. 

BESEECHER:  One who beseeches. 

BESEECHING:  Entreating urgently; imploring; as, a beseeching look.  -- Be*seech"ing*ly, adv.  -- Be*seech"ing*ness, n. 

BESEECHMENT:  The act of beseeching or entreating earnestly. [R.] Goodwin. 

BESEEK:  To beseech. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BESEEM:  Literally: To appear or seem (well, ill, best, etc.) for (one) to do or to have. Hence: To be fit, suitable, or proper for, or worthy of; to become; to befit. A duty well beseeming the preachers. Clarendon. What form of speech or behavior beseemeth us, in our prayers to God Hocker. 

BESEEM:  To seem; to appear; to be fitting. [Obs.] "As beseemed best." Spenser. 

BESEEMING:  Becoming; suitable. [Archaic] -- Be*seem"ing*ly, adv.  -- Be*seem"ing*ness, n. 

BESEEMLY:  Fit; suitable; becoming. [Archaic] In beseemly order sitten there. Shenstone. 

BESETMENT:  The act of besetting, or the state of being beset; also, that which besets one, as a sin. "Fearing a besetment." Kane. 

BESETTER:  One who, or that which, besets. 

BESETTING:  Habitually attacking, harassing, or pressing upon or about; as, a besetting sin. 

BESHINE:  To shine upon; to ullumine. 

BESHOW:  A large food fish (Anoplopoma fimbria) of the north Pacific coast; -- called also candlefish. 

BESHREW:  To curse; to execrate. Beshrew me, but I love her heartily. Shak.  Note: Often a very mild form of imprecation; sometimes so far from implying a curse, as to be uttered coaxingly, nay even with some tenderness. Schmidt. 

BESHROUD:  To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to screen. 

BESHUT:  To shut up or out. [Obs.] 

BESIDES:  Over and above; separate or distinct from; in addition to; other than; else than. See Beside, prep., 3, and Syn. under Beside. Besides your cheer, you shall have sport. Shak. 

BESIEGE:  To beset or surround with armed forces, for the purpose of compelling to surrender; to lay siege to; to beleaguer; to beset. Till Paris was besieged, famished, and lost. Shak.  Syn.  -- To environ; hem in; invest; encompass. 

BESIEGEMENT:  The act of besieging, or the state of being besieged. Golding. 

BESIEGER:  One who besieges; -- opposed to the besieged. 

BESIEGING:  That besieges; laying siege to.  -- Be*sie"ging*ly, adv. 

BESIT:  To suit; to fit; to become. [Obs.] 

BESLABBER:  To beslobber. 

BESLAVE:  To enslave. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

BESLAVER:  To defile with slaver; to beslobber. 

BESLIME:  To daub with slime; to soil. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BESLOBBER:  To slobber on; to smear with spittle running from the mouth. Also Fig.: as, to beslobber with praise. 

BESLUBBER:  To beslobber. 

BESMEAR:  To smear with any viscous, glutinous matter; to bedaub; to soil. Besmeared with precious balm. Spenser. 

BESMEARER:  One that besmears. 

BESMIRCH:  To smirch or soil; to discolor; to obscure. Hence: To dishonor; to sully. Shak. 

BESMUT:  To blacken with smut; to foul with soot. 

BESNUFF:  To befoul with snuff. Young. 

BESOGNE:  A worthless fellow; a bezonian. [Obs.] 

BESOM:  A brush of twigs for sweeping; a broom; anything which sweeps away or destroys. [Archaic or Fig.] I will sweep it with the besom of destruction. Isa. xiv. 23. The housemaid with her besom. W. Irving. 

BESOM:  To sweep, as with a besom. [Archaic or Poetic] Cowper. Rolls back all Greece, and besoms wide the plain. Barlow. 

BESOMER:  One who uses a besom. [Archaic] 

BESORT:  To assort or be congruous with; to fit, or become. [Obs.] Such men as may besort your age. Shak. 

BESORT:  Befitting associates or attendants. [Obs.] With such accommodation and besort As levels with her breeding. Shak. 

BESOT:  To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; to infatuate. Fools besotted with their crimes. Hudibras. 

BESOTTED:  Made sottish, senseless, or infatuated; characterized by drunken stupidity, or by infatuation; stupefied. "Besotted devotion." Sir W. Scott.  -- Be*sot"ted*ly, adv.  -- Be*sot"ted*ness, n. Milton. 

BESOTTINGLY:  In a besotting manner. 

BESOUGHT:  of Beseech. 

BESPANGLE:  To adorn with spangles; to dot or sprinkle with something brilliant or glittering. The grass . . . is all bespangled with dewdrops. Cowper. 

BESPAWL:  To daub, soil, or make foul with spawl or spittle. [Obs.] Milton. 

BESPEAK:  To speak. [Obs.] Milton. 

BESPEAK:  A bespeaking. Among actors, a benefit (when a particular play is bespoken.) "The night of her bespeak." Dickens. 

BESPEAKER:  One who bespeaks. 

BESPECKLE:  To mark with speckles or spots. Milton. 

BESPEW:  To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on. 

BESPICE:  To season with spice, or with some spicy drug. Shak. 

BESPIRT:  Same as Bespurt. 

BESPIT:  To daub or soil with spittle. Johnson. 

BESPOKE:  imp. & p. p. of Bespeak. 

BESPOT:  To mark with spots, or as with spots. 

BESPREAD:  To spread or cover over. The carpet which bespread His rich pavilion's floor. Glover. 

BESPRENT:  Sprinkled over; strewed. His face besprent with liquid crystal shines. Shenstone. The floor with tassels of fir was besprent. Longfellow. 

BESPRINKLE:  To sprinkle over; to scatter over. The bed besprinkles, and bedews the ground. Dryden. 

BESPRINKLER:  One who, or that which, besprinkles. 

BESPRINKLING:  The act of sprinkling anything; a sprinkling over. 

BESPURT:  To spurt on or over; to asperse. [Obs.] Milton.  BESSEMER STEEL Bes"se*mer steel` (.  Steel made directly from cast iron, by burning out a portion of the carbon and other impurities that the latter contains, through the agency of a blast of air which is forced through the molten metal; -- so called from Sir Henry Bessemer, an English engineer, the inventor of the process. 

BEST:  Utmost; highest endeavor or state; most nearly perfect thing, or being, or action; as, to do one's best; to the best of our ability. At best, in the utmost degree or extent applicable to the case; under the most favorable circumstances; as, life is at best very short.  -- For best, finally. [Obs.] "Those constitutions . . . are now established for best, and not to be mended." Milton.  -- To get the best of, to gain an advantage over, whether fairly or unfairly.  -- To make the best of. (a) To improve to the utmost; to use or dispose of to the greatest advantage. "Let there be freedom to carry their commodities where they can make the best of them." Bacon. (b) To reduce to the least possible inconvenience; as, to make the best of ill fortune or a bad bargain. 

BEST:  To get the better of. [Colloq.] 

BESTAD:  Beset; put in peril. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BESTAIN:  To stain. 

BESTAR:  To sprinkle with, or as with, stars; to decorate with, or as with, stars; to bestud. "Bestarred with anemones." W. Black. 

BESTIAL:  A domestic animal; also collectively, cattle; as, other kinds of bestial. [Scot.] 

BESTIALIZE:  To make bestial, or like a beast; to degrade; to brutalize. The process of bestializing humanity. Hare. 

BESTIALLY:  In a bestial manner. 

BESTIARY:  A treatise on beasts; esp., one of the moralizing or allegorical beast tales written in the Middle Ages.  A bestiary . . . in itself one of the numerous mediæval renderings of the fantastic mystical zoölogy. Saintsbury. 

BESTICK:  To stick over, as with sharp points pressed in; to mark by infixing points or spots here and there; to pierce. Truth shall retire Bestuck with slanderous darts. Milton. 

BESTILL:  To make still. 

BESTIR:  To put into brisk or vigorous action; to move with life and vigor; -- usually with the reciprocal pronoun. You have so bestirred your valor. Shak. Rouse and bestir themselves ere well awake. Milton. 

BESTORM:  To storm. Young. 

BESTOWAL:  The act of bestowing; disposal. 

BESTOWER:  One that bestows. 

BESTRADDLE:  To bestride. 

BESTRAUGHT:  Out of one's senses; distracted; mad. [Obs.] Shak. 

BESTREAK:  To streak. 

BESTREW:  To strew or scatter over; to besprinkle. [Spelt also bestrow.] Milton. 

BESTRODE:  imp. & p. p. of Bestride. 

BESTROWN:  p. p. of Bestrew. 

BESTUCK:  imp. & p. p. Bestick. 

BESTUD:  To set or adorn, as with studs or bosses; to set thickly; to stud; as, to bestud with stars. Milton. 

BESWIKE:  To lure; to cheat. [Obs.] Gower. 

BET:  That which is laid, staked, or pledged, as between two parties, upon the event of a contest or any contingent issue; the act of giving such a pledge; a wager. "Having made his bets." Goldsmith. 

BET:  To stake or pledge upon the event of a contingent issue; to wager. John a Gaunt loved him well, and betted much money on his head. Shak. I'll bet you two to one I'll make him do it. O. W. Holmes. 

BET:  imp. & p. p. of Beat. [Obs.] 

BET:  An early form of Better. [Obs.] To go bet, to go fast; to hurry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BETA:  The second letter of the Greek alphabet, B, b. See B, and cf. etymology of Alphabet. Beta (B, b) is used variously for classifying, as:  (a) (Astron.) To designate some bright star, usually the second brightest, of a constellation, as, b Aurigæ.  (b) (Chem.) To distinguish one of two or more isomers; also, to indicate the position of substituting atoms or groups in certain compounds; as, b-naphthol. With acids, it commonly indicates that the substituent is in union with the carbon atom next to that to which the carboxyl group is attached.  BETACISM; BETACISMUS Be"ta*cism,  Be`ta*cis"mus, n.  Excessive or extended use of the b sound in speech, due to conversion of other sounds into it, as through inability to distinguish them from  b, or because of difficulty in pronouncing them. 

BETAINE:  A nitrogenous base, C5H11NO2, produced artificially, and also occurring naturally in beetroot molasses and its residues, from which it is extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- called also lycine and oxyneurine. It has a sweetish taste. 

BETAKE:  Penetrating rays readily deflected by a magnetic or electric field, emitted by radioactive substances, as radium. They consist of negatively charged particles or electrons, apparently the same in kind as those of the cathode rays, but having much higher velocities (about 35,000 to 180,000 miles per second). 

BETAUGHT:  Delivered; committed in trust. [Obs.] 

BETE:  To better; to mend. See Beete. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BETEELA:  An East India muslin, formerly used for cravats, veils, etc. [Obs.] 

BETEL:  A species of pepper (Piper betle), the leaves of which are chewed, with the areca or betel nut and a little shell lime, by the inhabitants of the East Indies. I is a woody climber with ovate manynerved leaves. 

BETELGUESE:  A bright star of the first magnitude, near one shoulder of Orion. [Written also Betelgeux and Betelgeuse.]  BETEL NUT Be"tel nut`.  The nutlike seed of the areca palm, chewed in the East with betel leaves (whence its name) and shell lime.  BETE NOIRE Bête" noire". Etym: [Fr., lit. black beast.]  Something especially hated or dreaded; a bugbear.  BETHABARA WOOD Beth*ab"a*ra wood`. (Bot.)  A highly elastic wood, used for fishing rods, etc. The tree is unknown, but it is thought to be East Indian. 

BETHINK:  To call to mind; to recall or bring to recollection, reflection, or consideration; to think; to consider; -- generally followed by a reflexive pronoun, often with of or that before the subject of thought. I have bethought me of another fault. Shak. The rest . . . may . . . bethink themselves, and recover. Milton. We bethink a means to break it off. Shak.  Syn.  -- To recollect; remember; reflect. 

BETHINK:  To think; to recollect; to consider. "Bethink ere thou dismiss us." Byron. 

BETHLEHEM:  In the Ethiopic church, a small building attached to a church edifice, in which the bread for the eucharist is made. Audsley.  BETHLEHEMITE; BETHLEMITE Beth"le*hem*ite, Beth"lem*ite, n.  1. An inhabitant of Bethlehem in Judea.  2. An insane person; a madman; a bedlamite.  3. One of an extinct English order of monks. 

BETHOUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Bethink. 

BETHRALL:  To reduce to thralldom; to inthrall. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BETHUMB:  To handle; to wear or soil by handling; as books. Poe. 

BETHUMP:  To beat or thump soundly. Shak. 

BETIDE:  To happen to; to befall; to come to ; as, woe betide the wanderer. What will betide the few Milton. 

BETIDE:  To come to pass; to happen; to occur. A salve for any sore that may betide. Shak.  Note: Shakespeare has used it with of. "What would betide of me "  BETIME; BETIMES Be*time", Be*times", adv. Etym: [Pref. be- (for by) + time; that is, by the proper time. The -s is an adverbial ending.]  1. In good season or time; before it is late; seasonably; early. To measure life learn thou betimes. Milton. To rise betimes is often harder than to do all the day's work. Barrow.  2. In a short time; soon; speedily; forth with. He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes. Shak. 

BETITLE:  To furnish with a title or titles; to entitle. [Obs.] Carlyle. 

BETON:  The French name for concrete; hence, concrete made after the French fashion. 

BETONGUE:  To attack with the tongue; to abuse; to insult. 

BETONY:  A plant of the genus Betonica (Linn.).  Note: The purple or wood betony (B. officinalis, Linn.) is common in Europe, being formerly used in medicine, and (according to Loudon) in dyeing wool a yellow color. 

BETOOK:  of Betake. 

BETORN:  Torn in pieces; tattered. 

BETOSS:  To put in violent motion; to agitate; to disturb; to toss. "My betossed soul." Shak. 

BETRAYAL:  The act or the result of betraying. 

BETRAYER:  One who, or that which, betrays. 

BETRAYMENT:  Betrayal. [R.] Udall. 

BETRIM:  To set in order; to adorn; to deck, to embellish; to trim. Shak. 

BETROTHAL:  The act of betrothing, or the fact of being betrothed; a mutual promise, engagement, or contract for a future marriage between the persons betrothed; betrothment; affiance. "The feast of betrothal." Longfellow. 

BETROTHMENT:  The act of betrothing, or the state of being betrothed; betrothal. 

BETRUST:  To trust or intrust. [Obs.] 

BETRUSTMENT:  The act of intrusting, or the thing intrusted. [Obs.] Chipman. 

BETSO:  A small brass Venetian coin. [Obs.] 

BETTER:  To become better; to improve. Carlyle. 

BETTER:  One who bets or lays a wager. 

BETTERMENT:  An improvement of an estate which renders it better than mere repairing would do; -- generally used in the plural. [U. S.] Bouvier. 

BETTERMOST:  Best. [R.] "The bettermost classes." Brougham. 

BETTONG:  A small, leaping Australian marsupial of the genus Bettongia; the jerboa kangaroo. 

BETTOR:  One who bets; a better. Addison. 

BETTY:  A short bar used by thieves to wrench doors open. [Written also bettee.] The powerful betty, or the artful picklock. Arbuthnot.  2. Etym: [Betty, nickname for Elizabeth.]  A name of contempt given to a man who interferes with the duties of women in a household, or who occupies himself with womanish matters.  3. A pear-shaped bottle covered round with straw, in which olive oil is sometimes brought from Italy; -- called by chemists a Florence flask. [U. S.] Bartlett. 

BETULIN:  A substance of a resinous nature, obtained from the outer bark of the common European birch (Betula alba), or from the tar prepared therefrom; -- called also birch camphor. Watts. 

BETUMBLE:  To throw into disorder; to tumble. [R.] From her betumbled couch she starteth. Shak. 

BETUTOR:  To tutor; to instruct. Coleridge. 

BETWEEN:  Intermediate time or space; interval. [Poetic & R.] Shak. 

BEURRE:  A beurré (or buttery) pear, one with the meas, Beurré d'Anjou; Beurré Clairgeau. 

BEVEL:  To cut to a bevel angle; to slope the edge or surface of. 

BEVEL:  To deviate or incline from an angle of 90 Their houses are very ill built, the walls bevel. Swift.  BEVELED; BEVELLED Bev"eled, Bev"elled, a.  1. Formed to a bevel angle; sloping; as, the beveled edge of a table.  2. (Min.) Replaced by two planes inclining equally upon the adjacent planes, as an edge; having its edges replaces by sloping planes, as a cube or other solid.  BEVEL GEAR Bev"el gear`. (Mech.)  A kind of gear in which the two wheels working together lie in different planes, and have their teeth cut at right angles to the surfaces of two cones whose apices coincide with the point where the axes of the wheels would meet. 

BEVELMENT:  The replacement of an edge by two similar planes, equally inclined to the including faces or adjacent planes. 

BEVER:  A light repast between meals; a lunch. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

BEVER:  To take a light repast between meals. [Obs.] 

BEVILE:  A chief broken or opening like a carpenter's bevel. Encyc. Brit.  BEVILED; BEVILLED Bev"iled, Bev"illed, a. (Her.)  Notched with an angle like that inclosed by a carpenter's bevel; -- said of a partition line of a shield. 

BEWAIL:  To express deep sorrow for, as by wailing; to lament; to wail over. Hath widowed and unchilded many a one, Which to this hour bewail the injury. Shak.  Syn.  -- To bemoan; grieve.  -- See Deplore. 

BEWAIL:  To express grief; to lament. Shak. 

BEWAILABLE:  Such as may, or ought to, be bewailed; lamentable. 

BEWAILER:  One who bewails or laments. 

BEWAILING:  Wailing over; lamenting.  -- Be*wail"ing*ly, adv. 

BEWAILMENT:  The act of bewailing. 

BEWAKE:  To keep watch over; to keep awake. [Obs.] Gower. 

BEWARE:  To avoid; to take care of; to have a care for. [Obs.] "Priest, beware your beard." Shak. To wish them beware the son. Milton. 

BEWASH:  To drench or souse with water. "Let the maids bewash the men." Herrick. 

BEWEEP:  To weep over; to deplore; to bedew with tears. "His timeless death beweeping." Drayton. 

BEWEEP:  To weep. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BEWET:  To wet or moisten. Gay. 

BEWIG:  To cover (the head) with a wig. Hawthorne. 

BEWILDER:  To lead into perplexity or confusion, as for want of a plain path; to perplex with mazes; or in general, to perplex or confuse greatly. Lost and bewildered in the fruitless search. Addison.  Syn.  -- To perplex; puzzle; entangle; confuse; confound; mystify; embarrass; lead astray. 

BEWILDERED:  Greatly perplexed; as, a bewildered mind. 

BEWILDEREDNESS:  The state of being bewildered; bewilderment. [R.] 

BEWILDERING:  Causing bewilderment or great perplexity; as, bewildering difficulties.  -- Be*wil"der*ing*ly, adv. 

BEWINTER:  To make wintry. [Obs.] 

BEWIT:  A double slip of leather by which bells are fastened to a hawk's legs. 

BEWITCHEDNESS:  The state of being bewitched. Gauden. 

BEWITCHER:  One who bewitches. 

BEWITCHERY:  The power of bewitching or fascinating; bewitchment; charm; fascination. There is a certain bewitchery or fascination in words. South. 

BEWITCHING:  Having power to bewitch or fascinate; enchanting; captivating; charming.  -- Be*witch"ing*ly, adv.  -- Be*witch"ing*ness, n. 

BEWRAP:  To wrap up; to cover. Fairfax. 

BEWRAY:  To soil. See Beray. 

BEWRAY:  To expose; to reveal; to disclose; to betray. [Obs. or Archaic] The murder being once done, he is in less fear, and in more hope that the deed shall not be bewrayed or known. Robynson (More's Utopia. ) Thy speech bewrayeth thee. Matt. xxvi. 73. 

BEWRAYER:  One who, or that which, bewrays; a revealer. [Obs. or Archaic] Addison. 

BEWRAYMENT:  Betrayal. [R.] 

BEWRECK:  To wreck. [Obs.] 

BEWREKE:  To wreak; to avenge. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. 

BEWROUGHT:  Embroidered. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BEY:  A governor of a province or district in the Turkish dominions; also, in some places, a prince or nobleman; a beg; as, the bey of Tunis. 

BEYLIC:  The territory ruled by a bey. 

BEYOND:  Further away; at a distance; yonder. Lo, where beyond he lyeth languishing. Spenser. 

BEZANT:  A circle in or, i. e., gold, representing the gold coin called bezant. Burke.  3. A decoration of a flat surface, as of a band or belt, representing circular disks lapping one upon another.  BEZ-ANTLER Bez`-ant"ler, n. Etym: [L. bis twice (OF. bes) + E. antler.]  The second branch of a stag's horn. 

BEZEL:  The rim which encompasses and fastens a jewel or other object, as the crystal of a watch, in the cavity in which it is set. 

BEZIQUE:  A game at cards in which various combinations of cards in the hand, when declared, score points. 

BEZOAR:  A calculous concretion found in the intestines of certain ruminant animals (as the wild goat, the gazelle, and the Peruvian llama) formerly regarded as an unfailing antidote for poison, and a certain remedy for eruptive, pestilential, or putrid diseases. Hence: Any antidote or panacea.  Note: Two kinds were particularly esteemed, the Bezoar orientale of India, and the Bezoar occidentale of Peru. Bezoar antelope. See Antelope.  -- Bezoar goat (Zoöl.), the wild goat (Capra ægagrus).  -- Bezoar mineral, an old preparation of oxide of antimony. Ure. 

BEZOARDIC:  Pertaining to, or compounded with, bezoar.  -- n.  A medicine containing bezoar.  BEZOARTIC; BEZOARTICAL Bez`o*ar"tic, Bez`o*ar"tic*al, a. Etym: [See Bezoardic.]  Having the qualities of an antidote, or of bezoar; healing. [Obs.] 

BEZONIAN:  A low fellow or scoundrel; a beggar. Great men oft die by vile bezonians. Shak. 

BEZPOPOVTSY:  A Russian sect. See Raskolnik. 

BEZZLE:  To plunder; to waste in riot. [Obs.] 

BEZZLE:  To drink to excess; to revel. [Obs.] 

BHANG:  An astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves and seed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica), and chewed or smoked in the East as a means of intoxication. See Hasheesh.  BHEESTY; BHEESTIE Bhees"ty, Bhees"tie, n. [Written also bhistee, bhisti, etc.] [Per. bihishti lit., heavenly.]  A water carrier, as to a household or a regiment. [India]  BHISTEE; BHISTI Bhis"tee, Bhis"ti, n.  Same as Bheesty. [India] 

BHUNDER:  An Indian monkey (Macacus Rhesus), protected by the Hindoos as sacred. See Rhesus.  BI; BI- Bi*. Etym: [L. bis twice, which in composition drops the -s, akin to E. two. See Bis-, Two, and cf. Di-, Dis-.]  1. In most branches of science bi- in composition denotes two, twice, or doubly; as, bidentate, two-toothed; biternate, doubly ternate, etc.  2. (Chem.)  In the composition of chemical names bi- denotes two atoms, parts, or equivalents of that constituent to the name of which it is prefixed, to one of the other component, or that such constituent is present in double the ordinary proportion; as, bichromate, bisulphide. Be- and di- are often used interchangeably. 

BIACID:  Having two hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by negative atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of bases. See Diacid. 

BIACUMINATE:  Having points in two directions. 

BIANGULAR:  Having two angles or corners.  BIANGULATE; BIANGULATED Bi*an"gu*late, Bi*an"gu*la`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + angulate, angulated.]  Biangular. 

BIANGULOUS:  Biangular. [R.] 

BIANNUAL:  Occurring twice a year; half-yearly; semiannual. 

BIANTHERIFEROUS:  Having two anthers. 

BIARTICULATE:  Having, or consisting of, tow joints. 

BIAS:  In a slanting manner; crosswise; obliquely; diagonally; as, to cut cloth bias. 

BIAS:  To incline to one side; to give a particular direction to; to influence; to prejudice; to prepossess. Me it had not biased in the one direction, nor should it have biased any just critic in the counter direction. De. Quincey. 

BIAURICULATE:  Having two auricles, as the heart of mammals, birds, and reptiles.  2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Having two earlike projections at its base, as a leaf.  BIAXAL; BIAXIAL Bi*ax"al, Bi*ax"i*al, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + axal, axial.] (Opt.)  Having two axes; as, biaxial polarization. Brewster.  -- Bi*ax"i*al*ly, adv. 

BIB:  An arctic fish (Gadus luscus), allied to the cod; -- called also pout and whiting pout.  3. A bibcock.  BIB; BIBBE Bib, Bibbe, v. t. Etym: [L. bibere. See Beverage, and cf. Imbibe.]  To drink; to tipple. [Obs.] This miller hath . . . bibbed ale. Chaucer. 

BIB:  To drink; to sip; to tipple. He was constantly bibbing. Locke. 

BIBACIOUS:  Addicted to drinking. 

BIBACITY:  The practice or habit of drinking too much; tippling. Blount. 

BIBASIC:  Having to hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by positive or basic atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of acids. See Dibasic. 

BIBB:  A bibcock. See Bib, n., 3. 

BIBBER:  One given to drinking alcoholic beverages too freely; a tippler; -- chiefly used in composition; as, winebibber.  BIBBLE-BABBLE Bib"ble-bab"ble, n. Etym: [A reduplication of babble.]  Idle talk; babble. Shak. 

BIBBS:  Pieces of timber bolted to certain parts of a mast tp support the trestletrees. 

BIBCOCK:  A cock or faucet having a bent down nozzle. Knight. 

BIBELOT:  A small decorative object without practical utility.  Her pictures, her furniture, and her bibelots. M. Crawford. 

BIBIRINE:  See Bebeerine. 

BIBITORY:  Of or pertaining to drinking or tippling. 

BIBLE:  A book with an authoritative exposition of some topic, respected by many experts on the field. Bible Society, an association for securing the multiplication and wide distribution of the Bible.  -- Douay Bible. See Douay Bible.  -- Geneva Bible. See under Geneva. 

BIBLER:  A great drinker; a tippler. [Written also bibbler and bibbeler.] 

BIBLICAL:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the Bible; as, biblical learning; biblical authority. 

BIBLICALITY:  The quality of being biblical; a biblical subject. [R.] 

BIBLICALLY:  According to the Bible. 

BIBLICISM:  Learning or literature relating to the Bible. [R.] 

BIBLICIST:  One skilled in the knowledge of the Bible; a demonstrator of religious truth by the Scriptures. 

BIBLIOGRAPH:  Bibliographer. 

BIBLIOGRAPHER:  One who writes, or is versed in, bibliography.  BIBLIOGRAPHIC; BIBLIOGRAPHICAL Bib`li*o*graph"ic, Bib`li*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. bibliographique.]  Pertaining to bibliography, or the history of books.  -- Bib`li*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY:  A history or description of books and manuscripts, with notices of the different editions, the times when they were printed, etc.  BIBLIOLATER; BIBLIOLATRIST Bib`li*ol"a*ter, Bib`li*ol"a*trist, n. Etym: [See. Bibliolatry.]  A worshiper of books; especially, a worshiper of the Bible; a believer in its verbal inspiration. De Quincey. 

BIBLIOLATRY:  Book worship, esp. of the Bible; -- applied by Roman Catholic divine Coleridge. F. W. Newman. 

BIBLIOLOGICAL:  Relating to bibliology. 

BIBLIOMANCY:  A kind of divination, performed by selecting passages of Scripture at hazard, and drawing from them indications concerning future events. 

BIBLIOMANIA:  A mania for acquiring books. 

BIBLIOMANIAC:  One who has a mania for books.  -- a.  Relating to a bibliomaniac. 

BIBLIOMANIACAL:  Pertaining to a passion for books; relating to a bibliomaniac. 

BIBLIOPEGIC:  Relating to the binding of books. [R.] 

BIBLIOPEGIST:  A bookbinder. 

BIBLIOPEGISTIC:  Pertaining to the art of binding books. [R.] Dibdin. 

BIBLIOPEGY:  The art of binding books. [R.] 

BIBLIOPHILE:  A lover of books. 

BIBLIOPHILISM:  Love of books. 

BIBLIOPHILIST:  A lover of books. 

BIBLIOPHOBIA:  A dread of books. [R.] 

BIBLIOPOLE:  One who sells books.  BIBLIOPOLIC; BIBLIOPOLAR Bib`li*o*pol"ic, Bib`li*op"o*lar, a. Etym: [See Bibliopole.]  Of or pertaining to the sale of books. "Bibliopolic difficulties." Carlyle. 

BIBLIOPOLISM:  The trade or business of selling books. 

BIBLIOPOLIST:  Same as Bibliopole. 

BIBLIOPOLISTIC:  Of or pertaining to bibliopolism. Dibdin.  BIBLIOTAPH; BIBLIOTAPHIST Bib"li*o*taph, Bib`li*ot"a*phist, n. Etym: [Gr. book + a burial.]  One who hides away books, as in a tomb. [R.] Crabb. 

BIBLIOTHEC:  A librarian. 

BIBLIOTHECA:  A library. 

BIBLIOTHECAL:  Belonging to a library. Byrom. 

BIBLIOTHECARY:  A librarian. [Obs.] Evelin. 

BIBLIOTHEKE:  A library. [Obs.] Bale. 

BIBRACTEATE:  Furnished with, or having, two bracts. 

BIBULOUSLY:  In a bibulous manner; with profuse imbibition or absorption. De Quincey. 

BICALCARATE:  Having two spurs, as the wing or leg of a bird.  BICALLOSE; BICALLOUS Bi*cal"lose, Bi*cal"lous, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + callose, callous.] (Bot.)  Having two callosities or hard spots. Gray. 

BICAMERAL:  Consisting of, or including, two chambers, or legislative branches. Bentham. 

BICAPSULAR:  Having two capsules; as, a bicapsular pericarp. 

BICARBONATE:  A carbonate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the normal carbonates; an acid carbonate; -- sometimes called supercarbonate.  BICARBURETED; BICARBURETTED Bi*car"bu*ret`ed or -ret`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + carbureted.] (Chem.)  Containing two atoms or equivalents of carbon in the molecule. [Obs. or R.] 

BICARINATE:  Having two keel-like projections, as the upper palea of grasses. 

BICAUDAL:  Having, or terminating in, two tails. 

BICAUDATE:  Two-tailed; bicaudal. 

BICCHED:  Pecked; pitted; notched. [Obs.] Chaucer. Bicched bones, pecked, or notched, bones; dice.  BICE; BISE Bice, Bise, n. Etym: [F. bis, akin to It. bigio light gray, tawny.] (Paint.)  A pale blue pigment, prepared from the native blue carbonate of copper, or from smalt; -- called also blue bice. Green bice is prepared from the blue, by adding yellow orpiment, or by grinding down the green carbonate of copper. Cooley. Brande & C. 

BICENTENARY:  Of or pertaining to two hundred, esp. to two hundred years; as, a bicentenary celebration.  -- n.  The two hundredth anniversary, or its celebration. 

BICENTENNIAL:  The two hundredth year or anniversary, or its celebration. 

BICEPHALOUS:  Having two heads. 

BICEPS:  A muscle having two heads or origins; -- applied particularly to a flexor in the arm, and to another in the thigh. 

BICHIR:  A remarkable ganoid fish (Polypterus bichir) found in the Nile and other African rivers. See Brachioganoidei. 

BICHLORIDE:  A compound consisting of two atoms of chlorine with one or more atoms of another element; -- called also dichloride. Bichloride of mercury, mercuric chloride; -- sometimes called corrosive sublimate. 

BICHO:  See Jigger. 

BICHROMATE:  A salt containing two parts of chromic acid to one of the other ingredients; as, potassium bichromate; -- called also dichromate. 

BICHROMATIZE:  To combine or treat with a bichromate, esp. with bichromate of potassium; as, bichromatized gelatine. 

BICIPITAL:  Dividing into two parts at one extremity; having two heads or two supports; as, a bicipital tree. 

BICIPITOUS:  Having two heads; bicipital. "Bicipitous serpents." Sir T. Browne. 

BICKER:  A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub. [Prov. Eng.] 

BICKERER:  One who bickers. 

BICKERMENT:  Contention. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BICKERN:  An anvil ending in a beak or point (orig. in two beaks); also, the beak or horn itself.  BICKFORD FUSE; BICKFORD FUZE; BICKFORD MATCH Bick"ford fuse, Bick"ford fuze, Bick"ford match.  A fuse used in blasting, consisting of a long cylinder of explosive material inclosed in a varnished wrapping of rope or hose. It burns from 2 to 4 feet a minute. 

BICOLLIGATE:  Having the anterior toes connected by a basal web.  BICOLOR; BICOLORED Bi"col`or, Bi"col`ored, a. Etym: [L. bicolor; bis twice + color color.]  Of two colors. 

BICONCAVE:  Concave on both sides; as, biconcave vertebræ. 

BICONJUGATE:  Twice paired, as when a petiole forks twice. Gray. 

BICONVEX:  Convex on both sides; as, a biconvex lens.  BICORN; BICORNED; BICORNOUS Bi"corn, Bi"corned, Bi*cor"nous, a. Etym: [L. bicornis; bis twice + cornu horn: cf. F. bicorne. Cf. Bickern.]  Having two horns; two-horned; crescentlike. 

BICORPORAL:  Having two bodies. 

BICORPORATE:  Double-bodied, as a lion having one head and two bodies. 

BICOSTATE:  Having two principal ribs running longitudinally, as a leaf. 

BICRENATE:  Twice crenated, as in the case of leaves whose crenatures are themselves crenate. 

BICRESCENTIC:  Having the form of a double crescent. 

BICRURAL:  Having two legs. Hooker.  BICUSPID; BICUSPIDATE Bi*cus"pid, Bi*cus"pid*ate, a. Etym: [See pref. Bi-, and Cuspidate.]  Having two points or prominences; ending in two points; -- said of teeth, leaves, fruit, etc. 

BICUSPID:  One of the two double-pointed teeth which intervene between the canines (cuspids) and the molars, on each side of each jaw. See Tooth, n. 

BICYANIDE:  See Dicyanide. 

BICYCLE:  A light vehicle having two wheels one behind the other. It has a saddle seat and is propelled by the rider's feet acting on cranks or levers. 

BICYCLER:  One who rides a bicycle. 

BICYCLIC:  Relating to bicycles. 

BICYCLING:  The use of a bicycle; the act or practice of riding a bicycle. 

BICYCLISM:  The art of riding a bicycle. 

BICYCLIST:  A bicycler. 

BICYCULAR:  Relating to bicycling. 

BID:  imp. & p. p. of Bid. 

BID:  An offer of a price, especially at auctions; a statement of a sum which one will give for something to be received, or will take for something to be done or furnished; that which is offered. 

BIDALE:  An invitation of friends to drink ale at some poor man's house, and there to contribute in charity for his relief. [Prov. Eng.]  BIDARKEE; BIDARKA Bi*dar"kee, Bi*dar"ka, n. [Russ. baidarka, dim. Cf. Baidar.]  A portable boat made of skins stretched on a frame. [Alaska] The Century. 

BIDDABLE:  Obedient; docile. [Scot.] 

BIDDEN:  of Bid. 

BIDDER:  One who bids or offers a price. Burke.  BIDDERY WARE Bid"der*y ware`. Etym: [From Beder or Bidar a town in India.]  A kind of metallic ware made in India. The material is a composition of zinc, tin, and lead, in which ornaments of gold and silver are inlaid or damascened. [Spelt also bidry, bidree, bedery, beder.] 

BIDDING:  The prayer for the souls of benefactors, said before the sermon.  2. (Angl. Ch.)  The prayer before the sermon, with petitions for various specified classes of persons. 

BIDDY:  A name used in calling a hen or chicken. Shak. 

BIDDY:  An Irish serving woman or girl. [Colloq.] 

BIDENT:  An instrument or weapon with two prongs. 

BIDENTAL:  Having two teeth. Swift. 

BIDENTATE:  Having two teeth or two toothlike processes; two-toothed. 

BIDIGITATE:  Having two fingers or fingerlike projections. 

BIDING:  Residence; habitation. Rowe.  BIELA'S COMET Bie"la's com"et. (Astron.)  A periodic coment, discovered by Biela in 1826, which revolves around the sun in 6.6 years. The November meteors (Andromedes or Bielids) move in its orbit, and may be fragments of the comet. 

BIELD:  A shelter. Same as Beild. [Scot.] 

BIELD:  To shelter. [Scot.] 

BIELID:  See Andromede. 

BIENNIAL:  Continuing for two years, and then perishing, as plants which form roots and leaves the first year, and produce fruit the second. 

BIENNIAL:  A plant which exists or lasts for two years. 

BIENNIALLY:  Once in two years. 

BIER:  A count of forty threads in the warp or chain of woolen cloth. Knight. 

BIERBALK:  A church road (e. g., a path across fields) for funerals. [Obs.] Homilies.  BIESTINGS; BEESTINGS Biest"ings, Beest"ings, n. pl. Etym: [OE. bestynge, AS. b, fr. b, beost; akin to D. biest, OHG. biost, G. biest; of unknown origin.]  The first milk given by a cow after calving. B. Jonson. The thick and curdy milk . . . commonly called biestings. Newton. (1574). 

BIFACIAL:  Having the opposite surfaces alike. 

BIFARIOUS:  Pointing two ways, as leaves that grow only on opposite sides of a branch; in two vertical rows. 

BIFARIOUSLY:  In a bifarious manner. 

BIFEROUS:  Bearing fruit twice a year. 

BIFID:  Cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening with a cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins. 

BIFIDATE:  See Bifid. 

BIFILAR:  Two-threaded; involving the use of two threads; as, bifilar suspension; a bifilar balance. Bifilar micrometer (often called a bifilar), an instrument form measuring minute distances or angles by means of two very minute threads (usually spider lines), one of which, at least, is movable; -- more commonly called a filar micrometer. 

BIFLABELLATE:  Flabellate on both sides. 

BIFLAGELLATE:  Having two long, narrow, whiplike appendages.  BIFLORATE; BIFLOROUS Bi*flo"rate, Bi*flo"rous, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + flos, floris, flower.] (Bot.)  Bearing two flowers; two-flowered. 

BIFOCAL:  Having two foci, as some spectacle lenses. 

BIFOLD:  Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc. Shak. 

BIFOLIATE:  Having two leaves; two-leaved. 

BIFOLIOLATE:  Having two leaflets, as some compound leaves. 

BIFORATE:  Having two perforations. 

BIFORINE:  An oval sac or cell, found in the leaves of certain plants of the order Araceæ. It has an opening at each end through which raphides, generated inside, are discharged. 

BIFORKED:  Bifurcate. 

BIFORM:  Having two forms, bodies, or shapes. Croxall. 

BIFORMED:  Having two forms. Johnson. 

BIFORMITY:  A double form. 

BIFORN:  Before. [Obs.] 

BIFOROUS:  See Biforate. 

BIFRONTED:  Having two fronts. "Bifronted Janus." Massinger.  BIFURCATE; BIFURCATED Bi*fur"cate, Bi*fur"ca*ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + furcate.]  Two-pronged; forked. 

BIFURCATE:  To divide into two branches. 

BIFURCATION:  A forking, or division into two branches. 

BIFURCOUS:  See Bifurcate, a. [R.] Coles. 

BIG:  Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind. "Bear interchanges in local use, now with barley, now with bigg." New English Dict.  BIG; BIGG Big, Bigg, v. t. Etym: [OE. biggen, fr. Icel. byggja to inhabit, to build, b (neut.) to dwell (active) to make ready. See Boor, and Bound.]  To build. [Scot. & North of Eng. Dial.] Sir W. Scott. 

BIGA:  A two-horse chariot. 

BIGAM:  A bigamist. [Obs.] 

BIGAMIST:  One who is guilty of bigamy. Ayliffe. 

BIGAMOUS:  Guilty of bigamy; involving bigamy; as, a bigamous marriage. 

BIGAMY:  The offense of marrying one person when already legally married to another. Wharton.  Note: It is not strictly correct to call this offense bigamy: it more properly denominated polygamy, i. e., having a plurality of wives or husbands at once, and in several statutes in the United States the offense is classed under the head of polygamy. In the canon law bigamy was the marrying of two virgins successively, or one after the death of the other, or once marrying a widow. This disqualified a man for orders, and for holding ecclesiastical offices. Shakespeare uses the word in the latter sense. Blackstone. Bouvier. Base declension and loathed bigamy. Shak.  BIGARREAU; BIGAROON Big`ar*reau", Big`a*roon", n. Etym: [F. bigarreau, fr. bigarré variegated.] (Bot.)  The large white-heart cherry.  BIG-BELLIED Big"-bel`lied, a.  Having a great belly; as, a big-bellied man or flagon; advanced in pregnancy.  BIG BEND STATE Big Bend State.  Tennessee; -- a nickname. 

BIGEMINATE:  Having a forked petiole, and a pair of leaflets at the end of each division; biconjugate; twice paired; -- said of a decompound leaf. 

BIGENTIAL:  Including two tribes or races of men. 

BIGEYE:  A fish of the genus Priacanthus, remarkable for the large size of the eye. 

BIGG:  See Big, n. & v. 

BIGGEN:  To make or become big; to enlarge. [Obs. or Dial.] Steele. 

BIGGER:  , compar. of Big. 

BIGGEST:  , superl. of Big. 

BIGGIN:  A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head. An old woman's biggin for a nightcap. Massinger. 

BIGGIN:  A coffeepot with a strainer or perforated metallic vessel for holding the ground coffee, through which boiling water is poured; -- so called from Mr. Biggin, the inventor.  BIGGIN; BIGGING Big"gin, Big"ging, n. Etym: [OE. bigging. See Big, Bigg, v. t.]  A building. [Obs.]  BIGGON; BIGGONNET Big"gon, Big"gon*net, n. Etym: [F. béguin and OF. beguinet, dim of béguin. See Biggin a cap.]  A cap or hood with pieces covering the ears. 

BIGHA:  A measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre to an acre. 

BIGHORN:  The Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis or Caprovis montana). 

BIGHT:  A bend in a coast forming an open bay; as, the Bight of Benin.  3. (Naut.)  The double part of a rope when folded, in distinction from the ends; that is, a round, bend, or coil not including the ends; a loop. 

BIGLANDULAR:  Having two glands, as a plant. 

BIGLY:  In a tumid, swelling, blustering manner; haughtily; violently. He brawleth bigly. Robynson (More's Utopia. ) 

BIGNESS:  The state or quality of being big; largeness; size; bulk. 

BIGNONIA:  A large genus of American, mostly tropical, climbing shrubs, having compound leaves and showy somewhat tubular flowers. B. capreolata is the cross vine of the Southern United States. The trumpet creeper was formerly considered to be of this genus. 

BIGNONIACEOUS:  Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the trumpet flower is an example. 

BIGOT:  Bigoted. [Obs.] In a country more bigot than ours. Dryden. 

BIGOTED:  Obstinately and blindly attached to some creed, opinion practice, or ritual; unreasonably devoted to a system or party, and illiberal toward the opinions of others. "Bigoted to strife." Byron.  Syn.  -- Prejudiced; intolerant; narrow-minded. 

BIGOTEDLY:  In the manner of a bigot. 

BIGWIG:  A person of consequence; as, the bigwigs of society. [Jocose] In our youth we have heard him spoken of by the bigwigs with extreme condescension. Dickens.  BIG-WIGGED Big"-wigged`, a.  characterized by pomposity of manner. [Eng.] 

BIHYDROGURET:  A compound of two atoms of hydrogen with some other substance. [Obs.] 

BIJOU:  A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and of elegant workmanship. 

BIJOUTRY:  Small articles of virtu, as jewelry, trinkets, etc. 

BIJUGATE:  Having two pairs, as of leaflets. 

BIJUGOUS:  Bijugate. 

BIKE:  A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

BIKH:  The East Indian name of a virulent poison extracted from Aconitum ferox or other species of aconite: also, the plant itself. 

BILABIATE:  Having two lips, as the corols of certain flowers. 

BILACINIATE:  Doubly fringed. 

BILALO:  A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay of Manila.  BILAMELLATE; BILAMELLATED Bi*lam"el*late, Bi*lam"el*la`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + lamellate.] (Bot.)  Formed of two plates, as the stigma of the Mimulus; also, having two elevated ridges, as in the lip of certain flowers.  BILAMINAR; BILAMINATE Bi*lam"i*nar, Bi*lam"i*nate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + laminar, laminate.]  Formed of, or having, two laminæ, or thin plates. 

BILAND:  A byland. [Obs.] Holland. 

BILANDER:  A small two-masted merchant vessel, fitted only for coasting, or for use in canals, as in Holland. Why choose we, then, like bilanders to creep Along the coast, and land in view to keep Dryden. 

BILATERAL:  Of or pertaining to the two sides of a central area or organ, or of a central axis; as, bilateral symmetry in animals, where there is a similarity of parts on the right and left sides of the body. 

BILATERALITY:  State of being bilateral. 

BILBERRY:  The European whortleberry (Vaccinium myrtillus); also, its edible bluish black fruit. There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry. Shak.  2. (Bot.) Any similar plant or its fruit; esp., in America, the species Vaccinium myrtilloides, V. cæspitosum and V. uliginosum. 

BILBO:  A long bar or bolt of iron with sliding shackles, and a lock at the end, to confine the feet of prisoners or offenders, esp. on board of ships. Methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Shak. 

BILBOQUET:  The toy called cup and ball. 

BILCOCK:  The European water rail. 

BILDSTEIN:  Same as Agalmatolite. 

BILE:  A yellow, or greenish, viscid fluid, usually alkaline in reaction, secreted by the liver. It passes into the intestines, where it aids in the digestive process. Its characteristic constituents are the bile salts, and coloring matters.  2. Bitterness of feeling; choler; anger; ill humor; as, to stir one's bile. Prescott.  Note: The ancients considered the bile to be the "humor" which caused irascibility. 

BILE:  A boil. [Obs. or Archaic] 

BILECTION:  That portion of a group of moldings which projects beyond the general surface of a panel; a bolection. 

BILESTONE:  A gallstone, or biliary calculus. See Biliary. E. Darwin. 

BILGE:  That part of a ship's hull or bottom which is broadest and most nearly flat, and on which she would rest if aground.  3. Bilge water. Bilge free (Naut.), stowed in such a way that the bilge is clear of everything; -- said of a cask.  -- Bilge pump, a pump to draw the bilge water from the gold of a ship.  -- Bilge water (Naut.), water which collects in the bilge or bottom of a ship or other vessel. It is often allowed to remain till it becomes very offensive.  -- Bilge ways, the timbers which support the cradle of a ship upon the ways, and which slide upon the launching ways in launching the vessel. 

BILGE:  To suffer a fracture in the bilge; to spring a leak by a fracture in the bilge.  2. To bulge. 

BILGE:  To fracture the bilge of, or stave in the bottom of (a ship or other vessel).  2. To cause to bulge. 

BILGY:  Having the smell of bilge water. 

BILIARY:  Relating or belonging to bile; conveying bile; as, biliary acids; biliary ducts. Biliary calculus (Med.), a gallstone, or a concretion formed in the gall bladder or its duct. 

BILIATION:  The production and excretion of bile. 

BILIFEROUS:  Generating bile. 

BILIFUSCIN:  A brownish green pigment found in human gallstones and in old bile. It is a derivative of bilirubin.  BILIMBI; BILIMBING Bi*lim"bi, Bi*lim"bing, n. Etym: [Malay.]  The berries of two East Indian species of Averrhoa, of the Oxalideæ or Sorrel family. They are very acid, and highly esteemed when preserved or pickled. The juice is used as a remedy for skin diseases. [Written also blimbi and blimbing.] 

BILIMENT:  A woman's ornament; habiliment. [Obs.] 

BILIN:  A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtained from bile by the action of alcohol and ether. It is composed of a mixture of the sodium salts of the bile acids. 

BILINEAR:  Of, pertaining to, or included by, two lines; as, bilinear coördinates. 

BILINGUAL:  Containing, or consisting of, two languages; expressed in two languages; as, a bilingual inscription; a bilingual dictionary.  -- Bi*lin"gual*ly, adv. 

BILINGUALISM:  Quality of being bilingual. The bilingualism of King's English. Earle. 

BILINGUAR:  See Bilingual. 

BILINGUIST:  One versed in two languages. 

BILINGUOUS:  Having two tongues, or speaking two languages. [Obs.] 

BILIOUSNESS:  The state of being bilious. 

BILIPRASIN:  A dark green pigment found in small quantity in human gallstones. 

BILIRUBIN:  A reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in that from carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment. 

BILITERAL:  Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskrit verb. Sir W. Jones.  -- n.  A word, syllable, or root, consisting of two letters. 

BILITERALISM:  The property or state of being biliteral. 

BILIVERDIN:  A green pigment present in the bile, formed from bilirubin by oxidation. 

BILK:  To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, by nonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slip to; as, to bilk a creditor. Thackeray. 

BILL:  A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal. Milton. 

BILL:  The bell, or boom, of the bittern The bittern's hollow bill was heard. Wordsworth. 

BILL:  The extremity of the arm of an anchor; the point of or beyond the fluke. 

BILL:  To work upon ( as to dig, hoe, hack, or chop anything) with a bill. 

BILL:  A declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the complainant has suffered from the defendant, or a fault committed by some person against a law.  2. A writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a future day or on demand, with or without interest, as may be stated in the document. [Eng.]  Note: In the United States, it is usually called a note, a note of hand, or a promissory note.  3. A form or draft of a law, presented to a legislature for enactment; a proposed or projected law.  4. A paper, written or printed, and posted up or given away, to advertise something, as a lecture, a play, or the sale of goods; a placard; a poster; a handbill. She put up the bill in her parlor window. Dickens.  5. An account of goods sold, services rendered, or work done, with the price or charge; a statement of a creditor's claim, in gross or by items; as, a grocer's bill.  6. Any paper, containing a statement of particulars; as, a bill of charges or expenditures; a weekly bill of mortality; a bill of fare, etc. Bill of adventure. See under Adventure.  -- Bill of costs, a statement of the items which form the total amount of the costs of a party to a suit or action.  -- Bill of credit. (a) Within the constitution of the United States, a paper issued by a State, on the mere faith and credit of the State, and designed to circulate as money. No State shall "emit bills of credit." U. S. Const. Peters. Wharton. Bouvier (b) Among merchants, a letter sent by an agent or other person to a merchant, desiring him to give credit to the bearer for goods or money.  -- Bill of divorce, in the Jewish law, a writing given by the husband to the wife, by which the marriage relation was dissolved. Jer. iii. 8.  -- Bill of entry, a written account of goods entered at the customhouse, whether imported or intended for exportation.  -- Bill of exceptions. See under Exception.  -- Bill of exchange (Com.), a written order or request from one person or house to another, desiring the latter to pay to some person designated a certain sum of money therein generally is, and, to be negotiable, must be, made payable to order or to bearer. So also the order generally expresses a specified time of payment, and that it is drawn for value. The person who draws the bil is called the drawer, the person on whom it is drawn is, before acceptance, called the drawee, -- after acceptance, the acceptor; the person to whom the money is directed to be paid is called the payee. The person making the order may himself be the payee. The bill itself is frequently called a draft. See Exchange. Chitty.  -- Bill of fare, a written or printed enumeration of the dishes served at a public table, or of the dishes (with prices annexed) which may be ordered at a restaurant, etc.  -- Bill of health, a certificate from the proper authorities as to the state of health of a ship's company at the time of her leaving port.  -- Bill of indictment, a written accusation lawfully presented to a grand jury. If the jury consider the evidence sufficient to support the accusation, they indorse it "A true bill," or "Not found," or "Ignoramus", or "Ignored." -- Bill of lading, a written account of goods shipped by any person, signed by the agent of the owner of the vessel, or by its master, acknowledging the receipt of the goods, and promising to deliver them safe at the place directed, dangers of the sea excepted. It is usual for the master to sign two, three, or four copies of the bill; one of which he keeps in possession, one is kept by the shipper, and one is sent to the consignee of the goods.  -- Bill of mortality, an official statement of the number of deaths in a place or district within a given time; also, a district required to be covered by such statement; as, a place within the bills of mortality of London.  -- Bill of pains and penalties, a special act of a legislature which inflicts a punishment less than death upon persons supposed to be guilty of treason or felony, without any conviction in the ordinary course of judicial proceedings. Bouvier. Wharton.  -- Bill of parcels, an account given by the seller to the buyer of the several articles purchased, with the price of each.  -- Bill of particulars (Law), a detailed statement of the items of a plaintiff's demand in an action, or of the defendant's set-off.  -- Bill of rights, a summary of rights and privileges claimed by a people. Such was the declaration presented by the Lords and Commons of England to the Prince and Princess of Orange in 1688, and enacted in Parliament after they became king and queen. In America, a bill or declaration of rights is prefixed to most of the constitutions of the several States.  -- Bill of sale, a formal instrument for the conveyance or transfer of goods and chattels.  -- Bill of sight, a form of entry at the customhouse, by which goods, respecting which the importer is not possessed of full information, may be provisionally landed for examination.  -- Bill of store, a license granted at the customhouse to merchants, to carry such stores and provisions as are necessary for a voyage, custom free. Wharton.  -- Bills payable (pl.), the outstanding unpaid notes or acceptances made and issued by an individual or firm.  -- Bills receivable (pl.), the unpaid promissory notes or acceptances held by an individual or firm. McElrath.  -- A true bill, a bill of indictment sanctioned by a grand jury. 

BILLABONG:  In Australia, a blind channel leading out from a river; -- sometimes called an anabranch. This is the sense of the word as used in the Public Works Department; but the term has also been locally applied to mere back-waters forming stagnant pools and to certain water channels arising from a source. 

BILLAGE:  and v. t. & i. Same as Bilge. 

BILLARD:  An English fish, allied to the cod; the coalfish. [Written also billet and billit.]  BILLBEETLE; BILLBUG Bill`bee"tle, or Bill"bug`, n. (Zoöl.)  A weevil or curculio of various species, as the corn weevil. See Curculio. 

BILLBOARD:  A piece of thick plank, armed with iron plates, and fixed on the bow or fore channels of a vessel, for the bill or fluke of the anchor to rest on. Totten.  2. A flat surface, as of a panel or of a fence, on which bills are posted; a bulletin board.  BILL BOOK Bill" book`. (Com.)  A book in which a person keeps an account of his notes, bills, bills of exchange, etc., thus showing all that he issues and receives.  BILL BROKER Bill" bro`ker.  One who negotiates the discount of bills. 

BILLED:  Furnished with, or having, a bill, as a bird; -- used in composition; as, broad-billed. 

BILLET:  To direct, by a ticket or note, where to lodge. Hence: To quarter, or place in lodgings, as soldiers in private houses. Billeted in so antiquated a mansion. W. Irving. 

BILLET:  A short bar of metal, as of gold or iron.  3. (Arch.)  An ornament in Norman work, resembling a billet of wood either square or round.  4. (Saddlery) (a) A strap which enters a buckle. (b) A loop which receives the end of a buckled strap. Knight.  5. (Her.)  A bearing in the form of an oblong rectangle.  BILLET-DOUX Bil`let-doux", n.; pl. Billets-doux. Etym: [F. billet note + doux sweet, L. dulcis.]  A love letter or note. A lover chanting out a billet-doux. Spectator. 

BILLETHEAD:  A round piece of timber at the bow or stern of a whaleboat, around which the harpoon lone is run out when the whale darts off. 

BILLFISH:  A name applied to several distinct fishes: (a) The garfish (Tylosurus, or Belone, longirostris) and allied species. (b) The saury, a slender fish of the Atlantic coast (Scomberesox saurus). (c) The Tetrapturus albidus, a large oceanic species related to the swordfish; the spearfish. (d) The American fresh-water garpike (Lepidosteus osseus). 

BILLHEAD:  A printed form, used by merchants in making out bills or rendering accounts.  BILL HOLDER Bill" hold`er.  1. A person who holds a bill or acceptance.  2. A device by means of which bills, etc., are held. 

BILLHOOK:  A thick, heavy knife with a hooked point, used in pruning hedges, etc. When it has a short handle, it is sometimes called a hand bill; when the handle is long, a hedge bill or scimiter. 

BILLIARD:  Of or pertaining to the game of billiards. "Smooth as is a billiard ball." B. Jonson. 

BILLIARDS:  A game played with ivory balls o a cloth-covered, rectangular table, bounded by elastic cushions. The player seeks to impel his ball with his cue so that it shall either strike (carom upon) two other balls, or drive another ball into one of the pockets with which the table sometimes is furnished. 

BILLING:  Caressing; kissing. 

BILLION:  According to the French and American method of numeration, a thousand millions, or 1,000,000,000; according to the English method, a million millions, or 1,000,000,000,000. See Numeration. 

BILLMAN:  One who uses, or is armed with, a bill or hooked ax. "A billman of the guard." Savile. 

BILLON:  An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copper or other base metal, used in coinage. 

BILLOT:  Bullion in the bar or mass. 

BILLOW:  To surge; to rise and roll in waves or surges; to undulate. "The billowing snow." Prior. 

BILLOWY:  Of or pertaining to billows; swelling or swollen into large waves; full of billows or surges; resembling billows. And whitening down the many-tinctured stream, Descends the billowy foam. Thomson.  BILLPOSTER; BILLSTICKER Bill"post`er, Bill"stick"er, n.  One whose occupation is to post handbills or posters in public places. 

BILLY:  A slubbing or roving machine. 

BILLYBOY:  A flat-bottomed river barge or coasting vessel. [Eng.]  BILLYCOCK; BILLYCOCK HAT Bil"ly*cock, n., or Bil"ly*cock hat`. [Perh. from bully + cock; that is, cocked like the hats of the bullies.]  A round, low-crowned felt hat; a wideawake. "The undignified billycocks and pantaloons of the West."  B. H. Chamberlain.  Little acquiesced, and Ransome disguised him in a beard, and a loose set of clothes, and a billicock hat. Charles Reade.  BILLY GOAT Bil"ly goat`.  A male goat. [Colloq.] 

BILOBATE:  Divided into two lobes or segments. 

BILOBED:  Bilobate. 

BILOCATION:  Double location; the state or power of being in two places at the same instant; -- a miraculous power attributed to some of the saints. Tylor. 

BILOCULAR:  Divided into two cells or compartments; as, a bilocular pericarp. Gray. 

BILSTED:  See Sweet gum. 

BILTONG:  Lean meat cut into strips and sun-dried. H. R. Haggard. 

BIMACULATE:  Having, or marked with, two spots. 

BIMANA:  Animals having two hands; -- a term applied by Cuvier to man as a special order of Mammalia. 

BIMANOUS:  Having two hands; two-handed. 

BIMARGINATE:  Having a double margin, as certain shells. 

BIMASTISM:  The condition of having two mammæ or teats. 

BIMEDIAL:  Applied to a line which is the sum of two lines commensurable only in power (as the side and diagonal of a square). 

BIMEMBRAL:  Having two members; as, a bimembral sentence. J. W. Gibbs. 

BIMENSAL:  See Bimonthly, a. [Obs. or R.] 

BIMESTRIAL:  Continuing two months. [R.] 

BIMETALLIC:  Of or relating to, or using, a double metallic standard (as gold and silver) for a system of coins or currency. 

BIMETALLISM:  The legalized use of two metals (as gold and silver) in the currency of a country, at a fixed relative value; -- in opposition to monometallism.  Note: The words bimétallisme and monométallisme are due to M. Cernuschi [1869]. Littré. 

BIMETALLIST:  An advocate of bimetallism. 

BIMOLECULAR:  Pertaining to, or formed from, two molecules; as, a bimolecular reaction (a reaction between two molecules). 

BIMONTHLY:  Occurring, done, or coming, once in two months; as, bimonthly visits; bimonthly publications.  -- n.  A bimonthly publication. 

BIMONTHLY:  Once in two months. 

BIMUSCULAR:  Having two adductor muscles, as a bivalve mollusk. 

BIN:  A box, frame, crib, or inclosed place, used as a receptacle for any commodity; as, a corn bin; a wine bin; a coal bin. 

BIN:  To put into a bin; as, to bin wine. 

BIN:  An old form of Be and Been. [Obs.]  BIN; BIN- Bin*.  A euphonic form of the prefix Bi-. 

BINAL:  Twofold; double. [R.] "Binal revenge, all this." Ford. 

BINARSENIATE:  A salt having two equivalents of arsenic acid to one of the base. Graham. 

BINARY:  Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterized by two (things). Binary arithmetic, that in which numbers are expressed according to the binary scale, or in which two figures only, 0 and 1, are used, in lieu of ten; the cipher multiplying everything by two, as in common arithmetic by ten. Thus, 1 is one; 10 is two; 11 is three; 100 is four, etc. Davies & Peck.  -- Binary compound (Chem.), a compound of two elements, or of an element and a compound performing the function of an element, or of two compounds performing the function of elements.  -- Binary logarithms, a system of logarithms devised by Euler for facilitating musical calculations, in which 1 is logarithm of 2, instead of 10, as in the common logarithms, and the modulus 1.442695 instead of .43429448.  -- Binary measure (Mus.), measure divisible by two or four; common time.  -- Binary nomenclature (Nat. Hist.), nomenclature in which the names designate both genus and species.  -- Binary scale (Arith.), a uniform scale of notation whose ratio is two.  -- Binary star (Astron.), a double star whose members have a revolution round their common center of gravity.  -- Binary theory (Chem.), the theory that all chemical compounds consist of two constituents of opposite and unlike qualities. 

BINARY:  That which is constituted of two figures, things, or parts; two; duality. Fotherby. 

BINATE:  Double; growing in pairs or couples. Gray. 

BINAURAL:  Of or pertaining to, or used by, both ears. 

BINBASHI:  A major in the Turkish army. 

BIND:  Indurated clay, when much mixed with the oxide of iron. Kirwan.  4. (Mus.)  A ligature or tie for grouping notes. 

BINDERY:  A place where books, or other articles, are bound; a bookbinder's establishment. 

BINDHEIMITE:  An amorphous antimonate of lead, produced from the alteration of other ores, as from jamesonite. 

BINDING:  That binds; obligatory. Binding beam (Arch.), the main timber in double flooring.  -- Binding joist (Arch.), the secondary timber in double-framed flooring.  Syn.  -- Obligatory; restraining; restrictive; stringent; astringent; costive; styptic. 

BINDING:  The transoms, knees, beams, keelson, and other chief timbers used for connecting and strengthening the parts of a vessel. 

BINDINGLY:  So as to bind. 

BINDINGNESS:  The condition or property of being binding; obligatory quality. Coleridge.  BINDING POST Bind"ing post`. (Elec.)  A metallic post attached to electrical apparatus for convenience in making connections.  BINDING SCREW Bind"ing screw`.  A set screw used to bind parts together, esp. one for making a connection in an electrical circuit. 

BINDWEED:  A plant of the genus Convolvulus; as, greater bindweed (C. Sepium); lesser bindweed (C. arvensis); the white, the blue, the Syrian, bindweed. The black bryony, or Tamus, is called black bindweed, and the Smilax aspera, rough bindweed. The fragile bindweed bells and bryony rings. Tennyson. 

BINE:  The winding or twining stem of a hop vine or other climbing plant. 

BINERVATE:  Two-nerved; -- applied to leaves which have two longitudinal ribs or nerves.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having only two nerves, as the wings of some insects. 

BING:  A heap or pile; as, a bing of wood. "Potato bings." Burns. "A bing of corn." Surrey. [Obs. or Dial. Eng. & Scot.] 

BINIODIDE:  Same as Diiodide. 

BINK:  A bench. [North of Eng. & Scot.] 

BINNACLE:  A case or box placed near the helmsman, containing the compass of a ship, and a light to show it at night. Totten. 

BINNY:  A large species of barbel (Barbus bynni), found in the Nile, and much esteemed for food. 

BINOCLE:  A dioptric telescope, fitted with two tubes joining, so as to enable a person to view an object with both eyes at once; a double- barreled field glass or an opera glass. 

BINOCULAR:  A binocular glass, whether opera glass, telescope, or microscope. 

BINOCULARLY:  In a binocular manner. 

BINOCULATE:  Having two eyes. 

BINOMIAL:  An expression consisting of two terms connected by the sign plus (+) or minus (-); as, a+b, or 7-3. 

BINOMIAL:  Having two names; -- used of the system by which every animal and plant receives two names, the one indicating the genus, the other the species, to which it belongs. Binomial theorem (Alg.), the theorem which expresses the law of formation of any power of a binomial. 

BINOMINAL:  Of or pertaining to two names; binomial. 

BINOMINOUS:  Binominal. [Obs.] 

BINOTONOUS:  Consisting of two notes; as, a binotonous cry. 

BINOUS:  Same as Binate. 

BINOXALATE:  A salt having two equivalents of oxalic acid to one of the base; an acid oxalate. 

BINOXIDE:  Same as Dioxide. 

BINTURONG:  A small Asiatic civet of the genus Arctilis.  BINUCLEAR; BINUCLEATE Bi*nu"cle*ar, Bi*nu"cle*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + nuclear, nucleate.] (Biol.)  Having two nuclei; as, binucleate cells. 

BINUCLEOLATE:  Having two nucleoli. 

BIOBLAST:  Same as Bioplast. 

BIOCELLATE:  Having two ocelli (eyelike spots); -- said of a wing, etc. 

BIOCHEMISTRY:  The chemistry of living organisms; the chemistry of the processes incidental to, and characteristic of, life.  BIODYNAMIC; BIODYNAMICAL Bi`o*dy*nam"ic, Bi`o*dy*nam"ic*al, a. (Biol.)  Of or pertaining to biodynamics, or the doctrine of vital forces or energy. 

BIODYNAMICS:  The doctrine of vital forces or energy. 

BIOGEN:  Bioplasm.  BIOGENESIS; BIOGENY Bi`o*gen"e*sis, Bi*og"e*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. life + , , birth.] (Biol.) (a) A doctrine that the genesis or production of living organisms can take place only through the agency of living germs or parents; -- opposed to abiogenesis. (b) Life development generally. 

BIOGENETIC:  Pertaining to biogenesis. 

BIOGENIST:  A believer in the theory of biogenesis. 

BIOGEOGRAPHY:  The branch of biology which deals with the geographical distribution of animals and plants. It includes both zoögeography and phytogeography. -- Bi`o*ge`o*graph"ic (#), a. -- Bi`o*ge`o*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv. 

BIOGNOSIS:  The investigation of life. 

BIOGRAPH:  An animated picture machine for screen projection; a cinematograph.  2.  [Cf. Biography.] A biographical sketch. [Rare] 

BIOGRAPHER:  One who writes an account or history of the life of a particular person; a writer of lives, as Plutarch.  BIOGRAPHIC; BIOGRAPHICAL Bi"o*graph"ic, Bi`o*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to biography; containing biography.  -- Bi`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

BIOGRAPHIZE:  To write a history of the life of. Southey. 

BIOGRAPHY:  Of or relating to biology.  -- Bi`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

BIOLOGIST:  A student of biology; one versed in the science of biology. 

BIOLOGY:  The science of life; that branch of knowledge which treats of living matter as distinct from matter which is not living; the study of living tissue. It has to do with the origin, structure, development, function, and distribution of animals and plants. 

BIOLYSIS:  The destruction of life. 

BIOLYTIC:  Relating to the destruction of life. 

BIOMAGNETIC:  Relating to biomagnetism. 

BIOMAGNETISM:  Animal magnetism. 

BIOMETRY:  Measurement of life; calculation of the probable duration of human life. 

BION:  The physiological individual, characterized by definiteness and independence of function, in distinction from the morphological individual or morphon. 

BIONOMY:  Physiology. [R.] Dunglison.  BIOPHOR; BIOPHORE Bi"o*phor` Bi"o*phore`, n. Etym: [Gr. life + bearing, fr. to bear.] (Biol.)  One of the smaller vital units of a cell, the bearer of vitality and heredity. See Pangen, in Supplement. 

BIOPHOTOPHONE:  An instrument combining a cinematograph and a phonograph so that the moving figures on the screen are accompanied by the appropriate sounds. 

BIOPLASM:  A name suggested by Dr. Beale for the germinal matter supposed to be essential to the functions of all living beings; the material through which every form of life manifests itself; unaltered protoplasm. 

BIOPLASMIC:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, bioplasm. 

BIOPLAST:  A tiny mass of bioplasm, in itself a living unit and having formative power, as a living white blood corpuscle; bioblast. 

BIOPLASTIC:  Bioplasmic.  BIOPSYCHIC; BIOPSYCHICAL Bi`o*psy"chic, Bi`o*psy"chic*al, a. [Gr. bi`os life + psychic, -cal.]  Pertaining to psychical phenomena in their relation to the living organism or to the general phenomena of life. 

BIORGAN:  A physiological organ; a living organ; an organ endowed with function; -- distinguished from idorgan. 

BIOSCOPE:  A view of life; that which gives such a view.  Bagman's Bioscope: Various Views of Men and Manners. [Book Title.] W. Bayley (1824).  2.  An animated picture machine for screen projection; a cinematograph (which see). 

BIOSTATICS:  The physical phenomena of organized bodies, in opposition to their organic or vital phenomena. 

BIOSTATISTICS:  Vital statistics. 

BIOTAXY:  The classification of living organisms according to their structural character; taxonomy. 

BIOTIC:  Relating to life; as, the biotic principle. 

BIOTITE:  Mica containing iron and magnesia, generally of a black or dark green color; -- a common constituent of crystalline rocks. See Mica. 

BIPALMATE:  Palmately branched, with the branches again palmated. 

BIPARIETAL:  Of or pertaining to the diameter of the cranium, from one parietal fossa to the other. 

BIPAROUS:  Bringing forth two at a birth. 

BIPARTIBLE:  Capable of being divided into two parts. 

BIPARTIENT:  Dividing into two parts.  -- n.  A number that divides another into two equal parts without a remainder. 

BIPARTILE:  Divisible into two parts. 

BIPARTITION:  The act of dividing into two parts, or of making two correspondent parts, or the state of being so divided.  BIPECTINATE; BIPECTINATED Bi*pec"ti*nate, Bi*pec"ti*na`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + pectinate.] (Biol.)  Having two margins toothed like a comb. 

BIPED:  A two-footed animal, as man. 

BIPED:  Having two feet; two-footed. By which the man, when heavenly life was ceased, Became a helpless, naked, biped beast. Byrom. 

BIPELTATE:  Having a shell or covering like a double shield.  BIPENNATE; BIPENNATED Bi*pen"nate, Bi*pen"na*ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + pennate: cf. L. bipennis. Cf. Bipinnate.]  Having two wings. "Bipennated insects." Derham. 

BIPENNIS:  An ax with an edge or blade on each side of the handle. 

BIPETALOUS:  Having two petals. 

BIPINNARIA:  The larva of certain starfishes as developed in the free- swimming stage.  BIPINNATE; BIPINNATED Bi*pin"nate, Bi*pin"na*ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + pinnate; cf. F. bipinné. Cf. Bipennate.]  Twice pinnate. 

BIPINNATIFID:  Doubly pinnatifid.  Note: A bipinnatifid leaf is a pinnatifid leaf having its segments or divisions also pinnatifid. The primary divisions are pinnæ and the secondary pinnules. 

BIPLANE:  An aëroplane with two main supporting surfaces one above the other. 

BIPLANE:  Having, or consisting of, two superposed planes, aërocurves, or the like; of or pertaining to a biplane; as, a biplane rudder. 

BIPLICATE:  Twice folded together. Henslow. 

BIPLICITY:  The state of being twice folded; reduplication. [R.] Bailey. 

BIPOLAR:  Doubly polar; having two poles; as, a bipolar cell or corpuscle. 

BIPOLARITY:  Bipolar quality.  BIPONT; BIPONTINE Bi"pont, Bi*pont"ine, a. (Bibliog.)  Relating to books printed at Deuxponts, or Bipontium (Zweibrücken), in Bavaria. 

BIPRISM:  A prism whose refracting angle is very nearly 180 degrees.  2.  A combination of two short rectangular glass prisms cemented together at their diagonal faces so as to form a cube; -- called also optical cube. It is used in one form of photometer. 

BIPUNCTATE:  Having two punctures, or spots. 

BIPUNCTUAL:  Having two points. 

BIPUPILLATE:  Having an eyelike spot on the wing, with two dots within it of a different color, as in some butterflies. 

BIPYRAMIDAL:  Consisting of two pyramids placed base to base; having a pyramid at each of the extremities of a prism, as in quartz crystals. 

BIQUADRATE:  The fourth power, or the square of the square. Thus 4x4=16, the square of 4, and 16x16=256, the biquadrate of 4. 

BIQUADRATIC:  Of or pertaining to the biquadrate, or fourth power. Biquadratic equation (Alg.), an equation of the fourth degree, or an equation in some term of which the unknown quantity is raised to the fourth power.  -- Biquadratic root of a number, the square root of the square root of that number. Thus the square root of 81 is 9, and the square root of 9 is 3, which is the biquadratic root of 81. Hutton. 

BIQUINTILE:  An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other by twice the fifth part of a great circle -- that is, twice 72 degrees.  BIRADIATE; BIRADIATED Bi*ra"di*ate, Bi*ra"di*a`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + radiate.]  Having two rays; as, a biradiate fin. 

BIRAMOUS:  Having, or consisting of, two branches. 

BIRCH:  Of or pertaining to the birch; birchen. 

BIRCH:  To whip with a birch rod or twig; to flog. 

BIRCHEN:  Of or relating to birch. He passed where Newark's stately tower Looks out from Yarrow's birchen bower. Sir W. Scott. 

BIRD:  A warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate provided with wings. See Aves.  3. Specifically, among sportsmen, a game bird.  4. Fig.: A girl; a maiden. And by my word! the bonny bird In danger shall not tarry. Campbell. Arabian bird, the phenix.  -- Bird of Jove, the eagle.  -- Bird of Juno, the peacock.  -- Bird louse (Zoöl.), a wingless insect of the group Mallophaga, of which the genera and species are very numerous and mostly parasitic upon birds.  -- Bird mite (Zoöl.), a small mite (genera Dermanyssus, Dermaleichus and allies) parasitic upon birds. The species are numerous.  -- Bird of passage, a migratory bird.  -- Bird spider (Zoöl.), a very large South American spider (Mygale avicularia). It is said sometimes to capture and kill small birds.  -- Bird tick (Zoöl.), a dipterous insect parasitic upon birds (genus Ornithomyia, and allies), usually winged. 

BIRDBOLT:  A short blunt arrow for killing birds without piercing them. Hence: Anything which smites without penetrating. Shak.  BIRD CAGE; BIRDCAGE Bird" cage", or Bird"cage`, n.  A cage for confining birds. 

BIRDCATCHER:  One whose employment it is to catch birds; a fowler. 

BIRDCATCHING:  The art, act, or occupation or catching birds or wild fowls.  BIRD CHERRY Bird" cher`ry. (Bot.)  A shrub (Prunus Padus ) found in Northern and Central Europe. It bears small black cherries. 

BIRDER:  A birdcatcher.  BIRD-EYED Bird"-eyed`, a.  Quick-sighted; catching a glance as one goes.  BIRD FANCIER Bird" fan`ci*er.  1. One who takes pleasure in rearing or collecting rare or curious birds.  2. One who has for sale the various kinds of birds which are kept in cages. 

BIRDIE:  A pretty or dear little bird; -- a pet name. Tennyson. 

BIRDIKIN:  A young bird. Thackeray. 

BIRDING:  Birdcatching or fowling. Shak. Birding piece, a fowling piece. Shak. 

BIRDLET:  A little bird; a nestling. 

BIRDLIKE:  Resembling a bird. 

BIRDLIME:  An extremely adhesive viscid substance, usually made of the middle bark of the holly, by boiling, fermenting, and cleansing it. When a twig is smeared with this substance it will hold small birds which may light upon it. Hence: Anything which insnares. Not birdlime or Idean pitch produce A more tenacious mass of clammy juice. Dryden.  Note: Birdlime is also made from mistletoe, elder, etc. 

BIRDLIME:  o smear with birdlime; to catch with birdlime; to insnare. When the heart is thus birdlimed, then it cleaves to everything it meets with. Coodwin. 

BIRDLING:  A little bird; a nestling. 

BIRDMAN:  A fowler or birdcatcher.  BIRD OF PARADISE Bird" of par"a*dise. (Zoöl.)  The name of several very beautiful birds of the genus Paradisea and allied genera, inhabiting New Guinea and the adjacent islands. The males have brilliant colors, elegant plumes, and often remarkable tail feathers.  Note: The Great emerald (Paradisea apoda) and the Lesser emerald (P. minor) furnish many of the plumes used as ornaments by ladies; the Red is P. rubra or sanguinea; the Golden is Parotia aurea or sexsetacea; the King is Cincinnurus regius. The name is also applied to the longer-billed birds of another related group (Epimachinæ) from the same region. The Twelve-wired (Seleucides alba) is one of these. See Paradise bird, and Note under Apod.  BIRD PEPPER Bird" pep`per.  A species of capsicum (Capsicum baccatum), whose small, conical, coral-red fruit is among the most piquant of all red peppers.  BIRD'S-BEAK Bird's"-beak`, n. (Arch.)  A molding whose section is thought to resemble a beak. 

BIRDSEED:  Canary seed, hemp, millet or other small seeds used for feeding caged birds.  BIRD'S-EYE Bird's"-eye`, a.  1. Seen from above, as if by a flying bird; embraced at a glance; hence, generalas, a bird's-eye view.  2. Marked with spots resembling bird's eyes; as, bird's-eye diaper; bird's-eye maple.  BIRD'S-EYE Bird's"-eye`, n. (Bot.)  A plant with a small bright flower, as the Adonis or pheasant's eye, the mealy primrose (Primula farinosa), and species of Veronica, Geranium, etc.  BIRD'S-EYE MAPLE Bird's"-eye` ma"ple.  See under Maple.  BIRD'S-FOOT Bird's"-foot`, n. (Bot.)  A papilionaceous plant, the Ornithopus, having a curved, cylindrical pod tipped with a short, clawlike point. Bird's-foot trefoil. (Bot.) (a) A genus of plants (Lotus) with clawlike pods. L. corniculatas, with yellow flowers, is very common in Great Britain. (b) the related plant, Trigonella ornithopodioides, is also European.  BIRD'S-MOUTH Bird's-mouth`, n. (Arch.)  An interior acrow's-foot in the United States.  BIRD'S NEST; BIRD'S-NEST Bird's" nest`, or Bird's-nest, n.  1. The nest in which a bird lays eggs and hatches her young.  2. (Cookery)  The nest of a small swallow (Collocalia nidifica and several allied species), of China and the neighboring countries, which is mixed with soups.  Note: The nests are found in caverns and fissures of cliffs on rocky coasts, and are composed in part of algæ. They are of the size of a goose egg, and in substance resemble isinglass. See Illust. under Edible.  3. (Bot.)  An orchideous plant with matted roots, of the genus Neottia (N. nidus-avis.) Bird's-nest pudding, a pudding containing apples whose cores have been replaces by sugar.  -- Yellow bird's nest, a plant, the Monotropa hypopitys.  BIRD'S-NESTING Bird's-nest`ing, n.  Hunting for, or taking, birds' nests or their contents.  BIRD'S-TONGUE Bird's"-tongue`, n. (Bot.)  The knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare).  BIRD-WITTED Bird"-wit`ted, a.  Flighty; passing rapidly from one subject to another; not having the faculty of attention. Bacon. 

BIRDWOMAN:  An airwoman; an aviatress. [Colloq.] 

BIRECTANGULAR:  Containing or having two right angles; as, a birectangular spherical triangle. 

BIREME:  An ancient galley or vessel with two banks or tiers of oars. 

BIRETTA:  Same as Berretta. 

BIRGANDER:  See Bergander. 

BIRK:  A birch tree. [Prov. Eng.] "The silver birk." Tennyson. 

BIRK:  A small European minnow (Leuciscus phoxinus). 

BIRKEN:  To whip with a birch or rod. [Obs.] 

BIRKEN:  Birchen; as, birken groves. Burns. 

BIRKIE:  A lively or mettlesome fellow. [Jocular, Scot.] Burns. 

BIRL:  To revolve or cause to revolve; to spin. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

BIRL:  To pour (beer or wine); to ply with drink; to drink; to carouse. [Obs. or Dial.] Skelton. 

BIRLAW:  A law made by husbandmen respecting rural affairs; a rustic or local law or by-law. [Written also byrlaw, birlie, birley.]  BIROSTRATE; BIROSTRATED Bi*ros`trate, Bi*ros"tra*ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + rostrate.]  Having a double beak, or two processes resembling beaks. The capsule is bilocular and birostrated. Ed. Encyc. 

BIRR:  To make, or move with, a whirring noise, as of wheels in motion. 

BIRRUS:  A coarse kind of thick woolen cloth, worn by the poor in the Middle Ages; also, a woolen cap or hood worn over the shoulders or over the head. 

BIRSE:  A bristle or bristles. [Scot.] 

BIRT:  A fish of the turbot kind; the brill. [Written also burt, bret, or brut.] [Prov. Eng.] 

BIRTH:  See Berth. [Obs.] De Foe. 

BIRTHDAY:  Of or pertaining to the day of birth, or its anniversary; as, birthday gifts or festivities. 

BIRTHDOM:  The land of one's birth; one's inheritance. [R.] Shak. 

BIRTHING:  Anything added to raise the sides of a ship. Bailey. 

BIRTHLESS:  Of mean extraction. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

BIRTHMARK:  Some peculiar mark or blemish on the body at birth. Most part of this noble lineage carried upon their body for a natural birthmark, . . . a snake. Sir T. North. 

BIRTHNIGHT:  The night in which a person is born; the anniversary of that night in succeeding years. The angelic song in Bethlehem field, On thy birthnight, that sung thee Savior born. Milton. 

BIRTHPLACE:  The town, city, or country, where a person is born; place of origin or birth, in its more general sense. "The birthplace of valor." Burns. 

BIRTHRIGHT:  Any right, privilege, or possession to which a person is entitled by birth, such as an estate descendible by law to an heir, or civil liberty under a free constitution; esp. the rights or inheritance of the first born. Lest there be any . . . profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. Heb. xii. 16. 

BIRTHROOT:  An herbaceous plant (Trillium erectum), and its astringent rootstock, which is said to have medicinal properties. 

BIRTHWORT:  A genus of herbs and shrubs (Aristolochia), reputed to have medicinal properties. 

BIS:  Twice; -- a word showing that something is, or is to be, repeated; as a passage of music, or an item in accounts.  BIS; BIS- Bis*, pref.  A form of Bi-, sometimes used before s, c, or a vowel.  BISA ANTELOPE Bi"sa an"te*lope. (Zoöl.)  See Oryx. 

BISACCATE:  Having two little bags, sacs, or pouches. 

BISCAYAN:  Of or pertaining to Biscay in Spain.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Biscay. 

BISCOTIN:  A confection made of flour, sugar, marmalade, and eggs; a sweet biscuit. 

BISCUIT:  A species of white, unglazed porcelain, in which vases, figures, and groups are formed in miniature. Meat biscuit, an alimentary preparation consisting of matters extracted from meat by boiling, or of meat ground fine and combined with flour, so as to form biscuits. 

BISCUTATE:  Resembling two bucklers placed side by side. 

BISE:  A cold north wind which prevails on the northern coasts of the Mediterranean and in Switzerland, etc.; -- nearly the same as the mistral. 

BISE:  See Bice. 

BISECT:  To divide into two equal parts. 

BISECTION:  Division into two parts, esp. two equal parts. 

BISECTOR:  One who, or that which, bisects; esp. (Geom.) a straight line which bisects an angle. 

BISECTRIX:  The line bisecting the angle between the optic axes of a biaxial crystal. 

BISEGMENT:  One of tow equal parts of a line, or other magnitude. 

BISEPTATE:  With two partitions or septa. Gray.  BISERIAL; BISERIATE Bi*se"ri*al, Bi*se"ri*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + serial, seriate.]  In two rows or series. 

BISERRATE:  Doubly serrate, or having the serratures serrate, as in some leaves.  2. (Zoöl.)  Serrate on both sides, as some antennæ.  BISETOSE; BISETOUS Bi*se"tose, Bi*se"tous, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + setose, setous.]  Having two bristles. 

BISEXOUS:  Bisexual. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

BISEXUAL:  Of both sexes; hermaphrodite; as a flower with stamens and pistil, or an animal having ovaries and testes. 

BISEXUOUS:  Bisexual. 

BISEYE:  of Besee. [Obs.] Chaucer. Evil biseye, ill looking. [Obs.] 

BISH:  Same as Bikh. 

BISHOP:  To admit into the church by confirmation; to confirm; hence, to receive formally to favor. 

BISHOP:  To make seem younger, by operating on the teeth; as, to bishop an old horse or his teeth.  Note: The plan adopted is to cut off all the nippers with a saw to the proper length, and then with a cutting instrument the operator scoops out an oval cavity in the corner nippers, which is afterwards burnt with a hot iron until it is black. J. H. Walsh. 

BISHOPDOM:  Jurisdiction of a bishop; episcopate. "Divine right of bishopdom." Milton. 

BISHOPLIKE:  Resembling a bishop; belonging to a bishop. Fulke. 

BISHOPLY:  Bishoplike; episcopal. [Obs.] 

BISHOPLY:  In the manner of a bishop. [Obs.] 

BISHOPRIC:  A plant of the genus Mitella; miterwort. Longfellow.  BISHOP SLEEVE Bish"op sleeve`.  A wide sleeve, once worn by women.  BISHOP'S LENGTH Bish"op's length`.  A canvas for a portrait measuring 58 by 94 inches. The half bishop measures 45 of 56.  BISHOP-STOOL Bish"op-stool`, n.  A bishop's seat or see.  BISHOP'S-WEED Bish"op's-weed`, n. (Bot.) (a) An umbelliferous plant of the genus Ammi. (b) Goutweed (Ægopodium podagraria).  BISHOP'S-WORT Bish"op's-wort`, n. (Bot.)  Wood betony (Stachys betonica); also, the plant called fennel flower (Nigella Damascena), or devil-in-a-bush. 

BISIE:  To busy; to employ. [Obs.] 

BISILICATE:  A salt of metasilicic acid; -- so called because the ratio of the oxygen of the silica to the oxygen of the base is as two to one. The bisilicates include many of the most common and important minerals. 

BISK:  Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together. King. 

BISK:  See Bisque.  BISKARA BOIL; BISKARA BUTTON Bis"ka*ra boil`, Bis"ka*ra but"ton . [Named after the town Biskara, in Algeria.] (Med.)  Same as Aleppo boil.  BISMARE; BISMER Bi*smare", Bi*smer", n. Etym: [AS. bismer.]  Shame; abuse. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BISMER:  The fifteen-spined (Gasterosteus spinachia). 

BISMILLAH:  An adjuration or exclamation common among the Mohammedans. [Written also Bizmillah.] 

BISMITE:  Bismuth trioxide, or bismuth ocher. 

BISMUTH:  One of the elements; a metal of a reddish white color, crystallizing in rhombohedrons. It is somewhat harder than lead, and rather brittle; masses show broad cleavage surfaces when broken across. It melts at 507º Fahr., being easily fused in the flame of a candle. It is found in a native state, and as a constituent of some minerals. Specific gravity 9.8. Atomic weight 207.5. Symbol Bi.  Note: Chemically, bismuth (with arsenic and antimony is intermediate between the metals and nonmetals; it is used in thermo-electric piles, and as an alloy with lead and tin in the fusible alloy or metal. Bismuth is the most diamagnetic substance known. Bismuth glance, bismuth sulphide; bismuthinite.  -- Bismuth ocher, a native bismuth oxide; bismite. 

BISMUTHAL:  Containing bismuth. 

BISMUTHIC:  Of or pertaining to bismuth; containing bismuth, when this element has its higher valence; as, bismuthic oxide. 

BISMUTHIFEROUS:  Containing bismuth.  BISMUTHINE; BISMUTHINITE Bis"muth*ine, Bis"muth*in*ite, n.  Native bismuth sulphide; -- sometimes called bismuthite. 

BISMUTHOUS:  Of, or containing, bismuth, when this element has its lower valence. 

BISMUTHYL:  Hydrous carbonate of bismuth, an earthy mineral of a dull white or yellowish color. [Written also bismuthite.] 

BISPINOSE:  Having two spines. 

BISQUE:  Unglazed white porcelain. 

BISQUE:  A point taken by the receiver of odds in the game of tennis; also, an extra innings allowed to a weaker player in croquet. 

BISQUE:  A white soup made of crayfish.  BISSELL TRUCK Bis"sell truck.  A truck for railroad rolling stock, consisting of two ordinary axle boxes sliding in guides attached to a triangular frame; -- called also pony truck. 

BISSEXTILE:  Leap year; every fourth year, in which a day is added to the month of February on account of the excess of the tropical year (365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 46 s.) above 365 days. But one day added every four years is equivalent to six hours each year, which is 11 m. 14 s. more than the excess of the real year. Hence, it is necessary to suppress the bissextile day at the end of every century which is not divisible by 400, while it is retained at the end of those which are divisible by 400. 

BISSEXTILE:  Pertaining to leap year. 

BISSON:  Purblind; blinding. [Obs.] "Bisson rheum." Shak.  BISTER; BISTRE Bis"ter, Bis"tre, n. Etym: [F. bistre a color made of soot; of unknown origin. Cf., however, LG. biester frowning, dark, ugly.] (Paint.)  A dark brown pigment extracted from the soot of wood. 

BISTIPULED:  Having two stipules. 

BISTORT:  An herbaceous plant of the genus Polygonum, section Bistorta; snakeweed; adderwort. Its root is used in medicine as an astringent. 

BISTOURY:  A surgical instrument consisting of a slender knife, either straight or curved, generally used by introducing it beneath the part to be divided, and cutting towards the surface. 

BISTRE:  See Bister. 

BISULCATE:  Cloven; said of a foot or hoof. 

BISULCOUS:  Bisulcate. Sir T. Browne. 

BISULPHATE:  A sulphate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the normal sulphates; an acid sulphate. 

BISULPHIDE:  A sulphide having two atoms of sulphur in the molecule; a disulphide, as in iron pyrites, FeS2; -- less frequently called bisulphuret. 

BISULPHITE:  A salt of sulphurous acid in which the base replaces but half the hydrogen of the acid; an acid sulphite. 

BISULPHURET:  See Bisulphide. 

BIT:  To put a bridle upon; to put the bit in the mouth of. 

BIT:  imp. & p. p. of Bite. 

BIT:  of Bid, for biddeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BITAKE:  To commend; to commit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BITANGENT:  Possessing the property of touching at two points.  -- n.  A line that touches a curve in two points. 

BITARTRATE:  A salt of tartaric acid in which the base replaces but half the acid hydrogen; an acid tartrate, as cream of tartar. 

BITE:  A blank on the edge or corner of a page, owing to a portion of the frisket, or something else, intervening between the type and paper. 

BITERNATE:  Doubly ternate, as when a petiole has three ternate leaflets.  -- Bi*ter"nate*ly, adv. Gray. 

BITHEISM:  Belief in the existence of two gods; dualism. 

BITING:  That bites; sharp; cutting; sarcastic; caustic. "A biting affliction." "A biting jest." Shak.  BITING IN Bit"ing in". (Etching.)  The process of corroding or eating into metallic plates, by means of an acid. See Etch. G. Francis. 

BITINGLY:  In a biting manner. 

BITLESS:  Not having a bit or bridle.  BITO; BITO TREE Bi"to, n., Bi"to tree`. [Etym. uncertain.] (Bot.)  A small scrubby tree (Balanites Ægyptiaca) growing in dry regions of tropical Africa and Asia.   The hard yellowish white wood is made into plows in Abyssinia; the bark is used in Farther India to stupefy fish; the ripe fruit is edible, when green it is an anthelmintic; the fermented juice is used as a beverage; the seeds yield a medicinal oil called zachun. The African name of the tree is hajilij. 

BITSTOCK:  A stock or handle for holding and rotating a bit; a brace. 

BITT:  See Bitts. 

BITT:  To put round the bitts; as, to bitt the cable, in order to fasten it or to slacken it gradually, which is called veering away. Totten. 

BITTACLE:  A binnacle. [Obs.] 

BITTEN:  of Bite. 

BITTEN:  Terminating abruptly, as if bitten off; premorse. 

BITTER:  AA turn of the cable which is round the bitts. Bitter end, that part of a cable which is abaft the bitts, and so within board, when the ship rides at anchor. 

BITTER:  Any substance that is bitter. See Bitters. 

BITTER:  To make bitter. Wolcott. 

BITTERBUMP:  the butterbump or bittern. 

BITTERFUL:  Full of bitterness. [Obs.] 

BITTERING:  A bitter compound used in adulterating beer; bittern. 

BITTERISH:  Somewhat bitter. Goldsmith. 

BITTERLING:  A roachlike European fish (Rhodima amarus). 

BITTERLY:  In a bitter manner. 

BITTERN:  A wading bird of the genus Botaurus, allied to the herons, of various species.  Note: The common European bittern is Botaurus stellaris. It makes, during the brooding season, a noise called by Dryden bumping, and by Goldsmith booming. The American bittern is B. lentiginosus, and is also called stake-driver and meadow hen. See Stake-driver.  Note: The name is applied to other related birds, as the least bittern (Ardetta exilis), and the sun bittern. 

BITTERNUT:  The swamp hickory (Carya amara). Its thin-shelled nuts are bitter. 

BITTERROOT:  A plant (Lewisia rediviva) allied to the purslane, but with fleshy, farinaceous roots, growing in the mountains of Idaho, Montana, etc. It gives the name to the Bitter Root mountains and river. The Indians call both the plant and the river Spæt'lum. 

BITTERS:  A liquor, generally spirituous in which a bitter herb, leaf, or root is steeped.  BITTER SPAR Bit"ter spar".  A common name of dolomite; -- so called because it contains magnesia, the soluble salts of which are bitter. See Dolomite. 

BITTERSWEET:  Sweet and then bitter or bitter and then sweet; esp. sweet with a bitter after taste; hence (Fig.), pleasant but painful. 

BITTERWEED:  A species of Ambrosia (A. artemisiæfolia); Roman worm wood. Gray. 

BITTERWOOD:  A West Indian tree (Picræna excelsa) from the wood of which the bitter drug Jamaica quassia is obtained. 

BITTERWORT:  The yellow gentian (Gentiana lutea), which has a very bitter taste. 

BITTOCK:  A small bit of anything, of indefinite size or quantity; a short distance. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.  BITTOR; BITTOUR Bit"tor Bit"tour, n. Etym: [See Bittern] (Zoöl.)  The bittern. Dryden. 

BITTS:  A frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the fore part of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides at anchor, or in warping. Other bitts are used for belaying (belaying bitts), for sustaining the windlass (carrick bitts, winch bitts, or windlass bitts), to hold the pawls of the windlass (pawl bitts) etc. 

BITUME:  Bitumen. [Poetic] May. 

BITUMED:  Smeared with bitumen. [R.] "The hatches caulked and bitumed." Shak. 

BITUMEN:  Any process in which  advantage is taken of the fact that prepared bitumen is rendered insoluble by exposure to light, as in photolithography. 

BITUMINATE:  To treat or impregnate with bitumen; to cement with bitumen. "Bituminated walls of Babylon." Feltham. 

BITUMINIFEROUS:  Producing bitumen. Kirwan. 

BITUMINIZATION:  The process of bituminizing. Mantell. 

BITUMINIZE:  To prepare, treat, impregnate, or coat with bitumen. 

BITUMINOUS:  Having the qualities of bitumen; compounded with bitumen; containing bitumen. Near that bituminous lake where Sodom flamed. Milton. Bituminous coal, a kind of coal which yields, when heated, a considerable amount of volatile bituminous matter. It burns with a yellow smoky flame.  -- Bituminous limestone, a mineral of a brown or black color, emitting an unpleasant smell when rubbed. That of Dalmatia is so charged with bitumen that it may be cut like soap.  -- Bituminous shale, an argillaceous shale impregnated with bitumen, often accompanying coal. 

BIURET:  A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, C2O2N3H5, formed by heating urea. It is intermediate between urea and cyanuric acid. 

BIVALENCY:  The quality of being bivalent. 

BIVALENT:  Equivalent in combining or displacing power to two atoms of hydrogen; dyad. 

BIVALVE:  A mollusk having a shell consisting of two lateral plates or valves joined together by an elastic ligament at the hinge, which is usually strengthened by prominences called teeth. The shell is closed by the contraction of two transverse muscles attached to the inner surface, as in the clam, -- or by one, as in the oyster. See Mollusca.  2. (Bot.)  A pericarp in which the seed case opens or splits into two parts or valves. 

BIVALVE:  Having two shells or valves which open and shut, as the oyster and certain seed vessels. 

BIVALVED:  Having two valves, as the oyster and some seed pods; bivalve. 

BIVALVOUS:  Bivalvular. 

BIVALVULAR:  Having two valves. 

BIVAULTED:  Having two vaults or arches. 

BIVECTOR:  A term made up of the two parts 

BIVENTRAL:  (Anat.) Having two bellies or protuberances; as, a biventral, or digastric, muscle, or the biventral lobe of the cerebellum. 

BIVIAL:  Of or relating to the bivium. 

BIVIOUS:  Having, or leading, two ways. Bivious theorems and Janus-faced doctrines. Sir T. Browne. 

BIVIUM:  One side of an echinoderm, including a pair of ambulacra, in distinction from the opposite side (trivium), which includes three ambulacra. 

BIWEEKLY:  Occurring or appearing once every two weeks; fortnightly.  -- n.  A publication issued every two weeks.  -- Bi"week"ly, adv. 

BIWREYE:  To bewray; to reveal. [Obs.] 

BIZANTINE:  See Byzantine. 

BIZARRE:  Odd in manner or appearance; fantastic; whimsical; extravagant; grotesque. C. Kingsley. 

BIZET:  The upper faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond, which projects from the setting and occupies the zone between the girdle and the table. See Brilliant, n. 

BLAB:  To utter or tell unnecessarily, or in a thoughtless manner; to publish (secrets or trifles) without reserve or discretion. Udall. And yonder a vile physician blabbing The case of his patient. Tennyson. 

BLAB:  To talk thoughtlessly or without discretion; to tattle; to tell tales. She must burst or blab. Dryden. 

BLAB:  One who blabs; a babbler; a telltale. "Avoided as a blab." Milton. For who will open himself to a blab or a babbler. Bacon. 

BLABBER:  A tattler; a telltale. 

BLACK:  Sullenly; threateningly; maliciously; so as to produce blackness. 

BLACK:  Mourning garments of a black color; funereal drapery. Friends weeping, and blacks, and obsequies, and the like show death terrible. Bacon. That was the full time they used to wear blacks for the death of their fathers. Sir T. North.  5. The part of a thing which is distinguished from the rest by being black. The black or sight of the eye. Sir K. Digby.  6. A stain; a spot; a smooch. Defiling her white lawn of chastity with ugly blacks of lust. Rowley. Black and white, writing or print; as, I must have that statement in black and white.  -- Blue black, a pigment of a blue black color.  -- Ivory black, a fine kind of animal charcoal prepared by calcining ivory or bones. When ground it is the chief ingredient of the ink used in copperplate printing.  -- Berlin black. See under Berlin. 

BLACKAMOOR:  A negro or negress. Shak.  BLACK ART Black" art`.  The art practiced by conjurers and witches; necromancy; conjuration; magic.  Note: This name was given in the Middle Ages to necromancy, under the idea that the latter term was derived from niger black, instead of nekro`s, a dead person, and mantei`a, divination. Wright.  BLACK-A-VISED Black"-a-vised`, a.  Dark-visaged; swart. 

BLACKBAND:  An earthy carbonate of iron containing considerable carbonaceous matter; -- valuable as an iron ore.  BLACK BASS Black" bass`. (Zoöl.)  1. An edible, fresh-water fish of the United States, of the genus Micropterus. the small-mouthed kind is M. dolomiei; the largemouthed is M. salmoides.  2. The sea bass. See Blackfish, 3. 

BLACKBERRY:  The fruit of several species of bramble (Rubus); also, the plant itself. Rubus fruticosus is the blackberry of England; R. villosus and R. Canadensis are the high blackberry and low blackberry of the United States. There are also other kinds. 

BLACKBIRD:  In England, a species of thrush (Turdus merula), a singing bird with a fin note; the merle. In America the name is given to several birds, as the Quiscalus versicolor, or crow blackbird; the Agelæus phoeniceus, or red-winged blackbird; the cowbird; the rusty grackle, etc. See Redwing. 

BLACKBIRDER:  A slave ship; a slaver. [Colloq.]  F. T. Bullen. 

BLACKBOARD:  A broad board painted black, or any black surface on which writing, drawing, or the working of mathematical problems can be done with chalk or crayons. It is much used in schools.  BLACK BOOK Black" book`.  1. One of several books of a political character, published at different times and for different purposes; -- so called either from the color of the binding, or from the character of the contents.  2. A book compiled in the twelfth century, containing a description of the court of exchequer of England, an official statement of the revenues of the crown, etc.  3. A book containing details of the enormities practiced in the English monasteries and religious houses, compiled by order of their visitors under Henry VIII., to hasten their dissolution.  4. A book of admiralty law, of the highest authority, compiled in the reign of Edw. III. Bouvier. Wharton.  5. A book kept for the purpose of registering the names of persons liable to censure or punishment, as in the English universities, or the English armies.  6. Any book which treats of necromancy.  BLACK-BROWED Black"-browed`, a.  Having black eyebrows. Hence: Gloomy; dismal; threatening; forbidding. Shak. Dryden.  BLACKBURNIAN WARBLER Black*bur"ni*an war"bler. Etym: [Named from Mrs. Blackburn, an English lady.] (Zoöl.)  A beautiful warbler of the United States (Dendroica Blackburniæ). The male is strongly marked with orange, yellow, and black on the head and neck, and has an orange-yellow breast. 

BLACKCAP:  An apple roasted till black, to be served in a dish of boiled custard.  3. The black raspberry. 

BLACKCOAT:  A clergyman; -- familiarly so called, as a soldier is sometimes called a redcoat or a bluecoat. 

BLACKCOCK:  The male of the European black grouse (Tetrao tetrix, Linn.); - - so called by sportsmen. The female is called gray hen. See Heath grouse.  BLACK DEATH Black" death`.  A pestilence which ravaged Europe and Asia in the fourteenth century. 

BLACKEN:  To grow black or dark. 

BLACKENER:  One who blackens.  BLACK-EYED Black"-eyed`, a.  Having black eyes. Dryden.  BLACK-EYED SUSAN Black"-eyed` Su"san. (Bot.)  (a) The coneflower, or yellow daisy (Rudbeckia hirta).  (b) The bladder ketmie.  BLACK-FACED Black"-faced`, a.  Having a black, dark, or gloomy face or aspect. 

BLACKFEET:  A tribe of North American Indians formerly inhabiting the country from the upper Missouri River to the Saskatchewan, but now much reduced in numbers. 

BLACKFIN:  See Bluefin. 

BLACKFISH:  A small kind of whale, of the genus Globicephalus, of several species. The most common is G. melas. Also sometimes applied to other whales of larger size.  2. (Zoöl.)  The tautog of New England (Tautoga).  3. (Zoöl.)  The black sea bass (Centropristis atrarius) of the Atlantic coast. It is excellent food fish; -- locally called also black Harry.  4. (Zoöl.)  A fish of southern Europe (Centrolophus pompilus) of the Mackerel family.  5. (Zoöl.)  The female salmon in the spawning season.  Note: The name is locally applied to other fishes.  BLACK FLAGS Black Flags.  An organization composed originally of Chinese rebels that had been driven into Tonkin by the suppression of the Taiping rebellion, but later increased by bands of pirates and adventurers. It took a prominent part in fighting the French during their hostilities with Anam, 1873-85. 

BLACKFOOT:  Of or pertaining to the Blackfeet; as, a Blackfoot Indian.  -- n.  A Blackfoot Indian.  BLACK FRIAR Black" fri`ar. (Eccl.)  A friar of the Dominican order; -- called also predicant and preaching friar; in France, Jacobin. Also, sometimes, a Benedictine.  BLACK FRIDAY Black Friday.  Any Friday on which a public disaster has occurred, as: In England, December 6, 1745, when the news of the landing of the Pretender reached London, or May 11, 1866,  when a financial panic commenced. In the United States, September 24, 1869, and September 18, 1873, on which financial panics began. 

BLACKGUARD:  To revile or abuse in scurrilous language. Southey. 

BLACKGUARD:  Scurrilous; abusive; low; worthless; vicious; as, blackguard language. 

BLACKGUARDISM:  The conduct or language of a blackguard; rufflanism. 

BLACKGUARDLY:  In the manner of or resembling a blackguard; abusive; scurrilous; ruffianly.  BLACK HAMBURG Black Ham"burg.  A sweet and juicy variety of European grape, of a dark purplish black color, much grown under glass in northern latitudes.  BLACK HAND Black Hand. [A trans. of Sp. mano negra.]  1.  A Spanish anarchistic society, many of the members of which were imprisoned in 1883.  2.  A lawless or blackmailing secret society, esp. among Italians. [U. S.] 

BLACKHEAD:  The scaup duck. 

BLACKHEART:  A heart-shaped cherry with a very dark-colored skin.  BLACK-HEARTED Black"-heart`ed, a.  Having a wicked, malignant disposition; morally bad.  BLACK HOLE Black" hole`.  A dungeon or dark cell in a prison; a military lock-up or guardroom; -- now commonly with allusion to the cell (the Black Hole) in a fort at Calcutta, into which 146 English prisoners were thrust by the nabob Suraja Dowla on the night of June 20, 17656, and in which 123 of the prisoners died before morning from lack of air. A discipline of unlimited autocracy, upheld by rods, and ferules, and the black hole. H. Spencer. 

BLACKISH:  Somewhat black.  BLACK-JACK Black"-jack`, n.  1. (Min.)  A name given by English miners to sphalerite, or zinc blende; - - called also false galena. See Blende.  2. Caramel or burnt sugar, used to color wines, spirits, ground coffee, etc.  3. A large leather vessel for beer, etc. [Obs.]  4. (Bot.)  The Quercus nigra, or barren oak.  5. The ensign of a pirate.  BLACK LEAD Black` lead".  Plumbago; graphite.It leaves a blackish mark somewhat like lead. See Graphite. 

BLACKLEAD:  To coat or to polish with black lead. 

BLACKLEG:  The old English or Gothic letter, in which the Early English manuscripts were written, and the first English books were printed. It was conspicuous for its blackness. See Type.  BLACK-LETTER Black"-let`ter, a.  1. Written or printed in black letter; as, a black-letter manuscript or book.  2. Given to the study of books in black letter; that is, of old books; out of date. Kemble, a black-letter man! J. Boaden.  3. Of or pertaining to the days in the calendar not marked with red letters as saints' days. Hence: Unlucky; inauspicious. 

BLACKLIST:  To put in a black list as deserving of suspicion, censure, or punishment; esp. to put in a list of persons stigmatized as insolvent or untrustworthy, -- as tradesmen and employers do for mutual protection; as, to blacklist a workman who has been discharged. See Black list, under Black, a. If you blacklist us, we will boycott you. John Swinton. 

BLACKLY:  In a black manner; darkly, in color; gloomily; threateningly; atrociously. "Deeds so blackly grim and horrid." Feltham. 

BLACKMAIL:  Black rent, or rent paid in corn, flesh, or the lowest coin, a opposed to "white rent", which paid in silver. To levy blackmail, to extort money by threats, as of injury to one's reputation. 

BLACKMAIL:  To extort money from by exciting fears of injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation, distress of mind, etc.; as, to blackmail a merchant by threatening to expose an alleged fraud. [U. S.] 

BLACKMAILER:  One who extorts, or endeavors to extort, money, by black mailing. 

BLACKMAILING:  The act or practice of extorting money by exciting fears of injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation.  BLACK MONDAY Black" Mon`day.  1. Easter Monday, so called from the severity of that day in 1360, which was so unusual that many of Edward III.'s soldiers, then before Paris, died from the cold. Stow. Then it was not for nothing that may nose fell a bleeding on Black Monday last. Shak.  2. The first Monday after the holidays; -- so called by English schoolboys. Halliwell.  BLACK MONK Black" monk`.  A Benedictine monk. 

BLACKMOOR:  See Blackamoor.  BLACK-MOUTHED Black"-mouthed`, a.  Using foul or scurrilous language; slanderous. 

BLACKNESS:  The quality or state of being black; black color; atrociousness or enormity in wickedness. They're darker now than blackness. Donne. 

BLACKPOLL:  A warbler of the United States (Dendroica striata).  BLACK PUDDING Black" pud"ding.  A kind of sausage made of blood, suet, etc., thickened with meal. And fat black puddings, -- proper food, For warriors that delight in blood. Hudibras.  BLACK ROD Black" Rod`. (a) the usher to the Chapter of the Garter, so called from the black rod which he carries. He is of the king's chamber, and also usher to the House of Lords. [Eng.] (b) An usher in the legislature of British colonies. Cowell. Committed to the custody of the Black Rod. Macaulay. 

BLACKROOT:  See Colicroot. 

BLACKSALTER:  One who,makes crude potash, or black salts.  BLACK SALTS Black" salts`.  Crude potash. De Colange. 

BLACKSMITH:  A fish of the Pacific coast (Chromis, or Heliastes, punctipinnis), of a blackish color.  BLACK SNAKE; BLACKSNAKE Black" snake` or Black"snake, n. (Zoöl.)  A snake of a black color, of which two species are common in the United States, the Bascanium constrictor, or racer, sometimes six feet long, and the Scotophis Alleghaniensis, seven or eight feet long.  Note: The name is also applied to various other black serpents, as Natrix atra of Jamaica.  BLACK SPANISH Black Spanish.  One of an old and well-known Mediterranean breed of domestic fowls with glossy black plumage, blue legs and feet, bright red comb and wattles, and white face. They are remarkable as egg layers. 

BLACKTAIL:  A fish; the ruff or pope.  2. (Zoöl.)  The black-tailed deer (Cervus or Cariacus Columbianus) of California and Oregon; also, the mule deer of the Rocky Mountains. See Mule deer. 

BLACKTHORN:  A copious vomiting of dark-colored matter; or the substance so discharged; -- one of the most fatal symptoms in yellow fever.  BLACK WASH; BLACKWASH Black" wash` or Black"wash, n.  1. (Med.)  A lotion made by mixing calomel and lime water.  2. A wash that blackens, as opposed to whitewash; hence, figuratively, calumny. To remove as far as he can the modern layers of black wash, and let the man himself, fair or foul, be seen. C. Kingsley.  BLACKWATER STATE Black"wa`ter State.  Nebraska; -- a nickname alluding to the dark color of the water of its rivers, due to the presence of a black vegetable mold in the soil. 

BLACKWOOD:  A name given to several dark-colored timbers. The East Indian black wood is from the tree Dalbergia latifolia. Balfour. 

BLACKWORK:  Work wrought by blacksmiths; -- so called in distinction from that wrought by whitesmiths. Knight. 

BLADDER:  A bag or sac in animals, which serves as the receptacle of some fluid; as, the urinary bladder; the gall bladder; -- applied especially to the urinary bladder, either within the animal, or when taken out and inflated with air.  2. Any vesicle or blister, especially if filled with air, or a thin, watery fluid.  3. (Bot.)  A distended, membranaceous pericarp.  4. Anything inflated, empty, or unsound. "To swim with bladders of philosophy." Rochester. Bladder nut, or Bladder tree (Bot.), a genus of plants (Staphylea) with bladderlike seed pods.  -- Bladder pod (Bot.), a genus of low herbs (Vesicaria) with inflated seed pods.  -- Bladdor senna (Bot.), a genus of shrubs (Colutea), with membranaceous, inflated pods.  -- Bladder worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any species of tapeworm (Tænia), found in the flesh or other parts of animals. See Measle, Cysticercus.  -- Bladder wrack (Bot.), the common black rock weed of the seacoast (Fucus nodosus and F. vesiculosus) -- called also bladder tangle. See Wrack. 

BLADDERWORT:  A genus (Utricularia) of aquatic or marshy plants, which usually bear numerous vesicles in the divisions of the leaves. These serve as traps for minute animals. See Ascidium. 

BLADDERY:  Having bladders; also, resembling a bladder. 

BLADE:  The principal rafters of a roof. Weale.  6. pl. (Com.)  The four large shell plates on the sides, and the five large ones of the middle, of the carapace of the sea turtle, which yield the best tortoise shell. De Colange.  7. A sharp-witted, dashing, wild, or reckless, fellow; -- a word of somewhat indefinite meaning. He saw a turnkey in a trice Fetter a troublesome blade. Coleridge. 

BLADE:  To furnish with a blade. 

BLADE:  To put forth or have a blade. As sweet a plant, as fair a flower, is faded As ever in the Muses' garden bladed. P. Fletcher. 

BLADEBONE:  The scapula. See Blade, 4. 

BLADED:  Composed of long and narrow plates, shaped like the blade of a knife. 

BLADEFISH:  A long, thin, marine fish of Europe (Trichiurus lepturus); the ribbon fish. 

BLADESMITH:  A sword cutler. [Obs.] 

BLADY:  Consisting of blades. [R.] "Blady grass." Drayton. 

BLAE:  Dark blue or bluish gray; lead-colored. [Scot.] 

BLAEBERRY:  The bilberry. [North of Eng. & Scot.] 

BLAGUE:  Mendacious boasting; falcefood; humbug. 

BLAIN:  A bladder growing on the root of the tongue of a horse, against the windpipe, and stopping the breath. 

BLAMABLE:  Deserving of censure; faulty; culpable; reprehensible; censurable; blameworthy.  -- Blam"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Blam"a*bly (, adv. 

BLAMELESS:  Free from blame; without fault; innocent; guiltless; -- sometimes followed by of. A bishop then must be blameless. 1 Tim. iii. 2. Blameless still of arts that polish to deprave. Mallet. We will be blameless of this thine oath. Josh. ii. 17.  Syn.  -- Irreproachable; sinless; unblemished; inculpable.  -- Blameless, Spotless, Faultless, Stainless. We speak of a thing as blameless when it is free from blame, or the just imputation of fault; as, a blameless life or character. The others are stronger. We speak of a thing as faultless, stainless, or spotless, only when we mean that it is absolutely without fault or blemish; as, a spotless or stainless reputation; a faultless course of conduct. The last three words apply only to the general character, while blameless may be used in reverence to particular points; as, in this transaction he was wholly blameless. We also apply faultless to personal appearance; as, a faultless figure; which can not be done in respect to any of the other words. 

BLAMELESSLY:  In a blameless manner. 

BLAMELESSNESS:  The quality or state of being blameless; innocence. 

BLAMER:  One who blames. Wyclif. 

BLAMEWORTHY:  Deserving blame; culpable; reprehensible.  -- Blame"wor`thi*ness, n. 

BLANCARD:  A kind of linen cloth made in Normandy, the thread of which is partly blanches before it is woven. 

BLANCH:  To bleach by excluding the light, as the stalks or leaves of plants, by earthing them up or tying them together.  3. (Confectionery & Cookery) (a) To make white by removing the skin of, as by scalding; as, to blanch almonds. (b) To whiten, as the surface of meat, by plunging into boiling water and afterwards into cold, so as to harden the surface and retain the juices.  4. To give a white luster to (silver, before stamping, in the process of coining.).  5. To cover (sheet iron) with a coating of tin.  6. Fig.: To whiten; to give a favorable appearance to; to whitewash; to palliate. Blanch over the blackest and most absurd things. Tillotson.  Syn.  -- To Blanch, Whiten. To whiten is the generic term, denoting, to render white; as, to whiten the walls of a room. Usually (though not of necessity) this is supposed to be done by placing some white coloring matter in or upon the surface of the object in question. To blanch is to whiten by the removal of coloring matter; as, to blanch linen. So the cheek is blanched by fear, i. e., by the withdrawal of the blood, which leaves it white. 

BLANCH:  To grow or become white; as, his cheek blanched with fear; the rose blanches in the sun. [Bones] blanching on the grass. Tennyson. 

BLANCH:  To use evasion. [Obs.] Books will speak plain, when counselors blanch. Bacon. 

BLANCH:  Ore, not in masses, but mixed with other minerals.  BLANCHARD LATHE Blan"chard lathe. [After Thomas Blanchard, American inventor.] (Mach.)  A kind of wood-turning lathe for making noncircular and irregular forms, as felloes, gun stocks, lasts, spokes, etc., after a given pattern. The pattern and work rotate on parallel spindles in the same direction with the same speed, and the work is shaped by a rapidly rotating cutter whose position is varied by the pattern acting as a cam upon a follower wheel traversing slowly along the pattern. 

BLANCHER:  One who, or that which, blanches or whitens; esp., one who anneals and cleanses money; also, a chemical preparation for this purpose. 

BLANCHER:  One who, or that which, frightens away or turns aside. [Obs.] And Gynecia, a blancher, which kept the dearest deer from her. Sir P. Sidney. And so even now hath he divers blanchers belonging to the market, to let and stop the light of the gospel. Latimer.  BLANCH HOLDING Blanch" hold`ing. (Scots Law)  A mode of tenure by the payment of a small duty in white rent (silver) or otherwise. 

BLANCHIMETER:  An instrument for measuring the bleaching power of chloride of lime and potash; a chlorometer. Ure. 

BLANCMANGE:  A preparation for desserts, etc., made from isinglass, sea moss, cornstarch, or other gelatinous or starchy substance, with mild, usually sweetened and flavored, and shaped in a mold. 

BLANCMANGER:  A sort of fricassee with white sauce, variously made of capon, fish, etc. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BLANDATION:  Flattery. [Obs.] 

BLANDILOQUENCE:  Mild, flattering speech.  BLANDILOQUOUS; BLANDILOQUIOUS Blan*dil"o*quous, Blan*di*lo"qui*ous, a.  Fair-spoken; flattering. 

BLANDISE:  To blandish any one. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BLANDISHER:  One who uses blandishments. 

BLANDISHMENT:  The act of blandishing; a word or act expressive of affection or kindness, and tending to win the heart; soft words and artful caresses; cajolery; allurement. Cowering low with blandishment. Milton. Attacked by royal smiles, by female blandishments. Macaulay. 

BLANDLY:  In a bland manner; mildly; suavely. 

BLANDNESS:  The state or quality of being bland. 

BLANK:  A piece of metal prepared to be made into something by a further operation, as a coin, screw, nuts.  9. (Dominoes)  A piece or division of a piece, without spots; as, the "double blank"; the "six blank." In blank, with an essential portion to be supplied by another; as, to make out a check in blank. 

BLANKET:  A piece of rubber, felt, or woolen cloth, used in the tympan to make it soft and elastic.  3. A streak or layer of blubber in whales.  Note: The use of blankets formerly as curtains in theaters explains the following figure of Shakespeare. Nares. Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark To cry, "Hold, hold!" Shak. Blanket sheet, a newspaper of folio size.  -- A wet blanket, anything which damps, chills, dispirits, or discour 

BLANKET:  A clause, as in a blanket mortgage or policy, that includes a group or class of things, rather than a number mentioned individually and having the burden, loss, or the like, apportioned among them. 

BLANKETING:  One that covers a group or class of things or properties instead of one or more things mentioned individually, as where a mortgage secures various debts as a group, or subjects a group or class of different pieces of property to one general lien.  BLANKET STITCH Blanket stitch.  A buttonhole stitch worked wide apart on the edge of material, as blankets, too thick to hem. 

BLANKNESS:  The state of being blank. 

BLANQUETTE:  A white fricassee. 

BLANQUILLO:  A large fish of Florida and the W. Indies (Caulolatilus chrysops). It is red, marked with yellow. 

BLARE:  To sound loudly and somewhat harshly. "The trumpet blared." Tennyson. 

BLARE:  To cause to sound like the blare of a trumpet; to proclaim loudly. To blare its own interpretation. Tennyson. 

BLARE:  The harsh noise of a trumpet; a loud and somewhat harsh noise, like the blast of a trumpet; a roar or bellowing. With blare of bugle, clamor of men. Tennyson. His ears are stunned with the thunder's blare. J. R. Drake. 

BLARNEY:  Smooth, wheedling talk; flattery. [Colloq.] Blarney stone, a stone in Blarney castle, Ireland, said to make those who kiss it proficient in the use of blarney. 

BLARNEY:  To influence by blarney; to wheedle with smooth talk; to make or accomplish by blarney. "Blarneyed the landlord." Irving. Had blarneyed his way from Long Island. S. G. Goodrich. 

BLASE:  Having the sensibilities deadened by excess or frequency of enjoyment; sated or surfeited with pleasure; used up. 

BLASPHEME:  To utter blasphemy. He that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness. Mark iii. 29. 

BLASPHEMER:  One who blasphemes. And each blasphemer quite escape the rod, Because the insult's not on man, but God Pope. 

BLASPHEMOUS:  Speaking or writing blasphemy; uttering or exhibiting anything impiously irreverent; profane; as, a blasphemous person; containing blasphemy; as, a blasphemous book; a blasphemous caricature. "Blasphemous publications." Porteus. Nor from the Holy One of Heaven Refrained his tongue blasphemous. Milton.  Note: Formerly this word was accented on the second syllable, as in the above example. 

BLASPHEMOUSLY:  In a blasphemous manner. 

BLASPHEMY:  A suffix or terminal formative, used principally in biological terms, and signifying growth, formation; as, bioblast, epiblast, mesoblast, etc. 

BLASTEMA:  The structureless, protoplasmic tissue of the embryo; the primitive basis of an organ yet unformed, from which it grows. 

BLASTEMAL:  Relating to the blastema; rudimentary. 

BLASTEMATIC:  Connected with, or proceeding from, the blastema; blastemal. 

BLASTER:  One who, or that which, blasts or destroys. 

BLASTIDE:  A small, clear space in the segments of the ovum, the precursor of the nucleus. 

BLASTING:  A lamp provided with some arrangement for intensifying combustion by means of a blast. 

BLASTMENT:  A sudden stroke or injury produced by some destructive cause. [Obs.] Shak. 

BLASTOCARPOUS:  Germinating inside the pericarp, as the mangrove. Brande & C. 

BLASTOCOELE:  The cavity of the blastosphere, or segmentation cavity. 

BLASTOCYST:  The germinal vesicle. 

BLASTODERM:  The germinal membrane in an ovum, from which the embryo is developed.  BLASTODERMATIC; BLASTODERMIC Blas`to*der*mat"ic, Blas`to*der"mic, a.  Of or pertaining to the blastoderm. 

BLASTOGENESIS:  Multiplication or increase by gemmation or budding. 

BLASTOID:  One of the Blastoidea. 

BLASTOIDEA:  One of the divisions of Crinoidea found fossil in paleozoic rocks; pentremites. They are so named on account of their budlike form. 

BLASTOMERE:  One of the segments first formed by the division of the ovum. Balfour.  BLASTOPHORAL; BLASTOPHORIC Blas`toph"o*ral, Blas`to*phor"ic, a.  Relating to the blastophore. 

BLASTOPHORE:  That portion of the spermatospore which is not converted into spermatoblasts, but carries them. 

BLASTOPORE:  The pore or opening leading into the cavity of invagination, or archenteron.  Note: [See Illust. of Invagination.] Balfour. 

BLASTOSPHERE:  The hollow globe or sphere formed by the arrangement of the blastomeres on the periphery of an impregnated ovum.  Note: [See Illust. of Invagination.] 

BLASTOSTYLE:  In certain hydroids, an imperfect zooid, whose special function is to produce medusoid buds. See Hydroidea, and Athecata.  BLAST PIPE Blast" pipe`.  The exhaust pipe of a steam engine, or any pipe delivering steam or air, when so constructed as to cause a blast. 

BLASTULA:  That stage in the development of the ovum in which the outer cells of the morula become more defined and form the blastoderm. 

BLASTULE:  Same as Blastula. 

BLAT:  To cry, as a calf or sheep; to bleat; to make a senseless noise; to talk inconsiderately. [Low] 

BLAT:  To utter inconsiderately. [Low] If I have anything on my mind, I have to blat it right out. W. D. Howells. 

BLATANCY:  Blatant quality. 

BLATANT:  Bellowing, as a calf; bawling; brawling; clamoring; disagreeably clamorous; sounding loudly and harshly. "Harsh and blatant tone." R. H. Dana. A monster, which the blatant beast men call. Spenser. Glory, that blatant word, which haunts some military minds like the bray of the trumpet. W. Irving. 

BLATANTLY:  In a blatant manner. 

BLATHER:  To talk foolishly, or nonsensically.  G. Eliot. 

BLATHER:  Voluble, foolish, or nonsensical talk; -- often in the pl. Hall Caine. 

BLATHERSKITE:  A blustering, talkative fellow. [Local slang, U. S.] Barllett. 

BLATTER:  To prate; to babble; to rail; to make a senseless noise; to patter. [Archaic] "The rain blattered." Jeffrey. They procured . . . preachers to blatter against me, . . . so that they had place and time to belie me shamefully. Latimer. 

BLATTERATION:  Blattering. 

BLATTERER:  One who blatters; a babbler; a noisy, blustering boaster. 

BLATTERING:  Senseless babble or boasting. 

BLATTEROON:  A senseless babbler or boaster. [Obs.] "I hate such blatteroons." Howell. 

BLAUBOK:  The blue buck. See Blue buck, under Blue. 

BLAY:  A fish. See Bleak, n. 

BLAZE:  A white spot on the forehead of a horse.  5. A spot made on trees by chipping off a piece of the bark, usually as a surveyor's mark. Three blazes in a perpendicular line on the same tree indicating a legislative road, the single blaze a settlement or neighborhood road. Carlton. In a blaze, on fire; burning with a flame; filled with, giving, or reflecting light; excited or exasperated.  -- Like blazes, furiously; rapidly. [Low] "The horses did along like blazes tear." Poem in Essex dialect.  Note: In low language in the U. S., blazes is frequently used of something extreme or excessive, especially of something very bad; as, blue as blazes. Neal.  Syn.  -- Blaze, Flame. A blaze and a flame are both produced by burning gas. In blaze the idea of light rapidly evolved is prominent, with or without heat; as, the blaze of the sun or of a meteor. Flame includes a stronger notion of heat; as, he perished in the flames. 

BLAZE:  To blazon. [Obs.] Peacham. 

BLAZER:  One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad. "Blazers of crime." Spenser. 

BLAZING:  Burning with a blaze; as, a blazing fire; blazing torches. Sir W. Scott. Blazing star. (a) A comet. [Obs.] (b) A brilliant center of attraction. (c) (Bot.) A name given to several plants; as, to Chamælirium luteum of the Lily family; Liatris squarrosa; and Aletris farinosa, called also colicroot and star grass. 

BLAZON:  To describe in proper terms (the figures of heraldic devices); also, to delineate (armorial bearings); to emblazon. The coat of , arms, which I am not herald enough to blazon into English. Addison. 

BLAZON:  To shine; to be conspicuous. [R.] 

BLAZONER:  One who gives publicity, proclaims, or blazons; esp., one who blazons coats of arms; a herald. Burke. 

BLAZONMENT:  The act or blazoning; blazoning; emblazonment. 

BLEA:  The part of a tree which lies immediately under the bark; the alburnum or sapwood. 

BLEABERRY:  See Blaeberry. 

BLEACH:  To make white, or whiter; to remove the color, or stains, from; to blanch; to whiten. The destruction of the coloring matters attached to the bodies to be bleached is effected either by the action of the air and light, of chlorine, or of sulphurous acid. Ure. Immortal liberty, whose look sublime Hath bleached the tyrant's cheek in every varying clime. Smollett. 

BLEACH:  To grow white or lose color; to whiten. 

BLEACHED:  Whitened; make white. Let their bleached bones, and blood's unbleaching stain, Long mark the battlefield with hideous awe. Byron. 

BLEACHER:  One who whitens, or whose occupation is to whiten, by bleaching. 

BLEACHERY:  A place or an establishment where bleaching is done. 

BLEACHING:  The act or process of whitening, by removing color or stains; esp. the process of whitening fabrics by chemical agents. Ure. Bleaching powder, a powder for bleaching, consisting of chloride of lime, or some other chemical or chemicals. 

BLEAK:  A small European river fish (Leuciscus alburnus), of the family Cyprinidæ; the blay. [Written also blick.]  Note: The silvery pigment lining the scales of the bleak is used in the manufacture of artificial pearls. Baird. 

BLEAKY:  Bleak. [Obs.] Dryden. 

BLEAR:  To make somewhat sore or watery, as the eyes; to dim, or blur, as the sight. Figuratively: To obscure (mental or moral perception); to blind; to hoodwink. That tickling rheums Should ever tease the lungs and blear the sight. Cowper. To blear the eye of, to deceive; to impose upon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BLEARED:  Dimmed, as by a watery humor; affected with rheum.  -- Blear"ed*ness (, n. Dardanian wives, With bleared visages, come forth to view The issue of the exploit. Shak. 

BLEAREYE:  A disease of the eyelids, consisting in chronic inflammation of the margins, with a gummy secretion of sebaceous matter. Dunglison.  BLEAR-EYED Blear"-eyed`, a.  1. Having sore eyes; having the eyes dim with rheum; dim-sighted. The blear-eyed Crispin. Drant.  2. Lacking in perception or penetration; short-sighted; as, a blear- eyed bigot. 

BLEAREYEDNESS:  The state of being blear-eyed. 

BLEARY:  Somewhat blear. 

BLEAT:  To make the noise of, or one like that of, a sheep; to cry like a sheep or calf. Then suddenly was heard along the main, To low the ox, to bleat the woolly train. Pope The ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baas, will never answer a calf when he bleats. Shak. 

BLEAT:  A plaintive cry of, or like that of, a sheep. The bleat of fleecy sheep. Chapman's Homer. 

BLEATER:  One who bleats; a sheep. In cold, stiff soils the bleaters oft complain Of gouty ails. Dyer. 

BLEATING:  Crying as a sheep does. Then came the shepherd back with his bleating flocks from the seaside. Longfellow. 

BLEATING:  The cry of, or as of, a sheep. Chapman. 

BLEB:  A large vesicle or bulla, usually containing a serous fluid; a blister; a bubble, as in water, glass, etc. Arsenic abounds with air blebs. Kirwan. 

BLEBBY:  Containing blebs, or characterized by blebs; as, blebby glass.  BLECK; BLEK Bleck, Blek, v. t.  To blacken; also, to defile. [Obs. or Dial.] Wyclif. 

BLED:  imp. & p. p. of Bleed. 

BLEE:  Complexion; color; hue; likeness; form. [Archaic] For him which is so bright of blee. Lament. of Mary Magd. That boy has a strong blee of his father. Forby. 

BLEEDING:  Emitting, or appearing to emit, blood or sap, etc.; also, expressing anguish or compassion. 

BLEEDING:  A running or issuing of blood, as from the nose or a wound; a hemorrhage; the operation of letting blood, as in surgery; a drawing or running of sap from a tree or plant. 

BLEMISH:  Any mark of deformity or injury, whether physical or moral; anything; that diminishes beauty, or renders imperfect that which is otherwise well formed; that which impairs reputation. He shall take two he lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish. Lev. xiv. 10. The reliefs of an envious man are those little blemishes and imperfections that discover themselves in an illustrious character. Spectator.  Syn.  -- Spot; speck; flaw; deformity; stain; defect; fault; taint; reproach; dishonor; imputation; disgrace. 

BLEMISHLESS:  Without blemish; spotless. A life in all so blemishless. Feltham. 

BLEMISHMENT:  The state of being blemished; blemish; disgrace; damage; impairment. For dread of blame and honor's blemishment. Spenser. 

BLENCH:  A looking aside or askance. [Obs.] These blenches gave my heart another youth. Shak. 

BLENCH:  To grow or make pale. Barbour. 

BLENCHER:  See Blanch holding. 

BLEND:  To mingle; to mix; to unite intimately; to pass or shade insensibly into each other, as colors. There is a tone of solemn and sacred feeling that blends with our conviviality. Irving. 

BLEND:  A thorough mixture of one thing with another, as color, tint, etc., into another, so that it cannot be known where one ends or the other begins. 

BLEND:  To make blind, literally or figuratively; to dazzle; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BLENDER:  One who, or that which, blends; an instrument, as a brush, used in blending. 

BLENDING:  The method of laying on different tints so that they may mingle together while wet, and shade into each other insensibly. Weale. 

BLENDOUS:  Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, blende. 

BLENDWATER:  A distemper incident to cattle, in which their livers are affected. Crabb.  BLENHEIM SPANIEL Blen"heim span"iel. Etym: [So called from Blenheim House, the seat of the duke of Marlborough, in England.]  A small variety of spaniel, kept as a pet. 

BLENK:  To blink; to shine; to look. [Obs.]  BLENNIOID; BLENNIID Blen"ni*oid, Blen"ni*id, a. Etym: [Blenny + -oid] (Zoöl.)  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the blennies. 

BLENNOGENOUS:  Generating mucus. 

BLENNY:  A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidæ; -- so called from its coating of mucus. The species are numerous. 

BLENT:  Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained. Rider and horse, friend, foe, in one red burial blent. Byron. 

BLENT:  Blinded. Also (Chaucer), 3d sing. pres. Blindeth. [Obs.] 

BLEPHARITIS:  Inflammation of the eyelids. -- Bleph`a*rit"ic (#), a. 

BLESBOK:  A South African antelope (Alcelaphus albifrons), having a large white spot on the forehead. 

BLESSED:  Beatified.  6. Used euphemistically, ironically, or intensively. Not a blessed man came to set her [a boat] free. R. D. Blackmore. 

BLESSEDLY:  Happily; fortunately; joyfully. We shall blessedly meet again never to depart. Sir P. Sidney. 

BLESSEDNESS:  The state of being blessed; happiness; felicity; bliss; heavenly joys; the favor of God. The assurance of a future blessedness. Tillotson. Single blessedness, the unmarried state. "Grows, lives, and dies in single blessedness." Shak.  Syn.  -- Delight; beatitude; ecstasy. See Happiness.  BLESSED THISTLE Bless"ed this"tle.  See under Thistle. 

BLESSER:  One who blesses; one who bestows or invokes a blessing. 

BLESSING:  A gift. [A Hebraism] Gen. xxxiii. 11.  5. Grateful praise or worship. 

BLEST:  Blessed. "This patriarch blest." Milton. White these blest sounds my ravished ear assail. Trumbull. 

BLET:  A form of decay in fruit which is overripe. 

BLETONISM:  The supposed faculty of perceiving subterraneous springs and currents by sensation; -- so called from one Bleton, of France. 

BLETTING:  A form of decay seen in fleshy, overripe fruit. Lindley. 

BLEW:  of Blow. 

BLEYME:  An inflammation in the foot of a horse, between the sole and the bone. [Obs.] 

BLEYNTE:  of Blench. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BLICKEY:  A tin dinner pail. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 

BLIGHT:  To be affected by blight; to blast; as, this vine never blights. 

BLIGHT:  A downy species of aphis, or plant louse, destructive to fruit trees, infesting both the roots and branches; -- also applied to several other injurious insects.  5. pl.  A rashlike eruption on the human skin. [U. S.] 

BLIGHTING:  Causing blight. 

BLIGHTINGLY:  So as to cause blight.  BLIMBI; BLIMBING Blim"bi, Blim"bing, n.  See Bilimbi, etc. 

BLIN:  To stop; to cease; to desist. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BLIN:  Cessation; end. [Obs.] 

BLIND:  Abortive; failing to produce flowers or fruit; as, blind buds; blind flowers. Blind alley, an alley closed at one end; a cul-de-sac.  -- Blind axle, an axle which turns but does not communicate motion. Knight.  -- Blind beetle, one of the insects apt to fly against people, esp. at night.  -- Blind cat (Zoöl.), a species of catfish (Gronias nigrolabris), nearly destitute of eyes, living in caverns in Pennsylvania.  -- Blind coal, coal that burns without flame; anthracite coal. Simmonds.  -- Blind door, Blind window, an imitation of a door or window, without an opening for passage or light. See Blank door or window, under Blank, a.  -- Blind level (Mining), a level or drainage gallery which has a vertical shaft at each end, and acts as an inverted siphon. Knight.  -- Blind nettle (Bot.), dead nettle. See Dead nettle, under Dead.  -- Blind shell (Gunnery), a shell containing no charge, or one that does not explode.  -- Blind side, the side which is most easily assailed; a weak or unguarded side; the side on which one is least able or disposed to see danger. Swift.  -- Blind snake (Zoöl.), a small, harmless, burrowing snake, of the family Typhlopidæ, with rudimentary eyes.  -- Blind spot (Anat.), the point in the retina of the eye where the optic nerve enters, and which is insensible to light.  -- Blind tooling, in bookbinding and leather work, the indented impression of heated tools, without gilding; -- called also blank tooling, and blind blocking.  -- Blind wall, a wall without an opening; a blank wall. 

BLIND:  A blindage. See Blindage.  4. A halting place. [Obs.] Dryden.  BLIND; BLINDE Blind, Blinde, n.  See Blende. 

BLINDAGE:  A cover or protection for an advanced trench or approach, formed of fascines and earth supported by a framework. 

BLINDER:  One of the leather screens on a bridle, to hinder a horse from seeing objects at the side; a blinker. 

BLINDFISH:  A small fish (Amblyopsis spelæus) destitute of eyes, found in the waters of the Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky. Related fishes from other caves take the same name. 

BLINDFOLD:  To cover the eyes of, as with a bandage; to hinder from seeing. And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face. Luke xxii. 64. 

BLINDFOLD:  Having the eyes covered; blinded; having the mental eye darkened. Hence: Heedless; reckless; as, blindfold zeal; blindfold fury. Fate's blindfold reign the atheist loudly owns. Dryden. 

BLINDING:  Making blind or as if blind; depriving of sight or of understanding; obscuring; as, blinding tears; blinding snow. 

BLINDING:  A thin coating of sand and fine gravel over a newly paved road. See Blind, v. t., 4. 

BLINDLY:  Without sight, discernment, or understanding; without thought, investigation, knowledge, or purpose of one's own. By his imperious mistress blindly led. Dryden.  BLINDMAN'S BUFF Blind"man's buff" (. Etym: [See Buff a buffet.]  A play in which one person is blindfolded, and tries to catch some one of the company and tell who it is. Surely he fancies I play at blindman's buff with him, for he thinks I never have my eyes open. Stillingfleet.  BLINDMAN'S HOLIDAY Blind`man's hol"i*day.  The time between daylight and candle light. [Humorous] 

BLINDNESS:  State or condition of being blind, literally or figuratively. Darwin. Color blindness, inability to distinguish certain color. See Daltonism.  BLIND READER Blind reader.  A post-office clerk whose duty is to decipher obscure addresses. 

BLINDSTORY:  The triforium as opposed to the clearstory. 

BLINDWORM:  A small, burrowing, snakelike, limbless lizard (Anguis fragilis), with minute eyes, popularly believed to be blind; the slowworm; -- formerly a name for the adder. Newts and blindworms do no wrong. Shak. 

BLINK:  The dazzling whiteness about the horizon caused by the reflection of light from fields of ice at sea; ice blink.  4. pl. Etym: [Cf. Blencher.] (Sporting)  Boughs cast where deer are to pass, to turn or check them. [Prov. Eng.] 

BLINKARD:  Beer kept unbroached until it is sharp. Crabb. 

BLINKER:  A kind of goggles, used to protect the eyes form glare, etc.  BLINK-EYED Blink"-eyed` (, a.  Habitually winking. Marlowe. 

BLIRT:  A gust of wind and rain. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

BLISS:  Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree of happiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy. An then at last our bliss Full and perfect is. Milton.  Syn.  -- Blessedness; felicity; beatitude; happiness; joy; enjoyment. See Happiness. 

BLISSFUL:  Full of, characterized by, or causing, joy and felicity; happy in the highest degree. "Blissful solitude." Milton.  -- Bliss"ful*ly, adv.  -- Bliss"ful*ness, n. 

BLISSLESS:  Destitute of bliss. Sir P. Sidney. 

BLISSOM:  To be lustful; to be lascivious. [Obs.] 

BLISSOM:  Lascivious; also, in heat; -- said of ewes. 

BLISTER:  To be affected with a blister or blisters; to have a blister form on. Let my tongue blister. Shak. 

BLISTERY:  Full of blisters. Hooker. 

BLITE:  A genus of herbs (Blitum) with a fleshy calyx. Blitum capitatum is the strawberry blite. 

BLITHE:  Gay; merry; sprightly; joyous; glad; cheerful; as, a blithe spirit. The blithe sounds of festal music. Prescott. A daughter fair, So buxom, blithe, and debonair. Milton. 

BLITHEFUL:  Gay; full of gayety; joyous. 

BLITHELY:  In a blithe manner. 

BLITHENESS:  The state of being blithe. Chaucer. 

BLITHESOME:  Cheery; gay; merry. The blithesome sounds of wassail gay. Sir W. Scott. -- Blithe"some*ly, adv.  -- Blithe"some*ness, n. 

BLIVE:  Quickly; forthwith. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BLIZZARD:  A gale of piercingly cold wind, usually accompanied with fine and blinding snow; a furious blast. [U. S.] 

BLOAT:  To grow turgid as by effusion of liquid in the cellular tissue; to puff out; to swell. Arbuthnot. 

BLOAT:  Bloated. [R.] Shak. 

BLOAT:  A term of contempt for a worthless, dissipated fellow. [Slang] 

BLOAT:  To dry (herrings) in smoke. See Blote. 

BLOATED:  Distended beyond the natural or usual size, as by the presence of water, serum, etc.; turgid; swollen; as, a bloated face. Also, puffed up with pride; pompous. 

BLOATEDNESS:  The state of being bloated. 

BLOATER:  The common herring, esp. when of large size, smoked, and half dried; -- called also bloat herring. 

BLOB:  A small fresh-water fish (Uranidea Richardsoni); the miller's thumb. 

BLOBBER:  A bubble; blubber. [Low] T. Carew. Blobber lip, a thick, protruding lip. His blobber lips and beetle brows commend. Dryden.  BLOBBER-LIPPED Blob"ber-lipped`, a.  Having thick lips. "A blobber-lipped shell." Grew. 

BLOCAGE:  The roughest and cheapest sort of rubblework, in masonry. 

BLOCK:  The perch on which a bird of prey is kept.  8. Any obstruction, or cause of obstruction; a stop; a hindrance; an obstacle; as, a block in the way.  9. A piece of box or other wood for engravers' work.  10. (Print.)  A piece of hard wood (as mahogany or cherry) on which a stereotype or electrotype plate is mounted to make it type high.  11. A blockhead; a stupid fellow; a dolt. [Obs.] What a block art thou ! Shak.  12. A section of a railroad where the block system is used. See Block system, below. A block of shares (Stock Exchange), a large number of shares in a stock company, sold in a lump. Bartlett.  -- Block printing. (a) A mode of printing (common in China and Japan) from engraved boards by means of a sheet of paper laid on the linked surface and rubbed with a brush. S. W. Williams. (b) A method of printing cotton cloth and paper hangings with colors, by pressing them upon an engraved surface coated with coloring matter.  -- Block system on railways, a system by which the track is divided into sections of three or four miles, and trains are so run by the guidance of electric signals that no train enters a section or block before the preceding train has left it. 

BLOCKADER:  A vessel employed in blockading. 

BLOCKAGE:  The act of blocking up; the state of being blocked up.  BLOCK BOOK Block" book` (.  A book printed from engraved wooden blocks instead of movable types.  BLOCK CHAIN Block chain. (Mach.)  A chain in which the alternate links are broad blocks connected by thin side links pivoted to the ends of the blocks, used with sprocket wheels to transmit power, as in a bicycle. 

BLOCKHEAD:  A stupid fellow; a dolt; a person deficient in understanding. The bookful blockhead, ignorantly read, With loads of learned lumber in his head. Pope. 

BLOCKHEADED:  Stupid; dull. 

BLOCKHEADISM:  That which characterizes a blockhead; stupidity. Carlyle. 

BLOCKHOUSE:  An edifice or structure of heavy timbers or logs for military defense, having its sides loopholed for musketry, and often an upper story projecting over the lower, or so placed upon it as to have its sides make an angle wit the sides of the lower story, thus enabling the defenders to fire downward, and in all directions; -- formerly much used in America and Germany.  2. A house of squared logs. [West. & South. U. S.] 

BLOCKING:  The finishing course of a wall showing above a cornice. 

BLOCKISH:  Like a block; deficient in understanding; stupid; dull. "Blockish Ajax." Shak.  -- Block"ish*ly, adv.  -- Block"ish*ness, n. 

BLOCKLIKE:  Like a block; stupid.  BLOCK SIGNAL Block signal. (Railroads)  One of the danger signals or safety signals which guide the movement of trains in a block system. The signal is often so coupled with a switch that act of opening or closing the switch operates the signal also.  BLOCK SYSTEM Block system. (Railroads)  A system by which the track is divided into short sections, as of three or four miles, and trains are so run by the guidance of electric, or combined electric and pneumatic, signals that no train enters a section or block until the preceding train has left it, as in absolute blocking, or that a train may be allowed to follow another into a block as long as it proceeds with excessive caution, as in permissive blocking.  BLOCK TIN Block" tin` (.  See under Tin. 

BLOEDITE:  A hydrous sulphate of magnesium and sodium. 

BLOMARY:  See Bloomery.  BLONCKET; BLONKET Blonc"ket, Blon"ket, a. Etym: [OF. blanquet whitish, dim. of blanc white. Cf. Blanket.]  Gray; bluish gray. [Obs.] Our bloncket liveries been all too sad. Spenser.  BLOND; BLONDE Blond, Blonde, a. Etym: [F., fair, light, of uncertain origin; cf. AS. blonden-feax gray-haired, old, prop. blended-haired, as a mixture of white and brown or black. See Blend, v. t. ]  Of a fair color; light-colored; as, blond hair; a blond complexion. 

BLONDE:  A kind of silk lace originally of the color of raw silk, now sometimes dyed; -- called also blond lace.  BLOND METAL Blond" met`al.  A variety of clay ironstone, in Staffordshire, England, used for making tools. 

BLONDNESS:  The state of being blond. G. Eliot. 

BLOOD:  Descent from parents of recognized breed; excellence or purity of breed.  Note: In stock breeding half blood is descent showing one half only of pure breed. Blue blood, full blood, or warm blood, is the same as blood.  5. The fleshy nature of man. Nor gives it satisfaction to our blood. Shak.  6. The shedding of blood; the taking of life, murder; manslaughter; destruction. So wills the fierce, avenging sprite, Till blood for blood atones. Hood.  7. A bloodthirsty or murderous disposition. [R.] He was a thing of blood, whose every motion Was timed with dying cries. Shak.  8. Temper of mind; disposition; state of the passions; -- as if the blood were the seat of emotions. When you perceive his blood inclined to mirth. Shak.  Note: Often, in this sense, accompanied with bad, cold, warm, or other qualifying word. Thus, to commit an act in cold blood, is to do it deliberately, and without sudden passion; to do it in bad blood, is to do it in anger. Warm blood denotes a temper inflamed or irritated. To warm or heat the blood is to excite the passions. Qualified by up, excited feeling or passion is signified; as, my blood was up.  9. A man of fire or spirit; a fiery spark; a gay, showy man; a rake. Seest thou not . . . how giddily 'a turns about all the hot bloods between fourteen and five and thirty Shak. It was the morning costume of a dandy or blood. Thackeray.  10. The juice of anything, especially if red. He washed . . . his clothes in the blood of grapes. Gen. xiix. 11.  Note: Blood is often used as an adjective, and as the first part of self-explaining compound words; as, blood-bespotted, blood-bought, blood-curdling, blood-dyed, blood-red, blood-spilling, blood-stained, blood-warm, blood-won. Blood baptism (Eccl. Hist.), the martyrdom of those who had not been baptized. They were considered as baptized in blood, and this was regarded as a full substitute for literal baptism.  -- Blood blister, a blister or bleb containing blood or bloody serum, usually caused by an injury.  -- Blood brother, brother by blood or birth.  -- Blood clam (Zoöl.), a bivalve mollusk of the genus Arca and allied genera, esp. Argina pexata of the American coast. So named from the color of its flesh.  -- Blood corpuscle. See Corpuscle.  -- Blood crystal (Physiol.), one of the crystals formed by the separation in a crystalline form of the hæmoglobin of the red blood corpuscles; hæmatocrystallin. All blood does not yield blood crystals.  -- Blood heat, heat equal to the temperature of human blood, or about 98½ º Fahr.  -- Blood horse, a horse whose blood or lineage is derived from the purest and most highly prized origin or stock.  -- Blood money. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Blood orange, an orange with dark red pulp.  -- Blood poisoning (Med.), a morbid state of the blood caused by the introduction of poisonous or infective matters from without, or the absorption or retention of such as are produced in the body itself; toxæmia.  -- Blood pudding, a pudding made of blood and other materials.  -- Blood relation, one connected by blood or descent.  -- Blood spavin. See under Spavin.  -- Blood vessel. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Blue blood, the blood of noble or aristocratic families, which, according to a Spanish prover , has in it a tinge of blue; -- hence, a member of an old and aristocratic family.  -- Flesh and blood. (a) A blood relation, esp. a child. (b) Human nature.  -- In blood (Hunting), in a state of perfect health and vigor. Shak.  -- To let blood. See under Let.  -- Prince of the blood, the son of a sovereign, or the issue of a royal family. The sons, brothers, and uncles of the sovereign are styled princes of the blood royal; and the daughters, sisters, and aunts are princesses of the blood royal. 

BLOODBIRD:  An Australian honeysucker (Myzomela sanguineolata); -- so called from the bright red color of the male bird.  BLOOD-BOLTERED Blood"-bol`tered, a. Etym: [Blood + Prov. E. bolter to mat in tufts. Cf. Balter.]  Having the hair matted with clotted blood. [Obs. & R.] The blood-boltered Banquo smiles upon me. Shak. 

BLOODED:  Having pure blood, or a large admixture or pure blood; of approved breed; of the best stock.  Note: Used also in composition in phrases indicating a particular condition or quality of blood; as, cold-blooded; warm-blooded. 

BLOODFLOWER:  A genus of bulbous plants, natives of Southern Africa, named Hæmanthus, of the Amaryllis family. The juice of H. toxicarius is used by the Hottentots to poison their arrows. 

BLOODGUILTY:  Guilty of murder or bloodshed. "A bloodguilty life." Fairfax.  -- Blood"guilt`i*ness (, n.  -- Blood"guilt`less, a. 

BLOODHOUND:  A breed of large and powerful dogs, with long, smooth, and pendulous ears, and remarkable for acuteness of smell. It is employed to recover game or prey which has escaped wounded from a hunter, and for tracking criminals. Formerly it was used for pursuing runaway slaves. Other varieties of dog are often used for the same purpose and go by the same name. The Cuban bloodhound is said to be a variety of the mastiff. 

BLOODILY:  In a bloody manner; cruelly; with a disposition to shed blood. 

BLOODLET:  bleed; to let blood. Arbuthnot. 

BLOODLETTER:  One who, or that which, lets blood; a phlebotomist. 

BLOODLETTING:  The act or process of letting blood or bleeding, as by opening a vein or artery, or by cupping or leeches; -- esp. applied to venesection.  BLOOD MONEY Blood" mon`ey.  1. Money paid to the next of kin of a person who has been killed by another.  2. Money obtained as the price, or at the cost, of another's life; -- said of a reward for supporting a capital charge, of money obtained for betraying a fugitive or for committing murder, or of money obtained from the sale of that which will destroy the purchaser. 

BLOODROOT:  A plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis), with a red root and red sap, and bearing a pretty, white flower in early spring; -- called also puccoon, redroot, bloodwort, tetterwort, turmeric, and Indian paint. It has acrid emetic properties, and the rootstock is used as a stimulant expectorant. See Sanguinaria.  Note: In England the name is given to the tormentil, once used as a remedy for dysentery. 

BLOODSHED:  The shedding or spilling of blood; slaughter; the act of shedding human blood, or taking life, as in war, riot, or murder. 

BLOODSHEDDER:  One who sheds blood; a manslayer; a murderer. 

BLOODSHEDDING:  Bloodshed. Shak. 

BLOODSHOT:  Red and inflamed; suffused with blood, or having the vessels turgid with blood, as when the conjunctiva is inflamed or irritated. His eyes were bloodshot, . . . and his hair disheveled. Dickens.  BLOOD-SHOTTEN Blood"-shot`ten, a.  Bloodshot. [Obs.] 

BLOODSTICK:  A piece of hard wood loaded at one end with lead, and used to strike the fleam into the vein. Youatt. 

BLOODSTROKE:  Loss of sensation and motion from hemorrhage or congestion in the brain. Dunglison. 

BLOODSUCKER:  Any animal that sucks blood; esp., the leech (Hirudo medicinalis), and related species.  2. One who sheds blood; a cruel, bloodthirsty man; one guilty of bloodshed; a murderer. [Obs.] Shak.  3. A hard and exacting master, landlord, or money lender; an extortioner. 

BLOODTHIRSTY:  Eager to shed blood; cruel; sanguinary; murderous.  -- Blood"thirst`i*ness (n. 

BLOODULF:  The European bullfinch.  BLOOD VESSEL Blood" ves`sel. (Anat.)  Any vessel or canal in which blood circulates in an animal, as an artery or vein.  BLOODWITE; BLOODWIT Blood"wite`, Blood"wit` (, n. Etym: [AS. bl; bl blood, + wite wite, fine.] (Anc. Law)  A fine or amercement paid as a composition for the shedding of blood; also, a riot wherein blood was spilled. 

BLOODWOOD:  A tree having the wood or the sap of the color of blood.  Note: Norfolk Island bloodwood is a euphorbiaceous tree (Baloghia lucida), from which the sap is collected for use as a plant. Various other trees have the name, chiefly on account of the color of the wood, as Gordonia Hæmatoxylon of Jamaica, and several species of Australian Eucalyptus; also the true logwood ( Hæmatoxylon campechianum). 

BLOODWORT:  A plant, Rumex sanguineus, or bloody-veined dock. The name is applied also to bloodroot (Sanguinaria Canadensis), and to an extensive order of plants (Hæmodoraceæ), the roots of many species of which contain a red coloring matter useful in dyeing. 

BLOODY:  To stain with blood. Overbury. 

BLOODYBONES:  A terrible bugbear.  BLOODY FLUX Blood"y flux`.  The dysentery, a disease in which the flux or discharge from the bowels has a mixture of blood. Arbuthnot.  BLOODY HAND Blood"y hand` (.  1. A hand stained with the blood of a deer, which, in the old forest laws of England, was sufficient evidence of a man's trespass in the forest against venison. Jacob.  2. (Her.)  A red hand, as in the arms of Ulster, which is now the distinguishing mark of a baronet of the United Kingdom.  BLOODY-MINDED Blood"y-mind"ed, a.  Having a cruel, ferocious disposition; bloodthirsty. Dryden.  BLOODY SWEAT Blood"y sweat` (.  A sweat accompanied by a discharge of blood; a disease, called sweating sickness, formerly prevalent in England and other countries. 

BLOOM:  A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals; as, the rose-red cobalt bloom. 

BLOOMARY:  See Bloomery. 

BLOOMERY:  A furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of blooms is made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron. 

BLOOMING:  The process of making blooms from the ore or from cast iron. 

BLOOMINGLY:  In a blooming manner. 

BLOOMINGNESS:  A blooming condition. 

BLOOMLESS:  Without bloom or flowers. Shelley. 

BLOOTH:  Bloom; a blossoming. [Prov. Eng.] All that blooth means heavy autumn work for him and his hands. T. Hardy. 

BLORE:  The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast. [Obs.] A most tempestuous blore. Chapman. 

BLOSMY:  Blossomy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BLOSSOMLESS:  Without blossoms. 

BLOSSOMY:  Full of blossoms; flowery. 

BLOT:  To take a blot; as, this paper blots easily. 

BLOTCH:  A large pustule, or a coarse eruption. Foul scurf and blotches him defile. Thomson. 

BLOTCHED:  Marked or covered with blotches. To give their blotched and blistered bodies ease. Drayton. 

BLOTCHY:  Having blotches. 

BLOTE:  To cure, as herrings, by salting and smoking them; to bloat. [Obs.] 

BLOTLESS:  Without blot. 

BLOTTER:  A wastebook, in which entries of transactions are made as they take place. 

BLOTTESQUE:  Characterized by blots or heavy touches; coarsely depicted; wanting in delineation. Ruskin.  BLOTTING PAPER Blot"ting pa`per.  A kind of thick, bibulous, unsized paper, used to absorb superfluous ink from freshly written manuscript, and thus prevent blots. 

BLOUSE:  A light, loose over-garment, like a smock frock, worn especially by workingmen in France; also, a loose coat of any material, as the undress uniform coat of the United States army. 

BLOW:  To flower; to blossom; to bloom. How blows the citron grove. Milton. 

BLOW:  To cause to blossom; to put forth (blossoms or flowers). The odorous banks, that blow Flowers of more mingled hue. Milton. 

BLOW:  A blossom; a flower; also, a state of blossoming; a mass of blossoms. "Such a blow of tulips." Tatler. 

BLOW:  A single heat or operation of the Bessemer converter. Raymond.  5. An egg, or a larva, deposited by a fly on or in flesh, or the act of depositing it. Chapman. 

BLOWBALL:  The downy seed head of a dandelion, which children delight to blow away. B. Jonson.  BLOWEN; BLOWESS Blow"en, Blow"ess, n.  A prostitute; a courtesan; a strumpet. [Low] Smart. 

BLOWER:  A device for producing a current of air; as: (a) A metal plate temporarily placed before the upper part of a grate or open fire. (b) A machine for producing an artificial blast or current of air by pressure, as for increasing the draft of a furnace, ventilating a building or shaft, cleansing gram, etc.  3. A blowing out or excessive discharge of gas from a hole or fissure in a mine.  4. The whale; -- so called by seamen, from the circumstance of its spouting up a column of water.  5. (Zoöl.)  A small fish of the Atlantic coast (Tetrodon turgidus); the puffer.  6. A braggart, or loud talker. [Slang] Bartlett. 

BLOWFLY:  Any species of fly of the genus Musca that deposits its eggs or young larvæ (called flyblows and maggots) upon meat or other animal products. 

BLOWGUN:  A tube, as of cane or reed, sometimes twelve feet long, through which an arrow or other projectile may be impelled by the force of the breath. It is a weapon much used by certain Indians of America and the West Indies; -- called also blowpipe, and blowtube. See Sumpitan. 

BLOWHOLE:  An air hole in a casting. 

BLOWN:  Opened; in blossom or having blossomed, as a flower. Shak.  BLOW-OFF Blow"-off` (, n.  1. A blowing off steam, water, etc.; -- Also, adj.  as, a blow-off cock or pipe.  2. An outburst of temper or excitement. [Colloq.]  BLOW-OUT Blow"-out` (, n.  The cleaning of the flues of a boiler from scale, etc., by a blast of steam. 

BLOWPOINT:  A child's game. [Obs.] 

BLOWSE:  See Blowze. 

BLOWTH:  A blossoming; a bloom. [Obs. or Archaic] "In the blowth and bud." Sir W. Raleigh. 

BLOWTUBE:  A long wrought iron tube, on the end of which the workman gathers a quantity of "metal" (melted glass), and through which he blows to expand or shape it; -- called also blowing tube, and blowpipe.  BLOW VALVE Blow" valve` (. (Mach.)  See Snifting valve. 

BLOWY:  Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland. 

BLOWZE:  A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench. [Obs.] Shak. 

BLOWZED:  Having high color from exposure to the weather; ruddy-faced; blowzy; disordered. Huge women blowzed with health and wind. Tennyson. 

BLOWZY:  Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy. 

BLUB:  To swell; to puff out, as with weeping. [Obs.] 

BLUBBER:  A large sea nettle or medusa. 

BLUBBER:  To weep noisily, or so as to disfigure the face; to cry in a childish manner. She wept, she blubbered, and she tore her hair. Swift. 

BLUBBERED:  Swollen; turgid; as, a blubbered lip. Spenser. 

BLUBBERING:  The act of weeping noisily. He spake well save that his blubbering interrupted him. Winthrop. 

BLUCHER:  A kind of half boot, named from the Prussian general Blücher. Thackeray. 

BLUDGEON:  A short stick, with one end loaded, or thicker and heavier that the other, used as an offensive weapon. 

BLUE:  Low spirits; a fit of despondency; melancholy. [Colloq.] Berlin blue, Prussian blue.  -- Mineral blue. See under Mineral.  -- Prussian blue. See under Prussian. 

BLUE:  To make blue; to dye of a blue color; to make blue by heating, as metals, etc. 

BLUEBEARD:  The hero of a mediæval French nursery legend, who, leaving home, enjoined his young wife not to open a certain room in his castle. She entered it, and found the murdered bodies of his former wives.  -- Also used adjectively of a subject which it is forbidden to investigate. The Bluebeard chamber of his mind, into which no eye but his own must look. Carlyle. 

BLUEBERRY:  The berry of several species of Vaccinium, and ericaceous genus, differing from the American huckleberries in containing numerous minute seeds instead of ten nutlets. The commonest species are V. Pennsylvanicum and V. vacillans. V. corymbosum is the tall blueberry. 

BLUEBILL:  A duck of the genus Fuligula. Two American species (F. marila and F. affinis) are common. See Scaup duck. 

BLUEBIRD:  A small song bird (Sialia sialis), very common in the United States, and, in the north, one of the earliest to arrive in spring. The male is blue, with the breast reddish. It is related to the European robin. Pairy bluebird (Zoöl.), a brilliant Indian or East Indian bird of the genus Irena, of several species.  BLUE BONNET; BLUE-BONNET Blue" bon`net or Blue"-bon`net, n.  1. A broad, flat Scottish cap of blue woolen, or one waring such cap; a Scotchman.  2. (Bot.)  A plant. Same as Bluebottle.  3. (Zoöl.)  The European blue titmouse (Parus coeruleus); the bluecap.  BLUE BOOK Blue" book`.  1. A parliamentary publication, so called from its blue paper covers. [Eng.]  2. The United States official "Biennial Register." 

BLUEBOTTLE:  A plant (Centaurea cyanus) which grows in grain fields. It receives its name from its blue bottle-shaped flowers.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large and troublesome species of blowfly (Musca vomitoria). Its body is steel blue. 

BLUEBREAST:  A small European bird; the blue-throated warbler. 

BLUECOAT:  One dressed in blue, as a soldier, a sailor, a beadle, etc.  BLUE-EYE Blue"-eye`, n. (Zoöl.)  The blue-cheeked honeysucker of Australia.  BLUE-EYED Blue"-eyed`, a.  Having blue eyes.  BLUE-EYED GRASS Blue-eyed grass (Bot.)  a grasslike plant (Sisyrinchium anceps), with small flowers of a delicate blue color. 

BLUEFIN:  A species of whitefish (Coregonus nigripinnis) found in Lake Michigan. 

BLUEGOWN:  One of a class of paupers or pensioners, or licensed beggars, in Scotland, to whim annually on the king's birthday were distributed certain alms, including a blue gown; a beadsman.  BLUE GRASS Blue" grass`. (Bot.)  A species of grass (Poa compressa) with bluish green stems, valuable in thin gravelly soils; wire grass. Kentucky blue grass, a species of grass (Poa pratensis) which has running rootstocks and spreads rapidly. It is valuable as a pasture grass, as it endures both winter and drought better than other kinds, and is very nutritious.  BLUE-GRASS STATE Blue-grass State.  The Sate of Kentucky; -- a nickname alluding to the blue-grass region, where fine horses are bred.  BLUE HEN STATE Blue Hen State.  The State of Delaware; -- a popular sobriquet. It is said, though the story lacks proof, to have taken its origin from the insistence of a Delaware Revolutionary captain, named Caldwell, that no cock could be truly game unless the mother was a blue hen, whence Blue Hen's Chickens came to be a nickname for the people of Delaware.  BLUE JAY Blue" jay`. (Zoöl.)  The common jay of the United States (Cyanocitta, or Cyanura, cristata). The predominant color is bright blue.  BLUE-JOHN Blue"-john`, n.  A name given to fluor spar in Derbyshire, where it is used for ornamental purposes. 

BLUELY:  With a blue color. Swift. 

BLUENESS:  The quality of being blue; a blue color. Boyle. 

BLUENOSE:  A nickname for a Nova Scotian.  BLUENOSE; BLUENOSER Blue"nose`, Blue"nos*er, n.  A Nova Scotian; also, a Nova Scotian ship (called also Blue"nos`er); a Nova Scotian potato, etc. 

BLUEPOLL:  A kind of salmon (Salmo Cambricus) found in Wales. 

BLUEPRINT:  See under Print.  BLUE-SKYLAW Blue"-sky"law`.  A law enacted to provide for the regulation and supervision of investment companies in order to protect the public against companies that do not intend to do a fair and honest business and that offer investments that do not promise a fair return; -- so called because the promises made by some investment companies are as boundless or alluring as the blue sky, or, perhaps, because designed to clear away the clouds and fogs from the simple investor's horizon. [Colloq.] 

BLUESTOCKING:  The American avocet (Recurvirostra Americana). 

BLUESTOCKINGISM:  The character or manner of a bluestocking; female pedantry. [Colloq.] 

BLUETHROAT:  A singing bird of northern Europe and Asia (Cyanecula Suecica), related to the nightingales; -- called also blue-throated robin and blue-throated warbler. 

BLUETS:  A name given to several different species of plants having blue flowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus or bluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium.  BLUE-VEINED Blue"-veined` (, a.  Having blue veins or blue streaks. 

BLUEWING:  The blue-winged teal. See Teal. 

BLUEY:  ,a.Bluish. Southey. 

BLUFF:  To deter (an opponent) from taking the risk of betting on his hand of cards, as the bluffer does by betting heavily on his own hand although it may be of less value. [U. S.]  2. To frighten or deter from accomplishing a purpose by making a show of confidence in one's strength or resources; as, he bluffed me off. [Colloq.] 

BLUFF:  To act as in the game of bluff.  BLUFF-BOWED Bluff"-bowed` (, a. (Naut.)  Built with the stem nearly straight up and down. 

BLUFFER:  One who bluffs.  BLUFF-HEADED Bluff"-head`ed (, a. (Naut.)  Built with the stem nearly straight up and down. 

BLUFFNESS:  The quality or state of being bluff. 

BLUISH:  Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins. "Bluish mists." Dryden.  -- Blu"ish*ly, adv.  -- Blu"ish*ness, n. 

BLUNDERER:  One who is apt to blunder. 

BLUNDERHEAD:  A stupid, blundering fellow. 

BLUNDERING:  Characterized by blunders. 

BLUNDERINGLY:  In a blundering manner. 

BLUNGE:  To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay. 

BLUNGER:  A wooden blade with a cross handle, used for mi Tomlinson. 

BLUNGING:  The process of mixing clay in potteries with a blunger. Tomlinson. 

BLUNTISH:  Somewhat blunt.  -- Blunt"ish*ness, n. 

BLUNTLY:  In a blunt manner; coarsely; plainly; abruptly; without delicacy, or the usual forms of civility. Sometimes after bluntly giving his opinions, he would quietly lay himself asleep until the end of their deliberations. Jeffrey. 

BLUNTNESS:  Dull; stupid. Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanor! Shak. 

BLURRY:  Full of blurs; blurred. 

BLURT:  To utter suddenly and unadvisedly; to divulge inconsiderately; to ejaculate; -- commonly with out. Others . . . can not hold, but blurt out, those words which afterward they forced to eat. Hakewill. To blurt at, to speak contemptuously of. [Obs.] Shak. 

BLUSHER:  One that blushes. 

BLUSHET:  A modest girl. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BLUSHFUL:  Full of blushes. While from his ardent look the turning Spring Averts her blushful face. Thomson. 

BLUSHING:  Showing blushes; rosy red; having a warm and delicate color like some roses and other flowers; blooming; ruddy; roseate. The dappled pink and blushing rose. Prior. 

BLUSHING:  The act of turning red; the appearance of a reddish color or flush upon the cheeks. 

BLUSHINGLY:  In a blushing manner; with a blush or blushes; as, to answer or confess blushingly. 

BLUSHLESS:  Free from blushes; incapable of blushing; shameless; impudent. Vice now, secure, her blushless front shall raise. Dodsley. 

BLUSHY:  Like a blush; having the color of a blush; rosy. [R.] "A blushy color." Harvey. 

BLUSTER:  To utter, or do, with noisy violence; to force by blustering; to bully. He bloweth and blustereth out . . . his abominable blasphemy. Sir T. More. As if therewith he meant to bluster all princes into a perfect obedience to his commands. Fuller. 

BLUSTERER:  One who, or that which, blusters; a noisy swaggerer. 

BLUSTERINGLY:  In a blustering manner. 

BLUSTEROUS:  Inclined to bluster; given to blustering; blustering. Motley. 

BLUSTROUS:  Blusterous. Shak. 

BO:  An exclamation used to startle or frighten. [Spelt also boh and boo.] 

BOA:  A genus of large American serpents, including the boa constrictor, the emperor boa of Mexico (B. imperator), and the chevalier boa of Peru (B. eques).  Note: The name is also applied to related genera; as, the dog-headed boa (Xiphosoma caninum).  2. A long, round fur tippet; -- so called from its resemblance in shape to the boa constrictor.  BOA CONSTRICTOR Bo"a con*strict"or. Etym: [NL. See Boa, and Constrictor.] (Zoöl.)  A large and powerful serpent of tropical America, sometimes twenty or thirty feet long. See Illustration in Appendix.  Note: It has a succession of spots, alternately black and yellow, extending along the back. It kills its prey by constriction. The name is also loosely applied to other large serpents which crush their prey, particularly to those of the genus Python, found in Asia and Africa. 

BOANERGES:  Any declamatory and vociferous preacher or orator. 

BOAR:  The uncastrated male of swine; specifically, the wild hog. 

BOARD:  The stage in a theater; as, to go upon the boards, to enter upon the theatrical profession.  8. Etym: [In this use originally perh. a different word meaning border, margin; cf. D. boord, G. bord, shipboard, and G. borte trimming; also F. bord (fr. G.) the side of a ship. Cf. Border.]  The border or side of anything. (Naut.) (a) The side of a ship. "Now board to board the rival vessels row." Dryden. See On board, below. (b) The stretch which a ship makes in one tack.  Note: Board is much used adjectively or as the last part of a compound; as, fir board, clapboard, floor board, shipboard, sideboard, ironing board, chessboard, cardboard, pasteboard, seaboard; board measure. The American Board, a shortened form of "The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions" (the foreign missionary society of the American Congregational churches).  -- Bed and board. See under Bed.  -- Board and board (Naut.), side by side.  -- Board of control, six privy councilors formerly appointed to superintend the affairs of the British East Indies. Stormonth.  -- Board rule, a figured scale for finding without calculation the number of square feet in a board. Haldeman.  -- Board of trade, in England, a committee of the privy council appointed to superintend matters relating to trade. In the United States, a body of men appointed for the advancement and protection of their business interests; a chamber of commerce.  -- Board wages. (a) Food and lodging supplied as compensation for services; as, to work hard, and get only board wages. (b) Money wages which are barely sufficient to buy food and lodging. (c) A separate or special allowance of wages for the procurement of food, or food and lodging. Dryden.  -- By the board, over the board, or side. "The mast went by the board." Totten. Hence (Fig.), To go by the board, to suffer complete destruction or overthrow.  -- To enter on the boards, to have one's name inscribed on a board or tablet in a college as a student. [Cambridge, England.] "Having been entered on the boards of Trinity college." Hallam.  -- To make a good board (Naut.), to sail in a straight line when close-hauled; to lose little to leeward.  -- To make short boards, to tack frequently.  -- On board. (a) On shipboard; in a ship or a boat; on board of; as, I came on board early; to be on board ship. (b) In or into a railway car or train. [Colloq. U. S.] -- Returning board, a board empowered to canvass and make an official statement of the votes cast at an election. [U.S.] 

BOARD:  To go on board of, or enter, as a ship, whether in a hostile or a friendly way. You board an enemy to capture her, and a stranger to receive news or make a communication. Totten.  3. To enter, as a railway car. [Colloq. U. S.]  4. To furnish with regular meals, or with meals and lodgings, for compensation; to supply with daily meals.  5. To place at board, for compensation; as, to board one's horse at a livery stable. 

BOARD:  To obtain meals, or meals and lodgings, statedly for compensation; as, he boards at the hotel. We are several of us, gentlemen and ladies, who board in the same house. Spectator. 

BOARD:  To approach; to accost; to address; hence, to woo. [Obs.] I will board her, though she chide as loud As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack. Shak. 

BOARDABLE:  That can be boarded, as a ship. 

BOARDER:  One who boards a ship; one selected to board an enemy's ship. Totten. 

BOARDING:  The act of entering a ship, whether with a hostile or a friendly purpose. Both slain at one time, as they attempted the boarding of a frigate. Sir F. Drake.  2. The act of covering with boards; also, boards, collectively; or a covering made of boards.  3. The act of supplying, or the state of being supplied, with regular or specified meals, or with meals and lodgings, for pay. Boarding house, a house in which boarders are kept.  -- Boarding nettings (Naut.), a strong network of cords or ropes erected at the side of a ship to prevent an enemy from boarding it.  -- Boarding pike (Naut.), a pike used by sailors in boarding a vessel, or in repelling an attempt to board it. Totten.  -- Boarding school, a school in which pupils receive board and lodging as well as instruction. 

BOARISH:  Swinish; brutal; cruel. In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs. Shak. 

BOAST:  To dress, as a stone, with a broad chisel. Weale.  2. (Sculp.)  To shape roughly as a preparation for the finer work to follow; to cut to the general form required. 

BOASTANCE:  Boasting. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BOASTER:  One who boasts; a braggart. 

BOASTER:  A stone mason's broad-faced chisel. 

BOASTFUL:  Given to, or full of, boasting; inclined to boast; vaunting; vainglorious; self-praising.  -- Boast"ful*ly, adv.  -- Boast"ful*ness, n. 

BOASTING:  The act of glorying or vaunting; vainglorious speaking; ostentatious display. When boasting ends, then dignity begins. Young. 

BOASTINGLY:  Boastfully; with boasting. "He boastingly tells you." Burke. 

BOASTIVE:  Presumptuous. [R.] 

BOASTLESS:  Without boasting or ostentation. 

BOAT:  To go or row in a boat. I boated over, ran my craft aground. Tennyson. 

BOATAGE:  Conveyance by boat; also, a charge for such conveyance. 

BOATBILL:  An aquatic hemipterous insect of the genus Notonecta; -- so called from swimming on its back, which gives it the appearance of a little boat. Called also boat fly, boat insect, boatman, and water boatman. 

BOATFUL:  The quantity or amount that fills a boat. 

BOATHOUSE:  A house for sheltering boats. Half the latticed boathouse hides. Wordsworth. 

BOATION:  A crying out; a roaring; a bellowing; reverberation. [Obs.] The guns were heard . . . about a hundred Italian miles, in long boations. Derham. 

BOATMAN:  A boat bug. See Boat bug. 

BOATMANSHIP:  The art of managing a boat.  BOAT-SHAPED Boat"-shaped` (, a. (Bot.)  See Cymbiform.  BOAT SHELL Boat" shell` (. (Zoöl.) (a) A marine gastropod of the genus Crepidula. The species are numerous. It is so named from its form and interior deck. (b) A marine univalve shell of the genus Cymba. 

BOATSMAN:  A boatman. [Archaic] 

BOATSWAIN:  An officer who has charge of the boats, sails, rigging, colors, anchors, cables, cordage, etc., of a ship, and who also summons the crew, and performs other duties.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The jager gull. (b) The tropic bird. Boatswain's mate, an assistant of the boatswain. Totten.  BOAT-TAIL Boat"-tail`, n. (Zoöl.)  A large grackle or blackbird (Quiscalus major), found in the Southern United States. 

BOATWOMAN:  A woman who manages a boat. 

BOB:  A working beam.  8. A knot or short curl of hair; also, a bob wig. A plain brown bob he wore. Shenstone.  9. A peculiar mode of ringing changes on bells.  10. The refrain of a song. To bed, to bed, will be the bob of the song. L'Estrange.  11. A blow; a shake or jog; a rap, as with the fist.  12. A jeer or flout; a sharp jest or taunt; a trick. He that a fool doth very wisely hit, Doth very foolishly, although he smart, Not to seem senseless of the bob. Shak.  13. A shilling. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens. 

BOBAC:  The Poland marmot (Arctomys bobac). 

BOBANCE:  A boasting. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BOBBER:  One who, or that which, bobs. 

BOBBERY:  A squabble; a tumult; a noisy disturbance; as, to raise a bobbery. [Low] Halliwell. 

BOBBIN:  A fine cord or narrow braid.  5. (Elec.)  A cylindrical or spool-shaped coil or insulated wire, usually containing a core of soft iron which becomes magnetic when the wire is traversed by an electrical current. Bobbin and fly frame, a roving machine.  -- Bobbin lace, lace made on a pillow with bobbins; pillow lace. 

BOBBINET:  A kind of cotton lace which is wrought by machines, and not by hand. [Sometimes written bobbin net.]The English machine-made net is now confined to point net, warp net, and bobbin net, so called from the peculiar construction of the machines by which they are produced. Tomlinsom. 

BOBBINWORK:  Work woven with bobbins. 

BOBBISH:  Hearty; in good spirits. [Low, Eng.] Dickens. 

BOBBY:  A nickname for a policeman; -- from Sir Robert Peel, who remodeled the police force. See Peeler. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens.  BOB-CHERRY Bob"-cher`ry, n.  A play among children, in which a cherry, hung so as to bob against the mouth, is to be caught with the teeth. 

BOBFLY:  The fly at the end of the leader; an end fly. 

BOBOLINK:  An American singing bird (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). The male is black and white; the female is brown; -- called also, ricebird, reedbird, and Boblincoln. The happiest bird of our spring is the bobolink. W. Irving.  BOBSLED; BOBSLEIGH Bob"sled`, Bob"sleigh`, n.  A short sled, mostly used as one of a pair connected by a reach or coupling; also, the compound sled so formed. [U. S.] The long wagon body set on bobsleds. W. D. Howells. 

BOBSTAY:  A rope or chain to confine the bowsprit of a ship downward to the stem or cutwater; -- usually in the pl. 

BOBTAIL:  An animal (as a horse or dog) with a short tail. Rag, tag, and bobtail, the rabble. 

BOBTAIL:  Bobtailed. "Bobtail cur." Marryat. 

BOBTAILED:  Having the tail cut short, or naturally short; curtailed; as, a bobtailed horse or dog; a bobtailed coat. 

BOBWHITE:  The common qua(Colinus, or Ortyx, Virginianus); -- so called from its note.  BOB WIG Bob" wig` (.  A short wig with bobs or short curls; -- called also bobtail wig. Spectator. 

BOCAL:  A cylindrical glass vessel, with a large and short neck. 

BOCARDO:  A form of syllogism of which the first and third propositions are particular negatives, and the middle term a universal affirmative. Baroko and Bocardo have been stumbling blocks to the logicians. Bowen.  2. A prison; -- originally the name of the old north gate in Oxford, which was used as a prison. [Eng.] Latimer. 

BOCASINE:  A sort of fine buckram. 

BOCCA:  The round hole in the furnace of a glass manufactory through which the fused glass is taken out. Craig. 

BOCE:  A European fish (Box vulgaris), having a compressed body and bright colors; -- called also box, and bogue.  BOCK BEER Bock" beer` (. Etym: [G. bockbier; bock a buck + bier beer; -- said to be so named from its tendency to cause the drinker to caper like a goat.]  A strong beer, originally made in Bavaria. [Also written buck beer.] 

BOCKELET:  A kind of long-winged hawk; -- called also bockerel, and bockeret. [Obs.] 

BOCKEY:  A bowl or vessel made from a gourd. [Local, New York] Bartlett. 

BOCKING:  A coarse woolen fabric, used for floor cloths, to cover carpets, etc.; -- so called from the town of Bocking, in England, where it was first made. 

BOCKLAND:  See Bookland. 

BODDICE:  See Bodick. 

BODE:  To indicate by signs, as future events; to be the omen of; to portend to presage; to foreshow. A raven that bodes nothing but mischief. Goldsmith. Good onset bodes good end. Spenser. 

BODE:  To foreshow something; to augur. Whatever now The omen proved, it boded well to you. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To forebode; foreshadow; augur; betoken. 

BODE:  A messenger; a herald. Robertson. 

BODE:  A stop; a halting; delay. [Obs.] 

BODE:  Abode. There that night they bode. Tennyson. 

BODE:  of Bid. Bid or bidden. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BODEFUL:  Portentous; ominous. Carlyle. 

BODEMENT:  An omen; a prognostic. [Obs.] This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl Makes all these bodements. Shak. 

BODGE:  A botch; a patch. [Dial.] Whitlock. 

BODGE:  To botch; to mend clumsily; to patch. [Obs. or Dial.] 

BODGE:  See Budge.  BODHISAT; BODHISATTVA; BODHISATTWA Bo"dhi*sat,  Bo`dhi*satt"va, Bo`dhi*satt"wa, n. [Skr. bodhisattva (perh. through Pali bodhisatto); fr. bodhi knowledge, enlightenment + sattva being, essence.] (Buddhism)  One who has reached the highest degree of saintship, so that in his next incarnation he will be a Buddha, or savior of the world. -- Bo"dhi*sat`ship, n. 

BODIAN:  A large food fish (Diagramma lineatum), native of the East Indies. 

BODICED:  Wearing a bodice. Thackeray. 

BODIED:  Having a body; -- usually in composition; as, able-bodied. A doe . . . not altogether so fat, but very good flesh and good bodied. Hakluyt. 

BODILINESS:  Corporeality. Minsheu. 

BODING:  Foreshowing; presaging; ominous.  -- Bod"ing*ly, adv. 

BODING:  A prognostic; an omen; a foreboding. 

BODKIN:  An implement of steel, bone, ivory, etc., with a sharp point, for making holes by piercing; a  3. (Print.)  A sharp tool, like an awl, used for picking  4. A kind of needle with a large eye and a blunt point, for drawing tape, ribbon, etc., through a loop or a hem; a tape needle. Wedged whole ages in a bodkin's eye. Pope.  5. A kind of pin used by women to fasten the hair. To sit, ride, or travel bodkin, to sit closely wedged between two persons. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

BODKIN:  See Baudekin. [Obs.] Shirley. 

BODLE:  A small Scotch coin worth about one sixth of an English penny. Sir W. Scott. 

BODLEIAN:  Of or pertaining to Sir Thomas Bodley, or to the celebrated library at Oxford, founded by him in the sixteenth century. 

BODOCK:  The Osage orange. [Southwestern U.S.] 

BODRAGE:  A raid. [Obs.]  BOD VEAL Bod veal.  Veal too immature to be suitable for food. 

BODY:  The shank of a type, or the depth of the shank (by which the size is indicated); as, a nonpareil face on an agate body.  12. (Geom.)  A figure that has length, breadth, and thickness; any solid figure.  13. Consistency; thickness; substance; strength; as, this color has body; wine of a good body.  Note: Colors bear a body when they are capable of being ground so fine, and of being mixed so entirely with oil, as to seem only a very thick oil of the same color. After body (Naut.), the part of a ship abaft the dead flat.  -- Body cavity (Anat.), the space between the walls of the body and the inclosed viscera; the cælum; -- in mammals, divided by the diaphragm into thoracic and abdominal cavities.  -- Body of a church, the nave.  -- Body cloth; pl. Body cloths, a cloth or blanket for covering horses.  -- Body clothes. (pl.)  1. Clothing for the body; esp. underclothing.  2. Body cloths for horses. [Obs.] Addison.  -- Body coat, a gentleman's dress coat.  -- Body color (Paint.), a pigment that has consistency, thickness, or body, in distinction from a tint or wash.  -- Body of a law (Law), the main and operative part.  -- Body louse (Zoöl.), a species of louse (Pediculus vestimenti), which sometimes infests the human body and clothes. See Grayback.  -- Body plan (Shipbuilding), an end elevation, showing the conbour of the sides of a ship at certain points of her length.  -- Body politic, the collective body of a nation or state as politically organized, or as exercising political functions; also, a corporation. Wharton. As to the persons who compose the body politic or associate themselves, they take collectively the name of "people", or "nation". Bouvier. -- Body servant, a valet.  -- The bodies seven (Alchemy), the metals corresponding to the planets. [Obs.] Sol gold is, and Luna silver we threpe (=call), Mars yren (=iron), Mercurie quicksilver we clepe, Saturnus lead, and Jupiter is tin, and Venus coper. Chaucer. -- Body snatcher, one who secretly removes without right or authority a dead body from a grave, vault, etc.; a resurrectionist.  -- Body snatching (Law), the unauthorized removal of a dead body from the grave; usually for the purpose of dissection. 

BODY:  To furnish with, or as with, a body; to produce in definite shape; to embody. To body forth, to give from or shape to mentally. Imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown. Shak. 

BOEOTIAN:  Of or pertaining to Boeotia; hence, stupid; dull; obtuse.  -- n.  A native of Boeotia; also, one who is dull and ignorant. 

BOER:  A colonist or farmer in South Africa of Dutch descent. 

BOES:  Behoves or behooves. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BOG:  To sink, as into a bog; to submerge in a bog; to cause to sink and stick, as in mud and mire. At another time, he was bogged up to the middle in the slough of Lochend. Sir W. Scott. 

BOGBERRY:  The small cranberry (Vaccinium oxycoccus), which grows in boggy places. 

BOGEY:  A goblin; a bugbear. See Bogy. 

BOGGARD:  A bogey. [Local, Eng.] 

BOGGLE:  To embarrass with difficulties; to make a bungle or botch of. [Local, U. S.] 

BOGGLER:  One who boggles. 

BOGGLISH:  Doubtful; skittish. [Obs.] 

BOGGY:  Consisting of, or containing, a bog or bogs; of the nature of a bog; swampy; as, boggy land. 

BOGIE:  A four-wheeled truck, having a certain amount of play around a vertical axis, used to support in part a locomotive on a railway track.  BOGIE ENGINE Bo"gie en"gine. (Railroads)  A switching engine the running gear and driving gear of which are on a bogie, or truck. 

BOGLE:  A goblin; a specter; a frightful phantom; a bogy; a bugbear. [Written also boggle.] 

BOGSUCKER:  The American woodcock; -- so called from its feeding among the bogs. 

BOGTROTTER:  One who lives in a boggy country; -- applied in derision to the lowest class of Irish. Halliwell. 

BOGTROTTING:  Living among bogs. 

BOGUE:  To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- said only of inferior craft. 

BOGUE:  The boce; -- called also bogue bream. See Boce. 

BOGUS:  Spurious; fictitious; sham; -- a cant term originally applied to counterfeit coin, and hence denoting anything counterfeit. [Colloq. U. S.] 

BOGUS:  A liquor made of rum and molasses. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 

BOGWOOD:  The wood of trees, esp. of oaks, dug up from peat bogs. It is of a shining black or ebony color, and is largely used for making ornaments. 

BOGY:  A specter; a hobgoblin; a bugbear. "Death's heads and bogies." J. H. Newman. [Written also bogey.] There are plenty of such foolish attempts at playing bogy in the history of savages. C. Kingsley. 

BOHEA:  Bohea tea, an inferior kind of black tea. See under Tea.  Note: The name was formerly applied to superior kinds of black tea, or to black tea in general. 

BOHEMIANISM:  The characteristic conduct or methods of a Bohemian. [Modern]  BOHUN UPAS Bo"hun u"pas.  See Upas. 

BOIAR:  See Boyar. 

BOIL:  Act or state of boiling. [Colloq.] 

BOIL:  A hard, painful, inflamed tumor, which, on suppuration, discharges pus, mixed with blood, and discloses a small fibrous mass of dead tissue, called the core. A blind boil, one that suppurates imperfectly, or fails to come to a head.  -- Delhi boil (Med.), a peculiar affection of the skin, probably parasitic in origin, prevailing in India (as among the British troops) and especially at Delhi. 

BOILARY:  See Boilery. 

BOILED:  Dressed or cooked by boiling; subjected to the action of a boiling liquid; as, boiled meat; a boiled dinner; boiled clothes. 

BOILER:  A strong metallic vessel, usually of wrought iron plates riveted together, or a composite structure variously formed, in which steam is generated for driving engines, or for heating, cooking, or other purposes.  Note: The earliest steam boilers were usually spheres or sections of spheres, heated wholly from the outside. Watt used the wagon boiler (shaped like the top of a covered wagon) which is still used with low pressures. Most of the boilers in present use may be classified as plain cylinder boilers, flue boilers, sectional and tubular boilers. Barrel of a boiler, the cylindrical part containing the flues.  -- Boiler plate, Boiler iron, plate or rolled iron of about a quarter to a half inch in thickness, used for making boilers and tanks, for covering ships, etc.  -- Cylinder boiler, one which consists of a single iron cylinder.  -- Flue boilers are usually single shells containing a small number of large flues, through which the heat either passes from the fire or returns to the chimney, and sometimes containing a fire box inclosed by water.  -- Locomotive boiler, a boiler which contains an inclosed fire box and a large number of small flues leading to the chimney.  -- Multiflue boiler. Same as Tubular boiler, below.  -- Sectional boiler, a boiler composed of a number of sections, which are usually of small capacity and similar to, and connected with, each other. By multiplication of the sections a boiler of any desired capacity can be built up.  -- Tubular boiler, a boiler containing tubes which form flues, and are surrounded by the water contained in the boiler. See Illust. of Steam boiler, under Steam.  -- Tubulous boiler. See under Tubulous. See Tube, n., 6, and 1st Flue. 

BOILERY:  A place and apparatus for boiling, as for evaporating brine in salt making. 

BOILING:  Heated to the point of bubbling; heaving with bubbles; in tumultuous agitation, as boiling liquid; surging; seething; swelling with heat, ardor, or passion. Boiling point, the temperature at which a fluid is converted into vapor, with the phenomena of ebullition. This is different for different liquids, and for the same liquid under different pressures. For water, at the level of the sea, barometer 30 in., it is 212 º Fahrenheit; for alcohol, 172.96º; for ether, 94.8º; for mercury, about 675º. The boiling point of water is lowered one degree Fahrenheit for about 550 feet of ascent above the level of the sea.  -- Boiling spring, a spring which gives out very hot water, or water and steam, often ejecting it with much force; a geyser.  -- To be at the boiling point, to be very angry.  -- To keep the pot boiling, to keep going on actively, as in certain games. [Colloq.] 

BOILINGLY:  With boiling or ebullition. And lakes of bitumen rise boiling higher. Byron.  BOIS D'ARC Bois" d'arc". Etym: [F., bow wood. So called because used for bows by the Western Indians.] (Bot.)  The Osage orange (Maclura aurantiaca). The bois d'arc seems to be the characteristic growth of the black prairies. U. S. Census (1880).  BOIS DURCI Bois" dur`ci". Etym: [F., hardened wood.]  A hard, highly polishable composition, made of fine sawdust from hard wood (as rosewood) mixed with blood, and pressed. 

BOIST:  A box. [Obs.] 

BOISTEROUSLY:  In a boisterous manner. 

BOISTEROUSNESS:  The state or quality of being boisterous; turbulence; disorder; tumultuousness. 

BOISTOUS:  Rough or rude; coarse; strong; violent; boisterous; noisy. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- Bois"tous*ly, adv.  -- Bois"tous*ness, n. [Obs.] Chaucer.  BOJANUS ORGAN Bo*ja"nus or"gan. Etym: [From Bojanus, the discoverer.] (Zoöl.)  A glandular organ of bivalve mollusca, serving in part as a kidney. 

BOKADAM:  See Cerberus. 

BOKE:  To poke; to thrust. [Obs. or Dial.] 

BOLAR:  Of or pertaining to bole or clay; partaking of the nature and qualities of bole; clayey. 

BOLAS:  A kind of missile weapon consisting of one, two, or more balls of stone, iron, or other material, attached to the ends of a leather cord; -- used by the Gauchos of South America, and others, for hurling at and entangling an animal. 

BOLD:  To make bold or daring. [Obs.] Shak. 

BOLD:  To be or become bold. [Obs.]  BOLD EAGLE Bold eagle, (Zoöl.)  an Australian eagle (Aquila audax), which destroys lambs and even the kangaroo.  -- To make bold, to take liberties or the liberty; to venture.  Syn.  -- Courageous; daring; brave; intrepid; fearless; dauntless; valiant; manful; audacious; stouthearted; high-spirited; adventurous; confident; strenuous; forward; impudent. 

BOLDEN:  To make bold; to encourage; to embolden. Ready speakers, being boldened with their present abilities to say more, . . . use less help of diligence and study. Ascham.  BOLD-FACED Bold"-faced` (, a.  1. Somewhat impudent; lacking modesty; as, a bold-faced woman. I have seen enough to confute all the bold-faced atheists of this age. Bramhall.  2. (Print.)  Having a conspicuous or heavy face.  Note: This line is bold-faced nonpareil. 

BOLDLY:  In a bold manner. 

BOLDNESS:  The state or quality of being bold.  Syn.  -- Courage; bravery; intrepidity; dauntlessness; hardihood; assurance.  BOLDO; BOLDU Bol"do, Bol"du, n. (Bot.)  A fragrant evergreen shrub of Chili (Peumus Boldus). The bark is used in tanning, the wood for making charcoal, the leaves in medicine, and the drupes are eaten. 

BOLE:  The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it. Enormous elm-tree boles did stoop and lean. Tennyson. 

BOLE:  An aperture, with a wooden shutter, in the wall of a house, for giving, occasionally, air or light; also, a small closet. [Scot.] Open the bole wi'speed, that I may see if this be the right Lord Geraldin. Sir W. Scott. 

BOLE:  A measure. See Boll, n., 2. Mortimer. 

BOLECTION:  A projecting molding round a panel. Same as Bilection. Gwilt. 

BOLERO:  A Spanish dance, or the lively music which accompanies it. 

BOLETE:  any fungus of the family Boletaceae. [WordNet 1.5] 

BOLETIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, the Boletus. Boletic acid, an acid obtained from the Boletus fomentarius, variety pseudo-igniarius. Same as Fumaric acid. 

BOLETUS:  A genus of fungi having the under side of the pileus or cap composed of a multitude of fine separate tubes. A few are edible, and others very poisonous.  BOLEY; BOLYE Bo"ley, Bo"lye, n.  Same as Booly. 

BOLIDE:  A kind of meteor; a bolis. 

BOLIS:  A meteor or brilliant shooting star, followed by a train of light or sparks; esp. one which explodes. 

BOLIVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Bolivia.  -- n.  A native of Bolivia. 

BOLL:  To form a boll or seed vessel; to go to seed. The barley was in the ear, and the flax was bolled. Ex. ix. 31. 

BOLLANDISTS:  The Jesuit editors of the "Acta Sanctorum", or Lives of the Saints; -- named from John Bolland, who began the work. 

BOLLARD:  An upright wooden or iron post in a boat or on a dock, used in veering or fastening ropes. Bollard timber (Naut.), a timber, also called a knighthead, rising just within the stem in a ship, on either side of the bowsprit, to secure its end. 

BOLLEN:  See Boln, a. 

BOLLING:  A tree from which the branches have been cut; a pollard. 

BOLLWORM:  The larva of a moth (Heliothis armigera) which devours the bolls or unripe pods of the cotton plant, often doing great damage to the crops. 

BOLN:  To swell; to puff. Holland.  BOLN; BOLLEN Boln, Boll"en, a.  Swollen; puffed out. Thin, and boln out like a sail. B. Jonson. 

BOLO:  A kind of large knife resembling a machete. [Phil. Islands] 

BOLOGNESE:  Of or pertaining to Bologna.  -- n.  A native of Bologna. Bolognese school (Paint.), a school of painting founded by the Carracci, otherwise called the Lombard or Eclectic school, the object of which was to unite the excellences of the preceding schools. 

BOLOGNIAN:  Bolognese. Bolognian stone. See Bologna stone, under Bologna. 

BOLOMETER:  An instrument for measuring minute quantities of radiant heat, especially in different parts of the spectrum; -- called also actinic balance, thermic balance. S. P. Langley. 

BOLSA:  An exchange for the transaction of business. [Sp. Amer. & Phil. Islands] 

BOLSTER:  A cushioned or a piece part of a saddle.  5. (Naut.) (a) A cushioned or a piece of soft wood covered with tarred canvas, placed on the trestletrees and against the mast, for the collars of the shrouds to rest on, to prevent chafing. (b) Anything used to prevent chafing.  6. A plate of iron or a mass of wood under the end of a bridge girder, to keep the girder from resting directly on the abutment.  7. A transverse bar above the axle of a wagon, on which the bed or body rests.  8. The crossbeam forming the bearing piece of the body of a railway car; the central and principal cross beam of a car truck.  9. (Mech.)  the perforated plate in a punching machine on which anything rests when being punched.  10. (Cutlery) (a) That part of a knife blade which abuts upon the end of the handle. (b) The metallic end of a pocketknife handle. G. Francis.  11. (Arch.)  The rolls forming the ends or sides of the Ionic capital. G. Francis.  12. (Mil.)  A block of wood on the carriage of a siege gun, upon which the breech of the gun rests when arranged for transportation.  Note: [See Illust. of Gun carriage.] Bolster work (Arch.), members which are bellied or curved outward like cushions, as in friezes of certain classical styles. 

BOLSTERER:  A supporter. 

BOLT:  To refuse to support, as a nomination made by a party to which one has belonged or by a caucus in which one has taken part.  5. (Sporting)  To cause to start or spring forth; to dislodge, as conies, rabbits, etc.  6. To fasten or secure with, or as with, a bolt or bolts, as a door, a timber, fetters; to shackle; to restrain. Let tenfold iron bolt my door. Langhorn. Which shackles accidents and bolts up change. Shak. 

BOLT:  To refuse to support a nomination made by a party or a caucus with which one has been connected; to break away from a party. 

BOLT:  In the manner of a bolt; suddenly; straight; unbendingly. [He] came bolt up against the heavy dragoon. Thackeray. Bolt upright. (a) Perfectly upright; perpendicular; straight up; unbendingly erect. Addison. (b) On the back at full length. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BOLT:  A refusal to support a nomination made by the party with which one has been connected; a breaking away from one's party. 

BOLT:  To discuss or argue privately, and for practice, as cases at law. Jacob. To bolt to the bran, to examine thoroughly, so as to separate or discover everything important. Chaucer. This bolts the matter fairly to the bran. Harte. The report of the committee was examined and sifted and bolted to the bran. Burke. 

BOLT:  A sieve, esp. a long fine sieve used in milling for bolting flour and meal; a bolter. B. Jonson. 

BOLTEL:  See Boultel. 

BOLTER:  One who bolts; esp.: (a) A horse which starts suddenly aside. (b) A man who breaks away from his party. 

BOLTER:  A kind of fishing line. See Boulter. 

BOLTHEAD:  A long, straightnecked, glass vessel for chemical distillations; -- called also a matrass or receiver.  2. The head of a bolt. 

BOLTING:  A darting away; a starting off or aside. 

BOLTING:  A private arguing of cases for practice by students, as in the Inns of Court. [Obs.] Bolting cloth, wire, hair, silk, or other sieve cloth of different degrees of fineness; -- used by millers for sifting flour. McElrath.  -- Bolting hutch, a bin or tub for the bolted flour or meal; (fig.) a receptacle. 

BOLTONITE:  A granular mineral of a grayish or yellowish color, found in Bolton, Massachusetts. It is a silicate of magnesium, belonging to the chrysolite family. 

BOLTROPE:  A rope stitched to the edges of a sail to strengthen the sail. 

BOLTSPRIT:  See Bowsprit. 

BOLTY:  An edible fish of the Nile (genus Chromis). [Written also bulti.] 

BOLUS:  A rounded mass of anything, esp. a large pill. 

BOM:  A large American serpent, so called from the sound it makes. 

BOMB:  A shell; esp. a spherical shell, like those fired from mortars. See Shell.  3. A bomb ketch. Bomb chest (Mil.), a chest filled with bombs, or only with gunpowder, placed under ground, to cause destruction by its explosion.  -- Bomb ketch, Bomb vessel (Naut.), a small ketch or vessel, very strongly built, on which mortars are mounted to be used in naval bombardments; -- called also mortar vessel.  -- Bomb lance, a lance or harpoon with an explosive head, used in whale fishing.  -- Volcanic bomb, a mass of lava of a spherical or pear shape. "I noticed volcanic bombs." Darwin. 

BOMB:  To bombard. [Obs.] Prior. 

BOMB:  To sound; to boom; to make a humming or buzzing sound. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BOMBACE:  Cotton; padding. [Obs.] 

BOMBARD:  A piece of heavy ordnance formerly used for throwing stones and other ponderous missiles. It was the earliest kind of cannon. They planted in divers places twelve great bombards, wherewith they threw huge stones into the air, which, falling down into the city, might break down the houses. Knolles.  2. A bombardment. [Poetic & R.] J. Barlow.  3. A large drinking vessel or can, or a leather bottle, for carrying liquor or beer. [Obs.] Yond same black cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor. Shak.  4. pl.  Padded breeches. [Obs.] Bombard phrase, inflated language; bombast. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BOMBARD:  See Bombardo. [Obs.] 

BOMBARD:  To attack with bombards or with artillery; especially, to throw shells, hot shot, etc., at or into. Next, she means to bombard Naples. Burke. His fleet bombarded and burnt down Dieppe. Wood. 

BOMBARDMAN:  One who carried liquor or beer in a can or bombard. [Obs.] They . . . made room for a bombardman that brought bouge for a country lady. B. Jonson. 

BOMBARDMENT:  An attack upon a fortress or fortified town, with shells, hot shot, rockets, etc.; the act of throwing bombs and shot into a town or fortified place.  BOMBARDO; BOMBARDON Bom*bar"do, Bom*bar"don, n. Etym: [It. bombardo.] (Mus.)  Originally, a deep-toned instrument of the oboe or bassoon family; thence, a bass reed stop on the organ. The name bombardon is now given to a brass instrument, the lowest of the saxhorns, in tone resembling the ophicleide. Grove. 

BOMBASINE:  Same as Bombazine. 

BOMBAST:  High-sounding; inflated; big without meaning; magniloquent; bombastic. [He] evades them with a bombast circumstance, Horribly stuffed with epithets of war. Shak. Nor a tall metaphor in bombast way. Cowley. 

BOMBAST:  To swell or fill out; to pad; to inflate. [Obs.] Not bombasted with words vain ticklish ears to feed. Drayton.  BOMBASTIC; BOMBASTICAL Bom*bas"tic, Bom*bas"tic*al, a.  Characterized by bombast; highsounding; inflated.  -- Bom*bas"tic*al*ly, adv. A theatrical, bombastic, windy phraseology. Burke.  Syn.  -- Turgid; tumid; pompous; grandiloquent. 

BOMBASTRY:  Swelling words without much meaning; bombastic language; fustian. Bombastry and buffoonery, by nature lofty and light, soar highest of all. Swift. 

BOMBAX:  A genus of trees, called also the silkcotton tree; also, a tree of the genus Bombax.  BOMBAZET; BOMBAZETTE Bom`ba*zet" Bom`ba*zette", n. Etym: [Cf. Bombazine.]  A sort of thin woolen cloth. It is of various colors, and may be plain or twilled. 

BOMBAZINE:  A twilled fabric for dresses, of which the warp is silk, and the weft worsted. Black bombazine has been much used for mourning garments. [Sometimes spelt bombasin, and bombasine.] Tomlinson. 

BOMBIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, the silkworm; as, bombic acid. 

BOMBILATE:  To hum; to buzz. [R.] 

BOMBILATION:  A humming sound; a booming. To . . . silence the bombilation of guns. Sir T. Browne. 

BOMBINATE:  To hum; to boom. 

BOMBINATION:  A humming or buzzing. 

BOMBOLO:  A thin spheroidal glass retort or flask, used in the sublimation of camphor. [Written also bumbelo, and bumbolo.] 

BOMBPROOF:  Secure against the explosive force of bombs.  -- n.  A structure which heavy shot and shell will not penetrate. 

BOMBSHELL:  A bomb. See Bomb, n. 

BOMBYCID:  Like or pertaining to the genus Bombyx, or the family Bombycidæ. 

BOMBYLIOUS:  Buzzing, like a bumblebee; as, the bombylious noise of the horse fly. [Obs.] Derham. 

BOMBYX:  A genus of moths, which includes the silkworm moth. See Silkworm. 

BON:  Good; valid as security for something.  BON-ACCORD Bon-ac*cord", n.  Good will; good fellowship; agreement. [Scot.] 

BONACI:  In or with good faith; without fraud or deceit; real or really; actual or actually; genuine or genuinely; as, you must proceed bona fide; a bona fide purchaser or transaction.  BONA FIDES Bo"na fi"des (bo"na fi"dez). [L.]  Good faith; honesty; freedom from fraud or deception. 

BONAIR:  Gentle; courteous; complaisant; yielding. [Obs.] 

BONANZA:  In mining, a rich mine or vein of silver or gold; hence, anything which is a mine of wealth or yields a large income. [Colloq. U. S.] 

BONAPARTEAN:  Of or pertaining to Napoleon Bonaparte or his family. 

BONAPARTISM:  The policy of Bonaparte or of the Bonapartes. 

BONAPARTIST:  One attached to the policy or family of Bonaparte, or of the Bonapartes.  BONA PERITURA Bo"na per`i*tu"ra. Etym: [L.] (Law)  Perishable goods. Bouvier.  BONA ROBA Bo"na ro"ba. Etym: [It., prop. "good stuff."]  A showy wanton; a courtesan. Shak  BONASUS; BONASSUS Bo*na"sus, Bo*nas"sus, n. Etym: [L. bonasus, Gr. , .] (Zoöl.)  The aurochs or European bison. See Aurochs. 

BONBON:  Sugar confectionery; a sugarplum; hence, any dainty. 

BONBONNIERE:  A small fancy box or dish for bonbons. 

BONCE:  A boy's game played with large marbles. 

BONCHRETIEN:  A name given to several kinds of pears. See Bartlett. 

BONCILATE:  A substance composed of ground bone, mineral matters, etc., hardened by pressure, and used for making billiard balls, boxes, etc. 

BOND:  The state of being bound; imprisonment; captivity, restraint. "This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds." Acts xxvi.  3. A binding force or influence; a cause of union; a uniting tie; as, the bonds of fellowship. A people with whom I have no tie but the common bond of mankind. Burke.  4. Moral or political duty or obligation. I love your majesty According to my bond, nor more nor less. Shak.  5. (Law)  A writing under seal, by which a person binds himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, to pay a certain sum on or before a future day appointed. This is a single bond. But usually a condition is added, that, if the obligor shall do a certain act, appear at a certain place, conform to certain rules, faithfully perform certain duties, or pay a certain sum of money, on or before a time specified, the obligation shall be void; otherwise it shall remain in full force. If the condition is not performed, the bond becomes forfeited, and the obligor and his heirs are liable to the payment of the whole sum. Bouvier. Wharton.  6. An instrument (of the nature of the ordinary legal bond) made by a government or a corporation for purpose of borrowing money; as, a government, city, or railway bond.  7. The state of goods placed in a bonded warehouse till the duties are paid; as, merchandise in bond.  8. (Arch.)  The union or tie of the several stones or bricks forming a wall. The bricks may be arranged for this purpose in several different ways, as in English or block bond (Fig. 1), where one course consists of bricks with their ends toward the face of the wall, called headers, and the next course of bricks with their lengths parallel to the face of the wall, called stretchers; Flemish bond (Fig.2), where each course consists of headers and stretchers alternately, so laid as always to break joints; Cross bond, which differs from the English by the change of the second stretcher line so that its joints come in the middle of the first, and the same position of stretchers comes back every fifth line; Combined cross and English bond, where the inner part of the wall is laid in the one method, the outer in the other.  9. (Chem.)  A unit of chemical attraction; as, oxygen has two bonds of affinity. It is often represented in graphic formulæ by a short line or dash. See Diagram of Benzene nucleus, and Valence. Arbitration bond. See under Arbitration.  -- Bond crediter (Law), a creditor whose debt is secured by a bond. Blackstone.  -- Bond debt (Law), a debt contracted under the obligation of a bond. Burrows.  -- Bond (or lap) of a slate, the distance between the top of one slate and the bottom or drip of the second slate above, i. e., the space which is covered with three thicknesses; also, the distance between the nail of the under slate and the lower edge of the upper slate.  -- Bond timber, timber worked into a wall to tie or strengthen it longitudinally.  Syn.  -- Chains; fetters; captivity; imprisonment. 

BOND:  To dispose in building, as the materials of a wall, so as to secure solidity. 

BOND:  A xassal or serf; a slave. [Obs. or Archaic] 

BOND:  In a state of servitude or slavery; captive. By one Spirit are we all baptized .. whether we be Jews or Bentiles, whether we be bond or free. 1 Cor. xii. 13. 

BONDAGE:  Villenage; tenure of land on condition of doing the meanest services for the owner.  Syn.  -- Thralldom; bond service; imprisonment. 

BONDAGER:  A field worker, esp. a woman who works in the field. [Scot.] 

BONDAR:  A small quadruped of Bengal (Paradoxurus bondar), allied to the genet; -- called also musk cat. 

BONDED:  Placed under, or covered by, a bond, as for the payment of duties, or for conformity to coertain regulations. Bonded goods, goods placed in a bonded warehouse; goods, for the duties on which bonds are given at the customhouse.  -- Bonded warehouse, a warehouse in which goods on which the duties are unpaid are stored under bond and in the joint custody of the importer, or his agent, and the customs officers. 

BONDER:  A bonding stone or brick; a bondstone. 

BONDER:  A freeholder on a small scale. [Norway] Emerson. 

BONDHOLDER:  A person who holds the bonds of a public or private corporation for the payment of money at a certain time. 

BONDMAID:  A female slave, or one bound to service without wages, as distinguished from a hired servant. 

BONDMAN:  A villain, or tenant in villenage.  BOND SERVANT Bond" serv`ant.  A slave; one who is bound to service without wages. If thy brother . . . be waxen poor, and be sold unto thee; thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bond servant: but as an hired servant. Lev. xxv. 39, 40.  BOND SERVICE Bond" serv`ice.  The condition of a bond servant; sevice without wages; slavery. Their children . . . upon those did Solomon levy a tribute of bond service. 1 Kings ix. 21. 

BONDSLAVE:  A person in a state of slavery; one whose person and liberty are subjected to the authority of a master. 

BONDSMAN:  A surety; one who is bound, or who gives security, for another. 

BONDSTONE:  A stone running through a wall from one face to another, to bind it together; a binding stone. 

BONDSWOMAN:  See Bondwoman. 

BONDUC:  See Nicker tree. 

BONDWOMAN:  A woman who is a slave, or in bondage. He who was of the bondwoman. Gal. iv. 23. 

BONE:  The hard, calcified tissue of the skeleton of vertebrate animals, consisting very largely of calcic carbonate, calcic phosphate, and gelatine; as, blood and bone.  Note: Even in the hardest parts of bone there are many minute cavities containing living matter and connected by minute canals, some of which connect with larger canals through which blood vessels ramify.  2. One of the pieces or parts of an animal skeleton; as, a rib or a thigh bone; a bone of the arm or leg; also, any fragment of bony substance. (pl.) The frame or skeleton of the body.  3. Anything made of bone, as a bobbin for weaving bone lace.  4. pl.  Two or four pieces of bone held between the fingers and struck together to make a kind of music.  5. pl.  Dice.  6. Whalebone; hence, a piece of whalebone or of steel for a corset.  7. Fig.: The framework of anything. A bone of contention, a subject of contention or dispute.  -- A bone to pick, something to investigate, or to busy one's self about; a dispute to be settled (with some one).  -- Bone ash, the residue from calcined bones; -- used for making cupels, and for cleaning jewelry.  -- Bone black (Chem.), the black, carbonaceous substance into which bones are converted by calcination in close vessels; -- called also animal charcoal. It is used as a decolorizing material in filtering sirups, extracts, etc., and as a black pigment. See Ivory black, under Black.  -- Bone cave, a cave in which are found bones of extinct or recent animals, mingled sometimes with the works and bones of man. Am. Cyc.  -- Bone dust, ground or pulverized bones, used as a fertilizer.  -- Bone earth (Chem.), the earthy residuum after the calcination of bone, consisting chiefly of phosphate of calcium.  -- Bone lace, a lace made of linen thread, so called because woven with bobbins of bone.  -- Bone oil, an oil obtained by, heating bones (as in the manufacture of bone black), and remarkable for containing the nitrogenous bases, pyridine and quinoline, and their derivatives; -- also called Dippel's oil.  -- Bone setter. Same as Bonesetter. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Bone shark (Zoöl.), the basking shark.  -- Bone spavin. See under Spavin.  -- Bone turquoise, fossil bone or tooth of a delicate blue color, sometimes used as an imitation of true turquoise.  -- Bone whale (Zoöl.), a right whale.  -- To be upon the bones of, to attack. [Obs.] -- To make no bones, to make no scruple; not to hesitate. [Low] -- To pick a bone with, to quarrel with, as dogs quarrel over a bone; to settle a disagreement. [Colloq.] 

BONE:  To sight along an object or set of objects, to see if it or they be level or in line, as in carpentry, masonry, and surveying. Knight. Joiners, etc., bone their work with two straight edges. W. M. Buchanan. 

BONEACHE:  Pain in the bones. Shak. 

BONEBLACK:  See Bone black, under Bone, n. 

BONEDOG:  The spiny dogfish. 

BONEFISH:  See Ladyfish. 

BONELESS:  Without bones. "Boneless gums." Shak. 

BONESET:  A medicinal plant, the thoroughwort (Eupatorium perfoliatum). Its properties are diaphoretic and tonic. 

BONESETTER:  One who sets broken or dislocated bones; -- commonly applied to one, not a regular surgeon, who makes an occupation of setting bones.  -- Bone"set*ting, n. 

BONESHAW:  Sciatica. [Obs.] 

BONETTA:  See Bonito. Sir T. Herbert. 

BONFIRE:  A large fire built in the open air, as an expression of public joy and exultation, or for amusement. Full soon by bonfire and by bell, We learnt our liege was passing well. Gay. 

BONGO:  Either of two large antelopes (Boöcercus eurycercus of West Africa, and B. isaaci of East Africa) of a reddish or chestnut-brown color with narrow white stripes on the body. Their flesh is especially esteemed as food. 

BONGRACE:  A projecting bonnet or shade to protect the complexion; also, a wide-brimmed hat. [Obs.]  BONHOMIE; BONHOMMIE Bon`ho*mie", Bon`hom*mie" (, n. Etym: [F.]  good nature; pleasant and easy manner. 

BONIBELL:  See Bonnibel. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BONIFACE:  An innkeeper. 

BONIFORM:  Sensitive or responsive to moral excellence. Dr. H. More. 

BONIFY:  To convert into, or make, good. To bonify evils, or tincture them with good. Cudworth. 

BONINESS:  The condition or quality of being bony. 

BONITARY:  Beneficial, as opposed to statutory or civil; as, bonitary dominion of land. 

BONMOT:  A witty repartee; a jest. 

BONNAZ:  A kind of embroidery made with a complicated sewing machine, said to have been originally invented by a Frenchman of the name of Bonnaz. The work is done either in freehand or by following a perforated design. 

BONNE:  (F., prop. good woman.) A female servant charged with the care of a young child.  BONNE BOUCHE Bonne" bouche"; pl. Bonnes bouches (. Etym: [F. bon, fem. bonne, good + bouche mouth.]  A delicious morsel or mouthful; a tidbit. 

BONNET:  An additional piece of canvas laced to the foot of a jib or foresail in moderate winds. Hakluyt.  6. The second stomach of a ruminating animal.  7. An accomplice of a gambler, auctioneer, etc., who entices others to bet or to bid; a decoy. [Cant] Bonnet head (Zoöl.), a shark (Sphyrna tiburio) of the southern United States and West Indies.  -- Bonnet limpet (Zoöl.), a name given, from their shape, to various species of shells (family Calyptræidæ).  -- Bonnet monkey (Zoöl.), an East Indian monkey (Macacus sinicus), with a tuft of hair on its head; the munga.  -- Bonnet piece, a gold coin of the time of James V. of Scotland, the king's head on which wears a bonnet. Sir W. Scott.  -- To have a bee in the bonnet. See under Bee.  -- Black bonnet. See under Black.  -- Blue bonnet. See in the Vocabulary. 

BONNET:  To take off the bonnet or cap as a mark of respect; to uncover. [Obs.] Shak. 

BONNETED:  Protected by a bonnet. See Bonnet, 4 (a). 

BONNETLESS:  Without a bonnet.  BONNET ROUGE Bon`net" rouge". [F.]  The red cap adopted by the extremists in the French Revolution, which became a sign of patriotism at that epoch; hence, a revolutionist; a Red Republican. 

BONNIBEL:  A handsome girl. [Obs.] 

BONNIE:  See Bonny, a. 

BONNILASS:  A "bonny lass"; a beautiful girl. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BONNILY:  Gayly; handsomely. 

BONNINESS:  The quality of being bonny; gayety [R.] 

BONNY:  A round and compact bed of ore, or a distinct bed, not communicating with a vein. 

BONNYCLABBER:  Coagulated sour milk; loppered milk; curdled milk; -- sometimes called simply clabber. B. Jonson.  BON SILENE Bon" Si`lène". Etym: [F.] (Bot.)  A very fragrant tea rose with petals of various shades of pink. 

BONSPIEL:  A cur [Scot.] 

BONTEBOK:  The pied antelope of South Africa (Alcelaphus pygarga). Its face and rump are white. Called also nunni.  BON TON Bon" ton". Etym: [F., good tone, manner.]  The height of the fashion; fashionable society. 

BONUS:  A premium given for a loan, or for a charter or other privilege granted to a company; as the bank paid a bonus for its charter. Bouvier.  2. An extra dividend to the shareholders of a joint stock company, out of accumulated profits.  3. Money paid in addition to a stated compensation.  BON VIVANT Bon" vi`vant"; pl. Bons vivants. Etym: [F. bon good + vivant, p. pr. of vivre to live.]  A good fellow; a jovial companion; a free liver. 

BONZE:  A Buddhist or Fohist priest, monk, or nun.  Note: The name was given by the Portuguese to the priests of Japan, and has since been applied to the priests of China, Cochin China, and the neighboring countries. 

BOOBY:  Having the characteristics of a booby; stupid. 

BOOBYISH:  Stupid; dull. 

BOODH:  Same as Buddha. Malcom. 

BOODHISM:  Same as Buddhism. 

BOODHIST:  Same as Buddhist. 

BOOHOE:  To bawl; to cry loudly. [Low] Bartlett. 

BOOHOO:  The sailfish; -- called also woohoo. 

BOOKBINDER:  One whose occupation is to bind books. 

BOOKBINDERY:  A bookbinder's shop; a place or establishment for binding books. 

BOOKBINDING:  The art, process, or business of binding books. 

BOOKCASE:  A case with shelves for holding books, esp. one with glazed doors. 

BOOKCRAFT:  Authorship; literary skill. 

BOOKER:  One who enters accounts or names, etc., in a book; a bookkeeper. 

BOOKFUL:  As much as will fill a book; a book full. Shak.  -- a.  Filled with book learning. [R.] "The bookful blockhead." Pope. 

BOOKHOLDER:  A clerk who registers passengers, baggage, etc., for conveyance, as by railway or steamship, or who sells passage tickets at a booking office.  BOOKING OFFICE Book"ing of`fice.  1. An office where passengers, baggage, etc., are registered for conveyance, as by railway or steamship.  2. An office where passage tickets are sold. [Eng.] 

BOOKKEEPER:  One who keeps accounts; one who has the charge of keeping the books and accounts in an office. 

BOOKKEEPING:  The art of recording pecuniary or business transactions in a regular and systematic manner, so as to show their relation to each other, and the state of the business in which they occur; the art of keeping accounts. The books commonly used are a daybook, cashbook, journal, and ledger. See Daybook, Cashbook, Journal, and Ledger. Bookkeeping by single entry, the method of keeping books by carrying the record of each transaction to the debit or credit of a single account.  -- Bookkeeping by double entry, a mode of bookkeeping in which two entries of every transaction are carried to the ledger, one to the Dr., or left hand, side of one account, and the other to the Cr., or right hand, side of a corresponding account, in order thaItalian method.  BOOKLAND; BOCKLAND Book"land`, Bock"land`, n. Etym: [AS. b; b book + land land.] (O. Eng. Law)  Charter land held by deed under certain rents and free services, which differed in nothing from free socage lands. This species of tenure has given rise to the modern freeholds.  BOOK-LEARNED Book"-learned`, a.  Versed in books; having knowledge derived from books. [Often in a disparaging sense.] Whate'er these book-learned blockheads say, Solon's the veriest fool in all the play. Dryden. 

BOOKLESS:  Without books; unlearned. Shenstone. 

BOOKLET:  A little book. T. Arnold. 

BOOKMAKER:  A betting man who "makes a book." See To make a book, under Book, n. 

BOOKMAN:  A studious man; a scholar. Shak. 

BOOKMARK:  Something placed in a book to guide in finding a particular page or passage; also, a label in a book to designate the owner; a bookplate. 

BOOKMATE:  A schoolfellow; an associate in study. 

BOOKMONGER:  A dealer in books.  BOOK MUSLIN Book" mus`lin.  1. A kind of muslin used for the covers of books.  2. A kind of thin white muslin for ladies' dresses. 

BOOKPLATE:  A label, placed upon or in a book, showing its ownership or its position in a library. 

BOOKSELLER:  One who sells books. 

BOOKSELLING:  The employment of selling books. 

BOOKSHELF:  A shelf to hold books. 

BOOKSHOP:  A bookseller's shop. [Eng.] 

BOOKSTALL:  A stall or stand where books are sold. 

BOOKSTORE:  A store where books are kept for sale; -- called in England a bookseller's shop. 

BOOKWORM:  Any larva of a beetle or moth, which is injurious to books. Many species are known.  2. A student closely attached to books or addicted to study; a reader without appreciation. I wanted but a black gown and a salary to be as mere a bookworm as any there. Pope. 

BOOKY:  Bookish. 

BOOLY:  A company of Irish herdsmen, or a single herdsman, wandering from place to place with flocks and herds, and living on their milk, like the Tartars; also, a place in the mountain pastures inclosed for the shelter of cattle or their keepers. [Obs.] [Written also boley, bolye, bouillie.] Spenser. 

BOOM:  A long pole or spar, run out for the purpose of extending the bottom of a particular sail; as, the jib boom, the studding-sail boom, etc.  2. (Mech.)  A long spar or beam, projecting from the mast of a derrick, from the outer end of which the body to be lifted is suspended.  3. A pole with a conspicuous top, set up to mark the channel in a river or harbor. [Obs.]  4. (Mil. & Naval)  A strong chain cable, or line of spars bound together, extended across a river or the mouth of a harbor, to obstruct navigation or passage.  5. (Lumbering)  A line of connected floating timbers stretched across a river, or inclosing an area of water, to keep saw logs, etc., from floating away. Boom iron, one of the iron rings on the yards through which the studding-sail booms traverse.  -- The booms, that space on the upper deck of a ship between the foremast and mainmast, where the boats, spare spars, etc., are stowed. Totten. 

BOOM:  To extend, or push, with a boom or pole; as, to boom out a sail; to boom off a boat. 

BOOM:  To cause to advance rapidly in price; as, to boom railroad or mining shares; to create a "boom" for; as to boom Mr. C. for senator. [Colloq. U. S.] 

BOOMDAS:  A small African hyracoid mammal (Dendrohyrax arboreus) resembling the daman. 

BOOMER:  A North American rodent, so named because it is said to make a booming noise. See Sewellel.  3. (Zoöl.)  A large male kangaroo.  4. One who works up a "boom". [Slang, U. S.] 

BOOMERANG:  A very singular missile weapon used by the natives of Australia and in some parts of India. It is usually a curved stick of hard wood, from twenty to thirty inches in length, from two to three inches wide, and half or three quarters of an inch thick. When thrown from the hand with a quick rotary motion, it describes very remarkable curves, according to the shape of the instrument and the manner of throwing it, often moving nearly horizontally a long distance, then curving upward to a considerable height, and finally taking a retrograde direction, so as to fall near the place from which it was thrown, or even far in the rear of it. 

BOOMING:  The act of producing a hollow or roaring sound; a violent rushing with heavy roar; as, the booming of the sea; a deep, hollow sound; as, the booming of bitterns. Howitt. 

BOOMKIN:  Same as Bumkin. 

BOOMORAH:  A small West African chevrotain (Hyæmoschus aquaticus), resembling the musk deer. 

BOOMSLANGE:  A large South African tree snake (Bucephalus Capensis). Although considered venomous by natives, it has no poison fangs. 

BOON:  The woody portion flax, which is separated from the fiber as refuse matter by retting, braking, and scutching. 

BOORISH:  Like a boor; clownish; uncultured; unmannerly.  -- Boor"ish*ly, adv.  -- Boor"ish*ness, n. Which is in truth a gross and boorish opinion. Milton. 

BOORT:  See Bort. 

BOOSE:  A stall or a crib for an ox, cow, or other animal. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

BOOSE:  To drink excessively. See Booze. 

BOOSER:  A toper; a guzzler. See Boozer. 

BOOST:  To lift or push from behind (one who is endeavoring to climb); to push up; hence, to assist in overcoming obstacles, or in making advancement. [Colloq. U. S.] 

BOOST:  A push from behind, as to one who is endeavoring to climb; help. [Colloq. U. S.] 

BOOSTER:  An instrument for regulating the electro-motive force in an alternating-current circuit; -- so called because used to "boost", or raise, the pressure in the circuit. 

BOOT:  The metal casing and flange fitted about a pipe where it passes through a roof. Boot catcher, the person at an inn whose business it was to pull off boots and clean them. [Obs.] Swift.  -- Boot closer, one who, or that which, sews the uppers of boots.  -- Boot crimp, a frame or device used by bootmakers for drawing and shaping the body of a boot.  -- Boot hook, a hook with a handle, used for pulling on boots.  -- Boots and saddles (Cavalry Tactics), the trumpet call which is the first signal for mounted drill.  -- Sly boots. See Slyboots, in the Vocabulary. 

BOOT:  To boot one's self; to put on one's boots. 

BOOT:  Booty; spoil. [Obs. or R.] Shak. 

BOOTBLACK:  One who blacks boots. 

BOOTED:  Having an undivided, horny, bootlike covering; -- said of the tarsus of some birds. 

BOOTEE:  A half boot or short boot.  BOOTES; BOOETES Bo*ö"tes, n. Etym: [L. Bootes, Gr. herdsman, fr. , gen. , ox, cow.] (Astron.)  A northern constellation, containing the bright star Arcturus. 

BOOTHALE:  To forage for booty; to plunder. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

BOOTHY:  See Bothy. 

BOOTING:  Advantage; gain; gain by plunder; booty. [Obs.] Sir. J. Harrington. 

BOOTJACK:  A device for pulling off boots. 

BOOTLESS:  Unavailing; unprofitable; useless; without advantage or success. Chaucer. I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers. Shak. -- Boot"less*ly, adv.  -- Boot"less*ness, n. 

BOOTLICK:  A toady. [Low, U. S.] Bartlett. 

BOOTMAKER:  One who makes boots.  -- Boot"mak`ing, n. 

BOOTS:  A servant at a hotel or elsewhere, who cleans and blacks the boots and shoes. 

BOOTTOPPING:  The act or process of daubing a vessel's bottom near the surface of the water with a mixture of tallow, sulphur, and resin, as a temporary protection against worms, after the slime, shells, etc., have been scraped off.  2. (Naut.)  Sheathing a vessel with planking over felt. 

BOOTTREE:  An instrument to stretch and widen the leg of a boot, consisting of two pieces, together shaped like a leg, between which, when put into the boot, a wedge is driven. The pretty boots trimly stretched on boottrees. Thackeray. 

BOOTY:  That which is seized by violence or obtained by robbery, especially collective spoil taken in war; plunder; pillage. Milton. To play booty, to play dishonestly, with an intent to lose; to allow one's adversary to win at cards at first, in order to induce him to continue playing and victimize him afterwards. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 

BOOZE:  To drink greedily or immoderately, esp. alcoholic liquor; to tipple. [Written also bouse, and boose.] Landor. This is better than boozing in public houses. H. R. Haweis. 

BOOZE:  A carouse; a drinking. Sir W. Scott. 

BOOZER:  One who boozes; a toper; a guzzler of alcoholic liquors; a bouser. 

BOOZY:  A little intoxicated; fuddled; stupid with liquor; bousy. [Colloq.] C. Kingsley. 

BOPEEP:  The act of looking out suddenly, as from behind a screen, so as to startle some one (as by children in play), or of looking out and drawing suddenly back, as if frightened. I for sorrow sung, That such a king should play bopeep, And go the fools among. Shak. 

BORABLE:  Capable of being bored. [R.] 

BORACHTE:  A large leather bottle for liquors, etc., made of the skin of a goat or other animal. Hence: A drunkard. [Obs.] You're an absolute borachio. Congreve. 

BORACIC:  Pertaining to, or produced from, borax; containing boron; boric; as, boracic acid. 

BORACITE:  A mineral of a white or gray color occurring massive and in isometric crystals; in composition it is a magnesium borate with magnesium chloride. 

BORACOUS:  Relating to, or obtained from, borax; containing borax. 

BORAGE:  A mucilaginous plant of the genus Borago (B. officinalis), which is used, esp. in France, as a demulcent and diaphoretic. 

BORAGEWORT:  Plant of the Borage family. 

BORAGINACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants (Boraginaceæ) which includes the borage, heliotrope, beggar's lice, and many pestiferous plants. 

BORAGINEOUS:  Relating to the Borage tribe; boraginaceous. 

BORAMEZ:  See Barometz. 

BORATE:  A salt formed by the combination of boric acid with a base or positive radical. 

BORAX:  A white or gray crystalline salt, with a slight alkaline taste, used as a flux, in soldering metals, making enamels, fixing colors on porcelain, and as a soap. It occurs native in certain mineral springs, and is made from the boric acid of hot springs in Tuscany. It was originally obtained from a lake in Thibet, and was sent to Europe under the name of tincal. Borax is a pyroborate or tetraborate of sodium, Na2B4O7.10H2O. Borax bead. (Chem.) See Bead, n., 3. 

BORBORYGM:  A rumbling or gurgling noise produced by wind in the bowels. Dunglison. 

BORD:  The face of coal parallel to the natural fissures. 

BORD:  See Bourd. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BORDAGE:  The base or servile tenure by which a bordar held his cottage. 

BORDAR:  A villein who rendered menial service for his cottage; a cottier. The cottar, the bordar, and the laborer were bound to aid in the work of the home farm. J. R. Green. 

BORDEAUX:  Pertaining to Bordeaux in the south of France.  -- n.  A claret wine from Bordeaux.  BORDEAUX MIXTURE Bor*deaux" mix"ture. (Hort.)  A fungicidal mixture composed of blue vitriol, lime, and water. The formula in common use is: blue vitriol, 6 lbs.; lime, 4 lbs.; water, 35 -- 50 gallons.  BORDEL; BORDELLO Bor"del, Bor*del"lo, n. Etym: [F. bordel, orig. a little hut, OF. borde hut, cabin, of German origin, and akin to E. board,n.See. Board, n.]  A brothel; a bawdyhouse; a house devoted to prostitution. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BORDELAIS:  Of or pertaining to Bordeaux, in France, or to the district around Bordeaux. 

BORDELLER:  A keeper or a frequenter of a brothel. [Obs.] Gower. 

BORDEREAU:  A note or memorandum, esp. one containing an enumeration of documents. 

BORDERER:  One who dwells on a border, or at the extreme part or confines of a country, region, or tract of land; one who dwells near to a place or region. Borderers of the Caspian. Dyer. 

BORDLAND:  Either land held by a bordar, or the land which a lord kept for the maintenance of his board, or table. Spelman. 

BORDLODE:  The service formerly required of a tenant, to carry timber from the woods to the lord's house. Bailey. Mozley & W. 

BORDMAN:  A bordar; a tenant in bordage.  BORDRAG; BORDRAGING Bord"rag, Bord"ra`ging, n. Etym: [Perh. from OE. bord, for border + raging. Cf. Bodrage.]  An incursion upon the borders of a country; a raid. [Obs.] Spenser.  BORD SERVICE Bord" serv`ice. Etym: [Bordar (or perh. bord a board) + service.] (O. Eng. Law)  Service due from a bordar; bordage. 

BORDURE:  A border one fifth the width of the shield, surrounding the field. It is usually plain, but may be charged. 

BORE:  To shoot out the nose or toss it in the air; Crabb. 

BORE:  imp. of 1st & 2d Bear. 

BOREAL:  Northern; pertaining to the north, or to the north wind; as, a boreal bird; a boreal blast. So from their own clear north in radiant streams, Bright over Europe bursts the boreal morn. Thomson. 

BOREAS:  The north wind; -- usually a personification. 

BORECOLE:  A brassicaceous plant of many varieties, cultivated for its leaves, which are not formed into a compact head like the cabbage, but are loose, and are generally curled or wrinkled; kale. 

BOREE:  Same as BourrÉ\'82. [Obs.] Swift. 

BOREL:  See Borrel. 

BORELE:  The smaller two-horned rhinoceros of South Africa (Atelodus bicornis). 

BORIC:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, boron. Boric acid, a white crystalline substance B(OH)3, easily obtained from its salts, and occurring in solution in the hot lagoons of Tuscany. 

BORIDE:  A binary compound of boron with a more positive or basic element or radical; -- formerly called boruret. 

BORING:  The chips or fragments made by boring. Boring bar, a revolving or stationary bar, carrying one or more cutting tools for dressing round holes.  -- Boring tool (Metal Working), a cutting tool placed in a cutter head to dress round holes. Knight. 

BORNE:  Carried; conveyed; supported; defrayed. See Bear, v. t. 

BORNEOL:  A rare variety of camphor, C10H17.OH, resembling ordinary camphor, from which it can be produced by reduction. It is said to occur in the camphor tree of Borneo and Sumatra (Dryobalanops camphora), but the natural borneol is rarely found in European or American commerce, being in great request by the Chinese. Called also Borneo camphor, Malay camphor, and camphol. 

BORNITE:  A valuable ore of copper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur; -- also called purple copper ore (or erubescite), in allusion to the colors shown upon the slightly tarnished surface. 

BOROFLUORIDE:  A double fluoride of boron and hydrogen, or some other positive element, or radical; -- called also fluoboride, and formerly fluoborate. 

BOROGLYCERIDE:  A compound of boric acid and glycerin, used as an antiseptic. 

BORON:  A nonmetallic element occurring abundantly in borax. It is reduced with difficulty to the free state, when it can be obtained in several different forms; viz., as a substance of a deep olive color, in a semimetallic form, and in colorless quadratic crystals similar to the diamond in hardness and other properties. It occurs in nature also in boracite, datolite, tourmaline, and some other minerals. Atomic weight 10.9. Symbol B. 

BOROSILICATE:  A double salt of boric and silicic acids, as in the natural minerals tourmaline, datolite, etc. 

BOROUGH:  A custom, as in some ancient boroughs, by which lands and tenements descend to the youngest son, instead of the eldest; or, if the owner have no issue, to the youngest brother. Blackstone. 

BOROUGHHEAD:  See Headborough. [Obs.] 

BOROUGHHOLDER:  A headborough; a borsholder. 

BOROUGHMASTER:  The mayor, governor, or bailiff of a borough. 

BOROUGHMONGER:  One who buys or sells the parliamentary seats of boroughs.  BOROUGHMONGERING; BOROUGHMONGERY Bor"ough*mon"ger*ing, Bor"ough*mon"ger*y, n.  The practices of a boroughmonger. 

BORRACHO:  See Borachio. [Obs.]  BORRAGE; BORRAGINACEOUS Bor"rage, n., Bor*rag`i*na"ceous (, a., etc.  See Borage, n., etc. 

BORREL:  Ignorant, unlearned; belonging to the laity. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BORROW:  To take (one or more) from the next higher denomination in order to add it to the next lower; -- a term of subtraction when the figure of the subtrahend is larger than the corresponding one of the minuend.  3. To copy or imitate; to adopt; as, to borrow the style, manner, or opinions of another. Rites borrowed from the ancients. Macaulay. It is not hard for any man, who hath a Bible in his hands, to borrow good words and holy sayings in abundance; but to make them his own is a work of grace only from above. Milton.  4. To feign or counterfeit. "Borrowed hair." Spenser. The borrowed majesty of England. Shak.  5. To receive; to take; to derive. Any drop thou borrowedst from thy mother. Shak. To borrow trouble, to be needlessly troubled; to be overapprehensive. 

BORROWER:  One who borrows. Neither a borrower nor a lender be. Shak. 

BORSHOLDER:  The head or chief of a tithing, or borough (see 2d Borough); the headborough; a parish constable. Spelman. 

BORT:  Imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments made in cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used in lapidary work. 

BORURET:  A boride. [Obs.] 

BORWE:  Pledge; borrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BOS:  A genus of ruminant quadrupeds, including the wild and domestic cattle, distinguished by a stout body, hollow horns, and a large fold of skin hanging from the neck. 

BOSA:  A drink, used in the East. See Boza. 

BOSCAGE:  Food or sustenance for cattle, obtained from bushes and trees; also, a tax on wood. 

BOSH:  Figure; outline; show. [Obs.] 

BOSH:  Empty talk; contemptible nonsense; trash; humbug. [Colloq.] 

BOSH:  The lower part of a blast furnace, which slopes inward, or the widest space at the top of this part.  3. In forging and smelting, a trough in which tools and ingots are cooled. 

BOSHBOK:  A kind of antelope. See Bush buck. 

BOSHVARK:  The bush hog. See under Bush, a thicket. 

BOSJESMAN:  ; pl. Bosjesmans. [D. boschjesman.]  See Bushman. 

BOSK:  A thicket; a small wood. "Through bosk and dell." Sir W. Scott. 

BOSKAGE:  Same as Boscage. Thridding the somber boskage of the wood. Tennyson.  BOSKET; BOSQUET Bos"ket, Bos"quet, n. Etym: [F. bosquet a little wood, dim. fr. LL. boscus. See Boscage, and cf. Bouquet.] (Gardening)  A grove; a thicket; shrubbery; an inclosure formed by branches of trees, regularly or irregularly disposed. 

BOSKINESS:  Boscage; also, the state or quality of being bosky. 

BOSOMED:  Having, or resembling, bosom; kept in the bosom; hidden. 

BOSOMY:  Characterized by recesses or sheltered hollows. 

BOSON:  See Boatswain. [Obs.] Dryden. 

BOSPORIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Thracian or the Cimmerian Bosporus. The Alans forced the Bosporian kings to pay them tribute and exterminated the Taurians. Tooke. 

BOSPORUS:  A strait or narrow sea between two seas, or a lake and a seas; as, the Bosporus (formerly the Thracian Bosporus) or Strait of Constantinople, between the Black Sea and Sea of Marmora; the Cimmerian Bosporus, between the Black Sea and Sea of Azof. [Written also Bosphorus.] 

BOSQUET:  See Bosket. 

BOSS:  A projecting ornament placed at the intersection of the ribs of ceilings, whether vaulted or flat, and in other situations.  4. Etym: [Cf. D. bus box, Dan. bösse.]  A wooden vessel for the mortar used in tiling or masonry, hung by a hook from the laths, or from the rounds of a ladder. Gwilt.  5. (Mech.) (a) The enlarged part of a shaft, on which a wheel is keyed, or at the end, where it is coupled to another. (b) A swage or die used for shaping metals.  6. A head or reservoir of water. [Obs.] 

BOSS:  To ornament with bosses; to stud. 

BOSS:  A master workman or superintendent; a director or manager; a political dictator. [Slang, U. S.] 

BOSSAGE:  A stone in a building, left rough and projecting, to be afterward carved into shape. Gwilt.  2. (Arch.)  Rustic work, consisting of stones which seem to advance beyond the level of the building, by reason of indentures or channels left in the joinings. Gwilt. 

BOSSED:  Embossed; also, bossy. 

BOSSET:  A rudimental antler of a young male of the red deer. 

BOSSISM:  The rule or practices of bosses, esp. political bosses. [Slang, U. S.] 

BOSSY:  Ornamented with bosses; studded. 

BOSSY:  A cow or calf; -- familiarly so called. [U. S.] 

BOSTON:  A game at cards, played by four persons, with two packs of fifty-two cards each; -- said to be so called from Boston, Massachusetts, and to have been invented by officers of the French army in America during the Revolutionary war. 

BOSTRYX:  A form of cymose inflorescence with all the flowers on one side of the rachis, usually causing it to curl; -- called also a uniparous helicoid cyme. 

BOSWELLIAN:  Relating to, or characteristic of, Boswell, the biographer of Dr. Johnson. 

BOSWELLISM:  The style of Boswell. 

BOT:  See Bots.  BOTANIC; BOTANICAL Bo*tan"ic, Bo*tan"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. botanique. See Botany.]  Of or pertaining to botany; relating to the study of plants; as, a botanical system, arrangement, textbook, expedition.  -- Botan"ic*al*ly, adv. Botanic garden, a garden devoted to the culture of plants collected for the purpose of illustrating the science of botany.  -- Botanic physician, a physician whose medicines consist chiefly of herbs and roots. 

BOTANIST:  One skilled in botany; one versed in the knowledge of plants. 

BOTANIZE:  To seek after plants for botanical investigation; to study plants. 

BOTANIZE:  To explore for botanical purposes. 

BOTANIZER:  One who botanizes. 

BOTANOLOGER:  A botanist. [Obs.] 

BOTANOLOGY:  The science of botany. [Obs.] Bailey. 

BOTANOMANCY:  An ancient species of divination by means of plants, esp. sage and fig leaves. 

BOTANY:  A harbor on the east coast of Australia, and an English convict settlement there; -- so called from the number of new plants found on its shore at its discovery by Cook in 1770.  Note: Hence, any place to which desperadoes resort. Botany Bay kino (Med.), an astringent, reddish substance consisting of the inspissated juice of several Australian species of Eucalyptus.  -- Botany Bay resin (Med.), a resin of reddish yellow color, resembling gamboge, the product of different Australian species of Xanthorrhæa, esp. the grass three (X. hastilis.) 

BOTARGO:  A sort of cake or sausage, made of the salted roes of the mullet, much used on the coast of the Mediterranean as an incentive to drink. 

BOTCHEDLY:  In a clumsy manner. 

BOTCHER:  A young salmon; a grilse. 

BOTCHERLY:  Bungling; awkward. [R.] 

BOTCHERY:  A botching, or that which is done by botching; clumsy or careless workmanship. 

BOTCHY:  Marked with botches; full of botches; poorly done. "This botchy business." Bp. Watson. 

BOTELESS:  Unavailing; in vain. See Bootless. 

BOTFLY:  A dipterous insect of the family (Estridæ, of many different species, some of which are particularly troublesome to domestic animals, as the horse, ox, and sheep, on which they deposit their eggs. A common species is one of the botflies of the horse (Gastrophilus equi), the larvæ of which (bots) are taken into the stomach of the animal, where they live several months and pass through their larval states. In tropical America one species sometimes lives under the human skin, and another in the stomach. See Gadfly. 

BOTH:  The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of either.  Note: It is generally used adjectively with nouns; as, both horses ran away; but with pronouns, and often with nous, it is used substantively, and followed by of.  Note: It frequently stands as a pronoun. She alone is heir to both of us. Shak. Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech; and both of them made a covenant. Gen. xxi. 27. He will not bear the loss of his rank, because he can bear the loss of his estate; but he will bear both, because he is prepared for both. Bolingbroke.  Note: It is often used in apposition with nouns or pronouns. Thy weal and woe are both of them extremes. Shak. This said, they both betook them several ways. Milton.  Note: Both now always precedes any other attributive words; as, both their armies; both our eyes.  Note: Both of is used before pronouns in the objective case; as, both of us, them, whom, etc.; but before substantives its used is colloquial, both (without of) being the preferred form; as, both the brothers. 

BOTH:  As well; not only; equally.  Note: Both precedes the first of two coördinate words or phrases, and is followed by and before the other, both . . . and . . . ; as well the one as the other; not only this, but also that; equally the former and the latter. It is also sometimes followed by more than two coördinate words, connected by and expressed or understood. To judge both quick and dead. Milton. A masterpiece both for argument and style. Goldsmith. To whom bothe heven and erthe and see is sene. Chaucer. Both mongrel, puppy, whelp, and hound. Goldsmith. He prayeth well who loveth well Both man and bird and beast. Coleridge. 

BOTHER:  To annoy; to trouble; to worry; to perplex. See Pother.  Note: The imperative is sometimes used as an exclamation mildly imprecatory. 

BOTHER:  To feel care or anxiety; to make or take trouble; to be troublesome. Without bothering about it. H. James. 

BOTHER:  One who, or that which, bothers; state of perplexity or annoyance; embarrassment; worry; disturbance; petty trouble; as, to be in a bother. 

BOTHERATION:  The act of bothering, or state of being bothered; cause of trouble; perplexity; annoyance; vexation. [Colloq.] 

BOTHERER:  One who bothers. 

BOTHERSOME:  Vexatious; causing bother; causing trouble or perplexity; troublesome.  BOTH-HANDS Both"-hands`, n.  A factotum. [R.] He is his master's both-hands, I assure you. B. Jonson. 

BOTHIE:  Same as Bothy. [Scot.]  BOTHNIAN; BOTHNIC Both"ni*an, Both"nic, a.  Of or pertaining to Bothnia, a country of northern Europe, or to a gulf of the same name which forms the northern part of the Baltic sea. 

BOTHRENCHYMA:  Dotted or pitted ducts or vessels forming the pores seen in many kinds of wood.  BOTHY; BOOTHY Both"y Booth"y n.; pl. -ies Etym: [Scottish. Cf. Booth.]  A wooden hut or humble cot, esp. a rude hut or barrack for unmarried farm servants; a shepherd's or hunter's hut; a booth. [Scot.] 

BOTOCUDOS:  A Brazilian tribe of Indians, noted for their use of poisons; - - also called Aymborés.  BO TREE Bo" tree`. (Bot.)  The peepul tree; esp., the very ancient tree standing at Anurajahpoora in Ceylon, grown from a slip of the tree under which Gautama is said to have received the heavenly light and so to have become Buddha. The sacred bo tree of the Buddhists (Ficus religiosa), which is planted close to every temple, and attracts almost as much veneration as the status of the god himself. . . . It differs from the banyan (Ficus Indica) by sending down no roots from its branches. Tennent. 

BOTRYOGEN:  A hydrous sulphate of iron of a deep red color. It often occurs in botryoidal form.  BOTRYOID; BOTRYOIDAL Bot"ry*oid, Bot`ry*oid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. cluster of grapes + -oid.]  Having the form of a bunch of grapes; like a cluster of grapes, as a mineral presenting an aggregation of small spherical or spheroidal prominences. 

BOTRYOLITE:  A variety of datolite, usually having a botryoidal structure. 

BOTS:  The larvæ of several species of botfly, especially those larvæ which infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and are supposed to be the cause of various ailments. [Written also botts.]  Note: See Illust. of Botfly. 

BOTTLE:  To put into bottles; to inclose in, or as in, a bottle or bottles; to keep or restrain as in a bottle; as, to bottle wine or porter; to bottle up one's wrath. 

BOTTLE:  A bundle, esp. of hay. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Shak. 

BOTTLED:  A dark shade of green, like that of bottle glass.  -- Bot"tle-green`, a. 

BOTTLEHEAD:  A cetacean allied to the grampus; -- called also bottle-nosed whale.  Note: There are several species so named, as the pilot whales, of the genus Globicephalus, and one or more species of Hyperoödon (H. bidens, etc.), found on the European coast. See Blackfish, 1. 

BOTTLEHOLDER:  An inswept frame. [Colloq.]  BOTTLE-NOSE Bot"tle-nose` (, n. (Zoöl.)  1. A cetacean of the Dolphin family, of several species, as Delphinus Tursio and Lagenorhyncus leucopleurus, of Europe.  2. The puffin.  BOTTLE-NOSED Bot"tle-nosed` (, a.  Having the nose bottleshaped, or large at the end. Dickens. 

BOTTLER:  One who bottles wine, beer, soda water, etc. 

BOTTLESCREW:  A corkscrew. Swift. 

BOTTLING:  The act or the process of putting anything into bottles (as beer, mineral water, etc.) and corking the bottles. 

BOTTOM:  The part of a ship which is ordinarily under water; hence, the vessel itself; a ship. My ventures are not in one bottom trusted. Shak. Not to sell the teas, but to return them to London in the same bottoms in which they were shipped. Bancroft. Full bottom, a hull of such shape as permits carrying a large amount of merchandise.  9. Power of endurance; as, a horse of a good bottom.  10. Dregs or grounds; lees; sediment. Johnson. At bottom, At the bottom, at the foundation or basis; in reality. "He was at the bottom a good man." J. F. Cooper.  -- To be at the bottom of, to be the cause or originator of; to be the source of. [Usually in an opprobrious sense.] J. H. Newman. He was at the bottom of many excellent counsels. Addison. -- To go to the bottom, to sink; esp. to be wrecked.  -- To touch bottom, to reach the lowest point; to find something on which to rest. 

BOTTOM:  Of or pertaining to the bottom; fundamental; lowest; under; as, bottom rock; the bottom board of a wagon box; bottom prices. Bottom glade, a low glade or open place; a valley; a dale. Milton. -Bottom grass, grass growing on bottom lands.  -- Bottom land. See 1st Bottom, n., 7. 

BOTTOM:  A ball or skein of thread; a cocoon. [Obs.] Silkworms finish their bottoms in . . . fifteen days. Mortimer. 

BOTTOM:  To wind round something, as in making a ball of thread. [Obs.] As you unwind her love from him, Lest it should ravel and be good to none, You must provide to bottom it on me. Shak. 

BOTTOMED:  Having at the bottom, or as a bottom; resting upon a bottom; grounded; -- mostly, in composition; as, sharp-bottomed; well- bottomed.  BOTTOM FERMENTATION Bot"tom fer`men*ta"tion.  A slow alcoholic fermentation during which the yeast cells collect at the bottom of the fermenting liquid. It takes place at a temperature of 4º - 10º C. (39º - 50ºF.). It is used in making lager beer and wines of low alcohol content but fine bouquet. 

BOTTOMLESS:  Without a bottom; hence, fathomless; baseless; as, a bottomless abyss. "Bottomless speculations." Burke. 

BOTTOMRY:  A contract in the nature of a mortgage, by which the owner of a ship, or the master as his agent, hypothecates and binds the ship (and sometimes the accruing freight) as security for the repayment of money advanced or lent for the use of the ship, if she terminates her voyage successfully. If the ship is lost by perils of the sea, the lender loses the money; but if the ship arrives safe, he is to receive the money lent, with the interest or premium stipulated, although it may, and usually does, exceed the legal rate of interest. See Hypothecation.  BOTTONY; BOTTONE Bot"ton*y, Bot"to*né, a. Etym: [F. boutonné, fr. boutonner to bud, button.] (Her.)  Having a bud or button, or a kind of trefoil, at the end; furnished with knobs or buttons. Cross bottony (Her.), a cross having each arm terminating in three rounded lobes, forming a sort of trefoil. 

BOTTS:  See Bots. 

BOTULIFORM:  Having the shape of a sausage. Henslow. 

BOUCHE:  Same as Bush, a lining. 

BOUCHE:  Same as Bush, to line.  BOUCHE; BOUCH Bouche, Bouch, n. Etym: [F. bouche mouth, victuals.]  1. A mouth. [Obs.]  2. An allowance of meat and drink for the tables of inferior officers or servants in a nobleman's palace or at court. [Obs.] 

BOUCHEES:  Small patties. 

BOUCHERIZE:  To impregnate with a preservative solution of copper sulphate, as timber, railroad ties, etc. 

BOUD:  A weevil; a worm that breeds in malt, biscuit, etc. [Obs.] Tusser., n. Etym: [F., fr. bouder to pout, be sulky.]  A small room, esp. if pleasant, or elegantly furnished, to which a lady may retire to be alone, or to receive intimate friends; a lady's (or sometimes a gentleman's) private room. Cowper. 

BOUDOIR:  A small room, esp. if pleasant, or elegantly furnished, to which a lady may retire to be alone, or to receive intimate friends; a lady's (or sometimes a gentleman's) private room. Cowper. 

BOUFFE:  Comic opera. See Opera Bouffe. 

BOUGAINVILLAEA:  A genus of plants of the order Nyctoginaceæ, from tropical South America, having the flowers surrounded by large bracts. 

BOUGE:  To stave in; to bilge. [Obs.] Holland. 

BOUGE:  Bouche (see Bouche, 2); food and drink; provisions. [Obs.] [They] made room for a bombardman that brought bouge for a country lady or two, that fainted . . . with fasting. B. Jonson . 

BOUGET:  A charge representing a leather vessel for carrying water; -- also called water bouget. 

BOUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Buy. 

BOUGHT:  Purchased; bribed. 

BOUGHTEN:  Purchased; not obtained or produced at home. Coleridge. 

BOUGHTY:  Bending. [Obs.] Sherwood. 

BOUGIE:  A long, flexible instrument, that is  Note: introduced into the urethra, esophagus, etc., to remove obstructions, or for the other purposes. It was originally made of waxed linen rolled into cylindrical form.  2. (Pharm.)  A long slender rod consisting of gelatin or some other substance that melts at the temperature of the body. It is impregnated with medicine, and designed for introduction into urethra, etc.  BOUGIE DECIMALE Bou*gie" dé`ci`male". [F., lit., decimal candle.]  A photometric standard used in France, having the value of one twentieth of the Violle platinum standard, or slightly less than a British standard candle. Called also decimal candle. 

BOUILLI:  Boiled or stewed meat; beef boiled with vegetables in water from which its gravy is to be made; beef from which bouillon or soup has been made. 

BOUILLON:  An excrescence on a horse's frush or frog. 

BOUL:  A curved handle. Sir W. Scott. 

BOULANGERITE:  A mineral of a bluish gray color and metallic luster, usually in plumose masses, also compact. It is sulphide of antimony and lead. 

BOULANGISM:  The spirit or principles of a French political movement identified with Gen. Georges Boulanger (d. 1891), whose militarism and advocacy of revenge on Germany attracted to him a miscellaneous party of monarchists and Republican malcontents. -- Bou*lan"gist (#), n. 

BOULDER:  Same as Bowlder. 

BOULDERY:  Characterized by bowlders.  BOULE; BOULEWORK Boule, Boule"work`, n.  Same as Buhl, Buhlwork. 

BOULEVARDIER:  A frequenter of a city boulevard, esp. in Paris.  F. Harrison. 

BOULEVERSEMENT:  Complete overthrow; disorder; a turning upside down. 

BOULT:  Corrupted form Bolt. 

BOULT:  Corrupted form Bolt.  BOULTEL; BOULTIN Boul"tel, Boul"tin, n. (Arch.) (a) A molding, the convexity of which is one fourth of a circle, being a member just below the abacus in the Tuscan and Roman Doric capital; a torus; an ovolo. (b) One of the shafts of a clustered column. [Written also bowtel, boltel, boultell, etc.] 

BOULTER:  A long, stout fishing line to which many hooks are attached. 

BOUN:  Ready; prepared; destined; tending. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BOUN:  To make or get ready. Sir W. Scott. 

BOUNCE:  A dogfish of Europe (Scyllium catulus). 

BOUNCE:  With a sudden leap; suddenly. This impudent puppy comes bounce in upon me. Bickerstaff. 

BOUNCINGLY:  With a bounce. 

BOUND:  The external or limiting line, either real or imaginary, of any object or space; that which limits or restrains, or within which something is limited or restrained; limit; confine; extent; boundary. He hath compassed the waters with bounds. Job xxvi. 10. On earth's remotest bounds. Campbell. And mete the bounds of hate and love. Tennyson. To keep within bounds, not to exceed or pass beyond assigned limits; to act with propriety or discretion.  Syn.  -- See Boundary. 

BOUND:  Spring from one foot to the other. 

BOUND:  imp. & p. p. of Bind. 

BOUND:  Ready or intending to go; on the way toward; going; -- with to or for, or with an adverb of motion; as, a ship is bound to Cadiz, or for Cadiz. "The mariner bound homeward." Cowper. 

BOUNDARY:  That which indicates or fixes a limit or extent, or marks a bound, as of a territory; a bounding or separating line; a real or imaginary limit. But still his native country lies Beyond the boundaries of the skies. N. Cotton. That bright and tranquil stream, the boundary of Louth and Meath. Macaulay. Sensation and reflection are the boundaries of our thoughts. Locke.  Syn.  -- Limit; bound; border; term; termination; barrier; verge; confines; precinct. Bound, Boundary. Boundary, in its original and strictest sense, is a visible object or mark indicating a limit. Bound is the limit itself. But in ordinary usage the two words are made interchangeable. 

BOUNDER:  One who, or that which, limits; a boundary. Sir T. Herbert. 

BOUNDING:  Moving with a bound or bounds. The bounding pulse, the languid limb. Montgomery. 

BOUNDLESS:  Without bounds or confines; illimitable; vast; unlimited. "The boundless sky." Bryant. "The boundless ocean." Dryden. "Boundless rapacity." "Boundless prospect of gain." Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Unlimited; unconfined; immeasurable; illimitable; infinite.  -- Bound"less*ly, adv.  -- Bound"less*ness, n. 

BOUNTEOUS:  Liberal in charity; disposed to give freely; generously liberal; munificent; beneficent; free in bestowing gifts; as, bounteous production. But O, thou bounteous Giver of all good. Cowper. -- Boun"te*ous*ly, adv.  -- Boun"te*ous*ness, n. 

BOUNTIFUL:  Goodness; generosity. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BOUQUETIN:  The ibex. 

BOUR:  A chamber or a cottage. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BOURBONISM:  The principles of those adhering to the house of Bourbon; obstinate conservatism. 

BOURBONIST:  One who adheres to the house of Bourbon; a legitimist.  BOURBON WHISKY Bour"bon whis"ky.  See under Whisky. 

BOURD:  A jest. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BOURD:  To jest. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BOURDER:  A jester. [Obs.] 

BOURDON:  A pilgrim's staff. 

BOURGEOIS:  A size of type between long primer and brevier. See Type.  Note: This line is printed in bourgeois type. 

BOURGEOIS:  A man of middle rank in society; one of the shopkeeping class. [France.] a.  Characteristic of the middle class, as in France. 

BOURGEOISIE:  The French middle class, particularly such as are concerned in, or dependent on, trade. 

BOURGEON:  To sprout; to put forth buds; to shoot forth, as a branch. Gayly to bourgeon and broadly to grow. Sir W. Scott. 

BOURI:  A mullet (Mugil capito) found in the rivers of Southern Europe and in Africa.  BOURN; BOURNE Bourn, Bourne, n. Etym: [OE. burne, borne, AS. burna; akin to OS. brunno spring, G. born, brunnen, OHG. prunno, Goth. brunna, Icel. brunnr, and perh. to Gr. burn, v., because the source of a stream seems to issue forth bubbling and boiling from the earth. Cf. Torrent, and see Burn, v.]  A stream or rivulet; a burn. My little boat can safely pass this perilous bourn. Spenser.  BOURN; BOURNE Bourn, Bourne, n. Etym: [F. borne. See Bound a limit.]  A bound; a boundary; a limit. Hence: Point aimed at; goal. Where the land slopes to its watery bourn. Cowper. The undiscovered country, from whose bourn No traveler returns. Shak. Sole bourn, sole wish, sole object of my song. Wordsworth. To make the doctrine . . . their intellectual bourne. Tyndall. 

BOURNLESS:  Without a bourn or limit. 

BOURNONITE:  A mineral of a steel-gray to black color and metallic luster, occurring crystallized, often in twin crystals shaped like cogwheels (wheel ore), also massive. It is a sulphide of antimony, lead, and copper. 

BOURNOUS:  See Burnoose. 

BOURREE:  An old French dance tune in common time. 

BOURSE:  An exchange, or place where merchants, bankers, etc., meet for business at certain hours; esp., the Stock Exchange of Paris. 

BOUSE:  To drink immoderately; to carouse; to booze. See Booze. 

BOUSE:  Drink, esp. alcoholic drink; also, a carouse; a booze. "A good bouse of liquor." Carlyle. 

BOUSER:  A toper; a boozer. 

BOUSTROPHEDON:  An ancient mode of writing, in alternate directions, one line from left to right, and the next from right to left (as fields are plowed), as in early Greek and Hittite. 

BOUSTROPHEDONIC:  Relating to the boustrophedon mode of writing. 

BOUSTROPHIC:  Boustrophedonic. 

BOUSY:  Drunken; sotted; boozy. In his cups the bousy poet songs. Dryden. 

BOUTADE:  An outbreak; a caprice; a whim. [Obs.] 

BOUTEFEU:  An incendiary; an inciter of quarrels. [Obs.] Animated by . . . John à Chamber, a very boutefeu, . . . they entered into open rebellion. Bacon. 

BOUTONNIERE:  A bouquet worn in a buttonhole.  BOUTS-RIMES Bouts`-ri*més", n. pl. Etym: [F. bout end + rimé rhymed.]  Words that rhyme, proposed as the ends of verses, to be filled out by the ingenuity of the person to whom they are offered. 

BOVATE:  An oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; an ancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usually estimated at fifteen acres.  BOVEY COAL Bo"vey coal`. (Min.)  A kind of mineral coal, or brown lignite, burning with a weak flame, and generally a disagreeable odor; -- found at Bovey Tracey, Devonshire, England. It is of geological age of the oölite, and not of the true coal era. 

BOVID:  Relating to that tribe of ruminant mammals of which the genus Bos is the type. 

BOVIFORM:  Resembling an ox in form; ox-shaped. [R.] 

BOVINE:  of or pertaining to the genus Bos; relating to, or resembling, the ox or cow; oxlike; as, the bovine genus; a bovine antelope.  2. Having qualities characteristic of oxen or cows; sluggish and patient; dull; as, a bovine temperament. The bovine gaze of gaping rustics. W. Black. 

BOW:  An inclination of the head, or a bending of the body, in token of reverence, respect, civility, or submission; an obeisance; as, a bow of deep humility. 

BOW:  An appliance consisting of an elastic rod, with a number of horse hairs stretched from end to end of it, used in playing on a stringed instrument.  6. An acrograph.  7. (Mech. & Manuf.)  Any instrument consisting of an elastic rod, with ends connected by a string, employed for giving reciprocating motion to a drill, or for preparing and arranging the hair, fur, etc., used by hatters.  8. (Naut.)  A rude sort of quadrant formerly used for taking the sun's altitude at sea.  9. (Saddlery) sing. or pl.  Two pieces of wood which form the arched forward part of a saddletree. Bow bearer (O. Eng. Law), an under officer of the forest who looked after trespassers.  -- Bow drill, a drill worked by a bow and string.  -- Bow instrument (Mus.), any stringed instrument from which the tones are produced by the bow.  -- Bow window (Arch.) See Bay window.  -- To draw a long bow, to lie; to exaggerate. [Colloq.] 

BOW:  To play (music) with a bow.  -- v. i.  To manage the bow. 

BOW:  The bending or rounded part of a ship forward; the stream or prow.  2. (Naut.)  One who rows in the forward part of a boat; the bow oar. Bow chaser (Naut.), a gun in the bow for firing while chasing another vessel. Totten. - Bow piece, a piece of ordnance carried at the bow of a ship.  -- On the bow (Naut.), on that part of the horizon within 45º on either side of the line ahead. Totten. 

BOWABLE:  Capable of being bowed or bent; flexible; easily influenced; yielding. [Obs.] 

BOWBELL:  One born within hearing distance of Bow-bells; a cockney. Halliwell.  BOW-BELLS Bow"-bells`, n. pl.  The bells of Bow Church in London; cockneydom. People born within the sound of Bow-bells are usually called cockneys. Murray's Handbook of London. 

BOWBENT:  Bent, like a bow. Milton.  BOW-COMPASS Bow"-com`pass, n.; pl. Bow-compasses (.  1. An arcograph.  2. A small pair of compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil, or a pen, for drawing circles. Its legs are often connected by a bow- shaped spring, instead of by a joint.  3. A pair of compasses, with a bow or arched plate riveted to one of the legs, and passing through the other. 

BOWDLERIZE:  To expurgate, as a book, by omitting or modifying the parts considered offensive.  It is a grave defect in the splendid tale of Tom Jones . . . that a Bowlderized version of it would be hardly intelligible as a tale. F. Harrison.  -- Bowd`ler*i*za"tion (#), n. --Bowd"ler*ism (#), n. 

BOWEL:  Hence, figuratively: The interior part of anything; as, the bowels of the earth. His soldiers . . . cried out amain, And rushed into the bowels of the battle. Shak.  3. pl.  The seat of pity or kindness. Hence: Tenderness; compassion. "Thou thing of no bowels." Shak. Bloody Bonner, that corpulent tyrant, full (as one said) of guts, and empty of bowels. Fuller.  4. pl.  Offspring. [Obs.] Shak. 

BOWEL:  To take out the bowels of; to eviscerate; to disembowel. 

BOWELED:  Having bowels; hollow. "The boweled cavern." Thomson. 

BOWELLESS:  Without pity. Sir T. Browne. 

BOWENITE:  A hard, compact variety of serpentine found in Rhode Island. It is of a light green color and resembles jade. 

BOWER:  An anchor carried at the bow of a ship.  3. A muscle that bends a limb, esp. the arm. [Obs.] His rawbone arms, whose mighty brawned bowers Were wont to rive steel plates and helmets hew. Spenser. Best bower, Small bower. See the Note under Anchor. 

BOWER:  One of the two highest cards in the pack commonly used in the game of euchre. Right bower, the knave of the trump suit, the highest card (except the "Joker") in the game.  -- Left bower, the knave of the other suit of the same color as the trump, being the next to the right bower in value.  -- Best bower or Joker, in some forms of euchre and some other games, an extra card sometimes added to the pack, which takes precedence of all others as the highest card. 

BOWER:  To embower; to inclose. Shak. 

BOWER:  To lodge. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BOWER:  A young hawk, when it begins to leave the nest. [Obs.]  BOWER-BARFF PROCESS Bow"er-Barff" proc`ess . (Metal.)  A certain process for producing upon articles of iron or steel an adherent coating of the magnetic oxide of iron (which is not liable to corrosion by air, moisture, or ordinary acids). This is accomplished by producing, by oxidation at about 1600º F. in a closed space, a coating containing more or less of the ferric oxide (Fe2O3) and the subsequent change of this in a reduced atmosphere to the magnetic oxide (Fe2O4).  BOWER BIRD Bow"er bird`. (Zoöl.)  An Australian bird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus or holosericeus), allied to the starling, which constructs singular bowers or playhouses of twigs and decorates them with brightcolored objects; the satin bird.  Note: The name is also applied to other related birds of the same region, having similar habits; as, the spotted bower bird (Chalmydodera maculata), and the regent bird (Sericulus melinus). 

BOWERY:  Shading, like a bower; full of bowers. A bowery maze that shades the purple streams. Trumbull. 

BOWERY:  A farm or plantation with its buildings. [U.S.Hist.] The emigrants [in New York] were scattered on boweries or plantations; and seeing the evils of this mode of living widely apart, they were advised, in 1643 and 1646, by the Dutch authorities, to gather into "villages, towns, and hamlets, as the English were in the habit of doing." Bancroft. 

BOWERY:  Characteristic of the street called the Bowery, in New York city; swaggering; flashy. 

BOWESS:  Same as Bower. [Obs.] 

BOWFIN:  A voracious ganoid fish (Amia calva) found in the fresh waters of the United States; the mudfish; -- called also Johnny Grindle, and dogfish. 

BOWGE:  To swell out. See Bouge. [Obs.] 

BOWGE:  To cause to leak. [Obs.] See Bouge. 

BOWGRACE:  A frame or fender of rope or junk, laid out at the sides or bows of a vessel to secure it from injury by floating ice.  BOW HAND Bow" hand`.  1. (Archery)  The hand that holds the bow, i. e., the left hand. Surely he shoots wide on the bow hand. Spenser.  2. (Mus.)  The hand that draws the bow, i. e., the right hand. 

BOWHEAD:  The great Arctic or Greenland whale. (Balæna mysticetus). See Baleen, and Whale.  BOWIE KNIFE Bow"ie knife`.  A knife with a strong blade from ten to fifteen inches long, and double-edged near the point; -- used as a hunting knife, and formerly as a weapon in the southwestern part of the United States. It was named from its inventor, Colonel James Bowie. Also, by extension, any large sheath knife. 

BOWINGLY:  In a bending manner. 

BOWKNOT:  A knot in which a portion of the string is drawn through in the form of a loop or bow, so as to be readily untied. 

BOWL:  An ancient game, popular in Great Britain, played with biased balls on a level plat of greensward. Like an uninstructed bowler, . . . who thinks to attain the jack by delivering his bowl straightforward upon it. Sir W. Scott.  3. pl.  The game of tenpins or bowling. [U.S.] 

BOWL:  A mass of any rock, whether rounded or not, that has been transported by natural agencies from its native bed. See Drift. Bowlder clay, the unstratified clay deposit of the Glacial or Drift epoch, often containing large numbers of bowlders.  -- Bowlder wall, a wall constructed of large stones or bowlders. 

BOWLDERY:  Characterized by bowlders. 

BOWLEG:  A crooked leg. Jer. Taylor.  BOW-LEGGED Bow"-legged`, a.  Having crooked legs, esp. with the knees bent outward. Johnson. 

BOWLER:  One who plays at bowls, or who rolls the ball in cricket or any other game. 

BOWLESS:  Destitute of a bow. 

BOWLINE:  A rope fastened near the middle of the leech or perpendicular edge of the square sails, by subordinate ropes, called bridles, and used to keep the weather edge of the sail tight forward, when the ship is closehauled. Bowline bridles, the ropes by which the bowline is fastened to the leech of the sail.  -- Bowline knot. See Illust. under Knot.  -- On a bowline, close-hauled or sailing close to the wind; -- said of a ship. 

BOWLING:  The act of playing at or rolling bowls, or of rolling the ball at cricket; the game of bowls or of tenpins. Bowling alley, a covered place for playing at bowls or tenpins.  -- Bowling green, a level piece of greensward or smooth ground for bowling, as the small park in lower Broadway, New York, where the Dutch of New Amsterdam played this game. 

BOWLS:  See Bowl, a ball, a game. 

BOWMAN:  A man who uses a bow; an archer. The whole city shall flee for the noise of the horsemen and bowmen. Jer. iv. 29. Bowman's root. (Bot.) See Indian physic, under Indian. 

BOWMAN:  The man who rows the foremost oar in a boat; the bow oar. 

BOWNE:  To make ready; to prepare; to dress. [Obs.] We will all bowne ourselves for the banquet. Sir W. Scott.  BOW NET Bow" net`  .  1. A trap for lobsters, being a wickerwork cylinder with a funnel- shaped entrance at one end.  2. A net for catching birds. J. H. Walsh.  BOW OAR Bow" oar`  .  1. The oar used by the bowman.  2. One who rows at the bow of a boat.  BOW-PEN Bow"-pen`, n.  Bow-compasses carrying a drawing pen. See Bow-compass.  BOW-PENCIL Bow"-pen`cil, n.  Bow-compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil.  BOW-SAW Bow"-saw`, n.  A saw with a thin or narrow blade set in a strong frame. 

BOWSE:  To pull or haul; as, to bowse upon a tack; to bowse away, i. e., to pull all together. 

BOWSE:  A carouse; a drinking bout; a booze. 

BOWSHOT:  The distance traversed by an arrow shot from a bow. 

BOWSPRIT:  A large boom or spar, which projects over the stem of a ship or other vessel, to carry sail forward. 

BOWSSEN:  To drench; to soak; especially, to immerse (in water believed to have curative properties). [Obs.] There were many bowssening places, for curing of mad men. . . . If there appeared small amendment he was bowssened again and again. Carew. 

BOWSTRING:  To strangle with a bowstring. 

BOWTEL:  See Boultel. 

BOWWOW:  An onomatopoetic name for a dog or its bark.  -- a.  Onomatopoetic; as, the bowwow theory of language; a bowwow word. [Jocose.] 

BOX:  A tree or shrub, flourishing in different parts of the world. The common box (Buxus sempervirens) has two varieties, one of which, the dwaft box (B.suffruticosa), is much used for borders in gardens. The wood of the tree varieties, being very hard and smooth, is extensively used in the arts, as by turners, engravers, mathematical instrument makers, etc. Box elder, the ash-leaved maple (Negundo aceroides), of North America.  -- Box holly, the butcher's broom (Russus aculeatus).  -- Box thorn, a shrub (Lycium barbarum).  -- Box tree, the tree variety of the common box. 

BOX:  The square in which the pitcher stands.  11. (Zoöl.)  A Mediterranean food fish; the bogue.  Note: Box is much used adjectively or in composition; as box lid, box maker, box circle, etc.; also with modifying substantives; as money box, letter box, bandbox, hatbox or hat box, snuff box or snuffbox. Box beam (Arch.), a beam made of metal plates so as to have the form of a long box.  -- Box car (Railroads), a freight car covered with a roof and inclosed on the sides to protect its contents.  -- Box chronometer, a ship's chronometer, mounted in gimbals, to preserve its proper position.  -- Box coat, a thick overcoat for driving; sometimes with a heavy cape to carry off the rain.  -- Box coupling, a metal collar uniting the ends of shafts or other parts in machinery.  -- Box crab (Zoöl.), a crab of the genus Calappa, which, when at rest with the legs retracted, resembles a box.  -- Box drain (Arch.), a drain constructed with upright sides, and with flat top and bottom.  -- Box girder (Arch.), a box beam.  -- Box groove (Metal Working), a closed groove between two rolls, formed by a collar on one roll fitting between collars on another. R. W. Raymond.  -- Box metal, an alloy of copper and tin, or of zinc, lead, and antimony, for the bearings of journals, etc.  -- Box plait, a plait that doubles both to the rigth and the left.  -- Box turtle or Box tortoise (Zoöl.), a land tortoise or turtle of the genera Cistudo and Emys; -- so named because it can withdraw entirely within its shell, which can be closed by hinged joints in the lower shell. Also, humorously, an exceedingly reticent person. Emerson.  -- In a box, in a perplexity or an embarrassing position; in difficulty. (Colloq.) -- In the wrong box, out of one's place; out of one's element; awkwardly situated. (Colloq.) Ridley (1554) 

BOX:  To inclose with boarding, lathing, etc., so as to bring to a required form. To box a tree, to make an incision or hole in a tree for the purpose of procuring the sap.  -- To box off, to divide into tight compartments.  -- To box up. (a) To put into a box in order to save; as, he had boxed up twelve score pounds. (b) To confine; as, to be boxed up in narrow quarters. 

BOX:  A blow on the head or ear with the hand. A good-humored box on the ear. W. Irving. 

BOX:  To fight with the fist; to combat with, or as with, the hand or fist; to spar. 

BOX:  To strike with the hand or fist, especially to strike on the ear, or on the side of the head. 

BOX:  To boxhaul. To box off (Naut.), to turn the head of a vessel either way by bracing the headyards aback.  -- To box the compass (Naut.), to name the thirty-two points of the compass in their order. 

BOXBERRY:  The wintergreern. (Gaultheria procumbens). [Local, U.S.] 

BOXEN:  Made of boxwood; pertaining to, or resembling, the box (Buxus). [R.] The faded hue of sapless boxen leaves. Dryden. 

BOXER:  One who packs boxes. 

BOXER:  One who boxes; a pugilist. 

BOXFISH:  The trunkfish. 

BOXHAUL:  To put (a vessel) on the other tack by veering her short round on her heel; -- so called from the circumstance of bracing the head yards abox (i. e., sharp aback, on the wind). Totten. 

BOXHAULING:  A method of going from one tack to another. See Boxhaul. 

BOXING:  The external case of thin material used to bring any member to a required form. 

BOXING:  The act of fighting with the fist; a combat with the fist; sparring. Blackstone. Boxing glove, a large padded mitten or glove used in sparring for exercise or amusement.  BOXING DAY Box"ing day`.  The first week day after Christmas, a legal holiday on which Christmas boxes are given to postmen, errand boys, employees, etc. The night of this day is boxing night. [Eng.]  BOX-IRON Box"-i`ron, n.  A hollow smoothing iron containing a heater within. 

BOXKEEPER:  An attendant at a theater who has charge of the boxes.  BOX KITE Box kite.  A kite, invented by Lawrence Hargrave, of Sydney, Australia, which consist of two light rectangular boxes, or cells open on two sides, and fastened together horizontally. Called also Hargrave, or cellular, kite.  BOX TAIL Box tail. (Aëronautics)  In a flying machine, a tail or rudder, usually fixed, resembling a box kite. 

BOXTHORN:  A plant of the genus Lycium, esp. Lycium barbarum. 

BOXWOOD:  The wood of the box (Buxus). 

BOY:  A male child, from birth to the age of puberty; a lad; hence, a son. My only boy fell by the side of great Dundee. Sir W. Scott.  Note: Boy is often used as a term of comradeship, as in college, or in the army or navy. In the plural used colloquially of members of an assosiaton, fraternity, or party. Boy bishop, a boy (usually a chorister) elected bishop, in old Christian sports, and invested with robes and other insignia. He practiced a kind of mimicry of the ceremonies in which the bishop usually officiated. The Old Boy, the Devil. [Slang] -- Yellow boys, guineas. [Slang, Eng.] -- Boy's love, a popular English name of Southernwood (Artemisia abrotonum);) -- called also lad's love.  -- Boy's play, childish amusements; anything trifling. 

BOY:  To act as a boy; -- in allusion to the former practice of boys acting women's parts on the stage. I shall see Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness. Shak.  BOYAR; BOYARD Bo*yar", Bo*yard", n. Etym: [Russ. boiárin'.]  A member of a Russian aristocratic order abolished by Peter the Great. Also, one of a privileged class in Roumania.  Note: English writers sometimes call Russian landed proprietors boyars. 

BOYAU:  A winding or zigzag trench forming a path or communication from one siegework to another, to a magazine, etc. 

BOYCOTT:  To combine against (a landlord, tradesman, employer, or other person), to withhold social or business relations from him, and to deter others from holding such relations; to subject to a boycott. 

BOYCOTT:  The process, fact, or pressure of boycotting; a combining to withhold or prevent dealing or social intercourse with a tradesman, employer, etc.; social and business interdiction for the purpose of coercion. 

BOYCOTTER:  A participant in boycotting. 

BOYCOTTISM:  Methods of boycotters. 

BOYDEKIN:  A dagger; a bodkin. [Obs.] 

BOYER:  A Flemish sloop with a castle at each end. Sir W. Raleigh. 

BOYHOOD:  The state of being a boy; the time during which one is a boy. Hood. 

BOYISH:  Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy; childish; trifling; puerile. A boyish, odd conceit. Baillie. 

BOYISHLY:  In a boyish manner; like a boy. 

BOYISHNESS:  The manners or behavior of a boy. 

BOYISM:  See under Law.  BOY SCOUT Boy scout.  Orig., a member of the "Boy Scouts," an organization of boys founded in 1908, by Sir R. S. S. Baden-Powell, to promote good citizenship by creating in them a spirit of civic duty and of usefulness to others, by stimulating their interest in wholesome mental, moral, industrial, and physical activities, etc. Hence, a member of any of the other similar organizations, which are now worldwide. In "The Boy Scouts of America" the local councils are generally under a scout commissioner, under whose supervision are scout masters, each in charge of a troop of two or more patrols of eight scouts each, who are of three classes, tenderfoot, second-class scout, and first-class scout. 

BOZA:  An acidulated fermented drink of the Arabs and Egyptians, made from millet seed and various astringent substances; also, an intoxicating beverage made from hemp seed, darnel meal, and water. [Written also bosa, bozah, bouza.] 

BRABANTINE:  Pertaining to Brabant, an ancient province of the Netherlands. 

BRABBLE:  To clamor; to contest noisily. [R.] 

BRABBLE:  A broil; a noisy contest; a wrangle. This petty brabble will undo us all. Shak. 

BRABBLEMENT:  A brabble. [R.] Holland. 

BRABBLER:  A clamorous, quarrelsome, noisy fellow; a wrangler. [R] Shak. 

BRACCATE:  Furnished with feathers which conceal the feet. 

BRACE:  A piece of material used to transmit, or change the direction of, weight or pressure; any one of the pieces, in a frame or truss, which divide the structure into triangular parts. It may act as a tie, or as a strut, and serves to prevent distortion of the structure, and transverse strains in its members. A boiler brace is a diagonal stay, connecting the head with the shell.  5. (Print.)  A vertical curved line connecting two or more words or lines, which are to be taken together; thus, boll, bowl; or, in music, used to connect staves.  6. (Naut.)  A rope reeved through a block at the end of a yard, by which the yard is moved horizontally; also, a rudder gudgeon.  7. (Mech.)  A curved instrument or handle of iron or wood, for holding and turning bits, etc.; a bitstock.  8. A pair; a couple; as, a brace of ducks; now rarely applied to persons, except familiarly or with some contempt. "A brace of greyhounds." Shak. He is said to have shot . . . fifty brace of pheasants. Addison. A brace of brethren, both bishops, both eminent for learning and religion, now appeared in the church. Fuller. But you, my brace of lords. Shak.  9. pl.  Straps or bands to sustain trousers; suspenders. I embroidered for you a beautiful pair of braces. Thackeray.  10. Harness; warlike preparation. [Obs.] For that it stands not in such warlike brace. Shak.  11. Armor for the arm; vantbrace.  12. (Mining)  The mouth of a shaft. [Cornwall] Angle brace. See under Angle. 

BRACE:  To move around by means of braces; as, to brace the yards. To brace about (Naut.), to turn (a yard) round for the contrary tack.  -- To brace a yard (Naut.), to move it horizontally by means of a brace.  -- To brace in (Naut.), to turn (a yard) by hauling in the weather brace.  -- To brace one's self, to call up one's energies. "He braced himself for an effort which he was little able to make." J. D. Forbes. - To brace to (Naut.), to turn (a yard) by checking or easing off the lee brace, and hauling in the weather one, to assist in tacking.  -- To brace up (Naut.), to bring (a yard) nearer the direction of the keel by hauling in the lee brace.  -- To brace up sharp (Naut.), to turn (a yard) as far forward as the rigging will permit. 

BRACE:  To get tone or vigor; to rouse one's energies; -with up. [Colloq.] 

BRACH:  A bitch of the hound kind. Shak. 

BRACHELYTRA:  A group of beetles having short elytra, as the rove beetles. 

BRACHIA:  See Brachium. 

BRACHIAL:  Pertaining or belonging to the arm; as, the brachial artery; the brachial nerve.  2. Of the nature of an arm; resembling an arm. 

BRACHIATA:  A division of the Crinoidea, including those furnished with long jointed arms. See Crinoidea. 

BRACHIATE:  Having branches in pairs, decussated, all nearly horizontal, and each pair at right angles with the next, as in the maple and lilac. 

BRACHIOGANOID:  One of the Brachioganoidei. 

BRACHIOGANOIDEI:  An order of ganoid fishes of which the bichir of Africa is a living example. See Crossopterygii. 

BRACHIOLARIA:  (Zoöl.) A peculiar early larval stage of certain starfishes, having a bilateral structure, and swimming by means of bands of vibrating cilia. 

BRACHIOPOD:  One of the Brachiopoda, or its shell. 

BRACHIOPODA:  A class of Molluscoidea having a symmetrical bivalve shell, often attached by a fleshy peduncle.  Note: Within the shell is a pair of "arms," often long and spirally coiled, bearing rows of ciliated tentacles by which a current of water is made to flow into the mantle cavity, bringing the microscopic food to the mouth between the bases of the arms. The shell is both opened and closed by special muscles. They form two orders; Lyopoma, in which the shell is thin, and without a distinct hinge, as in Lingula; and Arthropoma, in which the firm calcareous shell has a regular hinge, as in Rhynchonella. See Arthropomata. 

BRACHIUM:  The upper arm; the segment of the fore limb between the shoulder and the elbow. 

BRACHMAN:  See Brahman. [Obs.] 

BRACHYCATALECTIC:  A verse wanting two syllables at its termination.  BRACHYCEPHALIC; BRACHYCEPHALOUS Brach`y*ce*phal"ic, Brach`y*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)  Having the skull short in proportion to its breadth; shortheaded; -- in distinction from dolichocephalic.  BRACHYCEPHALY; BRACHYCEPHALISM Brach`y*ceph"a*ly, Brach`y*ceph"a*lism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Brachycéphalie] . (Anat.)  The state or condition of being brachycephalic; shortness of head. 

BRACHYCERAL:  Having short antennæ, as certain insects. 

BRACHYDIAGONAL:  Pertaining to the shorter diagonal, as of a rhombic prism. Brachydiagonal axis, the shorter lateral axis of an orthorhombic crystal. 

BRACHYDIAGONAL:  The shorter of the diagonals in a rhombic prism. 

BRACHYDOME:  A dome parallel to the shorter lateral axis. See Dome. 

BRACHYGRAPHER:  A writer in short hand; a stenographer. He asked the brachygrapher whether he wrote the notes of the sermon. Gayton. 

BRACHYGRAPHY:  Stenograhy. B. Jonson. 

BRACHYLOGY:  Conciseness of expression; brevity. 

BRACHYPINACOID:  A plane of an orthorhombic crystal which is parallel both to the vertical axis and to the shorter lateral (brachydiagonal) axis. 

BRACHYPTERA:  A group of Coleoptera having short wings; the rove beetles. 

BRACHYPTERES:  A group of birds, including auks, divers, and penguins. 

BRACHYPTEROUS:  Having short wings. 

BRACHYSTOCHRONE:  A curve, in which a body, starting from a given point, and descending solely by the force of gravity, will reach another given point in a shorter time than it could by any other path. This curve of quickest descent, as it is sometimes called, is, in a vacuum, the same as the cycloid. 

BRACHYTYPOUS:  Of a short form. 

BRACHYURA:  A group of decapod Crustacea, including the common crabs, characterized by a small and short abdomen, which is bent up beneath the large cephalo-thorax. [Also spelt Brachyoura.] See Crab, and Illustration in Appendix.  BRACHYURAL; BRACHYUROUS Brach`y*u"ral, Brach`y*u"rous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. brachyure.] (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Brachyura. 

BRACHYURAN:  One of the Brachyura. 

BRACING:  Imparting strength or tone; strengthening; invigorating; as, a bracing north wind. 

BRACING:  Any system of braces; braces, collectively; as, the bracing of a truss. 

BRACK:  An opening caused by the parting of any solid body; a crack or breach; a flaw. Stain or brack in her sweet reputation. J. Fletcher. 

BRACK:  Salt or brackish water. [Obs.] Drayton. 

BRACKEN:  A brake or fern. Sir W. Scott. 

BRACKET:  An architectural member, plain or ornamental, projecting from a wall or pier, to support weight falling outside of the same; also, a decorative feature seeming to discharge such an office.  Note: This is the more general word. See Brace, Cantalever, Console, Corbel, Strut.  2. (Engin. & Mech.)  A piece or combination of pieces, usually triangular in general shape, projecting from, or fastened to, a wall, or other surface, to support heavy bodies or to strengthen angles.  3. (Naut.)  A shot, crooked timber, resembling a knee, used as a support.  4. (Mil.)  The cheek or side of an ordnance carriage.  5. (Print.)  One of two characters [], used to inclose a reference, explanation, or note, or a part to be excluded from a sentence, to indicate an interpolation, to rectify a mistake, or to supply an omission, and for certain other purposes; -- called also crotchet.  6. A gas fixture or lamp holder projecting from the face of a wall, column, or the like. Bracket light, a gas fixture or a lamp attached to a wall, column, etc. 

BRACKET:  To place within brackets; to connect by brackets; to furnish with brackets. 

BRACKETING:  A series or group of brackets; brackets, collectively. 

BRACKISH:  Saltish, or salt in a moderate degree, as water in saline soil. Springs in deserts found seem sweet, all brackish though they be. Byron. 

BRACKISHNESS:  The quality or state of being brackish, or somewhat salt. 

BRACKY:  Brackish. Drayton. 

BRACTEA:  A bract. 

BRACTEAL:  Having the nature or appearance of a bract. 

BRACTEATE:  Having a bract or bracts. 

BRACTED:  Furnished with bracts. 

BRACTEOLATE:  Furnished with bracteoles or bractlets. 

BRACTEOLE:  Same as Bractlet. 

BRACTLESS:  Destitute of bracts. 

BRACTLET:  A bract on the stalk of a single flower, which is itself on a main stalk that support several flowers. Gray. 

BRAD:  A thin nail, usually small, with a slight projection at the top on one side instead of a head; also, a small wire nail, with a flat circular head; sometimes, a small, tapering, square-bodied finishing nail, with a countersunk head.  BRAD AWL Brad" awl`.  A straight awl with chisel edge, used to make holes for brads, etc. Weale. 

BRADOON:  Same as Bridoon. 

BRAE:  A hillside; a slope; a bank; a hill. [Scot.] Burns. 

BRAG:  To talk about one's self, or things pertaining to one's self, in a manner intended to excite admiration, envy, or wonder; to talk boastfully; to boast; -- often followed by of; as, to brag of one's exploits, courage, or money, or of the great things one intends to do. Conceit, more rich in matter than in words, Brags of his substance, not of ornament. Shak.  Syn.  -- To swagger; boast; vapor; bluster; vaunt; flourish; talk big. 

BRAG:  To boast of. [Obs.] Shak. 

BRAG:  Brisk; full of spirits; boasting; pretentious; conceited. [Arhaic] A brag young fellow. B. Jonson. 

BRAG:  Proudly; boastfully. [Obs.] Fuller. 

BRAGGARDISM:  Boastfulness; act of bragging. Shak. 

BRAGGART:  A boaster. O, I could play the woman with mine eyes, And braggart with my tongue. Shak. 

BRAGGART:  Boastful.  -- Brag"gart*ly, adv. 

BRAGGER:  One who brags; a boaster. 

BRAGGET:  A liquor made of ale and honey fermented, with spices, etc. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BRAGGINGLY:  Boastingly. 

BRAGLESS:  Without bragging. [R.] Shak. 

BRAGLY:  In a manner to be bragged of; finely; proudly. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BRAHMA:  The One First Cause; also, one of the triad of Hindoo gods. The triad consists of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, and Siva, the Destroyer.  Note: According to the Hindoo religious books, Brahma (with the final a short), or Brahm, is the Divine Essence, the One First Cause, the All in All, while the personal gods, Brahmá (with the final a long), Vishnu, and Siva, are emanations or manifestations of Brahma the Divine Essence.  2. (Zoöl.)  A valuable variety of large, domestic fowl, peculiar in having the comb divided lengthwise into three parts, and the legs well feathered. There are two breeds, the dark or penciled, and the light; -- called also Brahmapootra.  BRAHMAN; BRAHMIN Brah"man, Brah"min, n.; pl. Brahmans, Brahmins. Etym: [Skr. Brahmana (cf. Brahman worship, holiness; the God Brahma, also Brahman): cf. F. Brahmane, Brachmane, Bramine, L. Brachmanae, -manes, -mani, pl., Gr.  A person of the highest or sacerdotal caste among the Hindoos. Brahman bull (Zoöl.), the male of a variety of the zebu, or Indian ox, considered sacred by the Hindoos. 

BRAHMANESS:  A Brahmani. 

BRAHMANI:  Any Brahman woman. [Written also Brahmanee.]  BRAHMANIC; BRAHMANICAL; BRAHMAN-ICAL; BRAHMINIC; BRAHMINICAL; BRAHMIN-ICAL Brah*man"ic, -ic*al , Brah*min"ic (, *ic*al (, a.  Of or pertaining to the Brahmans or to their doctrines and worship.  BRAHMANISM; BRAHMINISM Brah"man*ism, Brah"min*ism, n.  The religion or system of doctrines of the Brahmans; the religion of Brahma.  BRAHMANIST; BRAHMINIST Brah"man*ist, Brah"min*ist, n.  An adherent of the religion of the Brahmans. 

BRAHMOISM:  The religious system of Brahmo-somaj. Balfour.  BRAHMO-SOMAJ Brah`mo-so*maj", n. Etym: [Bengalese, a wor  A modern reforming theistic sect among the Hindos. [Written also Brahma-samaj.] 

BRAID:  To start; to awake. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BRAID:  Deceitful. [Obs.] Since Frenchmen are so braid, Marry that will, I live and die a maid. Shak. 

BRAIL:  A thong of soft leather to bind up a hawk's wing.  2. pl. (Naut.)  Ropes passing through pulleys, and used to haul in or up the leeches, bottoms, or corners of sails, preparatory to furling.  3. A stock at each end of a seine to keep it stretched. 

BRAIL:  To haul up by the brails; -- used with up; as, to brail up a sail. 

BRAILLE:  A system of printing or writing for the blind in which the characters are represented by tangible points or dots. It was invented by Louis Braille, a French teacher of the blind. 

BRAIN:  The whitish mass of soft matter (the center of the nervous system, and the seat of consciousness and volition) which is inclosed in the cartilaginous or bony cranium of vertebrate animals. It is simply the anterior termination of the spinal cord, and is developed from three embryonic vesicles, whose cavities are connected with the central canal of the cord; the cavities of the vesicles become the central cavities, or ventricles, and the walls thicken unequally and become the three segments, the fore-, mid-, and hind-brain.  Note: In the brain of man the cerebral lobes, or largest part of the forebrain, are enormously developed so as to overhang the cerebellum, the great lobe of the hindbrain, and completely cover the lobes of the midbrain. The surface of the cerebrum is divided into irregular ridges, or convolutions, separated by grooves (the so-called fissures and sulci), and the two hemispheres are connected at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure by a great transverse band of nervous matter, the corpus callosum, while the two halves of the cerebellum are connected on the under side of the brain by the bridge, or pons Varolii.  2. (Zoöl.)  The anterior or cephalic ganglion in insects and other invertebrates.  3. The organ or seat of intellect; hence, the understanding. " My brain is too dull." Sir W. Scott.  Note: In this sense, often used in the plural.  4. The affections; fancy; imagination. [R.] Shak. To have on the brain, to have constantly in one's thoughts, as a sort of monomania. [Low] Brain box or case, the bony on cartilaginous case inclosing the brain.  -- Brain coral, Brain stone coral (Zoöl), a massive reef-building coral having the surface covered by ridges separated by furrows so as to resemble somewhat the surface of the brain, esp. such corals of the genera Mæandrina and Diploria.  -- Brain fag (Med.), brain weariness. See Cerebropathy.  -- Brain fever (Med.), fever in which the brain is specially affected; any acute cerebral affection attended by fever.  -- Brain sand, calcareous matter found in the pineal gland. 

BRAINED:  Supplied with brains. If th' other two be brained like us. Shak. 

BRAINISH:  Hot-headed; furious. [R.] Shak. 

BRAINLESS:  Without understanding; silly; thougthless; witless.  -- Brain"less*ness, n. 

BRAINPAN:  The bones which inclose the brain; the skull; the cranium. 

BRAINSICK:  Disordered in the understanding; giddy; thoughtless.  -- Brain"sick*ness, n. 

BRAINSICKLY:  In a brainsick manner. 

BRAINY:  Having an active or vigorous mind. [Colloq.]  BRAISE; BRAIZE Braise, Braize, n. Etym: [So called from its iridescent colors.] (Zoöl.)  A European marine fish (Pagrus vulgaris) allied to the American scup; the becker. The name is sometimes applied to the related species. [Also written brazier.]  BRAISE; BRAIZE Braise, Braize, n. Etym: [F.]  1. Charcoal powder; breeze.  2. (Cookery)  Braised meat. 

BRAISE:  To stew or broil in a covered kettle or pan. A braising kettle has a deep cover which holds coals; consequently the cooking is done from above, as well as below. Mrs. Henderson. 

BRAISER:  A kettle or pan for braising. 

BRAIT:  A rough diamond. 

BRAIZE:  See Braise. 

BRAKE:  of Break. [Arhaic] Tennyson. 

BRAKE:  A fern of the genus Pteris, esp. the P. aquilina, common in almost all countries. It has solitary stems dividing into three principal branches. Less properly: Any fern.  2. A thicket; a place overgrown with shrubs and brambles, with undergrowth and ferns, or with canes. Rounds rising hillocks, brakes obscure and rough, To shelter thee from tempest and from rain. Shak. He stayed not for brake, and he stopped not for stone. Sir W. Scott. Cane brake, a thicket of canes. See Canebrake. 

BRAKE:  An ancient engine of war analogous to the crossbow and ballista.  8. (Agric.)  A large, heavy harrow for breaking clods after plowing; a drag.  9. A piece of mechanism for retarding or stopping motion by friction, as of a carriage or railway car, by the pressure of rubbers against the wheels, or of clogs or ratchets against the track or roadway, or of a pivoted lever against a wheel or drum in a machine.  10. (Engin.)  An apparatus for testing the power of a steam engine, or other motor, by weighing the amount of friction that the motor will overcome; a friction brake.  11. A cart or carriage without a body, used in breaking in horses.  12. An ancient instrument of torture. Holinshed. Air brake. See Air brake, in the Vocabulary.  -- Brake beam or Brake bar, the beam that connects the brake blocks of opposite wheels.  -- Brake block. (a) The part of a brake holding the brake shoe. (b) A brake shoe.  -- Brake shoe or Brake rubber, the part of a brake against which the wheel rubs.  -- Brake wheel, a wheel on the platform or top of a car by which brakes are operated.  -- Continuous brake . See under Continuous. 

BRAKEMAN:  A man in charge of a brake or brakes.  2. (Mining)  The man in charge of the winding (or hoisting) engine for a mine. 

BRAKY:  Full of brakes; abounding with brambles, shrubs, or ferns; rough; thorny. In the woods and braky glens. W. Browne. 

BRAMA:  See Brahma.  BRAMAH PRESS Bra"mah press`.  A hydrostatic press of immense power, invented by Joseph Bramah of London. See under Hydrostatic. 

BRAMBLE:  Any plant of the genus Rubus, including the raspberry and blackberry. Hence: Any rough, prickly shrub. The thorny brambles, and embracing bushes. Shak.  2. (Zoöl.)  The brambling or bramble finch.  BRAMBLE BUSH Bram"ble bush`. (Bot.)  The bramble, or a collection of brambles growing together. He jumped into a bramble bush And scratched out both his eyes. Mother Goose. 

BRAMBLED:  Overgrown with brambles. Forlorn she sits upon the brambled floor. T. Warton.  BRAMBLE NET Bram"ble net`.  A net to catch birds. 

BRAMBLING:  The European mountain finch (Fringilla montifringilla); -- called also bramble finch and bramble. 

BRAMBLY:  Pertaining to, resembling, or full of, brambles. "In brambly wildernesses." Tennyson. 

BRAME:  Sharp passion; vexation. [Obs.] Heart-burning brame. Spenser.  BRAMIN; BRAMINIC Bra"min, Bra*min"ic  , etc. See Brahman, Brachmanic, etc. 

BRAN:  The European carrion crow. 

BRANCARD:  A litter on which a person may be carried. [Obs.] Coigrave. 

BRANCH:  A shoot or secondary stem growing from the main stem, or from a principal limb or bough of a tree or other plant.  2. Any division extending like a branch; any arm or part connected with the main body of thing; ramification; as, the branch of an antler; the branch of a chandelier; a branch of a river; a branch of a railway. Most of the branches , or streams, were dried up. W. Irving.  3. Any member or part of a body or system; a distinct article; a section or subdivision; a department. "Branches of knowledge." Prescott. It is a branch and parcel of mine oath. Shak.  4. (Geom.)  One of the portions of a curve that extends outwards to an indefinitely great distance; as, the branches of an hyperbola.  5. A line of family descent, in distinction from some other line or lines from the same stock; any descendant in such a line; as, the English branch of a family. His father, a younger branch of the ancient stock. Carew.  6. (Naut.)  A warrant or commission given to a pilot, authorizing him to pilot vessels in certain waters. Branches of a bridle, two pieces of bent iron, which bear the bit, the cross chains, and the curb.  -- Branch herring. See Alewife.  -- Root and branch , totally, wholly.  Syn.  -- Bough; limb; shoot; offshoot; twig; sprig. 

BRANCH:  Diverging from, or tributary to, a main stock, line, way, theme, etc.; as, a branch vein; a branch road or line; a branch topic; a branch store. 

BRANCHER:  A young hawk when it begins to leave the nest and take to the branches. 

BRANCHERY:  A system of branches. 

BRANCHIA:  A gill; a respiratory organ for breathing the air contained in water, such as many aquatic and semiaquatic animals have. 

BRANCHIAL:  Of or pertaining to branchiæ or gills. Branchial arches, the bony or cartilaginous arches which support the gills on each side of the throat of fishes and amphibians. See Illustration in Appendix.  -- Branchial clefts, the openings between the branchial arches through which water passes. 

BRANCHIATE:  Furnished with branchiæ; as, branchiate segments. 

BRANCHIFEROUS:  Having gills; branchiate; as, branchiferous gastropods. 

BRANCHINESS:  Fullness of branches. 

BRANCHING:  Furnished with branches; shooting our branches; extending in a branch or branches. Shaded with branching palm. Milton. 

BRANCHING:  The act or state of separation into branches; division into branches; a division or branch. The sciences, with their numerous branchings. L. Watts. 

BRANCHIOGASTROPODA:  Those Gastropoda that breathe by branchiæ, including the Prosobranchiata and Opisthobranchiata. 

BRANCHIOMERISM:  The state of being made up of branchiate segments. R. Wiedersheim. 

BRANCHIOPOD:  One of the Branchiopoda. 

BRANCHIOPODA:  An order of Entomostraca; -- so named from the feet of branchiopods having been supposed to perform the function of gills. It includes the fresh-water genera Branchipus, Apus, and Limnadia, and the genus Artemia found in salt lakes. It is also called Phyllopoda. See Phyllopoda, Cladocera. It is sometimes used in a broader sense. 

BRANCHIOSTEGAL:  Pertaining to the membrane covering the gills of fishes.  -- n. (Anat.)  A branchiostegal ray. See Illustration of Branchial arches in Appendix.  Note: This term was formerly applied to a group of fishes having boneless branchiæ. But the arrangement was artificial, and has been rejected. 

BRANCHIOSTEGE:  The branchiostegal membrane. See Illustration in Appendix. 

BRANCHIOSTEGOUS:  Branchiostegal. 

BRANCHIOSTOMA:  The lancelet. See Amphioxus. 

BRANCHIURA:  A group of Entomostraca, with suctorial mouths, including species parasitic on fishes, as the carp lice (Argulus). 

BRANCHLESS:  Destitude of branches or shoots; without any valuable product; barren; naked. 

BRANCHLET:  A little branch; a twig.  BRANCH PILOT Branch" pi`lot.  A pilot who has a branch or commission, as from Trinity House, England, for special navigation. 

BRANCHY:  Full of branches; having wide-spreading branches; consisting of branches. Beneath thy branchy bowers of thickest gloom. J. Scott. 

BRAND:  Any minute fungus which produces a burnt appearance in plants. The brands are of many species and several genera of the order Pucciniæi. 

BRANDENBURG:  A kind of decoration for the breast of a coat, sometimes only a frog with a loop, but in some military uniforms enlarged into a broad horizontal stripe.  He wore a coat . . . trimmed with Brandenburgs. Smollett. 

BRANDER:  A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) usually called in America brant. See Brant. 

BRANDIED:  Mingled with brandy; made stronger by the addition of brandy; flavored or treated with brandy; as, brandied peaches.  BRANDING IRON Brand"ing i`*ron.  An iron to brand with.  BRAND IRON Brand" i`ron.  1. A branding iron.  2. A trivet to set a pot on. Huloet.  3. The horizontal bar of an andiron. 

BRANDISH:  A flourish, as with a weapon, whip, etc. "Brandishes of the fan." Tailer. 

BRANDISHER:  One who brandishes. 

BRANDLE:  To shake; to totter. [Obs.]  BRANDLING; BRANDLIN Brand"ling, Brand"lin, n. (Zoöl.)  Same as Branlin, fish and worm.  BRAND-NEW Brand"-new", a. Etym: [See Brand, and cf. Brannew.]  Quite new; bright as if fresh from the forge.  BRAND SPORE Brand" spore`. (Bot.)  One of several spores growing in a series or chain, and produced by one of the fungi called brand. 

BRANDY:  A strong alcoholic liquor distilled from wine. The name is also given to spirit distilled from other liquors, and in the United States to that distilled from cider and peaches. In northern Europe, it is also applied to a spirit obtained from grain. Brandy fruit, fruit preserved in brandy and sugar. 

BRANDYWINE:  Brandy. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

BRANGLE:  A wrangle; a squabble; a noisy contest or dispute. [R.] A brangle between him and his neighbor. Swift. 

BRANGLE:  To wrangle; to dispute contentiously; to squabble. [R.] 

BRANGLEMENT:  Wrangle; brangle. [Obs.] 

BRANGLER:  A quarrelsome person. 

BRANGLING:  A quarrel. [R.] Whitlock. 

BRANK:  Buckwheat. [Local, Eng.] Halliwell.  BRANK; BRANKS Brank, Branks, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. brangus, brangas, a sort of pillory, Ir. brancas halter, or D. pranger fetter.]  1. A sort of bridle with wooden side pieces. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Jamieson.  2. A scolding bridle, an instrument formerly used for correcting scolding women. It was an iron frame surrounding the head and having a triangular piece entering the mouth of the scold. 

BRANKURSINE:  Bear's-breech, or Acanthus. 

BRANLIN:  A young salmon or parr, in the stage in which it has transverse black bands, as if burned by a gridiron. 

BRANLIN:  A small red worm or larva, used as bait for small fresh-water fish; -- so called from its red color.  BRAN-NEW Bran"-new", a.  See Brand-new. 

BRANNY:  Having the appearance of bran; consisting of or containing bran. Wiseman. 

BRANSLE:  A brawl or dance. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BRANT:  A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) -- called also brent and brand goose. The name is also applied to other related species. 

BRANT:  Steep. [Prov. Eng.] 

BRANTAIL:  The European redstart; -- so called from the red color of its tail.  BRANT-FOX Brant"-fox`, n. Etym: [For brand-fox; cf. G. brandfuchs, Sw. bradräf. So called from its yellowish brown and somewhat black color. See Brand.] (Zoöl.)  A kind of fox found in Sweden (Vulpes alopex), smaller than the common fox (V. vulgaris), but probably a variety of it. 

BRANULAR:  Relating to the brain; cerebral. I. Taylor. 

BRASEN:  Same as Brazen. 

BRASH:  Hasty in temper; impetuous. Grose. 

BRASH:  Brittle, as wood or vegetables. [Colloq., U. S.] Bartlett. 

BRASH:  Broken and angular fragments of rocks underlying alluvial deposits. Lyell.  4. Broken fragments of ice. Kane. Water brash (Med.), an affection characterized by a spasmodic pain or hot sensation in the stomach with a rising of watery liquid into the mouth; pyrosis.  -- Weaning brash (Med.), a severe form of diarrhea which sometimes attacks children just weaned. 

BRASHY:  An artificer who works in brass. Franklin.  BRASIER; BRAZIER Bra"sier, Bra"zier, n. Etym: [F. brasier, braisíer, fr. braise live coals. See Brass.]  A pan for holding burning coals.  BRASILIN; BRASILEIN Bras"i*lin, Bras"i*lein, n. [Cf. F. brésiline. See 2d Brazil.] (Chem.)  A substance, C16H14O5, extracted from brazilwood as a yellow crystalline powder which is white when pure. It is colored intensely red by alkalies on exposure to the air, being oxidized to bra*sil"e*in, C16H12O5, to which brazilwood owes its dyeing properties. 

BRASQUE:  A paste made by mixing powdered charcoal, coal, or coke with clay, molasses, tar, or other suitable substance. It is used for lining hearths, crucibles, etc. Called also steep. 

BRASS:  A journal bearing, so called because frequently made of brass. A brass is often lined with a softer metal, when the latter is generally called a white metal lining. See Axle box, Journal Box, and Bearing.  3. Coin made of copper, brass, or bronze. [Obs.] Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses, nor scrip for your journey. Matt. x. 9.  4. Impudence; a brazen face. [Colloq.]  5. pl.  Utensils, ornaments, or other articles of brass. The very scullion who cleans the brasses. Hopkinson.  6. A brass plate engraved with a figure or device. Specifically, one used as a memorial to the dead, and generally having the portrait, coat of arms, etc.  7. pl. (Mining)  Lumps of pyrites or sulphuret of iron, the color of which is near to that of brass.  Note: The word brass as used in Sculpture language is a translation for copper or some kind of bronze.  Note: Brass is often used adjectively or in self-explaining compounds; as, brass button, brass kettle, brass founder, brass foundry or brassfoundry. Brass band (Mus.), a band of musicians who play upon wind instruments made of brass, as trumpets, cornets, etc.  -- Brass foil, Brass leaf, brass made into very thin sheets; -- called also Dutch gold. 

BRASSAGE:  A sum formerly levied to pay the expense of coinage; -- now called seigniorage. 

BRASSART:  Armor for the arm; -- generally used for the whole arm from the shoulder to the wrist, and consisting, in the 15th and 16th centuries, of many parts. 

BRASSE:  A spotted European fish of the genus Lucioperca, resembling a perch. 

BRASSETS:  See Brassart. 

BRASSICA:  A genus of plants embracing several species ad varieties differing much in appearance and qualities: such as the common cabbage (B. oleracea), broccoli, cauliflowers, etc.; the wild turnip (B. campestris); the common turnip (B. rapa); the rape of coleseed (B. napus), etc. 

BRASSICACEOUS:  Related to, or resembling, the cabbage, or plants of the Cabbage family. 

BRASSIERE:  A form of woman's underwaist stiffened with whalebones, or the like, and worn to support the breasts. 

BRASSINESS:  The state, conditions, or quality of being brassy. [Colloq.]  BRASS-VISAGED Brass"-vis"aged, a.  Impudent; bold. 

BRAST:  To burst. [Obs.] And both his yën braste out of his face. Chaucer. Dreadfull furies which their chains have brast. Spenser. 

BRAT:  A thin bed of coal mixed with pyrites or carbonate of lime. 

BRATSCHE:  The tenor viola, or viola. 

BRATTISHING:  Carved openwork, as of a shrine, battlement, or parapet. 

BRAUNITE:  A native oxide of manganese, of dark brownish black color. It was named from a Mr. Braun of Gotha. 

BRAVADE:  Bravado. [Obs.] Fanshawe. 

BRAVADO:  Boastful and threatening behavior; a boastful menace. In spite of our host's bravado. Irving. 

BRAVENESS:  The quality of state or being brave. 

BRAVING:  A bravado; a boast. With so proud a strain Of threats and bravings. Chapman. 

BRAVINGLY:  In a defiant manner. 

BRAVO:  A daring villain; a bandit; one who sets law at defiance; a professional assassin or murderer. Safe from detection, seize the unwary prey. And stab, like bravoes, all who come this way. Churchill. 

BRAVO:  Well done! excellent! an exclamation expressive of applause. 

BRAVURA:  A florid, brilliant style of music, written for effect, to show the range and flexibility of a singer's voice, or the technical force and skill of a performer; virtuoso music. Aria di bravura ( Etym: [It.], a florid air demanding brilliant execution. 

BRAWL:  A noisy quarrel; loud, angry contention; a wrangle; a tumult; as, a drunken brawl. His sports were hindered by the brawls. Shak .  Syn.  -- Noise; quarrel; uproar; row; tumult. 

BRAWLER:  One that brawls; wrangler. Common brawler (Law), one who disturbs a neighborhood by brawling (and is therefore indictable at common law as a nuisance). Wharton. 

BRAWLINGLY:  In a brawling manner. 

BRAWNED:  Brawny; strong; muscular. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BRAWNER:  A boor killed for the table. 

BRAWNINESS:  The quality or state of being brawny. 

BRAWNY:  Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong. "Brawny limbs." W. Irving.  Syn.  -- Muscular; fleshy; strong; bulky; sinewy; athletic; stalwart; powerful; robust. 

BRAY:  To pound, beat, rub, or grind small or fine. Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar, . . . yet will not his foolishness depart from him. Prov. xxvii. 22. 

BRAY:  To make or utter with a loud, discordant, or harsh and grating sound. Arms on armor clashing, brayed Horrible discord. MIlton. And varying notes the war pipes brayed. Sir W. Scott. 

BRAY:  The harsh cry of an ass; also, any harsh, grating, or discordant sound. The bray and roar of multitudinous London. Jerrold. 

BRAY:  A bank; the slope of a hill; a hill. See Brae, which is now the usual spelling. [North of Eng. & Scot.] Fairfax. 

BRAYER:  An implement for braying and spreading ink in hand printing. 

BRAYER:  One that brays like an ass. Pope. 

BRAYING:  Making a harsh noise; blaring. "Braying trumpets." Shak. 

BRAZE:  To cover or ornament with brass. Chapman. 

BRAZEN:  To carry through impudently or shamelessly; as, to brazen the matter through. Sabina brazened it out before Mrs. Wygram, but inwardly she was resolved to be a good deal more circumspect. W. Black.  BRAZEN-BROWED Bra"zen-browed`, a.  Shamelessly impudent. Sir T. Browne. 

BRAZENFACE:  An impudent of shameless person. "Well said, brazenface; hold it out." Shak. 

BRAZENFACED:  Impudent; shameless. 

BRAZENLY:  In a bold, impudent manner. 

BRAZENNESS:  The quality or state of being brazen. Johnson. 

BRAZIER:  Same as Brasier. 

BRAZILETTO:  See Brazil wood. 

BRAZILIAN:  Of or pertaining to Brasil.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Brazil. Brazilian pebble. See Pebble, n., 2. 

BRAZILIN:  A substance contained in both Brazil wood and Sapan wood, from which it is extracted as a yellow crystalline substance which is white when pure. It is colored intensely red by alkalies. [Written also brezilin.]  BRAZIL NUT Bra*zil" nut`. (Bot.)  An oily, three-sided nut, the seed of the Bertholletia excelsa; the cream nut.  Note: From eighteen to twenty-four of the seed or "nuts" grow in a hard and nearly globular shell.  BRAZIL WOOD Bra*zil" wood`. Etym: [OE. brasil, LL. brasile (cf. Pg. & Sp. brasil, Pr. bresil, Pr. bresil); perh. from Sp. or Pg. brasa a live coal (cf. Braze, Brasier); or Ar. vars plant for dyeing red or yellow. This name was given to the wood from its color; and it is said that King Emanuel, of Portugal, gave the name Brazil to the country in South America on account of its producing this wood.]  1. The wood of the oriental Cæsalpinia Sapan; -- so called before the discovery of America.  2. A very heavy wood of a reddish color, imported from Brazil and other tropical countries, for cabinet-work, and for dyeing. The best is the heartwood of Cæsalpinia echinata, a leguminous tree; but other trees also yield it. An interior sort comes from Jamaica, the timber of C. Braziliensis and C. crista. This is often distinguished as Braziletto , but the better kind is also frequently so named. 

BREACH:  A hernia; a rupture.  8. A breaking out upon; an assault. The Lord had made a breach upon Uzza. 1. Chron. xiii. 11 Breach of falth, a breaking, or a failure to keep, an expressed or implied promise; a betrayal of confidence or trust.  -- Breach of peace, disorderly conduct, disturbing the public peace.  -- Breach of privilege, an act or default in violation of the privilege or either house of Parliament, of Congress, or of a State legislature, as, for instance, by false swearing before a committee. Mozley. Abbott. - Breach of promise, violation of one's plighted word, esp. of a promise to marry.  -- Breach of trust, violation of one's duty or faith in a matter entrusted to one.  Syn.  -- Rent; cleft; chasm; rift; aperture; gap; break; disruption; fracture; rupture; infraction; infringement; violation; quarrel; dispute; contention; difference; misunderstanding. 

BREACH:  To make a breach or opening in; as, to breach the walls of a city. 

BREACH:  To break the water, as by leaping out; -- said of a whale. 

BREACHY:  Apt to break fences or to break out of pasture; unruly; as, breachy cattle. 

BREAD:  To spread. [Obs.] Ray. 

BREAD:  To cover with bread crumbs, preparatory to cooking; as, breaded cutlets. 

BREADBASKET:  The stomach. [Humorous] S. Foote. 

BREADCORN:  Corn of grain of which bread is made, as wheat, rye, etc. 

BREADED:  Braided [Obs.] Spenser. 

BREADEN:  Made of bread. [R.] 

BREADFRUIT:  The tree itself, which is one of considerable size, with large, lobed leaves. Cloth is made from the bark, and the timber is used for many purposes. Called also breadfruit tree and bread tree. 

BREADLESS:  Without bread; destitude of food. Plump peers and breadless bards alike are dull. P. Whitehead. 

BREADROOT:  The root of a leguminous plant (Psoralea esculenta), found near the Rocky Mountains. It is usually oval in form, and abounds in farinaceous matter, affording sweet and palatable food.  Note: It is the Pomme blanche of Canadian voyageurs. 

BREADSTUFF:  Grain, flour, or meal of which bread is made. 

BREADTHLESS:  Without breadth. 

BREADTHWAYS:  Breadthwise. Whewell. 

BREADTHWISE:  In the direction of the breadth. 

BREADWINNER:  The member of a family whose labor supplies the food of the family; one who works for his living. H. Spencer. 

BREAK:  See Commutator. 

BREAKABLE:  Capable of being broken. 

BREAKAWAY:  A wild rush of sheep, cattle, horses, or camels (especially at the smell or the sight of water); a stampede.  2.  An animal that breaks away from a herd.  BREAKBONE FEVER Break"bone` fe`ver. (Med.)  See Dengue.  BREAK-CIRCUIT Break"-cir`cuit, n. (Elec.)  A key or other device for breaking an electrical circuit. 

BREAKER:  A small water cask. Totten.  4. A wave breaking into foam against the shore, or against a sand bank, or a rock or reef near the surface. The breakers were right beneath her bows. Longfellow. 

BREAKFAST:  To break one's fast in the morning; too eat the first meal in the day. First, sir, I read, and then I breakfast. Prior. 

BREAKFAST:  To furnish with breakfast. Milton. 

BREAKMAN:  See Brakeman. 

BREAKNECK:  Producing danger of a broken neck; as, breakneck speed.  BREAK-UP Break"-up`, n.  Disruption; a separation and dispersion of the parts or members; as, a break-up of an assembly or dinner party; a break-up of the government. 

BREAKWATER:  Any structure or contrivance, as a mole, or a wall at the mouth of a harbor, to break the force of waves, and afford protection from their violence. 

BREAM:  A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis, little valued as food. Several species are known.  2. (Zoöl)  An American fresh-water fish, of various species of Pomotis and allied genera, which are also called sunfishes and pondfishes. See Pondfish.  3. (Zoöl)  A marine sparoid fish of the genus Pagellus, and allied genera. See Sea Bream. 

BREAM:  To clean, as a ship's bottom of adherent shells, seaweed, etc., by the application of fire and scraping. 

BREAST:  To meet, with the breast; to struggle with or oppose manfully; as, to breast the storm or waves. The court breasted the popular current by sustaining the demurrer. Wirt. To breast up a hedge, to cut the face of it on one side so as to lay bare the principal upright stems of the plants. 

BREASTBAND:  A band for the breast. Specifically: (Naut.) A band of canvas, or a rope, fastened at both ends to the rigging, to support the man who heaves the lead in sounding. 

BREASTBEAM:  The front transverse beam of a locomotive. 

BREASTBONE:  The bone of the breast; the sternum.  BREAST-DEEP Breast"-deep`, a.  Deep as from the breast to the feet; as high as the breast. See him breast-deep in earth, and famish him. Shak. 

BREASTED:  Having a breast; -- used in composition with qualifying words, in either a literal or a metaphorical sense; as, a single-breasted coat. The close minister is buttoned up, and the brave officer open- breasted, on these occasions. Spectator. 

BREASTFAST:  A large rope to fasten the midship part of a ship to a wharf, or to another vessel. 

BREASTHEIGHT:  The interior slope of a fortification, against which the garnison lean in firing.  BREAST-HIGH Breast"-high`, a.  High as the breast. 

BREASTHOOK:  A thick piece of timber in the form of a knee, placed across the stem of a ship to strengthen the fore part and unite the bows on each side. Totten. 

BREASTING:  The curved channel in which a breast wheel turns. It is closely adapted to the curve of the wheel through about a quarter of its circumference, and prevents the escape of the water until it has spent its force upon the wheel. See Breast wheel. 

BREASTKNOT:  A pin worn of the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a brooch. 

BREASTPIN:  A pin worn on the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a brooch. 

BREASTPLATE:  A part of the vestment of the high priest, worn upon the front of the ephod. It was a double piece of richly embroidered stuff, a span square, set with twelve precious stones, on which were engraved the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. See Ephod.  BREASTPLOW; BREASTPLOUGH Breast"plow`, Breast"plough`, n.  A kind of plow, driven by the breast of the workman; -- used to cut or pare turf. 

BREASTRAIL:  The upper rail of any parapet of ordinary height, as of a balcony; the railing of a quarter-deck, etc. 

BREASTROPE:  See Breastband. 

BREASTSUMMER:  A summer or girder extending across a building flush with, and supporting, the upper part of a front or external wall; a long lintel; a girder; -- used principally above shop windows. [Written also brestsummer and bressummer.] 

BREASTWHEEL:  A water wheel, on which the stream of water strikes neither so high as in the overshot wheel, nor so low as in the undershot, but generally at about half the height of the wheel, being kept in contact with it by the breasting. The water acts on the float boards partly by impulse, partly by its weight. 

BREASTWORK:  A defensive work of moderate height, hastily thrown up, of earth or other material.  2. (Naut.)  A railing on the quarter-deck and forecastle. 

BREATHABLE:  Such as can be breathed. 

BREATHABLENESS:  State of being breathable. 

BREATHE:  To utter without vocality, as the nonvocal consonants. The same sound may be pronounces either breathed, voiced, or whispered. H. Sweet. Breathed elements, being already voiceless, remain unchanged  Note: [in whispering]. H. Sweet. To breathe again, to take breath; to feel a sense of relief, as from danger, responsibility, or press of business.  -- To breathe one's last, to die; to expire.  -- To breathe a vein, to open a vein; to let blood. Dryden. 

BREATHFUL:  Full of breath; full of odor; fragrant. [Obs.] 

BREATHING:  A mark to indicate aspiration or its absence. See Rough breathing, Smooth breathing, below. Breathing place. (a) A pause. "That cæsura, or breathing place, in the midst of the verse." Sir P. Sidney. (b) A vent.  -- Breathing time, pause; relaxation. Bp. Hall.  -- Breathing while, time sufficient for drawing breath; a short time. Shak.  -- Rough breathing (spiritus asper) (. See 2d Asper, n.  -- Smooth breathing (spiritus lenis), a mark (') indicating the absence of the sound of h, as in 'ie`nai (ienai). 

BREATHLESSLY:  In a breathless manner. 

BREATHLESSNESS:  The state of being breathless or out of breath. 

BRECCIA:  A rock composed of angular fragments either of the same mineral or of different minerals, etc., united by a cement, and commonly presenting a variety of colors. Bone breccia, a breccia containing bones, usually fragmentary.  -- Coin breccia, a breccia containing coins. 

BRECCIATED:  Consisting of angular fragments cemented together; resembling breccia in appearance. The brecciated appearance of many specimens [of meteorites]. H. A. Newton. 

BRED:  imp. & p. p. of Breed. Bred out, degenerated. "The strain of man's bred out into baboon and monkey." Shak.  -- Bred to arms. See under Arms.  -- Well bred. (a) Of a good family; having a good pedigree. "A gentleman well bred and of good name." Shak. [Obs., except as applied to domestic animals.] (b) Well brought up, as shown in having good manners; cultivated; refined; polite.  BREDE; BREEDE Brede, or Breede, n.  Breadth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BREDE:  A braid. [R.] Half lapped in glowing gauze and golden brede. Tennyson. 

BREECH:  The external angle of knee timber, the inside of which is called the throat. 

BREECH:  The breech mechanism in breech-loading small arms and certain special guns, as automatic and machine guns; --used frequently in referring to the method by which the movable barrels of breech- loading shotguns are locked, unlocked, or rotated to loading position. 

BREECHBLOCK:  The movable piece which closes the breech of a breech-loading firearm, and resists the backward force of the discharge. It is withdrawn for the insertion of a cartridge, and closed again before the gun is fired. 

BREECHCLOTH:  A cloth worn around the breech. 

BREECHING:  A strong rope rove through the cascabel of a cannon and secured to ringbolts in the ship's side, to limit the recoil of the gun when it is discharged.  4. The sheet iron casing at the end of boilers to convey the smoke from the flues to the smokestack. 

BREECHLOADER:  A firearm which receives its load at the breech. For cavalry, the revolver and breechloader will supersede the saber. Rep. Sec. War (1860).  BREECH-LOADING Breech"-load`ing, a.  Receiving the charge at the breech instead of at the muzzle.  BREECH PIN; BREECH SCREW Breech" pin`, Breech" screw`.  A strong iron or steel plug screwed into the breech of a musket or other firearm, to close the bottom of the bore.  BREECH SIGHT Breech" sight`.  A device attached to the breech of a firearm, to guide the eye, in conjunction with the front sight, in taking aim. 

BREEDBATE:  One who breeds or originates quarrels. [Obs.] "No telltale nor no breedbate." Shak. 

BREEDING:  A fly of various species, of the family Tabanidæ, noted for buzzing about animals, and tormenting them by sucking their blood; -- called also horsefly, and gadfly. They are among the largest of two- winged or dipterous insects. The name is also given to different species of botflies. [Written also breese and brize.] 

BREEZE:  Refuse coal, coal ashes, and cinders, used in the burning of bricks. 

BREEZE:  To blow gently. [R.] J. Barlow. To breeze up (Naut.), to blow with increasing freshness. 

BREEZELESS:  Motionless; destitute of breezes. A stagnant, breezeless air becalms my soul. Shenstone. 

BREEZINESS:  State of being breezy. 

BREGMA:  The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures of the skull. 

BREGMATIC:  Pertaining to the bregma. 

BREHON:  An ancient Irish or Scotch judge. Brehon laws, the ancient Irish laws, -- unwritten, like the common law of England. They were abolished by statute of Edward III. 

BRELAN:  In French games, a double pair royal.  BRELAN FAVORI Bre*lan" fa`vo`ri". [F. favori favorite.] (Card Playing)  In French games, a pair royal composed of 2 cards in the hand and the card turned. 

BRELOQUE:  A seal or charm for a watch chain. "His chains and breloques." Thackeray. 

BREME:  To burn. [Obs.] Chaucer. Consuming fire brent his shearing house or stall. W. Browne. 

BREN:  Bran. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BRENNAGE:  A tribute which tenants paid to their lord, in lieu of bran, which they were obliged to furnish for his hounds. 

BRENNINGLY:  Burningly; ardently. [Obs.]  BRENT; BRANT Brent, Brant, a. Etym: [AS. brant; akin to Dan. brat, Icel. brattr, steep.]  1. Steep; high. [Obs.] Grapes grow on the brant rocks so wonderfully that ye will marvel how any man dare climb up to them. Ascham.  2. Smooth; unwrinkled. [Scot.] Your bonnie brow was brent. Burns. 

BRENT:  of Bren. Burnt. [Obs.] 

BRENT:  A brant. See Brant.  BREQUET CHAIN Breq"uet chain`.  A watch-guard. 

BRERE:  A brier. [Archaic] Chaucer. 

BREST:  for Bursteth. [Obs.]  BREST; BREAST Brest, Breast, n. (Arch.)  A torus. [Obs.] 

BRESTE:  To burst. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BRESTSUMMER:  See Breastsummer. 

BRET:  See Birt. 

BRETFUL:  Brimful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BRETHREN:  pl. of Brother.  Note: This form of the plural is used, for the most part, in solemn address, and in speaking of religious sects or fraternities, or their members. 

BRETON:  Of or relating to Brittany, or Bretagne, in France.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Brittany, or Bretagne, in France; also, the ancient language of Brittany; Armorican. 

BRETT:  Same as Britzska. 

BRETTICE:  The wooden boarding used in supporting the roofs and walls of coal mines. See Brattice. 

BRETWALDA:  The official title applied to that one of the Anglo-Saxon chieftains who was chosen by the other chiefs to lead them in their warfare against the British tribes. Brande & C. 

BRETZEL:  See Pretzel. 

BREVE:  A note or character of time, equivalent to two semibreves or four minims. When dotted, it is equal to three semibreves. It was formerly of a square figure (as thus: Moore.  2. (Law)  Any writ or precept under seal, issued out of any court.  3. (Print.)  A curved mark [&breve;] used commonly to indicate the short quantity of a vowel.  4. (Zoöl.)  The great ant thrush of Sumatra (Pitta gigas), which has a very short tail. 

BREVET:  A commission giving an officer higher rank than that for which he receives pay; an honorary promotion of an officer.  Note: In the United States army, rank by brevet is conferred, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for "gallant actions or meritorious services." A brevet rank gives no right of command in the particular corps to which the officer brevetted belongs, and can be exercised only by special assignment of the President, or on court martial, and detachments composed of different corps, with pay of the brevet rank when on such duty. 

BREVET:  To confer rank upon by brevet. 

BREVET:  Taking or conferring rank by brevet; as, a brevet colonel; a brevet commission. 

BREVETCY:  The rank or condition of a brevet officer. 

BREVIATE:  To abbreviate. [Obs.] 

BREVIATURE:  An abbreviature; an abbreviation. [Obs.] Johnson. 

BREVIER:  A size of type between bourgeous and minion.  Note: This line is printed in brevier type. 

BREVILOQUENCE:  A brief and pertinent mode of speaking. [R.] 

BREVIPED:  Having short legs.  -- n.  A breviped bird. 

BREVIPEN:  A brevipennate bird. 

BREVIPENNATE:  Short-winged; -- applied to birds which can not fly, owing to their short wings, as the ostrich, cassowary, and emu.  BREVIROSTRAL; BREVIROSTRATE Brev`i*ros"tral, Brev`i*ros"trate, a. Etym: [L. brevis short + E. rostral, rostrate.] (Zoöl.)  Short-billed; having a short beak. 

BREW:  The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed. Bacon. 

BREWAGE:  Malt liquor; drink brewed. "Some well-spiced brewage." Milton. A rich brewage, made of the best Spanish wine. Macaulay. 

BREWER:  One who brews; one whose occupation is to prepare malt liquors. 

BREWERY:  A brewhouse; the building and apparatus where brewing is carried on. 

BREWHOUSE:  A house or building appropriated to brewing; a brewery. 

BREWING:  A gathering or forming of a storm or squall, indicated by thick, dark clouds. 

BREWSTERITE:  A rare zeolitic mineral occurring in white monoclinic crystals with pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, baryta, and strontia. 

BREZILIN:  See Brazilin. 

BRIAR:  Same as Brier. 

BRIAREAN:  Pertaining to, or resembling, Briareus, a giant fabled to have a hundred hands; hence, hundred-handed or many-handed. 

BRIBABLE:  Capable of being bribed. A more bribable class of electors. S. Edwards. 

BRIBELESS:  Incapable of being bribed; free from bribes. From thence to heaven's bribeless hall. Sir W. Raleigh. 

BRIBERY:  Miscellaneous curiosities and works of decorative art, considered collectively. A piece of bric-a-brac, any curious or antique article of virtu, as a piece of antiquated furniture or metal work, or an odd knickknack. 

BRICKBAT:  A piece or fragment of a brick. See Bat, 4. Bacon. 

BRICKFIELDER:  Orig., at Sydney, a cold and violent south or southwest wind, rising suddenly, and regularly preceded by a hot wind from the north; -- now usually called southerly buster. It blew across the Brickfields, formerly so called, a district of Sydney, and carried clouds of dust into the city.  2.  By confusion, a midsummer hot wind from the north. 

BRICKKILN:  A kiln, or furnace, in which bricks are baked or burnt; or a pile of green bricks, laid loose, with arches underneath to receive the wood or fuel for burning them. 

BRICKLAYER:  One whose pccupation is to build with bricks. Bricklayer's itch. See under Itch. 

BRICKLAYING:  The art of building with bricks, or of uniting them by cement or mortar into various forms; the act or occupation of laying bricks. 

BRICKLE:  Brittle; easily broken. [Obs. or Prov.] Spenser. As stubborn steel excels the brickle glass. Turbervile. 

BRICKLENESS:  Brittleness. [Obs.] 

BRICKMAKER:  One whose occupation is to make bricks.  -- Brick"mak*ing, n. 

BRICKY:  Full of bricks; formed of bricks; resembling bricks or brick dust. [R.] Spenser. 

BRICKYARD:  A place where bricks are made, especially an inclosed place. 

BRICOLE:  A kind of traces with hooks and rings, with which men drag and maneuver guns where horses can not be used. 

BRID:  A bird. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BRIDAL:  Of or pertaining to a bride, or to wedding; nuptial; as, bridal ornaments; a bridal outfit; a bridal chamber. 

BRIDAL:  A nuptia; festival or ceremony; a marriage. Sweet day, so cool, so calm, so bright, The bridal of the earth and sky. Herbert. 

BRIDALTY:  Celebration of the nuptial feast. [Obs.] "In honor of this bridalty." B. Jonson. 

BRIDE:  To make a bride of. [Obs.]  BRIDE-ALE Bride"-ale`, n. Etym: [See Bridal.]  A rustic wedding feast; a bridal. See Ale. The man that 's bid to bride-ale, if he ha' cake, And drink enough, he need not fear his stake. B. Jonson. 

BRIDEBED:  The marriage bed. [Poetic] 

BRIDECAKE:  Rich or highly ornamented cake, to be distributed to the guests at a wedding, or sent to friends after the wedding. 

BRIDECHAMBER:  The nuptial appartment. Matt. ix. 15. 

BRIDEGROOM:  A man newly married, or just about to be married. 

BRIDEKNOT:  A knot of ribbons worn by a guest at a wedding; a wedding favor. [Obs.]  BRIDEMAID; BRIDEMAN Bride"maid`, n., Bride"man (, n.  See Bridesmaid, Bridesman. 

BRIDESMAID:  A female friend who attends on a bride at her wedding. 

BRIDESMAN:  A male friend who attends upon a bridegroom and bride at their marriage; the "best man." Sir W. Scott. 

BRIDESTAKE:  A stake or post set in the ground, for guests at a wedding to dance round. Divide the broad bridecake Round about the bridestake. B. Jonson. 

BRIDEWELL:  A house of correction for the confinement of disorderly persons; -- so called from a hospital built in 1553 near St. Bride's (or Bridget's) well, in London, which was subsequently a penal workhouse. 

BRIDGE:  The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of a violin, guitar, etc., serving of raise them and transmit their vibrations to the body of the instrument.  4. (Elec.)  A device to measure the resistance of a wire or other conductor forming part of an electric circuit.  5. A low wall or vertical partition in the fire chamber of a furnace, for deflecting flame, etc.; -- usually called a bridge wall. Aqueduct bridge. See Aqueduct.  -- Asses' bridge, Bascule bridge, Bateau bridge. See under Ass, Bascule, Bateau.  -- Bridge of a steamer (Naut.), a narrow platform across the deck, above the rail, for the convenience of the officer in charge of the ship; in paddlewheel vessels it connects the paddle boxes.  -- Bridge of the nose, the upper, bony part of the nose.  -- Cantalever bridge. See under Cantalever.  -- Draw bridge. See Drawbridge.  -- Flying bridge, a temporary bridge suspended or floating, as for the passage of armies; also, a floating structure connected by a cable with an anchor or pier up stream, and made to pass from bank to bank by the action of the current or other means.  -- Girder bridge or Truss bridge, a bridge formed by girders, or by trusses resting upon abutments or piers.  -- Lattice bridge, a bridge formed by lattice girders.  -- Pontoon bridge, Ponton bridge. See under Pontoon.  -- Skew bridge, a bridge built obliquely from bank to bank, as sometimes required in railway engineering.  -- Suspension bridge. See under Suspension.  -- Trestle bridge, a bridge formed of a series of short, simple girders resting on trestles.  -- Tubular bridge, a bridge in the form of a hollow trunk or rectangular tube, with cellular walls made of iron plates riveted together, as the Britannia bridge over the Menai Strait, and the Victoria bridge at Montreal.  -- Wheatstone's bridge (Elec.), a device for the measurement of resistances, so called because the balance between the resistances to be measured is indicated by the absence of a current in a certain wire forming a bridge or connection between two points of the apparatus; -- invented by Sir Charles Wheatstone. 

BRIDGEBOARD:  A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps of wooden stairs are fastened.  2. A board or plank used as a bridge. 

BRIDGEHEAD:  A fortification commanding the extremity of a bridge nearest the enemy, to insure the preservation and usefulness of the bridge, and prevent the enemy from crossing; a tête-de-pont.  BRIDGEING; BRIDGING Bridge"ing, Bridg"ing, n. (Arch.)  The system of bracing used between floor or other timbers to distribute the weight. Bridging joist. Same as Binding joist. 

BRIDGELESS:  Having no bridge; not bridged. 

BRIDGEPOT:  The adjustable socket, or step, of a millstone spindle. Knight. 

BRIDGETREE:  The beam which supports the spindle socket of the runner in a grinding mill. Knight.  BRIDGE-WARD Bridge"-ward`, n.  1. A bridge keeper; a warden or a guard for a bridge. [Obs.] Sir W. Scott.  2. The principal ward of a key. Knight. 

BRIDGEY:  Full of bridges. [R.] Sherwood. 

BRIDLE:  The piece in the interior of a gun lock, which holds in place the timbler, sear, etc.  4. (Naut.) (a) A span of rope, line, or chain made fast as both ends, so that another rope, line, or chain may be attached to its middle. (b) A mooring hawser. Bowline bridle. See under Bowline.  -- Branches of a bridle. See under Branch.  -- Bridle cable (Naut.), a cable which is bent to a bridle. See 4, above.  -- Bridle hand, the hand which holds the bridle in riding; the left hand.  -- Bridle path, Bridle way, a path or way for saddle horses and pack horses, as distinguished from a road for vehicles.  -- Bridle port (Naut.), a porthole or opening in the bow through which hawsers, mooring or bridle cables, etc., are passed.  -- Bridle rein, a rein attached to the bit.  -- Bridle road. (a) Same as Bridle path. Lowell. (b) A road in a pleasure park reserved for horseback exercise.  -- Bridle track, a bridle path.  -- Scolding bridle. See Branks, 2.  Syn.  -- A check; restrain. 

BRIDLE:  To hold up the head, and draw in the chin, as an expression of pride, scorn, or resentment; to assume a lofty manner; -- usually with up. "His bridling neck." Wordsworth. By her bridling up I perceived she expected to be treated hereafter not as Jenny Distaff, but Mrs. Tranquillus. Tatler.  BRIDLE IRON Bri"dle i`ron. (Arch.)  A strong flat bar of iron, so bent as to support, as in a stirrup, one end of a floor timber, etc., where no sufficient bearing can be had; -- called also stirrup and hanger. 

BRIDLER:  One who bridles; one who restrains and governs, as with a bridle. Milton. 

BRIDOON:  The snaffle and rein of a military bridle, which acts independently of the bit, at the pleasure of the rider. It is used in connection with a curb bit, which has its own rein. Campbell.  BRIE CHEESE Brie" cheese".  A kind of soft French cream cheese; -- so called from the district in France where it is made; --called also fromage de Brie. 

BRIEF:  An abridgment or concise statement of a client's case, made out for the instruction of counsel in a trial at law. This word is applied also to a statement of the heads or points of a law argument. It was not without some reference to it that I perused many a brief. Sir J. Stephen.  Note: In England, the brief is prepared by the attorney; in the United States, counsel generally make up their own briefs.  4. (Law)  A writ; a breve. See Breve, n., 2.  5. (Scots Law)  A writ issuing from the chancery, directed to any judge ordinary, commanding and authorizing that judge to call a jury to inquire into the case, and upon their verdict to pronounce sentence.  6. A letter patent, from proper authority, authorizing a collection or charitable contribution of money in churches, for any public or private purpose. [Eng.] Apostolical brief, a letter of the pope written on fine parchment in modern characters, subscribed by the secretary of briefs, dated "a die Nativitatis," i. e., "from the day of the Nativity," and sealed with the ring of the fisherman. It differs from a bull, in its parchment, written character, date, and seal. See Bull.  -- Brief of title, an abstract or abridgment of all the deeds and other papers constituting the chain of title to any real estate.  -- In brief, in a few words; in short; briefly. "Open the matter in brief." Shak. 

BRIEF:  To make an abstract or abridgment of; to shorten; as, to brief pleadings. 

BRIEFLESS:  Having no brief; without clients; as, a briefless barrister. 

BRIEFLY:  Concisely; in few words. 

BRIEFNESS:  The quality of being brief; brevity; conciseness in discourse or writing.  BRIER; BRIAR Bri"er, Bri"ar, n. Etym: [OE. brere, brer, AS. brer, brær; cf. Ir. briar prickle, thorn, brier, pin, Gael. preas bush, brier, W. prys, prysg.]  1. A plant with a slender woody stem bearing stout prickles; especially, species of Rosa, Rubus, and Smilax.  2. Fig.: Anything sharp or unpleasant to the feelings. The thorns and briers of reproof. Cowper. Brier root, the root of the southern Smilax laurifolia and S. Walleri; -- used for tobacco pipes.  -- Cat brier, Green brier, several species of Smilax (S. rotundifolia, etc.) -- Sweet brier (Rosa rubiginosa). See Sweetbrier.  -- Yellow brier, the Rosa Eglantina. 

BRIERED:  Set with briers. Chatterton. 

BRIERY:  Full of briers; thorny. 

BRIERY:  A place where briers grow. Huloet. 

BRIG:  A bridge. [Scot.] Burns. 

BRIG:  A two-masted, square-rigged vessel. Hermaphrodite brig, a two- masted vessel square-rigged forward and schooner-rigged aft. See Illustration in Appendix. 

BRIGADE:  A body of troops, whether cavalry, artillery, infantry, or mixed, consisting of two or more regiments, under the command of a brigadier general.  Note: Two or more brigades constitute a division, commanded by a major general; two or more divisions constitute an army corps, or corps d'armée. [U.S.]  2. Any body of persons organized for acting or marching together under authority; as, a fire brigade. Brigade inspector, an officer whose duty is to inspect troops in companies before they are mustered into service.  -- Brigade major, an officer who may be attached to a brigade to assist the brigadier in his duties. 

BRIGADE:  To form into a brigade, or into brigades.  BRIGADIER GENERAL Brig`a*dier" gen"er*al. Etym: [F. brigadier, fr. brigade.] (Mil.)  An officer in rank next above a colonel, and below a major general. He commands a brigade, and is sometimes called, by a shortening of his title, simple a brigadier. 

BRIGANDAGE:  Life and practice of brigands; highway robbery; plunder. 

BRIGANDINE:  A coast of armor for the body, consisting of scales or plates, sometimes overlapping each other, generally of metal, and sewed to linen or other material. It was worn in the Middle Ages. [Written also brigantine.] Jer. xlvi. 4. Then put on all thy gorgeous arms, thy helmet, And brigandine of brass. Milton. 

BRIGANDISH:  Like a brigand or freebooter; robberlike. 

BRIGANDISM:  Brigandage. 

BRIGGE:  A bridge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BRIGHT:  See Brite, v. i. 

BRIGHT:  Splendor; brightness. [Poetic] Dark with excessive bright thy skirts appear. Milton. 

BRIGHT:  Brightly. Chaucer. I say it is the moon that shines so bright. Shak. 

BRIGHTEN:  To grow bright, or more bright; to become less dark or gloomy; to clear up; to become bright or cheerful. And night shall brighten into day. N. Cotton. And, all his prospects brightening to the last, His heaven commences ere world be past. Goldsmith.  BRIGHT-HARNESSED Bright"-har`nessed, a.  Having glittering armor. [Poetic] Milton. 

BRIGHTNESS:  An affection of the kidneys, usually inflammatory in character, and distinguished by the occurrence of albumin and renal casts in the urine. Several varieties of Bright's disease are now recognized, differing in the part of the kidney involved, and in the intensity and course of the morbid process. 

BRIGHTSOME:  Bright; clear; luminous; brilliant. [R.] Marlowe. 

BRIGOSE:  Contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Puller. 

BRIGUE:  A cabal, intrigue, faction, contention, strife, or quarrel. [Obs.] Chesterfield. 

BRIGUE:  To contend for; to canvass; to solicit. [Obs.] Bp. Hurd. 

BRIKE:  A breach; ruin; downfall; peril. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BRILL:  A fish allied to the turbot (Rhombus levis), much esteemed in England for food; -- called also bret, pearl, prill. See Bret. 

BRILLANTE:  In a gay, showy, and sparkling style. 

BRILLIANCE:  Brilliancy. Tennyson. 

BRILLIANCY:  The quality of being brilliant; splendor; glitter; great brighness, whether in a literal or figurative sense. With many readers brilliancy of style passes for affluence of thought. Longfellow. 

BRILLIANT:  The small size of type used in England printing.  Note: This line is printed in the type called Brilliant.  3. A kind of kotton goods, figured on the weaving. 

BRILLIANTLY:  In a brilliant manner. 

BRILLIANTNESS:  Brilliancy; splendor; glitter. 

BRILLS:  The hair on the eyelids of a horse. Bailey. 

BRIM:  To be full to the brim. "The brimming stream." Milton. To brim over (literally or figuratively), to be so full that some of the contents flows over the brim; as, cup brimming over with wine; a man brimming over with fun. 

BRIM:  To fill to the brim, upper edge, or top. Arrange the board and brim the glass. Tennyson. 

BRIM:  Fierce; sharp; cold. See Breme. [Obs.] 

BRIMFUL:  Full to the brim; completely full; ready to overflow. "Her brimful eyes." Dryden. 

BRIMLESS:  Having no brim; as, brimless caps. 

BRIMMER:  A brimful bowl; a bumper. 

BRIMMING:  Full to the brim; overflowing. 

BRIMSTONE:  Sulphur; See Sulphur. 

BRIMSTONE:  Made of, or pertaining to, brimstone; as, brimstone matches. From his brimstone bed at break of day A-walking the devil has gone. Coleridge. 

BRIMSTONY:  Containing or resembling brimstone; sulphurous. B. Jonson. 

BRIN:  One of the radiating sticks of a fan. The outermost are larger and longer, and are called panaches. Knight. 

BRINDED:  Of a gray or tawny color with streaks of darker hue; streaked; brindled. "Three brinded cows," Dryden. "The brinded cat." Shak. 

BRINDLE:  Brindled. 

BRINDLED:  Having dark streaks or spots on a gray or tawny ground; brinded. "With a brindled lion played." Churchill. 

BRINGER:  One who brings. Yet the first bringer of unwelcome news Hath but a losing office. Shak. Bringer in, one who, or that which, introduces. 

BRININESS:  The state or quality of being briny; saltness; brinishness. 

BRINISH:  Like brine; somewhat salt; saltish. "Brinish tears." Shak. 

BRINISHNESS:  State or quality of being brinish. 

BRINJAREE:  A rough-haired East Indian variety of the greyhound. 

BRINK:  The edge, margin, or border of a steep place, as of a precipice; a bank or edge, as of a river or pit; a verge; a border; as, the brink of a chasm. Also Fig. "The brink of vice." Bp. Porteus. "The brink of ruin." Burke. The plashy brink of weedy lake. Bryant. 

BRINY:  Of or pertaining to brine, or to the sea; partaking of the nature of brine; salt; as, a briny taste; the briny flood. 

BRIOLETTE:  An oval or pearshaped diamond having its entire surface cut in triangular facets. 

BRIONY:  See Bryony. Tennyson. 

BRISK:  To make or become lively; to enliven; to animate; to take, or cause to take, an erect or bold attitude; -- usually with up. 

BRISKET:  That part of the breast of an animal which extends from the fore legs back beneath the ribs; also applied to the fore part of a horse, from the shoulders to the bottom of the chest.  Note: [See Illust. of Beef.] 

BRISKLY:  In a brisk manner; nimbly. 

BRISKNESS:  Liveliness; vigor in action; quickness; gayety; vivacity; effervescence. 

BRISTLE:  A stiff, sharp, roundish hair. Gray. 

BRISTLE:  Terminating in a very fine, sharp point, as some leaves.  BRISTLE-SHAPED Bris"tle-shaped`, a.  Resembling a bristle in form; as, a bristle-shaped leaf. 

BRISTLETAIL:  An insect of the genera Lepisma, Campodea, etc., belonging to the Thysanura. 

BRISTLINESS:  The quality or state of having bristles. 

BRISTLY:  THick set with bristles, or with hairs resembling bristles; rough. The leaves of the black mulberry are somewhat bristly. Bacon. 

BRISTOL:  A seaport city in the west of England. Bristol board, a kind of fine pasteboard, made with a smooth but usually unglazed surface.  -- Bristol brick, a brick of siliceous matter used for polishing cultery; -- originally manufactured at Bristol.  -- Bristol stone, rock crystal, or brilliant crystals of quartz, found in the mountain limestone near Bristol, and used in making ornaments, vases, etc. When polished, it is called Bristol diamond. 

BRISURE:  Any part of a rampart or parapet which deviates from the general direction.  2. (Her.)  A mark of cadency or difference.  BRIT; BRITT Brit, Britt, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The young of the common herring; also, a small species of herring; the sprat. (b) The minute marine animals (chiefly Entomostraca) upon which the right whales feed. 

BRITANNIA:  A white-metal alloy of tin, antimony, bismuth, copper, etc. It somewhat resembles silver, and isused for table ware. Called also Britannia metal. 

BRITANNIC:  Of or pertaining to Great Britain; British; as, her Britannic Majesty.  BRITE; BRIGHT Brite, Bright, v. t.  To be or become overripe, as wheat, barley, or hops. [Prov. Eng.] 

BRITICISM:  A word, phrase, or idiom peculiar to Great Britain; any manner of using a word or words that is peculiar to Great Britain. 

BRITISH:  Of or pertaining to Great Britain or to its inhabitants; -- sometimes restrict to the original inhabitants. British gum, a brownish substance, very soluble in cold water, formed by heating dry starch at a temperature of about 600° Fahr. It corresponds, in its properties, to dextrin, and is used, in solution, as a substitute for gum in stiffering goods.  -- British lion, the national emblem of Great Britain.  -- British seas, the four seas which surround Great Britain. 

BRITISH:  People of Great Britain. 

BRITISHER:  An Englishman; a subject or inhabitant of Great Britain, esp. one in the British military or naval service. [Now used jocosely] 

BRITON:  British. [Obs.] Spenser.  -- n.  A native of Great Britain. 

BRITTLE:  Easily broken; apt to break; fragile; not tough or tenacious. Farewell, thou pretty, brittle piece Of fine-cut crystal. Cotton. Brittle silver ore, the mineral stephanite. 

BRITTLELY:  In a brittle manner. Sherwood. 

BRITTLENESS:  Aptness to break; fragility.  BRITTLE STAR Brit"tle star`.  Any species of ophiuran starfishes. See Ophiuroidea. 

BRITZSKA:  A long carriage, with a calash top, so constructed as to give space for reclining at night, when used on a journey. 

BRIZE:  The breeze fly. See Breeze. Shak. 

BROACH:  A broad chisel for stonecutting.  5. (Arch.)  A spire rising from a tower. [Local, Eng.]  6. A clasp for fastening a garment. See Brooch.  7. A spitlike start, on the head of a young stag.  8. The stick from which candle wicks are suspended for dipping. Knight.  9. The pin in a lock which enters the barrel of the key. 

BROACH:  To shape roughly, as a block of stone, by chiseling with a coarse tool. [Scot. & North of Eng.]  7. To enlarge or dress (a hole), by using a broach. To broach to (Naut.), to incline suddenly to windward, so as to lay the sails aback, and expose the vessel to the danger of oversetting. 

BROAD:  Characterized by breadth. See Breadth.  9. Cross; coarse; indelicate; as, a broad compliment; a broad joke; broad humor.  10. Strongly marked; as, a broad Scotch accent.  Note: Broad is often used in compounds to signify wide, large, etc.; as, broad-chested, broad-shouldered, broad-spreading, broad-winged. Broad acres. See under Acre.  -- Broad arrow, originally a pheon. See Pheon, and Broad arrow under Arrow.  -- As broad as long, having the length equal to the breadth; hence, the same one way as another; coming to the same result by different ways or processes. It is as broad as long, whether they rise to others, or bring others down to them. L'Estrange. Broad pennant. See under Pennant.  Syn.  -- Wide; large; ample; expanded; spacious; roomy; extensive; vast; comprehensive; liberal. 

BROADBILL:  A wild duck (Aythya, or Fuligula, marila), which appears in large numbers on the eastern coast of the United States, in autumn; - - called also bluebill, blackhead, raft duck, and scaup duck. See Scaup duck.  2. (Zoöl.)  The shoveler. See Shoveler. 

BROADBRIM:  Having a broad brim. A broad-brimmed flat silver plate. Tatler. 

BROADCAST:  A casting or throwing seed in all directions, as from the hand in sowing. 

BROADCAST:  So as to scatter or be scattered in all directions; so as to spread widely, as seed from the hand in sowing, or news from the press.  BROAD CHURCH Broad" Church`. (Eccl.)  A portion of the Church of England, consisting of persons who claim to hold a position, in respect to doctrine and fellowship, intermediate between the High Church party and the Low Church, or evangelical, party. The term has been applied to otherbodies of men holding liberal or comprehensive views of Christian doctrine and fellowship. Side by side with these various shades of High and Low Church, another party of a different character has always existed in the Church of England. It is called by different names: Moderate, Catholic, or Broad Church, by its friends; Latitudinarian or Indifferent, by its enemies. Its distinctive character is the desire of comprehension. Its watch words are charity and toleration. Conybeare. 

BROADCLOTH:  A fine smooth-faced woolen cloth for men's garments, usually of double width (i.e., a yard and a half); -- so called in distinction from woolens three quarters of a yard wide. 

BROADEN:  To grow broad; to become broader or wider. The broadening sun appears. Wordsworth. 

BROADEN:  To make broad or broader; to render more broad or comprehensive.  BROAD GAUGE Broad" gauge`. (Railroad)  A wider distance between the rails than the "standard" gauge of four feet eight inches and a half. See Gauge.  BROAD-HORNED Broad"-horned`, a.  Having horns spreading widely. 

BROADISH:  Rather broad; moderately broad. 

BROADLEAF:  A tree (Terminalia latifolia) of Jamaica, the wood of which is used for boards, scantling, shingles, etc; -- sometimes called the almond tree, from the shape of its fruit.  BROAD-LEAVED; BROAD-LEAFED Broad"-leaved`, Broad"-leafed`, a.  Having broad, or relatively broad, leaves. Keats. 

BROADLY:  In a broad manner. 

BROADMOUTH:  One of the Eurylaimidæ, a family of East Indian passerine birds. 

BROADNESS:  The condition or quality of being broad; breadth; coarseness; grossness. 

BROADPIECE:  An old English gold coin, broader than a guinea, as a Carolus or Jacobus.  BROAD SEAL Broad" seal`.  The great seal of England; the public seal of a country or state. 

BROADSEAL:  To stamp with the broad seal; to make sure; to guarantee or warrant. [Obs.] Thy presence broadseals our delights for pure. B. Jonson. 

BROADSIDE:  The side of a ship above the water line, from the bow to the quarter.  2. A discharge of or from all the guns on one side of a ship, at the same time.  3. A volley of abuse or denunciation. [Colloq.]  4. (Print.)  A sheet of paper containing one large page, or printed on one side only; -- called also broadsheet. 

BROADSPREAD:  Widespread. 

BROADSPREADING:  Spreading widely. 

BROADSWORD:  A sword with a broad blade and a cutting edge; a claymore. I heard the broadsword's deadly clang. Sir W. Scott. 

BROADWISE:  Breadthwise. [Archaic] 

BROB:  A peculiar brad-shaped spike, to be driven alongside the end of an abutting timber to prevent its slipping. 

BROBDINGNAGIAN:  Colossal' of extraordinary height; gigantic.  -- n.  A giant. [Spelt often Brobdignagian.] 

BROCADE:  Silk stuff, woven with gold and silver threads, or ornamented with raised flowers, foliage, etc.; -- also applied to other stuffs thus wrought and enriched. A gala suit of faded brocade. W. Irving. 

BROCAGE:  See Brokkerage. 

BROCARD:  An elementary principle or maximum; a short, proverbial rule, in law, ethics, or metaphysics. The legal brocard, "Falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus," is a rule not more applicable to other witness than to consciousness. Sir W. Hamilton. 

BROCATELLO:  Same as Brocatel. 

BROCCOLI:  A plant of the Cabbage species (Brassica oleracea) of many varieties, resembling the cauliflower. The "curd," or flowering head, is the part used for food. 

BROCHANTITE:  A basic sulphate of copper, occurring in emerald-green crystals. 

BROCHE:  Woven with a figure; as, broché goods. 

BROCHE:  See Broach, n. 

BROCHETTE:  A small spit or skewer.  -- En bro`chette" (än) [F.], on a brochette; skewered. 

BROCHURE:  A printed and stitched book containing only a few leaves; a pamphlet. 

BROCK:  A badger. Or with pretense of chasing thence the brock. B. Jonson. 

BROCK:  A brocket. Bailey.  BROCKEN SPECTER; BROCKEN SPECTRE Brock"en spec"ter or Brock"en spec"tre. [Trans. of G. Brockengespenst.]  A mountain specter (which see), esp. that observed on the Brocken, in the Harz Mountains. 

BROCKET:  A male red deer two years old; -- sometimes called brock.  2. (Zoöl.)  A small South American deer, of several species (Coassus superciliaris, C. rufus, and C. auritus). 

BROCKISH:  Beastly; brutal. [Obs.] Bale. 

BRODEKIN:  A buskin or half-boot. [Written also brodequin.] [Obs.] 

BROG:  A pointed instrument, as a joiner's awl, a brad awl, a needle, or a small ship stick. 

BROG:  To prod with a pointed instrument, as a lance; also, to broggle. [Scot. & Prov.] Sir W. Scott. 

BROGAN:  A stout, coarse shoe; a brogue. 

BROGGLE:  To sniggle, or fish with a brog. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

BROGUES:  Breeches. [Obs.] Shenstone. 

BROID:  To braid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BROIDER:  To embroider. [Archaic] They shall make a broidered coat. Ex. xxviii. 4. 

BROIDERER:  One who embroiders. [Archaic] 

BROIDERY:  Embroidery. [Archaic] The golden broidery tender Milkah wove. Tickell. 

BROIL:  A tumult; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl; contention; discord, either between individuals or in the state. I will own that there is a haughtiness and fierceness in human nature which will which will cause innumerable broils, place men in what situation you please. Burke.  Syn.  -- Contention; fray; affray; tumult; altercation; dissension; discord; contest; conflict; brawl; uproar. 

BROIL:  To be subjected to the action of heat, as meat over the fire; to be greatly heated, or to be made uncomfortable with heat. The planets and comets had been broiling in the sun. Cheyne. 

BROILER:  One who excites broils; one who engages in or promotes noisy quarrels. What doth he but turn broiler, . . . make new libels against the church Hammond. 

BROILING:  Excessively hot; as, a broiling sun.  -- n.  The act of causing anything to broil. 

BROKAGE:  See Brokerage. 

BROKE:  imp. & p. p. of Break. 

BROKEN:  Hogged; so weakened in the frame as to droop at each end; -- said of a ship. Totten.  BROKEN-BELLIED Bro"ken-bel`lied, a.  Having a ruptured belly. [R.]  BROKEN BREAST Bro"ken breast`.  Abscess of the mammary gland.  BROKEN-HEARTED Bro"ken-heart`ed, a.  Having the spirits depressed or crushed by grief or despair. She left her husband almost broken-hearted. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Disconsolable; heart-broken; inconsolable; comfortless; woe- begone; forlorn. 

BROKENLY:  In a broken, interrupted manner; in a broken state; in broken language. The pagans worship God . . . as it were brokenly and by piecemeal. Cudworth. 

BROKENNESS:  The heaves.  BROKEN-WINDED Bro"ken-wind`ed, a. (Far.)  Having short breath or disordered respiration, as a horse. 

BROKER:  An agent employed to effect bargains and contracts, as a middleman or negotiator, between other persons, for a compensation commonly called brokerage. He takes no possession, as broker, of the subject matter of the negotiation. He generally contracts in the names of those who employ him, and not in his own. Story.  3. A dealer in money, notes, bills of exchange, etc.  4. A dealer in secondhand goods. [Eng.]  5. A pimp or procurer. [Obs.] Shak. Bill broker, one who buys and sells notes and bills of exchange.  -- Curbstone broker or Street broker, an operator in stocks (not a member of the Stock Exchange) who executes orders by running from office to office, or by transactions on the street. [U.S.] -- Exchange broker, one who buys and sells uncurrent money, and deals in exchanges relating to money.  -- Insurance broker, one who is agent in procuring insurance on vessels, or against fire.  -- Pawn broker. See Pawnbroker.  -- Real estate broker, one who buys and sells lands, and negotiates loans, etc., upon mortgage.  -- Ship broker, one who acts as agent in buying and selling ships, procuring freight, etc.  -- Stock broker. See Stockbroker. 

BROKERLY:  Mean; servile. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BROKERY:  The business of a broker. [Obs.] And with extorting, cozening, forfeiting, And tricks belonging unto brokery. Marlowe. 

BROKING:  Of or pertaining to a broker or brokers, or to brokerage. [Obs.] Redeem from broking pawn the blemished crown. Shak. 

BROMA:  Aliment; food. Dunglison.  2. A light form of prepared cocoa (or cacao), or the drink made from it. 

BROMAL:  An oily, colorless fluid, CBr 

BROMALIN:  A colorless or white crystalline compound, (CH2)6N4C2H5Br, used as a sedative in epilepsy. 

BROMANIL:  A substance analogous to chloranil but containing bromine in place of chlorine. 

BROMATE:  A salt of bromic acid. 

BROMATE:  To combine or impregnate with bromine; as, bromated camphor. 

BROMATOLOGIST:  One versed in the science of foods. 

BROMATOLOGY:  The science of aliments. Dunglison. 

BROME:  See Bromine.  BROME GRASS Brome" grass`. Etym: [L. bromos a kind of oats, Gr. (Bot.)  A genus (Bromus) of grasses, one species of which is the chess or cheat. 

BROMELIACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a family of endogenous and mostly epiphytic or saxicolous plants of which the genera Tillandsia and Billbergia are examples. The pineapple, though terrestrial, is also of this family. 

BROMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, bromine; -- said of those compounds of bromine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, bromic acid. 

BROMIDE:  A compound of bromine with a positive radical.  BROMIDE PAPER; BROMID PAPER Bromide paper or Bromid paper. (Photog.)  A sensitized paper coated with gelatin impregnated with bromide of silver, used in contact printing and in enlarging. 

BROMIDIOM:  A conventional comment or saying, such as those characteristic of bromides. [Slang] 

BROMINATE:  See Bromate, v. t. 

BROMINE:  One of the elements, related in its chemical qualities to chlorine and iodine. Atomic weight 79.8. Symbol Br. It is a deep reddish brown liquid of a very disagreeable odor, emitting a brownish vapor at the ordinary temperature. In combination it is found in minute quantities in sea water, and in many saline springs. It occurs also in the mineral bromyrite. 

BROMISM:  A diseased condition produced by the excessive use of bromine or one of its compounds. It is characterized by mental dullness and muscular weakness. 

BROMIZE:  To prepare or treat with bromine; as, to bromize a silvered plate. 

BROMLIFE:  A carbonate of baryta and lime, intermediate between witherite and strontianite; -- called also alstonite. 

BROMOFORM:  A colorless liquid, CHBr3, having an agreeable odor and sweetish taste. It is produced by the simultaneous action of bromine and caustic potash upon wood spirit, alcohol, or acetone, as also by certain other reactions. In composition it is the same as chloroform, with the substitution of bromine for chlorine. It is somewhat similar to chloroform in its effects. Watts. 

BROMOGELATIN:  Designating or pertaining to, a process of preparing dry plates with an emulsion of bromides and silver nitrate in gelatin. 

BROMOIODISM:  Poisoning induced by large doses of bromine and iodine or of their compounds. 

BROMOIODIZED:  Treated with bromides and iodides. 

BROMOL:  A crystalline substance (chemically, tribromophenol, C6H2Br3OH), used as an antiseptic and disinfectant. 

BROMPICRIN:  A pungent colorless explosive liquid, CNO2Br3, analogous to and resembling chlorpicrin. [Spelt also brompikrin.] 

BROMURET:  See Bromide. [Obs.] 

BROMYRITE:  Silver bromide, a rare mineral; -- called also bromargyrite. 

BRONCHI:  See Bronchus. 

BRONCHIA:  The bronchial tubes which arise from the branching of the trachea, esp. the subdivision of the bronchi. Dunglison. 

BRONCHIAL:  Belonging to the bronchi and their ramifications in the lungs. Bronchial arteries, branches of the descending aorta, accompanying the bronchia in all their ramifications.  -- Bronchial cells, the air cells terminating the bronchia.  -- Bronchial glands, glands whose functions are unknown, seated along the bronchia.  -- Bronchial membrane, the mucous membrane lining the bronchia.  -- Bronchial tube, the bronchi, or the bronchia. 

BRONCHIC:  Bronchial. 

BRONCHIOLE:  A minute bronchial tube. 

BRONCHITIC:  Of or pertaining to bronchitis; as, bronchitic inflammation. 

BRONCHITIS:  Inflammation, acute or chronic, of the bronchial tubes or any part of them. 

BRONCHO:  A native or a Mexican horse of small size. [Western U.S.] 

BRONCHOCELE:  See Goiter. 

BRONCHOPHONY:  A modification of the voice sounds, by which they are intensified and heightened in pitch; -- observed in auscultation of the chest in certain cases of intro-thoracic disease.  BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA Bron`cho-pneu*mo"ni*a, n. Etym: [Bronchus + pneumonia.] (Med.)  Inflammation of the bronchi and lungs; catarrhal pneumonia. 

BRONCHOTOME:  An instrument for cutting into the bronchial tubes. 

BRONCHOTOMY:  An incision into the windpipe or larynx, including the operations of tracheotomy and laryngotomy. 

BRONCHUS:  One of the subdivisions of the trachea or windpipe; esp. one of the two primary divisions. 

BRONCO:  Same as Broncho. 

BROND:  A sword. [Obs.] 

BRONTOGRAPH:  An aërolite. [R.] 

BRONTOLOGY:  A treatise upon thunder. 

BRONTOMETER:  An instrument for noting or recording phenomena attendant on thunderstorms. 

BRONTOSAURUS:  A genus of American jurassic dinosaurs. A length of sixty feet is believed to have been attained by these reptiles. 

BRONTOTHERIUM:  A genus of large extinct mammals from the miocene strata of western North America. They were allied to the rhinoceros, but the skull bears a pair of powerful horn cores in front of the orbits, and the fore feet were four-toed. See Illustration in Appendix. 

BRONTOZOUM:  An extinct animal of large size, known from its three-toed footprints in Mesozoic sandstone.  Note: The tracks made by these reptiles are found eighteen inches in length, and were formerly referred to gigantic birds; but the discovery of large bipedal three-toed dinosaurs has suggested that they were made by those reptiles. 

BRONZE:  A hard tough alloy of tin, copper, and iron, which can be used for guns. 

BRONZEWING:  An Australian pigeon of the genus Phaps, of several species; -- so called from its bronze plumage. 

BRONZINE:  A metal so prepared as to have the appearance of bronze.  -- a.  Made of bronzine; resembling bronze; bronzelike. 

BRONZIST:  One who makes, imitates, collects, or deals in, bronzes. 

BRONZITE:  A variety of enstatite, often having a bronzelike luster. It is a silicate of magnesia and iron, of the pyroxene family. 

BRONZY:  Like bronze. 

BROOCH:  A painting all of one color, as a sepia painting, or an India painting. 

BROOCH:  To adorn as with a brooch. [R.] 

BROOD:  Heavy waste in tin and copper ores. To sit on brood, to ponder. [Poetic] Shak. 

BROODY:  Inclined to brood. Ray. 

BROOK:  A natural stream of water smaller than a river or creek. The Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks of water. Deut. viii. 7. Empires itself, as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters. Shak. 

BROOKITE:  A mineral consisting of titanic oxide, and hence identical with rutile and octahedrite in composition, but crystallizing in the orthorhombic system. 

BROOKLET:  A small brook. 

BROOKLIME:  A plant (Veronica Beccabunga), with flowers, usually blue, in axillary racemes. The American species is V. Americana. [Formerly written broklempe or broklympe.]  BROOK MINT Brook" mint`. (Bot.)  See Water mint. 

BROOKSIDE:  The bank of a brook. 

BROOKWEED:  A small white-flowered herb (Samolus Valerandi) found usually in wet places; water pimpernel. 

BROOM:  A plant having twigs suitable for making brooms to sweep with when bound together; esp., the Cytisus scoparius of Western Europe, which is a low shrub with long, straight, green, angular branches, mintue leaves, and large yellow flowers. No gypsy cowered o'er fires of furze and broom. Wordsworth.  2. An implement for sweeping floors, etc., commonly made of the panicles or tops of broom corn, bound together or attached to a long wooden handle; -- so called because originally made of the twigs of the broom. Butcher's broom, a plant (Ruscus aculeatus) of the Smilax family, used by butchers for brooms to sweep their blocks; -- called also knee holly. See Cladophyll.  -- Dyer's broom, a species of mignonette (Reseda luteola), used for dyeing yellow; dyer's weed; dyer's rocket.  -- Spanish broom. See under Spanish. 

BROOM:  See Bream.  BROOM CORN Broom" corn`. (Bot.)  A variety of Sorghum vulgare, having a joined stem, like maize, rising to the height of eight or ten feet, and bearing its seeds on a panicle with long branches, of which brooms are made.  BROOM RAPE Broom" rape`. (Bot.)  A genus (Orobanche) of parasitic plants of Europe and Asia. They are destitute of chlorophyll, have scales instead of leaves, and spiked flowers, and grow attached to the roots of other plants, as furze, clover, flax, wild carrot, etc. The name is sometimes applied to other plants related to this genus, as Aphyllon uniflorumand A. Ludovicianum. 

BROOMSTAFF:  A broomstick. [Obs.] Shak. 

BROOMSTICK:  A stick used as a handle of a broom. 

BROOMY:  Of or pertaining to broom; overgrowing with broom; resembling broom or a broom. If land grow mossy or broomy. Mortimer. 

BROSE:  Pottage made by pouring some boiling liquid on meal (esp. oatmeal), and stirring it. It is called beef brose, water brose, etc., according to the name of the liquid (beef broth, hot water, etc.) used. [Scot.] 

BROTEL:  Brittle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BROTELNESS:  Brittleness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BROTH:  Liquid in which flesh (and sometimes other substances, as barley or rice) has been boiled; thin or simple soup. I am sure by your unprejudiced discourses that you love broth better than soup. Addison. 

BROTHEL:  A house of lewdness or ill fame; a house frequented by prostitutes; a bawdyhouse. 

BROTHELER:  One who frequents brothels. 

BROTHELRY:  Lewdness; obscenity; a brothel. B. Jonson. 

BROTHER:  To make a brother of; to call or treat as a brother; to admit to a brotherhood. Sir W. Scott.  BROTHER GERMAN Broth"er ger"man. (Law)  A brother by both the father's and mother's side, in contradistinction to a uterine brother, one by the mother only. Bouvier. 

BROTHERHOOD:  The brother of one's husband or wife; also, the husband of one's sister; sometimes, the husband of one's wife's sister. 

BROTHERLINESS:  The state or quality of being brotherly. 

BROTHERLY:  Of or pertaining to brothers; such as is natural for brothers; becoming to brothers; kind; affectionate; as, brotherly love.  Syn.  -- Fraternal; kind; affectionate; tender. 

BROTHERLY:  Like a brother; affectionately; kindly. "I speak but brotherly of him." Shak. 

BROUDED:  Braided; broidered. [Obs.] Alle his clothes brouded up and down. Chaucer. 

BROUGHAM:  A light, close carriage, with seats inside for two or four, and the fore wheels so arranged as to turn short. 

BROW:  To bound to limit; to be at, or form, the edge of. [R.] Tending my flocks hard by i' the hilly crofts That brow this bottom glade. Milton. 

BROWBEAT:  To depress or bear down with haughty, stern looks, or with arrogant speech and dogmatic assertions; to abash or disconcert by impudent or abusive words or looks; to bully; as, to browbeat witnesses. My grandfather was not a man to be browbeaten. W. Irving. 

BROWBEATING:  The act of bearing down, abashing, or disconcerting, with stern looks, suspercilious manners, or confident assertions. The imperious browbeating and scorn of great men. L'Estrange. 

BROWBOUND:  Crowned; having the head encircled as with a diadem. Shak. 

BROWDYNG:  Embroidery. [Obs.] Of goldsmithrye, of browdying, and of steel. Chaucer. 

BROWED:  Having (such) a brow; -- used in composition; as, dark-browed, stern-browed. 

BROWLESS:  Without shame. L. Addison. 

BROWN:  Of a dark color, of various shades between black and red or yellow. Cheeks brown as the oak leaves. Longfellow. Brown Bess, the old regulation flintlock smoothbore musket, with bronzed barrel, formerly used in the British army.  -- Brown bread (a) Dark colored bread; esp. a kind made of unbolted wheat flour, sometimes called in the United States Graham bread. "He would mouth with a beggar though she smelt brown bread and garlic." Shak. (b) Dark colored bread made of rye meal and Indian meal, or of wheat and rye or Indian; rye and Indian bread. [U.S.] -- Brown coal, wood coal. See Lignite.  -- Brown hematite or Brown iron ore (Min.), the hydrous iron oxide, limonite, which has a brown streak. See Limonite.  -- Brown holland. See under Holland.  -- Brown paper, dark colored paper, esp. coarse wrapping paper, made of unbleached materials.  -- Brown spar (Min.), a ferruginous variety of dolomite, in part identical with ankerite.  -- Brown stone. See Brownstone.  -- Brown stout, a strong kind of proter or malt liquor.  -- Brown study, a state of mental abstraction or serious reverie. W. Irving. 

BROWN:  A dark color inclining to red or yellow, resulting from the mixture of red and black, or of red, black, and yellow; a tawny, dusky hue. 

BROWN:  To become brown. 

BROWNBACK:  The dowitcher or red-breasted snipe. See Dowitcher.  BROWN BILL Brown" bill`. Etym: [Brown + bill cutting tool.]  A bill or halberd of the 16th and 17th centuries. See 4th Bill. Many time, but for a sallet, my brainpan had been cleft with a brown bill. Shak.  Note: The black, or as it is sometimes called, the brown bill, was a kind of halberd, the cutting part hooked like a woodman's bill, from the back of which projected a spike, and another from the head. Grose. 

BROWNIAN:  Pertaining to Dr. Robert Brown, who first demonstrated (about 1827) the commonness of the motion described below. Brownian movement, the peculiar, rapid, vibratory movement exhibited by the microscopic particles of substances when suspended in water or other fluids. 

BROWNIE:  An imaginary good-natured spirit, who was supposed often to perform important services around the house by night, such as thrashing, churning, sweeping. [Scot.] 

BROWNING:  A smooth coat of brown mortar, usually the second coat, and the preparation for the finishing coat of plaster. 

BROWNISH:  Somewhat brown. 

BROWNISM:  The views or teachings of Robert Brown of the Brownists. Milton. 

BROWNISM:  The doctrines of the Brunonian system of medicine. See Brunonian. 

BROWNIST:  A follower of Robert Brown, of England, in the 16th century, who taught that every church is complete and independent in itself when organized, and consists of members meeting in one place, having full power to elect and depose its officers. 

BROWNIST:  One who advocates the Brunonian system of medicine. 

BROWNNESS:  The quality or state of being brown. Now like I brown (O lovely brown thy hair); Only in brownness beauty dwelleth there. Drayton.  BROWN RACE Brown race.  The Malay or Polynesian race; -- loosely so called. 

BROWNSTONE:  A dark variety of sandstone, much used for building purposes.  BROWN THRUSH Brown" thrush". (Zoöl.)  A common American singing bird (Harporhynchus rufus), allied to the mocking bird; -- also called brown thrasher. 

BROWNWORT:  A species of figwort or Scrophularia (S. vernalis), and other species of the same genus, mostly perennials with inconspicuous coarse flowers. 

BROWNY:  Brown or, somewhat brown. "Browny locks." Shak. 

BROWPOST:  A beam that goes across a building. 

BROWSE:  The tender branches or twigs of trees and shrubs, fit for the food of cattle and other animals; green food. Spenser. Sheep, goats, and oxen, and the nobler steed, On browse, and corn, and flowery meadows feed. Dryden. 

BROWSER:  An animal that browses. 

BROWSEWOOD:  Srubs and bushes upon which animals browse. 

BROWSING:  Browse; also, a place abounding with shrubs where animals may browse. Browsings for the deer. Howell. 

BROWSPOT:  A rounded organ between the eyes of the frog; the interocular gland. 

BRUANG:  The Malayan sun bear. 

BRUCINE:  A poweful vegetable alkaloid, found, associated with strychnine, in the seeds of different species of Strychnos, especially in the Nux vomica. It is less powerful than strychnine. Called also brucia and brucina. 

BRUCKELED:  Wet and dirty; begrimed. [Obs. or Dial.] Herrick. 

BRUH:  The rhesus monkey. See Rhesus. 

BRUIN:  A bear; -- so called in popular tales and fables. 

BRUISE:  To fight with the fists; to box. Bruising was considered a fine, manly, old English custom. Thackeray. 

BRUISE:  An injury to the flesh of animals, or to plants, fruit, etc., with a blunt or heavy instrument, or by collision with some other body; a contusion; as, a bruise on the head; bruises on fruit. From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness in it; but wounds, and bruises. Isa. i. 6. 

BRUISEWORT:  A plant supposed to heal bruises, as the true daisy, the soapwort, and the comfrey. 

BRUIT:  An abnormal sound of several kinds, heard on auscultation. 

BRUIT:  To report; to noise abroad. I find thou art no less than fame hath bruited. Shak. 

BRUMAIRE:  The second month of the calendar adopted by the first French republic. It began thirty days after the autumnal equinox. See Vendemiaire. 

BRUMAL:  Of or pertaining to winter. "The brumal solstice." Sir T. Browne. 

BRUME:  Mist; fog; vapors. "The drifting brume." Longfellow. 

BRUMMAGEM:  Counterfeit; gaudy but worthless; sham. [Slang] "These Brummagem gentry." Lady D. Hardy. 

BRUMOUS:  Foggy; misty. 

BRUN:  Same as Brun, a brook. [Scot.] 

BRUNETTE:  A girl or woman with a somewhat brown or dark complexion.  -- a.  Having a dark tint. 

BRUNION:  A nectarine. 

BRUNONIAN:  Pertaining to, or invented by, Brown; -- a term applied to a system of medicine promulgated in the 18th century by John Brown, of Scotland, the fundamental doctrine of which was, that life is a state of excitation produced by the normal action of external agents upon the body, and that disease consists in excess or deficiency of excitation.  BRUNSWICK BLACK Bruns"wick black`.  See Japan black.  BRUNSWICK GREEN Bruns"wick green`. Etym: [G. Braunschweiger grün, first made at Brunswick, in Germany.]  An oxychloride of copper, used as a green pigment; also, a carbonate of copper similarly employed. 

BRUSH:  A tuft of hair on the mandibles.  4. Branches of trees lopped off; brushwood.  5. A thicket of shrubs or small trees; the shrubs and small trees in a wood; underbrush.  6. (Elec.)  A bundle of flexible wires or thin plates of metal, used to conduct an electrical current to or from the commutator of a dynamo, electric motor, or similar apparatus.  7. The act of brushing; as, to give one's clothes a brush; a rubbing or grazing with a quick motion; a light touch; as, we got a brush from the wheel as it passed. [As leaves] have with one winter's brush Fell from their boughts. Shak.  8. A skirmish; a slight encounter; a shock or collision; as, to have a brush with an enemy. Let grow thy sinews till their knots be strong, And tempt not yet the brushes of the war. Shak.  9. A short contest, or trial, of speed. Let us enjoy a brush across the country. Cornhill Mag. Electrical brush, a form of the electric discharge characterized by a brushlike appearance of luminous rays diverging from an electrified body. 

BRUSH:  To move nimbly in haste; to move so lightly as scarcely to be perceived; as, to brush by. Snatching his hat, he brushed off like the wind. Goldsmith. 

BRUSHER:  One who, or that which, brushes. 

BRUSHINESS:  The quality of resembling a brush; brushlike condition; shagginess. Dr. H. More. 

BRUSHITE:  A white or gray crystalline mineral consisting of the acid phosphate of calcium.  BRUSH TURKEY Brush" tur`key. (Zoöl.)  A large, edible, gregarious bird of Australia (Talegalla Lathami) of the family Megapodidæ. Also applied to several allied species of New Guinea.  Note: The brush turkeys live in the "brush," and construct a common nest by collecting a large heap of decaying vegetable matter, which generates heat sufficient to hatch the numerous eggs (sometimes half a bushel) deposited in it by the females of the flock.  BRUSH WHEEL Brush" wheel`.  1. A wheel without teeth, used to turn a similar one by the friction of bristles or something brushlike or soft attached to the circumference.  2. A circular revolving brush used by turners, lapidaries, silversmiths, etc., for polishing. 

BRUSHY:  Resembling a brush; shaggy; rough. 

BRUSK:  Same as Brusque. 

BRUSQUE:  Rough and prompt in manner; blunt; abrupt; hluff; as, a brusque man; a brusque style. 

BRUSQUENESS:  Quality of being brusque; roughness joined with promptness; blutness. Brit. Quar. 

BRUSSELS:  A city of Belgium, giving its name to a kind of carpet, a kind of lace, etc. Brussels carpet, a kind of carpet made of worsted yarn fixed in a foundation web of strong linen thread. The worsted, which alone shows on the upper surface in drawn up in loops to form the pattern.  -- Brussels ground, a name given to the handmade ground of real Brussels lace. It is very costly because of the extreme fineness of the threads.  -- Brussels lace, an expensive kind of lace of several varieties, originally made in Brussels; as, Brussels point, Brussels ground, Brussels wire ground.  -- Brussels net, an imitation of Brussels ground, made by machinery.  -- Brussels point. See Point lace.  -- Brussels sprouts (Bot.), a plant of the Cabbage family, which produces, in the axils of the upright stem, numerous small green heads, or "sprouts," each a cabbage in miniature, of one or two inches in diameter; the thousand-headed cabbage.  -- Brussels wire ground, a ground for lace, made of silk, with meshes partly straight and partly arched. 

BRUSTLE:  A bristle. [Obs. or Prov.] Chaucer. 

BRUT:  To browse. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

BRUT:  See Birt. 

BRUTA:  See Edentata. 

BRUTALISM:  Brutish quality; brutality. 

BRUTALIZATION:  The act or process of making brutal; state of being brutalized. 

BRUTALIZE:  To make brutal; beasty; unfeeling; or inhuman. 

BRUTALIZE:  To become brutal, inhuman, barbarous, or coarse and beasty. [R.] He mixed . . . with his countrymen, brutalized with them in their habits and manners. Addison. 

BRUTALLY:  In a brutal manner; cruelly. 

BRUTE:  To report; to bruit. [Obs.] 

BRUTELY:  In a rude or violent manner. 

BRUTIFY:  To make like a brute; to make senseless, stupid, or unfeeling; to brutalize. Any man not quite brutified and void of sense. Barrow. 

BRUTING:  Browsing. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

BRUTISH:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a brute or brutes; of a cruel, gross, and stupid nature; coarse; unfeeling; unintelligent. O, let all provocation Take every brutish shape it can devise. Leigh Hunt. Man may . . . render himself brutish, but it is in vain that he would seek to take the rank and density of the brute. I. Taylor.  Syn.  -- Insensible; stupid; unfeeling; savage; cruel; brutal; barbarous; inhuman; ferocious; gross; carnal; sensual; bestial.  -- Bru"tish*ly, adv.  -- Bru"tish*ness, n. 

BRUTISM:  The nature or characteristic qualities or actions of a brute; extreme stupidity, or beastly vulgarity. 

BRYOLOGICAL:  Relating to bryology; as, bryological studies. 

BRYOLOGIST:  One versed in bryology. 

BRYOLOGY:  That part of botany which relates to mosses. 

BRYONIN:  A bitter principle obtained from the root of the bryony (Bryonia alba and B. dioica). It is a white, or slightly colored, substance, and is emetic and cathartic. 

BRYONY:  The common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genus Bryonia. The root of B. alba (rough or white bryony) and of B. dioica is a strong, irritating cathartic. Black bryony, a plant (Tamus communis) so named from its dark glossy leaves and black root; black bindweed. 

BRYOPHYTA:  See Cryptogamia. 

BRYOZOA:  A class of Molluscoidea, including minute animals which by budding form compound colonies; -- called also Polyzoa.  Note: They are often coralike in form and appearance, each small cell containing an individual zooid. Other species grow in delicate, flexible, branched forms, resembling moss, whence the name. Some are found in fresh water, but most are marine. The three principal divisions are Ectoprocta, Entoprocta, and Pterobranchia. See Cyclostoma, Chilostoma, and Phylactolema. 

BRYOZOAN:  Of or pertaining to the Bryozoa.  -- n.  One of the Bryozoa. 

BRYOZOUM:  An individual zooid of a bryozoan coralline, of which there may be two or more kinds in a single colony. The zooecia usually have a wreath of tentacles around the mouth, and a well developed stomach and intestinal canal; but these parts are lacking in the other zooids (Avicularia, Ooecia, etc.). 

BUANSUAH:  The wild dog of northern India (Cuon primævus), supposed by some to be an ancestral species of the domestic dog. 

BUAT:  A lantern; also, the moon. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

BUB:  Strong malt liquor. [Cant] Prior. 

BUB:  A young brother; a little boy; -- a familiar term of address of a small boy. 

BUB:  To throw out in bubbles; to bubble. [Obs.] Sackville. 

BUBALE:  A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis) of Egypt and the Desert of Sahara, supposed by some to be the fallow deer of the Bible. 

BUBALINE:  Resembling a buffalo. Bubaline antelope (Zoöl.), the bubale. 

BUBBLER:  To cheat; to deceive. She has bubbled him out of his youth. Addison. The great Locke, who was seldom outwitted by false sounds, was nevertheless bubbled here. Sterne. 

BUBBLER:  A fish of the Ohio river; -- so called from the noise it makes.  BUBBLE SHELL Bub"ble shell`. (Zoöl.)  A marine univalve shell of the genus Bulla and allied genera, belonging to the Tectibranchiata.  BUBBLING JOCK Bub"bling Jock` (Zoöl.)  The male wild turkey, the gobbler; -- so called in allusion to its notes. 

BUBBLY:  Abounding in bubbles; bubbling. Nash. 

BUBBY:  A woman's breast. [Low] 

BUBBY:  Bub; -- a term of familiar or affectionate address to a small boy. 

BUBO:  An inflammation, with enlargement, of a limphatic gland, esp. in the groin, as in syphilis. 

BUBONIC:  Of or pertaining to a bubo or buboes; characterized by buboes. 

BUBONOCELE:  An inguinal hernia; esp. that incomplete variety in which the hernial pouch descends only as far as the groin, forming a swelling there like a bubo. 

BUBUKLE:  A red pimple. [R.] Shak. 

BUCCAL:  Of or pertaining to the mouth or cheeks. 

BUCCAN:  A wooden frame or grid for roasting, smoking, or drying meat over fire.  2.  A place where meat is smoked.  3.  Buccaned meat. 

BUCCAN:  To expose (meat) in strips to fire and smoke upon a buccan. 

BUCCANEER:  A robber upon the sea; a pirate; -- a term applied especially to the piratical adventurers who made depredations on the Spaniards in America in the 17th and 18th centuries. [Written also bucanier.]  Note: Primarily, one who dries and smokes flesh or fish after the manner of the Indians. The name was first given to the French settlers in Hayti or Hispaniola, whose business was to hunt wild cattle and swine. 

BUCCANEER:  To act the part of a buccaneer; to live as a piratical adventurer or sea robber. 

BUCCANEERISH:  Like a buccaneer; piratical. 

BUCCINAL:  Shaped or sounding like a trumpet; trumpetlike. 

BUCCINATOR:  A muscle of the cheek; -- so called from its use in blowing wind instruments. 

BUCCINOID:  Resembling the genus Buccinum, or pertaining to the Buccinidæ, a family of marine univalve shells. See Whelk, and Prosobranchiata. 

BUCCINUM:  A genus of large univalve mollusks abundant in the arctic seas. It includes the common whelk (B. undatum). 

BUCENTAUR:  The state barge of Venice, used by the doge in the ceremony of espousing the Adriatic. 

BUCEPHALUS:  The celebrated war horse of Alexander the Great.  2.  Hence, any riding horse. [Jocose] Sir W. Scott. 

BUCEROS:  A genus of large perching birds; the hornbills. 

BUCHOLZITE:  Same as Fibrolite. 

BUCHU:  A South African shrub (Barosma) with small leaves that are dotted with oil dlands; also, the leaves themselves, which are used in medicine for diseases of the urinary organs, etc. Several species furnish the leaves. 

BUCK:  To break up or pulverize, as ores. 

BUCK:  To subject to a mode of punishment which consists in tying the wrists together, passing the arms over the bent knees, and putting a stick across the arms and in the angle formed by the knees.  2. To throw by bucking. See Buck, v. i., 2. The brute that he was riding had nearly bucked him out of the saddle. W. E. Norris. 

BUCK:  A frame on which firewood is sawed; a sawhorse; a sawbuck. Buck saw, a saw set in a frame and used for sawing wood on a sawhorse. 

BUCK:  The beech tree. [Scot.] Buck mast, the mast or fruit of the beech tree. Johnson.  BUCK-BASKET Buck"-bas`ket, n. Etym: [See 1st Buck.]  A basket in which clothes are carried to the wash. Shak.  BUCK BEAN Buck" bean`. (Bot.)  A plant (Menyanthes trifoliata) which grows in moist and boggy places, having racems of white or reddish flowers and intensely bitter leaves, sometimes used in medicine; marsh trefoil; -- called also bog bean. 

BUCKBOARD:  A four-wheeled vehicle, having a long elastic board or frame resting on the bolsters or axletrees, and a seat or seats placed transversely upon it; -- called also buck wagon. 

BUCKER:  A horse or mule that bucks. 

BUCKET:  One of the receptacles on the rim of a water wheel into which the water rushes, causing the wheel to revolve; also, a float of a paddle wheel.  4. The valved piston of a lifting pump. Fire bucket, a bucket for carrying water to put out fires.  -- To kick the bucket, to die. [Low]  BUCKET SHOP Buck"et shop`.  An office or a place where facilities are given for betting small sums on current prices of stocks, petroleum, etc. [Slang, U.S.] 

BUCKETY:  Paste used by weavers to dress their webs. Buchanan. 

BUCKEYE:  A name given to several American trees and shrubs of the same genus (Æsculus) as the horse chestnut. The Ohio buckeye, or Fetid buckeye, is Æsculus glabra.  -- Red buckeye is Æ. Pavia.  -- Small buckeye is Æ. paviflora.  -- Sweet buckeye, or Yellow buckeye, is Æ. flava.  2. A cant name for a native in Ohio. [U.S.] Buckeye State, Ohio; -- so called because buckeye trees abound there.  BUCK-EYED Buck"-eyed`, a.  Having bad or speckled eyes. "A buck-eyed horse." James White.  BUCK FEVER Buck fever.  Intense excitement at the sight of deer or other game, such as often unnerves a novice in hunting. [Colloq.] 

BUCKHOUND:  A hound for hunting deer. Master of the buckhounds, an officer in the royal household. [Eng.] 

BUCKIE:  A large spiral marine shell, esp. the common whelk. See Buccinum. [Scot.] Deil's buckie, a perverse, refractory youngster. [Slang] 

BUCKISH:  Dandified; foppish. 

BUCKLER:  A block of wood or plate of iron made to fit a hawse hole, or the circular opening in a half-port, to prevent water from entering when the vessel pitches. Blind buckler (Naut.), a solid buckler.  -- Buckler mustard (Bot.), a genus of plants (Biscutella) with small bright yellow flowers. The seed vessel on bursting resembles two bucklers or shields.  -- Buckler thorn, a plant with seed vessels shaped like a buckler. See Christ's thorn.  -- Riding buckler (Naut.), a buckler with a hole for the passage of a cable. 

BUCKLER:  To shield; to defend. [Obs.] Can Oxford, that did ever fence the right, Now buckler falsehood with a pedigree Shak.  BUCKLER-HEADED Buc"kler-head`ed, a.  Having a head like a buckler. 

BUCKLING:  Wavy; curling, as hair. Latham. 

BUCKRA:  A white man; -- a term used by negroes of the African coast, West Indies, etc. 

BUCKRA:  White; white man's; strong; good; as, buckra yam, a white yam. 

BUCKRAM:  A plant. See Ramson. Dr. Prior. 

BUCKRAM:  To strengthen with buckram; to make stiff. Cowper.  BUCK'S-HORN Buck's"-horn`, n. (Bot.)  A plant with leaves branched somewhat like a buck's horn (Plantago Coronopus); also, Lobelia coronopifolia. 

BUCKSHOT:  A coarse leaden shot, larger than swan shot, used in hunting deer and large game. 

BUCKSKIN:  Breeches made of buckskin. I have alluded to his buckskin. Thackeray. 

BUCKSTALL:  A toil or net to take deer. 

BUCKTHORN:  A genus (Rhamnus) of shrubs or trees. The shorter branches of some species terminate in long spines or thorns. See Rhamnus. Sea buckthorn, a plant of the genus Hippophaë. 

BUCKTOOTH:  Any tooth that juts out. When he laughed, two white buckteeth protruded. Thackeray. 

BUCKWHEAT:  A plant (Fagopyrum esculentum) of the Polygonum family, the seed of which is used for food.  2. The triangular seed used, when ground, for griddle cakes, etc. 

BUCOLIC:  Of or pertaining to the life and occupation of a shepherd; pastoral; rustic. 

BUCOLIC:  A pastoral poem, representing rural affairs, and the life, manners, and occupation of shepherds; as, the Bucolics of Theocritus and Virgil. Dryden. 

BUCOLICAL:  Bucolic. 

BUCRANIUM:  A sculptured ornament, representing an ox skull adorned with wreaths, etc. 

BUD:  A small protuberance on the stem or branches of a plant, containing the rudiments of future leaves, flowers, or stems; an undeveloped branch or flower.  2. (Biol.)  A small protuberance on certain low forms of animals and vegetables which develops into a new organism, either free or attached. See Hydra. Bud moth (Zoöl.), a lepidopterous insect of several species, which destroys the buds of fruit trees; esp. Tmetocera ocellana and Eccopsis malana on the apple tree. 

BUD:  To graft, as a plant with another or into another, by inserting a bud from the one into an opening in the bark of the other, in order to raise, upon the budded stock, fruit different from that which it would naturally bear. The apricot and the nectarine may be, and usually are, budded upon the peach; the plum and the peach are budded on each other. Farm. Dict. 

BUDDHA:  The title of an incarnation of self-abnegation, virtue, and wisdom, or a deified religious teacher of the Buddhists, esp. Gautama Siddartha or Sakya Sinha (or Muni), the founder of Buddhism. 

BUDDHISM:  The religion based upon the doctrine originally taught by the Hindoo sage Gautama Siddartha, surnamed Buddha, "the awakened or enlightened," in the sixth century b.c., and adopted as a religion by the greater part of the inhabitants of Central and Eastern Asia and the Indian Islands. Buddha's teaching is believed to have been atheistic; yet it was characterized by elevated humanity and morality. It presents release from existence (a beatific enfranchisement, Nirvâna) as the greatest good. Buddhists believe in transmigration of souls through all phases and forms of life. Their number was estimated in 1881 at 470,000,000. 

BUDDHIST:  One who accepts the teachings of Buddhism. 

BUDDHIST:  Of or pertaining to Buddha, Buddhism, or the Buddhists. 

BUDDHISTIC:  Same as Buddhist, a. 

BUDDING:  A process of asexual reproduction, in which a new organism or cell is formed by a protrusion of a portion of the animal or vegetable organism, the bud thus formed sometimes remaining attached to the parent stalk or cell, at other times becoming free; gemmation. See Hydroidea.  3. The act or process of ingrafting one kind of plant upon another stock by inserting a bud under the bark. 

BUDDLE:  An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in which stamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of rynning water so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions. 

BUDDLE:  To wash ore in a buddle.  BUDE BURNER Bude" burn`er. Etym: [See Bude light.]  A burner consisting of two or more concentric Argand burners (the inner rising above the outer) and a central tube by which oxygen gas or common air is supplied.  BUDE LIGHT Bude" light`. Etym: [From Bude, in Cornwall, the residence of Sir G.Gurney, the inventor.]  A light in which high illuminating power is obtained by introducing a jet of oxygen gas or of common air into the center of a flame fed with coal gas or with oil. 

BUDGE:  To move off; to stir; to walk away. I'll not budge an inch, boy. Shak. The mouse ne'er shunned the cat as they did budge From rascals worse than they. Shak. 

BUDGE:  Brisk; stirring; jocund. [Obs.] South. 

BUDGE:  A kind of fur prepared from lambskin dressed with the wool on; -- used formerly as an edging and ornament, esp. of scholastic habits. 

BUDGENESS:  Sternness; severity. [Obs.] A Sara for goodness, a great Bellona for budgeness. Stanyhurst. 

BUDGER:  One who budges. Shak. 

BUDGEROW:  A large and commodious, but generally cumbrous and sluggish boat, used for journeys on the Ganges. 

BUDGY:  Consisting of fur. [Obs.] 

BUDLET:  A little bud springing from a parent bud. We have a criterion to distinguish one bud from another, or the parent bud from the numerous budlets which are its offspring. E. Darwin. 

BUFF:  The grayish viscid substance constituting the buffy coat. See Buffy coat, under Buffy, a.  5. (Mech.)  A wheel covered with buff leather, and used in polishing cutlery, spoons, etc.  6. The bare skin; as, to strip to the buff. [Colloq.] To be in buff is equivalent to being naked. Wright. 

BUFF:  To polish with a buff. See Buff, n., 5. 

BUFF:  To strike. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

BUFF:  A buffet; a blow; -- obsolete except in the phrase "Blindman's buff." Nathless so sore a buff to him it lent That made him reel. Spenser. 

BUFF:  Firm; sturdy. And for the good old cause stood buff, 'Gainst many a bitter kick and cuff. Hudibras. 

BUFFA:  The comic actress in an opera.  -- a.  Comic, farcical. Aria buffa, a droll or comic air.  -- Opera buffa, a comic opera. See Opera bouffe. 

BUFFALO:  A species of the genus Bos or Bubalus (B. bubalus), originally from India, but now found in most of the warmer countries of the eastern continent. It is larger and less docile than the common ox, and is fond of marshy places and rivers.  2. (Zoöl.)  A very large and savage species of the same genus (B. Caffer) found in South Africa; -- called also Cape buffalo.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any species of wild ox.  4. (Zoöl.)  The bison of North America.  5. A buffalo robe. See Buffalo robe, below.  6. (Zoöl.)  The buffalo fish. See Buffalo fish, below. Buffalo berry (Bot.), a shrub of the Upper Missouri (Sherherdia argentea) with acid edible red berries.  -- Buffalo bird (Zoöl.), an African bird of the genus Buphaga, of two species. These birds perch upon buffaloes and cattle, in search of parasites.  -- Buffalo bug, the carpet beetle. See under Carpet.  -- Buffalo chips, dry dung of the buffalo, or bison, used for fuel. [U.S.] -- Buffalo clover (Bot.), a kind of clover (Trifolium reflexum and T.soloniferum) found in the ancient grazing grounds of the American bison.  -- Buffalo cod (Zoöl.), a large, edible, marine fish (Ophiodon elongatus) of the northern Pacific coast; -- called also blue cod, and cultus cod.  -- Buffalo fish (Zoöl.), one of several large fresh-water fishes of the family Catostomidæ, of the Mississippi valley. The red-mouthed or brown (Ictiobus bubalus), the big-mouthed or black (Bubalichthys urus), and the small-mouthed (B. altus), are among the more important species used as food.  -- Buffalo fly, or Buffalo gnat (Zoöl.), a small dipterous insect of the genus Simulium, allied to the black fly of the North. It is often extremely abundant in the lower part of the Mississippi valley and does great injury to domestic animals, often killing large numbers of cattle and horses. In Europe the Columbatz fly is a species with similar habits.  -- Buffalo grass (Bot.), a species of short, sweet grass (Buchloë dactyloides), from two to four inches high, covering the prairies on which the buffaloes, or bisons, feed. [U.S.] -- Buffalo nut (Bot.), the oily and drupelike fruit of an American shrub (Pyrularia oleifera); also, the shrub itself; oilnut.  -- Buffalo robe, the skin of the bison of North America, prepared with the hair on; -- much used as a lap robe in sleighs.  BUFFEL DUCK Buf"fel duck. Etym: [See Buffalo.] (Zoöl.)  A small duck (Charitonetta albeola); the spirit duck, or butterball. The head of the male is covered with numerous elongated feathers, and thus appears large. Called also bufflehead. 

BUFFERHEAD:  The head of a buffer, which recieves the concussion, in railroad carriages. 

BUFFET:  To deaden the sound of (bells) by muffling the clapper. 

BUFFETER:  One who buffets; a boxer. Jonson. 

BUFFIN:  A sort of coarse stuff; as, buffin gowns. [Obs.]  BUFFING APPARATUS Buff"ing ap`pa*ra"tus.  See Buffer, 1. 

BUFFLE:  The buffalo. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 

BUFFLE:  To puzzle; to be at a loss. [Obs.] Swift. 

BUFFLEHEAD:  The buffel duck. See Buffel duck.  BUFFLE-HEADED Buf"fle-head`ed, a.  Having a large head, like a buffalo; dull; stupid; blundering. [Obs.] So fell this buffle-headed giant. Gayton. 

BUFFO:  The comic actor in an opera. 

BUFFOON:  A man who makes a practice of amusing others by low tricks, antic gestures, etc.; a droll; a mimic; a harlequin; a clown; a merry-andrew. 

BUFFOON:  Characteristic of, or like, a buffoon. "Buffoon stories." Macaulay. To divert the audience with buffoon postures and antic dances. Melmoth. 

BUFFOON:  To act the part of a buffoon. [R.] 

BUFFOON:  To treat with buffoonery. Glanvill. 

BUFFOONERY:  The arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculous pranks, vulgar tricks and postures. Nor that it will ever constitute a wit to conclude a tart piece of buffoonery with a "What makes you blush" Spectator. 

BUFFOONISH:  Like a buffoon; consisting in low jests or gestures. Blair. 

BUFFOONISM:  The practices of a buffoon; buffoonery. 

BUFFOONLY:  Low; vulgar. [R.] Apish tricks and buffoonly discourse. Goodman. 

BUFFY:  Resembling, or characterized by, buff. Buffy coat, the coagulated plasma of blood when the red corpuscles have so settled out that the coagulum appears nearly colorless. This is common in diseased conditions where the corpuscles run together more rapidly and in denser masses than usual. Huxley. 

BUFO:  A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads. 

BUFONITE:  An old name for a fossil consisting of the petrified teeth and palatal bones of fishes belonging to the family of Pycnodonts (thick teeth), whose remains occur in the oölite and chalk formations; toadstone; -- so named from a notion that it was originally formed in the head of a toad. 

BUG:  A general name applied to various insects belonging to the Hemiptera; as, the squash bug; the chinch bug, etc.  3. (Zoöl.)  An insect of the genus Cimex, especially the bedbug (C. lectularius). See Bedbug.  4. (Zoöl.)  One of various species of Coleoptera; as, the ladybug; potato bug, etc.; loosely, any beetle.  5. (Zoöl.)  One of certain kinds of Crustacea; as, the sow bug; pill bug; bait bug; salve bug, etc.  Note: According to present popular usage in England, and among housekeepers in America, bug, when not joined with some qualifying word, is used specifically for bedbug. As a general term it is used very loosely in America, and was formerly used still more loosely in England. "God's rare workmanship in the ant, the poorest bug that creeps." Rogers (Naaman). "This bug with gilded wings." Pope. Bait bug. See under Bait.  -- Bug word, swaggering or threatening language. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  BUGABOO; BUGBEAR Bug`a*boo", Bug"bear`, n. Etym: [See Bug.]  Something frightful, as a specter; anything imaginary that causes needless fright; something used to excite needless fear; also, something really dangerous, used to frighten children, etc. "Bugaboos to fright ye." Lloyd. But, to the world no bugbear is so great As want of figure and a small estate. Pope. The bugaboo of the liberals is the church pray. S. B. Griffin. The great bugaboo of the birds is the owl. J. Burroughs.  Syn.  -- Hobgoblin; goblin; specter; ogre; scarecrow. 

BUGBANE:  A perennial white-flowered herb of the order Ranunculaceæ and genus Cimiciguga; bugwort. There are several species. 

BUGBEAR:  Same as Bugaboo.  -- a.  Causing needless fright. Locke. 

BUGBEAR:  To alarm with idle phantoms. 

BUGFISH:  The menhaden. [U.S.] 

BUGGERY:  Unnatural sexual intercourse; sodomy. 

BUGGINESS:  The state of being infested with bugs. 

BUGGY:  Infested or abounding with bugs. 

BUGLE:  A sort of wild ox; a buffalo. E. Phillips. 

BUGLE:  A copper instrument of the horn quality of tone, shorter and more conical that the trumpet, sometimes keyed; formerly much used in military bands, very rarely in the orchestra; now superseded by the cornet; -- called also the Kent bugle. 

BUGLE:  An elingated glass bead, of various colors, though commonly black. 

BUGLE:  Jet black. "Bugle eyeballs." Shak. 

BUGLE:  A plant of the genus Ajuga of the Mint family, a native of the Old World. Yellow bugle, the Ajuga chamæpitys. 

BUGLED:  Ornamented with bugles.  BUGLE HORN Bu"gle horn`.  1. A bugle. One blast upon his bugle horn Were worth a thousand men. Sir W. Scott.  2. A drinking vessel made of horn. [Obs.] And drinketh of his bugle horn the wine. Chaucer. 

BUGLER:  One who plays on a bugle. 

BUGLEWEED:  A plant of the Mint family and genus Lycopus; esp. L. Virginicus, which has mild narcotic and astringent properties, and is sometimes used as a remedy for hemorrhage. 

BUGLOSS:  A plant of the genus Anchusa, and especially the A. officinalis, sometimes called alkanet; oxtongue. Small wild bugloss, the Asperugo procumbens and the Lycopsis arvensis.  -- Viper's bugloss, a species of Echium. 

BUGWORT:  Bugbane.  BUHL; BUHLWORK Buhl, Buhl"work, n. Etym: [From A.Ch.Boule, a French carver in wood.]  Decorative woodwork in which tortoise shell, yellow metal, white metal, etc., are inlaid, forming scrolls, cartouches, etc. [Written also boule, boulework.] 

BUHLBUHL:  See Bulbul. 

BUHRSTONE:  A cellular, flinty rock, used for mill stones. [Written also burrstone.] 

BUILD:  Form or mode of construction; general figure; make; as, the build of a ship. 

BUILDER:  One who builds; one whose occupation is to build, as a carpenter, a shipwright, or a mason. In the practice of civil architecture, the builder comes between the architect who designs the work and the artisans who execute it. Eng. Cyc. 

BUILT:  Shape; build; form of structure; as, the built of a ship. [Obs.] Dryden. 

BUILT:  Formed; shaped; constructed; made; -- often used in composition and preceded by the word denoting the form; as, frigate-built, clipper-built, etc. Like the generality of Genoese countrywomen, strongly built. Landor.  BUKE MUSLIN Buke" mus"lin.  See Book muslin. 

BUKSHISH:  See Backsheesh. 

BULAU:  An East Indian insectivorous mammal (Gymnura Rafflesii), somewhat like a rat in appearance, but allied to the hedgehog. 

BULB:  A spheroidal body growing from a plant either above or below the ground (usually below), which is strictly a bud, consisting of a cluster of partially developed leaves, and producing, as it grows, a stem above, and roots below, as in the onion, tulip, etc. It differs from a corm in not being solid.  2. (Anat.)  A name given to some parts that resemble in shape certain bulbous roots; as, the bulb of the aorta. Bulb of the eye, the eyeball.  -- Bulb of a hair, the "root," or part whence the hair originates.  -- Bulb of the spinal cord, the medulla oblongata, often called simply bulb.  -- Bulb of a tooth, the vascular and nervous papilla contained in the cavity of the tooth.  3. An expansion or protuberance on a stem or tube, as the bulb of a thermometer, which may be of any form, as spherical, cylindrical, curved, etc. Tomlinson. 

BULB:  To take the shape of a bulb; to swell. 

BULBACEOUS:  Bulbous. Jonson. 

BULBAR:  Of or pertaining to bulb; especially, in medicine, pertaining to the bulb of the spinal cord, or medulla oblongata; as, bulbar paralysis. 

BULBED:  Having a bulb; round-headed. 

BULBEL:  A separable bulb formed on some flowering plants. 

BULBIFEROUS:  Producing bulbs. 

BULBIL:  A small or secondary bulb; hence, now almost exclusively: An aërial bulb or deciduous bud, produced in the leaf axils, as in the tiger lily, or relpacing the flowers, as in some onions, and capable, when separated, of propagating the plant; -- called also bulblet and brood bud.  2.  (Anat.) A small hollow bulb, such as an enlargement in a small vessel or tube. 

BULBLET:  A small bulb, either produced on a larger bulb, or on some aërial part of a plant, as in the axils of leaves in the tiger lily, or replacing the flowers in some kinds of onion. 

BULBOSE:  Bulbous.  BULBO-TUBER Bul"bo-tu`ber, n. Etym: [Bulb,n.+ tuber.] (Bot.)  A corm. 

BULBOUS:  Having or containing bulbs, or a bulb; growing from bulbs; bulblike in shape or structure. 

BULBUL:  The Persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus). The name is also applied to several other Asiatic singing birds, of the family Timaliidæ. The green bulbuls belong to the Chloropsis and allied genera. [Written also buhlbuhl.] 

BULBULE:  A small bulb; a bulblet. 

BULCHIN:  A little bull. 

BULGE:  The bilge of a vessel. See Bilge, 2. Bulge ways. (Naut.) See Bilge ways. 

BULGER:  A driver or a brassy with a convex face. 

BULGY:  Bulged; bulging; bending, or tending to bend, outward. [Colloq.]  BULIMIA; BULIMY Bu*lim"i*a, Bu"li*my, n. Etym: [NL. bulimia, fr. Gr. boulimie.] (Med.)  A disease in which there is a perpetual and insatiable appetite for food; a diseased and voracious appetite. 

BULIMUS:  A genus of land snails having an elongated spiral shell, often of large size. The species are numerous ingabundant in tropical America. 

BULK:  The cargo of a vessel when stowed.  4. The body. [Obs.] Shak. My liver leaped within my bulk. Turbervile. Barrel bulk. See under Barrel.  -- To break bulk (Naut.), to begin to unload or more the cargo.  -- In bulk, in a mass; loose; not inclosed in separate packages or divided into separate parts; in such shape that any desired quantity may be taken or sold.  -- Laden in bulk, Stowed in bulk, having the cargo loose in the hold or not inclosed in boxes, bales, or casks.  -- Sale by bulk, a sale of goods as they are, without weight or measure.  Syn.  -- Size; magnitude; dimension; volume; bigness; largeness; massiveness. 

BULK:  To appear or seem to be, as to bulk or extent; to swell. The fame of Warburton possibly bulked larger for the moment. Leslie Stephen. 

BULK:  A projecting part of a building. [Obs.] Here, stand behind this bulk. Shak. 

BULKER:  A person employed to ascertain the bulk or size of goods, in order to fix the amount of freight or dues payable on them. 

BULKHEAD:  A partition in a vessel, to separate apartments on the same deck.  2. A structure of wood or stone, to resist the pressure of earth or water; a partition wall or structure, as in a mine; the limiting wall along a water front. Bulked line, a line beyond which a wharf must not project; -- usually, the harbor line. 

BULKINESS:  Greatness in bulk; size. 

BULKY:  Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick; massive; as, bulky volumes. A bulky digest of the revenue laws. Hawthorne. 

BULL:  The male of any species of cattle (Bovidæ); hence, the male of any large quadruped, as the elephant; also, the male of the whale.  Note: The wild bull of the Old Testament is thought to be the oryx, a large species of antelope.  2. One who, or that which, resembles a bull in character or action. Ps. xxii. 12.  3. (Astron.) (a) Taurus, the second of the twelve signs of the zodiac. (b) A constellation of the zodiac between Aries and Gemini. It contains the Pleiades. At last from Aries rolls the bounteous sun, And the bright Bull receives him. Thomson.  4. (Stock Exchange)  One who operates in expectation of a rise in the price of stocks, or in order to effect such a rise. See 4th Bear, n., 5. Bull baiting, the practice of baiting bulls, or rendering them furious, as by setting dogs to attack them.  -- John Bull, a humorous name for the English, collectively; also, an Englishman. "Good-looking young John Bull." W. D.Howells.  -- To take the bull by the horns, to grapple with a difficulty instead of avoiding it. 

BULL:  Of or pertaining to a bull; resembling a bull; male; large; fierce. Bull bat (Zoöl.), the night hawk; -- so called from the loud noise it makes while feeding on the wing, in the evening.  -- Bull calf. (a) A stupid fellow.  -- Bull mackerel (Zoöl.), the chub mackerel.  -- Bull pump (Mining), a direct single-acting pumping engine, in which the steam cylinder is placed above the pump.  -- Bull snake (Zoöl.), the pine snake of the United States.  -- Bull stag, a castrated bull. See Stag.  -- Bull wheel, a wheel, or drum, on which a rope is wound for lifting heavy articles, as logs, the tools in well boring, etc. 

BULL:  To be in heat; to manifest sexual desire as cows do. [Colloq.] 

BULL:  To endeavor to raise the market price of; as, to bull railroad bonds; to bull stocks; to bull Lake Shore; to endeavor to raise prices in; as, to bull the market. See 1st Bull, n., 4. 

BULLA:  A bleb; a vesicle, or an elevation of the cuticle, containing a transparent watery fluid.  2. (Anat.)  The ovoid prominence below the opening of the ear in the skulls of many animals; as, the tympanic or auditory bulla.  3. A leaden seal for a document; esp. the round leaden seal attached to the papal bulls, which has on one side a representation of St. Peter and St. Paul, and on the other the name of the pope who uses it.  4. (Zoöl.)  A genus of marine shells. See Bubble shell. 

BULLANTIC:  Pertaining to, or used in, papal bulls. Fry. Bullantic letters, Gothic letters used in papal bulls. 

BULLARY:  A collection of papal bulls. 

BULLARY:  A place for boiling or preparating salt; a boilery. Crabb. And certain salt fats or bullaries. Bills in Chancery. 

BULLATE:  Appearing as if blistered; inflated; puckered. Bullate leaf (Bot.), a leaf, the membranous part of which rises between the veins puckered elevations convex on one side and concave on the other. 

BULLBEGGAR:  Something used or suggested to produce terror, as in children or persons of weak mind; a bugbear. And being an ill-looked fellow, he has a pension from the church wardens for being bullbeggar to all the forward children in the parish. Mountfort (1691).  BULL BRIER Bull" bri`er. (Bot.)  A species of Smilax (S. Pseudo-China) growing from New Jersey to the Gulf of Mexico, which has very large tuberous and farinaceous rootstocks, formerly used by the Indians for a sort of bread, and by the negroes as an ingredient in making beer; -- called also bamboo brier and China brier. 

BULLCOMBER:  A scaraboid beetle; esp. the Typhæus vulgaris of Europe. 

BULLDOG:  A variety of dog, of remarkable ferocity, courage, and tenacity of grip; -- so named, probably, from being formerly employed in baiting bulls.  2. (Metal.)  A refractory material used as a furnace lining, obtained by calcining the cinder or slag from the puddling furnace of a rolling mill. 

BULLDOG:  Characteristic of, or like, a bulldog; stubborn; as, bulldog courage; bulldog tenacity. Bulldog bat (zo'94l.), a bat of the genus Nyctinomus; -- so called from the shape of its face. 

BULLDOZE:  To intimidate; to restrain or coerce by intimidation or violence; -- used originally of the intimidation of negro voters, in Louisiana. [Slang, U.S.] 

BULLDOZER:  One who bulldozes. [Slang] 

BULLED:  Swollen. [Obs.]  BULLEN-BULLEN Bul"len-bul"len, n. Etym: [Native Australian name, from its cry.] (Zoöl.)  The lyre bird.  BULLEN-NAIL Bul"len-nail`, n. Etym: [Bull large, having a large head + nail.]  A nail with a round head and short shank, tinned and lacquered. 

BULLETIN:  Capable of resisting the force of a bullet. Bullet tree. See Bully tree.  -- Bullet wood, the wood of the bullet tree. 

BULLFACED:  Having a large face. 

BULLFEAST:  See Bullfight. [Obs.]  BULLFIGHT; BULLFIGHTING Bull"fight`, Bull"fight`ing, n.  A barbarous sport, of great antiquity, in which men torment, and fight with, a bull or bulls in an arena, for public amusement, -- still popular in Spain.  -- Bull"fight`er (, n. 

BULLFINCH:  A bird of the genus Pyrrhula and other related genera, especially the P. vulgaris or rubicilla, a bird of Europe allied to the grosbeak, having the breast, cheeks, and neck, red.  Note: As a cage bird it is highly valued for its remarkable power of learning to whistle correctly various musical airs. Crimson-fronted bullfinch. (Zoöl.) See Burion.  -- Pine bullfinch, the pine finch.  BULLFIST; BULLFICE Bull"fist, Bull"fice, n. Etym: [Cf. G. bofist, AS. wulfes fist puffball, E. fizz, foist.] (Bot.)  A kind of fungus. See Puffball.  BULL FLY; BULLFLY Bull" fly` or Bull"fly`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any large fly troublesome to cattle, as the gadflies and breeze flies. 

BULLFROG:  A very large species of frog (Rana Catesbiana), found in North America; -- so named from its loud bellowing in spring. 

BULLHEAD:  A small black water insect. E. Phillips. Bullhead whiting (Zoöl.), the kingfish of Florida (Menticirrus alburnus). 

BULLHEADED:  Having a head like that of a bull. Fig.: Headstrong; obstinate; dogged. 

BULLIONIST:  An advocate for a metallic currency, or a paper currency always convertible into gold. 

BULLIRAG:  To intimidate by bullying; to rally contemptuously; to badger. [Low] 

BULLISH:  Partaking of the nature of a bull, or a blunder. Let me inform you, a toothless satire is as improper as a toothed sleek stone, and as bullish. Milton. 

BULLIST:  A writer or drawer up of papal bulls. [R.] Harmar. 

BULLITION:  The action of boiling; boiling. [Obs.] See Ebullition. Bacon.  BULL MOOSE Bull Moose. (U. S. Politics)  (a) A follower of Theodore Roosevelt in the presidential campaign of 1912; -- a sense said to have originated from a remark made by Roosevelt on a certain occasion that he felt "like a bull moose." [Cant]  (b) The figure of a bull moose used as the party symbol of the Progressive party in the presidential campaign of 1912. -- Bull Mooser. [Cant]  BULL-NECKED Bull"-necked`, a.  Having a short and thick neck like that of a bull. Sir W. Scott. 

BULLOCK:  To bully. [Obs.] She shan't think to bullock and domineer over me. Foote.  BULLOCK'S-EYE Bul"lock's-eye`, n.  See Bull's-eye, 3. 

BULLON:  A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis). 

BULLPOUT:  See Bullhead, 1 (b).  BULL-ROARER Bull"-roar`er, n.  A contrivance consisting of a slat of wood tied to the end of a thong or string, with which the slat is whirled so as to cause an intermittent roaring noise. It is used as a toy, and among some races in certain religious rites.  BULL'S-EYE Bull's"-eye`, n.  1. (Naut.)  A small circular or oval wooden block without sheaves, having a groove around it and a hole through it, used for connecting rigging.  2. A small round cloud, with a ruddy center, supposed by sailors to portend a storm.  3. A small thick disk of glass inserted in a deck, roof, floor, ship's side, etc., to let in light.  4. A circular or oval opening for air or light.  5. A lantern, with a thick glass lens on one side for concentrating the light on any object; also, the lens itself. Dickens.  6. (Astron.)  Aldebaran, a bright star in the eye of Taurus or the Bull.  7. (Archery & Gun.)  The center of a target.  8. A thick knob or protuberance left on glass by the end of the pipe through which it was blown.  9. A small and thick old-fashioned watch. [Colloq.]  BULL'S-NOSE Bull's"-nose`, n. (Arch.)  An external angle when obtuse or rounded.  BULL TERRIER Bull" ter"ri*er. (Zoöl.)  A breed of dogs obtained by crossing the bulldog and the terrier.  BULL TROUT Bull" trout`. (Zoöl.) (a) In England, a large salmon trout of several species, as Salmo trutta and S. Cambricus, which ascend rivers; -- called also sea trout. (b) Salvelinus malma of California and Oregon; -- called also Dolly Varden trout and red-spotted trout. (c) The huso or salmon of the Danube. 

BULLWEED:  Knapweed. Prior. 

BULLWORT:  See Bishop's-weed. 

BULLY:  To intimidate with threats and by an overbearing, swaggering demeanor; to act the part of a bully toward. For the last fortnight there have been prodigious shoals of volunteers gone over to bully the French, upon hearing the peace was just signing. Tatler.  Syn.  -- To bluster; swagger; hector; domineer. 

BULLY:  To act as a bully.  BULLY; BULLY BEEF Bul"ly, n., Bul"ly beef`. [F. bouilli boiled meat, fr. bouillir to boil. See Boil, v. The word bouilli was formerly commonly used on the labels of canned beef.]  Pickled or canned beef. 

BULLYRAG:  Same as Bullirag. 

BULLYROCK:  A bully. [Slang Obs.] Shak.  BULLY TREE Bul"ly tree`. (Bot.)  The name of several West Indian trees of the order Sapotaceæ, as Dipholis nigra and species of Sapota and Mimusops. Most of them yield a substance closely resembling gutta-percha. 

BULRUSH:  A kind of large rush, growing in wet land or in water.  Note: The name bulrush is applied in England especially to the cat- tail (Typha latifolia and T. angustifolia) and to the lake club-rush (Scirpus lacustris); in America, to the Juncus effusus, and also to species of Scirpus or club-rush. 

BULSE:  A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc. [India] Macaulay. 

BULTEL:  A bolter or bolting cloth; also, bran. [Obs.] 

BULTI:  Same as Bolty. 

BULTONG:  Biltong. 

BULTOW:  A trawl; a boulter; the mod 

BULWARK:  A rampart; a fortification; a bastion or outwork.  2. That which secures against an enemy, or defends from attack; any means of defense or protection. The royal navy of England hath ever been its greatest defense, . . . the floating bulwark of our island. Blackstone.  3. pl. (Naut.)  The sides of a ship above the upper deck.  Syn.  -- See Rampart. 

BULWARK:  To fortify with, or as with, a rampart or wall; to secure by fortification; to protect. Of some proud city, bulwarked round and armed With rising towers. Glover. 

BUM:  The buttock. [Low] Shak. 

BUM:  To make murmuring or humming sound. Jamieson. 

BUM:  A humming noise. Halliwell. 

BUMBAILIFF:  See Bound bailiff, under Bound, a. 

BUMBARD:  See Bombard. [Obs.] 

BUMBARGE:  See Bumboat. Carlyle. 

BUMBAST:  See Bombast. [Obs.] 

BUMBELO:  A glass used in subliming camphor. [Spelled also bombolo and bumbolo.] 

BUMBLE:  The bittern. [Local, Eng.] 

BUMBLE:  To make a hollow or humming noise, like that of a bumblebee; to cry as a bittern. As a bittern bumbleth in the mire. Chaucer. 

BUMBLEBEE:  A large bee of the genus Bombus, sometimes called humblebee; -- so named from its sound.  Note: There are many species. All gather honey, and store it in the empty cocoons after the young have come out. 

BUMBLEPUPPY:  The old game of nineholes.  2.  (Card Playing) Whist played in an unscientific way. 

BUMBOAT:  A clumsy boat, used for conveying provisions, fruit, etc., for sale, to vessels lying in port or off shore. 

BUMKIN:  A projecting beam or boom; as: (a) One projecting from each bow of a vessel, to haul the fore tack to, called a tack bumpkin. (b) Onr from each quarter, for the main-brace blocks, and called brace bumpkin. (c) A small outrigger over the stern of a boat, to extend the mizzen. [Written also boomkin.] 

BUMMALO:  A small marine Asiatic fish (Saurus ophidon) used in India as a relish; -- called also Bombay duck. 

BUMMER:  An idle, worthless fellow, who is without any visible means of support; a dissipated sponger. [Slang, U.S.] 

BUMMERY:  See Bottomery. [Obs.] There was a scivener of Wapping brought to hearing for relief against a bummery bond. R. North. 

BUMP:  To strike, as with or against anything large or solid; to thump; as, to bump the head against a wall. 

BUMP:  To come in violent contact with something; to thump. "Bumping and jumping." Southey. 

BUMP:  One of the protuberances on the cranium which are associated with distinct faculties or affections of the mind; as, the bump of "veneration;" the bump of "acquisitiveness." [Colloq.]  4. The act of striking the stern of the boat in advance with the prow of the boat following. [Eng.] 

BUMP:  To make a loud, heavy, or hollow noise, as the bittern; to boom. As a bittern bumps within a reed. Dryden. 

BUMP:  The noise made by the bittern. 

BUMPKIN:  An awkward, heavy country fellow; a clown; a country lout. "Bashful country bumpkins." W. Irving. 

BUMPTIOUS:  Self-conceited; forward; pushing. [Colloq.] Halliwell. 

BUMPTIOUSNESS:  Conceitedness. [Colloq.]  BUN; BUNN Bun, Bunn, n. Etym: [Scot. bun, bunn, OE. bunne, bonne; fr. Celtic; cf. Ir. bunna, Gael. bonnach, or OF. bugne tumor, Prov. F. bugne a kind of pancake; akin to OHG. bungo bulb, MHG. bunge, Prov. E. bung heap, cluster, bunny a small swelling.]  A slightly sweetened raised cake or bisquit with a glazing of sugar and milk on the top crust. 

BUNCH:  A small isolated mass of ore, as distinguished from a continuous vein. Page. 

BUNCH:  To swell out into a bunch or protuberance; to be protuberant or round. Bunching out into a large round knob at one end. Woodward. 

BUNCH:  To form into a bunch or bunches.  BUNCH-BACKED Bunch"-backed`, a.  Having a bunch on the back; crooked. "Bunch-backed toad." Shak. 

BUNCHBERRY:  The dwarf cornel (Cornus Canadensis), which bears a dense cluster of bright red, edible berries.  BUNCH GRASS Bunch" grass`. (Bot.)  A grass growing in bunches and affording pasture. In California, Atropis tenuifolia, Festuca scabrella, and several kinds of Stipa are favorite bunch grasses. In Utah, Eriocoma cuspidata is a good bunch grass. 

BUNCHINESS:  The quality or condition of being bunchy; knobbiness. 

BUNCHY:  Yielding irregularly; sometimes rich, sometimes poor; as, a bunchy mine. Page.  BUNCOMBE; BUNKUM Bun"combe, Bun"kum, n. Etym: [Buncombe a country of North Carolina.]  Speech-making for the gratification of constituents, or to gain public applause; flattering talk for a selfish purpose; anything said for mere show. [Cant or Slang, U.S.] All that flourish about right of search was bunkum -- all that brag about hanging your Canada sheriff was bunkum . . . slavery speeches are all bunkum. Haliburton. To speak for Buncombe, to speak for mere show, or popularly.  Note: "The phrase originated near the close of the debate on the famous 'Missouri Question,' in the 16th Congress. It was then used by Felix Walker -- a naïve old mountaineer, who resided at Waynesville, in Haywood, the most western country of North Carolina, near the border of the adjacent country of Buncombe, which formed part of his district. The old man rose to speak, while the house was impatiently calling for the 'Question,' and several members gathered round him, begging him to desist. He preserved, however, for a while, declaring that the people of his district expected it, and that he was bound to 'make a speech for Buncombe.'" W. Darlington. 

BUND:  League; confederacy; esp. the confederation of German states. 

BUND:  An embankment against inundation. [India] S. Wells Williams. 

BUNDER:  A boat or raft used in the East Indies in the landing of passengers and goods. 

BUNDESRATH:  The federal council of the German Empire. In the Bundesrath and the Reichstag are vested the legislative functions. The federal council of Switzerland is also so called.  Note: The Bundesrath of the German empire is presided over by a chancellor, and is composed of sixty-two members, who represent the different states of the empire, being appointed for each session by their respective governments. By this united congress, the highest tribunal of Switzerland, -- the Bundesrath -- is chosen, and the head of this is a president. J. P. Peters (Trans. Müller's Pol. Hist. ).  BUNDES-VERSAMMLUNG Bun"des-Ver*samm"lung, n. [G.; bund confederacy + versammlung assembly.]  See Legislature, Switzerland. 

BUNDLE:  A number of things bound together, as by a cord or envelope, into a mass or package convenient for handling or conveyance; a loose package; a roll; as, a bundle of straw or of paper; a bundle of old clothes. The fable of the rods, which, when united in a bundle, no strength could bend. Goldsmith. Bundle pillar (Arch.), a column or pier, with others of small dimensions attached to it. Weale. 

BUNDOBUST:  System; discipline. [India]  He has more bundobust than most men. Kipling. 

BUNG:  To stop, as the orifice in the bilge of a cask, with a bung; to close; -- with up. To bung up, to use up, as by bruising or over exertion; to exhaust or incapacitate for action. [Low] He had bunged up his mouth that he should not have spoken these three years. Shelton (Trans. Don Quixote). 

BUNGALOW:  A thatched or tiled house or cottage, of a single story, usually surrounded by a veranda. [India] 

BUNGARUM:  A venomous snake of India, of the genus Bungarus, allied to the cobras, but without a hood. 

BUNGHOLE:  See Bung, n., 2. Shak. 

BUNGLE:  To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner. 

BUNGLE:  To make or mend clumsily; to manage awkwardly; to botch; -- sometimes with up. I always had an idea that it would be bungled. Byron. 

BUNGLE:  A clumsy or awkward performance; a botch; a gross blunder. Those errors and bungles which are committed. Cudworth. 

BUNGLER:  A clumsy, awkward workman; one who bungles. If to be a dunce or a bungler in any profession be shameful, how much more ignominious and infamous to a scholar to be such! Barrow. 

BUNGLING:  Unskillful; awkward; clumsy; as, a bungling workman. Swift. They make but bungling work. Dryden. 

BUNGLINGLY:  Clumsily; awkwardly. 

BUNGO:  A kind of canoe used in Central and South America; also, a kind of boat used in the Southern United States. Bartlett. 

BUNION:  Same as Bunyon. 

BUNK:  To go to bed in a bunk; -- sometimes with in. [Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett. 

BUNKO:  A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by a sham lottery. [Written also bunco.] Bunko steerer, a person employed as a decoy in bunko. [Slang, U.S.] 

BUNKUM:  See Buncombe. 

BUNN:  See Bun. 

BUNNIAN:  See Bunyon. 

BUNNY:  A great collection of ore without any vein coming into it or going out from it. 

BUNNY:  A pet name for a rabbit or a squirrel.  BUNODONTA; BUNODONTS Bu`no*don"ta, Bu"no*donts, n. pl. Etym: [NL. bunodonta, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  A division of the herbivorous mammals including the hogs and hippopotami; -- so called because the teeth are tuberculated.  BUNSEN CELL Bun"sen cell. (Elec.)  A zinc-carbon cell in which the zinc (amalgamated) is surrounded by dilute sulphuric acid, and the carbon by nitric acid or a chromic acid mixture, the two plates being separated by a porous cup.  BUNSEN'S BATTERY; BUNSEN'S BURNER Bun"sen's bat"ter*y, Bun"sen's burn`er.  See under Battery, and Burner. 

BUNT:  A fungus (Ustilago foetida) which affects the ear of cereals, filling the grains with a fetid dust; -- also called pepperbrand. 

BUNT:  The middle part, cavity, or belly of a sail; the part of a furled sail which is at the center of the yard. Totten. 

BUNT:  To swell out; as, the sail bunts. 

BUNT:  To strike or push with the horns or head; to butt; as, the ram bunted the boy. 

BUNTER:  A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgar woman. [Cant] Her . . . daughters, like bunters in stuff gowns. Goldsmith. 

BUNTING:  A bird of the genus Emberiza, or of an allied genus, related to the finches and sparrows (family Fringillidæ).  Note: Among European species are the common or corn bunting (Emberiza miliaria); the ortolan (E. hortulana); the cirl (E. cirlus); and the black-headed (Granitivora melanocephala). American species are the bay-winged or grass (Poöcætes or Pooecetes gramineus); the black- throated (Spiza Americana); the towhee bunting or chewink (Pipilo); the snow bunting (Plectrophanax nivalis); the rice bunting or bobolink, and others. See Ortolan, Chewick, Snow bunting, Lark bunting.  BUNTING; BUNTINE Bun"ting, Bun"tine, n. Etym: [Prov. E. bunting sifting flour, OE. bonten to sift, hence prob. the material used for that purpose.]  A thin woolen stuff, used chiefly for flags, colors, and ships' signals. 

BUNTLINE:  One of the ropes toggled to the footrope of a sail, used to haul up to the yard the body of the sail when taking it in. Totten.  BUNYON; BUNION Bun"yon, Bun"ion, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. bunny a small swelling, fr. OF. bugne, It. bugna, bugnone. See Bun.] (Med.)  An enlargement and inflammation of a small membranous sac (one of the bursæ muscosæ), usually occurring on the first joint of the great toe. 

BUOY:  A float; esp. a floating object moored to the bottom, to mark a channel or to point out the position of something beneath the water, as an anchor, shoal, rock, etc. Anchor buoy, a buoy attached to, or marking the position of, an anchor.  -- Bell buoy, a large buoy on which a bell is mounted, to be rung by the motion of the waves.  -- Breeches buoy. See under Breeches.  -- Cable buoy, an empty cask employed to buoy up the cable in rocky anchorage.  -- Can buoy, a hollow buoy made of sheet or boiler iron, usually conical or pear-shaped.  -- Life buoy, a float intended to support persons who have fallen into the water, until a boat can be dispatched to save them.  -- Nut or Nun buoy, a buoy large in the middle, and tapering nearly to a point at each end.  -- To stream the buoy, to let the anchor buoy fall by the ship's side into the water, before letting go the anchor.  -- Whistling buoy, a buoy fitted with a whistle that is blown by the action of the waves. 

BUOY:  To float; to rise like a buoy. "Rising merit will buoy up at last." Pope. 

BUOYAGE:  Buoys, taken collectively; a series of buoys, as for the guidance of vessels into or out of port; the providing of buoys. 

BUOYANCE:  Buoyancy. [R.] 

BUOYANCY:  The upward pressure exerted upon a floating body by a fluid, which is equal to the weight of the body; hence, also, the weight of a floating body, as measured by the volume of fluid displaced. Such are buoyancies or displacements of the different classes of her majesty's ships. Eng. Cyc.  3. Cheerfulness; vivacity; liveliness; sprightliness; -- the opposite of Ant: heaviness; as, buoyancy of spirits. 

BUPRESTIDAN:  One of a tribe of beetles, of the genus Buprestis and allied genera, usually with brilliant metallic colors. The larvæ are usually bores in timber, or beneath bark, and are often very destructive to trees.  BUR; BURR Bur, Burr, n. Etym: [OE. burre burdock; cf. Dan. borre, OSw. borra, burdock, thistle; perh. akin to E. bristle (burr- for burz-), or perh. to F. bourre hair, wool, stuff; also, according to Cotgrave, "the downe, or hairie coat, wherewith divers herbes, fruits, and flowers, are covered," fr. L. burrae trifles, LL. reburrus rough.]  1. (Bot.)  Any rough or prickly envelope of the seeds of plants, whether a pericarp, a persistent calyx, or an involucre, as of the chestnut and burdock. Also, any weed which bears burs. Amongst rude burs and thistles. Milton. Bur and brake and brier. Tennyson.  2. The thin ridge left by a tool in cutting or shaping metal. See Burr, n., 2.  3. A ring of iron on a lance or spear. See Burr, n., 4.  4. The lobe of the ear. See Burr, n., 5.  5. The sweetbread.  6. A clinker; a partially vitrified brick.  7. (Mech.) (a) A small circular saw. (b) A triangular chisel. (c) A drill with a serrated head larger than the shank; -- used by dentists.  8. Etym: [Cf. Gael. borr, borra, a knob, bunch.] (Zoöl.)  The round knob of an antler next to a deer's head. [Commonly written burr.] Bur oak (Bot.), a useful and ornamental species of oak (Quercus macrocarpa) with ovoid acorns inclosed in deep cups imbricated with pointed scales. It grows in the Middle and Western United States, and its wood is tough, close-grained, and durable.  -- Bur reed (Bot.), a plant of the genus Sparganium, having long ribbonlike leaves. 

BURBOLT:  A birdbolt. [Obs.] Ford. 

BURBOT:  A fresh-water fish of the genus Lota, having on the nose two very small barbels, and a larger one on the chin. [Written also burbolt.]  Note: The fish is also called an eelpout or ling, and is allied to the codfish. The Lota vulgaris is a common European species. An American species (L. maculosa) is found in New England, the Great Lakes, and farther north. 

BURDELAIS:  A sort of grape. Jonson. 

BURDEN:  The tops or heads of stream-work which lie over the stream of tin.  5. (Metal.)  The proportion of ore and flux to fuel, in the charge of a blast furnace. Raymond.  6. A fixed quantity of certain commodities; as, a burden of gad steel, 120 pounds.  7. A birth. [Obs. & R.] Shak. Beast of burden, an animal employed in carrying burdens.  -- Burden of proof Etym: [L. onus probandi] (Law), the duty of proving a particular position in a court of law, a failure in the performance of which duty calls for judgment against the party on whom the duty is imposed.  Syn.  -- Burden, Load. A burden is, in the literal sense, a weight to be borne; a load is something laid upon us to be carried. Hence, when used figuratively, there is usually a difference between the two words. Our burdens may be of such a nature that we feel bound to bear them cheerfully or without complaint. They may arise from the nature of our situation; they may be allotments of Providence; they may be the consequences of our errors. What is upon us, as a load, we commonly carry with greater reluctance or sense of oppression. Men often find the charge of their own families to be a burden; but if to this be added a load of care for others, the pressure is usually serve and irksome. 

BURDEN:  A club. [Obs.] Spenser. 

BURDENER:  One who loads; a oppressor. 

BURDENOUS:  Burdensome. [Obs.] "Burdenous taxations." Shak. 

BURDENSOME:  Grievous to be borne; causing uneasiness or fatigue; oppressive. The debt immense of endless gratitude So burdensome. Milton.  Syn.  -- Heavy; weighty; cumbersome; onerous; grievous; oppressive; troublesome.  -- Bur"den*some*ly, adv.  -- Bur"den*some*ness, n. 

BURDOCK:  A genus of coarse biennial herbs (Lappa), bearing small burs which adhere tenaciously to clothes, or to the fur or wool of animals.  Note: The common burdock is the Lappa officinalis. 

BURDON:  A pilgrim's staff. [Written also burden.] Rom. of R. 

BUREAUCRAT:  An official of a bureau; esp. an official confirmed in a narrow and arbitrary routine. C. Kingsley.  BUREAUCRATIC; BUREAUCRATICAL Bu`reau*crat"ic, Bu`reau*crat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. bureaucratique.]  Of, relating to, or resembling, a bureaucracy. 

BUREAUCRATIST:  An advocate for , or supporter of, bureaucracy. 

BUREL:  Same as Borrel. 

BURETTE:  An apparatus for delivering measured quantities of liquid or for measuring the quantity of liquid or gas received or discharged. It consists essentially of a graduated glass tube, usually furnished with a small aperture and stopcock.  BUR FISH Bur" fish`. (Zoöl.)  A spinose, plectognath fish of the Allantic coast of the United States (esp. Chilo mycterus geometricus) having the power of distending its body with water or air, so as to resemble a chestnut bur; -- called also ball fish, balloon fish, and swellfish. 

BURGAGE:  A tenure by which houses or lands are held of the king or other lord of a borough or city; at a certain yearly rent, or by services relating to trade or handicraft. Burrill. 

BURGALL:  A small marine fish; -- also called cunner. 

BURGAMOT:  See Bergamot. 

BURGANET:  See Burgonet. 

BURGEE:  A swallow-tailed flag; a distinguishing pen 

BURGEOIS:  See 1st Bourgeous. 

BURGEOIS:  A burgess; a citizen. See 2d Bourgeois. [R.] Addison. 

BURGEON:  To bud. See Bourgeon. 

BURGESS:  The state of privilege of a burgess. South. 

BURGGRAVE:  Originally, one appointed to the command of a burg (fortress or castle); but the title afterward became hereditary, with a domain attached. 

BURGH:  A borough or incorporated town, especially, one in Scotland. See Borough. 

BURGHAL:  Belonging of a burgh. 

BURGHBOTE:  A contribution toward the building or repairing of castles or walls for the defense of a city or town. 

BURGHBRECH:  The offense of violating the pledge given by every inhabitant of a tithing to keep the peace; breach of the peace. Burrill. 

BURGHER:  A member of that party, among the Scotch seceders, which asserted the lawfulness of the burgess oath (in which burgesses profess "the true religion professed within the realm"), the opposite party being called antiburghers.  Note: These parties arose among the Presbyterians of Scotland, in 1747, and in 1820 reunited under the name of the "United Associate Synod of the Secession Church." 

BURGHERMASTER:  See Burgomaster. 

BURGHERSHIP:  The state or privileges of a burgher. 

BURGHMASTER:  An officer who directs and lays out the meres or boundaries for the workmen; -- called also bailiff, and barmaster. [Eng.] 

BURGHMOTE:  A court or meeting of a burgh or borough; a borough court held three times yearly. 

BURGLAR:  One guilty of the crime of burglary. Burglar alarm, a device for giving alarm if a door or window is opened from without. 

BURGLARER:  A burglar. [Obs.] 

BURGLARIOUS:  Pertaining to burglary; constituting the crime of burglary. To come down a chimney is held a burglarious entry. Blackstone. 

BURGLARIOUSLY:  With an intent to commit burglary; in the manner of a burglar. Blackstone. 

BURGLARY:  Breaking and entering the dwelling house of another, in the nighttime, with intent to commit a felony therein, whether the felonious purpose be accomplished or not. Wharton. Burrill.  Note: By statute law in some of the United States, burglary includes the breaking with felonious intent into a house by day as well as by night, and into other buildings than dwelling houses. Various degrees of the crime are established. 

BURGOMASTER:  An aquatic bird, the glaucous gull (Larus glaucus), common in arctic regions. 

BURGONET:  A kind of helmet. [Written also burganet.] Shak. 

BURGOO:  A kind of oatmeal pudding, or thick gruel, used by seamen. [Written also burgout.] 

BURGRASS:  Grass of the genus Cenchrus, growing in sand, and having burs for fruit. 

BURGRAVE:  See Burggrave. 

BURH:  See Burg. [Obs.]  BURHEL; BURRHEL Bur"hel, Burr"hel, n. (Zoöl.)  The wild Himalayan, or blue, sheep (Ovis burrhel). 

BURIER:  One who, or that which, buries. Till the buriers have buried it. Ezek. xxxix. 15. And darkness be the burier of the dead. Shak. 

BURINIST:  One who works with the burin. For. Quart. Rev. 

BURION:  The red-breasted house sparrow of California (Carpodacus frontalis); -- called also crimson-fronted bullfinch. [Written also burrion.] 

BURKISM:  The practice of killing persons for the purpose of selling their bodies for dissection. 

BURL:  To dress or finish up (cloth); to pick knots, burs, loose threads, etc., from, as in finishing cloth. Burling iron, a peculiar kind of nippers or tweezers used in burling woolen cloth. 

BURLAP:  A coarse fabric, made of jute or hemp, used for bagging; also, a finer variety of similar material, used for curtains, etc. [Written also burlaps.] 

BURLER:  One who burls or dresses cloth. 

BURLESQUE:  Tending to excite laughter or contempt by extravagant images, or by a contrast between the subject and the manner of treating it, as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity; jocular; ironical. It is a dispute among the critics, whether burlesque poetry runs best in heroic verse, like that of the Dispensary, or in doggerel, like that of Hudibras. Addison. 

BURLESQUE:  To ridicule, or to make ludicrous by grotesque representation in action or in language. They burlesqued the prophet Jeremiah's words, and turned the expression he used into ridicule. Stillingfleet. 

BURLESQUE:  To employ burlesque. 

BURLESQUER:  One who burlesques. 

BURLETTA:  A comic operetta; a music farce. Byron. 

BURLINESS:  Quality of being burly. 

BURMAN:  A member of the Burman family, one of the four great families Burmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to the Burmans or to Burmah.  BUR MARIGOLD Bur" mar"i*gold.  See Beggar's ticks. 

BURMESE:  Of or pertaining to Burmah, or its inhabitants.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or the natives of Burmah. Also (sing.), the language of the Burmans. 

BURN:  To apply a cautery to; to cauterize.  7. (Chem.)  To cause to combine with oxygen or other active agent, with evolution of heat; to consume; to oxidize; as, a man burns a certain amount of carbon at each respiration; to burn iron in oxygen. To burn, To burn together, as two surfaces of metal (Engin.), to fuse and unite them by pouring over them a quantity of the same metal in a liquid state.  -- To burn a bowl (Game of Bowls), to displace it accidentally, the bowl so displaced being said to be burned.  -- To burn daylight, to light candles before it is dark; to waste time; to perform superfluous actions. Shak.  -- To burn one's fingers, to get one's self into unexpected trouble, as by interfering the concerns of others, speculation, etc.  -- To burn out, to destroy or obliterate by burning. "Must you with hot irons burn out mine eyes" Shak.  -- To be burned out, to suffer loss by fire, as the burning of one's house, store, or shop, with the contents.  -- To burn up, To burn down, to burn entirely. 

BURN:  To combine energetically, with evolution of heat; as, copper burns in chlorine.  5. In certain games, to approach near to a concealed object which is sought. [Colloq.] To burn out, to burn till the fuel is exhausted.  -- To burn up, To burn down, to be entirely consumed. 

BURN:  A small stream. [Scot.] 

BURNABLE:  Combustible. Cotgrave. 

BURNED:  See Burnt. 

BURNED:  Burnished. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

BURNET:  A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium); especially, P.Sanguisorba, the common, or garden, burnet. Burnet moth (Zoöl.), in England, a handsome moth (Zygæna filipendula), with crimson spots on the wings.  -- Burnet saxifrage. (Bot.) See Saxifrage.  -- Canadian burnet, a marsh plant (Poterium Canadensis).  -- Great burnet, Wild burnet, Poterium (or Sanguisorba) oficinalis. 

BURNETTIZE:  To subject (wood, fabrics, etc.) to a process of saturation in a solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent decay; -- a process invented by Sir William Burnett. 

BURNIE:  A small brook. [Scot.] Burns. 

BURNIEBEE:  The ladybird. [Prov. Eng.] 

BURNING:  The act of consuming by fire or heat, or of subjecting to the effect of fire or heat; the state of being on fire or excessively heated. Burning fluid, any volatile illuminating oil, as the lighter petroleums (naphtha, benzine), or oil of turpentine (camphine), but esp. a mixture of the latter with alcohol.  -- Burning glass, a conxex lens of considerable size, used for producing an intense heat by converging the sun's rays to a focus.  -- Burning house (Metal.), the furnace in which tin ores are calcined, to sublime the sulphur and arsenic from the pyrites. Weale.  -- Burning mirror, a concave mirror, or a combination of plane mirrors, used for the same purpose as a burning glass.  Syn.  -- Combustion; fire; conflagration; flame; blaze. 

BURNISH:  To cause to shine; to make smooth and bright; to polish; specifically, to polish by rubbing with something hard and smooth; as, to burnish brass or paper. The frame of burnished steel, that east a glare From far, and seemed to thaw the freezing air. Dryden. Now the village windows blaze, Burnished by the setting sun. Cunningham. Burnishing machine, a machine for smoothing and polishing by compression, as in making paper collars. 

BURNISH:  To shine forth; to brighten; to become smooth and glossy, as from swelling or filling out; hence, to grow large. A slender poet must have time to grow, And spread and burnish as his brothers do. Dryden. My thoughts began to burnish, sprout, and swell. Herbert. 

BURNISH:  The effect of burnishing; gloss; brightness; luster. Crashaw. 

BURNSTICKLE:  A stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus). 

BURNT:  Consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as with fire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun. Burnt ear, a black, powdery fungus which destroys grain. See Smut.  -- Burnt offering, something offered and burnt on an altar, as an atonement for sin; a sacrifice. The offerings of the Jews were a clean animal, as an ox, a calf, a goat, or a sheep; or some vegetable substance, as bread, or ears of wheat or barley. Called also burnt sacrifice. [2 Sam. xxiv. 22.] 

BURR:  A guttural pronounciation of the letter r, produced by trilling the extremity of the soft palate against the back part of the tongue; rotacism; -- often called the Newcastle, Northumberland, or Tweedside, burr.  7. The knot at the bottom of an antler. See Bur, n., 8. 

BURR:  To speak with burr; to make a hoarse or guttural murmur. Mrs. Browning. 

BURREL:  A sort of pear, called also the red butter pear, from its smooth, delicious, soft pulp. 

BURREL:  Same as Borrel.  BURREL FLY Bur"rel fly`. Etym: [From its reddish color. See 1st Burrel.] (Zoöl.)  The botfly or gadfly of cattle (Hypoderma bovis). See Gadfly.  BURREL SHOT Bur"rel shot`. Etym: [Either from annoying the enemy like a burrel fly, or, less probably, fr. F. bourreler to sting, torture.] (Gun.)  A mixture of shot, nails, stones, pieces of old iron, etc., fired from a cannon at short range, in an emergency. [R.]  BURRING MACHINE Burr"ing ma*chine".  A machine for cleansing wool of burs, seeds, and other substances.  BURR MILLSTONE Burr" mill"stone`.  See Buhrstone. 

BURRO:  A donkey. [Southern U.S.] 

BURROCK:  A small weir or dam in a river to direct the stream to gaps where fish traps are placed. Knight. 

BURROW:  A heap or heaps of rubbish or refuse.  4. A mound. See 3d Barrow, and Camp, n., 5. 

BURROWER:  One who, or that which, burrows; an animal that makes a hole under ground and lives in it. 

BURRSTONE:  See Buhrstone. 

BURRY:  Abounding in burs, or containing burs; resembling burs; as, burry wool. 

BURSA:  Any sac or saclike cavity; especially, one of the synovial sacs, or small spaces, often lined with synovial membrane, interposed between tendons and bony prominences. 

BURSAL:  Of or pertaining to a bursa or to bursæ. 

BURSARSHIP:  The office of a bursar. 

BURSCH:  A youth; especially, a student in a german university. 

BURSCHENSCHAFT:  In Germany, any of various associations of university students formed (the original one at Jena in 1815) to support liberal ideas, or the organization formed by the affiliation of the local bodies. The organization was suppressed by the government in 1819, but was secretly revived, and is now openly maintained as a social organization, the restrictive laws having been repealed prior to 1849. -- Bur"schen*schaft`ler (#), -schaf`ter (#), n. 

BURSE:  An ornamental case of hold the corporal when not in use. Shipley.  4. An exchange, for merchants and bankers, in the cities of continental Europe. Same as Bourse.  5. A kind of bazaar. [Obs.] She says she went to the burse for patterns. Old Play. 

BURSICULATE:  Bursiform. 

BURSIFORM:  Shaped like a purse. 

BURSITIS:  Inflammation of a bursa. 

BURSTEN:  p. p. of Burst, v. i. [Obs.] 

BURSTER:  One that bursts. 

BURSTWORT:  A plant (Herniaria glabra) supposed to be valuable for the cure of hernia or rupture. 

BURT:  See Birt. [Prov. Eng.] 

BURTHEN:  See Burden. [Archaic] 

BURTON:  A peculiar tackle, formed of two or more blocks, or pulleys, the weight being suspended of a hook block in the bight of the running part. 

BURY:  The ground or place for burying the dead; burial place. 

BUS:  An omnibus. [Colloq.] 

BUSBY:  A military headdress or cap, used in the British army. It is of fur, with a bag, of the same color as the facings of the regiment, hanging from the top over the right shoulder. 

BUSCON:  One who searches for ores; a prospector. [U.S.] 

BUSH:  The tail, or brush, of a fox. To beat about the bush, to approach anything in a round-about manner, instead of coming directly to it; -- a metaphor taken from hunting.  -- Bush bean (Bot.), a variety of bean which is low and requires no support (Phaseolus vulgaris, variety nanus). See Bean, 1.  -- Bush buck, or Bush goat (Zoöl.), a beautiful South African antelope (Tragelaphus sylvaticus); -- so called because found mainly in wooden localities. The name is also applied to other species.  -- Bush cat (Zoöl.), the serval. See Serval.  -- Bush chat (Zoöl.), a bird of the genus Pratincola, of the Thrush family.  -- Bush dog. (Zoöl.) See Potto.  -- Bush hammer. See Bushhammer in the Vocabulary.  -- Bush harrow (Agric.) See under Harrow.  -- Bush hog (Zoöl.), a South African wild hog (Potamochoerus Africanus); -- called also bush pig, and water hog.  -- Bush master (Zoöl.), a venomous snake (Lachesis mutus) of Guinea; -- called also surucucu.  -- Bush pea (Bot.), a variety of pea that needs to be bushed.  -- Bush shrike (Zoöl.), a bird of the genus Thamnophilus, and allied genera; -- called also batarg. Many species inhabit tropical America.  -- Bush tit (Zoöl.), a small bird of the genus Psaltriparus, allied to the titmouse. P. minimus inhabits California. 

BUSH:  To branch thickly in the manner of a bush. "The bushing alders." Pope. 

BUSH:  A lining for a hole to make it smaller; a thimble or ring of metal or wood inserted in a plate or other part of machinery to receive the wear of a pivot or arbor. Knight.  Note: In the larger machines, such a piece is called a box, particularly in the United States.  2. (Gun.)  A piece of copper, screwed into a gun, through which the venthole is bored. Farrow. 

BUSH:  To furnish with a bush, or lining; as, to bush a pivot hole. 

BUSHBOY:  See Bushman. 

BUSHELAGE:  A duty payable on commodities by the bushel. [Eng.] 

BUSHELMAN:  A tailor's assistant for repairing garments; -- called also busheler. [Local, U.S.] 

BUSHET:  A small bush. 

BUSHFIGHTER:  One accustomed to bushfighting. Parkman. 

BUSHFIGHTING:  Fighting in the bush, or from behind bushes, trees, or thickets. 

BUSHHAMMER:  A hammer with a head formed of a bundle of square bars, with pyramidal points, arranged in rows, or a solid head with a face cut into a number of rows of such points; -- used for dressing stone. 

BUSHHAMMER:  To dress with bushhammer; as, to bushhammer a block of granite. 

BUSHIDO:  The unwritten code of moral principles regulating the actions of the Japanese knighthood, or Samurai; the chivalry of Japan.  Unformulated, Bushido was and still is the animating spirit, the motor force of our country. Inazo Nitobé. 

BUSHINESS:  The condition or quality of being bushy. 

BUSHING:  A bush or lining; -- sometimes called . See 4th Bush. 

BUSHLESS:  Free from bushes; bare. O'er the long backs of the bushless downs. Tennyson. 

BUSHMAN:  One of a race of South African nomads, living principally in the deserts, and not classified as allied in race or language to any other people. 

BUSHRANGER:  One who roams, or hides, among the bushes; especially, in Australia, an escaped criminal living in the bush. 

BUSILY:  In a busy manner. 

BUSINESS:  The position, distribution, and order of persons and properties on the stage of a theater, as determined by the stage manager in rehearsal.  7. Care; anxiety; diligence. [Obs.] Chaucer. To do one's business, to ruin one. [Colloq.] Wycherley.  -- To make (a thing) one's business, to occupy one's self with a thing as a special charge or duty. [Colloq.] -- To mean business, to be earnest. [Colloq.]  Syn.  -- Affairs; concern; transaction; matter; engagement; employment; calling; occupation; trade; profession; vocation; office; duty. 

BUSINESSLIKE:  In the manner of one transacting business wisely and by right methods. 

BUSK:  A thin, elastic strip of metal, whalebone, wood, or other material, worn in the front of a corset. Her long slit sleeves, stiff busk, puff verdingall, Is all that makes her thus angelical. Marston. 

BUSKED:  Wearing a busk. Pollok. 

BUSKY:  See Bosky, and 1st Bush, n. Shak. 

BUSS:  A kiss; a rude or playful kiss; a smack. Shak. 

BUSS:  To kiss; esp. to kiss with a smack, or rudely. "Nor bussed the milking maid." Tennyson. Kissing and bussing differ both in this, We buss our wantons, but our wives we kiss. Herrick. 

BUSS:  A small strong vessel with two masts and two cabins; -- used in the herring fishery. The Dutch whalers and herring busses. Macaulay. 

BUSTARD:  A bird of the genus Otis.  Note: The great or bearded bustard (Otis tarda) is the largest game bird in Europe. It inhabits the temperate regions of Europe and Asia, and was formerly common in Great Britain. The little bustard (O. tetrax) inhabits eastern Europe and Morocco. Many other species are known in Asia and Africa. 

BUSTER:  Something huge; a roistering blade; also, a spree. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett. 

BUSTLE:  To move noisily; to be rudely active; to move in a way to cause agitation or disturbance; as, to bustle through a crowd. And leave the world for me to bustle in. Shak. 

BUSTLE:  Great stir; agitation; tumult from stirring or excitement. A strange bustle and disturbance in the world. South. 

BUSTLE:  A kind of pad or cushion worn on the back below the waist, by women, to give fullness to the skirts; -- called also bishop, and tournure. 

BUSTLER:  An active, stirring person. 

BUSTLING:  Agitated; noisy; tumultuous; characterized by confused activity; as, a bustling crowd. "A bustling wharf." Hawthorne. 

BUSTO:  A bust; a statue. With some antick bustoes in the niches. Ashmole. 

BUSY:  To make or keep busy; to employ; to engage or keep engaged; to occupy; as, to busy one's self with books. Be it thy course to busy giddy minds With foreign quarrels. Shak. 

BUSYBODY:  One who officiously concerns himself with the affairs of others; a meddling person. And not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not. 1 Tim. v. 13. 

BUT:  The outer apartment or kitchen of a two-roomed house; -- opposed to ben, the inner room. [Scot.] 

BUT:  See Butt, v., and Abut, v. 

BUTANE:  An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon, C4H10, of the marsh gas, or paraffin, series. 

BUTCHERLINESS:  Butchery quality. 

BUTCHERLY:  Like a butcher; without compunction; savage; bloody; inhuman; fell. "The victim of a butcherly murder." D. Webster. What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly, This deadly quarrel daily doth beget! Shak.  BUTCHER'S BROOM Butch"er's broom`. (Bot.)  A genus of plants (Ruscus); esp. R. aculeatus, which has large red berries and leaflike branches. See Cladophyll. 

BUTLER:  An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whose principal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.; the head servant in a large house. The butler and the baker of the king of Egypt. Gen. xl. 5. Your wine locked up, your butler strolled abroad. Pope. 

BUTLERAGE:  A duty of two shillings on every tun of wine imported into England by merchant strangers; -- so called because paid to the king's butler for the king. Blackstone. 

BUTLERSHIP:  The office of a butler. 

BUTMENT:  A buttress of an arch; the supporter, or that part which joins it to the upright pier.  2. (Masonry)  The mass of stone or solid work at the end of a bridge, by which the extreme arches are sustained, or by which the end of a bridge without arches is supported. Butment cheek (Carp.), the part of a mortised timber surrounding the mortise, and against which the shoulders of the tenon bear. Knight.  BUTT; BUT Butt, But, n. Etym: [F. but butt, aim (cf. butte knoll), or bout, OF. bot, end, extremity, fr. boter, buter, to push, butt, strike, F. bouter; of German origin; cf. OHG. bozan, akin to E. beat. See Beat, v. t.]  1. A limit; a bound; a goal; the extreme bound; the end. Here is my journey's end, here my butt And very sea mark of my utmost sail. Shak.  Note: As applied to land, the word is nearly synonymous with mete, and signifies properly the end line or boundary; the abuttal.  2. The thicker end of anything. See But.  3. A mark to be shot at; a target. Sir W. Scott. The groom his fellow groom at butts defies, And bends his bow, and levels with his eyes. Dryden.  4. A person at whom ridicule, jest, or contempt is directed; as, the butt of the company. I played a sentence or two at my butt, which I thought very smart. Addison.  5. A push, thrust, or sudden blow, given by the head of an animal; as, the butt of a ram.  6. A thrust in fencing. To prove who gave the fairer butt, John shows the chalk on Robert's coat. Prior.  7. A piece of land left unplowed at the end of a field. The hay was growing upon headlands and butts in cornfields. Burrill.  8. (Mech.) (a) A joint where the ends of two objects come squarely together without scrafing or chamfering; -- also called butt joint. (b) The end of a connecting rod or other like piece, to which the boxing is attached by the strap, cotter, and gib. (c) The portion of a half-coupling fastened to the end of a hose.  9. (Shipbuilding)  The joint where two planks in a strake meet.  10. (Carp.)  A kind of hinge used in hanging doors, etc.; -- so named because fastened on the edge of the door, which butts against the casing, instead of on its face, like the strap hinge; also called butt hinge.  11. (Leather Trade)  The thickest and stoutest part of tanned oxhides, used for soles of boots, harness, trunks.  12. The hut or shelter of the person who attends to the targets in rifle practice. Butt chain (Saddlery), a short chain attached to the end of a tug.  -- Butt end. The thicker end of anything. See But end, under 2d But. Amen; and make me die a good old man! That's the butt end of a mother's blessing. Shak. A butt's length, the ordinary distance from the place of shooting to the butt, or mark.  -- Butts and bounds (Conveyancing), abuttals and boundaries. In lands of the ordinary rectangular shape, butts are the lines at the ends (F. bouts), and bounds are those on the sides, or sidings, as they were formerly termed. Burrill.  -- Bead and butt. See under Bead.  -- Butt and butt, joining end to end without overlapping, as planks.  -- Butt weld (Mech.), a butt joint, made by welding together the flat ends, or edges, of a piece of iron or steel, or of separate pieces, without having them overlap. See Weld.  -- Full butt, headfirst with full force. [Colloq.] "The corporal . . . ran full butt at the lieutenant." Marryat. 

BUTT:  To strike by thrusting the head against; to strike with the head. Two harmless lambs are butting one the other. Sir H. Wotton. 

BUTT:  A large cask or vessel for wine or beer. It contains two hogsheads.  Note: A wine butt contains 126 wine gallons (= 105 imperial gallons, nearly); a beer butt 108 ale gallons (= about 110 imperial gallons). 

BUTT:  The common English flounder. 

BUTTE:  A detached low mountain, or high rising abruptly from the general level of the surrounding plain; -- applied to peculiar elevations in the Rocky Mountain region. The creek . . . passes by two remarkable buttes of red conglomerate. Ruxton. 

BUTTER:  One who, or that which, butts. 

BUTTERBALL:  The buffel duck. 

BUTTERBIRD:  The rice bunting or bobolink; -- so called in the island of Jamaica. 

BUTTERBUMP:  The European bittern. Johnson. 

BUTTERBUR:  A broad-leaved plant (Petasites vulgaris) of the Composite family, said to have been used in England for wrapping up pats of butter. 

BUTTERCUP:  A plant of the genus Ranunculus, or crowfoot, particularly R. bulbosus, with bright yellow flowers; -- called also butterflower, golden cup, and kingcup. It is the cuckoobud of Shakespeare.  BUTTER-FINGERED But"ter-fin`gered, a.  Apt to let things fall, or to let them slip away; slippery; careless. 

BUTTERFISH:  A name given to several different fishes, in allusion to their slippery coating of mucus, as the Stromateus triacanthus of the Atlantic coast, the Epinephelus punctatus of the southern coast, the rock eel, and the kelpfish of New Zealand. 

BUTTERFLY:  A general name for the numerous species of diurnal Lepidoptera.  Note: [See Illust. under Aphrodite.] Asclepias butterfly. See under Asclepias.  -- Butterfly fish (Zoöl.), the ocellated blenny (Blennius ocellaris) of Europe. See Blenny. The term is also applied to the flying gurnard.  -- Butterfly shell (Zoöl.), a shell of the genus Voluta.  -- Butterfly valve (Mech.), a kind of double clack valve, consisting of two semicircular clappers or wings hinged to a cross rib in the pump bucket. When open it somewhat resembles a butterfly in shape. 

BUTTERINE:  A substance prepared from animal fat with some other ingredients intermixed, as an imitation of butter. The manufacturers ship large quantities of oleomargarine to England, Holland, and other countries, to be manufactured into butter, which is sold as butterine or suine. Johnson's Cyc. 

BUTTERIS:  A steel cutting instrument, with a long bent shank set in a handle which rests against the shoulder of the operator. It is operated by a thrust movement, and used in paring the hoofs of horses. 

BUTTERMAN:  A man who makes or sells butter. 

BUTTERMILK:  The milk that remains after the butter is separated from the cream. 

BUTTERNUT:  An American tree (Juglans cinerea) of the Walnut family, and its edible fruit; -- so called from the oil contained in the latter. Sometimes called oil nut and white walnut.  2. (Bot.)  The nut of the Caryocar butyrosum and C. nuciferum, of S. America; -- called also Souari nut.  BUTTER-SCOTCH But"ter-scotch`, n.  A kind of candy, mainly composed of sugar and butter. [Colloq.] Dickens. 

BUTTERWEED:  An annual composite plant of the Mississippi valley (Senecio lobatus). 

BUTTERWEIGHT:  Over weight. Swift.  Note: Formerly it was a custom to give 18 ounces of butter for a pound. 

BUTTERWORT:  A genus of low herbs (Pinguicula) having simple leaves which secrete from their glandular upper surface a viscid fluid, to which insects adhere, after which the margin infolds and the insects are digested by the plant. The species are found mostly in the North Temperate zone. 

BUTTERY:  Having the qualities, consistence, or appearance, of butter. 

BUTTERY:  See 1st Butt, 10.  BUT-THORN But"-thorn`, n. (Zoöl.)  The common European starfish (Asterias rubens). 

BUTTING:  An abuttal; a boundary. Without buttings or boundings on any side. Bp. Beveridge.  BUTTING JOINT But"ting joint`.  A joint between two pieces of timber or wood, at the end of one or both, and either at right angles or oblique to the grain, as the joints which the struts and braces form with the truss posts; -- sometimes called abutting joint.  BUTT JOINT Butt" joint`.  A joint in which the edges or ends of the pieces united come squarely together instead of overlapping. See 1st Butt, 8. 

BUTTOCK:  The convexity of a ship behind, under the stern. Mar. Dict. 

BUTTON:  To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will not button. 

BUTTONBALL:  See Buttonwood. 

BUTTONBUSH:  A shrub (Cephalanthus occidentalis) growing by the waterside; - - so called from its globular head of flowers. See Capitulum. 

BUTTONHOLE:  The hole or loop in which a button is caught. 

BUTTONHOLE:  To hold at the button or buttonhole; to detain in conversation to weariness; to bore; as, he buttonholed me a quarter of an hour. 

BUTTONMOLD:  A disk of bone, wood, or other material, which is made into a button by covering it with cloth. [Written also buttonmould.] Fossil buttonmolds, joints of encrinites. See Encrinite. 

BUTTONS:  A boy servant, or page, -- in allusion to the buttons on his livry. [Colloq.] Dickens. 

BUTTONWEED:  The name of several plants of the genera Spermacoce and Diodia, of the Madder family. 

BUTTONWOOD:  The Platanus occidentalis, or American plane tree, a large tree, producing rough balls, from which it is named; -- called also buttonball tree, and, in some parts of the United States, sycamore. The California buttonwood is P. racemosa. 

BUTTONY:  Ornamented with a large number of buttons. "The buttony boy." Thackeray. "My coat so blue and buttony." W. S. Gilbert. 

BUTTRESS:  A projecting mass of masonry, used for resisting the thrust of an arch, or for ornament and symmetry.  Note: When an external projection is used merely to stiffen a wall, it is a pier.  2. Anything which supports or strengthens. "The ground pillar and buttress of the good old cause of nonconformity." South. Flying buttress. See Flying buttress. 

BUTTRESS:  To support with a buttress; to prop; to brace firmly. To set it upright again, and to prop and buttress it up for duration. Burke.  BUTT SHAFT Butt" shaft`  An arrow without a barb, for shooting at butts; an arrow. [Also but shaft.] Shak.  BUTT WELD Butt" weld`.  See Butt weld, under Butt. 

BUTTWELD:  To unite by a butt weld. 

BUTTY:  One who mines by contract, at so much per ton of coal or ore. 

BUTYL:  A compound radical, regarded as butane, less one atom of hydrogen. 

BUTYLAMINE:  A colorless liquid base, C4H9NH2, of which there are four isomeric varieties. 

BUTYLENE:  Any one of three metameric hydrocarbons, C4H8, of the ethylene series. They are gaseous or easily liquefiable. 

BUTYRACEOUS:  Having the qualities of butter; resembling butter. 

BUTYRATE:  A salt of butyric acid. 

BUTYRIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, butter. Butyric acid, C3H7.CO2H, an acid found in butter; an oily, limpid fluid, having the smell of rancid butter, and an acrid taste, with a sweetish aftertaste, like that of ether. There are two metameric butyric acids, called in distinction the normal- and iso-butyric acid. The normal butyric acid is the one common in rancid butter. 

BUTYRIN:  A butyrate of glycerin; a fat contained in small quantity in milk, which helps to give to butter its peculiar flavor. 

BUTYROMETER:  An instrument for determining the amount of fatty matter or butter contained in a sample of milk. 

BUTYRONE:  A liquid ketone obtained by heating calcium butyrate. 

BUTYROUS:  Butyraceous. 

BUTYRYL:  The radical (C4H7O) of butyric acid. 

BUXEOUS:  Belonging to the box tree. 

BUXINE:  An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common box tree. It is identical with bebeerine; -- called also buxina. 

BUY:  To negotiate or treat about a purchase. I will buy with you, sell with you. Shak. 

BUYER:  One who buys; a purchaser. 

BUZ:  See Buzz. [Obs.] 

BUZZ:  To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like that made by bees with their wings. Hence: To utter a murmuring sound; to speak with a low, humming voice. Like a wasp is buzzed, and stung him. Longfellow. However these disturbers of our peace Buzz in the people's ears. Shak. 

BUZZ:  To sound with a "buzz". H. Sweet. 

BUZZ:  The audible friction of voice consonants. H. Sweet. 

BUZZARD:  A bird of prey of the Hawk family, belonging to the genus Buteo and related genera.  Note: The Buteo vulgaris is the common buzzard of Europe. The American species (of which the most common are B. borealis, B. Pennsylvanicus, and B. lineatus) are usually called hen hawks.  -- The rough-legged buzzard, or bee hawk, of Europe (Pernis apivorus) feeds on bees and their larvæ, with other insects, and reptiles.  -- The moor buzzard of Europe is Circus æruginosus. See Turkey buzzard, and Carrion buzzard. Bald buzzard, the fishhawk or osprey. See Fishhawk.  2. A blockhead; a dunce. It is common, to a proverb, to call one who can not be taught, or who continues obstinately ignorant, a buzzard. Goldsmith. 

BUZZARD:  Senseless; stupid. [R.& Obs.] Milton. 

BUZZARDET:  A hawk resembling the buzzard, but with legs relatively longer. 

BUZZER:  One who, or that which, buzzes; a whisperer; a talebearer. And wants not buzzers to infect his ear With pestilent speeches of his father's death. Shak. 

BUZZINGLY:  In a buzzing manner; with a buzzing sound. 

BUZZSAW:  A circular saw; -- so called from the buzzing it makes when running at full speed. 

BY:  Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by- design, by-interest, etc. 

BYARD:  A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men who drag sledges in coal mines.  BY-BIDDER By"-bid`der, n.  One who bids at an auction in behalf of the auctioneer or owner, for the purpose of running up the price of articles. [U.S.]  BY-BLOW By"-blow`, n.  1. A side or incidental blow; an accidental blow. With their by-blows they did split the very stones in pieces. Bunyan.  2. An illegitimate child; a bastard. The Aga speedily . . . brought her [his disgraced slave] to court, together with her pretty by-blow, the present Padre Ottomano. Evelyn.  BY-CORNER By"-cor`ner, n.  A private corner. Britain being a by-corner, out of the road of the world. Fuller.  BY-DEPENDENCE By"-de*pend`ence, n.  An appendage; that which depends on something else, or is distinct from the main dependence; an accessory. Shak.  BY-DRINKING By"-drink`ing, n.  A drinking between meals. [Obs.] 

BYE:  A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye. T. Hughes. By the bye, in passing; by way of digression; apropos to the matter in hand. [Written also by the by.] 

BYE:  An election held by itself, not at the time of a general election.  BY-END By"-end`, n.  Private end or interest; secret purpose; selfish advantage. [Written also bye-end.] "Profit or some other by-end." L'Estrange. 

BYGONE:  Past; gone by. "Bygone fooleries." Shak 

BYGONE:  Something gone by or past; a past event. "Let old bygones be" Tennyson. Let bygones be bygones, let the past be forgotten.  BY-INTEREST By"-in`ter*est, n.  Self-interest; private advantage. Atterbury. 

BYLAND:  A peninsula. [Obs.] 

BYLANDER:  See Bilander.[Obs.]  BY-LANE By"-lane`, n.  A private lane, or one opening out of the usual road.  BY-LAW By"-law` (, n. Etym: [Cf.Sw.bylag, D.bylov, Icel.b, fr.Sw.& Dan. by town, Icel. bær, byr (fr. bûa to dwell) + the word for law; hence, a law for one town, a special law. Cf.Birlaw and see Law.]  1. A local or subordinate law; a private law or regulation made by a corporation for its own government. There was likewise a law to restrain the by-laws, or ordinances of corporations. Bacon. The law or institution; to which are added two by-laws, as a comment upon the general law. Addison.  2. A law that is less important than a general law or constitutional provision, and subsidiary to it; a rule relating to a matter of detail; as, civic societies often adopt a constitution and by-laws for the government of their members. In this sense the word has probably been influenced by by, meaning secondary or aside.  BY-NAME By"-name`, n.  A nickname. Camden. 

BYNAME:  To give a nickname to. Camden.  BY-PASS By"-pass, n. (Mech.)  A by-passage, for a pipe, or other channel, to divert circulation from the usual course.  BY-PASSAGE By"-pas`sage, n.  A passage different from the usual one; a byway.  BY-PAST By"-past, a.  Past; gone by. "By-past perils." Shak. 

BYPATH:  A private path; an obscure way; indirect means. God known, my son, By what bypaths, and indirect crooked ways, I met this crown. Shak.  BY-PLACE By"-place` (, n.  A retired or private place. 

BYPLAY:  Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while the main action proceeds.  BY-PRODUCT By"-prod`uct, n.  A secondary or additional product; something produced, as in the course of a manufacture, in addition to the principal product. 

BYRE:  A cow house. [N. of Eng.& Scot.]  BY-RESPECT By"-re*spect`, n.  Private end or view; by-interest. [Obs.] Dryden. 

BYROAD:  A private or obscure road. "Through slippery byroads" Swift. 

BYRONIC:  Pertaining to, or in the style of, Lord Byron. With despair and Byronic misanthropy. Thackeray  BY-ROOM By"-room`, n.  A private room or apartment. "Stand in some by-room" Shak. 

BYSMOTTERED:  Bespotted with mud or dirt. [Obs.] Chaucer.  BY-SPEECH By"-speech`(, n.  An incidental or casual speech, not directly relating to the point. "To quote by-speeches." Hooker.  BY-SPELL By"-spell`(, n. Etym: [AS. bigspell.]  A proverb. [Obs.] 

BYSS:  See Byssus, n., 1. 

BYSSACEOUS:  Byssuslike; consisting of fine fibers or threads, as some very delicate filamentous algæ. 

BYSSIFEROUS:  Bearing a byssus or tuft. 

BYSSIN:  See Byssus, n., 1. 

BYSSINE:  Made of silk; having a silky or flaxlike appearance. Coles. 

BYSSOID:  Byssaceous. 

BYSSOLITE:  An olive-green fibrous variety of hornblende. 

BYSSUS:  A tuft of long, tough filaments which are formed in a groove of the foot, and issue from between the valves of certain bivalve mollusks, as the Pinna and Mytilus, by which they attach themselves to rocks, etc.  3. (Bot.)  An obsolete name for certain fungi composed of slender threads.  4. Asbestus. 

BYSTANDER:  One who stands near; a spectator; one who has no concern with the business transacting. He addressed the bystanders and scattered pamphlets among them. Palfrey.  Syn.  -- Looker on; spectator; beholder; observer.  BY-STREET By"-street`, n.  A separate, private, or obscure street; an out of the way or cross street. He seeks by-streets, and saves the expensive coach. Gay.  BY-STROKE By"-stroke`, n.  An accidental or a slyly given stroke.  BY-TURNING By"-turn`ing, n.  An obscure road; a way turning from the main road. Sir P. Sidney.  BY-VIEW By"-view`(, n.  A private or selfish view; self-interested aim or purpose. No by-views of his own shall mislead him. Atterbury.  BY-WALK By"-walk`(, n.  secluded or private walk. He moves afterward in by-walks. Dryden.  BY-WASH By"-wash`, n.  The outlet from a dam or reservoir; also, a cut to divert the flow of water. 

BYWAY:  A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside from the main one. " Take no byways." Herbert.  BY-WIPE By"-wipe`, n.  A secret or side stroke, as of raillery or sarcasm. Milton. 

BYWORK:  Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondary business.  BYZANT; BYZANTINE Byz"ant, Byz"an*tine n.Etym: [OE. besant, besaunt, F. besant, fr. LL. Byzantius, Byzantinus, fr. Byzantium.] (Numis.)  A gold coin, so called from being coined at Byzantium. See Bezant. 

BYZANTIAN:  See Byzantine. 

BYZANTINE:  Of or pertaining to Byzantium.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Byzantium, now Constantinople; sometimes, applied to an inhabitant of the modern city of Constantinople. [ Written also Bizantine.] Byzantine church, the Eastern or Greek church, as distinguished from the Western or Roman or Latin church.See under Greek.  -- Byzantine empire, the Eastern Roman or Greek empire from A.D. 364 or A.D. 395 to the capture of Constantinople by the Turks, A.D. 1453.  -- Byzantine historians, historians and writers (Zonaras, Procopius, etc.) who lived in the Byzantine empire. P. Cyc. Byzantine style (Arch.), a style of architecture developed in the Byzantine empire.  Note: Its leading forms are the round arch, the dome, the pillar, the circle, and the cross. The capitals of the pillars are the endless variety, and full of invention. The mosque of St. Sophia, Constantinople, and the church of St. Mark, Venice, are prominent examples of Byzantine architecture. 

C:  (a) The keynote of the normal or "natural" scale, which has neither flats nor sharps in its signature; also, the third note of the relative minor scale of the same (b) C after the clef is the mark of common time, in which each measure is a semibreve (four fourths or crotchets); for alla breve time it is written (c) The "C clef," a modification of the letter C, placed on any line of the staff, abows that line to be middle C.  3. As a numeral, C stands for Latin centum or 100, CC for 200, etc. C spring, a spring in the form of the letter C. 

CAABA:  The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all Mohammedans must pray. [Written also kaaba.]  Note: The Caaba is situated in Mecca, a city of Arabia, and contains a famous black stone said to have been brought from heaven. Before the time of Mohammed, the Caaba was an idolatrous temple, but it has since been the chief sanctuary and object of pilgrimage of the Mohammedan world. 

CAADA:  A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.] 

CAAS:  Case. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CAATINGA:  A forest composed of stunted trees and thorny bushes, found in areas of small rainfall in Brazil. 

CAB:  A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37) pints. W. H. Ward. 2 Kings vi. 25. 

CABAL:  To unite in a small party to promote private views and interests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot. Caballing still against it with the great. Dryden. 

CABALIST:  One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewish traditions. "Studious cabalists." Swift.  CABALISTIC; CABALISTICAL Cab`a*lis"tic, Cab`a*lis"tic*al a.  Of or pertaining to the cabala; containing or conveying an occult meaning; mystic. The Heptarchus is a cabalistic of the first chapter of Genesis. Hallam. 

CABALISTICALLY:  In a cabalistic manner. 

CABALIZE:  To use cabalistic language. [R] Dr. H. More. 

CABALLER:  One who cabals. A close caballer and tongue-valiant lord. Dryden. 

CABALLERIA:  An ancient Spanish land tenure similar to the English knight's fee; hence, in Spain and countries settled by the Spanish, a land measure of varying size. In Cuba it is about 33 acres; in Porto Rico, about 194 acres; in the Southwestern United States, about 108 acres. 

CABALLERO:  A knight or cavalier; hence, a gentleman. 

CABALLINE:  Of or pertaining to a horse.  -- n.  Caballine aloes. Caballine aloes, an inferior and impure kind of aloes formerly used in veterinary practice; -- called also horse aloes.  -- Caballine spring, the fountain of Hippocrene, on Mount Helicon; - - fabled to have been formed by a stroke from the foot of the winged horse Pegasus. 

CABALLO:  A horse. [Sp. Amer.] 

CABARET:  A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed. [Obs. as an English word.] 

CABAS:  A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; Hence, a lady's flat workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba. C. Bronté. 

CABASSOU:  A speciec of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and X. hispidus); the tatouay. [Written also Kabassou.] 

CABBAGE:  To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettuce cabbage. Johnson. 

CABBAGE:  To purloin or embezzle, as the pieces of cloth remaining after cutting out a garment; to pilfer. Your tailor . . . cabbages whole yards of cloth. Arbuthnot. 

CABBAGE:  Cloth or clippings cabbaged or purloined by one who cuts out garments. 

CABBLER:  One who works at cabbling. 

CABBLING:  The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wrought iron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated and wrought into bar iron.  CABECA; CABESSE Ca*be"ça, Ca*besse", n. Etym: [Pg. cabeça, F. cabesse.]  The finest kind of silk received from India. 

CABER:  A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of strength. 

CABEZON:  A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to the sculpin. 

CABIAI:  The capybara. See Capybara. 

CABIN:  To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge. I'll make you . . . cabin in a cave. Shak. 

CABIN:  To confine in, or as in, a cabin. I am cabined, cribbed, confined, bound in To saucy doubts and fears. Shak. 

CABINET:  Suitable for a cabinet; small. He [Varnhagen von Ense] is a walking cabinet edition of Goethe. For. Quar. Rev. 

CABINET:  To inclose [R.] Hewyt. 

CABINETMAKER:  One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choice articles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc. 

CABINETMAKING:  The art or occupation of making the finer articles of household furniture. 

CABINETWORK:  The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniture requiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture. 

CABIREAN:  ,n.One of the Cabiri. 

CABIRI:  Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece; -- also called sons of Hephæstus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the art of working metals. [Written also Cabeiri.] Liddell & Scott. 

CABIRIAN:  Same as Cabiric. 

CABIRIC:  Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship. [Written also Cabiritic.] 

CABLE:  A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex, rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; -- called also cable molding. Bower cable, the cable belonging to the bower anchor.  -- Cable road, a railway on which the cars are moved by a continuously running endless rope operated by a stationary motor.  -- Cable's length, the length of a ship's cable. Cables in the merchant service vary in length from 100 to 140 fathoms or more; but as a maritime measure, a cable's length is either 120 fathoms (720 feet), or about 100 fathoms (600 feet, an approximation to one tenth of a nautical mile).  -- Cable tier. (a) That part of a vessel where the cables are stowed. (b) A coil of a cable.  -- Sheet cable, the cable belonging to the sheet anchor.  -- Stream cable, a hawser or rope, smaller than the bower cables, to moor a ship in a place sheltered from wind and heavy seas.  -- Submarine cable. See Telegraph.  -- To pay out the cable, To veer out the cable, to slacken it, that it may run out of the ship; to let more cable run out of the hawse hole.  -- To serve the cable, to bind it round with ropes, canvas, etc., to prevent its being, worn or galled in the hawse, et.  -- To slip the cable, to let go the end on board and let it all run out and go overboard, as when there is not time to weigh anchor. Hence, in sailor's use, to die. 

CABLE:  To ornament with cabling. See Cabling. 

CABLE:  To telegraph by a submarine cable [Recent] 

CABLED:  Adorned with cabling. 

CABLEGRAM:  A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.  Note: [A recent hybrid, sometimes found in the newspapers.] 

CABLELAID:  Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twisted together to form a cable.  2. Twisted after the manner of a cable; as, a cable-laid gold chain. Simmonds. 

CABLET:  A little cable less than ten inches in circumference. 

CABLING:  The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilaster with reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollows of the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of the height of the shaft. 

CABMAN:  The driver of a cab. 

CABOB:  To roast, as a cabob. Sir. T. Herbert. 

CABOCHED:  Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of the head of a beast in armorial bearing. [Written also caboshed.] 

CABOCHON:  A stone of convex form, highly polished, but not faceted; also, the style of cutting itself. Such stones are said to be cut en cabochon. 

CABOODLE:  The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usually in the phrase the whole caboodle. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett. 

CABOOSE:  A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called the galley.  2. (Railroad)  A car used on freight or construction trains for brakemen, workmen, etc.; a tool car. [U. S.] 

CABOTAGE:  Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage. 

CABREE:  The pronghorn antelope. [Also written cabrit, cabret.] 

CABRERITE:  An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt, and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain. 

CABRILLA:  A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genus Serranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coast of California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rock bass and kelp salmon. 

CABRIOLE:  A curvet; a leap. See Capriole. The cabrioles which his charger exhibited. Sir W. Scott. 

CABRIOLET:  A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top. 

CABRIT:  Same as Cabrée. 

CABURN:  A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize tackles, etc.  CACAEMIA; CACHAEMIA Ca*cæ"mi*a, Ca*chæ"mi*a n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)  A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood. 

CACAINE:  The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine. 

CACAJAO:  A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (or Brachyurus) melanocephala). [Written also cacajo.] 

CACAO:  A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and the West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seeds about the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and broma are prepared.  CACHAEMIA; CACHEMIA Ca*chæ"mi*a, Ca*che"mi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  bad +  blood.] (Med.)  A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood. --Ca*chæ"mic, Ca*che"mic (#), a. 

CACHALOT:  The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top of its head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, after death, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance called spermaceti. See Sperm whale. 

CACHE:  A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry. Kane.  CACHECTIC; CACHECTICAL Ca*chec"tic, Ca*chec"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. cachecticus, Gr. cachectique.]  Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies; cachectical blood. Arbuthnot. 

CACHEPOT:  An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal, paper, etc. 

CACHET:  A seal, as of a letter. Lettre de cachet Etym: [F.], a sealed letter, especially a letter or missive emanating from the sovereign; -- much used in France before the Revolution as an arbitrary order of imprisonment.  CACHEXIA; CACHEXY Ca*chex"i*a, Ca*chex"y, n. Etym: [L. cachexia, Gr.  A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid process (as cancer or tubercle). 

CACHINNATION:  Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hysterical or maniacal affections. Hideous grimaces . . . attended this unusual cachinnation. Sir W. Scott. 

CACHINNATORY:  Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter. Cachinnatory buzzes of approval. Carlyle. 

CACHIRI:  A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of the manioc, and resembling perry. Dunglison. 

CACHOLONG:  An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also, a similar variety of opal. 

CACHOU:  A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the breath. 

CACHUCHA:  An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembing the bolero. [Sometimes in English spelled cachuca (.] The orchestra plays the cachucha. Logfellow. 

CACHUNDE:  A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and other ingredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as a stomachic and antispasmodic. 

CACIQUE:  See Cazique. 

CACK:  To ease the body by stool; to go to stool. Pope. 

CACKEREL:  The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish considered poisonous by the ancients. See Mendole. 

CACKLING:  The broken noise of a goose or a hen.  CACOCHYMIA; CACOCHYMY Cac`o*chym"i*a, Cac"o*chym`y, n. Etym: [NL. cacochymia, fr. Gr. cacochymie.] (Med.)  A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body, especially of the blood. Dunglison.  CACOCHYMIC; CACOCHYMICAL Cac`o*chym"ic, Cac`o*chym"ic*al, a.  Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood. Wiseman. 

CACODEMON:  The nightmare. Dunaglison. 

CACODOXICAL:  Heretical. 

CACODOXY:  Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy. [R.] Heterodoxy, or what Luther calls cacodoxy. R. Turnbull. 

CACODYL:  Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4, spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeable odor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to the nitrogen compounds called hydrazines. [Written also cacodyle, and kakodyl.] 

CACODYLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl. Cacodylic acid, a white, crystalline, deliquescent substance, (CH3)2AsO.OH, obtained by the oxidation of cacodyl, and having the properties of an exceedingly stable acid; -- also called alkargen. 

CACOETHES:  A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer. 

CACOGASTRIC:  Troubled with bad digestion. [R.] Carlyle. 

CACOGRAPHIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly written or spelled. 

CACOGRAPHY:  Incorrect or bad writing or spelling. Walpole. 

CACOLET:  A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back or pack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainous districts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of an army. 

CACOLOGY:  Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words. Buchanan.  CACOMIXLE; CACOMIXTLE; CACOMIXL Ca`co*mix"le, Ca`co*mix"tle, Ca"co*mix`l, n. Etym: [Mexican name.]  A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of a cat, related to the raccoons. It inhabits Mexico, Texas, and California. 

CACOON:  One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.  CACOPHONIC; CACOPHONICAL; CACOPHONOUS; CACOPHONIOUS Cac`o*phon"ic, Cac`o*phon"ic*al, Ca*coph"o*nous, Cac`o*pho"ni*ous, a.  Harsh-sounding. 

CACOPHONY:  An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to the concurrence of harsh letters or syllables. "Cacophonies of all kinds." Pope.  2. (Mus.)  A combination of discordant sounds.  3. (Med.)  An unhealthy state of the voice. 

CACOSTOMIA:  Diseased or gangrenous condition of the mouth. 

CACOTECHNY:  A corruption or corrupt state of art. [R.]  CACOXENE; CACOXENITE Ca*cox"ene, Ca*cox"e*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)  A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts. The phosphorus seriously injures it as an iron ore. 

CACTACEOUS:  Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the prickly pear is a common example. 

CACTUS:  Any plant of the order Cactacæ, as the prickly pear and the night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly natives of the warmer parts of America. Cactus wren (Zoöl.), an American wren of the genus Campylorhynchus, of several species. 

CACUMINAL:  Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied to certain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters. 

CACUMINATE:  To make sharp or pointed. [Obs.] 

CADASTRAL:  Of or pertaining to landed property. Cadastral survey, or Cadastral map, a survey, map, or plan on a large scale (Usually topographical map, which exaggerates the dimensions of houses and the breadth of roads and streams, for the sake of distinctness. Brande & C.  CADASTRE; CADASTER Ca*das"tre, Ca*das"ter, n. Etym: [f. cadastre.] (Law.)  An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property. 

CADAVER:  A dead human body; a corpse. 

CADAVERIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changes produced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity. Dunglison. Cadaveric alkaloid, an alkaloid generated by the processes of decomposition in dead animal bodies, and thought by some to be the cause of the poisonous effects produced by the bodies. See Ptomaine.  CADAVERINE; CADAVERIN Ca*dav"er*ine, Ca*dav"er*in, n. [From Cadaver.] (Chem.)  A sirupy, nontoxic ptomaine, C5H14N2 (chemically pentamethylene diamine), formed in putrefaction of flesh, etc. 

CADBAIT:  See Caddice.  CADDICE; CADDIS Cad"dice, Cad"dis, n. Etym: [Prov. E. caddy, cadew; cf. G. köder bait.] (Zoöl.)  The larva of a caddice fly. These larvæ generally live in cylindrical cases, open at each end, and covered externally with pieces of broken shells, gravel, bits of wood, etc. They are a favorite bait with anglers. Called also caddice worm, or caddis worm. Caddice fly (Zoöl.), a species of trichopterous insect, whose larva is the caddice. 

CADDIS:  A kind of worsted lace or ribbon. "Caddises, cambrics, lawns." Shak. 

CADDISH:  Like a cad; lowbred and presuming. 

CADDOW:  A jackdaw. [Prov. Eng.] 

CADDY:  A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in. 

CADE:  Bred by hand; domesticated; petted. He brought his cade lamb with him. Sheldon. 

CADE:  To bring up or nourish by hand, or with tenderness; to coddle; to tame. [Obs.] Johnson. 

CADE:  A barrel or cask, as of fish. "A cade of herrings." Shak. A cade of herrings is 500, of sprats 1,000. Jacob, Law Dict. 

CADE:  A species of juniper (Juniperus Oxycedrus) of Mediterranean countries. Oil of cade, a thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by destructive distillation of the inner wood of the cade. It is used as a local application in skin diseases. 

CADENCE:  See Cadency.  6. (Man.)  Harmony and proportion in motions, as of a well-managed horse.  7. (Mil.)  A uniform time and place in marching.  8. (Mus.) (a) The close or fall of a strain; the point of rest, commonly reached by the immediate succession of the tonic to the dominant chord. (b) A cadenza, or closing embellishment; a pause before the end of a strain, which the performer may fill with a flight of fancy. Imperfect cadence. (Mus.) See under Imperfect. 

CADENCE:  To regulate by musical measure. These parting numbers, cadenced by my grief. Philips. 

CADENCY:  Descent of related families; distinction between the members of a family according to their ages. Marks of cadency (Her.), bearings indicating the position of the bearer as older or younger son, or as a descendant of an older or younger son. See Difference (Her.). 

CADENE:  A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant. McElrath. 

CADENT:  Falling. [R.] "Cadent tears." Shak. 

CADENZA:  A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a piece, commonly just before the final cadence. 

CADER:  See Cadre. 

CADETSHIP:  The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a cadetship.  CADEW; CADEWORM Ca*dew", Cade"worm`, n.  A caddice. See Caddice. 

CADGE:  A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale. 

CADGER:  One who carries hawks on a cadge. 

CADGY:  Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also, wanton. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 

CADI:  An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually the judge of a town or village.  CADIE; CADDIE Cad"ie, Cad"die, n.  A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger. [Written also cady.] Every Scotchman, from the peer to the cadie. Macaulay. 

CADILESKER:  A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originally because his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who are now tried only by their own officers. 

CADILLAC:  A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly for cooking. Johnson. 

CADIS:  A kind of coarse serge. 

CADMEAN:  Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, who was said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters of the alphabet -- Cadmean letters. Cadmean victory, a victory that damages the victors as much as the vanquished; probably referring to the battle in which the soldiers who sprang from the dragon's teeth sown by Cadmus slew each other. 

CADMIA:  An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where zinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine. 

CADMIAN:  See Cadmean. 

CADMIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic sulphide. 

CADMIUM:  A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring in some zinc ores. It is a white metal, both ductile and malleable. Symbol Cd. Atomic weight 111.8. It was discovered by Stromeyer in 1817, who named it from its association with zinc or zinc ore. Cadmium yellow, a compound of cadmium and sulphur, of an intense yellow color, used as a pigment. 

CADRANS:  An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which the angles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing. 

CADRE:  The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff. [Written also cader.] 

CADUCARY:  Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation. 

CADUCEAN:  Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand. 

CADUCEUS:  The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messenger of the gods. It was originally said to be a herald's staff of olive wood, but was afterwards fabled to have two serpents coiled about it, and two wings at the top. 

CADUCIBRANCHIATE:  With temporary gills: -- applied to those Amphibia in which the gills do not remain in adult life. 

CADUCITY:  Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility. [R.] [A] jumble of youth and caducity. Chesterfield. 

CADUCOUS:  Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, or the gills of a tadpole. 

CADUKE:  Perishable; frail; transitory. [Obs.] Hickes. The caduke pleasures of his world. Bp. Fisher. 

CADY:  See Cadie. 

CAECA:  See Cæcum. 

CAECIAS:  A wind from the northeast. Milton. 

CAECILIAN:  A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Cæciliæ or Ophimorpha. See Ophiomorpha. [Written also coecilian.] 

CAELATURA:  Art of producing metal decorative work other than statuary, as reliefs, intaglios, engraving, chasing, etc. 

CAENOZOIC:  See Cenozoic.  CAEN STONE Ca"en stone",  A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen, France. 

CAESAR:  A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Cæsar. Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful ruler. See Kaiser, Kesar. Malborough anticipated the day when he would be servilely flattered and courted by Cæsar on one side and by Louis the Great on the other. Macaulay.  CAESAREAN; CAESARIAN Cæ*sa"re*an, Cæ*sa"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Caesareus, Caesarianus.]  Of or pertaining to Cæsar or the Cæsars; imperial. Cæsarean section (Surg.), the operation of taking a child from the womb by cutting through the walls of the abdomen and uterus; -- so called because Julius Cæsar is reported to have been brought into the world by such an operation. 

CAESARISM:  A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercised by a single person, to whom, as Cæsar or emperor, it has been committed by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or support of such a system of government.  Note: This word came into prominence in the time of Napoleon III., as an expression of the claims and political views of that emperor, and of the politicians of his court. 

CAESIOUS:  Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture of gray. Lindley. 

CAESIUM:  A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called from the two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum. It was the first element discovered by spectrum analysis, and is the most strongly basic and electro-positive substance known. Symbol Cs. Atomic weight 132.6. 

CAESPITOSE:  Same as Cespitose. 

CAESURA:  A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a foot and commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in the middle of a foot. Also, a long syllable on which the cæsural accent rests, or which is used as a foot.  Note: In the following line the cæsura is between study and of. The prop | er stud | y || of | mankind | is man. 

CAESURAL:  Of or pertaining to a cæsura. Cæsural pause, a pause made at a cæsura. 

CAFE:  A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or restaurant where coffee and liquors are served.  CAFENET; CAFENEH Caf"e*net, Caf"e*neh, n. Etym: [Turk. qahveh khaneh coffeehouse.]  A humble inn or house of rest for travelers, where coffee is sold. [Turkey] 

CAFETERIA:  A restaurant or café at which the patrons serve themselves with food kept at a counter, taking the food to small tables to eat. [U. S.] 

CAFFEIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee. Caffeic acid, an acid obtained from coffee tannin, as a yellow crystalline substance, C9H8O4. 

CAFFEINE:  A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained from coffee. It is identical with the alkaloid theine from tea leaves, and with guaranine from guarana. 

CAFFETANNIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee. Caffetannic acid, a variety of tannin obtained from coffee berries, regarded as a glucoside. 

CAFFILA:  See Cafila. 

CAFFRE:  See Kaffir.  CAFILA; CAFILEH Ca"fi*la, Ca"fi*leh, n. Etym: [Ar.]  A caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government caravan; a string of pack horses. 

CAFTAN:  A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown with sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by a belt or sash. 

CAFTAN:  To clothe with a caftan. [R.] The turbaned and caftaned damsel. Sir W. Scott. 

CAG:  See Keg. [Obs.] 

CAGE:  An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; as the cage of a staircase. Gwilt.  4. (Mach.) (a) A skeleton frame to limit the motion of a loose piece, as a ball valve. (b) A wirework strainer, used in connection with pumps and pipes.  5. The box, bucket, or inclosed platform of a lift or elevator; a cagelike structure moving in a shaft.  6. (Mining)  The drum on which the rope is wound in a hoisting whim.  7. (Baseball)  The catcher's wire mask. 

CAGE:  To confine in, or as in, a cage; to shut up or confine. "Caged and starved to death." Cowper. 

CAGED:  Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison. "The caged cloister." Shak. 

CAGELING:  A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird. [Poetic] Tennyson. 

CAGIT:  A king of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the Philippine Islands. 

CAGMAG:  A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

CAGOT:  One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until 1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They are supposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths. 

CAHENSLYISM:  A plan proposed to the Pope in 1891 by P. P. Cahensly, a member of the German parliament, to divide the foreign-born population of the United States, for ecclesiastical purposes, according to European nationalities, and to appoint bishops and priests of like race and speaking the same language as the majority of the members of a diocese or congregation. This plan was successfully opposed by the American party in the Church. 

CAHIER:  The root of an American shrub (Chiococca racemosa), found as far north as Florida Keys, from which cahincic acid is obtained; also, the root of the South American Chiococca anguifuga, a celebrated antidote for snake poison. 

CAHINCIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of a species of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. recemosa; as, cahincic acid. 

CAHOOT:  Partnership; as to go in cahoot with a person. [Slang, southwestern U. S.] Bartlett. 

CAIMACAM:  The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey. 

CAIMAN:  See Cayman. 

CAINOZOIC:  (Geol.) See Cenozic. 

CAIQUE:  A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a Levantine vessel of larger size.  CA IRA Ça"i*ra". Etym: [F. ça ira, ça ira, les aristocrates à la lanterne, it shall go on, it shall go on, [hang]the arictocrats to the lantern (lamp-post).]  The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution. 

CAIRD:  A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar. [Prov. Eng.] 

CAIRNGORMSTONE:  A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, or crystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, in Scotland. 

CAISSON:  A sunk panel of ceilings or soffits. Pneumatic caisson (Engin.), a caisson, closed at the top but open at the bottom, and resting upon the ground under water. The pressure of air forced into the caisson keeps the water out. Men and materials are admitted to the interior through an air lock. See Lock.  CAISSON DISEASE Cais"son dis*ease". (Med.)  A disease frequently induced by remaining for some time in an atmosphere of high pressure, as in caissons, diving bells, etc. It is characterized by neuralgic pains and paralytic symptoms. It is variously explained, most probably as due to congestion of internal organs with subsequent stasis of the blood. 

CAITIFF:  A captive; a prisoner. [Obs.] Avarice doth tyrannize over her caitiff and slave. Holland.  2. A wretched or unfortunate man. [Obs.] Chaucer.  3. A mean, despicable person; one whose character meanness and wickedness meet.  Note: The deep-felt conviction of men that slavery breaks down the moral character . . . speaks out with . . . distinctness in the change of meaning which caitiff has undergone signifying as it now does, one of a base, abject disposition, while there was a time when it had nothing of this in it. Trench. 

CAJEPUT:  See Cajuput. 

CAJOLE:  To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle. I am not about to cajole or flatter you into a reception of my views. F. W. Robertson.  Syn.  -- To flatter; wheedle; delude; coax; entrap. 

CAJOLEMENT:  The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery. Coleridge. 

CAJOLER:  A flatterer; a wheedler. 

CAJOLERY:  A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery. "Infamous cajoleries." Evelyn. 

CAJUN:  In Louisiana, a person reputed to be Acadian French descent. 

CAJUPUT:  A highly stimulating volatile infammable oil, distilled from the leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It is greenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste. 

CAJUPUTENE:  A colorlees or greenish oil extracted from cajuput. 

CAKE:  To form into a cake, or mass. 

CAKE:  To concrete or consolidate into a hard mass, as dough in an oven; to coagulate. Clotted blood that caked within. Addison. 

CAKE:  To cackle as a goose. [Prov. Eng.]  CAKING COAL Cak"ing coal`.  See Coal. 

CAL:  Wolfram, an ore of tungsten. Simmonds. 

CALABAR:  A district on the west coast of Africa. Calabar bean, The of a climbing legumious plant (Physostigma venenosum), a native of tropical Africa. It is highly poisonous. It is used to produce contraction of the pupil of the eye; also in tetanus, neuralgia, and rheumatic diseases; -- called also ordeal bean, being used by the negroes in trials for witchcraft. 

CALABARINE:  An alkaloid resembing physostigmine and occurring with it in the calabar bean. 

CALABOOSE:  A prison; a jail. [Local, U. S.] 

CALABOZO:  A jail. See Calaboose. 

CALADE:  A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches. 

CALADIUM:  A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species are cultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiously blotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food. 

CALAITE:  A mineral. See Turquoise. 

CALAMANCO:  A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked. "a gay calamanco waistcoat." Tatler.  CALAMANDER WOOD Cal"a*man`der wood.  A valuable furniture wood from India and Ceylon, of a hazel- brown color, with black stripes, very hard in texture. It is a species of ebony, and is obtained from the Diospyros qusesita. Called also Coromandel wood.  CALAMAR; CALAMARY Cal"a*mar, Cal"a*ma*ry, n. Etym: [LL. calamarium inkstand, fr. L. calamus a reed pen: cf. F. calmar, calemar, pen case, calamar.] (Zoöl.)  A cephalopod, belonging to the genus Loligo and related genera. There are many species. They have a sack of inklike fluid which they discharge from the siphon tube, when pursued or alarmed, in order to confuse their enemies. Their shell is a thin horny plate, within the flesh of back, shaped very much like a quill pen. In America they are called squids. See Squid. 

CALAMBAC:  A fragrant wood; agalloch. 

CALAMBOUR:  A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottled color, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac; -- used by cabinetmakers. 

CALAMIFEROUS:  Producing reeds; reedy. 

CALAMINE:  A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.  Note: The name was formerly applied to both the carbonate and silicate of zinc each of which is valuabic as an ore; but it is now usually restricted to the latter, the former being called smithsonite. 

CALAMINT:  A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family, esp. the C. Nepela and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme. 

CALAMIST:  One who plays upon a reed or pipe. [Obs.] Blount. 

CALAMISTRATE:  To curl or friz, as the hair. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

CALAMISTRATION:  The act or process of curling the hair. [Obs.] burton. 

CALAMISTRUM:  A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs of certain spiders (Ciniflonidæ), used to curl certain fibers in the construction of their webs. 

CALAMITE:  A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general form of plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rush family) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having the stem more or less woody within. See Acrogen, and Asterophyllite. 

CALAMUS:  The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family. It furnishes the common rattan. See Rattan, and Dragon's blood.  2. (Bot.)  A species of Acorus (A. calamus), commonly called calamus, or sweet flag. The root has a pungent, aromatic taste, and is used in medicine as a stomachic; the leaves have an aromatic odor, and were formerly used instead of rushes to strew on floors.  3. (Zoöl.)  The horny basal portion of a feather; the barrel or quill. 

CALANDO:  (Mus.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness. 

CALASH:  A human skull reported, by Prof. J. D. Whitney, as found in 1886 in a Tertiary auriferous gravel deposit, lying below a bed of black lava, in Calaveras County, California. It is regarded as very doubtful whether the skull really belonged to the deposit in which it was found. If it did, it indicates an unprecedented antiquity for human beings of an advanced type. 

CALAVERITE:  A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; a telluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California. 

CALCANEAL:  Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries. 

CALCANEUM:  One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the great bone of the heel; -- called also fibulare. 

CALCAR:  A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit. Ure. 

CALCAR:  A hollow tube or spur at the base of a petal or corolla.  2. (Zoöl.)  A slender bony process from the ankle joint of bats, which helps to support the posterior part of the web, in flight.  3. (Anat.) (a) A spur, or spurlike prominence. (b) A curved ridge in the floor of the leteral ventricle of the brain; the calcar avis, hippocampus minor, or ergot.  CALCARATE; CALCARATED Cal"ca*rate, Cal"ca*ra`ted, a. Etym: [LL. calcaratus, fr. L. calcar. See 2d Calcar.]  1. (Bot.)  Having a spur, as the flower of the toadflax and larkspur; spurred. Gray.  2. (Zoöl.)  Armed with a spur.  CALCAREO-ARGILLACEOUS Cal*ca"re*o-ar`gil*la"ceous, a.  consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceous earths.  CALCAREO-BITUMINOUS Cal*ca"re*o-bi*tu"mi*nous, a.  Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen. Lyell.  CALCAREO-SILICEOUS Cal*ca"re*o-si*li"ceous, a.  Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths. 

CALCAREOUS:  Partaking of the nature ofcalcite or calcium carbonate; consisting of, or containg, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime. Clcareous spar. See as Calcite. 

CALCAREOUSNESS:  Quality of being calcareous. 

CALCARIFEROUS:  Lime-yielding; calciferous 

CALCARINE:  Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain. 

CALCAVELLA:  A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district of Carcavelhos. [Written also Calcavellos or Carcavelhos.] 

CALCEATED:  Fitted with, or wearing, shoes. Johnson. 

CALCED:  Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or barefooted; as the calced Carmelites. 

CALCEDON:  A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.  CALCEDONIC; CALCEDONIAN Cal`ce*don"ic, Cal`ce*do"ni*an, a.  See Chalcedonic. 

CALCEIFORM:  Shaped like a plipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper; calceolate. 

CALCEOLARIA:  A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plant, biought from South America; slipperwort. It has a yellow or purple flower, often spotted or striped, the shape of which suggests its name. 

CALCEOLATE:  Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform. 

CALCES:  See Calx. 

CALCIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime. 

CALCIFEROUS:  Bearing producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime. Calciferouse epoch (Geol.), and epoch in the American lower Silurian system, immediately succeeding the Cambrian period. The name alludes to the peculiar mixture of calcareous and siliceous characteristics in many of the beds. See the Diagram under Grology. 

CALCIFIC:  Calciferous. Specifically: (Zoöl.) of or pertaining to hte portion of the which forms the eggshell in birds and reptiles. Huxley. 

CALCIFICATION:  The process of chenge into a stony or calcareous substance by the deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of bone and teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue. 

CALCIFIED:  Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts; calcareous. 

CALCIFORM:  In the form of chalk or lime. 

CALCIFY:  To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion of salts of lime. 

CALCIFY:  To become changed into a stony or calcareous condition, in lime is a principal ingredient, as in the formation of teeth. 

CALCIGENOUS:  Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance on being oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc. 

CALCIGEROUS:  Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cells of the teeth. 

CALCIMINE:  A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering of a room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zinc white, and water. [Also spelt kalsomine.] 

CALCIMINE:  To wash or cover with calcimine; as, to calcimine walls. 

CALCIMINER:  One who calcimines. 

CALCINABLE:  That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil. 

CALCINATE:  To calcine. [R.] 

CALCINATION:  The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or rendering it friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of some volatile matter, as when carbonic and acid is expelled from carbonate of calcium in the burning of limestone in order to make lime.  2. The act or process of reducing a metal to an oxide or metallic calx; oxidation. 

CALCINATORY:  A vessel used in calcination. 

CALCINE:  To be convereted into a powder or friable substance, or into a calx, by the action of heat. "Calcining without fusion" Newton. 

CALCINER:  One who, or that which, calcines. 

CALCISPONGIAE:  An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. See Porifera. 

CALCITE:  Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime. It is rhombohedral in its crystallization, and thus distinguished from aragonite. It includes common limestone, chalk, and marble. Called also calc-spar and calcareous spar.  Note: Argentine is a pearly lamellar variety; aphrite is foliated or chalklike; dogtooth spar, a form in acute rhombohedral or scalenohedral crystals; calc-sinter and calc-tufa are lose or porous varieties formed in caverns or wet grounds from calcareous deposits; agaric mineral is a soft, white friable variety of similar origin; stalaclite and stalagmite are varieties formed from the drillings in caverns. Iceland spar is a transparent variety, exhibiting the strong double refraction of the species, and hence is called doubly refracting spar. 

CALCITRANT:  Kicking. Hence: Stubborn; refractory. 

CALCITRATE:  To kick. 

CALCITRATION:  Act of kicking. 

CALCIUM:  An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygen forms lime. It is of a pale yellow color, tenacious, and malleable. It is a member of the alkaline earth group of elements. Atomic weight 40. Symbol Ca.  Note: Calcium is widely and abundantly disseminated, as in its compounds calcium carbonate or limestone, calcium sulphate or gypsum, calcium fluoride or fluor spar, calcium phosphate or apatite. Calcium light, an intense light produced by the incandescence of a stick or ball of lime in the flame of a combination of oxygen and hydrogen gases, or of oxygen and coal gas; -- called also Drummond light. 

CALCIVOROUS:  Eroding, or eating into, limestone. 

CALCOGRAPHER:  One who practices calcography.  CALCOGRAPHIC; CALCOGRAPHICAL Cal`co*graph"ic, Cal`co*graph"ic*al, a.  Relating to, or in the style of, calcography. 

CALCOGRAPHY:  The art of drawing with chalk.  CALC-SINTER Calc"-sin`ter, n. Etym: [G. kalk (L. calx, calcis) lime + E. sinter.]  See under Calcite.  CALC-SPAR Calc"-spar`, n. Etym: [G. kalk (L. calx) lime E. spar.]  Same as Calcite.  CALC-TUFA Calc"-tu`fa, n. Etym: [G. kalk (l. calx) lime + E. tufa.]  See under Calcite. 

CALCULABLE:  That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation. 

CALCULARY:  Of or pertaining to calculi. 

CALCULARY:  A congeries of little stony knots found in the pulp of the pear and other fruits. 

CALCULATE:  To make a calculation; to forecast caonsequences; to estimate; to compute. The strong passions, whether good or bad, never calculate. F. W. Robertson. 

CALCULATING:  The act or process of making mathematical computations or of estimating results. 

CALCULATIVE:  Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation. Long habits of calculative dealings. Burke. 

CALCULATOR:  One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers the force and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate of the effects. Ambition is no exact calculator. Burke. 

CALCULATORY:  Belonging to calculation. Sherwood. 

CALCULE:  Reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Howell. 

CALCULE:  To calculate [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CALCULI:  See Calculus. 

CALCULUS:  Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but most frequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passages connected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.  2. (Math.)  A method of computation; any process of reasoning by the use of symbols; any branch of mathematics that may involve calculation. Barycentric calculus, a method of treating geometry by defining a point as the center of gravity of certain other points to which coëfficients or weights are ascribed.  -- Calculus of functions, that branch of mathematics which treats of the forms of functions that shall satisfy given conditions.  -- Calculus of operations, that branch of mathematical logic that treats of all operations that satisfy given conditions.  -- Calculus of probabilities, the science that treats of the computation of the probabilities of events, or the application of numbers to chance.  -- Calculus of variations, a branch of mathematics in which the laws of dependence which bind the variable quantities together are themselves subject to change.  -- Differential calculus, a method of investigating mathematical questions by using the ratio of certain indefinitely small quantities called differentials. The problems are primarily of this form: to find how the change in some variable quantity alters at each instant the value of a quantity dependent upon it.  -- Exponential calculus, that part of algebra which treats of exponents.  -- Imaginary calculus, a method of investigating the relations of real or imaginary quantities by the use of the imaginary symbols and quantities of algebra.  -- Integral calculus, a method which in the reverse of the differential, the primary object of which is to learn from the known ratio of the indefinitely small changes of two or more magnitudes, the relation of the magnitudes themselves, or, in other words, from having the differential of an algebraic expression to find the expression itself. 

CALDRON:  A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron. [Written also cauldron.] "Caldrons of boiling oil." Prescott. 

CALECHE:  See Calash. 

CALEDONIA:  The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry. 

CALEDONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Caledonia or Scotland. 

CALEDONITE:  A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts of Caledonia or Scotland. 

CALEFACIENT:  Making warm; heating. [R.] 

CALEFACIENT:  A substance that excites warmth in the parts to which it is applied, as mustard. 

CALEFACTIVE:  See Calefactory. [R.] 

CALEFACTOR:  A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc. 

CALEFACTORY:  Making hot; producing or communicating heat. 

CALEFACTORY:  An apartment in a monastery, warmed and used as a sitting room.  2. A hollow sphere of metal, filled with hot water, or a chafing dish, placed on the altar in cold weather for the priest to warm his hands with. 

CALEFY:  To make warm or hot. 

CALEFY:  To grow hot or warm. Sir T. Browne. 

CALEMBOUR:  A pun. 

CALENDAR:  A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints' days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly according to the varying date of Easter.  3. An orderly list or enumeration of persons, things, or events; a schedule; as, a calendar of state papers; a calendar of bills presented in a legislative assemblly; a calendar of causes arranged for trial in court; a calendar of a college or an academy.  Note: Shepherds of people had need know the calendars of tempests of state. Bacon. Calendar clock, one that shows the days of the week and month.  -- Calendar month. See under Month.  -- French Republican calendar. See under Vendémiaire.  -- Gregorian calendar, Julian calendar, Perpetual calendar. See under Gregorian, Julian, and Perpetual. 

CALENDAR:  To enter or write in a calendar; to register. Waterhouse. 

CALENDARIAL:  Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar. 

CALENDARY:  Calendarial. [Obs.] 

CALENDER:  To press between rollers for the purpose of making smooth and glossy, or wavy, as woolen and silk stuffs, linens, paper, etc. Ure. 

CALENDER:  One of a sect or order of fantastically dressed or painted dervishes. 

CALENDOGRAPHER:  One who makes calendars. [R.] 

CALENDRER:  A person who calenders cloth; a calender.  CALENDRIC; CALENDRICAL Ca*len"dric, Ca*len"dric*al, a.,  Of or pertaining to a calendar. 

CALENDS:  The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar. [Written also kalends.] The Greek calends, a time that will never come, as the Greeks had no calends. 

CALENDULA:  A genus of composite herbaceous plants. One species, Calendula officinalis, is the common marigold, and was supposed to blossom on the calends of every month, whence the name. 

CALENDULIN:  A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from the marigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin. 

CALENTURE:  A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics; esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, among sailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the sea to be a green field, and to throw himself into it. 

CALENTURE:  To see as in the delirium of one affected with calenture. [Poetic] Hath fed on pageants floating through the air Or calentures in depths of limpid flood. Wordsworth. 

CALESCENCE:  Growing warmth; increasing heat. 

CALF:  The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee. Calf's-foot jelly, jelly made from the feet of calves. The gelatinous matter of the feet is extracted by boiling, and is flavored with sugar, essences, etc. 

CALFSKIN:  The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin. 

CALI:  The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu. [Written also Kali.]  CALIBER; CALIBRE Cal"i*ber, Cal"ibre, n. Etym: [F. calibre, perh. fr. L. qualibra of what pound, of what weight; hence, of what size, applied first to a ball or bullet; cf. also Ar. qalib model, mold. Cf. Calipers, Calivere.]  1. (Gunnery)  The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm will carry; as, an 8 inch gun, a 12-pounder, a 44 caliber. The caliber of empty tubes. Reid. A battery composed of three guns of small caliber. Prescott.  Note: The caliber of firearms is expressed in various ways. Cannon are often designated by the weight of a solid spherical shot that will fit the bore; as, a 12-pounder; pieces of ordnance that project shell or hollow shot are designated by the diameter of their bore; as, a 12 inch mortar or a 14 inch shell gun; small arms are designated by hundredths of an inch expressed decimally; as, a rifle of .44 inch caliber.  2. The diameter of round or cylindrical body, as of a bullet or column.  3. Fig.: Capacity or compass of mind. Burke. Caliber compasses. See Calipers.  -- Caliber rule, a gunner's calipers, an instrument having two scales arranged to determine a ball's weight from its diameter, and conversely.  -- A ship's caliber, the weight of her armament. 

CALIBRATE:  To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also, more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of the various standards or graduated instruments. 

CALIBRATION:  The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of a thermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees; also, more generally, the determination of the true value of the spaces in any graduated instrument. 

CALICE:  See Chalice. 

CALICO:  Made of, or having the apperance of, calico; -- often applied to an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of a color strikingly different from its main color. [Colloq. U. S.] 

CALICOBACK:  Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used for calycular, calyculate. 

CALID:  Hot; burning; ardent. [Obs.] Bailey. 

CALIDITY:  Heat. [Obs.] 

CALIDUCT:  A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam. Subterranean caliducts have been introduced. Evelyn.  CALIF; CALIFATE Ca"lif, n., Cal"i*fate, n., etc.  Same as Caliph, Caliphate, etc.  CALIFORNIA JACK Cal`i*for"ni*a jack".  A game at cards, a modification of seven-up, or all fours. 

CALIFORNIAN:  Of or pertaining to California.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of California. 

CALIGATION:  Dimness; cloudiness. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

CALIGINOSITY:  Darkness. [R.] G. Eliot. 

CALIGINOUS:  Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure. [R.] Blount. The caliginous regions of the air. Hallywell. -- Ca*lig"i*nous*ly, adv.  -- Ca*lig"i*nous*ness, n. 

CALIGO:  Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on the cornea; also, the speck itself. 

CALIGRAPHIC:  See Calligraphic. 

CALIGRAPHY:  See Caligraphy. 

CALIN:  An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make tea canisters. 

CALIPASH:  A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell. It contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a dull greenish tinge, much esteemed as a delicacy in preparations of turtle. 

CALIPEE:  A part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell. It contains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a light yellowish color, much esteemed as a delicacy. Thackeray. 

CALIPERS:  An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers or compasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thickness of bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts, shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms, tubes, etc.; -- called also caliper compasses, or caliber compasses. Caliper square, a draughtsman's or mechanic's square, having a graduated bar and adjustable jaw or jaws. Knight.  -- Vernier calipers. See Vernier. 

CALIPH:  Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of Turkey, [Writting also calif.] 

CALIPHATE:  The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of the caliphs. 

CALIPPIC:  Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer. Calippic period, a period of seventy-six years, proposed by Calippus, as an improvement on the Metonic cycle, since the 6940 days of the Metonic cycle exceeded 19 years by about a quarter of a day, and exceeded 235 lunations by something more.  CALISAYA BARK Cal`i*sa"ya bark.  A valuable kind of Peruvian bark obtained from the Cinchona Calisaya, and other closely related species. 

CALISTHENEUM:  A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women and children. 

CALISTHENIC:  Of or pertaining to calisthenics. 

CALISTHENICS:  The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the body and limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics. 

CALIVER:  An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originally a gun having a regular size of bore. [Obs.] Shak. 

CALIX:  A cup. See Calyx. 

CALK:  To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red or black chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines, so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which it is laid or held. [Writting also calque] 

CALKIN:  A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1. 

CALKING:  The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or of furnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing. Calking iron, a tool like a chisel, used in calking ships, tightening seams in ironwork, etc. Their left hand does the calking iron guide. Dryden. 

CALL:  An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as its pastor.  4. A requirement or appeal arising from the circumstances of the case; a moral requirement or appeal. Dependence is a perpetual call upon hummanity. Addison. Running into danger without any call of duty. Macaulay.  5. A divine vocation or summons. St. Paul himself believed he did well, and that he had a call to it, when he persecuted the Christians. Locke.  6. Vocation; employment.  Note: [In this sense, calling is generally used.]  7. A short visit; as, to make a call on a neighbor; also, the daily coming of a tradesman to solicit orders. The baker's punctual call. Cowper.  8. (Hunting)  A note blown on the horn to encourage the hounds.  9. (Naut.)  A whistle or pipe, used by the boatswain and his mate, to summon the sailors to duty.  10. (Fowling)  The cry of a bird; also a noise or cry in imitation of a bird; or a pipe to call birds by imitating their note or cry.  11. (Amer. Land Law)  A reference to, or statement of, an object, course, distance, or other matter of description in a survey or grant reguiring or calling for a carresponding object, etc., on the land.  12. The privilege to demand the delivery of stock, grain, or any commodity, at a fixed, price, at or within a certain time agreed on. [Brokers' Cant]  13. See Assessment, 4. At call, or On call, liable to be demanded at any moment without previous notice; as money on deposit.  -- Call bird, a bird taught to allure others into a snare.  -- Call boy (a) A boy who calls the actors in a theater; a boy who transmits the orders of the captain of a vessel to the engineer, helmsman, etc. (b) A waiting boy who answers a cal, or cames at the ringing of a bell; a bell boy.  -- Call note, the note naturally used by the male bird to call the female. It is artifically applied by birdcatchers as a decoy. Latham.  -- Call of the house (Legislative Bodies), a calling over the names of members, to discover who is absent, or for other purposes; a calling of names with a view to obtaining the ayes and noes from the persons named.  -- Call to the bar, admission to practice in the courts. 

CALLA:  A genus of plants, of the order Araceæ.  Note: The common Calla of cultivation is Richardia Africana, belonging to another genus of the same order. Its large spathe is pure white, surrounding a fleshy spike, which is covered with minute apetalous flowers. 

CALLAT:  Same as Callet. [Obs.] A callat of boundless tongue. Shak. 

CALLE:  A kind of head covering; a caul. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CALLER:  One who calls. 

CALLET:  A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip. [Obs.] [Written also callat.] 

CALLET:  To rail or scold. [Obs.] Brathwait. 

CALLID:  Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty. [R.] 

CALLIDITY:  Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness. [R.] Her eagly-eyed callidity. C. Smart. 

CALLIGRAPHER:  One skilled in calligraphy; a good penman.  CALLIGRAPHIC; CALLIGRAPHICAL Cal`li*graph"ic, Cal`li*graph"ic*al, a., Etym: [Gr. calligraphique.]  Of or pertaining to calligraphy. Excellence in the calligraphic act. T. Warton. 

CALLIGRAPHIST:  A calligrapher 

CALLIGRAPHY:  Fair or elegant penmanship. 

CALLIOPE:  The Muse that presides over eloquence and heroic poetry; mother of Orpheus, and chief of the nine Muses.  2. (Astron.)  One of the astreids. See Solar.  3. A musical instrument consisting of series of steam whistles, toned to the notes of the scale, and played by keys arranged like those of an organ. It is sometimes attached to steamboat boilers.  4. (Zoöl.)  A beautuful species of humming bird (Stellula Calliope) of California and adjacent regions. 

CALLIOPSIS:  A popular name given to a few species of the genus Careopsis, especially to C. tinctoria of Arkansas. 

CALLIPASH:  See Calipash. 

CALLIPEE:  See Calipee. 

CALLIPERS:  See Calipers. 

CALLISECTION:  Painless vivisection; -- opposed to sentisection. B. G. Wilder.  CALLISTHENIC; CALLISTHENICS Cal`lis*then"ic, a., Cal`lis*then"ics, n.  See Calisthenic, Calisthenics. 

CALLITHUMP:  A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tin horus, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; a charivari. [U. S.] 

CALLITHUMPIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a callithump. [U. S.] 

CALLOSAN:  Of the callosum. 

CALLOSE:  Furnished with protuberant or hardened spots. 

CALLOSITY:  A hard or thickened spot or protuberance; a hardening and thickening of the skin or bark of a part, eps. as a result of continued pressure or friction. 

CALLOSUM:  The great band commissural fibers which unites the two cerebral hemispheres. See corpus callosum, under Carpus. 

CALLOT:  A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte. B. Jonson. 

CALLOW:  A kind of duck. See Old squaw. 

CALLUS:  The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exuded at the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous in consistence, but is ultimately converted into true bone and unites the fragments into a single piece.  2. (Hort.)  The new formation over the end of a cutting, before it puts out rootlets. 

CALM:  Freodom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or abeence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or waves; tranquility; stilness; quiet; serenity. The wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Mark. iv. 39. A calm before a storm is commonly a peace of a man's own making. South. 

CALMER:  One who, or that which, makes calm. 

CALMLY:  In a calm manner. The gentle stream which calmly flows. Denham. 

CALMNESS:  The state of quality of being calm; quietness; tranquillity; self-repose. The gentle calmness of the flood. Denham. Hes calmness was the repose of conscious power. E. Everett.  Syn.  -- Quietness; quietude; stillness; tranquillity; serenity; repose; composure; sedateness; placidity. 

CALMUCKS:  ; sing. Calmuck. A branch of the Mongolian race inbabiting parts of the Russian and Chinese empires; also (sing.), the language of the Calmucks. [Written also Kalmucks.] 

CALMY:  Tranquil; peaceful; calm. [Poet.] "A still and calmy day" Spenser. 

CALOMEL:  Mild chloride of mercury, Hg 

CALORESCENCE:  The conversion of obscure radiant heat info kight; the transmutation of rays of heat into others of higher refrangibility. Tyndall. 

CALORIC:  The principle of heat, or the agent to which the phenomena of heat and combustion were formerly ascribed; -- not now used in scientific nomenclature, but sometimes used as a general term for heat. Caloric expands all bodies. Henry. 

CALORIC:  Of or pertaining to caloric. Caloric engine, a kind of engine operated air. 

CALORICITY:  A faculty in animals of developing and preserving the heat nesessary to life, that is, the animal heat. 

CALORIDUCT:  A tube or duct for conducting heat; a caliduct. 

CALORIE:  The unit of heat according to the Frensc standard; the amount of heat requires to raise the temperature of one kilogram (sometimes, one gram) of water one degree centigrade, or from 0Foot pound. 

CALORIFACIENT:  See Calorificient. 

CALORIFERE:  An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially by means of hot water circulating in tubes. 

CALORIFIANT:  See Calorificient. 

CALORIFIC:  Possessing the quality of producing heat; heating. Calorific rays, the invisible, heating rays which emanate from the sum, and burning and heated bodies. 

CALORIFICATION:  Production of heat, esp. animal heat. 

CALORIFICIENT:  Having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- applied to foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed to give rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation. 

CALORIMETER:  An apparatus for measuring the amount of heat contained in bodies or developed by some mechanical or chemical process, as friction, chemical combination, combustion, etc.  2. (Engineering)  An apparatus for measuring the proportion of unevaporated water contained in steam. 

CALORIMETRIC:  Of or pertaining to process of using the calorimeter. Satisfactory calorimetric results. Nichol. 

CALORIMETRY:  Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies. 

CALORIMOTOR:  A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, and producing powerful heating effects. 

CALORISATOR:  An apparatus used in beet-sugar factories to heat the juice in order to aid the diffusion.  CALOTTE; CALLOT Ca*lotte", Cal"lot, n. Etym: [F. calotte, dim. of cale a sort of flat cap. Cf. Caul.]  A close cap without visor or brim. Especially: (a) Such a cap, worn by English serjeants at law. (b) Such a cap, worn by the French cavalry under their helmets. (c) Such a cap, worn by the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church. To assume the calotte, to become a priest. 

CALOTYPE:  A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitized with iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor, Mr. Fox. Talbot. 

CALOYER:  A monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse of the rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt. Athos. 

CALQUE:  See 2d Calk, v. t.  CALTROP; CALTRAP Cal"trop, Cal"trap, n. Etym: [OE. calketrappe, calletrappe, caltor (in both senses), fr. AS. collræppe, calcetreppe, sort of thistle; cf. F. chaussetrape star thistle, trap, It. calcatreppo, calcatreppolo, star thistle. Perh. from L. calx heel + the same word as E. trap. See 1st Trap.]  1. (Bot.)  A genus of herbaceous plants (Tribulus) of the order Zygophylleæ, having a hard several-celled fruit, armed with stout spines, and resembling the military instrument of the same name. The species grow in warm countries, and are often very annoying to cattle.  2. (Mil.)  An instrument with four iron points, so disposed that, any three of them being on the ground, the other projects upward. They are scattered on the ground where an enemy's cavalry are to pass, to impede their progress by endangering the horses' feet. 

CALUMBA:  The root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique. It has an unpleasantly bitter taste, and is used as a tonic and antiseptic. [Written also colombo, columbo, and calombo.] American calumba, the Frasera Carolinensis, also called American gentian. Its root has been used in medicine as bitter tonic in place of calumba. 

CALUMBIN:  A bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substance from the calumba root. [Written also colombin, and columbin] 

CALUMET:  A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smoking tobacco. The bowl is usually made of soft red stone, and the tube is a long reed often ornamented with feathers. Smoked the calumet, the Peace pipe, As a signal to the nations. Lowgfellow.  Note: The calumet is used as a symbol of peace. To accept the calumet is to agree to terms of peace, and to refuse it is to reject them. The calumet of peace is used to seal or ratify contracts and alliances, and as an evidence to strangers that they are welcome. 

CALUMNIATE:  To accuse falsely and maliciously of a crime or offense, or of something disreputable; to slander; to libel. Hatred unto the truth did always falsely report and calumniate all godly men's doings. Strype. Syn.  -- To asperse; slander; defame; vilify; traduce; belie; bespatter; blacken; libel. See Asperse. 

CALUMNIATE:  To propagate evil reports with a design to injure the reputation of another; to make purposely false charges of some offense or crime. 

CALUMNIATION:  False accusation of crime or offense, or a malicious and false representation of the words or actions of another, with a view to injure his good name. The calumniation of her principal counselors. Bacon. 

CALUMNIATOR:  One who calumniates.  Syn.  -- Slanderer; defamer; libeler; traducer. 

CALUMNIATORY:  Containing calumny; slanderous. Montagu. 

CALUMNIOUS:  Containing or implying calumny; false, malicious, and injurious to reputation; slanderous; as, calumnious reports. Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes. Shak.  Syn: Slanderous; defamatory; scurrilous; opprobrious; derogatory; libelous; abusive.  Syn: -- Ca*lum"ni*ous*ly, adv.  -- Ca*lum"ni*ous*ness, n. 

CALUMNY:  False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made or reported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation; slander; detraction. "Infamouse calumnies." Motley. Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Shak. 

CALVARIA:  The bones of the cranium; more especially, the bones of the domelike upper portion. 

CALVARY:  A cross, set upon three steps; -- more properly called cross calvary. 

CALVER:  To bear, or be susceptible of, being calvered; as, grayling's flesh will calver. Catton. 

CALVESSNOUT:  Snapdragon. 

CALVINISM:  The theological tenets or doctrines of John Calvin (a French theologian and reformer of the 16th century) and his followers, or of the so-called calvinistic churches.  Note: The distinguishing doctrines of this system, usually termed the five points of Calvinism, are original sin or total depravity, election or predestination, particular redemption, effectual calling, and the perseverance of the saints. It has been subject to many variations and modifications in different churches and at various times. 

CALVINIST:  A follower of Calvin; a believer in Calvinism.  CALVINISTIC; CALVINISTICAL Cal`vin*is"tic, Cal`vin*is"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to Calvin, or Calvinism; following Calvin; accepting or Teaching Calvinism. "Calvinistic training." Lowell. 

CALVINIZE:  To convert to Calvinism. 

CALVISH:  Like a calf; stupid. Sheldon. 

CALX:  Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- applied to a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the French botanist Candolle. 

CALYCIFORM:  Having the form or appearance of a calyx.  CALYCINAL; CALYCINE Ca*lyc"i*nal, Cal"y*cine, a. (Bot.)  Pertaining to a calyx; having the nature of a calyx. 

CALYCLE:  A row of small bracts, at the base of the calyx, on the outside. 

CALYCLED:  Calyculate. 

CALYCOZOA:  A group of acalephs of which Lucernaria is the type. The body is cup-shaped with eight marginal lobes bearing clavate tentacles. An aboral sucker serves for attachment. The interior is divided into four large compartments. See Lucernarida. 

CALYCULAR:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the bracts of a calycle.  CALYCULATE; CALYCULATED Ca*lyc"u*late, Ca*lyc"u*la`ted, a. (Bot.)  Having a set of bracts resembling a calyx. 

CALYMENE:  A genus of trilobites characteristic of the Silurian age. 

CALYON:  Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc. Haliwell. 

CALYPSO:  A small and beautiful species of orchid, having a flower variegated with purple, pink, and yellow. It grows in cold and wet localities in the northern part of the United States. The Calypso borealis is the only orchid which reaches 68º N. 

CALYPTRA:  A little hood or veil, resembling an extinguisher in form and position, covering each of the small flaskike capsules which contain the spores of mosses; also, any similar covering body. 

CALYPTRIFORM:  Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher. 

CALYX:  The covering of a flower. See Flower.  Note: The calyx is usually green and foliaceous, but becomes delicate and petaloid in such flowers as the anemone and the four-o'clock. Each leaf of the calyx is called a sepal.  2. (Anat.)  A cuplike division of the pelvis of the kidney, which surrounds one or more of the renal papilæ. 

CALZOONS:  Drawers. [Obs.] 

CAM:  Crooked. [Obs.] 

CAMAIEU:  Painting in shades of one color; monochrome. Mollett. 

CAMAIL:  A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or other headpiece.  2. A hood of other material than mail; esp. (Eccl.), a hood worn in church services, -- the amice, or the like.  CAMARA; CAMARA DOS PARES; CAMARADOS DEPUTADOS Ca"ma*ra, Ca"ma*ra dos pares, Ca"ma*ra*dos deputados, n. [Pg.]  Chamber; house; -- used in Ca"ma*ra dos Pa"res, and Ca"ma*ra dos De`pu*ta"dos. See Legislature. 

CAMARADERIE:  Comradeship and loyalty.  The spirit of camaraderie is strong among these riders of the plains. W. A. Fraser. 

CAMARASAURUS:  A genus of gigantic American Jurassic dinosaurs, having large cavities in the bodies of the dorsal vertebræ. 

CAMASS:  A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) of northwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food by the Indians. [Written also camas, cammas, and quamash.]  Note: The Eastern cammass is Camassia Fraseri. 

CAMBER:  An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has a high camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck).  2. (Arch.)  An upward concavity in the under side of a beam, girder, or lintel; also, a slight upward concavity in a straight arch. See Hogback. Camber arch (Arch.), an arch whose intrados, though apparently straight, has a slightly concave curve upward.  -- Camber beam (Arch.), a beam whose under side has a concave curve upward. 

CAMBER:  To cut bend to an upward curve; to construct, as a deck, with an upward curve. 

CAMBER:  To curve upward. 

CAMBERKEELED:  Having the keel arched upwards, but not actually hogged; -- said of a ship. 

CAMBIAL:  Belonging to exchanges in commerce; of exchange. [R.] 

CAMBIST:  A banker; a money changer or broker; one who deals in bills of exchange, or who is skilled in the science of exchange. 

CAMBISTRY:  The science of exchange, weight, measures, etc. 

CAMBIUM:  A series of formative cells lying outside of the wood proper and inside of the inner bark. The growth of new wood takes place in the cambium, which is very soft.  2. (Med.)  A fancied nutritive juice, formerly supposed to orgiginate in the blood, to repair losses of the system, and to promote its increase. Dunglison. 

CAMBLET:  See Camlet. 

CAMBOGE:  See Gamboge. 

CAMBOOSE:  See Caboose. 

CAMBRASINE:  A kind of linen cloth made in Egypt, and so named from its resemblance to cambric. 

CAMBREL:  See Gambrel, n., 2. Wright. 

CAMBRIA:  The ancient Latin name of Wales. It is used by modern poets. 

CAMBRIAN:  Of or pertaining to Cambria or Wales.  2. (Geol.)  Of or pertaining to the lowest subdivision of the rocks of the Silurian or Molluscan age; -- sometimes described as inferior to the Silurian. It is named from its development in Cambria or Wales. See the Diagram under Geology. 

CAMBRIAN:  The Cambrian formation. 

CAMBRIC:  A Welshman. 

CAME:  imp. of Come. 

CAME:  A slender rod of cast lead, with or without grooves, used, in casements and stained-glass windows, to hold together the panes or pieces of glass. 

CAMEL:  A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdens and for riding. The camel is remarkable for its ability to go a long time without drinking. Its hoofs are small, and situated at the extremities of the toes, and the weight of the animal rests on the callous. The dromedary (Camelus dromedarius) has one bunch on the back, while the Bactrian camel (C. Bactrianus) has two. The llama, alpaca, and vicuña, of South America, belong to a related genus (Auchenia).  2. (Naut.)  A watertight structure (as a large box or boxes) used to assist a vessel in passing over a shoal or bar or in navigating shallow water. By admitting water, the camel or camels may be sunk and attached beneath or at the sides of a vessel, and when the water is pumped out the vessel is lifted. Camel bird (Zoöl.), the ostrich.  -- Camel locust (Zoöl.), the mantis.  -- Camel's thorn (Bot.), a low, leguminous shrub (Alhagi maurorum) of the Arabian desert, from which exudes a sweetish gum, which is one of the substances called manna.  CAMELBACKED; CAMEL-BACKED Cam"el*backed`, a.  Having a back like a camel; humpbacked. Fuller. 

CAMELEON:  See Chaceleon. [Obs.] 

CAMELLIA:  An Asiatic genus of small shrubs, often with shining leaves and showy flowers. Camelia Japonica is much cultivated for ornament, and C. Sassanqua and C. Oleifera are grown in China for the oil which is pressed from their seeds. The tea plant is now referred to this genus under the name of Camellia Thea. 

CAMELOPARD:  An African ruminant; the giraffe. See Giraffe. 

CAMELOT:  See Camelet. [Obs.] 

CAMELRY:  Troops that are mounted on camels. 

CAMELSHAIR:  Of camel's hair. Camel's-hair pencil, a small brush used by painters in water colors, made of camel's hair or similar materials.  -- Camel's-hair shawl. A name often given to a cashmere shawl. See Cashmere shawl under Cashmere.  CAMEMBERT; CAMEMBERT CHEESE Ca`mem`bert", n., or Camembert cheese.  A kind of soft, unpressed cream cheese made in the vicinity of Camembert, near Argentan, France; also, any cheese of the same type, wherever made. 

CAMEO:  A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewel for personal adornment, or like.  Note: Most cameos are carved in a material which has layers of different colors, such stones as the onyx and sardonyx, and various kinds of shells, being used. Cameo conch (Zoöl.), a large, marine, univalve shell, esp. Cassis cameo, C. rua, and allied species, used for cutting cameos. See Quern conch. 

CAMERA:  A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: The camera obscura when used in photography. See Camera, and Camera obscura. Bellows camera. See under Bellows.  -- In camera (Law), in a judge's chamber, that is, privately; as, a judge hears testimony which is not fit for the open court in camera.  -- Panoramic, or Pantascopic, camera, a photographic camera in which the lens and sensitized plate revolve so as to expose adjacent parts of the plate successively to the light, which reaches it through a narrow vertical slit; -- used in photographing broad landscapes. Abney. 

CAMERADE:  See Comrade, [Obs.] 

CAMERALISTIC:  Of or pertaining to finance and public revenue. 

CAMERALISTICS:  The science of finance or public revenue.  CAMERA LUCIDA Cam"e*ra lu"ci*da. Etym: [L. camera chamber + L. lucidus, lucida, lucid, light.] (Opt.)  An instrument which by means of a prism of a peculiar form, or an arrangement of mirrors, causes an apparent image of an external object or objects to appear as if projected upon a plane surface, as of paper or canvas, so that the outlines may conveniently traced. It is generally used with the microscope.  CAMERA OBSCURA Cam"e*ra ob*scu"ra. Etym: [LL. camera chamber + L. obscurus, obscura, dark.] (Opt.)  1. An apparatus in which the images of extermal objects, formed by a convex lens or a concave mirror, are thrown on a paper or other white surface placed in the focus of the lens or mirror within a darkened chamber, or box, so that the oulines may be traced.  2. (Photog.)  An apparatus in which the image of an external object or objects is, by means of lenses. thrown upon a sensitized plate or surface placed at the back or an extensible darkened box or chamber variously modifled; -- commonly called simply the camera. 

CAMERATION:  A vaulting or arching over. [R.] 

CAMERLINGO:  The papal chamberlain; the cardinal who presides over the pope's household. He has at times possessed great power. [Written also camerlengo and camarlengo.] 

CAMERONIAN:  A follower of the Rev. Richard Cameron, a Scotch Covenanter of the time of Charies II. Cameron and others refused to accept the "indulgence" offered the Presbyterian clergy, insisted on the Solemn league and Covenant, and in 1680 declared Charles II deposed for tyranny, breach of faith, etc. Cameron was killed at the battle of Airdmoss, but his followers became a denomination (afterwards called Reformed Presbyterians) who refused to recognize laws or institutions which they believed contrary to the kingdom of Christ, but who now avail themselves of political rights. 

CAMIS:  A light, loose dress or robe. [Also written camus.] [Obs.] All in a camis light of purple silk. Spenser.  CAMISADE; CAMISADO Cam`i*sade", Cam`i*sa"do, n. Etym: [F. camisade a night attack; cf. It. camiciata. See Camis.] [Obs.] (Mil.) (a) A shirt worn by soldiers over their uniform, in order to be able to recognize one another in a night attack. (b) An attack by surprise by soldiers wearing the camisado. Give them a camisado in night season. Holinshed. 

CAMISARD:  One of the French Protestant insurgents who rebelled against Louis XIV, after the revocation of the edict of Nates; -- so called from the peasant's smock (camise) which they wore. 

CAMISATED:  Dressed with a shirt over the other garments. 

CAMLET:  A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton. [Sometimes written camelot and camblet.]  Note: They have been made plain and twilled, of sigle warp and weft, of double warp, and sometimes with double weft also, with thicker yarn. Beck (Draper's Dict. ) 

CAMLETED:  Wavy or undulating like camlet; veined. Sir T. Herbert. 

CAMMAS:  See Camass. 

CAMMOCK:  A plant having long hard, crooked roots, the Ononis spinosa; -- called also rest-harrow. The Scandix Pecten-Veneris is also called cammock.  CAMOMILE; CHAMOMILE Cam"o*mile, Cham"o*mile, n.Etym: [LL. camonilla, corrupted fr. Gr. Humble, and Melon.] (Bot.)  A genus of herbs (Anthemis) of the Composite family. The common camomile, A. nobilis, is used as a popular remedy. Its flowers have a strong and fragrant and a bitter, aromatic taste. They are tonic, febrifugal, and in large doses emetic, and the volatile oil is carminative. 

CAMONFLET:  A small mine, sometimes formed in the wall or side of an enemy's gallery, to blow in the earth and cut off the retreat of the miners. Farrow. 

CAMORRA:  A secret organization formed at Naples, Italy, early in the 19th century, and used partly for political ends and partly for practicing extortion, violence, etc. -- Ca*mor"rist (#), n.  CAMOUS; CAMOYS Ca"mous, Ca"moys, a. Etym: [F. camus (equiv. to camard) flat-nosed, fr. Celtic Cam croked + suff. -us; akin to L. camur, camurus, croked.]  Flat; depressed; crooked; -- said only of the nose. [Obs.] 

CAMOUSED:  Depressed; flattened. [Obs.] Though my nose be cammoused. B. Jonson 

CAMOUSLY:  Awry. [Obs.] Skelton. 

CAMP:  A mound of earth in which potatoes and other vegetables are stored for protection against frost; -- called also burrow and pie. [Prov. Eng.]  6. Etym: [Cf. OE. & AS. camp contest, battle. See champion.]  An ancient game of football, played in some parts of England. Halliwell. Camp bedstead, a light bedstead that can be folded up onto a small space for easy transportation.  -- camp ceiling (Arch.), a kind ceiling often used in attics or garrets, in which the side walls are inclined inward at the top, following the slope of the rafters, to meet the plane surface of the upper ceiling.  -- Camp chair, a light chair that can be folded up compactly for easy transportation; the seat and back are often made of strips or pieces of carpet.  -- Camp fever, typhus fever.  -- Camp follower, a civilian accompanying an army, as a sutler, servant, etc.  -- Camp meeting, a religious gathering for open-air preaching, held in some retired spot, chiefty by Methodists. It usualy last for several days, during which those present lodge in tents, temporary houses, or cottages.  -- Camp stool, the same as camp chair, except that the stool has no back.  -- Flying camp (Mil.), a camp or body of troops formed for rapid motion from one place to another. Farrow.  -- To pitch (a) camp, to set up the tents or huts of a camp.  -- To strike camp, to take down the tents or huts of a camp. 

CAMP:  To afford rest or lodging for, as an army or travelers. Had our great palace the capacity To camp this host, we all would sup together. Shak. 

CAMP:  To play the game called camp. [Prov. Eng.] Tusser. 

CAMPAGNA:  An open level tract of country; especially "Campagna di Roma." The extensive undulating plain which surrounds Rome.  Note: Its length is commonly stated to be about ninety miles, and its breadth from twenty-seven to forty miles. The ground is almost entirely volcanic, and vapors which arise from the district produce malaria. 

CAMPAGNOL:  A mouse (Arvicala agrestis), called also meadow mouse, which often does great damage in fields and gardens, by feeding on roots and seeds. 

CAMPAIGN:  A connected series of military operations forming a distinct stage in a war; the time during which an army keeps the field. Wilhelm.  3. Political operations preceding an election; a canvass. [Cant, U. S.]  4. (Metal.)  The period during which a blast furnace is continuously in operation. 

CAMPAIGN:  To serve in a campaign. 

CAMPAIGNER:  One who has served in an army in several campaigns; an old soldier; a veteran. 

CAMPANA:  A church bell.  2. (Bot.)  The pasque flower. Drayton.  3. (Doric Arch.)  Same as Gutta. 

CAMPANED:  Furnished with, or bearing, campanes, or bells. 

CAMPANERO:  The bellbird of South America. See Bellbird. 

CAMPANES:  Bells. [R.] 

CAMPANIA:  Open country. Sir W. Temple. 

CAMPANIFORM:  Bell-shaped. 

CAMPANILE:  A bell tower, esp. one built separate from a church. Many of the campaniles od Italy are lofty and magnificent atructures. Swift. 

CAMPANILIFORM:  Bell-shaped; campanulate; campaniform. 

CAMPANOLOGIST:  One skilled in campanology; a bell ringer. 

CAMPANOLOGY:  The art of ringing bells, or a treatise on the art. 

CAMPANULA:  A large genus of plants bearing bell-shaped flowers, often of great beauty; -- also called bellflower. 

CAMPANULACEOUS:  Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants (Camponulaceæ) of which Campanula is the type, and which includes the Canterbury bell, the harebell, and the Venus's looking-glass. 

CAMPANULARIAN:  A hydroid of the family ampanularidæ, characterized by having the polyps or zooids inclosed in bell-shaped calicles or hydrothecæ. 

CAMPANULATE:  Bell-shaped. 

CAMPBELLITE:  A member of the denomination called Christians or Disciples of Christ. They themselves repudiate the term Campbellite as a nickname. See Christian, 3.  CAMPEACHY WOOD Cam*peach"y Wood`. Etym: [From the bay of Campeachy, in Mexico.]  Logwood. 

CAMPER:  One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp.  CAMPESTRAL; CAMPESTRIAN Cam*pes"tral, Cam*pes"tri*an, a. Etym: [L. campester, fr. campus field.]  Relating to an open fields; drowing in a field; growing in a field, or open ground. 

CAMPFIGHT:  A duel; the decision of a case by a duel. 

CAMPHENE:  One of a series of substances C10H16, resembling camphor, regarded as modified terpenes. 

CAMPHINE:  Rectified oil of turpentine, used for burning in lamps, and as a common solvent in varnishes.  Note: The name is also applied to a mixture of this substance with three times its volume of alcohol and sometimes a little ether, used as an illuminant. 

CAMPHIRE:  An old spelling of Camphor. 

CAMPHOGEN:  See Cymene. 

CAMPHOL:  See Borneol. 

CAMPHOR:  To impregnate or wash with camphor; to camphorate. [R.] Tatler. 

CAMPHORACEOUS:  Of the nature of camphor; containing camphor. Dunglison. 

CAMPHORATE:  To impregnate or treat with camphor. 

CAMPHORATE:  A salt of camphoric acid.  CAMPHORATE; CAMPORATED Cam"phor*ate, Cam"por*a`ted,  Combined or impregnated with camphor. Camphorated oil, an oleaginous preparation containing camphor, much used as an embrocation. 

CAMPHORIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, camphor. Camphoric acid, a white crystallizable substance, C10H16O4, obtained from the oxidation of camphor.  Note: Other acid of camphor are campholic acid, C10H18O2, and camphoronic acid, C9H12O5, white crystallizable substances. 

CAMPHRETIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from camphor. [R.] 

CAMPING:  A game of football. [Prov. Eng.] 

CAMPION:  A plant of the Pink family (Cucubalus bacciferus), bearing berries regarded as poisonous. Bladder campion, a plant of the Pink family (Cucubalus Behen or Silene inflata), having a much inflated calyx. See Behen.  -- Rose campion, a garden plant (Lychnis coronaria) with handsome crimsome crimson flowers. 

CAMPUS:  The principal grounds of a college or school, between the buildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus. 

CAMPYLOSPERMOUS:  Having seeds grooved lengthwise on the inner face, as in sweet cicely. 

CAMPYLOTROPOUS:  Having the ovules and seeds so curved, or bent down upon themselves, that the ends of the embryo are brought close together. 

CAMUS:  See Camis. [Obs.] 

CAMWOOD:  See Barwood. 

CAN:  an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used in old poetry.  Note: [See Gan.] With gentle words he can faile gree. Spenser. 

CAN:  To preserve by putting in sealed cans [U. S.] "Canned meats" W. D. Howells. Canned goods, a general name for fruit, vegetables, meat, or fish, preserved in hermetically sealed cans. 

CANAANITE:  A zealot. "Simon the Canaanite." Matt. x. 4.  Note: This was the "Simon called Zelotes" (Luke vi. 15), i.e., Simon the zealot. Kitto. 

CANAANITISH:  Of or pertaining to Canaan or the Canaanites.  CANADA; CANYADA Ca*ña"da, n. Etym: [Sp.]  A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.] 

CANADA:  A British province in North America, giving its name to various plants and animals. Canada balsam. See under Balsam.  -- Canada goose. (Zoöl.) See Whisky Jack.  -- Canada lynx. (Zoöl.) See Lynx.  -- Canada porcupine (Zoöl.) See Porcupine, and Urson.  -- Canada rice (Bot.) See under Rick.  -- Canada robin (Zoöl.), the cedar bird. 

CANADIAN:  Of or pertaining to Canada.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Canada. Canadian period (Geol.), A subdivision of the American Lower Silurian system embracing the calciferous, Quebec, and Chazy epochs. This period immediately follows the primordial or Cambrian period, and is by many geologists regarded as the beginning of the Silurian age, See the Diagram, under Geology. 

CANAKIN:  A little can or cup. "And let me the canakin clink." Shak. 

CANAL:  A tube or duct; as, the alimentary canal; the semicircular canals of the ear. Canal boat, a boat for use on a canal; esp. one of peculiar shape, carrying freight, and drawn by horses walking on the towpath beside the canal. Canal lock. See Lock.  CANAL COAL Can"al coal`.  See Cannel coal.  CANALICULATE; CANALICULATED Can`a*lic"u*late, Can`a*lic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. canaliculatus channeled, fr. canaliculus, dim. of canalis. See Canal.]  Having a channel or groove, as in the leafstalks of most palms. 

CANALICULUS:  A minute canal. 

CANALIZATION:  Construction of, or furnishing with, a canal or canals. [R.] 

CANAPE:  A sofa having a seat at each end at right angles to the main seats. 

CANARD:  An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricated sensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in the newspapers to hoax the public. 

CANARESE:  Pertaining to Canara, a district of British India. 

CANARY:  To perform the canary dance; to move nimbly; to caper. [Obs.] But to jig of a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet. Shak. CANARY BIRD Ca*na"ry bird`. (Zoöl.)  A small singing bird of the Finch family (Serinus Canarius), a native of the Canary Islands. It was brought to Europe in the 16th century, and made a household pet. It generally has a yellowish body with the wings and tail greenish, but in its wild state it is more frequently of gray or brown color. It is sometimes called canary finch.canary.  Canary bird flower (Bot.), a climbing plant (Tropæolum peregrinum) with canary-colored flowers of peculiar form; -- called also canary vine. 

CANASTER:  A kind of tobacco for smoking, made of the dried leaves, coarsely broken; -- so called from the rush baskets in which it is packed in South America. McElrath.  CAN BUOY Can" buoy`.  See under Buoy, n. 

CANCAN:  A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous or extravagant postures and gestures. 

CANCEL:  To suppress or omit; to strike out, as matter in type. Canceled figures (Print), figures cast with a line across the face., as for use in arithmetics.  Syn.  -- To blot out; Obliterate; deface; erase; efface; expunge; annul; abolish; revoke; abrogate; repeal; destroy; do away; set aside. See Abolish. 

CANCELIER:  To turn in flight; -- said of a hawk. [Obs.] Nares. He makes his stoop; but wanting breath, is forced To cancelier. Massinger.  CANCELIER; CANCELEER Can`cel*ier", Can"cel*eer, n. (Falconry)  The turn of a hawk upon the wing to recover herself, when she misses her aim in the stoop. [Obs.] The fierce and eager hawks, down thrilling from the skies, Make sundry canceliers are they the fowl can reach. Drayton. 

CANCELLAREAN:  Cancellarean. [R.] 

CANCELLATE:  Consisting of a network of veins, without intermediate parenchyma, as the leaves of certain plant; latticelike.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having the surface coveres with raised lines, crossing at right angles. 

CANCELLATED:  Open or spongy, as some porous bones. 

CANCELLATION:  The operation of striking out common factora, in both the dividend and divisor. 

CANCELLI:  The interlacing osseous plates constituting the elastic porous tissue of certain parts of the bones, esp. in their articular extremities. 

CANCELLOUS:  Having a spongy or porous stracture; made up of cancelli; cancellated; as, the cancellous texture of parts of many bones. 

CANCER:  A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most common shore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonah crab, etc. See Crab.  2. (Astron.) (a) The fourth of the twelve signs of the zodiac. The first point is the northern limit of the sun's course in summer; hence, the sign of the summer solstice. See Tropic. (b) A northern constellation between Gemini and Leo.  3. (Med.)  Formerly, any malignant growth, esp. one attended with great pain and ulceration, with cachexia and progressive emaciation. It was so called, perhaps, from the great veins which surround it, compared by the ancients to the claws of a crab. The term it now restricted to such a growth made up of aggregations of epithelial cells, either without support or embedded in the meshes of a trabecular framework.  Note: Four kinds of cancers are recognized: (1) Epithelial cancer, or Epithelioma, in which there is no trabecular framework. See Epithelioma. (2) Scirrhous cancer, or Hard cancer, in which the framework predominates, and the tumor is of hard consistence and slow growth. (3) Encephaloid, Medullary, or Soft cancer, in which the cellular element predominates, and the tumor is soft, grows rapidy, and often ulcerates. (4) Colloid cancer, in which the cancerous structure becomes gelatinous. The last three varieties are also called carcinoma. Cancer cells, cells once believed to be peculiar to cancers, but now know to be epithelial cells differing in no respect from those found elsewhere in the body, and distinguished only by peculiarity of location and grouping.  -- Cancer root (Bot.), the name of several low plants, mostly parasitic on roots, as the beech drops, the squawroot, etc.  -- Tropic of Cancer. See Tropic. 

CANCERATE:  To grow into a canser; to become cancerous. Boyle. 

CANCERATION:  The act or state of becoming cancerous or growing into a cancer. 

CANCERITE:  Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer; affected with cancer. "Cancerous vices." G. Eliot.  -- Can"cer*ous*ly, adv.  -- Can"cer*ous*ness, n. 

CANCEROUS:  Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer; affected with cancer. "cancerous vices" G. Eliot. [1913 Webster]  -- Can"cer*ous*ly, adv. --Can"cer*ous*ness, n. 

CANCRINE:  Having the qualities of a crab; crablike. 

CANCRINITE:  A mineral occurring in hexagonal crystals, also massive, generally of a yellow color, containing silica, alumina, lime, soda, and carbon dioxide. 

CANCROID:  Resembling a crab; pertaining to the Cancroidea, one of the families of crabs, including the genus Cancer.  2. Like a cancer; as, a cancroid tumor. 

CAND:  Fluor spar. See Kand. 

CANDENT:  Heated to whiteness; glowing with heat. "A candent vessel." Boyle. 

CANDEROS:  An East Indian resin, of a pellucid white color, from which small ornaments and toys are sometimes made. 

CANDESCENCE:  See Inclandescence. 

CANDESCENT:  Glowing; luminous; incandescent. 

CANDICANT:  Growing white. [Obs.] 

CANDIDACY:  The position of a candidate; state of being a candidate; candidateship. 

CANDIDATE:  One who offers himself, or is put forward by others, as a suitable person or an aspirant or contestant for an office, privilege, or honor; as, a candidate for the office of governor; a candidate for holy orders; a candidate for scholastic honors. 

CANDIDATESHIP:  Candidacy. 

CANDIDATING:  The taking of the position of a candidate; specifically, the preaching of a clergyman with a view to settlement. [Cant, U. S.] 

CANDIDATURE:  Candidacy. 

CANDIDLY:  In a candid manner. 

CANDIDNESS:  The quality of being candid. 

CANDIFY:  To make or become white, or candied. [R.] 

CANDIOT:  Of or pertaining to Candia; Cretary. 

CANDITE:  A variety of spinel, of a dark color, found at Candy, in Ceylon. 

CANDLE:  A shrub (the Myrica cerifera, or wax-bearing myrtle), common in North America, the little nuts of which are covered with a greenish white wax, which was formerly, used for hardening candles; -- also called bayberry tree, bayberry, or candleberry. 

CANDLEBOMB:  See Cannel coal. 

CANDLEFISH:  The illumination produced by a British standard candle at a distance of one foot; --used as a unit of illumination. 

CANDLEHOLDER:  One who, or that which, holds a candle; also, one who assists another, but is otherwise not of importance. Shak. 

CANDLELIGHT:  The light of a candle. Never went by candlelight to bed. Dryden. 

CANDLEMAS:  The second day of February, on which is celebrated the feast of the Purification of the Virgin Mary; -- so called because the candles for the altar or other sacred uses are blessed on that day.  CANDLE METER Candle meter. (Photom.)  The illumination given by a standard candle at a distance of one meter; -- used as a unit of illumination, except in Great Britain. 

CANDLEPIN:  Illuminating power, as of a lamp, or gas flame, reckoned in terms of the light of a standard candle. 

CANDLESTICK:  An instrument or utensil for supporting a candle. 

CANDLEWASTER:  One who consumes candles by being up late for study or dissipation. A bookworm, a candlewaster. B. Jonson. 

CANDOCK:  A plant or weed that grows in rivers; a species of of Equisetum; also, the yellow frog lily (Nuphar luteum). 

CANDROY:  A machine for spreading out cotton cloths to prepare them for printing. 

CANDY:  A more or less solid article of confectionery made by boiling sugar or molasses to the desired consistency, and than crystallizing, molding, or working in the required shape. It is often flavored or colored, and sometimes contains fruit, nuts, etc. 

CANDY:  A weight, at Madras 500 pounds, at Bombay 560 pounds. 

CANDYTUFT:  An annual plant of the genus Iberis, cultivated in gardens. The name was originally given to the I. umbellata, first, discovered in the island of Candia. 

CANEBRAKE:  A thicket of canes. Ellicott. 

CANED:  Filled with white flakes; mothery; -- said vinegar when containing mother. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

CANELLA:  A genus of trees of the order Canellaceæ, growing in the West Indies.  Note: The principal species is Canella alba, and its bark is a spice and drug exported under the names of wild cinnamon and whitewood bark. 

CANESCENT:  Growing white, or assuming a color approaching to white. 

CANGUE:  A very broad and heavy wooden collar which certain offenders in China are compelled to wear as a punishment.  CAN HOOK Can" hook`.  A device consisting of a short rope with flat hooks at each end, for hoisting casks or barrels by the ends of the staves.  CANICULA; CANNICULA Ca*nic"u*la, Can*nic"u*la, n. Etym: [L. canicula, lit., a little dog, a dim of canis dog; cf. F. canicule.] (Astron.)  The Dog Star; Sirius. 

CANICULAR:  Pertaining to, or measured, by the rising of the Dog Star. Canicular days, the dog days, See Dog days.  -- Canicular year, the Egyptian year, computed from one heliacal rising of the Dog Star to another. 

CANICULE:  Canicula. Addison. 

CANINAL:  See Canine, a. 

CANINE:  Of or pertaining to the pointed tooth on each side the incisors. Canine appetite, a morbidly voracious appetite; bulimia.  -- Canine letter, the letter r. See R.  -- Canine madness, hydrophobia.  -- Canine toth, a toth situated between the incisor and bicuspid teeth, so called because well developen in dogs; usually, the third tooth from the front on each side of each jaw; an eyetooth, or the corresponding tooth in the lower jaw. 

CANINE:  A canine tooth. 

CANIS:  A genus of carnivorous mammals, of the family Canidæ, including the dogs and wolves. Canis major Etym: [L., larger dog], a constellation to the southeast of Orion, containing Sirius or the Dog Star.  -- Canis minor Etym: [L., smaller dog], a constellation to the east of Orion, containing Procyon, a star of the first magnitude. 

CANISTER:  A kind of case shot for cannon, in which a number of lead or iron balls in layers are inclosed in a case fitting the gun; -- called also canister shot, 

CANKER:  A disease incident to trees, causing the bark to rot and fall off.  4. (Far.)  An obstinate and often incurable disease of a horse's foot, characterized by separation of the horny portion and the development of fungoid growths; -- usually resulting from neglected thrush.  5. A kind of wild, worthless rose; the dog-rose. To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose. And plant this thorm, this canker, Bolingbroke. Shak. Black canker. See under Black. 

CANKER:  Eaten out by canker, or as by canker. [Obs.]  CANKER BLOOM Can"ker bloom`.  The bloom or blossom of the wild rose or dog-rose.  CANKER BLOSSOM Can"ker blos`som.  That which blasts a blossom as a canker does. [Obs.] O me! you juggler! you canker blossom! You thief of Love! Shak. 

CANKEREDLY:  Fretfully; spitefully.  CANKER FLY Can"ker fly`.  A fly that preys on fruit. 

CANKEROUS:  Affecting like a canker. "Canrerous shackles." Thomson. Misdeem it not a cankerous change. Wordsworth.  CANKER RASH Can"ker rash". (Med.)  A form of scarlet fever characterized by ulcerated or putrid sore throat. 

CANKERWORM:  The larva of two species of geometrid moths which are very injurious to fruit and shade trees by eating, and often entirely destroying, the foliage. Other similar larvæ are also called cankerworms.  Note: The autumnal species (Anisopteryx pometaria) becomes adult late in autumn (after frosts) and in winter. The spring species (A. vernata) remains in the ground through the winter, and matures in early spring. Both have winged males and wingless females. The larvæ are similar in appearance and habits, and beling to the family of measuring worms or spanworms. These larvæ hatch from the eggs when the leaves being to expand in spring. 

CANNA:  A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet. See Cane, 4. 

CANNA:  A genus of tropical plants, with large leaves and often with showy flowers. The Indian shot. (C. Indica) is found in gardens of the northern United States. 

CANNABENE:  A colorless oil obtained from hemp dy distillation, and possessing its intoxicating properties. 

CANNABIN:  A pisonous resin extracted from hemp (Cannabis sativa, variety Indica). The narcotic effects of hasheesh are due to this resin. 

CANNABINE:  Pertaining to hemp; hempen. [R.] 

CANNABIS:  A genus of a single species belonging to the order Uricaceæ; hemp. Cannabis Indica (, the Indian hemp, a powerful narcotic, now considered a variety of the common hemp.  CANNEL COAL Can"nel coal`. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. ndle coal.]  A kind of mineral coal of a black color, sufficiently hard and solid to be cut and polished. It burns readily, with a clear, yellow flame, and on this account has been used as a substitute for candles. 

CANNELE:  A style of interweaving giving to fabrics a channeled or fluted effect; also, a fabric woven so as to have this effect; a rep. 

CANNELURE:  A groove in any cylinder; specif., a groove around the cylinder of an elongated bullet for small arms to contain a lubricant, or around the rotating band of a gun projectile to lessen the resistance offered to the rifling. Also, a groove around the base of a cartridge, where the extractor takes hold. --Can"ne*lured (#), a. 

CANNERY:  A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., is carried on. [U. S.] 

CANNIBAL:  A human being that eats human flesh; hence, any that devours its own kind. Darwin. 

CANNIBAL:  Relating to cannibals or cannibalism. "Cannibal terror." Burke. 

CANNIBALISM:  The act or practice of eating human flesh by mankind. Hence; Murderous cruelty; barbarity. Berke. 

CANNIBALLY:  In the manner of cannibal. "An he had been cannibally given." Shak. 

CANNIKIN:  A small can or drinking vessel. 

CANNILY:  In a canny manner. [N. of Eng. & Scot.] 

CANNINESS:  Caution; crafty management. [N. of Eng. & Scot.] 

CANNON:  A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, on which it may, however, revolve independently.  3. (Printing.)  A kind of type. See Canon. Cannon ball, strictly, a round solid missile of stone or iron made to be fired from a cannon, but now often applied to a missile of any shape, whether solid or hollow, made for cannon. Elongated and cylindrical missiles are sometimes called bolts; hollow ones charged with explosives are properly called shells.  -- Cannon bullet, a cannon ball. [Obs.] -- Cannon cracker, a fire cracker of large size.  -- Cannon lock, a device for firing a cannon by a percussion primer.  -- Cannon metal. See Gun Metal.  -- Cannon pinion, the pinion on the minute hand arbor of a watch or clock, which drives the hand but permits it to be moved in setting.  -- Cannon proof, impenetrable by cannon balls.  -- Cannon shot. (a) A cannon ball. (b) The range of a cannon. 

CANNON:  See Carom. [Eng.] 

CANNONADE:  To attack with heavy artillery; to batter with cannon shot. 

CANNONADE:  To discharge cannon; as, the army cannonaded all day.  CANNON BONE Can"non bone. (Anat.)  See Canon Bone. 

CANNONED:  Furnished with cannon. [Poetic] "Gilbralter's cannoned steep." M. Arnold.  CANNONEER; CANNONIER Can`non*eer", Can`non*ier", n. Etym: [F. canonnier.]  A man who manages, or fires, cannon. 

CANNONERING:  The use of cannon. Burke. 

CANNONRY:  Cannon, collectively; artillery. The ringing of bells and roaring of cannonry proclaimed his course through the country. W. Irving. 

CANNOT:  Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two. 

CANNULA:  A small tube of metal, wood, or India rubber, used for various purposes, esp. for injecting or withdrawing fluids. It is usually associated with a trocar. [Written also canula.] 

CANNULAR:  Having the form of a tube; tubular. [Written also canular.] 

CANNULATED:  Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length for wire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle. [Written also canulated.]  CANNY; CANNEI Can"ny, Can"nei, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kenn skilled, learned, or E. canny. Cf. Kenn.] [North of Eng. & Scot.]  1. Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary.  2. Skillful; knowing; capable. Sir W. Scott.  3. Cautious; prudent; safe.. Ramsay.  4. Having pleasing of useful qualities; gentle. Burns.  5. Reputed to have magical powers. Sir W. Scott. No canny, not safe, not fortunate; unpropitious. [Scot.] 

CANOE:  To manage a canoe, or voyage in a canoe. 

CANOEING:  The act or art of using a canoe. 

CANOEIST:  A canoeman. 

CANOEMAN:  One who uses a canoe; one who travels in a canoe. Cabins and clearing greeted the eye of the passing canoeman. Parkman. 

CANON:  A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a council and confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation, code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority. Various canons which were made in councils held in the second centry. Hock.  3. The collection of books received as genuine Holy Scriptures, called the sacred canon, or general rule of moral and religious duty, given by inspiration; the Bible; also, any one of the canonical Scriptures. See Canonical books, under Canonical, a.  4. In monasteries, a book containing the rules of a religious order.  5. A catalogue of saints sckowledged and canonized in the Roman Catholic Church.  6. A member of a cathedral chapter; a person who possesses a prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church.  7. (Mus.)  A musical composition in which the voice begin one after another, at regular intervals, succesively taking up the same subject. It either winds up with a coda (tailpiece), or, as each voice finishes, commences anew, thus forming a perpetual fugue or round. It is the strictest form of imitation. See Imitation.  8. (Print.)  The largest size of type having a specific name; -- so called from having been used for printing the canons of the church.  9. The part of a bell by which it is suspended; -- called also ear and shank.  Note: [See Illust. of Bell.] Knight.  10. (Billiards)  See Carom. Apostolical canons. See under Apostolical.  -- Augustinian canons, Black canons. See under Augustinian.  -- Canon capitular, Canon residentiary, a resident member of a cathedral chapter (during a part or the whole of the year).  -- Canon law. See under Law.  -- Canon of the Mass (R. C. Ch.), that part of the mass, following the Sanctus, which never changes.  -- Honorary canon, a canon who neither lived in a monastery, nor kept the canonical hours.  -- Minor canon (Ch. of Eng.), one who has been admitted to a chapter, but has not yet received a prebend.  -- Regular canon (R. C. Ch.), one who lived in a conventual community and follower the rule of St. Austin; a Black canon.  -- Secular canon (R. C. Ch.), one who did not live in a monastery, but kept the hours.  CANON; CANYON Ca*ñon", n. Etym: [Sp., a tube or hollow, fr. caña reed, fr. L. canna. See Cane.]  A deep gorge, ravine, or gulch, between high and steep banks, worn by water courses. [Mexico & Western U. S.]  CANON BIT Can"on bit`. Etym: [F. canon, fr. L. canon a rule.]  That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth.  CANON BONE Can"on bone`. Etym: [F. canon, fr. L. canon a rule. See canon.] (Anat.)  The shank bone, or great bone above the fetlock, in the fore and hind legs of the horse and allied animals, corresponding to the middle metacarpal or metatarsal bone of most mammals. See Horse. 

CANONESS:  A woman who holds a canonry in a conventual chapter. Regular canoness, one bound by the poverty, and observing a strict rule of life.  -- Secular canoness, one allowed to hold private property, and bound only by vows of chastity and obedience so long as she chose to remain in the chapter.  CANONIC; CANNONICAL Ca*non"ic, Can*non"ic*al, a Etym: [L. cannonicus, LL. canonicalis, fr. L. canon: cf. F. canonique. See canon.]  Of or pertaining to a canon; established by, or according to a , canon or canons. "The oath of canonical obedience." Hallam. Canonical books, or Canonical Scriptures, those books which are declared by the canons of the church to be of divine inspiration; -- called collectively the canon. The Roman Catolic Church holds as canonical several books which Protestants reject as apocryphal.  -- Canonical epistles, an appellation given to the epistles called also general or catholic. See Catholic epistles, under Canholic.  -- Canonical form (Math.), the simples or most symmetrical form to which all functions of the same class can be reduced without lose of generality.  -- Canonical hours, certain stated times of the day, fixed by ecclesiastical laws, and appropriated to the offices of prayer and devotion; also, certain portions of the Breviary, to be used at stated hours of the day. In England, this name is also given to the hours from 8 a. m. to 3 p. m. (formerly 8 a. m. to 12 m.) before and after which marriage can not be legally performed in any parish church.  -- Canonical letters, letters of several kinds, formerly given by a dishop to traveling clergymam or laymen, to show that they were entitled to receive the cammunion, and to distinguish them from heretics.  -- Canonical life, the method or rule of living prescribed by the ancient cleargy who lived in community; a course of living prescribed for the clergy, less rigid that the monastic, and more restrained that the secular.  -- Canonical obedience, submission to the canons of a canons of a church, especially the submission of the inferior cleargy to their bishops, and of other religious orders to their supriors.  -- Canonical punishments, such as the church may inflict, as excommunication, degradation, penance, etc.  -- Canonical sins (Anc. Church.), those for which capital punishment or puplic penance decreed by the canon was inflicted, as idolatry, murder, adultery, heresy. 

CANONICALLY:  ; according to the canons. 

CANONICALNESS:  The quality of being canonical; canonicity. Bp. Burnet. 

CANONICALS:  The dress prescribed by canon to be worn by a clergyman when oficiating. Sometimes, any distinctive professional dress. Full canonicals, the complete costume of an officiating clergyman or ecclesiastic. 

CANONICATE:  The office of a canon; a canonry. 

CANONICITY:  The state or quality of being canonical; agreement with the canon. 

CANONIST:  A professor of canon law; one skilled in the knowledge and practice of ecclesiastical law. South. 

CANONISTIC:  Of or pertaining to a canonist. "This canonistic exposition." Milton. 

CANONIZATION:  The final process or decree (following beatifacation) by which the name of a deceased person is placed in the catalogue (canon) of saints and commended to perpetual veneration and invocation. Canonization of saints was not known to the Christian church titl toward the middle of the tenth century. Hoock.  2. The state of being canonized or sainted. 

CANONIZE:  To declare (a deceased person) a saint; to put in the catalogue of saints; as, Thomas a Becket was canonized.  2. To glorify; to exalt to the highest honor. Fame in time to come canonize us. Shak.  2. To rate as inspired; to include in the canon.[R.] 

CANONRY:  A benefice or prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church; a right to a place in chapter and to a portion of its revenues; the dignity or emoluments of a canon. 

CANONSHIP:  Of pertaining to Canopus in egypt; as, the Canopic vases, used in embalming. 

CANOPUS:  A star of the first magnitude in the southern constellation Argo. 

CANOPY:  To cover with, or as with, a canopy. "A bank with ivy canopied." Milton. 

CANOROUS:  Melodious; musical. "Birds that are most canorous." Sir T. Browne. A long, lound, and canorous peal of laughter. De Quincey. 

CANOROUSNESS:  The quality of being musical. He chooses his language for its rich canorousness. Lowell. 

CANSTICK:  Candlestick. [Obs.] Shak. 

CANT:  A segment forming a side piece in the head of a cask. Knight.  6. (Mech.)  A segment of he rim of a wooden cogwheel. Knight.  7. (Naut.)  A piece of wood laid upon athe deck of a vessel to support the bulkneads. Cant frames, Cant timbers (Naut.), timber at the two ends of a ship, rising obliquely from the keel. 

CANT:  Of the nature of cant; affected; vulgar. To introduce and multiply cant words in the most ruinous corruption in any language. Swift. 

CANT:  A all for bidders at a public sale; an auction. "To sell their leases by cant." Swift. 

CANT:  to sell by auction, or bid a price at a sale by auction. [Archaic] Swift.  CAN'T Can't.  A colloquial contraction for can not. 

CANTAB:  A Cantabrigian. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. 

CANTABILE:  In a melodious, flowing style; in a singing style, as opposed to bravura, recitativo, or parlando. 

CANTABILE:  A piece or pessage, whether vocal or instrumental, pecuilarly adapted to singing; -- sometimes called cantilena. 

CANTABRIAN:  Of or pertaining to Cantabria on the Bay of Biscay in Spain. 

CANTABRIGIAN:  A native or resident of Cambridge; esp. a student or graduate of the university of Cambridge, England. 

CANTALEVER:  A bracket to support a balcony, a cornice, or the like.  2. (Engin.)  A projecting beam, truss, or bridge unsupported at the outer end; one which overhangs. Cantalever bridge, a bridge in which the principle of the cantalever is applied. It is usually a trussed bridge, composed of two portions reaching out from opposite banks, and supported near the middle of their own length on piers which they overhang, thus forming cantalevers which meet over the space to be spanned or sustain a third portion, to complete the connection. 

CANTALOUPE:  A muskmelon of several varieties, having when mature, a yellowish skin, and flesh of a reddish orange color. [Written also cantaleup.] 

CANTANKEROUS:  Perverse; contentious; ugly; malicious. [Colloq.] -- Can*tan"ker*ous*ly, adv.  -- Can*tan"ker*ous*ness, n. The cantankerous old maiden aunt. Theckeray.  CANTAR; CANTARRO Can"tar, Can*tar"ro, n. Etym: [It. cantaro (in sense 1), Sp. cantaro (in sense 2).]  1. A weight used in southern Europe and East for heavy articles. It varies in different localities; thus, at Rome it is nearly 75 pounds, in Sardinia nearly 94 pounds, in Cairo it is 95 pounds, in Syria about 503 pounds.  2. A liquid measure in Spain, ranging from two and a half to four gallons. Simmonds. 

CANTATA:  A poem set to music; a musical composition comprising choruses, solos, interludes, etc., arranged in a somewhat dramatic manner; originally, a composition for a single noise, consisting of both recitative and melody. 

CANTATION:  A singing. [Obs.] Blount. 

CANTATORY:  Caontaining cant or affectation; whining; singing. [R.] 

CANTATRICE:  A female professional singer. 

CANTEL:  See Cantle. 

CANTER:  To move in a canter. 

CANTER:  To cause, as a horse, to go at a canter; to ride (a horse) at a canter. 

CANTHARIDAL:  Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as, cantharidal plaster. 

CANTHARIDES:  See cantharis. 

CANTHARIDIN:  The active principe of the cantharis, or Spanish fly, a volatile, acrid, bitter solid, crystallizing in four-sided prisms. 

CANTHARIS:  A beetle (Lytta, or Cantharis, vesicatoria), having an elongated cylindrical body of a brilliant green color, and a nauseous odor; the blister fly or blister beetle, of the apothecary; -- also called Spanish fly. Many other species of Lytta, used for the same purpose, take the same name. See Blister beetle, under Blister. The plural form in usually applied to the dried insects used in medicine.  CANT HOOK Cant" hook`.  A wooden lever with a movable iron hook. hear the end; -- used for canting or turning over heavy logs, etc. [U. S.] Bartlett. 

CANTHOPLASTY:  The operation of forming a new canthus, when one has been destroyed by injury or disease. 

CANTHUS:  The corner where the upper and under eyelids meet on each side of the eye. 

CANTICLE:  The Song of Songs or Song of Solomon, one of the books of the Old Testament.  3. A canto or division of a poem [Obs.] Spenser.  4. A psalm, hymn, or passage from the Bible, arranged for chanting in church service. 

CANTICOY:  A social gathering; usually, one for dancing. 

CANTILE:  Same as Cantle, v. t. 

CANTILENA:  See Cantabile. 

CANTILEVER:  Same as Cantalever. 

CANTILLATE:  To chant; to recite with musical tones. M. Stuart. 

CANTILLATION:  A chanting; recitation or reading with musical modulations. 

CANTINE:  See Canteen. 

CANTING:  Speaking in a whining tone of voice; using technical or religious terms affectedly; affectedly pious; as, a canting rogue; a canting tone. - Cant"ing*ly, adv.  -- Cant"ing*ness, n. Canting arms, Canting heraldry (Her.), bearings in the nature of a rebus alluding to the name of the bearer. Thus, the Castletons bear three castles, and Pope Adrian IV. (Nicholas Breakspeare) bore a broken spear. 

CANTING:  The use of cant; hypocrisy. 

CANTINIERE:  A woman who carries a canteen for soldiers; a vivandière. 

CANTION:  A song or verses. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CANTLE:  To cut in pieces; to cut out from. [Obs.] [Written also cantile.] 

CANTLET:  A piece; a fragment; a corner. Dryden. 

CANTO:  The highest vocal part; the air or melody in choral music; anciently the tenor, now the soprano. Canto fermo ( Etym: [It.] (Mus.), the plain ecclesiastical chant in cathedral service; the plain song. 

CANTON:  A song or canto [Obs.] Write loyal cantons of contemned love. Shak. 

CANTON:  A division of a shield occupying one third part of the chief, usually on the dexter side, formed by a perpendicular line from the top of the shield, meeting a horizontal line from the side. The king gave us the arms of England to be borne in a canton in our arms. Evelyn. 

CANTON:  To allot separate quarters to, as to different parts or divisions of an army or body of troops. 

CANTONAL:  Of or pertaining to a canton or cantons; of the nature of a canton.  CANTON CRAPE Can"ton crape".  A soft, white or colored silk fabric, of a gauzy texture and wavy appearance, used for ladies' scarfs, shawls, bonnet trimmings, etc.; -- called also Oriental crape. De Colange. 

CANTONED:  Having a charge in each of the four corners; -- said of a cross on a shield, and also of the shield itself.  2. (Arch.)  Having the angles marked by, or decorated with, projecting moldings or small columns; as, a cantoned pier or pilaster.  CANTON FLANNEL Can"ton flan"nel.  See Cotton flannel. 

CANTONIZE:  To divide into cantons or small districts. 

CANTONMENT:  A town or village, or part of a town or village, assigned to a body of troops for quarters; temporary shelter or place of rest for an army; quarters.  Note: When troops are sheltered in huts or quartered in the houses of the people during any suspension of hostilities, they are said to be in cantonment, or to be cantoned. In India, permanent military stations, or military towns, are termed cantonments. 

CANTOON:  A cotton stuff showing a fine cord on one side and a satiny surface on the other. 

CANTOR:  A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor. The cantor of the church intones the Te Deum. Milman. 

CANTORAL:  Of or belonging to a cantor. Cantoral staff, the official staff or baton of a cantor or precentor, with which time is marked for the singers. 

CANTORIS:  Of or pertaining to a cantor; as, the cantoris side of a choir; a cantoris stall. Shipley.  CANTRAP; CANTRIP Can"trap, Can"trip, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. gandar, ODan. & OSw. gan, witchcraft, and E. trap a snare, tramp.]  A charm; an incantation; a shell; a trick; adroit mischief. [Written also cantraip.] [Scot.]  CANTRED; CANTREF Can"tred, Can"tref, n. Etym: [W. cantref; cant hundred + tref dwelling place, village.]  A district comprising a hundred villages, as in Wales. [Written also kantry.] 

CANTY:  Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry. "The canty dame." Wordsworth [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Contented with little, and canty with mair. Burns. 

CANUCK:  See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated. 

CANVAS:  Made of, pertaining to, or resembling, canvas or coarse cloth; as, a canvas tent. 

CANVASBACK:  A Species of duck (Aythya vallisneria), esteemed for the delicacy of its flesh. It visits the United States in autumn; particularly Chesapeake Bay and adjoining waters; -- so named from the markings of the plumage on its back. 

CANVASS:  To search thoroughly; to engage in solicitation by traversing a district; as, to canvass for subscriptions or for votes; to canvass for a book, a publisher, or in behalf of a charity; -- commonly followed by for. 

CANVASSER:  One who canvasses. 

CANY:  Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes. Milton. 

CANYON:  The English form of the Spanish word Cañon. 

CANZONET:  A short song, in one or more parts. 

CAOUTCHIN:  An inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained by the destructive distillation of caoutchouc. 

CAOUTCHOUC:  A tenacious, elastic, gummy substance obtained from the milky sap of several plants of tropical South America (esp. the euphorbiaceous tree Siphonia elastica or Hevea caoutchouc), Asia, and Africa. Being impermeable to liquids and gases, and not readly affected by exposure to air, acids, and alkalies, it is used, especially when vulcanized, for many purposes in the arts and in manufactures. Also called India rubber (because it was first brought from India, and was formerly used chiefly for erasing pencil marks) and gum elastic. See Vulcanization. Mineral caoutchouc. See under Mineral. 

CAOUTCHOUCIN:  See Caoutchin. 

CAP:  The whole top of the head of a bird from the base of the bill to the nape of the neck.  5. Anything resembling a cap in form, position, or use; as: (a) (Arch.) The uppermost of any assemblage of parts; as, the cap of column, door, etc.; a capital, coping, cornice, lintel, or plate. (b) Something covering the top or end of a thing for protection or ornament. (c) (Naut.) A collar of iron or wood used in joining spars, as the mast and the topmast, the bowsprit and the jib boom; also, a covering of tarred canvas at the end of a rope. (d) A percussion cap. See under Percussion. (e) (Mech.) The removable cover of a journal box. (f) (Geom.) A portion of a spherical or other convex surface.  6. A large size of writing paper; as, flat cap; foolscap; legal cap. Cap of a cannon, a piece of lead laid over the vent to keep the priming dry; -- now called an apron.  -- Cap in hand, obsequiously; submissively.  -- Cap of liberty. See Liberty cap, under Liberty.  -- Cap of maintenance, a cap of state carried before the kings of England at the coronation. It is also carried before the mayors of some cities.  -- Cap money, money collected in a cap for the huntsman at the death of the fox.  -- Cap paper. (a) A kind of writing paper including flat cap, foolsap, and legal cap. (b) A coarse wrapping paper used for making caps to hold commodities. Cap rock (Mining), The layer of rock next overlying ore, generally of barren vein material.  -- Flat cap, cap See Foolscap.  -- Forage cap, the cloth undress head covering of an officer of soldier.  -- Legal cap, a kind of folio writing paper, made for the use of lawyers, in long narrow sheets which have the fold at the top or "narrow edge." -- To set one's cap, to make a fool of one. (Obs.) Chaucer.  -- To set one's cap for, to try to win the favor of a man with a view to marriage. [Colloq.] 

CAP:  To uncover the head respectfully. Shak. 

CAPABLENESS:  The quality or state of being capable; capability; adequateness; competency. 

CAPACIFY:  To quality. [R.] The benefice he is capacified and designed for. Barrow. 

CAPACIOUSLY:  In a capacious manner or degree; comprehensively. 

CAPACIOUSNESS:  The quality of being capacious, as of a vessel, a reservoir a bay, the mind, etc. 

CAPACITATE:  To render capable; to enable; to qualify. By thih instruction we may be capaciated to observe those errors. Dryden. 

CAPACITY:  Legal or noral qualification, as of age, residence, character, etc., necessary for certain purposes, as for holding office, for marrying, for making contracts, will, etc.; legal power or right; competency. Capacity for heat, the power of absorbing heat. Substances differ in the amount of heat requisite to raise them a given number of thermometric degrees, and this difference is the measure of, or depends upon, whzt is called their capacity for heat. See Specific heat, under Heat.  Syn.  -- Ability; faculty; talent; capability; skill; efficiency; cleverness. See Ability. 

CAPAPE:  See Cap-a-pie. Shak. 

CAPAPIE:  From head to foot; at all points. "He was armed cap-a-pie." Prescott. 

CAPARRO:  A large South American monkey (Lagothrix Humboldtii), with prehensile tail. 

CAPCASE:  A small traveling case or bandbox; formerly, a chest. A capcase for your linen and your plate. Beau. & Fl. 

CAPE:  A piece or point of land, extending beyind the adjacent coast into the sea or a lake; a promonotory; a headland. Cape buffalo (Zoöl.) a large and powerful buffalo of South Africa (Bubalus Caffer). It is said to be the most dangerous wild beast of Africa. See Buffalo, 2.  -- Cape jasmine, Cape jassamine. See Jasmine.  -- Cape pigeon (Zoöl.), a petrel (Daptium Capense) common off the Cape of Good Hope. It is about the size of a pigeon.  -- Cape wine, wine made in South Africa [Eng.] -- The Cape, the Cape of Good Hope, in the general sense of southern extremity of Africa. Also used of Cape Horn, and, in New England, of Cape Cod. 

CAPE:  To head or point; to keep a course; as, the ship capes southwest by south. 

CAPE:  A sleeveless garment or part of a garment, hanging from the neck over the back, arms, and shoulders, but not reaching below the hips. See Cloak. 

CAPE:  To gape. [Obs.] Chaucer.  CAPEL; CAPLE Ca"pel, Ca"ple, n. Etym: [Icel. kapall; cf. L. caballus.]  A horse; a nag. [Obs.] Chaucer. Holland. 

CAPEL:  A composite stone (quartz, schorl, and hornlende) in the walls of tin and copper lodes. 

CAPELAN:  See Capelin. 

CAPELIN:  A small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the family Salmonidæ, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland, Newfoundland, and Alaska. It is used as a bait for the cod. [Written also capelan and caplin.]  Note: This fish, which is like a smelt, is called by the Spaniards anchova, and by the Portuguese capelina. Fisheries of U. S. (1884). 

CAPELINE:  A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump of an amputated limb. 

CAPELLA:  A brilliant star in the constellation Auriga. 

CAPELLANE:  The curate of a chapel; a chaplain. [Obs.] Fuller. 

CAPELLE:  The private orchestra or band of a prince or of a church. 

CAPELLET:  A swelling, like a wen, on the point of the elbow (or the heel of the hock) of a horse, caused probably by bruises in lying dowm. 

CAPELLMEISTER:  The musical director in royal or ducal chapel; a choirmaster. [Written also kepellmeister.] 

CAPER:  To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; to skip; to spring; to prance; to dance. He capers, he dances, he has eyes of youth. Shak. 

CAPER:  A frolicsome leap or spring; a skip; a jump, as in mirth or dancing; a prank. To cut a caper, to frolic; to make a sportive spring; to play a prank. Shak. 

CAPER:  A vessel formerly used by the Dutch, privateer. Wright. 

CAPER:  A plant of the genus Capparis; -- called also caper bush, caper tree.  Note: The Capparis spinosa is a low prickly shrub of the Mediterranean coasts, with trailing branches and brilliant flowers; - - cultivated in the south of Europe for its buds. The C. sodada is an almost leafless spiny shrub of central Africa (Soudan), Arabia, and southern India, with edible berries. Bean caper. See Bran caper, in the Vocabulary.  -- Caper sauce, a kind of sauce or catchup made of capers. 

CAPERBERRY:  See Capper, a plant, 2.  CAPERCAILZIE; CAPERCALLY Ca"per*cail`zie, or Ca"per*cal`ly, n. Etym: [Gael, capulcoile.] (Zoöl.)  A species of grouse (Tetrao uragallus) of large size and fine flavor, found in northern Europe and formerly in Scotland; -- called also cock of the woods. [Written also capercaillie, capercaili.] 

CAPERCLAW:  To treat with cruel playfulness, as a cat treats a mouse; to abuse. [Obs.] Birch. 

CAPERER:  One who capers, leaps, and skips about, or dances. The nimble capperer on the cord. Dryden. 

CAPFUL:  As much as will fill a cap. A capful of wind (Naut.), a light puff of wind. 

CAPIAS:  A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body of the person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writ of capias.  Note: One principal kind of capias is a writ by which actions at law are frequently commenced; another is a writ of execution issued after judgment to satisfy damages recovered; a capias in criminal law is the process to take a person charged on an indictment, when he is not in custody. Burrill. Wharton. 

CAPIBARA:  See Capybara. 

CAPILLACEOUS:  Having long filaments; resembling a hair; slender. See Capillary. 

CAPILLAMENT:  A filament. [R.]  2. (Anat.)  Any villous or hairy covering; a fine fiber or filament, as of the nerves. 

CAPILLARINESS:  The quality of being capillary. 

CAPILLARITY:  The peculiar action by which the surface of a liquid, where it is in contact with a solid (as in a capillary tube), is elevated or depressed; capillary attraction.  Note: Capillarity depends upon the relative attaction of the modecules of the liquid for each other and for those of the solid, and is especially observable in capillary tubes, where it determines the ascent or descent of the liquid above or below the level of the liquid which the tube is dipped; -- hence the name. 

CAPILLARY:  A minute, thin-walled vessel; particularly one of the smallest blood vessels connecting arteries and veins, but used also for the smallest lymphatic and biliary vessels. 

CAPILLATION:  A capillary blood vessel. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CAPILLATURE:  A bush of hair; frizzing of the hair. Clarke. 

CAPILLIFORM:  In the shape or form of, a hair, or of hairs. 

CAPILLOSE:  Having much hair; hairy. [R.] 

CAPISTRATE:  Hooded; cowled. 

CAPITAL:  The head or uppermost member of a column, pilaster, etc. It consists generally of three parts, abacus, bell (or vase), and necking. See these terms, and Column.  2. Etym: [Cf. F. capilate, fem., sc. ville.] (Geog.)  The seat of government; the chief city or town in a country; a metropolis. "A busy and splendid capital" Macauly.  3. Etym: [Cf. F. capital.]  Money, property, or stock employed in trade, manufactures, etc.; the sum invested or lent, as distinguished from the income or interest. See Capital stock, under Capital, a.  4. (Polit. Econ.)  That portion of the produce of industry, which may be directly employed either to support human beings or to assist in production. M'Culloch.  Note: When wealth is used to assist production it is called capital. The capital of a civilized community includes fixed capital (i.e. buildings, machines, and roads used in the course of production and exchange) amd circulating capital (i.e., food, fuel, money, etc., spent in the course of production and exchange). T. Raleing.  5. Anything which can be used to increase one's power or influence. He tried to make capital out of his rival's discomfiture. London Times.  6. (Fort.)  An imaginary line dividing a bastion, ravelin, or other work, into two equal parts.  7. A chapter, or section, of a book. [Obs.] Holy St. Bernard hath said in the 59th capital. Sir W. Scott.  8. (Print.)  See Capital letter, under Capital, a. Active capital. See under Active, -- Small capital (Print.), a small capital letter. See under Capital, a.  -- To live on one's capital, to consume one's capital without producing or accumulating anything to replace it. 

CAPITALIST:  One who has capital; one who has money for investment, or money invested; esp. a person of large property, which is employed in business. The expenditure of the capitalist. Burke. 

CAPITALIZATION:  The act or process of capitalizing. 

CAPITALNESS:  The quality of being capital; preeminence. [R.]  CAPITAN PASHA; CAPITAN PACHA Ca`pi*tan` Pa*sha` or Pa*cha`. Etym: [See capitan.]  The chief admiral of the Turkish fleet. 

CAPITATE:  Having the flowers gathered into a head. 

CAPITATIM:  Of so much per head; as, a capitatim tax; a capitatim grant. 

CAPITE:  See under Tenant. 

CAPITELLATE:  Having a very small knoblike termination, or collected into minute capitula. 

CAPITIBRANCHIATA:  A division of annelids in which the gills arise from or near the head. See Tubicola. 

CAPITOL:  Of or pertaining to the Capitol in Rome. "Capitolian Jove." Macaulay. Capitoline games (Antiq.), annual games instituted at Rome by Camillus, in honor of Jupter Capitolinus, on account of the preservation of the Capitol from the Gauls; when reinstituted by Domitian, arter a period of neglect, they were held every fifth year. 

CAPITULA:  See Capitulum. 

CAPITULAR:  Of or pertaining to a chapter; capitulary. From the pope to the member of the capitular body. Milman.  2. (Bot.)  Growing in, or pertaining to, a capitulum.  3. (Anat.)  Pertaining to a capitulum; as, the capitular process of a vetebra, the process which articulates with the capitulum of a rib. 

CAPITULARLY:  In the manner or form of an ecclesiastical chapter. Sterne. 

CAPITULARY:  Relating to the chapter of a cathedral; capitular. "Capitulary acts." Warton. 

CAPITULATE:  To surrender or transfer, as an army or a fortress, on certain conditions. [R.] 

CAPITULATOR:  One who capitulates. 

CAPITULE:  A summary. [Obs.] 

CAPITULUM:  A knobike protuberance of any part, esp. at the end of a bone or cartilage.  Note: [See Illust. of Artiodactyla.] 

CAPIVI:  A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba. 

CAPLE:  See Capel. 

CAPLIN:  See Capelin.  CAPLIN; CAPLING Cap"lin, Cap"ling, n.  The cap or coupling of a flail, through which the thongs pass which connect the handle and swingel. Wright. 

CAPNOMANCY:  Divination by means of the ascent or motion of smoke. 

CAPNOMOR:  A limpid, colorless oil with a peculiar odor, obtained from beech tar. Watts. 

CAPOC:  A sort of cotton so short and fine thet it can not be spun, used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc. 

CAPOCH:  A hood; especialy, the hood attached to the gown of a monk. 

CAPOCH:  To cover with, or as with, a hood; hence, to hoodwink or blind. Hudibras. 

CAPON:  A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded to improve his flesh for the table. Shak. The merry thought of a capon. W. Irving. 

CAPON:  To castrate; to make a capon of. 

CAPONET:  A young capon. [R.] Chapman. 

CAPONIERE:  A work made across or in the ditch, to protect it from the enemy, or to serve as a covered passageway. 

CAPONIZE:  To castrate, as a fowl. 

CAPORAL:  One who directs work; an overseer. [Sp. Amer.] 

CAPOT:  A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet. It counts for forty points. Hoyle. 

CAPOT:  To win all the tricks from, in playing at piquet.  CAPO TASTO Ca"po tas"to. [It. capotasto.] (Music)  A sort of bar or movable nut, attached to the finger board of a guitar or other  fretted instrument for the purpose of raising uniformly the pitch of all the strings. 

CAPOTE:  A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood. 

CAPOUCH:  Same as Capoch. 

CAPPADINE:  A floss or waste obtained from the cocoon after the silk has been reeled off, used for shag. 

CAPPAPER:  See cap, n., also Paper, n. 

CAPPEAK:  The front piece of a cap; -- now more commonly called visor. 

CAPPELINE:  A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump of an amputated limb. 

CAPPELLA:  See A cappella. 

CAPPER:  A plane used for working the upper surface of staircase rails. 

CAPRA:  A genus of ruminants, including the common goat. 

CAPRATE:  A salt of capric acid. 

CAPREOLATE:  Having a tendril or tendrils. 

CAPREOLINE:  Of or pertaining to the roebuck. 

CAPRI:  Wine produced on the island of Capri, commonly a light, dry, white wine. 

CAPRIC:  Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives. Capric acid, C9H9.CO2H, Caprylic acid, C7H15.CO2H, and Caproic acid, C5H11.CO2H, are fatty acids occurring in small quantities in butter, cocoanut oil, etc., united with glycerin; they are colorless oils, or white crystalline solids, of an unpleasant odor like that of goats or sweat. 

CAPRICCIO:  A piece in a free form, with frequent digressions from the theme; a fantasia; -- often called caprice.  2. A caprice; a freak; a fancy. Shak. 

CAPRICE:  See Capriccio.  Syn.  -- Freak; whim; crotchet; fancy; vagary; humor; whimsey; fickleness.  CAPRICIOSO; CAPRICCIOSO Ca*pri*cio"so, Ca*pric*cio"so, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus)  In a free, fantastic style. 

CAPRICIOUS:  Governed or characterized by caprice; apt to change suddenly; freakish; whimsical; changeable. "Capricious poet." Shak. "Capricious humor." Hugh Miller. A capricious partiality to the Romish practices. Hallam.  Syn.  -- Freakish; whimsical; fanciful; fickle; crotchety; fitful; wayward; changeable; unsteady; uncertain; inconstant; arbitrary.  -- Ca*pri"cious*ly, adv.  -- Ca*pri"cious*ness, n. 

CAPRICORN:  The tenth sign of zodiac, into which the sun enters at the winter solstice, about December 21. See Tropic. The sun was entered into Capricorn. Dryden.  2. (Astron.)  A southern constellation, represented on ancient monuments by the figure of a goat, or a figure with its fore part like a fish. Capricorn beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle of the family Carambucidæ; one of the long-horned beetles. The larvæ usually bore into the wood or bark of trees and shurbs and are often destructive. See Girdler, Pruner. 

CAPRID:  Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat, or genus Capra, is the type. 

CAPRIFICATION:  The practice of hanging, upon the cultivated fig tree, branches of the wild fig infested with minute hymenopterous insects.  Note: It is supposed that the little insects insure fertilization by carrying the pollen from the male flowers near the opening of the fig down to the female flowers, and also accelerate ripening the fruit by puncturing it. The practice has existed since ancient times, but its benefit has been disputed. 

CAPRIFOLE:  The woodbine or honeysuckle. Spenser. 

CAPRIFOLIACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Honeysuckle family of plants (Caprifoliacæ. 

CAPRIFORM:  Having the form of a goat. 

CAPRIGENOUS:  Of the goat kind. 

CAPRINE:  Of or pertaining to a goat; as, caprine gambols. 

CAPRIOLE:  A leap that a horse makes with all fours, upwards only, without advancing, but with a kick or jerk of the hind legs when at the height of the leap.  2. A leap or caper, as in dancing. "With lofty turns and caprioles." Sir J. Davies. 

CAPRIOLE:  To perform a capriole. Carlyle. 

CAPRIPED:  Having feet like those of a goat. 

CAPROATE:  A salt of caproic acid. 

CAPROIC:  See under Capric. 

CAPRYLATE:  A salt of caprylic acid. 

CAPRYLIC:  See under Capric. 

CAPSAICIN:  A colorless crystalline substance extracted from the Capsicum annuum, and giving off vapors of intense acridity. 

CAPSHEAF:  The top sheaf of a stack of grain: (fig.) the crowning or finishing part of a thing. 

CAPSICIN:  A red liquid or soft resin extracted from various species of capsicum. 

CAPSICINE:  A valatile alkaloid extracted from Capsicum annuum or from capsicin. 

CAPSICUM:  A genus of plants of many species, producing capsules or dry berries of various forms, which have an exceedingly pungent, biting taste, and when ground form the red of Cayenne pepper of commerce.  Note: The most important species are Capsicum baccatum or birs pepper. C, annuum or chili pepper, C. frutesens or spur pepper, and C. annuum or Guinea pepeer, which includes the bell pepper and other common garden varieties. The fruit is much used, both in its green and ripe state, in pickles and in cookery. See Cayenne pepper. 

CAPSIZE:  To upset or overturn, as a vessel or other body. But what if carrying sail capsize the boat Byron. 

CAPSIZE:  An upset or overturn. 

CAPSQUARE:  A metal covering plate which passes over the trunnions of a cannon, and holds it in place. 

CAPSTAN:  A vertical cleated drum or cylinder, revolving on an upright spindle, and surmounted by a drumhead with sockets for bars or levers. It is much used, especially on shipboard, for moving or raising heavy weights or exerting great power by traction upon a rope or cable, passing around the drum. It is operated either by steam power or by a number of men walking around the capstan, each pushing on the end of a lever fixed in its socket. [Sometimes spelt Capstern, but improperly.] Capstan bar, one of the long bars or levers by which the capstan is worked; a handspike..  -- To pawl the capstan, to drop the pawls so that they will catch in the notches of the pawl ring, and prevent the capstan from turning back.  -- To rig the capstan, to prepare the for use, by putting the bars in the sockets.  -- To surge the capstan, to slack the tension of the rope or cable wound around it. 

CAPSTONE:  A fossil echinus of the genus Cannulus; -- so called from its supposed resemblance to a cap.  CAPSULAR; CAPSULARY Cap"su*lar, Cap"su*la*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. capsulaire.]  Of or pertaining to a capsule; having the nature of a capsula; hollow and fibrous. Capsular ligament (Anat.), a ligamentous bag or capsule surrounding many movable joints in the skeleton.  CAPSULATE; CAPSULATED Cap"su*late, Cap"su*la`ted, a.  Inclosed in a capsule, or as in a chest or box. 

CAPSULE:  a dry fruit or pod which is made up of several parts or carpels, and opens to discharge the seeds, as, the capsule of the poppy, the flax, the lily, etc.  2. (Chem.) (a) A small saucer of clay for roasting or melting samples of ores, etc.; a scorifier. (b) a small, shallow, evaporating dish, usually of porcelain.  3. (Med.)  A small cylindrical or spherical gelatinous envelope in which nauseous or acrid doses are inclosed to be swallowed.  4. (Anat.)  A membranous sac containing fluid, or investing an organ or joint; as, the capsule of the lens of the eye. Also, a capsulelike organ.  5. A metallic seal or cover for closing a bottle,  6. A small cup or shell, as of metal, for a percussion cap, cartridge, etc. Atrabiliary capsule. See under Atrabiliary.  -- Glisson's capsule, a membranous envelope, entering the liver along with the portal vessels and insheathing the latter in their course through the organ.  -- Suprarenal capsule, an organ of unknown function, above or in front of each kidney. 

CAPSULITIS:  Inflammation of a capsule, as that of the crystalline lens. 

CAPSULOTOMY:  The incision of a capsule, esp. of that of the crystalline lens, as in a cataract operation. 

CAPTAIN:  To act as captain of; to lead. [R.] Men who captained or accompanied the exodus from existing forms. Lowell. 

CAPTAIN:  Chief; superior. [R.] captain jewes in the carcanet. Shak. 

CAPTAINCY:  The rank, post, or commission of a captain. Washington. Captaincy general, the office, power, teritory, or jurisdiction of a captain general; as, the captaincy general of La Habana (Cuba and its islands). 

CAPTAINRY:  Power, or command, over a certain district; chieftainship. [Obs.] 

CAPTATION:  A courting of favor or applause, by flattery or address; a captivating quality; an attraction. [Obs.] Without any of those dresses, or popular captations, which some men use in their speeches. Eikon Basilike. 

CAPTION:  That part of a legal instrument, as a commission, indictment, etc., which shows where, when, and by what authority, it taken, found, or executed. Bouvier. Wharton.  4. The heading of a chapter, section, or page. [U. S.] 

CAPTIOUSLY:  In a captious manner. 

CAPTIOUSNESS:  Captious disposition or manner. 

CAPTIVATE:  Taken prisoner; made captive; insnared; charmed. Women have been captivate ere now. Shak. 

CAPTIVATING:  Having power to captivate or cham; fascinating; as, captivating smiles.  -- Cap"tiva`ting*ly, adv. 

CAPTIVATION:  The act of captivating. [R.] The captivation of our understanding. Bp. Hall. 

CAPTIVE:  To take prisoner; to capture. Their inhabitans slaughtered and captived. Burke. 

CAPTOR:  One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize. 

CAPTURE:  To seize or take possession of by force, surprise, or stratagem; to overcome and hold; to secure by effort. Her heart is like some fortress that has been captured. W. Ivring. 

CAPUCCIO:  A capoch or hood. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CAPUCHED:  Cover with, or as with, a hood. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CAPUCHIN:  A Franciscan monk of the austere branch established in 1526 by Matteo di Baschi, distinguished by wearing the long pointed cowl or capoch of St. Francis. A bare-footed and long-bearded capuchin. Sir W. Scott.  2. A garment for women, consisting of a cloak and hood, resembling, or supposed to resemble, that of capuchin monks.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) A long-tailed South American monkey (Cabus capucinus), having the forehead naked and wrinkled, with the hair on the crown reflexed and resembling a monk's cowl, the rest being of a grayish white; -- called also capucine monkey, weeper, sajou, sapajou, and sai. (b) Other species of Cabus, as C. fatuellus (the brown or horned capucine.), C. albifrons (the cararara), and C. apella. (c) A variety of the domestic pigeon having a hoodlike tuft of feathers on the head and sides of the neck. Capuchin nun, one of an austere order of Franciscan nuns which came under Capuchin rule in 1538. The order had recently been founded by Maria Longa. 

CAPUCINE:  See Capuchin, 3. 

CAPULET:  Same as Capellet. 

CAPULIN:  The Mexican chery (Prunus Capollin). 

CAPUT:  The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum.  2. The top or superior part of a thing.  3. (Eng.)  The council or ruling body of the University of Cambridge prior to the constitution of 1856. Your caputs and heads of colleges. Lamb. Caput mortuum (. Etym: [L., dead head.] (Old Chem.) The residuum after distillation or sublimation; hence, worthless residue. 

CAPYBARA:  A large South American rodent (Hydrochærus capybara) Living on the margins of lakes and rivers. It is the largest extant rodent, being about three feet long, and half that in height. It somewhat resembles the Guinea pig, to which it is related; -- called also cabiai and water hog. 

CAR:  The stars also called Charles's Wain, the Great Bear, or the Dipper. The Pleiads, Hyads, and the Northern Car. Dryden.  5. The cage of a lift or elevator.  6. The basket, box, or cage suspended from a ballon to contain passengers, ballast, etc.  7. A floating perforated box for living fish. [U. S.] Car coupling, or Car coupler, a shackle or other device for connecting the cars in a railway train. [U. S.] -- Dummy car (Railroad), a car containing its own steam power or locomotive.  -- Freight car (Railrood), a car for the transportation of merchandise or other goods. [U. S.] -- Hand car (Railroad), a small car propelled by hand, used by railroad laborers, etc. [U. S.] -- Horse car, or Street car, an ommibus car, draw by horses or other power upon rails laid in the streets. [U. S.] -- Palace car, Drawing- room car, Sleeping car, Parior caretc. , (Railroad), cars especially designed and furnished for the comfort of travelers. 

CARABAO:  The water buffalo. [Phil. Islands] 

CARABID:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Carbus or family Carabidæ.  -- n.  One of the Carabidæ, a family of active insectivorous beetles. 

CARABINE:  A carbine. 

CARABINEER:  A carbineer. 

CARABOID:  Like, or pertaining to the genus Carabus. 

CARABUS:  A genus of ground beetles, including numerous species. They devour many injurious insects. 

CARAC:  See Carack. 

CARACAL:  A lynx (Felis, or Lynx, caracal.) It is a native of Africa and Asia. Its ears are black externally, and tipped with long black hairs. 

CARACARA:  A south American bird of several species and genera, resembling both the eagles and the vultures. The caracaras act as scavengers, and are also called carrion buzzards.  Note: The black caracara is Ibycter ater; the chimango is Milvago chimango; the Brazilian is Polyborus Braziliensis. 

CARACK:  A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon. [Spelt also carrack.] The bigger whale like some huge carrack law. Waller. 

CARACOLE:  A half turn which a horseman makes, either to the right or the left.  2. (Arch.)  A staircase in a spiral form. En caracole ( Etym: [F.], spiral; -- said of a staircase. 

CARACOLE:  To move in a caracole, or in caracoles; to wheel. Prince John caracoled within the lists. Sir W. Scott. 

CARACOLY:  An alloy of gold, silver, and copper, of which an inferior quality of jewerly is made.  CARACORE; CARACORA Car"a*core, Car"a*co`ra, n. Etym: [Malay kurakura.]  A light vessel or proa used by the people of Borneo, etc., and by the Dutch in the East Indies. 

CARACUL:  Var. of Karakul, a kind of fur. 

CARAFE:  A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called also croft.  CARAGEEN; CARAGHEEN Car"a*geen` or Car"a*gheen`, n.  See Carrageen. 

CARAMBOLA:  An East Indian tree (Averrhoa Carambola), and its acid, juicy fruit; called also Coromandel gooseberry. 

CARAMEL:  Burnt sugar; a brown or black porous substance obtained by heating sugar. It is soluble in water, and is used for coloring spirits, gravies, etc.  2. A kind of confectionery, usually a small cube or square of tenacious paste, or candy, of varying composition and flavor. 

CARANGOID:  Belonging to the Carangidæ, a family of fishes allied to the mackerels, and including the caranx, American bluefish, and the pilot fish. 

CARANX:  A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including the yellow or goldon mackerel. 

CARAPACE:  The thick shell or sheild which cover the back of the tortoise, or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals. 

CARAPATO:  A south American tick of the genus Amblyamma. There are several species, very troublesome to man and beast. 

CARAPAX:  See Carapace. 

CARAVANEER:  The leader or driver of the camels in caravan. 

CARAVANSARY:  A kind of inn, in the East, where caravans rest at night, being a large, rude, unfurnished building, surrounding a court. [Written also caravanserai and caravansera.] 

CARAVEL:  A name given to several kinds of vessels. (a) The caravel of the 16th century was a small vessel with broad bows, high, narrow poop, four masts, and lateen sails. Columbus commanded three caravels on his great voyage. (b) A Portuguese vessel of 100 or 150 tons burden. (c) A small fishing boat used on the French coast. (d) A Turkish man-of-war. 

CARAWAY:  A biennial plant of the Parsley family (Carum Carui). The seeds have an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste. They are used in cookery and confectionery, and also in medicine as a carminative.  2. A cake or sweetmeat containing caraway seeds. Caraways, or biscuits, or some other [comfits]. Cogan. 

CARBAMIC:  Pertaining to an acid so called. Carbamic acid (Chem.), an amido acid, NH2.CO2H, not existing in the free state, but occurring as a salt of ammonium in commercial ammonium carbonate; -- called also amido formic acid. 

CARBAMIDE:  The technical name for urea. 

CARBAMINE:  An isocyanide of a hydrocarbon radical. The carbamines are liquids, usually colorless, and of unendurable odor. 

CARBANIL:  A mobile liquid, CO.N.C6H5, of pungent odor. It is the phenyl salt of isocyanic acid. 

CARBAZOL:  A white crystallized substance, C12H8NH, derived from aniline and other amines. 

CARBAZOTATE:  A salt of carbazotic or picric acid; a picrate. 

CARBAZOTIC:  Containing, or derived from, carbon and nitrogen. Carbazotic acid (Chem.), picric acid. See under Picric. 

CARBIDE:  A binary compound of carbon with some other element or radical, in which the carbon plays the part of a negative; -- formerly termed carburet. 

CARBIMIDE:  The technical name for isocyanic acid. See under Isocyanic. 

CARBINE:  A short, light musket or rifle, esp. one used by mounted soldiers or cavalry. 

CARBINEER:  A soldier armed with a carbine. 

CARBINOL:  Methyl alcohol, CH3OH; -- also, by extension, any one in the homologous series of paraffine alcohols of which methyl alcohol is the type. 

CARBOHYDRATE:  One of a group of compounds including the sugars, starches, and gums, which contain six (or some multiple of six) carbon atoms, united with a variable number of hydrogen and oxygen atoms, but with the two latter always in proportion as to form water; as dextrose, C6H12O6. 

CARBOHYDRIDE:  A hydrocarbon. 

CARBOLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from coal tar and other sources; as, carbolic acid (called also phenic acid, and phenol). See Phenol. 

CARBOLIZE:  To apply carbonic acid to; to wash or treat with carbolic acid. 

CARBON:  An elementary substance, not metallic in its nature, which is present in all organic compounds. Atomic weight 11.97. Symbol C. it is combustible, and forms the base of lampblack and charcoal, and enters largely into mineral coals. In its pure crystallized state it constitutes the diamond, the hardest of known substances, occuring in monometric crystals like the octahedron, etc. Another modification is graphite, or blacklead, and in this it is soft, and occurs in hexagonal prisms or tables. When united with oxygen it forms carbon dioxide, commonly called carbonic acid, or carbonic oxide, according to the proportions of the oxygen; when united with hydrogen, it forms various compounds called hydrocarbons. Compare Diamond, and Graphite. Carbon compounds, Compounds of carbon (Chem.), those compounds consisting largely of carbon, commonly produced by animals and plants, and hence called organic compounds, though their synthesis may be effected in many cases in the laboratory. The formation of the compounds of carbon is not dependent upon the life process. I. Remsen -Carbon dioxide, Carbon monoxide. (Chem.) See under Carbonic.  -- Carbon light (Elec.), an extremely brilliant electric light produced by passing a galvanic current through two carbon points kept constantly with their apexes neary in contact.  -- Carbon point (Elec.), a small cylinder or bit of gas carbon moved forward by clockwork so that, as it is burned away by the electric current, it shall contantly maintain its proper relation to the opposing point.  -- Carbon tissue, paper coated with gelatine and pigment, used in the autotype process of photography. Abney.  -- Gas carbon, a compact variety of carbon obtained as an incrustation on the interior of gas retorts, and used for the manufacture of the carbon rods of pencils for the voltaic, arc, and for the plates of voltaic batteries, etc. 

CARBONACEOUS:  Pertaining to, containing, or composed of, carbon.  CARBONADE; CARBONADO Car"bo*nade, Car`bo*na"do, n. Etym: [Cf. F. carbonnade, It. carbonata, Sp. carbonada, from L. carbo coal.] (Cookery)  Flesh, fowl, etc., cut across, seasoned, and broiled on coals; a chop. [Obs.]  CARBONADO; CARBONADE Car`bo*na"do, Car"bo*nade, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carbonadoed; p. pr. & vb. n. Carbonadoing.]  1. To cut (meat) across for frying or broiling; to cut or slice and broil. [Obs.] A short-legged hen daintily carbonadoed. Bean. & Fl.  2. To cut or hack, as in fighting. [Obs.] I'll so carbonado your shanks. Shak. 

CARBONADO:  A black variety of diamond, found in Brazil, and used for diamond drills. It occurs in irregular or rounded fragments, rarely distinctly crystallized, with a texture varying from compact to porous. 

CARBONARISM:  The principles, practices, or organization of the Carbonari. 

CARBONARO:  A member of a secret political association in Italy, organized in the early part of the nineteenth centry for the purpose of changing the government into a republic.  Note: The origin of the Carbonari is uncertain, but the society is said to have first met, in 1808, among the charcoal burners of the mountains, whose phraseology they adopted. 

CARBONATATION:  The saturation of defecated beet juice with carbonic acid gas. Knight. 

CARBONATE:  A salt or carbonic acid, as in limestone, some forms of lead ore, etc. 

CARBONATED:  Combined or impregnated with carbonic acid. 

CARBONE:  To broil. [Obs.] "We had a calf's head carboned". Pepys. 

CARBONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, carbon; as, carbonic oxide. Carbonic acid (Chem.), an acid H2CO3, not existing separately, which, combined with positive or basic atoms or radicals, forms carbonates. On common language the term is very generally applied to a compound of carbon and oxygen, CO2, more correctly called carbon dioxide. It is a colorless, heavy, irrespirable gas, extinguishing flame, and when breathed destroys life. It can be reduced to a liquid and solid form by intense pressure. It is produced in the fermentation of liquors, and by the combustion and decomposition of organic substances, or other substances containing carbon. It is formed in the explosion of fire damp in mines, and is hance called after damp; it is also know as choke damp, and mephilic air. Water will absorb its own volume of it, and more than this under pressure, and in this state becomes the common soda water of the shops, and the carbonated water of natural springs. Combined with lime it constitutes limestone, or common marble and chalk. Plants imbibe it for their nutrition and growth, the carbon being retained and the oxygen given out.  -- Carbonic oxide (Chem.), a colorless gas, CO, of a light odor, called more correctly carbon monoxide. It is almost the only definitely known compound in which carbon seems to be divalent. It is a product of the incomplete combustion of carbon, and is an abundant constituent of water gas. It is fatal to animal life, extinguishes combustion, and burns with a pale blue flame, forming carbon dioxide. 

CARBONIDE:  A carbide. [R.] 

CARBONIFEROUS:  Producing or containing carbon or coal. Carboniferous age (Geol.), the age immediately following the Devonian, or Age of fishes, and characterized by the vegatation which formed the coal beds. This age embraces three periods, the Subcarboniferous, the Carboniferous, and Permian. See Age of acrogens, under Acrogen.  -- Carboniferous formation (Geol.), the series of rocks (including sandstones, shales, limestones, and conglomerates, with beds of coal) which make up the strata of the Carboniferous age or period. See the Diagram under Geology. 

CARBONITE:  An explosive consisting essentially of nitroglycerin, wood meal, and some nitrate, as that of sodium.  2.  An explosive composed of nitrobenzene, saltpeter, sulphur, and kieselguhr. 

CARBONIZATION:  The act or process of carbonizing. 

CARBONOMETER:  An instrument for detecting and measuring the amount of carbon which is present, or more esp. the amount of carbon dioxide, by its action on limewater or by other means.  CARBON PROCESS Car"bon process. (Photog.)  A printing process depending on the effect of light on bichromatized gelatin. Paper coated with a mixture of the gelatin and a pigment is called carbon paper or carbon tissue. This is exposed under a negative and the film is transferred from the paper to some other support and developed by washing (the unexposed portions being dissolved away). If the process stops here it is called single transfer; if the image is afterward transferred in order to give an unreversed print, the method is called double transfer.  CARBON STEEL Carbon steel.  Steel deriving its qualities from carbon chiefly, without the presence of other alloying elements; --opposed to alloy steel.  CARBON TRANSMITTER Carbon transmitter.  A telephone transmitter in which a carbon contact is used. 

CARBONYL:  The radical (CO)'\'b7, occuring, always combined, in many compounds, as the aldehydes, the ketones, urea, carbonyl chloride, etc.  Note: Though denoted by a formula identical with that of carbon monoxide, it is chemically distinct, as carbon seems to be divalent in carbon monoxide, but tetravalent in carbonyl compounds. Carbonyl chloride (Chem.), a colorless gas, COCl2, of offensive odor, and easily condensable to liquid. It is formed from chlorine and carbon monoxide, under the influence of light, and hence has been called phosgene gas; -- called also carbon oxychloride. 

CARBORUNDUM:  A beautiful crystalline compound, SiC, consisting of carbon and silicon in combination; carbon silicide. It is made by heating carbon and sand together in an electric furnace. The commercial article is dark-colored and iridescent. It is harder than emery, and is used as an abrasive.  CARBORUNDUM CLOTH; CARBORUNDUM PAPER Carborundum cloth or paper.  Cloth or paper covered with powdered carborundum. 

CARBOSTYRIL:  A white crystalline substance, C9H6N.OH, of acid properties derived from one of the amido cinnamic acids. 

CARBOXIDE:  A compound of carbon and oxygen, as carbonyl, with some element or radical; as, potassium carboxide. Potassium carboxide, a grayish explosive crystalline compound, C6O6K, obtained by passing carbon monoxide over heated potassium. 

CARBOXYL:  The complex radical, CO.OH, regarded as the essential and characteristic constituent which all oxygen acids of carbon (as formic, acetic, benzoic acids, etc.) have in common; -- called also oxatyl. 

CARBOY:  A large, globular glass bottle, esp. one of green glass, inclosed in basket work or in a box, for protection; -- used commonly for carrying corrosive liquids; as sulphuric acid, etc. 

CARBUNCLE:  A beautiful gem of a deep red color (with a mixture of scarlet) called by the Greeks anthrax; found in the East Indies. When held up to the sun, it loses its deep tinge, and becomes of the color of burning coal. The name belongs for the most part to ruby sapphire, though it has been also given to red spinel and garnet.  2. (Med.)  A very painful acute local inflammation of the subcutaneous tissue, esp. of the trunk or back of the neck, characterized by brawny hardness of the affected parts, sloughing of the skin and deeper tissues, and marked constitutional depression. It differs from a boil in size, tendency to spread, and the absence of a central core, and is frequently fatal. It is also called anthrax.  3. (Her.)  A charge or bearing supposed to represent the precious stone. It has eight scepters or staves radiating from a common center. Called also escarbuncle. 

CARBUNCULAR:  Belonging to a carbuncle; resembling a carbuncle; red; inflamed. 

CARBUNCULATION:  The blasting of the young buds of trees or plants, by excessive heat or caold. Harris. 

CARBURET:  A carbide. See Carbide [Archaic] 

CARBURET:  To combine or to impregnate with carbon, as by passing through or over a liquid hydrocarbon; to carbonize or carburize. By carbureting the gas you may use poorer coal. Knight. 

CARBURETANT:  Any volatile liquid used in charging illuminating gases. 

CARBURETED:  Combined with carbon in the manner of a carburet or carbide.  2. Saturated or impregnated with some volatile carbon compound; as, water gas is carbureted to increase its illuminating power. [Written also carburetted.] Carbureted hydrogen gas, any one of several gaseous compounds of carbon and hydrogen, some of with make up illuminating gas.  -- Light carbureted hydrogen, marsh gas, CH4; fire damp. 

CARBURETOR:  An apparatus in which coal gas, hydrogen, or air is passed through or over a volatile hydrocarbon, in order to confer or increase illuminating power. [Written also carburettor.]  CARBURETOR; CARBURETTOR Car"bu*ret`or, Car"bu*ret`tor, n.  One that carburets; specif., an apparatus in which air or gas is carbureted, as by passing it through a light petroleum oil. The carburetor for a gasoline engine is usually either a surface carburetor, or a float, float-feed, or spray, carburetor. In the former air is charged by being passed over the surface of gasoline. In the latter a fine spray of gasoline is drawn from an atomizing nozzle by a current of air induced by the suction of the engine piston, the supply of gasoline being regulated by a float which actuates a needle valve controlling the outlet of the feed pipe. Alcohol and other volatile inflammable liquids may be used instead of gasoline. 

CARBURIZATION:  The act, process, or result of carburizing. 

CARBURIZE:  To combine wtih carbon or a carbon compound; -- said esp. of a process for conferring a higher degree of illuminating power on combustible gases by mingling them with a vapor of valatile hydrocarbons. 

CARCAJOU:  The wolverence; -- also applied, but erroneously, to the Canada lynx, and sometimes to the American badger. See Wolverene. 

CARCANET:  A jeweled chain, necklace, or collar. [Also written carkenet and carcant.] Shak. 

CARCASE:  See Carcass. 

CARCASS:  A hollow case or shell, filled with combustibles, to be thrown from a mortar or howitzer, to set fire to buldings, ships, etc. A discharge of carcasses and bombshells. W. Iving. 

CARCAVELHOS:  A sweet wine. See Calcavella. 

CARCELAGE:  Prison fees. [Obs.]  CARCEL LAMP Car"cel lamp`. Etym: [Named after Carcel, the inventor.]  A French mechanical lamp, for lighthouses, in which a superbundance of oil is pumped to the wick tube by clockwork. 

CARCERAL:  Belonging a prison. [R.] Foxe. 

CARCINOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to carcinology. 

CARCINOLOGY:  The depertment of zoölogy which treats of the Crustacea (lobsters, crabs, etc.); -- called also malacostracology and crustaceology. 

CARCINOMA:  A cancer. By some medical writers, the term is applied to an indolent tumor. See Cancer. Dunglison. 

CARCINOMATOUS:  Of or pertaining to carcinoma. 

CARCINOSYS:  The affection of the system with cancer. 

CARD:  A perforated pasteboard or sheet-metal plate for warp threads, making part of the Jacquard apparatus of a loom. See Jacquard.  5. An indicator card. See under Indicator. Business card, a card on which is printed an advertisement or business address.  -- Card basket (a) A basket to hold visiting cards left by callers. (b) A basket made of cardboard.  -- Card catalogue. See Catalogue.  -- Card rack, a rack or frame for holding and displaying business or visiting card.  -- Card table, a table for use inplaying cards, esp. one having a leaf which folds over.  -- On the cards, likely to happen; foretold and expected but not yet brought to pass; -- a phrase of fortune tellers that has come into common use; also, according to the programme.  -- Playing card, cards used in playing games; specifically, the cards cards used playing which and other games of chance, and having each pack divided onto four kinds or suits called hearts, diamonds, clubs, and spades. The full or whist pack contains fifty-two cards.  -- To have the cards in one's own hands, to have the winning cards; to have the means of success in an undertaking.  -- To play one's cards well, to make no errors; to act shrewdly.  -- To play snow one's cards, to expose one's plants to rivals or foes.  -- To speak by the card, to speak from information and definitely, not by guess as in telling a ship's bearing by the compass card.  -- Visiting card, a small card bearing the name, and sometimes the address, of the person presenting it. 

CARD:  To play at cards; to game. Johnson. 

CARDAMINE:  A genus of cruciferous plants, containing the lady's-smock, cuckooflower, bitter cress, meadow cress, etc. 

CARDAMOM:  A plant which prduces cardamoms, esp. Elettaria Cardamomum and several of Amommum. 

CARDBOARD:  A stiff compact pasteboard of various qualities, for making cards, etc., often having a polished surface. 

CARDCASE:  A case for visiting cards. 

CARDECU:  A quarter of a crown. [Obs.] The bunch of them were not worth a cardecu. Sir W. Scott. 

CARDER:  One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc. Shak. 

CARDIAC:  Pertaining to, resembling, or hear the heart; as, the cardiac arteries; the cardiac, or left, end of the stomach.  2. (Med.)  Exciting action in the heart, through the medium of the stomach; cordial; stimulant. Cardiac passion (Med.) cardialgia; heartburn. [Archaic] -- Cardiac wheel. (Mach.) See Heart wheel. 

CARDIAC:  A medicine which excites action in the stomach; a cardial. 

CARDIACAL:  Cardiac. 

CARDIACLE:  A pain about the heart. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CARDIAGRAPH:  See Cardiograph.  CARDIALGLA; CARDIALGY Car`di*al"gl*a, Car"di*al`gy, n. Etym: [NL. cardialgia, fr. Gr. cardialgie.] (Med.)  A burning or gnawing pain, or feeling of distress, referred to the region of the heart, accompanied with cardisc palpitation; heartburn. It is usually a symptom of indigestion.  CARDIGAN JACKET Car"di*gan jack`et. Etym: [From the Earl of Cardigan, who was famous in the Crimean campaign of 1854-55.]  A warm jacket of knit worsted with or without sleeves. 

CARDINAL:  Of fundamental importance; preëminet; superior; chief; principal. The cardinal intersections of the zodiac. Sir T. Browne. Impudence is now a cardinal virtue. Drayton. But cardinal sins, and hollow hearts, I fear ye. Shak. Cardinal numbers, the numbers one, two, three, etc., in distinction from first, second, third, etc., which are called ordinal numbers.  -- Cardinal points (a) (Geol.) The four principal points of the compass, or intersections of the horizon with the meridian and the prime vertical circle, north, south east, and west. (b) (Astrol.) The rising and setting of the sun, the zenith and nadir.  -- Cardinal signs (Astron.) Aries, Lidra, Cancer, and Capricorn.  -- Cardinal teeth (Zoöl.), the central teeth of bivalve shell. See Bivalve.  -- Cardinal veins (Anat.), the veins in vertebrate embryos, which run each side of the vertebral column and returm the blood to the heart. They remain through life in some fishes.  -- Cardinal virtues, preëminent virtues; among the ancients, prudence, justice, temperance, and fortitude.  -- Cardinal winds, winds which blow from the cardinal points due north, south, east, or west. 

CARDINAL:  1. (R.C.Ch.) One of the ecclesiastical prince who constitute the pope's council, or the sacred college. The clerics of the supreme Chair are called Cardinals, as undoubtedly adhering more nearly to the hinge by which all things are moved. Pope Leo IX.  Note: The cardinals are appointed by the pope. Since the time of Sixtus V., their number can never exceed seventy (six of episcopal rank, fifty priests, fourteen deacons), and the number of cardinal priests and deacons is seldom full. When the papel chair is vacant a pope is elected by the college of cardinals from among themselves. The cardinals take procedence of all dignitaries except the pope. The principal parts of a cardinal's costume are a red cassock, a rochet, a short purple mantle, and a red hat with a small crown and broad, brim, with cards and tessels of a special pattern hanging from it.  2. A woman's short cloak with a hood. Where's your cardinal! Make haste. Lloyd.  3. Mulled red wine. Hotten.  Cardinal bird, or Cardinal grosbeak (Zoöl.), an American song bird (Cardinalis cardinalis, or C. Virginianus), of the family Fringillidæ, or finches having a bright red plumage, and a high, pointed crest on its head. The males have loud and musical notes resembling those of a fife. Other related species are also called cardinal birds.  -- Cardinal flower (Bot.), an herbaceous plant (Lobelia cardinalis) bearing brilliant red flowers of much beauty.  -- Cardinal red, color like that of a cardinal's cassock, hat, etc.; a bright red, darket than scarlet, and between scarlet and crimson. 

CARDINALATE:  The office, rank, or dignity of a cardinal. 

CARDINALIZE:  To exalt to the office of a cardinal. Sheldon. 

CARDINALSHIP:  The condition, dignity, of office of a cardinal 

CARDIOGRAM:  The curve or tracing made by a cardiograph. 

CARDIOGRAPH:  An instrument which, when placed in contact with the chest, will register graphically the comparative duration and intensity of the heart's movements. 

CARDIOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to, or produced by, a cardiograph. 

CARDIOID:  An algebraic curve, so called from its resemblance to a heart. 

CARDIOINHIBITORY:  Checking or arresting the heart's action. 

CARDIOLGY:  The science which treats of the heart and its functions. 

CARDIOMETRY:  Measurement of the heart, as by percussion or auscultation. 

CARDIOSCLEROSIS:  Induration of the heart, caused by development of fibrous tissue in the cardiac muscle. 

CARDIOSPHYGMOGRAPH:  A combination of cardiograph and shygmograph. 

CARDITIS:  Inflammation of the fleshy or muscular substance of the heart. See Endocardris and Pericarditis. Dunglison. 

CARDOL:  A yellow oil liquid, extracted from the shell of the cashew nut. 

CARDOON:  A large herbaceos plant (Cynara Cardunculus) related to the artichoke; -- used in cookery and as a sald. 

CARE:  To be anxious or solictous; to be concerned; to have regard or interest; -- sometimes followed by an objective of measure. I would not care a pin, if the other three were in. Shak. Master, carest thou not that we perish Mark. iv. 38. To care for. (a) To have under watchful attention; to take care of. (b) To have regard or affection for; to like or love. He cared not for the affection of the house. Tennyson. 

CAREEN:  To cause (a vessel) to lean over so that she floats on one side, leaving the other side out of water and accessible for repairs below the water line; to case to be off the keel. 

CAREEN:  To incline to one side, or lie over, as a ship when sailing on a wind; to be off the keel. 

CAREER:  The fight of a hawk. 

CAREER:  To move or run rapidly. areering gayly over the curling waves. W. Irving. 

CAREFULLY:  In a careful manner. 

CAREFULNESS:  Quality or state of being careful. 

CARELESSLY:  In a careless manner. 

CARELESSNESS:  The quality or state of being careless; heedlessness; negligenece; inattention. 

CARENE:  A fast of forty days on bread and water. [Obs.] 

CARESS:  An act of endearment; any act or expression of affection; an embracing, or touching, with tenderness. Wooed her with his soft caresses. Langfellow. He exerted himself to win by indulgence and caresses the hearts of all who were under his command. Macaulay. 

CARESS:  To treat with tokens of fondness, affection, or kindness; to touch or speak to in a loving or endearing manner; to fondle. The lady caresses the rough bloodhoun. Sir W. Scott.  Syn.  -- To foundle; embrace; pet; coddle; court; flatter.  -- Caress, Fondle. "We caress by words or actions; we fondle by actions only." Crabb. 

CARESSINGLY:  In caressing manner. 

CARET:  A mark [^] used by writers and proof readers to indicate that something is interlined above, or inserted in the margin, which belongs in the place marked by the caret. 

CARET:  The hawkbill turtle. See Hawkbill. 

CARETUNED:  Weary; mournful. Shak.  CARE-TUNED Care"-tuned, a.  Weary; mournful.  Shak. 

CAREWORN:  Worn or burdened with care; as, careworn look or face. 

CAREX:  A numerous and widely distributed genus of perennial herbaceous plants of the order Cypreaceæ; the sedges. 

CARF:  pret. of Carve. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CARGASON:  A cargo. [Obs.] 

CARGO:  The lading or freight of a ship or other vessel; the goods, merchandise, or whatever is conveyed in a vessel or boat; load; freight. Cargoes of food or clothing. E. Everett.  Note: The term cargo, in law, is usually applied to goods only, and not to live animals or persons. Burill. 

CARGOOSE:  A species of grebe (Podiceps crisratus); the crested grebe. 

CARIAMA:  A large, long-legged South American bird (Dicholophus cristatus) which preys upon snakes, etc. See Seriema. 

CARIB:  A native of the Caribbee islands or the coaste of the Caribbean sea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of South America, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West India islands.  CARIBBEAN; CARIBBEE Car`ib*be"an, Car`ib*bee, a.  Of or pertaining to the Caribs, to their islands (the eastern and southern West Indies), or to the sea (called the Caribbean sa) lying between those islands and Central America. 

CARIBBEE:  A Carib. 

CARIBE:  A south American fresh water fish of the genus Serrasalmo of many species, remakable for its voracity. When numerous they attack man or beast, often with fatal results. 

CARIBOU:  The American reindeer, especially the common or woodland species (Rangifer Caribou). Barren Ground caribou. See under Barren.  -- Woodland caribou, the common reindeer (Rangifer Caribou) of the northern forests of America. 

CARICATURE:  To make or draw a caricature of; to represent with ridiculous exaggeration; to burlesque. He could draw an ill face, or caricature a good one, with a masterly hand. Lord Lyttelton. 

CARICATURIST:  One who caricatures. 

CARICOUS:  Of the shape of a fig; as, a caricous tumor. Graig. 

CARIES:  Ulceration of bone; a process in which bone disintegrates and is carried away piecemeal, as distinguished from necrosis, in which it dies in masses. 

CARILLON:  A chime of bells diatonically tuned, played by clockwork or by finger keys.  2. A tune adapted to be played by musical bells. 

CARINA:  A keel. (a) That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals, commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification. (b) A longitudinal ridge or projection like the keel of a boat.  2. (Zoöl.)  The keel of the breastbone of birds. 

CARINARIA:  A genus of oceanic heteropod Mollusca, having a thin, glassy, bonnet-shaped shell, which covers only the nucleus and gills. 

CARINATAE:  A grand division of birds, including all existing flying birds; -- So called from the carina or keel on the breastbone.  CARINATE; CARINATED Car"i*nate, Car"i*na`ted a. Etym: [L. carinatus, fr. carina keel.]  Shaped like the keel or prow of a ship; having a carina or keel; as, a carinate calyx or leaf; a carinate sternum (of a bird). 

CARIOPSIS:  See Caryopsis. 

CARIOSITY:  Caries. 

CARIOUS:  Affected with caries; decaying; as, a carious tooth. 

CARK:  A noxious or corroding care; solicitude; worry. [Archaic.] His heavy head, devoid of careful cark. Spenser. Fling cark and care aside. Motherwell. Ereedom from the cares of money and the cark of fashion. R. D. Blackmore. 

CARK:  To be careful, anxious, solicitous, or troubles in mind; to worry or grieve. [R.] Beau. & fl. 

CARK:  To vex; to worry; to make by anxious care or worry. [R.] Nor can a man, independently . . . of God's blessing, care and cark himself one penny richer. South. 

CARKANET:  A carcanet. Southey. 

CARKING:  Distressing; worrying; perplexing; corroding; as, carking cares. 

CARL:  A kind of food. See citation, below. Caring or carl are gray steeped in water and fried the next day in butter or fat. They are eaten on the second Sunday before Easter, formerly called Carl Sunday. Robinson's Whitby Glossary (1875). 

CARLIN:  An old woman. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]  CARLINE; CAROLINE Car"line, Car"o*line, n. Etym: [F. carin; cf. It. carlino; -- so called from Carlo (Charles) VI. of Naples.]  A silver coin once current in some parts of Italy, worth about seven cents. Simmonds.  CARLINE; CARLING Car"line, Car"ling n. Etym: [Cf. F. carlingur, Sp. Pg., & It. carlinga.] (Naut.)  A short timber running lengthwise of a ship, from one transverse desk beam to another; also, one of the cross timbers that strengthen a hath; -- usually in pl.  CARLINE THISTLE Car"line this`tle. Etym: [F. carline, It., Sp., & Pg., carline, Said to be so called from the Emperor Charlemagne, whose army is reputed to have used it as a remedy for pestilence.] (Bot.)  A prickly plant of the genus Carlina (C. vulgaris), found in Europe and Asia. 

CARLINGS:  Same as Carl, 3. Carling Sunday, a Sunday in Lent when carls are eaten. In some parts of England, Passion Sunday. See Carl, 4. 

CARLIST:  A parisan of Charles X. Of France, or of Dod Carlos of Spain. 

CARLOCK:  A sort of Russian isinglass, made from the air bladder of the sturgeon, and used in clarifying wine. 

CARLOT:  A churl; a boor; a peasant or countryman. [Obs.] Shak. 

CARLOVINGIAN:  Pertaining to, founded by, of descended from, Charlemagne; as, the Carlovingian race of kings. 

CARMAN:  A man whose employment is to drive, or to convey goods in, a car or car.  CARMELITE; CARMELIN Car"mel*ite, Car"mel*in a.  Of or pertaining to the order of Carmelites. 

CARMELITE:  A friar of a mendicant order (the Order of Our Lady of Mount Carmel) established on Mount Carmel, in Syria, in the twelfth century; a White Friar.  2. A nun of the Order of Our lady of Mount Carmel.  CAR MILE Car mile. (Railroads)  A mile traveled by a single car, taken as a unit of computation, as in computing the average travel of each car of a system during a given period.  CAR MILEAGE Car mileage. (Railroads)  (a) Car miles collectively.  (b) The amount paid by one road the use of cars of another road. 

CARMINATED:  Of, relating to, or mixed with, carmine; as, carminated lake. Tomlinson. 

CARMINATIVE:  Expelling wind from the body; warning; antispasmodic. "Carmenative hot seeds." Dunglison. 

CARMINATIVE:  A substance, esp. an aromatic, which tends to expel wind from the alimentary canal, or to relieve colic, griping, or flatulence. 

CARMINE:  The essential coloring principle of cochineal, extracted as a purple-red amorphous mass. It is a glucoside and possesses acid properties; -- hence called also carminic acid. Carmine red (Chem.), a coloring matter obtained from carmine as a purple-red substance, and probably allied to the phthaleïns. 

CARMINIC:  Of or pertaining to, or derived from, carmine. Carminic acid. Same as Carmine, 3. 

CARMOT:  The matter of which the philosopher's stone was believed to be composed. 

CARNALISM:  The state of being carnal; carnality; sensualism. [R.] 

CARNALIST:  A sensualist. Burton. 

CARNALITY:  The state of being carnal; fleshly lust, or the indulgence of lust; grossness of mind. Because of the carnality of their hearts. Tillotson. 

CARNALIZE:  To make carnal; to debase to carnality. A sensual and carnalized spirit. John Scott. 

CARNALLITE:  A hydrous chloride of potassium and magnesium, sometimes found associated with deposits of rock salt. 

CARNALLY:  According to the flesh, to the world, or to human nature; in a manner to gratify animal appetites and lusts; sensually. For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Rom. viii. 6.  CARNAL-MINDED Car"nal-mind`ed, a.  Worldly-minded.  CARNAL-MINDEDNESS Car"nal-mind"ed*ness, n.  Grossness of mind. 

CARNARY:  A vault or crypt in connection with a church, used as a repository for human bones disintered from their original burial places; a charnel house. 

CARNASSIAL:  Adapted to eating flesh.  -- n.  A carnassial tooth; especially, the last premolar in many carnivores. 

CARNATE:  Invested with, or embodied in, flesh. 

CARNATION:  Those parts of a picture in which the human body or any part of it is represented in full color; the flesh tints. The flesh tints in painting are termed carnations. Fairholt.  3. (Bot.)  A species of Dianthus (D. Caryophyllus) or pink, having very beautiful flowers of various colors, esp. white and usually a rich, spicy scent. 

CARNATIONED:  Having a flesh color. 

CARNAUBA:  The Brazilian wax palm. See Wax palm. 

CARNELIAN:  A variety of chalcedony, of a clear, deep red, flesh red, or reddish white color. It is moderately hard, capable of a good polish, and often used for seals. 

CARNEOUS:  Consisting of, or like, flesh; carnous; fleshy. "Carneous fibers." Ray. 

CARNEY:  A disease of horses, on which the mouth is so furred that the afflicted animal can not eat. 

CARNIC:  Of or pertaining to flesh; specif. (Physiol. Chem.),  pertaining to or designating a hydroscopic monobasic acid, C10H15O5N3, obtained as a cleavage product from an acid of muscle tissue. 

CARNIFEX:  The public executioner at Rome, who executed persons of the lowest rank; hence, an executioner or hangman. 

CARNIFICATION:  The act or process of turning to flesh, or to a substance resembling flesh. 

CARNIFY:  To form flesh; to become like flesh. Sir M. Hale. 

CARNIN:  A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, found in extract of meat, and related to xanthin. 

CARNIVORA:  An order of Mammallia including the lion, tiger, wolf bear, seal, etc. They are adapted by their structure to feed upon flesh, though some of them, as the bears, also eat vegetable food. The teeth are large and sharp, suitable for cutting flesh, and the jaws powerful. 

CARNIVORACITY:  Greediness of appetite for flesh. [Sportive.] Pope. 

CARNIVORE:  One of the Carnivora. 

CARNIVOROUS:  Eating or feeding on flesh. The term is applied: (a) to animals which naturally seek flesh for food, as the tiger, dog, etc.; (b) to plants which are supposed to absorb animal food; (c) to substances which destroy animal tissue, as caustics.  CARNOSE; CARNOUS Car*nose, Car"*nous, a. Etym: [L. carnosus, fr. caro, carnis, flesh: cf. OF. carneux, F. charneux.]  1. Of a pertaining to flesh; fleshy. A distinct carnose muscle. Ray.  2. (Bot.)  Of a fleshy consistence; -- applied to succulent leaves, stems, etc. 

CARNOSITY:  A fleshy excrescence; esp. a small excrescence or fungous growth. Wiseman.  2. Fleshy substance or quality; fleshy covering. [Consciences] overgrown with so hard a carnosity. Spelman. The olives, indeed be very small there, and bigger than capers; yet commended they are for their carnosity. Holland.  CARNOT'S CYCLE Car`not's" cy"cle. [After N. L. S. Carnot, French physicist.] (Thermodynamics)  An ideal heat-engine cycle in which the working fluid goes through the following four successive operations: (1) Isothermal expansion to a desired point; (2) adiabatic expansion to a desired point; (3) isothermal compression to such a point that (4) adiabatic compression brings it back to its initial state. 

CAROB:  An evergreen leguminous tree (Ceratania Siliqua) found in the countries bordering the Mediterranean; the St. John's bread; -- called also carob tree.  2. One of the long, sweet, succulent, pods of the carob tree, which are used as food for animals and sometimes eaten by man; -- called also St. John's bread, carob bean, and algaroba bean. 

CAROCHE:  A kind of pleasure carriage; a coach. [Obs.] To mount two-wheeled caroches. Butler. 

CAROCHED:  Placed in a caroche. [Obs.] Beggary rides caroched. Massenger. 

CAROIGNE:  Dead body; carrion. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CAROL:  To sing; esp. to sing joyfully; to warble. And carol of love's high praise. Spenser. The gray linnets carol from the hill. Beattie.  CAROL; CARROL Car"ol, Car"rol, n. Etym: [OF. carole a sort of circular space, or carol.] (Arch.)  A small closet or inclosure built against a window on the inner side, to sit in for study. The word was used as late as the 16th century. A bay window may thus be called a carol. Parker. 

CAROLIN:  A former gold coin of Germany worth nearly five dollars; also, a gold coin of Sweden worth nearly five dollars.  CAROLINA PINK Car`o*li"na pink`. (Bot.)  See Pinkboot. 

CAROLINE:  A coin. See Carline. 

CAROLING:  A song of joy or devotion; a singing, as of carols. Coleridge. Such heavenly notes and carolings. Spenser. 

CAROLINIAN:  A native or inhabitant of north or South Carolina. 

CAROLITIC:  Adorned with sculptured leaves and branches. 

CAROLUS:  An English gold coin of the value of twenty or twenty-three shillings. It was first struck in the reign of Charles I. Told down the crowns and Caroluses. Macawlay. 

CAROM:  A shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contact with two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more balls with the player's ball. In England it is called cannon. 

CAROM:  To make a carom. 

CAROMEL:  See Caramel. 

CAROTEEL:  A tierce or cask for dried fruits, etc., usually about 700 lbs. Simmonds. 

CAROTIC:  Carotid; as, the carotic arteries. 

CAROTID:  One of the two main arteries of the neck, by which blood is conveyed from the aorta to the head.  Note: [See Illust. of Aorta.]  CAROTID; CAROTIDAL Ca*rot"id, Ca*rot"id*al, a. (Anat.)  Pertaining to, or near, the carotids or one of them; as, the carotid gland. 

CAROTIN:  A red crystallizable tasteless substance, extracted from the carrot. 

CAROTTE:  A cylindrical roll of tobacco; as, a carotte of perique. 

CAROUSAL:  A jovial feast or festival; a drunken revel; a carouse. The swains were preparing for a carousal. Sterne.  Syn.  -- Banquet; revel; orgie; carouse. See Feast. 

CAROUSE:  To drink deeply or freely in compliment; to take in a carousal; to engage in drunken revels. He had been aboard, carousing to his mates. Shak. 

CAROUSE:  To drink up; to drain; to drink freely or jovially. [Archaic] Guests carouse the sparkling tears of the rich grape. Denham. Egypt's wanton queen, Carousing gems, herself dissolved in love. Young. 

CAROUSER:  One who carouses; a reveler. 

CAROUSING:  That carouses; relating to a carouse. 

CAROUSINGLY:  In the manner of a carouser. 

CARP:  A fresh-water herbivorous fish (Cyprinus carpio.). Several other species of Cyprinus, Catla, and Carassius are called carp. See Cruclan carp.  Note: The carp was originally from Asia, whence it was early introduced into Europe, where it is extensively reared in artificial ponds. Within a few years it has been introduced into America, and widely distributed by the government. Domestication has produced several varieties, as the leather carp, which is nearly or quite destitute of scales, and the mirror carp, which has only a few large scales. Intermediate varieties occur. Carp louse (Zoöl.), a small crustacean, of the genus Argulus, parasitic on carp and allied fishes. See Branchiura.  -- Carp mullet (Zoöl.), a fish (Moxostoma carpio) of the Ohio River and Great Lakes, allied to the suckers.  -- Carp sucker (Zoöl.), a name given to several species of fresh- water fishes of the genus Carpiodes in the United States; -- called also quillback. 

CARPAL:  Of or pertaining to the carpus, or wrist.  -- n.  One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; a carpale. Carpal angle (Zoöl.), the angle at the last joint of the folded wing of a bird. 

CARPALE:  One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; esp. one of the series articulating with the metacarpals. 

CARPATHIAN:  Of or pertaining to a range of mountains in Austro-Hungary, called the Carpathians, which partially inclose Hungary on the north, east, and south.  CARPEL; CARPELLUM Car"pel, Car*pel"lum, n. Etym: [NL. carpellum, fr. Gr. (Bot.)  A simple pistil or single-celled ovary or seed vessel, or one of the parts of a compound pistil, ovary, or seed vessel. See Illust of Carpaphore. 

CARPELLARY:  Belonging to, forming, or containing carpels. 

CARPENTER:  An artificer who works in timber; a framer and builder of houses, ships, etc.  Syn.  -- Carpenter, Joiner. The carpenter frames and puts together roofs, partitions, floors, and other structural parts of a building. The joiner Supplies stairs, doors shutters, mantelpieces, cupboards, and other parts necessary to finishing the building. In America the two trades are commonly united. Carpenter ant (Zoöl.), any species of ant which gnaws galleries in the wood of trees and constructs its nests therein. They usually select dead or somewhat decayed wood. The common large American species is Formica Pennsylvanica.  -- Carpenter bee (Zoöl.), a large hymenopterous insect of the genus Xylocopa; -- so called because it constructs its nest by gnawing long galleries in sound timber. The common American species is Xylocopa Virginica. 

CARPENTERING:  The occupation or work of a carpenter; the act of workingin timber; carpentry. 

CARPER:  One who carps; a caviler. Shak. 

CARPET:  To cover with, or as with, a carpet; to spread with carpets; to furnish with a carpet or carpets. Carpeted temples in fashionable squares. E. Everett. 

CARPETBAG:  A portable bag for travelers; -- so called because originally made of carpet. 

CARPETBAGGER:  An adventurer; -- a term of contempt for a Northern man seeking private gain or political advancement in the southern part of the United States after the Civil War (1865). [U. S.] 

CARPETING:  1. The act of covering with carpets.  2. Cloth or materials for carpets; carpets, in general. The floor was covered with rich carpeting. Prescott. 

CARPETLESS:  Without a carpet. 

CARPETWAY:  A border of greensward left round the margin of a plowed field. Ray. 

CARPHOLOGY:  See Flaccillation. 

CARPING:  Fault-finding; censorious caviling. See Captious.  -- Carp"ing*ly, adv. 

CARPINTERO:  A california woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus), noted for its habit of inserting acorns in holes which it drills in trees. The acorns become infested by insect larvæ, which, when grown, are extracted for food by the bird. 

CARPOGENIC:  Productive of fruit, or causing fruit to be developed. 

CARPOLITE:  A general term for a fossil fruit, nut, or seed. 

CARPOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to carpology. 

CARPOLOGIST:  One who describes fruits; one versed in carpology. 

CARPOLOGY:  That branch of botany which relates to the structure of seeds and fruit. 

CARPOPHAGOUS:  Living on fruits; fruit-consuming. 

CARPOPHORE:  A slender prolongation of the receptacle as an axis between the carpels, as in Geranium and many umbelliferous plants. 

CARPOPHYLL:  A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of a fruit; a carpel.  Note: [See Illust. of Gymnospermous.] 

CARPOPHYTE:  A flowerless plant which forms a true fruit as the result of fertilization, as the red seaweeds, the Ascomycetes, etc.  Note: The division of alge and fungi into four classes called Carpophytes, Oöphytes, Protophytes, and Zygophytes (or Carposporeæ, Oösporeæ, Protophyta, and Zygosporeæ) was proposed by Sachs about 1875. 

CARPOSPORE:  A kind of spore formed in the conceptacles of red algæ.  -- Car`po*spor"ic (, a. 

CARPUS:  The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, or antibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eight short bones disposed in two rows. 

CARRACK:  See Carack.  CARRAGEEN; CARRIGEEN Car"ra*geen`, Car"ri*geen`, n.  A small, purplish, branching, cartilaginous seaweed (Chondrus crispus), which, when bleached, is the Irish moss of commerce. [Also written carragheen, carageen.] 

CARRANCHA:  The Brazilian kite (Polyborus Brasiliensis); -- so called in imitation of its notes. 

CARRAWAY:  See Caraway. 

CARREL:  See Quarrel, an arrow. 

CARREL:  Same as 4th Carol. 

CARRIABLE:  Capable of being carried. 

CARRIAGEABLE:  Passable by carriages; that can be conveyed in carriages. [R.] Ruskin. 

CARRIBOO:  See Caribou. 

CARRICK:  A carack. See Carack. Carrick bend (Naut.), a kind of knot, used for bending together hawsers or other ropes.  -- Carrick bitts (Naut.), the bitts which support the windlass. Totten. 

CARRIER:  That which drives or carries; as: (a) A piece which communicates to an object in a lathe the motion of the face plate; a lathe dog. (b) A spool holder or bobbin holder in a braiding machine. (c) A movable piece in magazine guns which transfers the cartridge to a position from which it can be thrust into the barrel. Carrier pigeon (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic pigeon used to convey letters from a distant point to to its home.  -- Carrier shell (Zoöl.), a univalve shell of the genus Phorus; -- so called because it fastens bits of stones and broken shells to its own shell, to such an extent as almost to conceal it.  -- Common carrier (Law.) See under Common, a. 

CARRION:  Of or pertaining to dead and putrefying carcasses; feeding on carrion. A prey for carrion kites. Shak. Carrion beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle that feeds habitually on dead animals; -- also called sexton beetle and burying beetle. There are many kinds, belonging mostly to the family Silphidæ.  -- Carrion buzzard (Zoöl.), a South American bird of several species and genera (as Ibycter, Milvago, and Polyborus), which act as scavengers. See Caracara.  -- Carrion crow, the common European crow (Corvus corone) which feeds on carrion, insects, fruits, and seeds. 

CARROL:  See 4th Carol. 

CARROM:  See Carom. 

CARROMATA:  In the Philippines, a light, two-wheeled, boxlike vehicle usually drawn by a single native pony and used to convey passengers within city limits or for traveling. It is the common public carriage. 

CARRONADE:  A kind of short cannon, formerly in use, designed to throw a large projectile with small velocity, used for the purpose of breaking or smashing in, rather than piercing, the object aimed at, as the side of a ship. It has no trunnions, but is supported on its carriage by a bolt passing through a loop on its under side.  CARRON OIL Car"ron oil.  A lotion of linseed oil and lime water, used as an application to burns and scalds; -- first used at the Carron iron works in Scotland. 

CARROT:  An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota), of many varieties.  2. The esculent root of cultivated varieties of the plant, usually spindle-shaped, and of a reddish yellow color. 

CARROTY:  Like a carrot in color or in taste; -- an epithet given to reddish yellow hair, etc. 

CARROW:  A strolling gamester. [Ireland] Spenser. 

CARRY:  To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as a hare. Johnson. To carry on, to behave in a wild, rude, or romping manner. [Colloq.] 

CARRY:  A tract of land, over which boats or goods are carried between two bodies of navigable water; a carrying place; a portage. Etym: [U.S.] 

CARRYALL:  A light covered carriage, having four wheels and seats for four or more persons, usually drawn by one horse. 

CARRYING:  The act or business of transporting from one place to another. Carrying place, a carry; a portage.  -- Carrying trade, the business of transporting goods, etc., from one place or country to another by water or land; freighting. We are rivals with them in . . . the carrying trade. Jay. 

CARRYK:  A carack. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CARRYTALE:  A talebearer. [R.] Shak. 

CARSE:  Low, fertile land; a river valley. [Scot.] Jomieson. 

CART:  To carry burdens in a cart; to follow the business of a carter. 

CARTBOTE:  Wood to which a tenant is entitled for making and repairing carts and other instruments of husbandry. 

CARTE:  A blank paper, with a person's signature, etc., at the bottom, given to another person, with permission to superscribe what conditions he pleases. Hence: Unconditional terms; unlimited authority.  CARTE DE VISITE Carte" de vi*site`, pl. Cartes de visite (. Etym: [F.]  1. A visiting card.  2. A photographic picture of the size formerly in use for a visiting card. 

CARTEL:  An agreement between belligerents for the exchange of prisoners. Wilhelm.  2. A letter of defiance or challenge; a challenge to single combat. [Obs.] He is cowed at the very idea of a cartel., Sir W. Scott. Cartel, or Cartel ship, a ship employed in the exchange of prisoners, or in carrying propositions to an enemy; a ship beating a flag of truce and privileged from capture. 

CARTEL:  To defy or challenge. [Obs.] You shall cartel him. B. Jonson.  CARTE QUARTE Carte. Quarte, n. Etym: [F. quarte, prop., a fourth. Cf. Quart.] (Fencing)  A position in thrusting or parrying, with the inside of the hand turned upward and the point of the weapon toward the adversary's right breast. 

CARTESIAN:  Of or pertaining to the French philosopher René Descartes, or his philosophy. The Cartesion argument for reality of matter. Sir W. Hamilton. Cartesian coördinates (Geom), distance of a point from lines or planes; -- used in a system of representing geometric quantities, invented by Descartes.  -- Cartesian devil, a small hollow glass figure, used in connection with a jar of water having an elastic top, to illustrate the effect of the compression or expansion of air in changing the specific gravity of bodies.  -- Cartesion oval (Geom.), a curve such that, for any point of the curve mr + m'r' = c, where r and r' are the distances of the point from the two foci and m, m' and c are constant; -- used by Descartes. 

CARTESIAN:  An adherent of Descartes. 

CARTESIANISM:  The philosophy of Descartes. 

CARTHAGINIAN:  Of a pertaining to ancient Carthage, a city of northern Africa.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Carthage. 

CARTHAMIN:  A red coloring matter obtained from the safflower, or Carthamus tinctorius. 

CARTHUSIAN:  A member of an exceeding austere religious order, founded at Chartreuse in France by St. Bruno, in the year 1086. 

CARTHUSIAN:  Pertaining to the Carthusian. 

CARTILAGE:  A translucent, elastic tissue; gristle.  Note: Cartilage contains no vessels, and consists of a homogeneous, intercellular matrix, in which there are numerous minute cavities, or capsules, containing protoplasmic cells, the cartilage corpuscul. See Illust under Duplication. Articular cartilage, cartilage that lines the joints.  -- Cartilage bone (Anat.), any bone formed by the ossification of cartilage.  -- Costal cartilage, cartilage joining a rib with he sternum. See Illust. of Thorax. 

CARTILAGINEOUS:  See Cartilaginous. Ray. 

CARTILAGINIFICATION:  The act or process of forming cartilage. Wright. 

CARTILAGINOUS:  Having the skeleton in the state of cartilage, the bones containing little or no calcareous matter; said of certain fishes, as the sturgeon and the sharks. 

CARTIST:  In Spain and Portugal, one who supports the constitution. 

CARTMAN:  One who drives or uses a cart; a teamster; a carter. 

CARTOGRAM:  A map showing geographically, by shades or curves, statistics of various kinds; a statistical map. 

CARTOGRAPHER:  One who make charts or maps.  CARTOGRAPHIC; CARTOGRAPHICAL Car`to*graph"ic, Car`to*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to cartography. 

CARTOGRAPHICALLY:  By cartography. 

CARTOGRAPHY:  The act business of forming chart's or maps. 

CARTOMANCY:  The act of telling fortunes with cards. 

CARTON:  Pasteboard for paper boxes; also, a pasteboard box. Carton pierre (, a species of papier-maché, imitating stone or bronze sculpture. Knight. 

CARTOONIST:  One skilled in drawing cartoons. 

CARTOUCH:  An oval figure on monuments, and in papyri, containing the name of a sovereign. 

CARTRIDGE:  A complete charge for a firearm, contained in, or held together by, a case, capsule, or shell of metal, pasteboard, or other material. Ball cartridge, a cartridge containing a projectile.  -- Blank cartrige, a cartridge without a projectile, -- Center-fire cartridge, a cartridge in which the fulminate occupies an axial position usually in the center of the base of the capsule, instead of being contained in its rim. In the Prussian needle gun the fulminate is applied to the middle of the base of the bullet. Rim-fire cartridge, a cartridge in which the fulminate is contained in a rim surrounding its base.  -- Cartridge bag, a bag of woolen cloth, to hold a charge for a cannon.  -- Cartridge belt, a belt having pocket for cartridges.  -- Cartridge box, a case, usually of leather, attached to a belt or strap, for holding cartridges.  -- Cartridge paper. (a) A thick stout paper for inclosing cartridges. (b) A rough tinted paper used for covering walls, and also for making drawings upon. 

CARTULARY:   2. An ecclesiastical officer who had charge of records or other public papers. 

CARTWAY:  A way or road for carts. 

CARTWRIGHT:  An artificer who makes carts; a cart maker. 

CARUCAGE:  A tax on every plow or plowland.  2. The act of plowing. [R.] 

CARUCATE:  A plowland; as much land as one team can plow in a year and a day; -- by some said to be about 100 acres. Burrill.  CARUNCLE; CARUNCULA Car"un*cle, Ca*run"cu*la, n. Etym: [L. caruncula a little piece of flesh, dim. of caro flesh.]  1. (Anat.)  A small fleshy prominence or excrescence; especially the small, reddish body, the caruncula lacrymalis, in the inner angle of the eye.  2. (Bot.)  An excrescence or appendage surrounding or near the hilum of a seed.  3. (Zoöl.)  A naked, flesh appendage, on the head of a bird, as the wattles of a turkey, etc.  CARUNCULAR; CARUNCULOUS Ca*run"cu*lar, Ca*run"cu*lous, a.  Of, pertaining to, or like, a caruncle; furnished with caruncles.  CARUNCULATE; CARUNCULATED Ca*run"cu*late, Ca*run"cu*la`ted, a.  Having a caruncle or caruncles; caruncular. 

CARUS:  Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy. 

CARVACROL:  A thick oily liquid, C10H13.OH, of a strong taste and disagreeable odor, obtained from oil of caraway (Carum carui). 

CARVE:  A carucate. [Obs.] Burrill. 

CARVELBUILT:  Having the planks meet flush at the seams, instead of lapping as in a clinker-built vessel. 

CARVEN:  Wrought by carving; ornamented by carvings; carved. [Poetic] A carven bowl well wrought of beechen tree. Bp. Hall. The carven cedarn doors. Tennyson. A screen of carven ivory. Mrs. Browning. 

CARVENE:  An oily substance, C10H16, extracted from oil caraway. 

CARVIST:  A hawk which is of proper age and training to be carried on the hand; a hawk in its first year. Booth. 

CARVOL:  One of a species of aromatic oils, resembling carvacrol.  CAR WHEEL Car" wheel`,  A flanged wheel of a railway car or truck.  CARYATIC; CARYATID Car`y*at"ic, Car`y*at"id, a.  Of or pertaining to a caryatid. 

CARYATID:  (Arch.) A draped female figure supporting an entablature, in the place of a column or pilaster. 

CARYATIDES:  Caryatids.  Note: Corresponding male figures were called Atlantes, Telamones, and Persians. 

CARYOPHYLLIN:  A tasteless and odorless crystalline substance, extracted from cloves, polymeric with common camphor. 

CARYOPHYLLOUS:  Caryophyllaceous. 

CARYOPSIS:  A one-celled, dry, indehiscent fruit, with a thin membranous pericarp, adhering closely to the seed, so that fruit and seed are incorporated in one body, forming a single grain, as of wheat, barley, etc. 

CASA:  A house or mansion. [Sp. Amer. & Phil. Islands]  I saw that Enriquez had made no attempt to modernize the old casa, and that even the garden was left in its lawless native luxuriance. Bret Harte. 

CASAL:  Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending. 

CASCABEL:  The projection in rear of the breech of a cannon, usually a knob or breeching loop connected with the gun by a neck. In old writers it included all in rear of the base ring.  Note: [See Illust. of Cannon.] 

CASCADE:  A fall of water over a precipice, as in a river or brook; a waterfall less than a cataract. The silver brook . . . pours the white cascade. Longjellow. Now murm'ring soft, now roaring in cascade. Cawper. 

CASCADE:  A method of attaining successively lower temperatures by utilizing the cooling effect of the expansion of one gas in condensing another less easily liquefiable, and so on.  CASCADE SYSTEM Cascade system. (Elec.)  A system or method of connecting and operating two induction motors so that the primary circuit of one is connected to the secondary circuit of the other, the primary circuit of the latter being connected to the source of supply; also, a system of electric traction in which motors so connected are employed. The cascade system is also called tandem, or concatenated, system; the connection a cascade, tandem, or concatenated, connection, or a concatenation; and the control of the motors so obtained a tandem, or concatenation, control. In the cascade system of traction the cascade connection is used for starting and for low speeds up to half speed. For full speed the short-circuited motor is cut loose from the other motor and is either left idle or (commonly) connected direct to the line. 

CASCALHO:  A deposit of pebbles, gravel, and ferruginous sand, in which the Brazilian diamond is usually found.  CASCARA BUCKTHORN Cas"ca*ra buck"thorn`. (Bot.)  The buckthorn (Rhamnus Purshiana) of the Pacific coast of the United States, which yields cascara sagrada.  CASCARA SAGRADA Cas"ca*ra sa*gra"da. Etym: [Sp.]  Holy bark; the bark of the California buckthorn (Rhamnus Purshianus), used as a mild cathartic or laxative. 

CASCARILLA:  A euphorbiaceous West Indian shrub (Croton Eleutheria); also, its aromatic bark. Cascarilla bark (or Cascarila) (Med.), the bark of Croton Eleutheria. It has an aromatic odor and a warm, spicy, bitter taste, and when burnt emits a musky odor. It is used as a gentle tonic, and sometimes, for the sake of its fragrance, mixed with smoking tobacco, when it is said to occasion vertigo and intoxication. 

CASCARILLIN:  A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil of cascarilla. 

CASCARON:  Lit., an eggshell; hence, an eggshell filled with confetti to be thrown during balls, carnivals, etc. [Western U. S.] 

CASE:  A shallow tray divided into compartments or "boxes" for holding type.  Note: Cases for type are usually arranged in sets of two, called respectively the upper and the lower case. The upper case contains capitals, small capitals, accented; the lower case contains the small letters, figures, marks of punctuation, quadrats, and spaces.  4. An inclosing frame; a casing; as, a door case; a window case.  5. (Mining)  A small fissure which admits water to the workings. Knight. 

CASE:  A patient under treatment; an instance of sickness or injury; as, ten cases of fever; also, the history of a disease or injury. A proper remedy in hypochondriacal cases. Arbuthnot.  4. (Law)  The matters of fact or conditions involved in a suit, as distinguished from the questions of law; a suit or action at law; a cause. Let us consider the reason of the case, for nothing is law that is not reason. Sir John Powell. Not one case in the reports of our courts. Steele.  5. (Gram.)  One of the forms, or the inflections or changes of form, of a noun, pronoun, or adjective, which indicate its relation to other words, and in the aggregate constitute its declension; the relation which a noun or pronoun sustains to some other word. Case is properly a falling off from the nominative or first state of word; the name for which, however, is now, by extension of its signification, applied also to the nominative. J. W. Gibbs.  Note: Cases other than the nominative are oblique cases. Case endings are terminations by which certain cases are distinguished. In old English, as in Latin, nouns had several cases distinguished by case endings, but in modern English only that of the possessive case is retained. Action on the case (Law), according to the old classification (now obsolete), was an action for redress of wrongs or injuries to person or property not specially provided against by law, in which the whole cause of complaint was set out in the writ; -- called also trespass on the case, or simply case.  -- All a case, a matter of indifference. [Obs.] "It is all a case to me." L'Estrange.  -- Case at bar. See under Bar, n.  -- Case divinity, casuistry.  -- Case lawyer, one versed in the reports of cases rather than in the science of the law.  -- Case stated or agreed on (Law), a statement in writing of facts agreed on and submitted to the court for a decision of the legal points arising on them.  -- A hard case, an abandoned or incorrigible person. [Colloq.] -- In any case, whatever may be the state of affairs; anyhow.  -- In case, or In case that, if; supposing that; in the event or contingency; if it should happen that. "In case we are surprised, keep by me." W. Irving.  -- In good case, in good condition, health, or state of body.  -- To put a case, to suppose a hypothetical or illustrative case.  Syn.  -- Situation, condition, state; circumstances; plight; predicament; occurrence; contingency; accident; event; conjuncture; cause; action; suit. 

CASE:  To propose hypothetical cases. [Obs.] "Casing upon the matter." L'Estrange. 

CASEATION:  A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass.  CASE-BAY Case"-bay`, n. (Arch.) (a) The space between two principals or girders. (b) One of the joists framed between a pair of girders in naked flooring. 

CASEHARDENING:  The act or process of converting the surface of iron into steel. Ure.  Note: Casehardening is now commonly effected by cementation with charcoal or other carbonizing material, the depth and degree of hardening (carbonization) depending on the time during which the iron is exposed to the heat. See Cementation. 

CASEIC:  OF or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid. 

CASEIN:  A proteid substance present in both the animal and the vegetable kingdom. In the animal kindom it is chiefly found in milk, and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in the vegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds of leguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin. [Written also caseine.]  CASE KNIFE Case" knife`.  1. A knife carried in a sheath or case. Addison.  2. A large table knife; -- so called from being formerly kept in a case. 

CASEMATE:  A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may be placed, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being used as a magazine, or for quartering troops.  2. (Arch.)  A hollow molding, chiefly in cornices. 

CASEMATED:  Furnished with, protected by, or built like, a casemate. Campbell. 

CASEMENT:  A window sash opening on hinges affixed to the upright side of the frame into which it is fitted. (Poetically) A window. A casement of the great chamber window. Shak. 

CASEMENTED:  Having a casement or casements. 

CASEOSE:  A soluble product (proteose) formed in the gastric and pancreatic digestion of casein and caseinogen. 

CASEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualities of cheese; cheesy. Caseous degeneration, a morbid process, in scrofulous or consumptive persons, in which the products of inflammation are converted into a cheesy substance which is neither absorbed nor organized. 

CASERN:  A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near the rampart; barracks. Bescherelle.  CASE SHOT Case" shot`. (Mil.)  A collection of small projectiles, inclosed in a case or canister.  Note: In the United States a case shot is a thin spherical or oblong cast-iron shell containing musket balls and a bursting charge, with a time fuse; -- called in Europe shrapnel. In Europe the term case shot is applied to what in the United States is called canister. Wilhelm.  CASE SYSTEM Case system. (Law)  The system of teaching law in which the instruction is primarily a historical and inductive study of leading or selected cases, with or without the use of textbooks for reference and collateral reading. 

CASEUM:  Same as Casein. 

CASEWORM:  A worm or grub that makes for itself a case. See Caddice. 

CASH:  A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paid out; a money box. [Obs.] This bank is properly a general cash, where every man lodges his money. Sir W. Temple. £20,000 are known to be in her cash. Sir R. Winwood.  2. (Com.) (a) Ready money; especially, coin or specie; but also applied to bank notes, drafts, bonds, or any paper easily convertible into money. (b) Immediate or prompt payment in current funds; as, to sell goods for cash; to make a reduction in price for cash. Cash account (Bookkeeping), an account of money received, disbursed, and on hand.  -- Cash boy, in large retail stores, a messenger who carries the money received by the salesman from customers to a cashier, and returns the proper change. [Colloq.] -- Cash credit, an account with a bank by which a person or house, having given security for repayment, draws at pleasure upon the bank to the extent of an amount agreed upon; -- called also bank credit and cash account.  -- Cash sales, sales made for ready, money, in distinction from those on which credit is given; stocks sold, to be delivered on the day of transaction.  Syn.  -- Money; coin; specie; currency; capital. 

CASH:  To pay, or to receive, cash for; to exchange for money; as, cash a note or an order. 

CASH:  To disband. [Obs.] Garges. 

CASH:  A Chinese coin.  Note: The cash (Chinese tsien) is the only current coin made by the chinese government. It is a thin circular disk of a very base alloy of copper, with a square hole in the center. 1,000 to 1,400 cash are equivalent to a dollar. 

CASHBOOK:  A book in which is kept a register of money received or paid out. 

CASHEW:  A tree (Anacardium occidentale) of the same family which the sumac. It is native in tropical America, but is now naturalized in all tropical countries. Its fruit, a kidney-shaped nut, grows at the extremity of an edible, pear-shaped hypocarp, about three inches long. Casbew nut, the large, kidney-shaped fruit of the cashew, which is edible after the caustic oil has been expelled from the shell by roasting the nut. 

CASHIER:  One who has charge of money; a cash keeper; the officer who has charge of the payments and receipts (moneys, checks, notes), of a bank or a mercantile company. 

CASHIERER:  One who rejects, discards, or dismisses; as, a cashierer of monarchs. [R.] Burke.  CASHIER'S CHECK Cash*ier's" check. (Banking)  A check drawn by a bank upon its own funds, signed by the cashier. 

CASHMERETTE:  A kind of dress goods, made with a soft and glossy surface like cashmere. 

CASHOO:  See Catechu.  CASH RAILWAY Cash railway.  A form of cash carrier in which a small carrier or car travels upon a kind of track.  CASH REGISTER Cash register.  A device for recording the amount of cash received, usually having an automatic adding machine and a money drawer and exhibiting the amount of the sale. 

CASINGS:  Dried dung of cattle used as fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Waterland. 

CASK:  To put into a cask. 

CASKET:  A gasket. See Gasket. 

CASKET:  To put into, or preserve in, a casket. [Poetic] "I have casketed my treasure." Shak. 

CASQUE:  A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without a vizor) for the head and neck; a helmet. His casque overshadowed with brilliant plumes. Prescott. 

CASS:  To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleing. 

CASSADA:  See Cassava. 

CASSAREEP:  A condiment made from the sap of the bitter cassava (Manihot utilissima) deprived of its poisonous qualities, concentrated by boiling, and flavored with aromatics. See Pepper pot. 

CASSATE:  To render void or useless; to vacate or annul. [Obs.] 

CASSATION:  The act of annulling. A general cassation of their constitutions. Motley. Court of cassation, the highest court of appeal in France, which has power to quash (Casser) or reverse the decisions of the inferior courts. 

CASSAVA:  A shrubby euphorbiaceous plant of the genus Manihot, with fleshy rootstocks yielding an edible starch; -- called also manioc.  Note: There are two species, bitter and sweet, from which the cassava of commerce is prepared in the West Indies, tropical America, and Africa. The bitter (Manihot utilissima) is the more important; this has a poisonous sap, but by grating, pressing, and baking the root the poisonous qualities are removed. The sweet (M. Aipi) is used as a table vegetable.  2. A nutritious starch obtained from the rootstocks of the cassava plant, used as food and in making tapioca.  CASSAVA WOOD Cas"sa*va wood`. (Bot.)  A West Indian tree (Turpinia occidentalis) of the family Staphyleaceæ.  CASSEL BROWN; CASSEL EARTH Cas"sel brown, Cas"sel earth .  A brown pigment of varying permanence, consisting of impure lignite. It was found originally near Cassel (now Kassel), Germany.  CASSE PAPER Cas"se Pa"per. Etym: [F. papier cassé. See Cass.]  Broken paper; the outside quires of a ream. 

CASSEROLE:  A small round dish with a handle, usually of porcelain.  2. (Cookery)  A mold (in the shape of a hollow vessel or incasement) of boiled rice, mashed potato or paste, baked, and afterwards filled with vegetables or meat.  CASSE-TETE Casse`-tête", n. [F., fr. casser to breal (see 2d Quash) + tête head.]  A small war club, esp. of savages; -- so called because of its supposed use in crushing the skull. 

CASSETTE:  Same as Seggar. 

CASSIA:  A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees) of many species, most of which have purgative qualities. The leaves of several species furnish the senna used in medicine.  2. The bark of several species of Cinnamommum grown in China, etc.; Chinese cinnamon. It is imported as cassia, but commonly sold as cinnamon, from which it differs more or less in strength and flavor, and the amount of outer bark attached.  Note: The medicinal "cassia" (Cassia pulp) is the laxative pulp of the pods of a leguminous tree (Cassia fistula or Pudding-pipe tree), native in the East Indies but naturalized in various tropical countries. Cassia bark, the bark of Cinnamomum Cassia, etc. The coarser kinds are called Cassia lignea, and are often used to adulterate true cinnamon.  -- Cassia buds, the dried flower buds of several species of cinnamon (Cinnamomum cassia, atc..).  -- Cassia oil, oil extracted from cassia bark and cassia buds; -- called also oil of cinnamon. 

CASSICAN:  An American bird of the genus Cassicus, allied to the starlings and orioles, remarkable for its skillfully constructed and suspended nest; the crested oriole. The name is also sometimes given to the piping crow, an Australian bird. 

CASSIDEOUS:  Helmet-shaped; -- applied to a corolla having a broad, helmet- shaped upper petal, as in aconite. 

CASSIMERE:  A thin, twilled, woolen cloth, used for men's garments. [Written also kerseymere.] 

CASSINETTE:  A cloth with a cotton wart, and a woof of very fine wool, or wool and silk.  CASSINIAN OVALS Cas*sin"i*an o"vals. (Math.)  See under Oval. 

CASSINO:  A game at cards, played by two or more persons, usually for twenty-one points. Great cassino, the ten of diamonds.  -- Little cassino, the two of spades. 

CASSIOBERRY:  The fruit of the Viburnum obovatum, a shrub which grows from Virginia to Florida. 

CASSIOPEIA:  A constellation of the northern hemisphere, situated between Capheus and Perseus; -- so called in honor of the wife of Cepheus, a fabuolous king of Ethiopia. Cassiopeia's Chair, a group of six stars, in Cassiopeia, somewhat resembling a chair. 

CASSITERITE:  Native tin dioxide; tin stone; a mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals of reddish brown color, and brilliant adamantine luster; also massive, sometimes in compact forms with concentric fibrous structure resembling wood (wood tin), also in rolled fragments or pebbly (Stream tin). It is the chief source of metallic tin. See Black tin, under Black. 

CASSIUS:  A brownish purple pigment, obtained by the action of some compounds of tin upon certain salts of gold. It is used in painting and staining porcelain and glass to give a beautiful purple color. Commonly called Purple of Cassius. 

CASSOCK:  A garment resembling a long frock coat worn by the clergy of certain churches when officiating, and by others as the usually outer garment. 

CASSOCKED:  Clothed with a cassock. 

CASSOLETTE:  a box, or vase with a perforated cover to emit perfumes. 

CASSONADE:  Raw sugar; sugar not refined. Mc Elrath. 

CASSOWARY:  A large bird, of the genus Casuarius, found in the east Indies. It is smaller and stouter than the ostrich. Its head is armed with a kind of helmet of horny substance, consisting of plates overlapping each other, and it has a group of long sharp spines on each wing which are used as defensive organs. It is a shy bird, and runs with great rapidity. Other species inhabit New Guinea, Australia, etc.  CASSUMUNAR; CASSUMUNIAR Cas`su*mu"nar, Cas`su*mu"ni*ar, n. Etym: [Hind.] (Med.)  A pungent, bitter, aromatic, gingerlike root, obtained from the East Indies. 

CAST:  To stereotype or electrotype.  18. To fix, distribute, or allot, as the parts of a play among actors; also to assign (an actor) for a part. Our parts in the other world will be new cast. Addison. To cast anchor (Naut.) Se under Anchor.  -- To cast a horoscope, to calculate it.  -- To cast a horse, sheep, or other animal, to throw with the feet upwards, in such a manner as to prevent its rising again.  -- To cast a shoe, to throw off or lose a shoe, said of a horse or ox.  -- To cast aside, to throw or push aside; to neglect; to reject as useless or inconvenient.  -- To cast away. (a) To throw away; to lavish; to waste. "Cast away a life" Addison. (b) To reject; to let perish. "Cast away his people." Rom. xi. 1. "Cast one away." Shak. (c) To wreck. "Cast away and sunk." Shak.  -- To cast by, to reject; to dismiss or discard; to throw away.  -- To cast down, to throw down; to destroy; to deject or depress, as the mind. "Why art thou cast down. O my soul" Ps. xiii. 5.  -- To cast forth, to throw out, or eject, as from an inclosed place; to emit; to send out.  -- To cast in one's lot with, to share the fortunes of.  -- To cast in one's teeth, to upbraid or abuse one for; to twin.  -- To cast lots. See under Lot.  -- To cast off. (a) To discard or reject; to drive away; to put off; to free one's self from. (b) (Hunting) To leave behind, as dogs; also, to set loose, or free, as dogs. Crabb. (c) (Naut.) To untie, throw off, or let go, as a rope.  -- To cast off copy, (Print.), to estimate how much printed matter a given amount of copy will make, or how large the page must be in order that the copy may make a given number of pages.  -- To cast one's self on or upon to yield or submit one's self unreservedly to. as to the mercy of another.  -- To cast out, to throy out; to eject, as from a house; to cast forth; to expel; to utter.  -- To cast the lead (Naut.), to sound by dropping the lead to the botton.  -- To cast the water (Med.), to examine the urine for signs of disease. [Obs.].  -- To cast up. (a) To throw up; to raise. (b) To compute; to reckon, as the cost. (c) To vomit. (d) To twit with; to throw in one's teeth. 

CAST:  To turn the head of a vessel around from the wind in getting under weigh. Weigh anchor, cast to starboard. Totten.  3. To consider; to turn or revolve in the mind; to plan; as, to cast about for reasons. She . . . cast in her mind what manner of salution this should be. Luke. i. 29.  4. To calculate; to compute. [R.] Who would cast and balance at a desk. Tennyson.  5. To receive form or shape in a mold. It will not run thin, so as to cast and mold. Woodward.  6. To warp; to become twisted out of shape. Stuff is said to cast or warp when . . . it alters its flatness or straightness. Moxon.  7. To vomit. These verses . . . make me ready to cast. B. Jonson. 

CAST:  3d pres. of Cast, for Casteth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CAST:  A flight or a couple or set of hawks let go at one time from the hand. Grabb. As when a cast of falcons make their flight. Spenser.  14. A stoke, touch, or trick. [Obs.] This was a cast of Wood's politics; for his information was wholly false. Swift.  15. A motion or turn, as of the eye; direction; look; glance; squint. The cast of the eye is a gesture of aversion. Bacon. And let you see with one cast of an eye. Addison. This freakish, elvish cast came into the child's eye. Hawthorne.  16. A tube or funnel for conveying metal into a mold.  17. Four; that is, as many as are thrown into a vessel at once in counting herrings, etc; a warp.  18. Contrivance; plot, design. [Obs.] Chaucer. A cast of the eye, a slight squint or strabismus.  -- Renal cast (Med.), microscopic bodies found in the urine of persons affected with disease of the kidneys; -- so called because they are formed of matter deposited in, and preserving the outline of, the renal tubes.  -- The last cast, the last throw of the dice or last effort, on which every thing is ventured; the last chance. 

CASTALIAN:  Of or pertaining to Castalia, a mythical fountain of inspiration on Mt. Parnassus sacred to the Muses. Milton. 

CASTANEA:  A genus of nut-bearing trees or shrubs including the chestnut and chinquapin. 

CASTANET:  See Castanets. 

CASTANETS:  Two small, concave shells of ivory or hard wood, shaped like spoons, fastened to the thumb, and beaten together with the middle finger; -- used by the Spaniards and Moors as an accompaniment to their dance and guitars.  Note: The singular, castanet, is used of one of the pair, or, sometimes, of the pair forming the instrument. The dancer, holding a castanet in each hand, rattles then to the motion of his feet. Moore (Encyc. of Music). 

CASTAWAY:  Of no value; rejected; useless. 

CASTELLAN:  A goveror or warden of a castle. 

CASTELLANY:  The lordship of a castle; the extent of land and jurisdiction appertaining to a castle. 

CASTELLATION:  The act of making into a castle. 

CASTIGATOR:  One who castigates or corrects. 

CASTIGATORY:  Punitive in order to amendment; corrective. 

CASTIGATORY:  An instrument formerly used to punish and correct arrant scolds; -- called also a ducking stool, or trebucket. Blacktone.  CASTILE SOAP Cas"tile soap". Etym: [From Castile, or Castilia, a province in Spain, from which it originally came.]  A kind of fine, hard, white or mottled soap, made with olive and soda; also, a soap made in imitation of the above-described soap. 

CASTILLAN:  Of or pertaining to Castile, in Spain. 

CASTING:  Highly carbonized iron, the direct product of the blast furnace; -- used for making castings, and for conversion into wrought iron and steel. It can not be welded or forged, is brittle, and sometimes very hard. Besides carbon, it contains sulphur, phosphorus, silica, etc.  CAST-IRON Cast"-i`ron, a.  Made of cast iron. Hence, Fig.: like cast iron; hardy; unyielding. 

CASTLE:  To move the castle to the square next to king, and then the king around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purpose of covering the king. 

CASTLEBUILDER:  Fig.: one who builds castles in the air or forms visionary schemes.  -- Cas"tle*build`ing, n. 

CASTLED:  Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castled height or crag.  2. Fortified; turreted; as, castled walls.  CASTLE-GUARD Cas"tle-guard`, n.  1. The guard or defense of a castle.  2. (O. Eng. Law)  A tax or imposition an a dwelling within a certain distance of a castle, for the purpose of maintaining watch and ward in it; castle-ward.  3. A feudal tenure, obliging the tenant to perform service within the realm, without limitation of time. 

CASTLERY:  The government of a castle. Blount. 

CASTLET:  A small castle. Leland. 

CASTLEWARD:  Same as Castleguard. 

CASTLING:  That which is cast or brought forth prematurely; an abortion. Sir T. Browne. 

CASTLING:  A compound move of the king and castle. See Castle, v. i.  CAST-OFF Cast"-off`, a.  Cast or laid aside; as, cast-off clothes. 

CASTOR:  A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver.  2. Castoreum. See Castoreum.  3. A hat, esp. one made of beaver fur; a beaver. I have always been known for the jaunty manner in which I wear my castor. Sir W. Scott.  4. A heavy quality of broadcloth for overcoats. 

CASTOR:  See Caster, a small wheel. 

CASTOR:  the northernmost of the two bright stars in the constellation Gemini, the other being Pollux.  CASTOR; CASTORITE Cas"tor, Cas"tor*ite, n. Etym: [The minerals castor and pollux were so named because found together on the island of Elba. See Castor and Pollux.] (Min.)  A variety of the mineral called petalite, from Elba.  CASTOR AND POLLUX Cas"tor and Pol"lux. Etym: [Castor and Pollux were twin sons of Jupiter and Leda.] (Naut.)  See Saint Elmo's fire, under Saint.  CASTOR BEAN Cas"tor bean". (Bot.)  The bean or seed of the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi.) 

CASTOREUM:  A peculiar bitter orange-brown substance, with strong, penetrating odor, found in two sacs between the anus and external genitals of the beaver; castor; -- used in medicine as an antispasmodic, and by perfumers. 

CASTORIN:  A white crystalline substance obtained from castoreum.  CASTOR OIL Cas"tor oil.  A mild cathartic oil, expressed or extracted from the seeds of the Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi. When fresh the oil is inodorus and insipid. Castor-oil plant. Same as Palma Christi. 

CASTRAMETATION:  The art or act of encamping; the making or laying out of a camp. 

CASTRATION:  The act of castrating. 

CASTRATO:  A male person castrated for the purpose of improving his voice for singing; an artificial, or male, soprano. Swift. 

CASTREL:  See Kestrel. 

CASTRENSIAL:  Belonging to a camp. Sir T. Browne. 

CASTRENSIAN:  Castrensial. [R.]  CAST STEEL Cast" steel".  See Cast steel, under Steel. 

CASUAL:  One who receives relief for a night in a parish to which he does not belong; a vagrant. 

CASUALISM:  The doctrine that all things exist or are controlled by chance. 

CASUALIST:  One who believes in casualism. 

CASUALLY:  Without design; accidentally; fortuitously; by chance; occasionally. 

CASUALNESS:  The quality of being casual. 

CASUALTY:  Numerical loss caused by death, wounds, discharge, or desertion. Casualty ward, A ward in a hospital devoted to the treatment of injuries received by accident.  Syn.  -- Accident; contingency; fortuity; misfortune. 

CASUARINA:  A genus of leafles trees or shrubs, with drooping branchlets of a rushlike appearance, mostly natives of Australia. Some of them are large, producing hard and heavy timber of excellent quality, called beefwood from its color. 

CASUIST:  One who is skilled in, or given to, casuistry. The judment of any casuist or learned divine concerning the state of a man's soul, is not sufficient to give him confidence. South. 

CASUIST:  To play the casuist. Milton.  CASUISTIC; CASUISTICAL Cas`u*is"tic, Cas`u*is"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to casuists or casuistry. 

CASUS:  An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination of circumstances; a case; an act of God. See the Note under Accident. Casus belli, an event or combination of events which is a cause war, or may be alleged as a justification of war.  -- Casus fortuitus, an accident against which due prudence could not have provided. See Act of God, under Act.  -- Casus omissus, a case not provided for by the statute. 

CAT:  An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx. The domestic cat is Felis domestica. The European wild cat (Felis catus) is much larger than the domestic cat. In the United States the name wild cat is commonly applied to the bay lynx (Lynx rufus) See Wild cat, and Tiger cat.  Note: The domestic cat includes many varieties named from their place of origin or from some peculiarity; as, the Angora cat; the Maltese cat; the Manx cat.  Note: The word cat is also used to designate other animals, from some fancied resemblance; as, civet cat, fisher cat, catbird, catfish shark, sea cat.  2. (Naut.) (a) A strong vessel with a narrow stern, projecting quarters, and deep waist. It is employed in the coal and timber trade. (b) A strong tackle used to draw an anchor up to the cathead of a ship. Totten.  3. A double tripod (for holding a plate, etc.), having six feet, of which three rest on the ground, in whatever position in is placed.  4. An old game; (a) The game of tipcat and the implement with which it is played. See Tipcat. (c) A game of ball, called, according to the number of batters, one old cat, two old cat, etc.  5. A cat o' nine tails. See below. Angora cat, blind cat, See under Angora, Blind.  -- Black cat the fisher. See under Black.  -- Cat and dog, like a cat and dog; quarrelsome; inharmonius. "I am sure we have lived a cat and dog life of it." Coleridge.  -- Cat block (Naut.), a heavy iron-strapped block with a large hook, part of the tackle used in drawing an anchor up to the cathead.  -- Cat hook (Naut.), a strong hook attached to a cat block.  -- Cat nap, a very short sleep. [Colloq.] -- Cat o' nine tails, an instrument of punishment consisting of nine pieces of knotted line or cord fastened to a handle; -- formerly used to flog offenders on the bare back.  -- Cat's cradle, game played, esp. by children, with a string looped on the fingers so, as to resemble small cradle. The string is transferred from the fingers of one to those of another, at each transfer with a change of form. See Cratch, Cratch cradle.  -- To let the cat out of the bag, to tell a secret, carelessly or willfully. [Colloq.] -- Bush cat, the serval. See Serval. 

CAT:  To bring to the cathead; as, to cat an anchor. See Anchor. Totten. 

CATA:  The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as a prefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposed to, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh. It sometimes drops the final vowel, as in catoptric; and is sometimes changed to cath, as in cathartic, catholic. 

CATABAPTIST:  One who opposes baptism, especially of infants. [Obs.] Featley. 

CATABASION:  A vault under altar of a Greek church. 

CATABIOTIC:  Aee under Force. 

CATACAUSTIC:  Relating to, or having the properties of, a caustic curve formed by reflection. See Caustic, a. Nichol. 

CATACAUSTIC:  A caustic curve formed by reflection of light. Nichol. 

CATACHRESIS:  A figure by which one word is wrongly put for another, or by which a word is wrested from its true signification; as, "To take arms against a sea of troubles. " Shak. "Her voice was but the shadow of a sound." Young.  CATACHRESTIC; CATACHRESTICAL Cat`a*chres"tic, Cat"a*chres"tic*al, a.  Belonging to, or in the manner of, a catachresis; wrested from its natural sense or form; forced; far-fatched.  -- Cat`a*chres"tic*al*ly, adv. [A] catachrestical and improper way of speaking. Jer. Taylor. 

CATACLASM:  A breaking asunder; disruption. 

CATACLYSM:  Any violent catastrophe, involving sudden and extensive changes of the earth's surface.  CATACLYSMAL; CATACLYSMIC Cat`a*clys"mal, Cat"a*clys"mic, a.  Of or pertaining to a cataclysm. 

CATACLYSMIST:  One who believes that the most important geological phenomena have been produced by cataclysms. 

CATACOMB:  A cave, grotto, or subterraneous place of large extent used for the burial of the dead; -- commonly in the plural.  Note: The terms is supposed to have been applied originally to the tombs under the church of St. Sebastain in Rome. The most celebrated catacombs are those near Rome, on the Appian Way, supposed to have been the place or refuge and interment of the early Chrictians; those of Egypt, extending for a wide distance in the vicinity of Cairo; and those of Paris, in abandoned stone quarries, excavated under a large portion of the city. 

CATACOUSTIC:  That part of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds or echoes See Acoustics. Hutton. 

CATACROTIC:  Designating, pertaining to, or characterized by, that form of pulse tracing, or sphygmogram, in which the descending portion of the curve is marked by secondary elevations due to two or more expansions of the artery in the same beat. -- Ca*tac"rotism (#), n. 

CATADICROTISM:  Quality or state of being catacrotic. -- Cat`a*di*crot"ic (#), a.  CATADIOPTRIC; CATADIOPTRICAL Cat`a*di*op"tric, Cat`a*di*op"tric*al, a. Etym: [Pref. cata + dioptric: cf. F. catadioptrique.] (Physics)  Pertaining to, produced by, or involving, both the reflection and refraction of light; as, a catadioptric light. Hutton. 

CATADIOPTRICS:  The science which treats of catadioptric phenomena, or of the used of catadioptric instruments. 

CATADROME:  A machine for raising or lowering heavy weights. 

CATADROMOUS:  Having the lowest inferior segment of a pinna nearer the rachis than the lowest superior one; -- said of a mode of branching in ferns, and opposed to anadromous.  2. (Zoöl.)  Living in fresh water, and going to the sea to spawn; -- opposed to anadromous, and of the eel. 

CATAFALCO:  See Catafalque. 

CATAFALQUE:  A temporary structure sometimes used in the funeral solemnities of eminent persons, for the public exhibition of the remains, or their conveyance to the place of burial. 

CATAGMATIC:  Having the quality of consolidating broken bones. 

CATAIAN:  A native of Cathay or China; a foreigner; -- formerly a term of reproach. Shak. 

CATALAN:  Of or pertaining to Catalonia.  -- n.  A native or inbabitant of Catalonia; also, the language of Catalonia. Catalan furnace, Catalan forge (Metal.), a kind of furnace for producing wrought iron directly from the ore. It was formerly much used, esp. in Catalonia, and is still used in some parts of the United States and elsewhere. 

CATALECTIC:  Wanting a syllable at the end, or terminating in an imperfect foot; as, a catalectic verse.  2. (Photog. & Chem.)  Incomplete; partial; not affecting the whole of a substance. Abney.  CATALEPSY; CATALEPSIS Cat"a*lep`sy, Cat`a*lep"sis, n. Etym: [NL. catalepsis, fr. Gr. (Med.)  A sudden suspension of sensation and volition, the body and limbs preserving the position that may be given them, while the action of the heart and lungs continues. 

CATALEPTIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, catalepsy; affected with catalepsy; as, a cataleptic fit. 

CATALLACTA:  A division of Protozoa, of which Magosphæra is the type. They exist both in a myxopod state, with branched pseudopodia, and in the form of ciliated bodies united in free, spherical colonies. 

CATALLACTICS:  The science of exchanges, a branch of political economy. 

CATALOG:  Catalogue. 

CATALOGIZE:  To insert in a catalogue; to register; to catalogue. [R.] Coles. 

CATALOGUE:  A list or enumeration of names, or articles arranged methodically, often in alphabetical order; as, a catalogue of the students of a college, or of books, or of the stars. Card catalogue, a catalogue, as of books, having each item entered on a separate card, and the cards arranged in cases by subjects, or authors, or alphabetically.  -- Catalogue raisonné Etym: [F.], a catalogue of books, etc., classed according to their subjects. Syn.  -- List; roll; index; schedule; enumeration; inventory. See List. 

CATALOGUE:  To make a list or catalogue; to insert in a catalogue. 

CATALOGUER:  A maker of catalogues; esp. one skilled in the making of catalogues. 

CATALPA:  A genus of American and East Indian trees, of which the best know species are the Catalpa bignonioides, a large, ornamental North American tree, with spotted white flowers and long cylindrical pods, and the C. speciosa, of the Mississipi valley; -- called also Indian bean. 

CATALYTIC:  Relating to, or causing, catalysis. "The catalytic power is ill understood." Ure. Catalytic force, that form of chemical energy formerly supposed to determine catalysis. 

CATALYTIC:  An agent employed in catalysis, as platinum black, aluminium chloride, etc. 

CATAMENIA:  The monthly courses of women; menstrual discharges; menses. 

CATAMENIAL:  Pertaining to the catamenia, or menstrual discharges. 

CATAMITE:  A boy kept for unnatural purposes. 

CATAMOUNT:  The cougar. Applied also, in some parts of the United States, to the lynx. 

CATANADROMOUS:  Ascending and descending fresh streams from and to the sea, as the salmon; anadromous. [R.] 

CATAPASM:  A compound medicinal powder, used by the ancients to sprinkle on ulcers, to absorb perspiration, etc. Dunglison. 

CATAPELTIC:  Of or pertaining to a catapult. 

CATAPETALOUS:  Having the petals held together by stamens, which grow to their bases, as in the mallow. 

CATAPHONIC:  Of or relating to cataphonics; catacoustic. 

CATAPHONICS:  That branch of acoustics which treats of reflested sounds; catacoustics. 

CATAPHRACT:  Defensive armor used for the whole body and often for the horse, also, esp. the linked mail or scale armor of some eastern nations.  2. A horseman covered with a cataphract. Archers and slingers, cataphracts, and spears. Milton.  3. (Zoöl.)  The armor or plate covering some fishes. 

CATAPHRACTED:  Covered with a cataphract, or armor of plates, scales, etc.; or with that which corresponds to this, as horny or bony plates, hard, callous skin, etc. 

CATAPHRACTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cataphract. 

CATAPHYSICAL:  Unnatural; contrary to nature. [R.] Some artists . . . have given to Sir Walter Scott a pile of forehead which is unpleassing and cataphysical. De Quincey. 

CATAPLASM:  A soft and moist substance applied externally to some part of the body; a poultice. Dunglison. 

CATAPLEXY:  A morbid condition caused by an overwhelming shock or extreme fear and marked by rigidity of the muscles. -- Cat`a*plec"tic (#), a. 

CATAPUCE:  Spurge. [Obs.] 

CATAPULT:  An engine somewhat resembling a massive crossbow, used by the ancient Greeks and Romans for throwing stones, arrows, spears, etc.  2. A forked stick with elasti band for throwing small stones, etc. 

CATARACT:  An opacity of the crystalline lens, or of its capsule, which prevents the passage of the rays of light and impairs or destroys the sight.  3. (Mach.)  A kind of hydraulic brake for regulating the action of pumping engines and other machines; -- sometimes called dashpot. 

CATARACTOUS:  Of the nature of a cataract in the eye; affected with cataract. 

CATARRH:  An inflammatory affection of any mucous membrane, in which there are congestion, swelling, and an altertion in the quantity and quality of mucus secreted; as catarrh of the stomach; catarrh of the bladder.  Note: In America, the term catarrh is applied especially to a chronic inflammation of, and hypersecretion fron, the membranes of the nose or air passages; in England, to an acute influenza, resulting a cold, and attended with cough, thirst, lassitude, and watery eyes; also, to the cold itself. 

CATARRHAL:  Pertaining to, produced by, or attending, catarrh; of the nature of catarrh. 

CATARRHINE:  One of the Catarrhina, a division of Quadrumana, including the Old World monkeys and apes which have the nostrils close together and turned downward. See Monkey. 

CATARRHOUS:  Catarrhal. [R.] 

CATASTALTIC:  Checking evacutions through astringent or styptic qualities. 

CATASTASIS:  That part of a speech, usually the exordium, in which the orator sets forth the subject matter to be discussed.  2. (Med.)  The state, or condition of anything; constitution; habit of body. 

CATASTERISM:  A placing among the stars; a catalogue of stars. The catasterisms of Eratosthenes. Whewell. 

CATASTROPHE:  A violent and widely extended change in the surface of the earth, as, an elevation or subsidence of some part of it, effected by internal causes. Whewell. 

CATASTROPHIC:  Of a pertaining to a catastrophe. B. Powell. 

CATASTROPHISM:  The doctrine that the geological changes in the earth's crust have been caused by the sudden action of violent physical causes; -- opposed to the doctrine of uniformism. 

CATASTROPHIST:  One who holds the theory or catastrophism. 

CATAWBAS:  ; sing. Catawba. (Ethnol.) An appalachian tribe of Indians which originally inhabited the regions near the Catawba river and the head waters of the Santee. 

CATBIRD:  An American bird (Galeoscoptes Carolinensis), allied to the mocking bird, and like it capable of imitating the notes of other birds, but less perfectly. Its note resembles at times the mewing of a cat. 

CATBOAT:  A small sailboat, with a single mast placed as far forward as possible, carring a sail extended by a graff and long boom. See Illustration in Appendix. 

CATCALL:  A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses to express dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrument for making such a noise. Upon the rising of the curtain. I was very much surprised with the great consort of catcalls which was exhibited. Addison. 

CATCH:  Passing opportunities seized; snatches. It has been writ by catches with many intervals. Locke.  7. A slight remembrance; a trace. We retain a catch of those pretty stories. Glanvill.  8. (Mus.)  A humorous canon or round, so contrived that the singers catch up each other's words. 

CATCHABLE:  Capable of being caught. [R.]  CATCH-BASIN Catch"-ba`sin, n.  A cistern or vault at the point where a street gutter discharges into a sewer, to oatch bulky matters which would not pass readly throught the sewer. Knight.  CATCH CROP Catch crop.  Any crop grown between the rows of another crop or intermediate between two crops in ordinary rotation in point of time. -- Catch"- crop`ping, n.  Radishes . . . are often grown as a catch crop with other vegetables. L. H. Bailey. 

CATCHDRAIN:  A dich or drain along the side of a hill to catch the surface water; also, a ditch at the side of a canal to catch the surplus water. 

CATCHER:  The player who stands behind the batsman to catch the ball. 

CATCHFLY:  A plant with the joints of the stem, and sometimes other parts, covered with a viscid secretion to which small insects adhere. The species of Silene are examples of the catchfly. 

CATCHING:  The act of seizing or taking hold of Catching bargain (Law), a bargain made with an heir expectant for the purchase of his expectancy at an inadequate price. Bouvier.  CATCH-MEADOW Catch"-mead`ow, n.  meadow irrigated by water from a spring or rivulet on the side of hill. 

CATCHMENT:  A surface of ground on which water may be caught and collected into a reservoir. 

CATCHPENNY:  Made or contrived for getting small sums of money from the ignorant or unwary; as, a catchpenny book; a catchpenny show.  -- n.  Some worthless catchpenny thing. 

CATCHPOLL:  A bailiff's assistant.  CATCH TITLE Catch title.  A short expressive title used for abbreviated book lists, etc.  CATCHUP; CATSUP Catch"up, Cat"sup, n. Etym: [Probably of East Indian origin, because it was originally a kind of East Indian pickles.]  A table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc. [Written also ketchup.] 

CATCHWATER:  A ditch or drain for catching water. See Catchdrain. 

CATCHWEED:  See Cleavers. 

CATCHWEIGHT:  Without any additional weight; without being handicapped; as, to ride catchweight. 

CATCHWORD:  The first word of any page of a book after the first, inserted at the right hand bottom corner of the preceding page for the assistance of the reader. It is seldom used in modern printing.  3. A word or phrase caught up and repeated for effect; as, the catchword of a political party, etc. 

CATCHWORK:  A work or artificial watercourse for throwing water on lands that lie on the slopes of hills; a catchdrain. 

CATE:  Food. [Obs.] See Cates.  CATECHETIC; CATECHETICAL Cat`e*chet"ic, Cat`e*chet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Catechise.]  Relating to or consisting in, asking questions and receiving answers, according to the ancient manner of teaching. Socrates introduced a catechetical method of arguing. Addison. 

CATECHETICALLY:  In a catechetical manner; by question and answer. 

CATECHETICS:  The science or practice of instructing by questions and answers. 

CATECHIN:  One of the tannic acids, extracted from catechu as a white, crystaline substance; -- called also catechuic acid, and catechuin. 

CATECHISATION:  The act of catechising. 

CATECHISER:  One who catechises. 

CATECHISMAL:  Of or pertaining to a catechism, having the form of questions and answers; catechical. 

CATECHIST:  One who instructs by question and answer, especially in religions matters.  CATECHISTIC; CATECHISTICAL Cat`e*chis"tic, Cat`e*chis"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to a catechist or to a catechism. Dr. H. More. 

CATECHIZE:  See Catechise. 

CATECHU:  A dry, brown, astringent extract, obtained by decoction and evaporation from the Acacia catechu, and several other plants growing in India. It contains a large portion of tannin or tannic acid, and is used in medicine and in the arts. It is also known by the names terra japonica, cutch, gambier, etc. Ure. Dunglison. 

CATECHUIC:  Of or pertaining to catechu or its derivatives. See catechin. 

CATECHUMEN:  One who is receiving rudimentary instruction in the doctrines of Christianity; a neophyte; in the primitive church, one officially recognized as a Christian, and admitted to instruction preliminary to admission to full membership in the church. 

CATECHUMENATE:  The state or condition of a catechumen or the time during which one is a catechumen. 

CATECHUMENICAL:  Of or pertaining to catechumens; as, catechumenical instructions. 

CATECHUMENIST:  A catechumen. Bp. Morton. 

CATEGOREMATIC:  Capable of being employed by itself as a term; -- said of a word. 

CATEGORICALLY:  Absolutely; directly; expressly; positively; as, to affirm categorically. 

CATEGORICALNESS:  The quality of being categorical, positive, or absolute. A. Marvell. 

CATEGORIST:  One who inserts in a category or list; one who classifies. Emerson. 

CATEGORIZE:  To insert in a category or list; to class; to catalogue. 

CATEGORY:  One of the highest classes to which the objects of knowledge or thought can be reduced, and by which they can be arranged in a system; an ultimate or undecomposable conception; a predicament. The categories or predicaments -- the former a Greek word, the latter its literal translation in the Latin language -- were intended by Aristotle and his followers as an enumeration of all things capable of being named; an enumeration by the summa genera i.e., the most extensive classes into which things could be distributed. J. S. Mill.  2. Class; also, state, condition, or predicament; as, we are both in the same category. There is in modern literature a whole class of writers standing within the same category. De Quincey. 

CATEL:  Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, or income. "For loss of catel may recovered be, But loss of tyme shendeth us," quod he. Chaucer. 

CATELECTRODE:  The negative electrode or pole of a voltaic battery. Faraday. 

CATELECTROTONIC:  Relating to, or characterized by, catelectrotonus. 

CATELECTROTONUS:  The condition of increased irritability of a nerve in the region of the cathode or negative electrode, on the passage of a current of electricity through it. 

CATENA:  A chain or series of things connected with each other. I have . . . in no case sought to construct those catenæ of games, which it seems now the fashion of commentators to link together. C. J. Ellicott.  CATENARY; CATENARIAN Cat"e*na*ry, Cat`e*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. catenarius, fr. catena a chain. See Chain.]  Relating to a chain; like a chain; as, a catenary curve. 

CATENARY:  The curve formed by a rope or chain of uniform density and perfect flexibility, hanging freely between two points of suspension, not in the same vertical line. 

CATENATE:  To connect, in a series of links or ties; to chain. E. Darwin. 

CATENATION:  Connection of links or union of parts, as in a chain; a regular or connected series. See Concatenation. Sir T. Browne. 

CATENULATE:  Chainlike; -- said both or color marks and of indentations when arranged like the links of a chain, as on shells, etc. 

CATER:  A provider; a purveyor; a caterer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CATER:  The four of cards or dice. 

CATER:  To cut diagonally. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

CATERAN:  A Highland robber: a kind of irregular soldier. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.  CATER-CORNERED Ca"ter-cor"nered, a. Etym: [Cf. Cater to cut diagonally.]  Diagonal. [Colloq.]  CATER-COUSIN Ca"ter-cous`in, n.  A remote relation. See Quater-cousin. Shak. 

CATERER:  One who caters. The little fowls in the air have God for Their provider and caterer. Shelton. 

CATERESS:  A woman who caters. Milton. 

CATERPILLAR:  The larval state of a butterfly or any lepidopterous insect; sometimes, but less commonly, the larval state of other insects, as the sawflies, which are also called false caterpillars. The true caterpillars have three pairs of true legs, and several pairs of abdominal fleshy legs (prolegs) armed with hooks. Some are hairy, others naked. They usually feed on leaves, fruit, and succulent vegetables, being often very destructive, Many of them are popularly called worms, as the cutworm, cankerworm, army worm, cotton worm, silkworm.  2. (Bot.)  A plant of the genus Scorpiurus, with pods resembling caterpillars. Caterpillar catcher, or Caterpillar eater (Zoöl.), a bird belonging to the family of Shrikes, which feeds on caterpillars. The name is also given to several other birds.  -- Caterpillar hunter (Zoöl.), any species of beetles of the genus Callosoma and other allied genera of the family Carabidæ which feed habitually upon caterpillars. 

CATERWAUL:  To cry as cats in rutting time; to make a harsh, offensive noise. Coleridge. 

CATERWAUL:  A caterwauling. 

CATERWAULING:  The cry of cats; a harsh, disagreeable noise or cry like the cry of cats. Shak. 

CATERY:  The place where provisions are deposited. [Obs.] 

CATES:  Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food; delicacies; dainties. Shak. Cates for which Apicius could not pay. Shurchill. Choicest cates and the fiagon's best spilth. R. Browning.  CAT-EYED Cat"-eyed`, a.  Having eyes like a cat; hence, able to see in the dark. 

CATFALL:  A rope used in hoisting the anchor to the cathead. Totten. 

CATFISH:  A name given in the United States to various species of siluroid fishes; as, the yellow cat (Amiurus natalis); the bind cat (Gronias nigrilabrus); the mud cat (Pilodictic oilwaris), the stone cat (Noturus flavus); the sea cat (Arius felis), etc. This name is also sometimes applied to the wolf fish. See Bullhead. 

CATGUT:  See catherine wheel. 

CATHARIST:  One aiming at or pretending to a greater purity of like than others about him; -- applied to persons of various sects. See Albigenses.  CAT-HARPIN Cat"-harp`in, n.  See Cat-harping.  CAT-HARPING Cat"-harp`ing n. (Naut.)  One of the short ropes or iron cramps used to brace in the shrouds toward the masts so a to give freer sweep to the yards. 

CATHARSIS:  A natural or artificial purgation of any passage, as of the mouth, bowels, etc.  CATHARTIC; CATHARICAL Ca*thar"tic, Ca*thar"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. chaste.]  1. (Med.)  Cleansing the bowels; promoting evacuations by stool; purgative.  2. Of or pertaining to the purgative principle of senna, as cathartic acid. 

CATHARTIC:  A medicine that promotes alvine discharges; a purge; a purgative of moderate activity.  Note: The cathartics are more energetic and certain in action that the laxatives, which simply increase the tendency to alvine evacuation; and less powerful and irritaint that the drastic purges, which cause profuse, repeated, and watery evacuations.  -- Ca*thar"tic*al*ly, adv.  -- Ca*thar"tic*al*ness, n. 

CATHARTIN:  The bitter, purgative principle of senna. It is a glucoside with the properties of a weak acid; -- called also cathartic acid, and cathartina. 

CATHAY:  China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have been introduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar name for North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.) Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay. Tennyson. 

CATHEAD:  A projecting piece of timber or iron near the bow of vessel, to which the anchor is hoisted and secured. 

CATHEDRA:  The official chair or throne of a bishop, or of any person in high authority. Ex cathedra Etym: [L., from the chair], in the exercise of one's office; with authority. The Vatican Council declares that the Pope, is infallible "when he speaks ex cathedra." Addis & Arnold's Cath. Dict. 

CATHEDRAL:  The principal church in a diocese, so called because in it the bishop has his official chair (Cathedra) or throne. 

CATHEDRALIC:  Cathedral. [R.] 

CATHEDRATED:  Relating to the chair or office of a teacher. [Obs.] 

CATHERETIC:  A mild kind caustic used to reduce warts and other excrescences. Dunglison.  CATHERINE WHEEL Cath"er*ine wheel`. Etym: [So called from St. Catherine of Alexandria, who is represented with a wheel, in allusion to her martyrdom.]  1. (Geoth.Arth.)  Same as Rose window and Wheel window. Called also Catherine- wheel window.  2. (Pyrotechny)  A revolving piece of fireworks resembling in form the window of the same name. [Written also Catharine wheel.] 

CATHETER:  The name of various instruments for passing along mucous canals, esp. applied to a tubular instrument to be introduced into the bladder through the urethra to draw off the urine. Eustachian catheter. See under Eustachian.  -- Prostatic catheter, one adapted for passing an enlarged prostate.  CATHETERISM; CATHETERIZATION Cath"e*ter*ism, Cath`e*ter*i*za"tion, n. (Med.)  The operation of introducing a catheter. 

CATHETERIZE:  To operate on with a catheter. Dunglison. 

CATHETOMETER:  An instrument for the accurate measurement of small differences of height; esp. of the differences in the height of the upper surfaces of two columns of mercury or other fluid, or of the same column at different times. It consists of a telescopic leveling apparatus (d), which slides up or down a perpendicular metallic standard very finely graduated (bb). The telescope is raised or depressed in order to sight the objects or surfaces, and the differences in vertical height are thus shown on the graduated standard. [Written also kathetometer.] 

CATHETUS:  One line or radius falling perpendicularly on another; as, the catheti of a right-angled triangle, that is, the two sides that include the right angle. Barlow. 

CATHODE:  The part of a voltaic battery by which the electric current leaves substances through which it passes, or the surface at which the electric current passes out of the electrolyte; the negative pole; -- opposed to anode. Faraday. Cathode ray (Phys.), a kind of ray generated at the cathode in a vacuum tube, by the electrical discharge. 

CATHODIC:  A term applied to the centrifugal, or efferent course of the nervous infuence. Marshall Hall.  CATHODOGRAPH; CATHODEGRAPH Ca*thod"o*graph, n. Also Ca*thod"e*graph. [Cathode + -graph.] (Physics)  A picture produced by the Röntgen rays; a radiograph.  CAT-HOLE Cat"-hole`, n. (Naut.)  One of two small holes astern, above the gunroom ports, through which hawsers may be passed. 

CATHOLICAL:  Catholic. [Obs.] 

CATHOLICIZE:  To make or to become catholic or Roman Catholic. 

CATHOLICLY:  In a catholic manner; generally; universally. Sir L. Cary. 

CATHOLICNESS:  The quality of being catholic; universality; catholicity. 

CATHOLICON:  A remedy for all diseases; a panacea. 

CATHOLICOS:  The spiritual head of the Armenian church, who resides at Etchmiadzin, Russia, and has ecclesiastical jurisdiction over, and consecrates the holy oil for, the Armenians of Russia, Turkey, and Persia, including the Patriarchs of Constantinople, Jerusalem, and Sis.  Note: The Patriarch of Constantinople is the civil head of the Armenians in Turkey. 

CATILINARIAN:  Pertaining to Catiline, the Roman conspirator; resembling Catiline's conspiracy. 

CATION:  An electro-positive substance, which in electro-decomposition is evolved at the cathode; -- opposed to anion. Faraday. 

CATKIN:  An ament; a species of inflorescence, consisting of a slender axis with many unisexual apetalous flowers along its sides, as in the willow and poplar, and (as to the staminate flowers) in the chestnut, oak, hickory, etc.  -- so called from its resemblance to a cat's tail. See Illust. of Ament. 

CATLIKE:  Like a cat; stealthily; noiselessly. 

CATLING:  A double-edged, sharp-pointed dismembering knife. [Spelt also catlin.] Crobb. 

CATLINITE:  A red clay from the Upper Missouri region, used by the Indians for their pipes.  CATNIP; CATMINT Cat"nip`, Cat"mint`, n. (Bot.)  A well-know plant of the genus Nepeta (N. Cataria), somewhat like mint, having a string scent, and sometimes used in medicine. It is so called because cats have a peculiar fondness for it.  CATO-CATHARTIC Cat`o-ca*thar"tic, n. Etym: [Gr. Cathartic.] (Med.)  A remedy that purges by alvine discharges. 

CATONIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the stern old Roman, Cato the Censor; severe; inflexible.  CAT O' NINE TAILS Cat" o' nine" tails`.  See under Cat. 

CATOPRON:  See Catopter.  CATOPTER; CATOPTRON Ca*top"ter, Ca*top"tron, n. Etym: [Gr.  A reflecting optical glass or instrument; a mirror. [Obs.]  CATOPTRIC; CATOPTRICAL Ca*top"tric, Ca*top"tric*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Catopter.]  Of or pertaining to catoptrics; produced by reflection. Catoptric light, a light in which the rays are concentrated by reflectors into a beam visible at a distance. 

CATOPTRICS:  That part of optics which explants the properties and phenomena of reflected light, and particularly that which is reflected from mirrors or polished bodies; --- formerly caled anacamptics. 

CATOPTROMANCY:  A species of divination, which was perforned by letting down a mirror into water, for a sick person to look at his face in it. If his countenance appeared distorted and ghastly, it was an ill omen; if fresh and healthy, it was favorable. 

CATPIPE:  See Catcall.  CAT-RIGGED Cat"-rigged`, a.  Rigged like a catboat.  CAT-SALT Cat"-salt`, n.  A sort of salt, finely granulated, formed out of the bittern or leach brine.  CAT'S-EYE Cat's"-eye`, n. (Min.)  A variety of quartz or chalcedony, exhibiting opalescent reflections from within, like the eye of a cat. The mane is given to other gems affording like effects, esp. the chrysoberyl.  CAT'S-FOOT Cat's`-foot, n. (Bot.)  A plant (Nepeta Glechoma) of the same genus with catnip; ground ivy.  CAT-SILVER Cat"-sil`ver, n.  Mica. [Archaic]  CATSKILL PERIOD Cats"kill pe`ri*od. (Geol.)  The closing subdivision of the Devonian age in America. The rocks of this period are well developed in the Catskill mountains, and extend south and west under the Carboniferous formation. See the Diagram under Geology. 

CATSO:  A base fellow; a rogue; a cheat. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  CAT'S-PAW Cat's"-paw`, n.  1. (Naut.) (a) A light transitory air which ruffles the surface of the water during a calm, or the ripples made by such a puff of air. (b) A particular hitch or turn in the bight of a rope, into which a tackle may be hooked.  2. A dupe; a tool; one who, or that which, is used by another as an instrument to a accomplish his purposes.  Note: In this sense the term refers to the fable of the monkey using the cat's paw to draw the roasting chestnuts out of the fire.  CAT'S-TAIL Cat's"-tail, n.  See Timothy, Cat-tail, Cirrus. 

CATSTICK:  A stick or club employed in the game of ball called cat or tipcat. Massinger. 

CATSTITCH:  To fold and sew down the edge of with a coarse zigzag stitch. 

CATSUP:  Same as Catchup, and Ketchup.  CAT-TAIL Cat"-tail, n. (Bot.)  A tall rush or flag (Typha latifolia) growing in marshes, with long, glat leaves, and having its flowers in a close cylindrical spike at the top of the stem. The leaves are frequently used for seating chairs, making mats, etc. See Catkin.  Note: The lesser cat-tail is Typha angustifolia. 

CATTISH:  Catlike; feline Drummond. 

CATTLE:  Quadrupeds of the Bovine family; sometimes, also, including all domestic quadrupeds, as sheep, goats, horses, mules, asses, and swine. Belted cattle, Black cattle. See under Belted, Black.  -- Cattle guard, a trench under a railroad track and alongside a crossing (as of a public highway). It is intended to prevent cattle from getting upon the track.  -- cattle louse (Zoöl.), any species of louse infecting cattle. There are several species. The Hæmatatopinus eurysternus and H. vituli are common species which suck blood; Trichodectes scalaris eats the hair.  -- Cattle plague, the rinderpest; called also Russian cattle plague.  -- Cattle range, or Cattle run, an open space through which cattle may run or range. [U. S.] Bartlett.  -- Cattle show, an exhibition of domestic animals with prizes for the encouragement of stock breeding; -- usually accompanied with the exhibition of other agricultural and domestic products and of implements. 

CATTY:  An East Indian Weight of 11/3 pounds. 

CAUCUS:  A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of persons belonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or to select delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regarding measures of party policy; a political primary meeting. This day learned that the caucus club meets, at certain times, in the garret of Tom Dawes, the adjutant of the Boston regiment. John Adams's Diary [Feb. , 1763]. 

CAUCUS:  To hold, or meet in, a caucus or caucuses. 

CAUDAD:  Backwards; toward the tail or posterior part.  CAUDA GALLI Cau"da gal*li, (. Etym: [L., tail of a cock.] (Paleon.)  A plume-shaped fossil, supposed to be a seaweed, characteristic of the lower Devonian rocks; as, the cauda galli grit. Gauda galli epoch (Geol.), an epoch at the begining of the Devonian age in eastern America, so named from the characteristic gritty sandstone marked with impressions of cauda galli. See the Diagram under Geology. 

CAUDAL:  Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a tail; having a tail-like appendage. The male widow-bird, remarkable for his caudal plumes. Darwin. Caudal fin (Zoöl.), the terminal fin (or "tail") of a fish. 

CAUDATA:  See Urodela.  CAUDATE; CAUDATED Cau"date, Cau"da*ted. a. Etym: [L. cauda tail.]  Having a taill; having a termination like a tail. 

CAUDEX:  The sterm of a tree., esp. a sterm without a branch, as of a palm or a tree fern; also, the pernnial rootstock of an herbaceous plant.  CAUDICLE; CAUDICULA Cau"di*cle, Cau*dic"u*la, n. Etym: [Dim. of L. cauda tail, appendage.] (Bot.)  A slender, elastic process, to which the masses of pollen in orchidaceous plants are attached. 

CAUDLE:  A kind of warm drink for sick persons, being a mixture of wine with eggs, bread, sugar, and spices. 

CAUF:  A chest with holes for keeping fish alive in water. Philips. 

CAUFLE:  A gung of slaves. Same as Coffle. 

CAUGHT:  f Catch.  CAUK; CAUKER Cauk, n., Cauk"er, n.  See Cawk, Calker. 

CAUL:  The fold of membrane loaded with fat, which covers more or less of the intestines in mammals; the great omentum See Omentum. The caul serves for warming of the lower belly. Ray.  3. A part of the amnion, one of the membranes enveloping the fetus, which sometimes is round the head of a child at its birth. It is deemed lucky to be with a caul or membrane over the face. This caul is esteemed an infallible preservative against drowning . . . According to Chysostom, the midwives frequently sold it for magic uses. Grose. I was born with a caul, which was advertised for sale, in the newspapers, at the low price of fifteen guineas. Dickens. 

CAULESCENT:  Having a leafy stem. 

CAULICLE:  A short caulis or stem, esp. the rudimentary stem seen in the embryo of seed; -- otherwise called a radicle. 

CAULICULUS:  In the Corinthian capital, one of the eight stalks rising out of the lower leafage and terminating in leaves which seem to suport the volutes. See Illust. of Corinthian order, under Corinthian. 

CAULIFLOWER:  An annual variety of Brassica oleracea, or cabbage of which the cluster of young flower stalks and buds is eaten as a vegetable.  2. The edible head or "curd" of a caulifower plant. 

CAULIFORM:  Having the form of a caulis. 

CAULINE:  Growing immediately on a caulis; of or pertaining to a caulis. 

CAULIS:  An herbaceous or woody stem which bears leaves, and may bear flowers. 

CAULK:  See Calk. 

CAULOCARPOUS:  Having stems which bear flowers and fruit year after year, as most trees and shrubs. 

CAULOME:  A stem structure or stem axis of a plant, viewed as a whole. -- Cau*lom"ic (#), a. 

CAUMA:  Great heat, as of the body in fever. 

CAUPONIZE:  To sell wine or victuals. [Obs.] Warburfon. 

CAUSABLE:  Capable of being caused. 

CAUSAL:  Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a cause or causes; expressing a cause; causative. Causal propositions are where two propositions are joined by causal words. Watts. 

CAUSAL:  A causal word or form of speech. Anglo-Saxon drencan to drench, causal of Anglo-Saxon drincan to drink. Skeat. 

CAUSALITY:  The faculty of tracing effects to their causes. G. Combe. 

CAUSALLY:  According to the order or series of causes; by tracing effects to causes. 

CAUSALLY:  The lighter, earthy parts of ore, carried off washing. 

CAUSATION:  The act of causing; also the act or agency by which an effect is produced. The kind of causation by which vision is produced. Whewell. Law of universal causation, the theoretical or asserted law that every event or phenomenon results from, or is the sequel of, some previous event or phenomenon, which being present, the other is certain to take place. 

CAUSATIONIST:  One who believes in the law of universal causation. 

CAUSATIVE:  A word which expresses or suggests a cause. 

CAUSATIVELY:  In a causative manner. 

CAUSATOR:  One who causes. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

CAUSE:  A suit or action in court; any legal process by which a party endeavors to obtain his claim, or what he regards as his right; case; ground of action.  5. Any subject of discussion or debate; matter; question; affair in general. What counsel give you in this weighty cause! Shak.  6. The side of a question, which is espoused, advocated, and upheld by a person or party; a principle which is advocated; that which a person or party seeks to attain. God befriend us, as our cause is just. Shak. The part they take against me is from zeal to the cause. Burke. Efficient cause, the agent or force that produces a change or redult.  -- Final cause, the end, design, or object, for which anything is done.  -- Formal cause, the elements of a conception which make the conception or the thing conceived to be what it is; or the idea viewed as a formative principle and coöperating with the matter.  -- Material cause, that of which anything is made.  -- Proximate cause. See under Proximate.  -- To make common cause with, to join with in purposes and aims. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Origin; source; mainspring; motive; reason; incitement; inducement; purpose; object; suit; action. 

CAUSE:  To effect as an agent; to produce; to be the occasion of; to bring about; to bring into existence; to make; -- usually followed by an infinitive, sometimes by that with a finite verb. I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days. Gen. vii. 4. Cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans. Col. iv. 16.  Syn.  -- To create; produce; beget; effect; occasion; originate; induce; bring about. 

CAUSE:  To assign or show cause; to give a reason; to make excuse. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CAUSE:  Abbreviation of Because. B. Jonson. 

CAUSEFUL:  Having a cause. [Obs.] 

CAUSELESS:  1. Self-originating; uncreated.  2. Without just or sufficient reason; groundless. My fears are causeless and ungrounded. Denham. 

CAUSELESS:  Without cause or reason. 

CAUSELESSNESS:  The state of being causeless. 

CAUSER:  One who or that which causes. 

CAUSERIE:  Informal talk or discussion, as about literary matters; light conversation; chat. 

CAUSEUSE:  A kind of sofa for two person. A tête-a-tête.  CAUSEWAY; CAUSEY Cause"way, Cau"sey, n. Etym: [OE. cauci, cauchie, OF. cauchie, F. chaussée, from LL. (via) calciata, fr calciare to make a road, either fr. L. calx lime, hence, to pave with limestone (cf. E. chalk), or from L. calceus shoe, from calx heel, hence, to shoe, pave, or wear by treading.]  A way or road rasid above the natural level of the ground, serving as a dry passage over wet or marshy ground. But that broad causeway will direct your way. Dryden. The other way Satan went down The causey to Hell-gate. Milton.  CAUSEWAYED; CAUSEYED Cause"wayed, Cau"seyed. a.  Having a raised way (causeway or causey); paved. Sir W. Scott. C. Bronté. 

CAUSIDICAL:  Pertaining to an advocate, or to the maintenance and defense of suits.  CAUSTIC; CAUSTICAL Caus"tic, Caus"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. caustucs, Ge. Calm, Ink.]  1. Capable of destroying the texture of anything or eating away its substance by chemical action; burning; corrosive; searing.  2. Severe; satirical; sharp; as, a caustic remark. Caustic curve (Optics), a curve to which the ray of light, reflected or refracted by another curve, are tangents, the reflecting or refracting curve and the luminous point being in one plane.  -- Caustic lime. See under Lime.  -- Caustic potash, Caustic soda (Chem.), the solid hydroxides potash, KOH, and soda, NaOH, or solutions of the same.  -- Caustic silver, nitrate of silver, lunar caustic.  -- Caustic surface (Optics), a surface to which rays reflected or refracted by another surface are tangents. Caustic curves and surfaces are called catacaustic when formed by reflection, and diacaustic when formed by refraction.  Syn.  -- Stinging; cutting; pungent; searching. 

CAUSTIC:  A caustic curve or caustic surface. 

CAUSTICALLY:  In a caustic manner. 

CAUSTICNESS:  The quality of being caustic; causticity. 

CAUTER:  A hot iron for searing or cauterizing. Minsheu. 

CAUTERANT:  A cauterizing substance. 

CAUTERISM:  The use or application of a caustic; cautery. Ferrand. 

CAUTERIZATION:  The act of searing some morbid part by the application of a cautery or caustic; also, the effect of such application. 

CAUTERY:  A burning or searing, as of morbid flesh, with a hot iron, or by application of a caustic that will burn, corrode, or destroy animal tissue.  2. The iron of other agent in cauterizing. Actual cautery, a substance or agent (as a hot iron) which cauterizes or sears by actual heat; or the burning so effected.  -- Potential cautery, a substance which cauterizes by chemical action; as, lunar caustic; also, the cauterizing produced by such substance. 

CAUTION:  To give notice of danger to; to warn; to exhort [one] to take heed. You cautioned me against their charms. Swift. 

CAUTIONARY:  A block in which two or more trains are permitted to travel, under restrictions imposed by a caution card or the like. 

CAUTIONER:  A surety or sponsor. 

CAUTIONRY:  Suretyship. 

CAUTIOUS:  Attentive to examine probable effects and consequences of acts with a view to avoid danger or misfortune; prudent; circumspect; wary; watchful; as, a cautious general. Cautious feeling for another's pain. Byron. Be swift to hear; but cautious of your tongue. Watts.  Syn.  -- Wary; watchful; vigilant; prudent; circumspect; discreet; heedful; thoughtful; scrupulous; anxious; careful.  -- Cautious, Wary, Circumspect. A man is cautious who realizes the constant possibility of danger; one may be wary, and yet bold and active; a man who is circumspect habitually examines things on every side in order to weigh and deliberate. It is necessary to be cautious at all times; to be wary in cases of extraordinary danger; to be circumspect in matters of peculiar delicacy and difficulty. 

CAUTIOUSLY:  In a cautious manner. 

CAUTIOUSNESS:  The quality of being cautious. 

CAVALCADE:  A procession of persons on horseback; a formal, pompous march of horsemen by way of parade. He brought back war-worn cavalcade to the city. Prescott.  CAVALERO; CAVALIERO Cav`a*le"ro, Cav`a*lie"ro, n. Etym: [Sp. caballero. See Cavalier.]  A cavalier; a gallant; a libertine. Shak. 

CAVALIER:  A work of more that ordinary heigh, rising from the level ground of a bastion, etc., and overlooking surrounding parts. 

CAVALIER:  Gay; easy; offhand; frank. The plodding, persevering scupulous accuracy of the one, and the easy, cavalier, verbal fluency of the other, from a complete contrast. Hazlitt.  2. High-spirited. [Obs.] "The people are naturally not valiant, and not much cavalier." Suckling.  3. Supercilious; haughty; disdainful; curt; brusque.  4. Of or pertaining to the party of King Charles I. "An old Cavalier family." Beaconsfleld. 

CAVALIERISH:  Somewhat like a cavalier. 

CAVALIERISM:  The practice or principles of cavaliers. Sir. W. Scott. 

CAVALIERLY:  In a supercilious, disdainful, or haughty manner; arroganty. Junius. 

CAVALIERNESS:  A disdanful manner. 

CAVALLY:  A carangoid fish of the Atlantic coast (Caranx hippos): -- called also horse crevallé.  Note: [See Illust. under Carangoid.] 

CAVALRY:  That part of military force which serves on horseback.  Note: Heavy cavalry and light cavalry are so distinguished by the character of their armament, and by the size of the men and horses. 

CAVALRYMAN:  One of a body of cavalry. 

CAVATINA:  Originally, a melody of simpler form than the aria; a song without a second part and a da capo; -- a term now variously and vaguely used. 

CAVE:  To make hollow; to scoop out. [Obs.] The mouldred earth cav'd the banke. Spenser. 

CAVE:  To fall in or down; as, the sand bank caved. Hence (Slang), to retreat from a position; to give way; to yield in a disputed matter. To cave in. Etym: [Flem. inkalven.] (a) To fall in and leave a hollow, as earth on the side of a well or pit. (b) To submit; to yield. [Slang] H. Kingsley. 

CAVEAT:  A notice given by an interested party to some officer not to do a certain act until the party is heard in opposition; as, a caveat entered in a probate court to stop the proving of a will or the taking out of letters of administration, etc. Bouvier.  2. (U. S. Patent Laws)  A description of some invention, designed to be patented, lodged in the patent office before the patent right is applied for, and operating as a bar to the issue of letters patent to any other person, respecting the same invention.  Note: A caveat is operative for one year only, but may be renewed.  3. Intimation of caution; warning; protest. We think it right to enter our caveat against a conclusion. Jeffrey. Caveat emptor Etym: [L.] (Law), let the purchaser beware, i. e., let him examine the article he is buying, and act on his own judgment. 

CAVEATING:  Shifting the sword from one side of an adversary's sword to the other. 

CAVEATOR:  One who enters a caveat. 

CAVENDISH:  Leaf tobacco softened, sweetened, and pressed into plugs or cakes. Cut cavendish, the plugs cut into long shreds for smoking. 

CAVERN:  A large, deep, hollow place in the earth; a large cave. 

CAVERNULOUS:  Full of little cavities; as, cavernulous metal. Black.  CAVESSON; CAVEZON Cav"es*son, Cav"e*zon, n. Etym: [F. caveçon, augm. fr. LL. capitium a head covering hood, fr. L. caput head. Cf. Caberzon.] (Man.)  A kind of noseband used in breaking and training horses. [Written also caveson, causson.] White. 

CAVETTO:  A concave molding; -- used chiefly in classical architecture. See Illust. of Calumn.  CAVIARE; CAVIAR Ca*viare", Cav"i*ar, n. Etym: [F. caviar, fr. It. caviale, fr. Turk. Havi\'ber.]  The roes of the sturgeon, prepared and salted; -- used as a relish, esp. in Russia.  Note: Caviare was considered a delicacy, by some, in Shakespeare's time, but was not relished by most. Hence Hamlet says of a certain play. "'T was caviare to the general," i. e., above the taste of the common people. 

CAVICORN:  Having hollow horns. 

CAVICORNIA:  A group of ruminants whose horns are hollow, and planted on a bony process of the front, as the ox. 

CAVIL:  To raise captious and frivolous objections; to find fault without good reason. You do not well in obstinacy To cavil in the course of this contract. Shak. 

CAVIL:  To cavil at. [Obs.] Milton. 

CAVIL:  A captious or frivolous objection. All the cavils of prejudice and unbelief. Shak.  CAVIL; CAVILER; CAVILLER Cav"il or Cav"il*er, n.  One who cavils. Cavilers at the style of the Scriptures. Boyle. 

CAVILING:  Disposed to cavil; finding fault without good reason. See Captious. His depreciatory and caviling criticism. Lewis. 

CAVILINGLY:  In a caviling manner. 

CAVILLATION:  Frivolous or sophistical objection. [Obs.] Hooker.  CAVILOUS; CAVILLOUS Cav"il*ous or Cav"il*lous, a. Etym: [L. cavillosus.]  Characterized by caviling, or disposed to cavil; quibbing. [R.] -- Cav"il*ous*ly, adv. [R.] -- Cav"il*ous*ness, n. [R.] 

CAVIN:  A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate their aproach to a place. Farrow. 

CAVITARY:  Containing a body cavity; as, the cavitary or nematoid worms. 

CAVITY:  Cavo-rilievo.  CAVO-RILIEVO Ca"vo-ri*lie"vo, n. Etym: [It.] (Sculp.)  Hollow relief; sculpture in relief within a sinking made for the purpose, so no part of it projects beyond the plain surface around. 

CAVORT:  To prance ostentatiously; -- said of a horse or his rider. [Local slang U. S.] 

CAVY:  A rodent of the genera cavia and Dolichotis, as the guinea pig (Cavia cabaya). Cavies are natives of South America. Water cavy (Zoöl.), The capybara. 

CAW:  To cry like a crow, rook, or raven. Rising and cawing at the gun's report. Shak. 

CAW:  The cry made by the crow, rook, or raven. 

CAWK:  An opaque, compact variety of barite, or heavy spar. [Also written cauk.] 

CAWKER:  See Calker. 

CAWKY:  Of or pertaining to cawk; like cawk. 

CAXON:  A kind of wig. [Obs.] Lamb. 

CAXTON:  Any book printed by William Caxton, the first English printer. Hansard. 

CAY:  See Key, a ledge. 

CAYENNE:  Cayenne pepper. Cayenne pepper. (a) (Bot.) A species of capsicum (C. frutescens) with small and intensely pungent fruit. (b) A very pungent spice made by drying and grinding the fruits or seeds of several species of the genus Capsicum, esp. C. annuum and C. Frutescens; -- Called also red pepper. It is used chiefly as a condiment. 

CAYMAN:  The south America alligator. See Alligator. [Sometimes written caiman.] 

CAYO:  A small island or ledge of rock in the water; a key. [Sp. Am.] 

CAYUGAS:  ; sing Cayuga. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians formerly inbabiting western New-York, forming part of the confederacy called the Five Nations. 

CAYUSE:  An Indian pony. [Northw. U. S.]  CAZIQUE; CAZIC Ca*zique", Cazic", n. Etym: [Sp. Cacique, fr. the language of Hayti.]  A chief or petty king among some tribes of Indians in America.  CC IRA Ça" i*ra". [F. ça ira, ça ira, les aristocrates à la lanterne, it shall go on, it shall go on, [hang]the arictocrats to the lantern (lamp-post).]  The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution. 

CEASE:  To put a stop to; to bring to an end. But he, her fears to cease Sent down the meek-eyed peace. Milton. Cease, then, this impious rage. Milton 

CEASE:  Extinction. [Obs.] Shak. 

CEASELESS:  Without pause or end; incessant. 

CEASELESS:  Without intermission or end. 

CECIDOMYIA:  A genus of small dipterous files, including several very injurious species, as the Hessian fly. See Hessian fly. 

CECITY:  Blindness. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

CECUTIENCY:  Partial blindness, or a tendency to blindness. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

CEDAR:  The name of several evergreen trees. The wood is remarkable for its durability and fragrant odor.  Note: The cedar of Lebanon is the Cedrus Libani; the white cedar (Cupressus thyoides) is now called Chamoecyparis sphæroidea; American red cedar is the Juniperus Virginiana; Spanish cedar, the West Indian Cedrela odorata. Many other trees with odoriferous wood are locally called cedar. Cedar bird (Zoöl.), a species of chatterer (Ampelis cedrarum), so named from its frequenting cedar trees; -- called also cherry bird, Canada robin, and American waxwing. 

CEDAR:  Of or pertaining to cedar. 

CEDARED:  Covered, or furnished with, cedars. 

CEDARN:  Of or pertaining to the cedar or its wood. [R.] 

CEDE:  To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede a fortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty. The people must cede to the government some of their natural rights. Jay. 

CEDILLA:  A mark placed under the letter c [thus, ç], to show that it is to be sounded like s, as in façade. 

CEDRAT:  Properly the citron, a variety of Citrus medica, with large fruits, not acid, and having a high perfume. 

CEDRENE:  A rich aromatic oil, C15H24, extracted from oil of red cedar, and regarded as a polymeric terpene; also any one of a class of similar substances, as the essential oils of cloves, cubebs, juniper, etc., of which cedrene proper is the type. [Written also cedren.] 

CEDRINE:  Of or pertaining to cedar or the cedar tree. 

CEDRIRET:  Same as Coerulignone. 

CEDRY:  Of the nature of cedar. [R.] 

CEDULE:  A scroll; a writing; a schedule. [Obs.] 

CEDUOUS:  Fit to be felled. [Obs.] Eyelyn. 

CEILING:  The inner planking of a vessel. Camp ceiling. See under Camp.  -- Ceiling boards, Thin narrow boards used to ceil with. 

CEINT:  A girdle. [Obs.] 

CEINTURE:  A cincture, girdle, or belt; -- chiefly used in English as a dressmaking term. 

CELADON:  A pale sea-green color; also, porcelain or fine pottery of this tint.  CELANDINE; CALANDINE Cel"an*dine, Cal"an*dine, n. Etym: [OE. celidoine, OF. celidoine, F. chélidoine, fr. L. chelidonia (sc. herba), fr. chelidonius pertaining to the swallow, Gr. hirundo a swallow.] (Bot.)  A perennial herbaceous plant (Chelidonium majus) of the poppy family, with yellow flowers. It is used as a medicine in jandice, etc., and its acrid saffron-colored juice is used to cure warts and the itch; -- called also greater celandine and swallowwort. Lasser celandine, the pilewort (Ranunculus Ficaria). 

CELEBRANT:  One who performs a public religious rite; -- applied particularly to an officiating priest in the Roman Catholic Church, as distinguished from his assistants. 

CELEBRATED:  Having celebrity; distinguished; renowned. Celebrated for the politeness of his manners. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Distinguished; famous; noted; famed; renowned; illustrious. See Distinguished. 

CELEBRATION:  The act, process, or time of celebrating. His memory deserving a particular celebration. Clarendok. Celebration of Mass is equivalent to offering Mass Cath. Dict. To hasten the celebration of their marriage. Sir P. Sidney. 

CELEBRATOR:  One who celebrates; a praiser. Boyle. 

CELEBRIOUS:  Famous. [Obs.] Speed. 

CELERIAC:  Turnip-rooted celery, a from of celery with a large globular root, which is used for food. 

CELERITY:  Rapidity of motion; quickness; swiftness. Time, with all its celerity, moves slowly to him whose whole employment is to watch its flight. Johnson. 

CELERY:  A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens), of which the blanched leafstalks are used as a salad. 

CELESTIALIZE:  To make celestial. [R.] 

CELESTIALLY:  In a celestial manner. 

CELESTIFY:  To make like heaven. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  CELESTINE; CELESTITE Cel"es*tine, Cel"es*tite,, n. Etym: [LL. caelestinus bine.] (Min.)  Native strontium sulphate, a mineral so named from its occasional delicate blue color. It occurs crystallized, also in compact massive and fibrous forms.  CELESTINE; CELESTINIAN Cel"es*tine, Cel`es*tin"i*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)  A monk of the austere branch of the Franciscan Order founded by Celestine V. in the 13th centry. 

CELIAC:  See Coellac. 

CELIBACY:  The state of being unmarried; single life, esp. that of a bachelor, or of one bound by vows not to marry. "The celibacy of the clergy." Hallom. 

CELIBATE:  Unmarried; single; as, a celibate state. 

CELIBATIST:  One who lives unmarried. [R.] 

CELIDOGRAPHY:  A description of apparent spots on the disk of the sun, or on planets. 

CELL:  A jar of vessel, or a division of a compound vessel, for holding the exciting fluid of a battery.  6. (Biol.)  One of the minute elementary structures, of which the greater part of the various tissues and organs of animals and plants are composed.  Note: All cells have their origin in the primary cell from which the organism was developed. In the lowest animal and vegetable forms, one single cell constitutes the complete individual, such being called unicelluter orgamisms. A typical cell is composed of a semifluid mass of protoplasm, more or less granular, generally containing in its center a nucleus which in turn frequently contains one or more nucleoli, the whole being surrounded by a thin membrane, the cell wall. In some cells, as in those of blood, in the amoeba, and in embryonic cells (both vegetable and animal), there is no restricting cell wall, while in some of the unicelluliar organisms the nucleus is wholly wanting. See Illust. of Bipolar. Air cell. See Air cell.  -- Cell development (called also cell genesis, cell formation, and cytogenesis), the multiplication, of cells by a process of reproduction under the following common forms; segmentation or fission, gemmation or budding, karyokinesis, and endogenous multiplication. See Segmentation, Gemmation, etc.  -- Cell theory. (Biol.) See Cellular theory, under Cellular. 

CELL:  To place or inclosed in a cell. "Celled under ground." [R.] Warner. 

CELLA:  The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, as distinguished from the open porticoes. 

CELLAR:  A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surface of the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept. 

CELLARER:  A steward or butler of a monastery or chapter; one who has charge of procuring and keeping the provisions. 

CELLARET:  A receptacle, as in a dining room, for a few bottles of wine or liquor, made in the form of a chest or coffer, or a deep drawer in a sideboard, and usually lined with metal. 

CELLARIST:  Same as Cellarer. 

CELLED:  Containing a cell or cells. 

CELLEPORE:  A genus of delicate branching corals, made up of minute cells, belonging to the Bryozoa. 

CELLIFEROUS:  Bearing or producing cells. 

CELLO:  A contraction for Violoncello. 

CELLULAR:  Consisting of, or containing, cells; of or pertaining to a cell or cells. Cellular plants, Cellular cryptogams (Bot.), those flowerless plants which have no ducts or fiber in their tissue, as mosses, fungi, lichens, and algæ.  -- Cellular theory, or Cell theory (Biol.), a theory, according to which the essential element of every tissue, either vegetable or animal, is a cell; the whole series of cells having been formed from the development of the germ cell and by differentiation converted into tissues and organs which, both in plants ans animals, are to be considered as a mass of minute cells communicating with each other.  -- Cellular tissue. (a) (Anat.) See conjunctive tissue under Conjunctive. (b) (Bot.) Tissue composed entirely of parenchyma, and having no woody fiber or ducts. cellular telephone, a portable radio- telephone transmitting and receiving the radio-telephonic signals from one of a group of transmitter-receiver stations so arranged that they provide adequate signal contact for such telephones over a certain geographical area. The area within which one transmitter may service such portable telephones is called its "cell. 

CELLULATED:  Cellular. Caldwell. 

CELLULE:  A small cell. 

CELLULIFEROUS:  Bearing or producing little cells. 

CELLULITIS:  An inflammantion of the cellular or areolar tissue, esp. of that lying immediately beneath the skin. 

CELLULOID:  A substance composed essentially of gun cotton and camphor, and when pure resembling ivory in texture and color, but variously colored to imitate coral, tortoise shell, amber, malachite, etc. It is used in the manufacture of jewelry and many small articles, as combs, brushes, collars, and cuffs; -- originaly called xylonite. 

CELLULOSE:  Consisting of, or containing, cells. 

CELLULOSE:  The substance which constitutes the essential part of the solid framework of plants, of ordinary wood, linen, paper, etc. It is also found to a slight extent in certain animals, as the tunicates. It is a carbohydrate, (C6H10O5)n, isomeric with starch, and is convertible into starches and sugars by the action of heat and acids. When pure, it is a white amorphous mass. See Starch, Granulose, Lignin. Unsized, well bleached linen paper is merely pure cellulose. Goodale. Starch cellulose, the delicate framework which remains when the soluble part (granulose) of starch is removed by saliva or pepsin. Goodale. 

CELOTOMY:  The act or operation of cutting, to relieve the structure in strangulated hernia. [Frequently written kelotomy.] 

CELSITURE:  Height; altitude. [Obs.] 

CELSIUS:  The Celsius thermometer or scale, so called from Anders Celsius, a Swedish astronomer, who invented it. It is the same as the centigrade thermometer or scale. 

CELT:  One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited a great part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants at the present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, and the northern shores of France. [Written also Kelt. The letter C was pronounced hard in Celtic languages.] 

CELT:  A weapon or implement of stone or metal, found in the tumuli, or barrows, of the early Celtic nations. 

CELTIBERIAN:  Of or pertaining to the ancient Celtiberia (a district in Spain lying between the Ebro and the Tagus) or its inhabitants the Celtiberi (Celts of the river Iberus).  -- n.  An inhabitant of Celtiberia. 

CELTIC:  Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes, literature, tongue. [Written also Keltic.] 

CELTIC:  The language of the Celts.  Note: The remains of the old Celtic language are found in the Gaelic, the Erse or Irish the Manx, and the Welsh and its cognate dialects Cornish and Bas Breton. 

CELTICISM:  A custom of the Celts, or an idiom of their language. Warton. 

CELTICIZE:  To render Celtic; to assimilate to the Celts. 

CELTIUM:  A supposed new element of the rare-earth group, accompanying lutecium and scandium in the gadolinite earths. Symbol, Ct (no period). 

CEMBALO:  An old mname for the harpsichord. 

CEMENT:  The layer of bone investing the root and neck of a tooth; -- called also cementum. Hydraulic cement. See under Hydraulic. 

CEMENT:  To become cemented or firmly united; to cohere. S. Sharp. 

CEMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to cement, as of a tooth; as, cemental tubes. R. Owen. 

CEMENTATION:  A process which consists in surrounding a solid body with the powder of other substances, and heating the whole to a degree not sufficient to cause fusion, the physical properties of the body being changed by chemical combination with powder; thus iron becomes steel by cementation with charcoal, and green glass becomes porcelain by cementation with sand. 

CEMENTATORY:  Having the quality of cementating or uniting firmly. 

CEMENTER:  A person or thing that cements. 

CEMENTITIOUS:  Of the nature of cement. [R.] Forsyth.  CEMENT STEEL Ce*ment" steel.  Steel produced by cementation; blister steel. 

CEMETERIAL:  Of or pertaining to a cemetery. "Cemeterial cells." [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

CEMETERY:  A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; a graveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis. 

CENANTHY:  The absence or suppression of the essential organs (stamens and pistil) in a flower. 

CENATION:  Meal-taking; dining or supping. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CENATORY:  Of or pertaining to dinner or supper. [R.] The Romans washed, were anointed, and wore a cenatory garment. Sir T. Browne. 

CENOBITE:  One of a religious order, dwelling in a convent, or a community, in opposition to an anchoret, or hermit, who lives in solitude. Gibbon.  CENOBITIC; CENOBITICAL Cen`o*bit"ic, Cen`o*bit"ic*al a. Etym: [Cf. F. cénobitique.]  Of or pertaining to a cenobite. 

CENOBITISM:  The state of being a cenobite; the belief or practice of a cenobite. Milman. 

CENOGAMY:  The state of a communty which permits promiseuous sexual intercourse among its members, as in certain societies practicing communism. 

CENOTAPH:  An empty tomb or a monument erected in honor of a person who is buried elsewhere. Dryden. A cenotaph in Westminster Abbey. Macaulay. 

CENOTAPHY:  A cenotaph. [R.] Lord Cobham honored him with a cenotaphy. Macaulay. 

CENOZOIC:  Belonging to the most recent division of geological time, including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Age of man. [Written also cænozoic, cainozoic, kainozoic.] See Geology.  Note: This word is used by many authors as synonymous with Tertiary, the Quaternary Age not being included. 

CENSE:  To perfume with odors from burning gums and spices. The Salii sing and cense his altars round. Dryden. 

CENSE:  To burn or scatter incense. 

CENSER:  A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.  Note: The ecclesiastical censer is usually cup-shaped, has a cover pierced with holes, and is hung by chains. The censer bearer swings it to quicken the combustion. Her thoughts are like the fume of frankincense Which from a golden censer forth doth rise. Spenser. 

CENSOR:  One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of the number and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office of inspector of morals and conduct.  2. One who is empowered to examine manuscripts before they are committed to the press, and to forbid their publication if they contain anything obnoxious; -- an official in some European countries.  3. One given to fault-finding; a censurer. Nor can the most circumspect attention, or steady rectitude, escape blame from censors who have no inclination to approve. Rambler.  4. A critic; a reviewer. Received with caution by the censors of the press. W. Irving. 

CENSORIAN:  Censorial. [R.] Bacon. 

CENSORSHIP:  The office or power of a censor; as, to stand for a censorship. Holland. The press was not indeed at that moment under a general censorship. Macaulay. 

CENSUAL:  Relating to, or containing, a census. He caused the whole realm to be described in a censual roll. Sir R. Baker. 

CENSURABLE:  Deserving of censure; blamable; culpable; reprehensible; as, a censurable person, or censurable conduct.  -- Cen"sur*a*bleness, n.  -- Cen"sur*a*bly, adv. 

CENSURE:  To judge. [Obs.] Shak. 

CENSURER:  One who censures. Sha. 

CENSUS:  A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, for the purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in five years.  2. An official registration of the number of the people, the value of their estates, and other general statistics of a country.  Note: A general census of the United States was first taken in 1790, and one has been taken at the end of every ten years since. 

CENTAGE:  Rate by the hundred; percentage. 

CENTAL:  A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in many parts of the United States a Hundredweight. 

CENTAL:  Relating to a hundred. Cental system, the method of buying and selling by the cental, or hundredweight. 

CENTARE:  A measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one square meter, or about 1 

CENTAUR:  A fabulous being, represented as half man and half horse.  2. (Astron.)  A constellation in the southern heavens between Hydra and the Southern Cross. 

CENTAUREA:  A large genus of composite plants, related to the thistles and including the cornflower or bluebottle (Centaurea Cyanus) and the star thistle (C. Calcitrapa). 

CENTAUROMACHY:  A fight in which centaurs take part, -- a common theme for relief sculpture, as in the Parthenon metopes. 

CENTAURY:  A gentianaceous plant not fully identified. The name is usually given to the Erytheræa Centaurium and the Chlora perfoliata of Europe, but is also extended to the whole genus Sabbatia, and even to the unrelated Centaurea. 

CENTENARIAN:  Of or relating to a hundred years.  -- n.  A person a hundred years old. 

CENTENNIAL:  The celebration of the hundredth anniversary of any event; a centenary. [U. S.] 

CENTENNIALLY:  Once in a hundred years.  CENTENNIAL STATE Centennial State.  Colorado; -- a nickname alluding to the fact that it was admitted to the Union in the centennial year, 1876. 

CENTER:  A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault or arch are supported in position util the work becomes self-supporting.  7. (Mech.) (a) One of the two conical steel pins, in a lathe, etc., upon which the work is held, and about which it revolves. (b) A conical recess, or indentation, in the end of a shaft or other work, to receive the point of a center, on which the work can turn, as in a lathe.  Note: In a lathe the live center is in the spindle of the head stock; the dead center is on the tail stock. Planer centers are stocks carrying centers, when the object to be planed must be turned on its axis. Center of an army, the body or troops ossupying the place in the line between the wings.  -- Center of a curve or surface (Geom.) (a) A point such that every line drawn through the point and terminated by the curve or surface is bisected at the point. (b) The fixed point of reference in polar coördinates. See Coördinates.  -- Center of curvature of a curve (Geom.), the center of that circle which has at any given point of the curve closer contact with the curve than has any other circle whatever. See Circle.  -- Center of a fleet, the division or column between the van and rear, or between the weather division and the lee.  -- Center of gravity (Mech.), that point of a body about which all its parts can be balanced, or which being supported, the whole body will remain at rest, though acted upon by gravity.  -- Center of gyration (Mech.), that point in a rotating body at which the whole mass might be concentrated (theoretically) without altering the resistance of the intertia of the body to angular acceleration or retardaton.  -- Center of inertia (Mech.), the center of gravity of a body or system of bodies.  -- Center of motion, the point which remains at rest, while all the other parts of a body move round it.  -- Center of oscillation, the point at which, if the whole matter of a suspended body were collected, the time of oscillation would be the same as it is in the actual form and state of the body.  -- Center of percussion, that point in a body moving about a fixed axis at which it may strike an obstacle without communicating a shock to the axis.  -- Center of pressure (Hydros.), that point in a surface pressed by a fluid, at which, if a force equal to the whole pressure and in the same line be applied in a contrary direction, it will balance or counteract the whole pressure of the fluid.  CENTER; CENTRE Cen"ter, Cen"tre v. i. [imp. & p. p. Centered or Centred (; p. pr. & vb. n. Centering or Centring.]  1. To be placed in a center; to be central.  2. To be collected to a point; to be concentrated; to rest on, or gather about, as a center. Where there is no visible truth wherein to center, error is as wide as men's fancies. Dr. H. More. Our hopes must center in ourselves alone. Dryden.  CENTER; CENTRE Cen"ter , Cen"tre, v. t.  1. To place or fix in the center or on a central point. Milton.  2. To collect to a point; to concentrate. Thy joys are centered all in me alome. Prior.  3. (Mech.)  To form a recess or indentation for the reception of a center.  CENTERBIT; CENTREBIT Cen"ter*bit`, Cen"tre*bit`, n.  An instrument turning on a center, for boring holes. See Bit, n., 3.  CENTERBOARD; CENTREBOARD Cen"ter*board`, Cen"tre*board,, n. (Naut.)  A movable or sliding keel formed of a broad board or slab of wood or metal which may be raised into a water-tight case amidships, when in shallow water, or may be lowered to increase the area of lateral resistance and prevent leeway when the vessel is beating to windward. It is used in vessels of all sizes along the coast of the United States  CENTERFIRE CARTRIDGE Cen"ter*fire` car"tridge.  See under Cartridge. 

CENTERING:  Same as Center, n., 6. [Written also centring.]  CENTERPIECE; CENTREPIECE Cen"ter*piece`, Cen"tre*piece`, n.  An ornament to be placed in the center, as of a table, ceiling, atc.; a central article or figure. 

CENTESIMAL:  Hundredth.  -- n.  A hundredth part. The neglect of a few centesimals. Arbuthnot. 

CENTESIMATION:  The infliction of the death penalty upon one person in every hundred, as in cases of mutiny. 

CENTESIMO:  A copper coin of Italy and Spain equivalent to a centime. 

CENTESM:  Hundredth. 

CENTIARE:  See centare. 

CENTICIPITOUS:  Hundred-headed. 

CENTIFIDOUS:  Divided into a hundred parts. 

CENTIFOLIOUS:  Having a hundred leaves. 

CENTIGRADE:  Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundred divisions or equal parts. Spesifically: of or pertaining the centigrade thermometer; as, 10° centigrade (or 10° C.). Centigrade thermometer, a thermometer having the zero or 0 at the point indicating the freezing state of water, and the distance between that and the point indicating the boiling state of water divided into one hundred degrees. It is called also the Celsius thermometer, from Anders Celsius, the originator of this scale.  CENTIGRAM; CENTIGRAMME Cen"ti*gram, Cen"ti*gramme, n. Etym: [F. centigramme; centi- (L. centum) + gramme. See Gram.]  The hundredth part of a gram; a weight equal to .15432 of a grain. See Gram.  CENTILITER; CENTILITRE Cen"ti*li`ter, Cen"ti*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. centilitre; centi (L. centum) + litre. See Liter.]  The hundredth part of a liter; a measure of volume or capacity equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of a cubic inch, or one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce. 

CENTILOQUY:  A work divided into a hundred parts. [R.] Burton. 

CENTIME:  The hundredth part of a franc; a small French copper coin and money of account.  CENTIMETER; CENTIMETRE Cen"ti*me`ter, Cen"ti*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. centimètre; centi- (L. centum) + mètre. See Meter.]  The hundredth part of a meter; a measure of length equal to rather more than thirty-nine hundredths (0.3937) of an inch. See Meter. 

CENTINEL:  Sentinel. [Obs.] Sackville. 

CENTINODY:  A weed with a sterm of many joints (Illecebrum verticillatum); also, the Polygonum aviculare or knotgrass. 

CENTIPED:  A species of the Myriapoda; esp. the large, flattened, venomous kinds of the order Chilopoda, found in tropical climates. they are many-jointed, and have a great number of feet. [Written also centipede ( 

CENTISTERE:  The hundredth part of a stere, equal to .353 cubic feet. 

CENTNER:  A weight divisible first into a hundred parts, and then into smaller parts.  Note: The metallurgists use a weight divided into a hundred equal parts, each one pound; the whole they call a centner: the pound is divided into thirty-two parts, or half ounces; the half ounce into two quarters; and each of these into two drams. But the assayers use different weights. With them a centner is one dram, to which the other parts are proportioned.  2. The commercial hundredweight in several of the continental countries, varying in different places from 100 to about 112 pounds. 

CENTO:  A literary or a musical composition formed by selections from different authors disposed in a new order. 

CENTONISM:  The composition of a cento; the act or practice of composing a cento or centos. 

CENTRAL:  Relating to the center; situated in or near the center or middle; containing the center; of or pertaining to the parts near the center; equidistant or equally accessible from certain points. Central force (Math.), a force acting upon a body towards or away from a fixed or movable center.  -- Center sun (Astron.), a name given to a hypothetical body about which Mädler supposed the solar system together with all the stars in the Milky Way, to be revolving. A point near Alcyone in the Pleiades was supposed to possess characteristics of the position of such a body.  CENTRAL; CENTRALE Cen"tral, Cen*tra"le, n. Etym: [NL. centrale, fr. L. centralis.] (Anat.)  The central, or one of the central, bones of the carpus or or tarsus. In the tarsus of man it is represented by the navicular. 

CENTRALITY:  The state of being central; tendency towards a center. Meantime there is a great centrality, a centripetence equal to the centrifugence. R. W. Emerson. 

CENTRALIZATION:  The act or process of centralizing, or the state of being centralized; the act or process of combining or reducing several parts into a whole; as, the centralization of power in the general government; the centralization of commerce in a city. 

CENTRALIZE:  To draw or bring to a center point; to gather into or about a center; to bring into one system, or under one control. [To] centralize the power of government. Bancroft. 

CENTRALLY:  In a central manner or situation. 

CENTRE:  See Center.  CENTRIC; CENTRICAL Cen"tric, Cen"tric*al, a.  Placed in the center or middle; central. At York or some other centrical place. Sir W. Scott. -- Cen"tric*al*ly, adv.  -- Cen"tric*al*ness, n. 

CENTRICITY:  The state or quality of being centric; centricalness. 

CENTRIFUGAL:  A centrifugal machine.  CENTRIFUGAL FILTER Cen*trif"u*gal fil"ter.  A filter, as for sugar, in which a cylinder with a porous or foraminous periphery is rapidly rotated so as to drive off liquid by centrifugal action. 

CENTRIFUGENCE:  The property or quality of being centrifugal. R. W. Emerson. 

CENTRING:  See Centring. 

CENTRIPETENCE:  Centripetency. 

CENTRIPETENCY:  Tendency toward the center. 

CENTRISCOID:  Allied to, or resembling, the genus Centriscus, of which the bellows fish is an example. 

CENTROBARIC:  Relating to the center of gravity, or to the process of finding it. Centrobaric method (Math.), a process invented for the purpose of measuring the area or the volume generated by the rotation of a line or surface about a fixed axis, depending upon the principle that every figure formed by the revolution of a line or surface about such an axis has for measure the product of the line or surface by the length of the path of its center of gravity; -- sometimes called theorem of Pappus, also, incorrectly, Guldinus's properties. See Barycentric calculus, under Calculus. 

CENTRODE:  In two figures having relative motion, one of the two curves which are the loci of the instantaneous center. 

CENTROID:  The center of mass, inertia, or gravity of a body or system of bodies. 

CENTROLECITHAL:  Having the food yolk placed at the center of the ovum, segmentation being either regular or unequal. Balfour. 

CENTROLINEAD:  An instrument for drawing lines through a point, or lines converging to a center. 

CENTROLINEAL:  Converging to a center; -- applied to lines drawn so as to meet in a point or center. 

CENTROSOME:  A peculiar rounded body lying near the nucleus of a cell. It is regarded as the dynamic element by means of which the machinery of cell division is organized. 

CENTROSPHERE:  The nucleus or central part of the earth, forming most of its mass; -- disting. from lithosphere, hydrosphere, etc.  2.  (Biol.) The central mass of an aster from which the rays extend and within which the centrosome lies when present; the attraction sphere. The name has been used both as excluding and including the centrosome, and also to designate a modified mass of protoplasm about a centrosome whether aster rays are developed or not. 

CENTROSTALTIC:  A term applied to the action of nerve force in the spinal center. Marshall Hall. 

CENTRUM:  The body, or axis, of a vertebra. See Vertebra. 

CENTRY:  See Sentry. [Obs.] Gray. 

CENTUMVIR:  One of a court of about one hundred judges chosen to try civil suits. Under the empire the court was increased to 180, and met usually in four sections. 

CENTUMVIRAL:  Of or pertaining to the centumviri, or to a centumvir. 

CENTUMVIRATE:  The office of a centumvir, or of the centumviri. 

CENTUPLE:  Hundredfold. 

CENTUPLE:  To increase a hundredfold. 

CENTUPLICATE:  To make a hundredfold; to repeat a hundred times. [R.] Howell. 

CENTURIAL:  Of or pertaining to a century; as, a centurial sermon. [R.] 

CENTURIATE:  Pertaining to, or divided into, centuries or hundreds. [R.] Holland. 

CENTURIATE:  To divide into hundreds. [Obs.]  CENTURIATOR; CENTURIST Cen*tu"ri*a`tor, Cen"tu*rist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. centuriateur.]  An historian who distinguishes time by centuries, esp. one of those who wrote the "Magdeburg Centuries." See under Century. [R.] 

CENTURION:  A military officer who commanded a minor division of the Roman army; a captain of a century. A centurion of the hand called the Italian band. Acts x. 1. 

CEORL:  A freeman of the lowest class; one not a thane or of the servile classes; a churl. 

CEPACEOUS:  Of the nature of an onion, as in odor; alliaceous. 

CEPEVOROUS:  Feeding upon onions. [R.] Sterling. 

CEPHALAD:  Forwards; towards the head or anterior extremity of the body; opposed to caudad.  CEPHALALGIA; CEPHALALGY Ceph`a*lal"gi*a, Ceph"a*lal`gy, n. Etym: [L. cephalalgia, Gr. céphalalgie.] (Med.)  Pain in the head; headache. 

CEPHALALGIC:  Relating to, or affected with, headache.  -- n.  A remedy for the headache. 

CEPHALANTHIUM:  Same as Anthodium. 

CEPHALASPIS:  A genus of fossil ganoid fishes found in the old red sandstone or Devonian formation. The head is large, and protected by a broad shield-shaped helmet prolonged behind into two lateral points. 

CEPHALATA:  A large division of Mollusca, including all except the bivalves; -- so called because the head is distinctly developed. See Illustration in Appendix. 

CEPHALATE:  Having a head. 

CEPHALIC:  Of or pertaining to the head. See the Note under Anterior. Cephalic index (Anat.), the ratio of the breadth of the cranium to the length, which is taken as the standard, and equal to 100; the breadth index.  -- Cephalic vein, a large vein running from the back of the head alond the arm; -- so named because the ancients used to open it for disorders of the head. Dunglison. 

CEPHALIC:  A medicine for headache, or other disorder in the head. 

CEPHALISM:  Form or development of the skull; as, the races of man differ greatly in cephalism. 

CEPHALITIS:  Same as Phrenitis. 

CEPHALIZATION:  Domination of the head in animal life as expressed in the physical structure; localization of important organs or parts in or near the head, in animal development. Dana.  CEPHALO; CEPHALO- Ceph"a*lo. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form denoting the head, of the head, connected with the head; as, cephalosome, cephalopod. 

CEPHALOCERCAL:  Relating to the long axis of the body. 

CEPHALOID:  Shaped like the head. Craing. 

CEPHALOLOGY:  The science which treats of the head. 

CEPHALOMERE:  One of the somites (arthromeres) which make up the head of arthropods. Packard. 

CEPHALOMETER:  An instrument measuring the dimensions of the head of a fetus during delivery. 

CEPHALOMETRY:  The measurement of the heads of living persons. -- Ceph`a*lo*met"ric (#),a. 

CEPHALON:  The head. 

CEPHALOPHORA:  The cephalata.  CEPHALOPOD; CEPHALOPODE Ceph"a*lo*pod, Ceph"a*lo*pode, n. (Zoöl.)  One of the Cephalopoda. 

CEPHALOPODA:  The highest class of Mollusca.  Note: They have, around the front of the head, a group of elongated muscular arms, which are usually furnished with prehensile suckers or hooks, The head is highly developed, with large, well organized eyes and ears, and usually with a cartilaginous brain case. The higher forms, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopi, swim rapidly by ejecting a jet of water from the tubular siphon beneath the head. They have a pair of powerful horny jaws shaped like a parrot's beak, and a bag of inklike fluid which they can eject from the siphon, thus clouding the water in order to escape from their enemies. They are divided into two orders, the Dibranchiata, having two gills and eight or ten sucker-bearing arms, and the Tetrabranchiata, with four gills and numerous arms without suckers. The latter are all extinct except the Nautilus. See Octopus, Squid, Nautilus.  CEPHALOPODIC; CEPHALOPODOUS Ceph`a*lo*pod"ic, Ceph`a*lop"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)  Belonging to, or resembling, the cephalopods. 

CEPHALOPTERA:  One of the generic names of the gigantic ray (Manta birostris), known as devilfish and sea devil. It is common on the coasts of South Carolina, Florida, and farther south. Some of them grow to enormous size, becoming twenty feet of more across the body, and weighing more than a ton. 

CEPHALOSOME:  The anterior region or head of insects and other arthropods. Packard. 

CEPHALOSTYLE:  The anterior end of the notochord and its bony sheath in the base of cartilaginous crania. 

CEPHALOTHORAX:  The anterior portion of any one of the Arachnida and higher Crustacea, consisting of the united head and thorax. 

CEPHALOTOME:  An instrument for cutting into the fetal head, to facilitate delivery. 

CEPHALOTOMY:  Craniotomy; -- usually applied to bisection of the fetal head with a saw. 

CEPHALOTRIBE:  An obstetrical instrument for performing cephalotripsy. 

CEPHALOTRIPSY:  The act or operation of crushing the head of a fetus in the womb in order to effect delivery. 

CEPHALOTROCHA:  A kind of annelid larva with a circle of cilia around the head. 

CEPHALOUS:  Having a head; -- applied chiefly to the Cephalata, a division of mollusks. 

CEPHEUS:  (Astron.) A northern constellation near the pole. Its head, which is in the Milky Way, is marked by a triangle formed by three stars of the fourth magnitude. See Cassiopeia. 

CERACEOUS:  Having the texture and color of new wax; like wax; waxy. 

CERAGO:  Beebread. 

CERAMIC:  Of or pertaining to pottery; relating to the art of making earthenware; as, ceramic products; ceramic ornaments for ceilings. 

CERAMICS:  Work formed of clay in whole or in part, and baked; as, vases, urns, etc. Knight. 

CERARGYRITE:  Native silver chloride, a mineral of a white to pale yellow or gray color, darkening on exposure to the light. It may be cut by a knife, like lead or horn (hence called horn silver). 

CERASIN:  A white amorphous substance, the insoluble part of cherry gum; -- called also meta-arabinic acid.  2. (Chem.)  A gummy mucilaginous substance; -- called also bassorin, tragacanthin, etc. 

CERASTES:  A genus of poisonous African serpents, with a horny scale over each eye; the horned viper. 

CERATE:  An unctuous preparation for external application, of a consistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster, so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat, but does not melt when applied to the skin.  Note: Cerate consists essentially of wax (for which resin or spermaceti is sometimes substituted) mixed with oil, lard, and various medicinal ingredients. The cerate (formerly called simple cerate) of the United States Pharmacopoeia is a mixture of three parts of white wax and seven parts of lard. 

CERATED:  Covered with wax. 

CERATINE:  Sophistical. 

CERATOBRANCHIA:  A group of nudibranchiate Mollusca having on the back papilliform or branched organs serving as gills. 

CERATOBRANCHIAL:  Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epibranchial in a branchial arch.  -- n.  A ceratobranchial bone, or cartilage. 

CERATODUS:  A genus of ganoid fishes, of the order Dipnoi, first known as Mesozoic fossil fishes; but recently two living species have been discovered in Australian rivers. They have lungs so well developed that they can leave the water and breathe in air. In Australia they are called salmon and baramunda. See Dipnoi, and Archipterygium. 

CERATOHYAL:  Pertaining to the bone, or carts, large, below the epihyal in the hyoid arch.  -- n.  A ceratohyal bone, or cartilage, which, in man, forms one of the small horns of the hyoid. 

CERATOSAURUS:  A carnivorous American Jurassic dinosaur allied to the European Megalosaurus. The animal was nearly twenty feet in length, and the skull bears a bony horn core on the united nasal bones. See Illustration in Appendix. 

CERATOSPONGIAE:  An order of sponges in which the skeleton consists of horny fibers. It includes all the commercial sponges. 

CERAUNICS:  That branch of physics which treats of heat and electricity. R. Park. 

CERAUNOSCOPE:  An instrument or apparatus employed in the ancient mysteries to imitate thunder and lightning. T. Moore. 

CERBEREAN:  Of or pertaining to, or resembling, Cerberus. [Written also Cerberian.] With wide Cerberean mouth. Milton. 

CERBERUS:  A monster, in the shape, of a three-headed dog, guarding the entrance into the infernal regions, Hence: Any vigilant custodian or guardian, esp. if surly.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of East Indian serpents, allied to the pythons; the bokadam. 

CERCAL:  Of or pertaining to the tail. 

CERCARIA:  The larval form of a trematode worm having the shape of a tadpole, with its body terminated by a tail-like appendage. 

CERCARIAN:  Of, like, or pertaining to, the Cercariæ.  -- n.  One of the Cercariæ. 

CERCOPOD:  One of the jointed antenniform appendage of the posterior somites of cartain insects. Packard. 

CERCUS:  See Cercopod. 

CERE:  The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey, parrots, and some other birds. See Beak. 

CERE:  To wax; to cover or close with wax. Wiseman. 

CEREAL:  Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for their edible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.), or to their seeds or grain. 

CEREAL:  Any grass cultivated for its edible grain, or the grain itself; -- usually in the plural. 

CEREALIA:  Public festivals in honor of Ceres.  2. The cereals. Crabb. 

CEREALIN:  A nitrogenous substance closely resembling diastase, obtained from bran, and possessing the power of converting starch into dextrin, sugar, and lactic acid. Watts. 

CEREBEL:  The cerebellum. Derham.  CEREBELLAR; CEREBELLOUS Cer`e*bel"lar, Cer`e*bel"lous, a. (Anat.)  Pertaining to the cerebellum. 

CEREBELLUM:  The large lobe of the hind brain in front of and above the medulla; the little brain. It controls combined muscular action. See Brain. 

CEREBRAL:  Of or pertaining to the cerebrum. Cerebral apoplexy. See under Apoplexy. 

CEREBRAL:  One of a class of lingual consonants in the East Indian languages. See Lingual, n.  Note: Prof. W. D. Whitney calls these letters linguals, and this is their usual designation in the United States. 

CEREBRALISM:  The doctrine or theory that psychical phenomena are functions or products of the brain only. 

CEREBRALIST:  One who accepts cerebralism. 

CEREBRATE:  To exhibit mental activity; to have the brain in action. 

CEREBRATION:  Action of the brain, whether conscious or unconscious. 

CEREBRIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the brain. Cerebric acid (Physiol. Chem.), a name formerly sometimes given to cerebrin. 

CEREBRICITY:  Brain power. [R.] 

CEREBRIFORM:  Like the brain in form or substance. 

CEREBRIFUGAL:  Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the brain to the spinal cord, and so transfer cerebral impulses (centrifugal impressions) outwards. 

CEREBRIN:  A nonphosphorized, nitrogenous substance, obtained from brain and nerve tissue by extraction with boiling alcohol. It is uncertain whether it exists as such in nerve tissue, or is a product of the decomposition of some more complex substance. 

CEREBRIPETAL:  Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the spinal cord to the brain and so transfer sensations (centripetal impressions) from the exterior inwards. 

CEREBRITIS:  Inflammation of the cerebrum. 

CEREBROID:  Resembling, or analogous to, the cerebrum or brain. 

CEREBROLOGY:  The science which treats of the cerebrum or brain. 

CEREBROPATHY:  A hypochondriacal condition verging upon insanity, occurring in those whose brains have been unduly taxed; -- called also brain fag. 

CEREBROSCOPY:  Examination of the brain for the diagnosis of diseas; esp., the act or process of diagnosticating the condition of the brain by examination of the interior of the eye (as with an ophthalmoscope). Buck. 

CEREBROSE:  A sugarlike body obtained by the decomposition of the nitrogenous non-phosphorized principles of the brain.  CEREBRO-SPINAL Cer`e*bro-spi"nal, a. Etym: [Cerebrum + spinal.] (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to the central nervous system consisting of the brain and spinal cord. Cerebro-spinal fluid (Physiol.), a serous fluid secreted by the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord.  -- Cerebro-spinal meningitis, Cerebro-spinal fever (Med.), a dangerous epidemic, and endemic, febrile disease, characterized by inflammation of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, giving rise to severe headaches, tenderness of the back of the neck, paralysis of the ocular muscles, etc. It is sometimes marked by a cutaneous eruption, when it is often called spotted fever. It is not contagious. 

CEREBRUM:  The anterior, and in man the larger, division of the brain; the seat of the reasoning faculties and the will. See Brain. 

CERECLOTH:  A cloth smeared with melted wax, or with some gummy or glutinous matter. Linen, besmeared with gums, in manner of cerecloth. Bacon. 

CEREMONIALISM:  Adherence to external rites; fondness for ceremony. 

CEREMONIALLY:  According to rites and ceremonies; as, a person ceremonially unclean. 

CEREMONIALNESS:  Quality of being ceremonial. 

CEREMONIOUSLY:  In a ceremonious way. 

CEREMONIOUSNESS:  The quality, or practice, of being ceremonious. 

CEREOUS:  Waxen; like wax. [Obs.] Gayton. 

CERES:  The daughter of Saturn and Ops or Rhea, the goddess of corn and tillage.  2. (Actron.)  The first discovered asteroid. 

CERESIN:  A white wax, made by bleaching and purifying ozocerite, and used as a substitute for beeswax. 

CEREUS:  A genus of plants of the Cactus family. They are natives of America, from California to Chili.  Note: Although several species flower in the night, the name Night- blooming cereus is specially applied to the Cereus grandiflorus, which is cultivated for its beautiful, shortlived flowers. The Cereus giganteus, whose columnar trunk is sometimes sixty feet in height, is a striking feature of the scenery of New Mexico, Texas, etc. 

CEREVIS:  A small visorless cap, worn by members of German student corps. It is made in the corps colors, and usually bears the insignia of the corps. 

CERIA:  Cerium oxide, CeO2, a white infusible substance constituting about one per cent of the material of the common incandescent mantle. 

CERIAL:  Same as Cerial. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CERIFEROUS:  Producing wax. 

CERIN:  A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork; sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble in alcohol. Watts.  2. (Min.)  A variety of the mineral allanite. 

CERINTHIAN:  One of an ancient religious sect, so called fron Cerinthus, a Jew, who attempted to unite the doctrines of Christ with the opinions of the Jews and Gnostics. Hook. 

CERIPH:  One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross strokes at the top and bottom of letters. [Spelt also seriph.] Savage. 

CERISE:  Cherry-colored; a light bright red; --- applied to textile fabrics, especially silk. 

CERITE:  A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiïdæ; -- so called from its hornlike form. 

CERITE:  A mineral of a brownish of cherry-red color, commonly massive. It is a hydrous silicate of cerium and allied metals. 

CERIUM:  A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite, allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce. Atomic weight 141.5. It resembles iron in color and luster, but is soft, and both malleable and ductile. It tarnishes readily in the air. 

CERNUOUS:  Inclining or nodding downward; pendulous; drooping; -- said of a bud, flower, fruit, or the capsule of a moss. 

CERO:  A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genus Scomberomorus. Two species are found in the West Indies and less commonly on the Atlantic coast of the United States, -- the common cero (Scomberomorus caballa), called also kingfish, and spotted, or king, cero (S. regalis). 

CEROGRAPH:  A writing on wax. Knight.  CEROGRAPHIC; CEROGRAPHICAL Ce`ro*graph"ic, Ce`ro*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to cerography. 

CEROGRAPHIST:  One who practices cerography. 

CEROLITE:  A hydrous silicate of magnesium, allied to serpentine, occurring in waxlike masses of a yellow or greenish color. 

CEROMA:  That part of the baths and gymnasia in which bathers and wrestlers anointed themselves.  3. (Zoöl.)  The cere of birds. 

CEROMANCY:  Divination by dropping melted wax in water. 

CEROON:  A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound with hide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc. 

CEROPLASTIC:  The art of modeling in wax. 

CEROSIN:  A waxy substance obtained from the bark of the sugar cane, and crystallizing in delicate white laminæ. 

CEROTE:  See Cerate. 

CEROTENE:  A white waxy solid obtained from Chinese wax, and by the distillation of cerotin. 

CEROTIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax or Chinese wax; as, cerotic acid or alcohol. 

CEROTIN:  A white crystalline substance, C27H55.OH, obtained from Chinese wax, and regarded as an alcohol of the marsh gas series; -- called also cerotic alcohol, ceryl alcohol. 

CEROTYPE:  A printing process of engraving on a surface of wax spread on a steel plate, for electrotyping. 

CERRIAL:  Of or pertaining to the cerris. Chaplets green of cerrial oak. Dryden. 

CERRIS:  A species of oak (Quercus cerris) native in the Orient and southern Europe; -- called also bitter oak and Turkey oak. 

CERTAIN:  Certainly. [Obs.] Milton. 

CERTAINLY:  Without doubt or question; unquestionably. 

CERTAINNESS:  Certainty. 

CERTAINTY:  Clearness; freedom from ambiguity; lucidity. Of a certainty, certainly. 

CERTES:  Certainly; in truth; verily. [Archaic] Certes it great pity was to see Him his nobility so foul deface. Spenser. 

CERTIFICATION:  The act of certifying. 

CERTIFIER:  One who certifies or assures. 

CERTIORARI:  A writ issuing out of chancery, or a superior court, to call up the records of a inferior court, or remove a cause there depending, in order that the party may have more sure and speedy justice, or that errors and irreguarities may be corrected. It is obtained upon complaint of a party that he has not received justice, or can not have an impartial trial in the inferior court.  Note: A certiorari is the correct process to remove the proceedings of a court in which cases are tried in a manner different from the course of the common law, as of county commissioners. It is also used as an auxiliary process in order to obtain a full return to some other process. Bouvier. 

CERTITUDE:  Freedom from doubt; assurance; certainty. J. H. Newman. 

CERULE:  Blue; cerulean. [Obs.] Dyer. 

CERULEAN:  Sky-colored; blue; azure. Cowper. Blue, blue, as if that sky let fall A flower from its cerulean wall. Bryant. 

CERULEIN:  A fast dyestuff, C20H8O6, made by heating gallein with strong sulphuric acid. It dyes mordanted fabrics green. 

CERULEOUS:  Cerulean. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

CERULESCENT:  Tending to cerulean; light bluish. 

CERULEUM:  A greenish blue pigment prepared in various ways, consisting essentially of cobalt stannate. Unlike other cobalt blues, it does not change color by gaslight. 

CERULIFIC:  Producing a blue or sky color. [R.] 

CERUMEN:  The yellow, waxlike secretion from the glands of the external ear; the earwax. 

CERUMINOUS:  Pertaining to, or secreting, cerumen; as, the ceruminous glands. 

CERUSE:  The native carbonate of lead. 

CERUSED:  Washed with a preparation of white lead; as, cerused face. Beau. & Fl.  CERUSITE; CERUSSITE Ce"ru*site, Ce"rus*site, n. (Min.)  Native lead carbonate; a mineral occurring in colorless, white, or yellowish transparent crystals, with an adamantine, also massive and compact. 

CERVANTITE:  See under Antimony. 

CERVELAT:  An ancient wind instrument, resembling the bassoon in tone. 

CERVICAL:  Of or pertaining to the neck; as, the cervical vertebræ. 

CERVICIDE:  The act of killing deer; deer-slaying. [R.] 

CERVINE:  Of or pertaining to the deer, or to the family Cervidæ. 

CERVIX:  The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of the womb. See Illust. of Bird. 

CERVUS:  A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other allied species.  Note: Formerly all species of deer were included in the genus Cervus. 

CERYL:  A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compounds obtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc.  CESAREAN; CESARIAN Ce*sa"re*an, Ce*sa"ri*an, a.  Same as Cæsarean, Cæsarian. 

CESARISM:  See Cæsarism. 

CESPITINE:  An oil obtained by distillation of peat, and containing various members of the pyridine series. 

CESPITITIOUS:  Same as Cespitious. [R.] Gough. 

CESPITOSE:  Having the form a piece of turf, i. e., many stems from one rootstock or from many entangled rootstocks or roots. [Written also cæspitose.] 

CESPITOUS:  Pertaining to, consisting, of resembling, turf; turfy. A cespitous or turfy plant has many stems from the same root, usually forming a close, thick carpet of matting. Martyn. 

CESS:  To rate; to tax; to assess. Spenser. 

CESS:  To cease; to neglect. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CESSANT:  Inactive; dormant [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

CESSATION:  A ceasing of discontinuance, as of action, whether termporary or final; a stop; as, a cessation of the war. The temporary cessation of the papal iniquities. Motley. The day was yearly observed for a festival by cessation from labor. Sir J. Hayward. Cessation of arms (Mil.), an armistice, or truce, agreed to by the commanders of armies, to give time for a capitulation, or for other purposes.  Syn.  -- Stop; rest; stay; pause; discontinuance; intermission; interval; respite; interruption; recess; remission. 

CESSAVIT:  A writ given by statute to recover lands when the tenant has for two years failed to perform the conditions of his tenure. 

CESSER:  a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, for two years. 

CESSIBLE:  Giving way; yielding. [Obs.] -- Ces`si*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 

CESSION:  The giving up or vacating a benefice by accepting another without a proper dispensation.  5. (Civil Law)  The voluntary surrender of a person's effects to his creditors to avoid imprisonment. 

CESSIONARY:  Having surrendered the effects; as, a cessionary bankrupt. Martin. 

CESSMENT:  An assessment or tax. [Obs.] Johnson. 

CESSOR:  One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service by which he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ of cessavit. See Cessavit. Cowell. 

CESSOR:  An assessor. [Obs.] 

CESSPIPE:  A pipe for carrying off waste water, etc., from a sink or cesspool. Knight. 

CESSPOOL:  A cistern in the course, or the termination, of a drain, to collect sedimentary or superfluous matter; a privy vault; any receptace of filth. [Written also sesspool.] 

CEST:  A woman's girdle; a cestus. [R.] Collins. 

CESTODE:  Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.  -- n.  One of the Cestoidea. 

CESTOID:  Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.  -- n.  One of the Cestoidea. 

CESTOIDEA:  A class of parasitic worms (Platelminthes) of which the tapeworms are the most common examples. The body is flattened, and usually but not always long, and composed of numerous joints or segments, each of which may contain a complete set of male and female reproductive organs. They have neither mouth nor intestine. See Tapeworm. [Written also Cestoda.] 

CESTOLDEAN:  One of the Cestoidea. 

CESTRACIONT:  A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera. The posterior teeth form a pavement of bony plates for crushing shellfish. Most of the species are extinct. The Port Jackson shark and a similar one found in California are living examples. 

CESTRACIONT:  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the genus Cestracion. 

CESTUS:  A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus) which gave the wearer the power of exciting love.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of Ctenophora. The typical species (Cestus Veneris) is remarkable for its brilliant iridescent colors, and its long, girdlelike form. 

CESTUS:  A covering for the hands of boxers, made of leather bands, and often loaded with lead or iron.  CESTUY; CESTUI Ces"tuy or Ces"tui, pron. Etym: [Norm. F.] (Law)  He; the one. Cestuy que trust ( Etym: [norm. F.], a person who has the equitable and beneficial interest in property, the legal interest in which is vested in a trustee. Wharton.  -- Cestuy que use ( Etym: [Norm. F.], a person for whose use land, etc., is granted to another. 

CESURA:  See Cæsura. 

CESURAL:  See Cæsural. 

CETACEA:  An order of marine mammals, including the whales. Like ordinary mammals they breathe by means of lungs, and bring forth living young which they suckle for some time. The anterior limbs are changed to paddles; the tail flukes are horizontal. There are two living suborders: (a) The Mysticete or whalebone whales, having no true teeth after birth, but with a series of plates of whalebone [see Baleen.] hanging down from the upper jaw on each side, thus making a strainer, through which they receive the small animals upon which they feed. (b) The Denticete, including the dolphins and sperm whale, which have teeth. Another suborder (Zeuglodontia) is extinct. The Sirenia were formerly included in the Cetacea, but are now made a separate order. 

CETACEAN:  One of the Cetacea. 

CETACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Cetacea. 

CETE:  One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea. 

CETENE:  An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtained from spermaceti. 

CETERACH:  A species of fern with fronds (Asplenium Ceterach). 

CETEWALE:  Same as Zedoary. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CETIC:  Of or pertaining to a whale. 

CETIN:  A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part of spermaceti. 

CETOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to cetology. 

CETOLOGIST:  One versed in cetology. 

CETOLOGY:  The description or natural history of cetaceous animals. 

CETRARIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the lichen, Iceland moss (Cetaria Islandica). Cetraric acid. See Cetrarin. 

CETRARIN:  A white substance extracted from the lichen, Iceland moss (Cetraria Islandica). It consists of several ingredients, among which is cetraric acid, a white, crystalline, bitter substance. 

CETYL:  A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in a series of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derived from spermaceti. 

CETYLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, spermaceti. Cetylic alcohol (Chem.), a white, waxy, crystalline solid, obtained from spermaceti, and regarded as homologous with ordinary, or ethyl, alcohol; ethal; - - called also cetyl alcohol. 

CEYLANITE:  A dingy blue, or grayish black, variety of spinel. It is also called pleonaste. [Written also ceylonite.] 

CEYLONESE:  Of or pertaining to Ceylon.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or natives of Ceylon.  C.G.S. C.G.S.  An abbreviation for Centimeter, Gram, Second.  -- applied to a system of units much empoyed in physical science, based upon the centimeter as the unit of length, the gram as the unit of weight or mass, and the second as the unit of time.  C. G. S. C. G. S.  An abbreviation for Centimeter, Gram, Second. -- applied to a system of units much employed in physical science, based upon the centimeter as the unit of length, the gram as the unit of weight or mass, and the second as the unit of time.  C. G. T. C. G. T.   An abbreviation for Confédération Générale du Travail (the French syndicalist labor union). 

CHA:  Tea; -- the Chinese (Mandarin) name, used generally in early works of travel, and now for a kind of rolled tea used in Central Asia.  A pot with hot water . . . made with the powder of a certain herb called chaa, which is much esteemed. Tr. J. Van Linschoten's Voyages (1598). 

CHAB:  The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus).  CHABASITE; CABAZITE Chab"a*site, Cab"a*zite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)  A mineral occuring in glassy rhombohedral crystals, varying, in color from white to yellow or red. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Called also chabasie. 

CHABLIS:  A white wine made near Chablis, a town in France.  CHABOUK; CHABUK Cha*bouk", Cha*buk", n. Etym: [Hind. chabuk horsewhip.]  A long whip, such as is used in the East in the infliction of punishment. Balfour. 

CHACE:  See 3d Chase, n., 3. 

CHACE:  To pursue. See Chase v. t. 

CHACHALACA:  The texan guan (Ortalis vetula). [written also chiacalaca.] 

CHACMA:  A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); -- called also ursine baboon.  Note: [See Illust. of Baboon.] 

CHACONNE:  An old Spanish dance in moderate three-four measure, like the Passacaglia, which is slower. Both are used by classical composers as themes for variations. 

CHAD:  See Shad. [Obs.] 

CHAETETES:  A genus of fossil corals, common in the lower Silurian limestones. 

CHAETIFEROUS:  Bearing setæ. 

CHAETODONT:  A marine fish of the family Chætodontidæ. The chætodonts have broad, compressed bodies, and usually bright colors. 

CHAETODONT:  Of or pertaining to the Chætodonts or the family Chætodontidæ. 

CHAETOGNATH:  Of or pertaining to the Chætognatha. 

CHAETOGNATHA:  An order of free-swimming marine worms, of which the genus Sagitta is the type. They have groups of curved spines on each side of the head. 

CHAETOPOD:  Pertaining to the Chætopoda.  -- n.  One of the Chætopoda. 

CHAETOPODA:  A very extensive order of Annelida, characterized by the presence of lateral setæ, or spines, on most or all of the segments. They are divided into two principal groups: Oligochæta, including the earthworms and allied forms, and Polychæta, including most of the marine species. 

CHAETOTAXY:  The arrangement of bristles on an insect. 

CHAFE:  To rub; to come together so as to wear by rubbing; to wear by friction. Made its great boughs chafe together. Longfellow. The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores. Shak.  2. To be worn by rubbing; as, a cable chafes.  3. To have a feeling of vexation; to be vexed; to fret; to be irritated. Spenser. He will chafe at the doctor's marrying my daughter. Shak. 

CHAFER:  A kind of beetle; the cockchafer. The name is also applied to other species; as, the rose chafer. 

CHAFERY:  An open furnace or forge, in which blooms are heated before being wrought into bars.  CHAFEWAX; CHAFFWAX Chafe"wax`, or Chaff"wax`, n. (Eng. Law)  Formerly a chancery officer who fitted wax for sealing writs and other documents. 

CHAFEWEED:  The cudweed (Gnaphalium), used to prevent or cure chafing. 

CHAFF:  The scales or bracts on the receptacle, which subtend each flower in the heads of many Compositæ, as the sunflower. Gray. Chaff cutter, a machine for cutting, up straw, etc., into "chaff" for the use of cattle. 

CHAFF:  To use light, idle lagnguage by way of fun or ridicule; to banter. 

CHAFF:  To make fun of; to turn into ridicule by addressing in ironical or bantering language; to quiz. Morgan saw that his master was chaffing him. Thackeray. A dozen honest fellows . . . chaffed each other about their sweethearts. C. Kingsley. 

CHAFFER:  One who chaffs. 

CHAFFER:  Bargaining; merchandise. [Obs.] Holished. 

CHAFFERER:  One who chaffers; a bargainer. 

CHAFFERN:  A vessel for heating water. [Obs.] Johnson. 

CHAFFERY:  Traffic; bargaining. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CHAFFINCH:  A bird of Europe (Fringilla coelebs), having a variety of very sweet songs, and highly valued as a cage bird; -- called also copper finch. 

CHAFFING:  The use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule; raillery; banter. 

CHAFFLESS:  Without chaff. 

CHAFING:  The act of rubbing, or wearing by friction; making by rubbing. Chafing dish, a dish or vessel for cooking on the table, or for keeping food warm, either by coals, by a lamp, or by hot water; a portable grate for coals.  -- Chafing gear (Naut.), any material used to protect sails, rigging, or the like, at points where they are exposed to friction. 

CHAGREEN:  See Shagreen.  CHAGRES FEVER Cha"gres fe"ver. (Med.)  A form of malarial fever occurring along the Chagres River, Panama. 

CHAGRIN:  Vexation; mortification. I must own that I felt rather vexation and chagrin than hope and satisfaction. Richard Porson. Hear me, and touch Belinda with chagrin. Pope.  Syn.  -- Vexation; mortification; peevishness; fretfulness; disgust; disquiet. Chagrin, Vexation, Mortification. These words agree in the general sense of pain produced by untoward circumstances. Vexation is a feeling of disquietude or irritating uneasiness from numerous causes, such as losses, disappointments, etc. Mortification is a stronger word, and denotes that keen sense of pain which results fron wounded pride or humiliating occurrences. Chagrin is literally the cutting pain produced by the friction of Shagreen leather; in its figurative sense, it varies in meaning, denoting in its lower degrees simply a state of vexation, and its higher degrees the keenest sense of mortification. "Vexation arises chiefly fron our wishes and views being crossed: mortification, from our self-importance being hurt; chagrin, from a mixture of the two." Crabb. 

CHAGRIN:  To excite ill-humor in; to vex; to mortify; as, he was not a little chagrined. 

CHAGRIN:  To be vexed or annoyed. Fielding. 

CHAGRIN:  Chagrined. Dryden. 

CHAIN:  An instrument which consists of links and is used in measuring land.  Note: One commonly in use is Gunter's chain, which consists of one hundred links, each link being seven inches and ninety-two one hundredths in length; making up the total length of rods, or sixty- six, feet; hence, a measure of that length; hence, also, a unit for land measure equal to four rods square, or one tenth of an acre.  5. pl. (Naut.)  Iron links bolted to the side of a vessel to bold the dead-eyes connected with the shrouds; also, the channels.  6. (Weaving)  The warp threads of a web. Knight. Chain belt (Mach.), a belt made of a chain; -- used for transmitting power.  -- Chain boat, a boat fitted up for recovering lost cables, anchors, etc.  -- Chain bolt (a) (Naut.) The bolt at the lower end of the chain plate, which fastens it to the vessel's side. (b) A bolt with a chain attached for drawing it out of position.  -- Chain bond. See Chain timber.  -- Chain bridge, a bridge supported by chain cables; a suspension bridge.  -- Chain cable, a cable made of iron links.  -- Chain coral (Zoöl.), a fossil coral of the genus Halysites, common in the middle and upper Silurian rocks. The tubular corallites are united side by side in groups, looking in an end view like links of a chain. When perfect, the calicles show twelve septa.  -- Chain coupling. (a) A shackle for uniting lengths of chain, or connecting a chain with an object. (b) (Railroad) Supplementary coupling together of cars with a chain.  -- Chain gang, a gang of convicts chained together.  -- Chain hook (Naut.), a hook, used for dragging cables about the deck.  -- Chain mail, flexible, defensive armor of hammered metal links wrought into the form of a garment.  -- Chain molding (Arch.), a form of molding in imitation of a chain, used in the Normal style.  -- Chain pier, a pier suspended by chain.  -- Chain pipe (Naut.), an opening in the deck, lined with iron, through which the cable is passed into the lockers or tiers.  -- Chain plate (Shipbuilding), one of the iron plates or bands, on a vessel's side, to which the standing rigging is fastened.  -- Chain pulley, a pulley with depressions in the periphery of its wheel, or projections from it, made to fit the links of a chain.  -- Chain pumps. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Chain rule (Arith.), a theorem for solving numerical problems by composition of ratios, or compound proportion, by which, when several ratios of equality are given, the consequent of each being the same as the antecedent of the next, the relation between the first antecedent and the last consequent is discovered.  -- Chain shot (Mil.), two cannon balls united by a shot chain, formerly used in naval warfare on account of their destructive effect on a ship's rigging.  -- Chain stitch. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Chain timber. (Arch.) See Bond timber, under Bond.  -- Chain wales. (Naut.) Same as Channels.  -- Chain wheel. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Closed chain, Open chain (Chem.), terms applied to the chemical structure of compounds whose rational formulæ are written respectively in the form of a closed ring (see Benzene nucleus, under Benzene), or in an open extended form.  -- Endless chain, a chain whose ends have been united by a link. 

CHAIN:  To measure with the chain.  5. To protect by drawing a chain across, as a harbor. 

CHAINLESS:  Having no chain; not restrained or fettered. "The chainless mind." Byron. 

CHAINLET:  A small chain. Sir W. Scott.  CHAIN PUMP Chain" pump`.  A pump consisting of an endless chain, running over a drum or wheel by which it is moved, and dipping below the water to be raised. The chain has at intervals disks or lifts which fit the tube through which the ascending part passes and carry the water to the point of discharge.  CHAIN STITCH Chain" stitch`.  1. An ornamental stitch like the links of a chain; -- used in crocheting, sewing, and embroidery.  2. (Machine Sewing)  A stitch in which the looping of the thread or threads forms a chain on the under side of the work; the loop stitch, as distinguished from the lock stitch. See Stitch.  CHAIN TIE Chain tie. (Arch.)  A tie consisting of a series of connected iron bars or rods.  CHAIN WHEEL Chain" wheel`.  1. A chain pulley, or sprocket wheel.  2. An inversion of the chain pump, by which it becomes a motor driven by water. 

CHAINWORK:  Work looped or linked after the manner of a chain; chain stitch work. 

CHAIRMANSHIP:  The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body. 

CHAISE:  a carriage in general. Cowper. 

CHAJA:  The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, or Chauna, chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called also chauna, and faithful kamichi. It is often domesticated and is useful in guarding other poultry. See Kamichi. 

CHAK:  To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid the restraint of the bridle. 

CHALAZA:  The place on an ovule, or seed, where its outer coats cohere with each other and the nucleus.  2. (Biol.)  A spiral band of thickened albuminous substance which exists in the white of the bird's egg, and serves to maintain the yolk in its position; the treadle. 

CHALAZAL:  Of or pertaining to the chalaza. 

CHALAZE:  Same as Chalaza. 

CHALAZIFEROUS:  Having or bearing chalazas. 

CHALAZION:  A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retention of secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands. 

CHALAZOGAMY:  A process of fecundation in which the pollen tube penetrates to the embryosac through the tissue of the chalaza, instead of entering through the micropyle. It was originally discovered by Treub in Casuarina, and has since been found to occur regularly in the families Betulaceæ and Juglandaceæ. Partial chalazogamy is found in Ulmus, the tube here penetrating the nucleus midway between the chalaza and micropyle. --Chal`a*zo*gam"ic (#), a. 

CHALCANTHITE:  Native blue vitriol. See Blue vitriol, under Blue. 

CHALCEDONIC:  Of or pertaining to chalcedony. 

CHALCEDONY:  A cryptocrystalline, translucent variety of quartz, having usually a whitish color, and a luster nearly like wax. [Written also calcedony.]  Note: When chalcedony is variegated with with spots or figures, or arranged in differently colored layers, it is called agate; and if by reason of the thickness, color, and arrangement of the layers it is suitable for being carved into cameos, it is called onyx. Chrysoprase is green chalcedony; carnelian, a flesh red, and sard, a brownish red variety. 

CHALCHIHUITL:  The Mexican name for turquoise. See Turquoise.  CHALCID FLY Chal"cid fly`. Etym: [From Gr. (Zoöl.)  One of a numerous family of hymenopterous insects (Chalcididæ. Many are gallflies, others are parasitic on insects. 

CHALCIDIAN:  One of a tropical family of snakelike lizards (Chalcidæ), having four small or rudimentary legs. 

CHALCOCITE:  Native copper sulphide, called also copper glance, and vitreous copper; a mineral of a black color and metallic luster. [Formerly written chalcosine.]  CHALCOGRAPHER; CHALCOGRAPHIST Chal*cog"ra*pher, Chal*cog"ra*phist, n.  An engraver on copper or brass; hence, an engraver of copper plates for printing upon paper. 

CHALCOGRAPHY:  The act or art of engraving on copper or brass, especially of engraving for printing. 

CHALCOPYRITE:  Copper pyrites, or yellow copper ore; a common ore of opper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur. It occurs massive and in tetragonal crystals of a bright brass yellow color. 

CHALDAIC:  Of or pertaining to Chaldes.  -- n.  The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; Chaldee. 

CHALDAISM:  An idiom or peculiarity in the Chaldee dialect. 

CHALDEAN:  Of or pertaining to Chaldea.  -- n. (a) A native or inhabitant of Chaldea. (b) A learned man, esp. an astrologer; -- so called among the Eastern nations, because astrology and the kindred arts were much cultivated by the Chaldeans. (c) Nestorian. 

CHALDEE:  Of or pertaining to Chaldea.  -- n.  The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; eastern Aramaic, or the Aramaic used in Chaldea. Chaldee Paraphrase, A targum written in Aramaic.  CHALDRICH; CHALDER Chal"drich, Chal"der, n. Etym: [Icel. tjaldr.] (Zoöl.)  A kind of bird; the oyster catcher. 

CHALDRON:  An English dry measure, being, at London, 36 bushels heaped up, or its equivalent weight, and more than twice as much at Newcastle. Now used exlusively for coal and coke.  Note: In the United States the chaldron is ordinarily 2,940 lbs, but at New York it is 2,500 lbs. De Colange. 

CHALICE:  A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. 

CHALICED:  Having a calyx or cup; cupshaped. "Chaliced flowers." Shak. 

CHALK:  A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowish white color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the same composition as common limestone.  2. (Fine Arts)  Finely prepared chalk, used as a drawing implement; also, by extension, a compound, as of clay and black lead, or the like, used in the same manner. See Crayon. Black chalk, a mineral of a bluish color, of a slaty texture, and soiling the fingers when handled; a variety of argillaceous slate.  -- By a long chalk, by a long way; by many degrees. [Slang] Lowell.  -- Chalk drawing (Fine Arts), a drawing made with crayons. See Crayon.  -- Chalk formation. See Cretaceous formation, under Cretaceous.  -- Chalk line, a cord rubbed with chalk, used for making straight lines on boards or other material, as a guide in cutting or in arranging work.  -- Chalk mixture, a preparation of chalk, cinnamon, and sugar in gum water, much used in diarrheal affection, esp. of infants.  -- Chalk period. (Geol.) See Cretaceous period, under Cretaceous.  -- Chalk pit, a pit in which chalk is dug.  -- Drawing chalk. See Crayon, n., 1.  -- French chalk, steatite or soapstone, a soft magnesian mineral.  -- Red chalk, an indurated clayey ocher containing iron, and used by painters and artificers; reddle. 

CHALKCUTTER:  A man who digs chalk. 

CHALKINESS:  The state of being chalky. 

CHALKSTONE:  A chalklike concretion, consisting mainly of urate of sodium, found in and about the small joints, in the external ear, and in other situations, in those affected with gout; a tophus. 

CHALKY:  Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, a chalky cliff; a chalky taste. 

CHALLENGE:  The opening and crying of hounds at first finding the scent of their game.  5. (Law)  An exception to a juror or to a member of a court martial, coupled with a demand that he should be held incompetent to act; the claim of a party that a certain person or persons shall not sit in trial upon him or his cause. Blackstone  6. An exception to a person as not legally qualifed to vote. The challenge must be made when the ballot is offered. [U. S.] Challenge to the array (Law), an exception to the whole panel.  -- Challenge to the favor, the alleging a special cause, the sufficiency of which is to be left to those whose duty and office it is to decide upon it.  -- Challenge to the polls, an exception taken to any one or more of the individual jurors returned.  -- Peremptory challenge, a privilege sometimes allowed to defendants, of challenging a certain number of jurors (fixed by statute in different States) without assigning any cause.  -- Principal challenge, that which the law allows to be sufficient if found to be true. 

CHALLENGE:  To question or demand the countersign from (one who attempts to pass the lines); as, the sentinel challenged us, with "Who comes there"  6. To take exception to; question; as, to challenge the accuracy of a statement or of a quotation.  7. (Law)  To object to or take exception to, as to a juror, or member of a court.  8. To object to the reception of the vote of, as on the ground that the person in not qualifed as a voter. [U. S.] To challenge to the array, favor, polls. See under Challenge, n. 

CHALLENGE:  To assert a right; to claim a place. Where nature doth with merit challenge. Shak. 

CHALLENGEABLE:  That may be challenged. 

CHALLENGER:  One who challenges. 

CHALLIS:  A soft and delicate woolen, or woolen and silk, fabric, for ladies' dresses. [Written also chally.] 

CHALON:  A bed blanket. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHALYBEATE:  Impregnated with salts of iron; having a taste like iron; as, chalybeate springs. 

CHALYBEATE:  Any water, liquid, or medicine, into which iron enters as an ingredient. 

CHALYBEOUS:  Steel blue; of the color of tempered steel. 

CHALYBITE:  Native iron carbonate; -- usually called siderite. 

CHAM:  To chew. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Sir T. More. 

CHAM:  The sovereign prince of Tartary; -- now usually written khan. Shak. 

CHAMADE:  A signal made for a parley by beat of a drum. They beat the chamade, and sent us carte blanche. Addison. 

CHAMAL:  The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora. 

CHAMBER:  Apartments in a lodging house. "A bachelor's life in chambers." Thackeray.  3. A hall, as where a king gives audience, or a deliberative body or assembly meets; as, presence chamber; senate chamber.  4. A legislative or judicial body; an assembly; a society or association; as, the Chamber of Deputies; the Chamber of Commerce.  5. A compartment or cell; an inclosed space or cavity; as, the chamber of a canal lock; the chamber of a furnace; the chamber of the eye.  6. pl. (Law.)  A room or rooms where a lawyer transacts business; a room or rooms where a judge transacts such official business as may be done out of court.  7. A chamber pot. [Colloq.]  8. (Mil.) (a) That part of the bore of a piece of ordnance which holds the charge, esp. when of different diameter from the rest of the bore; -- formerly, in guns, made smaller than the bore, but now larger, esp. in breech-loading guns. (b) A cavity in a mine, usually of a cubical form, to contain the powder. (c) A short piece of ornance or cannon, which stood on its breech, without any carriage, formerly used chiefly for rejoicings and theatrical cannonades. Air chamber. See Air chamber, in the Vocabulary.  -- Chamber of commerce, a board or association to protect the interests of commerce, chosen from among the merchants and traders of a city.  -- Chamber council, a secret council. Shak.  -- Chamber counsel or counselor, a counselor who gives his opinion in private, or at his chambers, but does not advocate causes in court.  -- Chamber fellow, a chamber companion; a roommate; a chum.  -- Chamber hangings, tapestry or hangings for a chamber.  -- Chamber lye, urine. Shak.  -- Chamber music, vocal or instrumental music adapted to performance in a chamber or small apartment or audience room, instead of a theater, concert hall, or chuch.  -- Chamber practice (Law.), the practice of counselors at law, who give their opinions in private, but do not appear in court.  -- To sit at chambers, to do business in chambers, as a judge. 

CHAMBERED:  Having a chamber or chambers; as, a chambered shell; a chambered gun. 

CHAMBERING:  Lewdness. [Obs.] Rom. xiii. 13. 

CHAMBERLAINSHIP:  Office if a chamberlain. 

CHAMBERTIN:  A red wine from Chambertin near Dijon, in Burgundy. 

CHAMBRANLE:  An ornamental bordering or framelike decoration around the sides and top of a door, window, or fireplace. The top piece is called the traverse and the side pieces the ascendants. 

CHAMBRAY:  A gingham woven in plain colors with linen finish. 

CHAMBREL:  Same as Gambrel. 

CHAMECK:  A kind of spider monkey (Ateles chameck), having the thumbs rudimentary and without a nail. 

CHAMELEON:  A lizardlike reptile of the genus Chamæleo, of several species, found in Africa, Asia, and Europe. The skin is covered with fine granmulations; the tail is prehensile, and the body is much compressed laterally, giving it a high back.  Note: Its color changes more or less with the color of the objects about it, or with its temper when disturbed. In a cool, dark place it is nearly white, or grayish; on admitting the light, it changes to brown, bottle-green, or blood red, of various shades, and more or less mottled in arrangment. The American chameleons belong to Anolis and allied genera of the family Iguanidæ. They are more slender in form than the true chameleons, but have the same power of changing their colors. Chameleon mineral (Chem.), the compound called potassium permanganate, a dark violet, crystalline substance, KMnO4, which in formation passes through a peculiar succession of color from green to blue, purple, red, etc. See Potassium permanganate, under Potassium. 

CHAMELEONIZE:  To change into various colors. [R.] 

CHAMFER:  The surface formed by cutting away the arris, or angle, formed by two faces of a piece of timber, stone, etc. 

CHAMFER:  To cut a furrow in, as in a column; to groove; to channel; to flute.  2. To make a chamfer on. 

CHAMFRET:  A small gutter; a furrow; a groove.  2. A chamfer. 

CHAMFRON:  The frontlet, or head armor, of a horse. [Written also champfrain and chamfrain.] 

CHAMISAL:  A California rosaceous shrub (Adenostoma fasciculatum) which often forms an impenetrable chaparral.  2.  A chaparral formed by dense growths of this shrub. 

CHAMLET:  See Camlet. [Obs.] 

CHAMOIS:  A small species of antelope (Rupicapra tragus), living on the loftiest mountain ridges of Europe, as the Alps, Pyrenees, etc. It possesses remarkable agility, and is a favorite object of chase.  2. A soft leather made from the skin of the chamois, or from sheepskin, etc.; -- called also chamois leather, and chammy or shammy leather. See Shammy. 

CHAMOMILE:  See Camomile. 

CHAMP:  To bite or chew impatiently. They began . . . irefully to champ upon the bit. Hooker.  CHAMP; CHAMPE Champ, Champe, n. Etym: [F. champ, L. campus field.] (Arch.)  The field or ground on which carving appears in relief. 

CHAMPAGNE:  A light wine, of several kinds, originally made in the province of Champagne, in France.  Note: Champagne properly includes several kinds not only of sparkling but off still wines; but in America the term is usually restricted to wines which effervesce. 

CHAMPAIGN:  A flat, open country. Fair champaign, with less rivers interveined. Milton. Through Apline vale or champaign wide. Wordsworth. 

CHAMPAIGN:  Flat; open; level. A wide, champaign country, filled with herds. Addison. 

CHAMPER:  One who champs, or bites. 

CHAMPERTOR:  One guilty of champerty; one who purchases a suit, or the right of suing, and carries it on at his own expense, in order to obtain a share of the gain. 

CHAMPERTY:  The prosecution or defense of a suit, whether by furnishing money or personal services, by one who has no legitimate concern therein, in consideration of an agreement that he shall receive, in the event of success, a share of the matter in suit; maintenance with the addition of an agreement to divide the thing in suit. See Maintenance.  Note: By many authorities champerty is defined as an agreement of this nature. From early times the offence of champerty has been forbidden and punishable. 

CHAMPIGNON:  An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris). Fairy ring champignon, the Marasmius oreades, which has a strong flavor but is edible. 

CHAMPIONNESS:  A female champion. Fairfax. 

CHAMPIONSHIP:  State of being champion; leadership; supremancy.  CHAMPLAIN PERIOD Cham*plain" pe"ri*od. (Geol.)  A subdivision of the Quaternary age immediately following the Glacial period; -- so named from beds near Lake Champlain.  Note: The earlier deposits of this period are diluvial in character, as if formed in connection with floods attending the melting of the glaciers, while the later deposits are of finer material in more quiet waters, as the alluvium. 

CHAMPLEVE:  Having the ground engraved or cut out in the parts to be enameled; inlaid in depressions made in the ground; -- said of a kind of enamel work in which depressions made in the surface are filled with enamel pastes, which are afterward fired; also, designating the process  of making such enamel work. --n.  A piece of champlevé enamel; also, the process or art of making such enamel work; champlevé work. 

CHAMSIN:  See Kamsin. 

CHANCE:  Probability.  Note: The mathematical expression, of a chance is the ratio of frequency with which an event happens in the long run. If an event may happen in a ways and may fail in b ways, and each of these a + b ways is equally likely, the chance, or probability, that the event will happen is measured by the fraction a/(a + b), and the chance, or probability, that it will fail is measured by b/(a + b). Chance comer, one who, comes unexpectedly.  -- The last chance, the sole remaining ground of hope.  -- The main chance, the chief opportunity; that upon which reliance is had, esp. self-interest.  -- Theory of chances, Doctrine of chances (Math.), that branch of mathematics which treats of the probability of the occurrence of particular events, as the fall of dice in given positions.  -- To mind one's chances, to take advantage of every circumstance; to seize every opportunity. 

CHANCE:  To happen, come, or arrive, without design or expectation. "Things that chance daily." Robynson (More's Utopia). If a bird's nest chance to be before thee. Deut. xxii. 6. I chanced on this letter. Shak.  Note: Often used impersonally; as, how chances it How chance, thou art returned so soon Shak. 

CHANCE:  Happening by chance; casual. 

CHANCE:  By chance; perchance. Gray. 

CHANCEABLE:  Fortuitous; casual. [Obs.] 

CHANCEABLY:  By chance. [Obs.] 

CHANCEFUL:  Hazardous. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CHANCELLERY:  Chancellorship. [Obs.] Gower. 

CHANCELLOR:  A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in the United States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction.  Note: The chancellor was originally a chief scribe or secretary under the Roman emperors, but afterward was invested with judicial powers, and had superintendence over the other officers of the empire. From the Roman empire this office passed to the church, and every bishop has his chancellor, the principal judge of his consistory. In later times, in most countries of Europe, the chancellor was a high officer of state, keeper of the great seal of the kingdom, and having the supervision of all charters, and like public instruments of the crown, which were authenticated in the most solemn manner. In France a secretary is in some cases called a chancellor. In Scotland, the appellation is given to the foreman of a jury, or assize. In the present German empire, the chancellor is the president of the federal council and the head of the imperial administration. In the United States, the title is given to certain judges of courts of chancery or equity, established by the statutes of separate States. Blackstone. Wharton. Chancellor of a bishop, or of a diocese (R. C. Ch. & ch. of Eng.), a law officer appointed to hold the bishop's court in his diocese, and to assist him in matter of ecclesiastical law.  -- Chancellor of a cathedral, one of the four chief dignitaries of the cathedrals of the old foundation, and an officer whose duties are chiefly educational, with special reference to the cultivation of theology.  -- Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, an officer before whom, or his deputy, the court of the duchy chamber of Lancaster is held. This is a special jurisdiction.  -- Chancellor of a university, the chief officer of a collegiate body. In Oxford, he is elected for life; in Cambridge, for a term of years; and his office is honorary, the chief duties of it devolving on the vice chancellor.  -- Chancellor of the exchequer, a member of the British cabinet upon whom devolves the charge of the public income and expenditure as the highest finance minister of the government.  -- Chancellor of the order of the Garter (or other military orders), an officer who seals the commissions and mandates of the chapter and assembly of the knights, keeps the register of their proceedings, and delivers their acts under the seal of their order.  -- Lord high chancellor of England, the presiding judge in the court of chancery, the highest judicial officer of the crown, and the first lay person of the state after the blood royal. He is created chancellor by the delivery into his custody of the great seal, of which he becomes keeper. He is privy counselor by his office, and prolocutor of the House of Lords by prescription. 

CHANCELLORSHIP:  The office of a chancellor; the time during which one is chancellor.  CHANCE-MEDLEY Chance"-med`ley, n. Etym: [Chance + medley.]  1. (Law)  The kiling of another in self-defense upon a sudden and unpremeditated encounter. See Chaud-Medley.  Note: The term has been sometimes applied to any kind of homicide by misadventure, or to any accidental killing of a person without premeditation or evil intent, but, in strictness, is applicable to such killing as happens in defending one's self against assault. Bouvier.  2. Luck; chance; accident. Milton. Cowper. 

CHANCRE:  A venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion of true syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- called also hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre. Soft chancre. A chancroid. See Chancroid. 

CHANCROID:  A venereal sore, resembling a chancre in its seat and some external characters, but differing from it in being the starting point of a purely local process and never of a systemic disease; -- called also soft chancre. 

CHANCROUS:  Of the nature of a chancre; having chancre. 

CHANDELIER:  A movable parapet, serving to support fascines to cover pioneers. [Obs.] 

CHANDLERLY:  Like a chandler; in a petty way. [Obs.] Milton. 

CHANDLERY:  Commodities sold by a chandler. 

CHANDOO:  An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India for smoking. Balfour. 

CHANDRY:  Chandlery. [Obs.] "Torches from the chandry." B. Jonson. 

CHANFRIN:  The fore part of a horse's head. 

CHANGE:  A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; a building appropriated for mercantile transactions. [Colloq. for Exchange.]  8. A public house; an alehouse. [Scot.] They call an alehouse a change. Burt.  9. (Mus.)  Any order in which a number of bells are struck, other than that of the diatonic scale. Four bells admit twenty-four changes in ringing. Holder. Change of life, the period in the life of a woman when menstruation and the capacity for conception cease, usually occurring between forty-five and fifty years of age.  -- Change ringing, the continual production, without repetition, of changes on bells, See def. 9. above.  -- Change wheel (Mech.), one of a set of wheels of different sizes and number of teeth, that may be changed or substituted one for another in machinery, to produce a different but definite rate of angular velocity in an axis, as in cutting screws, gear, etc.  -- To ring the changes on, to present the same facts or arguments in variety of ways.  Syn.  -- Variety; variation; alteration; mutation; transition; vicissitude; innovation; novelty; transmutation; revolution; reverse. 

CHANGEABILITY:  Changeableness. 

CHANGEABLENESS:  The quality of being changeable; fickleness; inconstancy; mutability. 

CHANGEABLY:  In a changeable manner. 

CHANGEFUL:  Full of change; mutable; inconstant; fickle; uncertain. Pope. His course had been changeful. Motley. -- Change"ful*ly, adv.  -- Change"ful*ness, n.  CHANGE GEAR Change gear. (Mach.)  A gear by means of which the speed of machinery or of a vehicle may be changed while that of the propelling engine or motor remains constant; -- called also change-speed gear.  CHANGE KEY Change key.  A key adapted to open only one of a set of locks; -- distinguished from a master key. 

CHANGELESS:  That can not be changed; constant; as, a changeless purpose.  -- Change"less*ness, n. 

CHANK:  The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of several species of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinella pyrum. Called also chank chell. 

CHANNEL:  A strait, or narrow sea, between two portions of lands; as, the British Channel.  4. That through which anything passes; means of passing, conveying, or transmitting; as, the news was conveyed to us by different channels. The veins are converging channels. Dalton. At best, he is but a channel to convey to the National assembly such matter as may import that body to know. Burke.  5. A gutter; a groove, as in a fluted column.  6. pl. Etym: [Cf. Chain wales.] (Naut.)  Flat ledges of heavy plank bolted edgewise to the outside of a vessel, to increase the spread of the shrouds and carry them clear of the bulwarks. Channel bar, Channel iron (Arch.), an iron bar or beam having a section resembling a flat gutter or channel.  -- Channel bill (Zoöl.), a very large Australian cucko (Scythrops Novæhollandiæ.  -- Channel goose. (Zoöl.) See Gannet. 

CHANSON:  A song. Shak.  CHANSON DE GESTE Chan`son" de geste". [F., prop., song of history.]  Any Old French epic poem having for its subject events or exploits of early French history, real or legendary, and written originally in assonant verse of ten or twelve syllables. The most famous one is the Chanson de Roland.  Langtoft had written in the ordinary measure of the later chansons de geste. Saintsbury. 

CHANSONNETTE:  A little song. These pretty little chansonnettes that he sung. Black. 

CHANT:  To sing or recite after the manner of a chant, or to a tune called a chant. 

CHANT:  To sing, as in reciting a chant. To chant (or chaunt) horses, to sing their praise; to overpraise; to cheat in selling. See Chaunter. Thackeray. 

CHANT:  A short and simple melody, divided into two parts by double bars, to which unmetrical psalms, etc., are sung or recited. It is the most ancient form of choral music.  3. A psalm, etc., arranged for chanting.  4. Twang; manner of speaking; a canting tone. [R.] His strange face, his strange chant. Macaulay. Ambrosian chant, See under Ambrosian. Chant royal Etym: [F.], in old French poetry, a poem containing five strophes of eleven lines each, and a concluding stanza.  -- each of these six parts ending with a common refrain.  -- Gregorian chant. See under Gregorian. 

CHANTANT:  Composed in a melodious and singing style. 

CHANTER:  The hedge sparrow. 

CHANTERELLE:  A name for several species of mushroom, of which one (Cantharellus cibrius) is edible, the others reputed poisonous. 

CHANTEY:  A sailor's song.  May we lift a deep-sea chantey such as seamen use at sea Kipling. 

CHANTICLEER:  A cock, so called from the clearness or loundness of his voice in crowing. 

CHANTING:  Singing, esp. as a chant is sung. Chanting falcon (Zoöl.), an African falcon (Melierax canorus or musicus). The male has the habit, remarkable in a bird of prey, of singing to his mate, while she is incubating. 

CHANTOR:  A chanter. 

CHANTRESS:  A female chanter or singer. Milton. 

CHAOMANCY:  Divination by means of apperances in the air. 

CHAOTIC:  Resembling chaos; confused. 

CHAOTICALLY:  In a chaotic manner. 

CHAP:  To bargain; to buy. [Obs.] 

CHAPARAJOS:  Overalls of sheepskin or leather, usually open at the back, worn, esp. by cowboys, to protect the legs from thorny bushes, as in the chaparral; -- called also chapareras or colloq. chaps. [Sp. Amer.] 

CHAPARERAS:  Same as Chaparajos. [Sp. Amer.] 

CHAPBOOK:  Any small book carried about for sale by chapmen or hawkers. Hence, any small book; a toy book. 

CHAPEAU:  A cap of maintenance. See Maintenance. Chapeau bras ( Etym: [F. chapeau hat + bras arm], a hat so made that it can be compressed and carried under the arm without injury. Such hats were particularly worn on dress occasions by gentlemen in the 18th century. A chapeau bras is now worn in the United States army by general and staff officers. 

CHAPED:  Furnished with a chape or chapes. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHAPEL:  To cause (a ship taken aback in a light breeze) so to turn or make a circuit as to recover, without bracing the yards, the same tack on which she had been sailing. 

CHAPELESS:  Without a chape. 

CHAPELLANY:  A chapel within the jurisdiction of a church; a subordinate ecclesiastical foundation. 

CHAPELRY:  The territorial disrict legally assigned to a chapel. 

CHAPERON:  To attend in public places as a guide and protector; to matronize. Fortunately Lady Bell Finley, whom I had promised to chaperon, sent to excuse herself. Hannah More. 

CHAPERONAGE:  Attendance of a chaperon on a lady in public; protection afforded by a chaperon. 

CHAPFALLEN:  Having the lower chap or jaw drooping, -- an indication of humiliation and dejection; crestfallen; discouraged. See Chopfallen. 

CHAPITER:  A capital [Obs.] See Chapital. Ex. xxxvi. 38.  2. (Old Eng. Law)  A summary in writing of such matters as are to be inquired of or presented before justices in eyre, or justices of assize, or of the peace, in their sessions; -- also called articles. Jacob. 

CHAPLAINCY:  The office, position, or station of a chaplain. Swift. 

CHAPLESS:  Having no lower jaw; hence, fleshless. [R.] "Yellow, chapless skulls." Shak. 

CHAPLET:  A small molding, carved into beads, pearls, olives, etc.  4. (Man.)  A chapelet. See Chapelet, 1.  5. (Founding)  A bent piece of sheet iron, or a pin with thin plates on its ends, for holding a core in place in the mold.  6. A tuft of feathers on a peacock's head. Johnson. 

CHAPLET:  A small chapel or shrine. 

CHAPLET:  To adorn with a chaplet or with flowers. R. Browning. 

CHAPPY:  Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open. 

CHAPS:  The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap. "Open your chaps again." Shak. 

CHAPTREL:  An impost. [Obs.]  CHAR; CHARR Char, Charr, n. Etym: [Ir. cear, Gael. ceara, lit., red, blood- colored, fr. cear blood. So named from its red belly.] (Zoöl.)  One of the several species of fishes of the genus Salvelinus, allied to the spotted trout and salmon, inhabiting deep lakes in mountainous regions in Europe. In the United States, the brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) is sometimes called a char. 

CHAR:  A car; a chariot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHAR:  Work done by the day; a single job, or task; a chore. [Written also chare.] [Eng.] When thou hast done this chare, I give thee leave To play till doomsday. Shak.  CHAR; CHARE Char, Chare, v. t. Etym: [See 3d Char.]  1. To perform; to do; to finish. [Obs.] Nores. Thet char is chared, as the good wife said when she had hanged her husband. Old Proverb.  2. To work or hew, as stone. Oxf. Gloss.  CHAR; CHARE Char, Chare, v. i.  To work by the day, without being a regularly hired servant; to do small jobs. 

CHARA:  A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems and whorled branches. They flourish in wet places.  CHAR-A-BANC Char`-a-banc", n.; pl. Chars-a-banc. Etym: [F.]  A long, light, open vehicle, with benches or seats running lengthwise. 

CHARACT:  A distinctive mark; a character; a letter or sign. [Obs.] See Character. In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms. Shak. 

CHARACTERISM:  A distinction of character; a characteristic. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

CHARACTERISTIC:  Pertaining to, or serving to constitute, the character; showing the character, or distinctive qualities or traits, of a person or thing; peculiar; distinctive. Characteristic clearness of temper. Macaulay. 

CHARACTERISTIC:  The integral part (whether positive or negative) of a logarithm. 

CHARACTERISTICAL:  Characteristic. 

CHARACTERISTICALLY:  In a characteristic manner; in a way that characterizes. 

CHARACTERIZATION:  The act or process of characterizing. 

CHARACTERLESS:  Destitute of any distinguishing quality; without character or force. 

CHARADE:  A verbal or acted enigma based upon a word which has two or more significant syllables or parts, each of which, as well as the word itself, is to be guessed from the descriptions or representations. 

CHARBOCLE:  Carbuncle. [Written also Charboncle.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHARBON:  A small black spot or mark remaining in the cavity of the corner tooth of a horse after the large spot or mark has become obliterated.  2. A very contagious and fatal disease of sheep, horses, and cattle. See Maligmant pustule. 

CHARCOAL:  Finely prepared charcoal in small sticks, used as a drawing implement. Animal charcoal, a fine charcoal prepared by calcining bones in a closed vessel; -- used as a filtering agent in sugar refining, and as an absorbent and disinfectant.  -- Charcoal blacks, the black pigment, consisting of burnt ivory, bone, cock, peach stones, and other substances.  -- Charcoal drawing (Fine Arts), a drawing made with charcoal. See Charcoal, 2. Until within a few years this material has been used almost exclusively for preliminary outline, etc., but at present many finished drawings are made with it.  -- Charcoal point, a carbon pencil prepared for use un an electric light apparatus.  -- Mineral charcoal, a term applied to silky fibrous layers of charcoal, interlaminated in beds of ordinary bituminous coal; -- known to miners as mother of coal. 

CHARE:  A narrow street. [Prov. Eng.] 

CHARE:  A chore; to chore; to do. See Char. 

CHARGE:  To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to add to or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or.  11. To call to account; to challenge. [Obs.] To charge me to an answer. Shak.  12. To bear down upon; to rush upon; to attack. Charged our main battle's front. Shak.  Syn.  -- To intrust; command; exhort; instruct; accuse; impeach; arraign. See Accuse. 

CHARGE:  A soft of plaster or ointment.  16. (Her.)  A bearing. See Bearing, n., 8.  17. Etym: [Cf. Charre.]  Thirty-six pigs of lead, each pig weighing about seventy pounds; -- called also charre.  18. Weight; import; value. Many suchlike "as's" of great charge. Shak. Back charge. See under Back, a.  -- Bursting charge. (a (Mil.) The charge which bursts a shell, etc. (b (Mining) A small quantity of fine powder to secure the ignition of a charge of coarse powder in blasting.  -- Charge and discharge (Equity Practice), the old mode or form of taking an account before a master in chancery.  -- Charge sheet, the paper on which are entered at a police station all arrests and accusations.  -- To sound the charge, to give the signal for an attack.  Syn.  -- Care; custody; trust; management; office; expense; cost; price; assault; attack; onset; injunction; command; order; mandate; instruction; accusation; indictment. 

CHARGEABLENESS:  The quality of being chargeable or expensive. [Obs.] Whitelocke. 

CHARGEABLY:  At great cost; expensively. [Obs.] 

CHARGEANT:  Burdensome; troublesome. [Obs.] Chaucer.  CHARGE D'AFFAIRES Char`gé" d'af`faires", n.; pl. Chargés d'affaires. Etym: [F., "charged with affairs."]  A diplomatic representative, or minister of an inferior grade, accredited by the government of one state to the minister of foreign affairs of another; also, a substitute, ad interim, for an ambassador or minister plenipotentiary. 

CHARGEFUL:  Costly; expensive. [Obs.] The fineness of the gold and chargeful fashion. Shak. 

CHARGEHOUSE:  A schoolhouse. [Obs.] 

CHARGELESS:  Free from, or with little, charge. 

CHARGEOUS:  Burdensome. [Obs.] I was chargeous to no man. Wyclif, (2 Cor. xi. 9). 

CHARGESHIP:  The office of a chargé d'affaires. 

CHARILY:  In a chary manner; carefully; cautiously; frugally. 

CHARINESS:  The quality of being chary. 

CHARIOT:  A two-wheeled car or vehicle for war, racing, state processions, etc. First moved the chariots, after whom the foot. Cowper.  2. A four-wheeled pleasure or state carriage, having one seat. Shak. 

CHARIOT:  To convey in a chariot. Milton. 

CHARIOTEE:  A light, covered, four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two seats. 

CHARIOTEER:  A constellation. See Auriga, and Wagones. 

CHARISM:  A miraculously given power, as of healing, speaking foreign languages without instruction, etc., attributed to some of the early Christians. 

CHARISMATIC:  Of or pertaining to a charism. 

CHARITABLENESS:  The quality of being charitable; the exercise of charity. 

CHARITABLY:  In a charitable manner. 

CHARITY:  Now abideth faith, hope, charity, three; but the greatest of these is charity. 1. Cor. xiii. 13. They, at least, are little to be envied, in whose hearts the great charities . . . lie dead. Ruskin. With malice towards none, with charity for all. Lincoln.  2. Liberality in judging of men and their actions; a disposition which inclines men to put the best construction on the words and actions of others. The highest exercise of charity is charity towards the uncharitable. Buckminster.  3. Liberality to the poor and the suffering, to benevolent institutions, or to worthy causes; generosity. The heathen poet, in commending the charity of Dido to the Trojans, spake like a Christian. Dryden.  4. Whatever is bestowed gratuitously on the needy or suffering for their relief; alms; any act of kindness. She did ill then to refuse her a charity. L'Estrange.  5. A charitable institution, or a gift to create and support such an institution; as, Lady Margaret's charity.  6. pl. (Law)  Eleemosynary appointments [grants or devises] including relief of the poor or friendless, education, religious culture, and public institutions. The charities that soothe, and heal, and bless, Are scattered at the feet of man like flowers. Wordsworth. Sisters of Charity (R. C. Ch.), a sisterhood of religious women engaged in works of mercy, esp. in nursing the sick; -- a popular designation. There are various orders of the Sisters of Charity.  Syn.  -- Love; benevolence; good will; affection; tenderness; beneficence; liberality; almsgiving. 

CHARIVARI:  A mock serenade of discordant noises, made with kettles, tin horns, etc., designed to annoy and insult.  Note: It was at first performed before the house of any person of advanced age who married a second time. 

CHARK:  Charcoal; a cinder. [Obs.] DeFoe. 

CHARK:  To burn to a coal; to char. [Obs.] 

CHARLATAN:  One who prates much in his own favor, and makes unwarrantable pretensions; a quack; an impostor; an empiric; a mountebank.  CHARLATANIC; CHARLATANICAL Char`la*tan"ic, Char`la*tan"ic*al, a.  Of or like a charlatan; making undue pretension; empirical; pretentious; quackish.  -- Char`la*tan"ic*al*ly, adv. 

CHARLATANISM:  Charlatanry. 

CHARLATANRY:  Undue pretensions to skill; quackery; wheedling; empiricism.  CHARLES'S WAIN Charles's Wain. Etym: [Charles + wain; cf. AS. Carles w (for wægn), Sw. karlvagnen, Dan. karlsvogn. See Churl, and Wain.] (Astron.)  The group of seven stars, commonly called the Dipper, in the constellation Ursa Major, or Great Bear. See Ursa major, under Ursa.  Note: The name is sometimes also applied to the Constellation. 

CHARLOCK:  A cruciferous plant (Brassica sinapistrum) with yellow flowers; wild mustard. It is troublesome in grain fields. Called also chardock, chardlock, chedlock, and kedlock. Jointed charlock, White charlock, a troublesome weed (Raphanus Raphanistrum) with straw- colored, whitish, or purplish flowers, and jointed pods: wild radish. 

CHARLOTTE:  A kind of pie or pudding made by lining a dish with slices of bread, and filling it with bread soaked in milk, and baked. Charlotte Russe (, or Charlotte à la russe Etym: [F., lit., Russian charlotte] (Cookery), a dish composed of custard or whipped cream, inclosed in sponge cake. 

CHARMEL:  A fruitful field. Libanus shall be turned into charmel, and charmel shall be esteemed as a forest. Isa. xxix. 17 (Douay version). 

CHARMERESS:  An enchantress. Chaucer. 

CHARMFUL:  Abounding with charms. "His charmful lyre." Cowley. 

CHARMING:  Pleasing the mind or senses in a high degree; delighting; fascinating; attractive. How charming is divine philosophy. Milton.  Syn. - Enchanting; bewitching; captivating; enrapturing; alluring; fascinating; delightful; pleasurable; graceful; lovely; amiable; pleasing; winning.  -- Charm"ing*ly, adv.  -- Charm"ing*ness, n. 

CHARMLESS:  Destitute of charms. Swift.  CHARNECO; CHARNICO Char"ne*co, Char"ni*co, n.  A sort of sweet wine. [Obs.] Shak. 

CHARNEL:  Containing the bodies of the dead. "Charnel vaults." Milton. Charnel house, a tomb, vault, cemetery, or other place where the bones of the dead are deposited; originally, a place for the bones thrown up when digging new graves in old burial grounds. 

CHARNEL:  A charnel house; a grave; a cemetery. In their proud charnel of Thermopylæ. Byron. 

CHARON:  The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry the souls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions. Shak. 

CHARPIE:  Straight threads obtained by unraveling old linen cloth; -- used for surgical dressings. 

CHARQUI:  Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the wind and sun. Darwin. 

CHARR:  See 1st Char. 

CHARRAS:  The gum resin of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). Same as Churrus. Balfour. 

CHARRE:  See Charge, n., 17. 

CHARRY:  Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities. 

CHART:  To lay down in a chart; to map; to delineate; as, to chart a coast. 

CHARTACEOUS:  Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery. 

CHARTE:  The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy, as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814. 

CHARTER:  The letting or hiring a vessel by special contract, or the contract or instrument whereby a vessel is hired or let; as, a ship is offered for sale or charter. See Charter party, below. Charter land (O. Eng. Law), land held by charter, or in socage; bookland.  -- Charter member, one of the original members of a society or corporation, esp. one named in a charter, or taking part in the first proceedings under it.  -- Charter party Etym: [F. chartre partie, or charte partie, a divided charter; from the practice of cutting the instrument of contract in two, and giving one part to each of the contractors] (Com.), a mercantile lease of a vessel; a specific contract by which the owners of a vessel let the entire vessel, or some principal part of the vessel, to another person, to be used by the latter in transportation for his own account, either under their charge or his.  -- People's Charter (Eng. Hist.), the document which embodied the demands made by the Chartists, so called, upon the English government in 1838. 

CHARTERER:  One who charters; esp. one who hires a ship for a voyage. 

CHARTERHOUSE:  A well known public school and charitable foundation in the building once used as a Carthusian monastery (Chartreuse) in London. 

CHARTERIST:  Same as Chartist. 

CHARTISM:  The principles of a political party in England (1838-48), which contended for universal suffrage, the vote by ballot, annual parliaments, equal electoral districts, and other radical reforms, as set forth in a document called the People's Charter. 

CHARTIST:  A supporter or partisan of chartism. [Eng.] 

CHARTLESS:  Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc. 

CHARTOMANCY:  Divination by written paper or by cards. 

CHARTOMETER:  An instrument for measuring charts or maps. 

CHARTREUX:  A Carthusian. 

CHARTULARY:  See Cartulary. 

CHARWOMAN:  A woman hired for odd work or for single days. 

CHARY:  Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift; saving; frugal. His rising reputation made him more chary of his fame. Jeffrey. 

CHARYBDIS:  A dangerous whirlpool on the coast of Sicily opposite Scylla on the Italian coast. It is personified as a female monster. See Scylla. 

CHASABLE:  Capable of being chased; fit for hunting. Gower. 

CHASE:  To give chase; to hunt; as, to chase around after a doctor. [Colloq.] 

CHASE:  A division of the floor of a gallery, marked by a figure or otherwise; the spot where a ball falls, and between which and the dedans the adversary must drive his ball in order to gain a point. Chase gun (Naut.), a cannon placed at the bow or stern of an armed vessel, and used when pursuing an enemy, or in defending the vessel when pursued.  -- Chase port (Naut.), a porthole from which a chase gun is fired.  -- Stern chase (Naut.), a chase in which the pursuing vessel follows directly in the wake of the vessel pursued. 

CHASE:  The part of a cannon from the reënforce or the trunnions to the swell of the muzzle. See Cannon.  3. A groove, or channel, as in the face of a wall; a trench, as for the reception of drain tile.  4. (Shipbuilding)  A kind of joint by which an overlap joint is changed to a flush joint, by means of a gradually deepening rabbet, as at the ends of clinker-built boats. 

CHASER:  Same as Chase gun, esp. in terms bow chaser and stern chaser. See under Bow, Stern. 

CHASER:  A tool with several points, used for cutting or finishing screw threads, either external or internal, on work revolving in a lathe. 

CHASIBLE:  See Chasuble. 

CHASING:  The art of ornamenting metal by means of chasing tools; also, a piece of ornamental work produced in this way. 

CHASMED:  Having gaps or a chasm. [R.] 

CHASMY:  Of or pertaining to a chasm; abounding in chasms. Carlyle. They cross the chasmy torrent's foam-lit bed. Wordsworth. 

CHASSE:  A movement in dancing, as across or to the right or left. 

CHASSE:  To make the movement called chassé; as, all chassé; chassé to the right or left.  CHASSE-CAFE Chasse`-ca`fé", n. [F., fr. chasser to chase + café coffee.]  See Chasse, n., above. 

CHASSELAS:  A white grape, esteemed for the table.  CHASSE-MAREE Chasse`-ma`rée", n. [F., fr. chasser to chase + marée tide.] (Naut.)  A French coasting lugger. 

CHASSEPOT:  A kind of breechloading, center-fire rifle, or improved needle gun. 

CHASSEUR:  One of a body of light troops, cavalry or infantry, trained for rapid movements.  2. An attendant upon persons of rank or wealth, wearing a plume and sword. The great chasseur who had announced her arrival. W. Irving. 

CHASSIS:  A traversing base frame, or movable railway, along which the carriage of a barbette or casemate gum moves backward and forward. [See Gun carriage.] 

CHAST:  to chasten. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHASTELY:  In a chaste manner; with purity. 

CHASTENED:  Corrected; disciplined; refined; purified; toned down. Sir. W. Scott. Of such a finished chastened purity. Tennyson. 

CHASTENER:  One who chastens. 

CHASTENESS:  Freedom from all that is meretricious, gaundy, or affected; as, chasteness of design. 

CHASTISABLE:  Capable or deserving of chastisement; punishable. Sherwood. 

CHASTISEMENT:  The act of chastising; pain inflicted for punishment and correction; discipline; punishment. Shall I so much dishonor my fair stars, On equal terms to give him chastesement! Shak. I have borne chastisement; I will not offend any more. Job xxxiv. 31. 

CHASTISER:  One who chastises; a punisher; a corrector. Jer. Taylor. The chastiser of the rich. Burke. 

CHASTITY:  Chasteness. 

CHASUBLE:  The outer vestment worn by the priest in saying Mass, consisting, in the Roman Catholic Church, of a broad, flat, back piece, and a narrower front piece, the two connected over the shoulders only. The back has usually a large cross, the front an upright bar or pillar, designed to be emblematical of Christ's sufferings. In the Greek Church the chasuble is a large round mantle. [Written also chasible, and chesible.] 

CHAT:  To talk in a light and familiar manner; to converse without form or ceremony; to gossip. Shak. To chat a while on their adventures. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To talk; chatter; gossip; converse. 

CHAT:  To talk of. [Obs.] 

CHAT:  A bird of the genus Icteria, allied to the warblers, in America. The best known species are the yelow-breasted chat (I. viridis), and the long chat (I. longicauda). In Europe the name is given to several birds of the family Saxicolidæ, as the stonechat, and whinchat. Bush chat. (Zoöl.) See under Bush. 

CHAT:  Small stones with ore. Chat potatoes, small potatoes, such as are given to swine. [Local.] 

CHATELAINE:  An ornamental hook, or brooch worn by a lady at her waist, and having a short chain or chains attached for a watch, keys, trinkets, etc. Also used adjectively; as, a chatelaine chain. 

CHATELET:  A little castle. 

CHATELLANY:  Same as Castellany. 

CHATI:  A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis). 

CHATOYANT:  Having a changeable, varying luster, or color, like that of a changeable silk, or oa a cat's eye in the dark. 

CHATOYANT:  A hard stone, as the cat's-eye, which presents on a polished surface, and in the interior, an undulating or wary light. 

CHATOYMENT:  Changeableness of color, as in a mineral; play of colors. Cleaceland. 

CHATTEL:  Any item of movable or immovable property except the freehold, or the things which are parcel of it. It is a more extensive term than goods or effects.  Note: Chattels are personal or real: personal are such as are movable, as goods, plate, money; real are such rights in land as are less than a freehold, as leases, mortgages, growing corn, etc. Chattel mortgage (Law), a mortgage on personal property, as distinguished from one on real property. 

CHATTELISM:  The act or condition of holding chattels; the state of being a chattel. 

CHATTER:  To utter rapidly, idly, or indistinctly. Begin his witless note apace to chatter. Spenser. 

CHATTERATION:  The act or habit of chattering. [Colloq.] 

CHATTERER:  A bird of the family Ampelidæ -- so called from its monotonous note. The Bohemion chatterer (Ampelis garrulus) inhabits the arctic regions of both continents. In America the cedar bird is a more common species. See Bohemian chatterer, and Cedar bird. 

CHATTERING:  The act or habit of talking idly or rapidly, or of making inarticulate sounds; the sounds so made; noise made by the collision of the teeth; chatter.  CHATTER MARK Chat"ter mark`.  (a) (Mach.) One of the fine undulations or ripples which are formed on the surface of work by a cutting tool which chatters.  (b) (Geol.) A short crack on a rock surface planed smooth by a glacier. 

CHATTINESS:  The quality of being chatty, or of talking easily and pleasantly. 

CHATTY:  Given to light, familiar talk; talkative. Lady M. W. Montagu. 

CHATTY:  A porous earthen pot used in India for cooling water, etc. 

CHATWOOD:  Little sticks; twigs for burning; fuel. Johnson.  CHAUD-MEDLEY Chaud"-med`ley, n. Etym: [F. chaude mêlée; chaud hot + mêler (Formerly sometimes spelt medler) to mingle.] (Law)  The killing of a person in an affray, in the heat of blood, and while under the influence of passion, thus distinguished from chance- medley or killing in self-defense, or in a casual affray. Burrill. 

CHAUDRON:  See Chawdron. [Obs.] 

CHAUFFER:  A table stove or small furnace, usually a cylindrical box of sheet iron, with a grate at the bottem, and an open top. 

CHAUFFEUR:  Brigands in bands, who, about 1793, pillaged, burned, and killed in parts of France; -- so called because they used to burn the feet of their victims to extort money.  2.  One who manages the running of an automobile; esp., the paid operator of a motor vehicle. 

CHAUFFEUSE:  A woman chauffeur. 

CHAULDRON:  See Chawdron. [Obs.] 

CHAUN:  A gap. [Obs.] Colgrave. 

CHAUN:  To open; to yawn. [Obs.] O, chaun thy breast. Marston. 

CHAUNT:  See Chant. 

CHAUNTERIE:  See Chantry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHAUS:  a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus). 

CHAUSSES:  The garment for the legs and feet and for the body below the waist, worn in Europe throughout the Middle Ages; applied also to the armor for the same parts, when fixible, as of chain mail. 

CHAUSSURE:  A foot covering of any kind.  CHAUTAUQUA SYSTEM OF EDUCATION Chau*tau"qua sys"tem of education.  The system of home study established in connection with the summer schools assembled at Chautauqua, N. Y., by the Methodist Episcopal bishop, J. H. Vincent. 

CHAUVINISM:  Blind and absurd devotion to a fallen leader or an obsolete cause; hence, absurdly vainglorious or exaggerated patriotism.  -- Chau"vin*ist, n.  -- Chau`vin*is"tic (, a.  Note: To have a generous belief in the greatness of one's country is not chauvinism. It is the character of the latter quality to be wildly extravagant, to be fretful and childish and silly, to resent a doubt as an insult, and to offend by its very frankness. Prof. H. Tuttle. 

CHAVENDER:  The chub. Walton. 

CHAW:  The jaw. [Obs.] Spenser. Chaw bacon, a rustic; a bumpkin; a lout. (Law) -- Chaw tooth, a grinder. (Law) 

CHAWDRON:  Entrails. [Obs.] [Written also chaudron, chauldron.] Shak.  CHAY ROOT Chay" root`. Etym: [Tamil shaya.]  The root of the Oldenlandia umbellata, native in India, which yieds a durable red dyestuff. [Written also choy root.]  CHAZY EPOCH Cha*zy" ep"och. (Geol.)  An epoch at the close of the Canadian period of the American Lower Silurian system; -- so named from a township in Clinton Co., New York. See the Diagram under Geology. 

CHEAP:  A bargain; a purchase; cheapness. [Obs.] The sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap at the dearest chandler's in Europe. Shak. 

CHEAP:  Cheaply. Milton. 

CHEAP:  To buy; to bargain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHEAPEN:  To beat down the price of; to lessen the value of; to depreciate. Pope. My proffered love has cheapened me. Dryden. 

CHEAPENER:  One who cheapens.  CHEAP-JACK; CHEAP-JOHN Cheap"-jack`, Cheap"-john`, n.  A seller of low-priced or second goods; a hawker. 

CHEAPLY:  At a small price; at a low value; in a common or inferior manner. 

CHEAPNESS:  Lowness in price, considering the usual price, or real value. 

CHEAR:  See Cheer. 

CHEAT:  A troublesome grass, growing as a weed in grain fields; -- called also chess. See Chess.  4. (Law)  The obtaining of property from another by an intentional active distortion of the truth.  Note: When cheats are effected by deceitful or illegal symbols or tokens which may affect the public at large and against which common prudence could not have guarded, they are indictable at common law. Wharton.  Syn.  -- Deception; imposture; fraud; delusion; artifice; trick; swindle; deceit; guile; finesse; stratagem. 

CHEAT:  To practice fraud or trickery; as, to cheat at cards. 

CHEAT:  Wheat, or bread made from wheat. [Obs.] Drayton. Their purest cheat, Thrice bolted, kneaded, and subdued in paste. Chapman. 

CHEATABLE:  Capable of being cheated. 

CHEATABLENESS:  Capability of being cheated. 

CHEBACCO:  A narrow-sterned boat formerly much used in the Newfoundland fisheries; -- called also pinkstern and chebec. Bartlett. 

CHEBEC:  See Chebacco. 

CHEBEC:  A small American bird (Empidonax minimus); the least flycatcher. 

CHECK:  A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such a menace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it were any other piece, expose it to immediate capture. A king so menaced is said to be in check, and must be made safe at the next move.  2. A condition of interrupted or impeded progress; arrest; stop; delay; as, to hold an enemy in check. Which gave a remarkable check to the first progress of Christianity. Addison. No check, no stay, this streamlet fears. Wordsworth.  3. Whatever arrests progress, or limits action; an obstacle, guard, restraint, or rebuff. Useful check upon the administration of government. Washington. A man whom no check could abash. Macaulay.  4. A mark, certificate, or token, by which, errors may be prevented, or a thing or person may be identified; as, checks placed against items in an account; a check given for baggage; a return check on a railroad.  5. A written order directing a bank or banker to pay money as therein stated. See Bank check, below.  6. A woven or painted design in squares resembling the patten of a checkerboard; one of the squares of such a design; also, cloth having such a figure.  7. (Falconry)  The forsaking by a hawk of its proper game to follow other birds.  8. Small chick or crack. Bank check, a written order on a banker or broker to pay money in his keeping belonging to the signer.  -- Check book, a book containing blank forms for checks upon a bank.  -- Check hook, a hook on the saddle of a harness, over which a checkrein is looped.  -- Check list, a list or catalogue by which things may be verified, or on which they may be checked.  -- Check nut (Mech.), a secondary nut, screwing down upon the primary nut to secure it. Knight.  -- Check valve (Mech.), a valve in the feed pipe of a boiler to prevent the return of the feed water.  -- To take check, to take offense. [Obs.] Dryden.  Syn.  -- Hindrance; setback; interruption; obstruction; reprimand; censure; rebuke; reproof; repulse; rebuff; tally; counterfoil; counterbalance; ticket; draft. 

CHECK:  To make a move which puts an adversary's piece, esp. his king, in check; to put in check.  2. To put a sudden restraint upon; to stop temporarily; to hinder; to repress; to curb. So many clogs to check and retard the headlong course of violence and oppression. Burke.  3. To verify, to guard, to make secure, by means of a mark, token, or other check; to distinguish by a check; to put a mark against (an item) after comparing with an original or a counterpart in order to secure accuracy; as, to check an account; to check baggage.  4. To chide, rebuke, or reprove. The good king, his master, will check him for it. Shak.  5. (Naut.)  To slack or ease off, as a brace which is too stiffly extended.  6. To make checks or chinks in; to cause to crack; as, the sun checks timber.  Syn.  -- To restrain; curb; bridle; repress; control; hinder; impede; obstruct; interrupt; tally; rebuke; reprove; rebuff. 

CHECK:  To make a stop; to pause; -- with at. The mind, once jaded by an attempt above its power, either is disabled for the future, or else checks at any vigorous undertaking ever after. Locke.  2. To clash or interfere. [R.] Bacon.  3. To act as a curb or restraint. It [his presence] checks too strong upon me. Dryden.  4. To crack or gape open, as wood in drying; or to crack in small checks, as varnish, paint, etc.  5. (Falconry)  To turn, when in pursuit of proper game, and fly after other birds. And like the haggard, check at every feather That comes before his eye. Shak. 

CHECK:  Checkered; designed in checks. 

CHECKER:  One who checks. 

CHECKERBERRY:  A spicy plant and its bright red berry; the wintergreen (Gaultheria procumbens). Also incorrectly applied to the partridge berry (Mitchella repens). 

CHECKERBOARD:  A board with sixty-four squares of alternate color, used for playing checkers or draughts. 

CHECKERS:  A game, called also daughts, played on a checkerboard by two persons, each having twelve men (counters or checkers) which are moved diagonally. The game is ended when either of the players has lost all his men, or can not move them. 

CHECKLESS:  That can not be checked or restrained. 

CHECKMATE:  To check (an adversary's king) in such a manner that escape in impossible; to defeat (an adversary) by putting his king in check from which there is no escape.  2. To defeat completely; to terminate; to thwart. To checkmate and control my just demands. Ford. 

CHECKROLL:  A list of servants in a household; -- called also chequer roll. 

CHECKSTRING:  A cord by which a person in a carriage or horse car may signal to the driver. 

CHECKWORK:  Anything made so as to form alternate squares lke those of a checkerboard. 

CHECKY:  Divided into small alternating squares of two tinctures; -- said of the field or of an armorial bearing. [Written also checquy, cheguy.] 

CHEDDAR:  Of or pertaining to, or made at, Cheddar, in England; as, Cheddar cheese. 

CHEEK:  Those pieces of a machine, or of any timber, or stone work, which form corresponding sides, or which are similar and in pair; as, the cheeks (jaws) of a vise; the cheeks of a gun carriage, etc.  4. pl.  The branches of a bridle bit. Knight.  5. (Founding)  A section of a flask, so made that it can be moved laterally, to permit the removal of the pattern from the mold; the middle part of a flask.  6. Cool confidence; assurance; impudence. [Slang] Cheek of beef. See Illust. of Beef.  -- Cheek bone (Anat.) the bone of the side of the fase; esp., the malar bone.  -- Cheek by jowl, side by side; very intimate.  -- Cheek pouch (Zoöl.), a sacklike dilation of the cheeks of certain monkeys and rodents, used for holding food.  -- Cheeks of a block, the two sides of the shell of a tackle block.  -- Cheeks of a mast, the projection on each side of a mast, upon which the trestletrees rest.  -- Cheek tooth (Anat.), a hinder or molar tooth.  -- Butment cheek. See under Butment. 

CHEEK:  To be impudent or saucy to. [Slang.] 

CHEEKED:  Having a cheek; -- used in composition. "Rose-cheeked Adonis." Shak. 

CHEEKY:  a Brazen-faced; impudent; bold. [Slang.] 

CHEEP:  To chirp, as a young bird. 

CHEEP:  To give expression to in a chirping tone. Cheep and twitter twenty million loves. Tennyson. 

CHEEP:  A chirp, peep, or squeak, as of a young bird or mousse. 

CHEERER:  One who cheers; one who, or that which, gladdens. "Thou cheerer of our days." Wotton. "Prime cheerer, light." Thomson. 

CHEERFUL:  Having or showing good spirits or joy; cheering; cheery; contented; happy; joyful; lively; animated; willing. To entertain a cheerful disposition. Shak. The cheerful birds of sundry kind Do chant sweet music. Spenser. A cheerful confidence in the mercy of God. Macaulay. This general applause and cheerful shout. Shak.  Syn.  -- Lively; animated; gay; joyful; lightsome; gleeful; blithe; airy; sprightly; jocund; jolly; joyous; vivacious; buoyant; sunny; happy; hopeful. 

CHEERFULLY:  In a cheerful manner, gladly. 

CHEERFULNESS:  Good spirits; a state of moderate joy or gayety; alacrity. 

CHEERILY:  In a cheery manner. 

CHEERINESS:  The state of being cheery. 

CHEERINGLY:  In a manner to cheer or encourage. 

CHEERISNESS:  Cheerfulness. [Obs.] There is no Christian duty that is not to be seasoned and set off with cheerishness. Milton. 

CHEERLESS:  Without joy, gladness, or comfort.  -- Cheer"less*ly, adv.  -- Cheer"less*ness, n. My cheerful day is turned to cheerles night. Spenser.  Syn.  -- Gloomy; sad; comfortless; dispiriting; dicsconsolate; dejected; melancholy; forlorn. 

CHEERLY:  Gay; cheerful. [Obs.] Shak. 

CHEERLY:  Cheerily. [Archaic] Tennyson. 

CHEERRY:  Cheerful; lively; gay; bright; pleasant; as, a cheery person. His cheery little study, where the sunshine glimmered so pleasantly. Hawthorne. 

CHEESE:  A thin, loosewoven cotton cloth, such as is used in pressing cheese curds. 

CHEESELEP:  A bag in which rennet is kept. 

CHEESEMONGER:  One who deals incheese. B. Jonson. 

CHEESEPARING:  A thin portion of the rind of a cheese.  -- a.  Scrimping; mean; as, cheeseparing economy. 

CHEESINESS:  The quality of being cheesy. 

CHEESY:  Having the nature, qualities, taste, form, consistency, or appearance of cheese. 

CHEETAH:  A species of leopard (Cynælurus jubatus) tamed and used for hunting in India. The woolly cheetah of South Africa is C. laneus. [Written also chetah.] 

CHEF:  Same as Chief.  CHEF-D'OEUVRE Chef`-d'oeuvre", n.; pl. Chefs-d'oeuvre. Etym: [F.]  A masterpiece; a capital work in art, literature, etc.  CHEGOE; CHEGRE Cheg"oe, Cheg"re, n.  See Chigoe. 

CHEILOPLASTY:  The process of forming an artificial tip or part of a lip, by using for the purpose a piece of healthy tissue taken from some neighboring part. 

CHEILOPODA:  See Ch. 

CHEIROPTER:  One of the Cheiroptera. 

CHEIROPTERA:  An order of mammalia, including the bats, having four toes of each of the anterior limbs elongated and connected by a web, so that they can be used like wings in flying. See Bat. 

CHEIROPTEROUS:  Belonging to the Cheiroptera, or Bat family. 

CHEIROPTERYGIUM:  The typical pentadactyloid limb of the higher vertebrates. 

CHEIROSOPHY:  The art of reading character as it is delineated in the hand.  -- Chei*ros"o*phist (, n. 

CHEIROTHERIUM:  A genus of extinct animals, so named from fossil footprints rudely resembling impressions of the human hand, and believed to have been made by labyrinthodont reptiles. See Illustration in Appendix. 

CHEKELATOUN:  See Ciclatoun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHEKMAK:  A turkish fabric of silk and cotton, with gold thread interwoven. 

CHELA:  The pincherlike claw of Crustacea and Arachnida. 

CHELATE:  Same as Cheliferous. 

CHELERYTHRINE:  Am alkaloidal principle obtained from the celandine, and named from the red color of its salts, It is a coloriess crystalline substance, and acts as an acrid narcotic poison. It is identical with sanguinarine. 

CHELICERA:  One of the anterior pair of mouth organs, terminated by a pincherlike claw, in scorpions and allied Arachnida. They are homologous with the falcers of spiders, and probably with the mandibles of insects. 

CHELIDON:  The hollow at the flexure of the arm. 

CHELIDONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the celandine. Cheidonic acid, a weak acid extracted fron the celandine (Chelidonium majus), as a white crystalline substance. 

CHELIDONIUS:  A small stone taken from the gizzard of a young swallow.  -- anciently worn as a medicinal charm. 

CHELIFER:  See Book scorpion, under Book. 

CHELIFEROUS:  Having cheliform claws, like a crab. 

CHELIFORM:  Having a movable joint or finger closing againts a preceding joint or a projecting part of it, so that the whole may be ised for grasping, as the claw of a crab; pincherlike. 

CHELONE:  A genus of hardy perennial flowering plants, of the order Scrophulariaceaæ., natives of North America; -- called also snakehead, turtlehead, shellflower, etc. 

CHELONIA:  An order of reptiles, including the tortoises and turtles, perculiar in having a part of the vertebræ, ribs, and sternum united with the dermal plates so as to form a firm shell. The jaws are covered by a horny beak. See Reptilia; also, Illust. in Appendix. 

CHELONIAN:  Of or pertaining to animals of the tortoise kind.  -- n.  One of the Chelonia. 

CHELURA:  A genus of marine amphipod crustacea, which bore into and sometimes destroy timber. 

CHELY:  A claw. See Chela. [Obs.] 

CHEMIC:  A solution of chloride of line. 

CHEMIC:  Chemical. Blackw. Mag. 

CHEMICAL:  Pertaining to chemistry; characterized or produced by the forces and operations of chemistry; employed in the processes of chemistry; as, chemical changes; chemical comnbinations. Chemical attraction or affinity. See under Attraction. 

CHEMICAL:  A substance used for producing a chemical effect; a reagent. 

CHEMICALLY:  According to chemical principles; by chemical process or operation. 

CHEMIGLYPHIC:  Engraved by a voltaic battary. 

CHEMIGRAPHY:  Any mechanical engraving process depending upon chemical action; specif., a process of zinc etching not employing photography. -- Chem`i*graph"ic (#), a. 

CHEMILOON:  A garment for women, consisting of chemise and drawers united in one. [U. S.] 

CHEMISETTE:  An under-garment, worn by women, usually covering the neck, shoulders, and breast. 

CHEMISM:  The force exerted between the atoms of elementary substance whereby they unite to form chemical compounds; chemical attaction; affinity; -- sometimes used as a general expression for chemical activity or relationship. 

CHEMIST:  A person versed in chemistry or given to chemical investigation; an analyst; a maker or seller of chemicals or drugs. 

CHEMITYPE:  One of a number of processes by which an impression from an engraved plate is obtained in relief, to be used for printing on an ordinary printing press. 

CHEMOLYSIS:  A term sometimes applied to the decomposition of organic substance into more simple bodies, by the use of chemical agents alone. Thudichum. 

CHEMOSIS:  Inflammatory swelling of the conjunctival tissue surrounding the cornea. --Che*mot"ic (#), a. 

CHEMOSMOSIS:  Chemical action taking place through an intervening membrane. 

CHEMOSMOTIC:  Pertaining to, or produced by, chemosmosis. [R.] 

CHEMOSYNTHESIS:  Synthesis of organic compounds by energy derived from chemical changes or reactions. Chemosynthesis of carbohydrates occurs in the nitrite bacteria through the oxidation of ammonia to nitrous acid, and in the nitrate bacteria through the conversion of nitrous into nitric acid. -- Chem`o*syn*thet"ic (#), a.  CHEMOTAXIS; CHEMIOTAXIS Chem`o*tax"is, n. Formerly also Chem`i*o*tax"is. [Chemical + Gr. arrangement, fr.  to arrange.] (Biol.)  The sensitiveness exhibited by small free-swimming organisms, as bacteria, zoöspores of algæ, etc., to chemical substances held in solution. They may be attracted (positive chemotaxis) or repelled (negative chemotaxis). -- Chem`o*tac"tic (#), a. -- Chem`o*tac"tic*al*ly, adv.  CHEMUNG PERIOD Che*mung" pe"ri*od, (Geol.)  A subdivision in the upper part of the Devonian system in America, so named from the Chemung River, along which the rocks are well developed. It includes the Portage and Chemung groups or epochs. See the Diagram under Geology. 

CHENG:  A chinese reed instrument, with tubes, blown by the mouth. 

CHENILLE:  Tufted cord, of silk or worsted, for the trimimg of ladies' dresses, for embroidery and fringes, and for the weft of chenille rugs. 

CHENOMORPHAE:  An order of birds, including the swans, ducks, geese, flamingoes and screamers. 

CHEPSTER:  The European starling. [Local, Eng.] 

CHEQUE:  See Check. 

CHEQUER:  Same as Checker. 

CHEQUING:  A coin. See Sequin. Shak. 

CHEQUY:  Same as Checky. 

CHERIF:  See Cherif. 

CHERISHER:  One who cherishes. The cherisher of my flesh and blood. Shak. 

CHERISHMENT:  Encouragement; comfort. [Obs.] Rich bounty and dear cherishment. Spenser. 

CHERMES:  See Kermes. 

CHEROGRIL:  See Cony. 

CHEROKEES:  An Appalachian tribe of Indians, formerly inhabiting the region about the head waters of the Tennessee River. They are now mostly settled in the Indian Territory, and have become one of the most civilized of the Indian Tribes. 

CHEROOT:  A kind of cigar, originally brought from Mania, in the Philippine Islands; now often made of inferior or adulterated tabacco. 

CHERRY:  A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes the plum) bearing a fleshy drupe with a bony stone; (a) The common garden cherry (Prunus Cerasus), of which several hundred varieties are cultivated for the fruit, some of which are, the begarreau, blackheart, black Tartarian, oxheart, morelle or morello, May-duke (corrupted from Médoc in France). (b) The wild cherry; as, prunus serotina (wild black cherry), valued for its timber; P. Virginiana (choke cherry), an American shrub which bears astringent fruit; P. avium and P. Padus, European trees (bird cherry).  2. The fruit of the cherry tree, a drupe of various colors and flavors.  3. The timber of the cherry tree, esp. of the black cherry, used in cabinetmaking, etc.  4. A peculiar shade of red, like that of a cherry. Barbadoes cherry. See under Barbadoes.  -- Cherry bird (Zoöl.), an American bird; the cedar bird; -- so called from its fondness for cherries.  -- Cherry bounce, cherry brandy and sugar.  -- Cherry brandy, brandy in which cherries have been steeped.  -- Cherry laurel (Bot.), an evergren shrub (Prunus Lauro-cerasus) common in shrubberies, the poisonous leaves of which have a flavor like that of bitter almonds.  -- Cherry pepper (Bot.), a species of Capsicum (C. cerasiforme), with small, scarlet, intensely piquant cherry-shaped fruit.  -- Cherry pit. (a) A child's play, in which cherries are thrown into a hole. Shak. (b) A cherry stone.  -- Cherry rum, rum in which cherries have been steeped.  -- Cherry sucker (Zoöl.), the European spotted flycatcher (Musicapa grisola); -- called also cherry chopper cherry snipe. Cherry tree, a tree that bears cherries.  -- Ground cherry, Winter cherry, See Alkekengi. 

CHERRY:  Like a red cherry in color; ruddy; blooming; as, a cherry lip; cherry cheeks. 

CHERSONESE:  A peninsula; a tract of land nearly surrounded by water, but united to a larger tract by a neck of land or isthmus; as, the Cimbric Chersonese, or Jutland; the Tauric Chersonese, or Crimea. 

CHERT:  An impure, massive, flintlike quartz or hornstone, of a dull color. 

CHERTY:  Like chert; containing chert; flinty. 

CHERUB:  Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic. "The cherubic host." Milton. 

CHERUBIM:  The Hebrew plural of Cherub.. Cf. Seraphim.  Note: Cherubims, in the King James version of the bible, is an incorrect form, made by adding the English plural termination to the Hebrew plural cherubim instead of to the singular cherub. 

CHERUBIN:  Cherubic; angelic. [Obs.] Shak. 

CHERUBIN:  A cherub. [Obs.] Dryden. 

CHERUP:  To make a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to chirp. See Chirrup. "Cheruping birds." Drayton. 

CHERUP:  To excite or urge on by making a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to cherup to. See Chirrup. He cherups brisk ear-erecting steed. Cowper. 

CHERUP:  A short, sharp, cheerful noise; a chirp; a chirrup; as, the cherup of a cricket. 

CHERVIL:  A plant (Anthriscus cerefolium) with pinnately divided aromatic leaves, of which several curled varieties are used in soups and salads. 

CHES:  pret. of Chese. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHESE:  To choose [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHESIBLE:  See Chasuble. 

CHESLIP:  The wood louse. [Prov. Eng.] 

CHESS:  A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with two differently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set. Each player has a king, a queen, two bishops, two knights, two castles or rooks, and eight pawns. 

CHESS:  A species of brome grass (Bromus secalinus) which is a troublesome weed in wheat flelds, and is often erroneously regarded as degenerate or changed wheat; it bears a very slight resemblance to oats, and if reaped and ground up with wheat, so as to be used for food, is said to produce narcotic effects; -- called also cheat and Willard's bromus. [U. S.]  Note: Other species of brome grass are called upright chess, soft chess, etc.  CHESS-APPLE Chess"-ap`ple, n.  The wild service of Europe (Purus torminalis). 

CHESSBOARD:  The board used in the game of chess, having eight rows of alternate light and dark squares, eight in each row. See Checkerboard.  Note: The chessboard and the checkerboard are alike. 

CHESSEL:  The wooden mold in which cheese is pressed. Simmonds. 

CHESSES:  The platforms, consisting of two or more planks doweled together, for the flooring of a temporary military bridge. Wilhelm. A singular, chess, is sometimes used. "Each chess consists of three planks." Farrow. 

CHESSIL:  Gravel or pebbles. Halliwell. 

CHESSMAN:  A piece used in the game of chess. 

CHESSOM:  Mellow earth; mold. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CHESSTREE:  A piece of oak bolted perpendicularly on the side of a vessel, to aid in drawing down and securing the clew of the mainsail.  CHESSY COPPER Ches`sy" cop"per. (Min.)  The mineral azurite, found in fine crystallization at Chessy, near Lyons; called also chessylite. 

CHEST:  A case in which certain goods, as tea, opium, etc., are transported; hence, the quantity which such a case contains.  5. (Mech.)  A tight receptacle or box, usually for holding gas, steam, liguids, etc.; as, the steam chest of an engine; the wind chest of an organ. Bomb chest, See under Bomb.  -- Chest of drawers, a case or movable frame containing drawers. 

CHEST:  Strife; contention; controversy. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 

CHESTED:  Having (such) a chest; -- in composition; as, broad-chested; narrow-chested. 

CHESTERLITE:  A variety of feldspar found in crystals in the county of Chester, Pennsylvania. 

CHESTEYN:  The chestnut tree. [Obs.] Wilwe, elm, plane, assch, box, chesteyn. Chaucer.  CHEST FOUNDER Chest" foun`der. (Far.)  A rheumatic affection of the muscles of the breast and fore legs of a horse, affecting motion and respiration. 

CHESTNUT:  The edible nut of a forest tree (Castanea vesce) of Europe and America. Commonly two or more of the nuts grow in a prickly bur.  2. The tree itself, or its light, coarse-grained timber, used for ornamental work, furniture, etc.  3. A bright brown color, like that of the nut.  4. The horse chestnut (often so used in England).  5. One of the round, or oval, horny plates on the inner sides of the legs of the horse, and allied animals.  6. An old joke or story. [Slang] Chestnut tree, a tree that bears chestnuts. 

CHESTNUT:  Of or pertaining of a chestnut; of a reddish brown color; as, chestnut curls. 

CHETAH:  See Cheetah. 

CHETVERT:  A measure of grain equal to 0.7218 of an imperial quarter, or 5.95 Winchester bushels. [Russia] 

CHEVACHIE:  See Chivachie. [Obs.] 

CHEVAGE:  See Chiefage. [Obs.] 

CHEVAL:  A horse; hence, a support or frame. Cheval glass, a mirror swinging in a frame, and large enough to reflect the full leght figure.  CHEVAL-DE-FRISE Che*val"-de-frise", n.; commonly used in the pl. Chevaux-de-frise. Etym: [F.; cheval horse + Frise Friesland, where it was first used.] (Mil.)  A piece of timber or an iron barrel traversed with iron-pointed spikes or spears, five or six feet long, used to defend a passage, stop a breach, or impede the advance of cavalry, etc. Obstructions of chain, boom, and cheval-de-frise. W. Irving. 

CHEVAUX:  See Cheval. 

CHEVE:  To come to an issue; to turn out; to succed; as, to cheve well in a enterprise. [Prov. or Obs.] Holland. 

CHEVELURE:  A hairlike envelope. The nucleus and chevelure of nebulous star. Sir. W. Hershel. 

CHEVEN:  A river fish; the chub. Sir T. Browne. 

CHEVENTEIN:  A variant of Chieftain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHEVERIL:  Soft leather made of kid skin. Fig.: Used as a symbol of flexibility. [Obs.] Here's wit of cheveril, that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad. Shak. 

CHEVERIL:  Made of cheveril; pliant. [Obs.] A cheveril conscience and a searching wit. Drayton. 

CHEVERLIIZE:  To make as pliable as kid leather. [Obs.] Br. Montagu. 

CHEVET:  The extreme end of the chancel or choir; properly the round or polygonal part. 

CHEVRETTE:  A machine for raising guns or mortar into their carriages. 

CHEVRON:  One of the nine honorable ordinaries, consisting of two broad bands of the width of the bar, issuing, respectively from the dexter and sinister bases of the field and conjoined at its center.  2. (Mil.)  A distinguishing mark, above the elow, on the sleeve of a noncommisioned officer's coat.  3. (Arch.)  A zigzag molding, or group of moldings, common in Norman architecture. Chevron bones (Anat.), The V-shaped subvertebral arches which inclose the caudal blood vessels in some animals. 

CHEVRONED:  Having a chevron; decorated with an ornamental figure of a zigzag from. [A garment] whose nether parts, with their bases, were of watchet cloth of silver, chevroned all over with lace. B. Jonson. 

CHEVRONEL:  A bearing like a chevron, but of only half its width. 

CHEVRONWISE:  In the manner of a chevron; as, the field may be divided chevronwise. 

CHEVROTAIN:  A small ruminant of the family Tragulidæ a allied to the musk deer. It inhabits Africa and the East Indies. See Kanchil. 

CHEVY:  See Chivy, v. t. [Slang, Eng.] One poor fellow was chevied about among the casks in the storm for ten minutes. London Times. 

CHEW:  To perform the action of biting and grinding with the teeth; to ruminate; to meditate. old politicians chew wisdom past. Pope. 

CHEW:  That which is chewed; that which is held in the mouth at once; a cud. [Law] 

CHEWER:  One who chews. 

CHEWET:  A kind of meat pie. [Obs.] 

CHEWINK:  An american bird (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) of the Finch family, so called from its note; -- called also towhee bunting and ground robin. 

CHEYENNES:  A warlike tribe of indians, related to the blackfeet, formerly inhabiting the region of Wyoming, but now mostly on reservations in the Indian Territory. They are noted for their horsemanship. 

CHIAN:  Of or pertaining to Chios, an island in the Ægean Sea. Chian earth, a dense, compact kind of earth, from Chios, used anciently as an astringent and a cosmetic.  -- Chian turpentine, a fragrant, almost transparent turpentine, obtained from the Pistacia Terebinthus. 

CHIAROSCURIST:  A painter who cares for and studies light and shade rather than color.  CHIAROSCURO; CHIARO-OSCURO Chia`ro*scu"ro, Chi*a"ro-os*cu"ro, n. Etym: [It., clear dark.] (a) The arrangement of light and dark parts in a work of art, such as a drawing or painting, whether in monochrome or in color. (b) The art or practice of so arranging the light and dark parts as to produce a harmonious effect. Cf. Clair-obscur.  CHIASM; CHIASMA Chi"asm, Chi*as"ma, n. Etym: [NL. chiasma, fr. Gr. (Anat.)  A commissure; especially, the optic commissure, or crucial union of the optic nerves.  -- Chi*as"mal (, a.. 

CHIASMUS:  An inversion of the order of words or phrases, when repeated or subsequently referred to in a sentence; thus, If e'er to bless thy sons My voice or hands deny, These hands let useful skill forsake, This voice in silence die. Dwight. 

CHIASTOLITE:  A variety of andalusite; -- called also macle. The tesselated apperance of a cross section is due to the symmetrical arrangement of impurities in the crystal. 

CHIBBAL:  See Cibol.  CHIBOUQUE; CHIBOUK Chi*bouque", Chi*bouk", n. Etym: [F. chibouque, fr. Turk.]  A Turkish pipe, usually with a mouthpiece of amber, a stem, four or five feet long and not pliant, of some valuable wood, and a bowl of baked clay. 

CHIC:  Good form; style. [Slang] 

CHICA:  A red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, used by some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin.  2. A fermented liquor or beer made in South American from a decoction of maize.  3. A popular Moorish, Spanish, and South American dance, said to be the original of the fandango, etc. 

CHICALOTE:  A Mexican prickly poppy (Argemone platyceras), which has migrated into California. 

CHICANE:  The use of artful subterfuge, designed to draw away attention from the merits of a case or question; -- specifically applied to legal proceedings; trickery; chicanery; caviling; sophistry. Prior. To shuffle from them by chicane. Burke. To cut short this, I propound it fairly to your own canscience. Berkeley. 

CHICANE:  To use shifts, cavils, or artifices. Burke. 

CHICANER:  One who uses chicanery. Locke. 

CHICANERY:  Mean or unfair artifice to perplex a cause and obscure the truth; stratagem; sharp practice; sophistry. Irritated by perpetual chicanery. Hallam.  Syn.  -- Trickery; sophistry; stratagem. 

CHICCORY:  See Chicory. 

CHICH:  The chick-pea. 

CHICHA:  See Chica. 

CHICHEVACHE:  A fabulous cow of enormous size, whose food was patient wives, and which was therefore in very lean condition.  CHICHLING; CHICHLING VETCH Chich"ling, Chich"ling vetch`, n. Etym: [Chich + -ling.] (Bot.)  A leguminous plant (Lathyrus sativus), with broad flattened seeds which are sometimes used for food. 

CHICK:  To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate. Chalmers. 

CHICKABIDDY:  A chicken; a fowl; also, a trivial term of endearment for a child. 

CHICKADEE:  A small bird, the blackcap titmouse (Parus atricapillus), of North America; -- named from its note. 

CHICKAREE:  The American red squirrel (Sciurus Hudsonius); -- so called from its cry. 

CHICKASAWS:  A trible of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian) allied to the Choctaws. They formerly occupied the northern part of Alabama and Mississippi, but now live in the Indian Territory. 

CHICKEN:  Having a narrow, projecting chest, caused by forward curvature of the vertebral column.  CHICKEN-HEARTED Chick"en-heart`ed, a.  Timid; fearful; cowardly. Bunyan.  CHICKEN POX Chick"en pox". (Med.)  A mild, eruptive disease, generally attacking children only; varicella. 

CHICKLING:  A small chick or chicken.  CHICK-PEA Chick"-pea`, n. Etym: [See Chich.]  1. (Bot.)  A Small leguminous plant (Cicer arietinum) of Asia, Africa, and the sounth of Europe; the chick; the dwarf pea; the gram.  2. Its nutritious seed, used in cookery, and especially, when roasted (parched pulse), as food for travelers in the Eastern deserts. 

CHICKWEED:  The name of several caryophyllaseous weeds, especially Stellaria media, the seeds and flower buds of which are a favorite food of small birds. 

CHICKY:  A chicken; -- used as a diminutive or pet name, especially in calling fowls.  CHICLE; CHICLE GUM Chic"le, n., Chicle gum. [Amer. Sp. chicle.]  A gumlike substance obtained from the bully tree (Mimusops globosa) and sometimes also from the naseberry or sapodilla (Sapota zapotilla). It is more plastic than caoutchouc and more elastic than gutta-percha, as an adulterant of which it is used in England. It is used largely in the United States in making chewing gum. 

CHICORY:  A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with bright blue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; also cultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory; wild endive. See Endive.  2. The root, which is roasted for mixing with coffe. 

CHICORY:  See Chiccory. 

CHIDE:  A continuous noise or murmur. The chide of streams. Thomson. 

CHIDER:  One who chides or quarrels. Shak. 

CHIDERESS:  She who chides. [Obs.] 

CHIDESTER:  A female scold. [Obs.] 

CHIDINGLY:  In a chiding or reproving manner. 

CHIEF:  The upper third part of the field. It is supposed to be composed of the dexter, sinister, and middle chiefs. In chief. (a) At the head; as, a commander in chief. (b) (Eng. Law) From the king, or sovereign; as, tenure in chief, tenure directly from the king.  Syn.  -- Chieftain; captain; general; commander; leader; head; principal; sachem; sagamore; sheik.  -- Chief, chieftain, Commander, Leader. These words fluctuate somewhat in their meaning according to circumstances, but agree in the general idea of rule and authority. The term chief is now more usually applied to one who is a head man, leader, or commander in civil or military affairs, or holds a hereditary or acquired rank in a tribe or clan; as, the chief of police; the chief of an Indian tribe. A chieftain is the chief of a clan or tribe , or a military leader. A commander directs the movements of or has control over a body of men, as a military or naval force. A leader is one whom men follow, as in a political party, a legislative body, a military or scientific expedition, etc., one who takes the command and gives direction in particular enterprises. 

CHIEFAGE:  A tribute by the head; a capitation tax. [Written also chevage and chivage.] [Obs.]  CHIEF BARON Chief" bar"on. (Eng. Law)  The presiding judge of the court of exchequer. 

CHIEFEST:  First or foremost; chief; principal. [Archaic] "Our chiefest courtier." Shak. The chiefest among ten thousand. Canticles v. 10.  CHIEF HARE Chief" hare`. (Zoöl.)  A small rodent (Lagamys princeps) inhabiting the summits of the Rocky Mountains; -- also called crying hare, calling hare, cony, American pika, and little chief hare.  Note: It is not a true hare or rabbit, but belongs to the curious family Lagomyidæ.  CHIEF JUSTICE Chief" jus"tice.  The presiding justice, or principal judge, of a court. Lord Chief Justice of England, The presiding judge of the Queen's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice. The highest judicial officer of the realm is the Lord High Chancellor.  -- Chief Justice of the United States, the presiding judge of the Supreme Court, and Highest judicial officer of the republic.  CHIEF-JUSTICESHIP Chief"-jus"tice*ship, n.  The office of chief justice. Jay selected the chief-justiceship as most in accordance with his tastes. The Century. 

CHIEFLESS:  Without a chief or leader. 

CHIEFRIE:  A small rent paid to the lord paramount. [Obs.] Swift. 

CHIEFTAIN:  A captain, leader, or commander; a chief; the head of a troop, army, or clan.  Syn.  -- Chief; commander; leader; head. See Chief.  CHIEFTAINCY; CHIEFTAINSHIP Chief"tain*cy, Chief"tain*ship, n.  The rank, dignity, or office of a chieftain. 

CHIERTE:  Love; tender regard. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHIEVANCE:  An unlawful bargain; traffic in which money is exported as discount. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CHIEVE:  See Cheve, v. i. [Obs.]  CHIFF-CHAFF Chiff"-chaff (, n. Etym: [So called from its note.] (Zoöl.)  A species of European warbler (Sylvia hippolais); -- called also chip-chap, and pettychaps. 

CHIFFON:  Any merely ornamental adjunct of a woman's dress, as a bunch of ribbon, lace, etc.  2.  A kind of soft gauzy material used for ruches, trimmings, etc.  CHIFFONIER; CHIFFONIERE Chif`fo*nier", fem. Chif`fo-nière", n. Etym: [F. chiffonnier, fem. chiffonnière, fr. chiffon rag, fr. chiffe a rag, fimsy cloth.]  1. One who gathers rags and odds and ends; a ragpicker.  2. A receptacle for rags or shreds.  3. A movable and ornamental closet or piece of furniture with shelves or drawers. G. Eliot. 

CHIGNON:  A knot, boss, or mass of hair, natural or artificial, worn by a woman at the back of the head. A curl that had strayed from her chignon. H. James.  CHIGOE; CHIGRE Chig"oe, Chig"re, n. Etym: [Cf. F. chigue, perh. fr. Catalan chic small, Sp. chico; or of Peruvian origin.] (Zoöl.)  A species of flea (Pulex penetrans), common in the West Indies and South America, which often attacks the feet or any exposed part of the human body, and burrowing beneath the skin produces great irritation. When the female is allowed to remain and breed, troublesome sores result, which are sometimes dangerous. See Jigger. [Written also chegre, chegoe, chique, chigger, jigger.]  Note: The name is sometimes erroneously given to certain mites or ticks having similar habits.  CHIH FU Chih" fu`. [Chin. chih fu, lit., (He who) knows (the) prefecture.]  An official administering a prefecture of China; a prefect, supervising the civil business of the hsiens or districts comprised in his fu (which see).  CHIH HSIEN Chih" hsien`. [Chin. chih hsien, lit., (He who) knows (the) district.]  An official having charge of a hsien, or administrative district, in China; a district magistrate, responsible for good order in his hsien (which see), and having jurisdiction in its civil and criminal cases.  CHIH TAI Chih" tai`. [Chin. chih to govern + t"ai an honorary title.]  A Chinese governor general; a tsung tu (which see). 

CHILBLAIN:  A blain, sore, or inflammatory swelling, produced by exposure of the feet or hands to cold, and attended by itching, pain, and sometimes ulceration. 

CHILBLAIN:  To produce chilblains upon. 

CHILD:  To give birth; to produce young. This queen Genissa childing died. Warner. It chanced within two days they childed both. Latimer. 

CHILDBEARING:  The act of producing or bringing forth children; parturition. Milton. Addison. 

CHILDBED:  The state of a woman bringing forth a child, or being in labor; parturition. 

CHILDBIRTH:  The act of bringing forth a child; travail; labor. Jer. Taylor. 

CHILDCROWING:  The crowing noise made by children affected with spasm of the laryngeal muscles; false croup. 

CHILDE:  A cognomen formerly prefixed to his name by the oldest son, until he succeeded to his ancestral titles, or was knighted; as, Childe Roland. 

CHILDED:  Furnished with a child. [Obs.]  CHILDERMAS DAY Chil"dermas day`. Etym: [AS. cildamæsse-dæg; cild child +dæg day.] (Eccl.)  A day (December 28) observed by mass or festival in commemoration of the children slain by Herod at Bethlehem; -- called also Holy Innocent's Day. 

CHILDING:  Bearing Children; (Fig.) productive; fruitful. [R.] Shak. 

CHILDISHLY:  In the manner of a child; in a trifling way; in a weak or foolish manner. 

CHILDISHNESS:  The state or quality of being childish; simplicity; harmlessness; weakness of intellect. 

CHILDLESSNESS:  The state of being childless. 

CHILDLIKE:  Resembling a child, or that which belongs to children; becoming a child; meek; submissive; dutiful. "Childlike obedience." Hooker.  Note: Childlike, as applied to persons grown up, is commonly in a good sense; as, childlike grace or simplicity; childlike modesty. 

CHILDLY:  Having tthe character of a child; belonging, or appropriate, to a child. Gower. 

CHILDLY:  Like a child. Mrs. Browning. 

CHILDNESS:  The manner characteristic of a child. [Obs.] "Varying childness." Shak. 

CHILDREN:  pl. of Child. 

CHILDSHIP:  The state or relation of being a child.  CHILD STUDY Child study.  A scientific study of children, undertaken for the purpose of discovering the laws of development of the body and the mind from birth to manhood. 

CHILEAN:  Of or pertaining to Chile. 

CHILEAN:  A native or resident of Chile; Chilian.  CHILEAN PINE Chilean pine. (Bot.)  Same as Monkey-puzzle. 

CHILI:  A kind of red pepper. See Capsicum [Written also chilli and chile.] 

CHILIAD:  A thousand; the aggregate of a thousand things; especially, a period of a thousand years. The world, then in the seventh chiliad, will be assumed up unto God. Sir. T. More. 

CHILIAGON:  A plane figure of a thousand angles and sides. Barlow. 

CHILIAHEDRON:  A figure bounded by a thousand plane surfaces [Spelt also chiliaëdron.] 

CHILIAN:  Of or pertaining to Chili.  -- n.  A native or citizen of Chili.  CHILIAN; CHILIARCH Chil"i*an, Chil"i*arch`, n. Etym: [Gr.  The commander or chief of a thousand men. 

CHILIARCHY:  A body consisting of a thousand men. Mitford. 

CHILIAST:  One who believes in the second coming of Christ to reign on earth a thousand years; a milllenarian. 

CHILIASTIC:  Millenarian. "The obstruction offered by the chiliastic errors." J. A. Alexander. 

CHILL:  A sensation of cold with convulsive shaking of the body, pinched face, pale skin, and blue lips, caused by undue cooling of the body or by nervous excitement, or forming the precursor of some constitutional disturbance, as of a fever.  3. A check to enthusiasm or warmth of feeling; discouragement; as, a chill comes over an assemblly.  4. An iron mold or portion of a mold, serving to cool rapidly, and so to harden, the surface of molten iron brought in contact with it. Raymond.  5. The hardened part of a casting, as the tread of a car wheel. Knight. Chill and fever, fever and ague. 

CHILL:  To produce, by sudden cooling, a change of crystallization at or near the surface of, so as to increase the hardness; said of cast iron. 

CHILL:  To become surface-hardened by sudden cooling while solidifying; as, some kinds of cast iron chill to a greater depth than others. 

CHILLED:  Having that cloudiness or dimness of surface that is called "blooming." 

CHILLI:  See Chili. 

CHILLING:  Making chilly or cold; depressing; discouraging; cold; distant; as, a chilling breeze; a chilling manner.  -- Chill"ing"ly, adv. 

CHILLNESS:  Coolness; coldness; a chill. Death is the chillness that precedes the dawn. Longfellow. 

CHILLY:  Moderately cold; cold and raw or damp so as to cause shivering; causing or feeling a disagreeable sensation of cold, or a shivering. 

CHILOGNATH:  A myriapod of the order Chilognatha. 

CHILOGNATHA:  One of the two principal orders of myriapods. They have numerous segments, each bearing two pairs of small, slender legs, which are attached ventrallly, near together. 

CHILOMA:  The tumid upper lip of certain mammals, as of a camel. 

CHILOPOD:  A myriapod of the order Chilopoda. 

CHILOPODA:  One of the orders of myriapods, including the centipeds. They have a single pair of elongated legs attached laterally to each segment; well developed jaws; and a pair of thoracic legs converted into poison fangs. They are insectivorous, very active, and some species grow to the length of a foot.  CHILOSTOMA; CHILOSTOMATA Chi*los"to*ma, Chi*lo*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  An extensive suborder of marine Bryozoa, mostly with calcareous shells. They have a movable lip and a lid to close the aperture of the cells. [Also written Chillostomata.] 

CHILOSTOMATOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Chilostoma.  CHILTERN HUNDREDS Chiltern Hundreds. Etym: [AS. Chiltern the Chiltern, high hills in Buckinghamshire, perh. Fr. ceald cold + ern, ærn, place.]  A tract of crown land in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire, England, to which is attached the nominal office of steward. As members of Parliament cannot resign, when they wish to go out they accept this stewardship, which legally vacates their seats. 

CHIMAERA:  A cartilaginous fish of several species, belonging to the order Holocephali. The teeth are few and large. The head is furnished with appendages, and the tail terminates in a point. 

CHIMAEROID:  Related to, or like, the chimæra. 

CHIMANGO:  A south American carrion buzzard (Milvago chimango). See Caracara. 

CHIMB:  The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3. [Written also hime.] 

CHIMB:  Chime. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHIME:  See Chine, n., 3. 

CHIMER:  One who chimes. 

CHIMERA:  A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having the head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon. "Dire chimeras and enchanted isles." Milton.  2. A vain, foolish, or incongruous fancy, or creature of the imagination; as, the chimera of an author. Burke. 

CHIMERE:  The upper robe worn by a bishop, to which lawn sleeves are usually attached. Hook. 

CHIMERIC:  Chimerical. 

CHIMERICAL:  Merely imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wildly or vainly conceived; having, or capable of having, no existence except in thought; as, chimerical projects.  Syn.  -- Imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wild; unfounded; vain; deceitful; delusive. 

CHIMERICALLY:  Wildy; vainly; fancifully. 

CHIMINAGE:  A toll for passage through a forest. [Obs.] Cowell. 

CHIMNEY:  A body of ore, usually of elongated form, extending downward in a vein. Raymond. Chimney board, a board or screen used to close a fireplace; a fireboard.  -- Chimney cap, a device to improve the draught of a chimney, by presenting an exit aperture always to leeward.  -- Chimney corner, the space between the sides of the fireplace and the fire; hence, the fireside.  -- Chimney hook, a hook for holding pats and kettles over a fire, -- Chimney money, hearth money, a duty formerly paid in England for each chimney.  -- Chimney pot (Arch.), a cylinder of earthenware or sheet metal placed at the top of a chimney which rises above the roof.  -- Chimney swallow. (Zoöl.) (a) An American swift (Chæture pelasgica) which lives in chimneys. (b) In England, the common swallow (Hirundo rustica).  -- Chimney sweep, Chimney sweeper, one who cleans chimneys of soot; esp. a boy who climbs the flue, and brushes off the soot.  CHIMNEY-BREAST Chim"ney-breast`, n. (Arch.)  The horizontal projection of a chimney from the wall in which it is built; -- commonly applied to its projection in the inside of a building only.  CHIMNEY-PIECE Chim"ney-piece`, n. (Arch.)  A decorative construction around the opning of a fireplace. 

CHIMPANZEE:  An african ape (Anthropithecus troglodytes or Troglodytes niger) which approaches more nearly to man, in most respects, than any other ape. When full grown, it is from three to four feet high. 

CHIN:  The exterior or under surface embraced between the branches of the lower jaw bone, in birds. 

CHINALDINE:  See Quinaldine. 

CHINAMAN:  A native of China; a Chinese. 

CHINCAPIN:  See Chinquapin. 

CHINCH:  The bedbug (Cimex lectularius).  2. (Zoöl.)  A bug (Blissus leucopterus), which, in the United States, is very destructive to grass, wheat, and other grains; -- also called chiniz, chinch bug, chink bug. It resembles the bedbug in its disgusting odor. 

CHINCHA:  A south American rodent of the genus Lagotis. 

CHINCHE:  Parsimonious; niggardly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHINCHERIE:  Penuriousness. [Obs.] By cause of his skarsete and chincherie. Caucer. 

CHINCHILLA:  A small rodent (Chinchilla lanigera), of the size of a large squirrel, remarkable for its fine fur, which is very soft and of a pearly gray color. It is a native of Peru and Chili.  2. The fur of the chinchilla.  3. A heavy, longnapped, tufted woolen cloth.  CHINCHONA; CHINCONA Chin*cho"na, Chin*co"na.  See Cinchona.  CHIN COUGH Chin" cough". Etym: [For chink cough; cf. As. cincung long laughter, Scot. kink a violent fit of coughing, akin to MHG. kichen to pant. Cf. Kinknaust, Cough.]  Whooping cough. 

CHINE:  A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chine in the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep. [Prov. Eng.] "The cottage in a chine." J. Ingelow. 

CHINESE:  Of or pertaining to China; peculiar to China. Chinese paper. See India paper, under India.  -- Chinese wax, a snowy-wgite, waxlike substance brought from China. It is the bleached secretion of certain insects of the family Coccidæ especially Coccus Sinensis. 

CHINESE:  The language of China, which is monosyllabic.  Note: Chineses was used as a plural by the contemporaries of Shakespeare and Milton.  CHINESE EXCLUSION ACT Chinese Exclusion Act.  Any of several acts forbidding the immigration of Chinese laborers into the United States, originally from 1882 to 1892 by act of May 6, 1882, then from 1892 to 1902 by act May 5, 1892. By act of April 29, 1902, all existing legislation on the subject was reënacted and continued, and made applicable to the insular possessions of the United States. 

CHINK:  A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length than breadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall. Through one cloudless chink, in a black, stormy sky. Shines out the dewy morning star. Macaulay. 

CHINK:  To crack; to open. 

CHINK:  To cause to make a sharp metallic sound, as coins, small pieces of metal, etc., by bringing them into collision with each other. Pope. 

CHINK:  To make a slight, sharp, metallic sound, as by the collision of little pieces of money, or other small sonorous bodies. Arbuthnot. 

CHINKY:  Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts. Dryden. 

CHINNED:  Having a chin; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, short-chinned. 

CHINOIDINE:  See Quinodine. 

CHINOISERIE:  Chinese conduct, art, decoration, or the like; also, a specimen of Chinese manners, art, decoration, etc. 

CHINOLINE:  See Quinoline. 

CHINONE:  See Quinone. 

CHINOOK:  One of a tribe of North American Indians now living in the state of Washington, noted for the custom of flattening their skulls. Chinooks also called Flathead Indians.  2. A warm westerly wind from the country of the Chinooks, sometimes experienced on the slope of the Rocky Mountains, in Montana and the adjacent territory.  3. A jargon of words from various languages (the largest proportion of which is from that of the Chinooks) generally understood by all the Indian tribes of the northwestern territories of the United States.  CHINOOK STATE Chi*nook" State.  Washington -- a nickname. See Chinook, n. 

CHINQUAPIN:  A branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) of North America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut. Also, its small, sweet, edible nat. [Written also chincapin and chinkapin.] Chinquapin oak, a small shrubby oak (Quercus prinoides) of the Atlantic States, with edible acorns.  -- Western Chinquapin, an evergreen shrub or tree (Castanopes chrysophylla) of the Pacific coast. In California it is a shrub; in Oregon a tree 30 to 125 feet high. 

CHINSE:  To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks) with a chisel , the point of a knife, or a chinsing iron; to calk slightly. Chinsing iron, a light calking iron. 

CHINTZ:  Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in a number of different colors, and often glazed. Swift. 

CHIOPPINE:  Same as Chopine, n. 

CHIP:  To break or fly off in small pieces. 

CHIP:  The triangular piece of wood attached to the log line. Buffalo chips. See under Buffalo.  -- Chip ax, a small ax for chipping timber into shape.  -- Chip bonnet, Chip hat, a bonnet or a hat made of Chip. See Chip, n., 3.  -- A chip off the old block, a child who resembles either of his parents. [Colloq.] Milton.- Potato chips, Saratoga chips, thin slices of raw potato fried crisp. 

CHIPMUNK:  A squirrel-like animal of the genus Tamias, sometimes called the striped squirrel, chipping squirrel, ground squirrel, hackee. The common species of the United States is the Tamias striatus. [Written also chipmonk, chipmuck, and chipmuk.] 

CHIPPENDALE:  Designating furniture designed, or like that designed, by Thomas Chippendale, an English cabinetmaker of the 18th century. Chippendale furniture was generally of simple but graceful outline with delicately carved rococo ornamentation, sculptured either in the solid wood or, in the cheaper specimens, separately and glued on. In the more elaborate pieces three types are recognized: French Chippendale, having much detail, like Louis Quatorze and Louis Quinze; Chinese Chippendale, marked by latticework and pagodalike pediments; and Gothic Chippendale, attempting to adapt medieval details. The forms, as of the cabriole and chairbacks, often resemble Queen Anne. In chairs, the seat is widened at the front, and the back toward the top widened and bent backward, except in Chinese Chippendale, in which the backs are usually rectangular. -- Chip"pen*dal*ism (#), n.  It must be clearly and unmistakably understood, then, that, whenever painted (that is to say, decorated with painted enrichment) or inlaid furniture is described as Chippendale, no matter where or by whom, it is a million chances to one that the description is incorrect. R. D. Benn. 

CHIPPER:  To chirp or chirrup. [ Prov. Eng.] Forby. 

CHIPPER:  Lively; cheerful; talkative. [U. S.] 

CHIPPEWAYS:  A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the northern and weastern shores of Lake Superior; -- called also Objibways. 

CHIPPING:  The chippy.  CHIPPING SQUIRREL Chip"ping squir"rel.  See Chipmunk. 

CHIPPY:  Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless. 

CHIPPY:  A small American sparrow (Spizella socialis), very common near dwelling; -- also called chipping bird and chipping sparrow, from its simple note. 

CHIPS:  A ship's carpenter. [Cant.] 

CHIRAGRA:  Gout in the hand. 

CHIRAGRICAL:  Having the gout in the hand, or subject to that disease. Sir. T. Browne. 

CHIRETTA:  A plant (Agathotes Chirayta) found in Northern India, having medicinal properties to the gentian, and esteemed as a tonic and febrifuge. 

CHIRK:  To cheer; to enliven; as, to chirk one up. [Colloq. New Eng. ] 

CHIRK:  Lively; cheerful; in good spirits. [Colloq. New Eng.] 

CHIRM:  To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird. [Obs.] Huloet. 

CHIROGNOMY:  The art of judging character by the shape and apperance of the hand. 

CHIROGRAPHER:  Of or pertaining to chirography. 

CHIROGYMNAST:  A mechanocal contrivance for exercesing the fingers of a pianist. 

CHIROLOGICAL:  Relating to chirology. 

CHIROLOGIST:  One who communicates thoughts by signs made with the hands and fingers. 

CHIROLOGY:  The art or practice of using the manual alphabet or of communicating thoughts by sings made by the hands and fingers; a substitute for spoken or written language in intercourse with the deaf and dumb. See Dactylalogy. 

CHIROMANCER:  One who practices chiromancy. Dryden. 

CHIROMANCY:  The art or practice of foretelling events, or of telling the fortunes or the disposition of persons by inspecting the hand; palmistry.  CHIROMANIST; CHIROMANTIST Chi"ro*man`ist, Chi"ro*man`tist n. Etym: [Gr.  A chiromancer.  CHIROMANTIC; CHIROMANTICAL Chi`ro*man"tic, Chi`ro*man"tic*al a.  Of or pertaining to chiromancy. 

CHIROMONIC:  Relating to chironomy. 

CHIRONOMY:  The art of moving the hands in oratory or in pantomime; gesture [Obs.] 

CHIROPLAST:  An instrument to guid the hands and fingers of pupils in playing on the piano, etc. 

CHIROPODIST:  One who treats diseases of the hands and feet; especially, one who removes corns and bunions. 

CHIROPODY:  The art of treating diseases of the hands and feet. 

CHIROSOPHIST:  A fortune teller. 

CHIRP:  To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets. 

CHIRP:  A short, sharp note, as of a bird or insect. "The chirp of flitting bird." Bryant. 

CHIRPER:  One who chirps, or is cheerful. 

CHIRPING:  Cheering; enlivening. He takes his chirping pint, he cracks his jokes. Pope. 

CHIRPINGLY:  In a chirping manner. 

CHIRRE:  To coo, as a pigeon. [Obs.] 

CHIRRUP:  To quicken or animate by chirping; to cherup. 

CHIRRUP:  To chirp. Tennyson. The criket chirrups on the hearth. Goldsmith. 

CHIRRUP:  The act of chirping; a chirp. The sparrows' chirrup on the roof. Tennyson. 

CHIRRUPY:  Cheerful; joyous; chatty. 

CHIRURGEON:  A surgeon. [Obs.] 

CHIRURGEONLY:  Surgically. [Obs.] Shak. 

CHIRURGERY:  Surgery. [Obs.]  CHIRURGIC; CHIRURGICAL Chi*rur"gic, Chirur"gical, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chirurgiquerurgical, L. Chirurgicus, Gr. Chirurgeon, and cf. Surgical.]  Surgical [Obs.] "Chirurgical lore" Longfellow. 

CHISEL:  A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used in dressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; -- usually driven by a mallet or hammer. Cold chisel. See under Cold, a. 

CHISLEU:  The ninth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of November with a part of December. 

CHISLEY:  Having a large admixture of small pebbles or gravel; -- said of a soil. Gardner. 

CHIT:  To shoot out; to sprout. I have known barley chit in seven hours after it had been thrown forth. Mortimer. 

CHIT:  Chideth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHITCHAT:  Familiar or trifling talk; prattle. 

CHITIN:  A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other invertebrates; entomolin. 

CHITINIZATION:  The process of becoming chitinous. 

CHITINOUS:  Having the nature of chitin; consisting of, or containing, chitin. 

CHITON:  One of a group of gastropod mollusks, with a shell composed of eight movable dorsal plates. See Polyplacophora. 

CHITTERLING:  The frill to the breast of a shirt, which when ironed out resembled the small entrails. See Chitterlings. [Obs.] Gascoigne. 

CHITTERLINGS:  The smaller intestines of swine, etc., fried for food. 

CHITTRA:  The axis deer of India. 

CHIVACHIE:  A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHIVALRIC:  Relating to chivalry; knightly; chivalrous. 

CHIVALROUS:  Pertaining to chivalry or knight-errantry; warlike; heroic; gallant; high-spirited; high-minded; magnanimous. In brave pursuit of chivalrous emprise. Spenser. 

CHIVALROUSLY:  In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously. 

CHIVALRY:  A tenure of lands by knight's service; that is, by the condition of a knight's performing service on horseback, or of performing some noble or military service to his lord.  5. Exploit. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. Court of chivalry, a court formerly held before the lord high constable and earl marshal of England as judges, having cognizance of contracts and other matters relating to deeds of arms and war. Blackstone.  CHIVARRAS; CHIVARROS Chi*var"ras,  Chi*var"ros, n. pl. [Mex. Sp.]  Leggings. [Mex. & Southwestern U. S.] 

CHIVE:  A filament of a stamen. [Obs.] 

CHIVE:  A perennial plant (Allium Schoenoprasum), allied to the onion. The young leaves are used in omelets, etc. [Written also cive.] 

CHIVY:  To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens. 

CHLAMYDATE:  Having a mantle; -- applied to certain gastropods. 

CHLAMYPHORE:  A small South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus, and C. retusus) allied to the armadillo. It is covered with a leathery shell or coat of mail, like a cloak, attached along the spine. 

CHLAMYS:  A loose and flowing outer garment, worn by the ancient Greeks; a kind of cloak. 

CHLOASMA:  A cutaneous affection characterized by yellow or yellowish brown pigmented spots. 

CHLORAL:  A colorless oily liquid, CCl3.CHO, of a pungent odor and harsh taste, obtained by the action of chlorine upon ordinary or ethyl alcohol.  2. (Med.)  Chloral hydrate. Chloral hydrate, a white crystalline substance, obtained by treating chloral with water. It produces sleep when taken internally or hypodermically; -- called also chloral. 

CHLORALAMIDE:  A compound of chloral and formic amide used to produce sleep. 

CHLORALISM:  A morbid condition of the system resulting from excessive use of chloral. 

CHLORALUM:  An impure aqueous solution of chloride of aluminium, used as an antiseptic and disinfectant. 

CHLORANIL:  A yellow crystalline substance, C6Cl4.O2, regarded as a derivative of quinone, obtained by the action of chlorine on certain benzene derivatives, as aniline. 

CHLORATE:  A salt of chloric acid; as, chlorate of potassium. 

CHLORAURATE:  See Aurochloride. 

CHLORHYDRIC:  Same as Hydrochloric. 

CHLORHYDRIN:  One of a class of compounds formed from certain polybasic alcohols (and especially glycerin) by the substitution of chlorine for one or more hydroxyl groups. 

CHLORIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, chlorine; -- said of those compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, chloric acid, HClO3. Chloric ether (Chem.), ethylene dichloride. See Dutch liquid, under Dutch. 

CHLORIDATE:  To treat or prepare with a chloride, as a plate with chloride of silver, for the purposes of photography. R. Hunt. 

CHLORIDE:  A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical; as, chloride of sodium (common salt). Chloride of ammonium, sal ammoniac.  -- Chloride of lime, bleaching powder; a grayish white substance, CaOClcalcium hypochlorite. See Hypochlorous acid, under Hypochlorous.  -- Mercuric chloride, corrosive sublimate. 

CHLORIDIC:  Of or pertaining to a chloride; containing a chloride. 

CHLORIDIZE:  See Chloridate. 

CHLORIMETRY:  See Chlorometry. 

CHLORINATE:  To treat, or cause to combine, with chlorine. 

CHLORINATION:  The act or process of subjecting anything to the action of chlorine; especially, a process for the extraction of gold by exposure of the auriferous material to chlorine gas. 

CHLORINE:  One of the elementary substances, commonly isolated as a greenish yellow gas, two and one half times as heavy as air, of an intensely disagreeable suffocating odor, and exceedingly poisonous. It is abundant in nature, the most important compound being common salt. It is powerful oxidizing, bleaching, and disinfecting agent. Symbol Cl. Atomic weight, 35.4. Chlorine family, the elements fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine, called the halogens, and classed together from their common peculiariries. 

CHLORIODIC:  Compounded of chlorine and iodine; containing chlorine and iodine. 

CHLORIODINE:  A compound of chlorine and iodine. [R.] 

CHLORITE:  The name of a group of minerals, usually of a green color and micaceous to granular in structure. They are hydrous silicates of alumina, iron, and magnesia. Chlorite slate, a schistose or slaty rock consisting of alumina, iron, and magnesia. 

CHLORITE:  Any salt of chlorous acid; as, chlorite of sodium. 

CHLORITIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, chlorite; as, chloritic sand. 

CHLORMETHANE:  A colorless gas, CH3Cl, of a sweet odor, easily condensed to a liquid; -- called also methyl chloride.  CHLORO- Chlo"ro-. (Chem.)  A prefix denoting that chlorine is an ingredient in the substance named. 

CHLOROCRUORIN:  A green substance, supposed to be the cause of the green color of the blood in some species of worms. Ray Lankester. 

CHLORODYNE:  A patent anodyne medicine, containing opium, chloroform, Indian hemp, etc. 

CHLOROFORM:  A colorless volatile liquid, CHCl3, having an ethereal odor and a sweetish taste, formed by treating alcohol with chlorine and an alkali. It is a powerful solvent of wax, resin, etc., and is extensively used to produce anæsthesia in surgical operations; also externally, to alleviate pain. 

CHLOROFORM:  To treat with chloroform, or to place under its influence. 

CHLOROLEUCITE:  Same as Chloroplastid. 

CHLOROMETER:  An instrument to test the decoloring or bleaching power of chloride of lime. 

CHLOROMETRY:  The process of testing the bleaching power of any combination of chlorine. 

CHLOROPAL:  A massive mineral, greenish in color, and opal-like in appearance. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of iron. 

CHLOROPEPTIC:  Of or pertaining to an acid more generally called pepsin- hydrochloric acid. 

CHLOROPHANE:  A variety of fluor spar, which, when heated, gives a beautiful emerald green light.  2. (Physiol.)  The yellowish green pigment in the inner segment of the cones of the retina. See Chromophane. 

CHLOROPHYLL:  Literally, leaf green; a green granular matter formed in the cells of the leaves (and other parts exposed to light) of plants, to which they owe their green color, and through which all ordinary assimilation of plant food takes place. Similar chlorophyll granules have been found in the tissues of the lower animals. [Written also chlorophyl.] 

CHLOROPLAST:  A plastid containing chlorophyll, developed only in cells exposed to the light. Chloroplasts are minute flattened granules, usually occurring in great numbers in the cytoplasm near the cell wall, and consist of a colorless ground substance saturated with chlorophyll pigments. Under light of varying intensity they exhibit phototactic movements. In animals chloroplasts occur only in certain low forms. 

CHLOROPLASTID:  A granule of chlorophyll; -- also called chloroleucite. 

CHLOROPLATINIC:  See Platinichloric. 

CHLOROSIS:  The green sickness; an anæmic disease of young women, characterized by a greenish or grayish yellow hue of the skin, weakness, palpitation, etc.  2. (Bot.)  A disease in plants, causing the flowers to turn green or the leaves to lose their normal green color. 

CHLOROTIC:  Pertaining to, or affected by, chlorosis. 

CHLOROUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the electro-negative character of chlorine; hence, electro-negative; -- opposed to basylous or zincous. [Obs.] 

CHLORPICRIN:  A heavy, colorless liquid, CCl3.NO2, of a strong pungent odor, obtained by subjecting picric acid to the action of chlorine. [Written also chloropikrin.] 

CHLORURET:  A chloride. [Obs.] 

CHOAK:  See Choke. 

CHOANOID:  Funnel-shaped; -- applied particularly to a hollow muscle attached to the ball of the eye in many reptiles and mammals. 

CHOCARD:  The chough. 

CHOCK:  To stop or fasten, as with a wedge, or block; to scotch; as, to chock a wheel or cask. 

CHOCK:  To fill up, as a cavity. "The woodwork . . . exactly chocketh into joints." Fuller. 

CHOCK:  A heavy casting of metal, usually fixed near the gunwale. It has two short horn-shaped arms curving inward, between which ropes or hawsers may pass for towing, mooring, etc. 

CHOCK:  Entirely; quite; as, chock home; chock aft. 

CHOCK:  To encounter. [Obs.] 

CHOCK:  An encounter. [Obs.] 

CHOCKABLOCK:  Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought close together, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.  CHOCK-FULL Chock"-full`, a.  Quite full; choke-full. 

CHOCTAWS:  ; sing. Choctaw. (Ethnol.) A tribe of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian), in early times noted for their pursuit of agriculture, and for living at peace with the white settlers. They are now one of the civilized tribes of the Indian Territory. 

CHODE:  the old imp. of chide. See Chide. 

CHOGSET:  See Cunner. 

CHOICEFUL:  Making choices; fickle. [Obs.] His choiceful sense with every change doth fit. Spenser. 

CHOICENESS:  The quality of being of particular value or worth; nicely; excellence. 

CHOIR:  The chancel. Choir organ (Mus.), one of the three or five distinct organs included in the full organ, each separable from the rest, but all controlled by one performer; a portion of the full organ, complete in itself, and more practicable for ordinary service and in the accompanying of the vocal choir.  -- Choir screen, Choir wall (Arch.), a screen or low wall separating the choir from the aisles.  -- Choir service, the service of singing performed by the choir. T. Warton. 

CHOKEBERRY:  The small apple-shaped or pear-shaped fruit of an American shrub (Pyrus arbutifolia) growing in damp thickets; also, the shrub. 

CHOKEBORE:  To provide with a chokebore. 

CHOKECHERRY:  The astringent fruit of a species of wild cherry (Prunus Virginiana); also, the bush or tree which bears such fruit.  CHOKE DAMP Choke" damp`.  See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic. 

CHOKEDAR:  A watchman; an officer of customs or police. [India]  CHOKE-FULL Choke"-full`, a.  Full to the brim; quite full; chock-full.  CHOKE PEAR Choke" pear`.  1. A kind of pear that has a rough, astringent taste, and is swallowed with difficulty, or which contracts the mucous membrane of the mouth.  2. A sarcasm by which one is put to silence; anything that can not be answered. [Low] S. Richardson. 

CHOKER:  A strap leading from the bellyband to the lower part of the collar, to keep the collar in place. 

CHOKING:  A coil of small resistance and large inductance, used in an alternating-current circuit to impede or throttle the current, or to change its phase; --called also reactance coil or reactor, these terms being now preferred in engineering usage.  CHOKY; CHOKEY Chok"y Chok"ey, a.  1. Tending to choke or suffocate, or having power to suffocate.  2. Inclined to choke, as a person affected with strong emotion. "A deep and choky voice." Aytoun. The allusion to his mother made Tom feel rather chokey. T. Hughes. 

CHOLAEMAA:  A disease characterized by severe nervous symptoms, dependent upon the presence of the constituents of the bile in the blood. 

CHOLAGOGUE:  Promoting the discharge of bile from the system.  -- n.  An agent which promotes the discharge of bile from the system. 

CHOLATE:  A salt of cholic acid; as, sodium cholate. 

CHOLECYSTIS:  The gall bladder. 

CHOLECYSTOTOMY:  The operation of making an opening in the gall bladder, as for the removal of a gallstone. 

CHOLEDOLOGY:  A treatise on the bile and bilary organs. Dunglison.  Note: Littré says that the word cholédologie is absolutely barbarous, there being no Greek word cholology. 

CHOLEIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, bile; as, choleic acid. 

CHOLERA:  One of several diseases affecting the digestive and intestinal tract and more or less dangerous to life, esp. the one commonly called Asiatic cholera. Asiatic cholera, a malignant and rapidly fatal disease, originating in Asia and frequently epidemic in the more filthy sections of other lands, to which the germ or specific poison may have been carried. It is characterized by diarrhea, rice- water evacuations, vomiting, cramps, pinched expression, and lividity, rapidly passing into a state of collapse, followed by death, or by a stage of reaction of fever.  -- Cholera bacillus. See Comma bacillus.  -- Cholera infantum, a dangerous summer disease, of infants, caused by hot weather, bad air, or poor milk, and especially fatal in large cities.  -- Cholera morbus, a disease characterized by vomiting and purging, with gripings and cramps, usually caused by imprudence in diet or by gastrointestinal disturbance.  -- Chicken cholera. See under Chicken.  -- Hog cholera. See under Hog.  -- Sporadic cholera, a disease somewhat resembling the Asiatic cholera, but originating where it occurs, and rarely becoming epidemic. 

CHOLERAIC:  Relating to, or resulting from, or resembling, cholera. 

CHOLERICLY:  In a choleric manner; angrily. 

CHOLERIFORM:  Resembling cholera. 

CHOLEROID:  Choleriform. 

CHOLESTERIC:  Pertaining to cholesterin, or obtained from it; as, cholesteric acid. Ure. 

CHOLESTERIN:  A white, fatty, crystalline substance, tasteless and odorless, found in animal and plant products and tissue, and especially in nerve tissue, in the bile, and in gallstones.  CHOLIAMB; CHOLIAMBIC Cho"li*amb, Cho`li*am"bic, n. Etym: [L. choliambus, Gr. (Pros.)  A verse having an iambus in the fifth place, and a spondee in the sixth or last.  CHOLIC; CHOLINIC Chol"ic, Cho*lin"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)  Pertaining to, or obtained from, the bile. Cholic acid (Chem.), a complex organic acid found as a natural constituent of taurocholic and glycocholic acids in the bile, and extracted as a resinous substance, convertible under the influence of ether into white crystals. 

CHOLINE:  See Neurine. 

CHOLOCHROME:  See Bilirubin. 

CHOLOPHAEIN:  See Bilirubin. 

CHOLTRY:  A Hindoo caravansary. 

CHOMAGE:  Stoppage; cessation (of labor).  2.  A standing still or idle (of mills, factories, etc.). 

CHOMP:  To chew loudly and greedily; to champ. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] Halliwell. 

CHONDRIFICATION:  Formation of, or conversion into, cartilage. 

CHONDRIFY:  To convert, or be converted, into cartilage. 

CHONDRIGEN:  The chemical basis of cartilage, converted by long boiling in water into a gelatinous body called chondrin. 

CHONDRIGENOUS:  Affording chondrin. 

CHONDRIN:  A colorless, amorphous, nitrogenous substance, tasteless and odorless, formed from cartilaginous tissue by long-continued action of boiling water. It is similar to gelatin, and is a large ingredient of commercial gelatin. 

CHONDRITE:  A meteoric stone characterized by the presence of chondrules. 

CHONDRITIC:  Granular; pertaining to, or having the granular structure characteristic of, the class of meteorites called chondrites. 

CHONDRITIS:  An inflammation of cartilage.  CHONDRO- Chon"dro-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form meaning a grain, granular, granular cartilage, cartilaginous; as, the chondrocranium, the cartilaginous skull of the lower vertebrates and of embryos. 

CHONDRODITE:  A fluosilicate of magnesia and iron, yellow to red in color, often occurring in granular form in a crystalline limestone. 

CHONDROGANOIDEA:  An order of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so called on account of their cartilaginous skeleton. 

CHONDROGEN:  Same as Chondrigen. 

CHONDROGENESIS:  The development of cartilage. 

CHONDROID:  Resembling cartilage. 

CHONDROLOGY:  The science which treats of cartilages. Dunglison. 

CHONDROMA:  A cartilaginous tumor or growth. 

CHONDROMETER:  A steelyard for weighting grain. 

CHONDROPTERYGIAN:  Having a cartilaginous skeleton.  -- n.  One of the Chondropterygii. 

CHONDROPTERYGII:  A group of fishes, characterized by cartilaginous fins and skeleton. It includes both ganoids (sturgeons, etc.) and selachians (sharks), but is now often restricted to the latter. [Written also Chondropterygia.] 

CHONDROSTEI:  An order of fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so named because the skeleton is cartilaginous. 

CHONDROTOMY:  The dissection of cartilages. 

CHONDRULE:  A peculiar rounded granule of some mineral, usually enstatite or chrysolite, found imdedded more or less aboundantly in the mass of many meteoric stones, which are hence called chondrites. 

CHOOSER:  One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; an elector. Burke. 

CHOP:  To vary or shift suddenly; as, the wind chops about.  3. To wrangle; to altercate; to bandy words. Let not the counsel at the bar chop with the judge. Bacon. 

CHOP:  A change; a vicissitude. Marryat. 

CHOP:  To crack. See Chap, v. t. & i. 

CHOPBOAT:  A licensed lighter employed in the transportation of goods to and from vessels. [China] S. W. Williams. 

CHOPCHURCH:  An exchanger or an exchange of benefices. [Cant] 

CHOPFALLEN:  Having the lower chop or jaw depressed; hence, crestfallen; dejected; dispirited;downcast. See Chapfallen. 

CHOPHOUSE:  A house where chops, etc., are sold; an eating house. The freedom of a chophouse. W. Irving. 

CHOPHOUSE:  A customhouse where transit duties are levied. [China] S. W. Williams. 

CHOPIN:  A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain, varying from half a pint to a wine quart. 

CHOPIN:  See Chopine. 

CHOPINE:  A clog, or patten, having a very thick sole, or in some cases raised upon a stilt to a height of a foot or more. [Variously spelt chioppine, chopin, etc.] Your ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the altitude of a chopine. Shak.  CHOP-LOGIC Chop"-log`ic, n.  One who bandies words or is very argunentative. [Jocular] Shak. 

CHOPNESS:  A kind of spade. [Eng.] 

CHOPPER:  One who, or that which, chops. 

CHOPPING:  Stout or plump; large. [Obs.] Fenton. 

CHOPPING:  Shifting or changing suddenly, as the wind; also, having tumbling waves dashing against each other; as, a chopping sea. 

CHOPPING:  Act of cutting by strokes. Chopping block, a solid block of wood on which butchers and others chop meat, etc.  -- Chopping knife, a knife for chopping or mincing meat, vegetables, etc.; -- usually with a handle at the back of the blade instead of at the end. 

CHOPPY:  Rough, with short, tumultuous waves; as, a choppy sea. 

CHOPSTICK:  One of two small sticks of wood, ivory, etc., used by the Chinese and Japanese to convey food to the mouth.  CHOP SUEY; CHOP SOOY Chop su"ey or Chop soo"y . [Chin. (Cantonese) shap sui odds and ends, fr. shap for sap to enter the mouth + sui small bits pounded fine.]  A mélange served in Chinese restaurants to be eaten with rice, noodles, etc. It consists typically of bean sprouts, onions, mushrooms, etc., and sliced meats, fried and flavored with sesame oil. [U. S.] 

CHORAGIC:  Of or pertaining to a choragus. Choragic monument, a building or column built by a victorious choragus for the reception and exhibition of the tripod which he received as a prize. Those of Lysicrates and Thrasyllus are still to be seen at Athens. 

CHORAGUS:  A chorus leader; esp. one who provided at his own expense and under his own supervision one of the choruses for the musical contents at Athens. 

CHORAL:  Of or pertaining to a choir or chorus; singing, sung, or adapted to be sung, in chorus or harmony. Choral service, a service of song. 

CHORAL:  A hymn tune; a simple sacred tune, sung in unison by the congregation; as, the Lutheran chorals. [Sometimes written chorale.] 

CHORALIST:  A singer or composer of chorals. 

CHORALLY:  In the manner of a chorus; adapted to be sung by a choir; in harmony. 

CHORD:  A combination of tones simultaneously performed, producing more or less perfect harmony, as, the common chord.  3. (Geom.)  A right line uniting the extremities of the arc of a circle or curve.  4. (Anat.)  A cord. See Cord, n., 4.  5. (Engin.)  The upper or lower part of a truss, usually horizontal, resisting compression or tension. Waddell. Accidental, Common, and Vocal chords. See under Accidental, Common, and Vocal.  -- Chord of an arch. See Illust. of Arch.  -- Chord of curvature, a chord drawn from any point of a curve, in the circle of curvature for that point.  -- Scale of chords. See Scale. 

CHORD:  To provide with musical chords or strings; to string; to tune. When Jubal struck the chorded shell. Dryden. Even the solitary old pine tree chords his harp. Beecher. 

CHORD:  To accord; to harmonize together; as, this note chords with that. 

CHORDA:  A cord. Chorda dorsalis (. Etym: [NL., lit., cord of the back.] (Anat.) See Notochord. 

CHORDAL:  Of or pertaining to a chord. 

CHORDATA:  A comprehensive division of animals including all Vertebrata together with the Tunicata, or all those having a dorsal nervous cord. 

CHORDEE:  A painful erection of the penis, usually with downward curvature, occurring in gonorrhea. 

CHORE:  A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of a household or farm, either within or without doors. [U. S.] 

CHORE:  To do chores. [U. S.] 

CHORE:  A choir or chorus. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

CHOREA:  St. Vitus's dance; a disease attended with convulsive twitchings and other involuntary movements of the muscles or limbs. 

CHOREE:  See Choreus.  CHOREGRAPHIC; CHOREGRAPHICAL Cho`re*graph"ic, Cho`re*graph"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to choregraphy. 

CHOREGRAPHY:  The art of representing dancing by signs, as music is represented by notes. Craig. 

CHOREIC:  Of the nature of, or pertaining to, chorea; convulsive. 

CHOREPISCOPAL:  Pertaining to a chorepiscopus or his change or authority. 

CHOREPISCOPUS:  A "country" or suffragan bishop, appointed in the ancient church by a diocesan bishop to exercise episcopal jurisdiction in a rural district.  CHOREUS; CHOREE Cho*re"us, Cho*ree" (, n. Etym: [L. choreus, Gr. chorée.] (Anc. Pros.) (a) a trochee. (b) A tribrach. 

CHORIAMB:  Same as Choriambus. 

CHORIAMBIC:  Pertaining to a choriamb.  -- n.  A choriamb. 

CHORIAMBUS:  A foot consisting of four syllables, of which the first and last are long, and the other short (- ~ ~ -); that is, a choreus, or trochee, and an iambus united. 

CHORIC:  Of or pertaining to a chorus. I remember a choric ode in the Hecuba. Coleridge. 

CHORION:  The outer membrane of seeds of plants. 

CHORISIS:  The separation of a leaf or floral organ into two more parts.  Note: In collateral chorisis the parts are side by side.  -- In parallel or median chorisis they are one in front of another. 

CHORIST:  A singer in a choir; a chorister. [R.] 

CHORISTIC:  Choric; choral. [R.] 

CHOROGRAPH:  An instrument for constructing triangles in marine surveying, etc. 

CHOROGRAPHICAL:  Pertaining to chorography.  -- Cho`ro*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

CHOROGRAPHY:  the mapping or description of a region or district. The chorography of their provinces. Sir T. Browne. 

CHOROID:  resembling the chorion; as, the choroid plexuses of the ventricles of the brain, and the choroid coat of the eyeball.  -- n.  The choroid coat of the eye. See Eye. Choroid plexus (Anat.), one of the delicate fringelike processes, consisting almost entirely of blood vessels, which project into the ventricles of the brain. 

CHOROIDAL:  Pertaining to the choroid coat. 

CHOROLOGY:  The science which treats of the laws of distribution of living organisms over the earth's surface as to latitude, altitude, locality, etc. Its distribution or chorology. Huxley. 

CHOROMETRY:  The art of surveying a region or district. 

CHORTLE:  A word coined by Lewis Carroll (Charles L. Dodgson), and usually explained as a combination of chuckle and snort. [Humorous]  O frabjous day ! Callooh ! Callay ! He chortled in his joy. Lewis Carroll. 

CHORUS:  A band of singers and dancers. The Grecian tragedy was at first nothing but a chorus of singers. Dryden.  2. (Gr. Drama)  A company of persons supposed to behold what passed in the acts of a tragedy, and to sing the sentiments which the events suggested in couplets or verses between the acts; also, that which was thus sung by the chorus. What the lofty, grave tragedians taught In chorus or iambic. Milton.  3. An interpreter in a dumb show or play. [Obs.]  4. (Mus.)  A company of singers singing in concert.  5. (Mus.)  A composition of two or more parts, each of which is intended to be sung by a number of voices.  6. (Mus.)  Parts of a song or hymn recurring at intervals, as at the end of stanzas; also, a company of singers who join with the singer or choir in singer or choir in singing such parts.  7. The simultaneous of a company in any noisy demonstration; as, a Chorus of shouts and catcalls. 

CHORUS:  To sing in chorus; to exclaim simultaneously. W. D. Howells. 

CHOSE:  A thing; personal property. Chose in action, a thing of which one has not possession or actual enjoyment, but only a right to it, or a right to demand it by action at law, and which does not exist at the time in specie; a personal right to a thing not reduced to possession, but recoverable by suit at law; as a right to recover money due on a contract, or damages for a tort, which can not be enforced against a reluctant party without suit.  -- Chose in possession, a thing in possession, as distinguished from a thing in action.  -- Chose local, a thing annexed to a place, as a mill.  -- Chose transitory, a thing which is movable. Cowell. Blount. 

CHOSE:  imp. & p. p. of Choose. 

CHOSEN:  Selected from a number; picked out; choice. Seven hundred chosen men left-handed. Judg. xx. 16. 

CHOSEN:  One who, or that which is the object of choice or special favor. 

CHOUAN:  One of the royalist insurgents in western France (Brittany, etc.), during and after the French revolution. 

CHOUGH:  A bird of the Crow family (Fregilus graculus) of Europe. It is of a black color, with a long, slender, curved bill and red legs; -- also called chauk, chauk-daw, chocard, Cornish chough, red-legged crow. The name is also applied to several allied birds, as the Alpine chough. Cornish chough (Her.), a bird represented black, with red feet, and beak; -- called also aylet and sea swallow. 

CHOUICHA:  The salmon of the Columbia River or California. See Quinnat. 

CHOUKA:  The Indian four-horned antelope; the chikara. 

CHOULE:  See Jowl. Sir W. Scott. 

CHOULTRY:  See Choltry. 

CHOUSE:  To cheat, trick, defraud; -- followed by of, or out of; as, to chouse one out of his money. [Colloq.] The undertaker of the afore-cited poesy hath choused your highness. Landor. 

CHOUT:  An assessment equal to a fourth part of the revenue. [India] J. Mill. 

CHOW:  A prefecture or district of the second rank in China, or the chief city of such a district; -- often part of the name of a city, as in Foochow. 

CHOWCHOW:  Consisting of several kinds mingled together; mixed; as, chowchow sweetmeats (preserved fruits put together).  Chowchow chop, the last lighter containing the small sundry packages sent off to fill up a ship. S. W. Williams. 

CHOWCHOW:  A kind of mixed pickles. 

CHOWDER:  A dish made of fresh fish or clams, biscuit, onions, etc., stewed together.  2. A seller of fish. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Chowder beer, a liquor made by boiling black spruce in water and mixing molasses with the decoction. 

CHOWDER:  To make a chowder of. 

CHOWRY:  A whisk to keep off files, used in the East Indies. Malcom. 

CHOWTER:  To grumble or mutter like a froward child. [Obs.] E. Phillips.  CHOY ROOT Choy" root`.  See Chay root. 

CHREMATISTICS:  The science of wealth; the science, or a branch of the science, of political economy. 

CHREOTECHNICS:  The science of the useful arts, esp. agriculture, manufactures, and commerce. [R.] 

CHRESTOMATHIC:  Teaching what is useful. "A chrestomathic school." Southey. 

CHRESTOMATHY:  A selection of passages, with notes, etc., to be used in acquiring a language; as, a Hebrew chrestomathy. 

CHRISMAL:  Of or pertaining to or used in chrism. 

CHRISMATION:  The act of applying the chrism, or consecrated oil. Chrismation or cross-signing with ointment, was used in baptism. Jer. Taylor. 

CHRISMATORY:  A cruet or vessel in which chrism is kept. 

CHRIST:  The Anointed; an appellation given to Jesus, the Savior. It is synonymous with the Hebrew Messiah. 

CHRISTCROSS:  The alphabet; -- formerly so called, either from the cross usually set before it, or from a superstitious custom, sometimes practiced, of writing it in the form of a cross, by way of a charm. From infant conning of the Christcross-row. Wordsworth. 

CHRISTIAN:  The era in use in all Christian countries, which was intended to commence with the birth of Christ. The era as now established was first used by Dionysius Exiguus (died about 540), who placed the birth of Christ on the 25th of December in the year of Rome 754, which year he counted as 1 a. d. This date for Christ's birth is now generally thought to be about four years too late. 

CHRISTIANIZATION:  The act or process of converting or being converted to a true Christianity. 

CHRISTIANIZE:  To adopt the character or belief of a Christian; to become Christian. The pagans began to Christianize. Latham. 

CHRISTIANLIKE:  Becoming to a Christian. A virtuous and a Christianlike conclusion. Shak. 

CHRISTIANLY:  In a manner becoming the principles of the Christian religion. Sufferings . . . patiently and Christianly borne. Sharp. 

CHRISTIANLY:  Christianlike. Longfellow. 

CHRISTIANNESS:  Consonance with the doctrines of Christianity. [Obs.] Hammond.  CHRISTIAN SCIENCE Christian Science.  A system of healing disease of mind and body which teaches that all cause and effect is mental, and that sin, sickness, and death will be destroyed by a full understanding of the Divine Principle of Jesus' teaching and healing. The system was founded by Rev. Mary Baker Glover Eddy, of Concord, N. H., in 1866, and bases its teaching on the Scriptures as understood by its adherents.  CHRISTIAN SCIENTIST Christian Scientist.  A believer in Christian Science; one who practices its teachings.  CHRISTIAN SENECA Christian Seneca.  Joseph Hall (1574 -- 1656), Bishop of Norwich, a divine eminent as a moralist.  CHRISTIAN SOCIALISM Christian Socialism.  Any theory or system that aims to combine the teachings of Christ with the teachings of socialism in their applications to life; Christianized socialism; esp., the principles of this nature advocated by F. D. Maurice, Charles Kingsley, and others in England about 1850. -- Christian socialist. 

CHRISTLESS:  Without faith in Christ; unchristian. Tennyson. 

CHRISTLIKE:  Resembling Christ in character, actions, etc.  -- Christ"like`ness, n. 

CHRISTLY:  Christlike. H. Bushnell. 

CHRISTMAS:  An annual church festival (December 25) and in some States a legal holiday, in memory of the birth of Christ, often celebrated by a particular church service, and also by special gifts, greetings, and hospitality. Christmas box. (a) A box in which presents are deposited at Christmas. (b) A present or small gratuity given to young people and servants at Christmas; a Christmas gift.  -- Christmas carol, a carol sung at, or suitable for, Christmas.  -- Christmas day. Same as Christmas.  -- Christmas eve, the evening before Christmas.  -- Christmas fern (Bot.), an evergreen North American fern (Aspidium acrostichoides), which is much used for decoration in winter.  -- Christmas flower, Christmas rose, the black hellebore, a poisonous plant of the buttercup family, which in Southern Europe often produces beautiful roselike flowers midwinter.  -- Christmas tree, a small evergreen tree, set up indoors, to be decorated with bonbons, presents, etc., and illuminated on Christmas eve. 

CHRISTMASTIDE:  The season of Christmas. 

CHRISTOCENTRIC:  Making Christ the center, about whom all things are grouped, as in religion or history; tending toward Christ, as the central object of thought or emotion. J. W. Chadwick. 

CHRISTOLOGY:  A treatise on Christ; that department of theology which treats of the personality, attributes, or life of Christ. 

CHRISTOM:  See Chrisom. [Obs.] Shak. 

CHRISTOPHANY:  An appearance of Christ, as to his disciples after the crucifixion.  CHRIST'S-THORN Christ's-thorn`, n. (Bot.)  One of several prickly or thorny shrubs found in Palestine, especially the Paliurus aculeatus, Zizyphus Spina-Christi, and Z. vulgaris. The last bears the fruit called jujube, and may be considered to have been the most readily obtainable for the Crown of Thorns. 

CHROMASCOPE:  An instrument for showing the optical effects of color. 

CHROMATE:  A salt of chromic acid. 

CHROMATIC:  Proceeding by the smaller intervals (half steps or semitones) of the scale, instead of the regular intervals of the diatonic scale.  Note: The intermediate tones were formerly written and printed in colors. Chromatic aberration. (Opt.) See Aberration, 4.  -- Chromatic printing, printing from type or blocks covered with inks of various colors.  -- Chromatic scale (Mus.), the scale consisting of thirteen tones, including the eight scale tones and the five intermediate tones. 

CHROMATICAL:  Chromatic. [Obs.] 

CHROMATICALLY:  In a chromatic manner. 

CHROMATICS:  The science of colors; that part of optics which treats of the properties of colors. 

CHROMATIN:  Tissue which is capable of being stained by dyes. 

CHROMATISM:  The state of being colored, as in the case of images formed by a lens.  2. (Bot.)  An abnormal coloring of plants. 

CHROMATOGENOUS:  Producing color. 

CHROMATOGRAPHY:  A treatise on colors 

CHROMATOLOGY:  A treatise on colors. 

CHROMATOPHORE:  A contractile cell or vesicle containing liquid pigment and capable of changing its form or size, thus causing changes of color in the translucent skin of such animals as possess them. They are highly developed and numerous in the cephalopods.  2. (Bot.)  One of the granules of protoplasm, which in mass give color to the part of the plant containing them. 

CHROMATOSCOPE:  A reflecting telescope, part of which is made to rotate eccentrically, so as to produce a ringlike image of a star, instead of a point; -- used in studying the scintillation of the stars. 

CHROMATOSPHERE:  A chromosphere. [R.] 

CHROMATROPE:  An instrument for exhibiting certain chromatic effects of light (depending upon the persistence of vision and mixture of colors) by means of rapidly rotating disks variously colored.  2. A device in a magic lantern or stereopticon to produce kaleidoscopic effects. 

CHROMATYPE:  A colored photographic picture taken upon paper made sensitive with potassium bichromate or some other salt of chromium.  2. The process by which such picture is made. 

CHROME:  Same as Chromium. Chrome alum (Chem.), a dark violet substance, (SO4)3Cr2.K2SO4.24H2O, analogous to, and crystallizing like, common alum. It is regarded as a double sulphate of chromium and potassium.  -- Chrome green (a) The green oxide of chromium, Cr2O3, used in enamel painting, and glass staining. (b) A pigment made by mixing chrome yellow with Prussian blue.  -- Chrome red, a beautiful red pigment originally prepared from the basic chromate of lead, but now made from red oxide of lead.  -- Chrome yellow, a brilliant yellow pigment, PbCrO4, used by painters.  CHROME STEEL Chrome steel.  Same as Chromium steel, under Steel. 

CHROMIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, chromium; -- said of the compounds of chromium in which it has its higher valence. Chromic acid, an acid, H2CrO4, analogous to sulphuric acid, not readily obtained in the free state, but forming well known salts, many of which are colored pigments, as chrome yellow, chrome red, etc.  -- Chromic anhydride, a brilliant red crystalline substance, CrO3, regarded as the anhydride of chromic acid. It is one of the most powerful oxidizers known. 

CHROMID:  One of the Chromidæ, a family of fresh-water fishes abundant in the tropical parts of America and Africa. Some are valuable food fishes, as the bulti of the Nile. 

CHROMIDROSIS:  Secretion of abnormally colored perspiration. 

CHROMISM:  Same as Chromatism. 

CHROMITE:  A black submetallic mineral consisting of oxide of chromium and iron; -- called also chromic iron.  2. (Chem.)  A compound or salt of chromous hydroxide regarded as an acid. [R.] 

CHROMIUM:  A comparatively rare element occurring most abundantly in the mineral chromite. Atomic weight 52.5. Symbol Cr. When isolated it is a hard, brittle, grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty. Its chief commercial importance is for its compounds, as potassium chromate, lead chromate, etc., which are brilliantly colored and are used dyeing and calico printing. Called also chrome. 

CHROMO:  A chromolithograph. 

CHROMOBLAST:  An embryonic cell which develops into a pigment cell. 

CHROMOGEN:  Vegetable coloring matter other than green; chromule.  2. (Chem.)  Any colored compound, supposed to contain one or more chromophores. 

CHROMOGENIC:  Containing, or capable of forming, chromogen; as, chromogenic bacteria. 

CHROMOGRAPH:  An apparatus by which a number of copies of written matter, maps, plans, etc., can be made; -- called also hectograph. 

CHROMOLEUCITE:  A chromoplastid. 

CHROMOLITHOGRAPH:  A picture printed in tints and colors by repeated impressions from a series of stones prepared by the lithographic process. 

CHROMOLITHOGRAPHER:  One who is engaged in chromolithography. 

CHROMOLITHOGRAPHIC:  Pertaining to, or made by, chromolithography. 

CHROMOLITHOGRAPHY:  Lithography adapted to printing in inks of various colors. 

CHROMOPHANE:  A general name for the several coloring matters, red, green, yellow, etc., present in the inner segments in the cones of the retina, held in solution by fats, and slowly decolorized by light; distinct from the photochemical pigments of the rods of the retina. 

CHROMOPHORE:  Any chemical group or residue (as NO 

CHROMOPHOTOGRAPH:  A picture made by any of the processes for reproducing photographs in colors. --Chro`mo*pho`to*graph"ic (#), a. 

CHROMOPHOTOGRAPHY:  The art of producing photographs in colors. 

CHROMOPHOTOLITHOGRAPH:  A photolithograph printed in colors. 

CHROMOPLASTID:  A protoplasmic granule of some other color than green; -- also called chromoleucite. 

CHROMOSOME:  One of the minute bodies into which the chromatin of the nucleus is resolved during mitotic cell division; the idant of Weismann. 

CHROMOSPHERE:  An atmosphere of rare matter, composed principally of incandescent hydrogen gas, surrounding the sun and enveloping the photosphere. Portions of the chromosphere are here and there thrown up into enormous tongues of flame. 

CHROMOSPHERIC:  Of or pertaining to the chromosphere. 

CHROMOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chromium, when this element has a valence lower than that in chromic compounds. Chromous acid, a bluish gray powder, CrO.OH, of weak acid properties and regard as an acid. 

CHROMULE:  A general name for coloring matter of plants other than chlorophyll, especially that of petals. 

CHRONICAL:  Chronic. Partly on a chronical, and partly on a topical method. J. A. Alexander. 

CHRONICLE:  The two canonical books of the Old Testament in which immediately follow 2 Kings.  Syn. - Register; record; annals. See History. 

CHRONICLE:  To record in a history or chronicle; to record; to register. Shak. 

CHRONICLER:  A writer of a chronicle; a recorder of events in the order of time; an historian. Such an honest chronicler as Griffith. Shak. 

CHRONIQUE:  A chronicle. L. Addison. 

CHRONOGRAM:  Belonging to a chronogram, or containing one. 

CHRONOGRAMMATIST:  A writer of chronograms. 

CHRONOGRAPHER:  One who writes a chronography; a chronologer. Tooke. 

CHRONOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to a chronograph. 

CHRONOGRAPHY:  A description or record of past time; history. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

CHRONOLOGER:  Same as Chronologist.  CHRONOLOGIC; CHRONOLOGICAL Chron`o*log"ic, Chron`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Relating to chronology; containing an account of events in the order of time; according to the order of time; as, chronological tables. Raleigh.  -- Chron`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.  CHRONOLOGIST; CHRONOLOGER Chro*nol"o*gist, Chro*nol"o*ger, n. Etym: [Gr.  A person who investigates dates of events and transactions; one skilled in chronology. That learned noise and dust of the chronologist is wholly to be avoided. Locke. THe most exact chronologers tell us that Christ was born in October, and not in December. John Knox. 

CHRONOLOGY:  The science which treats of measuring time by regular divisions or periods, and which assigns to events or transactions their proper dates. If history without chronology is dark and confused, chronology without history is dry and insipid. A. Holmes. 

CHRONOMETER:  A metronome. Box chronometer. See under Box.  -- Pocket chronometer, a chronometer in the form of a large watch.  -- To rate a chronometer. See Rate, v. t.  CHRONOMETRIC; CHRONOMETRICAL Chron`o*met"ric, Chron`o*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. chronométrique.]  Pertaining to a chronometer; measured by a chronometer. 

CHRONOMETRY:  The art of measuring time; the measuring of time by periods or divisions. 

CHRONOPHER:  An instrument signaling the correct time to distant points by electricity. 

CHRONOPHOTOGRAPH:  One of a set of photographs of a moving object, taken for the purpose of recording and exhibiting successive phases of the motion. --Chron`o*pho*tog"ra*phy, n. 

CHRONOSCOPE:  An instrument for measuring minute intervals of time; used in determining the velocity of projectiles, the duration of short-lived luminous phenomena, etc. 

CHRYSALID:  Pertaining to a chrysalis; resembling a chrysalis. 

CHRYSALID:  See Chrysalis. 

CHRYSALIS:  The pupa state of certain insects, esp. of butterflies, from which the perfect insect emerges. See Pupa, and Aurelia (a). 

CHRYSANILINE:  A yellow substance obtained as a by-product in the manufacture of rosaniline. It dyes silk a fine golden-yellow color. 

CHRYSANTHEMUM:  A genus of composite plants, mostly perennial, and of many species including the many varieties of garden chrysanthemums (annual and perennial), and also the feverfew and the oxeye daisy. 

CHRYSAROBIN:  A bitter, yellow substance forming the essential constituent of Goa powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid proper; hence formerly called also chrysphanic acid. 

CHRYSAURIN:  An orange-colored dyestuff, of artificial production. 

CHRYSELEPHANTINE:  Composed of, or adorned with, gold and ivory.  Note: The chryselephantine statues of the Greeks were built up with inferior materials, veneered, as it were, with ivory for the flesh, and gold decorated with color for the hair and garments. 

CHRYSENE:  One of the higher aromatic hydrocarbons of coal tar, allied to napthalene and anthracene. It is a white crystalline substance, C18H12, of strong blue fluorescence, but generally colored yellow by impurities. 

CHRYSOBERYL:  A mineral, found in crystals, of a yellow to green or brown color, and consisting of aluminia and glucina. It is very hard, and is often used as a gem. 

CHRYSOCHLORE:  A South African mole of the genus Chrysochloris; the golden mole, the fur of which reflects brilliant metallic hues of green and gold. 

CHRYSOCOLLA:  A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring massive, of a blue or greenish blue color. 

CHRYSOGEN:  A yellow crystalline substance extracted from crude anthracene. 

CHRYSOIDINE:  An artificial, yellow, crystalline dye, C6H5N2.C6H3(NH2)2. Also, one of a group of dyestuffs resembling chrysoïdine proper. 

CHRYSOLITE:  A mineral, composed of silica, magnesia, and iron, of a yellow to green color. It is common in certain volcanic rocks; -- called also olivine and peridot. Sometimes used as a gem. The name was also early used for yellow varieties of tourmaline and topaz. 

CHRYSOLOGY:  That branch of political economy which relates to the production of wealth. 

CHRYSOPA:  A genus of neuropterous insects. See Lacewing. 

CHRYSOPHANE:  A glucoside extracted from rhubarb as a bitter, yellow, crystalline powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid on decomposition. 

CHRYSOPHANIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, or resembling, chrysophane. Chrysophanic acid (Chem.), a yellow crystalline substance extracted from rhubarb, yellow dock, sienna, chrysarobin, etc., and shown to be a derivative of an anthracene. It is used in the treatment of skin diseases; -- called also rhein, rheic acid, rhubarbarin, etc. 

CHRYSOPRASE:  An apple-green variety of chalcedony, colored by nickel. It has a dull flinty luster, and is sometimes used in jewelry. 

CHRYSOPRASUS:  See Chrysoprase. Rev. xxi. 20. 

CHRYSOSPERM:  The seed of gold; a means of creating gold. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

CHTHONIAN:  Designating, or pertaining to, gods or spirits of the underworld; esp., relating to the underworld gods of the Greeks, whose worship is widely considered as more primitive in form than that of the Olympian gods. The characteristics of chthonian worship are propitiatory and magical rites and generalized or euphemistic names of the deities, which are supposed to have been primarily ghosts. 

CHTHONIC:  Pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, chthonic religions. [The] chthonic character of the wife of Zeus. Max Müller.  CHTHONOPHAGIA; CHTHONOPHAGY Chthon`o*pha"gi*a, Chtho*noph"a*gy, n. Etym: [NL. chthonophagia; Gr.  A disease characterized by an irresistible desire to eat earth, observed in some parts of the southern United States, the West Indies, etc. 

CHUB:  A species to fresh-water fish of the Cyprinidæ or Carp family. The common European species is Leuciscus cephalus; the cheven. In America the name is applied to various fishes of the same family, of the genera Semotilus, Squalius, Ceratichthys, etc., and locally to several very different fishes, as the tautog, black bass, etc. Chub mackerel (Zoöl.), a species of mackerel (Scomber colias) in some years found in abundance on the Atlantic coast, but absent in others; -- called also bull mackerel, thimble-eye, and big-eye mackerel.  -- Chub sucker (Zoöl.), a fresh-water fish of the United States (Erimyzon sucetta); -- called also creekfish. 

CHUBBED:  Chubby. [R.] H. Brooke. 

CHUBBEDNESS:  The state of being chubby. 

CHUBBY:  Like a chub; plump, short, and thick. "Chubby faces." I. Taylor.  CHUB-FACED Chub"-faced`, a.  Having a plump, short face. 

CHUCK:  To call, as a hen her chickens. Dryden. 

CHUCK:  To place in a chuck, or hold by means of a chuck, as in turning; to bore or turn (a hole) in a revolving piece held in a chuck. 

CHUCK:  A contrivance or machine fixed to the mandrel of a lathe, for holding a tool or the material to be operated upon.  Chuck farthing, a play in which a farthing is pitched into a hole; pitch farthing.  -- Chuck hole, a deep hole in a wagon rut.  -- Elliptic chuck, a chuck having a silder and an eccentric circle, which, as the work turns round, give it a sliding motion across the center which generates an ellipse. Knight. 

CHUCK:  A game played with chucks, in which one or more are tossed up and caught; jackstones. [Scot.] 

CHUCK:  A piece of the backbone of an animal, from between the neck and the collar bone, with the adjoining parts, cut for cooking; as, a chuck steak; a chuck roast. [Colloq.] 

CHUCKLE:  A short, suppressed laugh; the expression of satisfaction, exultation, or derision. 

CHUCKLE:  To laugh in a suppressed or broken manner, as expressing inward satisfaction, exultation, or derision. 

CHUCKLEHEAD:  A person with a large head; a numskull; a dunce. [Low] Knowles. 

CHUCKLEHEADED:  Having a large head; thickheaded; dull; stupid. Smart.  CHUCK-WILL'S-WIDOW Chuck`-Will's-wid"ow, n. (Zool.)  A species of goatsucker (Antrostomus Carolinensis), of the southern United States; -- so called from its note. 

CHUD:  To champ; to bite. [Obs.] A. Stafford. 

CHUET:  Minced meat. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CHUFA:  A sedgelike plant (Cyperus esculentus) producing edible tubers, native about the Mediterranean, now cultivated in many regions; the earth almond. 

CHUFF:  A coarse or stupid fellow. Shak. 

CHUFF:  Stupid; churlish. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

CHUFFILY:  Clownishly; surlily. 

CHUFFINESS:  The quality of being chuffy. 

CHULAN:  The fragrant flowers of the Chloranthus inconspicuus, used in China for perfuming tea. 

CHUM:  A roommate, especially in a college or university; an old and intimate friend. 

CHUM:  To occupy a chamber with another; as, to chum together at college. [U. S.] 

CHUM:  Chopped pieces of fish used as bait. [U. S.] 

CHUMP:  A short, thick, heavy piece of wood. Morton. Chump end, the thick end; as, the chump end of a joint of meat. Dickens. 

CHUNAM:  Quicklime; also, plaster or mortar. [India] Whitworth. 

CHUNK:  A short, thick piece of anything. [Colloq. U. S. & Prov. Eng.] 

CHUNKY:  Short and thick. [U. S.] Kane. 

CHUPATTY:  A kind of griddlecake of unleavened bread, used among the natives of India. [Anglo-Indian]  CHUPRASSY; CHUPRASSIE Chu*pras"sy Chu*pras"sie, n. [Hind. chaprassi, fr. chapras badge.]  A messenger or servant wearing an official badge. [Anglo- Indian] 

CHURCH:  To bless according to a prescribed form, or to unite with in publicly returning thanks in church, as after deliverance from the dangers of childbirth; as, the churching of women.  CHURCH-ALE Church"-ale`, n.  A church or parish festival (as in commemoration of the dedication of a church), at which much ale was used. Wright. Nares.  CHURCH-BENCH Church"-bench`, n.  A seat in the porch of a church. Shak. 

CHURCHDOM:  The institution, government, or authority of a church. [R.] Bp. Pearson. 

CHURCHGOER:  One who attends church. 

CHURCHGOING:  Churchyard. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CHURCHISM:  Strict adherence to the forms or principles of some church organization; sectarianism. 

CHURCHLESS:  Without a church. T. Fuller. 

CHURCHLIKE:  Befitting a church or a churchman; becoming to a clergyman. Shak. 

CHURCHLINESS:  Regard for the church. 

CHURCHLY:  Pertaining to, or suitable for, the church; ecclesiastical. 

CHURCHMANLY:  Pertaining to, or becoming, a churchman. Milman. 

CHURCHMANSHIP:  The state or quality of being a churchman; attachment to the church.  CHURCH MODES Church" modes`. (Mus.)  The modes or scales used in ancient church music. See Gregorian. 

CHURCHSHIP:  State of being a church. South. 

CHURCHWARDENSHIP:  The office of a churchwarden. 

CHURCHY:  Relating to a church; unduly fond of church forms. [Colloq.] 

CHURCHYARD:  The ground adjoining a church, in which the dead are buried; a cemetery. Like graves in the holy churchyard. Shak.  Syn.  -- Burial place; burying ground; graveyard; necropolis; cemetery; God's acre. 

CHURL:  Churlish; rough; selfish. [Obs.] Ford. 

CHURLISHLY:  In a churlish manner. 

CHURLISHNESS:  Rudeness of manners or temper; lack of kindness or courtesy. 

CHURLY:  Rude; churlish; violent. Longfellow.  CHURME; CHIRM Churme, Chirm, n. Etym: [See Chirm.]  Clamor, or confused noise; buzzing. [Obs.] The churme of a thousand taunts and reproaches. Bacon. 

CHURN:  A vessel in which milk or cream is stirred, beaten, or otherwise agitated (as by a plunging or revolving dasher) in order to separete the oily globules from the other parts, and obtain butter. 

CHURN:  To perform the operation of churning. 

CHURR:  A vibrant or whirring noise such as that made by some insects, as the cockchafer, or by some birds, as the nightjar, the partridge, etc. 

CHURR:  To make a churr, as a cockchafer.  That's the churring of the nightjar. Hall Caine. 

CHURR:  To utter by churring. 

CHURRUS:  A powerfully narcotic and intoxicating gum resin which exudes from the flower heads, seeds, etc., of Indian hemp. 

CHURRWORM:  An insect that turns about nimbly; the mole cricket; -- called also fan cricket. Johnson. 

CHUSE:  See Choose. [Obs.] 

CHUTE:  A warm or spicy condiment or pickle made in India, compounded of various vegetable substances, sweets, acids, etc. 

CHYLACEOUS:  Possessed of the properties of chyle; consisting of chyle. 

CHYLAQUEOUS:  Consisting of chyle much diluted with water; -- said of a liquid which forms the circulating fluid of some inferior animals. 

CHYLE:  A milky fluid containing the fatty matter of the food in a state of emulsion, or fine mechanical division; formed from chyme by the action of the intestinal juices. It is absorbed by the lacteals, and conveyed into the blood by the thoracic duct. 

CHYLIFACTION:  The act or process by which chyle is formed from food in animal bodies; chylification, -- a digestive process. 

CHYLIFACTIVE:  Producing, or converting into, chyle; having the power to form chyle. 

CHYLIFEROUS:  [Chyle + -ferous: cf. F. chylifère.] (Physiol.) Transmitting or conveying chyle; as, chyliferous vessels. 

CHYLIFIC:  Chylifactive. 

CHYLIFICATION:  The formation of chyle. See Chylifaction. 

CHYLIFICATORY:  Chylifactive. 

CHYLIFY:  To make chyle of; to be converted into chyle. 

CHYLOPOETIC:  Concerned in the formation of chyle; as, the chylopoetic organs. 

CHYLOUS:  Consisting of, or similar to, chyle. 

CHYLURIA:  A morbid condition in which the urine contains chyle or fatty matter, giving it a milky appearance. 

CHYME:  The pulpy mass of semi-digested food in the small intestines just after its passage from the stomach. It is separated in the intestines into chyle and excrement. See Chyle.  CHYMIC; CHYMIST; CHYMISTRY Chym"ic, Chym"ist, Chym"is*try. [Obs.]  See Chemic, Chemist, Chemistry. 

CHYMIFEROUS:  Bearing or containing chyme. 

CHYMIFICATION:  The conversion of food into chyme by the digestive action of gastric juice. 

CHYMIFY:  To form into chyme. 

CHYMOUS:  Of or pertaining to chyme. 

CHYOMETER:  An instrument for measuring liquids. It consists of a piston moving in a tube in which is contained the liquid, the quantity expelled being indicated by the graduation upon the piston rod. 

CIBARIOUS:  Pertaining to food; edible. Johnson. 

CIBATION:  The process or operation of feeding the contents of the crucilbe with fresh material. B. Jonson. 

CIBOL:  A perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum), sometimes called Welsh onion. Its fistular leaves areused in cookery. 

CIBORIUM:  A canopy usually standing free and supported on four columns, covering the high altar, or, very rarely, a secondary altar.  2. (R. C. Ch.)  The coffer or case in which the host is kept; the pyx. 

CICADA:  Any species of the genus Cicada. They are large hemipterous insects, with nearly transparent wings. The male makes a shrill sound by pecular organs in the under side of the abdomen, consisting of a pair of stretched membranes, acted upon by powerful muscles. A noted American species (C. septendecim) is called the seventeen year locust. Another common species is the dogday cicada. 

CICALA:  A cicada. See Cicada. "At eve a dry cicala sung." Tennison. 

CICATRICE:  A cicatrix. 

CICATRICIAL:  Relating to, or having the character of, a cicatrix. Dunglison. 

CICATRICLE:  The germinating point in the embryo of a seed; the point in the yolk of an egg at which development begins. 

CICATRISIVE:  Tending to promote the formation of a cicatrix; good for healing of a wound. 

CICATRIX:  The pellicle which forms over a wound or breach of continuity and completes the process of healing in the latter, and which subsequently contracts and becomes white, forming the scar. 

CICATRIZANT:  A medicine or application that promotes the healing of a sore or wound, or the formation of a cicatrix. 

CICATRIZATION:  The process of forming a cicatrix, or the state of being cicatrized. 

CICATRIZE:  To heal or induce the formation of a cicatrix in, as in wounded or ulcerated flesh. Wiseman. 

CICATRIZE:  To heal; to have a new skin. 

CICATROSE:  Full of scars. Craig. 

CICELY:  Any one of several umbelliferous plants, of the genera Myrrhis, Osmorrhiza, etc. 

CICERO:  Pica type; -- so called by French printers. 

CICERONE:  One who shows strangers the curiosities of a place; a guide. Every glib and loquacious hireling who shows strangers about their picture galleries, palaces, and ruins, is termed by them [the Italians] a cicerone, or a Cicero. Trench. 

CICERONIAN:  Resembling Cicero in style or action; eloquent. 

CICERONIANISM:  Imitation of, or resemblance to, the style or action Cicero; a Ciceronian phrase or expression. "Great study in Ciceronianism, the chief abuse of Oxford." Sir P. Sidney. 

CICHORACEOUS:  Belonging to, or resembling, a suborder of composite plants of which the chicory (Cichorium) is the type.  CICH-PEA Cich"-pea`, n.  The chick-pea. Holland. 

CICISBEISM:  The state or conduct of a cicisbeo. 

CICLATOUN:  A costly cloth, of uncertain material, used in the Middle Ages. [Obs.] [Written also checklaton, chekelatoun.] His robe was of ciclatoun, That coste many a Jane. Chaucer. 

CICURATE:  To tame. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CICURATION:  The act of taming. [Obs.] Ray. 

CICUTA:  a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the water hemlock or cowbane is best known.  Note: The name cicuta is sometimes erroneously applied to Conium maculatum, or officinal hemlock. 

CICUTOXIN:  The active principle of the water hemlock (Cicuta) extracted as a poisonous gummy substance. 

CIDER:  The expressed juice of apples. It is used as a beverage, for making vinegar, and for other purposes.  Note: Cider was formerly used to signify the juice of other fruits, and other kinds of strong liquor, but was not applied to wine. Cider brandy, a kind of brandy distilled from cider.  -- Cider mill, a mill in which cider is made.  -- Cider press, the press of a cider mill. 

CIDERIST:  A maker of cider. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

CIDERKIN:  A kind of weak cider made by steeping the refuse pomace in water. Ciderkin is made for common drinking, and supplies the place of small beer. Mortimer.  CI-DEVANT Ci`-de*vant", a. Etym: [F., hitherto, formerly.]  Former; previous; of times gone by; as, a cidevant governor. 

CIERGE:  A wax candle used in religous rites. 

CIGAR:  A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking. Cigar fish (Zoöl.), a fish (Decapterus punctatus), allied to the mackerel, found on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. 

CIGARETTE:  A little cigar; a little fine tobacco rolled in paper for smoking. 

CILIA:  The eyelashes.  2. (Biol.)  Small, generally microscopic, vibrating appendages lining certain organs, as the air passages of the higher animals, and in the lower animals often covering also the whole or a part of the exterior. They are also found on some vegetable organisms. In the Infusoria, and many larval forms, they are locomotive organs.  3. (Bot.)  Hairlike processes, commonly marginal and forming a fringe like the eyelash.  4. (Zoöl.)  Small, vibratory, swimming organs, somewhat resembling true cilia, as those of Ctenophora. 

CILIARY:  Pertaining to the cilia, or eyelashes. Also applied to special parts of the eye itself; as, the ciliary processes of the choroid coat; the ciliary muscle, etc.  2. (Biol.)  Pertaining to or connected with the cilia in animal or vegetable organisms; as, ciliary motion. 

CILIATA:  One of the orders of Infusoria, characterized by having cilia. In some species the cilia cover the body generally, in others they form a band around the mouth.  CILIATE; CILIATED Cil"i*ate, Cil"i*a`ted, a.  Provided with, or surrounded by, cilia; as, a ciliate leaf; endowed with vibratory motion; as, the ciliated epithelium of the windpipe. 

CILICE:  A kind of haircloth undergarment. Southey. 

CILICIAN:  Of or pertaining to Cilicia in Asia Minor.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Cilicia. 

CILICIOUS:  Made, or consisting, of hair. [Obs.] A Cilicious or sackcloth habit. Sir T. Browne.  CILIFORM; CILIIFORM Cil"i*form, Cil"i*i*form`, a. Etym: [Cilium + -form]  Having the form of cilia; very fine or slender. 

CILIOGRADE:  Moving by means of cilia, or cilialike organs; as, the ciliograde Medusæ. 

CILIUM:  See Cilia. 

CILL:  See Sill., n. a foundation. 

CILLOSIS:  A spasmodic trembling of the upper eyelid. 

CIMA:  A kind of molding. See Cyma. 

CIMAR:  See Simar. 

CIMBAL:  A kind of confectionery or cake. [Obs.] Nares. 

CIMBIA:  A fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if to strengthen it. [Written also cimia.] 

CIMBRIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Cimbri.  -- n.  One of the Cimbri. See Cimbric. 

CIMBRIC:  Pertaining to the Cimbri, an ancient tribe inhabiting Northern Germany.  -- n.  The language of the Cimbri. 

CIMELIARCH:  A superintendent or keeper of a church's valuables; a churchwarden. [Obs.] Bailey. 

CIMETER:  See Scimiter. 

CIMEX:  A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the best known example. See Bedbug. 

CIMIA:  See Cimbia. 

CIMISS:  The bedbug. [Obs.] Wright. 

CIMOLITE:  A soft, earthy, clayey mineral, of whitish or grayish color. 

CINCHONA:  A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru and adjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producing a medicinal bark of great value.  2. (Med.)  The bark of any species of cinchona containing three per cent. or more of bitter febrifuge alkaloids; Peruvian bark; Jesuits' bark. 

CINCHONACEOUS:  Allied or pertaining to cinchona, or to the plants that produce it. 

CINCHONIC:  Belonging to, or obtained from, cinchona. Mayne. 

CINCHONIDINE:  One of the quinine group of alkaloids, found especially in red cinchona bark. It is a white crystalline substance, C19H22N2O, with a bitter taste and qualities similar to, but weaker than, quinine; -- sometimes called also cinchonidia. 

CINCHONINE:  One of the quinine group of alkaloids isomeric with and resembling cinchonidine; -- called also cinchonia. 

CINCHONISM:  A condition produced by the excessive or long-continued use of quinine, and marked by deafness, roaring in the ears, vertigo, etc. 

CINCHONIZE:  To produce cinchonism in; to poison with quinine or with cinchona.  CINCINNATI EPOCH Cin`cin*na"ti ep"och. (Geol.)  An epoch at the close of the American lower Silurian system. The rocks are well developed near Cincinnati, Ohio. The group includes the Hudson River and Lorraine shales of New york. 

CINCINNUS:  A form of monochasium in which the lateral branches arise alternately on opposite sides of the false axis; -- called also scorpioid cyme. --Cin*cin"nal (#), a. 

CINCTURE:  The fillet, listel, or band next to the apophyge at the extremity of the shaft of a column. 

CINCTURED:  Having or wearing a cincture or gridle. 

CINDERY:  Resembling, or composed of, cinders; full of cinders. 

CINEFACTION:  Cineration; reduction to ashes. [Obs.]  CINEMATIC; CINEMATICAL Cin`e*mat"ic, Cin`e*mat"ic*al, a.  See Kinematic. 

CINEMATICS:  See Kinematics. 

CINEMATOGRAPH:  A machine, combining magic lantern and kinetoscope features, for projecting on a screen a series of pictures, moved rapidly (25 to 50 a second) and intermittently before an objective lens, and producing by persistence of vision the illusion of continuous motion; a moving-picture machine; also, any of several other machines or devices producing moving pictorial effects. Other common names for the cinematograph are animatograph, biograph, bioscope, electrograph, electroscope, kinematograph, kinetoscope, veriscope, vitagraph, vitascope, zoögyroscope, zoöpraxiscope, etc.  The cinematograph, invented by Edison in 1894, is the result of the introduction of the flexible film into photography in place of glass. Encyc. Brit.  2.  A camera for taking chronophotographs for exhibition by the instrument described above. 

CINEMATOGRAPHER:  One who exhibits moving pictures or who takes chronophotographs by the cinematograph. -- Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic (#), a. -- Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv. 

CINEMOGRAPH:  An integrating anemometer. 

CINERACEOUS:  Like ashes; ash-colored; cinerous. 

CINERARIA:  A Linnæan genus of free-flowering composite plants, mostly from South Africa. Several species are cultivated for ornament. 

CINERARY:  Pertaining to ashes; containing ashes. Cinerary urns, vessels used by the ancients to preserve the ashes of the dead when burned. 

CINERATION:  The reducing of anything to ashes by combustion; cinefaction. 

CINEREOUS:  Like ashes; ash-colored; grayish. 

CINERESCENT:  Somewhat cinereous; of a color somewhat resembling that of wood ashes. 

CINERITIOUS:  Like ashes; having the color of ashes, -- as the cortical substance of the brain. 

CINERULENT:  Full of ashes. [Obs.] 

CINGALESE:  A native or natives of Ceylon descended from its primitive inhabitants; also (sing.),  the language of the Cingalese.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to the Cingalese. [Written also Singhalese.]  Note: Ceylonese is applied to the inhabitants of the island in general. 

CINGLE:  A girth. [R.] See Surcingle. 

CINNABAR:  Red sulphide of mercury, occurring in brilliant red crystals, and also in red or brown amorphous masses. It is used in medicine.  2. The artificial red sulphide of mercury used as a pigment; vermilion. Cinnabar Græcorum (. Etym: [L. Graecorum, gen. pl., of the Greeks.] (Med.) Same as Dragon's blood.  -- Green cinnabar, a green pigment consisting of the oxides of cobalt and zinc subjected to the action of fire.  -- Hepatic cinnabar (Min.), an impure cinnabar of a liver-brown color and submetallic luster. 

CINNABARINE:  Pertaining to, or resembling, cinnabar; consisting of cinnabar, or containing it; as, cinnabarine sand. 

CINNAMENE:  Styrene (which was formerly called cinnamene because obtained from cinnamic acid). See Styrene. 

CINNAMIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, cinnamon. Cinnamic acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline, odorless substance. C6H5.C2H2C2H2.CO2H, formerly obtained from storax and oil of cinnamon, now made from certain benzene derivatives in large quantities, and used for the artificial production of indigo. 

CINNAMOMIC:  See Cinnamic. 

CINNAMONE:  A yellow crystalline substance, (C6H5.C2H2)2CO, the ketone of cinnamic acid. 

CINNAMYL:  The hypothetical radical, (C6H5.C2H2)2C, of cinnamic compounds. [Formerly written also cinnamule.] 

CINNOLINE:  A nitrogenous organic base, C8H6N2, analogous to quinoline, obtained from certain complex diazo compounds. 

CINQUE:  Five; the number five in dice or cards. 

CINQUECENTO:  The sixteenth century, when applied to Italian art or literature; as, the sculpture of the Cinquecento; Cinquecento style. 

CINQUEFOIL:  The name of several different species of the genus Potentilla; -- also called five-finger, because of the resemblance of its leaves to the fingers of the hand.  2. (Arch.)  An ornamental foliation having five points or cups, used in windows, panels, etc. Gwilt. Marsh cinquefoil, the Potentilla palustris, a plant with purple flowers which grows in fresh-water marshes.  CINQUE-PACE Cinque"-pace`, n. Etym: [Cinque + pace.]  A lively dance (called also galliard), the steps of which were regulated by the number five. [Obs.] Nares. Shak.  CINQUE PORTS Cinque" Ports`. Etym: [Cinque + port.] (Eng. Hist.)  Five English ports, to which peculiar privileges were anciently accorded; -- viz., Hastings, Romney, Hythe, Dover, and Sandwich; afterwards increased by the addition of Winchelsea, Rye, and some minor places. Baron of the Cinque Ports. See under Baron.  CINQUE-SPOTTED Cinque"-spot`ted, a.  Five-spotted. [R.] Shak. 

CINTER:  See Center. 

CINURA:  The group of Thysanura which includes Lepisma and allied forms; the bristletails. See Bristletail, and Lepisma. 

CION:  See Scion. The cion overruleth the stock; and the stock is but passive, and giveth aliment, but no motion, to the graft. Bacon. 

CIPHER:  A character [0] which, standing by itself, expresses nothing, but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases its value tenfold.  2. One who, or that which, has no weight or influence. Here he was a mere cipher. W. Irving.  3. A character in general, as a figure or letter. [Obs.] This wisdom began to be written in ciphers and characters and letters bearing the forms of creatures. Sir W. Raleigh.  4. A combination or interweaving of letters, as the initials of a name; a device; a monogram; as, a painter's cipher, an engraver's cipher, etc. The cut represents the initials N. W.  5. A private alphabet, system of characters, or other mode of writing, contrived for the safe transmission of secrets; also, a writing in such characters. His father . . . engaged him when he was very young to write all his letters to England in cipher. Bp. Burnet. Cipher key, a key to assist in reading writings in cipher. 

CIPHER:  Of the nature of a cipher; of no weight or influence. "Twelve cipher bishops." Milton. 

CIPHER:  To use figures in a mathematical process; to do sums in arithmetic. "T was certain he could write and cipher too. Goldsmith. 

CIPHERER:  One who ciphers. 

CIPHERHOOD:  Nothingness. [R.] Goodwin. 

CIPOLIN:  A whitish marble, from Rome, containiing pale greenish zones. It consists of calcium carbonate, with zones and cloudings of talc. 

CIPPUS:  A small, low pillar, square or round, commonly having an inscription, used by the ancients for various purposes, as for indicating the distances of places, for a landmark, for sepulchral inscriptions, etc. Gwilt. 

CIRC:  An amphitheatrical circle for sports; a circus. [R.] T. Warton. 

CIRCAR:  A district, or part of a province. See Sircar. [India] 

CIRCASSIAN:  Of or pertaining to Circassia, in Asia.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Circassia. 

CIRCEAN:  Having the characteristics of Circe, daughter of Sol and Perseis, a mythological enchantress, who first charmed her victims and then changed them to the forms of beasts; pleasing, but noxious; as, a Circean draught.  CIRCENSIAL; CIRCENSIAN Cir*cen"sial, Cir*cen"sian, a. Etym: [L. Circensis, ludi Circenses, the games in the Circus Maximus.]  Of or pertaining to, or held in, the Circus, In Rome. The pleasure of the Circensian shows. Holyday. 

CIRCINAL:  Circinate. 

CIRCINATE:  Rolled together downward, the tip occupying the center; -- a term used in reference to foliation or leafing, as in ferns. Gray. 

CIRCINATE:  To make a circle around; to encompass. [Obs.] Bailey. 

CIRCLE:  An instrument of observation, the graduated limb of which consists of an entire circle.  Note: When it is fixed to a wall in an observatory, it is called a mural circle; when mounted with a telescope on an axis and in Y's, in the plane of the meridian, a meridian or transit circle; when involving the principle of reflection, like the sextant, a reflecting circle; and when that of repeating an angle several times continuously along the graduated limb, a repeating circle.  4. A round body; a sphere; an orb. It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth. Is. xi. 22.  5. Compass; circuit; inclosure. In the circle of this forest. Shak.  6. A company assembled, or conceived to assemble, about a central point of interest, or bound by a common tie; a class or division of society; a coterie; a set. As his name gradually became known, the circle of his acquaintance widened. Macaulay.  7. A circular group of persons; a ring.  8. A series ending where it begins, and repeating itself. Thus in a circle runs the peasant's pain. Dryden.  9. (Logic)  A form of argument in which two or more unproved statements are used to prove each other; inconclusive reasoning. That heavy bodies descend by gravity; and, again, that gravity is a quality whereby a heavy body descends, is an impertinent circle and teaches nothing. Glanvill.  10. Indirect form of words; circumlocution. [R.] Has he given the lie, In circle, or oblique, or semicircle. J. Fletcher.  11. A territorial division or district.  Note: The Circles of the Holy Roman Empire, ten in number, were those principalities or provinces which had seats in the German Diet. Azimuth circle. See under Azimuth.  -- Circle of altitude (Astron.), a circle parallel to the horizon, having its pole in the zenith; an almucantar.  -- Circle of curvature. See Osculating circle of a curve (Below).  -- Circle of declination. See under Declination.  -- Circle of latitude. (a) (Astron.) A great circle perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic, passing through its poles. (b) (Spherical Projection) A small circle of the sphere whose plane is perpendicular to the axis.  -- Circles of longitude, lesser circles parallel to the ecliptic, diminishing as they recede from it.  -- Circle of perpetual apparition, at any given place, the boundary of that space around the elevated pole, within which the stars never set. Its distance from the pole is equal to the latitude of the place.  -- Circle of perpetual occultation, at any given place, the boundary of the space around the depressed pole, within which the stars never rise.  -- Circle of the sphere, a circle upon the surface of the sphere, called a great circle when its plane passes through the center of the sphere; in all other cases, a small circle.  -- Diurnal circle. See under Diurnal.  -- Dress circle, a gallery in a theater, generally the one containing the prominent and more expensive seats.  -- Druidical circles (Eng. Antiq.), a popular name for certain ancient inclosures formed by rude stones circularly arranged, as at Stonehenge, near Salisbury.  -- Family circle, a gallery in a theater, usually one containing inexpensive seats.  -- Horary circles (Dialing), the lines on dials which show the hours.  -- Osculating circle of a curve (Geom.), the circle which touches the curve at some point in the curve, and close to the point more nearly coincides with the curve than any other circle. This circle is used as a measure of the curvature of the curve at the point, and hence is called circle of curvature.  -- Pitch circle. See under Pitch.  -- Vertical circle, an azimuth circle.  -- Voltaic circle or circuit. See under Circuit.  -- To square the circle. See under Square.  Syn.  -- Ring; circlet; compass; circuit; inclosure. 

CIRCLE:  To move circularly; to form a circle; to circulate. Thy name shall circle round the gaping through. Byron. 

CIRCLED:  Having the form of a circle; round. "Monthly changes in her circled orb." Shak. 

CIRCLER:  A mean or inferior poet, perhaps from his habit of wandering around as a stroller; an itinerant poet. Also, a name given to the cyclic poets. See under Cyclic, a. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

CIRCOCELE:  See Cirsocele. 

CIRCUIT:  To move in a circle; to go round; to circulate. [Obs.] J. Philips. 

CIRCUIT:  To travel around. [Obs.] "Having circuited the air." T. Warton. 

CIRCUITEER:  A circuiter. Pope. 

CIRCUITER:  One who travels a circuit, as a circuit judge. [R.] R. Whitlock. 

CIRCUITION:  The act of going round; circumlocution. [R.] 

CIRCUITOUS:  Going round in a circuit; roundabout; indirect; as, a circuitous road; a circuitous manner of accompalishing an end.  -- Cir*cu"i*tous*ly, adv.  -- Cir*cu"i*tous*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Tortuous; winding; sinuous; serpentine. 

CIRCUITY:  A going round in a circle; a course not direct; a roundabout way of proceeding. 

CIRCULABLE:  That may be circulated. 

CIRCULARITY:  The quality or state of being circular; a circular form. 

CIRCULARLY:  In a circular manner. 

CIRCULARY:  Circular; illogical. [Obs. & .] "Cross and circulary speeches." Hooker. 

CIRCULATE:  To cause to pass from place to place, or from person to person; to spread; as, to circulate a report; to circulate bills of credit. Circulating pump. See under Pump.  Syn.  -- To spread; diffuse; propagate; disseminate. 

CIRCULATION:  The movement of the blood in the blood-vascular system, by which it is brought into close relations with almost every living elementary constituent. Also, the movement of the sap in the vessels and tissues of plants. 

CIRCULATIVE:  Promoting circulation; circulating. [R.] Coleridge. 

CIRCULATOR:  One who, or that which, circulates. 

CIRCULATORIOUS:  Travelling from house to house or from town to town; itinerant. [Obs.] "Circulatorious jugglers." Barrow. 

CIRCULATORY:  Subserving the purposes of circulation; as, circulatory organs; of or pertaining to the organs of circulation; as, circulatory diseases. 

CIRCULATORY:  A chemical vessel consisting of two portions unequally exposed to the heat of the fire, and with connecting pipes or passages, through which the fluid rises from the overheated portion, and descends from the relatively colder, maintaining a circulation. 

CIRCULET:  A circlet. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CIRCULINE:  Proceeding in a circle; circular. [Obs.] "With motion circuline". Dr. H. More.  CIRCUM- Cir"cum-. Etym: [Akin to circle, circus.]  A Latin preposition, used as a prefix in many English words, and signifying around or about. 

CIRCUMAGITATE:  To agitate on all sides. Jer. Taylor. 

CIRCUMAMBAGE:  A roundabout or indirect course; indirectness. [Obs.] S. Richardson. 

CIRCUMAMBIENCY:  The act of surrounding or encompassing. Sir T. Browne. 

CIRCUMAMBIENT:  Surrounding; inclosing or being on all sides; encompassing. "The circumambient heaven." J. Armstrong. 

CIRCUMAMBULATE:  To walk round about.  -- Cir`cum*am`bu*la"tion, n. 

CIRCUMBENDIBUS:  A roundabout or indirect way. [Jocular] Goldsmith. 

CIRCUMCENTER:  The center of a circle that circumscribes a triangle. 

CIRCUMCISE:  To purify spiritually. 

CIRCUMCISER:  One who performs circumcision. Milton. 

CIRCUMCLUSION:  Act of inclosing on all sides. [R.] 

CIRCUMCURSATION:  The act of running about; also, rambling language. [Obs.] Barrow. 

CIRCUMDENUDATION:  Denudation around or in the neighborhood of an object. Hills of circumdenudation, hills which have been produced by surface erosion; the elevations which have been left, after denudation of a mass of high ground. Jukes. 

CIRCUMDUCE:  To declare elapsed, as the time allowed for introducing evidence. Sir W. Scott. 

CIRCUMDUCT:  To contravene; to nullify; as, to circumduct acts of judicature. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

CIRCUMDUCTION:  The rotation of a limb round an imaginary axis, so as to describe a concial surface. 

CIRCUMESOPHAGAL:  Surrounding the esophagus; -- in Zool. said of the nerve commissures and ganglia of arthropods and mollusks. 

CIRCUMESOPHAGEAL:  Circumesophagal. 

CIRCUMFER:  To bear or carry round. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CIRCUMFERENCE:  To include in a circular space; to bound. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CIRCUMFERENTIAL:  Pertaining to the circumference; encompassing; encircling; circuitous. Parkhurst. 

CIRCUMFERENTIALLY:  So as to surround or encircle. 

CIRCUMFLANT:  Blowing around. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

CIRCUMFLECTION:  See Circumflexion. 

CIRCUMFLEX:  To mark or pronounce with a circumflex. Walker. 

CIRCUMFLEX:  Curved circularly; -- applied to several arteries of the hip and thigh, to arteries, veins, and a nerve of the shoulder, and to other parts. 

CIRCUMFLUENCE:  A flowing round on all sides; an inclosing with a fluid.  CIRCUMFLUENT; CIRCUMFLUOUS Cir*cum"flu*ent, Cir*cum"flu*ous, a. Etym: [L. circumfluere, p. pr. of circumfluere; circum + fluere to flow; also L. circumfluus.]  Flowing round; surrounding in the manner of a fluid. "The deep, circumfluent waves." Pope.  CIRCUMFORANEAN; CIRCUMFORANEOUS Cir`cum*fo*ra"ne*an, Cir`cum*fo*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. circumforaneus found in markets; circum + forum a market place.]  Going about or abroad; walking or wandering from house to house. Addison. 

CIRCUMFULGENT:  Shining around or about. 

CIRCUMFUSE:  To pour round; to spread round. His army circumfused on either wing. Milton. 

CIRCUMFUSILE:  Capable of being poured or spread round. "Circumfusile gold." Pope. 

CIRCUMFUSION:  The act of pouring or spreading round; the state of being spread round. Swift. 

CIRCUMGESTATION:  The act or process of carrying about. [Obs.] Circumgestation of the eucharist to be adored. Jer. Taylor. 

CIRCUMGYRATE:  To roll or turn round; to cause to perform a rotary or circular motion. Ray. 

CIRCUMGYRATION:  The act of turning, rolling, or whirling round. A certain turbulent and irregular circumgyration. Holland. 

CIRCUMGYRATORY:  Moving in a circle; turning round. Hawthorne. 

CIRCUMGYRE:  To circumgyrate. [Obs.] 

CIRCUMINCESSION:  The reciprocal existence in each other of the three persons of the Trinity. 

CIRCUMJACENCE:  Condition of being circumjacent, or of bordering ou every side. 

CIRCUMJACENT:  Lying round; borderong on every side. T. Fuller. 

CIRCUMJOVIAL:  One of the moons or satellites of the planet Jupiter. [Obs.] Derham. 

CIRCUMLITTORAL:  Adjointing the shore. 

CIRCUMLOCUTION:  The use of many words to express an idea that might be expressed by few; indirect or roundabout language; a periphrese. the plain Billingagate way of calling names . . . would save abundance of time lost by circumlocution. Swift. Circumlocution office, a term of riducle for a governmental office where business is delayed by passing through the hands of different officials. 

CIRCUMLOCUTIONAL:  Relating to, or consisting of, circumlocutions; periphrastic; circuitous. 

CIRCUMLOCUTORY:  Characterised by circumlocution; periphrastic. Shenstone. The officials set to work in regular circumlocutory order. Chambers's Journal. 

CIRCUMMERIDIAN:  About, or near, the meridian. 

CIRCUMMURE:  To encompass with a wall. Shak. 

CIRCUMNAVIGABLE:  Capable of being sailed round. Ray. 

CIRCUMNAVIGATE:  To sail completely round. Having circumnavigated the whole earth. T. Fuller. 

CIRCUMNAVIGATION:  The act of circumnavigating, or sailing round. Arbuthnot. 

CIRCUMNAVIGATOR:  One who sails round. W. Guthrie. 

CIRCUMNUTATE:  To pass through the stages of circumnutation. 

CIRCUMNUTATION:  The successive bowing or bending in different directions of the growing tip of the stems of many plants, especially seen in climbing plants. 

CIRCUMPOLAR:  About the pole; -- applied to stars that revolve around the pole without setting; as, circumpolar stars. 

CIRCUMPOSITION:  The act of placing in a circle, or round about, or the state of being so placed. Evelyn.  CIRCUMROTARY; CIRCUMROTATORY Cir`cum*ro"tary, Cir`cum*ro"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. circum- + rotary, rotatory.]  turning, rolling, or whirling round. 

CIRCUMROTATE:  To rotate about. [R.] 

CIRCUMROTATION:  The act of rolling or revolving round, as a wheel; circumvolution; the state of being whirled round. J. Gregory. 

CIRCUMSCISSILE:  Dehiscing or opening by a transverse fissure extending around (a capsule or pod). See Illust. of Pyxidium. 

CIRCUMSCRIBABLE:  Capable of being circumscribed. 

CIRCUMSCRIBE:  To draw a line around si as to touch at certain points without cutting. See Inscribe, 5.  Syn.  -- To bound; limit; restrict; confine; abridge; restrain; environ; encircle; inclose; encompass. 

CIRCUMSCRIBER:  One who, or that which, circumscribes. 

CIRCUMSCRIPTIBLE:  Capable of being circumscribed or limited by bounds. 

CIRCUMSCRIPTIVE:  Circumscribing or tending to circumscribe; marcing the limits or form of. 

CIRCUMSCRIPTIVELY:  In a limited manner. 

CIRCUMSCRIPTLY:  In a literal, limited, or narrow manner. [R.] Milton. 

CIRCUMSPECT:  Attentive to all the circustances of a case or the probable consequences of an action; cautious; prudent; wary.  Syn.  -- See Cautious. 

CIRCUMSPECTION:  Attention to all the facts and circumstances of a case; caution; watchfulness. With silent circumspection, unespied. Milton.  Syn.  -- Caution; prudence; watchfulness; deliberation; thoughtfulness; wariness; forecast. 

CIRCUMSPECTIVE:  Looking around everi way; cautious; careful of consequences; watchful of danger. "Circumspective eyes." Pope. 

CIRCUMSPECTIVELY:  Circumspectly. 

CIRCUMSPECTLY:  In a circumspect manner; cautiously; warily. 

CIRCUMSPECTNESS:  Vigilance un guarding against evil from every quarter; caution. [Travel] forces circumspectness on those abroad, who at home are nursed in security. Sir H. Wotton. 

CIRCUMSTANCE:  Condition in regard to worldly estate; state of property; situation; surroundings. When men are easy in their circumstances, they are naturally enemies to innovations. Addison. Not a circumstance, of no account. [Colloq.] -- Under the circumstances, taking all things into consideration.  Syn.  -- Event; occurrence; incident; situation; condition; position; fact; detail; item. See Event. 

CIRCUMSTANCE:  To place in a particular situation; to suppy relative incidents. The poet took the matters of fact as they came down to him and circumstanced them, after his own manner. Addison. 

CIRCUMSTANT:  Standing or placed around; surrounding. [R.] "Circumstant bodies." Sir K. Digby. 

CIRCUMSTANTIABLE:  Capable of being circumstantiated. [Obs.] Jer Taylor. 

CIRCUMSTANTIAL:  Something incidental to the main subject, but of less importance; opposed to an essential; -- generally in the plural; as, the circumstantials of religion. Addison. 

CIRCUMSTANTIALITY:  The state, characteristic, or quality of being circumstantial; particularity or minuteness of detail. "I will endeavor to describe with sufficient circumstantiality." De Quincey. 

CIRCUMTERRANEOUS:  Being or dwelling around the earth. "Circumterraneous demouns." H. Hallywell. 

CIRCUMUNDULATE:  To flow round, as waves. [R.] 

CIRCUMVALLATE:  To surround with a rampart or wall. Johnson. 

CIRCUMVALLATE:  Surrounded by a ridle or elevation; as, the circumvallate papillæ, near the base of the tongue. 

CIRCUMVECTION:  The act of carrying anything around, or the state of being so carried. 

CIRCUMVENT:  To gain advantage over by arts, stratagem, or deception; to decieve; to delude; to get around. I circumvented whom I could not gain. Dryden. 

CIRCUMVENTION:  The act of prevailing over another by arts, address, or fraud; deception; fraud; imposture; delusion. A school in which he learns sly circumvention. Cowper. 

CIRCUMVENTIVE:  Tending to circumvent; deceiving by artifices; deluding. 

CIRCUMVENTOR:  One who circumvents; one who gains his purpose by cunning. 

CIRCUMVEST:  To cover round, as woth a garment; to invest. [Obs.] Circumvested with much prejudice. Sir H. Wotton. 

CIRCUMVOLANT:  Flying around. The circumvolant troubles of humanity. G. Macdonald. 

CIRCUMVOLATION:  The act of flying round. [R.] 

CIRCUMVOLVE:  To roll round; to cause to revolve; to put into a circular motion. Herrick. 

CIRCUMVOLVE:  To roll round; to revolve. 

CIRCUS:  A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats of wood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another, and divided lengthwise through the middle by a barrier around which the track or course was laid out. It was used for chariot races, games, and public shows.  Note: The Circus Maximus at Rome could contain more than 100,000 spectators. Harpers' Latin Dict.  2. A circular inclosure for the exhibition of feats of horsemanship, acrobatic displays, etc. Also, the company of performers, with their equipage.  3. Circuit; space; inclosure. [R.] The narrow circus of my dungeon wall. Byron.  CIRL BUNTING Cirl" bun`ting. Etym: [Cf. It. cirlo.] (Zoöl.)  A European bunting (Emberiza cirlus). 

CIRRATE:  Having cirri along the margin of a part or organ. 

CIRRHIFEROUS:  See Cirriferous. 

CIRRHOSE:  Same as Cirrose. 

CIRRHOSIS:  A disease of the liver in which it usually becomes smaller in size and more dense and fibrous in consistence; hence sometimes applied to similar changes in other organs, caused by increase in the fibrous framework and decrease in the proper substance of the organ. 

CIRRHOTIC:  Pertaining to, caused by, or affected with, cirrhosis; as, cirrhotic degeneration; a cirrhotic liver. 

CIRRHOUS:  See Cirrose. 

CIRRHUS:  Same as Cirrus. 

CIRRI:  See Cirrus. 

CIRRIFEROUS:  Bearing cirri, as many plants and animals. 

CIRRIFORM:  Formed like a cirrus or tendril; -- said of appendages of both animals and plants. 

CIRRIGEROUS:  Having curled locks of hair; supporting cirri, or hairlike appendages. 

CIRRIGRADE:  Moving or moved by cirri, or hairlike appendages. 

CIRRIPED:  One of the Cirripedia. 

CIRRIPEDIA:  An order of Crustacea including the barnacles. When adult, they have a calcareous shell composed of several pieces. From the opening of the shell the animal throws out a group of curved legs, looking like a delicate curl, whence the name of the group. See Anatifa. 

CIRROBRANCHIATA:  A division of Mollusca having slender, cirriform appendages near the mouth; the Scaphopoda.  CIRRO-CUMULUS Cir`ro-cu"mu*lus, n. Etym: [Cirrus + cumulus.] (Meteor.)  See under Cloud. 

CIRROSTOMI:  The lowest group of vertebrates; -- so called from the cirri around the mouth; the Leptocardia. See Amphioxus.  CIRRO-STRATUS Cir`ro-stra"tus, n. Etym: [Cirrus + stratus.] (Meteor.)  See under Cloud. 

CIRROUS:  Cirrose.  2. (Zoöl.)  Tufted; -- said of certain feathers of birds. 

CIRRUS:  A tendril or clasper.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) A soft tactile appendage of the mantle of many Mollusca, and of the parapodia of Annelida. Those near the head of annelids are Tentacular cirri; those of the last segment are caudal cirri. (b) The jointed, leglike organs of Cirripedia. See Annelida, and Polychæta.  Note: In some of the inferior animals the cirri aid in locomotion; in others they are used in feeding; in the Annelida they are mostly organs of touch. Some cirri are branchial in function.  3. (Zoöl.)  The external male organ of trematodes and some other worms, and of certain Mollusca.  4. (Meteor.)  See under Cloud. 

CIRSOCELE:  The varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein. 

CIRSOID:  Varicose. Cirsoid aneurism, a disease of an artery in which it becomes dilated and elongated, like a varicose vein. 

CIRSOTOMY:  Any operation for the removal of varices by incision. Dunglison.  CIS- Cis-.  A Latin preposition, sometimes used as a prefix in English words, and signifying on this side. 

CISALPINE:  On the hither side of the Alps with reference to Rome, that is, on the south side of the Alps; -- opposed to transalpine. 

CISATLANTIC:  On this side of the Atlantic Ocean; -- used of the eastern or the western side, according to the standpoint of the writer. Story. 

CISCO:  The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi), valuable food fish of the Great Lakes of North America. The name is also applied to C. Hoyi, a related species of Lake Michigan. 

CISELURE:  The process of chasing on metals; also, the work thus chased. Weale. 

CISLEITHAN:  On the Austrian side of the river Leitha; Austrian. 

CISMONTANE:  On this side of the mountains. See under Ultramontane. 

CISPADANE:  On the hither side of the river Po with reference to Rome; that is, on the south side. 

CISSOID:  A curve invented by Diocles, for the purpose of solving two celebrated problems of the higher geometry; viz., to trisect a plane angle, and to construct two geometrical means between two given straight lines. 

CIST:  A box or chest. Specifically: (a) A bronze receptacle, round or oval, frequently decorated with engravings on the sides and cover, and with feet, handles, etc., of decorative castings. (b) A cinerary urn. See Illustration in Appendix.  2. See Cyst. 

CISTED:  Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted. 

CISTERCIAN:  A monk of the prolific branch of the Benedictine Order, established in 1098 at Cîteaux, in France, by Robert, abbot of Molesme. For two hundred years the Cistercians followed the rule of St. Benedict in all its rigor.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to the Cistercians. 

CISTIC:  See Cystic. 

CIT:  A citizen; an inhabitant of a city; a pert townsman; -- used contemptuously. "Insulted as a cit". Johnson Which past endurance sting the tender cit. Emerson. 

CITABLE:  Capable of being cited. 

CITADEL:  A fortress in or near a fortified city, commanding the city and fortifications, and intended as a final point of defense. Syn. - Stronghold. See Fortress. 

CITATION:  A reference to decided cases, or books of authority, to prove a point in law. 

CITATOR:  One who cites. [R] 

CITATORY:  Having the power or form of a citation; as, letters citatory. 

CITE:  To notify of a proceeding in court. Abbot  Syn.  -- To quote; mention, name; refer to; adduce; select; call; summon. See Quote. 

CITER:  One who cites. 

CITESS:  A city woman [R.] 

CITHARA:  An ancient instrument resembling the harp. 

CITHARISTIC:  Pertaining, or adapted, to the cithara. 

CITHERN:  See Cittern. 

CITICISM:  The manners of a cit or citizen. 

CITIFIED:  Aping, or having, the manners of a city. 

CITIGRADAE:  A suborder of Arachnoidea, including the European tarantula and the wolf spiders (Lycosidae) and their allies, which capture their prey by rapidly running and jumping. See Wolf spider. 

CITIGRADE:  Pertaining to the Citigradæ.  -- n.  One of the Citigradæ. 

CITINER:  One who is born or bred in a city; a citizen. [Obs.] Champan. 

CITIZENESS:  A female citizen. [R.] 

CITIZENSHIP:  The state of being a citizen; the status of a citizen. 

CITOLE:  A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer. [Obs.] 

CITRACONIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or having certain characteristics of, citric and aconitic acids. Citraconic acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline, deliquescent substance, C3H4(CO2H)2, obtained by distillation of citric acid. It is a compound of the ethylene series. 

CITRANGE:  A citrous fruit produced by a cross between the sweet orange and the trifoliate orange (Citrus trifoliata). It is more acid and has a more pronounced aroma than the orange; the tree is hardier. There are several varieties. 

CITRATE:  A salt of citric acid. 

CITRIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as, citric acid. Citric acid (Chem.), an organic acid, C3H4OH.(CO2H)3, extracted from lemons, currants, gooseberies, etc., as a white crystalline substance, having a pleasant sour taste. 

CITRINATION:  The process by which anything becomes of the color of a lemon; esp., in alchemy, the state of perfection in the philosopher's stone indicated by its assuming a deep yellow color. Thynne. 

CITRINE:  Like a citron or lemon; of a lemon color; greenish yellow. Citrine ointment (Med.), a yellowish mercurial ointment, the unquentum hydrargyri nitratis. 

CITRINE:  A yellow, pellucid variety of quartz. 

CITRON:  A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantly aromatic. The thick rind, when candied, is the citron of commerce.  2. A citron tree.  3. A citron melon. Citron melon. (a) A small variety of muskmelon with sugary greenish flesh. (b) A small variety of watermelon, whose solid white flesh is used in making sweetmeats and preserves.  -- Citron tree (Bot.), the tree which bears citrons. It was probably a native of northern India, and is now understood to be the typical form of Citrus Medica. 

CITRUS:  A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc., originally natives of southern Asia. 

CITTERN:  An instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire and played with a quill or plectrum. [Written also cithern.] Shak.  Note: Not to be confounded with zither.  CITTERN-HEAD Cit"tern-head`, n.  Blockhead; dunce; -- so called because the handle of a cittern usually ended with a carved head. Marsion 

CITY:  Of or pertaining to a city. Shak. City council. See under Council.  -- City court, The municipal court of a city. [U. S.] -- City ward, a watchman, or the collective watchmen, of a city. [Obs.] Fairfax. 

CIVE:  Same as Chive. 

CIVET:  The animal that produces civet (Viverra civetta); -- called also civet cat. It is carnivorous, from two to three feet long, and of a brownish gray color, with transverse black bands and spots on the body and tail. It is a native of northern Africa and of Asia. The name is also applied to other species. 

CIVET:  To scent or perfume with civet. Cowper 

CIVIC:  Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating to man as a member of society, or to civil affairs. Civic crown (Rom. Antiq.), a crown or garland of oak leaves and acorns, bestowed on a soldier who had saved the life of a citizen in battle. 

CIVICISM:  The principle of civil government. 

CIVICS:  The science of civil government. 

CIVILIST:  A civilian. [R.] Warbur 

CIVILIZABLE:  Capable of being civilized. 

CIVILIZATION:  Rendering a criminal process civil. [Obs.] 

CIVILIZED:  Reclaimed from savage life and manners; instructed in arts, learning, and civil manners; refined; cultivated. Sale of conscience and duty in open market is not reconcilable with the present state of civilized society. J. Quincy. 

CIVILIZER:  One who, or that which, civilizes or tends to civilize.  CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION Civil Service Commission.  In the United States, a commission appointed by the President, consisting of three members, not more than two of whom may be adherents of the same party, which has the control, through examinations, of appointments and promotions in the classified civil service. It was created by act of Jan, 16, 1883 (22 Stat. 403).  CIVIL SERVICE REFORM Civil Service Reform.  The substitution of business principles and methods for political methods in the conduct of the civil service. esp. the merit system instead of the spoils system in making appointments to office. 

CIVILY:  In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges; politely; courteously; in a well bred manner. 

CIVISM:  State of citizenship. [R.] Dyer. 

CIZAR:  To clip with scissors. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

CIZARS:  Scissors. [Obs.] Swift. 

CIZE:  Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size. 

CLABBER:  Milk curdled so as to become thick. 

CLABBER:  To become clabber; to lopper. 

CLACHAN:  A small village containing a church. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott Sitting at the clachon alehouse. R. L. Stevenson. 

CLAD:  To clothe. [Obs.] Holland. 

CLAD:  imp. & p. p. of Clothe. 

CLADOCERA:  An order of the Entomostraca.  Note: They have a bivalve shell, covering the body but not the head, and from four to six pairs of legs and two pairs of antenæ, for use in swimming. They mostly inhabit fresh water. 

CLADOPHYLL:  A special branch, resembling a leaf, as in the apparent foliage of the broom (Ruscus) and of the common cultivated smilax (Myrsiphillum). 

CLAGGY:  Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings. 

CLAIK:  See Clake. 

CLAIM:  To be entitled to anything; to deduce a right or title; to have a claim. We must know how the first ruler, from whom any one claims, came by his authority. Locke. 

CLAIMABLE:  Capable of being claimed. 

CLAIMANT:  One who claims; one who asserts a right or title; a claimer. 

CLAIMER:  One who claims; a claimant. 

CLAIMLESS:  Having no claim. 

CLAIRAUDIENCE:  Act of hearing, or the ability to hear, sounds not normally audible; -- usually claimed as a special faculty of spiritualistic mediums, or the like. 

CLAIRAUDIENT:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, clairaudience. 

CLAIRAUDIENT:  One alleged to have the power of clairaudience. 

CLAIRE:  A small inclosed pond used for gathering and greening oysters.  CLAIR-OBSCUR Clair"-ob*scur" (, n. Etym: [F. See Clare-obscure.]  See Chiaroscuro. 

CLAIRVOYANCE:  A power, attributed to some persons while in a mesmeric state, of discering objects not perceptible by the senses in their normal condition. 

CLAIRVOYANT:  Pertaining to clairvoyance; discerning objects while in a mesmeric state which are not present to the senses. 

CLAIRVOYANT:  One who is able, when in a mesmeric state, to discern objects not present to the senses.  CLAKE; CLAIK Clake, Claik, n. (Zoöl.)  The bernicle goose; -- called also clack goose. 

CLAM:  A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that are edible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria), the quahog or round clam (Venus mercenaria), the sea clam or hen clam (Spisula solidissima), and other species of the United States. The name is said to have been given originally to the Tridacna gigas, a huge East Indian bivalve. You shall scarce find any bay or shallow shore, or cove of sand, where you may not take many clampes, or lobsters, or both, at your pleasure. Capt. John Smith (1616). Clams, or clamps, is a shellfish not much unlike a coclke; it lieth under the sand. Wood (1634).  2. (Ship Carp.)  Strong pinchers or forceps.  3. pl. (Mech.)  A kind of vise, usually of wood. Blood clam. See under Blood. 

CLAM:  To clog, as with glutinous or viscous matter. A swarm of wasps got into a honey pot, and there they cloyed and clammed Themselves till there was no getting out again. L'Estrange. 

CLAM:  To be moist or glutinous; to stick; to adhere. [R.] Dryden 

CLAM:  Claminess; moisture. [R.] "The clam of death." Carlyle. 

CLAM:  A crash or clangor made by ringing all the bells of a chime at once. Nares. 

CLAM:  To produce, in bell ringing, a clam or clangor; to cause to clang. Nares. 

CLAMANT:  Crying earnestly, beseeching clamorousky. "Clamant children." Thomson. 

CLAMATION:  The act of crying out. Sir T. Browne. 

CLAMATORES:  A division of passerine birds in which the vocal muscles are but little developed, so that they lack the power of singing. 

CLAMATORIAL:  Like or pertaining to the Clamatores. 

CLAMBAKE:  The backing or steaming of clams on heated stones, between layers of seaweed; hence, a picnic party, gathered on such an occasion. 

CLAMBER:  To climb with difficulty, or with hands and feet; -- also used figuratively. The narrow street that clambered toward the mill. Tennyson. 

CLAMBER:  The act of clambering. T. Moore. 

CLAMBER:  To ascend by climbing with difficulty. Clambering the walls to eye him. Shak. 

CLAMJAMPHRIE:  Low, worthless people; the rabble. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

CLAMMILY:  In a clammy manner. "Oozing so clammily." Hood. 

CLAMMINESS:  State of being clammy or viscous. 

CLAMMY:  Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft and sticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a cold perspiration. 

CLAMOR:  To utter loud sounds or outcries; to vociferate; to complain; to make importunate demands. The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night. Shak. 

CLAMORER:  One who clamors. 

CLAMOROUS:  Speaking and repeating loud words; full of clamor; calling or demanding loudly or urgently; vociferous; noisy; bawling; loud; turbulent. "My young ones were clamorous for a morning's excursion." Southey.  -- Clam"or*ous*ly, adv.  -- Clam"or*ous*ness, n. 

CLAMP:  A thick plank on the inner part of a ship's side, used to sustuan the ends of beams.  5. A mass of bricks heaped up to be burned; or of ore for roasting, or of coal coking.  6. A mollusk. See Clam. [Obs.] Clamp nails, nails used to fasten on clamps in ships. 

CLAMP:  A heavy footstep; a tramp. 

CLAMP:  To tread heavily or clumsily; to clump. The policeman with clamping feet. Thackeray. 

CLAMPER:  An instrument of iron, with sharp prongs, attached to a boot or shoe to enable the wearer to walk securely upon ice; a creeper. Kane. 

CLANCULAR:  Conducted with secrecy; clandestine; concealed. [Obs.] Not close and clancular, but frank and open. Barrow. 

CLANCULARLY:  privately; secretly. [Obs.] 

CLANDESTINE:  Conducted with secrecy; withdrawn from public notice, usually for an evil purpose; kept secret; hidden; private; underhand; as, a clandestine marriage. Locke.  Syn.  -- Hidden; secret; private; concealed; underhand; sly; stealthy; surreptitious; furtive; fraudulent.  -- Clan*des"tine*ly, adv.  -- Clan*des"tine*ness, n. 

CLANDESTINITY:  Privacy or secrecy. [R.] 

CLANG:  To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound. The fierce Caretes . . . clanged their sounding arms. Prior. 

CLANG:  To give out a clang; to resound. "Clanging hoofs." Tennyson. 

CLANG:  Qualyty of tone. 

CLANGOR:  A sharp, harsh, ringing sound. Dryden. 

CLANGOROUS:  Making a clangor; having a ringing, metallic sound. 

CLANGOUS:  Making a clang, or a ringing metallic sound. [Obs.] 

CLANJAMFRIE:  Same as Clamjamphrie. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

CLANK:  A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallic or other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or less resounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound than clink. But not in chains to pine, His spirit withered with tyeur clank. Byron. 

CLANK:  To cause to sound with a clank; as, the prisoners clank their chains. 

CLANK:  To sound with a clank. 

CLANKLESS:  Without a clank. Byreon.  CLAN-NA-GAEL Clan"-na-Gael", n. [Ir., clan of the Gaels.]  A secret society of Irish Fenians founded in Philadelphia in 1881. 

CLANNISH:  Of or pertaining to a clan; closely united, like a clan; disposed to associate only with one's clan or clique; actuated by the traditions, prejudices, habits, etc., of a clan.  -- Clan"nish*ly, adv.  -- Clan"nish*ness, n. 

CLANSHIP:  A state of being united togheter as in a clan; an association under a chieftain. 

CLANSMAN:  One belonging to the same clan with another. 

CLAP:  The nether part of the beak of a hawk. Clap dish. See Clack dish, under Clack, n.  -- Clap net, a net for taking birds, made to close or clap together. 

CLAP:  Gonorrhea. 

CLAPBOARD:  To cover with clapboards; as, to clapboard the sides of a house. [U. S.] Bartlett.  CLAPBREAD; CLAPCAKE Clap"bread`, Clap"cake`, n.  Oatmeal cake or bread clapped or beaten till it is thin. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

CLAPE:  A bird; the flicker. 

CLAPPER:  A rabbit burrow. [Obs.] 

CLAPS:  Variant of Clasp [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CLAPTRAP:  Contrived for the purpose of making a show, or gaining applause; deceptive; unreal. 

CLAQUE:  A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatrical exhibition. 

CLAQUEUR:  One of the claque employed to applaud at a theater. 

CLARE:  A nun of the order of St.Clare. 

CLARENCE:  A close four-wheeled carriage, with one seat inside, and a seat for the driver.  CLARENCEUX; CLARENCIEUX Clar"en*ceux, Clar"en*cieux, n. (Her.)  See King-at-arms. 

CLARENDON:  A style of type having a narrow and heave face. It is made in all sizes.  Note: This line is in nonpareil Clarendon.  CLARE-OBSCURE Clare"-ob*scure", n. Etym: [L. clarus clear + obscurus obscure; cf. F. clair-obscur. Cf. Chiaroscuro.] (Painting)  See Chiaroscuro. 

CLARET:  The name firat given in England to the red wines of M 

CLARIBELLA:  A soft, sweet stop, or set of open wood pipes in an organ. 

CLARICHORD:  A musical instrument, formerly in use, in form of a spinet; -- called also manichord and clavichord. 

CLARIGATE:  To declare war with certain ceremonies. [Obs.] Holland. 

CLARINET:  A wind instrument, blown by a single reed, of richer and fuller tone than the oboe, which has a double reed. It is the leading instrument in a military band.  Note: [Often improperly called clarionet.] 

CLARINO:  A reed stop in an organ. 

CLARION:  A kind of trumpet, whose note is clear and shrill. He sounds his imperial clarion along the whole line of battle. E. Everett. 

CLARIONET:  See Clarinet. 

CLARISONUS:  Having a clear sound. [Obs.] Ash. 

CLARITUDE:  Clearness; splendor. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

CLARITY:  Clearness; brightness; splendor. Floods, in whose more than crystal clarity, Innumerable virgin graces row. Beaumont.  CLARO-OBSCURO Cla"ro-ob*scu"ro, n.  See Chiaroscuro. 

CLARRE:  Wine with a mixture of honey and species. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CLART:  To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

CLARTY:  Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

CLARY:  To make a loud or shrill noise. [Obs.] Golding. 

CLARY:  A plant (Salvia sclarea) of the Sage family, used in flavoring soups. Clary water, a composition of clary flowers with brandy, etc., formerly used as a cardiac. 

CLASH:  To strike noisily against or together. 

CLASH:  A change-speed gear in which the gears are changed by sliding endwise. 

CLASHINGLY:  With clashing. 

CLASPERED:  Furnished with tendrils. 

CLASS:  One of the sections into which a church or congregation is divided, and which is under the supervision of a class leader. Class of a curve (Math.), the kind of a curve as expressed by the number of tangents that can be drawn from any point to the curve. A circle is of the second class.  -- Class meeting (Methodist Church), a meeting of a class under the charge of a class leader, for counsel and relegious instruction. 

CLASS:  To grouped or classed. The genus or famiky under which it classes. Tatham.  CLASS DAY Class day.  In American colleges and universities, a day of the commencement season on which the senior class celebrates the completion of its course by exercises conducted by the members, such as the reading of the class histories and poem, the delivery of the class oration, the planting of the class ivy, etc. 

CLASSIBLE:  Capable of being classed.  CLASSIC; CLASSICAL Clas"sic, Clas"sic*al, a. Etym: [L. classicus relating to the classes of the Roman people, and especially to the frist class; hence, of the first rank, superior, from classis class: cf. F. classique. See Class, n.]  1. Of or relating to the first class or rank, especially in literature or art. Give, as thy last memorial to the age, One classic drama, and reform the stage. Byron. Mr. Greaves may justly be reckoned a classical author on this subject [Roman weights and coins]. Arbuthnot.  2. Of or pertaining to the ancient Greeks and Romans, esp. to Greek or Roman authors of the highest rank, or of the period when their best literature was produced; of or pertaining to places inhabited by the ancient Greeks and Romans, or rendered famous by their deeds. Though throned midst Latium's classic plains. Mrs. Hemans. The epithet classical, as applied to ancient authors, is determined less by the purity of their style than by the period at which they wrote. Brande & C. He [Atterbury] directed the classical studies of the undergraduates of his college. Macaulay.  3. Conforming to the best authority in literature and art; chaste; pure; refined; as, a classical style. Classical, provincial, and national synods. Macaulay. Classicals orders. (Arch.) See under Order. 

CLASSICALIST:  One who adheres to what he thinks the classical canons of art. Ruskin.  CLASSICALITY; CLASSICALNESS Clas`si*cal"i*ty, Clas"sic*al*ness, n.  The quality of being classical. 

CLASSICISM:  A classic idiom or expression; a classicalism. C. Kingsley. 

CLASSICIST:  One learned in the classics; an advocate for the classics. 

CLASSIFIABLE:  Capable of being classified. 

CLASSIFIC:  Characterizing a class or classes; relating to classification. 

CLASSIFICATION:  The act of forming into a class or classes; a distibution into groups, as classes, orders, families, etc., according to some common relations or affinities. Artificial classification. (Science) See under Artifitial. 

CLASSIFICATORY:  Pertaining to classification; admitting of classification. "A classificatory system." Earle. 

CLASSIFIER:  One who classifies. 

CLASSIFY:  To distribute into classes; to arrange according to a system; to arrnge in sets according to some method founded on common properties or characters.  Syn.  -- To arrange; distibute; rank. 

CLASSIS:  An ecclesiastical body or judicat 

CLASSMATE:  One who is in the same class with another, as at school or college. 

CLASTIC:  Fragmental; made up of brokas, sandstone is a clastic rock. 

CLATCH:  To daub or smear, as with lime; to make or finish in a slipshod way. [Scot.] 

CLATHRATE:  Shaped like a lattice; cancellate. Gray.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having the surface marked with raised lines resembling a lattice, as many shells. 

CLATTER:  To make a rattling noise with. You clatter still your brazen kettle. Swift. 

CLATTERER:  One who clatters. 

CLATTERINGLY:  With clattering.  CLAUDE LORRAINE GLASS Claude" Lor*raine" glass`. Etym: [Its name is supposed to be derived from the similarity of the effects it gives to those of a picture by Claude Lorrain (often written Lorraine).]  A slightly convex mirror, commonly of black glass, used as a toy for viewing the reflected landscape. 

CLAUDENT:  Shutting; confining; drawing together; as, a claudent muscle. [R.] Jonson 

CLAUDICANT:  Limping. [R.] 

CLAUDICATION:  A halting or limping. [R.] Tatler. 

CLAUSE:  A subordinate portion or a subdivision of a sentence containing a subject and its predicate. 

CLAUSE:  See Letters clause or close, under Letter. 

CLAUSTRAL:  Cloistral. Ayliffe 

CLAUSTRUM:  A thin lamina of gray matter in each cerebral hemiphere of the brain of man.  -- Claus"tral, a. 

CLAUSULAR:  Consisting of, or having, clauses. Smart. 

CLAUSURE:  The act of shutting up or confining; confinement. [R.] Geddes.  CLAVATE; CLAVATED Cla"vate, Cla"va*ted, a. Etym: [L. clava club.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Club-shaped; having the form of a club; growing gradually thicker toward the top.  Note: [See Illust. of Antennae.] 

CLAVE:  imp. of Cleave. [Obs.] 

CLAVECIN:  The harpsichord. 

CLAVEL:  See Clevis. 

CLAVELLATE:  See Clavate. 

CLAVELLATED:  Said of potash, probably in reference to its having been obtained from billets of wood by burning. [Obs.] 

CLAVER:  See Clover. Holland. 

CLAVER:  Frivolous or nonsensical talk; prattle; chattering. [Scot. & North of Eng.] Emmy found herself entirely at a loss in the midst of their clavers. Thackeray. 

CLAVICHORD:  A keyed stringed instrument, now superseded by the pianoforte. See Clarichord. 

CLAVICLE:  The collar bone, which is joined at one end to the scapula, or shoulder blade, and at the other to the sternum, or breastbone. In man each clavicle is shaped like the letter 

CLAVICORN:  Having club-shaped antennæ. See Antennæ -- n.  One of the Clavicornes. 

CLAVICORNES:  A group of beetles having club-shaped antennæ. 

CLAVICULAR:  Of or pertaining to the clavicle. 

CLAVIER:  The keyboard of an organ, pianoforte, or harmonium.  Note: Clavier ( 

CLAVIFORM:  Club-shaped; clavate. Craig. 

CLAVIGER:  One who carries the keys of any place. 

CLAVIGER:  One who carries a club; a club bearer. 

CLAVIGEROUS:  Bearing a club or a key. 

CLAVIS:  A key; a glossary. 

CLAVUS:  A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn. 

CLAVY:  A mantelpiece. 

CLAW:  A slender appendage or process, formed like a claw, as the base of petals of the pink. Gray. Claw hammer, a hammer with one end of the metallic head cleft for use in extracting nails, etc.  -- Claw hammer coat, a dress coat of the swallowtail pattern. [Slang] -- Claw sickness, foot rot, a disease affecting sheep. 

CLAW:  To scrape, scratch, or dig with a claw, or with the hand as a claw. "Clawing [in ash barrels] for bits of coal." W. D. Howells. To claw off (Naut.), to turn to windward and beat, to prevent falling on a lee shore. 

CLAWBACK:  A flatterer or sycophant. [Obs.] "Take heed of these clawbacks." Latimer. 

CLAWBACK:  Flattering; sycophantic. [Obs.] Like a clawback parasite. Bp. Hall. 

CLAWBACK:  To flatter. [Obs.] Warner. 

CLAWED:  Furnished with claws. N. Grew. 

CLAWLESS:  Destitute of claws. 

CLAY:  Earth in general, as representing the elementary particles of the human body; hence, the human body as formed from such particles. I also am formed out of the clay. Job xxxiii. 6. The earth is covered thick with other clay, Which her own clay shall cover. Byron. Bowlder clay. See under Bowlder.  -- Brick clay, the common clay, containing some iron, and therefore turning red when burned.  -- Clay cold, cold as clay or earth; lifeless; inanimate.  -- Clay ironstone, an ore of iron consisting of the oxide or carbonate of iron mixed with clay or sand.  -- Clay marl, a whitish, smooth, chalky clay.  -- Clay mill, a mill for mixing and tempering clay; a pug mill.  -- Clay pit, a pit where clay is dug.  -- Clay slate (Min.), argillaceous schist; argillite.  -- Fatty clays, clays having a greasy feel; they are chemical compounds of water, silica, and aluminia, as halloysite, bole, etc.  -- Fire clay , a variety of clay, entirely free from lime, iron, or an alkali, and therefore infusible, and used for fire brick.  -- Porcelain clay, a very pure variety, formed directly from the decomposition of feldspar, and often called kaolin.  -- Potter's clay, a tolerably pure kind, free from iron. 

CLAY:  Stupid. [Obs.] Shak. 

CLAYES:  Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers, to cover lodgments. [Obs.] 

CLAYEY:  Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay; like clay. 

CLAYISH:  Partaking of the nature of clay, or containing particles of it. 

CLAYMORE:  A large two-handed sword used formerly by the Scottish Highlanders. 

CLAYTONIA:  An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; -- sometimes called spring beauty. 

CLEAN:  Free from ceremonial defilement.  8. Free from that which is corrupting to the morals; pure in tone; healthy. "Lothair is clean." F. Harrison.  9. Well-proportioned; shapely; as, clean limbs. A clean bill of health, a certificate from the proper authrity that a ship is free from infection.  -- Clean breach. See under Breach, n., 4.  -- To make a clean breast. See under Breast. 

CLEAN:  To render clean; to free from whatever is foul, offensive, or extraneous; to purify; to cleanse. To clean out, to exhaust; to empty; to get away from (one) all his money. [Colloq.] De Quincey.  CLEAN-CUT Clean"-cut`, a.  See Clear-cut. 

CLEANER:  One who, or that which, cleans. 

CLEANLILY:  In a cleanly manner.  CLEAN-LIMBED Clean"-limbed`, a.  With well-proportioned, unblemished limbs; as, a clean-limbed young fellow. Dickens. 

CLEANLINESS:  State of being cleanly; neatness of person or dress. Cleanliness from head to heel. Swift. 

CLEANSABLE:  Capable of being cleansed. Sherwood. 

CLEANSE:  To render clean; to free from fith, pollution, infection, guilt, etc.; to clean. If we walk in the light . . . the blood of Jesus Christ his son cleanseth us from all sin. 1 John i. 7. Can'st thou not minister to a mind diseased, And with some sweet oblivious antidote Cleanse the suffed bosom of that perilous stuff Which weighs upon the heart Shak. 

CLEANSER:  One who, or that which, cleanses; a detergent. Arbuthnot.  CLEAN-TIMBERED Clean"-tim`bered, a.  Well-propotioned; symmetrical. [Poetic] Shak. 

CLEAR:  Full extent; distance between extreme limits; especially; the distance between the nearest surfaces of two bodies, or the space between walls; as, a room ten feet square in the clear. 

CLEAR:  To make exchanges of checks and bills, and settle balances, as is done in a clearing house.  4. To obtain a clearance; as, the steamer cleared for Liverpool to- day. To clear out, to go or run away; to depart. [Colloq.] 

CLEARAGE:  The act of reforming anything; clearance. [R.] 

CLEARANCE:  The distance by which one object clears another, as the distance between the piston and cylinder head at the end of a stroke in a steam engine, or the least distance between the point of a cogwell tooth and the bottom of a space between teeth of a wheel with which it engages. Clearance space (Steam engine), the space inclosed in one end of the cylinder, between the valve or valves and the piston, at the beginning of a stroke; waste room. It includes the space caused by the piston's clearance and the space in ports, passageways, etc. Its volume is often expressed as a certain proportion of the volume swept by the piston in a single stroke. 

CLEARCOLE:  A priming of size mixed with whiting or white lead, used in house painting, etc.; also, a size upon which gold leaf is applied in gilding. 

CLEARCOLE:  To coat or paint with clearcole.  CLEAR-CUT Clear"-cut`, a.  1. Having a sharp, distinct outline, like that of a cameo. She has . . . a cold and clear-cut face. Tennyson.  2. Concisely and distinctly expressed. 

CLEAREDNESS:  The quality of being cleared. Imputed by his friends to the clearedness, by his foes to the searedness, of his conscience. T. Fuller. 

CLEARER:  A tool of which the hemp for lines and twines, used by sailmakers, is finished.  CLEAR-HEADED Clear"-head`ed, a.  Having a clear understanding; quick of perception; intelligent. "He was laborious and clear-headed." Macaulay.  -- Clear"-head`ed*ness, n. 

CLEARLY:  In a clear manner. 

CLEARNESS:  The quality or state of being clear.  Syn.  -- Clearness, Perspicuity. Clearness has reference to our ideas, and springs from a distinct conception of the subject under consideration. Perspicuity has reference to the mode of expressing our ideas and belongs essentially to style. Hence we speak of a writer as having clear ideas, a clear arrangement, and perspicuous phraseology. We do at times speak of a person's having great clearness of style; but in such cases we are usually thinking of the clearness of his ideas as manifested in language. "Whenever men think clearly, and are thoroughly interested, they express themselves with perspicuity and force." Robertson.  CLEAR-SEEING Clear"-see`ing, a.  Having a clear physical or mental vision; having a clear understanding.  CLEAR-SHINING Clear"-shin`ing, a.  Shining brightly. Shak.  CLEAR-SIGHTED Clear"-sight`ed, a.  Seeing with clearness; discerning; as, clear-sighted reason  CLEAR-SIGHTEDNESS Clear"-sight`ed*ness, n.  Acute discernment. 

CLEARSTARCH:  To stiffen with starch, and then make clear by clapping with the hands; as, to clearstarch muslin. 

CLEARSTARCHER:  One who clearstarches.  CLEARSTORY; CLERESTORY Clear"sto`ry, Clere"sto`ry, n. (Arch.)  The upper story of the nave of a church, containing windows, and rising above the aisle roofs. 

CLEARWING:  A lepidop terous insect with partially transparent wings, of the family Ægeriadæ, of which the currant and peach-tree borers are examples. 

CLEAT:  A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to something in order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc.  2. (Naut.)  A device made of wood or metal, having two arms, around which turns may be taken with a line or rope so as to hold securely and yet be readily released. It is bolted by the middle to a deck or mast, etc., or it may be lashed to a rope. 

CLEAT:  To strengthen with a cleat. 

CLEAVABLE:  Capable of cleaving or being divided. 

CLEAVAGE:  The quality possessed by many crystallized substances of splitting readily in one or more definite directions, in which the cohesive attraction is a minimum, affording more or less smooth surfaces; the direction of the dividing plane; a fragment obtained by cleaving, as of a diamond. See Parting.  3. (Geol.)  Division into laminæ, like slate, with the lamination not necessarily parallel to the plane of deposition; -- usually produced by pressure. Basal cleavage, cleavage parallel to the base of a crystal, or to the plane of the lateral axes.  -- Cell cleavage (Biol.), multiplication of cells by fission. See Segmentation.  -- Cubuc cleavage, cleavage parallel to the faces of a cube.  -- Diagonal cleavage, cleavage parallel to ta diagonal plane.  -- Egg clavage. (Biol.) See Segmentation.  -- Lateral cleavage, cleavage parallel to the lateral planes.  -- Octahedral, Dodecahedral, or Rhombohedral, cleavage, cleavage parallel to the faces of an octahedron, dodecahedron, or rhombohedron.  -- Prismatic cleavage, cleavage parallel to a vertical prism. 

CLEAVE:  To part; to open; to crack; to separate; as parts of bodies; as, the ground cleaves by frost. The Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst. Zech. xiv. 4. 

CLEAVELANDITE:  A variety of albite, white and lamellar in structure. 

CLEAVER:  One who cleaves, or that which cleaves; especially, a butcher's instrument for cutting animal bodies into joints or pieces. 

CLEAVERS:  A species of Galium (G. Aparine), having a fruit set with hooked bristles, which adhere to whatever they come in contact with; -- called also, goose grass, catchweed, etc. 

CLECHE:  Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of the color of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the first bearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing. Compare Voided. 

CLECHY:  See Cléché. 

CLEDGE:  The upper stratum of fuller's earth. 

CLEDGY:  Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil. Halliwell. 

CLEE:  A claw. [Holland. 

CLEE:  The redshank. 

CLEEK:  To seize; clutch; snatch; catch; pluck.  2.  To catch or draw out with a cleek, as a fish; to hook.  3. To hook or link (together); hence, to marry.  Scott. 

CLEF:  A character used in musical notation to determine the position and pitch of the scale as represented on the staff.  Note: The clefs are three in number, called the C, F, and G clefs, and are probably corruptions or modifications of these letters. They indicate that the letters of absolute pitch belonging to the lines upon which they are placed, are respectively C, F, and G. The F or bass clef, and the G or treble clef, are fixed in their positions upon the staff. The C clef may have three positions. It may be placed upon the first or lower line of the staff, in which case it is called soprano clef, upon the third line, in which case it called alto clef, or upon the fourth line, in which case tenor clef. It rarely or never is placed upon the second line, except in ancient music. See other forms of C clef under C, 2. Alto clef, Bass clef. See under Alto, Bass. 

CLEFT:  from Cleave. 

CLEFT:  Incised nearly to the midrob; as, a cleft leaf. 

CLEFT:  A disease in horses; a crack on the band of the pastern. Branchial clefts. See under Branchial.  Syn.  -- Crack; crevice; fissure; chink; cranny.  CLEFT-FOOTED Cleft"-foot`ed, a.  Having a cloven foot. 

CLEFTGRAFT:  To ingraft by cleaving the stock and inserting a scion. Mortimer. 

CLEG:  A small breeze or horsefly. [North of Eng. & Scot.] Jamieson.  CLEISTOGAMIC; CLEISTOGAMOUS Cleis`to*gam"ic, Cleis*tog"a*mous a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  Having, beside the usual flowers, other minute, closed flowers, without petals or with minute petals; -- said of certain species of plants which possess flowers of two or more kinds, the closed ones being so constituted as to insure self-fertilization. Darwin. 

CLEM:  To starve; to famish. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

CLEMATIS:  A genus of flowering plants, of many species, mostly climbers, having feathery styles, which greatly enlarge in the fruit; -- called also virgin's bower. 

CLEMENCE:  Clemency. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CLEMENT:  Mild in temper and disposition; merciful; compassionate. Shak.  -- Clem"ent*ly, adv. 

CLEMENTINE:  Of or pertaining to Clement, esp. to St.Clement of Rome and the spurious homilies attributed to him, or to Pope Clement V. and his compilations of canon law. 

CLENCH:  See Clinch.  CLEOPATRA'S NEEDLE Cle`o*pa"tra's nee"dle. [So named after Cleopatra, queen of Egypt.]  Either of two obelisks which were moved in ancient times from Heliopolis to Alexandria, one of which is now on the Thames Embankment in London, and the other in Central Park, in the City of New York.   Some writers consider that only the obelisk now in Central Park is properly called Cleopatra's needle. 

CLEPE:  To call, or name. [Obs.] That other son was cleped Cambalo. Chaucer. 

CLEPE:  To make appeal; to cry out. [Obs.] Wandering in woe, and to the heavens on high Cleping for vengeance of this treachery. Mir. for Mag. 

CLEPSINE:  A genus of freshwater leeches, furnished with a proboscis. They feed upon mollusks and worms. 

CLEPSYDRA:  A water clock; a contrivance for measuring time by the graduated flow of a liquid, as of water, through a small aperture. See Illust. in Appendix. 

CLEPTOMANIA:  See Kleptomania. 

CLERESTORY:  Same as Clearstory. 

CLERGEON:  A chorister boy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CLERGIAL:  Learned; erudite; clercial. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CLERGICAL:  Of or pertaining to the clergy; clerical; clerkily; learned. [Obs.] Milton. 

CLERGYABLE:  Entitled to, or admitting, the benefit of clergy; as, a clergyable felony. Blackstone. 

CLERGYMAN:  An ordained minister; a man regularly authorized to peach the gospel, and administer its ordinances; in England usually restricted to a minister of the Established Church. 

CLERIC:  A clerk, a clergyman. [R.] Bp. Horsley. 

CLERIC:  Same as Clerical. 

CLERICALISM:  An excessive devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order; undue influence of the clergy; sacerdotalism. 

CLERICITY:  The state of being a clergyman. 

CLERK:  A feast for the benefit of the parish clerk. [Eng.] T. Warton. 

CLERKLESS:  Unlearned. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse. 

CLERKLIKE:  Scholarlike. [Obs.] Shak. 

CLERKLINESS:  Scholarship. [Obs.] 

CLERKLY:  Of or pertaining to a clerk. Cranmer. 

CLERKLY:  In a scholarly manner. [Obs.] Shak. 

CLERKSHIP:  State, quality, or business of a clerk. 

CLEROMANCY:  A divination by throwing dice or casting lots. 

CLERONOMY:  Inheritance; heritage. 

CLERSTORY:  See Clearstory. 

CLEVERISH:  Somewhat clever. [R.] 

CLEVERLY:  In a clever manner. Never was man so clever absurd. C. Smart. 

CLEVERNESS:  The quality of being clever; skill; dexterity; adroitness.  Syn.  -- See Ingenuity. 

CLEVIS:  A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the two ends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of a plow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.; -- called also clavel, clevy.  CLEW; CLUE Clew, Clue, n. Etym: [OE. clewe, clowe, clue, AS. cleowen, cliwen, clywe ball of thread; akin to D. kluwen, OHG. chliwa, chliuwa, G. dim. kleuel, knäuel, and perch. to L. gluma hull, husk, Skr. glaus sort of ball or tumor. Perch. akin to E. claw. *26. Cf. Knawel.]  1. A ball of thread, yarn, or cord; also, The thread itself. Untwisting his deceitful clew. Spenser.  2. That which guides or directs one in anything of a doubtful or intricate nature; that which gives a hint in the solution of a mystery. The clew, without which it was perilous to enter the vast and intricate maze of countinental politics, was in his hands. Macaulay.  3. (Naut.) (a.)  A lower corner of a square sail, or the after corner of a fore- and-aft sail. (b.)  A loop and thimbles at the corner of a sail. (c.)  A combination of lines or nettles by which a hammock is suspended. Clew garnet (Naut.), one of the ropes by which the clews of the courses of square-rigged vessels are drawn up to the lower yards.  -- Clew line (Naut.), a rope by which a clew of one of the smaller square sails, as topsail, topgallant sail, or royal, is run up to its yard.  -- Clew-line block (Naut.), The block through which a clew line reeves. See Illust. of Block. 

CLEW:  To move of draw (a sail or yard) by means of the clew garnets, clew lines, etc.; esp. to draw up the clews of a square sail to the yard. To clew down (Naut.), to force (a yard) down by hauling on the clew lines.  -- To clew up (Naut.), to draw (a sail) up to the yard, as for furling. 

CLICHE:  A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, or lettering, in relief. Cliché casting, a mode of obtaining an impression from a die or woodcut, or the like, by striking it suddenly upon metal which has been fused and is just becoming solid; also, the casting so obtained. 

CLICK:  To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises), as by gentle striking; to tick. The varnished clock that clicked behind the door. Goldsmith. 

CLICK:  To snatch. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

CLICK:  See Elater. 

CLICKER:  One who as has charge of the work of a companionship. 

CLICKY:  Resembling a click; abounding in clicks. "Their strange clicky language." The Century. 

CLIDASTES:  A genus of exinct marine reptiles, allied to the Mosasaurus. See Illust. in Appendix. 

CLIENCY:  State of being a client. 

CLIENT:  A citizen who put himself under the protection of a man of distinction and influence, who was called his patron.  2. A dependent; one under the protection of another. I do think they are your friends and clients, And fearful to disturb you. B. Jonson.  3. (Law)  One who consults a legal adviser, or submits his cause to his management. 

CLIENTAL:  Of or pertaining to a client. A dependent and cliental relation. Burke. I sat down in the cliental chair. Dickens. 

CLIENTED:  Supplied with clients. [R.] The least cliented pettifiggers. R. Carew. 

CLIENTELAGE:  See Clientele, n., 2. 

CLIENTSHIP:  Condition of a client; state of being under the protection of a patron. Dryden. 

CLIFF:  A high, steep rock; a precipice. Cliff swallow (Zoöl.), a North American swallow (Petrochelidon lunifrons), which builds its nest against cliffs; the eaves swallow. 

CLIFF:  See Clef. [Obs.]  CLIFF LIMESTONE Cliff" lime"stone`. (Geol.)  A series of limestone strata found in Ohio and farther west, presenting bluffs along the rivers and valleys, formerly supposed to be of one formation, but now known to be partly Silurian and partly Devonian. 

CLIFFY:  Having cliffs; broken; craggy. 

CLIFT:  A cliff. [Obs.] That gainst the craggy clifts did loudly roar. Spenser. 

CLIFTED:  Broken; fissured. Climb the Andeclifted side. Grainger. 

CLIMACTER:  See Climacteric, n. 

CLIMACTERIC:  Relating to a climacteric; critical. 

CLIMACTERICAL:  See Climacteric. Evelyn. 

CLIMACTIC:  Of or pertaining to a climax; forming, or of the nature of, a climax, or ascending series.  A fourth kind of parallelism . . . is still sufficiently marked to be noticed by the side of those described by Lowth, viz., climactic parallelism (sometimes called "ascending rhythm"). S. R. Driver. 

CLIMATAL:  Climatic. Dunglison. 

CLIMATARCHIC:  Presiding over, or regulating, climates. 

CLIMATE:  One of thirty regions or zones, parallel to the equator, into which the surface of the earth from the equator to the pole was divided, according to the successive increase of the length of the midsummer day.  2. The condition of a place in relation to various phenomena of the atmosphere, as temperature, moisture, etc., especially as they affect animal or vegetable life. 

CLIMATE:  To dwell. [Poetic] Shak. 

CLIMATIC:  Of or pertaining to a climate; depending on, or limited by, a climate. 

CLIMATICAL:  Climatic. 

CLIMATIZE:  To acclimate or become acclimated. 

CLIMATOGRAPHY:  A description of climates. 

CLIMATOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to climatology. 

CLIMATOLOGIST:  One versed in, or who studies, climatology. 

CLIMATOLOGY:  The science which treats of climates and investigates their phenomena and causes. Brande & C. 

CLIMATURE:  A climate. [Obs.] Shak. 

CLIMAX:  A figure of which the parts of a sentence or paragraph are so arranged that each sicceeding one rise "Tribulation worketh patience, patience experience, and experience hope" -- a happy climax. J. D. Forbes.  3. The highest point; the greatest degree. We must look higher for the climax of earthly good. I. Taylor. To cap the climax, to surpass everything, as in excellence or in absurdity. [Colloq.] 

CLIMB:  To ascend or creep upward by twining about a support, or by attaching itself by tendrills, rootlets, etc., to a support or upright surface. 

CLIMB:  To ascend, as by means of the hands and feet, or laboriously or slowly; to mount. 

CLIMB:  The act of one who climbs; ascent by climbing. Warburton. 

CLIMBABLE:  Capable of being climbed. 

CLIMBER:  One who, or that which, climbs: (a) (Bot.) A plant that climbs. (b) (Zoöl.) A bird that climbs, as a woodpecker or a parrot. 

CLIMBER:  To climb; to mount with effort; to clamber. [Obs.] Tusser. 

CLIMBING:  p. pr. & vb. n. of Climb. Climbing fern. See under Fern.  -- Climbing perch. (Zoöl.) See Anabas, and Labyrinthici. 

CLIME:  A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate. Turn we to sutvey, Where rougher climes a nobler race display. Goldsmith. 

CLINANTHIUM:  The receptacle of the flowers in a composite plant; -- also called clinium. 

CLINCH:  To hold fast; to grasp something firmly; to seize or grasp one another. 

CLINCH:  A hitch or bend by which a rope is made fast to the ring of an anchor, or the breeching of a ship's gun to the ringbolts. 

CLINCHER:  See Clinker-built. 

CLING:  To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially by twining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to its support; -- usually followed by to or together. And what hath life for thee That thou shouldst cling to it thus Mrs. Hemans. 

CLING:  Adherence; attachment; devotion. [R.] A more tenacious cling to worldly respects. Milton. 

CLINGSTONE:  Having the flesh attached closely to the stone, as in some kinds of peaches.  -- n.  A fruit, as a peach, whose flesh adheres to the stone. 

CLINGY:  Apt to cling; adhesive. [R.] 

CLINIC:  One who receives baptism on a sick bed. [Obs.] Hook.  3. (Med.)  A school, or a session of a school or class, in which medicine or surgery is taught by the examination and treatment of patients in the presence of the pupils.  CLINICAL; CLINIC Clin"ic*al, Clin"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. clinique. See Lean, v. i.]  1. Of or pertaining to a bed, especially, a sick bed.  2. Of or pertaining to a clinic, or to the study of disease in the living subject. Clinical baptism, baptism administered to a person on a sick bed.  -- Clinical instruction, instruction by means of clinics.  -- Clinical lecture (Med.), a discourse upon medical topics illustrared by the exhibition and examination of living patients.  -- Clinical medicine, Clinical surgery, that part of medicine or surgery which is occupied with the investigation of disease in the living subject. 

CLINICALLY:  In a clinical manner. 

CLINIQUE:  A clinic. 

CLINIUM:  See Clinanthium. 

CLINK:  To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as by striking metallic or other sonorous bodies together. And let me the canakin clink. Shak. 

CLINK:  A slight, sharp, tinkling sound, made by the collision of sonorous bodies. "Clink and fall of swords." Shak. 

CLINKANT:  See Clnquant. 

CLINKER:  Having the side planks (af a boat) so arranged that the lower edge of each overlaps the upper edge of the plank next below it like clapboards on a house. See Lapstreak. 

CLINKSTONE:  An igneous rock of feldspathic composition, lamellar in structure, and clinking under the hammer. See Phonolite. 

CLINODIAGONAL:  That diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which makes an oblique angle witch the vertical axis. See Crystallization.  -- a.  Pertaining to, or the direction of, the clinidiagonal. 

CLINODOME:  See under Dome. 

CLINOGRAPHIC:  Pertaining to that mode of projection in drawing in which the rays of light are supposed to fall obliquely on the plane of projection. 

CLINOID:  Like a bed; -- applied to several processes on the inner side of the sphenoid bone. 

CLINOMETER:  An instrument for determining the dip of beds or strata, pr the slope of an embankment or cutting; a kind of plumb level. Dana. 

CLINOMETRY:  That art or operation of measuring the inclination of strata. 

CLINOPINACOID:  The plane in crystals of the monoclinic system which is parallel to the vertical and the inclined lateral (clinidiagonal) axes. 

CLINORHOMBIC:  Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to a rhombic base; monoclinic. 

CLINOSTAT:  An apparatus consisting of a slowly revolving disk, usually regulated by  clockwork, by means of wich the action of external agents, as light and gravity, on growing plants may be regulated or eliminated. 

CLINQUANT:  Glittering; dressed in, or overlaid with, tinsel finery. [Obs.] Shak. 

CLINQUANT:  Tinse;l; Dutch gold. 

CLIO:  The Muse who presided over history. 

CLIONE:  A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea), abundant in the Arctic Ocean, constitutes a part of the food of the Greenland whale. It is sometimes incorrectly called Clio. 

CLIP:  To move swiftly; -- usually with indefinite it. Straight flies as chek, and clips it down the wind. Dryden. 

CLIP:  A projecting flange on the upper edge of a horseshoe, turned up so as to embrace the lower part of the hoof; -- called also toe clip and beak. Youatt.  7. A blow or stroke with the hand; as, he hit him a clip. [Colloq. U. S.] 

CLIPPER:  A vessel with a sharp bow, built and rigged for fast sailing.  -- Clip"per-built` (, a.  Note: The name was first borne by "Baltimore clippers" famous as privateers in the early wars of the United States. 

CLIQUE:  A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests or for the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in a bad sense. 

CLIQUE:  To To associate together in a clannish way; to act with others secretly to gain a desired end; to plot; -- used with together. 

CLIQUISH:  Of or pertaining to a clique; disposed to from cliques; exclusive in spirit.  -- Cli"*quish*ness, n. 

CLIQUISM:  The tendency to associate in cliques; the spirit of cliques. 

CLITELLUS:  A thickened glandular portion of the body of the adult earthworm, consisting of several united segments modified for reproductive purposes. 

CLITORIS:  A small organ at the upper part of the vulva, homologous to the penis in the male. 

CLIVERS:  See Cleavers. 

CLIVITY:  Inclination; ascent or descent; a gradient. [R.] 

CLOACA:  The common chamber into which the intestinal, urinary, and generative canals discharge in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and many fishes. 

CLOACAL:  Of or pertaining to a cloaca. 

CLOAK:  To cover with, or as with, a cloak; hence, to hide or conceal. Now glooming sadly, so to cloak her matter. Spenser.  Syn.  -- See Palliate. 

CLOAKEDLY:  In a concealed manner. 

CLOAKROOM:  A room, attached to any place of public resort, where cloaks, overcoats, etc., may be deposited for a time. 

CLOCHE:  An apparatus used in controlling certain kinds of aëroplanes, and consisting principally of a steering column mounted with a universal joint at the base, which is bellshaped and has attached to it the cables for controlling the wing-warping devices, elevator planes, and the like. 

CLOCK:  To ornament with figured work, as the side of a stocking. 

CLOCK:  To call, as a hen. See Cluck. [R.] 

CLOCK:  A large beetle, esp. the European dung beetle (Scarabæus stercorarius). 

CLOCKLIKE:  Like a clock or like clockwork; mechanical. Their services are clocklike, to be set Blackward and vorward at their lord's command. B. Jonson. 

CLOCKWISE:  Like the motion of the hands of a clock; -- said of that direction of a rotation about an axis, or about a point in a plane, which is ordinarily reckoned negative. 

CLOCKWORK:  The machinery of a clock, or machinary resembling that of a clock; machinery which produced regularity of movement. 

CLOD:  To collect into clods, or into a thick mass; to coagulate; to clot; as, clodded gore. See Clot. Clodded in lumps of clay. G. Fletcher. 

CLODDISH:  Resembling clods; gross; low; stupid; boorish. Hawthorne.  -- Clod"dish*ness, n. 

CLODDY:  Consisting of clods; full of clods. 

CLODHOPPER:  A rude, rustic fellow. 

CLODHOPPING:  Boorish; rude. C. Bronté. 

CLODPATE:  A blockhead; a dolt. 

CLODPATED:  Stupid; dull; doltish. 

CLODPOLL:  A stupid fellow; a dolt. [Written also clodpole.] Shak. 

CLOFF:  Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundred weight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in a general sense, of small deductions from the original weight. [Written also clough.] McCulloch. 

CLOGGINESS:  The state of being clogged. 

CLOGGING:  Anything which clogs. Dr. H. More. 

CLOGGY:  Clogging, or having power to clog. 

CLOISONNE:  Inlaid between partitions: -- said of enamel when the lines which divide the different patches of fields are composed of a kind of metal wire secured to the ground; as distinguished from champlevé enamel, in which the ground is engraved or scooped out to receive the enamel. S. Wells Williams. 

CLOISTER:  To confine in, or as in, a cloister; to seclude from the world; to immure. None among them are throught worthy to be styled religious persons but those that cloister themselves up in a monastery. Sharp. 

CLOISTERAL:  Cloistral. [Obs.] I. Walton. 

CLOISTERER:  One belonging to, or living in, a cloister; a recluse. 

CLOISTRAL:  Of, pertaining to, or confined in, a cloister; recluse. [Written also cloisteral.] Best become a cloistral exercise. Daniel. 

CLOISTRESS:  A nun. [R.] Shak. 

CLOKE:  See Cloak. [Obs.]  CLOMB; CLOMBEN Clomb, Clomb"en,  imp. & p. p. of Climb (for climbed). [Obs.] The sonne, he sayde, is clomben up on hevene. Chaucer. 

CLOMP:  See Clamp. 

CLONG:  imp. of Cling. [Obs.] 

CLONIC:  Having an irregular, convulsive motion. Dunglison. Clonic spasm. (Med.) See under Spasm. 

CLONUS:  A series of muscular contractions due to sudden stretching of the muscle, -- a sign of certain neuropathies. 

CLOOM:  To close with glutinous matter. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

CLOOP:  The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle. "The cloop of a cork wrenched from a bottle." Thackeray. 

CLOOTIE:  A little hoof.  2.  The Devil. "Satan, Nick, or Clootie."  Burns. 

CLOSE:  The interest which one may have in a piece of ground, even though it is not inclosed. Bouvier. 

CLOSE:  Uttered with a relatively contracted opening of the mouth, as certain sounds of e and o in French, Italian, and German; -- opposed to open. Close borough. See under Borough.  -- Close breeding. See under Breeding.  -- Close communion, communion in the Lord's supper, restricted to those who have received baptism by immersion.  -- Close corporation, a body or corporation which fills its own vacancies.  -- Close fertilization. (Bot.) See Fertilization.  -- Close harmony (Mus.), compact harmony, in which the tones composing each chord are not widely distributed over several octaves.  -- Close time, a fixed period during which killing game or catching certain fish is prohibited by law.  -- Close vowel (Pron.), a vowel which is pronounced with a diminished aperture of the lips, or with contraction of the cavity of the mouth.  -- Close to the wind (Naut.), directed as nearly to the point from which the wind blows as it is possible to sail; closehauled; -- said of a vessel. 

CLOSE:  Closely united.  CLOSE-BARRED Close"-barred`, a.  Firmly barred or closed.  CLOSE-BODIED Close"-bod`ied, a.  Fitting the body exactly; setting close, as a garment. Ayliffe.  CLOSE-FIGHTS Close"-fights`, n. pl. (Naut.)  Barriers with loopholes, formerly erected on the deck of a vessel to shelter the men in a close engagement with an enemy's boarders; -- called also close quarters. [Obs.] 

CLOSEFISTED:  Covetous; niggardly. Bp. Berkeley. "Closefisted contractors." Hawthorne. 

CLOSEHANDED:  Covetous; penurious; stingy; closefisted.  -- Close"hand`ed*ness, n. 

CLOSEHAULED:  Under way and moving as nearly as possible toward the direction from which the wind blows; -- said of a sailing vessel. 

CLOSEMOUTHED:  Cautious in speaking; secret; wary; uncommunicative. 

CLOSEN:  To make close. [R.] 

CLOSENESS:  The state of being close. Half stifled by the closeness of the room. Swift. We rise not against the piercing judgment of Augustus, nor the extreme caution or closeness of Tiberius. Bacon. An affectation of closeness and covetousness. Addison.  Syn.  -- Narrowness; oppressiveness; strictness; secrecy; compactness; conciseness; nearness; intimacy; tightness; stinginess; literalness. 

CLOSER:  The last stone in a horizontal course, if of a less size than the others, or a piece of brick finishing a course. Gwilt. 

CLOSEREEFED:  Having all the reefs taken in; -- said of a sail.  CLOSE-STOOL Close"-stool`, n.  A utensil to hold a chamber vessel, for the use of the sick and infirm. It is usually in the form of a box, with a seat and tight cover. 

CLOSET:  Closemouthed; silent. "Close-tongued treason." Shak. 

CLOSH:  A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis. Crabb. 

CLOSH:  The game of ninepins. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

CLOSURE:  A method of putting an end to debate and securing an immediate vote upon a measure before a legislative body. It is similar in effect to the previous question. It was first introduced into the British House of Commons in 1882. The French word clôture was originally applied to this proceeding. 

CLOT:  A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulated mass, as of blood; a coagulum. "Clots of pory gore." Addison. Doth bake the egg into clots as if it began to poach. Bacon.  Note: Clod and clot appear to be radically the same word, and are so used by early writers; but in present use clod is applied to a mass of earth or the like, and clot to a concretion or coagulation of soft matter. 

CLOT:  To concrete, coagulate, or thicken, as soft or fluid matter by evaporation; to become a cot or clod. 

CLOT:  To form into a slimy mass. 

CLOTE:  The common burdock; the clotbur. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

CLOTHE:  To wear clothes. [Poetic] Care no more to clothe eat. Shak. 

CLOTHESHORSE:  A frame to hang clothes on. 

CLOTHESLINE:  A rope or wire on which clothes are hung to dry. 

CLOTHESPIN:  A forked piece of wood, or a small spring clamp, used for fastening clothes on a line. 

CLOTHESPRESS:  A receptacle for clothes. 

CLOTHING:  See Card clothing, under 3d Card. 

CLOTHRED:  Clottered. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CLOTPOLL:  See Clodpoll. [Obs.] Shak. 

CLOTTED:  Composed of clots or clods; having the quality or form of a clot; sticky; slimy; foul. "The clotted glebe." J. Philips. When lust . . . Lets in defilement to the inward parts, The soul grows clotted by contagion. Milton. 

CLOTTER:  To concrete into lumps; to clot. [Obs.] "Clottered blood." Chapman. 

CLOTTY:  Full of clots, or clods. "Clotty matter." Harvey. 

CLOTURE:  See Closure, 5. 

CLOTWEED:  Cocklebur. 

CLOUD:  To grow cloudy; to become obscure with clouds; -- often used with up. Worthies, away! The scene begins to cloud. Shak. 

CLOUDAGE:  Mass of clouds; cloudiness. [R.] A scudding cloudage of shapes. Coleridge. 

CLOUDBERRY:  A species of raspberry (Rubus Chamæmerous) growing in the northern regions, and bearing edible, amber-colored fruit.  CLOUD-BUILT Cloud"-built, a.  Built of, or in, the clouds; airy; unsubstantial; imaginary. Cowper. So vanished my cloud-built palace. Goldsmith.  CLOUD-BURST Cloud"-burst`, n.  A sudden copious rainfall, as the whole cloud had been precipitated at once.  CLOUD-CAPPED Cloud"-capped`, a.  Having clouds resting on the top or head; reaching to the clouds; as, cloud-capped mountains.  CLOUD-COMPELLER Cloud"-com*pel`ler, n.  Cloud-gatherer; -- an epithet applied to Zeus. [Poetic.] Pope. 

CLOUDILY:  In a cloudy manner; darkly; obscurely. Dryden. 

CLOUDINESS:  The state of being cloudy. 

CLOUDLAND:  Dreamland. 

CLOUDLESS:  Without a cloud; clear; bright. A cloudless winter sky. Bankroft. -- Cloud"less*ly, adv.  -- Cloud"less*ness, n. 

CLOUDLET:  A little cloud. R. Browning. Eve's first star through fleecy cloudlet peeping. Coleridge. 

CLOUGH:  An allowance in weighing. See Cloff. 

CLOUTERLY:  Clumsy; awkward. [Obs.] Rough-hewn, cloutery verses. E. Phillips. 

CLOVE:  imp. of Cleave. Cleft. Spenser. Clove hitch (Naut.) See under Hitch.  -- Clove hook (Naut.), an iron two-part hook, with jaws overlapping, used in bending chain sheets to the clews of sails; -- called also clip hook. Knight. 

CLOVE:  A cleft; a gap; a ravine; -- rarely used except as part of a proper name; as, Kaaterskill Clove; Stone Clove. 

CLOVE:  A very pungent aromatic spice, the unexpanded flower bud of the clove tree (Eugenia, or Caryophullus, aromatica), a native of the Molucca Isles. Clove camphor. (Chem.) See Eugenin.  -- Clove gillyflower, Clove pink (Bot.), any fragrant self-colored carnation. 

CLOVE:  One of the small bulbs developed in the axils of the scales of a large bulb, as in the case of garlic. Developing, in the axils of its skales, new bulbs, of what gardeners call cloves. Lindley.  2. A weight. A clove of cheese is about eight pounds, of wool, about seven pounds. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

CLOVEN:  from Cleave, v. t. To show the cloven foot or hoof, to reveal a devilish character, or betray an evil purpose, notwithstanding disguises, -- Satan being represented dramatically and symbolically as having cloven hoofs.  CLOVEN-FOOTED; CLOVEN-HOOFED Clo"ven-foot`ed, Clo"ven-hoofed`, a.  Having the foot or hoof divided into two parts, as the ox. 

CLOVER:  A plant of differend species of the genus Trifolium; as the common red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare's foot, T. arvense. Clover weevil (Zoöl.) a small weevil (Apion apricans), that destroys the seeds of clover.  -- Clover worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Asopia costalis), often very destructive to clover hay.  -- In clover, in very pleasant circumstances; fortunate. [Colloq.] - - Sweet clover. See Meliot. 

CLOVERED:  Covered with growing clover. Flocks thick nibbling through the clovered vale. Thomson.  CLOWE-GILOFRE Clowe"-gi*lof`re, n. Etym: [See 3d Clove, and Gilliflower.]  Spice clove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CLOWN:  To act as a clown; -- with it [Obs.] Beclowns it properly indeed. B. Jonson. 

CLOWNAGE:  Behavior or manners of a clown; clownery. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

CLOWNERY:  Clownishness. L'Estrange. 

CLOWNISH:  Of or resembling a clown, or characteristic of a clown; ungainly; awkward. "Clownish hands." Spenser. "Clownish mimic." Prior.  -- Clown"ish*ly, adv.  Syn.  -- Coarse; rough; clumsy; awkward; ungainly; rude; uncivil; ill- bred; boorish; rustic; untutored. 

CLOWNISHNESS:  The manners of a clown; coarseness or rudeness of behavior. That plainness which the alamode people call clownishness. Locke. 

CLOYLESS:  That does not cloy. Shak. 

CLOYMENT:  Satiety. [Obs.] Shak. 

CLUB:  Any card of the suit of cards having a figure like the trefoil or clover leaf. (pl.) The suit of cards having such figure.  3. An association of persons for the promotion of some common object, as literature, science, politics, good fellowship, etc.; esp. an association supported by equal assessments or contributions of the members. They talked At wine, in clubs, of art, of politics. Tennyson. He [Goldsmith] was one of the nine original members of that celebrated fraternity which has sometimes been called the Literary Club, but which has always disclaimed that epithet, and still glories in the simple name of the Club. Macaulay.  4. A joint charge of expense, or any person's share of it; a contribution to a common fund. They laid down the club. L'Estrange. We dined at a French house, but paid ten shillings for our part of the club. Pepys. Club law, government by violence; lynch law; anarchy. Addison. -Club moss (Bot.), an evergreen mosslike plant, much used in winter decoration. The best know species is Lycopodium clavatum, but other Lycopodia are often called by this name. The spores form a highly inflammable powder.  -- Club root (Bot.), a disease of cabbages, by which the roots become distorted and the heads spoiled.  -- Club topsail (Naut.), a kind of gaff topsail, used mostly by yachts having a fore-and-aft rig. It has a short "club" or "jack yard" to increase its spread. 

CLUB:  To throw, or allow to fall, into confusion. To club a battalion implies a temporary inability in the commanding officer to restore any given body of men to their natural front in line or column. Farrow.  3. To unite, or contribute, for the accomplishment of a common end; as, to club exertions.  4. To raise, or defray, by a proportional assesment; as, to club the expense. To club a musket (Mil.), to turn the breach uppermost, so as to use it as a club. 

CLUB:  To drift in a current with an anchor out. 

CLUBBABLE:  Suitable for membership in a club; sociable. [Humorous.] G. W. Curtis. 

CLUBBED:  Shaped like a club; grasped like, or used as, a club. Skelton. 

CLUBBIST:  A member of a club; a frequenter of clubs. [R.] Burke. 

CLUBFISTED:  Having a large fist. Howell. 

CLUBFOOT:  A short, variously distorted foot; also, the deformity, usually congenital, which such a foot exhibits; talipes. 

CLUBFOOTED:  Having a clubfoot. 

CLUBHAND:  A short, distorted hand; also, the deformity of having such a hand. 

CLUBHAUL:  To put on the other tack by dropping the lee anchor as soon as the wind is out of the sails (which brings the vessel's head to the wind), and by cutting the cable as soon as she pays off on the other tack. Clubhauling is attempted only in an exigency. 

CLUBHOUSE:  A house occupied by a club. 

CLUBROOM:  The apartment in which a club meets. Addison.  CLUB-RUSH Club"-rush`, n. (Bot.)  A rushlike plant, the reed mace or cat-tail, or some species of the genus Scirpus. See Bulrush.  CLUB-SHAPED Club"-shaped, a.  Enlarged gradually at the end, as the antennæ of certain insects. 

CLUCK:  To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen. Ray. 

CLUCK:  To call together, or call to follow, as a hen does her chickens. She, poor hen, fond of no second brood, Has clucked three to the wars. Shak. 

CLUCKING:  The noise or call of a brooding hen. 

CLUE:  A ball of thread; a thread or other means of guidance. Same as Clew. You have wound a goodly clue. Shak. This clue once found unravels all the rest. Pope. Serve as clues to guide us into further knowledge. Locke. 

CLUM:  Silence; hush. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CLUMBER:  A kind of field spaniel, with short legs and stout body, which, unlike other spaniels, hunts silently. 

CLUMP:  To arrange in a clump or clumps; to cluster; to group. Blackmore. 

CLUMP:  To tread clumsily; to clamp. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

CLUMPER:  To form into clumps or masses. [Obs.] Vapors . . . clumpered in balls of clouds. Dr. H. More. 

CLUMPS:  A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enabling the questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected by two persons who answer the questions; -- so called because the players take sides in two "clumps" or groups, the "clump" which guesses the word winning the game. 

CLUMPY:  Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless. Leigh Hunt. 

CLUMSILY:  In a clumsy manner; awkwardly; as, to walk clumsily. 

CLUMSINESS:  The quality of being clusy. The drudging part of life is chiefly owing to clumsiness and ignorance. Collier. 

CLUNCH:  .  1. (Mining)  Indurated clay. See Bind, n., 3.  2. One of the hard beds of the lower chalk. Dana. 

CLUNG:  imp. & p. p. of Cling. 

CLUNG:  Wasted away; shrunken. [Obs.] 

CLUNIAC:  A monk of the reformed branch of the Benedictine Order, founded in 912 at Cluny (or Clugny) in France.  -- Also used as a. 

CLUNIACENSIAN:  Cluniac. 

CLUPEOID:  Of or pertaining to the Herring family. 

CLUSTER:  To grow in clusters or assemble in groups; to gather or unite in a cluster or clusters. His sunny hair Cluster'd about his temples, like a god's. Tennyson. The princes of the country clustering together. Foxe. 

CLUSTER:  To collect into a cluster or clusters; to gather into a bunch or close body. Not less the bee would range her cells, . . . The foxglove cluster dappled bells. Tennyson. Or from the forest falls the clustered snow. Thomson. Clustered column (Arch.), a column which is composed, or appears to be composed, of several columns collected together. 

CLUSTERINGLY:  In clusters. 

CLUSTERY:  Growing in, or full of, clusters; like clusters. Johnson. 

CLUTCH:  The hands, claws, or talons, in the act of grasping firmly; -- often figuratively, for power, rapacity, or cruelty; as, to fall into the clutches of an adversary. I must have . . . little care of myself, if I ever more come near the clutches of such a giant. Bp. Stillingfleet.  3. (Mach.)  A device which is used for coupling shafting, etc., so as to transmit motion, and which may be disengaged at pleasure.  4. Any device for gripping an object, as at the end of a chain or tackle.  5. (Zoöl.)  The nest complement of eggs of a bird. Bayonet clutch (Mach.), a clutch in which connection is made by means of bayonets attached to arms sliding on a feathered shaft. The bayonets slide through holes in a crosshead fastened on the shaft. 

CLUTCH:  To reach (at something) as if to grasp; to catch or snatch; -- often followed by at. Clutching at the phantoms of the stock market. Bankroft. 

CLUTTER:  To crowd together in disorder; to fill or cover with things in disorder; to throw into disorder; to disarrange; as, to clutter a room. 

CLUTTER:  To make a confused noise; to bustle. It [the goose] cluttered here, it chuckled there. Tennyson. 

CLUTTER:  To clot or coagulate, as blood. [Obs.] Holland. 

CLYDESDALE:  One of a breed of heavy draft horses originally from Clydesdale, Scotland. They are about sixteen hands high and usually brown or bay.  CLYDESDALE TERRIER Clydesdale terrier.  One of a breed of small silky-haired terriers related to, but smaller than, the Skye terrier, having smaller and perfectly erect ears. 

CLYPEASTROID:  Like or related to the genus Clupeaster; -- applied to a group of flattened sea urchins, with a rosette of pores on the upper side. 

CLYPEATE:  Shaped like a round buckler or shield; scutate.  2. (Zoöl.)  Furnished with a shield, or a protective plate or shell. 

CLYPEIFORM:  Shield-shaped; clypeate. 

CLYPEUS:  The frontal plate of the head of an insect. 

CLYSMIAN:  Connected with, or related to, the deluge, or to a cataclysm; as, clysmian changes. Smart. 

CLYSMIC:  Washing; cleansing. 

CLYSTER:  A liquid injected into the lower intestines by means of a syringe; an injection; an enema. Clyster pipe, a tube or pipe used for injections.  CLYTIE KNOT Cly"tie knot.  In hair dressing, a loose, low coil at the back of the head, like the knot on the head of the bust of Clytie by G. F. Watts. 

CNEMIAL:  Pertaining to the shin bone. Cnemial crest, a crestlike prominence on the proximal end of the tibia of birds and some reptiles. 

CNIDA:  One of the peculiar stinging, cells found in Coelenterata; a nematocyst; a lasso cell. 

CNIDARIA:  A comprehensive group equivalent to the true Coelenterata, i.e., exclusive of the sponges. They are so named from presence of stinging cells (cnidae) in the tissues. See Coelenterata. 

CNIDOBLAST:  One of the cells which, in the Coelenterata, develop into cnidæ. 

CNIDOCIL:  The fine filiform process of a cnidoblast.  CO- Co- (.  A form of the prefix com-, signifying with, together, in conjunction, joint. It is used before vowels and some consonants. See Com-. 

COACERVATE:  Raised into a pile; collected into a crowd; heaped. [R.] Bacon. 

COACERVATE:  To heap up; to pile. [R.] 

COACERVATION:  A heaping together. [R.] Bacon. 

COACH:  A cabin on the after part of the quarterdeck, usually occupied by the captain. [Written also couch.] [Obs.] The commanders came on board and the council sat in the coach. Pepys.  4. (Railroad)  A first-class passenger car, as distinguished from a drawing- room car, sleeping car, etc. It is sometimes loosely applied to any passenger car. 

COACH:  To drive or to ride in a coach; -- sometimes used with it. [Colloq.] "Coaching it to all quarters." E. Waterhouse. 

COACHBOX:  The seat of a coachman. 

COACHDOG:  One of a breed of dogs trained to accompany carriages; the Dalmatian dog. 

COACHEE:  A coachman [Slang] 

COACHER:  one of the side at the bat posted near first or third base to direct a base runner. 

COACHFELLOW:  One of a pair of horses employed to draw a coach; hence (Fig.), a comrade. Shak. 

COACHMAN:  A tropical fish of the Atlantic ocean (Dutes auriga); -- called also charioteer. The name refers to a long, lashlike spine of the dorsal fin. 

COACHMANSHIP:  Skill in driving a coach.  COACHWHIP SNAKE Coach"whip` snake". (Zoöl.)  A large, slender, harmless snake of the southern United States (Masticophis flagelliformis).  Note: Its long and tapering tail has the scales so arranged and colored as to give it a braided appearance, whence the name. 

COACT:  To force; to compel; to drive. [Obs.] The faith and service of Christ ought to be voluntary and not coacted. Foxe. 

COACT:  To act together; to work in concert; to unite. [Obs.] But if I tell you how these two did coact. Shak. 

COACTION:  Force; compulsion, either in restraining or impelling. Sojth. 

COACTIVELY:  In a coactive manner. 

COACTIVITY:  Unity of action. 

COADAPTATION:  Mutual adaption. R. Owen. 

COADAPTED:  Adapted one to another; as, coadapted pulp and tooth. R. Owen. 

COADJUMENT:  Mutual help; coöperation. [R.] Johnson. 

COADJUST:  To adjust by mutual adaptations. R. Owen. 

COADJUSTMENT:  Mutual adjustment. 

COADJUTANT:  Mutually assisting or operating; helping. J. Philips. 

COADJUTANT:  An assistant. R. North. 

COADJUTING:  Mutually assisting. [Obs.] Drayton. 

COADJUTIVE:  Rendering mutual aid; coadjutant. Feltham. 

COADJUTOR:  The assistant of a bishop or of a priest holding a benefice. 

COADJUTORSHIP:  The state or office of a coadjutor; joint assistance. Pope.  COADJUTRESS; COADJUTRIX Co`ad*ju"tress, Co`ad*ju"trix, n.  A female coadjutor or assistant. Holland. Smollett. 

COADJUVANCY:  Joint help; coöperation. Sir T. Browne. 

COADJUVANT:  Coöperating. 

COADJUVANT:  An adjuvant. 

COADUNATE:  United at the base, as contiguous lobes of a leaf. 

COADUNATION:  Union, as in one body or mass; unity. Jer. Taylor. The coadunation of all the civilized provinces. Coleridge. 

COADUNITION:  Coadunation. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

COADVENTURE:  An adventure in which two or more persons are partakers. 

COADVENTURE:  To share in a venture. Howell. 

COADVENTURER:  A fellow adventurer. 

COAFFOREST:  To convert into, or add to, a forest. Howell. 

COAG:  See Coak, a kind of tenon. 

COAGENCY:  Agency in common; joint agency or agent. Coleridge. 

COAGENT:  An associate in an act; a coworker. Drayton. 

COAGMENT:  To join together. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

COAGMENTATION:  The act of joining, or the state of being joined, together; union. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

COAGULABILITY:  The quality of being coagulable; capacity of being coagulated. Ure. 

COAGULABLE:  Capable of being coagulated. Boyle. 

COAGULANT:  That which produces coagulation. 

COAGULATE:  Coagulated. [Obs.] Shak. 

COAGULATE:  To cause (a liquid) to change into a curdlike or semisolid state, not by evaporation but by some kind of chemical reaction; to curdle; as, rennet coagulates milk; heat coagulates the white of an egg. 

COAGULATE:  To undergo coagulation. Boyle.  Syn.  -- To thicken; concrete; curdle; clot; congeal. 

COAGULATED:  Changed into, or contained in, a coagulum or a curdlike mass; curdled. Coagulated proteid (Physiol. Chem.), one of a class of bodies formed in the coagulation of a albuminous substance by heat, acids, or other agents. 

COAGULATIVE:  Having the power to cause coagulation; as, a coagulative agent. Boyle. 

COAGULATOR:  That which causes coagulation. Hixley. 

COAGULATORY:  Serving to coagulate; produced by coagulation; as, coagulatory effects. Boyle. 

COAGULUM:  The thick, curdy precipitate formed by the coagulation of albuminous matter; any mass of coagulated matter, as a clot of bloot. 

COAITA:  The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genus Ateles, esp. A. paniscus. The black-faced coaita is Ateles ater. See Illustration in Appendix. 

COAK:  See Coke, n. 

COAK:  A kind of tenon connecting the face of a scarfed timber with the face of another timber, or a dowel or pin of hard wood or iron uniting timbers. [Also spelt coag.]  2. A metallic bushing or strengthening piece in the center of a wooden block sheve. 

COAK:  To unite, as timbers, by means of tenons or dowels in the edges or face. Totten. 

COAL:  A black, or brownish black, solid, combustible substance, dug from beds or veins in the earth to be used for fuel, and consisting, like charcoal, mainly of carbon, but more compact, and often affording, when heated, a large amount of volatile matter.  Note: This word is often used adjectively, or as the first part of self-explaining compounds; as, coal-black; coal formation; coal scuttle; coal ship. etc.  Note: In England the plural coals is used, for the broken mineral coal burned in grates, etc.; as, to put coals on the fire. In the United States the singular in a collective sense is the customary usage; as, a hod of coal. Age of coal plants. See Age of Acrogens, under Acrogen.  -- Anthracite or Glance coal. See Anthracite.  -- Bituminous coal. See under Bituminous.  -- Blind coal. See under Blind.  -- Brown coal, or Lignite. See Lignite.  -- Caking coal, a bituminous coal, which softens and becomes pasty or semi-viscid when heated. On increasing the heat, the volatile products are driven off, and a coherent, grayish black, cellular mass of coke is left.  -- Cannel coal, a very compact bituminous coal, of fine texture and dull luster. See Cannel coal.  -- Coal bed (Geol.), a layer or stratum of mineral coal.  -- Coal breaker, a structure including machines and machinery adapted for crushing, cleansing, and assorting coal.  -- Coal field (Geol.), a region in which deposits of coal occur. Such regions have often a basinlike structure, and are hence called coal basins. See Basin.  -- Coal gas, a variety of carbureted hydrogen, procured from bituminous coal, used in lighting streets, houses, etc., and for cooking and heating.  -- Coal heaver, a man employed in carrying coal, and esp. in putting it in, and discharging it from, ships.  -- Coal measures. (Geol.) (a) Strata of coal with the attendant rocks. (b) A subdivision of the carboniferous formation, between the millstone grit below and the Permian formation above, and including nearly all the workable coal beds of the world.  -- Coal oil, a general name for mineral oils; petroleum.  -- Coal plant (Geol.), one of the remains or impressions of plants found in the strata of the coal formation.  -- Coal tar. See in the Vocabulary.  -- To haul over the coals, to call to account; to scold or censure. [Colloq.] -- Wood coal. See Lignite. 

COAL:  To take in coal; as, the steaer coaled at Southampton.  COAL-BLACK Coal"-black, a.  As black as coal; jet black; very black. Dryden. 

COALERY:  See Colliery. 

COALESCENCE:  The act or state of growing together, as similar parts; the act of uniting by natural affinity or attraction; the state of being united; union; concretion. 

COALESCENT:  Growing together; cohering, as in the organic cohesion of similar parts; uniting. 

COALGOOSE:  The cormorant; -- so called from its black color. 

COALITE:  To unite or coalesce. [Obs.] Let them continue to coalite. Bolingbroke. 

COALITE:  To cause to unite or coalesce. [Obs.] Time has by degrees blended . . . and coalited the conquered with the conquerors. Burke. 

COALITIONER:  A coalitionist. 

COALITIONIST:  One who joins or promotes a coalition; one who advocates coalition.  CO-ALLY Co`-al*ly", n.; pl. Co-allies.  A joint ally. Kent.  COAL-METER Coal"-me`ter, n.  A licensed or official coal measurer in London. See Meter. Simmonds. 

COALMOUSE:  A small species of titmouse, with a black head; the coletit. 

COALSACK:  Any one of the spaces in the Milky Way which are very black, owing to the nearly complete absence of stars; esp., the large space near the Southern Cross sometimes called the Black Magellanic Cloud.  COAL TAR Coal" tar`.  A thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by the distillation of bituminous coal in the manufacture of illuminating gas; used for making printer's ink, black varnish, etc. It is a complex mixture from which many substances have been obtained, especially hydrocarbons of the benzene or aromatic series.  Note: Among its important ingredients are benzene, aniline, phenol, naphtalene, anthracene, etc., which are respectively typical of many dye stuffs, as the aniline dyes, the phthaleïns, indigo, alizarin, and many flavoring extracts whose artificial production is a matter of great commercial importance.  COAL-WHIPPER Coal"-whip`per, n.  One who raises coal out of the hold of a ship. [Eng.] Dickens.  COAL WORKS Coal" works.  A place where coal is dug, including the machinery for raising the coal. 

COALY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of the nature of coal. 

COAMINGS:  Raised pieces of wood of iron around a hatchway, skylight, or other opening in the deck, to prevent water from running bellow; esp. the fore-and-aft pieces of a hatchway frame as distinguished from the transverse head ledges. [Written also combings.] 

COANNEX:  To annex with something else. 

COAPTATION:  The adaptation or adjustment of parts to each other, as of a broken bone or dislocated joint.  COARCT; COARCTATE Co*arct", Co*arc"tate, v. t. Etym: [See Coarctate, a.]  1. To press together; to crowd; to straiten; to confine closely. [Obs.] Bacon.  2. To restrain; to confine. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

COARCTATE:  Pressed together; closely connected; -- applied to insects having the abdomen separated from the thorax only by a constriction. Coarctate pupa (Zoöl.), a pupa closely covered by the old larval skin, as in most Diptera. 

COARCTATION:  A stricture or narrowing, as of a canal, cavity, or orifice. 

COARSE:  Having a coarse grain or texture, as wood; hence, wanting in refinement. 

COARSELY:  In a coarse manner; roughly; rudely; inelegantly; uncivilly; meanly. 

COARSEN:  To make coarse or vulgar; as, to coarsen one's character. [R.] Graham. 

COARSENESS:  The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; melegance; vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, or language. "The coarseness of the sackcloth." Dr. H. More. Pardon the coarseness of the illustration. L'Estrange. A coarseness and vulgarity in all the proceedings. Burke. 

COARTICULATION:  The unoin or articulation of bones to form a joint.  CO-ASSESSOR Co`-as*sess"or, n.  A joint assessor. 

COAST:  To slide down hill; to slide on a sled, upon snow or ice. [Local, U. S.] 

COASTAL:  Of or pertaining to a cast.  COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY Coast and Geodetic Survey.  A bureau of the United States government charged with the topographic and hydrographic survey of the coast and the execution of belts of primary triangulation and lines of precise leveling in the interior. It now belongs to the Department of Commerce and Labor. 

COASTING:  Sailing along or near a coast, or running between ports along a coast. Coasting trade, trade carried on by water between neighboring ports of the same country, as distinguished fron foreign trade or trade involving long voyages.  -- Coasting vessel, a vessel employed in coasting; a coaster. 

COASTING:  By way of, or along, the coast. 

COATEE:  A coat with short flaps. 

COATI:  A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to the raccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose.  Note: The red coati (N. socialis), called also coati mondi, inhabits Mexico and Central America. The brown coati (N. narica) is found in Surinam and Brazil. 

COATLESS:  Not wearing a coat; also, not possessing a coat. 

COAX:  To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, or fondling; to wheedle; to soothe.  Syn.  -- To wheedle; cajole; flatter; persuade; entice. 

COAX:  A simpleton; a dupe. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 

COAXATION:  The act of croaking. [R] Dr. H. More. 

COAXER:  One who coaxes. 

COAXINGLY:  In a coaxing manner; by coaxing. 

COB:  A spider; perhaps from its shape; it being round like a head.  5. (Zoöl.)  A young herring. B. Jonson.  6. (Zoöl.)  A fish; -- also called miller's thumb.  7. A short-legged and stout horse, esp. one used for the saddle. [Eng.]  8. (Zoöl.)  A sea mew or gull; esp., the black-backed gull (Larus marinus). [Written also cobb.]  9. A lump or piece of anything, usually of a somewhat large size, as of coal, or stone.  10. A cobnut; as, Kentish cobs. See Cobnut. [Eng.]  11. Clay mixed with straw. [Prov. Eng.] The poor cottager contenteth himself with cob for his walls, and thatch for his covering. R. Carew.  12. A punishment consisting of blows inflicted on the buttocks with a strap or a flat piece of wood. Wright.  13. A Spanish coin formerly current in Ireland, worth abiut 4s. 6d. [Obs.] Wright. Cob coal, coal in rounded lumps from the size of an egg to that of a football; -- called also cobbles. Grose.  -- Cob loaf, a crusty, uneven loaf, rounded at top. Wright.  -- Cob money, a kind of rudely coined gold and silver money of Spanish South America in the eighteenth century. The coins were of the weight of the piece of eight, or one of its aliquot parts. 

COB:  To break into small pieces, as ore, so as to sort out its better portions. Raymond.  3. (Naut.)  To punish by striking on the buttocks with a strap, a flat piece of wood, or the like. 

COBAEA:  A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America. C. scandens is a consrvatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers. 

COBALT:  A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, not easily fusible, and somewhat magnetic. Atomic weight 59.1. Symbol Co.  Note: It occurs in nature in combination with arsenic, sulphur, and oxygen, and is obtained from its ores, smaltite, cobaltite, asbolite, etc. Its oxide colors glass or any flux, as borax, a fine blue, and is used in the manufacture of smalt. It is frequently associated with nickel, and both are characteristic ingredients of meteoric iron.  2. A commercial name of a crude arsenic used as fly poison. Cobalt bloom. Same as Erythrite.  -- Cobalt blue, a dark blue pigment consisting of some salt of cobalt, as the phosphate, ignited with alumina; -- called also cobalt ultramarine, and Thenard's blue.  -- Cobalt crust, earthy arseniate of cobalt.  -- Cobalt glance. (Min.) See Cobaltite.  -- Cobalt green, a pigment consisting essentially of the oxides of cobalt and zinc; -- called also Rinman's green.  -- Cobalt yellow (Chem.), a yellow crystalline powder, regarded as a double nitrite of cobalt and potassium. 

COBALTIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said especially of those compounds in which cobalt has higher valence; as, cobaltic oxide. Luteo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive series of complex yellow compounds of ammonia and cobaltic salts.  -- Roseo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive series of complex red compounds of cobalt and ammonia. Modifications of these are the purpureo-cobaltic compounds. 

COBALTIFEROUS:  Containing cobalt.  COBALTINE; COBALTITE Co"balt*ine, Co"balt*ite n. (Min.)  A mineral of a nearly silver-white color, composed of arsenic, sulphur, and cobalt. 

COBALTOUS:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said esp. of cobalt compounds in which the metal has its lower valence. Cobaltous chloride, a crystalline compound, CoCl2, of a pale rose color when hydrous, blue when dehydrated. Its solution is used for a sympathetic ink, the writing being nearly colorless when dried in the air, owing to absorbed moisture, and becoming bright blue when warmed. 

COBBING:  Haughty; purse-proud. See Cob, n., 2. [Obs.] Withals (1608). 

COBBLE:  A fishing boat. See Coble. 

COBBLE:  Cob coal. See under Cob. 

COBBLESTONE:  A large pebble; a rounded stone not too large to be handled; a small boulder; -- used for paving streets and for other purposes. 

COBELLIGERENT:  Carryng on war in conjunction with another power. 

COBELLIGERENT:  A nation or state that carries on war in connection with another. 

COBIA:  An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada); the crabeater; -- called also bonito, cubbyyew, coalfish, and sergeant fish. 

COBIRON:  An andiron with a knob at the top. Bacon. 

COBISHOP:  A joint or coadjutant bishop. Ayliffe. 

COBLE:  A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudder extending from two to four feet below the keel. It was originally used on the stormy coast of Yorkshire, England. 

COBNUT:  A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut.  2. A game played by children with nuts. 

COBOOSE:  See Caboose. 

COBOURG:  A thin worsted fabric for women's dresses. 

COBRA:  See Copra. 

COBRA:  The cobra de capello.  COBRA DE CAPELLO Co"bra de ca*pel"lo. Etym: [Pg., serpent of the hood.] (Zoöl.)  The hooded snake (Naia tripudians), a highly venomous serpent inhabiting India. 

COBSTONE:  Cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.] 

COBSWAN:  A large swan. B. Jonson. 

COBWALL:  A wall made of clay mixed with straw. 

COBWEB:  The European spotted flycatcher. Cobweb lawn, a fine linen, mentioned in 1640 as being in pieces of fifteen yards. Beck. Draper's Dict. Such a proud piece of cobweb lawn. Beau. & Fl. Cobweb micrometer, a micrometer in which threads of cobwed are substituted for wires. 

COBWEBBED:  Abounding in cobwebs. "The cobwebbed cottage." Young. 

COBWEBBY:  Abounding in cobwebs, or any fine web; resembling a cobweb. 

COBWORK:  Built of logs, etc., laid horizontally, with the ends dovetailed together at the corners, as in a log house; in marine work, often surrounding a central space filled with stones; as, a cobwork dock or breakwater. 

COCA:  The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca). In med., called Erythroxylon.  Note: Coca leaves resemble tea leaves in size, shape, and odor, and are chewed (with an alkali) by natives of Peru and Bolivia to impart vigor in prolonged exertion, or to sustain strength in absence of food. Mexican coca, an American herb (Richardsonia scabra), yielding a nutritious fodder. Its roots are used as a substitute for ipecacuanha. 

COCAINE:  A powerful alkaloid, C17H21NO4, obtained from the leaves of coca. It is a bitter, white, crystalline substance, and is remarkable for producing local insensibility to pain. 

COCAINISM:  A morbid condition produced by the habitual and excessive use of cocaine. -- Co*ca"in*ist, n. 

COCAINIZE:  To treat or anæsthetize with cocaine. -- Co*ca`in*i*za"tion (#), n. 

COCCIFEROUS:  Bearing or producing berries; bacciferous; as, cocciferrous trees or plants. 

COCCINELLA:  A genus of small beetles of many species. They and their larvæ feed on aphids or plant lice, and hence are of great benefit to man. Also called ladybirds and ladybugs. 

COCCOBACTERIUM:  One of the round variety of bacteria, a vegetable organism, generally less than a thousandth of a millimeter in diameter. 

COCCOLITE:  A granular variety of pyroxene, green or white in color. 

COCCOLITH:  One of a kind of minute, calcareous bodies, probably vegetable, often abundant in deep-sea mud. 

COCCOSPHERE:  A small, rounded, marine organism, capable of braking up into coccoliths. 

COCCOSTEUS:  An extinct genus of Devonian ganoid fishes, having the broad plates about the head studded with berrylike tubercles.  COCCULUS INDICUS Coc"cu*lus In"di*cus, n. Etym: [NL. cocculus (dim. of L. coccum kermes berry) + L. Indicus of India.] (Bot.)  The fruit or berry of the Anamirta Cocculus, a climbing plant of the East Indies. It is a poisonous narcotic and stimulant. 

COCCUS:  One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of hemipterous insects, including scale insects, and the cochineal insect (Coccus cacti).  3. (Biol.)  A form of bacteria, shaped like a globule. 

COCCYGEAL:  Of or pertaining to the coccyx; as, the coccygeal vertebræ. Coccygeal glands (Zoöl.) , glands situated at the base of the tail of birds. They secrete the oil with which the plumage is dressed. 

COCCYGEOUS:  Coccygeal. [R.] 

COCCYX:  The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man and tailless monkeys. It is composed of several vertebræ more or less consolidated. 

COCHINEAL:  A dyestuff consisting of the dried bodies of females of the Coccus cacti, an insect native in Mexico, Central America, etc., and found on several species of cactus, esp. Opuntia cochinellifera.  Note: These insects are gathered from the plant, killed by the application of heat, and exposed to the sun to dry. When dried they resemble small, rough berries or seeds, of a brown or purple color, and form the cochineal of the shops, which is used for making carmine, and also as a red dye.  Note: Cochineal contains as its essential coloring matter carminic acid, a purple red amorphous substance which yields carmine red.  COCHINEAL FIG Coch"i*neal fig, (Bot.)  A plant of Central and Southern Anerica, of the Cactus familly, extensively cultivated for the sake of the cochineal insect, which lives on it.  COCHIN FOWL Co"chin fowl`, (Zoöl.)  A large variety of the domestic fowl, originally from Cochin China (Anam). 

COCHLEA:  An appendage of the labyrinth of the internal ear, which is elongated and coiled into a spiral in mammals. See Ear. 

COCHLEAR:  Of or pertaining to the cochlea. 

COCHLEARE:  A spoonful. Dungleson. 

COCHLEARIFORM:  Spoon-shaped. 

COCHLEARY:  Same as Cochleate.  COCHLEATE; COCHLEATED Coch"le*ate, Coch"le*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. cochleatus spiral or screw- formed. See Cochlea.]  Having the form of a snail shell; spiral; turbinated. 

COCK:  To strut; to swagger; to look big, pert, or menacing. Addison. 

COCK:  The act of cocking; also, the turn so given; as, a cock of the eyes; to give a hat a saucy cock. 

COCK:  To draw the hammer of (a firearm) fully back and set it for firing. 

COCK:  To draw back the hammer of a firearm, and set it for firing. Cocked, fired, and missed his man. Byron. 

COCK:  A small concial pile of hay. 

COCK:  To put into cocks or heaps, as hay. Under the cocked hay. Spenser. 

COCK:  A small boat. Yond tall anchoring bark [appears] Diminished to her cock; her cock, a buoy Almost too small for sight. Shak. 

COCK:  A corruption or disguise of the word God, used in oaths. [Obs.] "By cock and pie." Shak. 

COCKADE:  A badge, usually in the form of a rosette, or knot, and generally worn upon the hat; -- used as an indication of military or naval service, or party allegiance, and in England as a part of the livery to indicate that the wearer is the servant of a military or naval officer. Seduced by military liveries and cockades. Burke. 

COCKADED:  Wearing a cockade. Young.  COCK-A-HOOP Cock`-a-hoop", a.  Boastful; defiant; exulting. Also used adverbially. 

COCKALEEKIE:  A favorite soup in Scotland, made from a capon highly seasoned, and boiled with leeks and prunes. 

COCKAMAROO:  The Russian variety of bagatelle. 

COCKATEEL:  An Australian parrot (Calopsitta Novæ-Hollandiæ); -- so called from its note. 

COCKATOO:  A bird of the Parrot family, of the subfamily Cacatuinæ, having a short, strong, and much curved beak, and the head ornamented with a crest, which can be raised or depressed at will. There are several genera and many species; as the broad-crested (Plictolophus, or Cacatua, cristatus), the sulphur-crested (P. galeritus), etc. The palm or great black cockatoo of Australia is Microglossus aterrimus. Cock"a*trice, n. Etym: [OF. cocatrice crocodile, F. cocatrix, cocatrice. The word is a corruption from the same source as E. crocodile, but was confused with cock the bird, F. coq, whence arose the fable that the animal was produced from a cock's egg. See Crocodile.]  1. A fabulous serpent whose breath and look were said to be fatal. See Basilisk. That bare vowel, I, shall poison more Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice. Shak.  2. (Her.)  A representation of this serpent. It has the head, wings, and legs of a bird, and tail of a serpent.  3. (Script.)  A venomous serpent which which cannot now be identified. The weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice's  Note: [Rev. Ver. basilisk's] den. Is. xi. 8.  4. Any venomous or deadly thing. This little cockatrice of a king. Bacon. 

COCKBILL:  To tilt up one end of so as to make almost vertical; as, to cockbill the yards as a sign of mourning. To cockbill the anchor, to suspend it from the cathead preparatory to letting it go. See Acockbill. 

COCKBOAT:  A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.  COCK-BRAINED Cock"-brained`, a.  Giddy; rash. Milton. 

COCKCHAFER:  A beetle of the genus Melolontha (esp. M. vulgaris) and allied genera; -- called also May bug, chafer, or dorbeetle.  COCKCROW; COCKCROWING Cock"crow, Cock"crow`ing, n.  The time at which cooks first crow; the early morning. 

COCKER:  Th treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; to pamper. Cocker thy child and he shall make thee afraid. Ecclesiasticus xxx. 9. Poor folks cannot afford to cocker themselves up. J. Ingelow. 

COCKER:  A small dog of the spaniel kind, used for starting up woodcocks, etc. 

COCKER:  A rustic high shoe or half-boots. [Obs.] Drayton. 

COCKEREL:  A young cock.  COCKER SPANIEL Cock"er span"iel.  One of a breed of small or medium-sized spaniels kept for hunting or retrieving game or for household pets. They usually weigh from eighteen to twenty-eight pounds. They have the head of fair length, with square muzzle, the ears long and set low, the legs short or of medium length, and the coat fine and silky, wavy but not curly. Various colors are bred, as black, liver, red, black and white, black and tan, etc. 

COCKET:  Pert; saucy. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

COCKET:  A customhouse seal; a certified document given to a shopper as a warrant that his goods have been duly enstered and have paid duty.  2. An office in a customhouse where goods intended for export are entered. [Eng.]  3. A measure for bread. [Obs.] Blount. 

COCKEYE:  A squinting eye. Forby. 

COCKEYE:  The socket in the ball of a millstone, which sits on the cockhead. 

COCKFIGHT:  A match or contest of gamecocks. 

COCKFIGHTING:  The act or practice of pitting gamecocks to fight. 

COCKFIGHTING:  Addicted to cockfighting. 

COCKHEAD:  The rounded or pointed top of a grinding mill spindle, forming a pivot on which the stone is balanced. 

COCKIELEEKIE:  Same as Cockaleekie. 

COCKING:  Cockfighting. Ben Jonson. 

COCKLE:  A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium, especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied to similar shells of other genera.  2. A cockleshell.  3. The mineral black tourmaline or schorl; -- so called by the Cornish miners. Raymond.  4. The fire chamber of a furnace. [Eng.] Knight.  5. A hop-drying kiln; an oast. Knight.  6. The dome of a heating furnace. Knight. Cockle hat, a hat ornamented with a cockleshell, the badge of a pilgrim. Shak.  -- Cockle stairs, winding or spiral stairs. 

COCKLE:  To cause to contract into wrinkles or ridges, as some kinds of cloth after a wetting. Cockling sea, waves dashing against each other with a short and quick motion. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

COCKLEBUR:  A coarse, composite weed, having a rough or prickly fruit; one of several species of the genus Xanthium; -- called also clotbur. 

COCKLED:  Inclosed in a shell. The tender horns of cockled snails. Shak. 

COCKLED:  Wrinkled; puckered. Showers soon drench the camlet's cockled grain. Gay. 

COCKLER:  One who takes and sells cockles. 

COCKLOFT:  An upper loft; a garret; the highest room in a building. Dryden. Swift. 

COCKMASTER:  One who breeds gamecocks. L'Estrange. 

COCKMATCH:  A cockfight. 

COCKNEY:  Of or relating to, or like, cockneys. 

COCKNEYDOM:  The region or home of cockneys; cockneys, collectively. Thackeray. 

COCKNEYFY:  To form with the manners or character of a cockney. [Colloq.] 

COCKNEYISH:  Characteristic of, or resembling, cockneys. 

COCKNEYISM:  The charasteristics, manners, or dialect, of a cockney.  COCK-PADDLE Cock"-pad`dle, n. [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)  See Lumpfish. [Scot.]  COCK-PADLE Cock"-pad`le, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)  See Lumpfish. [Scot.] 

COCKROACH:  An orthopterus insect of the genus Blatta, and allied genera.  Note: The species are numerous, especially in hot countries. Those most commonly infesting houses in Europe and North America are Blatta orientalis, a large species often called black beetle, and the Croton bug (Ectobia Germanica). 

COCKSCOMB:  A plant (Celosia cristata), of many varieties, cultivated for its broad, fantastic spikes of brilliant flowers; -- sometimes called garden cockscomb. Also the Pedicularis, or lousewort, the Rhinanthus Crista-galli, and the Onobrychis Crista-galli. 

COCKSHEAD:  (Bot.) A leguminous herb (Onobrychis Caput-galli), having small spiny-crested pods. 

COCKSHUT:  A kind of net to catch woodcock. [Obs.] Nares. Cockshut time or light, evening twilight; nightfall; -- so called in allusion to the tome at which the cockshut used to be spread. [Obs.] Shak. B. Jonson. 

COCKSPUR:  A variety of Cratægus, or hawthorn (C. Crus-galli), having long, straight thorns; -- called also Cockspur thorn. 

COCKSWAIN:  The steersman of a boat; a petty officer who has charge of a boat and its crew. 

COCKTAIL:  A horse, not of pure breed, but having only one eighth or one sixteenth impure blood in his veins. Darwin.  3. A mean, half-hearted fellow; a coward. [Slang, Eng.] It was in the second affair that poor little Barney showed he was a cocktail. Thackeray.  4. (Zoöl.)  A species of rove beetle; -- so called from its habit of elevating the tail. 

COCKUP:  A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Lates calcarifer); -- also called begti. 

COCKWEED:  Peppergrass. Johnson. 

COCKY:  Pert. [Slang]  COCKYOLLY BIRD; COCKYOLY BIRD Cock`y*ol"ly bird or Cock`y*ol"y bird. [Cf. Cock, fowl; Yellow.]  A pet name for any small bird.  COCO; COCO PALM Co"co, n. or Co"co palm.  See Cocoa.  COCOA; COCOA PALM Co"coa, n., Co"coa palm` Etym: [Sp. & Pg. coco cocoanut, in Sp. also, cocoa palm. The Portuguese name is said to have been given from the monkeylike face at the base of the nut, fr. Pg. coco a bugbear, an ugly mask to frighten children. Cf., however, Gr. (Bot.)  A palm tree producing the cocoanut (Cocos nucifera). It grows in nearly all tropical countries, attaining a height of sixty or eighty feet. The trunk is without branches, and has a tuft of leaves at the top, each being fifteen or twenty feet in length, and at the base of these the nuts hang in clusters; the cocoanut tree. 

COCOA:  A preparation made from the seeds of the chocolate tree, and used in making, a beverage; also the beverage made from cocoa or cocoa shells. Cocoa shells, the husks which separate from the cacao seeds in preparing them for use. 

COCOANUT:  The large, hard-shelled nut of the cocoa palm. It yields an agreeable milky liquid and a white meat or albumen much used as food and in making oil.  COCOBOLO; COCOBOLAS Co`co*bo"lo, Co`co*bo"las, n. Etym: [Sp. cocobolo.] (Bot.)  A very beautiful and hard wood, obtained in the West India Islands. It is used in cabinetmaking, for the handles of tools, and for various fancy articles. 

COCOONERY:  A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and forming cocoons. 

COCTIBLE:  Capable of being cooked. Blount. 

COCTILE:  Made by baking, or exposing to heat, as a brick. 

COCTION:  A West Indian wood, used for making flutes and other musical instruments. 

COD:  An important edible fish (Gadus morrhua), Taken in immense numbers on the northern coasts of Europe and America. It is especially abundant and large on the Grand Bank of Newfoundland. It is salted and dried in large quantities.  Note: There are several varieties; as shore cod, from shallow water; bank cod, from the distant banks; and rock cod, which is found among ledges, and is often dark brown or mottled with red. The tomcod is a distinct species of small size. The bastard, blue, buffalo, or cultus cod of the Pacific coast belongs to a distinct family. See Buffalo cod, under Buffalo. Cod fishery, the business of fishing for cod.  -- Cod line, an eighteen-thread line used in catching codfish. McElrath. 

CODA:  A few measures added beyond the natural termination of a composition. 

CODDER:  A gatherer of cods or peas. [Obs. or Prov.] Johnson. 

CODDING:  Lustful. [Obs.] Shak. 

CODDYMODDY:  A gull in the plumage of its first year. 

CODEFENDANT:  A joint defendant. Blackstone. 

CODEINE:  One of the opium alkaloids; a white crystalline substance, C18H21NO3, similar to and regarded as a derivative of morphine, but much feebler in its action; -- called also codeia. 

CODETTA:  A short passage connecting two sections, but not forming part of either; a short coda. 

CODFISH:  A kind of fish. Same as Cod. 

CODICAL:  Ralating to a codex, or a code. 

CODICIL:  A clause added to a will. 

CODICILLARY:  Of the nature of a codicil. 

CODIFICATION:  The act or process of codifying or reducing laws to a code. 

CODIFIER:  One who codifies. 

CODIFY:  To reduce to a code, as laws. 

CODILLA:  The coarse tow of flax and hemp. McElrath. 

CODILLE:  A term at omber, signifying that the game is won. Pope. 

CODIST:  A codifier; a maker of codes. [R.] 

CODLE:  See Coddle.  CODLIN; CODLING Cod"lin, Cod"ling, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. codæppel a quince.] (a) An apple fit to stew or coddle. (b) An immature apple. A codling when 't is almost an apple. Shak. Codling moth (Zoöl.), a small moth (Carpocapsa Pomonella), which in the larval state (known as the apple worm) lives in apples, often doing great damage to the crop. 

CODLING:  A young cod; also, a hake.  COD LIVER Cod" liv`er, n.  The liver of the common cod and allied species. Cod-liver oil, an oil obtained fron the liver of the codfish, and used extensively in medicine as a means of supplying the body with fat in cases of malnutrition. 

CODPIECE:  A part of male dress in front of the breeches, formerly made very conspicuous. Shak. Fosbroke. 

COECILIAN:  See Cæcilian. 

COEDUCATION:  An educating together, as of persons of different sexes or races. Co*ed`u*ca"tion*al (, a. 

COEFFICACY:  Joint efficacy. 

COEFFICIENCY:  Joint efficiency; coöperation. Glanvill. 

COEFFICIENT:  Coöperating; acting together to produce an effect. Co`ef*fi"cient*ly, adv. 

COEFFICIENT:  A number or letter put before a letter or quantity, known or unknown, to show how many times the latter is to be taken; as, 6x; bx; here 6 and b are coefficients of x.  3. (Physics)  A number, commonly used in computation as a factor, expressing the amount of some change or effect under certain fixed conditions as to temperature, length, volume, etc.; as, the coefficient of expansion; the coefficient of friction. Arbitrary coefficient (Math.), a literal coefficient placed arbitrarily in an algebraic, expression, the value of the coefficient being afterwards determined by the conditions of the problem. 

COEHORN:  A small bronze mortar mounted on a wooden block with handles, and light enough to be carried short distances by two men. 

COELACANTH:  Having hollow spines, as some ganoid fishes. 

COELECTRON:  See Electron.  COELENTERA; COELENTERATA Coe*len"te*ra or Coe*len`te*ra"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  A comprehensive group of Invertebrata, mostly marine, comprising the Anthozoa, Hydrozoa, and Ctenophora. The name implies that the stomach and body cavities are one. The group is sometimes enlarged so as to include the sponges. 

COELENTERATE:  Belonging to the Coelentra.  -- n.  One of the Coelentera. 

COELIA:  A cavity.  Note: The word is applied to the ventricles of the brain, the different venticles being indicated by prefixes like those characterizing the parts of the brain in which the cavities are found; as, epicoelia, mesocoelia, metacoelia, procoelia, etc. B. G. Wilder.  COELIAC; CELIAC Coe"li*ac, Ce"li*ac, a. Etym: [L. coeliacus, Gr.  Relating to the abdomen, or to the cavity of the abdomen. Coeliac artery (Anat.), the artery which issues from the aorta just below the diaphragm; -- called also coeliac axis.  -- Coeliac flux, Coeliac passion (Med.), a chronic flux or diarrhea of undigested food. 

COELODONT:  Having hollow teeth; -- said of a group lizards.  -- n.  One of a group of lizards having hollow teeth. 

COELOSPERMOUS:  Hollow-seeded; having the ventral face of the seedlike carpels incurved at the ends, as in coriander seed. 

COELUM:  See Body cavity, under Body. 

COEMPTION:  The act of buying the whole quantity of any commodity. [R.] Bacon. 

COENDOO:  The Brazilian porcupine (Cercolades, or Sphingurus, prehensiles), remarkable for its prehensile tail.  COENENCHYM; COENENCHYMA Coe*nen"chym, Coe*nen"chy*ma n. Etym: [NL. coenenchyma, fr. Gr. parenchyma.] (Zoöl.)  The common tissue which unites the polyps or zooids of a compound anthozoan or coral. It may be soft or more or less ossified. See Coral. 

COENESTHESIS:  Common sensation or general sensibility, as distinguished from the special sensations which are located in, or ascribed to, separate organs, as the eye and ear. It is supposed to depend on the ganglionic system. 

COENOBITE:  See Cenobite. 

COENOECIUM:  The common tissue which unites the various zooids of a bryozoan. 

COENOGAMY:  The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexual intercourse among its members; -- as in certain primitive tribes or communistic societies. [Written also cenogamy.] 

COENOSARC:  The common soft tissue which unites the polyps of a compound hydroid. See Hydroidea. 

COENURUS:  The larval stage of a tapeworm (Tænia coenurus) which forms bladderlike sacs in the brain of sheep, causing the fatal disease known as water brain, vertigo, staggers or gid.  Note: This bladder worm has on its surface numerous small heads, each of which, when swallowed by a dog, becomes a mature tapeworm in the dog's intestine. 

COEQUAL:  Being on an equality in rank or power.  -- n.  One who is on an equality with another. In once he come to be a cardinal, He'll make his cap coequal with the crown. Shak. 

COEQUALITY:  The state of being on an equality, as in rank or power. 

COEQUALLY:  With coequality. 

COERCIBLE:  Capable of being coerced.  -- Co*er"ci*ble*ness, n. 

COERCION:  The application to another of either physical or moral force. When the force is physical, and cannot be resisted, then the act produced by it is a nullity, so far as concerns the party coerced. When the force is moral, then the act, though voidable, is imputable to the party doing it, unless he be so paralyzed by terror as to act convulsively. At the same time coercion is not negatived by the fact of submission under force. "Coactus volui" (I consented under compulsion) is the condition of mind which, when there is volition forced by coercion, annuls the result of such coercion. Wharton. 

COERCITIVE:  Coercive. "Coercitive power in laws." Jer. Taylor. 

COERCIVE:  Serving or intended to coerce; having power to constrain.  -- Co*er"cive*ly, adv.  -- Co*er"cive*ness, n. Coercive power can only influence us to outward practice. Bp. Warburton. Coercive or Coercitive force (Magnetism), the power or force which in iron or steel produces a slowness or difficulty in imparting magnetism to it, and also interposes an obstacle to the return of a bar to its natural state when active magnetism has ceased. It plainly depends on the molecular constitution of the metal. Nichol. The power of resisting magnetization or demagnization is sometimes called coercive force. S. Thompson. 

COERULIGNONE:  A bluish violet, crystalline substance obtained in the purification of crude wood vinegar. It is regarded as a complex quinone derivative of diphenyl; -- called also cedriret. 

COESSENTIAL:  Partaking of the same essence.  -- Co`es*sen"tial*ly, adv. We bless and magnify that coessential Spirit, eternally proceeding from both [The Father and the Son]. Hooker. 

COESSENTIALITY:  Participation of the same essence. Johnson. 

COESTABLISHMENT:  Joint establishment. Bp. Watson. 

COESTATE:  Joint estate. Smolett. 

COETANEAN:  A personcoetaneous with another; a contemporary. [R.] A . . . coetanean of the late earl of SouthamptoAubrey. 

COETANEOUS:  Of the same age; beginning to exist at the same time; contemporaneous.  -- Co`e*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv. And all [members of the body] are coetaneous. Bentley. 

COETERNAL:  Equally eternal.  -- Co`e*ter"nal*ly, adv. Hail, holy Light, offspring of Heaven first born! Or of the Eternal coeternal beam. Milton. 

COETERNITY:  Existence from eternity equally with another eternal being; equal eternity. 

COEVAL:  Of the same age; existing during the same period of time, especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with. Silence! coeval with eternity! Pope. Oaks coeval spread a mournful shade. Cowper. 

COEVAL:  One of the same age; a contemporary. As if it were not enough to have outdone all your coevals in wit. Pope. 

COEVOUS:  Coeaval [Obs.] South. 

COEXECUTOR:  A joint executor. 

COEXECUTRIX:  A joint executrix. 

COEXIST:  To exist at the same time; -- sometimes followed by with. Of substances no one has any clear idea, farther than of certain simple ideas coexisting together. Locke. So much purity and integrity . . . coexisting with so much decay and so many infirmities. Warburton. 

COEXISTENCE:  Existence at the same time with another; -- contemporary existence. Without the help, or so much as the coexistence, of any condition. Jer. Taylor. 

COEXISTENT:  Existing at the same time with another.  -- n.  That which coexists with another. The law of coexistent vibrations. Whewell. 

COEXISTING:  Coexistent. Locke. 

COEXTEND:  To extend through the same space or time with another; to extend to the same degree. According to which the least body may be coextended with the greatest. Boyle. Has your English language one single word that is coextended through all these significations Bentley. 

COEXTENSION:  The act of extending equally, or the state of being equally extended. 

COEXTENSIVE:  Equally extensive; having as, consciousness and knowledge are coextensive. Sir W. Hamilton.  -- Co`ex*ten"sive*ly, adv.  -- Co`ex*ten"sive*ness, n. 

COFFEEHOUSE:  A house of entertainment, where guests are supplied with coffee and other refreshments, and where men meet for conversation. The coffeehouse must not be dismissed with a cursory mention. It might indeed, at that time, have been not improperly called a most important political institution . . . The coffeehouses were the chief organs through which the public opinion of the metropolis vented itself . . . Every man of the upper or middle class went daily to his coffeehouse to learn the news and discuss it. Every coffeehouse had one or more orators, to whose eloquence the crowd listened with admiration, and who soon became what the journalists of our own time have been called -- a fourth estate of the realm. Macaulay. 

COFFEEMAN:  One who keeps a coffeehouse. Addison. 

COFFEEPOT:  A covered pot im which coffee is prepared, 

COFFEEROOM:  A public room where coffee and other refreshments may be obtained. 

COFFER:  A panel deeply recessed in the ceiling of a vault, dome, or portico; a caisson.  4. (Fort.)  A trench dug in the botton of a dry moat, and extending across it, to enable the besieged to defend it by a raking fire.  5. The chamber of a canal lock; also, a caisson or a cofferdam. Coffer dam. (Engin.) See Cofferdam, in the Vocabulary.  -- Coffer fish. (Zoöl.) See Cowfish. 

COFFER:  To secure from leaking, as a chaft, by ramming clay behind the masonry or timbering. Raymond.  3. To form with or in a coffer or coffers; to turnish with a coffer or coffers. 

COFFERDAM:  A water-tight inclosure, as of piles packed with clay, from which the water is pumped to expose the bottom (of a river, etc.) and permit the laying of foundations, building of piers, etc. 

COFFERER:  One who keeps treasures in a coffer. [R.] 

COFFERWORK:  Rubblework faced with stone. Knight. 

COFFIN:  The hollow crust or hoof of a horse's foot, below the coronet, in which is the coffin bone. Coffin bone, the foot bone of the horse and allied animals, inclosed within the hoof, and corresponding to the third phalanx of the middle finger, or toe, of most mammals.  -- Coffin joint, the joint next above the coffin bone. 

COFFIN:  To inclose in, or as in, a coffin. Would'st thou have laughed, had I come coffined home Shak. Devotion is not coffined in a cell. John Hall (1646). 

COFFINLESS:  Having no coffin. 

COFFLE:  A gang of negro slaves being driven to market. 

COG:  To deceive; to cheat; to play false; to lie; to wheedle; to cajole. For guineas in other men's breeches, Your gamesters will palm and will cog. Swift. 

COG:  A trick or deception; a falsehood. Wm. Watson. 

COG:  A tooth, cam, or catch for imparting or receiving motion, as on a gear wheel, or a lifter or wiper on a shaft; originally, a separate piece of wood set in a mortise in the face of a wheel.  2. (Carp.) (a) A kind of tenon on the end of a joist, received into a notch in a bearing timber, and resting flush with its upper surface. (b) A tenon in a scarf joint; a coak. Knight.  3. (Mining.)  One of the rough pillars of stone or coal left to support the roof of a mine. 

COG:  To furnish with a cog or cogs. Cogged breath sound (Auscultation), a form of interrupted respiration, in which the interruptions are very even, three or four to each inspiration. Quain. 

COG:  A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

COGENCY:  The quality of being cogent; power of compelling conviction; conclusiveness; force. An antecedent argument of extreme cogency. J. H. Newman. 

COGENIAL:  Congenial. [Obs.] 

COGENTLY:  In a cogent manner; forcibly; convincigly; conclusively. Locke. 

COGGER:  A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper. 

COGGERY:  Trick; deception. Bp. Watson. 

COGGLE:  A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

COGGLE:  A cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

COGITABILITY:  The quality of being cogitable; conceivableness. 

COGITABLE:  Capable of being brought before the mind as a throught or idea; conceivable; thinkable. Creation is cogitable by us only as a putting forth of divine power. Sir W. Hamilton. 

COGITABUND:  Full of thought; thoughtful. [R.] Leigh Hunt. 

COGITATE:  To engage in continuous thought; to think. He that calleth a thing into his mind, whether by impression or recordation, cogitateth and considereth, and he that employeth the faculty of his fancy also cogitateth. Bacon. 

COGITATE:  To think over; to plan. He . . . is our witness, how we both day and night, revolving in our minds, did cogitate nothing more than how to satisfy the parts of a good pastor. Foxe. 

COGITATION:  The act of thinking; thought; meditation; contemplation. "Fixed in cogitation deep." Milton. 

COGMAN:  A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth. [Obs.] Wright. 

COGNAC:  A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac. 

COGNATE:  One who is related to another on the female side. Wharton.  2. One of a number of things allied in origin or nature; as, certain letters are cognates. 

COGNATENESS:  The state of being cognate. 

COGNATI:  Relatives by the mother's side. Wharton. 

COGNATION:  That tie of consanguinity which exists between persons descended from the same mother; -- used in distinction from agnation. 

COGNATUS:  A person cinnected through cognation.  COGNISOR; COGNISEE Cog`ni*sor" ( or ), Cog`ni*see, n.  See Cognizor, Cognizee. 

COGNITIVE:  Knowing, or apprehending by the understanding; as, cognitive power. South. 

COGNIZABLY:  In a cognizable manner. 

COGNIZANT:  Having cognizance or knowledge. (of). 

COGNIZE:  To know or perceive; to recognize. The reasoning faculty can deal with no facts until they are cognized by it. H. Spencer. 

COGNIZEE:  One to whom a fine of land was ackowledged. Blackstone. 

COGNIZOR:  One who ackowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in a fine; the defendant. Blackstone. 

COGNOMEN:  A surname. 

COGNOMINAL:  Of or pertaining to a cognomen; of the nature of a surname. 

COGNOMINAL:  One bearing the same name; a namesake. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

COGNOMINATION:  A cognomen or surname. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

COGNOSCENCE:  Cognizance. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

COGNOSCENTE:  A conoisseur. Mason. 

COGNOSCIBILITY:  The quality of being cognoscible. Cudworth. 

COGNOSCITIVE:  Having the power of knowing. [Obs.] "An innate cognoscitive power." Cudworth. 

COGNOVIT:  An instrument in writting whereby a defendant in an action acknowledges a plaintiff's demand to be just. Mozley & W. 

COGON:  A tall, coarse grass (Imperata arundinacea) of the Philippine Islands and adjacent countries, used for thatching. 

COGUARDIAN:  A joint guardian. 

COGUE:  A small wooden vessel; a pail. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

COGWARE:  A coarse, narrow cloth, like frieze, used by the lower classes in the sixteenth century. Halliwell. 

COGWHEEL:  A wheel with cogs or teeth; a gear wheel. See Illust. of Gearing. 

COHABITANT:  One who dwells with another, or in the same place or country. No small number of the Danes became peaceable cohabitants with the Saxons in England. Sir W. Raleigh. 

COHABITATION:  The living together of a man and woman in supposed sexual relationship. That the duty of cohabitation is released by the cruelty of one of the parties is admitted. Lord Stowell. 

COHABITER:  A cohabitant. Hobbes. 

COHEIR:  A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitled to an inheritance. 

COHEIRESS:  A female heir who inherits with other heiresses; a joint heiress. 

COHEIRSHIP:  The state of being a coheir. 

COHERALD:  A joint herald. 

COHERENTLY:  In a coherent manner. 

COHERER:  Any device in which an imperfectly conducting contact between pieces of metal or other conductors loosely resting against each other is materially improved in conductivity by the influence of Hertzian waves; -- so called by Sir O. J. Lodge in 1894 on the assumption that the impact of the electic waves caused the loosely connected parts to cohere, or weld together, a condition easily destroyed by tapping. A common form of coherer as used in wireless telegraphy consists of a tube containing filings (usually a pinch of nickel and silver filings in equal parts) between terminal wires or plugs (called conductor plugs). 

COHESIBILITY:  The state of being cohesible. Good. 

COHESIBLE:  Capable of cohesion. 

COHESION:  That from of attraction by which the particles of a body are united throughout the mass, whether like or unlike; -- distinguished from adhesion, which unites bodies by their adjacent surfaces. Solids and fluids differ in the degree of cohesion, which, being increased, turns a fluid into a solid. Arbuthnot.  3. Logical agreement and dependence; as, the cohesion of ideas. Locke. 

COHIBIT:  To restrain. [Obs.] Bailey. 

COHIBITION:  Hindrance; restraint. [Obs.] 

COHOBATE:  To repeat the distillation of, pouring the liquor back upon the matter remaining in the vessel. Arbuthnot. 

COHOBATION:  The process of cohobating. Grew. 

COHORN:  See Coehorn. 

COHORT:  A body of about five or six hundred soldiers; the tenth part of a legion.  2. Any band or body of warriors. With him the cohort bright Of watchful cherubim. Milton.  3. (Bot.)  A natural group of orders of plants, less comprehensive than a class. 

COHOSH:  A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides), whose roostock is used in medicine; -- also called pappoose root. The name is sometimes also given to the Cimicifuga racemosa, and to two species of Actæa, plants of the Crowfoot family.  COHUNE; COHUNE PALM Co*hune", n., or Cohune palm . [Prob. fr. a native name in Honduras.]  A Central and South American pinnate-leaved palm (Attalea cohune), the very large and hard nuts of which are turned to make fancy articles, and also yield an oil used as a substitute for coconut oil. 

COIF:  A cap. Specifically: (a) A close-fitting cap covering the sides of the head, like a small hood without a cape. (b) An official headdress, such as that worn by certain judges in England. [Writting also quoif.] From point and saucy ermine down To the plain coif and russet gown. H. Brocke. The judges, . . . althout they are not of the first magnitude, nor need be of the degree of the coif, yet are they considerable. Bacon. 

COIF:  To cover or dress with, or as with, a coif. And coif me, where I'm bald, with flowers. J. G. Cooper. 

COIFED:  Wearing a coif. 

COIFFEUR:  A hairdresser. 

COIFFURE:  A headdress, or manner of dressing the hair. Addison. 

COIGN:  A var. spelling of Coin, Quoin, a corner, wedge; -- chiefly used in the phrase coign of vantage, a position advantageous for action or observation.  From some shielded nook or coign of vantage. The Century.  The lithosphere would be depressed on four faces; . . . the four projecting coigns would stand up as continents. Nature. 

COIGNE:  A quoin. See you yound coigne of the Capitol yon corner stone Shak.  COIGNE; COIGNY Coigne, Coign"y, n.  The practice of quartering one's self as landlord on a tenant; a quartering of one's self on anybody. [Ireland] Spenser. 

COIL:  To wind itself cylindrically or spirally; to form a coil; to wind; -- often with about or around. You can see his flery serpents . . . Coiting, playing in the water. Longfellow. 

COIL:  A noise, tumult, bustle, or confusion. [Obs.] Shak. 

COILON:  A testicle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COIN:  To manufacture counterfeit money. They cannot touch me for coining. Shak. 

COINCIDENCY:  Coincidence. [R.] 

COINCIDENT:  Having coincidence; occupying the same place; contemporaneous; concurrent; -- followed by with. Christianity teaches nothing but what is perfectly suitable to, and coincident with, the ruling principles of a virtuous and well- inclined man. South. 

COINCIDENT:  One of two or more coincident events; a coincidence. [R.] "Coincidents and accidents." Froude. 

COINCIDENTAL:  Coincident. 

COINCIDENTLY:  With coincidence. 

COINCIDER:  One who coincides with another in an opinion. 

COINDICATION:  One of several signs or sumptoms indicating the same fact; as, a coindication of disease. 

COINHABITANT:  One who dwells with another, or with others. "Coinhabitants of the same element." Dr. H. More. 

COINHERE:  To inhere or exist together, as in one substance. Sir W. Hamilton. 

COINHERITANCE:  Joint inheritance. 

COINHERITOR:  A coheir. 

COINITIAL:  Having a common beginning. 

COINQUINATE:  Topollute. [Obs.] Skelton. 

COINQUINATION:  Defilement. [Obs.] 

COINSTANTANEOUS:  Happening at the same instant. C. Darwin. 

COINSURANCE:  Insurance jointly with another or others; specif., that system of fire insurance in which the insurer is treated as insuring himself to the extent of that part of the risk not covered by his policy, so that any loss is apportioned between him and the insurance company on the principle of average, as in marine insurance or between other insurers. 

COINTENSE:  Equal in intensity or degree; as, the relations between 6 and 12, and 8 and 16, are cointense. H. Spencer. 

COINTENSION:  The condition of being of equal in intensity; -- applied to relations; as, 3 : 6 and 6 : 12 are relations of cointension. Cointension . . . is chosen indicate the equality of relations in respect of the contrast between their terms. H. Spencer. 

COIT:  A quoit. [Obs.] Carew. 

COIT:  To throw, as a stone. [Obs.] See Quoit. 

COITION:  A coming together; sexual intercourse; copulation. Grew. 

COJOIN:  To join; to conjoin. [R.] Shak. 

COJUROR:  One who swears to another's credibility. W. Wotton. 

COKE:  Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, or other volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or by distillation, as in gas works. It is lagerly used where [Written also coak.] Gas coke, the coke formed in gas retorts, as distinguished from that made in ovens. 

COKE:  To convert into coke. 

COKENAY:  A cockney. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COKERNUT:  The cocoanut.  Note: A mode of spelling introduced by the London customhouse to distinguish more widely between this and other articles spelt much in the same manner. 

COKES:  A simpleton; a gull; a dupe. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

COKEWOLD:  Cuckold. [Obs.] Chaucer.  COL; COL- Col  - (with, together. See Com-. 

COL:  A short ridge connecting two higher elevations or mountains; the pass over such a ridge. 

COLA:  L. pl. of Colon. 

COLABORER:  One who labors with another; an associate in labor. 

COLANDER:  A utensil with a bottom perforated with little holes for straining liquids, mashed vegetable pulp, etc.; a strainer of wickerwork, perfprated metal, or the like.  COLA NUT; COLA SEED Cola nut, Cola seed. (Bot.)  The bitter fruit of Cola acuminata, which is nearly as large as a chestnut, and furnishes a stimulant, which is used in medicine. 

COLATION:  The act or process of straining or filtering. [R.] 

COLATITUDE:  The complement of the latitude, or the difference between any latitude and ninety degrees. 

COLATURE:  The process of straining; the matter strained; a strainer. [R.] 

COLBERTINE:  A kind of lace. [Obs.] Pinners edged with colbertine. Swift. Difference rose between Mechlin, the queen of lace, and colbertine. Young. 

COLCHICINE:  A powerful vegetable alkaloid, C17H19NO5, extracted from the Colchicum autumnale, or meadow saffron, as a white or yellowish amorphous powder, with a harsh, bitter taste; -- called also colchicia. 

COLCHICUM:  A genus of bulbous-rooted plants found in many parts of Europe, including the meadow saffron.  Note: Preparations made from the poisonous bulbs and seeds, and perhaps from the flowers, of the Colchicum autumnale (meadow saffron) are used as remedies for gout and rheumatism. 

COLCOTHAR:  Polishing rouge; a reddish brown oxide of iron, used in polishing glass, and also as a pigment; -- called also crocus Martis. 

COLD:  Having a bluish effect. Cf. Warm, 8. Cold abscess. See under Abscess.  -- Cold blast See under Blast, n., 2. Cold blood. See under Blood, n., 8.  -- Cold chill, an ague fit. Wright.  -- Cold chisel, a chisel of peculiar strength and hardness, for cutting cold metal. Weale.  -- Cold cream. See under Cream.  -- Cold slaw. See Cole slaw.  -- In cold blood, without excitement or passion; deliberately. He was slain in cold blood after thefight was over. Sir W. Scott. To give one the cold shoulder, to treat one with neglect.  Syn.  -- Gelid; bleak; frigid; chill; indifferent; unconcerned; passionless; reserved; unfeeling; stoical. 

COLD:  A morbid state of the animal system produced by exposure to cold or dampness; a catarrh. Cold sore (Med.), a vesicular eruption appearing about the mouth as the result of a cold, or in the course of any disease attended with fever.  -- To leave one out in the cold, to overlook or neglect him. [Colloq.] Cold, v. i.  To become cold. [Obs.] Chaucer.  COLD-BLOODED Cold"-blood`ed, a.  1. Having cold blood; -- said of fish or animals whose blood is but little warmer than the water or air about them.  2. Deficient in sensibility or feeling; hard-hearted.  3. Not thoroughbred; -- said of animals, as horses, which are derived from the common stock of a country. 

COLDFINCH:  A British wagtail.  COLD-HEARTED Cold"-heart`ed, a.  Wanting passion or feeling; indifferent.  -- Cold"-heart`ed*ness, n. 

COLDISH:  Somewhat cold; cool; chilly. 

COLDLY:  In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; with indifference; calmly. Withdraw unto some private place, And reason coldly of your grievances. Shak. 

COLDNESS:  The state or quality of being cold.  COLD-SHORT Cold"-short`, a.  Brittle when cold; as, cold-short iron.  COLD-SHUT Cold"-shut`, a. (Metal.)  Closed while too cold to become thoroughly welded; -- said of a forging or casting.  -- n.  An imperfection caused by such insufficient welding.  COLD WAVE Cold" wave". (Meteor.)  In the terminology of the United States Weather Bureau, an unusual fall in temperature, to or below the freezing point, exceeding 16º in twenty-four hours or 20º in thirty-six hours, independent of the diurnal range. 

COLE:  A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B. oleracea called rape and coleseed.  CO-LEGATEE Co-leg`a*tee", n.  A joint legatee. 

COLEGOOSE:  See Coalgoose. 

COLEMANITE:  A hydrous borate of lime occurring in transparent colorless or white crystals, also massive, in Southern California. 

COLEMOUSE:  See Coletit. 

COLEOPTER:  One of the Coleoptera. 

COLEOPTERA:  An order of insects having the anterior pair of wings (elytra) hard and horny, and serving as coverings for the posterior pair, which are membranous, and folded transversely under the others when not in use. The mouth parts form two pairs of jaws (mandibles and maxillæ) adapted for chewing. Most of the Coleoptera are known as beetles and weevils.  COLEOPTERAL; COLEOPTEROUS Co`le*op"ter*al, Co`le*op"ter*ous a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)  Having wings covered with a case or sheath; belonging to the Coleoptera. 

COLEOPTERAN:  One of the order of Coleoptera. 

COLEOPTERIST:  One versed in the study of the Coleoptera. 

COLEORHIZA:  A sheath in the embryo of grasses, inclosing the caulicle. Gray. 

COLEPERCH:  A kind of small black perch. 

COLERA:  Bile; choler. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COLERIDGIAN:  Pertaining to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, or to his poetry or metaphysics. 

COLESEED:  The common rape or cole. 

COLESLAW:  A salad made of sliced cabbage.  CO-LESSEE Co`-les*see", n.  A partner in a lease taen.  CO-LESSOR Co`-les*sor", n.  A partner in giving a lease. 

COLESTAFF:  See Colstaff.  COLET; COLLET Col"et, Col"letEtym: [Corrupted fr. acolyte.]  An inferior church servant. [Obs.] See Acolyte.  COLETIT; COALTIT Cole"tit` or Coal"tit, n. (Zoöl.)  A small European titmouse (Parus ater), so named from its black color; -- called also coalmouse and colemouse. 

COLEUS:  A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated for its bright-colored or variegated leaves. 

COLFOX:  A crafty fox. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COLIC:  A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm, obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera. Hepatic colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a gallstone from the liver or gall bladder through the bile duct.  -- Intestinal colic, or Ordinary colic, pain due to distention of the intestines by gas.  -- Lead colic, Painter's colic, a violent form of intestinal colic, associated with obstinate constipation, produced by chronic lead poisoning.  -- Renal colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a calculus from the kidney through the ureter.  -- Wind colic. See Intestinal colic, above. 

COLIC:  Of or pertaining to the colon; as, the colic arteries. 

COLICAL:  Of, pertaining to, or of the nature of, colic. Swift. 

COLICKY:  Pertaining to, or troubled with, colic; as, a colicky disorder. 

COLICROOT:  A bitter American herb of the Bloodwort family, with the leaves all radical, and the small yellow or white flowers in a long spike (Aletris farinosa and A. aurea). Called sometimes star grass, blackroot, blazing star, and unicorn root. 

COLIN:  The American quail or bobwhite. The name is also applied to other related species. See Bobwhite. 

COLISEUM:  The amphitheater of Vespasian at Rome, the largest in the world. [Written also Colosseum.] 

COLITIS:  An inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucous membrane; colonitis. 

COLL:  To embrace. [Obs.] "They coll and kiss him." Latimer. 

COLLABORATEUR:  See Collaborator. 

COLLABORATION:  The act ofworking together; united labor. 

COLLABORATOR:  An associate in labor, especially in literary or scientific labor. 

COLLAGEN:  The chemical basis of ordinary connective tissue, as of tendons or sinews and of bone. On being boiled in water it becomes gelatin or glue. 

COLLAGENOUS:  Containing or resembling collagen. 

COLLAPSE:  Extreme depression or sudden failing o 

COLLAPSION:  Collapse. [R.] Johnson. 

COLLAR:  The neck or line of junction between the root of a plant and its stem. Gray.  4. An ornament worn round the neck by knights, having on it devises to designate their rank or order.  5. (Zoöl.) (a) A ringlike part of a mollusk in connection with esophagus. (b) A colored ring round the neck of a bird or mammal.  6. (Mech.)  A ring or round flange upon, surrounding, or against an object, and used for rastraining motion within given limits, or for holding something to its place, or for hibing an opening around an object; as, a collar on a shaft, used to prevent endwise motion of the shaft; a collar surrounding a stovepipe at the place where it enters a wall. The flanges of a piston and the gland of a stuffing box are sometimes called collars.  7. (Naut.)  An eye formed in the bight or bend of a shroud or stay to go over the masthead; also, a rope to which certain parts of rigging, as dead-eyes, are secured.  8. (Mining)  A curb, or a horizontal timbering, around the mouth of a shaft. Raymond. Collar beam (Arch.), a horizontal piece of timber connecting and tying together two opposite rafters; -- also, called simply collar.  -- Collar of brawn, the quantity of brawn bound up in one parcel. [Eng.] Johnson.  -- Collar day, a day of great ceremony at the English court, when persons, who are dignitaries of honorary orders, wear the collars of those orders.  -- To slip the collar, to get free; to disentangle one's self from difficulty, labor, or engagement. Spenser. 

COLLAR:  The clavicle. 

COLLARDS:  Young cabbage, used as "greens"; esp. a kind cultivated for that purpose; colewort. [Colloq. Souther U. S.] 

COLLARED:  Wearing a collar; -- said of a man or beast used as a bearing when a collar is represented as worn around the neck or loins.  3. Rolled up and bound close with a string; as, collared beef. See To collar beef, under Collar, v. t.  COLLARET; COLLARETTE Col`lar*et",  Col`la*rette", n. [F. collerette, dim. of collier. See Collar.]  A small collar; specif., a woman's collar of lace, fur, or other fancy material. 

COLLATABLE:  Capable of being collated. Coleridge. 

COLLATE:  To present and institute in a benefice, when the person presenting is both the patron and the ordinary; -- followed by to.  4. To bestow or confer. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

COLLATE:  To place in a benefice, when the person placing is both the patron and the ordinary. If the bishop neglets to collate within six months, the right to do it devolves on the archbishop. Encyc. Brit. 

COLLATERAL:  Descending from the same stock or ancestor, but not in the same line or branch or one from the other; -- opposed to lineal.  Note: Lineal descendants proceed one from another in a direct line; collateral relations spring from a common ancestor, but from different branches of that common stirps or stock. Thus the children of brothers are collateral relations, having different fathers, but a common grandfather. Blackstone.  Collateral assurance, that which is made, over and above the deed itself.  -- Collateral circulation (Med. & Physiol.), circulation established through indirect or subordinate branches when the supply through the main vessel is obstructed.  -- Collateral issue. (Law) (a) An issue taken upon a matter aside from the merits of the case. (b) An issue raised by a criminal convict who pleads any matter allowed by law in bar of execution, as pardon, diversity of person, etc. (c) A point raised, on cross- examination, aside from the issue fixed by the pleadings, as to which the answer of the witness, when given, cannot subsequently be contradicted by the party asking the question.  -- Collateral security, security for the performance of covenants, or the payment of money, besides the principal security, 

COLLATERALNESS:  The state of being collateral. 

COLLATION:  The gathering and examination of sheets preparatory to binding.  3. The act of conferring or bestowing. [Obs.] Not by the collation of the king . . . but by the people. Bacon.  4. A conference. [Obs.] Chaucer.  5. (Eccl. Law)  The presentation of a clergyman to a benefice by a bishop, who has it in his own gift.  6. (Law) (a) The act of comparing the copy of any paper with its original to ascertain its conformity. (b) The report of the act made by the proper officers.  7. (Scots Law)  The right which an heir has of throwing the whole heritable and movable estates of the deceased into one mass, and sharing it equaly with others who are of the same degree of kindred.  Note: This also obtains in the civil law, and is found in the code of Louisiana. Bouvier.  8. (Eccles.)  A collection of the Lives of the Fathers or other devout work read daily in monasteries.  9. A light repast or luncheon; as, a cold collation; -- first applied to the refreshment on fast days that accompanied the reading of the collation in monasteries. A collation of wine and sweetmeats. Whiston. Collation of seals (Old Law), a method of ascertaining the genuineness of a seal by comparing it with another known to be genuine. Bouvier. 

COLLATION:  To partake of a collation. [Obs.] May 20, 1658, I . . . collationed in Spring Garden. Evelyn. 

COLLATIONER:  One who examines the sheets of a book that has just been printed, to ascertain whether they are correctly printed, paged, etc. [Eng.] 

COLLATITIOUS:  Brought together; contributed; done by contributions. [Obs.] Bailey. 

COLLATIVE:  Passing or held by collation; -- said of livings of which the bishop and the patron are the same person. 

COLLATOR:  One who collates to a benefice.  3. One who confers any benefit. [Obs.] Feltham. 

COLLAUD:  To join in praising. [Obs.] Howell. 

COLLEAGUE:  A partner or associate in some civil or ecclesiastical office or employment. It is never used of partners in trade or manufactures.  Syn.  -- Helper; assistant; coadjutor; ally; associate; companion; confederate. 

COLLEAGUE:  To unite or associate with another or with others. [R.] Shak. 

COLLEAGUESHIP:  Partnership in office. Milton. 

COLLECT:  A short, comprehensive prayer, adapted to a particular day, occasion, or condition, and forming part of a liturgy. The noble poem on the massacres of Piedmont is strictly a collect in verse. Macaulay. 

COLLECTANEA:  Passages selected from various authors, usually for purposes of instruction; miscellany; anthology. 

COLLECTEDLY:  Composedly; coolly. 

COLLECTEDNESS:  A collected state of the mind; self-possession. 

COLLECTIBLE:  Capable of being collected. 

COLLECTIONAL:  Of or pertaining to collecting. The first twenty-five [years] must have been wasted for collectional purposes. H. A. Merewether. 

COLLECTIVE:  Expressing a collection or aggregate of individuals, by a singular form; as, a collective name or noun, like assembly, army, juri, etc.  4. Tending to collect; forming a collection. Local is his throne . . . to fix a point, A central point, collective of his sons. Young.  5. Having plurality of origin or authority; as, in diplomacy, a note signed by the representatives of several governments is called a collective note. Collective fruit (Bot.), that which is formed from a mass of flowers, as the mulberry, pineapple, and the like; -- called also multiple fruit. Gray. 

COLLECTIVE:  A collective noun or name. 

COLLECTIVELY:  In a mass, or body; in a collected state; in the aggregate; unitedly. 

COLLECTIVENESS:  A state of union; mass. 

COLLECTIVISM:  The doctrine that land and capital should be owned by society collectively or as a whole; communism. W. G. Summer. 

COLLECTIVIST:  An advocate of collectivism.  -- a.  Relating to, or characteristic of, collectivism. 

COLLECTOR:  An officer appointed and commissioned to collect and receive customs, duties, taxes, or toll. A great part of this is now embezzled . . . by collectors, and other officers. Sir W. Temple.  4. One authorized to collect debts.  5. A bachelor of arts in Oxford, formerly appointed to superintend some scholastic proceedings in Lent. Todd. 

COLLECTORATE:  The district of a collector of customs; a collectorship. 

COLLECTORSHIP:  The office of a collector of customs or of taxes. 

COLLEEN:  A girl; a maiden. [Anglo-Irish]  Of all the colleens in the land Sweet Mollie is the daisy. The Century. 

COLLEGATARY:  A joint legatee. 

COLLEGIAL:  Collegiate. [R.] 

COLLEGIAN:  A member of a college, particularly of a literary institution so called; a student in a college. 

COLLEGIATE:  Of or pertaining to a college; as, collegiate studies; a collegiate society. Johnson. Collegiate church. (a) A church which, although not a bishop's seat, resembles a cathedral in having a college, or chapter of canons (and, in the Church of England, a dean), as Westminster Abbey. (b) An association of churches, possessing common revenues and administered under the joint pastorate of several ministers; as, the Reformed (Dutch) Collegiate Church of New York. 

COLLEGIATE:  A member of a college. Burton. 

COLLEMBOLA:  The division of Thysanura which includes Podura, and allied forms. 

COLLENCHYMA:  A tissue of vegetable cells which are thickend at the angles and (usually) elongated. 

COLLET:  A small metal ring; a small collar fastened on an arbor; as, the collet on the balance arbor of a watch; a small socket on a stem, for holding a drill.  3. (Jewelry) (a) The part of a ring containing the bezel in which the stone is set. (b) The flat table at the base of a brilliant. See Illust. of Brilliant. How full the collet with his jewel is! Cowley. 

COLLETERIAL:  Of or pertaining to the colleterium of insects. R. Owen. 

COLLETERIUM:  An organ of female insects, containing a cement to unite the ejected ova. 

COLLETIC:  Agglutinant.  -- n.  An agglutinant. 

COLLEY:  See Collie. 

COLLIDE:  To strike or dash against each other; to come into collision; to clash; as, the vessels collided; their interests collided. Across this space the attraction urges them. They collide, they recoil, they oscillate. Tyndall. No longer rocking and swaying, but clashing and colliding. Carlyle. 

COLLIDE:  To strike or dash against. [Obs.] Scintillations are . . . inflammable effluencies from the bodies collided. Sir T. Browne. 

COLLIDINE:  One of a class of organic bases, C8H11N, usually pungent oily liquids, belonging to the pyridine series, and obtained from bone oil, coal tar, naphtha, and certain alkaloids. 

COLLIE:  The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-haired and smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayed especially in caring for flocks. [Written also colly, colley.] 

COLLIED:  Darkened. See Colly, v. t. 

COLLIFLOWER:  See Cauliflower. 

COLLIGATE:  To bring together by colligation; to sum up in a single proposition. He had discovered and colligated a multitude of the most wonderful . . . phenomena. Tundall. 

COLLIGATE:  Bound together. 

COLLIGATION:  That process by which a number of isolated facts are brought under one conception, or summed up in a general proposition, as when Kepler discovered that the various observed positions of the planet Mars were points in an ellipse. "The colligation of facts." Whewell. Colligation is not always induction, but induction is always colligation. J. S. Mill. 

COLLIMATE:  To render parallel to a certain line or direction; to bring into the same line, as the axes of telescopes, etc.; to render parallel, as rays of light.  Collimating eyepiece, an eyepiece with a diagonal reflector for illumination, used to determine the error of collimation in a transit instrument by observing the image of a cross wire reflected from mercury, and comparing its position in the field with that of the same wire seen directly.  -- Collimating lens (Optics), a lens used for producing parallel rays of light. 

COLLIMATION:  The act of collimating; the adjustment of the line of the sights, as the axial line of the telescope of an instrument, into its proper position relative to the other parts of the instrument. Error of collimation, the deviation of the line collimation of an astronomical instrument from the position it ought to have with respect to the axis of motion of the instrument.  -- Line of collimation, the axial line of the telescope of an astronomical or geodetic instrument, or the line which passes through the optical center of the object glass and the intersection of the cross wires at its focus. 

COLLIMATOR:  A telescope arranged and used to determine errors of collimation, both vertical and horizontal. Nichol.  2. (Optics)  A tube having a convex lens at one end and at the other a small opening or slit which is at the principal focus of the lens, used for producing a beam of parallel rays; also, a lens so used. 

COLLIN:  A very pure form of gelatin. 

COLLINE:  A small hill or mount. [Obs.] And watered park, full of fine collines and ponds. Evelyn. 

COLLINEATION:  The act of aiming at, or directing in a line with, a fixed object. [R.] Johnson. 

COLLING:  An embrace; dalliance. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

COLLINGLY:  With embraces. [Obs.] Gascoigne. 

COLLINGUAL:  Having, or pertaining to, the same language. 

COLLIQUABLE:  Liable to melt, grow soft, or become fluid. [Obs.] Harvey. 

COLLIQUAMENT:  The first rudiments of an embryo in generation. Dr. H. More. 

COLLIQUATE:  To change from solid to fluid; to make or become liquid; to melt. [Obs.] The ore of it is colliquated by the violence of the fire. Boyle. [Ice] will colliquate in water or warm oil. Sir T. Browne. 

COLLIQUATION:  A processive wasting or melting away of the solid parts of the animal system with copious excretions of liquids by one or more passages. [Obs.] 

COLLIQUATIVE:  Causing rapid waste or exhaustion; melting; as, collequative sweats. 

COLLIQUEFACTION:  A melting together; the reduction of different bodies into one mass by fusion. The incorporation of metals by simple colliquefaction. Bacon. 

COLLISH:  A tool to polish the edge of a sole. Knight. 

COLLISIVE:  Colliding; clashing. [Obs.] 

COLLITIGANT:  Disputing or wrangling. [Obs.] -- n.  One who litigates or wrangles. [Obs.] 

COLLOCATE:  Set; placed. [Obs.] Bacon. 

COLLOCATE:  To set or place; to set; to station. To marshal and collocate in order his battalions. E. Hall. 

COLLOCATION:  The act of placing; the state of being placed with something else; disposition in place; arrangement. The choice and collocation of words. Sir W. Jones. 

COLLOCUTION:  A speaking or conversing together; conference; mutual discourse. Bailey. 

COLLOCUTOR:  One of the speakers in a dialogue. Derham. 

COLLODION:  A solution of pyroxylin (soluble gun cotton) in ether containing a varying proportion of alcohol. It is strongly adhesive, and is used by surgeons as a containing for wounds; but its chief application is as a vehicle for the sensitive film in photography. Collodion process (Photog.), a process in which a film of sensitized collodion is used in preparing the plate for taking a picture.  -- Styptic collodion, collodion containing an astringent, as tannin. 

COLLODIONIZE:  To prepare or treat with collodion. R. Hunt. 

COLLODIOTYPE:  A picture obtained by the collodion process; a melanotype or ambrotype. 

COLLODIUM:  See Collodion. 

COLLOGUE:  To talk or confer secretly and confidentially; to converse, especially with evil intentions; to plot mischief. [Archaic or Colloq.] Pray go in; and, sister, salve the matter, Collogue with her again, and all shall be well. Greene. He had been colloguing with my wife. Thackeray. 

COLLOID:  Resembling glue or jelly; characterized by a jellylike appearance; gelatinous; as, colloid tumors. 

COLLOID:  A substance (as albumin, gum, gelatin, etc.) which is of a gelatinous rather than a crystalline nature, and which diffuses itself through animal membranes or vegetable parchment more slowly than crystalloids do; -- opposed to crystalloid.  2. (Med.)  A gelatinous substance found in colloid degeneration and colloid cancer. Styptic colloid (Med.), a preparation of astringent and antiseptic substances with some colloid material, as collodion, for ready use. 

COLLOIDAL:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, colloids. 

COLLOIDALITY:  The state or quality of being colloidal. 

COLLOPED:  Having ridges or bunches of flesh, like collops. With that red, gaunt, and colloped neck astrain. R. Browning. 

COLLOQUIAL:  Pertaining to, or used in, conversation, esp. common and familiar conversation; conversational; hence, unstudied; informal; as, colloquial intercourse; colloquial phrases; a colloquial style.  -- Col*lo"qui*al*ly, adv. His [Johnson's] colloquial talents were, indeed, of the highest order. Macaulay. 

COLLOQUIALISM:  A colloquial expression, not employed in formal discourse or writing. 

COLLOQUIALIZE:  To make colloquial and familiar; as, to colloquialize one's style of writing. 

COLLOQUIST:  A speaker in a colloquy or dialogue. Malone. 

COLLOTYPE:  A photomechanical print made directly from a hardened film of gelatin or other colloid; also, the process of making such prints. According to one method, the film is sensitized with potassium dichromate and exposed to light under a reversed negative. After the dichromate has been washed out, the film is soaked in glycerin and water. As this treatment causes swelling in those parts of the film which have been acted on by light, a plate results from which impressions can be taken with prepared ink. The albertype, phototype, and heliotype are collotypes. 

COLLOW:  Soot; smut. See 1st Colly. [Obs.] 

COLLUCTANCY:  A struggling to resist; a striving against; resistance; opposition of nature. [Obs.] 

COLLUCTATION:  A struggling; a contention. [Obs.] Colluctation with old hags and hobgoblins. Dr. H. More. 

COLLUDE:  To have secretly a joint part or share in an action; to play into each other's hands; to conspire; to act in concert. If they let things take their course, they will be represented as colluding with sedition. Burke. 

COLLUDER:  One who conspires in a fraud. 

COLLUM:  A neck or cervix. Dunglison.  2. (Bot.)  Same as Collar. Gray. 

COLLUSION:  An agreement between two or more persons to defraud a person of his rights, by the forms of law, or to obtain an object forbidden by law. Bouvier. Abbott.  Syn.  -- Collusion, Connivance. A person who is guilty of connivance intentionally overlooks, and thus sanctions what he was bound to prevent. A person who is guilty of collusion unites with others (playing into their hands) for fraudulent purposes. 

COLLUSORY:  Collusive. 

COLLUTORY:  A medicated wash for the mouth. 

COLLY:  The black grime or soot of coal. [Obs.] Burton. 

COLLY:  To render black or dark, as of with coal smut; to begrime. [Archaic.] Thou hast not collied thy face enough. B. Jonson. Brief as the lighting in the collied night. Shak. 

COLLY:  A kind of dog. See Collie. 

COLLYBIST:  A money changer. [Obs.] In the face of these guilty collybists. Bp. Hall. 

COLLYRIUM:  An application to the eye, usually an eyewater. 

COLOBOMA:  A defect or malformation; esp., a fissure of the iris supposed to be a persistent embryonic cleft. 

COLOCOLO:  A South American wild cat (Felis colocolo), of the size of the ocelot. 

COLOCYNTH:  The light spongy pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber (Citrullus, or Cucumis, colocynthis), an Asiatic plant allied to the watermelon; coloquintida. It comes in white balls, is intensely bitter, and a powerful cathartic. Called also bitter apple, bitter cucumber, bitter gourd. 

COLOCYNTHIN:  The active medicinal principle of colocynth; a bitter, yellow, crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside. 

COLOGNE:  A perfumed liquid, composed of alcohol and certain aromatic oils, used in the toilet; -- called also cologne water and eau de cologne.  COLOGNE EARTH Co*logne" earth`. Etym: [From Cologne the city.] (Min.)  An earth of a deep brown color, containing more vegetable than mineral matter; an earthy variety of lignite, or brown coal. 

COLOMBIER:  A large size of paper for drawings. See under Paper. 

COLOMBIN:  See Calumbin. 

COLOMBO:  See Calumba. 

COLON:  That part of the large intestines which extends from the cæcum to the rectum.  Note: [See Illust of Digestion.]  2. (Gram.)  A point or character, formed thus [:], used to separate parts of a sentence that are complete in themselves and nearly independent, often taking the place of a conjunction. 

COLONEL:  The chief officer of a regiment; an officer ranking next above a lieutenant colonel and next below a brigadier general. 

COLONELCY:  The office, rank, or commission of a colonel. 

COLONELSHIP:  Colonelcy. Swift. 

COLONER:  A colonist. [Obs.] Holland 

COLONIAL:  Of or pertaining to a colony; as, colonial rights, traffic, wars. 

COLONICAL:  Of or pertaining to husbandmen. [Obs.] 

COLONIST:  A member or inhabitant of a colony. 

COLONITIS:  See Colitis. 

COLONIZATION:  Tha act of colonizing, or the state of being colonized; the formation of a colony or colonies. The wide continent of America invited colonization. Bancroft. 

COLONIZATIONIST:  A friend to colonization, esp. (U. S. Hist) to the colonization of Africa by emigrants from the colored population of the United States. 

COLONIZE:  To plant or establish a colony or colonies in; to people with colonists; to migrate to and settle in. Bacon. They that would thus colonize the stars with inhabitants. Howell. 

COLONIZE:  To remove to, and settle in, a distant country; to make a colony. C. Buchanan. 

COLONIZER:  One who promotes or establishes a colony; a colonist. Bancroft. 

COLONNADE:  A series or range of columns placed at regular intervals with all the adjuncts, as entablature, stylobate, roof, etc.  Note: When in front of a building, it is called a portico; when surrounding a building or an open court or square, a peristyle. 

COLONY:  A number of animals or plants living or growing together, beyond their usual range. 

COLOPHANY:  See Colophony. 

COLOPHENE:  A colorless, oily liquid, formerly obtained by distillation of colophony. It is regarded as a polymeric form of terebenthene. Called also diterebene. 

COLOPHON:  An inscription, monogram, or cipher, containing the place and date of publication, printer's name, etc., formerly placed on the last page of a book. The colophon, or final description, fell into disuse, and . . . the title page had become the principal direct means of identifying the book. De Morgan. The book was uninjured from title page to colophon. Sir W. Scott. 

COLOPHONITE:  A coarsely granular variety of garnet. 

COLOPHONY:  Rosin. 

COLOQUINTIDA:  See Colocynth. Shak. 

COLOR:  An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave to the plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially, thus removing the cause from the jury to the court. Blackstone.  Note: Color is express when it is asverred in the pleading, and implied when it is implied in the pleading. Body color. See under Body.  -- Color blindness, total or partial inability to distinguish or recognize colors. See Daltonism.  -- Complementary color, one of two colors so related to each other that when blended together they produce white light; -- so called because each color makes up to the other what it lacks to make it white. Artificial or pigment colors, when mixed, produce effects differing from those of the primary colors, in consequence of partial absorption.  -- Of color (as persons, races, etc.), not of the white race; -- commonly meaning, esp. in the United States, of negro blood, pure or mixed.  -- Primary colors, those developed from the solar beam by the prism, viz., red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet, which are reduced by some authors to three, -- red, green, and violet-blue. These three are sometimes called fundamental colors.  -- Subjective or Accidental color, a false or spurious color seen in some instances, owing to the persistence of the luminous impression upon the retina, and a gradual change of its character, as where a wheel perfectly white, and with a circumference regulary subdiveded, is made to revolve rapidly over a dark object, the teeth, of the wheel appear to the eye of different shades of color varying with the rapidity of rotation. See Accidental colors, under Accidental. 

COLOR:  To acquire color; to turn red, especially in the face; to blush. 

COLORABLE:  Specious; plausible; having an appearance of right or justice. "Colorable pretense for infidility." Bp. Stillingfleet.  -- Col"or*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Col"or*a*bly, adv. Colorable and subtle crimes, that seldom are taken within the walk of human justice. Hooker.  COLORADO BEETLE Col`o*ra"do bee"tle. (Zoöl.)  A yellowish beetle (Doryphora decemlineata), with ten longitudinal, black, dorsal stripes. It has migrated eastwards from its original habitat in Colorado, and is very destructive to the potato plant; -- called also potato beetle and potato bug. See Potato beetle.  COLORADO GROUP Col`o*ra"do group. (Geol.)  A subdivision of the cretaceous formation of western North America, especially developed in Colorado and the upper Missouri region. 

COLORADOITE:  Mercury telluride, an iron-black metallic mineral, found in Colorado. 

COLORATE:  Colored. [Obs.] Ray. 

COLORATION:  The act or art of coloring; the state of being colored. Bacon. The females . . . resemble each other in their general type of coloration. Darwin. 

COLORATURE:  Vocal music colored, as it were, by florid ornaments, runs, or rapid passages.  COLOR-BLIND Col"or-blind, a.  Affected with color blindness. See Color blindness, under Color, n. 

COLORED:  Of some other color than white; specifically applied to negroes or persons having negro blood; as, a colored man; the colored people.  5. (Bot.)  Of some other color than green. Colored, meaning, as applied to foliage, of some other color than green. Gray.  Note: In botany, green is not regarded as a color, but white is. Wood. 

COLORIFIC:  Capable of communicating color or tint to other bodies. 

COLORIMETER:  An instrument for measuring the depth of the color of anything, especially of a liquid, by comparison with a standard liquid. 

COLORIMETRY:  The quantitative determination of the depth of color of a substance.  2.  A method of quantitative chemical analysis based upon the comparison of the depth of color of a solution with that of a standard liquid. 

COLORIST:  One who colors; an artist who excels in the use of colors; one to whom coloring is of prime importance. Titian, Paul Veronese, Van Dyck, and the rest of the good colorists. Dryden. 

COLORMAN:  A vender of paints, etc. Simmonds.  COLOR SERGEANT Col"or ser"geant.  See under Sergeant. 

COLOSSAL:  Of a size larger than heroic. See Heroic. 

COLOSSEAN:  Colossal. [R.] 

COLOSSEUM:  The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome. [Also written Coliseum.] 

COLOTOMY:  An operation for opening the colon 

COLOUR:  See Color. 

COLP:  See Collop. 

COLPORTAGE:  The distribution of religious books, tracts, etc., by colporteurs. 

COLPORTER:  Same as Colporteur. 

COLPORTEUR:  A hawker; specifically, one who travels about selling and distributing religious tracts and books. 

COLSTAFF:  A staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons on their shoulders. 

COLT:  To frisk or frolic like a colt; to act licentiously or wantonly. [Obs.] They shook off their bridles and began to colt. Spenser. 

COLTER:  A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut the sward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard. [Written also coulter.] 

COLTISH:  Like a colt; wanton; frisky. He was all coltish, full of ragery. Chaucer. -- Colt"ish*ly, adv.  -- Colt"ish*ness, n.  COLT PISTOL Colt pistol. (Firearms)  A self-loading or semi-automatic pistol with removable magazine in the handle holding seven cartridges. The recoil extracts and ejects the empty cartridge case, and reloads ready for another shot. Called also Browning, and Colt-Browning, pistol.  COLT REVOLVER Colt revolver. (Firearms)  A revolver made according to a system using a patented revolving cylinder, holding six cartridges, patented by Samuel Colt, an American inventor, in 1835. With various modifications, it has for many years been the standard for the United States army. 

COLTSFOOT:  A perennial herb (Tussilago Farfara), whose leaves and rootstock are sometimes employed in medicine. Butterbur coltsfoot (Bot.), a European plant (Petasites vulgaris).  COLT'S TOOTH Colt's" tooth`.  See under Colt. 

COLUBER:  A genus of harmless serpents.  Note: Linnæus placed in this genus all serpents, whether venomous or not, whose scales beneath the tail are arranged in pairs; but by modern writers it is greatly restricted. 

COLUBRINE:  like or related to snakes of the genus Coluber.  2. Like a snake; cunning; crafty. Johnson. 

COLUGO:  A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), having along the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelike membrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like the flying squirrel; -- called also flying lemur. 

COLUMBA:  See Calumba. 

COLUMBAE:  An order of birds, including the pigeons. 

COLUMBARY:  A dovecote; a pigeon house. Sir T. Browne. 

COLUMBATE:  A salt of columbic acid; a niobate. See Columbium.  COLUMBATZ FLY Co*lum"batz fly`. Etym: [From Kolumbatz, a mountain in Germany.] (Zoöl.)  See Buffalo fly, under Buffalo. 

COLUMBELLA:  A genus of univale shells, abundant in tropical seas. Some species, as Columbella mercatoria, were formerly used as shell money. 

COLUMBIA:  America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given in honor of Columbus, the discoverer. Dr. T. Dwight. 

COLUMBIAD:  A form of seacoast cannon; a long, chambered gun designed for throwing shot or shells with heavy charges of powder, at high angles of elevation.  Note: Since the War of 1812 the Columbiad has been much modified form now used in seacoast defense is often called the Rodman gun. 

COLUMBIAN:  Of or pertaining to the United States, or to America. 

COLUMBIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, columbium or niobium; niobic. Columbic acid (Chem.), a weak acid derived from columbic or niobic oxide, Nb2O5; -- called also niobic acid. 

COLUMBIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the columbo root. Columbic acid (Chem.), an organic acid extracted from the columbo root as a bitter, yellow, amorphous substance. 

COLUMBIER:  See Colombier. 

COLUMBIFEROUS:  Producing or containing columbium. 

COLUMBIN:  A white, crystalline, bitter substance. See Calumbin. 

COLUMBINE:  Of or pertaining to a dove; dovelike; dove-colored. "Columbine innocency." Bacon. 

COLUMBINE:  A plant of several species of the genus Aquilegia; as, A. vulgaris, or the common garden columbine; A. Canadensis, the wild red columbine of North America.  2. The mistress or sweetheart of Harlequin in pantomimes. Brewer. 

COLUMBITE:  A mineral of a black color, submetallic luster, and high specific specific gravity. It is a niobate (or columbate) of iron and manganese, containing tantalate of iron; -- first found in New England. 

COLUMBIUM:  A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a variety of the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably at Haddam. Atomic weight 94.2. Symbol Cb or Nb. Now more commonly called niobium. 

COLUMBO:  See Calumba.  COLUMBUS DAY Co*lum"bus Day.  The 12th day of October, on which day in 1492 Christopher Columbus discovered America, landing on one of the Bahama Islands (probably the one now commonly called Watling Island), and naming it "San Salvador"; -- called also Discovery Day. This day is made a legal holiday in many States of The United States. 

COLUMELLA:  A term applied to various columnlike parts; as, the columnella, or epipterygoid bone, in the skull of many lizards; the columella of the ear, the bony or cartilaginous rod connecting the tympanic membrane with the internal ear.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) The upright pillar in the axis of most univalve shells. (b) The central pillar or axis of the calicles of certain corals. 

COLUMELLIFORM:  Shaped like a little column, or columella. 

COLUMN:  A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually composed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order.  2. Anything resembling, in form or position, a column an architecture; an upright body or mass; a shaft or obelisk; as, a column of air, of water, of mercury, etc. ; the Column Vendôme; the spinal column.  3. (Mil.) (a) A body of troops formed in ranks, one behind the other; -- contradistinguished from line. Compare Ploy, and Deploy. (b) A small army.  4. (Naut.)  A number of ships so arranged as to follow one another in single or double file or in squadrons; -- in distinction from "line", where they are side by side.  5. (Print.)  A perpendicular set of lines, not extending across the page, and separated from other matter by a rule or blank space; as, a column in a newspaper.  6. (Arith.)  A perpendicular line of figures.  7. (Bot.)  The body formed by the union of the stamens in the Mallow family, or of the stamens and pistil in the orchids. Attached column. See under Attach, v. t.  -- Clustered column. See under Cluster, v. t.  -- Column rule, a thin strip of brass separating columns of type in the form, and making a line between them in printing. 

COLUMNAR:  Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; like the shaft of a column. Columnar epithelium (Anat.), epithelium in which the cells are priismatic in form, and set upright on the surface they cover.  -- Columnar structure (Geol.), a structure consisting of more or less regular columns, usually six-sided, but sometimes with eight or more sides. The columns are often fractured transversely, with a cup joint, showing a concave surface above. This structure is characteristic of certain igneous rocks, as basalt, and is due to contraction in cooling. 

COLUMNARITY:  The state or quality of being columnar. 

COLUMNATED:  Having columns; as, columnated temples. 

COLUMNED:  Having columns. Troas and Ilion's columned citadel. Tennyson. 

COLUMNIATION:  The employment or arrangement of columns in a structure. Gwilt. 

COLURE:  One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in the poles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctial points, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the other intersects the equator at the distance of 90º from the former, and is called the solstitial colure. Thrice the equinoctial line He circled; four times crossed the car of night From pole to pole, traversing each colure. Milton. 

COLY:  Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabit Africa. 

COLZA:  A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for its seeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricating purposes; summer rape.  COM- Com-.  A prefix from the Latin preposition cum, signifying with, together, in conjunction, very, etc. It is used in the form com- before b, m, p, and sometimes f, and by assimilation becomes col- before l, cor- before r, and con- before any consonant except b, h, l, m, p, r, and w. Before a vowel com- becomes co-; also before h, w, and sometimes before other consonants. 

COMA:  A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or impossible to rouse a person. See Carus. 

COMA:  The envelope of a comet; a nebulous covering, which surrounds the nucleus or body of a comet.  2. (Bot.)  A tuft or bunch, -- as the assemblage of branches forming the head of a tree; or a cluster of brachts when empty and terminating the inflorescence of a plant; or a tuft of long hairs on certain seeds. Coma Berenices ( Etym: [L.] (Astron.), a small constellation north of Virgo; -- called also Berenice's Hair. 

COMANCHES:  A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family of Indians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the United States; -- called also Paducahs. They are noted for plundering and cruelty. 

COMART:  A covenant. [Obs.] Shak. 

COMATE:  Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy.  CO-MATE Co"-mate`, n. Etym: [Pref. co- + mate.]  A companion. Shak. 

COMATOSE:  Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic; as, comatose sleep; comatose fever. 

COMATOUS:  Comatose. 

COMATULA:  A crinoid of the genus Antedon and related genera. When young they are fixed by a stem. When adult they become detached and cling to seaweeds, etc., by their dorsal cirri; -- called also feather stars. 

COMATULID:  Any crinoid of the genus Antedon or allied genera. 

COMB:  To disentangle, cleanse, or adjust, with a comb; to lay smooth and straight with, or as with, a comb; as, to comb hair or wool. See under Combing. Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright. Shak. 

COMB:  To roll over, as the top or crest of a wave; to break with a white foam, as waves.  COMB; COMBE Comb, Combe ( or ), n. Etym: [AS. comb, prob. of Celtic origin; cf. W. cwm a dale, valley.]  That unwatered portion of a valley which forms its continuation beyond and above the most elevated spring that issues into it. [Written also coombe.] Buckland. A gradual rise the shelving combe Displayed. Southey. 

COMB:  A dry measure. See Coomb. 

COMBAT:  To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight. To combat with a blind man I disdain. Milton. After the fall of the republic, the Romans combated only for the choice of masters. Gibbon. 

COMBAT:  To fight with; to oppose by force, argument, etc.; to contend against; to resist. When he the ambitious Norway combated. Shak. And combated in silence all these reasons. Milton. Minds combat minds, repelling and repelled. Goldsmith.  Syn.  -- To fight against; resist; oppose; withstand; oppugn; antagonize; repel; resent. 

COMBAT:  An engagement of no great magnitude; or one in which the parties engaged are not armies. Single combat, one in which a single combatant meets a single opponent, as in the case of David and Goliath; also a duel.  Syn.  -- A battle; engagement; conflict; contest; contention; struggle; fight, strife. See Battle, Contest. 

COMBATABLE:  Such as can be, or is liable to be, combated; as, combatable foes, evils, or arguments. 

COMBATANT:  Contending; disposed to contend. B. Jonson. 

COMBATANT:  One who engages in combat. "The mighty combatants." Milton. A controversy which long survived the original combatants. Macaulay 

COMBATER:  One who combats. Sherwood. 

COMBATIVE:  ( 

COMBATIVENESS:  A cranial development supposed to indicate a combative disposition. 

COMBATTANT:  In the position of fighting; -- said of two lions set face to face, each rampant. 

COMBBROACH:  A tooth of a wool comb. [Written also combrouch.] 

COMBE:  See Comb. 

COMBER:  To cumber. [Obs.] Spenser. 

COMBER:  Encumbrance. [Obs.] 

COMBER:  The cabrilla. Also, a name applied to a species of wrasse. [Prov. Eng.] 

COMBINABLE:  Capable of combinding; consistent with. [R.] M. Arnold.  -- Com*bin"a*ble*ness, n. 

COMBINATE:  United; joined; betrothed. [R.] 

COMBINATION:  The act or process of uniting by chemical affinity, by which substances unite with each other in definite proportions by weight to form distinct compounds.  4. pl. (Math.)  The different arrangements of a number of objects, as letters, into groups.  Note: In combinations no regard is paid to the order in which the objects are arranged in each group, while in variations and permutations this order is respected. Brande & C. Combination car, a railroad car containing two or more compartments used for different purposes. [U. S.] -- Combination lock, a lock in which the mechanism is controlled by means of a movable dial (sometimes by several dials or rings) inscribed with letters or other characters. The bolt of the lock can not be operated until after the dial has been so turned as to combine the characters in a certain order or succession.  -- Combination room, in the University of Cambridge, Eng., a room into which the fellows withdraw after dinner, for wine, dessert, and conversation.  -- Combination by volume (Chem.), the act, process, or ratio by which gaseous elements and compounds unite in definite proportions by volume to form distinct compounds.  -- Combination by weight (Chem.), the act, process, or ratio, in which substances unite in proportions by weight, relatively fixed and exact, to form distinct compounds. See Law of definite proportions, under Definite.  Syn.  -- Cabal; alliance; association; league; union; confederacy; coalition; conspiracy. See Cabal. 

COMBINE:  In the game of casino, to play a card which will take two or more cards whose aggregate number of pips equals those of the card played. Combining weight (Chem.), that proportional weight, usually referred to hydrogen as a standard, and for each element fixed and exact, by which an element unites with another to form a distinct compound. The combining weights either are identical with, or are multiples or multiples of, the atomic weight. See Atomic weight, under Atomic, a. 

COMBINED:  United closely; confederated; chemically united. 

COMBINEDLY:  ; jointly. 

COMBINER:  One who, or that which, combines. 

COMBING:  See Coamings. Combing machine (Textile Manuf.), a machine for combing wool, flax, cotton, etc., and separating the longer and more valuable fiber from the shorter. See also Carding machine, under Carding. 

COMBLESS:  Without a comb or crest; as, a combless ceck. 

COMBOLOIO:  A Mohammedan rosary, consisting of ninety-nine beads. Byron.  COMB-SHAPED Comb"-shaped`, a. (Bot.)  Pectinate. 

COMBUST:  So near the sun as to be obscured or eclipsed by his light, as the moon or planets when not more than eight degrees and a half from the sun. [Obs.] Planets that are oft combust. Milton. 

COMBUSTIBILITY:  The quality of being combustible. 

COMBUSTIBLE:  A substance that may bee set on fire, or which is liable to take fire and burn. All such combustibles as are cheap enough for common use go under the name of fuel. Ure. 

COMBUSTIBLENESS:  Combustibility. 

COMBUSTION:  The combination of a combustible with a supporter of combustion, producing heat, and sometimes both light and heat. Combustion results is common cases from the mutual chemical action and reaction of the combustible and the oxygen of the atmosphere, whereby a new compound is formed. Ure. Supporter of combustion (Chem.), a gas as oxygen, the combination of which with a combustible, as coal, constitutes combustion.  3. Violent agitation; confusion; tumult. [Obs.] There [were] great combustions and divisions among the heads of the university. Mede. But say from whence this new combustion springs. Dryden.  COMBUSTION CHAMBER Com*bus"tion cham`ber. (Mech.)  (a) A space over, or in front of , a boiler furnace where the gases from the fire become more thoroughly mixed and burnt. (b) The clearance space in the cylinder of an internal combustion engine where the charge is compressed and ignited. 

COMBUSTIOUS:  Inflammable. [Obs.] Shak. 

COME:  To carry through; to succeed in; as, you can't come any tricks here. [Slang] To come it, to succeed in a trick of any sort. [Slang] 

COME:  Coming. Chaucer.  COME-ALONG Come"-a*long`, n.  A gripping device, as for stretching wire, etc., consisting of two jaws so attached to a ring that they are closed by pulling on the ring.  CO-MEDDLE Co-med"dle, v. t.  To mix; to mingle, to temper. [Obs.] Shak. 

COMEDIENNE:  A women who plays in comedy. 

COMEDIETTA:  A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy. 

COMEDO:  A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., which on pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retained oily secretion, with a black head (dirt). 

COMEDOWN:  A downfall; an humillation. [Colloq.] 

COMEDY:  A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright and amusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the manners of society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play in which mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; -- opposed to tragedy. With all the vivacity if comedy. Macaulay. Are come to play a pleasant comedy. Shak. 

COMELILY:  In a suitable or becoming manner. [R.] Sherwood. 

COMELINESS:  The quality or state of being comely. Comeliness is a disposing fair Of things and actions in fit time and place. Sir J. Davies. Strength, comeliness of shape, or amplest merit. Milton. Comeliness signifies something less forcible than beauty, less elegant than grace, and less light than prettiness. Johnson. 

COMELY:  In a becoming manner. Ascham.  COME-OUTER Come-out"er, n.  One who comes out or withdraws from a religious or other organization; a radical reformer. [Colloq. U. S.] 

COMER:  One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and is present. All comers, all who come, or offer, to take part in a matter, especially in a contest or controversy. "To prove it against all comers." Bp. Stillingfleet. 

COMES:  The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue. 

COMESSATION:  A reveling; a rioting. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

COMESTIBLE:  Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent. Some herbs are most comestible. Sir T. Elyot. 

COMESTIBLE:  Something suitable to be eaten; -- commonly in the plural. Thackeray. 

COMET:  A member of the solar system which usually moves in an elongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion, and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. A comet commonly consists of three parts: the nucleus, the envelope, or coma, and the tail; but one or more of these parts is frequently wanting. See Illustration in Appendix. 

COMETARIUM:  An instrument, intended to represent the revolution of a comet round the sun. Hutton. 

COMETARY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a comet. Cheyne.  COMET-FINDER; COMET-SEEKER Com"et-find`er, or Com"et-seek`er, n. (Astron.)  A telescope of low power, having a large field of view, used for finding comets. 

COMETHER:  Matter; affair.  2.  Friendly communication or association.  To put the, or one's, comether on, to exercise persuasion upon; to get under one's influence; to beguile; to wheedle.  How does ut come about, sorr, that whin a man has put the comether on wan woman he's sure bound to put ut on another Kipling. 

COMETIC:  Relating to a comet. 

COMETOGRAPHER:  One who describes or writes about comets. 

COMETOGRAPHY:  A description of, or a treatise concerning, comets. 

COMETOLOGY:  The department of astronomy relating to comets. 

COMFIT:  A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preserved with sugar and dried; a confection. 

COMFIT:  To preserve dry with sugar. The fruit which does so quickly waste, . . . Thou comfitest in sweets to make it last. Cowley. 

COMFITURE:  See Comfit, n. 

COMFORT:  Unlawful support, countenance, or encouragement; as, to give aid and comfort to the enemy.  Syn.  -- Comfort, Consolation. Comfort has two meanings:  1. Strength and relief received under affliction;  2. Positive enjoyment, of a quiet, permanent nature, together with the sources thereof; as, the comfort of love; surrounded with comforts; but it is with the former only that the word consolation is brought into comparison. As thus compared, consolation points to some specific source of relief for the afflicted mind; as, the consolations of religion. Comfort supposes the relief to be afforded by imparting positive enjoyment, as well as a diminution of pain. "Consolation, or comfort, signifies some alleviation to that pain to which it is not in our power to afford the proper and adequate remedy; they imply rather an augmentation of the power of bearing, than a diminution of the burden." Johnson. 

COMFORTABLE:  A stuffed or quilted coverlet for a bed; a comforter; a comfort. [U. S.] 

COMFORTABLENESS:  State of being comfortable or comforting manner. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem. Is. xl. 2. 

COMFORTABLY:  In a comfortable or comforting manner.  Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem. Is. xl. 2. 

COMFORTER:  The Holy Spirit, -- reffering to his office of comforting believers. But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. John xiv. 26.  3. A knit woolen tippet, long and narrow. [U. S.] The American schoolboy takes off his comforter and unbuttons his jacket before going in for a snowball fight. Pop. Sci. Monthly.  4. A wadded bedquilt; a comfortable. [U. S.] Job's comforter, a boil. [Colloq.] 

COMFORTLESS:  Without comfort or comforts; in want or distress; cheerless. Comfortless through turanny or might. Spenser.  Syn.  -- Forlorn; desolate; cheerless; inconsolable; disconsolate; wretched; miserable.  -- Com"fort*less*ly, adv.  -- Com"fort*less*ness, n. When all is coldly, comfortlessly costly. Milton. 

COMFORTMENT:  Act or process of administering comfort. [Obs.] The gentle comfortment and entertainment of the said embassador. Hakluyt. 

COMFORTRESS:  A woman who comforts. To be your comfortress, and to preserve you. B. Jonson. 

COMFREY:  A rough, hairy, perennial plant of several species, of the genus Symphytum.  Note: A decoction of the mucilaginous root of the "common comfrey" (S. officinale) is used in cough mixtures, etc.; and the gigantic "prickly comfrey" (S. asperrimum) is somewhat cultivated as a forage plant. 

COMIC:  A comedian. [Obs.] Steele. 

COMICALITY:  The quality of being comical; something comical. 

COMICRY:  The power of exciting mirth; comicalness. [R.] H. Giles. 

COMITIA:  A public assembly of the Roman people for electing officers or passing laws.  Note: There were three kinds of comitia: comitia curiata, or assembly of the patricians, who voted in curiæ; comitia centuriata, or assembly of the whole Roman people, who voted by centuries; and comitia tributa, or assembly of the plebeians according to their division into tribes. 

COMITIAL:  Relating to the comitia, or popular assembles of the Romans for electing officers and passing laws. Middleton. 

COMITIVA:  A body of followers; -- applied to the lawless or brigand bands in Italy and Sicily. 

COMITY:  Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals; friendly equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comity of States. Comity of nations (International Law), the courtesy by which nations recognize within their own territory, or in their courts, the peculiar institutions of another nation or the rights and privileges acquired by its citizens in their own land. By some authorities private international law rests on this comity, but the better opinion is that it is part of the common law of the land, and hence is obligatory as law.  Syn.  -- Civility; good breeding; courtesy; good will. 

COMMA:  A small interval (the difference beyween a major and minor half step), seldom used except by tuners. Comma bacillus (Physiol.), a variety of bacillus shaped like a comma, found in the intestines of patients suffering from cholera. It is considered by some as having a special relation to the disease; -- called also cholera bacillus.  -- Comma butterfly (Zoöl.), an American butterfly (Grapta comma), having a white comma-shaped marking on the under side of the wings. 

COMMANDABLE:  Capable of being commanded. 

COMMANDANT:  A commander; the commanding officer of a place, or of a body of men; as, the commandant of a navy-yard. 

COMMANDATORY:  Mandatory; as, commandatory authority. [Obs.] 

COMMANDEER:  To compel to perform military service; to seize for military purposes; -- orig. used of the Boers.  2.  To take arbitrary or forcible possession of. [Colloq.] 

COMMANDER:  An officer who ranks next below a captain, -- ranking with a lieutenant colonel in the army.  3. The chief officer of a commandery.  4. A heavy beetle or wooden mallet, used in paving, in sail lofts, etc. Commander in chief, the military title of the officer who has supreme command of the land or naval forces or the united forces of a nation or state; a generalissimo. The President is commander in chief of the army and navy of the United States.  Syn.  -- See Chief. 

COMMANDERSHIP:  The office of a commander. 

COMMANDINGLY:  In a commanding manner. 

COMMANDMENT:  One of the ten laws or precepts given by God to the Israelites at Mount Sinai.  3. The act of commanding; exercise of authority. And therefore put I on the countenance Of stern commandment. Shak.  4. (Law)  The offense of commanding or inducing another to violate the law. The Commandments, The Ten Commandments, the Decalogue, or summary of God's commands, given to Moses at Mount Sinai. (Ex. xx.) 

COMMANDO:  In South Africa, a military body or command; also, sometimes, an expedition or raid; as, a commando of a hundred Boers.  The war bands, called commandos, have played a great part in the . . . military history of the country. James Bryce. 

COMMANDRESS:  A woman invested with authority to command. Hooker. 

COMMANDRY:  See Commandery. 

COMMARK:  The frontier of a country; confines. [Obs.] Shelton. 

COMMATERIAL:  Consisting of the same material. [Obs.] Bacon. 

COMMATIC:  Having short clauses or sentences; brief; concise. 

COMMATISM:  Conciseness in writing. Bp. Horsley. 

COMMEASURABLE:  Having the same measure; commensurate; proportional. She being now removed by death, a commeasurable grief took as full possession of him as joy had one. I. Walton. 

COMMEASURE:  To be commensurate with; to equal. Tennyson. 

COMMEMORABLE:  Worthy to be commemorated. 

COMMEMORATE:  To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; to celebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event, by some act of respect of affection, intended to preserve the remembrance of the person or event; as, to commemorate the sufferings and dying love of our Savior by the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; to commemorate the Declaration of Independence by the observance of the Fourth of July. We are called upon to commemorate a revolution. Atterbury.  Syn.  -- See Celebrate. 

COMMEMORATIVE:  Tending or intended to commemorate. "A sacrifice commemorative of Christ's offering up his body for us." Hammond. An inscription commemorative of his victory. Sir G. C. Lewis. 

COMMEMORATOR:  One who commemorates. 

COMMEMORATORY:  Serving to commemorate; commomerative. Bp. Hooper. 

COMMENCE:  To enter upon; to begin; to perform the first act of. Many a wooer doth commence his suit. Shak.  Note: It is the practice of good writers to use the verbal noun (instead of the infinitive with to) after commence; as, he commenced studying, not he commenced to study. 

COMMEND:  Compliments; greetings. [Obs.] Hearty commends and much endeared love to you. Howell. 

COMMENDABLE:  Worthy of being commended or praised; laudable; praiseworthy. Order and decent ceremonies in the church are not only comely but commendable. Bacon. -- Com*mend"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Com*mend"a*bly, adv. 

COMMENDAM:  A vacant living or benefice commended to a cleric (usually a bishop) who enjoyed the revenue until a pastor was provided. A living so held was said to be held in commendam. The practice was abolished by law in 1836. There was [formerly] some sense for commendams. Selden. Partnership in commendam. See under Partnership. 

COMMENDATARY:  One who holds a living in commendam. 

COMMENDATION:  A message of affection or respect; compliments; greeting. [Obs.] Hark you, Margaret; No princely commendations to my king Shak. 

COMMENDATOR:  One who holds a benefice in commendam; a commendatary. Chalmers. 

COMMENDATORY:  A commendation; eulogy. [R.] "Commendatories to our affection." Sharp. 

COMMENDER:  One who commends or praises. 

COMMENSAL:  An animal, not truly parasitic, which lives in with, or on, another, partaking usually of the same food. Both species may be benefited by the association. 

COMMENSAL:  Having the character of a commensal. 

COMMENSALISM:  The act of eating together; table fellowship. 

COMMENSALITY:  Fellowship at table; the act or practice of eating at the same table. [Obs.] "Promiscuous commensality." Sir T. Browne. 

COMMENSATION:  Commensality. [Obs.] Daniel . . . declined pagan commensation. Sir T. Browne. 

COMMENSURABILITY:  The quality of being commersurable. Sir T. Browne. 

COMMENSURABLE:  Having a common measure; capable of being exactly measured by the same number, quantity, or measure.  -- Com*men"su*ra*ble*ness, n. Commensurable numbers or quantities (Math.), those that can be exactly expressed by some common unit; thus a foot and yard are commensurable, since both can be expressed in terms of an inch, one being 12 inches, the other 36 inches.  -- Numbers, or Quantities, commensurable in power, those whose squares are commensurable. 

COMMENSURABLY:  In a commensurable manner; so as to be commensurable. 

COMMENSURATENESS:  The state or quality of being commensurate. Foster. 

COMMENSURATION:  The act of commensurating; the state of being commensurate. All fitness lies in a particular commensuration, or proportion of one thing to another. South. 

COMMENT:  To make remarks, observations, or criticism; especially, to write notes on the works of an author, with a view to illustrate his meaning, or to explain particular passages; to write annotations; -- often followed by on or upon. A physician to comment on your malady. Shak. Critics . . . proceed to comment on him. Dryden. I must translate and comment. Pope. 

COMMENT:  To comment on. [Archaic.] Fuller. 

COMMENTATE:  To write comments or notes upon; to make comments. [R.] Commentate upon it, and return it enriched. Lamb. 

COMMENTATOR:  One who writes a commentary or comments; an expositor; an annotator. The commentator's professed object is to explain, to enforce, to illustrate doctrines claimed as true. Whewell. 

COMMENTATORIAL:  Pertaining to the making of commentaries. Whewell. 

COMMENTATORSHIP:  The office or occupation of a commentator. 

COMMENTER:  One who makes or writes comments; a commentator; an annotator. 

COMMENTITIOUS:  Fictitious or imaginary; unreal; as, a commentitious system of religion. [Obs.] Warburton. 

COMMERCE:  A very fast, unarmored, lightly armed vessel designed to capture or destroy merchant vessels of an enemy. Not being intended to fight, they may be improvised from fast passenger steamers. 

COMMERCIAL:  Of or pertaining to commerce; carrying on or occupied with commerce or trade; mercantile; as, commercial advantages; commercial relations. "Princely commercial houses." Macaulay. Commercial college, a school for giving instruction in commercial knowledge and business.  -- Commercial law. See under Law.  -- Commercial note paper, a small size of writing paper, usually about 5 by 7½ or 8 inches.  -- Commercial paper, negotiable paper given in due course of business. It includes bills of exchange, promissory notes, bank cheks, etc.  -- Commercial traveler, an agent of a wholesale house who travels from town to town to solicit orders.  Syn.  -- See Mercantile. 

COMMERCIALISM:  The commercial spirit or method. C. Kingsley. 

COMMERCIALLY:  In a commercial manner. 

COMMIGRATE:  To migrate together. [R.] 

COMMIGRATION:  Migration together. [R.] Woodward. 

COMMINATORY:  Threatening or denouncing punishment; as, comminatory terms. B. Jonson. 

COMMINGLE:  To mingle together; to mix in one mass, or intimately; to blend. Bacon. 

COMMINGLER:  One that commingles; specif., a device for noiseless heating of water by steam, in a vessel filled with a porous mass, as of pebbles. 

COMMINUTE:  To reduce to minute particles, or to a fine powder; to pulverize; to triturate; to grind; as, to comminute chalk or bones; to comminute food with the teeth. Pennant. Comminuted fracture. See under Fracture. 

COMMINUTION:  Fracture (of a bone) into a number of pieces. Dunglison.  3. Gradual diminution by the removal of small particles at a time; a lessening; a wearing away. Natural and necessary comminution of our lives. Johnson. 

COMMISERABLE:  Pitiable. [Obs.] Bacon. 

COMMISERATE:  To feel sorrow, pain, or regret for; to pity. Then must we those, who groan, beneath the weight Of age, disease, or want, commiserate. Denham. We should commiserate our mutual ignorance. Locke.  Syn.  -- To pity; compassionate; lament; condole. 

COMMISERATION:  The act of commiserating; sorrow for the wants, afflictions, or distresses of another; pity; compassion. And pluck commiseration of his state From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint. Shak.  Syn.  -- See Sympathy. 

COMMISERATIVE:  Feeling or expressing commiseration. Todd. 

COMMISERATOR:  One who pities. 

COMMISSARIAL:  Of or pertaining to a commissary. 

COMMISSARY:  An officer on the bishop, who exercises ecclesiastical jurisdiction in parts of the diocese at a distance from the residence of the bishop. Ayliffe.  3. (Mil.) (a) An officer having charge of a special sevice; as, the commissary of musters. (b) An officer whose business is to provide food for a body of troops or a military post; -- officially called commissary of subsistence. [U. S.] Washington wrote to the President of Congress . . . urging the appointment of a commissary general, a quartermaster general, a commissary of musters, and a commissary of artillery. W. Irving Commissary general, an officer in charge of some special department of army service; as: (a) The officer in charge of the commissariat and transport department, or of the ordinace store department. [Eng.] (b) The commissary general of subsistence. [U. S.] -- Commissary general of subsistence (Mil. U. S.), the head of the subsistence department, who has charge of the purchase and issue of provisions for the army. 

COMMISSARYSHIP:  The office or employment of a commissary. Ayliffe. 

COMMISSIONAIRE:  Of pertaining to, or conferring, a commission; conferred by a commission or warrant. [R.] Delegate or commissionary authority. Bp. Hall. 

COMMISSIONATE:  To commission [Obs.] 

COMMISSIONSHIP:  The office of commissioner. Sir W. Scott. 

COMMISSIVE:  Relating to commission; of the nature of, or involving, commission. [R.] 

COMMISSURAL:  Of or pertaining to a commissure. 

COMMISSURE:  The line of junction or cohering face of two carpels, as in the parsnip, caraway, etc. 

COMMIT:  To sin; esp., to be incontinent. [Obs.] Commit not with man's sworn spouse. Shak. 

COMMITTABLE:  Capable of being committed. 

COMMITTAL:  The act of commiting, or the state of being committed; commitment. 

COMMITTEE:  One or more persons elected or appointed, to whom any matter or bussiness is referred, either by a legislative body, or by a court, or by any collective body of men acting together. Commitee of the whole [house], a committee, embracing all the members present, into which a legislative or deliberative body sometimes resolves itself, for the purpose of considering a particular measure under the operation of different rules from those governing the general legislative proceedings. The committee of the whole has its own chairman, and reports its action in the form of recommendations.  -- Standing committee. See under Standing. 

COMMITTEE:  One to whom the charge of the person or estate of another, as of a lunatic, is committed by suitable authority; a guardian. 

COMMITTEEMAN:  A member of a committee. 

COMMITTIBLE:  Capable of being committed; liable to be committed. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

COMMIX:  To mix or mingle together; to blend. The commixed impressions of all the colors do stir up and beget a sensation of white. Sir I. Newton. To commix With winds that sailors rail at. Shak. 

COMMIXION:  Commixture. Shak. 

COMMIXTION:  Commixture; mingling. [R.] An exact commixtion of the ingredients. Boyle. 

COMMODATE:  A gratuitous loan. 

COMMODIOUS:  Adapted to its use or purpose, or to wants and necessities; serviceable; spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable; as, a commodious house. "A commodious drab." Shak. "Commodious gold." Pope. The haven was not commodious to winter in. Acts. xxvii. 12.  Syn.  -- Convenient; suitable; fit; proper; advantageous; serviceable; useful; spacious; comfortable. 

COMMODIOUSLY:  In a commodious manner. To pass commodiously this life. Milton. 

COMMODIOUSNESS:  State of being commodious; suitableness for its purpose; convience; roominess. Of cities, the greatness and riches increase according to the commodiousness of their situation. Sir W. Temple. The commodiousness of the harbor. Johnson. 

COMMODORE:  An officer who ranks next above a captain; sometimes, by courtesy, the senior captain of a squadron. The rank of commodore corresponds with that of brigadier general in the army.  2. (Brititsh Navy)  A captain commanding a squadron, or a division of a fleet, or having the temporary rank of rear admiral.  3. A title given courtesy to the senior captain of a line of merchant vessels, and also to the chief officer of a yachting or rowing club.  4. A familiar for the flagchip, or for the principal vessel of a squadron or fleet. 

COMMON:  The right of taking a profit in the land of another, in common either with the owner or with other persons; -- so called from the community of interest which arises between the claimant of the right and the owner of the soil, or between the claimants and other commoners entitled to the same right. Common appendant, a right belonging to the owners or occupiers of arable land to put commonable beasts upon the waste land in the manor where they dwell.  -- Common appurtenant, a similar right applying to lands in other manors, or extending to other beasts, besides those which are generally commonable, as hogs.  -- Common because of vicinage or neighborhood, the right of the inhabitants of each of two townships, lying contiguous to each other, which have usually intercommoned with one another, to let their beasts stray into the other's fields.  -- Common in gross or at large, a common annexed to a man's person, being granted to him and his heirs by deed; or it may be claimed by prescriptive right, as by a parson of a church or other corporation sole. Blackstone.  -- Common of estovers, the right of taking wood from another's estate.  -- Common of pasture, the right of feeding beasts on the land of another. Burill.  -- Common of piscary, the right of fishing in waters belonging to another.  -- Common of turbary, the right of digging turf upon the ground of another. 

COMMONAGE:  The right of pasturing on a common; the right of using anything in common with others. The claim of comonage . . . in most of the forests. Burke. 

COMMONISH:  Somewhat common; commonplace; vulgar. 

COMMONITION:  Advice; warning; instruction. [Obs.] Bailey. 

COMMONITIVE:  Monitory. [Obs.] Only commemorative and commonitive. Bp. Hall. 

COMMONITORY:  Calling to mind; giving admonition. [Obs.] Foxe. 

COMMONPLACE:  Common; ordinary; trite; as, a commonplace person, or observation. 

COMMONPLACE:  To enter in a commonplace book, or to reduce to general heads. Felton. 

COMMONPLACE:  To utter commonplaces; to indulge in platitudes. [Obs.] Bacon. 

COMMONPLACENESS:  The quality of being commonplace; commonness. 

COMMONS:  See Common sense, under Sense. 

COMMONTY:  A common; a piece of land in which two or more persons have a common right. Bell. 

COMMONWEAL:  Commonwealth. Such a prince, So kind a father of the commonweal. Shak. 

COMMONWEALTH:  Specifically, the form of government established on the death of Charles I., in 1649, which existed under Oliver Cromwell and his son Richard, ending with the abdication of the latter in 1659.  Syn.  -- State; realm; republic. 

COMMORANCE:  See Commorancy. 

COMMORANCY:  A dwelling or ordinary residence in a place; habitation. Commorancy consists in usually lying there. Blackstone.  2. (Am. Law)  Residence temporarily, or for a short time. 

COMMORANT:  Ordinarily residing; inhabiting. All freeholders within the precinct . . . and all persons commorant therein. Blackstone.  2. (Am. Law)  Inhabiting or occupying temporarily. 

COMMORANT:  A resident. Bp. Hacket. 

COMMORATION:  The act of staying or residing in a place. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

COMMORIENT:  Dying together or at the same time. [R.] Sir G. Buck. 

COMMORSE:  Remorse. [Obs.] "With sad commorse." Daniel. 

COMMOTE:  To commove; to disturb; to stir up. [R.] Society being more or less commoted and made uncomfortable. Hawthorne. 

COMMUNAL:  Pertaining to a commune. 

COMMUNALISM:  A French theory of government which holds that commune should be a kind of independent state, and the national government a confederation of such states, having only limited powers. It is advocated by advanced French republicans; but it should not be confounded with communism. 

COMMUNALIST:  An advocate of communalism. 

COMMUNALISTIC:  Pertaining to communalism. 

COMMUNE:  Communion; sympathetic intercourse or conversation between friends. For days of happy commune dead. Tennyson. 

COMMUNICABILITY:  The quality of being communicable; capability of being imparted. 

COMMUNICANT:  Communicating. [R.] Coleridge. 

COMMUNICATION:  A trope, by which a speaker assumes that his hearer is a partner in his sentiments, and says we, instead of I or you. Beattie.  Syn.  -- Correspondence; conference; intercourse. 

COMMUNICATIVE:  Inclined to communicate; ready to impart to others. Determine, for the future, to be less communicative. Swift. 

COMMUNICATIVENESS:  The quality of being communicative. Norris. 

COMMUNICATOR:  One who communicates. Boyle. 

COMMUNICATORY:  Imparting knowledge or information. Canonical and communicatory letters. Barrow. 

COMMUNISM:  A scheme of equalizing the social conditions of life; specifically, a scheme which contemplates the abolition of inequalities in the possession of property, as by distributing all wealth equally to all, or by holding all wealth in common for the equal use and advantage of all.  Note: At different times, and in different countries, various schemes pertaining to socialism in government and the conditions of domestic life, as well as in the distribution of wealth, have been called communism. 

COMMUNISTIC:  Living or having their nests in common, as certain birds. 

COMMUTABILITY:  The quality of being commutable. 

COMMUTABLE:  Capable of being commuted or interchanged. The predicate and subject are not commutable. Whately. 

COMMUTABLENESS:  The quality of being commutable; interchangeableness. 

COMMUTATION:  The change of a penalty or punishment by the pardoning power of the State; as, the commutation of a sentence of death to banishment or imprisonment. Suits are allowable in the spiritual courts for money agreed to be given as a commutation for penance. Blackstone.  4. A substitution, as of a less thing for a greater, esp. a substitution of one form of payment for another, or one payment for many, or a specific sum of money for conditional payments or allowances; as, commutation of tithes; commutation of fares; commutation of copyright; commutation of rations. Angle of commutation (Astron.), the difference of the geocentric longitudes of the sun and a planet.  -- Commutation of tithes, the substitution of a regular payment, chargeable to the land, for the annual tithes in kind.  -- Commutation ticket, a ticket, as for transportation, which is the evidence of a contract for service at a reduced rate. See 2d Commute, 2.  COMMUTATION TICKET Com`mu*ta"tion tick"et.  A ticket for transportation at a reduced rate in consideration of some special circumstance, as increase of travel; specif., a ticket for a certain number of, or for daily, trips between neighboring places at a reduced rate, such as are commonly used by those doing business in a city and living in a suburb. Commutation tickets are excepted from the prohibition against special rates contained in the Interstate Commerce Act of Feb. 4, 1887 (24 Stat. 379), and in 145 U. S. 263 it was held that party tickets were also excepted as being "obviously within the commuting principle." 

COMMUTATIVE:  Relative to exchange; interchangeable; reciprocal.  -- Com*mut"a*tive"ly, adv. Rich traders, from their success, are presumed . . . to have cultivated an habitual regard to commutative justice. Burke. 

COMMUTATOR:  A piece of apparatus used for reversing the direction of an electrical current; an attachment to certain electrical machines, by means of which alternating currents are made to be continuous or to have the same direction. 

COMMUTE:  To exchange; to put or substitute something else in place of, as a smaller penalty, obligation, or payment, for a greater, or a single thing for an aggregate; hence; to lessen; to diminish; as, to commute a sentence of death to one of imprisonment for life; to commute tithes; to commute charges for fares. The sounds water and fire, being once annexed to those two elements, it was certainly more natural to call beings participating of the first "watery", and the last "fiery", than to commute the terms, and call them by the reverse. J. Harris The utmost that could be obtained was that her sentence should be commuted from burning to beheading. Macaulay. 

COMMUTER:  One who commutes; especially, one who commutes in traveling. 

COMMUTUAL:  Mutual; reciprocal; united. [R.] There, with commutual zeal, we both had strove. Pope. 

COMOSE:  Bearing a tuft of soft hairs or down, as the seeds of milkweed. Gray. 

COMPACT:  An agreement between parties; a covenant or contract. The law of nations depends on mutual compacts, treaties, leagues, etc. Blackstone. Wedlock is described as the indissoluble compact. Macaulay. The federal constitution has been styled a compact between the States by which it was ratified. Wharton.  Syn.  -- See Covenant. 

COMPACTED:  Compact; pressed close; concentrated; firmly united. 

COMPACTEDLY:  In a compact manner. 

COMPACTEDNESS:  A state of being compact. 

COMPACTER:  One who makes a compact. 

COMPACTIBLE:  That may be compacted. 

COMPACTION:  The act of making compact, or the state of being compact. [Obs.] Bacon. 

COMPACTLY:  In a compact manner; with close union of parts; densely; tersely. 

COMPACTNESS:  The state or quality of being compact; close union of parts; density. 

COMPACTURE:  Close union or connection of parts; manner of joining; construction. [Obs.] "With comely compass and compacture strong." Spenser. 

COMPAGES:  A system or structure of many parts united. A regular compages of pipes and vessels. Ray. 

COMPAGINATE:  To unite or hold together; as, the side pieces compaginate the frame. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

COMPAGINATION:  Union of parts; structure. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

COMPANABLE:  Companionable; sociable. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COMPANATOR:  Same as Impanator. 

COMPANIABLE:  Companionable; sociable. [Obs.] Bacon. 

COMPANIONABLE:  Fitted to be a companion; fit for good fellowship; agreeable; sociable. "Each companionable guest." Mallett. "Companionable wit." Clarendon.  -- Com*pan"ion*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Com*pan"ion*a*bly, adv. 

COMPANIONLESS:  Without a companion. 

COMPANIONSHIP:  Fellowship; association; the act or fact of keeping company with any one. Shak. He never seemed to avail himself of my sympathy other than by mere companionship. W. Irwing 

COMPANY:  A subdivision of a regiment of troops under the command of a captain, numbering in the United States (full strength) 100 men.  9. (Naut.)  The crew of a ship, including the officers; as, a whole ship's company.  10. The body of actors employed in a theater or in the production of a play. To keep company with. See under Keep, v. t.  Syn.  -- Assemblage; assembly; society; group; assembly; society; group; circle; crowd; troop; crew; gang; corporation; association; fraternity; guild; partnership; copartnery; union; club; party; gathering. 

COMPANY:  To accompany or go with; to be companion to. [Obs.] 

COMPARABLE:  Capable of being compared; worthy of comparison. There is no blessing of life comparable to the enjoyment of a discreet and virtuous friend. Addison. -- Com"pa*ra*ble*ness, n.  -- Com"pa*ra*bly, adv. 

COMPARATE:  One of two things compared together. 

COMPARATION:  A making ready; provision. [Obs.] 

COMPARATIVE:  Expressing a degree greater or less than the positive degree of the quality denoted by an adjective or adverb. The comparative degree is formed from the positive by the use of -er, more, or less; as, brighter, more bright, or less bright. Comparative sciences, those which are based on a comprehensive comparison of the range of objects or facts in any branch or department, and which aim to study out and treat of the fundamental laws or systems of relation pervading them; as, comparative anatomy, comparative physiology, comparative philology. 

COMPARATIVE:  The comparative degree of adjectives and adverbs; also, the form by which the comparative degree is expressed; as, stronger, wiser, weaker, wore stormy, less windy, are all comparatives. In comparatives is expressed a relation of two; as in superlatives there is a relation of many.  2. An equal; a rival; a compeer. [Obs.] Gerard ever was His full comparative. Beau. & Fl.  3. One who makes comparisons; one who affects wit. [Obs.] "Every beardless vain comparative." Shak. 

COMPARATIVELY:  According to estimate made by comparison; relatively; not positively or absolutely. With but comparatively few exceptions. Prescott. 

COMPARATOR:  An instrument or machine for comparing anything to be measured with a standard measure; -- applied especially to a machine for comparing standards of length. 

COMPARE:  To inflect according to the degrees of comparison; to state positive, comparative, and superlative forms of; as, most adjectives of one syllable are compared by affixing "-er" and "-est" to the positive form; as, black, blacker, blackest; those of more than one syllable are usually compared by prefixing "more" and "most", or "less" and "least", to the positive; as, beautiful, more beautiful, most beautiful.  Syn.  -- To Compare, Compare with, Compare to. Things are compared with each other in order to learn their relative value or excellence. Thus we compare Cicero with Demosthenes, for the sake of deciding which was the greater orator. One thing is compared to another because of a real or fanciful likeness or similarity which exists between them. Thus it has been common to compare the eloquence of Demosthenes to a thunderbolt, on account of its force, and the eloquence of Cicero to a conflagration, on account of its splendor. Burke compares the parks of London to the lungs of the human body. 

COMPARE:  To get; to procure; to obtain; to acquire [Obs.] To fill his bags, and richesse to compare. Spenser. 

COMPARER:  One who compares. 

COMPARISON:  The modification, by inflection or otherwise, which the adjective and adverb undergo to denote degrees of quality or quantity; as, little, less, least, are examples of comparison.  5. (Rhet.)  A figure by which one person or thing is compared to another, or the two are considered with regard to some property or quality, which is common to them both; e.g., the lake sparkled like a jewel.  6. (Phren.)  The faculty of the reflective group which is supposed to perceive resemblances and contrasts. Beyond comparison, so far superior as to have no likeness, or so as to make comparison needless.  -- In comparison of, In comparison with, as compared with; in proportion to. [Archaic] "So miserably unpeopled in comparison of what it once was." Addison.  -- Comparison of hands (Law), a mode of proving or disproving the genuineness of a signature or writing by comparing it with another proved or admitted to be genuine, in order to ascertain whether both were written by the same person. Bouvier. Burrill. 

COMPARISON:  To compare. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

COMPART:  To divide; to mark out into parts or subdivisions. [R.] The crystal surface is comparted all In niches verged with rubies. Glover. 

COMPARTITION:  The act of dividing into parts or compartments; division; also, a division or compartment. [Obs.] Their temples . . . needed no compartitions. Sir H. Wotton. 

COMPARTMENT:  One of the sections into which the hold of a ship is divided by water-tight bulkheads. 

COMPARTNER:  See Copartner. [Obs.] 

COMPASS:  The range of notes, or tones, within the capacity of a voice or instument. You would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass. Shak.  7. An instrument for determining directions upon the carth's surface by means of a magnetized bar or needle turning freely upon a pivot and pinting in a northerly and southerly direction. He that firat discovered the use of the compass did more for the supplying and increase of useful commodities than those who built workhouses. Locke.  8. A pair of compasses. [R.] To fix one foot of their compass wherever they please. Swift.  9. A circle; a continent. [Obs.] The tryne compas [the threefold world containing earth, sea, and heaven. Skeat.] Chaucer. Azimuth compass. See under Azimuth.  -- Beam compass. See under Beam.  -- Compass card, the eircular card attached to the needles of a mariner's compass, on which are marked the thirty-two points or rhumbs.  -- Compass dial, a small pocket compass fitted with a sundial to tell the hour of the day.  -- Compass plane (Carp.), a plane, convex in the direction of its length on the under side, for smoothing the concave faces of curved woodwork.  -- Compass plant, Compass flower (Bot.), a plant of the American prairies (Silphium laciniatum), not unlike a small sunflower; rosinweed. Its lower and root leaves are vertical, and on the prairies are disposed to present their edges north and south. Its leaves are turned to the north as true as the magnet: This is the compass flower. Longefellow. -- Compass saw, a saw with a narrow blade, which will cut in a curve; -- called also fret saw and keyhole saw.  -- Compass timber (Shipbuilding), curved or crooked timber.  -- Compass window (Arch.), a circular bay window or oriel window. It has two or more magnetic needles permanently attached to a card, which moves freely upon a pivot, and is read with reference to a mark on the box representing the ship's head. The card is divided into thirty-two points, called also rhumbs, and the glass-covered box or bowl containing it is suspended in gimbals within the binnacle, in order to preserve its horizontal position.  -- Surveyor's compass, an instrument used in surveying for measuring horizontal angles. See Circumferentor.  -- Variation compass, a compass of delicate construction, used in observations on the variations of the needle.  -- To fetch a compass, to make a circuit. 

COMPASS:  To purpose; to intend; to imagine; to plot. Compassing and imagining the death of the king are synonymous terms; compassing signifying the purpose or design of the mind or will, and not, as in common speech, the carrying such design to effect. Blackstone. 

COMPASSABLE:  Capable of being compassed or accomplished. Burke. 

COMPASSED:  Rounded; arched. [Obs.] She came . . . into the compassed window. Shak. 

COMPASSES:  An instrument for describing circles, measuring figures, etc., consisting of two, or (rarely) more, pointed branches, or legs, usually joined at the top by a rivet on which they move.  Note: The compasses for drawing circles have adjustable pen points, pencil points, etc.; those used for measuring without adjustable points are generally called dividers. See Dividers. Bow compasses. See Bow-compass.  -- Caliber compasses, Caliper compasses. See Calipers.  -- Proportional, Triangular, etc., compasses. See under Proportional, etc. 

COMPASSING:  Curved; bent; as, compassing timbers. 

COMPASSION:  Literally, suffering with another; a sensation of sorrow excited by the distress or misfortunes of another; pity; commiseration. Womanly igenuity set to work by womanly compassion. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Pity; sympathy; commiseration; fellow-feeling; mercy; condolence. See Pity. 

COMPASSION:  To pity. [Obs.] Shak. 

COMPASSIONABLE:  Deserving compassion or pity; pitiable. [R.] Barrow. 

COMPASSIONATE:  To have compassion for; to pity; to commiserate; to sympathize with. Compassionates my pains, and pities me. Addison. 

COMPASSIONATELY:  In a compassionate manner; mercifully. Clarendon. 

COMPASSIONATENESS:  The quality or state of being compassionate. 

COMPASSLESS:  Having no compass. Knowles. 

COMPATERNITY:  The relation of a godfather to a person. [Obs.] The relation of gossipred or compaternity by the cannon law is a spiritual affinity. Sir J. Da 

COMPATIBILITY:  The quality or power of being compatible or congruous; congruity; as, a compatibility of tempers; a compatibility of properties. 

COMPATIBLE:  Capable of existing in harmony; congruous; suitable; not repugnant; -- usually followed by with. Our poets have joined together such qualities as are by nature the most compatible. Broome.  Syn.  -- Consistent; suitable; agreeable; accordant. 

COMPATIBLENESS:  Compatibility; consistency; fitness; agreement. 

COMPATIBLY:  In a compatible manner. 

COMPATIENT:  Suffering or enduring together. [Obs.] Sir G. Buck. 

COMPATRIOT:  One of the same country, and having like interests and feeling. The distrust with which they felt themselves to be regarded by their compatriots in America. Palfrey. 

COMPATRIOT:  Of the same country; having a common sentiment of patriotism. She [Britain] rears to freedom an undaunted race, Compatriot, zealous, hospitable, kind. Thomson. 

COMPATRIOTISM:  The condition of being compatriots. 

COMPEAR:  To appear in court personally or by attorney. [Scot] 

COMPEER:  An equal, as in rank, age, prowess, etc.; a companion; a comrade; a mate. And him thus answer 'd soon his bold compeer. Milton. 

COMPEER:  To be equal with; to match. [R.] In my rights, By me invested, he compeers the best. Shak.  COMPEER; COMPEIR Com*peer", Com*peir", v. i.  See Conpear. 

COMPEL:  To make one yield or submit. "If she can not entreat, I can not compel." Shak. 

COMPELLABLE:  Capable of being compelled or constrained. Blackstone. 

COMPELLABLY:  By compulsion. 

COMPELLATION:  Style of address or salutation; an appellation. "Metaphorical compellations." Milton. He useth this endearing compellation, "My little children." Bp. Beveridge. The peculiar compellation of the kings in France is by "Sire," which is nothing else but father. Sir W. Temple. 

COMPELLATIVE:  The name by which a person is addressed; an appellative. 

COMPELLATORY:  Serving to compel; compulsory. [R.] 

COMPELLER:  One who compels or constrains. 

COMPEND:  A compendium; an epitome; a summary. A compend and recapitulation of the Mosaical law. Bp. Burnet. 

COMPENDIARIOUS:  Short; compendious. [Obs.] Bailey. 

COMPENDIATE:  To sum or collect together. [Obs.] Bp. King. 

COMPENDIOUS:  Containing the substance oe general principles of a subject or work in a narrow compass; abridged; summarized. More compendious and exeditious ways. Woodward. Three things be required in the oration of a man having authority -- that it be compendious, sententious, and delectable. Sir T. Elyot.  Syn.  -- Short; summary; abridged; condensed; comprehensive; succinct; brief; concise. 

COMPENDIOUSLY:  In a compendious manner. Compendiously exressed by the word chaos. Bentley. 

COMPENDIOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being compendious. 

COMPENDIUM:  A brief compilation or composition, containing the principal heads, or general principles, of a larger work or system; an abridgment; an epitome; a compend; a condensed summary. A short system or compendium of a sience. I. Watts.  Syn.  -- See Abridgment. 

COMPENSATE:  To make amends; to supply an equivalent; -- followed by for; as, nothing can compensate for the loss of reputation. 

COMPENSATIVE:  Affording compensation. 

COMPENSATIVE:  Compensation. [R.] Lamb. 

COMPENSATOR:  An iron plate or magnet placed near the compass on iron vessels to neutralize the effect of the ship's attraction on the needle. 

COMPENSATORY:  Serving for compensation; making amends. Jer. Taylor. 

COMPENSE:  To compensate. [Obs.] Bacon. 

COMPERENDINATE:  To delay. Bailey. 

COMPESCE:  To hold in check; to restrain. [R.] Carlyle. 

COMPETE:  To contend emulously; to seek or strive for the same thing, position, or reward for which another is striving; to contend in rivalry, as for a prize or in business; as, tradesmen compete with one another. The rival statesmen, with eyes fixed on America, were all the while competing for European alliances. Bancroft.  COMPETENCE; COMPETENCY Com"pe*tence, Com"pe*ten*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. compétence, from L. competentia agreement.]  1. The state of being competent; fitness; ability; adequacy; power. The loan demonstrates, in regard to instrumental resources, the competency of this kingdom to the assertion of the common cause. Burke. To make them act zealously is not in the competence of law. Burke.  2. Property or means sufficient for the necessaries and conveniences of life; sifficiency without excess. Reason's whole pleasure, all the joys of sense, Lie in three words -- health, peace, and competence. Pope. Superfluity comes sooner by white hairs, but competency lives longer. Shak.  3. (Law) (a) Legal capacity or qualifications; fitness; as, the competency of a witness or of a evidence. (b) Right or authority; legal power or capacity to take cognizance of a cause; as, the competence of a judge or court. Kent. 

COMPETENTLY:  In a competent manner; adequately; suitably. 

COMPETIBLE:  Compatible; suitable; consistent. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

COMPETITION:  The act of seeking, or endevearing to gain, what another is endeavoring to gain at the same time; common strife for the same objects; strife for superiority; emulous contest; rivalry, as for approbation, for a prize, or as where two or more persons are engaged in the same business and each seeking patronage; -- followed by for before the object sought, and with before the person or thing competed with. Competition to the crown there is none, nor can be. Bacon. A portrait, with which one of Titian's could not come in competititon. Dryden. There is no competition but for the second place. Dryden. Where competition does not act at all there is complete monopoly. A. T. Hadley.  Syn.  -- Emulation; rivalry; rivalship; contest; struggle; contention; opposition; jealousy. See Emulation. 

COMPETITIVE:  Of or pertaining to competition; producing competition; competitory; as, a competitive examination. 

COMPETITORY:  Acting in competition; competing; rival. 

COMPETITRESS:  A woman who competes. 

COMPETITRIX:  A competitress. 

COMPILATOR:  Compiler. [Obs.] 

COMPILEMENT:  Compilation. [R.] 

COMPILER:  One who compiles; esp., one who makes books by compilation. 

COMPINGE:  To compress; to shut up. [Obs.] Burton.  COMPLACENCE; COMPLACENCY Com*pla"cence, Com*pla"cen*cy, n. Etym: [LL. complacentia: cf. F. complaisance. See Complacent, and cf. Complaisance.]  1. Calm contentment; satisfaction; gratification. The inward complacence we find in acting reasonably and virtuously. Atterbury. Others proclaim the infirmities of a great man with satisfaction and complacency, if they discover none of the like in themselves. Addison.  2. The cause of pleasure or joy. "O thou, my sole complacence." Milton.  3. The manifestation of contentment or satisfaction; good nature; kindness; civility; affability. Complacency, and truth, and manly sweetness, Dwell ever on his tongue, and smooth his thoughts. Addison. With mean complacence ne'er betray your trust. Pope. 

COMPLACENT:  Self-satisfied; contented; kindly; as, a complacent temper; a complacent smile. They look up with a sort of complacent awe . . . to kings. Burke. 

COMPLACENTIAL:  Marked by, or causing, complacence. [Obs.] "Complacential love." Baxter. 

COMPLACENTLY:  In a complacent manner. 

COMPLAIN:  To lament; to bewail. [Obs.] They might the grievance inwardly complain. Daniel. By chaste Lucrece's soul that late complain'd Her wrongs to us. Shak. 

COMPLAINABLE:  That may be complained of. [R.] Feltham. 

COMPLAINER:  One who complains or laments; one who finds fault; a murmurer. Beattie. Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought. Shak. 

COMPLAINT:  A formal allegation or charge against a party made or presented to the appropriate court or officer, as for a wrong done or a crime committed (in the latter case, generally under oath); an information; accusation; the initial bill in proceedings in equity.  Syn.  -- Lamentation; murmuring; sorrow; grief; disease; illness; disorder; malady; ailment. 

COMPLAINTFUL:  Full of complaint. [Obs.] 

COMPLAISANCE:  Disposition to please or oblige; obliging compliance with the wishes of others; a deportment indicative of a desire to please; courtesy; civility. These [ladies] . . . are by the just complaisance and gallantry of our nation the most powerful part of our people. Addison. They strive with their own hearts and keep them down, In complaisance to all the fools in town. Young.  Syn.  -- Civility; courtesy; urbanity; suavity; affability; good breeding. 

COMPLAISANT:  Desirous to please; courteous; obliging; compliant; as, a complaisant gentleman. There are to whom my satire seems too bold: Scarce to wise Peter complaisant enough. Pope.  Syn.  -- Obliging; courteous; affable; gracious; civil; polite; well-bred. See Obliging.  -- Com"plai*sant`ly, adv.  -- Com"plai*sant`ness, n. 

COMPLANAR:  See Coplanar. 

COMPLANATE:  Flattened to a level surface. [R.] 

COMPLANATE:  To make level. [R.] 

COMPLECTED:  Complexioned. [Low, New Eng.] 

COMPLEMENT:  A second quantity added to a given quantity to make equal to a third given quantity.  5. Something added for ornamentation; an accessory. [Obs.] Without vain art or curious complements. Spenser.  6. (Naut.)  The whole working force of a vessel.  7. (Mus.)  The interval wanting to complete the octave; -- the fourth is the complement of the fifth, the sixth of the third.  8. A compliment. [Obs.] Shak. Arithmetical compliment of a logarithm. See under Logarithm.  -- Arithmetical complement of a number (Math.), the difference between that number and the next higher power of 10; as, 4 is the complement of 6, and 16 of 84.  -- Complement of an arc or angle (Geom.), the difference between that arc or angle and 90º.  -- Complement of a parallelogram. (Math.) See Gnomon.  -- In her complement (Her.), said of the moon when represented as full. 

COMPLEMENTARY:  Serving to fill out or to complete; as, complementary numbers. Complementary colors. See under Color.  -- Complementary angles (Math.), two angles whose sum is 90°. 

COMPLEMENTARY:  One skilled in compliments. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

COMPLETE:  Having all the parts or organs which belong to it or to the typical form; having calyx, corolla, stamens, and pistil.  Syn.  -- See Whole. 

COMPLETE:  To bring to a state in which there is no deficiency; to perfect; to consummate; to accomplish; to fulfill; to finish; as, to complete a task, or a poem; to complete a course of education. Bred only and completed to the taste Of lustful appetence. Milton. And, to complete her bliss, a fool for mate. Pope.  Syn.  -- To perform; execute; terminate; conclude; finish; end; fill up; achieve; realize; effect; consummate; accomplish; effectuate; fulfill; bring to pass. 

COMPLETELY:  In a complete manner; fully. 

COMPLETEMENT:  Act of completing or perfecting; completion. [Obs.] Dryden. 

COMPLETENESS:  The state of being complete. 

COMPLETIVE:  Making complete. [R.] J. Harris. 

COMPLETORY:  Serving to fulfill. Completory of ancient presignifications. Barrow. 

COMPLETORY:  Same as Compline. 

COMPLEX:  Assemblage of related things; colletion; complication. This parable of the wedding supper comprehends in it the whole complex of all the blessings and privileges exhibited by the gospel. South. Complex of lines (Geom.), all the possible straight lines in space being considered, the entire system of lines which satisfy a single relation constitute a complex; as, all the lines which meet a given curve make up a complex. The lines which satisfy two relations constitute a congruency of lines; as, the entire system of lines, each one of which meets two given surfaces, is a congruency. 

COMPLEXED:  Complex, complicated. [Obs.] "Complexed significations." Sir T. Browne. 

COMPLEXEDNESS:  The quality or state of being complex or involved; complication. The complexedness of these moral ideas. Locke. 

COMPLEXIONAL:  Of or pertaining to constitutional complexion. A moral rather than a complexional timidity. Burke. 

COMPLEXIONALLY:  Constitutionally. [R.] Though corruptible, not complexionally vicious. Burke. 

COMPLEXIONARY:  Pertaining to the complexion, or to the care of it. Jer. Taylor. 

COMPLEXIONED:  Having (such) a complexion; -- used in composition; as, a dark- complexioned or a ruddy-complexioned person. A flower is the best-complexioned grass, as a pearl is the best- colored clay. Fuller. 

COMPLEXLY:  In a complex manner; not simply. 

COMPLEXNESS:  The state of being complex; complexity. A. Smith. 

COMPLEXUS:  A complex; an aggregate of parts; a complication. 

COMPLIABLE:  Capable of bending or yielding; apt to yield; compliant. Another compliable mind. Milton. The Jews . . . had made their religion compliable, and accemodated to their passions. Jortin. 

COMPLIANCY:  Compliance; disposition to yield to others. Goldsmith. 

COMPLIANT:  Yielding; bending; pliant; submissive. "The compliant boughs." Milton. 

COMPLIANTLY:  In a compliant manner. 

COMPLICACY:  A state of being complicate or intricate. Mitford. 

COMPLICANT:  Overlapping, as the elytra of certain beetles. 

COMPLICATE:  Folded together, or upon itself, with the fold running lengthwise. 

COMPLICATE:  To fold or twist together; to combine intricately; to make complex; to combine or associate so as to make intricate or difficult. Nor can his complicated sinews fail. Young. Avarice and luxury very often become one complicated principle of action. Addison. When the disease is complicated with other diseases. Arbuthnot. 

COMPLICATELY:  In a complex manner. 

COMPLICATENESS:  Complexity. Sir M. Hale. 

COMPLICATION:  A disease or diseases, or adventitious circumstances or conditions, coexistent with and modifying a primary disease, but not necessarily connected with it. 

COMPLICE:  An accomplice. [Obs.] To quell the rebels and their complices. Shak. 

COMPLICITY:  The state of being an accomplice; participation in guilt. 

COMPLIER:  One who complies, yields, or obeys; one of an easy, yieldy temper. Swift. 

COMPLIMENT:  An expression, by word or act, of approbation, regard, confidence, civility, or admiration; a flattering speech or attention; a ceremonious greeting; as, to send one's compliments to a friend. Tedious waste of time, to sit and hear So many hollow compliments and lies. Milton. Many a compliment politely penned. Cowper. To make one a compliment, to show one respect; to praise one in a flattering way.Locke.  -- To make one's compliments to, to offer formal courtesias to.  -- To stand on compliment, to treat with ceremony.  Syn.  -- See Adulation. 

COMPLIMENT:  To praise, flatter, or gratify, by expressions of approbation, respect, or congratulation; to make or pay a compliment to. Monarchs should their inward soul disguise; . . . Should compliment their foes and shun their friends. Prior.  Syn.  -- To praise; flatter; adulate; commend. 

COMPLIMENT:  To pass compliments; to use conventional expressions of respect. I make the interlocutors, upon occasion, compliment with one another. Boyle. 

COMPLIMENTAL:  Complimentary. [Obs.] Languages . . . grow rich and abundant in complimental phrases, and such froth. Sir H. Wotton. -- Com`pli*men"tal*ly, adv. [Obs.] Boyle.  -- Com`pli*men"tal*ness, n. [Obs.] Hammond. 

COMPLIMENTARY:  Expressive of regard or praise; of the nature of, or containing, a compliment; as, a complimentary remark; a complimentary ticket. "Complimentary addresses." Prescott. 

COMPLIMENTATIVE:  Complimentary. [R.] Boswell. 

COMPLIMENTER:  One who compliments; one given to complimenting; a flatterer.  COMPLINE; COMPLIN Com"pline, Com"plin, n. Etym: [From OE. complie, OF. complie, F. complies, pl., fr. LL. completa (prop. fem. of L. completus) the religious exercise which completes and closes the service of the day. See Complete.] (Eccl.)  The last division of the Roman Catholic breviary; the seventh and last of the canonical hours of the Western church; the last prayer of the day, to be said after sunset. The custom of godly man been to shut up the evening with a compline of prayer at nine of the night. Hammond. 

COMPLOT:  A plotting together; a confederacy in some evil design; a conspiracy. I know their complot is to have my life. Shak. 

COMPLOT:  To plot or plan together; to conspire; to join in a secret design. We find them complotting together, and contriving a new scence of miseries to the Trojans. Pope. 

COMPLOTMENT:  A plotting together. [R.] 

COMPLOTTER:  One joined in a plot. Dryden. 

COMPLUTENSIAN:  Of or pertaining to Complutum (now Alcala de Henares) a city near Madrid; as, the Complutensian Bible. 

COMPLUVIUM:  A space left unroofed over the court of a Roman dwelling, through which the rain fell into the impluvium or cistern. 

COMPLY:  To infold; to embrace. [Obs.] Seemed to comply, Cloudlike, the daintie deitie. Herrick. 

COMPO:  Short for Composition; -- used, esp. in England, colloq. in various trade applications; as :  (a) A mortar made of sand and cement.  (b) A carver's mixture of resin, whiting, and glue, used  instead of plaster of Paris for ornamenting walls and cornices.  (c) A composition for billiard balls.  (d) A preparation of which printer's rollers are made.  (e) A preparation used in currying leather.  (f) Composition paid by a debtor. 

COMPONE:  To compose; to settle; to arrange. [Obs.] A good pretense for componing peace. Strype. 

COMPONE:  See Compony. 

COMPONENT:  Serving, or helping, to form; composing; constituting; constituent. The component parts of natural bodies. Sir I. Newton. 

COMPONENT:  A constituent part; an ingredient. Component of force (Mech.), a force which, acting conjointly with one or more forces, produces the effect of a single force or resultant; one of a number of forces into which a single force may be resolved.  COMPONY; COMPONE Com*po"ny, Com*po"né, a. Etym: [F. componé.] (Her.)  Divided into squares of alternate tinctures in a single row; -- said of any bearing; or, in the case of a bearing having curved lines, divided into patches of alternate colors following the curve. If there are two rows it is called counter-compony. 

COMPORT:  Manner of acting; behavior; conduct; deportment. [Obs.] I knew them well, and marked their rude comport. Dryden. 

COMPORTABLE:  Suitable; consistent. [Obs.] "Some comportable method." Wotton. 

COMPORTANCE:  Behavior; comport. [Obs.] Goodly comportance each to other bear. Spenser. 

COMPORTATION:  A bringing together. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson. 

COMPORTMENT:  Manner of acting; behavior; bearing. A graceful comportment of their bodies. Cowley. Her serious and devout comportment. Addison. 

COMPOSE:  To arrange (types) in a composing stick in order for printing; to set (type). 

COMPOSE:  To come to terms. [Obs.] Shak. 

COMPOSED:  Free from agitation; calm; sedate; quiet; tranquil; self- possessed. The Mantuan there in sober triumph sate, Composed his posture, and his look sedate. Pope. -- Com*pos"ed*ly (, adv.  -- Com*pos"ed*ness, n. 

COMPOSITAE:  A large family of dicotyledonous plants, having their flowers arranged in dense heads of many small florets and their anthers united in a tube. The daisy, dandelion, and asters, are examples. 

COMPOSITE:  Belonging to a certain order which is composed of the Ionic order grafted upon the Corinthian. It is called also the Roman or the Italic order, and is one of the five orders recognized by the Italian writers of the sixteenth century. See Capital.  3. (Bot.)  Belonging to the order Compositæ; bearing involucrate heads of many small florets, as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion. Composite carriage, a railroad car having compartments of different classes. [Eng.] -- Composite number (Math.), one which can be divided exactly by a number exceeding unity, as 6 by 2 or 3.prime number.  -- Composite photograph or portrait, one made by a combination, or blending, of several distinct photographs. F. Galton.  -- Composite sailing (Naut.), a combination of parallel and great circle sailing.  -- Composite ship, one with a wooden casing and iron frame. 

COMPOSITE:  That which is made up of parts or compounded of several elements; composition; combination; compound. [R.] 

COMPOSITION:  The adjustment of a debt, or avoidance of an obligation, by some form of compensation agreed on between the parties; also, the sum or amount of compensation agreed upon in the adjustment. Compositions for not taking the order of knighthood. Hallam. Cleared by composition with their creditors. Blackstone.  8. Synthesis as opposed to analysis. The investigation of difficult things by the method of analysis ought ever to precede the method of composition. Sir I. Newton. Composition cloth, a kind of clotch covered with a preparation making it waterproof.  -- Composition deed, an agreement for composition between a debtor and several creditors.  -- Composition plane (Crystallog.), the plane by which the two individuals of a twin crystal are united in their reserved positions.  -- Composition of forces (Mech.), the finding of a single force (called the resultant) which shall be equal in effect to two or more given forces (called the components) when acting in given directions. Herbert.  -- Composition metal, an alloy resembling brass, which is sometimes used instead of copper for sheathing vessels; -- also called Muntz metal and yellow metal.  -- Composition of proportion (Math.), an arrangement of four proportionals so that the sum of the arrangement of four proportionals so that the sum of the third and fourth to the fourth.COMPOSITIVE Com*pos"i*tive, a. Etym: [L. compositivus.]  Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded. [R.] 

COMPOSITIVE:  Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded. [R.] 

COMPOSITOR:  One who sets type and arranges it for use. 

COMPOSITOUS:  Belonging to the Compositæ; composite. [R.] Darwin.  COMPOS-MENTIS Com"pos-men"tis, n.  One who is compos mentis. [Colloq.] 

COMPOSSIBLE:  Able to exist with another thing; consistent. [R.] Chillingworth. 

COMPOST:  A mixture for fertilizing land; esp., a composition of various substances (as muck, mold, lime, and stable manure) thoroughly mingled and decomposed, as in a compost heap. And do not spread the compost on the weeds To make them ranker. Shak. 

COMPOSTURE:  Manure; compost. [Obs.] Shak. 

COMPOTATION:  The act of drinking or tippling together. [R.] The fashion of compotation. Sir W. Scott. 

COMPOTATOR:  One who drinks with another. [R.] Pope. 

COMPOTE:  A preparation of fruit in sirup in such a manner as to preserve its form, either whole, halved, or quartered; as, a compote of pears. Littr 

COMPOTIER:  A dish for holding compotes, fruit, etc. 

COMPOUND:  In the East Indies, an inclosure containing a house, outbuildings, etc. 

COMPOUND:  To effect a composition; to come to terms of agreement; to agree; to settle by a compromise; -- usually followed by with before the person participating, and for before the thing compounded or the consideration. Here's a fellow will help you to-morrow; . . . compound with him by the year. Shak. They were at last glad to compound for his bare commitment to the Tower. Clarendon. Cornwall compounded to furnish ten oxen after Michaelmas for thirty pounds. R. Carew. Compound for sins they are inclined to By damning those they have no mind to. Hudibras. 

COMPOUND:  Composed of two or more elements, ingredients, parts; produced by the union of several ingredients, parts, or things; composite; as, a compound word. Compound substances are made up of two or more simple substances. I. Watts. Compound addition, substraction, multiplication, division (Arith.), the addition, substraction, etc., of compound numbers.  -- Compound crystal (Crystallog.), a twin crystal, or one seeming to be made up of two or more crystals combined according to regular laws of composition.  -- Compound engine (Mech.), a form of steam engine in which the steam that has been used in a high-pressure cylinder is made to do further service in a larger low-pressure cylinder, sometimes in several larger cylinders, successively.  -- Compound ether. (Chem.) See under Ether.  -- Compound flower (Bot.), a flower head resembling a single flower, but really composed of several florets inclosed in a common calyxlike involucre, as the sunflower or dandelion.  -- Compound fraction. (Math.) See Fraction.  -- Compound fracture. See Fracture.  -- Compound householder, a householder who compounds or arranges with his landlord that his rates shall be included in his rents. [Eng.] -- Compound interest. See Interest.  -- Compound larceny. (Law) See Larceny.  -- Compound leaf (Bot.), a leaf having two or more separate blades or leaflets on a common leafstalk.  -- Compound microscope. See Microscope.  -- Compound motion. See Motion.  -- Compound number (Math.), one constructed according to a varying scale of denomination; as, 3 cwt., 1 qr., 5 lb.; -- called also denominate number.  -- Compound pier (Arch.), a clustered column.  -- Compound quantity (Alg.), a quantity composed of two or more simple quantities or terms, connected by the sign + (plus) or - (minus). Thus, a + b - c, and bb - b, are compound quantities.  -- Compound radical. (Chem.) See Radical.  -- Compound ratio (Math.), the product of two or more ratios; thus ab:cd is a ratio compounded of the simple ratios a:c and b:d.  -- Compound rest (Mech.), the tool carriage of an engine lathe.  -- Compound screw (Mech.), a screw having on the same axis two or more screws with different pitch (a differential screw), or running in different directions (a right and left screw).  -- Compound time (Mus.), that in which two or more simple measures are combined in one; as, 6-8 time is the joining of two measures of 3-8 time.  -- Compound word, a word composed of two or more words; specifically, two or more words joined together by a hyphen. 

COMPOUND:  A union of two or more ingredients in definite proportions by weight, so combined as to form a distinct substance; as, water is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen.  Note: Every definite chemical compound always contains the same elements, united in the same proportions by weight, and with the same internal arrangement. Binary compound (Chem.). See under Binary.  -- Carbon compounds (Chem.). See under Carbon. 

COMPOUNDABLE:  That may be compounded.  COMPOUND CONTROL Com"pound con*trol". (Aëronautics)  A system of control in which a separate manipulation, as of a rudder, may be effected by either of two movements, in different directions, of a single lever, etc. 

COMPOUNDER:  A Jacobite who favored the restoration of James II, on condition of a general amnesty and of guarantees for the security of the civil and ecclesiastical constitution of the realm. 

COMPRADOR:  A kind of steward or agent. [China] S. W. Williams 

COMPRECATION:  A praying together. [Obs.] Bp. Wilkins. 

COMPREHENSIBILITY:  The quality or state of being comprehensible; capability of being understood. 

COMPREHENSIBLENESS:  The quality of being comprehensible; comprehensibility. 

COMPREHENSION:  The complement of attributes which make up the notion signified by a general term.  5. (Rhet.)  A figure by which the name of a whole is put for a part, or that of a part for a whole, or a definite number for an indefinite. 

COMPREHENSIVE:  Possessing peculiarities that are characteristic of several diverse groups.  Note: The term is applied chiefly to early fossil groups which have a combination of structures that appear in more fully developed or specialized forms in later groups. Synthetic, as used by Agssiz, is nearly synonymous.  Syn.  -- Extensive; wide; large; full; compendious. 

COMPREHENSIVELY:  In a comprehensive manner; with great extent of scope. 

COMPREHENSIVENESS:  The quality of being comprehensive; extensiveness of scope. Compare the beauty and comprehensiveness of legends on ancient coins. Addison. 

COMPREHENSOR:  One who comprehends; one who has attained to a full knowledge. [Obs.] When I shall have dispatched this weary pilgrimage, and from a traveler shall come to be a comprehensor, farewell faith and welcome vision. Bp. Hall. 

COMPRESS:  A folded piece of cloth, pledget of lint, etc., used to cover the dressing of wounds, and so placed as, by the aid of a bandage, to make due pressure on any part. 

COMPRESSED:  Flattened lengthwise. Compessed air engine, an engine operated by the elastic force of compressed air.  COMPRESSED YEAST Com*pressed" yeast.  A cake yeast made by filtering the cells from the liquid in which they are grown, subjecting to heavy pressure, and mixing with starch or flour. 

COMPRESSIBILITY:  The quality of being compressible of being compressible; as, the compressibility of elastic fluids. 

COMPRESSIBLE:  Capable of being pressed together or forced into a narrower compass, as an elastic or spongy substance. 

COMPRESSIBLENESS:  The quality of being compressible; compressibility. 

COMPRESSION:  The act of compressing, or state of being compressed. "Compression of thought." Johnson.  COMPRESSION PROJECTILE Com*pres"sion pro*jec"tile.  A projectile constructed so as to take the grooves of a rifle by means of a soft copper band firmly attached near its base or, formerly, by means of an envelope of soft metal. In small arms the modern projectile, having a soft core and harder jacket, is subjected to compression throughout the entire cylindrical part. 

COMPRESSIVE:  Compressing, or having power or tendency to compress; as, a compressive force. 

COMPRESSOR:  Anything which serves to compress; as: (a) (Anat.) A muscle that compresses certain parts. (b) (Surg.) An instrument for compressing an artery (esp., the femoral artery) or other part. (c) An apparatus for confining or flattening between glass plates an object to be examined with the microscope; -- called also compressorium. (d) (Mach.) A machine for compressing gases; especially, an air compressor. 

COMPRESSURE:  Compression. 

COMPRINT:  To print surreptitiously a work belonging to another. E. Phillips. 

COMPRINT:  The surreptitious printing of another's copy or book; a work thus printed. 

COMPRISAL:  The act of comprising or comprehending; a compendium or epitome. A comprisal . . . and sum of all wickedness. Barrow. 

COMPRISE:  To comprehend; to include. Comprise much matter in few words. Hocker. Friendship does two souls in one comprise. Roscommon.  Syn.  -- To embrace; include; comprehend; contain; encircle; inclose; involve; imply. 

COMPROBATE:  To agree; to concur. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

COMPROMISER:  One who compromises. 

COMPROMISSORIAL:  Relating to compromise. [R.] Chalmers. 

COMPROVINCIAL:  Belonging to, or associated in, the same province. [Obs.] -- n.  One who belongs to the same province. [Obs.] The six islands, comprovincial In ancient times unto Great Britain. Spenser. 

COMPSOGNATHUS:  A genus of Dinosauria found in the Jurassic formation, and remarkable for having several birdlike features. 

COMPT:  Account; reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Shak. 

COMPT:  To compute; to count. [Obs.] See Count. 

COMPT:  Neat; spruce. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

COMPTER:  A counter. [Obs.] Shak.  COMPTE RENDU Compte" ren`du. Etym: [F.]  A report of an officer or agent. 

COMPTIBLE:  Accountable; responsible; sensitive. [Obs.] I am very comptible even to the least sinister usage. Shak. 

COMPTLY:  Neatly. [Obs.] Sherwood. 

COMPTOGRAPH:  A machine for adding numbers and making a printed record of the sum. 

COMPTOMETER:  A calculating machine; an arithmometer. 

COMPTROL:  See Control. 

COMPTROLER:  A controller; a public officer whose duty it is to examine certify accounts. 

COMPULSATIVE:  Compulsatory. [R.] Shak. 

COMPULSATIVELY:  By compulsion. [R.] 

COMPULSATORY:  Operating with force; compelling; forcing; constraininig; resulting from, or enforced by, compulsion. [R.] To recover of us, by strong hand And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands. Shak. 

COMPULSION:  The act of compelling, or the state of being compelled; the act of driving or urging by force or by physical or moral constraint; subjection to force. If reasons were as plentiful as blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon compulsion. Shak. With what complusion and laborious flight We sunk thus low. Milton.  Syn.  -- See Constraint. 

COMPULSIVE:  Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion. Religion is . . . inconsistent with all compulsive motives. Sharp. 

COMPULSIVELY:  By compulsion; by force. 

COMPULSORILY:  ; by force or constraint. 

COMPUNCT:  Affected with compunction; conscience-stricken. [Obs.] 

COMPUNCTIONLESS:  Without compunction. 

COMPUNCTIOUS:  Of the nature of compunction; caused by conscience; attended with, or causing, compunction. That no compunctious vistings of nature Shake my fell purpose. Shak. 

COMPUNCTIOUSLY:  With compunction. 

COMPUNCTIVE:  Sensitive in respect of wrongdoing; conscientious. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

COMPURGATION:  The act or practice of justifying or confirming a man's veracity by the oath of others; -- called also wager of law. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.  2. Exculpation by testimony to one's veracity or innocence. He was privileged from his childhood from suspicion of incontinency and needed no compurgation. Bp. Hacket. 

COMPURGATOR:  One who bears testimony or swears to the veracity or innocence of another. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager. All they who know me . . . will say they have reason in this matter to be my compurgators. Chillingworth. 

COMPURGATORIAL:  Relating to a compurgator or to compurgation. "Their compurgatorial oath." Milman. 

COMPUTABLE:  Capable of being computed, numbered, or reckoned. Not easily computable by arithmetic. Sir M. Hale. 

COMPUTE:  To determine calculation; to reckon; to count. Two days, as we compute the days of heaven. Milton. What's done we partly may compute, But know not what's resisted. Burns.  Syn.  -- To calculate; number; count; recken; estimate; enumerate; rate. See Calculate. 

COMPUTE:  Computation. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

COMPUTER:  One who computes. 

COMPUTIST:  A computer. 

COMRADE:  A mate, companion, or associate. And turned my flying comrades to the charge. J. Baillie. I abjure all roofs, and choose . . . To be a comrade with the wolf and owl. Shak. 

COMRADERY:  The spirit of comradeship; comradeship. [R.] "Certainly", said Dunham, with the comradery of the smoker. W. D. Howells. 

COMRADESHIP:  The state of being a comrade; intimate fellowship. 

COMROGUE:  A fellow rogue. [Obs.] 

COMTISM:  Positivism; the positive philosophy. See Positivism. 

COMTIST:  A disciple of Comte; a positivist.  CON; CON- Con  - (cum, signifying with, together, etc. See Com-. 

CON:  Against the affirmative side; in opposition; on the negative side; -- The antithesis of pro, and usually in connection with it. See Pro. 

CON:  To conduct, or superintend the steering of (a vessel); to watch the course of (a vessel) and direct the helmsman how to steer. 

CONACRE:  To underlet a proportion of, for a single crop; -- said of a farm. [Ireland] 

CONACRE:  A system of letting a proportion of a farm for a single crop. [Ireland] Also used adjectively; as, the conacre system or principle. Mozley & W. 

CONARIUM:  The pineal gland. 

CONATION:  The power or act which directs or impels to effort of any kind, whether muscular or psychical. Of conation, in other words, of desire and will. J. S. Mill. 

CONATIVE:  Of or pertaining to conation. This division of mind into the three great classes of the cognitive faculties, the feelings, . . . and the exertive or conative powers, . . . was first promulgated by Kant. Sir W. Hamilton. 

CONATUS:  A natural tendency inherent in a body to develop itself; an attempt; an effort. What conatus could give prickles to the porcupine or hedgehog, or to the sheep its fleece Paley. 

CONCATENATE:  To link together; to unite in a series or chain, as things depending on one another. This all things friendly will concatenate. Dr. H. More 

CONCATENATION:  A series of links united; a series or order of things depending on each other, as if linked together; a chain, a succession. The stoics affirmed a fatal, unchangeable concatenation of causes, reaching even to the illicit acts of man's will. South. A concatenation of explosions. W. Irving. 

CONCAUSE:  A joint cause. Fotherby. 

CONCAVATION:  The act of making concave. 

CONCAVE:  A curved sheath or breasting for a revolving cylinder or roll. 

CONCAVE:  To make hollow or concave. 

CONCAVED:  Bowed in the form of an arch; -- called also arched. 

CONCAVENESS:  Hollowness; concavity. 

CONCAVITY:  A concave surface, or the space bounded by it; the state of being concave.  CONCAVO-CONCAVE Con*ca`vo-con"cave, a.  Concave or hollow on both sides; double concave.  CONCAVO-CONVEX Con*ca`vo-con"vex, a.  1. Concave on one side and convex on the other, as an eggshell or a crescent.  2. (Optics)  Specifically, having such a combination of concave and convex sides as makes the focal axis the shortest line between them. See Illust. under Lens. 

CONCAVOUS:  Concave. Abp. potter.  -- Con*ca"vous*ly, adv. 

CONCEAL:  To hide or withdraw from observation; to cover; to cover or keep from sight; to prevent the discovery of; to withhold knowledge of. It is the glory of God to conceal a thing. Prov. xxv. 2. Declare ye among the nations, . . . publish and conceal not. Jer. 1. 2. He which finds him shall deserve our thanks, . . . He that conceals him, death. Shak.  Syn.  -- To hide; secrete; screen; cover; disguise; dissemble; mask; veil; cloak; screen.  -- To Conceal, Hide, Disguise, Dissemble, Secrete. To hide is the generic term, which embraces all the rest. To conceal is simply not make known what we wish to keep secret. In the Bible hide often has the specific meaning of conceal. See 1 Sam. iii. 17, 18. To disguise or dissemble is to conceal by assuming some false appearance. To secrete is to hide in some place of secrecy. A man may conceal facts, disguise his sentiments, dissemble his feelings, secrete stolen goods. Bur double griefs afflict concealing hearts. Spenser. Both dissemble deeply their affections. Shak. We have in these words a primary sense, which reveals a future state, and a secondary sense, which hides and secretes it. Warburton. 

CONCEALABLE:  Capable of being concealed. 

CONCEALED:  Hidden; kept from sight; secreted.  -- Con*ceal"ed*ly (, adv.  -- Con*ceal"ed*ness, n. Concealed weapons (Law), dangerous weapons so carried on the person as to be knowingly or willfully concealed from sight, -- a practice forbidden by statute. 

CONCEALER:  One who conceals. 

CONCEALMENT:  Suppression of such facts and circumstances as in justice ought to be made known. Wharton. 

CONCEDE:  To yield or make concession. I wished you to concede to America, at a time when she prayed concession at our feet. Burke. 

CONCEIT:  To conceive; to imagine. [Archaic] The strong, by conceiting themselves weak, are therebly rendered as inactive . . . as if they really were so. South. One of two bad ways you must conceit me, Either a coward or a flatterer. Shak. 

CONCEIT:  To form an idea; to think. [Obs.] Those whose . . . vulgar apprehensions conceit but low of matrimonial purposes. Milton. 

CONCEITEDNESS:  The state of being conceited; conceit; vanity. Addison. 

CONCEITLESS:  Without wit; stupid. [Obs.] Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless. To be seduced by thy flattery Shak. 

CONCEIVABLE:  Capable of being conceived, imagined, or understood. "Any conceivable weight." Bp. Wilkins. It is not conceivable that it should be indeed that very person whose shape and voice it assumed. Atterbury. -- Con*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Con*ceiv"a*bly, adv. 

CONCEIVER:  One who conceives. 

CONCELEBRATE:  To celebrate together. [Obs.] Holland. 

CONCENT:  To come to one point; to meet in, or converge toward, a common center; to have a common center. God, in whom all perfections concenter. Bp. Beveridge.  CONCENTER; CONCENTRE Con*cen"ter, Con*cen"tre, v. t.  To draw or direct to a common center; to bring together at a focus or point, as two or more lines; to concentrate. In thee concentering all their precious beams. Milton. All is concentered in a life intense. Byren. 

CONCENTRATE:  To approach or meet in a common center; to consolidate; as, population tends to concentrate in cities. 

CONCENTRATION:  The act or process of removing the dress of ore and of reducing the valuable part to smaller compass, as by currents of air or water. 

CONCENTRATIVE:  Serving or tending to concentrate; characterized by concentration. A discrimination is only possible by a concentrative act, or act of attention. Sir W. Hamilton. 

CONCENTRATIVENESS:  The faculty or propensity which has to do with concentrating the intellectual the intellectual powers. Combe. 

CONCENTRATOR:  An apparatus for the separation of dry comminuted ore, by exposing it to intermittent puffs of air. Knight.  CONCENTRIC; CONCENTRICAL Con*cen"tric, Con*cen"tric*al, a. Etym: [F. concentrique. See Concenter.]  Having a common center, as circles of different size, one within another. Concentric circles upon the surface of the water. Sir I. Newton. Concentrical rings like those of an onion. Arbuthnot. 

CONCENTRIC:  That which has a common center with something else. Its pecular relations to its concentrics. Coleridge. 

CONCENTRICALLY:  In a concentric manner. 

CONCENTRICITY:  The state of being concentric. 

CONCENTUAL:  Possesing harmony; accordant. [R.] Warton. 

CONCEPT:  An abstract general conception; a notion; a universal. The words conception, concept, notion, should be limited to the thought of what can not be represented in the imagination; as, the thought suggested by a general term. Sir W. Hamilton. 

CONCEPTIBILITY:  The quality of being conceivable; conceivableness. Cudworth. 

CONCEPTIBLE:  Capable of being conceived; conceivable. Sir M. Hale. 

CONCEPTIONAL:  Pertaining to conception. 

CONCEPTIONALIST:  A conceptualist. 

CONCEPTIOUS:  Apt to conceive; fruitful. [Obs.] Shak. 

CONCEPTIVE:  Capable of conceiving. Sir T. Browne 

CONCEPTUAL:  Pertaining to conception. 

CONCEPTUALISM:  A theory, intermediate between realism and nominalism, that the mind has the power of forming for itself general conceptions of individual or single objects. Stewart. 

CONCEPTUALIST:  One who maintains the theory of conceptualism. Stewart. 

CONCERN:  To be of importance. [Obs.] Which to deny concerns more than avails. Shak. 

CONCERN:  Persons connected in business; a firm and its business; as, a banking concern. The whole concern, all connected with a particular affair or business.  Syn.  -- Care; anxiety; solicitude; interest; regard; business; affair; matter; moment. See Care. 

CONCERNED:  Disturbed; troubled; solicitous; as, to be much concerned for the safety of a friend. 

CONCERNEDLY:  In a concerned manner; solicitously; sympathetically. 

CONCERNING:  Pertaining to; regarding; having relation to; respecting; as regards. I have accepted thee concerning this thing. Gen. xix. 21. The Lord hath spoken good concerning Israel. Num. x. 29. 

CONCERNING:  Important. [Archaic] So great and so concerning truth. South. 

CONCERT:  To act in harmony or conjunction; to form combined plans. The ministers of Denmark were appointed to concert with Talbot. Bp. Burnet 

CONCERTANTE:  A concert for two or more principal instruments, with orchestral accompaniment. Also adjectively; as, concertante parts. 

CONCERTATION:  Strife; contention. [Obs.] Bailey. 

CONCERTATIVE:  Contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Bailey. 

CONCERTED:  Mutually contrived or planned; agreed on; as, concerted schemes, signals. Concerted piece (Mus.), a composition in parts for several voices or instrument, as a trio, a quartet, etc. 

CONCERTINA:  A small musical imstrument on the principle of the accordion. It is a small elastic box, or bellows, having free reeds on the inside, and keys and handles on the outside of each of the two hexagonal heads. 

CONCERTINO:  A piece for one or more solo instruments with orchestra; -- more concise than the concerto. 

CONCERTION:  Act of concerting; adjustment. [R.] Young. 

CONCERTMEISTER:  The head violinist or leader of the strings in an orchestra; the sub-leader of the orchestra; concert master. 

CONCERTO:  A composition (usually in symphonic form with three movements) in which one instrument (or two or three) stands out in bold relief against the orchestra, or accompaniment, so as to display its qualities or the performer's skill.  CONCERT OF EUROPE; EUROPEAN CONCERT Concert of Europe, or European concert.  An agreement or understanding between the chief European powers to take only joint action in the (European) Eastern Question.  CONCERT OF THE POWERS Concert of the powers.  An agreement or understanding between the chief European powers, the United States, and Japan in 1900 to take only joint action in the Chinese aspect of the Eastern Question. 

CONCESSION:  The beneficiary of a concession or grant. 

CONCESSIONARY:  Of or pertaining to a concession. -- n.; pl. -ries.  A concessionaire. 

CONCESSIONIST:  One who favors concession. 

CONCESSIVE:  Implying concession; as, a concessive conjunction. Lowth. 

CONCESSIVELY:  By way of concession. 

CONCESSORY:  Conceding; permissive. 

CONCETTISM:  The use of concetti or affected conceits. [R.] C. Kingsley. 

CONCETTO:  Affected wit; a conceit. Chesterfield. 

CONCH:  A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to those of the genus Strombus, which are of large size. S. gigas is the large pink West Indian conch. The large king, queen, and cameo conchs are of the genus Cassis. See Cameo.  Note: The conch is sometimes used as a horn or trumpet, as in fogs at sea, or to call laborers from work.  2. In works of art, the shell used by Tritons as a trumpet.  3. One of the white natives of the Bahama Islands or one of their descendants in the Florida Keys; -- so called from the commonness of the conch there, or because they use it for food.  4. (Arch.)  See Concha, n.  5. The external ear. See Concha, n., 2. 

CONCHA:  The plain semidome of an apse; sometimes used for the entire apse.  2. (Anat.)  The external ear; esp. the largest and deepest concavity of the external ear, surrounding the entrance to the auditory canal. 

CONCHAL:  Pertaining to the concha, or external ear; as, the conchal cartilage. 

CONCHIFER:  One of the Conchifera. 

CONCHIFERA:  That class of Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells; the Lamellibranchiata. See Mollusca. 

CONCHIFEROUS:  Producing or having shells. 

CONCHIFORM:  Shaped like one half of a bivalve shell; shell-shaped. 

CONCHININE:  See Quinidine. 

CONCHITE:  A fossil or petrified conch or shell. 

CONCHITIC:  Composed of shells; containing many shells. 

CONCHOID:  A curve, of the fourth degree, first made use of by the Greek geometer, Nicomedes, who invented it for the purpose of trisecting an angle and duplicating the cube. 

CONCHOIDAL:  Having elevations or depressions in form like one half of a bivalve shell; -- applied principally to a surface produced by fracture. 

CONCHOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to, or connected with, conchology. 

CONCHOLOGIST:  One who studies, or is versed in, conchology. 

CONCHOLOGY:  The science of Mollusca, and of the shells which they form; malacology. 

CONCHOMETER:  An instrument for measuring shells, or the angle of their spire. 

CONCHOMETRY:  The art of measuring shells or their curves; conchyliometry.  CONCHO-SPIRAL Con`cho-spi"ral, n.  A kind of spiral curve found in certain univalve shells. Agassiz.  CONCHYLACEOUS; CONCHYLIACEOUS Con`chy*la"ceous, Con*chyl`i*a"ceous, a. Etym: [L. conchylium shell, Gr. Conch.]  Of or pertaining to shells; resembling a shell; as, conchyliaceous impressions. Kirwan.  CONCHYLIOLOGIST; CONCHYLIOLOGY Con*chyl`i*ol"o*gist, n., Con*chyl`i*ol"o*gy, n.  See Conchologist, and Conchology. 

CONCHYLIOMETRY:  Same as Conchometry. 

CONCHYLIOUS:  Conchylaceous. 

CONCIATOR:  The person who weighs and proportions the materials to be made into glass, and who works and tempers them. 

CONCIERGE:  One who keeps the entrance to an edifice, public or private; a doorkeeper; a janitor, male or female. 

CONCILIABLE:  A small or private assembly, especially of an ecclesiastical nature. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CONCILIABLE:  Capable of being conciliated or reconciled. Milton. 

CONCILIABULE:  An obscure ecclesiastical council; a conciliable. Milman.  CONCILIAR; CONCILIARY Con*cil"i*ar, Con*cil"i*a*ry a. Etym: [Cf. F. conciliare.]  Of or pertaining to, or issued by, a council. Jer. Taylor. 

CONCILIATE:  To win ower; to gain from a state of hostility; to gain the good will or favor of; to make friendly; to mollify; to propitiate; to appease. The rapacity of his father's administration had excited such universal discontent, that it was found expedient to conciliate the nation. Hallam.  Syn.  -- To reconcile; propitiate; appease; pacify. 

CONCILIATION:  The act or process of conciliating; the state of being conciliated. The house has gone further; it has declared conciliation admissible previous to any submission on the part of America. Burke. 

CONCILIATIVE:  Conciliatory. Coleridge. 

CONCILIATOR:  One who conciliates. 

CONCILIATORY:  Tending to conciliate; pacific; mollifying; propitiating. The only alternative, therefore, was to have recourse to the conciliatory policy. Prescott. 

CONCINNATE:  To place fitly together; to adapt; to clear. [Obs.] Holland. 

CONCINNITY:  Internal harmony or fitness; mutual adaptation of parts; elegance; -- used chiefly of style of discourse. [R.] An exact concinnity and eveness of fancy. Howell. 

CONCINNOUS:  Characterized by concinnity; neat; elegant. [R.] The most concinnous and most rotund of proffessors, M. Heyne. De Quiency. 

CONCIONATE:  To preach. [Obs.] Lithgow. 

CONCIONATOR:  A common councilman. [Obs.] 

CONCIONATORY:  Of or pertaining to preaching or public addresses. [Obs.] Howell. 

CONCISE:  Expressing much in a few words; condensed; brief and compacted; -- used of style in writing or speaking. The concise style, which expresseth not enough, but leaves somewhat to be understood. B. Jonson. Where the author is . . . too brief and concise, amplify a little. I. Watts.  Syn.  -- Laconic; terse; brief; short; compendious; summary; succinct. See Laconic, and Terse. 

CONCISELY:  In a concise manner; briefly. 

CONCISENESS:  The quality of being concise. 

CONCISION:  A cutting off; a division; a schism; a faction. South. 

CONCITATION:  The act of stirring up, exciting, or agitating. [Obs.] "The concitation of humors." Sir T. Browne. 

CONCITE:  To excite or stir up. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

CONCLAMATION:  An outcry or shout of many together. [R.] Before his funeral conclamation. May (Lucan). 

CONCLAVIST:  One of the two ecclesiastics allowed to attend a cardinal in the conclave. 

CONCLUDENCY:  Deduction from premises; inference; conclusion. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

CONCLUDENT:  Bringing to a close; decisive; conclusive. [Obs.] Arguments highly consequential and concludent to my purpose. Sir M. Hale. 

CONCLUDER:  One who concludes. 

CONCLUDINGLY:  Conclusively. [R.] Digby. 

CONCLUSIBLE:  Demonstrable; determinable. [Obs.] Hammond. 

CONCLUSION:  The inferred proposition of a syllogism; the necessary consequence of the conditions asserted in two related propositions called premises. See Syllogism. He granted him both the major and minor, but denied him the conclusion. Addison.  5. Drawing of inferences. [Poetic] Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes And still conclusion. Shak.  6. An experiment, or something from which a conclusion may be drawn. [Obs.] We practice likewise all conclusions of grafting and inoculating. Bacon.  7. (Law) (a) The end or close of a pleading, e.g., the formal ending of an indictment, "against the peace," etc. (b) An estoppel or bar by which a person is held to a particular position. Wharton. Conclusion to the country (Law), the conclusion of a pleading by which a party "puts himself upon the country," i.e., appeals to the verdict of a jury. Mozley & W.  -- In conclusion. (a) Finally. (b) In short.  -- To try conclusions, to make a trial or an experiment. Like the famous ape, To try conclusions, in the basket creep. Shak.  Syn.  -- Inference; deduction; result; consequence; end; decision. See Inference. 

CONCLUSIVE:  Belonging to a close or termination; decisive; convincing; putting an end to debate or question; leading to, or involving, a conclusion or decision. Secret reasons . . . equally conclusive for us as they were for them. Rogers. Conclusive evidence (Law), that of which, from its nature, the law allows no contradiction or explanation.  -- Conclusive presumption (Law), an inference which the law makes so peremptorily that it will not allow it to be overthrown by any contrary proof, however strong.  Syn.  -- Final; ultimate; unanswerable. See Final. 

CONCLUSIVELY:  In the way of conclusion; decisively; positively. Burke. 

CONCLUSIVENESS:  The quality of being conclusive; decisiveness. 

CONCLUSORY:  Conclusive. [R.] 

CONCOCTER:  One who concocts. 

CONCOCTION:  Abatement of a morbid process, as a fever and return to a normal condition. [Obs.]  5. The act of perfecting or maturing. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CONCOCTIVE:  Having the power of digesting or ripening; digestive. Hence the concoctive powers, with various art, Subdue the cruder aliments to chyle. J. Armstrong. 

CONCOLOR:  Of the same color; of uniform color. [R.] "Concolor animals." Sir T. Browne. 

CONCOLOROUS:  Of the same color throughout.  CONCOMITANCE; CONCOMITANCY Con*com"i*tance, Con*com"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. concomitance, fr. LL. concomitantia.]  1. The state of accompanying; accompaniment. The secondary action subsisteth not alone, but in concomitancy with the other. Sir T. Browne.  2. (R.C.Ch.)  The doctrine of the existence of the entire body of Christ in the eucharist, under each element, so that the body and blood are both received by comunication in one kind only. 

CONCOMITANT:  Accompanying; conjoined; attending. It has pleased our wise Creator to annex to several objects, as also to several of our thoughts, a concomitant pleasure. Locke. 

CONCOMITANT:  One who, or that which, accompanies, or is collaterally connected with another; a companion; an associate; an accompaniment. Reproach is a concomitant to greatness. Addison. The other concomitant of ingratitude is hardheartedness. South. 

CONCOMITANTLY:  In company with others; unitedly; concurrently. Bp. pearson. 

CONCORD:  Agreement of words with one another, in gender, number, person, or case.  4. (Old Law)  An agreement between the parties to a fine of land in reference to the manner in which it should pass, being an acknowledgment that the land in question belonged to the complainant. See Fine. Burril.  5. Etym: [Prob. influenced by chord.] (Mus.)  An agreeable combination of tones simultaneously heard; a consonant chord; consonance; harmony. 

CONCORD:  A variety of American grape, with large dark blue (almost black) grapes in compact clusters. 

CONCORD:  To agree; to act together. [Obs.] Clarendon. 

CONCORDABLE:  Capable of according; agreeing; harmonious. 

CONCORDANCE:  Concord; agreement. [Obs.] Aschlam.  3. An alphabetical verbal index showing the places in the text of a book where each principal word may be found, with its immediate context in each place. His knowledge of the Bible was such, that he might have been called a living concordance. Macaulay.  4. A topical index or orderly analysis of the contents of a book. 

CONCORDANCY:  Agreement. W. Montagu. 

CONCORDANT:  Agreeing; correspondent; harmonious; consonant. Were every one employed in points concordant to their natures, professions, and arts, commonwealths would rise up of themselves. Sir T. Browne 

CONCORDANTLY:  In a concordant manner. 

CONCORDAT:  A kind of buggy having a body with low sides, and side springs. 

CONCORDIST:  The compiler of a concordance. 

CONCORPORATE:  To unite in one mass or body; to incorporate. [Archaic.] Jer. Taylor. 

CONCORPORATE:  United in one body; incorporated. [Archaic] B. Jonson. 

CONCORPORATION:  Union of things in one mass or body. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

CONCREATE:  To create at the same time. If God did concreate grace with Adam. Jer. Taylor. 

CONCREMATION:  The act of burning different things together. [Obs.] 

CONCREMENT:  A growing together; the collection or mass formed by concretion, or natural union. [Obs.] The concrement of a pebble or flint. Sir M. Hale 

CONCRESCENCE:  Coalescence of particles; growth; increase by the addition of particles. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

CONCRESCIBLE:  Capable of being changed from a liquid to a solid state. [Obs.] They formed a . . . fixed concrescible oil. Fourcroy (Trans. ). 

CONCRESCIVE:  Growing together, or into union; uniting. [R.] Eclec. Rev. 

CONCRETE:  A term designating both a quality and the subject in which it exists; a concrete term. The concretes "father" and "son" have, or might have, the abstracts "paternity" and "filiety". J. S. Mill.  4. (Sugar Making)  Sugar boiled down from cane juice to a solid mass. 

CONCRETE:  To unite or coalesce, as separate particles, into a mass or solid body.  Note: Applied to some substances, it is equivalent to indurate; as, metallic matter concretes into a hard body; applied to others, it is equivalent to congeal, thicken, inspissate, coagulate, as in the concretion of blood. "The blood of some who died of the plague could not be made to concrete." Arbuthnot. 

CONCRETELY:  In a concrete manner. 

CONCRETENESS:  The quality of being concrete. 

CONCRETION:  A rounded mass or nodule produced by an aggregation of the material around a center; as, the calcareous concretions common in beds of clay. 

CONCRETIONAL:  Concretionary. 

CONCRETIONARY:  Pertaining to, or formed by, concretion or aggregation; producing or containing concretions. 

CONCRETIVE:  Promoting concretion. Sir T. Browne. 

CONCRETIVELY:  In a concrete manner. 

CONCRETURE:  A mass formed by concretion. [Obs.] Johnson. 

CONCREW:  To grow together. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CONCRIMINATION:  A joint accusation. 

CONCUBINACY:  The practice of concubinage. [Obs.] Strype. 

CONCUBINAGE:  A plea, in which it is alleged that the woman suing for dower was not lawfully married to the man in whose lands she seeks to be endowed, but that she was his concubine. 

CONCUBINAL:  Of or pertaining to concubinage. 

CONCUBINARIAN:  Concubinary. The married and concubinarian, as well as looser clergy. Milman. 

CONCUBINARY:  Relating to concubinage; living in concubinage. 

CONCUBINARY:  One who lives in concubinage. Jer. Taylor. 

CONCUBINATE:  Concubinage. [Obs.] Johnson. 

CONCULCATE:  To tread or trample under foot. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu -- Con`cul*ca"tion (, n. [Obs.] 

CONCUPISCENCE:  Sexual lust; morbid carnal passion. Concupiscence like a pestilence walketh in darkness. Horne. 

CONCUPISCENT:  Having sexual lust; libidinous; lustful; lecherous; salacious. Johnson. 

CONCUPISCENTIAL:  Relating to concupiscence. [Obs.] Johnson. 

CONCUPISCENTIOUS:  Concupiscent. [Obs.] 

CONCUPISCIBLENESS:  The state of being concupiscible. [Obs.] 

CONCUPY:  Concupiscence.  Note: [Used only in "Troilus and Cressida"] Shak. 

CONCURRENCY:  Concurrence. 

CONCURRENT:  Meeting in one point.  Syn.  -- Meeting; uniting; accompanying; conjoined; associated; coincident; united. 

CONCURRENT:  One of the supernumerary days of the year over fifty-two complete weeks; -- so called because they concur with the solar cycle, the course of which they follow. 

CONCURRENTLY:  With concurrence; unitedly. 

CONCURRENTNESS:  The state or quality of being concurrent; concurrence. 

CONCURRING:  Agreeing. Concurring figure (Geom.), one which, being laid on another, exactly meets every part of it, or one which correspondends with another in all its parts. 

CONCUSS:  To force (a person) to do something, or give up something, by intimidation; to coerce. Wharton. 

CONCUSSATION:  A violent shock or agitation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

CONCUSSION:  A condition of lowered functional activity, without visible structural change, produced in an organ by a shock, as by fall or blow; as, a concussion of the brain.  3. (Civil Law)  The unlawful forcing of another by threats of violence to yield up something of value. Then concussion, rapine, pilleries, Their catalogue of accusations fill. Daniel. Concussion fuse (Mil.), one that is ignited by the concussion of the shell when it strikes.  Syn.  -- See Shock. 

CONCUSSIVE:  Having the power or quality of shaking or agitating. Johnson. 

COND:  To con, as a ship. 

CONDEMN:  To doom to be taken for public use, under the right of eminent domain.  Syn.  -- To blame; censure; reprove; reproach; upbraid; reprobate; convict; doom; sentence; adjudge. 

CONDEMNABLE:  Worthy of condemnation; blamable; culpable. 

CONDEMNATORY:  Condemning; containing or imposing condemnation or censure; as, a condemnatory sentence or decree. 

CONDEMNER:  One who condemns or censures. 

CONDENSABILITY:  Capability of being condensed. 

CONDENSABLE:  Capable of being condensed; as, vapor is condensable. 

CONDENSATE:  Made dense; condensed. Water . . . thickened or condensate. Peacham. 

CONDENSATE:  To condense. [R.] Hammond. 

CONDENSATION:  The act or process of reducing, by depression of temperature or increase of pressure, etc., to another and denser form, as gas to the condition of a liquid or steam to water.  3. (Chem.)  A rearrangement or concentration of the different constituents of one or more substances into a distinct and definite compound of greater complexity and molecular weight, often resulting in an increase of density, as the condensation of oxygen into ozone, or of acetone into mesitylene. Condensation product (Chem.), a substance obtained by the polymerization of one substance, or by the union of two or more, with or without separation of some unimportant side products.  -- Surface condensation, the system of condensing steam by contact with cold metallic surfaces, in distinction from condensation by the injection of cold water. 

CONDENSATIVE:  Having the property of condensing. 

CONDENSE:  To reduce into another and denser form, as by cold or pressure; as, to condense gas into a liquid form, or steam into water. Condensed milk, milk reduced to the consistence of very thick cream by evaporation (usually with addition of sugar) for preservation and transportation.  -- Condensing engine, a steam engine in which the steam is condensed after having exerted its force on the piston.  Syn.  -- To compress; contract; crowd; thicken; concentrate; abridge; epitomize; reduce. 

CONDENSE:  Condensed; compact; dense. [R.] The huge condense bodies of planets. Bentley. 

CONDENSER:  An apparatus for receiving and condensing the volatile products of distillation to a liquid or solid form, by cooling.  4. (Steam Engine)  An apparatus, separate from the cylinder, in which the exhaust steam is condensed by the action of cold water or air. See Illust. of Steam engine. Achromatic condenser (Optics), an achromatic lens used as a condenser.  -- Bull's-eye condenser, or Bull's-eye (Optics), a lens of short focal distance used for concentrating rays of light.  -- Injection condenser, a vessel in which steam is condensed by the direct contact of water.  -- Surface condenser, an apparatus for condensing steam, especially the exhaust of a steam engine, by bringing it into contact with metallic surface cooled by water or air. 

CONDENSIBLE:  Capable of being condensed; as, a gas condensible to a liquid by cold. 

CONDER:  One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker. 

CONDESCEND:  Condescension. [Obs.] 

CONDESCENDINGLY:  In a condescending manner. Atterbury. 

CONDESCENSION:  The act of condescending; voluntary descent from one's rank or dignity in intercourse with an inferior; courtesy toward inferiors. It forbids pride . . . and commands humility, modesty, and condescension to others. Tillotson. Such a dignity and condescension . . . as are suitable to a superior nature. Addison.  Syn.  -- Complaisance; courtesy; affability. 

CONDESCENT:  An act of condescension. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

CONDIGNITY:  Merit, acguired by works, which can claim reward on the score of general benevolence. Such a worthiness of condignity, and proper merit of the heavenly glory, cannot be found in any the best, most perfect, and excellent of created beings. Bp. Bull. 

CONDIGNLY:  According to merit. 

CONDIGNNESS:  Agreeableness to deserts; suitableness. 

CONDIMENT:  Something used to give relish to food, and to gratify the taste; a pungment and appetizing substance, as pepper or mustard; seasoning. As for radish and the like, they are for condiments, and not for nourishment. Bacon. 

CONDISCIPLE:  A schoolfellow; a fellow-student. [R.] 

CONDITE:  Preserved; pickled. [Obs.] Burton. 

CONDITE:  To pickle; to preserve; as, to condite pears, quinces, etc. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

CONDITION:  A clause in a contract, or agreement, which has for its object to suspend, to defeat, or in some way to modify, the principal obligation; or, in case of a will, to suspend, revoke, or modify a devise or bequest. It is also the case of a future uncertain event, which may or may not happen, and on the occurrence or non-occurrence of which, the accomplishment, recission, or modification of an obligation or testamentary disposition is made to depend. Blount. Tomlins. Bouvier. Wharton. Equation of condition. (Math.) See under Equation.  -- On or Upon condition (that), used for if in introducing conditional sentences. "Upon condition thou wilt swear to pay him tribute . . . thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him." Shak.  -- Conditions of sale, the terms on which it is proposed to sell property by auction; also, the instrument containing or expressing these terms.  Syn.  -- State; situation; circumstances; station; case; mode; plight; predicament; stipulation; qualification; requisite; article; provision; arrangement. See State. 

CONDITION:  To impose upon an object those relations or conditions without which knowledge and thought are alleged to be impossible. To think of a thing is to condition. Sir W. Hamilton. 

CONDITION:  To put under conditions; to require to pass a new examination or to make up a specified study, as a condition of remaining in one's class or in college; as, to condition a student who has failed in some branch of study.  4. To test or assay, as silk (to ascertain the proportion of moisture it contains). McElrath.  train; acclimate. 

CONDITIONAL:  Expressing a condition or supposition; as, a conditional word, mode, or tense. A conditional proposition is one which asserts the dependence of one categorical proposition on another. Whately. The words hypothetical and conditional may be . . . used synonymously. J. S. Mill. 

CONDITIONALITY:  The quality of being conditional, or limited; limitation by certain terms. 

CONDITIONALLY:  In a conditional manner; subject to a condition or conditions; not absolutely or positively. Shak. 

CONDITIONATE:  Conditional. [Obs.] Barak's answer is faithful, though conditionate. Bp. Hall. 

CONDITIONLY:  Conditionally. [Obs.] 

CONDITORY:  A repository for holding things; a hinding place. 

CONDOG:  To concur; to agree. [Burlesque]  Note: This word appears in early dictionaries as a synonym for the word agree; thus. "Agree; concurre, cohere, condog, condescend." Cockeram. 

CONDOLATORY:  Expressing condolence. Smart. 

CONDOLE:  To express sympathetic sorrow; to grieve in sympathy; -- followed by with. Your friends would have cause to rejoice, rather than condole with you. Sir W. Temple. 

CONDOLE:  To lament or grieve over. [R.] I come not, Samson, to condole thy chance. Milton. 

CONDOLENCE:  Expression of sympathy with another in sorrow or grief. Their congratulations and their condolences. Steele. A special mission of condolence. Macaulay. 

CONDOLER:  One who condoles. 

CONDONATION:  Forgiveness, either express or implied, by a husband of his wife or by a wife of her husband, for a breach of marital duty, as adultery, with an implied condition that the offense shall not be repeated. Bouvier. Wharton. 

CONDONE:  To pardon; to overlook the offense of; esp., to forgive for a violation of the marriage law; -- said of either the husband or the wife. 

CONDOR:  A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphus gryphus), found in the most elevated parts of the Andes. 

CONDOTTIERE:  A military adventurer of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, who sold his services, and those of his followers, to any party in any contest. 

CONDUCE:  To lead or tend, esp. with reference to a favorable or desirable result; to contribute; -- usually followed by to or toward. He was sensible how much such a union would conduce to the happiness of both. Macaulay. The reasons you allege do more conduce To the hot passion of distemper'd blood. Shak.  Syn.  -- To contribute; aid; assist; tend; subserve. 

CONDUCE:  To conduct; to lead; to guide. [Obs.] He was sent to conduce hither the princess. Sir H. Wotton. 

CONDUCENT:  Conducive; tending. Conducent to the good success of this business. Abp. Laud. 

CONDUCIBILITY:  The state or quality of being conducible; conducibleness. Bp. Wilkins. 

CONDUCIBLE:  Conducive; tending; contributing. Bacon. All his laws are in themselves conducible to the temporal interest of them that observe them. Bentley. 

CONDUCIBLENESS:  Quality of being conducible. 

CONDUCIBLY:  In a manner to promote. [R.] 

CONDUCIVE:  Loading or tending; helpful; contributive; tending to promote. However conducive to the good or our country. Addison. 

CONDUCIVENESS:  The quality of conducing. 

CONDUCT:  To serve as a medium for conveying; to transmit, as heat, light, electricity, etc.  5. (Mus.)  To direct, as the leader in the performance of a musical composition. 

CONDUCTANCE:  Conducting power; -- the reciprocal of resistance. A suggested unit is the mho, the reciprocal of the ohm.  Conductance is an attribute of any specified conductor, and refers to its shape, length, and other factors. Conductivity is an attribute of any specified material without direct reference to its shape or other factors. Sloane's Elec. Dict. 

CONDUCTIBLE:  Capable of being conducted. 

CONDUCTION:  Transmission through, or by means of, a conductor; also, conductivity. [The] communication [of heat] from one body to another when they are in contact, or through a homogenous body from particle to particle, constitutes conduction. Amer. Cyc. 

CONDUCTIVE:  Having the quality or power of conducting; as, the conductive tissue of a pistil. The ovarian walls . . . are seen to be distinctly conductive. Goodale (Gray's Bot. ). 

CONDUCTIVITY:  The quality or power of conducting, or of receiving and transmitting, as, the conductivity of a nerve. Thermal conductivity (Physics), the quantity of heat that passes in unit time through unit area of plate whose thickness is unity, when its opposite faces differ in temperature by one degree. J. D. Everett.  -- Thermometic conductivity (Physics), the thermal conductivity when the unit of heat employed is the heat required to raise unit volume of the substance one degree. 

CONDUCTOR:  The leader or director of an orchestra or chorus.  4. (Physics)  A substance or body capable of being a medium for the transmission of certain forces, esp. heat or electricity; specifically, a lightning rod.  5. (Surg.)  A grooved sound or staff used for directing instruments, as lithontriptic forceps, etc.; a director.  6. (Arch.)  Same as Leader. Prime conductor (Elec.), the largest conductor of an electrical machine, serving to collect, accumulate, or retain the electricity. 

CONDUCTORY:  Having the property of conducting. [R.] 

CONDUCTRESS:  A woman who leads or directs; a directress. 

CONDUIT:  A system of electric traction, esp. for light railways, in which the actuating current passes along a wire or rail laid in an underground conduit, from which the current is "picked up" by a plow or other device fixed to the car or electric locomotive.  Hence Conduit railway. 

CONDUPLICATE:  Folded lengthwise along the midrib, the upper face being within; -- said of leaves or petals in vernation or æstivation. 

CONDUPLICATION:  A doubling together or folding; a duplication. [R.] 

CONDURANGO:  See Cundurango. 

CONDURRITE:  A variety of the mineral domeykite, or copper arsenide, from the Condurra mine in Cornwall, England. 

CONDYLAR:  Of or pertaining to a condyle. Condylar foramen (Anat.), a formen in front of each condyle of the occipital bone; -- sometimes called the anterior condylar foramen when a second, or posterior, foramen is present behind the condyle, as often happens in man. 

CONDYLE:  A bony prominence; particularly, an eminence at the end of a bone bearing a rounded articular surface; -- sometimes applied also to a concave articular surface. 

CONDYLOID:  Shaped like or pertaining to a condyle.  CONDYLOMA; CONDYLOME Con`dy*lo"ma, Con"dy*lome, n.; pl. Condylomata or, E. Condylomes. Etym: [NL. condyloma, fr. Gr. -oma.] (Med.)  A wartlike new growth on the outer skin or adjoining mucous membrance.  Note: There are two kinds of condylomata, the pointed and the broad, the latter being of syphilitic origin. 

CONDYLOPOD:  An arthropod. 

CONE:  A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right- angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; - - called also a right cone. More generally, any solid having a vertical point and bounded by a surface which is described by a straight line always passing through that vertical point; a solid having a circle for its base and tapering to a point or vertex.  2. Anything shaped more or less like a mathematical cone; as, a volcanic cone, a collection of scoriæ around the crater of a volcano, usually heaped up in a conical form. Now had Night measured with her shadowy cone Half way up hill this vast sublunar vault. Milton.  3. (Bot.)  The fruit or strobile of the Coniferæ, as of the pine, fir, cedar, and cypress. It is composed of woody scales, each one of which has one or two seeds at its base.  4. (Zoöl.)  A shell of the genus Conus, having a conical form. Cone of rays (Opt.), the pencil of rays of light which proceed from a radiant point to a given surface, as that of a lens, or conversely.  -- Cone pulley. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Oblique or Scalene cone, a cone of which the axis is inclined to the plane of its base.  -- Eight cone. See Cone, 1. 

CONE:  To render coneshaped; to bevel like the circular segment of a cone; as, to cone the tires of car wheels.  CONE CLUTCH Cone clutch. (Mach.)  A friction clutch with conical bearing surfaces. 

CONEFLOWER:  Any plant of the genus Rudbeckia; -- so called from the cone- shaped disk of the flower head. Also, any plant of the related genera Ratibida and Brauneria, the latter usually known as purple coneflower.  CONE-IN-CONE Cone"-in-cone", a. (Geol.)  Consisting of a series of parallel cones, each made up of many concentric cones closely packed together; -- said of a kind of structure sometimes observed in sedimentary rocks. 

CONEINE:  See Conine.  CONE-NOSE Cone"-nose`, n.  A large hemipterous insect of the family Reduviidæ, often found in houses, esp. in the southern and western United States. It bites severely, and is one of the species called kissing bugs. It is also called big bedbug.  CONEPATE; CONEPATL Co"ne*pate, Co"ne*patl, n. Etym: [Mexican conepatl and epatl.] (Zoöl.)  The skunk.  CONE PULLEY Cone" pul"ley.  A pulley for driving machines, etc., having two or more parts or steps of different diameters; a pulley having a conical shape.  CONESTOGA WAGON; CONESTOGA WAIN Con`es*to"ga wag`on, Con`es*to"ga wain. [From Conestoga, Pennsylvania.]  A kind of large broad-wheeled wagon, usually covered, for traveling in soft soil and on prairies. 

CONEY:  A rabbit. See Cony.  2. (Zoöl.)  A fish. See Cony. 

CONFAB:  Familiar talk or conversation. [Colloq.] 

CONFABULATE:  To talk familiarly together; to chat; to prattle. I shall not ask Jean Jaques Rousseau If birds confabulate or no. Cowper. 

CONFABULATION:  Familiar talk; easy, unrestrained, unceremonious conversation. Friends' confabulations are comfortable at all times, as fire in winter. Burton. 

CONFABULATORY:  Of the nature of familiar talk; in the form of a dialogue. Weever. 

CONFALON:  One of a fraternity of seculars, also called Penitents. 

CONFARREATION:  A form of marriage among the Romans, in which an offering of bread was made, in presence of the high priest and at least ten witnesses. 

CONFATED:  Fated or decreed with something else. [R.] A. Tucker. 

CONFECT:  A comfit; a confection. [Obs.] At supper eat a pippin roasted and sweetened with sugar of roses and caraway confects. Harvey. 

CONFECTION:  A soft solid made by incorporating a medicinal substance or substances with sugar, sirup, or honey.  Note: The pharmacopoeias formerly made a distinction between conserves (made of fresh vegetable substances and sugar) and electuaries (medicinal substances combined with sirup or honey), but the distinction is now abandoned and all are called confections. 

CONFECTIONARY:  A confectioner. [Obs.] He will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks. 1 Sam. viii. 13. 

CONFECTIONARY:  Prepared as a confection. The biscuit or confectionary plum. Cowper. 

CONFECTIONER:  A highly refined sugar in impalpable powder, esp. suited to confectioners' uses. 

CONFECTORY:  Pertaining to the art of making sweetmeats. [Obs.] Beaumont. 

CONFECTURE:  Same as Confiture. [Obs.] 

CONFEDER:  To confederate. [Obs.] Sir T. North. 

CONFEDERACY:  A combination of two or more persons to commit an unlawful act, or to do a lawful act by unlawful means. See Conspiracy.  Syn.  -- League; compact; alliance; association; union; combination; confederation. 

CONFEDERATE:  Of or pertaining to the government of the eleven Southern States of the United States which (1860-1865) attempted to establish an independent nation styled the Confederate States of America; as, the Confederate congress; Confederate money. 

CONFEDERATE:  A name designating an adherent to the cause of the States which attempted to withdraw from the Union (1860-1865). 

CONFEDERATE:  To unite in a legue or confederacy; to ally. With these the Piercies them confederate. Daniel. 

CONFEDERATE:  To unite in a league; to join in a mutual contract or covenant; to band together. By words men . . . covenant and confederate. South. 

CONFEDERATER:  A confederate. 

CONFEDERATIVE:  Of or pertaining to a confederation. 

CONFEDERATOR:  A confederate. Grafton. 

CONFER:  To have discourse; to consult; to compare views; to deliberate. Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered. Acts xxv. 12. You shall hear us confer of this. Shak.  Syn.  -- To counsel; advise; discourse; converse. 

CONFERENCE:  A stated meeting of preachers and others, invested with authority to take cognizance of ecclesiastical matters.  6. A voluntary association of Congregational churches of a district; the district in which such churches are. Conference meeting, a meeting for conference. Specifically, a meeting conducted (usually) by laymen, for conference and prayer. [U. S.] -- Conference room, a room for conference and prayer, and for the pastor's less formal addresses. [U. S.] 

CONFERENTIAL:  Relating to conference. [R.] Clarke. 

CONFERRABLE:  Capable of being conferred. 

CONFERREE:  Same as Conferee. 

CONFERRER:  Closely united by the coalescence, or sticking together, of contiguous faces, as in the case of the cotyledons of the live-oak acorn. 

CONFERVA:  Any unbranched, slender, green plant of the fresh-water algae. The word is frequently used in a wider sense. 

CONFERVACEOUS:  Belonging to the confervae. 

CONFERVOID:  Like, or related to, the confervae. Loudon. 

CONFERVOUS:  Pertaining to confervae; consisting of, or resembling, the confervae. Yon exiguous pool's confervous scum. O. W. Holmes. 

CONFESSANT:  One who confesses to a priest. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CONFESSARY:  One who makes a confession. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

CONFESSEDLY:  By confession; without denial. [Written also confessly.] 

CONFESSER:  One who makes a confession. 

CONFESSION:  The act of disclosing sins or faults to a priest in order to obtain sacramental absolution. Auricular confession . . . or the private and special confession of sins to a priest for the purpose of obtaining his absolution. Hallam.  4. A formulary in which the articles of faith are comprised; a creed to be assented to or signed, as a preliminary to admission to membership of a church; a confession of faith.  5. (Law)  An admission by a party to whom an act is imputed, in relation to such act. A judicial confession settles the issue to which it applies; an extrajudical confession may be explained or rebutted. Wharton. Confession and avoidance (Law), a mode of pleading in which the party confesses the facts as stated by his adversary, but alleges some new matter by way of avoiding the legal effect claimed for them. Mozley & W. Confession of faith, a formulary containing the articles of faith; a creed.  -- General confession, the confession of sins made by a number of persons in common, as in public prayer.  -- Westminster Confession. See Westminster Assembly, under Assembly. 

CONFESSIONAL:  The recess, seat, or inclosed place, where a priest sits to hear confessions; often a small structure furnished with a seat for the priest and with a window or aperture so that the penitent who is outside may whisper into the priest's ear without being seen by him or heard by others. 

CONFESSIONAL:  Pertaining to a confession of faith. Confessional equality, equality before the law of persons confessing different creeds. 

CONFESSIONALISM:  An exaggerated estimate of the importance of giving full assent to any particular formula of the Christian faith. Shaff. 

CONFESSIONALIST:  A priest hearing, or sitting to hear, confession. [R.] Boucher 

CONFESSIONARY:  A confessional. [Obs.] Johnson. 

CONFESSIONARY:  Pertaining to auricular confession; as, a confessionary litany. 

CONFESSIONIST:  One professing a certain faith. Bp. Montagu. 

CONFESSORSHIP:  The act or state of suffering persecution for religious faith. Our duty to contend even to confessorship. J. H. Newman. 

CONFESTLY:  See Cofessedly. 

CONFETTI:  Bonbons; sweetmeats; confections; also, plaster or paper imitations of, or substitutes for, bonbons, often used by carnival revelers, at weddings, etc.  CONFIDANT; CONFIDANTE Con`fi*dant"; 277), n. masc., Con`fi*dante", n. fem.Etym: [F. confident, confidente, formerly also spelt confidant, confidante. See Confide, and cf. Confident.]  One to whom secrets, especially those relating to affairs of love, are confided or intrusted; a confidential or bosom friend. You love me for no other end Than to become my confidant and friend; As such I keep no secret from your sight. Dryden. 

CONFIDE:  To put faith (in); to repose confidence; to trust; -- usually followed by in; as, the prince confides in his ministers. By thy command I rise or fall, In thy protection I confide. Byron. Judge before friendships, then confide till death. Young. 

CONFIDE:  To intrust; to give in charge; to commit to one's keeping; -- followed by to. Congress may . . . confide to the Circuit jurisdiction of all offenses against the United States. Story. 

CONFIDENT:  See Confidant. South. Dryden. 

CONFIDENTIALLY:  In confidence; in reliance on secrecy. 

CONFIDENTLY:  With confidence; with strong assurance; positively. 

CONFIDENTNESS:  The quality of being confident. 

CONFIDER:  One who confides. 

CONFIDING:  That confides; trustful; unsuspicious.  -- Con*fid"ing*ly, adv.  -- Con*fid"ing*ness, n. 

CONFIGURATE:  To take form or position, as the parts of a complex structure; to agree with a pattern. Known by the name of uniformity; Where pyramids to pyramids relate And the whole fabric doth configurate. Jordan. 

CONFIGURATION:  Relative position or aspect of the planets; the face of the horoscope, according to the relative positions of the planets at any time. They [astrologers] undertook . . . to determine the course of a man's character and life from the configuration of the stars at the moment of his birth. Whewell. 

CONFIGURE:  To arrange or dispose in a certain form, figure, or shape. Bentley. 

CONFINABLE:  Capable of being confined, restricted, or limited. Not confinable to any limits. Bp. Hall. 

CONFINE:  To restrain within limits; to restrict; to limit; to bound; to shut up; to inclose; to keep close. Now let not nature's hand Keep the wild flood confined! let order die! Shak. He is to confine himself to the compass of numbers and the slavery of rhyme. Dryden. To be confined, to be in childbed.  Syn.  -- To bound; limit; restrain; imprison; immure; inclose; circumscribe; restrict. 

CONFINE:  (v. i. To have a common boundary; to border; to lie contiguous; to touch; -- followed by on or with. [Obs.] Where your g;oomy bounds Confine with heaven. Milton. Beywixt hezven and earth and skies there stands a place. Confuining on all three. Dryden. 

CONFINELESS:  Without limitation or end; boundless. Shak. 

CONFINER:  One who, or that which, limits or restrains. 

CONFINER:  One who lives on confines, or near the border of a country; a borderer; a near neighbor. [Obs.] Bacon. Happy confiners you of other lands, That shift your soil, and oft 'scape tyrants' hands. Daniel. 

CONFINITY:  Community of limits; contiguity. [R.] Bailey. 

CONFIRM:  To administer the rite of confirmation to. See Confirmation, 3. Those which are thus confirmed are thereby supposed to be fit for admission to the sacrament. Hammond.  Syn.  -- To strengthen; corroborate; substantiate; establish; fix; ratify; settle; verify; assure. 

CONFIRMABLE:  That may be confirmed. 

CONFIRMANCE:  Confirmation. [Obs.] 

CONFIRMATION:  A rite supplemental to baptism, by which a person is admitted, through the laying on of the hands of a bishop, to the full privileges of the church, as in the Roman Catholic, the Episcopal Church, etc. This ordinance is called confirmation, because they who duly receive it are confirmed or strengthened for the fulfillment of their Christian duties, by the grace therein bestowed upon them. Hook.  4. (Law)  A conveyance by which a voidable estate is made sure and not voliable, or by which a particular estate is increased; a contract, express or implied, by which a person makes that firm and binding which was before voidable. 

CONFIRMATIVE:  Tending confirm or establish. Sherwood.  -- Con*firm"a*tive*ly, adv. 

CONFIRMATOR:  One who, or that which, confirms; a confirmer. Sir T. Browne. 

CONFIRMATORY:  Serving to confirm; corroborative. A fact confirmatory of the conclusion. I. Taylor.  2. Pertaining to the rite of confirmation. Compton. 

CONFIRMEDLY:  With confirmation. 

CONFIRMEDNESS:  A fixed state. 

CONFIRMEE:  One to whom anuthing is confirmed. 

CONFIRMER:  One who, or that which, confirms, establishes, or ratifies; one who corroborates. Shak. 

CONFIRMINGLY:  In a confirming manner. 

CONFISCABLE:  Capable of being confiscated; liable to forfeiture. 

CONFISCATE:  Seized and appropriated by the government to the public use; forfeited. Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate. Shak. 

CONFISCATE:  To seize as forfeited to the public treasury; to appropriate to the public use. It was judged that he should be banished and his whole estate confiscated and seized. Bacon. 

CONFISCATION:  The act or process of taking property or condemning it to be taken, as forfeited to the public use. The confiscations following a subdued rebellion. Hallam. 

CONFISCATOR:  One who confiscates. Burke. 

CONFISCATORY:  Effecting confiscation; characterized by confiscations. "Confiscatory and exterminatory periods." Burke. 

CONFIT:  Same as Comfit. [Obs.] 

CONFITENT:  One who confesses his sins and faults. [Obs.] 

CONFITEOR:  A form of prayer in which public confession of sins is made. 

CONFITURE:  The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity; adaptation; suitableness. Sir J. Reynolds. If congeniality of tastes could have made a marriage happy, that union should have been thrice blessed. Motley. 

CONFIX:  To fix; to fasten. [Obs.]  Shak. 

CONFIXURE:  Act of fastening. [Obs.] 

CONFLAGRANT:  Burning together in a common flame. [R.] "The conflagrant mass."  Milton. 

CONFLAGRATION:  A fire extending to many objects, or over a large space; a general burning.  Till one wide conflagration swallows all. Pope. 

CONFLATE:  To blow together; to bring together; to collect;  to fuse together; to join or weld; to consolidate.  The State-General, created and conflated by the passionate effort of the whole nation. Carlyle. 

CONFLATION:  A blowing together, as of many instruments in a concert, or of many fires in a foundry. [R.]  Bacon. 

CONFLICTING:  Being in conflict or collision, or in opposition; contending; contradictory; incompatible; contrary; opposing.  Torn with sundry conflicting passions. Bp. Hurd. 

CONFLICTIVE:  Tending to conflict; conflicting.  Sir W. Hamilton. 

CONFLUXIBILITY:  The  tendency of fluids to run together. [R.] Boyle. 

CONFLUXIBLE:  Inclined to flow or run together. --Con*flux"i*ble*ness, n. 

CONFOCAL:  Having the same foci; as, confocal quadrics. 

CONFORM:  Of the same form; similar in import; conformable.  Bacon.  Care must be taken that the interpretation be every way conform to the analogy of faith. Bp.Hall. 

CONFORM:  To shape in accordance with; to make like; to bring into harmony or agreement with; -- usually with to or unto.  Demand of them wherefore they conform not themselves unto the order of the church. Hooker. 

CONFORMABLENESS:  The quality of being conformable; conformability. 

CONFORMABLY:  With conformity or in conformity; suitably; agreeably.  Conformably to the law and nature of God. Bp. Beveridge. 

CONFORMANCE:  Conformity. [R.]  Marston. 

CONFORMATE:  Having the same form. [R.] 

CONFORMATOR:  An apparatus for taking the conformation of anything, as of the head for fitting a hat, or, in craniometry, finding the largest horizontal area of the head. 

CONFORMER:  One who conforms; one who complies with established forms or doctrines. 

CONFORMIST:  One who conforms or complies; esp., one who conforms to the Church of England, or to the Established Church, as distinguished from a dissenter or nonconformist.  A cheeful conformist to your judgment. Jer.Taylor. 

CONFORTATION:  The act of strengthening. [Obs.]  Bacon. 

CONFOUNDEDLY:  Extremely; odiously; detestably. [Colloq.] "Confoundedly sick." Goldsmith. 

CONFOUNDEDNESS:  The state of being confounded.  Their witty descant of my confoundedness. Milton. 

CONFOUNDER:  One who confounds. 

CONFRACT:  Broken in pieces; severed. [Obs.] 

CONFRAGOSE:  Broken; uneven. [Obs.] "Confragose cataracts."  Evelyn. 

CONFRATERNITY:  A society or body of men united for some purpose, or in some profession; a brotherhood.  These live in one society and confraternity. Stow. 

CONFRERE:  Fellow member of a fraternity; intimate associate. 

CONFRICATION:  A rubbing together; friction. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CONFRIER:  A confrère. [Obs.]  Weever. 

CONFRONTATION:  Act of confronting.  H. Swinburne. 

CONFRONTE:  Same as Affronté. 

CONFRONTER:  One who confronts.  A confronter in authority. Speed. 

CONFRONTING:  dealing with (a person or problem) directly; taking the bull by the horns. Syn. -- braving, coping with, grappling, tackling. [WordNet 1.5 +PJC] 

CONFRONTMENT:  The act of confronting; the state of being face to face. 

CONFRONTMENT:  The act of confronting; the state of being face to face. 

CONFUCIAN:  Of, or relating to, Confucius, the great Chinese philosopher and teacher. -- n.  A Confucianist. 

CONFUCIANISM:  The political morality taught by Confucius and his disciples, which forms the basis of the Chinese jurisprudence and education. It can hardly be called a religion, as it does not inculcate the worship of any god.  S. W. Williams. 

CONFUCIANIST:  A follower of Confucius; a Confucian.  S. W. Williams. 

CONFUS:  Confused, disturbed. [Obs.]  Chaucer. 

CONFUSABILITY:  Capability of being confused. 

CONFUSABLE:  Capable of being confused. 

CONFUSE:  Mixed; confounded. [Obs.] Baret. 

CONFUSEDLY:  In a confused manner. 

CONFUSEDNESS:  A state of confusion.  Norris. 

CONFUSELY:  Confusedly; obscurely. [Obs.] 

CONFUSIVE:  Confusing; having a tendency to confusion.  Bp. Hall. 

CONFUTABLE:  That may be confuted.  A conceit . . . confutable by daily experience. Sir T.Browne. 

CONFUTANT:  One who undertakes to confute.  Milton. 

CONFUTATION:  The act or process of confuting; refutation.  "For the edification of some and the confutation of others."  Bp. Horne. 

CONFUTATIVE:  Adapted or designed to confute.  Bp. Warburton 

CONFUTE:  To overwhelm by argument; to refute conclusively; to prove or show to be false or defective; to overcome; to silence.  Satan stood . . . confuted and convinced Of his weak arguing fallacious drift. Milton.  No man's error can be confuted who doth not . . . grant some true principle that contradicts his error. Chillingworth.  I confute a good profession with a bad conversation. Fuller.  Syn. -- To disprove; overthrow; sed aside; refute; oppugn. -- To Confute, Refute. Refute is literally to and decisive evidence; as, to refute a calumny, charge, etc. Confute is literally to check boiling, as when cold water is poured into hot, thus serving to allay, bring down, or neutralize completely. Hence, as applied to arguments (and the word is never applied, like refute, to charges), it denotes, to overwhelm by evidence which puts an end to the case and leaves an opponent nothing to say; to silence; as, "the atheist is confuted by the whole structure of things around him." 

CONFUTEMENT:  Confutation. [Obs.]  Milton. 

CONFUTER:  One who confutes or disproves. 

CONG:  An abbreviation of Congius. 

CONGE:  To take leave with the customary civilities; to bow or courtesy.  I have congeed with the duke, done my adieu with his  nearest. Shak. 

CONGEABLE:  Permissible; done lawfully; as, entry congeable. 

CONGEAL:  To grow hard, stiff, or thick, from cold or other causes; to become solid; to freeze; to cease to flow; to run cold; to be chilled.  Lest zeal, now melted . . . Cool and congeal again to what it was. Shak. 

CONGEALABLE:  Capable of being congealed. --Con*geal"a*ble*ness, n. 

CONGEALEDNESS:  The state of being congealed.  Dr. H.More. 

CONGEE:  See Congé, Conge. [Obs.]  And unto her his congee came to take. Spenser. 

CONGEE:  Boiled rice; rice gruel. [India]  2.  A jail; a lockup. [India]  Congee discharges, rice water discharges. Dunglison. -- Congee water, water in which rice has been boiled. 

CONGENER:  A thing of the same genus, species, or kind; a thing allied in nature, character, or action.  The cherry tree has been often grafted on the laurel, to which it is a congener. P. Miller.  Our elk is more polygamous in his habits than any other deer except his congener, the red deer of Europe. Caton. 

CONGENERACY:  Similarity of origin; affinity. [Obs.]  Dr. H. More.  CONGENERIC; CONGENERICAL Con`ge*ner"ic, Con`ge*ner"ic*al, a.  Belonging to the same genus; allied in origin, nature, or action.  R. Owen. 

CONGENEROUS:  Allied in origin or cause; congeneric; as, congenerous diseases. [Obs.]  Sir T. Browne.  -- Con*gen"er*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] Hallywell. 

CONGENIALITY:  The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity; adaptation; suitableness.  Sir J. Reynolds.  If congeniality of tastes could have made a marriage happy, that union should have been thrice blessed. Motley. 

CONGENIALIZE:  To make congenial. [R.] 

CONGENIALLY:  In a congenial manner; as, congenially married or employed. 

CONGENIALNESS:  Congeniality. 

CONGENIOUS:  Congeneric. [Obs.] 

CONGENITAL:  Existing at, or dating from, birth; pertaining to one from birth; born with one; connate; constitutinal; natural; as, a congenital deformity. See Connate. 

CONGENITALLY:  In a congenital manner. 

CONGENITE:  Congenital; connate; inborn. See Congenital. [Obs.] Many conclusions, of moral and intellectual truths, seem . . . to be congenite with us. Sir M. Hale. 

CONGER:  The conger eel; -- called also congeree. Conger sea (Zoöl.), the sea eel; a large species of eel (Conger vulgaris), which sometimes grows to the length of ten feet. 

CONGERIES:  A collection of particles or bodies into one mass; a heap; an aggregation. 

CONGEST:  To cause an overfullness of the blood vessels (esp. the capillaries) of an organ or part. 

CONGESTED:  Crowded together. Gray.  2. (Med.)  Containing an unnatural accumulation of blood; hyperæmic; -- said of any part of the body. 

CONGESTION:  Overfullness of the capillary and other blood vessels, etc., in any locality or organ (often producing other morbid symptoms); local hyperas, arterial congestion; venous congestion; congestion of the lungs. 

CONGESTIVE:  Pertaining to, indicating, or attended with, congestion in some part of the body; as, a congestive fever. 

CONGIARY:  A present, as of corn, wine, or oil, made by a Roman emperor to the soldiers or the people; -- so called because measured to each in a congius. Addison.  Note: In later years, when gifts of money were distributed, the name congius was retained. 

CONGIUS:  A liquid measure containing about three quarts.  2. (Med.)  A gallon, or four quarts. [Often abbreviated to cong.] 

CONGLACIATE:  To turn to ice; to freeze. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CONGLACIATION:  The act or process of changing into ice, or the state of being converted to ice; a freezing; congelation; also, a frost. Bacon. 

CONGLOBATE:  Collected into, or forming, a rounded mass or ball; as, the conglobate [lymphatic] glands; conglobate flowers. 

CONGLOBATE:  To collect or form into a ball or rounded mass; to gather or mass together. Conglobated bubbles undissolved. Wordsworth. 

CONGLOBE:  To gather into a ball; to collect into a round mass. Then founded, then conglobed Like things to like. Milton. 

CONGLOBE:  To collect, unite, or coalesce in a round mass. Milton. 

CONGLOBULATE:  To gather into a small round mass. 

CONGLOMERATE:  Closely crowded together; densly clustered; as, conglomerate flowers. Gray.  3. (Geol.)  Composed of stones, pebbles, or fragments of rocks, cemented together. 

CONGLOMERATE:  A rock, composed or rounded fragments of stone cemented together by another mineral substance, either calcareous, siliceous, or argillaceous; pudding stone; -- opposed to agglomerate. See Breccia. A conglomerate, therefore, is simply gravel bound together by a cement. Lyell. 

CONGLOMERATE:  To gather into a ball or round body; to collect into a mass. 

CONGLOMERATION:  The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of being thus collected; collection; accumulation; that which is conglomerated; a mixed mass. Bacon. 

CONGLUTIN:  A variety of vegetable casein, resembling legumin, and found in almonds, rye, wheat, etc. 

CONGLUTINANT:  Cementing together; uniting closely; causing to adhere; promoting healing, as of a wound or a broken bone, by adhesion of the parts. 

CONGLUTINATE:  Glued together; united, as by some adhesive substance. 

CONGLUTINATE:  To glue together; to unite by some glutinous or tenacious substance; to cause to adhere or to grow together. Bones . . . have had their broken parts conglutinated within three or four days. Boyle. 

CONGLUTINATE:  To unite by the intervention of some glutinous substance; to coalesce. 

CONGLUTINATION:  A gluing together; a joining by means of some tenacious substance; junction; union. Conglutination of parts separated by a wound. Arbuthnot. 

CONGLUTINATIVE:  Conglutinant.  CONGO; CONGOU Con"go, Con"gou, n. Etym: [Chin. kung-foo labor.]  Black tea, of higher grade (finer leaf and less dusty) than the present bohea. See Tea. Of black teas, the great mass is called Congou, or the "well worked", a name which took the place of the Bohea of 150 years ago, and is now itself giving way to the term "English breakfast tea." S. W. Williams.  CONGO GROUP Con"go group. [From Congo red.]  A group of artificial dyes with an affinity for vegetable fibers, so that no mordant is required. Most of them are azo compounds derived from benzidine or tolidine. Called also benzidine dyes.  CONGO RED Congo red. (Chem.)  An artificial red dye from which the Congo group received its name. It is also widely used either in aqueous solution or as test paper (Congo paper) for the detection of free acid, which turns it blue.  CONGO SNAKE Con"go snake". (Zoöl.)  An amphibian (Amphiuma means) of the order Urodela, found in the southern United States. See Amphiuma. 

CONGRATULANT:  Rejoicing together; congratulatory. With like joy Congratulant approached him. Milton. 

CONGRATULATE:  To address with expressions of sympathetic pleasure on account of some happy event affecting the person addressed; to wish joy to. It is the king's most sweet pleasure and affection to congratulate the princess at her pavilion. Shak. To congratulate one's self, to rejoice; to feel satisfaction; to consider one's self happy or fortunate.  Syn.  -- To Congratulate, Felicitate. To felicitate is simply to wish a person joy. To congratulate has the additional signification of uniting in the joy of him whom we congratulate. Hence they are by no means synonymous. One who has lost the object of his affections by her marriage to a rival, might perhaps felicitate that rival on his success, but could never be expected to congratulate him on such an event. Felicitations are little better than compliments; congratulations are the expression of a genuine sympathy and joy. Trench. 

CONGRATULATE:  To express of feel sympathetic joy; as, to congratulate with one's country. [R.] Swift. The subjects of England may congratulate to themselves. Dryden. 

CONGRATULATION:  The act of congratulating; an expression of sympathetic pleasure. With infinite congratulations for our safe arrival. Dr. J. Scott. 

CONGRATULATOR:  One who offers congratulation. Milton. 

CONGRATULATORY:  Expressive of sympathetic joy; as, a congratulatory letter. 

CONGREE:  To agree. [bs.] Shak. 

CONGREET:  To salute mutually. [Obs.] 

CONGREGATE:  Collected; compact; close. [R.] Bacon. 

CONGREGATE:  To collect into an assembly or assemblage; to assemble; to bring into one place, or into a united body; to gather together; to mass; to compact. Any multitude of Christian men congregated may be termed by the name of a church. Hooker. Cold congregates all bodies. Coleridge. The great receptacle Of congregated waters he called Seas. Milton. 

CONGREGATE:  To come together; to assemble; to meet. Even there where merchants most do congregate. Shak. 

CONGREGATION:  The whole body of the Jewish people; -- called also Congregation of the Lord. It is a sin offering for the congregation. Lev. iv. 21.  5. (R. C. Ch.) (a) A body of cardinals or other ecclesiastics to whom as intrusted some departament of the church business; as, the Congregation of the Propaganda, which has charge of the missions of the Roman Catholic Church. (b) A company of religious persons forming a subdivision of a monastic order.  6. The assemblage of Masters and Doctors at Oxford or Cambrige University, mainly for the granting of degrees. [Eng.]  7. (Scotch Church Hist.)  the name assumed by the Protestant party under John Knox. The leaders called themselves (1557) Lords of the Congregation. 

CONGREGATIONALIST:  One who belongs to a Congregational church or society; one who holds to Congregationalism. 

CONGRESSION:  A coming or bringing together, as in a public meeting, in a dispute, in the act of comparing, or in sexual intercourse. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

CONGRESSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress of the United States; as, congressional debates. Congressional and official labor. E. Everett. Congressional District, one of the divisions into which a State is periodically divided (according to population), each of which is entitled to elect a Representative to the Congress of the United States. 

CONGRESSIVE:  Encountering, or coming together. Sir T. Browne. 

CONGRESSMAN:  A member of the Congress of the United States, esp. of the House of Representatives.  CONGREVE ROCKET Con"greve rock"et.  See under Rocket. 

CONGRUE:  To agree; to be suitable. [Obs.] Shak. 

CONGRUENCE:  Suitableness of one thing to another; agreement; consistency. Holland. 

CONGRUENCY:  Congruence. Congruency of lines. (Geom.) See Complex of lines, under Complex, n. 

CONGRUENT:  Possessing congruity; suitable; agreeing; corresponding. The congruent and harmonious fitting of parts in a sentence. B. Jonson. Congruent figures (Geom.), concurring figures. 

CONGRUISM:  See Congruity. 

CONGRUITY:  Coincidence, as that of lines or figures laid over one another.  3. (Scholastic Theol.)  That, in an imperfectly good persons, which renders it suitable for God to bestow on him gifts of grace. 

CONGRUOUS:  Suitable or concordant; accordant; fit; harmonious; correspondent; consistent. Not congruous to the nature of epic poetry. Blair. It is no ways congruous that God should be always frightening men into an acknowledgment of the truth. Atterbury. 

CONGRUOUSLY:  In a congruous manner. 

CONHYDRINE:  A vegetable alkaloid found with conine in the poison hemlock (Conium maculatum). It is a white crystalline substance, C8H17NO, easily convertible into conine. 

CONIA:  Same as Conine.  CONIC; CONICAL Con"ic, Con"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. conique. See Cone.]  1. Having the form of, or resembling, a geometrical cone; round and tapering to a point, or gradually lessening in circumference; as, a conic or conical figure; a conical vessel.  2. Of or pertaining to a cone; as, conic sections. Conic section (Geom.), a curved line formed by the intersection of the surface of a right cone and a plane. The conic sections are the parabola, ellipse, and hyperbola. The right lines and the circle which result from certain positions of the plane are sometimes, though not generally included.  -- Conic sections, that branch of geometry which treats of the parabola, ellipse, and hyperbola.  -- Conical pendulum. See Pendulum.  -- Conical projection, a method of delineating the surface of a sphere upon a plane surface as if projected upon the surface of a cone; -- much used by makers of maps in Europe.  -- Conical surface (Geom.), a surface described by a right line moving along any curve and always passing through a fixed point that is not in the plane of that curve. 

CONIC:  A conic section. 

CONICALITY:  Conicalness. 

CONICALLY:  In the form of a cone. 

CONICALNESS:  State or quality of being conical.  CONICO- Con"i*co- (, a. Etym: [See Conic.]  A combining form, meaning somewhat resembling a cone; as, conico-cylindrical, resembling a cone and a cylinder; conico- hemispherical; conico-subulate. 

CONICOID:  Same as Conoidal. 

CONIDIUM:  A peculiar kind of reproductive cell found in certain fungi, and often containing zoöspores. 

CONIFER:  A tree or shrub bearing cones; one of the order Coniferae, which includes the pine, cypress, and (according to some) the yew. 

CONIFERIN:  A glucoside extracted from the cambium layer of coniferous trees as a white crystalline substance. 

CONIFORM:  Cone-shaped; conical. 

CONIINE:  See Conine. 

CONIMENE:  Same as Olibene. 

CONINE:  A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the hemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N, of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste. It is regarded as a derivative of piperidine and likewise of one of the collidines. It occasions a gradual paralysis of the motor nerves. Called also coniine, coneine, conia, etc. See Conium, 2. 

CONIROSTER:  One of the Conirostres. 

CONIROSTRAL:  Belonging to the Conirostres. 

CONIROSTRES:  A tribe of perching birds, including those which have a strong conical bill, as the finches. 

CONISOR:  See Cognizor. 

CONISTRA:  Originally, a part of the palestra, or gymnasium among the Greeks; either the place where sand was stored for use in sprinkling the wrestlers, or the wrestling ground itself. Hence, a part of the orchestra of the Greek theater. 

CONITE:  A magnesian variety of dolomite. 

CONIUM:  A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferous plants, bearing ribbed fruit ("seeds") and decompound leaves.  2. (Med.)  The common hemlock (Conium maculatum, poison hemlock, spotted hemlock, poison parsley), a roadside weed of Europe, Asia, and America, cultivated in the United States for medicinal purpose. It is an active poison. The leaves and fruit are used in medicine. 

CONJECT:  To throw together, or to throw. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu. 

CONJECT:  To conjecture; also, to plan. [Obs.] 

CONJECTOR:  One who guesses or conjectures. [Obs.] A great conjector at other men by their writings. Milton. 

CONJECTURABLE:  Capable of being conjectured or guessed. 

CONJECTURAL:  Dependent on conjecture; fancied; imagined; guessed at; undetermined; doubtful. And mak'st conjectural fears to come into me. Shak. A slight expense of conjectural analogy. Hugh Miller. Who or what such editor may be, must remain conjectural. Carlyle. 

CONJECTURALIST:  A conjecturer. [R.] Month. rev. 

CONJECTURALLY:  That which depends upon guess; guesswork. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

CONJECTURALLY:  In a conjectural manner; by way of conjecture. Boyle. 

CONJECTURE:  An opinion, or judgment, formed on defective or presumptive evidence; probable inference; surmise; guess; suspicion. He [Herodotus] would thus have corrected his first loose conjecture by a real study of nature. Whewell. Conjectures, fancies, built on nothing firm. Milton. 

CONJECTURE:  To arrive at by conjecture; to infer on slight evidence; to surmise; to guess; to form, at random, opinions concerning. Human reason can then, at the best, but conjecture what will be. South. 

CONJECTURE:  To make conjectures; to surmise; to guess; to infer; to form an opinion; to imagine. 

CONJECTURER:  One who conjectures. Hobbes. 

CONJOIN:  To join together; to unite. The English army, that divided was Into two parties, is now conjoined in one. Shak. If either of you know any inward impediment why you should not be conjoined. Shak. Let that which he learns next be nearly conjoined with what he knows already. Locke. 

CONJOIN:  To unite; to join; to league. Shak. 

CONJOINED:  Joined together or touching. 

CONJOINT:  United; connected; associated. "Influence conjoint." Glover. Conjoint degrees (Mus.), two notes which follow each other immediately in the order of the scale, as ut and re. Johnson. Conjoint tetrachords (Mus.), two tetrachords or fourths, where the same note is the highest of one and the lowest of the other; -- also written conjunct. 

CONJOINTLY:  In a conjoint manner; untitedly; jointly; together. Sir T. Browne. 

CONJOINTNESS:  The qquality of being conjoint. 

CONJUBILANT:  Shouting together for joy; rejoicing together. [R.] Neale. 

CONJUGAL:  Belonging to marriage; suitable or appropriate to the marriage state or to married persons; matrimonial; connubial. "Conjugal affection." Milton. 

CONJUGALITY:  The conjugal state; sexual intercourse. [R.] Milton. 

CONJUGALLY:  In a conjugal manner; matrimonially; connubially. 

CONJUGATE:  In single pairs; coupled.  3. (Chem.)  Containing two or more radicals supposed to act the part of a single one. [R.]  4. (Gram.)  Agreeing in derivation and radical signification; -- said of words.  5. (Math.)  Presenting themselves simultaneously and having reciprocal properties; -- frequently used in pure and applied mathematics with reference to two quantities, points, lines, axes, curves, etc. Conjugate axis of a hyperbola (Math.), the line through the center of the curve, perpendicular to the line through the two foci.  -- Conjugate diameters (Conic Sections), two diameters of an ellipse or hyperbola such that each bisects all chords drawn parallel to the other.  -- Conjugate focus (Opt.) See under Focus.  -- Conjugate mirrors (Optics), two mirrors so placed that rays from the focus of one are received at the focus of the other, especially two concave mirrors so placed that rays proceeding from the principal focus of one and reflected in a parallel beam are received upon the other and brought to the principal focus.  -- Conjugate point (Geom.), an acnode. See Acnode, and Double point.  -- Self-conjugate triangle (Conic Sections), a triangle each of whose vertices is the pole of the opposite side with reference to a conic. 

CONJUGATE:  A complex radical supposed to act the part of a single radical. [R.] 

CONJUGATE:  To inflect (a verb), or give in order the forms which it assumed in its several voices, moods, tenses, numbers, and persons. 

CONJUGATE:  To unite in a kind of sexual union, as two or more cells or individuals among the more simple plants and animals. 

CONJUGATION:  A kind of sexual union; -- applied to a blending of the contents of two or more cells or individuals in some plants and lower animals, by which new spores or germs are developed. 

CONJUGATIONAL:  relating to conjugation. Ellis. 

CONJUGIAL:  Conjugal. [R.] Swedenborg. 

CONJUGIUM:  The marriage tie. 

CONJUNCT:  Same as Conjoined. 

CONJUNCTION:  The meeting of two or more stars or planets in the same degree of the zodiac; as, the conjunction of the moon with the sun, or of Jupiter and Saturn. See the Note under Aspect, n., 6.  Note: Heavenly bodies are said to be in conjunction when they are seen in the same part of the heavens, or have the same longitude or right ascension. The inferior conjunction of an inferior planet is its position when in conjunction on the same side of the sun with the earth; the superior conjunction of a planet is its position when on the side of the sun most distant from the earth.  3. (Gram.)  A connective or connecting word; an indeclinable word which serves to join together sentences, clauses of a sentence, or words; as, and, but, if. Though all conjunctions conjoin sentences, yet, with respect to the sense, some are conjunctive and some disjunctive. Harris. 

CONJUNCTIONAL:  Relating to a conjunction. 

CONJUNCTIVA:  The mucous membrane which covers the external surface of the ball of the eye and the inner surface of the lids; the conjunctival membrance. 

CONJUNCTIVAL:  Of or pertaining to the conjunctiva. 

CONJUNCTIVELY:  In conjunction or union; together. Sir T. Browne. 

CONJUNCTIVENESS:  The state or quality of being conjunctive. Johnson. 

CONJUNCTIVITIS:  Inflammation of the conjunctiva. 

CONJUNCTLY:  In union; conjointly; unitedly; together. Sir W. Hamilton. 

CONJURATOR:  One who swears or is sworn with others; one bound by oath with others; a compurgator. Burrill. 

CONJURE:  To call on or summon by a sacred name or in solemn manner; to implore earnestly; to adjure. I conjure you, let him know, Whate'er was done against him, Cato did it. Addison. 

CONJURE:  To combine together by an eath; to conspire; to confederate. [A Latinism] Drew after him the third part of Heaven's sons Conjured against the Highest. Milton. 

CONJURE:  To affect or effect by conjuration; to call forth or send away by magic arts; to excite or alter, as if by magic or by the aid of supernatural powers. The habitation which your prophet . . . conjured the devil into. Shak. To conjure up, or make visible, as a spirit, by magic arts; hence, to invent; as, to conjure up a story; to conjure up alarms. 

CONJURE:  To practice magical arts; to use the tricks of a conjurer; to juggle; to charm. She conjures; away with her. Shak. 

CONJUREMENT:  Serious injunction; solemn demand or entreaty. [Obs.] Milton. 

CONJURER:  One who conjures; one who calls, entreats, or charges in a solemn manner. 

CONJUROR:  One bound by a common cath with others. [Obs.] 

CONJURY:  The practice of magic; enchantment. Motley. 

CONN:  See Con, to direct a ship.  CONNASCENCE; CONNASCENCY Con*nas"cence, Con*nas"cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. con- + nascentia birth, fr. nascens, p.pr. of nasci to be born.]  1. The common birth of two or more at the same tome; production of two or more together. Johnson.  2. That which is born or produced with another.  3. The act of growing together. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

CONNASCENT:  Born together; produced at the same time. Craig. 

CONNATE:  Congenitally united; growing from one base, or united at their bases; united into one body; as, connate leaves or athers. See Illust. of Connate-perfoliate.  CONNATE-PERFOLIATE Con"nate-per*fo"li*ate, a. (Bot.)  Connate or coalescent at the base so as to produce a broad foliaceous body through the center of which the stem passes; -- applied to leaves, as the leaves of the boneset. 

CONNATION:  Connection by birth; natural union. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

CONNATURALITY:  Participation of the same nature; natural union or connection. [R.] A congruity and connaturality between them. Sir M. Hale. 

CONNATURALIZE:  To bring to the same nature as something else; to adapt. [Obs.] Dr. J. Scott. 

CONNATURALLY:  By the act of nature; originally; from birth. Sir M. Hale. 

CONNATURALNESS:  Participation of the same nature; natural union. I. Walton. 

CONNATURE:  Participation in a common nature or character. [R.] Connature was defined as likeness in kind between either two changes in consciousness, or two states of consciousness. H. Spencer. 

CONNECT:  To join, unite, or cohere; to have a close relation; as, one line of railroad connects with another; one argument connect with another. 

CONNECTEDLY:  In a connected manner. 

CONNECTIVE:  Connecting, or adapted to connect; involving connection. Connection tissue (Anat.) See Conjunctive tissue, under Conjunctive. 

CONNECTIVE:  That which connects. Specifically: (a) (Gram.) A word that connect words or sentences; a conjunction or preposition. (b) (Bot.) That part of an anther which connects its thecæ, lobes, or cells. 

CONNECTIVELY:  In connjunction; jointly. 

CONNECTOR:  One who, or that which, connects; as: (a) A flexible tube for connecting the ends of glass tubes in pneumatic experiments. (b) A device for holding two parts of an electrical conductor in contact. 

CONNER:  A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops); also, the related American cunner. See Cunner. 

CONNEX:  To connect. Sir M. Hale. 

CONNEXION:  Connection. See Connection. 

CONNEXIVE:  See Connective.  CONNING TOWER Con"ning tow"er, n.  The shotproof pilot house of a war vessel. 

CONNIVANCE:  Corrupt or guilty assent to wrongdoing, not involving actual participation in, but knowledge of, and failure to prevent or oppose it.  Syn.  -- See Collusion. 

CONNIVE:  To shut the eyes to; to overlook; to pretend not to see. [R. & Obs.] "Divorces were not connived only, but with eye open allowed." Milton. 

CONNIVENCY:  Connivance. [Obs.] 

CONNIVENT:  Brought close together; arched inward so that the points meet; converging; in close contact; as, the connivent petals of a flower, wings of an insect, or folds of membrane in the human system, etc. 

CONNIVER:  One who connives. 

CONNOISSEUR:  One well versed in any subject; a skillful or knowing person; a critical judge of any art, particulary of one of the fine arts. The connoisseur is "one who knows," as opposed to the dilettant, who only "thinks he knows." Fairholt. 

CONNOISSEURSHIP:  State of being a connoisseur. 

CONNOTATE:  To connote; to suggest or designate (something) as additional; to include; to imply. Hammond. 

CONNOTATION:  The act of connoting; a making known or designating something additional; implication of something more than is asserted. 

CONNOTATIVE:  Implying an attribute. See Connote. Connotative term, one which denotes a subject and implies an attribute. J. S. Mill. 

CONNOTATIVELY:  In a connotative manner; expressing connotation. 

CONNOTE:  To imply as an attribute. The word "white" denotes all white things, as snow, paper, the foam of the sea, etc., and ipmlies, or as it was termed by the schoolmen, connotes, the attribute "whiteness." J. S. Mill. 

CONNUBIAL:  Of or pertaining to marriage, or the marriage state; conjugal; nuptial. Nor Eve the rites Mysterious of connubial love refused. Milton. Kind, connubial tenderness. Goldsmith. 

CONNUBIALITY:  The quality of being connubial; something characteristics of the conjugal state; an expression of connubial tenderness. Some connubialities which had begun to pass between Mr. and Mrs. B. Dickens. 

CONNUMERATION:  A reckoning together. [R.] Porson. 

CONNUSANCE:  See Cognizance. [Obs.] 

CONNUSANT:  See Cognizant. [Obs.] 

CONNUSOR:  See Cognizor. [Obs.] 

CONNUTRITIOUS:  Nutritious by force of habit; -- said of certain kinds of food. [Obs.] Crabb. 

CONNY:  Brave; fine; canny. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

CONODONT:  A peculiar toothlike fossil of many forms, found especially in carboniferous rocks. Such fossils are supposed by some to be the teeth of marsipobranch fishes, but they are probably the jaws of annelids. 

CONOID:  , Resembling a cone; conoidal. 

CONOIDAL:  Nearly, but not exactly, conical. Lindley.  CONOIDIC; CONOIDICAL Co*noid"ic, Co*noid"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to a conoid; having the form of a conoid. 

CONOMINEE:  One nominated in conjunction with another; a joint nominee. Kirby. 

CONQUADRATE:  To bring into a square. [R.] Ash. 

CONQUASSATE:  To shake; to agitate. [Obs.] Harvey.  -- Con`quas*sa"tion, n. [Obs.] 

CONQUER:  To gain the victory; to overcome; to prevail. He went forth conquering and to conquer. Rev. vi. 2. The champions resolved to conquer or to die. Waller. 

CONQUERABLE:  Capable of being conquered or subdued. South.  -- Con"quer*a*ble*ness, n. 

CONQUERESS:  A woman who conquers. Fairfax. 

CONQUEROR:  One who conquers. The Conqueror (Eng. Hist.). William the Norman (1027-1067) who invaded England, defeated Harold in the battle of Hastings, and was crowned king, in 1066. 

CONQUEST:  The acquiring of property by other means than by inheritance; acquisition. Blackstone.  4. The act of gaining or regaining by successful strugle; as, the conquest of liberty or peace. The Conquest (Eng. Hist.), the subjugation of England by William of Normandy in 1066.  Syn.  -- Victory; triumph; mastery; reduction; subjugation; subjection. 

CONQUIAN:  A game for two, played with 40 cards, in which each player tries to form three or four of a kind or sequences. 

CONSANGUINEAL:  Of the same blood; related by birth. Sir T. Browne. 

CONSANGUINED:  Of kin blood; related. [R.] Johnson. 

CONSANGUINEOUS:  Of the same blood; related by birth; descended from the same parent or ancestor. Shak. 

CONSANGUINITY:  The relation of person by blood, is distinction from affinity or relation by marriage; blood relationship; as, lineal consanguinity; collateral consanguinity. Invoking aid by the ties of consanguinity. Prescott. 

CONSARCINATION:  A patching together; patchwork. [Obs.] Bailey. 

CONSCIENCED:  Having a conscience. [R.] "Soft-conscienced men." Shak. 

CONSCIENCELESS:  Without conscience; indifferent to conscience; unscrupulous. Conscienceless and wicked patrons. Hookre. 

CONSCIENT:  Conscious. [R.] Bacon. 

CONSCIENTIOUSLY:  In a conscientious manner; as a matter of conscience; hence; faithfully; accurately; completely. 

CONSCIENTIOUSNESS:  The quality of being conscientious; a scrupulous regard to the dictates of conscience. 

CONSCIONABLE:  Governed by, or according to, conscience; reasonable; just. Let my debtors have conscionable satisfaction. Sir H. Wotton. 

CONSCIONABLENESS:  The quality of being conscionable; reasonableness. Johnson. 

CONSCIONABLY:  Reasonably; justly. 

CONSCIOUSLY:  In a conscious manner; with knowledge of one's own mental operations or actions. 

CONSCRIBE:  To enroll; to enlist. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

CONSCRIPT:  Enrolled; written; registered. Conscript fathers (Rom. Antiq.), the senators of ancient Rome. When certain new senators were first enrolled with the "fathers" the body was called Patres et Conscripti; afterward all were called Patres conscripti. 

CONSCRIPT:  One taken by lot, or compulsorily enrolled, to serve as a soldier or sailor. 

CONSCRIPT:  To enroll, by compulsion, for military service. 

CONSCRIPTION:  Belonging to, or of the nature of, a conspiration. 

CONSECRATE:  Consecrated; devoted; dedicated; sacred. They were assembled in that consecrate place. Bacon. 

CONSECRATER:  Consecrator. 

CONSECRATION:  The act or ceremony of consecrating; the state of being consecrated; dedication. Until the days of your consecration be at an end. Lev. viii. 33. Consecration makes not a place sacred, but only solemny declares it so. South. 

CONSECRATOR:  One who consecrates; one who performs the rites by which a person or thing is devoted or dedicated to sacred purposes. [Written also consecrater.] 

CONSECRATORY:  Of or pertaining to the act of consecration; dedicatory. The consecratory prayer. Bp. Burnet. 

CONSECTANEOUS:  Following as a matter of course. Blount. 

CONSECTARY:  Following by consequence; consequent; deducible. [R.] "Consectary impieties." Sir T. Browne. 

CONSECTARY:  That which follows by consequence or is logically deducible; deduction from premises; corollary. [R.] Milton. 

CONSECUTE:  To follow closely; to endeavor to overtake; to pursue. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 

CONSECUTIVE:  Having similarity of sequence; -- said of certain parallel progressions of two parts in a piece of harmony; as, consecutive fifths, or consecutive octaves, which are forbidden. Consecutive chords (Mus.), chords of the same kind suceeding one another without interruption. 

CONSECUTIVELY:  In a consecutive manner; by way of sequence; successively. 

CONSECUTIVENESS:  The state or quality of being consecutive. 

CONSENSION:  Agreement; accord. Bentley. 

CONSENSUAL:  Existing, or made, by the mutual consent of two or more parties.  2. (Physiol.)  Excited or caused by sensation, sympathy, or reflex action, and not by conscious volition; as, consensual motions. Consensual contract (Law), a contract formed merely by consent, as a marriage contract. 

CONSENSUS:  Agreement; accord; consent. That traditional consensus of society which we call public opinion. Tylor. 

CONSENT:  To grant; to allow; to assent to; to admit. [Obs.] Interpreters . . . will not consent it to be a true story. Milton. 

CONSENT:  Capable, deliberate, and voluntary assent or agreement to, or concurrence in, some act or purpose, implying physical and mental power and free action.  5. (Physiol.)  Sympathy. See Sympathy, 4.  Syn.  -- Assent; acquiescence; concurrence; agreement; approval; permission. See Assent. Age of consent (Law), an age, fixed by statute and varying in different jurisdictions, at which one is competent to give consent. Sexual intercourse with a female child under the age of consent is punishable as rape. 

CONSENTANEITY:  Mutual agreement. [R.] 

CONSENTANEOUS:  Consistent; agreeable; suitable; accordant to; harmonious; concurrent. A good law and consentaneous to reason. Howell. -- Con`sen*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.  -- Con`sen*ta"ne*ous*ness, n. 

CONSENTANT:  Consenting. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CONSENTER:  One who consents. 

CONSENTIENT:  Agreeing in mind; accordant. The consentient judgment of the church. Bp. Pearson. 

CONSENTINGLY:  With consent; in a compliant manner. Jer. Taylor. 

CONSEQUENCE:  A proposition collected from the agreement of other previous propositions; any conclusion which results from reason or argument; inference.  3. Chain of causes and effects; consecution. Such fatal consequence unites us three. Milton. Link follows link by necessary consequence. Coleridge.  4. Importance with respect to what comes after; power to influence or produce an effect; value; moment; rank; distinction. It is a matter of small consequence. Shak. A sense of your own worth and consequence. Cowper. In consequence, hence; for this cause.  -- In consequence of, by reason of; as the effect of.  Syn.  -- Effect; result; end. See Effect. 

CONSEQUENCING:  Drawing inference. [R.] Milton. 

CONSEQUENT:  Following by necessary inference or rational deduction; as, a proposition consequent to other propositions. Consequent points, Consequent poles (Magnetism), a number of poles distributed under certain conditions, along the axis of a magnetized steel bar, which regularly has but the two poles at the extremities. 

CONSEQUENT:  That which follows from propositions by rational deduction; that which is deduced from reasoning or argumentation; a conclusion, or inference.  3. (Math.)  The second term of a ratio, as the term b in the ratio a:b, the first a, being the antecedent. 

CONSEQUENTIALNESS:  The quality of being consequential. 

CONSEQUENTLY:  By consequence; by natural or logical sequence or connection.  Syn.  -- See Accordingly. 

CONSERTION:  Junction; adaptation [R.] Consertion of design, how exquisite. Young. 

CONSERVABLE:  Capable of being preserved from decay or injury. 

CONSERVANCY:  Conservation, as from injury, defilement, or irregular use. [An act was] passed in 1866, for vesting in the Conservators of the River Thames the conservancy of the Thames and Isis. Mozley & W. 

CONSERVANT:  Having the power or quality of conservation. 

CONSERVATION:  The act of preserving, guarding, or protecting; the keeping (of a thing) in a safe or entire state; preservation. A step necessary for the conservation of Protestantism. Hallam. A state without the means of some change is without the means of its conservation. Burke. Conservation of areas (Astron.), the principle that the radius vector drawn from a planet to the sun sweeps over equal areas in equal times.  -- Conservation of energy, or Conservation of force (Mech.), the principle that the total energy of any material system is a quantity which can neither be increased nor diminished by any action between the parts of the system, though it may be transformed into any of the forms of which energy is susceptible. Clerk Maxwell. 

CONSERVATIONAL:  Tending to conserve; preservative. 

CONSERVATISM:  The disposition and tendency to preserve what is established; opposition to change; the habit of mind; or conduct, of a conservative. 

CONSERVATIVE:  A member of the Conservative party. 

CONSERVATIVENESS:  The quality of being conservative. 

CONSERVATOIRE:  A public place of instruction in any special branch, esp. music and the arts. [See Conservatory, 3]. 

CONSERVATORY:  Having the quality of preserving from loss, decay, or injury. 

CONSERVATRIX:  A woman who preserves from loss, injury, etc. 

CONSERVE:  A medicinal confection made of freshly gathered vegetable substances mixed with finely powdered refined sugar. See Confection.  3. A conservatory. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

CONSERVER:  One who conserves. 

CONSIDERABLENESS:  Worthiness of consideration; dignity; value; size; amount. 

CONSIDERABLY:  In a manner or to a degree not trifling or unimportant; greatly; much. The breeds . . . differ considerably from each other. Darwin. 

CONSIDERANCE:  Act of considering; consideration. [Obs.] Shak. 

CONSIDERATION:  The cause which moves a contracting party to enter into an agreement; the material cause of a contract; the price of a stripulation; compensation; equivalent. Bouvier.  Note: Consideration is what is done, or promised to be done, in exchange for a promise, and "as a mere advantage to the promisor without detriment to the promisee would not avail, the proper test is detriment to the promisee." Wharton. 

CONSIDERATIVE:  Considerate; careful; thoughtful. [Archaic] I love to be considerative. B. Jonson. 

CONSIDERATOR:  One who considers. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CONSIDERER:  One who considers; a man of reflection; a thinker. Milton. 

CONSIDERINGLY:  With consideration or deliberation. 

CONSIGN:  To send or address (by bill of lading or otherwise) to an agent or correspondent in another place, to be cared for or sold, or for the use of such correspondent; as, to cosign a cargo or a ship; to set apart.  4. To assign; to devote; to set apart. The French commander consigned it to the use for which it was intended by the donor. Dryden.  5. To stamp or impress; to affect. [Obs.] Consign my spirit with great fear. Jer. Taylor.  Syn.  -- To commit; deliver; intrust; resign. See Commit. 

CONSIGNATARY:  A consignee. [Obs.] Jenkins. 

CONSIGNATORY:  One of several that jointly sign a written instrument, as a treaty. Fallows. 

CONSIGNATURE:  Joint signature. [R.] Colgrave. 

CONSIGNEE:  The person to whom goods or other things are consigned; a factor; -- correlative to consignor. Consigner and consignee are used by merchants to express generally the shipper of merchandise, and the person to whom it is addressed, by bill of lading or otherwise. De Colange. 

CONSIGNER:  One who consigns. See Consignor. 

CONSIGNIFICANT:  Having joint or equal signification; synonymous. [R.] Spelman. 

CONSIGNIFICATION:  Joint signification. [R.] 

CONSIGNIFICATIVE:  Consignificant; jointly significate. [R.] 

CONSIGNIFY:  To signify or denote in combination with something else. The cipher . . . only serves to connote and consignify, and to change the value or the figures. Horne Tooke. 

CONSIGNMENT:  The act of consigning or sending property to an agent or correspondent in another place, as for care, sale, etc.  3. (Com.)  That which is consigned; the goods or commodities sent or addressed to a consignee at one time or by one conveyance. To increase your consignments of this valuable branch of national commerce. Burke.  4. The writing by which anything is consigned. 

CONSIGNOR:  One who consigns something to another; -- opposed to consignee. [Written also consigner.] 

CONSILIENCE:  Act of concurring; coincidence; concurrence. The consilience of inductions takes place when one class of facts coincides with an induction obtained from another different class. Whewell.  CONSIMILITUDE; CONSIMILITY Con`si*mil"i*tude, Con`si*mil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. consimilitude. See Similitude.]  Common resemblance. [Obs.] Aubrey. 

CONSISTENTLY:  In a consistent manner. 

CONSISTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a consistory. "Consistorial laws." Hooker. "Consistorial courts." Bp. Hoadley. 

CONSISTORIAN:  Pertaining to a Presbyterian consistory; -- a contemptuous term of 17th century controversy. You fall next on the consistorian schismatics; for so you call Presbyterians. Milton. 

CONSISTORY:  The spiritual court of a diocesan bishop held before his chancellor or commissioner in his cathedral church or elsewhere. Hook.  3. (R. C. Ch.)  An assembly of prelates; a session of the college of cardinals at Rome. Pius was then hearing of causes in consistory. Bacon.  4. A church tribunal or governing body.  Note: In some churches, as the Dutch Reformed in America, a consistory is composed of the minister and elders of an individual church, corresponding to a Presbyterian church session, and in others, as the Reformed church in France, it is composed of ministers and elders, corresponding to a presbytery. In some Lutheran countries it is a body of clerical and lay officers appointed by the sovereign to superintend ecclesiastical affairs.  5. A civil court of justice. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CONSISTORY:  Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a consistory. "To hold consistory session." Strype. 

CONSOCIATE:  An associate; an accomplice. [Archaic] "Wicked consociates." Bp. Hall. 

CONSOCIATIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a consociation. [U.S.] 

CONSOL:  A consolidated annuity (see Consols); -- chiefly in combination or attributively. 

CONSOLABLE:  Capable of receiving consolation. 

CONSOLATE:  To console; to comfort. [Obs.] Shak. 

CONSOLATION:  The act of consoling; the state of being consoled; allevation of misery or distress of mind; refreshment of spirit; comfort; that which consoles or comforts the spirit. Against such cruelties With inward consolations recompensed. Milton. Are the consolations of God small with thee Job xv. 11.  Syn.  -- Comfort; solace; allevation. See Comfort.  CONSOLATION GAME; CONSOLATION MATCH; CONSOLATION POT; CONSOLATION

RACE:  A game, match, etc., open only to losers in early stages of contests.  CONSOLATO DEL MARE Con`so*la"to del ma"re. Etym: [It., the consulate of the sea.]  A collection of maritime laws of disputed origin, supposed to have been first published at Barcelona early in the 14th century. It has formed the basis of most of the subsequent collections of maritime laws. Kent. Bouvier. 

CONSOLATOR:  One who consoles or comforts. Johnson. 

CONSOLATORY:  Of a consoling or comforting nature. The punishment of tyrants is a noble and awful act of justice; and it has with truth been said to be consolatory to the human mind. Burke. 

CONSOLATORY:  That which consoles; a speech or writing intended for consolation. [R.] Milton. 

CONSOLE:  To cheer in distress or depression; to alleviate the grief and raise the spirits of; to relieve; to comfort; to soothe. And empty heads console with empty sound. Pope. I am much consoled by the reflection that the religion of Christ has been attacked in vain by all the wits and philosophers, and its triumph has been complete. P. Henry.  Syn.  -- To comfort; solace; soothe; cheer; sustain; encourage; support. See Comfort. 

CONSOLER:  One who gives consolation. 

CONSOLIDANT:  Serving to unite or consolidate; having the quality of consolidating or making firm. 

CONSOLIDATE:  Formed into a solid mass; made firm; consolidated. [R.] A gentleman [should learn to ride] while he is tender and the brawns and sinews of his thighs not fully consolidate. Elyot. 

CONSOLIDATE:  To unite by means of applications, as the parts of a broken bone, or the lips of a wound. [R.]  Syn.  -- To unite; combine; harden; compact; condense; compress. 

CONSOLIDATE:  To grow firm and hard; to unite and become solid; as, moist clay consolidates by drying. In hurts and ulcers of the head, dryness maketh them more apt to consolidate. Bacon. 

CONSOLIDATED:  Having a small surface in proportion to bulk, as in the cactus. Consolidated plants are evidently adapted and designed for very dry regions; in such only they are found. Gray. The Consolidated Fund, a British fund formed by consolidating (in 1787) three public funds (the Aggregate Fund, the General Fund, and the South Sea Fund). In 1816, the larger part of the revenues of Great Britian and Ireland was assigned to what has been known as the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom, out of which are paid the interest of the national debt, the salaries of the civil list, etc. 

CONSOLIDATION:  To organic cohesion of different circled in a flower; adnation.  3. (Law)  The combination of several actions into one. 

CONSOLIDATIVE:  Tending or having power to consolidate; healing. 

CONSOLING:  Adapted to console or comfort; cheering; as, this is consoling news. 

CONSOLS:  The leading British funded government security.  Note: A considerable part of the public debt of Great Britian, which had been contracted in the form of annuities yielding various rates of interest, was, in 1757, consolidated into one fund at 3 per cent interest, the account of which is kept at the Bank of England. This debt has been diminished and increased at different times, and now constitutes somewhat more than half of the entire national debt. The stocks are transferable, and Their value in the market constantly fluctuates; the price at any time being regarded as a gauge of the national prosperity and public confidence. 

CONSOMME:  A clear soup or bouillion boiled down so as to be very rich.  CONSONANCE; CONSONANCY Con"so*nance, Con"so*nan*cy, n. Etym: [L. consonantia: cf. F. consonnance.]  1. (Mus.)  Accord or agreement of sounds produced simultaneously, as a note with its third, fifth, and eighth.  2. Agreement or congruity; harmony; accord; consistency; suitableness. The perfect consonancy of our persecuted church to the doctrines of Scripture and antiquity. Hammond. The optic nerve responds to the waves with which it is in consonance. Tyndall.  3. Friendship; concord. [Obs.] By the consonancy of our youth. Shak.  Syn.  -- Agreement; accord; consistency; unison; harmony; congruity; suitableness; agreeableness. 

CONSONANT:  harmonizing together; accordant; as, consonant tones, consonant chords.  4. Of or pertaining to consonants; made up of, or containing many, consonants. No Russian whose dissonant consonant name Almost shatters to fragments the trumpet of fame. T. Moore. 

CONSONANT:  An articulate sound which in utterance is usually combined and sounded with an open sound called a vowel; a member of the spoken alphabet other than a vowel; also, a letter or character representing such a sound.  Note: Consonants are divided into various classes, as mutes, spirants, sibilants, nasals, semivowels, etc. All of them are sounds uttered through a closer position of the organs than that of a vowel proper, although the most open of them, as the semivowels and nasals, are capable of being used as if vowels, and forming syllables with other closer consonants, as in the English feeble (taken (  Note: "A consonant is the result of audible friction, squeezing, or stopping of the breath in some part of the mouth (or occasionally of the throath.) The main distinction between vowels and consonants is, that while in the former the mouth configuration merely modifies the vocalized breath, which is therefore an essential element of the vowels, in consonants the narrowing or stopping of the oral passage is the foundation of the sound, and the state of the glottis is something secondary." H. Sweet. 

CONSONANTAL:  , 

CONSONANTIZE:  To change into, or use as, a consonant. "The vowel is consonantized, that is, made closer in position." Peile. 

CONSONANTLY:  In a consonant, consistent, or congruous manner; agreeably. 

CONSONANTNESS:  The quality or condition of being consonant, agreeable, or consistent. 

CONSONOUS:  Agreeing in sound; symphonious. 

CONSOPIATION:  The act of sleeping, or of lulling, to sleep. [Obs.] Pope. 

CONSOPITE:  Lulled to sleep. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

CONSOPITE:  To lull to sleep; to quiet; to compose. [Obs.] The operation of the masculine faculties of the soul were, for a while, well slacked and consopited. Dr. H. More. 

CONSORT:  A ship keeping company with another.  3. Concurrence; conjunction; combination; association; union. "By Heaven's consort." Fuller. "Working in consort." Hare. Take it singly, and is carries an air of levity; but, in consort with the rest, has a meaning quite different. Atterbury.  4. Etym: [LL. consortium.]  An assembly or association of persons; a company; a group; a combination. [Obs.] In one consort there sat Cruel revenge and rancorious despite, Disloyal treason, and heart-burning hate. Spenser. Lord, place me in thy consort. Herbert.  5. Etym: [Perh. confused with concert.]  Harmony of sounds; concert, as of musical instruments. [Obs.] Milton. To make a sad consort`; Come, let us join our mournful song with theirs. Spenser.  Prince consort, the husband of a queen regnant.  -- Queen consort, the wife of a king, as distinguished from a queen regnant, who rules alone, and a queen dowager, the window of a king. 

CONSORT:  To unite or to keep company; to associate; -- used with with. Which of the Grecian chiefs consorts with thee Dryden. 

CONSORTABLE:  Suitable for association or companionship. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

CONSORTION:  Fellowship; association; companionship. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CONSORTSHIP:  The condition of a consort; fellowship; partnership. Hammond. 

CONSOUND:  A name applied loosely to several plants of different genera, esp. the comfrey. 

CONSPECIFIC:  Of the same species. 

CONSPECTUITY:  The faculty of seeing; sight; eye.  Note: [A word of Menenius's making. Coriolanus ii. 1] Shak. 

CONSPECTUS:  A general sketch or outline of a subject; a synopsis; an epitome. 

CONSPERSION:  The act of sprinkling. [Obs.] The conspersion washing the doorposts. Jer. Taylor. 

CONSPICUITY:  The state or quality of being clear or bright; brightness; conspicuosness. [R.] Chapman. 

CONSPIRACY:  An agreement, manifesting itself in words or deeds, by which two or more persons confederate to do an unlawful act, or to use unlawful to do an act which is lawful; confederacy.  Syn.  -- Combination; plot; cabal. 

CONSPIRANT:  Engaging in a plot to commit a crime; conspiring. [Obs.] Shak. 

CONSPIRATION:  Agreement or concurrence for some end or purpose; conspiracy. [R.] As soon as it was day, certain Jews made a conspiration. Udall. In our natural body every part has a nacassary sympathy with every other, and all together form, by their harmonious onspiration, a healthy whole. Sir W. Hamilton. 

CONSPIRATOR:  One who engages in a conspiracy; a plotter. 2 Sam. xv. 31. 

CONSPIRE:  To plot; to plan; to combine for. Angry clouds conspire your overthrow. Bp. Hall. 

CONSPIRER:  One who conspires; a conspirator. 

CONSPIRINGLY:  In the manner of a conspirator; by conspiracy. Milton. 

CONSPISSATION:  A making thick or viscous; thickness; inspissation. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

CONSPURCATE:  To pollute; to defile. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

CONSPURCATION:  This act of defiling; defilement; pollution. Bp. Hall. 

CONSTABLE:  An officer of the peace having power as a conservator of the public peace, and bound to exeute the warrants of judicial offiers. Bouvier.  Note: In England, at the present time, the constable is a conservator of the peace within his district, and is also charged by various statutes with other duties, such as serving summons, precepts, warrants, etc. In the United States, constables are town or its officers of the peace, with powers similar to those of the constables of England. In addition to their duties as conservators of the peace, they are invested with others by statute, such as to execute civil as well as criminal process in certain cases, to attend courts, keep juries, etc. In some cities, there are officers called high constables, who act as shiefs of the constabulary or police force. In other cities the title of constable, as well as the office, is merged in that of the polie officer. High constable, a constable having certain duties and powers within a hundred. [Eng.] -- Petty constable, a conservator of the peace within a parish or tithing; a tithingman. [Eng.] -- Special constable, a person appointed to act as constable of special occasions.  -- To overrun, or outrun, the constable, the spend more than one's income; to get into debt. [Colloq.] Smollett. 

CONSTABLESHIP:  The office or functions of a constable. 

CONSTABLESS:  The wife of a constable. [Obs.] 

CONSTABLEWICK:  The district to which a constable's power is limited. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

CONSTABULARY:  Of or pertaining to constables; consisting of constables. 

CONSTABULARY:  The collective body of constables in any town, district, or country. 

CONSTABULATORY:  A constabulary. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 

CONSTANT:  Remaining unchanged or invariable, as a quantity, forc, law, etc.  4. Consistent; logical. [Obs.] Shak.  Syn.  -- Fixed; steadfast; unchanging; permanent; unalterable; immutable; perpetual; continual; resolute; firm; unshaken; determined.  -- Constant, Continual, Perpetual. These words are sometimes used in an absolute and sometimes in a qualified sense. Constant denotes, in its absolute sense, unchangeably fixed; as, a constant mind or purpose. In its qualified sense, it marks something as a "standing" fact or occurence; as, liable to constant interruptions; constantly called for. Continual, in its absolute sense, coincides with continuous. See Continuous. In its qualified sense, it describes, a thing as occuring in steady and rapid succession; as, a round of continual calls; continually changing. Perpetual denotes, in its absolute sense, what literally never ceases or comes to an end; as, perpetual motion. In its qualified sense, it is used hyperbolically, and denotes that which rarely ceases; as, perpetual disturbance; perpetual noise; perpetual intermeddling. 

CONSTANT:  A quantity that does not change its value; -- used in countradistinction variable. Absolute costant (Math.), one whose value is absolutely the same under all cirumstanes, as the number 10, or any numeral.  -- Arbitrary constant, an undetermined constant in a differential equation having the same value during all changes in the values of the variables. 

CONSTANTIA:  A superior wine, white and red, from Constantia, in Cape Colony. 

CONSTANTLY:  With constancy; steadily; continually; perseveringly; without cessation; uniformly. But she constantly affirmed that it was even so. Acts. xii. 15. 

CONSTAT:  A certificate showing what appears upon record touching a matter in question. 

CONSTATE:  To ascertain; to verify; to establish; to prove. F. P. Cobbe. 

CONSTELLATE:  To join luster; to shine with united radiance, or one general light. [R.] The several things which engage our affections . . . shine forth and constellate in God. Boule. 

CONSTERNATION:  Amazement or horror that confounds the faculties, and incapacitates for refletion; terror, combined with amaxement; dismay. The chiefs around, In silence wrapped, in onsternation downed. Attend the stern reply. Pope.  Syn.  -- Alarm; fright; amazement; astonishment; surprise; panic; returbation. See Alarm. 

CONSTIPATE:  To render costive; to cause constipation in. 

CONSTITUENCY:  A body of constituents, as the body of citizens or voters in a representative district. 

CONSTITUENT:  A person who appoints another to act for him as attorney in fact. Burrill. 

CONSTITUTE:  An established law. [Obs.] T. Preston. 

CONSTITUTER:  One who constitutes or appoints. 

CONSTITUTIONAL:  A walk or other exercise taken for one's health or constitution. [Colloq.] Thackeray. The men trudged diurnal constitutionals along the different roads. Compton Reade. 

CONSTITUTIONALISM:  The theory, principles, or authority of constitutional government; attachment or adherene to a constitution or constitutional government. Carlyle. 

CONSTITUTIONALIST:  One who advocates a constitutional form of government; a constitutionalist. 

CONSTITUTIONIST:  One who adheres to the constitution of the country. Bolingbroke. 

CONSTITUTIVELY:  In a constitutive manner. 

CONSTRAINABLE:  Capable of being constrained; liable to constraint, or to restraint. Hooker. 

CONSTRAINED:  Marked by constraint; not free; not voluntary; embarrassed; as, a constrained manner; a constrained tone. 

CONSTRAINEDLY:  By constraint or compulsion; in a constrained manner. Hooker. 

CONSTRAINER:  One who constrains. 

CONSTRAINT:  The act of constraining, or the state of being constrained; that which compels to, or restrains from, action; compulsion; restraint; necessity. Long imprisonment and hard constraint. Spenser. Not by constraint, but bDryden.  Syn.  -- Compulsion; violence; necessity; urgency.  -- Constraint, Compulsion. Constraint implies strong binding force; as, the constraint of necessity; the constraint of fear. Compulsion implies the exertion of some urgent impelling force; as, driven by compulsion. The former prevents us from acting agreeably to our wishes; the latter forces us to act contrary to our will. Compulsion is always produced by some active agent; a constraint may be laid upon us by the forms of civil society, or by other outward circumstances. Crabb. 

CONSTRAINTIVE:  Constraining; compulsory. [R.] "Any constraintive vow." R. Carew. 

CONSTRICT:  To draw together; to render narrower or smaller; to bind; to cramp; to contract or ause to shrink. Such things as constrict the fibers. Arbuthnot. Membranous organs inclosing a cavity which their contraction constrict. Todd & Bowman. 

CONSTRICTED:  Contracted or compressed so as to be smaller in certain places or parts than in others. 

CONSTRICTIVE:  Serving or tending to bind or constrict. 

CONSTRICTOR:  A muscle which contracts or closes an orifice, or which compresses an organ; a sphincter.  3. (Zoöl.)  A serpent that kills its prey by inclosing and crushing it with its folds; as, the boa constrictor. 

CONSTRINGE:  To dawn together; to contract; to force to contract itself; to constrict; to cause to shrink. [R.] Strong liquors . . . intoxicate, constringe, harden the fibers, and coagulate the fluids. Arbuthnot. 

CONSTRINGENT:  Having the quality of contracting, binding, or compressing. Thomson. 

CONSTRUCT:  Formed by, or relating to, construction, interpretation, or inference. Construct form or state (Heb. Gram.), that of a noun used before another which has the genitive relation to it. 

CONSTRUCTER:  One who, or that which, constructs or frames. 

CONSTRUCTION:  The arrangement and connection of words in a sentence; syntactical arrangement. Some particles . . . in certain constructions have the sense of a whole sentence contained in them. Locke.  4. The method of construing, interpreting, or explaining a declaration or fact; an attributed sense or meaning; understanding; explanation; interpretation; sense. Any person . . . might, by the sort of construction that would be put on this act, become liable to the penalties of treason. Hallam. Strictly, the term [construction] signifies determining the meaning and proper effect of language by a consideration of the subject matter and attendant circumstances in connection with the words employed. Abbott. Interpretation properly precedes construction, but it does not go beyond the written text. Parsons. Construction of an equation (Math.), the drawing of such lines and figures as will represent geometrically the quantities in the equation, and their relations to each other.  -- Construction train (Railroad), a train for transporting men and materials for construction or repairs. 

CONSTRUCTIONAL:  Pertaining to, or deduced from, construction or interpretation. 

CONSTRUCTIONIST:  One who puts a certain construction upon some writing or instrument, as the Constitutions of the United States; as, a strict constructionist; a broad constructionist. 

CONSTRUCTIVELY:  In a constructive manner; by construction or inference. A neutral must have notice of a blockade, either actually by a formal information, or constructively by notice to his government. Kent. 

CONSTRUCTIVENESS:  The faculty which enables one to construct, as in mechanical, artistic, or literary matters. 

CONSTRUCTOR:  A constructer. 

CONSTRUCTURE:  That which is constructed or formed; an edifice; a fabric. [Obs.] 

CONSTUPRATE:  To ravish; to debauch. Burton. 

CONSTUPRATION:  The act of ravishing; violation; defilement. Bp. Hall. 

CONSUBSTANTIAL:  Of the same kind or nature; having the same substance or essence; coessential. Christ Jesus . . . coeternal and consubstantial with the Father and with the Holy Ghost. Foxe. 

CONSUBSTANTIALISM:  The doctrine of consubstantiation. 

CONSUBSTANTIALIST:  One who believes in consubstantiation. Barrow. 

CONSUBSTANTIALITY:  Participation of the same nature; coexistence in the same substance. "His [the Son's] . . . consubstantiality with the Father." Hammend. 

CONSUBSTANTIALLY:  In a consubstantial manner; with identity of substance or nature. 

CONSUBSTANTIATE:  To cause to unite, or to regard as united, in one common substance or nature. [R.] His soul must be consubstantiated with reason. Jer. Taylor. 

CONSUBSTANTIATE:  To profess or belive the doctrine of consubstantion. The consubstantiating church and priest. Dryden. 

CONSUBSTANTIATE:  Partaking of the same substance; united; consubstantial. We must love her [the wife] that is thus consubstantiate with us. Feltham. 

CONSUBSTANTIATION:  The actual, substantial presence of the body of Christ with the bread and wine of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; impanation; -- opposed to transubstantiation.  Note: This view, held by Luther himself, was called consubstantiation by non Lutheran writers in contradistinction to transsubstantiation, the Catholic view. 

CONSUETUDE:  Custom, habit; usage. [R.] To observe this consuetude or law. Barnes . 

CONSUETUDINAL:  According to custom; customary; usual. [R.] 

CONSUETUDINARY:  Customary. 

CONSUETUDINARY:  A manual or ritual of customary devotional exercises. 

CONSUL:  One of the two chief magistrates of the republic.  Note: They were chosen annually, originally from the patricians only, but later from the plebeians also.  2. A senator; a counselor. [Obs.] Many of the consuls, raised and met, Are at the duke's already. Shak. With kings and consuls of the earth. Job. iii. 14 (Douay Ver. )  3. (Fr. Hist.)  One of the three chief magistrates of France from 1799 to 1804, who were called, respectively, first, second, and third consul.  4. An official comissioned to reside in some foreign country, to care for the commercial interests of the citizens of the appointing government, and to protect its seamen. Consul general, a consul of the first rank, stationed in an important place, or having jurisdiction in several places or over several consula.  -- Vice consul, a consular officer holding the place of a consul during the consul's absence or after he has been relieved. 

CONSULAGE:  A duty or tax paid by merchants for the protection of their connerce by means of a consul in a foreign place. 

CONSULAR:  Of or pertaining to a consul; performing the duties of a consul; as, consular power; consular dignity; consular officers. 

CONSULARY:  Consular. [Obs.] Holland. 

CONSULT:  To seek the opinion or advice of another; to take consel; to deliberate together; to confer. Let us consult upon to-morrow's business. Shak. All the laws of England have been made by the kings England, consulting with the nobility and commons. Hobbes. 

CONSULTARY:  Formed by consultation; resulting from conference. Consultary response (Law), the opinion of a court on a special case. Wharton. 

CONSULTATIVE:  Pertaining to consultation; having the privilege or right of conference. "A consultative . . . power." Abp. Bramhall. 

CONSULTATORY:  Formed by, or resulting from, consultation; advisory. Bancroft. 

CONSULTER:  One who consults, or asks counsel or information. 

CONSULTING:  That consults. Consulting physician (Med.), a physician who consults with the attending practitioner regarding any case of disease. 

CONSULTIVE:  Determined by, or pertaining to, consultation; deliberate; consultative. He that remains in the grace of God sins not by any deliberative, consultive, knowing act. Jer. Taylor. 

CONSUMABLE:  Capable of being consumed; that may be destroyed, dissipated, wasted, or spent. "Consumable commodities." Locke. 

CONSUME:  To destroy, as by decomposition, dissipation, waste, or fire; to use up; to expend; to waste; to burn up; to eat up; to devour. If he were putting to my house the brand That shall consume it. Shak. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth consume. Matt. vi. 20 (Rev. Ver. ). Let me alone . . . that I may consume them. Ex. xxxii. 10.  Syn.  -- To destroy; swallow up; ingulf; absorb; waste; exhaust; spend; expend; squander; lavish; dissipate. 

CONSUME:  To waste away slowly. Therefore, let Renedick, like covered fire, Consume away in sighs. Shak. 

CONSUMEDLY:  Excessively. [Low] He's so consumedly pround of it. Thackeray. 

CONSUMER:  One who, or that which, consumes; as, the consumer of food.  CONSUMER'S GOODS Con*sum"er's goods. (Polit. Econ.)  Economic goods that directly satisfy human wants or desires, such as food, clothes, pictures, etc.; -- called also consumption goods, or goods of the first order, and opposed to producer's goods.  CONSUMER'S SURPLUS Consumer's surplus. (Polit. econ.)  The excess that a purchaser would be willing to pay for a commodity over that he does pay, rather than go without the commodity; -- called also consumer's rent.  The price which a person pays for a thing can never exceed, and seldom comes up to, that which he would be willing to pay rather than go without it. . . . The excess of the price which he would be willing to pay rather than go without it, over that which he actually does pay, is the economic measure of this surplus satisfaction.  It has some analogies to a rent; but is perhaps best called simply consumer's surplus. Alfred Marshall. 

CONSUMINGLY:  In a consuming manner. 

CONSUMMATE:  Carried to the utmost extent or degree; of the highest quality; complete; perfect. "A man of perfect and consummate virtue." Addison. The little band held the post with consummate tenacity. Motley 

CONSUMMATE:  To bring to completion; to raise to the highest point or degree; to complete; to finish; to perfect; to achieve. To consummate this business happily. Shak. 

CONSUMMATELY:  In a consummate manner; completely. T. Warton. 

CONSUMMATION:  The act of consummating, or the state of being consummated; completed; completion; perfection; termination; end (as of the world or of life). "Tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished. Shak. From its original to its consummation. Addison. Quiet consummation have, And renownShak. Consummation of marrige, completion of the connubial relation by actual cohabition. 

CONSUMMATIVE:  Serving to consummate; completing. "The final, the consummative procedure of philosophy." Sir W. Hamilton. 

CONSUMPTION:  A progressive wasting away of the body; esp., that form of wasting, attendant upon pulmonary phthisis and associated with cough, spitting of blood, hectic fever, etc.; pulmonary phthisis; -- called also pulmonary consumption. Consumption of the bowels (Med.), inflammation and ulceration of the intestines from tubercular disease.  Syn.  -- Decline; waste; decay. See Decline. 

CONSUMPTIVE:  Affected with, or inclined to, consumption. The lean, consumptive wench, with coughs decayed. Dryden. 

CONSUMPTIVE:  One affected with consumption; as, a resort for consumptives. 

CONSUMPTIVELY:  In a way tending to or indication consumption. Beddoes. 

CONSUMPTIVENESS:  A state of being consumptive, or a tendency to a consumption. 

CONTABESCENT:  Wasting away gradually. Darwin. - Con*ta*bes"cence, n. 

CONTACT:  The property of two curves, or surfaces, which meet, and at the point of meeting have a common direction.  3. (Mining)  The plane between two adjacent bodies of dissimilar rock. Raymond. Contact level, a delicate level so pivoted as to tilt when two parts of a measuring apparatus come into contact with each other; -- used in precise determinations of lengths and in the accurate graduation of instruments. 

CONTACTION:  Act of touching. [Obs.] 

CONTAGION:  The transmission of a disease from one person to another, by direct or indirect contact.  Note: The term has been applied by some to the action of miasmata arising from dead animal or vegetable matter, bogs, fens, etc., but in this sense it is now abandoned. Dunglison. And will he steal out of his wholesome bed To dare the vile contagion of the night Shak.  2. That which serves as a medium or agency to transmit disease; a virus produced by, or exhalation proceeding from, a diseased person, and capable of reproducing the disease.  3. The act or means of communicating any influence to the mind or heart; as, the contagion of enthusiasm. "The contagion of example." Eikon Basilike. When lust . . . Lets in defilement to the inward parts, The soul grows clotted by contagion. Milton.  4. Venom; poison. [Obs.] "I'll touch my point with this contagion." Shak.  Syn.  -- See Infection. 

CONTAGIONED:  Affected by contagion. 

CONTAGIONIST:  One who believes in the contagious character of certain diseases, as of yellow fever. 

CONTAGIOUS:  Communicable by contact, by a virus, or by a bodily exhalation; catching; as, a contagious disease.  2. Conveying or generating disease; pestilential; poisonous; as, contagious air.  3. Spreading or communicable from one to another; exciting similar emotions or conduct in others. His genius rendered his courage more contagious. Wirt. The spirit of imitation is contagious. Ames.  Syn.  -- Contagious, Infectious. These words have been used in very diverse senses; but, in general, a contagious disease has considered as one which is caught from another by contact, by the breath, by bodily effluvia, etc.; while an infectious disease supposes some entirely different cause acting by a hidden influence, like the miasma of prison ships, of marshes, etc., infecting the system with disease. "This distinction, though not universally admitted by medical men, as to the literal meaning, of the words, certainly applies to them in their figurative use. Thus we speak of the contagious influence of evil associates; their contagion of bad example, the contagion of fear, etc., when we refer to transmission by proximity or contact. On the other hand, we speak of infection by bad principles, etc., when we consider anything as diffused by some hidden influence.  CONTAGIOUS DISEASE Con*ta"gious dis*ease". (Med.)  A disease communicable by contact with a patient suffering from it, or with some secretion of, or object touched by, such a patient. Most such diseases have already been proved to be germ diseases, and their communicability depends on the transmission of the living germs.  Many germ diseases are not contagious, some special method of transmission or inoculation of the germs being required. 

CONTAGIOUSLY:  In a contagious manner. 

CONTAGIOUSNESS:  Quality of being contagious. 

CONTAGIUM:  Contagion; contagious matter. "Contagium of measles." Tyndall. 

CONTAIN:  To restrain desire; to live in continence or chastity. But if they can not contain, let them marry. 1 Cor. vii. 9. 

CONTAINABLE:  Capable of being contained or comprised. Boyle. 

CONTAINANT:  A container. 

CONTAINER:  One who, or that which, contains. 

CONTAINMENT:  That which is contained; the extent; the substance. [Obs.] The containment of a rich man's estate. Fuller. 

CONTAMINABLE:  Capable of being contaminated. 

CONTAMINATE:  To soil, stain, or corrupt by contact; to tarnish; to sully; to taint; to pollute; to defile. Shall we now Contaminate our figures with base bribes Shak. I would neither have simplicity imposed upon, nor virtue contaminated. Goldsmith.  Syn.  -- To pollute; defile; sully; taint; tarnish; soil; stain; corrupt. 

CONTAMINATE:  Contaminated; defiled; polluted; tainted. "Contaminate drink." Daniel. 

CONTAMINATION:  The act or process of contaminating; pollution; defilement; taint; also, that which contaminates. 

CONTAMITIVE:  Tending or liable to contaminate. 

CONTANGO:  The premium or interest paid by the buyer to the seller, to be allowed to defer paying for the stock purchased until the next fortnightly settlement day. [Eng.]  2. (Law)  The postponement of payment by the buyer of stock on the payment of a premium to the seller. See Backwardation. N. Biddle. 

CONTE:  A short narrative or tale, esp. one dealing with surprising or marvelous events.  The conte (sic) is a tale something more than a sketch, it may be, and something less than a short story. . . . The "Canterbury Tales" are contes, most of them, if not all, and so are some of the "Tales of a Wayside Inn." Brander Matthews. 

CONTECTION:  A covering. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CONTEK:  Contumely; reproach. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

CONTEMN:  To view or treat with contempt, as mean and despicable; to reject with disdain; to despise; to scorn. Thy pompous delicacies I contemn. Milton. One who contemned divine and human laws. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To despise; scorn; disdain; spurn; slight; neglect; underrate; overlook.  -- To Contemn, Despise, Scorn, Disdain. Contemn is the generic term, and is applied especially to objects, qualities, etc., which are deemed contemptible, and but rarely to individuals; to despise is to regard or treat as mean, unbecoming, or worthless; to scorn is stronger, expressing a quick, indignant contempt; disdain is still stronger, denoting either unwarrantable pride and haughtiness or an abhorrence of what is base. 

CONTEMNER:  One who contemns; a despiser; a scorner. "Contemners of the gods." South. 

CONTEMNINGLY:  Contemptuously. [R.] 

CONTEMPER:  To modify or temper; to allay; to qualify; to moderate; to soften. [Obs.] The antidotes . . . have allayed its bitterness and contempered its malignancy. Johnson. 

CONTEMPERATE:  To temper; to moderate. [Obs.] Moisten and contemperate the air. Sir T. Browne. 

CONTEMPERATURE:  The condition of being tempered; proportionate mixture; temperature. [Obs.] The different contemperature of the elements. SDouth. 

CONTEMPLANCE:  Contemplation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CONTEMPLANT:  Given to contemplation; meditative. [R.] Coleridge. 

CONTEMPLATE:  To consider or think studiously; to ponder; to reflect; to muse; to meditate. So many hours must I contemplate. Shak. 

CONTEMPLATIST:  A contemplator. [R.] I. Taylor. 

CONTEMPLATIVE:  A religious or either sex devoted to prayer and meditation, rather than to active works of charity. 

CONTEMPLATIVELY:  With contemplation; in a contemplative manner. 

CONTEMPLATIVENESS:  The state of being contemplative; thoughtfulness. 

CONTEMPLATOR:  One who contemplates. Sir T. Browne. 

CONTEMPORANEITY:  The state of being contemporaneous. The lines of contemporaneity in the oölitic system. J. Philips. 

CONTEMPORANEOUS:  Living, existing, or occurring at the same time; contemporary. The great age of Jewish philosophy, that of Aben Esra, Maimonides, and Kimchi, had been contemporaneous with the later Spanish school of Arabic philosophy. Milman - Con*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness, n. 

CONTEMPORANEOUSLY:  At the same time with some other event. 

CONTEMPORARINESS:  Existence at the same time; contemporaneousness. Howell. 

CONTEMPORARY:  One who lives at the same time with another; as, Petrarch and Chaucer were contemporaries. 

CONTEMPT:  Disobedience of the rules, orders, or process of a court of justice, or of rules or orders of a legislative body; disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent language or behavior in presence of a court, tending to disturb its proceedings, or impair the respect due to its authority.  Note: Contempt is in some jurisdictions extended so as to include publications reflecting injuriously on a court of justice, or commenting unfairly on pending proceedings; in other jurisdictions the courts are prohibited by statute or by the constitution from thus exercising this process.  Syn.  -- Disdain; scorn; derision; mockery; contumely; neglect; disregard; slight. 

CONTEMPTIBILITY:  The quality of being contemptible; contemptibleness. Speed. 

CONTEMPTIBLENESS:  The state or quality of being contemptible, or of being despised. 

CONTEMPTIBLY:  In a contemptible manner. 

CONTEMPTUOUS:  Manifecting or expressing contempt or disdain; scornful; haughty; insolent; disdainful. A proud, contemptious behavior. Hammond. Savage invectiveand contemptuous sarcasm. Macaulay. Rome . . . entertained the most contemptuous opinion of the Jews. Atterbury.  Syn.  -- Scornful; insolent; haughty; disdainful; supercilious; insulting; contumelious.  -- Contemptuous, Contemptible. These words, from their similarity of sound, are sometimes erroneously interchanged, as when a person speaks of having "a very contemptible opinion of another." Contemptible is applied to that which is the object of contempt; as, contemptible conduct; acontemptible fellow. Contemptuous is applied to that which indicates contempts; as, a contemptuous look; a contemptuous remark; contemptuous treatment. A person, or whatever is personal, as an action, an expression, a feeling, an opinion, may be either contemptuous or contemptible; a thing may be contemptible, but can not be contemptuous. 

CONTEMPTUOUSLY:  In a contemptuous manner; with scorn or disdain; despitefully. The apostles and most eminent Christians were poor, and used contemptuously. Jer. Taylor. 

CONTEMPTUOUSNESS:  Disposition to or manifestion of contempt; insolence; haughtiness. 

CONTEND:  To struggle for; to contest. [R.] Carthage shall contend the world with Rome.Dryden. 

CONTENDENT:  n antagonist; a contestant. [Obs.] In all notable changes and revolutions the contendents have been still made a prey to the third party. L'Estrange. 

CONTENDER:  One who contends; a contestant. 

CONTENDRESS:  A female contestant. [R.] 

CONTENEMENT:  That which is held together with another thing; that which is connected with a tenetment, or thing holden, as a certin quantity of land a Burrill. 

CONTENT:  Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited by that which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied; contented; at rest. Having food rainment, let us be therewith content. 1 Tim. vi. 8. 

CONTENT:  Area or quantity of space or matter contained within certain limits; as, solid contents; superficial contents. The geometrical content, figure, and situation of all the lands of a kingdom. Graunt. Table of contents, or Contents, a table or list of topics in a book, showing their order and the place where they may be found: a summary. 

CONTENT:  An expression of assent to a bill or motion; an affirmate vote; also, a member who votes "Content.". Supposing the number of "Contents" and "Not contents" strictly equal in number and consequence.Burke. 

CONTENTATION:  Content; satisfaction. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CONTENTED:  Content; easy in mind; satisfied; quiet; willing.  -- Con*tent"ed*ly, adv.  -- Con*tent"ed*ness, n. 

CONTENTFUL:  Full of content. [Obs.] Barrow. 

CONTENTIOUS:  Contested; litigated; litigious; having power to decide controversy. Contentious jurisdiction (Eng. Eccl. Law), jurisdiction over matters in controversy between parties, in contradistinction to voluntary jurisdiction, or that exercised upon matters not opposed or controverted.  Syn.  -- Quarrelsome; pugnacious; dissentious; wrangling; litigious; perverse; peevish. - Con*ten"tious*ly, adv.  -- Con*ten"tious*ness, n. 

CONTENTLESS:  Discontented; dissatisfied. [R.] Shak. 

CONTENTLY:  In a contented manner. [Obs.] 

CONTENTS:  See Content, n. 

CONTERMINABLE:  Having the same bounds; terminating at the same time or place; conterminous. Love and life not conterminable. Sir H. Wotton. 

CONTERMINAL:  Conterminous. 

CONTERMINANT:  Having the same limits; ending at the same time; conterminous. Lamb. 

CONTERMINATE:  Having the same bounds; conterminous. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

CONTERMINOUS:  Having the same bounds, or limits; bordering upon; contiguous. This conformed so many of them as were conterminous to the colonies and garrisons, to the Roman laws. Sir M. Hale.  CONTERRANEAN; CONTERRANEOUS Con`ter*ra"ne*an, Con`ter*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. conterraneus; con- + terra country.]  Of or belonging to the same country. Howell. 

CONTESSERATION:  An assemblage; a collection; harmonious union. [Obs.] That person of his [George Herbert], which afforded so unusual a contesseration of elegancies. Oley. 

CONTEST:  To make a subject of litigation; to defend, as a suit; to dispute or resist; as a claim, by course of law; to controvert. To contest an election. (Polit.) (a) To strive to be elected. (b) To dispute the declared result of an election.  Syn.  -- To dispute; controvert; debate; litigate; oppose; argue; contend. 

CONTEST:  To engage in contention, or emulation; to contend; to strive; to vie; to emulate; -- followed usually by with. The difficulty of an argument adds to the pleasure of contesting with in, when there are hopes of victory. Bp. Burnet. Of man, who dares in pomp with Jove contest Pope. 

CONTESTABLE:  Capable of being contested; debatable. 

CONTESTANT:  One who contests; an opponent; a litigant; a disputant; one who claims that which has been awarded to another. 

CONTESTINGLY:  In a contending manner. 

CONTEX:  To context. [Obs.] Boyle. 

CONTEXT:  Knit or woven together; close; firm. [Obs.] The coats, without, are context and callous. Derham. 

CONTEXT:  The part or parts of something written or printed, as of Scripture, which precede or follow a text or quoted sentence, or are so intimately associated with it as to throw light upon its meaning. According to all the light that the contexts afford. Sharp. 

CONTEXT:  To knit or bind together; to unite closely. [Obs.] Feltham. The whole world's frame, which is contexted only by commerce and contracts. R. Junius. 

CONTEXTURAL:  Pertaining to contexture or arrangement of parts; producing contexture; interwoven. Dr. John Smith (1666). 

CONTEXTURE:  The arrangement and union of the constituent parts of a thing; a weaving together of parts; structural character of a thing; system; constitution; texture. That wonderful contexture of all created beings. Dryden. He was not of any delicate contexture; his limbs rather sturdy than dainty. Sir H. Wotton. 

CONTEXTURED:  Formed into texture; woven together; arranged; composed. [R.] Carlyle. 

CONTICENT:  Silent. [R.] "The guests sit conticent." Thackeray. 

CONTIGUATE:  Contiguous; touching. [Obs.] Holland. 

CONTIGUITY:  The state of being contiguous; intimate association; nearness; proximity. The convicinity and contiguity of the two parishes. T. Warton. 

CONTIGUOUS:  In actual contact; touching; also, adjacent; near; neighboring; adjoining. The two halves of the paper did not appear fully divided . . . but seemed contiguous at one of their angles. Sir I. Newton. Sees no contiguous palace rear its head. Goldsmith. Contiguous angles. See Adjacent angles, under Angle.  Syn.  -- Adjoining; adjacent. See Adjacent. - Con*tig"u*ous*ly, adv.  -- Con*tig"u*ous*ness, n.  CONTINENCE; CONTINENCY Con"ti*nence, Con"ti*nen*cy, n. Etym: [F. continence, L. continentia. See Continent, and cf. Countenance.]  1. Self-restraint; self-command. He knew what to say; he knew also, when to leave off, -- a continence which is practiced by few writers. Dryden.  2. The restraint which a person imposes upon his desires and passions; the act or power of refraining from indulgence of the sexual appetite, esp. from unlawful indulgence; sometimes, moderation in sexual indulgence. If they [the unmarried and widows] have not continency, let them marry. 1 Cor. vii. 9 (Rev. Ver. ). Chastity is either abstinence or continence: abstinence is that of virgins or widows; continence, that of married persons. Jer. Taylor.  3. Uninterrupted course; continuity. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

CONTINENTAL:  Of or pertaining to the confederated colonies collectively, in the time of the Revolutionary War; as, Continental money. The army before Boston was designated as the Continental army, in contradistinction to that under General Gage, which was called the "Ministerial army." W. Irving. Continental Congress. See under Congress.  -- Continental system (Hist.), the blockade of Great Britain ordered by Napoleon by the decree of Berlin, Nov. 21, 1806; the object being to strike a blow at the maritime and commercial supremacy of Great Britain, by cutting her off from all intercourse with the continent of Europe. 

CONTINENTAL:  A soldier in the Continental army, or a piece of the Continental currency. See Continental, a., 3.  CONTINENTAL DRIVE Con`ti*nen"tal drive. (Automobiles)  A transmission arrangement in which the longitudinal crank shaft drives the rear wheels through a clutch, change-speed gear, countershaft, and two parallel side chains, in order.  CONTINENTAL GLACIER Continental glacier.  A broad ice sheet resting on a plain or plateau and spreading outward from a central névé, or region of accumulation.  CONTINENTAL PRONUNCIATION Continental pronunciation (of Latin and Greek.)  A method of pronouncing Latin and Greek in which the vowels have their more familiar Continental values, as in German and Italian, the consonants being pronounced mostly as in English. The stricter form of this method of pronouncing Latin approaches the Roman, the modified form the English, pronunciation. The Continental method of Greek pronunciation is often called Erasmian.  CONTINENTAL SYSTEM Continental system. (Hist.)  The system of commercial blockade aiming to exclude England from commerce with the Continent instituted by the Berlin decree, which Napoleon I. issued from Berlin Nov. 21, 1806, declaring the British Isles to be in a state of blockade, and British subjects, property, and merchandise subject to capture, and excluding British ships from all parts of Europe under French dominion. The retaliatory measures of England were followed by the Milan decree, issued by Napoleon from Milan Dec. 17, 1807, imposing further restrictions, and declaring every ship going to or from a port of England or her colonies to be lawful prize. 

CONTINENTLY:  In a continent manner; chastely; moderately; temperately. 

CONTINGENCE:  See Contingency. 

CONTINGENCY:  A certain possible event that may or may not happen, by which, when happening, some particular title may be affected.  Syn.  -- Casualty; accident; chance. 

CONTINGENT:  Dependent for effect on something that may or may not occur; as, a contingent estate. If a contingent legacy be left to any one when he attains, or if he attains, the age of twenty-one. Blackstone. 

CONTINGENTLY:  In a contingent manner; without design or foresight; accidentally. 

CONTINGENTNESS:  The state of being contingent; fortuitousness. 

CONTINUABLE:  Capable of being continued [R.] 

CONTINUANT:  Continuing; prolonged; sustained; as, a continuant sound.  -- n.  A continuant sound; a letter whose sound may be prolonged. 

CONTINUATIVE:  A term or expression denoting continuance. [R.] To these may be added continuatives; as, Rome remains to this day; which includes, at least, two propositions, viz., Rome was, and Rome is. I. Watts.  2. (Gram.)  A word that continues the connection of sentences or subjects; a connective; a conjunction. Continuatives . . . consolidate sentences into one continuous whole. Harris. 

CONTINUATOR:  One who, or that which, continues; esp., one who continues a series or a work; a continuer. Sir T. Browne. 

CONTINUED:  Having extension of time, space, order of events, exertion of energy, etc.; extended; protacted; uninterrupted; also, resumed after interruption; extending through a succession of issues, session, etc.; as, a continued story. "Continued woe." Jenyns. "Continued succession." Locke. Continued bass (Mus.), a bass continued through an entire piece of music, while the other parts of the harmony are indicated by figures beneath the bass; the same as thorough bass or figured bass; basso continuo. [It.] -- Continued fever (Med.), a fever which presents no interruption in its course.  -- Continued fraction (Math.), a fraction whose numerator is 1, and whose denominator is a whole number plus a fraction whose numerator is 1 and whose denominator is a whole number, plus a fraction, and so on.  -- Continued proportion (Math.), a proportion composed of two or more equal ratios, in which the consequent of each preceding ratio is the same with the antecedent of the folowing one; as, 4 : 8 : 8 : 16 :: 16 : 32. 

CONTINUEDLY:  Continuously. 

CONTINUER:  One who continues; one who has the power of perseverance or persistence. "Indulgent continuers in sin." Hammond. I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good a continuer. Shak. 

CONTINUITY:  the state of being continuous; uninterupted connection or succession; close union of parts; cohesion; as, the continuity of fibers. Grew. The sight would be tired, if it were attracted by a continuity of glittering objects. Dryden. Law of continuity (Math. & Physics), the principle that nothing passes from one state to another without passing through all the intermediate states.  -- Solution of continuity. (Math.) See under Solution. 

CONTINUO:  Basso continuo, or continued bass. 

CONTINUOUS:  Not deviating or varying from uninformity; not interrupted; not joined or articulated. Continuous brake (Railroad), a brake which is attached to each car a train, and can be caused to operate in all the cars simultaneously from a point on any car or on the engine.  -- Continuous impost. See Impost.  Syn.  -- Continuous, Continual. Continuous is the stronger word, and denotes that the continuity or union of parts is absolute and uninterrupted; as, a continuous sheet of ice; a continuous flow of water or of argument. So Daniel Webster speaks of "a continuous and unbroken strain of the martial airs of England." Continual, in most cases, marks a close and unbroken succession of things, rather than absolute continuity. Thus we speak of continual showers, implying a repetition with occasional interruptions; we speak of a person as liable to continual calls, or as subject to continual applications for aid, etc. See Constant. 

CONTINUOUSLY:  In a continuous maner; without interruption.  -- Con*tin"u*ous*ness, n. 

CONTLINE:  The space between the strands on the outside of a rope. Knight.  2. (Naut.)  The space between the bilges of two casks stowed side by side.  CONTORNIATE; CONTORNIATE Con*tor"ni*ate, Con*tor"ni*a`te, n., Etym: [It. contorniato, p.pr. of contorniare to make a circuit or outline, fr. contorno circuit, outline. See Contour.] (Numis.)  A species of medal or medallion of bronze, having a deep furrow on the contour or edge; -- supposed to have been struck in the days of Constantine and his successors. R. S. Poole. 

CONTORSION:  See Contortion. 

CONTORT:  To twist, or twist together; to turn awry; to bend; to distort; to wrest. The vertebral arteries are variously contorted. Ray. Kant contorted the term category from the proper meaning of attributed. Sir W. Hamilton. 

CONTORTION:  A twisting; a writhing; wry motion; a twist; as, the contortion of the muscles of the face. Swift. All the contortions of the sibyl, without the inspiration. Burke. 

CONTORTIONIST:  One who makes or practices contortions. 

CONTORTIVE:  Expressing contortion. 

CONTORTUPLICATE:  Plaited lengthwise and twisted in addition, as the bud of the morning-glory. Gray. 

CONTOUR:  The outline of a horizontal section of the ground, or of works of fortification. Contour feathers (Zoöl.), those feathers that form the general covering of a bird.  -- Contour of ground (Surv.), the outline of the surface of ground with respect to its undulation, etc.  -- Contour line (Topographical Suv.), the line in which a horizontal plane intersects a portion of ground, or the corresponding line in a map or chart. 

CONTOURNE:  Turned in a direction which is not the usual one; -- said of an animal turned to the sinister which is usually turned to the dexter, or the like. 

CONTOURNIATED:  Having furrowed edges, as if turned in a lathe. 

CONTRA:  A Latin adverb and preposition, signifying against, contrary, in opposition, etc., entering as a prefix into the composition of many English words. Cf. Counter, adv. & pref. 

CONTRABAND:  Prohibited or excluded by law or treaty; forbidden; as, contraband goods, or trade. The contraband will always keep pace, in some measure, with the fair trade. Burke. 

CONTRABANDISM:  Traffic in contraband gods; smuggling. 

CONTRABANDIST:  One who traffic illegaly; a smuggler. 

CONTRABASS:  , n. (Mus.) Double bass; -- applied to any instrument of the same deep range as the stringed double bass; as, the contrabass ophicleide; the cotrabass tuba or bombardon. 

CONTRABASSO:  The largest kind of bass viol. See Violone. 

CONTRACT:  To shorten by omitting a letter or letters or by reducing two or more vowels or syllables to one.  Syn.  -- To shorten; abridge; epitomize; narrow; lessen; condense; reduce; confine; incur; assume. 

CONTRACT:  Contracted: as, a contract verb. Goodwin. 

CONTRACT:  Contracted; affianced; betrothed. [Obs.] Shak. 

CONTRACT:  The agreement of two or more persons, upon a sufficient consideration or cause, to do, or to abstain from doing, some act; an agreement in which a party undertakes to do, or not to do, a particular thing; a formal bargain; a compact; an interchange of legal rights. Wharton.  2. A formal writing which contains the agreement of parties, with the terms and conditions, and which serves as a proof of the obligation.  3. The act of formally betrothing a man and woman. This is the the night of the contract. Longwellow.  Syn.  -- Covenant; agreement; compact; stipulation; bargain; arrangement; obligation. See Covenant. 

CONTRACTEDNESS:  The state of being contracted; narrowness; meannes; selfishness. 

CONTRACTIBILITY:  Capability of being contracted; quality of being contractible; as, the contractibiliy and dilatability of air. Arbuthnot. 

CONTRACTIBLE:  Capable of contraction. Small air bladders distable and contractible. Arbuthnot. 

CONTRACTIBLENESS:  Contractibility. 

CONTRACTILE:  tending to contract; having the power or property of contracting, or of shrinking into shorter or smaller dimensions; as, the contractile tissues. The heart's contractile force. H. Brooke. Each cilium seems to be composed of contractile substance. Hixley. Contractile vacuole (Zoöl.), a pulsating cavity in the interior of a protozoan, supposed to be excretory in function. There may be one, two, or more. 

CONTRACTILITY:  The power possessed by the fibers of living muscle of contracting or shortening.  Note: When subject to the will, as in the muscles of locomotion, such power is called voluntary contractility; when not controlled by the will, as in the muscles of the heart, it is involuntary contractility. 

CONTRACTION:  The process of shortening an operation.  3. The act of incurring or becoming subject to, as liabilities, obligation, debts, etc.; the process of becoming subject to; as, the contraction of a disease.  4. Something contracted or abbreviated, as a word or phrase; -- as, plenipo for plenipotentiary; crim. con. for criminal conversation, etc.  5. (Gram.)  The shortening of a word, or of two words, by the omission of a letter or letters, or by reducing two or more vowels or syllables to one; as, ne'er for never; can't for can not; don't for do not; it's for it is.  6. A marriage contract. [Obs.] Shak. 

CONTRACTIVE:  Tending to contract; having the property or power or power of contracting. 

CONTRACTOR:  One who contracts; one of the parties to a bargain; one who covenants to do anything for another; specifically, one who contracts to perform work on a rather large scale, at a certain price or rate, as in building houses or making a railroad.  CONTRACT SYSTEM Con"tract sys"tem.  1. The sweating system.  2.  The system of employing convicts by selling their labor (to be performed inside the prison) at a fixed price per day to contractors who are allowed to have agents in the prison to superintend the work.  CONTRACT TABLET Con"tract tablet. (Babylonian & Assyrian Antiq.)  A clay tablet on which was inscribed a contract, for safe keeping.  Such tablets were inclosed in an outer case (often called the envelope), on which was inscribed a duplicate of the inscription on the inclosed tablet. 

CONTRACTURE:  A state of permanent rigidity or contraction of the muscles, generally of the flexor muscles. 

CONTRADANCE:  A dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or in opposite lines. 

CONTRADICT:  To oppose in words; to gainsay; to deny, or assert the contrary of, something. They . . . spake against those things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming. Acts xiii. 45. 

CONTRADICTABLE:  Capable of being contradicting. 

CONTRADICTER:  one who contradicts. Swift. 

CONTRADICTIONAL:  Contradictory; inconsistent; opposing. [R.] Milton. 

CONTRADICTIVE:  Contradictory; inconsistent.  -- Con`tra*dict"ive*ly, adv.. 

CONTRADICTOR:  A contradicter. 

CONTRADICTORILY:  In a contradictory manner. Sharp. 

CONTRADICTORINESS:  The quality of being contradictory; opposition; inconsistency. J. Whitaker. 

CONTRADICTORY:  propositions with the same terms, but opposed to each other both in quality and quantity. 

CONTRADISTINCT:  Distinguished by opposite qualities. J. Goodwin. 

CONTRADISTINCTION:  Distinction by contrast. That there are such things as sins of infirmity in contradistinction to those of presumption is not to be questioned. South. 

CONTRADISTINCTIVE:  having the quality of contradistinction; distinguishing by contrast.  -- Con`tra*dis*tinc"tive, n. 

CONTRADISTINGUISH:  To distinguish by a contrast of opposite qualities. These are our complex ideas of soul and body, as contradistinguished. Locke. 

CONTRAFAGETTO:  The double bassoon, an octave deeper than the bassoon. 

CONTRAFISSURE:  A fissure or fracture on the side opposite to that which received the blow, or at some distance from it. Coxe. 

CONTRAHENT:  Entering into covenant; contracting; as, contrahent parties. [Obs.] Mede. 

CONTRAINDICANT:  Something, as a symptom, indicating that the usual mode of treatment is not to be followed. Burke. 

CONTRAINDICATE:  To indicate, as by a symptom, some method of treatment contrary to that which the general tenor of the case would seem to require. Contraindicating symptoms must be observed. Harvey. 

CONTRAINDICATION:  An indication or symptom which forbids the method of treatment usual in such cases. 

CONTRALTO:  Of or pertaining to a contralto, or to the part in music called contralto; as, a contralto voice. 

CONTRAMURE:  An outer wall. [Obs.] Chambers. 

CONTRANATURAL:  Opposed to or against nature; unnatural. [R.] Bp. Rust. 

CONTRAPLEX:  Pertaining to the sending of two messages in opposite directions at the same time. 

CONTRAPOSITION:  A so-called immediate inference which consists in denying the original subject of the contradictory predicate; e.g.: Every S is P; therefore, no Not-P is S. 

CONTRAPTION:  A contrivance; a new-fangled device; -- used scornfully. [Colloq. or Dial.] -- Con*trap"tious (#), a.  We all remember some of the extraordinary contraptions which have been thus evolved and put upon the market. F. M. Ware. 

CONTRAPUNTAL:  Pertaining to, or according to the rules of, counterpoint. 

CONTRAPUNTIST:  One skilled in counterpoint. L. Mason. 

CONTRAREMONSTRANT:  One who remonstrates in opposition or answer to a remonstraint. [R.] They did the synod wrong to make this distinction of contraremonstrants and remonstrants. Hales. 

CONTRARIANT:  Contrary; opposed; antagonistic; inconsistent; contradictory. [R.] The struggles of contrariant factions. Coleridge. 

CONTRARIANTLY:  Contrarily. [Obs.] 

CONTRARIES:  Propositions which directly and destructively contradict each other, but of which the falsehood of one does not establish the truth of the other. If two universals differ in quality, they are contraries; as, every vine is a tree; no vine is a tree. These can never be both true together; but they may be both false. I. Watts. 

CONTRARILY:  (adv. In a contrary manner; in opposition; on the other side; in opposite ways. 

CONTRARINESS:  state or quality of being contrary; opposition; inconsistency; contrariety; perverseness; obstinancy. 

CONTRARIOUS:  Showing contrariety; repugnant; perverse. [Archaic] Milton. She flew contrarious in the face of God. Mrs. Browning. 

CONTRARIOUSLY:  Contrarily; oppositely. Shak. 

CONTRAROTATION:  Circular motion in a direction contrary to some other circular motion. 

CONTRARY:  Affirming the opposite; so opposed as to destroy each other; as, contrary propositions. Contrary motion (Mus.), the progression of parts in opposite directions, one ascending, the other descending.  Syn.  -- Adverse; repugnant; hostile; inimical; discordant; inconsistent. 

CONTRARY:  See Contraries. On the contrary, in opposition; on the other hand. Swift.  -- To the contrary, to an opposite purpose or intent; on the other side. "They did it, not for want of instruction to the contrary." Bp. Stillingfleet. 

CONTRARY:  To contradict or oppose; to thwart. [Obs.] I was advised not to contrary the king. Bp. Latimer. 

CONTRAST:  To stand in opposition; to exhibit difference, unlikeness, or opposition of qualities. The joints which divide the sandstone contrast finely with the divisional planes which separate the basalt into pillars. Lyell. 

CONTRAST:  To give greater effect to, as to a figure or other object, by putting it in some relation of opposition to another figure or object. the figures of the groups must not be all on side . . . but must contrast each other by their several position. Dryden. 

CONTRAST:  The opposition of varied forms, colors, etc., which by such juxtaposition more vividly express each other's pecularities. Fairholt. 

CONTRASTIMULANT:  Counteracting the effects of stimulants; relating to a course of medical treatment based on a theory of contrastimulants.  -- n. (Med.)  An agent which counteracts the effect of a stimulant. 

CONTRATE:  Having cogs or teeth projecting parallel to the axis, instead of radiating from it. [R.] Contrate wheel. See Crown wheel. 

CONTRATENOR:  Counter tenor; contralto. 

CONTRAVALLATION:  A trench guarded with a parapet, constructed by besiegers, to secure themselves and check sallies of the besieged. 

CONTRAVENER:  One who contravenes. 

CONTRAVENTION:  The act of contravening; opposition; obstruction; transgression; violation. Warrants in contravention of the acts of Parliament. Macaulay. In contravention of all his marriage stipulations. Motley. 

CONTRAVERSION:  A turning to the opposite side; antistrophe. Congreve. 

CONTRAYERVA:  A species of Dorstenia (D. Contrayerva), a South American plant, the aromatic root of which is sometimes used in medicine as a gentle stimulant and tonic. 

CONTRECOUP:  A concussion or shock produced by a blow or other injury, in a part or region opposite to that at which the blow is received, often causing rupture or disorganisation of the parts affected. 

CONTRETEMPS:  An unexpected and untoward accident; something inopportune or embarassing; a hitch. In this unhappy contretemps. De Quincey. 

CONTRIBUTABLE:  Capable of being contributed. 

CONTRIBUTE:  To give or grant i common with others; to give to a common stock or for a common purpose; to furnish or suply in part; to give (money or other aid) for a specified object; as, to contribute food or fuel for the poor. England contributes much more than any other of the allies. Addison. 

CONTRIBUTION:  An irregular and arbitrary imposition or tax leved on the people of a town or country. These sums, . . . and the forced contributions paid by luckless peasants, enabled him to keep his straggling troops together. Motley.  4. (Law)  Payment, by each of several jointly liable, of a share in a loss suffered or an amount paid by one of their number for the common benefit. 

CONTRIBUTIONAL:  Pertaining to, or furnishing, a contribution.  CONTRIBUTION PLAN Con`tri*bu"tion plan. (Life Insurance)  A plan of distributing surplus by giving to each policy the excess of premiums and interest earned thereon over the expenses of management, cost of insurance, and the policy value at the date of computation. This excess is called the contribution of the policy. 

CONTRIBUTIVE:  Contributing, or tending to contribute. Fuller. 

CONTRIBUTOR:  One who, or that which, contributes; specifically, one who writes articles for a newspaper or magazine. 

CONTRIBUTORY:  Contributing to the same stock or purpose; promoting the same end; bringing assistance to some joint design, or increase to some common stock; contributive. Milton. Bonfires of contributory wood. Chapman. Contributory negligence (Law), negligence by an injured party, which combines with the negligence of the injurer in producing the injury, and which bars recovery when it is the proximate cause of the injury. Wharton. 

CONTRIBUTORY:  One who contributes, or is liable to be called upon to contribute, as toward the discharge of a common indebtedness. Abbott. 

CONTRIST:  To make sad. [Obs.] To deject and contrist myself. Sterne. 

CONTRISTATE:  To make sorrowful. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CONTRITE:  A contrite person. Hooker. 

CONTRITE:  In a contrite manner. 

CONTRITENESS:  Deep sorrow and penitence for sin; contrition. 

CONTRITURATE:  To triturate; to pulverize. [R.] 

CONTRIVABLE:  Capable of being contrived, planned, invented, or devised. A perpetual motion may seem easily contrivable. Bp. Wilkins. 

CONTRIVE:  To form by an exercise of ingenuity; to devise; to invent; to design; to plan. What more likely to contrive this admirable frame of the universe than infinite wisdom. Tillotson. neither do thou imagine that I shall contrive aught against his life. Hawthorne.  Syn.  -- To invent; discover; plan; design; project; plot; concert; hatch. 

CONTRIVE:  To make devices; to form designs; to plan; to scheme; to plot. The Fates with traitors do contrive. Shak. Thou hast contrived against th very life Of the defendant. Shak. 

CONTRIVEMENT:  Contrivance; invention; arrangement; design; plan. [Obs.] Consider the admirable contrivement and artifice of this great fabric. Glanvill. Active to meet their contrivements. Sir G. Buck. 

CONTRIVER:  One who contrives, devises, plans, or schemas. Swift. 

CONTROLLABILITY:  Capability of being controlled; controllableness. 

CONTROLLABLE:  Capable of being controlled, checked, or restrained; amenable to command. Passion is the drunkeness of the mind, and, therefore, . . . not always controllable by reason. South. 

CONTROLLABLENESS:  Capability of being controlled. 

CONTROLLER:  An iron block, usually bolted to a ship's deck, for controlling the running out of a chain cable. The links of the cable tend to drop into hollows in the block, and thus hold fast until disengaged. 

CONTROLLERSHIP:  The office of a controller. 

CONTROVERSARY:  Controversial. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

CONTROVERSE:  Controversy. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CONTROVERSE:  To dispute; to controvert. [Obs.] "Controversed causes." Hooker. 

CONTROVERSER:  A disputant. [Obs.] 

CONTROVERSIAL:  Relating to, or consisting of, controversy; disputatious; polemical; as, controversial divinity. Whole libraries of controversial books. Macaulay. 

CONTROVERSIALIST:  One who carries on a controversy; a disputant. He [Johnson] was both intellectually and morally of the stuff of which controversialists are made. Macaulay. 

CONTROVERSIALLY:  In a controversial manner. 

CONTROVERSION:  Act of controverting; controversy. [Obs.] Hooker. 

CONTROVERSOR:  A controverser. [Obs.] 

CONTROVERT:  To make matter of controversy; to dispute or oppose by reasoning; to contend against in words or writings; to contest; to debate. Some controverted points had decided according to the sense of the best jurists. Macaulay. 

CONTROVERTER:  One who controverts; a controversial writer; a controversialist. Some controverters in divinity are like swaggerers in a tavern. B. Jonson. 

CONTROVERTIBLE:  Capable of being controverted; disputable; admitting of question.  -- Con`tro*ver"ti*bly, adv. 

CONTROVERTIST:  One skilled in or given to controversy; a controversialist. How unfriendly is the controvertist to the discernment of the critic! Campbell.  CONTUBERNAL; CONTUBERNIAL Con*tu"ber*nal, Con`tu*ber"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. contubernalis a tent companion, fr. contubernium tent companionship.]  Living or messing together; familiar; in companionship. Humble folk ben Christes friends: they ben contubernial with the Lord, thy King. Chaucer. 

CONTUMACIOUS:  Willfully disobedient to the summous or prders of a court. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- Stubborn; obstinate; obdurate; disobedient; perverse; unyielding; headstrong.  -- Con`tu*ma"cious*ly, adv.  -- Con`tu*ma"cious*ness, n. 

CONTUMACY:  A willful contempt of, and disobedience to, any lawful summons, or to the rules and orders of court, as a refusal to appear in court when legally summoned.  Syn.  -- Stubbornness; perverseness; obstinacy. 

CONTUMELY:  Rudeness compounded of haughtiness and contempt; scornful insolence; despiteful treatment; disdain; contemptuousness in act or speech; disgrace. The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely. Shak. Nothing aggravates tyranny so much as contumely. Burke. 

CONTUSION:  A bruise; an injury attended with more or less disorganization of the subcutaneous tissue and effusion of blood beneath the skin, but without apparent wound. 

CONURE:  An American parrakeet of the genus Conurus. Many species are known. See Parrakeet. 

CONUS:  A Linnean genus of mollusks having a conical shell. See Cone, n., 4. 

CONUSABLE:  Cognizable; liable to be tried or judged. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow. 

CONUSANT:  See Cognizant. 

CONUSOR:  See Cognizor. 

CONVALESCE:  To recover health and strength gradually, after sickness or weakness; as, a patient begins to convalesce. 

CONVALESCED:  Convalescent. [R.] He found the queen somewhat convalesced. J. Knox.  CONVALESCENCE; CONVALESCENCY Con`va*les"cence, Con`va*les"cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. convalescentia: cf. F. convalescence.]  The recovery of heath and strength after disease; the state of a body renewing its vigor after sickness or weakness; the time between the subsidence of a disease and complete restoration to health. 

CONVALESCENT:  One recovering from sickness. 

CONVALESCENTLY:  In the manner of a convalescent; with increasing strength or vigor. 

CONVALLAMARIN:  A white, crystalline, poisonous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from the lily of the valley (Convallaria Majalis). Its taste is first bitter, then sweet. 

CONVALLARIA:  The lily of the valley. 

CONVALLARIN:  A white, crystalline glucoside, of an irritating taste, extracted from the convallaria or lily of the valley. 

CONVECTION:  A process of transfer or transmission, as of heat or electricity, by means of currents in liquids or gases, resulting from changes of temperature and other causes. Liquids are generally heated by convection -- when heat is applied from bellow. Nichol. 

CONVECTIVE:  Caused or accomplished by convection; as, a convective discharge of electricity. Faraday. 

CONVECTIVELY:  In a convective manner. Hare. 

CONVELLENT:  Tending to tear or pull up. [Obs.] The ends of the fragment . . . will not yield to the convellent force. Todd & Bowman. 

CONVENABLE:  Capable of being convened or assembled. 

CONVENABLE:  Consistent; accordant; suitable; proper; as, convenable remedies. [Obs.] With his wod his work is convenable. Spenser. 

CONVENANCE:  That which is suitable, agreeable, or convenient. And they missed Their wonted convenance, cheerly hid the loss. Emerson. 

CONVENIENTLY:  In a convenient manner, form, or situation; without difficulty. 

CONVENT:  To call before a judge or judicature; to summon; to convene. [Obs.] Shak. 

CONVENTICAL:  Of or from, or pertaining to, a convent. "Conventical wages." Sterne. Conventical prior. See Prior. 

CONVENTICLER:  One who supports or frequents conventicles. Dryden. 

CONVENTICLING:  Belonging or going to, or resembling, a conventicle. [Obs.] Conventicling schools . . . set up and taught secretly by fanatics. South. 

CONVENTION:  An extraordinary assembly of the parkiament or estates of the realm, held without the king's writ, -- as the assembly which restored Charles II. to the throne, and that which declared the throne to be abdicated by James II. Our gratitude is due . . . to the Long Parliament, to the Convention, and to William of Orange. Macaulay.  5. An agreement or contract less formal than, or preliminary to, a traety; an informal compact, as between commanders of armies in respect to suspension of hostilities, or between states; also, a formal agreement between governments or sovereign powers; as, a postal convetion between two governments. This convention, I think from my soul, is nothing but a stipulation for national ignominy; a truce without a suspension of hostilities. Ld. Chatham. The convention with the State of georgia has been ratified by their Legislature. T. Jefferson. 

CONVENTIONALISM:  The principles or practice of conventionalizing. See Conventionalize, v. t. 

CONVENTIONALITY:  The state of being conventional; adherence to social formalities or usages; that which is established by conventional use; one of the customary usages of social life. 

CONVENTIONALIZE:  To make designs in art, according to conventional principles. Cf. Conventionalize, v. t., 2. 

CONVENTIONALLY:  In a conventional manner. 

CONVENTIONARY:  Acting under contract; settled by express agreement; as, conventionary tenants. [Obs.] R. Carew. 

CONVENTIONER:  One who belongs to a convention or assembly. 

CONVENTIONIST:  One who enters into a convention, covenant, or contract. 

CONVENTUAL:  Of or pertaining to a convent; monastic. "A conventual garb." Macaulay. Conventual church, a church attached or belonging to a convent or monastery. Wordsworth. 

CONVENTUAL:  One who lives in a convent; a monk or num; a recluse. Addison. 

CONVERGE:  To tend to one point; to incline and approach nearer together; as, lines converge. The mountains converge into a single ridge. Jefferson. 

CONVERGE:  To cause to tend to one point; to cause to incline and approach nearer together. I converge its rays to a focus of dazzling brilliancy. Tyndall.  CONVERGENCE; CONVERGENCY Con*ver"gence, Con*ver"gen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. convergence.]  The condition or quality of converging; tendency to one point. The convergence or divergence of the rays falling on the pupil. Berkeley. 

CONVERGENT:  tending to one point of focus; tending to approach each other; converging. As many rays of light, as conveniently can be let in, and made convergent. Boyle. The vast dome of its cathedral . . . directing its convergent curves to heaven. Hallam. 

CONVERGING:  Tending to one point; approaching each other; convergent; as, converging lines. Whewell. Converging rays(Opt.), rays of light, which, proceeding from different points of an object, tend toward a single point.  -- Converging series (Math.), a series in which if an indefinitely great number of terms be taken, their sum will become indefinitely near in value to a fixed quantity, which is called the sum of the series; -- opposed to a diverging series. 

CONVERSABLE:  Qualified for conversation; disposed to converse; sociable; free in discourse. While young, humane, conversable, and kind. Cowper. 

CONVERSABLENESS:  The quality of being conversable; disposition to converse; sociability. 

CONVERSABLY:  In a conversable manner. 

CONVERSANCE:  The state or quality of being conversant; habit of familiarity; familiar acquaintance; intimacy. [R.] 

CONVERSANCY:  Conversance [R.] 

CONVERSANT:  One who converses with another; a convenser. [R.] 

CONVERSANTLY:  In a familiar manner. 

CONVERSATIONAL:  Pertaining to conversation; in the manner of one conversing; as, a conversational style. Thackeray. 

CONVERSATIONALIST:  A conversationist. 

CONVERSATIONED:  Acquainted with manners and deportment; behaved. [Obs.] Till she be better conversationed, . . . I'll keep As far from her as the gallows. Beau. & Fl. 

CONVERSATIONISM:  A word or phrase used in conversation; a colloqualism. 

CONVERSATIONIST:  One who converses much, or who excels in conversation. Byron. 

CONVERSATIVE:  Relating to intercourse with men; social; -- opposed to contemplative. She chose . . . to endue him with the conversative qualities of youth. Sir H. Wotton. 

CONVERSAZIONE:  A meeting or assembly for conversation, particularly on literary or scientific subjects. Gray. These conversazioni [at Florence] resemble our card assemblies. A. Drummond. 

CONVERSE:  , a. Etym: [L. conversus, p.p. of convertere. See Convert.] Turned about; reversed in order or relation; reciprocal; as, a converse proposition. 

CONVERSE:  A proposition which arises from interchanging the terms of another, as by putting the predicate for the subject, and the subject for the predicate; as, no virtue is vice, no vice is virtue.  Note: It should not (as is often done) be confounded with the contrary or opposite of a proposition, which is formed by introducing the negative not or no.  2. (Math.)  A proposition in which, after a conclusion from something supposed has been drawn, the order is inverted, making the conclusion the supposition or premises, what was first supposed becoming now the conclusion or inference. Thus, if two sides of a sides of a triangle are equal, the angles opposite the sides are equal; and the converse is true, i.e., if these angles are equal, the two sides are equal. 

CONVERSELY:  In a converse manner; with change of order or relation; reciprocally. J. S. Mill. 

CONVERSER:  One who engages in conversation. 

CONVERSIBLE:  Capable of being converted or reversed. Hammond. 

CONVERSION:  An appropriation of, and dealing with the property of another as if it were one's own, without right; as, the conversion of a horse. Or bring my action of conversion And trover for my goods. Hudibras.  4. (Logic)  The act of interchanging the terms of a proposition, as by putting the subject in the place of the predicate, or the contrary.  5. (Math.)  A change or reduction of the form or value of a proposition; as, the conversion of equations; the conversion of proportions.  6. (Mil.) (a) A change of front, as a body of troops attacked in the flank. (b) A change of character or use, as of smoothbore guns into rifles.  7. (Theol.)  A spiritual and moral change attending a change of belief with conviction; a change of heart; a change from the service of the world to the service of God; a change of the ruling disposition of the soul, involving a transformation of the outward life. He oft Frequented their assemblies, . . . and to them preached Conversion and repentance, as to souls In prison under judgments imminent. Milton. 

CONVERT:  To change (one proposition) into another, so that what was the subject of the first becomes the predicate of the second.  8. To turn into another language; to translate. [Obs.] Which story . . . Catullus more elegantly converted. B. Jonson. Converted guns, cast-iron guns lined with wrought-iron or steel tubes. Farrow.  -- Converting furnace (Steel Manuf.), a furnace in which wrought iron is converted into steel by cementation.  Syn.  -- To change; turn; transmute; appropriate. 

CONVERT:  To be turned or changed in character or direction; to undergo a change, physically or morally. If Nebo had had the preaching that thou hast, they [the Neboites] would have converted. Latimer. A red dust which converth into worms. Sandys. The public hope And eye to thee converting. Thomson. 

CONVERTEND:  Any proposition which is subject to the process of conversion; -- so called in its relation to itself as converted, after which process it is termed the conversae. See Converse, n. (Logic). 

CONVERTER:  A retort, used in the Bessemer process, in which molten cast iron is decarburized and converted into steel by a blast of air forced through the liquid metal. 

CONVERTIBILITY:  The condition or quality of being convertible; capability of being exchanged; convertibleness. The mutual convertibility of land into money, and of money into land. Burke. 

CONVERTIBLENESS:  The state of being convertible; convertibility. 

CONVERTIBLY:  In a convertible manner. 

CONVERTITE:  A convert. [Obs.] Shak. 

CONVEX:  Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularly protuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved line when viewed from without, in opposition to concave. Drops of water naturally form themselves into figures with a convex surface. Whewell. Double convex, convex on both sides; convexo-convex. 

CONVEX:  A convex body or surface. Half heaven's convex glitters with the flame. Tickell.  Note: This word was often pronounced con-vex' by early writers, as by Milton, and occasionallyby later poets. 

CONVEXED:  Made convex; protuberant in a spherical form. Sir T. Browne. 

CONVEXEDLY:  In a convex form; convexly. Sir T. Browne. 

CONVEXEDNESS:  Convexity. 

CONVEXITY:  The state of being convex; the exterior surface of a convex body; roundness. A smooth, uniform convexity and rotundity of a globe. Bentley. 

CONVEXLY:  In a convex form; as, a body convexly shaped. 

CONVEXNESS:  The state of being convex; convexity.  CONVEXO-CONCAVE Con*vex"o-con"cave (or ), a.  Convex on one side, and concave on the other. The curves of the convex and concave sides may be alike or may be different. See Meniscus.  CONVEXO-CONVEX Con*vex"o-con"vex, a.  Convex on botConvex, a.  CONVEXO-PLANE Con*vex"o-plane`, a.  Convex on one side, and flat on the other; plano-convex. 

CONVEY:  To play the thief; to steal. [Cant] But as I am Crack, I will convey, crossbite, and cheat upon Simplicius. Marston. 

CONVEYABLE:  Capable of being conveyed or transferred. Burke. 

CONVEYANCE:  The act by which the title to property, esp. real estate, is transferred; transfer of ownership; an instrument in writing (as a deed or mortgage), by which the title to property is conveyed from one person to another. [He] found the conveyances in law to be so firm, that in justice he must decree the land to the earl. Clarendon.  5. Dishonest management, or artifice. [Obs.] the very jesuits themselves . . . can not possibly devise any juggling conveyance how to shift it off. Hakewill. 

CONVEYANCER:  One whose business is to draw up conveyances of property, as deeds, mortgages, leases, etc. Burrill. 

CONVEYANCING:  The business of a conveyancer; the act or business of drawing deeds, leases, or other writings, for transferring the title to property from one person to another. 

CONVEYOR:  A contrivance for carrying objects from place to place; esp., one for conveying grain, coal, etc., -- as a spiral or screw turning in a pipe or trough, an endless belt with buckets, or a truck running along a rope. 

CONVICIATE:  To utter reproaches; to raise a clamor; to rail. [Obs.] To conviciate instead of accusing. Laud. 

CONVICINITY:  Immediate vicinity; neighborhood. The convicinity and contiguity of the two parishes. T. Warton. 

CONVICIOUS:  Expressing reproach; abusive; railing; taunting. [Obs.] "Convicious words." Queen Elizabeth (1559). 

CONVICT:  Proved or found guilty; convicted. [Obs.] Shak. Convict by flight, and rebel to all law. Milton. 

CONVICTIBLE:  Capable of being convicted. [R.] Ash. 

CONVICTION:  A judgment of condemnation entered by a court having jurisdiction; the act or process of finding guilty, or the state of being found guilty of any crime by a legal tribunal. Conviction may accrue two ways. Blackstone.  3. The act of convincing of error, or of compelling the admission of a truth; confutation. For all his tedious talk is but vain boast, Or subtle shifts conviction to evade. Milton.  4. The state of being convinced or convicted; strong persuasion or belief; especially, the state of being convicted of sin, or by one's conscience. To call good evil, and evil good, against the conviction of their own consciences. Swift. And did you presently fall under the power of this conviction Bunyan.  Syn.  -- Conviction; persuasion.  -- Conviction respects soley matters of belief or faith; persuasion respects matters of belief or practice. Conviction respects our most important duties; persuasion is frequently applied to matters of indifference. Crabb.  -- Conviction is the result of the [operation of the] understanding; persuasion, of the will. Conviction is a necessity of the mind, persuasion an acquiescence of the inclination. C. J. Smith.  -- Persuasion often induces men to act in opposition to their conviction of duty. 

CONVICTISM:  The policy or practice of transporting convicts to penal settlements. "The evils of convictism." W. Howitt. 

CONVICTIVE:  Convincing. [R.] The best and most convictive argument. Glanwill. -- Con*vict"ive*ly, adv.  -- Con*vict"ive*ness, n. 

CONVINCEMENT:  Act of convincing, or state of being convinced; conviction. [R.] The fear of a convincement. Milton. 

CONVINCER:  One who, or that which, convinces; one who wins over by proof. 

CONVINCINGLY:  in a convincing manner; in a manner to compel assent. 

CONVINCINGNESS:  The power of convincing, or the quality of being convincing. 

CONVIVAL:  pertaining to a feast or to festivity; convivial. [Obs.] "A convival dish." Sir T. Browne. 

CONVIVE:  To feast together; to be convivial. [Obs.] "There, in the full, convive we." Shak. 

CONVIVE:  A quest at a banquet. [R.] Beaumont. 

CONVIVIAL:  Of or relating to a feast or entertainment, or to eating and drinking, with accompanying festivity; festive; social; gay; jovial. Which feasts convivial meetings we did name. Denham. 

CONVIVIALIST:  A person of convivial habits. 

CONVIVIALITY:  The good humor or mirth indulged in upon festive occasions; a convivial spirit or humor; festivity. 

CONVIVIALLY:  In a convivial manner. 

CONVOCATE:  To convoke; to call together. [Obs.] May (Lucan). 

CONVOCATION:  An assembly of the clergy, by their representatives, to consult on ecclesiastical affairs.  Note: In England, the provinces of Canterbury and York have each their convocation, but no session for business were allowed from 1717 to 1861. The Convocation of Canterbury consists of two houses. In the Convocation of York the business has been generally conducted in one assembly.  4. (Oxf. University)  An academical assembly, in which the business of the university is transacted.  Syn.  -- meeting; assembly; congregation; congress; diet; convention; synod; council. 

CONVOCATIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a convocation. 

CONVOCATIONIST:  An advocate or defender of convocation. 

CONVOKE:  To call together; to summon to meet; to assemble by summons. There remained no resource but the dreadful one of convoking a parliament. palfrey.  Syn.  -- To summon; assemble; convene. See Call. 

CONVOLUTE:  Rolled or wound together, one part upon another; -- said of the leaves of plants in æstivation. 

CONVOLUTION:  An irregular, tortuous folding of an organ or part; as, the convolutions of the intestines; the cerebral convolutions. See Brain. 

CONVOLVE:  To roll or wind together; to roll or twist one part on another. Then Satan first knew pain, And writhed him to and fro convolved. Milton. 

CONVOLVULACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the bindweed and the morning-glory are common examples. 

CONVOLVULIN:  A glucoside occurring in jalap (the root of a convolvulaceous plant), and extracted as a colorless, tasteless, gummy mass of powerful purgative properties. 

CONVOLVULUS:  A large genus of plants having monopetalous flowers, including the common bindweed (C. arwensis), and formerly the morning-glory, but this is now transferred to the genus Ipomæa. The luster of the long convolvuluses That coiled around the stately stems. Tennyson. 

CONVOY:  To accompany for protection, either by sea or land; to attend for protection; to escort; as, a frigate convoys a merchantman. I know ye skillful to convoy The total freight of hope and joy. Emerson. 

CONVULSION:  An unnatural, violent, and unvoluntary contraction of the muscular parts of an animal body.  2. Any violent and irregular motion or agitation; a violent shaking; a tumult; a commotion. Those two massy pillars, With horrible convulsion, to and fro He tugged, he shook, till down they came. Milton. Times of violence and convulsion. Ames.  Syn.  -- Agitation; commotion; tumult; disturbance. 

CONVULSIONAL:  Pertaining to, or having, convulsions; convulsionary. [R.] Lamb. 

CONVULSIONARY:  Pertaining to convulsion; convulsive. "Convulsionary struggles." Sir W. Scott. 

CONVULSIONARY:  A convulsionist. 

CONVULSIONIST:  One who has convulsions; esp., one of a body of fanatics in France, early in the eighteenth century, who went into convulsions under the influence of religious emotion; as, the Convulsionists of St. Médard. 

CONVULSIVE:  Producing, or attended with, convulsions or spasms; characterized by convulsions; convulsionary. An irregular, convulsive movement may be necessary to throw off an irregular, convulsive disease. Burke. 

CONVULSIVELY:  in a convulsive manner. 

CONY:  To deceive; to cheat; to trick. [Obs.] Take heed, Signor Baptista, lest you be cony-catched in the this business. Shak.  CONY-CATCHER Co"ny-catch`er, n.  A cheat; a sharper; a deceiver. [Obs.] Minsheu. 

CONYLENE:  An oily substance, C8H14, obtained from several derivatives of conine. 

CONYRINE:  A blue, fluorescent, oily base (regarded as a derivative of pyridine), obtained from conine. 

COO:  A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes as a call or signal. [Written also cooie.] 

COOK:  To make the noise of the cuckoo. [Obs. or R.] Constant cuckoos cook on every side. The Silkworms (1599). 

COOK:  To throw. [Prov.Eng.] "Cook me that ball." Grose. 

COOK:  A fish, the European striped wrasse. 

COOK:  To prepare food for the table. 

COOKBOOK:  A book of directions and receipts for cooking; a cookery book. [U.S.] "Just How": a key to the cookbooks. Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney. 

COOKEE:  A female cook. [R.] 

COOKERY:  See Cooky. 

COOKMAID:  A female servant or maid who dresses provisions and assists the cook. 

COOKROOM:  A room for cookery; a kitchen; the galley or caboose of a ship. Sir W. Raleigh. 

COOKSHOP:  An eating house. "A subterranean cookshop." Macaulay. 

COOKY:  A small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds. 

COOL:  A moderate state of cold; coolness; -- said of the temperature of the air between hot and cold; as, the cool of the day; the cool of the morning or evening. 

COOLER:  That which cools, or abates heat or excitement. if acid things were used only as coolers, they would not be so proper in this case. Arbuthnot.  2. Anything in or by which liquids or other things are cooled, as an ice chest, a vessel for ice water, etc.  COOL-HEADED Cool"-head`ed, a.  Having a temper not easily excited; free from passion.  -- Cool"-head`ed*ness, n. 

COOLIE:  Same as Cooly. 

COOLING:  Adapted to cool and refresh; allaying heat. "The cooling brook." Goldsmith. Cooling card, something that dashes hopes. [Obs.] -- Cooling time (Law), such a lapse of time as ought, taking all the circumstances of the case in view, to produce a subsiding of passion previously provoked. Wharton. 

COOLISH:  Somewhat cool. The nights began to grow a little coolish. Goldsmith. 

COOLLY:  Coolish; cool. [Obs.] Spenser. 

COOLLY:  In a cool manner; without heat or excessive cold; without passion or ardor; calmly; deliberately; with indifference; impudently. 

COOLUNG:  The great gray crane of India (Grus cinerea). [Also written coolen and cullum.]  COOLY; COOLIE Coo"ly, Coo"lie, n.; pl. Coolies. Etym: [Hind. k a laborer, porter: cf. Turk. k, ky, slave.]  An East Indian porter or carrier; a laborer transported from the East Indies, China, or Japan, for service in some other country. 

COOM:  Soot; coal dust; refuse matter, as the dirty grease which comes from axle boxes, or the refuse at the mouth of an oven. Phillips. Bailey. 

COOMB:  A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter. [Written also comb.]  COOMB; COOMBE Coomb, Coombe, n. Etym: [See Comb, Combe, in this sense.]  A hollow in a hillside. [Prov. Eng.] See Comb, Combe. 

COON:  A raccoon. See Raccoon. 

COONCAN:  A game of cards derived from conquian, played by two or more players with one or two full packs of cards. 

COONTIE:  A cycadaceous plant of Florida and the West Indies, the Zamia integrifolia, from the stems of which a kind of sago is prepared. 

COOP:  To confine in a coop; hence, to shut up or confine in a narrow compass; to cramp; -- usually followed by up, sometimes by in. The Trojans coopet within their walls so long. Dryden. The contempt of all other knowledge . . . coops the understanding up within narrow bounds. Locke.  2. To work upon in the manner of a cooper. [Obs.] "Shaken tubs . . . be new cooped." Holland.  Syn.  -- To crowd; confine; imprison. 

COOPEE:  See Coupe. [Obs.] Johnson. 

COOPER:  One who makes barrels, hogsheads, casks, etc. 

COOPER:  To do the work of a cooper upon; as, to cooper a cask or barrel. 

COOPERANT:  Operating together; as, coöperant forces. 

COOPERATE:  To act or operate jointly with another or others; to concur in action, effort, or effect. Whate'er coöperates to the common mirth. Crashaw. 

COOPERATION:  The association of a number of persons for their benefit. 

COOPERATIVE:  Operating jointly to the same end. Coöperative society, a society established on the principle of a joint-stock association, for the production of commodities, or their purchase and distribution for consumption, or for the borrowing and lending of capital among its members.  -- Coöperative store, a store established by a coöperative society, where the members make their purchases and share in the profits or losses. 

COOPERATOR:  One who labors jointly with others to promote the same end. "Coöperators with the truth." Boyle. 

COOPERING:  Work done by a cooper in making or repairing barrels, casks, etc.; the business of a cooper. 

COOPERY:  Relating to a cooper; coopered. [Obs.] Coopery vessels made of wood. Holland. 

COOPERY:  The occupation of a cooper. Crabb. 

COOPT:  To choose or elect in concert with another. [R.] Each of the hundred was to coöpt three others. Jowett (Thysyd. ). 

COOPTATE:  To choose; to elect; to coöpt. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

COOPTATION:  The act of choosing; selection; choice. [Obs.] The first election and coöptation of a friend. Howell. 

COORDAIN:  To ordain or appoint for some purpose along with another. 

COORDINANCE:  Joint ordinance. 

COORDINATE:  Equal in rank or order; not subordinate. Whether there was one Supreme Governor of the world, or many coördinate powers presiding over each country. Law. Conjunctions joint sentences and coördinate terms. Rev. R. Morris. Coördinate adjectives, adjectives disconnected as regards ane another, but referring equally to the same subject.  -- Coördinate conjunctions, conjunctions joining independent propositions. Rev. R. Morris. 

COORDINATE:  Lines, or other elements of reference, by means of which the position of any point, as of a curve, is defined with respect to certain fixed lines, or planes, called coördinate axes and coördinate planes. See Abscissa.  Note: Coördinates are of several kinds, consisting in some of the different cases, of the following elements, namely: (a) (Geom. of Two Dimensions) The abscissa and ordinate of any point, taken together; as the abscissa PY and ordinate PX of the point P (Fig. 2, referred to the coördinate axes AY and AX. (b) Any radius vector PA (Fig. 1), together with its angle of inclination to a fixed line, APX, by which any point A in the same plane is referred to that fixed line, and a fixed point in it, called the pole, P. (c) (Geom. of Three Dimensions) Any three lines, or distances, PB, PC, PD (Fig. 3), taken parallel to three coördinate axes, AX, AY, AZ, and measured from the corresponding coördinate fixed planes, YAZ, XAZ, XAY, to any point in space, P, whose position is thereby determined with respect to these planes and axes. (d) A radius vector, the angle which it makes with a fixed plane, and the angle which its projection on the plane makes with a fixed line line in the plane, by which means any point in space at the free extremity of the radius vector is referred to that fixed plane and fixed line, and a fixed point in that line, the pole of the radius vector. Cartesian coördinates. See under Cartesian.  -- Geographical coördinates, the latitude and longitude of a place, by which its relative situation on the globe is known. The height of the above the sea level constitutes a third coördinate.  -- Polar coördinates, coördinates made up of a radius vector and its angle of inclination to another line, or a line and plane; as those defined in (b) and (d) above.  -- Rectangular coördinates, coördinates the axes of which intersect at right angles.  -- Rectilinear coördinates, coördinates made up of right lines. Those defined in (a) and (c) above are called also Cartesian coördinates.  -- Trigonometrical or Spherical coördinates, elements of reference, by means of which the position of a point on the surface of a sphere may be determined with respect to two great circles of the sphere.  -- Trilinear coördinates, coördinates of a point in a plane, consisting of the three ratios which the three distances of the point from three fixed lines have one to another. 

COORDINATELY:  In a coördinate manner. 

COORDINATENESS:  The state of being coördinate; equality of rank or authority. 

COORDINATIVE:  Expressing coördination. J. W. Gibbs. 

COOTFOOT:  The pharalope; -- so called because its toes are like the coot's. 

COOTHAY:  A striped satin made in India. McElrath. 

COP:  same as Merlon.  5. A policeman. [Slang] Cop waste, a kind of cotton waste, composed chiefly  COPAIBA; COPAIVA Co*pai"ba, Co*pai"va, n. Etym: [Sp. & Pg., fr. Brazil. cupaúba.] (Med.)  A more or less viscid, vellowish liquid, the bitter oleoresin of several species of Copaifera, a genus of trees growing in South America and the West Indies. It is stimulant and diuretic, and is much used in affections of the mucous membranes; -- called also balsam of copaiba. [Written also capivi.] 

COPAL:  A resinous substance flowing spontaneously from trees of Zanzibar, Madagascar, and South America (Trachylobium Hornemannianum, T. verrocosum, and Hymenæa Courbaril), and dug from earth where forests have stood in Africa; -- used chiefly in making varnishes. Ur 

COPALM:  The yellowish, fragrant balsam yielded by the sweet gum; also, the tree itself. 

COPARCENARY:  Partnership in inheritance; joint heirship; joint right of sucession to an inheritance. 

COPARCENER:  One who has an equal portion with others of an inheritance. All the coparceners together make but one heir, and have but one estate among them. blackstone. 

COPARCENY:  An equal share of an inheritance. 

COPART:  To share. [Obs.] For, of all miserias, I hold that chief Wretched to be, when none coparts our grief. Webster (1661). 

COPARTMENT:  A compartment. [Obs.] T. Warton. 

COPARTNER:  One who is jointly concerned with one or more persons in business, etc.; a partner; an associate; a partaker; a sharer. the associates and copartners of our loss. Milton. 

COPARTNERY:  the state of being copartners in any undertaking. [R.] 

COPATAIN:  Having a high crown, or a point or peak at top. [Obs.] A copatain hat made on a Flemish block. Gascoigne. 

COPATRIOT:  A joint patriot. 

COPE:  The top part of a flask or mold; the outer part of a loam mold. Knight. De Colange. 

COPE:  To form a cope or arch; to bend or arch; to bow. [Obs.] Some bending down and coping to ward the earth. Holland. 

COPE:  To pare the beak or talons of (a hawk). J. H. Walsh. 

COPE:  A narrow chisel adapted for cutting a groove. Knight. 

COPECK:  A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck. 

COPED:  Clad in a cope. 

COPELATA:  See Larvalla. 

COPEMAN:  A chapman; a dealer; a merchant. [Obs.] He would have sold his part of paradise For ready money, had he met a copeman. B. Jonson. 

COPENHAGEN:  A sweetened hot drink of spirit and beaten eggs.  2.  A children's game in which one player is inclosed by a circle of others holding a rope. 

COPEPOD:  Of or pertaining to the Copepoda.  -- n.  One of the Copepoda. 

COPEPODA:  An order of Entomastraca, including many minute Crustacea, both freshwater and marine.  Note: They have a distinct carapace. The eggs are carried in a pair of external pouches. Some are parasites of fishes. 

COPERNICAN:  Pertaining to Copernicus, a Prussian by birth (b. 1473, d. 1543), who taught the world the solar system now received, called the Copernican system. 

COPESMATE:  An associate or companion; a friend; a partner. [Obs.] Misshapen time, copesmate of ugly Night. Shak. 

COPESTONE:  A stone for coping. See Coping. 

COPING:  The highest or covering course of masonry in a wall, often with sloping edges to carry off water; -- sometimes called capping. Gwill. 

COPIOUS:  Large in quantity or amount; plentiful; abundant; fruitful. Kindly pours its copious treasures forth. Thomson. Hail, Son of God, Savior of men! thy name Shall be the copious matter of my song. Milton.  Syn.  -- Ample; abundant; plentiful; plenteous; rich; full; exuberant; overflowing; full. See Ample. 

COPIOUSLY:  In a copious manner. 

COPIOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being copious; abudance; plenty; also, diffuseness in style. To imitatethe copiousness of Homer. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Abudance; plenty; richness; exuberance. 

COPIST:  A copier. [Obs.] "A copist after nature." Shaftesbury. 

COPLANAR:  Situated in one plane. 

COPLAND:  A piece of ground terminating in a point or acute angle. [Obs.] 

COPORTION:  Equal share. [Obs.] Myself will bear . . . coportion of your pack. Spenser. 

COPPED:  Rising to a point or head; conical; pointed; crested. Wiseman. 

COPPEL:  See Cupel. 

COPPER:  the boilers in the galley for cooking; as, a ship's coppers.  Note: Copper is often used adjectively, commonly in the sense of made or consisting of copper, or resembling copper; as, a copper boiler, tube, etc. All in a hot and copper sky. Coleridge.  Note: It is sometimes written in combination; as, copperplate, coppersmith, copper-colored. Copper finch. (Zoöl.) See Chaffinch.  -- Copper glance, or Vitreous copper. (Min.) See Chalcocite.  -- Indigo copper. (Min.) See Covelline. 

COPPER:  To cover or coat with copper; to sheathe with sheets of copper; as, to copper a ship. 

COPPERAS:  Green vitriol, or sulphate of iron; a green crystalline substance, of an astringent taste, used in making ink, in dyeing black, as a tonic in medicine, etc. It is made on a large scale by the oxidation of iron pyrites. Called also ferrous sulphate.  Note: The term copperas was formerly synonymous with vitriol, and included the green, blue, and white vitriols, or the sulphates of iron, copper, and zinc.  COPPER-BOTTOMED Cop"per-bot`tomed, a.  Having a bottom made of copper, as a tin boiler or other vessel, or sheathed with copper, as a ship.  COPPER-FACED Cop"per-faced`, a.  Faced or covered with copper; as, copper-faced type.  COPPER-FASTENED Cop"per-fas`tened, a.  Fastened with copper bolts, as the planks of ships, etc.; as, a copper-fastened ship. 

COPPERHEAD:  A poisonous American serpent (Ancistrodon conotortrix), closely allied to the rattlesnake, but without rattles; -- called also copper-belly, and red viper.  2. A nickname applied to a person in the Northern States who sympathized with the South during the Civil War. [U.S.] 

COPPERISH:  Containing, or partaking of the nature of, copper; like copper; as, a copperish taste.  COPPER-NICKEL Cop"per-nick`el, n. (Min.)  Nicolite.  COPPER-NOSE Cop"per-nose, n.  A red nose. Shak. 

COPPERSMITH:  One whose occupation is to manufacture copper utensils; a worker in copper.  COPPER WORKS Cop"per works.  A place where copper is wrought or manufactured. Woodward. 

COPPERY:  Mixed with copper; containing copper, or made of copper; like copper. 

COPPICE:  A grove of small growth; a thicket of brushwood; a wood cut at certain times for fuel or other purposes. See Copse. The rate of coppice lands will fall, upon the discovery of coal mines. Locke. 

COPPIN:  A cop of thread. 

COPPLE:  Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hill rising to a point. A low cape, and upon it a copple not very high. Hakluyt.  COPPLE-CROWN Cop"ple-crown, n.  A created or high-topped crown or head. "Like the copple-crown the lapwing has." T. Randolph.  -- Cop"ple-crowned`, a. 

COPPLED:  Rising to a point; conical; copped. [Obs.] Woodward.  COPPLE DUST Cop"ple dust`.  Cupel dust. [Obs.] Powder of steel, or copple dust. Bacon. 

COPPLESTONE:  A cobblestone. [Obs.] 

COPPS:  See Copse. [Obs.] 

COPRA:  The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil is expressed. [Written also cobra, copperah, coppra.] 

COPROLITE:  A piece of petrified dung; a fossil excrement. 

COPROLITIC:  Containing, pertaining to, or of the nature of, coprolites. 

COPROPHAGAN:  A kind of beetle which feeds upon dung. 

COPROPHAGOUS:  Feeding upon dung, as certain insects.  COP-ROSE Cop-rose`, n. Etym: [F. coprose, of uncertain origin; cf. D. klaproos, klapperroos.]  The red, or corn, poppy. [Written also cup-rose.] 

COPS:  The connecting crook of a harrow. [Prov. Eng.] 

COPSE:  A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice. Near yonder copse where once the garden smiled. Goldsmith. 

COPSEWOOD:  Brushwood; coppice. Macaulay. 

COPSY:  Characterized by copses. "Copsy villages." "Copsy banks." J. Dyer. 

COPTIC:  Of or pertaining to the Copts.  -- n.  The language of the Copts.  COPTIC CHURCH Coptic Church.  The native church of Egypt or church of Alexandria, which in general organization and doctrines resembles the Roman Catholic Church, except that it holds to the Monophysitic doctrine which was condemned (a. d. 451) by the council of Chalcedon, and allows its priests to marry. The "pope and patriarch" has jurisdiction over the Abyssinian Church. Since the 7th century the Coptic Church has been so isolated from modifying influences that in many respects it is the most ancient monument of primitive Christian rites and ceremonies. But centuries of subjection to Moslem rule have weakened and degraded it. 

COPULA:  The word which unites the subject and predicate.  2. (Mus.)  The stop which connects the manuals, or the manuals with the pedals; -- called also coupler. 

COPULATE:  Joining subject and predicate; copulative. F. A. March. 

COPULATE:  To unite in sexual intercourse; to come together in the act of generation. 

COPULATIVE:  Serving to couple, unite, or connect; as, a copulative conjunction like "and". 

COPULATIVE:  A copulative conjunction. 

COPULATIVELY:  In a copulative manner. 

COPULATORY:  Used in sexual union; as, the copulatory organs of insects. 

COPY:  Manuscript or printed matter to be set up in type; as, the printers are calling for more copy.  6. A writing paper Bastard. See under Paper.  7. Copyhold; tenure; lease. [Obs.] Shak. Copy book, a book in which copies are written or printed for learners to imitate.  -- Examined copies (Law), those which have been compared with the originals.  -- Exemplified copies, those which are attested under seal of a court.  -- Certified or Office copies, those which are made or attested by officers having charge of the originals, and authorized to give copies officially. Abbot.  Syn.  -- Imitation; transcript; duplicate; counterfeit. 

COPYER:  See Copier. 

COPYGRAPH:  A contrivance for producing manifold copies of a writing or drawing.  Note: The writing or drawing is made with aniline ink on paper, and a reverse copy transferred by pressure to a slab of gelatin softened with glycerin. A large number of transcripts can be taken while the ink is fresh. Various names have been given to the process [the gelatin copying process], some of them acceptable and others absurd; hectograph, polygraph, copygraph, lithogram, etc. Knight. 

COPYHOLDER:  One possessed of land in copyhold.  2. (print.) (a) A device for holding copy for a compositor. (b) One who reads copy to a proof reader. 

COPYING:  From Copy, v. Copying ink. See under Ink.  -- Copying paper, thin unsized paper used for taking copies of letters, etc., in a copying press.  -- Copying press, a machine for taking by pressure, an exact copy of letters, etc., written in copying ink. 

COPYIST:  A copier; a transcriber; an imitator; a plagiarist. 

COPYRIGHT:  The right of an author or his assignee, under statute, to print and publish his literary or artistic work, exclusively of all other persons. This right may be had in maps, charts, engravings, plays, and musical compositions, as well as in books.  Note: In the United States a copyright runs for the term of twenty- eight years, with right of renewal for fourteen years on certain conditions. International copyright, an author's right in his productions as secured by treaty between nations. 

COPYRIGHT:  To secure a copyright on. 

COQUE:  A small loop or bow of ribbon used in making hats, boas, etc. 

COQUELICOT:  The wild poppy, or red corn rose.  2. The color of the wild poppy; a color nearly red, like orange mixed with scarlet. 

COQUET:  To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; to treat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive and disappoint. You are coquetting a maid of honor. Swift. 

COQUET:  To trifle in love; to stimulate affection or interest; to play the coquette; to deal playfully instead of seriously; to play (with); as, we have coquetted with political crime. 

COQUETRY:  Attempts to attract admoration, notice, or love, for the mere gratification of vanity; trifling in love. "Little affectations of coquetry." Addison. 

COQUETTE:  A tropical humming bird of the genus Lophornis, with very elegant neck plumes. Several species are known. See Illustration under Spangle, v. t. 

COQUETTISH:  Practicing or exhibiting coquetry; alluring; enticing. A pretty, coquettish housemaid. W. Irving. 

COQUETTISHLY:  In a coquettish manner.  COQUILLA NUT Co*quil"la nut. Etym: [Pg. coquilho, Sp. coquillo, dim. of coco a cocoanut.] (Bot.)  The fruit of a Brazilian tree (Attalea funifera of Martius.).  Note: Its shell is hazel-brown in color, very hard and close in texture, and much used by turners in forming ornamental articles, such as knobs for umbrella handles. 

COQUIMBITE:  A mineral consisting principally of sulphate of iron; white copperas; -- so called because found in the province of Coquimbo, Chili. 

COQUINA:  A soft, whitish, coral-like stone, formed of broken shells and corals, found in the southern United States, and used for roadbeds and for building material, as in the fort at St. Augustine, Florida.  COR- Cor-.  A prefix signifying with, together, etc. See Com-. 

COR:  A Hebrew measure of capacity; a homer. [Written also core.] 

CORA:  The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia to North Africa. 

CORACLE:  A boat made by covering a wicker frame with leather or oilcloth. It was used by the ancient Britons, and is still used by fisherman in Wales and some parts of Ireland. Also, a similar boat used in Thibet and in Egypt. 

CORACOID:  Pertaining to a bone of the shoulder girdle in most birds, reptiles, and amphibians, which is reduced to a process of the scapula in most mammals. 

CORACOID:  The coracoid bone or process. 

CORAGE:  See Courage [Obs.] To Canterbury with full devout corage. Chaucer. 

CORAH:  Plain; undyed; -- applied to Indian silk. -- n.  Corah silk. 

CORAL:  The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a few Hydrozoa. Similar structures are also formed by some Bryozoa.  Note: The large stony corals forming coral reefs belong to various genera of Madreporaria, and to the hydroid genus, Millepora. The red coral, used in jewelry, is the stony axis of the stem of a gorgonian (Corallium rubrum) found chiefly in the Mediterranean. The fan corals, plume corals, and sea feathers are species of Gorgoniacea, in which the axis is horny. Organ-pipe coral is formed by the genus Tubipora, an Alcyonarian, and black coral is in part the axis of species of the genus Antipathes. See Anthozoa, Madrepora.  2. The ovaries of a cooked lobster; -- so called from their color.  3. A piece of coral, usually fitted with small bells and other appurtenances, used by children as a plaything. Brain coral, or Brain stone coral. See under Brain.  -- Chain coral. See under Chain.  -- Coral animal (Zoöl.), one of the polyps by which corals are formed. They are often very erroneously called coral insects.  -- Coral fish. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Coral reefs (Phys. Geog.), reefs, often of great extent, made up chiefly of fragments of corals, coral sands, and the solid limestone resulting from their consolidation. They are classed as fringing reefs, when they border the land; barrier reefs, when separated from the shore by a broad belt of water; atolls, when they constitute separate islands, usually inclosing a lagoon. See Atoll.  -- Coral root (Bot.), a genus (Corallorhiza) of orchideous plants, of a yellowish or brownish red color, parasitic on roots of other plants, and having curious jointed or knotted roots not unlike some kinds of coral. See Illust. under Coralloid.  -- Coral snake. (Zo) (a) A small, venomous, Brazilian snake (Elaps corallinus), coral-red, with black bands. (b) A small, harmless, South American snake (Tortrix scytale).  -- Coral tree (Bot.), a tropical, leguminous plant, of several species, with showy, scarlet blossoms and coral-red seeds. The best known is Erythrina Corallodendron.  -- Coral wood, a hard, red cabinet wood. McElrath. 

CORALED:  Having coral; covered with coral.  CORAL FISH Cor"al fish`. (Zoöl.)  Any bright-colored fish of the genera Chætodon, Pomacentrus, Apogon, and related genera, which live among reef corals. 

CORALLACEOUS:  Like coral, or partaking of its qualities. 

CORALLIAN:  A deposit of coralliferous limestone forming a portion of the middle division of the oölite; -- called also coral-rag. 

CORALLIFEROUS:  Containing or producing coral. 

CORALLIFORM:  resembling coral in form. 

CORALLIGENA:  Same as Anthozoa. 

CORALLIGENOUS:  producing coral; coraligerous; coralliferous. Humble. 

CORALLIGEROUS:  Producing coral; coraliferous. 

CORALLIN:  A yellow coal-tar dyestuff which probably consists chiefly of rosolic acid. See Aurin, and Rosolic acid under Rosolic. Red corallin, a red dyestuff which is obtained by treating aurin or rosolic acid with ammonia; -- called also pæonin.  -- Yellow corallin. See Aurin. 

CORALLINE:  Composed of corallines; as, coralline limestone. 

CORALLINE:  A submarine, semicalcareous or calcareous plant, consisting of many jointed branches.  2. (Zoöl.)  Formerly any slender coral-like animal; -- sometimes applied more particulary to bryozoan corals. 

CORALLINITE:  A fossil coralline. 

CORALLITE:  A mineral substance or petrifaction, in the form of coral.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the individual members of a compound coral; or that part formed by a single coral animal. [Written also corallet.] 

CORALLOID:  Having the form of coral; branching like coral. 

CORALLOIDAL:  resembling coral; coralloid. Sir T. browne. 

CORALLUM:  The coral or skeleton of a zoöphyte, whether calcareous of horny, simple or compound. See Coral.  CORAL-RAG Cor"al-rag`, n. (geol.)  Same as Corallian. 

CORALWORT:  A cruciferous herb of certain species of Dentaria; -- called also toothwort, tooth violet, or pepper root. 

CORANACH:  A lamentation for the dead; a dirge. [Written also coranich, corrinoch, coronach, cronach, etc.] [Scot.]  CORANT; CORANTO Co*rant, Co*ran"to, n. Etym: [See Courant.]  A sprightly but somewhat stately dance, now out of fashion. It is harder to dance a corant well, than a jig. Sir W. temple. Dancing a coranto with him upon the heath. Macaulay. 

CORB:  An ornament in a building; a corbel. 

CORBE:  Crooked. [Obs.] "Corbe shoulder." Spenser. 

CORBEIL:  A sculptured basket of flowers; a corbel. [Obs.]  2. pl. (Fort.)  Small gabions. Brande & C. 

CORBEL:  A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving the spring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothic architecture.  Note: A common form of corbel consists of courses of stones or bricks, each projecting slightly beyond the next below it. 

CORBEL:  To furnish with a corbel or corbels; to support by a corbel; to make in the form of a corbel. To corbel out, to furnish with a corbel of courses, each projecting beyond the one next below it.  CORBELING; CORBELLING Cor"bel*ing, Cor"bel*ling, n.  Corbel work or the construction of corbels; a series of corbels or piece of continuous corbeled masonry, sometimes of decorative purpose, as in the stalactite ornament of the Moslems.  CORBEL-TABLE Cor"bel-ta`ble, n. (Arch.)  A horizontal row of corbels, with the panels or filling between them; also, less properly used to include the stringcourse on them.  CORBIE; CORBY Cor"bie or Cor"by, n.; pl. Corbies. Etym: [F. corbeau, OF. corbel, dim. fr. L. corvus raven.]  1. (Zoöl.)  The raven. [Scot.]  2. (her.)  A raven, crow, or chough, used as a charge. Corbie crow, the carrion crow. [Scot.] 

CORBIESTEP:  One of the steps in which a gable wall is often finished in place of a continuous slope; -- also called crowstep. 

CORCHORUS:  The common name of the kerria Japonica or Japan globeflower, a yellow-flowered, perennial, rosaceous plant, seen in old-fashioned gardens.  CORCLE; CORCULE Cor"cle, Cor"cule, n. Etym: [L. corculum a little heart, dim. of cor heart.] (Bot.)  The heart of the seed; the embryo or germ. [Obs.] 

CORD:  Any structure having the appearance of a cord, esp. a tendon or a nerve. See under Spermatic, Spinal, Umbilical, Vocal.  5. (Mus.)  See Chord. [Obs.] Cord wood, wood for fuel cut to the length of four feet (when of full measure). 

CORDAGE:  Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope or cord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes. 

CORDAL:  Same as Cordelle. 

CORDATE:  Heart-shaped; as, a cordate leaf. 

CORDATELY:  In a cordate form. 

CORDED:  Bound about, or wound, with cords. 

CORDELIER:  A Franciscan; -- so called in France from the girdle of knotted cord worn by all Franciscans.  2. (Fr. Hist.)  A member of a French political club of the time of the first Revolution, of which Danton and Marat were members, and which met in an old Cordelier convent in Paris. 

CORDELING:  Twisting. 

CORDELLE:  A twisted cord; a tassel. Halliwell. 

CORDIAL:  Any invigorating and stimulating preparation; as, a peppermint cordial.  3. (Com.)  Aromatized and sweetened spirit, used as a beverage; a liqueur. 

CORDIALIZE:  To grow cordial; to feel or express cordiality. [R.] 

CORDIALLY:  In a cordial manner. Dr. H. More. 

CORDIALNESS:  Cordiality. Cotgrave. 

CORDIERITE:  See Iolite. 

CORDIFORM:  Heart-shaped. Gray. 

CORDILLERA:  A mountain ridge or chain.  Note: Cordillera is sometimes applied, in geology, to the system of mountain chains near the border of a continent; thus, the western cordillera of North America in the United States includes the Rocky Mountains, Sierra Nevada, Coast and Cascade ranges. 

CORDINER:  A cordwainer. [Obs.] 

CORDITE:  A smokeless powder composed of nitroglycerin, guncotton, and mineral jelly, and used by the British army and in other services. In making it the ingredients are mixed into a paste with the addition of acetone and pressed out into cords  (of various diameters) resembling brown twine, which are dried and cut to length. A variety containing less nitroglycerin than the original is known  as cordite M. D. 

CORDON:  The coping of the scarp wall, which projects beyong the face of the wall a few inches.  4. (Mil.)  A line or series of sentinels, or of military posts, inclosing or guarding any place or thing.  5. A rich and ornamental lace or string, used to secure a mantle in some costumes of state. Cordon bleu (kd" bl Etym: [F., blue cordon], a first-rate cook, or one worthy to be the cook of the cordons bleus, or Knights of the Holy Ghost, famous for their good dinners.  -- Cordon sanitaire (kd" s Etym: [F., sanitary cordon], a line of troops or military posts around a district infected with disease, to cut off communication, and thus prevent the disease from spreading. 

CORDONNET:  Doubled and twisted thread, made of coarse silk, and used for tassels, fringes, etc. McElrath. 

CORDOVAN:  Same as Cordwain. in England the name is applied to leather made from horsehide. 

CORDUROY:  Trousers or breeches of corduroy. Corduroy road, a roadway formed of logs laid side by side across it, as in marshy places; -- so called from its rough or ribbed surface, resembling corduroy. [U.S.] 

CORDUROY:  To form of logs laid side by side. "Roads were corduroyed." Gemn. W.T. Sherman. 

CORDWAIN:  A term used in the Middle Ages for Spanish leather (goatskin tanned and dressed), and hence, any leather handsomely finished, colored, gilded, or the like. Buskins he wore of costliest cordwain. Spenser. 

CORDWAINER:  A worker in cordwain, or cordovan leather; a shoemaker. [Archaic.] 

CORDY:  Of, or like, cord; having cords or cordlike parts. 

CORE:  A body of individuals; an assemblage. [Obs.] He was in a core of people. Bacon. 

CORE:  A miner's underground working time or shift. Raymond.  Note: The twenty-four hours are divided into three or four cores. 

CORE:  A Hebrew dry measure; a cor or homer. Num. xi. 32 (Douay version). 

CORE:  The prtion of a mold which shapes the interior of a cylinder, tube, or other hollow casting, or which makes a hole in or through a casting; a part of the mold, made separate from and inserted in it, for shaping some part of the casting, the form of which is not determined by that of the pattern.  5. A disorder of sheep occasioned by worms in the liver. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  6. (Anat.)  The bony process which forms the central axis of the horns in many animals. Core box (Founding), a box or mold, usually divisible, in which cores are molded.  -- Core print (Founding), a projecting piece on a pattern which forms, in the mold, an impression for holding in place or steadying a core. 

CORE:  A joint regent or ruler.  CO-RELATION Co`-re*la"tion (k`r-l"shn), n.  Corresponding relation.  CO-RELIGIONIST Co`-re*li"gion*ist (-lj"n-st), n.  One of the same religion with another.  CORE LOSS Core loss. (Elec.)  Energy wasted by hysteresis or eddy currents in the core of an armature, transformer, etc. 

COREOPSIS:  A genus of herbaceous composite plants, having the achenes two- horned and remotely resembling some insect; tickseed. C. tinctoria, of the Western plains, the commonest plant of the genus, has been used in dyeing. 

COREPLASTY:  A plastic operation on the pupil, as for forming an artificial pupil. -- Cor`e*plas"tic (-plas"tik), a. 

CORER:  That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an apple corer.  CO-RESPONDENT Co`-re*spond"ent (k`rr-spnd"ent), n. (Law)  One who is called upon to answer a summons or other proceeding jointly with another. 

CORF:  A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the Mediterranean Sea. 

CORIACEOUS:  Stiff, like leather or parchment. 

CORIANDER:  An umbelliferous plant, the Coriandrum sativum, the fruit or seeds of which have a strong smell and a spicy taste, and in medicine are considered as stomachic and carminative. 

CORIDINE:  A colorless or yellowish oil, C10H15N, of a leathery odor, occuring in coal tar, Dippel's oil, tobacco smoke, etc., regarded as an organic base, homologous with pyridine. Also, one of a series of metameric compounds of which coridine is a type. [Written also corindine.] 

CORINDON:  See Corrundum. 

CORINNE:  The common gazelle (Gazella dorcas). See Gazelle. [Written also korin.] 

CORINTHIAC:  Pertaining to Corinth. 

CORINTHIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Corinthian order of architecture, invented by the Greeks, but more commonly used by the Romans. This is the lightest and most ornamental of the three orders used by the Greeks. Parker.  3. Debauched in character or practice; impure. Milton.  4. Of or pertaining to an amateur sailor or yachtsman; as, a corinthian race (one in which the contesting yachts must be manned by amateurs.) 

CORIVAL:  A rival; a corrival. 

CORIVAL:  To rival; to pretend to equal. Shak.  CORIVALRY; CORIVALSHIP Co*ri"val*ry, Co*ri"val*ship, n.  Joint rivalry. 

CORKAGE:  The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and taking care of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest. 

CORKED:  having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottle of wine is corked.  CORK FOSSIL Cork" fos`sil (krk" fs`sl). (Min.)  A variety of amianthus which is very light, like cork. 

CORKINESS:  The quality of being corky.  CORKING PIN Cork"ing pin` (krk"ng pn`).  A pin of a large size, formerly used attaching a woman's headdress to a cork mold. [Obs.] Swift. 

CORKSCREW:  An instrument with a screw or a steel spiral for drawing corks from bottles. Corkscrew starts, a spiral staircase around a solid newel. 

CORKSCREW:  To press forward in a winding way; as, to corksrew one's way through a crowd. [Colloq.] Dickens. 

CORKWING:  A fish; the goldsinny. 

CORKWOOD:  The tree producing the aligator apple. (3)  The blolly. 

CORM:  A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb.  2. (Biol.)  Same as Cormus, 2. 

CORMOGENY:  The embryological history of groups or families of individuals. 

CORMOPHYLOGENY:  The phylogeny of groups or families of individuals. Haeckel.  CORMOPHYTES; CORMOPHYTA Cor"mo*phytes (kr"m-fts), Cor*moph"y*ta (kr-mf"-t), n. pl. Etym: [NL. cormophyta, fr. Gr. trunk of a tree + (Bot.)  A term proposed by Endlicher to include all plants with an axis containing vascular tissue and with foliage. 

CORMORANT:  Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sac under the beak; the shag. Cormorants devour fish voraciously, and have become the emblem of gluttony. They are generally black, and hence are called sea ravens, and coalgeese. [Written also corvorant.]  2. A voracious eater; a glutton, or gluttonous servant. B. Jonson. 

CORMORAUT:  Ravenous; voracious. Cormorant, devouring time. Shak. 

CORMUS:  See Corm.  2. (Biol.)  A vegetable or animal made up of a number of individuals, such as, for example, would be formed by a process of budding from a parent stalk wherre the buds remain attached. 

CORN:  A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toees, by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome. Welkome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes Unplagued with corns, will have a bout with you. Shak.  Note: The substance of a corn usually resembles horn, but where moisture is present, as between the toes, it is white and sodden, and is called a soft corn. 

CORNAGE:  Anancient tenure of land, which obliged the tenant to give notice of an invasion by blowing a horn. 

CORNAMUTE:  A cornemuse. [Obs.] 

CORNBIND:  A weed that binds stalks of corn, as Convolvulus arvensis, Polygonum Convolvulus. [Prov. Eng.] 

CORNCOB:  The cob or axis on which the kernels of Indian corn grow. [U.S.] 

CORNCRAKE:  A bird (Crex crex or C. pratensis) which frequents grain fields; the European crake or land rail; -- called also corn bird. 

CORNCRIB:  A crib for storing corn. 

CORNDODGER:  A cake made of the meal of Indian corn, wrapped in a covering of husks or paper, and baked under the embers. [U.S.] Bartlett. 

CORNEA:  The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which covers the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior. See Eye. 

CORNEAL:  Pertaining to the cornea. 

CORNEL:  The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas), a European shrub with clusters of small, greenish flowers, followed by very acid but edible drupes resembling cherries.  2. Any species of the genus Cornus, as C. florida, the flowering cornel; C. stolonifera, the osier cornel; C. Canadensis, the dwarf cornel, or bunchberry. 

CORNELIAN:  Same as Carnelian. 

CORNEMUSE:  A wind instrument nearly identical with the bagpipe. Drayton. 

CORNEOCALCAREOUS:  Formed of a mixture of horny and calcareous materials, as some shells and corals.  2. Horny on one side and calcareous on the other. 

CORNEOUS:  Of a texture resembling horn; horny; hard. Sir T. Browne. 

CORNERCAP:  The chief ornament. [Obs.] Thou makest the triumviry the cornercap of society. Shak. 

CORNERED:  1 Having corners or angles.  2. In a possition of great difficulty; brought to bay. 

CORNERWISE:  With the corner in front; diagonally; not square. 

CORNET:  See Coronet, 2.  CORNET-A-PISTON Cor"net-à-pis`ton (kr"nt--ps"tn; F. kr`n`ps`tn"), n.; pl. Cornets-à- piston. Etym: [F.] (Mus.)  A brass wind instrument, like the trumpet, furnished with valves moved by small pistons or sliding rods; a cornopean; a cornet. 

CORNETCY:  The commission or rank of a cornet. 

CORNETER:  One who blows a cornet. 

CORNEULE:  One of the corneas of a compound eye in the invertebrates. Carpenter. 

CORNFIELD:  A field where corn is or has been growing; -- in England, a field of wheat, rye, barley, or oats; in America, a field of Indian corn. 

CORNFLOOR:  A thrashing floor. Hos. ix. 1. 

CORNFLOWER:  A conspicuous wild flower (Centaurea Cyanus), growing in grainfields. 

CORNIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornus florida). 

CORNICE:  Any horizontal, molded or otherwise decorated projection which crowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed; as, the cornice of an order, pedestal, door, window, or house. Gwilt. Cornice ring, the ring on a cannon next behind the muzzle ring. 

CORNICED:  Having a cornice. 

CORNICLE:  A little horn. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CORNICULAR:  A secretary or clerk. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CORNICULATE:  Having processes resembling small horns. 

CORNICULUM:  A small hornlike part or process. 

CORNIFEROUS:  Of or pertaining to the lowest period of the Devonian age.(See the Diagram, under Geology.) The Corniferous period has been so called from the numerous seams of hornstone which characterize the later part of the period, as developed in the State of New York. 

CORNIFIC:  Producing horns; forming horn. 

CORNIFICATION:  Conversion into, or formation of, horn; a becoming like horn. 

CORNIFIED:  Converted into horn; horny. 

CORNIFORM:  Having the shape of a horn; horn-shaped. 

CORNIGEROUS:  Horned; having horns; as, cornigerous animals. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

CORNIPLUME:  A hornlike tuft of feathers on the head of some birds. 

CORNISH:  Of or pertaining to Cornwall, in England. Cornish chough. See Chough.  -- Cornish engine, a single-acting pumping engine, used in mines, in Cornwall and elsewhere, and for water works. A heavy pump rod or plunger, raised by the steam, forces up the water by its weight, in descending. 

CORNISH:  The dialect, or the people, of Cornwall. 

CORNIST:  A performer on the cornet or horn. 

CORNLOFT:  A loft for corn; a granary. 

CORNMUSE:  A cornemuse.  CORNO DI BASSETTO Cor"no di bas*set"to (kr"n d bs-st"t or bs-st"t); pl. Corni (-n di basseto. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)  A tenor clarinet; -- called also basset horn, and sometimes confounded with the English horn, which is a tenor oboe.  CORNO INGLESE Cor"no In*gle"se (n-gl"z); pl. Corni Inglesi (-z. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)  A reed instrument, related to the oboe, but deeper in pitch; the English horn. 

CORNOPEAN:  An obsolete name for the cornet-à-piston. 

CORNSHELLER:  A machine that separates the kernels of corn from the cob. 

CORNSHUCK:  The husk covering an ear of Indian corn. [Colloq. U.S.] 

CORNSTALK:  A stalk of Indian corn. 

CORNSTARCH:  Starch made from Indian corn, esp. a fine white flour used for puddings, etc. 

CORNU:  A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn.  CORNU AMMONIS Cor"nu Am*mo"nis (m-m"ns); pl. Cornua Ammonis. Etym: [L., horn of Ammon. See Ammonite.] (Paleon.)  A fossil shell, curved like a ram's horn; an obsolete name for an ammonite. 

CORNUCOPIA:  A genus of grasses bearing spikes of flowers resembling the cornucopia in form.  Note: Some writers maintain that this word should be written, in the singular, cornu copiæ, and in the plural, cornua copiæ.  CORNUTE; CORNUTED Cor"nute (kr"nt or kr-nt"), Cor*nut"ed (kr-n"td), a. Etym: [L. cornutus horned, from cornu horn.]  1. Bearing horns; horned; horn-shaped.  2. Cuckolded. [R.] "My being cornuted." LEstrange. 

CORNUTE:  To bestow horns upon; to make a cuckold of; to cuckold. [Obs.] Burton. 

CORNUTO:  A man that wears the horns; a cuckold. [R.] Shak. 

CORNUTOR:  A cuckold maker. [R.] Jordan. 

CORNY:  Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn. Up stood the cornu reed. Milton. 

COROCORE:  A kind of boat of various forms, used in the Indian Archipelago. 

CORODY:  An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey or other religious house for the sustenance of such of the king's servants as he may designate to receive it. [Written also corrody.] 

COROL:  A corolla. 

COROLLA:  The inner envelope of a flower; the part which surrounds the organs of fructification, consisting of one or more leaves, called petals. It is usually distinguished from the calyx by the fineness of its texture and the gayness of its colors. See the Note under Blossom. 

COROLLACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a corolla; having the form or texture of a corolla. 

COROLLARY:  Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla. 

COROLLET:  A floret in an aggregate flower. [Obs.] Martyn.  COROLLIFLORAL; COROLLIFLOROUS Co*rol`li*flo"ral (k-rl`l-fl"ral), Co*rol`li*flo"rous (-fl"rs), a. Etym: [Corolla + L. flos, floris, flower.] (Bot.)  Having the stamens borne on the petals, and the latter free from the calyx. Compare Calycifloral and Thalamifloral. 

COROLLINE:  Of or pertaining to a corolla. 

COROMANDEL:  The west coast, or a portion of the west coast, of the Bay of Bengal. Coromandel gooseberry. See Carambola.  -- Coromandel wood, Calamander wood. 

CORONA:  The projecting part of a Classic cornice, the under side of which is cut with a recess or channel so as to form a drip. See Illust. of Column.  3. (Anat.)  The upper surface of some part, as of a tooth or the skull; a crown.  4. (Zoöl.)  The shelly skeleton of a sea urchin.  5. (Astrol.)  A peculiar luminous apearance, or aureola, which surrounds the sun, and which is seen only when the sun is totally eclipsed by the moon.  6. (Bot.) (a) An inner appendage to a petal or a corolla, often forming a special cup, as in the daffodil and jonquil. (b) Any crownlike appendage at the top of an organ.  7. (Meteorol.) (a) A circle, usually colored, seen in peculiar states of the atmosphere around and close to a luminous body, as the sun or moon. (b) A peculiar phase of the aurora borealis, formed by the concentration or convergence of luminous beams around the point in the heavens indicated by the direction of the dipping needle.  8. A crown or circlet suspended from the roof or vaulting of churches, to hold tapers lighted on solemn occasions. It is sometimes formed of double or triple circlets, arranged pyramidically. Called also corona lucis. Fairholt.  9. (Mus.)  A character [] called the pause or hold. 

CORONACH:  See Coranach. 

CORONAL:  Of or pertaining to the shell of a sea urchin. Coronal suture (Anat.), a suture extending across the skull between the parietal and frontal bones; the frontoparietal suture. 

CORONAMEN:  The upper margin of a hoof; a coronet. 

CORONARY:  Resembling, or situated like, a crown or circlet; as, the coronary arteries and veins of the heart. 

CORONARY:  A small bone in the foot of a horse.  CORONARY BONE Cor"o*na*ry bone.  The small pastern bone of the horse and allied animals.  CORONARY CUSHION Coronary cushion.  A cushionlike band of vascular tissue at the upper border of the wall of the hoof of the horse and allied animals. It takes an important part in the secretion of the horny walls.  CORONATE; CORONATED Cor"o*nate (kr"-nt), Cor"o*na`ted (-n`ted), a. Etym: [L. coronatus, p. p. of coronare to crown, fr. corona. See Crown.]  1. Having or wearing a crown.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) Having the coronal feathers lengthened or otherwise distinguished; -- said of birds. (b) Girt about the spire with a row of tubercles or spines; -- said of spiral shells.  3. (Biol.)  Having a crest or a crownlike appendage. 

CORONEL:  A colonel. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CORONEL:  The iron head of a tilting spear, divided into two, three, or four blunt points. [Written also cronel.] Grose. 

CORONER:  An officer of the peace whose principal duty is to inquire, with the help of a jury, into the cause of any violent, sudden or mysterious death, or death in prison, usually on sight of the body and at the place where the death occurred. [In England formerly also written and pronounced crowner.]  Note: In some of the United States the office of coroner is abolished, that of medical examiner taking its place. Coroner's inquest. See under Inquest. 

CORONET:  The upper part of a horse's hoof, where the horn terminates in skin. James White.  3. (Anc. Armor)  The iron head of a tilting spear; a coronel. Crose. 

CORONETED:  Wearing, or entitled to wear, a coronet; of noble birth or rank. 

CORONIFORM:  Having the form of a crown or coronet; resembling a crown. 

CORONILLA:  A genus of plants related to the clover, having their flowers arranged in little heads or tufts resembling coronets. 

CORONIUM:  The principal gaseous substance forming the solar corona, characterized by a green line in the coronal spectrum. 

CORONOID:  Resembling the beak of a crow; as, the coronoid process of the jaw, or of the ulna. 

CORONULE:  A coronet or little crown of a seed; the downy tuft on seeds. See Pappus. Martyn. 

COROUN:  Crown. [Obs.] Chaucer.  COROZO; COROSSO Co*ro"zo Co*ros"so (k-r"th or -s), n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. cerozo a kind of palm tree.]  The name in Central America for the seed of a true palm; also, a commercial name for the true ivory nut. See Ivory nut. 

CORPORACE:  See Corporas. 

CORPORAL:  A noncommissioned officer, next below a sergeant. In the United States army he is the lowest noncomissioned officer in a company of infantry. He places and relieves sentinels. Corporal's guard, a detachment such as would be in charge of a corporal for guard duty, etc.; hence, derisively, a very small number of persons.  -- Lance corporal, an assistant corporal on private's pay. Farrow.  -- Ship's corporal (Naut.), a petty officer who assists the master at arms in his various duties. 

CORPORAL:  A fine linen cloth, on which the sacred elements are consecrated in the eucharist, or with which they are covered; a communion cloth. Corporal oath, a solemn oath; -- so called from the fact that it was the ancient usage for the party taking it to touch the corporal, or cloth that covered the consecrated elements. 

CORPORALLY:  In or with the body; bodily; as, to be corporally present. Sharp. 

CORPORALSHIP:  A corporal's office. 

CORPORAS:  The corporal, or communion cloth. [Obs.] Fuller. 

CORPORATE:  To incorporate. [Obs.] Stow. 

CORPORATE:  To become incorporated. [Obs.] 

CORPORATION:  A body politic or corporate, formed and authorized by law to act as a single person, and endowed by law with the capacity of succession; a society having the capacity of transacting business as an individual.  Note: Corporations are aggregate or sole. Corporations aggregate consist of two or more persons united in a society, which is preserved by a succession of members, either forever or till the corporation is dissolved by the power that formed it, by the death of all its members, by surrender of its charter or franchises, or by forfeiture. Such corporations are the mayor and aldermen of cities, the head and fellows of a college, the dean and chapter of a cathedral church, the stockholders of a bank or insurance company, etc. A corporation sole consists of a single person, who is made a body corporate and politic, in order to give him some legal capacities, and especially that of succession, which as a natural person he can not have. Kings, bishops, deans, parsons, and vicars, are in England sole corporations. A fee will not pass to a corporation sole without the word "successors" in the grant. There are instances in the United States of a minister of a parish seized of parsonage lands in the right of his parish, being a corporation sole, as in Massachusetts. Corporations are sometimes classified as public and private; public being convertible with municipal, and private corporations being all corporations not municipal. Close corporation. See under Close. 

CORPORATOR:  A member of a corporation, esp. one of the original members. 

CORPORATURE:  The state of being embodied; bodily existence. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

CORPOREAL:  Having a body; consisting of, or pertaining to, a material body or substance; material; -- opposed to spiritual or immaterial. His omnipotence That to corporeal substance could add Speed almost spiritual. Milton. Corporeal property, such as may be seen and handled (as opposed to incorporeal, which can not be seen or handled, and exists only in contemplation). Mozley & W.  Syn.  -- Corporal; bodily. See Corporal. 

CORPOREALISM:  Materialism. Cudworth. 

CORPOREALIST:  One who denies the reality of spiritual existences; a materialist. Some corporealists pretended . . . to make a world without a God. Bp. Berkeley. 

CORPOREALITY:  The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence. 

CORPOREALLY:  In the body; in a bodily form or manner. 

CORPOREALNESS:  Corporeality; corporeity. 

CORPOREITY:  The state of having a body; the state of being corporeal; materiality. The one attributed corporeity to God. Bp. Stillingfleet. Those who deny light to be matter, do not therefore deny its corporeity. Coleridge. 

CORPORIFY:  To embody; to form into a body. [Obs.] Boyle. 

CORPOSANT:  St. Elmo's fire. See under Saint. 

CORPS:  The land with which a prebend or other ecclesiastical office is endowed. [Obs.] The prebendaries over and above their reserved rents have a corps. Bacon. Army corps, or (French) Corps d'armée (k, a body containing two or more divisions of a large army, organized as a complete army in itself.  -- Corps de logis (ke l Etym: [F., body of the house], the principal mass of a building, considered apart from its wings.  -- Corps diplomatique (k Etym: [F., diplomatic body], the body of ministers or envoys accredited to a government. 

CORPULENTLY:  In a corpulent manner. 

CORPUS:  A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing. Corpus callosum (k; pl. Corpora callosa (-s Etym: [NL., callous body] (Anat.), the great band of commissural fibers uniting the cerebral hemispheries. See Brain.  -- Corpus Christi (kr Etym: [L., body of Christ] (R. C. Ch.), a festival in honor of the eucharist, observed on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday.  -- Corpus Christi cloth. Same as Pyx cloth, under Pyx.  -- Corpus delicti (d Etym: [L., the body of the crime] (Law), the substantial and fundamental fact of the comission of a crime; the proofs essential to establish a crime.  -- Corpus luteum (l; pl. Corpora lutea (-. Etym: [NL., luteous body] (Anat.), the reddish yellow mass which fills a ruptured Grafian follicle in the mammalian ovary.  -- Corpus striatum (str; pl. Corpora striata (-t. Etym: [NL., striate body] (Anat.), a ridge in the wall of each lateral ventricle of the brain. 

CORPUSCLE:  A protoplasmic animal cell; esp., such as float free, like blood, lymph, and pus corpuscles; or such as are imbedded in an intercellular matrix, like connective tissue and cartilage corpuscles. See Blood. Virchow showed that the corpuscles of bone are homologous with those of connective tissue. Quain's Anat. Red blood corpuscles (Physiol.), in man, yellowish, biconcave, circular discs varying from 1/3500 to 1/3200 of an inch in diameter and about 1/12400 of an inch thick. They are composed of a colorless stroma filled in with semifluid hæmoglobin and other matters. In most mammals the red corpuscles are circular, but in the camels, birds, reptiles, and the lower vertebrates generally, they are oval, and sometimes more or less spherical in form. In Amphioxus, and most invertebrates, the blood corpuscles are all white or colorless.  -- White blood corpuscles (Physiol.), rounded, slightly flattened, nucleated cells, mainly protoplasmic in composition, and possessed of contractile power. In man, the average size is about 1/2500 of an inch, and they are present in blood in much smaller numbers than the red corpuscles. 

CORPUSCULAR:  Pertaining to, or composed of, corpuscles, or small particles. Corpuscular philosophy, that which attempts to account for the phenomena of nature, by the motion, figure, rest, position, etc., of the minute particles of matter.  -- Corpuscular theory (Opt.), the theory enunciated by Sir Isaac Newton, that light consists in the emission and rapid progression of minute particles or corpuscles. The theory is now generally rejected, and supplanted by the undulatory theory. 

CORPUSCULARIAN:  Corpuscular. [Obs.] 

CORPUSCULARIAN:  An adherent of the corpuscular philosophy. Bentley. 

CORPUSCULE:  A corpuscle. [Obs.] 

CORPUSCULOUS:  Corpuscular. Tyndall. 

CORRADE:  To erode, as the bed of a stream. See Corrosion. 

CORRADIAL:  Radiating to or from the same point. [R.] Coleridge. 

CORRADIATE:  To converge to one point or focus, as light or rays. 

CORRADIATION:  A conjunction or concentration of rays in one point. Bacom 

CORRAL:  A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, by emigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of security for horses, cattle, etc. 

CORRAL:  To surround and inclose; to coop up; to put into an inclosed space; -- primarily used with reference to securing horses and cattle in an inclosure of wagons while traversing the plains, but in the Southwestern United States now colloquially applied to the capturing, securing, or penning of anything. Bartlett. 

CORRASION:  The erosion of the bed of a stream by running water, principally by attrition of the detritus carried along by the stream, but also by the solvent action of the water. 

CORRASIVE:  Corrosive. [Obs.] Corrasive sores which eat into the flesh. Holland. 

CORRECT:  Set right, or made straight; hence, conformable to truth, rectitude, or propriety, or to a just standard; nnot faulty or imperfect; free from error; as, correct behavior; correct views. Always use the most correct editions. Felton.  Syn.  -- Accurate; right, exact; precise; regular; faultless. See Accurate. 

CORRECT:  Capable of being corrected. 

CORRECTIFY:  To correct. [Obs.] When your worship's plassed to correctify a lady. Beau & Fl. 

CORRECTIONAL:  Tending to, or intended for, correction; used for correction; as, a correctional institution. 

CORRECTIONER:  One who is, or who has been, in the house of correction. [Obs.] Shak. 

CORRECTLY:  In a correct manner; exactly; acurately; without fault or error. 

CORRECTNESS:  The state or quality of being correct; as, the correctness of opinions or of manners; correctness of taste; correctness in writing or speaking; the correctness of a text or copy.  Syn.  -- Accuracy; exactness; precision; propriety. 

CORRECTOR:  One who, or that which, corrects; as, a corrector of abuses; a corrector of the press; an alkali is a corrector of acids. 

CORRECTORY:  Containing or making correction; corrective. 

CORRECTRESS:  A woman who corrects. 

CORREGIDOR:  The chief magistrate of a Spanish town. 

CORREI:  A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies. "Fleet foot on the correi." Sir W. Scott. 

CORRELATABLE:  Such as can be correlated; as, correlatable phenomena. 

CORRELATE:  To have reciprocal or mutual relations; to be mutually related. Doctrine and worship correlate as theory and practice. Tylor. 

CORRELATE:  To put in relation with each other; to connect together by the disclosure of a mutual relation; as, to correlate natural phenomens. Darwin. 

CORRELATE:  One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation to something else, as father to son; a correlative. South. 

CORRELATION:  Reciprocal relation; corresponding similarity or parallelism of relation or law; capacity of being converted into, or of giving place to, one another, under certain conditions; as, the correlation of forces, or of zymotic diseases. Correlation of energy, the relation to one another of different forms of energy; -- usually having some reference to the principle of conservation of energy. See Conservation of energy, under Conservation.  -- Correlation of forces, the relation between the forces which matter, endowed with various forms of energy, may exert. 

CORRELATIVE:  Having or indicating a reciprocal relation. Father and son, prince and subject, stranger and citizen, are correlative terms. Hume. 

CORRELATIVE:  The antecedent of a pronoun. 

CORRELATIVELY:  In a correlative relation. 

CORRELATIVENESS:  Quality of being correlative. 

CORRELIGIONIST:  A co-religion 

CORREPTION:  Chiding; reproof; reproach. [Obs.] Angry, passionate correption being rather apt to provoke, than to amend. Hammond. 

CORRESPONDENCE:  A school that teaches by correspondence, the instruction being based on printed instruction sheets and the recitation papers written by the student in answer to the questions or requirements of these sheets. In the broadest sense of the term correspondence school may be used to include any educational institution or department for instruction by correspondence, as in a university or other educational bodies, but the term is commonly applied to various educational institutions organized on a commercial basis, some of which offer a large variety of courses in general and technical subjects, conducted by specialists. 

CORRESPONDENCY:  Same as Correspondence, 3. The correspondencies of types and antitypes . . . may be very reasonable confirmations. S. Clarke. 

CORRESPONDENT:  Suitable; adapted; fit; corresponding; congruous; conformable; in accord or agreement; obedient; willing. Action correspondent or repugnant unto the law. Hooker. As fast the correspondent passions rise. Thomson. I will be correspondent to command. Shak. 

CORRESPONDENT:  One who carries on commercial intercourse by letter or telegram with a person or firm at a distance. 

CORRESPONDENTLY:  In a a corresponding manner; conformably; suitably. 

CORRESPONDINGLY:  In a corresponding manner; conformably. 

CORRESPONSIVE:  Corresponding; conformable; adapted. Shak.  -- Cor`re*spon"sive*ly, adv. 

CORRIDOR:  A gallery or passageway leading to several apartments of a house.  2. (Fort.)  The covered way lying round the whole compass of the fortifications of a place. [R.]  CORRIDOR TRAIN Cor"ri*dor train.  A train whose coaches are connected so as to have through its entire length a continuous corridor, into which the compartments open. [Eng.] 

CORRIE:  Same as Correi. [Scot.] Geikie. 

CORRIGENDUM:  A fault or error to be corrected. 

CORRIGENT:  A substance added to a medicine to mollify or modify its action. Dunglison. 

CORRIGIBILITY:  Quality of being corrigible; capability of being corrected; corrigibleness. 

CORRIGIBLENESS:  The state or quality of being corrigible; corrigibility. 

CORRIVAL:  A fellow rival; a competitor; a rival; also, a companion. [R.] Shak. 

CORRIVAL:  Having rivaling claims; emulous; in rivalry. [R.] Bp. Fleetwood. 

CORRIVAL:  To compete with; to rival. [R.] 

CORRIVALRY:  Corivalry. [R.] 

CORRIVALSHIP:  Corivalry. [R.] By the corrivalship of Shager his false friend. Sir T. Herbert. 

CORRIVATE:  To cause to flow together, as water drawn from several streams. [Obs.] Burton. 

CORRIVATION:  The flowing of different streams into one. [Obs.] Burton. 

CORROBORANT:  Strengthening; supporting; corroborating. Bacon.  -- n.  Anything which gives strength or support; a tonic. The brain, with its proper corroborants, especially with sweet odors and with music. Southey. 

CORROBORATE:  Corroborated. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CORROBORATIVE:  Tending to strengthen of confirm. 

CORROBORATIVE:  A medicine that strengthens; a corroborant. Wiseman. 

CORROBORATORY:  Tending to strengthen; corroborative; as, corroboratory facts. 

CORROBORY:  See Corroboree. 

CORRODE:  To have corrosive action; to be subject to corrosion. Corroding lead, lead sufficiently pure to be used in making white lead by a process of corroding.  Syn.  -- To canker; gnaw; rust; waste; wear away. 

CORRODENT:  Corrosive. [R.] Bp. King. 

CORRODENT:  Anything that corrodes. Bp. King. 

CORRODIATE:  To eat away by degrees; to corrode. [Obs.] Sandys. 

CORRODIBILITY:  The qualityof being corrodible. [R.] Johnson. 

CORRODIBLE:  Capable of being corroded; corrosible. Sir T. Browne. 

CORROSIBILITY:  Corrodibility. "Corrosibility . . . answers corrosiveness." Boyle. 

CORROSIBLE:  Corrodible. Bailey. 

CORROSIBLENESS:  The quality or state of being corrosible. Bailey. 

CORROSION:  The action or effect of corrosive agents, or the process of corrosive change; as, the rusting of iron is a variety of corrosion. Corrosion is a particular species of dissolution of bodies, either by an acid or a saline menstruum. John Quincy. 

CORROVAL:  A dark brown substance of vegetable origin, allied to curare, and used by the natives of New Granada as an arrow poison. 

CORROVALINE:  A poisonous alkaloid extracted from corroval, and characterized by its immediate action in paralyzing the heart. 

CORRUGANT:  Having the power of contracting into wrinkles. Johnson. 

CORRUGATE:  Wrinkled; crumpled; furrowed; contracted into ridges and furrows. 

CORRUGATE:  To form or shape into wrinkles or folds, or alternate ridges and grooves, as by drawing, contraction, pressure, bending, or otherwise; to wrinkle; to purse up; as, to corrugate plates of iron; to corrugate the forehead. Corrugated iron, sheet iron bent into a series of alternate ridges and grooves in parallel lines, giving it greater stiffness.  -- Corrugated paper, a thick, coarse paper corrugated in order to give it elasticity. It is used as a wrapping material for fragile articles, as bottles. 

CORRUGATION:  The act corrugating; contraction into wrinkles or alternate ridges and grooves. 

CORRUGATOR:  A muscle which contracts the skin of the forehead into wrinkles. 

CORRUGENT:  Drawing together; contracting; -- said of the corrugator. [Obs.] 

CORRUMP:  To corrupt. See Corrupt. [Obs.] Chauser. 

CORRUMPABLE:  Corruptible. [Obs.] 

CORRUPTER:  One who corrupts; one who vitiates or taints; as, a corrupter of morals. 

CORRUPTFUL:  Tending to corrupt; full of corruption. [Obs.] "Corruptful bribes." Spenser. 

CORRUPTIBILITY:  The quality of being corruptible; the possibility or liability of being corrupted; corruptibleness. Burke. 

CORRUPTIBLE:  That which may decay and perish; the human body. [Archaic] 1 Cor. xv. 53. 

CORRUPTINGLY:  In a manner that corrupts. 

CORRUPTIONIST:  One who corrupts, or who upholds corruption. Sydney Smith. 

CORRUPTIVE:  Having the quality of taining or vitiating; tending to produce corruption. It should be endued with some corruptive quality for so speedy a dissolution of the meat. Ray. 

CORRUPTLESS:  Not susceptible of corruption or decay; incorruptible. Dryden. 

CORRUPTLY:  In a corrupt manner; by means of corruption or corrupting influences; wronfully. 

CORRUPTNESS:  The quality of being corrupt. 

CORRUPTRESS:  A woman who corrupts. Thou studied old corruptress. Beau & Fl. 

CORSAC:  The corsak. 

CORSAGE:  The waist or bodice of a lady's dress; as. a low corsage. 

CORSAK:  A small foxlike mammal (Cynalopex corsac), found in Central Asia. [Written also corsac.] 

CORSELET:  The thorax of an insect. 

CORSEPRESENT:  An offering made to the church at the interment of a dead body. Blackstone. 

CORSET:  To inclose in corsets. 

CORSLET:  A corselet. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 

CORSNED:  The morsel of execration; a species of ordeal consisting in the eating of a piece of bread consecrated by imprecation. If the suspected person ate it freely, he was pronounced innocent; but if it stuck in his throat, it was considered as a proof of his guilt. Burril. 

CORTEGE:  A train of attendants; a procession. 

CORTES:  The legislative assembly, composed of nobility, clergy, and representatives of cities, which in Spain and in Portugal answers, in some measure, to the Parliament of Great Britain.  CORTES GERAES Cor"tes Ge*ra"es. [Pg.]  See Legislature, Portugal. 

CORTEX:  Bark; rind; specifically, cinchona bark.  3. (Anat.)  The outer or superficial part of an organ; as, the cortex or gray exterior substance of the brain. 

CORTICAL:  Belonging to, or consisting of, bark or rind; resembling bark or rind; external; outer; superficial; as, the cortical substance of the kidney.  CORTICATE; CORTICATED Cor"ti*cate (kr"t-kt), Cor"ti*ca`ted (-k`td), a. Etym: [L. corticatus.]  Having a special outer covering of a nature unlike the interior part. 

CORTICIFER:  One of the Gorgoniacea; -- so called because the fleshy part surrounds a solid axis, like a bark. 

CORTICIFEROUS:  Having a barklike c 

CORTICIFORM:  Resembling, or having the form of, bark or rind. 

CORTICINE:  A material for carpeting or floor covering, made of ground cork and caoutchouc or India rubber. 

CORTICOSE:  Abounding in bark; resembling bark; barky. 

CORTICOUS:  Relating to, or resembling, bark; corticose. 

CORTILE:  An open internal courtyard inclosed by the walls of a large dwelling house or other large and stately building. 

CORUNDUM:  The earth alumina, as found native in a crystalline state, including sapphire, which is the fine blue variety; the oriental ruby, or red sapphire; the oriental amethyst, or purple sapphire; and adamantine spar, the hair-brown variety. It is the hardest substance found native, next to the diamond.  Note: The name corundum is sometimes restricted to the non- transparent or coarser kinds. Emery is a dark-colored granular variety, usually admixed with magnetic iron ore. 

CORUSCANT:  Glittering in flashes; flashing. Howell. 

CORUSCATE:  To glitter in flashes; to flash.  Syn.  -- To glisten; gleam; sparkle; radiate. 

CORVE:  See Corf. 

CORVEE:  An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair of roads, for the lord or sovereign. 

CORVEN:  p. p. of Carve. Chaucer.  CORVET; CORVETTE Cor"vet (kr"vt), Cor*vette" (kr-vr"), n. Etym: [F. corvette, fr. Pg. corveta or Sp. corbeta, fr. L. corbita a slow-sailing ship of burden, fr, corbis basket. Cf. Corbeil.] (Naut.)  A war vessel, ranking next below a frigate, and having usually only one tier of guns; -- called in the United States navy a sloop of war. 

CORVETTO:  A curvet. Peacham. 

CORVINE:  Of or pertaining to the crow; crowlike. 

CORVORANT:  See Cormorant. 

CORYBANT:  One of the priests of Cybele in Phrygia. The rites of the Corybants were accompanied by wild music, dancing, etc. 

CORYBANTIASM:  A kind of frenzy in which the patient is tormented by fantastic visions and want of sleep. Dunglison. 

CORYBANTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Corybantes or their rites; frantic; frenzied; as, a corybantic dance. 

CORYMBED:  Corymbose. 

CORYMBIFEROUS:  Bearing corymbs of flowers or fruit. 

CORYMBOSE:  Consisting of corymbs, or resembling them in form. [Written also corymbous.] 

CORYMBOSELY:  In corymbs. 

CORYPHAENOID:  Belonging to, or like, the genus Coryphæna. See Dolphin. 

CORYPHEE:  A ballet dancer. 

CORYPHENE:  A fish of the genus Coryphæna. See Dolphin. (2) 

CORYPHEUS:  The conductor, chief, or leader of the dramatic chorus; hence, the chief or leader of a party or interest. That noted corypheus [Dr. John Owen] of the Independent faction. South. 

CORYPHODON:  A genus of extinct mammals from the eocene tertiary of Europe and America. Its species varied in size between the tapir and rhinoceros, and were allied to those animals, but had short, plantigrade, five-toed feet, like the elephant. 

CORYPHODONT:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Coryphodon. 

CORYZA:  Nasal catarrh. 

COSCINOMANCY:  Divination by means of a suspended sieve. 

COSCOROBA:  A large, white, South American duck, of the genus Cascoroba, resembling a swan. 

COSECANT:  The secant of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions. 

COSEN:  See Cozen. 

COSENAGE:  See Cozenage. 

COSENING:  Anything done deceitfully, and which could not be properly designated by any special name, whether belonging to contracts or not. Burrill. 

COSENTIENT:  Perceiving together. 

COSEY:  See Cozy. Dickens. 

COSHER:  To levy certain exactions or tribute upon; to lodge and eat at the expense of. See Coshering.  2. To treat with hospitality; to pet. [Ireland] 

COSHERER:  One who coshers. 

COSHERING:  A feudal prerogative of the lord of the soil entitling him to lodging and food at his tenant's house. Burrill. Sometimes he contrived, in deflance of the law, to live by coshering, that is to say, by quartering himself on the old tentants of his family, who, wretched as was their own condition, could not refuse a portion of their pittance to one whom they still regarded as their rightful lord. Macaulay. 

COSIER:  A tailor who botches his work. [Obs.] Shak. 

COSIGNIFICATIVE:  Having the same signification. Cockerham. 

COSIGNITARY:  Signing some important public document with another or with others; as, a treaty violated by one of the cosignitary powers. 

COSIGNITARY:  One who signs a treaty or public document along with others or another; as, the cosignitaries of the treaty of Berlin. 

COSILY:  See Cozily. 

COSINE:  The sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.  COSMETIC; COSMETICAL Cos*met"ic (kz-mt"k), Cos*met"ic*al (--kal), a. Etym: [Gr. kosmitiko`s skilled in decorating, fr. ko`smos order, ornament: cf. F. cosmétique. See Cosmos.]  Imparting or improving beauty, particularly the beauty of the complexion; as, a cosmetical preparation. First, robed in white, the nymph intent adores, With head uncovered, the cosmetic powers. Pope. 

COSMETIC:  Any external application intended to beautify and improve the complexion.  COSMIC; COSMICAL Cos"mic (kz"mk), Cos"mic*al (-m-kal), a. Etym: [Gr. kosmiko`s of the world, fr. ko`smos: cf. F. cosmique. See Cosmos.]  1. Pertaining to the universe, and having special reference to universal law or order, or to the one grand harmonious system of things; hence; harmonious; orderly.  2. Pertaining to the solar system as a whole, and not to the earth alone.  3. Characteristic of the cosmos or universe; inconceivably great; vast; as, cosmic speed. "Cosmic ranges of time." Tyndall.  4. (Astron.)  Rising or setting with the sun; -- the opposite of acronycal. 

COSMICALLY:  Belonging to cosmogony. B. Powell. Gladstone. 

COSMOGONIST:  One who treats of the origin of the universe; one versed in cosmogony. 

COSMOGONY:  The creation of the world or universe; a theory or account of such creation; as, the poetical cosmogony of Hesoid; the cosmogonies of Thales, Anaxagoras, and Plato. The cosmogony or creation of the world has puzzled philosophers of all ages. Goldsmith. 

COSMOGRAPHER:  One who describes the world or universe, including the heavens and the earth. The name of this island is nowhere found among the old and ancient cosmographers. Robynson (More's Utopia).  COSMOGRAPHIC; COSMOGRAPHICAL Cos`mo*graph"ic (kz`m-grf"k), Cos`mo*graph"ic*al (--kal), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cosmographique.]  Of or pertaining to cosmography. 

COSMOGRAPHICALLY:  In a cosmographic manner; in accordance with cosmography. 

COSMOGRAPHY:  A description of the world or of the universe; or the science which teaches the constitution of the whole system of worlds, or the figure, disposition, and relation of all its parts. 

COSMOLABE:  An instrument resembling the astrolabe, formerly used for measuring the angles between heavenly bodies; -- called also pantacosm. 

COSMOLATRY:  Worship paid to the world. Cudworth. 

COSMOLINE:  A substance obtained from the residues of the distillation of petroleum, essentially the same as vaseline, but of somewhat stiffer consistency, and consisting of a mixture of the higher paraffines; a kind of petroleum jelly. 

COSMOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to cosmology. 

COSMOLOGIST:  One who describes the universe; one skilled in cosmology. 

COSMOLOGY:  The science of the world or universe; or a treatise relating to the structure and parts of the system of creation, the elements of bodies, the modifications of material things, the laws of motion, and the order and course of nature. 

COSMOMETRY:  The art of measuring the world or the universe. Blount. 

COSMOPLASTIC:  Pertaining to a plastic force as operative in the formation of the world independently of God; world-forming. "Cosmoplastic and hylozoic atheisms." Gudworth.  COSMOPOLITAN; COSMOPOLITE Cos`mo*pol"i*tan (-pl"-tan), Cos*mop"o*lite (kz-mp"-lt), n. Etym: [Gr. cosmopolitain, cosmopolite.]  One who has no fixed residence, or who is at home in every place; a citizen of the world.  COSMOPOLITAN; COSMOPOLITE Cos`mo*pol"i*tan, Cos*mop"o*lite, a.  1. Having no fixed residence; at home in any place; free from local attachments or prejudices; not provincial; liberal. In other countries taste is perphaps too exclusively national, in Germany it is certainly too cosmopolite. Sir W. Hamilton.  2. Common everywhere; widely spread; found in all parts of the world. The Cheiroptera are cosmopolitan. R. Owen. 

COSMOPOLITANISM:  The quality of being cosmopolitan; cosmopolitism. 

COSMOPOLITE:  See Cosmopolitan. 

COSMOPOLITICAL:  Having the character of a cosmopolite. [R.] Hackluyt. 

COSMOPOLITISM:  The condition or character of a cosmopolite; disregard of national or local peculiarities and prejudices. 

COSMORAMA:  An exhibition in which a series of views in various parts of the world is seen reflected by mirrors through a series of lenses, with such illumination, etc., as will make the views most closely represent reality. 

COSMORAMIC:  Of or pertaining to a cosmorama. 

COSMOSPHERE:  An apparattus for showing the position of the earth, at any given time, with respect to the fixed stars. It consist of a hollow glass globe, on which are depicted the stars and constellations, and within which is a terrestrial globe. 

COSMOTHEISM:  Same as Pantheism. [R.] 

COSMOTHETIC:  Assuming or positing the actual existence or reality of the physical or external world. Cosmothetic idealists (Metaph.), those who assume, without attempting to prove, the reality of external objects as corresponding to, and being the ground of, the ideas of which only the mind has direct cognizance. The cosmothetic idealists . . . deny that mind is immediately conscious of matter. Sir W. Hamilton. 

COSOVEREIGN:  A joint sovereign. 

COSS:  A Hindoo measure of distance, varying from one and a half to two English miles. Whitworth. 

COSS:  A thing (only in phrase below). Rule of Coss, an old name for Algebra. Etym: [It. regola di cosa rule of thing, the unknown quantity being called the cosa, or the thing.] 

COSSACK:  One of a warlike, pastoral people, skillful as horsemen, inhabiting different parts of the Russian empire and furnishing valuable contingents of irregular cavalry to its armies, those of Little Russia and those of the Don forming the principal divisions.  COSSACK POST Cos"sack post. (Mil.)  An outpost consisting of four men, forming one of a single line of posts substituted for the more formal line of sentinels and line of pickets. 

COSSAS:  Plain India muslin, of various qualities and widths. 

COSSET:  A lamb reared without the aid of the dam. Hence: A pet, in general. 

COSSET:  To treat as a pet; to fondle. She was cosseted and posseted and prayed over and made much of. O. W. Holmes. 

COSSETTE:  One of the small chips or slices into which beets are cut in sugar making.  COSSIC; COSSICAL Cos"sic (ks"sk), Cos"sic*al (-s-kal), a. Etym: [It. cossico. See 2d Coss.]  Of or relating to algebra; as, cossic numbers, or the cossic art. [Obs.] "Art of numbers cossical." Digges (1579). 

COST:  See Cottise. 

COST:  Expenses incurred in litigation.  Note: Costs in actions or suits are either between attorney and client, being what are payable in every case to the attorney or counsel by his client whether he ultimately succeed or not, or between party and party, being those which the law gives, or the court in its discretion decrees, to the prevailing, against the losing, party. Bill of costs. See under Bill.  -- Cost free, without outlay or expense. "Her duties being to talk French, and her privileges to live cost free and to gather scraps of knowledge." Thackeray. 

COSTA:  A rib of an animal or a human being.  2. (Bot.)  A rib or vein of a leaf, especially the midrib.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) The anterior rib in the wing of an insect. (b) One of the riblike longitudinal ridges on the exterior of many corals. 

COSTAGE:  Expense; cost. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COSTAL:  Pertaining to the ribs or the sides of the body; as, costal nerves.  2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Relating to a costa, or rib. Costal cartilage. See Cartilage, and Illust. of Thorax.  COSTAL-NERVED Cos"tal-nerved` (ks"tal-nrvd`), a. (Bot.)  Having the nerves spring from the midrib. 

COSTARDMONGER:  A costermonger.  COSTATE; COSTATED Cos"tate (ks"tt), Cos"ta*ted (-t-td), a. Etym: [L. costatus, fr. costa rib.]  Having ribs, or the appearance of ribs; (Bot.) having one or more longitudinal ribs. 

COSTEAN:  To search after lodes. See Costeaning. 

COSTEANING:  The process by which miners seek to discover metallic lodes. It consist in sinking small pits through the superficial deposits to the solid rock, and then driving from one pit to another across the direction of the vein, in such manner as to cross all the veins between the two pits. 

COSTELLATE:  Finely ribbed or costated. 

COSTER:  One who hawks about fruit, green vegetables, fish, etc. 

COSTERMONGER:  An apple seller; a hawker of, or dealer in, any kind of fruit or vegetables; a fruiterer. [Written also costardmonger.] 

COSTIFEROUS:  Rib-bearing, as the dorsal vertebræ. 

COSTIVELY:  In a costive manner. 

COSTLESS:  Costing nothing. 

COSTLEWE:  Costly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COSTLINESS:  The quality of being costy; expensiveness; sumptuousness. 

COSTMARY:  A garden plant (Chrysanthemum Balsamita) having a strong balsamic smell, and nearly allied to tansy. It is used as a pot herb and salad plant and in flavoring ale and beer. Called also alecost.  COSTON LIGHTS Cos"ton lights.  Signals made by burning lights of different colors and used by vessels at sea, and in the life-saving service; -- named after their inventor. 

COSTOTOME:  An instrument (chisel or shears) to cut the ribs and open the thoracic cavity, in post-mortem examinations and dissections. Knight. 

COSTREL:  A bottle of leather, earthenware, or wood, having ears by which it was suspended at the side. [Archaic] A youth, that, following with a costrel, bore The means of goodly welcome, flesh and wine. Tennyson. 

COSTUMER:  One who makes or deals in costumes, as for theaters, fancy balls, etc.  CO-SUFFERER Co-suf"fer*er (k-sf"fr-r), n.  One who suffers with another. Wycherley. 

COSUPREME:  A partaker of supremacy; one jointly supreme. Shak. 

COSURETY:  One who is surety with another. 

COSY:  See Cozy. 

COT:  A small, rudely-formed boat. Bell cot. (Arch.) See under Bell. 

COT:  A sleeping place of limited size; a little bed; a cradle; a piece of canvas extended by a frame, used as a bed. [Written also cott.] 

COTANGENT:  The tangent of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions. 

COTARNINE:  A white, crystalline substance, C12H13NO3, obtained as a product of the decomposition of narcotine. It has weak basic properties, and is usually regarded as an alkaloid. 

COTE:  To go side by side with; hence, to pass by; to outrun and get before; as, a dog cotes a hare. [Obs.] Drayton. We coted them on the way, and hither are they coming. Shak. 

COTE:  To quote. [Obs.] Udall. 

COTEMPORANEOUS:  Living or being at the same time; contemporaneous.  -- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.  -- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness, n. 

COTEMPORARY:  Living or being at the same time; contemporary. 

COTEMPORARY:  One who lives at the same time with another; a contemporary. 

COTENANT:  A tenant in common, or a joint tenant. 

COTERIE:  A set or circle of persons who meet familiarly, as for social, literary, or other purposes; a clique. "The queen of your coterie." Thackeray. 

COTERMINOUS:  Bordering; conterminous; -- followed by with. 

COTGARE:  Refuse wool. [Obs. or Prov.] 

COTHURN:  A buskin anciently used by tragic actors on the stage; hence, tragedy in general. The moment had arrived when it was thought that the mask and the cothurn might be assumed with effect. Motley.  COTHURNATE; COTHURNATED Co*thur"nate (k-thr"nt), Co*thur"na*ted (-n-td), a.  1. Wearing a cothurn.  2. Relating to tragedy; solemn; grave. 

COTHURNUS:  Same as Cothurn. 

COTICULAR:  Pertaining to whetstones; like or suitable for whetstones. 

COTIDAL:  Marking an equality in the tides; having high tide at the same time. Cotidal lines (Phys. Geog.), lines on a map passing through places that have high tide at the same time.  COTILLON; COTILLION Co`til`lon" (k`t`yn" or k`tl`-;277), Co*til"lion (k-tl"yn), n. Etym: [F. cotillon, fr. OF. cote coat, LL. cotta tunic. See Coat.]  1. A brisk dance, performed by eight persons; a quadrille.  2. A tune which regulates the dance.  3. A kind of woolen material for women's skrits. 

COTINGA:  A bird of the family Cotingidæ, including numerous bright- colored South American species; -- called also chatterers. 

COTISE:  See Cottise. 

COTISED:  See Cottised. 

COTLAND:  Land appendant to a cot or cottage, or held by a cottager or cotter. 

COTQUEANITY:  The condition, character, or conduct of a cotquean. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

COTRUSTEE:  A joint trustee. 

COTSWOLD:  An open country abounding in sheepcotes, as in the Cotswold hills, in Gloucestershire, England. Cotswold sheep, a long-wooled breed of sheep, formerly common in the counties of Gloucester, Hereford, and Worcester, Eng.; -- so called from the Cotswold Hills. The breed is now chiefly amalgamated with others. 

COTTA:  A surplice, in England and America usually one shorter and less full than the ordinary surplice and with short sleeves, or sometimes none.  2.  A kind of very coarse woolen blanket. 

COTTAGE:  A small house; a cot; a hut.  Note: The term was formerly limited to a habitation for the poor, but is now applied to any small tasteful dwelling; and at places of summer resort, to any residence or lodging house of rustic architecture, irrespective of size. Cottage allotment. See under Alloment. [Eng.] -- Cottage cheese, the thick part of clabbered milk strained, salted, and pressed into a ball. 

COTTAGED:  Set or covered with cottages. Even humble Harting's cottaged vale. Collins. 

COTTAGELY:  Cottagelike; suitable for a cottage; rustic. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

COTTAGER:  One who lives on the common, without paying any rent, or having land of his own.  COTTER; COTTAR Cot"ter, Cot"tar (kt"tr), n. Etym: [LL. cotarius, cottarius, coterius. See Cot.]  A cottager; a cottier. Burns. Through Sandwich Notch the West Wind sang Good morrow to the cotter. Whittier. 

COTTER:  To fasten with a cotter. 

COTTIER:  In Great Britain and Ireland, a person who hires a small cottage, with or without a plot of land. Cottiers commonly aid in the work of the landlord's farm. [Written also cottar and cotter.] 

COTTISE:  A diminutive of the bendlet, containing one half its area or one quarter the area of the bend. When a single cottise is used alone it is often called a cost. See also Couple-close. 

COTTISED:  Set between two cottises, -- said of a bend; or between two barrulets, -- said of a bar or fess. 

COTTOID:  Like a fish of the genus Cottus.  -- n.  A fish belonging to, or resembling, the genus Cottus. See Sculpin. 

COTTOLENE:  A product from cottonseed, used as lard. 

COTTONADE:  A somewhat stoun and thick fabric of cotton. 

COTTONARY:  Relating to, or composed of, cotton; cottony. [Obs.] Cottomary and woolly pillows. Sir T. Browne.  COTTON BATTING Cot"ton bat"ting.  Cotton prepared in sheets or rolls for quilting, upholstering, and similar purposes. 

COTTONOUS:  Resembling cotton. [R.] Evelyn.  COTTON SEED; COTTONSEED Cotton seed, or, usually collectively, Cot"ton*seed`, n.  The seed of the cotton plant.  COTTONSEED MEAL Cottonseed meal.  A meal made from hulled cotton seeds after the oil has been expressed.  COTTONSEED OIL Cottonseed oil.  A fixed, semidrying oil extracted from cottonseed. It is pale yellow when pure (sp. gr., .92-.93). and is extensively used in soap making, in cookery, and as an adulterant of other oils.  COTTON STATE Cotton State.  Alabama; -- a nickname. 

COTTONTAIL:  The American wood rabbit (Lepus sylvaticus); -- also called Molly cottontail. 

COTTONWEED:  See Cudweed. 

COTTONWOOD:  An American tree of the genus Populus or polar, having the seeds covered with abundant cottonlike hairs; esp., the P. monilifera and P. angustifolia of the Western United States. 

COTTREL:  A trammel, or hook to support a pot over a fire. Knight.  COTYLA; COTYLE Cot"y*la (kt"-l), Cot"y*le (kt"-l), n. Etym: [Gr. cotyla a measure.] (Anat.)  A cuplike cavity or organ. Same as Acetabulum. 

COTYLEDON:  One of the patches of villi found in some forms of placenta.  2. (Bot.)  A leaf borne by the caulicle or radicle of an embryo; a seed leaf.  Note: Many plants, as the bean and the maple, have two cotyledons, the grasses only one, and pines have several. In one African plant (Welwitschia) the cotyledons are permanent and grow to immense proportions. 

COTYLEDONAL:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cotyledon. 

COTYLEDONARY:  Having a cotyledon; tufted; as, the cotyledonary placenta of the cow. 

COTYLEDONOUS:  Of or pertaining to a cotyledon or cotyledons; having a seed lobe. 

COTYLIFORM:  Shaped like a cotyle or a cup. 

COTYLIGEROUS:  Having cotyles. 

COUCAL:  A large, Old World, ground cuckoo of the genus Centropus, of several species. 

COUCH:  To transfer (as sheets of partly dried pulp) from the wire clotch mold to a felt blanket, for further drying.  5. To conceal; to include or involve darkly. There is all this, and more, that lies naturally couched under this allegory. L'Estrange.  6. To arrange; to place; to inlay. [Obs.] Chaucer.  7. To put into some form of language; to express; to phrase; -- used with in and under. A well-couched invective. Milton. I had received a letter from Flora couched in rather cool terms. Blackw. Mag.  8. (Med.)  To treat by pushing down or displacing the opaque lens with a needle; as, to couch a cataract. To couch a spear or lance, to lower to the position of attack; to place in rest. He stooped his head, and couched his spear, And spurred his steed to full career. Sir W. Scott. To couch malt, to spread malt on a floor. Mortimer. 

COUCH:  A preliminary layer, as of color, size, etc. 

COUCHANCY:  State of lying down for repose. [R.] 

COUCHANT:  Lying down with the head raised, which distinguishes the posture of couchant from that of dormant, or sleeping; -- said of a lion or other beast. Couchant and levant (Law), rising up and lying down; -- said of beasts, and indicating that they have been long enough on land, not belonging to their owner, to lie down and rise up to feed, -- such time being held to include a day and night at the least. Blackstone. 

COUCHED:  Same as Couch. 

COUCHEE:  A reception held at the time of going to bed, as by a sovereign or great prince. [Obs.] Dryden. The duke's levees and couchees were so crowded that the antechambers were full. Bp. Burnet. 

COUCHER:  One who couches paper.  3. Etym: [Cf. L. collectarius.] (O. Eng. Law) (a) A factor or agent resident in a country for traffic. Blount. (b) The book in which a corporation or other body registers its particular acts. [Obs.] Cowell.  COUCH GRASS Couch" grass` (grs`). (Bot.)  See Quitch grass. 

COUCHING:  The operation of putting down or displacing the opaque lens in cataract.  2. Embroidering by laying the materials upon the surface of the foundation, instead of drawing them through. 

COUCHLESS:  Having no couch or bed. 

COUDEE:  A measure of length; the distance from the elbow to the end of the middle finger; a cubit. 

COUGAR:  An American feline quadruped (Felis concolor), resembling the African panther in size and habits. Its color is tawny, without spots; hence writers often called it the American lion. Called also puma, panther, mountain lion, and catamount. See Puma. 

COUGH:  To expel air, or obstructing or irritating matter, from the lungs or air passages, in a noisy and violent manner. 

COUGHER:  One who coughs. 

COUHAGE:  See Cowhage. 

COULD:  Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible. Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditional present. 

COULEE:  A stream; (Geol.)  a stream of lava. Also, in the Western United States, the bed of a stream, even if dry, when deep and having inclined sides; distinguished from a cañon, which has precipitous sides. 

COULOIR:  A dredging machine for excavating canals, etc. 

COULOMB:  The standard unit of quantity in electrical measurements. It is the quantity of electricity conveyed in one second by the current produced by an electro-motive force of one volt acting in a circuit having a resistance of one ohm, or the quantitty transferred by one ampère in one second. Formerly called weber.  COULOMB METER Cou`lomb" me"ter. (Elec.)  Any instrument by which electricity can be measured in coulombs.  COULOMB'S LAW Cou`lomb's" law. (Physics)  The law that the force exerted between two electric or magnetic charges is directly proportional to the product of the charges and inversely to the square of the distance between them. 

COULTER:  Same as Colter. 

COULTERNEB:  The puffin. 

COULURE:  A disease affecting grapes, esp. in California, manifested by the premature dropping of the fruit. 

COUMARIC:  Relating to, derived from, or like, the Dipterix odorata, a tree of Guiana. Coumaric acid (Chem.), one of a series of aromatic acids, related to cinnamic acid, the most important of which is a white crystalline substance, HO.C6H4.C2H2.CO2H, obtained from the tonka bean, sweet clover, etc., and also produced artifically. 

COUMARIN:  The concrete essence of the tonka bean, the fruit of Dipterix (formerly Coumarouna) odorata and consisting essentially of coumarin proper, which is a white crystalline substance, C9H6O2, of vanilla- like odor, regarded as an anhydride of coumaric acid, and used in flavoring. Coumarin in also made artificially. 

COUMAROU:  The tree (Dipteryx odorata) which bears the tonka bean; also, the bean itself. 

COUNCILIST:  One who belong to a council; one who gives an opinion. [Obs.] I will in three months be an expert counsilist. Milton. 

COUNCILMAN:  A member of a council, especially of the common council of a city; a councilor. 

COUNCILOR:  A member of a council. [Written also councillor.]  Note: The distinction between councilor, a member of a council, and counselor, one who gives councel, was not formerly made, but is now very generally recognized and observed.  CO-UNE Co`-une" (k`n"), v. t. Etym: [L. co- + unus one.]  To combine or unite. [Obs.] "Co-uned together." Feltham.  CO-UNITE Co`-u*nite" (k`-nt"), v. t.  To unite. [Obs.]  CO-UNITE Co`-u*nite", a.  United closely with another. [Obs.] 

COUNSELORSHIP:  The function and rank or office of a counselor. Bacon. 

COUNT:  To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count. Burrill. 

COUNT:  A formal statement of the plaintiff's case in court; in a more technical and correct sense, a particular allegation or charge in a declaration or indictment, separately setting forth the cause of action or prosecution. Wharton.  Note: In the old law books, count was used synonymously with declaration. When the plaintiff has but a single cause of action, and makes but one statement of it, that statement is called indifferently count or declaration, most generally, however, the latter. But where the suit embraces several causes, or the plaintiff makes several different statements of the same cause of action, each statement is called a count, and all of them combined, a declaration. Bouvier. Wharton. 

COUNT:  A nobleman on the continent of Europe, equal in rank to an English earl.  Note: Though the tittle Count has never been introduced into Britain, the wives of Earls have, from the earliest period of its history, been designated as Countesses. Brande & C. Count palatine. (a) Formerly, the proprietor of a county who possessed royal prerogatives within his county, as did the Earl of Chester, the Bishop of Durham, and the Duke of Lancaster. [Eng.] See County palatine, under County. (b) Originally, a high judicial officer of the German emperors; afterward, the holder of a fief, to whom was granted the right to exercise certain imperial powers within his own domains. [Germany] 

COUNTABLE:  Capable of being numbered. 

COUNTENANCER:  One who countenances, favors, or supports. 

COUNTER:  A prefix meaning contrary, opposite, in opposition; as, counteract, counterbalance, countercheck. See Counter, adv. & a. 

COUNTER:  A table or board on which money is counted and over which business is transacted; a long, narrow table or bench, on which goods are laid for examination by purchasers, or on which they are weighed or measured. 

COUNTER:  Contrary; opposite; contrasted; opposed; adverse; antagonistic; as, a counter current; a counter revolution; a counter poison; a counter agent; counter fugue. "Innumerable facts attesting the counter principle." I. Taylor. Counter approach (Fort.), a trench or work pushed forward from defensive works to meet the approaches of besiegers. See Approach.  -- Counter bond (Law), in old practice, a bond to secure one who has given bond for another.  -- Counter brace. See Counter brace, in Vocabulary.  -- Counter deed (Law), a secret writing which destroys, invalidates, or alters, a public deed.  -- Counter distinction, contradistinction. [Obs.] -- Counter drain, a drain at the foot of the embankment of a canal or watercourse, for carrying off the water that may soak through.  -- Counter extension (Surg.), the fixation of the upper part of a limb, while extension is practiced on the lower part, as in cases of luxation or fracture.  -- Counter fissure (Surg.) Same as Contrafissure.  -- Counter indication. (Med.) Same as Contraindication.  -- Counter irritant (Med.), an irritant to produce a blister, a pustular eruption, or other irritation in some part of the body, in order to relieve an existing irritation in some other part. "Counter irritants are of as great use in moral as in physical diseases." Macaulay.  -- Counter irritation (Med.), the act or the result of applying a counter irritant.  -- Counter opening, an aperture or vent on the opposite side, or in a different place. -Counter parole (Mil.), a word in addition to the password, given in time of alarm as a signal.  -- Counter plea (Law), a replication to a plea. Cowell.  -- Counter pressure, force or pressure that acts in a contrary direction to some other opposing pressure.  -- Counter project, a project, scheme, or proposal brought forward in opposition to another, as in the negotiation of a treaty. Swift.  -- Counter proof, in engraving, a print taken off from another just printed, which, by being passed through the press, gives a copy in reverse, and of course in the same position as that of plate from which the first was printed, the object being to enable the engraver to inspect the state of the plate.  -- Counter revolution, a revolution opposed to a former one, and restoring a former state of things.  -- Counter revolutionist, one engaged in, or befriending, a counter revolution.  -- Counter round (Mil.), a body of officers whose duty it is to visit and inspect the rounds and sentinels.  -- Counter sea (Naut.), a sea running in an opposite direction from the wind.  -- Counter sense, opposite meaning.  -- Counter signal, a signal to answer or correspond to another.  -- Counter signature, the name of a secretary or other officer countersigned to a writing. . Tooke.  -- Counter slope, an overhanging slope; as, a wall with a counter slope. Mahan.  -- Counter statement, a statement made in opposition to, or denial of, another statement.  -- Counter surety, a counter bond, or a surety to secure one who has given security.  -- Counter tally, a tally corresponding to another.  -- Counter tide, contrary tide. 

COUNTER:  The after part of a vessel's body, from the water line to the stern, -- below and somewhat forward of the stern proper.  2. (Mus.)  Same as Contra. Formerly used to designate any under part which served for contrast to a principal part, but now used as equivalent to counter tenor.  3. (Far.)  The breast, or thet part of a horse between the shoulders and under the neck.  4. The back leather or heel part of a boot. 

COUNTER:  An encounter. [Obs.] With kindly counter under mimic shade. Spenser. 

COUNTER:  To return a blow while receiving one, as in boxing. His left hand countered provokingly. C. Kingsley. 

COUNTERACT:  To act in opposition to; to hinder, defeat, or frustrate, by contrary agency or influence; as, to counteract the effect of medicines; to counteract good advice. 

COUNTERACTION:  Action in opposition; hindrance resistance. [They] do not . . . overcome the counteraction of a false principle or of stubborn partiality. Johnson. 

COUNTERACTIVE:  Tending to counteract. 

COUNTERACTIVE:  One who, or that which, counteracts. 

COUNTERACTIVELY:  By counteraction. 

COUNTERBALANCE:  To oppose with an equal weight or power; to counteract the power or effect of; to countervail; to equiponderate; to balance. The remaining air was not able to counterbalance the mercurial cylinder. Boyle. The cstudy of mind is necessary to counterbalance and correct the influence of the study of nature. Sir W. Hamilton. 

COUNTERBALANCE:  A weight, power, or agency, acting against or balancing another; as: (a) A mass of metal in one side of a driving wheel or fly wheel, to balance the weight of a crank pin, etc., on the opposite side of the wheel. (b) A counterpoise to balance the weight of anything, as of a drawbridge or a scale beam. Money is the counterbalance to all other things purchasable by it. Locke. 

COUNTERBORE:  To form a counterbore in, by boring, turning, or drilling; to enlarge, as a hole, by means of a counterbore.  COUNTER BRACE Coun"ter brace` (brs`).  1. (Naut.)  The brace of the fore-topsail on the leeward side of a vessel.  2. (Engin.)  A brace, in a framed structure, which resists a strain of a character opposite to that which a main brace is designed to receive.  Note: In a quadrilateral system of bracing, the main brace is usually in the direction of one diagonal, and the counter brace in the direction of the other. Strains in counter braces are occasioned by the live load only, as, in a roof, by the wind, or, in a bridge, by a moving train. 

COUNTERBRACE:  To brace in opposite directions; as, to counterbrace the yards, i. e., to brace the head yards one way and the after yards another.  2. (Engin.)  To brace in such a way that opposite strains are resisted; to apply counter braces to. 

COUNTERBUFF:  To strike or drive back or in an opposite direction; to stop by a blow or impulse in front. Dryden. 

COUNTERBUFF:  A blow in an opposite direction; a stroke that stops motion or cause a recoil. 

COUNTERCAST:  A trick; a delusive contrivance. [Obs.] Spenser. 

COUNTERCASTER:  A caster of accounts; a reckoner; a bookkeeper; -- used conteptuously. 

COUNTERCHANGE:  Exchange; reciprocation. 

COUNTERCHANGED:  Having the tinctures exchanged mutually; thus, if the field is divided palewise, or and azure, and cross is borne counterchanged, that part of the cross which comes on the azure side will be or, and that on the or side will be azure. 

COUNTERCHARGE:  An opposing charge. 

COUNTERCHARM:  To destroy the effect of a charm upon. 

COUNTERCHARM:  That which has the power of destroying the effect of a charm. 

COUNTERCHECK:  To oppose or check by some obstacle; to check by a return check. 

COUNTERCLAIM:  A claim made by a person as an offset to a claim made on him.  COUNTER-COMPONY Coun"ter-com*po`ny (-km-p`n), a. (Her.)  See Compony.  COUNTER-COUCHANT Coun"ter-couch`ant (koun"tr-kouch"ant), a. (Her.)  Lying down, with their heads in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in a coat of arms.  COUNTER-COURANT Coun"ter-cou*rant" (-k-rnt"), a. (Her.)  Running in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in a coast of arms. 

COUNTERCURRENT:  Running in an opposite direction. 

COUNTERCURRENT:  A current running in an opposite direction to the main current. 

COUNTERDRAW:  To copy, as a design or painting, by tracing with a pencil on oiled paper, or other transparent substance. 

COUNTERFAISANCE:  See Counterfesance. [Obs.] 

COUNTERFEITLY:  By forgery; falsely. 

COUNTERFESANCE:  The act of forging; forgery. [Obs.] [Written also counterfaisance.] 

COUNTERFLEURY:  Counterflory. 

COUNTERFLORY:  Adorned with flowers (usually fleurs-de-lis) so divided that the tops appear on one side and the bottoms on the others; -- said of any ordinary. 

COUNTERFORCE:  An opposing force. 

COUNTERFORT:  A kind of buttress of masonry to strengthen a revetment wall.  2. A spur or projection of a mountain. Imp. Dict. 

COUNTERGAGE:  An adjustable gage, with double points for transferring measurements from one timber to another, as the breadth of a mortise to the place where the tenon is to be made. Knight. 

COUNTERGLOW:  An exceedingly faint roundish or somewhat oblong nebulous light near the ecliptic and opposite the sun, best seen during September and October, when in the constellations Sagittarius and Pisces. Its cause is not yet understood. Called also Gegenschein. 

COUNTERGUARD:  A low outwork before a bastion or ravelin, consisting of two lines of rampart parallel to the faces of the bastion, and protecting them from a breaching fire.  COUNTERIRRITANT; COUNTERIRRITATION Coun"ter*ir`ri*tant (-r"r-tant), n., Coun"ter*ir`ri*ta"tion, n.  See Counter irritant, etc., under Counter, a. 

COUNTERIRRITATE:  To produce counter irritation in; to treat with one morbid process for the purpose of curing another. 

COUNTERJUMPER:  A salesman in a shop; a shopman; -- used contemtuously. [Slang] 

COUNTERMAN:  A man who attends at the counter of a shop to sell goods. [Eng.] 

COUNTERMAND:  A contrary order; revocation of a former order or command. Have you no countermand for Claudio yet, But he must die to-morrow Shak. 

COUNTERMANDABLE:  Capable of being countermanded; revocable. Bacon. 

COUNTERMARCH:  To march back, or to march in reversed order. The two armies marched and countermarched, drew near and receded. Macaulay. 

COUNTERMARCH:  An evolution by which a body of troops change front or reverse the direction of march while retaining the same men in the front rank; also, a movement by which the rear rank becomes the front one, either with or without changing the right to the left.  3. A change of measures; alteration of conduct. Such countermarches and retractions as we do not willingly impute to wisdom. T. Burnet. 

COUNTERMARK:  An artificial cavity made in the teeth of horses that have outgrown their natural mark, to disguise their age. 

COUNTERMARK:  To apply a countenmark to; as, to countermark silverware; to countermark a horse's teeth. 

COUNTERMINE:  An underground gallery excavated to intercept and destroy the mining of an enemy.  2. A stratagem or plot by which another sratagem or project is defeated. Thinking himself contemned, knowing no countermine against contempt but terror. Sir P. Sidney. 

COUNTERMINE:  To oppose by means or a countermine; to intercept with a countermine.  2. To frustrate or counteract by secret measures. 

COUNTERMINE:  To make a countermine or counterplot; to plot secretly. 'Tis hard for man to countermine with God. Chapman. 

COUNTERMOVE:  To move in a contrary direction to.  COUNTERMOVE; COUNTERMOVEMENT Coun"ter*move` (-mv`), n. Coun"ter*move`ment (-ment).  A movement in opposition to another. 

COUNTERMURE:  A wall raised behind another, to supply its place when breached or destroyed. [R.] Cf. Contramure. Knolles. 

COUNTERMURE:  To fortify with a wall behind another wall. [R.] Kyd. 

COUNTERNATURAL:  Contrary to nature. [R.] Harvey.  COUNTER-PALY Coun"ter-pa`ly (-p`l), a. Etym: [F. contre-palé.] (Her.)  Paly, and then divided fesswise, so that each vertical piece is cut into two, having the colors used alternately or counterchanged. Thus the escutcheon in the illustration may also be blazoned paly of six per fess counterchanged argent and azure. 

COUNTERPANE:  A coverlet for a bed, -- originally stitched or woven in squares or figures. On which a tissue counterpane was cast. Drayton. 

COUNTERPANE:  A duplicate part or copy of an indenture, deed, etc., corresponding with the original; -- now called counterpart. Read, scribe; give me the counterpane. B. Jonson. 

COUNTERPART:  One of two corresponding copies of an instrument; a duplicate.  3. A person who closely resembles another.  4. A thing may be applied to another thing so as to fit perfectly, as a seal to its impression; hence, a thing which is adapted to another thing, or which suplements it; that which serves to complete or complement anything; hence, a person or thing having qualities lacking in another; an opposite. O counterpart Of our soft sex, well are you made our lords. Dryden. 

COUNTERPASSANT:  Passant in opposite directions; -- said of two animals. 

COUNTERPLEAD:  To plead the contrary of; to plead against; to deny. 

COUNTERPLOT:  To oppose, as another plot, by plotting; to attempt to frustrate, as a stratagem, by stratagem. Every wile had proved abortive, every plot had been counterplotted. De Quinsey. 

COUNTERPLOT:  A plot or artifice opposed to another. L'Estrange. 

COUNTERPOINT:  An opposite point [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 

COUNTERPOINT:  A coverlet; a cover for a bed, often stitched or broken into squares; a counterpane. See 1st Counterpane. Embroidered coverlets or counterpoints of purple silk. Sir T. North. 

COUNTERPOLE:  The exact opposite. The German prose offers the counterpole to the French style. De Quincey. 

COUNTERPONDERATE:  TO equal in weight; to counterpoise; to equiponderate. 

COUNTERPROVE:  To take a counter proof of, or a copy in reverse, by taking an impression directly from the face of an original. See Counter proof, under Counter.  COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY; COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY counterrevolutionary counter-revolutionary adj.  marked by opposition or antipathy to revolution; as, ostracized for his counterrevolutionary tendencies. Opposite of revolutionary. [WordNet 1.5]  COUNTER-ROLL Coun"ter-roll` (-rl`), n. Etym: [Cf. Control.] (O. Eng. Law)  A duplicate roll (record or account) kept by an officer as a check upon another officer's roll. Burrill.  Note: As a verb this word is contracted into control. See Control. 

COUNTERROLMENT:  A counter account. See Control. [Obs.] Bacon.  COUNTER-SALIENT Coun`ter-sa"li*ent (-s"l-ent or -sl"yent; 106), a. (Her.)  Leaping from each other; -- said of two figures on a coast of arms. 

COUNTERSCALE:  Counterbalance; balance, as of one scale against another. [Obs.] Howell. 

COUNTERSCARF:  The exterior slope or wall of the ditch; -- sometimes, the whole covered way, beyond the ditch, with its parapet and glacis; as, the enemy have lodged themselves on the counterscarp. 

COUNTERSEAL:  To seal or ratify with another or others. Shak. 

COUNTERSECURE:  To give additional security to or for. Burke. 

COUNTERSHAFT:  An intermediate shaft; esp., one which receives motion from a line shaft in a factory and transmits it to a machine. 

COUNTERSIGN:  To sign on the opposite side of (an instrument or writing); hence, to sign in addition to the signature of a principal or superior, in order to attest the authenticity of a writing. 

COUNTERSIGN:  A private signal, word, or phrase, which must be given in order to pass a sentry; a watchword. 

COUNTERSTAND:  Resistance; opposition; a stand against. Making counterstand to Robert Guiscard. Longfellow. 

COUNTERSTEP:  A contrary method of procedure; opposite course of action. 

COUNTERSTOCK:  See Counterfoil. 

COUNTERSTROKE:  A stroke or blow in return. Spenser. 

COUNTERSWAY:  A swaying in a contrary direction; an opposing influence. [Obs.] A countersway of restraint, curbing their wild exorbitance. Milton.  COUNTER TENOR Coun"ter ten`or (tn`r). Etym: [OF. contreteneur. Cf. Contratenor, and see Tenor a part in music.] (Mus.)  One of the middle parts in music, between the tenor and the treble; high tenor. Counter-tenor clef (Mus.), the C clef when placed on the third line; -- also called alto clef. 

COUNTERTERM:  A term or word which is the opposite of, or antithesis to, another; an antonym; -- the opposite of synonym; as, "foe" is the counterterm of "friend". C. J. Smith. 

COUNTERTIME:  The resistance of a horse, that interrupts his cadence and the measure of his manege, occasioned by a bad horseman, or the bad temper of the horse.  2. Resistance; opposition. [Obs.] Give not shus the countertime to fate. Dryden. 

COUNTERTRIPPANT:  Trippant in opposite directions. See Trippant. 

COUNTERTRIPPING:  Same as Countertrippant. 

COUNTERTURN:  The critical moment in a play, when, contrary to expectation, the action is embroiled in new difficulties. Dryden. 

COUNTERVAIL:  To act against with equal force, power, or effect; to thwart or overcome by such action; to furnish an equivalent to or for; to counterbalance; to compensate. Upon balancing the account, the profit at last will hardly countervail the inconveniences that go allong with it. L'Estrange. 

COUNTERVAIL:  Power or value sufficient to obviate any effect; equal weight, strength, or value; equivalent; compensation; requital. [Obs.] Surely, the present pleasure of a sinful act is a poor countervail for the bitterness of the review. South. 

COUNTERVALLATION:  See Contravallation. 

COUNTERVOTE:  To vote in opposition ti; to balance or overcome by viting; to outvote. Dr. J. Scott. 

COUNTERWAIT:  To wait or watch for; to be on guard against. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COUNTERWEIGH:  To weigh against; to counterbalance.  COUNTER WEIGHT Coun"ter *weight` (-wt`), n.  A counterpoise. 

COUNTERWHEEL:  To cause to wheel or turn in an opposite direction. 

COUNTERWORK:  To work in oppositeion to; to counteract. That counterworksh folly and caprice. Pope. 

COUNTESS:  The wife of an earl in the British peerage, or of a count in the Continental nobility; also, a lady possessed of the same dignity in her own right. See the Note under Count.  COUNTINGHOUSE; COUNTINGROOM Count"ing*house` (kount"ng-hous`), Count"ing*room` (kount"ng-rm`), n. Etym: [See Count, v. ]  The house or room in which a merchant, trader, or manufacturer keeps his books and transacts business. 

COUNTLESS:  Incapable of being counted; not ascertainable; innumerable. 

COUNTOR:  An advocate or professional pleader; one who counted for his client, that is, orally pleaded his cause. [Obs.] Burrill.  COUNTOUR; COUNTOURHOUSE Coun*tour" (kn-tr"), Coun*tour"house` (-hous`), n. Etym: [See 2d Counter.]  A merchant's office; a countinghouse. [Obs.] Chaucer.  COUNTRE- Coun"tre- (koun"ter-).  Same as prefix Counter-. [Obs.] 

COUNTREPLETE:  To counterplead. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COUNTRETAILLE:  A counter tally; correspondence (in sound). [Obs.] At the countretaille, in return. Chaucer. 

COUNTRIFIED:  Having the appearance and manners of a rustic; rude. As being one who took no pride, And was a deal too countrified. Lloyd. 

COUNTRIFY:  To give a rural appearance to; to cause to appear rustic. Lamb. 

COUNTRY:  The rock through which a vein runs. Conclusion to the country. See under Conclusion.  -- To put, or throw, one's self upon the country, to appeal to one's constituents; to stand trial before a jury. 

COUNTRY:  A national bank not in a reserve city. [Colloq., U. S.]  COUNTRY-BASE Coun"try-base` (-bs`), n.  Same as Prison base.  COUNTRY CLUB Coun"try club.  A club usually located in the suburbs or vicinity of a city or town and devoted mainly to outdoor sports.  COUNTRY COUSIN Coun"try cousin.  A relative from the country visiting the city and unfamiliar with city manners and sights.  COUNTRY-DANCE Coun"try-dance` (-dns`), n. Etym: [Prob. an adaptation of contradance.]  See Contradance. He had introduced the English country-dance to the knowledge of the Dutch ladies. Macualay. 

COUNTRYMAN:  A dwelling in the country, used as a place of retirement from the city. 

COUNTRYSIDE:  A particular rural district; a country neighborhood. [Eng.] W. Black. Blackmore. 

COUNTRYWOMAN:  A woman born, or dwelling, in the country, as opposed to the city; a woman born or dwelling in the same country with another native or inhabitant. Shak.  COUNT-WHEEL Count"-wheel` (kount"hwl`), n.  The wheel in a clock which regulates the number of strokes. 

COUP:  A sudden stroke; an unexpected device or stratagem; -- a term used in various ways to convey the idea of promptness and force. Coup de grace (ke gr Etym: [F.], the stroke of mercy with which an executioner ends by death the sufferings of the condemned; hence, a decisive, finishing stroke.  -- Coup de main (ke m Etym: [F.] (Mil.), a sudden and unexpected movement or attack.  -- Coup de soleil (k Etym: [F.] (Med.), a sunstroke. See Sunstroke.  -- Coup d'état (k Etym: [F.] (Politics), a sudden, decisive exercise of power whereby the existing government is subverted without the consent of the people; an unexpected measure of state, more or less violent; a stroke of policy.  -- Coup d'oeil (k. Etym: [F.] (a) A single view; a rapid glance of the eye; a comprehensive view of a scene; as much as can be seen at one view. (b) The general effect of a picture. (c) (Mil.) The faculty or the act of comprehending at a glance the weakness or strength of a military position, of a certain arrangement of troops, the most advantageous position for a battlefield, etc. 

COUPABLE:  Culpable. [Obs.] 

COUPED:  Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- used especially for the head or limb of an animal. See Erased. 

COUPEE:  A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raised from the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made. Chambers.  COUPE-GORGE Coupe`-gorge" (kp`grzh"), n. Etym: [F., cut throat.] (Mil.)  Any position giving the enemy such advantage that the troops occupying it must either surrender or be cut to pieces. Farrow. 

COUPLE:  See Couple-close.  5. (Elec.)  One of the pairs of plates of two metals which compose a voltaic battery; -- called a voltaic couple or galvanic couple.  6. (Mech.)  Two rotations, movements, etc., which are equal in amount but opposite in direction, and acting along parallel lines or around parallel axes.  Note: The effect of a couple of forces is to produce a rotation. A couple of rotations is equivalent to a motion of translation. 

COUPLE:  To come together as male and female; to copulate. [Obs.] Milton. Bacon.  COUPLE-BEGGAR Cou"ple-beg`gar (-bg`gr), n.  One who makes it his business to marry beggars to each other. Swift.  COUPLE-CLOSE Cou"ple-close` (kp"-kls`), n.; pl. Couple-closes (-kl  1. (Her.)  A diminutive of the chevron, containing one fourth of its surface. Couple-closes are generally borne one on each side of a chevron, and the blazoning may then be either a chevron between two couple-closes or chevron cottised.  2. (Arch.)  A pair of rafters framed together with a tie fixed at their feet, or with a collar beam. [Engl.] 

COUPLEMENT:  Union; combination; a coupling; a pair. [Obs.] Shak. And forth together rode, a goodly couplement. Spenser. 

COUPLER:  One who couples; that which couples, as a link, ring, or shackle, to connect cars. Coupler of an organ, a contrivance by which any two or more of the ranks of keys, or keys and pedals, are connected so as to act together when the organ is played. 

COUPLET:  Two taken together; a pair or couple; especially two lines of verse that rhyme with each other. A sudden couplet rushes on your mind. Crabbe. 

COUPLING:  A device or contrivance which serves to couple or connect adjacent parts or objects; as, a belt coupling, which connects the ends of a belt; a car coupling, which connects the cars in a train; a shaft coupling, which connects the ends of shafts. Box coupling, Chain coupling. See under Box, Chain.  -- Coupling box, a coupling shaped like a journal box, for clamping together the ends of two shafts, so that they may revolve together.  -- Coupling pin, a pin or bolt used in coupling or joining together railroad cars, etc. 

COUPON:  A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom of transferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.), given for a term of years, designed to be cut off and presented for payment when the interest is due; an interest warrant.  2. A section of a ticket, showing the holder to be entitled to some specified accomodation or service, as to a passage over a designated line of travel, a particular seat in a theater, or the like. 

COUPSTICK:  A stick or switch used among some American Indians in making or counting a coup. 

COUPURE:  A passage cut through the glacis to facilitate sallies by the besieged. Wilhelm. 

COURAGE:  To inspire with courage. [Obs.] Paul writeth unto Timothy . . . to courage him. Tyndale. 

COURAGEOUS:  Possessing, or characterized by, courage; brave; bold. With this victory, the women became most courageous and proud, and the men waxed . . . fearful and desperate. Stow.  Syn.  -- Gallant; brave; bold; daring; valiant; valorous; heroic; intrepid; fearless; hardy; stout; adventurous; enterprising. See Gallant. 

COURAGEOUSLY:  In a courageous manner. 

COURAGEOUSNESS:  The quality of being courageous; courage. 

COURANT:  Represented as running; -- said of a beast borne in a coat of arms. 

COURANTO:  A sprightly dance; a coranto; a courant. 

COURAP:  A skin disease, common in India, in which there is perpetual itching and eruption, esp. of the groin, breast, armpits, and face. 

COURB:  Curved; rounded. [Obs.] Her neck is short, her shoulders courb. Gower. 

COURB:  To bend; to stop; to bow. [Obs.] Then I courbed on my knees. Piers Plowman. 

COURBARIL:  See Animé, n. 

COURCHE:  A square piece of linen used formerly by women instead of a cap; a kerchief. [Scot.] [Written also curch.] Jamieson. 

COURLAN:  A South American bird, of the genus Aramus, allied to the rails. 

COURSE:  A continuous level range of brick or stones of the same height throughout the face or faces of a building. Gwilt.  12. (Naut.)  The lowest sail on any mast of a square-rigged vessel; as, the fore course, main course, etc.  13. pl. (Physiol.)  The menses. In course, in regular succession.  -- Of course, by consequence; as a matter of course; in regular or natural order.  -- In the course of, at same time or times during. "In the course of human events." T. Jefferson.  Syn.  -- Way; road; route; passage; race; series; succession; manner; method; mode; career; progress. 

COURSER:  A grallatorial bird of Europe (Cursorius cursor), remarkable for its speed in running. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied to running birds of the Ostrich family. 

COURSEY:  A space in the galley; a part of the hatches. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

COURSING:  The pursuit or running game with dogs that follow by sight instead of by scent. In coursing of a deer, or hart, with greyhounds. Bacon 

COURT:  An inferior court of civil jurisdiction, attached to a manor, and held by the steward; a baron's court; -- now fallen into disuse. 

COURTBRED:  Bred, or educated, at court; polished; courtly.  COURT-CRAFT Court"-craft` (krt"krft`), n.  The artifices, intrigues, and plottings, at courts.  COURT-CUPBOARD Court"-cup`board (-kb`brd), n.  A movable sideboard or buffet, on which plate and other articles of luxury were displayed on special ocasions. [Obs.] A way with the joint stools, remove the court-cupboard, look to the plate. Shak. 

COURTELLE:  a wool-like fabric. [WordNet 1.5] 

COURTEOUS:  Of courtlike manners; pertaining to, or exxpressive of, courtesy; characterized by courtesy; civil; obliging; well bred; polite; affable; complaisant. A patient and courteous bearing. Prescott. His behavior toward his people is grave and courteous. Fuller. 

COURTEOUSLY:  In a courteous manner. 

COURTEOUSNESS:  The quality of being courteous; politeness; courtesy. 

COURTEPY:  A short coat of coarse cloth. [Obs.] Full threadbare was his overeste courtepy. Chaucer. 

COURTER:  One who courts; one who plays the lover, or who solicits in marriage; one who flatters and cajoles. Sherwood. 

COURTESAN:  A woman who prostitutes herself for hire; a prostitute; a harlot. Lasciviously decked like a courtesan. Sir H. Wotton. 

COURTESANSHIP:  Harlotry. 

COURTESY:  An act of civility, respect, or reverence, made by women, consisting of a slight depression or dropping of the body, with bending of the kness. [Written also curtsy.] The lady drops a courtesy in token of obedience, and the ceremony proceeds as usual. Golgsmith. 

COURTESY:  To make a respectful salutation or movement of respect; esp. (with reference to women), to bow the body slightly, with bending of the knes. 

COURTESY:  To treat with civility. [Obs.] 

COURTIERY:  The manners of a courtier; courtliness. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  COURT-LEET Court"-leet` (-lt`), n. (Eng. Law)  A court of record held once a year, in a particular hundred, lordship, or manor, before the steward of the leet. Blackstone. 

COURTLIKE:  After the manner of a court; elegant; polite; courtly. 

COURTLINESS:  The quality of being courtly; elegance or dignity of manners. 

COURTLING:  A sycophantic courtier. B. Jonson. 

COURTLY:  In the manner of courts; politely; gracefully; elegantly. They can produce nothing so courtly writ. Dryden  COURT-MARTIAL Court`-mar"tial (krt`mr"shal), n.; pl. Courts-martial (k.  A court consisting of military or naval officers, for the trial of one belonging to the army or navy, or of offenses against military or naval law.  COURT-MARTIAL Court`-mar"tial, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Court-martialed (-shald); p. pr. & vb. n. Court-martialing.]  To subject to trial by a court-martial.  COURT-PLASTER Court"-plas`ter (krt"pls`tr), n.  Sticking plaster made by coating taffeta or silk on one side with some adhesive substance, commonly a mixture of isinglass and glycerin. 

COURTSHIP:  See under Tennis. 

COURTYARD:  A court or inclosure attached to a house. 

COUSCOUS:  A kind of food used by the natives of Western Africa, made of millet flour with flesh, and leaves of the baobab; -- called also lalo. 

COUSCOUSOU:  A favorite dish in Barbary. See Couscous. 

COUSIN:  Allied; akin. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COUSINAGE:  Relationship; kinship. [Obs.] Wyclif.  COUSIN-GERMAN Cous"in-ger"man (-jr"man), n. Etym: [Cousin + german closely akin.]  A first cousin. See Note under Cousin, 1. 

COUSINHOOD:  The state or condition of a cousin; also, the collective body of cousins; kinsfolk. 

COUSINLY:  Like or becoming a cousin. 

COUSINRY:  A body or collection of cousins; the whole number of persons who stand in the relation of cousins to a given person or persons. 

COUSINSHIP:  The relationship of cousins; state of being cousins; cousinhood. G. Eliot. 

COUTEAU:  A knife; a dagger. 

COUTH:  Could; was able; knew or known; understood. [Obs.] Above all other one Daniel He loveth, for he couth well Divine, that none other couth; To him were all thing couth, As he had it of God's grace. Gower. 

COUVADE:  A custom, among certain barbarous tribes, that when a woman gives birth to a child her husband takes to his bed, as if ill. The world-wide custom of the couvade, where at childbirth the husband undergoes medical treatment, in many cases being put to bed for days. Tylor. 

COUVEUSE:  An incubator for sickly infants, esp. those prematurely born. 

COVARIANT:  A function involving the coefficients and the variables of a quantic, and such that when the quantic is lineally transformed the same function of the new variables and coefficients shall be equal to the old function multiplied by a factor. An invariant is a like function involving only the coefficients of the quantic. 

COVE:  To arch over; to build in a hollow concave form; to make in the form of a cove. The mosques and other buildings of the Arabians are rounded into domes and coved roofs. H. Swinburne. Coved ceiling, a ceiling, the part of which next the wail is constructed in a cove.  -- Coved vault, a vault composed of four coves meeting in a central point, and therefore the reverse of a groined vault. 

COVE:  To brood, cover, over, or sit over, as birds their eggs. [Obs.] Not being able to cove or sit upon them [eggs], she [the female tortoise] bestoweth them in the gravel. Holland. 

COVE:  A boy or man of any age or station. [Slang] There's a gentry cove here. Wit's Recreations (1654). Now, look to it, coves, that all the beef and drink Be not filched from us. Mrs. Browning.  COVELLINE; COVELLITE Co*vel"line (k-vl"ln), Co*vel"lite (-lt), n. Etym: [After Covelli, the discoverer.] (Min.)  A native sulphide of copper, occuring in masses of a dark blue color; -- hence called indigo copper. 

COVENABLE:  Fit; proper; suitable. [Obs.] "A covenable day." Wyclif (Mark vi. 21). 

COVENABLY:  Fitly; suitably. [Obs.] "Well and covenably." Chaucer. 

COVENANT:  An agreement made by the Scottish Parliament in 1638, and by the English Parliament in 1643, to preserve the reformed religion in Scotland, and to extirpate popery and prelacy; -- usually called the "Solemn League and Covenant." He [Wharton] was born in the days of the Covenant, and was the heir of a covenanted house. Macualay.  3. (Theol.)  The promises of God as revealed in the Scriptures, conditioned on certain terms on the part of man, as obedience, repentance, faith, etc. I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee. Gen. xvii. 7.  4. A solemn compact between members of a church to maintain its faith, discipline, etc.  5. (Law) (a) An undertaking, on sufficient consideration, in writing and under seal, to do or to refrain from some act or thing; a contract; a stipulation; also, the document or writing containing the terms of agreement. (b) A form of action for the violation of a promise or contract under seal.  Syn.  -- Agreement; contract; compact; bargain; arrangement; stipulation.  -- Covenant, Contract, Compact, Stipulation. These words all denote a mutual agreement between two parties. Covenant is frequently used in a religious sense; as, the covenant of works or of grace; a church covenant; the Solemn League and Covenant. Contract is the word most used in the business of life. Crabb and Taylor are wrong in saying that a contract must always be in writing. There are oral and implied contracts as well as written ones, and these are equally enforced by law. In legal usage, the word covenant has an important place as connected with contracts. A compact is only a stronger and more solemn contract. The term is chiefly applied to political alliances. Thus, the old Confederation was a compact between the States. Under the present Federal Constitution, no individual State can, without consent of Congress, enter into a compact with any other State or foreign power. A stipulation is one of the articles or provisions of a contract. 

COVENANT:  To agree (with); to enter into a formal agreement; to bind one's self by contract; to make a stipulation. Jupiter covenanted with him, that it should be hot or cold, wet or dry, . . . as the tenant should direct. L'Estrange. And they covenanted with him for thyrty pieces of silver. Matt. xxvi. 15.  Syn.  -- To agree; contract; bargain; stipulate. 

COVENANT:  To grant or promise by covenant. My covenant of peace that I covenanted with you. Wyclif. 

COVENANTEE:  The person in whose favor a covenant is made. 

COVENANTER:  One who subscribed and defended the "Solemn League and Covenant." See Covenant. 

COVENANTING:  Belonging to a covenant. Specifically, belonging to the Scotch Covenanters. Be they covenanting traitors, Or the brood of false Argyle Aytoun. 

COVENANTOR:  The party who makes a covenant. Burrill. 

COVENOUS:  See Covinous, and Covin. 

COVENT:  A convent or monastery. [Obs.] Bale. Covent Garden, a large square in London, so called because originally it was the garden of a monastery. 

COVENTRY:  A town in the county of Warwick, England. To send to Coventry, to exclude from society; to shut out from social intercourse, as for ungentlemanly conduct.  -- Coventry blue, blue thread of a superior dye, made at Coventry, England, and used for embroidery. 

COVER:  The woods, underbrush, etc., which shelter and conceal game; covert; as, to beat a cover; to ride to cover.  5. That portion of a slate, tile, or shingle, which is hidden by the overlap of the course above. Knight.  6. (Steam Engine)  The lap of a slide valve.  7. Etym: [Cf. F. couvert.]  A tablecloth, and the other table furniture; esp., the table furniture for the use of one person at a meal; as, covers were laid for fifty guests. To break cover, to start from a covert or lair; -- said of game.  -- Under cover, in an envelope, or within a letter; -- said of a written message. Letters . . . dispatched under cover to her ladyship. Thackeray. 

COVER:  To spread a table for a meal; to prepare a banquet. [Obs.] Shak. 

COVERAGE:  The aggregate of risks covered by the terms of a contract of insurance. 

COVERCHIEF:  A covering for the head. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COVERCLE:  A small cover; a lid. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  COVER CROP Cov"er crop.  A catch crop planted, esp. in orchards. as a protection to the soil in winter, as well as for the benefit of the soil when plowed under in spring. 

COVERED:  Under cover; screened; sheltered; not exposed; hidden. Covered way (Fort.), a corridor or banquette along the top of the counterscarp and covered by an embankment whose slope forms the glacis. It gives the garrisonn an open line of communication around the works, and a standing place beyond the ditch. See Illust. of Ravelin. 

COVERER:  One who, or that which, covers. 

COVERING:  Anything which covers or conceals, as a roof, a screen, a wrapper, clothing, etc. Noah removed the covering of the ark. Gen. viii. 13. They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have no covering in the cold. Job. xxiv. 7. A covering over the well's mouth. 2 Sam. xvii. 19. 

COVERLET:  The uppermost cover of a bed or of any piece of furniture. Lay her in lilies and in violets . . . And odored sheets and arras coverlets. Spenser. 

COVERLID:  A coverlet. All the coverlid was clocth of gold. Tennyson.  COVER-POINT Cov"er-point` (-point!), n.  The fielder in the games of cricket and lacrosse who supports "point."  COVERSED SINE Co*versed" sine (k-vrst" sn`). Etym: [Co- (=co- in co- sine) + versed sine.] (Geom.)  The versed sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.  COVER-SHAME Cov"er-shame` (-shm`), n.  Something used to conceal infamy. [Obs.] Dryden. 

COVERSIDE:  A region of country having covers; a hunting country. 

COVERT:  Under cover, authority or protection; as, a feme covert, a married woman who is considered as being under the protection and control of her husband. Covert way, (Fort.) See Covered way, under Covered.  Syn.  -- Hidden; secret; private; covered; disguised; insidious; concealed. See Hidden. 

COVERT:  One of the special feathers covering the bases of the quills of the wings and tail of a bird. See Illust. of Bird.  COVERT BARON Cov"ert bar`on (br`n). (Law)  Under the protection of a husband; married. Burrill. 

COVERTLY:  Secretly; in private; insidiously. 

COVERTNESS:  Secrecy; privacy. [R.] 

COVERTURE:  The condition of a woman during marriage, because she is considered under the cover, influence, power, and protection of her husband, and therefore called a feme covert, or femme couverte. 

COVET:  To have or indulge inordinate desire. Which [money] while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith. 1 Tim. vi. 10. 

COVETABLE:  That may be coveted; desirable. 

COVETER:  One who covets. 

COVETISE:  Avarice. [Obs.] Spenser. 

COVETIVENESS:  Acquisitiveness. 

COVETOUSLY:  In a covetous manner. 

COVEY:  To brood; to incubate. [Obs.] [Tortoises] covey a whole year before they hatch. Holland. 

COVEY:  A pantry. [Prov. Eng.] Parker. 

COVIN:  A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudice a third.  2. Deceit; fraud; artifice. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

COVINOUS:  Deceitful; collusive; fraudulent; dishonest. 

COW:  A chimney cap; a cowl 

COW:  To depress with fear; to daunt the spirits or courage of; to overawe. To vanquish a people already cowed. Shak. THe French king was cowed. J. R. Green. 

COW:  A wedge, or brake, to check the motion of a machine or car; a chock. Knight. 

COWAGE:  See Cowhage. 

COWALKER:  A phantasmic or "astral" body deemed to be separable from the physical body and capable of acting independently; a doppelgänger. 

COWAN:  One who works as a mason without having served a regular apprenticeship. [Scot.]  Note: Among Freemasons, it is a cant term for pretender, interloper. 

COWARD:  Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs; -- said of a lion.  2. Destitute of courage; timid; cowardly. Fie, coward woman, and soft-hearted wretch. Shak.  3. Belonging to a coward; proceeding from, or expressive of, base fear or timidity. He raised the house with loud and coward cries. Shak. Invading fears repel my coward joy. Proir. 

COWARD:  A person who lacks courage; a timid or pusillanimous person; a poltroon. A fool is nauseous, but a coward worse. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Craven; poltroon; dastard. 

COWARD:  To make timoroys; to frighten. [Obs.] That which cowardeth a man's heart. Foxe. 

COWARDICE:  Want of courage to face danger; extreme timidity; pusillanimity; base fear of danger or hurt; lack of spirit. The cowardice of doing wrong. Milton. Moderation was despised as cowardice. Macualay. 

COWARDIE:  Cowardice. [Obs.] 

COWARDISH:  Cowardly. [Obs.] " A base and a cowardish mind." Robynson (More's Utopia). 

COWARDIZE:  To render cowardly. [Obs.] God . . . cowardizeth . . . insolent spirits. Bp. Hall. 

COWARDLINESS:  Cowardice. 

COWARDLY:  In the manner of a coward. Spenser. 

COWARDSHIP:  Cowardice. [Obs.] Shak. 

COWBANE:  A poisonous umbelliferous plant; in England, the Cicuta virosa; in the United States, the Cicuta maculata and the Archemora rigida. See Water hemlock. 

COWBERRY:  A species of Vaccinium (V. Vitis-id), which bears acid red berries which are sometimes used in cookery; -- locally called mountain cranberry. 

COWBIRD:  The cow blackbird (Molothrus ater), an American starling. Like the European cuckoo, it builds no nest, but lays its eggs in the nests of other birds; -- so called because frequently associated with cattle. 

COWBLAKES:  Dried cow dung used as fuel.[Prov. Eng.] Simmonds. 

COWCATCHER:  A strong inclined frame, usually of wrought-iron bars, in front of a locomotive engine, for catching or throwing off obstructions on a railway, as cattle; the pilot. [U.S.] 

COWDIE:  See Kauri. 

COWER:  To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, to quail; to sink through fear. Our dame sits cowering o'er a kitchen fire. Dryden. Like falcons, cowering on the nest. Goldsmith. 

COWER:  To cherish with care. [Obs.] 

COWHAGE:  A leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crooked pods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causing intolerable itching. The spiculæ are sometimes used in medicine as a mechanical vermifuge. [Written also couhage, cowage, and cowitch.] 

COWHEARTED:  Cowardly. The Lady Powis . . . patted him with her fan, and called him a cowhearted fellow. R. North. 

COWHERD:  One whose occupation is to tend cows. 

COWHIDE:  To flog with a cowhide. 

COWISH:  Timorous; fearful; cowardly. [R.] Shak. 

COWISH:  An umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum Cous) with edible tuberous roots, found in Oregon. [Written also cous.] 

COWITCH:  See Cowhage. 

COWL:  A vessel carried on a pole between two persons, for conveyance of water. Johnson. 

COWLED:  Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk. "That cowled churchman." Emerson. 

COWLEECH:  One who heals disease of cows; a cow doctor. 

COWLEECHING:  Healing the distemper of cows. 

COWLICK:  A tuft of hair turned up or awry (usually over the forehead), as if licked by a cow. 

COWLIKE:  Resembling a cow. With cowlike udders and with oxlike eyes. Pope. 

COWLSTAFF:  A staff or pole on which a vessel is supported between two persons. Suckling. 

COWORKER:  One who works with another; a co  COW PARSLEY Cow" pars`ley (kou` prs`l). (Bot.)  An umbelliferous plant of the genus Chærophyllum (C. temulum and C. sylvestre).  COW PARSNIP Cow" pars`nip (-np). (Bot.)  A coarse umbelliferous weed of the genus Heracleum (H. sphondylium in England, and H. lanatum in America). 

COWPEA:  The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genus Dolichos; also, the plant itself. Many varieties are cultivated in the southern part of the United States.  COWPER'S GLANDS Cow"per's glands` (kou"prz glndz`). Etym: [After the discoverer, William Cowper, an English surgeon.] (Anat.)  Two small glands discharging into the male urethra.  COW-PILOT Cow"-pi`lot (kou"p`lt), n. (Zoöl.)  A handsomely banded, coral-reef fish, of Florida and the West Indies (Pomacentrus saxatilis); -- called also mojarra. 

COWPOCK:  See Cowpox. Dunglison. 

COWPOX:  A pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, when communicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects from the smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, and kinepock. Dunglison. 

COWQUAKE:  A genus of plants (Briza); quaking grass. 

COWRIE:  Same as Kauri.  COWRIE; COWRY Cow"rie Cow"ry (kou"r), n.; pl. Cowries (-r. Etym: [Hind. kaur.] (Zoöl.)  A marine shell of the genus Cypræa.  Note: There are numerous species, many of them ornamental. Formerly C. moneta and several other species were largely used as money in Africa and some other countries, and they are still so used to some extent. The value is always trifling, and varies at different places. 

COWSLIPPED:  Adorned with cowslips. "Cowslipped lawns." Keats.  COW'S LUNGWORT Cow's" lung"wort` (kouz" lng"wrt`).  Mullein.  COW TREE Cow" tree` (kou" tr`). Etym: [Cf. SP. palo de vaca.] (Bot.)  A tree (Galactodendron utile or Brosimum Galactodendron) of South America, which yields, on incision, a nourishing fluid, resembling milk. 

COWWEED:  Same as Cow parsley. 

COWWHEAT:  A weed of the genus Melampyrum, with black seeds, found on European wheatfields. 

COX:  A coxcomb; a simpleton; a gull. [Obs.] Go; you're a brainless cox, a toy, a fop. Beau. & Fl. 

COXA:  The first joint of the leg of an insect or crustacean.  COXALGIA; COXALGY Cox*al"gi*a (-l"j-), Cox"al`gy (kks"l`j), n. Etym: [NL. coxalgia, fr. L. coxa hip. + Gr. coxalgie.] (Med.)  Pain in the hip. 

COXCOMB:  A name given to several plants of different genera, but particularly to Celosia cristata, or garden cockscomb. Same as Cockscomb. 

COXCOMBICAL:  Befitting or indicating a coxcomb; like a coxcomb; foppish; conceited.  -- Cox*comb"ic*al*ly, adv. Studded all over in coxcombical fashion with little brass nails. W. Irving. 

COXCOMBLY:  like a coxcomb. [Obs.] "You coxcombly ass, you!" Beau & Fl. 

COXCOMBRY:  The manners of a coxcomb; foppishness. 

COXCOMICAL:  Coxcombical. [R.] 

COXCOMICALLY:  Conceitedly. [R.] 

COXSWAIN:  See Cockswain. 

COYISH:  Somewhat coy or reserved. Warner. 

COYLY:  In a coy manner; with reserve. 

COYNESS:  The quality of being coy; feigned o When the kind nymph would coyness feign, And hides but to be found again. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Reserve; shrinking; shyness; backwardness; modesty; bashfulness. 

COYOTE:  A carnivorous animal (Canis latrans), allied to the dog, found in the western part of North America; -- called also prairie wolf. Its voice is a snapping bark, followed by a prolonged, shrill howl.  COYOTE STATE Coyote State.  South Dakota; -- a nickname. 

COYOTILLO:  A low rhamnaceous shrub (Karwinskia humboldtiana) of the southwestern United States and Mexico. Its berries are said to be poisonous to the coyote. 

COYPU:  A South American rodent (Myopotamus coypus), allied to the beaver. It produces a valuable fur called nutria. [Written also coypou.] 

COYSTREL:  Same as Coistril. 

COZ:  A contraction of cousin. Shak. 

COZEN:  To cheat; to defrand; to beguile; to deceive, usually by small arts, or in a pitiful way. He had cozened the world by fine phrases. Macualay. Children may be cozened into a knowledge of the letters. Locke. Goring loved no man so well but that he would cozen him, and expose him to public mirth for having been cozened. Clarendon. 

COZEN:  To deceive; to cheat; to act deceitfully. Some cogging,cozening slave. Shak. 

COZENAGE:  The art or practice of cozening; artifice; fraud. Shak. 

COZENER:  One who cheats or defrauds. 

COZIER:  See Cosier. 

COZILY:  Snugly; comfortably. 

COZINESS:  The state or quality of being cozy. 

COZY:  Chatty; talkative; sociable; familiar. [Eng.] 

COZY:  A wadded covering for a teakettle or other vessel to keep the contents hot. 

CRAB:  One of the brachyuran Crustacea. They are mostly marine, and usually have a broad, short body, covered with a strong shell or carapace. The abdomen is small and curled up beneath the body.  Note: The name is applied to all the Brachyura, and to certain Anomura, as the hermit crabs. Formerly, it was sometimes applied to Crustacea in general. Many species are edible, the blue crab of the Atlantic coast being one of the most esteemed. The large European edible crab is Cancer padurus. Soft-shelled crabs are blue crabs that have recently cast their shells. See Cancer; also, Box crab, Fiddler crab, Hermit crab, Spider crab, etc., under Box, Fiddler. etc.  2. The zodiacal constellation Cancer.  3. Etym: [See Crab, a.] (Bot.)  A crab apple; -- so named from its harsh taste. When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl, Then nightly sings the staring owl. Shak.  4. A cudgel made of the wood of the crab tree; a crabstick. [Obs.] Garrick.  5. (Mech.) (a) A movable winch or windlass with powerful gearing, used with derricks, etc. (b) A form of windlass, or geared capstan, for hauling ships into dock, etc. (c) A machine used in ropewalks to stretch the yarn. (d) A claw for anchoring a portable machine. Calling crab. (Zoöl.) See Fiddler., n., 2.  -- Crab apple, a small, sour apple, of several kinds; also, the tree which bears it; as, the European crab apple (Pyrus Malus var.sylvestris); the Siberian crab apple (Pyrus baccata); and the American (Pyrus coronaria).  -- Crab grass. (Bot.) (a) A grass (Digitaria, or Panicum, sanguinalis); -- called also finger grass. (b) A grass of the genus Eleusine (E. Indica); -- called also dog's-tail grass, wire grass, etc.  -- Crab louse (Zoöl.), a species of louse (Phthirius pubis), sometimes infesting the human body.  -- Crab plover (Zoöl.), an Asiatic plover (Dromas ardeola).  -- Crab's eyes, or Crab's stones, masses of calcareous matter found, at certain seasons of the year, on either side of the stomach of the European crawfishes, and formerly used in medicine for absorbent and antacid purposes; the gastroliths.  -- Crab spider (Zoöl.), one of a group of spiders (Laterigradæ); -- called because they can run backwards or sideways like a crab.  -- Crab tree, the tree that bears crab applies.  -- Crab wood, a light cabinet wood obtained in Guiana, which takes a high polish. McElrath.  -- To catch a crab (Naut.), a phrase used of a rower: (a) when he fails to raise his oar clear of the water; (b) when he misses the water altogether in making a stroke. 

CRAB:  To drift sidewise or to leeward, as a vessel. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

CRAB:  Sour; rough; austere. The crab vintage of the neighb'ring coast. Dryden. 

CRABBER:  One who catches crabs. 

CRABBING:  The foghting of hawks with each other.  3. (Woolem Manuf.)  A process of scouring clocth be 

CRABBISH:  Somewhat sour or cross. The wips of the most crabbish Satyristes. Decker. 

CRABBY:  Crabbed; difficult, or perplexing. "Persius is crabby, because ancient." Marston. 

CRABER:  The water rat. Walton. 

CRABFACED:  Having a sour, disagreeable countenance. Beau & Fl. 

CRABSIDLE:  To move sidewise, as a crab. [Jocular]. Southey. 

CRABSTICK:  A stick, cane, or cudgel, made of the wood of the carb tree.  CRAB TREE Crab" tree (tr`).  See under Crab.  CRAB-YAWS Crab"-yaws` (krb"yz`), n. (Med.)  A disease in the West Indies. It is a kind of ulcer on the soles of the feet, with very hard edges. See Yaws. Dunglison. 

CRACHE:  To scratch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CRACK:  Of superior excellence; having qualities to be boasted of. [Colloq.] One of our crack speakers in the Commons. Dickens. 

CRACKAJACK:  Of marked ability or excellence. [Slang]  CRACK-BRAINED Crack"-brained` (-brnd`), a.  Having an impaired intellect; whimsical; crazy. Pope. 

CRACKER:  The pintail duck.  7. pl. (Mach.)  A pair of fluted rolls for grinding caoutchouc. Knight.  CRACKER STATE Cracker State.  Georgia; -- a nickname. See Cracker, n. 5. 

CRACKLE:  To make slight cracks; to make small, sharp, sudden noises, rapidly or frequently repeated; to crepitate; as, burning thorns crackle. The unknown ice that crackles underneath them. Dryden. 

CRACKLE:  A kind of crackling sound or râle, heard in some abnormal states of the lungs; as, dry crackle; moist crackle. Quain.  3. (Fine Arts)  A condition produced in certain porcelain, fine earthenware, or glass, in which the glaze or enamel appears to be cracked in all directions, making a sort of reticulated surface; as, Chinese crackle; Bohemian crackle. 

CRACKLED:  Covered with minute cracks in the glaze; -- said of some kinds of porcelain and fine earthenware. 

CRACKLEWARE:  See Crackle, n., 3. 

CRACKLING:  Food for dogs, made from the refuse of tallow melting.  CRACK-LOO; CRACKALOO Crack"-loo`, n. Also Crack"a*loo` .  A kind of gambling game consisting in pitching coins to or towards the ceiling of a room so that they shall fall as near as possible to a certain crack in the floor. [Gamblers' Cant, U. S.] 

CRACKNEL:  A hard brittle cake or biscuit. Spenser. 

CRACKSMAN:  A burglar. [Slang] 

CRACOVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Cracow in Poland. 

CRACOVIENNE:  A lively Polish dance, in 2-4 time. 

CRACOWES:  Long-toed boots or shoes formerly worn in many parts of Europe; -- so called from Cracow, in Poland, where they were first worn in the fourteenth century. Fairholt. 

CRADLE:  An implement consisting of a broad scythe for cutting grain, with a set of long fingers parallel to the scythe, designed to receive the grain, and to lay it eventlyin a swath.  4. (Engraving)  A tool used in mezzotint engraving, which, by a rocking motion, raises burrs on the surface of the plate, so preparing the ground.  5. A framework of timbers, or iron bars, moving upon ways or rollers, used to support, lift, or carry ships or other vessels, heavy guns, etc., as up an inclined plane, or across a strip of land, or in launching a ship.  6. (Med.) (a) A case for a broken or dislocated limb. (b) A frame to keep the bedclothes from conntact with the person.  7. (Mining) (a) A machine on rockers, used in washing out auriferous earth; -- also called a rocker. [U.S.] (b) A suspended scaffold used in shafts.  8. (Carp.)  The ribbing for vaulted ceilings and arches intended to be covered with plaster. Knight.  9. (Naut.)  The basket or apparatus in which, when a line has been made fast to a wrecked ship from the shore, the people are brought off from the wreck. Cat's cradle. See under Cat.  -- Cradle hole, a sunken place in a road, caused by thawing, or by travel over a soft spot.  -- Cradle scythe, a broad scythe used in a cradle for cutting grain. 

CRADLE:  To lie or lodge, as in a cradle. Withered roots and husks wherein the acorn cradled. Shak. 

CRADLELAND:  Land or region where one was cradled; hence, land of origin. 

CRADLING:  Cutting a cask into two pieces lengthwise, to enable it to pass a narrow place, the two parts being afterward united and rehooped.  3. (Carp.)  The framework in arched or coved ceilings to which the laths are nailed. Knight. 

CRAFT:  A vessel; vessels of any kind; -- generally used in a collective sense. The evolutions of the numerous tiny craft moving over the lake. Prof. Wilson. Small crafts, small vessels, as sloops, schooners, ets. 

CRAFT:  To play tricks; to practice artifice. [Obs.] You have crafted fair. Shak. 

CRAFTER:  a creator of great skill in the manual arts. Syn. -- craftsman. [WordNet 1.5] 

CRAFTILY:  With craft; artfully; cunningly. 

CRAFTINESS:  Dexterity in devising and effecting a purpose; cunning; artifice; stratagem. He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. Job. v. 13. 

CRAFTLESS:  Without craft or cunning. Helpless, craftless, and innocent people. Jer. Taylor. 

CRAFTSMAN:  One skilled in some trade or manual occupation; an artificer; a mechanic. 

CRAFTSMANSHIP:  The work of a craftsman. 

CRAFTSMASTER:  One skilled in his craft or trade; one of superior cunning. In cunning persuasion his craftsmaster. Holland. 

CRAG:  A partially compacted bed of gravel mixed with shells, of the Tertiary age. 

CRAGGED:  Full of crags, or steep, broken Into its cragged rents descend. J. Baillie. 

CRAGGEDNESS:  The quality or state of being cragged; cragginess. 

CRAGGINESS:  The state of being craggy. 

CRAGGY:  Full of crags; rugged with projecting points of rocks; as, the craggy side of a mountain. "The craggy ledge." Tennyson. 

CRAGSMAN:  One accustomed to climb rocks or crags; esp., one who makes a business of climbing the cliffs overhanging the sea to get the eggs of sea birds or the birds themselves. 

CRAIE:  See Crare. [Obs.]  CRAIG FLOUNDER Craig" floun`der (krg" floun`dr). Etym: [Scot. craig a rock. See 1st Crag.] (Zoöl.)  The pole flounder. 

CRAIL:  A creel or osier basket. 

CRAKE:  A boast. See Crack, n. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CRAKE:  Any species or rail of the genera Crex and Porzana; -- so called from its singular cry. See Corncrake. 

CRAKEBERRY:  See Crowberry. 

CRAKER:  One who boasts; a braggart. [Obs.] Old Play. 

CRAM:  A warp having more than two threads passing through each dent or split of the reed. 

CRAMMER:  One who crams; esp., one who prepares a pupil hastily for an exxamination, or a pupil who is thus prepared. Dickens.  CRAMOISIE; CRAMOISY Cra*moi"sie Cra*moi"sy (kr-moi"z), a. Etym: [F. cramoisi crimson. See Crimson.]  Crimson. [Obs.] A splendid seignior, magnificent in cramoisy velevet. Motley. 

CRAMP:  A device, usually of iron bent at the ends, used to hold together blocks of stone, timbers, etc.; a cramp iron.  3. (Carp.)  A rectangular frame, with a tightening screw, used for compressing the jionts of framework, etc.  4. A piece of wood having a curve corresponding to that of the upper part of the instep, on which the upper leather of a boot is stretched to give it the requisite shape.  5. (Med.)  A spasmodic and painful involuntary contraction of a muscle or muscles, as of the leg. The cramp, divers nights, gripeth him in his legs. Sir T. More. Cramp bone, the patella of a sheep; -- formerly used as a charm for the cramp. Halliwell. "He could turn cramp bones into chess men." Dickens.  -- Cramp ring, a ring formerly supposed to have virtue in averting or curing cramp, as having been consecrated by one of the kings of England on Good Friday. 

CRAMP:  Knotty; difficult. [R.] Care being taken not to add any of the cramp reasons for this opinion. Coleridge. 

CRAMPET:  A cramp iron or cramp ring; a chape, as of a scabbard. [Written also crampit and crampette.] 

CRAMPFISH:  The torpedo, or electric ray, the touch of which gives an electric shock. See Electric fish, and Torpedo.  CRAMP IRON Cramp" i`ron (`rn).  See Cramp, n., 2. 

CRAMPIT:  See Crampet. 

CRAMPON:  An a 

CRAMPONEE:  Having a cramp or square piece at the end; -- said of a cross so furnished. 

CRAMPY:  A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel. [Scot.] H. Miller. 

CRANBERRY:  A red, acid berry, much used for making sauce, etc.; also, the plant producing it (several species of Vaccinum or Oxycoccus.) The high cranberry or cranberry tree is a species of Viburnum (V. Opulus), and the other is sometimes called low cranberry or marsh cranberry to distinguish it. 

CRANCH:  See Craunch. 

CRANDALL:  A kind of hammer having a head formed of a group of pointed steel bars, used for dressing ashlar, etc. -- v. t.  To dress with a crandall. 

CRANE:  A wading bird of the genus Grus, and allied genera, of various species, having a long, straight bill, and long legs and neck.  Note: The common European crane is Grus cinerea. The sand-hill crane (G. Mexicana) and the whooping crane (G. Americana) are large American species. The Balearic or crowned crane is Balearica pavonina. The name is sometimes erroneously applied to the herons and cormorants.  2. A machine for raising and lowering heavy weights, and, while holding them suspended, transporting them through a limited lateral distance. In one form it consists of a projecting arm or jib of timber or iron, a rotating post or base, and the necessary tackle, windlass, etc.; -- so called from a fancied similarity between its arm and the neck of a crane See Illust. Of Derrick.  3. An iron arm with horizontal motion, attached to the side or back of a fireplace, for supporting kettles, etc., over a fire.  4. A siphon, or bent pipe, for drawing liquors out of a cask.  5. (Naut.)  A forked post or projecting bracket to support spars, etc., -- generally used in pairs. See Crotch, 2. Crane fly (Zoöl.), a dipterous insect with long legs, of the genus Tipula.  -- Derrick crane. See Derrick.  -- Gigantic crane. (Zoöl.) See Adjutant, n., 3.  -- Traveling crane, Traveler crane, Traversing crane (Mach.), a crane mounted on wheels; esp., an overhead crane consisting of a crab or other hoisting apparatus traveling on rails or beams fixed overhead, as in a machine shop or foundry.  -- Water crane, a kind of hydrant with a long swinging spout, for filling locomotive tenders, water carts, etc., with water. 

CRANE:  to reach forward with head and neck, in order to see better; as, a hunter cranes forward before taking a leap. Beaconsfield. Thackeray. The passengers eagerly craning forward over the bulwarks. Howells.  CRANE'S-BILL Crane's"-bill` (krnz"bl`), n.  1. (Bot.)  The geranium; -- so named from the long axis of the fruit, which resembles the beak of a crane. Dr. Prior.  2. (Surg.)  A pair of long-beaked forceps. 

CRANG:  See Krang. 

CRANIA:  A genus of living Brachiopoda; -- so called from its fancied resemblance to the cranium or skull. 

CRANIAL:  Of or pertaining to the cranium. 

CRANIOCLASM:  The crushing of a child's head, as with the cranioclast or craniotomy forceps in cases of very difficult delivery. Dunglison. 

CRANIOCLAST:  An instrument for crushing the head of a fetus, to facilitate delivery in difficult eases. 

CRANIOFACIAL:  Of or pertaining to the cranium and face; as, the craniofacial angle. 

CRANIOGNOMY:  The science of the form and characteristics of the skull. [R.] 

CRANIOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to craniology. 

CRANIOLOGIST:  One proficient in craniology; a phrenologist. 

CRANIOLOGY:  The department of science (as of ethnology or archæology) which deals with the shape, size, proportions, indications, etc., of skulls; the study of skulls. 

CRANIOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the size of skulls.  CRANIOMETRIC; CRANIOMETRICAL Cra`ni*o*met"ric (--mt"rk), Cra`ni*o*met"ric*al (-r-kal), a.  Pertaining to craniometry. 

CRANIOMETRY:  The art or act of measuring skulls. 

CRANIOSCOPIST:  One skilled in, or who practices, cranioscopy. It was found of equal dimension in a literary man whose skull puzzied the cranioscopists. Coleridge. 

CRANIOSCOPY:  Scientific examination of the cranium. 

CRANIOTA:  A comprehensive division of the Vertebrata, including all those that have a skull. 

CRANIOTOMY:  The operation of opening the fetal head, in order to effect delivery. 

CRANIUM:  The skull of an animal; especially, that part of the skull, either cartilaginous or bony, which immediately incloses the brain; the brain case or brainpan. See Skull. 

CRANK:  A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at right angles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to or received from it; also used to change circular into reciprocating motion, or reciprocating into circular motion. See Bell crank.  2. Any bend, turn, or winding, as of a passage. So many turning cranks these have, so many crooks. Spenser.  3. A twist or turn in speech; a conceit consisting in a change of the form or meaning of a word. Quips, and cranks, and wanton wiles. Milton.  4. A twist or turn of the mind; caprice; whim; crotchet; also, a fit of temper or passion. [Prov. Eng.] Violent of temper; subject to sudden cranks. Carlyle.  5. A person full of crotchets; one given to fantastic or impracticable projects; one whose judgment is perverted in respect to a particular matter. [Colloq.]  6. A sick person; an invalid. [Obs.] Thou art a counterfeit crank, a cheater. Burton. Crank axle (Mach.), a driving axle formed with a crank or cranks, as in some kinds of locomotives.  -- Crank pin (Mach.), the cylindrical piece which forms the handle, or to which the connecting rod is attached, at the end of a crank, or between the arms of a double crank.  -- Crank shaft, a shaft bent into a crank, or having a crank fastened to it, by which it drives or is driven.  -- Crank wheel, a wheel acting as a crank, or having a wrist to which a connecting rod is attached. 

CRANK:  Liable to careen or be overest, as a ship when she is too narrow, or has not sufficient ballast, or is loaded too high, to carry full sail.  3. Full of spirit; brisk; lively; sprightly; overconfident; opinionated. He who was, a little before, bedrid, . . . was now crank and lusty. Udall. If you strong electioners did not think you were among the elect, you would not be so crank about it. Mrs. Stowe. 

CRANK:  To run with a winding course; to double; to crook; to wind and turn. See how this river comes me cranking in. Shak. 

CRANKBIRD:  A small European woodpecker (Picus minor). 

CRANKED:  Formed with, or having, a bend or crank; as, a cranked axle. 

CRANKINESS:  Crankness. Lowell. 

CRANKLE:  To break into bends, turns, or angles; to crinkle. Old Veg's stream . . . drew her humid train aslope, Crankling her banks. J. Philips. 

CRANKLE:  To bend, turn, or wind. Along the crankling path. Drayton. 

CRANKLE:  A bend or turn; a twist; a crinkle. 

CRANKNESS:  Liability to be overset; -- said of a ship or other vessel.  2. Sprightliness; vigor; health. 

CRANNIED:  Having crannies, chinks, or fissures; as, a crannied wall. Tennyson.  CRANNOG; CRANNOGE Cran"nog (krn"ng), Cran"noge (krn"nj), n. Etym: [From Celtic; cf. Gael. crann a tree.]  One of the stockaded islands in Scotland and Ireland which in ancient times were numerous in the lakes of both countries. They may be regarded as the very latest class of prehistoric strongholds, reaching their greatest development in early historic times, and surviving through the Middle Ages. See also Lake dwellings, under Lake. Encyc. Brit. 

CRANNY:  A tool for forming the necks of bottles, etc. 

CRANNY:  Quick; giddy; thoughtless. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

CRANTARA:  The fiery cross, used as a rallying signal in the Highlands of Scotland. 

CRANTS:  A garland carried before the bier of a maiden. [Obs.] Yet here she is allowed her virgin crants, Her maaiden strewments. Shak. 

CRAP:  In the game of craps, a first throw of the dice in which the total is two, three, or twelve, in which case the caster loses. 

CRAPAUD:  A toad. [Obs.]  2.  (Pronounced kra`po") As a proper name, Johnny Crapaud, or Crapaud, a nickname for a Frenchman. 

CRAPAUDINE:  Turning on pivots at the top and bottom; -- said of a door. 

CRAPAUDINE:  An ulcer on the coronet of a horse. Bailey. 

CRAPE:  A thin, crimped stuff, made of raw silk gummed and twisted on the mill. Black crape is much used for mourning garments, also for the dress of some clergymen. A saint in crape is twice a saint in lawn. Pope. Crape myrtle (Bot.), a very ornamental shrub (Lagerströmia Indica) from the East Indies, often planted in the Southern United States. Its foliage is like that of the myrtle, and the flower has wavy crisped petals.  -- Oriental crape. See Canton crape. 

CRAPE:  To form into ringlets; to curl; to crimp; to friz; as, to crape the hair; to crape silk. The hour for curling and craping the hair. Mad. D'Arblay. 

CRAPEFISH:  Salted codfish hardened by pressure. Kane. 

CRAPNEL:  A hook or drag; a grapnel. 

CRAPPIE:  A kind of fresh-water bass of the genus Pomoxys, found in the rivers of the Southern United States and Mississippi valley. There are several species. [Written also croppie.] 

CRAPPLE:  A claw. [Obs.] 

CRAPS:  A gambling game with dice. [Local, U.S.]  CRAP SHOOTING Crap shooting.  Same as Craps.  CRAPULA; CRAPULE Crap"u*la (krp"-l), Crap"ule (krp"l), n. Etym: [L. crapula intoxication.]  Same as Crapulence. 

CRAPULENCE:  The sickness occasioned by intemperance; surfeit. Bailey.  CRAPULENT; CRAPULOUS Crap"u*lent (-lent), Crap"u*lous (-ls), a. Etym: [L. crapulentus, crapulosus: cf. F. crapuleux.]  Surcharged with liquor; sick from excessive indulgence in liquor; drunk; given to excesses. [R.] 

CRAPY:  Resembling crape. 

CRARE:  A slow unwieldy trading vessel. [Obs.] [Written also crayer, cray, and craie.] Shak. 

CRASE:  To break in pieces; to crack. [Obs.] "The pot was crased." Chaucer. 

CRASH:  To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise and violence. [R.] He shakt his head, and crasht his teeth for ire. Fairfax. 

CRASH:  Coarse, heavy, narrow linen cloth, used esp. for towels. 

CRASHING:  The noise of many things falling and breaking at once. There shall be . . . a great crashing from the hills. Zeph. i. 10. 

CRASIS:  A mixture of constituents, as of the blood; constitution; temperament.  2. (Gram.)  A contraction of two vowels (as the final and initial vowels of united words) into one long vowel, or into a dipthong; synæresis; as, cogo for coago. 

CRASPEDOTA:  The hydroid or naked-eyed medusæ. See Hydroidea. 

CRASPEDOTE:  Of or pertaining to the Craspedota. 

CRASS:  Cross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined. "Crass and fumid exhalations." Sir. T. Browne. "Crass ignorance" Cudworth.  CRASSAMENT; CRASSAMENTUM Cras"sa*ment (krs"s-ment), Cras`sa*men"tum (-mn"tm), n. Etym: [L. crassamentum, fr. crassare to make thick. See Crass, a.]  A semisolid mass or clot, especially that formed in coagulation of the blood. 

CRASSIMENT:  See Crassament. 

CRASSITUDE:  Crossness; coarseness; thickness; density. Bacon. 

CRASSNESS:  Grossness. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

CRASTINATION:  Procrastination; a putting off till to-morrow. [Obs.] 

CRATAEGUS:  A genus of small, hardy trees, including the hawthorn, much used for ornamental purposes. 

CRATCH:  A manger or open frame for hay; a crib; a rack. [Obs.] Begin from first where He encradled was, In simple cratch, wrapt in a wad of hay. Spenser. Cratch cradle, a representation of the figure of the cratch, made upon the fingers with a string; cat's cradle; -- called also scratch cradle. 

CRATE:  To pack in a crate or case for transportation; as, to crate a sewing machine; to crate peaches. 

CRATER:  The pit left by the explosion of a mine.  3. (Astron.)  A constellation of the southen hemisphere; -- called also the Cup. 

CRATERIFORM:  Having the form of a shallow bowl; -- said of a corolla. 

CRATEROUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a crater. [R.] R. Browning. 

CRAUNCH:  To crush with the teeth; to chew with violence and noise; to crunch. Swift. 

CRAVAT:  A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, worn by men about the neck. While his wig was combed and his cravat tied. Macualay. 

CRAVATTED:  Wearing a cravat. The young men faultlessly appointed, handsomely cravatted. Thackeray. 

CRAVE:  To desire strongly; to feel an insatiable longing; as, a craving appetite. Once one may crave for love. Suckling. 

CRAVEN:  Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless. "His craven heart." Shak. The poor craven bridegroom said never a word. Sir. W. Scott. In craven fear of the sarcasm of Dorset. Macualay. 

CRAVEN:  A recreant; a coward; a weak-hearted, spiritless fellow. See Recreant, n. King Henry. Is it fit this soldier keep his oath Fluellen.He is a craven and a villain else. Shak.  Syn.  -- Coward; poltroon; dastard. 

CRAVEN:  To make recreant, weak, spiritless, or cowardly. [Obs.] There is a prohibition so divine, That cravens my weak hand. Shak. 

CRAVER:  One who craves or begs. 

CRAVING:  Vehement or urgent desire; longing for; beseeching. A succession of cravings and satiety. L'Estrange. -- Crav"ing*ly, adv.  -- Crav"ing*ness, n. 

CRAW:  Any crustacean of the family Astacidæ, resembling the lobster, but smaller, and found in fresh waters. Crawfishes are esteemed very delicate food both in Europe and America. The North American species are numerous and mostly belong to the genus Cambarus. The blind crawfish of the Mamoth Cave is Cambarus pellucidus. The common European species is Astacus fluviatilis. 

CRAWFORD:  A Crawford peach; a well-known freestone peach, wich yellow flesh, first raised by Mr. William Crawford, of New Jersey. 

CRAWL:  The act or motion of crawling; 

CRAWL:  A pen or inclosure of stakes and hurdles on the seacoast, for holding fish. 

CRAWLER:  One who, or that which, crawls; a creeper; a reptile.  CRAWL STROKE Crawl stroke. (Swimming)  A racing stroke, in which the swimmer, lying flat on the water with face submerged, takes alternate overhand arm strokes while moving his legs up and down alternately from the knee. 

CRAWLY:  Creepy. [Colloq.]  CRAY; CRAYER Cray (kr), Cray"er (-r), n.  See Crare. [Obs.] 

CRAYFISH:  See Crawfish. 

CRAYON:  A pencil of carbon used in producing electric light. Crayon board, cardboard with a surface prepared for crayon drawing.  -- Crayon drawing, the act or art of drawing with crayons; a drawing made with crayons. 

CRAYON:  To sketch, as with a crayon; to sketch or plan. He soon afterwards composed that discourse, conformably to the plan which he had crayoned out. Malone. 

CRAZEDNESS:  A broken state; decrepitude; an impaired state of the intellect.  CRAZE-MILL; CRAZING-MILL Craze"-mill` (krz"m*l`), Craz"ing-mill` (kr"zng-), n. Etym: [See 1st Craze.]  A mill for grinding tin ore. 

CRAZILY:  In a crazy manner. 

CREABLE:  Capable of being created. [Obs.] I. Watts. 

CREAGHT:  A drove or herd. [Obs.] Haliwell. 

CREAGHT:  To graze. [Obs.] Sir. L. Davies. 

CREAK:  To make a prolonged sharp grating or ssqueaking sound, as by the friction of hard substances; as, shoes creak. The creaking locusts with my voice conspire. Dryden. Doors upon their hinges creaked. Tennyson. 

CREAK:  To produce a creaking sound with. Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry. Shak. 

CREAK:  Thew sound produced by anuthing that creaks; a creaking. Roget. 

CREAKING:  A harsh grating or squeaking sound, or the act of making such a sound. Start not at the creaking of the door. Longfellow. 

CREAM:  To form or become covered with cream; to become thick like cream; to assume the appearance of cream; hence, to grow stiff or formal; to mantle. There are a sort of men whose visages Do cream and mantle like a standing pool. Shak. 

CREAMCAKE:  A kind of cake filled with custard made of cream, eggs, etc.  CREAM-COLORED Cream"-col`ored (-kl`rd), a.  Of the color of cream; light yellow. "Cream-colored horses." Hazlitt. 

CREAMERY:  White or pale, as the effect of fear, or as the natural complexion. Thou cream-faced loon. Shak.  CREAM-FRUIT Cream"-fruit` (krm"frt`), n. (Bot.)  A plant of Sierra Leone which yields a wholesome, creamy juice. 

CREAMINESS:  The quality of being creamy.  CREAM LAID Cream" laid` (krm" ld`).  See under Laid.  CREAM-SLICE Cream"-slice` (-sls`), n.  A wooden knife with a long thin blade, used in handling cream or ice cream.  CREAM-WHITE Cream"-white` (-hwt`), a.  As white as cream. 

CREAMY:  Full of, or containing, cream; resembling cream, in nature, appearance, or taste; creamlike; unctuous. "Creamy bowis." Collins. "Lines of creamy spray." Tennyson. "Your creamy words but cozen." Beau & Fl. 

CREANCE:  A fine, small line, fastened to a hawk's leash, when it is first lured. 

CREANCE:  To get on credit; to borrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CREANT:  Creative; formative. [R.] Mrs. Browning. 

CREASE:  See Creese. Tennison. 

CREASE:  One of the lines serving to define the limits of the bowler and the striker. Bowling crease (Cricket), a line extending three feet four inches on each side of the central strings at right angles to the line between the wickets.  -- Return crease (Cricket), a short line at each end of the bowling crease and at right angles to it, extending toward the bowler.  -- Popping crease (Cricket),, a line drawn in front of the wicket, four feet distant from it, parallel to the bowling crease and at least as long as the latter. J. H. Walsh (Encyc. of Rural Sports). 

CREASE:  To make a crease or mark in, as by folding or doubling. Creased, like dog's ears in a folio. Gray. 

CREASER:  A tool for making the band impression distinct on the back. Knight. 

CREASING:  A layer of tiles forming a corona for a wall. 

CREASOTE:  See Creosote. 

CREASY:  Full of creases. Tennyson. 

CREAT:  An usher to a riding master. 

CREATABLE:  That may be created. 

CREATE:  Created; composed; begotte. [Obs.] Hearts create of duty and zeal. Shak. 

CREATIC:  Relating to, or produced by, flesh or animal food; as, creatic nausea. [Written also kreatic.] 

CREATIN:  A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance found abundantly in muscle tissue. [Written also kreatine.] 

CREATININ:  A white, crystalline, nitrogenous body closely related to creatin but more basic in its properties, formed from the latter by the action of acids, and occurring naturally in muscle tissue and in urine. [Written also kretinine.] 

CREATIONAL:  Of or pertaining to creation. 

CREATIONISM:  The doctrine that a soul is specially created for each human being as soon as it is formed in the womb; -- opposed to traducianism. 

CREATIVE:  Having the power to create; exerting the act of creation. "Creative talent." W. Irving. The creative force exists in the germ. Whewell. 

CREATIVENESS:  The qualiyu of being creative. 

CREATOR:  One who creates, produces, or constitutes. Specifically, the Supreme Being. To sin's rebuke and my Creater's praise. Shak. The poets and artists of Greece, who are at the same time its prophets, the creators of its divinities, and the revealers of its theological beliefs. Caird. 

CREATORSHIP:  State or condition of a creator. 

CREATRESS:  She who creates. Spenser. 

CREATRIX:  A creatress. [R.] 

CREATURAL:  Belonging to a creature; having the qualities of a creature. [R.] 

CREATURELESS:  Without created beings; alone. God was alone And creatureless at first. Donne. 

CREATURELY:  Creatural; characteristic of a creature. [R.] "Creaturely faculties." Cheyne. 

CREATURESHIP:  The condition of being a creature. 

CREATURIZE:  To make like a creature; to degrade [Obs.] Degrade and creaturize that mundane soul. Cudworth. 

CREAZE:  The tin ore which collects in the central part of the washing pit or buddle. 

CREBRICOSTATE:  Marked with closely set ribs or ridges. 

CREBRISULCATE:  Marked with closely set transverse furrows. 

CREBRITUDE:  Frequency. [Obs.] Bailey. 

CREBROUS:  Frequent; numerous. [Obs.] Goodwin. 

CRECHE:  A public nursery, where the young children of poor women are cared for during the day, while their mothers are at work. 

CREDENCE:  The small table by the side of the altar or communion table, on which the bread and wine are placed before being consecrated.  4. A cupboard, sideboard, or cabinet, particularly one intended for the display of rich vessels or plate, and consisting chiefly of open shelves for that purpose. 

CREDENCE:  To give credence to; to believe. [Obs.] 

CREDENDUM:  A thing to be believed; an article of faith; -- distinguished from agendum, a practical duty. The great articles and credenda of Christianity. South. 

CREDENTIAL:  Giving a title or claim to credit or confidence; accrediting. Their credential letters on both sides. Camden. 

CREDENTIAL:  Testimonials showing that a person is entitled to credit, or has right to exercise official power, as the letters given by a government to an ambassador or envoy, or a certificate that one is a duly elected delegate. The committee of estates excepted against the credentials of the English commissioners. Whitelocke. Had they not shown undoubted credentials from the Divine Person who sent them on such a message. Addison. 

CREDIBILITY:  The quality of being credible; credibleness; as, the credibility of facts; the credibility of witnesses. 

CREDIBLE:  Capable of being credited or believed; worthy of belief; entiled to confidence; trustworthy. Things are made credible either by the known condition and quality of the utterer or by the manifest likelihood of truth in themselves. Hooker. A very diligent and observing person, and likewise very sober and credible. Dampier. 

CREDIBLENESS:  The quality or state of being credible; worthness of belief; credibility. [R.] Boyle. 

CREDIBLY:  In a manner inducing belief; as, I have been credibly informed of the event. 

CREDIT:  Trust given or received; expectation of future playment for property transferred, or of fulfillment or promises given; mercantile reputation entitling one to be trusted; -- applied to individuals, corporations, communities, or nations; as, to buy goods on credit. Credit is nothing but the expectation of money, within some limited time. Locke.  7. The time given for payment for lands or goods sold on trust; as, a long credit or a short credit.  8. (Bookkeeping)  The side of an account on which are entered all items reckoned as values received from the party or the category named at the head of the account; also, any one, or the sum, of these items; -- the opposite of debit; as, this sum is carried to one's credit, and that to his debit; A has several credits on the books of B. Bank credit, or Cash credit. See under Cash.  -- Bill of credit. See under Bill.  -- Letter of credit, a letter or notification addressed by a banker to his correspondent, informing him that the person named therein is entitled to draw a certain sum of money; when addressed to several different correspondents, or when the money can be drawn in fractional sums in several different places, it is called a circular letter of credit.  -- Public credit. (a) The reputation of, or general confidence in, the ability or readiness of a government to fulfull its pecuniary engagements. (b) The ability and fidelity of merchants or others who owe largely in a community. He touched the dead corpse of Public Credit, and it sprung upon its feet. D. Webster. 

CREDIT:  To enter upon the credit side of an account; to give credit for; as, to credit the amount paid; to set to the credit of; as, to credit a man with the interest paid on a bond. To credit with, to give credit for; to assign as justly due to any one. Crove, Helmholtz, and Meyer, are more than any others to be credited with the clear enunciation of this doctrine. Newman. 

CREDITABLENESS:  The quality of being creditable. 

CREDITABLY:  In a creditable manner; reputably; with credit.  CREDIT FONCIER Cre`dit" fon`cier" (krd" fn`s"). Etym: [F. cr credit & foncier relating to land, landed.]  A company licensed for the purpose of carrying out improvements, by means of loans and advances upon real securities. ]  CREDIT MOBILIER Cre`dit" mo`bi`lier" (m`b`ly"). Etym: [F. cr credit & mobilier personal, pertaining to personal property.]  A joint stock company, formed for general banking business, or for the construction of public works, by means of loans on personal estate, after the manner of the crédit foncier on real estate. In practice, however, this distinction has not been strictly observed. 

CREDITOR:  A female creditor. 

CREDO:  The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church. He repeated Aves and Credos. Macualay. 

CREDULITY:  Readiness of belief; a disposition to believe on slight evidence. That implict credulity is the mark of a feeble mind will not be disputed. Sir W. Hamilton. 

CREDULOUSLY:  With credulity. 

CREDULOUSNESS:  Readiness to believe on slight evidence; credulity. Beyond all credulity is the credulousness of atheists. S. Clarke. 

CREED:  To believe; to credit. [Obs.] That part which is so creeded by the people. Milton. 

CREEDLESS:  Without a creed. Carlyle. 

CREEKFISH:  The chub sucker. 

CREEKS:  A tribe or confederacy of North American Indians, including the Muskogees, Seminoles, Uchees, and other subordinate tribes. They formerly inhabited Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. 

CREEKY:  Containing, or abounding in, creeks; characterized by creeks; like a creek; winding. "The creeky shore." Spenser. 

CREEL:  A bar or set of bars with skewers for holding paying-off bobbins, as in the roving machine, throstle, and mule. 

CREEP:  A slow rising of the floor of a gallery, occasioned by the pressure of incumbent strata upon the pillars or sides; a gradual movement of mining ground. 

CREEPER:  A plant that clings by rootlets, or by tendrils, to the ground, or to trees, etc.; as, the Virginia creeper (Ampelopsis quinquefolia).  3. (Zoöl.)  A small bird of the genus Certhia, allied to the wrens. The brown or common European creeper is C. familiaris, a variety of which (var. Americana) inhabits America; -- called also tree creeper and creeptree. The American black and white creeper is Mniotilta varia.  4. A kind of patten mounted on short pieces of iron instead of rings; also, a fixture with iron points worn on a shoe to prevent one from slipping.  5. pl.  A spurlike device strapped to the boot, which enables one to climb a tree or pole; -- called often telegraph creepers.  6. A small, low iron, or dog, between the andirons.  7. pl.  An instrument with iron hooks or claws for dragging at the bottom of a well, or any other body of water, and bringing up what may lie there.  8. Any device for causing material to move steadily from one part of a machine to another, as an apron in a carding machine, or an inner spiral in a grain screen.  9. pl. (Arch.)  Crockets. See Crocket. 

CREEPIE:  A low stool. [Scot.] 

CREEPINESS:  An uneasy sensation as of insects creeping on the skin. She felt a curious, uneasy creepiness. Mrs. Alexander. 

CREEPING:  The stonecrop (Sedum acre). 

CREEPINGLY:  by creeping slowly; in the manner of a reptile; insidiously; cunningly. How slily and creepingly did he address himself to our first parents. South. 

CREEPY:  Crawly; having or producing a sensation like that caused by insects creeping on the skin. [Colloq.] One's whole blood grew curdling and creepy. R. Browning. 

CREES:  An Algonquin tribe of Indians, inhabiting a large part of British America east of the Rocky Mountains and south of Hudson's Bay. 

CREESE:  A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having a serpentine blade. [Written also crease and kris.] From a Malayan creese to a sailor's jackknife. Julian Hawthorne. 

CREMAILLERE:  An indented or zigzaged line of intrenchment. 

CREMASTER:  A thin muscle which serves to draw up the testicle.  2. (Zoöl.)  The apex of the last abdominal segment of an insect. 

CREMASTERIC:  Of or pertaining to the cremaster; as, the cremasteric artery. 

CREMATE:  To burn; to reduce to ashes by the action of fire, either directly or in an oven or retort; to incremate or incinerate; as, to cremate a corpse, instead of burying it. 

CREMATION:  A burning; esp., the act or practice of cremating the dead. Without cremation . . . of their bodies. Sir T. Browne. 

CREMATIONIST:  One who advocates the practice of cremation. 

CREMATOR:  One who, or that which, cremmates or consumes to ashes.  CREMATORIUM; CREMATORY Crem`a*to"ri*um (krm`-t"r-m), Crem"a*to*ry (krm"-t-r), n.; pl. Crematoriums (-Crematories (-r. Etym: [NL. crematorium, fr. L. cremator.]  A furnace for cremating corpses; a building containing such a furnace. 

CREMATORY:  Pertaining to, or employed in, cremation. 

CREME:  Cream; -- a term used esp. in cookery, names of liqueurs, etc. 

CREMOCARP:  The peculiar fruit of fennel, carrott, parsnip, and the like, consisting of a pair of carpels pendent from a supporting axis. 

CREMONA:  A superior kind of violin, formerly made at Cremona, in Italy. 

CREMOR:  Cream; a substance resembling cream; yeast; scum. 

CREMOSIN:  See Crimson. [Obs.] 

CREMS:  See Krems.  CRENATE; CRENATED Cre"nate (krnt), Cre"na*ted (kr"n-td), a. Etym: [L. crena notch. See Cranny.] (Bot.)  Having the margin cut into rounded teeth notches, or scallops. 

CRENATION:  A rounded tooth on the edge of a leaf.  2. The condition of being crenate. 

CRENATURE:  A rounded tooth or notch of a crenate leaf, or any part that is crenate; -- called also crenelle.  2. The state of being crenated or notched. 

CRENEL:  See Crenelle. 

CRENELATION:  The act of crenelating, or the state of being crenelated; an indentation or an embrasure. [Written also crenellation.]  CRENELLE; CRENEL Cre*nelle", Cre*nel" (kr-nl"), n. Etym: [OF. crenel, F. cr, LL. crenellus, kernellus, dim. (prob.) fr. L. crena notch. See Crenny.]  1. An embrasure or indentation in a battlement; a loophole in a fortress; an indentation; a notch. See Merlon, and Illust. of Battlement.  2. (Bot.)  Same as Crenature. 

CRENELLED:  Same as Crenate.  CRENGLE; CRENKLE Cren"gle (krn"g'l), Cren"kle (-k'l), n.  See Cringle.  CRENULATE; CRENULATED Cren"u*late (krn"-lt), Cren"u*la`ted (-l`td), a. Etym: [Dim. of crenate.] (Bot.)  Minutely crenate. 

CREOLE:  One born of European parents in the American colonies of France or Spain or in the States which were once such colonies, esp. a person of French or Spanish descent, who is a native inhabitant of Louisiana, or one of the States adjoining, bordering on the Gulf of of Mexico.  Note: "The term creole negro is employed in the English West Indies to distinguish the negroes born there from the Africans imported during the time of the slave trade. The application of this term to the colored people has led to an idea common in some parts of the United States, though wholly unfounded, that it implies an admixture greater or less of African blood." R. Hildreth.  Note: "The title [Creole] did not first belong to the descendants of Spanish, but of French, settlers, But such a meaning implied a certain excellence of origin, and so came early to include any native of French or Spanish descent by either parent, whose nonalliance with the slave race entitled him to social rank. Later, the term was adopted by, not conceded to, the natives of mixed blood, and is still so used among themselves. . . . Besides French and Spanish, there are even, for convenience of speech, 'colored' Creoles; but there are no Italian, or Sicilian, nor any English, Scotch, Irish, or 'Yankee' Creoles, unless of parentage married into, and themselves thoroughly proselyted in, Creole society." G. W. Cable. 

CREOLE:  Of or pertaining to a Creole or the Creoles.  Note: In New Orleans the word Creole is applied to any product, or variety of manufacture, peculiar to Louisiana; as, Creole ponies, chickens, cows, shoes, eggs, wagons, baskets, etc.  CREOLEAN; CREOLIAN Cre*o"le*an (kr-"l-an), Cre*o"li*an, a.  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Creoles.  -- n.  A Creole.  CREOLE STATE Creole State.  Louisiana; -- a nickname. See Creole, n. & a. 

CREOSOL:  A colorless liquid resembling phenol or carbolic acid, homologous with pyrocatechin, and obtained from beechwood tar and gum guaiacum. [Written also creasol.] 

CREOSOTE:  Wood-tar oil; an oily antiseptic liquid, of a burning smoky taste, colorless when pure, but usually colored yellow or brown by impurity or exposure. It is a complex mixture of various phenols and their ethers, and is obtained by the distillation of wood tar, especially that of beechwood.  Note: It is remarkable as an antiseptic and deodorizer in the preservation of wood, flesh, etc., and in the prevention of putrefaction; but it is a poor germicide, and in this respect has been overrated. Smoked meat, as ham, owes its preservation and taste to a small quantity of creosote absorbed from the smoke to which it is exposed. Carbolic acid is phenol proper, while creosote is a mixture of several phenols. Coal-tar creosote (Chem.), a colorless or yellow, oily liquid, obtained in the distillation of coal tar, and resembling wood-tar oil, or creosote proper, in composition and properties. 

CREOSOTE:  To saturate or impregnate with creosote, as timber, for the prevention of decay.  CREOSOTE BUSH Cre"o*sote bush.  A shrub (Covillea mexicana) found in desert regions from Colorado to California and southward through Mexico. It has yellow flowers and very resinous foliage with a strong odor of creosote.  CREPANCE; CREPANE Cre"pance (kr"pans), Cre"pane (kr"pn), n. Etym: [Cf. L. crepare to crack.] (Far.)  An injury in a horse's leg, caused by the shoe of one hind foot striking and cutting the other leg. It sometimes forms an ulcer. 

CREPE:  Same as Crape. 

CREPITANT:  Having a crackling sound; crackling; rattling. Crepitant rale (Med.), a peculiar crackling sound audible with inspiration in pneumonia and other lung disease. 

CREPITATE:  To make a series of small, sharp, rapidly repeated explosions or sounds, as salt in fire; to crackle; to snap. 

CREPON:  A thin stuff made of the finest wool or silk, or of wool and silk. 

CREPT:  imp. & p. p. of Creep.  CREPUSCLE; CREPUSCULE Cre*pus"cle (kr-ps"s'l), Cre*pus"cule (kr-ps"kl), n. Etym: [L. crepusculum, fr. creper dusky, dark: cf. F. cr.]  Twilight. Bailey.  CREPUSCULAR; CREPUSCULOUS Cre*pus"cu*lar (-k-lr), Cre*pus"cu*lous (-ls), a. Etym: [Cf. F. cr.]  1. Pertaining to twilight; glimmering; hence, imperfectly clear or luminous. This semihistorical and crepuscular period. Sir G. C. Lewis.  2. (Zoöl.)  Flying in the twilight or evening, or before sunrise; -- said certain birds and insects. Others feed only in the twilight, as bats and owls, and are called crepuscular. Whewell. 

CREPUSCULINE:  Crepuscular. [Obs.] Sprat. 

CRESCENCE:  Increase; enlargement. [Obs.] And toward the moon's attractive crescence bend. H. Brooke. 

CRESCENDO:  With a constantly increasing volume of voice; with gradually increasing strength and fullness of tone; -- a direction for the performance of music, indicated by the mark, or by writing the word on the score. 

CRESCENT:  The emblem of the increasing moon with horns directed upward, when used in a coat of arms; -- often used as a mark of cadency to distinguish a second son and his descendants. 

CRESCENTIC:  Crescent-shaped. "Crescentic lobes." R. Owen. 

CRESCENTWISE:  In the form of a crescent; like a crescent. Tennyson. 

CRESCIVE:  Increasing; growing. [R.] Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty. Shak. 

CRESOL:  Any one of three metameric substances, CH3.C6H4.OH, homologous with and resembling phenol. They are obtained from coal tar and wood tar, and are colorless, oily liquids or solids.  Note: [Called also cresylic acid.] 

CRESORCIN:  Same as Isorcin. 

CRESS:  A plant of various species, chiefly cruciferous. The leaves have a moderately pungent taste, and are used as a salad and antiscorbutic.  Note: The garden cress, called also peppergrass, is the Lepidium sativum; the water cress is the Nasturtium officinale. Various other plants are sometimes called cresses. To strip the brook with mantling cresses spread. Goldsmith. Bitter cress. See under Bitter.  -- Not worth a cress, or "not worth a kers." a common old proverb, now turned into the meaningless "not worth a curse." Skeat. 

CRESSELLE:  A wooden rattle sometimes used as a substitute for a bell, in the Roman Catholic church, during the latter part of Holy Week, or the last week of Lent. 

CRESSET:  A small furnace or iron cage to hold fire for charring the inside of a cask, and making the staves flexible. Knight. 

CRESSY:  Abounding in cresses. The cressy islets white in flower. Tennyson. 

CREST:  A bearing worn, not upon the shield, but usually above it, or separately as an ornament for plate, liveries, and the like. It is a relic of the ancient cognizance. See Cognizance, 4.  4. The upper curve of a horse's neck. Throwing the base thong from his bending crest. Shak.  5. The ridge or top of wave. Like wave with crest of sparkling foam. Sir W. Scott.  6. The summit of a hill or mountain ridge.  7. The helm or head, as typical of a high spirit; pride; courage. Now the time is come That France must vail her lofty plumed crest. Shak.  8. (Arch.)  The ornamental finishing which surmounts the ridge of a roof, canopy, etc. The finials of gables and pinnacles are sometimes called crest. Parker.  9. (Engin.)  The top line of a slope or embankment. Crest tile, a tile made to cover the ridge of a roof, fitting upon it like a saddle.  -- Interior crest (Fort.), the highest line of the parapet. 

CREST:  To form a crest. 

CRESTED:  Having a crest of feathers or hair upon the head. "The crested bird." Dryden.  3. (Bott.)  Bearing any elevated appendage like a crest, as an elevated line or ridge, or a tuft. Gray. 

CRESTING:  An ornamental finish on the top of a wall or ridge of a roof. 

CRESTLESS:  Without a crest or escutcheon; of low birth. "Crestless yeomen." Shak. 

CRESYLIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, cresol, creosote, etc. Cresylic acid. (Chem.) See Cresol. 

CRETACEOUS:  Having the qualities of chalk;abounding with chalk; chalky; as, cretaceous rocks and formations. See Chalk. Cretaceous acid, an old name for carbonic acid.  -- Cretaceous formation (Geol.), the series of strata of various kinds, including beds of chalk, green sand, etc., formed in the Cretaceous period; -- called also the chalk formation. See the Diagram under Geology.  -- Cretaceous period (Geol.), the time in the latter part of the Mesozoic age during which the Cretaceous formation was deposited.  CRETACEOUS; CRETACIC Cre*ta"ceous, a. Also Cre*tac"ic. (Geol.)  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the period of time following the Jurassic and preceding the Eocene. 

CRETACEOUSLY:  In a chalky manner; as chalk. 

CRETAN:  Pertaining to Crete, or Candia.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Crete or Candia. 

CRETE:  A Cretan 

CRETIAN:  See Cretan. 

CRETIC:  A poetic foot, composed of one short syllable between two long ones (-Bentley. 

CRETICISM:  Falsehood; lying; cretism. 

CRETIN:  One afflicted with cretinism. 

CRETINISM:  A condition of endemic or inherited idiocy, accompanied by physical degeneracy and deformity (usually with goiter), frequent in certain mountain valleys, esp. of the Alps. 

CRETINOUS:  Having the characteristics of a cretin. "Cretinous stupefaction." Ruskin. 

CRETISM:  A Cretan practice; iying; a falsehood. 

CRETOSE:  Chalky; cretaceous. [Obs.] Ash. 

CREUTZER:  (kroitn. See Kreutzer. 

CREUX:  Used in English only in the expression en creux. Thus, engraving en creux is engraving in intaglio, or by sinking or hollowing out the design. 

CREVET:  A crucible or melting pot; a cruset. Crabb. 

CREVICE:  A narrow opening resulting from a split or crack or the separation of a junction; a cleft; a fissure; a rent. The mouse, Behind the moldering wainscot, shrieked, Or from the crevice peered about. Tennyson. 

CREVICE:  To crack; to flaw. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. 

CREVICED:  Having a crevice or crevices; as, a creviced structure for storing ears of corn. Trickling through the creviced rock. J. Cunningham. 

CREVIS:  The crawfish. [Prov. Eng.] 

CREW:  The Manx shearwater. 

CREW:  imp. of Crow. 

CREWEL:  Worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery. 

CREWELWORK:  Embroidery in crewels, commonly done upon some plain material, such as linen. 

CREWET:  See Cruet. 

CRIB:  A structure or frame of timber for a foundation, or for supporting a roof, or for lining a shaft.  7. A structure of logs to be anchored with stones; -- used for docks, pier, dams, etc.  8. A small raft of timber. [Canada]  9. A small theft; anything purloined;; a plagiaris [Colloq.] The Latin version technically called a crib. Ld. Lytton. Occasional perusal of the Pagan writers, assisted by a crib. Wilkie Collins.  10. A miner's luncheon. [Cant] Raymond.  11. (Card Playing)  The discarded cards which the dealer can use in scoring points in cribbage. 

CRIBBAGE:  A game of cards, played by two or four persons, in which there is a crib. (See Crib, 11.) It is characterized by a great variety of chances. A man's fancy would be summed up in cribbage. John Hall. Cribbage board, a board with holes and pegs, used by cribbage players to score their game.  CRIBBER; CRIB-BITER Crib"ber (krb"r), Crib"-bit`er (-bt"r), n.  A horse that has the habit of cribbing. 

CRIBBING:  A framework of timbers and plank backing for a shaft lining, to prevent caving, percolation of water, etc.  4. A vicious habit of a horse; crib-biting. The horse lays hold of the crib or manger with his teeth and draws air into the stomach with a grunting sound.  CRIB-BITING Crib"-bit`ing (krb"bt`ng), n.  Same as Cribbing, 4. 

CRIBBLE:  To cause to pass through a sieve or riddle; to sift. 

CRIBBLE:  Coarse; as, cribble bread. [Obs.] Huloet. 

CRIBELLUM:  A peculiar perforated organ of certain spiders (Ciniflonidæ), used for spinning a special kind of silk. 

CRIBRATE:  Cribriform. 

CRIBRATION:  The act or process of separating the finer parts of drugs from the coarser by sifting. 

CRIBRIFORM:  Resembling, or having the form of, a sieve; pierced with hokes; as, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; a cribriform compress. Cribriform cells (Bot.), those which have here and there oblique or transverse sieve plates, or places perforated with many holes. 

CRIBROSE:  Perforated like a sieve; cribriform. 

CRIC:  The ring which turns inward and condenses the flame of a lamp. Knight. 

CRICK:  The creaking of a door, or a noise resembling it. [Obs.] Johnson. 

CRICK:  A small jackscrew. Knight. 

CRICKET:  An orthopterous insect of the genus Gryllus, and allied genera. The males make chirping, musical notes by rubbing together the basal parts of the veins of the front wings.  Note: The common European cricket is Gryllus domesticus; the common large black crickets of America are G. niger, G. neglectus, and others. Balm cricket. See under Balm.  -- Cricket bird, a small European bird (Silvia locustella); -- called also grasshopper warbler.  -- Cricket frog, a small American tree frog (Acris gryllus); -- so called from its chirping. 

CRICKET:  A small false roof, or the raising of a portion of a roof, so as to throw off water from behind an obstacle, such as a chimney. 

CRICKET:  To play at cricket. Tennyson. 

CRICKETER:  One who plays at cricket. 

CRICOID:  Resembling a ring; -- said esp. of the cartilage at the larynx, and the adjoining parts. 

CRICOTHYROID:  Of or pertaining both to the cricoid and the thyroid cartilages. 

CRIED:  imp. & p. p. of Cry. 

CRIER:  One who cries; one who makes proclamation. Specifically, an officer who proclams the orders or directions of a court, or who gives public notice by loud proclamation; as, a town-crier. He openeth his mouth like a crier. Ecclus. xx. 15. 

CRIMEFUL:  Criminal; wicked; contrary to law, right, or dury. [Obs.] Shak. 

CRIMELESS:  Free from crime; innocent. Shak. 

CRIMINAL:  One who has commited a crime; especially, one who is found guilty by verdict, confession, or proof; a malefactor; a felon. 

CRIMINALIST:  One versed in criminal law. [R.] 

CRIMINALITY:  The quality or state of being criminal; that which constitutes a crime; guiltiness; guilt. This is by no means the only criterion of criminality. Blackstone. 

CRIMINALLY:  In violation of law; wickedly. 

CRIMINALNESS:  Criminality. [R.] 

CRIMINATION:  The act of accusing; accusation; charge; complaint. The criminations and recriminations of the adverse parties. Macaulay. 

CRIMINATIVE:  Charging with crime; accusing; criminatory. R. North. 

CRIMINATORY:  Relating to, or involving, crimination; accusing; as, a criminatory conscience. 

CRIMINOLOGY:  A treatise on crime or the criminal population.  -- Crim`i*nol"o*gist (-j, n. 

CRIMINOUS:  Criminal; involving great crime or grave charges; very wicked; heinous. [Obs.] Holland.  -- Crim"i*nous*ly, adv..  -- Crim"i*nous*ness,n. [Obs.] 

CRIMOSIN:  See Crimson. 

CRIMP:  To cause to contract, or to render more crisp, as the flesh of a fish, by gashing it, when living, with a knife; as, to crimp skate, etc. Crimping house, a low lodging house, into which men are decoyed and plied with drink, to induce them to ship or enlist as sailors or soldiers.  -- Crimping iron. (a) An iron instrument for crimping and curling the hair. (b) A crimping machine.  -- Crimping machine, a machine with fluted rollers or with dies, for crimping ruffles leather, iron, etc.  -- Crimping pin, an instrument for crimping or puckering the border of a lady's cap. 

CRIMPAGE:  The act or practice of crimping; money paid to a crimp for shipping or enlisting men. 

CRIMPER:  One who, or that which, crimps; as: (a) A curved board or frame over which the upper of a boot or shoe is stretched to the required shape. (b) A device for giving hair a wavy apperance. (c) A machine for crimping or ruffling textile fabrics. 

CRIMPLE:  To cause to shrink or draw together; to contract; to curl. [R.] Wiseman. 

CRIMPY:  Having a crimped appearance; frizzly; as, the crimpy wool of the Saxony sheep. 

CRIMSON:  A deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general. Theugh jour be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Is. i. 18. A maid jet rosed over with the virgin crimson of modesty. Shak. 

CRIMSON:  Of a deep red color tinged with blue; deep red. "A crimson tide." Mrs. Hemans. The blushing poppy with a crimson hue. Prior. 

CRIMSON:  To dye with crimson or deep red; to redden. Signed in thy spoil and crimsoned in thy lethe. Shak. 

CRIMSON:  To become crimson; to blush. Ancient towers . . . beginning to crimson with the radiant luster of a cloudless July morning. De Quincey. 

CRINAL:  Of or pertaining to the hair. [R.] Blount. 

CRINATED:  Having hair; hairy. 

CRINATORY:  Crinitory. Craig. 

CRINCUM:  A twist or bend; a turn; a whimsey. [Colloq.] Hudibras.  CRINCUM-CRANCUM Crin"cum-cran"cum (krn"km-krn"km), n.  A twist; a whimsey or whim. [Colloq.] 

CRINED:  Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of the body; as, a charge crined of a red tincture.  CRINEL; CRINET Cri"nel (kr"nEl), Cri"net (kr"nt), n. Etym: [L. crinis hair.]  A very fine, hairlike feather. Booth. 

CRINGE:  To draw one's self together as in fear or servility; to bend or crouch with base humility; to wince; hence; to make court in a degrading manner; to fawn. When they were come up to the place where the lions were, the boys that went before were glad to cringe behind, for they were afraid of the lions. Bunyan. Sly hypocrite, . . . who more than thou Once fawned and cringed, and servilely adored Heaven's awful monarch Milton. Flatterers . . . are always bowing and cringing. Arbuthnot. 

CRINGE:  To contract; to draw together; to cause to shrink or wrinkle; to distort. [Obs.] Till like a boy you see him cringe his face, And whine aloud for mercy. Shak. 

CRINGE:  Servile civility; fawning; a shrinking or bowing, as in fear or servility. "With cringe and shrug, and bow obsequious." Cowper. 

CRINGELING:  One who cringes meanly; a fawner. 

CRINGER:  One who cringes. 

CRINGINGLY:  In a cringing manner. 

CRINGLE:  An iron or pope thimble or grommet worked into or attached to the edges and corners of a sail; -- usually in the plural. The cringles are used for making fast the bowline bridles, earings, etc. 

CRINICULTURAL:  Relating to the growth of hair. [R.] 

CRINIGEROUS:  Bearing hair; hairy. [R.] 

CRINITAL:  Same as Crinite,  1. He the star crinital adoreth. Stanyhurst. 

CRINITE:  Bearded or tufted with hairs. Gray. 

CRINITORY:  Of or relating to hair; as, a crinitory covering. T. Hook. 

CRINKLE:  To form with short turns, bends, or wrinkles; to mold into inequalites or sinuosities; to cause to wrinkle or curl. The houscrinkled to and fro. Chaucer. Her face all bowsy, Comely crinkled, Wondrously wrinkled. Skelton. The flames through all the casements pushing forth, Like red-not devils crinkled into snakes. Mrs. Browning. 

CRINKLE:  To turn or wind; ti run in and out in many short bends or turns; to curl; to run in wavws; to wrinkle; also, to rustle, as stiff cloth when moved. The green wheat crinkles like a lake. L. T. Trowbridge. And all the rooms Were full of crinkling silks. Mrs. Browning. 

CRINKLE:  A winding or turn; wrinkle; sinuosity. The crinkles in this glass, making objects appear double. A. Tucker. 

CRINKLED:  Having short bends, turns, or wrinkles; wrinkled; wavy; zigzag. "The crinkled lightning." Lowell. 

CRINKLY:  Having crinkles; wavy; wrinkly. 

CRINOID:  Crinoidal.  -- n.  One of the Crinoidea. 

CRINOIDAL:  Of pertaining to crinoids; consisting of, or containing, crinoids. 

CRINOIDEA:  A large class of Echinodermata, including numerous extinct families and genera, but comparatively few living ones. Most of the fossil species, like some that are recent, were attached by a jointed stem. See Blastoidea, Cystoidea, Comatula. 

CRINOIDEAN:  One of the Crinoidea. 

CRINOSE:  Hairy. [R.] 

CRINOSITY:  Hairiness. [R.] 

CRINUM:  A genus of bulbous plants, of the order Amaryllidace, cultivated as greenhouse plants on account of their beauty. 

CRIOSPHINX:  A sphinx with the head of a ram. 

CRIPPLE:  One who creeps, halts, or limps; one who has lost, or never had, the use of a limb or limbs; a lame person; hence, one who is partially disabled. I am a cripple in my limbs; but what decays are in my mind, the reader must determine. Dryden. 

CRIPPLE:  Lame; halting. [R.] "The cripple, tardy-gaited night." Shak. 

CRIPPLED:  Lamed; lame; disabled; impeded. "The crippled crone." Longfellow. 

CRIPPLENESS:  Lameness. [R.] Johnson. 

CRIPPLER:  A wooden tool used in graining leather. Knight. 

CRIPPLING:  Spars or timbers set up as a support against the side of a building. 

CRIPPLY:  Lame; disabled; in a crippled condition. [R.] Mrs. Trollope. 

CRISIS:  That change in a disease which indicates whether the result is to be recovery or death; sometimes, also, a striking change of symptoms attended by an outward manifestation, as by an eruption or sweat. Till some safe crisis authorize their skill. Dryden. 

CRISP:  To undulate or ripple. Cf. Crisp, v. t. To watch the crisping ripples on the beach. Tennuson. 

CRISP:  That which is crisp or brittle; the state of being crisp or brittle; as, burned to a crisp; specifically, the rind of roasted pork; crackling.  CRISPATE; CRISPATED Cris"pate (krs"pt), Cris"pa*ted (-p-td), a. Etym: [L. crispatus, p. p. of crispare.]  Having a crisped appearance; irregularly curled or twisted. 

CRISPATURE:  The state of being crispate. 

CRISPER:  One who, or that which, crisps or curls; an instrument for making little curls in the nap of cloth, as in chinchilla. 

CRISPLY:  In a crisp manner. 

CRISPNESS:  The state or quality of being crisp. 

CRISSCROSS:  To mark or cover with cross lines; as, a paper was crisscrossed with red marks. 

CRISSCROSS:  See Christcross-row. 

CRISSUM:  That part of a bird, or the feathers, surrounding the cloacal opening; the under tail coverts. 

CRISTATE:  Crested. 

CRITERION:  A standard of judging; any approved or established rule or test, by which facts, principles opinions, and conduct are tried in forming a correct judgment respecting them. Of the diseases of the mind there is no criterion. Donne. Inferences founded on such enduring criteria. Sir G. C. Lewis.  Syn.  -- Standard; measure; rule. 

CRITH:  The unit for estimating the weight of a 

CRITHOMANCY:  A kind of divination by means of the dough of the cakes offered in the ancient sacrifices, and the meal strewed over the victims. 

CRITIC:  Of or pertaining to critics or criticism; critical. [Obs.] "Critic learning." Pope. 

CRITIC:  To criticise; to play the critic. [Obs.] Nay, if you begin to critic once, we shall never have done. A. Brewer. 

CRITICAL:  Pertaining to, or indicating, a crisis, turning point, or specially important juncture; important as regards consequences; hence, of doubtful issue; attended with risk; dangerous; as, the critical stage of a fever; a critical situation. Our circumstances are indeed critical. Burke. The small moment, the exact point, the critical minute, on which every good work so much depends. South. Critical angle (Optics), that angle of incidence of a luminous ray at which it is wholly reflected, and no portion of it transmitted. The sine of this angle is the reciprocal of the refractive index of the medium.  -- Critical philosophy, the metaphysical system of Kant; -- so called from his most important work, the "Critique of Pure Reason." - - Critical point (Physics), a certain temperature, different for different gases, but always the same for each gas, regarded as the limit above which no amount of pressure can produce condensation to a liquid. 

CRITICASTER:  A contemptible or vicious critic. The rancorous and reptile crew of poeticules, who decompose into criticasters. Swinburne. 

CRITICISABLE:  Capable of being criticised. 

CRITICISER:  One who criticises; a critic. 

CRITIQUE:  To criticise or pass judgment upon. [Obs.] Pope. 

CRIZZEL:  A kind of roughness on the surface of glass, which clouds its transparency. [Written also crizzeling and crizzle.] 

CROAK:  To utter in a low, hoarse voice; to announce by croaking; to forebode; as, to croak disaster. The raven himself is hoarse, That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan. Shak. Two ravens now began to croak Their nuptial song. Wordsworth. 

CROAK:  The coarse, harsh sound uttered by a frog or a raven, or a like sound. 

CROATIAN:  Of or pertaining to Croatia.  -- n.  A Croat. 

CROCEIN:  A name given to any one of several yellow or scarlet dyestuffs of artificial production and complex structure. In general they are diazo and sulphonic acid derivatives of benzene and naphthol. 

CROCEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or like, saffron; deep reddish yellow. [R.] 

CROCETIN:  A dyestuff, obtained from the Chinese croicin, which produces a brilliant yellow. 

CROCHE:  A little bud or knob at the top of a deer's antler. 

CROCHET:  A kind of knitting done by means of a hooked needle, with worsted, silk, or cotton; crochet work. Commonly used adjectively. Crochet hook, Crochet needle, a small hook, or a hooked needle (often of bone), used in crochet work. 

CROCHET:  To knit with a crochet needle or hook; as, to rochett a shawl. 

CROCIARY:  One who carries the cross before an archbishop. [Obs.] 

CROCIDOLITE:  A mineral occuring in silky fibers of a lavender blue color. It is related to hornblende and is essentially a silicate of iron and soda; -- called also blue asbestus. A silicified form, in which the fibers penetrating quartz are changed to oxide of iron, is the yellow brown tiger-eye of the jewelers. 

CROCK:  The loose black particles collected from combustion, as on pots and kettles, or in a chimney; soot; smut; also, coloring matter which rubs off from cloth. 

CROCK:  To soil by contact, as with soot, or with the coloring matter of badly dyed cloth. 

CROCK:  To give off crock or smut. 

CROCK:  A low stool. "I . . . seated her upon a little crock." Tatler. 

CROCK:  Any piece of crockery, especially of coarse earthenware; an earthen pot or pitcher. Like foolish flies about an honey crock. Spenser. 

CROCK:  To lay up in a crock; as, to crock butter. Halliwell. 

CROCKER:  A potter. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

CROCKERY:  Earthenware; vessels formed of baked clay, especially the coarser kinds. 

CROCKET:  An ornament often resembling curved and bent foliage, projecting from the sloping edge of a gable, spire, etc.  2. A croche, or knob, on the top of a stag's antler. The antlers and the crockets. W. Black. 

CROCKETED:  Ornamented with crockets. 

CROCKETING:  Ornamentation with crockets. Ruskin. 

CROCKY:  Smutty. 

CROCODILE:  A large reptile of the genus Crocodilus, of several species. They grow to the length of sixteen or eighteen feet, and inhabit the large rivers of Africa, Asia, and America. The eggs, laid in the sand, are hatched by the sun's heat. The best known species is that of the Nile (C. vulgaris, or C. Niloticus). The Florida crocodile (C. Americanus) is much less common than the alligator and has longer jaws. The name is also sometimes applied to the species of other related genera, as the gavial and the alligator.  2. (Logic)  A fallacious dilemma, mythically supposed to have been first used by a crocodile. Crocodile bird (Zoöl.), an African plover (Pluvianus ægypticus) which alights upon the crocodile and devours its insect parasites, even entering its open mouth (according to reliable writers) in pursuit of files, etc.; -- called also Nile bird. It is the trochilos of ancient writers.  -- Crocodile tears, false or affected tears; hypocritical sorrow; -- derived from the fiction of old travelers, that crocodiles shed tears over their prey. 

CROCODILIA:  An order of reptiles including the crocodiles, gavials, alligators, and many extinct kinds. 

CROCODILIAN:  Like, or pertaining to, the crocodile; characteristic of the crocodile.  -- n.  One of the Crocodilia. 

CROCODILITY:  A caption or sophistical mode of arguing. [R.] 

CROCOISITE:  Same as Crocoite. 

CROCOITE:  Lead chromate occuring in crystals of a bright hyacinth red color; -- called also red lead ore. 

CROCONATE:  A salt formed by the union of croconic acid with a base. 

CROCOSE:  A white crystalline sugar, metameric with glucose, obtained from the coloring matter of saffron. [Written also crokose.] 

CROCUS:  A genus of iridaceous plants, with pretty blossoms rising separately from the bulb or corm. C. vernus is one of the earliest of spring-blooming flowers; C. sativus produces the saffron, and blossoms in the autumn.  2. (Chem.)  A deep yellow powder; the oxide of some metal calcined to a red or deep yellow color; esp., the oxide of iron (Crocus of Mars or colcothar) thus produced from salts of irron, and used as a polishing powder. Crocus of Venus (Old Chem.), oxide of copper. 

CROESUS:  A king of Lydia who flourished in the 6th century b. c., and was renowned for his vast wealth; hence, a common appellation for a very rich man; as, he is veritable Croesus. 

CROFT:  A small, inclosed field, adjoining a house; a small farm. A few small crofts of stone-encumbered ground. Wordsworth. 

CROFTER:  One who rents and tills a small farm or helding; as, the crofters of Scotland. 

CROFTING:  Exposing linen to the sun, on the grass, in the process of bleaching. 

CROFTLAND:  Land of superior quality, on which successive crops are raised. [Scot.] Jamieson.  CROFTON SYSTEM Crof"ton sys"tem. [After Sir Walter Crofton, Irish penologist.] (Penology)  A system of prison discipline employing for consecutive periods cellular confinement, associated imprisonment under the mark system, restraint intermediate between imprisonment and freedom, and liberation on ticket of leave. 

CROIS:  See Cross, n. [Obs.]  CROISADE; CROISADO Croi*sade" (kroi-sd"), Croi*sa"do (-s"d), n. Etym: [F. criosade. See Crusade.]  A holy war; a crusade. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CROISSANTE:  Terminated with crescent; -- said of a cross the ends of which are so terminated. 

CROKER:  A cultivator of saffron; a dealer in saffron. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

CROMA:  A quaver. [Obs.] 

CROMLECH:  A monument of rough stones composed of one or more large ones supported in a horizontal position upon others. They are found chiefly in countris inhabited by the ancient Celts, and are of a period anterior to the introduction of Christianity into these countries. 

CROMORNA:  A certain reed stop in the organ, of a quality of tone resembling that of the oboe. [Corruptly written cromona.] 

CRONEL:  The iron head of a tilting spear. 

CRONET:  The coronet of a horse. 

CRONIAN:  Saturnian; -- applied to the North Polar Sea. [R.] Milton. 

CRONSTEDTITE:  A mineral consisting principally of silicate of iron, and crystallizing in hexagonal prisms with perfect basal cleavage; -- so named from the Swedish mineralogist Cronstedt. 

CROOK:  A small tube, usually curved, applied to a trumpet, horn, etc., to change its pitch or key.  6. A person given to fraudulent practices; an accomplice of thieves, forgers, etc. [Cant, U.S.] By hook or by crook, in some way or other; by fair means or foul. 

CROOK:  To bend; to curve; to wind; to have a curvature. " The port . . . crooketh like a bow." Phaer. Their shoes and pattens are snouted, and piked more than a finger long, crooking upwards. Camden. 

CROOKBACK:  A crooked back; one who has a crooked or deformed back; a hunchback. 

CROOKBACK:  Hunched. Shak. ` 

CROOKBILL:  A New Zealand plover (Anarhynchus frontalis), remarkable for having the end of the beak abruptly bent to the right. 

CROOKEDLY:  In a curved or crooked manner; in a perverse or untoward manner. 

CROOKEDNESS:  The condition or quality of being crooked; hence, deformity of body or of mind; deviation from moral rectitude; perverseness. 

CROOKEN:  To make crooked. [Obs.]  CROOKES SPACE Crookes space (krooks). [After Sir William Crookes, English chemist, who first described it.] (Physics)  The dark space within the negative-pole glow at the cathode of a vacuum tube, observed only when the pressure is low enough to give a striated discharge; -- called also Crookes layer.  CROOKES TUBE Crookes" tube` (krks" tb`). (Phys.)  A vacuum tube in which the exhaustion is carried to a very high degree, with the production of a distinct class of effects; -- so called from W. Crookes who introduced it. 

CROOKNECK:  Either of two varieties of squash, distinguished by their tapering, recurved necks. The summer crookneck is botanically a variety of the pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo) and matures early in the season. It is pale yellow in color, with warty excrescences. The winter crookneck belongs to a distinct species (C. moschata) and is smooth and often striped. [U. S.] 

CROP:  A projecting ornament in carved stone. Specifically, a finial. [Obs.]  8. (Mining.) (a) Tin ore prepared for smelting. (b) Outcrop of a vein or seam at the surface. Knight.  9. A riding whip with a loop instead of a lash. Neck and crop, altogether; roughly and at once. [Colloq.] 

CROP:  To yield harvest. To crop out. (a) (Geol.) To appear above the surface, as a seam or vein, or inclined bed, as of coal. (b) To come to light; to be manifest; to appear; as, the peculiarities of an author crop out.  -- To crop up, to sprout; to spring up. "Cares crop up in villas." Beaconsfield.  CROP-EAR Crop"-ear` (krp"r`), n.  A person or animal whose ears are cropped.  CROP-EARED Crop"-eared` (krp"rd`), a.  Having the ears cropped. 

CROPFUL:  Having a full crop or belly; satiated. Milton. 

CROPPER:  A machine for cropping, as for shearing off bolts or rod iron, or for facing cloth.  4. A fall on one's head when riding at full speed, as in hunting; hence, a sudden failure or collapse. [Slang.] 

CROPSICK:  Sick from excess in eating or drinking. [Obs.] "Cropsick drunkards." Tate.  -- Crop"sick`ness, n. [Obs.] Whitlock.  CROP-TAILED Crop"-tailed` (-tld`), a.  Having the tail cropped. 

CROQUANTE:  A brittle cake or other crisp pastry. 

CROQUET:  In the game of croquet, to drive away an opponent's ball, after putting one's own in contact with it, by striking one's own ball with the mallet. 

CROQUETTE:  A ball of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients, highly seasoned, and fried. 

CRORE:  Ten millions; as, a crore of rupees (which is nearly $5,000,000). [East Indies] Malcolm. 

CROSIER:  The pastoral staff of a bishop (also of an archbishop, being the symbol of his office as a shepherd of the flock of God.  Note: The true shape of the crosier was with a hooked or curved top; the archbishop's staff alone bore a cross instead of a crook, and was of exceptional, not of regular form. Skeat. 

CROSIERED:  Bearing a crosier. 

CROSLET:  See Crosslet. 

CROSS:  A monument in the form of a cross, or surmounted bu a cross, set up in a public place; as, a market cross; a boundary cross; Charing Cross in London. Dun-Edin's Cross, a pillared stone, Rose on a turret octagon. Sir W. Scott.  7. (Her.)  A common heraldic bearing, of which there are many varieties. See the Illustration, above.  8. The crosslike mark or symbol used instead of a signature by those unable to write. Five Kentish abbesses . . . .subscribed their names and crosses. Fuller.  9. Church lands. [Ireland] [Obs.] Sir J. Davies.  10. A line drawn across or through another line.  11. Hence: A mixing of breeds or stock, especially in cattle breeding; or the product of such intermixture; a hybrid of any kind. Toning down the ancient Viking into a sort of a cross between Paul Jones and Jeremy Diddler. Lord Dufferin.  12. (Surveying)  An instrument for laying of offsets perpendicular to the main course.  13. (Mech.)  A pipe-fitting with four branches the axes of which usually form's right angle. Cross and pile, a game with money, at which it is put to chance whether a coin shall fall with that side up which bears the cross, or the other, which is called pile, or reverse; the game called heads or tails.  -- Cross bottony or bottoné. See under Bottony.  -- Cross estoilé (Her.). a cross, each of whose arms is pointed like the ray of a star; that is, a star having four long points only.  -- Cross of Calvary. See Calvary, 3.  -- Southern cross. (Astron.) See under Southern.  -- To do a thing on the cross, to act dishonestly; -- opposed to acting on the square. [Slang] -- To take up the cross, to bear troubles and afflictions with patience from love to Christ. 

CROSS:  Athwart; across. [Archaic or Colloq.] A fox was taking a walk one night cross a village. L'Estrange. To go cross lots, to go across the fields; totake a short cut. [Colloq.] 

CROSS:  With arms crossed.  CROSS-BANDED Cross"-band`ed (-bnd`d), a.  A term used when a narrow ribbon of veneer is inserted into the surfase of any piece of furniture, wainscoting, etc., so that the grain of it is contrary to the general surface. 

CROSSBAR:  A transverse bar or piece, as a bar across a door, or as the iron bar or stock which passes through the shank of an anchor to insure its turning fluke down. Russell. Crossbar shot, a projectile which folds into a sphere for loading, but on leaving the gun expands to a cross with a quarter ball at the end of each arm; -- used in naval actions for cutting the enemy's rigging. 

CROSSBEAK:  Same as Crossbill. 

CROSSBEAM:  A girder.  2. (Naut.)  A beam laid across the bitts, to which the cable is fastened when riding at anchor.  CROSS-BEARER Cross"-bear`er (-br`r), n. (R.C.Ch.)  A subdeacon who bears a cross before an archbishop or primate on solemn occasions. 

CROSSBILL:  A bill brought by a defendant, in an equity or chancery suit, against the plaintiff, respecting the matter in question in that suit. Bouvier.  Note: In criminal practice, cross bills of indictment for assault, in which the prosecutor in once case is the defendant in another, may be tried together. 

CROSSBILL:  A bird of the genus Loxia, allied to the finches. Their mandibles are strongly curved and cross each other; the crossbeak.  CROSS-BIRTH Cross"-birth` (-brth`), n. (Med.)  Any preternatural labor, in whiche the boly of the child lies across the pelvis of the mother, so that the shoulder, arm, or trunk is the part first presented at the mouth of the uterus. 

CROSSBITE:  A deeption; a cheat. [Obs.] 

CROSSBITE:  To deceive; to trick; to gull. [Obs.] 

CROSSBONES:  A representation of two of the leg bones or arm bones of a skeleton, laid crosswise, often surmounted with a skull, and serving as a symbol of death. Crossbones, scythes, hourglasses, and other lugubrios emblems of mortality. Hawthorne. 

CROSSBOW:  A weapon, used in discharging arrows, formed by placing a bow crosswise on a stock. 

CROSSBOWER:  A crossbowman.[Obs.] 

CROSSBOWMAN:  One who shoots with a crossbow. See Arbalest. 

CROSSBRED:  Produced by mixing distinct breeds; mongrel. 

CROSSBREED:  A bun or cake marked with a cross, and intended to be eaten on Good Friday.  CROSS-BUTTOCK Cross"-but`tock, n. (Wrestling)  A throw in which the wrestler turns his left side to his opponent, places his left leg across both legs of his opponent, and pulls him forward over his hip; hence, an unexpected defeat or repulse.  CROSS-CROSSLET Cross`-cross"let (-krs"lt; 115), n. (Her.)  A cross having the three upper ends crossed, so as to from three small crosses. 

CROSSCUT:  , v. t. To cut across or through; to intersect. 

CROSSCUT:  A level driven across the course of a vein, or across the main workings, as from one gangway to another. Crosscut saw. (a) A saw, the teeth of which are so set as to adapt it for sawing wood crosswise of the grain rather than lengthwise. (b) A saw managed by two men, one at each end, for cutting large logs crosswise.  CROSS-DAYS Cross"-days` (-dz`), n. pl. (Eccl.)  The three days preceding the Feast of the Ascension. 

CROSSE:  The implement with which the ball is thrown and caught in the game of lacrosse. 

CROSSETTE:  The interrogating or questioning of a witness by the party against whom he has been called and examined. See Examination.  CROSS-EXAMINE Cross"-ex*am"ine (-m"n), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cross-examined (-nd); p. pr. & vb. n. Cross-examining.] (Low)  To examine or question, as a witness who has been called and examined by the opposite party. "The opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses." Kent.  CROSS-EXAMINER Cross"-ex*am"in*er (-r), n.  One who cross-examines or conducts a crosse-examination.  CROSS-EYE Cross"-eye` (-`), n.  See Strabismus.  CROSS-EYED Cross"-eyed` (-d`), a.  Affected with strabismus; squint-eyed; squinting.  CROSS-FERTILIZE Cross"-fer"ti*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cross-fertilized; p. pr. & vb. n. Cross-fertilizing.] (Bot.)  To fertilize, as the stigmas of a flower or plant, with the pollen from another individual of the  same species. 

CROSSFISH:  A starfish. 

CROSSFLOW:  To flow across, or in a contrary direction. "His crossflowing course." Milton.  CROSS-GARNET Cross"-gar`net (krs"gr`nt), n.  A hinge having one strap perpendicular and the other strap horizontal giving it the form of an Egyptian or T cross. 

CROSSHATCH:  To shade by means of crosshatching. 

CROSSHATCHING:  In drawing and line engraving, shading with lines that cross one another at an angle. 

CROSSHEAD:  A beam or bar across the head or end of a rod, etc., or a block attached to it and carrying a knuckle pin; as the solid crosspiece running between parallel slides, which receives motion from the piston of a steam engine and imparts it to the connecting rod, which is hinged to the crosshead. 

CROSSJACK:  The lowest square sail, or the lower yard of the mizzenmast. 

CROSSLEGGED:  Having the legs crossed. 

CROSSLET:  A crucible. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CROSSLET:  Crossed again; -- said of a cross the arms of which are crossed. SeeCross-crosslet. 

CROSSLY:  Athwart; adversely; unfortunately; peevishly; fretfully; with ill humor. 

CROSSNESS:  The quality or state of being cross; peevishness; fretfulness; ill humor. 

CROSSOPTERYGIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Crossopterygii.  -- n.  One of the Crossopterygii. 

CROSSOPTERYGII:  An order of ganoid fishes including among living species the bichir (Polypterus). See Brachioganoidei. 

CROSSPATCH:  An ill-natured person. [Colloq.] "Crosspatch, draw the latch." Mother Goose.  CROSS-PAWL Cross"-pawl` (-pl`), n. (Shipbuilding)  Same as Cross-spale. 

CROSSPIECE:  A bar or timber connecting two knightheads or two bitts.  CROSS-PURPOSE Cross"-pur`pose (-pr`ps), n.  1. A counter or opposing purpose; hence, that which is inconsistent or contradictory. Shaftesbury.  2. pl.  A conversational game, in which questions and answers are made so as to involve ludicrous combinations of ideas. Pepys. To be at cross-purposes, to misunderstand or to act counter to one another without intending it; -- said of persons.  CROSS-QUESTION Cross"-ques`tion (-kws`chn), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cross-questioned (- chnd), p. pr. & vb. n. Cross-questioning.]  To cross-examine; to subject to close questioning.  CROSS-READING Cross"-read`ing (rd`ng), n.  The reading of the lines of a newspaper directly across the page, instead of down the columns, thus producing a ludicrous combination of ideas. 

CROSSROAD:  A road that crosses another; an obscure road intersecting or avoiding the main road. 

CROSSRUFF:  The play in whist where partners trump each a different suit, and lead to each other for that purpose; -- called also seesaw.  CROSS-SPALE; CROSS-SPALL Cross"-spale` (-spl`), Cross"-spall` (-spl`), n. Etym: [See Spale & Spall.] (Shipbuilding)  One of the temporary wooden braces, placed horizontally across a frame to hold it in position until the deck beams are in; a cross- pawl.  CROSS-SPRINGER Cross"-spring`er (-sprng`r), n. (Arch.)  One of the ribs in a groined arch, springing from the corners in a diagonal direction.  Note: [See Illustr. of Groined vault.]  CROSS-STAFF Cross"-staff` (-stf`), n.  1. An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes of celestial bodies.  2. A surveyor's instrument for measuring offsets.  CROSS-STITCH Cross"-stitch` (-stch`; 224), n.  A form of stitch, where the stitches are diagonal and in pairs, the thread of one stitch crossing that of the other. "Tent and cross- stitch." Sir W. Scott.  -- Cross"-stitch`, v. t. & i.  CROSS-STONE Cross"-stone` (-stn`), n. (Min.)  See Harmotome, and Staurotide.  CROSS-TAIL Cross"-tail` (-tl`), n. (Steam Engine)  A bar connecting the ends of the side rods or levers of a backaction or side-lever engine.  CROSS-TIE Cross"-tie` (-t`), n. (Railroad)  A sleeper supporting and connecting the rails, and holding them in place.  CROSS-TINING Cross"-tin`ing (krs"tn`ng), n. (Agric.)  A mode of harrowing crosswise, or transversely to the ridges. Crabb. 

CROSSTREES:  Pieces of timber at a masthead, to which are attached the upper shrouds. At the head of lower masts in large vessels, they support a semicircular platform called the "top."  CROSS-VAULTING Cross"-vault`ing (-vlt`ng), n. (Arch.)  Vaulting formed by the intersection of two or more simple vaults. 

CROSSWAY:  See Crossroad.  CROSS-WEEK Cross"-week` (-wk`), n.  Rogation week, when the cross was borne in processions. 

CROSSWISE:  In the form of a cross; across; transversely. Longfellow. 

CROSSWORT:  A name given to several inconspicuous plants having leaves in whorls of four, as species of Crucianella, Valantia, etc. 

CROTALARIA:  A genus of leguminous plants; rattlebox.  Note: Crotalaria juncea furnishes the fiber called sunn or Bombay hemp. 

CROTALINE:  Resembling, or pertaining to, the Crotalidae, or Rattlesnake family. 

CROTALO:  A Turkish musical instrument. 

CROTALUM:  A kind of castanet used by the Corybantes. 

CROTALUS:  A genus of poisonous serpents, including the rattlesnakes. 

CROTAPHITE:  The temple or temporal fossa. Also used adjectively. 

CROTAPHITIC:  Pertaining to the temple; temporal. 

CROTCH:  A stanchion or post of wood or iron, with two arms for supporting a boom, spare yards, etc.; -- called also crane and crutch. Totten.  CROTCH CHAIN Crotch chain. (Logging)  A form of tackle for loading a log sideways on a sled, skidway, etc. 

CROTCHET:  A time note, with a stem, having one fourth the value of a semibreve, one half that of a minim, and twice that of a quaver; a quarter note.  3. (Fort.)  An indentation in the glacis of the covered way, at a point where a traverse is placed.  4. (Mil.)  The arrangement of a body of troops, either forward or rearward, so as to form a line nearly perpendicular to the general line of battle.  5. (Print.)  A bracket. See Bracket.  6. (Med.)  An instrument of a hooked form, used in certain cases in the extraction of a fetus. Dunglison.  7. A perverse fancy; a whim which takes possession of the mind; a conceit. He ruined himself and all that trusted in him by crotchets that he could never explain to any rational man. De Quincey. 

CROTCHET:  To play music in measured time. [Obs.] Donne. 

CROTCHETED:  Marked or measured by crotchets; having musical notation. Harmar (1587). 

CROTCHETINESS:  The state or character of being crotchety, or whimsical. This belief in rightness is a kind of conscientiousness, and when it degenerates it becomes crotchetiness. J. Grote. 

CROTCHETY:  Given to crotchets; subject to whims; as, a crotchety man. 

CROTON:  A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropical countries. Croton oil (Med.), a viscid, acrid, brownish yellow oil obtained from the seeds of Croton Tiglium, a small tree of the East Indies. It is a most powerful drastic cathartic, and is used externally as a pustulant.  CROTON BUG Cro"ton bug` (bg`). Etym: [From the Croton water of New York.] (Zoöl.)  A small, active, winged species of cockroach (Ectobia Germanica), the water bug. It is common aboard ships, and in houses in cities, esp. in those with hot-water pipes. 

CROTONIC:  Of or pertaining to, or derived from, a plant of the genus Croton, or from croton oil. Crotonic acid (Chem.), a white crystalline organic acid, C3H5.CO2H, of the ethylene, or acrylic acid series. It was so named because formerly supposed to exist in croton oil. Also, any acid metameric with crotonic acid proper.  Note: The acid characteristic of croton oil is tiglic or tiglinic acid, a derivative of crotonic acid. 

CROTONINE:  A supposed alkaloid obtained from croton oil by boiling it with water and magnesia, since found to be merely a magnesia soap of the oil. Watts. 

CROTONYLENE:  A colorless, volatile, pungent liquid, C4H6, produced artificially, and regarded as an unsaturated hydrocarbon of the acetylene series, and analogous to crotonic acid. 

CROTTLES:  A name given to various lichens gathered for dyeing. [Scot.] 

CROUCHED:  Marked with the sign of the cross. [Obs.] Crouched friar. See Crutched friar, under Crutched. 

CROUD:  See Crowd, a violin. 

CROUKE:  A crock; a jar. [Obs.] Chauser. 

CROUP:  The hinder part or buttocks of certain quadrupeds, especially of a horse; hence, the place behind the saddle. So light to the croup the fair lady he swung, So light to the saddle before her he sprung. Sir W. Scott. 

CROUP:  An inflammatory affection of the larynx or trachea, accompanied by a hoarse, ringing cough and stridulous, difficult breathing; esp., such an affection when associated with the development of a false membrane in the air passages (also called membranous croup). See False croup, under False, and Diphtheria. 

CROUPADE:  A leap in which the horse pulls up his hind legs toward his belly. 

CROUPAL:  Croupy. 

CROUPER:  See Crupper. 

CROUPOUS:  Relating to or resembling croup; especially, attended with the formation of a deposit or membrance like that found in membranous croup; as, croupous laryngitis. Croupous pneumonia, pneumonia attended with deposition of fibrinous matter in the air vesicles of the lungs; ordinary acute pneumonia. 

CROUPY:  Of or pertaining to croup; resembling or indicating croup; as, a croupy cough. 

CROUSE:  Brisk; lively; bold; self-complacent. [Scot.] Burns. 

CROUSTADE:  Bread baked in a mold, and scooped out, to serve minces upon. Bishop. 

CROUT:  See Sourkrout. 

CROUTON:  Bread cut in various forms, and fried lightly in butter or oil, to garnish hashes, etc. 

CROW:  A bird, usually black, of the genus Corvus, having a strong conical beak, with projecting bristles. It has a harsh, croaking note. See Caw.  Note: The common crow of Europe, or carrion crow, is C. corone. The common American crow is C. Americanus. See Carrion crow, and Illustr., under Carrion.  2. A bar of iron with a beak, crook, or claw; a bar of iron used as a lever; a crowbar. Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight Unto my cell. Shak.  3. The cry of the cock. See Crow, v. i., 1.  4. The mesentery of a beast; -- so called by butchers. Carrion crow. See under Carrion.  -- Crow blackbird (Zoöl.), an American bird (Quiscalus quiscula); -- called also purple grackle.  -- Crow pheasant (Zoöl.), an Indian cuckoo; the common coucal. It is believed by the natives to give omens. See Coucal.  -- Crow shrike (Zoöl.), any bird of the genera Gymnorhina, Craticus, or Strepera, mostly from Australia.  -- Red-legged crow. See Crough.  -- As the crow flies, in a direct line.  -- To pick a crow, To pluck a crow, to state and adjust a difference or grievance (with any one). 

CROWBAR:  A bar of iron sharpened at one end, and used as a lever. 

CROWBERRY:  A heathlike plant of the genus Empetrum, and its fruit, a black, scarcely edible berry; -- also called crakeberry. 

CROWD:  An ancient instrument of music with six strings; a kind of violin, being the oldest known stringed instrument played with a bow. [Written also croud, crowth, cruth, and crwth.] A lackey that . . . can warble upon a crowd a little. B. Jonson. 

CROWD:  To play on a crowd; to fiddle. [Obs.] "Fiddlers, crowd on." Massinger. 

CROWDER:  One who plays on a crowd; a fiddler. [Obs.] "Some blind crowder." Sir P. Sidney. 

CROWDER:  One who crowds or pushes. 

CROWDY:  A thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water; food of the porridge kind. [Scot.] 

CROWFLOWER:  A kind of campion; according to Gerarde, the Lychnis Flos- cuculi. 

CROWFOOT:  The genus Ranunculus, of many species; some are common weeds, others are flowering plants of considerable beauty.  2. (Naut.)  A number of small cords rove through a long block, or euphroe, to suspend an awning by.  3. (Mil.)  A caltrop. [Written also crow's-foot.]  4. (Well Boring)  A tool with a side claw for recovering broken rods, etc. Raymond. 

CROWKEEPER:  A person employed to scare off crows; hence, a scarecrow. [Obs.] Scaring the ladies like a crowkeeper. Shak. 

CROWN:  p. p. of Crow. [Obs.] 

CROWN:  The part of a tooth which projects above the gum; also, the top or grinding surface of a tooth.  11. (Arch.)  The vertex or top of an arch; -- applied generally to about one third of the curve, but in a pointed arch to the apex only.  12. (Bot.)  Same as Corona.  13. (Naut.) (a) That part of an anchor where the arms are joined to the shank. (b) The rounding, or rounded part, of the deck from a level line. (c) pl.  The bights formed by the several turns of a cable. Totten.  14. The upper range of facets in a rose diamond.  15. The dome of a furnace.  16. (Geom.)  The area inclosed between two concentric perimeters.  17. (Eccl.)  A round spot shaved clean on the top of the head, as a mark of the clerical state; the tonsure.  18. A size of writing paper. See under Paper.  19. A coin stamped with the image of a crown; hence,a denomination of money; as, the English crown, a silver coin of the value of five shillings sterling, or a little more than $1.20; the Danish or Norwegian crown, a money of account, etc., worth nearly twenty-seven cents.  20. An ornaments or decoration representing a crown; as, the paper is stamped with a crown. Crown of aberration (Astron.), a spurious circle around the true circle of the sun.  -- Crown antler (Zoöl.), the topmost branch or tine of an antler; also, an antler having a cuplike top, with tines springing from the rim.  -- Crown bar, one of the bars which support the crown sheet of steam-boiler furnace.  -- Crown glass. See under Glass.  -- Crown imperial. (Bot.) See in the Vocabulary.  -- Crown jewels, the jewels appertaining to the sovereign while wearing the crown. [Eng.] "She pawned and set to sale the crown jewels." Milton.  -- Crown land, land belonging to the crown, that is, to the sovereign.  -- Crown law, the law which governs criminal prosecutions. [Eng.] -- Crown lawyer, one employed by the crown, as in criminal cases. [Eng.] -- Crown octavo. See under Paper.  -- Crown office. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Crown paper. See under Paper.  -- Crown piece. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Crown Prince, the heir apparent to a crown or throne.  -- Crown saw. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Crown scab (Far.), a cancerous sore formed round the corners of a horse's hoof.  -- Crown sheet, the flat plate which forms the top of the furnace or fire box of an internally fired steam boiler.  -- Crown shell. (Zoöl.) See Acorn-shell.  -- Crown side. See Crown office.  -- Crown tax (Eccl. Hist.), a golden crown, or its value, which was required annually from the Jews by the king of Syria, in the time of the Maccabees. 1 Macc. x. 20.  -- Crown wheel. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Crown work. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Pleas of the crown (Engl. law), criminal actions. 

CROWN:  To cause to round upward; to make anything higher at the middle than at the edges, as the face of a machine pulley.  5. (Mil.)  To effect a lodgment upon, as upon the crest of the glacis, or the summit of the breach. To crown a knot (Naut.), to lay the ends of the strands over and under each other.  CROWN COLONY Crown colony.  A colony of the British Empire not having an elective magistracy or a parliament, but governed by a chief magistrate (called Governor) appointed by the Crown, with executive councilors nominated by him and not elected by the people. 

CROWNER:  A coroner. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.] 

CROWNET:  A spring-blooming plant (Fritillaria imperialis) of the Lily family, having at the top of the stalk a cluster of pendent bell- shaped flowers surmounted with a tuft of green leaves. 

CROWNLAND:  In Austria-Hungary, one of the provinces, or largest administrative divisions of the monarchy; as, the crownland of Lower Austria. 

CROWNLESS:  Without a crown. 

CROWNLET:  A coronet. [Poetic] Sir W. Scott.  CROWN OFFICE Crown" of`fice (f`fs; 115). (Eng. Law)  The criminal branch of the Court of King's or Queen's Bench, commonly called the crown side of the court, which takes cognizance of all criminal cases. Burrill. 

CROWNPIECE:  Same as King-post.  CROWN-SAW Crown"-saw` (-s`), n. Etym: [From its supposed resemblance to a crown.] (Mech.)  A saw in the form of a hollow cylinder, with teeth on the end or edge, and operated by a rotative motion.  Note: The trephine was the first of the class of crownsaws. Knight.  CROWN SIDE Crown" side` (sd`).  See Crown office.  CROWN WHEEL Crown" wheel` (hwl`). Etym: [Named from its resemblance to a crown.] (Mach.)  A wheel with cogs or teeth set at right angles to its plane; -- called also a contrate wheel or face wheel. 

CROWNWORK:  A work consisting of two or more bastioned fronts, with their outworks, covering an enceinte, a bridgehead, etc., and connected by wings with the main work or the river bank.  CROW-QUILL Crow"-quill` (kr"kwl`), n.  A quill of the crow, or a very fine pen made from such a quill. 

CROWS:  A tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; -- also called Upsarokas.  CROW'S-FOOT Crow's"-foot` (krz"ft`), n.; pl. Crow's-feet (-f.  1. pl.  The wrinkles that appear, as the effect of age or dissipation, under and around the outer corners of the eyes. Tennyson.  2. (Mil.)  A caltrop. [Written also crowfoot.]  3. (Arch.)  Same as Bird's-mouth. [U.S.]  CROW-SILK Crow"-silk` (kr"slk`), n. (Bot.)  A filamentous fresh-water alga (Conferva rivularis of Linnaeus, Rhizoclonium rivulare of Kutzing).  CROW'S-NEST Crow's-nest` (krz"nst`), n. (Naut.)  A box or perch near the top of a mast, esp. in whalers, to shelter the man on the lookout. 

CROWSTEP:  See Corriestep. 

CROWSTONE:  The top stone of the gable end of a house. Halliwell. 

CROWTH:  An ancient musical instrument. See 4th Crowd. 

CROWTOE:  Marked with crow's-feet, or wrinkles, about the eyes. [Poetic] Do I look as if I were crow-trodden Beau. & FL. 

CROYDON:  A kind of carriage like a gig, orig. of wicker-work.  2.  A kind of cotton sheeting; also, a calico. 

CROYLSTONE:  Crystallized cawk, in which the crystals are small. 

CROYS:  See Cross, n. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CROZE:  A cooper's tool for making the grooves for the heads of casks, etc.; also, the groove itself. 

CROZIER:  See Crosier. 

CROZIERED:  Crosiered. 

CRUCIAL:  A kind of European carp (Carasius vulgaris), inferior to the common carp; -- called also German carp.  Note: The gibel or Prussian carp is now generally considered a variety of the crucian carp, or perhaps a hybrid between it and the common carp. 

CRUCIATE:  Having the leaves or petals arranged in the form of a cross; cruciform. 

CRUCIATE:  To torture; to torment. [Obs.] See Excruciate. Bale. 

CRUCIATION:  The act of torturing; torture; torment. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

CRUCIBLE:  Cast steel made by fusing in crucibles crude or scrap steel, wrought iron, and other ingredients and fluxes. 

CRUCIFER:  Any plant of the order Cruciferæ. 

CRUCIFEROUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants which have four petals arranged like the arms of a cross, as the mustard, radish, turnip, etc. 

CRUCIFIER:  One who crucifies; one who subjects himself or another to a painful trial. 

CRUCIFORM:  Cross-shaped; (Bot.) having four parts arranged in the form of a cross. 

CRUCIGEROUS:  Bearing the cross; marked with the figure of a cross. Sir. T. Browne. 

CRUD:  See Curd. [Obs.] 

CRUDDLE:  To curdle. [Obs.] See how thy blood cruddles at this. Bea 

CRUDE:  Harsh and offensive, as a color; tawdry or in bad taste, as a combination of colors, or any design or work of art. 

CRUDELY:  In a crude, immature manner. 

CRUDENESS:  A crude, undigested, or unprepared state; rawness; unripeness; immatureness; unfitness for a destined use or purpose; as, the crudeness of iron ore; crudeness of theories or plans. 

CRUDLE:  See Cruddle. 

CRUDY:  Coagulated. [Obs.] His cruel wounds with crudy blood congealed. Spenser. 

CRUDY:  Characterized by crudeness; raw. [Obs.] The foolish and dull and crudy vapors. Shak. 

CRUEL:  See Crewel. 

CRUELNESS:  Cruelty. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CRUELS:  Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck. 

CRUENTATE:  Smeared with blood. [Obs.] Glanwill. 

CRUENTOUS:  Bloody; cruentate. [Obs.] 

CRUET:  A vessel used to hold wine, oil, or water for the service of the altar. Cruet stand, a frame for holding cruets; a caster. 

CRUISE:  See Cruse, a small bottle. 

CRUISE:  A voyage made in various directions, as of an armed vessel, for the protection of other vessels, or in search of an enemy; a sailing to and fro, as for exploration or for pleasure. He feigned a compliance with some of his men, who were bent upon going a cruise to Manilla. Dampier. 

CRUISER:  One who, or a vessel that, cruises; -- usually an armed vessel. 

CRUIVE:  A kind of weir or dam for trapping salmon; also, a hovel. [Scot.] 

CRULL:  Curly; curled. [Obs.] 

CRULLER:  A kind of sweet cake cut in strips and curled or twisted, and fried crisp in boiling fat. [Also written kruller.] 

CRUMB:  To break into crumbs or small pieces with the fingers; as, to crumb bread. [Written also crum.] 

CRUMBCLOTH:  A cloth to be laid under a dining table to receive falling fragments, and keep the carpet or floor clean. [Written also crumcloth.] 

CRUMBLE:  To break into small pieces; to cause to fall in pieces. He with his bare wand can unthread thy joints, And crumble all thy sinews. Milton. 

CRUMBLE:  To fall into small pieces; to break or part into small fragments; hence, to fall to decay or ruin; to become disintegrated; to perish. If the stone is brittle, it will crumble and pass into the form of gravel. Arbuthnot. The league deprived of its principal supports must soon crumble to pieces. Prescott. 

CRUMBLY:  EAsily crumbled; friable; brittle. "The crumbly soil." Hawthorne. 

CRUMENAL:  A purse. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

CRUMMABLE:  Capable of being crumbed or broken into small pieces. 

CRUMPET:  A kind of large. thin muffin or cake, light and spongy, and cooked on a griddle or spider. 

CRUMPLE:  To draw or press into wrinkles or folds to crush together; to rumple; as, to crumple paper. They crumpled it into all shapes, and diligently scanned every wrinkle that could be made. Addison. 

CRUMPLE:  To contract irregularly; to show wrinkless after being crushed together; as, leaves crumple. 

CRUMPY:  Brittle; crisp. Wright. 

CRUNCH:  To crush with the teeth; to chew with a grinding noise; to craunch; as, to crunch a biscuit.  CRUNK; CRUNKLE Crunk (krnk), Crun"kle (krn"k'l), v. i. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kr to croak.]  To cry like a crane. [Obs.] "The crane crunketh." Withals (1608). 

CRUNODAL:  Possessing, or characterized by, a crunode; -- used of curves. 

CRUNODE:  A point where one branch of a curve crosses another branch. See Double point, under Double, a. 

CRUOR:  The coloring matter of the blood; the clotted portion of coagulated blood, containing the coloring matter; gore. 

CRUORIN:  The coloring matter of the blood in the living animal; hæmoglobin. 

CRUP:  Short; brittle; as, crup cake. Todd. 

CRUP:  See Croup, the rump of a horse. 

CRUPPER:  To fit with a crupper; to place a crupper upon; as, to crupper a horse. 

CRURA:  See Crus. 

CRURAL:  Of or pertaining to the thigh or leg, or to any of the parts called crura; as, the crural arteries; crural arch; crural canal; crural ring. 

CRUSADE:  To engage in a crusade; to attack in a zealous or hot-headed manner. "Cease crusading against sense." M. Green. 

CRUSADER:  One engaged in a crusade; as, the crusaders of the Middle Ages. Azure-eyed and golden-haired, Forth the young crusaders fared. Longfellow. 

CRUSADING:  Of or pertaining to a crusade; as, a crusading spirit. 

CRUSADO:  An old Portuguese coin, worth about seventy cents. [Written also cruade.] Shak. 

CRUSET:  A goldsmith's crucible or melting pot. 

CRUSH:  To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smaller compass, by external weight or force; as, an eggshell crushes easily. 

CRUSHER:  One who, or that which, crushes. Crusher gauge, an instrument for measuring the explosive force of gunpowder, etc., by its effect in compressing a piece of metal. 

CRUSHING:  That crushes; overwhelming. "The blow must be quick and crushing." Macualay. 

CRUST:  The exterior portion of the earth, formerly universally supposed to inclose a molten interior.  4. (Zoöl.)  The shell of crabs, lobsters, etc.  5. (Med.)  A hard mass, made up of dried secretions blood, or pus, occurring upon the surface of the body.  6. An incrustation on the interior of wine bottles, the result of the ripening of the wine; a deposit of tartar, etc. See Beeswing. 

CRUST:  To cover with a crust; to cover or line with an incrustation; to incrust. The whole body is crusted over with ice. Boyle. And now their legs, and breast, and bodies stood Crusted with bark. Addison. Very foul and crusted bottles. Swift. Their minds are crusted over, like diamonds in the rock. Felton. 

CRUST:  To gather or contract into a hard crust; to become incrusted. The place that was burnt . . . crusted and healed. Temple. 

CRUSTACEA:  One of the classes of the arthropods, including lobsters and crabs; -- so called from the crustlike shell with which they are covered.  Note: The body usually consists of an anterior part, made up of the head and thorax combined, called the cephalothorax, and of a posterior jointed part called the abdomen, postabdomen, and (improperly) tail. They breathe by means of gills variously attached to some of the limbs or to the sides the body, according to the group. They are divisible into two subclasses, Entomostraca and Malacostraca, each of which includes several orders. 

CRUSTACEAN:  Of or pertaining to the Crustacea; crustaceous.  -- n.  An animal belonging to the class Crustacea. 

CRUSTACEOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to crustaceology. 

CRUSTACEOLOGIST:  One versed in crustaceology; a crustalogist. 

CRUSTACEOLOGY:  That branch of Zoölogy which treats of the Crustacea; malacostracology; carcinology. 

CRUSTACEOUS:  Belonging to the Crustacea; crustacean. 

CRUSTACEOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being crustaceous or having a crustlike shell. 

CRUSTAL:  Relating to a crust. 

CRUSTALOGICAL:  Pertaining to crustalogy. 

CRUSTALOGIST:  One versed in crustalogy. 

CRUSTALOGY:  Crustaceology. 

CRUSTATED:  Covered with a crust; as, crustated basalt. 

CRUSTATION:  An adherent crust; an incrustation. Pepys. 

CRUSTED:  Incrusted; covered with, or containing, crust; as, old, crusted port wine. 

CRUSTIFIC:  Producing or forming a crust or skin. [R.] 

CRUSTILY:  In a crusty or surly manner; morosely. 

CRUSTY:  Having a hard exterior, or a short, rough manner, though kind at heart; snappish; peevish; surly. Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news Shak. 

CRUT:  The rough, shaggy part of oak bark. 

CRUTCH:  To support on crutches; to prop up. [R.] Two fools that crutch their feeble sense on verse. Dryden. 

CRUTCHED:  Marked with the sign of the cross; crouched. Crutched friar (Eccl.), one of a religious order, so called because its members bore the sign of the cross on their staves and habits; -- called also crossed friar and crouched friar. 

CRUTH:  See 4th Crowd. 

CRUX:  Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain. Dr. Sheridan. The perpetual crux of New Testament chronologists. Strauss.  CRUX ANSATA Crux an*sa"ta. [L., cross with a handle.]  A cross in the shape of the ankh. 

CRUZADO:  A coin. See Crusado. 

CRWTH:  See 4th Crowd. 

CRYAL:  The heron [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

CRYER:  The female of the hawk; a falcon-gentil. 

CRYING:  Calling for notice; compelling attention; notorious; heinous; as, a crying evil. Too much fondness for meditative retirement is not the crying sin of our modern Christianity. I. Taylor. 

CRYOHYDRATE:  A substance, as salt, ammonium chloride, etc., which crystallizes with water of crystallization only at low temperatures, or below the freezing point of water. F. Guthrie. 

CRYOLITE:  A fluoride of sodium and aluminum, found in Greenland, in white cleavable masses; -- used as a source of soda and alumina. 

CRYOMETER:  A thermometer for the measurement of low temperatures, esp. such an instrument containing alcohol or some other liquid of a lower freezing point than mercury. 

CRYOPHORUS:  An instrument used to illustrate the freezing of water by its own evaporation. The ordinary form consist of two glass bulbs, connected by a tube of the same material, and containing only a quantity of water and its vapor, devoid of air. The water is in one of the bulbs, and freezes when the other is cooled below 32º Fahr. 

CRYPT:  A simple gland, glandular cavity, or tube; a follicle; as, the cryps of Lieberk. 

CRYPTAL:  Of or pertaining to crypts.  CRYPTIC; CRYPTICAL Cryp"tic (krp"tk), Cryp"tic*al (-t-kal), a. Etym: [L. crypticus, Gr.  Hidden; secret; occult. "Her [nature's] more cryptic ways of working." Glanvill. 

CRYPTICALLY:  Secretly; occultly. 

CRYPTIDINE:  One of the quinoline bases, obtained from coal tar as an oily liquid, C11H11N; also, any one of several substances metameric with, and resembling, cryptidine proper. 

CRYPTOBRANCHIATE:  Having concealed or rudimentary gills. 

CRYPTOCRYSTALLINE:  Indistinctly crystalline; -- applied to rocks and minerals, whose state of aggregation is so fine that no distinct particles are visible, even under the microscope. 

CRYPTOGAM:  A plant belonging to the Cryptogamia. Henslow. 

CRYPTOGAMIA:  The series or division of flowerless plants, or those never having true stamens and pistils, but propagated by spores of various kinds.  Note: The subdivisions have been variously arranged. The following arrangement recognizes four classes: --I. Pteridophyta, or Vascular Acrogens. These include Ferns, Equiseta or Scouring rushes, Lycopodiaceæ or Club mosses, Selaginelleæ, and several other smaller orders. Here belonged also the extinct coal plants called Lepidodendron, Sigillaria, and Calamites. II. Bryophita, or Cellular Acrogens. These include Musci, or Mosses, Hepaticæ, or Scale mosses and Liverworts, and possibly Characeæ, the Stoneworts. III. Algæ, which are divided into Florideæ, the Red Seaweeds, and the orders Dictyoteæ, Oösporeæ, Zoösporeæ, Conjugatæ, Diatomaceæ, and Cryptophyceæ. IV. Fungi. The molds, mildews, mushrooms, puffballs, etc., which are variously grouped into several subclasses and many orders. The Lichenes or Lichens are now considered to be of a mixed nature, each plant partly a Fungus and partly an Alga.  CRYPTOGAMIAN; CRYPTOGAMIC; CRYPTOGAMOUS Cryp`to*ga"mi*an (krp`t-g"m-an), Cryp`to*gam"ic (krp`t-gm"k), Cryp*to"gam*ous a.  Of or pertaining to the series Cryptogamia, or to plants of that series. 

CRYPTOGAMIST:  One skilled in cryptogamic botany. 

CRYPTOGRAM:  A cipher writing. Same as Cryptograph. 

CRYPTOGRAPH:  Cipher; something written in cipher. "Decipherers of cryptograph." J. Earle. 

CRYPTOGRAPHAL:  Pertaining to cryptography; cryptographical. Boyle. 

CRYPTOGRAPHER:  One who writes in cipher, or secret characters.  CRYPTOGRAPHIC; CRYPTOGRAPHICAL Cryp`to*graph"ic (krp`t-grf"k), Cryp`to*graph"ic*al (krp`t-grf"-kal), a.  Relating to cryptography; written in secret characters or in cipher, or with sympathetic ink. 

CRYPTOGRAPHIST:  Same as Cryptographer. 

CRYPTOGRAPHY:  The act or art of writing in secret characters; also, secret characters, or cipher. 

CRYPTOLOGY:  Secret or enigmatical language. Johnson. 

CRYPTONYM:  A secret name; a name by which a person is known only to the initiated. 

CRYPTOPINE:  A colorless crystalline alkaloid obtained in small quantities from opium. 

CRYPTURI:  An order of flying, dromTinamou. 

CRYSTAL:  The regular form which a substance tends to assume in solidifying, through the inherent power of cohesive attraction. It is bounded by plane surfaces, symmetrically arranged, and each species of crystal has fixed axial ratios. See Crystallization.  2. The material of quartz, in crystallization transparent or nearly so, and either colorless or slightly tinged with gray, or the like; - - called also rock crystal. Ornamental vessels are made of it. Cf. Smoky quartz, Pebble; also Brazilian pebble, under Brazilian.  3. A species of glass, more perfect in its composition and manufacture than common glass, and often cut into ornamental forms. See Flint glass.  4. The glass over the dial of a watch case.  5. Anything resembling crystal, as clear water, etc. The blue crystal of the seas. Byron. Blood crystal. See under Blood.  -- Compound crystal. See under Compound.  -- Iceland crystal, a transparent variety of calcite, or crystallized calcium carbonate, brought from Iceland, and used in certain optical instruments, as the polariscope.  -- Rock crystal, or Mountain crystal, any transparent crystal of quartz, particularly of limpid or colorless quartz. 

CRYSTAL:  Consisting of, or like, crystal; clear; transparent; lucid; pellucid; crystalline. Through crystal walls each little mote will peep. Shak. By crystal streams that murmur through the meads. Dryden. The crystal pellets at the touch congeal, And from the ground rebounds the ratting hail. H. Brooks. 

CRYSTALLIN:  See Gobulin. 

CRYSTALLITE:  A minute mineral form like those common in glassy volcanic rocks and some slags, not having a definite crystalline outline and not referable to any mineral species, but marking the first step in the crystallization process. According to their form crystallites are called trichites, belonites, globulites, etc. 

CRYSTALLIZABLE:  Capable of being crystallized; that may be formed into crystals. 

CRYSTALLIZATION:  The act or process by which a substance in solidifying assumes the form and sructure of a crystal, or becomes crystallized.  2. The body formed by crystallizing; as, silver on precipitation forms arborescent crystallizations.  Note: The systems of crystallization are the several classes to which the forms are mathematically referable. They are most simply described according to the relative lengths and inclinations of certain assumed lines called axes; but the real distinction is the degree of symmetry characterizing them. 1. The Isometric, or Monometric, system has the axes all equal, as in the cube, octahedron, etc. 2. The Tetragonal, or Dimetric, system has a varying vertical axis, while the lateral are equal, as in the right square prism. 3. The Orthorhombic, or Trimetric, system has the three axes unequal, as in the rectangular and rhombic prism. In this system, the lateral axes are called, respectively, macrodiagonal and brachydiagonal.  -- The preceding are erect forms, the axes intersecting at right angles. The following are oblique. 4. The Monoclinic system, having one of the intersections oblique, as in the oblique rhombic prism. In this system, the lateral axes are called respectively, clinodiagonal and orthodiagonal. 5. The Triclinic system, having all the three intersections oblique, as in the oblique rhomboidal prism. There is also: 6. The Hexagonal system (one division of which is called Rhombohedral), in which there are three equal lateral axes, and a vertical axis of variable length, as in the hexagonal prism and the rhombohedron.  Note: The Diclinic system, sometimes recognized, with two oblique intersections, is only a variety of the Triclinic. 

CRYSTALLIZE:  To cause to form crystals, or to assume the crystalline form. 

CRYSTALLIZE:  To be converted into a crystal; to take on a crystalline form, through the action of crystallogenic or cohesive attraction.  CRYSTALLOGENIC; CRYSTALLOGENICAL Crys`tal*lo*gen"ic (-l-jn"k), Crys`tal*lo*gen"ic*al (--kal), a.  Pertaining to the production of crystals; crystal-producing; as, crystallogenic attraction. 

CRYSTALLOGENY:  The science which pertains to the production of crystals. 

CRYSTALLOGRAPHER:  One who describes crystals, or the manner of their formation; one versed in crystallography.  CRYSTALLOGRAPHIC; CRYSTALLOGRAPHICAL Crys`tal*lo*graph"ic (-l-grf"k), Crys`tal*lo*graph"ic*al (--kal), a. Etym: [Cf. F. crystallographique.]  Pertaining to crystallography. 

CRYSTALLOGRAPHICALLY:  In the manner of crystallography. 

CRYSTALLOID:  Crystal-like; transparent like crystal. 

CRYSTALLOID:  A body which, in solution, diffuses readily through animal membranes, and generally is capable of being crystallized; -- opposed to colloid.  2. (Bot.)  One of the microscopic particles resembling crystals, consisting of protein matter, which occur in certain plant cells; -- called also protein crystal.  CRYSTALLOLOGY; CRISTALLOLOGY Crys`tal*lol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]  The science of the crystalline structure of inorganic bodies. 

CRYSTALLOMANCY:  Divination by means of a crystal or other transparent body, especially a beryl. 

CRYSTALLOMETRY:  The art of measuring crystals. 

CRYSTALLURGY:  Crystallizaton. 

CTENOCYST:  An organ of the Ctenophora, supposed to be sensory. 

CTENOID:  A ctenoidean. 

CTENOIDEAN:  Relating to the Ctenoidei.  -- n.  One of the Ctenoidei. 

CTENOIDEI:  A group of fishes, established by Agassiz, characterized by having scales with a pectinated margin, as in the perch. The group is now generally regarded as artificial. 

CTENOPHORA:  A class of Coelenterata, commonly ellipsoidal in shape, swimming by means of eight longitudinal rows of paddles. The separate paddles somewhat resemble combs. 

CTENOPHORE:  (Zoöl.) One of the Ctenophora.  CTENOPHORIC; CTENOPHOROUS Cten`o*phor"ic (tn`-fr"k), Cte*noph"o*rous (t-nf"-rs), a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Ctenophora. 

CTENOSTOMATA:  A suborder of Bryozoa, usually having a circle of bristles below the tentacles. 

CUB:  To bring forth; -- said of animals, or in contempt, of persons. "Cubb'd in a cabin." Dryden. 

CUB:  To shut up or confine. [Obs.] Burton. 

CUBAN:  Of or pertaining to Cuba or its inhabitants.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Cuba. 

CUBATION:  The act of lying down; a reclining. [Obs.] 

CUBATORY:  Lying down; recumbent. [R.] 

CUBATURE:  The process of determining the solid or cubic contents of a body.  CUBBRIDGE-HEAD Cub"bridge-head` (kb"rjj-hd), n. (Naut.)  A bulkhead on the forecastle and half deck of a ship.  CUBBY; CUBBYHOLE Cub"by (kb"b), Cub"by*hole` (-hl`), n. Etym: [See Cub a stall.]  A snug or confined place. 

CUBDRAWN:  Sucked by cubs. [R.] This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch. Shak. 

CUBE:  A regular solid body, with six equal square sides.  2. (Math.)  The product obtained by taking a number or quantity three times as a factor; as, 4x4=16, and 16x4=64, the cube of 4. Cube ore (Min.), pharmacosiderite. It commonly crystallizes in cubes of a green color.  -- Cube root. (Math.), the number or quantity which, multiplied into itself, and then into the product, produces the given cube; thus, 3 is the cube root of 27, for 3x3x3 = 27.  -- Cube spar (Min.), anhydrite; anhydrous calcium sulphate. 

CUBE:  To raise to the third power; to obtain the cube of. 

CUBEB:  The small, spicy berry of a species of pepper (Piper Cubeba; in med., Cubeba officinalis), native in Java and Borneo, but now cultivated in various tropical countries. The dried unripe fruit is much used in medicine as a stimulant and purgative. 

CUBEBIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, cubebs; as, cubebic acid (a soft olive-green resin extracted from cubebs). 

CUBHOOD:  The state of being a cub. [Jocose] "From cubhood to old age." W. B. Dawkins.  CUBIC; CUBICAL Cu"bic (k"bk), Cu"bic*al (-b-kal), a. Etym: [L. cubicus, Gr. cubique. See Cube.]  1. Having the form or properties of a cube; contained, or capable of being contained, in a cube.  2. (Crystallog.)  Isometric or monometric; as, cubic cleavage. See Crystallization. Cubic equation, an equation in which the highest power of the unknown quantity is a cube.  -- Cubic foot, a volume equivalent to a cubical solid which measures a foot in each of its dimensions.  -- Cubic number, a number produced by multiplying a number into itself, and that product again by the same number. See Cube.  -- Cubical parabola (Geom.), two curves of the third degree, one plane, and one on space of three dimensions. 

CUBIC:  A curve of the third degree. Circular cubic. See under Circular. 

CUBICALLY:  In a cubical method. 

CUBICALNESS:  The quality of being cubical. 

CUBICLE:  A loding room; esp., a sleeping place partitioned off from a large dormitory. 

CUBICULAR:  Belonging to a chamber or bedroom. [Obs.] Howell. 

CUBIFORM:  Of the form of a cube. 

CUBILE:  The lowest course of stones in a building. 

CUBILOSE:  A mucilagenous secretion of certain birds found as the characteristic ingredient of edible bird's-nests. 

CUBISM:  A movement or phase in post-impressionism (which see, below). - - Cu"bist (#), n. 

CUBIT:  The forearm; the ulna, a bone of the arm extending from elbow to wrist. [Obs.]  2. A measure of length, being the distance from the elbow to the extremity of the middle finger.  Note: The cubit varies in length in different countries, the Roman cubit being 17,47 inches, the Greek 18,20, the Hebrew somewhat longer, and the English 18 inches. 

CUBITAL:  A sleeve covering the arm from the elbow to the hand. Crabb. 

CUBITED:  Having the measure of a cubit. 

CUBLESS:  Having no cubs. Byron. 

CUBOID:  Cube-shaped, or nearly so; as, the cuboid bone of the foot.  -- n. (Anat.)  The bone of the tarsus, which, in man and most mammals, supports the metatarsals of the fourth and fifth toes. 

CUBOIDAL:  Cuboid.  CUBO-OCTAHEDRAL Cu`bo-oc`ta*he"dral (k`b-k`t-hdral), a.  Presenting a combination of a cube and an octahedron.  CUBO-OCTAHEDRON Cu`bo-oc`ta*he"dron (-drn), n. (Crystallog.)  A combination of a cube and octahedron, esp. one in which the octahedral faces meet at the middle of the cubic edges. 

CUCA:  See Coca.  CUCKING STOOL Cuck"ing stool` (k. Etym: [Cf. AS. scealfingstol, a word of similar meaning, allied to scealfor a diver, mergus avis; or possibly from F. coquine a hussy, slut, jade, f. of coquin, OE. cokin, a rascal; or cf. Icel. k to dung, k dung, the name being given as to a disgracing or infamous punishment.]  A kind of chair formerly used for punishing scolds, and also dishonest tradesmen, by fastening them in it, usually in front of their doors, to be pelted and hooted at by the mob, but sometimes to be taken to the water and ducked; -- called also a castigatory, a tumbrel, and a trebuchet; and often, but not so correctly, a ducking stool. Sir. W. Scott. 

CUCKOLD:  To make a cuckold of, as a husband, by seducing his wife, or by her becoming an adulteress. Shak. 

CUCKOLDIZE:  To cuckold. Dryden. 

CUCKOLDLY:  Having the qualities of a cuckold; mean-spirited; sneaking. Shak. 

CUCKOLDOM:  The state of a cuckold; cuckolds, collectively. Addison. 

CUCKOLDRY:  The state of being a cuckold; the practice of making cuckolds.  CUCKOLD'S KNOT Cuck"old's knot` (kk"ldz nt`). (Naut.)  A hitch or knot, by which a rope is secured to a spar, the two parts of the rope being crossed and seized together; -- called also cuckold's neck. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

CUCKOO:  A bird belonging to Cuculus, Coccyzus, and several allied genera, of many species.  Note: The European cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) builds no nest of its own, but lays its eggs in the nests of other birds, to be hatched by them. The American yellow-billed cuckoo (Coccyzus Americanus) and the black-billed cuckoo (C. erythrophthalmus) build their own nests. Cuckoo bee (Zool.), a bee, parasitic in the larval stage in the nests of other bees, feeding either upon their food or larvae. They belong to the genera Nomada, Melecta, Epeolus, and others.  -- Cuckoo clock, a clock so constructed that at the time for striking it gives forth sounds resembling the cry of the cuckoo.  -- Cuckoo dove (Zoöl.), a long-tailed pigeon of the genus Macropygia. Many species inhabit the East Indies.  -- Cuckoo fish (Zoöl.), the European red gurnard (Trigla cuculus). The name probably alludes to the sound that it utters.  -- Cuckoo falcon (Zoöl.), any falcon of the genus Baza. The genus inhabits Africa and the East Indies.  -- Cuckoo maid (Zoöl.), the wryneck; -- called also cuckoo mate.  -- Cuckoo ray (Zoöl.), a British ray (Raia miraletus).  -- Cuckoo spit, or Cuckoo spittle. (a) A frothy secretion found upon plants, exuded by the larvae of certain insects, for concealment; -- called also toad spittle and frog spit. (b) (Zoöl.) A small hemipterous insect, the larva of which, living on grass and the leaves of plants, exudes this secretion. The insects belong to Aphrophora, Helochara, and allied genera.  -- Ground cuckoo, the chaparral cock. 

CUCKOOBUD:  A species of Ranunculus (R. bulbosus); -- called also butterflower, buttercup, kingcup, goldcup. Shak. 

CUCKOOFLOWER:  A species of Cardamine (C. pratensis), or lady's smock. Its leaves are used in salads. Also, the ragged robin (Lychnis Flos- cuculi). 

CUCKOOPINT:  A plant of the genus Arum (A. maculatum); the European wake- robin. 

CUCQUEAN:  A woman whose husband is unfaithful to her. [Obs.] 

CUCUJO:  The fire beetle of Mexico and the West Indies.  CUCULLATE; CUCULLATED Cu"cul*late (k"kl-lt or k-kl"lt), Cu"cul*la`ted (-l`td or -l-td), a. Etym: [LL. cullatus, fr. L. cucullus a cap, hood. See Cowl a hood.]  1. Hooded; cowled; covered, as with a hood. Sir T. Browne.  2. (Bot.)  Having the edges toward the base rolled inward, as the leaf of the commonest American blue violet.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) Having the prothorax elevated so as to form a sort of hood, receiving the head, as in certain insects. (b) Having a hoodlike crest on the head, as certain birds, mammals, and reptiles. 

CUCULLUS:  A hood-shaped organ, resembling a cowl or monk's hood, as certain concave and arched sepals or petals.  2.  (Zoöl.) A color marking or structure on the head somewhat resembling a hood. 

CUCULOID:  Like or belonging to the cuckoos (Cuculidæ). 

CUCUMBER:  A creeping plant, and its fruit, of several species of the genus Cucumis, esp. Cucumis sativus, the unripe fruit of which is eaten either fresh or picked. Also, similar plants or fruits of several other genera. See below. Bitter cucumber (Bot.), the Citrullus or Cucumis Colocynthis. SeeColocynth.  -- Cucumber beetle. (Zoöl.) (a) A small, black flea-beetle (Crepidodera cucumeris), which destroys the leaves of cucumber, squash, and melon vines. (b) The squash beetle.  -- Cucumber tree.(a) A large ornamental or shade tree of the genus Magnolia (M. acuminata), so called from a slight resemblance of its young fruit to a small cucumber. (b) An East Indian plant (Averrhoa Bilimbi) which produces the fruit known as bilimbi.  -- Jamaica cucumber, Jerusalem cucumber, the prickly-fruited gherkin (Cucumis Anguria).  -- Snake cucumber, a species (Cucumis flexuosus) remarkable for its long, curiously-shaped fruit.  -- Squirting cucumber, a plant (Ecbalium Elaterium) whose small oval fruit separates from the footstalk when ripe and expels its seeds and juice with considerable force through the opening thus made. See Elaterium.  -- Star cucumber,a climbing weed (Sicyos angulatus) with prickly fruit. 

CUCUMIFORM:  Having the form of a cucumber; having the form of a cylinder tapered and rounded at the ends, and either straight or curved. 

CUCUMIS:  A genus of plants including the cucumber, melon, and same kinds of gourds.  CUCURBIT; CUCURBITE Cu*cur"bit Cu*cur"bite (k-kr"bt), n. Etym: [L. cucurbita a gourd: cf. F. cucurbite. See Gourd.] (Chem.)  A vessel of flask for distillation, used with, or forming part of, an alembic; a matrass; -- originally in the shape of a gourd, with a wide mouth. See Alembic. 

CUCURBITACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants of which the cucumber, melon, and gourd are common examples. 

CUCURBITIVE:  Having the shape of a gourd seed; -- said of certain small worms. 

CUDBEAR:  A lichen (Lecanora tartarea), from which the powder is obtained. 

CUDDEN:  The coalfish. See 3d Cuddy. 

CUDDLE:  To She cuddles low beneath the brake; Nor would she stay, nor dares she fly. Prior. 

CUDDLE:  To embrace closely; to foundle. Forby. 

CUDDLE:  A close embrace. 

CUDDY:  A lever mounted on a tripod for lifting stones, leveling up railroad ties, etc. Knight. 

CUDDY:  A small cabin: also, the galley or kitchen of a vessel. 

CUDDY:  The coalfish (Pollachius carbonarius). [Written also cudden.] 

CUDGEL:  A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, and wielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon. He getteth him a grievous crabtree cudgel and . . . falls to rating of them as if they were dogs. Bunyan. Cudgel play, a fight or sportive contest with cudgels.  -- To cross the cudgels, to forbear or give up the contest; -- a phrase borrowed from the practice of cudgel players, who lay one cudgel over another when the contest is ended.  -- To take up cudgels for, to engage in a contest in behalf of (some one or something). 

CUDGEL:  To beat with a cudgel. An he here, I would cudgel him like a dog. Shak. To cudgel one's brains, to exercise one's wits. 

CUDGELER:  One who beats with a cudgel. [Written also cudgeller.] 

CUDWEED:  A small composite plant with cottony or silky stem and leaves, primarily a species of Gnaphalium, but the name is now given to many plants of different genera, as Filago, Antennaria, etc.; cottonweed. 

CUE:  To form into a cue; to braid; to twist. 

CUE:  A small portion of bread or beer; the quantity bought with a farthing or half farthing. [Obs.]  Note: The term was formerly current in the English universities, the letter q being the mark in the buttery books to denote such a portion. Nares. Hast thou worn Gowns in the university, tossed logic, Sucked philosophy, eat cues Old Play. 

CUERPO:  The body. In cuerpo, without full dress, so that the shape of the Body is exposed; hence, naked or uncovered. Exposed in cuerpo to their rage. Hudibras. 

CUESTA:  A sloping plain, esp. one with the upper end at the crest of a cliff; a hill or ridge with one face steep and the opposite face gently sloping. [Southwestern U. S.] 

CUFF:  To fight; to scuffle; to box. While the peers cuff to make the rabble sport. Dryden. 

CUFF:  A blow; esp.,, a blow with the open hand; a box; a slap. Snatcheth his sword, and fiercely to him flies; Who well it wards, and quitten cuff with cuff. Spenser. Many a bitter kick and cuff. Hudibras. 

CUFFY:  A name for a negro. [Slang] 

CUFIC:  Of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabic language. [Written also Kufic.]  CUI BONO Cui` bo"no. [L.]  Lit., for whose benefit; incorrectly understood, it came to be used in the sense, of what good or use; and hence, (what) purpose; object; specif., the ultimate object of life. 

CUINAGE:  The stamping of pigs of tin, by the proper officer, with the arms of the duchy of Cornwall. 

CUIRASS:  An armor of bony plates, somewhat resembling a cuirass. 

CUIRASSED:  Having a covering of bony plates, resembling a cuirass;- said of certain fishes. 

CUIRASSIER:  A soldier armed with a cuirass. Milton.  CUIR BOUILLI Cuir" bou`illi". [F.]  In decorative art, boiled leather, fitted by the process to receive impressed patterns, like those produced by chasing metal, and to retain the impression permanently. 

CUISH:  Defensive armor for the thighs. [ Written also cuisse, and quish.] 

CULASSE:  The lower faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond. 

CULDEE:  One of a class of anchorites who lived in various parts of Scotland, Ireland, and Wales. The pure Culdees Were Albyn's earliest priests of God. Campbell.  CUL-DE-SAC Cul`-de-sac" (ku`de-sk" or kul`de-sk"), n.; pl. Culs-de-sac (ku`- or kulz`-). Etym: [ F., lit., bottom of a bag.]  1. A passage with only one outlet, as a street closed at one end; a blind alley; hence, a trap.  2. (Mil.)  a position in which an army finds itself with no way of exit but to the front.  3. (Anat.)  Any bag-shaped or tubular cavity, vessel, or organ, open only at one end. 

CULERAGE:  See Culrage. 

CULEX:  A genus of dipterous insects, including the gnat and mosquito. 

CULICID:  Like or pertaining to the Mosquito family (Culicidæ). -- n.  A culicid insect. 

CULICIFORM:  Gnat-shaped. 

CULINARILY:  In the manner of a kitchen; in connection with a kitchen or cooking. 

CULINARY:  Relating to the kitchen, or to the art of cookery; used in kitchens; as, a culinary vessel; the culinary art. 

CULL:  To separate, select, or pick out; to choose and gather or collect; as, to cuil flowers. From his herd he culls, For slaughter, from the fairest of his bulls. Dryden. Whitest honey in fairy gardens culled. Tennyson. 

CULL:  A cully; a dupe; a gull. See Gully. 

CULLENDER:  A strainer. See Colander. 

CULLER:  One who piks or chooses; esp., an inspector who select wares suitable for market. 

CULLET:  Broken glass for remelting. 

CULLET:  A small central plane in the back of a cut gem. See Collet, 3 (b). 

CULLIBILITY:  Gullibility. [R.] Swift. 

CULLIBLE:  Easily deceived; gullible. 

CULLING:  Anything separated or selected from a mass. 

CULLION:  A mean wretch; a base fellow; a poltroon; a scullion. "Away, base cullions." Shak. 

CULLIONLY:  Mean; base. Shak. 

CULLIS:  A strong broth of meat, strained and made clear for invalids; also, a savory jelly. [Obs.] When I am exellent at caudles And cullises . . . you shall be welcome to me. Beau. & Fl. 

CULLIS:  A gutter in a roof; a channel or groove. 

CULLY:  A person easily deceived, tricked, or imposed on; a mean dupe; a gull. I have learned that . . . I am not the first cully whom she has passed upon for a countess. Addison. 

CULLY:  To trick, cheat, or impose on; to deceive. "Tricks to cully fools." Pomfret. 

CULLYISM:  The state of being a cully. Less frequent instances of eminent cullyism. Spectator. 

CULM:  The stalk or stem of grain and grasses (including the bamboo), jointed and usually hollow. 

CULMEN:  The dorsal ridge of a bird's bill. 

CULMIFEROUS:  Having jointed stems or culms. 

CULMIFEROUS:  Containing, or abounding in, culm or glance coal. 

CULMINAL:  Pertaining to a culmen. 

CULMINANT:  Being vertical, or at the highest point of altitude; hence, predominant. [R.] 

CULMINATE:  Growing upward, as distinguished from a laterral growth; -- applied to the growth of corals. Dana. 

CULPA:  Negligence or fault, as distinguishable from dolus (deceit, fraud), which implies intent, culpa being imputable to defect of intellect, dolus to defect of heart. Wharton. 

CULPABILITY:  The state of being culpable. 

CULPATORY:  Expressing blame; censuring; reprehensory; inculpating. Adjectives . . . commonly used by Latian authors in a culpatory sense. Walpole. 

CULPE:  Blameworthiness. [Obs.] Banished out of the realme . . . without culpe. E. Hall. 

CULPON:  A shered; a fragment; a strip of wood. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CULRAGE:  Smartweed (Polygonum Hydropiper). 

CULTCH:  Empty oyster shells and other substances laid down on oyster grounds to furnish points for the attachment of the spawn of the oyster. [Also written cutch.] 

CULTER:  A colter. See Colter. 

CULTIROSTRAL:  Having a bill shaped like the colter of a plow, or like a knife, as the heron, stork, etc. 

CULTIROSTRES:  A tribe of wading birds including the stork, heron, crane, etc. 

CULTIVABLE:  Capable of being cultivated or tilled. Todd. 

CULTIVATABLE:  Cultivable. 

CULTIVATOR:  Sharp-edged and pointed; shaped like a pruning knife, as the beak of certain birds. 

CULTRIFORM:  Shaped like a pruning knife; cultrate. 

CULTRIVOROUS:  Devouring knives; swallowing, or pretending to swallow, knives; -- applied to persons who have swallowed, or have seemed to swallow, knives with impunity. Dunglison. 

CULTURABLE:  Capable of, or fit for, being cultivated; capable or becoming cultured. London Spectator. 

CULTURAL:  Of or pertaining to culture. 

CULTURE:  To cultivate; to educate. They came . . . into places well inhabited and cultured. Usher. 

CULTURED:  The artificial features of a district as distinguished from the natural. 

CULTURELESS:  Having no culture.  CULTURE MYTH Culture myth.  A myth accounting for the discovery of arts and sciences or the advent of a higher civilization, as in the Prometheus myth. 

CULTUS:  Established or accepted religious rites or usages of worship; state of religious development. Cf.Cult, 2.  CULTUS COD Cul"tus cod` (kd`). Etym: [Chinook cultus of little worth.] (Zoöl.)  See Cod, and Buffalo cod, under Buffalo. 

CULVER:  A dove. "Culver in the falcon's fist." Spenser. 

CULVER:  A culverin. Falcon and culver on each tower Stood prompt their deadly hail to shower. Sir W. Scott. 

CULVERHOUSE:  A dovecote. 

CULVERIN:  A long cannon of the 16th century, usually an 18-pounder with serpent-shaped handles. Trump, and drum, and roaring culverin. Mac 

CULVERKEY:  The root of a handsome erect herb (Leptandra, syn. Veronica, Virginica) common in most moist woods of North America , used as an active cathartic and emetic; also, the plant itself. 

CULVERT:  A transverse drain or waterway of masonry under a road, railroad, canal, etc.; a small bridge. 

CULVERTAIL:  Dovetail. 

CULVERTAILED:  United or fastened by a dovetailed joint. 

CUMACEA:  An order of marine Crustacea, mostly of small size. 

CUMBENT:  Lying down; recumbent. J. Dyer. 

CUMBER:  To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to be burdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining an object, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble. Why asks he what avails him not in fight, And would but cumber and retard his flight Dryden. Martha was cumbered about much serving. Luke x. 40. Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground Luke xiii. 7. The multiplying variety of arguments, especially frivolous ones, . . . but cumbers the memory. Locke. 

CUMBER:  Trouble; embarrassment; distress. [Obs.] [Written also comber.] A place of much distraction and cumber. Sir H. Wotton. Sage counsel in cumber. Sir W. Scott. 

CUMBRANCE:  Encumbrance. [Obs.] Extol not riches then, the toil of fools, The wise man's cumbrance, if not snare. Milton. 

CUMBRIAN:  Pertaining to Cumberland, England, or to a system of rocks found there. Cumbrian system (Geol.), the slate or graywacke system of rocks, now included in the Cambrian or Silurian system; -- so called because most prominent at Cumberland. 

CUMENE:  A colorless oily hydrocarbon, C6H5.C3H7, obtained by the distillation of cuminic acid; -- called also cumol. 

CUMFREY:  See Comfrey. 

CUMIC:  See Cuming. 

CUMIDINE:  A strong, liquid, organic base, C3H7.C6H4.NH2, homologous with aniline. 

CUMIN:  A dwarf umbelliferous plant, somewhat resembling fennel (Cuminum Cyminum), cultivated for its seeds, which have a bitterish, warm taste, with an aromatic flavor, and are used like those of anise and caraway. [Written also cummin.] Rank-smelling rue, and cumin good for eyes. Spenser. Black cumin (Bot.), a plant (Nigella sativa) with pungent seeds, used by the Afghans, etc. 

CUMINIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, cumin, or from oil of caraway; as, cuminic acid. Cuminic acid (Chem.), white crystalline substance, C3H7.C6H4.CO2H, obtained from oil of caraway. 

CUMINIL:  A substance, analogous to benzil, obtained from oil of caraway. 

CUMINOL:  A liquid, C3H7.C6H4.CHO, obtained from oil of caraway; -- called also cuminic aldehyde. 

CUMMERBUND:  A sash for the waist; a girdle. [India] 

CUMMIN:  Same as Cumin. Ye pay tithe of mint, and cummin. Matt. xxiii. 23. 

CUMQUAT:  See Kumquat. 

CUMSHAW:  A present or bonus; -- originally applied to that paid on ships which entered the port of Canton. S. Wells Williams. 

CUMSHAW:  To give or make a present to.  CUMU-CIRRO-STRATUS Cu"mu-cir`ro-stra"tus (k`m*-sr`r-str"ts), n. (Meteor.)  Nimbus, or rain cloud. See Nimbus, and Cloud. 

CUMULATE:  To gather or throw into a heap; to heap together; to accumulate. Shoals of shells, bedded and cumulated heap upon heap. Woodward. 

CUMULATION:  The act of heaping together; a heap. See Accumulation. 

CUMULATIST:  One who accumulates; one who collects. [R.] 

CUMULOSE:  Full of heaps. 

CUMULOSTRATUS:  A form of cloud. See Cloud. 

CUMULUS:  One of the four principal forms of clouds. SeeCloud. 

CUN:  To con (a ship). [Obs.] 

CUN:  To know. See Con. [Obs.] 

CUNABULA:  The extant copies of the first or earliest printed books, or of such as were printed in the 15th century. 

CUNCTATION:  Delay; procrastination. [R.] Carlyle. 

CUNCTATIVE:  Slow; tardy; dilatory; causing delay. 

CUNCTATOR:  One who delays or lingers. [R.] 

CUNCTIPOTENT:  All-powerful; omnipotent. [R] "God cunctipotent." Neale (Trans. Rhythm of St. Bernard). 

CUND:  To con (a ship). [Obs.] 

CUNDURANGO:  The bark of a South American vine (Gonolobus Condurango) of the Milkweed family. It has been supposed, but erroneously, to be a cure for cancer. [Written also condurango.] 

CUNEAL:  Relating to a wedge; wedge-shaped.  CUNEATE; CUNEATED Cu"ne*ate (k"n-t), Cu"ne*a`ted (-`tEd), a. Etym: [L.cuneatus, fr. cuneus a wege SeeCoin.]  Wedge-shaped; (Bot.), wedge-shaped, with the point at the base; as, a cuneate leaf. 

CUNEATIC:  Cuneiform. "Cuneatic decipherment." Sayce.  CUNEIFORM; CUNIFORM Cu*ne"i*form (k-n"-frm), Cu"ni*form (k"n-frm), a. Etym: [L. cuneus a wedge + -form: cf. F. cunei-forme. See Coin.]  1. Wedge-shaped; as, a cuneiform bone; -- especially applied to the wedge-shaped or arrowheaded characters of ancient Persian and Assyrian inscriptions. See Arrowheaded.  2. Pertaining to, or versed in, the ancient wedge-shaped characters, or the inscriptions in them. "A cuneiform scholar." Rawlinson.  CUNEIFORM; CUNIFORM Cu*ne"i*form, Cu"ni*form, n.  1. The wedge-shaped characters used in ancient Persian and Assyrian inscriptions. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).  2. (Anat.) (a) One of the three tarsal bones supporting the first, second third metatarsals. They are usually designated as external, middle, and internal, or ectocuniform, mesocuniform, and entocuniform, respectively. (b) One of the carpal bones usually articulating wich the ulna; -- called also pyramidal and ulnare. 

CUNETTE:  A drain trench, in a ditch or moat; -- called also cuvette. 

CUNNINGLY:  In a cunning manner; with cunning. 

CUNNINGMAN:  A fortune teller; one who pretends to reveal mysteries. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

CUNNINGNESS:  Quality of being cunning; craft. 

CUP:  Repeated potations; social or exessive indulgence in intoxicating drinks; revelry. Thence from cups to civil broils. Milton.  4. That which is to be received or indured; that which is allotted to one; a portion. O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Matt. xxvi. 39.  5. Anything shaped like a cup; as, the cup of an acorn, or of a flower. The cowslip's golden cup no more I see. Shenstone.  6. (Med.)  A cupping glass or other vessel or instrument used to produce the vacuum in cupping. Cup and ball, a familiar toy of children, having a cup on the top of a piece of wood to which, a ball is attached by a cord; the ball, being thrown up, is to be caught in the cup; bilboquet. Milman.- Cup and can, familiar companions.  -- Dry cup, Wet cup (Med.), a cup used for dry or wet cupping. See under Cupping.  -- To be in one's cups, to be drunk. 

CUP:  To apply a cupping apparatus to; to subject to the operation of cupping. See Cupping.  3. (Mech.)  To make concave or in the form of a cup; as, to cup the end of a screw. 

CUPBEARER:  One of the attendants of a prince or noble, permanently charged with the performance of this office for his master. "I was the king's cupbearer." Neh. i. 11. 

CUPBOARD:  To collect, as into a cupboard; to hoard. [R.] Shak. 

CUPEL:  A shallow porus cup, used in refining precious metals, commonly made of bone ashes (phosphate of lime). [Written also coppel.] Cupel dust, powder used in purifying metals. 

CUPEL:  To refine by means of a cupel. 

CUPELLATION:  The act or process of refining gold or silver, etc., in a cupel.  Note: The process consist in exposing the cupel containing the metal to be assayed or refined to a hot blast, by which the lead, copper, tin, etc., are oxidized, dissolved, and carried down into the porous cupel, leaving the unoxidizable precious metal. If lead is not already present in the alloy it must be added before cupellation. 

CUPFUL:  As much as a cup will hold.  CUP-GALL Cup"-gall` (-gl`), n.  A kind of oak-leaf gall. See Gall. 

CUPID:  The god of love, son of Venus; usually represented as a naked, winged boy with bow and arrow. Pretty dimpled boys, like smiling cupids. Shak. 

CUPIDITY:  A kind of lichen, of the genus Cladonia. 

CUPOLA:  A roof having a rounded form, hemispherical or nearly so; also, a celing having the same form. When on a large scale it is usually called dome.  2. A small structure standing on the top of a dome; a lantern.  3. A furnace for melting iron or other metals in large quantity, -- used chiefly in foundries and steel works.  4. A revoling shot-proof turret for heavy ordnance.  5. (Anat.)  The top of the spire of the cochlea of the ear. 

CUPPER:  One who performs the operation of cupping. 

CUPPING:  The operation of drawing blood to or from the surface of the person by forming a partial vacuum over the spot. Also, sometimes, a similar operation for drawing pus from an abscess. Cupping glass, a glass cup in which a partial vacuum is produced by heat, in the process of cupping.  -- Dry cupping, the application of a cupping instrument without scarification, to draw blood to the surface, produce counter irritation, etc.  -- Wet cupping, the operation of drawing blood by the application of a cupping instrument after scarification. 

CUPREOUS:  Consisting of copper or resembling copper; coppery. 

CUPRIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its lowest proportion. 

CUPRIFEROUS:  Containing copper; as, cupriferous silver. 

CUPRITE:  The red oxide of copper; red copper; an important ore of copper, occurring massive and in isometric crystals. 

CUPROID:  (Crystalloq.) A solid related to a tetrahedron, and contained under twelve equal triangles.  CUP-ROSE Cup"-rose (kp"rz), n.  Red poppy. See Cop-rose. 

CUPROUS:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its highest proportion. 

CUPRUM:  Copper.  CUP SHAKE Cup shake. (Forestry)  A shake or fissure between the annual rings of a tree, found oftenest near the roots. 

CUPULATE:  Having or bearing cupeles; cupuliferous. 

CUPULE:  A cuplet or little cup, as the acorn; the husk or bur of the filbert, chestnut, etc.  2. (Zoöl.)  A sucker or acetabulum. 

CUPULIFEROUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants ot which the oak and the chestnut are examples, -- trees bearing a smooth, solid nut inclosed in some kind of cup or bur; bearing, or furnished with, a cupule. 

CURABILITY:  The state of being curable; curableness. 

CURABLE:  Capable of being cured; admitting remedy. "Curable diseases." Harvey.  -- Cur"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Cur`a*bly, adv.  CURACAO; CURACOA Cu`ra*çao", Cu`ra*çoa", (k`r-s"), n.  A liqueur, or cordial, flavored with orange peel, cinnamon, and mace; -- first made at the island of Curaçcao. 

CURACY:  The office or employment of a curate.  CURARE; CURARI Cu*ra"re Cu*ra"ri (k-r"r), n. Etym: [Native name. Cf. Wourall.]  A black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.). It sometimes has little effect when taken internally, but is quickly fatal when introduced into the blood, and used by the Indians as an arrow poison. [Written also urari, woorali, woorari, etc.] 

CURARINE:  A deadly alkaloid extracted from the curare poison and from the Strychnos toxifera. It is obtained in crystalline colorless salts. 

CURARIZE:  To poison with curare. 

CURASSOW:  A large gallinaceous bird of the American genera Crax, Ourax, etc., of the family Cracidæ.  Note: The crested curassow (Crax alector) is black, and about the size of a small hen-turkey, with an erectile crest of curled feathers. It ranges from Mexico to Brazil. The galeated curassow or cushew bird (Ourax Pauxi) is similar in size, and has a large, hollow, blue, pear-shaped protuberance on the head. 

CURAT:  A cuirass or breastplate. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CURATE:  One who has the cure souls; originally, any clergyman, but now usually limited to one who assist a rector or vicar Hook. All this the good old man performed alone, He spared no pains, for curate he had none. Dryden. 

CURATESHIP:  A curacy. 

CURATION:  Cure; healing. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CURATIVE:  Relating to, or employed in, the cure of diseases; tending to cure. Arbuthnot. 

CURATORSHIP:  The office of a curator. 

CURB:  To bend; to crouch; to cringe. [Obs.] Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg, Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good. Shak. 

CURB:  An assemblage of three or more pieces of timber, or a metal member, forming a frame around an opening, and serving to maintain the integrity of that opening; also, a ring of stone serving a similar purpose, as at the eye of a dome.  3. A frame or wall round the mouth of a well; also, a frame within a well to prevent the earth caving in.  4. A curbstone.  5. (Far.)  A swelling on the back part of the hind leg of a horse, just behind the lowest part of the hock joint, generally causing lameness. James Law. Curb bit, a stiff bit having branches by which a leverage is obtained upon the jaws of horse. Knight.  -- Curb pins (Horology), the pins on the regulator which restrain the hairspring.  -- Curb plate (Arch.), a plate serving the purpose of a curb.  -- Deck curb. See under Deck. 

CURBLESS:  Having no curb or restraint.  CURB ROOF Curb" roof` (rf`).  A roof having a double slope, or composed, on each side, of two parts which have unequal inclination; a gambrel roof. 

CURBSTONE:  A stone Curbstone broker.See under Broker. 

CURCH:  See Courche. 

CURCULIO:  One of a large group of beetles (Rhynchophora) of many genera; -- called also weevils, snout beetles, billbeetles, and billbugs. Many of the species are very destructive, as the plum curculio, the corn, grain, and rice weevils, etc. 

CURCULIONIDOUS:  Pertaining to the Curculionideæ, or weevil tribe. 

CURCUMA:  A genus of plants of the order Scitamineæ, including the turmeric plant (Curcuma longa). Curcuma paper. (Chem.) See Turmeric paper, under Turmeric. 

CURCUMIN:  The coloring principle of turmeric, or curcuma root, extracted as an orange yellow crystalline substance, C14H14O4, with a green fluorescence.  Note: It possesses acid properties and with alkalies forms brownish salts. This change in color from yellow to brown is the characteristic reaction of tumeric paper. See Turmeric paper, under Turmeric. 

CURD:  To cause to coagulate or thicken; to cause to congeal; to curdle. Does it curd thy blood To say I am thy mother Shak. 

CURD:  To become coagulated or thickened; to separate into curds and whey Shak. 

CURDINESS:  The state of being curdy. 

CURDLESS:  Destitute of curd. 

CURDY:  Like curd; full of curd; coagulated. "A curdy mass." Arbuthnot. 

CURE:  A curate; a pardon. 

CUREALL:  A remedy for all diseases, o 

CURELESS:  Incapable of cure; incurable. With patience undergo A cureless ill, since fate will have it so. Dryden. 

CURETTE:  A scoop or ring with either a blunt or a cutting edge, for removing substances from the walls of a cavity, as from the eye, ear, or womb. 

CURIA:  The court of a sovereign or of a feudal lord; also; his residence or his household. Burrill.  3. (Law)  Any court of justice.  4. The Roman See in its temporal aspects, including all the machinery of administration; -- called also curia Romana. 

CURIAL:  Of or pertaining to the papal curia; as, the curial etiquette of the Vatican. -- n.  A member of a curia, esp. of that of Rome or the later Italian sovereignties. 

CURIALISM:  The wiew or doctrins of the ultramontane party in the Latin Church. Gladstone. 

CURIALIST:  One who belongs to the ultramontane party in the Latin Church. Shipley. 

CURIALITY:  The privileges, prerogatives, or retinue of a court. [Obs.] Bacon. 

CURIET:  A cuirass. [Obs.] Spenser. 

CURING:  p. a. & vb. n. of Cure. Curing house, a building in which anything is cured; especially, in the West Indies, a building in which sugar is drained and dried. 

CURIO:  Any curiosity or article of virtu. The busy world, which does not hunt poets as collectors hunt for curios. F. Harrison. 

CURIOLOGIC:  Pertaining to a rude kind of hieroglyphics, in which a thing is represented by its picture instead of by a symbol. 

CURIOSO:  A virtuoso. 

CURIOUSLY:  In a curious manner. 

CURL:  To shape (the brim) into a curve. 

CURLED:  Having curls; curly; sinuous; wavy; as, curled maple (maple having fibers which take a sinnuous course). Curled hair (Com.), the hair of the manes and tails of horses, prepared for upholstery purposes. McElrath. 

CURLEDNESS:  State of being curled; curliness. 

CURLEW:  A wading bird of the genus Numenius, remarkable for its long, slender, curved bill.  Note: The common European curlew is N. arquatus. The long-billed (N. longirostris), the Hudsonian (N. Hudsonicus), and the Eskimo curlew (N. borealis, are American species. The name is said to imitate the note of the European species. Curlew Jack (Zoöl.) the whimbrel or lesser curlew.  -- Curlew sandpiper (Zoöl.), a sandpiper (Tringa ferruginea, or subarquata), common in Europe, rare in America, resembling a curlew in having a long, curved bill. See Illustation in Appendix. 

CURLINESS:  State of being curly. 

CURLINGLY:  With a curl, or curls. 

CURLY:  Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples; crinkled. 

CURLYCUE:  Some thing curled or spiral,, as a flourish made with a pen on paper, or with skates on the ice; a trick; a frolicsome caper. [Sometimes written carlicue.] [ Colloq. U.S.] To cut a curlycue, to make a flourish; to cut a caper. I gave a flourishing about the room and cut a curlycue with my right foot. McClintock. 

CURMUDGEON:  An avaricious, grasping fellow; a miser; a niggard; a churl. A gray-headed curmudgeon of a negro. W. Irving. 

CURMUDGEONLY:  Like a curmudgeon; niggardly; churlish; as, a curmudgeonly fellow. 

CURMURRING:  Murmuring; grumbling; -- sometimes applied to the rumbling produced by a slight attack of the gripes. [Scot.] Burns. 

CURR:  To coo. [Scot.] The owlets hoot, the owlets curr. Wordsworth. 

CURRANT:  A shrub or bush of several species of the genus Ribes (a genus also including the gooseberry); esp., the Ribes rubrum. Black currant,a shrub or bush (Ribes nigrum and R. floridum) and its black, strong-flavored, tonic fruit.  -- Cherry currant, a variety of the red currant, having a strong, symmetrical bush and a very large berry.  -- Currant borer (Zoöl.), the larva of an insect that bores into the pith and kills currant bushes; specif., the larvae of a small clearwing moth (Ægeria tipuliformis) and a longicorn beetle (Psenocerus supernotatus).  -- Currant worm (Zoöl.), an insect larva which eats the leaves or fruit of the currant. The most injurious are the currant sawfly (Nematus ventricosus), introduced from Europe, and the spanworm (Eufitchia ribearia). The fruit worms are the larva of a fly (Epochra Canadensis), and a spanworm (Eupithecia).  -- Flowering currant, Missouri currant, a species of Ribes (R. aureum), having showy yellow flowers. 

CURRENTLY:  In a current manner; generally; commonly; as, it is currently believed. 

CURRIE:  See 2d & 3d Curry. 

CURRIER:  One who curries and dresses leather, after it is tanned. 

CURRISH:  Having the qualities, or exhibiting the characteristics, of a cur; snarling; quarrelsome; snappish; churlish; hence, also malicious; malignant; brutal. Thy currish spirit Governed a wolf. Shak. Some currish plot, -- some trick. Lockhart. -- Cur"rish*ly, adv.  -- Cur"rish*ness, n. 

CURRY:  A kind of sauce much used in India, containing garlic, pepper, ginger, and other strong spices.  2. A stew of fowl, fish, or game, cooked with curry. Curry powder (Cookery), a condiment used for making curry, formed of various materials, including strong spices, as pepper, ginger, garlic, coriander seed, etc. 

CURRY:  To flavor or cook with curry. 

CURRYCOMB:  A kind of card or comb having rows of metallic teeth or serrated ridges, used in curryng a horse. 

CURRYCOMB:  To comb with a currycomb. 

CURSE:  To utter imprecations or curses; to affirm or deny with imprecations; to swear. Then began he to curse and to swear. Matt. xxi. 74. His spirits hear me, And yet I need must curse. Shak. 

CURSED:  Deserving a curse; execrable; hateful; detestable; abominable. Let us fly this cursed place. Milton. This cursed quarrel be no more renewed. Dryden. 

CURSEDLY:  In a cursed manner; miserably; in a manner to be detested; enormously. [Low] 

CURSER:  One who curses. 

CURSHIP:  The state of being a cur; one who is currish. [Jocose] How durst he, I say, oppose thy curship! Hudibras. 

CURSITATING:  Moving about slightly. [R.] H. Bushnell. 

CURSITOR:  An officer in the Court of Chancery, whose business is to make out original writs. 

CURSIVE:  Running; flowing. Cursive hand,a running handwriting. 

CURSOR:  Any part of a mathematical instrument that moves or slides backward and forward upon another part. 

CURSORARY:  Cursory; hasty. [Obs.] With a cursorary eye o'erglanced the articles. Shak. 

CURSORILY:  In a running or hasty manner; carelessly. 

CURSORINESS:  The quality of being cursory; superficial performance; as, cursoriness of view. 

CURST:  imp. & p.p. of Curse. 

CURST:  Froward; malignant; mischievous; malicious; snarling. [Obs.] Though his mind Be ne'er so curst, his tonque is kind. Crashaw. 

CURSTFULLY:  Peevishly; vexatiously; detestably. [Obs.] "Curstfully mad." Marston. 

CURSTNESS:  Peevishness; malignity; frowardness; crabbedness; surliness. [Obs.] Shak. 

CURT:  Characterized by exessive brevity; short; rudely concise; as, curt limits; a curt answer. The curt, yet comprehensive reply. W. Irving. 

CURTAIL:  To cut off the end or tail, or any part, of; to shorten; to abridge; to diminish; to reduce. I, that am curtailed of this fair proportion. Shak. Our incomes have been curtailed; his salary has been doubled. Macualay. 

CURTAIL:  The scroll termination of any architectural member, as of a step, etc.  CURTAIL DOG Cur"tail dog` (d.  A dog with a docked tail; formerly, the dog of a person not qualified to course, which, by the forest laws, must have its tail cut short, partly as a mark, and partly from a notion that the tail is necessary to a dog in running; hence, a dog not fit for sporting. Hope is a curtail dog in some affairs. Shak. 

CURTAILER:  One who curtails. 

CURTAILMENT:  The act or result of curtailing or cutting off. Bancroft. 

CURTAIN:  That part of the rampart and parapet which is between two bastions or two gates. See Illustrations of Ravelin and Bastion.  3. (Arch.)  That part of a wall of a building which is between two pavilions, towers, etc.  4. A flag; an ensign; -- in contempt. [Obs.] Shak. Behind the curtain, in concealment; in secret.  -- Curtain lecture, a querulous lecture given by a wife to her husband within the bed curtains, or in bed. Jerrold. A curtain lecture is worth all the sermons in the world for teaching the virtues of patience and long-suffering. W. Irving. -- The curtain falls, the performance closes.  -- The curtain rises, the performance begins.  -- To draw the curtain, to close ot over an object, or to remove it; hence: (a) To hide or to disclose an object. (b) To commence or close a performance.  -- To drop the curtain, to end the tale, or close the performance. 

CURTAIN:  To inclose as with curtains; to furnish with curtains. So when the sun in bed Curtained with cloudy red. Milton. 

CURTAL:  Curt; brief; laconic. Essays and curtal aphorisms. Milton. Curtal dog. See Curtail dog. 

CURTAL:  A horse with a docked tail; hence, anything cut short. [Obs] Nares.  CURTAL AX; CURTLE AX; CURTELASSE Cur"tal ax`, Cur"tle ax`, Curte"lasse (krt"las).  A corruption of Cutlass.  CURTAL FRIAR Cur"tal fri`ar (fr`r).  A friar who acted as porter at the gate of a monastery. Sir W. Scott. 

CURTANA:  The pointless sword carried before English monarchs at their coronation, and emblematically considered as the sword of mercy; -- also called the sword of Edward the Confessor. 

CURTATE:  Shortened or reduced; -- said of the distance of a planet from the sun or earth, as measured in the plane of the ecliptic, or the distance from the sun or earth to that point where a perpendicular, let fall from the planet upon the plane of the ecliptic, meets the ecliptic. Curtate cycloid. (Math.) See Cycloid. 

CURTATION:  The interval by which the curtate distance of a planet is less than the true distance. 

CURTEIN:  Same as Curtana. 

CURTES:  Courteous. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

CURTESY:  the life estate which a husband has in the lands of his deceased wife, which by the common law takes effect where he has had issue by her, born alive, and capable of inheriting the lands. Mozley & W. 

CURTILAGE:  A yard, courtyard, or piece of ground, included within the fence surrounding a dwelling house. Burrill. 

CURTLY:  In a curt manner. 

CURTNESS:  The quality of bing curt. 

CURTSY:  Same as Courtesy, an act of respect. 

CURULE:  Of or pertaining to a kind of chair appropriated to Roman magistrates and dignitaries; pertaining to, having, or conferring, the right to sit in the curule chair; hence, official.  Note: The curule chair was usually shaped like a camp stool, and provided with curved legs. It was at first ornamented with ivory, and later sometimes made of ivory and inlaid with gold. Curule dignity right of sitting in the curule chair. 

CURURO:  A Chilian burrowing rodent of the genus Spalacopus.  CURVAL; CURVANT Cur"val (kr"val), Cur"vant (-vant), a. Etym: [L. curvans, p. pr. ] (Her.)  Bowed; bent; curved.  CURVATE; CURVATED Cur"vate (kr"vt), Cur"va*ted (-v-td), a. Etym: [L. curvatus p. p. of curvare to curve, fr. curvus. See Curve.]  Bent in a regular form; curved. 

CURVATION:  The act of bending or crooking. 

CURVATIVE:  Having the margins only a little curved; -- said of leaves. Henslow. 

CURVATURE:  The amount of degree of bending of a mathematical curve, or the tendency at any point to depart from a tangent drawn to the curve at that point. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.), the deviation of a curve from a curcular form. -Absolute curvature. See under Absolute.  -- Angle of curvature (Geom.), one that expresses the amount of curvature of a curve.  -- Chord of curvature. See under Chord.  -- Circle of curvature. See Osculating circle of a curve, under Circle.  -- Curvature of the spine (Med.), an abnormal curving of the spine, especially in a lateral direction.  -- Radius of curvature, the radius of the circle of curvature, or osculatory circle, at any point of a curve. 

CURVE:  Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curve surface. 

CURVE:  A line described according to some low, and having no finite portion of it a straight line. Axis of a curve. See under Axis.  -- Curve of quickest descent. See Brachystochrone.  -- Curve tracing (Math.), the process of determining the shape, location, singular points, and other perculiarities of a curve from its equation.  -- Plane curve (Geom.), a curve such that when a plane passes through three points of the curve, it passes through all the other points of the curve. Any other curve is called a curve of double curvature, or a twisted curve. 

CURVE:  To bend; to crook; as, to curve a line; to curve a pipe; to cause to swerve from a straight course; as, to curve a ball in pitching it. 

CURVE:  To bend or turn gradually from a given direction; as, the road curves to the right. 

CURVEDNESS:  The state of being curved. 

CURVET:  A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legs at once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raises his hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once.  2. A prank; a frolic. 

CURVET:  To cause to curvet. Landor. 

CURVICAUDATE:  Having a curved or crooked tail. 

CURVICOSTATE:  Having bent ribs. 

CURVIDENTATE:  Having curved teeth. 

CURVIFORM:  Having a curved form. 

CURVILINEAD:  An instrument for drawing curved lines.  CURVILINEAL; CURVILINEAR Cur`vi*lin"e*al (-al), Cur`vi*lin"e*ar (-r), a. Etym: [L. curvus bent + E. lineal, linear.]  Consisting of, or bounded by, curved lines; as, a curvilinear figure. 

CURVILINEARITY:  The state of being curvilinear or of being bounded by curved lines. 

CURVILINEARLY:  In a curvilinear manner. 

CURVINERVED:  Having the ribs or the veins of the leaves curved; -- called also curvinervate and curve-veined. 

CURVIROSTRAL:  Having a crooked beak, as the crossbill. 

CURVIROSTRES:  A group of passerine birds, including the creepers and nuthatches. 

CURVISERIAL:  Distributed in a curved line, as leaves along a stem. 

CURVITY:  The state of being curved; a bending in a regular form; crookedness. Holder. 

CURVOGRAPH:  An arcograph. 

CUSCUS:  A soft grass (Pennisetum typhoideum) found in all tropical regions, used as food for men and cattle in Central Africa.  CUSCUS OIL Cuscus oil.  Same as Vetiver oil. 

CUSHAT:  The ringdove or wood pigeon. Scarce with cushat's homely song can vie. Sir W. Scott. 

CUSHEWBIRD:  The galeated curassow. See Curassow. 

CUSHIONET:  A little cushion. 

CUSHIONLESS:  Hot furnished with a cushion. Rows of long, cushionless benches, supplying the place of pews. Hawthorne.  CUSHION TIRE Cushion tire.  A thick solid-rubber tire, as for a bicycle, with a hollow groove running lengthwise on the inside. 

CUSHIONY:  Like a cushion; soft; pliable. A flat and cushiony noce. Dickens. 

CUSHITE:  A descendant of Cush, the son of Ham and grandson of Noah. 

CUSK:  A large, edible, marine fish (Brosmius brosme), allied to the cod, common on the northern coasts of Europe and America; -- called also tusk and torsk. 

CUSKIN:  A kind of drinking cup. [Obs.] 

CUSP:  A triangular protection from the intrados of an arch, or from an inner curve of tracery.  2. (Astrol.)  The beginning or first entrance of any house in the calculations of nativities, etc.  3. (Astron)  The point or horn of the crescent moon or other crescent-shaped luminary.  4. (Math.)  A multiple point of a curve at which two or more branches of the curve have a common tangent.  5. (Anat.)  A prominence or point, especially on the crown of a tooth.  6. (Bot.)  A sharp and rigid point. 

CUSP:  To furnish with a cusp or cusps. 

CUSPATED:  Ending in a point. 

CUSPID:  One of the canine teeth; -- so called from having but one point or cusp on the crown. See Tooth. 

CUSPIDAL:  Ending in a point. 

CUSPIDATE:  To make pointed or sharp.  CUSPIDATE; CUSPIDATED Cus"pi*date (ks"p-dt), Cus"pi*da`ted (-d`td), a. Etym: [L. cuspidatus, p.p. of cuspidare to make pointed, fr. cuspis. See Cusp.]  Having a sharp end, like the point of a spear; terminating in a hard point; as, a cuspidate leaf. 

CUSPIDOR:  Any ornamental vessel used as a spittoon; hence, to avoid the common term, a spittoon of any sort. 

CUSPIS:  A point; a sharp end. 

CUSSEDNESS:  Disposition to willful wrongdoing; malignity; perversity; cantankerousness; obstinacy. [Slang or Colloq., U. S.]  In her opinion it was all pure "cussedness." Mrs. Humphry Ward.  Disputatiousness and perversity (what the Americans call "cussedness"). James Bryce. 

CUSTARD:  A mixture of milk and eggs, sweetened, and baked or boiled. Custard apple (Bot.), a low tree or shrub of tropical America, including several species of Anona (A. squamosa, reticulata, etc.), having a roundish or ovate fruit the size of a small orange, containing a soft, yellowish, edible pulp.  -- Custard coffin, pastry, or crust, which covers or coffins a custard [Obs.] Shak. 

CUSTODE:  See Custodian. 

CUSTODIAL:  Relating to custody or guardianship. 

CUSTODIAN:  One who has care or custody, as of some public building; a keeper or superintendent. 

CUSTODIANSHIP:  Office or duty of a custodian. 

CUSTODIER:  A custodian. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

CUSTOM:  Long-established practice, considered as unwritten law, and resting for authority on long consent; usage. See Usage, and Prescription.  Note: Usage is a fact. Custom is a law. There can be no custom without usage, though there may be usage without custom. Wharton.  4. Familiar aquaintance; familiarity. [Obs.] Age can not wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety. Shak. Custom of merchants, a system or code of customs by which affairs of commerce are regulated.  -- General customs, those which extend over a state or kingdom.  -- Particular customs, those which are limited to a city or district; as, the customs of London.  Syn.  -- Practice; fashion. See Habit, and Usage. 

CUSTOM:  To have a custom. [Obs.] On a bridge he custometh to fight. Spenser. 

CUSTOM:  1 the customary toll,tax, or tribute. Render, therefore, to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; custom to whom custom. Rom. xiii. 7.  2. pl.  Duties or tolls imposed by law on commodities, imported or exported. 

CUSTOM:  To pay the customs of. [Obs.] Marlowe. 

CUSTOMABLENESS:  Quality of being customable; conformity to custom. [Obs.] 

CUSTOMABLY:  Usually. [Obs.] Milton. 

CUSTOMARILY:  In a customary manner; habitually. 

CUSTOMARINESS:  Quality of being customary. 

CUSTOMARY:  Holding or held by custom; as, customary tenants; customary service or estate. 

CUSTOMARY:  A book containing laws and usages, or customs; as, the Customary of the Normans. Cowell. 

CUSTOMHOUSE:  The building where customs and duties are paid, and where vessels are entered or cleared. Customhouse broker, an agent who acts for merchants in the business of entering and clearing goods and vessels. 

CUSTOS:  A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent. [Obs.] Custos rotulorum (r Etym: [LL., keeper of the rolls] (Eng. Law), the principal justice of the peace in a county, who is also keeper of the rolls and records of the sessions of the peace. 

CUSTREL:  An armor-bearer to a knight. [Obs.] 

CUSTREL:  See Costrel. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

CUSTUMARY:  See Customary. [Obs.] 

CUTANEOUS:  Of pertaining to the skin; existing on, or affecting, the skin; as, a cutaneous disease; cutaneous absorption; cutaneous respiration. 

CUTAWAY:  Having a part cut off or away; having the corners rounded or cut away. Cutaway coat, a coat whose skirts are cut away in front so as not to meet at the bottom. 

CUTCH:  See Catechu. 

CUTCH:  See Cultch. 

CUTCHERY:  A hindoo hall of justice. Malcom. 

CUTE:  Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning. [Colloq.] 

CUTENESS:  Acuteness; cunning. [Colloq.] 

CUTGRASS:  A grass with leaves having edges furnished with very minute hooked prickles, which form a cutting edge; one or more species of Leersia. 

CUTICLE:  The scarfskin or epidermis. See Skin.  2. (Bot.)  The outermost skin or pellicle of a plant, found especially in leaves and young stems.  3. A thin skin formed on the surface of a liquid. 

CUTICULAR:  Pertaining to the cuticle, or external coat of the skin; epidermal. 

CUTIN:  The substance which, added to the material of a cell wall, makes it waterproof, as in cork. 

CUTINIZATION:  The conversion of cell walls into a material which repels water, as in cork. 

CUTINIZE:  To change into cutin. 

CUTIS:  See Dermis. 

CUTLASS:  A short, heavy, curving sword, used in the navy. See Curtal ax. Cutlass fish, (Zoöl.), a peculiar, long, thin, marine fish (Trichirus lepturus) of the southern United States and West Indies; -- called also saber fish, silver eel, and, improperly, swordfish. 

CUTLER:  One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cutting instruments. 

CUTLET:  A piece of meat, especially of veal or mutton, cut for broiling. 

CUTLING:  The art of making edged tools or cutlery. [Obs.] Milton.  CUT-OFF Cut"-off` (kt"f`; 115), n.  1. That which cuts off or shortens, as a nearer passage or road.  2. (Mach.) (a) The valve gearing or mechanism by which steam is cut off from entering the cylinder of a steam engine after a definite point in a stroke, so as to allow the remainder of the stroke to be made by the expansive force of the steam already let in. See Expansion gear, under Expansion. (b) Any device for stopping or changing a current, as of grain or water in a spout. 

CUTOSE:  A variety of cellulose, occuring as a fine transparent membrane covering the aerial organs of plants, and forming an essential ingredient of cork; by oxidation it passes to suberic acid.  CUT-OUT Cut"-out` (kt"out`), n. (a) (Telegraphy) A species of switch for changing the current from one circuit to another, or for shortening a circuit. (b) (Elec.) A divice for breaking or separating a portion of circuit. 

CUTPURSE:  One who cuts purses for the sake of stealing them or their contents (an act common when men wore purses fastened by a string to their girdles); one who steals from the person; a pickpocket To have an open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is necessary for a cutpurse. Shak. 

CUTTHROAT:  One who cuts throats; a murderer; an assassin. 

CUTTHROAT:  Murderous; cruel; barbarous. 

CUTTINGLY:  In a cutting manner. 

CUTTLE:  A knife. [Obs.] Bale.  CUTTLE; CUTTLEFISH Cut"tle (kt"t'l), Cut"tle*fish` (-fsh`), n. Etym: [OE. codule, AS. cudele; akin to G. kuttelfish; cf. G. k, D. keutel, dirt from the guts, G. kuttel bowels, entrails. AS. cwip womb, Gith. qipus belly, womb.]  1. (Zoöl.)  A cephalopod of the genus Sepia, having an internal shell, large eyes, and ten arms furnished with denticulated suckers, by means of which it secures its prey. The name is sometimes applied to dibranchiate cephalopods generally.  Note: It has an ink bag, opening into the siphon, from which, when pursued, it throws out a dark liquid that clouds the water, enabling it to escape observation.  2. A foul-mouthed fellow. "An you play the saucy cuttle me." Shak.  CUTTLE BONE Cut"tle bone` (bn`).  The shell or bone of cuttlefishes, used for various purposes, as for making polishing powder, etc.  CUTTOO PLATE Cut*too" plate` (kt-t" plt`).  A hood over the end of a wagon wheel hub to keep dirt away from the axle. 

CUTTY:  Short; as, a cutty knife; a cutty sark. [Scot.] 

CUTWAL:  The chief police officer of a large city. [East Indies] 

CUTWATER:  A sea bird of the Atlantic (Rhynchops nigra); -- called also black skimmer, scissorsbill, and razorbill. See Skimmer. 

CUTWORK:  An ancient term for embroidery, esp. applied to the earliest form of lace, or to that early embroidery on linen and the like, from which the manufacture of lace was developed. 

CUTWORM:  A caterpillar which at night eats off young plants of cabbage, corn, etc., usually at the ground. Some kinds ascend fruit trees and eat off the flower buds. During the day, they conceal themselves in the earth. The common cutworms are the larvæ of various species of Agrotis and related genera of noctuid moths. 

CUVETTE:  A cunette. 3. (Spectrometry) (Analytical chemistry)  A small vessel with at least two flat and transparent sides, used to hold a liquid sample to be analysed in the light path of a spectrometer.  Note: The shape and materials vary; for ultraviolet spectrometry, quartz is typically used. For visible-light spectrometry, plastic cuvettes may be employed. Occasionally, small vessels used for other laboratory purposes are called cuvettes. cuvette holder, (Spectrometry) A small device used to hold one or more cuvettes[3], shaped specifically to fit in the sample chamber of a particular type of spectrometer, with openings to permit light to pass through the holder and the cuvettes, and designed so as to hold the cuvette accurately and reproducibly within the light path of the spectrometer. For cuvettes with a square horizontal cross-section, the compartments will have a corresponding square cross-section, usu. slightly larger than the cuvette. 

CYAMELIDE:  A white amorphous substance, regarded as a polymeric modification of isocyanic acid. 

CYAMELLONE:  A complex derivative of cyanogen, regarded as an acid, and known chiefly in its salts; -- called also hydromellonic acid. 

CYANATE:  A salt of cyanic acid. Ammonium cyanate (Chem.), a remarkable white crystalline substance, NH4.O.CN, which passes, on standing, to the organic compound, urea, CO.(NH)2. 

CYANAURATE:  See Aurocyanide. 

CYANEAN:  Having an azure color. Pennant. 

CYANIDE:  A compound formed by the union of cyanogen with an element or radical. 

CYANIN:  The blue coloring matter of flowers; -- called also anthokyan and anthocyanin. 

CYANINE:  One of a series of artificial blue or red dyes obtained from quinoline and lepidine and used in calico printing. 

CYANITE:  A mineral occuring in thin-bladed crystals and crystalline aggregates, of a sky-blue color. It is a silicate of aluminium. [Written also kyanite.] 

CYANOGEN:  A colorless, inflammable, poisonous gas, C2N2, with a peach- blossom odor, so called from its tendency to form blue compounds; obtained by heating ammonium oxalate, mercuric cyanide, etc. It is obtained in combination, forming an alkaline cyanide when nitrogen or a nitrogenous compound is strongly ignited with carbon and soda or potash. It conducts itself like a member of the halogen group of elements, and shows a tendency to form complex compounds. The name is also applied to the univalent radical, CN (the half molecule of cyanogen proper), which was one of the first compound radicals recognized.  Note: Cyanogen is found in the commercial substances, potassium cyanide, or prussiate of potash, yellow prussiate of potash, Prussian blue, Turnbull's blue, prussic acid, etc. 

CYANOMETER:  An instrument for measuring degress of blueness. 

CYANOPATHY:  A disease in which the body is colored blue in its surface, arising usually from a malformation of the heart, which causes an imperfect arterialization of the blood; blue jaundice. 

CYANOPHYLL:  A blue coloring matter supposed by some to be one of the component parts ofchlorophyll. 

CYANOSED:  Rendered blue, as the surface of the body, from cyanosis or deficient a 

CYANOSIS:  A condition in which, from insufficient aCyanopathy. 

CYANOSITE:  Native sulphate of copper. Cf. Blue vitriol, under Blue. 

CYANOTIC:  Relating to cyanosis; affected with cyanosis; as, a cyanotic patient; having the hue caused by cyanosis; as, a cyanitic skin. 

CYANOTYPE:  A photographic picture obtained by the use of a cyanide. 

CYANURATE:  A salt of cyanuric acid. 

CYANURET:  A cyanide. [Obs.] 

CYANURIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, cyanic and uric acids.  CYANURIC ACID Cyanuric acid (Chem.),  an organic acid, C3O3N3H3, first obtained by heating uric acid or urea, and called pyrouric acid; afterwards obtained from isocyanic acid. It is a white crystalline substance, odorless and almost tasteless; -- called also tricarbimide. 

CYATHIFORM:  In the form of a cup, a little widened at the top. 

CYATHOLITH:  A kind of coccolith, which in shape resembles a minute cup widened at the top, and varies in size from 

CYATHOPHYLLOID:  Like, or pertaining to, the family Cyathophyllidæ. 

CYATHOPHYLLOID:  A fossil coral of the family Cyathophyllidæ; sometimes extended to fossil corals of other related families belonging to the group Rugosa; -- also called cup corals. Thay are found in paleozoic rocks. 

CYCAD:  Any plant of the natural order Cycadeceæ, as the sago palm, etc. 

CYCADACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants like the palms, but having exogenous wood. The sago palm is an example. 

CYCAS:  A genus of trees, intermediate in character between the palms and the pines. The pith of the trunk of some species furnishes a valuable kind of sago. 

CYCLAMEN:  A genus of plants of the Primrose family, having depressed rounded corms, and pretty nodding flowers with the petals so reflexed as to point upwards, whence it is called rabbit's ears. It is also called sow bread, because hogs are said to eat the corms. 

CYCLAMIN:  A white amorphous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from the corm of Cyclamen Europæum. 

CYCLAS:  A long gown or surcoat (cut off in front), worn in the Middle Ages. It was sometimes embroidered or interwoven with gold. Also, a rich stuff from which the gown was made. 

CYCLE:  One entire round in a circle or a spire; as, a cycle or set of leaves. Gray.  7. A bicycle or tricycle, or other light velocipede. Calippic cycle, a period of 76 years, or four Metonic cycles; -- so called from Calippus, who proposed it as an improvement on the Metonic cycle.  -- Cycle of eclipses, a priod of about 6,586 days, the time of revolution of the moon's node; -- called Saros by the Chaldeans.  -- Cycle of indiction, a period of 15 years, employed in Roman and ecclesiastical chronology, not founded on any astronomical period, but having reference to certain judicial acts which took place at stated epochs under the Greek emperors.  -- Cycle of the moon, or Metonic cycle, a period of 19 years, after the lapse of which the new and full moon returns to the same day of the year; -- so called from Meton, who first proposed it.  -- Cycle of the sun, Solar cycle, a period of 28 years, at the end of which time the days of the month return to the same days of the week. The dominical or Sunday letter follows the same order; hence the solar cycle is also called the cycle of the Sunday letter. In the Gregorian calendar the solar cycle is in general interrupted at the end of the century. 

CYCLE:  Of or pertaining to a cycle or circle; moving in cycles; as, cyclical time. Coleridge. Cyclic chorus, the chorus which performed the songs and dances of the dithyrambic odes at Athens, dancing round the altar of Bacchus in a circle.  -- Cyclic poets, certain epic poets who followed Homer, and wrote merely on the Trojan war and its heroes; -- so called because keeping within the circle of a singe subject. Also, any series or coterie of poets writing on one subject. Milman. 

CYCLIDE:  A surface of the fourth degree, having certain special relations to spherical surfaces. The tore or anchor ring is one of the cyclides. 

CYCLING:  The act, art, or practice, of riding a cycle, esp. a bicycle or tricycle. 

CYCLIST:  A cycler.  CYCLO- Cy"clo- (s"kl-). Etym: [Gr.  A combining form meaning circular, of a circle or wheel. 

CYCLOBRANCHIATE:  Having the gills around the margin of the body, as certain limpets. 

CYCLOGANOID:  Of or pertaining to the Cycloganoidei. 

CYCLOGANOID:  One of the Cycloganoidei. 

CYCLOGANOIDEI:  An order of ganoid fishes, having cycloid scales. The bowfin (Amia calva) is a living example. 

CYCLOGRAPH:  See Arcograph. 

CYCLOID:  A curve generated by a point in the plane of a circle when the circle is rolled along a straight line, keeping always in the same plane.  Note: The common cycloid is the curve described when the generating point (p) is on the circumference of the generating circle; the curtate cycloid, when that point lies without the circumference; the prolate or inflected cycloid, when the generating point (p) lies within that circumference. 

CYCLOID:  Of or pertaining to the Cycloidei. Cycloid scale (Zoöl.), a fish scale which is thin and shows concentric lines of growth, without serrations on the margin. 

CYCLOID:  One of the Cycloidei. 

CYCLOIDAL:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a cycloid; as, the cycloidal space is the space contained between a cycloid and its base. Cycloidal engine. See Geometric lathe. 

CYCLOIDEI:  An order of fishes, formerly proposed by Agassiz, for those with thin, smooth scales, destitute of marginal spines, as the herring and salmon. The group is now regarded as artificial. 

CYCLOIDIAN:  Same as 2d and 3d Cycloid. 

CYCLOMETER:  A contrivance for recording the revolutions of a wheel, as of a bicycle. 

CYCLOMETRY:  The art of measuring circles. 

CYCLONE:  A violent storm, often of vast extent, characterized by high winds rotating about a calm center of low atmospheric pressure. This center moves onward, often with a velocity of twenty or thirty miles an hour.  Note: The atmospheric disturbance usually accompanying a cyclone, marked by an onward moving area of high pressure, is called an anticyclone.  CYCLONE CELLAR; CYCLONE PIT Cyclone cellar or pit .  A cellar or excavation used for refuge from a cyclone, or tornado. [Middle U. S.] 

CYCLONIC:  Pertaining to a cyclone. 

CYCLONOSCOPE:  An apparatus to assist in locating the center of a cyclone. 

CYCLOP:  See Note under Cyclops, 1. 

CYCLOPEAN:  Pertaining to the Cyclops; characteristic of the Cyclops; huge; gigantic; vast and rough; massive; as, Cyclopean labors; Cyclopean architecture.  CYCLOPEDIA; CYCLOPAEDIA Cy`clo*pe"di*a Cy`clo*pae"di*a (s`kl-p"d-), n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. ky`klos circle + paidei`a the bringing up of a child, education, erudition, fr. paidey`ein to bring up a child. See Cycle, and cf. Encyclopedia, Pedagogue.]  The circle or compass of the arts and sciences (originally, of the seven so-called liberal arts and sciences); circle of human knowledge. Hence, a work containing, in alphabetical order, information in all departments of knowledge, or on a particular department or branch; as, a cyclopedia of the physical sciences, or of mechanics. See Encyclopedia. 

CYCLOPEDIC:  Belonging to the circle of the sciences, or to a cyclopedia; of the nature of a cyclopedia; hence, of great range, extent, or amount; as, a man of cyclopedic knowledge. 

CYCLOPEDIST:  A maker of, or writer for, a cyclopedia. 

CYCLOPIC:  Pertaining to the Cyclops; Cyclopean. 

CYCLOPS:  One of a race of giants, sons of Neptune and Amphitrite, having but one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead. They were fabled to inhabit Sicily, and to assist in the workshops of Vulcan, under Mt. Etna.  Note: Pope, in his translation of the "Odyssey," uniformly spells this word Cyclop, when used in the singular.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of minute Entomostraca, found both in fresh and salt water. See Copepoda.  3. A portable forge, used by tinkers, etc. 

CYCLORAMA:  A pictorial view which is extended circularly, so that the spectator is surrounded by the objects represented as by things in nature. The realistic effect is increased by putting, in the space between the spectator and the picture, things adapted to the scene represented, and in some places only parts of these objects, the completion of them being carried out pictorially. 

CYCLOSCOPE:  A machine for measuring at any moment velocity of rotation, as of a wheel of a steam engine. Knight. 

CYCLOSIS:  The circulation or movement of protoplasmic granules within a living vegetable cell. 

CYCLOSTOMATA:  

CYCLOSTOME:  A division of Bryozoa, in which the cells have circular apertures.  CYCLOSTOME; CYCLOSTOMOUS Cy"clo*stome (s"kl-stm), Cy*clos"to*mous (s-kls"t-ms), a. (Zoöl.)  Pertaining to the Cyclostomi. 

CYCLOSTOMI:  A glass of fishes having a suckerlike mouth, without jaws, as the lamprey; the Marsipobranchii. 

CYCLOSTYLAR:  Relating to a structure composed of a circular range of columns, without a core or building within. Weale. 

CYCLOSTYLE:  A contrivance for producing manifold copies of writing or drawing. The writing or drawing is done with a style carrying a small wheel at the end which makes minute punctures in the paper, thus converting it into a stencil. Copies are transferred with an inked roller. 

CYDER:  See Cider. [Archaic] 

CYDONIN:  A peculiar mucilaginous substance extracted from the seeds of the quince (Cydonia vulgaris), and regarded as a variety of amylose. 

CYGNET:  A young swan. Shak. 

CYGNUS:  A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, or following, Lyra; the Swan. 

CYLINDRACEOUS:  Cylindrical, or approaching a cylindrical form.  CYLINDRIC; CYLINDRICAL Cy*lin"dric (s-ln"drk), Cy*lin"dric*al (-dr-kal), a. Etym: [Gr.cylindrique.]  Having the form of a cylinder, or of a section of its convex surface; partaking of the properties of the cylinder. Cylindrical lens, a lens having one, or more than one, cylindrical surface.  -- Cylindric, or Cylindrical, surface (Geom.), a surface described by a straight line that moves according to any law, but so as to be constantly parallel to a given line.  -- Cylindrical vault. (Arch.) See under Vault, n. 

CYLINDRICALLY:  In the manner or shape of a cylinder; so as to be cylindrical. 

CYLINDRICITY:  The quality or condition of being cylindrical. 

CYLINDRIFORM:  Having the form of a cylinder. 

CYLINDROID:  A certain surface of the third degree, described by a moving straight line; -- used to illustrate the motions of a rigid body and also the forces acting on the body. 

CYLINDROMETRIC:  Belonging to a scale used in measuring cylinders. 

CYMA:  A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which is wavelike in form.  2. (Bot.)  A cyme. See Cyme. Cyma recta, or Cyma, a cyma, hollow in its upper part and swelling below.  -- Cyma reversa, or Ogee, a cyma swelling out on the upper part and hollow below. 

CYMAR:  A sight covering; a scarf. See Simar. Her body shaded with a light cymar. Dryden. 

CYMATIUM:  A capping or crowning molding in classic architecture. 

CYMBALIST:  A performer upon cymbals. 

CYMBIFORM:  Shaped like a boat; (Bot.) elongated and having the upper surface decidedly concave, as the glumes of many grasses. 

CYMBIUM:  A genus of marine univalve shells; the gondola. 

CYME:  A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal or determinate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of the opening of the blossoms. 

CYMENE:  A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol, camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen. 

CYMENOL:  See Carvacrol. 

CYMIDINE:  A liquid organic base, C10H13.NH2, derived from cymene. 

CYMIFEROUS:  Producing cymes.  CYMLING; CYMBLING Cym"ling, Cymb"ling (sm"lng), n.  A scalloped or "pattypan" variety of summer squash. 

CYMOGENE:  A highly volatile liquid, condensed by cold and pressure from the first products of the distillation of petroleum; -- used for producing low temperatures. 

CYMOGRAPH:  To trace or copy with a cymograph. 

CYMOID:  Having the form of a cyme. 

CYMOMETER:  An instrument for exhibiting and measuring wave motion; specif. (Elec.),  an instrument for determining the frequency of electic wave oscillations, esp. in connection with wireless telegraphy. 

CYMOPHANE:  See Chrysoberyl. 

CYMOPHANOUS:  Having a wavy, floating light; opalescent; chatoyant. 

CYMOSCOPE:  Any device for detecting the presence of electric waves. The influence of electric waves on the resistance of a particular kind of electric circuit, on the magnetization of steel, on the polarization of an electrolytic cell, or on the electric condition of a vacuum has been applied in the various cymoscopes.  CYMOSE; CYMOUS Cy"mose (s"ms; 277), Cy"mous (s"ms), a. Etym: [L. cymosus full of shoots: cf. FF. cymeux. See Cyme.] (Bot.)  Having the nature of a cyme, or derived from a cyme; bearing, or pertaining to, a cyme or cymes. 

CYMRIC:  Welsh.  -- n.  The Welsh language. [Written also Kymric.] 

CYMRY:  A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by themselves . [Written also Cymri, Cwmry, Kymry, etc.] 

CYMULE:  A small cyme, or one of very few flowers. 

CYNANCHE:  Any disease of the tonsils, throat, or windpipe, attended with inflammation, swelling, and difficulty of breathing and swallowing. 

CYNANTHROPY:  A kind of madness in which men fancy themselves changed into dogs, and imitate the voice and habits of that animal. 

CYNARCTOMACHY:  Bear baiting with a dog. Hudibras. 

CYNARRHODIUM:  A fruit like that of the rose, consisting of a cup formed of the calyx tube and receptacle, and containing achenes. 

CYNEGETICS:  The art of hunting with dogs.  CYNIC; CYNICAL Cyn"ic (sn"k), Cyn"ic*al (--kal), a. Etym: [L. cynicus of the sect of Cynics, fr. Gr. Hound.]  1. Having the qualities of a surly dog; snarling; captious; currish. I hope it is no very cynical asperity not to confess obligations where no benefit has been received. Johnson.  2. Pertaining to the Dog Star; as, the cynic, or Sothic, year; cynic cycle.  3. Belonging to the sect of philosophers called cynics; having the qualities of a cynic; pertaining to, or resembling, the doctrines of the cynics.  4. Given to sneering at rectitude and the conduct of life by moral principles; disbelieving in the reality of any human purposes which are not suggested or directed by self-interest or self-indulgence; as, a cynical man who scoffs at pretensions of integrity; characterized by such opinions; as, cynical views of human nature.  Note: In prose, cynical is used rather than cynic, in the senses 1 and 4. Cynic spasm (Med.), a convulsive contraction of the muscles of one side of the face, producing a sort of grin, suggesting certain movements in the upper lip of a dog. 

CYNICALLY:  In a cynical manner. 

CYNICALNESS:  The quality of being cynical. 

CYNICISM:  The doctrine of the Cynics; the quality of being cynical; the mental state, opnions, or conduct, of a cynic; morose and contemptuous views and opinions. 

CYNOIDEA:  A division of Carnivora, including the dogs, wolves, and foxes. 

CYNOREXIA:  A voracious appetite, like that of a starved dog. 

CYNOSURAL:  Of or pertaining to a cynosure. 

CYON:  See Cion, and Scion. 

CYPERACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large family of plants of which the sedge is the type. 

CYPERUS:  A large genus of plants belonging to the Sedge family, and including the species called galingale, several bulrushes, and the Egyptian papyrus. 

CYPHER:  See Cipher. 

CYPHONAUTES:  The free-swimming, bivalve larva of certain Bryozoa. 

CYPHONISM:  A punishment sometimes used by the ancients, consisting in the besmearing of the criminal with honey, and exposing him to insects. It is still in use among some Oriental nations. 

CYPRAEA:  A genus of mollusks, including the cowries. See Cowrie. 

CYPRES:  A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform as nearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law. Mozley & W. 

CYPRESS:  A coniferous tree of the genus Cupressus. The species are mostly evergreen, and have wood remarkable for its durability.  Note: Among the trees called cypress are the common Oriental cypress, Cupressus sempervirens, the evergreen American cypress, C. thyoides (now called Chamaecyparis sphaeroidea), and the deciduous American cypress, Taxodium distichum. As having anciently been used at funerals, and to adorn tombs, the Oriental species is an emblem of mourning and sadness. Cypress vine (Bot.), a climbing plant with red or white flowers (Ipotoea Quamoclit, formerly Quamoclit vulgaris). 

CYPRINE:  Of or pertaining to the cypress. 

CYPRINE:  Cyprinoid. 

CYPRINODONT:  One of the Cyprinodontidae, a family of fishes including the killifishes or minnows. See Minnow. 

CYPRINOID:  Like the carp (Cyprinus).  -- n.  One of the Cyprinidae, or Carp family, as the goldfish, barbel, etc. 

CYPRIOT:  A native or inhabitant of Cyprus. 

CYPRIPEDIUM:  A genus of orchidaceous plants including the lady's slipper. 

CYPRIS:  A genus of small, bivalve, freshwater Crustacea, belonging to the Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus. 

CYPRUS:  A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to, crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common, and used for mourning. [Obs.] Lawn as white as driven snow, Cyprus black as e'er was crow. Shak. 

CYPRUSLAWN:  Same as Cyprus. Milton. 

CYPSELA:  A one-seeded, one-called, indehiscent fruit; an achene with the calyx tube adherent. 

CYPSELIFORM:  Like or belonging to the swifts (Cypselidæ.) 

CYRENAIC:  Pertaining to Cyrenaica, an ancient country of northern Africa, and to Cyrene, its principal city; also, to a school of philosophy founded by Aristippus, a native of Cyrene.  -- n.  A native of Cyrenaica; also, a disciple of the school of Aristippus. See Cyrenian, n. 

CYRENIAN:  Pertaining to Cyrene, in Africa; Cyrenaic. 

CYRIOLOGIC:  Relating to capital letters. 

CYRTOSTYLE:  A circular projecting portion. 

CYST:  One of the bladders or air vessels of certain algæ, as of the great kelp of the Pacific, and common rockweeds (Fuci) of our shores. D. C. Eaton.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) A small capsule or sac of the kind in which many immature entozoans exit in the tissues of living animals; also, a similar form in Rotifera, etc. (b) A form assumed by Protozoa inwhich they become saclike and quiescent. It generally precedes the production of germs. See Encystment. 

CYSTED:  Inclosed in a cyst. 

CYSTIC:  Pertaining to, or contained in, a cyst; esp., pertaining to, or contained in, either the urinary bladder or the gall bladder. Cystic duct, the duct from the gall bladder which unites with the hepatic to form the common bile duct.  -- Cystic worm (Zoöl.), a larval tape worm, as the cysticercus and echinococcus.  CYSTICERCE; CYSTICERCUS Cys"ti*cerce (ss"t-srs), Cys`ti*cer"cus (-sr"ks), n. Etym: [NL. cysticercus, fr. Gr. cysticerque.] (Zoöl.)  The larval form of a tapeworm, having the head and neck of a tapeworm attached to a saclike body filled with fluid; -- called also bladder worm, hydatid, and measle (as, pork measle).  Note: These larvae live in the tissues of various living animals, and, when swallowed by a suitable carnivorous animal, develop into adult tapeworms in the intestine. See Measles, 4, Tapeworm. 

CYSTICULE:  An appendage of the vestibular ear sac of fishes. Owen. 

CYSTID:  One of the Cystidea. 

CYSTIDEA:  An order of Crinoidea, mostly fossils of the Paleozoic rocks. They were usually roundish or egg-shaped, and often unsymmetrical; some were sessile, others had short stems. 

CYSTIDEAN:  One of the Cystidea. 

CYSTINE:  A white crystalline substance, C3H7NSO2, containing sulphur, occuring as a constituent of certain rare urinary calculi, and occasionally found as a sediment in urine. 

CYSTIS:  A cyst. See Cyst. 

CYSTITIS:  Inflammation of the bladder. 

CYSTOCARP:  A minute vesicle in a red seaweed, which contains the reproductive spores. 

CYSTOCELE:  Hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes; vesical hernia.  CYSTOID; CYSTOIDEAN Cys"toid, Cys*toid"e*an, n.  Same as Cystidean. 

CYSTOIDEA:  Same as Cystidea. 

CYSTOLITH:  A concretion of mineral matter within a leaf or other part of a plant.  2. (Med.)  A urinary calculus. 

CYSTOLITHIC:  Relating to stone in the bladder. 

CYSTOPLAST:  A nucleated cell having an envelope or cell wall, as a red blood corpuscle or an epithelial cell; a cell concerned in growth. 

CYSTOSE:  Containing, or resembling, a cyst or cysts; cystic; bladdery. 

CYSTOTOME:  A knife or instrument used in cystotomy. 

CYSTOTOMY:  The act or practice of opening cysts; esp., the operation of cutting into the bladder, as for the extraction of a calculus. 

CYTHEREAN:  Pertaining to the goddess Venus. 

CYTOBLAST:  The nucleus of a cell; the germinal or active spot of a cellule, through or in which cell development takes place. 

CYTOBLASTEMA:  See Protoplasm. 

CYTOCOCCUS:  The nucleus of the cytula or parent cell. Hæckel. 

CYTODE:  A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest form of independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei are present. 

CYTOGENESIS:  Development of cells in animal and vegetable organisms. See Gemmation, Budding, Karyokinesis; also Cell development, under Cell.  CYTOGENIC; CYTOGENETIC Cy`to*gen"ic (s`t-jn"k), Cy`to*ge*net"ic (-j-nt"k), a. (Biol.)  Of or pertaining to cytogenesis or cell development. 

CYTOGENOUS:  Producing cells; -- applied esp. to lymphatic, or adenoid, tissue. 

CYTOGENY:  Cell production or development; cytogenesis. 

CYTOID:  Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle, etc. 

CYTOPLASM:  The substance of the body of a cell, as distinguished from the karyoplasma, or substance of the nucleus.  -- Cy`to*plas"mic (-pl, a. 

CYTULA:  The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development of which the child or other organism is formed. Hæckel. 

CZAR:  A king; a chief; the title of the emperor of Russia. [Written also tzar.] 

CZAREVNA:  The title of the wife of the czarowitz. 

CZARINA:  The title of the empress of Russia. 

CZARINIAN:  Of or pertaining to the czar or the czarina; czarish. 

CZARISH:  Of or pertaining to the czar. 

CZAROWITZ:  The title of the eldest son of the czar of Russia. 

CZECHIC:  Of or pertaining to the Czechs. "One Czechic realm." The Nation. 

CZECHS:  The most westerly branch of the great Slavic family of nations, numbering now more than 6,000,000, and found principally in Bohemia and Moravia. 

D:  The nominal of the second tone in the model major scale (that in C), or of the fourth tone in the relative minor scale of C (that in A minor), or of the key tone in the relative minor of F.  3. As a numeral D stands for 500. in this use it is not the initial of any word, or even strictly a letter, but one half of the sign 

DAB:  A skillful hand; a dabster; an expert. [Colloq.] One excels at a plan or the titlepage, another works away at the body of the book, and the therd is a dab at an index. Goldsmith. 

DAB:  A name given to several species of Pleuronectes . TheAmerican rough dab is Hippoglossoides platessoides. 

DABB:  A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb. 

DABBER:  That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used by printers, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plates with ink. 

DABBLE:  To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; to moisten; to wet. "Bright hair dabbled in blood." Shak. 

DABBLINGLY:  In a dabbling manner. 

DABCHICK:  A small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes, remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick, dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver, hell-diver, and pied-billed grebe. 

DABOIA:  A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica). 

DABSTER:  One who is skilled; a master of his business; a proficient; an adept. [Colloq.]  Note: Sometimes improperly used for dabbler; as, "I am but a dabster with gentle art." 

DACAPO:  From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, the first strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain so repeated. 

DACE:  A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus or Leuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare.  Note: In America the name is given to several related fishes of the genera Squalius, Minnilus, etc. The black-nosed dace is Rhinichthys atronasus the horned dace is Semotilus corporalis. For red dace, see Redfin. 

DACHSHUND:  One of a breed of small dogs with short crooked legs, and long body; -- called also badger dog. There are two kinds, the rough- haired and the smooth-haired. 

DACIAN:  Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians.  -- n.  A native of ancient Dacia. 

DACOIT:  One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs. 

DACOITY:  The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed by dacoits. 

DACOTAHS:  Same as Dacotas. Longfellow. 

DACTYL:  A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followed by two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L. tëgmînê, E. mer"ciful; -- so called from the similarity of its arrangement to that of the joints of a finger. [Written also dactyle.]  2. (Zoöl.) (a) A finger or toe; a digit. (b) The claw or terminal joint of a leg of an insect or crustacean. 

DACTYLAR:  Of or pertaining to a finger or toe, or to the claw of an insect crustacean. 

DACTYLET:  A dactyl. [Obs.] 

DACTYLIC:  Pertaining to, consisting chiefly or wholly of, dactyls; as, dactylic verses. 

DACTYLIC:  Dactylic meters. 

DACTYLIOGLYPHY:  The art or process of gem engraving. 

DACTYLIOMANCY:  Divination by means of finger rings. 

DACTYLIST:  A writer of dactylic verse. 

DACTYLITIS:  An inflammatory affection of the fingers. Gross. 

DACTYLOLOGY:  The art of communicating ideas by certain movements and positions of the fingers; -- a method of conversing practiced by the deaf and dumb.  Note: There are two different manual alphabets, the one hand alphabet (which was perfected by Abbé de l'Epée, who died in 1789), and the two hand alphabet. The latter was probably based on the manual alphabet published by George Dalgarus of Aberdeen, in 1680. See Illustration in Appendix. 

DACTYLOMANCY:  Dactylio mancy. [R.] Am. Cyc. 

DACTYLONOMY:  The art of numbering or counting by the fingers. 

DACTYLOPTEROUS:  Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially or entirely free, as in the gurnards. 

DACTYLOTHECA:  The scaly covering of the toes, as in birds. 

DACTYLOZOOID:  A kind of zooid of Siphonophora which has an elongated or even vermiform body, with one tentacle, but no mouth. See Siphonophora. 

DAD:  Father; -- a word sometimes used by children. I was never so bethumped withwords, Since I first called my brother's father dad. Shak. 

DADDLE:  To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man; hence, to do anything slowly or feebly. 

DADDOCK:  The rotten body of a tree. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

DADDY:  Diminutive of Dad. Dryden.  DADDY LONGLEGS Dad"dy long"legs`.  1. (Zoöl.)  An arachnidan of the genus Phalangium, and allied genera, having a small body and four pairs of long legs; -- called also harvestman, carter, and grandfather longlegs.  2. (Zoöl.)  A name applied to many species of dipterous insects of the genus Tipula, and allied genera, with slender bodies, and very long, slender legs; the crane fly; -- called also father longlegs. 

DADE:  To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child while he toddles. [Obs.] Little children when they learn to go By painful mothers daded to and fro. Drayton. 

DADE:  To walk unsteadily, as a child in leading strings, or just learning to walk; to move slowly. [Obs.] No sooner taught to dade, but from their mother trip. Drayton. 

DAEDALOUS:  Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.  DAEMON; DAEMONIC Dæ"mon, n., Dæ*mon"ic (, a.  See Demon, Demonic. 

DAFF:  To cast aside; to put off; to doff. [Obs.] Canst thou so daff me Thou hast killed my child. Shak. 

DAFF:  A stupid, blockish fellow; a numskull. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DAFF:  To act foolishly; to be foolish or sportive; to toy. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

DAFF:  To daunt. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

DAFTNESS:  The quality of being daft. 

DAG:  The unbrunched antler of a young deer. 

DAG:  A misty shower; dew. [Obs.] 

DAG:  A loose end; a dangling shred. Daglocks, clotted locks hanging in dags or jags at a sheep's tail. Wedgwood. 

DAG:  To be misty; to drizzle. [Prov. Eng.] 

DAGGER:  A mark of reference in the form of a dagger [|]. It is the second in order when more than one reference occurs on a page; -- called also obelisk. Dagger moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus Apatalea. The larvæ are often destructive to the foliage of fruit trees, etc.  -- Dagger of lath, the wooden weapon given to the Vice in the old Moralities. Shak.  -- Double dagger, a mark of reference [||] which comes next in order after the dagger.  -- To look, or speak, daggers, to look or speak fiercely or reproachfully. 

DAGGER:  To pierce with a dagger; to stab. [Obs.] 

DAGGER:  A timber placed diagonally in a ship's frame. Knight. 

DAGGES:  An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introduced about a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

DAGGLE:  To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; to moisten. The warrior's very plume, I say, Was daggled by the dashing spray. Sir W. Scott. 

DAGGLE:  To run, go, or trail one's self through water, mud, or slush; to draggle. Nor, like a puppy [have I] daggled through the town. Pope.  DAGGLE-TAIL; DAGGLE-TAILED Dag"gle-tail`, Dag"gle-tailed`, a.  Having the lower ends of garments defiled by trailing in mire or filth; draggle-tailed.  DAGGLE-TAIL Dag"gle-tail`, n.  A slovenly woman; a slattern; a draggle-tail. 

DAGLOCK:  A dirty or clotted lock of wool on a sheep; a taglock. 

DAGO:  A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension, Portuguese or Italian) descent. [U. S.] 

DAGOBA:  A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or some Buddhist saint. [East Indies] 

DAGON:  The national god of the Philistines, represented with the face and hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish. W. Smith. This day a solemn feast the people hold To Dagon, their sea idol. Milton. They brought it into the house of Dagon. 1 Sam. v. 2. 

DAGON:  A slip or piece. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DAGSWAIN:  Acoarse woolen fabric made of daglocks, or the refuse of wool. "Under coverlets made of dagswain." Holinshed.  DAG-TAILED Dag"-tailed`, a. Etym: [Dag a loose end + tail.]  Daggle-tailed; having the tail clogged with daglocks. "Dag- tailed sheep." Bp. Hall.  DAGUERREAN; DAGUERREIAN Da*guer"re*an, Da*guerre"i*an, a.  Pertaining to Daguerre, or to his invention of the daguerreotype. 

DAGUERREOTYPE:  One who takes daguerreotypes. 

DAGUERREOTYPY:  The art or process of producing pictures by method of Daguerre. 

DAHABEAH:  A nile boat 

DAHLIA:  A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of the order Compositæ; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerous varieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differ in color. 

DAHLIN:  A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called also inulin. See Inulin. 

DAHOON:  An evergreen shrub or small tree (Ilex cassine) of the southern United States, bearing red drupes and having soft, white, close- grained wood; -- called also dahoon holly. 

DAILINESS:  Daily occurence. [R.] 

DAILY:  Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as, daily labor; a daily bulletin. Give us this day our daily bread. Matt. vi. 11. Bunyan has told us . . . that in New England his dream was the daily subject of the conversation of thousands. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Daily, Diurnal. Daily is Anglo-Saxon, and diurnal is Latin. The former is used in reference to the ordinary concerns of life; as, daily wants, daily cares, daily employments. The latter is appropriated chiefly by astronomers to what belongs to the astronomical day; as, the diurnal revolution of the earth. Man hath his daily work of body or mind Appointed, which declares his dignity, And the regard of Heaven on all his ways. Milton. Half yet remains unsung, but narrower bound Within the visible diurnal sphere. Milton. 

DAILY:  A publication which appears regularly every day; as, the morning dailies. 

DAILY:  Every day; day by day; as, a thing happens daily. 

DAIMIO:  The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.daimyo The daimios, or territorial nobles, resided in Yedo and were divided into four classes. Am. Cyc. 

DAINT:  Something of exquisite taste; a dainty. [Obs.] -- a.  Dainty. [Obs.] To cherish him with diets daint. Spenser. 

DAINTIFY:  To render dainty, delicate, or fastidious. "Daintified emotion." Sat. rev. 

DAINTILY:  In a dainty manner; nicely; scrupulously; fastidiously; deliciously; prettily. 

DAINTINESS:  The quality of being dainty; nicety; niceness; elegance; delicacy; deliciousness; fastidiousness; squeamishness. The daintiness and niceness of our captains Hakluyt. More notorious for the daintiness of the provision . . . than for the massiveness of the dish. Hakewill. The duke exeeded in the daintiness of his leg and foot, and the earl in the fine shape of his hands, Sir H. Wotton. 

DAINTREL:  Adelicacy. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

DAIRA:  Any of several valuable estates of the Egyptian khedive or his family. The most important are the Da"i*ra Sa"ni*eh, or Sa"ni*yeh, and the Da"i*ra Khas"sa, administered by the khedive's European bondholders, and known collectively as the Daira, or the Daira estates. 

DAIRYING:  The business of conducting a dairy. 

DAIRYMAID:  A female servant whose business is the care of the dairy. 

DAIRYMAN:  A man who keeps or takes care of a dairy. 

DAIRYWOMAN:  A woman who attends to a dairy. 

DAISIED:  Full of daisies; adorned with daisies. "The daisied green." Langhorne. The grass all deep and daisied. G. Eliot. 

DAK:  Post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- spelt also dawk, and dauk. [India] Dak boat, a mail boat. Percy Smith.  -- Dak bungalow, a traveler's rest-house at the and of a dak stage.  -- To travel by dak, to travel by relays of palanquines or other carriage, as fast as the post along a road.  DAKER; DAKIR Da"ker, Da"kir, n. Etym: [See Dicker.] (O. Eng. & Scots Law)  A measure of certain commodities by number, usually ten or twelve, but sometimes twenty; as, a daker of hides consisted of ten skins; a daker of gloves of ten pairs. Burrill.  DAKER HEN Da"ker hen`. Etym: [Perh. fr. W. crecial the daker hen; crec a sharp noise (creg harsh, hoarse, crechian to scream) + iar hen; or cf. D. duiken to dive, plunge.] (Zoöl.)  The corncrake or land rail.  DAKOIT; DAKOITY Da*koit", n., Da*koit"y, n.  See Dacoit, Dacoity.  DAKOTA GROUP Da*ko"ta group`. (Geol.)  A subdivision at the base of the cretaceous formation in Western North America; -- so named from the region where the strata were first studied. 

DAKOTAS:  An extensive race or stock of Indians, including many tribes, mostly dwelling west of the Mississippi River; -- also, in part, called Sioux. [Written also Dacotahs.] 

DAL:  Split pulse, esp. of Cajanus Indicus. [East Indies] 

DALESMAN:  One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to the inhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc. Macaulay. 

DALF:  imp. of Delve. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DALLES:  A rapid, esp. one where the channel is narrowed between rock walls. [Northwestern U. S. & Canada]  The place below, where the compressed river wound like a silver thread among the flat black rocks, was the far-famed Dalles of the Columbia. F. H. Balch. 

DALLIER:  One Who fondles; a trifler; as, dalliers with pleasant words. Asham. 

DALLOP:  A tuft or clump. [Obs.] Tusser. 

DALLY:  To delay unnecessarily; to while away. Dallying off the time with often skirmishes. Knolles. 

DALMANIA:  A genus of trilobites, of many species, common in the Upper Silurian and Devonian rocks. 

DALMANITES:  Same as Dalmania. 

DALMATIAN:  Of or pertaining to Dalmatia. Dalmatian dog (Zoöl.), a carriage dog, shaped like a pointer, and having black or bluish spots on a white ground; the coach dog.  DALMATICA; DALMATIC Dal*mat"i*ca, n., Dal*mat"ic (, n. Etym: [LL. dalmatica: cf. F. dalmatique.]  1. (R. C. Ch.)  A vestment with wide sleeves, and with two stripes, worn at Mass by deacons, and by bishops at pontifical Mass; -- imitated from a dress originally worn in Dalmatia.  2. A robe worn on state ocasions, as by English kings at their coronation.  DAL SEGNO Dal` se"gno. Etym: [It., from the sign.] (Mus.)  A direction to go back to the sign Segno. 

DALTONIAN:  One afflicted with color blindness. 

DALTONISM:  Inability to perceive or distinguish certain colors, esp. red; color blindness. It has various forms and degrees. So called from the chemist Dalton, who had this infirmity. Nichol. 

DAM:  A firebrick wall, or a stone, which forms the front of the hearth of a blast furnace. Dam plate (Blast Furnace), an iron plate in front of the dam, to strengthen it. 

DAMAGE:  The estimated reparation in money for detriment or injury sustained; a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to one party, for a wrong or injury actually done to him by another.  Note: In common-law action, the jury are the proper judges of damages. Consequential damage. See under Consequential.  -- Exemplary damages (Law), damages imposed by way of example to others.  -- Nominal damages (Law), those given for a violation of a right where no actual loss has accrued.  -- Vindictive damages, those given specially for the punishment of the wrongdoer.  Syn.  -- Mischief; injury; harm; hurt; detriment; evil; ill. See Mischief. 

DAMAGE:  To ocassion damage to the soudness, goodness, or value of; to hurt; to injure; to impair. He . . . came up to the English admiral and gave him a broadside, with which he killed many of his men and damaged the ship. Clarendon. 

DAMAGE:  To receive damage or harm; to be injured or impaired in soudness or value; as. some colors in damage in sunlight. 

DAMAGEABLE:  Doing injury; trespassing, as cattle. Blackstone. 

DAMAN:  A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax. The species found in Palestine and Syria is Hyrax Syriacus; that of Northern Africa is H. Brucei; -- called also ashkoko, dassy, and rock rabbit. See Cony, and Hyrax. 

DAMAR:  See Dammar. 

DAMARA:  A native of Damaraland, German Southwest Africa. The Damaras include an important and warlike Bantu tribe, and the Hill Damaras, who are Hottentots and mixed breeds hostile to the Bantus. 

DAMASCENE:  Of or relating to Damascus. 

DAMASCENE:  A kind of plume, now called damson. See Damson. 

DAMASCENE:  Same as Damask, or Damaskeen, v. t. "Damascened armor." Beaconsfield. "Cast and damascened steel." Ure. 

DAMASCUS:  A city of Syria. Damascus blade, a sword or scimiter, made chiefly at Damascus, having a variegated appearance of watering, and proverbial for excellence.  -- Damascus iron, or Damascus twist, metal formed of thin bars or wires of iron and steel elaborately twisted and welded together; used for making gun barrels, etc., of high quality, in which the surface, when polished and acted upon by acid, has a damasc appearance.  -- Damascus steel. See Damask steel, under Damask, a.  DAMASCUS STEEL Da*mas"cus steel.  See Damask steel, under Damask. 

DAMASK:  To decorate in a way peculiar to Damascus or attributed to Damascus; particularly: (a) with flowers and rich designs, as silk; (b) with inlaid lines of gold, etc., or with a peculiar marking or "water," as metal. See Damaskeen. Mingled metal damasked o'er with gold. Dryde On the soft, downy bank, damasked with flowers. Milton.  DAMASKEEN; DAMASKEN Dam"as*keen`, Dam"as*ken, v. t. Etym: [F. damaschinare. See Damascene, v.]  To decorate, as iron, steel, etc., with a peculiar marking or "water" produced in the process of manufacture, or with designs produced by inlaying or incrusting with another metal, as silver or gold, or by etching, etc., to damask. Damaskeening is is partly mosaic work, partly engraving, and partly carving. Ure. 

DAMASKIN:  A sword of Damask steel. No old Toledo blades or damaskins. Howell 

DAMASSE:  Woven like damask.  -- n.  A damassé fabric, esp. one of linen. 

DAMASSIN:  A kind of modified damask or blocade. 

DAMBONITE:  A white crystalline, sugary substance obtained from an African caotchouc. 

DAMBOSE:  A crystalline vari ety of fruit sugar obtained from dambonite. 

DAMEWORT:  A cruciferrous plant (Hesperis matronalis), remarkable for its fragrance, especially toward the close of the day; -- called also rocket and dame's violet. Loudon. 

DAMIANA:  A Mexican drug, used as an aphrodisiac.  Note: There are several varieties derived from different plants, esp. from a species of Turnera and from Bigelovia veneta. Wood & Bache. 

DAMIANIST:  A follower of Damian, patriarch of Alexandria in the 6th century, who held heretical opinions on the doctrine of the Holy Trinity.  DAMMAR; DAMMARA Dam"mar, Dam"ma*ra, n. Etym: [Jav. & Malay. damar.]  An oleoresin used in making varnishes; dammar gum; dammara resin. It is obtained from certain resin trees indigenous to the East Indies, esp. Shorea robusta and the dammar pine. Dammar pine, (Bot.), a tree of the Moluccas (Agathis, or Dammara, orientalis), yielding dammar. 

DAMMARA:  A large tree of the order Coniferæ, indigenous to the East Indies and Australasia; -- called also Agathis. There are several species. 

DAMN:  To doom to punishment in the future world; to consign to perdition; to curse.  3. To condemn as bad or displeasing, by open expression, as by denuciation, hissing, hooting, etc. You are not so arrant a critic as to damn them [the works of modern poets] . . . without hearing. Pope. Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer, And without sneering teach the rest to sneer. Pope.  Note: Damn is sometimes used interjectionally, imperatively, and intensively. 

DAMN:  To invoke damnation; to curse. "While I inwardly damn." Goldsmith. 

DAMNABILITY:  The quality of being damnable; damnableness. Sir T. More. 

DAMNABLENESS:  The state or quality of deserving damnation; execrableness. The damnableness of this most execrable impiety. Prynne. 

DAMNATION:  Condemnation to everlasting punishment in the future state, or the punishment itself. How can ye escape the damnation of hell Matt. xxiii. 33. Wickedness is sin, and sin is damnation. Shak.  3. A sin daserving of everlasting punishment. [R.] The deep damnation of his taking-off. Shak. 

DAMNATORY:  Doo "Damnatory invectives." Hallam. 

DAMNIFIC:  Procuring or causing loss; mischievous; injurious. 

DAMNIFICATION:  That which causes damage or loss. 

DAMNIFY:  To cause loss or damage to; to injure; to imparir. [R.] This work will ask as many more officials to make expurgations and expunctions, that the commonwealth of learning be not damnified. Milton. 

DAMNING:  That damns; damnable; as, damning evidence of guilt. 

DAMNINGNESS:  Tendency to bring damnation. "The damningness of them [sins]." Hammond. 

DAMNUM:  Harm; detriment, either to character or property.  DAMOSEL; DAMOSELLA; DAMOISELLE Dam"o*sel, Dam`o*sel"la, Da`moi`selle", n.  See Damsel. [Archaic] 

DAMOURITE:  A kind of Muscovite, or potash mica, containing water. 

DAMP:  A gaseous prodact, formed in coal mines, old wells, pints, etc. Choke damp, a damp consisting principally of carboniCarbonic acid, under Carbonic.  -- Damp sheet, a curtain in a mine gallery to direct air currents and prevent accumulation of gas.  -- Fire damp, a damp consisting chiefly of light carbureted hydrogen; -- so called from its tendence to explode when mixed with atmospheric air and brought into contact with flame. 

DAMPEN:  To become damp; to deaden. Byron. 

DAMPER:  That which damps or checks; as: (a) A valve or movable plate in the flue or other part of a stove, furnace, etc., used to check or regulate the draught of air. (b) A contrivance, as in a pianoforte, to deaden vibrations; or, as in other pieces of mechanism, to check some action at a particular time. Nor did Sabrina's presence seem to act as any damper at the modest little festivities. W. Black. 

DAMPISH:  Moderately damp or moist.  -- Damp"ish*ly, adv.  -- Damp"ish*ness, n. 

DAMPNE:  To damn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DAMPNESS:  Moderate humidity; moisture; fogginess; moistness.  DAMP OFF Damp" off`.  To decay and perish through excessive moisture. 

DAMSEL:  An attachment to a millstone spindle for shaking the hoppe 

DAMSON:  A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety of the Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum. 

DAN:  A title of honor equivalent to master, or sir. [Obs.] Old Dan Geoffry, in gently spright The pure wellhead of poetry did dwell. Spenser. What time Dan Abraham left the Chaldee land. Thomson. 

DAN:  A small truck or sledge used in coal mines. 

DANAIDE:  A water wheel having a vertical axis, and an inner and outer tapering shell, between which are vanes or floats attached usually to both shells, but sometimes only to one. 

DANAITE:  A cobaltiferous variety of arsenopyrite. 

DANALITE:  A mineral occuring in octahedral crystals, also massive, of a reddish color. It is a silicate of iron, zinc manganese, and glicinum, containing sulphur. 

DANBURITE:  A borosilicate of lime, first found at Danbury, Conn. It is near the topaz in form. Dana. 

DANCE:  To cause to dance, or move nimbly or merrily about, or up and down; to dandle. To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind. Shak. Thy grandsire loved thee well; Many a time he danced thee on his knee. Shak. To dance attendance, to come and go obsequiously; to be or remain in waiting, at the beck and call of another, with a view to please or gain favor. A man of his place, and so near our favor, To dance attendance on their lordships' pleasure. Shak. 

DANCE:  A tune by which dancing is regulated, as the minuet, the waltz, the cotillon, etc.  Note: The word dance was used ironically, by the older writers, of many proceedings besides dancing. Of remedies of love she knew parchance For of that art she couth the olde dance. Chaucer. Dance of Death (Art), an allegorical representation of the power of death over all, -- the old, the young, the high, and the low, being led by a dancing skeleton.  -- Morris dance. See Morris.  -- To lead one a dance, to cause one to go through a series of movements or experiences as if guided by a partner in a dance not understood. 

DANCER:  One who dances or who practices dancing. The merry dancers, beams of the northern lights when they rise and fall alternately without any considerable change of length. See Aurora borealis, under Aurora. 

DANCERESS:  A female dancer. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

DANCETTE:  Deeply indented; having large teeth; thus, a fess dancetté has only three teeth in the whole width of the escutcheon. 

DANCING:  from Dance. Dancing girl, one of the women in the East Indies whose profession is to dance in the temples, or for the amusement of spectators. There are various classes of dancing girls.  -- Dancing master, a teacher of dancing.  -- Dancing school, a school or place where dancing is taught. 

DANCY:  Same as Dancetté. 

DANDELION:  A well-known plant of the genus Taraxacum (T. officinale, formerly called T. Dens-leonis and Leontodos Taraxacum) bearing large, yellow, compound flowers, and deeply notched leaves. 

DANDER:  To wander about; to saunter; to talk incoherently. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

DANDI:  A boatman; an oarsman. [India] 

DANDIE:  One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also Dandie Dinmont.  DANDIE DINMONT; DANDIE Dan"die Din"mont, or Dan"die, n.  1.  In Scott's "Guy Mannering", a Border farmer of eccentric but fine character, who owns two terriers claimed to be the progenitors of the Dandie Dinmont terriers.  2.  One of a breed of terriers with short legs, long body, and rough coat, originating in the country about the English and Scotch border. 

DANDIFIED:  Made up like a dandy; having the dress or manners of a dandy; buckish. 

DANDIFY:  To cause to resemble a dandy; to make dandyish. 

DANDLER:  One who dandles or fondles. 

DANDRIFF:  See Dandruff. Swift. 

DANDRUFF:  A scurf which forms on the head, and comes off in small or particles. [Written also dandriff.] 

DANDY:  A bantam fowl.  DANDYISE; DANDYIZE Dan"dy*ise, v. t. & i.  To make, or to act, like a dandy; to dandify. 

DANDYISH:  Like a dandy. 

DANDYISM:  The manners and dress of a dandy; foppishness. Byron. 

DANDYLING:  A little or insignificant dandy; a contemptible fop. 

DANE:  A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark. Great Dane. (Zoöl.) See Danish dog, under Danish.  DANEGELD; DANEGELT Dane"geld`, Dane"gelt`, n. Etym: [AS. danegeld. See Dane, and Geld, n.] (Eng. Hist.)  An annual tax formerly laid on the English nation to buy off the ravages of Danish invaders, or to maintain forces to oppose them. It afterward became a permanent tax, raised by an assessment, at first of one shilling, afterward of two shillings, upon every hide of land throughout the realm. Wharton's Law Dict. Tomlins. 

DANEWORT:  A fetid European species of elder (Sambucus Ebulus); dwarf elder; wallwort; elderwort; -- called also Daneweed, Dane's weed, and Dane's-blood.  Note: [Said to grow on spots where battles were fought against the Danes.] 

DANG:  imp. of Ding. [Obs.] 

DANG:  To dash. [Obs.] Till she, o'ercome with anguish, shame, and rage, Danged down to hell her loathsome carriage. Marlowe. 

DANGER:  To endanger. [Obs.] Shak. 

DANGERFUL:  Full of danger; dangerous. [Obs.] -- Dan"ger*ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] Udall. 

DANGERLESS:  Free from danger. [R.] 

DANGLE:  To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion. he'd rather on a gibbet dangle Than miss his dear delight, to wrangle. Hudibras. From her lifted hand Dangled a length of ribbon. Tennyson. To dangle about or after, to hang upon importunately; to court the favor of; to beset. The Presbyterians, and other fanatics that dangle after them, are well inclined to pull down the present establishment. Swift. 

DANGLE:  To cause to dangle; to swing, as something suspended loosely; as, to dangle the feet. And the bridegroom stood dangling his bonnet and plume. Sir W. Scott. 

DANGLEBERRY:  A dark blue, edible berry with a white bloom, and its shrub (Gaylussacia frondosa) closely allied to the common huckleberry. The bush is also called blue tangle, and is found from New England to Kentucky, and southward. 

DANGLER:  One who dangles about or after others, especially after women; a trifler. " Danglers at toilets." Burke. 

DANIEL:  A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness of judgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge. A Daniel come to judgment. Shak. 

DANISH:  Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country.  -- n.  The language of the Danes. Danish dog (Zoöl.), one of a large and powerful breed of dogs reared in Denmark; -- called also great Dane. See Illustration in Appendix. 

DANITE:  One of a secret association of Mormons, bound by an oath to obey the heads of the church in all things. [U. S.] 

DANK:  Damp; moist; humid; wet. Now that the fields are dank and ways are mire. Milton. Cheerless watches on the cold, dank ground. Trench. 

DANK:  Moisture; humidity; water. [Obs.] 

DANK:  A small silver coin current in Persia. 

DANKISH:  Somewhat dank.  -- Dank"ish*ness, n. In a dark and dankish vault at home. Shak. 

DANNEBROG:  The ancient battle standard of Denmark, bearing figures of cross and crown. Order of Dannebrog, an ancient Danish order of knighthood. 

DANSEUSE:  a professional female dancer; a woman who dances at a public exhibition as in a ballet. 

DANSK:  Danish. [Obs.] 

DANSKER:  A Dane. [Obs.] Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris. Shak. 

DANTEAN:  Relatingto, emanating from or resembling, the poet Dante or his writings. 

DANTESQUE:  Dantelike; Dantean. Earle. 

DANUBIAN:  Pertainingto, or bordering on, the river Danube. 

DAP:  To drop the bait gently on the surface of the water. To catch a club by dapping with a grasshoper. Walton. 

DAPATICAL:  Sumptuous in cheer. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DAPHNE:  A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and with fragrant blossoms.  2. (Myth.)  A nymph of Diana, fabled to have been changed into a laurel tree. 

DAPHNETIN:  A colorless crystalline substance, C9H6O4, extracted from daphnin. 

DAPHNIA:  A genus of the genus Daphnia. 

DAPHNOMANCY:  Divination by means of the laurel. 

DAPIFER:  One who brings meat to the table; hence, in some countries, the official title of the grand master or steward of the king's or a nobleman's household. 

DAPPER:  Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress or appearance; lively. He wondered how so many provinces could be held in subjection by such a dapper little man. Milton. The dapper ditties that I wont devise. Spenser. Sharp-nosed, dapper steam yachts. Julian Hawthorne. 

DAPPERLING:  A dwarf; a dandiprat. [r.] 

DAPPLE:  One of the spots on a dappled animal. He has . . . as many eyes on his body as my gray mare hath dapples. Sir P. Sidney.  DAPPLE; DAPPLED Dap"ple, Dap"pled, a.  Marked with spots of different shades of color; spotted; variegated; as, a dapple horse. Some dapple mists still floated along the peaks. Sir W. Scott.  Note: The word is used in composition to denote that some color is variegated or marked with spots; as, dapple-bay; dapple-gray. His steed was all dapple-gray. Chaucer. O, swiftly can speed my dapple-gray steed. Sir W. Scott. 

DAPPLE:  To variegate with spots; to spot. The gentle day, . . . Dapples the drowsy east with spots of gray. Shak. The dappled pink and blushing rose. Prior. 

DARBIES:  Manacles; handcuffs. [Cant] Jem Clink will fetch you the darbies. Sir W. Scott.  Note: In "The Steel Glass" by Gascoigne, printed in 1576, occurs the line "To binde such babes in father Derbies bands." 

DARBY:  A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothing ceilings, etc. 

DARBYITE:  One of the Plymouth Brethren, or of a sect among them; -- so called from John N. Darby, one of the leaders of the Brethren. 

DARDANIAN:  Trojan. 

DARE:  To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to be bold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture. I dare do all that may become a man; Who dares do more is none. Shak. Why then did not the ministers use their new law Bacause they durst not, because they could not. Macaulay. Who dared to sully her sweet love with suspicion. Thackeray. The tie of party was stronger than the tie of blood, because a partisan was more ready to dare without asking why. Jowett (Thu  Note: The present tense, I dare, is really an old past tense, so that the third person is he dare, but the form he dares is now often used, and will probably displace the obsolescent he dare, through grammatically as incorrect as he shalls or he cans. Skeat. The pore dar plede (the poor man dare plead). P. Plowman. You know one dare not discover you. Dryden. The fellow dares nopt deceide me. Shak. Here boldly spread thy hands, no venom'd weed Dares blister them, no slimly snail dare creep. Beau. & Fl.  Note: Formerly durst was also used as the present. Sometimes the old form dare is found for durst or dared. 

DARE:  To lurk; to lie hid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DARE:  To terrify; to daunt. [Obs.] For I have done those follies, those mad mischiefs, Would dare a woman. Beau. & Fl. To dare larks, to catch them by producing terror through to use of mirrors, scarlet cloth, a hawk, etc., so that they lie still till a net is thrown over them. Nares. 

DARE:  A small fish; the dace.  DARE-DEVIL Dare"-dev`il, n.  A reckless fellow. Also used adjectively; as, dare-devil excitement. A humorous dare-devil -- the very man To suit my prpose. Ld. Lytton.  DARE-DEVILTRY Dare"-dev`il*try, n; pl. Dare-deviltries (.  Reckless mischief; the action of a dare-devil. 

DAREFUL:  Full af daring or of defiance; adveturous. [R.] Shak. 

DARER:  One who dares or defies.  DARG; DARGUE Darg, Dargue, n. Etym: [Scot., contr. fr. day work.]  A day's work; also, a fixed amount of work, whether more or less than that of a day. [Local, Eng. & Scott] 

DARING:  Boldness; fearlessness; adventurousness; also, a daring act. 

DARING:  Bold; fearless; adventurous; as, daring spirits.  -- Dar"ing*ly, adv.  -- Dar"ing*ness, n. 

DARK:  A dark shade or dark passage in a painting, engraving, or the like; as, the light and darks are well contrasted. The lights may serve for a repose to the darks, and the darks to the lights. Dryden. 

DARK:  To darken to obscure. [Obs.] Milton. 

DARKEN:  To grow or darker. 

DARKENER:  One who, or that which, darkens. 

DARKENING:  Twilight; gloaming. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Wright. 

DARKFUL:  Full of darkness. [Obs.] 

DARKISH:  Somewhat dark; dusky. 

DARKLE:  To grow dark; to show indistinctly. Thackeray. 

DARKLING:  In the dark. [Poetic] So, out went the candle, and we were left darkling. Shak. As the wakeful bird Sings darkling. Milton. 

DARKSOME:  Dark; gloomy; obscure; shaded; cheerless. [Poetic] He brought him through a darksome narrow pass To a broad gate, all built of beaten gold. Spenser. 

DARKY:  A negro. [Sleng] 

DARLING:  One dearly beloved; a favorite. And can do naught but wail her darling's loss. Shak. 

DARLING:  Dearly beloved; regarded with especial kindness and tenderness; favorite. "Some darling science." I. Watts. "Darling sin." Macaulay. 

DARLINGTONIA:  A genus of California pitcher plants consisting of a single species. The long tubular leaves are hooded at the top, and frequently contain many insects drowned in the secretion of the leaves. 

DARN:  To mend as a rent or hole, with interlacing stitches of yarn or thread by means of a needle; to sew together with yarn or thread. He spent every day ten hours in his closet, in darning his stockins. Swift. Darning last. See under Last.  -- Darning needle. (a) A long, strong needle for mending holes or rents, especially in stockings. (b) (Zoöl.) Any species of dragon fly, having a long, cylindrical body, resembling a needle. These flies are harmless and without stings.  Note: [In this sense, usually written with a hyphen.] Called also devil's darning-needle. 

DARN:  A place mended by darning. 

DARN:  A colloquial euphemism for Damn. 

DARNEL:  Any grass of the genus Lolium, esp. the Lolium temulentum (bearded darnel), the grains of which have been reputed poisonous. Other species, as Lolium perenne (rye grass or ray grass), and its variety L. Italicum (Italian rye grass), are highly esteemed for pasture and for making hay.  Note: Under darnel our early herbalists comprehended all kinds of cornfield weeds. Dr. Prior. 

DARNER:  One who mends by darning.  DARNEX; DARNIC Dar"nex, Dar"nic, n.  Same as Dornick. 

DAROO:  The Egyptian sycamore (Ficus Sycamorus). See Sycamore. 

DARR:  The European black tern.  DARRAIGN; DARRAIN Dar"raign, Dar"rain,, v. t. Etym: [OF. deraisnier to explain, defend, to maintain in legal action by proof and reasonings, LL. derationare; de- + rationare to discourse, contend in law, fr. L. ratio reason, in LL., legal cause. Cf. Arraign, and see Reason.]  1. To make ready to fight; to array. [Obs.] Darrain your battle, for they are at hand. Shak.  2. To fight out; to contest; to decide by combat. [Obs.] "To darrain the battle." Chaucer . 

DARREIN:  Last; as, darrein continuance, the last continuance. 

DART:  A fish; the dace. See Dace. Dart sac (Zoöl.), a sac connected with the reproductive organs of land snails, which contains a dart, or arrowlike structure. 

DARTARS:  A kind of scab or ulceration on the skin of lambs. 

DARTER:  The snakebird, a water bird of the genus Plotus; -- so called because it darts out its long, snakelike neck at its prey. See Snakebird.  3. (Zoöl.)  A small fresh-water etheostomoid fish. The group includes numerous genera and species, all of them American. See Etheostomoid. 

DARTINGLY:  Like a dart; rapidly. 

DARTLE:  To pierce or shoot through; to dart repeatedly: -- frequentative of dart. My star that dartles the red and the blue. R. Browning. 

DARTOIC:  Of or pertaining to the dartos. 

DARTOID:  Like the dartos; dartoic; as, dartoid tissue. 

DARTOS:  A thin layer of peculiar contractile tissue directly beneath the skin of the scrotum. 

DARTROUS:  Relating to, or partaking of the nature of, the disease called tetter; herpetic. Dartroud diathesis, A morbid condition of the system predisposing to the development of certain skin deseases, such as eczema, psoriasis, and pityriasis. Also called rheumic diathesis, and hipretism. Piffard. 

DARWINIAN:  Pertaining to Darwin; as, the Darwinian theory, a theory of the manner and cause of the supposed development of living things from certain original forms or elements.  Note: This theory was put forth by Darwin in 1859 in a work entitled "The Origin of species by Means of Natural Selection." The author argues that, in the struggle for existence, those plants and creatures best fitted to the requirements of the situation in which they are placed are the ones that will live; in other words, that Nature selects those which are survive. This is the theory of natural selection or the survival of the fillest. He also argues that natural selection is capable of modifying and producing organisms fit for their circumstances. See Development theory, under Development. 

DARWINIAN:  An advocate of Darwinism. 

DARWINIANISM:  Darwinism. 

DARWINISM:  The theory or doctrines put forth by Darwin. See above. Huxley. 

DASE:  See Daze. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DASEWE:  To become dim-sighted; to become dazed or dazzled. [Obs.] Chauscer. 

DASH:  To rust with violence; to move impetuously; to strike violently; as, the waves dash upon rocks. [He] dashed through thick and thin. Dryden. On each hand the gushing waters play, And down the rough cascade all dashing fall. Thomson. 

DASH:  A mark or line [--], in writing or printing, denoting a sudden break, stop, or transition in a sentence, or an abrupt change in its construction, a long or significant pause, or an unexpected or epigrammatic turn of sentiment. Dashes are also sometimes used instead of marks or parenthesis. John Wilson.  8. (Mus.) (a) The sign of staccato, a small mark [. (b) The line drawn through a figure in the thorough bass, as a direction to raise the interval a semitone.  9. (Racing)  A short, spirited effort or trial of speed upon a race course; -- used in horse racing, when a single trial constitutes the race. 

DASHEEN:  A tropical aroid (of the genus Caladium, syn. Colocasia) having an edible farinaceous root. It is related to the taro and to the tanier, but is much superior to it in quality and is as easily cooked as the potato. It is a staple food plant of the tropics, being prepared like potatoes, and has been introduced into the Southern United States. 

DASHING:  Bold; spirited; showy. The dashing and daring spirit is preferable to the listless. T. Campbell. 

DASHINGLY:  Conspicuously; showily. [Colloq.] A dashingly dressed gentleman. Hawthorne. 

DASHISM:  The character of making ostentatious or blustering parade or show. [R. & Colloq.] He must fight a duel before his claim to . . . dashism can be universally allowed. V. Knox. 

DASHPOT:  A pneumatic or hydraulic cushion for a falling weight, as in the valve gear of a steam engine, to prevent shock.  Note: It consists of a chamber, containing air or a liquid, in which a piston (a), attached to the weight, falls freely until it enters a space (as below the openings, b) from which the air or liquid can escape but slowly (as through cock c), when its fall is gradually checked.  Note: A cataract of an engine is sometimes called a dashpot. 

DASHY:  Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable; showy. [Colloq.] 

DASTARD:  One who meanly shrinks from danger; an arrant coward; a poltroon. You are all recreants and dashtards, and delight to live in slavery to the nobility. Shak. 

DASTARD:  Meanly shrinking from danger; cowardly; dastardly. "Their dastard souls." Addison. 

DASTARD:  To dastardize. [R.] Dryden. 

DASTARDIZE:  To make cowardly; to intimidate; to dispirit; as, to dastardize my courage. Dryden. 

DASTARDLINESS:  The quality of being dastardly; cowardice; base fear. 

DASTARDLY:  Meanly timid; cowardly; base; as, a dastardly outrage. 

DASTARDNESS:  Dastardliness. 

DASTARDY:  Base timidity; cowardliness. 

DASWE:  See Dasewe [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DASYMETER:  An instrument for testing the density of gases, consisting of a thin glass globe, which is weighed in the gas or gases, and then in an atmosphere of known density. 

DASYPAEDAL:  Dasypædic. 

DASYPAEDES:  Those birds whose young are covered with down when hatched. 

DASYPAEDIC:  Pertaining to the Dasypædes; ptilopædic. 

DASYURE:  A carnivorous marsupial quadruped of Australia, belonging to the genus Dasyurus. There are several species. 

DASYURINE:  Pertaining to, or like, the dasyures. 

DATA:  See Datum. 

DATABLE:  That may be dated; having a known or ascertainable date. "Datable almost to a year." The Century. 

DATARIA:  Formerly, a part of the Roman chancery; now, a separate office from which are sent graces or favors, cognizable in foro externo, such as appointments to benefices. The name is derived from the word datum, given or dated (with the indications of the time and place of granting the gift or favor). 

DATARY:  An officer in the pope's court, having charge of the Dataria.  2. The office or employment of a datary. 

DATE:  The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself.  Note: This fruit is somewhat in the shape of an olive, containing a soft pulp, sweet, esculent, and wholesome, and inclosing a hard kernel. Date palm, or Date tree (Bot.), the genus of palms which bear dates, of which common species is Phoenix dactylifera. See Illust.  -- Date plum (Bot.), the fruit of several species of Diospyros, including the American and Japanese persimmons, and the European lotus (D. Lotus).  -- Date shell, or Date fish (Zoöl.), a bivalve shell, or its inhabitant, of the genus Pholas, and allied genera. See Pholas. 

DATE:  To have beginning; to begin; to be dated or reckoned; -- with from. The Batavian republic dates from the successes of the French arms. E. Everett. 

DATELESS:  Without date; having no fixed time.  DATE LINE Date line.  The hypothetical line on the surface of the earth fixed by international or general agreement as a boundary on one side of which the same day shall have a different name and date in the calendar from its name and date on the other side.   Speaking generally, the date line coincides with the meridian 180º from Greenwich. It deflects between north latitudes 80º and 45º, so that all Asia lies to the west, all North America, including the Aleutian Islands, to the east of the line; and between south latitudes 12º and 56º, so that Chatham Island and the Tonga group lie to the west of it. A vessel crossing this line to the westward sets the date forward by one day, as from Sunday to Monday. A vessel crossing the line to the eastward sets the date back by one day, as from Monday to Sunday. Hawaii has the same day name as San Francisco; Manila, the same day name as Australia, and this is one day later than the day of Hawaii. Thus when it is Monday May 1st at San Francisco it is Tuesday may 2d at Manila. 

DATER:  One who dates. 

DATISCIN:  A white crystalline glucoside extracted from the bastard hemp (Datisca cannabina). 

DATIVE:  Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object, and is generally indicated in English by to or for with the objective.  2. (Law) (a) In one's gift; capable of being disposed of at will and pleasure, as an office. (b) Removable, as distinguished from perpetual; -- said of an officer. (c) Given by a magistrate, as distinguished from being cast upon a party by the law. Burril. Bouvier. Dative executor, one appointed by the judge of probate, his office answering to that of an administrator. 

DATIVE:  The dative case. See Dative, a.,  1. 

DATIVELY:  As a gift. [R.] 

DATOLITE:  A borosilicate of lime commonly occuring in glassy,, greenish crystals. [Written also datholite.] 

DATUM:  The quantities or relations which are assumed to be given in any problem. Datum line (Surv.), the horizontal or base line, from which the heights of points are reckoned or measured, as in the plan of a railway, etc. 

DATURA:  A genus of solanaceous plants, with large funnel-shaped flowers and a four-celled, capsular fruit.  Note: The commonest species are the thorn apple (D. stramonium), with a prickly capsule (see Illust. of capsule), white flowers and green stem, and D. tatula, with a purplish tinge of the stem and flowers. Both are narcotic and dangerously poisonous. 

DATURINE:  Atropine; -- called also daturia and daturina. 

DAUB:  To smear; to play the flatterer. His conscience . . . will not daub nor flatter. South. 

DAUB:  A picture coarsely executed. Did you . . . take a look at the grand picture . . . 'T is a melancholy daub, my lord. Sterne. 

DAUBER:  A pad or ball of rags, covered over with canvas, for inking plates; a dabber.  3. A low and gross flattere.  4. (Zoöl.)  The mud wasp; the mud dauber.  DAUBERY; DAUBRY Daub"er*y, or Daub"ry, n.  A daubing; specious coloring; false pretenses. She works by charms, by spells, by the figure, and such daubery as this is. Shak. 

DAUBREELITE:  A sulphide of chromium observed in some meteoric irons. 

DAUBY:  Smeary; viscous; glutinous; adhesive. "Dauby wax." 

DAUGHTER:  The wife of one's son. 

DAUGHTERLINESS:  The state of a daughter, or the conduct becoming a daughter. 

DAUGHTERLY:  Becoming a daughter; filial. Sir Thomas liked her natural and dear daughterly affection towards him. Cavendish. 

DAUK:  See Dawk, v. t., to cut or gush. 

DAUN:  A variant of Dan, a title of honor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DAUNTER:  One who daunts. 

DAUNTLESS:  Incapable of being daunted; undaunted; bold; fearless; intrepid. Dauntless he rose, and to the fight returned. Dryden. -- Daunt"less*ly, adv.  -- Daunt"less*ness, n. 

DAUPHIN:  The title of the eldest son of the king of France, and heir to the crown. Since the revolution of 1830, the title has been discontinued.  DAUPHINESS; DAUPHINE Dau"phin*ess, or Dau"phine, n.  The title of the wife of the dauphin. 

DAUW:  The striped quagga, or Burchell's zebra, of South Africa (Asinus Burchellii); -- called also peechi, or peetsi. 

DAVENPORT:  A kind of small writing table, generally somewhat ornamental, and forming a piece of furniture for the parlor or boudoir. A much battered davenport in one of the windows, at which sat a lady writing. A. B. Edwards. 

DAVIDIC:  Of or pertaining to David, the king and psalmist of Israel, or to his family. 

DAVIT:  Curved arms of timber or iron, projecting over a ship's side of stern, having tackle to raise or lower a boat, swing it in on deck, rig it out for lowering, etc.; -- called also boat davits. Totten.  DAVY JONES Da"vy Jones".  The spirit of the sea; sea devil; -- a term used by sailors. This same Davy Jones, according to the mythology of sailors, is the fiend that presides over all the evil spirits of the deep, and is seen in various shapes warning the devoted wretch of death and woe. Smollett. Davy Jones's Locker, the ocean, or bottom of the ocean.  -- Gone to Davy Jones's Locker, dead, and buried in the sea; thrown overboard.  DAVY LAMP Da"vy lamp`.  See Safety lamp, under Lamp. 

DAVYNE:  A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius. 

DAVYUM:  A rare metallic element found in platinum ore. It is a white malleable substance. Symbol Da. Atomic weight 154. 

DAW:  A European bird of the Crow family (Corvus monedula), often nesting in church towers and ruins; a jackdaw. The loud daw, his throat displaying, draw The whole assembly of his fellow daws. Waller.  Note: The daw was reckoned as a silly bird, and a daw meant a simpleton. See in Shakespeare: -- "Then thou dwellest with daws too." (Coriolanus iv. 5, 1. 47.) Skeat. 

DAW:  To dawn. [Obs.] See Dawn. 

DAWDLE:  To waste time in trifling employment; to trifle; to saunter. Come some evening and dawdle over a dish of tea with me. Johnson. We . . . dawdle up and down Pall Mall. Thackeray. 

DAWDLE:  To waste by trifling; as, to dawdle away a whole morning. 

DAWDLE:  A dawdler. Colman & Carrick. 

DAWDLER:  One who wastes time in trifling employments; an idler; a trifler. 

DAWE:  Day. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DAWISH:  Like a daw. 

DAWK:  See Dak. 

DAWK:  To cut or mark with an incision; to gash. Moxon. 

DAWK:  A hollow, crack, or cut, in timber. Moxon. 

DAWSONITE:  A hydrous carbonate of alumina and soda, occuring in white, bladed crustals. 

DAYAKS:  See Dyaks. 

DAYBOOK:  A journal of accounts; a primary record book in which are recorded the debts and credits, or accounts of the day, in their order, and from which they are transferred to the journal. 

DAYBREAK:  The time of the first appearance of light in the morning.  DAY-COAL Day"-coal`, n. (Mining)  The upper stratum of coal, as nearest the light or surface. 

DAYDREAM:  A vain fancy speculation; a reverie; a castle in the air; unfounded hope. Mrs. Lambert's little daydream was over. Thackeray. 

DAYDREAMER:  One given to draydreams. 

DAYFLOWER:  A genus consisting mostly of tropical perennial herbs (Commelina), having ephemeral flowers. 

DAYFLY:  A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera, of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; the ephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day in the winged or adult state. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral.  DAY-LABOR Day"-la`bor, n.  Labor hired or performed by the day. Milton.  DAY-LABORER Day"-la`bor*er, n.  One who works by the day; -- usually applied to a farm laborer, or to a workman who does not work at any particular trade. Goldsmith. 

DAYLIGHT:  The eyes. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.  DAY LILY Day" lil`y. (Bot.) (a) A genus of plants (Hemerocallis) closely resembling true lilies, but having tuberous rootstocks instead of bulbs. The common species have long narrow leaves and either yellow or tawny-orange flowers. (b) A genus of plants (Funkia) differing from the last in having ovate veiny leaves, and large white or blue flowers. 

DAYMAID:  A dairymaid. [Obs.] 

DAYMARE:  A kind of incubus which occurs during wakefulness, attended by the peculiar pressure on the chest which characterizes nightmare. Dunglison.  DAY-NET Day"-net`, n.  A net for catching small birds.  DAY-PEEP Day"-peep`, n.  The dawn. [Poetic] Milton. 

DAYSMAN:  An umpire or arbiter; a mediator. Neither is there any daysman betwixt us. Job ix. 33. 

DAYSPRING:  The beginning of the day, or first appearance of light; the dawn; hence, the beginning. Milton. The tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us. Luke i. 78.  DAY-STAR Day"-star`, n.  1. The morning star; the star which ushers in the day. A dark place, until the day dawn, and the day-star arise in your hearts. 2 Peter i. 19.  2. The sun, as the orb of day. [Poetic] So sinks the day-star in the ocean bed, And yet anon repairs his drooping head, And tricks his beams, and with new-spangled ore Flames in the forehead of the morning sky. Milton. 

DAYTIME:  The time during which there is daylight, as distinguished from the night. 

DAYWOMAN:  A dairymaid. [Obs.] 

DAZE:  To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, or with fear; to confuse; to benumb. While flashing beams do daze his feeble eyen. Spenser. Such souls, Whose sudden visitations daze the world. Sir H. Taylor. He comes out of the room in a dazed state, that is an odd though a sufficient substitute for interest. Dickens. 

DAZE:  A glittering stone. 

DAZZLE:  A light of dazzling brilliancy. 

DAZZLEMENT:  Dazzling flash, glare, or burst of light. Donne. 

DAZZLINGLY:  In a dazzling manner.  DE- De-.  A prefix from Latin de down, from, away; as in debark, decline, decease, deduct, decamp. In words from the French it is equivalent to Latin dis- apart, away; or sometimes to de. Cf. Dis-. It is negative and opposite in derange, deform, destroy, etc. It is intensive in deprave, despoil, declare, desolate, etc. 

DEACON:  An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certain subordinate duties varying in different communions. In the Roman Catholic and Episcopal churches, a person admitted to the lowest order in the ministry, subordinate to the bishops and priests. In Presbyterian churches, he is subordinate to the minister and elders, and has charge of certain duties connected with the communion service and the care of the poor. In Congregational churches, he is subordinate to the pastor, and has duties as in the Presbyterian church.  2. The chairman of an incorporated company. [Scot.] 

DEACON:  To read aloud each line of (a psalm or hymn) before singing it, -- usually with off. [Colloq. New. Eng.] See Line, v. t.  Note: The expression is derived from a former custom in the Congregational churches of New England. It was part of the office of a deacon to read aloud the psalm given out, one line at a time, the congregation singing each line as soon as read; -- called, also, lining out the psalm. 

DEACONESS:  A female deacon; as: (a) (Primitive Ch.) One of an order of women whose duties resembled those of deacons. (b) (Ch. of Eng. and Prot. Epis. Ch.)  A woman set apart for church work by a bishop. (c) A woman chosen as a helper in church work, as among the Congregationalists. 

DEACONHOOD:  The state of being a deacon; office of a deacon; deaconship. 

DEACONRY:  See Deaconship. 

DEACONSHIP:  The office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess. 

DEAD:  Cut off from the rights of a citizen; deprived of the power of enjoying the rights of property; as, one banished or becoming a monk is civilly dead.  14. (Mach.)  Not imparting motion or power; as, the dead spindle of a lathe, etc. See Spindle. Dead ahead (Naut.), directly ahead; -- said of a ship or any object, esp. of the wind when blowing from that point toward which a vessel would go.  -- Dead angle (Mil.), an angle or space which can not be seen or defended from behind the parapet.  -- Dead block, either of two wooden or iron blocks intended to serve instead of buffers at the end of a freight car.  -- Dead calm (Naut.), no wind at all.  -- Dead center, or Dead point (Mach.), either of two points in the orbit of a crank, at which the crank and connecting rod lie a straight line. It corresponds to the end of a stroke; as, A and B are dead centers of the crank mechanism in which the crank C drives, or is driven by, the lever L.  -- Dead color (Paint.), a color which has no gloss upon it.  -- Dead coloring (Oil paint.), the layer of colors, the preparation for what is to follow. In modern painting this is usually in monochrome.  -- Dead door (Shipbuilding), a storm shutter fitted to the outside of the quarter-gallery door.  -- Dead flat (Naut.), the widest or midship frame.  -- Dead freight (Mar. Law), a sum of money paid by a person who charters a whole vessel but fails to make out a full cargo. The payment is made for the unoccupied capacity. Abbott.  -- Dead ground (Mining), the portion of a vein in which there is no ore.  -- Dead hand, a hand that can not alienate, as of a person civilly dead. "Serfs held in dead hand." Morley. See Mortmain.  -- Dead head (Naut.), a rough block of wood used as an anchor buoy.  -- Dead heat, a heat or course between two or more race horses, boats, etc., in which they come out exactly equal, so that neither wins.  -- Dead horse, an expression applied to a debt for wages paid in advance. [Law] -- Dead language, a language which is no longer spoken or in common use by a people, and is known only in writings, as the Hebrew, Greek, and Latin.  -- Dead letter. (a) A letter which, after lying for a certain fixed time uncalled for at the post office to which it was directed, is then sent to the general post office to be opened. (b) That which has lost its force or authority; as, the law has become a dead letter.  -- Dead-letter office, a department of the general post office where dead letters are examined and disposed of.  -- Dead level, a term applied to a flat country.  -- Dead lift, a direct lift, without assistance from mechanical advantage, as from levers, pulleys, etc.; hence, an extreme emergency. "(As we say) at a dead lift." Robynson (More's Utopia).  -- Dead line (Mil.), a line drawn within or around a military prison, to cross which involves for a prisoner the penalty of being instantly shot.  -- Dead load (Civil Engin.), a constant, motionless load, as the weight of a structure, in distinction from a moving load, as a train of cars, or a variable pressure, as of wind.  -- Dead march (Mus.), a piece of solemn music intended to be played as an accompaniment to a funeral procession.  -- Dead nettle (Bot.), a harmless plant with leaves like a nettle (Lamium album).  -- Dead oil (Chem.), the heavy oil obtained in the distillation of coal tar, and containing phenol, naphthalus, etc.  -- Dead plate (Mach.), a solid covering over a part of a fire grate, to prevent the entrance of air through that part.  -- Dead pledge, a mortgage. See Mortgage.  -- Dead point. (Mach.) See Dead center.  -- Dead reckoning (Naut.), the method of determining the place of a ship from a record kept of the courses sailed as given by compass, and the distance made on each course as found by log, with allowance for leeway, etc., without the aid of celestial observations.  -- Dead rise, the transverse upward curvature of a vessel's floor.  -- Dead rising, an elliptical line drawn on the sheer plan to determine the sweep of the floorheads throughout the ship's length.  -- Dead-Sea apple. See under Apple.  -- Dead set. See under Set.  -- Dead shot. (a) An unerring marksman. (b) A shot certain to be made.  -- Dead smooth, the finest cut made; -- said of files.  -- Dead wall (Arch.), a blank wall unbroken by windows or other openings.  -- Dead water (Naut.), the eddy water closing in under a ship's stern when sailing.  -- Dead weight. (a) A heavy or oppressive burden. Dryden. (b) (Shipping) A ship's lading, when it consists of heavy goods; or, the heaviest part of a ship's cargo. (c) (Railroad) The weight of rolling stock, the live weight being the load. Knight.  -- Dead wind (Naut.), a wind directly ahead, or opposed to the ship's course.  -- To be dead, to die. [Obs.] I deme thee, thou must algate be dead. Chaucer.  Syn.  -- Inanimate; deceased; extinct. See Lifeless. 

DEAD:  To a degree resembling death; to the last degree; completely; wholly. [Colloq.] I was tired of reading, and dead sleepy. Dickens. Dead drunk, so drunk as to be unconscious. 

DEAD:  To make dead; to deaden; to deprive of life, force, or vigor. [Obs.] Heaven's stern decree, With many an ill, hath numbed and deaded me. Chapman. 

DEAD:  To die; to lose life or force. [Obs.] So iron, as soon as it is out of the fire, deadeth straightway. Bacon.  DEAD BEAT Dead` beat".  See Beat, n., 7. [Low, U.S.] 

DEADBEAT:  Making a beat without recoil; giving indications by a single beat or excursion; -- said of galvanometers and other instruments in which the needle or index moves to the extent of its deflection and stops with little or no further oscillation. Deadbeat escapement. See under Escapement. 

DEADBORN:  Stillborn. Pope. 

DEADENER:  One who, or that which, deadens or checks.  DEAD-EYE Dead"-eye`, n. (Naut.)  A round, flattish, wooden block, encircled by a rope, or an iron band, and pierced with three holes to receive the lanyard; -- used to extend the shrouds and stays, and for other purposes. Called also deadman's eye. Totten. 

DEADHEAD:  A buoy. See under Dead, a.  DEADHEARTED; DEAD-HEARTED Dead"*heart`ed, a.  Having a dull, faint heart; spiritless; listless.  -- Dead"*heart`ed*ness, n. Bp. Hall. 

DEADHOUSE:  A morgue; a place for the temporary reception and exposure of dead bodies. 

DEADISH:  Somewhat dead, dull, or lifeless; deathlike. The lips put on a deadish paleness. A. Stafford. 

DEADLATCH:  A kind of latch whose bolt may be so locked by a detent that it can not be opened from the inside by the handle, or from the outside by the latch key. Knight. 

DEADLIGHT:  A strong shutter, made to fit open ports and keep out water in a storm. 

DEADLIHOOD:  State of the dead. [Obs.] 

DEADLINESS:  The quality of being deadly. 

DEADNESS:  The state of being destitute of life, vigor, spirit, activity, etc.; dullness; inertness; languor; coldness; vapidness; indifference; as, the deadness of a limb, a body, or a tree; the deadness of an eye; deadness of the affections; the deadness of beer or cider; deadness to the world, and the like.  DEAD-PAY Dead"-pay`, n.  Pay drawn for soldiers, or others, really dead, whose names are kept on the rolls. O you commanders, That, like me, have no dead-pays. Massinger.  DEAD-RECKONING Dead"-reck`on*ing, n. (Naut.)  See under Dead, a. 

DEADS:  The substances which inclose the ore on every side.  DEAD-STROKE Dead"-stroke`, a. (Mech.)  Making a stroke without recoil; deadbeat. Dead-stroke hammer (Mach.), a power hammer having a spring interposed between the driving mechanism and the hammer head, or helve, to lessen the recoil of the hammer and reduce the shock upon the mechanism. 

DEADWOOD:  A mass of timbers built into the bow and stern of a vessel to give solidity.  2. Dead trees or branches; useless material. 

DEADWORKS:  The parts of a ship above the water when she is laden. 

DEAF:  To deafen. [Obs.] Dryden. 

DEAFEN:  To render impervious to sound, as a partition or floor, by filling the space within with mortar, by lining with paper, etc. 

DEAFENING:  The act or process of rendering impervious to sound, as a floor or wall; also, the material with which the spaces are filled in this process; pugging. 

DEAFLY:  Without sense of sounds; obscurely. 

DEAFLY:  Lonely; solitary. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  DEAF-MUTE Deaf"-mute`, n.  A person who is deaf and dumb; one who, through deprivation or defect of hearing, has either failed the acquire the power of speech, or has lost it. [See Illust. of Dactylology.] Deaf-mutes are still so called, even when, by artificial methods, they have been taught to speak imperfectly.  DEAF-MUTISM Deaf"-mut`ism, n.  The condition of being a deaf-mute. 

DEAL:  The division of a piece of timber made by sawing; a board or plank; particularly, a board or plank of fir or pine above seven inches in width, and exceeding six feet in length. If narrower than this, it is called a batten; if shorter, a deal end.  Note: Whole deal is a general term for planking one and one half inches thick.  6. Wood of the pine or fir; as, a floor of deal. Deal tree, a fir tree. Dr. Prior. 

DEALBATE:  To whiten. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

DEALBATION:  Act of bleaching; a whitening. [Obs.] 

DEALFISH:  A long, thin fish of the arctic seas (Trachypterus arcticus). 

DEALING:  The act of one who deals; distribution of anything, as of cards to the players; method of business; traffic; intercourse; transaction; as, to have dealings with a person. Double dealing, insincere, treacherous dealing; duplicity.  -- Plain dealing, fair, sincere, honorable dealing; honest, outspoken expression of opinion. 

DEALTH:  Share dealt. [Obs.] 

DEAMBULATE:  To walk abroad. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

DEAMBULATION:  A walking abroad; a promenading. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

DEAMBULATORY:  Going about from place to place; wandering; of or pertaining to a deambulatory. [Obs.] "Deambulatory actors." Bp. Morton. 

DEAMBULATORY:  A covered place in which to walk; an ambulatory. 

DEANSHIP:  The office of a dean. I dont't value your deanship a straw. Swift. 

DEAR:  A dear one; lover; sweetheart. That kiss I carried from thee, dear. Shak. 

DEAR:  Dearly; at a high price. If thou attempt it, it will cost thee dear. Shak. 

DEAR:  To endear. [Obs.] Shelton. 

DEARBORN:  A four-wheeled carriage, with curtained sides.  DEAR-BOUGHT Dear"-bought`, a.  Bought at a high price; as, dear-bought experience. 

DEARE:  variant of Dere, v. t. & n. [Obs.] 

DEARIE:  Same as Deary. Dickens. 

DEARLING:  A darling. [Obs.] Spenser.  DEAR-LOVED Dear"-loved`, a.  Greatly beloved. Shak. 

DEARN:  Secret; lonely; solitary; dreadful. [Obs.] Shak.  -- Dearn"ly, adv. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEARN:  Same as Darn. [Obs.] 

DEARTH:  Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack of food on account of failure of crops; famine. There came a dearth over all the land of Egypt. Acts vii. 11. He with her press'd, she faint with dearth. Shak. Dearth of plot, and narrowness of imagination. Dryden. 

DEARTICULATE:  To disjoint. 

DEARWORTH:  Precious. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

DEARY:  A dear; a darling. [Familiar] 

DEAS:  See Dais. [Scot.] 

DEATH:  Loss of spiritual life. To be death. Rom. viii. 6.  9. Anything so dreadful as to be like death. It was death to them to think of entertaining such doctrines. Atterbury. And urged him, so that his soul was vexed unto death. Judg. xvi. 16.  Note: Death is much used adjectively and as the first part of a compound, meaning, in general, of or pertaining to death, causing or presaging death; as, deathbed or death bed; deathblow or death blow, etc. Black death. See Black death, in the Vocabulary.  -- Civil death, the separation of a man from civil society, or the debarring him from the enjoyment of civil rights, as by banishment, attainder, abjuration of the realm, entering a monastery, etc. Blackstone.  -- Death adder. (Zoöl.) (a) A kind of viper found in South Africa (Acanthophis tortor); -- so called from the virulence of its venom. (b) A venomous Australian snake of the family Elapidæ, of several species, as the Hoplocephalus superbus and Acanthopis antarctica.  -- Death bell, a bell that announces a death. The death bell thrice was heard to ring. Mickle. -- Death candle, a light like that of a candle, viewed by the superstitious as presaging death.  -- Death damp, a cold sweat at the coming on of death.  -- Death fire, a kind of ignis fatuus supposed to forebode death. And round about in reel and rout, The death fires danced at night. Coleridge. -- Death grapple, a grapple or struggle for life.  -- Death in life, a condition but little removed from death; a living death. [Poetic] "Lay lingering out a five years' death in life." Tennyson.  -- Death knell, a stroke or tolling of a bell, announcing a death.  -- Death rate, the relation or ratio of the number of deaths to the population. At all ages the death rate is higher in towns than in rural districts. Darwin. -- Death rattle, a rattling or gurgling in the throat of a dying person.  -- Death's door, the boundary of life; the partition dividing life from death.  -- Death stroke, a stroke causing death.  -- Death throe, the spasm of death.  -- Death token, the signal of approaching death.  -- Death warrant. (a) (Law) An order from the proper authority for the execution of a criminal. (b) That which puts an end to expectation, hope, or joy.  -- Death wound. (a) A fatal wound or injury. (b) (Naut.) The springing of a fatal leak.  -- Spiritual death (Scripture), the corruption and perversion of the soul by sin, with the loss of the favor of God.  -- The gates of death, the grave. Have the gates of death been opened unto thee Job xxxviii. 17. -- The second death, condemnation to eternal separation from God. Rev. ii. 11.  -- To be the death of, to be the cause of death to; to make die. "It was one who should be the death of both his parents." Milton.  Syn.  -- Death, Decrase, Departure, Release. Death applies to the termination of every form of existence, both animal and vegetable; the other words only to the human race. Decease is the term used in law for the removal of a human being out of life in the ordinary course of nature. Demise was formerly confined to decease of princes, but is now sometimes used of distinguished men in general; as, the demise of Mr. Pitt. Departure and release are peculiarly terms of Christian affection and hope. A violent death is not usually called a decease. Departure implies a friendly taking leave of life. Release implies a deliverance from a life of suffering or sorrow. 

DEATHBED:  The bed in which a person dies; hence, the closing hours of life of one who dies by sickness or the like; the last sickness. That often-quoted passage from Lord Hervey in which the Queen's deathbed is described. Thackeray. 

DEATHBIRD:  Tengmalm's or Richardson's owl (Nyctale Tengmalmi); -- so called from a superstition of the North American Indians that its note presages death. 

DEATHBLOW:  A mortal or crushing blow; a stroke or event which kills or destroys. The deathblow of my hope. Byron. 

DEATHFULNESS:  Appearance of death. Jer. Taylor. 

DEATHLESS:  Not subject to death, destruction, or extinction; immortal; undying; imperishable; as, deathless beings; deathless fame. 

DEATHLINESS:  The quality of being deathly; deadliness. Southey. 

DEATHLY:  Deadly; fatal; mortal; destructive. 

DEATHLY:  Deadly; as, deathly pale or sick.  DEATH'S-HEAD Death's"-head`, n.  A naked human skull as the emblem of death; the head of the conventional personification of death. I had rather be married to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth. Shak. Death's-head moth (Zoöl.), a very large European moth (Acherontia atropos), so called from a figure resembling a human skull on the back of the thorax; -- called also death's-head sphinx.  DEATH'S-HERB Death's"-herb`, n.  The deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna). Dr. Prior. 

DEATHSMAN:  An executioner; a headsman or hangman. [Obs.] Shak. 

DEATHWARD:  Toward death. 

DEAURATE:  Gilded. [Obs.] 

DEAURATE:  To gild. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEAURATION:  Act of gilding. [Obs.] 

DEAVE:  To stun or stupefy with noise; to deafen. [Scot.] 

DEBACCHATE:  To rave as a bacchanal. [R.] Cockeram. 

DEBACCHATION:  Wild raving or debauchery. [R.] Prynne. 

DEBACLE:  A breaking or bursting forth; a violent rush or flood of waters which breaks down opposing barriers, and hurls forward and disperses blocks of stone and other débris. 

DEBAR:  To cut off from entrance, as if by a bar or barrier; to preclude; to hinder from approach, entry, or enjoyment; to shut out or exclude; to deny or refuse; -- with from, and sometimes with of. Yet not so strictly hath our Lord imposed Labor, as to debar us when we need Refreshment. Milton. Their wages were so low as to debar them, not only from the comforts but from the common decencies of civilized life. Buckle. 

DEBARB:  To deprive of the beard. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEBARK:  To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore. 

DEBARKATION:  Disembarkation. The debarkation, therefore, had to take place by small steamers. U. S. Grant. 

DEBARMENT:  Hindrance from approach; exclusion. 

DEBARRASS:  To disembarrass; to relieve. [R.] 

DEBASE:  To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth, dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate; to abase; as, to debase the character by crime; to debase the mind by frivolity; to debase style by vulgar words. The coin which was adulterated and debased. Hale. It is a kind of taking God's name in vain to debase religion with such frivolous disputes. Hooker. And to debase the sons, exalts the sires. Pope.  Syn.  -- To abase; degrade. See Abase. 

DEBASED:  Turned upside down from its proper position; inverted; reversed. 

DEBASEMENT:  The act of debasing or the state of being debased. Milton. 

DEBASER:  One who, or that which, debases. 

DEBASINGLY:  In a manner to debase. 

DEBATABLE:  Liable to be debated; disputable; subject to controversy or contention; open to question or dispute; as, a debatable question. The Debatable Land or Ground, a tract of land between the Esk and the Sark, claimed by both England and Scotland; the Batable Ground. 

DEBATEFUL:  Full of contention; contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DEBATEFULLY:  With contention. [Obs.] 

DEBATEMENT:  Controversy; deliberation; debate. [R.] A serious question and debatement with myself. Milton. 

DEBATER:  One who debates; one given to argument; a disputant; a controvertist. Debate where leisure serves with dull debaters. Shak. 

DEBATING:  The act of discussing or arguing; discussion. Debating society or club, a society or club for the purpose of debate and improvement in extemporaneous speaking. 

DEBATINGLY:  In the manner of a debate. 

DEBAUCH:  To lead away from purity or excellence; to corrupt in character or principles; to mar; to vitiate; to pollute; to seduce; as, to debauch one's self by intemperance; to debauch a woman; to debauch an army. Learning not debauched by ambition. Burke. A man must have got his conscience thoroughly debauched and hardened before he can arrive to the height of sin. South. Her pride debauched her judgment and her eyes. Cowley. 

DEBAUCHED:  Dissolute; dissipated. "A coarse and debauched look." Ld. Lytton. 

DEBAUCHEDLY:  In a profligate manner. 

DEBAUCHEDNESS:  The state of being debauched; intemperance. Bp. Hall. 

DEBAUCHEE:  One who is given to intemperance or bacchanalian excesses; a man habitually lewd; a libertine. 

DEBAUCHER:  One who debauches or corrupts others; especially, a seducer to lewdness. 

DEBAUCHMENT:  The act of corrupting; the act of seducing from virtue or duty. 

DEBAUCHNESS:  Debauchedness. [Obs.] 

DEBEIGE:  A kind of woolen or mixed dress goods. [Written also debage.] 

DEBEL:  To conquer. [Obs.] Milton. 

DEBELLATE:  To subdue; to conquer in war. [Obs.] Speed. 

DEBELLATION:  The act of conquering or subduing. [Obs.]  DE BENE ESSE De be"ne es"se. Etym: [L.] (Law)  Of well being; of formal sufficiency for the time; conditionally; provisionally. Abbott. 

DEBENTURED:  Entitled to drawback or debenture; as, debentured goods.  DEBENTURE STOCK Debenture stock. (Finance)  The debt or series of debts, collectively, represented by a series of debentures; a debt secured by a trust deed of property for the benefit of the holders of shares in the debt or of a series of debentures. By the terms of much debenture stock the holders are not entitled to demand payment until the winding up of the company or default in payment; in the winding up of the company or default in payment; in the case of railway debentures, they cannot demand payment of the principal, and the debtor company cannot redeem the stock, except by authority of an act of Parliament. [Eng.] 

DEBILE:  Weak. [Obs.] Shak. 

DEBILITANT:  Diminishing the energy of organs; reducing excitement; as, a debilitant drug. 

DEBILITATE:  To impair the strength of; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, to debilitate the body by intemperance. Various ails debilitate the mind. Jenyns. The debilitated frame of Mr. Bertram was exhausted by this last effort. Sir W. Scott. 

DEBILITATION:  The act or process of debilitating, or the condition of one who is debilitated; weakness. 

DEBILITY:  The state of being weak; weakness; feebleness; languor. The inconveniences of too strong a perspiration, which are debility, faintness, and sometimes sudden death. Arbuthnot.  Syn.  -- Debility, Infirmity, Imbecility. An infirmity belongs, for the most part, to particular members, and is often temporary, as of the eyes, etc. Debility is more general, and while it lasts impairs the ordinary functions of nature. Imbecility attaches to the whole frame, and renders it more or less powerless. Debility may be constitutional or may be the result or superinduced causes; Imbecility is always constitutional; infirmity is accidental, and results from sickness or a decay of the frame. These words, in their figurative uses, have the same distinctions; we speak of infirmity of will, debility of body, and an Imbecility which affects the whole man; but Imbecility is often used with specific reference to feebleness of mind. 

DEBIT:  A debt; an entry on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; -- mostly used adjectively; as, the debit side of an account. 

DEBIT:  To enter on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; as, to debit the amount of goods sold. 

DEBITOR:  A debtor. [Obs.] Shak. 

DEBITUMINIZATION:  The act of depriving of bitumen. 

DEBITUMINIZE:  To deprive of bitumen. 

DEBLAI:  The cavity from which the earth for parapets, etc. (remblai), is taken. 

DEBONAIR:  Characterized by courteousness, affability, or gentleness; of good appearance and manners; graceful; complaisant. Was never prince so meek and debonair. Spenser. 

DEBONAIRITY:  Debonairness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEBONAIRLY:  Courteously; elegantly. 

DEBONAIRNESS:  The quality of being debonair; good humor; gentleness; courtesy. Sterne. 

DEBOSH:  To debauch. [Obs.] "A deboshed lady." Beau. & Fl. 

DEBOSHMENT:  Debauchment. [Obs.] 

DEBOUCH:  To march out from a wood, defile, or other confined spot, into open ground; to issue. Battalions debouching on the plain. Prescott. 

DEBOUCHE:  A place for exit; an outlet; hence, a market for goods. The débouchés were ordered widened to afford easy egress. The Century. 

DEBOUCHURE:  The outward opening of a river, of a valley, or of a strait. 

DEBRIS:  Broken and detached fragments, taken collectively; especially, fragments detached from a rock or mountain, and piled up at the base.  2. Rubbish, especially such as results from the destruction of anything; remains; ruins. 

DEBRUISED:  Surmounted by an ordinary; as, a lion is debruised when a bend or other ordinary is placed over it, as in the cut. The lion of England and the lilies of France without the baton sinister, under which, according to the laws of heraldry, they where debruised in token of his illegitimate birth. Macaulay. 

DEBT:  An action at law to recover a certain specified sum of money alleged to be due. Burrill. Bond debt, Book debt, etc. See under Bond, Book, etc.  -- Debt of nature, death. 

DEBTED:  Indebted; obliged to. [R.] I stand debted to this gentleman. Shak. 

DEBTEE:  One to whom a debt is due; creditor; -- correlative to debtor. Blackstone. 

DEBTLESS:  Free from debt. Chaucer. 

DEBTOR:  One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative to creditor. [I 'll] bring your latter hazard back again, And thankfully rest debtor for the first. Shak. In Athens an insolvent debtor became slave to his creditor. Mitford. Debtors for our lives to you. Tennyson. 

DEBULLIATE:  To boil over. [Obs.] 

DEBULLITION:  A bubbling or boiling over. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEBURSE:  To disburse. [Obs.] Ludlow. 

DEBUSCOPE:  A modification of the kaleidoscope; -- used to reflect images so as to form beautiful designs. 

DEBUT:  A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance before the public, as of an actor or public speaker.  DEBUTANT; DEBUTANTE De`bu`tant", n.; fem. De`bu`tante" (. Etym: [F., p. pr. of débuter to have the first throw, to make one's début. See Début.]  A person who makes his (or her) first appearance before the public.  DECA- Dec"a-. Etym: [Cf. Ten.]  A prefix, from Gr. de`ka, signifying ten; specifically (Metric System), a prefix signifying the weight or measure that is ten times the principal unit. 

DECACERATA:  The division of Cephalopoda which includes the squids, cuttlefishes, and others having ten arms or tentacles; -- called also Decapoda. [Written also Decacera.] See Dibranchiata.  DECACHORD; DECACHORDON Dec"a*chord, Dec`a*chor"don, n. Etym: [Gr. deka`chordos tenstringed; de`ka ten + chordj` a string.]  1. An ancient Greek musical instrument of ten strings, resembling the harp.  2. Something consisting of ten parts. W. Watson. 

DECACUMINATED:  Having the point or top cut off. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DECAD:  A decade. Averill was a decad and a half his elder. Tennyson. 

DECADAL:  Pertaining to ten; consisting of tens. 

DECADE:  A group or division of ten; esp., a period of ten years; a decennium; as, a decade of years or days; a decade of soldiers; the second decade of Livy. [Written also decad.] During this notable decade of years. Gladstone.  DECADENCE; DECADENCY De*ca"dence, De*ca"den*cy, n. Etym: [LL. decadentia; L. de- + cadere to fall: cf. F. décadence. See Decay.]  A falling away; decay; deterioration; declension. "The old castle, where the family lived in their decadence.' Sir W. Scott. 

DECADENT:  Decaying; deteriorating. 

DECADIST:  A writer of a book divided into decades; as, Livy was a decadist. [R.] 

DECAGON:  A plane figure having ten sides and ten angles; any figure having ten angles. A regular decagon is one that has all its sides and angles equal. 

DECAGONAL:  Pertaining to a decagon; having ten sides.  DECAGRAM; DECAGRAMME Dec"a*gram, Dec"a*gramme, n. Etym: [F. décagramme; Gr. gramme. See Gram.]  A weight of the metric system; ten grams, equal to about 154.32 grains avoirdupois. 

DECAGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants characterized by having ten styles.  DECAGYNIAN; DECCAGYNOUS Dec`a*gyn"i*an, Dec*cag"y*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. décagyne.] (Bot.)  Belonging to the Decagynia; having ten styles. 

DECAHEDRAL:  Having ten sides. 

DECAHEDRON:  A solid figure or body inclosed by ten plane surfaces. [Written also, less correctly, decaedron.] 

DECALCIFICATION:  The removal of calcareous matter. 

DECALCIFY:  To deprive of calcareous matter; thus, to decalcify bones is to remove the stony part, and leave only the gelatin.  DECALCOMANIA; DECALCOMANIE De*cal`co*ma"ni*a, De*cal`co*ma"nie, n. Etym: [F. décalcomanie.]  The art or process of transferring pictures and designs to china, glass, marble, etc., and permanently fixing them thereto.  DECALITER; DECALITRE Dec"a*li`ter, Dec"a*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. décalitre; Gr. litre. See Liter.]  A measure of capacity in the metric system; a cubic volume of ten liters, equal to about 610.24 cubic inches, that is, 2.642 wine gallons. 

DECALOG:  Decalogue. 

DECALOGIST:  One who explains the decalogue. J. Gregory. 

DECALOGUE:  The Ten Commandments or precepts given by God to Moses on Mount Sinai, and originally written on two tables of stone. 

DECAMERON:  A celebrated collection of tales, supposed to be related in ten days; -- written in the 14th century, by Boccaccio, an Italian.  DECAMETER; DECAMETRE Dec"a*me`ter, Dec"a*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. décamètre; Gr. mètre. See Meter.]  A measure of length in the metric system; ten meters, equal to about 393.7 inches. 

DECAMPMENT:  Departure from a camp; a marching off. 

DECANAL:  Pertaining to a dean or deanery. His rectorial as well as decanal residence. Churton. Decanal side, the side of the choir on which the dean's tall is placed.  -- Decanal stall, the stall allotted to the dean in the choir, on the right or south side of the chancel. Shipley. 

DECANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants characterized by having ten stamens.  DECANDRIAN; DECANDROUS De*can"dri*an, De*can"drous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. décandre.] (Bot.)  Belonging to the Decandria; having ten stamens. 

DECANE:  A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H22, of the paraffin series, including several isomeric modifications. 

DECANGULAR:  Having ten angles. 

DECANI:  Used of the side of the choir on which the dean's stall is placed; decanal; -- correlative to cantoris; as, the decanal, or decani, side. 

DECANT:  To pour off gently, as liquor, so as not to disturb the sediment; or to pour from one vessel into another; as, to decant wine. 

DECANTATE:  To decant. [Obs.] 

DECANTATION:  The act of pouring off a clear liquor gently from its lees or sediment, or from one vessel into another. 

DECAPHYLLOUS:  Having ten leaves. 

DECAPITATION:  The act of beheading; beheading. 

DECAPOD:  A crustacean with ten feet or legs, as a crab; one of the Decapoda. Also used adjectively. 

DECAPODA:  The order of Crustacea which includes the shrimps, lobsters, crabs, etc.  Note: They have a carapace, covering and uniting the somites of the head and thorax and inclosing a gill chamber on each side, and usually have five (rarely six) pairs of legs. They are divided into two principal groups: Brachyura and Macrura. Some writers recognize a third (Anomura) intermediate between the others.  2. (Zoöl.)  A division of the dibranchiate cephalopods including the cuttlefishes and squids. See Decacera.  DECAPODAL; DECAPODOUS Dec*ap"o*dal, Dec*ap"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)  Belonging to the decapods; having ten feet; ten-footed. 

DECARBONATE:  To deprive of carbonic acid. 

DECARBONIZATION:  The action or process of depriving a substance of carbon. 

DECARBONIZE:  To deprive of carbon; as, to decarbonize steel; to decarbonize the blood. Decarbonized iron. See Malleable iron.  -- Decarbonized steel, homogenous wrought iron made by a steel process, as that of Bessemer; ingot iron. 

DECARBONIZER:  He who, or that which, decarbonizes a substance. 

DECARBURIZATION:  The act, process, or result of decarburizing. 

DECARBURIZE:  To deprive of carbon; to remove the carbon from. 

DECARD:  To discard. [Obs.] You have cast those by, decarded them. J. Fletcher. 

DECARDINALIZE:  To depose from the rank of cardinal. 

DECASTERE:  A measure of capacity, equal to ten steres, or ten cubic meters. 

DECASTICH:  A poem consisting of ten lines. 

DECASTYLE:  Having ten columns in front; -- said of a portico, temple, etc.  -- n.  A portico having ten pillars or columns in front. 

DECASYLLABIC:  Having, or consisting of, ten syllables. 

DECATHLON:  In the modern Olympic Games, a composite contest consisting of a 100-meter run, a broad jump, putting the shot, a running high-jump, a 400-meter run, throwing the discus, a 100-meter hurdle race, pole vaulting, throwing the javelin, and a 1500-meter run. 

DECATOIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, decane. 

DECAY:  To pass gradually from a sound, prosperous, or perfect state, to one of imperfection, adversity, or dissolution; to waste away; to decline; to fail; to become weak, corrupt, or disintegrated; to rot; to perish; as, a tree decays; fortunes decay; hopes decay. Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth accumulates and men decay. Goldsmith. 

DECAYED:  Fallen, as to physical or social condition; affected with decay; rotten; as, decayed vegetation or vegetables; a decayed fortune or gentleman.  -- De*cay"ed*ness, n. 

DECAYER:  A causer of decay. [R.] 

DECEASE:  Departure, especially departure from this life; death. His decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. Luke ix. 31. And I, the whilst you mourn for his decease, Will with my mourning plaints your plaint increase. Spenser.  Syn.  -- Death; departure; dissolution; demise; release. See Death. 

DECEASE:  To depart from this life; to die; to pass away. She's dead, deceased, she's dead. Shak. When our summers have deceased. Tennyson. Inasmuch as he carries the malignity and the lie with him, he so far deceases from nature. Emerson. 

DECEASED:  Passed away; dead; gone. The deceased, the dead person. 

DECEDE:  To withdraw. [Obs.] Fuller. 

DECEDENT:  Removing; departing. Ash. 

DECEDENT:  A deceased person. Bouvier. 

DECEIT:  Any trick, collusion, contrivance, false representation, or underhand practice, used to defraud another. When injury is thereby effected, an action of deceit, as it called, lies for compensation.  Syn.  -- Deception; fraud; imposition; duplicity; trickery; guile; falsifying; double-dealing; stratagem. See Deception. 

DECEITFUL:  Full of, or characterized by, deceit; serving to mislead or insnare; trickish; fraudulent; cheating; insincere. Harboring foul deceitful thoughts. Shak. 

DECEITFULLY:  With intent to deceive. 

DECEITLESS:  Free from deceit. Bp. Hall. 

DECEIVABLY:  In a deceivable manner. 

DECEIVER:  One who deceives; one who leads into error; a cheat; an impostor. The deceived and the deceiver are his. Job xii. 16.  Syn.  -- Deceiver, Impostor. A deceiver operates by stealth and in private upon individuals; an impostor practices his arts on the community at large. The one succeeds by artful falsehoods, the other by bold assumption. The faithless friend and the fickle lover are deceivers; the false prophet and the pretended prince are impostors. 

DECEMBRIST:  One of those who conspired for constitutional government against the Emperor Nicholas on his accession to the throne at the death of Alexander I., in December, 1825; -- called also Dekabrist.  He recalls the history of the decembrists . . . that gallant band of revolutionists. G. Kennan. 

DECEMDENTATE:  Having ten points or teeth. 

DECEMFID:  Cleft into ten parts. 

DECEMLOCULAR:  Having ten cells for seeds. 

DECEMPEDAL:  Having ten feet; decapodal. [R.] Bailey. 

DECEMVIRAL:  Pertaining to the decemvirs in Rome. 

DECEMVIRSHIP:  The office of a decemvir. Holland. 

DECENCE:  Decency. [Obs.] Dryden. 

DECENE:  One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H20, of the ethylene series. 

DECENNARY:  A tithing consisting of ten neighboring families. Burrill. 

DECENNIAL:  Consisting of ten years; happening every ten years; as, a decennial period; decennial games. Hallam. 

DECENNIAL:  A tenth year or tenth anniversary. 

DECENNIUM:  A period of ten years. "The present decennium." Hallam. "The last decennium of Chaucer's life." A. W. Ward.  DECENNOVAL; DECENNOVARY De*cen"no*val, De*cen"no*va*ry, a. Etym: [L. decem ten + novem nine.]  Pertaining to the number nineteen; of nineteen years. [R.] Holder. 

DECENTRALIZATION:  The action of decentralizing, or the state of being decentralized. "The decentralization of France." J. P. Peters. 

DECENTRALIZE:  To prevent from centralizing; to cause to withdraw from the center or place of concentration; to divide and distribute (what has been united or concentrated); -- esp. said of authority, or the administration of public affairs. 

DECEPTIBLE:  Capable of being deceived; deceivable. Sir T. Browne.  -- De*cep`ti*bil"i*ty (, n. 

DECEPTIOUS:  Tending deceive; delusive. [R.] As if those organs had deceptious functions. Shak. 

DECEPTIVE:  Tending to deceive; having power to mislead, or impress with false opinions; as, a deceptive countenance or appearance. Language altogether deceptive, and hiding the deeper reality from our eyes. Trench. Deceptive cadence (Mus.), a cadence on the subdominant, or in some foreign key, postponing the final close. 

DECEPTIVELY:  In a manner to deceive. 

DECEPTIVENESS:  The power or habit of deceiving; tendency or aptness to deceive. 

DECEPTIVITY:  Deceptiveness; a deception; a sham. [R.] Carlyle. 

DECEPTORY:  Deceptive. [R.] 

DECERN:  To decree; to adjudge. 

DECERNITURE:  A decree or sentence of a court. Stormonth. 

DECERP:  To pluck off; to crop; to gather. [Obs.] 

DECERPT:  Plucked off or away. [Obs.] 

DECERPTIBLE:  That may be plucked off, cropped, or torn away. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DECERTATION:  Contest for mastery; contention; strife. [R.] Arnway. 

DECESSION:  Departure; decrease; -- opposed to accesion. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

DECHARM:  To free from a charm; to disenchant. 

DECHRISTIANIZE:  To turn from, or divest of, Christianity. 

DECIARE:  A measure of area, the tenth part of an are; ten square meters. 

DECIDABLE:  Capable of being decided; determinable. 

DECIDE:  To determine; to form a definite opinion; to come to a conclusion; to give decision; as, the court decided in favor of the defendant. Who shall decide, when doctors disagree Pope. 

DECIDEDLY:  In a decided manner; indisputably; clearly; thoroughly. 

DECIDEMENT:  Means of forming a decision. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

DECIDENCE:  A falling off. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

DECIDER:  One who decides. 

DECIDUA:  The inner layer of the wall of the uterus, which envelops the embryo, forms a part of the placenta, and is discharged with it. 

DECIDUATA:  A group of Mammalia in which a decidua is thrown off with, or after, the fetus, as in the human species. 

DECIDUATE:  Possessed of, or characterized by, a decidua. 

DECIDUITY:  Deciduousness. [R.] 

DECIDUOUS:  Falling off, or subject to fall or be shed, at a certain season, or a certain stage or interval of growth, as leaves (except of evergreens) in autumn, or as parts of animals, such as hair, teeth, antlers, etc.; also, shedding leaves or parts at certain seasons, stages, or intervals; as, deciduous trees; the deciduous membrane. 

DECIDUOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being deciduous.  DECIGRAM; DECIGRAMME Dec"i*gram, Dec"i*gramme, n. Etym: [F. décigramme; pref. déci- tenth (fr. L. decimus) + gramme.]  A weight in the metric system; one tenth of a gram, equal to 1.5432 grains avoirdupois.  DECIL; DECILE Dec"il, Dec"ile, n. Etym: [F. décil, fr. L. decem tendecile.] (Astrol.)  An aspect or position of two planets, when they are distant from each other a tenth part of the zodiac, or 36º.  DECILITER; DECILITRE Dec"i*li`ter, Dec"i*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. décilitre; pref. déci- tenth (L. decimus) + litre. See Liter.]  A measure of capacity or volume in the metric system; one tenth of a liter, equal to 6.1022 cubic inches, or 3.38 fluid ounces. 

DECILLION:  According to the English notation, a million involved to the tenth power, or a unit with sixty ciphers annexed; according to the French and American notation, a thousand involved to the eleventh power, or a unit with thirty-three ciphers annexed. [See the Note under Numeration.] 

DECILLIONTH:  Pertaining to a decillion, or to the quotient of unity divided by a decillion. 

DECIMAL:  Of or pertaining to decimals; numbered or proceeding by tens; having a tenfold increase or decrease, each unit being ten times the unit next smaller; as, decimal notation; a decimal coinage. Decimal arithmetic, the common arithmetic, in which numeration proceeds by tens.  -- Decimal fraction, a fraction in which the denominator is some power of 10, as -- Decimal point, a dot or full stop at the left of a decimal fraction. The figures at the left of the point represent units or whole numbers, as 1.05. 

DECIMAL:  A number expressed in the scale of tens; specifically, and almost exclusively, used as synonymous with a decimal fraction. Circulating, or Circulatory, decimal, a decimal fraction in which the same figure, or set of figures, is constantly repeated; as, 0.354354354; -- called also recurring decimal, repeating decimal, and repetend. 

DECIMALISM:  The system of a decimal currency, decimal weights, measures, etc. 

DECIMALIZE:  To reduce to a decimal system; as, to decimalize the currency.  -- Dec`i*mal*i*za"tion, n. 

DECIMALLY:  By tens; by means of decimals. 

DECIMATOR:  One who decimates. South. 

DECIME:  A French coin, the tenth part of a franc, equal to about two cents.  DECIMETER; DECIMETRE Dec"i*me`ter, Dec"i*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. décimètre; pref. déci- tenth (fr. L. decimus) + mètre. See Meter.]  A measure of length in the metric system; one tenth of a meter, equal to 3.937 inches. 

DECIMOSEXTO:  A book consisting of sheets, each of which is folded into sixteen leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of book; -- usually written 16mo or 16º. 

DECIMOSEXTO:  Having sixteen leaves to a sheet; as, a decimosexto form, book, leaf, size. 

DECINE:  One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H15, of the acetylene series; -- called also decenylene. 

DECIPHERABLE:  Capable of being deciphered; as, old writings not decipherable. 

DECIPHERER:  One who deciphers. 

DECIPHERESS:  A woman who deciphers. 

DECIPHERMENT:  The act of deciphering. 

DECIPIENCY:  State of being deceived; hallucination. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DECIPIUM:  A supposed rare element, said to be associated with cerium, yttrium, etc., in the mineral samarskite, and more recently called samarium. Symbol Dp. See Samarium. 

DECISORY:  Able to decide or determine; having a tendency to decide. [R.] 

DECISTERE:  The tenth part of the stere or cubic meter, equal to 3.531 cubic feet. See Stere. 

DECITIZENIZE:  To deprive of the rights of citizenship. [R.] We have no law -- as the French have -- to decitizenize a citizen. Edw. Bates. 

DECIVILIZE:  To reduce from civilization to a savage state. [R.] Blackwood's Mag. 

DECK:  The upper part or top of a mansard roof or curb roof when made nearly flat.  3. (Railroad)  The roof of a passenger car.  4. A pack or set of playing cards. The king was slyly fingered from the deck. Shak.  5. A heap or store. [Obs.] Who . . . hath such trinkets Ready in the deck. Massinger. Between decks. See under Between.  -- Deck bridge (Railroad Engineering), a bridge which carries the track upon the upper chords; -- distinguished from a through bridge, which carries the track upon the lower chords, between the girders.  -- Deck curb (Arch.), a curb supporting a deck in roof construction.  -- Deck floor (Arch.), a floor which serves also as a roof, as of a belfry or balcony.  -- Deck hand, a sailor hired to help on the vessel's deck, but not expected to go aloft.  -- Deck molding (Arch.), the molded finish of the edge of a deck, making the junction with the lower slope of the roof.  -- Deck roof (Arch.), a nearly flat roof which is not surmounted by parapet walls.  -- Deck transom (Shipbuilding), the transom into which the deck is framed.  -- To clear the decks (Naut.), to remove every unnecessary incumbrance in preparation for battle; to prepare for action.  -- To sweep the deck (Card Playing), to clear off all the stakes on the table by winning them. 

DECKEL:  Same as Deckle. 

DECKLE:  A separate thin wooden frame used to form the border of a hand mold, or a curb of India rubber or other material which rests on, and forms the edge of, the mold in a paper machine and determines the width of the paper. [Spelt also deckel, and deckle.]  DECKLE EDGE Dec"kle edge`.  The rough, untrimmed edge of paper left by the deckle; also, a rough edge in imitation of this.  DECKLE-EDGED Dec"kle-edged`, a.  Having a deckle edge; as, deckle-edged paper; a deckle-edged book. 

DECLAIMANT:  A declaimer. [R.] 

DECLAIMER:  One who declaims; an haranguer. 

DECLAMATOR:  A declaimer. [R.] Sir T. Elyot. 

DECLARABLE:  Capable of being declared. Sir T. Browne. 

DECLARANT:  One who declares. Abbott. 

DECLARATION:  That part of the process in which the plaintiff sets forth in order and at large his cause of complaint; the narration of the plaintiff's case containing the count, or counts. See Count, n., 3. Declaration of Independence. (Amer. Hist.) See under Independence.  -- Declaration of rights. (Eng. Hist) See Bill of rights, under Bill.  -- Declaration of trust (Law), a paper subscribed by a grantee of property, acknowledging that he holds it in trust for the purposes and upon the terms set forth. Abbott. 

DECLARATIVE:  Making declaration, proclamation, or publication; explanatory; assertive; declaratory. "Declarative laws." Baker. The "vox populi," so declarative on the same side. Swift. 

DECLARATIVELY:  By distinct assertion; not impliedly; in the form of a declaration. The priest shall expiate it, that is, declaratively. Bates. 

DECLARATOR:  A form of action by which some right or interest is sought to be judicially declared. 

DECLARATORILY:  In a declaratory manner. 

DECLARATORY:  Making declaration, explanation, or exhibition; making clear or manifest; affirmative; expressive; as, a clause declaratory of the will of the legislature. Declaratory act (Law), an act or statute which sets forth more clearly, and declares what is, the existing law. 

DECLARE:  To make full statement of, as goods, etc., for the purpose of paying taxes, duties, etc. To declare off, to recede from an agreement, undertaking, contract, etc.; to renounce.  -- To declare one's self, to avow one's opinion; to show openly what one thinks, or which side he espouses. 

DECLARE:  To state the plaintiff's cause of action at law in a legal form; as, the plaintiff declares in trespass. 

DECLAREDLY:  Avowedly; explicitly. 

DECLAREDNESS:  The state of being declared. 

DECLAREMENT:  Declaration. [Obs.] 

DECLARER:  One who makes known or proclaims; that which exhibits. Udall. 

DECLASS:  To remove from a class; to separate or degrade from one's class.  North Am. Rev. 

DECLENSIONAL:  Belonging to declension. Declensional and syntactical forms. M. Arnold. 

DECLINABLE:  Capable of being declined; admitting of declension or inflection; as, declinable parts of speech. 

DECLINAL:  Declining; sloping. 

DECLINATE:  Bent downward or aside; (Bot.) bending downward in a curve; declined. 

DECLINATION:  The angular distance of any object from the celestial equator, either northward or southward.  6. (Dialing)  The arc of the horizon, contained between the vertical plane and the prime vertical circle, if reckoned from the east or west, or between the meridian and the plane, reckoned from the north or south.  7. (Gram.)  The act of inflecting a word; declension. See Decline, v. t., 4. Angle of declination, the angle made by a descending line, or plane, with a horizontal plane.  -- Circle of declination, a circle parallel to the celestial equator.  -- Declination compass (Physics), a compass arranged for finding the declination of the magnetic needle.  -- Declination of the compass or needle, the horizontal angle which the magnetic needle makes with the true north-and-south line. 

DECLINATORY:  Containing or involving a declination or refusal, as of submission to a charge or sentence. Blackstone. Declinatory plea (O. Eng. Law), the plea of sanctuary or of benefit of clergy, before trial or conviction; -- now abolished. 

DECLINATURE:  The act of declining or refusing; as, the declinature of an office. 

DECLINE:  To inflect, or rehearse in order the changes of grammatical form of; as, to decline a noun or an adjective.  Note: Now restricted to such words as have case inflections; but formerly it was applied both to declension and conjugation. After the first declining of a noun and a verb. Ascham.  5. To run through from first to last; to repeat like a schoolboy declining a noun. [R.] Shak. 

DECLINE:  That period of a disorder or paroxysm when the symptoms begin to abate in violence; as, the decline of a fever.  3. A gradual sinking and wasting away of the physical faculties; any wasting disease, esp. pulmonary consumption; as, to die of a decline. Dunglison.  Syn.  -- Decline, Decay, Consumption. Decline marks the first stage in a downward progress; decay indicates the second stage, and denotes a tendency to ultimate destruction; consumption marks a steady decay from an internal exhaustion of strength. The health may experience a decline from various causes at any period of life; it is naturally subject to decay with the advance of old age; consumption may take place at almost any period of life, from disease which wears out the constitution. In popular language decline is often used as synonymous with consumption. By a gradual decline, states and communities lose their strength and vigor; by progressive decay, they are stripped of their honor, stability, and greatness; by a consumption of their resources and vital energy, they are led rapidly on to a completion of their existence. 

DECLINED:  Declinate. 

DECLINER:  He who declines or rejects. A studious decliner of honors. Evelyn. 

DECLINOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the declination of the magnetic needle. 

DECLINOUS:  Declinate.  DECLIVITOUS; DECLIVOUS De*cliv"i*tous, De*cli"vous, a.  Descending gradually; moderately steep; sloping; downhill. 

DECOCTIBLE:  Capable of being boiled or digested. 

DECOCTURE:  A decoction. [R.] 

DECOHERER:  A device for restoring a coherer to its normal condition after it has been affected by an electric wave, a process usually accomplished by some method of tapping or shaking, or by rotation of the coherer. 

DECOLLATE:  To sever from the neck; to behead; to decapitate. The decollated head of St. John the Baptist. Burke. 

DECOLLATED:  Decapitated; worn or cast off in the process of growth, as the apex of certain univalve shells. 

DECOLLETAGE:  The upper border or part of a décolleté corsage. 

DECOLLETE:  Leaving the neck and shoulders uncovered; cut low in the neck, or low-necked, as a dress. 

DECOLLING:  Beheading. [R.] By a speedy dethroning and decolling of the king. Parliamentary History (1648). 

DECOLOR:  To deprive of color; to bleach. 

DECOLORANT:  A substance which removes color, or bleaches. 

DECOLORATE:  Deprived of color. 

DECOLORATE:  To decolor. 

DECOLORATION:  The removal or absence of color. Ferrand. 

DECOLORIZE:  To deprive of color; to whiten. Turner.  -- De*col`or*i*za"tion, n. 

DECOMPLEX:  Repeatedly compound; made up of complex constituents. 

DECOMPOSABLE:  Capable of being resolved into constituent elements. 

DECOMPOSE:  To separate the constituent parts of; to resolve into original elements; to set free from previously existing forms of chemical combination; to bring to dissolution; to rot or decay. 

DECOMPOSE:  To become resolved or returned from existing combinations; to undergo dissolution; to decay; to rot. 

DECOMPOSED:  Separated or broken up; -- said of the crest of birds when the feathers are divergent. 

DECOMPOSITE:  See Decompound, a., 2. 

DECOMPOSITE:  Anything decompounded. Decomposites of three metals or more. Bacon. 

DECOMPOUND:  Several times compounded or divided, as a leaf or stem; decomposite. 

DECOMPOUND:  A decomposite. 

DECOMPOUNDABLE:  Capable of being decompounded. 

DECONCENTRATE:  To withdraw from concentration; to decentralize. [R.] 

DECONCENTRATION:  Act of deconcentrating. [R.] 

DECONCOCT:  To decompose. [R.] Fuller. 

DECONSECRATE:  To deprive of sacredness; to secularize.  -- De*con`se*cra"tion, n. 

DECORAMENT:  Ornament. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DECORATE:  To deck with that which is becoming, ornamental, or honorary; to adorn; to beautify; to embellish; as, to decorate the person; to decorate an edifice; to decorate a lawn with flowers; to decorate the mind with moral beauties; to decorate a hero with honors. Her fat neck was ornamented with jewels, rich bracelets decorated her arms. Thackeray.  Syn.  -- To adorn; embellish; ornament; beautify; grace. See Adorn. Decorated style (Arch.), a name given by some writers to the perfected English Gothic architecture; it may be considered as having flourished from about a. d. 1300 to a. d. 1375. 

DECORATION:  = Memorial Day. [U. S.] 

DECORATIVE:  Suited to decorate or embellish; adorning.  -- Dec"o*ra*tive*ness, n. Decorative art, fine art which has for its end ornamentation, rather than the representation of objects or events. 

DECORATOR:  One who decorates, adorns, or embellishes; specifically, an artisan whose business is the decoration of houses, esp. their interior decoration. 

DECORE:  To decorate; to beautify. [Obs.] To decore and beautify the house of God. E. Hall. 

DECOREMENT:  Ornament. [Obs.] 

DECOROUS:  Suitable to a character, or to the time, place, and occasion; marked with decorum; becoming; proper; seemly; befitting; as, a decorous speech; decorous behavior; a decorous dress for a judge. A decorous pretext the war. Motley. -- De*co"rous*ly, adv.  -- De*co"rous*ness, n. 

DECORTICATE:  To divest of the bark, husk, or exterior coating; to husk; to peel; to hull. "Great barley dried and decorticated." Arbuthnot. 

DECORTICATION:  The act of stripping off the bark, rind, hull, or outer coat. 

DECORTICATOR:  A machine for decorticating wood, hulling grain, etc.; also, an instrument for removing surplus bark or moss from fruit trees. 

DECORUM:  Propriety of manner or conduct; grace arising from suitableness of speech and behavior to one's own character, or to the place and occasion; decency of conduct; seemliness; that which is seemly or suitable. Negligent of the duties and decorums of his station. Hallam. If your master Would have a queen his beggar, you must tell him, That majesty, to keep decorum, must No less beg than a kingdom. Shak.  Syn.  -- Decorum, Dignity. Decorum, in accordance with its etymology, is that which is becoming in outward act or appearance; as, the decorum of a public assembly. Dignity springs from an inward elevation of soul producing a corresponding effect on the manners; as, dignity of personal appearance. 

DECOY:  To lead into danger by artifice; to lure into a net or snare; to entrap; to insnare; to allure; to entice; as, to decoy troops into an ambush; to decoy ducks into a net. Did to a lonely cot his steps decoy. Thomson. E'en while fashion's brightest arts decoy, The heart, distrusting, asks if this be joy. Goldsmith.  Syn.  -- To entice; tempt; allure; lure. See Allure. 

DECOY:  A duck used to lure wild ducks into a decoy; hence, a person employed to lure others into danger. Beau. & Fl. 

DECOYER:  One who decoys another.  DECOY-MAN De*coy"-man`, n.; pl. Decoy-men (.  A man employed in decoying wild fowl. 

DECREASE:  To grow less, -- opposed to increase; to be diminished gradually, in size, degree, number, duration, etc., or in strength, quality, or excellence; as, they days decrease in length from June to December. He must increase, but I must decrease. John iii. 30.  Syn.  -- To Decrease, Diminish. Things usually decrease or fall off by degrees, and from within, or through some cause which is imperceptible; as, the flood decreases; the cold decreases; their affection has decreased. Things commonly diminish by an influence from without, or one which is apparent; as, the army was diminished by disease; his property is diminishing through extravagance; their affection has diminished since their separation their separation. The turn of thought, however, is often such that these words may be interchanged. The olive leaf, which certainly them told The flood decreased. Drayton. Crete's ample fields diminish to our eye; Before the Boreal blasts the vessels fly. Pope. 

DECREASE:  To cause to grow less; to diminish gradually; as, extravagance decreases one's means. That might decrease their present store. Prior. 

DECREASELESS:  Suffering no decrease. [R.] It [the river] flows and flows, and yet will flow, Volume decreaseless to the final hour. A. Seward. 

DECREASING:  Becoming less and less; diminishing.  -- De*creas"ing*ly, adv. Decreasing series (Math.), a series in which each term is numerically smaller than the preceding term. 

DECREATION:  Destruction; -- opposed to creation. [R.] Cudworth. 

DECREE:  An edict or law made by a council for regulating any business within their jurisdiction; as, the decrees of ecclesiastical councils.  Syn.  -- Law; regulation; edict; ordinance. See Law. 

DECREE:  To make decrees; -- used absolutely. Father eternal! thine is to decree; Mine, both in heaven and earth to do thy will. Milton. 

DECREEABLE:  Capable of being decreed. 

DECREER:  One who decrees. J. Goodwin. 

DECREET:  The final judgment of the Court of Session, or of an inferior court, by which the question at issue is decided. 

DECREMENT:  A name given by Haüy to the successive diminution of the layers of molecules, applied to the faces of the primitive form, by which he supposed the secondary forms to be produced.  4. (Math.)  The quantity by which a variable is diminished. Equal decrement of life. (a) The decrease of life in a group of persons in which the assumed law of mortality is such that of a given large number of persons, all being now of the same age, an equal number shall die each consecutive year. (b) The decrease of life in a group of persons in which the assumed law of mortality is such that the ratio of those dying in a year to those living through the year is constant, being independent of the age of the persons. 

DECREPIT:  Broken down with age; wasted and enfeebled by the infirmities of old age; feeble; worn out. "Beggary or decrepit age." Milton. Already decrepit with premature old age. Motley.  Note: Sometimes incorrectly written decrepid. 

DECREPITATE:  To roast or calcine so as to cause a crackling noise; as, to decrepitate salt. 

DECREPITATE:  To crackle, as salt in roasting. 

DECREPITATION:  The act of decrepitating; a crackling noise, such as salt makes when roasting. 

DECREPITNESS:  Decrepitude. [R.] Barrow. 

DECREPITUDE:  The broken state produced by decay and the infirmities of age; infirm old age. 

DECRESCENDO:  With decreasing volume of sound; -- a direction to performers, either written upon the staff (abbreviated Dec., or Decresc.), or indicated by the sign. 

DECRESCENT:  Becoming less by gradual diminution; decreasing; as, a decrescent moon. 

DECRESCENT:  A crescent with the horns directed towards the sinister. Cussans. 

DECRETAL:  Appertaining to a decree; containing a decree; as, a decretal epistle. Ayliffe. 

DECRETAL:  An authoritative order or decree; especially, a letter of the pope, determining some point or question in ecclesiastical law. The decretals form the second part of the canon law.  2. (Canon Law)  The collection of ecclesiastical decrees and decisions made, by order of Gregory IX., in 1234, by St. Raymond of Pennafort. 

DECRETE:  A decree. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DECRETION:  A decrease. [Obs.] Pearson. 

DECRETIST:  One who studies, or professes the knowledge of, the decretals. 

DECRETIVE:  Having the force of a decree; determining. The will of God is either decretive or perceptive. Bates. 

DECRETORIAL:  Decretory; authoritative. Sir T. Browne. 

DECRETORILY:  In a decretory or definitive manner; by decree. 

DECREW:  To decrease. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DECRIAL:  A crying down; a clamorous censure; condemnation by censure. 

DECRIER:  One who decries. 

DECROWN:  To deprive of a crown; to discrown. [R.] Hakewill. 

DECRUSTATION:  The removal of a crust. 

DECRY:  To cry down; to censure as faulty, mean, or worthless; to clamor against; to blame clamorously; to discredit; to disparage. For small errors they whole plays decry. Dryden. Measures which are extolled by one half of the kingdom are naturally decried by the other. Addison.  Syn.  -- To Decry, Depreciate, Detract, Disparage. Decry and depreciate refer to the estimation of a thing, the former seeking to lower its value by clamorous censure, the latter by representing it as of little worth. Detract and disparage also refer to merit or value, which the former assails with caviling, insinuation, etc., while the latter willfully underrates and seeks to degrade it. Men decry their rivals and depreciate their measures. The envious detract from the merit of a good action, and disparage the motives of him who performs it. 

DECUBATION:  Act of lying down; decumbence. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

DECUBITUS:  An attitude assumed in lying down; as, the dorsal decubitus.  DECULASSEMENT; DECULASSMENT Dé`cu`lasse`ment", n. [F.] Also, sometimes, Anglicized Dec`u*lass"ment. (Ordnance)  An accidental blowing off of, or other serious damage to, the breechblock of a gun; also, a removal of the breechblock for the purpose of disabling the gun. 

DECUMAN:  Large; chief; -- applied to an extraordinary billow, supposed by some to be every tenth in order. [R.] Also used substantively. "Such decuman billows." Gauden. "The baffled decuman." Lowell.  DECUMBENCE; DECUMBENCY De*cum"bence, De*cum"ben*cy, n.  The act or posture of lying down. The ancient manner of decumbency. Sir T. Browne. 

DECUMBENT:  Reclining on the ground, as if too weak to stand, and tending to rise at the summit or apex; as, a decumbent stem. Gray. 

DECUMBENTLY:  In a decumbent posture. 

DECUMBITURE:  Aspect of the heavens at the time of taking to one's sick bed, by which the prognostics of recovery or death were made. 

DECUPLE:  Tenfold. [R.] 

DECUPLE:  A number ten times repeated. [R.] 

DECUPLE:  To make tenfold; to multiply by ten. [R.] 

DECURION:  A head or chief over ten; especially, an officer who commanded a division of ten soldiers. 

DECURIONATE:  The office of a decurion. 

DECURRENCE:  The act of running down; a lapse. [R.] Gauden. 

DECURRENT:  Extending downward; -- said of a leaf whose base extends downward and forms a wing along the stem.  -- De*cur"rent*ly, adv. 

DECURSION:  A flowing; also, a hostile incursion. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

DECURSIVE:  Running down; decurrent. 

DECURSIVELY:  In a decursive manner. Decursively pinnate (Bot.), having the leaflets decurrent, or running along the petiole; -- said of a leaf. 

DECURT:  To cut short; to curtail. [Obs.] Bale. 

DECURTATION:  Act of cutting short. [Obs.] 

DECURY:  A set or squad of ten men under a decurion. Sir W. Raleigh. 

DECUSSATE:  To cross at an acute angle; to cut or divide in the form of X; to intersect; -- said of lines in geometrical figures, rays of light, nerves, etc.  DECUSSATE; DECUSSATED De*cus"sate, De*cus"sa*ted, a.  1. Crossed; intersected.  2. (Bot.)  Growing in pairs, each of which is at right angles to the next pair above or below; as, decussated leaves or branches.  3. (Rhet.)  Consisting of two rising and two falling clauses, placed in alternate opposition to each other; as, a decussated period. 

DECUSSATELY:  In a decussate manner. 

DECUSSATION:  Act of crossing at an acute angle, or state of being thus crossed; an intersection in the form of an X; as, the decussation of lines, nerves, etc. 

DECUSSATIVE:  Intersecting at acute angles. Sir T. Browne. 

DECUSSATIVELY:  Crosswise; in the form of an X. "Anointed decussatively." Sir T. Browne. 

DECYL:  A hydrocarbon radical, C10H21, never existing alone, but regarded as the characteristic constituent of a number of compounds of the paraffin series. 

DECYLIC:  Allied to, or containing, the radical decyl. 

DEDALIAN:  See Dædalian. 

DEDALOUS:  See Dædalous. 

DEDANS:  A division, at one end of a tennis court, for spectators. 

DEDE:  Dead. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEDECORATE:  To bring to shame; to disgrace. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEDECORATION:  Disgrace; dishonor. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEDECOROUS:  Disgraceful; unbecoming. [R.] Bailey. 

DEDENTITION:  The shedding of teeth. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

DEDICATE:  Dedicated; set apart; devoted; consecrated. "Dedicate to nothing temporal." Shak.  Syn.  -- Devoted; consecrated; addicted. 

DEDICATEE:  One to whom a thing is dedicated; -- correlative to dedicator. 

DEDICATOR:  One who dedicates; more especially, one who inscribes a book to the favor of a patron, or to one whom he desires to compliment. 

DEDICATORIAL:  Dedicatory. 

DEDICATORY:  Constituting or serving as a dedication; complimental. "An epistle dedicatory." Dryden. 

DEDICATORY:  Dedication. [R.] Milton. 

DEDIMUS:  A writ to commission private persons to do some act in place of a judge, as to examine a witness, etc. Bouvier. 

DEDITION:  The act of yielding; surrender. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

DEDOLENT:  Feeling no compunction; apathetic. [R.] Hallywell. 

DEDUCEMENT:  Inference; deduction; thing deduced. [R.] Dryden. 

DEDUCIBILITY:  Deducibleness. 

DEDUCIBLENESS:  The quality of being deducible; deducibility. 

DEDUCIBLY:  By deduction. 

DEDUCIVE:  That deduces; inferential. 

DEDUCTIVE:  Of or pertaining to deduction; capable of being deduced from premises; deducible. All knowledge of causes is deductive. Glanvill. Notions and ideas . . . used in a deductive process. Whewell. 

DEDUCTIVELY:  By deduction; by way of inference; by consequence. Sir T. Browne. 

DEDUCTOR:  The pilot whale or blackfish. 

DEDUIT:  Delight; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEDUPLICATION:  The division of that which is morphologically one organ into two or more, as the division of an organ of a plant into a pair or cluster. 

DEED:  Dead. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEED:  A sealed instrument in writing, on paper or parchment, duly executed and delivered, containing some transfer, bargain, or contract.  Note: The term is generally applied to conveyances of real estate, and it is the prevailing doctrine that a deed must be signed as well as sealed, though at common law signing was formerly not necessary. Blank deed, a printed form containing the customary legal phraseology, with blank spaces for writing in names, dates, boundaries, etc.  6. Performance; -- followed by of. [Obs.] Shak. In deed, in fact; in truth; verily. See Indeed. 

DEED:  To convey or transfer by deed; as, he deeded all his estate to his eldest son. [Colloq. U. S.] 

DEEDFUL:  Full of deeds or exploits; active; stirring. [R.] "A deedful life." Tennyson. 

DEEDLESS:  Not performing, or not having performed, deeds or exploits; inactive. Deedless in his tongue. Shak.  DEED POLL Deed" poll`. (Law)  A deed of one part, or executed by only one party, and distinguished from an indenture by having the edge of the parchment or paper cut even, or polled as it was anciently termed, instead of being indented. Burrill. 

DEEDY:  Industrious; active. [R.] Cowper. 

DEEM:  Opinion; judgment. [Obs.] Shak. 

DEEMSTER:  A judge in the Isle of Man who decides controversies without process. Cowell. 

DEEP:  To a great depth; with depth; far down; profoundly; deeply. Deep-versed in books, and shallow in himself. Milton. Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring. Pope.  Note: Deep, in its usual adverbial senses, is often prefixed to an adjective; as, deep-chested, deep-cut, deep-seated, deep-toned, deep- voiced, "deep-uddered kine." 

DEEPEN:  To become deeper; as, the water deepens at every cast of the lead; the plot deepens. His blood-red tresses deepening in the sun. Byron.  DEEP-FET Deep"-fet`, a.  Deeply fetched or drawn. [Obs.] "Deep-fet groans." Shak.  DEEP-LAID Deep"-laid`, a.  Laid deeply; formed with cunning and sagacity; as, deep-laid plans. 

DEEPLY:  Having a loud and sonorous voice. "Deep-mouthed dogs." Dryden. 

DEEPNESS:  Profoundly book-learned. "Great writers and deep-read men." L'Estrange.  DEEP-SEA Deep"-sea`, a.  Of or pertaining to the deeper parts of the sea; as, a deep-sea line (i. e., a line to take soundings at a great depth); deep-sea lead; deep-sea soundings, explorations, etc.  DEEP-WAISTED Deep"-waist`ed, a. (Naut.)  Having a deep waist, as when, in a ship, the poop and forecastle are much elevated above the deck. 

DEER:  A ruminant of the genus Cervus, of many species, and of related genera of the family Cervidæ. The males, and in some species the females, have solid antlers, often much branched, which are shed annually. Their flesh, for which they are hunted, is called venison.  Note: The deer hunted in England is Cervus elaphus, called also stag or red deer; the fallow deer is C. dama; the common American deer is C. Virginianus; the blacktailed deer of Western North America is C. Columbianus; and the mule deer of the same region is C. macrotis. See Axis, Fallow deer, Mule deer, Reindeer.  Note: Deer is much used adjectively, or as the first part of a compound; as, deerkiller, deerslayer, deerslaying, deer hunting, deer stealing, deerlike, etc. Deer mouse (Zoöl.), the white-footed mouse (Hesperomys leucopus) of America.  -- Small deer, petty game, not worth pursuing; -- used metaphorically. (See citation from Shakespeare under the first definition, above.) "Minor critics . . . can find leisure for the chase of such small deer." G. P. Marsh. 

DEERBERRY:  A shrub of the blueberry group (Vaccinium stamineum); also, its bitter, greenish white berry; -- called also squaw huckleberry. 

DEERGRASS:  An American genus (Rhexia) of perennial herbs, with opposite leaves, and showy flowers (usually bright purple), with four petals and eight stamens, -- the only genus of the order Melastomaceæ inhabiting a temperate clime. 

DEERHOUND:  One of a large and fleet breed of hounds used in hunting deer; a staghound. 

DEERLET:  A chevrotain. See Kanchil, and Napu.  DEER-NECK Deer"-neck`, n.  A deerlike, or thin, ill-formed neck, as of a horse. 

DEERSKIN:  The skin of a deer, or the leather which is made from it. Hakluyt. Longfellow. 

DEERSTALKER:  One who practices deerstalking. 

DEERSTALKING:  The hunting of deer on foot, by stealing upon them unawares.  DEER'S-TONGUE Deer's"-tongue`, n. (Bot.)  A plant (Liatris odoratissima) whose fleshy leaves give out a fragrance compared to vanilla. Wood. 

DEES:  Dice. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEES:  A dais. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEESIS:  An invocation of, or address to, the Supreme Being. 

DEESS:  A goddess. [Obs.] Croft. 

DEEV:  See Dev. 

DEFACE:  To destroy; to make null. [Obs.] [Profane scoffing] doth . . . deface the reverence of religion. Bacon. For all his power was utterly defaste [defaced]. Spenser.  Syn.  -- See Efface. 

DEFACER:  One who, or that which, defaces or disfigures.  DE FACTO De` fac"to. Etym: [L.]  Actually; in fact; in reality; as, a king de facto, -- distinguished from a king de jure, or by right. 

DEFAIL:  To cause fail. [Obs.] 

DEFAILANCE:  Failure; miscarriage. [Obs.] Possibility of defailance in degree or continuance. Comber. 

DEFAILURE:  Failure. [Obs.] Barrow. 

DEFALCATE:  To cut off; to take away or deduct a part of; -- used chiefly of money, accounts, rents, income, etc. To show what may be practicably and safely defalcated from the [the estimates]. Burke. 

DEFALCATE:  To commit defalcation; to embezzle money held in trust. "Some partner defalcating, or the like." Carlyle. 

DEFALCATOR:  A defaulter or embezzler. [Modern] 

DEFALK:  To lop off; to bate. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

DEFAMATION:  Act of injuring another's reputation by any slanderous communication, written or oral; the wrong of maliciously injuring the good name of another; slander; detraction; calumny; aspersion.  Note: In modern usage, written defamation bears the title of libel, and oral defamation that of slander. Burrill. 

DEFAMATORY:  Containing defamation; injurious to reputation; calumnious; slanderous; as, defamatory words; defamatory writings. 

DEFAME:  Dishonor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEFAMER:  One who defames; a slanderer; a detractor; a calumniator. 

DEFAMINGLY:  In a defamatory manner. 

DEFAMOUS:  Defamatory. [Obs.] 

DEFATIGABLE:  Capable of being wearied or tired out. [R.] Glanvill. 

DEFATIGATE:  To weary or tire out; to fatigue. [R.] Sir T. Herbert. 

DEFATIGATION:  Weariness; fatigue. [R.] Bacon. 

DEFAULT:  A neglect of, or failure to take, some step necessary to secure the benefit of law, as a failure to appear in court at a day assigned, especially of the defendant in a suit when called to make answer; also of jurors, witnesses, etc. In default of, in case of failure or lack of. Cooks could make artificial birds and fishes in default of the real ones. Arbuthnot. -- To suffer a default (Law), to permit an action to be called without appearing to answer. 

DEFAULT:  To call a defendant or other party whose duty it is to be present in court, and make entry of his default, if he fails to appear; to enter a default against.  3. To leave out of account; to omit. [Obs.] Defaulting unnecessary and partial discourses. Hales. 

DEFEASANCE:  A condition, relating to a deed, which being performed, the deed is defeated or rendered void; or a collateral deed, made at the same time with a feoffment, or other conveyance, containing conditions, on the performance of which the estate then created may be defeated.  Note: Mortgages were usually made in this manner in former times, but the modern practice is to include the conveyance and the defeasance in the same deed. 

DEFEASANCED:  Liable to defeasance; capable of being made void or forfeited. 

DEFEASIBLE:  Capable of being annulled or made void; as, a defeasible title.  -- De*fea"si*ble*ness, n. 

DEFEATURED:  Changed in features; deformed. [R.] Features when defeatured in the . . . way I have described. De Quincey. 

DEFECATE:  Freed from anything that can pollute, as dregs, lees, etc.; refined; purified. Till the soul be defecate from the dregs of sense. Bates. 

DEFECATION:  The act or process of voiding excrement. 

DEFECATOR:  That which cleanses or purifies; esp., an apparatus for removing the feculencies of juices and sirups. Knight. 

DEFECT:  To fail; to become deficient. [Obs.] "Defected honor." Warner. 

DEFECT:  To injure; to damage. "None can my life defect." [R.] Troubles of Q. Elizabeth (1639). 

DEFECTIBILITY:  Deficiency; imperfection. [R.] Ld. Digby. Jer. Taylor. 

DEFECTIBLE:  Liable to defect; imperfect. [R.] "A defectible understanding." Jer. Taylor. 

DEFECTION:  Act of abandoning a person or cause to which one is bound by allegiance or duty, or to which one has attached himself; desertion; failure in duty; a falling away; apostasy; backsliding. "Defection and falling away from God." Sir W. Raleigh. The general defection of the whole realm. Sir J. Davies. 

DEFECTIONIST:  One who advocates or encourages defection. 

DEFECTIOUS:  Having defects; imperfect. [Obs.] "Some one defectious piece." Sir P. Sidney. 

DEFECTIVE:  Lacking some of the usual forms of declension or conjugation; as, a defective noun or verb.  -- De*fect"ive*ly, adv.  -- De*fect"ive*ness, n. 

DEFECTUOSITY:  Great imperfection. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

DEFECTUOUS:  Full of defects; imperfect. [Obs.] Barrow. 

DEFEDATION:  The act of making foul; pollution. [Obs.] 

DEFENCE:  See Defense. 

DEFEND:  To deny the right of the plaintiff in regard to (the suit, or the wrong charged); to oppose or resist, as a claim at law; to contest, as a suit. Burrill.  Syn.  -- To Defend, Protect. To defend is literally to ward off; to protect is to cover so as to secure against approaching danger. We defend those who are attacked; we protect those who are liable to injury or invasion. A fortress is defended by its guns, and protected by its wall. As birds flying, so will the Lord of hosts defend Jerusalem; defending also he will deliver it. Is. xxxi. 5. Leave not the faithful side That gave thee being, still shades thee and protects. Milton. 

DEFENDABLE:  Capable of being defended; defensible. [R.] 

DEFENDANT:  A person required to make answer in an action or suit; -- opposed to plaintiff. Abbott.  Note: The term is applied to any party of whom a demand is made in court, whether the party denies and defends the claim, or admits it, and suffers a default; also to a party charged with a criminal offense. 

DEFENDEE:  One who is defended. [R. & Ludicrous] 

DEFENDER:  One who defends; one who maintains, supports, protects, or vindicates; a champion; an advocate; a vindicator. Provinces . . . left without their ancient and puissant defenders. Motley. 

DEFENDRESS:  A female defender. [R.] Defendress of the faith. Stow. 

DEFENSATIVE:  That which serves to protect or defend.  DEFENSE; DEFENCE De*fense", De*fence", n. Etym: [F. défense, OF. defense, fem., defens, masc., fr. L. defensa (cf. Fence.]  1. The act of defending, or the state of being defended; protection, as from violence or danger. In cases of defense 't is best to weigh The enemy more mighty than he seems. Shak.  2. That which defends or protects; anything employed to oppose attack, ward off violence or danger, or maintain security; a guard; a protection. War would arise in defense of the right. Tennyson. God, the widow's champion and defense. Shak.  3. Protecting plea; vindication; justification. Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defense. Acts xxii. 1.  4. (Law)  The defendant's answer or plea; an opposing or denial of the truth or validity of the plaintiff's or prosecutor's case; the method of proceeding adopted by the defendant to protect himself against the plaintiff's action.  5. Act or skill in making defense; defensive plan or policy; practice in self defense, as in fencing, boxing, etc. A man of great defense. Spenser. By how much defense is better than no skill. Shak.  6. Prohibition; a prohibitory ordinance. [Obs.] Severe defenses . . . against wearing any linen under a certain breadth. Sir W. Temple. 

DEFENSE:  To furnish with defenses; to fortify. [Obs.] [Written also defence.] Better manned and more strongly defensed. Hales. 

DEFENSELESS:  Destitute of defense; unprepared to resist attack; unable to oppose; unprotected.  -- De*fense"less*ly, adv.  -- De*fense"less*ness, n. 

DEFENSER:  Defender. [Obs.] Foxe. 

DEFENSIBILITY:  Capability of being defended. 

DEFENSIBLENESS:  Capability of being defended; defensibility. Priestley. 

DEFENSIVE:  That which defends; a safeguard. Wars preventive, upon just fears, are true defensive. Bacon. To be on the defensive, To stand on the defensive, to be or stand in a state or posture of defense or resistance, in opposition to aggression or attack. 

DEFENSIVELY:  On the defensive. 

DEFENSOR:  A defender or an advocate in court; a guardian or protector.  3. (Eccl.)  The patron of a church; an officer having charge of the temporal affairs of a church. 

DEFENSORY:  Tending to defend; defensive; as, defensory preparations. 

DEFER:  To put off; to postpone to a future time; to delay the execution of; to delay; to withhold. Defer the spoil of the city until night. Shak. God . . . will not long defer To vindicate the glory of his name. Milton. 

DEFER:  To put off; to delay to act; to wait. Pius was able to defer and temporize at leisure. J. A. Symonds. 

DEFER:  To yield deference to the wishes of another; to submit to the opinion of another, or to authority; -- with to. The house, deferring to legal right, acquiesced. Bancroft. 

DEFERENCE:  A yielding of judgment or preference from respect to the wishes or opinion of another; submission in opinion; regard; respect; complaisance. Deference to the authority of thoughtful and sagacious men. Whewell. Deference is the most complicate, the most indirect, and the most elegant of all compliments. Shenstone.  Syn.  -- Deference, Reverence, Respect. Deference marks an inclination to yield one's opinion, and to acquiesce in the sentiments of another in preference to one's own. Respect marks the estimation that we have for another, which makes us look to him as worthy of high confidence for the qualities of his mind and heart. Reverence denotes a mingling of fear with a high degree of respect and esteem. Age, rank, dignity, and personal merit call for deference; respect should be paid to the wise and good; reverence is due to God, to the authors of our being, and to the sanctity of the laws. 

DEFERENT:  Serving to carry; bearing. [R.] "Bodies deferent." Bacon. 

DEFERENT:  An imaginary circle surrounding the earth, in whose periphery either the heavenly body or the center of the heavenly body's epicycle was supposed to be carried round. 

DEFERENTIAL:  Expressing deference; accustomed to defer. 

DEFERENTIALLY:  With deference. 

DEFERMENT:  The act of delaying; postponement. [R.] My grief, joined with the instant business, Begs a deferment. Suckling. 

DEFERRER:  One who defers or puts off.  DEFERVESCENCE; DEFERVESCENCY De`fer*ves"cence, De`fer*ves"cency, n. Etym: [L. defervescere to grow cool.]  1. A subsiding from a state of ebullition; loss of heat; lukewarmness. A defervescency in holy actions. Jer. Taylor.  2. (Med.)  The subsidence of a febrile process; as, the stage of defervescence in pneumonia. 

DEFEUDALIZE:  To deprive of the feudal character or form. 

DEFIANT:  Full of defiance; bold; insolent; as, a defiant spirit or act. In attitude stern and defiant. Longfellow. -- De*fi"ant*ly, adv.  -- De*fi"ant*ness, n. 

DEFIATORY:  Bidding or manifesting defiance. [Obs.] Shelford. 

DEFIBRINATE:  To deprive of fibrin, as fresh blood or lymph by stirring with twigs. 

DEFIBRINATION:  The act or process of depriving of fibrin. 

DEFIBRINIZE:  To defibrinate. 

DEFICIENCE:  Same as Deficiency. Thou in thyself art perfect, and in thee Is no deficience found. Milton. 

DEFICIENCY:  The state of being deficient; inadequacy; want; failure; imperfection; shortcoming; defect. "A deficiencyof blood." Arbuthnot. [Marlborough] was so miserably ignorant, that his deficiencies made him the ridicule of his contemporaries. Buckle. Deficiency of a curve (Geom.), the amount by which the number of double points on a curve is short of the maximum for curves of the same degree. 

DEFICIENT:  Wanting, to make up completeness; wanting, as regards a requirement; not sufficient; inadequate; defective; imperfect; incomplete; lacking; as, deficient parts; deficient estate; deficient strength; deficient in judgment. The style was indeed deficient in ease and variety. Macaulay. Deficient number. (Arith.) See under Abundant.  -- De*fi"cient-ly, adv. 

DEFICIT:  Deficiency in amount or quality; a falling short; lack; as, a deficit in taxes, revenue, etc. Addison. 

DEFIER:  One who dares and defies; a contemner; as, a defier of the laws. 

DEFIGURATION:  Disfiguration; mutilation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DEFIGURE:  To delineate. [Obs.] These two stones as they are here defigured. Weever. 

DEFILADE:  To raise, as a rampart, so as to shelter interior works commanded from some higher point. 

DEFILADING:  The art or act of determining the directions and heights of the lines of rampart with reference to the protection of the interior from exposure to an enemy's fire from any point within range, or from any works which may be erected. Farrow. 

DEFILE:  To march off in a line, file by file; to file off. 

DEFILE:  Same as Defilade. 

DEFILE:  The act of defilading a fortress, or of raising the exterior works in order to protect the interior. See Defilade. 

DEFILEMENT:  The protection of the interior walls of a fortification from an enfilading fire, as by covering them, or by a high parapet on the exposed side. 

DEFILEMENT:  The act of defiling, or state of being defiled, whether physically or morally; pollution; foulness; dirtiness; uncleanness. Defilements of the flesh. Hopkins. The chaste can not rake into such filth without danger of defilement. Addison. 

DEFILER:  One who defiles; one who corrupts or violates; that which pollutes. 

DEFILIATION:  Abstraction of a child from its parents. Lamb. 

DEFINABLE:  Capable of being defined, limited, or explained; determinable; describable by definition; ascertainable; as, definable limits; definable distinctions or regulations; definable words.  -- De*fin"a*bly, adv. 

DEFINE:  To determine; to decide. [Obs.] 

DEFINEMENT:  The act of defining; definition; description. [Obs.] Shak. 

DEFINER:  One who defines or explains. 

DEFINITE:  A thing defined or determined. [Obs.] 

DEFINITELY:  In a definite manner; with precision; precisely; determinately. 

DEFINITENESS:  The state of being definite; determinateness; precision; certainty. 

DEFINITION:  An exact enunciation of the constituents which make up the logical essence.  5. (Opt.)  Distinctness or clearness, as of an image formed by an optical instrument; precision in detail.  Syn.  -- Definition, Explanation, Description. A definition is designed to settle a thing in its compass and extent; an explanation is intended to remove some obscurity or misunderstanding, and is therefore more extended and minute; a description enters into striking particulars with a view to interest or impress by graphic effect. It is not therefore true, though often said, that description is only an extended definition. "Logicians distinguish definitions into essential and accidental. An essential definition states what are regarded as the constituent parts of the essence of that which is to be defined; and an accidental definition lays down what are regarded as circumstances belonging to it, viz., properties or accidents, such as causes, effects, etc." Whately. 

DEFINITIONAL:  Relating to definition; of the nature of a definition; employed in defining. 

DEFINITIVE:  A word used to define or limit the extent of the signification of a common noun, such as the definite article, and some pronouns.  Note: Definitives . . . are commonly called by grammarians articles. . . . They are of two kinds, either those properly and strictly so called, or else pronominal articles, such as this, that, any, other, some, all, no, none, etc. Harris (Hermes). 

DEFINITIVELY:  In a definitive manner. 

DEFINITIVENESS:  The quality of being definitive. 

DEFINITUDE:  Definiteness. [R.] Definitude . . . is a knowledge of minute differences. Sir W. Hamilton. 

DEFIX:  To fix; to fasten; to establish. [Obs.] "To defix their princely seat . . . in that extreme province." Hakluyt. 

DEFLAGRABILITY:  The state or quality of being deflagrable. The ready deflagrability . . . of saltpeter. Boyle. 

DEFLAGRABLE:  Burning with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; hence, slightly explosive; liable to snap and crackle when heated, as salt. 

DEFLAGRATE:  To burn with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; also, to snap and crackle with slight explosions when heated, as salt. 

DEFLAGRATE:  To cause to burn with sudden and sparkling combustion, as by the action of intense heat; to burn or vaporize suddenly; as, to deflagrate refractory metals in the oxyhydrogen flame. 

DEFLAGRATION:  The act or process of deflagrating. 

DEFLAGRATOR:  A form of the voltaic battery having large plates, used for producing rapid and powerful combustion. 

DEFLATE:  To reduce from an inflated condition. 

DEFLECT:  To cause to turn aside; to bend; as, rays of light are often deflected. Sitting with their knees deflected under them. Lord (1630). 

DEFLECT:  To turn aside; to deviate from a right or a horizontal line, or from a proper position, course or direction; to swerve. At some part of the Azores, the needle deflecteth not, but lieth in the true meridian. Sir T. Browne. To deflect from the line of truth and reason. Warburton. 

DEFLECTABLE:  Capable of being deflected. 

DEFLECTION:  The deviation of a shot or ball from its true course.  3. (Opt.)  A deviation of the rays of light toward the surface of an opaque body; inflection; diffraction.  4. (Engin.)  The bending which a beam or girder undergoes from its own weight or by reason of a load. 

DEFLECTIONIZATION:  The act of freeing from inflections. Earle. 

DEFLECTIONIZE:  To free from inflections. Deflectionized languages are said to be analytic. Earle. 

DEFLECTIVE:  Causing deflection. Deflective forces, forces that cause a body to deviate from its course. 

DEFLECTOR:  That which deflects, as a diaphragm in a furnace, or a come in a lamp (to deflect and mingle air and gases and help combustion). 

DEFLEXED:  Bent abruptly downward. 

DEFLEXION:  See Deflection. 

DEFLEXURE:  A bending or turning aside; deflection. Bailey. 

DEFLORATE:  Past the flowering state; having shed its pollen. Gray. 

DEFLOURER:  One who deflours; a ravisher. 

DEFLOW:  To flow down. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DEFLOWER:  Same as Deflour. An earthquake . . . deflowering the gardens. W. Montagu. If a man had deflowered a virgin. Milton. 

DEFLOWERER:  See Deflourer. Milton. 

DEFLUOUS:  Flowing down; falling off. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEFLUX:  Downward flow. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DEFLUXION:  A discharge or flowing of humors or fluid matter, as from the nose in catarrh; -- sometimes used synonymously with inflammation. Dunglison. 

DEFLY:  Deftly. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DEFOEDATION:  Defedation. [Obs.]  DEFOLIATE; DEFOLIATED De*fo"li*ate, De*fo"li*a`ted. a.  Deprived of leaves, as by their natural fall. 

DEFOLIATION:  The separation of ripened leaves from a branch or stem; the falling or shedding of the leaves. 

DEFORCEOR:  Same as Deforciant. [Obs.] 

DEFORCIATION:  Same as Deforcement, n. 

DEFOREST:  To clear of forests; to dis U. S. Agric. Reports. 

DEFORM:  Deformed; misshapen; shapeless; horrid. [Obs.] Sight so deform what heart of rock could long Dry-eyed behold Milton. 

DEFORMED:  Unnatural or distorted in form; having a deformity; misshapen; disfigured; as, a deformed person; a deformed head.  -- De*form"ed*ly, adv.  -- De*form"ed*ness, n. 

DEFORMER:  One who deforms. 

DEFORSER:  A deforciant. [Obs.] Blount. 

DEFRAUD:  To deprive of some right, interest, or property, by a deceitful device; to withhold from wrongfully; to injure by embezzlement; to cheat; to overreach; as, to defraud a servant, or a creditor, or the state; -- with of before the thing taken or withheld. We have defrauded no man. 2 Cor. vii. 2. Churches seem injured and defrauded of their rights. Hooker. 

DEFRAUDATION:  The act of defrauding; a taking by fraud. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

DEFRAUDER:  One who defrauds; a cheat; an embezzler; a peculator. 

DEFRAUDMENT:  Privation by fraud; defrauding. [Obs.] Milton. 

DEFRAYAL:  The act of defraying; payment; as, the defrayal of necessary costs. 

DEFRAYER:  One who pays off expenses. 

DEFRAYMENT:  Payment of charges. 

DEFT:  Apt; fit; dexterous; clever; handy; spruce; neat. [Archaic or Poetic] "The deftest way." Shak. "Deftest feats." Gay. The limping god, do deft at his new ministry. Dryden. Let me be deft and debonair. Byron. 

DEFTLY:  Aptly; fitly; dexterously; neatly. "Deftly dancing." Drayton. Thyself and office deftly show. Shak. 

DEFTNESS:  The quality of being deft. Drayton. 

DEFUNCT:  Having finished the course of life; dead; deceased. "Defunct organs." Shak. The boar, defunct, lay tripped up, near. Byron. 

DEFUNCT:  A dead person; one deceased. 

DEFUNCTION:  Death. [Obs.] After defunction of King Pharamond. Shak. 

DEFUNCTIVE:  Funereal. [Obs.] "Defunctive music." Shak. 

DEFUSE:  To disorder; to make shapeless. [Obs.] Shak. 

DEFY:  A challenge. [Obs.] Dryden. 

DEGAGE:  Unconstrained; easy; free. Vanbrugh.  A graceful and dégagé manner. Poe. 

DEGARNISHMENT:  The act of depriving, as of furniture, apparatus, or a garrison. [R.]  DEGENDER; DEGENER De*gen"der, De*gen"er, v. i. Etym: [See Degenerate.]  To degenerate. [Obs.] "Degendering to hate." Spenser. He degenereth into beastliness. Joye. 

DEGENERATE:  Having become worse than one's kind, or one's former state; having declined in worth; having lost in goodness; deteriorated; degraded; unworthy; base; low. Faint-hearted and degenerate king. Shak. A degenerate and degraded state. Milton. Degenerate from their ancient blood. Swift. These degenerate days. Pope. I had planted thee a noble vine . . . : how then art thou turned into the degenerate plant of a strange vine unto me Jer. ii. 21. 

DEGENERATE:  To fall off from the normal quality or the healthy structure of its kind; to become of a lower type. 

DEGENERATELY:  In a degenerate manner; unworthily. 

DEGENERATENESS:  Degeneracy. 

DEGENERATION:  That condition of a tissue or an organ in which its vitality has become either diminished or perverted; a substitution of a lower for a higher form of structure; as, fatty degeneration of the liver.  3. (Biol.)  A gradual deterioration, from natural causes, of any class of animals or plants or any particular or organs; hereditary degradation of type.  4. The thing degenerated. [R.] Cockle, aracus, . . . and other degenerations. Sir T. Browne. Amyloid degeneration, Caseous degeneration, etc. See under Amyloid, Caseous, etc. 

DEGENERATIONIST:  A believer in the theory of degeneration, or hereditary degradation of type; as, the degenerationists hold that savagery is the result of degeneration from a superior state. 

DEGENERATIVE:  Undergoing or producing degeneration; tending to degenerate. 

DEGENEROUS:  Degenerate; base. [Obs.] "Degenerous passions." Dryden. "Degenerous practices." South. 

DEGENEROUSLY:  Basely. [Obs.] 

DEGERM:  To extract the germs from, as from wheat grains. 

DEGERMINATOR:  A machine for breaking open the kernels of wheat or other grain and removing the germs. 

DEGLAZE:  To remove the glaze from, as pottery or porcelain, so as to give a dull finish. 

DEGLAZING:  The process of giving a dull or ground surface to glass by acid or by mechanical means. Knight. 

DEGLORIED:  Deprived of glory; dishonored. [Obs.] "With thorns degloried." G. Fletcher. 

DEGLUTINATE:  To loosen or separate by dissolving the glue which unties; to unglue. 

DEGLUTINATION:  The act of ungluing. 

DEGLUTITION:  The act or process of swallowing food; the power of swallowing. The muscles employed in the act of deglutition. Paley. 

DEGLUTITIOUS:  Pertaining to deglutition. [R.] 

DEGLUTITORY:  Serving for, or aiding in, deglutition. 

DEGRADATION:  A gradual wearing down or wasting, as of rocks and banks, by the action of water, fro  5. (Biol.)  The state or condition of a species or group which exhibits degraded forms; degeneration. The degradation of the species man is observed in some of its varieties. Dana.  6. (Physiol.)  Arrest of development, or degeneration of any organ, or of the body as a whole. Degradation of energy, or Dissipation of energy (Physics), the transformation of energy into some form in which it is less available for doing work.  Syn.  -- Abasement; debasement; reduction; decline. 

DEGRADE:  To reduce in altitude or magnitude, as hills and mountains; to wear down.  Syn.  -- To abase; demean; lower; reduce. See Abase. 

DEGRADE:  To degenerate; to pass from a higher to a lower type of structure; as, a family of plants or animals degrades through this or that genus or group of genera. 

DEGRADED:  Having the typical characters or organs in a partially developed condition, or lacking certain parts. Some families of plants are degraded dicotyledons. Dana.  3. Etym: [Cf. F. degré step.] (Her.)  Having steps; -- said of a cross each of whose extremities finishes in steps growing larger as they leave the center; -- termed also on degrees. 

DEGRADEMENT:  Deprivation of rank or office; degradation. [R.] Milton. 

DEGRADINGLY:  In a degrading manner.  DEGRAS; DEGRAS Dé`gras", Deg"ras, n. [F.; cf. F. gras, a. & n., fat.]  A semisolid emulsion produced by the treatment of certain skins with oxidized fish oil, which extracts their soluble albuminoids. It was formerly solely a by-product of chamois leather manufacture, but is now made for its own sake, being valuable as a dressing for hides. 

DEGRAVATION:  The act of making heavy. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEGREASE:  To remove grease or fatty matter from, as wool or silk. 

DEGREE:  A certain distance or remove in the line of descent, determining the proximity of blood; one remove in the chain of relationship; as, a relation in the third or fourth degree. In the 11th century an opinion began to gain ground in Italy, that third cousins might marry, being in the seventh degree according to the civil law. Hallam.  7. (Arith.)  Three figures taken together in numeration; thus, 140 is one degree, 222,140 two degrees.  8. (Algebra)  State as indicated by sum of exponents; more particularly, the degree of a term is indicated by the sum of the exponents of its literal factors; thus, a2b2c is a term of the sixth degree. The degree of a power, or radical, is denoted by its index, that of an equation by the greatest sum of the exponents of the unknown quantities in any term; thus, ax4 + bx2 = c, and mx2y2 + nyx = p, are both equations of the fourth degree.  9. (Trig.)  A 360th part of the circumference of a circle, which part is taken as the principal unit of measure for arcs and angles. The degree is divided into 60 minutes and the minute into 60 seconds.  10. A division, space, or interval, marked on a mathematical or other instrument, as on a thermometer.  11. (Mus.)  A line or space of the staff.  Note: The short lines and their spaces are added degrees. Accumulation of degrees. (Eng. Univ.) See under Accumulation.  -- By degrees, step by step; by little and little; by moderate advances. "I 'll leave by degrees." Shak.  -- Degree of a curve or surface (Geom.), the number which expresses the degree of the equation of the curve or surface in rectilinear coördinates. A straight line will, in general, meet the curve or surface in a number of points equal to the degree of the curve or surface and no more.  -- Degree of latitude (Geog.), on the earth, the distance on a meridian between two parallels of latitude whose latitudes differ from each other by one degree. This distance is not the same on different parts of a meridian, on account of the flattened figure of the earth, being 68.702 statute miles at the equator, and 69.396 at the poles.  -- Degree of longitude, the distance on a parallel of latitude between two meridians that make an angle of one degree with each other at the poles -- a distance which varies as the cosine of the latitude, being at the equator 69.16 statute miles.  -- To a degree, to an extreme; exceedingly; as, mendacious to a degree. It has been said that Scotsmen . . . are . . . grave to a degree on occasions when races more favored by nature are gladsome to excess. Prof. Wilson. 

DEGU:  A small South American rodent (Octodon Cumingii), of the family Octodontidæ. 

DEGUM:  To deprive of, or free from, gum; as, to degum ramie. 

DEGUST:  To taste. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

DEGUSTATION:  Tasting; the appreciation of sapid qualities by the taste organs. Bp. Hall. 

DEHISCE:  To gape; to open by dehiscence. 

DEHISCENCE:  A gaping or bursting open along a definite line of attachment or suture, without tearing, as in the opening of pods, or the bursting of capsules at maturity so as to emit seeds, etc.; also, the bursting open of follicles, as in the ovaries of animals, for the expulsion of their contents. 

DEHISCENT:  Characterized by dehiscence; opening in some definite way, as the capsule of a plant. 

DEHONESTATE:  To disparage. [Obs.] 

DEHONESTATION:  A dishonoring; disgracing. [Obs.] Gauden. 

DEHORN:  To deprive of horns; to prevent the growth or the horns of (cattle) by burning their ends soon after they start. See Dishorn. "Dehorning cattle." Farm Journal (1886). 

DEHORS:  Out of; without; foreign to; out of the agreement, record, will, or other instrument. 

DEHORS:  All sorts of outworks in general, at a distance from the main works; any advanced works for protection or cover. Farrow. 

DEHORT:  To urge to abstain or refrain; to dissuade. [Obs.] The apostles vehemently dehort us from unbelief. Bp. Ward. "Exhort" remains, but dehort, a word whose place neither "dissuade" nor any other exactly supplies, has escaped us. Trench. 

DEHORTATION:  Dissuasion; advice against something. [R.] 

DEHORTATIVE:  Dissuasive. [R.] 

DEHORTATORY:  Fitted or designed to dehort or dissuade. Bp. Hall. 

DEHORTER:  A dissuader; an adviser to the contrary. [Obs.] 

DEHUMANIZE:  To divest of human qualities, such as pity, tenderness, etc.; as, dehumanizing influences. 

DEHUSK:  To remove the husk from. [Obs.] "Wheat dehusked upon the floor." Drant. 

DEHYDRATE:  To deprive of water; to render free from water; as, to dehydrate alcohol. 

DEHYDRATION:  The act or process of freeing from water; also, the condition of a body from which the water has been removed. 

DEHYDROGENATE:  To deprive of, or free from, hydrogen. 

DEHYDROGENATION:  The act or process or freeing from hydrogen; also, the condition resulting from the removal of hydrogen. 

DEICTIC:  Direct; proving directly; -- applied to reasoning, and opposed to elenchtic or refutative. 

DEICTICALLY:  In a manner to show or point out; directly; absolutely; definitely. When Christ spake it deictically. Hammond.  DEIFIC; DEIFICAL De*if"ic, De*if"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. deificus; deus god + facere to make: cf. F. déifigue.]  Making divine; producing a likeness to God; god-making. "A deifical communion." Homilies. 

DEIFICATION:  The act of deifying; exaltation to divine honors; apotheosis; excessive praise. 

DEIFIED:  Honored or worshiped as a deity; treated with supreme regard; godlike. 

DEIFIER:  One who deifies. 

DEIFORMITY:  Likeness to deity. [Obs.] 

DEIGN:  To think worthy; to vouchsafe; to condescend; -- followed by an infinitive. O deign to visit our forsaken seats. Pope. Yet not Lord Cranstone deigned she greet. Sir W. Scott. Round turned he, as not deigning Those craven ranks to see. Macaulay.  Note: In early English deign was often used impersonally. Him deyneth not to set his foot to ground. Chaucer. 

DEIGNOUS:  Haughty; disdainful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEIL:  Devil; -- spelt also deel. [Scot.] Deil's buckie. See under Buckie. 

DEINOCERAS:  See Dinoceras. 

DEINORNIS:  See Dinornis. 

DEINOSAUR:  See Dinosaur. 

DEINOTHERIUM:  See Dinotherium. 

DEINTEGRATE:  To disintegrate. [Obs.]  DEINTEOUS; DEINTEVOUS Dein"te*ous, Dein"te*vous, a.  Rare; excellent; costly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEIPAROUS:  Bearing or bringing forth a god; -- said of the Virgin Mary. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEIPNOSOPHIST:  One of an ancient sect of philosophers, who cultivated learned conversation at meals. 

DEIS:  See Dais. 

DEISM:  The doctrine or creed of a deist; the belief or system of those who acknowledge the existence of one God, but deny revelation.  Note: Deism is the belief in natural religion only, or those truths, in doctrine and practice, which man is to discover by the light of reason, independent of any revelation from God. Hence, deism implies infidelity, or a disbelief in the divine origin of the Scriptures. 

DEIST:  One who believes in the existence of a God, but denies revealed religion; a freethinker.  Note: A deist, as denying a revelation, is opposed to a Christian; as, opposed to the denier of a God, whether atheist or patheist, a deist is generally denominated theist. Latham.  Syn.  -- See Infidel.  DEISTIC; DEISTICAL De*is"tic, De*is"tic*al, a.  Pertaining to, savoring of, or consisting in, deism; as, a deistic writer; a deistical book. The deistical or antichristian scheme. I. Watts. 

DEISTICALLY:  After the manner of deists. 

DEISTICALNESS:  State of being deistical. 

DEITATE:  Deified. [Obs.] Granmer. 

DEJECT:  Dejected. [Obs.] 

DEJECTA:  Excrements; as, the dejecta of the sick. 

DEJECTED:  Cast down; afflicted; low-spirited; sad; as, a dejected look or countenance.  -- De*ject"ed*ly, adv.  -- De*ject"ed*ness, n. 

DEJECTER:  One who casts down, or dejects. 

DEJECTLY:  Dejectedly. [Obs.] 

DEJECTURE:  That which is voided; excrements. Arbuthnot. 

DEJERATE:  To swear solemnly; to take an oath. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

DEJERATION:  The act of swearing solemnly. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DEJEUNE:  A déjeuner. Take a déjeuné of muskadel and eggs. B. Jonson. 

DEJEUNER:  A breakfast; sometimes, also, a lunch or collation.  DE JURE De` ju"re. Etym: [L.]  By right; of right; by law; -- often opposed to be facto.  DEKA- Dek"a-. (Metric System)  A prefix signifying ten. See Deca-. 

DEKABRIST:  A Decembrist. 

DEKAGRAM:  Same as Decagram. 

DEKALITER:  Same as Decaliter. 

DEKAMETER:  Same as Decameter. 

DEKASTERE:  Same as Decastere. 

DEKLE:  See Deckle. 

DEL:  Share; portion; part. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DELACERATION:  A tearing in pieces. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DELACRYMATION:  An involuntary discharge of watery humors from the eyes; wateriness of the eyes. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DELACTATION:  The act of weaning. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DELAINE:  A kind of fabric for women's dresses. 

DELAMINATION:  Formation and separation of laminæ or layers; one of the methods by which the various blastodermic layers of the ovum are differentiated.  Note: This process consists of a concentric splitting of the cells of the blastosphere into an outer layer (epiblast) and an inner layer (hypoblast). By the perforation of the resultant two-walled vesicle, a gastrula results similar to that formed by the process of invagination. 

DELAPSATION:  See Delapsion. Ray. 

DELAPSE:  To pass down by inheritance; to lapse. [Obs.] Which Anne derived alone the right, before all other, Of the delapsed crown from Philip. Drayton. 

DELAPSION:  A falling down, or out of place; prolapsion. 

DELASSATION:  Fatigue. Able to continue without delassation. Ray. 

DELATE:  To dilate. [Obs.] Goodwin. 

DELATION:  Accusation by an informer. Milman. 

DELATOR:  An accuser; an informer. [R.] Howell. 

DELAWARE:  An American grape, with compact bunches of small, amber-colored berries, sweet and of a good flavor. 

DELAWARES:  A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the valley of the Delaware River, but now mostly located in the Indian Territory. 

DELAY:  A putting off or deferring; procrastination; lingering inactivity; stop; detention; hindrance. Without any delay, on the morrow I sat on the judgment seat. Acts xxv. 17. The government ought to be settled without the delay of a day. Macaulay. 

DELAY:  To move slowly; to stop for a time; to linger; to tarry. There seem to be certain bounds to the quickness and slowness of the succession of those ideas, . . . beyond which they can neither delay nor hasten. Locke. 

DELAYER:  One who delays; one who lingers. 

DELAYINGLY:  By delays. [R.] Tennyson. 

DELAYMENT:  Hindrance. [Obs.] Gower.  DEL CREDERE Del` cred"er*e. Etym: [It., of belief or trust.] (Mercantile Law)  An agreement by which an agent or factor, in consideration of an additional premium or commission (called a del credere commission), engages, when he sells goods on credit, to insure, warrant, or guarantee to his principal the solvency of the purchaser, the engagement of the factor being to pay the debt himself if it is not punctually discharged by the buyer when it becomes due. 

DELE:  Erase; remove; -- a direction to cancel something which has been put in type; usually expressed by a peculiar form of d, thus: . 

DELE:  To erase; to cancel; to delete; to mark for omission. 

DELE:  To deal; to divide; to distribute. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DELEBLE:  Capable of being blotted out or erased. "An impression easily deleble." Fuller. 

DELECTABLE:  Highly pleasing; delightful. Delectable both to behold and taste. Milton. -- De*lec"ta*ble*ness, n.  -- De*lec"ta*bly, adv. 

DELECTATE:  To delight; to charm. [R.] 

DELECTATION:  Great pleasure; delight. 

DELECTUS:  A name given to an elementary book for learners of Latin or Greek. G. Eliot. 

DELEGATE:  Sent to act for a represent another; deputed; as, a delegate judge. "Delegate power." Strype. 

DELEGATION:  A kind of novation by which a debtor, to be liberated from his creditor, gives him a third person, who becomes obliged in his stead to the creditor, or to the person appointed by him. Pothier. 

DELEGATORY:  Holding a delegated position. Nash. 

DELENDA:  Things to be erased or blotted out. 

DELENIFICAL:  Assuaging pain. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DELETE:  To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit. I have, therefore, . . . inserted eleven stanzas which do not appear in Sir Walter Scott's version, and have deleted eight. Aytoun. 

DELETERIOUS:  Hurtful; noxious; destructive; pernicious; as, a deleterious plant or quality; a deleterious example.  -- Del`e*te"ri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Del`e*te"ri*ous*ness, n. 

DELETERY:  Destructive; poisonous. [Obs.] "Deletery medicines." Hudibras. 

DELETERY:  That which destroys. [Obs.] They [the Scriptures] are the only deletery of heresies. Jer. Taylor. 

DELETION:  Act of deleting, blotting out, or erasing; destruction. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. A total deletion of every person of the opposing party. Sir M. Hale. 

DELETITIOUS:  Of such a nature that anything may be erased from it; -- said of paper. 

DELETIVE:  Adapted to destroy or obliterate. [R.] Evelyn. 

DELETORY:  That which blots out. [Obs.] "A deletory of sin." Jer. Taylor. 

DELF:  A mine; a quarry; a pit dug; a ditch. [Written also delft, and delve.] [Obs.] The delfts would be so flown with waters, that no gins or machines could . . . keep them dry. Ray. 

DELF:  Same as Delftware. 

DELFT:  Same as Delftware. 

DELIBATE:  To taste; to take a sip of; to dabble in. [Obs.] 

DELIBATION:  Act of tasting; a slight trial. [Obs.] Berkeley. 

DELIBER:  To deliberate. [Obs.] 

DELIBERATE:  To weigh in the mind; to consider the reasons for and against; to consider maturely; to reflect upon; to ponder; as, to deliberate a question. 

DELIBERATE:  To take counsel with one's self; to weigh the arguments for and against a proposed course of action; to reflect; to consider; to hesitate in deciding; -- sometimes with on, upon, concerning. The woman the deliberation is lost. Addison. 

DELIBERATELY:  With careful consideration, or deliberation; circumspectly; warily; not hastily or rashly; slowly; as, a purpose deliberately formed. 

DELIBERATENESS:  The quality of being deliberate; calm consideration; circumspection. 

DELIBERATIVE:  Pertaining to deliberation; proceeding or acting by deliberation, or by discussion and examination; deliberating; as, a deliberative body. A consummate work of deliberative wisdom. Bancroft. The court of jurisdiction is to be distinguished from the deliberative body, the advisers of the crown. Hallam. 

DELIBERATIVELY:  In a deliberative manner; circumspectly; considerately. 

DELIBERATOR:  One who deliberates. 

DELIBRATE:  To strip off the bark; to peel. [Obs.] Ash. 

DELIBRATION:  The act of stripping off the bark. [Obs.] Ash. 

DELICATELY:  In a delicate manner. 

DELICATENESS:  The quality of being delicate. 

DELICATESSEN:  Relishes for the table; dainties; delicacies. "A dealer in delicatessen".  G. H. Putnam. 

DELICES:  Delicacies; delights. [Obs.] "Dainty delices." Spenser. 

DELICIATE:  To delight one's self; to indulge in feasting; to revel. [Obs.] 

DELICIOUSLY:  Delightfully; as, to feed deliciously; to be deliciously entertained. 

DELICT:  An offense or transgression against law; (Scots Law) an offense of a lesser degree; a misdemeanor. Every regulation of the civil code necessarily implies a delict in the event of its violation. Jeffrey. 

DELIGATE:  To bind up; to bandage. 

DELIGATION:  A binding up; a bandaging. Wiseman. 

DELIGHT:  To give delight to; to affect with great pleasure; to please highly; as, a beautiful landscape delights the eye; harmony delights the ear. Inventions to delight the taste. Shak. Delight our souls with talk of knightly deeds. Tennyson. 

DELIGHT:  To have or take great delight or pleasure; to be greatly pleased or rejoiced; -- followed by an infinitive, or by in. Love delights in praises. Shak. I delight to do thy will, O my God. Ps. xl. 8. 

DELIGHTABLE:  Capable of delighting; delightful. [Obs.] Many a spice delightable. Rom. of R. 

DELIGHTED:  Endowed with delight. If virtue no delighted beauty lack. Shak.  Syn.  -- Glad; pleased; gratified. See Glad. 

DELIGHTEDLY:  With delight; gladly. 

DELIGHTER:  One who gives or takes delight. 

DELIGHTFUL:  Highly pleasing; affording great pleasure and satisfaction. "Delightful bowers." Spenser. "Delightful fruit." Milton.  Syn.  -- Delicious; charming. See Delicious.  -- De*light"ful*ly, adv.  -- De*light"ful*ness, n. 

DELIGHTING:  Giving delight; gladdening.  -- De*light"ing*ly, adv. Jer. Taylor. 

DELIGHTLESS:  Void of delight. Thomson. 

DELIGHTOUS:  Delightful. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

DELIGHTSOME:  Very pleasing; delightful. "Delightsome vigor." Grew. Ye shall be a delightsome land, . . . saith the Lord. Mal. iii. 12. -- De*light"some*ly, adv.  -- De*light"some*ness, n. 

DELIGNATE:  To clear or strip of wood (by cutting down trees). [R.] Fuller.  2.  To strip or remove the wood from; as, to delignate ramie, in the preparation of ribbons of the fiber for further working. 

DELILAH:  The mistress of Samson, who betrayed him (Judges xvi.); hence, a harlot; a temptress. Other Delilahs on a smaller scale Burns met with during his Dumfries sojourn. J. C. Shairp. 

DELIMIT:  To fix the limits of; to demarcate; to bound. 

DELIMITATION:  The act or process of fixing limits or boundaries; limitation. Gladstone. 

DELINEABLE:  Capable of being, or liable to be, delineated. Feltham. 

DELINEAMENT:  Delineation; sketch. Dr. H. More. 

DELINEATE:  Delineated; portrayed. [R.] 

DELINEATOR:  A perambulator which records distances and delineates a profile, as of a road. 

DELINEATORY:  That delineates; descriptive; drawing the outline; delineating. 

DELINEATURE:  Delineation. [Obs.] 

DELINITION:  A smearing. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

DELINQUENCY:  Failure or omission of duty; a fault; a misdeed; an offense; a misdemeanor; a crime. The delinquencies of the little commonwealth would be represented in the most glaring colors. Motley. 

DELINQUENT:  Failing in duty; offending by neglect of duty. 

DELINQUENT:  One who fails or neglects to perform his duty; an offender or transgressor; one who commits a fault or a crime; a culprit. A delinquent ought to be cited in the place or jurisdiction where the delinquency was committed. Ayliffe. 

DELINQUENTLY:  So as to fail in duty. 

DELIQUATE:  To melt or be dissolved; to deliquesce. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DELIQUATE:  To cause to melt away; to dissolve; to consume; to waste. [Obs.] Dilapidating, or rather deliquating, his bishopric. Fuller. 

DELIQUATION:  A melting. [Obs.] 

DELIQUESCE:  To dissolve gradually and become liquid by attracting and absorbing moisture from the air, as certain salts, acids, and alkalies. In very moist air crystals of strontites deliquesce. Black. 

DELIQUESCENCE:  The act of deliquescing or liquefying; process by which anything deliquesces; tendency to melt. 

DELIQUESCENT:  Branching so that the stem is lost in branches, as in most deciduous trees. Gray. 

DELIQUIATE:  To melt and become liquid by absorbing water from the air; to deliquesce. Fourcroy. 

DELIQUIATION:  The act of deliquating. 

DELIQUIUM:  A melting or dissolution in the air, or in a moist place; a liquid condition; as, a salt falls into a deliquium. [R.]  2. A sinking away; a swooning. [Obs.] Bacon.  3. A melting or maudlin mood. Carlyle. 

DELIRACY:  Delirium. [Obs.] 

DELIRAMENT:  A wandering of the mind; a crazy fancy. [Obs.] Heywood. 

DELIRANCY:  Delirium. [Obs.] Gauden. 

DELIRANT:  Delirious. [Obs.] Owen. 

DELIRATE:  To madden; to rave. [Obs.] An infatuating and delirating spirit in it. Holland. 

DELIRATION:  Aberration of mind; delirium. J. Motley. Deliration or alienation of the understanding. Mede. 

DELIRIANT:  A poison which occasions a persistent delirium, or mental aberration (as belladonna). 

DELIRIFACIENT:  Producing, or tending to produce, delirium.  -- n.  Any substance which tends to cause delirium. 

DELIRIOUS:  Having a delirium; wandering in mind; light-headed; insane; raving; wild; as, a delirious patient; delirious fancies.  -- De*lir"i*ous*ly, adv.  -- De*lir"i*ous*ness, n. 

DELIRIUM:  A state in which the thoughts, expressions, and actions are wild, irregular, and incoherent; mental aberration; a roving or wandering of the mind, -- usually dependent on a fever or some other disease, and so distinguished from mania, or madness.  2. Strong excitement; wild enthusiasm; madness. The popular delirium [of the French Revolution] at first caught his enthusiastic mind. W. Irving. The delirium of the preceding session (of Parliament). Motley. Delirium tremens (. Etym: [L., trembling delirium] (Med.), a violent delirium induced by the excessive and prolonged use of intoxicating liquors.  -- Traumatic delirium (Med.), a variety of delirium following injury.  Syn.  -- Insanity; frenzy; madness; derangement; aberration; mania; lunacy; fury. See Insanity. 

DELIT:  Delight. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DELITABLE:  Delightful; delectable. [Obs.] 

DELITESCENCE:  The sudden disappearance of inflammation. 

DELITESCENCY:  Concealment; seclusion. The mental organization of the novelist must be characterized, to speak craniologically, by an extraordinary development of the passion for delitescency. Sir W. Scott. 

DELITESCENT:  Lying hid; concealed. 

DELITIGATE:  To chide; to rail heartily. [Obs.] 

DELITIGATION:  Chiding; brawl. [Obs.] 

DELIVER:  Free; nimble; sprightly; active. [Obs.] Wonderly deliver and great of strength. Chaucer. 

DELIVERABLE:  Capable of being, or about to be, delivered; necessary to be delivered. Hale. 

DELIVERANCE:  Any fact or truth which is decisively attested or intuitively known as a psychological or philosophical datum; as, the deliverance of consciousness. 

DELIVERESS:  A female de [R.] Evelyn. 

DELIVERLY:  Actively; quickly; nimbly. [Obs.] Swim with your bodies, And carry it sweetly and deliverly. Beau. & Fl. 

DELIVERNESS:  Nimbleness; agility. [Obs.] 

DELL:  A shortened form of Academia della Crusca, an academy in Florescence, Italy, founded in the 16th century, especially for conversing the purity of the Italian language.  Note: The Accademia della Crusca (literally, academy of the bran or chaff) was so called in allusion to its chief object of bolting or purifying the national language. 

DELLACRUSCAN:  Of or pertaining to the Accademia della Crusca in Florence. The Dellacruscan School, a name given in satire to a class of affected English writers, most of whom lived in Florence, about a. d. 1785. 

DELOO:  The duykerbok. 

DELOUL:  A special breed of the dromedary used for rapid traveling; the swift camel; -- called also herire, and maharik. 

DELPH:  Delftware. Five nothings in five plates of delph. Swift. 

DELPH:  The drain on the land side of a sea embankment. Knight. 

DELPHIAN:  Delphic. 

DELPHIC:  Pertaining to the dauphin of France; as, the Delphin classics, an edition of the Latin classics, prepared in the reign of Louis XIV., for the use of the dauphin (in usum Delphini). 

DELPHIN:  A fatty substance contained in the oil of the dolphin and the porpoise; -- called also phocenin. 

DELPHINE:  Pertaining to the dolphin, a genus of fishes. 

DELPHINIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the dolphin; phocenic. Delphinic acid. (Chem.) See Valeric acid, under Valeric. [Obs.] 

DELPHINIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the larkspur; specifically, relating to the stavesacre (Delphinium staphisagria). 

DELPHININE:  A poisonous alkaloid extracted from the stavesacre (Delphinium staphisagria), as a colorless amorphous powder. 

DELPHINOID:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the dolphin. 

DELPHINOIDEA:  The division of Cetacea which comprises the dolphins, porpoises, and related forms. 

DELPHINUS:  A genus of Cetacea, including the dolphin. See Dolphin,  1.  2. (Astron.)  The Dolphin, a constellation near the equator and east of Aquila.  DELSARTE; DELSARTE SYSTEM Del*sarte", n., or Delsarte system.  A system of calisthenics patterned on the theories of François Delsarte (1811 -- 71), a French teacher of dramatic and musical expression. 

DELTA:  A tract of land shaped like the letter delta (as, the delta of the Ganges, of the Nile, or of the Mississippi.  DELTA CONNECTION Delta connection. (Elec.)  One of the usual forms or methods for connecting apparatus to a three-phase circuit, the three corners of the delta or triangle, as diagrammatically represented, being connected to the three wires of the supply circuit.  DELTA CURRENT Delta current. (Elec.)  The current flowing through a delta connection. 

DELTAFICATION:  The formation of a delta or of deltas. [R.] 

DELTAIC:  Relating to, or like, a delta. 

DELTHYRIS:  A name formerly given to certain Silurian brachiopod shells of the genus Spirifer. Delthyris limestone (Geol.), one of the divisions of the Upper Silurian rocks in New York. 

DELTIC:  Deltaic. 

DELTIDIUM:  The triangular space under the beak of many brachiopod shells. 

DELTOHEDRON:  A solid bounded by twelve quadrilateral faces. It is a hemihedral form of the isometric system, allied to the tetrahedron. 

DELTOID:  Shaped like the Greek Deltoid leaf (Bot.), a leaf in the form of a triangle with the stem inserted at the middle of the base.  -- Deltoid muscle (Anat.), a triangular muscle in the shoulder which serves to move the arm directly upward. 

DELUDABLE:  Capable of being deluded; liable to be imposed on gullible. Sir T. Browne. 

DELUDER:  One who deludes; a deceiver; an impostor. 

DELUNDUNG:  An East Indian carnivorous mammal (Prionodon gracilis), resembling the civets, but without scent pouches. It is handsomely spotted. 

DELUSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to delusions; as, delusional monomania. 

DELUSIVE:  Apt or fitted to delude; tending to mislead the mind; deceptive; beguiling; delusory; as, delusive arts; a delusive dream. Delusive and unsubstantial ideas. Whewell. -- De*lu"sive*ly, adv.  -- De*lu"sive*ness, n. 

DELUSORY:  Delusive; fallacious. Glanvill. 

DELVE:  To dig or labor with a spade, or as with a spade; to labor as a drudge. Delve may I not: I shame to beg. Wyclif (Luke xvi. 3). 

DELVE:  A place dug; a pit; a ditch; a den; a cave. Which to that shady delve him brought at last The very tigers from their delves Look out. Moore. 

DELVER:  One who digs, as with a spade. 

DEMAGOG:  Demagogue.  DEMAGOGIC; DEMAGOGICAL Dem`a*gog"ic, Dem`a*gog"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. démagogique.]  Relating to, or like, a demagogue; factious. 

DEMAGOGISM:  The practices of a demagogue. 

DEMAGOGUE:  A leader of the rabble; one who attempts to control the multitude by specious or deceitful arts; an unprincipled and factious mob orator or political leader. 

DEMAGOGY:  Demagogism. 

DEMAIN:  See Demesne. 

DEMAND:  To call into court; to summon. Burrill. 

DEMAND:  To make a demand; to inquire. The soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do Luke iii. 14. 

DEMANDABLE:  That may be demanded or claimed. "All sums demandable." Bacon. 

DEMANDANT:  One who demands; the plaintiff in a real action; any plaintiff. 

DEMANDER:  One who demands. 

DEMANDRESS:  A woman who demands. 

DEMANTOID:  A yellow-green, transparent variety of garnet found in the Urals. It is valued as a gem because of its brilliancy of luster, whence the name. 

DEMARCATE:  To mark by bounds; to set the limits of; to separate; to discriminate. Wilkinson. 

DEMARCATION:  The act of marking, or of ascertaining and setting a limit; separation; distinction. The speculative line of demarcation, where obedience ought to end and resistance must begin, is faint, obscure, and not easily definable. Burke. 

DEMARCH:  March; walk; gait. [Obs.] 

DEMARCH:  A chief or ruler of a deme or district in Greece. 

DEMARKATION:  Same as Demarcation. 

DEMATERIALIZE:  To deprive of material or physical qualities or characteristics. Dematerializing matter by stripping if of everything which . . . has distinguished matter. Milman. 

DEME:  A territorial subdivision of Attica (also of modern Greece), corresponding to a township. Jowett (Thucyd).  2. (Biol.)  An undifferentiated aggregate of cells or plastids. 

DEMEAN:  Resources; means. [Obs.] You know How narrow our demeans are. Massinger. 

DEMEANANCE:  Demeanor. [Obs.] Skelton. 

DEMEANURE:  Behavior. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DEMENCY:  Dementia; loss of mental powers. See Insanity. 

DEMENT:  To deprive of reason; to make mad. [R.] Bale. 

DEMENT:  Demented; dementate. [R.] J. H. Newman. 

DEMENTATE:  Deprived of reason. Arise, thou dementate sinner! Hammond. 

DEMENTATE:  To deprive of reason; to dement. [R.] Burton. 

DEMENTATION:  The act of depriving of reason; madness. Whitlock. 

DEMENTED:  Insane; mad; of unsound mind.  -- De*ment"ed*ness, n. 

DEMENTIA:  Insanity; madness; esp. that form which consists in weakness or total loss of thought and reason; mental imbecility; idiocy. 

DEMEPHITIZE:  To purify from mephitic.  -- De*meph`i*ti*za"tion, n. 

DEMERGE:  To plunge down into; to sink; to immerse. [Obs.] The water in which it was demerged. Boyle. 

DEMERIT:  To deserve praise or blame. 

DEMERSE:  To immerse. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DEMERSED:  Situated or growing under water, as leaves; submersed. 

DEMESMERIZE:  To relieve from mesmeric influence. See Mesmerize. 

DEMESNE:  A lord's chief manor place, with that part of the lands belonging thereto which has not been granted out in tenancy; a house, and the land adjoining, kept for the proprietor's own use. [Written also demain.] Wharton's Law Dict. Burrill. Ancient demesne. (Eng. Law) See under Ancient. 

DEMESNIAL:  Of or pertaining to a demesne; of the nature of a demesne.  DEMI- Dem"i-. Etym: [F. demi-, fr. L. dimidius half; di- = dis- + medius middle. See Medium, and cf. Demy, Dimidiate.]  A prefix, signifying half. 

DEMI:  See Demy, n. 

DEMIBASTION:  A half bastion, or that part of a bastion consisting of one face and one flank. 

DEMIBRIGADE:  A half brigade. 

DEMICADENCE:  An imperfect or half cadence, falling on the dominant instead of on the key note. 

DEMICANNON:  A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from thirty to thirty-six pounds. Shak. 

DEMICIRCLE:  An instrument for measuring angles, in surveying, etc. It resembles 

DEMICULVERIN:  A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from nine to thirteen pounds. 

DEMIDEIFY:  To deify in part. Cowper. 

DEMIDEVIL:  A half devil. Shak. 

DEMIGOD:  A half god, or an inferior deity; a fabulous hero, the offspring of a deity and a mortal. 

DEMIGODDESS:  A female demigod. 

DEMIGORGE:  Half the gorge, or entrance into a bastion, taken from the angle of the flank to the center of the bastion. 

DEMIGRATE:  To emigrate. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

DEMIGRATION:  Emigration. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DEMIGROAT:  A half groat.  DEMI-ISLAND Dem"i-is`land, n.  Peninsula. [Obs.] Knolles. 

DEMIJOHN:  A glass vessel or bottle with a large body and small neck, inclosed in wickerwork. 

DEMILANCE:  A light lance; a short spear; a half pike; also, a demilancer. 

DEMILANCER:  A soldier of light cavalry of the 16th century, who carried a demilance. 

DEMILUNE:  A work constructed beyond the main ditch of a fortress, and in front of the curtain between two bastions, intended to defend the curtain; a ravelin. See Ravelin.  2. (Physiol.)  A crescentic mass of granular protoplasm present in the salivary glands.  Note: Each crescent is made of polyhedral cells which under some circumstances are supposed to give rise to new salivary cells. 

DEMIMAN:  A half man. [R.] Knolles. 

DEMIMONDE:  Persons of doubtful reputation; esp., women who are kept as mistresses, though not public prostitutes; demireps. Literary demimonde, writers of the lowest kind. 

DEMINATURED:  Having half the nature of another. [R.] Shak. 

DEMIQUAVER:  A note of half the length of the quaver; a semiquaver. [R.]  DEMIRELIEF; DEMIRELIEVO Dem`i*re*lief", Dem`i*re*lie"vo, n.  Half relief. See Demi-rilievo. 

DEMIREP:  A woman of doubtful reputation or suspected character; an adventuress. [Colloq.] De Quincey.  DEMI-RILIEVO Dem"i-ri*lie"vo, n. Etym: [Pref. demi- + It. rilievo.] (Fine Arts) (a) Half relief; sculpture in relief of which the figures project from the background by one half their full roundness. (b) A work of sculpture of the above character. See Alto-rilievo. 

DEMISABILITY:  The state of being demisable. 

DEMISABLE:  Capable of being leased; as, a demisable estate. 

DEMISE:  The conveyance or transfer of an estate, either in fee for life or for years, most commonly the latter. Bouvier.  Note: The demise of the crown is a transfer of the crown, royal authority, or kingdom, to a successor. Thus, when Edward IV. was driven from his throne for a few months by the house of Lancaster, this temporary transfer of his dignity was called a demise. Thus the natural death of a king or queen came to be denominated a demise, as by that event the crown is transferred to a successor. Blackstone. Demise and redemise, a conveyance where there are mutual leases made from one to another of the same land, or something out of it.  Syn.  -- Death; decease; departure. See Death. 

DEMISE:  To convey, as an estate, be lease; to lease. 

DEMISEMIQUAVER:  A short note, equal in time to the half of a semiquaver, or the thirty-second part of a whole note. 

DEMISS:  Cast down; humble; submissive. [Obs.] He down descended like a most demiss And abject thrall. Spenser. 

DEMISSIVE:  Downcast; submissive; humble. [R.] They pray with demissive eyelids. Lord (1630). 

DEMISSLY:  In a humble manner. [Obs.] 

DEMISUIT:  A suit of light armor covering less than the whole body, as having no protection for the legs below the things, no vizor to the helmet, and the like. 

DEMIT:  A small cup for, or of, black coffee. 

DEMITONE:  Semitone. [R.] 

DEMIURGE:  The chief magistrate in some of the Greek states.  2. God, as the Maker of the world.  3. According to the Gnostics, an agent or one employed by the Supreme Being to create the material universe and man. 

DEMIURGIC:  Pertaining to a demiurge; formative; creative. "Demiurgic power." De Quincey. 

DEMIVILL:  A half-vill, consisting of five freemen or frankpledges. Blackstone. 

DEMIVOLT:  A half vault; one of the seven artificial motions of a horse, in which he raises his fore legs in a particular manner. 

DEMIWOLF:  A half wolf; a mongrel dog, between a dog and a wolf. 

DEMOBILIZATION:  The disorganization or disarming of troops which have previously been mobilized or called into active service; the change from a war footing to a peace footing. 

DEMOBILIZE:  To disorganize, or disband and send home, as troops which have been mobilized. 

DEMOCRATICAL:  Democratic. The democratical was democratically received. Algernon Sidney. 

DEMOCRATICALLY:  In a democratic manner. 

DEMOCRATISM:  The principles or spirit of a democracy. [R.] 

DEMOCRATIST:  A democrat. [R.] Burke. 

DEMOCRATIZE:  To render democratic. 

DEMOCRATY:  Democracy. [Obs.] Milton. 

DEMOGORGON:  , A mysterious, terrible, and evil divinity, regarded by some as the author of creation, by others as a great magician who was supposed to command the spirits of the lower world. See Gorgon. Orcus and Ades, and the dreaded name Of Demogorgon. Milton. 

DEMOGRAPHY:  The study of races, as to births, marriages, mortality, health, etc.  -- Dem`o*graph"ic, a. 

DEMOISELLE:  The Numidian crane (Antropoides virgo); -- so called on account of the grace and symmetry of its form and movements.  3. (Zoöl.)  A beautiful, small dragon fly of the genus Agrion. 

DEMOLISH:  To throw or pull down; to raze; to destroy the fabric of; to pull to pieces; to ruin; as, to demolish an edifice, or a wall. I expected the fabric of my book would long since have been demolished, and laid even with the ground. Tillotson.  Syn.  -- To Demolish, Overturn, Destroy, Dismantle, Raze. That is overturned or overthrown which had stood upright; that is destroyed whose component parts are scattered; that is demolished which had formed a mass or structure; that is dismantled which is stripped of its covering, as a vessel of its sails, or a fortress of its bastions, etc.; that is razed which is brought down smooth, and level to the ground. An ancient pillar is overturned or overthrown as the result of decay; as city is destroyed by an invasion of its enemies; a monument, the walls of a castle, a church, or any structure, real or imaginary, may be demolished; a fortress may be dismantled from motives of prudence, in order to render it defenseless; a city may be razed by way of punishment, and its ruins become a memorial of vengeance. 

DEMOLISHER:  One who, or that which, demolishes; as, a demolisher of towns. 

DEMOLISHMENT:  Demolition. 

DEMOLITION:  The act of overthrowing, pulling down, or destroying a pile or structure; destruction by violence; utter overthrow; -- opposed to construction; as, the demolition of a house, of military works, of a town, or of hopes. 

DEMOLITIONIST:  A demolisher. [R.] Carlyle. 

DEMON:  A spirit, or immaterial being, holding a middle place between men and deities in pagan mythology. The demon kind is of an inSydenham.  2. One's genius; a tutelary spirit or internal voice; as, the demon of Socrates. [Often written dæmon.]  3. An evil spirit; a devil. That same demon that hath gulled thee thus. Shak. 

DEMONESS:  A female demon. 

DEMONETIZATION:  The act of demonetizing, or the condition of being demonetized. 

DEMONETIZE:  To deprive of current value; to withdraw from use, as money. They [gold mohurs] have been completely demonetized by the [East India] Company. R. Cobden.  DEMONIAC; DEMONIACAL De*mo"ni*ac, Dem`o*ni"a*cal, a. Etym: [L. daemoniacus, fr. daemon; cf. F. démoniaque. See Demon.]  1. Pertaining to, or characteristic of, a demon or evil spirit; devilish; as, a demoniac being; demoniacal practices. Sarcastic, demoniacal laughter. Thackeray.  2. Influenced or produced by a demon or evil spirit; as, demoniac or demoniacal power. "Demoniac frenzy." Milton. 

DEMONIAC:  One of a sect of Anabaptists who maintain that the demons or devils will finally be saved. 

DEMONIACALLY:  In a demoniacal manner. 

DEMONIACISM:  The state of being demoniac, or the practices of demoniacs. 

DEMONIAL:  Of or pertaining to a demon. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

DEMONIAN:  Relating to, or having the nature of, a demon. "Demonian spirits." Milton. 

DEMONIANISM:  The state of being possessed by a demon or by demons. 

DEMONIASM:  See Demonianism. [R.] 

DEMONIC:  Of or pertaining to a demon or to demons; demoniac. "Demonic ambushes." Lowell. 

DEMONISM:  The belief in demons or false gods. The established theology of the heathen world . . . rested upon the basis of demonism. Farmer. 

DEMONIST:  A believer in, or worshiper of, demons. 

DEMONOCRACY:  The power or government of demons. A demonocracy of unclean spirits. H. Taylor. 

DEMONOGRAPHER:  A demonologist. [R.] Am. Cyc. 

DEMONOLATRY:  The worship of demons. 

DEMONOLOGER:  One versed in demonology. R. North.  DEMONOLOGIC; DEMONOLOGICAL De`mon*o*log"ic, De`mon*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. démonologique.]  Of or Pertaining to demonology. 

DEMONOLOGIST:  One who writes on, or is versed in, demonology. 

DEMONOLOGY:  A treatise on demons; a supposititious science which treats of demons and their manifestations. Sir W. Scott. 

DEMONOMAGY:  Magic in which the aid of demons is invoked; black or infernal magic. Bp. Hurd. 

DEMONOMANIA:  A form of madness in which the patient conceives himself possessed of devils. 

DEMONOMIST:  One in subjection to a demon, or to demons. [R.] Sir T. Herbert. 

DEMONOMY:  The dominion of demons. [R.] Sir T. Herbert. 

DEMONRY:  Demoniacal influence or possession. J. Baillie. 

DEMONSHIP:  The state of a demon. Mede. 

DEMONSTRABILITY:  The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrableness. 

DEMONSTRABLENESS:  The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrability. 

DEMONSTRABLY:  In a demonstrable manner; incontrovertibly; clearly. Cases that demonstrably concerned the public cause. Clarendon. 

DEMONSTRANCE:  Demonstration; proof. [Obs.] Holland. 

DEMONSTRATE:  To exhibit and explain (a dissection or other anatomical preparation). 

DEMONSTRATER:  See Demonstrator. 

DEMONSTRATION:  The exhibition and explanation of a dissection or other anatomical preparation.  4. (Mil.) a decisive exhibition of force, or a movement indicating an attack.  5. (Logic)  The act of proving by the syllogistic process, or the proof itself.  6. (Math.)  A course of reasoning showing that a certain result is a necessary consequence of assumed premises; -- these premises being definitions, axioms, and previously established propositions. Direct, or Positive, demonstration (Logic & Math.), one in which the correct conclusion is the immediate sequence of reasoning from axiomatic or established premises; -- opposed to Indirect, or Negative, demonstration (called also reductio ad absurdum), in which the correct conclusion is an inference from the demonstration that any other hypothesis must be incorrect. 

DEMONSTRATIVE:  A demonstrative pronoun; as, "this" and "that" are demonstratives. 

DEMONSTRATIVELY:  In a manner fitted to demonstrate; clearly; convincingly; forcibly. 

DEMONSTRATIVENESS:  The state or quality of being demonstrative. 

DEMONSTRATOR:  A teacher of practical anatomy. 

DEMONSTRATORY:  Tending to demonstrate; demonstrative. Johnson. 

DEMORAGE:  Demurrage. [Obs.] Pepys (1663). 

DEMORALIZATION:  The act of corrupting or subverting morals. Especially: The act of corrupting or subverting discipline, courage, hope, etc., or the state of being corrupted or subverted in discipline, courage, etc.; as, the demoralization of an army or navy. 

DEMORALIZE:  To corrupt or undermine in morals; to destroy or lessen the effect of moral principles on; to render corrupt or untrustworthy in morals, in discipline, in courage, spirit, etc.; to weaken in spirit or efficiency. The demoralizing example of profligate power and prosperous crime. Walsh. The vices of the nobility had demoralized the army. Bancroft. 

DEMOSTHENIC:  Pertaining to, or in the style of, Demosthenes, the Grecian orator. 

DEMOTE:  To reduce to a lower grade, as in school. 

DEMOTIC:  Of or pertaining to the people; popular; common. Demotic alphabet or character, a form of writing used in Egypt after six or seven centuries before Christ, for books, deeds, and other such writings; a simplified form of the hieratic character; -- called also epistolographic character, and enchorial character. See Enchorial. 

DEMOTICS:  The department of knowledge relative to the care and culture of the people; sociology in its broadest sense; -- in library cataloguing. 

DEMOUNT:  To dismount. [R.] 

DEMOUNTABLE:  Capable of being dismounted; -- said of a form of rim, for an automobile wheel, which can be removed with its tire from the wheel. 

DEMPNE:  To damn; to condemn. [Obs.] Chaucer.  DEMPSTER; DEMSTER Demp"ster, Dem"ster, n. Etym: [See Deemster.]  1. A deemster.  2. (O. Scots Law)  An officer whose duty it was to announce the doom or sentence pronounced by the court. 

DEMULCE:  To soothe; to mollify; to pacify; to soften. [R.] Sir T. Elyot. 

DEMULCENT:  Softening; mollifying; soothing; assuasive; as, oil is demulcent. 

DEMULCENT:  A substance, usually of a mucilaginous or oily nature, supposed to be capable of soothing an inflamed nervous membrane, or protecting i 

DEMULSION:  The act of soothing; that which soothes. Feltham. 

DEMUR:  To interpose a demurrer. See Demurrer, 2. 

DEMUR:  Stop; pause; hesitation as to proceeding; suspense of decision or action; scruple. All my demurs but double his attacks; At last he whispers, "Do; and we go snacks." Pope. 

DEMURE:  To look demurely. [Obs.] Shak. 

DEMURELY:  In a demure manner; soberly; gravely; -- now, commonly, with a mere show of gravity or modesty. They . . . looked as demurely as they could; for 't was a hanging matter to laugh unseasonably. Dryden. 

DEMURENESS:  The state of being demure; gravity; the show of gravity or modesty. 

DEMURITY:  Demureness; also, one who is demure. Sir T. Browne. 

DEMURRABLE:  That may be demurred to. Stormonth. 

DEMURRAL:  Demur; delay in acting or deciding. The same causes of demurral existed which prevented British troops from assisting in the expulsion of the French from Rome. Southey. 

DEMURRER:  A stop or pause by a party to an action, for the judgment of the court on the question, whether, assuming the truth of the matter alleged by the opposite party, it is sufficient in law to sustain the action or defense, and hence whether the party resting is bound to answer or proceed further. Demurrer to evidence, an exception taken by a party to the evidence offered by the opposite party, and an objecting to proceed further, on the allegation that such evidence is not sufficient in law to maintain the issue, and a reference to the court to determine the point. Bouvier. 

DEMY:  Pertaining to, or made of, the size of paper called demy; as, a demy book. 

DEN:  A narrow glen; a ravine; a dell. [Old Eng. & Scotch] Shak. 

DEN:  To live in, or as in, a den. The sluggish salvages that den below. G. Fletcher. 

DENARCOTIZE:  To deprive of narcotine; as, to denarcotize opium.  -- De*nar`co*ti*za"tion, n. 

DENARIUS:  A Roman silver coin of the value of about fourteen cents; the "penny" of the New Testament; -- so called from being worth originally ten of the pieces called as. 

DENARY:  Containing ten; tenfold; proceeding by tens; as, the denary, or decimal, scale. 

DENATIONALIZATION:  The or process of denationalizing. 

DENATIONALIZE:  To divest or deprive of national character or rights. Bonaparte's decree denationalizes, as he calls it, all ships that have touched at a British port. Cobbett. An expatriated, denationalized race. G. Eliot. 

DENATURE:  To deprive of its natural qualities; change the nature of. 

DENAY:  To deny. [Obs.] That with great rage he stoutly doth denay. Spenser. 

DENAY:  Denial; refusal. [Obs.] Shak. 

DENDRACHATE:  Arborescent or dendritic agate. 

DENDRIFORM:  Resembling in structure a tree or shrub. 

DENDRITE:  A stone or mineral on or in which are branching figures resembling shrubs or trees, produced by a foreign mineral, usually an oxide of manganese, as in the moss agate; also, a crystallized mineral having an arborescent form, e. g., gold or silver; an arborization.  DENDRITIC; DENDRITICAL Den*drit"ic, Den*drit"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to a dendrite, or to arborescent crystallization; having a form resembling a shrub or tree; arborescent. 

DENDROCOELA:  A division of the Turbellaria in which the digestive cavity gives off lateral branches, which are often divided into smaller branchlets.  DENDROID; DENDROIDAL Den"droid, Den*droid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. dendroïde.]  Resembling a shrub or tree in form; treelike. 

DENDROLITE:  A petrified or fossil shrub, plant, or part of a plant. 

DENDROLOGIST:  One versed in the natural history of trees. 

DENDROLOGOUS:  Relating to dendrology. 

DENDROLOGY:  A discourse or treatise on trees; the natural history of trees. 

DENDROMETER:  An instrument to measure the height and diameter of trees. 

DENEGATE:  To deny. [Obs.] 

DENEGATION:  Denial. [Obs.] 

DENGUE:  A specific epidemic disease attended with high fever, cutaneous eruption, and severe pains in the head and limbs, resembling those of rheumatism; -- called also breakbone fever. It occurs in India, Egypt, the West Indies, etc., is of short duration, and rarely fatal.  Note: This disease, when it first appeared in the British West India Islands, was called the dandy fever, from the stiffness and constraint which it grave to the limbs and body. The Spaniards of the neighboring islands mistook the term for their word dengue, denoting prudery, which might also well express stiffness, and hence the term dengue became, as last, the name of the disease. Tully. 

DENIABLE:  Capable of being, or liable to be, denied. 

DENIANCE:  Denial. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

DENIER:  One who denies; as, a denier of a fact, or of the faith, or of Christ. 

DENIER:  A small copper coin of insignificant value. My dukedom to a beggarly denier. Shak. 

DENIGRATOR:  One who, or that which, blackens. 

DENIM:  A coarse cotton drilling used for overalls, etc. 

DENITRATION:  A disengaging, or removal, of nitric acid. 

DENITRIFICATION:  The act or process of freeing from nitrogen; also, the condition resulting from the removal of nitrogen. 

DENITRIFY:  To deprive of, or free from, nitrogen. 

DENIZATION:  The act of making one a denizen or adopted citizen; naturalization. Hallam. 

DENIZE:  To make a denizen; to confer the rights of citizenship upon; to naturalize. [Obs.] There was a private act made for denizing the children of Richard HillStrype. 

DENIZENATION:  Denization; denizening. Abbott. 

DENIZENIZE:  To constitute (one) a denizen; to denizen. Abbott. 

DENIZENSHIP:  State of being a denizen.  DENMARK SATIN Den"mark sat"in.  See under Satin. 

DENNET:  A light, open, two-wheeled carriage for one horse; a kind of gig. ("The term and vehicle common about 1825." Latham.) 

DENOMINABLE:  Capable of being denominated or named. Sir T. Browne. 

DENOMINATE:  To give a name to; to characterize by an epithet; to entitle; to name; to designate. Passions commonly denominating selfish. Hume. 

DENOMINATE:  Having a specific name or denomination; specified in the concrete as opposed to abstract; thus, 7 feet is a denominate quantity, while 7 is mere abstract quantity or number. See Compound number, under Compound. 

DENOMINATIONAL:  Pertaining to a denomination, especially to a sect or society. "Denominational differences." Buckle. 

DENOMINATIONALISM:  A denominational or class spirit or policy; devotion to the interests of a sect or denomination. 

DENOMINATIONALIST:  One imbued with a denominational spirit. The Century. 

DENOMINATIONALLY:  In a denominational manner; by denomination or sect. 

DENOMINATIVE:  Connotative; as, a denominative name.  3. Possessing, or capable of possessing, a distinct denomination or designation; denominable. The least denominative part of time is a minute. Cocker.  4. (Gram.)  Derived from a substantive or an adjective; as, a denominative verb. 

DENOMINATIVE:  A denominative name or term; denominative verb. Jer. Taylor. Harkness. 

DENOMINATIVELY:  By denomination. 

DENOMINATOR:  That number placed below the line in vulgar fractions which shows into how many parts the integer or unit is divided.  Note: Thus, in denominator, showing that the integer is divided into five parts; and the numerator, 3, shows how many parts are taken.  3. (Alg.)  That part of any expression under a fractional form which is situated below the horizontal line signifying division.  Note: In this sense, the denominator is not necessarily a number, but may be any expression, either positive or negative, real or imaginary. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ) 

DENOTABLE:  Capable of being denoted or marked. Sir T. Browne. 

DENOTATE:  To mark off; to denote. [Archaic] These terms denotate a longer time. Burton. What things should be denotated and signified by the color. Urquhart. 

DENOTATION:  The marking off or separation of anything. Hammond. 

DENOTATIVE:  Having power to denote; designating or marking off. Proper names are preëminently denotative; telling us that such as object has such a term to denote it, but telling us nothing as to any single attribute. Latham. 

DENOTEMENT:  Sign; indication. [R.]  Note: A word found in some editions of Shakespeare. 

DENOTIVE:  Serving to denote. 

DENOUNCEMENT:  Solemn, official, or menacing announcement; denunciation. [Archaic] False is the reply of Cain, upon the denouncement of his curse. Sir T. Browne. 

DENOUNCER:  One who denounces, or declares, as a menace. Here comes the sad denouncer of my fate. Dryden. 

DENSELY:  In a dense, compact manner. 

DENSENESS:  The quality of being dense; density. 

DENSIMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity or density of a substance. 

DENSITY:  The ratio of mass, or quantity of matter, to bulk or volume, esp. as compared with the mass and volume of a portion of some substance used as a standard.  Note: For gases the standard substance is hydrogen, at a temperature of 0º Centigrade and a pressure of 760 millimeters. For liquids and solids the standard is water at a temperature of 4º Centigrade. The density of solids and liquids is usually called specific gravity, and the same is true of gases when referred to air as a standard.  3. (Photog.)  Depth of shade. Abney. 

DENT:  To make a dent upon; to indent. The houses dented with bullets. Macaulay. 

DENT:  A tooth, as of a card, a gear wheel, etc. Knight. 

DENTAL:  Formed by the aid of the teeth; -- said of certain articulations and the letters representing them; as, d t are dental letters. Dental formula (Zoöl.), a brief notation used by zoölogists to denote the number and kind of teeth of a mammal.  -- Dental surgeon, a dentist. 

DENTAL:  A marine mollusk of the genus Dentalium, with a curved conical shell resembling a tooth. See Dentalium. 

DENTALISM:  The quality of being formed by the aid of the teeth. 

DENTALIUM:  A genus of marine mollusks belonging to the Scaphopoda, having a tubular conical shell. 

DENTARY:  Pertaining to, or bearing, teeth.  -- n.  The distal bone of the lower jaw in many animals, which may or may not bear teeth.  DENTATE; DENTATED Den"tate, Den"ta*ted, a. Etym: [L. dentatus, fr. dens, dentis, tooth.]  1. (Bot.)  Toothed; especially, with the teeth projecting straight out, not pointed either forward or backward; as, a dentate leaf.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having teeth or toothlike points. See Illust. of Antennæ.  DENTATE-CILIATE Den"tate-cil"i*ate, a. (Bot.)  Having the margin dentate and also ciliate or fringed with hairs. 

DENTATELY:  In a dentate or toothed manner; as, dentately ciliated, etc.  DENTATE-SINUATE Den"tate-sin"u*ate, a. (Bot.)  Having a form intermediate between dentate and sinuate. 

DENTATION:  Formation of teeth; toothed form. [R.] How did it [a bill] get its barb, its dentation Paley. 

DENTED:  Indented; impressed with little hollows. 

DENTEL:  Same as Dentil. 

DENTELLE:  An ornamental tooling like lace. Knight. 

DENTELLI:  Modillions. Spectator. 

DENTEX:  An edible European marine fish (Sparus dentex, or Dentex vulgaris) of the family Percidæ. 

DENTICETE:  The division of Cetacea in which the teeth are developed, including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc. 

DENTICLE:  A small tooth or projecting point.  DENTICULATE; DENTICULATED Den*tic"u*late, Den*tic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. denticulatus, fr. denticulus. See Denticle.]  Furnished with denticles; notched into little toothlike projections; as, a denticulate leaf of calyx.  -- Den*tic"u*late*ly, adv. 

DENTICULATION:  A diminutive tooth; a denticle. 

DENTIFEROUS:  Bearing teeth; dentigerous. 

DENTIFORM:  Having the form of a tooth or of teeth; tooth-shaped. 

DENTIFRICE:  A powder or other substance to be used in cleaning the teeth; tooth powder. 

DENTIGEROUS:  Bearing teeth or toothlike structures. 

DENTIL:  A small square block or projection in cornices, a number of which are ranged in an ornamental band; -- used particularly in the Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite orders. 

DENTILABIAL:  Formed by the teeth and the lips, or representing a sound so formed.  -- n.  A dentilabial sound or letter. 

DENTILATED:  Toothed. 

DENTILATION:  Dentition. 

DENTILAVE:  A wash for cleaning the teeth. 

DENTILE:  A small tooth, like that of a saw. 

DENTILINGUAL:  Produced by applying the tongue to the teeth or to the gums; or representing a sound so formed.  -- n.  A dentilingual sound or letter. The letters of this fourth, dentilingual or linguidental, class, viz., d, t, s, z, l, r. Am. Cyc. 

DENTILOQUIST:  One who speaks through the teeth, that is, with the teeth closed. 

DENTILOQUY:  The habit or practice of speaking through the teeth, or with them closed. 

DENTINAL:  Of or pertaining to dentine. 

DENTINE:  The dense calcified substance of which teeth are largely composed. It contains less animal matter than bone, and in the teeth of man is situated beneath the enamel. 

DENTIPHONE:  An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to the auditory nerve; an audiphone. Knight. 

DENTIROSTER:  A dentirostral bird. 

DENTIROSTRAL:  Having a toothed bill; -- applied to a group of passerine birds, having the bill notched, and feeding chiefly on insects, as the shrikes and vireos. See Illust. (N) under Beak. 

DENTIROSTRATE:  Dentirostral. 

DENTISCALP:  An instrument for scraping the teeth. 

DENTIST:  One whose business it is to clean, extract, or repair natural teeth, and to make and insert artificial ones; a dental surgeon.  DENTISTIC; DENTISTICAL Den*tis"tic, Den*tis"ti*cal, a.  Pertaining to dentistry or to dentists. [R.] 

DENTISTRY:  The art or profession of a dentist; dental surgery. 

DENTITION:  The system of teeth peculiar to an animal. 

DENTIZE:  To breed or cut new teeth. [R.] The old countess . . . did dentize twice or thrice. Bacon. 

DENTOID:  Shaped like a tooth; tooth-shaped. 

DENTOLINGUAL:  Dentilingual. 

DENTURE:  An artificial tooth, block, or set of teeth. 

DENUDATE:  To denude. [Obs. or R.] 

DENUDATION:  The laying bare of rocks by the washing away of the overlying earth, etc.; or the excavation and removal of them by the action of running water. 

DENUDE:  To divest of all covering; to make bare or naked; to strip; to divest; as, to denude one of clothing, or lands. 

DENUNCIATE:  To denounce; to condemn publicly or solemnly. [R.] To denunciate this new work. Burke. 

DENUNCIATIVE:  Same as Denunciatory. Farrar. 

DENUNCIATOR:  One who denounces, publishes, or proclaims, especially intended or coming evil; one who threatens or accuses. 

DENUNCIATORY:  Characterized by or containing a denunciation; minatory; accusing; threatening; as, severe and denunciatory language. 

DENUTRITION:  The opposition of nutrition; the failure of nutrition causing the breaking down of tissue. 

DENY:  To answer in Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. Gen. xviii. 15. 

DENYINGLY:  In the manner of one denies a request. Tennyson. 

DEOBSTRUCT:  To remove obstructions or impediments in; to clear from anything that hinders the passage of fluids; as, to deobstruct the pores or lacteals. Arbuthnot. 

DEOBSTRUENT:  Removing obstructions; having power to clear or open the natural ducts of the fluids and secretions of the body; aperient.  -- n.  (Med.) A medicine which removes obstructions; an aperient. 

DEODAND:  A personal chattel which had caused the death of a person, and for that reason was given to God, that is, forfeited to the crown, to be applied to pious uses, and distributed in alms by the high almoner. Thus, if a cart ran over a man and killed him, it was forfeited as a deodand.  Note: Deodands are unknown in American law, and in 1846 were abolished in England. 

DEODAR:  A kind of cedar (Cedrus Deodara), growing in India, highly valued for its size and beauty as well as for its timber, and also grown in England as an ornamental tree. 

DEODATE:  A gift or offering to God. [Obs.] Wherein that blessed widow's deodate was laid up. Hooker. 

DEODORANT:  A deodorizer. 

DEODORIZATION:  The act of depriving of odor, especially of offensive odors resulting from impurities. 

DEODORIZE:  To deprive of odor, especially of such as results from impurities. 

DEODORIZER:  He who, or that which, deodorizes; esp., an agent that destroys offensive odors. 

DEONERATE:  To unload; to disburden. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

DEONTOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to deontology. 

DEONTOLOGIST:  One versed in deontology. 

DEONTOLOGY:  The science relat J. Bentham. 

DEOPERCULATE:  Having the lid removed; -- said of the capsules of mosses. 

DEOPPILATE:  To free from obstructions; to clear a passage through. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DEOPPILATION:  Removal of whatever stops up the passages. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DEOPPILATIVE:  Deobstruent; aperient. [Obs.] Harvey. 

DEORDINATION:  Disorder; dissoluteness. [Obs.] Excess of rideordination. Jer. Taylor. 

DEOSCULATE:  To kiss warmly. [Obs.] -- De*os`cu*la"tion, n. [Obs.] 

DEOXIDATE:  To deoxidize. 

DEOXIDATION:  The act or process of reducing from the state of an oxide. 

DEOXIDIZATION:  Deoxidation. 

DEOXIDIZE:  To deprive of oxygen; to reduce from the state of an oxide. 

DEOXIDIZER:  That which removes oxygen; hence, a reducing agent; as, nascent hydrogen is a deoxidizer. 

DEOXYGENATE:  To deoxidize. [Obs.] 

DEOXYGENATION:  The act or operation of depriving of oxygen. 

DEOXYGENIZE:  To deoxidize. 

DEPAINT:  Painted. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEPAINTER:  One who depaints. [Obs.] 

DEPARDIEUX:  In God's name; certainly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEPARTABLE:  Divisible. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DEPARTMENTAL:  Pertaining to a department or division. Burke.  DEPARTMENT STORE De*part"ment store.  A store keeping a great variety of goods which are arranged in several departments, esp. one with dry goods as the principal stock. 

DEPARTURE:  The desertion by a party to any pleading of the ground taken by him in his last antecedent pleading, and the adoption of another. Bouvier.  6. (Nav. & Surv.)  The distance due east or west which a person or ship passes over in going along an oblique line.  Note: Since the meridians sensibly converge, the departure in navigation is not measured from the beginning nor from the end of the ship's course, but is regarded as the total easting or westing made by the ship or person as he travels over the course. To take a departure (Nav. & Surv.), to ascertain, usually by taking bearings from a landmark, the position of a vessel at the beginning of a voyage as a point from which to begin her dead reckoning; as, the ship took her departure from Sandy Hook.  Syn.  -- Death; demise; release. See Death. 

DEPASCENT:  Feeding. [R.] 

DEPASTURE:  To pasture; to feed; to graze; also, to use for pasture. [R.] Cattle, to graze and departure in his grounds. Blackstone. A right to cut wood upon or departure land. Washburn. 

DEPATRIATE:  To withdraw, or cause to withdraw, from one's country; to banish. [Obs.] A subject born in any state May, if he please, depatriate. Mason. 

DEPAUPERATE:  To make poor; to impoverish. Liming does not depauperate; the ground will last long, and bear large grain. Mortimer. Humility of mind which depauperates the spirit. Jer. Taylor. 

DEPAUPERATE:  Falling short of the natural size, from being impoverished or starved. Gray. 

DEPAUPERIZE:  To free from paupers; to rescue from poverty. [R.] 

DEPEACH:  To discharge. [Obs.] As soon as the party . . . before our justices shall be depeached. Hakluyt. 

DEPECTIBLE:  Tough; thick; capable of extension. [Obs.] Some bodies are of a more depectible nature than oil. Bacon. 

DEPECULATION:  A robbing or embezzlement. [Obs.] Depeculation of the public treasure. Hobbes. 

DEPEINCT:  To paint. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DEPENDABLE:  Worthy of being depended on; trustworthy. "Dependable friendships." Pope.  DEPENDANT; DEPENDANCE; DEPENDANCY De*pend"ant, De*pend"ance, n., De*pend"an*cy, n.  See Dependent, Dependence, Dependency.  Note: The forms dependant, dependance, dependancy are from the French; the forms dependent, etc., are from the Latin. Some authorities give preference to the form dependant when the word is a noun, thus distinguishing it from the adjective, usually written dependent. 

DEPENDENTLY:  In a dependent manner. 

DEPENDER:  One who depends; a dependent. 

DEPENDINGLY:  As having dependence. Hale. 

DEPEOPLE:  To depopulate. [Obs.] 

DEPERDIT:  That which is lost or destroyed. [R.] Paley. 

DEPERDITELY:  , adv. Hopelessly; despairingly; in the manner of one ruined; as, deperditely wicked. [Archaic] 

DEPERDITION:  Loss; destruction. [Archaic] Sir T. Browne. 

DEPERTIBLE:  Divisible. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DEPHASE:  To put out of phase, as two parts of a single alternating current. 

DEPHLEGM:  To rid of phlegm or water; to dephlegmate. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DEPHLEGMATE:  To deprive of superabundant water, as by evaporation or distillation; to clear of aqueous matter; to rectify; -- used of spirits and acids. 

DEPHLEGMATION:  The operation of separating water from spirits and acids, by evaporation or repeated distillation; -- called also concentration, especially when acids are the subject of it. [Obs.] 

DEPHLEGMATOR:  An instrument or apparatus in which water is separated by evaporation or distillation; the part of a distilling apparatus in which the separation of the vapors is effected. 

DEPHLEGMATORY:  Pertaining to, or producing, dephlegmation. 

DEPHLEGMEDNESS:  A state of being freed from water. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DEPHLOGISTICCATE:  To deprive of phlogiston, or the supposed principle of inflammability. Priestley. Dephlogisticated air, oxygen gas; -- so called by Dr. Priestly and others of his time.  -- De`phlo*gis`ti*ca"tion, n. 

DEPHOSPHORIZATION:  The act of freeing from phosphorous. 

DEPICT:  Depicted. Lydgate. 

DEPICT:  Depicted. Lydgate. 

DEPICTION:  A painting or depicting; a representation. 

DEPICTURE:  To make a picture of; to paint; to picture; to depict. Several persons were depictured in caricature. Fielding. 

DEPILATE:  To strip of hair; to husk. Venner. 

DEPILATION:  Act of pulling out or removing the hair; unhairing. Dryden. 

DEPILATORY:  Having the quality or power of removing hair.  -- n.  An application used to take off hair. 

DEPILOUS:  Hairless. Sir t. Browne. 

DEPLANATE:  Flattened; made level or even. 

DEPLANT:  To take up (plants); to transplant. [R.] 

DEPLANTATION:  Act of taking up plants from beds. 

DEPLETE:  To empty or unload, as the vessels of human system, by bloodletting or by medicine. Copland.  2. To reduce by destroying or consuming the vital powers of; to exhaust, as a country of its strength or resources, a treasury of money, etc. Saturday Review. 

DEPLETION:  the act or process of diminishing the quantity of fluid in the vessels by bloodletting or otherwise; also excessive evacuation, as in severe diarrhea. 

DEPLETIVE:  Able or fitted to deplete.  -- n.  A substance used to deplete. 

DEPLETORY:  Serving to deplete. 

DEPLICATION:  An unfolding, untwisting, or unplaiting. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

DEPLOITATION:  Same as Exploitation. 

DEPLORABILITY:  Deplorableness. Stormonth. 

DEPLORABLE:  Worthy of being deplored or lamented; lamentable; causing grief; hence, sad; calamitous; grievous; wretched; as, life's evils are deplorable. Individual sufferers are in a much more deplorable conditious than any others. Burke. 

DEPLORABLENESS:  State of being deplorable. 

DEPLORABLY:  In a deplorable manner. 

DEPLORATE:  Deplorable. [Obs.] A more deplorate estate. Baker. 

DEPLORATION:  The act of deploring or lamenting; lamentation. Speed. 

DEPLORE:  To lament. Gray. 

DEPLOREDLY:  Lamentably. 

DEPLOREDNESS:  The state of being deplored or deplorable. [R.] Bp. Hail. 

DEPLOREMENT:  Deploration. [Obs.] 

DEPLORER:  One who deplores. 

DEPLORINGLY:  In a deploring manner. 

DEPLOY:  To open out; to unfold; to spread out (a body of troops) in such a way that they shall display a wider front and less depth; -- the reverse of ploy; as, to deploy a column of troops into line of battle.  DEPLOY; DEPLOYMENT De*ploy", De*ploy"ment, n. (Mil.)  The act of deploying; a spreading out of a body of men in order to extend their front. -Wilhelm. Deployments . . . which cause the soldier to turn his back to the enemy are not suited to war.H.L. Scott. 

DEPLUMATE:  Destitute or deprived of features; deplumed. 

DEPLUMATION:  A disease of the eyelids, attended with loss of the eyelashes. Thomas. 

DEPOLARIZATION:  The act of depriving of polarity, or the result of such action; reduction to an unpolarized condition. Depolarization of light (Opt.), a change in the plane of polarization of rays, especially by a crystalline medium, such that the light which had been extinguished by the analyzer reappears as if the polarization had been anulled. The word is inappropriate, as the ray does not return to the unpolarized condition. 

DEPOLARIZE:  To deprive of polarity; to reduce to an unpolarized condition.  Note: This word has been inaccurately applied in optics to describe the effect of a polarizing medium, as a crystalline plate, in causing the reappearance of a ray, in consequence of a change in its plane of polarization, which previously to the change was intercepted by the analyzer.  2. (Elec.)  To free from polarization, as the negative plate of the voltaic battery. 

DEPOLARIZER:  A substance used to prevent polarization, as upon the negative plate of a voltaic battery. 

DEPOLISH:  To remove the polish or glaze from. 

DEPOLISHING:  The process of removing the vitreous glaze from porcelain, leaving the dull luster of the surface of ivory porcelian. Knight. 

DEPONE:  To testify under oath; to depose; to bear witness. [A Scotticism] The fairy Glorians, whose credibility on this point can not be called in question, depones to the confinement of Merlin in a tree. Dunlop. 

DEPONENT:  One who deposes or testifies under oath; one who gives evidence; usually, one who testifies in writing.  2. (Gr. & Lat. Gram.)  A deponent verb.  Syn.  -- Deponent, Affiant. These are legal terms describing a person who makes a written declaration under oath, with a view to establish certain facts. An affiant is one who makes an affidavit, or declaration under oath, in order to establish the truth of what he says. A deponenet is one who makes a deposition, or gives written testimony under oath, to be used in the trial of some case before a court of justice. See under Deposition. 

DEPONENT:  Having a passive form with an active meaning, as certain latin and Greek verbs. 

DEPOPULACY:  Depopulation; destruction of population. [R.] Chapman. 

DEPOPULATE:  To deprive of inhabitants, whether by death or by expulsion; to reduce greatly the populousness of; to dispeople; to unpeople. Where is this viper, That would depopulate the city Shak.  Note: It is not synonymous with laying waste or destroying, being limited to the loss of inhabitants; as, an army or a famine may depopulate a country. It rarely expresses an entire loss of inhabitants, but often a great diminution of their numbers; as, the deluge depopulated the earth. 

DEPOPULATE:  To become dispeopled. [R.] Whether the country be depopulating or not. Goldsmith. 

DEPOPULATION:  The act of depopulating, or condition of being depopulated; destruction or explusion of inhabitants. The desolation and depopulation [of St.Quentin] were now complete. Motley. 

DEPOPULATOR:  One who depopulates; a dispeopler. 

DEPORT:  Behavior; carrige; demeanor; deportment. [Obs.] "Goddesslike deport." Milton. 

DEPORTATION:  The act of deporting or exiling, or the state of being deported; banishment; transportation. In their deportations, they had often the favor of their conquerors. Atterbury. 

DEPORTMENT:  Manner of deporting or demeaning one's self; manner of acting; conduct; carrige; especially, manner of acting with respect to the courtesies and duties of life; behavior; demeanor; bearing. The gravity of his deportment carried him safe through many difficulties. Swift. 

DEPORTURE:  Deportment. [Obs.] Stately port and majestical deporture. Speed. 

DEPOSABLE:  Capable of being deposed or deprived of office. Howell. 

DEPOSAL:  The act of deposing from office; a removal from the throne. Fox. 

DEPOSE:  To bear witness; to testify under oath; to make deposition. Then, seeing't was he that made you to despose, Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous. Shak. 

DEPOSIT:  A natural occurrence of a useful mineral under the conditions to invite exploitation. Raymond.  3. That which is placed anywhere, or in any one's hands, for safe keeping; somthing intrusted to the care of another; esp., money lodged with a bank or banker, subject to order; anything given as pledge or security.  4. (Law) (a) A bailment of money or goods to be kept gratuitously for the bailor. (b) Money lodged with a party as earnest or security for the performance of a duty assumed by the person depositing.  5. A place of deposit; a depository. [R.] Bank of deposit. See under Bank.  -- In deposit, or On deposit, in trust or safe keeping as a deposit; as, coins were recieved on deposit. 

DEPOSITARY:  One to whom goods are bailed, to be kept for the bailor without a recompense. Kent. 

DEPOSITION:  The act of laying down one's testimony in writing; also, testimony laid or taken down in writting, under oath or affirmation, befor some competent officer, and in reply to interrogatories and cross-interrogatories.  Syn.  -- Deposition, Affidavit. Affidavit is the wider term. It denotes any authorized ex parte written statement of a person, sworn to or affirmed before some competent magistrate. It is made without cross- examination, and requires no notice to an opposing party. It is generally signed by the party making it, and may be drawn up by himself or any other person. A deposition is the written testimony of a witness, taken down in due form of law, and sworn to or affirmed by the deponent. It must be taken before some authorized magistrate, and upon a prescribed or reasonable notice to the opposing party, that may attend and cross-examine. It is generally written down from the mouth of the witness by the magistrate, or some person for him, and in his presence. 

DEPOSITOR:  One who makes a deposit, especially of money in bank; -- the correlative of depository. 

DEPOSITUM:  Deposit. 

DEPOSITURE:  The act of depositing; deposition. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DEPPER:  Deeper. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEPRAVATION:  Change for the worse; deterioration; morbid perversion.  Syn.  -- Depravity; corruption. See Depravity. 

DEPRAVEDLY:  In a depraved manner. 

DEPRAVEDNESS:  Depravity. Hammond. 

DEPRAVEMENT:  Depravity. [Obs.] Milton. 

DEPRAVER:  One who deprave or corrupts. 

DEPRAVINGLY:  In a depraving manner. 

DEPRAVITY:  The stae of being depraved or corrupted; a vitiated state of moral character; general badness of character; wickedness of mind or heart; absence of religious feeling and principle. Total depravity. See Original sin, and Calvinism.  Syn.  -- Corruption; vitiation; wickedness; vice; contamination; degeneracy.  -- Depravity, Depravation, Corruption. Depravilty is a vitiated state of mind or feeling; as, the depravity of the human heart; depravity of public morals. Depravation points to the act or process of making depraved, and hence to the end thus reached; as, a gradual depravation of principle; a depravation of manners, of the heart, etc. Corruption is the only one of these words which applies to physical substances, and in reference to these denotes the process by which their component parts are dissolved. Hence, when figuratively used, it denotes an utter vitiation of principle or feeling. Depravity applies only to the mind and heart: we can speak of a depraved taste, or a corrupt taste; in the first we introduce the notion that there has been the influence of bad training to pervert; in the second, that there is a want of true principle to pervert; in the second, that there is a want of true principles to decide. The other two words have a wider use: we can speak of the depravation or the corruption of taste and public sentiment. Depravity is more or less open; corruption is more or less disguised in its operations. What is depraved requires to be reformed; what is corrupt requires to be purified. 

DEPRECABLE:  That may or should be deprecated. Paley. 

DEPRECATE:  To pray against, as an evil; to seek to avert by player; to desire the removal of; to seek deliverance from; to express deep regret for; to disapprove of strongly. His purpose was deprecated by all round him, and he was with difficulty induced to adandon it. Sir W. Scott. 

DEPRECATINGLY:  In a deprecating manner. 

DEPRECATIVE:  Serving to deprecate; deprecatory.  -- Dep"re*ca*tive*ly, adv. 

DEPRECATOR:  One who deprecates. 

DEPRECATORY:  Serving to deprecate; tending to remove or avert evil by prayer; apologetic. Humble and deprecatory letters. Bacon. 

DEPRECIATE:  To lessen in price or estimated value; to lower the worth of; to represent as of little value or claim to esteem; to undervalue. Addison. Which . . . some over-severe phoilosophers may look upon fastidiously, or undervalue and depreciate. Cudworth. To prove that the Americans ought not to be free, we are obliged to depreciate the value of freedom itself. Burke.  Syn.  -- To decry; disparage; traduce; lower; detract; underrate. See Decry. 

DEPRECIATE:  To fall in value; to become of less worth; to sink in estimation; as, a paper currency will depreciate, unless it is convertible into specie. 

DEPRECIATIVE:  Tending, or intended, to depreciate; expressing depreciation; undervaluing.  -- De*pre"ci*a`tive*ly, adv. 

DEPRECIATOR:  One who depreciates. 

DEPRECIATORY:  Tending to depreciate; undervaluing; depreciative. 

DEPREDABLE:  Liable to depredation. [Obs.] "Made less depredable." Bacon. 

DEPREDATE:  To subject to plunder and pillage; to despoil; to lay waste; to prey upon. It makes the substance of the body . . . less apt to be consumed and depredated by the spirits. Bacon. 

DEPREDATE:  To take plunder or prey; to commit waste; as, the troops depredated on the country. 

DEPREDATION:  The act of depredating, or the state of being depredated; the act of despoiling or making inroads; as, the sea often makes depredation on the land. 

DEPREDATOR:  One who plunders or pillages; a spoiler; a robber. 

DEPREDATORY:  Tending or designed to depredate; characterized by depredation; plundering; as, a depredatory incursion. 

DEPREDICATE:  To proclaim; to celebrate. [R.] 

DEPREHENSIBLE:  That may be caught or discovered; apprehensible. [Obs.] Petty.  -- Dep`re*hen"si*ble*ness, n. [Obs.] 

DEPREHENSION:  A catching; discovery. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DEPRESS:  To reduce (an equation) in a lower degree. To depress the pole (Naut.), to cause the sidereal pole to appear lower or nearer the horizon, as by sailing toward the equator.  Syn.  -- To sink; lower; abase; cast down; deject; humble; degrade; dispirit; discourage. 

DEPRESS:  Having the middle lower than the border; concave. [Obs.] If the seal be depress or hollow. Hammond. 

DEPRESSANT:  An agent or remedy which lowers the vital powers. 

DEPRESSED:  Having the vertical diameter shorter than the horizontal or transverse; -- said of the bodies of animals, or of parts of the bodies. 

DEPRESSINGLY:  In a depressing manner. 

DEPRESSION:  The angular distance of a celestial object below the horizon.  8. (Math.)  The operation of reducing to a lower degree; -- said of equations.  9. (Surg.)  A method of operating for cataract; couching. See Couch, v. t., 8. Angle of depression (Geod.), one which a descending line makes with a horizontal plane.  -- Depression of the dewpoint (Meteor.), the number of degreees that the dew-point is lower than the actual temperature of the atmosphere.  -- Depression of the pole, its apparent sinking, as the spectator goes toward the equator.  -- Depression of the visible horizon. (Astron.) Same as Dip of the horizon, under Dip.  Syn.  -- Abasement; reduction; sinking; fall; humiliation; dejection; melancholy. 

DEPRESSIVE:  Able or tending to depress or cast down.  -- De*press"ive*ness, n. 

DEPRESSOMOTOR:  Depressing or diminishing the capacity for movement, as depressomotor nerves, which lower or inhibit muscular activity.  -- n.  Any agent that depresses the activity of the motor centers, as bromides, etc. 

DEPRESSOR:  A muscle that depresses or tends to draw down a part. Depressor nerve (Physiol.), a nerve which lowers the activity of an organ; as, the depressor nerve of the heart. 

DEPRIMENT:  Serving to depress. [R.] "Depriment muscles." Derham. 

DEPRISURE:  Low estimation; disesteem; contempt. [Obs.] 

DEPRIVABLE:  Capable of being, or liable to be, deprived; liable to be deposed. Kings of Spain . . . deprivable for their tyrannies. Prynne. 

DEPRIVATION:  the taking away from a clergyman his benefice, or other spiritual promotion or dignity.  Note: Deprivation may be a beneficio or ab officio; the first takes away the living, the last degrades and deposes from the order. 

DEPRIVEMENT:  Deprivation. [R.] 

DEPRIVER:  One who, or that which, deprives. 

DEPROSTRATE:  Fully prostrate; humble; low; rude. [Obs.] How may weak mortal ever hope to file His unsmooth tongue, and his deprostrate style. G. Fletcher. 

DEPROVINCIALIZE:  To divest of provincial quality or characteristics. 

DEPTH:  The number of simple elements which an abstract conception or notion includes; the comprehension or content.  6. (Horology)  A pair of toothed wheels which work together. [R.]  Depth of a sail (Naut.), the extent of a square sail from the head rope to the foot rope; the length of the after leach of a staysail or boom sail; -- commonly called the drop of sail. 

DEPTHEN:  To deepen. [Obs.] 

DEPUCELATE:  To deflour; to deprive of virginity. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEPUDICATE:  To deflour; to dishonor. [Obs.] 

DEPULSE:  To drive away. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

DEPULSION:  A driving or thrusting away. [R.] Speed. 

DEPULSORY:  Driving or thrusting away; averting. [R.] Holland. 

DEPURANT:  Depurative. 

DEPURATE:  Depurated; cleansed; freed from impurities. Boyle. 

DEPURATE:  To free from impurities, heterogeneous matter, or feculence; to purify; to cleanse. To depurate the mass of blood. Boyle. 

DEPURATION:  The act or process of depurating or freeing from foreign or impure matter, as a liquid or wound. 

DEPURATIVE:  Purifying the blood or the humors; depuratory.  -- n.  A depurative remedy or agent; or a disease which is believed to be depurative. 

DEPURATOR:  One who, or that which, cleanses. 

DEPURATORY:  Depurating; tending to depurate or cleanse; depurative. 

DEPURE:  To depurate; to purify. [Obs.] He shall first be depured and cleansed before that he shall be laid up for pure gold in the treasures of God. Sir T. More. 

DEPURGATORY:  Serving to purge; tending to cleanse or purify. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

DEPURITION:  See Depuration. 

DEPUTABLE:  Fit to be deputed; suitable to act as a deputy. Carlyle. 

DEPUTATOR:  One who deputes, or makes a deputation. [R.] Locke. 

DEPUTE:  A person deputed; a deputy. [Scot.] 

DEPUTIZE:  To appoint as one's deputy; to empower to act in one's stead; to depute. 

DEQUANTITATE:  To diminish the quantity of; to disquantity. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DEQUEEN:  To remove the queen from (a hive of bees). 

DERACINATE:  To pluck up by the roots; to extirpate. [R.] While that the colter rusts That should deracinate such savagery. Shak. 

DERACINATION:  The act of pulling up by the roots; eradication. [R.]  DERAIGN; DERAIN De*raign", De*rain", v. t. Etym: [See Darraign.] (Old Law)  To prove or to refute by proof; to clear (one's self). [Obs.]  DERAIGNMENT; DERAINMENT De*raign"ment, De*rain"ment, n. Etym: [See Darraign.]  1. The act of deraigning. [Obs.]  2. The renunciation of religious or monastic vows. [Obs.] Blount. 

DERAIL:  To cause to run off from the rails of a railroad, as a locomotive. Lardner. 

DERAILMENT:  The act of going off, or the state of being off, the rails of a railroad. 

DERANGED:  Disordered; especially, disordered in mind; crazy; insane. The story of a poor deranged parish lad. Lamb. 

DERANGEMENT:  The act of deranging or putting out of order, or the state of being deranged; disarrangement; disorder; confusion; especially, mental disorder; insanity.  Syn.  -- Disorder; confusion; embarrassment; irregularity; disturbance; insanity; lunacy; madness; delirium; mania. See Insanity. 

DERANGER:  One who deranges. 

DERAY:  Disorder; merriment. [Obs.] 

DERBIO:  A large European food fish (Lichia glauca). 

DERBY:  A massive variety of fluor spar, found in Derbyshire, England, and wrought into vases and other ornamental work. 

DERDOING:  Doing daring or chivalrous deeds. [Obs.] "In derdoing arms." Spenser. 

DERE:  To hurt; to harm; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DERE:  Harm. [Obs.] Robert of Brunne. 

DERECHO:  A straight wind without apparent cyclonic tendency, usually accompanied with rain and often destructive, common in the prairie regions of the United States.  DEREINE; DEREYNE De*reine, De*reyne", v. t.  Same as Darraign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DERELICTION:  A retiring of the sea, occasioning a change of high-water mark, whereby land is gained. 

DERELIGIONIZE:  To make irreligious; to turn from religion. [R.] He would dereligionize men beyond all others. De Quincey. 

DERELING:  Darling. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DERELING:  Darling. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DERF:  Strong; powerful; fierce. [Obs.] -- Derf"ly, adv. [Obs.] 

DERIDE:  To laugh at with contempt; to laugh to scorn; to turn to ridicule or make sport of; to mock; to scoff at. And the Pharisees, also, . . . derided him. Luke xvi. 14. Sport that wrinkled Care derides. And Laughter holding both his sides. Milton.  Syn.  -- To mock; laugh at; ridicule; insult; taunt; jeer; banter; rally.  -- To Deride, Ridicule, Mock, Taunt. A man may ridicule without any unkindness of feeling; his object may be to correct; as, to ridicule the follies of the age. He who derides is actuated by a severe a contemptuous spirit; as, to deride one for his religious principles. To mock is stronger, and denotes open and scornful derision; as, to mock at sin. To taunt is to reproach with the keenest insult; as, to taunt one for his misfortunes. Ridicule consists more in words than in actions; derision and mockery evince themselves in actions as well as words; taunts are always expressed in words of extreme bitterness. 

DERIDER:  One who derides, or laughs at, another in contempt; a mocker; a scoffer. 

DERIDINGLY:  By way of derision or mockery.  DE RIGUEUR De ri`gueur". [F. See 2d Rigor.]  According to strictness (of etiquette, rule, or the like); obligatory; strictly required. 

DERISIVE:  Expressing, serving for, or characterized by, derision. "Derisive taunts." Pope.  -- De*ri"sive*ly, adv.  -- De*ri"sive*ness, n. 

DERISORY:  Derisive; mocking. Shaftesbury. 

DERIVABLE:  That can be derived; obtainable by transmission; capable of being known by inference, as from premises or data; capable of being traced, as from a radical; as, income is derivable from various sources. All honor derivable upon me. South. The exquisite pleasure derivable from the true and beautiful relations of domestic life. H. G. Bell. The argument derivable from the doxologies. J. H. Newman. 

DERIVABLY:  By derivation. 

DERIVAL:  Derivation. [R.] The derival of e from a. Earle. 

DERIVATE:  Derived; derivative. [R.] H. Taylor.  -- n.  A thing derived; a derivative. [R.] 

DERIVATE:  To derive. [Obs.] Huloet. 

DERIVATION:  The operation of deducing one function from another according to some fixed law, called the law of derivation, as the of differentiation or of integration.  8. (Med.)  A drawing of humors or fluids from one part of the body to another, to relieve or lessen a morbid process. 

DERIVATIONAL:  Relating to derivation. Earle. 

DERIVATIVE:  Obtained by derivation; derived; not radical, original, or fundamental; originating, deduced, or formed from something else; secondary; as, a derivative conveyance; a derivative word. Derivative circulation, a modification of the circulation found in some parts of the body, in which the arteries empty directly into the veins without the interposition of capillaries. Flint.  -- De*riv"a*tive*ly, adv.  -- De*riv"a*tive*ness, n. 

DERIVATIVE:  A word formed from another word, by a prefix or suffix, an internal modification, or some other change; a word which takes its origin from a root.  3. (Mus.)  A chord, not fundamental, but obtained from another by inversion; or, vice versa, a ground tone or root implied in its harmonics in an actual chord.  4. (Med.)  An agent which is adapted to produce a derivation (in the medical sense).  5. (Math.)  A derived function; a function obtained from a given function by a certain algebraic process.  Note: Except in the mode of derivation the derivative is the same as the differential coefficient. See Differential coefficient, under Differential.  6. (Chem.)  A substance so related to another substance by modification or partial substitution as to be regarded as derived from it; thus, the amido compounds are derivatives of ammonia, and the hydrocarbons are derivatives of methane, benzene, etc. 

DERIVE:  To obtain one substance from another by actual or theoretical substitution; as, to derive an organic acid from its corresponding hydrocarbon.  Syn.  -- To trace; deduce; infer. 

DERIVE:  To flow; to have origin; to descend; to proceed; to be deduced. Shak. Power from heaven Derives, and monarchs rule by gods appointed. Prior. 

DERIVEMENT:  That which is derived; deduction; inference. [Obs.] I offer these derivements from these subjects. W. Montagu. 

DERIVER:  One who derives. 

DERK:  Dark. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -DERM -derm. Etym: [See Derm, n.]  A suffix or terminal formative, much used in anatomical terms, and signifying skin, integument, covering; as, blastoderm, ectoderm, etc. 

DERM:  See Dermis. 

DERMA:  See Dermis. 

DERMAL:  Pertaining to the dermis or true skin.  DERMAPTERA; DERMAPTERAN Der*map"te*ra, Der*map"ter*an (, n. (Zoöl.)  See Dermoptera, Dermopteran.  DERMATIC; DERMATINE Der*mat"ic, Der"ma*tine, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to the skin. 

DERMATITIS:  Inflammation of the skin. 

DERMATOGEN:  Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a forming condition. 

DERMATOGEN:  Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a forming condition. 

DERMATOGRAPHY:  An anatomical description of, or treatise on, the skin. 

DERMATOID:  Resembling 

DERMATOLOGIST:  One who discourses on the skin and its diseases; one versed in dermatology. 

DERMATOLOGY:  The science which treats of the skin, its structure, functions, and diseases. 

DERMATOPATHIC:  Of or pertaining to skin diseases, or their cure. 

DERMATOPHYTE:  A vegetable parasite, infesting the skin. 

DERMESTES:  A genus of coleopterous insects, the larvæ of which feed animal substances. They are very destructive to dries meats, skins, woolens, and furs. The most common species is D. lardarius, known as the bacon beetle. 

DERMESTOID:  Pertaining to or resembling the genus Dermestes. The carpet beetle, called the buffalo moth, is a dermestoid beetle. Pop. Sci. Monthly. 

DERMIC:  Pertaining to the dermis; dermal. Underneath each nail the deep or dermic layer of the integument is peculiarly modified. Huxley. Dermic remedies (Med.), such as act through the skin. 

DERMIS:  The deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin or epidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, and enderon. See Skin, and Illust. in Appendix. 

DERMOBRANCHIATA:  A group of nudibranch mollusks without special gills. 

DERMOBRANCHIATE:  Having the skin modified to serve as a gill. 

DERMOHAEMAL:  Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and hæmal structures; as, the dermohæmal spines or ventral fin rays of fishes. 

DERMOID:  Same as Dermatoid. Dermoid cyst (Med.), a cyst containing skin, or structures connected with skin, such as hair. 

DERMONEURAL:  Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and neural structures; as, the dermoneural spines or dorsal fin rays of fishes. Owen. 

DERMOPATHIC:  Dermatopathic. 

DERMOPHYTE:  A dermatophyte. 

DERMOPTERA:  The division of insects which includes the earwigs (Forticulidæ).  2. (Zoöl.)  A group of lemuroid mammals having a parachutelike web of skin between the fore and hind legs, of which the colugo (Galeopithecus) is the type. See Colugo.  3. (Zoöl.)  An order of Mammalia; the Cheiroptera. [Written also Dermaptera, and Dermatoptera.] 

DERMOPTERAN:  An insect which has the anterior pair of wings coriaceous, and does not use them in flight, as the earwig. 

DERMOPTERI:  Same as Dermopterygii. 

DERMOPTERYGII:  A group of fishlike animals including the Marsipobranchiata and Leptocardia. 

DERMOSKELETON:  See Exoskeleton. 

DERMOSTOSIS:  Ossification of the dermis. 

DERN:  A gatepost or doorpost. [Local Eng.] C. Kingsley. 

DERNE:  To hide; to skulk. [Scot.] He at length escaped them by derning himself in a foxearth. H. Miller. 

DERNFUL:  Secret; hence, lonely; sad; mournful. [Obs.] "Dernful noise." Spenser. 

DERNIER:  Last; final. Dernier ressort ( Etym: [F.], last resort or expedient. 

DERNLY:  Secretly; grievously; mournfully. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DEROGANT:  Derogatory. [R.] T. Adams. 

DEROGATE:  Diminished in value; dishonored; degraded. [R.] Shak. 

DEROGATELY:  In a derogatory manner. 

DEROGATION:  An alteration of, or subtraction from, a contract for a sale of stocks. 

DEROGATIVE:  Derogatory.  -- De*rog"a*tive*ly, adv. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

DEROGATOR:  A detractor. 

DEROGATORILY:  In a derogatory manner; disparagingly. Aubrey. 

DEROGATORINESS:  Quality of being derogatory. 

DEROGATORY:  Tending to derogate, or lessen in value; expressing derogation; detracting; injurious; -- with from to, or unto. Acts of Parliament derogatory from the power of subsequent Parliaments bind not. Blackstone. His language was severely censured by some of his brother peers as derogatory to their other. Macaulay. Derogatory clause in a testament (Law), a sentence of secret character inserted by the testator alone, of which he reserves the knowledge to himself, with a condition that no will he may make thereafter shall be valid, unless this clause is inserted word for word; -- a precaution to guard against later wills extorted by violence, or obtained by suggestion. 

DEROTREMATA:  The tribe of aquatic Amphibia which includes Amphiuma, Menopoma, etc. They have permanent gill openings, but no external gills; -- called also Cryptobranchiata. [Written also Derotrema.] 

DERRE:  Dearer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DERRICK:  A mast, spar, or tall frame, supported at the top by stays or guys, with suitable tackle for hoisting heavy weights, as stones in building. Derrick crane, a combination of the derrick and the crane, having facility for hoisting and also for swinging the load horizontally. 

DERRING:  Daring or warlike. [Obs.] Drad for his derring doe and bloody deed. Spenser. 

DERRINGER:  A kind of short-barreled pocket pistol, of very large caliber, often carrying a half-ounce ball. 

DERTH:  Dearth; scarcity. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DERTROTHECA:  The horny covering of the end of the bill of birds.  DERVISH; DERVISE; DERVIS Der"vish, Der"vise, Der"vis, n. Etym: [Per. derw, fr. OPer. derew to beg, ask alms: cf. F. derviche.]  A Turkish or Persian monk, especially one who professes extreme poverty and leads an austere life. 

DERWORTH:  Precious. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

DESCANTER:  One who descants. 

DESCEND:  To move toward the south, or to the southward.  8. (Mus.)  To fall in pitch; to pass from a higher to a lower tone. 

DESCEND:  To go down upon or along; to pass from a higher to a lower part of; as, they descended the river in boats; to descend a ladder. But never tears his cheek descended. Byron. 

DESCENDANT:  Descendent. 

DESCENDANT:  One who descends, as offspring, however remotely; -- correlative to ancestor or ascendant. Our first parents and their descendants. Hale. The descendant of so many kings and emperors. Burke. 

DESCENDENT:  Descending; falling; proceeding from an ancestor or source. More than mortal grace Speaks thee descendent of ethereal race. Pope. 

DESCENDER:  One who descends. 

DESCENDIBILITY:  The quality of being descendible; capability of being transmitted from ancestors; as, the descendibility of an estate. 

DESCENDING:  Of or pertaining to descent; moving downwards. Descending constellations or signs (Astron.), those through which the planets descent toward the south.  -- Descending node (Astron.), that point in a planet's orbit where it intersects the ecliptic in passing southward.  -- Descending series (Math.), a series in which each term is numerically smaller than the preceding one; also, a series arranged according to descending powers of a quantity. 

DESCENDINGLY:  In a descending manner. 

DESCENSION:  The act of going downward; descent; falling or sinking; declension; degradation. Oblique descension (Astron.), the degree or arc of the equator which descends, with a celestial object, below the horizon of an oblique sphere.  -- Right descension, the degree or arc of the equator which descends below the horizon of a right sphere at the same time with the object. [Obs.] 

DESCENSIONAL:  Pertaining to descension. Johnson. 

DESCENSIVE:  Tending to descend; tending downwards; descending. Smart. 

DESCENSORY:  A vessel used in alchemy to extract oils. 

DESCENT:  Transmission of an estate by inheritance, usually, but not necessarily, in the descending line; title to inherit an estate by reason of consanguinity. Abbott.  6. Inclination downward; a descending way; inclined or sloping surface; declivity; slope; as, a steep descent.  7. That which is descended; descendants; issue. If care of our descent perplex us most, Which must be born to certain woe. Milton.  8. A step or remove downward in any scale of gradation; a degree in the scale of genealogy; a generation. No man living is a thousand descents removed from Adam himself. Hooker.  9. Lowest place; extreme downward place. [R.] And from the extremest upward of thy head, To the descent and dust below thy foot. Shak.  10. (Mus.)  A passing from a higher to a lower tone.  Syn.  -- Declivity; slope; degradation; extraction; lineage; assault; invasion; attack. 

DESCRIBABLE:  That can be described; capable of description. 

DESCRIBE:  To use the faculty of describing; to give a description; as, Milton describes with uncommon force and beauty. 

DESCRIBENT:  Same as Generatrix. 

DESCRIBER:  One who describes. 

DESCRIER:  One who descries. 

DESCRIPTIVE:  Tending to describe; having the quality of representing; containing description; as, a descriptive figure; a descriptive phrase; a descriptive narration; a story descriptive of the age. Descriptive anatomy, that part of anatomy which treats of the forms and relations of parts, but not of their textures.  -- Descriptive geometry, that branch of geometry. which treats of the graphic solution of problems involving three dimensions, by means of projections upon auxiliary planes. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ) -- De*scrip"tive*ly, adv.  -- De*scrip"tive*ness, n. 

DESCRIVE:  To describe. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DESCRY:  , Discovery or view, as of an army seen at a distance. [Obs.] Near, and on speedy foot; the main descry Stands on the hourly thought. Shak. 

DESECATE:  To cut, as with a scythe; to mow. [Obs.] 

DESECRATE:  To divest of a sacred character or office; to divert from a sacred purpose; to violate the sanctity of; to profane; to put to an unworthy use; -- the opposite of consecrate. The [Russian] clergy can not suffer corporal punishment without being previously desecrated. W. Tooke. The founders of monasteries imprecated evil on those who should desecrate their donations. Salmon. 

DESECRATER:  One who desecrates; a profaner. Harper's Mag. 

DESECRATION:  The act of desecrating; profanation; condition of anything desecrated. 

DESECRATOR:  One who desecrates. "Desecrators of the church." Morley. 

DESEGMENTATION:  The loss or obliteration of division into segments; as, a desegmentation of the body. 

DESERT:  That which is deserved; the reward or the punishment justly due; claim to recompense, usually in a good sense; right to reward; merit. According to their deserts will I judge them. Ezek. vii. 27. Andronicus, surnamed Pius For many good and great deserts to Rome. Shak. His reputation falls far below his desert. A. Hamilton.  Syn.  -- Merit; worth; excellence; due. 

DESERT:  Of or pertaining to a desert; forsaken; without life or cultivation; unproductive; waste; barren; wild; desolate; solitary; as, they landed on a desert island. He . . . went aside privately into a desert place. Luke ix. 10. Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness on the desert air. Gray. Desert flora (Bot.), the assemblage of plants growing naturally in a desert, or in a dry and apparently unproductive place.  -- Desert hare (Zoöl.), a small hare (Lepus sylvaticus, var. Arizonæ) inhabiting the deserts of the Western United States.  -- Desert mouse (Zoöl.), an American mouse (Hesperomys eremicus), living in the Western deserts. 

DESERT:  To abandon (the service) without leave; to forsake in violation of duty; to abscond from; as, to desert the army; to desert one's colors. 

DESERT:  To abandon a service without leave; to quit military service without permission, before the expiration of one's term; to abscond. The soldiers . . . deserted in numbers. Bancroft.  Syn.  -- To abandon; forsake; leave; relinquish; renounce; quit; depart from; abdicate. See Abandon. 

DESERTER:  One who forsakes a duty, a cause or a party, a friend, or any one to whom he owes service; especially, a soldier or a seaman who abandons the service without leave; one guilty of desertion. 

DESERTFUL:  Meritorious. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 

DESERTLESS:  Without desert. [R.] 

DESERTLESSLY:  Undeservedly. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 

DESERTNESS:  A deserted condition. [R.] "The desertness of the country." Udall.  DESERTRIX; DESERTRICE De*sert"rix, De*sert"rice, n. Etym: [L. desertrix.]  A feminine deserter. Milton. 

DESERVE:  To be worthy of recompense; -- usually with ill or with well. One man may merit or deserve of another. South. 

DESERVEDLY:  According to desert (whether good or evil); justly. 

DESERVEDNESS:  Meritoriousness. 

DESERVER:  One who deserves. 

DESERVING:  Desert; merit. A person of great deservings from the republic. Swift. 

DESERVING:  Meritorious; worthy; as, a deserving or act.  -- De*serv"ing*ly, adv. 

DESHABILLE:  An undress; a careless toilet. 

DESICCANT:  Drying; desiccative.  -- n.  (Med.) A medicine or application for drying up a sore. Wiseman. 

DESICCATE:  To dry up; to deprive or exhaust of moisture; to preserve by drying; as, to desiccate fish or fruit. Bodies desiccated by heat or age. Bacon. 

DESICCATE:  To become dry. 

DESICCATION:  The act of desiccating, or the state of being desiccated. 

DESICCATIVE:  Drying; tending to dry. Ferrand.  -- n. (Med.)  An application for drying up secretions. 

DESICCATOR:  A short glass jar fitted with an air-tight cover, and containing some desiccating agent, as sulphuric acid or calcium chloride, above which is suspended the material to be dried, or preserved from moisture. 

DESICCATORY:  Desiccative. 

DESIDERABLE:  Desirable. [R.] "Good and desiderable things." Holland. 

DESIDERATA:  See Desideratum. 

DESIDERATE:  To desire; to feel the want of; to lack; to miss; to want. Pray have the goodness to point out one word missing that ought to have been there -- please to insert a desiderated stanza. You can not. Prof. Wilson. Men were beginning . . . to desiderate for them an actual abode of fire. A. W. Ward. 

DESIDERATION:  Act of desiderating; also, the thing desired. [R.] Jeffrey. 

DESIDERATIVE:  Denoting desire; as, desiderative verbs. 

DESIDERATIVE:  A verb formed from another verb by a change of termination, and expressing the desire of doing that which is indicated by the primitive verb. 

DESIDERATUM:  Anything desired; that of which the lack is felt; a want generally felt and acknowledge.  DESIDIOSE; DESIDIOUS De*sid"i*ose`, De*sid"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. desidiosus, fr. desidia a sitting idle, fr. desid to sit idle; de- + sed to sit.]  Idle; lazy. [Obs.] 

DESIDIOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being desidiose, or indolent. [Obs.] N. Bacon. 

DESIGHT:  An unsightly object. [Obs.] 

DESIGHTMENT:  The act of making unsightly; disfigurement. [R.] To substitute jury masts at whatever desightment or damage in risk. London Times. 

DESIGN:  To form a design or designs; to plan. Design for, to intend to go to. [Obs.] "From this city she designed for Collin [Cologne]." Evelyn. 

DESIGN:  The invention and conduct of the subject; the disposition of every part, and the general order of the whole. Arts of design, those into which the designing of artistic forms and figures enters as a principal part, as architecture, painting, engraving, sculpture.  -- School of design, one in which are taught the invention and delineation of artistic or decorative figures, patterns, and the like.  Syn.  -- Intention; purpose; scheme; project; plan; idea.  -- Design, Intention, Purpose. Design has reference to something definitely aimed at. Intention points to the feelings or desires with which a thing is sought. Purpose has reference to a settled choice or determination for its attainment. "I had no design to injure you," means it was no part of my aim or object. "I had no intention to injure you," means, I had no wish or desire of that kind. "My purpose was directly the reverse," makes the case still stronger. Is he a prudent man . . . that lays designs only for a day, without any prospect to the remaining part of his life Tillotson. I wish others the same intention, and greater successes. Sir W. Temple. It is the purpose that makes strong the vow. Shak. 

DESIGNABLE:  Capable of being designated or distinctly marked out; distinguishable. Boyle. 

DESIGNATE:  Designated; appointed; chosen. [R.] Sir G. Buck. 

DESIGNATIVE:  Serving to designate or indicate; pointing out. 

DESIGNATOR:  An officer who assigned to each his rank and place in public shows and ceremonies.  2. One who designates. 

DESIGNATORY:  Serving to designate; designative; indicating. [R.] 

DESIGNEDLY:  By design; purposely; intentionally; -- opposed to accidentally, ignorantly, or inadvertently. 

DESIGNER:  One who produces or creates original works of art or decoration.  3. A plotter; a schemer; -- used in a bad sense. 

DESIGNFUL:  Full of design; scheming. [R.] -- De*sign"ful*ness, n. [R.] Barrow. 

DESIGNING:  Intriguing; artful; scheming; as, a designing man. 

DESIGNING:  The act of making designs or sketches; the act of forming designs or plans. 

DESIGNLESS:  Without design. [Obs.] -- De*sign"less*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

DESILVER:  To deprive of silver; as, to desilver lead. 

DESILVERIZATION:  The act or the process of freeing from silver; also, the condition resulting from the removal of silver. 

DESILVERIZE:  To deprive, or free from, silver; to remove silver from. 

DESINENCE:  Termination; ending. Bp. Hall. 

DESINENT:  Ending; forming an end; lowermost. [Obs.] "Their desinent parts, fish." B. Jonson. 

DESINENTIAL:  Terminal. Furthermore, b, as a desinential element, has a dynamic function. Fitzed. Hall. 

DESIPIENT:  Foolish; silly; trifling. [R.] 

DESIRABILITY:  The state or quality of being desirable; desirableness. 

DESIRABLE:  Worthy of desire or longing; fitted to excite desire or a wish to possess; pleasing; agreeable. All of them desirable young men. Ezek. xxiii. 12. As things desirable excite Desire, and objects move the appetite. Blackmore. 

DESIRABLENESS:  The quality of being desirable. The desirableness of the Austrian alliance. Froude. 

DESIRABLY:  In a desirable manner. 

DESIREFUL:  Filled with desire; eager. [R.] The desireful troops. Godfrey (1594). 

DESIREFULNESS:  The state of being desireful; eagerness to obtain and possess. [R.] The desirefulness of our minds much augmenteth and increaseth our pleasure. Udall. 

DESIRELESS:  Free from desire. Donne. 

DESIRER:  One who desires, asks, or wishes. 

DESIROUS:  Feeling desire; eagerly wishing; solicitous; eager to obtain; covetous. Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him. John xvi. 19. Be not desirous of his dainties. Prov. xxiii. 3. 

DESIROUSLY:  With desire; eagerly. 

DESIROUSNESS:  The state of being desirous. 

DESIST:  To cease to proceed or act; to stop; to forbear; -- often with from. Never desisting to do evil. E. Hall. To desist from his bad practice. Massinger. Desist (thou art discern'd, And toil'st in vain). Milton. 

DESISTANCE:  The act or state of desisting; cessation. [R.] Boyle. If fatigue of body or brain were in every case followed by desistance . . . then would the system be but seldom out of working order. H. Spencer. 

DESISTIVE:  Final; conclusive; ending. [R.] 

DESITION:  An end or ending. [R.] 

DESITIVE:  Final; serving to complete; conclusive. [Obs.] "Desitive propositions." I. Watts. 

DESITIVE:  A proposition relating to or expressing an end or conclusion. [Obs.] I. Watts. 

DESK:  To shut up, as in a desk; to treasure. 

DESKWORK:  Work done at a desk, as by a clerk or writer. Tennyson. 

DESMAN:  An amphibious, insectivorous mammal found in Russia (Myogale moschata). It is allied to the moles, but is called muscrat by some English writers. [Written also dæsman.]  DESMID; DESMIDIAN Des"mid, Des*mid"i*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  A microscopic plant of the family Desmidiæ, a group of unicellular algæ in which the species have a greenish color, and the cells generally appear as if they consisted of two coalescing halves. 

DESMINE:  Same as Stilbite. It commonly occurs in bundles or tufts of crystals. 

DESMOBACTERIA:  See Microbacteria. 

DESMODONT:  A member of a group of South American blood-sucking bats, of the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire. 

DESMOGNATHOUS:  Having the maxillo-palatine bones united; -- applied to a group of carinate birds (Desmognathæ), including various wading and swimming birds, as the ducks and herons, and also raptorial and other kinds. 

DESMOID:  Resembling, or having the characteristics of, a ligament; ligamentous. 

DESMOLOGY:  The science which treats of the ligaments. [R.] 

DESMOMYARIA:  The division of Tunicata which includes the Salpæ. See Salpa. 

DESOLATELY:  In a desolate manner. 

DESOLATENESS:  The state of being desolate. 

DESOLATER:  One who, or that which, desolates or lays waste. Mede. 

DESOLATOR:  Same as Desolater. Byron. 

DESOLATORY:  Causing desolation. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

DESOPHISTICATE:  To clear from sophism or error. [R.] Hare. 

DESOXALIC:  Made or derived from oxalic acid; as, desoxalic acid. 

DESPAIR:  To be hopeless; to have no hope; to give up all hope or expectation; -- often with of. We despaired even of life. 2 Cor. i. 8. Never despair of God's blessings here. Wake.  Syn.  -- See Despond. 

DESPAIRER:  One who despairs. 

DESPAIRFUL:  Hopeless. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DESPAIRING:  Feeling or expressing despair; hopeless.  -- De*spair"ing*ly, adv.  -- De*spair"ing*ness, n. 

DESPARPLE:  To scatter; to disparkle. [Obs.] Mandeville. 

DESPATCH:  Same as Dispatch. 

DESPECIFICATE:  To discriminate; to separate according to specific signification or qualities; to specificate; to desynonymize. [R.] Inaptitude and ineptitude have been usefully despecificated. Fitzed. Hall. 

DESPECIFICATION:  Discrimination. 

DESPECT:  Contempt. [R.] Coleridge. 

DESPECTION:  A looking down; a despising. [R.] W. Montagu. 

DESPEED:  To send hastily. [Obs.] Despeeded certain of their crew. Speed. 

DESPEND:  To spend; to squander. See Dispend. [Obs.] Some noble men in Spain can despend Howell. 

DESPERADO:  A reckless, furious man; a person urged by furious passions, and regardless of consequence; a wild ruffian. 

DESPERATE:  One desperate or hopeless. [Obs.] 

DESPERATELY:  In a desperate manner; without regard to danger or safety; recklessly; extremely; as, the troops fought desperately. She fell desperately in love with him. Addison. 

DESPERATENESS:  Desperation; virulence. 

DESPICABILITY:  Despicableness. [R.] Carlyle. 

DESPICABLE:  Fit or deserving to be despised; contemptible; mean; vile; worthless; as, a despicable man; despicable company; a despicable gift.  Syn.  -- Contemptible; mean; vile; worthless; pitiful; paltry; sordid; low; base. See Contemptible. 

DESPICABLENESS:  The quality of being despicable; meanness; vileness; worthlessness. 

DESPICABLY:  In a despicable or mean manner; contemptibly; as, despicably stingy. 

DESPICIENCY:  A looking down; despection. [Obs.] 

DESPISABLE:  Despicable; contemptible. [R.] 

DESPISAL:  A despising; contempt. [R.] A despisal of religion. South. 

DESPISE:  To look down upon with disfavor or contempt; to contemn; to scorn; to disdain; to have a low opinion or contemptuous dislike of. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Prov. i. 7. Men naturally despise those who court them, but respect those who do not give way to them. Jowett (Thucyd. ).  Syn.  -- To contemn; scorn; disdain; slight; undervalue. See Contemn. 

DESPISEDNESS:  The state of being despised. 

DESPISEMENT:  A despising. [R.] Holland. 

DESPISER:  One who despises; a contemner; a scorner. 

DESPISINGLY:  Contemptuously. 

DESPITE:  To vex; to annoy; to offend contemptuously. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

DESPITE:  In spite of; against, or in defiance of; notwithstanding; as, despite his prejudices.  Syn.  -- See Notwithstanding. 

DESPITEFUL:  Full of despite; expressing malice or contemptuous hate; malicious.  -- De*spite"ful*ly, adv.  -- De*spite"ful*ness, n. Haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters. Rom. i. 30. Pray for them which despitefully use you. Matt. v. 44. Let us examine him with despitefulness and fortune. Book of Wisdom ii. 19. 

DESPITEOUS:  Feeling or showing despite; malicious; angry to excess; cruel; contemptuous. [Obs.] "Despiteous reproaches." Holland. 

DESPITEOUSLY:  Despitefully. [Obs.] 

DESPITOUS:  Despiteous; very angry; cruel. [Obs.] He was to sinful man not despitous. Chaucer. - De*spit"ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

DESPOIL:  Spoil. [Obs.] Wolsey. 

DESPOILER:  One who despoils. 

DESPOILMENT:  Despoliation. [R.] 

DESPOLIATION:  A stripping or plundering; spoliation. Bailey. 

DESPOND:  To give up, the will, courage, or spirit; to be thoroughly disheartened; to lose all courage; to become dispirited or depressed; to take an unhopeful view. I should despair, or at least despond. Scott's Letters. Others depress their own minds, [and] despond at the first difficulty. Locke. We wish that . . . desponding patriotism may turn its eyes hitherward, and be assured that foundations of our national power still stand strong. D. Webster.  Syn.  -- Despond, Dispair. Despair implies a total loss of hope, which despond does not, at least in every case; yet despondency is often more lasting than despair, or than desperation, which impels to violent action. 

DESPOND:  Despondency. [Obs.] The slough of despond. Bunyan. 

DESPONDENCE:  Despondency. The people, when once infected, lose their relish for happiness [and] saunter about with looks of despondence. Goldsmith. 

DESPONDENCY:  The state of desponding; loss of hope and cessation of effort; discouragement; depression or dejection of the mind. The unhappy prince seemed, during some days, to be sunk in despondency. Macaulay. 

DESPONDENT:  Marked by despondence; given to despondence; low-spirited; as, a despondent manner; a despondent prisoner.  -- De*spond"ent*ly, adv. 

DESPONDER:  One who desponds. 

DESPONDINGLY:  In a desponding manner. 

DESPONSAGE:  Betrothal. [Obs.] Ethelbert . . . went peaceably to King Offa for desponsage of Athilrid, his daughter. Foxe. 

DESPONSATE:  To betroth. [Obs.] Johnson. 

DESPONSATION:  A betrothing; betrothal. [Obs.] For all this desponsation of her . . . she had not set one step toward the consummation of her marriage. Jer. Taylor. 

DESPONSORY:  A written pledge of marriage. Clarendon. 

DESPORT:  See Disport. 

DESPOTAT:  The station or government of a despot; also, the domain of a despot. Freeman.  DESPOTIC; DESPOTICAL Des*pot"ic, Des*pot"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. despotique.]  Having the character of, or pertaining to, a despot; absolute in power; possessing and abusing unlimited power; evincing despotism; tyrannical; arbitrary.  -- Des*pot"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Des*pot"ic*al*ness, n. 

DESPOTIST:  A supporter of despotism. [R.] 

DESPOTIZE:  To act the despot. 

DESPREAD:  See Dispread. 

DESPUMATE:  To throw off impurities in spume; to work off in foam or scum; to foam. 

DESPUMATION:  The act of throwing up froth or scum; separation of the scum or impurities from liquids; scumming; clarification. 

DESPUME:  To free from spume or scum. [Obs.] If honey be despumed. Holland. 

DESQUAMATE:  To peel off in the form of scales; to scale off, as the skin in certain diseases. 

DESQUAMATION:  The separation or shedding of the cuticle or epidermis in the form of flakes or scales; exfoliation, as of bones.  DESQUAMATIVE; DESQUAMATORY De*squam"a*tive, De*squam"a*to*ry, a.  Of, pertaining to, or attended with, desquamation. 

DESQUAMATORY:  An instrument formerly used in removing the laminæ of exfoliated bones. 

DESS:  Dais. [Obs.] 

DESSERT:  A service of pastry, fruits, or sweetmeats, at the close of a feast or entertainment; pastry, fruits, etc., forming the last course at dinner. "An 't please your honor," quoth the peasant, "This same dessert is not so pleasant." Pope. Dessert spoon, a spoon used in eating dessert; a spoon intermediate in size between a teaspoon and a tablespoon.  -- Dessert-spoonful, n., pl. Dessert-spoonfuls, as much as a dessert spoon will hold, usually reckoned at about two and a half fluid drams. 

DESTEMPER:  A kind of painting. See Distemper. 

DESTIN:  Destiny. [Obs.] Marston. 

DESTINABLE:  Determined by destiny; fated. Chaucer. 

DESTINABLY:  In a destinable manner. 

DESTINAL:  Determined by destiny; fated. [Obs.] "The order destinal." Chaucer. 

DESTINATE:  Destined. [Obs.] "Destinate to hell." Foxe. 

DESTINATE:  To destine, design, or choose. [Obs.] "That name that God . . . did destinate." Udall. 

DESTINE:  To determine the future condition or application of; to set apart by design for a future use or purpose; to fix, as by destiny or by an authoritative decree; to doom; to ordain or preordain; to appoint; -- often with the remoter object preceded by to or for. We are decreed, Reserved, and destined to eternal woe. Milton. Till the loathsome opposite Of all my heart had destined, did obtain. Tennyson. Not enjoyment and not sorrow Is our destined end or way. Longfellow.  Syn.  -- To design; mark out; determine; allot; choose; intend; devote; consecrate; doom. 

DESTINIST:  A believer in destiny; a fatalist. [R.] 

DESTITUENT:  Deficient; wanting; as, a destituent condition. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

DESTITUTELY:  In destitution. 

DESTITUTENESS:  Destitution. [R.] Ash. 

DESTITUTION:  The state of being deprived of anything; the state or condition of being destitute, needy, or without resources; deficiency; lack; extreme poverty; utter want; as, the inundation caused general destitution.  DESTRER; DEXTRER Des*trer", Dex"trer, n. Etym: [OF. destrier, fr. L. dextra on the right side. The squire led his master's horse beside him, on his right hand. Skeat.]  A war horse. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DESTRIE:  To destroy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DESTROYABLE:  Destructible. [R.] Plants . . . scarcely destroyable by the weather. Derham. 

DESTROYER:  One who destroys, ruins, kills, or desolates. 

DESTRUCT:  To destroy. [Obs.] Mede. 

DESTRUCTIBILITY:  The quality of being capable of destruction; destructibleness. 

DESTRUCTIBLE:  Liable to destruction; capable of being destroyed. 

DESTRUCTIBLENESS:  The quality of being destructible. 

DESTRUCTIONIST:  One who believes in the final destruction or complete annihilation of the wicked; -- called also annihilationist. Shipley. 

DESTRUCTIVE:  Causing destruction; tending to bring about ruin, death, or devastation; ruinous; fatal; productive of serious evil; mischievous; pernicious; -- often with of or to; as, intemperance is destructive of health; evil examples are destructive to the morals of youth. Time's destructive power. Wordsworth. Destructive distillation. See Distillation.  -- Destructive sorties ( (Logic), a process of reasoning which involves the denial of the first of a series of dependent propositions as a consequence of the denial of the last; a species of reductio ad absurdum. Whately.  Syn.  -- Mortal; deadly; poisonous; fatal; ruinous; malignant; baleful; pernicious; mischievous. 

DESTRUCTIVE:  One who destroys; a radical reformer; a destructionist. 

DESTRUCTIVELY:  In a destructive manner. 

DESTRUCTIVENESS:  The faculty supposed to impel to the commission of acts of destruction; propensity to destroy. 

DESTRUCTOR:  A destroyer. [R.] Fire, the destructive and the artificial death of things. Boyle. 

DESTRUIE:  To destroy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DESUDATION:  A sweating; a profuse or morbid sweating, often succeeded by an eruption of small pimples. 

DESUETE:  Disused; out of use. [R.] 

DESUETUDE:  The cessation of use; disuse; discontinuance of practice, custom, or fashion. The desuetude abrogated the law, which, before, custom had established. Jer. Taylor. 

DESULPHURATE:  To deprive of sulphur. 

DESULPHURATION:  The act or process of depriving of sulphur. 

DESULPHURIZE:  To desulphurate; to deprive of sulphur.  -- De*sul`phur*i*za"tion, n. 

DESULTORILY:  In a desultory manner; without method; loosely; immethodically. 

DESULTORINESS:  The quality of being desultory or without order or method; unconnectedness. The seeming desultoriness of my method. Boyle. 

DESULTORIOUS:  Desultory. [R.] 

DESUME:  To select; to borrow. [Obs.] Sir. M. Hale. 

DESYNONYMIZATION:  The act of desynonymizing. 

DESYNONYMIZE:  To deprive of synonymous character; to discriminate in use; -- applied to words which have been employed as synonyms. Coleridge. Trench. 

DETACH:  To push asunder; to come off or separate from anything; to disengage. [A vapor] detaching, fold by fold, From those still heights. Tennyson. 

DETACHABLE:  That can be detached. 

DETACHED:  Separate; unconnected, or imperfectly connected; as, detached parcels. "Extensive and detached empire." Burke. Detached escapement. See Escapement. 

DETAIL:  The selection for a particular service of a person or a body of men; hence, the person or the body of men so selected. Detail drawing, a drawing of the full size, or on a large scale, of some part of a building, machine, etc.  -- In detail, in subdivisions; part by part; item; circumstantially; with particularity.  Syn.  -- Account; relation; narrative; recital; explanation; narration. 

DETAIL:  To tell off or appoint for a particular service, as an officer, a troop, or a squadron.  Syn.  -- Detail, Detach. Detail respect the act of individualizing the person or body that is separated; detach, the removing for the given end or object. 

DETAILER:  One who details. 

DETAIN:  Detention. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DETAINDER:  A writ. See Detinue. 

DETAINMENT:  Detention. [R.] Blackstone. 

DETECT:  Detected. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

DETECT:  Capable of being detected or found out; as, parties not detectable. "Errors detectible at a glance." Latham. 

DETECTER:  One who, or that which, detects or brings to light; one who finds out what another attempts to conceal; a detector. 

DETECTION:  The act of detecting; the laying open what was concealed or hidden; discovery; as, the detection of a thief; the detection of fraud, forgery, or a plot. Such secrets of guilt are never from detection. D. Webster. 

DETECTIVE:  Fitted for, or skilled in, detecting; employed in detecting crime or criminals; as, a detective officer. 

DETECTIVE:  One who business it is so detect criminals or discover matters of secrecy. 

DETECTOR:  One who, or that which, detects; a detecter. Shak. A deathbed's detector of the heart. Young. Bank-note detector, a publication containing a description of genuine and counterfeit bank notes, designed to enable persons to discriminate between them.  -- Detector l. See under Lock.  DETECTOR BAR De*tect"or bar. (Railroads)  A bar, connected with a switch, longer than the distance between any two consecutive wheels of a train (45 to 50 feet), laid inside a rail and operated by the wheels so that the switch cannot be thrown until all the train is past the switch. 

DETENEBRATE:  To remove darkness from. [Obs.] Ash. 

DETENT:  That which locks or unlocks a movement; a catch, pawl, or dog; especially, in clockwork, the catch which locks and unlocks the wheelwork in striking. 

DETER:  To prevent by fear; hence, to hinder or prevent from action by fear of consequences, or difficulty, risk, etc. Addison. Potent enemies tempt and deter us from our duty. Tillotson. My own face deters me from my glass. Prior. 

DETERGE:  To cleanse; to purge away, as foul or offending matter from the body, or from an ulcer. 

DETERGENCY:  A cleansing quality or power. De Foe. 

DETERGENT:  Cleansing; purging.  -- n.  A substance which cleanses the skin, as water or soap; a medicine to cleanse wounds, ulcers, etc. 

DETERIORATE:  To make worse; to make inferior in quality or value; to impair; as, to deteriorate the mind. Whately. The art of war . . . was greatly deteriorated. Southey. 

DETERIORATE:  To grow worse; to be impaired in quality; to degenerate. Under such conditions, the mind rapidly deteriorates. Goldsmith. 

DETERIORATION:  The process of growing worse, or the state of having grown worse. 

DETERIORITY:  Worse state or quality; inferiority. "The deteriority of the diet." [R.] Ray. 

DETERMENT:  The act of deterring; also, that which deters. Boyle. 

DETERMINABILITY:  The quality of being determinable; determinableness. Coleridge. 

DETERMINABLE:  Capable of being determined, definitely ascertained, decided upon, or brought to a conclusion. Not wholly determinable from the grammatical use of the words. South. 

DETERMINABLENESS:  Capability of being determined; determinability. 

DETERMINACY:  Determinateness. [R.] 

DETERMINANT:  Serving to determine or limit; determinative. 

DETERMINANT:  The sum of a series of products of several numbers, these products being formed according to certain specified laws; thus, the determinant of the nine numbers. a, b, c,a', b', c',a'\'b7, b'\'b7, c'\'b7, is a b' c'\'b7 -- a b'\'b7 c' + a' b'\'b7 c] -- a' b c'\'b7 + a'\'b7 b' c. The determinant is written by placing the numbers from which it is formed in a square between two vertical lines. The theory of determinants forms a very important branch of modern mathematics.  3. (Logic)  A mark or attribute, attached to the subject or predicate, narrowing the extent of both, but rendering them more definite and precise. Abp. Thomson. 

DETERMINATE:  To bring to an end; to determine. See Determine. [Obs.] The sly, slow hours shall not determinate The dateless limit of thy dear exile. Shak. 

DETERMINATENESS:  State of being determinate. 

DETERMINATION:  A flow, rush, or tendency to a particular part; as, a determination of blood to the head.  8. (Physical Sciences)  The act, process, or result of any accurate measurement, as of length, volume, weight, intensify, etc.; as, the determination of the ohm or of the wave length of light; the determination of the salt in sea water, or the oxygen in the air.  9. (Logic) (a) The act of defining a concept or notion by giving its essential constituents. (b) The addition of a differentia to a concept or notion, thus limiting its extent; -- the opposite of generalization.  10. (Nat. Hist.)  The act of determining the relations of an object, as regards genus and species; the referring of minerals, plants, or animals, to the species to which they belong; classification; as, I am indebted to a friend for the determination of most of these shells.  Syn.  -- Decision; conclusion; judgment; purpose; resolution; resolve; firmness. See Decision. 

DETERMINATIVE:  Having power to determine; limiting; shaping; directing; conclusive. Incidents . . . determinative of their course. I. Taylor. Determinative tables (Nat. Hist.), tables presenting the specific character of minerals, plants, etc., to assist in determining the species to which a specimen belongs. 

DETERMINATIVE:  That which serves to determine. Explanatory determinatives . . . were placed after words phonetically expressed, in order to serve as an aid to the reader in determining the meaning. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 

DETERMINATOR:  One who determines. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

DETERMINE:  To define or limit by adding a differentia.  9. (Physical Sciences)  To ascertain the presence, quantity, or amount of; as, to determine the parallax; to determine the salt in sea water. 

DETERMINED:  Decided; resolute. "Adetermined foe."" Sparks. 

DETERMINEDLY:  In a determined manner; with determination. 

DETERMINER:  One who, or that which, determines or decides. 

DETERMINISM:  The doctrine that the will is not free, but is inevitably and invincibly determined by motives. Its superior suitability to produce courage, as contrasted with scientific physical determinism, is obvious. F. P. Cobbe. 

DETERMINIST:  One who believes in determinism. Also adj.; as, determinist theories. 

DETERRATION:  The uncovering of anything buried or covered with earth; a taking out of the earth or ground. Woodward. 

DETERRENCE:  That which deters; a deterrent; a hindrance. [R.] 

DETERRENT:  Serving to deter. "The deterrent principle." E. Davis. 

DETERRENT:  That which deters or prevents. 

DETERSION:  The act of deterging or cleansing, as a sore. 

DETERSIVE:  Cleansing; detergent.  -- n.  A cleansing agent; a detergent. 

DETERSIVELY:  In a way to cleanse. 

DETERSIVENESS:  The quality of cleansing. 

DETESTABILITY:  Capacity of being odious. [R.] Carlyle. 

DETESTABLE:  Worthy of being detested; abominable; extremely hateful; very odious; deserving abhorrence; as, detestable vices. Thou hast defiled my sanctuary will all thy detestable things, and with all thine abominations. Ezek. v. 11.  Syn.  -- Abominable; odious; execrable; abhorred. 

DETESTABLENESS:  The quality or state of being detestable. 

DETESTABLY:  In a detestable manner. 

DETESTATE:  To detest. [Obs.] Udall. 

DETESTATION:  The act of detesting; extreme hatred or dislike; abhorrence; loathing. We are heartily agreed in our detestation of civil war. Burke. 

DETESTER:  One who detes 

DETHRONE:  To remove or drive from a throne; to depose; to divest of supreme authority and dignity. "The Protector was dethroned." Hume. 

DETHRONEMENT:  Deposal from a throne; deposition from regal power. 

DETHRONER:  One who dethrones. 

DETHRONIZATION:  Dethronement. [Obs.] Speed. 

DETHRONIZE:  To dethrone or unthrone. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

DETINUE:  A person or thing detained; (Law)  a form of action for the recovery of a personal chattel wrongfully detained. Writ of detinue (Law), one that lies against him who wrongfully detains goods or chattels delivered to him, or in possession, to recover the thing itself, or its value and damages, from the detainer. It is now in a great measure superseded by other remedies. 

DETONATE:  To explode with a sudden report; as, niter detonates with sulphur. 

DETONATE:  To cause to explode; to cause to burn or inflame with a sudden report. 

DETONATING:  from Detonate. Detonating gas, a mixture of two volumes of hydrogen with one volume of oxygen, which explodes with a loud report upon ignition.  -- Detonating powder, any powder or solid substance, as fulminate of mercury, which when struck, explodes with violence and a loud report.  -- Detonating primer, a primer exploded by a fuse; -- used to explode gun cotton in blasting operations.  -- Detonating tube, a strong tube of glass, usually graduated, closed at one end, and furnished with two wires passing through its sides at opposite points, and nearly meeting, for the purpose of exploding gaseous mixtures by an electric spark, as in gas analysis, etc. 

DETONATION:  An explosion or sudden report made by the instantaneous decomposition or combustion of unstable substances' as, the detonation of gun cotton. 

DETONATOR:  One who, or that which, detonates. 

DETONIZATION:  The act of detonizing; detonation. 

DETONIZE:  To explode, or cause to explode; to burn with an explosion; to detonate. 

DETORSION:  Same as Detortion. 

DETORT:  To turn form the original or plain meaning; to pervert; to wrest. Hammond. 

DETORTION:  The act of detorting, or the state of being detorted; a twisting or warping. 

DETOUR:  A turning; a circuitous route; a deviation from a direct course; as, the detours of the Mississippi. 

DETRACT:  To take away a part or something, especially from one's credit; to lessen reputation; to derogate; to defame; -- often with from. It has been the fashion to detract both from the moral and literary character of Cicero. V. Knox. 

DETRACTER:  One who detracts; a detractor. Other detracters and malicious writers. Sir T. North. 

DETRACTINGLY:  In a detracting manner. 

DETRACTIOUS:  Containing detraction; detractory. [R.] Johnson. 

DETRACTIVENESS:  The quality of being detractive. 

DETRACTOR:  One who detracts; a derogator; a defamer. His detractors were noisy and scurrilous. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Slanderer; calumniator; defamer; vilifier. 

DETRACTORY:  Defamatory by denial of desert; derogatory; calumnious. Sir T. Browne. 

DETRACTRESS:  A female detractor. Addison. 

DETRAIN:  To alight, or to cause to alight, from a railway train. [Eng.] London Graphic. 

DETRECT:  To refuse; to decline. [Obs.] "To detrect the battle." Holinshed. 

DETRIMENT:  To do injury to; to hurt. [Archaic] Other might be determined thereby. Fuller. 

DETRIMENTAL:  Causing detriment; injurious; hurtful. Neither dangerous nor detrimental to the donor. Addison.  Syn.  -- Injurious; hurtful; prejudicial; disadvantageous; mischievous; pernicious. 

DETRIMENTALNESS:  The quality of being detrimental; injuriousness. 

DETRITAL:  Pertaining to, or composed of, detritus. 

DETRITE:  Worn out. 

DETRITION:  A wearing off or away. Phonograms which by process long-continued detrition have reached a step of extreme simplicity. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 

DETRITUS:  A mass of substances worn off from solid bodies by attrition, and reduced to small portions; as, diluvial detritus.  Note: For large portions, the word débris is used.  2. Hence: Any fragments separated from the body to which they belonged; any product of disintegration. The mass of detritus of which modern languages are composed. Farrar. 

DETRUDE:  To thrust down or out; to push down with force. Locke. 

DETRUNCATE:  To shorten by cutting; to cut off; to lop off. 

DETRUNCATION:  The act of lopping or cutting off, as the head from the body. 

DETRUSION:  The act of thrusting or driving down or outward; outward thrust.  -- De*tru"sive, a. 

DETTE:  Debt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DETTELES:  Free from debt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DETUMESCENCE:  Diminution of swelling; subsidence of anything swollen. [R.] Cudworth. 

DETUR:  A present of books given to a meritorious undergraduate student as a prize. [Harvard Univ., U. S.] 

DETURB:  To throw down. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DETURBATE:  To evict; to remove. [Obs.] Foxe. 

DETURBATION:  The act of deturbating. [Obs.] 

DETURN:  To turn away. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 

DETURPATE:  To defile; to disfigure. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

DETURPATION:  A making foul. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

DEUCE:  Two; a card or a die with two spots; as, the deuce of hearts.  2. (Tennis)  A condition of the score beginning whendeuce, which decides the game. 

DEUCE:  The devil; a demon. [A euphemism, written also deuse.] [Low] 

DEUCED:  Devilish; excessive; extreme. [Low] -- Deu"ced*ly, adv.  DEUSE; DEUSED Deuse, n.; Deu"sed (, a.  See Deuce, Deuced. 

DEUTEROCANONICAL:  Pertaining to a second canon, or ecclesiastical writing of inferior authority; -- said of the Apocrypha, certain Epistles, etc. 

DEUTEROGAMIST:  One who marries the second time. 

DEUTEROGAMY:  A second marriage, after the death of the first husband of wife; -- in distinction from bigamy, as defined in the old canon law. See Bigamy. Goldsmith. 

DEUTEROGENIC:  Of secondary origin; -- said of certain rocks whose material has been derived from older rocks. 

DEUTERONOMIST:  The writer of Deuteronomy. 

DEUTERONOMY:  The fifth book of the Pentateuch, containing the second giving of the law by Moses.  DEUTEROPATHIA; DEUTEROPATHY Deu`ter*o*pa*thi"a, Deu`ter*op"a*thy, n. Etym: [NL. deuteropathia, fr. Gr. deutéropathie.] (Med.)  A sympathetic affection of any part of the body, as headache from an overloaded stomach. 

DEUTEROPATHIC:  Pertaining to deuteropathy; of the nature of deuteropathy. 

DEUTEROZOOID:  One of the secondary, and usually sexual, zooids produced by budding or fission from the primary zooids, in animals having alternate generations. In the tapeworms, the joints are deuterozooids. 

DEUTHYDROGURET:  Same as Deutohydroguret.  DEUTO-; DEUT- Deu"to- or Deut- (dut-) Etym: [Contr. from Gr. (Chem.)  A prefix which formerly properly indicated the second in a regular series of compound in the series, and not to its composition, but which is now generally employed in the same sense as bi- or di-, although little used. 

DEUTOHYDROGURET:  A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of hydrogen united with some other element or radical. [Obs.] 

DEUTOPLASM:  The lifeless food matter in the cytoplasm of an ovum or a cell, as distinguished from the active or true protoplasm; yolk substance; yolk. 

DEUTOPLASTIC:  Pertaining to, or composed of, deutoplasm. 

DEUTOSULPHURET:  A disulphide. [Obs.] 

DEUTOXIDE:  A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of oxygen united with some other element or radical; -- usually called dioxide, or less frequently, binoxide. 

DEUTZIA:  A genus of shrubs with pretty white flowers, much cultivated.  DEV; DEVA Dev, or De"va (, n. Etym: [Skr. d. Cf. Deity.] (Hind. Myth.)  A god; a deity; a divine being; an idol; a king. 

DEVANAGARI:  The character in which Sanskrit is written. 

DEVAPORATION:  The change of vapor into water, as in the formation of rain. 

DEVAST:  To devastate. [Obs.] Bolingbroke. 

DEVASTATE:  To lay waste; to ravage; to desolate. Whole countries . . . were devastated. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To waste; ravage; desolate; destroy; demolish; plunder; pillage. 

DEVASTATION:  Waste of the goods of the deceased by an executor or administrator. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- Desolation; ravage; waste; havoc; destruction; ruin; overthrow. 

DEVASTATOR:  One who, or that which, devastates. Emerson. 

DEVASTAVIT:  Waste or misapplication of the assets of a deceased person by an executor or an administrator. Bouvier. 

DEVATA:  A deity; a divine being; a good spirit; an idol. [Written also dewata.] 

DEVE:  Deaf. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEVELIN:  The European swift. [Prov. Eng.] 

DEVELOP:  To change the form of, as of an algebraic expression, by executing certain indicated operations without changing the value.  5. (Photog.)  To cause to become visible, as an invisible or latent image upon plate, by submitting it to chemical agents; to bring to view. To develop a curved surface on a place (Geom.), to produce on the plane an equivalent surface, as if by rolling the curved surface so that all parts shall successively touch the plane.  Syn.  -- To uncover; unfold; evolve; promote; project; lay open; disclose; exhibit; unravel; disentangle. 

DEVELOPABLE:  Capable of being developed. J. Peile. Developable surface (Math.), a surface described by a moving right line, and such that consecutive positions of the generator intersect each other. Hence, the surface can be developed into a plane. 

DEVELOPER:  A reagent by the action of which the latent image upon a photographic plate, after exposure in the camera, or otherwise, is developed and visible. 

DEVELOPMENT:  The series of changes which animal and vegetable organisms undergo in their passage from the embryonic state to maturity, from a lower to a higher state of organization.  3. (Math.) (a) The act or process of changing or expanding an expression into another of equivalent value or meaning. (b) The equivalent expression into which another has been developed.  4. (mus.)  The elaboration of a theme or subject; the unfolding of a musical idea; the evolution of a whole piece or movement from a leading theme or motive. Development theory (Biol.), the doctrine that animals and plants possess the power of passing by slow and successive stages from a lower to a higher state of organization, and that all the higher forms of life now in existence were thus developed by uniform laws from lower forms, and are not the result of special creative acts. See the Note under Darwinian.  Syn.  -- Unfolding; disclosure; unraveling; evolution; elaboration; growth. 

DEVELOPMENTAL:  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the process of development; as, the developmental power of a germ. Carpenter. 

DEVENUSTATE:  To deprive of beauty or grace. [Obs.]  DEVERGENCE; DEVERGENCY De*ver"gence, De*ver"gen*cy, n.  See Divergence. [Obs.] 

DEVEST:  To be taken away, lost, or alienated, as a title or an estate. 

DEVEX:  Bending down; sloping. [Obs.] 

DEVEX:  Devexity. [Obs.] May (Lucan). 

DEVEXITY:  A bending downward; a sloping; incurvation downward; declivity. [R.] Davies (Wit's Pilgr.) 

DEVI:  ; fem. of Deva. A goddess. 

DEVIANT:  Deviating. [Obs.] 

DEVIATE:  To go out of the way; to turn aside from a course or a method; to stray or go astray; to err; to digress; to diverge; to vary. Thus Pegasus, a nearer way to take, May boldly deviate from the common track. Pope.  Syn.  -- To swerve; stray; wander; digress; depart; deflect; err. 

DEVIATE:  To cause to deviate. [R.] To deviate a needle. J. D. Forbes. 

DEVIATION:  The voluntary and unnecessary departure of a ship from, or delay in, the regular and usual course of the specific voyage insured, thus releasing the underwriters from their responsibility. Deviation of a falling body (Physics), that deviation from a strictly vertical line of descent which occurs in a body falling freely, in consequence of the rotation of the earth.  -- Deviation of the compass, the angle which the needle of a ship's compass makes with the magnetic meridian by reason of the magnetism of the iron parts of the ship.  -- Deviation of the line of the vertical, the difference between the actual direction of a plumb line and the direction it would have if the earth were a perfect ellipsoid and homogeneous, -- caused by the attraction of a mountain, or irregularities in the earth's density. 

DEVIATOR:  One who, or that which, deviates. 

DEVIATORY:  Tending to deviate; devious; as, deviatory motion. [R.] Tully. 

DEVICEFUL:  Full of devices; inventive. [R.] A carpet, rich, and of deviceful thread. Chapman. 

DEVICEFULLY:  In a deviceful manner. [R.] 

DEVIL:  A dish, as a bone with the meat, broiled and excessively peppered; a grill with Cayenne pepper. Men and women busy in baking, broiling, roasting oysters, and preparing devils on the gridiron. Sir W. Scott.  6. (Manuf.)  A machine for tearing or cutting rags, cotton, etc. Blue devils. See under Blue.  -- Cartesian devil. See under Cartesian.  -- Devil bird (Zoöl.), one of two or more South African drongo shrikes (Edolius retifer, and E. remifer), believed by the natives to be connected with sorcery.  -- Devil may care, reckless, defiant of authority; -- used adjectively. Longfellow.  -- Devil's apron (Bot.), the large kelp (Laminaria saccharina, and L. longicruris) of the Atlantic ocean, having a blackish, leathery expansion, shaped somewhat like an apron.  -- Devil's coachhorse. (Zoöl.) (a) The black rove beetle (Ocypus olens). [Eng.] (b) A large, predacious, hemipterous insect (Prionotus cristatus); the wheel bug. [U.S.] -- Devil's darning-needle. (Zoöl.) See under Darn, v. t.  -- Devil's fingers, Devil's hand (Zoöl.), the common British starfish (Asterias rubens); -- also applied to a sponge with stout branches. [Prov. Eng., Irish & Scot.] -- Devil's riding-horse (Zoöl.), the American mantis (Mantis Carolina).  -- The Devil's tattoo, a drumming with the fingers or feet. "Jack played the Devil's tattoo on the door with his boot heels." F. Hardman (Blackw. Mag.).  -- Devil worship, worship of the power of evil; -- still practiced by barbarians who believe that the good and evil forces of nature are of equal power.  -- Printer's devil, the youngest apprentice in a printing office, who runs on errands, does dirty work (as washing the ink rollers and sweeping), etc. "Without fearing the printer's devil or the sheriff's officer." Macaulay.  -- Tasmanian devil (Zoöl.), a very savage carnivorous marsupial of Tasmania (Dasyurus, or Diabolus, ursinus).  -- To play devil with, to molest extremely; to ruin. [Low] 

DEVIL:  A small water bird. See Dabchick. 

DEVILESS:  A she-devil. [R.] Sterne. 

DEVILET:  A little devil. [R.] Barham. 

DEVILING:  A young devil. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

DEVILISM:  The state of the devil or of devils; doctrine of the devil or of devils. Bp. Hall. 

DEVILIZE:  To make a devil of. [R.] He that should deify a saint, should wrong him as much as he that should devilize him. Bp. Hall. 

DEVILKIN:  A little devil; a devilet. 

DEVILMENT:  Deviltry. Bp. Warburton. 

DEVILRY:  A dragon fly. See Darning needle, under Darn, v. t. 

DEVILSHIP:  The character or person of a devil or the devil. Cowley. 

DEVILTRY:  Diabolical conduct; malignant mischief; devilry. C. Reade. 

DEVILWOOD:  A kind of tree (Osmanthus Americanus), allied to the European olive. 

DEVIRGINATE:  Deprived of virginity. [R.] 

DEVIRGINATE:  To deprive of virginity; to deflour. [R.] Sandys. 

DEVIRGINATION:  A deflouring. [R.] Feltham. 

DEVISAL:  A devising. Whitney. 

DEVISE:  To give by will; -- used of real estate; formerly, also, of chattels.  Syn.  -- To bequeath; invent; discover; contrive; excogitate; imagine; plan; scheme. See Bequeath. 

DEVISE:  To form a scheme; to lay a plan; to contrive; to consider. I thought, devised, and Pallas heard my prayer. Pope.  Note: Devise was formerly followed by of; as, let us devise of ease. Spenser. 

DEVISE:  Device. See Device. [Obs.] 

DEVISEE:  One to whom a devise is made, or real estate given by will. 

DEVISER:  One who devises. 

DEVISOR:  One who devises, or gives real estate by will; a testator; -- correlative to devisee. 

DEVITABLE:  Avoidable. [Obs.] 

DEVITALIZE:  To deprive of life or vitality.  -- De*vi`tal*i*za"tion, n. 

DEVITATION:  An avoiding or escaping; also, a warning. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DEVITRIFICATION:  The act or process of devitrifying, or the state of being devitrified. Specifically, the conversion of molten glassy matter into a stony mass by slow cooling, the result being the formation of crystallites, microbites, etc., in the glassy base, which are then called devitrification products. 

DEVITRIFY:  To deprive of glasslike character; to take away vitreous luster and transparency from. 

DEVOCALIZE:  To make toneless; to deprive of vowel quality.  -- De*vo`cal*i*za"tion, n. If we take a high vowel, such as (i) [= nearly i of bit], and devocalize it, we obtain a hiss which is quite distinct enough to stand for a weak (jh). H. Sweet. 

DEVOCATION:  A calling off or away. [R.] Hallywell. 

DEVOID:  To empty out; to remove. 

DEVOIR:  Duty; service owed; hence, due act of civility or respect; -- now usually in the plural; as, they paid their devoirs to the ladies. "Do now your devoid, young knights!" Chaucer. 

DEVOLUTE:  To devolve. [Obs.] Foxe. 

DEVOLVE:  To pass by transmission or succession; to be handed over or down; -- generally with on or upon, sometimes with to or into; as, after the general fell, the command devolved upon (or on) the next officer in rank. His estate . . . devolved to Lord Somerville. Johnson. 

DEVOLVEMENT:  The act or process of devolving;; devolution. 

DEVON:  One of a breed of hardy cattle originating in the country of Devon, England. Those of pure blood have a deep red color. The small, longhorned variety, called North Devons, is distinguished by the superiority of its working oxen. 

DEVONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Devon or Devonshire in England; as, the Devonian rocks, period, or system. Devonian age (Geol.), the age next older than the Carboniferous and later than the Silurian; -- called also the Age of fishes. The various strata of this age compose the Devonian formation or system, and include the old red sandstone of Great Britain. They contain, besides plants and numerous invertebrates, the bony portions of many large and remarkable fishes of extinct groups. See the Diagram under Geology. 

DEVONIAN:  The Devonian age or formation. 

DEVORATION:  The act of devouring. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

DEVOTARY:  A votary. [Obs.] J. Gregory. 

DEVOTE:  Devoted; addicted; devout. [Obs.] Milton. 

DEVOTE:  A devotee. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 

DEVOTED:  Consecrated to a purpose; strongly attached; zealous; devout; as, a devoted admirer.  -- De*vot"ed*ly, adv.  -- De*vot"ed*ness, n. 

DEVOTEE:  One who is wholly devoted; esp., one given wholly to religion; one who is superstitiously given to religious duties and ceremonies; a bigot. While Father Le Blanc was very devout he was not a devotee. A. S. Hardy. 

DEVOTEMENT:  The state of being devoted, or set apart by a vow. [R.] Bp. Hurd. 

DEVOTER:  One who devotes; a worshiper. 

DEVOTIONAL:  Pertaining to, suited to, or used in, devotion; as, a devotional posture; devotional exercises; a devotional frame of mind.  DEVOTIONALIST; DEVOTIONIST De*vo"tion*al*ist, De*vo"tion*ist, n.  One given to devotion, esp. to excessive formal devotion. 

DEVOTIONALITY:  The practice of a devotionalist. A. H. Clough. 

DEVOTIONALLY:  In a devotional manner; toward devotion. 

DEVOTO:  A devotee. Dr. J. Scott. 

DEVOTOR:  A worshiper; one given to devotion. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

DEVOURABLE:  That may be devoured. 

DEVOURER:  One who, or that which, devours. 

DEVOURINGLY:  In a devouring manner. 

DEVOUTLESS:  Destitute of devotion.  -- De*vout"less*ly, adv.  -- De*vout"less*ness, n. 

DEVOUTNESS:  Quality or state of being devout. 

DEVOVE:  To devote. [Obs.] Cowley. 

DEVOW:  To disavow; to disclaim. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 

DEVULGARIZE:  To free from what is vulgar, common, or narrow. Shakespeare and Plutarch's "Lives" are very devulgarizing books. E. A. Abbott. 

DEW:  To wet with dew or as with dew; to bedew; to moisten; as with dew. The grasses grew A little ranker since they dewed them so. A. B. Saxton. 

DEW:  Same as Due, or Duty. [Obs.] Spenser.  DEWAR VESSEL Dew"ar ves`sel (du"er). [After Sir James Dewar, British physicist.]  A double-walled glass vessel for holding liquid air, etc., having the space between the walls exhausted so as to prevent conduction of heat, and sometimes having the glass silvered to prevent absorption of radiant heat; -- called also, according to the particular shape, Dewar bulb, Dewar tube, etc. 

DEWCLAW:  In any animal, esp. of the Herbivora, a rudimentary claw or small hoof not reaching the ground. Some cut off the dewclaws [of greyhounds]. J. H. Walsh. 

DEWDROP:  A drop of dew. Shak. 

DEWFALL:  The falling of dew; the time when dew begins to fall. 

DEWINESS:  State of being dewy. 

DEWLAPPED:  Furnished with a dewlap. 

DEWLESS:  Having no dew. Tennyson.  DEW-POINT Dew"-point`, n. (Meteor.)  The temperature at which dew begins to form. It varies with the humidity and temperature of the atmosphere. 

DEWRET:  To ret or rot by the process called dewretting. 

DEWRETTING:  Dewrotting; the process of decomposing the gummy matter of flax and hemp and setting the fibrous part, by exposure on a sward to dew, rain, and sunshine. 

DEWROT:  To rot, as flax or hemp, by exposure to rain, dew, and sun. See Dewretting. 

DEWWORM:  See Earthworm. 

DEWY:  Resembling a dew-covered surface; appearing as if covered with dew. 

DEXTER:  On the right-hand side of a shield, i. e., towards the right hand of its wearer. To a spectator in front, as in a pictorial representation, this would be the left side. Dexter chief, or Dexter point (Her.), a point in the dexter upper corner of the shield, being in the dexter extremity of the chief, as A in the cut.  -- Dexter base, a point in the dexter lower part or base of the shield, as B in the cut. 

DEXTERICAL:  Dexterous. [Obs.] 

DEXTEROUSLY:  In a dexterous manner; skillfully. 

DEXTEROUSNESS:  The quality of being dexterous; dexterity. 

DEXTRAD:  Toward the right side; dextrally. 

DEXTRAL:  Right, as opposed to sinistral, or left. Dextral shell (Zoöl.), a spiral shell the whorls of which turn from left right, or like the hands of a watch when the apex of the spire is toward the eye of the observer. 

DEXTRALITY:  The state of being on the right-hand side; also, the quality of being right-handed; right-handedness. Sir T. Browne. 

DEXTRALLY:  (adv. Towards the right; as, the hands of a watch rotate dextrally. 

DEXTRER:  A war horse; a destrer. [Obs.] "By him baiteth his dextrer." Chaucer. 

DEXTRIN:  A translucent, gummy, amorphous substance, nearly tasteless and odorless, used as a substitute for gum, for sizing, etc., and obtained from starch by the action of heat, acids, or diastase. It is of somewhat variable composition, containing several carbohydrates which change easily to their respective varieties of sugar. It is so named from its rotating the plane of polarization to the right; -- called also British gum, Alsace gum, gommelin, leiocome, etc. See Achroödextrin, and Erythrodextrin.  DEXTRO- Dex"tro-.  A prefix, from L. dexter, meaning, pertaining to, or toward, the right; (Chem. & Opt.)  having the property of turning the plane of polarized light to the right; as, dextrotartaric acid. 

DEXTROGEROUS:  See Dextrogyrate. 

DEXTROGLUCOSE:  Same as Dextrose. 

DEXTROGYRATE:  Same as Dextrorotatory. 

DEXTRONIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, dextrose; as, dextronic acid. Dextronic acid, a sirupy substance obtained by the partial oxidation of various carbohydrates, as dextrose, etc. 

DEXTROROTARY:  See Dextrotatory. 

DEXTROROTATORY:  Turning, or causing to turn, toward the right hand; esp., turning the plane of polarization of luminous rays toward the right hand; as, dextrorotatory crystals, sugars, etc. Cf. Levorotatory.  DEXTRORSAL; DEXTRORSE Dex*tror"sal, Dex"trorse`, a. Etym: [L. dextrorsum, contr. fr. dextrovorsum, dextroversum, toward the right side; dexter right + versus, vorsus, p. p. of vertere, vortere, to turn.]  Turning from the left to the right, in the ascending line, as in the spiral inclination of the stem of the common morning-glóry.  Note: At present scientists predicate dextrorse or sinistrorse quality of the plant regarded objectively; formerly the plant was regarded subjectively, and what is now called dextrorse was then considered sinistrorse. 

DEXTROSE:  A sirupy, or white crystalline, variety of sugar, C6H12O6 (so called from turning the plane of polarization to the right), occurring in many ripe fruits. Dextrose and levulose are obtained by the inversion of cane sugar or sucrose, and hence called invert sugar. Dextrose is chiefly obtained by the action of heat and acids on starch, and hence called also starch sugar. It is also formed from starchy food by the action of the amylolytic ferments of saliva and pancreatic juice.  Note: The solid products are known to the trade as grape sugar; the sirupy products as glucose, or mixing sirup. These are harmless, but are only about half as sweet as cane or sucrose.  DEXTROUS; DEXTROUSLY; DEXTROUSNESS Dex"trous, a., Dex"trous*ly, adv., Dex"trous*ness, n.  Same as Dexterous, Dexterously, etc. 

DEY:  A servant who has charge of the dairy; a dairymaid. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEY:  The governor of Algiers; -- so called before the French conquest in 1830. 

DEYE:  To die. [Obs.] Chaucer.  DEYNTE; DEYNTEE Deyn"te, Deyn"tee, n. & a.  See Dainty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DEZINCIFICATION:  The act or process of freeing from zinc; also, the condition resulting from the removal of zinc. 

DEZINCIFY:  To deprive of, or free from, zinc. 

DHOLE:  A fierce, wild dog (Canis Dukhunensis), found in the mountains of India. It is remarkable for its propensity to hunt the tiger and other wild animals in packs. 

DHONY:  A Ceylonese boat. See Doni.  DHOORRA; DHOURRA; DHURRA Dhoor"ra, Dhour"ra, or Dhur"ra (, n.  Indian millet. See Durra. 

DHOW:  A coasting vessel of Arabia, East Africa, and the Indian Ocean. It has generally but one mast and a lateen sail. [Also written dow.]  DI- Di-. Etym: [Gr. bis twice. See Two, and cf. Bi-, Dia-. The L. pref. dis- sometimes assumes the form di-. See Dis-.]  A prefix, signifying twofold, double, twice; (Chem.)  denoting two atoms, radicals, groups, or equivalents, as the case may be. See Bi-,  2.  DIA-; DI- Di"a-, Di-. Etym: [Gr. Two, and cf. 1st Di-.]  A prefix denoting through; also, between, apart, asunder, across. Before a vowel dia- becomes di-; as, diactinic; dielectric, etc. 

DIABASE:  A basic, dark-colored, holocrystalline, igneous rock, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and pyroxene with magnetic iron; -- often limited to rocks pretertiary in age. It includes part of what was early called greenstone. 

DIABATERIAL:  Passing over the borders. [R.] Mitford. 

DIABETES:  A disease which is attended with a persistent, excessive discharge of urine. Most frequently the urine is not only increased in quantity, but contains saccharine matter, in which case the disease is generally fatal. Diabetes mellitus Etym: [NL., sweet diabetes], that form of diabetes in which the urine contains saccharine matter.  -- Diabetes insipidus Etym: [NL., lit., diabetes], the form of diabetes in which the urine contains no abnormal constituent.  DIABETIC; DIABETICAL Di`a*bet"ic, Di`a*bet"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to diabetes; as, diabetic or diabetical treatment. Quian. Diabetic sugar. (Chem.) Same as Dextrose.  DIABLERIE; DIABLEY Dia`ble*rie", Di*ab"le*y, n. Etym: [F. diablerie, fr. diable devil, L. diabolus. See Devil.]  Devilry; sorcery or incantation; a diabolical deed; mischief.  DIABOLIC; DIABOLICAL Di`a*bol"ic, Di`a*bol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. diabolicus, Gr. diabolique. See Devil.]  Pertaining to the devil; resembling, or appropriate, or appropriate to, the devil; devilish; infernal; impious; atrocious; nefarious; outrageously wicked; as, a diabolic or diabolical temper or act. "Diabolic power." Milton. "The diabolical institution." Motley.  -- Di`a*bol"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Di`a*bol"ic*al*ness, n. 

DIABOLIFY:  To ascribed diabolical qualities to; to change into, or to represent as, a devil. [R.] Farindon. 

DIABOLIZE:  To render diabolical. [R.] 

DIABOLO:  An old game or sport (revived under this name) consisting in whirling on a string, fastened to two sticks, a small somewhat spool- shaped object (called the diabolo) so as to balance it on a string, toss it in the air and catch it, etc. 

DIACATHOLICON:  A universal remedy; -- name formerly to a purgative electuary. 

DIACAUSTIC:  Pertaining to, or possessing the properties of, a species of caustic curves formed by refraction. See Caustic surface, under Caustic. 

DIACAUSTIC:  That which burns by refraction, as a double convex lens, or the sun's rays concentrated by such a lens, sometimes used as a cautery.  2. (Math.)  A curved formed by the consecutive intersections of rays of light refracted through a lens.  DIACHYLON; DIACHYLUM Di*ach"y*lon, Di*ach"y*lum, n. Etym: [NL. diachylum, fr. Gr. (Med. & Chem.)  A plaster originally composed of the juices of several plants (whence its name), but now made of an oxide of lead and oil, and consisting essentially of glycerin mixed with lead salts of the fat acids. 

DIACID:  Divalent; -- said of a base or radical as capable of saturating two acid monad radicals or a dibasic acid. Cf. Dibasic, a., and Biacid. 

DIACODIUM:  A sirup made of poppies. 

DIACONAL:  Of or pertaining to a deacon. 

DIACONATE:  The office of a deacon; deaconship; also, a body or board of deacons. 

DIACONATE:  Governed by deacons. "Diaconate church." T. Goodwin. 

DIACOPE:  Tmesis. 

DIACOUSTIC:  Pertaining to the science or doctrine of refracted sounds. 

DIACOUSTICS:  That branch of natural philosophy which treats of the properties of sound as affected by passing through different mediums; -- called also diaphonics. See the Note under Acoustics.  DIACRITIC; DIACRITICAL Di`a*crit"ic, Di`a*crit"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Critic.]  That separates or distinguishes; -- applied to points or marks used to distinguish letters of similar form, or different sounds of the same letter, as, a, â, ä, o, ô, etc. "Diacritical points." Sir W. Jones. A glance at this typography will reveal great difficulties, which diacritical marks necessarily throw in the way of both printer and writer. A. J. Ellis. 

DIACTINIC:  Capable of transmitting the chemical or actinic rays of light; as, diactinic media. 

DIADELPHIA:  A Linnæan class of plants whose stamens are united into two bodies or bundles by their filaments.  DIADELPHIAN; DIADELPHOUS Di`a*del"phi*an, Di`a*del"phous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. diadelphe.] (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the class Diadelphia; having the stamens united into two bodies by their filaments (said of a plant or flower); grouped into two bundles or sets by coalescence of the filaments (said of stamens). 

DIADEM:  An arch rising from the rim of a crown (rarely also of a coronet), and uniting with others over its center. Diadem lemur. (Zoöl.) See Indri.  -- Diadem spider (Zoöl.), the garden spider. 

DIADEM:  To adorn with a diadem; to crown. Not so, when diadem'd with rays divine. Pope. To terminate the evil, To diadem the right. R. H. Neale. 

DIADROM:  A complete course or vibration; time of vibration, as of a pendulum. [Obs.] Locke.  DIAERESIS; DIERESIS Di*ær"e*sis, Di*er"e*sis, n.; pl. Diæreses or Diereses. Etym: [L. diaeresis, Gr. Heresy.]  1. (Gram.)  The separation or resolution of one syllable into two; -- the opposite of synæresis.  2. A mark consisting of two dots [..], placed over the second of two adjacent vowels, to denote that they are to be pronounced as distinct letters; as, coöperate, aërial. 

DIAERETIC:  Caustic. [Obs.] 

DIAGEOTROPIC:  Relating to, or exhibiting, diageotropism. 

DIAGEOTROPISM:  The tendency of organs (as roots) of plants to assume a position oblique or transverse to a direction towards the center of the earth. 

DIAGLYPH:  An intaglio. Mollett.  DIAGLYPHIC; DIAGLYPHTIC Di`a*glyph"ic, Di`a*glyph"tic, a.  Represented or formed by depressions in the general surface; as, diaglyphic sculpture or engraving; -- opposed to anaglyphic. 

DIAGNOSE:  To ascertain by diagnosis; to diagnosticate. See Diagnosticate. 

DIAGNOSIS:  The art or act of recognizing the presence of disease from its signs or symptoms, and deciding as to its character; also, the decision arrived at.  2. Scientific determination of any kind; the concise description of characterization of a species.  3. Critical perception or scrutiny; judgment based on such scrutiny; esp., perception pf, or judgment concerning, motives and character. The quick eye for effects, the clear diagnosis of men's minds, and the love of epigram. Compton Reade. My diagnosis of his character proved correct. J. Payn. Differential diagnosis (Med.), the determination of the distinguishing characteristics as between two similar diseases or conditions. 

DIAGNOSTIC:  Pertaining to, or furnishing, a diagnosis; indicating the nature of a disease. 

DIAGNOSTIC:  The mark or symptom by which one disease is known or distinguished from others. 

DIAGNOSTICATE:  To make a diagnosis of; to recognize by its symptoms, as a disease. 

DIAGNOSTICS:  That part of medicine which has to do with ascertaining the nature of diseases by means of their symptoms or signs. His rare skill in diagnostics. Macaulay. 

DIAGOMETER:  A sort of electroscope, invented by Rousseau, in which the dry pile is employed to measure the amount of electricity transmitted by different bodies, or to determine their conducting power. Nichol. 

DIAGONAL:  Joining two not adjacent angles of a quadrilateral or multilateral figure; running across from corner to corner; crossing at an angle with one of the sides. Diagonal bond (Masonry), herringbone work. See Herringbone, a.  -- Diagonal built (Shipbuilding), built by forming the outer skin of two layers of planking, making angles of about 45º with the keel, in opposite directions.  -- Diagonal cleavage. See under Cleavage.  -- Diagonal molding (Arch.), a chevron or zigzag molding.  -- Diagonal rib. (Arch.) See Cross-springer.  -- Diagonal scale, a scale which consists of a set of parallel lines, with other lines crossing them obliquely, so that their intersections furnish smaller subdivisions of the unit of measure than could be conveniently marked on a plain scale.  -- Diagonal stratification. (Geol.) Same as Cross bedding, under Cross, a. 

DIAGONAL:  A member, in a framed structure, running obliquely across a panel.  3. A diagonal cloth; a kind of cloth having diagonal stripes, ridges, or welts made in the weaving. 

DIAGONALLY:  In a diagonal direction. 

DIAGONIAL:  Diagonal; diametrical; hence; diametrically opposed. [Obs.] Sin can have no tenure by law at all, but is rather an eternal outlaw, and in hostility with law past all atonement; both diagonal contraries, as much allowing one another as day and night together in one hemisphere. Milton. 

DIAGRAM:  A figure or drawing made to illustrate a statement, or facilitate a demonstration; a plan.  2. Any simple drawing made for mathematical or scientific purposes, or to assist a verbal explanation which refers to it; a mechanical drawing, as distinguished from an artistical one. Indicator diagram. (Steam Engine) See Indicator card, under indicator 

DIAGRAM:  To put into the form of a diagram. 

DIAGRAMMATIC:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a diagram; showing by diagram.  -- Di`a*gram*mat"ic*ly, adv. 

DIAGRAPH:  A drawing instrument, combining a protractor and scale.  DIAGRAPHIC; DIAGRAPHICAL Di`a*graph"ic, Di`a*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. diagraphique.]  Descriptive. 

DIAGRAPHICS:  The art or science of descriptive drawing; especially, the art or science of drawing by mechanical appliances and mathematical rule. 

DIAHELIOTROPIC:  Relating or, or manifesting, diaheliotropism. 

DIAHELIOTROPISM:  A tendency of leaves or other organs of plants to have their dorsal surface faced towards the rays of light. 

DIAL:  To survey with a dial. Raymond. 

DIALECTAL:  Relating to a dialect; dialectical; as, a dialectical variant. 

DIALECTIC:  Same as Dialectics. Plato placed his dialectic above all sciences. Liddell & Scott.  DIALECTIC; DIALECTICAL Di`a*lec"tic, Di`a*lec"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. dialecticus, Gr. dialectique. See Dialect.]  1. Pertaining to dialectics; logical; argumental.  2. Pertaining to a dialect or to dialects. Earle. 

DIALECTICALLY:  In a dialectical manner. 

DIALECTICIAN:  One versed in dialectics; a logician; a reasoner. 

DIALECTICS:  That branch of logic which teaches the rules and modes of reasoning; the application of logical principles to discursive reasoning; the science or art of discriminating truth from error; logical discussion.  Note: Dialectics was defined by Aristotle to be the method of arguing with probability on any given problem, and of defending a tenet without inconsistency. By Plato, it was used in the following senses:  1. Discussion by dialogue as a method of scientific investigation.  2. The method of investigating the truth by analysis.  3. The science of ideas or of the nature and laws of being -- higher metaphysics. By Kant, it was employed to signify the logic of appearances or illusions, whether these arise from accident or error, or from those necessary limitations which, according to this philosopher, originate in the constitution of the human intellect. 

DIALECTOLOGY:  That branch of philology which is devoted to the consideration of dialects. Beck. 

DIALECTOR:  One skilled in dialectics. 

DIALIST:  A maker of dials; one skilled in dialing. 

DIALLAGE:  A figure by which arguments are placed in various points of view, and then turned to one point. Smart. 

DIALLAGE:  A dark green or bronze-colored laminated variety of pyroxene, common in certain igneous rocks. 

DIALLEL:  Meeting and intersecting, as lines; not parallel; -- opposed to parallel. [Obs.] Ash. 

DIALLYL:  A volatile, pungent, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H10, consisting of two allyl radicals, and belonging to the acetylene series. 

DIALOGICAL:  Relating to a dialogue; dialogistical. Burton. 

DIALOGICALLY:  In the manner or nature of a dialogue. Goldsmith. 

DIALOGISM:  An imaginary speech or discussion between two or more; dialogue. Fulke. 

DIALOGIST:  Pertaining to a dialogue; having the form or nature of a dialogue.  -- Di*al`o*gis"tic*al*ly, adv. 

DIALOGITE:  Native carbonate of manganese; rhodochrosite. 

DIALOGIZE:  To discourse in dialogue. Fotherby. 

DIALOGUE:  To take part in a dialogue; to dialogize. [R.] Shak. 

DIALOGUE:  To express as in dialogue. [R.] And dialogued for him what he would say. Shak. 

DIALYPETALOUS:  Having separate petals; polypetalous. 

DIALYSIS:  Diæresis. See Diæresis,  1.  2. (Rhet.)  Same as Asyndeton.  3. (Med.) (a) Debility. (b) A solution of continuity; division; separation of parts.  4. (Chem.)  The separation of different substances in solution, as crystalloids and colloids, by means of their unequal diffusion, especially through natural or artificial membranes. 

DIALYTIC:  Having the quality of unloosing or separating. Clarke. Dialytic telescope, an achromatic telescope in which the colored dispersion produced by a single object lens of crown glass is corrected by a smaller concave lens, or combination of lenses, of high dispersive power, placed at a distance in the narrower part of the converging cone of rays, usually near the middle of the tube. 

DIALYZATE:  The material subjected to dialysis. 

DIALYZATION:  The act or process of dialysis. 

DIALYZE:  To separate, prepare, or obtain, by dialysis or osmose; to pass through an animal membrane; to subject to dialysis. [Written also dialyse.] 

DIALYZED:  Prepared by diffusion through an animal membrane; as, dialyzed iron. 

DIALYZER:  The instrument or medium used to effect chemical dialysis. 

DIAMAGNET:  A body having diamagnetic polarity. 

DIAMAGNETIC:  Pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, diamagnetism; taking, or being of a nature to take, a position at right angles to the lines of magnetic force. See Paramagnetic. Diamagnetic attraction. See under Attraction. 

DIAMAGNETIC:  Any substance, as bismuth, glass, phosphorous, etc., which in a field of magnetic force is differently affected from the ordinary magnetic bodies, as iron; that is, which tends to take a position at right angles to the lines of magnetic force, and is repelled by either pole of the magnet. 

DIAMAGNETICALLY:  In the manner of, or according to, diamagnetism. 

DIAMANTIFEROUS:  Yielding diamonds. 

DIAMANTINE:  Adamantine. [Obs.] 

DIAMETER:  The distance through the lower part of the shaft of a column, used as a standard measure for all parts of the order. See Module. Conjugate diameters. See under Conjugate. 

DIAMETRAL:  Pertaining to a diameter; diametrical. Diametral curve, Diametral surface (Geom.), any line or surface which bisects a system of parallel chords drawn in a curve or surface.  -- Diametral planes (Crystal.), planes in which two of the axes lie. 

DIAMETRAL:  A diameter. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DIAMETRALLY:  Diametrically.  DIAMETRIC; DIAMETRICAL Di*am"e*tric, Di*am"e*tric*al, a.  1. Of or pertaining to a diameter.  2. As remote as possible, as if at the opposite end of a diameter; directly adverse. 

DIAMETRICALLY:  In a diametrical manner; directly; as, diametrically opposite. Whose principles were diametrically opposed to his. Macaulay. 

DIAMIDE:  Any compound containing two amido groups united with one or more acid or negative radicals, -- as distinguished from a diamine. Cf. Amido acid, under Amido, and Acid amide, under Amide.  DIAMIDO- Di*am"i*do- (, a. (Chem.)  A prefix or combining form of Diamine.  Note: [Also used adjectively.] 

DIAMINE:  A compound containing two amido groups united with one or more basic or positive radicals, -- as contrasted with a diamide.  Note: In chemical nomenclature, if any amine or diamine is named by prefixing the nitrogen group, the name of the latter takes the form of amido, diamido, etc., thus ethylene diamine, C2H4.(NH2)2, is also called diamido-ethylene. 

DIAMOND:  A pointed projection, like a four-sided pyramid, used for ornament in lines or groups.  5. (Baseball)  The infield; the square space, 90 feet on a side, having the bases at its angles.  6. (Print.)  The smallest kind of type in English printing, except that called brilliant, which is seldom seen.  Note: * This line is printed in the type called Diamond. Black diamond, coal; (Min.) See Carbonado.  -- Bristol diamond. See Bristol stone, under Bristol.  -- Diamond beetle (Zoöl.), a large South American weevil (Entimus imperialis), remarkable for its splendid luster and colors, due to minute brilliant scales.  -- Diamond bird (Zoöl.), a small Australian bird (Pardalotus punctatus, family Ampelidæ.). It is black, with white spots.  -- Diamond drill (Engin.), a rod or tube the end of which is set with black diamonds; -- used for perforating hard substances, esp. for boring in rock.  -- Diamond finch (Zoöl.), a small Australian sparrow, often kept in a cage. Its sides are black, with conspicuous white spots, and the rump is bright carmine.  -- Diamond groove (Iron Working), a groove of V-section in a roll.  -- Diamond mortar (Chem.), a small steel mortar used for pulverizing hard substances.  -- Diamond-point tool, a cutting tool whose point is diamond-shaped.  -- Diamond snake (Zoöl.), a harmless snake of Australia (Morelia spilotes); the carpet snake.  -- Glazier's diamond, a small diamond set in a glazier's tool, for cutting glass. 

DIAMOND:  Resembling a diamond; made of, or abounding in, diamonds; as, a diamond chain; a diamond field.  DIAMOND ANNIVERSARY; DIAMOND JUBILEE Diamond anniversary, jubilee, etc.  One celebrated upon the completion of sixty, or, according to some, seventy-five, years from the beginning of the thing commemorated.  DIAMOND-BACK Di"a*mond-back`, n. (Zoöl.)  The salt-marsh terrapin of the Atlantic coast (Malacoclemmys palustris). 

DIAMONDIZE:  To set with diamonds; to adorn; to enrich. [R.] Diamondizing of your subject. B. Jonson.  DIAMOND-SHAPED Di"a*mond-shaped`, a.  Shaped like a diamond or rhombus.  DIAMOND STATE Diamond State.  Delaware; -- a nickname alluding to its small size. 

DIAMYLENE:  A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H20, of the ethylene series, regarded as a polymeric form of amylene. 

DIAN:  , Diana. [Poetic] 

DIANA:  The daughter of Jupiter and Latona; a virgin goddess who presided over hunting, chastity, and marriage; -- identified with the Greek goddess Artemis. And chaste Diana haunts the forest shade. Pope. Diana monkey (Zoöl.), a handsome, white-bearded monkey of West Africa (Cercopithecus Diana). 

DIANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having two stamens. 

DIANDRIAN:  Diandrous. 

DIANDROUS:  Of or pertaining to the class Diandria; having two stamens. 

DIANIUM:  Same as Columbium. [Obs.] 

DIANOETIC:  Pertaining to the discursive faculty, its acts or products. I would employ . . . dianoetic to denote the operation of the discursive, elaborative, or comparative faculty. Sir W. Hamilton. 

DIANOIALOGY:  The science of the dianoetic faculties, and their operations. Sir W. Hamilton. 

DIANTHUS:  A genus of plants containing some of the most popular of cultivated flowers, including the pink, carnation, and Sweet William. 

DIAPASE:  Same as Diapason. [Obs.] A tuneful diapase of pleasures. Spenser. 

DIAPASM:  Powdered aromatic herbs, sometimes made into little balls and strung together. [Obs.] 

DIAPASON:  The octave, or interval which includes all the tones of the diatonic scale.  2. Concord, as of notes an octave apart; harmony. The fair music that all creatures made . . . In perfect diapason. Milton.  3. The entire compass of tones. Through all the compass of the notes it ran, The diapason closing full in man. Dryden.  4. A standard of pitch; a tuning fork; as, the French normal diapason.  5. One of certain stops in the organ, so called because they extend through the scale of the instrument. They are of several kinds, as open diapason, stopped diapason, double diapason, and the like. 

DIAPEDESIS:  The passage of the corpuscular elements of the blood from the blood vessels into the surrounding tissues, without rupture of the walls of the blood vessels. 

DIAPENTE:  The interval of the fifth.  2. (Med.)  A composition of five ingredients. 

DIAPER:  Surface decoration of any sort which consists of the constant repetition of one or more simple figures or units of design evenly spaced.  3. A towel or napkin for wiping the hands, etc. Let one attend him with a silver basin, . . . Another bear the ewer, the third a diaper. Shak.  4. An infant's breechcloth. 

DIAPER:  To draw flowers or figures, as upon cloth. "If you diaper on folds." Peacham. 

DIAPERING:  Same as Diaper, n.,  2. 

DIAPHANE:  A woven silk stuff with transparent and colored figures; diaper work. 

DIAPHANED:  Transparent or translucent. [R.] 

DIAPHANEITY:  The quality of being diaphanous; transparency; pellucidness. 

DIAPHANIC:  Having power to transmit light; transparent; diaphanous. 

DIAPHANIE:  The art of imitating 

DIAPHANOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the transparency of the air. 

DIAPHANOSCOPE:  A dark box constructed for viewing transparent pictures, with or without a lens. 

DIAPHANOTYPE:  A colored photograph produced by superimposing a translucent colored positive over a strong uncolored one. 

DIAPHANOUS:  Allowing light to pass through, as porcelain; translucent or transparent; pellucid; clear. Another cloud in the region of them, light enough to be fantastic and diaphanous. Landor. 

DIAPHANOUSLY:  Translucently. 

DIAPHEMETRIC:  Relating to the measurement of the tactile sensibility of parts; as, diaphemetric compasses. Dunglison.  DIAPHONIC; DIAPHONICAL Di`a*phon"ic, Di`a*phon"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Diacoustic. 

DIAPHONICS:  The doctrine of refracted sound; diacoustics. 

DIAPHORESIS:  Perspiration, or an increase of perspiration.  DIAPHORETIC; DIAPHORETICAL Di`a*pho*ret"ic, Di`a*pho*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. diaphoreticus, Gr. diaphorétique. See Diaphoresis.]  Having the power to increase perspiration. 

DIAPHORETIC:  A medicine or agent which promotes perspiration.  Note: Diaphoretics differ from sudorifics; the former only increase the insensible perspiration, the latter excite the sensible discharge called sweat. Parr. 

DIAPHOTE:  An instrument designed for transmitting pictures by telegraph. Fallows. 

DIAPHRAGM:  The muscular and tendinous partition separating the cavity of the chest from that of the abdomen; the midriff.  3. (Zoöl.)  A calcareous plate which divides the cavity of certain shells into two parts.  4. (Opt.)  A plate with an opening, which is generally circular, used in instruments to cut off marginal portions of a beam of light, as at the focus of a telescope.  5. (Mach.)  A partition in any compartment, for various purposes. Diaphragm pump, one in which a flexible diaphragm takes the place of a piston. 

DIAPHRAGMATIC:  Pertaining to a diaphragm; as, diaphragmatic respiration; the diaphragmatic arteries and nerves. 

DIAPHYSIS:  An abnormal prolongation of the axis of inflorescence.  2. (Anat.)  The shaft, or main part, of a bone, which is first ossified. 

DIAPNOIC:  Slightly increasing an insensible perspiration; mildly diaphoretic.  -- n.  A gentle diaphoretic. 

DIAPOPHYSICAL:  Pertaining to a diapophysis. 

DIAPOPHYSIS:  The dorsal transverse, or tubercular, process of a vertebra. See Vertebra. 

DIARCHY:  A form of government in which the supreme power is vested in two persons.  DIARIAL; DIARIAN Di*a"ri*al, Di*a"ri*an, a. Etym: [See Diary.]  Pertaining to a diary; daily. 

DIARIST:  One who keeps a diary.  DIARRHEA; DIARRHOEA Di`ar*rhe"a, Di`ar*rhoe"a, n. Etym: [L. diarrhoea, Gr. stream. See Stream.] (Med.)  A morbidly frequent and profuse discharge of loose or fluid evacuations from the intestines, without tenesmus; a purging or looseness of the bowels; a flux.  DIARRHEAL; DIARRHOEAL Di`ar*rhe"al, Di`ar*rhoe"al a. (Med.)  Of or pertaining to diarrhea; like diarrhea.  DIARRHETIC; DIARRHOETIC Di`ar*rhet"ic, Di`ar*rhoet"ic, a. (Med.)  Producing diarrhea, or a purging. 

DIARTHRODIAL:  Relating to diarthrosis, or movable articulations. 

DIARTHROSIS:  A form of articulation which admits of considerable motion; a complete joint; abarticulation. See Articulation. 

DIARY:  A register of daily events or transactions; a daily record; a journal; a blank book dated for the record of daily memoranda; as, a diary of the weather; a physician's diary. 

DIARY:  lasting for one day; as, a diary fever. [Obs.] "Diary ague." Bacon. 

DIASPORE:  A hydrate of alumina, often occurring in white lamellar masses with brilliant pearly luster; -- so named on account of its decrepitating when heated before the blowpipe. 

DIASTASE:  A soluble, nitrogenous ferment, capable of converting starch and dextrin into sugar.  Note: The name is more particularly applied to that ferment formed during the germination of grain, as in the malting of barley; but it is also occasionally used to designate the amylolytic ferment contained in animal fluids, as in the saliva. 

DIASTASIC:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, diastase; as, diastasic ferment. 

DIASTASIS:  A forcible of bones without fracture. 

DIASTATIC:  Relating to diastase; having the properties of diastase; effecting the conversion of starch into sugar. The influence of acids and alkalies on the diastatic action of saliva. Lauder Brunton. 

DIASTEMA:  A vacant space, or gap, esp. between teeth in a jaw. 

DIASTER:  A double star; -- applied to the nucleus of a cell, when, during cell division, the loops of the nuclear network separate into two groups, preparatory to the formation of two daughter nuclei. See Karyokinesis. 

DIASTOLE:  The rhythmical expansion or dilatation of the heart and arteries; -- correlative to systole, or contraction.  2. (Gram.)  A figure by which a syllable naturally short is made long. 

DIASTOLIC:  Of or pertaining to diastole. 

DIASTYLE:  See under Intercolumniation. 

DIATESSARON:  The interval of a fourth.  2. (Theol.)  A continuous narrative arranged from the first four books of the New Testament.  3. An electuary compounded of four medicines. 

DIATHERMAL:  Freely permeable by radiant heat.  DIATHERMANCY; DIATHERMANEITY Di`a*ther"man*cy, Di`a*ther`ma*ne"i*ty, n. Etym: [See Diathermanous.]  The property of transmitting radiant heat; the quality of being diathermous. Melloni. 

DIATHERMANISM:  The doctrine or the phenomena of the transmission of radiant heat. Nichol. 

DIATHERMANOUS:  Having the property of transmitting radiant heat; diathermal; - - opposed to athermanous. 

DIATHERMIC:  Affording a free passage to heat; as, diathermic substances. Melloni. 

DIATHERMOMETER:  An instrument for examining the thermal resistance or heat- conducting power of liquids. 

DIATHERMOUS:  Same as Diathermal. 

DIATHESIS:  Bodily condition or constitution, esp. a morbid habit which predisposes to a particular disease, or class of diseases. 

DIATHETIC:  Pertaining to, or dependent on, a diathesis or special constitution of the body; as, diathetic disease. 

DIATOM:  One of the Diatomaceæ, a family of minute unicellular Algæ having a siliceous covering of great delicacy, each individual multiplying by spontaneous division. By some authors diatoms are called Bacillariæ, but this word is not in general use.  2. A particle or atom endowed with the vital principle. The individual is nothing. He is no more than the diatom, the bit of protoplasm. Mrs. E. Lynn Linton. 

DIATOMOUS:  Having a single, distinct, diagonal cleavage; -- said of crystals. Mohs. 

DIATONIC:  Pertaining to the scale of eight tones, the eighth of which is the octave of the first. Diatonic scale (Mus.), a scale consisting of eight sounds with seven intervals, of which two are semitones and five are whole tones; a modern major or minor scale, as distinguished from the chromatic scale. 

DIATONICALLY:  In a diatonic manner. 

DIATRIBE:  A prolonged or exhaustive discussion; especially, an acrimonious or invective harangue; a strain of abusive or railing language; a philippic. The ephemeral diatribe of a faction. John Morley. 

DIATRIBIST:  One who makes a diatribe or diatribes. 

DIATRYMA:  An extinct eocene bird from New Mexico, larger than the ostrich.  DIAZEUCTIC; DIAZEUTIC Di`a*zeuc"tic, Di`a*zeu"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anc. Mus.)  Disjoining two fourths; as, the diazeutic tone, which, like that from F to G in modern music, lay between two fourths, and, being joined to either, made a fifth. [Obs.]  DIAZO- Di*az"o- (. Etym: [Pref. di- + azo-] (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively), meaning pertaining to, or derived from, a series of compounds containing a radical of two nitrogen atoms, united usually to an aromatic radical; as, diazo- benzene, C6H5.N2.OH.  Note: Diazo compounds are in general unstable, but are of great importance in recent organic chemistry. They are obtained by a partial reduction of the salts of certain amido compounds. Diazo reactions (Chem.), a series of reactions whereby diazo compounds are employed in substitution. These reactions are of great importance in organic chemistry. 

DIAZOTIZE:  To subject to such reactions or processes that diazo compounds, or their derivatives, shall be produced by chemical exchange or substitution. 

DIB:  To dip. [Prov. Eng.] Walton. 

DIB:  A child's game, played with dib bones. 

DIBASIC:  Having two acid hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basic atoms or radicals, in forming salts; bibasic; -- said of acids, as oxalic or sulphuric acids. Cf. Diacid, Bibasic.  Note: In the case of certain acids dibasic and divalent are not synonymous; as, tartaric acid is tetravalent and dibasic, lactic acid is divalent but monobasic. 

DIBASICITY:  The property or condition of being dibasic. 

DIBBER:  A dibble. Halliwell. 

DIBBLE:  A pointed implement used to make holes in the ground in which no set out plants or to plant seeds. 

DIBBLE:  To dib or dip frequently, as in angling. Walton. 

DIBBLER:  One who, or that which, dibbles, or makes holes in the ground for seed. 

DIBRANCHIATA:  An order of cephalopods which includes those with two gills, an apparatus for emitting an inky fluid, and either eight or ten cephalic arms bearing suckers or hooks, as the octopi and squids. See Cephalopoda. 

DIBRANCHIATE:  Having two gills.  -- n.  One of the Dibranchiata. 

DIBS:  A sweet preparation or treacle of grape juice, much used in the East. Johnston. 

DIBSTONE:  A pebble used in a child's game called dibstones. Locke. 

DIBUTYL:  A liquid hydrocarbon, C8H18, of the marsh-gas series, being one of several octanes, and consisting of two butyl radicals. Cf. Octane. 

DICACIOUS:  Talkative; pert; saucy. [Obs.] 

DICACITY:  Pertness; sauciness. [Obs.] 

DICALCIC:  Having two atoms or equivalents of calcium to the molecule. 

DICARBONIC:  Containing two carbon residues, or two carboxyl or radicals; as, oxalic acid is a dicarbonic acid. 

DICAST:  A functionary in ancient Athens answering nearly to the modern juryman. 

DICASTERY:  A court of justice; judgment hall. [R.] J. S. Mill. 

DICE:  Small cubes used in gaming or in determining by chance; also, the game played with dice. See Die, n. Dice coal, a kind of coal easily splitting into cubical fragments. Brande & C. 

DICEBOX:  A box from which dice are thrown in gaming. Thackeray. 

DICENTRA:  A genus of herbaceous plants, with racemes of two-spurred or heart-shaped flowers, including the Dutchman's breeches, and the more showy Bleeding heart (D. spectabilis). [Corruptly written dielytra.] 

DICEPHALOUS:  Having two heads on one body; double-headed. 

DICER:  A player at dice; a dice player; a gamester. As false as dicers' oaths. Shak. 

DICH:  To ditch. [Obs.] 

DICHASTIC:  Capable of subdividing spontaneously. 

DICHLAMYDEOUS:  Having two coverings, a calyx and in corolla. 

DICHLORIDE:  Same as Bichloride. 

DICHOGAMOUS:  Manifesting dichogamy. 

DICHOGAMY:  The condition of certain species of plants, in which the stamens and pistil do not mature simultaneously, so that these plants can never fertilize themselves. 

DICHOTOMIST:  One who dichotomizes. Bacon. 

DICHOTOMIZE:  To exhibit as a half disk. See Dichotomy,  3. "[The moon] was dichotomized." Whewell. 

DICHOTOMIZE:  To separate into two parts; to branch dichotomously; to become dichotomous. 

DICHOTOMOUS:  Regularly dividing by pairs from bottom to top; as, a dichotomous stem.  -- Di*chot"o*mous*ly, adv. 

DICHOTOMY:  That phase of the moon in which it appears bisected, or shows only half its disk, as at the quadratures.  4. (Biol.)  Successive division and subdivision, as of a stem of a plant or a vein of the body, into two parts as it proceeds from its origin; successive bifurcation.  5. The place where a stem or vein is forked.  6. (Logic)  Division into two; especially, the division of a class into two subclasses opposed to each other by contradiction, as the division of the term man into white and not white. 

DICHROIC:  Having the property of dichroism; as, a dichroic crystal. 

DICHROISCOPE:  Same as Dichroscope. 

DICHROISM:  The property of presenting different colors by transmitted light, when viewed in two different directions, the colors being unlike in the direction of unlike or unequal axes. 

DICHROITE:  Iolite; -- so called from its presenting two different colors when viewed in two different directions. See Iolite. 

DICHROITIC:  Dichroic. 

DICHROMATE:  A salt of chromic acid containing two equivalents of the acid radical to one of the base; -- called also bichromate. 

DICHROMATIC:  Having two color varieties, or two phases differing in color, independently of age or sex, as in certain birds and insects. 

DICHROMATISM:  The state of being dichromatic. 

DICHROMIC:  Furnishing or giving two colors; -- said of defective vision, in which all the compound colors are resolvable into two elements instead of three. Sir J. Herschel. 

DICHROOUS:  Dichroic. 

DICHROSCOPE:  An instrument for examining the dichroism of crystals. 

DICHROSCOPIC:  Pertaining to the dichroscope, or to observations with it. 

DICKCISSEL:  The American black-throated bunting (Spiza Americana). 

DICKENS:  The devil. [A vulgar euphemism.] I can not tell what the dickens his name is. Shak. 

DICKER:  To negotiate a dicker; to barter. [U.S.] "Ready to dicker. and to swap." Cooper.  DICKEY; DICKY Dick"ey, Dick"y, n.  1. A seat behind a carriage, for a servant.  2. A false shirt front or bosom.  3. A gentleman's shirt collar. [Local, U. S.] 

DICLINIC:  Having two of the intersections between the three axes oblique. See Crystallization. 

DICLINOUS:  Having the stamens and pistils in separate flowers. Gray. 

DICOCCOUS:  Composed pf two coherent, one-seeded carpels; as, a dicoccous capsule. 

DICOTYLEDON:  A plant whose seeds divide into two seed lobes, or cotyledons, in germinating. 

DICOTYLEDONOUS:  Having two cotyledons or seed lobes; as, a dicotyledonous plant.  DICROTAL; DICROTOUS Di"cro*tal, Di"cro*tous, a. Etym: [Gr.  Dicrotic. 

DICROTISM:  A condition in which there are two beats or waves of the arterial pulse to each beat of the heart. 

DICTA:  See Dictum. 

DICTAGRAPH:  Var. of Dictograph. 

DICTAMEN:  A dictation or dictate. [R.] Falkland. 

DICTAMNUS:  A suffrutescent, D. Fraxinella (the only species), with strong perfume and showy flowers. The volatile oil of the leaves is highly inflammable. 

DICTAPHONE:  A form of phonographic recorder and reproducer adapted for use in dictation, as in business. 

DICTATE:  A statement delivered with authority; an order; a command; an authoritative rule, principle, or maxim; a prescription; as, listen to the dictates of your conscience; the dictates of the gospel. I credit what the Grecian dictates say. Prior.  Syn.  -- Command; injunction; direction suggestion; impulse; admonition. 

DICTATORIAN:  Dictatorial. [Obs.] 

DICTATORSHIP:  The office, or the term of office, of a dictator; hence, absolute power. 

DICTATORY:  Dogmatical; overbearing; dictatorial. Milton. 

DICTATRESS:  A woman who dictates or commands. Earth's chief dictatress, ocean's mighty queen. Byron. 

DICTATRIX:  A dictatress. 

DICTATURE:  Office of a dictator; dictatorship. [R.] Bacon. 

DICTION:  Choice of words for the expression of ideas; the construction, disposition, and application of words in discourse, with regard to clearness, accuracy, variety, etc.; mode of expression; language; as, the diction of Chaucer's poems. His diction blazes up into a sudden explosion of prophetic grandeur. De Quincey.  Syn.  -- Diction, Style, Phraseology. Style relates both to language and thought; diction, to language only; phraseology, to the mechanical structure of sentences, or the mode in which they are phrased. The style of Burke was enriched with all the higher graces of composition; his diction was varied and copious; his phraseology, at times, was careless and cumbersome. "Diction is a general term applicable alike to a single sentence or a connected composition. Errors in grammar, false construction, a confused disposition of words, or an improper application of them, constitute bad diction; but the niceties, the elegancies, the peculiarities, and the beauties of composition, which mark the genius and talent of the writer, are what is comprehended under the name of style." Crabb. 

DICTIONALRIAN:  A lexicographer. [R.] 

DICTOGRAPH:  A telephonic instrument for office or other similar use, having a sound-magnifying device enabling the ordinary mouthpiece to be dispensed with. Much use has been made of it for overhearing, or for recording, conversations for the purpose of obtaining evidence for use in litigation.   The makers of this instrument spell it dictograph. 

DICTYOGEN:  A plant with netveined leaves, and monocotyledonous embryos, belonging to the class Dictyogenæ, proposed by Lindley for the orders Dioscoreaceæ, Smilaceæ, Trilliaceæ, etc. 

DICYANIDE:  A compound of a binary type containing two cyanogen groups or radicals; -- called also bicyanide. 

DICYEMATA:  An order of worms parasitic in cephalopods. They are remarkable for the extreme simplicity of their structure. The embryo exists in two forms. 

DICYEMID:  Like or belonging to the Dicyemata.  -- n.  One of the Dicyemata. 

DICYNODONT:  One of a group of extinct reptiles having the jaws armed with a horny beak, as in turtles, and in the genus Dicynodon, supporting also a pair of powerful tusks. Their remains are found in triassic strata of South Africa and India. 

DID:  of Do.  DIDACTIC; DIDACTICAL Di*dac"tic, Di*dac"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. docere to teach: cf. F. didactique. See Docile.]  Fitted or intended to teach; conveying instruction; preceptive; instructive; teaching some moral lesson; as, didactic essays. "Didactical writings." Jer. Taylor. The finest didactic poem in any language. Macaulay. 

DIDACTIC:  A treatise on teaching or education. [Obs.] Milton. 

DIDACTICALLY:  In a didactic manner. 

DIDACTICISM:  The didactic method or system. 

DIDACTICITY:  Aptitude for teaching. Hare. 

DIDACTICS:  The art or science of teaching. 

DIDACTYL:  An animal having only two digits. 

DIDACTYLOUS:  Having only two digits; two-toed. 

DIDAL:  A kind of triangular spade. [Obs.] 

DIDAPPER:  See Dabchick. 

DIDASCALAR:  Didascalic. [R.] 

DIDASCALIC:  Didactic; preceptive. [R.] Prior. 

DIDDLE:  To totter, as a child in walking. [Obs.] Quarles. 

DIDDLE:  To cheat or overreach. [Colloq.] Beaconsfield. 

DIDDLER:  A cheat. [Colloq.] Jeremy Diddler, a character in a play by James Kenney, entitled "Raising the wind." The name is applied to any needy, tricky, constant borrower; a confidence man. 

DIDELPHIA:  The subclass of Mammalia which includes the marsupials. See Marsupialia. 

DIDELPHIAN:  Of or relating to the Didelphia.  -- n.  One of the Didelphia. 

DIDELPHIC:  Having the uterus double; of or pertaining to the Didelphia. 

DIDELPHID:  Same as Didelphic. 

DIDELPHID:  A marsupial animal. 

DIDELPHOUS:  Didelphic. 

DIDELPHOUS:  Formerly, any marsupial; but the term is now restricted to an American genus which includes the opossums, of which there are many species. See Opossum. [Written also Didelphis.] See Illustration in Appendix. Cuvier. 

DIDELPHYC:  Same as Didelphic. 

DIDELPHYS:  Formerly, any marsupial; but the term is now restricted to an American genus which includes the opossums, of which there are many species. See Opossum. [Written also Didelphis.] See Illustration in Appendix.  Cuvier. 

DIDINE:  Like or pertaining to the genus Didus, or the dodo. 

DIDO:  A shrewd trick; an antic; a caper. To cut a dido, to play a trick; to cut a caper; -- perhaps so called from the trick of Dido, who having bought so much land as a hide would cover, is said to have cut it into thin strips long enough to inclose a spot for a citadel. 

DIDONIA:  The curve which on a given surface and with a given perimeter contains the greatest area. Tait.  DIDRACHM; DIDRACHMA Di"drachm, Di*drach"ma, n. Etym: [Gr.  A two-drachma piece; an ancient Greek silver coin, worth nearly forty cents. 

DIDST:  , the 2d pers. sing. imp. of Do. 

DIDUCEMENT:  Diduction; separation into distinct parts. Bacon. 

DIDUCTION:  The act of drawing apart; separation. 

DIDYM:  See Didymium. 

DIDYMIUM:  A rare metallic substance usually associated with the metal cerium; -- hence its name. It was formerly supposed to be an element, but has since been found to consist of two simpler elementary substances, neodymium and praseodymium. See Neodymium, and Praseodymium. 

DIDYMOUS:  Growing in pairs or twins. 

DIDYNAMIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having four stamens disposed in pairs of unequal length. 

DIDYNAMIAN:  Didynamous. 

DIDYNAMOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Didynamia; containing four stamens disposed in pairs of unequal length. 

DIE:  To disappear gradually in another surface, as where moldings are lost in a sloped or curved face.  8. To become vapid, flat, or spiritless, as liquor. To die in the last ditch, to fight till death; to die rather than surrender. "There is one certain way," replied the Prince [William of Orange] " by which I can be sure never to see my country's ruin, -- I will die in the last ditch." Hume (Hist. of Eng. ). -- To die out, to cease gradually; as, the prejudice has died out.  Syn.  -- To expire; decease; perish; depart; vanish. 

DIE:  That part of a pedestal included between base and cornice; the dado.  5. (Mach.) (a) A metal or plate (often one of a pair) so cut or shaped as to give a certain desired form to, or impress any desired device on, an object or surface, by pressure or by a blow; used in forging metals, coining, striking up sheet metal, etc. (b) A perforated block, commonly of hardened steel used in connection with a punch, for punching holes, as through plates, or blanks from plates, or for forming cups or capsules, as from sheet metal, by drawing. (c) A hollow internally threaded screw-cutting tool, made in one piece or composed of several parts, for forming screw threads on bolts, etc.; one of the separate parts which make up such a tool. Cutting die (Mech.), a thin, deep steel frame, sharpened to a cutting edge, for cutting out articles from leather, cloth, paper, etc.  -- The die is cast, the hazard must be run; the step is taken, and it is too late to draw back; the last chance is taken.  DIECIAN; DIECIOUS Di*e"cian, a., Di*e"cious, a. (Bot.)  See Dioecian, and Dioecious. 

DIEDRAL:  The same as Dihedral. 

DIEGESIS:  A narrative or history; a recital or relation. 

DIELECTRIC:  Any substance or medium that transmits the electric force by a process different from conduction, as in the phenomena of induction; a nonconductor. separating a body electrified by induction, from the electrifying body. 

DIELYTRA:  See Dicentra. 

DIENCEPHALON:  The interbrain or thalamencephalon; -- sometimes abbreviated to dien. See Thalamencephalon. 

DIERESIS:  Same as Diæresis.  DIESEL ENGINE; DIESEL MOTOR Die"sel en`gine or mo`tor. [After Dr. Rudolf Diesel, of Munich, the inventor.]  A type of internal-combustion engine in which the air drawn in by the suction stroke is so highly compressed that the heat generated ignites the fuel (usually crude oil), the fuel being automatically sprayed into the cylinder under pressure. The Diesel engine has a very high thermal efficiency. 

DIESINKER:  An engraver of dies for stamping coins, medals, etc. 

DIESINKING:  The process of engraving dies.  DIES IRAE Di"es I"ræ.  Day of wrath; -- the name and beginning of a famous mediæval Latin hymn on the Last Judgment. 

DIESIS:  A small interval, less than any in actual practice, but used in the mathematical calculation of intervals.  2. (Print.)  The mark ||; -- called also double dagger.  DIES JURIDICUS Di"es ju*rid"i*cus; pl. Dies juridici. Etym: [L.] (Law)  A court day.  DIES NON Di"es non". Etym: [L. dies non juridicus.] (Law)  A day on which courts are not held, as Sunday or any legal holiday. 

DIESTOCK:  A stock to hold the dies used for cutting screws. 

DIET:  A legislative or administrative assembly in Germany, Poland, and some other countries of Europe; a deliberative convention; a council; as, the Diet of Worms, held in 1521. 

DIETARIAN:  One who lives in accordance with prescribed rules for diet; a dieter. 

DIETARY:  Pertaining to diet, or to the rules of diet. 

DIETARY:  A rule of diet; a fixed allowance of food, as in workhouse, prison, etc. 

DIETER:  One who diets; one who prescribes, or who partakes of, food, according to hygienic rules.  DIETETIC; DIETETICAL Di`e*tet"ic, Di`e*tet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. diététique. See Diet.]  Of or performance to diet, or to the rules for regulating the kind and quantity of food to be eaten. 

DIETETICALLY:  In a dietetical manner. 

DIETETICS:  That part of the medical or hygienic art which relates to diet or food; rules for diet. To suppose that the whole of dietetics lies in determining whether or not bread is more nutritive than potatoes. H. Spencer. 

DIETETIST:  A physician who applies the rules of dietetics to the cure of diseases. Dunglison. 

DIETHYLAMINE:  A colorless, volatile, alkaline liquid, NH(C2H5)2, having a strong fishy odor resembling that of herring or sardines. Cf. Methylamine. 

DIETIC:  Dietetic. 

DIETICAL:  Dietetic. [R.] Ferrand. 

DIETINE:  A subordinate or local assembly; a diet of inferior rank.  DIETIST; DIETITIAN Di"et*ist, Di`e*ti"tian, n.  One skilled in dietetics. [R.] 

DIFFAME:  Evil name; bad reputation; defamation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DIFFARREATION:  A form of divorce, among the ancient Romans, in which a cake was used. See Confarreation. 

DIFFER:  To cause to be different or unlike; to set at variance. [R.] But something 'ts that differs thee and me. Cowley. 

DIFFERENCE:  An addition to a coat of arms to distinguish the bearings of two persons, which would otherwise be the same. See Augmentation, and Marks of cadency, under Cadency.  6. (Logic)  The quality or attribute which is added to those of the genus to constitute a species; a differentia.  7. (Math.)  The quantity by which one quantity differs from another, or the remainder left after subtracting the one from the other. Ascensional difference. See under Ascensional.  Syn.  -- Distinction; dissimilarity; dissimilitude; variation; diversity; variety; contrariety; disagreement; variance; contest; contention; dispute; controversy; debate; quarrel; wrangle; strife. 

DIFFERENCE:  To cause to differ; to make different; to mark as different; to distinguish. Thou mayest difference gods from men. Chapman. Kings, in receiving justice and undergoing trial, are not differenced from the meanest subject. Milton. So completely differenced by their separate and individual characters that we at once acknowledge them as distinct persons. Sir W. Scott. 

DIFFERENTIA:  The formal or distinguishing part of the essence of a species; the characteristic attribute of a species; specific difference. 

DIFFERENTIAL:  Of or pertaining to a differential, or to differentials.  3. (Mech.)  Relating to differences of motion or leverage; producing effects by such differences; said of mechanism. Differential calculus. (Math.) See under Calculus.  -- Differential coefficient, the limit of the ratio of the increment of a function of a variable to the increment of the variable itself, when these increments are made indefinitely small.  -- Differential coupling, a form of slip coupling used in light machinery to regulate at pleasure the velocity of the connected shaft.  -- Differential duties (Polit. Econ.), duties which are not imposed equally upon the same products imported from different countries.  -- Differential galvanometer (Elec.), a galvanometer having two coils or circuits, usually equal, through which currents passing in opposite directions are measured by the difference of their effect upon the needle.  -- Differential gearing, a train of toothed wheels, usually an epicyclic train, so arranged as to constitute a differential motion.  -- Differential motion, a mechanism in which a simple differential combination produces such a change of motion or force as would, with ordinary compound arrangements, require a considerable train of parts. It is used for overcoming great resistance or producing very slow or very rapid motion.  -- Differential pulley. (Mach.) (a) A portable hoisting apparatus, the same in principle as the differential windlass. (b) A hoisting pulley to which power is applied through a differential gearing.  -- Differential screw, a compound screw by which a motion is produced equal to the difference of the motions of the component screws.  -- Differential thermometer, a thermometer usually with a U-shaped tube terminating in two air bulbs, and containing a colored liquid, used for indicating the difference between the temperatures to which the two bulbs are exposed, by the change of position of the colored fluid, in consequence of the different expansions of the air in the bulbs. A graduated scale is attached to one leg of the tube.  -- Differential windlass, or Chinese windlass, a windlass whose barrel has two parts of different diameters. The hoisting rope winds upon one part as it unwinds from the other, and a pulley sustaining the weight to be lifted hangs in the bight of the rope. It is an ancient example of a differential motion. 

DIFFERENTIAL:  An increment, usually an indefinitely small one, which is given to a variable quantity.  Note: According to the more modern writers upon the differential and integral calculus, if two or more quantities are dependent on each other, and subject to increments of value, their differentials need not be small, but are any quantities whose ratios to each other are the limits to which the ratios of the increments approximate, as these increments are reduced nearer and nearer to zero.  2. A small difference in rates which competing railroad lines, in establishing a common tariff, allow one of their number to make, in order to get a fair share of the business. The lower rate is called a differential rate. Differentials are also sometimes granted to cities.  3. (Elec.) (a) One of two coils of conducting wire so related to one another or to a magnet or armature common to both, that one coil produces polar action contrary to that of the other. (b) A form of conductor used for dividing and distributing the current to a series of electric lamps so as to maintain equal action in all. Knight. Partial differential (Math.), the differential of a function of two or more variables, when only one of the variables receives an increment.  -- Total differential (Math.), the differential of a function of two or more variables, when each of the variables receives an increment. The total differential of the function is the sum of all the partial differentials. 

DIFFERENTIALLY:  In the way of differentiation. 

DIFFERENTIATE:  To obtain the differential, or differential coefficient, of; as, to differentiate an algebraic expression, or an equation. 

DIFFERENTIATE:  To acquire a distinct and separate character. Huxley. 

DIFFERENTIATION:  The act of distinguishing or describing a thing, by giving its different, or specific difference; exact definition or determination.  3. (Biol.)  The gradual formation or production of organs or parts by a process of evolution or development, as when the seed develops the root and the stem, the initial stem develops the leaf, branches, and flower buds; or in animal life, when the germ evolves the digestive and other organs and members, or when the animals as they advance in organization acquire special organs for specific purposes.  4. (Metaph.)  The supposed act or tendency in being of every kind, whether organic or inorganic, to assume or produce a more complex structure or functions. 

DIFFERENTIATOR:  One who, or that which, differentiates. 

DIFFERENTLY:  In a different manner; variously. 

DIFFERINGLY:  In a differing or different manner. Boyle. 

DIFFICILE:  Difficult; hard to manage; stubborn. [Obs.] -- Dif"fi*cile*ness, n. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DIFFICILITATE:  To make difficult. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

DIFFICULT:  To render difficult; to impede; to perplex. [R.] Sir W. Temple. 

DIFFICULTATE:  To render difficult; to difficilitate. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

DIFFICULTLY:  With difficulty. Cowper. 

DIFFICULTNESS:  Difficulty. [R.] Golding. 

DIFFIDE:  To be distrustful. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

DIFFIDENCY:  See Diffidence. [Obs.] 

DIFFIDENTLY:  In a diffident manner. To stand diffidently against each other with their thoughts in battle array. Hobbes. 

DIFFIND:  To split. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DIFFINE:  To define. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DIFFINITIVE:  Definitive; determinate; final. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

DIFFISSION:  Act of cleaving or splitting. [R.] Bailey. 

DIFFLATION:  A blowing apart or away. [Obs.] Bailey.  DIFFLUENCE; DIFFLUENCY Dif"flu*ence, Dif"flu*en*cy, n.  A flowing off on all sides; fluidity. [R.] 

DIFFLUENT:  Flowing apart or off; dissolving; not fixed. [R.] Bailey. 

DIFFORM:  Irregular in form; -- opposed to uniform; anomalous; hence, unlike; dissimilar; as, to difform corolla, the parts of which do not correspond in size or proportion; difform leaves. The unequal refractions of difform rays. Sir I. Newton. 

DIFFORMITY:  Irregularity of form; diversity of form; want of uniformity. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DIFFRACT:  To break or separate into parts; to deflect, or decompose by deflection, a 

DIFFRACTION:  The deflection and decomposition of light in passing by the edges of opaque bodies or through narrow slits, causing the appearance of parallel bands or fringes of prismatic colors, as by the action of a grating of fine lines or bars. Remarked by Grimaldi (1665), and referred by him to a property of light which he called diffraction. Whewell. Diffraction grating. (Optics) See under Grating.  -- Diffraction spectrum. (Optics) See under Spectrum. 

DIFFRACTIVE:  That produces diffraction.  DIFFRANCHISE; DIFFRANCHISEMENT Dif*fran"chise, Dif*fran"chise*ment.  See Disfranchise, Disfranchisement. 

DIFFUSATE:  Material which, in the process of catalysis, has diffused or passed through the separating membrane. 

DIFFUSE:  To pour out and cause to spread, as a fluid; to cause to flow on all sides; to send out, or extend, in all directions; to spread; to circulate; to disseminate; to scatter; as to diffuse information. Thence diffuse His good to worlds and ages infinite. Milton. We find this knowledge diffused among all civilized nations. Whewell.  Syn.  -- To expand; spread; circulate; extend; scatter; disperse; publish; proclaim. 

DIFFUSE:  To pass by spreading every way, to diffuse itself. 

DIFFUSE:  Poured out; widely spread; not restrained; copious; full; esp., of style, opposed to concise or terse; verbose; prolix; as, a diffuse style; a diffuse writer. A diffuse and various knowledge of divine and human things. Milton.  Syn.  -- Prolix; verbose; wide; copious; full. See Prolix. 

DIFFUSED:  Spread abroad; dispersed; loose; flowing; diffuse. It grew to be a widely diffused opinion. Hawthorne. -- Dif*fus"ed*ly, adv.  -- Dif*fus"ed*ness, n. 

DIFFUSELY:  In a diffuse manner. 

DIFFUSENESS:  The quality of being diffuse; especially, in writing, the use of a great or excessive number of word to express the meaning; copiousness; verbosity; prolixity. 

DIFFUSER:  One who, or that which, diffuses. 

DIFFUSIBILITY:  The quality of being diffusible; capability of being poured or spread out. 

DIFFUSIBLE:  Capable of passing through animal membranes by osmosis. 

DIFFUSIBLENESS:  Diffusibility. 

DIFFUSION:  The act of passing by osmosis through animal membranes, as in the distribution of poisons, gases, etc., through the body. Unlike absorption, diffusion may go on after death, that is, after the blood ceases to circulate.  Syn.  -- Extension; spread; propagation; circulation; expansion; dispersion. 

DIFFUSIVE:  Having the quality of diffusing; capable of spreading every way by flowing; spreading widely; widely reaching; copious; diffuse. "A plentiful and diffusive perfume." Hare. 

DIFFUSIVELY:  In a diffusive manner. 

DIFFUSIVENESS:  The quality or state of being diffusive or diffuse; extensiveness; expansion; dispersion. Especially of style: Diffuseness; want of conciseness; prolixity. The fault that I find with a modern legend, it its diffusiveness. Addison. 

DIFFUSIVITY:  Tendency to become diffused; tendency, as of heat, to become equalized by spreading through a conducting medium. 

DIG:  To take ore from its bed, in distinction from making excavations in search of ore.  3. To work like a digger; to study ploddingly and laboriously. [Cant, U.S.] 

DIGAMIST:  One who marries a second time; a deuterogamist. Hammond. 

DIGAMMA:  A letter (  Note: This form identifies it with the Latin F, though in sound it is said to have been nearer V. It was pronounced, probably, much like the English W.  DIGAMMATE; DIGAMMATED Di*gam"mate, Di*gam"mated, a.  Having the digamma or its representative letter or sound; as, the Latin word vis is a digammated form of the Greek . Andrews. 

DIGAMOUS:  Pertaining to a second marriage, that is, one after the death of the first wife or the first husband. 

DIGAMY:  Act, or state, of being twice married; deuterogamy. [R.] 

DIGENEA:  A division of Trematoda in which alternate generations occur, the immediate young not resembling their parents. 

DIGENESIS:  The faculty of multiplying in two ways; -- by ova fecundated by spermatic fluid, and asexually, as by buds. See Parthenogenesis. 

DIGENOUS:  Sexually reproductive. Digenous reproduction. (Biol.) Same as Digenesis. 

DIGERENT:  Digesting. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DIGEST:  To separate (the food) in its passage through the alimentary canal into the nutritive and nonnutritive elements; to prepare, by the action of the digestive juices, for conversion into blood; to convert into chyme.  3. To think over and arrange methodically in the mind; to reduce to a plan or method; to receive in the mind and consider carefully; to get an understanding of; to comprehend. Feelingly digest the words you speak in prayer. Sir H. Sidney. How shall this bosom multiplied digest The senate's courtesy Shak.  4. To appropriate for strengthening and comfort. Grant that we may in such wise hear them [the Scriptures], read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest them. Book of Common Prayer.  5. Hence: To bear comfortably or patiently; to be reconciled to; to brook. I never can digest the loss of most of Origin's works. Coleridge.  6. (Chem.)  To soften by heat and moisture; to expose to a gentle heat in a boiler or matrass, as a preparation for chemical operations.  7. (Med.)  To dispose to suppurate, or generate healthy pus, as an ulcer or wound.  8. To ripen; to mature. [Obs.] Well-digested fruits. Jer. Taylor.  9. To quiet or abate, as anger or grief. 

DIGEST:  To suppurate; to generate pus, as an ulcer. 

DIGEST:  That which is digested; especially, that which is worked over, classified, and arranged under proper heads or titles; esp. (Law),  a compilation of statutes or decisions analytically arranged. The term is applied in a general sense to the Pandects of Justinian (see Pandect), but is also specially given by authors to compilations of laws on particular topics; a summary of laws; as, Comyn's Digest; the United States Digest. A complete digest of Hindu and Mahommedan laws after the model of Justinian's celebrated Pandects. Sir W. Jones. They made a sort of institute and digest of anarchy, called the Rights of Man. Burke. 

DIGESTEDLY:  In a digested or well-arranged manner; methodically. 

DIGESTIBILITY:  The quality of being digestible. 

DIGESTIBLE:  Capable of being digested. 

DIGESTIBLENESS:  The quality of being digestible; digestibility. 

DIGESTION:  The conversion of food, in the stomach and intestines, into soluble and diffusible products, capable of being absorbed by the blood.  3. (Med.)  Generation of pus; suppuration. 

DIGESTIVE:  Pertaining to digestion; having the power to cause or promote digestion; as, the digestive ferments. Digestive cheese and fruit there sure will be. B. Jonson. Digestive apparatus, the organs of food digestion, esp. the alimentary canal and glands connected with it.  -- Digestive salt, the chloride of potassium. 

DIGESTOR:  See Digester. 

DIGESTURE:  Digestion. [Obs.] Harvey. 

DIGGABLE:  Capable of being dug. 

DIGGER:  One who, or that which, digs. Digger wasp (Zoöl.), any one of the fossorial Hymenoptera. 

DIGGERS:  A degraded tribe of California Indians; -- so called from their practice of digging roots for food. 

DIGGING:  Places where ore is dug; especially, certain localities in California, Australia, and elsewhere, at which gold is obtained. [Recent]  3. pl.  Region; locality. [Low] 

DIGHTER:  One who dights. [Obs.] 

DIGIT:  One of the terminal divisions of a limb appendage; a finger or toe. The ruminants have the "cloven foot," i. e., two hoofed digits on each foot. Owen.  2. A finger's breadth, commonly estimated to be three fourths of an inch.  3. (Math.)  One of the ten figures or symbols, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, by which all numbers are expressed; -- so called because of the use of the fingers in counting and computing.  Note: By some authorities the symbol 0 is not included with the digits.  4. (Anat.)  One twelfth part of the diameter of the sun or moon; -- a term used to express the quantity of an eclipse; as, an eclipse of eight digits is one which hides two thirds of the diameter of the disk. 

DIGIT:  To point at or out with the finger. [R.] 

DIGITAL:  Of or performance to the fingers, or to digits; done with the fingers; as, digital compression; digital examination. 

DIGITALIS:  A genus of plants including the foxglove.  2. (Med.)  The dried leaves of the purple foxglove (Digitalis purpurea), used in heart disease, disturbance of the circulation, etc. 

DIGITATE:  To point out as with the finger. [R.] Robinson (Eudoxa).  DIGITATE; DIGITATED Dig"i*tate, Dig"i*ta`ted, a. Etym: [L. digitatus having fingers.] (Bot.)  Having several leaflets arranged, like the fingers of the hand, at the extremity of a stem or petiole. Also, in general, characterized by digitation.  -- Dig"i*tate*ly, adv. 

DIGITATION:  A division into fingers or fingerlike processes; also, a fingerlike process. 

DIGITIFORM:  Formed like a finger or fingers; finger-shaped; as, a digitiform root. 

DIGITIGRADE:  Walking on the toes; -- distinguished from plantigrade. 

DIGITIGRADE:  An animal that walks on its toes, as the cat, lion, wolf, etc.; -- distinguished from a plantigrade, which walks on the palm of the foot. 

DIGITIPARTITE:  Parted like the fingers. 

DIGITIZE:  To finger; as, to digitize a pen. [R.] Sir T. Browne. computers to convert (information, a signal, an image) into a form expressible in binary notation 

DIGITORIUM:  A small dumb keyboard used by pianists for exercising the fingers; -- called also dumb piano. 

DIGITULE:  A little finger or toe, or something resembling one. 

DIGLADIATE:  To fight like gladiators; to contend fiercely; to dispute violently. [Obs.] Digladiating like Æschines and Demosthenes. Hales. 

DIGLADIATION:  Act of digladiating. [Obs.] "Sore digladiations and contest." Evelyn. 

DIGLOTTISM:  Bilingualism. [R.] Earle. 

DIGLYPH:  A projecting face like the triglyph, but having only two channels or grooves sunk in it. 

DIGNATION:  The act of thinking worthy; honor. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

DIGNIFICATION:  The act of dignifying; exaltation. 

DIGNIFIED:  Marked with dignity; stately; as, a dignified judge. 

DIGNIFY:  To invest with dignity or honor; to make illustrious; to give distinction to; to exalt in rank; to honor. Your worth will dignity our feast. B. Jonson.  Syn.  -- To exalt; elevate; prefer; advance; honor; illustrate; adorn; ennoble. 

DIGNITARY:  One who possesses exalted rank or holds a position of dignity or honor; especially, one who holds an ecclesiastical rank above that of a parochial priest or clergyman. 

DIGNOTION:  Distinguishing mark; diagnostic. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DIGONOUS:  Having two angles. Smart. 

DIGRAM:  A digraph. 

DIGRAPH:  Two signs or characters combined to express a single articulated sound; as ea in head, or th in bath. 

DIGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to a digraph. H. Sweet. 

DIGRESS:  Digression. [Obs.] Fuller. 

DIGRESSION:  The elongation, or angular distance from the sun; -- said chiefly of the inferior planets. [R.] 

DIGRESSIONAL:  Pertaining to, or having the character of, a digression; departing from the main purpose or subject. T. Warton. 

DIGRESSIVE:  Departing from the main subject; partaking of the nature of digression. Johnson. 

DIGRESSIVELY:  By way of digression. 

DIGUE:  A bank; a dike. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple. 

DIGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants having two styles.  DIGYNIAN; DIGYNOUS Di*gyn"i*an, Dig"y*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. digyne.] (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the Digynia; having two styles. 

DIHEDRAL:  Having two plane faces; as, the dihedral summit of a crystal. Dihedral angle, the angular space contained between planes which intersect. It is measured by the angle made by any two lines at right angles to the two planes. 

DIHEDRON:  A figure with two sides or surfaces. Buchanan. 

DIIAMB:  A diiambus. 

DIIAMBUS:  A double iambus; a foot consisting of two iambuses ( 

DIIODIDE:  A compound of a binary type containing two atoms of iodine; -- called also biniodide. 

DIISATOGEN:  A red crystalline nitrogenous substance or artificial production, which by reduction passes directly to indigo. 

DIJUDICANT:  One who dijudicates. [R.] Wood. 

DIJUDICATE:  To make a judicial decision; to decide; to determine. [R.] Hales. 

DIJUDICATION:  The act of dijudicating; judgment. [R.] Cockeram. 

DIKA:  A kind of food, made from the almondlike seeds of the Irvingia Barteri, much used by natives of the west coast of Africa; -- called also dika bread. 

DIKE:  A wall-like mass of mineral matter, usually an intrusion of igneous rocks, filling up rents or fissures in the original strata. 

DIKE:  To work as a ditcher; to dig. [Obs.] He would thresh and thereto dike and delve. Chaucer. 

DILACERATE:  To rend asunder; to tear to pieces. Sir T. Browne. 

DILACERATION:  The act of rending asunder. Arbuthnot. 

DILANIATE:  To rend in pieces; to tear. [R.] Howell. 

DILANIATION:  A rending or tearing in pieces; dilaceration. [R.] 

DILAPIDATE:  To get out of repair; to fall into partial ruin; to become decayed; as, the church was suffered to dilapidate. Johnson. 

DILAPIDATED:  Decayed; fallen into partial ruin; injured by bad usage or neglect. A deserted and dilapidated buildings. Cooper. 

DILAPIDATION:  The pulling down of a building, or suffering it to fall or be in a state of decay. Burrill. 

DILAPIDATOR:  One who causes dilapidation. Strype. 

DILATABILITY:  The quality of being dilatable, or admitting expansion; -- opposed to contractibility. Ray. 

DILATABLE:  Capable of expansion; that may be dilated; -- opposed to contractible; as, the lungs are dilatable by the force of air; air is dilatable by heat. 

DILATATION:  A dilation or enlargement of a canal or other organ. 

DILATATOR:  A muscle which dilates any part; a dilator. 

DILATE:  Extensive; expanded. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

DILATED:  Widening into a lamina or into lateral winglike appendages.  3. (Zoöl.)  Having the margin wide and spreading. 

DILATEDLY:  In a dilated manner. Feltham. 

DILATER:  One who, or that which, dilates, expands, o r enlarges. 

DILATION:  Delay. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DILATION:  The act of dilating, or the state of being dilated; expansion; dilatation. Mrs. Browning. At first her eye with slow dilation rolled. Tennyson. A gigantic dilation of the hateful figure. Dickens. 

DILATIVE:  Causing dilation; tending to dilate, on enlarge; expansive. Coleridge. 

DILATOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the dilatation or expansion of a substance, especially of a fluid. 

DILATOR:  A muscle that dilates any part.  3. (Med.)  An instrument for expanding a part; as, a urethral dilator. 

DILATORILY:  With delay; tardily. 

DILATORINESS:  The quality of being dilatory; lateness; slowness; tardiness; sluggishness. 

DILDO:  A burden in popular songs. [Obs.] Delicate burthens of dildos and fadings. Shak. 

DILDO:  A columnar cactaceous plant of the West Indies (Cereus Swartzii). 

DILECTION:  Love; choice. [Obs.] T. Martin. 

DILEMMA:  An argument which presents an antagonist with two or more alternatives, but is equally conclusive against him, whichever alternative he chooses.  Note: The following are instances of the dilemma. A young rhetorician applied to an old sophist to be taught the art of pleading, and bargained for a certain reward to be paid when he should gain a cause. The master sued for his reward, and the scholar endeavored to dilemma. "If I gain my cause, I shall withhold your pay, because the judge's award will be against you; if I lose it, I may withhold it, because I shall not yet have gained a cause." "On the contrary," says the master, "if you gain your cause, you must pay me, because you are to pay me when you gain a cause; if you lose it, you must pay me, because the judge will award it." Johnson.  2. A state of things in which evils or obstacles present themselves on every side, and it is difficult to determine what course to pursue; a vexatious alternative or predicament; a difficult choice or position. A strong dilemma in a desperate case! To act with infamy, or quit the place. Swift. Horns of a dilemma, alternatives, each of which is equally difficult of encountering. 

DILETTANT:  Of or pertaining to dilettanteism; amateur; as, dilettant speculation. Carlyle. 

DILETTANT:  A dilettante. Though few art lovers can be connoisseurs, many are dilettants. Fairholt. 

DILETTANTE:  An admirer or lover of the fine arts; popularly, an amateur; especially, one who follows an art or a branch of knowledge, desultorily, or for amusement only.  The true poet is not an eccentric creature, not a mere artist living only for art, not a dreamer or a dilettante, sipping the nectar of existence, while he keeps aloof from its deeper interests. J. C. Shairp. 

DILETTANTEISH:  Somewhat like a dilettante. 

DILETTANTEISM:  The state or quality of being a dilettante; the desultory pursuit of art, science, or literature. 

DILETTANTISH:  Dilettanteish. 

DILETTANTISM:  Same as Dilettanteism. F. Harrison. 

DILIGENCE:  Process by which persons, lands, or effects are seized for debt; process for enforcing the attendance of witnesses or the production of writings. To do one's diligence, give diligence, use diligence, to exert one's self; to make interested and earnest endeavor. And each of them doth all his diligence To do unto the festé reverence. Chaucer.  Syn.  -- Attention; industry; assiduity; sedulousness; earnestness; constancy; heed; heedfulness; care; caution.  -- Diligence, Industry. Industry has the wider sense of the two, implying an habitual devotion to labor for some valuable end, as knowledge, property, etc. Diligence denotes earnest application to some specific object or pursuit, which more or less directly has a strong hold on one's interests or feelings. A man may be diligent for a time, or in seeking some favorite end, without meriting the title of industrious. Such was the case with Fox, while Burke was eminent not only for diligence, but industry; he was always at work, and always looking out for some new field of mental effort. The sweat of industry would dry and die, But for the end it works to. Shak. Diligence and accuracy are the only merits which an historical writer ascribe to himself. Gibbon. 

DILIGENCE:  A four-wheeled public stagecoach, used in France. 

DILIGENCY:  Diligence; care; persevering endeavor. [Obs.] Milton. 

DILIGENTLY:  In a diligent manner; not carelessly; not negligently; with industry or assiduity. Ye diligently keep commandments of the Lord your God. Deut. vi. 17. 

DILL:  An herb (Peucedanum graveolens), the seeds of which are moderately warming, pungent, and aromatic, and were formerly used as a soothing medicine for children; -- called also dill-seed. Dr. Prior. 

DILL:  To still; to calm; to soothe, as one in pain. [Obs.] 

DILLING:  A darling; a favorite. [Obs.] Whilst the birds billing, Each one with his dilling. Drayton. 

DILLUING:  A process of sorting ore by washing in a hand sieve. [Written also deluing.] 

DILLY:  A kind of stagecoach. "The Derby dilly." J. H. Frere.  DILLY-DALLY Dil"ly-dal`ly, v. i. Etym: [See Dally.]  To loiter or trifle; to waste time. 

DILOGICAL:  Ambiguous; of double meaning. [Obs.] T. Adams. 

DILOGY:  An ambiguous speech; a figure in which a word is used an equivocal sense. [R.] 

DILUCID:  Clear; lucid. [Obs.] Bacon.  -- Di*lu"cid*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Di`lu*cid"i*ty, n. [Obs.] 

DILUCIDATE:  To elucidate. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DILUCIDATION:  The act of making clear. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DILUENT:  Diluting; making thinner or weaker by admixture, esp. of water. Arbuthnot. 

DILUENT:  An agent used for effecting dilution of the blood; a weak drink. There is no real diluent but water. Arbuthnot. 

DILUTE:  To become attenuated, thin, or weak; as, it dilutes easily. 

DILUTE:  Diluted; thin; weak. A dilute and waterish exposition. Hopkins. 

DILUTED:  Reduced in strength; thin; weak.  -- Di*lut"ed*ly, adv. 

DILUTENESS:  The quality or state of being dilute. Bp. Wilkins. 

DILUTER:  One who, or that which, dilutes or makes thin, more liquid, or weaker. 

DILUTION:  The act of diluting, or the state of being diluted. Arbuthnot. 

DILUVIAL:  Effected or produced by a flood or deluge of water; -- said of coarse and imperfectly stratified deposits along ancient or existing water courses. Similar unstratified deposits were formed by the agency of ice. The time of deposition has been called the Diluvian epoch. 

DILUVIALIST:  One who explains geological phenomena by the Noachian deluge. Lyell. 

DILUVIAN:  Of or pertaining to a deluge, esp. to the Noachian deluge; diluvial; as, of diluvian origin. Buckland. 

DILUVIATE:  To run as a flood. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 

DILUVIUM:  A deposit of superficial loam, sand, gravel, stones, etc., caused by former action of flowing waters, or the melting of glacial ice.  Note: The accumulation of matter by the ordinary operation of water is termed alluvium. 

DIM:  To grow dim. J. C. Shairp. 

DIMBLE:  A bower; a dingle. [Obs.] Drayton. 

DIME:  A silver coin of the United States, of the value of ten cents; the tenth of a dollar. Dime novel, a novel, commonly sensational and trashy, which is sold for a dime, or ten cents. 

DIMENSION:  The degree of manifoldness of a quantity; as, time is quantity having one dimension; volume has three dimensions, relative to extension.  4. (Alg.)  A literal factor, as numbered in characterizing a term. The term dimensions forms with the cardinal numbers a phrase equivalent to degree with the ordinal; thus, a2b2c is a term of five dimensions, or of the fifth degree.  5. pl. (Phys.)  The manifoldness with which the fundamental units of time, length, and mass are involved in determining the units of other physical quantities. Thus, since the unit of velocity varies directly as the unit of length and inversely as the unit of time, the dimensions of velocity are said to be length ÷ time; the dimensions of work are mass × (length)2 ÷ (time)2; the dimensions of density are mass ÷ (length)3. Dimension lumber, Dimension scantling, or Dimension stock (Carp.), lumber for building, etc., cut to the sizes usually in demand, or to special sizes as ordered.  -- Dimension stone, stone delivered from the quarry rough, but brought to such sizes as are requisite for cutting to dimensions given. 

DIMENSIONAL:  Pertaining to dimension. 

DIMENSIONED:  Having dimensions. [R.] 

DIMENSIONLESS:  Without dimensions; having no appreciable or noteworthy extent. Milton. 

DIMENSITY:  Dimension. [R.] Howell. 

DIMENSIVE:  Without dimensions; marking dimensions or the limits. Who can draw the soul's dimensive lines Sir J. Davies. 

DIMERAN:  One of the Dimera. 

DIMEROUS:  Composed of, or having, two parts of each kind.  Note: A dimerous flower has two sepals, two petals, two stamens, and two pistils. 

DIMETER:  Having two poetical measures or meters.  -- n.  A verse of two meters. 

DIMETHYL:  Ethane; -- sometimes so called because regarded as consisting of two methyl radicals. See Ethane. 

DIMETRIC:  Same as Tetragonal. Dana. 

DIMICATION:  A fight; contest. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DIMIDIATE:  To represent the half of; to halve. 

DIMIDIATION:  The act of dimidiating or halving; the state of being dimidiate. 

DIMINISH:  To make smaller by a half step; to make (an interval) less than minor; as, a diminished seventh.  4. To take away; to subtract. Neither shall ye diminish aught from it. Deut. iv. 2. Diminished column, one whose upper diameter is less than the lower.  -- Diminished, or Diminishing, scale, a scale of gradation used in finding the different points for drawing the spiral curve of the volute. Gwilt.  -- Diminishing rule (Arch.), a board cut with a concave edge, for fixing the entasis and curvature of a shaft.  -- Diminishing stile (Arch.), a stile which is narrower in one part than in another, as in many glazed doors.  Syn.  -- To decrease; lessen; abate; reduce; contract; curtail; impair; degrade. See Decrease. 

DIMINISH:  To become or appear less or smaller; to lessen; as, the apparent size of an object diminishes as we recede from it. 

DIMINISHABLE:  Capable of being diminished or lessened. 

DIMINISHER:  One who, or that which, diminishes anything. Clerke (1637). 

DIMINISHINGLY:  In a manner to diminish. 

DIMINISHMENT:  Diminution. [R.] Cheke. 

DIMINUENDO:  In a gradually diminishing manner; with abatement of tone; decrescendo; -- expressed on the staff by Dim., or Dimin., or the sign. 

DIMINUENT:  Lessening. Bp. Sanderson. 

DIMINUTAL:  Indicating or causing diminution. Earle. 

DIMINUTE:  Small; diminished; diminutive. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

DIMINUTELY:  Diminutively. [Obs.] 

DIMINUTION:  Omission, inaccuracy, or defect in a record.  4. (Mus.)  In counterpoint, the imitation of, or reply to, a subject, in notes of half the length or value of those the subject itself.  Syn.  -- Decrease; decay; abatement; reduction; deduction; decrement. 

DIMINUTIVAL:  Indicating diminution; diminutive. "Diminutival forms" [of words]. Earle.  -- n.  A diminutive. Earle. 

DIMINUTIVE:  A derivative from a noun, denoting a small or a young object of the same kind with that denoted by the primitive; as, gosling, eaglet, lambkin. Babyisms and dear diminutives. Tennyson.  Note: The word sometimes denotes a derivative verb which expresses a diminutive or petty form of the action, as scribble. 

DIMINUTIVELY:  In a diminutive manner. 

DIMINUTIVENESS:  The quality of being diminutive; smallness; littleness; minuteness. 

DIMISH:  See Dimmish. 

DIMISSION:  Leave to depart; a dismissing. [Obs.] Barrow. 

DIMISSORY:  Sending away; dismissing to another jurisdiction; granting leave to depart. Letters dimissory (Eccl.), letters given by a bishop dismissing a person who is removing into another diocese, and recommending him for reception there. Hook. 

DIMIT:  To dismiss, let go, or release. [Obs.] 

DIMITY:  A cotton fabric employed for hangings and furniture coverings, and formerly used for women's under-garments. It is of many patterns, both plain and twilled, and occasionally is printed in colors. 

DIMLY:  In a dim or obscure manner; not brightly or clearly; with imperfect sight.  DIMMISH; DIMMY Dim"mish, Dim"my, a.  Somewhat dim; as, dimmish eyes. "Dimmy clouds." Sir P. Sidney. 

DIMORPH:  Either one of the two forms of a dimorphous substance; as, calcite and aragonite are dimorphs. 

DIMORPHIC:  Having the property of dimorphism; dimorphous. 

DIMORPHISM:  Difference of form between members of the same species, as when a plant has two kinds of flowers, both hermaphrodite (as in the partridge berry), or when there are two forms of one or both sexes of the same species of butterfly. Dimorphism is the condition of the appearance of the same species under two dissimilar forms. Darwin.  2. (Crystallog.)  Crystallization in two independent forms of the same chemical compound, as of calcium carbonate as calcite and aragonite. 

DIMORPHOUS:  Characterized by dimorphism; occurring under two distinct forms, not dependent on sex; dimorphic.  2. (Crystallog.)  Crystallizing under two forms fundamentally different, while having the same chemical composition. 

DIMPLE:  To form dimples; to sink into depressions or little inequalities. And smiling eddies dimpled on the main. Dryden. 

DIMPLE:  To mark with dimples or dimplelike depressions. Shak. 

DIMPLEMENT:  The state of being dimpled, or marked with gentle depressions. [R.] The ground's most gentle dimplement. Mrs. Browning. 

DIMPLY:  Full of dimples, or small depressions; dimpled; as, the dimply pool. Thomson.  DIM-SIGHTED Dim"-sight`ed, a.  Having dim sight; lacking perception.  -- Dim"-sight`ed*ness, n.  DIMYA; DIMYARIA Dim"y*a, Dim`y*a"ri*a (, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  An order of lamellibranchiate mollusks having an anterior and posterior adductor muscle, as the common clam. See Bivalve. 

DIMYARIAN:  Like or pertaining to the Dimya.  -- n.  One of the Dimya. 

DIMYARY:  Same as Dimyarian. 

DIN:  Loud, confused, harsh noise; a loud, continuous, rattling or clanging sound; clamor; roar. Think you a little din can daunt mine ears Shak. He knew the battle's din afar. Sir W. Scott. The dust and din and steam of town. Tennyson. 

DIN:  To sound with a din; a ding. The gay viol dinning in the dale. A. Seward. 

DINAPHTHYL:  A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C20H14, obtained from naphthylene, and consisting of a doubled naphthylene radical. 

DINARCHY:  See Diarchy. 

DINE:  To eat the principal regular meal of the day; to take dinner. Now can I break my fast, dine, sup, and sleep. Shak. To dine with Duke Humphrey, to go without dinner; -- a phrase common in Elizabethan literature, said to be from the practice of the poor gentry, who beguiled the dinner hour by a promenade near the tomb of Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, in Old Saint Paul's. 

DINER:  One who dines.  DINER-OUT Din"er-out`, n.  One who often takes his dinner away from home, or in company. A brilliant diner-out, though but a curate. Byron. 

DINETICAL:  Revolving on an axis. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DING:  A thump or stroke, especially of a bell. 

DINGDONG:  An attachment to a clock by which the quarter hours are struck upon bells of different tones.  DINGDONG THEORY Ding"dong` the"o*ry. (Philol.)  The theory which maintains that the primitive elements of language are reflex expressions induced by sensory impressions; that is, as stated by Max Müller, the creative faculty gave to each general conception as it thrilled for the first time through the brain a phonetic expression; -- jocosely so called from the analogy of the sound of a bell induced by the stroke of the clapper.  DINGEY; DINGY; DINGHY Din"gey, Din"gy, Din"ghy, n. Etym: [Bengalee dingi.]  1. A kind of boat used in the East Indies. [Written also dinghey.] Malcom.  2. A ship's smallest boat. 

DINGILY:  In a dingy manner. 

DINGINESS:  Quality of being dingy; a dusky hue. 

DINGLE:  A narrow dale; a small dell; a small, secluded, and embowered valley.  DINGLE-DANGLE Din"gle-dan`gle, adv.  In a dangling manner. 

DINGO:  A wild dog found in Australia, but supposed to have introduced at a very early period. It has a wolflike face, bushy tail, and a reddish brown color. 

DINGTHRIFT:  A spendthrift. [Obs.] Wilt thou, therefore, a drunkard be, A dingthrift and a knave Drant. 

DINGY:  Soiled; sullied; of a dark or dusky color; dark brown; dirty. "Scraps of dingy paper." Macaulay. 

DINICHTHYS:  A genus of large extinct Devonian ganoid fishes. In some parts of Ohio remains of the Dinichthys are abundant, indicating animals twenty feet in length. 

DINING:  from Dine, a.  Note: Used either adjectively or as the first part of a compound; as, dining hall or dining-hall, dining room, dining table, etc. 

DINK:  Trim; neat. [Scot.] Burns.  -- Dink"ly, adv. 

DINK:  To deck; -- often with out or up. [Scot.] 

DINMONT:  A wether sheep between one and two years old. [Scot.] 

DINNERLESS:  Having no dinner. Fuller. 

DINNERLY:  Of or pertaining to dinner. [R.] The dinnerly officer. Copley. 

DINOCERAS:  A genus of large extinct Eocene mammals from Wyoming; -- called also Uintatherium. See Illustration in Appendix.  Note: They were herbivorous, and remarkable for three pairs of hornlike protuberances on the skull. The males were armed with a pair of powerful canine tusks. 

DINORNIS:  A genus of extinct, ostrichlike birds of gigantic size, which formerly inhabited New Zealand. See Moa. [Written also Deinornis.]  DINOSAUR; DINOSAURIAN Di"no*saur, Di`no*sau"ri*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)  One of the Dinosauria. [Written also deinosaur, and deinosaurian.] 

DINOSAURIA:  An order of extinct mesozoic reptiles, mostly of large size (whence the name). Notwithstanding their size, they present birdlike characters in the skeleton, esp. in the pelvis and hind limbs. Some walked on their three-toed hind feet, thus producing the large "bird tracks," so-called, of mesozoic sandstones; others were five-toed and quadrupedal. See Illust. of Compsognathus, also Illustration of Dinosaur in Appendix.  DINOTHERE; DINOTHERIUM Di"no*there, Di`no*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. dinotherium, fr. Gr. (Paleon.)  A large extinct proboscidean mammal from the miocene beds of Europe and Asia. It is remarkable fora pair of tusks directed downward from the decurved apex of the lower jaw. 

DINOXIDE:  Same as Dioxide. 

DINSOME:  Full of din. [Scot.] Burns. 

DINT:  To make a mark or cavity on or in, by a blow or by pressure; to dent. Donne. Tennyson. 

DINUMERATION:  Enumeration. [Obs.] Bullokar. 

DIOCESAN:  Of or pertaining to a diocese; as, diocesan missions. 

DIOCESAN:  The clergy or the people of a diocese. Strype. 

DIOCESE:  The circuit or extent of a bishop's jurisdiction; the district in which a bishop exercises his ecclesiastical authority. [Frequently, but improperly, spelt diocess.] 

DIOCESENER:  One who belongs to a diocese. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DIODON:  A genus of spinose, plectognath fishes, having the teeth of each jaw united into a single beaklike plate. They are able to inflate the body by taking in air or water, and, hence, are called globefishes, swellfishes, etc. fishes, and sea hedgehogs.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of whales. 

DIODONT:  Like or pertaining to the genus Diodon.  -- n.  A fish of the genus Diodon, or an allied genus. 

DIOECIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having the stamens and pistils on different plants.  2. (Zoöl.)  A subclass of gastropod mollusks in which the sexes are separate. It includes most of the large marine species, like the conchs, cones, and cowries.  DIOECIAN; DIOECIOUS Di*oe"cian, Di*oe"cious, a. (Biol.)  Having the sexes in applied to plants in which the female flowers occur on one individual and the male flowers on another of the same species, and to animals in which the ovum is produced by one individual and the sperm cell by another; -- opposed to monoecious. 

DIOECIOUSLY:  In a dioecious manner. Dioeciously hermaphrodite (Bot.), having flowers structurally perfect, but practically dioecious, -- those on one plant producing no pollen, and those on another no ovules. 

DIOECIOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being dioecious. 

DIOECISM:  The condition of being dioecious. 

DIOGENES:  A Greek Cynic philosopher (412-323 B. C.) who lived much in Athens and was distinguished for contempt of the common aims and conditions of life, and for sharp, caustic sayings. Diogenes' crab (Zoöl.), a species of terrestrial hermit crabs (Cenobita Diogenes), abundant in the West Indies and often destructive to crops.  -- Diogenes' tub, the tub which the philosopher Diogenes is said to have carried about with him as his house, in which he lived. 

DIOICOUS:  See Dioecious. 

DIOMEDEA:  A genus of large sea birds, including the albatross. See Albatross. 

DIONAEA:  An insectivorous plant. See Venus's flytrap. 

DIONYSIA:  Any of the festivals held in honor of the Olympian god Dionysus. They correspond to the Roman Bacchanalia; the greater Dionysia were held at Athens in March or April, and were celebrated with elaborate performances of both tragedies and comedies. 

DIONYSIAC:  Of or pertaining to Dionysus or to the Dionysia; Bacchic; as, a Dionysiac festival; the Dionysiac theater at Athens. 

DIONYSIAN:  Relating to Dionysius, a monk of the 6th century; as, the Dionysian, or Christian, era. Dionysian period, a period of 532 years, depending on the cycle of the sun, or 28 years, and the cycle of the moon, or 19 years; -- sometimes called the Greek paschal cycle, or Victorian period. 

DIOPHANTINE:  Originated or taught by Diophantus, the Greek writer on algebra. Diophantine analysis (Alg.), that branch of indeterminate analysis which has for its object the discovery of rational values that satisfy given equations containing squares or cubes; as, for example, to find values of x and y which make x2 + y2 an exact square. 

DIOPSIDE:  A crystallized variety of pyroxene, of a clear, grayish green color; mussite. 

DIOPTASE:  A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring in emerald-green crystals.  DIOPTER; DIOPTRA Di*op"ter, Di*op"tra, n. Etym: [L. dioptra, fr. Gr. Dioptric.]  An optical instrument, invented by Hipparchus, for taking altitudes, leveling, etc. 

DIOPTRE:  A unit employed by oculists in numbering glasses according to the metric system; a refractive power equal to that of a glass whose principal focal distance is one meter. 

DIOPTRIC:  Of or pertaining to the dioptre, or to the metric system of numbering glasses.  -- n.  A dioptre. See Dioptre.  DIOPTRIC; DIOPTRICAL Di*op"tric, Di*op"tric*al, a. Etym: [Gr. dioptrique.]  Of or pertaining to dioptrics; assisting vision by means of the refraction of light; refractive; as, the dioptric system; a dioptric glass or telescope. "Dioptrical principles." Nichol. Dioptric curve (Geom.), a Cartesian oval. See under Cartesian. 

DIOPTRICS:  The science of the refraction of light; that part of geometrical optics which treats of the laws of the refraction of light in passing from one medium into another, or through different mediums, as air, water, or glass, and esp. through different lenses; -- distinguished from catoptrics, which refers to reflected light. 

DIOPTRY:  A dioptre. 

DIORAMIC:  Pertaining to a diorama. 

DIORISM:  Definition; logical direction. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

DIORISTIC:  Distinguishing; distinctive; defining. [R.] -- Di`o*ris"tic*al*ly, adv. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

DIORITE:  An igneous, crystalline in structure, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and hornblende. It includes part of what was called greenstone. 

DIORITIC:  Containing diorite. 

DIORTHOTIC:  Relating to the correcting or straightening out of something; corrective. 

DIOSCOREA:  A genus of plants. See Yam. 

DIOTA:  A vase or drinking cup having two handles or ears. 

DIOXINDOL:  A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance obtained by the reduction of isatin. It is a member of the indol series; -- hence its name. 

DIPASCHAL:  Including two passovers. Carpenter. 

DIPCHICK:  See Dabchick. 

DIPETALOUS:  Having two petals; two-petaled. 

DIPHENYL:  A white crystalline substance, C6H5.C6H5, obtained by leading benzene through a heated iron tube. It consists of two benzene or phenyl radicals united. 

DIPHTHERIA:  A very dangerous contagious disease in which the air passages, and especially the throat, become coated with a false membrane, produced by the solidification of an inflammatory exudation. Cf. Group.  DIPHTHERIAL; DIPHTHERIC Diph*the"ri*al, Diph*ther"ic, a.  Relating to diphtheria; diphtheritic. 

DIPHTHONG:  To form or pronounce as a diphthong; diphthongize. [R.] 

DIPHTHONGAL:  Relating or belonging to a diphthong; having the nature of a diphthong.  -- Diph*thon"gal*ly, adv. 

DIPHTHONGALIZE:  To make into a diphthong; to pronounce as a diphthong. 

DIPHTHONGATION:  See Diphthongization. 

DIPHTHONGIC:  Of the nature of diphthong; diphthongal. H. Sweet. 

DIPHTHONGIZATION:  The act of changing into a diphthong. H. Sweet. 

DIPHTHONGIZE:  To change into a diphthong, as by affixing another vowel to a simple vowel. "The diphthongized long vowels." H. Sweet. 

DIPHYCERCAL:  Having the tail fin divided into two equal parts by the notochord, or end of the vertebral column; protocercal. See Protocercal. 

DIPHYGENIC:  Having two modes of embryonic development. 

DIPHYLLOUS:  Having two leaves, as a calyx, etc. 

DIPHYODONT:  Having two successive sets of teeth (deciduous and permanent), one succeeding the other; as, a diphyodont mammal; diphyodont dentition; -- opposed to monophyodont.  -- n.  An animal having two successive sets of teeth. 

DIPHYOZOOID:  One of the free-swimming sexual zooids of Siphonophora. 

DIPLANAR:  Of or pertaining to two planes. 

DIPLEIDOSCOPE:  An instrument for determining the time of apparent noon. It consists of two mirrors and a plane glass disposed in the form of a prism, so that, by the reflections of the sun's rays from their surfaces, two images are presented to the eye, moving in opposite directions, and coinciding at the instant the sun's center is on the meridian. 

DIPLEX:  Pertaining to the sending of two messages in the same direction at the same time. Diplex and contraplex are the two varieties of duplex. 

DIPLOBLASTIC:  Characterizing the ovum when it has two primary germinal layers. 

DIPLOCARDIAC:  Having the heart completely divided or double, one side systemic, the other pulmonary. 

DIPLOCOCCUS:  A form of micrococcus in which cocci are united in a binary manner. See Micrococcus. 

DIPLOE:  The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the plates of the skull. 

DIPLOETIC:  Diploic. 

DIPLOGENIC:  Partaking of the nature of two bodies; producing two substances. Wright. 

DIPLOGRAPH:  An instrument used for double writing, as one for producing embossed writing for the blind and ordinary writing at the same time. -- Dip`lo*graph"ic*al (#), a. -- Dip*log"ra*phy (#), n. 

DIPLOIC:  Of or pertaining to the diploë. 

DIPLOID:  A solid bounded by twenty-four similar quadrilateral faces. It is a hemihedral form of the hexoctahedron. 

DIPLOMA:  A letter or writing, usually under seal, conferring some privilege, honor, or power; a document bearing record of a degree conferred by a literary society or educational institution. 

DIPLOMACY:  A diplomatist. 

DIPLOMATE:  To invest with a title o [R.] Wood. 

DIPLOMATIAL:  Diplomatic. [R.]  DIPLOMATIC; DIPLOMATICAL Dip`lo*mat"ic, Dip`lo*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. diplomatique.]  1. Pertaining to diplomacy; relating to the foreign ministers at a court, who are called the diplomatic body.  2. Characterized by tact and shrewdness; dexterous; artful; as, diplomatic management.  3. Pertaining to diplomatics; paleographic. Astle. 

DIPLOMATIC:  A minister, official agent, or envoy to a foreign court; a diplomatist. 

DIPLOMATICALLY:  According to the rules of diplomacy; in the manner of a diplomatist; artfully. 

DIPLOMATICS:  The science of diplomas, or the art of deciphering ancient writings, and determining their age, authenticity, etc.; paleography. 

DIPLOMATISM:  Diplomacy. [R.] 

DIPLOMATIST:  A person employed in, or skilled in, diplomacy; a diplomat. In ability, Avaux had no superior among the numerous able diplomatics whom his country then possessed. Macaulay.  DIPLOPIA; DIPLOPY Di*plo"pi*a, Dip"lo*py, n. Etym: [NL. diplopia, from Gr. diplopie.] (Med.)  The act or state of seeing double.  Note: In crossed or heteronymous diplopia the image seen by the right eye is upon the left hand, and that seen by the left eye is upon the right hand. In homonymous diplopia the image seen by the right eye is on the right side, that by the left eye on the left side. In vertical diplopia one image stands above the other. 

DIPLOPOD:  One of the Diplopoda. 

DIPLOPODA:  An order of myriapods having two pairs of legs on each segment; the Chilognatha. 

DIPLOSTEMONOUS:  Having twice as many stamens as petals, as the geranium. R. Brown. 

DIPLOSTEMONY:  The condition of being diplostemonous. 

DIPNEUMONA:  A group of spiders having only two lunglike organs. [Written also Dipneumones.] 

DIPNOI:  A group of ganoid fishes, including the living genera Ceratodus and Lepidosiren, which present the closest approximation to the Amphibia. The air bladder acts as a lung, and the nostrils open inside the mouth. See Ceratodus, and Illustration in Appendix. 

DIPODY:  Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure. Hadley. Trochaic, iambic, and anapestic verses . . . are measured by dipodies. W. W. Goodwin. 

DIPOLAR:  Having two poles, as a magnetic bar.  DIPPEL'S OIL Dip"pel's oil`. (Chem.) Etym: [From the name of the inventor.]  See Bone oil, under Bone. 

DIPRISMATIC:  Doubly prismatic. 

DIPROPARGYL:  A pungent, mobile, volatile liquid, C6H6, produced artificially from certain allyl derivatives. Though isomeric with benzine, it is very different in its chemical relations. Called also dipropinyl. 

DIPROPYL:  One of the hexane paraffins, found in petroleum, consisting of two propyl radicals. See Hexane. 

DIPROTODON:  An extinct Quaternary marsupial from Australia, about as large as the hippopotamus; -- so named because of its two large front teeth. See Illustration in Appendix. 

DIPSAS:  A genus of harmless colubrine snakes. 

DIPSETIC:  Tending to produce thirst. Wright.  DIPSEY; DIPSIE; DIPSY Dip"sey, Dip"sie, Dip"sy, a.  Deep-sea; as, a dipsey line; a dipsy lead. [Sailor's Cant]  DIPSEY; DIPSIE; DIPSY Dip"sey, Dip"sie, Dip"sy, n.  1. A sinker attached to a fishing line; also, a line having several branches, each with such a sinker, used in deep-sea fishing. [Local, U. S.]  2.  (Naut.) A deep-sea lead. [Rare] 

DIPSOMANIA:  A morbid an uncontrollable craving (often periodic) for drink, esp. for alcoholic liquors; also improperly used to denote acute and chronic alcoholism. 

DIPSOMANIAC:  One who has an irrepressible desire for alcoholic drinks. 

DIPSOMANIACAL:  Of or pertaining to dipsomania. 

DIPSOSIS:  Excessive thirst produced by disease. 

DIPTERA:  An extensive order of insects having only two functional wings and two balancers, as the house fly, mosquito, etc. They have a suctorial proboscis, often including two pairs of sharp organs (mandibles and maxillæ) with which they pierce the skin of animals. They undergo a complete metamorphosis, their larvæ (called maggots) being usually without feet. 

DIPTERAL:  Having two wings only; belonging to the order Diptera.  2. (Anc. Arch.)  Having a double row of columns on each on the flanks, as well as in front and rear; -- said of a temple. 

DIPTERAN:  An insect of the order Diptera. 

DIPTEROCARPUS:  A genus of trees found in the East Indies, some species of which produce a fragrant resin, other species wood oil. The fruit has two long wings. 

DIPTEROUS:  Having two wings, as certain insects; belonging to the order Diptera.  2. (Bot.)  Having two wings; two-winged. 

DIPTERYGIAN:  Having two dorsal fins; -- said of certain fishes. 

DIPTOTE:  A noun which has only two cases. Andrews. 

DIPYRE:  A mineral of the scapolite group; -- so called from the double effect of fire upon it, in fusing it, and rendering it phosphorescent. 

DIPYRENOUS:  Containing two stones or nutlets. 

DIPYRIDINE:  A polymeric form of pyridine, C10H10N2, obtained as a colorless oil by the action of sodium on pyridine. 

DIPYRIDYL:  A crystalline nitrogenous base, C10H8N2, obtained by the reduction of pyridine. 

DIRADIATION:  The emission and diffusion of rays of light. 

DIRECT:  In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from west to east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of the motion of a celestial body. Direct action. (Mach.) See Direct-acting.  -- Direct discourse (Gram.), the language of any one quoted without change in its form; as, he said "I can not come;" -- correlative to indirect discourse, in which there is change of form; as, he said that he could not come. They are often called respectively by their Latin names, oratio directa, and oratio obliqua.  -- Direct evidence (Law), evidence which is positive or not inferential; -- opposed to circumstantial, or indirect, evidence.  -- This distinction, however, is merely formal, since there is no direct evidence that is not circumstantial, or dependent on circumstances for its credibility. Wharton.  -- Direct examination (Law), the first examination of a witness in the orderly course, upon the merits. Abbott.  -- Direct fire (Mil.), fire, the direction of which is perpendicular to the line of troops or to the parapet aimed at.  -- Direct process (Metal.), one which yields metal in working condition by a single process from the ore. Knight.  -- Direct tax, a tax assessed directly on lands, etc., and polls, distinguished from taxes on merchandise, or customs, and from excise. 

DIRECT:  To give direction; to point out a course; to act as guide. Wisdom is profitable to direct. Eccl. x. 10. 

DIRECT:  A character, thus [ Moore (Encyc. of Music).  DIRECT-ACTING Di*rect"-act`ing, a. (Mach.)  Acting directly, as one part upon another, without the intervention of other working parts. Direct-acting steam engine, one in which motion is transmitted to the crank without the intervention of a beam or lever; -- also called direct-action steam engine.  -- Direct-acting steam pump, one in which the steam piston rod is directly connected with the pump rod; -- also called direct-action steam pump.  DIRECT ACTION Direct action. (Trade unions)  See Syndicalism, below.  DIRECT-COUPLED Di*rect"-cou"pled, a.  Coupled without intermediate connections, as an engine and a dynamo.  Direct-coupled antenna (Wireless Teleg.), an antenna connected electrically with one point of a closed oscillation circuit in syntony with it and earthed.  DIRECT CURRENT Direct current. (Elec.)  (a) A current flowing in one direction only; -- distinguished from alternating current. When steady and not pulsating a direct current is often called a continuous current.  (b) A direct induced current, or momentary current of the same direction as the inducing current, produced by stopping or removing the latter; also, a similar current produced by removal of a magnet. 

DIRECTER:  One who directs; a director. Directer plane (Geom.), the plane to which all right-lined elements in a warped surface are parallel. 

DIRECTION:  The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary vertical axis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given when the plane of sight passes through the object. Wilhelm.  Syn.  -- Administration; guidance; management; superintendence; oversight; government; order; command; guide; clew. Direction, Control, Command, Order. These words, as here compared, have reference to the exercise of power over the actions of others. Control is negative, denoting power to restrain; command is positive, implying a right to enforce obedience; directions are commands containing instructions how to act. Order conveys more prominently the idea of authority than the word direction. A shipmaster has the command of his vessel; he gives orders or directions to the seamen as to the mode of sailing it; and exercises a due control over the passengers. 

DIRECTNESS:  The quality of being direct; straightness; straightforwardness; immediateness.  DIRECT NOMINATION Direct nomination. (Political Science)  The nomination or designation of candidates for public office by direct popular vote rather than through the action of a convention or body of elected nominating representatives or delegates. The term is applied both to the nomination of candidates without any nominating convention, and, loosely, to the nomination effected, as in the case of candidates for president or senator of the United States, by the election of nominating representatives pledged or instructed to vote for certain candidates dssignated by popular vote.  DIRECTOIRE STYLE Di`rec`toire" style. (Dressmaking)  A style of dress prevalent at the time of the French Directory, characterized by great extravagance of design and imitating the Greek and Roman costumes. 

DIRECTOR:  A part of a machine or instrument which directs its motion or action.  4. (Surg.)  A slender grooved instrument upon which a knife is made to slide when it is wished to limit the extent of motion of the latter, or prevent its injuring the parts beneath. 

DIRECTORATE:  The office of director; also, a body of directors taken jointly. 

DIRECTORSHIP:  The condition or office of a director; directorate. 

DIRECTORY:  Containing directions; enjoining; instructing; directorial. 

DIRECTORY:  A body of directors; board of management; especially, a committee which held executive power in France under the first republic.  4. Direction; guide. [R.] Whitlock.  DIRECT PRIMARY Direct primary. (Political Science)  A primary by which direct nominations of candidates for office are made. 

DIRECTRESS:  A woman who directs. Bp. Hurd. 

DIREFUL:  Dire; dreadful; terrible; calamitous; woeful; as, a direful fiend; a direful day.  -- Dire"ful*ly, adv.  -- Dire"ful*ness, n. 

DIRELY:  In a dire manner. Drayton. 

DIREMPT:  Divided; separated. [Obs.] Stow. 

DIREMPT:  To separate by force; to tear apart. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

DIREMPTION:  A tearing apart; violent separation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DIRENESS:  Terribleness; horror; woefulness. Shak. 

DIREPTION:  The act of plundering, despoiling, or snatching away. [R.] Speed. 

DIREPTITIOUS:  Characterized by direption. [R.] Encyc. Dict. 

DIREPTITIOUSLY:  With plundering violence; by violent injustice. [R.] Strype. 

DIRGE:  A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeral rites; a funeral hymn. The raven croaked, and hollow shrieks of owls Sung dirges at her funeral. Ford. 

DIRGEFUL:  Funereal; moaning. Soothed sadly by the dirgeful wind. Coleridge. 

DIRIGE:  A service for the dead, in the Roman Catholic Church, being the first antiphon of Matins for the dead, of which Dirige is the first word; a dirge. Evensongs and placebo and dirige. Wyclif. Resort, I pray you, unto my sepulture To sing my dirige with great devotion. Lamentation of Mary Magdalene. 

DIRIGENT:  Directing. Baxter. 

DIRIGENT:  The line of motion along which a describent line or surface is carried in the genesis of any plane or solid figure; a directrix. Hutton. 

DIRIGIBLE:  Capable of being directed; steerable; as, a dirigible balloon. 

DIRIMENT:  Absolute. Diriment impediment (R. C. Ch.), an impediment that nullifies marriage. 

DIRK:  A kind of dagger or poniard; -- formerly much used by the Scottish Highlander. Dirk knife, a clasp knife having a large, dirklike blade. 

DIRK:  To stab with a dirk. Sir W. Scott. 

DIRK:  Dark. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DIRK:  To darken. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DIRKNESS:  Darkness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DIRL:  To thrill; to vibrate; to penetrate. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

DIRT:  To make foul of filthy; to dirty. Swift. 

DIRTILY:  In a dirty manner; foully; nastily; filthily; meanly; sordidly. 

DIRTINESS:  The state of being dirty; filthiness; foulness; nastiness; baseness; sordidness. 

DIRUPTION:  Disruption.  DIS- Dis- (; 258)  .  1. A prefix from the Latin, whence F. dés, or sometimes dé-, dis-. The Latin dis- appears as di- before b, d, g, l, m, n, r, v, becomes dif- before f, and either dis- or di- before j. It is from the same root as bis twice, and duo, E. two. See Two, and cf. Bi-, Di-, Dia-. Dis- denotes separation, a parting from, as in distribute, disconnect; hence it often has the force of a privative and negative, as in disarm, disoblige, disagree. Also intensive, as in dissever.  Note: Walker's rule of pronouncing this prefix is, that the s ought always to be pronounced like z, when the next syllable is accented and begins with "a flat mute [b, d, v, g, z], a liquid [l, m, n, r], or a vowel; as, disable, disease, disorder, disuse, disband, disdain, disgrace, disvalue, disjoin, dislike, dislodge, dismay, dismember, dismiss, dismount, disnatured, disrank, disrelish, disrobe." Dr. Webster's example in disapproving of Walker's rule and pronouncing dis- as diz in only one (disease) of the above words, is followed by recent orthoëpists. See Disable, Disgrace, and the other words, beginning with dis-, in this Dictionary.  2. A prefix from Gr. Di-. 

DIS:  The god Pluto. Shak. 

DISABLE:  Lacking ability; unable. [Obs.] "Our disable and unactive force." Daniel. 

DISABLE:  To deprive of legal right or qualification; to render legally incapable. An attainder of the ancestor corrupts the blood, and disables his children to inherit. Blackstone.  3. To deprive of that which gives value or estimation; to declare lacking in competency; to disparage; to undervalue. [Obs.] "He disabled my judgment." Shak.  Syn.  -- To weaken; unfit; disqualify; incapacitate. 

DISABLEMENT:  Deprivation of ability; incapacity. Bacon. 

DISABUSE:  To set free from mistakes; to undeceive; to disengage from fallacy or deception; to set right. To undeceive and disabuse the people. South. If men are now sufficiently enlightened to disabuse themselves or artifice, hypocrisy, and superstition, they will consider this event as an era in their history. J. Adams. 

DISACCOMMODATE:  To put to inconvenience; to incommode. [R.] Bp. Warburton. 

DISACCOMMODATION:  A state of being unaccommodated or unsuited. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

DISACCORD:  To refuse to assent. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISACCORD:  Disagreement. Pop. Sci. Monthly. 

DISACCORDANT:  Not accordant. Fabyan. 

DISACCUSTOM:  To destroy the force of habit in; to wean from a custom. Johnson. 

DISACIDIFY:  To free from acid. 

DISACKNOWLEDGE:  To refuse to acknowledge; to deny; to disown. [Obs.] South. 

DISACQUAINT:  To render unacquainted; to make unfamiliar. [Obs.] While my sick heart With dismal smart Is disacquainted never. Herrick. 

DISACQUAINTANCE:  Neglect of disuse of familiarity, or familiar acquaintance. [Obs.] South. 

DISACRYL:  A white amorphous substance obtained as a polymeric modification of acrolein. 

DISADORN:  To deprive of ornaments. Congreve. 

DISADVANCE:  To draw back, or cause to draw back. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISADVANTAGE:  To injure the interest of; to be detrimental to. 

DISADVANTAGEABLE:  Injurious; disadvantageous. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DISADVANTAGEOUS:  Attended with disadvantage; unfavorable to success or prosperity; inconvenient; prejudicial; -- opposed to advantageous; as, the situation of an army is disadvantageous for attack or defense. Even in the disadvantageous position in which he had been placed, he gave clear indications of future excellence. Prescott. -- Dis*ad`van*ta"geous*ly, adv.  -- Dis*ad`van*ta"geous*ness, n. 

DISADVENTURE:  Misfortune; mishap. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

DISADVENTUROUS:  Unprosperous; unfortunate. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISADVISE:  To advise against; to dissuade from. [R.] Boyle. 

DISAFFECTED:  Alienated in feeling; not wholly loyal. J. H. Newman.  -- Dis`af*fect"ed*ly, adv.  -- Dis`af*fect"ed*ness, n. 

DISAFFECTIONATE:  Not disposed to affection; unfriendly; disaffected. [R.] Blount. 

DISAFFIRM:  To refuse to confirm; to annul, as a judicial decision, by a contrary judgment of a superior tribunal. 

DISAFFIRMANCE:  Overthrow or annulment by the decision of a superior tribunal; as, disaffirmance of judgment. 

DISAFFIRMATION:  The act of disaffirming; negation; refutation. 

DISAFFOREST:  To reduce from the privileges of a forest to the state of common ground; to exempt from forest laws. By charter 9 Henry III. many forests were disafforested. Blackstone. 

DISAGGREGATE:  To destroy the aggregation of; to separate into component parts, as an aggregate mass. 

DISAGGREGATION:  The separation of an aggregate body into its component parts. 

DISAGREEABLENESS:  The state or quality of being; disagreeable; unpleasantness. 

DISAGREEABLY:  In a disagreeable manner; unsuitably; offensively. 

DISAGREEANCE:  Disagreement. [Obs.] 

DISAGREER:  One who disagrees. Hammond. 

DISALLIEGE:  To alienate from allegiance. [Obs. & R.] Milton. 

DISALLOW:  To refuse to allow; to deny the force or validity of; to disown and reject; as, the judge disallowed the executor's charge. To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God. 1 Pet. ii. 4. That the edicts of Cæsar we may at all times disallow, but the statutes of God for no reason we may reject. Milton.  Note: This verb was sometimes followed by of; as, "What follows, if we disallow of this" Shak. See Allow.  Syn.  -- To disapprove; prohibit; censure; reject. 

DISALLOWABLE:  Not allowable; not to be suffered. Raleigh.  -- Dis`al*low"a*ble*ness, n. 

DISALLOWANCE:  The act of disallowing; refusal to admit or permit; rejection.  Syn.  -- Disapprobation; prohibition; condemnation; censure; rejection. 

DISALLY:  To part, as an alliance; to sunder. [R.] "Disallied their nuptials." Milton. 

DISANCHOR:  To raise the anchor of, as a ship; to weigh anchor. [Obs.] Heywood. 

DISANGELICAL:  Not angelical. [R.] "Disangelical nature." Coventry. 

DISANNEX:  To disunite; to undo or repeal the annexation of. State Trials (1608). 

DISANNUL:  To annul completely; to render void or of no effect. For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul Isaiah xiv. 27.  Note: The prefix in this word an its derivatives is intensive, and not negative. 

DISANNULLER:  One who disannuls. 

DISANNULMENT:  Complete annulment. 

DISANOINT:  To invalidate the consecration of; as, to disanoint a king. [Obs.] Milton. 

DISAPPAREL:  To disrobe; to strip of apparel; to make naked. Drink disapparels the soul. Junius (1635). 

DISAPPEARANCE:  The act of disappearing; cessation of appearance; removal from sight; vanishing. Addison. 

DISAPPEARING:  p. pr. & vb. n. of Disappear.  Disappearing carriage (Ordnance), a carriage for heavy coast guns on which the gun is raised above the parapet for firing and upon discharge is lowered behind the parapet for protection. The standard type of disappearing carriage in the coast artillery of the United States army is the Buffington-Crozier carriage, in which the gun trunnions are secured at the upper and after ends of a pair of heavy levers, at the lower ends of which is attached a counterweight of lead. The levers are pivoted at their middle points, which are, with the top carriage, permitted restrained motion along the slightly inclined chassis rails. The counterweight is held in place by a pawl and ratchet. When the gun is loaded the pawl is released and the counterweight sinks, raising the gun to the firing position above the parapet. The recoil following the discharge returns the gun to the loading position, the counterweight rising until the pawl engages the ratchet. 

DISAPPENDENCY:  A detachment or separation from a former connection. [R.] 

DISAPPENDENT:  Freed from a former connection or dependence; disconnected. [R.] 

DISAPPRECIATE:  To undervalue; not to esteem.  -- Dis`ap*pre`ci*a"tion, n. 

DISAPPROBATION:  The act of disapproving; mental condemnation of what is judged wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; feeling of censure. We have ever expressed the most unqualified disapprobation of all the steps. Burke. 

DISAPPROBATORY:  Containing disapprobation; serving to disapprove. 

DISAPPROPRIATE:  Severed from the appropriation or possession of a spiritual corporation. The appropriation may be severed, and the church become disappropriate, two ways. Blackstone. 

DISAPPROPRIATE:  To sever from appropriation or possession a spiritual corporation. Appropriations of the several parsonages . . . would heave been, by the rules of the common law, disappropriated. Blackstone. 

DISAPPROPRIATION:  The act of disappropriating. 

DISAPPROVAL:  Disapprobation; dislike; censure; adverse judgment. 

DISAPPROVER:  One who disapproves. 

DISAPPROVINGLY:  In a disapproving manner. 

DISARD:  See Dizzard. [Obs.] Burton. 

DISARMAMENT:  The act of disarming. 

DISARMATURE:  The act of divesting of armature. [R.] 

DISARMED:  Deprived of claws, and teeth or beaks. Cussans. 

DISARMER:  One who disarms. 

DISARRANGE:  To unsettle or disturb the order or due arrangement of; to throw out of order. 

DISARRANGEMENT:  The act of disarranging, or the state of being disarranged; confusion; disorder. Cowper. 

DISARRAYMENT:  Disorder. [R.] Feltham. 

DISARTICULATE:  To sunder; to separate, as joints.  -- Dis`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. 

DISARTICULATOR:  One who disarticulates and prepares skeletons. 

DISASSENT:  To dissent. [Obs.] 

DISASSENT:  Dissent. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

DISASSENTER:  One who disassents; a dissenter. [Obs.] State Trials (1634). 

DISASSIDUITY:  Want of as siduity or care. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. 

DISASSIMILATE:  To subject to disassimilation. 

DISASSIMILATION:  The decomposition of complex substances, within the organism, into simpler ones suitable only for excretion, with evolution of energy, -- a normal nutritional process the reverse of assimilation; downward metabolism. The breaking down of already existing chemical compounds into simpler ones, sometimes called disassimilation. Martin. 

DISASSIMILATIVE:  Having power to disassimilate; of the nature of disassimilation. Disassimilative processes constitute a marked feature in the life of animal cells. McKendrick. 

DISASSOCIATE:  To disconnect from things associated; to disunite; to dissociate. Florio. 

DISASTERLY:  Disastrously. [Obs.] Drayton. 

DISATTIRE:  To unrobe; to undress. Spenser. 

DISAUGMENT:  To diminish. [R.] 

DISAUTHORIZE:  To deprive of credit or authority; to discredit. [R.] W. Wotton. 

DISAVAUNCE:  To retard; to repel; to do damage to. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISAVENTURE:  Misfortune. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISAVENTUROUS:  Misadventurous; unfortunate. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISAVOUCH:  To disavow. [R.] Daniel. 

DISAVOWAL:  The act of disavowing, disclaiming, or disowning; rejection and denial. An earnest disavowal of fear often proceeds from fear. Richardson. 

DISAVOWANCE:  Disavowal. [Obs.] South. 

DISAVOWER:  One who disavows. 

DISAVOWMENT:  Disavowal. [R.] Wotton. 

DISBAND:  To become separated, broken up, dissolved, or scattered; especially, to quit military service by breaking up organization.  When both rocks and all things shall disband. Herbert. Human society would in a short space disband. Tillotson. 

DISBANDMENT:  The act of disbanding. 

DISBAR:  To expel from the bar, or the legal profession; to deprive (an attorney, barrister, or counselor) of his status and privileges as such. Abbott. 

DISBARK:  To disembark. Pope. 

DISBARK:  To strip of bark; to bark. [R.] Boyle. 

DISBARMENT:  Act of disbarring. 

DISBASE:  To debase or degrade. [Obs.] Nor you nor your house were so much as spoken of before I disbased myself. B. Jonson. 

DISBECOME:  To misbecome. [Obs.] Massinger. 

DISBELIEF:  The act of disbelieving;; a state of the mind in which one is fully persuaded that an opinion, assertion, or doctrine is not true; refusal of assent, credit, or credence; denial of belief. Our belief or disbelief of a thing does not alter the nature of the thing. Tillotson. No sadder proof can be given by a man of his own littleness that disbelief in great men. Carlyle.  Syn.  -- Distrust; unbelief; incredulity; doubt; skepticism.  -- Disbelief, Unbelief. Unbelief is a mere failure to admit; disbelief is a positive rejection. One may be an unbeliever in Christianity from ignorance or want of inquiry; a unbeliever has the proofs before him, and incurs the guilt of setting them aside. Unbelief is usually open to conviction; disbelief is already convinced as to the falsity of that which it rejects. Men often tell a story in such a manner that we regard everything they say with unbelief. Familiarity with the worst parts of human nature often leads us into a disbelief in many good qualities which really exist among men. 

DISBELIEVE:  Not to believe; to refuse belief or credence to; to hold not to be true or actual. Assertions for which there is abundant positive evidence are often disbelieved, on account of what is called their improbability or impossibility. J. S. Mill. 

DISBELIEVER:  One who disbelieves, or refuses belief; an unbeliever. Specifically, one who does not believe the Christian religion. I. Watts. 

DISBENCH:  To deprive (a bencher) of his privileges. Mozley & W. 

DISBEND:  To unbend. [Obs.] Stirling. 

DISBIND:  To unbind; to loosen. [Obs.] Mede. 

DISBLAME:  To clear from blame. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISBODIED:  Disembodied. [R.] 

DISBOSCATION:  Converting forest land into cleared or arable land; removal of a forest. Sir W. Scott. 

DISBOWEL:  To disembowel. [R.] Spenser. 

DISBRANCH:  To divest of a branch or branches; to tear off. Shak. 

DISBUD:  To deprive of buds or shoots, as for training, or economizing the vital strength of a tree. 

DISBURDEN:  To rid of a burden; to free from a load borne or from something oppressive; to unload; to disencumber; to relieve. He did it to disburden a conscience. Feltham. My mediations . . . will, I hope, be more calm, being thus disburdened. Hammond.  Syn.  -- To unload; unburden; discharge; free. 

DISBURDEN:  To relieve one's self of a burden; to ease the mind. Milton. 

DISBURGEON:  To strip of burgeons or buds; to disbud. [R.] Holland. 

DISBURSE:  To pay out; to expend; -- usually from a public fund or treasury. The duty of collecting and disbursing his revenues. Macaulay. Disbursing officer, an officer in any department of the public service who is charged with the duty of paying out public money. 

DISBURSER:  One who disburses money. 

DISBURTHEN:  To disburden; to relieve of a load. [Archaic] 

DISC:  A flat round plate; (Biol.)  a circular structure either in plants or animals; as, a blood disc, a germinal disc, etc. Same as Disk. 

DISCAGE:  To uncage. [R.] Tennyson. 

DISCAL:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells. 

DISCALCEATE:  To pull off shoes or sandals from. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

DISCALCEATED:  Deprived off shoes or sandals; unshod; discalced. 

DISCALCEATION:  The act of pulling off the shoes or sandals. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DISCALCED:  Unshod; barefooted; -- in distinction from calced. "The foundation of houses of discalced friars." Cardinal Manning's St. Teresa. 

DISCAMP:  To drive from a camp. [Obs.] Holland. 

DISCANDY:  To melt; to dissolve; to thaw. [Obs.] 

DISCANT:  See Descant, n. 

DISCAPACITATE:  To deprive of capacity; to incapacitate. [R.] 

DISCARD:  To throw out of one's hand, as superfluous cards; to lay aside (a card or cards).  2. To cast off as useless or as no longer of service; to dismiss from employment, confidence, or favor; to discharge; to turn away. They blame the favorites, and think it nothing extraordinary that the queen should . . . resolve to discard them. Swift.  3. To put or thrust away; to reject. A man discards the follies of boyhood. I. Taylor.  Syn.  -- To dismiss; displace; discharge; cashier. 

DISCARD:  To make a discard. 

DISCARD:  The act of discarding; also, the card or cards discarded. 

DISCARDURE:  Rejection; dismissal. [R.] Hayter. 

DISCARNATE:  Stripped of flesh. [Obs.] "Discarnate bones." Glanvill. 

DISCASE:  To strip; to undress. Shak. 

DISCEDE:  To yield or give up; to depart. [Obs.] I dare not discede from my copy a tittle. Fuller. 

DISCEPT:  To debate; to discuss. [R.] One dissertates, he is candid; Two must discept, -- has distinguished. R. Browning. 

DISCEPTATION:  Controversy; disputation; discussion. [Archaic] Verbose janglings and endless disceptations. Strype. 

DISCEPTATOR:  One who arbitrates or decides. [R.] Cowley. 

DISCERNANCE:  Discernment. [Obs.] 

DISCERNER:  One who, or that which, discerns, distinguishes, perceives, or judges; as, a discerner of truth, of right and wrong. A great observer and discerner of men's natures. Clarendon. 

DISCERNIBLE:  Capable of being discerned by the eye or the understanding; as, a star is discernible by the eye; the identity of difference of ideas is discernible by the understanding. The effect of the privations and sufferings . . . was discernible to the last in his temper and deportment. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Perceptible; distinguishable; apparent; visible; evident; manifest. 

DISCERNIBLENESS:  The quality of being discernible. 

DISCERNIBLY:  In a manner to be discerned; perceptibly; visibly. Hammond. 

DISCERNING:  Acute; shrewd; sagacious; sharp-sighted. Macaulay. 

DISCERNINGLY:  In a discerning manner; with judgment; judiciously; acutely. Garth. 

DISCERP:  Capability or liableness to be discerped. [R.] Wollaston.  DISCERPIBLE; DISCERPTIBLE Dis*cerp"i*ble, Dis*cerp"ti*ble, a. Etym: [See Discerp.]  Capable of being discerped. [R.] 

DISCERPTION:  The act of pulling to pieces, or of separating the parts. Bp. Hall. 

DISCERPTIVE:  Tending to separate or disunite parts. Encys. Dict. 

DISCESSION:  Departure. [Obs.] 

DISCHARGE:  To throw off or deliver a load, charge, or burden; to unload; to emit or give vent to fluid or other contents; as, the water pipe discharges freely. The cloud, if it were oily or fatty, would not discharge. Bacon. 

DISCHARGER:  One who, or that which, discharges. Specifically, in electricity, an instrument for discharging a Leyden jar, or electrical battery, by making a connection between the two surfaces; a discharging rod. 

DISCHEVELE:  Disheveled. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISCHURCH:  To deprive of status as a church, or of membership in a church. Bp. Hall. 

DISCIDE:  To divide; to cleave in two. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISCIFEROUS:  Bearing disks.  DISCIFLORAL; DISCIFLOROUS Dis`ci*flo"ral, Dis`ci*flo"rous, a. Etym: [See Disk, and Floral.] (Bot.)  Bearing the stamens on a discoid outgrowth of the receptacle; - - said of a subclass of plants. Cf. Calycifloral. 

DISCIFORM:  Discoid. 

DISCINA:  A genus of Branchiopoda, having a disklike shell, attached by one valve, which is perforated by the peduncle. 

DISCINCT:  Ungirded; loosely dressed. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

DISCIND:  To part; to divide. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DISCIPLE:  One who receives instruction from another; a scholar; a learner; especially, a follower who has learned to believe in the truth of the doctrine of his teacher; an adherent in doctrine; as, the disciples of Plato; the disciples of our Savior. The disciples, or The twelve disciples, the twelve selected companions of Jesus; -- also called the apostles.  -- Disciples of Christ. See Christian, n., 3, and Campbellite.  Syn.  -- Learner; scholar; pupil; follower; adherent. 

DISCIPLESHIP:  The state of being a disciple or follower in doctrines and precepts. Jer. Taylor. 

DISCIPLESS:  A female disciple. [Obs.] 

DISCIPLINABLENESS:  The quality of being improvable by discipline. Sir M. Hale. 

DISCIPLINAL:  Relating to discipline. Latham. 

DISCIPLINANT:  A flagellant. See Flagellant. 

DISCIPLINARIAN:  Pertaining to discipline. "Displinarian system." Milman. 

DISCIPLINARY:  Pertaining to discipline; intended for discipline; corrective; belonging to a course of training. Those canons . . . were only disciplinary. Bp. Ferne. The evils of the . . . are disciplinary and remedial. Buckminster. 

DISCIPLINE:  The enforcement of methods of correction against one guilty of ecclesiastical offenses; reformatory or penal action toward a church member.  8. (R. C. Ch.)  Self- inflicted and voluntary corporal punishment, as penance, or otherwise; specifically, a penitential scourge.  9. (Eccl.)  A system of essential rules and duties; as, the Romish or Anglican discipline.  Syn.  -- Education; instruction; training; culture; correction; chastisement; punishment. 

DISCIPLINER:  One who disciplines. 

DISCLAIM:  To relinquish or deny having a claim; to disavow another's claim; to decline accepting, as an estate, interest, or office. Burrill.  Syn.  -- To disown; disavow; renounce; repudiate. 

DISCLAIM:  To disavow or renounce all part, claim, or share. Blackstone. Disclaim in, Disclaim from, to disown; to disavow. [Obs.] "Nature disclaims in thee." Shak. 

DISCLAIMER:  A denial, disavowal, or renunciation, as of a title, claim, interest, estate, or trust; relinquishment or waiver of an interest or estate. Burrill.  3. A public disavowal, as of pretensions, claims, opinions, and the like. Burke. 

DISCLAMATION:  A disavowing or disowning. Bp. Hall. 

DISCLAME:  To disclaim; to expel. [Obs.] "Money did love disclame." Spenser. 

DISCLAUNDER:  To injure one's good name; to slander. [Obs.] 

DISCLOAK:  To take off a cloak from; to uncloak. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

DISCLOSE:  Disclosure. [Obs.] Shak. Young. 

DISCLOSED:  Represented with wings expanded; -- applied to doves and other birds not of prey. Cussans. 

DISCLOSER:  One who discloses. 

DISCLOUD:  To clear from clouds. [Archaic] Fuller. 

DISCLOUT:  To divest of a clout. [R.] 

DISCLUSION:  A shutting off; exclusion. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

DISCOAST:  To depart; to quit the coast (that is, the side or border) of anything; to be separated. [Obs.] As far as heaven and earth discoasted lie. G. Fletcher. To discoast from the plain and simple way of speech. Barrow. 

DISCOBLASTIC:  Applied to a form of egg cleavage seen in osseous fishes, which occurs only in a small disk that separates from the rest of the egg. 

DISCODACTYL:  One of the tree frogs. 

DISCODACTYLIA:  A division of amphibians having suctorial disks on the toes, as the tree frogs. 

DISCODACTYLOUS:  Having sucking disks on the toes, as the tree frogs. 

DISCOHERENT:  Incoherent. [R.] 

DISCOID:  Having the form of a disk, as those univalve shells which have the whorls in one plane, so as to form a disk, as the pearly nautilus. Discoid flower (Bot.), a compound flower, consisting of tubular florets only, as a tansy, lacking the rays which are seen in the daisy and sunflower. 

DISCOID:  Anything having the form of a discus or disk; particularly, a discoid shell. 

DISCOIDAL:  Disk-shaped; discoid. 

DISCOLITH:  One of a species of coccoliths, having an oval discoidal body, with a thick strongly refracting rim, and a thinner central portion. One of them measures about 

DISCOLORATE:  To discolor. [R.] Fuller. 

DISCOMFIT:  Discomfited; overthrown. [Obs.] 

DISCOMFIT:  Rout; overthrow; discomfiture. Such as discomfort as shall quite despoil him. Milton. 

DISCOMFITURE:  The act of discomfiting, or the state of being discomfited; rout; overthrow; defeat; frustration; confusion and dejection. Every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great discomfiture. 1 Sam. xiv. 20. A hope destined to end . . . in discomfiture and disgrace. Macaulay. 

DISCOMMENDABLE:  Deserving, disapprobation or blame.  -- Dis`com*mend"a*ble*ness, n. 

DISCOMMENDATION:  Blame; censure; reproach. [R.] Ayliffe. 

DISCOMMENDER:  One who discommends; a dispraiser. Johnson. 

DISCOMMISSION:  To deprive of a commission or trust. [R.] Laud. 

DISCOMMODATE:  To discommode. [Obs.] Howell. 

DISCOMMODE:  To put inconvenience; to incommode; to trouble. [R.]  Syn.  -- To incommode; annoy; inconvenience. 

DISCOMMODIOUS:  Inconvenient; troublesome; incommodious. [R.] Spenser.  -- Dis`com*mo"di*ous*ly, adv.  -- Dis`com*mo"di*ous*ness, n. 

DISCOMMODITY:  Disadvantage; inconvenience. Bacon. 

DISCOMMON:  To deprive of commonable quality, as lands, by inclosing or appropriating. Burrill. 

DISCOMMUNITY:  A lack of common possessions, properties, or relationship. Community of embryonic structure reveals community of descent; but dissimilarity of embryonic development does not prove discommunity of descent. Darwin. 

DISCOMPANY:  To free from company; to dissociate. [R.] It she be alone now, and discompanied. B. Jonson. 

DISCOMPLEXION:  To change the complexion or hue of. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

DISCOMPLIANCE:  Failure or refusal to comply; noncompliance. A compliance will discommend me to Mr. Coventry, and a discompliance to my lord chancellor. Pepys. 

DISCOMPOSED:  Disordered; disturbed; disquieted.  -- Dis`com*pos"ed*ly, adv.  -- Dis`com*pos"ed*ness, n. 

DISCOMPOSITION:  Inconsistency; discordance. [Obs.] Donne. 

DISCOMPT:  To discount. See Discount. Hudibras. 

DISCONCERT:  Want of concert; disagreement. Sir W. Temple. 

DISCONCERTION:  The act of disconcerting, or state of being disconcerted; discomposure; perturbation. [R.] State Trials (1794). 

DISCONDUCIVE:  Not conductive; impeding; disadvantageous. [R.] 

DISCONFORMABLE:  Not conformable. Disconformable in religion from us. Stow (1603). 

DISCONFORMITY:  Want of conformity or correspondence; inconsistency; disagreement. Those . . . in some disconformity to ourselves. Milton. Disagreement and disconformity betwixt the speech and the conception of the mind. Hakewill. 

DISCONGRUITY:  Incongruity; disagreement; unsuitableness. Sir M. Hale. 

DISCONNECT:  To dissolve the union or connection of; to disunite; to sever; to separate; to disperse. The commonwealth itself would . . . be disconnected into the dust and powder of individuality. Burke. This restriction disconnects bank paper and the precious metals. Walsh. 

DISCONNECTION:  The act of disconnecting, or state of being disconnected; separation; want of union. Nothing was therefore to be left in all the subordinate members but weakness, disconnection, and confusion. Burke. 

DISCONSECRATE:  To deprive of consecration or sacredness. [R.] 

DISCONSENT:  To differ; to disagree; to dissent. [Obs.] Milton. 

DISCONSOLACY:  The state of being disconsolate. [Obs.] Barrow. 

DISCONSOLATE:  Disconsolateness. [Obs.] Barrow. 

DISCONSOLATED:  Disconsolate. [Obs.] A poor, disconsolated, drooping creature. Sterne. 

DISCONSOLATION:  Dejection; grief. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

DISCONTENT:  Not content; discontented; dissatisfied. Jer. Taylor. Passion seemed to be much discontent, but Patience was very quiet. Bunyan. 

DISCONTENT:  To deprive if content; to make uneasy; to dissatisfy. Suckling. 

DISCONTENTATION:  Discontent. [Obs.] Ascham. 

DISCONTENTED:  Dissatisfied; uneasy in mind; malcontent. And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him. 1 Sam. xxii. 2. -- Dis`con*tent"ed*ly, adv.  -- Dis`con*tent"ed*ness, n. 

DISCONTENTFUL:  Full of discontent. [R.] 

DISCONTENTIVE:  Relating or tending to discontent. [R.] "Pride is ever discontentive." Feltham. 

DISCONTENTMENT:  The state of being discontented; uneasiness; inquietude. Bacon. 

DISCONTINUABLE:  Admitting of being discontinued. [R.] 

DISCONTINUATION:  Breach or interruption of continuity; separation of parts in a connected series; discontinuance. Upon any discontinuation of parts, made either by bubbles or by shaking the glass, the whole mercury falls. Sir I. Newton. 

DISCONTINUE:  To interrupt the continuance of; to intermit, as a practice or habit; to put an end to; to cause to cease; to cease using, to stop; to leave off. Set up their conventicles again, which had been discontinued. Bp. Burnet. I have discontinued school Above a twelvemonth. Shak. Taught the Greek tongue, discontinued before in these parts the space of seven hundred years. Daniel. They modify and discriminate the voice, without appearing to discontinue it. Holder. 

DISCONTINUEE:  One whose possession of an estate is broken off, or discontinued; one whose estate is subject to discontinuance. 

DISCONTINUER:  One who discontinues, or breaks off or away from; an absentee. He was no gadder abroad, not discontinuer from his convent for a long time. Fuller. 

DISCONTINUITY:  Want of continuity or cohesion; disunion of parts. "Discontinuity of surface." Boyle. 

DISCONTINUOR:  One who deprives another of the possession of an estate by discontinuance. See Discontinuance, 2. 

DISCONVENIENCE:  Unsuitableness; incongruity. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DISCONVENIENT:  Not convenient or congruous; unsuitable; ill-adapted. [Obs.] Bp. Reynolds. 

DISCOPHORA:  A division of acalephs or jellyfishes, including most of the large disklike species.  -- Dis*coph"o*rous, a. 

DISCORD:  Union of musical sounds which strikes the ear harshly or disagreeably, owing to the incommensurability of the vibrations which they produce; want of musical concord or harmony; a chord demanding resolution into a concord. For a discord itself is but a harshness of divers sounds mBacon. Apple of discord. See under Apple.  Syn.  -- Variance; difference; opposition; contrariety; clashing; dissension; contention; strife; disagreement; dissonance. 

DISCORD:  To disagree; to be discordant; to jar; to clash; not to suit. [Obs.] The one discording with the other. Bacon. 

DISCORDABLE:  That may produce discord; disagreeing; discordant. [R.] Halliwell.  DISCORDANCE; DISCORDANCY Dis*cord"ance, Dis*cord"an*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. discordance.]  State or quality of being discordant; disagreement; inconsistency. There will arise a thousand discordances of opinion. I. Taylor. 

DISCORDANT:  Dissonant; not in harmony or musical concord; harsh; jarring; as, discordant notes or sounds. For still their music seemed to start Discordant echoes in each heart. Longfellow.  3. (Geol.)  Said of strata which lack conformity in direction of bedding, either as in unconformability, or as caused by a fault.  Syn.  -- Disagreeing; incongruous; contradictory; repugnant; opposite; contrary; inconsistent; dissonant; harsh; jarring; irreconcilable.  -- Dis*cord"ant*ly, adv.  -- Dis*cord"ant*ness, n. [R.] 

DISCORDFUL:  Full of discord; contentious. [Obs.] "His discordful dame." Spenser. 

DISCORDOUS:  Full of discord. [Obs.] 

DISCORPORATE:  Deprived of the privileges or form of a body corporate. [Obs.] Jas. II. 

DISCORRESPONDENT:  Incongruous. W. Montagu. 

DISCOST:  Same as Discoast. [Obs.] 

DISCOUNSEL:  To dissuade. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISCOUNT:  To lend, or make a practice of lending, money, abating the discount; as, the discount for sixty or ninety days. 

DISCOUNTABLE:  Capable of being, or suitable to be, discounted; as, certain forms are necessary to render notes discountable at a bank. 

DISCOUNTENANCE:  Unfavorable aspect; unfriendly regard; cold treatment; disapprobation; whatever tends to check or discourage. He thought a little discountenance on those persons would suppress that spirit. Clarendon. 

DISCOUNTENANCER:  One who discountenances; one who disfavors. Bacon. 

DISCOUNTER:  One who discounts; a discount broker. Burke. 

DISCOURAGE:  Lack of courage; cowardliness. 

DISCOURAGEABLE:  Capable of being discouraged; easily disheartened. Bp. Hall. 

DISCOURAGER:  One who discourages. The promoter of truth and the discourager of error. Sir G. C. Lewis. 

DISCOURAGING:  Causing or indicating discouragement.  -- Dis*cour"a*ging*ly, adv. 

DISCOURE:  To discover. [Obs.] That none might her discoure. Spenser. 

DISCOURSIVE:  The state or quality of being discoursive or able to reason. [R.] Feltham. 

DISCOURTEOUS:  Uncivil; rude; wanting in courtesy or good manners; uncourteous.  -- Dis*cour"te*ous*ly, adv.  -- Dis*cour"te*ous*ness, n. 

DISCOURTESY:  Rudeness of behavior or language; ill manners; manifestation of disrespect; incivility. Be calm in arguing; for fierceness makes Error a fault, and truth discourtesy. Herbert. 

DISCOURTSHIP:  Want of courtesy. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

DISCOUS:  Disklike; discoid. 

DISCOVENANT:  To dissolve covenant with. 

DISCOVER:  To discover or show one's self. [Obs.] This done, they discover. Decke Nor was this the first time that they discovered to be followers of this world. Milton. 

DISCOVERABILITY:  The quality of being discoverable. [R.] Carlyle. 

DISCOVERABLE:  Capable of being discovered, found out, or perceived; as, many minute animals are discoverable only by the help of the microscope; truths discoverable by human industry. 

DISCOVERMENT:  Discovery. [Obs.] 

DISCOVERT:  Not covert; not within the bonds of matrimony; unmarried; -- applied either to a woman who has never married or to a widow. 

DISCOVERT:  An uncovered place or part. [Obs.] At discovert, uncovered. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISCOVERTURE:  A state of being released from coverture; freedom of a woman from the coverture of a husband. 

DISCOVERY:  = Columbus Day, above. 

DISCRADLE:  To take from a cradle. [R.] This airy apparition first discradled From Tournay into Portugal. Ford. 

DISCREDITABLE:  Not creditable; injurious to reputation; disgraceful; disreputable.  -- Dis*cred"it*a*bly, adv. 

DISCREDITOR:  One who discredits. 

DISCREET:  The state or quality of being discrepant; disagreement; variance; discordance; dissimilarity; contrariety. There hath been ever a discrepance of vesture of youth and age, men and women. Sir T. Elyot. There is no real discrepancy between these two genealogies. G. S. Faber. 

DISCREPANT:  Discordant; at variance; disagreeing; contrary; different. The Egyptians were . . . the most oddly discrepant from the rest in their manner of worship. Cudworth. 

DISCREPANT:  A dissident. J. Taylor. 

DISCRETE:  Separate; not coalescent; -- said of things usually coalescent. Discrete movement. See Concrete movement of the voice, under Concrete, a.  -- Discrete proportion, proportion where the ratio of the means is different from that of either couplet; as, 3:6::8:16, 3 bearing the same proportion to 6 as 8 does to 16. But 3 is not to 6 as 6 to 8. It is thus opposed to continued or continual proportion; as, 3:6::12:24.  -- Discrete quantity, that which must be divided into units, as number, and is opposed to continued quantity, as duration, or extension. 

DISCRETE:  To separate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DISCRETELY:  Separately; disjunctively. 

DISCRETION:  Left to discretion; unrestrained except by discretion or judgment; as, an ambassador with discretionary powers.  DISCRETIONALLY; DISCRETIONARILY Dis*cre"tion*al*ly, Dis*cre"tion*a*ri*ly, adv.  At discretion; according to one's discretion or judgment. 

DISCRETIVE:  Marking distinction or separation; disjunctive. Discretive proposition (Logic & Gram.), one that expresses distinction, opposition, or variety, by means of discretive particles, as but, though, yet, etc.; as, travelers change their climate, but not their temper. 

DISCRETIVELY:  In a discretive manner. 

DISCRIMINABLE:  Capable of being discriminated. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DISCRIMINAL:  In palmistry, applied to the line which marks the separation between the hand and the arm. 

DISCRIMINANT:  The eliminant of the n partial differentials of any homogenous function of n variables. See Eliminant. 

DISCRIMINATE:  Having the difference marked; distinguished by certain tokens. Bacon. 

DISCRIMINATE:  To set apart as being different; to mark as different; to separate from another by discerning differences; to distinguish. Cowper. To discriminate the goats from the sheep. Barrow. 

DISCRIMINATELY:  In a discriminating manner; distinctly. 

DISCRIMINATENESS:  The state of being discriminated; distinctness. 

DISCRIMINATING:  Marking a difference; distinguishing.  -- Dis*crim"i*na`ting*ly, adv. And finds with keen discriminating sight, Black's not so black; -- nor white so very white. Canning. 

DISCRIMINATION:  The arbitrary imposition of unequal tariffs for substantially the same service. A difference in rates, not based upon any corresponding difference in cost, constitutes a case of discrimination. A. T. Hadley.  4. The quality of being discriminating; faculty of nicely distinguishing; acute discernment; as, to show great discrimination in the choice of means.  5. That which discriminates; mark of distinction.  Syn.  -- Discernment; penetration; clearness; acuteness; judgment; distinction. See Discernment. 

DISCRIMINATIVELY:  With discrimination or distinction. J. Foster. 

DISCRIMINATOR:  One who discriminates. 

DISCRIMINATORY:  Discriminative. 

DISCRIMINOUS:  Hazardous; dangerous. [Obs.] Harvey. 

DISCRIVE:  To describe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISCROWN:  To deprive of a crown. The end had crowned the work; it not unreasonably discrowned the workman. Motley. 

DISCRUCIATE:  To torture; to excruciate. [Obs.] Discruciate a man in deep distress. Herrick. 

DISCUBITORY:  Leaning; fitted for a reclining posture. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DISCULPATE:  To free from blame or the imputation of a fault; to exculpate. I almost fear you think I begged it, but I can disculpate myself. Walpole. 

DISCULPATION:  Exculpation. Burke. 

DISCULPATORY:  Tending to exculpate; exculpatory. 

DISCUMBENCY:  The act of reclining at table according to the manner of the ancients at their meals. Sir T. Browne. 

DISCUMBER:  To free from that which cumbers or impedes; to disencumber. [Archaic] Pope. 

DISCURE:  To discover; to reveal; to discoure. [Obs.] I will, if please you it discure, assay To ease you of that ill, so wisely as I may. Spenser. 

DISCURRENT:  Not current or free to circulate; not in use. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 

DISCURSION:  The act of discoursing or reasoning; range, as from thought to thought. Coleridge. 

DISCURSIST:  A discourser. [Obs.] L. Addison. 

DISCURSORY:  Argumentative; discursive; reasoning. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

DISCURSUS:  Argumentation; ratiocination; discursive reasoning. 

DISCUSS:  To examine or search thoroughly; to exhaust a remedy against, as against a principal debtor before proceeding against the surety. Burrill.  Syn.  -- To Discuss, Examine, Debate. We speak of examining a subject when we ponder it with care, in order to discover its real state, or the truth respecting it. We speak of discussing a topic when we examine it thoroughly in its distinct parts. The word is very commonly applied to matters of opinion. We may discuss a subject without giving in an adhesion to any conclusion. We speak of debating a point when we examine it in mutual argumentation between opposing parties. In debate we contend for or against some conclusion or view. 

DISCUSSER:  One who discusses; one who sifts or examines. Wood. 

DISCUSSIONAL:  Pertaining to discussion. 

DISCUSSIVE:  Able or tending to discuss or disperse tumors or coagulated matter.  2. Doubt-dispelling; decisive. [R.] A kind of peremptory and discussive voice. Hopkins. 

DISCUSSIVE:  A medicine that discusses or disperses morbid humors; a discutient. 

DISCUTIENT:  Serving to disperse morbid matter; discussive; as, a discutient application.  -- n.  An agent (as a medicinal application) which serves to disperse morbid matter. "Foment with discutiens." Wiseman. 

DISDAIN:  To be filled with scorn; to feel contemptuous anger; to be haughty. And when the chief priests and scribes saw the marvels that he did . . . they disdained. Genevan Testament (Matt. xxi. 15). 

DISDAINED:  Disdainful. [Obs.] Revenge the jeering and disdained contempt Of this proud king. Shak. 

DISDAINFUL:  Full of disdain; expressing disdain; scornful; contemptuous; haughty. From these Turning disdainful to an equal good. Akenside. -- Dis*dain"ful*ly, adv.  -- Dis*dain"ful*ness, n. 

DISDAINISHLY:  Disdainfully. [Obs.] Vives. 

DISDAINOUS:  Disdainful. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

DISDAINOUSLY:  Disdainfully. [Obs.] Bale. 

DISDEIFY:  To divest or deprive of deity or of a deific rank or condition. Feltham. 

DISDEIGN:  To disdain. [Obs.] Guyon much disdeigned so loathly sight. Spenser. 

DISDIACLAST:  One of the dark particles forming the doubly refracting disks of muscle fibers. 

DISDIAPASON:  An interval of two octaves, or a fifteenth; -- called also bisdiapason. 

DISEASED:  Afflicted with disease. It is my own diseased imagination that torments me. W. Irving.  Syn.  -- See Morbid. 

DISEASEDNESS:  The state of being diseased; a morbid state; sickness. [R.] T. Burnet. 

DISEASEFULNESS:  The quality of being diseaseful; trouble; trial. [R.] Sir P. Sidney. 

DISEASEMENT:  Uneasiness; inconvenience. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DISEDGE:  To deprive of an edge; to blunt; to dull. Served a little to disedge The sharpness of that pain about her heart. Tennyson. 

DISEDIFY:  To fail of edifying; to injure. [R.] 

DISELDER:  To deprive of an elder or elders, or of the office of an elder. [Obs.] Fuller. 

DISELENIDE:  A selenide containing two atoms of selenium in each molecule. 

DISEMBARK:  To remove from on board a vessel; to put on shore; to land; to debark; as, the general disembarked the troops.  Go to the bay, and disembark my coffers. Shak. 

DISEMBARK:  To go ashore out of a ship or boat; to leave a ship; to debark. And, making fast their moorings, disembarked. Cowper. 

DISEMBARKATION:  The act of disembarking. 

DISEMBARKMENT:  Disembarkation. [R.] 

DISEMBARRASS:  To free from embarrassment, or perplexity; to clear; to extricate. To disembarrass himself of his companion. Sir W. Scott. 

DISEMBARRASSMENT:  Freedom or relief from impediment or perplexity. 

DISEMBAY:  To clear from a bay. Sherburne. 

DISEMBELLISH:  To deprive of embellishment; to disadorn. Carlyle. 

DISEMBITTER:  To free from 

DISEMBODIED:  Divested of a body; ceased to be corporal; incorporeal. The disembodied spirits of the dead. Bryant. 

DISEMBODIMENT:  The act of disembodying, or the state of being disembodied. 

DISEMBODY:  To disarm and disband, as a body of soldiers,-Wilhelm. 

DISEMBOGUE:  To become discharged; to flow put; to find vent; to pour out contents. Volcanos bellow ere they disembogue. Young. 

DISEMBOGUEMENT:  The act of disemboguing; discharge. Mease. 

DISEMBOSSOM:  To separate from the bosom. [R.] Young. 

DISEMBOWELMENT:  The act of disemboweling, or state of being disemboweled; evisceration. 

DISEMBOWERED:  Deprived of, or removed from, a bower. [Poetic] Bryant. 

DISEMBRANGLE:  To free from wrangling or litigation. [Obs.] Berkeley. 

DISEMBROIL:  To disentangle; to free from perplexity; to extricate from confusion. Vaillant has disembroiled a history that was lost to the world before his time. Addison. 

DISEMPLOY:  To throw out of employment. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

DISEMPLOYMENT:  The state of being disemployed, or deprived of employment. This glut of leisure and disemployment. Jer. Taylor. 

DISEMPOWER:  To deprive of power; to divest of strength. H. Bushnell. 

DISENABLE:  To disable; to disqualify. The sight of it might damp me and disenable me to speak. State Trials (1640). 

DISENAMOR:  To free from the captivity of love. Shelton. 

DISENCHAINED:  Freed from restraint; unrestrained. [Archaic] E. A. Poe. 

DISENCHANT:  To free from enchantment; to deliver from the power of charms or spells; to free from fascination or delusion. Haste to thy work; a noble stroke or two Ends all the charms, and disenchants the grove. Dryden. 

DISENCHANTER:  One who, or that which, disenchants. 

DISENCHANTMENT:  The act of disenchanting, or state of being disenchanted. Shelton. 

DISENCHARM:  To free from the influence of a charm or spell; to disenchant. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

DISENCLOSE:  See Disinclose. 

DISENCOURAGEMENT:  Discouragement. [Obs.] Spectator. 

DISENCRESE:  To decrease. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISENCRESE:  Decrease. [Obs.] 

DISENCUMBER:  To free from encumbrance, or from anything which clogs, impedes, or obstructs; to disburden. Owen. I have disencumbered myself from rhyme. Dryden. 

DISENCUMBRANCE:  Freedom or deliverance from encumbrance, or anything burdensome or troublesome. Spectator. 

DISENDOW:  To deprive of an endowment, as a church. Gladstone. 

DISENDOWMENT:  The act of depriving of an endowment or endowments. [The] disendowment of the Irish Church. G. B. Smith. 

DISENFRANCHISE:  To disfranchise; to deprive of the rights of a citizen.  -- Dis`en*fran"chise*ment, n. 

DISENGAGE:  To release from that with which anything is engaged, engrossed, involved, or entangled; to extricate; to detach; to set free; to liberate; to clear; as, to disengage one from a party, from broils and controversies, from an oath, promise, or occupation; to disengage the affections a favorite pursuit, the mind from study. To disengage him and the kingdom, great sums were to be borrowed. Milton. Caloric and light must be disengaged during the process. Transl. of Lavoisier.  Syn.  -- To liberate; free; loose; extricate; clear; disentangle; detach; withdraw; wean. 

DISENGAGE:  To release one's self; to become detached; to free one's self. From a friends's grave how soon we disengage! Young. 

DISENGAGED:  Not engaged; free from engagement; at leisure; free from occupation or care; vacant.  -- Dis`en*ga"ged*ness, n. 

DISENGAGING:  Loosing; setting free; detaching. Disengaging machinery. See under Engaging. 

DISENNOBLE:  To deprive of that which ennobles; to degrade. An unworthy behavior degrades and disennobles a man. Guardian. 

DISENROLL:  To erase from a roll or list. [Written also disenrol.] Donne. 

DISENSANITY:  Insanity; folly. [Obs.] What tediosity and disensanity Is here among! Beau. & Fl. 

DISENSHROUDED:  Freed from a shroudlike covering; unveiled. The disenshrouded statue. R. Browning. 

DISENSLAVE:  To free from bondage or slavery; to disenthrall. He shall disenslave and redeem his soul. South. 

DISENTAIL:  To free from entailment. 

DISENTANGLEMENT:  The act of disentangling or clearing from difficulties. Warton. 

DISENTER:  See Disinter. 

DISENTHRALL:  To release from thralldom or slavery; to give freedom to; to disinthrall. [Written also disenthral.] Milton. 

DISENTHRALLMENT:  Liberation from bondage; emancipation; disinthrallment. [Written also disenthralment.] 

DISENTHRONE:  To dethrone; to depose from sovereign authority. Milton. 

DISENTITLE:  To deprive of title or claim. Every ordinary offense does not disentitle a son to the love of his father. South. 

DISENTOMB:  To take out from a tomb; a disinter. 

DISENTRAIL:  To disembowel; to let out or draw forth, as the entrails. [Obs.] As if he thought her soul to disentrail. Spenser. 

DISENTRANCE:  To awaken from a trance or an enchantment. Hudibras. 

DISENTWINE:  To free from being entwined or twisted. Shelley. 

DISEPALOUS:  Having two sepals; two-sepaled. 

DISERT:  Eloquent. [Obs.] 

DISERTITUDE:  Eloquence. [Obs.] 

DISERTY:  Expressly; clearly; eloquently. [Obs.] Holland. 

DISESPOUSE:  To release from espousal or plighted faith. [Poetic] Milton. 

DISESTABLISH:  To unsettle; to break up (anything established); to deprive, as a church, of its connection with the state. M. Arnold. 

DISESTEEM:  Want of esteem; low estimation, inclining to dislike; disfavor; disrepute. Disesteem and contempt of the public affairs. Milton. 

DISESTEEMER:  One who disesteems. Boyle. 

DISESTIMATION:  Disesteem. 

DISEXERCISE:  To deprive of exercise; to leave untrained. [Obs.] By disexercising and blunting our abilities. Milton. 

DISFAME:  Disrepute. [R.] Tennyson. 

DISFANCY:  To dislike. [Obs.] 

DISFASHION:  To disfigure. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

DISFAVORABLE:  Unfavorable. [Obs.] Stow. 

DISFAVORABLY:  Unpropitiously. [Obs.] 

DISFAVORER:  One who disfavors. Bacon. 

DISFEATURE:  To deprive of features; to mar the features of. [R.] 

DISFELLOWSHIP:  To exclude from fellowship; to refuse intercourse with, as an associate. An attempt to disfellowship an evil, but to fellowship the evildoer. Freewill Bapt. Quart. 

DISFIGURATION:  The act of disfiguring, or the state of being disfigured; defacement; deformity; disfigurement. Gauden. 

DISFIGURE:  To mar the figure of; to render less complete, perfect, or beautiful in appearance; to deface; to deform. Disfiguring not God's likeness, but their own. Milton.  Syn.  -- To deface; deform; mar; injure. 

DISFIGURE:  Disfigurement; deformity. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISFIGURER:  One who disfigures. 

DISFLESH:  To reduce the flesh or obesity of. [Obs.] Shelton. 

DISFORESTATION:  The act of clearing land of forests. Daniel. 

DISFORMITY:  Discordance or diversity of form; unlikeness in form. Uniformity or disformity in comparing together the respective figures of bodies. S. Clarke. 

DISFRANCHISE:  To deprive of a franchise or chartered right; to dispossess of the rights of a citizen, or of a particular privilege, as of voting, holding office, etc. Sir William Fitzwilliam was disfranchised. Fabyan (1509). He was partially disfranchised so as to be made incapable of taking part in public affairs. Thirlwall. 

DISFRANCHISEMENT:  The act of disfranchising, or the state disfranchised; deprivation of privileges of citizenship or of chartered immunities. Sentenced first to dismission from the court, and then to disfranchisement and expulsion from the colony. Palfrey. 

DISFRIAR:  To depose or withdraw from the condition of a friar. [Obs.] Many did quickly unnun and disfriar themselves. Fuller. 

DISFROCK:  To unfrock. 

DISFURNISH:  To deprive of that with which anything is furnished (furniture, equipments, etc.); to strip; to render destitute; to divest. I am a thing obscure, disfurnished of All merit, that can raise me higher. Massinger. 

DISFURNISHMENT:  The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished. Daniel. 

DISFURNITURE:  The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished. [Obs.] 

DISFURNITURE:  To disfurnish. [R.] East. 

DISGAGE:  To free from a gage or pledge; to disengage. [Obs.] Holland. 

DISGALLANT:  To deprive of gallantry. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

DISGARLAND:  To strip of a garland. [Poetic] "Thy locks disgarland." Drummond. 

DISGARNISH:  To divest of garniture; to disfurnish; to dismantle. Bp. Hall. 

DISGARRISON:  To deprive of a garrison. Hewyt. 

DISGAVEL:  To deprive of that principal quality of gavelkind tenure by which lands descend equally among all the sons of the tenant; -- said of lands. Burrill. 

DISGEST:  To digest. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DISGESTION:  Digestion. [Obs.] 

DISGLORIFY:  To deprive of glory; to treat with indignity. [R.] Disglorified, blasphemed, and had in scorn. Milton. 

DISGLORY:  Dishonor. [Obs.] To the disglory of God's name. Northbrooke. 

DISGORGE:  To vomit forth what anything contains; to discharge; to make restitution. See where it flows, disgorging at seven mouths Into the sea. Milton. 

DISGORGEMENT:  The act of disgorging; a vomiting; that which is disgorged. Bp. Hall. 

DISGOSPEL:  To be inconsistent with, or act contrary to, the precepts of the gospel; to pervert the gospel. [Obs.] Milton. 

DISGRACEFUL:  Bringing disgrace; causing shame; shameful; dishonorable; unbecoming; as, profaneness is disgraceful to a man.  -- Dis*grace"ful*fy, adv.  -- Dis*grace"ful*ness, n. The Senate have cast you forth disgracefully. B. Jonson. 

DISGRACER:  One who disgraces. 

DISGRACIOUS:  Wanting grace; unpleasing; disagreeable. Shak. 

DISGRACIVE:  Disgracing. [Obs.] Feltham. 

DISGRADATION:  Degradation; a stripping of titles and honors. 

DISGRADE:  To degrade. [Obs.] Foxe. 

DISGRADUATE:  To degrade; to reduce in rank. [Obs.] Tyndale. 

DISGREGATE:  To disperse; to scatter; -- opposite of congregate. [Obs.] 

DISGREGATION:  The process of separation, or the condition of being separate, as of the molecules of a body. 

DISGRUNTLE:  To dissatisfy; to disaffect; to anger. [Colloq.] 

DISGUISEDLY:  In disguise. 

DISGUISEDNESS:  The state of being disguised. 

DISGUISEMENT:  Disguise. [R.] Spenser. 

DISGUISING:  A masque or masquerade. [Obs.] 

DISGUST:  To provoke disgust or strong distaste in; to cause (any one) loathing, as of the stomach; to excite aversion in; to offend the moral taste of; -- often with at, with, or by. To disgust him with the world and its vanities. Prescott. Ærius is expressly declared . . . to have been disgusted at failing. J. H. Newman. Alarmed and disgusted by the proceedings of the convention. Macaulay. 

DISGUST:  Repugnance to what is offensive; aversion or displeasure produced by something loathsome; loathing; strong distaste; -- said primarily of the sickening opposition felt for anything which offends the physical organs of taste; now rather of the analogous repugnance excited by anything extremely unpleasant to the moral taste or higher sensibilities of our nature; as, an act of cruelty may excite disgust. The manner of doing is more consequence than the thing done, and upon that depends the satisfaction or disgust wherewith it is received. Locke. In a vulgar hack writer such oddities would have excited only disgust. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Nausea; loathing; aversion; distaste; dislike; disinclination; abomination. See Dislike. 

DISGUSTFUL:  Provoking disgust; offensive to the taste; exciting aversion; disgusting. That horrible and disgustful situation. Burke. 

DISGUSTFULNESS:  The state of being disgustful. 

DISGUSTING:  That causes disgust; sickening; offensive; revolting.  -- Dis*gust"ing*ly, adv. 

DISHABILITATE:  To disqualify. [R.] 

DISHABILLE:  An undress; a loose, negligent dress; deshabille. They breakfast in dishabille. Smollett. 

DISHABIT:  To dislodge. [Obs.] Those sleeping stones . . . from their fixed beds of lime Had been dishabited. Shak. 

DISHABITED:  Rendered uninhabited. "Dishabited towns." R. Carew. 

DISHABITUATE:  To render unaccustomed. 

DISHALLOW:  To make unholy; to profane. Tennyson. Nor can the unholiness of the priest dishallow the altar. T. Adams. 

DISHARMONIOUS:  Unharmonious; discordant. [Obs.] Hallywell. 

DISHARMONY:  Want of harmony; discord; incongruity. [R.] A disharmony in the different impulses that constitute it [our nature]. Coleridge. 

DISHAUNT:  To leave; to quit; to cease to haunt. Halliwell. 

DISHCLOTH:  A cloth used for washing dishes. 

DISHCLOUT:  A dishcloth. [Obsolescent] 

DISHEART:  To dishearten. [Obs.] 

DISHEARTEN:  To discourage; to deprive of courage and hope; to depress the spirits of; to deject. Regiments . . . utterly disorganized and disheartened. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To dispirit; discourage; depress; deject; deter; terrify. 

DISHEARTENMENT:  Discouragement; dejection; depression of spirits. 

DISHEIR:  To disinherit. [Obs.] Dryden. 

DISHELM:  To deprive of the helmet. [Poetic] Lying stark, Dishelmed and mute, and motionlessly pale. Tennyson. 

DISHERISON:  The act of disheriting, or debarring from inheritance; disinhersion. Bp. Hall. 

DISHERIT:  To disinherit; to cut off, or detain, from the possession or enjoyment of an inheritance. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISHERITANCE:  The act of disinheriting or state of being disinherited; disinheritance. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

DISHERITOR:  One who puts another out of his inheritance. 

DISHEVEL:  To be spread in disorder or hang negligently, as the hair. [R.] Sir T. Herbert. 

DISHEVELE:  Disheveled. [Obs.] Dishevele, save his cap, he rode all bare. Chaucer. 

DISHFUL:  As much as a dish holds when full. 

DISHING:  Dish-shaped; concave. 

DISHONEST:  To disgrace; to dishonor; as, to dishonest a maid. [Obs.] I will no longer dishonest my house. Chapman. 

DISHONESTLY:  In a dishonest manner. 

DISHONOR:  The nonpayment or nonacceptance of commercial paper by the party on whom it is drawn.  Syn.  -- Disgrace; ignominy; shame; censure; reproach; opprobrium. 

DISHONORARY:  Bringing dishonor on; tending to disgrace; lessening reputation. Holmes. 

DISHONORER:  One who dishonors or disgraces; one who treats another indignity. Milton. 

DISHORN:  To deprive of horns; as, to dishorn cattle. "Dishorn the spirit." Shak. 

DISHORSE:  To dismount. Tennyson. 

DISHOUSE:  To deprive of house or home. "Dishoused villagers." James White. 

DISHUMOR:  Ill humor. [Obs.] 

DISHUMOR:  To deprive of humor or desire; to put out of humor. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

DISHWASHER:  A European bird; the wagtail. 

DISHWATER:  Water in which dishes have been washed. "Suds and dishwater." Beau. & Fl. 

DISILLUSION:  The act or process of freeing from an illusion, or the state of being freed therefrom. Lowell. 

DISILLUSION:  To free from an illusion; to disillusionize. 

DISILLUSIONIZE:  To disenchant; to free from illusion. "The bitter disillusionizing experience of postnuptial life." W. Black. 

DISILLUSIONMENT:  The act of freeing from an illusion, or the state of being freed therefrom. 

DISIMBITTER:  To free from bitterness. 

DISIMPARK:  To free from the barriers or restrictions of a park. [R.] Spectator. 

DISIMPASSIONED:  Free from warmth of passion or feeling. 

DISIMPROVE:  To make worse; -- the opposite of improve. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

DISIMPROVE:  To grow worse; to deteriorate. 

DISIMPROVEMENT:  Reduction from a better to a worse state; as, disimprovement of the earth. 

DISINCARCERATE:  To liberate from prison. [R.] Harvey. 

DISINCLINATION:  The state of being disinclined; want of propensity, desire, or affection; slight aversion or dislike; indisposition. Disappointment gave him a disinclination to the fair sex. Arbuthnot. Having a disinclination to books or business. Guardian.  Syn.  -- Unwillingness; disaffection; alienation; dislike; indisposition; distaste; aversion; repugnance. 

DISINCLINE:  To incline away the affections of; to excite a slight aversion in; to indispose; to make unwilling; to alienate. Careful . . . to disincline them from any reverence or affection to the Queen. Clarendon. To social scenes by nature disinclined. Cowper. 

DISINCLOSE:  To free from being inclosed. 

DISINCORPORATE:  Separated from, or not included in, a corporation; disincorporated. Bacon. 

DISINCORPORATION:  Deprivation of the rights and privileges of a corporation. T. Warton. 

DISINFECT:  To free from infectious or contagious matter; to destroy putrefaction; to purify; to make innocuous. When the infectious matter and the infectious matter and the odoriferous matter are one . . . then to deodorize is to disinfect. Ure. 

DISINFECTANT:  That which disinfects; an agent for removing the causes of infection, as chlorine. 

DISINFECTION:  The act of disinfecting; purification from infecting matter. 

DISINFECTOR:  One who, or that which, disinfects; an apparatus for applying disinfectants. 

DISINFLAME:  To divest of flame or ardor. Chapman. 

DISINGENUITY:  Disingenuousness. [Obs.] Clarendon. 

DISINHABITED:  Uninhabited. [Obs.] 

DISINHERISON:  Same as Disherison. Bacon. 

DISINHERITANCE:  The act of disinheriting, or the condition of being; disinherited; disherison. 

DISINHUME:  To disinter. [R.] 

DISINSURE:  To render insecure; to put in danger. [Obs.] Fanshawe. 

DISINTEGRABLE:  Capable of being disintegrated, or reduced to fragments or powder. Argillo-calcite is readily disintegrable by exposure. Kirwan. 

DISINTEGRATE:  To separate into integrant parts; to reduce to fragments or to powder; to break up, or cause to fall to pieces, as a rock, by blows of a hammer, frost, rain, and other mechanical or atmospheric influences. Marlites are not disintegrated by exposure to the atmosphere, at least in six years. Kirwan. 

DISINTEGRATE:  To decompose into integrant parts; as, chalk rapidly disintegrates. 

DISINTEGRATOR:  A machine for grinding or pulverizing by percussion. 

DISINTERESS:  To deprive or rid of interest in, or regard for; to disengage. [Obs.] 

DISINTERESSMENT:  Disinterestedness; impartiality; fairness. [Obs.] Prior. 

DISINTEREST:  Disinterested. [Obs.] The measures they shall walk by shall be disinterest and even. Jer. Taylor. 

DISINTEREST:  To divest of interest or interested motives. [Obs.] Feltham. 

DISINTERESTED:  Not influenced by regard to personal interest or advantage; free from selfish motive; having no relation of interest or feeling; not biased or prejudiced; as, a disinterested decision or judge. The happiness of disinterested sacrifices. Channing.  Syn.  -- Unbiased; impartial; uninterested; indifferent. 

DISINTERESTEDLY:  In a disinterested manner; without bias or prejudice. 

DISINTERESTEDNESS:  The state or quality of being disinterested; impartiality. That perfect disinterestedness and self-devotion of which man seems to be incapable, but which is sometimes found in woman. Macaulay. 

DISINTERESTING:  Uninteresting. [Obs.] "Disinteresting passages." Bp. Warburton. 

DISINTERMENT:  The act of disinterring, or taking out of the earth; exhumation. 

DISINTHRALL:  To free from thralldom; to disenthrall. [Written also disinthral.] 

DISINTHRALLMENT:  A releasing from thralldom or slavery; disenthrallment. [Written also disinthralment.] 

DISINTRICATE:  To disentangle. [R.] "To disintricate the question." Sir W. Hamilton. 

DISINURE:  To render unaccustomed or unfamiliar. We are hindered and disinured . . . towards the true knowledge. Milton. 

DISINVESTITURE:  The act of depriving of investiture. [Obs.] Ogilvie. 

DISINVIGORATE:  To enervate; to weaken. [R.] Sydney Smith. 

DISINVOLVE:  To uncover; to unfold or unroll; to disentangle. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

DISJECTION:  Destruction; dispersion. Bp. Horsley. 

DISJOIN:  To part; to disunite; to separate; to sunder. That marriage, therefore, God himself disjoins. Milton. Never let us lay down our arms against France, till we have utterly disjoined her from the Spanish monarchy. Addison. Windmill Street consisted of disjoined houses. Pennant.  Syn.  -- To disunite; separate; detach; sever; dissever; sunder; disconnect. 

DISJOIN:  To become separated; to part. 

DISJOINT:  Disjointed; unconnected; -- opposed to conjoint. Milton. 

DISJOINT:  Difficult situation; dilemma; strait. [Obs.] "I stand in such disjoint." Chaucer. 

DISJOINT:  To fall in pieces. Shak. 

DISJOINTED:  Separated at the joints; disconnected; incoherent.  -- Dis*joint"ed*ly, adv.  -- Dis*joint"ed*ness, n. 

DISJOINTLY:  In a disjointed state. Sandys. 

DISJUDICATION:  Judgment; discrimination. See Dijudication. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DISJUNCT:  Having the head, thorax, and abdomen separated by a deep constriction. Disjunct tetrachords (Mus.), tetrachords so disposed to each other that the gravest note of the upper is one note higher than the acutest note of the other. 

DISJUNCTIVE:  Pertaining to disjunct tetrachords. "Disjunctive notes." Moore (Encyc. of Music). Disjunctive conjunction (Gram.), one connecting grammatically two words or clauses, expressing at the same time an opposition or separation inherent in the notions or thoughts; as, either, or, neither, nor, but, although, except, lest, etc.  -- Disjunctive proposition, one in which the parts are connected by disjunctive conjunctions; as it is either day or night.  -- Disjunctive syllogism (Logic), one in which the major proposition is disjunctive; as, the earth moves in a circle or an ellipse; but in does not move in a circle, therefore it moves in an ellipse. 

DISJUNCTIVELY:  In a disjunctive manner; separately. Dr. H. More. 

DISJUNCTURE:  The act of disjoining, or state of being disjoined; separation. Fuller. 

DISK:  The circular figure of a celestial body, as seen projected of the heavens.  4. (Biol.)  A circular structure either in plants or animals; as, a blood disk; germinal disk, etc.  5. (Bot.) (a) The whole surface of a leaf. (b) The central part of a radiate compound flower, as in sunflower. (c) A part of the receptacle enlarged or expanded under, or around, or even on top of, the pistil.  6. (Zoöl.) (a) The anterior surface or oral area of coelenterate animals, as of sea anemones. (b) The lower side of the body of some invertebrates, especially when used for locomotion, when it is often called a creeping disk. (c) In owls, the space around the eyes. Disk engine, a form of rotary steam engine.  -- Disk shell (Zoöl.), any species of Discina.  DISK CLUTCH Disk clutch. (Engin.)  A friction clutch in which the gripping surfaces are disks or more or less resemble disks. 

DISKINDNESS:  Unkindness; disservice. [R.] A. Tucker. 

DISKLESS:  Having no disk; appearing as a point and not expanded into a disk, as the image of a faint star in a telescope. 

DISLADE:  To unlade. [Obs.] Heywood. 

DISLEAL:  Disloyal; perfidious. [Obs.] "Disleal knight." Spenser. 

DISLEAVE:  To deprive of leaves. [R.] The cankerworms that annually that disleaved the elms. Lowell. 

DISLIKEFUL:  Full of dislike; disaffected; malign; disagreeable. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISLIKELIHOOD:  The want of likelihood; improbability. Sir W. Scott. 

DISLIKEN:  To make unlike; to disguise. [Obs.] Shak. 

DISLIKENESS:  Unlikeness. [R.] Locke. 

DISLIKER:  One who dislikes or disrelishes. 

DISLIMB:  To tear limb from limb; to dismember. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DISLIMN:  To efface, as a picture. [Obs.] Shak. 

DISLINK:  To unlink; to disunite; to separate. [R.] Tennyson. 

DISLIVE:  To deprive of life. [Obs.] Telemachus dislived Amphimedon. Chapman. 

DISLOCATE:  To displace; to put out of its proper place. Especially, of a bone: To remove from its normal connections with a neighboring bone; to put out of joint; to move from its socket; to disjoint; as, to dislocate your bones. Shak. After some time the strata on all sides of the globe were dislocated. Woodward. And thus the archbishop's see, dislocated or out of joint for a time, was by the hands of his holiness set right again. Fuller. 

DISLOCATE:  Dislocated. Montgomery. 

DISLOCATION:  The displacement of parts of rocks or portions of strata from the situation which they originally occupied. Slips, faults, and the like, are dislocations.  3. (Surg.)  The act of dislocating, or putting out of joint; also, the condition of being thus displaced. 

DISLODGE:  To go from a place of rest. [R.] Where Light and Darkness in perpetual round Lodge and dislodge by turns. Milton. 

DISLODGE:  Dwelling apart; separation. [R.] 

DISLODGMENT:  The act or process of dislodging, or the state of being dislodged. 

DISLOIGN:  To put at a distance; to remove. [Obs.] Low-looking dales, disloigned from common gaze. Spenser. 

DISLOYAL:  Not loyal; not true to a sovereign or lawful superior, or to the government under which one lives; false where allegiance is due; faithless; as, a subject disloyal to the king; a husband disloyal to his wife. Without a thought disloyal. Mrs. Browning.  Syn.  -- Disobedient; faithless; untrue; treacherous; perfidious; dishonest; inconstant; disaffected. 

DISLOYALLY:  In a disloyal manner. 

DISLOYALTY:  Want of loyalty; lack of fidelity; violation of allegiance. 

DISMAIL:  To divest of coat of mail. Spenser. 

DISMALLY:  In a dismal manner; gloomily; sorrowfully; uncomfortably. 

DISMALNESS:  The quality of being dismal; gloominess. 

DISMAN:  To unman. [Obs.] Feltham. 

DISMARCH:  To march away. [Obs.] 

DISMARRY:  To free from the bonds of marriage; to divorce. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. 

DISMARSHAL:  To disarrange; to derange; to put in disorder. [R.] Drummond. 

DISMASK:  To divest of a mask. Shak. 

DISMAST:  To deprive of a mast of masts; to break and carry away the masts from; as, a storm dismasted the ship. 

DISMASTMENT:  The act of dismasting; the state of being dismasted. [R.] Marshall. 

DISMAW:  To eject from the maw; to disgorge. [R.] Shelton. 

DISMAY:  To take dismay or fright; to be filled with dismay. [Obs.] Shak. 

DISMAYEDNESS:  A state of being dismayed; dejection of courage; dispiritedness. 

DISMAYFUL:  Terrifying. Spenser. 

DISME:  A tenth; a tenth part; a tithe. Ayliffe. 

DISMEMBERMENT:  The act of dismembering, or the state of being dismembered; cutting in piece; m The Castilians would doubtless have resented the dismemberment of the unwieldy body of which they formed the head. Macaulay. 

DISMETTLED:  Destitute of mettle, that is, or fire or spirit. [R.] Llewellyn. 

DISMISS:  Dismission. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 

DISMISSAL:  Dismission; discharge. Officeholders were commanded faithfully to enforce it, upon pain of immediate dismissal. Motley. 

DISMISSIVE:  Giving dismission. 

DISMORTGAGE:  To redeem from mortgage. [Obs.] Howell. 

DISMOUNT:  To take down, or apart, as a machine.  4. To throw or remove from the carriage, or from that on which a thing is mounted; to break the carriage or wheels of, and render useless; to deprive of equipments or mountings; -- said esp. of artillery. 

DISNATURALIZE:  To make alien; to deprive of the privileges of birth. Locke. 

DISNATURED:  Deprived or destitute of natural feelings; unnatural. [Obs.] Shak. 

DISOBEDIENCE:  Neglect or refusal to obey; violation of a command or prohibition. He is undutiful to him other actions, and lives in open disobedience. Tillotson. 

DISOBEDIENCY:  Disobedience. 

DISOBEDIENTLY:  In a disobedient manner. 

DISOBEISANCE:  Disobedience. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

DISOBEISANT:  Disobedient. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISOBEY:  Not to obey; to neglect or refuse to obey (a superior or his commands, the laws, etc.); to transgress the commands of (one in authority); to violate, as an order; as, refractory children disobey their parents; men disobey their Maker and the laws. Not to disobey her lord's behest. Tennyson. 

DISOBEY:  To refuse or neglect to obey; to violate commands; to be disobedient. He durst not know how to disobey. Sir P. Sidney. 

DISOBEYER:  One who disobeys. 

DISOBLIGATORY:  Releasing from obligation. "Disobligatory power." Charles I. 

DISOBLIGEMENT:  Release from obligation. [Obs.] 

DISOBLIGER:  One who disobliges. 

DISOCCIDENT:  To turn away from the west; to throw out of reckoning as to longitude. [Obs.] Marvell. 

DISOCCUPATION:  The state of being unemployed; want of occupation. [R.] 

DISOPINION:  Want or difference of belief; disbelief. [Obs.] Bp. Reynolds. 

DISOPPILATE:  To open. [Obs.] Holland. 

DISORB:  To throw out of the proper orbit; to unsphere. Shak. 

DISORD:  Disorder. [Obs.] Holland. 

DISORDEINED:  Inordinate; irregular; vicious. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISORDERLINESS:  The state of being disorderly. 

DISORDERLY:  Offensive to good morals and public decency; notoriously offensive; as, a disorderly house.  Syn.  -- Irregular; immethodical; confused; tumultuous; inordinate; intemperate; unruly; lawless; vicious. 

DISORDERLY:  In a disorderly manner; without law or order; irregularly; confusedly. Withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly. 2 Thess. iii. 6. Savages fighting disorderly with stones. Sir W. Raleigh. 

DISORDINANCE:  Disarrangement; disturbance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISORDINATE:  Inordinate; disorderly. [Obs.] "With disordinate gestures." Prynne. 

DISORDINATELY:  Inordinately. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

DISORDINATION:  The state of being in disorder; derangement; confusion. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DISORGANIZE:  To destroy the organic structure or regular system of (a government, a society, a party, etc.); to break up (what is organized); to throw into utter disorder; to disarrange. Lyford . . . attempted to disorganize the church. Eliot (1809). 

DISORGANIZER:  One who disorganizes or causes disorder and confusion. 

DISORIENT:  To turn away from the cast; to confuse as to which way is east; to cause to lose one's bearings. [R.] Bp. Warburton. 

DISORIENTATE:  To turn away from the east, or (figuratively) from the right or the truth. [R.] 

DISOWNMENT:  Act of disowning. [R.] 

DISOXIDATE:  To deoxidate; to deoxidize. [R.] 

DISOXIDATION:  Deoxidation. [R.] 

DISOXYGENATE:  To deprive of oxygen; to deoxidize. [R.] 

DISOXYGENATION:  Deoxidation. [R.] 

DISPACE:  To roam. [Obs.] In this fair plot dispacing to and fro. Spenser. 

DISPAIR:  To separate (a pair). [R.] I have . . . dispaired two doves. Beau. & Fl. 

DISPAND:  To spread out; to expand. [Obs.] Bailey. 

DISPANSION:  Act of dispanding, or state of being dispanded. [Obs.] 

DISPARADISED:  Removed from paradise. [R.] Cockeram. 

DISPARAGE:  Inequality in marriage; marriage with an inferior. [Obs.] Chaucer. Dissuaded her from such a disparage. Spenser. 

DISPARAGER:  One who disparages or dishonors; one who vilifies or disgraces. 

DISPARAGINGLY:  In a manner to disparage or dishonor; slightingly. 

DISPARATE:  Pertaining to two coördinate species or divisions. 

DISPARATES:  Things so unequal or unlike that they can not be compared with each other. 

DISPARITION:  Act of disappearing; disappearance. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DISPARITY:  Inequality; difference in age, rank, condition, or excellence; dissimilitude; -- followed by between, in, of, as to, etc.; as, disparity in, or of, years; a disparity as to color. The disparity between God and his intelligent creatures. I. Taylor. The disparity of numbers was not such as ought to cause any uneasiness. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Inequality; unlikeness; dissimilitude; disproportion; difference. 

DISPARKLE:  To scatter abroad. [Obs.] Holland. 

DISPART:  To part asunder; to divide; to separate; to sever; to rend; to rive or split; as, disparted air; disparted towers. [Archaic] Them in twelve troops their captain did dispart. Spenser. The world will be whole, and refuses to be disparted. Emerson. 

DISPART:  To separate, to open; to cleave. 

DISPART:  The difference between the thickness of the metal at the mouth and at the breech of a piece of ordnance. On account of the dispart, the line of aim or line of metal, which is in a plane passing through the axis of the gun, always makes a small angle with the axis. Eng. Cys.  2. (Gun.)  A piece of metal placed on the muzzle, or near the trunnions, on the top of a piece of ordnance, to make the line of sight parallel to the axis of the bore; -- called also dispart sight, and muzzle sight. 

DISPART:  To make allowance for the dispart in (a gun), when taking aim. Every gunner, before he shoots, must truly dispart his piece. Lucar.  2. (Gun.)  To furnish with a dispart sight. 

DISPASSION:  Freedom from passion; an undisturbed state; apathy. Sir W. Temple. 

DISPASSIONED:  Free from passion; dispassionate. [R.] "Dispassioned men." Donne. 

DISPATCH:  To make haste; to conclude an affair; to finish a matter of business. They have dispatched with Pompey. Shak. 

DISPATCHER:  One who dispatches. 

DISPATCHFUL:  Bent on haste; intent on speedy execution of business or any task; indicating haste; quick; as, dispatchful looks. Milton. 

DISPATCHMENT:  The act of dispatching. [Obs.] State Trials (1529). 

DISPATHY:  Lack of sympathy; want of passion; apathy. [R.] Many discrepancies and some dispathies between us. Southey. 

DISPAUPER:  To deprive of the claim of a pauper to public support; to deprive of the privilege of suing in forma pauperis. 

DISPAUPERIZE:  To free a state of pauperism, or from paupers. J. S. Mill. 

DISPEED:  To send off with speed; to dispatch. [Obs.] Knolles. Then they dispeeded themselves of the Cid and of their mother-in-law, DoSouthey. 

DISPEL:  To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clear away; to banish; to dissipate; as, to dispel a cloud, vapors, cares, doubts, illusions. [Satan] gently raised their fainting courage, and dispelled their fears. Milton. I saw myself the lambent easy light Gild the brown horror, and dispel the night. Dryden. 

DISPENCE:  See Dispense. [Obs.] 

DISPEND:  To spend; to lay out; to expend. [Obs.] Spenser. Able to dispend yearly twenty pounds and above. Fuller. 

DISPENDER:  One who dispends or expends; a steward. [Obs.] Wyclif (1 Cor. iv. 1). 

DISPENSABLENESS:  Quality of being dispensable. 

DISPENSATION:  a system of principles, promises, and rules ordained and administered; scheme; economy; as, the Patriarchal, Mosaic, and Christian dispensations. Neither are God's methods or intentions different in his dispensations to each private man. Rogers.  3. The relaxation of a law in a particular case; permission to do something forbidden, or to omit doing something enjoined; specifically, in the Roman Catholic Church, exemption from some ecclesiastical law or obligation to God which a man has incurred of his own free will (oaths, vows, etc.). A dispensation was obtained to enable Dr. Barrow to marry. Ward. 

DISPENSATIVE:  Granting dispensation. 

DISPENSATIVELY:  By dispensation. Wotton. 

DISPENSATOR:  A distributer; a dispenser. Bacon. 

DISPENSATORILY:  In the way of dispensation; dispensatively. 

DISPENSATORY:  Granting, or authorized to grant, dispensations. "Dispensatory power." Bp. Rainbow. 

DISPENSATORY:  A book or medicinal formulary containing a systematic description of drugs, and of preparations made from them. It is usually, but not always, distinguished from a pharmacopoeia in that it issued by private parties, and not by an official body or by government. 

DISPENSE:  Dispensation; exemption. [Obs.] 

DISPENSE:  Expense; profusion; outlay. [Obs.] It was a vault built for great dispense. Spenser. 

DISPENSER:  One who, or that which, dispenses; a distributer; as, a dispenser of favors. 

DISPEOPLE:  To deprive of inhabitants; to depopulate. Leave the land dispeopled and desolate. Sir T. More. A certain island long before dispeopled . . . by sea rivers. Milton. 

DISPEOPLER:  One who, or that which, dispeoples; a depopulator. Gay. 

DISPERGE:  To sprinkle. [Obs.] 

DISPERMOUS:  Containing only two seeds; two-seeded. 

DISPERPLE:  To scatter; to sprinkle. [Obs.] Odorous water was Disperpled lightly on my head and neck. Chapman. 

DISPERSAL:  The act or result of dispersing or scattering; dispersion. Darwin. 

DISPERSED:  Scattered.  -- Dis*pers"ed*ly, adv.  -- Dis*pers"ed*ness, n. Dispersed harmony (Mus.), harmony in which the tones composing the chord are widely separated, as by an octave or more. 

DISPERSENESS:  Dispersedness. [Obs.] 

DISPERSER:  One that disperses. 

DISPERSION:  The separation of light into its different colored rays, arising from their different refrangibilities. Dispersion of the optic axes (Crystallog.), the separation of the optic axes in biaxial crystals, due to the fact that the axial angle has different values for the different colors of the spectrum. 

DISPERSIVE:  Tending to disperse. Dispersive power (Opt.), the relative effect of a material in separating the different rays of light by refraction, as when the substance is formed into a prism.  -- Dis*pers"ive*ness, n. 

DISPERSONATE:  To deprive of personality or individuality. [R.] We multiply; we dispersonate ourselves. Hare. 

DISPIRITED:  Depressed in spirits; disheartened; daunted.  -- Dis*pir"it*ed*ly, adv.  -- Dis*pir"it*ed, n. 

DISPIRITMENT:  Depression of spirits; discouragement. [R.] Procter, in evident distress and dispiritment, was waiting the slow conclusion of this. Carlyle. 

DISPITEOUS:  Full of despite; cruel; spiteful; pitiless. Spenser.  -- Dis*pit"e*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

DISPLACEABLE:  Capable of being displaced. 

DISPLACEMENT:  The process of extracting soluble substances from organic material and the like, whereby a quantity of saturated solvent is displaced, or removed, for another quantity of the solvent. Piston displacement (Mech.), the volume of the space swept through, or weight of steam, water, etc., displaced, in a given time, by the piston of a steam engine or pump. 

DISPLACENCY:  Want of complacency or gratification; envious displeasure; dislike. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DISPLACER:  The funnel part of the apparatus for solution by displacement. 

DISPLANTATION:  The act of displanting; removal; displacement. Sir W. Raleigh. 

DISPLAT:  To untwist; to uncurl; to unplat. [Obs.] Hakewill. 

DISPLAY:  To extend the front of (a column), bringing it into line. Farrow.  3. To spread before the view; to show; to exhibit to the sight, or to the mind; to make manifest. His statement . . . displays very clearly the actual condition of the army. Burke.  4. To make an exhibition of; to set in view conspicuously or ostentatiously; to exhibit for the sake of publicity; to parade. Proudly displaying the insignia of their order. Prescott.  5. (Print.)  To make conspicuous by large or prominent type.  6. To discover; to descry. [Obs.] And from his seat took pleasure to display The city so adorned with towers. Chapman.  Syn.  -- To exhibit; show; manifest; spread out; parade; expand; flaunt. 

DISPLAY:  To make a display; to act as one making a show or demonstration. Shak. 

DISPLAYED:  With wings expanded; -- said of a bird of pray, esp. an eagle.  3. (Print.)  Set with lines of prominent type interspersed, to catch the eye. 

DISPLAYER:  One who, or that which, displays. 

DISPLE:  To discipline; to correct. [Obs.] And bitter Penance, with an iron whip, Was wont him once to disple every day. Spenser. 

DISPLEASANCE:  Displeasure; discontent; annoyance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISPLEASANT:  Unpleasing; offensive; unpleasant. [Obs.] Speed.  -- Dis*pleas"ant*ly, adv. [Obs.] Strype.  -- Dis*pleas"ant*ness, n. [Obs.] 

DISPLEASE:  To give displeasure or offense. [Obs.] 

DISPLEASEDLY:  With displeasure. [R.] 

DISPLEASEDNESS:  Displeasure. [R.] South. 

DISPLEASER:  One who displeases. 

DISPLEASING:  Causing displeasure or dissatisfaction; offensive; disagreeable.  -- Dis*pleas"ing*ly, adv.  -- Dis*pleas"ing*ness, n. Locke. 

DISPLEASURE:  To displease. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DISPLENISH:  To deprive or strip, as a house of furniture, or a barn of stock. [Scot.]  DISPLICENCE; DISPLICENCY Dis"pli*cence, Dis"pli*cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. displicentia. See Displacency.]  Dislike; dissatisfaction; discontent. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

DISPLODE:  To discharge; to explode. In posture to displode their second tire Of thunder. Milton. 

DISPLODE:  To burst with a loud report; to explode. "Disploding engines." Young. 

DISPLOSION:  Explosion. The vast displosion dissipates the clouds. Young. 

DISPLOSIVE:  Explosive. 

DISPLUME:  To strip of, or as of, a plume, or plumes; to deprive of decoration; to dishonor; to degrade. Displumed, degraded, and metamorphosed. Burke. 

DISPOLINE:  One of several isomeric organic bases of the quinoline series of alkaloids. 

DISPOND:  See Despond. 

DISPONDEE:  A double spondee; a foot consisting of four long syllables. 

DISPONE:  To dispose.  2. To dispose of. Chaucer.  3. (Scots Law)  To make over, or convey, legally. He has disponed . . . the whole estate. Sir W. Scott. 

DISPONEE:  The person to whom any property is legally conveyed. 

DISPONER:  One who legally transfers property from himself to another. 

DISPONGE:  To sprinkle, as with water from a sponge. [Poetic & Rare] [Written also dispunge.] O sovereign mistress of true melancholy, The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me. Shak. 

DISPOPE:  To refuse to consider as pope; to depose from the popedom. One whom they disposed. Tennyson. 

DISPOROUS:  Having two spores. 

DISPORT:  Play; sport; pastime; diversion; playfulness. Milton. 

DISPORT:  To play; to wanton; to move in gayety; to move lightly and without restraint; to amuse one's self. Where light disports in ever mingling dyes. Pope. Childe Harold basked him in the noontide sun, Disporting there like any other fly. Byron. 

DISPORTMENT:  Act of disporting; diversion; play. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

DISPOSABLE:  Subject to disposal; free to be used or employed as occasion may require; not assigned to any service or use. The great of this kingdom . . . has easily afforded a disposable surplus. Burke. 

DISPOSE:  To bargain; to make terms. [Obs.] She had disposed with Cæsar. Shak. 

DISPOSEDNESS:  The state of being disposed or inclined; inclination; propensity. [R.] 

DISPOSEMENT:  Disposal. [Obs.] Goodwin. 

DISPOSER:  One who, or that which, disposes; a regulator; a director; a bestower. Absolute lord and disposer of all things. Barrow. 

DISPOSINGLY:  In a manner to dispose. 

DISPOSITED:  Disposed. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

DISPOSITIONAL:  Pertaining to disposition. 

DISPOSITIONED:  Having (such) a disposition; -- used in compounds; as, well- dispositioned. 

DISPOSITIVELY:  In a dispositive manner; by natural or moral disposition. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. Do dispositively what Moses is recorded to have done literally, . . . break all the ten commandments at once. Boyle. 

DISPOSITOR:  The planet which is lord of the sign where another planet is. [Obs.] Crabb. 

DISPOSSESS:  To put out of possession; to deprive of the actual occupancy of, particularly of land or real estate; to disseize; to eject; -- usually followed by of before the thing taken away; as, to dispossess a king of his crown. Usurp the land, and dispossess the swain. Goldsmith. 

DISPOSSESSION:  The putting out of possession, wrongfully or otherwise, of one who is in possession of a freehold, no matter in what title; -- called also ouster. 

DISPOSSESSOR:  One who dispossesses. Cowley. 

DISPOST:  To eject from a post; to displace. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode). 

DISPRAISABLE:  Blamable. [R.] 

DISPRAISE:  To withdraw praise from; to notice with disapprobation or some degree of censure; to disparage; to blame. Dispraising the power of his adversaries. Chaucer. I dispraised him before the wicked, that the wicked might not fall in love with him. Shak. 

DISPRAISE:  The act of dispraising; detraction; blame censure; reproach; disparagement. Dryden. In praise and in dispraise the same. Tennyson. 

DISPRAISER:  One who blames or dispraises. 

DISPRAISINGLY:  By way of dispraise. 

DISPREAD:  To spread abroad, or different ways; to spread apart; to open; as, the sun dispreads his beams. Spenser. 

DISPREAD:  To extend or expand itself. [R.] While tyrant Hdispreading through the sky. Thomson. 

DISPREADER:  One who spreads abroad. Dispreaders both of vice and error. Milton. 

DISPREJUDICE:  To free from prejudice. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

DISPREPARE:  To render unprepared. [Obs.] Hobbes. 

DISPRINCE:  To make unlike a prince. [R.] For I was drench'd with ooze, and torn with briers, . . . And, all one rag, disprinced from head to heel. Tennyson. 

DISPRISON:  To let loose from prison, to set all liberty. [R.] Bulwer. 

DISPRIVILEGE:  To deprive of a privilege or privileges. [R.] 

DISPRIZE:  To do preciate. [R.] Cotton (Ode to Lydia). 

DISPROFESS:  To renounce the profession or pursuit of. His arms, which he had vowed to disprofess. Spenser. 

DISPROFIT:  Loss; damage. Foxe. 

DISPROFIT:  To be, or to cause to be, without profit or benefit. [Obs. or Archaic] Bale. 

DISPROFITABLE:  Unprofitable. [Obs.] 

DISPROOF:  A proving to be false or erroneous; confutation; refutation; as, to offer evidence in disproof of a statement. I need not offer anything farther in support of one, or in disproof of the other. Rogers. 

DISPROPERTY:  To cause to be no longer property; to dispossess of. [R.] Shak. 

DISPROPORTION:  To make unsuitable in quantity, form, or fitness to an end; to violate symmetry in; to mismatch; to join unfitly. To shape my legs of an unequal size; To disproportion me in every part. Shak. A degree of strength altogether disproportioned to the extent of its territory. Prescott. 

DISPROPORTIONABLE:  Disproportional; unsuitable in form, size, quantity, or adaptation; disproportionate; inadequate.  -- Dis`pro*por"tion*a*ble*ness, n. Hammond.  -- Dis`pro*por"tion*a*bly, adv. 

DISPROPORTIONAL:  Not having due proportion to something else; not having proportion or symmetry of parts; unsuitable in form, quantity or value; inadequate; unequal; as, a disproportional limb constitutes deformity in the body; the studies of youth should not be disproportional to their understanding. 

DISPROPORTIONALITY:  The state of being disproportional. Dr. H. More. 

DISPROPORTIONALLY:  In a disproportional manner; unsuitably in form, quantity, or value; unequally. 

DISPROPORTIONATE:  Not proportioned; unsymmetrical; unsuitable to something else in bulk, form, value, or extent; out of proportion; inadequate; as, in a perfect body none of the limbs are disproportionate; it is wisdom not to undertake a work disproportionate means.  -- Dis`pro*por"tion*ate*ly, adv.  -- Dis`pro*por"tion*ate*ness, n. 

DISPROPRIATE:  To cancel the appropriation of; to disappropriate. [R.] 

DISPROVABLE:  Capable of being disproved or refuted. Boyle. 

DISPROVAL:  Act of disproving; disproof. [R.] 

DISPROVER:  One who disproves or confutes. 

DISPROVIDE:  Not to provide; to fail to provide. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DISPUNCT:  Wanting in punctilious respect; discourteous. [Obs.] That were dispunct to the ladies. B. Jonson. 

DISPUNCT:  To expunge. [Obs.] Foxe. 

DISPUNGE:  To expunge; to erase. [Obs.] 

DISPUNGE:  See Disponge. [Obs.] 

DISPUNISHABLE:  Without penal restraint; not punishable. [R.] Swift. 

DISPURPOSE:  To dissuade; to frustrate; as, to dispurpose plots. [R.] A. Brewer. 

DISPURSE:  To disburse. [Obs.] Shak. 

DISPURVEY:  To disfurnish; to strip. [Obs.] Heywood. 

DISPURVEYANCE:  Want of provisions; [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISPUTABLENESS:  State of being disputable. 

DISPUTACITY:  Proneness to dispute. [Obs.] Bp. Ward. 

DISPUTANT:  Disputing; engaged in controversy. Milton. 

DISPUTANT:  One who disputes; one who argues A singularly eager, acute, and pertinacious disputant. Macaulay. 

DISPUTATIOUS:  Inclined to dispute; apt to civil or controvert; characterized by dispute; as, a disputatious person or temper. The Christian doctrine of a future life was no recommendation of the new religion to the wits and philosophers of that disputations period. Buckminster. -- Dis`pu*ta"tious*ly, adv.  -- Dis`pu*ta"tious*ness, n. 

DISPUTATIVE:  Disposed to dispute; inclined to cavil or to reason in opposition; as, a disputative temper. I. Watts. 

DISPUTE:  To contend in argument; to argue against something maintained, upheld, or claimed, by another; to discuss; to reason; to debate; to altercate; to wrangle. Therefore disputed [reasoned, Rev. Ver .] he in synagogue with the Jews. Acts xvii. 17. 

DISPUTELESS:  Admitting no dispute; incontrovertible. Bailey. 

DISPUTER:  One who disputes, or who is given to disputes; a controvertist. Where is the disputer of this world 1 Cor. i. 20. 

DISPUTISON:  Dispute; discussion. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISQUANTITY:  To diminish the quantity of; to lessen. [Obs.] Shak. 

DISQUIET:  Deprived of quiet; impatient; restless; uneasy. [R.] Shak. 

DISQUIET:  Want of quiet; want of tranquility in body or mind; uneasiness; restlessness; disturbance; anxiety. Swift. 

DISQUIET:  To render unquiet; to deprive of peace, rest, or tranquility; to make uneasy or restless; to disturb. Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted within me Ps. xlii. 11. As quiet as these disquieted times will permit. Sir W. Scott.  Syn.  -- To harass; disturb; vex; fret; excite; agitate. 

DISQUIETAL:  The act of disquieting; a state of disquiet. [Obs.] [It] roars and strives 'gainst its disquietal. Dr. H. More. 

DISQUIETER:  One who, or that which, disquiets, or makes uneasy; a disturber. 

DISQUIETFUL:  Producing inquietude or uneasiness. [R.] Barrow. 

DISQUIETIVE:  Tending to disquiet. [R.] 

DISQUIETLY:  In a disquiet manner; uneasily; as, he rested disquietly that night. [R.] Wiseman. 

DISQUIETMENT:  State of being disquieted; uneasiness; harassment. [R.] Hopkins. 

DISQUIETNESS:  Disturbance of quiet in body or mind; restlessness; uneasiness. Hooker. 

DISQUIETOUS:  Causing uneasiness. [R.] So distasteful and disquietous to a number of men. Milton. 

DISQUIETTUDE:  Want of peace or tranquility; uneasiness; disturbance; agitation; anxiety. Fears and disquietude, and unavoidable anxieties of mind. Abp. Sharp. 

DISQUISITION:  A formal or systematic inquiry into, or discussion of, any subject; a full examination or investigation of a matter, with the arguments and facts bearing upon it; elaborate essay; dissertation. For accurate research or grave disquisition he was not well qualified. Macaulay. 

DISQUISITIONAL:  Pertaining to disquisition; of the nature of disquisition. 

DISQUISITIONARY:  Pertaining to disquisition; disquisitional. 

DISQUISITIVE:  Relating to disquisition; fond discussion or investigation; examining; inquisitive. 

DISQUISITORIAL:  Disquisitory. 

DISQUISITORY:  Of or pertaining to disquisition; disquisitive. Ed. Rev. 

DISRANGE:  To disarrange. [Obs.] Wood. 

DISRATE:  To reduce to a lower rating or rank; to degrade. Marryat. 

DISRAY:  of Disarray. [Obs.] Holland. 

DISREALIZE:  To divest of reality; to make uncertain. [Obs.] Udall. 

DISREGARD:  Not to regard; to pay no heed to; to omit to take notice of; to neglect to observe; to slight as unworthy of regard or notice; as, to disregard the admonitions of conscience. Studious of good, man disregarded fame. Blackmore. 

DISREGARD:  The act of disregarding, or the state of being disregarded; intentional neglect; omission of notice; want of attention; slight. The disregard of experience. Whewell. 

DISREGARDER:  One who disregards. 

DISREGARDFUL:  Neglect; negligent; heedless; regardless. 

DISREGARDFULLY:  Negligently; heedlessly. 

DISREMEMBER:  To fail to remember; to forget. [Obs. or Archaic] 

DISREPAIR:  A state of being in bad condition, and wanting repair. The fortifications were ancient and in disrepair. Sir W. Scott. 

DISREPUTABILITY:  The state of being disreputable. [R.] 

DISREPUTABLE:  Not reputable; of bad repute; not in esteem; dishonorable; disgracing the reputation; tending to bring into disesteem; as, it is disreputable to associate familiarly with the mean, the lewd, and the profane. Why should you think that conduct disreputable in priests which you probably consider as laudable in yourself Bp. Watson.  Syn.  -- Dishonorable; discreditable; low; mean; disgraceful; shameful. 

DISREPUTABLY:  In a disreputable manner. 

DISREPUTATION:  Loss or want of reputation or good name; dishonor; disrepute; disesteem. "A disreputation of piety." Jer. Taylor. 

DISREPUTE:  Loss or want of reputation; ill character; disesteem; discredit. At the beginning of the eighteenth century astrology fell into general disrepute. Sir W. Scott.  Syn.  -- Disesteem; discredit; dishonor; disgrace. 

DISREPUTE:  To bring into disreputation; to hold in dishonor. [R.] More inclined to love them tan to disrepute them. Jer. Taylor. 

DISRESPECT:  Want of respect or reverence; disesteem; incivility; discourtesy. Impatience of bearing the least affront or disrespect. Pope. 

DISRESPECT:  To show disrespect to. We have disrespected and slighted God. Comber. 

DISRESPECTABILITY:  Want of respectability. Thackeray. 

DISRESPECTABLE:  Not respectable; disreputable. M. Arnold. 

DISRESPECTER:  One who disrespects. 

DISRESPECTFUL:  Wanting in respect; manifesting disesteem or lack of respect; uncivil; as, disrespectful behavior.  -- Dis`re*spect"ful*ly, adv.  -- Dis`re*spect"ful*ness, n. 

DISRESPECTIVE:  Showing want of respect; disrespectful. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DISREVERENCE:  To treat irreverently or with disrespect. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

DISROBE:  To divest of a robe; to undress; figuratively, to strip of covering; to divest of that which clothes or decorates; as, autumn disrobes the fields of verdure. Two great peers were disrobed of their glory. Sir H. Wotton. 

DISROBER:  One who, or that which, disrobes. 

DISROOF:  To unroof. [R.] Carlyle. 

DISROOT:  To tear up the roots of, or by the roots; hence, to tear from a foundation; to uproot. A piece of ground disrooted from its situation by subterraneous inundations. Goldsmith. 

DISROUT:  To put to rout. Taylor (1630). 

DISRUDDER:  To deprive of the rudder, as a ship. 

DISRULILY:  In a disorderly manner. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

DISRULY:  Unruly; disorderly. [Obs.] 

DISRUPT:  Rent off; torn asunder; severed; disrupted. 

DISRUPT:  To break asunder; to rend. Thomson. 

DISRUPTION:  The act or rending asunder, or the state of being rent asunder or broken in pieces; breach; rent; dilaceration; rupture; as, the disruption of rocks in an earthquake; disruption of a state. 

DISRUPTIVE:  Causing, or tending to cause, disruption; caused by disruption; breaking through; bursting; as, the disruptive discharge of an electrical battery. Nichol. 

DISRUPTURE:  Disruption. [R.] Jefferson. 

DISSATISFACTION:  The state of being dissatisfied, unsatisfied, or discontented; uneasiness proceeding from the want of gratification, or from disappointed wishes and expectations. The ambitious man has little happiness, but is subject to much uneasiness and dissatisfaction. Addison.  Syn.  -- Discontent; discontentment; displeasure; disapprobation; distaste; dislike. 

DISSATISFACTORY:  Causing dissatisfaction; unable to give content; unsatisfactory; displeasing. To have reduced the different qualifications in the different States to one uniform rule, would probably have been as dissatisfactory to some of the States, as difficult for the Convention. A. Hamilton. -- Dis*sat`is*fac"to*ri*ness, n. 

DISSATISFY:  To render unsatisfied or discontented; to excite uneasiness in by frustrating wishes or expectations; to displease by the want of something requisite; as, to be dissatisfied with one's fortune. The dissatisfied factions of the autocracy. Bancroft. 

DISSEAT:  To unseat. [R.] Shak. 

DISSECT:  To divide into separate parts; to cut in pieces; to separate and expose the parts of, as an animal or a plant, for examination and to show their structure and relations; to anatomize.  2. To analyze, for the purposes of science or criticism; to divide and examine minutely. This paragraph . . . I have dissected for a sample. Atterbury. 

DISSECTED:  Cut deeply into many lobes or divisions; as, a dissected leaf. 

DISSECTIBLE:  Capable of being dissected, or separated by dissection. Paley. 

DISSECTOR:  One who dissects; an anatomist. 

DISSEIZE:  To deprive of seizin or possession; to dispossess or oust wrongfully (one in freehold possession of land); -- followed by of; as, to disseize a tenant of his freehold. [Written also disseise.] Which savage beasts strive as eagerly to keep and hold those golden mines, as the Arimaspians to disseize them thereof. Holland. 

DISSEIZEE:  A person disseized, or put out of possession of an estate unlawfully; -- correlative to disseizor. [Written also disseisee.] 

DISSEIZIN:  The act of disseizing; an unlawful dispossessing and ouster of a person actually seized of the freehold. [Written also disseisin.] Blackstone. 

DISSEIZOR:  One who wrongfully disseizes, or puts another out of possession of a freehold. [Written also disseisor.] Blackstone. 

DISSEIZORESS:  A woman disseizes. 

DISSEIZURE:  Disseizin. Speed. 

DISSEMBLANCE:  Want of resemblance; dissimilitude. [R.] Osborne. 

DISSEMBLANCE:  The act or art of dissembling; dissimulation. [Obs.] 

DISSEMBLE:  To conceal the real fact, motives, He that hateth dissembleth with his lips. Prov. xxvi. 24. He [an enemy] dissembles when he assumes an air of friendship. C. J. Smith. 

DISSEMBLER:  One who dissembles; one who conceals his opinions or dispositions under a false appearance; a hypocrite. It is the weakest sort of politicians that are the greatest dissemblers. Bacon. Priests, princes, women, no dissemblers here. Pope.  Syn.  -- Dissembler, Hypocrite. A person is called a dissembler with reference to his concealment of his real character, and a hypocrite with reference to his assumption of a false character. But hypocrite is the stronger word, being commonly used to characterize a person who is habitually insincere and false, especially one who makes professions of goodness when his aims are selfish and his life corrupt. 

DISSEMBLING:  That dissembles; hypocritical; false.  -- Dis*sem"bling*ly, adv. 

DISSEMINATED:  Occurring in small portions scattered through some other substance. 

DISSEMINATION:  The act of disseminating, or the state of being disseminated; diffusion for propagation and permanence; a scattering or spreading abroad, as of ideas, beliefs, etc. The universal dissemination of those writings. Wayland. 

DISSEMINATIVE:  Tending to disseminate, or to become disseminated. The effect of heresy is, like the plague, infectious and disseminative. Jer. Taylor. 

DISSEMINATOR:  One who, or that which, disseminates, spreads, or propagates; as, disseminators of disease. 

DISSENSION:  Disagreement in opinion, usually of a violent character, producing warm debates or angry words; contention in words; partisan and contentious divisions; breach of friendship and union; strife; discord; quarrel. Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them. Acts xv. 2. Debates, dissension, uproars are thy joy. Dryden. A seditious person and raiser-up of dissension among the people. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

DISSENSIOUS:  Disposed to discord; contentious; dissentious. [R.] Ascham.  -- Dis*sen"sious*ly, adv. Chapman. 

DISSENT:  To differ from an established church in regard to doctrines, rites, or government.  3. To differ; to be of a contrary nature. Hooker. 

DISSENT:  Separation from an established church, especially that of England; nonconformity. It is the dissidence of dissent and the protestantism of the Protestant religion. Burke.  3. Contrariety of nature; diversity in quality. [Obs.] The dissent of the metals. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Disagreement; variance; difference; nonconcurrence; nonconformity. 

DISSENTANEOUS:  Disagreeing; contrary; differing; -- opposed to consentaneous. [R.] Barrow. 

DISSENTANY:  Dissentaneous; inconsistent. [Obs.] Milton. 

DISSENTATION:  Dissension. [Obs.] W. Browne. 

DISSENTER:  One who separates from the service and worship of an established church; especially, one who disputes the authority or tenets of the Church of England; a nonconformist. Dissenters from the establishment of their several countries. Burke. Robert Brown is said to have the first formal dissenter. Shipley.  Note: "The word is commonly applied only to Protestants. The Roman Catholics are generally referred to as a distinct class." Brande & C. 

DISSENTERISM:  The spirit or principles of dissenters. Ed. Rev. 

DISSENTIATE:  To throw into a state of dissent. [R.] Feltham. 

DISSENTIENT:  Disagreeing; declaring dissent; dissenting.  -- n.  One who dissents. Macaulay. 

DISSENTIOUS:  Marked by dissensions; apt to breed discord; quarrelsome; contentious; factious.  -- Dis*sen"tious*ly, adv. 

DISSENTIVE:  Disagreeing; inconsistent. [Obs.] Feltham. 

DISSEPIMENT:  One of the partitions which divide a compound ovary into cells.  3. (Zoöl.)  One of the transverse, calcareous partitions between the radiating septa of a coral. 

DISSERT:  To discourse or dispute; to discuss. [R.] We have disserted upon it a little longer than was necessary. Jeffrey. 

DISSERTATE:  To deal in dissertation; to write dissertations; to discourse. [R.] J. Foster. 

DISSERTATION:  A formal or elaborate argumentative discourse, oral or written; a disquisition; an essay; a discussion; as, Dissertations on the Prophecies. 

DISSERTATIONAL:  Relating to dissertations; resembling a dissertation. 

DISSERTATIONIST:  A writer of dissertations. 

DISSERTATOR:  One who writers a dissertation; one who discourses. Boyle. 

DISSERTLY:  See Disertly. [Obs.] 

DISSERVE:  To fail to serve; to do injury or mischief to; to damage; to hurt; to harm. Have neither served nor disserved the interests of any party. Jer. Taylor. 

DISSERVICE:  Injury; mischief. We shall rather perform good offices unto truth than any disservice unto their relators. Sir T. Browne. 

DISSERVICEABLE:  Calculated to do disservice or harm; not serviceable; injurious; harmful; unserviceable. Shaftesbury.  -- Dis*serv"ice*a*ble*ness, n. Norris.  -- Dis*serv"ice*a*bly, adv. 

DISSETTLE:  To unsettle. [Obs.] 

DISSETTLEMENT:  The act of unsettling, or the state of being unsettled. Marvell. 

DISSEVER:  To part in two; to sever thoroughly; to sunder; to disunite; to separate; to disperse. The storm so dissevered the company . . . that most of therm never met again. Sir P. Sidney. States disserved, discordant, belligerent. D. Webster. 

DISSEVER:  To part; to separate. Chaucer. 

DISSEVERANCE:  The act of disserving; separation. 

DISSEVERATION:  The act of disserving; disseverance. [Obs.] 

DISSEVERMENT:  Disseverance. Sir W. Scott. 

DISSHADOW:  To free from shadow or shade. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 

DISSHEATHE:  To become unsheathed. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

DISSHIP:  To dismiss from service on board ship. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 

DISSHIVER:  To shiver or break in pieces. [Obs.] 

DISSIDENCE:  Disagreement; dissent; separation from the established religion. I. Taylor. It is the dissidence of dissent. Burke. 

DISSIDENT:  No agreeing; dissenting; discordant; different. Our life and manners be dissident from theirs. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

DISSIDENT:  One who disagrees or dissents; one who separates from the established religion. The dissident, habituated and taught to think of his dissidencI. Taylor. 

DISSIDENTLY:  In a dissident manner.  DISSILIENCE; DISSILIENCY Dis*sil"i*ence, Dis*sil"i*en*cy, n.  The act of leaping or starting asunder. Johnson. 

DISSILIENT:  Starting asunder; bursting and opening with an elastic force; dehiscing explosively; as, a dissilient pericarp. 

DISSILITION:  The act of bursting or springing apart. [R.] Boyle. 

DISSIMILAR:  Not similar; unlike; heterogeneous; as, the tempers of men are as dissimilar as their features. This part very dissimilar to any other. Boyle. 

DISSIMILARITY:  Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilitude; variety; as, the dissimilarity of human faces and forms. Sir W. Jones. 

DISSIMILARLY:  In a dissimilar manner; in a varied style. With verdant shrubs dissimilarly gay. C. Smart. 

DISSIMILATE:  To render dissimilar. 

DISSIMILATION:  The act of making dissimilar. H. Sweet. 

DISSIMILE:  Comparison or illustration by contraries. 

DISSIMILITUDE:  A comparison by contrast; a dissimile. 

DISSIMULATE:  Feigning; simulating; pretending. [Obs.] Henryson. 

DISSIMULATE:  To dissemble; to feign; to pretend. 

DISSIMULATION:  The act of dissembling; a hiding under a false appearance; concealment by feigning; false pretension; hypocrisy. Let love be without dissimulation. Rom. xii. 9. Dissimulation . . . when a man lets fall signs and arguments that he is not that he is. Bacon. Simulation is a pretense of what is not, and dissimulation a concealment of what is. Tatler. 

DISSIMULATOR:  One who dissimulates; a dissembler. 

DISSIMULE:  To dissemble. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISSIMULER:  A dissembler. [Obs.] 

DISSIMULOUR:  A dissembler. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DISSIPABLE:  Capable of being scattered or dissipated. [R.] The heat of those plants is very dissipable. Bacon. 

DISSIPATIVE:  Tending to dissipate. Dissipative system (Mech.), an assumed system of matter and motions in which forces of friction and resistances of other kinds are introduced without regard to the heat or other molecular actions which they generate; -- opposed to conservative system. 

DISSIPATIVITY:  The rate at which palpable energy is dissipated away into other forms of energy. 

DISSITE:  Lying apart. [Obs.] Lands far dissite and remote asunder. Holland. 

DISSLANDER:  To slander. [Obs.] Legend of Dido. 

DISSLANDER:  Slander. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

DISSLANDEROUS:  Slanderous. [Obs.] 

DISSOCIABILITY:  Want of sociability; unsociableness. Bp. Warburton. 

DISSOCIAL:  Unfriendly to society; contracted; selfish; as, dissocial feelings. 

DISSOCIALIZE:  To render unsocial. 

DISSOCIATE:  To separate from fellowship or union; to disunite; to disjoin; as, to dissociate the particles of a concrete substance. Before Wyclif's death in 1384, John of Gaunt had openly dissociated himself from the reformer. A. W. Ward. 

DISSOCIATION:  The process by which a compound body breaks up into simpler constituents; -- said particularly of the action of heat on gaseous or volatile substances; as, the dissociation of the sulphur molecules; the dissociation of ammonium chloride into hydrochloric acid and ammonia. 

DISSOCIATIVE:  Tending or leading to dissociation. 

DISSOLUBILITY:  The quality of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissolved by heat or moisture, and converted into a fluid. 

DISSOLUBLENESS:  The quality of being dissoluble; dissolubility. Boyle. 

DISSOLUTELY:  In a dissolute manner. 

DISSOLUTENESS:  State or quality of being dissolute; looseness of morals and manners; addictedness to sinful pleasures; debauchery; dissipation. Chivalry had the vices of dissoluteness. Bancroft. 

DISSOLVABILITY:  Capacity of being dissolved; solubility. Richardson. 

DISSOLVABLE:  Capable of being dissolved, or separated into component parts; capable of being liquefied; soluble.  -- Dis*solv"a*ble*ness, n. Though everything which is compacted be in its own nature dissolvable. Cudworth. Such things as are not dissolvable by the moisture of the tongue. Sir I. Newton. 

DISSOLVATIVE:  Having the power to dissolve anything; solvent. [Obs.] Frampton. 

DISSOLVE:  To annul; to rescind; to discharge or release; as, to dissolve an injunction.  Syn.  -- See Adjourn. 

DISSOLVENT:  Having power to dissolve power to dissolve a solid body; as, the dissolvent juices of the stomach. Ray. 

DISSOLVENT:  A remedy supposed capable of dissolving concretions in the body, such as calculi, tubercles, etc. 

DISSOLVER:  One who, or that which, has power to dissolve or dissipate. Thou kind dissolver of encroaching care. Otway. 

DISSOLVING:  Melting; breaking up; vanishing.  -- Dis*solv"ing*ly, adv. Dissolving view, a picture which grows dim and is gradually replaced by another on the same field; -- an effect produced by magic lanterns. 

DISSONANCY:  Discord; dissonance. 

DISSPIRIT:  See Dispirit. 

DISSUADER:  One who dissuades; a dehorter. 

DISSUASIVE:  Tending to dissuade or divert from a measure or purpose; dehortatory; as, dissuasive advice.  -- n.  A dissuasive argument or counsel; dissuasion; dehortation. Prynne.  -- Dis*sua"sive*ly, adv. 

DISSUASORY:  A dissuasive. [R.] This virtuous and reasonable person, however, has ill luck in all his dissuasories. Jeffrey. 

DISSUNDER:  To separate; to sunder; to destroy. [R.] Chapman. 

DISSWEETEN:  To deprive of sweetness. [R.] Bp. Richardson. 

DISSYLLABIC:  Consisting of two syllabas, a dissyllabic foot in poetry. B. Jons 

DISSYLLABIFICATION:  A formi 

DISSYLLABIFY:  To form into two syllables. Ogilvie. 

DISSYLLABIZE:  To form into two syllables; to dyssyllabify. 

DISSYLLABLE:  A word of two syllables; as, pa-per. 

DISSYMMETRICAL:  Not having symmetry; asymmetrical; unsymmetrical. 

DISSYMMETRY:  Absence or defect of symmetry; asymmetry. 

DISSYMPATHY:  Lack of sympathy; want of interest; indifference. [R.] 

DISTAD:  Toward a distal part; on the distal side of; distally. 

DISTAIN:  To tinge with a different color from the natural or proper one; to stain; to discolor; to sully; to tarnish; to defile; -- used chiefly in poetry. "Distained with dirt and blood." Spenser. [She] hath . . . distained her honorable blood. Spenser. The worthiness of praise distains his worth. Shak. 

DISTALLY:  Toward a distal part. 

DISTANCE:  A space marked out in the last part of a race course. The horse that ran the whole field out of distance. L'Estrange.  Note: In trotting matches under the rules of the American Association, the distance varies with the conditions of the race, being 80 yards in races of mile heaths, best two in three, and 150 yards in races of two-mile heats. At that distance from the winning post in placed the distance post. If any horse has not reached this distance post before the first horse in that heat has reached the winning post, such horse is distanced, and disqualified for cunning again during that race.  4. (Mil.)  Relative space, between troops in ranks, measured from front to rear; -- contrasted with interval, which is measured from right to left. "Distance between companies in close column is twelve yards." Farrow.  5. Space between two antagonists in fencing. Shak.  6. (Painting)  The part of a picture which contains the representation of those objects which are the farthest away, esp. in a landscape.  Note: In a picture, the Middle distance is the central portion between the foreground and the distance or the extreme distance. In a perspective drawing, the Point of distance is the point where the visual rays meet.  7. Ideal disjunction; discrepancy; contrariety. Locke.  8. Length or interval of time; period, past or future, between two eras or events. Ten years' distance between one and the other. Prior. The writings of Euclid at the distance of two thousand years. Playfair.  9. The remoteness or reserve which respect requires; hence, respect; ceremoniousness. I hope your modesty Will know what distance to the crown is due. Dryden. 'T is by respect and distance that authority is upheld. Atterbury.  10. A withholding of intimacy; alienation; coldness; disagreement; variance; restraint; reserve. Setting them [factions] at distance, or at least distrust amongst themselves. Bacon. On the part of Heaven, Now alienated, distance and distaste. Milton.  11. Remoteness in succession or relation; as, the distance between a descendant and his ancestor.  12. (Mus.)  The interval between two notes; as, the distance of a fourth or seventh. Angular distance, the distance made at the eye by lines drawn from the eye to two objects.  -- Lunar distance. See under Lunar.  -- North polar distance (Astron.), the distance on the heavens of a heavenly body from the north pole. It is the complement of the declination.  -- Zenith distance (Astron.), the arc on the heavens from a heavenly body to the zenith of the observer. It is the complement of the altitude.  -- To keep one's distance, to stand aloof; to refrain from familiarity. If a man makes keep my distance, the comfort is he keeps his at the same time. Swift. 

DISTANCY:  Distance. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

DISTANTIAL:  Distant. [Obs.] More distantial from the eye. W. Montagu. 

DISTANTLY:  At a distance; remotely; with reserve. 

DISTASTE:  To be distasteful; to taste ill or disagreeable. [Obs.] Dangerous conceits are, in their natures, poisons, Which at the are scarce found to distaste. Shak. 

DISTASTEIVE:  Tending to excite distaste. [Obs.] -- n.  That which excites distaste or aversion. [Obs.] Whitlock. 

DISTASTURE:  Something which excites distaste or disgust. [Obs.] Speed. 

DISTEMPER:  To mix (colors) in the way of distemper; as, to distemper colors with size. [R.] 

DISTEMPERANCE:  Distemperature. [Obs.] 

DISTEMPERATELY:  Unduly. [Obs.] 

DISTEMPERMENT:  Distempered state; distemperature. [Obs.] Feltham. 

DISTEND:  To become expanded or inflated; to swell. "His heart distends with pride." Milton. 

DISTENSIBILITY:  The quality or capacity of being distensible. [R.] 

DISTENSIBLE:  Capable of being distended or dilated. 

DISTENSION:  Same as Distention. 

DISTENSIVE:  Distending, or capable of being distended. 

DISTENT:  Distended. [Poetic] Thomson. 

DISTENT:  Breadth. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

DISTER:  To banish or drive from a country. [Obs.] Howell. 

DISTERMINATE:  Separated by bounds. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DISTERMINATION:  Separation by bounds. [Obs.] Hammond. 

DISTHENE:  Cyanite or kyanite; -- so called in allusion to its unequal hardness in two different directions. See Cyanite. 

DISTHRONE:  To dethrone. [Obs.] 

DISTHRONIZE:  To dethrone. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISTICH:  A couple of verses or poetic lines making complete sense; an epigram of two verses.  DISTICH; DISTICHOUS Dis"tich, Dis"tich*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. Distich, n.]  Disposed in two vertical rows; two-ranked. 

DISTICHOUSLY:  In a distichous manner. 

DISTIL:  See Distill. 

DISTILLABLE:  Capable of being distilled; especially, capable of being distilled without chemical change or decomposition; as, alcohol is distillable; olive oil is not distillable. 

DISTILLATE:  The product of distillation; as, the distillate from molasses. 

DISTILLATION:  The separation of the volatile parts of a substance from the more fixed; specifically, the operation of driving off gas or vapor from volatile liquids or solids, by heat in a retort or still, and the condensation of the products as far as possible by a cool receiver, alembic, or condenser; rectification; vaporization; condensation; as, the distillation of illuminating gas and coal, of alcohol from sour mash, or of boric acid in steam.  Note: The evaporation of water, its condensation into clouds, and its precipitation as rain, dew, frost, snow, or hail, is an illustration of natural distillation.  4. The substance extracted by distilling. Shak. Destructive distillation (Chem.), the distillation, especially of complex solid substances, so that the ultimate constituents are separated or evolved in new compounds, -- usually requiring a high degree of heat; as, the destructive distillation of soft coal or of wood.  -- Dry distillation, the distillation of substances by themselves, or without the addition of water or of other volatile solvent; as, the dry distillation of citric acid.  -- Fractional distillation. (Chem.) See under Fractional. 

DISTILLATORY:  Belonging to, or used in, distilling; as, distillatory vessels.  -- n.  A distillatory apparatus; a still. 

DISTILLMENT:  Distillation; the substance obtained by distillation. [Obs.] Shak. 

DISTINCT:  To distinguish. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

DISTINCTIVELY:  With distinction; plainly. 

DISTINCTIVENESS:  State of being distinctive. 

DISTINCTURE:  Distinctness. [R.] 

DISTINGUISHABLENESS:  The quality of being distinguishable. 

DISTINGUISHABLY:  So as to be distinguished. 

DISTINGUISHEDLY:  In a distinguished manner. [R.] Swift. 

DISTINGUISHING:  Constituting difference, or distinction from everything else; distinctive; peculiar; characteristic. The distinguishing doctrines of our holy religion. Locke. Distinguishing pennant (Naut.), a special pennant by which any particular vessel in a fleet is recognized and signaled. Simmonds. 

DISTINGUISHINGLY:  With distinction; with some mark of preference. Pope. 

DISTINGUISHMENT:  Observation of difference; distinction. Graunt. 

DISTITLE:  To deprive of title or right. [R.] B. Jonson. 

DISTOMA:  A genus of parasitic, trematode worms, having two suckers for attaching themselves to the part they infest. See 1st Fluke,  2. 

DISTORT:  Distorted; misshapen. [Obs.] Her face was ugly and her mouth distort. Spenser. 

DISTORTER:  One who, or that which, distorts. 

DISTORTION:  An unnatural deviation of shape or position of any part of the body producing visible deformity. 

DISTORTIVE:  Causing distortion. 

DISTRACTED:  Mentally disordered; unsettled; mad. My distracted mind. Pope. 

DISTRACTEDLY:  Disjointedly; madly. Shak. 

DISTRACTEDNESS:  A state of being distracted; distraction. Bp. Hall. 

DISTRACTER:  One who, or that which, distracts away. 

DISTRACTFUL:  Distracting. [R.] Heywood. 

DISTRACTIBLE:  Capable of being drawn aside or distracted. 

DISTRACTILE:  Tending or serving to draw apart. 

DISTRACTING:  Tending or serving to distract. 

DISTRACTIOUS:  Distractive. [Obs.] 

DISTRACTIVE:  Causing perplexity; distracting. "Distractive thoughts." Bp. Hall. 

DISTRAIN:  To levy a distress. Upon whom I can distrain for debt. Camden. 

DISTRAINABLE:  Capable of being, or liable to be, distrained. Blackstone. 

DISTRAINER:  Same as Distrainor. 

DISTRAINOR:  One who distrains; the party distraining goods or chattels. Blackstone. 

DISTRAINT:  The act or proceeding of seizing personal property by distress. Abbott. 

DISTRAIT:  Absent-minded; lost in thought; abstracted. 

DISTRAUGHTED:  Distracted. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISTREAM:  To flow. [Poetic] Yet o'er that virtuous blush distreams a tear. Shenstone. 

DISTRESS:  To seize for debt; to distrain.  Syn.  -- To pain; grieve; harass; trouble; perplex; afflict; worry; annoy. 

DISTRESSEDNESS:  A state of being distressed or greatly pained. 

DISTRESSFUL:  Full of distress; causing, indicating, or attended with, distress; as, a distressful situation. "Some distressful stroke." Shak. "Distressful cries." Pope.  -- Dis*tress"ful*ly, adv. 

DISTRESSING:  Causing distress; painful; unpleasant. 

DISTRESSING:  In a distressing manner. 

DISTRIBUTABLE:  Capable of being distributed. Sir W. Jones. 

DISTRIBUTARY:  Tending to distribute or be distributed; that distributes; distributive. 

DISTRIBUTE:  To employ (a term) in its whole extent; to take as universal in one premise. A term is said to be distributed when it is taken universal, so as to stand for everything it is capable of being applied to. Whately.  Syn.  -- To dispense; deal out; apportion; allot; share; assign; divide. 

DISTRIBUTE:  To make distribution. Distributing to the necessity of saints. Rom. xii. 13. 

DISTRIBUTER:  One who, or that which, distributes or deals out anything; a dispenser. Addison. 

DISTRIBUTING:  That distributes; dealing out. Distributing past office, an office where the mails for a large district are collected to be assorted according to their destination and forwarded. 

DISTRIBUTION:  A resolving a whole into its parts.  5. (Print.)  The sorting of types and placing them in their proper boxes in the cases.  6. (Steam Engine)  The steps or operations by which steam is supplied to and withdrawn from the cylinder at each stroke of the piston; viz., admission, suppression or cutting off, release or exhaust, and compression of exhaust steam prior to the next admission. Geographical distribution, the natural arrangements of animals and plants in particular regions or districts.  Syn.  -- Apportionments; allotment; dispensation; disposal; dispersion; classification; arrangement. 

DISTRIBUTIONAL:  Of or pertaining to distribution. Huxley. 

DISTRIBUTIONIST:  A distributer. [R.] Dickens. 

DISTRIBUTIVE:  Assigning the species of a general term.  3. (Gram.)  Expressing separation; denoting a taking singly, not collectively; as, a distributive adjective or pronoun, such as each, either, every; a distributive numeral, as (Latin) bini (two by two). Distributive operation (Math.), any operation which either consists of two or more parts, or works upon two or more things, and which is such that the result of the total operation is the same as the aggregated result of the two or more partial operations. Ordinary multiplication is distributive, since a × (b + c) = ab + ac, and (a + b) × c = ac + bc.  -- Distributive proportion. (Math.) See Fellowship. 

DISTRIBUTIVE:  A distributive adjective or pronoun; also, a distributive numeral. 

DISTRIBUTIVELY:  By distribution; singly; not collectively; in a distributive manner. 

DISTRIBUTIVENESS:  Quality of being distributive. 

DISTRICT:  Rigorous; stringent; harsh. [Obs.] Punishing with the rod of district severity. Foxe. 

DISTRICT:  The territory within which the lord has the power of coercing and punishing.  2. A division of territory; a defined portion of a state, town, or city, etc., made for administrative, electoral, or other purposes; as, a congressional district, judicial district, land district, school district, etc. To exercise exclusive legislation . . . over such district not exceeding ten miles square. The Constitution of the United States.  3. Any portion of territory of undefined extent; a region; a country; a tract. These districts which between the tropics lie. Blackstone. Congressional district. See under Congressional.  -- District attorney, the prosecuting officer of a district or district court.  -- District court, a subordinate municipal, state, or United States tribunal, having jurisdiction in certain cases within a judicial district.  -- District judge, one who presides over a district court.  -- District school, a public school for the children within a school district. [U.S.]  Syn.  -- Division; circuit; quarter; province; tract; region; country. 

DISTRICT:  To divide into districts or limited portions of territory; as, legislatures district States for the choice of representatives. 

DISTRICTION:  Sudden display; flash; glitter. [R.] A smile . . . breaks out with the brightest distriction. Collier. 

DISTRICTLY:  Strictly. [Obs.] Foxe. 

DISTRINGAS:  A writ commanding the sheriff to distrain a person by his goods or chattels, to compel a compliance with something required of him. 

DISTROUBLE:  To trouble. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DISTRUST:  To feel absence of trust in; not to confide in or rely upon; to deem of questionable sufficiency or reality; to doubt; to be suspicious of; to mistrust. Not distrusting my health. 2 Mac. ix. 22. To distrust the justice of your cause. Dryden. He that requireth the oath doth distrust that other. Udall. Of all afraid, Distrusting all, a wise, suspicious maid. Collins.  Note: Mistrust has been almost wholly driven out by distrust. T. L. K. Oliphant. 

DISTRUSTER:  One who distrusts. 

DISTRUSTING:  That distrusts; suspicious; lacking confidence in.  -- Dis*trust"ing*ly, adv. 

DISTRUSTLESS:  Free from distrust. Shenstone. 

DISTUNE:  To put out of tune. [Obs.] 

DISTURB:  Disturbance. [Obs.] Milton. 

DISTURBANCE:  The hindering or disquieting of a person in the lawful and peaceable enjoyment of his right; the interruption of a right; as, the disturbance of a franchise, of common, of ways, and the like. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- Tumult; brawl; commotion; turmoil; uproar; hubbub; disorder; derangement; confusion; agitation; perturbation; annoyance. 

DISTURBATION:  Act of disturbing; disturbance. [Obs.] Daniel. 

DISTURBER:  One who interrupts or incommodes another in the peaceable enjoyment of his right. 

DISTURN:  To turn aside. [Obs.] Daniel. 

DISTYLE:  Having two columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, or the like. Distyle in antis, having columns between two antæ. See Anta. 

DISULPHIDE:  A binary compound of sulphur containing two atoms of sulphur in each molecule; -- formerly called disulphuret. Cf. Bisulphide. 

DISULPHURET:  See Disulphide. 

DISULPHURIC:  Applied to an acid having in each molecule two atoms of sulphur in the higher state of oxidation. Disulphuric acid, a thick oily liquid, H2S2O7, called also Nordhausen acid (from Nordhausen in the Harts, where it was originally manufactured), fuming sulphuric acid, and especially pyrosulphuric acid. See under Pyrosulphuric. 

DISUNIFORM:  Not uniform. [Obs.] 

DISUNIONIST:  An advocate of disunion, specifically, of disunion of the United States. 

DISUNITE:  To part; to fall asunder; to become separated. The joints of the body politic do separate and disunite. South. 

DISUNITER:  One who, or that which, disjoins or causes disunion. 

DISUNITY:  A state of separation or disunion; want of unity. Dr. H. More. 

DISUSAGE:  Gradual cessation of use or custom; neglect of use; disuse. [R.] Hooker. 

DISUSE:  Cessation of use, practice, or exercise; inusitation; desuetude; as, the limbs lose their strength by disuse. The disuse of the tongue in the only . . . remedy. Addison. Church discipline then fell into disuse. Southey. 

DISUTILIZE:  To deprive of utility; to render useless. [R.] Mrs. Browning. 

DISVALUATION:  Disesteem; depreciation; disrepute. Bacon. 

DISVALUE:  To undervalue; to depreciate. Shak. 

DISVALUE:  Disesteem; disregard. B. Jonson. 

DISVANTAGEOUS:  Disadvantageous. [Obs.] "Disadvantageous ground." Drayton. 

DISVELOP:  To develop. [Obs.] 

DISVENTURE:  A disadventure. [Obs.] Shelton. 

DISVOUCH:  To discredit; to contradict. [Obs.] Shak. 

DISWARN:  To dissuade from by previous warning. [Obs.] 

DISWITTED:  Deprived of wits or understanding; distracted. [Obs.] Drayton. 

DISWONT:  To deprive of wonted usage; to disaccustom. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

DISWORKMANSHIP:  Bad workmanship. [Obs.] Heywood. 

DISWORSHIP:  To refuse to worship; to treat as unworthy. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

DISWORSHIP:  A deprivation of honor; a cause of disgrace; a discredit. [Obs.] Milton. 

DISWORTH:  To deprive of worth; to degrade. [Obs.] Feltham. 

DISYOKE:  To unyoke; to free from a yoke; to disjoin. [Poetic] R. Browning. 

DIT:  To close up. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

DITATION:  The act of making rich; enrichment. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DITCH:  To dig a ditch or ditches. Swift. 

DITCHER:  One who digs ditches. 

DITE:  To prepare for action or use; to make ready; to dight. [Obs.] His hideous club aloft he dites. Spenser. 

DITEREBENE:  See Colophene.  DITHECAL; DITHECOUS Di*the"cal, Di*the"cous, a. Etym: [Pref. di- + theca.] (Bot.)  Having two thecæ, cells, or compartments. 

DITHEISM:  The doctrine of those who maintain the existence of two gods or of two original principles (as in Manicheism), one good and one evil; dualism. 

DITHEIST:  One who holds the doctrine of ditheism; a dualist. Cudworth.  DITHEISTIC; DITHEISTICAL Di`the*is"tic, Di`the*is"tic*al, a.  Pertaining to ditheism; dualistic. 

DITHIONIC:  Containing two equivalents of sulphur; as, dithionic acid. Dithionic acid (Chem.), an unstable substance, H2S2O6, known only in its solutions, and in certain well-defined salts. 

DITHYRAMB:  A kind of lyric poetry in honor of Bacchus, usually sung by a band of revelers to a flute accompaniment; hence, in general, a poem written in a wild irregular strain. Bentley. 

DITHYRAMBIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a dithyramb; wild and boisterous. "Dithyrambic sallies." Longfellow.  -- n.  A dithyrambic poem; a dithyramb. 

DITHYRAMBUS:  See Dithyramb. 

DITION:  Dominion; rule. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

DITIONARY:  Under rule; subject; tributary. [Obs.] Chapman. 

DITIONARY:  A subject; a tributary. [Obs.] Eden. 

DITOLYL:  A white, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C14H14, consisting of two radicals or residues of toluene. 

DITONE:  The Greek major third, which comprehend two major tones (the modern major third contains one major and one minor whole tone). 

DITRICHOTOMOUS:  Dividing into double or treble ramifications; -- said of a leaf or stem. [R.] Loudon. 

DITROCHEAN:  Containing two trochees. 

DITROCHEE:  A double trochee; a foot made up of two trochees. 

DITROITE:  An igneous rock composed of orthoclase, elæolite, and sodalite. 

DITT:  See Dit, n.,  2. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DITTANDER:  A kind of peppergrass (Lepidium latifolium). 

DITTIED:  Set, sung, or composed as a ditty; -- usually in composition. Who, with his soft pipe, and smooth-dittied song. Milton. 

DITTO:  The aforesaid thing; the same (as before). Often contracted to do., or to two "turned commas" ("), or small marks. Used in bills, books of account, tables of names, etc., to save repetition. A spacious table in the center, and a variety of smaller dittos in the corners. Dickens. 

DITTO:  As before, or aforesaid; in the same manner; also. 

DITTOLOGY:  A double reading, or twofold interpretation, as of a Scripture text. [R.] 

DITTY:  To sing; to warble a little tune. Beasts fain would sing; birds ditty to their notes. Herbert.  DITTY-BAG Dit"ty-bag`, n.  A sailor's small bag to hold thread, needles, tape, etc.; -- also called sailor's housewife.  DITTY-BOX Dit"ty-box`, n.  A small box to hold a sailor's thread, needless, comb, etc. 

DIUREIDE:  One of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded as containing two molecules of urea or their radicals, as uric acid or allantoin. Cf. Ureide. 

DIURESIS:  Free excretion of urine. 

DIURETIC:  Tending to increase the secretion and discharge of urine.  -- n.  A medicine with diuretic properties. Diuretic salt (Med.), potassium acetate; -- so called because of its diuretic properties. 

DIURETICAL:  Diuretic. [Obs.] Boyle. 

DIURETICALNESS:  The quality of being diuretical; diuretic property. 

DIURNA:  A division of Lepidoptera, including the butterflies; -- so called because they fly only in the daytime. 

DIURNAL:  Opening during the day, and closing at night; -- said of flowers or leaves.  4. (Zoöl.)  Active by day; -- applied especially to the eagles and hawks among raptorial birds, and to butterflies (Diurna) among insects. Diurnal aberration (Anat.), the aberration of light arising from the effect of the earth's rotation upon the apparent direction of motion of light.  -- Diurnal arc, the arc described by the sun during the daytime or while above the horizon; hence, the arc described by the moon or a star from rising to setting.  -- Diurnal circle, the apparent circle described by a celestial body in consequence of the earth's rotation.  -- Diurnal motion of the earth, the motion of the earth upon its axis which is described in twentyfour hours.  -- Diurnal motion of a heavenly body, that apparent motion of the heavenly body which is due to the earth's diurnal motion.  -- Diurnal parallax. See under Parallax.  -- Diurnal revolution of a planet, the motion of the planet upon its own axis which constitutes one complete revolution.  Syn.  -- See Daily. 

DIURNAL:  A small volume containing the daily service for the "little hours," viz., prime, tierce, sext, nones, vespers, and compline.  3. (Zoöl.)  A diurnal bird or insect. 

DIURNALIST:  A journalist. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DIURNALLY:  Daily; every day. 

DIURNALNESS:  The quality of being diurnal. 

DIURNATION:  The condition of sleeping or becoming dormant by day, as is the case of the bats. 

DIUTURNAL:  Of long continuance; lasting. [R.] Milton. 

DIUTURNITY:  Long duration; lastingness. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

DIVA:  A prima donna. 

DIVAGATION:  A wandering about or going astray; digression. Let us be set down at Queen's Crawley without further divagation. Thackeray. 

DIVALENT:  Having two units of combining power; bivalent. Cf. Valence. 

DIVARICATE:  To divide into two branches; to cause to branch apart. 

DIVARICATE:  Forking and diverging; widely diverging; as the branches of a tree, or as lines of sculpture, or color markings on animals, etc. 

DIVARICATELY:  With divarication. 

DIVARICATION:  A divergence of lines of color sculpture, or of fibers at different angles. 

DIVARICATOR:  One of the muscles which open the shell of brachiopods; a cardinal muscle. See Illust. of Brachiopoda. 

DIVAST:  Devastated; laid waste. [Obs.] 

DIVEDAPPER:  A water fowl; the didapper. See Dabchick. 

DIVEL:  To rend apart. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

DIVELLENT:  Drawing asunder. [R.] 

DIVELLICATE:  To pull in pieces. [Obs. or R.] 

DIVER:  Any bird of certain genera, as Urinator (formerly Colymbus), or the allied genus Colymbus, or Podiceps, remarkable for their agility in diving.  Note: The northern diver (Urinator imber) is the loon; the black diver or velvet scoter (Oidemia fusca) is a sea duck. See Loon, and Scoter. 

DIVERB:  A saying in which two members of the sentence are contrasted; an antithetical proverb. [Obs.] Italy, a paradise for horses, a hell for women, as the diverb goes. Burton. 

DIVERBERATE:  To strike or sound through. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode). 

DIVERBERATION:  A sounding through. 

DIVERGEMENT:  Divergence.  DIVERGENCE; DIVERGENCY Di*ver"gence, Di*ver"gen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. divergence.]  1. A receding from each other in moving from a common center; the state of being divergent; as, an angle is made by the divergence of straight lines. Rays come to the eye in a state of divergency.  2. Disagreement; difference. Related with some divergence by other writers. Sir G. C. Lewis. 

DIVERGENT:  Causing divergence of rays; as, a divergent lens.  3. Fig.: Disagreeing from something given; differing; as, a divergent statement. Divergent series. (Math.) See Diverging series, under Diverging. 

DIVERGING:  Tending in different directions from a common center; spreading apart; divergent. Diverging series (Math.), a series whose terms are larger as the series is extended; a series the sum of whose terms does not approach a finite limit when the series is extended indefinitely; -- opposed to a converging series. 

DIVERGINGLY:  In a diverging manner. 

DIVERSE:  In different directions; diversely. 

DIVERSE:  To turn aside. [Obs.] The redcross knight diverst, but forth rode Britomart. Spenser. 

DIVERSENESS:  The quality of being diverse. 

DIVERSIFIABILITY:  The quality or capacity of being diversifiable. Earle. 

DIVERSIFIABLE:  Capable of being diversified or varied. Boyle. 

DIVERSIFIED:  Distinguished by various forms, or by a variety of aspects or objects; variegated; as, diversified scenery or landscape. 

DIVERSIFIER:  One who, or that which, diversifies. 

DIVERSIFORM:  Of a different form; of varied forms. 

DIVERSIFY:  To make diverse or various in form or quality; to give variety to; to variegate; to distinguish by numerous differences or aspects. Separated and diversified on from another. Locke. Its seven colors, that diversify all the face of nature. I. Taylor. 

DIVERSILOQUENT:  Speaking in different ways. [R.] 

DIVERSION:  The act of drawing the attention and force of an enemy from the point where the principal attack is to be made; the attack, alarm, or feint which diverts.  Syn.  -- Amusement; entertainment; pastime; recreation; sport; game; play; solace; merriment. 

DIVERSIVOLENT:  Desiring different things. [Obs.] Webster (White Devil). 

DIVERSORY:  Serving or tending to divert; also, distinguishing. [Obs.] 

DIVERSORY:  A wayside inn. [Obs. or R.] Chapman. 

DIVERT:  To turn aside; to digress. [Obs.] I diverted to see one of the prince's palaces. Evelyn. 

DIVERTER:  One who, or that which, diverts, turns off, or pleases. 

DIVERTIBLE:  Capable of being diverted. 

DIVERTICLE:  A diverticulum. 

DIVERTICULAR:  Pertaining to a diverticulum. 

DIVERTICULUM:  A blind tube branching out of a longer one. 

DIVERTIMENTO:  ) A light and pleasing composition. 

DIVERTING:  Amusing; entertaining.  -- Di*vert"ing*ly, adv.  -- Di*vert"ing*ness, n. 

DIVERTISE:  To divert; to entertain. [Obs.] Dryden. 

DIVERTISEMENT:  Diversion; amusement; recreation. [R.] 

DIVERTISSEMENT:  A short ballet, or other entertainment, between the acts of a play. Smart. 

DIVERTIVE:  Tending to divert; diverting; amusing; interesting. Things of a pleasant and divertive nature. Rogers. 

DIVES:  The name popularly given to the rich man in our Lord's parable of the "Rich Man and Lazarus" (Luke xvi. 19-31). Hence, a name for a rich worldling. 

DIVEST:  See Devest. Mozley & W. 

DIVESTIBLE:  Capable of being divested. 

DIVESTITURE:  The act of stripping, or depriving; the state of being divested; the deprivation, or surrender, of possession of property, rights, etc. 

DIVESTMENT:  The act of divesting. [R.] 

DIVESTURE:  Divestiture. [Obs.] 

DIVET:  See Divot. 

DIVIDANT:  Different; distinct. [Obs.] Shak. 

DIVIDE:  To subject to arithmetical division.  7. (Logic)  To separate into species; -- said of a genus or generic term.  8. (Mech.)  To mark divisions on; to graduate; as, to divide a sextant.  9. (Music)  To play or sing in a florid style, or with variations. [Obs.] Spenser.  Syn.  -- To sever; dissever; sunder; cleave; disjoin; disunite; detach; disconnect; part; distribute; share. 

DIVIDE:  A dividing ridge of land between the tributaries of two streams; a watershed. 

DIVIDED:  Cut into distinct parts, by incisions which reach the midrib; - - said of a leaf. 

DIVIDEDLY:  Separately; in a divided manner. 

DIVIDEND:  A number or quantity which is to be divided. 

DIVIDENT:  Dividend; share. [Obs.] Foxe. 

DIVIDER:  An instrument for dividing lines, describing circles, etc., compasses. See Compasses.  Note: The word dividers is usually applied to the instrument as made for the use of draughtsmen, etc.; compasses to the coarser instrument used by carpenters. 

DIVIDING:  That divides; separating; marking divisions; graduating. Dividing engine, a machine for graduating circles (as for astronomical instruments) or bars (as for scales); also, for spacing off and cutting teeth in wheels.  -- Dividing sinker. (Knitting Mach.). See under Sinker. 

DIVIDINGLY:  By division.  DIVI-DIVI Di"vi-di"vi, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Bot.)  A small tree of tropical America (Cæsalpinia coriaria), whose legumes contain a large proportion of tannic and gallic acid, and are used by tanners and dyers. 

DIVIDUAL:  Divided, shared, or participated in, in common with others. [R.] Milton. 

DIVIDUALLY:  By dividing. [R.] 

DIVIDUOUS:  Divided; dividual. [R.] He so often substantiates distinctions into dividuous, selfsubsistent. Coleridge. 

DIVINATOR:  One who practices or pretends to divination; a diviner. [R.] Burton. 

DIVINATORY:  Professing, or relating to, divination. "A natural divinatory instinct." Cowley. 

DIVINEMENT:  Divination. [Obs.] 

DIVINENESS:  The quality of being divine; superhuman or supreme excellence. Shak. 

DIVINERESS:  A woman who divines. Dryden. 

DIVING:  That dives or is used or diving. Diving beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle of the family Dytiscidæ, which habitually lives under water; - - called also water tiger.  -- Diving bell, a hollow inverted vessel, sometimes bell-shaped, in which men may descend and work under water, respiration being sustained by the compressed air at the top, by fresh air pumped in through a tube from above.  -- Diving dress. See Submarine armor, under Submarine.  -- Diving stone, a kind of jasper. 

DIVINIFY:  To render divine; to deify. [Obs.] "Blessed and divinified soul." Parth. Sacra (1633). 

DIVINING:  That divines; for divining. Divining rod, a rod, commonly of witch hazel, with forked branches, used by those who pretend to discover water or metals under ground. 

DIVININGLY:  In a divining manner. 

DIVINISTRE:  A diviner. [Obs.] " I am no divinistre." Chaucer. 

DIVINITY:  Calf stained dark brown and worked without gilding, often used for theological books. 

DIVINIZATION:  A making divine. M. Arnold. 

DIVINIZE:  To invest with a divine character; to deify. [R.] M. Arnold. Man had divinized all those objects of awe. Milman. 

DIVISIBILITY:  The quality of being divisible; the property of bodies by which their parts are capable of separation. Divisibility . . . is a primary attribute of matter. Sir W. Hamilton. 

DIVISIBLE:  Capable of being divided or separated. Extended substance . . . is divisible into parts. Sir W. Hamilton. Divisible contract (Law), a contract containing agreements one of which can be separated from the other.  -- Divisible offense (Law), an offense containing a lesser offense in one of a greater grade, so that on the latter there can be an acquittal, while on the former there can be a conviction.  -- Di*vis"i*ble*ness, n.  -- Di*vis"i*bly, adv. 

DIVISIBLE:  A divisible substance. Glanvill. 

DIVISION:  The process of finding how many times one number or quantity is contained in another; the reverse of multiplication; also, the rule by which the operation is performed.  8. (Logic)  The separation of a genus into its constituent species.  9. (Mil.) (a) Two or more brigades under the command of a general officer. (b) Two companies of infantry maneuvering as one subdivision of a battalion. (c) One of the larger districts into which a country is divided for administering military affairs.  10. (Naut.)  One of the groups into which a fleet is divided.  11. (Mus.)  A course of notes so running into each other as to form one series or chain, to be sung in one breath to one syllable.  12. (Rhet.)  The distribution of a discourse into parts; a part so distinguished.  13. (Biol.)  A grade or rank in classification; a portion of a tribe or of a class; or, in some recent authorities, equivalent to a subkingdom. Cell division (Biol.), a method of cell increase, in which new cells are formed by the division of the parent cell. In this process, the cell nucleus undergoes peculiar differentiations and changes, as shown in the figure (see also Karyokinesis). At the same time the protoplasm of the cell becomes gradually constricted by a furrow transverse to the long axis of the nuclear spindle, followed, on the completion of the division of the nucleus, by a separation of the cell contents into two masses, called the daughter cells.  -- Long division (Math.), the process of division when the operations are mostly written down.  -- Short division (Math.), the process of division when the operations are mentally performed and only the results written down; -- used principally when the divisor is not greater than ten or twelve.  Syn.  -- compartment; section; share; allotment; distribution; separation; partition; disjunction; disconnection; difference; variance; discord; disunion. 

DIVISIONAL:  That divides; pas, a divisional line; a divisional general; a divisional surgeon of police. Divisional planes (Geol.), planes of separation between rock masses. They include joints. 

DIVISIONALLY:  So as to be divisional. 

DIVISIONARY:  Divisional. 

DIVISIONOR:  One who divides or makes division. [Obs.] Sheldon. 

DIVISOR:  The number by which the dividend is divided. Common divisor. (Math.) See under Common, a. 

DIVORCEABLE:  Capable of being divorced. 

DIVORCEE:  A person divorced. 

DIVORCELESS:  Incapable of being divorced or separated; free from divorce. 

DIVORCEMENT:  Dissolution of the marriage tie; divorce; separation. Let him write her a divorcement. Deut. xxiv. 1. The divorcement of our written from our spoken language. R. Morris. 

DIVORCER:  The person or cause that produces or effects a divorce. Drummond. 

DIVORCIBLE:  Divorceable. Milton. 

DIVORCIVE:  Having power to divorce; tending to divorce. "This divorcive law." Milton. 

DIVOT:  A thin, oblong turf used for covering cottages, and also for fuel. [Scot.] Simmonds. 

DIVULGATE:  Published. [Obs.] Bale. 

DIVULGATE:  To divulge. [Obs.] Foxe. 

DIVULGATER:  A divulger. [R.] 

DIVULGATION:  The act of divulging or publishing. [R.] Secrecy hath no use than divulgation. Bp. Hall. 

DIVULGE:  To become publicly known. [R.] "To keep it from divulging." Shak. 

DIVULSIVE:  Tending to pull asunder, tear, or rend; distracting. 

DIXIE:  A colloquial name for the Southern portion of the United States, esp. during the Civil War. [U.S.] 

DIZZ:  To make dizzy; to astonish; to puzzle. [Obs.] Gayton. 

DIZZARD:  A blockhead. [Obs.] [Written also dizard, and disard.] -- Diz"zard*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

DIZZILY:  In a dizzy manner or state. 

DIZZINESS:  Giddiness; a whirling sensation in the head; vertigo. 

DIZZY:  To make dizzy or giddy; to give the vertigo to; to confuse. If the jangling of thy bells had not dizzied thy understanding. Sir W. Scott.  DJEREED; DJERRID Djer*eed" or Djer*rid" (, n. Etym: [F. djerid, fr. Ar. See Jereed.] (a) A blunt javelin used in military games in Moslem countries. (b) A game played with it. [Written also jereed, jerrid, etc.] 

DJINNEE:  See Jinnee, Jinn.  DO. Do. (, n.  An abbreviation of Ditto. 

DO:  A syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonic scale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio. It is the first of the seven syllables used by the Italians as manes of musical tones, and replaced, for the sake of euphony, the syllable Ut, applied to the note C. In England and America the same syllables are used by mane as a scale pattern, while the tones in respect to absolute pitch are named from the first seven letters of the alphabet. 

DO:  To cash or to advance money for, as a bill or note.  Note: (a) Do and did are much employed as auxiliaries, the verb to which they are joined being an infinitive. As an auxiliary the verb do has no participle. "I do set my bow in the cloud." Gen. ix. 13. [Now archaic or rare except for emphatic assertion.] Rarely . . . did the wrongs of individuals to the knowledge of the public. Macaulay. (b) They are often used in emphatic construction. "You don't say so, Mr. Jobson.  -- but I do say so." Sir W. Scott. "I did love him, but scorn him now." Latham. (c) In negative and interrogative constructions, do and did are in common use. I do not wish to see them; what do you think Did Cæsar cross the Tiber He did not. "Do you love me" Shak. (d) Do, as an auxiliary, is supposed to have been first used before imperatives. It expresses entreaty or earnest request; as, do help me. In the imperative mood, but not in the indicative, it may be used with the verb to be; as, do be quiet. Do, did, and done often stand as a general substitute or representative verb, and thus save the repetition of the principal verb. "To live and die is all we have to do." Denham. In the case of do and did as auxiliaries, the sense may be completed by the infinitive (without to) of the verb represented. "When beauty lived and died as flowers do now." Shak. "I . . . chose my wife as she did her wedding gown." Goldsmith. My brightest hopes giving dark fears a being. As the light does the shadow. Longfellow. In unemphatic affirmative sentences do is, for the most part, archaic or poetical; as, "This just reproach their virtue does excite." Dryden. To do one's best, To do one's diligence (and the like), to exert one's self; to put forth one's best or most or most diligent efforts. "We will . . . do our best to gain their assent." Jowett (Thucyd.).  -- To do one's business, to ruin one. [Colloq.] Wycherley.  -- To do one shame, to cause one shame. [Obs.] -- To do over. (a) To make over; to perform a second time. (b) To cover; to spread; to smear. "Boats . . . sewed together and done over with a kind of slimy stuff like rosin." De Foe.  -- To do to death, to put to death. (See 7.) [Obs.] -- To do up. (a) To put up; to raise. [Obs.] Chaucer. (b) To pack together and envelop; to pack up. (c) To accomplish thoroughly. [Colloq.] (d) To starch and iron. "A rich gown of velvet, and a ruff done up with the famous yellow starch." Hawthorne.  -- To do way, to put away; to lay aside. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- To do with, to dispose of; to make use of; to employ; -- usually preceded by what. "Men are many times brought to that extremity, that were it not for God they would not know what to do with themselves." Tillotson.  -- To have to do with, to have concern, business or intercourse with; to deal with. When preceded by what, the notion is usually implied that the affair does not concern the person denoted by the subject of have. "Philology has to do with language in its fullest sense." Earle. "What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zeruiah 2 Sam. xvi. 10. 

DO:  To succeed; to avail; to answer the purpose; to serve; as, if no better plan can be found, he will make this do. You would do well to prefer a bill against all kings and parliaments since the Conquest; and if that won't do; challenge the crown. Collier. To do by. See under By.  -- To do for. (a) To answer for; to serve as; to suit. (b) To put an end to; to ruin; to baffle completely; as, a goblet is done for when it is broken. [Colloq.] Some folks are happy and easy in mind when their victim is stabbed and done for. Thackeray. -- To do withal, to help or prevent it. [Obs.] "I could not do withal." Shak.  -- To do without, to get along without; to dispense with.  -- To have done, to have made an end or conclusion; to have finished; to be quit; to desist.  -- To have done with, to have completed; to be through with; to have no further concern with.  -- Well to do, in easy circumstances. 

DOAB:  A tongue or tract of land included between two rivers; as, the doab between the Ganges and the Jumna. [India] Am. Cyc. 

DOABLE:  Capable of being done. Carlyle.  DO-ALL Do"-all`, n.  General manager; factotum. Under him, Dunstan was the do-all at court, being the king's treasurer, councilor, chancellor, confessor, all things. Fuller. 

DOAND:  Doing. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

DOAT:  See Dote. 

DOBBER:  See Dabchick.  2. A float to a fishing line. [Local, U. S.] 

DOBBY:  An apparatus resembling a Jacquard for weaving small figures (usually about 12 - 16 threads, seldom more than 36 - 40 threads). 

DOBCHICK:  See Dabchick.  DOBELL'S SOLUTION Do*bell's" so*lu"tion. (Med.)  An aqueous solution of carbolic acid, borax, sodium bicarbonate, and glycerin, used as a spray in diseases of the nose and throat. 

DOBSON:  The aquatic larva of a large neuropterous insect (Corydalus cornutus), used as bait in angling. See Hellgamite. 

DOBULE:  The European dace. 

DOCENT:  Serving to instruct; teaching. [Obs.] 

DOCETAE:  Ancient heretics who held that Christ's body was merely a phantom or appearance. 

DOCETIC:  Pertaining to, held by, or like, the Docetæ. "Docetic Gnosticism." Plumptre. 

DOCETISM:  The doctrine of the Docetæ. 

DOCHMIAC:  Pertaining to, or containing, the dochmius. 

DOCHMIUS:  A foot of five syllables (usually  DOCIBILITY; DOCIBLENESS Doc`i*bil"i*ty, Doc"i*ble*ness, n. Etym: [L. docibilitas.]  Aptness for being taught; teachableness; docility. To persons of docibility, the real character may be easily taught in a few days. Boyle. The docibleness of dogs in general. Walton. 

DOCIBLE:  Easily taught or managed; teachable. Milton. 

DOCIMACY:  The art or practice of applying tests to ascertain the nature, quality, etc., of objects, as of metals or ores, of medicines, or of facts pertaining to physiology. 

DOCIMASTIC:  Proving by experiments or tests. Docimastic art, metallurgy, or the art of assaying metals; the art of separating metals from foreign matters, and determining the nature and quantity of metallic substances contained in any ore or mineral. 

DOCIMOLOGY:  A treatise on the art of testing, as in assaying metals, etc. 

DOCITY:  Teachableness. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U. S.] 

DOCK:  A genus of plants (Rumex), some species of which are well-known weeds which have a long taproot and are difficult of extermination.  Note: Yellow dock is Rumex crispus, with smooth curly leaves and yellow root, which that of other species is used medicinally as an astringent and tonic. 

DOCK:  To draw, law, or place (a ship) in a dock, for repairing, cleaning the bottom, etc. 

DOCKAGE:  A charge for the use of a dock.  DOCK-CRESS Dock"-cress`, n. (Bot.)  Nipplewort. 

DOCKYARD:  A yard or storage place for all sorts of naval stores and timber for shipbuilding. 

DOCOGLOSSA:  An order of gastropods, including the true limpets, and having the teeth on the odontophore or lingual ribbon. 

DOCQUET:  See Docket. 

DOCTOR:  The friar skate. [Prov. Eng.] Doctors' Commons. See under Commons.  -- Doctor's stuff, physic, medicine. G. Eliot.  -- Doctor fish (Zoöl.), any fish of the genus Acanthurus; the surgeon fish; -- so called from a sharp lancetlike spine on each side of the tail. Also called barber fish. See Surgeon fish. 

DOCTOR:  To practice physic. [Colloq.] 

DOCTORAL:  Of or relating to a doctor, or to the degree of doctor. Doctoral habit and square cap. Wood. 

DOCTORALLY:  In the manner of a doctor.[R.] 

DOCTORATE:  The degree, title, or rank, of a doctor. 

DOCTORATE:  To make (one) a doctor. He was bred . . . in Oxford and there doctorated. Fuller. 

DOCTORESS:  A female doctor.[R.] 

DOCTORLY:  Like a doctor or learned man. [Obs.] "Doctorly prelates." Foxe. 

DOCTORSHIP:  Doctorate. [R.] Clarendon. 

DOCTRESS:  A female doctor. [R.] 

DOCTRINABLE:  Of the nature of, or constituting, doctrine. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

DOCTRINAIRE:  One who would apply to political or other practical concerns the abstract doctrines or the theories of his own philosophical system; a propounder of a new set of opinions; a dogmatic theorist. Used also adjectively; as, doctrinaire notions.  Note: In french history, the Doctrinaires were a constitutionalist party which originated after the restoration of the Bourbons, and represented the interests of liberalism and progress. After the Revolution of July, 1830, when they came into power, they assumed a conservative position in antagonism with the republicans and radicals. Am. Cyc. 

DOCTRINAL:  A matter of doctrine; also, a system of doctrines. T. Goodwin. Sir T. Elyot. 

DOCTRINALLY:  In a doctrinal manner or for; by way of teaching or positive direction. 

DOCTRINARIAN:  A doctrinaire. J. H. Newman. 

DOCTRINARIANISM:  The principles or practices of the Doctrinaires. 

DOCUMENTARY:  Pertaining to written evidence; contained or certified in writing. "Documentary evidence." Macaulay.  DODD; DOD Dodd, Dod, v. t. Etym: [OE. dodden.]  To cut off, as wool from sheep's tails; to lop or clip off. Halliwell. 

DODDART:  A game much like hockey, played in an open field; also, the, bent stick for playing the game. [Local, Eng.] Halliwell. 

DODDED:  Without horns; as, dodded cattle; without beards; as, dodded corn. Halliwell. 

DODDER:  A plant of the genus Cuscuta. It is a leafless parasitical vine with yellowish threadlike stems. It attaches itself to some other plant, as to flax, goldenrod, etc., and decaying at the root. is nourished by the plant that supports it. 

DODDER:  To shake, tremble, or totter. "The doddering mast." Thomson. 

DODDERED:  Shattered; infirm. "A laurel grew, doddered with age." Dryden. 

DODECAGON:  A figure or polygon bounded by twelve sides and containing twelve angles. 

DODECAGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants having twelve styles.  DODECAGYNIAN; DODECAGYNOUS Do*dec`a*gyn"i*an, Do`de*cag"y*nous, a. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the Dodecagynia; having twelve styles. 

DODECAHEDRAL:  Pertaining to, or like, a dodecahedion; consisting of twelve equal sides. Dodecahedral cleavage. See under Cleavage. 

DODECAHEDRON:  A solid having twelve faces.  Note: The regular dodecahedron is bounded by twelve equal and regular pentagons; the pyritohedron (see Pyritohedron) is related to it; the rhombic dodecahedron is bounded by twelve equal rhombic faces. 

DODECANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants including all that have any number of stamens between twelve and nineteen.  DODECANDRIAN; DODECANDROUS Do`de*can"dri*an, Do`de*can"drous, a. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the Dodecandria; having twelve stamens, or from twelve to nineteen. 

DODECANE:  Any one of a group of thick oily hydrocarbons, C12H26, of the paraffin series. 

DODECASTYLE:  Having twelve columns in front.  -- n.  A dodecastyle portico, or building. 

DODECASYLLABIC:  Having twelve syllables. 

DODECASYLLABLE:  A word consisting of twelve syllables. 

DODECATEMORY:  A tern applied to the twelve houses, or parts, of the zodiac of the primum mobile, to distinguish them from the twelve signs; also, any one of the twelve signs of the zodiac. 

DODGE:  The act of evading by some skillful movement; a sudden starting aside; hence, an artful device to evade, deceive, or cheat; a cunning trick; an artifice. [Colloq.] Some, who have a taste for good living, have many harmless arts, by which they improve their banquet, and innocent dodges, if we may be permitted to use an excellent phrase that has become vernacular since the appearance of the last dictionaries. Thackeray. 

DODGERY:  trickery; artifice. [Obs.] Hacket.  DODIPATE; DODIPOLL Dod"i*pate, Dod"i*poll, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. OE. dodden to cut off, to shear, and first applied to shaven-polled priests.]  A stupid person; a fool; a blockhead. Some will say, our curate is naught, an ass-head, a dodipoll. Latimer. 

DODKIN:  A doit; a small coin. Shelton. 

DODMAN:  Any shellfish which casts its shell, as a lobster. [Prov. Eng.] 

DODO:  A large, extinct bird (Didus ineptus), formerly inhabiting the Island of Mauritius. It had short, half-fledged wings, like those of the ostrich, and a short neck and legs; -- called also dronte. It was related to the pigeons. 

DOE:  A female deer or antelope; specifically, the female of the fallow deer, of which the male is called a buck. Also applied to the female of other animals, as the rabbit. See the Note under Buck. 

DOE:  A feat. [Obs.] See Do, n. Hudibras. 

DOEGLIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, the doegling; as, doeglic acid (Chem.), an oily substance resembling oleic acid. 

DOEGLING:  The beaked whale (Balænoptera rostrata), from which doegling oil is obtained.  DOE, JOHN Doe, John. (Law)  The fictitious lessee acting as plaintiff in the common-law action of ejectment, the fictitious defendant being usually denominated Richard Roe. Hence, a fictitious name for a party, real or fictitious, to any action or proceeding. 

DOER:  An agent or attorney; a factor. Burrill. 

DOES:  The 3d pers. sing. pres. of Do. 

DOFF:  To put off dress; to take off the hat. 

DOFFER:  A revolving cylinder, or a vibrating bar with teeth, in a carding machine, which doffs, or strips off, the cotton from the cards. Ure. 

DOG:  A quadruped of the genus Canis, esp. the domestic dog (C. familiaris).  Note: The dog is distinguished above all others of the inferior animals for intelligence, docility, and attachment to man. There are numerous carefully bred varieties, as the beagle, bloodhound, bulldog, coachdog, collie, Danish dog, foxhound, greyhound, mastiff, pointer, poodle, St. Bernard, setter, spaniel, spitz dog, terrier, etc. There are also many mixed breeds, and partially domesticated varieties, as well as wild dogs, like the dingo and dhole. (See these names in the Vocabulary.)  2. A mean, worthless fellow; a wretch. What is thy servant, which is but a dog, that he should do this great thing 2 Kings viii. 13 (Rev. Ver. )  3. A fellow; -- used humorously or contemptuously; as, a sly dog; a lazy dog. [Colloq.]  4. (Astron.)  One of the two constellations, Canis Major and Canis Minor, or the Greater Dog and the Lesser Dog. Canis Major contains the Dog Star (Sirius).  5. An iron for holding wood in a fireplace; a firedog; an andiron.  6. (Mech.) (a) A grappling iron, with a claw or claws, for fastening into wood or other heavy articles, for the purpose of raising or moving them. (b) An iron with fangs fastening a log in a saw pit, or on the carriage of a sawmill. (c) A piece in machinery acting as a catch or clutch; especially, the carrier of a lathe, also, an adjustable stop to change motion, as in a machine tool.  Note: Dog is used adjectively or in composition, commonly in the sense of relating to, or characteristic of, a dog. It is also used to denote a male; as, dog fox or g-fox, a male fox; dog otter or dog- otter, dog wolf, etc.; -- also to denote a thing of cheap or mean quality; as, dog Latin. A dead dog, a thing of no use or value. 1 Sam. xxiv. 14.  -- A dog in the manger, an ugly-natured person who prevents others from enjoying what would be an advantage to them but is none to him.  -- Dog ape (Zoöl.), a male ape.  -- Dog cabbage, or Dog's cabbage (Bot.), a succulent herb, native to the Mediterranean region (Thelygonum Cynocrambe).  -- Dog cheap, very cheap. See under Cheap.  -- Dog ear (Arch.), an acroterium. [Colloq.] -- Dog flea (Zoöl.), a species of flea (Pulex canis) which infests dogs and cats, and is often troublesome to man. In America it is the common flea. See Flea, and Aphaniptera.  -- Dog grass (Bot.), a grass (Triticum caninum) of the same genus as wheat.  -- Dog Latin, barbarous Latin; as, the dog Latin of pharmacy.  -- Dog lichen (Bot.), a kind of lichen (Peltigera canina) growing on earth, rocks, and tree trunks, -- a lobed expansion, dingy green above and whitish with fuscous veins beneath.  -- Dog louse (Zoöl.), a louse that infests the dog, esp. Hæmatopinus piliferus; another species is Trichodectes latus.  -- Dog power, a machine operated by the weight of a dog traveling in a drum, or on an endless track, as for churning.  -- Dog salmon (Zoöl.), a salmon of northwest America and northern Asia; -- the gorbuscha; -- called also holia, and hone.  -- Dog shark. (Zoöl.) See Dogfish.  -- Dog's meat, meat fit only for dogs; refuse; offal.  -- Dog Star. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Dog wheat (Bot.), Dog grass.  -- Dog whelk (Zoöl.), any species of univalve shells of the family Nassidæ, esp. the Nassa reticulata of England.  -- To give, or throw, to the dogs, to throw away as useless. "Throw physic to the dogs; I'll none of it." Shak.  -- To go to the dogs, to go to ruin; to be ruined. 

DOG:  To hunt or track like a hound; to follow insidiously or indefatigably; to chase with a dog or dogs; to worry, as if by dogs; to hound with importunity. I have been pursued, dogged, and waylaid. Pope. Your sins will dog you, pursue you. Burroughs. Eager ill-bred petitioners, who do not so properly supplicate as hunt the person whom they address to, dogging him from place to place, till they even extort an answer to their rude requests. South. 

DOGAL:  Of or pertaining to a doge.[R.] 

DOGATE:  The office or dignity of a doge. 

DOGBANE:  A small genus of perennial herbaceous plants, with poisonous milky juice, bearing slender pods pods in pairs.  DOG BEE Dog" bee`.  A male or drone bee. Halliwell. 

DOGBERRY:  The berry of the dogwood; -- called also dogcherry. Dr. Prior. Dogberry tree (Bot.), the dogwood. 

DOGBOLT:  The bolt of the cap-square over the trunnion of a cannon. Knight.  DOG-BRIER Dog"-bri`er, n. (Bot.)  The dog-rose. 

DOGCART:  A light one-horse carriage, commonly two-wheeled, patterned after a cart. The original dogcarts used in England by sportsmen had a box at the back for carrying dogs.  DOG DAY; DOGDAY Dog" day` or Dog"day`.  One of the dog days. Dogday cicada (Zoöl.), a large American cicada (C. pruinosa), which trills loudly in midsummer.  DOG DAYS Dog" days`.  A period of from four to six weeks, in the summer, variously placed by almanac makers between the early part of July and the early part of September; canicular days; -- so called in reference to the rising in ancient times of the Dog Star (Sirius) with the sun. Popularly, the sultry, close part of the summer.  Note: The conjunction of the rising of the Dog Star with the rising of the sun was regarded by the ancients as one of the causes of the sultry heat of summer, and of the maladies which then prevailed. But as the conjunction does not occur at the same time in all latitudes, and is not constant in the same region for a long period, there has been much variation in calendars regarding the limits of the dog days. The astronomer Roger Long states that in an ancient calendar in Bede (died 735) the beginning of dog days is placed on the 14th of July; that in a calendar prefixed to the Common Prayer, printed in the time of Queen Elizabeth, they were said to begin on the 6th of July and end on the 5th of September; that, from the Restoration (1660) to the beginning of New Style (1752), British almanacs placed the beginning on the 19th of July and the end on the 28th of August; and that after 1752 the beginning was put on the 30th of July, the end on the 7th of September. Some English calendars now put the beginning on July 3d, and the ending on August 11th. A popular American almanac of the present time (1890) places the beginning on the 25th of July, and the end on the 5th of September. 

DOGDRAW:  The act of drawing after, or pursuing, deer with a dog. Cowell. 

DOGE:  The chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa.  DOG-EARED Dog"-eared`, a.  Having the corners of the leaves turned down and soiled by careless or long-continued usage; -- said of a book. Statute books before unopened, not dog-eared. Ld. Mansfield. 

DOGEATE:  Dogate. Wright. 

DOGELESS:  Without a doge. Byron.  DOG-FACED Dog"-faced`, a.  Having a face resembling that of a dog. Dog-faced baboon (Zoöl.), any baboon of the genus Cynocephalus. See Drill.  DOG FANCIER Dog" fan`cier.  One who has an unusual fancy for, or interest in, dogs; also, one who deals in dogs. 

DOGGEDLY:  In a dogged manner; sullenly; with obstinate resolution. 

DOGGER:  A two-masted fishing vessel, used by the Dutch. 

DOGGER:  A sort of stone, found in the mines with the true alum rock, chiefly of silica and iron. 

DOGGEREL:  Low in style, and irregular in measure; as, doggerel rhymes. This may well be rhyme doggerel, quod he. Chaucer. 

DOGGEREL:  A sort of loose or irregular verse; mean or undignified poetry. Doggerel like that of Hudibras. Addison. The ill-spelt lines of doggerel in which he expressed his reverence for the brave sufferers. Macaulay. 

DOGGERMAN:  A sailor belonging to a dogger. 

DOGGET:  Docket. See Docket. [Obs.] 

DOGGISH:  Like a dog; having the bad qualities of a dog; churlish; growling; brutal.  -- Dog"*gish*ly, adv.  -- Dog"gish*ness, n. 

DOGGREL:  Same as Doggerel.  DOG-HEADED Dog"-head`ed, a. (Zoöl.)  Having a head shaped like that of a dog; -- said of certain baboons.  DOG-HEARTED Dog"-heart`ed, a.  Inhuman; cruel. Shak. 

DOGHOLE:  A place fit only for dogs; a vile, mean habitation or apartment. Dryden.  DOG-LEGGED dog"-leg`ged, a. (Arch)  Noting a flight of stairs, consisting of two or more straight portions connected by a platform (landing) or platforms, and running in opposite directions without an intervening wellhole. 

DOGMATIC:  One of an ancient sect of physicians who went by general principles; -- opposed to the Empiric.  DOGMATIC; DOGMATICAL Dog*mat"ic, Dog*mat`ic*al, a. Etym: [L. dogmaticus, Gr. dogmatique.]  1. Pertaining to a dogma, or to an established and authorized doctrine or tenet.  2. Asserting a thing positively and authoritatively; positive; magisterial; hence, arrogantly authoritative; overbearing. Critics write in a positive, dogmatic way. Spectator. [They] are as assertive and dogmatical as if they were omniscient. Glanvill. Dogmatic theology. Same as Dogmatics.  Syn.  -- Magisterial; arrogant. See Magisterial. 

DOGMATICALLY:  In a dogmatic manner; positively; magisterially. 

DOGMATICALNESS:  The quality of being dogmatical; positiveness. 

DOGMATICIAN:  A dogmatist. 

DOGMATICS:  The science which treats of Christian doctrinal theology. 

DOGMATISM:  The manner or character of a dogmatist; arrogance or positiveness in stating opinion. The self-importance of his demeanor, and the dogmatism of his conversation. Sir W. Scott. 

DOGMATIST:  One who dogmatizes; one who speaks dogmatically; a bold and arrogant advancer of principles. I expect but little success of all this upon the dogmatist; his opinioned assurance is paramount to argument. Glanvill. 

DOGMATIZE:  To assert positively; to teach magisterially or with bold and undue confidence; to advance with arrogance. The pride of dogmatizing schools. Blackmore. 

DOGMATIZE:  To deliver as a dogma. [R.] 

DOGMATIZER:  One who dogmatizes; a bold asserter; a magisterial teacher. Hammond.  DOG-ROSE Dog"-rose`, n. (Bot.)  A common European wild rose, with single pink or white flowers.  DOG'S-BANE Dog's"-bane`, n. (Bot.)  See Dogbane.  DOG'S-EAR Dog's"-ear`, n.  The corner of a leaf, in a book, turned down like the ear of a dog. Gray.  -- Dog's"-eared`, a. Cowper. 

DOGSHIP:  The character, or individuality, of a dog. 

DOGSHORE:  One of several shores used to hold a ship firmly and prevent her moving while the blocks are knocked away before launching. 

DOGSICK:  Sick as a dog sometimes is very sick. [Colloq.] 

DOGSKIN:  The skin of a dog, or leather made of the skin. Also used adjectively. 

DOGSLEEP:  The fitful naps taken when all hands are kept up by stress.  DOG'S-TAIL GRASS Dog's"-tail grass`, n. (Bot.)  A hardy species of British grass (Cynosurus cristatus) which abounds in grass lands, and is well suited for making straw plait; -- called also goldseed.  DOG STAR Dog" Star`.  Sirius, a star of the constellation Canis Major, or the Greater Dog, and the brightest star in the heavens; -- called also Canicula, and, in astronomical charts, a Canis Majoris. See Dog days.  DOG'S-TONGUE Dog's"-tongue`, n. (Bot.)  Hound's-tongue. 

DOGTIE:  A cramp. 

DOGTOOTH:  An ornament common in Gothic architecture, consisting of pointed projections resembling teeth; -- also called tooth ornament. Dogtooth spar (Min.), a variety of calcite, in acute crystals, resembling the tooth of a dog. See Calcite.  -- Dogtooth violet (Bot.), a small, bulbous herb of the Lily family (genus Erythronium). It has two shining flat leaves and commonly one large flower. [Written also dog's-tooth violet.] 

DOGTRICK:  A gentle trot, like that of a dog. 

DOGVANE:  A small vane of bunting, feathers, or any other light material, carried at the masthead to indicate the direction of the wind. Totten. 

DOGWATCH:  A half watch; a watch of two hours, of which there are two, the first dogwatch from 4 to 6 o'clock, p.m., and the second dogwatch from 6 to 8 o'clock, P. M. Totten.  DOG-WEARY Dog"-wea`ry, a.  Extremely weary. Shak. 

DOGWOOD:  The Cornus, a genus of large shrubs or small trees, the wood of which is exceedingly hard, and serviceable for many purposes.  Note: There are several species, one of which, Cornus mascula, called also cornelian cherry, bears a red acid berry. C. florida is the flowering dogwood, a small American tree with very showy blossoms. Dogwood tree. (a) The dogwood or Cornus. (b) A papilionaceous tree (Piscidia erythring) growing in Jamaica. It has narcotic properties; -- called also Jamaica dogwood. 

DOHTREN:  Daughters. [Obs.] 

DOING:  Anything done; a deed; an action good or bad; hence, in the plural, conduct; behavior. See Do. To render an account of his doings. Barrow. 

DOITKIN:  A very small coin; a doit. 

DOKIMASTIC:  Docimastic. 

DOKO:  See Lepidosiren. 

DOLABRA:  A rude ancient ax or hatchet, seen in museums. 

DOLABRIFORM:  Shaped like the head of an ax or hatchet, as some leaves, and also certain organs of some shellfish.  DOLCE; DOLCEMENTE Dol"ce, Dol`ce*men"te, adv. Etym: [It., fr. L. dulcis sweet, soft.] (Mus.)  Softly; sweetly; with soft, smooth, and delicate execution.  DOLCINO; DULCINO Dol*ci"no, or Dul*ci"no (, n. Etym: [Cf. It. dolcigno sweetish.] (Mus.)  A small bassoon, formerly much used. Simmonds. 

DOLDRUMS:  A part of the ocean near the equator, abounding in calms, squalls, and light, baffling winds, which sometimes prevent all progress for weeks; -- so called by sailors. To be in the doldrums, to be in a state of listlessness ennui, or tedium. 

DOLE:  grief; sorrow; lamentation. [Archaic] And she died. So that day there was dole in Astolat. Tennyson. 

DOLE:  See Dolus. 

DOLE:  To deal out in small portions; to distribute, as a dole; to deal out scantily or grudgingly. The supercilious condescension with which even his reputed friends doled out their praises to him. De Quincey. 

DOLEFUL:  Full of dole or grief; expressing or exciting sorrow; sorrowful; sad; dismal. With screwed face and doleful whine. South. Regions of sorrow, doleful shades. Milton.  Syn.  -- Piteous; rueful; sorrowful; woeful; melancholy; sad gloomy; dismal; dolorous; woe-begone. - Dole"ful*ly, adv.  -- Dole"ful*ness, n. 

DOLENT:  Sorrowful. [Obs.] Ford. 

DOLENTE:  Plaintively. See Doloroso. 

DOLERITE:  A dark-colored, basic, igneous rock, composed essentially of pyroxene and a triclinic feldspar with magnetic iron. By many authors it is considered equivalent to a coarse-grained basalt. 

DOLERITIC:  Of the nature of dolerite; as, much lava is doleritic lava. Dana. 

DOLESOME:  Doleful; dismal; gloomy; sorrowful.  -- Dole"some*ly, adv.  -- Dole"some*ness, n. 

DOLF:  of Delve. [Obs.] Chaucer.  DOLICHOCEPHALIC; DOLICHOCEPHALOUS Dol`i*cho*ce*phal"ic, Dol`i*cho*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)  Having the cranium, or skull, long to its breadth; long-headed; -- opposed to brachycephalic.  -- Dol`i*cho*ceph"al, a. & n.  DOLICHOCEPHALY; DOLICHOCEPHALISM Dol`i*cho*ceph"a*ly, Dol`i*cho*ceph"a*lism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. dolichcéphalie.]  The quality or condition of being dolichocephalic. 

DOLIOFORM:  Barrel-shaped, or like a cask in form. 

DOLIOLUM:  A genus of freeswimming oceanic tunicates, allied to Salpa, and having alternate generations.  DO-LITTLE Do"-lit`tle, n.  One who performs little though professing much. [Colloq.] Great talkers are commonly dolittles. Bp. Richardson. 

DOLIUM:  A genus of large univalve mollusks, including the partridge shell and tun shells. 

DOLL:  A child's puppet; a toy baby for a little girl. 

DOLLARDEE:  A species of sunfish (Lepomis pallidus), common in the United States; -- called also blue sunfish, and copper-nosed bream. 

DOLLMAN:  See Dolman. 

DOLLY:  A contrivance, turning on a vertical axis by a handle or winch, and giving a circular motion to the ore to be washed; a stirrer.  2. (Mach.)  A tool with an indented head for shaping the head of a rivet. Knight.  3. In pile driving, a block interposed between the head of the pile and the ram of the driver.  4. A small truck with a single wide roller used for moving heavy beams, columns, etc., in bridge building.  5. A compact, narrow-gauge locomotive used for moving construction trains, switching, etc. 

DOLLY:  A child's mane for a doll. Dolly shop, a shop where rags, old junk, etc., are bought and sold; usually, in fact, an unlicensed pawnbroker's shop, formerly distinguished by the sign of a black doll. [England]  DOLLY VARDEN Dol"ly Var"den.  1. A character in Dickens's novel "Barnaby Rudge," a beautiful, lively, and coquettish girl who wore a cherry-colored mantle and cherry-colored ribbons.  2. A style of light, bright-figured dress goods for women; also, a style of dress. Dolly Varden trout (Zoöl.), a trout of northwest America; -- called also bull trout, malma, and red-spotted trout. See Malma. 

DOLMEN:  A cromlech. See Cromlech. [Written also tolmen.] 

DOLOMITE:  A mineral consisting of the carbonate of lime and magnesia in varying proportions. It occurs in distinct crystals, and in extensive beds as a compact limestone, often crystalline granular, either white or clouded. It includes much of the common white marble. Also called bitter spar. 

DOLOMITIC:  Pertaining to dolomite. 

DOLOMIZE:  To convert into dolomite.  -- Dol`o*mi*za"tion, n. 

DOLOR:  Pain; grief; distress; anguish. [Written also dolour.] [Poetic] Of death and dolor telling sad tidings. Spenser. 

DOLORIFEROUS:  Producing pain. Whitaker.  DOLORIFIC; DOLORIFICAL Dol`or*if"ic, Dol`or*if"ic*al, a. Etym: [LL. dolorificus; L. dolor pain + facere to make.]  Causing pain or grief. Arbuthnot. 

DOLOROSO:  Plaintive; pathetic; -- used adverbially as a musical direction. 

DOLPHIN:  A mass of iron or lead hung from the yardarm, in readiness to be dropped on the deck of an enemy's vessel.  3. (Naut.) (a) A kind of wreath or strap of plaited cordage. (b) A spar or buoy held by an anchor and furnished with a ring to which ships may fasten their cables. R. H. Dana. (c) A mooring post on a wharf or beach. (d) A permanent fender around a heavy boat just below the gunwale. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  4. (Gun.)  In old ordnance, one of the handles above the trunnions by which the gun was lifted.  5. (Astron.)  A small constellation between Aquila and Pegasus. See Delphinus, n.,  2. Dolphin fly (Zoöl.), the black, bean, or collier, Aphis (Aphis fable), destructive to beans.  -- Dolphin striker (Naut.), a short vertical spar under the bowsprit. 

DOLPHINET:  A female dolphin. [R.] Spenser. 

DOLT:  A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus; a dunce; a dullard. This Puck seems but a dreaming dolt. Drayton. 

DOLT:  To behave foolishly. [Obs.] 

DOLTISH:  Doltlike; dull in intellect; stupid; blockish; as, a doltish clown.  -- Dolt"ish*ly, adv.  -- Dolt"ish*ness, n. 

DOLUS:  Evil intent, embracing both malice and fraud. See Culpa. Wharton. 

DOLVEN:  of Delve. [Obs.] Rom. of R.  -DOM -dom (.  A suffix denoting: (a) Jurisdiction or property and jurisdiction, dominion, as in kingdom earldom. (b) State, condition, or quality of being, as in wisdom, freedom.  Note: It is from the same root as doom meaning authority and judgment. . See Doom. 

DOMABLE:  Capable of being tamed; tamable. 

DOMABLENESS:  Tamableness. 

DOMAIN:  Ownership of land; an estate or patrimony which one has in his own right; absolute proprietorship; paramount or sovereign ownership. Public domain, the territory belonging to a State or to the general government; public lands. [U.S.]in the public domain may be used by anyone wihout restriction.  -- Right of eminent domain, that superior dominion of the sovereign power over all the property within the state, including that previously granted by itself, which authorizes it to appropriate any part thereof to a necessary public use, reasonable compensation being made. 

DOMAL:  Pertaining to a house. Addison. 

DOMANIAL:  Of or relating to a domain or to domains. 

DOME:  A cupola formed on a large scale.  Note: "The Italians apply the term il duomo to the principal church of a city, and the Germans call every cathedral church Dom; and it is supposed that the word in its present English sense has crept into use from the circumstance of such buildings being frequently surmounted by a cupola." Am. Cyc.  3. Any erection resembling the dome or cupola of a building; as the upper part of a furnace, the vertical steam chamber on the top of a boiler, etc.  4. (Crystallog.)  A prism formed by planes parallel to a lateral axis which meet above in a horizontal edge, like the roof of a house; also, one of the planes of such a form.  Note: If the plane is parallel to the longer diagonal (macrodiagonal) of the prism, it is called a macrodome; if parallel to the shorter (brachydiagonal), it is a brachydome; if parallel to the inclined diagonal in a monoclinic crystal, it is called a clinodome; if parallel to the orthodiagonal axis, an orthodome. Dana. 

DOME:  Decision; judgment; opinion; a court decision. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DOMEBOOK:  A book said to have been compiled under the direction of King Alfred. It is supposed to have contained the principal maxims of the common law, the penalties for misdemeanors, and the forms of judicial proceedings. Domebook was probably a general name for book of judgments. Burrill. 

DOMED:  Furnished with a dome; shaped like a dome. 

DOMESDAY:  A day of judgment. See Doomsday. [Obs.] Domesday Book, the ancient record of the survey of most of the lands of England, made by order of William the Conqueror, about 1086. It consists of two volumes, a large folio and a quarto, and gives the proprietors' tenures, arable land, woodland, etc. [Written also Doomsday Book.] 

DOMESMAN:  A judge; an umpire. [Obs.] 

DOMESTIC:  Articles of home manufacture, especially cotton goods. [U. S.] 

DOMESTICAL:  Domestic. [Obs.] Our private and domestical matter. Sir. P. Sidney. 

DOMESTICAL:  A family; a household. [Obs.] 

DOMESTICALLY:  In a domestic manner; privately; with reference to domestic affairs. 

DOMESTICANT:  Forming part of the same family. [Obs.] Sir E. Dering. 

DOMESTICATION:  The act of domesticating, or accustoming to home; the action of taming wild animals. 

DOMESTICATOR:  One who domesticates. 

DOMESTICITY:  The state of being domestic; domestic character; household life. 

DOMETT:  A kind of baize of which the ward is cotton and the weft woolen. Blakely. 

DOMEYKITE:  A massive mineral of tin-white or steel-gray color, an arsenide of copper. 

DOMICAL:  Relating to, or shaped like, a dome. 

DOMICILE:  A residence at a particular place accompanied with an intention to remain there for an unlimited time; a residence accepted as a final abode. Wharton. 

DOMICILE:  To establish in a fixed residence, or a residence that constitutes habitancy; to domiciliate. Kent. 

DOMICILIAR:  A member of a household; a domestic. 

DOMICILIARY:  Of or pertaining to a domicile, or the residence of a person or family. The personal and domiciliary rights of the citizen scrupulously guarded. Motley. Domiciliary visit (Law), a visit to a private dwelling, particularly for searching it, under authority. 

DOMICILIATION:  The act of domiciliating; permanent residence; inhabitancy. Milman. 

DOMICULTURE:  The art of house-keeping, cookery, etc. [R.] R. Park. 

DOMIFY:  To divide, as the heavens, into twelve houses. See House, in astrological sense. [Obs.]  2. To tame; to domesticate. [Obs.] Johnson. 

DOMINA:  Lady; a lady; -- a title formerly given to noble ladies who held a barony in their own right. Burrill.  DOMINANCE; DOMINANCY Dom"i*nance, Dom"i*nan*cy, n.  Predominance; ascendency; authority. 

DOMINANT:  Ruling; governing; prevailing; controlling; predominant; as, the dominant party, church, spirit, power. The member of a dominant race is, in his dealings with the subject race, seldom indeed fraudulent, . . . but imperious, insolent, and cruel. Macaulay. Dominant estate or tenement (Law), the estate to which a servitude or easement is due from another estate, the estate over which the servitude extends being called the servient estate or tenement. Bouvier. Wharton's Law Dict.  -- Dominant owner (Law), one who owns lands on which there is an easement owned by another.  Syn.  -- Governing; ruling; controlling; prevailing; predominant; ascendant. 

DOMINANT:  The fifth tone of the scale; thus G is the dominant of C, A of D, and so on. Dominant chord (Mus.), the chord based upon the dominant. 

DOMINATE:  To predominate over; to rule; to govern. "A city dominated by the ax." Dickens. We everywhere meet with Slavonian nations either dominant or dominated. W. Tooke. 

DOMINATE:  To be dominant. Hallam. 

DOMINATION:  A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaning given by the schoolmen. Thrones, dominations, princedoms, virtues, powers. Milton. 

DOMINATIVE:  Governing; ruling; imperious. Sir E. Sandys. 

DOMINATOR:  A ruler or ruling power. "Sole dominator of Navarre." Shak. Jupiter and Mars are dominators for this northwest part of the world. Camden. 

DOMINE:  A West Indian fish (Epinula magistralis), of the family Trichiuridæ. It is a long-bodied, voracious fish. 

DOMINEER:  To rule with insolence or arbitrary sway; to play the master; to be overbearing; to tyrannize; to bluster; to swell with conscious superiority or haughtiness; -- often with over; as, to domineer over dependents. Go to the feast, revel and domineer. Shak. His wishes tend abroad to roam, And hers to domineer at home. Prior. 

DOMINEERING:  Ruling arrogantly; overbearing. A violent, brutal, domineering old reprobate. Blackw. Mag.  Syn.  -- Haughty; overbearing; lordly. See Imperious.  -- Dom`i*neer"ing*ly, adv. 

DOMINICAL:  The Lord's day or Sunday; also, the Lord's prayer. [Obs.] 

DOMINICAN:  Of or pertaining to St. Dominic (Dominic de Guzman), or to the religions communities named from him. Dominican nuns, an order of nuns founded by St. Dominic, and chiefly employed in teaching.  -- Dominican tertiaries (the third order of St. Dominic). See Tertiary. 

DOMINICAN:  One of an order of mendicant monks founded by Dominic de Guzman, in 1215. A province of the order was established in England in 1221. The first foundation in the United States was made in 1807. The Master of the Sacred Palace at Rome is always a Dominican friar. The Dominicans are called also preaching friars, friars preachers, black friars (from their black cloak), brothers of St. Mary, and in France, Jacobins. 

DOMINION:  A supposed high order of angels; dominations. See Domination, 3. Milton. By him were all things created . . . whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers. Col. i. 16.  Syn.  -- Sovereignty; control; rule; authority; jurisdiction; government; territory; district; region.  DOMINION DAY Do*min"ion Day.  In Canada, a legal holiday, July lst, being the anniversary of the proclamation of the formation of the Dominion in 1867. 

DOMINO:  A game played by two or more persons, with twenty-eight pieces of wood, bone, or ivory, of a flat, oblong shape, plain at the back, but on the face divided by a line in the middle, and either left blank or variously dotted after the manner of dice. The game is played by matching the spots or the blank of an unmatched half of a domino already played Hoyle.  7. One of the pieces with which the game of dominoes is played. Hoyle. fall like dominoes. To fall sequentially, as when one object in a line, by falling against the next object, causes it in turn to fall, and that second object causes a third to fall, etc.; the process can be repeated an indefinite number of times. Derived from an entertainment using dominoes arranged in a row, each standing on edge and therefore easily knocked over; when the first is made to fall against the next, it starts a sequence which ends when all have fallen. For amusement, people have arranged such sequences involving thousands of dominoes, arrayed in fanciful patterns. Domino theory. A political theory current in the 1960's, according to which the conversion of one country in South Asia to communism will start a sequential process causing all Asian countries to convert to Communism. The apparent assumption was that an Asian country with a Western orientation was as politically unstable as a domino standing on edge. Used by some as a justification for American involvement in the Vietnam war, 1964-1972.  DOMINO WHIST Dom"i*no whist.  A game of cards in which the suits are played in sequence, beginning with a 5 or 9, the player who gets rid of his cards first being the winner. 

DOMINUS:  Master; sir; -- a title of respect formerly applied to a knight or a clergyman, and sometimes to the lord of a manor. Cowell. 

DOMITABLE:  That can be tamed. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

DOMITE:  A grayish variety of trachyte; -- so called from the Puy-de- Dôme in Auvergne, France, where it is found. 

DON:  To put on; to dress in; to invest one's self with. Should I don this robe and trouble you. Shak. At night, or in the rain, He dons a surcoat which he doffs at morn. Emerson.  DONA; DONYA Do"ña, n. Etym: [Sp. doña. See Duenna.]  Lady; mistress; madam; -- a title of respect used in Spain, prefixed to the Christian name of a lady. 

DONABLE:  Capable of being donated or given. [R.] 

DONARY:  A thing given to a sacred use. [R.] Burton. 

DONAT:  A grammar. [Obs.] [Written also donet.] 

DONATARY:  See Donatory. 

DONATE:  To give; to bestow; to present; as, to donate fifty thousand dollars to a college. 

DONATION:  The act or contract by which a person voluntarily transfers the title to a thing of which be is the owner, from himself to another, without any consideration, as a free gift. Bouvier. Donation party, a party assembled at the house of some one, as of a clergyman, each one bringing some present. [U.S.] Bartlett.  Syn.  -- Gift; present; benefaction; grant. See Gift. 

DONATISM:  The tenets of the Donatists. 

DONATIST:  A follower of Donatus, the leader of a body of North African schismatics and purists, who greatly disturbed the church in the 4th century. They claimed to be the true church. 

DONATISTIC:  Pertaining to Donatism. 

DONATIVE:  A benefice conferred on a person by the founder or patron, without either presentation or institution by the ordinary, or induction by his orders. See the Note under Benefice, n.,  3. 

DONATIVE:  Vested or vesting by donation; as, a donative advowson. Blackstone. 

DONATOR:  One who makes a gift; a donor; a giver. 

DONATORY:  A donee of the crown; one the whom, upon certain condition, escheated property is made over.  DO-NAUGHT Do"-naught`, n. Etym: [Do + naught.]  A lazy, good-for-nothing fellow. 

DONAX:  A canelike grass of southern Europe (Arundo Donax), used for fishing rods, etc. 

DONCELLA:  A handsome fish of Florida and the West Indies (Platyglossus radiatus). The name is applied also to the ladyfish (Harpe rufa) of the same region. 

DONE:  p. p. from Do, and formerly the infinitive.  1. Performed; executed; finished.  2. It is done or agreed; let it be a match or bargain; -- used elliptically. Done brown, a phrase in cookery; applied figuratively to one who has been thoroughly deceived, cheated, or fooled. [Colloq.] -- Done for, tired out; used up; collapsed; destroyed; dead; killed. [Colloq.] -- Done up. (a) Wrapped up. (b) Worn out; exhausted. [Colloq.] 

DONE:  Given; executed; issued; made public; -- used chiefly in the clause giving the date of a proclamation or public act. 

DONEE:  Anciently, one to whom lands were given; in later use, one to whom lands and tenements are given in tail; in modern use, one on whom a power is conferred for execution; -- sometimes called the appointor. 

DONET:  Same as Donat. Piers Plowman. 

DONI:  A clumsy craft, having one mast with a long sail, used for trading purposes on the coasts of Coromandel and Ceylon. [Written also dhony, doney, and done.]  Balfour. 

DONIFEROUS:  Bearing gifts. [R.] 

DONJON:  The chief tower, also called the keep; a massive tower in ancient castles, forming the strongest part of the fortifications. See Illust. of Castle. 

DONNA:  A lady; madam; mistress; -- the title given a lady in Italy. 

DONNAT:  See Do-naught. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

DONNEE:  Lit., given; hence, in a literary work, as a drama or tale, that which is assumed as to characters, situation, etc., as a basis for the plot or story.  W. E. Henley.  That favorite romance donnée of the heir kept out of his own. Saintsbury. 

DONNISM:  Self-importance; loftiness of carriage. [Cant, Eng. Universities] 

DONOR:  One who grants an estate; in later use, one who confers a power; -- the opposite of donee. Kent. Touching, the parties unto deeds and charters, we are to consider as well the donors and granters as the donees or grantees. Spelman.  DO-NOTHING Do"-noth`ing, a.  Doing nothing; inactive; idle; lazy; as, a do-nothing policy.  DO-NOTHINGISM; DO-NOTHINGNESS Do"-noth`ing*ism, Do"-noth`ing*ness, n.  Inactivity; habitual sloth; idleness. [Jocular] Carlyle. Miss Austen. 

DONSHIP:  The quality or rank of a don, gentleman, or knight. Hudibras. 

DONZEL:  A young squire, or knight's attendant; a page. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

DOO:  A dove. [Scot.]  DOOB GRASS Doob" grass`. Etym: [Hind. d.] (Bot.)  A perennial, creeping grass (Cynodon dactylon), highly prized, in Hindostan, as food for cattle, and acclimated in the United States. [Written also doub grass.] 

DOODLE:  A trifler; a simple fellow. 

DOODLESACK:  The Scotch bagpipe. [Prov. Eng.] 

DOOLE:  Sorrow; dole. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DOOLY:  A kind of litter suspended from men's shoulders, for carrying persons or things; a palanquin. [Written also doolee and doolie.] [East Indies] Having provided doolies, or little bamboo chairs slung on four men's shoulders, in which I put my papers and boxes, we next morning commenced the ascent. J. D. Hooker. 

DOOMAGE:  A penalty or fine for neglect. [Local, New England] 

DOOMFUL:  Full of condemnation or destructive power. [R.] "That doomful deluge." Drayton.  DOOM PALM Doom" palm`. Etym: [Ar. daum, dum: cf. F. doume.] (Bot.)  A species of palm tree (Hyphæne Thebaica), highly valued for the fibrous pulp of its fruit, which has the flavor of gingerbread, and is largely eaten in Egypt and Abyssinia. [Written also doum palm.] 

DOOMSMAN:  A judge; an umpire. [Obs.] Hampole. 

DOOMSTER:  Same as Dempster. [Scot.] 

DOORCASE:  The surrounding frame into which a door shuts. 

DOORCHEEK:  The jamb or sidepiece of a door. Ex. xii. 22 (Douay version). 

DOORGA:  A Hindoo divinity, the consort of Siva, represented with ten arms. [Written also Durga.] Malcom. 

DOORING:  The frame of a door. Milton. 

DOORKEEPER:  One who guards the entrance of a house or apartment; a porter; a janitor. 

DOORLESS:  Without a door. 

DOORNAIL:  The nail or knob on which in ancient doors the knocker struck; -- hence the old saying, "As dead as a doornail." 

DOORPLANE:  A plane on a door, giving the name, and sometimes the employment, of the occupant. 

DOORPOST:  The jamb or sidepiece of a doorway. 

DOORSILL:  The sill or threshold of a door. 

DOORSTEAD:  Entrance or place of a door. [Obs. or Local] Bp. Warburton. 

DOORSTEP:  The stone or plank forming a step before an outer door. 

DOORSTONE:  The stone forming a threshold. 

DOORSTOP:  The block or strip of wood or similar material which stops, at the right place, the shutting of a door. 

DOORWAY:  The passage of a door; entrance way into a house or a room. 

DOORYARD:  A yard in front of a house or around the door of a house.  DOP; DOOP Dop, Doop, n.  A little copper cup in which a diamond is held while being cut. 

DOP:  To dip. [Obs.] Walton. 

DOP:  A dip; a low courtesy. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

DOPE:  A chart of previous performances, etc., of race horses. [Race- track Slang] 

DOPEY:  Affected by "dope"; esp., sluggish or dull as though under the influence of a narcotic. [Slang] 

DOPPELGANGER:  A spiritual or ghostly double or counterpart; esp., an apparitional double of a living person; a cowalker. 

DOPPER:  An Anabaptist or Baptist. [Contemptuous] B. Jonson. 

DOPPLERITE:  A brownish black native hydrocarbon occurring in elastic or jellylike masses. 

DOQUET:  A warrant. See Docket. 

DOR:  A large European scaraboid beetle (Geotrupes stercorarius), which makes a droning noise while flying. The name is also applied to allied American species, as the June bug. Called also dorr, dorbeetle, or dorrbeetle, dorbug, dorrfly, and buzzard clock. 

DOR:  A trick, joke, or deception. Beau. & Fl. To give one the dor, to make a fool of him. [Archaic] P. Fletcher. 

DOR:  To make a fool of; to deceive. [Obs.] [Written also dorr.] B. Jonson. 

DORADO:  A southern constellation, within which is the south pole of the ecliptic; -- called also sometimes Xiphias, or the Swordfish.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large, oceanic fish of the genus Coryphæna. 

DORBEETLE:  See 1st Dor. 

DOREE:  A European marine fish (Zeus faber), of a yellow color. See Illust. of John Doree.  Note: The popular name in England is John Doree, or Dory, well known to be a corruption of F. jaune-dorée, i. e., golden-yellow. See 1st Dory. 

DORETREE:  A doorpost. [Obs.] "As dead as a doretree." Piers Plowman. 

DORHAWK:  The European goatsucker; -- so called because it eats the dor beetle. See Goatsucker. [Written also dorrhawk.] Booth. 

DORIAN:  Same as Doric, 3. "Dorian mood." Milton. Dorian mode (Mus.), the first of the authentic church modes or tones, from D to D, resembling our D minor scale, but with the B natural. Grove. 

DORIAN:  A native or inhabitant of Doris in Greece. 

DORIC:  Belonging to, or resembling, the oldest and simplest of the three orders of architecture used by the Greeks, but ranked as second of the five orders adopted by the Romans. See Abacus, Capital, Order.  Note: This order is distinguished, according to the treatment of details, as Grecian Doric, or Roman Doric.  3. (Mus.)  Of or relating to one of the ancient Greek musical modes or keys. Its character was adapted both to religions occasions and to war. 

DORIC:  The Doric dialect. 

DORICISM:  A Doric phrase or idiom. 

DORIS:  A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks having a wreath of branchiæ on the back. 

DORISM:  A Doric phrase or idiom.  DORKING FOWL Dor"king fowl`. Etym: [From the town of Dorking in England.] (Zoöl.)  One of a breed of large-bodied domestic fowls, having five toes, or the hind toe double. There are several strains, as the white, gray, and silver-gray. They are highly esteemed for the table. 

DORMANCY:  The state of being dormant; quiescence; abeyance. 

DORMANT:  In a sleeping posture; as, a lion dormant; -- distinguished from couchant. Dormant partner (Com.), a partner who takes no share in the active business of a company or partnership, but is entitled to a share of the profits, and subject to a share in losses; -- called also sleeping or silent partner.  -- Dormant window (Arch.), a dormer window. See Dormer.  -- Table dormant, a stationary table. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DORMANT:  A large beam in the roof of a house upon which portions of the other timbers rest or " sleep." Arch. Pub. Soc.  -- Called also dormant tree, dorman tree, dormond, and dormer. Halliwell.  DORMER; DORMER WINDOW Dor"mer, or Dor"mer win"dow (, n. Etym: [Literally, the window of a sleeping apartment. F. dormir to sleep. See Dormant, a. & n.] (Arch.)  A window pierced in a roof, and so set as to be vertical while the roof slopes away from it. Also, the gablet, or houselike structure, in which it is contained. 

DORMITIVE:  Causing sleep; as, the dormitive properties of opium. Clarke.  -- n. (Med.)  A medicine to promote sleep; a soporific; an opiate. 

DORMOUSE:  A small European rodent of the genus Myoxus, of several species. They live in trees and feed on nuts, acorns, etc.; -- so called because they are usually torpid in winter. 

DORMY:  Up, or ahead, as many holes as remain to be played; -- said of a player or side.   A player who is dormy can not be beaten, and at the worst must halve the match. Encyc. of Sport. 

DORN:  A British ray; the thornback.  DORNICK; DORNOCK Dor"nick, or Dor"nock, n.  A coarse sort of damask, originally made at Tournay (in Flemish, Doornick), Belgium, and used for hangings, carpets, etc. Also, a stout figured linen manufactured in Scotland. [Formerly written also darnex, dornic, dorneck, etc.] Halliwell. Jamieson.  Note: Ure says that dornock, a kind of stout figured linen, derives its name from a town in Scotland where it was first manufactured for tablecloths. 

DORP:  A hamlet. "A mean fishing dorp." Howell. 

DORR:  The dorbeetle; also, a drone or an idler. See 1st Dor. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

DORRFLY:  See 1st Dor. 

DORRHAWK:  See Dorhawk. 

DORSAD:  Toward the dorsum or back; on the dorsal side; dorsally. 

DORSAL:  Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of an animal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; as, the dorsal fin of a fish; the dorsal artery of the tongue; -- opposed to ventral.  2. (Bot.) (a) Pertaining to the surface naturally inferior, as of a leaf. (b) Pertaining to the surface naturally superior, as of a creeping hepatic moss. Dorsal vessel (Zoöl.), a central pulsating blood vessel along the back of insects, acting as a heart. 

DORSAL:  A hanging, usually of rich stuff, at the back of a throne, or of an altar, or in any similar position. 

DORSALE:  Same as Dorsal, n. 

DORSALLY:  On, or toward, the dorsum, or back; on the dorsal side of; dorsad. 

DORSE:  The Baltic or variable cod (Gadus callarias), by some believed to be the young of the common codfish. 

DORSER:  See Dosser. 

DORSIBRANCHIATA:  A division of chætopod annelids in which the branchiæ are along the back, on each side, or on the parapodia. [See Illusts. under Annelida and Chætopoda.] 

DORSIBRANCHIATE:  Having branchiæ along the back; belonging to the Dorsibranchiata.  -- n.  One of the Dorsibranchiata. 

DORSIFEROUS:  Bearing, or producing, on the back; -- applied to ferns which produce seeds on the back of the leaf, and to certain Batrachia, the ova of which become attached to the skin of the back of the parent, where they develop; dorsiparous. 

DORSIMESON:  (Anat.) See Meson. 

DORSIPAROUS:  Same as Dorsiferous. 

DORSIVENTRAL:  Having distinct upper and lower surfaces, as most common leaves. The leaves of the iris are not dorsiventral.  2. (Anat.)  See Dorsoventral. 

DORSOVENTRAL:  From the dorsal to the ventral side of an animal; as, the dorsoventral axis. 

DORSUM:  The back or dorsal region of an animal; the upper side of an appendage or part; as, the dorsum of the tongue.  DORTOUR; DORTURE Dor"tour, Dor"ture, n. Etym: [F. dortoir, fr. L. dormitorium.]  A dormitory. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DORY:  A European fish. See Doree, and John Doree.  2. (Zoöl.)  The American wall-eyed perch; -- called also doré. See Pike perch. 

DORY:  A small, strong, flat-bottomed rowboat, with sharp prow and flaring sides. 

DORYPHORA:  A genus of plant-eating beetles, including the potato beetle. See Potato beetle. 

DORYPHOROS:  A spear bearer; a statue of a man holding a spear or in the attitude of a spear bearer. Several important sculptures of this subject existed in antiquity, copies of which remain to us. 

DOSAGE:  The administration of medicine in doses; specif., a scheme or system of grading doses of medicine according to age, etc.  2.  The process of adding some ingredient, as to wine, to give flavor, character, or strength.  DOS--DOS Dos`-à-dos", adv. [F.]  Back to back; as, to sit dos-à-dos in a dogcart; to dance dos- à-dos, or so that two dancers move forward and pass back to back.  DOS--DOS Dos`-à-dos", n.  A sofa, open carriage, or the like, so constructed that the occupants sit back to back. 

DOSEL:  Same as Dorsal, n. [R.] 

DOSIMETRY:  Measurement of doses; specif., a system of therapeutics which uses but few remedies, mostly alkaloids, and gives them in doses fixed by certain rules. --Do`si*met"ric (#), a. --Do*sim"e*trist (#), n. 

DOSOLOGY:  Posology. [R.] Ogilvie. 

DOSS:  A place to sleep in; a bed; hence, sleep. [Slang] 

DOSSEL:  Same as Dorsal, n. 

DOSSER:  A cheap lodging house.  They [street Arabs] consort together and sleep in low doss houses where they meet with all kinds of villainy. W. Besant. 

DOSSIER:  A bundle containing the papers in reference to some matter. 

DOSSIL:  A small ovoid or cylindrical roil or pledget of lint, for keeping a sore, wound, etc., open; a tent.  2. (Printing)  A roll of cloth for wiping off the face of a copperplate, leaving the ink in the engraved lines. 

DOST:  of Do. 

DOT:  A marriage portion; dowry. [Louisiana] 

DOT:  To make dots or specks. 

DOTAL:  Pertaining to dower, or a woman's marriage portion; constituting dower, or comprised in it. Garth. 

DOTANT:  A dotard. [Obs.] Shak. 

DOTARD:  One whose mind is impaired by age; one in second childhood. The sickly dotard wants a wife. Prior. 

DOTARDLY:  Foolish; weak. Dr. H. More. 

DOTARY:  A dotard's weakness; dotage. [Obs.] Drayton. 

DOTE:  Natural endowments. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

DOTE:  An imbecile; a dotard. Halliwell. 

DOTEHEAD:  A dotard. [R.] Tyndale. 

DOTERY:  The acts or speech of a dotard; drivel. [R.] 

DOTH:  of Do. 

DOTING:  That dotes; silly; excessively fond.  -- Dot"ing*ly, adv.  -- Dot"ing*ness, n. 

DOTISH:  Foolish; weak; imbecile. Sir W. Scott. 

DOTTARD:  An old, decayed tree. [R.] Bacon. 

DOTTED:  Marked with, or made of, dots or small spots; diversified with small, detached objects. Dotted note (Mus.), a note followed by a dot to indicate an increase of length equal to one half of its simple value; thus, a dotted semibreve is equal to three minims, and a dotted quarter to three eighth notes.  -- Dotted rest, a rest lengthened by a dot in the same manner as a dotted note.  Note: Notes and rests are sometimes followed by two dots, to indicate an increase of length equal to three quarters of their simple value, and they are then said to be double-dotted. 

DOTTEREL:  Decayed. "Some old dotterel trees." [Obs.] Ascham. 

DOTTEREL:  A European bird of the Plover family (Eudromias, or Charadrius, morinellus). It is tame and easily taken, and is popularly believed to imitate the movements of the fowler. In catching of dotterels we see how the foolish bird playeth the ape in gestures. Bacon.  Note: The ringed dotterel (or ring plover) is Charadrius hiaticula.  2. A silly fellow; a dupe; a gull. Barrow.  DOTTING PEN Dot"ting pen`.  See under Pun. 

DOTTREL:  See Dotterel. 

DOTY:  Half-rotten; as, doty timber. [Local, U. S.] 

DOUANE:  A customhouse. 

DOUANIER:  An officer of the French customs. [Anglicized form douaneer.] 

DOUAR:  A village composed of Arab tents arranged in streets.  DOUAY BIBLE Dou"ay Bi"ble. Etym: [From Douay, or Douai, a town in France.]  A translation of the Scriptures into the English language for the use of English-speaking Roman Catholics; -- done from the Latin Vulgate by English scholars resident in France. The New Testament portion was published at Rheims, A. D. 1582, the Old Testament at Douai, A. D. 1609-10. Various revised editions have since been published. [Written also Doway Bible. Called also the Rheims and Douay version.]  DOUB GRASS Doub" grass`.(Bot.)  Doob grass. 

DOUBLE:  Having the petals in a flower considerably increased beyond the natural number, usually as the result of cultivation and the expense of the stamens, or stamens and pistils. The white water lily and some other plants have their blossoms naturally double.  Note: Double is often used as the first part of a compound word, generally denoting two ways, or twice the number, quantity, force, etc., twofold, or having two. Double base, or Double bass (Mus.), the largest and lowest-toned instrument in the violin form; the contrabasso or violone.  -- Double convex. See under Convex.  -- Double counterpoint (Mus.), that species of counterpoint or composition, in which two of the parts may be inverted, by setting one of them an octave higher or lower.  -- Double court (Lawn Tennis), a court laid out for four players, two on each side.  -- Double dagger (Print.), a reference mark (||) next to the dagger (|) in order; a diesis.  -- Double drum (Mus.), a large drum that is beaten at both ends.  -- Double eagle, a gold coin of the United States having the value of 20 dollars.  -- Double entry. See under Bookkeeping.  -- Double floor (Arch.), a floor in which binding joists support flooring joists above and ceiling joists below. See Illust. of Double-framed floor.  -- Double flower. See Double, a., 4.  -- Double-framed floor (Arch.), a double floor having girders into which the binding joists are framed.  -- Double fugue (Mus.), a fugue on two subjects.  -- Double letter. (a) (Print.) Two letters on one shank; a ligature. (b) A mail requiring double postage.  -- Double note (Mus.), a note of double the length of the semibreve; a breve. See Breve.  -- Double octave (Mus.), an interval composed of two octaves, or fifteen notes, in diatonic progression; a fifteenth.  -- Double pica. See under Pica.  -- Double play (Baseball), a play by which two players are put out at the same time.  -- Double plea (Law), a plea alleging several matters in answer to the declaration, where either of such matters alone would be a sufficient bar to the action. Stephen.  -- Double point (Geom.), a point of a curve at which two branches cross each other. Conjugate or isolated points of a curve are called double points, since they possess most of the properties of double points (see Conjugate). They are also called acnodes, and those points where the branches of the curve really cross are called crunodes. The extremity of a cusp is also a double point.  -- Double quarrel. (Eccl. Law) See Duplex querela, under Duplex.  -- Double refraction. (Opt.) See Refraction.  -- Double salt. (Chem.) (a) A mixed salt of any polybasic acid which has been saturated by different bases or basic radicals, as the double carbonate of sodium and potassium, NaKCO3.6H2O. (b) A molecular combination of two distinct salts, as common alum, which consists of the sulphate of aluminium, and the sulphate of potassium or ammonium.  -- Double shuffle, a low, noisy dance.  -- Double standard (Polit. Econ.), a double standard of monetary values; i. e., a gold standard and a silver standard, both of which are made legal tender.  -- Double star (Astron.), two stars so near to each other as to be seen separate only by means of a telescope. Such stars may be only optically near to each other, or may be physically connected so that they revolve round their common center of gravity, and in the latter case are called also binary stars.  -- Double time (Mil.). Same as Double-quick.  -- Double window, a window having two sets of glazed sashes with an air space between them. 

DOUBLE:  Twice; doubly. I was double their age. Swift. 

DOUBLE:  To unite, as ranks or files, so as to form one from each two. 

DOUBLE:  To set up a word or words a second time by mistake; to make a doublet. To double upon (Mil.), to inclose between two fires. 

DOUBLE:  A feast in which the antiphon is doubled, hat is, said twice, before and after the Psalms, instead of only half being said, as in simple feasts. Shipley.  9. (Lawn Tennis)  A game between two pairs of players; as, a first prize for doubles.  10. (Mus.)  An old term for a variation, as in Bach's Suites.  DOUBLE-ACTING Dou"ble-act`ing, a.  Acting or operating in two directions or with both motions; producing a twofold result; as, a double-acting engine or pump.  DOUBLE-BANK Dou"ble-bank", v. t. (Naut.)  To row by rowers sitting side by side in twos on a bank or thwart. To double-bank an oar, to set two men to pulling one oar.  DOUBLE-BANKED Dou"ble-banked`, a.  Applied to a kind of rowing in which the rowers sit side by side in twos, a pair of oars being worked from each bank or thwart.  DOUBLE-BARRELED; DOUBLE-BARRELLED Dou"ble-bar`reled, or Dou"ble-bar`relled, a.  Having two barrels; -- applied to a gun.  DOUBLE-BEAT VALVE Dou"ble-beat` valve".  See under Valve.  DOUBLE-BREASTED Dou"ble-breast`ed, a.  Folding or lapping over on the breast, with a row of buttons and buttonholes on each side; as, a double-breasted coat.  DOUBLE-CHARGE Dou"ble-charge`, v. t.  1. To load with a double charge, as of gunpowder.  2. To overcharge. Shak.  DOUBLE DEALER Dou"ble deal"er.  One who practices double dealing; a deceitful, trickish person. L'Estrange.  DOUBLE DEALING Dou"ble deal"ing.  False or deceitful dealing. See Double dealing, under Dealing. Shak.  DOUBLE-DECKER Dou"ble-deck"er, n.  1. (Naut.)  A man-of-war having two gun decks.  2. A public conveyance, as a street car, with seats on the roof. [Colloq.]  DOUBLE-DYE Dou"ble-dye`, v. t.  To dye again or twice over. To double-dye their robes in scarlet. J. Webster.  DOUBLE-DYED Dou"ble-dyed`, a.  Dyed twice; thoroughly or intensely colored; hence; firmly fixed in opinions or habits; as, a double-dyed villain.  DOUBLE-ENDER Dou"ble-end"er, n. (a) (Naut.) A vessel capable of moving in either direction, having bow and rudder at each end. (b) (Railroad)  A locomotive with pilot at each end. Knight.  DOUBLE-ENTENDRE Dou"ble-en*ten"dre, n. Etym: [F. double double + entendre to mean. This is a barbarous compound of French words. The true French equivalent is double entente.]  A word or expression admitting of a double interpretation, one of which is often obscure or indelicate.  DOUBLE-EYED Dou"ble-eyed`, a.  Having a deceitful look. [R.] "Deceitful meanings is double- eyed." Spenser.  DOUBLE-FACED Dou"ble-faced`, a.  1. Having two faces designed for use; as, a double-faced hammer.  2. Deceitful; hypocritical; treacherous. Milton.  DOUBLE FIRST Dou"ble first`. (Eng. Universities) (a) A degree of the first class both in classics and mathematics. (b) One who gains at examinations the highest honor both in the classics and the mathematics. Beaconsfield. 

DOUBLEGANGER:  An apparition or double of a living person; a doppelgänger.  Either you are Hereward, or you are his doubleganger. C. Kingsley.  DOUBLE-HANDED Dou"ble-hand"ed, a.  1. Having two hands.  2. Deceitful; deceptive. Glanvill.  DOUBLE-HEADED Dou"ble-head"ed, a.  Having two heads; bicipital. Double-headed rail (Railroad), a rail whose flanges are duplicates, so that when one is worn the other may be turned uppermost. 

DOUBLEHEARTED:  Having a false heart; deceitful; treacherous. Sandys.  DOUBLE-HUNG Dou"ble-hung`, a.  Having both sashes hung with weights and cords; -- said of a window.  DOUBLE-LOCK Dou"ble-lock`, v. t.  To lock with two bolts; to fasten with double security. Tatler.  DOUBLE-MILLED Dou"ble-milled`, a.  Twice milled or fulled, to render more compact or fine; -- said of cloth; as, double-milled kerseymere. 

DOUBLEMINDED:  Having different minds at different times; unsettled; undetermined. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. Jas. i. 8. 

DOUBLENESS:  Cinch (the game).  DOUBLE-QUICK Dou"ble-quick`, a. (Mil.)  Of, or performed in, the fastest time or step in marching, next to the run; as, a double-quick step or march.  DOUBLE-QUICK Dou"ble-quick`, n.  Double-quick time, step, or march.  Note: Double-quick time requires 165 steps, each 33 inches in length, to be taken in one minute. The number of steps may be increased up to 180 per minute.  DOUBLE-QUICK Dou"ble-quick`, v. i. & t. (Mil.)  To move, or cause to move, in double-quick time. 

DOUBLER:  An instrument for augmenting a very small quantity of electricity, so as to render it manifest by sparks or the electroscope.  DOUBLE-RIPPER Dou"ble-rip"per, n.  A kind of coasting sled, made of two sleds fastened together with a board, one before the other. [Local, U. S.]  DOUBLE-SHADE Dou"ble-shade`, v. t.  To double the natural darkness of (a place). Milton.  DOUBLE-SURFACED Dou"ble-sur"faced, a.  Having two surfaces; -- said specif. of aëroplane wings or aërocurves which are covered on both sides with fabric, etc., thus completely inclosing their frames. 

DOUBLET:  A word or words unintentionally doubled or set up a second time.  3. A close-fitting garment for men, covering the body from the neck to the waist or a little below. It was worn in Western Europe from the 15th to the 17th century.  4. (Lapidary Work)  A counterfeit gem, composed of two pieces of crystal, with a color them, and thus giving the appearance of a naturally colored gem. Also, a piece of paste or glass covered by a veneer of real stone.  5. (Opt.)  An arrangement of two lenses for a microscope, designed to correct spherical aberration and chromatic dispersion, thus rendering the image of an object more clear and distinct. W. H. Wollaston.  6. pl. (See No. 1.)  Two dice, each of which, when thrown, has the same number of spots on the face lying uppermost; as, to throw doublets.  7. pl. Etym: [Cf. Pr. doblier, dobler draughtboard.]  A game somewhat like backgammon. Halliwell.  8. One of two or more words in the same language derived by different courses from the same original from; as, crypt and grot are doublets; also, guard and ward; yard and garden; abridge and abbreviate, etc. 

DOUBLETHREADED:  Having two screw threads instead of one; -- said of a screw in which the pitch is equal to twice the distance between the centers of adjacent threads.  DOUBLE-TONGUE Dou"ble-tongue`, n.  Deceit; duplicity. Now cometh the sin of double-tongue, such as speak fair before folk and wickedly behind. Chaucer.  DOUBLE-TONGUED Dou"ble-tongued`, a.  Making contrary declarations on the same subject; deceitful. Likewise must the deacons be grave, not double-tongued. 1 Tim. iii. 8.  DOUBLE-TONGUING Dou"ble-tongu`ing, n. (Mus.)  A peculiar action of the tongue by flute players in articulating staccato notes; also, the rapid repetition of notes in cornet playing. 

DOUBLETREE:  The bar, or crosspiece, of a carriage, to which the singletrees are attached. 

DOUBLETS:  See Doublet, 6 and 7. 

DOUBLING:  The lining of the mantle borne about the shield or escutcheon.  4. The process of redistilling spirits, to improve the strength and flavor. Doubling a cape, promontory, etc. (Naut.), sailing around or passing beyond a cape, promontory, etc. 

DOUBLOON:  A Spanish gold coin, no longer issued, varying in value at different times from over fifteen dollars to about five. See Doblon in Sup. 

DOUBTANCE:  State of being in doubt; uncertainty; doubt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DOUBTER:  One who doubts; one whose opinion is unsettled; one who scruples. 

DOUBTFULLY:  In a doubtful manner. Nor did the goddess doubtfully declare. Dryden. 

DOUBTING:  That is uncertain; that distrusts or hesitates; having doubts.  -- Doubt"ing*ly, adv. 

DOUBTLESS:  Free from fear or suspicion. [Obs.] Pretty child, sleep doubtless and secure. Shak. 

DOUBTLESS:  Undoubtedly; without doubt. 

DOUBTLESSLY:  Unquestionably. Beau. & Fl. 

DOUBTOUS:  Doubtful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DOUC:  A monkey (Semnopithecus nemæus), remarkable for its varied and brilliant colors. It is a native of Cochin China. 

DOUCEPERE:  One of the twelve peers of France, companions of Charlemagne in war. [Written also douzepere.] [Obs.] Big-looking like a doughty doucepere. Spenser.  DOUCET; DOWSET Dou"cet, Dow"set, n. Etym: [F. doucet sweet, dim. of doux. See Douce.]  1. A custard. [Obs.]  2. A dowcet, or deep's testicle. 

DOUCHE:  A syringe. 

DOUCINE:  Same as Cyma, under Cyma. 

DOUCKER:  A grebe or diver; -- applied also to the golden-eye, pochard, scoter, and other ducks. [Written also ducker.] [Prov. Eng.] 

DOUGH:  Imperfectly baked; hence, not brought to perfection; unfinished; also, of weak or dull understanding. [Colloq.] Halliwell. 

DOUGHBIRD:  The Eskimo curlew (Numenius borealis). See Curlew. 

DOUGHFACE:  A contemptuous nickname for a timid, yielding politician, or one who is easily molded. [Political cant, U. S.]  DOUGH-FACED Dough"-faced`, a.  Easily molded; pliable. 

DOUGHFACEISM:  The character of a doughface; truckling pliability. 

DOUGHINESS:  The quality or state of being doughy.  DOUGH-KNEADED Dough"-knead`ed, a.  Like dough; soft. He demeans himself . . . like a dough-kneaded thing. Milton. 

DOUGHNUT:  A small cake (usually sweetened) fried in a kettle of boiling lard. 

DOUGHTILY:  In a doughty manner. 

DOUGHTINESS:  The quality of being doughty; valor; bravery. 

DOUGHTREN:  Daughters. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DOUGHTY:  Able; strong; valiant; redoubtable; as, a doughty hero. Sir Thopas wex [grew] a doughty swain. Chaucer. Doughty families, hugging old musty quarrels to their hearts, buffet each other from generation to generation. Motley.  Note: Now seldom used, except in irony or burlesque. 

DOUGHY:  Like dough; soft and heavy; pasty; crude; flabby and pale; as, a doughy complexion. 

DOULOCRACY:  A government by slaves. [Written also dulocracy.] Hare.  DOUM PALM Doum" palm` (doom" päm`).  See Doom palm. 

DOUPE:  The carrion crow. [Written also dob.] [Prov. Eng.] 

DOUR:  Hard; inflexible; obstinate; sour in aspect; hardy; bold. [Scot.] A dour wife, a sour old carlin. C. Reade. 

DOURA:  A kind of millet. See Durra. 

DOUROUCOULI:  See Durukuli. 

DOUSE:  To strike or lower in haste; to slacken suddenly; as, douse the topsail. 

DOUSE:  To fall suddenly into water. Hudibras. 

DOUSE:  To put out; to extinguish. [Slang] " To douse the glim." Sir W. Scott.  DOUSING-CHOCK Dous"ing-chock`, n. (Shipbuilding)  One of several pieces fayed across the apron and lapped in the knightheads, or inside planking above the upper deck. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

DOUT:  To put out. [Obs.] "It douts the light." Sylvester. 

DOUTER:  An extinguisher for candles. [Obs.] 

DOVE:  A pigeon of the genus Columba and various related genera. The species are numerous.  Note: The domestic dove, including the varieties called fantails, tumblers, carrier pigeons, etc., was derived from the rock pigeon (Columba livia) of Europe and Asia; the turtledove of Europe, celebrated for its sweet, plaintive note, is C. turtur or Turtur vulgaris; the ringdove, the largest of European species, is C. palumbus; the Carolina dove, or Mourning dove, is Zenaidura macroura; the sea dove is the little auk (Mergulus alle or Alle alle). See Turtledove, Ground dove, and Rock pigeon. The dove is a symbol of innocence, gentleness, and affection; also, in art and in the Scriptures, the typical symbol of the Holy Ghost.  2. A word of endearment for one regarded as pure and gentle. O my dove, . . . let me hear thy voice. Cant. ii. 14. Dove tick (Zoöl.), a mite (Argas reflexus) which infests doves and other birds.  -- Soiled dove, a prostitute. [Slang]  DOVECOT; DOVECOTE Dove"cot`, Dove"cote`, n.  A small house or box, raised to a considerable height above the ground, and having compartments, in which domestic pigeons breed; a dove house. Like an eagle in a dovecote, I Fluttered your Volscians in Corioli. Shak.  DOVE-EYED Dove"-eyed`, a.  Having eyes like a dove; meekeyed; as, dove-eyed Peace. 

DOVEKIE:  A guillemot (Uria grylle), of the arctic regions. Also applied to the little auk or sea dove. See under Dove. 

DOVELET:  A young or small dove. Booth. 

DOVELIKE:  Mild as a dove; gentle; pure and lovable. Longfellow.  DOVE PLANT Dove" plant`. (Bot.)  A Central American orchid (Peristeria elata), having a flower stem five or six feet high, with numerous globose white fragrant flowers. The column in the center of the flower resembles a dove; -- called also Holy Spirit plant.  DOVER'S POWDER Do"ver's Pow"der. Etym: [From Dr. Dover, an English physician.] (Med.)  A powder of ipecac and opium, compounded, in the United States, with sugar of milk, but in England (as formerly in the United States) with sulphate of potash, and in France (as in Dr. Dover's original prescription) with nitrate and sulphate of potash and licorice. It is an anodyne diaphoretic.  DOVE'S-FOOT Dove's"-foot`, n. (Bot.) (a) A small annual species of Geranium, native in England; -- so called from the shape of the leaf. (b) The columbine. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

DOVESHIP:  The possession of dovelike qualities, harmlessness and innocence. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

DOVETAIL:  A flaring tenon, or tongue (shaped like a bird's tail spread), and a mortise, or socket, into which it fits tightly, making an interlocking joint between two pieces which resists pulling a part in all directions except one. Dovetail molding (Arch.), a molding of any convex section arranged in a sort of zigzag, like a series of dovetails.  -- Dovetail saw (Carp.), a saw used in dovetailing. 

DOVISH:  Like a dove; harmless; innocent. "Joined with dovish simplicity." Latimer. 

DOW:  A kind of vessel. See Dhow. 

DOW:  To furnish with a dower; to endow. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

DOWABLE:  Capable of being endowed; entitled to dower. Blackstone. 

DOWAGER:  A widow endowed, or having a jointure; a widow who either enjoys a dower from her deceased husband, or has property of her own brought by her to her husband on marriage, and settled on her after his decease. Blount. Burrill.  2. A title given in England to a widow, to distinguish her from the wife of her husband's heir bearing the same name; -- chiefly applied to widows of personages of rank. With prudes for proctors, dowagers for deans. Tennyson. Queen dowager, the widow of a king. 

DOWAGERISM:  The rank or condition of a dowager; formality, as that of a dowager. Also used figuratively. Mansions that have passed away into dowagerism. Thackeray. 

DOWCET:  One of the testicles of a hart or stag. [Spelt also doucet.] B. Jonson. 

DOWDY:  Showing a vulgar taste in dress; awkward and slovenly in dress; vulgar-looking.  -- Dow"di*ly, adv.  -- Dow"di*ness, n. 

DOWDY:  An awkward, vulgarly dressed, inelegant woman. Shak. Dryden. 

DOWDYISH:  Like a dowdy. 

DOWEL:  To fasten together by dowels; to furnish with dowels; as, a cooper dowels pieces for the head of a cask. 

DOWER:  That portion of the real estate of a man which his widow enjoys during her life, or to which a woman is entitled after the death of her husband. Blackstone.  Note: Dower, in modern use, is and should be distinguished from dowry. The former is a provision for a widow on her husband's death; the latter is a bride's portion on her marriage. Abbott. Assignment of dower. See under Assignment. 

DOWERED:  Furnished with, or as with, dower or a marriage portion. Shak. 

DOWERLESS:  Destitute of dower; having no marriage portion. Shak. 

DOWERY:  See Dower. 

DOWITCHER:  The red-breasted or gray snipe (Macrorhamphus griseus); -- called also brownback, and grayback. 

DOWL:  Same as Dowle. 

DOWLAS:  A coarse linen cloth made in the north of England and in Scotland, now nearly replaced by calico. Shak. 

DOWLE:  Feathery or wool-like down; filament of a feather. Shak. No feather, or dowle of a feather. De Quincey. 

DOWN:  To cover, ornament, line, or stuff with down. [R.] Young. 

DOWN:  A road for shipping in the English Channel or Straits of Dover, near Deal, employed as a naval rendezvous in time of war. On the 11th [June, 1771] we run up the channel . . . at noon we were abreast of Dover, and about three came to an anchor in the Downs, and went ashore at Deal. Cook (First Voyage).  4. pl. Etym: [From the adverb.]  A state of depression; low state; abasement. [Colloq.] It the downs of life too much outnumber the ups. M. Arnold. 

DOWN:  To cause to go down; to make descend; to put down; to overthrow, as in wrestling; hence, to subdue; to bring down. [Archaic or Colloq.] "To down proud hearts." Sir P. Sidney. I remember how you downed Beauclerk and Hamilton, the wits, once at our house. Madame D'Arblay. 

DOWN:  To go down; to descend. Locke. 

DOWNBEAR:  To bear down; to depress. 

DOWNCAST:  Cast downward; directed to the ground, from bashfulness, modesty, dejection, or guilt. 'T is love, said she; and then my downcast eyes, And guilty dumbness, witnessed my surprise. Dryden. - Down"cast`ly, adv.  -- Down"cast`ness, n. 

DOWNCAST:  A ventilating shaft down which the air passes in circulating through a mine. 

DOWNCOME:  A pipe for leading combustible gases downward from the top of the blast furnace to the hot-blast stoves, boilers, etc., where they are burned. 

DOWNFALLEN:  Fallen; ruined. Carew. 

DOWNFALLING:  Falling down. 

DOWNGYVED:  Hanging down like gyves or fetters. [Poetic & Rare] Shak. 

DOWNHAUL:  A rope to haul down, or to assist in hauling down, a sail; as, a staysail downhaul; a trysail downhaul. 

DOWNHEARTED:  Dejected; low-spirited. 

DOWNHILL:  Towards the bottom of a hill; as, water runs downhill. 

DOWNHILL:  Declivous; descending; sloping. "A downhill greensward." Congrewe. 

DOWNHILL:  Declivity; descent; slope. On th' icy downhills of this slippery life. Du Bartas (Trans. ). 

DOWNINESS:  The quality or state of being downy. 

DOWNLOOKED:  Having a downcast countenance; dejected; gloomy; sullen. [R.] Dryden. 

DOWNLYING:  The time of retiring to rest; time of repose. Cavendish. At the downlying, at the travail in childbirth. [Scot.] 

DOWNPOUR:  A pouring or streaming downwards; esp., a heavy or continuous shower. 

DOWNRIGHT:  A breastplow used in paring off turf on downs. [Eng.] Knight. 

DOWNSITTING:  The act of sitting down; repose; a resting. Thou knowest my downsitting and my uprising. Ps. cxxxix. 2. 

DOWNSTAIRS:  Down the stairs; to a lower floor.  -- a.  Below stairs; as, a downstairs room. 

DOWNSTEEPY:  Very steep. [Obs.] Florio. 

DOWNSTREAM:  Down the stream; as, floating downstream. 

DOWNSTROKE:  A stroke made with a downward motion of the pen or pencil. 

DOWNTHROW:  The sudden drop or depression of the strata of rocks on one side of a fault. See Throw, n.  DOWNTROD; DOWNTRODDEN Down"trod`, Down"trod`den, a.  Trodden down; trampled down; abused by superior power. Shak.  DOWNWARD; DOWNWARDS Down"ward, Down"wards, adv. Etym: [AS. ad. See Down, adv., and - ward.]  1. From a higher place to a lower; in a descending course; as, to tend, move, roll, look, or take root, downward or downwards. "Looking downwards." Pope. Their heads they downward bent. Drayton.  2. From a higher to a lower condition; toward misery, humility, disgrace, or ruin. And downward fell into a groveling swine. Milton.  3. From a remote time; from an ancestor or predecessor; from one to another in a descending line. A ring the county wears, That downward hath descended in his house, From son to son, some four or five descents. Shak. 

DOWNWEED:  Cudweed, a species of Gnaphalium. 

DOWNWEIGH:  To weigh or press down. A different sin downweighs them to the bottom. Longfellow.  DOWN-WIND Down"-wind`, adv.  With the wind. 

DOWRAL:  Of or relating to a dower. [R.] 

DOWRESS:  A woman entitled to dower. Bouvier. 

DOWSE:  To beat or thrash. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

DOWSE:  To use the dipping or divining rod, as in search of water, ore, etc. Adams had the reputation of having dowsed successfully for more than a hundred wells. Eng. Cyc. 

DOWSE:  A blow on the face. [Low] Colman. 

DOWST:  A dowse. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

DOWVE:  A dove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DOXOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to doxology; giving praise to God. Howell. 

DOXOLOGIZE:  To give glory to God, as in a doxology; to praise God with doxologies. 

DOXOLOGY:  In Christian worship: A hymn expressing praise and honor to God; a form of praise to God designed to be sung or chanted by the choir or the congregation. David breaks forth into these triumphant praises and doxologies. South. 

DOXY:  A loose wench; a disreputable sweetheart. Shak. 

DOYEN:  Lit., a dean; the senior member of a body or group; as, the doyen of French physicians. "This doyen of newspapers."  A. R. Colquhoun. 

DOYLY:  See Doily. 

DOZE:  To slumber; to sleep lightly; to be in a dull or stupefied condition, as if half asleep; to be drowsy. If he happened to doze a little, the jolly cobbler waked him. L'Estrange. 

DOZE:  A light sleep; a drowse. Tennyson. 

DOZENTH:  Twelfth. [R.] 

DOZER:  One who dozes or drowses. 

DOZINESS:  The state of being dozy; drowsiness; inclination to sleep. 

DOZY:  Drowsy; inclined to doze; sleepy; sluggish; as, a dozy head. Dryden. 

DOZZLED:  Stupid; heavy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

DRAB:  To associate with strumpets; to wench. Beau. & Fl. 

DRAB:  Of a color between gray and brown.  -- n.  A drab color. 

DRABBER:  One who associates with drabs; a wencher. Massinger. 

DRABBET:  A coarse linen fabric, or duck. 

DRABBISH:  Somewhat drab in color. 

DRABBISH:  Having the character of a drab or low wench. "The drabbish sorceress." Drant. 

DRABBLE:  To draggle; to wet and befoul by draggling; as, to drabble a gown or cloak. Halliwell. 

DRABBLE:  To fish with a long line and rod; as, to drabble for barbels. 

DRABBLER:  A piece of canvas fastened by lacing to the bonnet of a sail, to give it a greater depth, or more drop.  DRABBLE-TAIL Drab"ble-tail`, n.  A draggle-tail; a slattern. Halliwell. 

DRACAENA:  A genus of liliaceous plants with woody stems and funnel-shaped flowers.  Note: Dracæna Draco, the source of the dragon's blood of the Canaries, forms a tree, sometimes of gigantic size. 

DRACANTH:  A kind of gum; -- called also gum tragacanth, or tragacanth. See Tragacanth. 

DRACHME:  See Drachma. 

DRACIN:  See Draconin. 

DRACO:  The Dragon, a northern constellation within which is the north pole of the ecliptic.  2. A luminous exhalation from marshy grounds.  3. (Zoöl.)  A genus of lizards. See Dragon, 6. 

DRACONIAN:  Pertaining to Draco, a famous lawgiver of Athens, 621 b. c. Draconian code, or Draconian laws, a code of laws made by Draco. Their measures were so severe that they were said to be written in letters of blood; hence, any laws of excessive rigor. 

DRACONIC:  Relating to Draco, the Athenian lawgiver; or to the constellation Draco; or to dragon's blood. 

DRACONIN:  A red resin forming the essential basis of dragon's blood; -- called also dracin. 

DRACONTIC:  Belonging to that space of time in which the moon performs one revolution, from ascending node to ascending node. See Dragon's head, under Dragon. [Obs.] "Dracontic month." Crabb. 

DRACONTINE:  Belonging to a dragon. Southey. 

DRAD:  Dreaded. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DRADDE:  of Dread. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DRADGE:  Inferior ore, separated from the better by cobbing. Raymond. 

DRAFF:  Refuse; lees; dregs; the wash given to swine or cows; hogwash; waste matter. Prodigals lately come from swine keeping, from eating draff and husks. Shak. The draff and offal of a bygone age. Buckle. Mere chaff and draff, much better burnt. Tennyson. 

DRAFF:  A selecting or detaching of soldiers from an army, or from any part of it, or from a military post; also from any district, or any company or collection of persons, or from the people at large; also, the body of men thus drafted. Several of the States had supplied the deficiency by drafts to serve for the year. Marshall.  3. An order from one person or party to another, directing the payment of money; a bill of exchange. I thought it most prudent to deter the drafts till advice was received of the progress of the loan. A. Hamilton.  4. An allowance or deduction made from the gross veight of goods. Simmonds.  5. A drawing of lines for a plan; a plan delineated, or drawn in outline; a delineation. See Draught.  6. The form of any writing as first drawn up; the first rough sketch of written composition, to be filled in, or completed. See Draught.  7. (Masonry) (a) A narrow border left on a finished stone, worked differently from the rest of its face. (b) A narrow border worked to a plane surface along the edge of a stone, or across its face, as a guide to the stone-cutter.  8. (Milling)  The slant given to the furrows in the dress of a millstone.  9. (Naut.)  Depth of water necessary to float a ship. See Draught.  10. A current of air. Same as Draught. 

DRAFFISH:  Worthless; draffy. Bale. 

DRAFFY:  Dreggy; waste; worthless. The dregs and draffy part. Beau. & Fl. 

DRAFTSMAN:  See Draughtsman. 

DRAG:  A confection; a comfit; a drug. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DRAG:  The bottom part of a flask or mold, the upper part being the cope.  9. (Masonry)  A steel instrument for completing the dressing of soft stone.  10. (Marine Engin.)  The difference between the speed of a screw steamer under sail and that of the screw when the ship outruns the screw; or between the propulsive effects of the different floats of a paddle wheel. See Citation under Drag, v. i., 3. Drag sail (Naut.), a sail or canvas rigged on a stout frame, to be dragged by a vessel through the water in order to keep her head to the wind or to prevent drifting; -- called also drift sail, drag sheet, drag anchor, sea anchor, floating anchor, etc.  -- Drag twist (Mining), a spiral hook at the end of a rod for cleaning drilled holes. 

DRAGANTINE:  A mucilage obtained from, or containing, gun tragacanth. 

DRAGBAR:  Same as Drawbar (b). Called also draglink, and drawlink. [U. S.] 

DRAGBOLT:  A coupling pin. See under Coupling. [U. S.] 

DRAGEES:  Sugar-coated medicines. 

DRAGGLE:  To wet and soil by dragging on the ground, mud, or wet grass; to drabble; to trail. Gray. With draggled nets down-hanging to the tide. Trench. 

DRAGGLE:  To be dragged on the ground; to become wet or dirty by being dragged or trailed in the mud or wet grass. Hudibras.  DRAGGLE-TAIL Drag"gle-tail`, n.  A slattern who suffers her gown to trail in the mire; a drabble-tail.  DRAGGLE-TAILED Drag"gle-tailed`, a.  Untidy; sluttish; slatternly. W. Irving.  DRAG LINE; DRAG ROPE Drag line or drag rope . (Aëronautics)  A guide rope. 

DRAGMAN:  A fisherman who uses a dragnet. Sir M. Hale. 

DRAGNET:  A net to be drawn along the bottom of a body of water, as in fishing. 

DRAGOMAN:  An interpreter; -- so called in the Levant and other parts of the East. 

DRAGON:  A fabulous animal, generally represented as a monstrous winged serpent or lizard, with a crested head and enormous claws, and regarded as very powerful and ferocious. The dragons which appear in early paintings and sculptures are invariably representations of a winged crocodile. Fairholt.  Note: In Scripture the term dragon refers to any great monster, whether of the land or sea, usually to some kind of serpent or reptile, sometimes to land serpents of a powerful and deadly kind. It is also applied metaphorically to Satan. Thou breakest the heads of the dragons in the waters. Ps. lxxiv. 13. Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder; the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet. Ps. xci. 13. He laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil and Satan, and bound him a thousand years. Rev. xx. 2.  2. A fierce, violent person, esp. a woman. Johnson.  3. (Astron.)  A constellation of the northern hemisphere figured as a dragon; Draco.  4. A luminous exhalation from marshy grounds, seeming to move through the air as a winged serpent.  5. (Mil. Antiq.)  A short musket hooked to a swivel attached to a soldier's belt; -- so called from a representation of a dragon's head at the muzzle. Fairholt.  6. (Zoöl.)  A small arboreal lizard of the genus Draco, of several species, found in the East Indies and Southern Asia. Five or six of the hind ribs, on each side, are prolonged and covered with weblike skin, forming a sort of wing. These prolongations aid them in making long leaps from tree to tree. Called also flying lizard.  7. (Zoöl.)  A variety of carrier pigeon.  8. (Her.)  A fabulous winged creature, sometimes borne as a charge in a coat of arms.  Note: Dragon is often used adjectively, or in combination, in the sense of relating to, resembling, or characteristic of, a dragon. Dragon arum (Bot.), the name of several species of Arisæma, a genus of plants having a spathe and spadix. See Dragon root(below).  -- Dragon fish (Zoöl.), the dragonet.  -- Dragon fly (Zoöl.), any insect of the family Libellulidæ. They have finely formed, large and strongly reticulated wings, a large head with enormous eyes, and a long body; -- called also mosquito hawks. Their larvæ are aquatic and insectivorous.  -- Dragon root (Bot.), an American aroid plant (Arisæma Dracontium); green dragon.  -- Dragon's blood, a resinous substance obtained from the fruit of several species of Calamus, esp. from C. Rotang and C. Draco, growing in the East Indies. A substance known as dragon's blood is obtained by exudation from Dracæna Draco; also from Pterocarpus Draco, a tree of the West Indies and South America. The color is red, or a dark brownish red, and it is used chiefly for coloring varnishes, marbles, etc. Called also Cinnabar Græcorum.  -- Dragon's head. (a) (Bot.) A plant of several species of the genus Dracocephalum. They are perennial herbs closely allied to the common catnip. (b) (Astron.) The ascending node of a planet, indicated, chiefly in almanacs, by the symbol Encyc. Brit.  -- Dragon shell (Zoöl.), a species of limpet.  -- Dragon's skin, fossil stems whose leaf scars somewhat resemble the scales of reptiles; -- a name used by miners and quarrymen. Stormonth.  -- Dragon's tail (Astron.), the descending node of a planet, indicated by the symbol Dragon's head (above).  -- Dragon's wort (Bot.), a plant of the genus Artemisia (A. dracunculus).  -- Dragon tree (Bot.), a West African liliaceous tree (Dracæna Draco), yielding one of the resins called dragon's blood. See Dracæna.  -- Dragon water, a medicinal remedy very popular in the earlier half of the 17th century. "Dragon water may do good upon him." Randolph (1640).  -- Flying dragon, a large meteoric fireball; a bolide. 

DRAGONET:  A small British marine fish (Callionymuslyra); -- called also yellow sculpin, fox, and gowdie. 

DRAGONISH:  resembling a dragon. Shak. 

DRAGONLIKE:  Like a dragon. Shak. 

DRAGONNADE:  The severe persecution of French Protestants under Louis XIV., by an armed force, usually of dragoons; hence, a rapid and devastating incursion; dragoonade. He learnt it as he watched the dragonnades, the tortures, the massacres of the Netherlands. C. Kingsley.  DRAGON'S BLOOD; DRAGON'S HEAD; DRAGON'S TAIL Drag"on's blood, Drag"on's head, Drag"on's tail.  See Dragon's blood, Dragon's head, etc., under Dragon. 

DRAGOON:  Formerly, a soldier who was taught and armed to serve either on horseback or on foot; now, a mounted soldier; a cavalry man.  2. A variety of pigeon. Clarke. Dragoon bird (Zoöl.), the umbrella bird. 

DRAGOONADE:  See Dragonnade. 

DRAGOONER:  A dragoon. [Obs.] 

DRAIL:  To trail; to draggle. [Obs.] South. 

DRAIN:  The grain from the mashing tub; as, brewers' drains. [Eng.] Halliwell. Box drain, Counter drain. See under Box, Counter.  -- Right of drain (Law), an easement or servitude by which one man has a right to convey water in pipes through or over the estate of another. Kent. 

DRAINABLE:  Capable of being drained. 

DRAINAGE:  The system of drains and their operation, by which superfluous water is removed from towns, railway beds, mines, and other works.  4. Area or district drained; as, the drainage of the Po, the Thames, etc. Latham.  5. (Surg.)  The act, process, or means of drawing off the pus or fluids from a wound, abscess, etc. Drainage tube (Surg.), a tube introduced into a wound, etc., to draw off the discharges. 

DRAINE:  The missel thrush. 

DRAINER:  One who, or that which, drains. 

DRAINING:  The art of carrying off surplus water, as from land. Draining tile. Same as Draintile. 

DRAINPIPE:  A pipe used for carrying off surplus water. 

DRAINTILE:  A hollow tile used in making drains; -- called also draining tile. 

DRAINTRAP:  See 4th Trap, 5. 

DRAKE:  The drake fly. The drake will mount steeple height into the air. Walton. Drake fly, a kind of fly, sometimes used in angling. The dark drake fly, good in August. Walton. 

DRAKE:  Wild oats, brome grass, or darnel grass; -- called also drawk, dravick, and drank. [Prov. Eng.] Dr. Prior. 

DRAKESTONE:  A flat stone so thrown along the surface of water as to skip from point to point before it sinks; also, the sport of so throwing stones; -- sometimes called ducks and drakes. Internal earthquakes, that, not content with one throe, run along spasmodically, like boys playing at what is called drakestone. De Quincey. 

DRAM:  A Persian daric. Ezra ii. 69. Fluid dram, or Fluid drachm. See under Fluid. 

DRAM:  To drink drams; to ply with drams. [Low] Johnson. Thackeray. 

DRAMA:  Of or pertaining to the drama; appropriate to, or having the qualities of, a drama; theatrical; vivid. The emperor . . . performed his part with much dramatic effect. Motley. 

DRAMATICALLY:  In a dramatic manner; theatrically; vividly.  DRAMATIS PERSONAE Dram"a*tis per*so"næ. Etym: [L.]  The actors in a drama or play. 

DRAMATIST:  The author of a dramatic composition; a writer of plays. 

DRAMATIZABLE:  Capable of being dramatized. 

DRAMATIZATION:  Act of dramatizing. 

DRAMATIZE:  To compose in the form of the drama; to represent in a drama; to adapt to dramatic representation; as, to dramatize a novel, or an historical episode. They dramatized tyranny for public execration. Motley. 

DRAMATURGIC:  Relating to dramaturgy. 

DRAMATURGIST:  One versed in dramaturgy. Carlyle. 

DRAMATURGY:  The art of dramatic composition and representation. 

DRAMMING:  The practice of drinking drams. 

DRAMSELLER:  One who sells distilled liquors by the dram or glass. 

DRAMSHOP:  A shop or barroom where spirits are sold by the dram. 

DRANK:  of Drink. 

DRANK:  Wild oats, or darnel grass. See Drake a plant. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  DRAP D'ETE Drap` d'é*té". Etym: [F., clot of summer.]  A thin woolen fabric, twilled like merino. 

DRAPER:  One who sells cloths; a dealer in cloths; as, a draper and tailor. 

DRAPERIED:  Covered or supplied with drapery. [R.] Byron. 

DRAPET:  Cloth. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DRASTIC:  Acting rapidly and violently; efficacious; powerful; -- opposed to bland; as, drastic purgatives.  -- n. (Med.)  A violent purgative. See Cathartic. 

DRASTY:  Filthy; worthless. [Obs.] "Drasty ryming." Chaucer. 

DRAUGH:  See Draft. [Obs.] 

DRAUGHT:  The act of selecting or detaching soldiers; a draft (see Draft, n., 2) (g) The act of drawing up, marking out, or delineating; representation. Dryden.  2. That which is drawn; as: (a) That which is taken by sweeping with a net. Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. Luke v. 4. He laid down his pipe, and cast his net, which brought him a very great draught. L'Estrange. (b) (Mil.)  The force drawn; a detachment; -- in this sense usually written draft. (c) The quantity drawn in at once in drinking; a potion or potation. Disguise thyself as thou wilt, still, Slavery, . . . still thou art a bitter draught. Sterne. Low lies that house where nut-brown draughts inspired. Goldsmith.  (d) A sketch, outline, or representation, whether written, designed, or drawn; a delineation. A draught of a Toleration Act was offered to the Parliament by a private member. Macaulay. No picture or draught of these things from the report of the eye. South. (e) (Com.)  An order for the payment of money; -- in this sense almost always written draft. (f) A current of air moving through an inclosed place, as through a room or up a chimney. Thackeray. He preferred to go and sit upon the stairs, in . . . a strong draught of air, until he was again sent for. Dickens.  3. That which draws; as: (a) A team of oxen or horses. Blackstone. (b) A sink or drain; a privy. Shak. Matt. xv. 17. (c) pl. (Med.)  A mild vesicatory; a sinapism; as, to apply draughts to the feet.  4. Capacity of being drawn; force necessary to draw; traction. The Hertfordshire wheel plow . . . is of the easiest draught. Mortimer.  5. (Naut.)  The depth of water necessary to float a ship, or the depth a ship sinks in water, especially when laden; as, a ship of twelve feet draught.  6. (Com.)  An allowance on weighable goods. [Eng.] See Draft,  4.  7. A move, as at chess or checkers. [Obs.] Chaucer.  8. The bevel given to the pattern for a casting, in order that it may be drawn from the sand without injury to the mold.  9. (Masonry)  See Draft, n.,  7. Angle of draught, the angle made with the plane over which a body is drawn by the line in which the pulling force acts, when the latter has the direction best adapted to overcome the obstacles of friction and the weight of the body.  -- Black draught. See under Black, a.  -- Blast draught, or Forced draught, the draught produced by a blower, as by blowing in air beneath a fire or drawing out the gases from above it.  -- Natural draught, the draught produced by the atmosphere flowing, by its own weight, into a chimney wherein the air is rarefied by heat.  -- On draught, so as to be drawn from the wood (as a cask, barrel, etc.) in distinction from being bottled; as, ale on draught.  -- Sheer draught. See under Sheer. 

DRAUGHTBOARD:  A checkered board on which draughts are played. See Checkerboard. 

DRAUGHTHOUSE:  A house for the reception of waste matter; a privy. [Obs.] 2 Kings x. 27. 

DRAUGHTS:  A mild vesicatory. See Draught, n., 3 (c). 

DRAUGHTS:  A game, now more commonly called checkers. See Checkers.  Note: Polish draughts is sometimes played with 40 pieces on a board divided into 100 squares. Am. Cyc. 

DRAUGHTSMANSHIP:  The office, art, or work of a draughtsman. 

DRAUGHTY:  Pertaining to a draught, or current of air; as, a draughtly, comfortless room. 

DRAVE:  , old imp. of Drive. [Obs.] 

DRAVIDA:  A race Hindostan, believed to be the original people who occupied the land before the Hindoo or Aryan invasion. 

DRAVIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Dravida. Dravidian languages, a group of languages of Southern India, which seem to have been the idioms of the natives, before the invasion of tribes speaking Sanskrit. Of these languages, the Tamil is the most important. 

DRAW:  To have efficiency as an epispastic; to act as a sinapism; -- said of a blister, poultice, etc.  5. To have draught, as a chimney, flue, or the like; to furnish transmission to smoke, gases, etc.  6. To unsheathe a weapon, especially a sword. So soon as ever thou seest him, draw; and as thou drawest, swear horrible. Shak.  7. To perform the act, or practice the art, of delineation; to sketch; to form figures or pictures. "Skill in drawing." Locke.  8. To become contracted; to shrink. "To draw into less room." Bacon.  9. To move; to come or go; literally, to draw one's self; -- with prepositions and adverbs; as, to draw away, to move off, esp. in racing, to get in front; to obtain the lead or increase it; to draw back, to retreat; to draw level, to move up even (with another); to come up to or overtake another; to draw off, to retire or retreat; to draw on, to advance; to draw up, to form in array; to draw near, nigh, or towards, to approach; to draw together, to come together, to collect.  10. To make a draft or written demand for payment of money deposited or due; -- usually with on or upon. You may draw on me for the expenses of your journey. Jay.  11. To admit the action of pulling or dragging; to undergo draught; as, a carriage draws easily.  12. To sink in water; to require a depth for floating. "Greater hulks draw deep." Shak. To draw to a head. (a) (Med.) To begin to suppurate; to ripen, as a boil. (b) Fig.: To ripen, to approach the time for action; as, the plot draws to a head. 

DRAWABLE:  Capable of being drawn. 

DRAWBACK:  Money paid back or remitted; especially, a certain amount of duties or customs, sometimes the whole, and sometimes only a part, remitted or paid back by the government, on the exportation of the commodities on which they were levied. M 

DRAWBENCH:  A machine in which strips of metal are drawn through a drawplate; especially, one in which wire is thus made; -- also called drawing bench. 

DRAWBOLT:  A coupling pin. See under Coupling. 

DRAWBORE:  A hole bored through a tenon nearer to the shoulder than the holes through the cheeks are to the edge or abutment against which the shoulder is to rest, so that a pin or bolt, when driven into it, will draw these parts together. Weale. 

DRAWBOY:  A boy who operates the harness cords of a hand loom; also, a part of power loom that performs the same office. 

DRAWBRIDGE:  A bridge of which either the whole or a part is made to be raised up, let down, or drawn or turned aside, to admit or hinder communication at pleasure, as before the gate of a town or castle, or over a navigable river or canal.  Note: The movable portion, or draw, is called, specifically, a bascule, balance, or lifting bridge, a turning, swivel, or swing bridge, or a rolling bridge, according as it turns on a hinge vertically, or on a pivot horizontally, or is pushed on rollers. 

DRAWCANSIR:  A blustering, bullying fellow; a pot-valiant braggart; a bully. The leader was of an ugly look and gigantic stature; he acted like a drawcansir, sparing neither friend nor foe. Addison.  DRAW-CUT Draw"-cut`, n.  A single cut with a knife. 

DRAWEE:  The person on whom an order or bill of exchange is drawn; -- the correlative of drawer. 

DRAWER:  An under-garment worn on the lower limbs. Chest of drawers. See under Chest. 

DRAWFILING:  The process of smooth filing by working the file sidewise instead of lengthwise. 

DRAWGEAR:  The means or parts by which cars are connected to be drawn. 

DRAWGLOVES:  An old game, played by holding up the fingers. Herrick. 

DRAWHEAD:  The flanged outer end of a drawbar; also, a name applied to the drawgear. 

DRAWING:  The process of pulling out and elongating the sliver from the carding machine, by revolving rollers, to prepare it for spinning.  5. The distribution of prizes and blanks in a lottery.  Note: Drawing is used adjectively or as the first part of compounds in the sense of pertaining to drawing, for drawing (in the sense of pulling, and of pictorial representation); as, drawing master or drawing-master, drawing knife or drawing-knife, drawing machine, drawing board, drawing paper, drawing pen, drawing pencil, etc. A drawing of tea, a small portion of tea for steeping.  -- Drawing knife. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Drawing paper (Fine Arts), a thick, sized paper for draughtsman and for water-color painting.  -- Drawing slate, a soft, slaty substance used in crayon drawing; -- called also black chalk, or drawing chalk.  -- Free-hand drawing, a style of drawing made without the use of guiding or measuring instruments, as distinguished from mechanical or geometrical drawing; also, a drawing thus executed.  DRAWING KNIFE; DRAWKNIFE Draw"ing knife", Draw"knife`, n.  1. A joiner's tool having a blade with a handle at each end, used to shave off surfaces, by drawing it toward one; a shave; -- called also drawshave, and drawing shave.  2. (Carp.)  A tool used for the purpose of making an incision along the path a saw is to follow, to prevent it from tearing the surface of the wood.  DRAWING-ROOM Draw"ing-room`, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. withdraw-ing-room.]  1. A room appropriated for the reception of company; a room to which company withdraws from the dining room.  2. The company assembled in such a room; also, a reception of company in it; as, to hold a drawing-room. He [Johnson] would amaze a drawing-room by suddenly ejaculating a clause of the Lord's Prayer. Macaulay. Drawing-room car. See Palace car, under Car. 

DRAWL:  To utter in a slow, lengthened tone. 

DRAWL:  To speak with slow and lingering utterance, from laziness, lack of spirit, affectation, etc. Theologians and moralists . . . talk mostly in a drawling and dreaming way about it. Landor. 

DRAWL:  A lengthened, slow monotonous utterance. 

DRAWLATCH:  A housebreaker or thief. [Obs.] Old Play (1631). 

DRAWLING:  The act of speaking with a drawl; a drawl.  -- Drawl"ing*ly, adv. Bacon. 

DRAWLINK:  Same as Drawbar (b). 

DRAWN:  See Draw, v. t. & i. Drawn butter, butter melter and prepared to be used as a sort of gravy.  -- Drawn fowl, an eviscerated fowl.  -- Drawn game or battle, one in which neither party wins; one equally contested.  -- Drawn fox, one driven from cover. Shak.  -- Drawn work, ornamental work made by drawing out threads from fine cloth, and uniting the cross threads, to form a pattern. 

DRAWNET:  A net for catching the larger sorts of birds; also, a dragnet. Crabb. 

DRAWPLATE:  A hardened steel plate having a hole, or a gradation of conical holes, through which wires are drawn to be reduced and elongated. 

DRAWROD:  A rod which unites the drawgear at opposite ends of the car, and bears the pull required to draw the train. 

DRAWSHAVE:  See Drawing knife. 

DRAWSPRING:  The spring to which a drawbar is attached. 

DRAY:  A squirrel's nest. Cowper. 

DRAYMAN:  A man who attends a dray. 

DRAZEL:  A slut; a vagabond wench. Same as Drossel. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

DREAD:  To fear in a great degree; to regard, or look forward to, with terrific apprehension. When at length the moment dreaded through so many years came close, the dark cloud passed away from Johnson's mind. Macaulay. 

DREAD:  To be in dread, or great fear. Dread not, neither be afraid of them. Deut. i. 29. 

DREADABLE:  Worthy of being dreaded.  DREAD-BOLTED Dread"-bolt`ed, a.  Armed with dreaded bolts. "Dread-bolted thunder." [Poetic] Shak. 

DREADER:  One who fears, or lives in fear. 

DREADFULLY:  In a dreadful manner; terribly. Dryden. 

DREADFULNESS:  The quality of being dreadful. 

DREADINGLY:  With dread. Warner. 

DREADLESS:  Without doubt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DREADLESSNESS:  Freedom from dread. 

DREADLY:  Dreadful. [Obs.] "Dreadly spectacle." Spenser.  -- adv.  With dread. [Obs.] "Dreadly to shake." Sylvester (Du Bartas). 

DREAM:  To have a dream of; to see, or have a vision of, in sleep, or in idle fancy; -- often followed by an objective clause. Your old men shall dream dreams. Acts ii. 17. At length in sleep their bodies they compose, And dreamt the future fight. Dryden. And still they dream that they shall still succeed. Cowper. To dream away, out, through, etc., to pass in revery or inaction; to spend in idle vagaries; as, to dream away an hour; to dream through life. " Why does Antony dream out his hours" Dryden. 

DREAMFUL:  Full of dreams. " Dreamful ease." Tennyson.  -- Dream"ful*ly, adv. 

DREAMILY:  As if in a dream; softly; slowly; languidly. Longfellow. 

DREAMINESS:  The state of being dreamy. 

DREAMINGLY:  In a dreamy manner. 

DREAMLAND:  An unreal, delightful country such as in sometimes pictured in dreams; region of fancies; fairyland. [He] builds a bridge from dreamland for his lay. Lowell. 

DREAMLESS:  Free from, or without, dreams. Camden.  -- Dream"less*ly, adv. 

DREAMY:  Abounding in dreams or given to dreaming; appropriate to, or like, dreams; visionary. "The dreamy dells." Tennyson. 

DREAR:  Dismal; gloomy with solitude. "A drear and dying sound." Milton. 

DREAR:  Sadness; dismalness. [Obs.] Spenser.  DREARIHEAD; DREARIHOOD Drear"i*head, Drear"i*hood, n.  Affliction; dreariness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DREARILY:  Gloomily; dismally. 

DREARIMENT:  Dreariness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DREARING:  Sorrow. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DREARISOME:  Very dreary. Halliwell. 

DRECCHE:  To delay. [Obs.] Gower. 

DREDGE:  Very fine mineral matter held in suspension in water. Raymond. 

DREDGE:  To catch or gather with a dredge; to deepen with a dredging machine. R. Carew. Dredging machine, a machine (commonly on a boat) used to scoop up mud, gravel, or obstructions from the bottom of rivers, docks, etc., so as to deepen them. 

DREDGE:  A mixture of oats and barley. [Obs.] Kersey. 

DREDGE:  To sift or sprinkle flour, etc., on, as on roasting meat. Beau. & Fl. Dredging box. (a) Same as 2d Dredger. (b) (Gun.) A copper box with a perforated lid; -- used for sprinkling meal powder over shell fuses. Farrow. 

DREDGER:  A box with holes in its lid; -- used for sprinkling flour, as on meat or a breadboard; -- called also dredging box, drudger, and drudging box. 

DREE:  To endure; to suffer. [Scot.] 

DREE:  To be able to do or endure. [Obs.] 

DREE:  Wearisome; tedious. [Prov. Eng.] 

DREG:  Corrupt or defiling matter contained in a liquid, or precipitated from it; refuse; feculence; lees; grounds; sediment; hence, the vilest and most worthless part of anything; as, the dregs of society. We, the dregs and rubbish of mankind. Dryden.  Note: Used formerly (rarely) in the singular, as by Spenser and Shakespeare, but now chiefly in the plural. 

DREGGINESS:  Fullness of dregs or lees; foulness; feculence. 

DREGGISH:  Foul with lees; feculent. Harvey. 

DREGGY:  Containing dregs or lees; muddy; foul; feculent. Boyle. 

DREIBUND:  A triple alliance; specif., the alliance of Germany, Austria, and Italy, formed in 1882. 

DREIN:  To drain. [Obs.] Congreve.  DREINTE; DREINT Drein"te, imp., Dreint (,  p. p. of Drench to drown. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DREISSENA:  A genus of bivalve shells of which one species (D. polymorpha) is often so abundant as to be very troublesome in the fresh waters of Europe. 

DRENCH:  A drink; a draught; specifically, a potion of medicine poured or forced down the throat; also, a potion that causes purging. "A drench of wine." Dryden. Give my roan horse a drench. Shak. 

DRENCH:  A military vassal mentioned in Domesday Book. [Obs.] Burrill. 

DRENCHE:  To drown. [Obs.] In the sea he drenched. Chaucer. 

DRENGAGE:  The tenure by which a drench held land. [Obs.] Burrill. 

DRENT:  Drenched; drowned. [Obs.] "Condemned to be drent." Spenser.  DRESDEN WARE Dres"den ware`.  A superior kind of decorated porcelain made near Dresden in Saxony. 

DRESS:  To arrange in exact continuity of line, as soldiers; commonly to adjust to a straight line and at proper distance; to align; as, to dress the ranks.  3. (Med.)  To treat methodically with remedies, bandages, or curative appliances, as a sore, an ulcer, a wound, or a wounded or diseased part.  4. To adjust; to put in good order; to arrange; specifically: (a) To prepare for use; to fit for any use; to render suitable for an intended purpose; to get ready; as, to dress a slain animal; to dress meat; to dress leather or cloth; to dress or trim a lamp; to dress a garden; to dress a horse, by currying and rubbing; to dress grain, by cleansing it; in mining and metallurgy, to dress ores, by sorting and separating them.  And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it. Gen. ii. 15. When he dresseth the lamps he shall burn incense. Ex. xxx. 7. Three hundred horses . . . smoothly dressed. Dryden. Dressing their hair with the white sea flower. Tennyson . If he felt obliged to expostulate, he might have dressed his censures in a kinder form. Carlyle.  (b) To cut to proper dimensions, or give proper shape to, as to a tool by hammering; also, to smooth or finish. (c) To put in proper condition by appareling, as the body; to put clothes upon; to apparel; to invest with garments or rich decorations; to clothe; to deck. Dressed myself in such humility. Shak. Prove that ever Idress myself handsome till thy return. Shak.  (d) To break and train for use, as a horse or other animal. To dress up or out, to dress elaborately, artificially, or pompously. "You see very often a king of England or France dressed up like a Julius Cæsar." Addison.  -- To dress a ship (Naut.), to ornament her by hoisting the national colors at the peak and mastheads, and setting the jack forward; when dressed full, the signal flags and pennants are added. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  Syn.  -- To attire; apparel; clothe; accouter; array; robe; rig; trim; deck; adorn; embellish. 

DRESS:  To arrange one's self in due position in a line of soldiers; -- the word of command to form alignment in ranks; as, Right, dress!  2. To clothe or apparel one's self; to put on one's garments; to pay particular regard to dress; as, to dress quickly. "To dress for a ball." Latham. To flaunt, to dress, to dance, to thrum. Tennyson . To dress to the right, To dress to the left, To dress on the center (Mil.), to form alignment with reference to the soldier on the extreme right, or in the center, of the rank, who serves as a guide. 

DRESS:  The system of furrows on the face of a millstone. Knight. Dress circle. See under Circle.  -- Dress parade (Mil.), a parade in full uniform for review.  DRESS CIRCLE Dress circle.  A gallery or circle in a theater, generally the first above the floor, in which originally dress clothes were customarily worn.  DRESS COAT Dress" coat`.  A coat with skirts behind only, as distinct from the frock coat, of which the skirts surround the body. It is worn on occasions of ceremony. The dress coat of officers of the United States army is a full-skirted frock coat. 

DRESSER:  A kind of pick for shaping large coal.  3. An assistant in a hospital, whose office it is to dress wounds, sores, etc.  4. Etym: [F. dressoir. See Dress, v. t.] (a) A table or bench on which meat and other things are dressed, or prepared for use. (b) A cupboard or set of shelves to receive dishes and cooking utensils. The pewter plates on the dresser Caught and reflected the flame, as shields of armies the sunshine. Longfellow.  DRESS GOODS Dress" goods".  A term applied to fabrics for the gowns of women and girls; -- most commonly to fabrics of mixed materials, but also applicable to silks, printed linens, and calicoes. 

DRESSINESS:  The state of being dressy. 

DRESSING:  An application (a remedy, bandage, etc.) to a sore or wound. Wiseman.  3. Manure or compost over land. When it remains on the surface, it is called a top-dressing.  4. (Cookery) (a) A preparation to fit food for use; a condiment; as, a dressing for salad. (b) The stuffing of fowls, pigs, etc.; forcemeat.  5. Gum, starch, and the like, used in stiffening or finishing silk, linen, and other fabrics.  6. An ornamental finish, as a molding around doors, windows, or on a ceiling, etc.  7. Castigation; scolding; -- often with down. [Colloq.] Dressing case, a case of toilet utensils.  -- Dressing forceps, a variety of forceps, shaped like a pair of scissors, used in dressing wounds.  -- Dressing gown, a light gown, such as is used by a person while dressing; a study gown.  -- Dressing room, an apartment appropriated for making one's toilet.  -- Dressing table, a table at which a person may dress, and on which articles for the toilet stand.  -- Top-dressing, manure or compost spread over land and not worked into the soil. 

DRESSMAKER:  A maker of gowns, or similar garments; a mantuamaker. 

DRESSMAKING:  The art, process, or occupation, of making dresses. 

DRESSY:  Showy in dress; attentive to dress. A dressy flaunting maidservant. T. Hook. A neat, dressy gentleman in black. W. Irving. 

DREST:  of Dress. 

DRETCH:  See Drecche. [Obs.] 

DREUL:  To drool. [Obs.] 

DREVIL:  A fool; a drudge. See Drivel. 

DREW:  of Draw. 

DREY:  A squirrel's nest. See Dray. [Obs.] 

DREYE:  Dry. [Obs.] Chaucer.  DREYNTE; DREYNT Dreyn"te, imp., Dreynt (,  p. p., of Drench to drown. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DRIB:  To do by little and little; as: (a) To cut off by a little at a time; to crop. (b) To appropriate unlawfully; to filch; to defalcate. He who drives their bargain dribs a part. Dryden.  (c) To lead along step by step; to entice. With daily lies she dribs thee into cost. Dryden. 

DRIB:  To shoot (a shaft) so as to pierce on the descent. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

DRIB:  A drop. [Obs.] Swift. 

DRIBBER:  One who dribs; one who shoots weakly or badly. [Obs.] Ascham. 

DRIBBLE:  To let fall in drops. Let the cook . . . dribble it all the way upstairs. Swift. 

DRIBBLE:  A drizzling shower; a falling or leaking in drops. [Colloq.] 

DRIBBLER:  One who dribbles.  DRIBBLET; DRIBLET Drib"blet, Drib"let, n. Etym: [From Dribble.]  A small piece or part; a small sum; a small quantity of money in making up a sum; as, the money was paid in dribblets. When made up in dribblets, as they could, their best securities were at an interest of twelve per cent. Burke. 

DRIE:  To endure. [Obs.] So causeless such drede for to drie. Chaucer. 

DRIED:  of Day. Also adj.; as, dried apples. 

DRIER:  Drying oil; a substance mingled with the oil used in oil painting to make it dry quickly.  DRIER; DRIEST Dri"er, compar., Dri"est, superl.,  of Dry, a. 

DRIFT:  The horizontal thrust or pressure of an arch or vault upon the abutments. [R.] Knight.  7. (Geol.)  A collection of loose earth and rocks, or boulders, which have been distributed over large portions of the earth's surface, especially in latitudes north of forty degrees, by the agency of ice.  8. In South Africa, a ford in a river.  9. (Mech.)  A slightly tapered tool of steel for enlarging or shaping a hole in metal, by being forced or driven into or through it; a broach.  10. (Mil.) (a) A tool used in driving down compactly the composition contained in a rocket, or like firework. (b) A deviation from the line of fire, peculiar to oblong projectiles.  11. (Mining)  A passage driven or cut between shaft and shaft; a driftway; a small subterranean gallery; an adit or tunnel.  12. (Naut.) (a) The distance through which a current flows in a given time. (b) The angle which the line of a ship's motion makes with the meridian, in drifting. (c) The distance to which a vessel is carried off from her desired course by the wind, currents, or other causes. (d) The place in a deep-waisted vessel where the sheer is raised and the rail is cut off, and usually terminated with a scroll, or driftpiece. (e) The distance between the two blocks of a tackle.  13. The difference between the size of a bolt and the hole into which it is driven, or between the circumference of a hoop and that of the mast on which it is to be driven.  Note: Drift is used also either adjectively or as the first part of a compound. See Drift, a. Drift of the forest (O. Eng. Law), an examination or view of the cattle in a forest, in order to see whose they are, whether they are commonable, and to determine whether or not the forest is surcharged. Burrill. 

DRIFT:  to make a drift; to examine a vein or ledge for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of metals or ores; to follow a vein; to prospect. [U.S.] 

DRIFT:  To enlarge or shape, as a hole, with a drift. 

DRIFT:  That causes drifting or that is drifted; movable by wind or currents; as, drift currents; drift ice; drift mud. Kane. Drift anchor. See Sea anchor, and also Drag sail, under Drag, n.  -- Drift epoch (Geol.), the glacial epoch.  -- Drift net, a kind of fishing net.  -- Drift sail. Same as Drag sail. See under Drag, n. 

DRIFTBOLT:  A bolt for driving out other bolts. 

DRIFTLESS:  Having no drift or direction; without aim; purposeless. 

DRIFTPIECE:  An upright or curved piece of timber connecting the plank sheer with the gunwale; also, a scroll terminating a rail. 

DRIFTPIN:  A smooth drift. See Drift, n., 9. 

DRIFTWAY:  Same as Drift, 11. 

DRIFTWEED:  Seaweed drifted to the shore by the wind. Darwin. 

DRIFTWIND:  A driving wind; a wind that drives snow, sand, etc., into heaps. Beau. & Fl. 

DRIFTY:  Full of drifts; tending to form drifts, as snow, and the like. 

DRILL:  To practice an exercise or exercises; to train one's self. 

DRILL:  The act or exercise of training soldiers in the military art, as in the manual of arms, in the execution of evolutions, and the like; hence, diligent and strict instruction and exercise in the rudiments and methods of any business; a kind or method of military exercises; as, infantry drill; battalion drill; artillery drill.  3. Any exercise, physical or mental, enforced with regularity and by constant repetition; as, a severe drill in Latin grammar.  4. (Zoöl.)  A marine gastropod, of several species, which kills oysters and other bivalves by drilling holes through the shell. The most destructive kind is Urosalpinx cinerea. Bow drill, Breast drill. See under Bow, Breast.  -- Cotter drill, or Traverse drill, a machine tool for drilling slots.  -- Diamond drill. See under Diamond.  -- Drill jig. See under Jig.  -- Drill pin, the pin in a lock which enters the hollow stem of the key.  -- Drill sergeant (Mil.), a noncommissioned officer whose office it is to instruct soldiers as to their duties, and to train them to military exercises and evolutions.  -- Vertical drill, a drill press. 

DRILL:  A large African baboon (Cynocephalus leucophæus). 

DRILL:  Same as Drilling. Imperial drill, a linen fabric having two threads in the warp and three in the filling. 

DRILLER:  One who, or that which, drills. 

DRILLING:  The act of using a drill in sowing seeds. 

DRILLING:  A heavy, twilled fabric of linen or cotton. 

DRILLMASTER:  One who teaches drill, especially in the way of gymnastics. Macaulay.  DRILL PRESS Drill" press` .  A machine for drilling holes in metal, the drill being pressed to the metal by the action of a screw. 

DRILLSTOCK:  A contrivance for holding and turning a drill. Knight. 

DRILY:  See Dryly. Thackeray. 

DRIMYS:  A genus of magnoliaceous trees. Drimys aromatica furnishes Winter's bark. 

DRINKABLE:  Capable of being drunk; suitable for drink; potable. Macaulay. Also used substantively, esp. in the plural. Steele. 

DRINKABLENESS:  State of being drinkable. 

DRINKER:  One who drinks; as, the effects of tea on the drinker; also, one who drinks spirituous liquors to excess; a drunkard. Drinker moth (Zoöl.), a large British moth (Odonestis potatoria). 

DRINKLESS:  Destitute of drink. Chaucer. 

DRIP:  To let fall in drops. Which from the thatch drips fast a shower of rain. Swift. 

DRIP:  That part of a cornice, sill course, or other horizontal member, which projects beyond the rest, and is of such section as to throw off the rain water. Right of drip (Law), an easement or servitude by which a man has the right to have the water flowing from his house fall on the land of his neighbor. 

DRIPPLE:  Weak or rare. [Obs.] 

DRIPSTONE:  A drip, when made of stone. See Drip, 2. 

DRIVE:  To dig Horizontally; to cut a horizontal gallery or tunnel. Tomlinson.  7. To pass away; -- said of time. [Obs.] Chaucer.  Note: Drive, in all its senses, implies forcible or violent action. It is the reverse of to lead. To drive a body is to move it by applying a force behind; to lead is to cause to move by applying the force before, or in front. It takes a variety of meanings, according to the objects by which it is followed; as, to drive an engine, to direct and regulate its motions; to drive logs, to keep them in the current of a river and direct them in their course; to drive feathers or down, to place them in a machine, which, by a current of air, drives off the lightest to one end, and collects them by themselves. "My thrice-driven bed of down." Shak. 

DRIVE:  Driven. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DRIVEBOLT:  A drift; a tool for setting bolts home. 

DRIVEL:  To be weak or foolish; to dote; as, a driveling hero; driveling love. Shak. Dryden. 

DRIVELER:  A slaverer; a slabberer; an idiot; a fool. [Written also driveller.] 

DRIVEN:  of Drive. Also adj. Driven well, a well made by driving a tube into the earth to an aqueous stratum; -- called also drive well. 

DRIVEPIPE:  A pipe for forcing into the earth. 

DRIVER:  A part that transmits motion to another part by contact with it, or through an intermediate relatively movable part, as a gear which drives another, or a lever which moves another through a link, etc. Specifically: (a) The driving wheel of a locomotive. (b) An attachment to a lathe, spindle, or face plate to turn a carrier. (c) A crossbar on a grinding mill spindle to drive the upper stone.  5. (Naut.)  The after sail in a ship or bark, being a fore-and-aft sail attached to a gaff; a spanker. Totten. Driver ant (Zoöl.), a species of African stinging ant; one of the visiting ants (Anomma arcens); -- so called because they move about in vast armies, and drive away or devour all insects and other small animals. 

DRIVEWAY:  A passage or way along or through which a carriage may be driven. 

DRIZZLE:  To rain slightly in very small drops; to fall, as water from the clouds, slowly and in fine particles; as, it drizzles; drizzling drops or rain. "Drizzling tears." Spenser. 

DRIZZLE:  To shed slowly in minute drops or particles. "The air doth drizzle dew." Shak. 

DRIZZLE:  Fine rain or mist. Halliwell. 

DRIZZLY:  Characterized by small rain, or snow; moist and disagreeable. "Winter's drizzly reign." Dryden. 

DROCK:  A water course. [Prov. Eng.]  DROFLAND; DRYFLAND Drof"land, Dryf"land, n. Etym: [See Drove.] (Law)  An ancient yearly payment made by some tenants to the king, or to their landlords, for the privilege of driving their cattle through a manor to fairs or markets. Cowell. 

DROGHER:  A small craft used in the West India Islands to take off sugars, rum, etc., to the merchantmen; also, a vessel for transporting lumber, cotton, etc., coastwise; as, a lumber drogher. [Written also droger.] Ham. Nar. Encyc.  DROGMAN; DROGOMAN Drog"man, Drog"o*man, n.  See Dragoman. 

DROGUE:  See Drag, n.,  6, and Drag sail, under Drag, n. 

DROH:  of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DROIL:  To work sluggishly or slowly; to plod. [Obs.] 

DROIT:  A right; law in its aspect of the foundation of rights; also, in old law, the writ of right. Abbott. Droit d'aubaine. See under Aubaine.  -- Droits of the Admiralty (Eng. Law), rights or perquisites of the Admiralty, arising from seizure of an enemy's ships in port on the breaking out of war, or those coming into port in ignorance of hostilities existing, or from such ships as are taken by noncommissioned captors; also, the proceeds of wrecks, and derelict property at sea. The droits of admiralty are now paid into the Exchequer for the public benefit. 

DROITURAL:  relating to the mere right of property, as distinguished from the right of possession; as, droitural actions. [Obs.] Burrill. 

DROITZSCHKA:  See Drosky. 

DROLL:  Queer, and fitted to provoke laughter; ludicrous from oddity; amusing and strange.  Syn.  -- Comic; comical; farcical; diverting; humorous; ridiculous; queer; odd; waggish; facetious; merry; laughable; ludicrous.  -- Droll, Laughable, Comical. Laughable is the generic term, denoting anything exciting laughter or worthy of laughter; comical denotes something of the kind exhibited in comedies, something humorous of the kind exhibited in comedies, something, as it were, dramatically humorous; droll stands lower on the scale, having reference to persons or things which excite laughter by their buffoonery or oddity. A laughable incident; a comical adventure; a droll story. 

DROLL:  To jest; to play the buffoon. [R.] 

DROLLER:  A jester; a droll. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

DROLLINGLY:  In a jesting manner. 

DROLLISH:  Somewhat droll. Sterne. 

DROLLIST:  A droll. [R.] Glanvill. 

DROMAEOGNATHOUS:  Having the structure of the palate like that of the ostrich and emu. 

DROMATHERIUM:  A small extinct triassic mammal from North Carolina, the earliest yet found in America. 

DROME:  The crab plover (Dromas ardeola), a peculiar North African bird, allied to the oyster catcher. 

DROMEDARY:  The Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius), having one hump or protuberance on the back, in distinction from the Bactrian camel, which has two humps.  Note: In Arabia and Egypt the name is restricted to the better breeds of this species of camel. See Deloul.  DROMOND; DROMON Drom"ond, or Drom"on. Etym: [OF. dromont, L. dromo, fr. Gr.Dromedary.]  In the Middle Ages, a large, fast-sailing galley, or cutter; a large, swift war vessel. [Hist. or Archaic] Fuller. The great dromond swinging from the quay. W. Morris. 

DRONE:  The male of bees, esp. of the honeybee. It gathers no honey. See Honeybee. All with united force combine to drive The lazy drones from the laborious hive. Dryden.  2. One who lives on the labors of others; a lazy, idle fellow; a sluggard. By living as a drone,to be an unprofitable and unworthy member of so noble and learned a society. Burton.  3. That which gives out a grave or monotonous tone or dull sound; as: (a) A drum. [Obs.] Halliwell. (b) The part of the bagpipe containing the two lowest tubes, which always sound the key note and the fifth.  4. A humming or deep murmuring sound. The monotonous drone of the wheel. Longfellow.  5. (Mus.)  A monotonous bass, as in a pastoral composition. 

DRONE:  The male of the honeybee; a drone.  DRONE FLY Drone" fly`. (Zoöl.)  A dipterous insect (Eristalis tenax), resembling the drone bee. See Eristalis. 

DRONEPIPE:  One of the low-toned tubes of a bagpipe. 

DRONGO:  A passerine bird of the family Dicruridæ. They are usually black with a deeply forked tail. They are natives of Asia, Africa, and Australia; -- called also drongo shrikes. 

DRONISH:  Like a drone; indolent; slow. Burke.  -- Dron"ish*ly, adv.  -- Dron"ish*ness, n. 

DRONKELEWE:  Given to drink; drunken. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DRONTE:  The dodo. 

DRONY:  Like a drone; sluggish; lazy. 

DROOL:  To drivel, or drop saliva; as, the child drools. His mouth drooling with texts. T. Parker. 

DROOP:  To let droop or sink. [R.] M. Arnold. Like to a withered vine That droops his sapless branches to the ground. Shak. 

DROOP:  A drooping; as, a droop of the eye. 

DROOPER:  One who, or that which, droops. 

DROOPINGLY:  In a drooping manner. 

DROP:  Any medicine the dose of which is measured by drops; as, lavender drops.  6. (Naut.)  The depth of a square sail; -- generally applied to the courses only. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  7. Act of dropping; sudden fall or descent. Ague drop, Black drop. See under Ague, Black.  -- Drop by drop, in small successive quantities; in repeated portions. "Made to taste drop by drop more than the bitterness of death." Burke.  -- Drop curtain. See Drop, n.,  4. (d).  -- Drop forging. (Mech.) (a) A forging made in dies by a drop hammer. (b) The process of making drop forgings.  -- Drop hammer (Mech.), a hammer for forging, striking up metal, etc., the weight being raised by a strap or similar device, and then released to drop on the metal resting on an anvil or die.  -- Drop kick (Football), a kick given to the ball as it rebounds after having been dropped from the hands.  -- Drop lake, a pigment obtained from Brazil wood. Mollett.  -- Drop letter, a letter to be delivered from the same office where posted.  -- Drop press (Mech.), a drop hammer; sometimes, a dead-stroke hammer; -- also called drop.  -- Drop scene, a drop curtain on which a scene is painted. See Drop, n., 4. (d).  -- Drop seed. (Bot.) See the List under Glass.  -- Drop serene. (Med.) See Amaurosis. 

DROPLET:  A little drop; a tear. Shak. 

DROPLIGHT:  An apparatus for bringing artificial light down from a chandelier nearer to a table or desk; a pendant.  DROPMEAL; DROPMELE Drop"meal`, Drop"mele`, adv. Etym: [AS. drop-m; dropa drop + m portion. Cf. Piecemeal.]  By drops or small portions. [Obs.] Distilling dropmeal, a little at once. Holland. 

DROPPER:  A branch vein which drops off from, or leaves, the main lode.  4. (Zoöl.)  A dog which suddenly drops upon the ground when it sights game, -- formerly a common, and still an occasional, habit of the setter. 

DROPPING:  That which falls in drops; the excrement or dung of animals. Dropping bottle, an instrument used to supply small quantities of a fluid to a test tube or other vessel.  -- Dropping fire, a continued irregular discharge of firearms.  -- Dropping tube, a tube for ejecting any liquid in drops. 

DROPPINGLY:  In drops. 

DROPSICALNESS:  State of being dropsical. 

DROPSIED:  Diseased with drops. Shak. 

DROPSY:  An unnatural collection of serous fluid in any serous cavity of the body, or in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Dunglison. 

DROPT:  imp. & p. p. of Drop, v. G. Eliot. 

DROPWISE:  After the manner of a drop; in the form of drops. Trickling dropwise from the cleft. Tennyson. 

DROPWORM:  The larva of any geometrid moth, which drops from trees by means of a thread of silk, as the cankerworm. 

DROPWORT:  An Old World species of Spiræa (S. filipendula), with finely cut leaves. 

DROSERA:  A genus of low perennial or biennial plants, the leaves of which are beset with gland-tipped bristles. See Sundew. Gray. 

DROSKY:  A low, four-wheeled, open carriage, used in Russia, consisting of a kind of long, narrow bench, on which the passengers ride as on a saddle, with their feet reaching nearly to the ground. Other kinds of vehicles are now so called, esp. a kind of victoria drawn by one or two horses, and used as a public carriage in German cities. [Written also droitzschka, and droschke.] 

DROSOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the quantity of dew on the surface of a body in the open air. It consists of a balance, having a plate at one end to receive the dew, and at the other a weight protected from the deposit of dew. 

DROSSEL:  A slut; a hussy; a drazel. [Obs.] Warner. 

DROSSLESS:  Free from dross. Stevens. 

DROSSY:  Of, pertaining to, resembling, dross; full of dross; impure; worthless. " Drossy gold." Dryden. "Drossy rhymes." Donne.  -- Dross"i*ness, n. 

DROTCHEL:  See Drossel. [Obs.] 

DROUGH:  of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DROUGHTINESS:  A state of dryness of the weather; want of rain. 

DROUMY:  Troubled; muddy. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DROUTH:  Same as Drought. Sandys. Another ill accident is drouth at the spindling of corn. Bacon. One whose drouth [thirst], Yet scarce allayed, still eyes the current stream. Milton. In the dust and drouth of London life. Tennyson. 

DROUTHY:  Droughty. 

DROVE:  of Drive. 

DROVE:  A narrow drain or channel used in the irrigation of land. Simmonds.  6. (Masonry) (a) A broad chisel used to bring stone to a nearly smooth surface; -- called also drove chisel. (b) The grooved surface of stone finished by the drove chisel; -- called also drove work. 

DROVEN:  of Drive. [Obs.] 

DROVY:  Turbid; muddy; filthy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DROW:  of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DROWN:  To be suffocated in water or other fluid; to perish in water. Methought, what pain it was to drown. Shak. 

DROWNAGE:  The act of drowning. [R.] 

DROWNER:  One who, or that which, drowns. 

DROWSE:  To sleep imperfectly or unsoundly; to slumber; to be heavy with sleepiness; to doze. "He drowsed upon his couch." South. In the pool drowsed the cattle up to their knees. Lowell. 

DROWSE:  To make heavy with sleepiness or imperfect sleep; to make dull or stupid. Milton. 

DROWSE:  A slight or imperfect sleep; a doze. But smiled on in a drowse of ecstasy. Mrs. Browning. 

DROWSIHEAD:  Drowsiness. Thomson. 

DROWSIHED:  Drowsihead. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DROWSILY:  In a drowsy manner. 

DROWSINESS:  State of being drowsy. Milton. 

DROWTH:  See Drought. Bacon. 

DROYLE:  See Droil. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DRUB:  To beat with a stick; to thrash; to cudgel. Soundly Drubbed with a good honest cudgel. L'Estrange. 

DRUB:  A blow with a cudgel; a thump. Addison. 

DRUBBER:  One who drubs. Sir W. Scott. 

DRUDGE:  To perform menial work; to labor in mean or unpleasant offices with toil and fatigue. He gradually rose in the estimation of the booksellers for whom he drudged. Macaulay. 

DRUDGE:  To consume laboriously; -- with away. Rise to our toils and drudge away the day. Otway. 

DRUDGE:  One who drudges; one who works hard in servile employment; a mental servant. Milton. 

DRUDGERY:  The act of drudging; disagreeable and wearisome labor; ignoble or slavish toil. The drudgery of penning definitions. Macaulay. Paradise was a place of bliss . . . without drudgery and with out sorrow. Locke.  Syn.  -- See Toll.  DRUDGING BOX Drudg"ing box`.  See Dredging box. 

DRUDGINGLY:  In a drudging manner; laboriously. 

DRUERY:  Courtship; gallantry; love; an object of love. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

DRUG:  To drudge; to toil laboriously. [Obs.] "To drugge and draw." Chaucer. 

DRUG:  A drudge. Shak. (Timon iv. 3, 253). 

DRUG:  To prescribe or administer drugs or medicines. B. Jonson. 

DRUGGER:  A druggist. [Obs.] Burton. 

DRUGGIST:  One who deals in drugs; especially, one who buys and sells drugs without compounding them; also, a pharmaceutist or apothecary.  Note: The same person often carries on the business of the druggist and the apothecary. See the Note under Apothecary. 

DRUGSTER:  A druggist. [Obs.] Boule. 

DRUIDESS:  A female Druid; a prophetess.  DRUIDIC; DRUIDICAL Dru*id"ic, Dru*id"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to, or resembling, the Druids. Druidical circles. See under Circle. 

DRUIDISH:  Druidic. 

DRUIDISM:  The system of religion, philosophy, and instruction, received and taught by the Druids; the rites and ceremonies of the Druids. 

DRUM:  An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollow cylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin or vellum, to be beaten with a stick; or of a metallic hemisphere (kettledrum) with a single piece of skin to be so beaten; the common instrument for marking time in martial music; one of the pair of tympani in an orchestra, or cavalry band. The drums cry bud-a-dub. Gascoigne.  2. Anything resembling a drum in form; as: (a) A sheet iron radiator, often in the shape of a drum, for warming an apartment by means of heat received from a stovepipe, or a cylindrical receiver for steam, etc. (b) A small cylindrical box in which figs, etc., are packed. (c) (Anat.) The tympanum of the ear; -- often, but incorrectly, applied to the tympanic membrane. (d) (Arch.)  One of the cylindrical, or nearly cylindrical, blocks, of which the shaft of a column is composed; also, a vertical wall, whether circular or polygonal in plan, carrying a cupola or dome. (e) (Mach.)  A cylinder on a revolving shaft, generally for the purpose of driving several pulleys, by means of belts or straps passing around its periphery; also, the barrel of a hoisting machine, on which the rope or chain is wound.  3. (Zoöl.)  See Drumfish.  4. A noisy, tumultuous assembly of fashionable people at a private house; a rout. [Archaic] Not unaptly styled a drum, from the noise and emptiness of the entertainment. Smollett.  Note: There were also drum major, rout, tempest, and hurricane, differing only in degrees of multitude and uproar, as the significant name of each declares.  5. A tea party; a kettledrum. G. Eliot. Bass drum. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Double drum. See under Double. 

DRUMBEAT:  The sound of a beaten drum; drum music. Whose morning drumbeat, following the sun, and keeping company with the hours, circles the earth with one continuous and unbroken strain of the martial airs of England. D. Webster. 

DRUMFISH:  any fish of the family Sciænidæ, which makes a loud noise by means of its air bladder; -- called also drum.  Note: The common drumfish (Pogonias chromis) is a large species, common south of New Jersey. The southern red drum or red horse (Sciæna ocellata), and the fresh-water drum or croaker (Aplodionotus grunniens), are related species. 

DRUMLIN:  A hill of compact, unstratified, glacial drift or till, usually elongate or oval, with the larger axis parallel to the former local glacial motion. 

DRUMLY:  Turbid; muddy. [Scot. & Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Wodroephe (1623). Burns.  DRUM MAJOR Drum" ma"jor  .  1. The chief or first drummer of a regiment; an instructor of drummers.  2. The marching leader of a military band. [U.S.]  3. A noisy gathering. [R.] See under Drum, n.,  4. 

DRUMMER:  A fish that makes a sound when caught; as: (a) The squeteague. (b) A California sculpin.  4. (Zoöl.)  A large West Indian cockroach (Blatta gigantea) which drums on woodwork, as a sexual call. 

DRUMMING:  The act of beating upon, or as if upon, a drum; also, the noise which the male of the ruffed grouse makes in spring, by beating his wings upon his sides.  DRUMMOND LIGHT Drum"mond light`. Etym: [From Thomas Drummond, a British naval officer.]  A very intense light, produced by turning two streams of gas, one oxygen and the other hydrogen, or coal gas, in a state of ignition, upon a ball of lime; or a stream of oxygen gas through a flame of alcohol upon a ball or disk of lime; -- called also oxycalcium light, or lime light.  Note: The name is also applied sometimes to a heliostat, invented by Drummond, for rendering visible a distant point, as in geodetic surveying, by reflecting upon it a beam of light from the sun. 

DRUMSTICK:  A method of armature winding in which the wire is wound upon the outer surface of a cylinder or drum from end to end of the cylinder; -- distinguished from ring winding, etc. 

DRUNK:  A drunken condition; a spree. [Slang] 

DRUNKARD:  One who habitually drinks strong liquors immoderately; one whose habit it is to get drunk; a toper; a sot. The drunkard and glutton shall come to poverty. Prov. xxiii. 21. 

DRUNKENHEAD:  Drunkenness. [Obs.] 

DRUNKENLY:  In a drunken manner. [R.] Shak. 

DRUNKENNESS:  The state of being drunk; drunkenness. [Obs.] Gower. 

DRUPACEOUS:  Producing, or pertaining to, drupes; having the form of drupes; as, drupaceous trees or fruits. 

DRUPAL:  Drupaceous. 

DRUPE:  A fruit consisting of pulpy, coriaceous, or fibrous exocarp, without valves, containing a nut or stone with a kernel. The exocarp is succulent in the plum, cherry, apricot, peach, etc.; dry and subcoriaceous in the almond; and fibrous in the cocoanut.  DRUPEL; DRUPELET Drup"el, Drupe"let, n. Etym: [Dim. of Drupe.] (Bot.)  A small drupe, as one of the pulpy grains of the blackberry. 

DRUSE:  A cavity in a rock, having its interior surface studded with crystals and sometimes filled with water; a geode. 

DRUSE:  One of a people and religious sect dwelling chiefly in the Lebanon mountains of Syria. The Druses separated from the Mohammedan Arabs in the 9th century. Their characteristic dogma is the unity of God. Am. Cyc.  DRUSY; DRUSED Dru"sy, Drused, a. (Min.)  Covered with a large number of minute crystals.  DRUXEY; DRUXY Drux"ey, Drux"y, a. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]  Having decayed spots or streaks of a whitish color; -- said of timber. Weale. 

DRY:  Of certain morbid conditions, in which there is entire or comparative absence of moisture; as, dry gangrene; dry catarrh.  2. Destitute of that which interests or amuses; barren; unembellished; jejune; plain. These epistles will become less dry, more susceptible of ornament. Pope.  3. Characterized by a quality somewhat severe, grave, or hard; hence, sharp; keen; shrewd; quaint; as, a dry tone or manner; dry wit. He was rather a dry, shrewd kind of body. W. Irving.  4. (Fine Arts)  Exhibiting a sharp, frigid preciseness of execution, or the want of a delicate contour in form, and of easy transition in coloring. Dry area (Arch.), a small open space reserved outside the foundation of a building to guard it from damp.  -- Dry blow. (a) (Med.) A blow which inflicts no wound, and causes no effusion of blood. (b) A quick, sharp blow.  -- Dry bone (Min.), Smithsonite, or carbonate of zinc; -- a miner's term.  -- Dry castor (Zoöl.) a kind of beaver; -- called also parchment beaver.  -- Dry cupping. (Med.) See under Cupping.  -- Dry dock. See under Dock.  -- Dry fat. See Dry vat (below).  -- Dry light, pure unobstructed light; hence, a clear, impartial view. Bacon. The scientific man must keep his feelings under stern control, lest they obtrude into his researches, and color the dry light in which alone science desires to see its objects. J. C. Shairp. -- Dry masonry. See Masonry.  -- Dry measure, a system of measures of volume for dry or coarse articles, by the bushel, peck, etc.  -- Dry pile (Physics), a form of the Voltaic pile, constructed without the use of a liquid, affording a feeble current, and chiefly useful in the construction of electroscopes of great delicacy; -- called also Zamboni's , from the names of the two earliest constructors of it.  -- Dry pipe (Steam Engine), a pipe which conducts dry steam from a boiler.  -- Dry plate (Photog.), a glass plate having a dry coating sensitive to light, upon which photographic negatives or pictures can be made, without moistening.  -- Dry-plate process, the process of photographing with dry plates.  -- Dry point. (Fine Arts) (a) An engraving made with the needle instead of the burin, in which the work is done nearly as in etching, but is finished without the use acid. (b) A print from such an engraving, usually upon paper. (c) Hence: The needle with which such an engraving is made.  -- Dry rent (Eng. Law), a rent reserved by deed, without a clause of distress. Bouvier.  -- Dry rot, a decay of timber, reducing its fibers to the condition of a dry powdery dust, often accompanied by the presence of a peculiar fungus (Merulius lacrymans), which is sometimes considered the cause of the decay; but it is more probable that the real cause is the decomposition of the wood itself. D. C. Eaton. Called also sap rot, and, in the United States, powder post. Hebert.  -- Dry stove, a hothouse adapted to preserving the plants of arid climates. Brande & C.  -- Dry vat, a vat, basket, or other receptacle for dry articles.  -- Dry wine, that in which the saccharine matter and fermentation were so exactly balanced, that they have wholly neutralized each other, and no sweetness is perceptible; -- opposed to sweet wine, in which the saccharine matter is in excess. 

DRY:  To make dry; to free from water, or from moisture of any kind, and by any means; to exsiccate; as, to dry the eyes; to dry one's tears; the wind dries the earth; to dry a wet cloth; to dry hay. To dry up. (a) To scorch or parch with thirst; to deprive utterly of water; to consume. Their honorable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst. Is. v. 13. The water of the sea, which formerly covered it, was in time exhaled and dried up by the sun. Woodward. (b) To make to cease, as a stream of talk. Their sources of revenue were dried up. Jowett (Thucyd. ) -- To dry, or dry up, a cow, to cause a cow to cease secreting milk. Tylor. 

DRYAD:  A wood nymph; a nymph whose life was bound up with that of her tree. 

DRYANDRA:  A genus of shrubs growing in Australia, having beautiful, hard, dry, evergreen leaves. 

DRYAS:  A dryad.  DRY-BEAT Dry"-beat`, v. t.  To beat severely. Shak.  DRY-BONED Dry"-boned`, a.  Having dry bones, or bones without flesh.  DRY DOCK Dry" dock`. (Naut.)  See under Dock. 

DRYER:  See Drier. Sir W. Temple.  DRY-EYED Dry"-eyed`, a.  Not having tears in the eyes.  DRY-FISTED Dry"-fist`ed, a.  Niggardly. 

DRYFOOT:  The scent of the game, as far as it can be traced. [Obs.] Shak.  DRY GOODS Dry" goods`.  A commercial name for textile fabrics, cottons, woolens, linen, silks, laces, etc., -- in distinction from groceries. [U.S.] 

DRYLY:  In a dry manner; not succulently; without interest; without sympathy; coldly. 

DRYNESS:  The state of being dry. See Dry.  DRY NURSE Dry" nurse`.  A nurse who attends and feeds a child by hand; -- in distinction from a wet nurse, who suckles it. 

DRYNURSE:  To feed, attend, and bring up without the breast. Hudibras. 

DRYOBALANOPS:  The genus to which belongs the single species D. Camphora, a lofty resinous tree of Borneo and Sumatra, yielding Borneo camphor and camphor oil.  DRY-RUB Dry"-rub`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dry-rubbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Dry- rubbing.]  To rub and cleanse without wetting. Dodsley. 

DRYSALTER:  A dealer in salted or dried meats, pickles, sauces, etc., and in the materials used in pickling, salting, and preserving various kinds of food Hence drysalters usually sell a number of saline substances and miscellaneous drugs. Brande & C. 

DRYSALTERY:  The articles kept by a drysalter; also, the business of a drysalter.  DRY-SHOD Dry"-shod`, a.  Without wetting the feet.  DRY-STONE Dry"-stone`, a.  Constructed of uncemented stone. "Dry-stone walls." Sir W. Scott.  DRYTH; DRITH Dryth, or Drith, n.  Drought. [Obs.] Tyndale. 

DUAD:  A union of two; duality. [R.] Harris. 

DUAL:  Expressing, or consisting of, the number two; belonging to two; as, the dual number of nouns, etc. , in Greek. Here you have one half of our dual truth. Tyndall. 

DUALIN:  An explosive substance consisting essentially of sawdust or wood pulp, saturated with nitroglycerin and other similar nitro compounds. It is inferior to dynamite, and is more liable to explosion. 

DUALISM:  State of being dual or twofold; a twofold division; any system which is founded on a double principle, or a twofold distinction; as: (a) (Philos.) A view of man as constituted of two original and independent elements, as matter and spirit. (Theol.) (b) A system which accepts two gods, or two original principles, one good and the other evil. (c) The doctrine that all mankind are divided by the arbitrary decree of God, and in his eternal foreknowledge, into two classes, the elect and the reprobate. (d) (Physiol.) The theory that each cerebral hemisphere acts independently of the other. An inevitable dualism bisects nature, so that each thing is a half, and suggests another thing to make it whole. Emerson. 

DUALISTIC:  Consisting of two; pertaining to dualism or duality. Dualistic system or theory (Chem.), the theory, originated by Lavoisier and developed by Berzelius, that all definite compounds are binary in their nature, and consist of two distinct constituents, themselves simple or complex, and possessed of opposite chemical or electrical affinities. 

DUALITY:  The quality or condition of being two or twofold; dual character or usage. 

DUAN:  A division of a poem corresponding to a canto; a poem or song. [R.] 

DUARCHY:  Government by two persons. 

DUB:  To make a noise by brisk drumbeats. "Now the drum dubs." Beau. & Fl. 

DUB:  A blow. [R.] Hudibras. 

DUB:  A pool or puddle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

DUBB:  The Syrian bear. See under Bear. [Written also dhubb, and dub.] 

DUBBER:  One who, or that which, dubs. 

DUBBER:  A globular vessel or bottle of leather, used in India to hold ghee, oil, etc. [Also written dupper.] M'Culloch. 

DUBIETY:  Doubtfulness; uncertainty; doubt. [R.] Lamb. "The dubiety of his fate." Sir W. Scott. 

DUBIOSITY:  The state of being doubtful; a doubtful statement or thing. [R.] Men often swallow falsities for truths, dubiosities for certainties, possibilities for feasibilities. Sir T. Browne. 

DUBIOUSLY:  In a dubious manner. 

DUBIOUSNESS:  State of being dubious. 

DUBITABLE:  Liable to be doubted; uncertain. [R.] Dr. H. More.  -- Du"bi*ta*bly, adv. [R.] 

DUBITANCY:  Doubt; uncertainty. [R.] Hammond. 

DUBITATE:  To doubt. [R.] If he . . . were to loiter dubitating, and not come. Carlyle. 

DUBITATION:  Act of doubting; doubt. [R.] Sir T. Scott. 

DUBITATIVE:  Tending to doubt; doubtful. [R.] -- Du"bi*ta*tive*ly, adv. [R.] . Eliot. 

DUBOISIA:  Same as Duboisine. 

DUBOISINE:  An alkaloid obtained from the leaves of an Australian tree (Duboisia myoporoides), and regarded as identical with hyoscyamine. It produces dilation of the pupil of the eye. 

DUCAL:  Of or pertaining to a duke. His ducal cap was to be exchanged for a kingly crown. Motley. 

DUCALLY:  In the manner of a duke, or in a manner becoming the rank of a duke. 

DUCAT:  A coin, either of gold or silver, of several countries in Europe; originally, one struck in the dominions of a duke.  Note: The gold ducat is generally of the value of nine shillings and four pence sterling, or somewhat more that two dollars. The silver ducat is of about half this value. 

DUCATOON:  A silver coin of several countries of Europe, and of different values.  DUCES TECUM Du"ces te"cum. Etym: [L., bring with thee.]  A judicial process commanding a person to appear in court and bring with him some piece of evidence or other thing to be produced to the court. 

DUCHESS:  The wife or widow of a duke; also, a lady who has the sovereignty of a duchy in her own right.  DUCHESSE D'ANGOULEME Du`chesse" d'An`gou`lême". Etym: [F.] (Bot.)  A variety of pear of large size and excellent flavor.  DUCHESSE LACE Du`chesse" lace.  A beautiful variety of Brussels pillow lace made originally in Belgium and resembling Honiton guipure. It is worked with fine thread in large sprays, usually of the primrose pattern, with much raised work. 

DUCHY:  The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom. 

DUCK:  A pet; a darling. Shak. 

DUCK:  The light clothes worn by sailors in hot climates. [Colloq.] 

DUCK:  Any bird of the subfamily Anatinæ, family Anatidæ.  Note: The genera and species are numerous. They are divided into river ducks and sea ducks. Among the former are the common domestic duck (Anas boschas); the wood duck (Aix sponsa); the beautiful mandarin duck of China (Dendronessa galeriliculata); the Muscovy duck, originally of South America (Cairina moschata). Among the sea ducks are the eider, canvasback, scoter, etc.  2. A sudden inclination of the bead or dropping of the person, resembling the motion of a duck in water. Here be, without duck or nod, Other trippings to be trod. Milton. Bombay duck (Zoöl.), a fish. See Bummalo.  -- Buffel duck, or Spirit duck. See Buffel duck.  -- Duck ant (Zoöl.), a species of white ant in Jamaica which builds large nests in trees.  -- Duck barnacle. (Zoöl.) See Goose barnacle.  -- Duck hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) In the United States: The peregrine falcon. (b) In England: The marsh harrier or moor buzzard.  -- Duck mole (Zoöl.), a small aquatic mammal of Australia, having webbed feet and a bill resembling that of a duck (Ornithorhynchus anatinus). It belongs the subclass Monotremata and is remarkable for laying eggs like a bird or reptile; -- called also duckbill, platypus, mallangong, mullingong, tambreet, and water mole.  -- To make ducks and drakes, to throw a flat stone obliquely, so as to make it rebound repeatedly from the surface of the water, raising a succession of jets; hence: To play at ducks and drakes, with property, to throw it away heedlessly or squander it foolishly and unprofitably.  -- Lame duck. See under Lame. 

DUCKBILL:  See Duck mole, under Duck, n.  DUCK-BILLED Duck"-billed`, a.  Having a bill like that of a duck.. 

DUCKING:  , from Duck, v. t. & i. Ducking stool, a stool or chair in which common scolds were formerly tied, and plunged into water, as a punishment. See Cucking stool. The practice of ducking began in the latter part of the 15th century, and prevailed until the early part of the 18th, and occasionally as late as the 19th century. Blackstone. Chambers.  DUCK-LEGGED Duck"-legged`, a.  Having short legs, like a waddling duck; short-legged. Dryden. 

DUCKLING:  A young or little duck. Gay.  DUCKMEAT; DUCK'S-MEAT Duck"meat`, or Duck's"-meat`, n. (Bot.)  Duckweed.  DUCK'S-BILL Duck's"-bill`, a.  Having the form of a duck's bill. Duck's-bill limpet (Zoöl.), a limpet of the genus Parmaphorus; -- so named from its shape.  DUCK'S-FOOT Duck's"-foot`, n. (Bot.)  The May apple (Podophyllum peltatum). 

DUCKWEED:  A genus (Lemna) of small plants, seen floating in great quantity on the surface of stagnant pools fresh water, and supposed to furnish food for ducks; -- called also duckmeat. 

DUCT:  One of the vessels of an animal body by which the products of glandular secretion are conveyed to their destination.  3. (Bot.)  A large, elongated cell, either round or prismatic, usually found associated with woody fiber.  Note: Ducts are classified, according to the character of the surface of their walls, or their structure, as annular, spiral, scalariform, etc.  4. Guidance; direction. [Obs.] Hammond. 

DUCTIBLE:  Capable of being drawn out [R.] Feltham. 

DUCTILIMETER:  An instrument for accurately determining the ductility of metals. 

DUCTION:  Guidance. [Obs.] Feltham. 

DUCTLESS:  Having to duct or outlet; as, a ductless gland. 

DUCTOR:  A contrivance for removing superfluous ink or coloring matter from a roller. See Doctor, 4. Knight. Ductor roller (Printing), the roller which conveys or supplies ink to another roller. Knight. 

DUCTURE:  Guidance. [Obs.] South. 

DUDDER:  To confuse or confound with noise. Jennings. 

DUDDER:  To shiver or tremble; to dodder. I dudder and shake like an aspen leaf. Ford. 

DUDDER:  A peddler or hawker, especially of cheap and flashy goods pretended to be smuggled; a duffer. [Eng.] 

DUDDERY:  A place where rags are bought and kept for sale. [Eng.] 

DUDE:  A kind of dandy; especially, one characterized by an ultrafashionable style of dress and other affectations. [Recent] The social dude who affects English dress and English drawl. The American. 

DUDEEN:  A short tobacco pipe. [Written also dudheen.] [Irish] 

DUDGEON:  Resentment; ill will; anger; displeasure. I drink it to thee in dudgeon and hostility. Sir T. Scott. 

DUDGEON:  Homely; rude; coarse. [Obs.] By my troth, though I am plain and dudgeon, I would not be an ass. Beau. & Fl. 

DUDISH:  Like, or characterized of, a dude. 

DUE:  Directly; exactly; as, a due east course. 

DUE:  To endue. [Obs.] Shak. 

DUEBILL:  A brief written acknowledgment of a debt, not made payable to order, like a promissory note. Burrill. 

DUEFUL:  Fit; becoming. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DUEL:  A combat between two persons, fought with deadly weapons, by agreement. It usually arises from an injury done or an affront given by one to the other. Trial by duel (Old Law), a combat between two persons for proving a cause; trial by battel. 

DUEL:  To fight in single combat. [Obs.] 

DUELER:  One who engages in a duel. [R.] [Written also dueller.] South. 

DUELING:  e act or practice of fighting in single combat. Also adj. [Written also duelling.] 

DUELIST:  One who fights in single combat. [Written also duellist.] A duelist . . . always values himself upon his courage, his sense of honor, his fidelity and friendship. Hume. 

DUELO:  A duel; also, the rules of dueling. [Obs.] Shak.  DUENA; DUENYA Du*e"ña, n. Etym: [Sp.]  See Doña. 

DUENESS:  Quality of being due; debt; what is due or becoming. T. Goodwin. 

DUET:  A composition for two performers, whether vocal or instrumental. 

DUETTINO:  A duet of short extent and concise form. 

DUETTO:  See Duet. 

DUFFEL:  A kind of coarse woolen cloth, having a thick nap or frieze. [Written also duffle.] Good duffel gray and flannel fine. Wordsworth.  DUFFEL BAG Duffel bag.  A sack to hold miscellaneous articles, as tools, supplies, or the like. 

DUFFLE:  See Duffel. 

DUFRENITE:  A mineral of a blackish green color, commonly massive or in nodules. It is a hydrous phosphate of iron. 

DUG:  A teat, pap, or nipple; -- formerly that of a human mother, now that of a cow or other beast. With mother's dug between its lips. Shak. 

DUG:  of Dig. 

DUGONG:  An aquatic herbivorous mammal (Halicore dugong), of the order Sirenia, allied to the manatee, but with a bilobed tail. It inhabits the Red Sea, Indian Ocean, East Indies, and Australia. [Written also duyong.] 

DUGWAY:  A way or road dug through a hill, or sunk below the surface of the land. [U.S.] 

DUKE:  To play the duke. [Poetic] Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence. Shak. 

DUKELING:  A little or insignificant duke. Ford. 

DUKESHIP:  The quality or condition of being a duke; also, the personality of a duke. Massinger.  DUKHOBORS; DUKHOBORTSY Du*kho*bors", Du*kho*bor"tsy, n. pl. [Russ. dukhobortsy spirit wrestlers; dukh spirit + bortsy wrestlers.]  A Russian religious sect founded about the middle of the 18th century at Kharkov. They believe that Christ was wholly human, but that his soul reappears from time to time in mortals. They accept the Ten Commandments and the "useful" portions of the Bible, but deny the need of rulers, priests, or churches, and have no confessions, icons, or marriage ceremonies. They are communistic, opposed to any violence, and unwilling to use the labor of animals. Driven out of Russia proper, many have emigrated to Cyprus and Canada. See Raskolnik, below. 

DULCAMARA:  A plant (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet, n.,  3 (a). 

DULCAMARIN:  A glucoside extracted from the bittersweet (Solanum Dulcamara), as a yellow amorphous substance. It probably occasions the compound taste. See Bittersweet, 3(a). 

DULCE:  To make sweet; to soothe. [Obs.] 

DULCENESS:  Sweetness. [Obs.] Bacon. 

DULCIANA:  A sweet-toned stop of an organ. 

DULCIFICATION:  The act of dulcifying or sweetening. Boyle. 

DULCIFIED:  Sweetened; mollified. Dulcified spirit or spirits, a compound of alcohol with mineral acids; as, dulcified spirits of niter. 

DULCIFLUOUS:  Flowing sweetly. [R.] 

DULCIFY:  To sweeten; to free from acidity, saltness, or acrimony. Wiseman.  2. Fig. : To mollify; to sweeten; to please. As she . . . was further dulcified by her pipe of tobacco. Hawthorne. 

DULCILOQUY:  A soft manner of speaking. 

DULCINEA:  A mistress; a sweetheart. I must ever have some Dulcinea in my head. Sterne. 

DULCINESS:  See Dulceness. [Obs.] 

DULCINO:  See Dolcino. 

DULCITE:  A white, sugarlike substance, C6H8.(OH)2, occurring naturally in a manna from Madagascar, and in certain plants, and produced artificially by the reduction of galactose and lactose or milk sugar. 

DULCITUDE:  Sweetness. [R.] Cockeram. 

DULCORATE:  To sweeten; to make less acrimonious. [R.] Bacon. 

DULCORATION:  The act of sweetening. [R.] Bacon. 

DULEDGE:  One of the dowels joining the ends of the fellies which form the circle of the wheel of a gun carriage. Wilhelm. 

DULIA:  An inferior kind of veneration or worship, given to the angels and saints as the servants of God. 

DULL:  To become dull or stupid. Rom. of R. 

DULLARD:  A stupid person; a dunce. Shak.  -- a.  Stupid. Bp. Hall.  DULL-BRAINED Dull"-brained`, a.  Stupid; doltish. Shak.  DULL-BROWED Dull"-browed`, a.  Having a gloomy look. 

DULLER:  One who, or that which, dulls.  DULL-EYED Dull"-eyed`, a.  Having eyes wanting brightness, liveliness, or vivacity. Shak. 

DULLHEAD:  A blockhead; a dolt. Ascham. 

DULLISH:  Somewhat dull; uninteresting; tiresome. "A series of dullish verses." Prof. Wilson. 

DULLNESS:  The state of being dull; slowness; stupidity; heaviness; drowsiness; bluntness; obtuseness; dimness; want of luster; want of vividness, or of brightness. [Written also dulness.] And gentle dullness ever loves a joke. Pope.  DULL-SIGHTED Dull"-sight`ed, a.  Having poor eyesight. 

DULLSOME:  Dull. [R.] Gataker.  DULL-WITTED Dull"-wit`ted, a.  Stupid. 

DULLY:  In a dull manner; stupidly; slowly; sluggishly; without life or spirit. Supinely calm and dully innocent. G. Lyttelton. 

DULOCRACY:  See Doulocracy. 

DULSE:  A seaweed of a reddish brown color, which is sometimes eaten, as in Scotland. The true dulse is Sarcophyllis edulis; the common is Rhodymenia. [Written also dillisk.] The crimson leaf of the dulse is seen To blush like a banner bathed in slaughter. Percival. 

DULWILLY:  The ring plover. [Prov. Eng.] 

DULY:  In a due, fit, or becoming manner; as it (anything) ought to be; properly; regularly. 

DUMAL:  Pertaining to, or set with, briers or bushes; brambly. [R.] 

DUMB:  To put to silence. [Obs.] Shak.  DUMB-BELL Dumb"-bell`, n.  A weight, consisting of two spheres or spheroids, connected by a short bar for a handle; used (often in pairs) for gymnastic exercise. 

DUMBLEDOR:  A bumblebee; also, a cockchafer. [Prov. Eng.] 

DUMBLY:  In silence; mutely. 

DUMBNESS:  The quality or state of being dumb; muteness; silence; inability to speak.  DUMB-WAITER Dumb"-wait`er, n.  A framework on which dishes, food, etc., are passed from one room or story of a house to another; a lift for dishes, etc.; also, a piece of furniture with movable or revolving shelves.  DUMDUM BULLET Dum"dum bul"let. (Mil.)  A kind of manstopping bullet; -- so named from Dumdum, in India, where bullets are manufactured for the Indian army. 

DUMETOSE:  Dumose. 

DUMFOUND:  To strike dumb; to confuse with astonishment. [Written also dumbfound.] Spectator. 

DUMFOUNDER:  To dumfound; to confound. [Written also dumbfounder.] 

DUMMADOR:  A dumbledor. 

DUMMERER:  One who feigns dumbness. [Obs.] Burton. 

DUMMY:  One who plays a merely nominal part in any action; a sham character.  5. A thick-witted person; a dolt. [Colloq.]  6. (Railroad)  A locomotive with condensing engines, and, hence, without the noise of escaping steam; also, a dummy car.  7. (Card Playing)  The fourth or exposed hand when three persons play at a four- handed game of cards.  8. A floating barge connected with a pier. Knight. To play dummy, to play the exposed or dummy hand in cards. The partner of the dummy plays it.  DUMOSE; DUMOUS Du`mose", Du"mous, a. Etym: [L. dumosus, fr. dumus a thornbush, a bramble.]  1. Abounding with bushes and briers.  2. (Bot.)  Having a compact, bushy form. 

DUMP:  A thick, ill-shapen piece; a clumsy leaden counter used by boys in playing chuck farthing. [Eng.] Smart. 

DUMP:  A pile of ore or rock. 

DUMPINESS:  The state of being dumpy. 

DUMPISH:  Dull; stupid; sad; moping; melancholy. " A . . . dumpish and sour life." Lord Herbert.  -- Dump"ish*ly, adv.  -- Dump"ish*ness, n. 

DUMPLE:  To make dumpy; to fold, or bend, as one part over another. [R.] He was a little man, dumpled up together. Sir W. Scott. 

DUMPLING:  A roundish mass of dough boiled in soup, or as a sort of pudding; often, a cover of paste inclosing an apple or other fruit, and boiled or baked; as, an apple dumpling. 

DUMPY:  A level having a short telescope (hence its name) rigidly fixed to a table capable only of rotatory movement in a horizontal plane. The telescope is usually an inverting one. It is sometimes called the Troughton level, from the name of the inventor, and a variety improved by one Gavatt is known as the Gavatt level. 

DUN:  A mound or small hill. 

DUN:  To cure, as codfish, in a particular manner, by laying them, after salting, in a pile in a dark place, covered with salt grass or some like substance. 

DUN:  To ask or beset, as a debtor, for payment; to urge importunately. Hath she sent so soon to dun Swift. 

DUN:  Of a dark color; of a color partaking of a brown and black; of a dull brown color; swarthy. Summer's dun cloud comes thundering up. Pierpont. Chill and dun Falls on the moor the brief November day. Keble. Dun crow (Zoöl.), the hooded crow; -- so called from its color; -- also called hoody, and hoddy.  -- Dun diver (Zoöl.), the goosander or merganser. 

DUNCE:  One backward in book learning; a child or other person dull or weak in intellect; a dullard; a dolt. I never knew this town without dunces of figure. Swift.  Note: The schoolmen were often called, after their great leader Duns Scotus, Dunsmen or Duncemen. In the revival of learning they were violently opposed to classical studies; hence, the name of Dunce was applied with scorn and contempt to an opposer of learning, or to one slow at learning, a dullard. 

DUNCEDOM:  The realm or domain of dunces. [Jocose] Carlyle. 

DUNCERY:  Dullness; stupidity. 

DUNCICAL:  Like a dunce; duncish. The most dull and duncical commissioner. Fuller. 

DUNCIFY:  To make stupid in intellect. [R.] Bp. Warburton. 

DUNCISH:  Somewhat like a dunce. [R.] -- Dun"cish*ness, n. [R.] 

DUNDER:  The lees or dregs of cane juice, used in the distillation of rum. [West Indies] The use of dunder in the making of rum answers the purpose of yeast in the fermentation of flour. B. Edwards. 

DUNDERHEAD:  A dunce; a numskull; a blockhead. Beau. & Fl.  DUNDER-HEADED Dun"der-head`ed, a.  Thick-headed; stupid. 

DUNDERPATE:  See Dunderhead. 

DUNE:  A low hill of drifting sand usually formed on the coats, but often carried far inland by the prevailing winds. [Written also dun.] Three great rivers, the Rhine, the Meuse, and the Scheldt, had deposited their slime for ages among the dunes or sand banks heaved up by the ocean around their mouths. Motley. 

DUNFISH:  Codfish cured in a particular manner, so as to be of a superior quality. 

DUNG:  The excrement of an animal. Bacon. 

DUNG:  To immerse or steep, as calico, in a bath of hot water containing cow dung; -- done to remove the superfluous mordant. 

DUNG:  To void excrement. Swift. 

DUNGAREE:  A coarse kind of unbleached cotton stuff. [Written also dungari.] [India] 

DUNGEON:  A close, dark prison, commondonjon or keep of a castle, these being used as prisons. Down with him even into the deep dungeon. Tyndale. Year after year he lay patiently in a dungeon. Macaulay. 

DUNGEON:  To shut up in a dungeon. Bp. Hall. 

DUNGFORK:  A fork for tossing dung. 

DUNGMEER:  A pit where dung and weeds rot for manure. 

DUNGY:  Full of dung; filthy; vile; low. Shak. 

DUNGYARD:  A yard where dung is collected. 

DUNKER:  One of a religious denomination whose tenets and practices are mainly those of the Baptists, but partly those of the Quakers; -- called also Tunkers, Dunkards, Dippers, and, by themselves, Brethren, and German Baptists.  Note: The denomination was founded in Germany in 1708, but after a few years the members emigrated to the United States. Seventh-day Dunkers, a sect which separated from the Dunkers and formed a community, in 1728. They keep the seventh day or Saturday as the Sabbath. 

DUNLIN:  A species of sandpiper (Tringa alpina); -- called also churr, dorbie, grass bird, and red-backed sandpiper. It is found both in Europe and America. 

DUNNAGE:  Fagots, boughs, or loose materials of any kind, laid on the bottom of the hold for the cargo to rest upon to prevent injury by water, or stowed among casks and other cargo to prevent their motion. 

DUNNER:  One employed in soliciting the payment of debts. 

DUNNISH:  Inclined to a dun color. Ray. 

DUNNOCK:  The hedge sparrow or hedge accentor. [Local, Eng.] 

DUNNY:  Deaf; stupid.[Prov. Eng.] My old dame Joan is something dunny, and will scarce know how to manage. Sir W. Scott. 

DUNT:  A blow. [Obs.] R. of Glouc. 

DUNTED:  Beaten; hence, blunted. [Obs.] Fencer's swords . . . having the edge dunted. Fuller. 

DUNTER:  A porpoise. [Scott.] Dunter goose (Zoöl.) the eider duck. J. Brand. 

DUO:  A composition for two performers; a duet.  DUODECAHEDRAL; DUODECAHEDRON Du`o*dec`a*he"dral, a., Du`o*dec`a*he"dron (, n.  See Dodecahedral, and Dodecahedron. 

DUODECENNIAL:  Consisting of twelve years. [R.] Ash. 

DUODECIMAL:  Proceeding in computation by twelves; expressed in the scale of twelves.  -- Du`o*dec"i*mal*ly, adv. 

DUODECIMAL:  A system of numbers, whose denominations rise in a scale of twelves, as of feet and inches. The system is used chiefly by artificers in computing the superficial and solid contents of their work. 

DUODECIMFID:  Divided into twelve parts. 

DUODECIMO:  Having twelve leaves to a sheet; as, a duodecimo from, book, leaf, size, etc. 

DUODECIMO:  A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into twelve leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of a book; -- usually written 12mo or 12º. 

DUODECUPLE:  Consisting of twelves. Arbuthnot. 

DUODENAL:  Of or pertaining to the duodenum; as, duodenal digestion. 

DUODENARY:  Containing twelve; twelvefold; increasing by twelves; duodecimal. 

DUODENUM:  The part of the small intestines between the stomach and the jejunum. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, under Digestive. 

DUOGRAPH:  A picture printed from two half-tone plates made with the screen set at different angles, and usually printed in two shades of the same color or in black and one tint. 

DUOLITERAL:  Consisting of two letters only; biliteral. Stuart. 

DUOMO:  A cathedral. See Dome, 2. Of tower or duomo, sunny sweet. Tennyson. 

DUOTONE:  Any picture printed in two shades of the same color, as duotypes and duographs are usually printed. 

DUOTYPE:  A print made from two half-tone plates made from the same negative, but etched differently. 

DUP:  To open; as, to dup the door. [Obs.] Shak. 

DUPABLE:  Capable of being duped. 

DUPE:  One who has been deceived or who is easily deceived; a gull; as, the dupe of a schemer. 

DUPE:  To deceive; to trick; to mislead by imposing on one's credulity; to gull; as, dupe one by flattery. Ne'er have I duped him with base counterfeits. Coleridge. 

DUPER:  One who dupes another. 

DUPERY:  The act or practice of duping. [R.] 

DUPION:  A double cocoon, made by two silkworms. 

DUPLE:  Double. Duple ratio (Math.), that in which the antecedent term is double the consequent, as of 2 to 1, 8 to 4, etc. 

DUPLEX:  Double; twofold. Duplex escapement, a peculiar kind of watch escapement, in which the scape-wheel has two sets of teeth. See Escapement.  -- Duplex lathe, one for turning off, screwing, and surfacing, by means of two cutting tools, on opposite sides of the piece operated upon.  -- Duplex pumping engine, a steam pump in which two steam cylinders are placed side by side, one operating the valves of the other.  -- Duplex querela Etym: [L., double complaint] (Eccl. Law), a complaint in the nature of an appeal from the ordinary to his immediate superior, as from a bishop to an archbishop. Mozley & W.  -- Duplex telegraphy, a system of telegraphy for sending two messages over the same wire simultaneously.  -- Duplex watch, one with a duplex escapement. 

DUPLICATE:  Double; twofold. Duplicate proportion or ratio (Math.), the proportion or ratio of squares. Thus, in geometrical proportion, the first term to the third is said to be in a duplicate ratio of the first to the second, or as its square is to the square of the second. Thus, in 2, 4, 8, 16, the ratio of 2 to 8 is a duplicate of that of 2 to 4, or as the square of 2 is to the square of 4. 

DUPLICATE:  An original instrument repeated; a document which is the same as another in all essential particulars, and differing from a mere copy in having all the validity of an original. Burrill. 

DUPLICATE:  To divide into two by natural growth or spontaneous action; as, infusoria duplicate themselves. 

DUPLICATION:  The act or process of dividing by natural growth or spontaneous action; as, the duplication of cartilage cells. Carpenter. Duplication of the cube (Math.), the operation of finding a cube having a volume which is double that of a given cube. 

DUPLICATIVE:  Having the quality of subdividing into two by natural growth. "Duplicative subdivision." Carpenter. 

DUPLICATURE:  A doubling; a fold, as of a membrane. 

DUPPER:  See 2d Dubber. 

DUR:  Major; in the major mode; as, C dur, that is, C major. 

DURA:  Short form for Dura mater. 

DURABILITY:  The state or quality of being durable; the power of uninterrupted or long continuance in any condition; the power of resisting agents or influences which tend to cause changes, decay, or dissolution; lastingness. A Gothic cathedral raises ideas of grandeur in our minds by the size, its height, . . . its antiquity, and its durability. Blair. 

DURABLE:  Able to endure or continue in a particular condition; lasting; not perishable or changeable; not wearing out or decaying soon; enduring; as, durable cloth; durable happiness. Riches and honor are with me; yea, durable riches and righteousness. Prov. viii. 18. An interest which from its object and grounds must be so durable. De Quincey.  Syn.  -- Lasting; permanent; enduring; firm; stable; continuing; constant; persistent. See Lasting. 

DURABLENESS:  Power of lasting, enduring, or resisting; durability. The durableness of the metal that supports it. Addison. 

DURABLY:  In a lasting manner; with long continuance. 

DURAL:  Pertaining to the dura, or dura mater.  DURA MATER Du"ra ma"ter. Etym: [L., lit., hard mother. The membrane was called mater, or mother, because it was formerly thought to give rise to every membrane of the body.] (Anat.)  The tough, fibrous membrane, which lines the cavity of the skull and spinal column, and surrounds the brain and spinal cord; -- frequently abbreviated to dura. 

DURAMEN:  The heartwood of an exogenous tree. 

DURANCY:  Duration. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

DURANT:  See Durance, 3. 

DURANTE:  During; as, durante vita, during life; durante bene placito, during pleasure. 

DURATION:  The state or quality of lasting; continuance in time; the portion of time during which anything exists. It was proposed that the duration of Parliament should be limited. Macaulay. Soon shall have passed our own human duration. D. Webster. 

DURATIVE:  Continuing; not completed; implying duration. Its durative tense, which expresses the thought of it as going on. J. Byrne. 

DURBAR:  An audience hall; the court of a native prince; a state levee; a formal reception of native princes, given by the governor general of India. [India] [Written also darbar.] 

DURE:  Hard; harsh; severe; rough; toilsome. [R.] The winter is severe, and life is dure and rude. W. H. Russell. 

DURE:  To last; to continue; to endure. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while. Matt. xiii. 21. 

DUREFUL:  Lasting. [Obs.] Spenser. 

DURELESS:  Not lasting. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

DURENE:  A colorless, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C6H2(CH3)4, off artificial production, with an odor like camphor. 

DURESS:  The state of compulsion or necessity in which a person is influenced, whether by the unlawful restrain of his liberty or by actual or threatened physical violence, to incur a civil liability or to commit an offense. 

DURESS:  To subject to duress. "The party duressed." Bacon. 

DURESSOR:  One who subjects another to duress Bacon. 

DURGA:  Same as Doorga. 

DURHAM:  One or a breed of short-horned cattle, originating in the county of Durham, England. The Durham cattle are noted for their beef-producing quality.  DURIAN; DURION Du"ri*an, or Du"ri*on, n. (Bot.)  The fruit of the durio. It is oval or globular, and eight or ten inches long. It has a hard prickly rind, containing a soft, cream-colored pulp, of a most delicious flavor and a very offensive odor. The seeds are roasted and eaten like chestnuts. 

DURING:  In the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as, during life; during the space of a year. 

DURIO:  A fruit tree (D. zibethinus, the only species known) of the Indian Archipelago. It bears the durian. 

DUROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the degree of hardness; especially, an instrument for testing the relative hardness of steel rails and the like. 

DUROUS:  Hard. [Obs. & R.] 

DURRA:  A kind of millet, cultivated throughout Asia, and introduced into the south of Europe; a variety of Sorghum vulgare; -- called also Indian millet, and Guinea corn. [Written also dhoorra, dhurra, doura, etc.] 

DURST:  of Dare. See Dare, v. i. 

DURUKULI:  A small, nocturnal, South American monkey (Nyctipthecus trivirgatus). [Written also douroucouli.] 

DURYLIC:  Pertaining to, allied to, or derived from, durene; as, durylic acid. 

DUSE:  A demon or spirit. See Deuce. 

DUSK:  Tending to darkness or blackness; moderately dark or black; dusky. A pathless desert, dusk with horrid shades. Milton. 

DUSK:  To make dusk. [Archaic] After the sun is up, that shadow which dusketh the light of the moon must needs be under the earth. Holland. 

DUSK:  To grow dusk. [R.] Chaucer. 

DUSKEN:  To make dusk or obscure. [R.] Not utterly defaced, but only duskened. Nicolls. 

DUSKILY:  In a dusky manner. Byron. 

DUSKINESS:  The state of being dusky. 

DUSKISH:  Somewhat dusky. " Duskish smoke." Spenser.  -- Dusk"ish*ly, adv.  -- Dusk"ish*ness, n. 

DUSKNESS:  Duskiness. [R.] Sir T. Elyot. 

DUST:  Coined money; cash. Down with the dust, deposit the cash; pay down the money. [Slang] "My lord, quoth the king, presently deposit your hundred pounds in gold, or else no going hence all the days of your life. . . . The Abbot down with his dust, and glad he escaped so, returned to Reading." Fuller.  -- Dust brand (Bot.), a fungous plant (Ustilago Carbo); -- called also smut.  -- Gold dust, fine particles of gold, such as are obtained in placer mining; -- often used as money, being transferred by weight.  -- In dust and ashes. See under Ashes.  -- To bite the dust. See under Bite, v. t.  -- To raise, or kick up, dust, to make a commotion. [Colloq.] -- To throw dust in one's eyes, to mislead; to deceive. [Colloq.] 

DUSTBRUSH:  A brush of feathers, bristles, or hair, for removing dust from furniture. 

DUSTER:  A blowing machine for separating the flour from the bran.  2. A light over-garment, worn in traveling to protect the clothing from dust. [U.S.] 

DUSTINESS:  The state of being dusty. 

DUSTLESS:  Without dust; as a dustless path. 

DUSTMAN:  One whose employment is to remove dirt and defuse. Gay. 

DUSTPAN:  A shovel-like utensil for conveying away dust brushed from the floor.  DUST-POINT Dust"-point`, n.  An old rural game. With any boy at dust-point they shall play. Peacham (1620). 

DUTCH:  Pertaining to Holland, or to its inhabitants. Dutch auction. See under Auction.  -- Dutch cheese, a small, pound, hard cheese, made from skim milk.  -- Dutch clinker, a kind of brick made in Holland. It is yellowish, very hard, and long and narrow in shape.  -- Dutch clover (Bot.), common white clover (Trifolium repens), the seed of which was largely imported into England from Holland.  -- Dutch concert, a so-called concert in which all the singers sing at the same time different songs. [Slang] -- Dutch courage, the courage of partial intoxication. [Slang] Marryat.  -- Dutch door, a door divided into two parts, horizontally, so arranged that the lower part can be shut and fastened, while the upper part remains open.  -- Dutch foil, Dutch leaf, or Dutch gold, a kind of brass rich in copper, rolled or beaten into thin sheets, used in Holland to ornament toys and paper; -- called also Dutch mineral, Dutch metal, brass foil, and bronze leaf.  -- Dutch liquid (Chem.), a thin, colorless, volatile liquid, C2H4Cl2, of a sweetish taste and a pleasant ethereal odor, produced by the union of chlorine and ethylene or olefiant gas; -- called also Dutch oil. It is so called because discovered (in 1795) by an association of four Hollandish chemists. See Ethylene, and Olefiant.  -- Dutch oven, a tin screen for baking before an open fire or kitchen range; also, in the United States, a shallow iron kettle for baking, with a cover to hold burning coals.  -- Dutch pink, chalk, or whiting dyed yellow, and used in distemper, and for paper staining. etc. Weale.  -- Dutch rush (Bot.), a species of horsetail rush or Equisetum (E. hyemale) having a rough, siliceous surface, and used for scouring and polishing; -- called also scouring rush, and shave grass. See Equisetum.  -- Dutch tile, a glazed and painted ornamental tile, formerly much exported, and used in the jambs of chimneys and the like.  Note: Dutch was formerly used for German. Germany is slandered to have sent none to this war [the Crusades] at this first voyage; and that other pilgrims, passing through that country, were mocked by the Dutch, and called fools for their pains. Fuller. 

DUTCH:  The people of Holland; Dutchmen.  2. The language spoken in Holland. 

DUTCHMAN:  A native, or one of the people, of Holland. Dutchman's breeches (Bot.), a perennial American herb (Dicentra cucullaria), with peculiar double-spurred flowers. See Illust. of Dicentra.  -- Dutchman's laudanum (Bot.), a West Indian passion flower (Passiflora Murucuja); also, its fruit.  -- Dutchman's pipe (Bot.), an American twining shrub (Aristolochia Sipho). Its flowers have their calyx tubes curved like a tobacco pipe. 

DUTIABLE:  Subject to the payment of a duty; as dutiable goods. [U.S.] All kinds of dutiable merchandise. Hawthorne. 

DUTIED:  Subjected to a duty. Ames. 

DUTY:  The efficiency of an engine, especially a steam pumping engine, as measured by work done by a certain quantity of fuel; usually, the number of pounds of water lifted one foot by one bushel of coal (94 lbs. old standard), or by 1 cwt. (112 lbs., England, or 100 lbs., United States).  7. (Com.)  Tax, toll, impost, or customs; excise; any sum of money required by government to be paid on the importation, exportation, or consumption of goods.  Note: An impost on land or other real estate, and on the stock of farmers, is not called a duty, but a direct tax. [U.S.] Ad valorem duty, a duty which is graded according to the cost, or market value, of the article taxed. See Ad valorem.  -- Specific duty, a duty of a specific sum assessed on an article without reference to its value or market.  -- On duty, actually engaged in the performance of one's assigned task. 

DUUMVIR:  One of two Roman officers or magistrates united in the same public functions. 

DUUMVIRAL:  Of or belonging to the duumviri or the duumvirate. 

DUUMVIRATE:  The union of two men in the same office; or the office, dignity, or government of two men thus associated, as in ancient Rome. 

DUX:  The scholastic name for the theme or subject of a fugue, the answer being called the comes, or companion. 

DUYKERBOK:  A small South African antelope (Cephalous mergens); -- called also impoon, and deloo. 

DUYOUNG:  See Dugong.  D VALVE D" valve`. (Mech.)  A kind of slide valve. See Slide valve, under Slide. 

DVERGR:  A dwarf supposed to dwell in rocks and hills and to be skillful in working metals. 

DWALE:  The deadly nightshade (Atropa Belladonna), having stupefying qualities.  2. (Her.)  The tincture sable or black when blazoned according to the fantastic system in which plants are substituted for the tinctures.  3. A sleeping potion; an opiate. Chaucer. 

DWANG:  A piece of wood set between two studs, posts, etc., to stiffen and support them.  2. (Mech.) (a) A kind of crowbar. (b) A large wrench. Knight. 

DWARF:  An animal or plant which is much below the ordinary size of its species or kind; especially, a diminutive human being.  Note: During the Middle Ages dwarfs as well as fools shared the favor of courts and the nobility.  Note: Dwarf is used adjectively in reference to anything much below the usual or normal size; as, dwarf tree; dwarf honeysuckle. Dwarf elder (Bot.), danewort.  -- Dwarf wall (Arch.), a low wall, not as high as the story of a building, often used as a garden wall or fence. Gwilt. 

DWARF:  To hinder from growing to the natural size; to make or keep small; to stunt. Addison. Even the most common moral ideas and affections . . . would be stunted and dwarfed, if cut off from a spiritual background. J. C. Shairp. 

DWARF:  To become small; to diminish in size. Strange power of the world that, the moment we enter it, our great conceptions dwarf. Beaconsfield. 

DWARFISH:  Like a dwarf; below the common stature or size; very small; petty; as, a dwarfish animal, shrub.  -- Dwarf"ish*ly, adv.  -- Dwarf"ish*ness, n. 

DWARFLING:  A diminutive dwarf. 

DWARFY:  Much undersized. [R.] Waterhouse.  DWAUL; DWAULE Dwaul, Dwaule, v. i. Etym: [See Dull, Dwell.]  To be delirious. [Obs.] Junius. 

DWELL:  To inhabit. [R.] Milton. 

DWELLER:  An inhabitant; a resident; as, a cave dweller. "Dwellers at Jerusalem." Acts i. 19. 

DWELLING:  Habitation; place or house in which a person lives; abode; domicile. Hazor shall be a dwelling for dragons. Jer. xlix. 33. God will deign To visit oft the dwellings of just men. Milton. Philip's dwelling fronted on the street. Tennyson. Dwelling house, a house intended to be occupied as a residence, in distinction from a store, office, or other building.  -- Dwelling place, place of residence. 

DWELT:  of Dwell. 

DWINDLE:  To diminish; to become less; to shrink; to waste or consume away; to become degenerate; to fall away. Weary sennights nine times nine Shall he dwindle, peak and pine. Shak. Religious societies, though begun with excellent intentions, are said to have dwindled into factious clubs. Swift. 

DWINDLE:  The process of dwindling; dwindlement; decline; degeneracy. [R.] Johnson. 

DWINDLEMENT:  The act or process of dwindling; a dwindling. [R.] Mrs. Oliphant. 

DWINE:  To waste away; to pine; to languish. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Gower. 

DYAD:  An element, atom, or radical having a valence or combining power of two. 

DYAD:  Having a valence or combining power of two; capable of being substituted for, combined with, or replaced by, two atoms of hydrogen; as, oxygen and calcium are dyad elements. See Valence. 

DYADIC:  Pertaining to the number two; of two parts or elements. Dyadic arithmetic, the same as binary arithmetic. 

DYAKS:  ; sing. Dyak. (Ethnol.) The aboriginal and most numerous inhabitants of Borneo. They are partially civilized, but retain many barbarous practices. 

DYAS:  A name applied in Germany to the Permian formation, there consisting of two principal groups. 

DYE:  To stain; to color; to give a new and permanent color to, as by the application of dyestuffs. Cloth to be dyed of divers colors. Trench. The soul is dyed by its thoughts. Lubbock. To dye in the grain, To dye in the wool (Fig.), to dye firmly; to imbue thoroughly. He might truly be termed a legitimate son of the revenue system dyed in the wool. Hawthorne.  Syn.  -- See Stain. 

DYE:  Same as Die, a lot. Spenser. 

DYEHOUSE:  A building in which dyeing is carried on. 

DYEING:  The process or art of fixing coloring matters permanently and uniformly in the fibers of wool, cotton, etc. 

DYER:  One whose occupation is to dye cloth and the like. Dyer's broom, Dyer's rocket, Dyer's weed. See Dyer's broom, under Broom. 

DYESTUFF:  A material used for dyeing. 

DYEWOOD:  Any wood from which coloring matter is extracted for dyeing. 

DYING:  The act of expiring; passage from life to death; loss of life. 

DYINGLY:  In a dying manner; as if at the point of death. Beau. & Fl. 

DYINGNESS:  The state of dying or the stimulation of such a state; extreme languor; languishment. [R.] Tenderness becomes me best, a sort of dyingness; you see that picture, Foible, -- a swimmingness in the eyes; yes, I'll look so. Congreve. 

DYKE:  See Dike. The spelling dyke is restricted by some to the geological meaning. 

DYNACTINOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the intensity of the photogenic (light-producing) rays, and computing the power of object glasses. 

DYNAM:  A unit of measure for dynamical effect or work; a foot pound. See Foot pound. Whewell. 

DYNAMETER:  An instrument for determining the magnifying power of telescopes, consisting usually of a doubleimage micrometer applied to the eye end of a telescope for measuring accurately the diameter of the image of the object glass there formed; which measurement, compared with the actual diameter of the glass, gives the magnifying power. 

DYNAMETRICAL:  Pertaining to a dynameter.  DYNAMIC; DYNAMICAL Dy*nam"ic, Dy*nam"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. durus hard, E. dure: cf. F. dynamique.]  1. Of or pertaining to dynamics; belonging to energy or power; characterized by energy or production of force. Science, as well as history, has its past to show, -- a past indeed, much larger; but its immensity is dynamic, not divine. J. Martineau. The vowel is produced by phonetic, not by dynamic, causes. J. Peile.  2. Relating to physical forces, effects, or laws; as, dynamical geology. As natural science has become more dynamic, so has history. Prof. Shedd. Dynamical electricity. See under Electricity. 

DYNAMICALLY:  In accordance with the principles of dynamics or moving forces. J. Peile. 

DYNAMICS:  That department of musical science which relates to, or treats of, the power of tones. 

DYNAMISM:  The doctrine of Leibnitz, that all substance involves force. 

DYNAMIST:  One who accounts for material phenomena by a theory of dynamics. Those who would resolve matter into centers of force may be said to constitute the school of dynamists. Ward (Dyn. Sociol. ). 

DYNAMITARD:  A political dynamiter.  Note: [A form found in some newspapers.] 

DYNAMITE:  An explosive substance consisting of nitroglycerin absorbed by some inert, porous solid, as infusorial earth, sawdust, etc. It is safer than nitroglycerin, being less liable to explosion from moderate shocks, or from spontaneous decomposition. 

DYNAMITER:  One who uses dynamite; esp., one who uses it for the destruction of life and property. 

DYNAMITING:  Destroying by dynamite, for political ends. Dynamiting is not the American way. The Century. 

DYNAMITISM:  The work of dynamiters. 

DYNAMIZATION:  The act of setting free the dynamic powers of a medicine, as by shaking the bottle containing it. 

DYNAMO:  A dynamo-electric machine.  DYNAMO-ELECTRIC Dy`na*mo-e*lec"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. electric. See Dynamic.]  Pertaining to the development of electricity, especially electrical currents, by power; producing electricity or electrical currents by mechanical power. 

DYNAMOGRAPH:  A dynamometer to which is attached a device for automatically registering muscular power. 

DYNAMOMETER:  An apparatus for measuring force or power; especially, muscular effort of men or animals, or the power developed by a motor, or that required to operate machinery.  Note: It usually embodies a spring to be compressed or weight to be sustained by the force applied, combined with an index, or automatic recorder, to show the work performed.  DYNAMOMETRIC; DYNAMOMETRICAL Dy`na*mo*met"ric, Dy`na*mo*met"ric*al, a.  Relating to a dynamometer, or to the measurement of force doing work; as, dynamometrical instruments. 

DYNAMOMETRY:  The art or process of measuring forces doing work. 

DYNASTA:  A tyrant. [Obs.] Milton. 

DYNASTIC:  Of or relating to a dynasty or line of kings. Motley. 

DYNASTICAL:  Dynastic. 

DYNASTIDAN:  One of a group of gigantic, horned beetles, including Dynastus Neptunus, and the Hercules beetle (D. Hercules) of tropical America, which grow to be six inches in length. 

DYNE:  The unit of force, in the C. G. S. (Centimeter Gram Second) system of physical units; that is, the force which, acting on a gram for a second, generates a velocity of a centimeter per second.  DYS- Dys-.  An inseparable prefix, fr. the Greek ill, bad, hard, difficult, and the like; cf. the prefixes, Skr. dus-, Goth. tuz-, OHG. zur-, G. zer-, AS. to-, Icel. tor-, Ir. do-. 

DYSAESTHESIA:  Impairment of any of the senses, esp. of touch. 

DYSCRASIA:  An ill habit or state of the constitution; -- formerly regarded as dependent on a morbid condition of the blood and humors. 

DYSCRASITE:  A mineral consisting of antimony and silver. 

DYSCRASY:  Dycrasia. Sin is a cause of dycrasies and distempers. Jer. Taylor.  DYSENTERIC; DYSENTERICAL Dys`en*ter"ic, Dys`en*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. dysentericus, Gr. dysentérigue.]  Of or pertaining to dysentery; having dysentery; as, a dysenteric patient. "Dysenteric symptoms." Copland. 

DYSENTERY:  A disease attended with inflammation and ulceration of the colon and rectum, and characterized by griping pains, constant desire to evacuate the bowels, and the discharge of mucus and blood.  Note: When acute, dysentery is usually accompanied with high fevers. It occurs epidemically, and is believed to be communicable through the medium of the alvine discharges. 

DYSGENESIC:  Not procreating or breeding freely; as, one race may be dysgenesic with respect to another. Darwin. 

DYSGENESIS:  A condition of not generating or breeding freely; infertility; a form homogenesis in which the hybrids are sterile among themselves, but are fertile with members of either parent race. 

DYSLOGISTIC:  Unfavorable; not commendatory; -- opposed to eulogistic. There is no course of conduct for which dyslogistic or eulogistic epithets may be found. J. F. Stephen. The paternity of dyslogistic -- no bantling, but now almost a centenarian -- is adjudged to that genius of common sense, Jeremy Bentham. Fitzed. Hall. 

DYSLUITE:  A variety of the zinc spinel or gahnite. 

DYSLYSIN:  A resinous substance formed in the decomposition of cholic acid of bile; -- so called because it is difficult to solve. 

DYSMENORRHEA:  Difficult and painful menstruation. 

DYSNOMY:  Bad legislation; the enactment of bad laws. Cockeram. 

DYSODILE:  An impure earthy or coaly bitumen, which emits a highly fetid odor when burning.  DYSPEPSIA; DYSPEPSY Dys*pep"si*a, Dys*pep"sy,Etym: [L. dyspepsia, Gr. cook: cf. F. dyspepsie. See Dys-, and 3d Cook.] (Med.)  A kind of indigestion; a state of the stomach in which its functions are disturbed, without the presence of other diseases, or, if others are present, they are of minor importance. Its symptoms are loss of appetite, nausea, heartburn, acrid or fetid eructations, a sense of weight or fullness in the stomach, etc. Dunglison.  DYSPEPTIC; DYSPEPTICAL Dys*pep"tic, Dys*pep"tic*al, a.  Pertaining to dyspepsia; having dyspepsia; as, a dyspeptic or dyspeptical symptom. 

DYSPEPTIC:  A person afflicted with dyspepsia. 

DYSPEPTONE:  An insoluble albuminous body formed from casein and other proteid substances by the action of gastric juice. Meissner.  DYSPHAGIA; DYSPHAGY Dys*pha"gi*a, Dys"pha*gy, n. Etym: [NL. dysphagia, fr. Gr. (Med.)  Difficulty in swallowing.  DYSPHONIA; DYSPHONY Dys*pho"ni*a, Dys"pho*ny, n. Etym: [NL. dysphonia, Gr. dysphonie.] (Med.)  A difficulty in producing vocal sounds; enfeebled or depraved voice. 

DYSPHORIA:  Impatience under affliction; morbid restlessness; dissatisfaction; the fidgets.  DYSPNEA; DYSPNOEA Dysp*nea, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. dyspnée.] (Med.)  Difficulty of breathing. 

DYSPNOIC:  Affected with shortness of breath; relating to dyspn 

DYSPROSIUM:  An element of the rare earth-group. Symbol Dy; at. wt., 162.5. 

DYSTELEOLOGY:  The doctrine of purposelessness; a term applied by Haeckel to that branch of physiology which treats of rudimentary organs, in view of their being useless to the life of the organism. To the doctrine of dysteleology, or the denial of final causes, a proof of the real existence of such a thing as instinct must necessarily be fatal. Word (Dynamic Sociology). 

DYSTOCIA:  Difficult delivery pr parturition. 

DYSTOME:  Cleaving with difficulty.  Note: Datolite was called dystome spar by Mohs.  DYSURIA; DYSURY Dys*u"ri*a, Dys"u*ry, n. Etym: [L. dysuria, Gr. dysurie.] (Med.)  Difficult or painful discharge of urine. 

DYSURIC:  Pertaining to, or afflicted with, dysury.  DZEREN; DZERON Dze"ren, Dze"ron, n. (Zoöl.)  The Chinese yellow antelope (Procapra gutturosa), a remarkably swift-footed animal, inhabiting the deserts of Central Asia, Thibet, and China. 

DZIGGETAI:  The kiang, a wild horse or wild ass of Thibet (Asinus hemionus).  Note: The name is sometimes applied also to the koulan or onager. See Koulan. 

E:  E is the third tone of the model diatonic scale. E (E flat) is a tone which is intermediate between D and E.  E- E-.  A Latin prefix meaning out, out of, from; also, without. See Ex-. 

EACHWHERE:  Everywhere. [Obs.] The sky eachwhere did show full bright and fair. Spenser. 

EADISH:  See Eddish. 

EAGER:  Same as Eagre. 

EAGERLY:  In an eager manner. 

EAGLE:  Any large, rapacious bird of the Falcon family, esp. of the genera Aquila and Haliæetus. The eagle is remarkable for strength, size, graceful figure, keenness of vision, and extraordinary flight. The most noted species are the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaëtus); the imperial eagle of Europe (A. mogilnik or imperialis); the American bald eagle (Haliæetus leucocephalus); the European sea eagle (H. albicilla); and the great harpy eagle (Thrasaetus harpyia). The figure of the eagle, as the king of birds, is commonly used as an heraldic emblem, and also for standards and emblematic devices. See Bald eagle, Harpy, and Golden eagle.  2. A gold coin of the United States, of the value of ten dollars.  3. (Astron.)  A northern constellation, containing Altair, a star of the first magnitude. See Aquila.  4. The figure of an eagle borne as an emblem on the standard of the ancient Romans, or so used upon the seal or standard of any people. Though the Roman eagle shadow thee. Tennyson.  Note: Some modern nations, as the United States, and France under the Bonapartes, have adopted the eagle as their national emblem. Russia, Austria, and Prussia have for an emblem a double-headed eagle. Bald eagle. See Bald eagle.  -- Bold eagle. See under Bold.  -- Double eagle, a gold coin of the United States worth twenty dollars.  -- Eagle hawk (Zoöl.), a large, crested, South American hawk of the genus Morphnus.  -- Eagle owl (Zoöl.), any large owl of the genus Bubo, and allied genera; as the American great horned owl (Bubo Virginianus), and the allied European species (B. maximus). See Horned owl.  -- Eagle ray (Zoöl.), any large species of ray of the genus Myliobatis (esp. M. aquila).  -- Eagle vulture (Zoöl.), a large West African bid (Gypohierax Angolensis), intermediate, in several respects, between the eagles and vultures.  EAGLE-EYED Ea"gle-eyed`, a.  Sharp-sighted as an eagle. "Inwardly eagle-eyed." Howell.  EAGLE-SIGHTED Ea"gle-sight`ed, a.  Farsighted and strong-sighted; sharp-sighted. Shak. 

EAGLESS:  A female or hen eagle. [R.] Sherwood. 

EAGLESTONE:  A concretionary nodule of clay ironstone, of the size of a walnut or larger, so called by the ancients, who believed that the eagle transported these stones to her nest to facilitate the laying of her eggs; aëtites. 

EAGLET:  A young eagle, or a diminutive eagle.  EAGLE-WINGED Ea"gle-winged`, a.  Having the wings of an eagle; swift, or soaring high, like an eagle. Shak. 

EAGLEWOOD:  A kind of fragrant wood. See Agallochum. 

EAGRASS:  See Eddish. [Obs.] 

EAGRE:  A wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height and violence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonly called the bore. See Bore.  EALDERMAN; EALDORMAN Eal"der*man, Eal"dor*man, n.  An alderman. [Obs.] 

EALE:  Ale. [Obs.] Shak. 

EAME:  Uncle. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EAN:  To bring forth, as young; to yean. "In eaning time." Shak. 

EANLING:  A lamb just brought forth; a yeanling. Shak. 

EAR:  To take in with the ears; to hear. [Sportive] "I eared her language." Two Noble Kinsmen. 

EAR:  The spike or head of any cereal (as, wheat, rye, barley, Indian corn, etc.), containing the kernels. First the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear. Mark iv. 28. 

EAR:  To put forth ears in growing; to form ears, as grain; as, this corn ears well. 

EAR:  To plow or till; to cultivate. "To ear the land." Shak. 

EARABLE:  Arable; tillable. [Archaic] 

EARACHE:  Ache or pain in the ear. 

EARAL:  Receiving by the ear. [Obs.] Hewyt.  EAR-BORED Ear"-bored`, a.  Having the ear perforated. 

EARCAP:  A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold. 

EARCOCKLE:  A disease in wheat, in which the blackened and contracted grain, or ear, is filled with minute worms. 

EARDROP:  A species of primrose. See Auricula. 

EARDRUM:  The tympanum. See Illust. of Ear. 

EARED:  Having external ears; having tufts of feathers resembling ears. Eared owl (Zoöl.), an owl having earlike tufts of feathers, as the long-eared owl, and short-eared owl.  -- Eared seal (Zoöl.), any seal of the family Otariidæ, including the fur seals and hair seals. See Seal. 

EARINESS:  Fear or timidity, especially of something supernatural. [Written also eiryness.] The sense of eariness, as twilight came on. De Quincey. 

EARING:  Coming into ear, as corn. 

EARING:  A plowing of land. [Archaic] Neither earing nor harvest. Gen. xlv. 6. 

EARL:  A nobleman of England ranking below a marquis, and above a viscount. The rank of an earl corresponds to that of a count (comte) in France, and graf in Germany. Hence the wife of an earl is still called countess. See Count. 

EARL:  The needlefish. [Ireland] 

EARLAP:  The lobe of the ear. 

EARLDORMAN:  Alderman. [Obs.] 

EARLDUCK:  The red-breasted merganser (Merganser serrator).  EARLES PENNY Earles" pen`ny. Etym: [Cf. Arles, 4th Earnest.]  Earnest money. Same as Arles penny. [Obs.] 

EARLESS:  Without ears; hence, deaf or unwilling to hear. Pope. 

EARLET:  An earring. [Obs.] The Ismaelites were accustomed to wear golden earlets. Judg. viii. 24 (Douay version). 

EARLINESS:  The state of being early or forward; promptness.  EARL MARSHAL Earl" mar"shal.  An officer of state in England who marshals and orders all great ceremonials, takes cognizance of matters relating to honor, arms, and pedigree, and directs the proclamation of peace and war. The court of chivalry was formerly under his jurisdiction, and he is still the head of the herald's office or college of arms. 

EARLOCK:  A lock or curl of hair near the ear; a lovelock. See Lovelock. 

EARLY:  Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early. Those that me early shall find me. Prov. viii. 17. You must wake and call me early. Tennyson. 

EARMARK:  To mark, as sheep, by cropping or slitting the ear.  EAR-MINDED Ear"-mind"ed, a. (Physiol. Psychol.)  Thinking chiefly or most readily through, or in terms related to, the sense of hearing; specif., thinking words as spoken, as a result of familiarity with speech or of mental peculiarity; -- opposed to eye-minded. 

EARN:  See Ern, n. Sir W. Scott. 

EARN:  To grieve. [Obs.] 

EARN:  To long; to yearn. [Obs.] And ever as he rode, his heart did earn To prove his puissance in battle brave. Spenser. 

EARN:  To curdle, as milk. [Prov. Eng.] 

EARNEST:  Seriousness; reality; fixed determination; eagerness; intentness. Take heed that this jest do not one day turn to earnest. Sir P. Sidney. And given in earnest what I begged in jest. Shak. In earnest, serious; seriously; not in jest; earnestly. 

EARNEST:  To use in earnest. [R.] To earnest them [our arms] with men. Pastor Fido (1602). 

EARNEST:  Something of value given by the buyer to the seller, by way of token or pledge, to bind the bargain and prove the sale. Kent. Ayliffe. Benjamin. Earnest money (Law), money paid as earnest, to bind a bargain or to ratify and prove a sale.  Syn.  -- Earnest, Pledge. These words are here compared as used in their figurative sense. Earnest is not so strong as pledge. An earnest, like first fruits, gives assurance, or at least a high probability, that more is coming of the same kind; a pledge, like money deposited, affords security and ground of reliance for the future. Washington gave earnest of his talent as commander by saving his troops after Braddock's defeat; his fortitude and that of his soldiers during the winter at Valley Forge might rightly be considered a pledge of their ultimate triumph. 

EARNESTFUL:  Serious. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EARNESTLY:  In an earnest manner. 

EARNESTNESS:  The state or quality of being earnest; intentness; anxiety. An honest earnestness in the young man's manner. W. Irving. 

EARNFUL:  Full of anxiety or yearning. [Obs.] P. Fletcher. 

EARNING:  That which is earned; wages gained by work or services; money earned; -- used commonly in the plural. As to the common people, their stock is in their persons and in their earnings. Burke. 

EARPICK:  An instrument for removing wax from the ear.  EAR-PIERCER Ear"-pier`cer, n. (Zoöl.)  The earwig. 

EARREACH:  Earshot. Marston. 

EARRING:  An ornament consisting of a ring passed through the lobe of the ear, with or without a pendant. 

EARSH:  See Arrish.  EAR-SHELL Ear"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  A flattened marine univalve shell of the genus Haliotis; -- called also sea-ear. See Abalone. 

EARSHOT:  Reach of the ear; distance at which words may be heard. Dryden. 

EARSHRIFT:  A nickname for auricular confession; shrift. [Obs.] Cartwright. 

EARSORE:  An annoyance to the ear. [R.] The perpetual jangling of the chimes . . . is no small earsore Sir T. Browne.  EAR-SPLITTING Ear"-split`ting, a.  Deafening; disagreeably loud or shrill; as, ear-splitting strains. 

EARST:  See Erst. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EARTH:  To burrow. Tickell. 

EARTH:  A plowing. [Obs.] Such land as ye break up for barley to sow, Two earths at the least, ere ye sow it, bestow. Tusser. 

EARTHBAG:  A bag filled with earth, used commonly to raise or repair a parapet. 

EARTHBANK:  A bank or mound of earth. 

EARTHBOARD:  The part of a plow, or other implement, that turns over the earth; the moldboard. 

EARTHBRED:  Low; grovelling; vulgar. 

EARTHDIN:  An earthquake. [Obs.] 

EARTHDRAKE:  A mythical monster of the early Anglo-Saxon literature; a dragon. W. Spalding. 

EARTHEN:  Made of earth; made of burnt or baked clay, or other like substances; as, an earthen vessel or pipe.  EARTHEN-HEARTED Earth"en-heart`ed, a.  Hard-hearted; sordid; gross. [Poetic] Lowell. 

EARTHENWARE:  Vessels and other utensils, ornaments, or the like, made of baked clay. See Crockery, Pottery, Stoneware, and Porcelain.  EARTH FLAX Earth" flax`. (Min.)  A variety of asbestus. See Amianthus. 

EARTHFORK:  A pronged fork for turning up the earth. 

EARTHINESS:  The quality or state of being earthy, or of containing earth; hence, grossness. 

EARTHLIGHT:  The sunlight reflected from the earth to the moon, by which we see faintly, when the moon is near the sun (either before or after new moon), that part of the moon's disk unillumined by direct sunlight, or "the old moon in the arms of the new." 

EARTHLINESS:  The quality or state of being earthly; worldliness; grossness; perishableness. 

EARTHLING:  An inhabitant of the earth; a mortal. Earthings oft her deemed a deity. Drummond. 

EARTHLY:  In the manner of the earth or its people; worldly. Took counsel from his guiding eyes To make this wisdom earthly wise. Emerson.  EARTHLY-MINDED Earth"ly-mind`ed, a.  Having a mind devoted to earthly things; worldly-minded; -- opposed to spiritual-minded.  -- Earth"ly-mind`ed*ness, n. 

EARTHMAD:  The earthworm. [Obs.] The earthmads and all the sorts of worms . . . are without eyes. Holland. 

EARTHNUT:  A name given to various roots, tubers, or pods grown under or on the ground; as to: (a) The esculent tubers of the umbelliferous plants Bunium flexuosum and Carum Bulbocastanum. (b) The peanut. See Peanut. 

EARTHPEA:  A species of pea (Amphicarpæa monoica). It is a climbing leguminous plant, with hairy underground pods. 

EARTHQUAKE:  A shaking, trembling, or concussion of the earth, due to subterranean causes, often accompanied by a rumbling noise. The wave of shock sometimes traverses half a hemisphere, destroying cities and many thousand lives; -- called also earthdin, earthquave, and earthshock. Earthquake alarm, a bell signal constructed to operate on the theory that a few seconds before the occurrence of an earthquake the magnet temporarily loses its power. 

EARTHQUAKE:  Like, or characteristic of, an earthquake; loud; starling. The earthquake voice of victory. Byron. 

EARTHQUAVE:  An earthquake.  EARTH SHINE Earth" shine`.  See Earth light, under Earth. 

EARTHSHOCK:  An earthquake. 

EARTHSTAR:  A curious fungus of the genus Geaster, in which the outer coating splits into the shape of a star, and the inner one forms a ball containing the dustlike spores.  EARTH-TONGUE Earth"-tongue`, n. (Bot.)  A fungus of the genus Geoglossum.  EARTHWARD; EARTHWARDS Earth"ward, Earth"wards (, adv.  Toward the earth; -- opposed to heavenward or skyward. 

EARTHWORK:  Any construction, whether a temporary breastwork or permanent fortification, for attack or defense, the material of which is chiefly earth.  2. (Engin.) (a) The operation connected with excavations and embankments of earth in preparing foundations of buildings, in constructing canals, railroads, etc. (b) An embankment or construction made of earth. 

EARTHWORM:  Any worm of the genus Lumbricus and allied genera, found in damp soil. One of the largest and most abundant species in Europe and America is L. terrestris; many others are known; -- called also angleworm and dewworm.  2. A mean, sordid person; a niggard. Norris. 

EARTHY:  Without luster, or dull and roughish to the touch; as, an earthy fracture. 

EARWAX:  See Cerumen. 

EARWIG:  Any insect of the genus Forticula and related genera, belonging to the order Euplexoptera.  2. (Zoöl.)  In America, any small chilopodous myriapod, esp. of the genus Geophilus.  Note: Both insects are so called from the supposition that they creep into the human ear.  3. A whisperer of insinuations; a secret counselor. Johnson. 

EARWIG:  To influence, or attempt to influence, by whispered insinuations or private talk. "No longer was he earwigged by the Lord Cravens." Lord Campbell. 

EARWITNESS:  A witness by means of his ears; one who is within hearing and does hear; a hearer. Fuller. 

EASEFUL:  Full of ease; suitable for affording ease or rest; quiet; comfortable; restful. Shak.  -- Ease"ful*ly, adv.  -- Ease"ful*ness, n. 

EASEL:  A frame (commonly) of wood serving to hold a canvas upright, or nearly upright, for the painter's convenience or for exhibition. Easel picture, Easel piece, a painting of moderate size such as is made while resting on an easel, as distinguished from a painting on a wall or ceiling. 

EASELESS:  Without ease. Donne. 

EASEMENT:  A liberty, privilege, or advantage, which one proprietor has in the estate of another proprietor, distinct from the ownership of the soil, as a way, water course, etc. It is a species of what the civil law calls servitude. Kent.  3. (Arch.)  A curved member instead of an abrupt change of direction, as in a baseboard, hand rail, etc. 

EAST:  Formerly, the part of the United States east of the Alleghany Mountains, esp. the Eastern, or New England, States; now, commonly, the whole region east of the Mississippi River, esp. that which is north of Maryland and the Ohio River; -- usually with the definite article; as, the commerce of the East is not independent of the agriculture of the West. East by north, East by south, according to the notation of the mariner's compass, that point which lies 11 -- East-northeast, East-southeast, that which lie 22Illust. of Compass. 

EAST:  Toward the rising sun; or toward the point where the sun rises when in the equinoctial; as, the east gate; the east border; the east side; the east wind is a wind that blows from the east. 

EAST:  Eastward. 

EAST:  To move toward the east; to veer from the north or south toward the east; to orientate. 

EASTER:  To veer to the east; -- said of the wind. Russell.  EASTER LILY Eas"ter lil`y. (Bot.) Any one of various lilies or lilylike flowers which bloom about Easter; specif.:  (a) The common white lily (Lilium candidum), called also Annunciation lily.  (b) The larger white lily (Lilium longiflorum eximium, syn. L. Harrisii) called also Bermuda lily.  (c) The daffodil (Narcissus Pseudo-Narcissus).  (d) The Atamasco lily. 

EASTERLING:  The smew. 

EASTERLING:  Relating to the money of the Easterlings, or Baltic traders. See Sterling. 

EASTERLY:  Toward, or in the direction of, the east. 

EASTERN:  That portion of the Christian church which prevails in the countries once comprised in the Eastern Roman Empire and the countries converted to Christianity by missionaries from them. Its full official title is The Orthodox Catholic Apostolic Eastern Church. It became estranged from the Western, or Roman, Church over the question of papal supremacy and the doctrine of the filioque, and a separation, begun in the latter part of the 9th century, became final in 1054. The Eastern Church consists of twelve (thirteen if the Bulgarian Church be included) mutually independent churches (including among these the Hellenic Church, or Church of Greece, and the Russian Church), using the vernacular (or some ancient form of it) in divine service and varying in many points of detail, but standing in full communion with each other and united as equals in a great federation. The highest five authorities are the patriarch of Constantinople, or ecumenical patriarch (whose position is not one of supremacy, but of precedence), the patriarch of Alexandria, the patriarch of Jerusalem, the patriarch of Antioch, and the Holy Synod of Russia. The Eastern Church accepts the first seven ecumenical councils (and is hence styled only schismatic, not heretical, by the Roman Catholic Church), has as its creed the Niceno- Constantinopolitan (without the later addition of the filioque, which, with the doctrine it represents, the church decisively rejects), baptizes infants with trine immersion, makes confirmation follow immediately upon baptism, administers the Communion in both kinds (using leavened bread) and to infants as well as adults, permits its secular clergy to marry before ordination and to keep their wives afterward, but not to marry a second time, selects its bishops from the monastic clergy only, recognizes the offices of bishop, priest, and deacon as the three necessary degrees of orders, venerates relics and icons, and has an elaborate ritual. 

EASTERNMOST:  Most eastern.  EAST INDIAN East" In"di*an (; see Indian).  Belonging to, or relating to, the East Indies.  -- n.  A native of, or a dweller in, the East Indies. 

EASTING:  The distance measured toward the east between two meridians drawn through the extremities of a course; distance of departure eastward made by a vessel.  EAST-INSULAR East`-in"su*lar, a.  Relating to the Eastern Islands; East Indian. [R.] Ogilvie.  EASTWARD; EASTWARDS East"ward, East"wards, adv.  Toward the east; in the direction of east from some point or place; as, New Haven lies eastward from New York. 

EASY:  Not straitened as to money matters; as, the market is easy; -- opposed to tight. Honors are easy (Card Playing), said when each side has an equal number of honors, in which case they are not counted as points.  Syn.  -- Quiet; comfortable; manageable; tranquil; calm; facile; unconcerned.  EASY-CHAIR Eas"y-chair`, n.  An armichair for ease or repose. "Laugh . . . in Rabelais' easy-chair." Pope.  EASY-GOING Eas"y-go`ing, a.  Moving easily; hence, mild-tempered; ease-loving; inactive. 

EATABLE:  Capable of being eaten; fit to be eaten; proper for food; esculent; edible.  -- n.  Something fit to be eaten. 

EATAGE:  Eatable growth of grass for horses and cattle, esp. that of aftermath. 

EATER:  One who, or that which, eats. 

EATH:  Easy or easily. [Obs.] "Eath to move with plaints." Fairfax. 

EATING:  Same as Cologne.  EAU DE VIE Eau` de vie". Etym: [F., water of life; eau (L. aqua) water + de of + vie (L. vita) life.]  French name for brandy. Cf. Aqua vitæ, under Aqua. Bescherelle.  EAU FORTE Eau` forte" (o` fort"). [F., strong water, nitric acid (which is used in etching plates).] (Art)  An etching or a print from an etched plate. 

EAVEDROP:  A drop from the eaves; eavesdrop. [R.] Tennyson. 

EAVES:  The edges or lower borders of the roof of a building, which overhang the walls, and cast off the water that falls on the roof.  2. Brow; ridge. [Obs.] "Eaves of the hill." Wyclif.  3. Eyelids or eyelashes. And closing eaves of wearied eyes. Tennyson. Eaves board (Arch.), an arris fillet, or a thick board with a feather edge, nailed across the rafters at the eaves of a building, to raise the lower course of slates a little, or to receive the lowest course of tiles; -- called also eaves catch and eaves lath.  -- Eaves channel, Eaves gutter, Eaves trough. Same as Gutter,  1.  -- Eaves molding (Arch.), a molding immediately below the eaves, acting as a cornice or part of a cornice.  -- Eaves swallow (Zoöl.). (a) The cliff swallow; -- so called from its habit of building retort-shaped nests of mud under the eaves of buildings. See Cliff swallow, under Cliff. (b) The European swallow. 

EAVESDROP:  To stand under the eaves, near a window or at the door, of a house, to listen and learn what is said within doors; hence, to listen secretly to what is said in private. To eavesdrop in disguises. Milton. 

EAVESDROP:  The water which falls in drops from the eaves of a house. 

EAVESDROPPER:  One who stands under the eaves, or near the window or door of a house, to listen; hence, a secret listener. 

EAVESDROPPING:  The habit of lurking about dwelling houses, and other places where persons meet fro private intercourse, secretly listening to what is said, and then tattling it abroad. The offense is indictable at common law. Wharton. 

EBB:  The European bunting. 

EBB:  To cause to flow back. [Obs.] Ford. 

EBB:  Receding; going out; falling; shallow; low. The water there is otherwise very low and ebb. Holland.  EBB TIDE Ebb" tide`.  The reflux of tide water; the retiring tide; -- opposed to flood tide. 

EBIONITE:  One of a sect of heretics, in the first centuries of the church, whose doctrine was a mixture of Judaism and Christianity. They denied the divinity of Christ, regarding him as an inspired messenger, and rejected much of the New Testament. 

EBIONITISM:  The system or doctrine of the Ebionites. 

EBLANIN:  See Pyroxanthin. 

EBLIS:  The prince of the evil spirits; Satan. [Written also Eblees.] 

EBON:  Ebony. [Poetic] "Framed of ebon and ivory." Sir W. Scott. 

EBONIST:  One who works in ebony. 

EBONITE:  A hard, black variety of vulcanite. It may be cut and polished, and is used for many small articles, as combs and buttons, and for insulating material in electric apparatus. 

EBONIZE:  To make black, or stain black, in imitation of ebony; as, to ebonize wood. 

EBONY:  A hard, heavy, and durable wood, which admits of a fine polish or gloss. The usual color is black, but it also occurs red or green.  Note: The finest black ebony is the heartwood of Diospyros reticulata, of the Mauritius. Other species of the same genus (D. Ebenum, Melanoxylon, etc.), furnish the ebony of the East Indies and Ceylon. The West Indian green ebony is from a leguminous tree (Brya Ebenus), and from the Excæcaria glandulosa. 

EBONY:  Made of ebony, or resembling ebony; black; as, an ebony countenance. This ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling. Poe. 

EBRACTEATE:  Without bracts. 

EBRACTEOLATE:  Without bracteoles, or little bracts; -- said of a pedicel or flower stalk. 

EBRAUKE:  Hebrew. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EBRIETY:  Drunkenness; intoxication by spirituous liquors; inebriety. "Ruinous ebriety." Cowper. 

EBRILLADE:  A bridle check; a jerk of one rein, given to a horse when he refuses to turn. 

EBRIOSITY:  Addiction to drink; habitual drunkenness. 

EBRIOUS:  Inclined to drink to excess; intoxicated; tipsy. [R.] M. Collins. 

EBULLIATE:  To boil or bubble up. [Obs.] Prynne.  EBULLIENCE; EBULLIENCY E*bul"lience, E*bul"lien*cy, n.  A boiling up or over; effervescence. Cudworth. 

EBULLIENT:  Boiling up or over; hence, manifesting exhilaration or excitement, as of feeling; effervescing. "Ebullient with subtlety." De Quincey. The ebullient enthusiasm of the French. Carlyle. 

EBULLIOSCOPE:  An instrument for observing the boiling point of liquids, especially for determining the alcoholic strength of a mixture by the temperature at which it boils. 

EBURIN:  A composition of dust of ivory or of bone with a cement; -- used for imitations of valuable stones and in making moldings, seals, etc. Knight. 

EBURNATION:  A condition of bone cartilage occurring in certain diseases of these tissues, in which they acquire an unnatural density, and come to resemble ivory. 

EBURNEAN:  Made of or relating to ivory. 

EBURNIFICATION:  The conversion of certain substances into others which have the appearance or characteristics of ivory. 

EBURNINE:  Of or pertaining to ivory. "[She] read from tablet eburnine." Sir W. Scott. 

ECARDINES:  An order of Brachiopoda; the Lyopomata. See Brachiopoda. 

ECARTE:  A game at cards, played usually by two persons, in which the players may discard any or all of the cards dealt and receive others from the pack. 

ECAUDATE:  Without a tail or spur.  2. (Zoöl.)  Tailless. 

ECBALLIUM:  A genus of cucurbitaceous plants consisting of the single species Ecballium agreste (or Elaterium), the squirting cucumber. Its fruit, when ripe, bursts and violently ejects its seeds, together with a mucilaginous juice, from which elaterium, a powerful cathartic medicine, is prepared. 

ECBASIS:  A figure in which the orator treats of things according to their events consequences. 

ECBATIC:  Denoting a mere result or consequence, as distinguished from telic, which denotes intention or purpose; thus the phrase so that it was fulfilled," is ecbatic; if rendered "in order that it might be." etc., is telic. 

ECBOLE:  A digression in which a person is introduced speaking his own words. 

ECBOLIC:  A drug, as ergot, which by exciting uterine contractions promotes the expulsion of the contents of the uterus. 

ECBOLINE:  An alkaloid constituting the active principle of ergot; -- so named from its power of producing abortion. 

ECCALEOBION:  A contrivance for hatching eggs by artificial heat.  ECCE HOMO Ec"ce ho"mo. Etym: [L., behold the man. See John xix. 5.] (Paint.)  A picture which represents the Savior as given up to the people by Pilate, and wearing a crown of thorns. 

ECCENTRIC:  Pertaining to an eccentric; as, the eccentric rod in a steam engine.  4. Not coincident as to motive or end. His own ends, which must needs be often eccentric to those of his master. Bacon.  5. Deviating from stated methods, usual practice, or established forms or laws; deviating from an appointed sphere or way; departing from the usual course; irregular; anomalous; odd; as, eccentric conduct. "This brave and eccentric young man." Macaulay. He shines eccentric, like a comet's blaze. Savage. Eccentric anomaly. (Astron.) See Anomaly.  -- Eccentric chuck (Mach.), a lathe chuck so constructed that the work held by it may be altered as to its center of motion, so as to produce combinations of eccentric combinations of eccentric circles.  -- Eccentric gear. (Mach.) (a) The whole apparatus, strap, and other parts, by which the motion of an eccentric is transmitted, as in the steam engine. (b) A cogwheel set to turn about an eccentric axis used to give variable rotation.  -- Eccentric hook or gab, a hook-shaped journal box on the end of an eccentric rod, opposite the strap.  -- Eccentric rod, the rod that connects as eccentric strap with any part to be acted upon by the eccentric.  -- Eccentric sheave, or Eccentric pulley, an eccentric.  -- Eccentric strap, the ring, operating as a journal box, that encircles and receives motion from an eccentric; -- called also eccentric hoop.  Syn.  -- Irregular; anomalous; singular; odd; peculiar; erratic; idiosyncratic; strange; whimsical. 

ECCENTRIC:  A disk or wheel so arranged upon a shaft that the center of the wheel and that of the shaft do not coincide. It is used for operating valves in steam engines, and for other purposes. The motion derived is precisely that of a crank having the same throw. Back eccentric, the eccentric that reverses or backs the valve gear and the engine.  -- Fore eccentric, the eccentric that imparts a forward motion to the valve gear and the engine. 

ECCENTRICAL:  See Eccentric. 

ECCENTRICALLY:  In an eccentric manner. Drove eccentrically here and there. Lew Wallace. 

ECCENTRICITY:  The ratio of the distance between the center and the focus of an ellipse or hyperbola to its semi-transverse axis.  3. (Astron.)  The ratio of the distance of the center of the orbit of a heavenly body from the center of the body round which it revolves to the semi-transverse axis of the orbit.  4. (Mech.)  The distance of the center of figure of a body, as of an eccentric, from an axis about which it turns; the throw. 

ECCHYMOSE:  To discolor by the production of an ecchymosis, or effusion of blood, beneath the skin; -- chiefly used in the passive form; as, the parts were much ecchymosed. 

ECCHYMOSIS:  A livid or black and blue spot, produced by the extravasation or effusion of blood into the areolar tissue from a contusion. 

ECCHYMOTIC:  Pertaining to ecchymosis. 

ECCLE:  The European green woodpecker; -- also called ecall, eaquall, yaffle. [Prov. Eng.] 

ECCLESIA:  The public legislative assembly of the Athenians.  2. (Eccl.)  A church, either as a body or as a building. 

ECCLESIAL:  Ecclesiastical. [Obs.] Milton. 

ECCLESIARCH:  An official of the Eastern Church, resembling a sacrist in the Western Church. 

ECCLESIASTES:  One of the canonical books of the Old Testament. 

ECCLESIASTIC:  Of or pertaining to the church. See Ecclesiastical. "Ecclesiastic government." Swift. 

ECCLESIASTIC:  A person in holy orders, or consecrated to the service of the church and the ministry of religion; a clergyman; a priest. From a humble ecclesiastic, he was subsequently preferred to the highest dignities of the church. Prescott. 

ECCLESIASTICAL:  Of or pertaining to the church; relating to the organization or government of the church; not secular; as, ecclesiastical affairs or history; ecclesiastical courts. Every circumstance of ecclesiastical order and discipline was an abomination. Cowper. Ecclesiastical commissioners for England, a permanent commission established by Parliament in 1836, to consider and report upon the affairs of the Established Church.  -- Ecclesiastical courts, courts for maintaining the discipline of the Established Church; -- called also Christian courts. [Eng.] -- Ecclesiastical law, a combination of civil and canon law as administered in ecclesiastical courts. [Eng.] -- Ecclesiastical modes (Mus.), the church modes, or the scales anciently used.  -- Ecclesiastical States, the territory formerly subject to the Pope of Rome as its temporal ruler; -- called also States of the Church. 

ECCLESIASTICALLY:  In an ecclesiastical manner; according ecclesiastical rules. 

ECCLESIASTICISM:  Strong attachment to ecclesiastical usages, forms, etc. 

ECCLESIASTICUS:  A book of the Apocrypha. 

ECCLESIOLOGICAL:  Belonging to ecclesiology. 

ECCLESIOLOGIST:  One versed in ecclesiology. 

ECCLESIOLOGY:  The science or theory of church building and decoration. 

ECCRITIC:  A remedy which promotes discharges, as an emetic, or a cathartic. 

ECDERON:  See Ecteron.  -- Ec`der*on"ic, a. 

ECDYSIS:  The act of shedding, or casting off, an outer cuticular layer, as in the case of serpents, lobsters, etc.; a coming out; as, the ecdysis of the pupa from its shell; exuviation. 

ECGONINE:  A colorless, crystalline, nitrogenous base, obtained by the decomposition of cocaine. 

ECHAUGUETTE:  A small chamber or place of protection for a sentinel, usually in the form of a projecting turret, or the like. See Castle. 

ECHE:  Each. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ECHELON:  An arrangement of a body of troops when its divisions are drawn up in parallel lines each to the right or the left of the one in advance of it, like the steps of a ladder in position for climbing. Also used adjectively; as, echelon distance. Upton (Tactics).  2. (Naval)  An arrangement of a fleet in a wedge or Encyc. Dict. Echelon lens (Optics), a large lens constructed in several parts or layers, extending in a succession of annular rings beyond the central lens; - - used in lighthouses. 

ECHELON:  To place in echelon; to station divisions of troops in echelon. 

ECHELON:  To take position in echelon. Change direction to the left, echelon by battalion from the right. Upton (Tactics). 

ECHIDNA:  A monster, half maid and half serpent.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of Monotremata found in Australia, Tasmania, and New Guinea. They are toothless and covered with spines; -- called also porcupine ant-eater, and Australian ant-eater. 

ECHIDNINE:  The clear, viscid fluid secreted by the poison glands of certain serpents; also, a nitrogenous base contained in this, and supposed to be the active poisonous principle of the virus. Brande & C.  ECHINATE; ECHINATED Ech"i*nate, Ech"i*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. echinatus. See Echinus.]  Set with prickles; prickly, like a hedgehog; bristled; as, an echinated pericarp. 

ECHINID:  Same as Echinoid. 

ECHINIDAN:  One the Echinoidea. 

ECHINITAL:  Of, or like, an echinite. 

ECHINITE:  A fossil echinoid. 

ECHINOCOCCUS:  A parasite of man and of many domestic and wild animals, forming compound cysts or tumors (called hydatid cysts) in various organs, but especially in the liver and lungs, which often cause death. It is the larval stage of the Tænia echinococcus, a small tapeworm peculiar to the dog. 

ECHINODERM:  One of the Echinodermata. 

ECHINODERMAL:  Relating or belonging to the echinoderms. 

ECHINODERMATA:  One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom. By many writers it was formerly included in the Radiata. [Written also Echinoderma.]  Note: The species usually have an exterior calcareous skeleton, or shell, made of many pieces, and often covered with spines, to which the name. They may be star-shaped, cylindrical, disk-shaped, or more or less spherical. The body consists of several similar parts (spheromeres) repeated symmetrically around a central axis, at one end of which the mouth is situated. They generally have suckers for locomotion. The group includes the following classes: Crinoidea, Asterioidea, Ophiuroidea, Echinoidea, and Holothurioidea. See these words in the Vocabulary, and also Ambulacrum. 

ECHINODERMATOUS:  Relating to Echinodermata; echinodermal. 

ECHINOID:  Of or pertaining to the Echinoidea.  -- n.  One of the Echinoidea. 

ECHINOIDEA:  The class Echinodermata which includes the sea urchins. They have a calcareous, usually more or less spheroidal or disk-shaped, composed of many united plates, and covered with movable spines. See Spatangoid, Clypeastroid. [Written also Echinidea, and Echinoida.] 

ECHINOZOA:  The Echinodermata. 

ECHINULATE:  Set with small spines or prickles. 

ECHINUS:  A hedgehog.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of echinoderms, including the common edible sea urchin of Europe.  3. (Arch.) (a) The rounded molding forming the bell of the capital of the Grecian Doric style, which is of a peculiar elastic curve. See Entablature. (b) The quarter-round molding (ovolo) of the Roman Doric style. See Illust. of Column (c) A name sometimes given to the egg and anchor or egg and dart molding, because that ornament is often identified with Roman Doric capital. The name probably alludes to the shape of the shell of the sea urchin. 

ECHIUROIDEA:  A division of Annelida which includes the genus Echiurus and allies. They are often classed among the Gephyrea, and called the armed Gephyreans. 

ECHO:  A nymph, the daughter of Air and Earth, who, for love of Narcissus, pined away until nothing was left of her but her voice. Compelled me to awake the courteous Echo To give me answer from her mossy couch. Milton. Echo organ (Mus.), a set organ pipes inclosed in a box so as to produce a soft, distant effect; -- generally superseded by the swell.  -- Echo stop (Mus.), a stop upon a harpsichord contrived for producing the soft effect of distant sound.  -- To applaud to the echo, to give loud and continuous applause. M. Arnold. I would applaud thee to the very echo, That should applaud again. Shak. 

ECHO:  To give an echo; to resound; to be sounded back; as, the hall echoed with acclamations. "Echoing noise." Blackmore. 

ECHOER:  One who, or that which, echoes. 

ECHOLESS:  Without echo or response. 

ECHOMETER:  A graduated scale for measuring the duration of sounds, and determining their different, and the relation of their intervals. J. J. Rousseau. 

ECHOMETRY:  Each one. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ECHOPATHY:  A morbid condition characterized by automatic and purposeless repetition of words or imitation of actions. 

ECHOSCOPE:  An instrument for intensifying sounds produced by percussion of the thorax. Knight. 

ECLAIR:  A kind of frosted cake, containing flavored cream. 

ECLAIRCISE:  To make clear; to clear up what is obscure or not understood; to explain. 

ECLAIRCISSEMENT:  The clearing up of anything which is obscure or not easily understood; an explanation. The eclaircissement ended in the discovery of the informer. Clarendon. 

ECLAMPSIA:  A fancied perception of flashes of light, a symptom of epilepsy; hence, epilepsy itself; convulsions.  Note: The term is generally restricted to a convulsive affection attending pregnancy and parturition, and to infantile convulsions. 

ECLAMPSY:  Same as Eclampsia. 

ECLECTIC:  One who follows an eclectic method. 

ECLECTICALLY:  In an eclectic manner; by an eclectic method. 

ECLECTICISM:  Theory or practice of an eclectic. 

ECLEGM:  A medicine made by mixing oils with sirups. John Quincy. 

ECLIPSE:  An interception or obscuration of the light of the sun, moon, or other luminous body, by the intervention of some other body, either between it and the eye, or between the luminous body and that illuminated by it. A lunar eclipse is caused by the moon passing through the earth's shadow; a solar eclipse, by the moon coming between the sun and the observer. A satellite is eclipsed by entering the shadow of its primary. The obscuration of a planet or star by the moon or a planet, though of the nature of an eclipse, is called an occultation. The eclipse of a small portion of the sun by Mercury or Venus is called a transit of the planet.  Note: In ancient times, eclipses were, and among unenlightened people they still are, superstitiously regarded as forerunners of evil fortune, a sentiment of which occasional use is made in literature. That fatal and perfidious bark, Built in the eclipse, and rigged with curses dark. Milton.  2. The loss, usually temporary or partial, of light, brilliancy, luster, honor, consciousness, etc.; obscuration; gloom; darkness. All the posterity of our fist parents suffered a perpetual eclipse of spiritual life. Sir W. Raleigh. As in the soft and sweet eclipse, When soul meets soul on lovers' lips. Shelley. Annular eclipse. (Astron.) See under Annular.  -- Cycle of eclipses. See under Cycle. 

ECLIPSE:  To suffer an eclipse. While the laboring moon Eclipses at their charms. Milton. 

ECLIPTIC:  A great circle of the celestial sphere, making an angle with the equinoctial of about 23º 28'. It is the apparent path of the sun, or the real path of the earth as seen from the sun.  2. (Geog.)  A great circle drawn on a terrestrial globe, making an angle of 23º 28' with the equator; -- used for illustrating and solving astronomical problems. 

ECLOGITE:  A rock consisting of granular red garnet, light green smaragdite, and common hornblende; -- so called in reference to its beauty. 

ECLOGUE:  A pastoral poem, in which shepherds are introduced conversing with each other; a bucolic; an idyl; as, the Ecloques of Virgil, from which the modern usage of the word has been established.  ECONOMIC; ECONOMICAL E`co*nom"ic, E`co*nom"ic*al, a. Etym: [F. économique, L. oeconomicus orderly, methodical, Gr. Economy.]  1. Pertaining to the household; domestic. "In this economical misfortune [of ill-assorted matrimony.]" Milton.  2. Relating to domestic economy, or to the management of household affairs. And doth employ her economic art And busy care, her household to preserve. Sir J. Davies.  3. Managing with frugality; guarding against waste or unnecessary expense; careful and frugal in management and in expenditure; -- said of character or habits. Just rich enough, with economic care, To save a pittance. Harte.  4. Managed with frugality; not marked with waste or extravagance; frugal; -- said of acts; saving; as, an economical use of money or of time.  5. Relating to the means of living, or the resources and wealth of a country; relating to political economy; as, economic purposes; economical truths. These matters economical and political. J. C. Shairp. There was no economical distress in England to prompt the enterprises of colonization. Palfrey. Economic questions, such as money, usury, taxes, lands, and the employment of the people. H. C. Baird.  6. Regulative; relating to the adaptation of means to an end. Grew.  Note: Economical is the usual form when meaning frugal, saving; economic is the form commonly used when meaning pertaining to the management of a household, or of public affairs. 

ECONOMICALLY:  With economy; with careful management; with prudence in expenditure. 

ECONOMIZATION:  The act or practice of using to the best effect. [R.] H. Spenser. 

ECONOMIZE:  To manage with economy; to use with prudence; to expend with frugality; as, to economize one's income. [Written also economise.] Expenses in the city were to be economized. Jowett (Thucyd. ). Calculating how to economize time. W. Irving. 

ECONOMIZE:  To be prudently sparing in expenditure; to be frugal and saving; as, to economize in order to grow rich. [Written also economise.] Milton. 

ECORCHE:  A manikin, or image, representing an animal, especially man, with the skin removed so that the muscles are exposed for purposes of study. 

ECOSSAISE:  A dancing tune in the Scotch style. 

ECOSTATE:  Having no ribs or nerves; -- said of a leaf. 

ECOUTE:  One of the small galleries run out in front of the glacis. They serve to annoy the enemy's miners. 

ECPHASIS:  An explicit declaration. 

ECPHONEMA:  A breaking out with some interjectional particle. 

ECPHONEME:  A mark (!) used to indicate an exclamation. G. Brown. 

ECPHONESIS:  An animated or passionate exclamation. The feelings by the ecphonesis are very various. Gibbs. 

ECPHRACTIC:  Serving to dissolve or attenuate viscid matter, and so to remove obstructions; deobstruent.  -- n.  An ecphractic medicine. Harvey. 

ECRASEMENT:  The operation performed with an écraseur. 

ECRASEUR:  An instrument intended to replace the knife in many operations, the parts operated on being severed by the crushing effect produced by the gradual tightening of a steel chain, so that hemorrhage rarely follows. 

ECRU:  Having the color or appearance of unbleached stuff, as silk, linen, or the like. 

ECSTASY:  A state which consists in total suspension of sensibility, of voluntary motion, and largely of mental power. The body is erect and inflexible; the pulsation and breathing are not affected. Mayne. 

ECSTASY:  To fill ecstasy, or with rapture or enthusiasm. [Obs.] The most ecstasied order of holy . . . spirits. Jer. Taylor. 

ECSTATIC:  An enthusiast. [R.] Gauden. 

ECSTATICALLY:  Rapturously; ravishingly.  ECT-; ECTO- Ect-, Ec"to-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form signifying without, outside, external. 

ECTAD:  Toward the outside or surface; -- opposed to entad. B. G. Wilder. 

ECTAL:  Pertaining to, or situated near, the surface; outer; -- opposed to ental. B. G. Wilder. 

ECTASIA:  A dilatation of a hollow organ or of a canal. 

ECTASIS:  The lengthening of a syllable from short to long. 

ECTENTAL:  Relating to, or connected with, the two primitive germ layers, the ectoderm and ectoderm; as, the "ectental line" or line of juncture of the two layers in the segmentation of the ovum. C. S. Minot. 

ECTERON:  The external layer of the skin and mucous membranes; epithelium; ecderon.  -- Ec`ter*on"ic, a. 

ECTETHMOID:  External to the ethmoid; prefrontal. 

ECTHLIPSIS:  The elision of a final m, with the preceding vowel, before a word beginning with a vowel. 

ECTHOREUM:  The slender, hollow thread of a nettling cell or cnida. See Nettling cell. [Written also ecthoræum.] 

ECTHYMA:  A cutaneous eruption, consisting of large, round pustules, upon an indurated and inflamed base. Dunglison.  ECTO- Ec"to-.  See Ect-. 

ECTOBRONCHIUM:  One of the dorsal branches of the main bronchi in the lungs of birds.  ECTOCUNERIFORM; ECTOCUNIFORM Ec`to*cu*ne"ri*form, Ec`to*cu"ni*form, n. Etym: [Ecto- + cuneiform, cuniform.] (Anat.)  One of the bones of the tarsus. See Cuneiform. 

ECTOCYST:  The outside covering of the Bryozoa. 

ECTODERM:  Of or relating to the ectoderm. 

ECTOLECITHAL:  Having the food yolk, at the commencement of segmentation, in a peripheral position, and the cleavage process confined to the center of the egg; as, ectolecithal ova. 

ECTOMERE:  The more transparent cells, which finally become external, in many segmenting ova, as those of mammals. 

ECTOPARASITE:  Any parasite which lives on the exterior of animals; -- opposed to endoparasite.  -- Ec`to*par`a*sit"ic, a. 

ECTOPIA:  A morbid displacement of parts, especially such as is congenial; as, ectopia of the heart, or of the bladder. 

ECTOPIC:  Out of place; congenitally displaced; as, an ectopic organ. 

ECTOPLASTIC:  Pertaining to, or composed of, ectoplasm. 

ECTOPROCTA:  An order of Bryozoa in which the anus lies outside the circle of tentacles. 

ECTOPY:  Same as Ectopia. 

ECTORGANISM:  An external parasitic organism. 

ECTOSARC:  The semisolid external layer of protoplasm in some unicellular organisms, as the amoeba; ectoplasm; exoplasm. 

ECTOSTEAL:  Of or pertaining to ectostosis; as, ectosteal ossification. 

ECTOSTOSIS:  A process of bone formation in which ossification takes place in the perichondrium and either surrounds or gradually replaces the cartilage. 

ECTOZOIC:  See Epizoic.  ECTOZOON; ECTOZOOEN Ec`to*zo"ön, n.; pl. Ectozoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  See Epizoön. 

ECTROPION:  An unnatural eversion of the eyelids. 

ECTROPIUM:  Same as Ectropion. 

ECTROTIC:  Having a tendency to prevent the development of anything, especially of a disease. 

ECTYPAL:  Copied, reproduced as a molding or cast, in contradistinction from the original model. 

ECTYPOGRAPHY:  A method of etching in which the design upon the plate is produced in relief.  ECUMENIC; ECUMENICAL Ec`u*men"ic, Ec`u*men"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. oecumenicus, Gr. Economy.]  General; universal; in ecclesiastical usage, that which concerns the whole church; as, an ecumenical council. [Written also .] Ecumenical Bishop, a title assumed by the popes.  -- Ecumenical council. See under Council. 

ECURIE:  A stable. 

ECZEMA:  An inflammatory disease of the skin, characterized by the presence of redness and itching, an eruption of small vesicles, and the discharge of a watery exudation, which often dries up, leaving the skin covered with crusts; -- called also tetter, milk crust, and salt rheum. 

ECZEMATOUS:  Pertaining to eczema; having the characteristic of eczema.  -ED -ed.  The termination of the past participle of regular, or weak, verbs; also, of analogous participial adjectives from nouns; as, pigmented; talented. 

EDACIOUS:  Given to eating; voracious; devouring. Swallowed in the depths of edacious Time. Carlyle. -- E*da"cious*ly, adv.  -- E*da"cious*ness, n. 

EDACITY:  Greediness; voracity; ravenousness; rapacity. Bacon.  EDAM; EDAM CHEESE E"dam, n., or Edam cheese.  A Dutch pressed cheese of yellow color and fine flavor, made in balls weighing three or four pounds, and usually colored crimson outside; -- so called from the village of Edam, near Amsterdam. Also, cheese of the same type, wherever made. 

EDDA:  The religious or mythological book of the old Scandinavian tribes of German origin, containing two collections of Sagas (legends, myths) of the old northern gods and heroes.  Note: There are two Eddas. The older, consisting of 39 poems, was reduced to writing from oral tradition in Iceland between 1050 and 1133. The younger or prose Edda, called also the Edda of Snorri, is the work of several writers, though usually ascribed to Snorri Sturleson, who was born in 1178.  EDDAIC; EDDIC Ed*da"ic, Ed"dic, a.  Relating to the Eddas; resembling the Eddas. 

EDDER:  An adder or serpent. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

EDDER:  Flexible wood worked into the top of hedge stakes, to bind them together. [Obs.] Tusser. 

EDDER:  To bind the top interweaving edder; as, to edder a hedge. [Obs.] 

EDDISH:  Aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish. [Eng.] 

EDDOES:  The tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. See Taro. 

EDDY:  To move as an eddy, or as in an eddy; to move in a circle. Eddying round and round they sink. Wordsworth. 

EDDY:  To collect as into an eddy. [R.] The circling mountains eddy in From the bare wild the dissipated storm. Thomson.  EDDY CURRENT Ed"dy cur"rent. (Elec.)  An induced electric current circulating wholly within a mass of metal; -- called also Foucault current.  EDDY KITE Ed"dy kite. Called also Malay kite. [After William A. Eddy, American kite expert.]  A quadrilateral, tailless kite, with convex surfaces exposed to the wind. This kite was extensively used by Eddy in his famous meteorological experiments. It is now generally superseded by the box kite. 

EDELWEISS:  A little, perennial, white, woolly plant (Leontopodium alpinum), growing at high elevations in the Alps. 

EDEMA:  Same as oedema.  EDEMATOUS; EDEMATOSE E*de"ma*tous, or E*de"ma*tose`, a. (Med.)  Same as oedematous. 

EDEN:  The garden where Adam and Eve first dwelt; hence, a delightful region or residence. 

EDENIC:  Of or pertaining to Eden; paradisaic. "Edenic joys." Mrs. Browning. 

EDENITE:  A variety of amphibole. See Amphibole. 

EDENIZED:  Admitted to a state of paradisaic happiness. [R.] Davies (Wit's Pilgr. ). 

EDENTAL:  See Edentate, a.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  One of the Edentata. 

EDENTALOUS:  See Edentate, a. 

EDENTATA:  An order of mammals including the armadillos, sloths, and anteaters; -- called also Bruta. The incisor teeth are rarely developed, and in some groups all the teeth are lacking. 

EDENTATE:  Belonging to the Edentata. 

EDENTATE:  One of the Edentata. 

EDENTATED:  Same as Edentate, a. 

EDENTATION:  A depriving of teeth. [R.] Cockeram. 

EDENTULOUS:  Toothless. 

EDGEBONE:  Same as Aitchbone. 

EDGELESS:  Without an edge; not sharp; blunt; obtuse; as, an edgeless sword or weapon. 

EDGELONG:  In the direction of the edge. [Obs.] Three hundred thousand pieces have you stuck Edgelong into the ground. B. Jonson. 

EDGESHOT:  Having an edge planed, -- said of a board. Knight.  EDGEWAYS; EDGEWISE Edge"ways, Edge"wise, adv.  With the edge towards anything; in the direction of the edge. Glad to get in a word, as they say, edgeways. Sir W. Scott. 

EDGINGLY:  Gradually; gingerly. [R.] 

EDGY:  Having some of the forms, such as drapery or the like, too sharply defined. "An edgy style of sculpture." Hazlitt. 

EDH:  The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter edh, capital form th in a similar word: oedher, other, dôedh, doth." March. 

EDIBILITY:  Suitableness for being eaten; edibleness. 

EDIBLE:  Fit to be eaten as food; eatable; esculent; as, edible fishes. Bacon.  -- n.  Anything edible. Edible bird's nest. See Bird's nest,  2.  -- Edible crab (Zoöl.), any species of crab used as food, esp. the American blue crab (Callinectes hastatus). See Crab.  -- Edible frog (Zoöl.), the common European frog (Rana esculenta), used as food.  -- Edible snail (Zoöl.), any snail used as food, esp. Helix pomatia and H. aspersa of Europe. 

EDIBLENESS:  Suitableness for being eaten. 

EDICT:  A public command or ordinance by the sovereign power; the proclamation of a law made by an absolute authority, as if by the very act of announcement; a decree; as, the edicts of the Roman emperors; the edicts of the French monarch. It stands as an edict in destiny. Shak. Edict of Nantes (French Hist.), an edict issued by Henry IV. (A. D. 1598), giving toleration to Protestants. Its revocation by Louis XIV. (A. D. 1685) was followed by terrible persecutions and the expatriation of thousands of French Protestants.  Syn.  -- Decree; proclamation; law; ordinance; statute; rule; order; manifesti; command. See Law. 

EDICTAL:  Relating to, or consisting of, edicts; as, the Roman edictal law. 

EDIFICANT:  Building; constructing. [R.] Dugard. 

EDIFICATORY:  Tending to edification. Bp. Hall. 

EDIFICE:  A building; a structure; an architectural fabric; -- chiefly applied to elegant houses, and other large buildings; as, a palace, a church, a statehouse. 

EDIFICIAL:  Pertaining to an edifice; structural. 

EDIFY:  To improve. [R.] Swift. 

EDIFYING:  Instructing; improving; as, an edifying conversation.  -- Ed"i*fy`ing*ly, adv.  -- Ed"i*fy`ing*ness, n. 

EDILE:  See Ædile. 

EDILESHIP:  The office of ædile. T. Arnold. 

EDINGTONITE:  A grayish white zeolitic mineral, in tetragonal crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta. 

EDIT:  To superintend the publication of; to revise and prepare for publication; to select, correct, arrange, etc., the matter of, for publication; as, to edit a newspaper. Philosophical treatises which have never been edited. Enfield. 

EDITION:  See Luxe. 

EDITIONER:  An editor. [Obs.] 

EDITOR:  One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends, revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., for publication. 

EDITORIAL:  Of or pertaining to an editor; written or sanctioned by an editor; as, editorial labors; editorial remarks. editorial content 

EDITORIAL:  A leading article in a newspaper or magazine; an editorial article; an article published as an expression of the views of the editor. 

EDITORIALLY:  In the manner or character of an editor or of an editorial article. 

EDITORSHIP:  The office or charge of an editor; care and superintendence of a publication. 

EDITRESS:  A female editor. 

EDITUATE:  To guard as a churchwarden does. [Obs.] J. Gregory. 

EDOMITE:  One of the descendants of Esau or Edom, the brother of Jacob; an Idumean. 

EDRIOPHTHALMA:  A group of Crustacea in which the eyes are without stalks; the Arthrostraca. [Written also Edriophthalmata.] 

EDRIOPHTHALMOUS:  Pertaining to the Edriophthalma. 

EDUCABILITY:  Capability of being educated. 

EDUCABLE:  Capable of being educated. "Men are educable." M. Arnold. 

EDUCATE:  To bring as, to educate a child; to educate the eye or the taste.  Syn.  -- To develop; instruct; teach; inform; enlighten; edify; bring up; train; breed; rear; discipline; indoctrinate. 

EDUCATED:  Formed or developed by education; as, an educated man. 

EDUCATION:  The act or process of educating; the result of educating, as determined by the knowledge skill, or discipline of character, acquired; also, the act or process of training by a prescribed or customary course of study or discipline; as, an education for the bar or the pulpit; he has finished his education. To prepare us for complete living is the function which education has to discharge. H. Spenser.  Syn.  -- Education, Instruction, Teaching, Training, Breeding. Education, properly a drawing forth, implies not so much the communication of knowledge as the discipline of the intellect, the establishment of the principles, and the regulation of the heart. Instruction is that part of education which furnishes the mind with knowledge. Teaching is the same, being simply more familiar. It is also applied to practice; as, teaching to speak a language; teaching a dog to do tricks. Training is a department of education in which the chief element is exercise or practice for the purpose of imparting facility in any physical or mental operation. Breeding commonly relates to the manners and outward conduct. 

EDUCATIONAL:  Of or pertaining to education. "His educational establishment." J. H. Newman. 

EDUCATIONIST:  One who is versed in the theories of, or who advocates and promotes, education. 

EDUCATIVE:  Tending to educate; that gives education; as, an educative process; an educative experience. 

EDUCATOR:  One who educates; a teacher. 

EDUCE:  To bring or draw out; to cause to appear; to produce against counter agency or influence; to extract; to evolve; as, to educe a form from matter. The eternal art educing good from ill. Pope. They want to educe and cultivate what is best and noblest in themselves. M. Arnold. 

EDUCIBLE:  Capable of being educed. 

EDUCT:  That which is educed, as by analysis. Sir W. Hamilton. 

EDUCTION:  The act of drawing out or bringing into view. Eduction pipe, and Eduction port. See Exhaust pipe and Exhaust port, under Exhaust, a. 

EDUCTIVE:  Tending to draw out; extractive. 

EDUCTOR:  One who, or that which, brings forth, elicits, or extracts. Stimulus must be called an eductor of vital ether. E. Darwin. 

EDULCORANT:  Having a tendency to purify or to sweeten by removing or correcting acidity and acrimony. 

EDULCORANT:  An edulcorant remedy. 

EDULCORATE:  To free from acids, salts, or other soluble substances, by washing; to purify. [R.] 

EDULCORATION:  The act of freeing from acids or any soluble substances, by affusions of water. [R.] Ure. 

EDULCORATIVE:  Tending to 

EDULCORATOR:  A contrivance used to supply small quantities of sweetened liquid, water, etc., to any mixture, or to test tubes, etc.; a dropping bottle. 

EDULIOUS:  Edible. [Obs.] "Edulious pulses." Sir T. Browne.  -EE -ee. Etym: [Formed on the F. p. p. ending -é, masc.]  A suffix used, chiefly in law terms, in a passive signification, to indicate the direct or indirect object of an action, or the one to whom an act is done or on whom a right is conferred; as in assignee, donee, alienee, grantee, etc. It is correlative to -or, the agent or doer.  EEK; EEKE Eek, Eeke, v. t.  See Eke. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EEL:  An elongated fish of many genera and species. The common eels of Europe and America belong to the genus Anguilla. The electrical eel is a species of Gymnotus. The so called vinegar eel is a minute nematode worm. See Conger eel, Electric eel, and Gymnotus. 

EELBUCK:  An eelpot or eel basket. 

EELFARE:  A brood of eels. [Prov. Eng.] 

EELGRASS:  A plant (Zostera marina), with very long and narrow leaves, growing abundantly in shallow bays along the North Atlantic coast.  EEL-MOTHER Eel"-moth`er, n. (Zoöl.)  The eelpout. 

EELPOT:  A boxlike structure with funnel-shaped traps for catching eels; an eelbuck. 

EELSPEAR:  A spear with barbed forks for spearing eels.  E'EN E'en, adv.  A contraction for even. See Even. I have e'en done with you. L'Estrange. 

EEN:  The old plural of Eye. And eke with fatness swollen were his een. Spenser.  E'ER E'er, adv.  A contraction for ever. See Ever.  EERIE; EERY Ee"rie, Ee"ry, a. Etym: [Scotch, fr. AS. earh timid.]  1. Serving to inspire fear, esp. a dread of seeing ghosts; wild; weird; as, eerie stories. She whose elfin prancer springs By night to eery warblings. Tennyson.  2. Affected with fear; affrighted. Burns. 

EERILY:  In a strange, unearthly way. 

EERISOME:  Causing fear; eerie. [Scot.] 

EET:  of Eat. Chaucer. 

EFFABLE:  Capable of being uttered or explained; utterable. Barrow. 

EFFACEABLE:  Capable of being effaced. 

EFFACEMENT:  The act if effacing; also, the result of the act. 

EFFASCINATE:  To charm; to bewitch. [Obs.] Heywood. 

EFFASCINATION:  A charming; state of being bewitched or deluded. [Obs.] 

EFFECT:  Goods; movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to embrace real as well as personal property; as, the people escaped from the town with their effects. For effect, for an exaggerated impression or excitement.  -- In effect, in fact; in substance. See 8, above.  -- Of no effect, Of none effect, To no effect, or Without effect, destitute of results, validity, force, and the like; vain; fruitless. "Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition." Mark vii. 13. "All my study be to no effect." Shak.  -- To give effect to, to make valid; to carry out in practice; to push to its results.  -- To take effect, to become operative, to accomplish aims. Shak.  Syn.  -- Effect, Consequence, Result. These words indicate things which arise out of some antecedent, or follow as a consequent. Effect, which may be regarded as the generic term, denotes that which springs directly from something which can properly be termed a cause. A consequence is more remote, not being strictly caused, nor yet a mere sequence, but following out of and following indirectly, or in the train of events, something on which it truly depends. A result is still more remote and variable, like the rebound of an elastic body which falls in very different directions. We may foresee the effects of a measure, may conjecture its consequences, but can rarely discover its final results. Resolving all events, with their effects And manifold results, into the will And arbitration wise of the Supreme. Cowper. Shun the bitter consequence, for know, The day thou eatest thereof, . . . thou shalt die. Milton. 

EFFECTER:  One who effects. 

EFFECTIBLE:  Capable of being done or achieved; practicable; feasible. Sir T. Browne. 

EFFECTION:  Creation; a doing. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

EFFECTIVE:  Having the power to produce an effect or effects; producing a decided or decisive effect; efficient; serviceable; operative; as, an effective force, remedy, speech; the effective men in a regiment. They are not effective of anything, nor leave no work behind them. Bacon. Whosoever is an effective, real cause of doing his heighbor wrong, is criminal. Jer. Taylor.  Syn.  -- Efficient; forcible; active; powerful; energetic; competent. See Effectual. 

EFFECTIVE:  Specie or coin, as distinguished from paper currency; -- a term used in many parts of Europe. Simmonds. 

EFFECTIVELY:  With effect; powerfully; completely; thoroughly. 

EFFECTIVENESS:  The quality of being effective. 

EFFECTLESS:  Without effect or advantage; useless; bootless. Shak.  -- Ef*fect"less*ly, adv. 

EFFECTOR:  An effecter. Derham. 

EFFECTUAL:  Producing, or having adequate power or force to produce, an intended effect; adequate; efficient; operative; decisive. Shak. Effectual steps for the suppression of the rebellion. Macaulay. Effectual calling (Theol.), a doctrine concerning the work of the Holy Spirit in producing conviction of sin and acceptance of salvation by Christ, -- one of the five points of Calvinism. See Calvinism.  Syn.  -- Effectual, Efficacious, Effective. An efficacious remedy is had recourse to, and proves effective if it does decided good, effectual if it does all the good desired. C. J. Smith. 

EFFECTUALNESS:  The quality of being effectual. 

EFFECTUATE:  To bring to pass; to effect; to achieve; to accomplish; to fulfill. A fit instrument to effectuate his desire. Sir P. Sidney. In order to effectuate the thorough reform. G. T. Curtis. 

EFFECTUATION:  Act of effectuating.  EFFECTUOSE; EFFECTUOUS Ef*fec"tu*ose`, Ef*fec"tu*ous, a.  Effective. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

EFFECTUOUSLY:  Effectively. [Obs.] 

EFFEMINACY:  Characteristic quality of a woman, such as softness, luxuriousness, delicacy, or weakness, which is unbecoming a man; womanish delicacy or softness; -- used reproachfully of men. Milton. 

EFFEMINATE:  To make womanish; to make soft and delicate; to weaken. It will not corrupt or effeminate children's minds. Locke. 

EFFEMINATE:  To grow womanish or weak. In a slothful peace both courage will effeminate and manners corrupt. Pope. 

EFFEMINATENESS:  The state of being effeminate; unmanly softness. Fuller. 

EFFEMINATION:  Effeminacy; womanishness. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EFFEMINIZE:  To make effeminate. [Obs.] 

EFFENDI:  Master; sir; -- a title of a Turkish state official and man of learning, especially one learned in the law. 

EFFERENT:  An efferent duct or stream. 

EFFEROUS:  Like a wild beast; fierce. [Obs.] 

EFFERVESCE:  A kind of natural ebullition; that commotion of a fluid which takes place when some part of the mass flies off in a gaseous form, producing innumerable small bubbles; as, the effervescence of a carbonate with citric acid. 

EFFERVESCENT:  Gently boiling or bubbling, by means of the disengagement of gas 

EFFERVESCIBLE:  Capable of effervescing. 

EFFERVESCIVE:  Tending to produce effervescence. "An effervescive force." Hickok. 

EFFET:  The common newt; -- called also asker, eft, evat, and ewt. 

EFFETE:  No longer capable of producing young, as an animal, or fruit, as the earth; hence, worn out with age; exhausted of energy; incapable of efficient action; no longer productive; barren; sterile. Effete results from virile efforts. Mrs. Browning If they find the old governments effete, worn out, . . . they may seek new ones. Burke. 

EFFICACIOUS:  Possessing the quality of being effective; productive of, or powerful to produce, the effect intended; as, an efficacious law.  Syn.  -- See Effectual.  -- Ef`fi*ca"cious*ly, adv.  -- Ef`fi*ca"cious*ness, n. 

EFFICACITY:  Efficacy. [R.] J. Fryth. 

EFFICACY:  Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an agent or force; production of the effect intended; as, the efficacy of medicine in counteracting disease; the efficacy of prayer. "Of noxious efficacy." Milton.  Syn.  -- Virtue; force; energy; potency; efficiency.  EFFICIENCE; EFFICIENCY Ef*fi"cience, Ef*fi"cien*cy, n. Etym: [L. efficientia.]  1. The quality of being efficient or producing an effect or effects; efficient power; effectual agency. The manner of this divine efficiency being far above us. Hooker.  2. (Mech.)  The ratio of useful work to energy expended. Rankine. Efficiency of a heat engine, the ratio of the work done an engine, to the work due to the heat supplied to it. 

EFFICIENT:  Causing effects; producing results; that makes the effect to be what it is; actively operative; not inactive, slack, or incapable; characterized by energetic and useful activity; as, an efficient officer, power. The efficient cause is the working cause. Wilson.  Syn.  -- Effective; effectual; competent; able; capable; material; potent. 

EFFICIENT:  An efficient cause; a prime mover. God . . . moveth mere natural agents as an efficient only. Hooker. 

EFFICIENTLY:  With effect; effectively. 

EFFIERCE:  To make fierce. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EFFIGIAL:  Relating to an effigy. 

EFFIGIATE:  To form as an effigy; hence, to fashion; to adapt. [He must] effigiate and conform himself to those circumstances. Jer. Taylor. 

EFFIGIATION:  The act of forming in resemblance; an effigy. Fuller. 

EFFIGIES:  See Effigy. Dryden. 

EFFIGY:  The image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether a full figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied to sculptured likenesses, as those on monuments, or to those of the heads of princes on coins and medals, sometimes applied to portraits. To burn, or To hang, in effigy, to burn or to hang an image or picture of a person, as a token of public odium. 

EFFLAGITATE:  To ask urgently. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EFFLATE:  To fill with breath; to puff up. Sir T. Herbert. 

EFFLATION:  The act of filling with wind; a breathing or puffing out; a puff, as of wind. A soft efflation of celestial fire. Parnell. 

EFFLORESCE:  To change on the surface, or throughout, to a whitish, mealy, or crystalline powder, from a gradual decomposition, esp. from the loss of water, on simple exposure to the air; as, Glauber's salts, and many others, effloresce.  3. To become covered with a whitish crust or light crystallization, from a slow chemical change between some of the ingredients of the matter covered and an acid proceeding commonly from an external source; as, the walls of limestone caverns sometimes effloresce with nitrate of calcium in consequence of the action in consequence of nitric acid formed in the atmosphere. 

EFFLORESCENCE:  Flowering, or state of flowering; the blooming of flowers; blowth.  2. (Med.)  A redness of the skin; eruption, as in rash, measles, smallpox, scarlatina, etc.  3. (Chem.) (a) The formation of the whitish powder or crust on the surface of efflorescing bodies, as salts, etc. (b) The powder or crust thus formed. 

EFFLORESCENCY:  The state or quality of being efflorescent; efflorescence. 

EFFLOWER:  To remove the epidermis of (a skin) with a concave knife, blunt in its middle part, -- as in making chamois leather. 

EFFLUENCY:  Effluence. 

EFFLUENT:  Flowing out; as, effluent beams. Parnell. 

EFFLUENT:  A stream that flows out of another stream or lake. 

EFFLUVIABLE:  Capable of being given off as an effluvium. "Effluviable matter." Boyle. 

EFFLUVIAL:  Belonging to effluvia. 

EFFLUVIATE:  To give forth effluvium. [R.] "An effluviating power." Boyle. 

EFFLUVIUM:  Subtile or invisible emanation; exhalation perceived by the sense of smell; especially, noisome or noxious exhalation; as, the effluvium from diseased or putrefying bodies, or from ill drainage. 

EFFLUX:  To run out; to flow forth; to pass away. [Obs.] Boyle. 

EFFODIENT:  Digging up. 

EFFORCE:  To force; to constrain; to compel to yield. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EFFORM:  To form; to shape. [Obs.] Efforming their words within their lips. Jer. Taylor. 

EFFORMATION:  The act of giving shape or form. [Obs.] Ray. 

EFFORT:  A force acting on a body in the direction of its motion. Rankine.  Syn.  -- Endeavor; exertion; struggle; strain; straining; attempt; trial; essay. See Attempt. 

EFFORT:  To stimulate. [Obs.] "He efforted his spirits." Fuller. 

EFFORTLESS:  Making no effort. Southey. 

EFFOSSION:  A digging out or up. [R.] "The effossion of coins." Arbuthnot. 

EFFRANCHISE:  To enfranchise. 

EFFRAY:  To frighten; to scare. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EFFRAYABLE:  Frightful. [Obs.] Harvey. 

EFFRENATION:  Unbridled license; unruliness. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EFFRONT:  To give assurance to. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EFFRONTERY:  Impudence or boldness in confronting or in transgressing the bounds of duty or decorum; insulting presumptuousness; shameless boldness; barefaced assurance. Corruption lost nothing of its effrontery. Bancroft.  Syn.  -- Impudence; sauciness. See Impudence. 

EFFRONTIT:  Marked by impudence. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

EFFRONTUOUSLY:  Impudently. [Obs.] R. North. 

EFFULGE:  To cause to shine with abundance of light; to radiate; to beam. [R.] His eyes effulging a peculiar fire. Thomson. 

EFFULGE:  To shine forth; to beam. 

EFFULGENCE:  The state of being effulgent; extreme brilliancy; a flood of light; great luster or brightness; splendor. The effulgence of his glory abides. Milton. The bright and the balmy effulgence of morn. Beattie. 

EFFULGENT:  Diffusing a flood of light; shining; luminous; beaming; bright; splendid. "Effulgent rays of light." Cowper. 

EFFULGENTLY:  In an effulgent manner. 

EFFUMABILITY:  The capability of flying off in fumes or vapor. [Obs.] Boyle. 

EFFUME:  To breathe or puff out. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

EFFUND:  To pour out. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

EFFUSE:  Spreading loosely, especially on one side; as, an effuse inflorescence. Loudon.  4. (Zoöl.)  Having the lips, or edges, of the aperture abruptly spreading; -- said of certain shells. 

EFFUSE:  Effusion; loss. "Much effuse of blood." Shak. 

EFFUSE:  To pour out like a stream or freely; to cause to exude; to shed. [R.] With gushing blood effused. Milton. 

EFFUSE:  To emanate; to issue. Thomson. 

EFFUSIVE:  Pouring out; pouring forth freely. "Washed with the effusive wave." Pope. Effusive rocks (Geol.), volcanic rocks, in distinction from so-called intrusive, or plutonic, rocks.  -- Ef*fu"sive*ly, adv.  -- Ef*fu"sive*ness, n. 

EFREET:  See Afrit. 

EFT:  Again; afterwards; soon; quickly. [Obs.] I wold never eft comen into the snare. Spenser.  EFTSOON; EFTSOONS Eft*soon", Eft*soons", adv. Etym: [OE. eftsone, eftsones; AS. eft + s soon. See Eft, and Soon.]  Again; anew; a second time; at once; speedily. [Archaic] And, if he fall from his capel [horse] eftsone. Chaucer. The champion stout eftsoons dismounted. Spenser. 

EGAD:  An exclamation expressing exultation or surprise, etc. 

EGAL:  Equal; impartial. [Obs.] Shak. 

EGALITY:  Equality. Chaucer. Tennyson. 

EGEAN:  See Ægean. 

EGENCE:  The state of needing, or of suffering a natural want. [R.] J. Grote.  EGER; EGRE E"ger, E"gre, a. Etym: [See Eager.]  Sharp; bitter; acid; sour. [Obs.] The egre words of thy friend. Chaucer. 

EGER:  An impetuous flood; a bore. See Eagre. 

EGERMINATE:  To germinate. [Obs.] 

EGEST:  To cast or throw out; to void, as excrement; to excrete, as the indigestible matter of the food; in an extended sense, to excrete by the lungs, skin, or kidneys. 

EGESTA:  That which is egested or thrown off from the body by the various excretory channels; excrements; -- opposed to ingesta. 

EGESTION:  Act or process of egesting; a voiding. Sir M. Hale. 

EGG:  The oval or roundish body laid by domestic poultry and other birds, tortoises, etc. It consists of a yolk, usually surrounded by the "white" or albumen, and inclosed in a shell or strong membrane.  2. (Biol.)  A simple cell, from the development of which the young of animals are formed; ovum; germ cell.  3. Anything resembling an egg in form.  Note: Egg is used adjectively, or as the first part of self- explaining compounds; as, egg beater or egg-beater, egg case, egg ladle, egg-shaped, etc. Egg and anchor (Arch.), an egg-shaped ornament, alternating with another in the form of a dart, used to enrich the ovolo; -- called also egg and dart, and egg and tongue. See Anchor, n., 5. Ogilvie.  -- Egg cleavage (Biol.), a process of cleavage or segmentation, by which the egg undergoes endogenous division with formation of a mass of nearly similar cells, from the growth and differentiation of which the new organism is ultimately formed. See Segmentation of the ovum, under Segmentation.  -- Egg development (Biol.), the process of the development of an egg, by which the embryo is formed.  -- Egg mite (Zoöl.), any mite which devours the eggs of insects, as Nothrus ovivorus, which destroys those of the canker worm.  -- Egg parasite (Zoöl.), any small hymenopterous insect, which, in the larval stage, lives within the eggs of other insects. Many genera and species are known. 

EGG:  To urge on; to instigate; to incite Adam and Eve he egged to ill. Piers Plowman. [She] did egg him on to tell How fair she was. Warner. 

EGGAR:  Any bombycid moth of the genera Eriogaster and Lasiocampa; as, the oak eggar (L. roboris) of Europe.  EGG-BIRD Egg"-bird`, n. (Zoöl.)  A species of tern, esp. the sooty tern (Sterna fuliginosa) of the West Indies. In the Bahama Islands the name is applied to the tropic bird, Phaëthon flavirostris.  EGG-CUP Egg"-cup`, n.  A cup used for holding an egg, at table. 

EGGEMENT:  Instigation; incitement. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EGGER:  One who gathers eggs; an eggler. 

EGGER:  One who eggs or incites. 

EGGERY:  A place where eggs are deposited (as by sea birds) or kept; a nest of eggs. [R.]  EGG-GLASS Egg"-glass`, n.  A small sandglass, running about three minutes, for marking time in boiling eggs; also, a small glass for holding an egg, at table. 

EGGHOT:  A kind of posset made of eggs, brandy, sugar, and ale. Lamb. 

EGGLER:  One who gathers, or deals in, eggs. 

EGGNOG:  A drink consisting of eggs beaten up with sugar, milk, and (usually) wine or spirits. 

EGGPLANT:  A plant (Solanum Melongena), of East Indian origin, allied to the tomato, and bearing a large, smooth, edible fruit, shaped somewhat like an egg; mad-apple.  EGG-SHAPED Egg"-shaped`, a.  Resembling an egg in form; ovoid. 

EGGSHELL:  A smooth, white, marine, gastropod shell of the genus Ovulum, resembling an egg in form.  EGG SQUASH Egg" squash`.  A variety of squash with small egg-shaped fruit. 

EGHEN:  Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EGILOPICAL:  Pertaining to, of the nature of, or affected with, an ægilops, or tumor in the corner of the eye. 

EGILOPS:  See Ægilops.  EGLANDULOSE; EGLANDULOUS E*glan"du*lose`, E*glan"du*lous, a. Etym: [Pref. e- + glandulose, glandulosus.]  Destitute of glands. 

EGLATERE:  Eglantine. [Obs. or R.] [Written also eglantere.] Tennyson. 

EGLING:  The European perch when two years old. [Prov. Eng.] 

EGLOMERATE:  To unwind, as a thread from a ball. [R.] 

EGO:  The conscious and permanent subject of all psychical experiences, whether held to be directly known or the product of reflective thought; -- opposed to non-ego. 

EGOICAL:  Pertaining to egoism. [R.] 

EGOISM:  The doctrine of certain extreme adherents or disciples of Descartes and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which finds all the elements of knowledge in the ego and the relations which it implies or provides for.  2. Excessive love and thought of self; the habit of regarding one's self as the center of every interest; selfishness; -- opposed to altruism. 

EGOIST:  A believer in egoism.  EGOISTIC; EGOISTICAL E`go*is"tic, E`go*is"tic*al, a.  Pertaining to egoism; imbued with egoism or excessive thoughts of self; self-loving. Ill-natured feeling, or egoistic pleasure in making men miserable. G. Eliot. 

EGOISTICALLY:  In an egoistic manner. 

EGOITY:  Personality. [R.] Swift. 

EGOMISM:  Egoism. [R.] A. Baxter. 

EGOPHONIC:  Belonging to, or resembling, egophony. 

EGOPHONY:  The sound of a patient's voice so modified as to resemble the bleating of a goat, heard on applying the ear to the chest in certain diseases within its cavity, as in pleurisy with effusion. 

EGOTHEISM:  The deification of self. [R.] 

EGOTISM:  The practice of too frequently using the word I; hence, a speaking or writing overmuch of one's self; self-exaltation; self- praise; the act or practice of magnifying one's self or parading one's own doings. The word is also used in the sense of egoism. His excessive egotism, which filled all objects with himself. Hazlitt.  Syn.  -- Egotism, Self-conceit, Vanity, Egoism. Self-conceit is an overweening opinion of one's talents, capacity, attractions, etc.; egotism is the acting out of self-conceit, or self-importance, in words and exterior conduct; vanity is inflation of mind arising from the idea of being thought highly of by others. It shows itself by its eagerness to catch the notice of others. Egoism is a state in which the feelings are concentrated on one's self. Its expression is egotism. 

EGOTIST:  One addicted to egotism; one who speaks much of himself or magnifies his own achievements or affairs.  EGOTISTIC; EGOTISTICAL E`go*tis"tic, E`go*tis"tic*al, a.  Addicted to, or manifesting, egotism.  Syn.  -- Conceited; vain; self-important; opinionated. 

EGOTISTICALLY:  With egotism. 

EGOTIZE:  To talk or write as an egotist. Cowper. 

EGRANULOSE:  Having no granules, as chlorophyll in certain conditions. R. Brown. 

EGRE:  See Eager, and Eagre. [Obs.] 

EGREGIOUS:  Surpassing; extraordinary; distinguished (in a bad sense); -- formerly used with words importing a good quality, but now joined with words having a bad sense; as, an egregious rascal; an egregious ass; an egregious mistake. The egregious impudence of this fellow. Bp. Hall. His [Wyclif's] egregious labors are not to be neglected. Milton. 

EGREGIOUSLY:  Greatly; enormously; shamefully; as, egregiously cheated. 

EGREGIOUSNESS:  The state of being egregious. 

EGREMOIN:  Agrimony (Agrimonia Eupatoria). [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EGRESS:  The passing off from the sun's disk of an inferior planet, in a transit. 

EGRESS:  To go out; to depart; to leave. 

EGRESSION:  The act of going; egress. [R.] B. Jonson. 

EGRESSOR:  One who goes out. [R.] 

EGRET:  The name of several species of herons which bear plumes on the back. They are generally white. Among the best known species are the American egret (Ardea, or Herodias, egretta); the great egret (A. alba); the little egret (A. garzetta), of Europe; and the American snowy egret (A. candidissima). A bunch of egrets killed for their plumage. G. W. Cable.  2. A plume or tuft of feathers worn as a part of a headdress, or anything imitating such an ornament; an aigrette.  3. (Bot.)  The flying feathery or hairy crown of seeds or achenes, as the down of the thistle.  4. (Zoöl.)  A kind of ape. 

EGRETTE:  Same as Egret, n.,  2. 

EGRIMONY:  The herb agrimony. [Obs.] 

EGRIMONY:  Sorrow. [Obs.] 

EGRIOT:  A kind of sour cherry. Bacon. 

EGRITUDE:  Sickness; ailment; sorrow. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

EGYPTIAN:  Pertaining to Egypt, in Africa. Egyptian bean. (Bot.) (a) The beanlike fruit of an aquatic plant (Nelumbium speciosum), somewhat resembling the water lily. (b) See under Bean,  1.  -- Egyptian cross. See Illust. (No. 6) of Cross.  -- Egyptian thorn (Bot.), a medium-sized tree (Acacia vera). It is one of the chief sources of the best gum arabic. 

EGYPTIZE:  To give an Egyptian character or appearance to. Fairbairn.  EGYPTOLOGER; EGYPTOLOGIST E`gyp*tol"o*ger, E`gyp*tol"o*gist, n.  One skilled in the antiquities of Egypt; a student of Egyptology. 

EGYPTOLOGICAL:  Of, pertaining to, or devoted to, Egyptology. 

EGYPTOLOGY:  The science or study of Egyptian antiquities, esp. the hieroglyphics. 

EH:  An expression of inquiry or slight surprise. 

EHLITE:  A mineral of a green color and pearly luster; a hydrous phosphate of copper. 

EIDER:  Any species of sea duck of the genus Somateria, esp. Somateria mollissima, which breeds in the northern parts of Europe and America, and lines its nest with fine down (taken from its own body) which is an article of commerce; -- called also eider duck. The American eider (S. Dresseri), the king eider (S. spectabilis), and the spectacled eider (Arctonetta Fischeri) are related species. Eider down. Etym: [Cf. Icel. æ\'ebardun, Sw. eiderdun, Dan. ederduun.] Down of the eider duck, much sought after as an article of luxury. 

EIDOGRAPH:  An instrument for copying drawings on the same or a different scale; a form of the pantograph. 

EIDOLON:  An image or representation; a form; a phantom; an apparition. Sir W. Scott. 

EIGH:  An exclamation expressing delight. 

EIGHT:  An island in a river; an ait. [Obs.] "Osiers on their eights." Evelyn. 

EIGHT:  Seven and one; as, eight years. 

EIGHTEEN:  Eight and ten; as, eighteen pounds. 

EIGHTEENMO:  See Octodecimo. 

EIGHTETETHE:  Eighteenth. [Obs.] 

EIGHTFOLD:  Eight times a quantity. 

EIGHTH:  The interval of an octave. 

EIGHTHLY:  As the eighth in order. 

EIGHTIETH:  The quotient of a unit divided by eighty; one of eighty equal parts. 

EIGHTLING:  A compound or twin crystal made up of eight individuals. 

EIGHTSCORE:  Eight times twenty; a hundred and sixty. 

EIGHTY:  Eight times ten; fourscore. 

EIGNE:  Eldest; firstborn. Blackstone.  2. Entailed; belonging to the eldest son. [Obs.] Bastard eigne, a bastard eldest son whose parents afterwards intermarry. 

EIKING:  See Eking. 

EIKON:  An image or effigy; -- used rather in an abstract sense, and rarely for a work of art. 

EIKONOGEN:  The sodium salt of a sulphonic acid of a naphthol, C10H5(OH)(NH2)SO3Na used as a developer. 

EIKOSANE:  A solid hydrocarbon, C20H42, of the paraffine series, of artificial production, and also probably occurring in petroleum. 

EIKOSYLENE:  A liquid hydrocarbon, C20H38, of the acetylene series, obtained from brown coal. 

EILD:  Age. [Obs.] Fairfax. 

EIRE:  Air. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EIRENARCH:  A justice of the peace; irenarch. 

EIRENIC:  Pacific. See Irenic. 

EIRIE:  See Aerie, and Eyrie. 

EISEL:  Vinegar; verjuice. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

EISTEDDFOD:  Am assembly or session of the Welsh bards; an annual congress of bards, minstrels and literati of Wales, -- being a patriotic revival of the old custom. 

EITHER:  precedes two, or more, coördinate words or phrases, and is introductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or. Either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth. 1 Kings xviii. 27. Few writers hesitate to use either in what is called a triple alternative; such as, We must either stay where we are, proceed, or recede. Latham.  Note: Either was formerly sometimes used without any correlation, and where we should now use or. Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries either a vine, figs James iii. 12. 

EJACULATE:  To utter ejaculations; to make short and hasty exclamations. [R.] "Ejaculating to himself." Sir W. Scott. 

EJACULATION:  The act of ejecting or suddenly throwing, as a fluid from a duct. 

EJACULATOR:  A muscle which helps ejaculation. 

EJECT:  To cast out; to evict; to dispossess; as, to eject tenants from an estate.  Syn.  -- To expel; banish; drive out; discharge; oust; evict; dislodge; extrude; void. 

EJECTA:  Matter ejected; material thrown out; as, the ejecta of a volcano; the ejecta, or excreta, of the body. 

EJECTION:  The act or process of discharging anything from the body, particularly the excretions.  3. The state of being ejected or cast out; dispossession; banishment. 

EJECTMENT:  A species of mixed action, which lies for the recovery of possession of real property, and damages and costs for the wrongful withholding of it. Wharton. 

EJECTOR:  A jet jump for lifting water or withdrawing air from a space. Ejector condenser (Steam Engine), a condenser in which the vacuum is maintained by a jet pump. 

EJOO:  Gomuti fiber. See Gomuti. 

EJULATION:  A wailing; lamentation. [Obs.] "Ejulation in the pangs of death." Philips.  EKABOR; EKABORON Ek"a*bor`, Ek"a*bo"ron, n. Etym: [G., fr. Skr. one + G. bor, boron, E. boron.] (Chem.)  The name given by Mendelejeff in accordance with the periodic law, and by prediction, to a hypothetical element then unknown, but since discovered and named scandium; -- so called because it was a missing analogue of the boron group. See Scandium. 

EKALUMINIUM:  The name given to a hypothetical element, -- later discovered and called gallium. See Gallium, and cf. Ekabor. 

EKASILICON:  The name of a hypothetical element predicted and afterwards discovered and named germanium; -- so called because it was a missing analogue of the silicon group. See Germanium, and cf. Ekkabor. 

EKE:  To increase; to add to; to augment; -- now commonly used with out, the notion conveyed being to add to, or piece out by a laborious, inferior, or scanty addition; as, to eke out a scanty supply of one kind with some other. "To eke my pain." Spenser. He eked out by his wits an income of barely fifty pounds. Macaulay. 

EKE:  In addition; also; likewise. [Obs. or Archaic] 'T will be prodigious hard to prove That this is eke the throne of love. Prior. A trainband captain eke was he Of famous London town. Cowper.  Note: Eke serves less to unite than to render prominent a subjoined more important sentence or notion. Mätzner. 

EKE:  An addition. [R.] Clumsy ekes that may well be spared. Geddes. 

EKEBERGITE:  A variety of scapolite. 

EKENAME:  An additional or epithet name; a nickname. [Obs.] 

EKING:  Originally, the highest note in the scale of Guido; hence, proverbially, any extravagant saying. "Why, this is above E-la!" Beau. & Fl. 

ELABORATE:  Wrought with labor; finished with great care; studied; executed with exactness or painstaking; as, an elaborate discourse; an elaborate performance; elaborate research. Drawn to the life in each elaborate page. Waller.  Syn.  -- Labored; complicated; studied; perfected; high-wrought.  -- E*lab"o*rate*ly, adv.  -- E*lab"o*rate*ness, n. 

ELABORATED:  developed or executed with care and in minute detail; as, the carefully elaborated theme. Syn. -- detailed, elaborate. [WordNet 1.5] 

ELABORATION:  The natural process of formation or assimilation, performed by the living organs in animals and vegetables, by which a crude substance is changed into something of a higher order; as, the elaboration of food into chyme; the elaboration of chyle, or sap, or tissues. 

ELABORATIVE:  Serving or tending to elaborate; constructing with labor and minute attention to details. Elaborative faculty (Metaph.), the intellectual power of discerning relations and of viewing objects by means of, or in, relations; the discursive faculty; thought. 

ELABORATOR:  One who, or that which, elaborates. 

ELABORATORY:  Tending to elaborate. 

ELABORATORY:  A laboratory. [Obs.] 

ELAEAGNUS:  A genus of shrubs or small trees, having the foliage covered with small silvery scales; oleaster. 

ELAEIS:  A genus of palms.  Note: Elæis Guineensis, the African oil palm, is a tree twenty or thirty feet high, with immense pinnate leaves and large masses of fruit. The berries are rather larger than olives, and when boiled in water yield the orange-red palm oil. 

ELAEOLITE:  A variety of hephelite, usually massive, of greasy luster, and gray to reddish color. Elæolite syenite, a kind of syenite characterized by the presence of elæolite. 

ELAEOPTENE:  The more liquid or volatile portion of certain oily substance, as distinguished from stearoptene, the more solid parts. [Written also elaoptene.] 

ELAIDATE:  A salt of elaidic acid. 

ELAIDIC:  Relating to oleic acid, or elaine. Elaidic acid (Chem.), a fatty acid isomeric with oleic acid, and obtained from it by the action of nitrous acid. 

ELAIDIN:  A solid isomeric modification of olein.  ELAINE; ELAIN E*la"ine, or E*la"in, n. Etym: [Gr. élaïne.] (Chem.)  Same as Olein. 

ELAIODIC:  Derived from castor oil; ricinoleic; as, elaiodic acid. [R.] 

ELAIOMETER:  An apparatus for determining the amount of oil contained in any substance, or for ascertaining the degree of purity of oil. 

ELAMITE:  A dweller in Flam (or Susiana), an ancient kingdom of Southwestern Asia, afterwards a province of Persia. 

ELAMPING:  Shining. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 

ELAN:  Ardor inspired by passion or enthusiasm. 

ELANCE:  To throw as a lance; to hurl; to dart. [R.] While thy unerring hand elanced . . . a dart. Prior. 

ELAND:  A species of large South African antelope (Oreas canna). It is valued both for its hide and flesh, and is rapidly disappearing in the settled districts; -- called also Cape elk.  2. (Zoöl.)  The elk or moose. 

ELANET:  A kite of the genus Elanus. 

ELAOLITE:  See Elæolite. 

ELAOPTENE:  See Elæoptene. 

ELAPHINE:  Pertaining to, resembling, or characteristic of, the stag, or Cervus elaphus. 

ELAPHURE:  A species of deer (Elaphurus Davidianus) found in china. It about four feet high at the shoulder and has peculiar antlers. 

ELAPIDATION:  A clearing away of stones. [R.] 

ELAPINE:  Like or pertaining to the Elapidæ, a family of poisonous serpents, including the cobras. See Ophidia. 

ELAPS:  A genus of venomous snakes found both in America and the Old World. Many species are known. See Coral snake, under Coral. 

ELAPSE:  To slip or glide away; to pass away silently, as time; -- used chiefly in reference to time. Eight days elapsed; at length a pilgrim came. Hoole. 

ELAPSION:  The act of elapsing. [R.] 

ELAQUEATE:  To disentangle. [R.] 

ELASIPODA:  An order of holothurians mostly found in the deep sea. They are remarkable for their bilateral symmetry and curious forms. [Written also Elasmopoda.] 

ELASMOBRANCH:  Of or pertaining to the Elasmobranchii.  -- n.  One of the Elasmobranchii. 

ELASMOBRANCHIATE:  Of or pertaining to Elasmobranchii.  -- n.  One of the Elasmobranchii. 

ELASMOBRANCHII:  A subclass of fishes, comprising the sharks, the rays, and the Chimæra. The skeleton is mainly cartilaginous. 

ELASMOSAURUS:  An extinct, long-necked, marine, cretaceous reptile from Kansas, allied to Plesiosaurus. 

ELASTIC:  An elastic woven fabric, as a belt, braces or suspenders, etc., made in part of India rubber. [Colloq.] 

ELASTICAL:  Elastic. [R.] Bentley. 

ELASTICALLY:  In an elastic manner; by an elastic power; with a spring. 

ELASTICNESS:  The quality of being elastic; elasticity. 

ELASTIN:  A nitrogenous substance, somewhat resembling albumin, which forms the chemical basis of elastic tissue. It is very insoluble in most fluids, but is gradually dissolved when digested with either pepsin or trypsin. 

ELATEDLY:  With elation. 

ELATEDNESS:  The state of being elated. 

ELATER:  One who, or that which, elates. 

ELATER:  An elastic spiral filament for dispersing the spores, as in some liverworts.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any beetle of the family Elateridæ, having the habit, when laid on the back, of giving a sudden upward spring, by a quick movement of the articulation between the abdomen and thorax; -- called also click beetle, spring beetle, and snapping beetle.  3. (Zoöl.)  The caudal spring used by Podura and related insects for leaping. See Collembola. 

ELATER:  The active principle of elaterium, being found in the juice of the wild or squirting cucumber (Ecballium agreste, formerly Motordica Elaterium) and other related species. It is extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance, which is a violent purgative. 

ELATERITE:  A mineral resin, of a blackish brown color, occurring in soft, flexible masses; -- called also mineral caoutchouc, and elastic bitumen. 

ELATERIUM:  A cathartic substance obtained, in the form of yellowish or greenish cakes, as the dried residue of the juice of the wild or squirting cucumber (Ecballium agreste, formerly called Momordica Elaterium). 

ELATEROMETER:  Same as Elatrometer. 

ELATERY:  Acting force; elasticity. [Obs.] Ray. 

ELATION:  A lifting up by success; exaltation; inriation with pride of prosperity. "Felt the elation of triumph." Sir W. Scott. 

ELATIVE:  Raised; lifted up; -- a term applied to what is also called the absolute superlative, denoting a high or intense degree of a quality, but not excluding the idea that an equal degree may exist in other cases. 

ELATROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the degree of rarefaction of air contained in the receiver of an air pump. [Spelt also elaterometer.] 

ELAYL:  Olefiant gas or ethylene; -- so called by Berzelius from its forming an oil combining with chlorine. [Written also elayle.] See Ethylene. 

ELBOW:  A sharp angle in any surface of wainscoting or other woodwork; the upright sides which flank any paneled work, as the sides of windows, where the jamb makes an elbow with the window back. Gwilt.  Note: Elbow is used adjectively or as part of a compound, to denote something shaped like, or acting like, an elbow; as, elbow joint; elbow tongs or elbow-tongs; elbowroom, elbow-room, or elbow room. At the elbow, very near; at hand.  -- Elbow grease, energetic application of force in manual labor. [Low] -- Elbow in the hawse (Naut.), the twisting together of two cables by which a vessel rides at anchor, caused by swinging completely round once. Totten.  -- Elbow scissors (Surg.), scissors bent in the blade or shank for convenience in cutting. Knight.  -- Out at elbow, with coat worn through at the elbows; shabby; in needy circumstances. 

ELBOW:  To push or hit with the elbow, as when one pushes by another. They [the Dutch] would elbow our own aldermen off the Royal Exchange. Macaulay. To elbow one's way, to force one's way by pushing with the elbows; as, to elbow one's way through a crowd. 

ELBOWBOARD:  The base of a window casing, on which the elbows may rest. 

ELBOWCHAIR:  A chair with arms to support the elbows; an armchair. Addison. 

ELBOWROOM:  Room to extend the elbows on each side; ample room for motion or action; free scope. "My soul hath elbowroom." Shak. Then came a stretch of grass and a little more elbowroom. W. G. Norris. 

ELCAJA:  An Arabian tree (Trichilia emetica). The fruit, which is emetic, is sometimes employed in the composition of an ointment for the cure of the itch. 

ELCESAITE:  One of a sect of Asiatic Gnostics of the time of the Emperor Trajan. 

ELD:  Old. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ELD:  To age; to grow old. [Obs.] 

ELD:  To make old or ancient. [Obs.] Time, that eldeth all things. Rom. of R. 

ELDER:  A clergyman authorized to administer all the sacraments; as, a traveling elder. Presiding elder (Meth. Ch.), an elder commissioned by a bishop to have the oversight of the churches and preachers in a certain district.  -- Ruling elder, a lay presbyter or member of a Presbyterian church session. Schaff. 

ELDER:  A genus of shrubs (Sambucus) having broad umbels of white flowers, and small black or red berries.  Note: The common North American species is Sambucus Canadensis; the common European species (S. nigra) forms a small tree. The red- berried elder is S. pubens. The berries are diaphoretic and aperient. Box elder. See under 1st Box.  -- Dwarf elder. See Danewort.  -- Elder tree. (Bot.) Same as Elder. Shak.  -- Marsh elder, the cranberry tree Viburnum Opulus). 

ELDERBERRY:  The berrylike drupe of the elder. That of the Old World elder (Sambucus nigra) and that of the American sweet elder (S. Canadensis) are sweetish acid, and are eaten as a berry or made into wine. 

ELDERISH:  Somewhat old; elderly. [R.] 

ELDERLY:  Somewhat old; advanced beyond middle age; bordering on old age; as, elderly people. 

ELDERN:  Made of elder. [Obs.] He would discharge us as boys do eldern guns. Marston. 

ELDERWORT:  Danewort. 

ELDING:  Fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.  EL DORADO El` Do*ra"do, pl. El Doradoes (. Etym: [Sp., lit., the gilt (sc. land); el the + dorado gilt, p. p. of dorare to gild. Cf. Dorado.]  1. A name given by the Spaniards in the 16th century to an imaginary country in the interior of South America, reputed to abound in gold and precious stones.  2. Any region of fabulous wealth; exceeding richness. The whole comedy is a sort of El Dorado of wit. T. Moore. 

ELDRITCH:  Hideous; ghastly; as, an eldritch shriek or laugh. [Local, Eng.] 

ELEATIC:  Of or pertaining to a certain school of Greek philosophers who taught that the only certain science is that which owes nothing to the senses, and all to the reason.  -- n.  A philosopher of the Eleatic school. 

ELEATICISM:  The Eleatic doctrine. 

ELECAMPANE:  A large, coarse herb (Inula Helenium), with composite yellow flowers. The root, which has a pungent taste, is used as a tonic, and was formerly of much repute as a stomachic.  2. A sweetmeat made from the root of the plant. 

ELECT:  Chosen as the object of mercy or divine favor; set apart to eternal life. "The elect angels." 1 Tim. v. 21.  3. Chosen to an office, but not yet actually inducted into it; as, bishop elect; governor or mayor elect. 

ELECT:  Those who are chosen for salvation. Shall not God avenge his won elect Luke xviii. 7. 

ELECT:  To designate, choose, or select, as an object of mercy or favor.  Syn.  -- To choose; prefer; select. See Choose. 

ELECTANT:  One who has the power of choosing; an elector. [R.] 

ELECTARY:  See Electuary. 

ELECTIC:  See Eclectic. 

ELECTICISM:  See Eclecticism. 

ELECTION:  Divine choice; predestination of individuals as objects of mercy and salvation; -- one of the "five points" of Calvinism. There is a remnant according to the election of grace. Rom. xi. 5.  6. (Law)  The choice, made by a party, of two alternatives, by taking one of which, the chooser is excluded from the other.  7. Those who are elected. [Obs.] The election hath obtained it. Rom. xi. 7. To contest an election. See under Contest.  -- To make one's election, to choose. He has made his election to walk, in the main, in the old paths. Fitzed. Hall. 

ELECTIONEER:  To make interest for a candidate at an election; to use arts for securing the election of a candidate. A master of the whole art of electioneering. Macaulay. 

ELECTIONEERER:  One who electioneers. 

ELECTIVE:  In an American college, an optional study or course of study. [Colloq.] 

ELECTIVELY:  In an elective manner; by choice. 

ELECTOR:  Pertaining to an election or to electors. In favor of the electoral and other princes. Burke. Electoral college, the body of princes formerly entitled to elect the Emperor of Germany; also, a name sometimes given, in the United States, to the body of electors chosen by the people to elect the President and Vice President. 

ELECTORALITY:  The territory or dignity of an elector; electorate. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. 

ELECTORESS:  An electress. Bp. Burnet. 

ELECTORIAL:  Electoral. Burke. 

ELECTORSHIP:  The office or status of an elector.  ELECTRE; ELECTER E*lec"tre, E*lec"ter, n. Etym: [L. electrum: cf. F. électre mixture of gold and silver. See Electrum.]  1. Amber. See Electrum. [Obs.]  2. A metallic substance compounded of gold and silver; an alloy. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

ELECTREPETER:  An instrument used to change the direction of electric currents; a commutator. [R.] 

ELECTRESS:  The wife or widow of an elector in the old German empire. Burke.  ELECTRIC; ELECTRICAL E*lec"tric, E*lec"tric*al, a. Etym: [L. electrum amber, a mixed metal, Gr. arc to beam, shine: cf. F. électrique. The name came from the production of electricity by the friction of amber.]  1. Pertaining to electricity; consisting of, containing, derived from, or produced by, electricity; as, electric power or virtue; an electric jar; electric effects; an electric spark.  2. Capable of occasioning the phenomena of electricity; as, an electric or electrical machine or substance.  3. Electrifying; thrilling; magnetic. "Electric Pindar." Mrs. Browning. Electric atmosphere, or Electric aura. See under Aura.  -- Electrical battery. See Battery.  -- Electrical brush. See under Brush.  -- Electric cable. See Telegraph cable, under Telegraph.  -- Electric candle. See under Candle.  -- Electric cat (Zoöl.), one of three or more large species of African catfish of the genus Malapterurus (esp. M. electricus of the Nile). They have a large electrical organ and are able to give powerful shocks; -- called also sheathfish.  -- Electric clock. See under Clock, and see Electro-chronograph.  -- Electric current, a current or stream of electricity traversing a closed circuit formed of conducting substances, or passing by means of conductors from one body to another which is in a different electrical state.  -- Electric, or Electrical, eel (Zoöl.), a South American eel-like fresh-water fish of the genus Gymnotus (G. electricus), from two to five feet in length, capable of giving a violent electric shock. See Gymnotus.  -- Electrical fish (Zoöl.), any fish which has an electrical organ by means of which it can give an electrical shock. The best known kinds are the torpedo, the gymnotus, or electrical eel, and the electric cat. See Torpedo, and Gymnotus.  -- Electric fluid, the supposed matter of electricity; lightning.  -- Electrical image (Elec.), a collection of electrical points regarded as forming, by an analogy with optical phenomena, an image of certain other electrical points, and used in the solution of electrical problems. Sir W. Thomson.  -- Electrical light, the light produced by a current of electricity which in passing through a resisting medium heats it to incandescence or burns it. See under Carbon.  -- Electric, or Electrical, machine, an apparatus for generating, collecting, or exciting, electricity, as by friction.  -- Electric motor. See Electro-motor,  2.  -- Electric osmose. (Physics) See under Osmose.  -- Electric pen, a hand pen for making perforated stencils for multiplying writings. It has a puncturing needle driven at great speed by a very small magneto-electric engine on the penhandle.  -- Electric railway, a railway in which the machinery for moving the cars is driven by an electric current.  -- Electric ray (Zoöl.), the torpedo.  -- Electric telegraph. See Telegraph. 

ELECTRIC:  A nonconductor of electricity, as amber, glass, resin, etc., employed to excite or accumulate electricity. 

ELECTRICALLY:  In the manner of electricity, or by means of it; thrillingly. 

ELECTRICALNESS:  The state or quality of being electrical. 

ELECTRICIAN:  An investigator of electricity; one versed in the science of electricity. 

ELECTRIFIABLE:  Capable of receiving electricity, or of being charged with it. 

ELECTRIFICATION:  The act of electrifying, or the state of being charged with electricity. 

ELECTRIFY:  To become electric. 

ELECTRITION:  The recognition by an animal body of the electrical condition of external objects. 

ELECTRIZATION:  The act of electrizing; electrification. 

ELECTRIZE:  To electricity. Eng. Cyc. 

ELECTRIZER:  One who, or that which, electrizes.  ELECTRO- E*lec"tro-. Etym: [L. electrum amber. See Electric.]  A prefix or combining form signifying pertaining to electricity, produced by electricity, producing or employing electricity, etc.; as, electro-negative; electro-dynamic; electro- magnet. 

ELECTRO:  An electrotype.  ELECTRO-BALLISTIC E*lec`tro-bal*lis"tic, a.  Pertaining to electro-ballistics.  ELECTRO-BALLISTICS E*lec`tro-bal*lis"tics, n.  The art or science of measuring the force or velocity of projectiles by means of electricity.  ELECTRO-BIOLOGIST E*lec`tro-bi*ol"o*gist, n. (Biol.)  One versed in electro-biology.  ELECTRO-BIOLOGY E*lec`tro-bi*ol"o*gy, n. (Biol.)  1. That branch of biology which treats of the electrical phenomena of living organisms.  2. That phase of mesmerism or animal magnetism, the phenomena of which are supposed to be produced by a form of electricity.  ELECTRO-BIOSCOPY E*lec`tro-bi*os"co*py, n. Etym: [Electro- + Gr. -scopy.] (Biol.)  A method of determining the presence or absence of life in an animal organism with a current of electricity, by noting the presence or absence of muscular contraction.  ELECTRO-CAPILLARITY E*lec`tro-cap`il*lar"i*ty, n. (Physics)  The occurrence or production of certain capillary effects by the action of an electrical current or charge.  ELECTRO-CAPILLARY E*lec`tro-cap"il*la*ry, a. (Physics)  Pert. to, or caused by, electro-capillarity.  ELECTRO-CHEMICAL E*lec`tro-chem"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to electro-chemistry. Ure.  ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY E*lec`tro-chem"is*try, n.  That branch of science which treats of the relation of electricity to chemical changes.  ELECTRO-CHRONOGRAPH E*lec`tro-chron"o*graph, n. (Astron. Physics)  An instrument for obtaining an accurate record of the time at which any observed phenomenon occurs, or of its duration. It has an electro-magnetic register connected with a clock. See Chronograph.  ELECTRO-CHRONOGRAPHIC E*lec`tro-chron`o*graph"ic, a.  Belonging to the electro-chronograph, or recorded by the aid of it. 

ELECTROCUTE:  To execute or put to death by electricity.  -- E*lec`tro*cu"tion, n.  Note: [Recent; Newspaper words] 

ELECTRODE:  The path by which electricity is conveyed into or from a solution or other conducting medium; esp., the ends of the wires or conductors, leading from source of electricity, and terminating in the medium traversed by the current.  ELECTRO-DYNAMIC; ELECTRO-DYNAMICAL E*lec`tro-dy*nam"ic, E*lec`tro-dy*nam"ic*al, a. (Physics)  Pertaining to the movements or force of electric or galvanic currents; dependent on electric force.  ELECTRO-DYNAMICS E*lec`tro-dy*nam"ics, n.  1. The phenomena of electricity in motion.  2. The branch of science which treats of the properties of electric currents; dynamical electricity.  ELECTRO-DYNAMOMETER E*lec`tro-dy`na*mom"e*ter, n.  An instrument for measuring the strength of electro-dynamic currents.  ELECTRO-ENGRAVING E*lec`tro-en*grav"ing, n.  The art or process of engraving by means of electricity.  ELECTRO-ETCHING E*lec`tro-etch"ing, n.  A mode of etching upon metals by electrolytic action. 

ELECTROGENESIS:  Same as Electrogeny. 

ELECTROGENIC:  Of or pertaining to electrogenesis; as, an electrogenic condition. 

ELECTROGENY:  A term sometimes applied to the effects (tetanus) produced in the muscles of the limbs, when a current of electricity is passed along the spinal cord or nerves.  ELECTRO-GILDING E*lec`tro-gild"ing, n.  The art or process of gilding copper, iron, etc., by means of voltaic electricity.  ELECTRO-GILT E*lec"tro-gilt`, a.  Gilded by means of voltaic electricity. 

ELECTROGRAPH:  A mark, record, or tracing, made by the action of electricity. 

ELECTROGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to an electrograph or electrography. 

ELECTROGRAPHY:  Of or pertaining to electro-kinetics.  ELECTRO-KINETICS E*lec`tro-ki*net"ics, n.  That branch of electrical science which treats of electricity in motion. 

ELECTROLIER:  A branching frame, often of ornamental design, to support electric illuminating lamps. 

ELECTROLOGY:  That branch of physical science which treats of the phenomena of electricity and its properties. 

ELECTROLYSIS:  The act or process of chemical decomposition, by the action of electricity; as, the electrolysis of silver or nickel for plating; the electrolysis of water. 

ELECTROLYTE:  A compound decomposable, or subjected to decomposition, by an electric current.  ELECTROLYTIC; ELECTROLYTICAL E*lec`tro*lyt"ic, E*lec`tro*lyt"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. électrolytique.]  Pertaining to electrolysis; as, electrolytic action.  -- E*lec`tro*lyt"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ELECTROLYZABLE:  Capable of being electrolyzed, or decomposed by electricity. 

ELECTROLYZATION:  The act or the process of electrolyzing. 

ELECTROLYZE:  To decompose by the direct action of electricity. Faraday.  ELECTRO-MAGNET E*lec`tro-mag"net, n.  A mass, usually of soft iron, but sometimes of some other magnetic metal, as nickel or cobalt, rendered temporarily magnetic by being placed within a coil of wire through which a current of electricity is passing. The metal is generally in the form of a bar, either straight, or bent into the shape of a horseshoe.  ELECTRO-MAGNETIC E*lec`tro-mag*net"ic, a.  Of, Pertaining to, or produced by, magnetism which is developed by the passage of an electric current. Electro-magnetic engine, an engine in which the motive force is electro-magnetism.  -- Electro-magnetic theory of light (Physics), a theory of light which makes it consist in the rapid alternation of transient electric currents moving transversely to the direction of the ray.  ELECTRO-MAGNETISM E*lec`tro-mag"net*ism, n.  The magnetism developed by a current of electricity; the science which treats of the development of magnetism by means of voltaic electricity, and of the properties or actions of the currents evolved.  ELECTRO-METALLURGY E*lec`tro-met"al*lur`gy, n.  The act or art precipitating a metal electro-chemical action, by which a coating is deposited, on a prepared surface, as in electroplating and electrotyping; galvanoplasty. 

ELECTROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the quantity or intensity of electricity; also, sometimes, and less properly, applied to an instrument which indicates the presence of electricity (usually called an electroscope). Balance electrometer. See under Balance.  ELECTRO-METRIC; ELECTRO-METRICAL E*lec`tro-met"ric, E*lec`tro-met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. électrométrique.]  Pertaining to electrometry; made by means of electrometer; as, an electrometrical experiment. 

ELECTROMETRY:  The art or process of making electrical measurements.  ELECTRO-MOTION E*lec`tro-mo"tion, n.  The motion of electricity or its passage from one metal to another in a voltaic circuit; mechanical action produced by means of electricity.  ELECTRO-MOTIVE E*lec`tro-mo"tive, a.  Producing electro-motion; producing, or tending to produce, electricity or an electric current; causing electrical action or effects. Electro-motive force (Physics), the force which produces, or tends to produce, electricity, or an electric current; sometimes used to express the degree of electrification as equivalent to potential, or more properly difference of potential. 

ELECTROMOTOR:  A mover or exciter of electricity; as apparatus for generating a current of electricity.  2. (Mech.)  An apparatus or machine for producing motion and mechanical effects by the action of electricity; an electro-magnetic engine.  ELECTRO-MUSCULAR E*lec`tro-mus"cu*lar, a. (Physiol.)  Pertaining the reaction (contraction) of the muscles under electricity, or their sensibility to it. 

ELECTRON:  Amber; also, the alloy of gold and silver, called electrum.  ELECTRO-NEGATIVE E*lec`tro-neg"a*tive, a. (Chem. & Physics) (a) Having the property of being attracted by an electro-positive body, or a tendency to pass to the positive pole in electrolysis, by the law that opposite electricities attract each other. (b) Negative; nonmetallic; acid; -- opposed to positive, metallic, or basic.  ELECTRO-NEGATIVE E*lec`tro-neg"a*tive, n. (Chem. & Physics)  A body which passes to the positive pole in electrolysis. 

ELECTRONIC:  Of or pertaining to an electron or electrons. 

ELECTROPATHY:  The treatment of disease by electricity. 

ELECTROPHONE:  An instrument for producing sound by means of electric currents. 

ELECTROPHORUS:  An instrument for exciting electricity, and repeating the charge indefinitely by induction, consisting of a flat cake of resin, shelllac, or ebonite, upon which is placed a plate of metal.  ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGICAL E*lec`tro-phys`i*o*log"ic*al, a. (Physiol.)  Pertaining to electrical results produced through physiological agencies, or by change of action in a living organism.  ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGY E*lec`tro-phys`i*ol"o*gy, n. (Physiol.)  That branch of physiology which treats of electric phenomena produced through physiological agencies. 

ELECTROPLATE:  To plate or cover with a coating of metal, usually silver, nickel, or gold, by means of electrolysis. 

ELECTROPLATER:  One who electroplates. 

ELECTROPLATING:  The art or process of depositing a coating (commonly) of silver, gold, or nickel on an inferior metal, by means of electricity.  ELECTROPOION; ELECTROPOION FLUID E*lec`tro*poi"on, n., or Electropoion fluid. [NL.; electro- + Gr. poiw^n, p. pr. of poiei^n to make.] (Elec.)  An exciting and depolarizing acid solution used in certain cells or batteries, as the Grenet battery. Electropoion is best prepared by mixing one gallon of concentrated sulphuric acid diluted with three gallons of water, with a solution of six pounds of potassium bichromate in two gallons of boiling water. It should be used cold.  ELECTRO-POLAR E*lec`tro-po"lar, a. (Physics)  Possessing electrical polarity; positively electrified at one end, or on one surface, and negatively at the other; -- said of a conductor.  ELECTRO-POSITIVE E*lec`tro-pos"i*tive, a.  1. (Physics)  Of such a nature relatively to some other associated body or bodies, as to tend to the negative pole of a voltaic battery, in electrolysis, while the associated body tends to the positive pole; - - the converse or correlative of electro-negative.  Note: An element that is electro-positive in one compound may be electro-negative in another, and vice versa.  2. (Chem.)  Hence: Positive; metallic; basic; -- distinguished from negative, nonmetallic, or acid.  ELECTRO-POSITIVE E*lec`tro-pos"i*tive, n. (Chem. & Physics)  A body which passes to the negative pole in electrolysis.  ELECTRO-PUNCTURATION; ELECTRO-PUNCTURING E*lec`tro-punc`tu*ra"tion, E*lec`tro-punc`tur*ing, n. (Med.)  See Electropuncture.  ELECTRO-PUNCTURE E*lec`tro-punc`ture, n. (Med.)  An operation that consists in inserting needless in the part affected, and connecting them with the poles of a galvanic apparatus. 

ELECTROSCOPE:  An instrument for detecting the presence of electricity, or changes in the electric state of bodies, or the species of electricity present, as by means of pith balls, and the like. Condensing electroscope (Physics), a form of electroscope in which an increase of sensibility is obtained by the use of a condenser. 

ELECTROSCOPIC:  Relating to, or made by means of, the electroscope. 

ELECTROSTATIC:  Pertaining to electrostatics. 

ELECTROSTATICS:  That branch of science which treats of statical electricity or electric force in a state of rest.  ELECTRO-STEREOTYPE E*lec`tro-ste"re*o*type, n.  Same as Electrotype.  ELECTRO-TELEGRAPHIC E*lec`tro-tel`e*graph"ic, a.  Pertaining to the electric telegraph, or by means of it.  ELECTRO-TELEGRAPHY E*lec`tro-te*leg"ra*phy, n.  The art or science of constructing or using the electric telegraph; the transmission of messages by means of the electric telegraph.  ELECTRO-THERAPEUTICS E*lec`tro-ther`a*peu"tics, n. (Med.)  The branch of medical science which treats of the applications agent.  ELECTRO-THERMANCY E*lec`tro-ther"man*cy, n.  That branch of electrical science which treats of the effect of an electric current upon the temperature of a conductor, or a part of a circuit composed of two different metals.  ELECTRO-TINT E*lec"tro-tint`, n. (Fine Arts)  A style of engraving in relief by means of voltaic electricity. A picture is drawn on a metallic plate with some material which resists the fluids of a battery; so that, in electro-typing, the parts not covered by the varnish, etc., receive a deposition of metal, and produce the required copy in intaglio. A cast of this is then the plate for printing. 

ELECTROTONIC:  Of or pertaining to electrical tension; -- said of a supposed peculiar condition of a conducting circuit during its exposure to the action of another conducting circuit traversed by a uniform electric current when both circuits remain stationary. Faraday.  2. (Physiol.)  Relating to electrotonus; as, the electrotonic condition of a nerve. 

ELECTROTONIZE:  To cause or produce electrotonus. 

ELECTROTONOUS:  Electrotonic. 

ELECTROTONUS:  The modified condition of a nerve, when a constant current of electricity passes through any part of it. See Anelectrotonus, and Catelectrotonus. 

ELECTROTYPE:  A facsimile plate made by electrotypy for use in printing; also, an impression or print from such plate. Also used adjectively.  Note: The face of an electrotype consists of a shell of copper, silver, or the like, produced by the action of an electrical current upon a plate of metal and a wax mold suspended in an acid bath and connected with opposite poles of the battery. It is backed up with a solid filling of type metal. 

ELECTROTYPE:  To make facsimile plates of by the electrotype process; as to electrotype a page of type, a book, etc. See Electrotype, n. 

ELECTROTYPER:  One who electrotypes. 

ELECTROTYPIC:  Pertaining to, or effected by means of, electrotypy. 

ELECTROTYPING:  The act or the process of making electrotypes. 

ELECTROTYPY:  The process of producing electrotype plates. See Note under Electrotype, n.  ELECTRO-VITAL E*lec`tro-vi"tal, a.  Derived from, or dependent upon, vital processes; -- said of certain electric currents supposed by some physiologists to circulate in the nerves of animals.  ELECTRO-VITALISM E*lec`tro-vi"tal*ism, n. (Physiol.)  The theory that the functions of living organisms are dependent upon electricity or a kindred force. 

ELECTUARY:  A medicine composed of powders, or other ingredients, incorporated with some convserve, honey, or sirup; a confection. See the note under Confection. 

ELEEMOSYNARILY:  In an eleemosynary manner; by charity; charitably. 

ELEEMOSYNARY:  One who subsists on charity; a dependent. South.  ELEGANCE; ELEGANCY El"e*gance, El"e*gan*cy, n. Etym: [L. elegantia, fr. elegans, -antis, elegant: cf. F. élégance.]  1. The state or quality of being elegant; beauty as resulting from choice qualities and the complete absence of what deforms or impresses unpleasantly; grace given by art or practice; fine polish; refinement; -- said of manners, language, style, form, architecture, etc. That grace that elegance affords. Drayton. The endearing elegance of female friendship. Johnson. A trait of native elegance, seldom seen in the masculine character after childhood or early youth, was shown in the General's fondness for the sight and fragrance of flowers. Hawthorne.  2. That which is elegant; that which is tasteful and highly attractive. The beautiful wildness of nature, without the nicer elegancies of art. Spectator.  Syn.  -- Elegance, Grace. Elegance implies something of a select style of beauty, which is usually produced by art, skill, or training; as, elegance of manners, composition, handwriting, etc.; elegant furniture; an elegant house, etc. Grace, as the word is here used, refers to bodily movements, and is a lower order of beauty. It may be a natural gift; thus, the manners of a peasant girl may be graceful, but can hardly be called elegant. 

ELEGANTLY:  In a manner to please nice taste; with elegance; with due symmetry; richly. 

ELEGIAC:  Elegiac verse. 

ELEGIACAL:  Elegiac. 

ELEGIAST:  One who composes elegies. Goldsmith. 

ELEGIOGRAPHER:  An elegist. [Obs.] 

ELEGIST:  A write of elegies. T. Warton. 

ELEGIT:  A judicial writ of execution, by which a defendant's goods are appraised and delivered to the plaintiff, and, if no sufficient to satisfy the debt, all of his lands are delivered, to be held till the debt is paid by the rents and profits, or until the defendant's interest has expired. 

ELEGIZE:  To lament in an elegy; to celebrate in elegiac verse; to bewail. Carlyle. 

ELEGY:  A mournful or plaintive poem; a funereal song; a poem of lamentation. Shak. 

ELEIDIN:  Lifeless matter deposited in the form of minute granules within the protoplasm of living cells.  ELEME FIGS; ELEMI FIGS El"e*me figs`, El"e*mi figs`  (el"e*mi). [Turk. eleme anything which has been sifted and freed from dust or broken parts.]  A kind of figs of superior quality. 

ELEMENT:  One of the simplest essential parts, more commonly called cells, of which animal and vegetable organisms, or their tissues and organs, are composed.  6. (Math.) (a) An infinitesimal part of anything of the same nature as the entire magnitude considered; as, in a solid an element may be infinitesimal portion between any two planes that are separated and indefinitely small distance. In the calculus, element is sometimes used as synonymous with differential. (b) Sometimes a curve, or surface, or volume is considered as described by a moving point, or curve, or surface, the latter being at any instant called an element of the former. (c) One of the terms in an algebraic expression.  7. One of the necessary data or values upon which a system of calculations depends, or general conclusions are based; as, the elements of a planet's orbit.  8. pl.  The simplest or fundamental principles of any system in philosophy, science, or art; rudiments; as, the elements of geometry, or of music.  9. pl.  Any outline or sketch, regarded as containing the fundamental ideas or features of the thing in question; as, the elemental of a plan.  10. One of the simple substances, as supposed by the ancient philosophers; one of the imaginary principles of matter.  Note: (a) The four elements were, air, earth, water, and fire; whence it is said, water is the proper element of fishes; air is the element of birds. Hence, the state or sphere natural to anything or suited for its existence. Of elements The grosser feeds the purer: Earth the Sea; Earth and the Sea feed Air; the Air those Fires Ethereal. Milton. Does not our life consist of the four elements Shak. And the complexion of the element [i. e.,the sky or air] In favor's like the work we have in hand, Most bloody, fiery, and most terrible. Shak. About twelve ounces [of food], with mere element for drink. Cheyne. They show that they are out of their element. T. Baker. Esp., the conditions and movements of the air. "The elements be kind to thee." (b) The elements of the alchemists were salt, sulphur, and mercury. Brande & C.  11. pl.  The whole material composing the world. The elements shall melt with fervent heat. 2 Peter iii. 10.  12. pl. (Eccl.)  The bread and wine used in the eucharist or Lord's supper. Magnetic element, one of the hypothetical elementary portions of which a magnet is regarded as made up. 

ELEMENTALISM:  The theory that the heathen divinities originated in the personification of elemental powers. 

ELEMENTALITY:  The condition of being composed of elements, or a thing so composed. 

ELEMENTALLY:  According to elements; literally; as, the words, "Take, eat; this is my body," elementally understood. 

ELEMENTAR:  Elementary. [Obs.] Skelton. 

ELEMENTARINESS:  The state of being elementary; original simplicity; uncompounded state. 

ELEMENTARITY:  Elementariness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ELEMENTATION:  Instruction in the elements or first principles. [R.] 

ELEMENTOID:  Resembling an element. 

ELEMI:  A fragrant gum resin obtained chiefly tropical trees of the genera Amyris and Canarium. A. elemifera yields Mexican elemi; C. commune, the Manila elemi. It is used in the manufacture of varnishes, also in ointments and plasters. 

ELEMIN:  A transparent, colorless oil obtained from elemi resin by distillation with water; also, a crystallizable extract from the resin. 

ELENCHICAL:  Pertaining to an elench. 

ELENCHICALLY:  By means of an elench. 

ELENCHIZE:  To dispute. [R.] B. Jonson.  ELENCHTIC; ELENCHTICAL E*lench"tic, E*lench"tic*al, a.  Same as Elenctic. 

ELENCHUS:  Same as Elench.  ELENCTIC; ELENCTICAL E*lenc"tic, E*lenc"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Logic)  Serving to refute; refutative; -- applied to indirect modes of proof, and opposed to deictic. 

ELENGE:  Sorrowful; wretched; full of trouble. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ELENGENESS:  Loneliness; misery. [Obs.] 

ELEPHANSY:  Elephantiasis. [Obs.] Holland. 

ELEPHANT:  A mammal of the order Proboscidia, of which two living species, Elephas Indicus and E. Africanus, and several fossil species, are known. They have a proboscis or trunk, and two large ivory tusks proceeding from the extremity of the upper jaw, and curving upwards. The molar teeth are large and have transverse folds. Elephants are the largest land animals now existing.  2. Ivory; the tusk of the elephant. [Obs.] Dryden. Elephant apple (Bot.), an East Indian fruit with a rough, hard rind, and edible pulp, borne by Feronia elephantum, a large tree related to the orange.  -- Elephant bed (Geol.), at Brighton, England, abounding in fossil remains of elephants. Mantell.  -- Elephant beetle (Zoöl.), any very large beetle of the genus Goliathus (esp. G. giganteus), of the family Scarabæidæ. They inhabit West Africa.  -- Elephant fish (Zoöl.), a chimæroid fish (Callorhynchus antarcticus), with a proboscis-like projection of the snout.  -- Elephant paper, paper of large size, 23 × 28 inches.  -- Double elephant paper, paper measuring 26Paper.  -- Elephant seal (Zoöl.), an African jumping shrew (Macroscelides typicus), having a long nose like a proboscis.  -- Elephant's ear (Bot.), a name given to certain species of the genus Begonia, which have immense one-sided leaves.  -- Elephant's foot (Bot.) (a) A South African plant (Testudinaria Elephantipes), which has a massive rootstock covered with a kind of bark cracked with deep fissures; -- called also tortoise plant. The interior part is barely edible, whence the plant is also called Hottentot's bread. (b) A genus (Elephantopus) of coarse, composite weeds.  -- Elephant's tusk (Zoöl.), the tooth shell. See Dentalium. 

ELEPHANTIAC:  Affected with elephantiasis; characteristic of elephantiasis. 

ELEPHANTIASIS:  A disease of the skin, in which it become enormously thickened, and is rough, hard, and fissured, like an elephant's hide. 

ELEPHANTINE:  Pertaining to the elephant, or resembling an elephant (commonly, in size); hence, huge; immense; heavy; as, of elephantine proportions; an elephantine step or tread. Elephantine epoch (Geol.), the epoch distinguished by the existence of large pachyderms. Mantell.  -- Elephantine tortoise (Zoöl.), a huge land tortoise; esp., Testudo elephantina, from islands in the Indian Ocean; and T. elephantopus, from the Galapagos Islands.  ELEPHANTOID; ELEPHANTOIDAL El"e*phan*toid`, El`e*phan*toid"al, a. Etym: [Elephant + -oid.] (Zoöl.)  Resembling an elephant in form or appearance. 

ELEUSINIAN:  Pertaining to Eleusis, in Greece, or to secret rites in honor of Ceres, there celebrated; as, Eleusinian mysteries or festivals. 

ELEUTHEROMANIA:  A mania or frantic zeal for freedom. [R.] Carlyle. 

ELEUTHEROMANIAC:  Mad for freedom. [R.]  ELEUTHERO-PETALOUS E*leu`ther*o-pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. petal.] (Bot.)  Having the petals free, that is, entirely separate from each other; -- said of both plant and flower. 

ELEVATE:  Elevated; raised aloft. [Poetic] Milton. 

ELEVATED:  Uplifted; high; lofty; also, animated; noble; as, elevated thoughts. Elevated railway, one in which the track is raised considerably above the ground, especially a city railway above the line of street travel. 

ELEVATEDNESS:  The quality of being elevated. 

ELEVATION:  The distance of a celestial object above the horizon, or the arc of a vertical circle intercepted between it and the horizon; altitude; as, the elevation of the pole, or of a star.  5. (Dialing)  The angle which the style makes with the substylar line.  6. (Gunnery)  The movement of the axis of a piece in a vertical plane; also, the angle of elevation, that is, the angle between the axis of the piece and the line odirection.  7. (Drawing)  A geometrical projection of a building, or other object, on a plane perpendicular to the horizon; orthographic projection on a vertical plane; -- called by the ancients the orthography. Angle of elevation (Geodesy), the angle which an ascending line makes with a horizontal plane.  -- Elevation of the host (R. C. Ch.), that part of the Mass in which the priest raises the host above his head for the people to adore. 

ELEVATOR:  One who, or that which, raises or lifts up anything; as: (a) A mechanical contrivance, usually an endless belt or chain with a series of scoops or buckets, for transferring grain to an upper loft for storage. (b) A cage or platform and the hoisting machinery in a hotel, warehouse, mine, etc., for conveying persons, goods, etc., to or from different floors or levels; -- called in England a lift; the cage or platform itself. (c) A building for elevating, storing, and discharging, grain. (d) (Anat.) A muscle which serves to raise a part of the body, as the leg or the eye. (e) (Surg.) An instrument for raising a depressed portion of a bone. Elevator head, leg, and boot, the boxes in which the upper pulley, belt, and lower pulley, respectively, run in a grain elevator. 

ELEVATORY:  Tending to raise, or having power to elevate; as, elevatory forces. 

ELEVATORY:  See Elevator, n. (e). Dunglison. 

ELEVE:  A pupil; a student. 

ELEVEN:  Ten and one added; as, eleven men. 

ELEVEN:  The eleven men selected to play on one side in a match, as the representatives of a club or a locality; as, the all-England eleven. 

ELEVENTH:  Of or pertaining to the interval of the octave and the fourth. 

ELEVENTH:  The interval consisting of ten conjunct degrees; the interval made up of an octave and a fourth. 

ELF:  To entangle mischievously, as an elf might do. Elf all my hair in knots. Shak. 

ELFIN:  Relating to elves. 

ELFIN:  A little elf or urchin. Shenstone. 

ELFISH:  Of or relating to the elves; elflike; implike; weird; scarcely human; mischievous, as though caused by elves. "Elfish light." Coleridge. The elfish intelligence that was so familiar an expression on her small physiognomy. Hawthorne. 

ELFISHLY:  In an elfish manner. 

ELFISHNESS:  The quality of being elfish. 

ELFKIN:  A little elf. 

ELFLAND:  Fairyland. Tennyson. 

ELFLOCK:  Hair matted, or twisted into a knot, as if by elves.  ELGIN MARBLES El"gin mar"bles.  Greek sculptures in the British Museum. They were obtained at Athens, about 1811, by Lord Elgin. 

ELICIT:  Elicited; drawn out; made real; open; evident. [Obs.] "An elicit act of equity." Jer. Taylor. 

ELICIT:  To draw out or entice forth; to bring to light; to bring out against the will; to deduce by reason or argument; as, to elicit truth by discussion. 

ELICITATE:  To elicit. [Obs.] 

ELICITATION:  The act of eliciting. [Obs.] Abp. Bramhall. 

ELIDE:  To cut off, as a vowel or a syllable, usually the final one; to subject to elision. 

ELIGIBILITY:  The quality of being eligible; eligibleness; as, the eligibility of a candidate; the eligibility of an offer of marriage. 

ELIGIBLENESS:  The quality worthy or qualified to be chosen; suitableness; desirableness. 

ELIGIBLY:  In an eligible manner. 

ELIMATE:  To render smooth; to polish. [Obs.] 

ELIMINANT:  The result of eliminating n variables between n homogeneous equations of any degree; -- called also resultant. 

ELIMINATE:  To cause to disappear from an equation; as, to eliminate an unknown quantity.  3. To set aside as unimportant in a process of inductive inquiry; to leave out of consideration. Eliminate errors that have been gathering and accumulating. Lowth.  4. To obtain by separating, as from foreign matters; to deduce; as, to eliminate an idea or a conclusion. [Recent, and not well authorized]  5. (Physiol.)  To separate; to expel from the system; to excrete; as, the kidneys eliminate urea, the lungs carbonic acid; to eliminate poison from the system. 

ELIMINATION:  the act of discharging or excreting waste products or foreign substances through the various emunctories.  2. (Alg.)  Act of causing a quantity to disappear from an equation; especially, in the operation of deducing from several equations containing several unknown quantities a less number of equations containing a less number of unknown quantities.  3. The act of obtaining by separation, or as the result of eliminating; deduction. [See Eliminate,  4.] 

ELIMINATIVE:  Relating to, or carrying on, elimination. 

ELINGUATE:  To deprive of the tongue. [Obs.] Davies (Holy Roode). 

ELINGUATION:  Punishment by cutting out the tongue. 

ELINGUID:  Tongue-tied; dumb. [Obs.] 

ELIQUAMENT:  A liquid obtained from fat, or fat fish, by pressure. 

ELIQUATION:  The process of separating a fusible substance from one less fusible, by means of a degree of heat sufficient to melt the one and not the other, as an alloy of copper and lead; liquation. Ure. 

ELISON:  The cutting off or suppression of a vowel or syllable, for the sake of meter or euphony; esp., in poetry, the dropping of a final vowel standing before an initial vowel in the following word, when the two words are drawn together. 

ELISOR:  An elector or chooser; one of two persons appointed by a court to return a jury or serve a writ when the sheriff and the coroners are disqualified. 

ELITE:  A choice or select body; the flower; as, the élite of society. 

ELIX:  To extract. [Obs.] Marston. 

ELIXATE:  To boil; to seethe; hence, to extract by boiling or seething. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

ELIXATION:  A seething; digestion. [Obs.] Burton. 

ELIXIR:  A tincture with more than one base; a compound tincture or medicine, composed of various substances, held in solution by alcohol in some form.  2. (Alchemy)  An imaginary liquor capable of transmuting metals into gold; also, one for producing life indefinitely; as, elixir vitæ, or the elixir of life.  3. The refined spirit; the quintessence. The . . . elixir of worldly delights. South.  4. Any cordial or substance which invigorates. The grand elixir, to support the spirits of human nature. Addison. 

ELIZABETHAN:  Pertaining to Queen Elizabeth or her times, esp. to the architecture or literature of her reign; as, the Elizabethan writers, drama, literature.  -- n.  One who lived in England in the time of Queen Elizabeth. Lowell. 

ELK:  A large deer, of several species. The European elk (Alces machlis or Cervus alces) is closely allied to the American moose. The American elk, or wapiti (Cervus Canadensis), is closely related to the European stag. See Moose, and Wapiti. Irish elk (Paleon.), a large, extinct, Quaternary deer (Cervus giganteus) with widely spreading antlers. Its remains have been found beneath the peat of swamps in Ireland and England. See Illustration in Appendix; also Illustration of Antler.  -- Cape elk (Zoöl.), the eland.  ELK; ELKE Elk, Elke, n. (Zoöl.)  The European wild or whistling swan (Cygnus ferus). 

ELKNUT:  The buffalo nut. See under Buffalo. 

ELKWOOD:  The soft, spongy wood of a species of Magnolia (M. Umbrella). 

ELL:  A measure for cloth; -- now rarely used. It is of different lengths in different countries; the English ell being 45 inches, the Dutch or Flemish ell 27, the Scotch about 37. 

ELL:  See L. 

ELLACHICK:  A fresh-water tortoise (Chelopus marmoratus) of California; -- used as food. 

ELLAGIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, gallnuts or gallic acid; as, ellagic acid. Ellagic acid (Chem.), a white crystalline substance, C14H8O9, found in bezoar stones, and obtained by the oxidation of gallic acid. 

ELLEBORE:  Hellebore. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ELLEBORIN:  See Helleborin. 

ELLECK:  The red gurnard or cuckoo fish. [Prov. Eng.]  ELLENGE; ELLINGE; ELLENGENESS; ELLINGENESS El"lenge, El"linge, a., El"lenge*ness, El"linge*ness, n.  See Elenge, Elengeness. [Obs.] 

ELLES:  See Else. [Obs.] 

ELLIPSE:  An oval or oblong figure, bounded by a regular curve, which corresponds to an oblique projection of a circle, or an oblique section of a cone through its opposite sides. The greatest diameter of the ellipse is the major axis, and the least diameter is the minor axis. See Conic section, under Conic, and cf. Focus.  2. (Gram.)  Omission. See Ellipsis.  3. The elliptical orbit of a planet. The Sun flies forward to his brother Sun; The dark Earth follows wheeled in her ellipse. Tennyson. 

ELLIPSIS:  Omission; a figure of syntax, by which one or more words, which are obviously understood, are omitted; as, the virtues I admire, for, the virtues which I admire.  2. (Geom.)  An ellipse. [Obs.] 

ELLIPSOGRAPH:  An instrument for describing ellipses; -- called also trammel. 

ELLIPSOID:  A solid, all plane sections of which are ellipses or circles. See Conoid, n., 2 (a).  Note: The ellipsoid has three principal plane sections, a, b, and c, each at right angles to the other two, and each dividing the solid into two equal and symmetrical parts. The lines of meeting of these principal sections are the axes, or principal diameters of the ellipsoid. The point where the three planes meet is the center. Ellipsoid of revolution, a spheroid; a solid figure generated by the revolution of an ellipse about one of its axes. It is called a prolate spheroid, or prolatum, when the ellipse is revolved about the major axis, and an oblate spheroid, or oblatum, when it is revolved about the minor axis.  ELLIPSOID; ELLIPSOIDAL El*lip"soid, El`lip*soi"dal, a.  Pertaining to, or shaped like, an ellipsoid; as, ellipsoid or ellipsoidal form.  ELLIPTIC; ELLIPTICAL El*lip"tic, El*lip"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. elliptique. See Ellipsis.]  1. Of or pertaining to an ellipse; having the form of an ellipse; oblong, with rounded ends. The planets move in elliptic orbits. Cheyne.  2. Having a part omitted; as, an elliptical phrase. Elliptic chuck. See under Chuck.  -- Elliptic compasses, an instrument arranged for drawing ellipses.  -- Elliptic function. (Math.) See Function.  -- Elliptic integral. (Math.) See Integral.  -- Elliptic polarization. See under Polarization. 

ELLIPTICITY:  Deviation of an ellipse or a spheroid from the form of a circle or a sphere; especially, in reference to the figure of the earth, the difference between the equatorial and polar semidiameters, divided by the equatorial; thus, the ellipticity of the earth is  Note: Some writers use ellipticity as the ratio of the difference of the two semiaxes to the minor axis, instead of the major. Nichol.  ELLIPTIC-LANCEOLATE El*lip"tic-lan"ce*o*late, a. (Bot.)  Having a form intermediate between elliptic and lanceolate. 

ELLIPTOGRAPH:  Same as Ellipsograph. 

ELLWAND:  Formerly, a measuring rod an ell long. 

ELM:  A tree of the genus Ulmus, of several species, much used as a shade tree, particularly in America. The English elm is Ulmus campestris; the common American or white elm is U. Americana; the slippery or red elm, U. fulva. Elm beetle (Zoöl.), one of several species of beetles (esp. Galeruca calmariensis), which feed on the leaves of the elm.  -- Elm borer (Zoöl.), one of several species of beetles of which the larvæ bore into the wood or under the bark of the elm (esp. Saperda tridentata).  -- Elm butterfly (Zoöl.), one of several species of butterflies, which, in the caterpillar state, feed on the leaves of the elm (esp. Vanessa antiopa and Grapta comma). See Comma butterfly, under Comma.  -- Elm moth (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of moths of which the larvæ destroy the leaves of the elm (esp. Eugonia subsignaria, called elm spanworm).  -- Elm sawfly (Zoöl.), a large sawfly (Cimbex Americana). The larva, which is white with a black dorsal stripe, feeds on the leaves of the elm. 

ELMEN:  Belonging to elms. [Obs.]  ELMO'S FIRE El"mo's fire`.  See Corposant; also Saint Elmo's Fire, under Saint. 

ELMY:  Abounding with elms. The simple spire and elmy grange. T. Warton. 

ELOCULAR:  Having but one cell, or cavity; not divided by a septum or partition. 

ELOCUTIONARY:  Pertaining to elocution. 

ELOCUTIONIST:  One who is versed in elocution; a teacher of elocution. 

ELOCUTIVE:  Pertaining to oratorical expression. [Obs.] Feltham. 

ELODIAN:  One of a tribe of tortoises, including the terrapins, etc., in which the head and neck can be withdrawn. 

ELOGE:  A panegyrical funeral oration. 

ELOGIST:  One who pronounces an éloge.  ELOGIUM; ELOGY E*lo"gi*um, El"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. elogium a short saying, an inscription, fr. Gr. .]  The praise bestowed on a person or thing; panegyric; eulogy. 

ELOHIM:  One of the principal names by which God is designated in the Hebrew Scriptures. 

ELOHIST:  The writer, or one of the writers, of the passages of the Old Testament, notably those of Elohim instead of Jehovah, as the name of the Supreme Being; -- distinguished from Jehovist. S. Davidson. 

ELOHISTIC:  Relating to Elohim as a name of God; -- said of passages in the Old Testament. 

ELOIGN:  To convey to a distance, or beyond the jurisdiction, or to conceal, as goods liable to distress. The sheriff may return that the goods or beasts are eloigned. Blackstone. 

ELOIGNATE:  To remove. [Obs.] Howell. 

ELOIGNMENT:  Removal to a distance; withdrawal. [Obs.] 

ELOIN:  See Eloign. 

ELOINATE:  See Eloignate. 

ELOINMENT:  See Eloignment. 

ELONGATE:  To depart to, or be at, a distance; esp., to recede apparently from the sun, as a planet in its orbit. [R.] 

ELONGATE:  Drawn out at length; elongated; as, an elongate leaf. "An elongate form." Earle. 

ELONGATION:  The angular distance of a planet from the sun; as, the elongation of Venus or Mercury. 

ELOPE:  To run away, or escape privately, from the place or station to which one is bound by duty; -- said especially of a woman or a man, either married or unmarried, who runs away with a paramour or a sweetheart. Great numbers of them [the women] have eloped from their allegiance. Addison. 

ELOPEMENT:  The act of eloping; secret departure; -- said of a woman and a man, one or both, who run away from their homes for marriage or for cohabitation. 

ELOPER:  One who elopes. 

ELOPS:  A genus of fishes. See Saury.  2. A mythical serpent. [Obs.] Milton. 

ELOQUENTLY:  In an eloquent manner.  ELRICH; ELRITCH El"rich or El"ritch, a.  Ghastly; preternatural. Same as Eldritch. [Scot. & Local, Eng.] 

ELSE:  Other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming What else shall I give Do you expect anything else "Bastards and else." Shak.  Note: This word always follows its noun. It is usual to give the possessive form to else rather than to the substantive; as, somebody else's; no one else's. "A boy who is fond of somebody else's pencil case." G. Eliot. "A suit of clothes like everybody else's." Thackeray. 

ELSEWHITHER:  To some, or any, other place; as, you will have to go elsewhither for it. R. of Gloucester."For elsewhither was I bound." Carlyle. 

ELSEWISE:  Otherwise. [R.] 

ELSIN:  A shoemaker's awl. [Prov. Eng.] 

ELUCIDATE:  To make clear or manifest; to render more intelligible; to illustrate; as, an example will elucidate the subject. 

ELUCIDATION:  A making clear; the act of elucidating or that which elucidates, as an explanation, an exposition, an illustration; as, one example may serve for further elucidation of the subject. 

ELUCIDATIVE:  Making clear; tending to elucidate; as, an elucidative note. 

ELUCIDATOR:  One who explains or elucidates; an expositor. 

ELUCIDATORY:  Tending to elucidate; elucidative. [R.] 

ELUCTATE:  To struggle out; -- with out. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket. 

ELUCTATION:  A struggling out of any difficulty. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ELUCUBRATE:  See Lucubrate. [Obs.] Blount. 

ELUCUBRATION:  See Lucubration. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

ELUDE:  To avoid slyly, by artifice, stratagem, or dexterity; to escape from in a covert manner; to mock by an unexpected escape; to baffle; as, to elude an officer; to elude detection, inquiry, search, comprehension; to elude the force of an argument or a blow. Me gentle Delia beckons from the plain, Then, hid in shades, eludes he eager swain. Pope. The transition from fetichism to polytheism seems a gradual process of which the stages elude close definition. Tylor.  Syn.  -- To evade; avoid; escape; shun; eschew; flee; mock; baffle; frustrate; foil. 

ELUDIBLE:  Capable of being eluded; evadible. 

ELUL:  The sixth month of the Jewish year, by the sacred reckoning, or the twelfth, by the civil reckoning, corresponding nearly to the month of September. 

ELUMBATED:  Weak or lame in the loins. [Obs.] 

ELUSION:  Act of eluding; adroit escape, as by artifice; a mockery; a cheat; trickery. 

ELUSIVE:  Tending to elude; using arts or deception to escape; adroitly escaping or evading; eluding the grasp; fallacious. Elusive of the bridal day, she gives Fond hopes to all, and all with hopes deceives. Pope. -- E*lu"sive*ly, adv.  -- E*lu"sive*ness, n. 

ELUSORY:  Tending to elude or deceive; evasive; fraudulent; fallacious; deceitful; deceptive.  -- E*lu"so*ri*ness, n. 

ELUTE:  To wash out. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

ELUTRIATE:  To wash or strain out so as to purify; as, to elutriate the blood as it passes through the lungs; to strain off or decant, as a powder which is separated from heavier particles by being drawn off with water; to cleanse, as by washing. 

ELUTRIATION:  The process of elutriating; a decanting or racking off by means of water, as finer particles from heavier. 

ELUXATE:  To dislocate; to luxate. 

ELUXATION:  Dislocation; luxation. 

ELVAN:  Of or pertaining to certain veins of feldspathic or porphyritic rock crossing metalliferous veins in the mining districts of Cornwall; as, an elvan course.  ELVAN; ELVANITE Elv"an, Elv"an*ite, n.  The rock of an elvan vein, or the elvan vein itself; an elvan course. 

ELVE:  An old form of Elf. 

ELVER:  A young eel; a young conger or sea eel; -- called also elvene. 

ELVES:  pl. of Elf. 

ELVISHLY:  In an elvish manner. Sir W. Scott. 

ELWAND:  See Ellwand. 

ELYSIAN:  Pertaining, or the abode of the blessed after death; hence, yielding the highest pleasures; exceedingly delightful; beatific. "Elysian shades." Massinger. "Elysian age." Beattie. This life of mortal breath Is but a suburb of the life elysian. Longfellow. 

ELYTRIFORM:  Having the form, or structure, of an elytron. 

ELYTRIN:  See Chitin. 

ELYTROID:  Resembling a beetle's wing case.  ELYTRON; ELYTRUM El"y*tron, El"y*trum (-tr n.; pl. Elytra. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) (a) One of the anterior pair of wings in the Coleoptera and some other insects, when they are thick and serve only as a protection for the posterior pair. See Coleoptera. (b) One of the shieldlike dorsal scales of certain annelids. See Chætopoda. 

ELZEVIR:  Applied to books or editions (esp. of the Greek New Testament and the classics) printed and published by the Elzevir family at Amsterdam, Leyden, etc., from about 1592 to 1680; also, applied to a round open type introduced by them. The Elzevir editions are valued for their neatness, and the elegant small types used. Brande & C.  'EM 'Em.  An obsolete or colloquial contraction of the old form hem, them. Addison. 

EM:  The portion of a line formerly occupied by the letter m, then a square type, used as a unit by which to measure the amount of printed matter on a page; the square of the body of a type.  EM- Em-.  A prefix. See En-. 

EMACERATE:  To make lean or to become lean; to emaciate. [Obs.] Bullokar. 

EMACERATION:  Emaciation. [Obs.] 

EMACIATE:  To lose flesh gradually and become very lean; to waste away in flesh. "He emaciated and pined away." Sir T. Browne. 

EMACIATE:  To cause to waste away in flesh and become very lean; as, his sickness emaciated him. 

EMACIATE:  Emaciated. "Emaciate steeds." T. Warton. 

EMACULATE:  To clear from spots or stains, or from any imperfection. [Obs.] Hales. 

EMACULATION:  The act of clearing from spots. [Obs.] Johnson.  EMAIL OMBRANT; AEMAIL OMBRANT E`mail` om`brant", Æ`mail` om`brant". Etym: [F., shaded enamel.] (Fine Arts)  An art or process of flooding transparent colored glaze over designs stamped or molded on earthenware or porcelain. Ure. 

EMANANT:  Issuing or flowing forth; emanating; passing forth into an act, or making itself apparent by an effect; -- said of mental acts; as, an emanant volition. 

EMANATE:  Issuing forth; emanant. [R.] 

EMANATIVE:  Issuing forth; effluent. 

EMANATIVELY:  By an emanation. 

EMANATORY:  Emanative; of the nature of an emanation. Dr. H. More. 

EMANCIPATE:  To set free from the power of another; to liberate; as: (a) To set free, as a minor from a parent; as, a father may emancipate a child. (b) To set free from bondage; to give freedom to; to manumit; as, to emancipate a slave, or a country. Brasidas . . . declaring that he was sent to emancipate Hellas. Jowett (Thucyd. ).  (c) To free from any controlling influence, especially from anything which exerts undue or evil influence; as, to emancipate one from prejudices or error. From how many troublesome and slavish impertinences . . . he had emancipated and freed himself. Evelyn. To emancipate the human conscience. A. W. Ward. 

EMANCIPATE:  Set at liberty. 

EMANCIPATION:  The act of setting free from the power of another, from slavery, subjection, dependence, or controlling influence; also, the state of being thus set free; liberation; as, the emancipation of slaves; the emancipation of minors; the emancipation of a person from prejudices; the emancipation of the mind from superstition; the emancipation of a nation from tyranny or subjection.  Syn.  -- Deliverance; liberation; release; freedom; manumission; enfranchisement. 

EMANCIPATIONIST:  An advocate of emancipation, esp. the emancipation of slaves. 

EMANCIPATOR:  One who emancipates. 

EMANCIPATORY:  Pertaining to emancipation, or tending to effect emancipation. "Emancipatory laws." G. Eliot. 

EMANCIPIST:  A freed convict. [Australia] 

EMARGINATE:  To take away the margin of.  EMARGINATE; EMARGINATED E*mar"gi*nate, E*mar"gi*na`ted, a.  1. Having the margin interrupted by a notch or shallow sinus.  2. (Bot.)  Notched at the summit.  3. (Cryst.)  Having the edges truncated. 

EMARGINATELY:  In an emarginate manner. 

EMARGINATION:  The act of notching or indenting the margin, or the state of being so notched; also, a notch or shallow sinus in a margin. 

EMASCULATE:  Deprived of virility or vigor; unmanned; weak. "Emasculate slave." Hammond. 

EMASCULATOR:  One who, or that which, emasculates. 

EMASCULATORY:  Serving or tending to emasculate. 

EMBACE:  See Embase. [Obs.] 

EMBALL:  To encircle or embrace. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

EMBALMER:  One who embalms. 

EMBALMMENT:  The act of embalming. [R.] Malone. 

EMBANK:  To throw up a bank so as to confine or to defend; to protect by a bank of earth or stone. 

EMBARCATION:  Same as Embarkation. 

EMBARGE:  To put in a barge. [Poetic] Drayton. 

EMBARGO:  An edict or order of the government prohibiting the departure of ships of commerce from some or all of the ports within its dominions; a prohibition to sail.  Note: If the embargo is laid on an enemy's ships, it is called a hostile embargo; if on the ships belonging to citizens of the embargoing state, it is called a civil embargo. 

EMBARGO:  To lay an embargo on and thus detain; to prohibit from leaving port; -- said of ships, also of commerce and goods. 

EMBARKMENT:  Embarkation. [R.] Middleton. 

EMBARRASS:  To involve in difficulties concerning money matters; to incumber with debt; to beset with urgent claims or demands; -- said of a person or his affairs; as, a man or his business is embarrassed when he can not meet his pecuniary engagements.  Syn.  -- To hinder; perplex; entangle; confuse; puzzle; disconcert; abash; distress.  -- To Embarrass, Puzzle, Perplex. We are puzzled when our faculties are confused by something we do not understand. We are perplexed when our feelings, as well as judgment, are so affected that we know not how to decide or act. We are embarrassed when there is some bar or hindrance upon us which impedes our powers of thought, speech, or motion. A schoolboy is puzzled by a difficult sum; a reasoner is perplexed by the subtleties of his opponent; a youth is sometimes so embarrassed before strangers as to lose his presence of mind. 

EMBARRASS:  Embarrassment. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton. 

EMBASE:  To bring down or lower, as in position, value, etc.; to debase; to degrade; to deteriorate. [Obs.] Embased the valleys, and embossed the hills. Sylvester. Alloy in coin of gold . . . may make the metal work the better, but it embaseth it. Bacon. Such pitiful embellishments of speech as serve for nothing but to embase divinity. South. 

EMBASEMENT:  Act of bringing down; depravation; deterioration. South. 

EMBASSADE:  An embassy. See Ambassade. [Obs.] Shak. 

EMBASSADOR:  Same as Ambassador. Stilbon, that was a wise embassadour, Was sent to Corinth. Chaucer. Myself my king's embassador will go. Dryden. 

EMBASSADORIAL:  Same as Ambassadorial. 

EMBASSADRESS:  Same as Ambassadress. 

EMBASSADRY:  Embassy. [Obs.] Leland. 

EMBASTARDIZE:  To bastardize. [Obs.] 

EMBATHE:  To bathe; to imbathe. 

EMBATTAIL:  To furnish with battlements; to fortify as with battlements. [Archaic] To embattail and to wall about thy cause With iron-worded proof. Tennyson. 

EMBATTLE:  To arrange in order of battle; to array for battle; also, to prepare or arm for battle; to equip as for battle. One in bright arms embattled full strong. Spenser. Here once the embattled farmers stood And fired the shot heard round the world. Emerson. 

EMBATTLE:  To be arrayed for battle. [Obs.] 

EMBATTLE:  To furnish with battlements. "Embattled house." Wordsworth. 

EMBATTLED:  Having the edge broken like battlements; -- said of a bearing such as a fess, bend, or the like.  3. Having been the place of battle; as, an embattled plain or field. J. Baillie. 

EMBAY:  To bathe; to soothe or lull as by bathing. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMBAY:  To shut in, or shelter, as in a bay. If that the Turkish fleet Be not ensheltered and embayed, they are drowned. Shak. 

EMBAYMENT:  A bay. [R.] The embayment which is terminated by the land of North Berwick. Sir W. Scott. 

EMBEAM:  To make brilliant with beams. [R.] G. Fletcher. 

EMBED:  To lay as in a bed; to lay in surrounding matter; to bed; as, to embed a thing in clay, mortar, or sand. 

EMBEDMENT:  The act of embedding, or the state of being embedded. 

EMBELLISH:  To make beautiful or elegant by ornaments; to decorate; to adorn; as, to embellish a book with pictures, a garden with shrubs and flowers, a narrative with striking anecdotes, or style with metaphors.  Syn.  -- To adorn; beautify; deck; bedeck; decorate; garnish; enrich; ornament; illustrate. See Adorn. 

EMBELLISHER:  One who embellishes. 

EMBER:  A lighted coal, smoldering amid ashes; -- used chiefly in the plural, to signify mingled coals and ashes; the smoldering remains of a fire. "He rakes hot embers." Dryden. He takes a lighted ember out of the covered vessel. Colebrooke. 

EMBER:  Making a circuit of the year of the seasons; recurring in each quarter of the year; as, ember fasts.  Ember days (R. C. & Eng. Ch.), days set apart for fasting and prayer in each of the four seasons of the year. The Council of Placentia [A. D. 1095] appointed for ember days the Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday after the first Sunday in Lent, Whitsuntide, the 14th of September, and the 13th of December. The weeks in which these days fall are called ember weeks.  EMBER-GOOSE Em"ber-goose`, n. Etym: [Cf. Norw. ember, hav-imber, hav-immer, Icel. himbrin, himbrimi.] (Zoöl.)  The loon or great northern diver. See Loon. [Written also emmer-goose and imber-goose.] 

EMBERINGS:  Ember days. [Obs.] 

EMBERIZIDAE:  a natural subfamily including buntings and some New World sparrows. Syn. -- subfamily Emberizidae, subfamily Emberizinae. [WordNet 1.5] 

EMBETTER:  To make better. [Obs.] 

EMBEZZLEMENT:  The fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom it has been intrusted; as, the embezzlement by a clerk of his employer's; embezzlement of public funds by the public officer having them in charge.  Note: Larceny denotes a taking, by fraud or stealth, from another's possession; embezzlement denotes an appropriation, by fraud or stealth, of property already in the wrongdoer's possession. In England and in most of the United States embezzlement is made indictable by statute. 

EMBEZZLER:  One who embezzles. 

EMBILLOW:  To swell or heave like a [R.] Lisle. 

EMBIOTOCOID:  Belonging to, or resembling, the Embiotocidæ.  -- n.  One of a family of fishes (Embiotocidæ) abundant on the coast of California, remarkable for being viviparous; -- also called surf fishes and viviparous fishes. See Illust. in Append. 

EMBITTER:  To make bitter or sad. See Imbitter. 

EMBITTERMENT:  The act of embittering; also, that which embitters. 

EMBLANCH:  To whiten. See Blanch. [Obs.] Heylin. 

EMBLAZONER:  One who emblazons; also, one who publishes and displays anything with pomp. 

EMBLAZONING:  The act or art of heraldic decoration; delineation of armorial bearings. 

EMBLAZONMENT:  An emblazoning. 

EMBLAZONRY:  The act or art of an emblazoner; heraldic or ornamental decoration, as pictures or figures on shields, standards, etc.; emblazonment. Thine ancient standard's rich emblazonry. Trench. 

EMBLEM:  To represent by an emblem; to symbolize. [R.] Emblemed by the cozening fig tree. Feltham.  EMBLEMATIC; EMBLEMATICAL Em`blem*at"ic, Em`blem*at"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. emblématique.]  Pertaining to, containing, or consisting in, an emblem; symbolic; typically representative; representing as an emblem; as, emblematic language or ornaments; a crown is emblematic of royalty; white is emblematic of purity.  -- Em`blem*at"ic*al*ly, adv. 

EMBLEMATICCIZE:  To render emblematic; as, to emblematicize a picture. [R.] Walpole. 

EMBLEMATIST:  A writer or inventor of emblems. Sir T. Browne. 

EMBLEMATIZE:  To represent by, or as by, an emblem; to symbolize. Anciently the sun was commonly emblematized by a starry or radiate figure. Bp. Hurd. 

EMBLEMENT:  The growing crop, or profits of a crop which has been sown or planted; -- used especially in the plural. The produce of grass, trees, and the like, is not emblement. Wharton's Law Dict. 

EMBLEMIZE:  To represent by an emblem; to emblematize. [R.] 

EMBLOOM:  To emblossom. Savage. 

EMBLOSSOM:  To cover or adorn with blossoms. On the white emblossomed spray. J. Cunningham. 

EMBODIER:  One who embodies. 

EMBODY:  To form into a body; to invest with a body; to collect into a body, a united mass, or a whole; to incorporate; as, to embody one's ideas in a treatise. [Written also imbody.] Devils embodied and disembodied. Sir W. Scott. The soul, while it is embodied, can no more be divided from sin. South. 

EMBODY:  To unite in a body, a mass, or a collection; to coalesce. [Written also imbody.] Firmly to embody against this court party. Burke. 

EMBOGUE:  To disembogue; to discharge, as a river, its waters into the sea or another river. [R.] 

EMBOGUING:  The mouth of a river, or place where its waters are discharged. [R.] 

EMBOIL:  To boil with anger; to effervesce. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMBOIL:  To cause to boil with anger; to irritate; to chafe. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMBOITEMENT:  The hypothesis that all living things proceed from preëxisting germs, and that these encase the germs of all future living things, inclosed one within another. Buffon. 

EMBOLDEN:  To give boldness or courage to; to encourage. Shak. The self-conceit which emboldened him to undertake this dangerous office. Sir W. Scott. 

EMBOLDENER:  One who emboldens. 

EMBOLIC:  Pertaining to an embolism; produced by an embolism; as, an embolic abscess.  3. (Biol.)  Pushing or growing in; -- said of a kind of invagination. See under Invagination. 

EMBOLISM:  The occlusion of a blood vessel by an embolus. Embolism in the brain often produces sudden unconsciousness and paralysis. 

EMBOLISMAL:  Pertaining to embolism; intercalary; as, embolismal months.  EMBOLISMATIC; EMBOLISMATICAL Em`bo*lis*mat"ic, Em`bo*lis*mat"ic*al, a.  Embolismic.  EMBOLISMIC; EMBOLISMICAL Em`bo*lis"mic, Em`bo*lis"mic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. embolismique.]  Pertaining to embolism or intercalation; intercalated; as, an embolismic year, i. e., the year in which there is intercalation. 

EMBOLITE:  A mineral consisting of both the chloride and the bromide of silver. 

EMBOLUS:  A plug of some substance lodged in a blood vessel, being brought thither by the blood current. It consists most frequently of a clot of fibrin, a detached shred of a morbid growth, a globule of fat, or a microscopic organism. 

EMBOLY:  Embolic invagination. See under Invagination. 

EMBONPOINT:  Plumpness of person; -- said especially of persons somewhat corpulent. 

EMBORDER:  To furnish or adorn with a border; to imborder. 

EMBOSS:  To make to foam at the mouth, like a hunted animal. [Obs.] 

EMBOSS:  To seek the bushy forest; to hide in the woods. [Obs.] S. Butler. 

EMBOSSER:  One who embosses. 

EMBOTTLE:  To bottle. [R.] Phillips. 

EMBOW:  To bend like a bow; to curve. "Embowed arches." [Obs. or R.] Sir W. Scott. With gilded horns embowed like the moon. Spenser. 

EMBOWELER:  One who takes out the bowels. [Written also emboweller.] 

EMBOWELMENT:  Disembowelment. 

EMBOWER:  To cover with a bower; to shelter with trees. [Written also imbower.] [Poetic] Milton.  -- v. i.  To lodge or rest in a bower. [Poetic] "In their wide boughs embow'ring. " Spenser. 

EMBOWL:  To form like a bowl; to give a globular shape to. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

EMBOX:  To inclose, as in a box; to imbox. 

EMBOYSSEMENT:  An ambush. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EMBRACE:  To fasten on, as armor. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMBRACE:  To attempt to influence corruptly, as a jury or court. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- To clasp; hug; inclose; encompass; include; 

EMBRACE:  To join in an embrace. 

EMBRACE:  Intimate or close encircling with the arms; pressure to the bosom; clasp; hug. We stood tranced in long embraces, Mixed with kisses. Tennyson. 

EMBRACEOR:  One guilty of embracery. 

EMBRACER:  One who embraces. 

EMBRACERY:  An attempt to influence a court, jury, etc., corruptly, by promises, entreaties, money, entertainments, threats, or other improper inducements. 

EMBRACIVE:  Disposed to embrace; fond of caressing. [R.] Thackeray. 

EMBRANCHMENT:  The branching forth, as of trees. 

EMBRANGLE:  To confuse; to entangle. I am lost and embrangled in inextricable difficulties. Berkeley. 

EMBRASURE:  An embrace. [Obs.] "Our locked embrasures."" Shak. 

EMBRASURE:  A splay of a door or window. Apart, in the twilight gloom of a window's embrasure, Sat the lovers. Longfellow.  2. (Fort.)  An aperture with slant sides in a wall or parapet, through which cannon are pointed and discharged; a crenelle. See Illust. of Casemate. 

EMBRAWN:  To harden. [Obs.] It will embrawn and iron-crust his flesh. Nash. 

EMBREAD:  To braid. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMBREATHEMENT:  The act of breathing in; inspiration. [R.] The special and immediate suggestion, embreathement, and dictation of the Holy Ghost. W. Lee. 

EMBREW:  To imbrue; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMBRIGHT:  To brighten. [Obs.] 

EMBROCATE:  To moisten and rub (a diseased part) with a liquid substance, as with spirit, oil, etc., by means of a cloth or sponge. 

EMBROGLIO:  See Imbroglio. 

EMBROIDER:  To ornament with needlework; as, to embroider a scarf. Thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen. Ex. xxviii. 39. 

EMBROIDERER:  One who embroiders. 

EMBROIL:  See Embroilment. 

EMBROILER:  One who embroils. 

EMBROILMENT:  The act of embroiling, or the condition of being embroiled; entanglement in a broil. Bp. Burnet. 

EMBROTHEL:  To inclose in a brothel. [Obs.] Donne.  EMBROUDE; EMBROWDE; EMBROYDE Em*broud"e, Em*browd"e, Em*broyd"e, v. t.  To embroider; to adorn. [Obs.] Embrowded was he, as it were a mead All full of fresshe flowers, white and red. Chaucer. 

EMBROWN:  To give a brown color to; to imbrown. Summer suns embrown the laboring swain. Fenton. 

EMBRUE:  See Imbrue, Embrew. [Obs.] 

EMBRUTE:  To brutify; to imbrute. All the man embruted in the swine. Cawthorn. 

EMBRYO:  The first rudiments of an organism, whether animal or plant; as: (a) The young of an animal in the womb, or more specifically, before its parts are developed and it becomes a fetus (see Fetus). (b) The germ of the plant, which is inclosed in the seed and which is developed by germination. In embryo, in an incipient or undeveloped state; in conception, but not yet executed. "The company little suspected what a noble work I had then in embryo." Swift. 

EMBRYO:  Pertaining to an embryo; rudimentary; undeveloped; as, an embryo bud. 

EMBRYOGENIC:  Pertaining to the development of an embryo. 

EMBRYOGENY:  The production and development of an embryo. 

EMBRYOGONY:  The formation of an embryo. 

EMBRYOGRAPHY:  The general description of embryos.  EMBRYOLOGIC; EMBRYOLOGICAL Em`bry*o*log"ic, Em`bry*o*log"ic*al, a. (Biol.)  Of or pertaining to embryology. 

EMBRYOLOGIST:  One skilled in embryology. 

EMBRYOLOGY:  The science which relates to the formation and development of the embryo in animals and plants; a study of the gradual development of the ovum until it reaches the adult stage. 

EMBRYON:  See Embryo. 

EMBRYONAL:  Pertaining to an embryo, or the initial state of any organ; embryonic. 

EMBRYONARY:  Embryonic.  EMBRYONATE; EMBRYONATED Em"bry*o*nate, Em"bry*o*na`ted, a. (Biol.)  In the state of, or having, an embryonal. 

EMBRYONIC:  Of or pertaining to an embryo; embryonal; rudimentary. Embryonic sac or vesicle (Bot.), the vesicle within which the embryo is developed in the ovule; -- sometimes called also amnios sac, and embryonal sac. 

EMBRYONIFEROUS:  Having an embryo. 

EMBRYONIFORM:  Like an embryo in form. 

EMBRYOPLASTIC:  Relating to, or aiding in, the formation of an embryo; as, embryoplastic cells.  EMBRYO SAC Em"bry*o sac`. (Bot.)  See under Embryonic. 

EMBRYOTIC:  Embryonic. 

EMBRYOTOMY:  The cutting a fetus into pieces within the womb, so as to effect its removal. 

EMBRYOTROPH:  The material from which an embryo is formed and nourished. 

EMBRYOUS:  Embryonic; undeveloped. [R.] 

EMBULK:  To enlarge in the way of bulk. [R.] Latham. 

EMBURSE:  To furnish with money; to imburse. [Obs.] 

EMBUSH:  To place or hide in a thicket; to ambush. [Obs.] Shelton. 

EMBUSHMENT:  An ambush. [Obs.] 

EMBUSY:  To employ. [Obs.] Skelton. 

EME:  An uncle. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMEER:  Same as Emir. 

EMENAGOGUE:  See Emmenagogue. 

EMEND:  To purge of faults; to make better; to correct; esp., to make corrections in (a literary work); to alter for the better by textual criticism, generally verbal.  Syn.  -- To amend; correct; improve; better; reform; rectify. See Amend. 

EMENDABLE:  Corrigible; amendable. [R.] Bailey. 

EMENDATELY:  Without fault; correctly. [Obs.] 

EMENDATOR:  One who emends or critically edits. 

EMENDATORY:  Pertaining to emendation; corrective. "Emendatory criticism."" Johnson. 

EMENDER:  One who emends. 

EMENDICATE:  To beg. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EMERALD:  A precious stone of a rich green color, a variety of beryl. See Beryl.  2. (Print.)  A kind of type, in size between minion and nonpare  Note: * This line is printed in the type called emerald. 

EMERALD:  Of a rich green color, like that of the emerald. "Emerald meadows." Byron. Emerald fish (Zoöl.), a fish of the Gulf of Mexico (Gobionellus oceanicus), remarkable for the brilliant green and blue color of the base of the tongue; -- whence the name; -- called also esmeralda.  -- Emerald green, a very durable pigment, of a vivid light green color, made from the arseniate of copper; green bice; Scheele's green; -- also used adjectively; as, emerald green crystals.  -- Emerald Isle, a name given to Ireland on account of the brightness of its verdure.  -- Emerald spodumene, or Lithia emerald. (Min.) See Hiddenite.  -- Emerald nickel. (Min.) See Zaratite. 

EMERALDINE:  A green compound used as a dyestuff, produced from aniline blue when acted upon by acid. 

EMERAUD:  An emerald. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMERGE:  To rise out of a fluid; to come forth from that in which anything has been plunged, enveloped, or concealed; to issue and appear; as, to emerge from the water or the ocean; the sun emerges from behind the moon in an eclipse; to emerge from poverty or obscurity. "Thetis . . . emerging from the deep." Dryden. Those who have emerged from very low, some from the lowest, classes of society. Burke. 

EMERGENCE:  The act of rising out of a fluid, or coming forth from envelopment or concealment, or of rising into view; sudden uprisal or appearance. The white color of all refracted light, at its very first emergence . . . is compounded of various colors. Sir I. Newton. When from the deep thy bright emergence sprung. H. Brooke. 

EMERITED:  Considered as having done sufficient public service, and therefore honorably discharged. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

EMERITUS:  Honorably discharged from the performance of public duty on account of age, infirmity, or long and faithful services; -- said of an officer of a college or pastor of a church. 

EMERITUS:  A veteran who has honorably completed his service.  EMERODS; EMEROIDS Em"er*ods, Em"er*oids, n. pl. Etym: [OF. emmeroides. See Hemorrhoids.]  Hemorrhoids; piles; tumors; boils. [R.] Deut. xxviii. 27. 

EMERSED:  Standing out of, or rising above, water. Gray. 

EMERSION:  The reappearance of a heavenly body after an eclipse or occultation; as, the emersion of the moon from the shadow of the earth; the emersion of a star from behind the moon. 

EMERY:  Corundum in the form of grains or powder, used in the arts for grinding and polishing hard substances. Native emery is mixed with more or less magnetic iron. See the Note under Corundum. Emery board, cardboard pulp mixed with emery and molded into convenient.  -- Emery cloth or paper, cloth or paper on which the powder of emery is spread and glued for scouring and polishing.  -- Emery wheel, a wheel containing emery, or having a surface of emery. In machine shops, it is sometimes called a buff wheel, and by the manufacturers of cutlery, a glazer. 

EMESIS:  A vomiting. 

EMETIC:  Inducing to vomit; exciting the stomach to discharge its contents by the mouth.  -- n.  A medicine which causes vomiting. 

EMETICAL:  Inducing to vomit; producing vomiting; emetic.  -- E*met"ic*al*ly, adv. 

EMETINE:  A white crystalline bitter alkaloid extracted from ipecacuanha root, and regarded as its peculiar emetic principle.  EMETO-CATHARTIC Em`e*to-ca*thar"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. cathartic.] (Med.)  Producing vomiting and purging at the same time.  EMEU; EMEW E"meu, or E"mew, n. (Zoöl.)  See Emu. 

EMEUTE:  A seditious tumult; an outbreak.  E. M. F. E. M. F. (Physics)  An abbreviation for electro-motive force. 

EMFORTH:  According to; conformably to. [Obs.] Chaucer. Emforth my might, so far as lies in my power. [Obs.] 

EMGALLA:  The South African wart hog. See Wart hog. 

EMICANT:  Beaming forth; flashing. [R.] Which emicant did this and that way dart. Blackmore. 

EMICATION:  A flying off in small particles, as heated iron or fermenting liquors; a sparkling; scintillation. Sir T. Browne. 

EMICTORY:  Diuretic. 

EMIGRANT:  One who emigrates, or quits one country or region to settle in another.  Syn.  -- Emigrant, Immigrant. Emigrant and emigration have reference to the country from which the migration is made; the correlative words immigrant and immigration have reference to the country into which the migration is made, the former marking the going out from a country, the latter the coming into it. 

EMIGRATE:  To remove from one country or State to another, for the purpose of residence; to migrate from home. Forced to emigrate in a body to America. Macaulay. They [the Huns] were emigrating from Tartary into Europe in the time of the Goths. J. H. Newman. 

EMIGRATE:  Migratory; roving. [Obs.] 

EMIGRATIONAL:  Relating to emigration. 

EMIGRATIONIST:  An advocate or promoter of emigration. 

EMIGRATOR:  One who emigrates; am emigrant. [R.] 

EMIGRE:  One of the natives of France who were opposed to the first Revolution, and who left their country in consequence. 

EMINENCY:  State of being eminent; eminence. "Eminency of estate." Tillotson. 

EMINENTLY:  In an eminent manner; in a high degree; conspicuously; as, to be eminently learned.  EMIR; EMEER E"mir, E*meer", n. Etym: [Ar. emir, amir, commander: cf. F. émir. Cf. Admiral, Ameer.]  An Arabian military commander, independent chieftain, or ruler of a province; also, an honorary title given to the descendants of Mohammed, in the line of his daughter Fatima; among the Turks, likewise, a title of dignity, given to certain high officials.  EMIRSHIP; EMEERSHIP E`mir*ship, E*meer"ship, n.  The rank or office of an Emir. 

EMISSARY:  An agent employed to advance, in a covert manner, the interests of his employers; one sent out by any power that is at war with another, to create dissatisfaction among the people of the latter. Buzzing emissaries fill the ears Of listening crowds with jealousies and fears. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Emissary, Spy. A spy is one who enters an enemy's camp or territories to learn the condition of the enemy; an emissary may be a secret agent appointed not only to detect the schemes of an opposing party, but to influence their councils. A spy must be concealed, or he suffers death; an emissary may in some cases be known as the agent of an adversary without incurring similar hazard. 

EMISSARY:  Applied to the veins which pass out of the cranium through apertures in its walls. 

EMISSARYSHIP:  The office of an emissary. 

EMISSITIOUS:  Looking, or narrowly examining; prying. [Obs.] "Those emissitious eyes." Bp. Hall. 

EMISSIVE:  Sending out; emitting; as, emissive powers. 

EMISSIVITY:  Tendency to emission; comparative facility of emission, or rate at which emission takes place, as of heat from the surface of a heated body. 

EMISSORY:  Same as Emissary, a., 2. 

EMITTENT:  Sending forth; emissive. Boyle. 

EMMANTLE:  To cover over with, or as with, a mantle; to put about as a protection. [Obs.] Holland. 

EMMANUEL:  See Immanuel. Matt. i. 23. 

EMMARBLE:  To turn to marble; to harden. [Obs.] Thou dost emmarble the proud heart. Spenser. 

EMMENAGOGUE:  A medicine that promotes the menstrual discharge. 

EMMET:  An ant. Emmet hunter (Zoöl.), the wryneck. 

EMMETROPIA:  That refractive condition of the eye in which the rays of light are all brought accurately and without undue effort to a focus upon the retina; -- opposed to hypermetropia, myopia, an astigmatism. 

EMMETROPIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, emmetropia. The normal or emmetropic eye adjusts itself perfectly for all distances. J. Le Conte. 

EMMETROPY:  Same as Emmetropia. 

EMMEW:  To mew or coop up. [Obs.] Shak. 

EMMOVE:  To move; to rouse; to excite. [Obs.] 

EMODIN:  An orange-red crystalline substance, C15H10O5, obtained from the buckthorn, rhubarb, etc., and regarded as a derivative of anthraquinone; -- so called from a species of rhubarb (Rheum emodei). 

EMOLLESCENCE:  That degree of softness in a body beginning to melt which alters its shape; the first or lowest degree of fusibility. 

EMOLLIATE:  To soften; to render effeminate. Emolliated by four centuries of Roman domination, the Belgic colonies had forgotten their pristine valor. Pinkerton. 

EMOLLIENT:  Softening; making supple; acting as an emollient. "Emollient applications." Arbuthnot. 

EMOLLIENT:  An external something or soothing application to allay irritation, soreness, etc. 

EMOLLITION:  The act of softening or relaxing; relaxation. Bacon. 

EMOLUMENT:  The profit arising from office, employment, or labor; gain; compensation; advantage; perquisites, fees, or salary. A long . . . enjoyment of the emoluments of office. Bancroft. 

EMOLUMENTAL:  Pertaining to an emolument; profitable. [R.] Evelyn.  EMONG; EMONGST E*mong", E*mongst"  , (prep. Among. [Obs.] 

EMOTION:  A moving of the mind or soul; excitement of the feelings, whether pleasing or painful; disturbance or agitation of mind caused by a specific exciting cause and manifested by some sensible effect on the body. How different the emotions between departure and return! W. Irving. Some vague emotion of delight. Tennyson.  Syn.  -- Feeling; agitation; tremor; trepidation; perturbation; passion; excitement.  -- Emotion, Feeling, Agitation. Feeling is the weaker term, and may be of the body or the mind. Emotion is of the mind alone, being the excited action of some inward susceptibility or feeling; as, an emotion of pity, terror, etc. Agitation may the bodily or mental, and usually arises in the latter case from a vehement struggle between contending desires or emotions. See Passion. "Agitations have but one character, viz., that of violence; emotions vary with the objects that awaken them. There are emotions either of tenderness or anger, either gentle or strong, either painful or pleasing." Crabb. 

EMOTIONAL:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, emotion; excitable; easily moved; sensational; as, an emotional nature. 

EMOTIONALISM:  The cultivation of an emotional state of mind; tendency to regard things in an emotional manner. 

EMOTIONALIZE:  To give an emotional character to. Brought up in a pious family where religion was not talked about emotionalized, but was accepted as the rule of thought and conduct. Froude. 

EMOTIONED:  Affected with emotion. [R.] "The emotioned soul." Sir W. Scott. 

EMOTIVE:  Attended by, or having the character of, emotion. H. Brooke.  -- E*mo"tive*ly, adv. 

EMOTIVENESS:  Susceptibility to emotion. G. Eliot. 

EMOTIVITY:  Emotiveness. Hickok. 

EMOVE:  To move. [Obs.] Thomson. 

EMPAIR:  To impair. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMPAISTIC:  Having to do with inlaid work; -- especially used with reference to work of the ancient Greeks. 

EMPALE:  To make pale. [Obs.] No bloodless malady empales their face. G. Fletcher. 

EMPALE:  Same as Impale. 

EMPALEMENT:  Same as Impalement. 

EMPANEL:  A list of jurors; a panel. [Obs.] Cowell. 

EMPANEL:  See Impanel. 

EMPANOPLIED:  Completely armed; panoplied. Tennyson. 

EMPARADISE:  Same as Imparadise. 

EMPARK:  To make a park of; to inclose, as with a fence; to impark. [Obs.] 

EMPARLANCE:  Parley; imparlance. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMPASM:  A perfumed powder sprinkled upon the body to mask the odor of sweat. 

EMPASSION:  To move with passion; to affect strongly. See Impassion. [Obs.] Those sights empassion me full near. Spenser. 

EMPASSIONATE:  Strongly affected. [Obs.] The Briton Prince was sore empassionate. Spenser. 

EMPAWN:  To put in pawn; to pledge; to impawn. To sell, empawn, and alienate the estates. Milman. 

EMPEACH:  To hinder. See Impeach. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMPEARL:  To form like pearls; to decorate with, or as with, pearls; to impearl. 

EMPEOPLE:  To form into a people or community; to inhabit; to people. [Obs.] We now know 't is very well empeopled. Sir T. Browne. 

EMPERESS:  See Empress. [Obs.] 

EMPERICE:  An empress. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EMPERIL:  To put in peril. See Imperil. Spenser. 

EMPERISHED:  Perished; decayed. [Obs.] I deem thy brain emperished be. Spenser. 

EMPEROR:  The sovereign or supreme monarch of an empire; -- a title of dignity superior to that of king; as, the emperor of Germany or of Austria; the emperor or Czar of Russia. Emperor goose (Zoöl.), a large and handsome goose (Philacte canagica), found in Alaska.  -- Emperor moth (Zoöl.), one of several large and beautiful bombycid moths, with transparent spots on the wings; as the American Cecropia moth (Platysamia cecropia), and the European species (Saturnia pavonia).  -- Emperor paper. See under Paper.  -- Purple emperor (Zoöl.), a large, strong British butterfly (Apatura iris). 

EMPERORSHIP:  The rank or office of an emperor. 

EMPERY:  Empire; sovereignty; dominion. [Archaic] Shak. Struggling for my woman's empery. Mrs. Browning. 

EMPHASIS:  A particular stress of utterance, or force of voice, given in reading and speaking to one or more words whose signification the speaker intends to impress specially upon his audience. The province of emphasis is so much more important than accent, that the customary seat of the latter is changed, when the claims of emphasis require it. E. Porter.  2. A peculiar impressiveness of expression or weight of thought; vivid representation, enforcing assent; as, to dwell on a subject with great emphasis. External objects stand before us . . . in all the life and emphasis of extension, figure, and color. Sir W. Hamilton. 

EMPHASIZE:  To utter or pronounce with a particular stress of voice; to make emphatic; as, to emphasize a word or a phrase.  EMPHATIC; EMPHATICAL Em*phat"ic, Em*phat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. emphatique. See Emphasis.]  1. Uttered with emphasis; made prominent and impressive by a peculiar stress of voice; laying stress; deserving of stress or emphasis; forcible; impressive; strong; as, to remonstrate in am emphatic manner; an emphatic word; an emphatic tone; emphatic reasoning.  2. Striking the sense; attracting special attention; impressive; forcible. "Emphatical colors." Boyle. "Emphatical evils." Bp. Reynolds.  Syn.  -- Forcible; earnest; impressive; energetic; striking; positive; important; special; significant. 

EMPHATICALNESS:  The quality of being emphatic; emphasis. 

EMPHRACTIC:  Having the quality of closing the pores of the skin. 

EMPHRENSY:  To madden. [Obs.] 

EMPHYSEMA:  A swelling produced by gas or air diffused in the cellular tissue. Emphysema of the lungs, Pulmonary emphysema (Med.), a common disease of the lungs in which the air cells are distended and their partition walls ruptured by an abnormal pressure of the air contained in them. 

EMPHYSEMATOUS:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, emphysema; swelled; bloated. 

EMPHYTEUSIS:  A real right, susceptible of assignment and of descent, charged on productive real estate, the right being coupled with the enjoyment of the property on condition of taking care of the estate and paying taxes, and sometimes a small rent. Heumann. 

EMPHYTEUTIC:  Of or pertaining to an emphyteusis; as, emphyteutic lands. 

EMPHYTEUTICARY:  One who holds lands by emphyteusis. 

EMPIERCE:  To pierce; to impierce. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMPIGHT:  Fixed; settled; fastened. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMPIRE:  New York; -- a nickname alluding to its size and wealth.  EMPIRE STATE OF THE SOUTH Empire State of the South.  Georgia; -- a nickname.  EMPIRE STATE OF THE WEST Empire State of the West.  Missouri; -- a nickname. 

EMPIRICALLY:  By experiment or experience; without science; in the manner of quacks. 

EMPIRICISM:  The philosophical theory which attributes the origin of all our knowledge to experience. 

EMPIRICIST:  An empiric. 

EMPIRISTIC:  Relating to, or resulting from, experience, or experiment; following from empirical methods or data; -- opposed to nativistic. 

EMPLACE:  To put into place or position; to fix on an emplacement. 

EMPLACEMENT:  A putting in, or assigning to, a definite place; localization; as, the emplacement of a structure. 

EMPLASTER:  See Plaster. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

EMPLASTER:  To plaster over; to cover over so as to present a good appearance. [Obs.] "Fair as ye his name emplaster." Chaucer. 

EMPLASTIC:  Fit to be applied as a plaster; glutinous; adhesive; as, emplastic applications. 

EMPLASTIC:  A medicine causing constipation. 

EMPLASTRATION:  The application of a plaster or salve. 

EMPLEAD:  To accuse; to indict. See Implead. 

EMPLECTION:  See Emplecton. 

EMPLECTON:  A kind of masonry in which the outer faces of the wall are ashlar, the space between being filled with broken stone and mortar. Cross layers of stone are interlaid as binders. [R.] Weale. 

EMPLORE:  See Implore. [Obs.] 

EMPLOY:  That which engages or occupies a person; fixed or regular service or business; employment. The whole employ of body and of mind. Pope. In one's employ, in one's service. 

EMPLOYABLE:  Capable of being employed; capable of being used; fit or proper for use. Boyle. 

EMPLOYE:  One employed by another; a clerk or workman in the service of an employer. 

EMPLOYEE:  One employed by another. 

EMPLOYER:  One who employs another; as, an employer of workmen. 

EMPLUMED:  Plumed. [R.] 

EMPLUNGE:  To plunge; to implunge. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EMPOISON:  To poison; to impoison. Shak. 

EMPOISON:  Poison. [Obs.] Remedy of Love. 

EMPOISONER:  Poisoner. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EMPOISONMENT:  The act of poisoning. Bacon.  EMPORETIC; EMPORETICAL Em`po*ret"ic, Em`po*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. emporeticus, Gr. Emporium.]  Pertaining to an emporium; relating to merchandise. [Obs.] Johnson. 

EMPORIUM:  The brain. [Obs.] 

EMPOVERISH:  See Impoverish. 

EMPRESSEMENT:  Demonstrative warmth or cordiality of manner; display of enthusiasm.  He grasped my hand with a nervous empressement. Poe. 

EMPRINT:  See Imprint. 

EMPRISE:  To undertake. [Obs.] Sackville. 

EMPRISING:  Full of daring; adventurous. [Archaic] T. Campbell. 

EMPRISON:  See Imprison. 

EMPROSTHOTONOS:  A drawing of the body forward, in consequence of the spasmodic action of some of the muscles. Gross. 

EMPTE:  To empty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EMPTIER:  One who, or that which, empties. 

EMPTIER:  of Empty. 

EMPTION:  The act of buying. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

EMPTIONAL:  Capable of being purchased. 

EMPTY:  An empty box, crate, cask, etc.; -- used in commerce, esp. in transportation of freight; as, "special rates for empties." 

EMPTY:  To deprive of the contents; to exhaust; to make void or destitute; to make vacant; to pour out; to discharge; as, to empty a vessel; to empty a well or a cistern. The clouds . . . empty themselves upon the earth. Eccl. xi. 3. 

EMPTYING:  The lees of beer, cider, etc.; yeast. [U.S.] 

EMPUGN:  See Impugn. 

EMPURPLE:  To tinge or dye of a purple color; to color with purple; to impurple. "The deep empurpled ran." Philips. 

EMPUSE:  A phantom or specter. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

EMPUZZLE:  To puzzle. [Archaic] Sir T. Browne. 

EMPYEMA:  A collection of blood, pus, or other fluid, in some cavity of the body, especially that of the pleura. Dunglison.  Note: The term empyema is now restricted to a collection of pus in the cavity of the pleura. 

EMPYESIS:  An eruption of pustules. 

EMPYREAL:  Formed of pure fire or light; refined beyond aërial substance; pertaining to the highest and purest region of heaven. Go, soar with Plato to the empyreal sphere. Pope. Empyreal air, oxygen gas. 

EMPYREAL:  Empyrean. Mrs. Browning. 

EMPYREAN:  The highest heaven, where the pure element of fire was supposed by the ancients to subsist. The empyrean rung With hallelujahs. Milton. 

EMPYREAN:  Empyreal. Akenside. 

EMPYREUMA:  The peculiar smell and taste arising from products of decomposition of animal or vegetable substances when burnt in close vessels.  EMPYREUMATIC; EMPYREUMATICAL Em`py*reu*mat"ic, Em`py*reu*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. empyreumatique.]  Of or pertaining to empyreuma; as, an empyreumatic odor. Empyreumatic oils, oils obtained by distilling various organic substances at high temperatures. Brande & C. 

EMPYREUMATIZE:  To render empyreumatic. [R.] 

EMPYRICAL:  Containing the combustible principle of coal. Kirwan. 

EMPYROSIS:  A general fire; a conflagration. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

EMRODS:  See Emerods. [Obs.] 

EMU:  A large Australian bird, of two species (Dromaius Novæ- Hollandiæ and D. irroratus), related to the cassowary and the ostrich. The emu runs swiftly, but is unable to fly. [Written also emeu and emew.]  Note: The name is sometimes erroneously applied, by the Brazilians, to the rhea, or South American ostrich. Emu wren. See in the Vocabulary. 

EMULABLE:  Capable of being emulated. [R.] Some imitable and emulable good. Abp. Leighton. 

EMULATE:  Striving to excel; ambitious; emulous. [Obs.] "A most emulate pride." Shak. 

EMULATE:  To strive to equal or to excel in qualities or actions; to imitate, with a view to equal or to outdo, to vie with; to rival; as, to emulate the good and the great. Thine eye would emulate the diamond. Shak. 

EMULATIVE:  Inclined to emulation; aspiring to competition; rivaling; as, an emulative person or effort. "Emulative zeal." Hoole. 

EMULATIVELY:  In an emulative manner; with emulation. 

EMULATOR:  One who emulates, or strives to equal or surpass. As Virgil rivaled Homer, Milton was the emulator of both. Bp. Warburton. 

EMULATORY:  Pertaining to emulation; connected with rivalry. [R.] "Emulatory officiousness." Bp. Hall. 

EMULATRESS:  A female emulator. [R.] 

EMULE:  To emulate. [Obs.] "Emuled of many." Spenser. 

EMULGE:  To milk out; to drain. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EMULGENT:  Pertaining to the kidneys; renal; as, emulgent arteries and veins.  -- n.  An emulgent vessel, as a renal artery or vein. 

EMULGENT:  A medicine that excites the flow of bile. [Obs.] Hoblyn. 

EMULOUSLY:  In an emulous manner. 

EMULOUSNESS:  The quality of being emulous. 

EMULSIC:  Pertaining to, or produced from, emulsin; as, emulsic acid. Hoblyn. 

EMULSIFY:  To convert into an emulsion; to form an emulsion; to reduce from an oily substance to a milky fluid in which the fat globules are in a very finely divided state, giving it the semblance of solution; as, the pancreatic juice emulsifies the oily part of food. 

EMULSION:  Any liquid preparation of a color and consistency resembling milk; as: (a) In pharmacy, an extract of seeds, or a mixture of oil and water united by a mucilaginous substance. (b) In photography, a liquid preparation of collodion holding salt of silver, used in the photographic process. 

EMUNCTORY:  Any organ or part of the body (as the kidneys, skin, etc.,) which serves to carry off excrementitious or waste matter. 

EMUSCATION:  A freeing from moss. [Obs.]  EMU WREN E"mu wren`. (Zoöl.)  A small wrenlike Australian bird (Stipiturus malachurus), having the tail feathers long and loosely barbed, like emu feathers. 

EMYD:  A fresh-water tortoise of the family Emydidæ. 

EMYDEA:  A group of chelonians which comprises many species of fresh- water tortoises and terrapins.  EN- En-.  1. Etym: [F. en-, L. in.]  A prefix signifying in or into, used in many English words, chiefly those borrowed from the French. Some English words are written indifferently with en- or in-. For ease of pronunciation it is commonly changed to em- before p, b, and m, as in employ, embody, emmew. It is sometimes used to give a causal force, as in enable, enfeeble, to cause to be, or to make, able, or feeble; and sometimes merely gives an intensive force, as in enchasten. See In-.  2. A prefix from Gr. in; as, encephalon, entomology. See In-.  -EN -en.  1. A suffix from AS. -an, formerly used to form the plural of many nouns, as in ashen, eyen, oxen, all obs. except oxen. In some cases, such as children and brethren, it has been added to older plural forms.  2. A suffix corresponding to AS. -en and -on, formerly used to form the plural of verbs, as in housen, escapen.  3. A suffix signifying to make, to cause, used to form verbs from nouns and adjectives; as in strengthen, quicken, frighten. This must not be confused with -en corresponding in Old English to the AS. infinitive ending -an.  4. Etym: [AS. -en; akin to Goth. -eins, L. -inus, Gr.  An adjectival suffix, meaning made of; as in golden, leaden, wooden.  5. Etym: [AS. -en; akin to Skr. -na.]  The termination of the past participle of many strong verbs; as, in broken, gotten, trodden. 

EN:  Half an em, that is, half of the unit of space in measuring printed matter. See Em. 

ENABLEMENT:  The act of enabling, or the state of being enabled; ability. Bacon. 

ENACT:  Purpose; determination. [Obs.] 

ENACTIVE:  Having power to enact or establish as a law. Abp. Bramhall. 

ENACTOR:  One who enacts a law; one who decrees or establishes as a law. Atterbury. 

ENACTURE:  Enactment; resolution. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENALIOSAUR:  One of the Enaliosauria. 

ENALIOSAURIA:  An extinct group of marine reptiles, embracing both the Ichthyosauria and the Plesiosauria, now regarded as distinct orders. 

ENALIOSAURIAN:  Pertaining to the Enaliosauria.  -- n.  One of the Enaliosauria. 

ENALLAGE:  A substitution, as of one part of speech for another, of one gender, number, case, person, tense, mode, or voice, of the same word, for another. 

ENAMBUSH:  To ambush. [Obs.] 

ENAMEL:  A glassy, opaque bead obtained by the blowpipe.  3. That which is enameled; also, any smooth, glossy surface, resembling enamel, especially if variegated.  4. (Anat.)  The intensely hard calcified tissue entering into the composition of teeth. It merely covers the exposed parts of the teeth of man, but in many animals is intermixed in various ways with the dentine and cement. Enamel painting, painting with enamel colors upon a ground of metal, porcelain, or the like, the colors being afterwards fixed by fire.  -- Enamel paper, paper glazed a metallic coating. 

ENAMEL:  To practice the art of enameling. 

ENAMEL:  Relating to the art of enameling; as, enamel painting. Tomlinson. 

ENAMELAR:  Consisting of enamel; resembling enamel; smooth; glossy. [R.] Craig. 

ENAMELED:  Coated or adorned with enamel; having a glossy or variegated surface; glazed. [Written also enamelled.]  ENAMELER; ENAMELIST En*am"el*er, En*am"el*ist, n.  One who enamels; a workman or artist who applies enamels in ornamental work. [Written also enameller, enamellist.] 

ENAMOR:  To inflame with love; to charm; to captivate; -- with of, or with, before the person or thing; as, to be enamored with a lady; to be enamored of books or science. [Written also enamour.] Passionately enamored of this shadow of a dream. W. Irving. 

ENAMORMENT:  The state of being enamored. [R.] 

ENANTIOMORPHOUS:  Similar, but not superposable, i. e., related to each other as a right-handed to a left-handed glove; -- said of certain hemihedral crystals. 

ENANTIOPATHIC:  Serving to palliate; palliative. Dunglison. 

ENANTIOPATHY:  Allopathy; -- a term used by followers of Hahnemann, or homeopathists. 

ENANTIOSIS:  A figure of speech by which what is to be understood affirmatively is stated negatively, and the contrary; affirmation by contraries. 

ENARCH:  To arch. [Obs.] Lydgate. 

ENARCHED:  Bent into a curve; -- said of a bend or other ordinary. 

ENARGITE:  An iron-black mineral of metallic luster, occurring in small orthorhombic crystals, also massive. It contains sulphur, arsenic, copper, and often silver. 

ENARMED:  Same as Armed, 3. 

ENARRATION:  A detailed exposition; relation. [Obs.] Hakewill. 

ENARTHRODIA:  See Enarthrosis.  -- En`ar*thro"di*al, a. 

ENARTHROSIS:  A ball and socket joint, or the kind of articulation represented by such a joint. See Articulation. 

ENASCENT:  Coming into being; nascent. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton. 

ENATATION:  A swimming out. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ENATE:  Growing out. 

ENATION:  Any unusual outgrowth from the surface of a thing, as of a petal; also, the capacity or act of producing such an outgrowth. 

ENAUNTER:  Lest that. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENAVIGATE:  To sail away or over. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

ENBATTLED:  Embattled. [Obs.] 

ENBIBE:  To imbibe. [Obs.] Skelton.  EN BLOC En` bloc". [F. Cf. Block, n. ]  In a lump; as a whole; all together. "Movement of the ossicles en bloc."  Nature.  En bloc they are known as "the herd". W. A. Fraser. 

ENBROUDE:  See Embroude. 

ENCAENIA:  = Encenia. 

ENCAGE:  To confine in a cage; to coop up. Shak. 

ENCALENDAR:  To register in a calendar; to calendar. Drayton. 

ENCAMP:  To form and occupy a camp; to prepare and settle in temporary habitations, as tents or huts; to halt on a march, pitch tents, or form huts, and remain for the night or for a longer time, as an army or a company traveling. The host of the Philistines encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 1 Chron. xi. 15. 

ENCAMP:  To form into a camp; to place in a temporary habitation, or quarters. Bid him encamp his soldiers. Shak. 

ENCANKER:  To canker. [Obs.] 

ENCAPSULATION:  The act of inclosing in a capsule; the growth of a membrane around (any part) so as to inclose it in a capsule. 

ENCARNALIZE:  To carnalize; to make gross. [R.] "Encarnalize their spirits." Tennyson. 

ENCARPUS:  An ornament on a frieze or capital, consisting of festoons of fruit, flowers, leaves, etc. [Written also encarpa.] 

ENCASE:  To inclose as in a case. See Incase. Beau. & Fl. 

ENCASEMENT:  An old theory of generation similar to emboOvulist. 

ENCASH:  To turn into cash; to cash. Sat. Rev. 

ENCASHMENT:  The payment in cash of a note, draft, etc. 

ENCAUMA:  An ulcer in the eye, upon the cornea, which causes the loss of the humors. Dunglison. 

ENCAUSTIC:  Prepared by means of heat; burned in. Encaustic painting (Fine Arts), painting by means of wax with which the colors are combined, and which is afterwards fused with hot irons, thus fixing the colors.  -- Encaustic tile (Fine Arts), an earthenware tile which has a decorative pattern and is not wholly of one color. 

ENCAUSTIC:  The method of painting in heated wax, or in any way where heat is used to fix the colors. 

ENCAVE:  To hide in, or as in, a cave or recess. "Do but encave yourself." Shak.  -ENCE -ence. Etym: [F. -ence, L. -entia.]  A noun suffix signifying action, state, or quality; also, that which relates to the action or state; as in emergence, diffidence, diligence, influence, difference, excellence. See -ance. 

ENCEINTE:  The line of works which forms the main inclosure of a fortress or place; -- called also body of the place.  2. The area or town inclosed by a line of fortification. The suburbs are not unfrequently larger than their enceinte. S. W. Williams. 

ENCEINTE:  Pregnant; with child. 

ENCENIA:  A festival commemorative of the founding of a city or the consecration of a church; also, the ceremonies (as at Oxford and Cambridge, England) commemorative of founders or benefactors. 

ENCENSE:  To offer incense to or upon; to burn incense. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENCEPHALIC:  Pertaining to the encephalon or brain. 

ENCEPHALITIS:  Inflammation of the brain.  -- En`ceph*a*lit"ic, a. 

ENCEPHALOCELE:  Hernia of the brain. 

ENCEPHALOID:  Resembling the material of the brain; cerebriform. Encephaloid cancer (Med.), a very malignant form of cancer of brainlike consistency. See under Cancer. 

ENCEPHALOID:  An encephaloid cancer. 

ENCEPHALOLOGY:  The science which treats of the brain, its structure and functions. 

ENCEPHALON:  The contents of the cranium; the brain. 

ENCEPHALOPATHY:  Any disease or symptoms of disease referable to disorders of the brain; as, lead encephalopathy, the cerebral symptoms attending chronic lead poisoning. 

ENCEPHALOS:  The encephalon. In man the encephalos reaches its full size about seven years of age. Sir W. Hamilton. 

ENCEPHALOTOMY:  The act or art of dissecting the brain. 

ENCEPHALOUS:  Having a head; -- said of most Mollusca; -- opposed to acephalous. 

ENCHAFE:  To chafe; to enrage; to heat. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENCHAFING:  Heating; burning. [Obs.] The wicked enchaufing or ardure of this sin [lust]. Chaucer. 

ENCHAINMENT:  The act of enchaining, or state of being enchained. 

ENCHAIR:  To seat in a chair. Tennyson. 

ENCHANNEL:  To make run in a channel. "Its waters were enchanneled." Sir D. Brewster. 

ENCHANTED:  Under the power of enchantment; possessed or exercised by enchanters; as, an enchanted castle. 

ENCHANTER:  One who enchants; a sorcerer or magician; also, one who delights as by an enchantment. Like ghosts from an enchanter fleeing. Shelley. Enchanter's nightshade (Bot.), a genus (Circæa) of low inconspicuous, perennial plants, found in damp, shady places. 

ENCHANTING:  Having a power of enchantment; charming; fascinating.  -- En*chant"ing*ly, adv. 

ENCHANTRESS:  A woman versed in magical arts; a sorceress; also, a woman who fascinates. Shak. 

ENCHARGE:  To charge (with); to impose (a charge) upon. His countenance would express the spirit and the passion of the part he was encharged with. Jeffrey. 

ENCHARGE:  A charge. [Obs.] A. Copley. 

ENCHASER:  One who enchases. 

ENCHASTEN:  To chasten. [Obs.]  ENCHESON; ENCHEASON En*che"son, En*chea"son, n. Etym: [OF. enchaison, fr. L. incidere to happen; in + cadere to fall.]  Occasion, cause, or reason. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENCHEST:  To inclose in a chest. Vicars. 

ENCHIRIDION:  Handbook; a manual of devotions. Evelyn. 

ENCHISEL:  To cut with a chisel. 

ENCHODUS:  A genus of extinct Cretaceous fishes; -- so named from their spear-shaped teeth. They were allied to the pike (Esox). 

ENCHONDROMA:  A cartilaginous tumor growing from the interior of a bone. Quain.  ENCHORIAL; ENCHORIC En*cho"ri*al, En*chor"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.  Belonging to, or used in, a country; native; domestic; popular; common; -- said especially of the written characters employed by the common people of ancient Egypt, in distinction from the hieroglyphics. See Demotic. 

ENCHYLEMMA:  The basal substance of the cell nucleus; a hyaline or granular substance, more or less fluid during life, in which the other parts of the nucleus are imbedded. 

ENCHYMA:  The primitive formative juice, from which the tissues, particularly the cellular tissue, are formed. 

ENCINCTURE:  A cincture. [Poetic] The vast encincture of that gloomy sea. Wordsworth. 

ENCINDERED:  Burnt to cinders. [R.] 

ENCIRCLE:  To form a circle about; to inclose within a circle or ring; to surround; as, to encircle one in the arms; the army encircled the city. Her brows encircled with his serpent rod. Parnell.  Syn.  -- To encompass; surround; environ; inclose. 

ENCIRCLET:  A small circle; a ring. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

ENCLASP:  To clasp. See Inclasp. 

ENCLAVE:  A tract of land or a territory inclosed within another territory of which it is independent. See Exclave. [Recent] 

ENCLAVE:  To inclose within an alien territory. [Recent] 

ENCLAVEMENT:  The state of being an enclave. [Recent]  ENCLITIC; ENCLITICAL En*clit"ic, En*clit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. encliticus, Gr. In, and Lean, v. i.] (Gram.)  Affixed; subjoined; -- said of a word or particle which leans back upon the preceding word so as to become a part of it, and to lose its own independent accent, generally varying also the accent of the preceding word. 

ENCLITIC:  A word which is joined to another so closely as to lose its proper accent, as the pronoun thee in prithee (pray thee). 

ENCLITICALLY:  In an enclitic manner; by throwing the accent back. Walker. 

ENCLITICS:  The art of declining and conjugating words. 

ENCLOISTER:  To shut up in a cloister; to cloister. 

ENCLOSE:  To inclose. See Inclose. 

ENCLOSURE:  Inclosure. See Inclosure.  Note: The words enclose and enclosure are written indiscriminately enclose or inclose and enclosure or inclosure. 

ENCLOTHE:  To clothe. 

ENCLOUD:  To envelop in clouds; to cloud. [R.] Spenser. 

ENCOACH:  To carry in a coach. [R.] Davies (Wit's Pilgr.) 

ENCOFFIN:  To put in a coffin. [R.] 

ENCOLDEN:  To render cold. [Obs.] 

ENCOLLAR:  To furnish or surround with a collar. [R.] 

ENCOLOR:  To color. [R.] 

ENCOLURE:  The neck of horse. R. Browning. 

ENCOMBER:  See Encumber. [Obs.] 

ENCOMBERMENT:  Hindrance; molestation.[Obs.] Spenser. 

ENCOMIAST:  One who praises; a panegyrist. Locke.  ENCOMIASTIC; ENCOMIASTICAL En*co`mi*as"tic, En*co`mi*as"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Bestowing praise; praising; eulogistic; laudatory; as, an encomiastic address or discourse.  -- En*co`mi*as"tic*al*ly, adv. 

ENCOMIASTIC:  A panegyric. B. Jonson. 

ENCOMION:  Encomium; panegyric. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

ENCOMIUM:  Warm or high praise; panegyric; strong commendation. His encomiums awakened all my ardor. W. Irving.  Syn.  -- See Eulogy. 

ENCOMPASS:  To circumscribe or go round so as to surround closely; to encircle; to inclose; to environ; as, a ring encompasses the finger; an army encompasses a city; a voyage encompassing the world. Shak. A question may be encompassed with difficulty. C. J. Smith. The love of all thy sons encompass thee. Tennyson.  Syn.  -- To encircle; inclose; surround; include; environ; invest; hem in; shut up. 

ENCOMPASSMENT:  The act of surrounding, or the state of being surrounded; circumvention. By this encompassment and drift of question. Shak. 

ENCORE:  Once more; again; -- used by the auditors and spectators of plays, concerts, and other entertainments, to call for a repetition of a particular part. 

ENCORE:  A call or demand (as, by continued applause) for a repetition; as, the encores were numerous. 

ENCORE:  To call for a repetition or reappearance of; as, to encore a song or a singer. [Rebecca] insisted upon encoring one of the duets. Thackeray. 

ENCORPORING:  Incorporation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENCOUBERT:  One of several species of armadillos of the genera Dasypus and Euphractus, having five toes both on the fore and hind feet. 

ENCOUNTER:  To come against face to face; to meet; to confront, either by chance, suddenly, or deliberately; especially, to meet in opposition or with hostile intent; to engage in conflict with; to oppose; to struggle with; as, to encounter a friend in traveling; two armies encounter each other; to encounter obstacles or difficulties, to encounter strong evidence of a truth. Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoics, encountered him. Acts xvii. 18. I am most fortunate thus accidentally to encounter you. Shak. 

ENCOUNTER:  To meet face to face; to have a meeting; to meet, esp. as enemies; to engage in combat; to fight; as, three armies encountered at Waterloo. I will encounter with Andronicus. Shak. Perception and judgment, employed in the investigation of all truth, have in the first place to encounter with particulars. Tatham. 

ENCOUNTERER:  One who encounters; an opponent; an antagonist. Atterbury. 

ENCOURAGE:  To give courage to; to inspire with courage, spirit, or hope; to raise, or to increase, the confidence of; to animate; enhearten; to incite; to help forward; -- the opposite of discourage. David encouraged himself in the Lord. 1 Sam. xxx. 6.  Syn.  -- To embolden; inspirit; animate; enhearten; hearten; incite; cheer; urge; impel; stimulate; instigate; countenance; comfort; promote; advance; forward; strengthen. 

ENCOURAGER:  One who encourages, incites, or helps forward; a favorer. The pope is . . . a great encourager of arts. Addison. 

ENCOURAGING:  Furnishing ground to hope; inspiriting; favoring.  -- En*cour"a*ging*ly, adv. 

ENCOWL:  To make a monk (or wearer of a cowl) of. [R.] Drayton. 

ENCRADLE:  To lay in a cradle. 

ENCRATITE:  One of a sect in the 2d century who abstained from marriage, wine, and animal food; -- called also Continent. 

ENCREASE:  i. [Obs.] See Increase. 

ENCRIMSON:  To give a crimson or red color to; to crimson. Shak.  ENCRINIC; ENCRINAL; ENCRINITAL En*crin"ic, En*cri"nal, En*crin"i*tal, a. (Paleon.)  Relating to encrinites; containing encrinites, as certain kinds of limestone. 

ENCRINITE:  A fossil crinoid, esp. one belonging to, or resembling, the genus Encrinus. Sometimes used in a general sense for any crinoid.  ENCRINITIC; ENCRINITICAL En`cri*nit"ic, En`cri*nit"ic*al, a. (Paleon.)  Pertaining to encrinites; encrinal. 

ENCRINOIDEA:  That order of the Crinoidea which includes most of the living and many fossil forms, having jointed arms around the margin of the oral disk; -- also called Brachiata and Articulata. See Illusts. under Comatula and Crinoidea. 

ENCRINUS:  A genus of fossil encrinoidea, from the Mesozoic rocks. 

ENCRISPED:  Curled. [Obs.] Skelton. 

ENCROACH:  To enter by gradual steps or by stealth into the possessions or rights of another; to trespass; to intrude; to trench; -- commonly with on or upon; as, to encroach on a neighbor; to encroach on the highway. No sense, faculty, or member must encroach upon or interfere with the duty and office of another. South. Superstition, . . . a creeping and encroaching evil. Hooker. Exclude the encroaching cattle from thy ground. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To intrude; trench; infringe; invade; trespass. 

ENCROACH:  Encroachment. [Obs.] South. 

ENCROACHER:  One who by gradual steps enters on, and takes possession of, what is not his own. 

ENCROACHINGLY:  By way of encroachment. 

ENCROACHMENT:  An unlawful diminution of the possessions of another. 

ENCRUST:  To incrust. See Incrust. 

ENCRUSTMENT:  That which is formed as a crust; incrustment; incrustation. Disengaging truth from its encrustment of error. I. Taylor. 

ENCUMBERMENT:  Encumbrance. [R.] 

ENCUMBRANCE:  Same as Incumbrance.  Syn.  -- Burden; clog; impediment; check; hindrance. 

ENCUMBRANCER:  Same as Incumbrancer. 

ENCURTAIN:  To inclose with curtains.  -ENCY -en*cy. Etym: [L. -entia.]  A noun suffix having much the same meaning as -ence, but more commonly signifying the quality or state; as, emergency, efficiency. See -ancy.  ENCYCLIC; ENCYCLICAL En*cyc"lic, En*cyc"li*cal, a. Etym: [L. encyclios of a circle, general, Gr. encyclique. See Cycle.]  Sent to many persons or places; intended for many, or for a whole order of men; general; circular; as, an encyclical letter of a council, of a bishop, or the pope.  ENCYCLIC; ENCYCLICAL En*cyc"lic, En*cyc"li*cal, n.  An encyclical letter, esp. one from a pope. Shipley.  ENCYCLOPEDIA; ENCYCLOPAEDIA En*cy`clo*pe"di*a, En*cy`clo*pæ"di*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. encyclopédie. See Cyclopedia, and Encyclical.] [Formerly written encyclopædy and encyclopedy.]  The circle of arts and sciences; a comprehensive summary of knowledge, or of a branch of knowledge; esp., a work in which the various branches of science or art are discussed separately, and usually in alphabetical order; a cyclopedia. 

ENCYCLOPEDIACAL:  Encyclopedic. 

ENCYCLOPEDIAN:  Embracing the whole circle of learning, or a wide range of subjects.  ENCYCLOPEDIC; ENCYCLOPEDICAL En*cy`clo*ped"ic, En*cy`clo*ped"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. encyclopédique.]  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, an encyclopedia; embracing a wide range of subjects. 

ENCYCLOPEDISM:  The art of writing or compiling encyclopedias; also, possession of the whole range of knowledge; encyclopedic learning. 

ENCYCLOPEDIST:  The compiler of an encyclopedia, or one who assists in such compilation; also, one whose knowledge embraces the whole range of the sciences. The Encyclopedists, the writers of the great French encyclopedia which appeared in 1751-1772. The editors were Diderot and D'Alembert. Among the contributors were Voltaire and Rousseau. 

ENCYST:  To inclose in a cyst. 

ENCYSTATION:  Encystment. 

ENCYSTED:  Inclosed in a cyst, or a sac, bladder, or vesicle; as, an encysted tumor. The encysted venom, or poison bag, beneath the adder's fang. Coleridge. 

ENCYSTMENT:  A process which, among some of the lower forms of life, precedes reproduction by budding, fission, spore formation, etc.  Note: The animal (a) first contracts its body to a globular mass (b) and then secretes a transparent cyst (c), after which the mass divides into two or more parts (as in d e), each of which attains freedom by the bursting of the cyst, and becomes an individual animal.  2. (Zoöl.)  A process by which many internal parasites, esp. in their larval states, become inclosed within a cyst in the muscles, liver, etc. See Trichina. 

END:  One of the yarns of the worsted warp in a Brussels carpet.  An end. (a) On end; upright; erect; endways. Spenser (b) To the end; continuously. [Obs.] Richardson.  -- End bulb (Anat.), one of the bulblike bodies in which some sensory nerve fibers end in certain parts of the skin and mucous membranes; -- also called end corpuscles.  -- End fly, a bobfly.  -- End for end, one end for the other; in reversed order.  -- End man, the last man in a row; one of the two men at the extremities of a line of minstrels.  -- End on (Naut.), bow foremost.  -- End organ (Anat.), the structure in which a nerve fiber ends, either peripherally or centrally.  -- End plate (Anat.), one of the flat expansions in which motor nerve fibers terminate on muscular fibers.  -- End play (Mach.), movement endwise, or room for such movement.  -- End stone (Horol.), one of the two plates of a jewel in a timepiece; the part that limits the pivot's end play.  -- Ends of the earth, the remotest regions of the earth.  -- In the end, finally. Shak.  -- On end, upright; erect.  -- To the end, in order. Bacon.  -- To make both ends meet, to live within one's income. Fuller.  -- To put an end to, to destroy. 

END:  To come to the ultimate point; to be finished; to come to a close; to cease; to terminate; as, a voyage ends; life ends; winter ends. 

ENDABLE:  That may be ended; terminable.  ENDALL; END-ALL End"*all`, n.  Complete termination. [R.] That but this blow Might be the be-all and the end-all here. Shak. 

ENDAMAGE:  To bring loss or damage to; to harm; to injure. [R.] The trial hath endamaged thee no way. Milton. 

ENDAMAGEABLE:  Capable of being damaged, or injured; damageable. [Obs.] 

ENDAMAGEMENT:  Damage; injury; harm. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENDAMNIFY:  To damnify; to injure. [R.] Sandys. 

ENDANGERMENT:  Hazard; peril. Milton. 

ENDARK:  To darken. [Obs.] Feltham. 

ENDASPIDEAN:  Having the anterior scutes extending around the tarsus on the inner side; -- said of certain birds. 

ENDAZZLE:  To dazzle. [Obs.] "Endazzled eyes." Milton. 

ENDEAREDLY:  With affection or endearment; dearly. 

ENDEAREDNESS:  State of being endeared. 

ENDEARING:  Making dear or beloved; causing love.  -- En*dear"ing*ly, adv. 

ENDEARMENT:  The act of endearing or the state of being endeared; also, that which manifests, excites, or increases, affection. "The great endearments of prudent and temperate speech." Jer. Taylor. Her first endearments twining round the soul. Thomson. 

ENDEAVOR:  To exert physical or intellectual strength for the attainment of; to use efforts to effect; to strive to achieve or reach; to try; to attempt. It is our duty to endeavor the recovery of these beneficial subjects. Ld. Chatham. To endeavor one's self, to exert one's self strenuously to the fulfillment of a duty. [Obs.] "A just man that endeavoreth himself to leave all wickedness." Latimer. 

ENDEAVOR:  To exert one's self; to work for a certain end. And such were praised who but endeavored well. Pope.  Note: Usually with an infinitive; as, to endeavor to outstrip an antagonist. He had . . . endeavored earnestly to do his duty. Prescott.  Syn.  -- To attempt; try; strive; struggle; essay; aim; seek. 

ENDEAVOR:  An exertion of physical or intellectual strength toward the attainment of an object; a systematic or continuous attempt; an effort; a trial. To employ all my endeavor to obey you. Sir P. Sidney. To do one's endeavor, to do one's duty; to put forth strenuous efforts to attain an object; -- a phrase derived from the Middle English phrase "to do one's dever" (duty). "Mr. Prynne proceeded to show he had done endeavor to prepare his answer." Fuller.  Syn.  -- Essay; trial; effort; exertion. See Attempt. 

ENDEAVORER:  One who makes an effort or attempt. [Written also endeavourer.] 

ENDEAVORMENT:  Act of endeavoring; endeavor. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENDECAGON:  A plane figure of eleven sides and angles. 

ENDECAGYNOUS:  Having eleven pistils; as, an endecagynous flower. 

ENDECANE:  One of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series, C11H24, found as a constituent of petroleum. [Written also hendecane.] 

ENDECAPHYLLOUS:  Composed of eleven leaflets; -- said of a leaf. 

ENDEICTIC:  Serving to show or exhibit; as, an endeictic dialogue, in the Platonic philosophy, is one which exhibits a specimen of skill. Enfield. 

ENDEIXIS:  An indication. 

ENDEMIAL:  Endemic. [R.]  ENDEMIC; ENDEMICAL En*de"mic, En*de"mic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. endémique.] (Med.)  Peculiar to a district or particular locality, or class of persons; as, an endemic disease.  Note: An endemic disease is one which is constantly present to a greater or less degree in any place, as distinguished from an epidemic disease, which prevails widely at some one time, or periodically, and from a sporadic disease, of which a few instances occur now and then. 

ENDEMIC:  An endemic disease. Fear, which is an endemic latent in every human heart, sometimes rises into an epidemic. J. B. Heard. 

ENDEMICALLY:  In an endemic manner. 

ENDEMIOLOGY:  The science which treats of endemic affections. 

ENDENIZATION:  The act of naturalizing. [R.] 

ENDENIZE:  To endenizen. [Obs.] 

ENDENIZEN:  To admit to the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

ENDER:  One who, or that which, makes an end of something; as, the ender of my life. 

ENDERMATIC:  Endermic. 

ENDERMIC:  Acting through the skin, or by direct application to the skin. Endermic method, that in which the medicine enters the system through the skin, being applied either to the sound skin, or to the surface denuded of the cuticle by a blister. 

ENDERMICALLY:  By the endermic method; as, applied endermically. 

ENDERON:  The deep sensitive and vascular layer of the skin and mucous membranes.  -- En`de*ron"ic, a. 

ENDIADEMED:  Diademed. [R.] 

ENDIAPER:  To decorate with a diaper pattern. 

ENDICT:  See Indict. 

ENDICTMENT:  See Indictment. 

ENDING:  The final syllable or letter of a word; the part joined to the stem. See 3d Case, 5. Ending day, day of death. Chaucer. 

ENDITE:  See Indite. Spenser. 

ENDIVE:  A composite herb (Cichorium Endivia). Its finely divided and much curled leaves, when blanched, are used for salad. Wild endive (Bot.), chicory or succory. 

ENDLESSLY:  In an endless manner. 

ENDLESSNESS:  The quality of being endless; perpetuity. 

ENDLONG:  Lengthwise; along. [Archaic] The doors were all of adamants eterne, I-clenched overthwart and endelong With iron tough. Chaucer. He pricketh endelong the large space. Chaucer. To thrust the raft endlong across the moat. Sir W. Scott. 

ENDMOST:  Farthest; remotest; at the very end. Tylor.  ENDO-; END- En"do-, End-. Etym: [Gr. In.]  A combining form signifying within; as, endocarp, endogen, endocuneiform, endaspidean. 

ENDOBLAST:  Entoblast; endoplast. See Nucleus, 

ENDOBLASTIC:  Relating to the endoblast; as, the endoblastic layer.  ENDOCARDIAC; ENDOCARDIAL En`do*car"di*ac, En`do*car"di*al, a.  1. Pertaining to the endocardium.  2. (Med.)  Seated or generated within the heart; as, endocardial murmurs. 

ENDOCARDITIS:  Inflammation of the endocardium. 

ENDOCARDIUM:  The membrane lining the cavities of the heart. 

ENDOCARP:  The inner layer of a ripened or fructified ovary. 

ENDOCHONDRAL:  Growing or developing within cartilage; -- applied esp. to developing bone. 

ENDOCHROME:  The coloring matter within the cells of plants, whether green, red, yellow, or any other color. 

ENDOCTRINE:  To teach; to indoctrinate. [Obs.] Donne. 

ENDOCYST:  The inner layer of the cells of Bryozoa. 

ENDODERM:  Of or pertaining to the endoderm. 

ENDODERMIS:  A layer of cells forming a kind of cuticle inside of the proper cortical layer, or surrounding an individual fibrovascular bundle. 

ENDOGAMOUS:  Marrying within the same tribe; -- opposed to exogamous. 

ENDOGAMY:  Marriage only within the tribe; a custom restricting a man in his choice of a wife to the tribe to which he belongs; -- opposed to exogamy. 

ENDOGEN:  A plant which increases in size by internal growth and elongation at the summit, having the wood in the form of bundles or threads, irregularly distributed throughout the whole diameter, not forming annual layers, and with no distinct pith. The leaves of the endogens have, usually, parallel veins, their flowers are mostly in three, or some multiple of three, parts, and their embryos have but a single cotyledon, with the first leaves alternate. The endogens constitute one of the great primary classes of plants, and included all palms, true lilies, grasses, rushes, orchids, the banana, pineapple, etc. See Exogen. 

ENDOGENESIS:  Endogeny. 

ENDOGENETIC:  Endogenous. 

ENDOGENOUS:  Increasing by internal growth and elongation at the summit, instead of externally, and having no distinction of pith, wood, and bark, as the rattan, the palm, the cornstalk.  2. (Biol.)  Originating from within; increasing by internal growth. Endogenous multiplication (Biol.), a method of cell formation, seen in cells having a cell wall. The nucleus and protoplasm divide into two distinct masses; these in turn become divided and subdivided, each division becoming a new cell, until finally the original cell wall is ruptured and the new cells are liberated (see Segmentation, and Illust. of Cell Division, under Division). This mode of growth is characteristic of many forms of cells, both animal and vegetable. 

ENDOGENOUSLY:  By endogenous growth. 

ENDOGENY:  Growth from within; multiplication of cells by endogenous division, as in the development of one or more cells in the interior of a parent cell. 

ENDOGNATH:  The inner or principal branch of the oral appendages of Crustacea. See Maxilla. 

ENDOGNATHAL:  Pertaining to the endognath. 

ENDOLYMPH:  The watery fluid contained in the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear. 

ENDOLYMPHANGIAL:  Within a lymphatic vessel. 

ENDOME:  To cover as with a dome. 

ENDOMETRITIS:  Inflammation of the endometrium. 

ENDOMETRIUM:  The membrane lining the inner surface of the uterus, or womb. 

ENDOMORPH:  A crystal of one species inclosed within one of another, as one of rutile inclosed in quartz. 

ENDOMYSIUM:  The delicate bands of connective tissue interspersed among muscular fibers. 

ENDONEURIUM:  The delicate bands of connective tissue among nerve fibers. 

ENDOPARASITE:  Any parasite which lives in the internal organs of an animal, as the tapeworms, Trichina, etc.; -- opposed to ectoparasite. See Entozoön.  -- En`do*par`a*sit"ic, a. 

ENDOPHLOEUM:  The inner layer of the bark of trees. 

ENDOPHRAGMA:  A chitinous structure above the nervous cord in the thorax of certain Crustacea. 

ENDOPHRAGMAL:  Of or pertaining to the endophragma. 

ENDOPHYLLOUS:  Wrapped up within a leaf or sheath. 

ENDOPLASM:  The protoplasm in the interior of a cell. 

ENDOPLASMA:  Same as Entoplasm and Endosarc. 

ENDOPLAST:  See Nucleus. 

ENDOPLASTICA:  A group of Rhizopoda having a distinct nucleus, as the am 

ENDOPLASTULE:  See Nucleolus. 

ENDOPLEURA:  The inner coating of a seed. See Tegmen. 

ENDOPLEURITE:  The portion of each apodeme developed from the interepimeral membrane in certain crustaceans. 

ENDOPODITE:  The internal or principal branch of the locomotive appendages of Crustacea. See Maxilliped. 

ENDORHIZA:  Any monocotyledonous plant; -- so named because many monocotyledons have an endorhizal embryo.  Note: Endorhiza was proposed by Richard as a substitute for the term endogen, and exorhiza as a substitute for the term exogen; but they have not been generally adopted.  ENDORHIZAL; ENDORHIZOUS En`do*rhi"zal, En`do*rhi"zous, a. (Bot.)  Having the radicle of the embryo sheathed by the cotyledon, through which the embryo bursts in germination, as in many monocotyledonous plants. 

ENDORSE:  Same as Indorse.  Note: Both endorse and indorse are used by good writers; but the tendency is to the more general use of indorse and its derivatives indorsee, indorser, and indorsement. 

ENDORSE:  A subordinary, resembling the pale, but of one fourth its width (according to some writers, one eighth). 

ENDORSEE:  Same as Indorsee. 

ENDORSEMENT:  Same as Indorsement. 

ENDORSER:  Same as Indorser. 

ENDOSARC:  The semifluid, granular interior of certain unicellular organisms, as the inner layer of sarcode in the amoeba; entoplasm; endoplasta. 

ENDOSCOPE:  An instrument for examining the interior of the rectum, the urethra, and the bladder. 

ENDOSCOPY:  The art or process of examining by means of the endoscope. 

ENDOSKELETAL:  Pertaining to, or connected with, the endoskeleton; as, endoskeletal muscles. 

ENDOSKELETON:  The bony, cartilaginous, or other internal framework of an animal, as distinguished from the exoskeleton. 

ENDOSMOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the force or amount of endosmotic action. 

ENDOSMOMETRIC:  Pertaining to, or designed for, the measurement of endosmotic action.  ENDOSMOSE; ENDOSMOSIS En"dos*mose`, En`dos*mo"sis, n. Etym: [NL. endosmosis, fr. Gr. endosmose.] (Physics)  The transmission of a fluid or gas from without inward in the phenomena, or by the process, of osmose. 

ENDOSMOSMIC:  Endosmotic. 

ENDOSMOTIC:  Pertaining to endosmose; of the nature endosmose; osmotic. Carpenter. 

ENDOSPERM:  The albumen of a seed; -- limited by recent writers to that formed within the embryo sac. 

ENDOSPERMIC:  Relating to, accompanied by, or containing, endosperm. 

ENDOSPORE:  The thin inner coat of certain spores. 

ENDOSPOROUS:  Having the spores contained in a case; -- applied to fungi. 

ENDOSS:  To put upon the back or outside of anything; -- the older spelling of endorse. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENDOSTEAL:  Relating to endostosis; as, endosteal ossification. 

ENDOSTERNITE:  The part of each apodeme derived from the intersternal membrane in Crustacea and insects. 

ENDOSTEUM:  The layer of vascular connective tissue lining the medullary cavities of bone. 

ENDOSTOMA:  A plate which supports the labrum in certain Crustacea. 

ENDOSTOME:  The foramen or passage through the inner integument of an ovule.  2. (Zoöl.)  And endostoma. 

ENDOSTOSIS:  A process of bone formation in which ossification takes place within the substance of the cartilage. 

ENDOSTYLE:  A fold of the endoderm, which projects into the blood cavity of ascidians. See Tunicata. 

ENDOTHECA:  The tissue which partially fills the interior of the interseptal chambers of most madreporarian corals. It usually consists of a series of oblique tranverse septa, one above another.  -- En`do*the"cal, a. 

ENDOTHECIUM:  The inner lining of an another cell. 

ENDOTHELIAL:  Of, or relating to, endothelium. 

ENDOTHELIUM:  The thin epithelium lining the blood vessels, lymphatics, and serous cavities. See Epithelium. 

ENDOTHELOID:  Like endothelium. 

ENDOTHERMIC:  Designating, or pert. to, a reaction which occurs with absorption of heat; formed by such a reaction; as, an endothermic substance; -- opposed to exothermic. 

ENDOTHORAX:  An internal process of the sternal plates in the thorax of insects. 

ENDOWER:  To endow. [Obs.] Waterhouse. 

ENDOWER:  One who endows. 

ENDOZOA:  See Entozoa. 

ENDRUDGE:  To make a drudge or slave of. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ENDUE:  To invest. Latham. Tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high. Luke xxiv. 49. Endue them . . . with heavenly gifts. Book of Common Prayer. 

ENDUE:  An older spelling of Endow. Tillotson. 

ENDUEMENT:  Act of enduing; induement. 

ENDURABLE:  Capable of being endured or borne; sufferable. Macaulay.  -- En*dur"a*ble*ness, n. 

ENDURABLY:  In an endurable manner. 

ENDURANT:  Capable of enduring fatigue, pain, hunger, etc. The ibex is a remarkably endurant animal. J. G. Wood. 

ENDUREMENT:  Endurance. [Obs.] South. 

ENDURER:  One who, or that which, endures or lasts; one who bears, suffers, or sustains. 

ENDURING:  Lasting; durable; long-suffering; as, an enduring disposition. "A better and enduring substance." Heb. x. 34.  -- En*dur"ing*ly, adv. T. Arnold.  -- En*dur"ing*ness, n.  ENDWAYS; ENDWISE End"ways`, End"wise, adv.  1. On end; erectly; in an upright position.  2. With the end forward. 

ENDYMA:  See Ependyma. 

ENDYSIS:  The act of developing a new coat of hair, a new set of feathers, scales, etc.; -- opposed to ecdysis. 

ENECATE:  To kill off; to destroy. [Obs.] Harvey. 

ENEID:  Same as Æneid. 

ENEMA:  An injection, or clyster, thrown into the rectum as a medicine, or to impart nourishment. Hoblyn. 

ENEMY:  One hostile to another; one who hates, and desires or attempts the injury of, another; a foe; an adversary; as, an enemy of or to a person; an enemy to truth, or to falsehood. To all good he enemy was still. Spenser. I say unto you, Love your enemies. Matt. v. 44. The enemy (Mil.), the hostile force. In this sense it is construed with the verb and pronoun either in the singular or the plural, but more commonly in the singular; as, we have met the enemy and he is ours or they are ours. It was difficult in such a country to track the enemy. It was impossible to drive him to bay. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Foe; antagonist; opponent. See Adversary. 

ENEMY:  Hostile; inimical. [Obs.] They . . . every day grow more enemy to God. Jer. Taylor. 

ENEPIDERMIC:  Applied to the skin without friction; -- said of medicines.  ENERGETIC; ENERGETICAL En`er*get"ic, En`er*get"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Energy.]  1. Having energy or energies; possessing a capacity for vigorous action or for exerting force; active. "A Being eternally energetic." Grew.  2. Exhibiting energy; operating with force, vigor, and effect; forcible; powerful; efficacious; as, energetic measures; energetic laws.  Syn.  -- Forcible; powerful; efficacious; potent; vigorous; effective; strenuous.  -- En`er*get"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- En`er*get"ic*al*ness, n. 

ENERGETICS:  That branch of science which treats of the laws governing the physical or mechanical, in distinction from the vital, forces, and which comprehends the consideration and general investigation of the whole range of the forces concerned in physical phenomena. [R.]  ENERGIC; ENERGICAL En*er"gic, En*er"gic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. énergique.]  1. In a state of action; acting; operating.  2. Having energy or great power; energetic. The energic faculty that we call will. Blackw. Mag. 

ENERGIZE:  To use strength in action; to act or operate with force or vigor; to act in producing an effect. Of all men it is true that they feel and energize first, they reflect and judge afterwards. J. C. Shairp. 

ENERGIZE:  To give strength or force to; to make active; to alacrify; as, to energize the will. 

ENERGIZER:  One who, or that which, gives energy, or acts in producing an effect. 

ENERGIZING:  Capable of imparting or exercising energy. Those nobler exercises of energizing love. Bp. Horsley. 

ENERGUMEN:  One possessed by an evil spirit; a demoniac. 

ENERGY:  Capacity for performing work.  Note: The kinetic energy of a body is the energy it has in virtue of being in motion. It is measured by one half of the product of the mass of each element of the body multiplied by the square of the velocity of the element, relative to some given body or point. The available kinetic energy of a material system unconnected with any other system is that energy which is due to the motions of the parts of the system relative to its center of mass. The potential energy of a body or system is that energy which is not kinetic; -- energy due to configuration. Kinetic energy is sometimes called actual energy. Kinetic energy is exemplified in the vis viva of moving bodies, in heat, electric currents, etc.; potential energy, in a bent spring, or a body suspended a given distance above the earth and acted on by gravity.  Accumulation, Conservation, Correlation, and Degradation of energy, etc. (Physics) See under Accumulation, Conservation, Correlation, etc.  Syn.  -- Force; power; potency; vigor; strength; spirit; efficiency; resolution. 

ENERVATE:  To deprive of nerve, force, strength, or courage; to render feeble or impotent; to make effeminate; to impair the moral powers of. A man . . . enervated by licentiousness. Macaulay. And rhyme began t' enervate poetry. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To weaken; enfeeble; unnerve; debilitate. 

ENERVATE:  Weakened; weak; without strength of force. Pope. 

ENERVATIVE:  Having power, or a tendency, to enervate; weakening. [R.] 

ENERVE:  To weaken; to enervate. [Obs.] Milton. 

ENERVOUS:  Lacking nerve or force; enervated. [R.] 

ENFAMISH:  To famish; to starve. 

ENFECT:  Contaminated with illegality. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENFEEBLE:  To make feeble; to deprive of strength; to reduce the strength or force of; to weaken; to debilitate. Enfeebled by scanty subsistence and excessive toil. Prescott.  Syn.  -- To weaken; debilitate; enervate. 

ENFEEBLEMENT:  The act of weakening; enervation; weakness. 

ENFEEBLER:  One who, or that which, weakens or makes feeble. 

ENFEEBLISH:  To enfeeble. [Obs.] Holland. 

ENFELONED:  Rendered fierce or frantic. [Obs.] "Like one enfeloned or distraught." Spenser. 

ENFEOFF:  To give a feud, or right in land, to; to invest with a fief or fee; to invest (any one) with a freehold estate by the process of feoffment. Mozley & W.  2. To give in vassalage; to make subservient. [Obs.] [The king] enfeoffed himself to popularity. Shak. 

ENFESTER:  To fester. [Obs.] "Enfestered sores." Davies (Holy Roode). 

ENFETTER:  To bind in fetters; to enchain. "Enfettered to her love." Shak. 

ENFEVER:  To excite fever in. [R.] A. Seward. 

ENFIERCE:  To make fierce. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENFILADE:  A firing in the direction of the length of a trench, or a line of parapet or troops, etc.; a raking fire. 

ENFILADE:  To pierce, scour, or rake with shot in the direction of the length of, as a work, or a line of troops. Campbell. 

ENFILED:  Having some object, as the head of a man or beast, impaled upon it; as, a sword which is said to be "enfiled of" the thing which it pierces. 

ENFIRE:  To set on fire. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENFLESH:  To clothe with flesh. [Obs.] Vices which are . . . enfleshed in him. Florio. 

ENFLEURAGE:  A process of extracting perfumes by exposing absorbents, as fixed oils or fats, to the exhalations of the flowers. It is used for plants whose volatile oils are too delicate to be separated by distillation. 

ENFLOWER:  To cover or deck with flowers. [Poetic] These odorous and enflowered fields. B. Jonson. 

ENFOLD:  To infold. See Infold. 

ENFOLDMENT:  The act of infolding. See Infoldment. 

ENFORCE:  Force; strength; power. [Obs.] A petty enterprise of small enforce. Milton. 

ENFORCEABLE:  Capable of being enforced. 

ENFORCED:  Compelled; forced; not voluntary. "Enforced wrong." "Enforced smiles." Shak.  -- En*for"ced*ly, adv. Shak. 

ENFORCER:  One who enforces. 

ENFORCIBLE:  That may be enforced. 

ENFORCIVE:  Serving to enforce or constrain; compulsive. Marsion.  -- En*for"cive*ly, adv. 

ENFOREST:  To turn into a forest. 

ENFORM:  To form; to fashion. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENFOULDRED:  Mixed with, or emitting, lightning. [Obs.] "With foul enfouldred smoke." Spenser. 

ENFRAME:  To inclose, as in a frame. 

ENFRANCHISER:  One who enfranchises. 

ENFREE:  To set free. [Obs.] "The enfreed Antenor." Shak. 

ENFREEDOM:  To set free. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENFREEZE:  To freeze; to congeal. [Obs.] Thou hast enfrozened her disdainful breast. Spenser. 

ENFROWARD:  To make froward, perverse, or ungovernable. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 

ENGAGE:  To come into gear with; as, the teeth of one cogwheel engage those of another, or one part of a clutch engages the other part. 

ENGAGE:  To be in gear, as two cogwheels working together. 

ENGAGEDLY:  With attachment; with interest; earnestly. 

ENGAGEDNESS:  The state of being deeply interested; earnestness; zeal. 

ENGAGEMENT:  An action; a fight; a battle. In hot engagement with the Moors. Dryden.  5. (Mach.)  The state of being in gear; as, one part of a clutch is brought into engagement with the other part.  Syn.  -- Vocation; business; employment; occupation; promise; stipulation; betrothal; word; battle; combat; fight; contest; conflict. See Battle. 

ENGAGER:  One who enters into an engagement or agreement; a surety. Several sufficient citizens were engagers. Wood. 

ENGAGING:  Tending to draw the attention or affections; attractive; as, engaging manners or address.  -- En*ga"ging*ly, adv.  -- En*ga"ging*ness, n. Engaging and disengaging gear or machinery, that in which, or by means of which, one part is alternately brought into gear or out of gear with another part, as occasion may require. 

ENGALLANT:  To make a gallant of. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

ENGAOL:  To put in jail; to imprison. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENGARBOIL:  To throw into disorder; to disturb. [Obs.] "To engarboil the church." Bp. Montagu. 

ENGARLAND:  To encircle with a garland, or with garlands. Sir P. Sidney. 

ENGARRISON:  To garrison; to put in garrison, or to protect by a garrison. Bp. Hall. 

ENGASTRIMUTH:  An ventriloquist. [Obs.] 

ENGENDER:  One who, or that which, engenders. 

ENGENDRURE:  The act of generation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENGILD:  To gild; to make splendent. Fair Helena, who most engilds the night. Shak. 

ENGINE:  A compound machine by which any physical power is applied to produce a given physical effect. Engine driver, one who manages an engine; specifically, the engineer of a locomotive.  -- Engine lathe. (Mach.) See under Lathe.  -- Engine tool, a machine tool. J. Whitworth.  -- Engine turning (Fine Arts), a method of ornamentation by means of a rose engine.  Note: The term engine is more commonly applied to massive machines, or to those giving power, or which produce some difficult result. Engines, as motors, are distinguished according to the source of power, as steam engine, air engine, electro-magnetic engine; or the purpose on account of which the power is applied, as fire engine, pumping engine, locomotive engine; or some peculiarity of construction or operation, as single-acting or double-acting engine, high-pressure or low-pressure engine, condensing engine, etc. 

ENGINEERING:  Originally, the art of managing engines; in its modern and extended sense, the art and science by which the mechanical properties of matter are made useful to man in structures and machines; the occupation and work of an engineer.  Note: In a comprehensive sense, engineering includes architecture as a mechanical art, in distinction from architecture as a fine art. It was formerly divided into military engineering, which is the art of designing and constructing offensive and defensive works, and civil engineering, in a broad sense, as relating to other kinds of public works, machinery, etc.  -- Civil engineering, in modern usage, is strictly the art of planning, laying out, and constructing fixed public works, such as railroads, highways, canals, aqueducts, water works, bridges, lighthouses, docks, embankments, breakwaters, dams, tunnels, etc.  -- Mechanical engineering relates to machinery, such as steam engines, machine tools, mill work, etc.  -- Mining engineering deals with the excavation and working of mines, and the extraction of metals from their ores, etc. Engineering is further divided into steam engineering, gas engineering, agricultural engineering, topographical engineering, electrical engineering, etc. 

ENGINEMAN:  A man who manages, or waits on, an engine. 

ENGINER:  A contriver; an inventor; a contriver of engines. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENGINERY:  Sized by a machine, and not while in the pulp; -- said of paper. Knight.  ENGINE-TYPE GENERATOR En"gine-type` gen"er*a`tor. (Elec.)  A generator having its revolving part carried on the shaft of the driving engine. 

ENGIRD:  To gird; to encompass. Shak. 

ENGIRDLE:  To surround as with a girdle; to girdle. 

ENGIRT:  To engird. [R.] Collins. 

ENGISCOPE:  A kind of reflecting microscope. [Obs.] 

ENGLAIMED:  Clammy. [Obs.] 

ENGLE:  A favorite; a paramour; an ingle. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

ENGLE:  To cajole or coax, as favorite. [Obs.] I 'll presently go and engle some broker. B. Jonson. 

ENGLISH:  Of or pertaining to England, or to its inhabitants, or to the present so-called Anglo-Saxon race. English bond (Arch.)  See 1st Bond, n.,  8.  -- English breakfast tea. See Congou.  -- English horn. (Mus.) See Corno Inglese.  -- English walnut. (Bot.) See under Walnut. 

ENGLISH:  A twist or spinning motion given to a ball in striking it that influences the direction it will take after touching a cushion or another ball. The King's, or Queen's, English. See under King. 

ENGLISH:  To strike (the cue ball) in such a manner as to give it in addition to its forward motion a spinning motion, that influences its direction after impact on another ball or the cushion. [U.S.] 

ENGLISHABLE:  Capable of being translated into, or expressed in, English. 

ENGLISHMAN:  A native or a naturalized inhabitant of England. 

ENGLISHWOMAN:  Fem. of Englishman. Shak. 

ENGLOOM:  To make gloomy. [R.] 

ENGLUE:  To join or close fast together, as with glue; as, a coffer well englued. Gower. 

ENGORGE:  To feed with eagerness or voracity; to stuff one's self with food. Beaumont. 

ENGORGED:  Filled to excess with blood or other liquid; congested. 

ENGORGEMENT:  An overfullness or obstruction of the vessels in some part of the system; congestion. Hoblyn.  3. (Metal.)  The clogging of a blast furnace. 

ENGOULED:  Partly swallowed; disappearing in the jaws of anything; as, an infant engouled by a serpent; said also of an ordinary, when its two ends to issue from the mouths of lions, or the like; as, a bend engouled. 

ENGOULEE:  Same as Engouled. 

ENGRAFF:  To graft; to fix deeply. [Obs.] 

ENGRAFFMENT:  See Ingraftment. [Obs.] 

ENGRAFT:  See Ingraft. Shak.  ENGRAFTATION; ENGRAFTMENT En`graf*ta"tion, En*graft"ment, n.  The act of ingrafting; ingraftment. [R.] 

ENGRAIL:  To indent with small curves. See Engrailed. 

ENGRAIL:  To form an edging or border; to run in curved or indented lines. Parnell. 

ENGRAILED:  Indented with small concave curves, as the edge of a bordure, bend, or the like. 

ENGRAILMENT:  Indentation in curved lines, as of a line of division or the edge of an ordinary. 

ENGRAPPLE:  To grapple. [Obs.] 

ENGRASP:  To grasp; to grip. [R.] Spenser. 

ENGRAVE:  To deposit in the grave; to bury. [Obs.] "Their corses to engrave." Spenser. 

ENGRAVED:  Having the surface covered with irregular, impressed lines. 

ENGRAVER:  One who engraves; a person whose business it is to produce engraved work, especially on metal or wood. 

ENGRAVERY:  The trade or work of an engraver. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

ENGREGGE:  To aggravate; to make worse; to lie heavy on. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENGRIEVE:  To grieve. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENGUARD:  To surround as with a guard. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENGULF:  To absorb or swallow up as in a gulf. It quite engulfs all human thought. Young.  Syn.  -- See Absorb. 

ENGULFMENT:  A swallowing up as if in a gulf. [R.] 

ENGYN:  Variant of Engine. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENHALO:  To surround with a halo. 

ENHANCE:  To be raised up; to grow larger; as, a debt enhances rapidly by compound interest. 

ENHANCEMENT:  The act of increasing, or state of being increased; augmentation; aggravation; as, the enhancement of value, price, enjoyments, crime. 

ENHANCER:  One who enhances; one who, or that which, raises the amount, price, etc. 

ENHARBOR:  To find harbor or safety in; to dwell in or inhabit. W. Browne. 

ENHARDEN:  To harden; to embolden. [Obs.] Howell.  ENHARMONIC; ENHARMONICAL En`har*mon"ic, En`har*mon"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. enharmonique.]  1. (Anc. Mus.)  Of or pertaining to that one of the three kinds of musical scale (diatonic, chromatic, enharmonic) recognized by the ancient Greeks, which consisted of quarter tones and major thirds, and was regarded as the most accurate.  2. (Mus.) (a) Pertaining to a change of notes to the eye, while, as the same keys are used, the instrument can mark no difference to the ear, as the substitution of A for G#. (b) Pertaining to a scale of perfect intonation which recognizes all the notes and intervals that result from the exact tuning of diatonic scales and their transposition into other keys. 

ENHARMONICALLY:  In the enharmonic style or system; in just intonation. 

ENHEARTEN:  To give heart to; to fill with courage; to embolden. The enemy exults and is enheartened. I. Taylor. 

ENHEDGE:  To surround as with a hedge. [R.] Vicars. 

ENHORT:  To encourage. [Obs.] "To enhort the people." Chaucer. 

ENHUNGER:  To make hungry. Those animal passions which vice had . . . enhungered to feed on innocence and life. J. Martineau. 

ENHYDROS:  A variety of chalcedony containing water. 

ENHYDROUS:  Having water within; containing fluid drops; -- said of certain crystals. 

ENIGMA:  Relating to or resembling an enigma; not easily explained or accounted for; darkly expressed; obscure; puzzling; as, an enigmatical answer. 

ENIGMATICALLY:  Darkly; obscurely. 

ENIGMATIST:  One who makes, or talks in, enigmas. Addison. 

ENIGMATIZE:  To make, or talk in, enigmas; to deal in riddles.  ENIGMATOGRAPHY; ENIGMATOLOGY E*nig`ma*tog"ra*phy, E*nig`ma*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy, - logy.]  The art of making or of solving enigmas. 

ENISLED:  Placed alone or apart, as if on an island; severed, as an island. [R.] "In the sea of life enisled." M. Arnold. 

ENJAIL:  To put into jail; to imprison. [R.] Donne. 

ENJOIN:  To prohibit or restrain by a judicial order or decree; to put an injunction on. This is a suit to enjoin the defendants from disturbing the plaintiffs. Kent.  Note: Enjoin has the force of pressing admonition with authority; as, a parent enjoins on his children the duty of obedience. But it has also the sense of command; as, the duties enjoined by God in the moral law. "This word is more authoritative than direct, and less imperious than command." Johnson. 

ENJOIN:  To join or unite. [Obs.] Hooker. 

ENJOINER:  One who enjoins. 

ENJOINMENT:  Direction; command; authoritative admonition. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ENJOY:  To take satisfaction; to live in happiness. [R.] Milton. 

ENJOYABLE:  Capable of being enjoyed or of giving joy; yielding enjoyment. Milton. 

ENJOYER:  One who enjoys. 

ENKENNEL:  To put into a kennel. 

ENKERCHIEFED:  Bound with a kerchief; draped; hooded; covered. Milton. That soft, enkerchiefed hair. M. Arnold. 

ENLACE:  To bind or encircle with lace, or as with lace; to lace; to encircle; to enfold; hence, to entangle. Ropes of pearl her neck and breast enlace. P. Fletcher. 

ENLACEMENT:  The act of enlacing, or state of being enlaced; a surrounding as with a lace. 

ENLARD:  To cover or dress with lard or grease; to fatten. Shak. 

ENLARGE:  To get more astern or parallel with the vessel's course; to draw aft; -- said of the wind. 

ENLARGED:  Made large or larger; extended; swollen.  -- En*lar"ged*ly, adv.  -- En*lar"ged*ness, n. 

ENLARGER:  One that enlarges. 

ENLAY:  See Inlay. 

ENLENGTHEN:  To lengthen. [Obs.] 

ENLEVEN:  Eleven. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENLIGHT:  To illumine; to enlighten. [R.] Which from the first has shone on ages past, Enlights the present, and shall warm the last. Pope. 

ENLIGHTENER:  One who enlightens or illuminates; one who, or that which, communicates light to the eye, or clear views to the mind. 

ENLIGHTENMENT:  Act of enlightening, or the state of being enlightened or instructed. 

ENLIMN:  To adorn by illuminating or ornamenting with colored and decorated letters and figures, as a book or manuscript. [R.] Palsgrave. 

ENLINK:  To chain together; to connect, as by links. Shak. 

ENLIVE:  To enliven. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ENLIVENER:  One who, or that which, enlivens, animates, or invigorates. 

ENLOCK:  To lock; to inclose. 

ENLUMINE:  To illumine. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENLUTE:  To coat with clay; to lute. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENMANCHE:  Resembling, or covered with, a sleeve; -- said of the chief when lines are drawn from the middle point of the upper edge upper edge to the sides. 

ENMARBLE:  To make hard as marble; to harden. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENMESH:  To catch or entangle in, or as in, meshes. Shak. My doubts enmesh me if I try. Lowell. 

ENMEW:  See Emmew. 

ENMIST:  To infold, as in a mist. 

ENMOSSED:  Covered with moss; mossed. Keats. 

ENMOVE:  See Emmove. [Obs.] 

ENMUFFLE:  To muffle up. 

ENMURE:  To immure. [Obs.] 

ENNATION:  The ninth segment in insects. 

ENNEAD:  The number nine or a group of nine. The Enneads, the title given to the works of the philosopher Plotinus, published by his pupil Porphyry; -- so called because each of the six books into which it is divided contains nine chapters. 

ENNEAGON:  A polygon or plane figure with nine sides and nine angles; a nonagon. 

ENNEAGONAL:  Belonging to an enneagon; having nine angles. 

ENNEAGYNOUS:  Having or producing nine pistils or styles; -- said of a flower or plant. 

ENNEAHEDRAL:  Having nine sides.  ENNEAHEDRIA; ENNEAHEDRON En`ne*a*he"dri*a, En`ne*a*he"dron, n. (Geom.)  A figure having nine sides; a nonagon. 

ENNEANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having nine stamens.  ENNEANDRIAN; ENNEANDROUS En`ne*an"dri*an, En`ne*an"drous, a. (Bot.)  Having nine stamens. 

ENNEAPETALOUS:  Having nine petals, or flower leaves. 

ENNEASPERMOUS:  Having nine seeds; -- said of fruits.  ENNEATIC; ENNEATICAL En`ne*at"ic, En`ne*at"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Occurring once in every nine times, days, years, etc.; every ninth. Enneatical day, every ninth day of a disease.  -- Enneatical year, every ninth year of a man's life. 

ENNEW:  To make new. [Obs.] Skelton. 

ENNICHE:  To place in a niche. Sterne. 

ENNOBLER:  One who ennobles. 

ENNUI:  A feeling of weariness and disgust; dullness and languor of spirits, arising from satiety or want of interest; tedium. T. Gray. 

ENNUYE:  Affected with ennui; weary in spirits; emotionally exhausted. 

ENNUYE:  One who is affected with ennui. 

ENNUYEE:  A woman affected with ennui. Mrs. Jameson. 

ENODAL:  Without a node. Gray. 

ENODATION:  The act or operation of clearing of knots, or of untying; hence, also, the solution of a difficulty. [R.] Bailey. 

ENODE:  To clear of knots; to make clear. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

ENOINT:  Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENOMOTARCH:  The commander of an enomoty. Mitford. 

ENOMOTY:  A band of sworn soldiers; a division of the Spartan army ranging from twenty-five to thirty-six men, bound together by oath. 

ENOPLA:  One of the orders of Nemertina, characterized by the presence of a peculiar armature of spines or plates in the proboscis. 

ENOPTOMANCY:  Divination by the use of a mirror. 

ENORM:  Enormous. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENORMOUSLY:  In an enormous degree. 

ENORMOUSNESS:  The state of being enormous. 

ENORTHOTROPE:  An optical toy; a card on which confused or imperfect figures are drawn, but which form to the eye regular figures when the card is rapidly revolved. See Thaumatrope. 

ENOUGH:  Satisfying desire; giving content; adequate to meet the want; sufficient; -- usually, and more elegantly, following the noun to which it belongs. How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare! Luke xv. 17. 

ENOUGH:  A sufficiency; a quantity which satisfies desire, is adequate to the want, or is equal to the power or ability; as, he had enough to do take care of himself. "Enough is as good as a feast." And Esau said, I have enough, my brother. Gen. xxxiii. 9. 

ENOUGH:  An exclamation denoting sufficiency, being a shortened form of it is enough. 

ENOUNCEMENT:  Act of enouncing; that which is enounced. 

ENOW:  A form of Enough. [Archaic] Shak.  EN PASSANT En` pas`sant". [F.]  In passing; in the course of any procedure; -- said specif. (Chess),  of the taking of an adverse pawn which makes a first move of two squares by a pawn already so advanced as to threaten the first of these squares. The pawn which takes en passant is advanced to the threatened square. 

ENPATRON:  To act the part of a patron towards; to patronize. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENPIERCE:  To pierce. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENQUERE:  To inquire. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENQUICKEN:  To quicken; to make alive. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

ENQUIRE:  See Inquire. 

ENQUIRER:  See Inquirer. 

ENQUIRY:  See Inquiry. 

ENRACE:  To enroot; to implant. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENRAGE:  To fill with rage; to provoke to frenzy or madness; to make furious.  Syn.  -- To irritate; incense; inflame; exasperate; provoke; anger; madden; infuriate. 

ENRAGEMENT:  Act of enraging or state of being enraged; excitement. [Obs.] 

ENRANK:  To place in ranks or in order. [R.] Shak.  EN RAPPORT En` rap`port". [F.]  In accord, harmony, or sympathy; having a mutual, esp. a private, understanding; of a hypnotic subject, being in such a mental state as to be especially subject to the influence of a particular person or persons. 

ENRAPT:  Thrown into ecstasy; transported; enraptured. Shak. 

ENRAPTURE:  To transport with pleasure; to delight beyond measure; to enravish. Shenstone. 

ENRAVISH:  To transport with delight; to enrapture; to fascinate. Spenser. 

ENRAVISHINGLY:  So as to throw into ecstasy. 

ENRAVISHMENT:  The state of being enravished or enraptured; ecstasy; rapture. Glanvill. 

ENREGISTER:  To register; to enroll or record; to inregister. To read enregistered in every nook His goodness, which His beauty doth declare. Spenser. 

ENRHEUM:  To contract a rheum. [Obs.] Harvey. 

ENRICHER:  One who enriches. 

ENRICHMENT:  The act of making rich, or that which enriches; increase of value by improvements, embellishment, etc.; decoration; embellishment. 

ENRIDGE:  To form into ridges. Shak. 

ENRING:  To encircle. [R.] The Muses and the Graces, grouped in threes, Enringed a billowing fountain in the midst. Tennyson. 

ENRIPEN:  To ripen. [Obs.] Donne. 

ENRIVE:  To rive; to cleave. [Obs.] 

ENROBE:  To invest or adorn with a robe; to attire. 

ENROCKMENT:  A mass of large stones thrown into water at random to form bases of piers, breakwaters, etc. 

ENROLLER:  One who enrolls or registers. 

ENROOT:  To fix by the root; to fix fast; to implant deep. Shak. 

ENROUND:  To surround. [Obs.] Shak.  EN ROUTE En` route". Etym: [F.]  On the way or road. 

ENS:  Entity, being, or existence; an actually existing being; also, God, as the Being of Beings.  2. (Chem.)  Something supposed to condense within itself all the virtues and qualities of a substance from which it is extracted; essence. [Obs.] 

ENSAFE:  To make safe. [Obs.] Hall. 

ENSAMPLE:  An example; a pattern or model for imitation. [Obs.] Tyndale. Being ensamples to the flock. 

ENSAMPLE:  To exemplify, to show by example. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENSANGUINE:  To stain or cover with blood; to make bloody, or of a blood-red color; as, an ensanguined hue. "The ensanguined field." Milton. 

ENSATE:  Having sword-shaped leaves, or appendages; ensiform. 

ENSCALE:  To cover with scales. 

ENSCHEDULE:  To insert in a schedule. See Schedule. [R.] Shak. 

ENSCONCE:  To cover or shelter, as with a sconce or fort; to place or hide securely; to conceal. She shall not see me: I will ensconce me behind the arras. Shak. 

ENSEAL:  To impress with a seal; to mark as with a seal; hence, to ratify. [Obs.] This deed I do enseal. Piers Plowman. 

ENSEAM:  To sew up; to inclose by a seam; hence, to include; to contain. Camden. 

ENSEAM:  To cover with grease; to defile; to pollute. [Obs.] In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed. Shak. 

ENSEAR:  To sear; to dry up. [Obs.] Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb. Shak. 

ENSEARCH:  To make search; to try to find something. [Obs.] -- v. t.  To search for. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

ENSEEL:  To close eyes of; to seel; -- said in reference to a hawk. [Obs.] 

ENSEINT:  With child; pregnant. See Enceinte. [Obs.] 

ENSEMBLE:  The whole; all the parts taken together. 

ENSEMBLE:  All at once; together. 

ENSHELTER:  To shelter. [Obs.] 

ENSHIELD:  To defend, as with a shield; to shield. [Archaic] Shak. 

ENSHIELD:  Shielded; enshielded. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENSHRINE:  To inclose in a shrine or chest; hence, to preserve or cherish as something sacred; as, to enshrine something in memory. We will enshrine it as holy relic. Massinger. 

ENSHROUD:  To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to shroud. Churchill. 

ENSIFEROUS:  Bearing a sword. 

ENSIFORM:  Having the form of a sword blade; sword-shaped; as, an ensiform leaf. Ensiform cartilage, and Ensiform process. (Anat.) See Xiphisternum. 

ENSIGNCY:  The rank or office of an ensign. 

ENSIGNSHIP:  The state or rank of an ensign. 

ENSILAGE:  To preserve in a silo; as, to ensilage cornstalks. 

ENSILE:  To store (green fodder) in a silo; to prepare as silage. -- En"si*list (#), n. 

ENSKY:  To place in the sky or in heaven. [R.] "A thing enskied and sainted." Shak. 

ENSLAVE:  To reduce to slavery; to make a slave of; to subject to a dominant influence. The conquer'd, also, and enslaved by war, Shall, with their freedom lost, all virtue lose. Milton. Pleasure admitted in undue degree Enslaves the will. Cowper. 

ENSLAVEDNESS:  State of being enslaved. 

ENSLAVEMENT:  The act of reducing to slavery; state of being enslaved; bondage; servitude. A fresh enslavement to their enemies. South. 

ENSLAVER:  One who enslaves. Swift. 

ENSNARE:  To catch in a snare. See Insnare. 

ENSNARL:  To entangle. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENSOBER:  To make sober. [Obs.] Sad accidents to ensober his spirits. Jer. Taylor. 

ENSOUL:  To indue or imbue (a body) with soul. [R.] Emerson. 

ENSTAMP:  To stamp; to mark as It is the motive . . . which enstamps the character. Gogan. 

ENSTATE:  See Instate. 

ENSTATITE:  A mineral of the pyroxene group, orthorhombic in crystallization; often fibrous and massive; color grayish white or greenish. It is a silicate of magnesia with some iron. Bronzite is a ferriferous variety. 

ENSTATITIC:  Relating to enstatite. 

ENSTORE:  To restore. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

ENSTYLE:  To style; to name. [Obs.] 

ENSUABLE:  Ensuing; following. 

ENSUE:  To follow; to pursue; to follow and overtake. [Obs.] "Seek peace, and ensue it." 1 Pet. iii. 11. To ensue his example in doing the like mischief. Golding. 

ENSUE:  To follow or come afterward; to follow as a consequence or in chronological succession; to result; as, an ensuing conclusion or effect; the year ensuing was a cold one. So spoke the Dame, but no applause ensued. Pope. Damage to the mind or the body, or to both, ensues, unless the exciting cause be presently removed. I. Taylor.  Syn.  -- To follow; pursue; succeed. See Follow. 

ENSURER:  See Insurer. 

ENSWATHE:  To swathe; to envelop, as in swaddling clothes. Shak. 

ENSWATHEMENT:  The act of enswathing, or the state of being enswathed. 

ENSWEEP:  To sweep over or across; to pass over rapidly. [R.] Thomson.  ENT- Ent-.  A prefix signifying within. See Ento-.  -ENT -ent. Etym: [F. -ent, L. -ens, -entis.]  An adjective suffix signifying action or being; as, corrodent, excellent, emergent, continent, quiescent. See -ant. 

ENTABLATURE:  The superstructure which lies horizontally upon the columns. See Illust. of Column, Cornice.  Note: It is commonly divided into architrave, the part immediately above the column; frieze, the central space; and cornice, the upper projecting moldings. Parker. 

ENTABLEMENT:  See Entablature. [R.] Evelyn. 

ENTACKLE:  To supply with tackle. [Obs.] Skelton. 

ENTAD:  Toward the inside or central part; away from the surface; -- opposed to ectad. B. G. Wilder. 

ENTAL:  Pertaining to, or situated near, central or deep parts; inner; -- opposed to ectal. B. G. Wilder. 

ENTAME:  To tame. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENTANGLEMENT:  State of being entangled; intricate and confused involution; that which entangles; intricacy; perplexity. 

ENTANGLER:  One that entangles. 

ENTASIA:  Tonic spasm; -- applied generically to denote any disease characterized by tonic spasms, as tetanus, trismus, etc. 

ENTASIS:  A slight convex swelling of the shaft of a column.  2. (Med.)  Same as Entasia. 

ENTASSMENT:  A heap; accumulation. [R.] 

ENTASTIC:  Relating to any disease characterized by tonic spasms. 

ENTELECHY:  An actuality; a conception completely actualized, in distinction from mere potential existence. 

ENTELLUS:  An East Indian long-tailed bearded monkey (Semnopithecus entellus) regarded as sacred by the natives. It is remarkable for the caplike arrangement of the hair on the head. Called also hoonoomaun and hungoor. 

ENTEND:  To attend to; to apply one's self to. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENTENTIVE:  Attentive; zealous. [Obs.] Chaucer.  ENTER- En"ter-. Etym: [F. entre between, fr. L. inter. See Inter-]  A prefix signifying between, among, part. 

ENTERADENOGRAPHY:  A treatise upon, or description of, the intestinal glands. 

ENTERADENOLOGY:  The science which treats of the glands of the alimentary canal. 

ENTERALGIA:  Pain in the intestines; colic. 

ENTERDEAL:  Mutual dealings; intercourse. [Obs.] The enterdeal of princes strange. Spenser. 

ENTERER:  One who makes an entrance or beginning. A. Seward. 

ENTERIC:  Of or pertaining to the enteron, or alimentary canal; intestinal. Enteric fever (Med.), typhoid fever.  ENTERING EDGE; ENTRANT EDGE En"ter*ing edge or En"trant edge.  = Advancing edge. 

ENTERITIS:  An inflammation of the intestines. Hoblyn. 

ENTERLACE:  See Interlace. 

ENTERMETE:  To interfere; to intermeddle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENTERMEWER:  A hawk gradually changing the color of its feathers, commonly in the second year. 

ENTERMISE:  Mediation. [Obs.] 

ENTEROCELE:  A hernial tumor whose contents are intestine. 

ENTEROCOELE:  A perivisceral cavity which arises as an outgrowth or outgrowths from the digestive tract; distinguished from a schizocoele, which arises by a splitting of the mesoblast of the embryo. 

ENTEROGRAPHY:  A treatise upon, or description of, the intestines; enterology. 

ENTEROLITH:  An intestinal concretion. 

ENTEROLOGY:  The science which treats of the viscera of the body. 

ENTERON:  The whole alimentary, or enteric, canal. 

ENTEROPATHY:  Disease of the intestines. 

ENTEROPNEUSTA:  A group of wormlike invertebrates having, along the sides of the body, branchial openings for the branchial sacs, which are formed by diverticula of the alimentary canal. Balanoglossus is the only known genus. See Illustration in Appendix. 

ENTERORRHAPHY:  The operation of sewing up a rent in the intestinal canal. 

ENTEROTOME:  A kind of scissors used for opening the intestinal canal, as in post-mortem examinations. 

ENTEROTOMY:  Incision of the intestines, especially in reducing certain cases of hernia. 

ENTERPARLANCE:  Mutual talk or conversation; conference. [Obs.] Sir J. Hayward. 

ENTERPLEAD:  Same as Interplead. 

ENTERPRISE:  To undertake an enterprise, or something hazardous or difficult. [R.] Pope. 

ENTERPRISER:  One who undertakes enterprises. Sir J. Hayward. 

ENTERPRISING:  Having a disposition for enterprise; characterized by enterprise; resolute, active or prompt to attempt; as, an enterprising man or firm.  -- En"ter*pri`sing*ly, adv. 

ENTERTAIN:  To receive, or provide entertainment for, guests; as, he entertains generously. 

ENTERTAIN:  Entertainment. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENTERTAINER:  One who entertains. 

ENTERTAINING:  Affording entertainment; pleasing; amusing; diverting.  -- En`ter*tain"ing*ly, adv.  -- En`ter*tain"ing*ness, n. 

ENTERTAKE:  To entertain. [Obs.] 

ENTERTISSUED:  Same as Intertissued.  ENTHEAL; ENTHEAN En"the*al, En"the*an, a. Etym: [Gr.  Divinely inspired; wrought up to enthusiasm. [Obs.] 

ENTHEASM:  Inspiration; enthusiasm. [R.] "Religious entheasm." Byron. 

ENTHEASTIC:  Of godlike energy; inspired.  -- En`the*as"tic*al*ly, adv. 

ENTHEAT:  Divinely inspired. [Obs.] Drummond.  ENTHELMINTHA; ENTHELMINTHES En`thel*min"tha, En`thel*min"thes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  Intestinal worms. See Helminthes. 

ENTHETIC:  Caused by a morbifie virus implanted in the system; as, an enthetic disease like syphilis. 

ENTHRALL:  To hold in thrall; to enslave. See Inthrall. The bars survive the captive they enthrall. Byron. 

ENTHRALLMENT:  The act of enthralling, or state of being enthralled. See Inthrallment. 

ENTHRILL:  To pierce; to thrill. [Obs.] Sackville. 

ENTHRONE:  To induct, as a bishop, into the powers and privileges of a vacant see. 

ENTHRONEMENT:  The act of enthroning, or state of being enthroned. [Recent] 

ENTHRONIZATION:  The act of enthroning; hence, the admission of a bishop to his stall or throne in his cathedral. 

ENTHRONIZE:  To place on a throne; hence, to induct into office, as a bishop. There openly enthronized as the very elected king. Knolles. 

ENTHUSE:  To make or become enthusiastic. [Slang] 

ENTHUSIAST:  One moved or actuated by enthusiasm; as: (a) One who imagines himself divinely inspired, or possessed of some special revelation; a religious madman; a fanatic. (b) One whose mind is wholly possessed and heated by what engages it; one who is influenced by a peculiar; fervor of mind; an ardent and imaginative person. Enthusiasts soon understand each other. W. Irving.  Syn.  -- Visionary; fanatic; devotee; zealot.  ENTHUSIASTIC; ENTHUSIASTICAL En*thu`si*as"tic, En*thu`si*as"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Filled with enthusiasm; characterized by enthusiasm; zealous; as, an enthusiastic lover of art. "Enthusiastical raptures." Calamy.  -- En*thu`si*as"tic*al*ly, adv. A young man . . . of a visionary and enthusiastic character. W. Irving. 

ENTHUSIASTIC:  An enthusiast; a zealot. [Obs.]  ENTHYMEMATIC; ENTHYMEMATICAL En`thy*me*mat"ic, En`thy*me*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Pertaining to, or of the form of, an enthymeme. 

ENTHYMEME:  An argument consisting of only two propositions, an antecedent and consequent deduced from it; a syllogism with one premise omitted; as, We are dependent; therefore we should be humble. Here the major proposition is suppressed. The complete syllogism would be, Dependent creatures should be humble; we are dependent creatures; therefore we should be humble. 

ENTICE:  To draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract; as, the bait enticed the fishes. Often in a bad sense: To lead astray; to induce to evil; to tempt; as, the sirens enticed them to listen. Roses blushing as they blow, And enticing men to pull. Beau. & Fl. My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Prov. i. 10. Go, and thine erring brother gain, Entice him home to be forgiven. Keble.  Syn.  -- To allure; lure; coax; decoy; seduce; tempt; inveigle; incite; persuade; prevail on. See Allure. 

ENTICEABLE:  Capable of being enticed. 

ENTICER:  One who entices; one who incites or allures to evil. Burton. 

ENTICING:  That entices; alluring. 

ENTICINGLY:  In an enticing manner; charmingly. "She . . . sings most enticingly." Addison. 

ENTIERTY:  See Entirety. [Obs.] 

ENTIRE:  A name originally given to a kind of beer combining qualities of different kinds of beer. [Eng.] "Foker's Entire." Thackeray. 

ENTIRETY:  Designating, made of, or relating to, flour including a considerable part of the bran. 

ENTITATIVE:  Considered as pure entity; abstracted from all circumstances. Ellis.  -- En"ti*ta*tive*ly, adv. 

ENTITULE:  To entitle. B. Jonson. 

ENTITY:  A real being, whether in thought (as an ideal conception) or in fact; being; essence; existence. Self-subsisting entities, such as our own personality. Shairp. Fortune is no real entity, . . . but a mere relative signification. Bentley.  ENTO- En"to-. Etym: [Gr. In.]  A combining form signifying within; as, entoblast. 

ENTOBLAST:  The inner germ layer; endoderm. See Nucleolus. 

ENTOBRONCHIUM:  One of the main bronchi in the lungs of birds.  ENTOCUNEIFORM; ENTOCUNIFORM En`to*cu*ne"i*form, En`to*cu"ni*form, n. Etym: [Ento- + cuneiform, cuniform.] (Anat.)  One of the bones of the tarsus. See Cuneiform. 

ENTODERM:  See Endoderm, and Illust. of Blastoderm.  ENTODERMAL; ENTODERMIC En`to*der"mal, En`to*der"mic, a. (Biol.)  Relating to the entoderm. 

ENTOGASTRIC:  Pertaining to the interior of the stomach; -- applied to a mode of budding from the interior of the gastric cavity, in certain hydroids. 

ENTOGENOUS:  See Endogenous. 

ENTOGLOSSAL:  Within the tongue; -- applied to the glossohyal bone. 

ENTOIL:  To take with toils or bring into toils; to insnare. [R.] Entoiled in woofed phantasies. Keats. 

ENTOMB:  To deposit in a tomb, as a dead body; to bury; to inter; to inhume. Hooker. 

ENTOMBMENT:  The act of entombing or burying, or state of being entombed; burial. Barrow. 

ENTOMERE:  The more granular cells, which finally become internal, in many segmenting ova, as those of mammals.  ENTOMIC; ENTOMICAL En*tom"ic, En*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Entomology.] (Zoöl.)  Relating to insects; entomological. 

ENTOMOID:  Resembling an insect.  -- n.  An object resembling an insect. 

ENTOMOLIN:  See Chitin. 

ENTOMOLITE:  A fossil insect.  ENTOMOLOGIC; ENTOMOLOGICAL En`to*mo*log"ic, En`to*mo*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. entomologique.]  Of or relating to entomology.  -- En`to*mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ENTOMOLOGIST:  One versed in entomology. 

ENTOMOLOGIZE:  To collect specimens in the study of entomology. C. Kingsley. 

ENTOMOPHAGAN:  Relating to the Entomophaga.  -- n.  One of the Entomophaga. 

ENTOMOPHAGOUS:  Feeding on insects; insectivorous. 

ENTOMOPHILOUS:  Fertilized by the agency of insects; -- said of plants in which the pollen is carried to the stigma by insects. 

ENTOMOSTRACA:  One of the subclasses of Crustacea, including a large number of species, many of them minute. The group embraces several orders; as the Phyllopoda, Ostracoda, Copepoda, and Pectostraca. See Copepoda, Phyllopoda, and Cladocera. 

ENTOMOSTRACAN:  Relating to the Entomostraca.  -- n.  One of the Entomostraca. 

ENTOMOSTRACOUS:  Belonging to the Entomostracans. 

ENTOMOTOMIST:  One who practices entomotomy. 

ENTOMOTOMY:  The science of the dissection of insects. 

ENTONIC:  Having great tension, or exaggerated action. Dunglison. 

ENTOPERIPHERAL:  Being, or having its origin, within the external surface of the body; -- especially applied to feelings, such as hunger, produced by internal disturbances. Opposed to epiperipheral. 

ENTOPHYTE:  A vegetable parasite subsisting in the interior of the body. 

ENTOPHYTIC:  Of or pertaining to entophytes; as, an entophytic disease. 

ENTOPLASTIC:  Pertaining to, or composed of, entoplasm; as, the entoplastic products of some Protozoa, or the entoplastic modification of the cell protoplasm, by which a nucleus is produced. 

ENTOPLASTRON:  The median plate of the plastron of turtles; -- called also entosternum. 

ENTOPROCTA:  A group of Bryozoa in which the anus is within the circle of tentacles. See Pedicellina. 

ENTOPTIC:  Relating to objects situated within the eye; esp., relating to the perception of objects in one's own eye. 

ENTORGANISM:  An internal parasitic organism. 

ENTORTILATION:  A turning into a circle; round figures. [Obs.] Donne. 

ENTOSTERNUM:  See Entoplastron.  -- En`to*ster"nal, a. 

ENTOSTHOBLAST:  The granule within the nucleolus or entoblast of a nucleated cell. Agassiz. 

ENTOTHORAX:  See Endothorax. 

ENTOTIC:  Pertaining to the interior of the ear. 

ENTOURAGE:  Surroundings; specif., collectively, one's attendants or associates.  The entourage and mode of life of the mikados were not such as to make of them able rulers. B. H. Chamberlain. 

ENTOZOA:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, the Entozoa.  ENTOZOOLOGIST; ENTOZOOELOGIST En`to*zo*öl"o*gist, n. Etym: [Entozoön + -logy + -ist.]  One versed in the science of the Entozoa.  ENTOZOON; ENTOZOOEN En`to*zo"ön, n.; pl. Entozoa. Etym: [NL. See Entozoa.] (Zoöl.)  One of the Entozoa.  ENTR'ACTE En`tr'acte", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Interact.]  1. The interval of time which occurs between the performance of any two acts of a drama.  2. A dance, piece of music, or interlude, performed between two acts of a drama. 

ENTRAIL:  To interweave; to intertwine. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENTRAIL:  Entanglement; fold. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENTRAIN:  To draw along as a current does; as, water entrained by steam. 

ENTRAIN:  To put aboard a railway train; as, to entrain a regiment. [Recent, Eng.] 

ENTRAIN:  To go aboard a railway train; as, the troops entrained at the station. [Recent, Eng.] 

ENTRAMMEL:  To trammel; to entangle. Bp. Hacket. 

ENTRANCEMENT:  The act of entrancing, or the state of trance or ecstasy. Otway. 

ENTRAP:  To catch in a trap; to insnare; hence, to catch, as in a trap, by artifices; to involve in difficulties or distresses; to catch or involve in contradictions; as, to be entrapped by the devices of evil men. A golden mesh, to entrap the hearts of men. Shak.  Syn.  -- To insnare; inveigle; tangle; decoy; entangle. 

ENTREAT:  Entreaty. [Obs.] Ford. 

ENTREATABLE:  That may be entreated. 

ENTREATANCE:  Entreaty. [Obs.] Fairfax. 

ENTREATER:  One who entreats; one who asks earnestly; a beseecher. 

ENTREATFUL:  Full of entreaty. [R.] See Intreatful. 

ENTREATINGLY:  In an entreating manner. 

ENTREATIVE:  Used in entreaty; pleading. [R.] "Entreative phrase." A. Brewer. 

ENTREATMENT:  Entreaty; invitation. [Obs.] Shak. 

ENTREE:  In French usage, a dish served at the beginning of dinner to give zest to the appetite; in English usage, a side dish, served with a joint, or between the courses, as a cutlet, scalloped oysters, etc. 

ENTREMETS:  A side dish; a dainty or relishing dish usually eaten after the joints or principal dish; also, a sweetmeat, served with a dinner.  2. Any small entertainment between two greater ones. [R.] 

ENTRENCH:  See Intrench. 

ENTREPOT:  A warehouse; a magazine for depositing goods, stores, etc.; a mart or place where merchandise is deposited; as, an entrepôt for shipping goods in transit. 

ENTREPRENEUR:  One who creates a product on his own account; whoever undertakes on his own account an industrial enterprise in which workmen are employed. F. A. Walker. 

ENTRESOL:  A low story between two higher ones, usually between the ground floor and the first story; mezzanine. Parker. 

ENTRICK:  To trick, to perplex. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

ENTROCHAL:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, entrochites, or the joints of encrinites; -- used of a kind of stone or marble. 

ENTROCHITE:  A fossil joint of a crinoid stem. 

ENTROPION:  Same as Entropium. 

ENTROPIUM:  The inversion or turning in of the border of the eyelids. 

ENTROPY:  A certain property of a body, expressed as a measurable quantity, such that when there is no communication of heat the quantity remains constant, but when heat enters or leaves the body the quantity increases or diminishes. If a small amount, h, of heat enters the body when its temperature is t in the thermodynamic scale the entropy of the body is increased by h . The entropy is regarded as measured from some standard temperature and pressure. Sometimes called the thermodynamic function. The entropy of the universe tends towards a maximum. Clausius. 

ENTRUST:  See Intrust. 

ENTRY:  The exhibition or depositing of a ship's papers at the customhouse, to procure license to land goods; or the giving an account of a ship's cargo to the officer of the customs, and obtaining his permission to land the goods. See Enter, v. t., 8, and Entrance, n.,  5.  5. (Law) (a) The actual taking possession of lands or tenements, by entering or setting foot on them. (b) A putting upon record in proper form and order. (c) The act in addition to breaking essential to constitute the offense or burglary. Burrill. Bill of entry. See under Bill.  -- Double entry, Single entry. See Bookkeeping.  -- Entry clerk (Com.), a clerk who makes the original entries of transactions in a business.  -- Writ of entry (Law), a writ issued for the purpose of obtaining possession of land from one who has unlawfully entered and continues in possession. Bouvier. 

ENTRYNG:  Am entrance. [Obs.] So great an entryng and so large. Chaucer. 

ENTUNE:  To tune; to intone. Chaucer. 

ENTWINE:  To twine, twist, or wreathe together or round. [Written also intwine.] Entwined in duskier wreaths her braided locks. Shelley. Thy glorious household stuff did me entwine. Herbert. 

ENTWINE:  To be twisted or twined. With whose imperial laurels might entwine no cypress. De Quincey. 

ENTWINEMENT:  A twining or twisting together or round; union. Bp. Hacket. 

ENTWIST:  To twist or wreathe round; to intwine. Shak. 

ENUBILATE:  To clear from mist, clouds, or obscurity. [R.] Bailey. 

ENUBILOUS:  Free from fog, mist, or clouds; clear. [R.] 

ENUCLEATE:  To remove without cutting (as a tumor).  3. To bring to light; to make clear. Sclater (1654). 

ENUCLEATION:  The act of enucleating; elucidation; exposition. Neither sir, nor water, nor food, seem directly to contribute anything to the enucleation of this disease. Tooke. 

ENUMERATE:  To count; to tell by numbers; to count over, or tell off one after another; to number; to reckon up; to mention one by one; to name over; to make a special and separate account of; to recount; as, to enumerate the stars in a constellation. Enumerating the services he had done. Ludlow.  Syn.  -- To reckon; compute; calculate; count; estimate; relate; rehearse; recapitulate; detail. 

ENUMERATION:  A recapitulation, in the peroration, of the heads of an argument. 

ENUMERATIVE:  Counting, or reckoning up, one by one. Enumerative of the variety of evils. Jer. Taylor. 

ENUMERATOR:  One who enumerates. 

ENUNCIABLE:  Capable of being enunciated or expressed. 

ENUNCIATE:  To utter words or syllables articulately. 

ENUNCIATIVE:  Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation; declarative. Ayliffe.  -- E*nun"ci*a*tive*ly, adv. 

ENUNCIATOR:  One who enunciates or proclaims. 

ENUNCIATORY:  Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation or utterance. 

ENURE:  See Inure. 

ENURESIS:  An involuntary discharge of urine; incontinence of urine. 

ENVASSAL:  To make a vassal of. [Obs.] 

ENVAULT:  To inclose in a vault; to entomb. [R.] Swift. 

ENVEIGLE:  To entice. See Inveigle. 

ENVELOP:  To put a covering about; to wrap up or in; to inclose within a case, wrapper, integument or the like; to surround entirely; as, to envelop goods or a letter; the fog envelops a ship. Nocturnal shades this world envelop. J. Philips.  ENVELOPE; ENVELOP En"vel*ope, En*vel"op, n. Etym: [F. enveloppe.]  1. That which envelops, wraps up, encases, or surrounds; a wrapper; an inclosing cover; esp., the cover or wrapper of a document, as of a letter.  2. (Astron.)  The nebulous covering of the head or nucleus of a comet; -- called also coma.  3. (Fort.)  A work of earth, in the form of a single parapet or of a small rampart. It is sometimes raised in the ditch and sometimes beyond it. Wilhelm.  4. (Geom.)  A curve or surface which is tangent to each member of a system of curves or surfaces, the form and position of the members of the system being allowed to vary according to some continuous law. Thus, any curve is the envelope of its tangents. push the envelope. It is used to refer to the maximum performance available at the current state of the technology, and therefore refers to a class of machines in general, not a specific machine. push the envelope Increase the capability of some type of machine or system; -- usu. by technological development. 

ENVENIME:  To envenom. [Obs.] 

ENVERMEIL:  To color with, or as with, vermilion; to dye red. [Obs.] Milton. 

ENVIABLE:  Fitted to excite envy; capable of awakening an ardent desire to posses or to resemble. One of most enviable of human beings. Macaulay. -- En"vi*a*ble*ness, n.  -- En"vi*a*bly, adv. 

ENVIE:  To vie; to emulate; to strive. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ENVIER:  One who envies; one who desires inordinately what another possesses. 

ENVIGOR:  To invigorate. [Obs.] 

ENVIRON:  To surround; to encompass; to encircle; to hem in; to be round about; to involve or envelop. Dwelling in a pleasant glade, With mountains round about environed. Spenser. Environed he was with many foes. Shak. Environ me with darkness whilst I write. Donne. 

ENVIRON:  About; around. [Obs.] Lord Godfrey's eye three times environ goes. Fairfax. 

ENVIRONS:  The parts or places which surround another place, or lie in its neighborhood; suburbs; as, the environs of a city or town. Chesterfield. 

ENVISAGE:  To look in the face of; to apprehend; to regard. [R.] Keats. From the very dawn of existence the infant must envisage self, and body acting on self. McCosh. 

ENVISAGEMENT:  The act of envisaging. 

ENVOLUME:  To form into, or incorporate with, a volume. [R.] 

ENVOLUP:  To wrap up; to envelop. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENVOY:  An explanatory or commendatory postscript to a poem, essay, or book; -- also in the French from, l'envoi. The envoy of a ballad is the "sending" of it forth. Skeat. 

ENVOYSHIP:  The office or position of an envoy. 

ENVYNED:  Stored or furnished with wine. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ENWALL:  See Inwall. Sir P. Sidney. 

ENWALLOW:  To plunge into, or roll in, flith; to wallow. So now all three one senseless lump remain, Enwallowed in his own black bloody gore. Spenser. 

ENWHEEL:  To encircle. Shak. 

ENWIDEN:  To widen. [Obs.] 

ENWIND:  To wind about; to encircle. In the circle of his arms Enwound us both. Tennyson. 

ENWOMAN:  To endow with the qualities of a woman. [R.] Daniel. 

ENWRAP:  To envelop. See Inwrap. 

ENWRAPMENT:  Act of enwrapping; a wrapping or an envelope. Shuckford. 

ENWREATHE:  See Inwreathe. Shelton.  ENZOOTIC; ENZOOETIC En`zo*öt"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. enzoötique.]  Afflicting animals; -- used of a disease affecting the animals of a district. It corresponds to an endemic disease among men. 

ENZYME:  An unorganized or unformed ferment, in distinction from an organized or living ferment; a soluble, or chemical, ferment. Ptyalin, pepsin, diastase, and rennet are good examples of enzymes. 

EOCENE:  Pertaining to the first in time of the three subdivisions into which the Tertiary formation is divided by geologists, and alluding to the approximation in its life to that of the present era; as, Eocene deposits.  -- n.  The Eocene formation. Lyell. 

EOLIAN:  Formed, or deposited, by the action of wind, as dunes. Eolian attachment, Eolian harp. See Æolian. 

EOLIC:  See Æolic. 

EOLIPILE:  Same as Æolipile. 

EOLIS:  A genus of nudibranch mollusks having clusters of branchial papillæ along the back. See Ceratobranchia. [Written also Æolis.]  EON; AEON E"on, Æ"on, n. Etym: [L. aeon, fr. Gr. a'iwn space or period of time, lifetime, age; akin to L. aevum. See Age.]  1. An immeasurable or infinite space of time; eternity; a long space of time; an age. The eons of geological time. Huxley.  2. (Gnostic Philos.)  One of the embodiments of the divine attributes of the Eternal Being. Among the higher Æons are Mind, Reason, Power, Truth, and Life. Am. Cyc.  Note: Eons were considered to be emanations sent forth by God from the depths of His grand solitude to fulfill various functions in the material and spiritual universe. 

EOPHYTE:  A fossil plant which is found in the lowest beds of the Silurian age. 

EOPHYTIC:  Of or pertaining to eophytes. 

EOS:  Aurora, the goddess of morn. 

EOSAURUS:  An extinct marine reptile from the coal measures of Nova Scotia; -- so named because supposed to be of the earliest known reptiles. 

EOSIN:  A yellow or brownish red dyestuff obtained by the action of bromine on fluoresceïn, and named from the fine rose-red which it imparts to silk. It is also used for making a fine red ink. Its solution is fluorescent. 

EOSPHORITE:  A hydrous phosphate of alumina and manganese. It is generally of a rose-pink color, -- whence the name. 

EOZOIC:  Of or pertaining to rocks or strata older than the Paleozoic, in many of which the eozoön has been found.  Note: This term has been proposed for the strata formerly called Azoic, and is preferred especially by those geologists who regard the eozoön as of organic origin. See Archæan.  EOZOON; EOZOOEN E`o*zo"ön, n.; pl. Eozoöns, L. Eozoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. 'hw`s dawn + zw^,on an animal.] (Paleon.)  A peculiar structure found in the Archæan limestones of Canada and other regions. By some geologists it is believed to be a species of gigantic Foraminifera, but others consider it a concretion, without organic structure.  EOZOONAL; EOZOOENAL E`o*zo"ön*al, a. (Paleon.)  Pertaining to the eozoön; containing eozoöns; as, eozoönal limestone.  EP- Ep-. Etym: [Gr.  See Epi-. 

EPACRIS:  A genus of shrubs, natives of Australia, New Zealand, etc., having pretty white, red, or purple blossoms, and much resembling heaths. 

EPACT:  The moon's age at the beginning of the calendar year, or the number of days by which the last new moon has preceded the beginning of the year. Annual epact, the excess of the solar year over the lunar year, -- being eleven days.  -- Menstrual epact, or Monthly epact, the excess of a calendar month over a lunar. 

EPAGOGE:  The adducing of particular examples so as to lead to a universal conclusion; the argument by induction. 

EPAGOGIC:  Inductive. Latham. 

EPALATE:  Without palpi. 

EPANADIPLOSIS:  A figure by which the same word is used both at the beginning and at the end of a sentence; as, "Rejoice in the Lord always: and again I say, Rejoice." Phil. iv. 4. 

EPANALEPSIS:  A figure by which the same word or clause is repeated after intervening matter. Gibbs. 

EPANAPHORA:  Same as Anaphora. Gibbs. 

EPANASTROPHE:  Same as Anadiplosis. Gibbs. 

EPANODOS:  A figure of speech in which the parts of a sentence or clause are repeated in inverse order, as in the following: -- O more exceeding love, or law more just Just law, indeed, but more exceeding love! Milton. 

EPANODY:  The abnormal change of an irregular flower to a regular form; - - considered by evolutionists to be a reversion to an ancestral condition. 

EPANORTHOSIS:  A figure by which a speaker recalls a word or words, in order to substitute something else stronger or more significant; as, Most brave! Brave, did I say most heroic act! 

EPANTHOUS:  Growing upon flowers; -- said of certain species of fungi. 

EPARCH:  In ancient Greece, the governor or perfect of a province; in modern Greece, the ruler of an eparchy. 

EPARCHY:  A province, prefecture, or territory, under the jurisdiction of an eparch or governor; esp., in modern Greece, one of the larger subdivisions of a monarchy or province of the kingdom; in Russia, a diocese or archdiocese. 

EPARTERIAL:  Situated upon or above an artery; -- applied esp. to the branches of the bronchi given off above the point where the pulmonary artery crosses the bronchus. 

EPAULE:  The shoulder of a bastion, or the place where its face and flank meet and form the angle, called the angle of the shoulder. 

EPAULEMENT:  A side work, made of gabions, fascines, or bags, filled with earth, or of earth heaped up, to afford cover from the flanking fire of an enemy.  EPAULET; EPAULETTE Ep"au*let`, Ep"au*lette`, n. Etym: [F. épaulette, dim. of épaule shoulder, fr. L. spatula a broad piece (LL., shoulder), dim. of spatha abroad, flat instrument, fr. Gr. Spade the instrument, and cf. Epaule, Spatula.] (Mil.)  A shoulder ornament or badge worn by military and naval officers, differences of rank being marked by some peculiar form or device, as a star, eagle, etc.; a shoulder knot.  Note: In the United States service the epaulet is reserved for full dress uniform. Its use was abolished in the British army in 1855.  EPAULETED; EPAULETTED Ep"au*let`ed, Ep"au*let`ted, a.  Wearing epaulets; decorated with epaulets. 

EPAXIAL:  Above, or on the dorsal side of, the axis of the skeleton; episkeletal. 

EPEIRA:  A genus of spiders, including the common garden spider (E. diadema). They spin geometrical webs. See Garden spider. 

EPEN:  See Epencephalon. 

EPENCEPHALON:  The segment of the brain next behind the midbrain, including the cerebellum and pons; the hindbrain. Sometimes abbreviated to epen. 

EPENDYMA:  The epithelial lining of the ventricles of the brain and the canal of the spinal cord; endyma; ependymis. 

EPENDYMIS:  See Ependyma. 

EPENETIC:  Bestowing praise; eulogistic; laudatory. [Obs.] E. Phillips. 

EPENTHESIS:  The insertion of a letter or a sound in the body of a word; as, the b in "nimble" from AS. nemol. 

EPENTHETIC:  Inserted in the body of a word; as, an epenthetic letter or sound. 

EPERGNE:  A centerpiece for table decoration, usually consisting of several dishes or receptacles of different sizes grouped together in an ornamental design. 

EPERLAN:  The European smelt (Osmerus eperlanus). 

EPEXEGESIS:  A full or additional explanation; exegesis. 

EPEXEGETICAL:  Relating to epexegesis; explanatory; exegetical.  EPHAH; EPHA E"phah, or E"pha, n. Etym: [Heb.  A Hebrew dry measure, supposed to be equal to two pecks and five quarts. ten ephahs make one homer. 

EPHEMERA:  A fever of one day's continuance only.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of insects including the day flies, or ephemeral flies. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral. 

EPHEMERAL:  Anything lasting but a day, or a brief time; an ephemeral plant, insect, etc. 

EPHEMERAN:  One of the ephemeral flies. 

EPHEMERIC:  Ephemeral. 

EPHEMERIS:  A collective name for reviews, magazines, and all kinds of periodical literature. Brande & C. 

EPHEMERON:  One of the ephemeral flies. 

EPHEMEROUS:  Ephemeral. [R.] Burke. 

EPHESIAN:  Of or pertaining to Ephesus, an ancient city of Ionia, in Asia Minor. 

EPHIALTES:  The nightmare. Brande & C. 

EPHIPPIAL:  Saddle-shaped; occupying an ephippium. Dana. 

EPHIPPIUM:  A depression in the sphenoid bone; the pituitary fossa.  2. (Zoöl.)  A saddle-shaped cavity to contain the winter eggs, situated on the back of Cladocera. 

EPHOD:  A part of the sacerdotal habit among Jews, being a covering for the back and breast, held together on the shoulders by two clasps or brooches of onyx stones set in gold, and fastened by a girdle of the same stuff as the ephod. The ephod for the priests was of plain linen; that for the high priest was richly embroidered in colors. The breastplate of the high priest was worn upon the ephod in front. Exodus xxviii. 6-12. 

EPHOR:  A magistrate; one of a body of five magistrates chosen by the people of ancient Sparta. They exercised control even over the king. 

EPHORAL:  Pertaining to an ephor. 

EPHORALTY:  The office of an ephor, or the body of ephors. 

EPHRAIM:  A hunter's name for the grizzly bear. 

EPHYRA:  A stage in the development of discophorous medusæ, when they first begin to swim about after being detached from the strobila. See Strobila.  EPI- Ep"i-. Etym: [Gr. api besides, and prob. to L. ob to, before, on account of, and perh. to E. of, off.]  A prefix, meaning upon, beside, among, on the outside, above, over. It becomes ep- before a vowel, as in epoch, and eph- before a Greek aspirate, as in ephemeral. 

EPIBLAST:  The outer layer of the blastoderm; the ectoderm. See Blastoderm, Delamination. 

EPIBLASTIC:  Of or relating to, or consisting of, the epiblast. 

EPIBLEMA:  The epidermal cells of rootlets, specially adapted to absorb liquids. Goodale. 

EPIBOLIC:  Growing or covering over; -- said of a kind of invagination. See under Invagination. 

EPIBOLY:  Epibolic invagination. See under Invagination. 

EPIBRANCHIAL:  Pertaining to the segment between the ceratobranchial and pharyngobranchial in a branchial arch.  -- n.  An epibranchial cartilage or bone. 

EPIC:  Narrated in a grand style; pertaining to or designating a kind of narrative poem, usually called an heroic poem, in which real or fictitious events, usually the achievements of some hero, are narrated in an elevated style. The epic poem treats of one great, complex action, in a grand style and with fullness of detail. T. Arnold. 

EPIC:  An epic or heroic poem. See Epic, a. 

EPICAL:  Epic.  -- Ep"ic*al*ly, adv. Poems which have an epical character. Brande & C. His [Wordsworth's] longer poems (miscalled epical). Lowell. 

EPICARDIAC:  Of or relating to the epicardium. 

EPICARDIUM:  That of the pericardium which forms the outer surface of the heart; the cardiac pericardium. 

EPICARICAN:  An isopod crustacean, parasitic on shrimps. 

EPICARP:  The external or outermost layer of a fructified or ripened ovary. See Illust. under Endocarp. 

EPICEDE:  A funeral song or discourse; an elegy. [R.] Donne. 

EPICEDIAL:  Elegiac; funereal. 

EPICEDIAN:  Epicedial.  -- n.  An epicede. 

EPICEDIUM:  An epicede. 

EPICENTRAL:  Arising from the centrum of a vertebra. Owen. 

EPICERASTIC:  Lenient; assuaging. [Obs.] 

EPICHIREMA:  A syllogism in which the proof of the major or minor premise, or both, is introduced with the premises themselves, and the conclusion is derived in the ordinary manner. [Written also epicheirema.] 

EPICHORDAL:  Upon or above the notochord; -- applied esp. to a vertebral column which develops upon the dorsal side of the notochord, as distinguished from a perichordal column, which develops around it. 

EPICHORIAL:  In or of the country. [R.] Epichorial superstitions from every district of Europe. De Quincey. 

EPICLEIDIUM:  A projection, formed by a separate ossification, at the scapular end of the clavicle of many birds. 

EPICLINAL:  Situated on the receptacle or disk of a flower.  EPICOELE; EPICELE Ep"i*coele, n. Etym: [Pref. epi- + Gr. (Anat.)  A cavity formed by the invagination of the outer wall of the body, as the atrium of an amphioxus and possibly the body cavity of vertebrates. 

EPICOENE:  Epicene. [R.] Hadley. 

EPICOLIC:  Situated upon or over the colon; -- applied to the region of the abdomen adjacent to the colon. 

EPICONDYLAR:  Pertaining to, or resembling, an epicondyle. 

EPICONDYLE:  A projection on the inner side of the distal end of the numerus; the internal condyle. 

EPICORACOID:  A ventral cartilaginous or bony element of the coracoid in the shoulder girdle of some vertebrates. 

EPICRANIAL:  Pertaining to the epicranium; as epicranial muscles. 

EPICRANIUM:  The upper and superficial part of the head, including the scalp, muscles, etc.  2. (Zoöl.)  The dorsal wall of the head of insects.  EPICTETAIN; EPICTETIAN Ep`ic*te"tain, Ep`ic*te"tian, a. Etym: [Gr.  Pertaining to Epictetus, the Roman Stoic philosopher, whose conception of life was to be passionless under whatever circumstances. 

EPICUREANISM:  Attachment to the doctrines of Epicurus; the principles or belief of Epicurus. 

EPICURELY:  Luxuriously. Nash. 

EPICUREOUS:  Epicurean. [Obs.] 

EPICYCLE:  A circle, whose center moves round in the circumference of a greater circle; or a small circle, whose center, being fixed in the deferent of a planet, is carried along with the deferent, and yet, by its own peculiar motion, carries the body of the planet fastened to it round its proper center. The schoolmen were like astronomers which did feign eccentries, and epicycles, and such engines of orbs. Bacon.  2. (Mech.)  A circle which rolls on the circumference of another circle, either externally or internally. 

EPICYCLIC:  Pertaining to, resembling, or having the motion of, an epicycle. Epicyclic train (Mach.), a train of mechanism in which epicyclic motion is involved; esp., a train of spur wheels, bevel wheels, or belt pulleys, in which an arm, carrying one or more of the wheels, sweeps around a center lying in an axis common to the other wheels. 

EPICYCLOID:  A curve traced by a point in the circumference of a circle which rolls on the convex side of a fixed circle.  Note: Any point rigidly connected with the rolling circle, but not in its circumference, traces a curve called an epitrochoid. The curve traced by a point in the circumference of the rolling circle when it rolls on the concave side of a fixed circle is called a hypocycloid; the curve traced by a point rigidly connected with the rolling circle in this case, but not its circumference, is called a hypotrochoid. All the curves mentioned above belong to the class class called roulettes or trochoids. See Trochoid. 

EPICYCLOIDAL:  Pertaining to the epicycloid, or having its properties. Epicycloidal wheel, a device for producing straight-line motion from circular motion, on the principle that a pin fastened in the periphery of a gear wheel will describe a straight line when the wheel rolls around inside a fixed internal gear of twice its diameter. 

EPIDEICTIC:  Serving to show forth, explain, or exhibit; -- applied by the Greeks to a kind of oratory, which, by full amplification, seeks to persuade.  EPIDEMIC; EPIDEMICAL Ep`i*dem"ic, Ep`i*dem"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. epidemus, Gr. épidémique. Cf. Demagogue.]  1. (Med.)  Common to, or affecting at the same time, a large number in a community; -- applied to a disease which, spreading widely, attacks many persons at the same time; as, an epidemic disease; an epidemic catarrh, fever, etc. See Endemic.  2. Spreading widely, or generally prevailing; affecting great numbers, as an epidemic does; as, epidemic rage; an epidemic evil. It was the epidemical sin of the nation. Bp. Burnet. 

EPIDEMIC:  An epidemic disease.  2. Anything which takes possession of the minds of people as an epidemic does of their bodies; as, an epidemic of terror. 

EPIDEMICALLY:  In an epidemic manner. 

EPIDEMIOGRAPHY:  A treatise upon, or history of, epidemic diseases. 

EPIDEMIOLOGICAL:  Connected with, or pertaining to, epidemiology. 

EPIDEMIOLOGIST:  A person skilled in epidemiology. 

EPIDEMIOLOGY:  That branch of science which treats of epidemics. 

EPIDEMY:  An epidemic disease. Dunglison. 

EPIDERM:  The epidermis. 

EPIDERMAL:  Of or pertaining to the epidermis; epidermic; cuticular. 

EPIDERMATIC:  Epidermal. [R.] 

EPIDERMATOID:  Epidermoid. Owen. 

EPIDERMEOUS:  Epidermal. [R.] 

EPIDERMIC:  Epidermal; connected with the skin or the bark. Epidermic administration of medicine (Med.), the application of medicine to the skin by friction. 

EPIDERMICAL:  Epidermal. [R.] 

EPIDERMIDAL:  Epidermal. [R.] 

EPIDERMIS:  The outer, nonsensitive layer of the skin; cuticle; scarfskin. See Dermis.  2. (Bot.)  The outermost layer of the cells, which covers both surfaces of leaves, and also the surface of stems, when they are first formed. As stems grow old this layer is lost, and never replaced. 

EPIDERMOID:  Like epidermis; pertaining to the epidermis. 

EPIDERMOSE:  Keratin.  EPIDICTIC; EPIDICTICAL Ep`i*dic"tic, Ep`i*dic"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. epidictius. See Epideictic.]  Serving to explain; demonstrative. 

EPIDIDYMIS:  An oblong vermiform mass on the dorsal side of the testicle, composed of numerous convolutions of the excretory duct of that organ.  -- Ep`i*did"y*mal, a. 

EPIDIDYMITIS:  Inflammation of the epididymis, one of the common results of gonorrhea. 

EPIDOTE:  A mineral, commonly of a yellowish green (pistachio) color, occurring granular, massive, columnar, and in monoclinic crystals. It is a silicate of alumina, lime, and oxide of iron, or manganese.  Note: The Epidote group includes ordinary epidote, zoisite or lime epidote, piedmontite or manganese epidote, allanite or serium epidote. 

EPIDOTIC:  Related to, resembling, or containing epidote; as, an epidotic granite. 

EPIGAEA:  An American genus of plants, containing but a single species (E. repens), the trailing arbutus. 

EPIGAEOUS:  Growing on, or close to, the ground. 

EPIGASTRIAL:  Epigastric. 

EPIGASTRIC:  Pertaining to the epigastrium, or to the epigastric region.  2. (Zoöl.)  Over the stomach; -- applied to two of the areas of the carapace of crabs. Epigastric region. (Anat.) (a) The whole upper part of the abdomen. (b) An arbitrary division of the abdomen above the umbilical and between the two hypochondriac regions. 

EPIGASTRIUM:  The upper part of the abdomen. 

EPIGEAL:  Epigæous. [R.] 

EPIGEE:  See Perigee. [Obs.] 

EPIGENE:  Foreign; unnatural; unusual; -- said of forms of crystals not natural to the substances in which they are found.  2. (Geol.)  Formed originating on the surface of the earth; -- opposed to hypogene; as, epigene rocks. 

EPIGENESIS:  The theory of generation which holds that the germ is created entirely new, not merely expanded, by the procreative power of the parents. It is opposed to the theory of evolution, also to syngenesis. 

EPIGENESIST:  One who believes in, or advocates the theory of, epigenesis. 

EPIGENETIC:  Of or pertaining to the epigenesis; produced according to the theory of epigenesis. 

EPIGEOUS:  Same as Epigæous. 

EPIGEUM:  See Perigee. [Obs.] 

EPIGLOTTIC:  Pertaining to, or connected with, the epiglottis. 

EPIGLOTTIDEAN:  Same as Epiglottic. 

EPIGLOTTIS:  A cartilaginous lidlike appendage which closes the glottis while food or drink is passing while food or drink is passing through the pharynx. 

EPIGNATHOUS:  Hook-billed; having the upper mandible longer than the lower. 

EPIGRAMMATICALLY:  In the way of epigram; in an epigrammatic style. 

EPIGRAMMATIST:  One who composes epigrams, or makes use of them. The brisk epigrammatist showing off his own cleverness. Holmes. 

EPIGRAMMATIZE:  To represent by epigrams; to express by epigrams. 

EPIGRAMMATIZER:  One who writes in an affectedly pointed style. Epigrammatizers of our English prose style. Coleridge. 

EPIGRAMMIST:  An epigrammatist. Jer. Taylor. 

EPIGRAPH:  A citation from some author, or a sentence framed for the purpose, placed at the beginning of a work or of its separate divisions; a motto.  EPIGRAPHIC; EPIGRAPHICAL Ep`i*graph"ic, Ep`i*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to epigraphs or to epigraphy; as, an epigraphic style; epigraphical works or studies. 

EPIGRAPHICS:  The science or study of epigraphs. 

EPIGRAPHIST:  A student of, or one versed in, epigraphy. 

EPIGRAPHY:  The science of inscriptions; the art of engraving inscriptions or of deciphering them. 

EPIGYNOUS:  Adnate to the surface of the ovary, so as to be apparently inserted upon the top of it; -- said of stamens, petals, sepals, and also of the disk. 

EPIHYAL:  A segment next above the ceratohyal in the hyoidean arch. 

EPILEPSY:  The "falling sickness," so called because the patient falls suddenly to the ground; a disease characterized by paroxysms (or fits) occurring at interval and attended by sudden loss of consciousness, and convulsive motions of the muscles. Dunglison. 

EPILEPTIC:  Pertaining to, affected with, or of the nature of, epilepsy. 

EPILEPTICAL:  Epileptic. 

EPILEPTIFORM:  Resembling epilepsy. 

EPILEPTOGENOUS:  Producing epilepsy or epileptoid convulsions; -- applied to areas of the body or of the nervous system, stimulation of which produces convulsions. 

EPILEPTOID:  Resembling epilepsy; as, epileptoid convulsions. 

EPILOGATION:  A summing up in a brief account. [Obs.] Udall.  EPILOGIC; EPILOGICAL Ep`i*log"ic, Ep`i*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to an epilogue. 

EPILOGISM:  Enumeration; computation. [R.] J. Gregory. 

EPILOGISTIC:  Of or pertaining to epilogue; of the nature of an epilogue. T. Warton. 

EPILOGIZE:  To speak an epilogue to; to utter as an epilogue. 

EPILOGUE:  A speech or short poem addressed to the spectators and recited by one of the actors, after the conclusion of the play. A good play no epilogue, yet . . . good plays prove the better by the help of good epilogues. Shak.  2. (Rhet.)  The closing part of a discourse, in which the principal matters are recapitulated; a conclusion. 

EPILOGUIZE:  Same as Epilogize. 

EPIMACHUS:  A genus of highly ornate and brilliantly colored birds of Australia, allied to the birds of Paradise. 

EPIMERA:  See Epimeron. 

EPIMERAL:  Pertaining to the epimera. 

EPIMERE:  One of the segments of the transverse axis, or the so called homonymous parts; as, for example, one of the several segments of the extremities in vertebrates, or one of the similar segments in plants, such as the segments of a segmented leaf. Syd. Soc. Lex. 

EPINASTIC:  A term applied to that phase of vegetable growth in which an organ grows more rapidly on its upper than on its under surface. See Hyponastic. 

EPINEURAL:  Arising from the neurapophysis of a vertebra. 

EPINEURIUM:  The connective tissue framework and sheath of a nerve which bind together the nerve bundles, each of which has its own special sheath, or perineurium. 

EPINGLETTE:  An iron needle for piercing the cartridge of a cannon before priming. 

EPINICIAL:  Relating to victory. "An epinicial song." T. Warton. 

EPINICION:  A song of triumph. [Obs.] T. Warton. 

EPINIKIAN:  Epinicial. 

EPIORNIS:  One of the gigantic ostrichlike birds of the genus Æpiornis, only recently extinct. Its remains have been found in Madagascar. [Written also Æpyornis.] 

EPIOTIC:  The upper and outer element of periotic bone, -- in man forming a part of the temporal bone. 

EPIPEDOMETRY:  The mensuration of figures standing on the same base. [Obs.] 

EPIPERIPHERAL:  Connected with, or having its origin upon, the external surface of the body; -- especially applied to the feelings which originate at the extremities of nerves distributed on the outer surface, as the sensation produced by touching an object with the finger; -- opposed to entoperipheral. H. Spenser. 

EPIPETALOUS:  Borne on the petals or corolla. 

EPIPHANY:  A church festival celebrated on the 6th of January, the twelfth day after Christmas, in commemoration of the visit of the Magi of the East to Bethlehem, to see and worship the child Jesus; or, as others maintain, to commemorate the appearance of the star to the Magi, symbolizing the manifestation of Christ to the Gentles; Twelfthtide. 

EPIPHARYNGEAL:  Pertaining to the segments above the epibranchial in the branchial arches of fishes.  -- n.  An epipharyngeal bone or cartilage. 

EPIPHARYNX:  A structure which overlaps the mouth of certain insects. 

EPIPHONEMA:  An exclamatory sentence, or striking reflection, which sums up or concludes a discourse. 

EPIPHONEME:  Epiphonema. [R.] 

EPIPHORA:  The watery eye; a disease in which the tears accumulate in the eye, and trickle over the cheek.  2. (Rhet.)  The emphatic repetition of a word or phrase, at the end of several sentences or stanzas. 

EPIPHRAGM:  A membranaceous or calcareous septum with which some mollusks close the aperture of the shell during the time of hibernation, or æstivation. 

EPIPHYLLOSPERMOUS:  Bearing fruit on the back of the leaves, as ferns. Harris (1710). 

EPIPHYLLOUS:  Growing upon, or inserted into, the leaf. 

EPIPHYLLUM:  A genus of cactaceous plants having flattened, jointed stems, and petals united in a tube. The flowers are very showy, and several species are in cultivation.  EPIPHYSEAL; EPIPHYSIAL Ep`i*phys"e*al, Ep`i*phys"i*al, (Anat.)  Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an epiphysis. 

EPIPHYTAL:  Pertaining to an epiphyte. 

EPIPHYTE:  An air plant which grows on other plants, but does not derive its nourishment from them. See Air plant.  2. (Med.)  A vegetable parasite growing on the surface of the body.  EPIPHYTIC; EPIPHYTICAL Ep`i*phyt"ic, Ep`i*phyt"ic*al, a. (Bot.)  Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an epiphyte.  -- Ep`i*phyt"ic*al*ly, adv. 

EPIPLASTRON:  One of the first pair of lateral plates in the plastron of turtles. 

EPIPLEURAL:  Arising from the pleurapophysis of a vertebra. Owen. 

EPIPLEXIS:  A figure by which a person seeks to convince and move by an elegant kind of upbraiding. 

EPIPLOCE:  A figure by which one striking circumstance is added, in due gradation, to another; climax; e. g., "He not only spared his enemies, but continued them in employment; not only continued, but advanced them." Johnson. 

EPIPLOIC:  Relating to the epiploön.  EPIPLOON; EPIPLOOEN E*pip"lo*ön, n.; pl. Epiploa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)  See Omentum. 

EPIPODIAL:  Pertaining to the epipodialia or the parts of the limbs to which they belong.  2. (Zoöl.)  Pertaining to the epipodium of Mollusca. 

EPIPODIALE:  One of the bones of either the forearm or shank, the epipodialia being the radius, ulna, tibia, and fibula. 

EPIPODITE:  The outer branch of the legs in certain Crustacea. See Maxilliped. 

EPIPODIUM:  One of the lateral lobes of the foot in certain gastropods. 

EPIPOLIC:  Producing, or relating to, epipolism or fluorescence. [R.] 

EPIPOLISM:  See Fluorescence. [R.] Sir J. Herschel. 

EPIPOLIZED:  Changed to the epipolic condition, or that in which the phenomenon of fluorescence is presented; produced by fluorescence; as, epipolized light. [R.] Stokes. 

EPIPTERIC:  Pertaining to a small Wormian bone sometimes present in the human skull between the parietal and the great wing of the sphenoid.  -- n.  The epipteric bone. 

EPIPTERYGOID:  Situated upon or above the pterygoid bone.  -- n.  An epipterygoid bone or cartilage; the columella in the skulls of many lizards. 

EPIPUBIC:  Relating to the epipubis. 

EPIPUBIS:  A cartilage or bone in front of the pubis in some amphibians and other animals. 

EPISCOPACY:  Government of the church by bishops; church government by three distinct orders of ministers -- bishops, priests, and deacons -- of whom the bishops have an authority superior and of a different kind. 

EPISCOPALIAN:  Pertaining to bishops, or government by bishops; episcopal; specifically, of or relating to the Protestant Episcopal Church. 

EPISCOPALIAN:  One who belongs to an episcopal church, or adheres to the episcopal form of church government and discipline; a churchman; specifically, in the United States, a member of the Protestant Episcopal Church. 

EPISCOPALIANISM:  The doctrine and usages of Episcopalians; episcopacy. 

EPISCOPALLY:  By episcopal authority; in an episcopal manner. 

EPISCOPANT:  A bishop. [Obs.] Milton. 

EPISCOPARIAN:  Episcopal. [R.] Wood. 

EPISCOPATE:  To act as a bishop; to fill the office of a prelate. [Obs.] Feeding the flock episcopating. Milton. 

EPISCOPICIDE:  The killing of a bishop. 

EPISCOPIZE:  To make a bishop of by consecration. Southey. 

EPISCOPIZE:  To perform the duties of a bishop. 

EPISEPALOUS:  Growing on the sepals or adnate to them. 

EPISKELETAL:  Above or outside of the endoskeleton; epaxial. 

EPISODAL:  Same as Episodic. 

EPISODE:  A separate incident, story, or action, introduced for the purpose of giving a greater variety to the events related; an incidental narrative, or digression, separable from the main subject, but naturally arising from it. 

EPISODIAL:  Pertaining to an episode; by way of episode; episodic.  EPISODIC; EPISODICAL Ep`i*so"dic, Ep`i*so"dic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. épisodique. See Episode.]  Of or pertaining to an episode; adventitious.  -- Ep`i*so"dic*al*ly, adv. Such a figure as Jacob Brattle, purely episodical though it be, is an excellent English portrait. H. James. 

EPISPADIAS:  A deformity in which the urethra opens upon the top of the penis, instead of at its extremity. 

EPISPASTIC:  Attracting the humors to the skin; exciting action in the skin; blistering. 

EPISPASTIC:  An external application to the skin, which produces a puriform or serous discharge by exciting inflammation; a vesicatory. 

EPISPERM:  The skin or coat of a seed, especially the outer coat. See Testa. 

EPISPERMIC:  Pertaining, or belonging, to the episperm, or covering of a seed. 

EPISPORE:  The thickish outer coat of certain spores. 

EPISTAXIS:  Bleeding at the nose. 

EPISTEMOLOGY:  The theory or science of the method or grounds of knowledge. 

EPISTERNAL:  Of or pertaining to the episternum. 

EPISTERNUM:  One of the lateral pieces next to the sternum in the thorax of insects. 

EPISTILBITE:  A crystallized, transparent mineral of the Zeolite family. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. 

EPISTLE:  One of the letters in the New Testament which were addressed to their Christian brethren by Apostles. Epistle side, the right side of an altar or church to a person looking from the nave toward the chancel. One sees the pulpit on the epistle side. R. Browning. 

EPISTLE:  To write; to communicate in a letter or by writing. [Obs.] Milton. 

EPISTLER:  The ecclesiastic who reads the epistle at the communion service. 

EPISTOLAR:  Epistolary. Dr. H. More. 

EPISTOLEAN:  One who writes epistles; a correspondent. Mary Cowden Clarke. 

EPISTOLER:  One of the clergy who reads the epistle at the communion service; an epistler. 

EPISTOLET:  A little epistle. Lamb.  EPISTOLIC; EPISTOLICAL Ep`is*tol"ic, Ep`is*tol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. epistolicus, Gr.  Pertaining to letters or epistles; in the form or style of letters; epistolary. 

EPISTOLIZE:  To write epistles. 

EPISTOLIZER:  A writer of epistles. 

EPISTOLOGRAPHIC:  Pertaining to the writing of letters; used in writing letters; epistolary. Epistolographic character or mode of writing, the same as Demotic character. See under Demotic. 

EPISTOLOGRAPHY:  The art or practice of writing epistles.  EPISTOMA; EPISTOME E*pis"to*ma, Ep"i*stome, n. Etym: [NL. epistoma, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) (a) The region between the antennæ and the mouth, in Crustacea. (b) A liplike organ that covers the mouth, in most Bryozoa. See Illust., under Entoprocta. 

EPISTROPHE:  A figure in which successive clauses end with the same word or affirmation; e. g., "Are they Hebrews so am I. Are they Israelites so am I." 2 Cor. xi. 22. 

EPISTYLE:  A massive piece of stone or wood laid immediately on the abacus of the capital of a column or pillar; -- now called architrave. 

EPISYLLOGISM:  A syllogism which assumes as one of its premises a proposition which was the conclusion of a preceding syllogism, called, in relation to this, the prosyllogism. 

EPITAPH:  To commemorate by an epitaph. [R.] Let me be epitaphed the inventor of English hexameters. G. Harvey. 

EPITAPH:  To write or speak after the manner of an epitaph. [R.] The common in their speeches epitaph upon him . . . "He lived as a wolf and died as a dog." Bp. Hall. 

EPITAPHER:  A writer of epitaphs. Nash.  EPITAPHIAL; EPITAPHIAN Ep`i*taph"i*al, Ep`i*taph"i*an, a.  Relating to, or of the nature of, an epitaph. The noble Pericles in his epitaphian speech. Milton. Epitaphial Latin verses are not to be taken too literally. Lowell. 

EPITAPHIC:  Pertaining to an epitaph; epitaphian.  -- n.  An epitaph. Udall. 

EPITAPHIST:  An epitapher. 

EPITASIS:  The period of violence in a fever or disease; paroxysm. Dunglison. 

EPITHALAMIC:  Belonging to, or designed for, an epithalamium. 

EPITHALAMIUM:  A nuptial song, or poem in honor of the bride and bridegroom. The kind of poem which was called epithalamium . . . sung when the bride was led into her chamber. B. Jonson. 

EPITHALAMY:  Epithalamium. [R.] Donne. 

EPITHECA:  A continuous and, usually, structureless layer which covers more or less of the exterior of many corals. 

EPITHELIAL:  Of or pertaining to epithelium; as, epithelial cells; epithelial cancer. 

EPITHELIOID:  Like epithelium; as, epithelioid cells. 

EPITHELIOMA:  A malignant growth containing epithelial cells; -- called also epithelial cancer. 

EPITHELIUM:  The superficial layer of cells lining the alimentary canal and all its appendages, all glands and their ducts, blood vessels and lymphatics, serous cavities, etc. It often includes the epidermis (i. e., keratin-producing epithelial cells), and it is sometimes restricted to the alimentary canal, the glands and their appendages, -- the term endothelium being applied to the lining membrane of the blood vessels, lymphatics, and serous cavities. 

EPITHELOID:  Epithelioid. 

EPITHEM:  Any external topical application to the body, except ointments and plasters, as a poultice, lotion, etc. 

EPITHEMA:  A horny excrescence upon the beak of birds. 

EPITHESIS:  The addition of a letter at the end of a word, without changing its sense; as, numb for num, whilst for whiles. 

EPITHET:  To describe by an epithet. [R.] Never was a town better epitheted. Sir H. Wotton.  EPITHETIC; EPITHETICAL Ep`i*thet"ic, Ep`i*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Pertaining to, or abounding with, epithets. "In epithetic measured prose." Lloyd. 

EPITHITE:  A lazy, worthless fellow; a vagrant. [Obs.] Mason. 

EPITHUMETIC:  Epithumetical. [Obs.] 

EPITHUMETICAL:  Pertaining to sexual desire; sensual. Sir T. Browne. 

EPITITHIDES:  The uppermost member of the cornice of an entablature. 

EPITOMATOR:  An epitomist. Sir W. Hamilton. 

EPITOMIST:  One who makes an epitome; one who abridges; an epitomizer. Milton. 

EPITOMIZER:  An epitomist. Burton. 

EPITRITE:  A foot consisting of three long syllables and one short syllable.  Note: It is so called from being compounded of a spondee (which contains 4 times) with an iambus or a trochee (which contains 3 times). It is called 1st, 2d, 3d, or 4th epitrite according as the short syllable stands 1st, 2d, etc. 

EPITROCHLEA:  A projection on the outer side of the distal end of the humerus; the external condyle. 

EPITROCHLEAR:  Relating to the epitrochlea. 

EPITROCHOID:  A kind of curve. See Epicycloid, any Trochoid. 

EPITROPE:  A figure by which permission is either seriously or ironically granted to some one, to do what he proposes to do; e. g., "He that is unjust, let him be unjust still." 

EPIZEUXIS:  A figure by which a word is repeated with vehemence or emphasis, as in the following lines: - Alone, alone, all all alone, Alone on a wide wide sea. Coleridge. 

EPIZOAN:  An epizoön. 

EPIZOAN:  An epizoön. 

EPIZOIC:  Living upon the exterior of another animal; ectozoic; -- said of external parasites. 

EPIZOIC:  Living upon the exterior of another animal; ectozoic; -- said of external parasites.  EPIZOON; EPIZOOEN Ep`i*zo"ön, n.; pl. Epizoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  One of the artificial group of invertebrates of various kinds, which live parasitically upon the exterior of other animals; an ectozoön. Among them are the lice, ticks, many acari, the lerneans, or fish lice, and other crustaceans.  EPIZOOTIC; EPIZOOETIC Ep`i*zo*öt"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. épizoötique.]  1. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to an epizoön.  2. (Geol.)  Containing fossil remains; -- said of rocks, formations, mountains, and the like. [Obs.] Epizoötic mountains are of secondary formation. Kirwan.  3. Of the nature of a disease which attacks many animals at the same time; -- corresponding to epidemic diseases among men.  EPIZOOTY; EPIZOOETY; EPIZOOTIC; EPIZOOETIC Ep`i*zo"ö*ty, Ep`i*zo*öt"ic, n. Etym: [F. épizoötie.]  An epizoötic disease; a murrain; an epidemic influenza among horses. 

EPOCH:  A division of time characterized by the prevalence of similar conditions of the earth; commonly a minor division or part of a period. The long geological epoch which stored up the vast coal measures. J. C. Shairp.  4. (Astron.) (a) The date at which a planet or comet has a longitude or position. (b) An arbitrary fixed date, for which the elements used in computing the place of a planet, or other heavenly body, at any other date, are given; as, the epoch of Mars; lunar elements for the epoch March 1st, 1860.  Syn.  -- Era; time; date; period; age.  -- Epoch, Era. We speak of the era of the Reformation, when we think of it as a period, during which a new order of things prevailed; so also, the era of good feeling, etc. Had we been thinking of the time as marked by certain great events, or as a period in which great results were effected, we should have called the times when these events happened epochs, and the whole period an epoch. The capture of Constantinople is an epoch in the history of Mahometanism; but the flight of Mahomet is its era. C. J. Smith. 

EPOCHA:  See Epoch. J. Adams. 

EPOCHAL:  Belonging to an epoch; of the nature of an epoch. "Epochal points." Shedd. 

EPODIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, an epode.  EPONYM; EPONYME Ep"o*nym, Ep"o*nyme, n. Etym: [Cf. F. éponyme. See Eponymous.]  1. The hypothetical individual who is assumed as the person from whom any race, city, etc., took its name; as, Hellen is an eponym of the Hellenes.  2. A name, as of a people, country, and the like, derived from that of an individual. 

EPONYMIC:  Same as Eponymous. Tablets . . . which bear eponymic dates. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 

EPONYMIST:  One from whom a race, tribe, city, or the like, took its name; an eponym. 

EPONYMOUS:  Relating to an eponym; giving one's name to a tribe, people, country, and the like. What becomes . . . of the Herakleid genealogy of the Spartan kings, when it is admitted that eponymous persons are to be canceled as fictions Grote. 

EPONYMY:  The derivation of the name of a race, tribe, etc., from that of a fabulous hero, progenitor, etc.  EPOOPHORON; EPOOEPHORON Ep`o*öph"o*ron, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Anat.)  See Parovarium.  EPOPEE; EPOPOEIA Ep"o*pee`, Ep`o*poe"ia, n. Etym: [F. épopée, Gr. Epos.]  An epic poem; epic poetry. 

EPOPT:  One instructed in the mysteries of a secret system. Carlyle. 

EPOS:  An epic. 

EPOTATION:  A drinking up; a quaffing. [Obs.] Feltham. 

EPROUVETTE:  An apparatus for testing or proving the strength of gunpowder. 

EPSOMITE:  Native sulphate of magnesia or Epsom salt.  EPSOM SALTS; EPSOM SALT Ep"som salts` or Ep"som salt`. (Med.)  Sulphate of magnesia having cathartic qualities; -- originally prepared by boiling down the mineral waters at Epsom, England, -- whence the name; afterwards prepared from sea water; but now from certain minerals, as from siliceous hydrate of magnesia. 

EPULARY:  Of or pertaining to a feast or banquet. [Obs.] Smart. 

EPULATION:  A feasting or feast; banquet. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EPULIS:  A hard tumor developed from the gums. 

EPULOSE:  Feasting to excess. [Obs.] 

EPULOSITY:  A feasting to excess. [Obs.] 

EPULOTIC:  Promoting the skinning over or healing of sores; as, an epulotic ointment.  -- n.  An epulotic agent. 

EPURATION:  Purification. 

EPURE:  A draught or model from which to build; especially, one of the full size of the work to be done; a detailed drawing.  EPWORTH LEAGUE Ep"worth League.  A religious organization of Methodist young people, founded in 1889 at Cleveland, Ohio, and taking its name from John Wesley's birthplace, Epworth, Lincolnshire, England. 

EQUABILITY:  The quality or condition of being equable; evenness or uniformity; as, equability of temperature; the equability of the mind. For the celestial bodies, the equability and constancy of their motions argue them ordained by wisdom. Ray. 

EQUABLENESS:  Quality or state of being equable. 

EQUABLY:  In an equable manner. 

EQUAL:  Intended for voices of one kind only, either all male or all female; -- opposed to mixed. [R.]  7. (Math.)  Exactly agreeing with respect to quantity. Equal temperament. (Mus.) See Temperament.  Syn.  -- Even; equable; uniform; adequate; proportionate; commensurate; fair; just; equitable. 

EQUALITARIAN:  One who believes in equalizing the condition of men; a leveler. 

EQUALITY:  Exact agreement between two expressions or magnitudes with respect to quantity; -- denoted by the symbol =; thus, a = x signifies that a contains the same number and kind of units of measure that x does. Confessional equality. See under Confessional. 

EQUALIZATION:  The act of equalizing, or state of being equalized. Their equalization with the rest of their fellow subjects. Burke. 

EQUALIZER:  One who, or that which, equalizes anything. 

EQUALLY:  In an equal manner or degree in equal shares or proportion; with equal and impartial justice; without difference; alike; evenly; justly; as, equally taxed, furnished, etc. 

EQUALNESS:  Equality; evenness. Shak. 

EQUANGULAR:  Having equal angles; equiangular. [R.] Johnson. 

EQUANIMITY:  Evenness of mind; that calm temper or firmness of mind which is not easily elated or depressed; patience; calmness; composure; as, to bear misfortunes with equanimity. 

EQUANIMOUS:  Of an even, composed frame of mind; of a steady temper; not easily elated or depressed. Bp. Gauden. 

EQUANT:  A circle around whose circumference a planet or the center of ann epicycle was conceived to move uniformly; -- called also eccentric equator. 

EQUATE:  To make equal; to reduce to an average; to make such an allowance or correction in as will reduce to a common standard of comparison; to reduce to mean time or motion; as, to equate payments; to equate lines of railroad for grades or curves; equated distances. Palgrave gives both scrolle and scrowe and equates both to F[rench] rolle. Skeat (Etymol. Dict. ). Equating for grades (Railroad Engin.), adding to the measured distance one mile for each twenty feet of ascent.  -- Equating for curves, adding half a mile for each 360 degrees of curvature. 

EQUATION:  An expression of the condition of equality between two algebraic quantities or sets of quantities, the sign = being placed between them; as, a binomial equation; a quadratic equation; an algebraic equation; a transcendental equation; an exponential equation; a logarithmic equation; a differential equation, etc.  3. (Astron.)  A quantity to be applied in computing the mean place or other element of a celestial body; that is, any one of the several quantities to be added to, or taken from, its position as calculated on the hypothesis of a mean uniform motion, in order to find its true position as resulting from its actual and unequal motion. Absolute equation. See under Absolute.  -- Equation box, or Equational box, a system of differential gearing used in spinning machines for regulating the twist of the yarn. It resembles gearing used in equation clocks for showing apparent time.  -- Equation of the center (Astron.), the difference between the place of a planet as supposed to move uniformly in a circle, and its place as moving in an ellipse.  -- Equations of condition (Math.), equations formed for deducing the true values of certain quantities from others on which they depend, when different sets of the latter, as given by observation, would yield different values of the quantities sought, and the number of equations that may be found is greater than the number of unknown quantities.  -- Equation of a curve (Math.), an equation which expresses the relation between the coördinates of every point in the curve.  -- Equation of equinoxes (Astron.), the difference between the mean and apparent places of the equinox.  -- Equation of payments (Arith.), the process of finding the mean time of payment of several sums due at different times.  -- Equation of time (Astron.), the difference between mean and apparent time, or between the time of day indicated by the sun, and that by a perfect clock going uniformly all the year round.  -- Equation clock or watch, a timepiece made to exhibit the differences between mean solar and apparent solar time. Knight.  -- Normal equation. See under Normal.  -- Personal equation (Astron.), the difference between an observed result and the true qualities or peculiarities in the observer; particularly the difference, in an average of a large number of observation, between the instant when an observer notes a phenomenon, as the transit of a star, and the assumed instant of its actual occurrence; or, relatively, the difference between these instants as noted by two observers. It is usually only a fraction of a second; -- sometimes applied loosely to differences of judgment or method occasioned by temperamental qualities of individuals.  -- Theory of equations (Math.), the branch of algebra that treats of the properties of a single algebraic equation of any degree containing one unknown quantity. 

EQUATOR:  The imaginary great circle on the earth's surface, everywhere equally distant from the two poles, and dividing the earth's surface into two hemispheres.  2. (Astron.)  The great circle of the celestial sphere, coincident with the plane of the earth's equator; -- so called because when the sun is in it, the days and nights are of equal length; hence called also the equinoctial, and on maps, globes, etc., the equinoctial line. Equator of the sun or of a planet (Astron.), the great circle whose plane passes through through the center of the body, and is perpendicular to its axis of revolution.  -- Magnetic equator. See Aclinic. 

EQUATORIAL:  Of or pertaining to the equator; as, equatorial climates; also, pertaining to an equatorial instrument. 

EQUATORIAL:  An instrument consisting of a telescope so mounted as to have two axes of motion at right angles to each other, one of them parallel to the axis of the earth, and each carrying a graduated circle, the one for measuring declination, and the other right ascension, or the hour angle, so that the telescope may be directed, even in the daytime, to any star or other object whose right ascension and declination are known. The motion in right ascension is sometimes communicated by clockwork, so as to keep the object constantly in the field of the telescope. Called also an equatorial telescope.  Note: The term equatorial, or equatorial instrument, is sometimes applied to any astronomical instrument which has its principal axis of rotation parallel to the axis of the earth. 

EQUATORIALLY:  So as to have motion or direction parallel to the equator. 

EQUERY:  Same as Equerry. 

EQUESTRIAN:  One who rides on horseback; a horseman; a rider. 

EQUESTRIANISM:  The art of riding on horseback; performance on horseback; horsemanship; as, feats equestrianism. 

EQUESTRIENNE:  A woman skilled in equestrianism; a horsewoman.  EQUI- E"qui-. Etym: [L. aequus equal. See Equal.]  A prefix, meaning equally; as, equidistant; equiangular. 

EQUIANGLED:  Equiangular. [Obs.] Boyle. 

EQUIANGULAR:  Having equal angles; as, an equiangular figure; a square is equiangular. Equiangular spiral. (Math.) See under Spiral, n.  -- Mutually equiangular, applied to two figures, when every angle of the one has its equal among the angles of the other. 

EQUIBALANCE:  Equal weight; equiponderance. 

EQUIBALANCE:  To make of equal weight; to balance equally; to counterbalance; to equiponderate. 

EQUICRESCENT:  Increasing by equal increments; as, an equicrescent variable. 

EQUICRURAL:  Having equal legs or sides; isosceles. [R.] "Equicrural triangles." Sir T. Browne. 

EQUICRURE:  Equicrural. [Obs.] 

EQUIDIFFERENT:  Having equal differences; as, the terms of arithmetical progression are equidifferent. 

EQUIDISTANCE:  Equal distance. 

EQUIDISTANT:  Being at an equal distance from the same point or thing.  -- E`qui*dis"tant*ly, adv. Sir T. Browne. 

EQUIDIURNAL:  Pertaining to the time of equal day and night; -- applied to the equinoctial line. Whewell. 

EQUIFORM:  Having the same form; uniform.  -- E`qui*for"mi*ty, n. Sir T. Browne. 

EQUILATERAL:  Having all the sides equal; as, an equilateral triangle; an equilateral polygon. Equilateral hyperbola (Geom.), one whose axes are equal.  -- Equilateral shell (Zoöl.), one in which a transverse line drawn through the apex of the umbo bisects the valve, or divides it into two equal and symmetrical parts.  -- Mutually equilateral, applied to two figures, when every side of the one has its equal among the sides of the other. 

EQUILATERAL:  A side exactly corresponding, or equal, to others; also, a figure of equal sides. 

EQUILIBRATE:  To balance two scales, sides, or ends; to keep even with equal weight on each side; to keep in equipoise. H. Spenser. 

EQUILIBRATION:  The process by which animal and vegetable organisms preserve a physiological balance. H. Spenser. 

EQUILIBRIOUS:  Evenly poised; balanced. Dr. H. More.  -- E`qui*lib"ri*ous*ly, adv. 

EQUILIBRIST:  One who balances himself in unnatural positions and hazardous movements; a balancer. When the equilibrist balances a rod upon his finger. Stewart. 

EQUILIBRITY:  The state of being balanced; equality of weight. [R.] J. Gregory. 

EQUIMOMENTAL:  Having equal moments of inertia.  Note: Two bodies or systems of bodies are said to be equimomental when their moments of inertia about all straight lines are equal each to each. Equimomental cone of a given rigid body, a conical surface that has any given vertex, and is described by a straight line which moves in such manner that the moment of inertia of the given rigid body about the line is in all its positions the same. 

EQUIMULTIPLE:  Multiplied by the same number or quantity. 

EQUIMULTIPLE:  One of the products arising from the multiplication of two or more quantities by the same number or quantity. Thus, seven times 2, or 14, and seven times 4, or 28, are equimultiples of 2 and 4. 

EQUINAL:  See Equine. "An equinal shape." Heywood. 

EQUINE:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a horse. The shoulders, body, things, and mane are equine; the head completely bovine. Sir J. Barrow. 

EQUINIA:  Glanders. 

EQUINOCTIAL:  The equinoctial line. 

EQUINOCTIALLY:  Towards the equinox. 

EQUINUMERANT:  Equal as to number. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. 

EQUIPAGED:  Furnished with equipage. Well dressed, well bred. Well equipaged, is ticket good enough. Cowper. 

EQUIPARABLE:  Comparable. [Obs. or R.] 

EQUIPARATE:  To compare. [R.] 

EQUIPEDAL:  Equal-footed; having the pairs of feet equal. 

EQUIPENDENCY:  The act or condition of hanging in equipoise; not inclined or determined either way. South. 

EQUIPENSATE:  To weigh equally; to esteem alike. [Obs.] 

EQUIPOISE:  Sameness of signification of two or more propositions which differ in language. 

EQUIPOLLENT:  Having equivalent signification and reach; expressing the same thing, but differently. 

EQUIPOLLENTLY:  With equal power. Barrow.  EQUIPONDERANCE; EQUIPONDERANCY E`qui*pon"der*ance, E`qui*pon"der*an*cy, n. Etym: [Equi- + ponderance: cf. F. équipondérance.]  Equality of weight; equipoise. 

EQUIPONDERANT:  Being of the same weight. A column of air . . . equiponderant to a column of quicksilver. Locke. 

EQUIPONDERATE:  To be equal in weight; to weigh as much as another thing. Bp. Wilkins. 

EQUIPONDERATE:  To make equal in weight; to counterbalance. "More than equiponderated the declension in that direction." De Quincey. 

EQUIPONDEROUS:  Having equal weight. Bailey. 

EQUIPONDIOUS:  Of equal weight on both sides; balanced. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

EQUIPOTENTIAL:  Having the same potential. Equipotential surface, a surface for which the potential is for all points of the surface constant. Level surfaces on the earth are equipotential. 

EQUIRADICAL:  Equally radical. [R.] Coleridge. 

EQUIROTAL:  Having wheels of the same size or diameter; having equal rotation. [R.] 

EQUISETACEOUS:  Belonging to the Equisetaceæ, or Horsetail family. 

EQUISETIFORM:  Having the form of the equisetum. 

EQUISETUM:  A genus of vascular, cryptogamic, herbaceous plants; -- also called horsetails.  Note: The Equiseta have hollow jointed stems and no true leaves. The cuticle often contains siliceous granules, so that one species (E. hyemale) is used for scouring and polishing, under the name of Dutch rush or scouring rush. 

EQUISONANCE:  An equal sounding; the consonance of the unison and its octaves. 

EQUISONANT:  Of the same or like sound. 

EQUITABLE:  That can be sustained or made available or effective in a court of equity, or upon principles of equity jurisprudence; as, an equitable estate; equitable assets, assignment, mortgage, etc. Abbott.  Syn.  -- Just; fair; reasonable; right; honest; impartial; candid; upright. 

EQUITABLENESS:  The quality of being equitable, just, or impartial; as, the equitableness of a judge, a decision, or distribution of property. 

EQUITABLY:  In an equitable manner; justly; as, the laws should be equitably administered. 

EQUITANCY:  Horsemanship. 

EQUITANT:  Overlapping each other; -- said of leaves whose bases are folded so as to overlap and bestride the leaves within or above them, as in the iris. 

EQUITATION:  A riding, or the act of riding, on horseback; horsemanship. The pretender to equitation mounted. W. Irving. 

EQUITEMPORANEOUS:  Contemporaneous. [Obs.] Boyle. 

EQUITES:  An order of knights holding a middle place between the senate and the commonalty; members of the Roman equestrian order. 

EQUITY:  An equitable claim; an equity of redemption; as, an equity to a settlement, or wife's equity, etc. I consider the wife's equity to be too well settled to be shaken. Kent.  3. (Law)  A system of jurisprudence, supplemental to law, properly so called, and complemental of it. Equity had been gradually shaping itself into a refined science which no human faculties could master without long and intense application. Macaulay.  Note: Equitable jurisprudence in England and in the United States grew up from the inadequacy of common-law forms to secure justice in all cases; and this led to distinct courts by which equity was applied in the way of injunctions, bills of discovery, bills for specified performance, and other processes by which the merits of a case could be reached more summarily or more effectively than by common-law suits. By the recent English Judicature Act (1873), however, the English judges are bound to give effect, in common-law suits, to all equitable rights and remedies; and when the rules of equity and of common law, in any particular case, conflict, the rules of equity are to prevail. In many jurisdictions in the United States, equity and common law are thus blended; in others distinct equity tribunals are still maintained. See Chancery. Equity of redemption (Law), the advantage, allowed to a mortgageor, of a certain or reasonable time to redeem lands mortgaged, after they have been forfeited at law by the nonpayment of the sum of money due on the mortgage at the appointed time. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- Right; justice; impartiality; rectitude; fairness; honesty; uprightness. See Justice. 

EQUIVALENCE:  To be equivalent or equal to; to counterbalance. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

EQUIVALENCY:  Same as Equivalence. 

EQUIVALENT:  Equal in measure but not admitting of superposition; -- applied to magnitudes; as, a square may be equivalent to a triangle.  3. (Geol.)  Contemporaneous in origin; as, the equivalent strata of different countries. 

EQUIVALENT:  That comparative quantity by weight of an element which possesses the same chemical value as other elements, as determined by actual experiment and reference to the same standard. Specifically: (a) The comparative proportions by which one element replaces another in any particular compound; thus, as zinc replaces hydrogen in hydrochloric acid, their equivalents are 32.5 and 1. (b) The combining proportion by weight of a substance, or the number expressing this proportion, in any particular compound; as, the equivalents of hydrogen and oxygen in water are respectively 1 and 8, and in hydric dioxide 1 and 16.  Note: This term was adopted by Wollaston to avoid using the conjectural expression atomic weight, with which, however, for a time it was practically synonymous. The attempt to limit the term to the meaning of a universally comparative combining weight failed, because of the possibility of several compounds of the substances by reason of the variation in combining power which most elements exhibit. The equivalent was really identical with, or a multiple of submultiple of, the atomic weight.  3. (Chem.)  A combining unit, whether an atom, a radical, or a molecule; as, in acid salt two or more equivalents of acid unite with one or more equivalents of base. Mechanical equivalent of heat (Physics), the number of units of work which the unit of heat can perform; the mechanical energy which must be expended to raise the temperature of a unit weight of water from 0º C. to 1º C., or from 32º F. to 33º F. The term was introduced by Dr. Mayer of Heilbronn. Its value was found by Joule to be 1390 foot pounds upon the Centigrade, or 772 foot pounds upon the Fahrenheit, thermometric scale, whence it is often called Joule's equivalent, and represented by the symbol J. This is equal to 424 kilogram meters (Centigrade scale). A more recent determination by Professor Rowland gives the value 426.9 kilogram meters, for the latitude of Baltimore. 

EQUIVALENT:  To make the equivalent to; to equal; equivalence. [R.] 

EQUIVALENTLY:  In an equal manner. 

EQUIVALUE:  To put an equal value upon; to put (something) on a par with another thing. W. Taylor.  EQUIVALVE; EQUIVALVED E"qui*valve, E"qui*valved, a. Etym: [Equi- + valve.] (Zoöl.)  Having the valves equal in size and from, as in most bivalve shells. 

EQUIVALVULAR:  Same as Equivalve or Equivalved. 

EQUIVOCACY:  Equivocalness. 

EQUIVOCAL:  A word or expression capable of different meanings; an ambiguous term; an equivoque. In languages of great ductility, equivocals like that just referred to are rarely found. Fitzed. Hall. 

EQUIVOCALLY:  In an equivocal manner. 

EQUIVOCALNESS:  The state of being equivocal. 

EQUIVOCATE:  To use words of equivocal or doubtful signification; to express one's opinions in terms which admit of different senses, with intent to deceive; to use ambiguous expressions with a view to mislead; as, to equivocate is the work of duplicity. All that Garnet had to say for him was that he supposed he meant to equivocate. Bp. Stillingfleet.  Syn.  -- To prevaricate; evade; shuffle; quibble. See Prevaricate. 

EQUIVOCATE:  To render equivocal or ambiguous. He equivocated his vow by a mental reservation. Sir G. Buck. 

EQUIVOCATION:  The use of expressions susceptible of a double signification, with a purpose to mislead. There being no room for equivocations, there is no need of distinctions. Locke.  Syn.  -- Prevarication; ambiguity; shuffling; evasion; guibbling. See Equivocal, a., and Prevaricate, v. i. 

EQUIVOCATOR:  One who equivocates. Here's an equivocator that could swear in both the scales against either scale, yet could not equivocate to heaven. Shak. 

EQUIVOCATORY:  Indicating, or characterized by, equivocation.  EQUIVOQUE; EQUIVOKE Eq"ui*voque, Eq"ui*voke, n. Etym: [F. équivoque. See Equivocal.]  1. An ambiguous term; a word susceptible of different significations. Coleridge.  2. An equivocation; a guibble. B. Jonson. 

EQUIVOROUS:  Feeding on horseflesh; as, equivorous Tartars. 

EQUUS:  A genus of mammals, including the horse, ass, etc.  -ER -er  .  1. Etym: [AS. -ere; akin to L. -arius.]  The termination of many English words, denoting the agent; -- applied either to men or things; as in hater, farmer, heater, grater. At the end of names of places, -er signifies a man of the place; as, Londoner, i. e., London man.  2. Etym: [AS. -ra; akin to G. -er, Icel. -are, -re, Goth. -iza, -, L. -ior, Gr. -iyas.]  A suffix used to form the comparative degree of adjectives and adverbs; as, warmer, sooner, lat(e)er, earl(y)ier. 

ERADIATE:  To shoot forth, as rays of light; to beam; to radiate. Dr. H. More. 

ERADIATION:  Emission of radiance. 

ERADICABLE:  Capable of being eradicated. 

ERADICATIVE:  Tending or serving to eradicate; curing or destroying thoroughly, as a disease or any evil. 

ERADICATIVE:  A medicine that effects a radical cure. Whitlock. 

ERASABLE:  Capable of being erased. 

ERASED:  Represented with jagged and uneven edges, as is torn off; -- used esp. of the head or limb of a beast. Cf. Couped. 

ERASEMENT:  The act of erasing; a rubbing out; expunction; obliteration. Johnson. 

ERASER:  One who, or that which, erases; esp., a sharp instrument or a piece of rubber used to erase writings, drawings, etc. 

ERASION:  The act of erasing; a rubbing out; obliteration. 

ERASTIAN:  One of the followers of Thomas Erastus, a German physician and theologian of the 16th century. He held that the punishment of all offenses should be referred to the civil power, and that holy communion was open to all. In the present day, an Erastian is one who would see the church placed entirely under the control of the State. Shipley. 

ERASTIANISM:  The principles of the Erastains. 

ERASURE:  The act of erasing; a scratching out; obliteration. 

ERATIVE:  Pertaining to the Muse Erato who presided over amatory poetry. Stormonth. 

ERATO:  The Muse who presided over lyric and amatory poetry. 

ERBIUM:  A rare metallic element associated with several other rare elements in the mineral gadolinite from Ytterby in Sweden. Symbol Er. Atomic weight 165.9. Its salts are rose-colored and give characteristic spectra. Its sesquioxide is called erbia. 

ERCEDEKEN:  An archdeacon. [Obs.] 

ERD:  The earth. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. Erd shrew (Zoöl.), the common European shrew (Sorex vulgaris); the shrewmouse. 

ERE:  To plow. [Obs.] See Ear, v. t. Chaucer. 

EREBUS:  A place of nether darkness, being the gloomy space through which the souls passed to Hades. See Milton's "Paradise Lost," Book II., line 883.  2. (Greek Myth.)  The son of Chaos and brother of Nox, who dwelt in Erebus. To the infernal deep, with Erebus and tortures vile. Shak. 

ERECT:  Standing upright, with reference to the earth's surface, or to the surface to which it is attached.  6. (Her.)  Elevated, as the tips of wings, heads of serpents, etc. 

ERECT:  To rise upright. [Obs.] By wet, stalks do erect. Bacon. 

ERECTABLE:  Capable of being erected; as, an erectable feather. Col. G. Montagu. 

ERECTER:  An erector; one who raises or builds. 

ERECTILE:  Capable of being erected; susceptible of being erected of dilated. Erectile tissue (Anat.), a tissue which is capable of being greatly dilated and made rigid by the distension of the numerous blood vessels which it contains. 

ERECTILITY:  The quality or state of being erectile. 

ERECTION:  The state of a part which, from having been soft, has become hard and swollen by the accumulation of blood in the erectile tissue. 

ERECTIVE:  Making erect or upright; raising; tending to erect. 

ERECTLY:  In an erect manner or posture. 

ERECTNESS:  Uprightness of posture or form.  ERECTO-PATENT E*rec"to-pat"ent, a.  1. (Bot.)  Having a position intermediate between erect and patent, or spreading.  2. (Zoöl.)  Standing partially spread and erect; -- said of the wings of certain insects. 

ERECTOR:  A muscle which raises any part.  3. (Physics)  An attachment to a microscope, telescope, or other optical instrument, for making the image erect instead of inverted. 

ERELONG:  Before the ere long. A man, . . . following the stag, erelong slew him. Spenser. The world, erelong, a world of tears must weep. Milton. 

EREMACAUSIS:  A gradual oxidation from exposure to air and moisture, as in the decay of old trees or of dead animals. 

EREMITAGE:  See Hermitage. 

EREMITE:  A hermit. Thou art my heaven, and I thy eremite. Keats.  EREMITIC; EREMITICAL Er`e*mit"ic, Er`e*mit"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to an eremite; hermitical; living in solitude. "An eremitical life in the woods." Fuller. "The eremitic instinct." Lowell. 

EREMITISH:  Eremitic. Bp. Hall. 

EREMITISM:  The state of a hermit; a living in seclusion from social life. 

EREPTATION:  A creeping forth. [Obs.] 

EREPTION:  A snatching away. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

ERETHISM:  A morbid degree of excitement or irritation in an organ. Hoblyn. 

ERETHISTIC:  Relating to erethism.  EREWHILE; EREWHILES Ere`while", Ere`whiles", adv.  Some time ago; a little while before; heretofore. [Archaic] I am as fair now as I was erewhile. Shak. 

ERF:  A garden plot, usually about half an acre. [Cape Colony] 

ERG:  The unit of work or energy in the C. G. S. system, being the amount of work done by a dyne working through a distance of one centimeter; the amount of energy expended in moving a body one centimeter against a force of one dyne. One foot pound is equal to 13,560,000 ergs. 

ERGAL:  Potential energy; negative value of the force function. 

ERGAT:  To deduce logically, as conclusions. [Obs.] Hewyt. 

ERGMETER:  An instrument for measuring energy in ergs. 

ERGO:  Therefore; consequently; -- often used in a jocular way. Shak. 

ERGOGRAPH:  An instrument for measuring and recording the work done by a single muscle or set of muscles, the rate of fatigue, etc. -- Er`go*graph"ic (#), a. 

ERGOMETER:  A device for measuring, or an instrument for indicating, energy expended or work done; a dynamometer. -- Er`go*met"ric (#), a. 

ERGOT:  A stub, like soft horn, about the size of a chestnut, situated behind and below the pastern joint.  4. (Anat.)  See 2d Calcar, 3 (b). 

ERGOTIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, ergot; as, ergotic acid. 

ERGOTIN:  An extract made from ergot. 

ERGOTINE:  A powerful astringent alkaloid extracted from ergot as a brown, amorphous, bitter substance. It is used to produce contraction of the uterus. 

ERGOTISM:  A logical deduction. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

ERGOTISM:  A diseased condition produced by eating rye affected with the ergot fungus. 

ERGOTIZED:  Affected with the ergot fungus; as, ergotized rye.  ERIACH; ERIC Er"i*ach, Er"ic, n. Etym: [Ir. eiric.] (Old Irish Law)  A recompense formerly given by a murderer to the relatives of the murdered person. 

ERICA:  A genus of shrubby plants, including the heaths, many of them producing beautiful flowers. 

ERICACEOUS:  Belonging to the Heath family, or resembling plants of that family; consisting of heats. 

ERICINOL:  A colorless oil (quickly becoming brown), with a pleasant odor, obtained by the decomposition of ericolin. 

ERICIUS:  The Vulgate rendering of the Hebrew word qipod, which in the "Authorized Version" is translated bittern, and in the Revised Version, porcupine. I will make it [Babylon] a possession for the ericius and pools of waters. Is. xiv. 23 (Douay version). 

ERICOLIN:  A glucoside found in the bearberry (and others of the Ericaceæ), and extracted as a bitter, yellow, amorphous mass. 

ERIDANUS:  A long, winding constellation extending southward from Taurus and containing the bright star Achernar. 

ERIGIBLE:  Capable of being erected. [Obs.] 

ERIN:  An early, and now a poetic, name of Ireland. 

ERINACEOUS:  Of the Hedgehog family; like, or characteristic of, a hedgehog. 

ERINGO:  The sea holly. See Eryngo. 

ERINITE:  A hydrous arseniate of copper, of an emerald-green color; -- so called from Erin, or Ireland, where it occurs. 

ERINYS:  An avenging deity; one of the Furies; sometimes, conscience personified. [Written also Erinnys.] 

ERIOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the diameters of minute particles or fibers, from the size of the colored rings produced by the diffraction of the light in which the objects are viewed. 

ERISTALIS:  A genus of dipterous insects whose young (called rat-tailed larvæ) are remarkable for their long tapering tail, which spiracles at the tip, and for their ability to live in very impure and salt waters; -- also called drone fly.  ERISTIC; ERISTICAL E*ris"tic, E*ris"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Controversial. [Archaic] A specimen of admirable special pleading in the court of eristic logic. Coleridge. 

ERKE:  ASlothful. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

ERLKING:  A personification, in German and Scandinavian mythology, of a spirit natural power supposed to work mischief and ruin, esp. to children. 

ERME:  To grieve; to feel sad. [Obs.] Chaucer.  ERMELIN; ERMILIN Er"me*lin, Er"mi*lin, n. (Zoöl.)  See Ermine. Shenstone. 

ERMIN:  An Armenian. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ERMINE:  A valuable fur-bearing animal of the genus Mustela (M. erminea), allied to the weasel; the stoat. It is found in the northern parts of Asia, Europe, and America. In summer it is brown, but in winter it becomes white, except the tip of the tail, which is always black.  2. The fur of the ermine, as prepared for ornamenting garments of royalty, etc., by having the tips of the tails, which are black, arranged at regular intervals throughout the white.  3. By metonymy, the office or functions of a judge, whose state robe, lined with ermine, is emblematical of purity and honor without stain. Chatham.  4. (Her.)  One of the furs. See Fur (Her.)  Note: Ermine is represented by an argent field, tufted with black. Ermines is the reverse of ermine, being black, spotted or timbered with argent. Erminois is the same as ermine, except that or is substituted for argent. Ermine moth (Zoöl.), a white moth with black spots (esp. Yponomeuta padella of Europe); -- so called on account of the resemblance of its covering to the fur of the ermine; also applied to certain white bombycid moths of America. 

ERMINE:  To clothe with, or as with, ermine. The snows that have ermined it in the winter. Lowell. 

ERMINED:  Clothed or adorned with the fur of the ermine. Pope.  ERMINES; ERMINOIS Er"mines, n., Er"min*ois (, n. (Her.)  See Note under Ermine, n., 4. 

ERMIT:  A hermit. [Obs.]  ERN; ERNE Ern, Erne, n. Etym: [AS. earn eagle; akin to D. arend, OHG. aro, G. aar, Icel., Sw., & Dan. örn, Goth. ara, and to Gr. Ornithology.] (Zoöl.)  A sea eagle, esp. the European white-tailed sea eagle (Haliæetus albicilla). 

ERN:  To stir with strong emotion; to grieve; to mourn.  Note: [Corrupted into yearn in modern editions of Shakespeare.] [Obs.] 

ERNEST:  See Earnest. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ERNESTFUL:  Serious. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ERODE:  To eat into or away; to corrode; as, canker erodes the flesh. "The blood . . . erodes the vessels." Wiseman. The smaller charge is more apt to . . . erode the gun. Am. Cyc. 

ERODED:  Having the edge worn away so as to be jagged or irregularly toothed. 

ERODENT:  A medicine which eats away extraneous growths; a caustic. 

EROGATE:  To lay out, as money; to deal out; to expend. [Obs.] 

EROGATION:  The act of giving out or bestowing. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

EROS:  Love; the god of love; -- by earlier writers represented as one of the first and creative gods, by later writers as the son of Aphrodite, equivalent to the Latin god Cupid. 

EROSE:  Jagged or irregularly toothed, as if nibbled out or gnawed.  -- E*rose"ly, adv. 

EROSIVE:  That erodes or gradually eats away; tending to erode; corrosive. Humble. 

EROSTRATE:  Without a beak. 

EROTEME:  A mark indicating a question; a note of interrogation. 

EROTESIS:  A figure o Must I give way and room to your rash choler Shall I be frighted when a madman stares Shak.  EROTIC; EROTICAL E*rot"ic, E*rot"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. érotique. See Eros.]  Of or pertaining to the passion of love; treating of love; amatory. 

EROTIC:  An amorous composition or poem. 

EROTICISM:  Erotic quality. 

ERPETOLOGIST:  Herpetologist. 

ERPETOLOGY:  Herpetology. 

ERRABLE:  Liable to error; fallible. 

ERRABLENESS:  Liability to error. Dr. H. More. 

ERRABUND:  Erratic. "Errabund guesses." Southey. 

ERRANCY:  A wandering; state of being in error. 

ERRAND:  A special business intrusted to a messenger; something to be told or done by one sent somewhere for the purpose; often, a verbal message; a commission; as, the servant was sent on an errand; to do an errand. Also, one's purpose in going anywhere. I have a secret errand to thee, O king. Judg. iii. 19. I will not eat till I have told mine errand. Gen. xxiv. 33. mission. 

ERRANT:  Journeying; itinerant; -- formerly applied to judges who went on circuit and to bailiffs at large. Mozley & W. 

ERRANT:  One who wanders about. [Obs.] Fuller. 

ERRANTIA:  A group of chætopod annelids, including those that are not confined to tubes. See Chætopoda. [Written also Errantes.] 

ERRATA:  See Erratum. 

ERRATIC:  Any stone or material that has been borne away from its original site by natural agencies; esp., a large block or fragment of rock; a bowlder.  Note: In the plural the term is applied especially to the loose gravel and stones on the earth's surface, including what is called drift. 

ERRATICAL:  Erratic.  -- Er*rat"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Er*rat"ic*al*ness, n. 

ERRATION:  A wandering; a roving about. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

ERRATUM:  An error or mistake in writing or printing. A single erratum may knock out the brains of a whole passage. Cowper. 

ERRHINE:  A medicine designed to be snuffed up the nose, to promote discharges of mucus; a sternutatory. Coxe.  -- a.  Causing or increasing secretion of nasal mucus. 

ERROR:  The difference between the approximate result and the true result; -- used particularly in the rule of double position.  6. (Mensuration) (a) The difference between an observed value and the true value of a quantity. (b) The difference between the observed value of a quantity and that which is taken or computed to be the true value; -- sometimes called residual error.  7. (Law.)  A mistake in the proceedings of a court of record in matters of law or of fact.  8. (Baseball)  A fault of a player of the side in the field which results in failure to put out a player on the other side, or gives him an unearned base. Law of error, or Law of frequency of error (Mensuration), the law which expresses the relation between the magnitude of an error and the frequency with which that error will be committed in making a large number of careful measurements of a quantity.  -- Probable error. (Mensuration) See under Probable.  -- Writ of error (Law), an original writ, which lies after judgment in an action at law, in a court of record, to correct some alleged error in the proceedings, or in the judgment of the court. Bouvier. Burrill.  Syn.  -- Mistake; fault; blunder; failure; fallacy; delusion; hallucination; sin. See Blunder. 

ERRORFUL:  Full of error; wrong. Foxe. 

ERRORIST:  One who encourages and propagates error; one who holds to error. 

ERS:  The bitter vetch (Ervum Ervilia). 

ERSE:  A name sometimes given to that dialect of the Celtic which is spoken in the Highlands of Scotland; -- called, by the Highlanders, Gaelic. 

ERSE:  Of or pertaining to the Celtic race in the Highlands of Scotland, or to their language. 

ERSH:  See Arrish. 

ERSTWHILE:  Till then or now; heretofore; formerly. [Archaic]  ERUBESCENCE; ERUBESCENCY Er`u*bes"cence, Er`u*bes"cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. erubescentia: cf. F. érubescence.]  The act of becoming red; redness of the skin or surface of anything; a blushing. 

ERUBESCENT:  Red, or reddish; blushing. Johnson. 

ERUBESCITE:  See Bornite. 

ERUCA:  An insect in the larval state; a caterpillar; a larva. 

ERUCIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, a genus of cruciferous Mediterranean herbs (Eruca or Brassica); as, erucic acid, a fatty acid resembling oleic acid, and found in colza oil, mustard oil, etc. 

ERUCIFROM:  Having the form of a caterpillar; -- said of insect larvæ.  ERUCT; ERUCTATE E*ruct", E*ruc"tate, v. t. Etym: [L. eructare; e out + ructare to belch: cf. F. éructer.]  To eject, as wind, from the stomach; to belch. [R.] Howell. 

ERUDIATE:  To instruct; to educate; to teach. [Obs.] The skillful goddess there erudiates these In all she did. Fanshawe. 

ERUDITE:  Characterized by extensive reading or knowledge; well instructed; learned. "A most erudite prince." Sir T. More. "Erudite . . . theology." I. Taylor.  -- Er"u*dite`ly, adv.  -- Er"u*dite`ness, n. 

ERUDITION:  The act of instructing; the result of thorough instruction; the state of being erudite or learned; the acquisitions gained by extensive reading or study; particularly, learning in literature or criticism, as distinct from the sciences; scholarship. The management of a young lady's person is not be overlooked, but the erudition of her mind is much more to be regarded. Steele. The gay young gentleman whose erudition sat so easily upon him. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Literature; learning. See Literature. 

ERUGATE:  Freed from wrinkles; smooth. 

ERUGINOUS:  Partaking of the substance or nature of copper, or of the rust copper; resembling the trust of copper or verdigris; æruginous. 

ERUMPENT:  Breaking out; -- said of certain fungi which burst through the texture of leaves. 

ERUPT:  To cause to burst forth; to eject; as, to erupt lava. Huxley. 

ERUPTION:  The breaking out of pimples, or an efflorescence, as in measles, scarlatina, etc. 

ERUPTIONAL:  Eruptive. [R.] R. A. Proctor. 

ERUPTIVE:  Attended with eruption or efflorescence, or producing it; as, an eruptive fever.  3. (Geol.)  Produced by eruption; as, eruptive rocks, such as the igneous or volcanic. 

ERUPTIVE:  An eruptive rock. 

ERYNGIUM:  A genus of umbelliferous plants somewhat like thistles in appearance. Eryngium maritimum, or sea holly, has been highly esteemed as an aphrodisiac, the roots being formerly candied. 

ERYNGO:  A plant of the genus Eryngium. 

ERYSIPELAS:  St. Anthony's fire; a febrile disease accompanied with a diffused inflammation of the skin, which, starting usually from a single point, spreads gradually over its surface. It is usually regarded as contagious, and often occurs epidemically. 

ERYSIPELATOID:  Resembling erysipelas. 

ERYSIPELATOUS:  Resembling erysipelas, or partaking of its nature. 

ERYSIPELOUS:  Erysipelatous. 

ERYTHEMA:  A disease of the skin, in which a diffused inflammation forms rose-colored patches of variable size. 

ERYTHEMATIC:  Characterized by, or causing, a morbid redness of the skin; relating to erythema. 

ERYTHEMATOUS:  Relating to, or causing, erythema.  ERYTHREAN; ERYTHRAEAN Er`y*thre"an, Er`y*thræ"an, a. Etym: [L. erythraeus; Gr.  Red in color. "The erythrean main." Milton. 

ERYTHRIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, erythrin.  ERYTHRIN; ERYTHRINE E*ryth"rin, E*ryth"rine, n. Etym: [Gr.  1. (Chem.)  A colorless crystalline substance, C20H22O10, extracted from certain lichens, as the various species of Rocella. It is a derivative of orsellinic acid. So called because of certain red compounds derived from it. Called also erythric acid.  2. (Min.)  See Erythrite, 2. 

ERYTHRINA:  A genus of leguminous plants growing in the tropics; coral tree; -- so called from its red flowers. 

ERYTHRISM:  A condition of excessive redness. See Erythrochroism. 

ERYTHRITE:  A colorless crystalline substance, C4H6.(OH)4, of a sweet, cooling taste, extracted from certain lichens, and obtained by the decomposition of erythrin; -- called also erythrol, erythroglucin, erythromannite, pseudorcin, cobalt bloom, and under the name phycite obtained from the alga Protococcus vulgaris. It is a tetrabasic alcohol, corresponding to glycol and glycerin.  2. (Min.)  A rose-red mineral, crystallized and earthy, a hydrous arseniate of cobalt, known also as cobalt bloom; -- called also erythrin or erythrine. 

ERYTHROCHROIC:  Having, or subject to, erythrochroism. 

ERYTHROCHROISM:  An unusual redness, esp. in the plumage of birds, or hair of mammals, independently of age, sex, or season. 

ERYTHRODEXTRIN:  A dextrin which gives a red color with iodine. See Dextrin. 

ERYTHROGRANULOSE:  A term applied by Brücke to a substance present in small amount in starch granules, colored red by iodine. 

ERYTHROID:  Of a red color; reddish; as, the erythroid tunic (the cremaster muscle). 

ERYTHROLEIC:  Having a red color and oily appearance; -- applied to a purple semifluid substance said to be obtained from archil. 

ERYTHROLEIN:  A red substance obtained from litmus. 

ERYTHROLITMIN:  Erythrolein. 

ERYTHRONIUM:  A name originally given (from its red acid) to the metal vanadium. [R.] 

ERYTHROPHLEINE:  A white crystalline alkaloid, extracted from sassy bark (Erythrophleum Guineense).  ERYTHROPHYLL; ERYTHROPHYLLIN E*ryth"ro*phyll, Er`y*throph"yl*lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Bot.)  The red coloring matter of leaves, fruits, flowers, etc., in distinction from chlorophyll. 

ERYTHROXYLON:  A genus of shrubs or small trees of the Flax family, growing in tropical countries. E. Coca is the source of cocaine. See Coca. 

ERYTHROZYME:  A ferment extracted from madder root, possessing the power of inducing alcoholic fermentation in solutions of sugar. 

ESCALADE:  A furious attack made by troops on a fortified place, in which ladders are used to pass a ditch or mount a rampart. Sin enters, not by escalade, but by cunning or treachery. Buckminster. 

ESCALADE:  To mount and pass or enter by means of ladders; to scale; as, to escalate a wall. 

ESCALATOR:  A stairway or incline arranged like an endless belt so that the steps or treads ascend or descend continuously, and one stepping upon it is carried up or down; -- a trade term. 

ESCALLOP:  See Escalop. 

ESCALLOPED:  See Escaloped. 

ESCALOP:  A bivalve shell of the genus Pecten. See Scallop.  2. A regular, curving indenture in the margin of anything. See Scallop. "So many jags or escalops." Ray.  3. (a) The figure or shell of an escalop, considered as a sign that the bearer had been on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. Hence: (b) (Her.) A bearing or a charge consisting of an escalop shell. 

ESCALOPED:  Covered with a pattern resembling a series of escalop shells, each of which issues from between two others. Its appearance is that of a surface covered with scales. Escaloped oysters (Cookery). See under Scalloped. 

ESCAMBIO:  A license formerly required for the making over a bill of exchange to another over sea. Cowell. 

ESCAPABLE:  Avoidable. 

ESCAPE:  The unlawful permission, by a jailer or other custodian, of a prisoner's departure from custody.  Note: Escape is technically distinguishable from prison breach, which is the unlawful departure of the prisoner from custody, escape being the permission of the departure by the custodian, either by connivance or negligence. The term escape, however, is applied by some of the old authorities to a departure from custody by stratagem, or without force. Wharton.  5. (Arch.)  An apophyge.  6. Leakage or outflow, as of steam or a liquid.  7. (Elec.)  Leakage or loss of currents from the conducting wires, caused by defective insulation. Escape pipe (Steam Boilers), a pipe for carrying away steam that escapes through a safety valve.  -- Escape valve (Steam Engine), a relief valve; a safety valve. See under Relief, and Safety.  -- Escape wheel (Horol.), the wheel of an escapement. 

ESCAPER:  One who escapes. 

ESCARBUNCLE:  See Carbuncle, 3. 

ESCARGATOIRE:  A nursery of snails. [Obs.] Addison. 

ESCARP:  The side of the ditch next the parapet; -- same as scarp, and opposed to counterscarp. 

ESCARP:  To make into, or furnish with, a steep slope, like that of a scrap. Carleton. 

ESCARPMENT:  A steep descent or declivity; steep face or edge of a ridge; ground about a fortified place, cut away nearly vertically to prevent hostile approach. See Scarp.  -ESCENT -es"cent. Etym: [From the ending -escens, -entis, of the p. pr. of inchoative verbs in Latin.]  A suffix signifying beginning, beginning to be; as, adolescent, effervescent, etc. 

ESCHALOT:  See Shallot. 

ESCHAR:  A dry slough, crust, or scab, which separates from the healthy part of the body, as that produced by a burn, or the application of caustics. 

ESCHAR:  In Ireland, one of the continuous mounds or ridges of gravelly and sandy drift which extend for many miles over the surface of the country. Similar ridges in Scotland are called kames or kams. [Written also eskar and esker.] 

ESCHARA:  A genus of Bryozoa which produce delicate corals, often incrusting like lichens, but sometimes branched. 

ESCHARINE:  Like, or pertaining to, the genus Eschara, or family Escharidæ. 

ESCHAROTIC:  Serving or tending to form an eschar;; producing a scar; caustic. 

ESCHAROTIC:  A substance which produces an eschar; a caustic, esp., a mild caustic. 

ESCHATOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to the last or final things. 

ESCHATOLOGY:  The doctrine of the last or final things, as death, judgment, and the events therewith connected. 

ESCHAUNGE:  Exchange. [Obs.] 

ESCHEAT:  To revert, or become forfeited, to the lord, the crown, or the State, as lands by the failure of persons entitled to hold the same, or by forfeiture.  Note: In this country it is the general rule that when the title to land fails by defect of heirs or devisees, it necessarily escheats to the State; but forfeiture of estate from crime is hardly known in this country, and corruption of blood is universally abolished. Kent. Bouvier. 

ESCHEAT:  To forfeit. Bp. Hall. 

ESCHEATABLE:  Liable to escheat. 

ESCHEATAGE:  The right of succeeding to an escheat. Sherwood. 

ESCHEATOR:  An officer whose duty it is to observe what escheats have taken place, and to take charge of them. Burrill. 

ESCHEVIN:  The alderman or chief officer of an ancient guild. [Obs.] 

ESCHEWER:  One who eschews. 

ESCHEWMENT:  The act of eschewing. [R.] 

ESCHSCHOLTZIA:  A genus of papaveraceous plants, found in California and upon the west coast of North America, some species of which produce beautiful yellow, orange, rose-colored, or white flowers; the California poppy. 

ESCHYNITE:  A rare mineral, containing chiefly niobium, titanium, thorium, and cerium. It was so called by Berzelius on account of the inability of chemical science, at the time of its discovery, to separate some of its constituents. 

ESCOCHEON:  Escutcheon. [Obs.]  ESCOPET; ESCOPETTE Es`co*pet", Es`co*pette", n. Etym: [Sp. escopeta, F. escopette.]  A kind of firearm; a carbine. 

ESCORIAL:  See Escurial. 

ESCORT:  To attend with a view to guard and protect; to accompany as safeguard; to give honorable or ceremonious attendance to; -- used esp. with reference to journeys or excursions on land; as, to escort a public functionary, or a lady; to escort a baggage wagon.  Syn.  -- To accompany; attend. See Accompany. 

ESCOT:  See Scot, a tax. [Obs.] 

ESCOT:  To pay the reckoning for; to support; to maintain. [Obs.] Shak. 

ESCOUADE:  See Squad, 

ESCOUT:  See Scout. [Obs.] Hayward. 

ESCRIBED:  Drawn outside of; -- used to designate a circle that touches one of the sides of a given triangle, and also the other two sides produced. 

ESCRIPT:  A writing. [Obs.] 

ESCRITOIRE:  A piece of furniture used as a writing table, commonly with drawers, pigeonholes, and the like; a secretary or writing desk. 

ESCRITORIAL:  Of or pertaining to an escritoire. 

ESCROD:  See Scrod, a young cod.  ESCROL; ESCROLL Es*crol", Es*croll", n. Etym: [See Escrow, Scroll.]  1. A scroll. [Obs.]  2. (Her.) (a) A long strip or scroll resembling a ribbon or a band of parchment, or the like, anciently placed above the shield, and supporting the crest. (b) In modern heraldry, a similar ribbon on which the motto is inscribed. 

ESCROW:  A deed, bond, or other written engagement, delivered to a third person, to be held by him till some act is done or some condition is performed, and then to be by him delivered to the grantee. Blackstone. 

ESCUAGE:  Service of the shield, a species of knight service by which a tenant was bound to follow his lord to war, at his own charge. It was afterward exchanged for a pecuniary satisfaction. Called also scutage. Blackstone. 

ESCULAPIAN:  Æsculapian. 

ESCULAPIUS:  Same as Æsculapius. 

ESCULENT:  Suitable to be used by man for food; eatable; edible; as, esculent plants; esculent fish. Esculent grain for food. Sir W. Jones. Esculent swallow (Zoöl.), the swallow which makes the edible bird's- nest. See Edible bird's-nest, under Edible. 

ESCULENT:  Anything that is fit for eating; that which may be safely eaten by man. 

ESCULIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, the horse-chestnut; as, esculic acid. 

ESCULIN:  A glucoside obtained from the Æsculus hippocastanum, or horse- chestnut, and characterized by its fine blue fluorescent solutions. [Written also æsculin.] 

ESCURIAL:  A palace and mausoleum of the kinds of Spain, being a vast and wonderful structure about twenty-five miles northwest of Madrid.  Note: The ground plan is said to be in the form of a gridiron, the structure being designed in honor of St. Lawrence, who suffered martyrdom by being broiled on gridiron; but the resemblance is very slight. It is nearly square, inclosing several courts, and has a projecting mass which stands for the handle. 

ESCUTCHEON:  The surface, usually a shield, upon which bearings are marshaled and displayed. The surface of the escutcheon is called the field, the upper part is called the chief, and the lower part the base (see Chiff, and Field.). That side of the escutcheon which is on the right hand of the knight who bears the shield on his arm is called dexter, and the other side sinister.  Note: The two sides of an escutcheon are respectively designated as dexter and sinister, as in the cut, and the different parts or points by the following names: A, Dexter chief point; B, Middle chief point; C, Sinister chief point; D, Honor or color point; E, Fesse or heart point; F, Nombrill or navel point; G, Dexter base point; H, Middle base point; I, base point.  2. A marking upon the back of a cow's udder and the space above it (the perineum), formed by the hair growing upward or outward instead of downward. It is esteemed an index of milking qualities. C. L. Flint.  3. (Naut.)  That part of a vessel's stern on which her name is written. R. H. Dane, Jr.  4. (Carp.)  A thin metal plate or shield to protect wood, or for ornament, as the shield around a keyhole.  5. (Zoöl.)  The depression behind the beak of certain bivalves; the ligamental area. Escutcheon of pretense, an escutcheon used in English heraldry to display the arms of the bearer's wife; -- not commonly used unless she an heiress. Cf. Impalement. 

ESCUTCHEONED:  Having an escutcheon; furnished with a coat of arms or ensign. Young. 

ESE:  Ease; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ESEMPLASTIC:  Shaped into one; tending to, or formative into, unity. [R.] Coleridge. 

ESERINE:  An alkaloid found in the Calabar bean, and the seed of Physostigma venenosum; physostigmine. It is used in ophthalmic surgery for its effect in contracting the pupil. 

ESEXUAL:  Sexless; asexual. 

ESGUARD:  Guard. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  ESKAR; ESKER Es"kar, or Es"ker, n. (Geol.)  See Eschar. 

ESKIMO:  One of a peculiar race inhabiting Arctic America and Greenland. In many respects the Eskimos resemble the Mongolian race. [Written also Esquimau.] Eskimo dog (Zoöl.), one of breed of large and powerful dogs used by the Eskimos to draw sledges. It closely resembles the gray wolf, with which it is often crossed. 

ESLOIN:  To remove; to banish; to withdraw; to avoid; to eloign. [Obs.] From worldly cares he did himself esloin. Spenser. 

ESNECY:  A prerogative given to the eldest coparcener to choose first after an inheritance is divide. Mozley & W. 

ESODIC:  Conveying impressions from the surface of the body to the spinal cord; -- said of certain nerves. Opposed to exodic. 

ESOPHAGAL:  Esophageal. 

ESOPHAGEAL:  Pertaining to the esophagus. [Written also .] 

ESOPHAGEAN:  Esophageal. 

ESOPHAGOTOMY:  The operation of making an incision into the esophagus, for the purpose of removing any foreign substance that obstructs the passage. [Written also oesophagotomy.] 

ESOPHAGUS:  That part of the alimentary canal between the pharynx and the stomach; the gullet. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, under Digestive. [Written also .]  ESOPIAN; ESOPIC E*so"pi*an, E*so"pic, a.  Same as Æsopian, Æsopic. 

ESOTERIC:  Designed for, and understood by, the specially initiated alone; not communicated, or not intelligible, to the general body of followers; private; interior; acroamatic; -- said of the private and more recondite instructions and doctrines of philosophers. Opposed to exoteric. Enough if every age produce two or three critics of this esoteric class, with here and there a reader to understand them. De Quincey. 

ESOTERICAL:  Esoteric. 

ESOTERICALLY:  In an esoteric manner. 

ESOTERICISM:  Esoteric doctrine or principles. 

ESOTERICS:  Mysterious or hidden doctrines; secret science. 

ESOTERY:  Mystery; esoterics; -- opposed to exotery. A. Tucker. 

ESOX:  A genus of fresh-water fishes, including pike and pickerel. 

ESPACE:  Space. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ESPADON:  A long, heavy, two-handed and two-edged sword, formerly used by Spanish foot soldiers and by executioners. Wilhelm. 

ESPALIER:  A railing or trellis upon which fruit trees or shrubs are trained, as upon a wall; a tree or row of trees so trained. And figs from standard and espalier join. Pope. 

ESPALIER:  To form an espalier of, or to protect by an espalier. 

ESPARCET:  The common sainfoin (Onobrychis sativa), an Old World leguminous forage plant. 

ESPARTO:  A species of Spanish grass (Macrochloa tenacissima), of which cordage, shoes, baskets, etc., are made. It is also used for making paper. 

ESPAULIERE:  A defense for the shoulder, composed of flexible overlapping plates of metal, used in the 15th century; -- the origin of the modern epaulette. Fairholt. 

ESPECIAL:  Distinguished among others of the same class or kind; special; concerning a species or a single object; principal; particular; as, in an especial manner or degree.  Syn.  -- Peculiar; special; particular; uncommon; chief. See Peculiar. 

ESPECIALLY:  In an especial manner; chiefly; particularly; peculiarly; in an uncommon degree. 

ESPECIALNESS:  The state of being especial. 

ESPERANCE:  Hope. [Obs.] Shak. 

ESPERANTO:  An artificial language, intended to be universal, devised by Dr. Zamenhof, a Russian, who adopted the pseudonym "Dr. Esperanto" in publishing his first pamphlet regarding it in 1887. The vocabulary is very largely based upon words common to the chief European languages, and sounds peculiar to any one language are eliminated. The spelling is phonetic, and the accent (stress) is always on the penult. -- Es`pe*ran"tist (#), n. 

ESPIAILLE:  Espial. [Obs.] 

ESPIER:  One who espies. Harmar. 

ESPINEL:  A kind of ruby. See Spinel. 

ESPIONAGE:  The practice or employment of spies; the practice of watching the words and conduct of others, to make discoveries, as spies or secret emissaries; secret watching. 

ESPLANADE:  A grass plat; a lawn. Simmonds.  3. Any clear, level space used for public walks or drives; esp., a terrace by the seaside. 

ESPLEES:  The full profits or products which ground or land yields, as the hay of the meadows, the feed of the pasture, the grain of arable fields, the rents, services, and the like. Cowell. 

ESPOUSAGE:  Espousal. [Obs.] Latimer. 

ESPOUSEMENT:  The act of espousing, or the state of being espoused. 

ESPOUSER:  One who espouses; one who embraces the cause of another or makes it his own. 

ESPRESSIVO:  With expression. 

ESPRINGAL:  An engine of war used for throwing viretons, large stones, and other missiles; a springal. 

ESPRIT:  Spirit. Esprit de corps (, a French phrase much used by English writers to denote the common spirit pervading the members of a body or association of persons. It implies sympathy, enthusiasm, devotion, and jealous regard for the honor of the body as a whole. 

ESPY:  To look or search narrowly; to look about; to watch; to take notice; to spy. Stand by the way, and espy. Jer. xlviii. 19. 

ESPY:  A spy; a scout. [Obs.] Huloet.  -ESQUE -esque. Etym: [F., fr. It. -isco. Cf. -ish.]  A suffix of certain words from the French, Italian, and Spanish. It denotes manner or style; like; as, arabesque, after the manner of the Arabs. 

ESQUIMAU:  Same as Eskimo. It is . . . an error to suppose that where an Esquimau can live, a civilized man can live also. McClintock. 

ESQUIRE:  Originally, a shield-bearer or armor-bearer, an attendant on a knight; in modern times, a title of dignity next in degree below knight and above gentleman; also, a title of office and courtesy; -- often shortened to squire.  Note: In England, the title of esquire belongs by right of birth to the eldest sons of knights and their eldest sons in perpetual succession; to the eldest sons of younger sons of peers and their eldest sons in perpetual succession. It is also given to sheriffs, to justices of the peace while in commission, to those who bear special office in the royal household, to counselors at law, bachelors of divinity, law, or physic, and to others. In the United States the title is commonly given in courtesy to lawyers and justices of the peace, and is often used in the superscription of letters instead of Mr. 

ESQUIRE:  To wait on as an esquire or attendant in public; to attend. [Colloq.] 

ESQUISSE:  The first sketch of a picture or model of a statue.  -ESS -ess. Etym: [OF. -esse, LL. -issa, Gr.  A suffix used to form feminine nouns; as, actress, deaconess, songstress. 

ESSAY:  A composition treating of any particular subject; -- usually shorter and less methodical than a formal, finished treatise; as, an essay on the life and writings of Homer; an essay on fossils, or on commerce.  3. An assay. See Assay, n. [Obs.]  Syn.  -- Attempt; trial; endeavor; effort; tract; treatise; dissertation; disquisition. 

ESSAYER:  One who essays. Addison. 

ESSAYIST:  A writer of an essay, or of essays. B. Jonson. 

ESSENCE:  To perfume; to scent. "Essenced fops." Addison. 

ESSENE:  One of a sect among the Jews in the time of our Savior, remarkable for their strictness and abstinence. 

ESSENISM:  The doctrine or the practices of the Essenes. De Quincey. 

ESSENTIAL:  Necessary; indispensable; -- said of those tones which constitute a chord, in distinction from ornamental or passing tones.  6. (Med.)  Idiopathic; independent of other diseases. Essential character (Biol.), the prominent characteristics which serve to distinguish one genus, species, etc., from another.  -- Essential disease, Essential fever (Med.), one that is not dependent on another.  -- Essential oils (Chem.), a class of volatile oils, extracted from plants, fruits, or flowers, having each its characteristic odor, and hot burning taste. They are used in essences, perfumery, etc., and include many varieties of compounds; as lemon oil is a terpene, oil of bitter almonds an aldehyde, oil of wintergreen an ethereal salt, etc.; -- called also volatile oils in distinction from the fixed or nonvolatile. 

ESSENTIALITY:  The quality of being essential; the essential part. Jer. Taylor. 

ESSENTIALLY:  In an essential manner or degree; in an indispensable degree; really; as, essentially different. 

ESSENTIALNESS:  Essentiality. Ld. Digby. 

ESSENTIATE:  To form or constitute the essence or being of. [Obs.] Boyle. 

ESSENTIATE:  To become assimilated; to be changed into the essence. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  ESSOIN; ESSOIGN Es*soin" or Es*soign, n. Etym: [OF. essoine, essoigne, F. exoine, L. essonia, exonia; pref. ex- (L. ex from) + sunnis, sunnia, sonia, hindrance, excuse. Cf. Icel. syn refusal, synja to deny, refuse, Goth. sunja truth, sunjon to justify, OS. sunnea impediment, OHG. sunna.]  1. (Eng. Law)  An excuse for not appearing in court at the return of process; the allegation of an excuse to the court.  2. Excuse; exemption. [Obs.] From every work he challenged essoin. Spenser. Essoin day (Eng. Law), the first general return day of the term, on which the court sits to receive essoins. Blackstone. 

ESSOIN:  To excuse for nonappearance in court. "I 'll not essoin thee." Quarles. 

ESSOINER:  An attorney who sufficiently excuses the absence of another. 

ESSONITE:  Cinnamon stone, a variety of garnet. See Garnet. 

ESSORANT:  Standing, but with the wings spread, as if about to fly; -- said of a bird borne as a charge on an escutcheon. 

EST:  East. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -EST -est. Etym: [AS. -ost, -est; akin to G. -est, -ist, Icel. -astr, - str, Goth. -ists, -, Skr. -ish.]  A suffix used to form the superlative of adjectives and adverbs; as, smoothest; earl(y)iest. 

ESTABLISH:  A plain suit in which a player (or side) could, except for trumping, take tricks with all his remaining cards. 

ESTABLISHER:  One who establishes. 

ESTABLISHMENTARIAN:  One who regards the Church primarily as an establishment formed by the State, and overlooks its intrinsic spiritual character. Shipley. 

ESTACADE:  A dike of piles in the sea, a river, etc., to check the approach of an enemy.  ESTAFET; ESTAFETTE Es`ta*fet", Es`ta*fette", n. Etym: [F. estafette, cf. Sp. estafeta; fr. It. stafetta, fr. staffa stirrup, fr. OHG. stapho footstep, footprint, G. stapfe; akin to E. step.]  A courier who conveys messages to another courier; a military courier sent from one part of an army to another. 

ESTAMINET:  A café, or room in a café, in which smoking is allowed. 

ESTANCIA:  A grazing; a country house. [Spanish America] 

ESTATE:  The great classes or orders of a community or state (as the clergy, the nobility, and the commonalty of England) or their representatives who administer the government; as, the estates of the realm (England), which are (1) the lords spiritual, (2) the lords temporal, (3) the commons.  7. (Law)  The degree, quality, nature, and extent of one's interest in, or ownership of, lands, tenements, etc.; as, an estate for life, for years, at will, etc. Abbott. The fourth estate, a name often given to the public press. 

ESTATE:  Stately; dignified. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ESTEEM:  To form an estimate; to have regard to the value; to consider. [Obs.] We ourselves esteem not of that obedience, or love, or gift, which is of force. Milton. 

ESTEEMABLE:  Worthy of esteem; estimable. [R.] "Esteemable qualities." Pope. 

ESTEEMER:  One who esteems; one who sets a high value on any thing. The proudest esteemer of his own parts. Locke. 

ESTER:  An ethereal salt, or compound ether, consisting of an organic radical united with the residue of any oxygen acid, organic or inorganic; thus the natural fats are esters of glycerin and the fatty acids, oleic, etc. 

ESTHESIOMETER:  Same as Æsthesiometer.  ESTHETE; ESTHETIC; ESTHETICAL; ESTHETICS Es"thete, n.; Es*thet"ic (, a., Es*thet"ic*al (, a., Es*thet"ics (, n. etc.  Same as Æsthete, Æsthetic, Æsthetical, Æsthetics, etc. 

ESTIFEROUS:  Producing heat. [R.] Smart. 

ESTIMABLE:  A thing worthy of regard. [R.] One of the peculiar estimables of her country. Sir T. Browne. 

ESTIMABLENESS:  The quality of deserving esteem or regard. 

ESTIMABLY:  In an estimable manner. 

ESTIMATE:  A valuing or rating by the mind, without actually measuring, weighing, or the like; rough or approximate calculation; as, an estimate of the cost of a building, or of the quantity of water in a pond. Weigh success in a moral balance, and our whole estimate is changed. J. C. Shairp.  Syn.  -- Estimate, Estimation, Esteem. The noun estimate, like its verb, supposes chiefly an exercise of judgment in determining the amount, importance, or magnitude of things, with their other exterior relations; as, an estimate of expenses incurred; a true estimate of life, etc. Esteem is a moral sentiment made up of respect and attachment, -- the valuation of a person as possessing useful qualities or real worth. Thus we speak of the esteem of the wise and good as a thing greatly to be desired. Estimation seems to waver between the two. In our version of the Scriptures it is used simply for estimate; as, "If he be poorer than thy estimation." Lev. xxvii. 8. In other cases, it verges toward esteem; as, "I know him to be of worth and worthy estimation." Shak. It will probably settle down at last on this latter sense. "Esteem is the value we place upon some degree of worth. It is higher than simple approbation, which is a decision of judgment. It is the commencement of affection." Gogan. No; dear as freedom is, and in my heart's Just estimation prized above all price. Cowper. 

ESTIMATOR:  One who estimates or values; a valuer. Jer. Taylor.  ESTIVAL; ESTIVATE; ESTIVATION Es"ti*val, a., Es"ti*vate , v. i., Es`ti*va"tion , n.  Same as Æstival, Æstivate, etc. 

ESTOILE:  A six-pointed star whose rays are wavy, instead of straight like those of a mullet. [Written also étoile.] Estoile of eight points, a star which has four straight and four wavy rays.  -- Estoile of four points. Same as Cross estoilé, under Cross. 

ESTOP:  To impede or bar by estoppel. A party will be estopped by his admissions, where his intent is to influence another, or derive an advantage to himself. Abbott. 

ESTOVERS:  Necessaries or supples; an allowance to a person out of an estate or other thing for support; as of wood to a tenant for life, etc., of sustenance to a man confined for felony of his estate, or alimony to a woman divorced out of her husband's estate. Blackstone. Common of estovers. See under Common, n. 

ESTRADE:  A portion of the floor of a room raised above the general level, as a place for a bed or a throne; a platform; a dais. He [the teacher] himself should have his desk on a mounted estrade or platform. J. G. Fitch. 

ESTRANGEDNESS:  State of being estranged; estrangement. Prynne. 

ESTRANGEMENT:  The act of estranging, or the state of being estranged; alienation. An estrangement from God. J. C. Shairp. A long estrangement from better things. South. 

ESTRANGER:  One who estranges. 

ESTRANGLE:  To strangle. [Obs.] 

ESTRAPADE:  The action of a horse, when, to get rid of his rider, he rears, plunges, and kicks furiously. 

ESTRAY:  To stray. [Obs.] Daniel. 

ESTRAY:  Any valuable animal, not wild, found wandering from its owner; a stray. Burrill. 

ESTRE:  The inward part of a building; the interior. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ESTREAT:  A true copy, duplicate, or extract of an original writing or record, esp. of amercements or penalties set down in the rolls of court to be levied by the bailiff, or other officer. Cowell. Estreat of a recognizance, the extracting or taking out a forfeited recognizance from among the other records of the court, for the purpose of a prosecution in another court, or it may be in the same court. Burrill. 

ESTREPE:  To strip or lay bare, as land of wood, houses, etc.; to commit waste. 

ESTREPEMENT:  A destructive kind of waste, committed by a tenant for life, in lands, woods, or houses. Cowell. 

ESTRICH:  The down of the ostrich. Brande & C. 

ESTUANCE:  Heat. [Obs.] 

ESTUARINE:  Pertaining to an estuary; estuary. 

ESTUARY:  Belonging to, or formed in, an estuary; as, estuary strata. Lyell. 

ESTUATE:  To boil up; to swell and rage; to be agitated. Bacon. 

ESTUATION:  The act of estuating; commotion, as of a fluid; agitation. The estuations of joys and fears. W. Montagu. 

ESTUFA:  An assembly room in dwelling of the Pueblo Indians. L. H. Morgan. 

ESTURE:  Commotion. [Obs.] Chapman. 

ESURIENT:  Inclined to eat; hungry; voracious. [R.] Bailey. "Poor, but esurient." Carlyle. 

ESURIENT:  One who is hungry or greedy. [R.] An insatiable esurient after riches. Wood. 

ESURINE:  Causing hunger; eating; corroding. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

ESURINE:  A medicine which provokes appetites, or causes hunger. [Obs.]  -ET -et. Etym: [F. -et, masc., -ette, fem. Cf. -let.]  A noun suffix with a diminutive force; as in baronet, pocket, facet, floweret, latchet. 

ETAAC:  The blue buck. 

ETACISM:  The pronunciation of the Greek ê (eta) like the Italian e long, that is like a in the English word ate. See Itacism. 

ETACIST:  One who favors etacism. 

ETAGERE:  A piece of furniture having a number of uninclosed shelves or stages, one above another, for receiving articles of elegance or use. Fairholt. 

ETAMINE:  A light textile fabric, like a fine bunting. 

ETAPE:  A public storehouse.  2.  Supplies issued to troops on the march; hence (Mil.),  the place where troops on the march halt over night; also, by extension, the distance marched during a day.  3.  In Russia, a prison or stockade for the confinement of prisoners in transit.  ETAT MAJOR É`tat" Ma`jor". Etym: [F., fr. état state + L. major greater.] (Mil.)  The staff of an army, including all officers above the rank of colonel, also, all adjutants, inspectors, quartermasters, commissaries, engineers, ordnance officers, paymasters, physicians, signal officers, judge advocates; also, the noncommissioned assistants of the above officers.  ET CETERA; ET CAETERA Et` cet"e*ra, Et` cæt"e*ra. Etym: [L. et and + caetera other things.]  Others of the like kind; and the rest; and so on; -- used to point out that other things which could be mentioned are to be understood. Usually abbreviated into etc. or &c. (&c). Shak. 

ETCH:  A variant of Eddish. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

ETCH:  To practice etching; to make etchings. 

ETCHER:  One who etches. 

ETEOSTIC:  A kind of chronogram. [R.] B. Jonson. 

ETERMINABLE:  Interminable. [Obs.] Skelton.  ETERN; ETERNE E*tern" or E*terne", a. Etym: [OF. eterne, L. aeternus, for aeviturnus, fr. aevum age. See Age, and cf. Eternal.]  Eternal. [Poetic] Shak. Built up to eterne significance. Mrs. Browning. 

ETERNALIST:  One who holds the existence of matter to be from eternity. T. Burnet. 

ETERNALIZE:  To make eternal. Shelton. 

ETERNALLY:  In an eternal manner. That which is morally good or evil at any time or in any case, must be also eternally and unchangeably so. South. Where western gales eternally reside. Addison. 

ETERNE:  See Etern. 

ETERNIFY:  To make eternal. [Obs.] Fame . . . eternifies the name. Mir. for Mag. 

ETERNIZATION:  The act of eternizing; the act of rendering immortal or famous. 

ETESIAN:  Periodical; annual; -- applied to winds which annually blow from the north over the Mediterranean, esp. the eastern part, for an irregular period during July and August. 

ETHAL:  A white waxy solid, C16H33.OH; -- called also cetylic alcohol. See Cetylic alcohol, under Cetylic. 

ETHANE:  A gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H6, forming a constituent of ordinary illuminating gas. It is the second member of the paraffin series, and its most important derivatives are common alcohol, aldehyde, ether, and acetic acid. Called also dimethyl. 

ETHE:  Easy. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ETHEL:  Noble. [Obs.] 

ETHENE:  Ethylene; olefiant gas. 

ETHENIC:  Pertaining to, derived from. or resembling, ethene or ethylene; as, ethenic ether. 

ETHEOSTOMOID:  Pertaining to, or like, the genus Etheostoma.  -- n.  Any fish of the genus Etheostoma and related genera, allied to the perches; -- also called darter. The etheostomoids are small and often bright-colored fishes inhabiting the fresh waters of North America. About seventy species are known. See Darter. 

ETHER:  A medium of great elasticity and extreme tenuity, supposed to pervade all space, the interior of solid bodies not excepted, and to be the medium of transmission of light and heat; hence often called luminiferous ether.  2. Supposed matter above the air; the air itself.  3. (Chem.) (a) A light, volatile, mobile, inflammable liquid, (C2H5)2O, of a characteristic aromatic odor, obtained by the distillation of alcohol with sulphuric acid, and hence called also sulphuric ether. It is powerful solvent of fats, resins, and pyroxylin, but finds its chief use as an anæsthetic. Called also ethyl oxide.ethyl ether. (b) Any similar oxide of hydrocarbon radicals; as, amyl ether; valeric ether. Complex ether, Mixed ether (Chem.), an oxide of two different radicals in the same molecule; as, ethyl methyl ether, C2H5.O.CH3.  -- Compound ether (Chem.), an ethereal salt or a salt of some hydrocarbon as the base; an ester.  -- Ether engine (Mach.), a condensing engine like a steam engine, but operated by the vapor of ether instead of by steam. 

ETHEREAL:  Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, ether; as, ethereal salts. Ethereal oil. (Chem.) See Essential oil, under Essential.  -- Ethereal oil of wine (Chem.), a heavy, yellow, oily liquid consisting essentially of etherin, etherol, and ethyl sulphate. It is the oily residuum left after etherification. Called also heavy oil of wine (distinguished from oil of wine, or oenanthic ether).  -- Ethereal salt (Chem.), a salt of some organic radical as a base; an ester. 

ETHEREALISM:  Ethereality. 

ETHEREALITY:  The state of being ethereal; etherealness. Something of that ethereality of thought and manner which belonged to Wordsworth's earlier lyrics. J. C. Shairp. 

ETHEREALIZATION:  An ethereal or spiritlike state. J. H. Stirling. 

ETHEREALLY:  In an ethereal manner. 

ETHEREALNESS:  Ethereality. 

ETHEREOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, either. Ethereous oil. See Ethereal oil, under Ethereal. 

ETHERIFICATION:  The act or process of making ether; specifically, the process by which a large quantity of alcohol is transformed into ether by the agency of a small amount of sulphuric, or ethyl sulphuric, acid. 

ETHERIFORM:  Having the form of ether. 

ETHERIN:  A white, crystalline hydrocarbon, regarded as a polymeric variety of ethylene, obtained in heavy oil of wine, the residue left after making ether; -- formerly called also concrete oil of wine. 

ETHEROL:  An oily hydrocarbon regarded as a polymeric variety of ethylene, produced with etherin.  ETHIC; ETHICAL Eth"ic, Eth"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. ethicus, Gr. sidus, G. sitte, Skr. svadh, prob. orig., one's own doing; sva self + dh to set: cf. F. éthique. See So, Do.]  Of, or belonging to, morals; treating of the moral feelings or duties; containing percepts of morality; moral; as, ethic discourses or epistles; an ethical system; ethical philosophy. The ethical meaning of the miracles. Trench. Ethical dative (Gram.), a use of the dative of a pronoun to signify that the person or thing spoken of is regarded with interest by some one; as, Quid mihi Celsus agit How does my friend Celsus do 

ETHICALLY:  According to, in harmony with, moral principles or character. 

ETHICIST:  One who is versed in ethics, or has written on ethics. 

ETHICS:  The science of human duty; the body of rules of duty drawn from this science; a particular system of principles and rules concerting duty, whether true or false; rules of practice in respect to a single class of human actions; as, political or social ethics; medical ethics. The completeness and consistency of its morality is the peculiar praise of the ethics which the Bible has taught. I. Taylor. 

ETHIDE:  Any compound of ethyl of a binary type; as, potassium ethide. 

ETHIDENE:  Ethylidene. [Obs.] 

ETHINE:  Acetylene. 

ETHIONIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid so called. Ethionic acid (Chem.), a liquid derivative of ethylsulphuric and sulphuric (thionic) acids, obtained by the action of sulphur trioxide on absolute alcohol.  ETHIOP; ETHIOPIAN E"thi*op, E`thi*o"pi*an, n. Etym: [L. Aethiops, Gr.  A native or inhabitant of Ethiopia; also, in a general sense, a negro or black man.  ETHIOPIAN; ETHIOPIC E`thi*o"pi*an, E`thi*op"ic, a.  Of or relating to Ethiopia or the Ethiopians. 

ETHIOPIC:  The language of ancient Ethiopia; the language of the ancient Abyssinian empire (in Ethiopia), now used only in the Abyssinian church. It is of Semitic origin, and is also called Geez. 

ETHIOPS:  A black substance; -- formerly applied to various preparations of a black or very dark color. [Written also Æthiops.] [Obs.] Ethiops martial (Old Chem.), black oxide of iron.  -- Ethiops mineral (Old Chem.), black sulphide of mercury, obtained by triturating mercury with sulphur.  -- Ethiops per se (Old Chem.), mercury in finely divided state, having the appearance of a dark powder, obtained by shaking it up or by exposure to the air.  ETHMOID; ETHMOIDAL Eth"moid, Eth*moid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. ethmoïde, ethmoïdal.] (Anat.) (a) Like a sieve; cribriform. (b) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ethmoid bone. Ethmoid bone (Anat.), a bone of complicated structure through which the olfactory nerves pass out of the cranium and over which they are largely distributed. 

ETHMOID:  The ethmoid bone. 

ETHMOTRUBINAL:  See Turbinal.  -- n.  An ethmoturbinal bone. 

ETHMOVOMERINE:  Pertaining to the region of the vomer and the base of the ethmoid in the skull. Ethmovomerine plate (Anat.), a cartilaginous plate beneath the front of the fetal brain which the ethmoid region of the skull is developed. 

ETHNARCH:  The governor of a province or people. Lew Wallace. 

ETHNARCHY:  The dominion of an ethnarch; principality and rule. Wright.  ETHNIC; ETHNICAL Eth"nic, Eth"nic*al, a. Etym: [L. ethnicus, Gr. ethnique.]  1. Belonging to races or nations; based on distinctions of race; ethnological.  2. Pertaining to the gentiles, or nations not converted to Christianity; heathen; pagan; -- opposed to Jewish and Christian. 

ETHNIC:  A heathen; a pagan. [Obs.] No better reported than impure ethnic and lay dogs. Milton. 

ETHNICALLY:  In an ethnical manner. 

ETHNICISM:  Heathenism; paganism; idolatry. [Obs.] "Taint of ethnicism." B. Jonson. 

ETHNOGRAPHER:  One who investigates ethnography.  ETHNOGRAPHIC; ETHNOGRAPHICAL Eth`no*graph"ic, Eth`no*graph"ic*al,. a. Etym: [Cf. F. ethnographique.]  pertaining to ethnography. 

ETHNOGRAPHICALLY:  In an ethnographical manner. 

ETHNOGRAPHY:  That branch of knowledge which has for its subject the characteristics of the human family, developing the details with which ethnology as a comparative science deals; descriptive ethnology. See Ethnology.  ETHNOLOGIC; ETHNOLOGICAL Eth`no*log"ic, Eth`no*log"ic*al, a  Of or pertaining to ethnology. 

ETHNOLOGICALLY:  In an ethnological manner; by ethnological classification; as, one belonging ethnologically to an African race. 

ETHNOLOGIST:  One versed in ethnology; a student of ethnology. 

ETHNOLOGY:  The science which treats of the division of mankind into races, their origin, distribution, and relations, and the peculiarities which characterize them.  ETHOLOGIC; ETHOLOGICAL Eth`o*log"ic, Eth`o*log"ic*al, a Etym: [See Ethology.]  treating of, or pertaining to, ethnic or morality, or the science of character. J. S. Mill. 

ETHOLOGIST:  One who studies or writes upon ethology. 

ETHOPOETIC:  Expressing character. [Obs.] Urquhart. 

ETHOS:  The character, sentiment, or disposition of a community or people, considered as a natural endowment; the spirit which actuates manners and customs; also, the characteristic tone or genius of an institution or social organization.  2.  (Æsthetics) The traits in a work of art which express the ideal or typic character -- character as influenced by the ethos (sense 1) of a people -- rather than realistic or emotional situations or individual character in a narrow sense; -- opposed to pathos. 

ETHULE:  Ethyl. [Obs.] 

ETHYL:  A monatomic, hydrocarbon radical, C2H5 of the paraffin series, forming the essential radical of ethane, and of common alcohol and ether. Ethyl aldehyde. (Chem.) See Aldehyde. 

ETHYLAMINE:  A colorless, mobile, inflammable liquid, C2H5.NH2, very volatile and with an ammoniacal odor. It is a strong base, and is a derivative of ammonia. Called also ethyl carbamine, and amido ethane. 

ETHYLATE:  A compound derived from ethyl alcohol by the replacement of the hydroxyl hydrogen, after the manner of a hydrate; an ethyl alcoholate; as, potassium ethylate, C2H5.O.K. 

ETHYLENE:  A colorless, gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H4, forming an important ingredient of illuminating gas, and also obtained by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid in alcohol. It is an unsaturated compound and combines directly with chlorine and bromine to form oily liquids (Dutch liquid), -- hence called olefiant gas. Called also ethene, elayl, and formerly, bicarbureted hydrogen. Ethylene series (Chem.), the series if unsaturated hydrocarbons of which ethylene is the type, and represented by the general formula CnH2n. 

ETHYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, ethyl; as, ethylic alcohol. 

ETHYLIDENE:  An unsymmetrical, divalent, hydrocarbon radical, C2H4 metameric with ethylene but written thus, CH3.CH to distinguish it from the symmetrical ethylene, CH2.CH2. Its compounds are derived from aldehyde. Formerly called also ethidene. 

ETHYLIN:  Any one of the several complex ethers of ethyl and glycerin. 

ETHYLSULPHURIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, ethyl and sulphuric acid. Ethylsulphuric acid (Chem.), an acid sulphate of ethyl, H.C2H5.SO4, produced as a thick liquid by the action of sulphiric acid on alcohol. It appears to be the active catalytic agent in the process of etherification. 

ETIOLATE:  To become pale through disease or absence of light. 

ETIOLATE:  To cause to grow pale by disease or absence of light.  ETIOLATE; ETIOLATED E"ti*o*late, E"ti*o*la`ted, a.  Having a blanched or faded appearance, as birds inhabiting desert regions. 

ETIOLATION:  Paleness produced by absence of light, or by disease. Dunglison. 

ETIOLIN:  A yellowish coloring matter found in plants grown in darkness, which is supposed to be an antecedent condition of chlorophyll. Encyc. Brit. 

ETIOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to, or inquiring into, causes; ætiological. 

ETIOLOGY:  The science of causes. Same as tiology. 

ETIQUETTE:  The forms required by good breeding, or prescribed by authority, to be observed in social or official life; observance of the proprieties of rank and occasion; conventional decorum; ceremonial code of polite society. The pompous etiquette to the court of Louis the Fourteenth. Prescott. 

ETNA:  A kind of small, portable, cooking apparatus for which heat is furnished by a spirit lamp. There should certainly be an etna for getting a hot cup of coffee in a hurry. V. Baker. 

ETNEAN:  Pertaining to Etna, a volcanic mountain in Sicily. 

ETOILE:  See Estoile. 

ETRURIAN:  Of or relating to ancient Etruria, in Italy. "Etrurian Shades." Milton, -- n.  A native or inhabitant of ancient Etruria. 

ETRUSCAN:  Of or relating to Etruria.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Etruria.  ETTER PIKE Et"ter pike`, n. Etym: [Cf. Atter.] (Zoöl.)  The stingfish, or lesser weever (Tranchinus vipera). 

ETTIN:  A giant. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 

ETTLE:  To earn. [Obs.] See Addle, to earn. Boucher. 

ETUDE:  A study; an exercise; a piece for practice of some special point of technical execution. 

ETUI:  A case for one several small articles; esp., a box in which scissors, tweezers, and other articles of toilet or of daily use are carried. 

ETWEE:  See . Shenstone. 

ETYM:  See Etymon. H. F. Talbot. 

ETYMIC:  Relating to the etymon; as, an etymic word. 

ETYMOLOGER:  An etymologist. 

ETYMOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to etymology, or the derivation of words.  -- Et`y*mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ETYMOLOGICON:  an etymological dictionary or manual. 

ETYMOLOGIST:  One who investigates the derivation of words. 

ETYMOLOGIZE:  To give the etymology of; to trace to the root or primitive, as a word. Camden 

ETYMOLOGIZE:  To search into the origin of words; to deduce words from their simple roots. How perilous it is to etymologize at random. Trench. 

ETYMON:  1. An original form; primitive word; root.  2. Original or fundamental signification. [R.] Given as the etymon or genuine sense of the word. Coleridge. 

ETYPICAL:  Diverging from, or lacking conformity to, a type. 

EU:  A prefix used frequently in composition, signifying well, good, advantageous; -- the opposite of dys-. 

EUCAIRITE:  A metallic mineral, a selenide of copper and silver; -- so called by Berzelius on account of its being found soon after the discovery of the metal selenium. 

EUCALYN:  An unfermentable sugar, obtained as an uncrystallizable sirup by the decomposition of melitose; also obtained from a Tasmanian eucalyptus, -- whence its name. 

EUCALYPTOL:  A volatile, terpenelike oil extracted from the eucalyptus, and consisting largely of cymene. 

EUCALYPTUS:  A myrtaceous genus of trees, mostly Australian. Many of them grow to an immense height, one or two species exceeding the height even of the California Sequoia.  Note: They have rigid, entire leaves with one edge turned toward the zenith. Most of them secrete resinous gums, whence they called gum trees, and their timber is of great value. Eucalyptus Globulus is the blue gum; E. aigantea, the stringy bark: E. amygdalina, the peppermint tree. E. Gunnii, the Tasmanian cider tree, yields a refreshing drink from wounds made in the bark in the spring. Center species yield oils, tars, acids, dyes and tans. It is said that miasmatic valleys in Algeria and Portugal, and a part of the unhealthy Roman Campagna, have been made more salubrious by planting groves of these trees. 

EUCHARIS:  A genus of South American amaryllidaceous plants with large and beautiful white blossoms. 

EUCHARIST:  The sacrament of the Lord's Supper; the solemn act of ceremony of commemorating the death of Christ, in the use of bread and wine, as the appointed emblems; the communion.  -- See Sacrament.  EUCHARISTIC; EUCHARISTICAL Eu`cha*ris"tic, Eu`cha*ris"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. eucharistie.]  1. Giving thanks; expressing thankfulness; rejoicing. [Obs.] The eucharistical part of our daily devotions. Ray.  2. Pertaining to the Lord's Supper. "The eucharistic sacrament." Sir. G. C. Lewis. 

EUCHITE:  One who resolves religion into prayer. [Obs.] Gauden. 

EUCHLORIC:  Relating to, or consisting of, euchlorine; as, euchloric . Davy. 

EUCHLORINE:  A yellow or greenish yellow gas, first prepared by Davy, evolved from potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid. It is supposed to consist of chlorine tetroxide with some free chlorine.  EUCHOLOGION; EUCHOLOGY Eu`cho*lo"gi*on, Eu*chol"o*gy, n. Etym: [NL. euchologion, Gr. (Eccl.)  A formulary of prayers; the book of offices in the Greek Church, containing the liturgy, sacraments, and forms of prayers. 

EUCHOLOGUE:  Euchology. [R.] 

EUCHRE:  A game at cards, that may be played by two, three, or four persons, the highest card (except when an extra card called the Joker is used) being the knave of the same suit as the trump, and called right bower, the lowest card used being the seven, or frequently, in two-handed euchre, the nine spot. See Bower. 

EUCHROIC:  Having a fine color. Euchroic acid (Chem.), an organic, imide acid, obtained as a colorless crystalline substance, C12H4N2O8 by heating an ammonium salt of mellitic acid. By reduction it is changed to a dark blue substance (euchrone), -- hence its name. 

EUCHROITE:  A mineral occurring in transparent emerald green crystals. It is hydrous arseniate of copper. 

EUCHRONE:  A substance obtained from euchroic acid. See Eychroic. 

EUCHYMY:  A good state of he blood and other fluids of the body. 

EUCLASE:  A brittle gem occurring in light green, transparent crystals, affording a brilliant clinodiagonal cleavage. It is a silicate of alumina and glucina. 

EUCLID:  A Greek geometer of the 3d century 

EUCLIDIAN:  Related to Euclid, or to the geometry of Euclid. Euclidian space (Geom.), the kind of space to which the axioms and definitions of Euclid, relative to straight lines and parallel lines, apply; -- called also flat space, and homaloidal space. 

EUCOPEPODA:  A group which includes the typical copepods and the lerneans. 

EUCRASY:  Such a due mixture of qualities in bodies as constitutes health or soundness. Quincy. 

EUCTICAL:  Expecting a wish; supplicatory. [R.] Sacrifices . . . distinguished into expiatory, euctical, and eucharistical. Bp. Law.  EUDEMON; EUDAEMON Eu*de"mon, Eu*dæ"mon, n. Etym: [Gr.  A good angel. Southey.  EUDEMONICS; EUDAEMONICS Eu`de*mon"ics, Eu`dæ*mon"ics, n. Etym: [Gr. Eudemonism.]  That part of moral philosophy which treats of happiness; the science of happiness; -- contrasted with aretaics. J. Grote.  EUDEMONISM; EUDAEMONISM Eu*de"mon*ism, Eu*dæ"mon*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. Demon.]  That system of ethics which defines and enforces moral obligation by its relation to happiness or personal well-being.  EUDEMONIST; EUDAEMONIST Eu*de"mon*ist, Eu*dæ"mon*ist, n.  One who believes in eudemonism. I am too much of a eudæmonist; I hanker too much after a state of happiness both for myself and others. De Quincey.  EUDEMONISTIC; EUDAEMONISTIC Eu*de`mon*is"tic , Eu*dæ`mon*is"tic, a.  Of or pertaining to eudemonism.  EUDEMONISTICAL; EUDAEMONISTICAL Eu*de`mon*is"tic*al, Eu*dæ`mon*is"tic*al, a.  Eudemonistic. 

EUDIALYTE:  A mineral of a brownish red color and vitreous luster, consisting chiefly of the silicates of iron, zirconia, and lime. 

EUDIOMETER:  An instrument for the volumetric measurement of gases; -- so named because frequently used to determine the purity of the air.  Note: It usually consists of a finely graduated and calibrated glass tube, open at one end, the bottom; and having near the top a pair of platinum wires fused in, to allow the passage of an electric spark, as the process involves the explosion and combustion of one of the ingredients to be determined. The operation is conducted in a through of mercury, or sometimes over water. Cf. Burette. Use's ediometer has the tube bent in the form of the letter. U.  EUDIOMETRIC; EUDIOMETRICAL Eu`di*o*met"ric, Eu`di*o*met"ric*al, a.  Of or pertaining to a eudiometer; as, eudiometrical experiments or results. 

EUDIOMETRY:  The art or process of determining he constituents of a gaseous mixture by means of the eudiometer, or for ascertaining the purity of the air or the amount of oxygen in it. 

EUDIPLEURA:  The fundamental forms of organic life, that are composed of two equal and symmetrical halves. Syd. Soc. Lex. 

EUDOXIAN:  A follower of Eudoxius, patriarch of Antioch and Constantinople in the 4th century, and a celebrated defender of the doctrines of Arius. 

EUGANOIDEI:  A group which includes the bony ganoids, as the gar pikes. 

EUGE:  Applause. [Obs.] Hammond. 

EUGENESIS:  The quality or condition of having strong reproductive powers; generation with full fertility between different species or races, specif. between hybrids of the first generation. 

EUGENIA:  A genus of mytraceous plants, mostly of tropical countries, and including several aromatic trees and shrubs, among which are the trees which produce allspice and cloves of commerce. 

EUGENIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, cloves; as, eugenic acid. 

EUGENIC:  Well-born; of high birth. Atlantic Monthly. 

EUGENICS:  The science of improving stock, whether human or animal. F. Galton. 

EUGENIN:  A colorless, crystalline substance extracted from oil of cloves; -- called also clove camphor. 

EUGENOL:  A colorless, aromatic, liquid hydrocarbon, C10H12O2 resembling the phenols, and hence also called eugenic acid. It is found in the oils of pimento and cloves. 

EUGENY:  Nobleness of birth. [Obs.]  EUGETIC; EUGETINIC Eu*get"ic, Eu`ge*tin"ic, a. (Chem)  Pertaining to, or derived from, eugenol; as, eugetic acid. 

EUGH:  The yew. [Obs.] Dryden.  EUGUBIAN; EUGUBINE Eu*gu"bi*an, Eu"gu*bine, a.  Of or pertaining to the ancient town of Eugubium (now Gubbio); as, the Eugubine tablets, or tables, or inscriptions. 

EUHARMONIC:  Producing mathematically perfect harmony or concord; sweetly or perfectly harmonious. 

EUHEMERISM:  The theory, held by Euhemerus, that the gods of mythology were but deified mortals, and their deeds only the amplification in imagination of human acts. 

EUHEMERIST:  One who advocates euhemerism. 

EUHEMERISTIC:  Of or pertaining to euhemerism. 

EUHEMERIZE:  To interpret (mythology) on the theory of euhemerism. 

EUISOPODA:  A group which includes the typical Isopoda. 

EULACHON:  The candlefish. [Written also oulachan, oolacan, and ulikon.] See Candlefish. 

EULERIAN:  Pertaining Euler, a German mathematician of the 18th century. Eulerian integrals, certain definite integrals whose properties were first investigated by Euler.  EULOGIC; EULOGICAL Eu*log"ic, Eu*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Eulogy.]  Bestowing praise of eulogy; commendatory; eulogistic. [R.] -- Eu*log"ic*al*ly, adv. [R.] 

EULOGIST:  One who eulogizes or praises; panegyrist; encomiast. Buckle.  EULOGISTIC; EULOGISTICAL Eu`lo*gis"tic, Eu`lo*gis"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to eulogy; characterized by eulogy; bestowing praise; panegyrical; commendatory; laudatory; as, eulogistic speech or discourse.  -- Eu"lo*gis"tic*al*ly, adv. 

EULOGIUM:  A formal eulogy. Smollett. 

EULOGIZE:  To speak or write in commendation of (another); to extol in speech or writing; to praise. 

EULOGY:  A speech or writing in commendation of the character or services of a person; as, a fitting eulogy to worth. Eulogies turn into elegies. Spenser.  Syn.  -- Encomium; praise; panegyric; applause.  -- Eulogy, Eulogium, Encomium, Panegyric. The idea of praise is common to all these words. The word encomium is used of both persons and things which are the result of human action, and denotes warm praise. Eulogium and eulogy apply only to persons and are more studied and of greater length. A panegyric was originally a set speech in a full assembly of the people, and hence denotes a more formal eulogy, couched in terms of warm and continuous praise, especially as to personal character. We may bestow encomiums on any work of art, on production of genius, without reference to the performer; we bestow eulogies, or pronounce a eulogium, upon some individual distinguished for his merit public services; we pronounce a panegyric before an assembly gathered for the occasion. 

EULYTITE:  a mineral, consisting chiefly of the silicate of bismuth, found at Freiberg; -- called also culytine. 

EUMENIDES:  A euphemistic name for the Furies of Erinyes. 

EUMOLPUS:  A genus of small beetles, one species of which (E. viti) is very injurious to the vines in the wine countries of Europe. 

EUNOMIAN:  A follower of Eunomius, bishop of Cyzicus (4th century A. D.), who held that Christ was not God but a created being, having a nature different from that of the Father.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to Eunomius or his doctrine. 

EUNOMY:  Equal law, or a well-adjusted constitution of government. [R.] Mitford. 

EUNUCH:  A male of the human species castrated; commonly, one of a class of such persons, in Oriental countries, having charge of the women's apartments. Some of them, in former times, gained high official rank.  EUNUCH; EUNUCHATE Eu"nuch, Eu"nuch*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. eunuchare.]  To make a eunuch of; to castrate. as a man. Creech. Sir. T. Browne. 

EUNUCHISM:  The state of being eunuch. Bp. Hall. 

EUONYMIN:  A principle or mixture of principles derived from Euonymus atropurpureus, or spindle tree. 

EUONYMUS:  A genus of small European and American trees; the spindle tree. The bark is used as a cathartic. 

EUORNITHES:  The division of Aves which includes all the typical birds, or all living birds except the penguins and birds of ostrichlike form. 

EUOSMITTE:  A fossil resin, so called from its strong, peculiar, pleasant odor. 

EUPATHY:  Right feeling. [R.] Harris.  EUPATORIN; EUPATORINE Eu*pat"o*rin Eu*pat"o*rine, n. (Med.)  A principle or mixture of principles extracted from various species of Eupatorium. 

EUPATORIUM:  A genus of perennial, composite herbs including hemp agrimony, boneset, throughwort, etc. 

EUPATRID:  One well born, or of noble birth.  EUPEPSIA; EUPEPSY Eu*pep"si*a, Eu*pep"sy, n. Etym: [NL. eupepsia, Fr. Gr. (Med.)  Soundness of the nutritive or digestive organs; good concoction or digestion; -- opposed to dyspepsia. 

EUPEPTIC:  Of or pertaining to good digestion; easy of digestion; having a good digestion; as, eupeptic food; an eupeptic man. Wrapt in lazy eupeptic fat. Carlyle. 

EUPHEMISM:  A figure in which a harts or indelicate word or expression is softened; a way of describing an offensive thing by an inoffensive expression; a mild name for something disagreeable.  EUPHEMISTIC; EUPHEMISTICAL Eu`phe*mis"tic, Eu`phe*mis"tic*al, a.  Pertaining to euphemism; containing a euphemism; softened in expression.  -- Eu`phe*mis"tic*al*ly, adv. 

EUPHEMIZE:  To express by a euphemism, or in delicate language; to make use of euphemistic expressions. 

EUPHONIAD:  An instrument in which are combined the characteristic tones of the organ and various other instruments. [R.]  EUPHONIC; EUPHONICAL Eu*phon"ic, Eu*phon"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to, or exhibiting, euphony; agreeable in sound; pleasing to the ear; euphonious; as, a euphonic expression; euphonical orthography. 

EUPHONICON:  A kind of uptight piano. 

EUPHONIOUS:  Pleasing or sweet in sound; euphonic; smooth-sounding. Hallam.  -- Eu*pho"ni*ous*ly, adv. 

EUPHONISM:  An agreeable combination of sounds; euphony. 

EUPHONIUM:  A bass instrument of the saxhorn family. 

EUPHONIZE:  To make euphonic. [R.] 

EUPHONON:  An instrument resembling the organ in tine and the upright piano in form. It is characterized by great strength and sweetness of tone. 

EUPHONOUS:  Euphonious. [R.] 

EUPHONY:  A pleasing or sweet sound; an easy, smooth enunciation of sounds; a pronunciation of letters and syllables which is pleasing to the ear. 

EUPHORBIA:  Spurge, or bastard spurge, a genus of plants of many species, mostly shrubby, herbaceous succulents, affording an acrid, milky juice. Some of them are armed with thorns. Most of them yield powerful emetic and cathartic products.  EUPHORBIACEOUS; EUPHORBIAL Eu*phor`bi*a"ceous, Eu*phor"bi*al, a. (Bot.)  Of, relating to, or resembling, the Euphorbia family.  EUPHORBIN; EUPHORBINE Eu*phor"bin Eu*phor"bine, n. (Med.)  A principle, or mixture of principles, derived from various species of Euphorbia. 

EUPHORBIUM:  An inodorous exudation, usually in the form of yellow tears, produced chiefly by the African Euphorbia resinifrea. It was formerly employed medicinally, but was found so violent in its effects that its use is nearly abandoned. 

EUPHOTIDE:  A rock occurring in the Alps, consisting of saussurite and smaragdite; -- sometimes called gabbro. 

EUPHRASY:  The plant eyesight (euphrasia officionalis), formerly regarded as beneficial in disorders of the eyes. Then purged with euphrasy and rue The visual nerve, for he had much to see. Milton. 

EUPHROE:  A block or long slat of wood, perforated for the passage of the crowfoot, or cords by which an awning is held up. [Written also uphroe and uvrou.] Knight. 

EUPHUISM:  An affectation of excessive elegance and refinement of language; high-flown diction. 

EUPHUIST:  One who affects excessive refinement and elegance of language; -- applied esp. to a class of writers, in the age of Elizabeth, whose productions are marked by affected conceits and high-flown diction. 

EUPHUISTIC:  Belonging to the euphuists, or euphuism; affectedly refined. 

EUPHUIZE:  To affect excessive refinement in language; to be overnice in expression. 

EUPIONE:  A limpid, oily liquid obtained by the destructive distillation of various vegetable and animal substances; -- specifically, an oil consisting largely of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series. [Written also eupion.] 

EUPITTONE:  A yellow, crystalline substance, resembling aurin, and obtained by the oxidation of pittacal; -- called also eupittonic acid. [Written also eupitton.] 

EUPITTONIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, eupittone. 

EUPLASTIC:  Having the capacity of becoming organizable in a high degree, as the matter forming the false membranes which sometimes result from acute inflammation in a healthy person. Dunglison. 

EUPLASTIC:  Organizable substance by which the tissues of an animal body are renewed. 

EUPLECTELLA:  A genus of elegant, glassy sponges, consisting of interwoven siliceous fibers, and growing in the form of a cornucopia; -- called also Venus's flower-basket. 

EUPLEXOPTERA:  An order of insects, including the earwig. The anterior wings are short, in the form of elytra, while the posterior wings fold up beneath them. See Earwig. 

EUPNAEA:  Normal breathing where arterialization of the blood is normal, in distinction from dyspnæa, in which the blood is insufficiently arterialized. Foster.  EUPRYION; EUPYRION Eu*pry"i*on, Eu*py"ri*on, n. Etym: [Gr.  A contrivance for obtaining a light instantaneous, as a lucifer match. Brande & C.  EURAFRIC; EURAFRICAN Eur*af"ric, Eur*af"ri*can, a. [Europe + Afric, African.]  1. (Geog.)  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the continents of Europe and Africa combined.  2.  (Zoögeography) Pert. to or designating a region including most of Europe and northern Africa south to the Sahara.  3.  Of European and African descent. 

EURASIAN:  Of European and Asiatic descent; of or pertaining to both Europe and Asia; as, the great Eurasian plain. 

EURASIATIO:  Of or pertaining to the continents of Europe and Asia combined. 

EUREKA:  The exclamation attributed to Archimedes, who is said to have cried out "Eureka! eureka!" (I have found it! I have found it!), upon suddenly discovering a method of finding out how much the gold of King Hiero's crown had been alloyed. Hence, an expression of triumph concerning a discovery. 

EURHIPIDUROUS:  Having a fanlike tail; belonging to the Eurhipiduræ, a division of Aves which includes all living birds. 

EURIPIZE:  To whirl hither and thither. [Obs.] 

EURIPUS:  A strait; a narrow tract of water, where the tide, or a current, flows and reflows with violence, as the ancient fright of this name between Eubæa and Bæotia. Hence, a flux and reflux. Burke. 

EURITE:  A compact feldspathic rock; felsite. See Felsite. 

EURITIC:  Of or pelating to eurite. 

EUROCLYDON:  A tempestuous northeast wind which blows in the Mediterranean. See Levanter. A tempestuous wind called Euroclydon. Acts xxvii. 14. 

EUROPEAN:  Of or pertaining to Europe, or to its inhabitants. On the European plain, having rooms to let, and leaving it optional with guests whether they will take meals in the house; -- said of hotels. [U. S.] 

EUROPEAN:  A native or an inhabitant of Europe. 

EUROPEANIZE:  To cause to become like the Europeans in manners or character; to habituate or accustom to European usages. A state of society . . . changed and Europenized. Lubbock. 

EUROPIUM:  A metallic element of the rare-earth group, discovered spectroscopically by Demarcay in 1896. Symbol, Eu; at. wt., 152.0. 

EURUS:  The east wind. 

EURYALE:  A genus of water lilies, growing in India and China. The only species (E. ferox) is very prickly on the peduncles and calyx. The rootstocks and seeds are used as food.  2. (Zoöl)  A genus of ophiurans with much-branched arms. 

EURYALIDA:  A tribe of Ophiuroidea, including the genera Euryale, Astrophyton, etc. They generally have the arms branched. See Astrophyton. 

EURYCEROUS:  Having broad horns. 

EURYPTEROID:  Like, or pertaining to, the genus Euryperus. 

EURYPTEROIDEA:  An extinct order of Merostomata, of which the genus Eurypterus is the type. They are found only in Paleozoic rocks. [Written also Eurypterida.] 

EURYPTERUS:  A genus of extinct Merostomata, found in Silurian rocks. Some of the species are more than three feet long. 

EURYTHMY:  Just or harmonious proportion or movement, as in the composition of a poem, an edifice, a painting, or a statue.  2. (Med.)  Regularly of the pulse. 

EUSEBIAN:  A follower of Eusebius, bishop of Cæsarea, who was a friend and protector of Arius. 

EUSTYLE:  See Intercolumnlation. 

EUTAXY:  Good or established order or arrangement. [R.] E. Waterhouse. 

EUTECTIC:  Of maximum fusibility; -- said of an alloy or mixture which has the lowest melting point which it is possible to obtain by the combination of the given components. 

EUTERPE:  The Muse who presided over music.  2. (Bot.)  A genus of palms, some species of which are elegant trees. 

EUTERPEAN:  Of or pertaining to Euterpe or to music. 

EUTEXIA:  The principle or process of forming from given components the eutectic alloy, or alloy of maximum fusibility. 

EUTHANASIA:  An easy death; a mode of dying to be desired. "An euthanasia of all thought." Hazlitt. The kindest wish of my friends is euthanasia. Arbuthnot. 

EUTHANASY:  Same as Euthanasia. 

EUTHIOCHROIC:  Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid so called. Euthiochroic acid (Chem.), a complex derivative of hydroquinone and sulphonic (thionic) acid.  -- so called because it contains sulphur, and forms brilliantly colored (yellow) salts. 

EUTHYNEURA:  A large division of gastropod molluske, including the Pulmonifera and Opisthobranchiata. 

EUTROPHY:  Healthy nutrition; soundless as regards the nutritive functions. 

EUTYCHIAN:  A follower of Eutyches [5th century], who held that the divine and the human in the person of Christ were blended together as to constitute but one nature; a monophysite; -- opposed to Nestorian. 

EUTYCHIANISM:  The doctrine of Eutyches and his followers. 

EUXANTHIC:  Having a yellow color; pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, euxanthin. Euxanthic acid (Chem.), a yellow, crystalline, organic acid, extracted from euxanthin. 

EUXANTHIN:  A yellow pigment imported from India and China. It has a strong odor, and is said to be obtained from the urine of herbivorous animals when fed on the mango. It consists if a magnesium salt of euxanthic acid. Called also puri, purree, and Indian yellow. 

EUXENITE:  A brownish black mineral with a metallic luster, found in Norway. It contains niobium, titanium, yttrium, and uranium, with some other metals. 

EVACATE:  To empty. [Obs.] Harvey. 

EVACUANT:  Emptying; evacuative; purgative; cathartic.  -- n. (Med.)  A purgative or cathartic. 

EVACUATE:  To let blood [Obs.] Burton. 

EVACUATIVE:  Serving of tending to evacuate; cathartic; purgative. 

EVACUATOR:  One who evacuates; a nullifier. "Evacuators of the law." Hammond. 

EVACUATORY:  A purgative. 

EVADE:  To get away from by artifice; to avoid by dexterity, subterfuge, address, or ingenuity; to elude; to escape from cleverly; as, to evade a blow, a pursuer, a punishment; to evade the force of an argument. The heathen had a method, more truly their own, of evading the Christian miracles. Trench. 

EVADIBLE:  Capable of being evaded. [R.] 

EVAGATION:  A wandering about; excursion; a roving. [R.] Ray. 

EVAGINATE:  Protruded, or grown out, as an evagination; turned inside out; unsheathed; evaginated; as, an evaginate membrane. 

EVAGINATE:  To become evaginate; to cause to be evaginate. 

EVAGINATION:  The act of unsheathing. 

EVAL:  Relating to time or duration. [Obs.] 

EVALUATE:  To fix the value of; to rate; to appraise. 

EVALUATION:  Valuation; appraisement. J. S. Mill. 

EVANESCE:  To vanish away; to because dissipated and disappear, like vapor. I believe him to have evanesced or evaporated. De Quincey. 

EVANESCENCE:  The act or state of vanishing away; disappearance; as, the evanescence of vapor, of a dream, of earthly plants or hopes. Rambler. 

EVANESCENTLY:  ; imperceptibly. Chalmers. 

EVANGEL:  Good news; announcement of glad tidings; especially, the gospel, or a gospel. Milton. Her funeral anthem is a glad evangel. Whittier. 

EVANGELIAN:  Rendering thanks for favors. 

EVANGELIC:  Belonging to, or contained in, the gospel; evangelical. "Evangelic truth." J. Foster. 

EVANGELICAL:  One of evangelical principles. 

EVANGELICALISM:  Adherence to evangelical doctrines; evangelism. G. Eliot. 

EVANGELICALLY:  In an evangelical manner. 

EVANGELICALNESS:  State of being evangelical. 

EVANGELICISM:  Evangelical principles; evangelism. 

EVANGELICITY:  Evangelicism. 

EVANGELISM:  The preaching or promulgation of the gospel. Bacon. 

EVANGELIST:  A bringer of the glad tidings of Church and his doctrines. Specially: (a) A missionary preacher sent forth to prepare the way for a resident pastor; an itinerant missionary preacher. (b) A writer of one of the four Gospels (With the definite article); as, the four evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. (c) A traveling preacher whose efforts are chiefly directed to arouse to immediate repentance. The Apostles, so far as they evangelized, might claim the tittle though there were many evangelists who were not Apistles. Plumptre. 

EVANGELISTARY:  A selection of passages from the Gospels, as a lesson in divine service. Porson. 

EVANGELISTIC:  Pertaining to the four evangelists; designed or fitted to evangelize; evangelical; as, evangelistic efforts. 

EVANGELIZATION:  The act of evangelizing; the state of being evangelized. The work of Christ's ministers is evangelization. Hobbes. 

EVANGELIZE:  To instruct in the gospel; to preach the gospel to; to convert to Christianity; as, to evangelize the world. His apostles whom he sends To evangelize the nations. Milton. 

EVANGELIZE:  To preach the gospel. 

EVANGELY:  Evangel. [Obs.] The sacred pledge of Christ's evangely. Spenser. 

EVANGILE:  Good tidings; evangel. [R.] Above all, the Servians . . . read, with much avidity, the evangile of their freedom. Londor. 

EVANID:  Liable to vanish or disappear; faint; weak; evanescent; as, evanid color. [Obs.] They are very transistory and evanid. Barrow. 

EVANISH:  To vanish. Or like the rainbow's lovely form, Evanishing amid the storm. Burns. 

EVANISHMENT:  A vanishing; disappearance. [R.] T. Jefferson. 

EVAPORABLE:  Capable of being converted into vapor, or dissipated by evaporation. 

EVAPORATE:  Dispersed in vapors. Thomson. 

EVAPORATION:  See Vaporization. 

EVAPORATIVE:  Pertaining to, or producing, evaporation; as, the evaporative process. 

EVAPORATOR:  An apparatus for condensing vegetable juices, or for drying fruit by heat. 

EVAPOROMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of a fluid evaporated in a given time; an atmometer. 

EVASIBLE:  That may be evaded. [R.] 

EVASION:  The act of eluding or avoiding, particularly the pressure of an argument, accusation, charge, or interrogation; artful means of eluding. Thou . . . by evasions thy crime uncoverest more. Milton.  Syn.  -- Shift; subterfuge; shuffling; prevarication; equivocation. 

EVASIVE:  Tending to evade, or marked by evasion; elusive; shuffling; avoiding by artifice. Thus he, though conscious of the ethereal guest, Answered evasive of the sly request. Pope. Stammered out a few evasive phrases. Macaulay. -- E*va"sive*ly , adv.  -- E*va"sive*ness, n. 

EVECTICS:  The branch of medical science which teaches the method of acquiring a good habit of body. [Obs.] 

EVEN:  Evening. See Eve, n. 1. [Poetic.] Shak. 

EVEN:  To be equal. [Obs.] R. Carew. 

EVENE:  To happen. [Obs.] Hewyt. 

EVENFALL:  Beginning of evening. "At the quiet evenfall." Tennyson. 

EVENHAND:  Equality. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EVENHANDED:  Fair or impartial; unbiased. "Evenhanded justice." Shak.  -- E"ven*hand`ed*ly, adv.  -- E"ven*hand`ed*ness, n. 

EVENLY:  With an even, level, or smooth surface; without roughness, elevations, or depression; uniformly; equally; comfortably; impartially; serenely. 

EVENMINDED:  Having equanimity. 

EVENNESS:  The state of being ven, level, or disturbed; smoothness; horizontal position; uniformity; impartiality; calmness; equanimity; appropriate place or level; as, evenness of surface, of a fluid at rest, of motion, of dealings, of temper, of condition. It had need be something extraordinary, that must warrant an ordinary person to rise higher than his own evenness. Jer. Taylor. 

EVENSONG:  A song for the evening; the evening service or form of worship (in the Church of England including vespers and compline); also, the time of evensong. Wyclif. Milton. 

EVENT:  To break forth. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

EVENTERATE:  To rip open; todisembowel. [Obs.] Sir. T. Brown. 

EVENTFUL:  Full of, or rich in, events or incidents; as, an eventful journey; an eventful period of history; an eventful period of life. 

EVENTIDE:  The time of evening; evening. [Poetic.] Spenser. 

EVENTILATION:  The act of eventilating; discussion. [Obs.] Bp. Berkely. 

EVENTLESS:  Without events; tame; monotomous; marked by nothing unusual; uneventful. 

EVENTOGNATHI:  An order of fishes including a vast number of freshwater species such as the carp, loach, chub, etc. 

EVENTUAL:  Dependent on events; contingent. Marshall. 

EVENTUALITY:  Disposition to take cognizance of events. 

EVENTUALLY:  In an eventual manner; finally; ultimately. 

EVENTUATE:  To come out finally or in conclusion; to result; to come to pass. 

EVENTUATION:  The act of eventuating or happening as a result; the outcome. R. W. Hamilton. 

EVERDURING:  Everlasting. Shak. 

EVERGLADE:  A swamp or low tract of land inundated with water and interspersed with hummocks, or small islands, and patches of high grass; as, the everglades of Florida. [U. S.] 

EVERGREEN:  Remaining unwithered through the winter, or retaining unwithered leaves until the leaves of the next year are expanded, as pines cedars, hemlocks, and the like. 

EVERGREEN:  An evergreen plant.  2. pl.  Twigs and branches of evergreen plants used for decoration. "The funeral evengreens entwine." Keble.  EVERGREEN STATE Evergreen State.  Washington; -- a nickname alluding to the abundance of evergreen trees.  EVERICH; EVERYCH Ev"er*ich, Ev"er*ych, a. Etym: [OE. see Every.]  each one; every one; each of two. See Every. [Obs.] Chaucer.  EVERICHON; EVERYCHON Ev`er*ich*on", Ev`er*ych*on", pron. Etym: [OE. everich + oon, on, one. See Every, and One.]  Every one. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EVERLASTING:  A plant whose flowers may be dried without losing their form or color, as the pearly everlasting (Anaphalis margaritacea), the immortelle of the French, the cudweeds, etc.  4. A cloth fabic for shoes, etc. See Lasting. 

EVERLASTINGLY:  In an everlasting manner. 

EVERLASTINGNESS:  The state of being everlasting; endless duration; indefinite duration. 

EVERMORE:  During eternity; always; forever; for an indefinite period; at all times; -- often used substantively with for. Seek the Lord . . . Seek his face evermore. Ps. cv. 4. And, behold, I am alive for evermore. Rev. i. 18. Which flow from the presence of God for evermore. Tillotson. I evermore did love you, Hermia. Shak. 

EVERNIC:  Pertaining to Evernia, a genus of lichens; as, evernic acid. 

EVERSE:  To overthrow or subvert. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

EVERSIVE:  Tending to evert or overthrow; subversive; with of. A maxim eversive . . . of all justice and morality. Geddes. 

EVERYBODY:  Every person. 

EVERYDAY:  Used or fit for every day; common; usual; as, an everyday suit or clothes. The mechanical drudgery of his everyday employment. Sir. J. Herchel. 

EVERYONE:  Everybody; -- commonly separated, every one. 

EVERYTHING:  Whatever pertains to the subject under consideration; all things. More wise, more learned, more just, more everything. Pope. 

EVERYWHEN:  At any or all times; every instant. [R.] "Eternal law is silently present everywhere and everywhen." Carlyle. 

EVERYWHERE:  In every place; in all places; hence, in every part; throughly; altogether. 

EVERYWHERENESS:  Ubiquity; omnipresence. [R.] Grew. 

EVESDROP:  See Eavesdrop. 

EVESDROPPER:  See Eavesdropper. 

EVESTIGATE:  To investigate. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EVET:  The common newt or eft. In America often applied to several species of aquatic salamanders. [Written also evat.] 

EVIBRATE:  To vibrate. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EVICT:  To dispossess by a judicial process; to dispossess by paramount right or claim of such right; to eject; to oust. The law of England would speedily evict them out of their possession. Sir. J. Davies.  2. To evince; to prove. [Obs.] Cheyne. 

EVIDENCE:  That which is legally submitted to competent tribunal, as a means of ascertaining the truth of any alleged matter of fact under investigation before it; means of making proof; -- the latter, strictly speaking, not being synonymous with evidence, but rather the effect of it. Greenleaf. Circumstantial evidence, Conclusive evidence, etc. See under Circumstantial, Conclusive, etc.  -- Crown's, King's, or Queen's evidence, evidence for the crown. [Eng.] -- State's evidence, evidence for the government or the people. [U. S. ] -- To turn King's, Queen's or State's evidence, to confess a crime and give evidence against one's accomplices.  Syn.  -- Testimony; proof. See Tesimony. 

EVIDENCE:  To render evident or clear; to prove; to evince; as, to evidence a fact, or the guilt of an offender. Milton. 

EVIDENCER:  One whi gives evidence. 

EVIDENT:  Clear to the vision; especially, clear to the understanding, and satisfactory to the judgment; as, the figure or color of a body is evident to the senses; the guilt of an offender can not always be made evident. Your honor and your goodness is so evident. Shak. And in our faces evident the sings Of foul concupiscence. Milton.  Syn.  -- Manifest; plain; clear; obvious; visible; apparent; conclusive; indubitable; palpable; notorious. See Manifest. 

EVIDENTIAL:  Relating to, or affording, evidence; indicative; especially, relating to the evidences of Christianity. Bp. Fleetwood. "Evidential tracks." Earle..  -- Ev`i*den"tial*ly, adv. 

EVIDENTIARY:  Furnishing evidence; asserting; proving; evidential. When a fact is supposed, although incorrectly, to be evidentiary of, a mark of, some other fact. J. S. Mill. 

EVIDENTLY:  In an evident manner; clearly; plainly. Before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth. Gal. iii. 1. He has evidently in the prime of youth. W. Irving. 

EVIDENTNESS:  State of being evident. 

EVIGILATION:  A waking up or awakening. [Obs.] 

EVIL:  In an evil manner; not well; ill; badly; unhappily; injuriously; unkindly. Shak. It went evil with his house. 1 Chron. vii. 23. The Egyptians evil entreated us, and affected us. Deut. xxvi. 6.  EVIL EYE E"vil eye`  . See Evil eye under Evil, a.  EVIL-EYED E"vil-eyed a.  Possessed of the supposed evil eye; also, looking with envy, jealousy, or bad design; malicious. Shak.  EVIL-FAVORED E"vil-fa`vored, a.  Having a bad countenance or appearance; ill-favored; blemished; deformed. Bacon. -- E"vil-fa`vored*ness, n. Deut. xvi. 1. 

EVILLY:  In an evil manner; not well; ill. [Obs.] "Good deeds evilly bestowed." Shak.  EVIL-MINDED E"vil-mind`ed, a.  Having evil dispositions or intentions; disposed to mischief or sin; malicious; malignant; wicked.  -- E"vil-mind`ed*ness, n. 

EVILNESS:  The condition or quality of being evil; badness; viciousness; malignity; vileness; as, evilness of heart; the evilness of sin. 

EVINCEMENT:  The act of evincing or proving, or the state of being evinced. 

EVINCIBLE:  Capable of being proved or clearly brought to light; demonstrable. Sir. M. Hale. --E*vin"ci*bly, adv. 

EVINCIVE:  Tending to prove; having the power to demonstrate; demonstrative; indicative. 

EVIRATE:  To emasculate; to dispossess of manhood. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

EVIRATION:  Castration. [Obs.] 

EVISCERATE:  To take out the entrails of; to disembowel; to gut. 

EVISCERATION:  A disemboweling. 

EVITABLE:  A voidable. [R.] Hooker. 

EVITATE:  To shun; to avoid. [Obs.] Shak. 

EVITATION:  A shunning; avoidance. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EVITE:  To shun. [Obs.] Dryton. 

EVITERNAL:  Eternal; everlasting. [Obs.] -- Ev`i*ter"nal*ly, adv. Bp. Hall. 

EVITERNITY:  Eternity. [Obs.] 

EVOCATE:  To call out or forth; to summon; to evoke. [R.] Stackhouse. 

EVOCATION:  The act of calling out or forth. Sir. T. Browne. The evocation of that better spirit. M. Arnold. 

EVOCATIVE:  Calling forth; serving to evoke; developing. Evocative power over all that is eloquent and expressive in the better soul of man. W. Pater. 

EVOCATOR:  One who calls forth. [R.] 

EVOKE:  Apt to fly away. [Obs. or R.] Blount. 

EVOLATION:  A flying out or up. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

EVOLUTE:  A curve from which another curve, called the involute or evolvent, is described by the end of a thread gradually wound upon the former, or unwound from it. See Involute. It is the locus of the centers of all the circles which are osculatory to the given curve or evolvent.  Note: Any curve may be an evolute, the term being applied to it only in its relation to the involute. 

EVOLUTILITY:  The faculty possessed by all substances capable of self- nourishment of manifesting the nutritive acts by changes of form, of volume, or of structure. Syd. Soc. Lex. 

EVOLUTION:  The formation of an involute by unwrapping a thread from a curve as an evolute. Hutton.  4. (Arith. & Alg.)  The extraction of roots; -- the reverse of involution.  5. (Mil. & Naval)  A prescribed movement of a body of troops, or a vessel or fleet; any movement designed to effect a new arrangement or disposition; a maneuver. Those evolutions are best which can be executed with the greatest celerity, compatible with regularity. Campbell.  6. (Biol.) (a) A general name for the history of the steps by which any living organism has acquired the morphological and physiological characters which distinguish it; a gradual unfolding of successive phases of growth or development. (b) That theory of generation which supposes the germ to preëxist in the parent, and its parts to be developed, but not actually formed, by the procreative act; -- opposed to epigenesis.  7. (Metaph.)  That series of changes under natural law which involves continuous progress from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous in structure, and from the single and simple to the diverse and manifold in quality or function. The pocess is by some limited to organic beings; by others it is applied to the inorganic and the psychical. It is also applied to explain the existence and growth of institutions, manners, language, civilization, and every product of human activity. The agencies and laws of the process are variously explained by different philosophrs. Evolution is to me series with development. Gladstone. 

EVOLUTIONAL:  Relating to evolution. "Evolutional changes." H. Spenser. 

EVOLUTIONARY:  Relating to evolution; as, evolutionary discussions. 

EVOLUTIONISM:  The theory of, or belief in, evolution. See Evolution, 6 and 7. 

EVOLVE:  To become open, disclosed, or developed; to pass through a process of evolution. Prior. 

EVOLVEMENT:  The act of evolving, or the state of being evolved; evolution. 

EVOLVENT:  The involute of a curve. See Involute, and Evolute. 

EVOMIT:  To vomit. [Obs.] 

EVOMITION:  The act of vomiting. [Obs.] Swift. 

EVULGATE:  To publish abroad. [Obs.] 

EVULGATION:  A divulging. [Obs.] 

EVULSION:  The act of plucking out; a rooting out. 

EW:  A yew. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EWE:  The female of the sheep, and of sheeplike animals.  EWE-NECKED Ewe"-necked`, a.  Having a neck like a ewe; -- said of horses in which the arch of the neck is deficent, being somewhat hollowed out. Youwatt. 

EWER:  A kind of widemouthed pitcher or jug; esp., one used to hold water for the toilet. Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands. Shak.  EWERY; EWRY Ew"er*y, Ew"ry n. Etym: [From Ewer.]  An office or place of household service where the ewers were formerly kept. [Enq.] Parker. 

EWT:  The newt.  EX- Ex-  . A prefix from the latin preposition, ex, akin to Gr. 'ex or 'ek signifying out of, out, proceeding from. Hence, in composition, it signifies out of, as, in exhale, exclude; off, from, or out. as in exscind; beyond, as, in excess, exceed, excel; and sometimes has a privative sense of without, as in exalbuminuos, exsanguinous. In some words, it intensifies the meaning; in others, it has little affect on the signification. It becomes ef- before f, as in effuse. The form e- occurs instead of ex- before b, d, g, l, m, n, r, and v, as in ebullient, emanate, enormous, etc. In words from the French it often appears as es-, sometimes as s- or é-; as, escape, scape, élite. Ex-, prefixed to names implying office, station, condition, denotes that the person formerly held the office, or is out of the office or condition now; as, ex-president, ex-governor, ex-mayor, ex-convict. The Greek form 'ex becomes ex in English, as in exarch; 'ek becomes ec, as in eccentric. 

EXACERBATE:  To render more violent or bitter; to irriate; to exasperate; to imbitter, as passions or disease. Broughman. 

EXACERBATION:  A periodical increase of violence in a disease, as in remittent or continious fever; an increased energy of diseased and painful action. 

EXACERBESCENCE:  Increase of irritation or violence, particularly the increase of a fever or disease. 

EXACERVATION:  The act of heaping up. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EXACINATE:  To remove the kernel form. 

EXACINATION:  Removal of the kernel. 

EXACT:  To demand or require authoritatively or peremptorily, as a right; to enforce the payment of, or a yielding of; to compel to yield or to furnish; hence, to wrest, as a fee or reward when none is due; -- followed by from or of before the one subjected to exaction; as, to exact tribute, fees, obedience, etc., from or of some one. He said into them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you. Luke. iii. 13. Years of servise past From grateful souls exact reward at last Dryden. My designs Exact me in another place. Massinger. 

EXACT:  To practice exaction. [R.] The anemy shall not exact upon him. Ps. lxxxix. 22. 

EXACTER:  An exactor. [R.] 

EXACTING:  Oppressive or unreasonably severe in making demands or requiring the exact fulfillment of obligations; harsh; severe. "A temper so exacting." T. Arnold -- Ex*act"ing*ly, adv.  -- Ex*act"ing*ness, n. 

EXACTITUDE:  The quality of being exact; exactness. 

EXACTLY:  In an exact manner; precisely according to a rule, standard, or fact; accurately; strictly; correctly; nicely. "Exactly wrought." Shak. His enemies were pleased, for he had acted exactly as their interests required. Bancroft. 

EXACTOR:  One who exacts or demands by authority or right; hence, an extortioner; also, one unreasonably severe in injunctions or demands. Jer. Taylor. 

EXACTRESS:  A woman who is an exactor. [R.] B. Jonson. 

EXACUATE:  To whet or sharpen. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  -- Ex*ac`u*a"tion, n. [Obs.] 

EXAERESIS:  In old writers, the operations concerned in the removal of parts of the body. 

EXAGGERATED:  Enlarged beyond bounds or the truth.  -- Ex*ag"ger*a`ted*ly, adv. 

EXAGGERATING:  That exaggerates; enlarging beyond bounds.  -- Ex*ag"ger*a`ting*ly, adv. 

EXAGGERATION:  A representation of things beyond natural life, in expression, beauty, power, vigor. 

EXAGGERATIVE:  Tending to exaggerate; involving exaggeration. "Exaggerative language." Geddes. "Exaggerative pictures." W. J. Linton.  -- Ex*ag"ger*a*tive*ly, adv. Carlyle. 

EXAGGERATOR:  One who exaggerates; one addicted to exaggeration. L. Horner. 

EXAGGERATORY:  Containing, or tending to, exaggeration; exaggerative. Johnson. 

EXAGITATION:  Agitation. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EXALBUMINOUS:  Having no albumen about the embryo; -- said of certain seeds. 

EXALT:  To render pure or refined; to intensify or concentrate; as, to exalt the juices of bodies. With chemic art exalts the mineral powers. Pope. 

EXALTATE:  Exercising its highest influence; -- said of a planet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EXALTATION:  The refinement or subtilization of a body, or the increasing of its virtue or principal property.  3. (Astrol.)  That place of a planet in the zodiac in which it was supposed to exert its strongest influence. 

EXALTED:  Raised to lofty height; elevated; extolled; refined; dignified; sublime. Wiser far than Solomon, Of more exalted mind. Milton. Time never fails to bring every exalted reputation to a strict scrutiny. Ames. -- Ex*alt"ed*ly, adv.  -- Ex*alt"ed*ness, n. "The exaltedness of some minds." T. Gray. 

EXALTER:  One who exalts or raises to dignity. 

EXALTMENT:  Exaltation. [Obs.] Barrow. 

EXAMEN:  Examination; inquiry. [R.] "A critical examen of the two pieces." Cowper. 

EXAMETRON:  An hexameter. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EXAMINABLE:  Capable of being examined or inquired into. Bacon. 

EXAMINATE:  A person subjected to examination. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EXAMINATOR:  An examiner. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXAMINEE:  A person examined. 

EXAMINER:  One who examines, tries, or inspects; one who interrogates; an officer or person charged with the duty of making an examination; as, an examiner of students for a degree; an examiner in chancery, in the patent office, etc. 

EXAMINERSHIP:  The office or rank of an examiner. 

EXAMINING:  Having power to examine; appointed to examine; as, an examining committee. 

EXAMPLARY:  Serving for example or pattern; exemplary. [Obs.] Hooker. 

EXAMPLE:  To set an example for; to give a precedent for; to exemplify; to give an instance of; to instance. [Obs.] "I may example my digression by some mighty precedent." Shak. Burke devoted himself to this duty with a fervid assiduity that has not often been exampled, and has never been surpassed. J. Morley. 

EXAMPLELESS:  Without or above example. [R.] 

EXAMPLER:  A pattern; an exemplar. [Obs.] 

EXAMPLESS:  Exampleless. [Wrongly formed.] B. Jonson. 

EXANGUIOUS:  Bloodless. [Obs.] See Exsanguious. Sir T. Browne. 

EXANGULOUS:  Having no corners; without angles. [R.] 

EXANIMATE:  To deprive of animation or of life. [Obs.] 

EXANIMATION:  Deprivation of life or of spirits. [R.] Bailey. 

EXANIMOUS:  Lifeless; dead. [Obs.] Johnson. 

EXANNULATE:  Having the sporangium destitute of a ring; -- said of certain genera of ferns. 

EXANTHEM:  Same as Exanthema. 

EXANTHEMA:  An efflorescence or discoloration of the skin; an eruption or breaking out, as in measles, smallpox, scarlatina, and the like diseases; -- sometimes limited to eruptions attended with fever. Dunglison.  EXANTHEMATIC; EXANTHEMATOUS Ex*an`the*mat"ic, Ex`an*them"a*tous, a.  Of, relating to, or characterized by, exanthema; efflorescent; as, an exanthematous eruption. 

EXANTHESIS:  An eruption of the skin; cutaneous efflorescence. 

EXANTLATE:  To exhaust or wear out. [Obs.] "Seeds . . . wearied or exantlated." Boyle. 

EXANTLATION:  Act of drawing out ; exhaustion. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXARATE:  To plow up; also, to engrave; to write. [Obs.] Blount. 

EXARATION:  Act of plowing; also, act of writing. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EXARCH:  A viceroy; in Ravenna, the title of the viceroys of the Byzantine emperors; in the Eastern Church, the superior over several monasteries; in the modern Greek Church, a deputy of the patriarch , who visits the clergy, investigates ecclesiastical cases, etc. 

EXARCHATE:  The office or the province of an exarch. Jer. Taylor. 

EXARILLATE:  Having no aril; -- said of certain seeds, or of the plants producing them. 

EXARTICULATE:  Having but one joint; -- said of certain insects. 

EXARTICULATION:  Luxation; the dislocation of a joint. Bailey. 

EXASPERATE:  Exasperated; imbittered. [Obs.] Shak. Like swallows which the exasperate dying year Sets spinning. Mrs. Browning. 

EXASPERATER:  One who exasperates or inflames anger, enmity, or violence. 

EXASPIDEAN:  Having the anterior scute 

EXAUCTORATE:  See Exauthorate. [Obs.] 

EXAUCTORATION:  See Exauthoration. 

EXAUGURATE:  To annul the consecration of; to secularize; to unhellow. [Obs.] Holland. 

EXAUGURATION:  The act of exaugurating; desecration. [Obs.] 

EXAUTHORATE:  To deprive of authority or office; to depose; to discharge. [Obs.] Exauthorated for their unworthiness. Jer. Taylor. 

EXAUTHORATION:  Deprivation of authority or dignity; degration. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

EXAUTHORIZE:  To deprive of uthority. [Obs.] Selden. 

EXAUTHORIZE:  To deprive of authority. [Obs.] Selden. 

EXCALCEATE:  To deprive of shoes. [Obs.] Chambers. 

EXCALCEATION:  The act of depriving or divesting of shoes. [Obs.] Chambers. 

EXCALFACTION:  A heating or warming; calefaction. [Obs.] Blount. 

EXCALFACTIVE:  Serving to heat; warming. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

EXCALFACTORY:  Heating; warming. [Obs.] Holland. 

EXCALIBUR:  The name of King Arthur's mythical sword. [Written also Excalibar, Excalibor, Escalibar, and Caliburn.] Tennyson.  EXCAMB; EXCAMBIE Ex*camb", Ex*cam"bie, v. t. Etym: [LL. excambiare, excambire; L. ex out + cambire. See Change, and cf. Exchange.] (Scots Law)  To exchange; -- used with reference to transfers of land.  EXCAMBION; EXCAMBIUM Ex*cam"bi*on, Ex*cam"bi*um, n. Etym: [LL. excambium. See Excamb.] (Scots Law)  Exchange; barter; -- used commonly of lands. 

EXCANDESCENT:  White or glowing with heat. [R.] Ure. 

EXCANTATION:  Disenchantment by a countercharm. [Obs.] Gayton. 

EXCARNATE:  To deprive or clear of flesh. Grew. 

EXCARNATION:  The act of depriving or divesting of flesh; excarnification; -- opposed to incarnation. 

EXCARNIFICATE:  To clear of flesh; to excarnate. Dr. H. More. 

EXCARNIFICATION:  The act of excarnificating or of depriving of flesh; excarnation. Johnson. 

EXCAVATE:  To dig out and remove, as earth. The material excavated was usually sand. E. L. Corthell. Excavating pump, a kind of dredging apparatus for excavating under water, in which silt and loose material mixed with water are drawn up by a pump. Knight. 

EXCAVATOR:  One who, or that which, excavates or hollows out; a machine, as a dredging machine, or a tool, for excavating. 

EXCAVE:  To excavate. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EXCECATE:  To blind. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EXCECATION:  The act of making blind. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson. 

EXCEDENT:  Excess. [R.] 

EXCEED:  To go beyond; to proceed beyond the given or supposed limit or measure of; to outgo; to surpass; -- used both in a good and a bad sense; as, one man exceeds another in bulk, stature, weight, power, skill, etc. ; one offender exceeds another in villainy; his rank exceeds yours. Name the time, but let it not Exceed three days. Shak. Observes how much a chintz exceeds mohair. Pope.  Syn.  -- To outdo; surpass; excel; transcend; outstrip; outvie; overtop. 

EXCEEDABLE:  Capable of exceeding or surpassing. [Obs.] Sherwood. 

EXCEEDER:  One who exceeds. Bp. Montagu. 

EXCEEDING:  More than usual; extraordinary; more than sufficient; measureless. "The exceeding riches of his grace." Eph. ii. 7.  -- Ex*ceed"ing*ness, n. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

EXCEEDING:  In a very great degree; extremely; exceedingly. [Archaic. It is not joined to verbs.] "The voice exceeding loud." Keble. His raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow. Mark ix. 3. The Genoese were exceeding powerful by sea. Sir W. Raleigh. 

EXCEEDINGLY:  To a very great degree; beyond what is usual; surpassingly. It signifies more than very. 

EXCEL:  To surpass others in good qualities, laudable actions, or acquirements; to be distinguished by superiority; as, to excel in mathematics, or classics. Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel. Gen. xlix. 4. Then peers grew proud in horsemanship t' excel. Pope. 

EXCELLENT:  Excellently; eminently; exceedingly. [Obs.] "This comes off well and excellent." Shak. 

EXCELSIOR:  More lofty; still higher; ever upward. 

EXCELSIOR:  A kind of stuffing for upholstered furniture, mattresses, etc., in which curled shreds of wood are substituted for curled hair. 

EXCENTRAL:  Out of the center.  EXCENTRIC; EXCENTRICAL Ex*cen"tric, Ex*cen"tric*al, a.  1. Same as Eccentric, Eccentrical.  2. (Bot.)  One-sided; having the normally central portion not in the true center. Gray. 

EXCENTRICITY:  . (Math.) Same as Eccentricity. 

EXCEPT:  To take exception; to object; -- usually followed by to, sometimes by against; as, to except to a witness or his testimony. Except thou wilt except against my love. Shak. 

EXCEPT:  With exclusion of; leaving or left out; excepting. God and his Son except, Created thing naught valued he nor . . . shunned. Milton.  Syn.  -- Except, Excepting, But, Save, Besides. Excepting, except, but, and save are exclusive. Except marks exclusion more pointedly. "I have finished all the letters except one," is more marked than "I have finished all the letters but one." Excepting is the same as except, but less used. Save is chiefly found in poetry. Besides (lit., by the side of) is in the nature of addition. "There is no one here except or but him," means, take him away and there is nobody present. "There is nobody here besides him," means, hi is present and by the side of, or in addition to, him is nobody. "Few ladies, except her Majesty, could have made themselves heard." In this example, besides should be used, not except. 

EXCEPT:  Unless; if it be not so that. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. Gen. xxxii. 26. But yesterday you never opened lip, Except, indeed, to drink. Tennyson.  Note: As a conjunction unless has mostly taken the place of except. 

EXCEPTANT:  Making exception. 

EXCEPTING:  , but properly a participle. With rejection or exception of; excluding; except. "Excepting your worship's presence." Shak. No one was ever yet made utterly miserable, excepting by himself. Lubbock. 

EXCEPTION:  An objection, oral or written, taken, in the course of an action, as to bail or security; or as to the decision of a judge, in the course of a trail, or in his charge to a jury; or as to lapse of time, or scandal, impertinence, or insufficiency in a pleading; also, as in conveyancing, a clause by which the grantor excepts something before granted. Burrill.  4. An objection; cavil; dissent; disapprobation; offense; cause of offense; -- usually followed by to or against. I will never answer what exceptions they can have against our account [relation]. Bentley. He . . . took exception to the place of their burial. Bacon. She takes exceptions at your person. Shak. Bill of exceptions (Law), a statement of exceptions to the decision, or instructions of a judge in the trial of a cause, made for the purpose of putting the points decided on record so as to bring them before a superior court or the full bench for review. 

EXCEPTIONABLE:  Liable to exception or objection; objectionable.  -- Ex*cep"tion*a*ble*ness, n. This passage I look upon to be the most exceptionable in the whole poem. Addison. 

EXCEPTIONAL:  Forming an exception; not ordinary; uncommon; rare; hence, better than the average; superior. Lyell. This particular spot had exceptional advantages. Jowett (Th. ) -- Ex*cep"tion*al*ly(#), adv. 

EXCEPTIONER:  One who takes exceptions or makes objections. [Obs.] Milton. 

EXCEPTIONLESS:  Without exception. A universal, . . . exceptionless disqualification. Bancroft. 

EXCEPTIOUS:  Disposed or apt to take exceptions, or to object; captious. [Obs.] At least effectually silence the doubtful and exceptious. South. -- Ex*cep"tious*ness, n. [Obs.] Barrow. 

EXCEPTIVE:  That excepts; including an exception; as, an exceptive proposition. I. Watts. A particular and exceptive law. Milton. 

EXCEPTLESS:  Not exceptional; usual. [Obs.] My general and exceptless rashness. Shak. 

EXCEPTOR:  One who takes exceptions. T. Burnet. 

EXCEREBRATION:  The act of removing or beating out the brains. 

EXCEREBROSE:  Brainless. [R.] 

EXCERN:  To excrete; to throw off through the pores; as, fluids are excerned in perspiration. [R.] Bacon. 

EXCERNENT:  Connected with, or pertaining to, excretion. 

EXCERP:  To pick out. [Obs.] Hales. 

EXCERPT:  To select; to extract; to cite; to quote. Out of which we have excerpted the following particulars. Fuller. 

EXCERPT:  An extract; a passage selected or copied from a book or record. 

EXCERPTIVE:  That excerpts, selects, or chooses. D. L. Mackenzie. 

EXCERPTOR:  One who makes excerpts; a picker; a culler. 

EXCESSIVE:  Characterized by, or exhibiting, excess; overmuch. Excessive grief [is] the enemy to the living. Shak.  Syn.  -- Undue; exorbitant; extreme; overmuch; enormous; immoderate; monstrous; intemperate; unreasonable. See Enormous --Ex*cess*ive*ly, adv. -Ex*cess"ive*ness, n. 

EXCHANGE:  The process of setting accounts or debts between parties residing at a distance from each other, without the intervention of money, by exchanging orders or drafts, called bills of exchange. These may be drawn in one country and payable in another, in which case they are called foreign bills; or they may be drawn and made payable in the same country, in which case they are called inland bills. The term bill of exchange is often abbreviated into exchange; as, to buy or sell exchange.  Note: A in London is creditor to B in New York, and C in London owes D in New York a like sum. A in London draws a bill of exchange on B in New York; C in London purchases the bill, by which A receives his debt due from B in New York. C transmits the bill to D in New York, who receives the amount from B.  5. (Law)  A mutual grant of equal interests, the one in consideration of the other. Estates exchanged must be equal in quantity, as fee simple for fee simple. Blackstone.  6. The place where the merchants, brokers, and bankers of a city meet at certain hours, to transact business. In this sense often contracted to 'Change. Arbitration of exchange. See under Arbitration.  -- Bill of exchange. See under Bill.  -- Exchange broker. See under Broker.  -- Par of exchange, the established value of the coin or standard of value of one country when expressed in the coin or standard of another, as the value of the pound sterling in the currency of France or the United States. The par of exchange rarely varies, and serves as a measure for the rise and fall of exchange that is affected by the demand and supply. Exchange is at par when, for example, a bill in New York, for the payment of one hundred pounds sterling in London, can be purchased for the sum. Exchange is in favor of a place when it can be purchased there at or above par.  -- Telephone exchange, a central office in which the wires of any two telephones or telephone stations may be connected to permit conversation.  Syn.  -- Barter; dealing; trade; traffic; interchange. 

EXCHANGE:  To be changed or received in exchange for; to pass in exchange; as, dollar exchanges for ten dimes. 

EXCHANGEABILITY:  The quality or state of being exchangeable. The law ought not be contravened by an express article admitting the exchangeability of such persons. Washington. 

EXCHANGEABLY:  By way of exchange.  EXCHANGE EDITOR Ex*change" ed"i*tor.  An editor who inspects, and culls from, periodicals, or exchanges, for his own publication. 

EXCHANGER:  One who exchanges; one who practices exchange. Matt. 

EXCHEAT:  See Escheat. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EXCHEATOR:  See Escheator. [Obs.] 

EXCHEQUER:  To institute a process against (any one) in the Court of Exchequer. 

EXCIDE:  To cut off. [R.] 

EXCIPIENT:  Taking an exception. 

EXCIPIENT:  An inert or slightly active substance used in preparing remedies as a vehicle or medium of administration for the medicinal agents. Chambers.  EXCIPLE; EXCIPULUM Ex"ci*ple, Ex*cip"u*lum, n. Etym: [NL. excipulum, fr. L. excipere. See Except.] (Bot.)  The outer part of the fructification of most lichens. 

EXCISABLE:  Liable or subject to excise; as, tobacco in an excisable commodity. 

EXCISE:  To cut out or off; to separate and remove; as, to excise a tumor. 

EXCISEMAN:  An officer who inspects and rates articles liable to excise duty. Macaulay. 

EXCISION:  The act of cutting off from the church; excommunication.  3. (Surg.)  The removal, especially of small parts, with a cutting instrument. Dunglison. 

EXCITABILITY:  The property manifested by living organisms, and the elements and tissues of which they are constituted, of responding to the action of stimulants; irritability; as, nervous excitability. 

EXCITABLE:  Capable of being excited, or roused into action; susceptible of excitement; easily stirred up, or stimulated. 

EXCITANT:  Tending to excite; exciting. 

EXCITANT:  An agent or influence which arouses vital activity, or produces increased action, in a living organism or in any of its tissues or parts; a stimulant. 

EXCITATE:  To excite. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EXCITATION:  The act of producing excitement (stimulation); also, the excitement produced. 

EXCITATIVE:  Having power to excite; tending or serving to excite; excitatory. Barrow. 

EXCITATOR:  A kind of discarder. 

EXCITATORY:  Tending to excite; containing excitement; excitative. 

EXCITE:  To call forth or increase the vital activity of an organism, or any of its parts.  Syn.  -- To incite; awaken; animate; rouse or arouse; stimulate; inflame; irritate; provoke.  -- To Excite, Incite. When we excite we rouse into action feelings which were less strong; when we incite we spur on or urge forward to a specific act or end. Demosthenes excited the passions of the Athenians against Philip, and thus incited the whole nation to unite in the war against him. Antony, by his speech over the body of Cæsar, so excited the feelings of the populace, that Brutus and his companions were compelled to flee from Rome; many however, were incited to join their standard, not only by love of liberty, but hopes of plunder. 

EXCITEFUL:  Full of exciting qualities; as, an exciteful story; exciteful players. Chapman. 

EXCITEMENT:  A state of aroused or increased vital activity in an organism, or any of its organs or tissues. 

EXCITER:  One who, or that which, excites. Hope is the grand exciter of industry. Dr. H. More. 

EXCITING:  Calling or rousing into action; producing excitement; as, exciting events; an exciting story.  -- Ex*cit"ing*ly, adv. Exciting causes (Med.), those which immediately produce disease, or those which excite the action of predisposing causes. 

EXCITIVE:  Serving or tending to excite; excitative. [R.] Bamfield. 

EXCITIVE:  That which excites; an excitant. [R.]  EXCITO-MOTION Ex*ci`to-mo"tion, n. (Physiol.)  Motion excited by reflex nerves. See Excito-motory.  EXCITO-MOTOR Ex*ci`to-mo"tor, a. (Physiol.)  Excitomotory; as, excito-motor power or causes.  EXCITO-MOTORY Ex*ci`to-mo"to*ry, a. (Physiol.)  Exciting motion; -- said of that portion of the nervous system concerned in reflex action, by which impressions are transmitted to a nerve center and then reflected back so as to produce muscular contraction without sensation or volition.  EXCITO-NUTRIENT Ex*ci`to-nu"tri*ent, a (Physiol.)  Exciting nutrition; said of the reflex influence by which the nutritional processes are either excited or modified.  EXCITO-SECRETORY Ex*ci`to-se*cre"to*ry, a. (Physiol.)  Exciting secretion; -- said of the influence exerted by reflex action on the function of secretion, by which the various glands are excited to action. 

EXCLAIM:  To cry out from earnestness or passion; to utter with vehemence; to call out or declare loudly; to protest vehemently; to vociferate; to shout; as, to exclaim against oppression with wonder or astonishment; "The field is won!" he exclaimed. 

EXCLAIM:  Outcry; clamor. [Archaic] Cursing cries and deep exclaims. Shak. 

EXCLAIMER:  One who exclaims. 

EXCLAMATION:  A word expressing outcry; an interjection; a word expressing passion, as wonder, fear, or grief.  3. (Print.)  A mark or sign by which outcry or emphatic utterance is marked; thus [!]; -- called also exclamation point. 

EXCLAMATIVE:  Exclamatory. Earle.  -- Ex*clam"a*tive*ly, adv. 

EXCLAMATORY:  Containing, expressing, or using exclamation; as, an exclamatory phrase or speaker. South.  -- Ex*clam"a*to*ti*ly, adv. 

EXCLAVE:  A portion of a country which is separated from the main part and surrounded by politically alien territory. [Recent.]  Note: The same territory is an enclave in respect to the surrounding country and an exclave with respect to the country to which it is politically attached. 

EXCLUSION:  The act of expelling or ejecting a fetus or an egg from the womb.  3. Thing emitted. Sir T. Browne. 

EXCLUSIONARY:  Tending to exclude; causing exclusion; exclusive. 

EXCLUSIONISM:  The character, manner, or principles of an exclusionist. 

EXCLUSIONIST:  One who would exclude another from some right or privilege; esp., one of the anti-popish politicians of the time of Charles 

EXCLUSIVE:  One of a coterie who exclude others; one who from real of affected fastidiousness limits his acquaintance to a select few. 

EXCLUSIVENESS:  Quality of being exclusive. 

EXCLUSIVISM:  The act or practice of excluding being exclusive; exclusiveness. 

EXCLUSIVIST:  One who favor or practices any from of exclusiveness or exclusivism. The field of Greek mythology . . . the favorite sporting ground of the exclusivists of the solar theory. Gladstone. 

EXCLUSORY:  Able to exclude; excluding; serving to exclude. 

EXCOCT:  To boil out; to produce by boiling. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EXCOCTION:  The act of excocting or boiling out. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EXCOGITATE:  To think out; to find out or discover by thinking; to devise; to contrive. "Excogitate strange arts." Stirling. This evidence . . . thus excogitated out of the general theory. Whewell. 

EXCOGITATE:  To cogitate. [R.] Bacon. 

EXCOGITATION:  The act of excogitating; a devising in the thoughts; invention; contrivance. 

EXCOMMUNE:  To exclude from participation in; to excommunicate. [Obs.] Poets . . . were excommuned Plato's common wealth Gayton. 

EXCOMMUNICABLE:  Liable or deserving to be excommunicated; making excommunication possible or proper. "Persons excommunicable ." Bp. Hall. What offenses are excommunicable Kenle. 

EXCOMMUNICANT:  One who has been excommunicated. 

EXCOMMUNICATE:  Excommunicated; interdicted from the rites of the church.  -- n.  One excommunicated. Thou shalt stand cursed and excommunicate. Shak. 

EXCOMMUNICATION:  The act of communicating or ejecting; esp., an ecclesiastical censure whereby the person against whom it is pronounced is, for the time, cast out of the communication of the church; exclusion from fellowship in things spiritual.  Note: excommunication is of two kinds, the lesser and the greater; the lesser excommunication is a separation or suspension from partaking of the Eucharist; the greater is an absolute execution of the offender from the church and all its rights and advantages, even from social intercourse with the faithful. 

EXCOMMUNICATOR:  One who excommunicates. 

EXCOMMUNION:  . A shutting out from communion; excommunication. [Obs.] Excommunication is the utmost of ecclesiastical judicature. Milton. 

EXCORIABLE:  . Capable of being excoriated. The scaly covering of fishes, . . . even in such as are excoriatable. Sir T. Browne. 

EXCORIATE:  To strip or wear off the skin of; to abrade; to gall; to break and remove the cuticle of, in any manner, as by rubbing, beating, or by the action of acrid substances. 

EXCORTICATE:  To strip of bark or skin; to decorticate. [Obs.] "Excorticate the tree." Evelyn. 

EXCORTICATION:  The act of stripping off bark, or the state of being thus stripped; decortication. 

EXCREABLE:  Capable of being discharged by spitting. [Obs.] Swift. 

EXCREATE:  To spit out; to discharge from the throat by hawking and spitting. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EXCREATION:  Act of spitting out. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EXCREMENT:  Matter excreted and ejected; that which is excreted or cast out of the animal body by any of the natural emunctories; especially, alvine, discharges; dung; ordure. 

EXCREMENT:  An excrescence or appendage; an outgrowth. [Obs.] "Ornamental excrements." Fuller. Living creatures put forth (after their period of growth) nothing that is young but hair and nails, which are excrements and no parts. Bacon. 

EXCREMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to excrement.  EXCREMENTITIAL; EXCREMENTITIOUS Ex`cre*men*ti"tial, Ex`cre*men*ti"tious, a. (Physiol.)  Pertaining to, or consisting of, excrement; of the nature of excrement. 

EXCREMENTIVE:  Serving to excrete; connected with excretion or excrement. [R.] "The excrementive parts." Felthman. 

EXCREMENTIZE:  To void excrement. [R.] Life of A. Wood 

EXCRESCENCE:  An excrescent appendage, as, a wart or tumor; anything growing out unnaturally from anything else; a preternatural or morbid development; hence, a troublesome superfluity; an incumbrance; as, an excrescence on the body, or on a plant. "Excrescences of joy." Jer. Taylor. The excrescences of the Spanish monarchy. Addison. 

EXCRESCENCY:  Excrescence. [Obs.] 

EXCRESCENT:  Growing out in an abnormal or morbid manner or as a superfluity. Expunge the whole, or lip the excrescent parts. Pope. Excrescent letter (Philol.), a letter which has been added to a root; as, the d in alder (AS. alr) is an excrescent letter. 

EXCRESCENTIAL:  Pertaining to, or resembling, an excrescence. [R.] Hawthorne. 

EXCRETA:  Matters to be excreted. 

EXCRETE:  To separate and throw off; to excrete urine. "The mucus thus excreted." Hooper. 

EXCRETIN:  A nonnitrogenous, crystalline body, present in small quantity in human fæces. 

EXCRETIVE:  Having the power of excreting, or promoting excretion. Harvey. 

EXCRETORY:  Having the quality of excreting, or throwing off excrementitious matter. 

EXCRUCIABLE:  Liable to torment. [R.] Bailey. 

EXCRUCIATE:  Excruciated; tortured. And here my heart long time excruciate. Chapman. 

EXCRUCIATE:  To inflict agonizing pain upon; to torture; to torment greatly; to rack; as, to excruciate the heart or the body. Their thoughts, like devils, them excruciate. Drayton. 

EXCRUCIATING:  . Torturing; racking. "Excruciating pain." V. Knox. "Excruciating fears." Bentley -- Ex*cru"ci*a`ting*ly, adv. 

EXCRUCIATION:  The act of inflicting agonizing pain, or the state of being thus afflicted; that which excruciates; torture. Feltham. 

EXCUBATION:  A keeping watch. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EXCUBITORIUM:  A gallery in a church, where persons watched all night. 

EXCULPABLE:  . Capable of being exculpated; deserving exculpation. Sir G. Buck. 

EXCULPATE:  To clear from alleged fault or guilt; to prove to be guiltless; to relieve of blame; to acquit. He exculpated himself from being the author of the heroic epistle. Mason. I exculpate him further for his writing against me. Milman.  Syn.  -- To exonerate; absolve; clear; acquit; excuse; vindicate; justify. 

EXCULPATION:  The act of exculpating from alleged fault or crime; that which exculpates; excuse. These robbers, however, were men who might have made out a strong case in exculpation of themselves. Southey. 

EXCULPATORY:  . Clearing, or tending to clear, from alleged fault or guilt; excusing. "An exculpatory letter." Johnson. 

EXCUR:  To run out or forth; to extend. [Obs.] Harvey. 

EXCURRENT:  Running or extending out; as, an excurrent midrib, one which projects beyond the apex of a leaf; an excurrent steam or trunk, one which continues to the top.  2. (Zoöl)  Characterized by a current which flows outward; as, an excurrent orifice or tube. 

EXCURSE:  To journey or pass thought. [R.] 

EXCURSION:  Length of stroke, as of a piston; stroke. [An awkward use of the word.]  Syn.  -- Journey; tour; ramble; jaunt. See Journey. 

EXCURSIONIST:  One who goes on an excursion, or pleasure trip. 

EXCURSIVE:  Prone to make excursions; wandering; roving; exploring; as, an excursive fancy. The course of excursive . . . understandings. I. Taylor. -- Ex*cur"sive*ly, adv.  -- Ex*cur"sive*ness, , n. 

EXCURSUS:  A dissertation or digression appended to a work, and containing a more extended exposition of some important point or topic. 

EXCUSABLE:  That may be excused, forgiven, justified, or acquitted of blame; pardonable; as, the man is excusable; an excusable action.  -- Ex*cus"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Ex*cus"a*bly, adv. The excusableness of my dissatisfaction. Boyle. 

EXCUSATION:  Excuse; apology. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EXCUSATOR:  One who makes, or is authorized to make, an excuse; an apologist. [Obs.] Hume. 

EXCUSATORY:  Making or containing excuse or apology; apologetical; as, an excusatory plea. 

EXCUSELESS:  Having no excuse; not admitting of excuse or apology. Whillock. 

EXCUSEMENT:  Excuse. [Obs.] Gower. 

EXCUSSION:  The act of excusing; seizure by law. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

EXECRABLE:  Deserving to be execrated; accursed; damnable; detestable; abominable; as, an execrable wretch. "Execrable pride." Hooker.  -- Ex"e*cra*ble*ness, n.  -- Ex"e*cra*bly, adv. 

EXECRATE:  To denounce evil against, or to imprecate evil upon; to curse; to protest against as unholy or detestable; hence, to detest utterly; to abhor; to abominate. "They . . . execrate their lct." Cowper. 

EXECRATIVE:  Cursing; imprecatory; vilifying. Carlyle.  -- Ex"e*cra*tive*ly, adv. 

EXECRATIVE:  A word used for cursing; an imprecatory word or expression. Earle. 

EXECRATORY:  Of the nature of execration; imprecatory; denunciatory. C. Kingsley.  -- n.  A formulary of execrations. L. Addison. 

EXECT:  To cut off or out. [Obs.] See Exsect. Harvey. 

EXECTION:  See Exsection. 

EXECUTABLE:  Capable of being executed; feasible; as, an executable project. [R.] 

EXECUTANT:  One who executes or performs; esp., a performer on a musical instrument. Great executants on the organ. De Quincey. 

EXECUTE:  To perform, as a piece of music, either on an instrument or with the voice; as, to execute a difficult part brilliantly.  Syn.  -- To accomplish; effect; fulfill; achieve; consummate; finish; complete. See Accomplish. 

EXECUTER:  One who performs or carries into effect. See Executor. 

EXECUTIVE:  Designed or fitted for execution, or carrying into effect; as, executive talent; qualifying for, concerned with, or pertaining to, the execution of the laws or the conduct of affairs; as, executive power or authority; executive duties, officer, department, etc.  Note: In government, executive is distinguished from legislative and judicial; legislative being applied to the organ or organs of government which make the laws; judicial, to that which interprets and applies the laws; executive, to that which carries them into effect or secures their due performance. 

EXECUTIVE:  An impersonal title of the chief magistrate or officer who administers the government, whether king, president, or governor; the governing person or body. 

EXECUTIVELY:  In the way of executing or performing. 

EXECUTOR:  The person appointed by a Executor de son tort Etym: [Of., executor of his own wrong] (Law), a stranger who intermeddles without authority in the distribution of the estate of a deceased person. 

EXECUTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to an executive. 

EXECUTORSHIP:  The office of an executor. 

EXECUTORY:  Designed to be executed or carried into effect in time to come, or to take effect on a future contingency; as, an executory devise, reminder, or estate; an executory contract. Blackstone. 

EXECUTRESS:  An executrix. 

EXECUTRIX:  A woman exercising the functions of an executor. 

EXEDENT:  Eating out; consuming. [R.] 

EXEDRA:  A room in a public building, furnished with seats.  2. (Arch.) (a) The projection of any part of a building in a rounded form. (b) Any out-of-door seat in stone, large enough for several persons; esp., one of curved form. 

EXEGESIS:  The process of finding the roots of an equation. [Obs.] 

EXEGETE:  An exegetist.  EXEGETIC; EXEGETICAL Ex`e*get"ic, Ex`e*get"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. exégétique.]  Pertaining to exegesis; tending to unfold or illustrate; explanatory; expository. Walker. Ex`e*get"ic*al*ly, adv. 

EXEGETICS:  The science of interpretation or exegesis. 

EXEGETIST:  One versed in the science of exegesis or interpretation; -- also called exegete. 

EXEMPLAR:  Exemplary. [Obs.] The exemplar piety of the father of a family. Jer. Taylor. 

EXEMPLARILY:  In a manner fitted or designed to be an example for imitation or for warning; by way of example. She is exemplarily loyal. Howell. Some he punisheth exemplarily. Hakewill. 

EXEMPLARINESS:  The state or quality of being exemplary; fitness to be an example. 

EXEMPLARITY:  Exemplariness. [R.] The exemplarity of Christ's life. Abp. Sharp. 

EXEMPLARY:  An exemplar; also, a copy of a book or writing. [Obs.] Donne. 

EXEMPLIFIABLE:  That can be exemplified. 

EXEMPLIFICATION:  A copy or transcript attested to be correct by the seal of an officer having custody of the original. 

EXEMPLIFIER:  One who exemplifies by following a pattern. 

EXEMPTIBLE:  That may be exempted. 

EXEMPTION:  The act of exempting; the state of being exempt; freedom from any charge, burden, evil, etc., to which others are subject; immunity; privilege; as, exemption of certain articles from seizure; exemption from military service; exemption from anxiety, suffering, etc. 

EXEMPTITIOUS:  Separable. [Obs.] "Exemptitious from matter." Dr. H. More. 

EXENTERATE:  To take out the bowels or entrails of; to disembowel; to eviscerate; as, exenterated fishes. [R.] Exenterated rule-mongers and eviscerated logicians. Hare. 

EXENTERATION:  Act of exenterating. [R.] 

EXEQUIAL:  Of or pertaining to funerals; funereal. 

EXEQUIOUS:  Funereal. [Obs.] Drayton. 

EXEQUY:  A funeral rite (usually in the plural); the ceremonies of burial; obsequies; funeral procession. But see his exequies fulfilled in Rouen. Shak. 

EXERCENT:  Practicing; professional. [Obs.] "Every exercent advocate." Ayliffe. 

EXERCISABLE:  That may be exercised, used, or exerted. 

EXERCISE:  To exercise one's self, as under military training; to drill; to take exercise; to use action or exertion; to practice gymnastics; as, to exercise for health or amusement. I wear my trusty sword, When I do exercise. Cowper. 

EXERCISER:  One who exercises. 

EXERCISIBLE:  Capable of being exercised, employed, or enforced; as, the authority of a magistrate is exercisible within his jurisdiction. 

EXERCITATION:  exercise; practice; use. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXERGUE:  The small space beneath the base line of a subject engraved on a coin or medal. It usually contains the date, place, engraver's name, etc., or other subsidiary matter. Fairholt. 

EXERTION:  The act of exerting, or putting into motion or action; the active exercise of any power or faculty; an effort, esp. a laborious or perceptible effort; as, an exertion of strength or power; an exertion of the limbs or of the mind; it is an exertion for him to move, to-day.  Syn.  -- Attempt; endeavor; effort; essay; trial. See Attempt. 

EXERTIVE:  Having power or a tendency to exert; using exertion. 

EXERTMENT:  Exertion. [R.] 

EXESION:  The act of eating out or through. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXESTUATE:  To be agitated; to boil up; to effervesce. [Obs.] 

EXESTUATION:  A boiling up; effervescence. [Obs.] Boyle. 

EXEUNT:  They go out, or retire from the scene; as, exeunt all except Hamlet. See 1st Exit. 

EXFETATION:  Imperfect fetation in some organ exterior to the uterus; extra- uterine fetation. Hoblyn. 

EXFOLIATE:  To split into scales, especially to become converted into scales at the result of heat or decomposition. 

EXFOLIATE:  To remove scales, laminæ, or splinters from the surface of. 

EXFOLIATION:  The scaling off of a bone, a rock, or a mineral, etc.; the state of being exfoliated. 

EXFOLIATIVE:  Having the power of causing exfoliation.  -- n.  An exfoliative agent. Wiseman. 

EXHALABLE:  Capable of being exhaled or evaporated. Boyle. 

EXHALANT:  Having the quality of exhaling or evaporating. 

EXHALE:  To rise or be given off, as vapor; to pass off, or vanish. Their inspiration exhaled in elegies. Prescott. 

EXHALEMENT:  Exhalation. [Obs.] 

EXHALENCE:  Exhalation. [R.] 

EXHAUST:  To subject to the action of various solvents in order to remove all soluble substances or extractives; as, to exhaust a drug successively with water, alcohol, and ether. Exhausted receiver. (Physics) See under Receiver.  Syn.  -- To spend; consume; tire out; weary. 

EXHAUSTER:  One who, or that which, exhausts or draws out. 

EXHAUSTIBILITY:  Capability of being exhausted. I was seriously tormented by the thought of the exhaustibility of musical combinations. J. S. Mill. 

EXHAUSTIBLE:  Capable of being exhausted, drained off, or expended. Johnson. 

EXHAUSTING:  Producing exhaustion; as, exhausting labors.  -- Ex*haust"ing, adv. 

EXHAUSTION:  An ancient geometrical method in which an exhaustive process was employed. It was nearly equivalent to the modern method of limits.  Note: The method of exhaustions was applied to great variety of propositions, pertaining to rectifications and quadratures, now investigated by the calculus. 

EXHAUSTIVE:  Serving or tending to exhaust; exhibiting all the facts or arguments; as, an exhaustive method. Ex*haust"ive*ly, adv. 

EXHAUSTLESS:  Not be exhausted; inexhaustible; as, an exhaustless fund or store. 

EXHAUSTMENT:  Exhaustion; drain. [Obs.] 

EXHAUSTURE:  Exhaustion. Wraxall. 

EXHEDRA:  See Exedra. 

EXHEREDATE:  To disinherit. [R.] Huloet. 

EXHEREDATION:  A disinheriting; disherisor. [R.] 

EXHEREDITATION:  A disinheriting; disherison. [R.] E. Waterhouse. 

EXHIBIT:  To submit, as a document, to a court or officer, in course of proceedings; also, to present or offer officially or in legal form; to bring, as a charge. He suffered his attorney-general to exhibit a charge of high treason against the earl. Clarendon.  3. (Med.)  To administer as a remedy; as, to exhibit calomel. To exhibit a foundation or prize, to hold it forth or to tender it as a bounty to candidates.  -- To exibit an essay, to declaim or otherwise present it in public. [Obs.] 

EXHIBIT:  A document produced and identified in court for future use as evidence. 

EXHIBITER:  One who exhibits; one who presents a petition, charge or bill. Shak. 

EXHIBITION:  The act of administering a remedy. 

EXHIBITIONER:  One who has a pension or allowance granted for support. A youth who had as an exhibitioner from Christ's Hospital. G. Eliot. 

EXHIBITIVE:  Serving for exhibition; representative; exhibitory. Norris.  -- Ex*hib"it*ive*ly, adv. 

EXHIBITOR:  One who exhibits. 

EXHIBITORY:  Exhibiting; publicly showing. J. Warton. 

EXHILARANT:  Exciting joy, mirth, or pleasure.  -- n.  That which exhilarates. 

EXHILARATE:  To make merry or jolly; to enliven; to animate; to gladden greatly; to cheer; as, good news exhilarates the mind; wine exhilarates a man. 

EXHILARATE:  To become joyous. [R.] Bacon. 

EXHILARATING:  That exhilarates; cheering; gladdening.  -- Ex*hil"a*ra`ting*ly, adv. 

EXHORT:  To incite by words or advice; to animate or urge by arguments, as to a good deed or laudable conduct; to address exhortation to; to urge strongly; hence, to advise, warn, or caution. Examples gross as earth exhort me. Shak. Let me exhort you to take care of yourself. J. D. Forbes. 

EXHORT:  To deliver exhortation; to use words or arguments to incite to good deeds. With many other words did he testify and exhort. Acts ii. 40. 

EXHORT:  Exhortation. [Obs.] Pope. 

EXHORTATIVE:  Serving to exhort; exhortatory; hortative. Barrow. 

EXHORTATORY:  Of or pertaining to exhortation; hortatory. Holinshed. 

EXHORTER:  One who exhorts or incites. 

EXHUMATED:  Disinterred. [Obs.] 

EXHUMATION:  The act of exhuming that which has been buried; as, the exhumation of a body. 

EXHUME:  To dig out of the ground; to take out of a place of burial; to disinter. Mantell. 

EXICCATE:  See Exsiccate. [Obs.] Holland. 

EXICCATION:  See Exsiccation. [Obs.] 

EXIGENCE:  Exigency. Hooker. 

EXIGENCY:  The state of being exigent; urgent or exacting want; pressing necessity or distress; need; a case demanding immediate action, supply, or remedy; as, an unforeseen exigency. "The present exigency of his affairs." Ludlow.  Syn.  -- Demand; urgency; distress; pressure; emergency; necessity; crisis. 

EXIGENDARY:  See Exigenter. 

EXIGENT:  Exacting or requiring immediate aid or action; pressing; critical. "At this exigent moment." Burke. 

EXIGENT:  The name of a writ in proceedings before outlawry. Abbott. 

EXIGENTER:  An officer in the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas whose duty it was make out exigents. The office in now abolished. Cowell. 

EXIGIBLE:  That may be exacted; repairable. [R.] A. Smith. 

EXIGUITY:  Scantiness; smallness; thinness. [R.] Boyle. 

EXIGUOUS:  Scanty; small; slender; diminutive. [R.] "Exiguous resources." Carlyle.  -- Ex*ig"uous*ness, n. [R.] 

EXILE:  To banish or expel from one's own country or home; to drive away. "Exiled from eternal God." Tennyson. Calling home our exiled friends abroad. Shak.  Syn.  -- See Banish. 

EXILE:  Small; slender; thin; fine. [Obs.] "An exile sound." Bacon. 

EXILEMENT:  Banishment. [R.] Sir. H. Wotton. 

EXILIC:  Pertaining to exile or banishment, esp. to that of the Jews in Babylon. Encyc. Dict. 

EXILITION:  A sudden springing or leaping out. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXILITY:  Smallness; meagerness; slenderness; fineness, thinness. [R.] Paley. 

EXIMIOUS:  Select; choice; hence, extraordinary, excellent. [Obs.] The eximious and arcane science of physic. Fuller. 

EXINANITE:  To make empty; to render of no effect; to humble. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

EXINANITION:  n. [L. exinanitio.] An emptying; an enfeebling; exhaustion; humiliation. [Obs.] Fastings to the exinanition of spirits. Jer. Taylor. 

EXISTENCY:  Existence. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

EXISTENT:  Having being or existence; existing; being; occurring now; taking place. The eyes and mind are fastened on objects which have no real being, as if they were truly existent. Dryden. 

EXISTENTIAL:  Having existence. [Archaic] Bp. Barlow. --Ex`is*ten"tial*ly, adv. [Archaic] Existentially as well as essentially intelligent. Colerige. 

EXISTER:  One who exists. 

EXISTIBLE:  Capable of existence. Grew. 

EXISTIMATION:  Esteem; opinion; reputation. [Obs.] Steele. 

EXIT:  He (or she ) goes out, or retires from view; as, exit Macbeth.  Note: The Latin words exit (he or she goes out), and exeunt ( they go out), are used in dramatic writings to indicate the time of withdrawal from the stage of one or more of the actors. 

EXIT:  Destructive; fatal. [Obs.] "Exitial fevers." Harvey.  EX LIBRIS Ex` li"bris. [L. ex from + libris books.]  An inscription, label, or the like, in a book indicating its ownership; esp., a bookplate. 

EXMOOR:  A prefix signifying out of, outside; as in exocarp, exogen, exoskeleton.  EXOCARDIAC; EXOCARDIAL Ex`o*car"di*ac, Ex`o*car"di*al, a. Etym: [Exo- + Gr. (Anat.)  Situated or arising outside of the heat; as, exocardial murmurs; -- opposed to endocardiac. 

EXOCARP:  The outer portion of a fruit, as the flesh of a peach or the rind of an orange. See Illust. of Drupe. 

EXOCCIPITAL:  Pertaining to a bone or region on each side of the great foremen of the skull.  -- n.  The exoccipital bone, which often forms a part of the occipital in the adult, but is usually distinct in the young.  EXOCETUS; EXOCOETUS Ex`o*ce"tus ( or ), Ex`ocoe"tus, n. Etym: [NL. exocetus, L. exocoetus a fish that sleeps on the shore, Gr. (Zoöl)  A genus of fishes, including the common flying fishes. See Flying fish. 

EXOCULATE:  To deprive of eyes. [R.] W. C. Hazlitt. 

EXODE:  The final chorus; the catastrophe.  3. (Rom. Antig.)  An afterpiece of a comic description, either a farce or a travesty. 

EXODIC:  Conducting influences from the spinal cord outward; -- said of the motor or efferent nerves. Opposed to esodic. 

EXODIUM:  See Exode. 

EXODY:  Exodus; withdrawal. [Obs.] The time of the Jewish exody. Sir M. Hale.  EX-OFFICIAL Ex`-of*fi"cial, a.  Proceeding from office or authority.  EX OFFICIO Ex` of*fi"ci*o; pl. Ex officiis. Etym: [L.]  From office; by virtue, or as a consequence, of an office; officially. 

EXOGAMOUS:  Relating to exogamy; marrying outside of the limits of one's own tribe; -- opposed to endogenous. 

EXOGAMY:  The custom, or tribal law, which prohibits marriage between members of the same tribe; marriage outside of the tribe; -- opposed to endogamy. Lubbock. 

EXOGEN:  A plant belonging to one of the greater part of the vegetable kingdom, and which the plants are characterized by having c wood bark, and pith, the wood forming a layer between the other two, and increasing, if at all, by the animal addition of a new layer to the outside next to the bark. The leaves are commonly netted-veined, and the number of cotyledons is two, or, very rarely, several in a whorl. Cf. Endogen. Gray. 

EXOGENETIC:  Arising or growing from without; exogenous. 

EXOGENOUS:  Pertaining to, or having the character of, an exogen; -- the opposite of endogenous.  2. (Biol.)  Growing by addition to the exterior.  3. (Anat.)  Growing from previously ossified parts; -- opposed to autogenous. Owen. Exogenous aneurism (Med.), an aneurism which is produced by causes acting from without, as from injury. 

EXOGYRA:  A genus of Cretaceous fossil shells allied to oysters. 

EXOLETE:  Obsolete; out of use; state; insipid. [Obs.] 

EXOLUTION:  See Exsolution. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXOLVE:  To loose; to pay. [Obs.] 

EXON:  A native or inhabitant of Exeter, in England. 

EXON:  An officer of the Yeomen of the Guard; an Exempt. [Eng.] 

EXONERATION:  The act of disburdening, discharging, or freeing morally from a charge or imputation; also, the state of being disburdened or freed from a charge. 

EXONERATIVE:  Freeing from a burden or obligation; tending to exonerate. 

EXONERATOR:  One who exonerates or frees from obligation. 

EXOPHTHALMIA:  The protrusion of the eyeball so that the eyelids will not cover it, in consequence of disease. 

EXOPHTHALMIC:  Of or pertaining to, or characterized by, exophthalmia. Exophthalmic golter. Same as Rasedow's disease.  EXOPHTHALMOS; EXOPHTHALMUS Ex`oph*thal"mos, Ex`oph*thal"mus (, n. Etym: [NL.] (Med.)  Same as Exophthalmia. 

EXOPHTHALMY:  Exophthalmia. 

EXOPHYLLOUS:  Not sheathed in another leaf. 

EXOPLASM:  See Ectosarc, and Ectoplasm. 

EXOPODITE:  The external branch of the appendages of Crustacea. 

EXOPTABLE:  Very desirable. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EXOPTILE:  A name given by Lestiboudois to dicotyledons; -- so called because the plumule is naked. 

EXORABLE:  Capable of being moved by entreaty; pitiful; tender. Milton. 

EXORATE:  To persuade, or to gain, by entreaty. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EXORATION:  Entreaty. [R.] Beau. & Fl.  EXORBITANCE; EXORBITANCY Ex*or"bi*tance, Ex*or"bi*tan*cy,, n.  A going out of or beyond the usual or due limit; hence, enormity; extravagance; gross deviation from rule, right, or propriety; as, the exorbitances of the tongue or of deportment; exorbitance of demands. "a curb to your exorbitancies." Dryden. The lamentable exorbitances of their superstitions. Bp. Hall. 

EXORBITANTLY:  In an exorbitant, excessive, or irregular manner; enormously. 

EXORBITATE:  To go out of the track; to deviate. [Obs.] Bentley. 

EXORCISER:  An exorcist. 

EXORDIAL:  Pertaining to the exordium of a discourse: introductory. The exordial paragraph of the second epistle. I. Taylor. 

EXORDIUM:  A beginning; an introduction; especially, the introductory part of a discourse or written composition, which prepares the audience for the main subject; the opening part of an oration. "The exordium of repentance." Jer. Taylor. "Long prefaces and exordiums. " Addison. 

EXORHIZA:  A plant Whose radicle is not inclosed or sheathed by the cotyledons or plumule. Gray.  EXORHIZAL; EXORHIZOUS Ex`o*rhi"zal, Ex`o*rhi`zous, a. (Bot.)  Having a radicle which is not inclosed by the cotyledons or plumule; of or relating to an exorhiza. 

EXORNATION:  Ornament; decoration; embellishment. [Obs.] Hyperbolical exornations . . . many much affect. Burton. 

EXORTIVE:  Rising; relating to the east. [R.] 

EXOSCULATE:  To kiss; especially, to kiss repeatedly or fondly. [Obs.] 

EXOSKELETAL:  Pertaining to the exoskeleton; as exoskeletal muscles. 

EXOSKELETON:  The hardened parts of the external integument of an animal, including hair, feathers, nails, horns, scales, etc.,as well as the armor of armadillos and many reptiles, and the shells or hardened integument of numerous invertebrates; external skeleton; dermoskeleton. 

EXOSMOSE:  The passage of gases, vapors, or liquids thought membranes or porous media from within outward, in the phenomena of osmose; -- opposed to endosmose. See Osmose. 

EXOSMOSIS:  See Exosmose. 

EXOSMOTIC:  Pertaining to exosmose. 

EXOSPORE:  The extreme outer wall of a spore; the epispore. 

EXOSSATE:  To deprive of bones; to take out the bones of; to bone. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EXOSSATION:  A depriving of bone or of fruit stones. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EXOSSEOUS:  Boneless. "Exosseous animals. " Sir T. Browne. 

EXOSTOME:  The small aperture or foremen in the outer coat of the ovule of a plant. 

EXOSTOSIS:  Any protuberance of a bone which is not natural; an excrescence or morbid enlargement of a bone. Coxe.  2. (Bot.)  A knot formed upon or in the wood of trees by disease.  EXOTERIC; EXOTERICAL Ex`o*ter"ic, Ex`o*ter"ic*al a. Etym: [L. exotericus, Gr. exotérique. See Ex-]  External; public; suitable to be imparted to the public; hence, capable of being readily or fully comprehended; -- opposed to esoteric, or secret. The foppery of an exoteric and esoteric doctrine. De Quincey. 

EXOTERICS:  The public lectures or published writings of Aristotle. See Esoterics. 

EXOTERY:  That which is obvious, public, or common. Dealing out exoteries only to the vulgar. A. Tucker. 

EXOTHECA:  The tissue which fills the interspaces between the costæ of many madreporarian corals, usually consisting of small transverse or oblique septa. 

EXOTHECIUM:  The outer coat of the anther. 

EXOTHERMIC:  Characterized by, or formed with, evolution of heat; as, an exothermic reaction; -- opposed to endothermic. 

EXOTIC:  Introduced from a foreign country; not native; extraneous; foreign; as, an exotic plant; an exotic term or word. Nothing was so splendid and exotic as the ambassador. Evelyn. 

EXOTIC:  Anything of foreign origin; something not of native growth, as a plant, a word, a custom. Plants that are unknown to Italy, and such as the gardeners call exotics. Addison. 

EXOTICAL:  Foreign; not native; exotic. [R.] -- Ex*ot"ic*al*ness, n. 

EXOTICISM:  The state of being exotic; also, anything foreign, as a word or idiom; an exotic. 

EXPAND:  To state in enlarged form; to develop; as, to expand an equation. See Expansion, 5. 

EXPAND:  To become widely opened, spread apart, dilated, distended, or enlarged; as, flowers expand in the spring; metals expand by heat; the heart expands with joy. Dryden. 

EXPANDER:  Anything which causes expansion esp. (Mech.) a tool for stretching open or expanding a tube, etc. 

EXPANDING:  That expands, or may be expanded; extending; spreading; enlarging. Expanding bit, Expanding drill (Mech.), a bit or drill made adjustable for holes of various sizes; one which can be expanded in diameter while boring.  -- Expanding pulley (Mach.), a pulley so made, as in sections, that its diameter can be increased or diminished. 

EXPANSE:  That which is expanded or spread out; a wide extent of space or body; especially, the arch of the sky. "The green expanse." Savage. Lights . . . high in the expanse of heaven. Milton. The smooth expanse of crystal lakes. Pope. 

EXPANSE:  To expand. [Obs.] That lies expansed unto the eyes of all. Sir. T. Browne. 

EXPANSIBILITY:  The capacity of being expanded; as, the expansibility of air. 

EXPANSIBLE:  Capable of being expanded or spread out widely. Bodies are not expansible in proposition to their weight. Ex*pab"si*ble*ness ,n. -Ex*pan"si*bly ,adv. 

EXPANSILE:  Expansible. Ether and alcohol are more expansile than water. Brande & C. 

EXPANSION:  Enlargement or extension of business transaction; esp., increase of the circulation of bank notes.  5. (Math.)  The developed result of an indicated operation; as, the expansion of (a + b)2 is a2 + 2ab + b2.  6. (Steam Ebgine)  The operation of steam in a cylinder after its communication with the boiler has been cut off, by which it continues to exert pressure upon the moving piston.  7. (Nav. Arch.)  The enlargement of the ship mathematically from a model or drawing to the full or building size, in the process of construction. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  Note: Expansion is also used adjectively, as in expansion joint, expansion gear, etc. Expansion curve, a curve the coördinates of which show the relation between the pressure and volume of expanding gas or vapor; esp. (Steam engine), that part of an indicator diagram which shows the declining pressure of the steam as it expands in the cylinder.  -- Expansion gear (Stream Engine). a cut-off gear. See Illust. of Link motion.  -- Automatic expansion gear or cut-off, one that is regulated by the governor, and varies the supply of steam to the engine with the demand for power.  -- Fixed expansion gear, or Fixed cut-off, one that always operates at the same fixed point of the stroke.  -- Expansion joint, or Expansion coupling (Mech. & Engin.), a yielding joint or coupling for so uniting parts of a machine or structure that expansion, as by heat, is prevented from causing injurious strains; as by heat, is prevented from causing injurious strains; as: (a) A side or set of rollers, at the end of bridge truss, to support it but allow end play. (b) A telescopic joint in a steam pipe, to permit one part of the pipe to slide within the other. (c) A clamp for holding a locomotive frame to the boiler while allowing lengthwise motion.  -- Expansion valve (Steam Engine), a cut-off valve, to shut off steam from the cylinder before the end of each stroke. 

EXPANSIVE:  Having a capacity or tendency to expand or dilate; diffusive; of much expanse; wide-extending; as, the expansive force of heat; the expansive quality of air. A more expansive and generous compassion. Eustace. His forehead was broad and expansive. Prescott. -- Ex*pan"sive*ly, adv. -Ex*pan"sive*ness, n. 

EXPANSURE:  Expanse. [Obs.] "Night's rich expansure."  EX PARTE Ex` par"te. Etym: [L. See Ex-, and Part.]  Upon or from one side only; one-sided; partial; as, an ex parte statement. Ex parte application, one made without notice or opportunity to oppose.  -- Ex parte council, one that assembles at the request of only one of the parties in dispute.  -- Ex parte hearing or evidence (Law), that which is had or taken by one side or party in the absence of the other. Hearings before grand juries, and affidavits, are ex parte. Wharton's Law Dict. Burrill. 

EXPATIATE:  To expand; to spread; to extend; to diffuse; to broaden. Afford art an ample field in which to expatiate itself. Dryden. 

EXPATIATION:  Act of expatiating. 

EXPATIATORY:  Expansive; diffusive. [R.] 

EXPATRIATION:  The act of banishing, or the state of banishment; especially, the forsaking of one's own country with a renunciation of allegiance. Expatriation was a heavy ransom to pay for the rights of their minds and souls. Palfrey. 

EXPECT:  To wait; to stay. [Obs.] Sandys. 

EXPECT:  Expectation. [Obs.] Shak. 

EXPECTABLE:  That may be expected or looked for. Sir T. Browne.  EXPECTANCE; EXPECTANCY Ex*pect"ance, Ex*pect"an*cy, n.  1. The act of expecting ; expectation. Milton.  2. That which is expected, or looked or waited for with interest; the object of expectation or hope. The expectancy and rose of the fair state. Shak. Estate in expectancy (Law), one the possession of which a person is entitled to have at some future time, either as a remainder or reversion, or on the death of some one. Burrill. 

EXPECTANT:  Waiting in expectation; looking for; (Med.)  waiting for the efforts of nature, with little active treatment. Expectant estate (Law), an estate in expectancy. See under Expectancy. 

EXPECTANT:  One who waits in expectation; one held in dependence by hope of receiving some good. An expectant of future glory. South. Those who had employments, or were expectants. Swift. 

EXPECTATION:  The leaving of the disease principally to the efforts of nature to effect a cure. Expectation of life, the mean or average duration of the life individuals after any specified age.  Syn.  -- Anticipation; confidence; trust. 

EXPECTATIVE:  Constituting an object of expectation; contingent. Expectative grace, a mandate given by the pope or a prince appointing a successor to any benefice before it becomes vacant. Foxe. 

EXPECTATIVE:  Something in expectation; esp., an expectative grace. Milman. 

EXPECTEDLY:  In conformity with expectation. [R.] Walpole. 

EXPECTER:  One who expects. 

EXPECTINGLY:  In state of expectation. 

EXPECTIVE:  Expectative. [R.] Shipley. 

EXPECTORANT:  Tending to facilitate expectoration or to promote discharges of mucus, etc., from the lungs or throat.  -- n.  An expectorant medicine. 

EXPECTORATE:  To eject from the trachea or lungs; to discharge, as phlegm or other matter, by coughing, hawking, and spitting; to spit forth. 

EXPECTORATE:  To discharge matter from the lungs or throat bu hawking and spitting; to spit. 

EXPECTORATIVE:  Same as Expectorant. Harvey. 

EXPEDE:  To expedite; to hasten. [Obs.] 

EXPEDIATE:  To hasten; to expedite. [Obs.] "To expediate their business." Sir E. Sandys.  EXPEDIENCE; EXPEDIENCY Ex*pe"di*ence, Ex*pe"di*en*cy,, n.  1. The quality of being expedient or advantageous; fitness or suitableness to effect a purpose intended; adaptedness to self- interest; desirableness; advantage; advisability; -- sometimes contradistinguished from moral rectitude. Divine wisdom discovers no expediency in vice. Cogan. To determine concerning the expedience of action. Sharp. Much declamation may be heard in the present day against expediency, as if it were not the proper object of a deliberative assembly, and as if it were only pursued by the unprincipled. Whately.  2. Expedition; haste; dispatch. [Obs.] Making hither with all due expedience. Shak.  3. An expedition; enterprise; adventure. [Obs.] Forwarding this dear expedience. Shak. 

EXPEDIENTIAL:  . Governed by expediency; seeking advantage; as an expediential policy. "Calculating, expediential understanding." Hare.  -- Ex*pe`di*en"tial*ly , adv. 

EXPEDIMENT:  An expedient. [Obs.] A like expediment to remove discontent. Barrow. 

EXPEDITATE:  To deprive of the claws or the balls of the fore feet; as, to expeditate a dog that he may not chase deer. 

EXPEDITELY:  In expedite manner; expeditiously. 

EXPEDITENESS:  Quality of being expedite. 

EXPEDITIONARY:  Of or pertaining to an expedition; as, an expeditionary force. 

EXPEDITIONIST:  One who goes upon an expedition. [R]. 

EXPEDITIOUS:  Possessed of, or characterized by, expedition, or efficiency and rapidity in action; performed with, or acting with, expedition; quick; having celerity; speedily; as, an expeditious march or messenger.  -- Ex`pe*di"tious*ly, adv.  -- Ex`pe*di"tious*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Prompt; ready; speedy; alert. See Prompt. 

EXPEDITIVE:  Performing with speed. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EXPELLABLE:  Capable of being expelled or driven out. "Expellable by heat." Kirwan. 

EXPELLER:  One who. or that which, expels. 

EXPEND:  To lay out, apply, or employ in any way; to consume by use; to use up or distribute, either in payment or in donations; to spend; as, they expend money for food or in charity; to expend time labor, and thought; to expend hay in feeding cattle, oil in a lamp, water in mechanical operations. If my death might make this island happy . . . I would expend it with all willingness. Shak. 

EXPENDITOR:  A disburser; especially, one of the disbursers of taxes for the repair of sewers. Mozley & W. 

EXPENSEFULL:  Full of expense; costly; chargeable. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.  -- Ex*pense"ful*ly, adv. [R.] -- Ex*pense"ful*ness, n. [R.] 

EXPENSELESS:  Without cost or expense. 

EXPERIENCED:  Taught by practice or by repeated observations; skillful or wise by means of trials, use, or observation; as, an experienced physician, workman, soldier; an experienced eye. The ablest and most experienced statesmen. Bancroft. 

EXPERIENCER:  A table of mortality computed from the experience of one or more life-insurance companies. 

EXPERIENT:  Experienced. [Obs.] The prince now ripe and full experient. Beau & Fl. 

EXPERIENTIAL:  Derived from, or pertaining to, experience. Coleridge. It is called empirical or experiential . . . because it is divan to us by experience or observation, and not obtained as the result of inference or reasoning. Sir. W. Hamiltion. -- Ex*pe`ri*en"tial*ly, adv. DR. H. More. 

EXPERIENTIALISM:  The doctrine that experience, either that ourselves or of others, is the test or criterion of general knowledge; -- opposed to intuitionists. Experientialism is in short, a philosophical or logical theory, not a philosophical one. G. C. Robertson. 

EXPERIENTIALIST:  One who accepts the doctrine of experientialism. Also used adjectively. 

EXPERIMENT:  To make experiment; to operate by test or trial; -- often with on, upon, or in, referring to the subject of an experiment; with, referring to the instrument; and by, referring to the means; as, to experiment upon electricity; he experimented in plowing with ponies, or by steam power. 

EXPERIMENT:  , To try; to know, perceive, or prove, by trial experience. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 

EXPERIMENTALIST:  One who makes experiments; an experimenter. Whaterly. 

EXPERIMENTALIZE:  To make experiments (upon); to experiment. J. S. Mill. 

EXPERIMENTALLY:  By experiment; by experience or trial. J. S. Mill. 

EXPERIMENTARIAN:  Relying on experiment or experience. "an experimentarian philosopher." Boyle.  -- n.  One who relies on experiment or experience. [Obs.] 

EXPERIMENTATION:  The act of experimenting; practice by experiment. J. S. Mill. 

EXPERIMENTATIVE:  Experimental; of the nature of experiment. [R.] 

EXPERIMENTATOR:  An experimenter. [R.] 

EXPERIMENTER:  One who makes experiments; one skilled in experiments. Faraday. 

EXPERIMENTIST:  An experimenter. 

EXPERRECTION:  A waking up or arousing. [Obs.] Holland 

EXPERT:  Taught by use, practice, or experience, experienced; having facility of operation or performance from practice; knowing and ready from much practice; clever; skillful; as, an expert surgeon; expert in chess or archery. A valiant and most expert gentleman. Shak. What practice, howsoe'er expert In fitting aptest words to things . . . Hath power to give thee as thou wert Tennison.  Syn.  -- Adroit; dexterous; clever; ready; prompt. 

EXPERT:  To experience. [Obs.] Die would we daily, once it to expert. Spencer. 

EXPERTLY:  In a skillful or dexterous manner; adroitly; with readiness and accuracy. 

EXPERTNESS:  Skill derived from practice; readiness; as, expertness in seamanship, or in reasoning.  Syn.  -- Facility; readiness; dexterity; adroitness; skill. See Facility. 

EXPETIBLE:  Worthy of being wished for; desirable. [Obs.] Puller. 

EXPIABLE:  Capable of being expiated or atoned for; as, an expiable offense; expiable guilt. Bp. Hall. 

EXPIATE:  Terminated. [Obs.] Shak. 

EXPIATIST:  An expiator. [R.] 

EXPIATOR:  One who makes expiation or atonement. 

EXPIATORIOUS:  Of an expiatory nature; expiatory. Jer. Taylor. 

EXPIATORY:  Having power, or intended, to make expiation; atoning; as, an expiatory sacrifice. 

EXPILATION:  The act of expilating or stripping off; plunder; pillage. [Obs.] This ravenous expiation of the state. Daniel. 

EXPILATOR:  One who pillages; a plunderer; a pillager. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXPIRABLE:  That may expire; capable of being brought to an end. 

EXPIRANT:  One who expires or is expiring. 

EXPIRATION:  The act or process of breathing out, or forcing air from the lungs through the nose or mouth; as, respiration consists of inspiration and expiration; -- opposed to Ant: inspiration. (b) Emission of volatile matter; exhalation. The true cause of cold is an expiration from the globe of the earth. Bacon.  (c) The last emission of breath; death. "The groan of expiration." Rambler. (d) A coming to a close; cessation; extinction; termination; end. Before the expiration of thy time. Shak.  2. That which is expired; matter breathed forth; that which is produced by breathing out, as a sound. The aspirate "he," which is . . . a gentle expiration. G. Sharp. 

EXPIRATORY:  Pertaining to, or employed in, the expiration or emission of air from the lungs; as, the expiratory muscles. 

EXPIRY:  Expiration. He had to leave at the expiry of the term. Lamb. The Parliament . . . now approaching the expiry of its legal term. J. Morley. 

EXPISCATE:  To fish out; to find out by skill or laborious investigation; to search out. "To expiscate principles." [R.] Nichol. Dr.Burton has with much ingenuity endeavord to expiscate the truth which may be involved in them. W. L. Alexander. 

EXPISCATION:  The act of expiscating; a fishing. [R.] Chapman. 

EXPISCATORY:  Tending to fish out; searching out [R.] Carlyle. 

EXPLAIN:  To give an explanation. 

EXPLAINABLE:  Capable of being explained or made plain to the understanding; capable of being interpreted. Sir. T. Browne. 

EXPLAINER:  One who explains; an expounder or expositor; a commentator; an interpreter. 

EXPLANATE:  Spreading or extending outwardly in a flat form. 

EXPLANATIVE:  Explanatory. 

EXPLANATORINESS:  The quality of being explanatory. 

EXPLANATORY:  Serving to explain; containing explanation; as explanatory notes. Swift.  EXPLAT; EXPLATE Ex*plat", Ex*plate", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ex-+plat or plait.]  To explain; to unfold. [Obs.] Like Solon's self explatest the knotty laws. B. Jonson. 

EXPLETION:  Accomplishment; fulfillment. [Obs.] Killingbeck. 

EXPLETIVE:  Filling up; hence, added merely for the purpose of filling up; superfluous. "Expletive imagery." Hallam. Expletive phrases to plump his speech. Barrow. 

EXPLETIVE:  A word, letter, or syllable not necessary to the sense, but inserted to fill a vacancy; an oath. While explectives their feeble aid to join, And ten low words oft creep in one dull line. Pope. 

EXPLETIVELY:  In the manner of an expletive. 

EXPLETORY:  Serving to fill up; expletive; superfluous; as, an expletory word. Bp. Burnet. 

EXPLICABLE:  Capable of being explicated; that may be explained or accounted for; admitting explanation. It is not explicable upon any grounds. Burke. 

EXPLICABLENESS:  Quality of being explicable. 

EXPLICATE:  Evolved; unfolded. Jer. Taylor. 

EXPLICATIVE:  Serving to unfold or explain; tending to lay open to the understanding; explanatory. Sir W. Hamilton. 

EXPLICATOR:  One who unfolds or explains; an expounder; an explainer. 

EXPLICATORY:  Explicative. Barrow. 

EXPLICIT:  A word formerly used (as finis is now) at the conclusion of a book to indicate the end. 

EXPLICITLY:  In an explicit manner; clearly; plainly; without disguise or reservation of meaning; not by inference or implication; as, he explicitly avows his intention. 

EXPLICITNESS:  The quality of being explicit; clearness; directness. Jer. Taylor. 

EXPLOIT:  To utilize; to make available; to get the value or usefulness out of; as, to exploit a mine or agricultural lands; to exploit public opinion. [Recent]  3. Hence: To draw an illegitimate profit from; to speculate on; to put upon. [Recent] In no sense whatever does a man who accumulates a fortune by legitimate industry exploit his employés or make his capital "out of" anybody else. W. G. Sumner. 

EXPLOITATION:  The act of exploiting or utilizing. J. D. Whitney. 

EXPLORABLE:  That may be explored; as, an explorable region. 

EXPLORATE:  To explore. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne. 

EXPLORATION:  The act of exploring, penetrating, or ranging over for purposes of discovery, especially of geographical discovery; examination; as, the exploration of unknown countries; (Med.)  physical examination. "An exploration of doctrine." Bp. Hall. 

EXPLORATIVE:  Exploratory. 

EXPLORATOR:  One who explores; one who examines closely; a searcher. 

EXPLORATORY:  Serving or intended to explore; searching; examining; explorative. Sir H. Wotton. 

EXPLOREMENT:  The act of exploring; exploration. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXPLORER:  One who explores; also, an apparatus with which one explores, as a diving bell. 

EXPLORING:  Employed in, or designed for, exploration. "Exploring parties." Bancroft. 

EXPLOSIVE:  Driving or bursting out with violence and noise; causing explosion; as, the explosive force of gunpowder. 

EXPLOSIVELY:  In an explosive manner. 

EXPOLIATION:  See Exspoliation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

EXPOLISH:  To polish thoroughly. [Obs.] Heywood. 

EXPONE:  To expound; to explain; also, to expose; to imperil. [Old Eng. & Scotch] Drummond. 

EXPONENT:  A number, letter, or any quantity written on the right hand of and above another quantity, and denoting how many times the latter is repeated as a factor to produce the power indicated;  Note: thus a2 denotes the second power, and an the xth power, of a (2 and x being the exponents). A fractional exponent, or index, is used to denote the root of a quantity. Thus, a denotes the third or cube root of a.  2. One who, or that which, stands as an index or representative; as, the leader of a party is the exponent of its principles. Exponent of a ratio, the quotient arising when the antecedent is divided by the consequent; thus, 6 is the exponent of the ratio of 30 to 5. [R.] 

EXPONENTIAL:  Pertaining to exponents; involving variable exponents; as, an exponential expression; exponential calculus; an exponential function. Exponential curve, a curve whose nature is defined by means of an exponential equation.  -- Exponential equation, an equation which contains an exponential quantity, or in which the unknown quantity enters as an exponent.  -- Exponential quantity (Math.), a quantity whose exponent is unknown or variable, as ax.  -- Exponential series, a series derived from the development of exponential equations or quantities. 

EXPORTABILITY:  The quality or state of being suitable for exportation. To increase the exportability of native goods. J. P. Peters. 

EXPORTABLE:  Suitable for exportation; as, exportable products. 

EXPORTER:  One who exports; the person who sends goods or commodities to a foreign country, in the way of commerce; -- opposed to importer. 

EXPOSAL:  Exposure. Swift. 

EXPOSE:  A formal recital or exposition of facts; exposure, or revelation, of something which some one wished to keep concealed. 

EXPOSEDNESS:  The state of being exposed, laid open, or unprotected; as, an exposedness to sin or temptation. 

EXPOSER:  One who exposes or discloses. 

EXPOSITIVE:  Serving to explain; expository. Bp. Pearson. 

EXPOSITOR:  One who, or that which, expounds or explains; an expounder; a commentator. Bp. Horsley. 

EXPOSITORY:  Pertaining to, or containing, exposition; serving to explain; explanatory; illustrative; exegetical. A glossary or expository index to the poetical writers. Johnson.  EXPOST FACTO; EXPOSTFACTO Ex"post` fac"to, or Ex"post`fac"to. Etym: [L., from what is done afterwards.] (Law)  From or by an after act, or thing done afterward; in consequence of a subsequent act; retrospective. Ex post facto law, a law which operates by after enactment. The phrase is popularly applied to any law, civil or criminal, which is enacted with a retrospective effect, and with intention to produce that effect; but in its true application, as employed in American law, it relates only to crimes, and signifies a law which retroacts, by way of criminal punishment, upon that which was not a crime before its passage, or which raises the grade of an offense, or renders an act punishable in a more severe manner that it was when committed. Ex post facto laws are held to be contrary to the fundamental principles of a free government, and the States are prohibited from passing such laws by the Constitution of the United States. Burrill. Kent.  EX POST FACTO; EX POSTFACTO Ex" post` fac"to, or Ex" post`fac"to (eks" post" fak"to). [L., from what is done afterwards.] (Law)  From or by an after act, or thing done afterward; in consequence of a subsequent act; retrospective.  Ex post facto law, a law which operates by after enactment. The phrase is popularly applied to any law, civil or criminal, which is enacted with a retrospective effect, and with intention to produce that effect; but in its true application, as employed in American law, it relates only to crimes, and signifies a law which retroacts, by way of criminal punishment, upon that which was not a crime before its passage, or which raises the grade of an offense, or renders an act punishable in a more severe manner that it was when committed. Ex post facto laws are held to be contrary to the fundamental principles of a free government, and the States are prohibited from passing such laws by the Constitution of the United States.  Burrill.  Kent. 

EXPOSTULATE:  To reason earnestly with a person on some impropriety of his conduct, representing the wrong he has done or intends, and urging him to make redress or to desist; to remonstrate; -- followed by with. Men expostulate with erring friends; they bring accusations against enemies who have done them a wrong. Jowett (Thuc. ).  Syn.  -- To remonstrate; reason. See Remonstrate. 

EXPOSTULATE:  To discuss; to examine. [Obs.] To expostulate What majesty should be, what duty is. Shak. 

EXPOSTULATION:  The act of expostulating or reasoning with a person in opposition to some impropriety of conduct; remonstrance; earnest and kindly protest; dissuasion. We must use expostulation kindly. Shak. 

EXPOSTULATOR:  One who expostulates. Lamb. 

EXPOSTULATORY:  Containing expostulation or remonstrance; as, an expostulatory discourse or letter. 

EXPOSTURE:  Exposure. [Obs.] Shak. 

EXPOSURE:  The exposing of a sensitized plate to the action of light. 

EXPOUNDER:  One who expounds or explains; an interpreter. 

EXPRESSAGE:  The charge for carrying a parcel by express. 

EXPRESSIBLE:  Capable of being expressed, squeezed out, shown, represented, or uttered.  -- Express"i*bly,adv. 

EXPRESSION:  The representation of any quantity by its appropriate characters or signs. Past expression, Beyond expression, beyond the power of description. "Beyond expression bright." Milton. 

EXPRESSIONAL:  Of, or relating to, expression; phraseological; also, vividly representing or suggesting an idea sentiment. Fized. Hall. Ruskin. 

EXPRESSIONLESS:  Destitute of expression. 

EXPRESSLY:  In an express manner; in direct terms; with distinct purpose; particularly; as, a book written expressly for the young. The word of the Lord came expressly unto Ezekiel. Ezek. i. 3. I am sent expressly to your lordship. Shak. 

EXPRESSMAN:  A person employed in the express business; also, the driver of a job wagon. W. D. Howells. 

EXPRESSNESS:  The state or quality of being express; definiteness. [Obs.] Hammond.  EXPRESS RIFLE Ex*press" ri"fle.  A sporting rifle for use at short ranges, employing a large charge of powder and a light (short) bullet, giving a high initial velocity and consequently a flat trajectory. It is usually of moderately large caliber.  EXPRESS TRAIN Express train.  Formerly, a railroad train run expressly for the occasion; a special train; now, a train run at express or special speed and making few stops. 

EXPRESSURE:  The act of expressing; expression; utterance; representation. [Obs.] An operation more divine Than breath or pen can give expressure to. Shak. 

EXPROBRATE:  To charge upon with reproach; to upbraid. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXPROBRATION:  Reproachful accusation; upbraiding. [Obs.] A fearful exprobration of our unworthiness. Jer. Taylor.  EXPROBRATIVE; EXPROBRATORY Ex*pro"bra*tive, Ex*pro"bra*to*ry, a.  Expressing reproach; upbraiding; reproachful. [R.] Sir A. Shirley. 

EXPROPRIATE:  To put out of one's possession; to surrender the ownership of; also, to deprive of possession or proprietary rights. Boyle. Expropriate these [bad landlords] as the monks were expropriated by Act of Parliament. M. Arnold. 

EXPROPRIATION:  The act of expropriating; the surrender of a claim to exclusive property; the act of depriving of ownership or proprietary rights. W. Montagu. The expropriation of bad landlords. M. Arnold. 

EXPUGN:  To take by assault; to storm; to overcome; to vanquish; as, to expugn cities; to expugn a person by arguments. 

EXPUGNABLE:  Capable of being expugnded. 

EXPUGNATION:  The act of taking by assault; conquest. [R.] Sandys. 

EXPUGNER:  One who expugns. 

EXPULSE:  To drive out; to expel. [Obs.] If charity be thus excluded and expulsed. Milton. 

EXPULSER:  An expeller. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

EXPULSIVE:  Having the power of driving out or away; serving to expel. The expulsive power of a new affection. Chalmers. 

EXPUNCTION:  The act of expunging or erasing; the condition of being expunged. Milton. 

EXPURGATE:  To purify; to clear from anything noxious, offensive, or erroneous; to cleanse; to purge; as, to expurgate a book. 

EXPURGATION:  The act of expurgating, purging, or cleansing; purification from anything noxious, offensive, sinful, or erroneous. Milton. 

EXPURGATOR:  One who expurgates or purifies. 

EXPURGATORIAL:  Tending or serving to expurgate; expurgatory. Milman. 

EXPURGATORIOUS:  Expurgatory. [Obs.] "Expurgatorious indexes." Milton. 

EXPURGATORY:  Serving to purify from anything noxious or erroneous; cleansing; purifying. "Expurgatory animadversions." Sir T. Browne. Expurgatory Index. See Index Expurgatorius, under Index. 

EXPURGE:  To purge away. [Obs.] Milton. 

EXQUIRE:  To search into or out. [Obs.] Chapman. 

EXQUISITE:  One who manifests an exquisite attention to external appearance; one who is overnice in dress or ornament; a fop; a dandy. 

EXQUISITELY:  In an exquisite manner or degree; as, lace exquisitely wrought. To a sensitive observer there was something exquisitely painful in it. Hawthorne. 

EXQUISITENESS:  Quality of being exquisite. 

EXQUISITIVE:  Eager to discover or learn; curious. [Obs.] Todd.  -- Ex*quis"i*tive*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

EXSANGUINE:  Bloodless. [R.] 

EXSANGUINEOUS:  Destitute of blood; anæmic; exsanguious. 

EXSANGUINITY:  Privation or destitution of blood; -- opposed to plethora. Dunglison. 

EXSANGUINOUS:  See Exsanguious. 

EXSANGUIOUS:  Destitute of true, or red, blood, as insects. 

EXSCIND:  To cut off; to separate or expel from union; to extirpate. Barrow. The second presbytery of Philadelphia was also exscinded by that Assembly. Am. Cyc. 

EXSCRIBE:  To copy; to transcribe. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

EXSCRIPT:  A copy; a transcript. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EXSCRIPTURAL:  Not in accordance with the doctrines of Scripture; unscriptural. 

EXSCUTELLATE:  Without, or apparently without, a scutellum; -- said of certain insects. 

EXSECT:  The removal by operation of a portion of a limb; particularly, the removal of a portion of a bone in the vicinity of a joint; the act or process of cutting out.  EXSERT; EXSERTED Ex*sert", Ex*sert"ed, a. Etym: [L. exsertus, p.p. of exserere to stretch out or forth. See Exert.]  Standing out; projecting beyond some other part; as, exsert stamens. A small portion of the basal edge of the shell exserted. D. H. Barnes. 

EXSERTILE:  Capable of being thrust out or protruded. J. Fleming. 

EXSICCANT:  Having the quality of drying up; causing a drying up.  -- n. (Med.)  An exsiccant medicine. 

EXSICCATE:  To exhaust or evaporate moisture from; to dry up. Sir T. Browne. 

EXSICCATION:  The act of operation of drying; evaporation or expulsion of moisture; state of being dried up; dryness. Sir T. Browne. 

EXSICCATIVE:  Tending to make dry; having the power of drying. 

EXSICCATOR:  An apparatus for drying substances or preserving them from moisture; a desiccator; also, less frequently, an agent employed to absorb moisture, as calcium chloride, or concentrated sulphuric acid. 

EXSILIENCY:  A leaping out. [R.] Latham. 

EXSOLUTION:  Relaxation. [R.] Richardson (Dict. ). 

EXSPOLIATION:  Spoliation. [Obs. or R.] Bp. Hall. 

EXSPUITION:  A discharge of saliva by spitting. [R.] E. Darwin. 

EXSPUTORY:  Spit out, or as if spit out. "Exsputory lines." Cowper. 

EXSTIPULATE:  Having no stipules. Martyn. 

EXSTROPHY:  The eversion or turning out of any organ, or of its inner surface; as, exstrophy of the eyelid or of the bladder. 

EXSUCCOUS:  Destitute of juice; dry; sapless. Latham. 

EXSUCTION:  The act of sucking out. 

EXSUDATION:  Exudation. 

EXSUFFLATE:  To exorcise or renounce by blowing. 

EXSUFFLATION:  A kind of exorcism by blowing with the breath. Jer. Taylor.  3. (Physiol.)  A strongly forced expiration of air from the lungs. 

EXSUFFLICATE:  Empty; frivolous. [A Shakespearean word only once used.] Such exsufflicate and blown surmises. Shak. (Oth. iii. 3, 182). 

EXSUSCITATE:  To rouse; to excite. [Obs.] Johnson. 

EXSUSCITATION:  A stirring up; a rousing. [Obs.] Hallywell. 

EXTACY:  See Ecstasy. [Obs.] 

EXTANCE:  Outward existence. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXTANCY:  The state of rising above others; a projection. Evelyn. Boyle. 

EXTASY:  See Ecstasy, n. & v. t. 

EXTATIC:  See Ecstatic, a. 

EXTEMPORAL:  Extemporaneous; unpremeditated. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  -- Ex*tem"po*ral*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

EXTEMPORANEAN:  Extemporaneous. [Obs] Burton. 

EXTEMPORANEOUS:  Composed, performed, or uttered on the spur of the moment, or without previous study; unpremeditated; off-hand; extempore; extemporary; as, an extemporaneous address or production.  -- Ex*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.  -- Ex*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness,n. 

EXTEMPORARILY:  Extemporaneously. 

EXTEMPORE:  Without previous study or meditation; without preparation; on the spur of the moment; suddenly; extemporaneously; as, to write or speak extempore. Shak.  -- a.  Done or performed extempore. "Extempore dissertation." Addison. "Extempore poetry." Dryden.  -- n.  Speaking or writing done extempore. [Obs.] Bp. Fell. 

EXTEMPORINESS:  The quality of being done or devised extempore [Obs.] Johnson. 

EXTEMPORIZATION:  The act of extemporizing; the act of doing anything extempore. 

EXTEMPORIZE:  To speak extempore; especially, to discourse without special preparation; to make an offhand address. 

EXTEMPORIZE:  To do, make, or utter extempore or off-hand; to prepare in great haste, under urgent necessity, or with scanty or unsuitable materials; as, to extemporize a dinner, a costume, etc. Themistocles . . . was of all men the best able to extemporize the right thing to be done. Jowett (Thucyd. ). Pitt, of whom it was said that he could extemporize a Queen's speech Lord Campbell. 

EXTEMPORIZER:  One who extemporizes. 

EXTEND:  To value, as lands taken by a writ of extent in satisfaction of a debt; to assign by writ of extent. Extended letter (Typog.), a letter, or style of type, having a broader face than is usual for a letter or type of the same height.  Note: This is extended type.  Syn.  -- To increase; enlarge; expand; widen; diffuse. See Increase. 

EXTENDANT:  Displaced. Ogilvie. 

EXTENDEDLY:  In an extended manner. 

EXTENDER:  One who, or that which, extends or stretches anything. 

EXTENDIBLE:  Liable to be taken by a writ of extent. 

EXTENDLESSNESS:  Unlimited extension. [Obs.] An . . . extendlessness of excursions. Sir. M. Hale. 

EXTENSE:  Outreaching; expansive; extended, superficially or otherwise. Men and gods are too extense; Could you slacken and condense Emerson. 

EXTENSIBILITY:  The quality of being extensible; the capacity of being extended; as, the extensibility of a fiber, or of a plate of metal. 

EXTENSIBLE:  Capable of being extended, whether in length or breadth; susceptible of enlargement; extensible; extendible; -- the opposite of contractible or compressible. "An extensible membrane" Holder. 

EXTENSIBLENESS:  Extensibility. 

EXTENSILE:  Suited for, or capable of, extension; extensible. Owen. 

EXTENSION:  That property of a body by which it occupies a portion of space.  3. (Logic & Metaph.)  Capacity of a concept or general term to include a greater or smaller number of objects; -- correlative of intension. The law is that the intension of our knowledge is in the inverse ratio of its extension. Sir W. Hamilton. The extension of [the term] plant is greater than that of geranium, because it includes more objects. Abp. Thomson.  4. (Surg.)  The operation of stretching a broken bone so as to bring the fragments into the same straight line.  5. (Physiol.)  The straightening of a limb, in distinction from flexion.  6. (Com.)  A written engagement on the part of a creditor, allowing a debtor further time to pay a debt. Counter extension. (Surg.) See under Counter.  -- Extension table, a table so constructed as to be readily extended or contracted in length. 

EXTENSIONAL:  Having great extent. 

EXTENSIONIST:  One who favors or advocates extension. 

EXTENSIVELY:  To a great extent; widely; largely; as, a story is extensively circulated. 

EXTENSIVENESS:  The state of being extensive; wideness; largeness; extent; diffusiveness. 

EXTENSOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the extension of a body, especially for measuring the elongation of bars of iron, steel, or other material, when subjected to a tensile force. 

EXTENSOR:  A muscle which serves to extend or straighten any part of the body, as an arm or a finger; -- opposed to flexor. 

EXTENSURE:  Extension. [R.] Drayton. 

EXTENT:  Extended. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EXTENUATE:  To become thinner; to make excuses; to advance palliating considerations. Burke. 

EXTENUATE:  Thin; slender. [Obs.] Huloet. 

EXTENUATION:  The act of axtenuating or the state of being extenuated; the act of making thin, slender, or lean, or of palliating; diminishing, or lessening; palliation, as of a crime; mitigation, as of punishment. To listen . . . to every extenuation of what is evil. I. Taylor. 

EXTENUATOR:  One who extenuates. 

EXTENUATORY:  Tending to extenuate or palliate. Croker. 

EXTERIORITY:  Surface; superficies; externality. 

EXTERIORLY:  Outwardly; externally; on the exterior. Shak. They are exteriorly lifelike. J. H. Morse. 

EXTERMINATE:  To eliminate, as unknown quantities. [R.] 

EXTERMINATION:  Elimination. [R.] 

EXTERMINATOR:  One who, or that which, exterminates. Buckle. 

EXTERMINATORY:  Of or pertaining to extermination; tending to exterminate. "Exterminatory war." Burke. 

EXTERMINE:  To exterminate; to destroy. [Obs.] Shak. 

EXTERN:  External; outward; not inherent. [Obs.] Shak. 

EXTERNAL:  Away from the mesial plane of the body; lateral. External angles. (Geom.) See under Angle. 

EXTERNAL:  Something external or without; outward part; that which makes a show, rather than that which is intrinsic; visible form; -- usually in the plural. Adam was then no less glorious in his externals South. God in externals could not place content. Pope. 

EXTERNALISM:  That philosophy or doctrine which recognizes or deals only with externals, or objects of sense perception; positivism; phenomenalism. 

EXTERNALISTIC:  Pertaining to externalism North Am. Rev. 

EXTERNALITY:  State of being external; exteriority; (Metaph.)  separation from the perceiving mind. Pressure or resistance necessarily supposes externality in the thing which presses or resists. A. Smith. 

EXTERNALIZE:  To make external; to manifest by outward form. Thought externalizes itself in language. Soyce. 

EXTERNALLY:  In an external manner; outwardly; on the outside; in appearance; visibly. 

EXTERNE:  An officer in attendance upon a hospital, but not residing in it; esp., one who cares for the out-patients. 

EXTERRANEOUS:  Foreign; belonging to, or coming from, abroad. 

EXTERRITORIAL:  Beyond the territorial limits; foreign to, or exempt from, the territorial jurisdiction.  -- Ex*ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly(#),adv. 

EXTERSION:  The act of wiping or rubbing out. [Obs.] 

EXTILL:  To drop or distill. [Obs.] Johnson. 

EXTILLATION:  Distillation. [Obs.] An exudation or extillation of petrifying juices. Derham. 

EXTIMULATE:  To stimulate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXTIMULATION:  Stimulation. [Obs.] Things insipid, and without any extimulation. Bacon. 

EXTINCT:  To cause to be extinct. [Obs.] Shak. 

EXTINE:  The outer membrane of the grains of pollen of flowering plants. 

EXTINGUISHABLE:  Capable of being quenched, destroyed, or suppressed. 

EXTINGUISHER:  One who, or that which, extinguishes; esp., a hollow cone or other device for extinguishing a flame, as of a torch or candle. 

EXTINGUISHMENT:  The annihilation or extinction of a right or obligation. Abbott. 

EXTIRP:  To extirpate. [Obs.] It is impossible to extirp it quite, friar. Shak . 

EXTIRPABLE:  Capable of being extirpated or eradicated; as, an extirpable plant. Evelyn. 

EXTIRPATE:  To pluck up by the stem or root; to root out; to eradicate, literally or figuratively; to destroy wholly; as, to extirpate weeds; to extirpate a tumor; to extirpate a sect; to extirpate error or heresy.  Syn.  -- To eradicate; root out; destroy; exterminate; annihilate; extinguish. 

EXTIRPATION:  The act of extirpating or rooting out, or the state of being extirpated; eradication; excision; total destruction; as, the extirpation of weeds from land, of evil from the heart, of a race of men, of heresy. 

EXTIRPATIVE:  Capable of rooting out, or tending to root out. Cheyne. 

EXTIRPATOR:  One who extirpates or roots out; a destroyer. 

EXTIRPATORY:  Extirpative. 

EXTIRPER:  Extirpator. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EXTISPICIOUS:  Relating to the inspection of entrails for prognostication. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXTOGENOUS:  Exogenous. 

EXTOLLER:  One who extols; one who praises. 

EXTOLMENT:  Praise. [Obs.] Shak. 

EXTORSIVE:  Serving or tending to extort. [R.] Johnson.  -- Ex*tor"sive*ly, adv. [R.] 

EXTORT:  To get by the offense of extortion. See Extortion, 2. 

EXTORT:  To practice extortion. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EXTORT:  Extorted. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EXTORTER:  One who practices extortion. 

EXTORTION:  The offense committed by an officer who corruptly claims and takes, as his fee, money, or other thing of value, that is not due, or more than is due, or before it is due. Abbott.  3. That which is extorted or exacted by force.  Syn.  -- Oppression; rapacity; exaction; overcharge. 

EXTORTIONARY:  Extortionate. 

EXTORTIONATE:  Characterized by extortion; oppressive; hard. 

EXTORTIONER:  , One who practices extortion. 

EXTORTIOUS:  Extortionate. [Obs.] "Extortious cruelties." Bp. Hall -- Ex*tor"tious*ly, adv. [Obs.] Bacon.  EXTRA- Ex"tra-. Etym: [L., fr. exter. See Exterior.]  A Latin preposition, denoting beyond, outside of; -- often used in composition as a prefix signifying outside of, beyond, besides, or in addition to what is denoted by the word to which it is prefixed. 

EXTRA:  Beyond what is due, usual, expected, or necessary; additional; supernumerary; also, extraordinarily good; superior; as, extra work; extra pay. "By working extra hours." H. Spencer. 

EXTRA:  Something in addition to what is due, expected, or customary; something in addition to the regular charge or compensation, or for which an additional charge is made; as, at European hotels lights are extras. [Colloq.] 

EXTRAARTICULAR:  Situated outside of a joint.  EXTRAAXILLAR; EXTRAAXILLARY Ex`tra*ax"il*lar, Ex`tra*ax"il*la*ry a. (Bot.)  Growing outside of the axils; as, an extra-axillary bud. 

EXTRABRANCHIAL:  Outside of the branchial arches; -- said of the cartilages thus placed in some fishes. 

EXTRACAPSULAR:  Situated outside of a capsule, esp. outside the capsular ligament of a joint. 

EXTRACT:  A solid preparation obtained by evaporating a solution of a drug, etc., or the fresh juice of a plant; -- distinguished from an abstract. See Abstract, n., 4.  5. (Old Chem.)  A peculiar principle once erroneously supposed to form the basis of all vegetable extracts; -- called also the extractive principle. [Obs.]  6. Extraction; descent. [Obs.] South.  7. (Scots Law)  A draught or copy of writing; certified copy of the proceedings in an action and the judgement therein, with an order for execution. Tomlins. Fluid extract (Med.), a concentrated liquid preparation, containing a definite proportion of the active principles of a medicinal substance. At present a fluid gram of extract should represent a gram of the crude drug.  EXTRACTABLE; EXTRACTIBLE Ex*tract"a*ble, Ex*tract"i*ble, a.  Capable of being extracted. 

EXTRACTIFORM:  Having the form, appearance, or nature, of an extract. 

EXTRACTOR:  One who, or that which, extracts; as: (a) (Surg.) A forceps or instrument for extracting substances. (b) (Breech-loading Firearms) A device for withdrawing a cartridge or spent cartridge shell from the chamber of the barrel. 

EXTRADICTIONARY:  Consisting not in words, but in realities. [Obs.] Of these extradictionary and real fallacies, Aristotle and logicians make in number six. Sir T. Browne. 

EXTRADITE:  To deliver up by one government to another, as a fugitive from justice. See Extradition. 

EXTRADITION:  The surrender or delivery of an alleged criminal by one State or sovereignty to another having jurisdiction to try charge. 

EXTRADOS:  The exterior curve of an arch; esp., the upper curved face of the whole body of voussoirs. See Intrados. 

EXTRADOTAL:  Forming no part of the dowry; as, extradotal property. 

EXTRAFOLIACEOUS:  Away from the leaves, or inserted in a different place from them; as, extrafoliaceous prickles. Loudon. 

EXTRAFORANEOUS:  Pertaining to that which is out of doors. "Extr occupations." Cowper. 

EXTRAGENEOUS:  Belonging to another race or kind. 

EXTRAJUDICIAL:  Out of or beyond the proper authority of a court or judge; beyond jurisdiction; not legally required. "An extrajudicial opinion." Hallam.  -- Ex`tra*ju*di"cial*ly, adv.  EXTRAJUDICIAL CONVEYANCE Extrajudicial conveyance. (Law)  A conveyance, as by deed, effected by the act of the parties and not involving, as in the fine and recovery, judicial proceedings. 

EXTRALIMITARY:  Being beyond the limit or bounds; as, extraliminary land. Mitford. 

EXTRALOGICAL:  Lying outside of the domain of logic.  -- Ex`tra*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

EXTRAMISSION:  A sending out; emission. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXTRAMUNDANE:  Beyond the material world. "An extramundane being." Bp. Warburton. 

EXTRAMURAL:  Outside of the walls, as of a fortified or walled city. 

EXTRANEITY:  State of being without or beyond a thing; foreignness. [Obs.] 

EXTRANEOUS:  Not belonging to, or dependent upon, a thing; without or beyond a thing; not essential or intrinsic; foreign; as, to separate gold from extraneous matter. Nothing is admitted extraneous from the indictment. Landor. -- Ex*tra"ne*ous*ly, adv.  EXTRA-OCULAR Ex`tra-oc"u*lar, a. (Zoöl.)  Inserted exterior to the eyes; -- said of the antennæ of certain insects.  EXTRA-OFFICIAL Ex`tra-of*fi"cial, a.  Not prescribed by official duty. 

EXTRAORDINARILY:  In an extraordinary manner or degree. 

EXTRAORDINARINESS:  The quality of being extraordinary. [R.] Gov. of the Tongue. 

EXTRAORDINARY:  That which is extraordinary; -- used especially in the plural; as, extraordinaries excepted, there is nothing to prevent success. Their extraordinary did consist especially in the matter of prayers and devotions. Jer. Taylor. 

EXTRAPAROCHIAL:  Beyond the limits of a parish.  -- Ex`tra*pa*ro"chi*al*ly, adv. 

EXTRAPHYSICAL:  Not subject to physical laws or methods. 

EXTRAPROFESSIONAL:  Foreign to a profession; not within the ordinary limits of professional duty or business. 

EXTRAPROVINCIAL:  Not within of pertaining to the same province or jurisdiction. Ayliffe. 

EXTRAREGULAR:  Not comprehended within a rule or rules. Jer. Taylor. 

EXTRASTAPEDIAL:  Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, which, in many animals, projects beyond the connection with the stapes.  -- n.  The extrastapedial part of columella. 

EXTRATERRITORIAL:  Beyond the limits of a territory or particular jurisdiction; exterritorial.  -- Ex`tra*ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly(#), adv. 

EXTRATERRITORIALITY:  The state of being beyond the limits of a particular territory; esp. (Internat. Law),  a fiction by which a public minister, though actually in a foreign country, is supposed still to remain within the territory of his own sovereign or nation. Wheaton. 

EXTRATROPICAL:  Beyond or outside of the tropics. Whewell. 

EXTRAUGHT:  Extracted; descended. [Obs.] Knowing whence thou art extraught Shak.  EXTRA-UTERINE Ex`tra-u"ter*ine, a. (Anat. & Med.)  Outside of the uterus, or womb. Extra-uterine pregnancy (Med.), a condition of pregnancy in which the fetus is not in the uterus, but in the Fallopian tube or in the abdominal cavity. 

EXTRAVAGANCY:  Extravagance. 

EXTRAVAGANT:  Certain constitutions or decretal epistles, not at first included with others, but subsequently made a part of the canon law. 

EXTRAVAGANTLY:  In an extravagant manner; wildly; excessively; profusely. 

EXTRAVAGANTNESS:  The state of being extravagant or in excess; excess; extravagance. 

EXTRAVAGATE:  To rove. Bp. Warburton. 

EXTRAVAGATION:  A wandering beyond limits; excess. [Obs.] Smollett. 

EXTRAVASATE:  To force or let out of the proper vessels or arteries, as blood. 

EXTRAVASATION:  The act of forcing or letting out of its proper vessels or ducts, as a fluid; effusion; as, an extravasation of blood after a rupture of the vessels. 

EXTRAVENATE:  Let out of the veins. [Obs.] "Extravenate blood." Glanvill. 

EXTRAVERSION:  The act of throwing out; the state of being turned or thrown out. [Obs.] Boyle. 

EXTREAT:  Extraction. [Obs.] Spenser. 

EXTREME:  Extended or contracted as much as possible; -- said of intervals; as, an extreme sharp second; an extreme flat forth. Extreme and mean ratio (Geom.), the relation of a line and its segments when the line is so divided that the whole is to the greater segment is to the less.  -- Extreme distance. (Paint.) See Distance., n., 6.  -- Extreme unction. See under Unction.  Note: Although this adjective, being superlative in signification, is not properly subject to comparison, the superlative form not unfrequently occurs, especially in the older writers. "Tried in his extremest state." Spenser. "Extremest hardships." Sharp. "Extremest of evils." Bacon. "Extremest verge of the swift brook." Shak. "The sea's extremest borders." Addison. 

EXTREME:  Either of the extreme terms of a syllogism, the middle term being interposed between them.  5. (Math.)  The first or the last term of a proportion or series. In the extreme as much as possible. "The position of the Port was difficult in the extreme." J. P. Peters. 

EXTREMELESS:  Having no extremes; infinite. 

EXTREMELY:  In an extreme manner or state; in the utmost degree; to the utmost point; exceedingly; as, extremely hot or cold. 

EXTREMIST:  A supporter of extreme doctrines or practice; one who holds extreme opinions. 

EXTREMITY:  One of locomotive appendages of an animal; a limb; a leg or an arm of man.  3. The utmost point; highest degree; most aggravated or intense form. "The extremity of bodily pain." Ray.  4. The highest degree of inconvenience, pain, or suffering; greatest need or peril; extreme need; necessity. Divers evils and extremities that follow upon such a compulsion shall here be set in view. Milton. Upon mere extremity he summoned this last Parliament. Milton.  Syn.  -- Verge; border; extreme; end; termination. 

EXTRICABLE:  Capable of being extricated. Sir W. Jones. 

EXTRINSIC:  Attached partly to an organ or limb and partly to some other partintrinsic. 

EXTRINSICAL:  Extrinsic.  -- Ex*trin"sic*al*ly(#), adv.  EXTRINSICALITY; EXTRINSICALNESS Ex*trin`si*cal"i*ty, Ex*trin"sic*al*ness, n.  The state or quality of being extrinsic. 

EXTROITIVE:  Seeking or going out after external objects. [R.] Their natures being almost wholly extroitive. Coleridge. 

EXTRORSAL:  Extrorse. 

EXTRORSE:  Facing outwards, or away from the axis of growth; -- said esp. of anthers occupying the outer side of the filament. 

EXTROVERSION:  The condition of being turned wrong side out; as, extroversion of the bladder. Dunglison. 

EXTRUCT:  To construct. [Obs.] Byrom. 

EXTRUCTION:  A building up; construction. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EXTRUCTIVE:  Constructive. [Obs.] Fulke. 

EXTRUCTOR:  A builder. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EXTRUDE:  To thrust out; to force, press, or push out; to expel; to drive off or away. "Parentheses thrown into notes or extruded to the margin." Coleridge. 

EXTRUSION:  The act of thrusting or pushing out; a driving out; expulsion. 

EXTRUSIVE:  Forced out at the surface; as, extrusive rocks; -- contrasted with intrusive. 

EXTUBERANCE:  A swelling or rising; protuberance. [R.] Moxon. 

EXTUBERANCY:  Extuberance. [R.] 

EXTUBERANT:  Swollen out; protuberant. [R.] "Extuberant lips." Gayton. 

EXTUBERATE:  To swell out. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

EXTUBERATION:  Protuberance. [Obs.] Farindon. 

EXTUMESCENCE:  A swelling or rising. [R.] Cotgrave. 

EXUBERANCE:  The state of being exuberant; an overflowing quantity; a copious or excessive production or supply; superabundance; richness; as, an exuberance of joy, of fancy, or of foliage.  Syn.  -- Abundance; superabundance; excess; plenty; copiousness; profusion; richness; overflow; overgrowth; rankness; wantonness. See Abundance. 

EXUBERANCY:  , . Exuberance. 

EXUBERANT:  Characterized by abundance or superabundance; plenteous; rich; overflowing; copious or excessive in production; as, exuberant goodness; an exuberant intellect; exuberant foliage. "Exuberant spring." Thomson.  -- Ex*u"ber*ant*ly, adv. 

EXUBERATE:  To abound; to be in great abundance. [Obs.] Boyle. 

EXUCCOUS:  See Exsuccous. [Obs.] 

EXUDATE:  To exude. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

EXUDATION:  The act of exuding; sweating; a discharge of humors, moisture, juice, or gum, as through pores or incisions; also, the substance exuded. Resins, a class of proximate principles, existing in almost all plants and appearing on the external surface of many of them in the form of exudations. Am. Cyc. 

EXUDE:  To discharge through pores or incisions, as moisture or other liquid matter; to give out. Our forests exude turpentine in . . . abundance. Dr. T. Dwight. 

EXUDE:  To flow from a body through the pores, or by a natural discharge, as juice. 

EXULCERATE:  Very sore; ulcerated. [Obs.] Bacon. 

EXULCERATIVE:  Tending to cause ulcers; exulceratory. Holland. 

EXULCERATORY:  Having a tendency to form ulcers; rendering ulcerous. 

EXULT:  To be in high spirits; figuratively, to leap for joy; to rejoice in triumph or exceedingly; to triumph; as, an exulting heart. "An exulting countenance." Bancroft. The dumb shall sing, the lame his crutch forego, And leap exulting like the bounding roe. Pope.  EXULTANCE; EXULTANCY Ex*ult"ance, Ex*ult"an*cy, n. Etym: [L. exsultantia.]  Exultation. [Obs.] Burton. Hammond. 

EXULTANT:  Inclined to exult; characterized by, or expressing, exultation; rejoicing triumphantly. Break away, exultant, from every defilement. I. Tay;or. 

EXULTATION:  The act of exulting; lively joy at success or victory, or at any advantage gained; rapturous delight; triumph. His bosom swelled with exultation. Prescott. 

EXULTING:  Rejoicing triumphantly or exceedingly; exultant.  -- Ex*ult"ing*ly, adv. 

EXUNDATE:  To overflow; to inundate. [Obs.] Bailey. 

EXUNDATION:  An overflow, or overflowing abundance. [R.] Ray. 

EXUNGULATE:  To pare off, as nails, the hoof, etc. [R.] 

EXUPERABLE:  Surmountable; superable. [Obs.] Johnson. 

EXUPERANCE:  Superiority; superfluity. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 

EXUPERANT:  Surpassing; exceeding; surmounting. [Obs.] 

EXUPERATE:  To excel; to surmount. [Obs.] 

EXUPERATION:  The act of rising or coming into view. [Obs.] Baxter. 

EXURGENT:  Arising; coming to light. [Obs.] 

EXUSCITATE:  See Exsuscitate [Obs.] T. Adams. 

EXUSTION:  The act or operation of burning up. Bailey. 

EXUTORY:  An issue. 

EXUVIA:  n. sing. of Exuviæ. 

EXUVIABILITY:  Capability of shedding the skin periodically. Craig. 

EXUVIABLE:  Capable of being cast off in the form of exuviæ. 

EXUVIAE:  Cast skins, shells, or coverings of animals; any parts of animals which are shed or cast off, as the skins of snakes, the shells of lobsters, etc.  2. (Geol.)  The fossil shells and other remains which animals have left in the strata of the earth. 

EXUVIAL:  Of or pertaining to exuviæ. "Exuvial layers." "Exuvial deposits." 

EXUVIATE:  To shed an old covering or condition preliminary to taking on a new one; to molt. There is reason to suppose that very old crayfish do not exuviate every year. Huxley. 

EXUVIATION:  The rejecting or casting off of some part, more particularly, the outer cuticular layer, as the shells of crustaceans, skins of snakes, etc.; molting; ecdysis.  EX-VOTO Ex`-vo"to, n.;pl. Ex-votos (-töz). Etym: [L. ex out of, in accordance with + voto, abl. of votum a vow.]  An offering to a church in fulfillment of a vow. 

EY:  An island. [Obs.] 

EY:  See Egg. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EY:  an interj. of wonder or inquiry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EYALET:  Formerly, one of the administrative divisions or provinces of the Ottoman Empire; -- now called a vilayet. 

EYAS:  A nesting or unfledged Lird; in falconry, a young hawk from the nest, not able to pr Shak J. H. Walsh 

EYAS:  Unfledged, or newly fledged. [Obs.] Like eyas hawk up mounts unto the skies, His newly budded pinions assay. Spebser. 

EYASMUSKET:  An unfledged or young male sparrow hawk. [Obs.] Shak. 

EYE:  A brood; as, an eye of pheasants. 

EYE:  To fix the eye on; to look on; to view; to observe; particularly, to observe or watch narrowly, or with fixed attention; to hold in view. Eye me, blest Providence, and square my trial To my proportioned strength. Milton. 

EYE:  To appear; to look. [Obs.] My becomings kill me, when they do not Eye well to you. Shak. 

EYEBALL:  The ball or globe of the eye. 

EYEBAR:  A bar with an eye at one or both ends. 

EYEBEAM:  A glance of the eye. Shak. 

EYEBOLT:  A bolt which a looped head, or an opening in the head. 

EYEBRIGHT:  A small annual plant (Euphrasia officinalis), formerly much used as a remedy for diseases of the eye. 

EYEBROW:  The brow or hairy arch above the eye. Shak. 

EYECUP:  A small oval porcelain or glass cup, having a rim curved to fit the orbit of the eye. it is used in the application of liquid remedies to eyes; -- called also eyeglass. 

EYED:  Heaving (such or so many) eyes; -- used in composition; as sharp-eyed; dull-eyed; sad-eyed; ox-eyed Juno; myriad-eyed. 

EYEDROP:  A tear. [Poetic] Shak. 

EYEFLAP:  A blinder on a horse's bridle. 

EYEFUL:  Filling or satisfying the eye; visible; remarkable. [Obs.] "Eyeful trophies." Chapman. 

EYEGLANCE:  A glance of eye. 

EYEHOLE:  A circular opening to recive a hook, cord, ring, or rope; an eyelet. 

EYELESS:  Without eyes; blind. "Eyeless rage." Shak. 

EYELETEER:  A small, sharp-pointed instrument used in piercing eyelet holes; a stiletto. 

EYELID:  The cover of the eye; that portion of movable skin with which an animal covers or uncovers the eyeball at pleasure.  EYE-MINDED Eye"-mind`ed, a.  Having one's mental imagery prevailingly of the visual type; having one's thoughts and memories mainly in the form of visual images. -- Eye"-mind`ed*ness, n. 

EYEN:  Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.  EYE OPENER Eye opener.  That which makes the eyes open, as startling news or occurrence, or (U. S. Slang), a drink of liquor, esp. the first one in the morning. 

EYEPIECE:  The lens, or combination of lenses, at the eye end of a telescope or other optical instrument, through which the image formed by the mirror or object glass is viewed. Collimating eyepiece. See under Collimate.  -- Negative, or Huyghenian, eyepiece, an eyepiece consisting of two plano-convex lenses with their curved surfaces turned toward the object glass, and separated from each other by about half the sum of their focal distances, the image viewed by the eye being formed between the two lenses. it was devised by Huyghens, who applied it to the telescope. Campani applied it to the microscope, whence it is sometimes called Campani's eyepiece.  -- Positive eyepiece, an eyepiece consisting of two plano-convex lenses placed with their curved surfaces toward each other, and separated by a distance somewhat less than the focal distance of the one nearest eye, the image of the object viewed being beyond both lenses; -- called also, from the name of the inventor, Ramsden's eyepiece.  -- terrestrial, or Erecting eyepiece, an eyepiece used in telescopes for viewing terrestrial objects, consisting of three, or usually four, lenses, so arranged as to present the image of the object viewed in an erect position. 

EYER:  One who eyes another. Gayton. 

EYEREACH:  The range or reach of the eye; eyeshot. "A seat in eyereach of him." B. Jonson.  EYESAINT; EYE-SAINT Eye"*saint`, n.  An object of interest to the eye; one wirehaired with the eyes. [Obs.] That's the eye-saint, I know, Among young gallants. Beau. & Fl. 

EYESALVE:  Ointment for the eye. 

EYESERVANT:  A servant who attends faithfully to his duty only when watched. 

EYESERVICE:  Service performed only under inspection, or the eye of an employer. Not with eyeservice, as menpleasers. Col. iii. 22. 

EYESHOT:  Range, reach, or glance of the eye; view; sight; as, to be out of eyeshot. Dryden. 

EYESIGHT:  Sight of the eye; the sense of seeing; view; observation. Josephus sets this down from his own eyesight. Bp. Wilkins. 

EYESORE:  Something offensive to the eye or sight; a blemish. Mordecai was an eyesore to Haman. L'Estrange.  EYESPLICE; EYE-SPLICE Eye"*splice`, n. (Naut.)  A splice formed by bending a rope's and back, and fastening it into the rope, forming a loop or eye. See Illust. under Splice.  EYESPOT; EYE-SPOT Eye"*spot`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) A simple visual organ found in many invertebrates, consisting of pigment cells covering a sensory nerve termination. (b) An eyelike spot of color.  EYESPOTTED; EYE-SPOTTED Eye"*spot`ted, a.  Marked with spots like eyes. Junno's bird, in her eye-spotted train. Spenser. 

EYESTALK:  One of the movable peduncles which, in the decapod Crustacea, bear the eyes at the tip. 

EYESTONE:  Eye agate. See under Eye. 

EYESTRING:  The tendon by which the eye is moved. Shak. 

EYET:  An island. See Eyot. 

EYETOOTH:  A canine tooth of the upper jaw. See Teeth. To cut one's eyeteeth, to become acute or knowing. [Colloq.] 

EYEWASH:  See Eyewater. 

EYEWATER:  A wash or lotion for application to the eyes. 

EYEWINK:  A wink; a token. Shak. 

EYEWINKER:  An eyelash. [A child's word.] 

EYEWITNESS:  One who sees a thing done; one who has ocular view anything. We . . . were eyewitnesses of his majesty. 2 Pet. i. 16. 

EYGHEN:  Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EYGHT:  An island. See Eyot. 

EYLE:  To ail. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EYLIAD:  See Eiliad.  EYNE; EYEN Eyne, or Ey"en, n.  Plural of eye; obsolete, or used only in poetry. Shak. With such a plaintive gaze their eyne Are fastened upwardly on mine. Mrs. Browning. 

EYOT:  A little island in a river or lake. See Ait. [Written also ait, ayt, eey, eyet, and eyght.] Blackstone. 

EYR:  Air. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

EYRA:  A wild cat (Felis eyra) ranging from southern Brazil to Texas. It is reddish yellow and about the size of the domestic cat, but with a more slender body and shorter legs. 

EYRE:  A journey in circuit of certain judges called justices in eyre (or in itinere).  Note: They were itinerant judges, who rode the circuit, holding courts in the different counties. 

EYREN:  See Ey, an egg.  EYRIE; EYRY Ey"rie, Ey"ry, n.; pl. Ey"ries. Etym: [See Aerie]  The nest of a bird of prey or other large bird that builds in a lofty place; aerie. The eagle and the stork On cliffs and cedar tops their eyries build. Milton. 

EYSELL:  Same as Eisel. [Obs.] Shak. 

F:  .  1. F is the sixth letter of the English alphabet, and a nonvocal consonant. Its form and sound are from the Latin. The Latin borrowed the form from the Greek digamma w consonant. The form and value of Greek letter came from the Phoenician, the ultimate source being probably Egyptian. Etymologically fis most closely related to p,k,v, and b; as in E. five, Gr. f, L. lupus, Gr. fox, vixen ; fragile, break ; fruit, brook, v. t.; E. bear, L. ferre. See Guide to Pronunciation, sq. root 178, 179, 188, 198, 230.  2. (Mus.)  The name of the fourth tone of the model scale, or scale of C. F sharp (F #) is a tone intermediate between F and G. F clef, the bass clef. See under Clef. 

FABACEOUS:  Having the nature of a bean; like a bean. 

FABELLA:  One of the small sesamoid bones situated behind the condyles of the femur, in some mammals. 

FABIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or in the manner of, the Roman general, Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus; cautious; dilatory; avoiding a decisive contest. Fabian policy, a policy like that of Fabius Maximus, who, by carefully avoiding decisive contests, foiled Hannibal, harassing his army by marches, countermarches, and ambuscades; a policy of delays and cautions. 

FABLE:  To compose fables; hence, to write or speak fiction ; to write or utter what is not true. "He Fables not." Shak. Vain now the tales which fabling poets tell. Prior. He fables, yet speaks truth. M. Arnold. 

FABLE:  To fiegn; to invent; to devise, and speak of, as true or real; to tell of falsely. The hell thou fablest. Milton. 

FABLER:  A writer of fables; a fabulist; a dealer in untruths or falsehoods. Br. Hall. 

FABLIAU:  One of the metrical tales of the Trouvères, or early poets of the north of France. 

FABRIC:  To frame; to built; to construct. [Obs.] "Fabric their mansions." J. Philips. 

FABRICANT:  One who fabricates; a manufacturer. Simmonds. 

FABRICATOR:  One who fabricates; one who constructs or makes. The fabricator of the works of Ossian. Mason. 

FABRICATRESS:  A woman who fabricates. 

FABRILE:  Pertaining to a workman, or to work in stone, metal, wood etc.; as, fabrile skill. 

FABULIST:  One who invents or writes fables. 

FABULIZE:  To invent, compose, or relate fables or fictions. G. S. Faber. 

FAC:  A large ornamental letter used, esp. by the early printers, at the commencement of the chapters and other divisions of a book. Brande & C. 

FACADE:  The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having some architectural pretensions. Thus a church is said to have its facade unfinished, though the interior may be in use. 

FACE:  Ten degrees in extent of a sign of the zodiac. Chaucer.  9. Maintenance of the countenance free from abashment or confusion; confidence; boldness; shamelessness; effrontery. This is the man that has the face to charge others with false citations. Tillotson.  10. Presence; sight; front; as in the phrases, before the face of, in the immediate presence of; in the face of, before, in, or against the front of; as, to fly in the face of danger; to the face of, directly to; from the face of, from the presenceof.  11. Mode of regard, whether favorable or unfavorable; favor or anger; mostly in Scriptural phrases. The Lord make his face to shine upon thee. Num. vi. 25. My face [favor] will I turn also from them. Ezek. vii. 22.  12. (Mining)  The end or wall of the tunnel, drift, or excavation, at which work is progressing or was last done.  13. (Com.)  The exact amount expressed on a bill, note, bond, or other mercantile paper, without any addition for interest or reduction for discount. McElrath.  Note: Face is used either adjectively or as part of a compound; as, face guard or face-guard; face cloth; face plan or face-plan; face hammer. Face ague (Med.), a form of neuralgia, characterized by acute lancinating pains returning at intervals, and by twinges in certain parts of the face, producing convulsive twitches in the corresponding muscles; -- called also tic douloureux.  -- Face card, one of a pack of playing cards on which a human face is represented; the king, queen, or jack.  -- Face cloth, a cloth laid over the face of a corpse.  -- Face guard, a mask with windows for the eyes, worn by workman exposed to great heat, or to flying particles of metal, stone, etc., as in glass works, foundries, etc.  -- Face hammer, a hammer having a flat face.  -- Face joint (Arch.), a joint in the face of a wall or other structure.  -- Face mite (Zoöll.), a small, elongated mite (Demdex folliculorum), parasitic in the hair follicles of the face.  -- Face mold, the templet or pattern by which carpenters, ect., outline the forms which are to be cut out from boards, sheet metal, ect.  -- Face plate. (a) (Turning) A plate attached to the spindle of a lathe, to which the work to be turned may be attached. (b) A covering plate for an object, to receive wear or shock. (c) A true plane for testing a dressed surface. Knight.  -- Face wheel. (Mach.) (a) A crown wheel. (b) A Wheel whose disk face is adapted for grinding and polishing; a lap. Cylinder face (Steam Engine), the flat part of a steam cylinder on which a slide valve moves.  -- Face of an anvil, its flat upper surface.  -- Face of a bastion (Fort.), the part between the salient and the shoulder angle.  -- Face of coal (Mining), the principal cleavage plane, at right angles to the stratification.  -- Face of a gun, the surface of metal at the muzzle.  -- Face of a place (Fort.), the front comprehended between the flanked angles of two neighboring bastions. Wilhelm.  -- Face of a square (Mil.), one of the sides of a battalion when formed in a square.  -- Face of a watch, clock, compass, card etc., the dial or graduated surface on which a pointer indicates the time of day, point of the compass, etc.  -- Face to face. (a) In the presence of each other; as, to bring the accuser and the accused face to face. (b) Without the interposition of any body or substance. "Now we see through a glass darkly; but then face to face." 1 Cor. xiii. 12. (c) With the faces or finished surfaces turned inward or toward one another; vis à vis; -- opposed to back to back.  -- To fly in the face of, to defy; to brave; to withstand.  -- To make a face, to distort the countenance; to make a grimace. Shak. 

FACE:  To make the surface of (anything) flat or smooth; to dress the face of (a stone, a casting, etc.); esp., in turning, to shape or smooth the flat surface of, as distinguished from the cylindrical surface.  8. To cause to turn or present a face or front, as in a particular direction. To face down, to put down by bold or impudent opposition. "He faced men down." Prior.  -- To face (a thing) out, to persist boldly or impudently in an assertion or in a line of conduct. "That thinks with oaths to face the matter out." Shak 

FACED:  Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced, two-faced. 

FACET:  A smooth circumscribed surface; as, the articular facet of a bone.  3. (Arch.)  The narrow plane surface between flutings of a column.  4. (Zoöl.)  One of the numerous small eyes which make up the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans. 

FACET:  To cut facets or small faces upon; as, to facet a diamond. 

FACETE:  Facetious; witty; humorous. [Archaic] "A facete discourse." Jer. Taylor. "How to interpose" with a small, smart remark, sentiment facete, or unctuous anecdote. Prof. Wilson. -- Fa*cete"ly, adv.  -- Fa*cete"ness, n. 

FACETED:  Having facets. 

FACETIAE:  Witty or humorous writings or saying; witticisms; merry conceits. 

FACETTE:  See Facet, n. 

FACEWORK:  The material of the outside or front side, as of a wall or building; facing. 

FACIA:  See Fascia. 

FACIAL:  Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, or nerve.  -- Fa"cial*ly, adv. Facial angle (Anat.), the angle, in a skull, included between a straight line (ab, in the illustrations), from the most prominent part of the forehead to the front efge of the upper jaw bone, and another (cd) from this point to the center of the external auditory opening. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic. 

FACIEND:  The multiplicand. See Facient,  2. 

FACIES:  The general aspect or habit of a species, or group of species, esp. with reference to its adaptation to its environment.  3. (Zoöl.)  The face of a bird, or the front of the head, excluding the bill. Facies Hippocratica. (Med.) See Hippocratic. 

FACILITATE:  To make easy or less difficult; to free from difficulty or impediment; to lessen the labor of; as, to facilitate the execution of a task. To invite and facilitate that line of proceeding which the times call for. I. Taylor. 

FACILITATION:  The act of facilitating or making easy. 

FACING:  The finishing of any face of a wall with material different from that of which it is chiefly composed, or the coating or material so used.  4. (Founding)  A powdered substance, as charcoal, bituminous coal, ect., applied to the face of a mold, or mixed with the sand that forms it, to give a fine smooth surface to the casting.  5. (Mil.) (a) pl.  The collar and cuffs of a military coat; -- commonly of a color different from that of the coat. (b) The movement of soldiers by turning on their heels to the right, left, or about; -- chiefly in the pl. Facing brick, front or pressed brick. 

FACINGLY:  In a facing manner or position. 

FACINOROUS:  Atrociously wicked. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  -- Fa*cin"o*rous*ness, n. [Obs.] 

FACOUND:  Speech; eloquence. [Obs.] Her facound eke full womanly and plain. Chaucer. 

FACSIMILE:  A copy of anything made, either so as to be deceptive or so as to give every part and detail of the original; an exact copy or likeness. Facsimile telegraph, a telegraphic apparatus reproducing messages in autograph. 

FACSIMILE:  , ( 

FACTION:  One of the divisions or parties of charioteers (distinguished by their colors) in the games of the circus.  2. A party, in political society, combined or acting in union, in opposition to the government, or state; -- usually applied to a minority, but it may be applied to a majority; a combination or clique of partisans of any kind, acting for their own interests, especially if greedy, clamorous, and reckless of the common good.  3. Tumult; discord; dissension. They remained at Newbury in great faction among themselves. Clarendon.  Syn.  -- Combination; clique; junto. See Cabal. 

FACTIONARY:  Belonging to a faction; being a partisan; taking sides. [Obs.] Always factionary on the party of your general. Shak. 

FACTIONER:  One of a faction. Abp. Bancroft. 

FACTIONIST:  One who promotes faction. 

FACTITIOUS:  Made by art, in distinction from what is produced by nature; artificial; sham; formed by, or adapted to, an artificial or conventional, in distinction from a natural, standard or rule; not natural; as, factitious cinnabar or jewels; a factitious taste.  -- Fac-ti"tious*ly, adv.  -- Fac*ti"tious-ness, n. He acquires a factitious propensity, he forms an incorrigible habit, of desultory reading. De Quincey.  Syn.  -- Unnatural.  -- Factitious, Unnatural. Anything is unnatural when it departs in any way from its simple or normal state; it is factitious when it is wrought out or wrought up by labor and effort, as, a factitious excitement. An unnatural demand for any article of merchandise is one which exceeds the ordinary rate of consumption; a factitious demand is one created by active exertions for the purpose. An unnatural alarm is one greater than the occasion requires; a factitious alarm is one wrought up with care and effort. 

FACTITIVE:  Pertaining to that relation which is proper when the act, as of a transitive verb, is not merely received by an object, but produces some change in the object, as when we say, He made the water wine. Sometimes the idea of activity in a verb or adjective involves in it a reference to an effect, in the way of causality, in the active voice on the immediate objects, and in the passive voice on the subject of such activity. This second object is called the factitive object. J. W. Gibbs. 

FACTIVE:  Making; having power to make. [Obs.] "You are . . . factive, not destructive." Bacon. 

FACTO:  In fact; by the act or fact. De facto. (Law) See De facto. 

FACTOR:  One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute; especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transacts business for others in commission; a commission merchant or consignee. He may be a home factor or a foreign factor. He may buy and sell in his own name, and he is intrusted with the possession and control of the goods; and in these respects he differs from a broker. Story. Wharton. My factor sends me word, a merchant's fled That owes me for a hundred tun of wine. Marlowe.  2. A steward or bailiff of an estate. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.  3. (Math.)  One of the elements or quantities which, when multiplied together, from a product.  4. One of the elements, circumstances, or influences which contribute to produce a result; a constituent. The materal and dynamical factors of nutrition. H. Spencer. 

FACTOR:  To resolve (a quantity) into its factors. 

FACTORAGE:  The allowance given to a factor, as a compensation for his services; -- called also a commission. 

FACTORESS:  A factor who is a woman. [R.] 

FACTORIAL:  Related to factorials. 

FACTORIAL:  A name given to the factors of a continued product when the former are derivable from one and the same function F(x) by successively imparting a constant increment or decrement h to the independent variable. Thus the product F(x).F(x + h).F(x + 2h) . . . F[x + (n-1)h] is called a factorial term, and its several factors take the name of factorials. Brande & C. (b) The product of the consecutive numbers from unity up to any given number. 

FACTORING:  The act of resolving into factors. 

FACTORSHIP:  The business of a factor. 

FACTOTUM:  A person employed to do all kinds of work or business. B. Jonson. 

FACTUAL:  Relating to, or containing, facts. [R.] 

FACTUM:  A man's own act and deed; particularly: (a) (Civil Law) Anything stated and made certain. (b) (Testamentary Law) The due execution of a will, including everything necessary to its validity.  2. (Mach.)  The product. See Facient, 2. 

FACTURE:  An invoice or bill of parcels. 

FACULAE:  Groups of small shining spots on the surface of the sun which are brighter than the other parts of the photosphere. They are generally seen in the neighborhood of the dark spots, and are supposed to be elevated portions of the photosphere. Newcomb. 

FACULAR:  Of or pertaining to the faculæ. R. A. Proctor. 

FACULTATIVE:  Having the power to live under different conditions; as, a facultative parasite, a plant which is normally saprophytic, but which may exist wholly or in part as a parasite; -- opposed to obligate.  3.  (Physiol.) Pertaining to a faculty or faculties.  In short, there is no facultative plurality in the mind; it is a single organ of true judgment for all purposes, cognitive or practical. J. Martineau. 

FACULTY:  The body of person to whom are intrusted the government and instruction of a college or university, or of one of its departments; the president, professors, and tutors in a college. Dean of faculty. See under Dean.  -- Faculty of advocates. (Scot.) See under Advocate.  Syn.  -- Talent; gift; endowment; dexterity; expertness; cleverness; readiness; ability; knack. 

FACUND:  Eloquent. [Archaic] 

FACUNDIOUS:  Eloquement; full of words. [Archaic] 

FACUNDITY:  Eloquence; readiness of speech. [Archaic] 

FAD:  A hobby ; freak; whim.  -- Fad"dist, n. It is your favorite fad to draw plans. G. Eliot. 

FADAISE:  A vapid or meaningless remark; a commonplace; nonsense. 

FADDLE:  To trifle; to toy.  -- v. t.  To fondle; to dandle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

FADE:  Weak; insipid; tasteless; commonplace. [R.] "Passages that are somewhat fade." Jeffrey. His masculine taste gave him a sense of something fade and ludicrous. De Quincey. 

FADE:  To cause to wither; to deprive of freshness or vigor; to wear away. No winter could his laurels fade. Dryden. 

FADED:  That has lost freshness, color, or brightness; grown dim. "His faded cheek." Milton. Where the faded moon Made a dim silver twilight. Keats. 

FADEDLY:  In a faded manner. A dull room fadedly furnished. Dickens. 

FADELESS:  Not liable to fade; unfading. 

FADER:  Father. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FADGE:  To fit; to suit; to agree. They shall be made, spite of antipathy, to fadge together. Milton. Well, Sir, how fadges the new design Wycherley. 

FADGE:  A small flat loaf or thick cake; also, a fagot. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

FADING:  Losing freshness, color, brightness, or vigor.  -- n.  Loss of color, freshness, or vigor.  -- Fad"ing*ly, adv.  -- Fad"ing*ness, n. 

FADING:  An Irish dance; also, the burden of a song. "Fading is a fine jig." [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

FADME:  A fathom. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FADY:  Faded. [R.] Shenstone. 

FAECAL:  See Fecal. 

FAECES:  Excrement; ordure; also, settlings; sediment after infusion or distillation. [Written also feces.] 

FAECULA:  See Fecula. 

FAERY:  Fairy. [Archaic] Spenser. 

FAFFLE:  To stammer. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

FAG:  A knot or coarse part in cloth. [Obs.] 

FAGGING:  Laborious drudgery; esp., the acting as a drudge for another at an English school. 

FAGOT:  A bassoon. See Fagotto.  4. A person hired to take the place of another at the muster of a company. [Eng.] Addison.  5. An old shriveled woman. [Slang, Eng.] Fagot iron, iron, in bars or masses, manufactured from fagots.  -- Fagot vote, the vote of a person who has been constituted a voter by being made a landholder, for party purposes. [Political cant, Eng.] 

FAGOT:  To make a fagot of; to bind together in a fagot or bundle; also, to collect promiscuously. Dryden. 

FAGOTTO:  The bassoon; -- so called from being divided into parts for ease of carriage, making, as it were, a small fagot. 

FAHAM:  The leaves of an orchid (Angraecum fragrans), of the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius, used (in France) as a substitute for Chinese tea. 

FAHLBAND:  A stratum in crystalline rock, containing metallic sulphides. Raymond.  FAHLERZ; FAHLBAND Fahl"erz, Fahl"band, n. Etym: [G. fahlerz; fahl dun-colored, fallow + erz ore.] (Min.)  Same as Tetrahedrite. 

FAHLUNITE:  A hydration of iolite. 

FAHRENHEIT:  Conforming to the scale used by Gabriel Daniel Fahrenheit in the graduation of his thermometer; of or relating to Fahrenheit's thermometric scale.  -- n.  The Fahrenheit termometer or scale.  Note: The Fahrenheit thermometer is so graduated that the freezing point of water is at 32 degrees above the zero of its scale, and the boiling point at 212 degrees above. It is commonly used in the United States and in England. 

FAIENCE:  Glazed earthenware; esp., that which is decorated in color. 

FAILANCE:  Fault; failure; omission. [Obs.] Bp. Fell. 

FAILLE:  A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy. 

FAIN:  With joy; gladly; -- with wold. He would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat. Luke xv. 16. Fain Would I woo her, yet I dare not. Shak. 

FAIN:  To be glad ; to wish or desire. [Obs.] Whoso fair thing does fain to see. Spencer.  FAINEANCE; FAINEANCY Fai"ne*ance, Fai"ne*an*cy, n. [Cf. OF. faineance. See Fainéant.]  Do-nothingness; inactivity; indolence.  The mask of sneering faineance was gone. C. Kingsley. 

FAINEANT:  Doing nothing; shiftless.  -- n.  A do-nothing; an idle fellow; a sluggard. Sir W. Scott.  FAINEANT DEITY Fainéant deity.  A deity recognized as real but conceived as not acting in human affairs, hence not worshiped. 

FAINT:  The act of fainting, or the state of one who has fainted; a swoon. [R.] See Fainting, n. The saint, Who propped the Virgin in her faint. Sir W. Scott. 

FAINT:  To cause to faint or become dispirited; to depress; to weaken. [Obs.] It faints me to think what follows. Shak.  FAINTHEARTED; FAINT-HEARTED Faint"*heart`ed, a.  Wanting in courage; depressed by fear; easily discouraged or frightened; cowardly; timorous; dejected. Fear not, neither be faint-hearted. Is. vii. 4. -- Faint"*heart`ed*ly, adv.  -- Faint"*heart`ed*ness, n. 

FAINTING:  Syncope, or loss of consciousness owing to a sudden arrest of the blood supply to the brain, the face becoming pallid, the respiration feeble, and the heat's beat weak. Fainting fit, a fainting or swoon; syncope. [Colloq.] 

FAINTISH:  Slightly faint; somewhat faint.  -- Faint"ish*ness, n. 

FAINTLING:  Timorous; feeble-minded. [Obs.] "A fainting, silly creature." Arbuthnot. 

FAINTLY:  In a faint, weak, or timidmanner. 

FAINTS:  The impure spirit which comes over first and last in the distillation of whisky; -- the former being called the strong faints, and the latter, which is much more abundant, the weak faints. This crude spirit is much impregnated with fusel oil. Ure. 

FAINTY:  Feeble; languid. [R.] Dryden. 

FAIR:  Without sudden change of direction or curvature; smooth; fowing; -- said of the figure of a vessel, and of surfaces, water lines, and other lines.  7. Characterized by frankness, honesty, impartiality, or candor; open; upright; free from suspicion or bias; equitable; just; -- said of persons, character, or conduct; as, a fair man; fair dealing; a fair statement. "I would call it fair play." Shak.  8. Pleasing; favorable; inspiring hope and confidence; -- said of words, promises, etc. When fair words and good counsel will not prevail on us, we must be frighted into our duty. L' Estrange.  9. Distinct; legible; as, fair handwriting.  10. Free from any marked characteristic; average; middling; as, a fair specimen. The news is very fair and good, my lord. Shak. Fair ball. (Baseball) (a) A ball passing over the home base at the height called for by the batsman, and delivered by the pitcher while wholly within the lines of his position and facing the batsman. (b) A batted ball that falls inside the foul lines; -- called also a fair hit.  -- Fair maid. (Zoöl.) (a) The European pilchard (Clupea pilchardus) when dried. (b) The southern scup (Stenotomus Gardeni). [Virginia] -- Fair one, a handsome woman; a beauty, -- Fair play, equitable or impartial treatment; a fair or equal chance; justice.  -- From fair to middling, passable; tolerable. [Colloq.] -- The fair sex, the female sex.  Syn.  -- Candid; open; frank; ingenuous; clear; honest; equitable; impartial; reasonable. See Candid. 

FAIR:  Clearly; openly; frankly; civilly; honestly; favorably; auspiciously; agreeably. Fair and square, justly; honestly; equitably; impartially. [Colloq.] -- To bid fair. See under Bid.  -- To speak fair, to address with courtesy and frankness. [Archaic] 

FAIR:  To make smooth and flowing, as a vessel's lines. 

FAIR:  A catch made by a player on side who makes a prescribed signal that he will not attempt to advance the ball when caught. He must not then be interfered with.  FAIR-HAIRED Fair"-haired`, a.  Having fair or light-colored hair. 

FAIRHOOD:  Fairness; beauty. [Obs.] Foxe. 

FAIRILY:  In the manner of a fairy. Numerous as shadows haunting fairily The brain. Keats. 

FAIRING:  A present; originally, one given or purchased at a fair. Gay. Fairing box, a box receiving savings or small sums of money. Hannah More. 

FAIRISH:  Tolerably fair. [Colloq.] W. D. Howells.  FAIR-LEADER Fair"-lead`er, n. (Naut.)  A block, or ring, serving as a guide for the running rigging or for any rope. 

FAIRLY:  Unprejudiced; just; judicial; honest.  -- Fair"*mind`ed*ness, n.  FAIR-NATURED Fair"-na`tured, a.  Well-disposed. "A fair-natured prince." Ford. 

FAIRNESS:  The state of being fair, or free form spots or stains, as of the skin; honesty, as of dealing; candor, as of an argument, etc.  FAIR-SPOKEN Fair"-spo`ken, a.  Using fair speech, or uttered with fairness; bland; civil; courteous; plausible. "A marvelous fair-spoken man." Hooker. 

FAIRWAY:  The navigable part of a river, bay, etc., through which vessels enter or depart; the part of a harbor or channel ehich is kept open and unobstructed for the passage of vessels. Totten. the rough.  FAIR-WEATHER Fair"-weath`er, a.  1. Made or done in pleasant weather, or in circumstances involving but little exposure or sacrifice; as, a fair-weather voyage. Pope.  2. Appearing only when times or circumstances are prosperous; as, a fair-weather friend. Fair-weather sailor, a make-believe or inexperienced sailor; -- the nautical equivalent of carpet knight.  FAIR-WORLD Fair"-world` n.  State of prosperity. [Obs.] They think it was never fair-world with them since. Milton. 

FAIRYLAND:  The imaginary land or abode of fairies. 

FAIRYLIKE:  Resembling a fairy, or what is made or done be fairies; as, fairylike music. 

FAITH:  By my faith; in truth; verily. 

FAITHED:  Having faith or a faith; honest; sincere. [Obs.] "Make thy words faithed." Shak. 

FAITOUR:  A doer or actor; particularly, an evil doer; a scoundrel. [Obs.] Lo! faitour, there thy meed unto thee take. Spenser. 

FAKE:  One of the circles or windings of a cable or hawser, as it lies in a coil; a single turn or coil. 

FAKE:  To coil (a rope, line, or hawser), by winding alternately in opposite directions, in layers usually of zigzag or figure of eight form,, to prevent twisting when running out. Faking box, a box in which a long rope is faked; used in the life-saving service for a line attached to a shot. 

FAKE:  A trick; a swindle. [Slang] 

FAKER:  One who fakes something, as a thief, a peddler of petty things, a workman who dresses things up, etc. [Slang] 

FAKIR:  An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk. [Written also faquir anf fakeer.] 

FALANAKA:  A viverrine mammal of Madagascar (Eupleres Goudotii), allied to the civet; -- called also Falanouc. 

FALCADE:  The action of a horse, when he throws himself on his haunches two or three times, bending himself, as it were, in very quick curvets. Harris.  FALCATE; FALCATED Fal"cate, Fal"ca*ted, a. Etym: [L. falcatus, fr. falx, falcis, a sickle or scythe.]  Hooked or bent like a sickle; as, a falcate leaf; a falcate claw; -- said also of the moon, or a planet, when horned or crescent- formed. 

FALCATION:  The state of being falcate; a bend in the form of a sickle. Sir T. Browne. 

FALCER:  One of the mandibles of a spider. 

FALCIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to Publius Falcidius, a Roman tribune. Falcidian law (Civil Law), a law by which a testator was obliged to leave at least a fourth of his estate to the heir. Burrill. 

FALCIFORM:  Having the shape of a scithe or sickle; resembling a reaping hook; as, the falciform ligatment of the liver. 

FALCON:  An ancient form of cannon. Chanting falcon. (Zoöl.) See under Chanting. 

FALCONER:  A person who breeds or trains hawks for taking birds or game; one who follows the sport of fowling with hawks. Johnson. 

FALCONGENTIL:  The female or young of the goshawk (Astur palumbarius). 

FALCONINE:  Like a falcon or hawk; belonging to the Falconidæ 

FALCULA:  A curved and sharp-pointed claw. 

FALCULATE:  Curved and sharppointed, like a falcula, or claw of a falcon. 

FALDAGE:  A privilege of setting up, and moving about, folds for sheep, in any fields within manors, in order to manure them; -- often reserved to himself by the lord of the manor. Spelman. 

FALDFEE:  A fee or rent paid by a tenant for the privilege of faldage on his own ground. Blount. 

FALDING:  A frieze or rough-napped cloth. [Obs.] 

FALDISTORY:  The throne or seat of a bishop within the chancel. [Obs.] 

FALDSTOOL:  A folding stool, or portable seat, made to fold up in the manner of a camo stool. It was formerly placed in the choir for a bishop, when he offciated in any but his own cathedral church. Fairholt.  Note: In the modern practice of the Church of England, the term faldstool is given to the reading desk from which the litany is read. This esage is a relic of the ancient use of a lectern folding like a camp stool. 

FALERNIAN:  Of or pertaining to Mount Falernus, in Italy; as, Falernianwine. 

FALK:  The razorbill. [Written also falc, and faik.] [Prov. Eng.] 

FALLACIOUS:  Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted to deceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning.  -- Fal*la"cious*ly, adv. -Fal*la"cious*ness, n. 

FALLACY:  An argument, or apparent argument, which professes to be decisive of the matter at issue, while in reality it is not; a sophism.  Syn.  -- Deception; deceit; mistake.  -- Fallacy, Sophistry. A fallacy is an argument which professes to be decisive, but in reality is not; sophistry is also false reasoning, but of so specious and subtle a kind as to render it difficult to expose its fallacy. Many fallacies are obvious, but the evil of sophistry lies in its consummate art. "Men are apt to suffer their minds to be misled by fallacies which gratify their passions. Many persons have obscured and confounded the nature of things by their wretched sophistry; though an act be never so sinful, they will strip it of its guilt." South.  FALLALS; FAL-LALS Fal"*lals`, n.pl.  Gay ornaments; frippery; gewgaws. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

FALLAX:  Cavillation; a caviling. [Obs.] Cranmer. 

FALLEN:  Dropped; prostrate; degraded; ruined; decreased; dead. Some ruined temple or fallen monument. Rogers. 

FALLENCY:  An exception. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

FALLER:  A part which acts by falling, as a stamp in a fulling mill, or the device in a spinning machine to arrest motion when a thread breaks. 

FALLFISH:  A fresh-water fish of the United States (Semotilus bullaris); - - called also silver chub, and Shiner. The name is also applied to other allied species. 

FALLIBILITY:  The state of being fallible; liability to deceive or to be deceived; as, the fallibity of an argument or of an adviser. 

FALLIBLE:  Liable to fail, mistake, or err; liable to deceive or to be deceived; as, all men are fallible; our opinions and hopes are fallible. 

FALLIBLY:  In a fallible manner. 

FALLING:  from Fall, v. i. Falling away, Falling off, etc. See To fall away, To fall off, etc., under Fall, v. i.  -- Falling band, the plain, broad, linen collar turning down over the doublet, worn in the early part of the 17th century.  -- Falling sickness (Med.), epilepsy. Shak.  -- Falling star. (Astron.) See Shooting star.  -- Falling stone, a stone falling through the atmosphere; a meteorite; an aërolite.  -- Falling tide, the ebb tide.  -- Falling weather, a rainy season. [Colloq.] Bartlett. 

FALLOPIAN:  Pertaining to, or discovered by, Fallopius; as, the Fallopian tubes or oviducts, the ducts or canals which conduct the ova from the ovaries to the uterus. 

FALLOW:  Left untilled or unsowed after plowing; uncultivated; as, fallow ground. Fallow chat, Fallow finch (Zoöl.), a small European bird, the wheatear (Saxicola ænanthe). See Wheatear. 

FALLOW:  To plow, harrow, and break up, as land, without seeding, for the purpose of destroying weeds and insects, and rendering it mellow; as, it is profitable to fallow cold, strong, clayey land.  FALLOW DEER Fal"low deer`. Etym: [So called from its fallow or pale yellow color.] (Zoöl.)  A European species of deer (Cervus dama), much smaller than the red deer. In summer both sexes are spotted with white. It is common in England, where it is often domesticated in the parks. 

FALLOWIST:  One who favors the practice of fallowing land. [R.] Sinclair. 

FALLOWNESS:  A well or opening, through the successive floors of a warehouse or manufactory, through which goods are raised or lowered. [U.S.] Bartlett. 

FALSARY:  A falsifier of evidence. [Obs.] Sheldon. 

FALSE:  Not in tune. False arch (Arch.), a member having the appearance of an arch, though not of arch construction.  -- False attic, an architectural erection above the main cornice, concealing a roof, but not having windows or inclosing rooms.  -- False bearing, any bearing which is not directly upon a vertical support; thus, the weight carried by a corbel has a false bearing.  -- False cadence, an imperfect or interrupted cadence.  -- False conception (Med.), an abnormal conception in which a mole, or misshapen fleshy mass, is produced instead of a properly organized fetus.  -- False croup (Med.), a spasmodic affection of the larynx attended with the symptoms of membranous croup, but unassociated with the deposit of a fibrinous membrane.  -- False door or window (Arch.), the representation of a door or window, inserted to complete a series of doors or windows or to give symmetry.  -- False fire, a combustible carried by vessels of war, chiefly for signaling, but sometimes burned for the purpose of deceiving an enemy; also, a light on shore for decoying a vessel to destruction.  -- False galena. See Blende.  -- False imprisonment (Law), the arrest and imprisonment of a person without warrant or cause, or contrary to law; or the unlawful detaining of a person in custody.  -- False keel (Naut.), the timber below the main keel, used to serve both as a protection and to increase the shio's lateral resistance.  -- False key, a picklock.  -- False leg. (Zoöl.) See Proleg.  -- False membrane (Med.), the fibrinous deposit formed in croup and diphtheria, and resembling in appearance an animal membrane.  -- False papers (Naut.), documents carried by a ship giving false representations respecting her cargo, destination, ect., for the purpose of deceiving.  -- False passage (Surg.), an unnatural passage leading off from a natural canal, such as the urethra, and produced usually by the unskillful introduction of instruments.  -- False personation (Law), the intentional false assumption of the name and personality of another.  -- False pretenses (Law), false representations concerning past or present facts and events, for the purpose of defrauding another.  -- False rail (Naut.), a thin piece of timber placed on top of the head rail to strengthen it.  -- False relation (Mus.), a progression in harmony, in which a certain note in a chord appears in the next chord prefixed by a flat or sharp.  -- False return (Law), an untrue return made to a process by the officer to whom it was delivered for execution.  -- False ribs (Anat.), the asternal rebs, of which there are five pairs in man.  -- False roof (Arch.), the space between the upper ceiling and the roof. Oxford Gloss.  -- False token, a false mark or other symbol, used for fraudulent purposes.  -- False scorpion (Zoöl.), any arachnid of the genus Chelifer. See Book scorpion.  -- False tack (Naut.), a coming up into the wind and filling away again on the same tack.  -- False vampire (Zoöl.), the Vampyrus spectrum of South America, formerly erroneously supposed to have blood-sucking habits; -- called also vampire, and ghost vampire. The genuine blood-sucking bats belong to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire.  -- False window. (Arch.) See False door, above.  -- False wing. (Zoöl.) See Alula, and Bastard wing, under Bastard.  -- False works (Civil Engin.), construction works to facilitate the erection of the main work, as scaffolding, bridge centering, etc. 

FALSE:  Not truly; not honestly; falsely. "You play me false." Shak. 

FALSE:  Hypocritical. Shak.  FALSE-HEART False"-heart`, a.  False-hearted. Shak.  FALSE-HEARTED False"-heart`ed, a.  Hollow or unsound at the core; treacherous; deceitful; perfidious. Bacon.  -- False"*heart`ed*ness, n. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

FALSELY:  In a false manner; erroneously; not truly; perfidiously or treacherously. "O falsely, falsely murdered." Shak. Oppositions of science, falsely so called. 1 Tim. vi. 20. Will ye steal, murder . . . and swear falsely Jer. vii. 9. 

FALSENESS:  The state of being false; contrariety to the fact; inaccuracy; want of integrity or uprightness; double dealing; unfaithfulness; treachery; perfidy; as, the falseness of a report, a drawing, or a singer's notes; the falseness of a man, or of his word. 

FALSER:  A deceiver. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FALSETTO:  A false or artificial voice; that voice in a man which lies above his natural voice; the male counter tenor or alto voice. See Head voice, under Voice. 

FALSICRIMEN:  The crime of falsifying.  Note: This term in the Roman law included not only forgery, but every species of fraud and deceit. It never has been used in so extensive a sense in modern common law, in which its predominant significance is forgery, though it also includes perjury and offenses of a like character. Burrill. Greenleaf. 

FALSIFIABLE:  Capable of being falsified, counterfeited, or corrupted. Johnson. 

FALSIFICATION:  The showing an item of charge in an account to be wrong. Story. 

FALSIFICATOR:  A falsifier. Bp. Morton. 

FALSIFIER:  One who falsifies, or gives to a thing a deceptive appearance; a liar. 

FALSIFY:  To avoid or defeat; to prove false, as a judgment. Blackstone.  7. (Equity)  To show, in accounting, (an inem of charge inserted in an account) to be wrong. Story. Daniell.  8. To make false by multilation or addition; to tamper with; as, to falsify a record or document. 

FALSIFY:  To tell lies; to violate the truth. It is absolutely and universally unlawful to lie and falsify. South. 

FALSISM:  That which is evidently false; an assertion or statement the falsity of which is plainly apparent; -- opposed to truism. 

FALTER:  To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

FALTER:  To utter with hesitation, or in a broken, trembling, or weak manner. And here he faltered forth his last farewell. Byron. Mde me most happy, faltering "I am thine." Tennyson. 

FALTER:  Hesitation; trembling; feebleness; an uncertain or broken sound; as, a slight falter in her voice. The falter of an idle shepherd's pipe. Lowell. 

FALTERING:  Hesitating; trembling. "With faltering speech." Milton.  -- n.  Falter; halting; hesitation.  -- Fal"ter*ing*ly, adv. 

FALUNS:  A series of strata, of the Middle Tertiary period, of France, abounding in shells, and used by Lyell as the type of his Miocene subdivision. 

FALWE:  Fallow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FALX:  A curved fold or process of the dura mater or the peritoneum; esp., one of the partitionlike folds of the dura mater which extend into the great fissures of the brain. 

FAMBLE:  To stammer. [Obs.] Nares. 

FAMBLE:  A hand [Slang & Obs.] "We clap our fambles." Beau. & Fl. 

FAMELESS:  Without fame or renown.  -- Fame"less*ly, adv. 

FAMILIAR:  A confidential officer employed in the service of the tribunal, especially in apprehending and imprisoning the accused. 

FAMILIARIZATION:  The act or process of making familiar; the result of becoming familiar; as, familiarization with scenes of blood. 

FAMILIARLY:  In a familiar manner. 

FAMILIARNESS:  Familiarity. [R.] 

FAMILIARY:  Of or pertaining to a family or household; domestic. [Obs.] Milton. 

FAMILISM:  The tenets of the Familists. Milton. 

FAMILIST:  One of afanatical Antinomian sect originating in Holland, and existing in England about 1580, called the Family of Love, who held that religion consists wholly in love. 

FAMILISTERY:  A community in which many persons unite as in one family, and are regulated by certain communistic laws and customs.  FAMILISTIC; FAMILISTICAL Fam`i*listic, Fam`i*lis"tic*al, a.  Pertaining to Familists. Baxter. 

FAMILY:  A groupe of organisms, either animal or vegetable, related by certain points of resemblance in structure or development, more comprehensive than a genus, because it is usually based on fewer or less pronounced points of likeness. In zoölogy a family is less comprehesive than an order; in botany it is often considered the same thing as an order. Family circle. See under Circle.  -- Family man. (a) A man who has a family; esp., one who has a wife and children living with him andd dependent upon him. (b) A man of domestic habits. "The Jews are generally, when married, most exemplary family men." Mayhew.  -- Family of curves or surfaces (Geom.), a group of curves or surfaces derived from a single equation.  -- In a family way, like one belonging to the family. "Why don't we ask him and his ladies to come over in a family way, and dine with some other plain country gentlefolks" Thackeray.  -- In the family way, pregnant. [Colloq.] 

FAMINE:  General scarcity of food; dearth; a want of provisions; destitution. "Worn with famine." Milton. There was a famine in the land. Gen. xxvi. 1. Famine fever (Med.), typhus fever. 

FAMISHMENT:  State of being famished. 

FAMOSITY:  The state or quality of being famous. [Obs.] Johnson. 

FAMOUS:  Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of; distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense, chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition, for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate. Famous for a scolding tongue. Shak.  Syn.  -- Noted; remarkable; signal; conspicuous; celebrated; renowned; illustrious; eminent; transcendent; excellent.  -- Famous, Renowned, Illustrious. Famous is applied to a person or thing widely spoken of as extraordinary; renowned is applied to those who are named again and again with honor; illustrious, to those who have dazzled the world by the splendor of their deeds or their virtues. See Distinguished. 

FAMOUSED:  Renowned. [Obs.] Shak. 

FAMOUSLY:  In a famous manner; in a distinguished degree; greatly; splendidly. Then this land was famously enriched With politic grave counsel. Shak. 

FAMOUSNESS:  The state of being famous. 

FAMULAR:  Domestic; familiar. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FAMULATE:  To serve. [Obs.] 

FAMULIST:  A collegian of inferior rank or position, corresponding to the sizar at Cambridge. [Oxford Univ., Eng.] 

FANAL:  A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light. 

FANATIC:  Pertaining to, or indicating, fanaticism; extravagant in opinions; ultra; unreasonable; excessively enthusiastic, especially on religious subjects; as, fanatic zeal; fanatic notions. But Faith, fanatic Faith, once wedded fast To some dear falsehood, hugs it to the last. T. Moore. 

FANATIC:  A person affected by excessive enthusiasm, particularly on religious subjects; one who indulges wild and extravagant notions of religion. There is a new word, coined within few months, called fanatics, which, by the close stickling thereof, seemeth well cut out and proportioned to signify what is meant thereby, even the sectaries of our age. Fuller (1660). Fanatics are governed rather by imagination than by judgment. Stowe. 

FANATICAL:  Characteristic of, or relating to, fanaticism; fanatic. - Fa*nat"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Fa*nat"ic*al*ness, n. 

FANATICISM:  Excessive enthusiasm, unreasoning zeal, or wild and extravagant notions, on any subject, especially religion; religious frenzy.  Syn.  -- See Superstition. 

FANATICIZE:  To cause to become a fanatic. 

FANATISM:  Fanaticism. [R.] Gibbon. 

FANCIED:  Formed or conceived by the fancy; unreal; as, a fancied wrong. 

FANCILESS:  Having no fancy; without ideas or imagination. [R.] A pert or bluff important wight, Whose brain is fanciless, whose blood is white. Armstrong. 

FANCY:  Free from the power of love. "In maiden meditation, fancy- free." Shak. 

FANCYMONGER:  A lovemonger; a whimsical lover. [Obs.] Shak.  FANCY-SICK Fan"cy-sick`, a.  Love-sick. Shak. 

FANCYWORK:  Ornamental work with a needle or hook, as embroidery, crocheting, netting, etc. 

FAND:  imp. of Find. Spenser. 

FANE:  A temple; a place consecrated to religion; a church. [Poet.] Such to this British Isle, her Christian fanes. Wordsworth. 

FANE:  A weathercock. [Obs.] 

FANEGA:  A dry measure in Spain and Spanish America, varying from 1 De Colange. 

FANFARE:  A flourish of trumpets, as in coming into the lists, etc.; also, a short and lively air performed on hunting horns during the chase. The fanfare announcing the arrival of the various Christian princes. Sir W. Scott. 

FANFARON:  A bully; a hector; a swaggerer; an empty boaster. [R.] Dryden. 

FANFARONADE:  A swaggering; vain boasting; ostentation; a bluster. Swift. 

FANG:  The tusk of an animal, by which the prey is seized and held or torn; a long pointed tooth; esp., one of the usually erectile, venomous teeth of serpents. Also, one of the falcers of a spider. Since I am a dog, beware my fangs. Shak.  2. Any shoot or other thing by which hold is taken. The protuberant fangs of the yucca. Evelyn.  3. (Anat.)  The root, or one of the branches of the root, of a tooth. See Tooth.  4. (Mining)  A niche in the side of an adit or shaft, for an air course. Knight.  5. (Mech.)  A projecting tooth or prong, as in a part of a lock, or the plate of a belt clamp, or the end of a tool, as a chisel, where it enters the handle.  6. (Naut.) (a) The valve of a pump box. (b) A bend or loop of a rope. In a fang, fast entangled.  -- To lose the fang, said of a pump when the water has gone out; hence: To fang a pump, to supply it with the water necessary to make it operate. [Scot.] 

FANGED:  Having fangs or tusks; as, a fanged adder. Also used figuratively. 

FANGLE:  Something new-fashioned; a foolish innovation; a gewgaw; a trifling ornament. 

FANGLE:  To fashion. [Obs.] To control and new fangle the Scripture. Milton. 

FANGLED:  New made; hence, gaudy; showy; vainly decorated. [Obs., except with the prefix new.] See Newfangled. "Our fangled world." Shak. 

FANGLENESS:  Quality of being fangled. [Obs.] He them in new fangleness did pass. Spenser. 

FANGLESS:  Destitute of fangs or tusks. "A fangless lion." Shak. 

FANGOT:  A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundred weight. 

FANION:  A small flag sometimes carried at the head of the baggage of a brigade. [Obs.]  2. A small flag for marking the stations in surveying. 

FANLIKE:  Resembling a fan; -- specifically (Bot.), folded up like a fan, as certain leaves; plicate. 

FANNEL:  Same as Fanon. 

FANNER:  Having the nerves or veins arranged in a radiating manner; -- said of certain leaves, and of the winfs of some insects. 

FANON:  A term applied to various articles, as: (a) A peculiar striped scarf worn by the pope at mass, and by eastern bishops. (b) A maniple. [Written also fannel, phanon, etc.]  FAN PALM Fan" palm`. (Bot.)  Any palm tree having fan-shaped or radiate leaves; as the Chamærops humilis of Southern Europe; the species of Sabal and Thrinax in the West Indies, Florida, etc.; and especially the great talipot tree (Corypha umbraculifera) of Ceylon and Malaya. The leaves of the latter are often eighteen feet long and fourteen wide, and are used for umbrellas, tents, and roofs. When cut up, they are used for books and manuscripts. 

FANTAIL:  Having an expanded, or fan-shaped, tail; as, the fan-tailed pigeon.  FAN-TAN Fan"-tan` (fan"tan`), n. [Chinese (of Canton) in an-tan-kun gambling house.]  1. A Chinese gambling game in which coins or other small objects are placed upon a table, usually under a cup, and the players bet as to what remainder will be left when the sum of the counters is divided by four.  2.  A game with playing cards in which the cards are played in sequences upon the table, the one who first gets rid of his cards being the winner. 

FANTASIA:  A continuous composition, not divided into what are called movements, or governed by the ordinary rules of musical design, but in which the author's fancy roves unrestricted by set form. 

FANTASIED:  Filled with fancies or imaginations. [Obs.] Shak. 

FANTASM:  Same as Phantasm. 

FANTAST:  One whose manners or ideas are fantastic. [R.] Coleridge. 

FANTASTIC:  A person given to fantastic dress, manners, etc.; an eccentric person; a fop. Milton. Our fantastics, who, having a fine watch, take all ocasions to drow it out to be seen. Fuller. 

FANTASTICAL:  Fanciful; unreal; whimsical; capricious; fantastic. 

FANTASTICALITY:  Fantastically. [Obs.] 

FANTASTICALLY:  In a fantastic manner. the letter A, in scarlet, fantastically embroidered with gold thread, upon her bosom. Hawthorne.  FANTASTIC-ALNESS Fan*tas"tic-al*ness, n.  The quality of being fantastic. 

FANTASTICISM:  The quality of being fantastical; fancifulness; whimsicality. Ruskin. 

FANTASTICLY:  Fantastically. [Obs.] 

FANTASTICNESS:  Fantasticalness. [Obs.] 

FANTASTICO:  A fantastic. [Obs.] Shak. 

FANTASY:  To have a fancy for; to be pleased with; to like; to fancy. [Obs.] Cavendish. Which he doth most fantasy. Robynson (More's Utopia).  FANTIGUE; FANTIQUE Fan*tigue", Fan*tique", n. [Written also fanteague, fanteeg, etc.] [Cf. Fantod.]  State of worry or excitment; fidget; ill humor. [Prov. Eng.] Dickens. 

FANTOCCINI:  Puppets caused to perform evolutions or dramatic scenes by means of machinery; also, the representations in which they are used.  FANTOD; FANTAD Fan"tod, Fan"tad, n. [Cf. Fantigue.]  State of worry or excitement; fidget; fuss; also, indisposition; pet; sulks. [Slang] 

FANTOM:  See Phantom. Fantom corn, phantom corn. Grose. 

FAP:  Fuddled. [Obs.] Shak. 

FAQUIR:  See Fakir. 

FAR:  A young pig, or a litter of pigs. 

FAR:  A going out of the way; a digression. [Obs.] Fuller. 

FARAD:  The standard unit of electrical capacity; the capacity of a condenser whose charge, having an electro-motive force of one volt, is equal to the amount of electricity which, with the same electromotive force, passes through one ohm in one second; the capacity, which, charged with one coulomb, gives an electro-motive force of one volt. 

FARADIC:  Of or pertaining to Michael Faraday, the distinguished electrician; -- applied especially to induced currents of electricity, as produced by certain forms of inductive apparatus, on account of Faraday's investigations of their laws.  FARADISM; FARADIZATION Far"a*dism, Far`a*di*za"tion, n. (Med.)  The treatment with faradic or induced currents of electricity for remedial purposes. 

FARADIZE:  To stimulate with, or subject to, faradic, or inducted, electric currents. --Far"a*diz`er (#), n. 

FARAND:  See Farrand, n. 

FARANDAMS:  A fabrik made of silk and wool or hair. Simmonds. 

FARANDOLE:  A rapid dance in six-eight time in which a large number join hands and dance in various figures, sometimes moving from room to room. It originated in Provence.  I have pictured them dancing a sort of farandole. W. D. Howells. 

FARANTLY:  Orderly; comely; respectable. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

FARCE:  Stuffing, or mixture of viands, like that used on dressing a fowl; forcemeat.  2. A low style of comedy; a dramatic composition marked by low humor, generally written with little regard to regularity or method, and abounding with ludicrous incidents and expressions. Farce is that in poetry which "grotesque" is in a picture: the persons and action of a farce are all unnatural, and the manners false. Dryden.  3. Ridiculous or empty show; as, a mere farce. "The farce of state." Pope. 

FARCEMENT:  Stuffing; forcemeat. [Obs.] They spoil a good dish with . . . unsavory farcements. Feltham. 

FARCICAL:  Pertaining to farce; appropriated to farce; ludicrous; unnatural; unreal. They deny the characters to be farcical, because they are Gay. -- Far"ci*cal*ly, adv. -Far"ci*cal*ness, n. 

FARCICAL:  Of or pertaining to the disease called farcy. See Farcy, n. 

FARCILITE:  Pudding stone. [Obs.] Kirwan.  FARCIMEN; FARCIN Far"ci*men, Far"cin, n. (Far.)  Same as Farcy. 

FARCING:  Stuffing; forcemeat. 

FARCTATE:  Stuffed; filled solid; as, a farctate leaf, stem, or pericarp; -- opposed to tubular or hollow. [Obs.] 

FARCY:  A contagious disease of horses, associated with painful ulcerating enlargements, esp. upon the head and limbs. It is of the same nature as glanders, and is often fatal. Called also farcin, and farcimen.  Note: Farcy, although more common in horses, is communicable to other animals and to human beings. Farcy bud, a hard, prominent swelling occurrinng upon the cutaneous surface in farcy, due to the obstruction and inflammation of the lymphatic vessels, and followed by ulceration. Youatt. 

FARD:  Paint used on the face. [Obs.] "Painted with French fard." J. Whitaker. 

FARD:  To paint; -- said esp. of one's face. [Obs.] Shenstone. 

FARDAGE:  See Dunnage. 

FARDEL:  A bundle or little pack; hence, a burden. [Obs.] Shak. A fardel of never-ending misery and suspense. Marryat. 

FARDEL:  To make up in fardels. [Obs.] Fuller.  FARDING-BAG Far"ding-bag`, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin; cf. Fardel.]  The upper stomach of a cow, or other ruminant animal; the rumen. 

FARDINGDALE:  A farthingale. [Obs.] 

FARDINGDEAL:  The fourth part of an acre of land. [Obs.] [Written also farding dale, fardingale, etc.] 

FAREN:  p. p. of Fare, v. i. Chaucer. 

FAREWELL:  Go well; good-by; adieu; -- originally applied to a person departing, but by custom now applied both to those who depart and those who remain. It is often separated by the pronoun; as, fare you well; and is sometimes used as an expression of separation only; as, farewell the year; farewell, ye sweet groves; that is, I bid you farewell. So farewell hope, and with hope, farewell fear. Milton. Fare thee well! and if forever, Still forever fare thee well. Byron.  Note: The primary accent is sometimes placed on the first syllable, especially in poetry. 

FAREWELL:  Parting; valedictory; final; as, a farewell discourse; his farewell bow. Leans in his spear to take his farewell view. Tickell. Farewell rock (Mining), the Millstone grit; -- so called because no coal is found worth working below this stratum. It is used for hearths of furnaces, having power to resist intense heat. Ure. 

FARFET:  Farfetched. [Obs.] York with his farfet policy. Shak. 

FARFETCH:  To bring from far; to seek out studiously. [Obs.] To farfetch the name of Tartar from a Hebrew word. Fuller. 

FARFETCH:  Anything brought from far, or brought about with studious care; a deep strategem. [Obs.] "Politic farfetches." Hudibras. 

FARINA:  Pollen. [R.] Craig. 

FARINOSE:  Civered with a sort of white, mealy powder, as the leaves of some poplars, and the body of certain insects; mealy. 

FARL:  Same as Furl. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

FARLIE:  An unusual or unexpected thing; a wonder. See Fearly. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Drayton. 

FARM:  A lease of the imposts on particular goods; as, the sugar farm, the silk farm. Whereas G. H. held the farm of sugars upon a rent of 10,000 marks per annum. State Trials (1196). 

FARM:  To engage in the business of tilling the soil; to labor as a farmer. 

FARMABLE:  Capable of being farmed. 

FARMER:  One who farms; as: (a) One who hires and cultivates a farm; a cultivator of leased ground; a tenant. Smart. (b) One who is devoted to the tillage of the soil; one who cultivates a farm; an agriculturist; a husbandman. (c) One who takes taxes, customs, excise, or other duties, to collect, either paying a fixed annuual rent for the privilege; as, a farmer of the revenues. (d) (Mining) The lord of the field, or one who farms the lot and cope of the crown. Farmer-general Etym: [F. fermier-general], one to whom the right of levying certain taxes, in a particular district, was farmed out, under the former French monarchy, for a given sum paid down.  -- Farmers' satin, a light material of cotton and worsted, used for coat linings. McElrath.  -- The king's farmer (O. Eng. Law), one to whom the collection of a royal revenue was farmed out. Burrill. 

FARMERESS:  A woman who farms. 

FARMERSHIP:  Skill in farming. 

FARMERY:  The buildings and yards necessary for the business of a farm; a homestead. [Eng.] 

FARMHOUSE:  A dwelling house on a farm; a farmer's residence. 

FARMING:  Pertaining to agriculture; devoted to, adapted to, or engaged in, farming; as, farming tools; farming land; a farming community. 

FARMING:  The business of cultivating land. 

FARMOST:  Most distant; farthest. A spacious cave within its farmost part. Dryden. 

FARMSTEAD:  A farm with the building upon it; a homestead on a farm. Tennyson. With its pleasant groves and farmsteads. Carlyle. 

FARMSTEADING:  A farmstead. [Scot.] Black. 

FARMYARD:  The yard or inclosure attached to a barn, or the space inclosed by the farm buildings. 

FARNESS:  The state of being far off; distance; remoteness. [R.] Grew. 

FARO:  A gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players play against the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order in which the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack. Faro bank, the capital which the proprietor of a farotable ventures in the game; also, the place where a game of faro is played. Hoyle. 

FAROESE:  An inhabitant, or, collectively, inhabitants, of the Faroe islands.  FAR-OFF Far"-*off`, a.  Remote; as, the far-off distance. Cf. Far-off, under Far, adv. 

FARRAGINOUS:  Formed of various materials; mixed; as, a farraginous mountain. [R.] Kirwan. AA farraginous concurrence of all conditions, tempers, sexes, and ages. Sir T. Browne. 

FARRAGO:  A mass ccomposed of various materials confusedly mixed; a medley; a mixture. A confounded farrago of doubts, fears, hopes, wishes, and all the flimsy furniture of a country miss's brain. Sheridan. 

FARRAND:  Manner; custom; fashion; humor. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also farand.] Grose. 

FARREATION:  Same as Confarreation. 

FARRIER:   1. A shoer of horses  2. a veterinary surgeon. 

FARRIER:  To practice as a farrier; to carry on the trade of a farrier. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

FARROW:  A little of pigs. Shak. 

FARROW:  To bring forth (young); -- said only of swine. Tusser. 

FARROW:  Not producing young in a given season or year; -- said only of cows.  Note: If a cow has had a calf, but fails in a subsequent year, she is said to be farrow, or to go farrow. 

FARRY:  A farrow. [Obs.] Perry. 

FARSE:  An addition to, or a paraphrase of, some part of the Latin service in the vernacular; -- common in English before the Reformation. 

FARSIGHTED:  Hypermetropic. 

FARSIGHTEDNESS:  Hypermetropia.  FAR-STRETCHED; FARSTRETCHED Far"-*stretched`, a.  Stretched beyond ordinary limits.  FAR-STRETCHED Far"-stretched`, a.  Stretched beyond ordinary limits. 

FARTHER:  To help onward. [R.] See Further. 

FARTHERANCE:  See Furtherence. 

FARTHERMORE:  See Furthermore. 

FARTHERMOST:  Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree. See Furthest. 

FARTHEST:  Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree.  See Furthest. 

FARTHEST:  At or to the greatest distance. See Furthest. 

FARTHINGALE:  A hoop skirt or hoop petticoat, or other light, elastic material, used to extend the petticoat. We'll revel it as bravely as the best, . . . With ruffs and cuffs, and farthingales and things. Shak. 

FASCES:  A bundle of rods, having among them an ax with the blade projecting, borne before the Roman magistrates as a badge of their authority. 

FASCET:  A wire basket on the end of a rod to carry glass bottles, etc., to the annealing furnace; also, an iron rod to be thrust into the mouths of bottles, and used for the same purpose; -- calles also pontee and punty. 

FASCIA:  A flat member of an order or building, like a flat band or broad fillet; especially, one of the three bands which make up the architrave, in the Ionic order. See Illust. of Column.  3. (Anat.)  The layer of loose tissue, often containing fat, immediately beneath the skin; the stronger layer of connective tissue covering and investing all muscles; an aponeurosis.  4. (Zoöl.)  A broad well-defined band of color. 

FASCIAL:  Relating to a fascia.  FASCIATE; FASCIATED Fas"ci*ate, Fas"ci*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. fasciatus, p.p. of fasciare to envelop with bands, fr. fascia band. See Fasces.]  1. Bound with a fillet, sash, or bandage.  2. (Bot.) (a) Banded or compacted together. (b) Flattened and laterally widened, as are often the stems of the garden cockscomb.  3. (Zoöl.)  Broadly banded with color. 

FASCIATION:  The act or manner of binding up; bandage; also, the condition of being fasciated. 

FASCICLE:  A small bundle or collection; a compact cluster; as, a fascicle of fibers; a fascicle of flowers or roots. 

FASCICLED:  Growing in a bundle, tuft, or close cluster; as, the fascicled leaves of the pine or larch; the fascicled roots of the dahlia; fascicled muscle fibers; fascicled tufts of hair. 

FASCICULAR:  Pertaining to a fascicle; fascicled; as, a fascicular root. 

FASCICULARLY:  In a fascicled manner. Kirwan.  FASCICULATE; FASCICULATED Fas*cic"u*late, Fas*cic"u*la`ted, a.  Grouped in a fascicle; fascicled. 

FASCICULE:  A small bunch or bundle; a fascicle; as, a fascicule of fibers, hairs, or spines. 

FASCINE:  A cylindrical bundle of small sticks of wood, bound together, used in raising batteries, filling ditches, strengthening ramparts, and making parapets; also in revetments for river banks, and in mats for dams, jetties, etc. 

FASCINOUS:  Caused or acting by witchcraft. [Obs.] "Fascinous diseases." Harvey. 

FASCIOLA:  A band of gray matter bordering the fimbria in the brain; the dentate convolution. Wilder. 

FASCIOLE:  A band of minute tubercles, bearing modified spines, on the shells of spatangoid sea urchins. See Spatangoidea. 

FASH:  To vex; to tease; to trouble. [Scot.] 

FASH:  Vexation; anxiety; care. [Scot.] Without further fash on my part. De Quincey. 

FASHIONABLE:  A person who conforms to the fashions; -- used chiefly in the plural. 

FASHIONABLENESS:  State of being fashionable. 

FASHIONABLY:  In a fashionable manner. 

FASHIONED:  Having a certain style or fashion; as old-fashioned; new- fashioned. 

FASHIONER:  One who fashions, forms, ar gives shape to anything. [R.] The fashioner had accomplished his task, and the dresses were brought home. Sir W. Scott. 

FASHIONIST:  An obsequious follower of the modes and fashions. [R.] Fuller. 

FASHIONLESS:  Having no fashion.  FASHION-MONGER Fash"ion-mon`ger, n.  One who studies the fashions; a fop; a dandy. Marston.  FASHION-MONGERING Fash"ion-mon`ger*ing, a.  Behaving like a fashion-monger. [R.] Shak. 

FASSAITE:  A variety of pyroxene, from the valley of Fassa, in the Tyrol. 

FAST:  That which fastens or holds; especially, (Naut.) a mooring rope, hawser, or chain; -- called, according to its position, a bow, head, quarter, breast, or stern fast; also, a post on a pier around which hawsers are passed in mooring. 

FASTEN:  To fix one's self; to take firm hold; to clinch; to cling. A horse leech will hardly fasten on a fish. Sir T. Browne. 

FASTENER:  One who, or that which, makes fast or firm. 

FASTENING:  Anything that binds and makes fast, as a lock, catch, bolt, bar, buckle, etc. 

FASTER:  One who abstains from food.  FAST-HANDED Fast"-hand`ed, a.  Close-handed; close-fisted; covetous; avaricious. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FASTIDIOSITY:  Fastidiousness; squeamishness. [Obs.] Swift. 

FASTIDIOUS:  Difficult to please; delicate to fault; suited with difficulty; squeamish; as, a fastidious mind or ear; a fastidious appetite. Proud youth ! fastidious of the lower world. Young.  Syn.  -- Squeamish; critical; overnice; difficult; punctilious.  -- Fastidious, Squeamish. We call a person fastidious when his taste or feelings are offended by trifling defects or errors; we call him squeamish when he is excessively nice or critical on minor points, and also when he is overscrupulous as to questions of duty. "Whoever examines his own imperfections will cease to be fastidious; whoever restrains his caprice and scrupulosity will cease to be squeamish." Crabb.  -- Fas*tid"i*ous*ly, adv.  -- Fas*tid"i*ous*ness, n.  FASTIGIATE; FASTIGIATED Fas*tig"i*ate, Fas*tig"i*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. fastigium gable end, top, height, summit.]  1. Narrowing towards the top.  2. (Bot.)  Clustered, parallel, and upright, as the branches of the Lombardy poplar; pointed.  3. (Zoöl.)  United into a conical bundle, or into a bundle with an enlarged head, like a sheaf of wheat. 

FASTISH:  Rather fast; also, somewhat dissipated. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

FASTLY:  Firmly; surely. 

FASTUOUS:  Proud; haughty; disdainful. [Obs.] Barrow. Fas"tu*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

FAT:  Of a character which enables the compositor to make large wages; -- said of matter containing blank, cuts, or many leads, etc.; as, a fat take; a fat page. Fat lute, a mixture of pipe clay and oil for filling joints. 

FAT:  An oily liquid or greasy substance making up the main bulk of the adipose tissue of animals, and widely distributed in the seeds of plants. See Adipose tissue, under Adipose.  Note: Animal fats are composed mainly of three distinct fats, tristearin, tripalmitin, and triolein, mixed in varying proportions. As olein is liquid at ordinary temperatures, while the other two fats are solid, it follows that the consistency or hardness of fats depends upon the relative proportion of the three individual fats. During the life of an animal, the fat is mainly in a liquid state in the fat cells, owing to the solubility of the two solid fats in the more liquid olein at the body temperature. Chemically, fats are composed of fatty acid, as stearic, palmitic, oleic, etc., united with glyceryl. In butter fat, olein and palmitin predominate, mixed with another fat characteristic of butter, butyrin. In the vegetable kingdom many other fats or glycerides are to be found, as myristin from nutmegs, a glyceride of lauric acid in the fat of the bay tree, etc.  2. The best or richest productions; the best part; as, to live on the fat of the land.  3. (Typog.)  Work. containing much blank, or its equivalent, and, therefore, profitable to the compositor. Fat acid. (Chem.) See Sebacic acid, under Sebacic.  -- Fat series, Fatty series (Chem.), the series of the paraffine hydrocarbons and their derivatives; the marsh gas or methane series.  -- Natural fats (Chem.), the group of oily substances of natural occurrence, as butter, lard, tallow, etc., as distinguished from certain fatlike substance of artificial production, as paraffin. Most natural fats are essentially mixtures of triglycerides of fatty acids. 

FAT:  To make fat; to fatten; to make plump and fleshy with abundant food; as, to fat fowls or sheep. We fat all creatures else to fat us. Shak. 

FAT:  To grow fat, plump, and fleshy. An old ox fats as well, and is as good, as a young one. Mortimer. 

FATALISM:  The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that they take place by inevitable necessity. 

FATALIST:  One who maintains that all things happen by inevitable necessity. 

FATALISTIC:  Implying, or partaking of the nature of, fatalism. 

FATALNESS:  , . Quality of being fatal. Johnson.  FATA MORGANA Fa"ta Mor*ga"na. Etym: [It.; -- so called because this phenomenon was looked upon as the work of a fairy (It. fata) of the name of Morgána. See Fairy.]  A kind of mirage by which distant objects appear inverted, distorted, displaced, or multiplied. It is noticed particularly at the Straits of Messina, between Calabria and Sicily. 

FATBACK:  The menhaden.  FAT-BRAINED Fat"-brained`, a.  Dull of apprehension. 

FATE:  The three goddesses, Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, sometimes called the Destinies, or Parcæwho were supposed to determine the course of human life. They are represented, one as holding the distaff, a second as spinning, and the third as cutting off the thread.  Note: Among all nations it has been common to speak of fate or destiny as a power superior to gods and men -- swaying all things irresistibly. This may be called the fate of poets and mythologists. Philosophical fate is the sum of the laws of the universe, the product of eternal intelligence and the blind properties of matter. Theological fate represents Deity as above the laws of nature, and ordaining all things according to his will -- the expression of that will being the law. Krauth-Fleming.  Syn.  -- Destiny; lot; doom; fortune; chance. 

FATEFUL:  Having the power of serving or accomplishing fate. "The fateful steel." J. Barlow.  2. Significant of fate; ominous. The fateful cawings of the crow. Longfellow. -- Fate"ful*ly, adv.- Fate"ful*ness, n. 

FATHERHOOD:  The state of being a father; the character or authority of a father; paternity.  FATHER-IN-LAW Fa"ther-in-law`, n.; pl. Fathers-in-law (.  The father of one's husband or wife; -- correlative to son-in- law and daughter-in-law.  Note: A man who marries a woman having children already, is sometimes, though erroneously, called their father-in-law. 

FATHERLAND:  One's native land; the native land of one's fathers or ancestors.  FATHER-LASHER Fa"ther-lash`er, n. (Zoöl.)  A European marine fish (Cottus bubalis), allied to the sculpin; -- called also lucky proach. 

FATHERLESSNESS:  The state of being without a father. 

FATHERLINESS:  The qualities of a father; parantal kindness, care, etc.  FATHER LONGLEGS Fa"ther long"legs`. (Zoöl.)  See Daddy longlegs, 2. 

FATHERSHIP:  The state of being a father; fatherhood; paternity. 

FATHOMABLE:  Capable of being fathomed. 

FATHOMER:  One who fathoms. 

FATIDICAL:  Having power to foretell future events; prophetic; fatiloquent; as, the fatidical oak. [R.] Howell.  -- Fa*tid"i*cal*ly, adv. 

FATIFEROUS:  Fate-bringing; deadly; mortal; destructive. [R.] Johnson. 

FATIGABLE:  Easily tired. [Obs.] Bailey. 

FATIGATE:  Wearied; tired; fatigued. [Obs.] Requickened what in flesh was fatigate. Shak. 

FATIGATE:  To weary; to tire; to fatigue. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

FATIGATION:  Weariness. [Obs.] W. Montaqu. 

FATIGUE:  To weary with labor or any bodily or mental exertion; to harass with toil; to exhaust the strength or endurance of; to tire.  Syn.  -- To jade; tire; weary; bore. See Jade. 

FATILOQUENT:  Prophetic; fatidical. [Obs.] Blount. 

FATILOQUIST:  A fortune teller.  FATIMITE; FATIMIDE Fat"i*mite, Fat"i*mide, a. (Hist.)  Descended from Fatima, the daughter and only child of Mohammed.  -- n.  A descendant of Fatima. 

FATISCENCE:  A gaping or opening; state of being chinky, or having apertures. Kirwan.  FAT-KIDNEYED Fat"-kid`neyed, a.  Gross; lubberly. Peace, ye fat-kidneyed rascal ! Shak. 

FATLING:  A calf, lamb, kid, or other young animal fattened for slaughter; a fat animal; -- said of such animals as are used for food. He sacrificed oxen and fatlings. 2 Sam. vi. 13. 

FATLY:  Grossly; greasily. 

FATNER:  One who fattens. [R.] See Fattener. Arbuthnit. 

FATTEN:  To grow fat or corpulent; to grow plump, thick, or fleshy; to be pampered. And villains fatten with the brave man's labor. Otway. 

FATTENER:  One who, or that which, fattens; that which gives fatness or fertility. 

FATTINESS:  State or quality of being fatty. 

FATTISH:  Somewhat fat; inclined to fatness. Coleridge, a puffy, anxious, obstructed-looking, fattish old man. Carlyle. 

FATTY:  Containing fat, or having the qualities of fat; greasy; gross; as, a fatty substance. Fatty acid (Chem.), any one of the paraffin series of monocarbonic acids, as formic acid, acetic, etc.; -- so called because the higher members, as stearic and palmitic acids, occur in the natural fats, and are themselves fatlike substances.  -- Fatty clays. See under Clay.  -- Fatty degeneration (Med.), a diseased condition, in which the oil globules, naturally present in certain organs, are so multiplied as gradually to destroy and replace the efficient parts of these organs.  -- Fatty heart, Fatty liver, etc. (Med.), a heart, liver, etc., which have been the subjects of fatty degeneration or infiltration.  -- Fatty infiltration (Med.), a condition in which there is an excessive accumulation of fat in an organ, without destruction of any essential parts of the latter.  -- Fatty tumor (Med.), a tumor consisting of fatty or adipose tissue; lipoma. 

FATUITOUS:  Stupid; fatuous. 

FATUITY:  Weakness or imbecility of mind; stupidity. Those many forms of popular fatuity. I Taylor. 

FATUOUS:  Dull; stupid. Shak. 

FAUBOURG:  A suburb of French city; also, a district now within a city, but formerly without its walls. 

FAUCAL:  Pertaining to the fauces, or opening of the throat; faucial; esp., (Phon.) produced in the fauces, as certain deep guttural sounds found in the Semitic and some other languages. Ayin is the most difficult of the faucals. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 

FAUCES:  The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situated between the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called also the isthmus of the fauces. On either side of the passage two membranous folds, called the pillars of the fauces, inclose the tonsils.  2. (Bot.)  The throat of a calyx, corolla, etc.  3. (Zoöl.)  That portion of the interior of a spiral shell which can be seen by looking into the aperture. 

FAUCHION:  See Falchion. [Obs.] 

FAUCIAL:  Pertaining to the fauces; pharyngeal. 

FAUGH:  An exclamation of contempt, disgust, or abhorrence. 

FAULCHION:  See Falchion. 

FAULCON:  See Falcon. 

FAULD:  The arch over the dam of a blast furnace; the tymp arch. 

FAULE:  A fall or falling band. [Obs.] These laces, ribbons, and these faules. Herrick. 

FAULT:  A lost scent; act of losing the scent. Ceasing their clamorous cry till they have singled, With much ado, the cold fault cleary out. Shak.  6. (Tennis)  Failure to serve the ball into the proper court. At fault, unable to find the scent and continue chase; hance, in trouble ot embarrassment, and unable to proceed; puzzled; thhrown off the track.  -- To find fault, to find reason for blaming or complaining; to express dissatisfaction; to complain; -- followed by with before the thing complained of; but formerly by at. "Matter to find fault at." Robynson (More's Utopia).  Syn.  -- -- Error; blemish; defect; imperfection; weakness; blunder; failing; vice.  -- Fault, Failing, Defect, Foible. A fault is positive, something morally wrong; a failing is negative, some weakness or failling short in a man's character, disposition, or habits; a defect is also negative, and as applied to character is the absence of anyything which is necessary to its completeness or perfection; a foible is a less important weakness, which we overlook or smile at. A man may have many failings, and yet commit but few faults; or his faults and failings may be few, while his foibles are obvious to all. The faults of a friend are often palliated or explained away into mere defects, and the defects or foibles of an enemy exaggerated into faults. "I have failings in common with every human being, besides my own peculiar faults; but of avarice I have generally held myself guiltless." Fox. "Presumption and self-applause are the foibles of mankind." Waterland. 

FAULT:  To interrupt the continuity of (rock strata) by displacement along a plane of fracture; -- chiefly used in the p.p.; as, the coal beds are badly faulted. 

FAULT:  To err; to blunder, to commit a fault; to do wrong. [Obs.] If after Samuel's death the people had asked of God a king, they had not faulted. Latimer. 

FAULTER:  One who commits a fault. [Obs.] Behold the faulter here in sight. Fairfax.  FAULT-FINDER Fault"-find`er, n.  One who makes a practice off discovering others' faults and censuring them; a scold.  FAULT-FINDING Fault"-find`ing, n.  The act of finding fault or blaming; -- used derogatively. Also Adj. 

FAULTFUL:  Full of faults or sins. Shak. 

FAULTILY:  In a faulty manner. 

FAULTINESS:  Quality or state of being faulty. Round, even to faultiness. Shak. 

FAULTING:  The state or condition of being faulted; the process by which a fault is produced. 

FAULTLESS:  Without fault; not defective or imperfect; free from blemish; free from incorrectness, vice, or offense; perfect; as, a faultless poem. Whoever thinks a faultless piece to see, Thinks what ne'er was, nor is, nor e'er shall be. Pope.  Syn.  -- Blameless; spotless; perfect. See Blameless.  -- Fault"less*ly, adv.-Fault"less*ness, n. 

FAUN:  A god of fields and shipherds, diddering little from the satyr. The fauns are usually represented as half goat and half man. Satyr or Faun, or Sylvan. Milton. 

FAUNA:  The animals of any given area or epoch; as, the fauna of America; fossil fauna; recent fauna. 

FAUNAL:  Relating to fauna. 

FAUNIST:  One who describes the fauna of country; a naturalist. Gilbert White. 

FAUNUS:  See Faun. 

FAUSEN:  A young eel. [Prov. Eng.]  FAUSSE-BRAYE Fausse`-braye", n. Etym: [F. fausse-braie.] (Mil.)  A second raampart, exterior to, and parallel to, the main rampart, and considerably below its level. 

FAUTOR:  A favorer; a patron; one who gives countenance or support; an abettor. [Obs.] The king and the fautors of his proceedings. Latimer. 

FAUTRESS:  A patroness. [Obs.] Chapman. 

FAUVETTE:  A small singing bird, as the nightingale and warblers. 

FAUX:  See Fauces.  FAUX PAS faux` pas". Etym: [F. See False, and Pas.]  A false step; a mistake or wrong measure. 

FAVAGINOUS:  Formed like, or resembling, a honeycomb. 

FAVAS:  See Favus, n., 2. Fairholt. 

FAVEL:  Yellow; fal [Obs.] Wright. 

FAVEL:  A horse of a favel or dun color. To curry favel. See To curry favor, under Favor, n. 

FAVEL:  Flattery; cajolery; deceit. [Obs.] Skeat. 

FAVELLA:  A group of spores arranged without order and covered with a thin gelatinous envelope, as in certain delicate red algæ. 

FAVEOLATE:  Honeycomb; having cavities or cells, somewhat resembling those of a honeycomb; alveolate; favose.  FAVIER EXPLOSIVE Fa`vier" ex*plo"sive. [After the inventor, P. A. Favier, a Frenchman.]  Any of several explosive mixtures, chiefly of ammonium nitrate and a nitrate derivative of naphthalene. They are stable, but require protection from moisture. As prepared it is a compressed cylinder of the explosive, filled with loose powder of the same composition, all inclosed in waterproof wrappers. It is used for mining. 

FAVILLOUS:  Of or pertaining to ashes. [Obs.] Light and favollous particles. Sir T. Browne. 

FAVONIAN:  Pertaining to the west wind; soft; mild; gentle. 

FAVOR:  Partiality; bias. Bouvier.  9. A letter or epistle; -- so called in civility or compliment; as, your favor of yesterday is received.  10. pl.  Love locks. [Obs.] Wright. Challenge to the favor or for favor (Law), the challenge of a juror on grounds not sufficient to constitute a principal challenge, but sufficient to give rise to a probable suspicion of favor or bias, such as acquaintance, business relation, etc. See Principal challenge, under Challenge.  -- In favor of, upon the side of; favorable to; for the advantage of.  -- In favor with, favored, countenanced, or encouraged by.  -- To curry favor Etym: [see the etymology of Favor, above], to seek to gain favor by flattery, caresses, kindness, or officious civilities.  -- With one's favor, or By one's favor, with leave; by kind permission. But, with your favor, I will treat it here. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Kindness; countenance; patronage; support; lenity; grace; gift; present; benefit. 

FAVOREDLY:  In a favored or a favorable manner; favorably. [Obs.] Deut. xvii. 1. Arscham. 

FAVOREDNESS:  Appearance. [Obs.] 

FAVORER:  One who favors; one who regards with kindness or friendship; a well-wisher; one who assists or promotes success or prosperity. [Written also favourer.] And come to us as favorers, not as foes. Shak. 

FAVORESS:  A woman who favors or gives countenance. [Written also fovouress.] 

FAVORING:  That favors.  -- Fa"vor*ing*ly, adv. 

FAVORITE:  Short curls dangling over the temples; -- fashionable in the reign of Charles II. [Obs.] Farquhar.  3. (Sporting)  The competitor (as a horse in a race) that is judged most likely to win; the competitor standing highest in the betting. 

FAVORITE:  Regarded with particular affection, esteem, or preference; as, a favorite walk; a favorite child. "His favorite argument." Macaulay. 

FAVORITISM:  The disposition to favor and promote the interest of one person or family, or of one class of men, to the neglect of others having equal claims; partiality. A spirit of favoritism to the Bank of the United States. A. Hamilton. 

FAVOSE:  Honeycombed. See Faveolate.  2. (Med.)  Of or pertaining to the disease called favus. 

FAVOSITE:  Like or pertaining to the genus Favosites. 

FAVOSITES:  A genus of fossil corals abundant in the Silurian and Devonian rocks, having polygonal cells with perforated walls. 

FAVUS:  A disease of the scalp, produced by a vegetable parasite.  2. A tile or flagstone cut into an hexagonal shape to produce a honeycomb pattern, as in a pavement; -- called also favas and sectila. Mollett. 

FAWE:  Fain; glad; delighted. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FAWKNER:  A falconer. [Obs.] Donne. 

FAWN:  A young deer; a buck or doe of the first year. See Buck.  2. The young of an animal; a whelp. [Obs.] [The tigress] . . . followeth . . . after her fawns. Holland.  3. A fawn color. 

FAWN:  Of the color of a fawn; fawn-colored. 

FAWN:  To bring forth a fawn. 

FAWN:  To court favor by low cringing, frisking, etc., as a dog; to flatter meanly; -- often followed by on or upon. You showed your teeth like apes, and fawned like hounds. Shak. Thou with trembling fear, Or like a fawning parasite, obeyest. Milton. Courtiers who fawn on a master while they betray him. Macaulay. 

FAWN:  A servile cringe or bow; mean flattery; sycophancy. Shak.  FAWN-COLORED Fawn"-col`ored, a.  Of the color of a fawn; light yellowish brown. 

FAWNER:  One who fawns; a sycophant. 

FAWNINGLY:  In a fawning manner. 

FAXED:  Hairy. [Obs.] amden. 

FAY:  A fairy; an elf. "Yellow-skirted fays." Milton. 

FAY:  Faith; as, by my fay. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FAY:  To fit; to join; to unite closely, as two pieces of wood, so as to make the surface fit together. 

FAY:  To lie close together; to fit; to fadge; -- often with in, into, with, or together. Faying surface, that surface of an object which comes with another object to which it is fastened; -- said of plates, angle irons, etc., that are riveted together in shipwork. 

FAYALITE:  A black, greenish, or brownish mineral of the chrysolite group. It is a silicate of iron. 

FAYENCE:  See Fa. 

FAYTOUR:  See Faitour. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FAZE:  See Feeze. 

FAZZOLET:  A handkerchief. [R.] percival. 

FEABERRY:  A gooseberry. [Prov. Eng.] Prior. 

FEAGUE:  To beat or whip; to drive. [Obs.] Otway. 

FEAL:  Faithful; loyal. [Obs.] Wright. 

FEAR:  A variant of Fere, a mate, a companion. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FEAR:  To be in apprehension of evil; to be afraid; to feel anxiety on account of some expected evil. I exceedingly fear and quake. Heb. xii. 21. 

FEARER:  One who fars. Sir P. Sidney. 

FEARFULLY:  In a fearful manner. 

FEARFULNESS:  The state of being fearful. 

FEARLESS:  Free from fear.  Syn.  -- Bold; courageous; interpid; valor -- Fear"less*ly, adv.  -- Fera"less*ness, n. 

FEARSOME:  . Easily frightened; timid; timorous. "A silly fearsome thing." B. Taylor 

FEASIBILITY:  The quality of being feasible; practicability; also, that which is feasible; as, before we adopt a plan, let us consider its feasibility. Men often swallow falsities for truths, dubiosities for certainties, possibilities for feasibilities. Sir T. Browne. 

FEASTFUL:  Festive; festal; joyful; sumptuous; luxurious. "Feastful days." Milton.  -- Feast"ful*ly, adv. 

FEAT:  To form; to fashion. [Obs.] To the more mature, A glass that feated them. Shak. 

FEAT:  Dexterous in movements or service; skillful; neat; nice; pretty. [Archaic] Never master had a page . . . so feat. Shak. And look how well my garments sit upon me --Much feater than before. Shak.  FEAT-BODIED Feat"-bod`ied, a.  Having a feat or trim body. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

FEATEOUS:  Dexterous; neat. [Obs.] Johnson.  -- Feat"e*ous*ly, adv. 

FEATHER:  A longitudinal strip projecting as a fin from an object, to strengthen it, or to enter a channel in another object and thereby prevent displacement sidwise but permit motion lengthwise; a spline.  7. A thin wedge driven between the two semicylindrical parts of a divided plug in a hole bored in a stone, to rend the stone. Knight.  8. The angular adjustment of an oar or paddle-wheel float, with reference to a horizontal axis, as it leaves or enters the water.  Note: Feather is used adjectively or in combination, meaning composed of, or resembling, a feather or feathers; as, feather fan, feather- heeled, feather duster. Feather alum (Min.), a hydrous sulphate of alumina, resulting from volcanic action, and from the decomposition of iron pyrites; -- called also halotrichite. Ure.  -- Feather bed, a bed filled with feathers.  -- Feather driver, one who prepares feathers by beating.  -- Feather duster, a dusting brush of feathers.  -- Feather flower, an artifical flower made of feathers, for ladies' headdresses, and other ornamental purposes.  -- Feather grass (Bot.), a kind of grass (Stipa pennata) which has a long feathery awn rising from one of the chaffy scales which inclose the grain.  -- Feather maker, one who makes plumes, etc., of feathers, real or artificial.  -- Feather ore (Min.), a sulphide of antimony and lead, sometimes found in capillary forms and like a cobweb, but also massive. It is a variety of Jamesonite.  -- Feather shot, or Feathered shot (Metal.), copper granulated by pouring into cold water. Raymond.  -- Feather spray (Naut.), the spray thrown up, like pairs of feathers, by the cutwater of a fast-moving vessel.  -- Feather star. (Zoöl.) See Comatula.  -- Feather weight. (Racing) (a) Scrupulously exact weight, so that a feather would turn the scale, when a jockey is weighed or weighted. (b) The lightest weight that can be put on the back of a horse in racing. Youatt. (c) In wrestling, boxing, etc., a term applied to the lightest of the classes into which contestants are divided; -- in contradistinction to light weight, middle weight, and heavy weight. A feather in the cap an honour, trophy, or mark of distinction. [Colloq.] -- To be in full feather, to be in full dress or in one's best clothes. [Collog.] -- To be in high feather, to be in high spirits. [Collog.] -- To cut a feather. (a) (Naut.) To make the water foam in moving; in allusion to the ripple which a ship throws off from her bows. (b) To make one's self conspicuous.[Colloq.] -- To show the white feather, to betray cowardice, -- a white feather in the tail of a cock being considered an indication that he is not of the true game breed. 

FEATHERBONE:  A substitute for whalebone, made from the quills of geese and turkeys.  FEATHER-BRAINED Feath"er-brained, a.  Giddy; frivolous; feather-headed. [Colloq.] 

FEATHERED:  Having a fringe of feathers, as the legs of certian birds; or of hairs, as the legs of a setter dog.  4. (Her.)  Having feathers; -- said of an arrow, when the feathers are of a tincture different from that of the shaft.  FEATHER-EDGE Feath"er-edge, n.  1. (Zoöl.)  The thin, new growth around the edge of a shell, of an oyster.  2. Any thin, as on a board or a razor.  FEATHER-EDGED Feath"er-edged, a.  Having a feather-edge; also, having one edge thinner than the other, as a board; -- in the United States, said only of stuff one edge of which is made as thin as practicable.  FEATHER-FEW Feath"er-few, n. (Bot.)  Feverfew.  FEATHER-FOIL Feath"er-foil`, n. Etym: [Feather + foil a leaf.] (Bot.)  An aquatic plant (Hottonia palustris), having finely divided leaves.  FEATHER-HEAD Feath"er-head`, n.  A frivolous or featherbrained person. [Colloq.] H. James.  FEATHER-HEADED Feath"er-head`ed, a.  Giddy; frivolous; foolish. [Colloq.] G. Eliot.  FEATHER-HEELED Feath"er-heeled`, a.  Light-heeled; gay; frisky; frolicsome. [Colloq.] 

FEATHERINESS:  The state or condition of being feathery. 

FEATHERING:  Same as Foliation.  2. The act of turning the blade of the oar, as it rises from the water in rowing, from a vertical to a horizontal position. See To feather an oar, under Feather, v. t.  3. A covering of feathers. Feathering float (Naut.), the float or paddle of a feathering wheel.  -- Feathering screw (Naut.), a screw propeller, of which the blades may be turned so as to move edgewise through the water when the vessel is moving under sail alone.  -- Feathering wheel (Naut.), a paddle wheel whose floats turn automatically so as to dip about perpendicularly into the water and leave in it the same way, avoiding beating on the water in the descent and lifting water in the ascent. 

FEATHERLESS:  Destitute of feathers. 

FEATHERLY:  Like feathers. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FEATHERNESS:  The state or condition of being feathery.  FEATHER-PATED Feath"er-pat"ed, a.  Feather-headed; frivolous. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. 

FEATHERSTITCH:  A kind of embroidery stitch producing a branching zigzag line.  FEATHER-VEINED Feath"er-veined`, a. (Bot.)  Having the veins (of a leaf) diverging from the two sides of a midrib. 

FEATHERY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, feathers; covered with, or as with, feathers; as, feathery spray or snow. Milton. Ye feathery people of mid air. Barry Cornwall. 

FEATLY:  Neatly; dexterously; nimbly. [Archaic] Foot featly here and there. Shak. 

FEATNESS:  Skill; adroitness. [Archaic] Johnson. 

FEATURELESS:  Having no distinct or distinctive features. 

FEATURELY:  Having features; showing marked peculiarities; handsome. [R.] Featurely warriors of Christian chivalry. Coleridge. 

FEAZE:  To untwist; to unravel, as the end of a rope. Johnson. 

FEAZE:  To beat; to chastise; also, to humble; to harass; to worry. [Obs.] insworth. 

FEAZE:  A state of anxious or fretful excitement; worry; vexation. [Obs.] 

FEAZINGS:  The unlaid or ragged end of a rope. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

FEBRICITATE:  To have a fever. [Obs.] Bailey. 

FEBRICULOSE:  Somewhat feverish. [Obs.] Johnson. 

FEBRIFACIENT:  Febrific. Dunglison.  -- n.  That which causes fever. Beddoes. 

FEBRIFEROUS:  Causing fever; as, a febriferous locality. 

FEBRIFIC:  Producing fever. Dunglison. 

FEBRIFUGAL:  Having the quality of mitigating or curing fever. Boyle. 

FEBRIFUGE:  A medicine serving to mitigate or remove fever.  -- a.  Antifebrile. 

FEBRILE:  Pertaining to fever; indicating fever, or derived from it; as, febrile symptoms; febrile action. Dunglison. 

FEBRUARY:  The second month in the year, said to have been introduced into the Roman calendar by Numa. In common years this month contains twenty-eight days; in the bissextile, or leap year, it has twenty- nine days. 

FEBRUATION:  Purification; a sacrifice. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FECAL:  relating to, or containing, dregs, feces, or ordeure; fæcal. 

FECCHE:  To fetch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FECES:  dregs; sediment; excrement. See FÆces. 

FECIAL:  Pertaining to heralds, declarations of war, and treaties of peace; as, fecial law. Kent. 

FECIFORK:  The anal fork on which the larvæ of certain insects carry their fæces. 

FECKLESS:  Spiritless; weak; worthless. [Scot] 

FECKLESSNESS:  absence of merit. [WordNet 1.5] 

FECKS:  A corruption of the word faith. Shak. 

FECULA:  Any pulverulent matter obtained from plants by simply breaking down the texture, washing with water, and subsidence. Especially: (a) The nutritious part of wheat; starch or farina; -- called also amylaceous fecula. (b) The green matter of plants; chlorophyll. 

FECULENCY:  Feculence. 

FECULENT:  Foul with extraneous or impure substances; abounding with sediment or excrementitious matter; muddy; thick; turbid. Both his hands most filthy feculent. Spenser. 

FECUND:  Fruitful in children; prolific. Graunt. 

FECUNDATE:  To render fruitful or prolific; to impregnate; as, in flowers the pollen fecundates the ovum through the stigma. 

FECUNDATION:  The act by which, either in animals or plants, material prepared by the generative organs the female organism is brought in contact with matter from the organs of the male, so that a new organism results; impregnation; fertilization. 

FECUNDIFY:  To make fruitful; to fecundate. Johnson. 

FED:  imp. & p. p. of Feed. 

FEDARY:  A feodary. [Obs.] Shak. 

FEDERAL:  See Federalist. 

FEDERALISM:  the principles of Federalists or of federal union. 

FEDERALIST:  An advocate of confederation; specifically (Amer. Hist.), a friend of the Constitution of the United States at its formation and adoption; a member of the political party which favored the administration of president Washington. 

FEDERALIZE:  To unite in compact, as different States; to confederate for political purposes; to unite by or under the Federal Constitution. Barlow. 

FEDERARY:  A partner; a confederate; an accomplice. [Obs.] hak. 

FEDERATE:  United by compact, as sovereignties, states, or nations; joined in confederacy; leagued; confederate; as, federate nations. 

FEDERATIVE:  Uniting in a league; forming a confederacy; federal. "A federative society." Burke. 

FEDITY:  Turpitude; vileness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

FEE:  A right to the use of a superior's land, as a stipend for services to be performed; also, the land so held; a fief.  4. (Eng. Law)  An estate of inheritance supposed to be held either mediately or immediately from the sovereign, and absolutely vested in the owner.  Note: All the land in England, except the crown land, is of this kind. An absolute fee, or fee simple, is land which a man holds to himself and his heirs forever, who are called tenants in fee simple. In modern writers, by fee is usually meant fee simple. A limited fee may be a qualitified or base fee, which ceases with the existence of certain conditions; or a conditional fee, or fee tail, which is limited to particular heirs. Blackstone.  5. (Amer. Law)  An estate of inheritance belonging to the owner, and transmissible to his heirs, absolutely and simply, without condition attached to the tenure. Fee estate (Eng. Law), land or tenements held in fee in consideration or some acknowledgment or service rendered to the lord.  -- Fee farm (Law), land held of another in fee, in consideration of an annual rent, without homage, fealty, or any other service than that mentioned in the feoffment; an estate in fee simple, subject to a perpetual rent. Blackstone.  -- Fee farm rent (Eng. Law), a perpetual rent reserved upon a conveyance in fee simple.  -- Fee fund (Scot. Law), certain court dues out of which the clerks and other court officers are paid.  -- Fee simple (Law), an absolute fee; a fee without conditions or limits. Buy the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter. Shak. -- Fee tail (Law), an estate of inheritance, limited and restrained to some particular heirs. Burill. 

FEE:  To reward for services performed, or to be performed; to recompense; to hire or keep in hire; hence, to bribe. The patient . . . fees the doctor. Dryden. There's not a one of them but in his house I keep a servant feed. Shak. 

FEEBLE:  To make feble; to enfeeble. [Obs.] Shall that victorious hand be feebled here Shak.  FEEBLE-MINDED Fee"ble-mind"ed, a.  Weak in intellectual power; wanting firmness or constancy; irresolute; vacilating; imbecile. "comfort the feeble-minded." 1 Thess. v. 14.  -- Fee"ble-mind"ed*ness, n. 

FEEBLENESS:  The quality or condition of being feeble; debility; infirmity. That shakes for age and feebleness. Shak. 

FEEBLY:  In a feeble manner. The restored church . . . contended feebly, and with half a heart. Macaulay. 

FEEDER:  An auxiliary part of a machine which supplies or leads along the material operated upon.  9. (Steam Engine)  A device for supplying steam boilers with water as needed. 

FEEDING:  A nonsensical exclamation attributed to giants and ogres; hence, any expression calculated to impose upon the timid and ignorant. "Impudent fee-faw-fums." J. H. Newman. 

FEEJEE:  See Fijian. 

FEELER:  One of the sense organs or certain animals (as insects), which are used in testing objects by touch and in searching for food; an antenna; a palp. Insects . . . perpetually feeling and searching before them with their feelers or antennæ. Derham.  3. Anything, as a proposal, observation, etc., put forth or thrown out in order to ascertain the views of others; something tentative. 

FEELINGLY:  In a feeling manner; pathetically; sympathetically. 

FEERE:  A consort, husband or wife; a companion; a fere. [Obs.] 

FEESE:  the short run before a leap. [Obs.] Nares. 

FEET:  See Foot. 

FEET:  Fact; performance. [Obs.] 

FEETLESS:  Destitute of feet; as, feetless birds. 

FEEZE:  Fretful excitement. [Obs.] See Feaze. 

FEHLING:  See Fehling's solution, under Solution.  FEHM; FEHMGERICHT Fehm, n., Fehm"ge*richt`, n.  Same as Vehm, Vehmgericht. 

FEHMIC:  See Vehmic. 

FEIGNED:  Not real or genuine; pretended; counterfeit; insincere; false. "A feigned friend." Shak. Give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips. Ps. xvii. 1. -- Feign"ed*ly, adv.  -- Feign"ed*ness, n. Her treacherous sister Judah hath not turned unto me with her whole heart, but feignedly. Jer. iii. 10. Feigned issue (Law), an issue produced in a pretended action between two parties for the purpose of trying before a jury a question of fact which it becomes necessary to settle in the progress of a cause. Burill. Bouvier. 

FEIGNER:  One who feigns or pretends. 

FEIGNING:  That feigns; insincere; not genuine; false.  -- Feign"ing*ly, adv. 

FEINE:  To feign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FEINT:  Feigned; counterfeit. [Obs.] Dressed up into any feint appearance of it. Locke. 

FEINT:  To make a feint, or mock attack. 

FEITSUI:  The Chinese name for a highly prized variety of pale green jade. See Jade. 

FEIZE:  See Feeze, v. t. 

FELANDERS:  See Filanders.  FELDSPAR; FELDSPATH Feld"spar`, Feld"spath`, n. Etym: [G. feldspath; feld field + spath spar.] (Min.)  A name given to a group of minerals, closely related in crystalline form, and all silicates of alumina with either potash, soda, lime, or, in one case, baryta. They occur in crystals and crystalline masses, vitreous in luster, and breaking rather easily in two directions at right angles to each other, or nearly so. The colors are usually white or nearly white, flesh-red, bluish, or greenish.  Note: The group includes the monoclinic (orthoclastic) species orthoclase or common potash feldspar, and the rare hyalophane or baryta feldspar; also the triclinic species (called in general plagioclase) microcline, like orthoclase a potash feldspar; anorthite or lime feldspar; albite or soda feldspar; also intermediate between the last two species, labradorite, andesine, oligoclase, containing both lime and soda in varying amounts. The feldspars are essential constituents of nearly all crystalline rocks, as granite, gneiss, mica, slate, most kinds of basalt and trachyte, etc. The decomposition of feldspar has yielded a large part of the clay of the soil, also the mineral kaolin, an essential material in the making of fine pottery. Common feldspar is itself largely used for the same purpose.  FELDSPATHIC; FELDSPATHOSE Feld*spath"ic, Feld*spath"ose, a.  Pertaining to, or consisting of, feldspar. 

FELE:  Many. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FELICIFY:  To make happy; to felicitate. [Obs.] Quarles. 

FELICITATE:  Made very happy. [Archaic] I am alone felicitate In your dear highness' love. Shak. 

FELICITATION:  The act of felicitating; a wishing of joy or happiness; congratulation. 

FELICITOUS:  Characterized by felicity; happy; prosperous; delightful; skilful; successful; happily applied or expressed; appropriate. Felicitous words and images. M. Arnold. -- Fe*lic"i*tous*ly, adv.  -- Fe*lic"i*tous*ness, n. 

FELINE:  Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidæ; as, the feline race; feline voracity.  2. Characteristic of cats; sly; stealthy; treacherous; as, a feline nature; feline manners. 

FELIS:  A genus of carnivorous mammals, including the domestic cat, the lion, tiger, panther, and similar animals. 

FELL:  imp. of Fall. 

FELL:  Gall; anger; melancholy. [Obs.] Untroubled of vile fear or bitter fell. Spenser. 

FELL:  A skin or hide of a beast with the wool or hair on; a pelt; -- used chiefly in composition, as woolfell. We are still handling our ewes, and their fells, you know, are greasy. Shak. 

FELL:  To cause to fall; to prostrate; to bring down or to the ground; to cut down. Stand, or I'll fell thee down. Shak. 

FELL:  The finer portions of ore which go through the meshes, when the ore is sorted by sifting. 

FELL:  To sew or hem; -- said of seams. 

FELL:  A form of seam joining two pieces of cloth, the edges being folded together and the stitches taken through both thicknesses.  2. (Weaving)  The end of a web, formed by the last thread of the weft. 

FELLABLE:  Fit to be felled. 

FELLAH:  A peasant or cultivator of the soil among the Egyptians, Syrians, etc. W. M. Thomson. 

FELLER:  One who, or that which, fells, knocks or cuts down; a machine for felling trees. 

FELLER:  An appliance to a sewing machine for felling a seam. 

FELLFARE:  The fieldfare. 

FELLIFLUOUS:  Flowing with gall. [R.] Johnson. 

FELLINIC:  Of, relating to, or derived from, bile or gall; as, fellinic acid. 

FELLMONGER:  A dealer in fells or sheepskins, who separates the wool from the pelts. 

FELLNESS:  The quality or state of being fell or cruel; fierce barbarity. Spenser. 

FELLOE:  See Felly. 

FELLON:  Variant of Felon. [Obs.] Those two were foes the fellonest on ground. Spenser. 

FELLOW:  To suit with; to pair with; to match. [Obs.] Shak.  FELLOW-COMMONER Fel"low-com"mon*er, n.  A student at Cambridge University, England, who commons, or dines, at the Fellow's table.  FELLOW-CREATURE Fel"low-crea"ture, n.  One of the same race or kind; one made by the same Creator. Reason, by which we are raised above our fellow-creatures, the brutes. I. Watts. 

FELLOWFEEL:  To share through sympathy; to participate in. [R.] D. Rodgers.  FELLOW-FEELING Fel"low-feel"ing, n.  1. Sympathy; a like feeling.  2. Joint interest. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. 

FELLOWLESS:  Without fellow or equal; peerless. Whose well-built walls are rare and fellowless. Chapman. 

FELLOWLIKE:  Like a companion; companionable; on equal terms; sympathetic. [Obs.] Udall. 

FELLOWLY:  Fellowlike. [Obs.] Shak. 

FELLOWSHIP:  (Eccl.) To acknowledge as of good standing, or in communion according to standards of faith and practice; to admit to Christian fellowship.  FELLOWSHIP; GOOD FELLOWSHIP Good fel"low*ship  companionableness; the spirit and disposition befitting comrades. There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good fellowship in thee. Shak. 

FELLY:  , adv. In a fell or cruel manner; fiercely; barbarously; savagely. Spenser. 

FELLY:  The exterior wooden rim, or a segment of the rim, of a wheel, supported by the spokes. [Written also felloe.] Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel. Shak.  FELO-DE-SE Fe"lo-de-se`, n.; pl. Felos-de-se. Etym: [LL. felo, E. felon + de of, concerning + se self.] (Law)  One who deliberately puts an end to his own existence, or loses his life while engaged in the commission of an unlawful or malicious act; a suicide. Burrill. 

FELON:  A person who has committed a felony.  2. A person guilty or capable of heinous crime.  3. (Med.)  A kind of whitlow; a painful imflammation of the periosteum of a finger, usually of the last joint.  Syn.  -- Criminal; convict; malefactor; culprit. 

FELON:  Characteristic of a felon; malignant; fierce; malicious; cruel; traitorous; disloyal. Vain shows of love to vail his felon hate. Pope. 

FELONIOUS:  Having the quality of felony; malignant; malicious; villainous; traitorous; perfidious; in a legal sense, done with intent to commit a crime; as, felonious homicide. O thievish Night, Why should'st thou, but for some felonious end, In thy dark lantern thus close up the stars Milton. -- Fe*lo"ni`ous*ly, adv.  -- Fe*lo"ni`ous*ness, n. 

FELONOUS:  Wicked; felonious. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FELONRY:  A body of felons; specifically, the convict population of a penal colony. Howitt. 

FELONWORT:  The bittersweet nightshade (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet. 

FELONY:  An act on the part of the vassal which cost him his fee by forfeiture. Burrill.  2. (O.Eng.Law)  An offense which occasions a total forfeiture either lands or goods, or both, at the common law, and to which capital or other punishment may be added, according to the degree of guilt.  3. A heinous crime; especially, a crime punishable by death or imprisonment.  Note: Forfeiture for crime having been generally abolished in the United States, the term felony, in American law, has lost this point of distinction; and its meaning, where not fixed by statute, is somewhat vague and undefined; generally, however, it is used to denote an offense of a high grade, punishable either capitally or by a term of imprisonment. In Massachusetts, by statute, any crime punishable by death or imprisonment in the state prison, and no other, is a felony; so in New York. the tendency now is to obliterate the distinction between felonies and misdemeanors; and this has been done partially in England, and completely in some of the States of the Union. The distinction is purely arbitrary, and its entire abolition is only a question of time.  Note: There is no lawyer who would undertake to tell what a felony is, otherwise than by enumerating the various kinds of offenses which are so called. originally, the word felony had a meaning: it denoted all offenses the penalty of which included forfeiture of goods; but subsequent acts of Parliament have declared various offenses to be felonies, without enjoining that penalty, and have taken away the penalty from others, which continue, nevertheless, to be called felonies, insomuch that the acts so called have now no property whatever in common, save that of being unlawful and purnishable. J. S. Mill.  FELONY; TO COMPOUND A FELONY To compound a felony  . See under Compound, v. t. 

FELSITE:  A finegrained rock, flintlike in fracture, consisting essentially of orthoclase feldspar with occasional grains of quartz. 

FELSITIC:  relating to, composed of, or containing, felsite.  FELSPAR; FELSPATH Fel"spar`, Fel"spath`, n. (Min.)  See Feldspar. 

FELSPATHIC:  See Feldspathic. 

FELSTONE:  See Felsite. 

FELT:  imp. & p. p. or a. from Feel. 

FELTER:  To clot or mat together like felt. His feltered locks that on his bosom fell. Fairfax.  FELT GRAIN Felt grain  , the grain of timber which is transverse to the annular rings or plates; the direction of the medullary rays in oak and some other timber. Knight. 

FELTRY:  See Felt, n. [Obs.] 

FELUCCA:  A small, swift-sailing vessel, propelled by oars and lateen sails, -- once common in the Mediterranean.  Note: Sometimes it is constructed so that the helm may be used at either end. 

FELWORT:  A European herb (Swertia perennis) of the Gentian family. 

FEMALE:  A plant which produces only that kind of reproductive organs which are capable of developing into fruit after impregnation or fertilization; a pistillate plant. 

FEMALE:  Having pistils and no stamens; pistillate; or, in cryptogamous plants, capable of receiving fertilization.  FEMALE FERN Female fern (Bot.),  a common species of fern with large decompound fronds (Asplenium Filixfæmina), growing in many countries; lady fern.  Note: The names male fern and female fern were anciently given to two common ferns; but it is now understood that neither has any sexual character.  Syn.  -- Female, Feminine. We apply female to the sex or individual, as opposed to male; also, to the distinctive belongings of women; as, female dress, female form, female character, etc.; feminine, to things appropriate to, or affected by, women; as, feminine studies, employments, accomplishments, etc. "Female applies to sex rather than gender, and is a physiological rather than a grammatical term. Feminine applies to gender rather than sex, and is grammatical rather than physiological." Latham.  FEMALE RHYMES Female rhymes (Pros.),  double rhymes, or rhymes (called in French feminine rhymes because they end in e weak, or feminine) in which two syllables, an accented and an unaccented one, correspond at the end of each line.  Note: A rhyme, in which the final syllables only agree (strain, complain) is called a male rhyme; one in which the two final syllables of each verse agree, the last being short (motion, ocean), is called female. Brande & C.  -- Female screw, the spiral-threaded cavity into which another, or male, screw turns. Nicholson. 

FEMALIST:  A gallant. [Obs.] Courting her smoothly like a femalist. Marston. 

FEMALIZE:  To make, or to describe as, female or feminine. Shaftesbury. 

FEME:  A woman. Burrill. Feme covert (Law), a married woman. See Covert, a., 3.  -- Feme sole (Law), a single or unmarried woman; a woman who has never been married, or who has been divorced, or whose husband is dead.  -- Feme sole trader or merchant (Eng. Law), a married woman, by the custom of London, engages in business on her own account, inpendently of her husband. 

FEMERAL:  See Femerell. 

FEMERELL:  A lantern, or louver covering, placed on a roof, for ventilation or escape of smoke. 

FEMINAL:  Feminine. [Obs.] West. 

FEMINALITY:  Feminity. 

FEMINATE:  Feminine. [Obs.] 

FEMINEITY:  Womanliness; femininity. C. Read 

FEMININE:  Any one of those words which are the appellations of females, or which have the terminations usually found in such words; as, actress, songstress, abbess, executrix. There are but few true feminines in English. Latham. 

FEMININELY:  In a feminine manner. Byron. 

FEMININENESS:  The quality of being feminine; womanliness; womanishness.  FEMININE RHYME Feminine rhyme. (Pros.)  See Female rhyme, under Female, a.  Syn.  -- See Female, a. 

FEMINITY:  Womanliness; femininity. [Obs.] "Trained up in true feminity." Spenser. 

FEMINIZATION:  The act of feminizing, or the state of being feminized. 

FEMINIZE:  To make womanish or effeminate. Dr. H. More. 

FEMINYE:  The people called Amazons. [Obs.] "[The reign of] feminye." Chaucer. 

FEMME:  A woman. See Feme, n. Femme de chambre. Etym: [F.] A lady's maid; a chambermaid. 

FEMORAL:  Pertaining to the femur or thigh; as, the femoral artery. "Femoral habiliments." Sir W. Scott. 

FEN:  Low land overflowed, or covered wholly or partially with water, but producing sedge, coarse grasses, or other aquatic plants; boggy land; moor; marsh. 'Mid reedy fens wide spread. Wordsworth.  Note: Fen is used adjectively with the sense of belonging to, or of the nature of, a fen or fens. Fen boat, a boat of light draught used in marshes.  -- Fen duck (Zoöl.), a wild duck inhabiting fens; the shoveler. [Prov. Eng.] -- Fen fowl (Zoöl.), any water fowl that frequent fens.  -- Fen goose (Zoöl.), the graylag goose of Europe. [Prov. Eng.] -- Fen land, swamp land. 

FENCE:  A projection on the bolt, which passes through the tumbler gates in locking and unlocking.  4. Self-defense by the use of the sword; the art and practice of fencing and sword play; hence, skill in debate and repartee. See Fencing. Enjoy your dear wit, and gay rhetoric, That hath so well been taught her dazzing fence. Milton. Of dauntless courage and consummate skill in fence. Macaulay.  5. A receiver of stolen goods, or a place where they are received. [Slang] Mayhew. 

FENCEFUL:  Affording defense; defensive. [Obs.] Congreve. 

FENCELESS:  Without a fence; uninclosed; open; unguarded; defenseless. Milton.  FENCE MONTH Fence month (Forest Law),  the month in which female deer are fawning, when hunting is prohibited. Bullokar.  -- Fence roof, a covering for defense. "They fitted their shields close to one another in manner of a fence roof." Holland. Fence time, the breeding time of fish or game, when they should not be killed.  -- Rail fence, a fence made of rails, sometimes supported by posts.  -- Ring fence, a fence which encircles a large area, or a whole estate, within one inclosure.  -- Worm fence, a zigzag fence composed of rails crossing one another at their ends; -- called also snake fence, or Virginia rail fence.  -- To be on the fence, to be undecided or uncommitted in respect to two opposing parties or policies. [Colloq.] 

FENCER:  One who fences; one who teaches or practices the art of fencing with sword or foil. As blunt as the fencer's foils. Shak.  FENCI-BLE Fen"ci-ble, a.  Capable of being defended, or of making or affording defense. [Obs.] No fort so fencible, nor walls so strong. Spenser. 

FENCIBLE:  A soldier enlisted for home service only; -- usually in the pl. 

FENCING:  The mole cricket. [Prov. Eng.] 

FEND:  A fiend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FEND:  To keep off; to prevent from entering or hitting; to ward off; to shut out; -- often with off; as, to fend off blows. With fern beneath to fend the bitter cold. Dryden. To fend off a boat or vessel (Naut.), to prevent its running against anything with too much violence. 

FEND:  To act on the defensive, or in opposition; to resist; to parry; to shift off. The dexterous management of terms, and being able to fend . . . with them, passes for a great part of learning. Locke. 

FENDER:  One who or that which defends or protects by warding off harm; as: (a) A screen to prevent coals or sparks of an open fire from escaping to the floor. (b) Anything serving as a cushion to lessen the shock when a vessel comes in contact with another vessel or a wharf. (c) A screen to protect a carriage from mud thrown off the wheels: also, a splashboard. (d) Anything set up to protect an exposed angle, as of a house, from damage by carriage wheels. 

FENDLICHE:  Fiendlike. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FENERATE:  To put money to usury; to lend on interest. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

FENERATION:  The act of fenerating; interest. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  FENES-TELLA Fen`es-tel"la, n. Etym: [L., dim. of fenestra (Arch.)  Any small windowlike opening or recess, esp. one to show the relics within an altar, or the like. 

FENESTRA:  A small opening; esp., one of the apertures, closed by membranes, between the tympanum and internal ear. 

FENESTRAL:  Pertaining to a window or to windows.  2. (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to a fenestra. 

FENESTRAL:  A casement or window sash, closed with cloth or paper instead of glass. Weale. 

FENESTRATE:  Having transparent spots, as the wings of certain butterflies. 

FENESTRATED:  Having windows; characterized by windows.  2. Same as Fenestrate. 

FENESTRATION:  The arrangement and proportioning of windows; -- used by modern writers for the decorating of an architectural composition by means of the window (and door) openings, their ornaments, and proportions.  2. (Anat.)  The state or condition of being fenestrated. 

FENESTRULE:  One of the openings in a fenestrated structure.  FENG-HWANG Fêng"-hwang`, n. [Chin. feng + 'huang.] (Chinese Myth.)  A pheasantlike bird of rich plumage and graceful form and movement, fabled to appear in the land on the accession of a sage to the throne, or when right principles are about to prevail. It is often represented on porcelains and other works of art. 

FENGITE:  A kind of marble or alabaster, sometimes used for windows on account of its transparency.  FENG-SHUI Fêng"-shu`i, n. [Chin. feng wind + shiu water.]  A system of spirit influences for good and evil believed by the Chinese to attend the natural features of landscape; also, a kind of geomancy dealing with these influences, used in determining sites for graves, houses, etc. 

FENIAN:  A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly of Irishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule in ireland. 

FENIAN:  Pertaining to Fenians or to Fenianism. 

FENIANISM:  The principles, purposes, and methods of the Fenians. 

FENKS:  The refuse whale blubber, used as a manure, and in the manufacture of Prussian blue. Ure. 

FENNEC:  A small, African, foxlike animal (Vulpes zerda) of a pale fawn color, remarkable for the large size of its ears. 

FENNEL:  A perennial plant of the genus Fæniculum (F.vulgare), having very finely divided leaves. It is cultivated in gardens for the agreeable aromatic flavor of its seeds. Smell of sweetest fennel. Milton. A sprig of fennel was in fact the theological smelling bottle of the tender sex. S. G. Goodrich. Azorean, or Sweet, fennel, (Fæniculum dulce). It is a smaller and stouter plant than the common fennel, and is used as a pot herb.  -- Dog's fennel (Anthemis Cotula), a foul-smelling European weed; -- called also mayweed.  -- Fennel flower (Bot.), an herb (Nigella) of the Buttercup family, having leaves finely divided, like those of the fennel. N.Damascena is common in gardens. N.sativa furnishes the fennel seed, used as a condiment, etc., in India. These seeds are the "fitches" mentioned in Isaiah (xxviii. 25).  -- Fennel water (Med.), the distilled water of fennel seed. It is stimulant and carminative.  -- Giant fennel (Ferula communis), has stems full of pith, which, it is said, were used to carry fire, first, by Prometheus.  -- Hog's fennel, a European plant (Peucedanum officinale) looking something like fennel. 

FENNISH:  Abounding in fens; fenny. 

FENNY:  Pertaining to, or inhabiting, a fen; abounding in fens; swampy; boggy. "Fenny snake." Shak. 

FENOWED:  Corrupted; decayed; moldy. See Vinnewed. [Obs.] Dr. Favour.  FENSI-BLE Fen"si-ble, a.  Fencible. [Obs.] Spenser.  FEN-SUCKED Fen"-sucked`, a.  Sucked out of marches. "Fen-sucked fogs." Shak. 

FENUGREEK:  A plant (trigonella Foenum Græcum) cultivated for its strong- smelling seeds, which are "now only used for giving false importance to horse medicine and damaged hay." J. Smith (Pop. Names of Plants, 1881). 

FEOD:  A feud. See 2d Feud. Blackstone. 

FEODAL:  Feudal. See Feudal. 

FEODALITY:  Feudal tenure; the feudal system. See Feudality. Burke. 

FEODARY:  An ancient officer of the court of wards. Burrill. 

FEODATORY:  See Feudatory. 

FEOFF:  , v. t. [imp. & p. p. Feoffed; p. pr. & vb. n.. Feoffing.] Etym: [OE. feffen, OF. feffer, fieffer, F. fieffer, fr. fief fief; cf. LL. feoffare, fefare. See Fief.] (Law)  To invest with a fee or feud; to give or grant a corporeal hereditament to; to enfeoff. 

FEOFF:  A fief. See Fief. 

FEOFFEE:  The person to whom a feoffment is made; the person enfeoffed. 

FEOFFMENT:  One who enfeoffs or grants a fee. 

FER:  Far. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERACIOUS:  Fruitful; producing abudantly. [R.] Thomson. 

FERACITY:  The state of being feracious or fruitful. [Obs.] Beattie. 

FERAE:  A group of mammals which formerly included the Carnivora, Insectivora, Marsupialia, and lemurs, but is now often restricted to the Carnivora.  FERAE NATURAE Fe"ræ na*tu"ræ. Etym: [L.]  Of a wild nature; -- applied to animals, as foxes, wild ducks, etc., in which no one can claim property. 

FERAL:  Wild; untamed; ferine; not domesticated; -- said of beasts, birds, and plants. feral child, not raised by humans 

FERAL:  Funereal; deadly; fatal; dangerous. [R.] "Feral accidents." Burton. 

FERDE:  imp. of Fare. Chaucer.  FER-DE-LANCE Fer`-de-lance", n. Etym: [F., the iron of a lance, lance head.] (Zoöl.)  A large, venomous serpent (Trigonocephalus lanceolatus) of Brazil and the West Indies. It is allied to the rattlesnake, but has no rattle. 

FERDING:  A measure of land mentioned in Domesday Book. It is supposed to have consisted of a few acres only. [Obs.] 

FERDNESS:  Fearfulness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERE:  A mate or companion; -- often used of a wife. [Obs.] [Written also fear and feere.] Chaucer. And Cambel took Cambrina to his fere. Spenser. In fere, together; in company. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERE:  Fierce. [Obs.] 

FERE:  Fire. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERE:  Fear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERE:  To fear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERETORY:  A portable bier or shrine, variously adorned, used for containing relics of saints. Mollett. 

FERFORTH:  Far forth. [Obs.] As ferforth as, as far as.  -- So ferforth, to such a degree. 

FERFORTHLY:  Ferforth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERGUSONITE:  A mineral of a brownish black color, essentially a tantalo- niobate of yttrium, erbium, and cerium; -- so called after Robert Ferguson. 

FERIA:  A week day, esp. a day which is neither a festival nor a fast. Shipley. 

FERIAL:  Same as Feria. 

FERIATION:  The act of keeping holiday; cessation from work. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FERIE:  A holiday. [Obs.] Bullokar. 

FERIER:  , compar. of Fere, fierce. [Obs.] Rhenus ferier than the cataract. Marston. 

FERINE:  Wild; untamed; savage; as, lions, tigers, wolves, and bears are ferine beasts. Sir M. Hale.  -- n.  A wild beast; a beast of prey.  -- Fe"rine*ly, adv.  -- Fe"rine*ness, n. 

FERINGEE:  The name given to Europeans by the Hindos. [Written also Feringhee.] 

FERITY:  Wildness; savageness; fierceness. [Obs.] Woodward. 

FERLY:  Singular; wonderful; extraordinary. [Obs.] -- n.  A wonder; a marvel. [Obs.] Who hearkened ever such a ferly thing. Chaucer.  FERM; FERME Ferm, Ferme, n.Etym: [See Farm.]  Rent for a farm; a farm; also, an abode; a place of residence; as, he let his land to ferm. [Obs.] Out of her fleshy ferme fled to the place of pain. Spenser. 

FERMACY:  Medicine; pharmacy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERMENT:  To cause ferment of fermentation in; to set in motion; to excite internal emotion in; to heat. Ye vigorous swains! while youth ferments your blood. Pope. 

FERMENTABILITY:  Capability of fermentation. 

FERMENTABLE:  Capable of fermentation; as, cider and other vegetable liquors are fermentable. 

FERMENTAL:  Fermentative. [Obs.] 

FERMENTATION:  The theory which likens the course of certain diseases (esp. infectious diseases) to the process of fermentation, and attributes them to the organized ferments in the body. It does not differ materially from the accepted germ theory (which see). 

FERMENTATIVE:  Causing, or having power to cause, fermentation; produced by fermentation; fermenting; as, a fermentative process.  -- Fer*ment"a*tive*ly, adv.  -- Fer*ment"a*tive*ness, n. 

FERMERERE:  The officer in a religious house who had the care of the infirmary. [Obs.] 

FERMETURE:  The mechanism for closing the breech of a breech-loading firearm, in artillery consisting principally of the breechblock, obturator, and carrier ring. 

FERMILLET:  A buckle or clasp. [Obs.] Donne. 

FERN:  Long ago. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERN:  Ancient; old. [Obs.] "Pilgrimages to . . . ferne halwes." [saints]. Chaucer. 

FERN:  An order of cryptogamous plants, the Filices, which have their fructification on the back of the fronds or leaves. They are usually found in humid soil, sometimes grow epiphytically on trees, and in tropical climates often attain a gigantic size.  Note: The plants are asexual, and bear clustered sporangia, containing minute spores, which germinate and form prothalli, on which are borne the true organs of reproduction. The brake or bracken, the maidenhair, and the polypody are all well known ferns. Christmas fern. See under Christmas.  -- Climbing fern (Bot.), a delicate North American fern (Lygodium palmatum), which climbs several feet high over bushes, etc., and is much sought for purposes of decoration.  -- Fern owl. (Zoöl.) (a) The European goatsucker. (b) The short- eared owl. [Prov. Eng.] -- Fern shaw, a fern thicket. [Eng.] R. Browning. 

FERNERY:  A place for rearing ferns. 

FERNTICLE:  A freckle on the skin, resembling the seed of fern. [Prov. Eng.] 

FERNY:  Abounding in ferns. 

FEROCIOUS:  Fierce; savage; wild; indicating cruelty; ravenous; rapacious; as, ferocious look or features; a ferocious lion. The humbled power of a ferocious enemy. Lowth.  Syn.  -- Ferocious, Fierce, Savage, Barbarous. When these words are applied to human feelings or conduct, ferocious describes the disposition; fierce, the haste and violence of an act; barbarous, the coarseness and brutality by which it was marked; savage, the cruel and unfeeling spirit which it showed. A man is ferocious in his temper, fierce in his actions, barbarous in the manner of carrying out his purposes, savage in the spirit and feelings expressed in his words or deeds.  -- Fe*ro"cious*ly, adv.  -- Fe*ro"cious*ness, n. It [Christianity] has adapted the ferociousness of war. Blair. 

FEROCITY:  Savage wildness or fierceness; fury; cruelty; as, ferocity of countenance. The pride and ferocity of a Highland chief. Macaulay. 

FEROHER:  A symbol of the solar deity, found on monuments exhumed in Babylon, Nineveh, etc. 

FEROUS:  Wild; savage. [R.] Arthur Wilson.  -FEROUS -fer*ous. Etym: [L. -fer. fr. ferre to bear. See Bear to support.]  A suffix signifying bearing, producing, yielding; as, auriferous, yielding gold; chyliferous, producing chyle. 

FERRANDINE:  A stuff made of silk and wool. I did buy a colored silk ferrandine. Pepys.  FERRANTI CABLES; FERRANTI MAINS Fer*ran"ti ca"bles, Fer*ran"ti mains". (Elec.)  A form of conductor, designed by Ferranti, for currents of high potential, and consisting of concentric tubes of copper separated by an insulating material composed of paper saturated with black mineral wax.  FERRANTI PHENOMENON Fer*ran"ti phe*nom"e*non. (Elec.)  An increase in the ratio of transformation of an alternating current converter, accompanied by other changes in electrical conditions, occurring when the secondary of the converter is connected with a condenser of moderate capacity; -- so called because first observed in connection with the Ferranti cables in London. 

FERRARA:  A sword bearing the mark of one of the Ferrara family of Italy. These swords were highly esteemed in England and Scotland in the 16th and 17th centuries. 

FERRARESE:  Pertaining to Ferrara, in Italy.  -- n., sing. & pl.  A citizen of Ferrara; collectively, the inhabitants of Ferrara. 

FERRARY:  The art of working in iron. [Obs.] Chapman. 

FERRATE:  A salt of ferric acid.  FERRE; FERRER Fer"re, Fer"rer, a. & adv. Obs.  compar. of Fer. 

FERREOUS:  Partaking of, made of, or pertaining to, iron; like iron. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FERREST:  superl. of Fer. Chaucer. 

FERRET:  An animal of the Weasel family (Mustela or Putorius furo), about fourteen inches in length, of a pale yellow or white color, with red eyes. It is a native of Africa, but has been domesticated in Europe. Ferrets are used to drive rabbits and rats out of their holes. 

FERRET:  To drive or hunt out of a lurking place, as a ferret does the cony; to search out by patient and sagacious efforts; -- often used with out; as, to ferret out a secret. Master Fer! I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret him. Shak. 

FERRET:  A kind of narrow tape, usually made of woolen; sometimes of cotton or silk; -- called also ferreting. 

FERRET:  The iron used for trying the melted glass to see if is fit to work, and for shaping the rings at the mouths of bottles. 

FERRETER:  One who ferrets. Johnson.  FERRET-EYE Fer"ret-eye`, n. (Zoöl.)  The spur-winged goose; -- so called from the red circle around the eyes. 

FERRETTO:  Copper sulphide, used to color glass. Hebert.  FERRI- Fer"ri- (. (Chem.)  A combining form indicating ferric iron as an ingredient; as, ferricyanide. 

FERRIAGE:  The price or fare to be paid for passage at a ferry. 

FERRIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing iron. Specifically (Chem.), denoting those compounds in which iron has a higher valence than in the ferrous compounds; as, ferric oxide; ferric acid. Ferric acid (Chem.), an acid, H2FeO4, which is not known in the free state, but forms definite salts, analogous to the chromates and sulphates.  -- Ferric oxide (Chem.), sesquioxide of iron, Fe2O3; hematite. See Hematite. 

FERRICYANATE:  A salt of ferricyanic acid; a ferricyanide. 

FERRICYANIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, a ferricyanide. Ferricyanic acid (Chem.), a brown crystalline substance, H6(CN)12Fe2, obtained from potassium ferricyanide, and regarded as the type of the ferricyanides; -- called also hydro-ferricyanic acid, hydrogen ferricyanide, etc. 

FERRICYANIDE:  One of a complex series of double cyanides of ferric iron and some other base. Potassium ferricyanide (Chem.), red prussiate of potash; a dark, red, crystalline salt, K6(CN)12Fe2, consisting of the double cyanide of potassium and ferric iron. From it is derived the ferrous ferricyanate, Turnbull's blue. 

FERRIER:  A ferryman. Calthrop. 

FERRIFEROUS:  Producing or yielding iron. 

FERRIPRUSSIATE:  A ferricyanate; a ferricyanide. [R.] 

FERRIPRUSSIC:  Ferricyanic. [R.]  FERRIS WHEEL Fer"ris wheel.  An amusement device consisting of a giant power-driven steel wheel, revolvable on its stationary axle, and carrying a number of balanced passenger cars around its rim; -- so called after G. W. G. Ferris, American engineer, who erected the first of its kind for the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893.  FERRO- Fer"ro- (. (Chem.)  A prefix, or combining form, indicating ferrous iron as an ingredient; as, ferrocyanide. 

FERROCALCITE:  Limestone containing a large percentage of iron carbonate, and hence turning brown on exposure.  FERRO-CONCRETE Fer"ro-con"crete, n. (Arch. & Engin.)  Concrete strengthened by a core or foundation skeleton of iron or steel bars, strips, etc. Floors, columns, piles, water pipes, etc., have been successfully made of it. Called also armored concrete steel, and reënforced concrete. 

FERROCYANATE:  A salt of ferrocyanic acid; a ferrocyanide. 

FERROCYANIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a ferrocyanide. ferrocyanic acid (Chem.), a white crystalline substance, H4(CN)6Fe, of strong acid properties, obtained from potassium ferrocyanide, and regarded as the type of the ferrocyanides; -- called also hydro- ferrocyanic acid, hydrogen ferrocyanide. etc. 

FERROCYANIDE:  One of a series of complex double cyanides of ferrous iron and some other base. Potassium ferrocyanide (Chem.), yellow prussiate of potash; a tough, yellow, crystalline salt, K4(CN)6Fe, the starting point in the manufacture of almost all cyanogen compounds, and the basis of the ferric ferrocyanate, prussian blue. It is obtained by strongly heating together potash, scrap iron, and animal matter containing nitrogen, as horn, leather, blood, etc., in iron pots. 

FERROPRUSSIATE:  A ferrocyanate; a ferocyanide. [R.] 

FERROPRUSSIC:  Ferrocyanic.  FERROSO- Fer*ro"so- (. (Chem.)  See Ferro-. 

FERROTYPE:  A photographic picture taken on an iron plate by a collodion process; -- familiarly called tintype. 

FERROUS:  Pertaining to, or derived from, iron; -- especially used of compounds of iron in which the iron has its lower valence; as, ferrous sulphate. 

FERRUGINATED:  Having the color or properties of the rust of iron. 

FERRUGINEOUS:  Ferruginous. [R.] 

FERRUGO:  A disease of plants caused by fungi, commonly called the rust, from its resemblance to iron rust in color. 

FERRULE:  A bushing for expanding the end of a flue to fasten it tightly in the tube plate, or for partly filling up its mouth. 

FERRUMINATE:  To solder or unite, as metals. [R.] Coleridge. 

FERRUMINATION:  The soldering ir uniting of me [R.] Coleridge. 

FERRY:  To carry or transport over a river, strait, or other narrow water, in a boat. 

FERRY:  To pass over water in a boat or by a ferry. They ferry over this Lethean sound Both to and fro. Milton. 

FERRYBOAT:  A vessel for conveying passengers, merchandise, etc., across streams and other narrow waters. 

FERRYMAN:  One who maintains or attends a ferry. 

FERS:  Fierce. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERTHE:  Fourth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FERTILELY:  In a fertile or fruitful manner. 

FERTILENESS:  Fertility. Sir P. Sidney. 

FERTILITATE:  To fertilize; to fecundate. Sir T. Browne. 

FERTILITY:  The state or quality of being fertile or fruitful; fruitfulness; productiveness; fecundity; richness; abundance of resources; fertile invention; quickness; readiness; as, the fertility of soil, or of imagination. "fertility of resource." E. Everett. And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps Corrupting in its own fertility. Shak. Thy very weeds are beautiful; thy waste More rich than other climes' fertility. Byron. 

FERTILIZATION:  The act of fecundating or impregnating animal or vegetable germs; esp., the process by which in flowers the pollen renders the ovule fertile, or an analogous process in flowerless plants; fecundation; impregnation. Close fertilization (Bot.), the fertilization of pistils by pollen derived from the stamens of the same blossom.  -- Cross fertilization, fertilization by pollen from some other blossom. See under Cross, a. 

FERULACEOUS:  Pertaining to reeds and canes; having a stalk like a reed; as, ferulaceous plants. 

FERULAR:  A ferule. [Obs.] Milton. 

FERULE:  A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on the hand, in punishment. 

FERULE:  To punish with a ferule. 

FERULIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, asafetida (Ferula asafoetida); as, ferulic acid. [Written also ferulaic.] 

FERVENCE:  Heat; fervency. [Obs.] 

FERVENCY:  The state of being fervent or warm; ardor; warmth of feeling or devotion; eagerness. When you pray, let it be with attention, with fervency, and with perseverance. Wake. 

FERVESCENT:  Growing hot. 

FESCENNINE:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the Fescennines.  -- n.  A style of low, scurrilous, obscene poetry originating in fescennia. 

FESCUE:  A grass of the genus Festuca. Fescue grass (Bot.), a genus of grasses (Festuca) containing several species of importance in agriculture. Festuca ovina is sheep's fescue; F. elatior is meadow fescue. 

FESCUE:  To use a fescue, or teach with a fescue. Milton. 

FESELS:  See Phasel. [Obs.] May (Georgics).  FESS; FESSE Fess, Fesse, n. Etym: [OF. fesse, faisse, F. fasce, fr. L. fascia band. See Fascia.] (Her.)  A band drawn horizontally across the center of an escutcheon, and containing in breadth the third part of it; one of the nine honorable ordinaries. Fess point (Her.), the exact center of the escutcheon. See Escutcheon. 

FESSITUDE:  Weariness. [Obs.] Bailey. 

FESSWISE:  In the manner of fess. 

FEST:  The fist. [Obs.] Chaucer.  FEST; FESTE Fest, Fes"te, n.  A feast. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FESTAL:  Of or pertaining to a holiday or a feast; joyous; festive. You bless with choicer wine the festal day. Francis. 

FESTALLY:  Joyously; festively; mirthfully. 

FESTENNINE:  A fescennine. 

FESTER:  To cause to fester or rankle. For which I burnt in inward, swelt'ring hate, And fstered ranking malice in my breast. Marston. 

FESTERMENT:  A festering. [R.] Chalmers. 

FESTEYE:  To feast; to entertain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FESTINATE:  Hasty; hurried. [Obs.] -- Fes"ti*nate*ly, adv. [Obs.] Shak. 

FESTINATION:  Haste; hurry. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FESTIVAL:  Pertaining to a fest; festive; festal; appropriate to a festival; joyous; mirthful. I cannot woo in festival terms. Shak.  FESTI-VAL Fes"ti-val, n.  A time of feasting or celebration; an anniversary day of joy, civil or religious. The morning trumpets festival proclaimed. Milton.  Syn.  -- Feast; banquet; carousal. See Feast. 

FESTIVE:  Pertaining to, or becoming, a feast; festal; joyous; gay; mirthful; sportive.  -- Fes"tive*ly, adv. The glad circle round them yield their souls To festive mirth and wit that knows no gall. Thomson. 

FESTIVOUS:  Pertaining to a feast; festive. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

FESTLICH:  Festive; fond of festive occasions. [Obs.] "A festlich man." Chaucer. 

FESTOON:  A carved ornament consisting of flowers, and leaves, intermixed or twisted together, wound with a ribbon, and hanging or depending in a natural curve. See Illust. of Bucranium. 

FESTOON:  To form in festoons, or to adorn with festoons. 

FESTOONY:  Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, festoons. Sir J. Herschel. 

FESTUCINE:  Of a straw color; greenish yellow. [Obs.] A little insect of a festucine or pale green. Sir T. Browne. 

FESTUCOUS:  Formed or consisting of straw. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FESTUE:  A straw; a fescue. [Obs.] Holland. 

FET:  A piece. [Obs.] Dryton. 

FET:  To fetch. [Obs.] And from the other fifty soon the prisoner fet. Spenser. 

FET:  Fetched. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FETAL:  Pertaining to, or connected with, a fetus; as, fetal circulation; fetal membranes. 

FETATION:  The formation of a fetus in the womb; pregnancy. 

FETCH:  To bring one's self; to make headway; to veer; as, to fetch about; to fetch to windward. Totten. To fetch away (Naut.), to break loose; to roll slide to leeward.  -- To fetch and carry, to serve obsequiously, like a trained spaniel. 

FETCHER:  One wo fetches or brings. 

FETE:  A feat. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FETE:  Feet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FETE:  A festival. Fête champêtre ( Etym: [F.], a festival or entertainment in the open air; a rural festival. 

FETE:  To feast; to honor with a festival.  FETICH; FETISH Fe"tich, Fe"tish, n.Etym: [F. fétiche, from Pg. feiti, adj., n., sorcery, charm, fr. L. facticius made by art, artifical, factitious. See Factitious.]  1. A material object supposed among certain African tribes to represent in such a way, or to be so connected with, a supernatural being, that the possession of it gives to the possessor power to control that being.  2. Any object to which one is excessively devoted.  FETICHISM; FETISHISM fe"tich*ism, Fe"tish*ism ( or ); 277), n.Etym: [Cf. F. fétichisme.] [Written also feticism.]  1. The doctrine or practice of belief in fetiches.  2. Excessive devotion to one object or one idea; abject superstition; blind adoration. The real and absolute worship of fire falls into two great divisions, the first belonging rather to fetichism, the second to polytheism proper. Tylor.  FETICHIST; FETISHIST Fe"tich*ist, Fe"tish*ist, n.  A believer in fetiches. He was by nature a fetichist. H. Holbeach.  FETICHISTIC; FETISHISTIC Fe`tich*is"tic, Fe`tish*is"tic, a.  Pertaining to, or involving, fetichism. A man of the fifteenth century, inheriting its strange web of belief and unbelief, of epicurean levity and fetichistic dread. G. Eliot. 

FETICIDE:  The act of killing the fetus in the womb; the offense of procuring an abortion. 

FETICISM:  See Fetichism. 

FETID:  Having an offensive smell; stinking. Most putrefactions . . . smell either fetid or moldy. Bacon. 

FETIDITY:  Fetidness. 

FETIDNESS:  The quality or state of being fetid. 

FETIFEROUS:  Producing young, as animals. 

FETIS:  Neat; pretty; well made; graceful. [Obs.] Full fetis was her cloak, as I was ware. Chaucer. 

FETISELY:  Neatly; gracefully; properly. [Obs.] Chaucer.  FETISH; FETISHISM; FETISHIST; FETISHISTIC Fe"tish, n., Fe"tish*ism, n., Fe"tishist, n., Fe`tish*is"tic (, a.  See Fetich, n., Fetichism, n., Fetichistic, a. 

FETLOCK:  The cushionlike projection, bearing a tuft of long hair, on the back side of the leg above the hoof of the horse and similar animals. Also, the joint of the limb at this point (between the great pastern bone and the metacarpus), or the tuft of hair. Their wounded steeds Fret fetlock deep in gore. Shak. 

FETOR:  A strong, offensive smell; stench; fetidness. Arbuthnot. 

FETTE:  To fetch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FETTER:  1. To put fetters upon; to shakle or confine the feet of with a chain; to bind. My heels are fettered, but my fist is free. Milton.  2. To reastrain from motion; to impose restrains on; to confine; to enchain; as, fettered by obligations. My conscience! thou art fettered More than my shanks and wrists. Shak. 

FETTERED:  Seeming as if fettered, as the feet pf certain animals which bend backward, and appear unfit for walking. 

FETTERER:  One who fetters. Landor. 

FETTERLESS:  Free from fetters. Marston. 

FETTLE:  1. To repair; to prepare; to put in order. [Prov. Eng.] Carlyle.  2. (Metal.)  To cover or line with a mixture of ore, cinders, etc., as the hearth of a puddling furnace. 

FETTLE:  To make preparations; to put things in order; to do trifling business. [Prov. Eng.] Bp. Hall. 

FETTLE:  The act of fettling. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. In fine fettle, in good spirits. 

FETTLING:  A mixture of ore, cinders, etc., used to line the hearth of a puddling furnace. [Eng.] [It is commonly called fix in the United States.]  2. (Pottery)  The operation of shaving or smoothing the surface of undried clay ware. 

FETUOUS:  Neat; feat. [Obs.] Herrick. 

FETUS:  The young or embryo of an animal in the womb, or in the egg; often restricted to the later stages in the development of viviparous and oviparous animals, embryo being applied to the earlier stages. [Written also foetus.] 

FETWAH:  A written decision of a Turkish mufti on some point of law. Whitworth. 

FEU:  A free and gratuitous right to lands made to one for service to be performed by him; a tenure where the vassal, in place of military services, makes a return in grain or in money. Burrill. 

FEUAR:  One who holds a feu. Sir W. Scott. 

FEUD:  A stipendiary estate in land, held of superior, by service; the right which a vassal or tenant had to the lands or other immovable thing of his lord, to use the same and take the profists thereof hereditarily, rendering to his superior such duties and services as belong to military tenure, etc., the property of the soil always remaining in the lord or superior; a fief; a fee. 

FEUDALISM:  The feudal system; a system by which the holding of estates in land is made dependent upon an obligation to render military service to the kind or feudal superior; feudal principles and usages. 

FEUDALIST:  An upholder of feudalism. 

FEUDALITY:  The state or quality of being feudal; feudal form or constitution. Burke. 

FEUDALIZATION:  The act of reducing to feudal tenure. 

FEUDALIZE:  To reduce toa feudal tenure; to conform to feudalism. 

FEUDALLY:  In a feudal manner. 

FEUDARY:  Held by, or pertaining to, feudal tenure. 

FEUDATARY:  See Feudatory. 

FEUDATORY:  A tenant or vassal who held his lands of a superior on condition of feudal service; the tenant of a feud or fief. The grantee . . . was styled the feudatory or vassal. Blackstone. [He] had for feudatories great princes. J. H. Newman. 

FEUDATORY:  Held from another on some conditional tenure; as, a feudatory title. Bacon.  FEU DE JOIE Feu` de joie". Etym: [F., lit., fire of joy.]  A fire kindled in a public place in token of joy; a bonfire; a firing of guns in token of joy. 

FEUDIST:  A writer on feuds; a person versed in feudal law. Spelman. 

FEUILLANTS:  A reformed branch of the Bernardines, founded in 1577 at Feuillans, near Toulouse, in France. 

FEUILLEMORT:  Having the color of a faded leaf. Locke. 

FEUILLETON:  A part of a French newspaper (usually the bottom of the page), devoted to light literature, criticism, etc.; also, the article or tale itself, thus printed. 

FEUILLTONIST:  A writer of feuilletons. F. Harrison. 

FEUTER:  To set close; to fix in rest, as a spear. Spenser. 

FEUTERER:  A dog keeper. [Obs.] Massinger. 

FEVER:  A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat, acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of the functions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite. Many diseases, of which fever is the most prominent symptom, are denominated fevers; as, typhoid fever; yellow fever.  Note: Remitting fevers subside or abate at intervals; intermitting fevers intermit or entirely cease at intervals; continued or continual fevers neither remit nor intermit.  2. Excessive excitement of the passions in consequence of strong emotion; a condition of great excitement; as, this quarrel has set my blood in a fever. An envious fever Of pale and bloodless emulation. Shak. After life's fitful fever he sleeps well. Shak. Brain fever, Continued fever, etc. See under Brain, Continued, etc.  -- Fever and ague, a form of fever recurring in paroxysms which are preceded by chills. It is of malarial origin.  -- Fever blister (Med.), a blister or vesicle often found about the mouth in febrile states; a variety of herpes.  -- Fever bush (Bot.), the wild allspice or spice bush. See Spicewood.  -- Fever powder. Same as Jame's powder.  -- Fever root (Bot.), an American herb of the genus Triosteum (T. perfoliatum); -- called also feverwort amd horse gentian.  -- Fever sore, a carious ulcer or necrosis. Miner. 

FEVER:  To put into a fever; to affect with fever; as, a fevered lip. [R.] The white hand of a lady fever thee. Shak. 

FEVERET:  A slight fever. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

FEVERFEW:  A perennial plant (Pyrethrum, or Chrysanthemum, Parthenium) allied to camomile, having finely divided leaves and white blossoms; -- so named from its supposed febrifugal qualities. 

FEVEROUSLY:  Feverishly. [Obs.] Donne. 

FEVERWORT:  See Fever root, under Fever. 

FEVERY:  Feverish. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

FEW:  Not many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicating a small portion of units or individuals constituing a whole; often, by ellipsis of a noun, a few people. "Are not my days few" Job x. 20. Few know and fewer care. Proverb.  Note: Few is often used partitively; as, few of them. A few, a small number.  -- In few, in a few words; briefly. Shak. - No few, not few; more than a few; many. Cowper. - The few, the minority; -- opposed to the many or the majority. 

FEWEL:  Fuel. [Obs.] Hooker. 

FEWMET:  See Fumet. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

FEY:  Fated; doomed. [Old Eng. & Scot.] 

FEY:  Faith. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FEY:  To cleanse; to clean out. [Obs.] Tusser. 

FEYNE:  To feign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FEYRE:  A fair or market. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FEZ:  A felt or cloth cap, usually red and having a tassel, -- a variety of the tarboosh. See Tarboosh. B. Taylor. 

FIACRE:  A kind of French hackney coach. 

FIANCE:  To betroth; to affiance. [Obs.] Harmar. 

FIANCE:  A betrothed man. 

FIANCEE:  A betrothed woman. 

FIANTS:  The dung of the fox, wolf, boar, or badger. 

FIAR:  One in whom the property of an estate is vested, subject to the estate of a life renter. I am fiar of the lands; she a life renter. Sir W. Scott.  2. pl.  The price of grain, as legally fixed, in the counties of Scotland, for the current year. 

FIASCO:  A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musical performance, or of any pretentious undertaking. 

FIAUNT:  Commission; fiat; order; decree. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FIB:  A falsehood; a lie; -- used euphemistically. They are very serious; they don't tell fibs. H. James. 

FIB:  To speak falsely. [Colloq.] 

FIB:  To tell a fib to. [R.] De Quincey. 

FIBBER:  One who tells fibs.  FIBER; FIBRE Fi"ber, Fi"bre, (, n. Etym: [F. fibre, L. fibra.]  1. One of the delicate, threadlike portions of which the tissues of plants and animals are in part constituted; as, the fiber of flax or of muscle.  2. Any fine, slender thread, or threadlike substance; as, a fiber of spun glass; especially, one of the slender rootlets of a plant.  3. Sinew; strength; toughness; as, a man of real fiber. Yet had no fibers in him, nor no force. Chapman.  4. A general name for the raw material, such as cotton, flax, hemp, etc., used in textile manufactures. Fiber gun, a kind of steam gun for converting, wood, straw, etc., into fiber. The material is shut up in the gun with steam, air, or gas at a very high pressure which is afterward relieved suddenly by letting a lid at the muzzle fly open, when the rapid expansion separates the fibers.  -- Fiber plants (Bot.), plants capable of yielding fiber useful in the arts, as hemp, flax, ramie, agave, etc.  FIBERED; FIBRED Fi"bered, Fi"bred, a.  Having fibers; made up of fibers.  FIBER-FACED; FIBRE-FACED Fi"ber-faced`, Fi"bre-faced`, a.  Having a visible fiber embodied in the surface of; -- applied esp. to a kind of paper for checks, drafts, etc.  FIBERLESS; FIBRELESS Fi"ber*less, Fi"bre*less, a.  Having no fibers; destitute of fibers or fiber. 

FIBRIFORM:  Having the form of a fiber or fibers; resembling a fiber. 

FIBRIL:  A small fiber; the branch of a fiber; a very slender thread; a fibrilla. Cheyne. 

FIBRILLA:  A minute thread of fiber, as one of the fibrous elements of a muscular fiber; a fibril. 

FIBRILLAR:  Of or pertaining to fibrils or fibers; as, fibrillar twitchings. 

FIBRILLARY:  Of of pertaining to fibrils. 

FIBRILLATED:  Furnished with fibrils; fringed. 

FIBRILLATION:  The state of being reduced to fibers. Carpenter. 

FIBRILLOSE:  Covered with hairlike appendages, as the under surface of some lichens; also, composed of little strings or fibers; as, fibrillose appendages. 

FIBRILLOUS:  Pertaining to, or composed of, fibers. 

FIBRINATION:  The state of acquiring or having an excess of fibrin. 

FIBRINE:  Belonging to the fibers of plants. 

FIBRINOGEN:  An albuminous substance existing in the blood, and in other animal fluids, which either alone or with fibrinoplastin or paraglobulin forms fibrin, and thus causes coagulation. 

FIBRINOGENOUS:  Possessed of properties similar to fibrinogen; capable of forming fibrin. 

FIBRINOPLASTIC:  Like fibrinoplastin; capable of forming fibrin when brought in contact with fibrinogen. 

FIBRINOPLASTIN:  An albuminous substance, existing in the blood, which in combination with fibrinogen forms fibrin; -- called also paraglobulin. 

FIBRINOUS:  Having, or partaking of the properties of, fibrin; as, fibrious exudation. 

FIBROCARTILAGE:  A kind of cartilage with a fibrous matrix and approaching fibrous connective tissue in structure.  -- Fi`bro*car`ti*lag"i*nous, a. 

FIBROCHONDROSTEAL:  Partly fibrous, partly cartilaginous, and partly osseous. St. George Mivart. 

FIBROID:  Resembling or forming fibrous tissue; made up of fibers; as, fibroid tumors.  -- n.  A fibroid tumor; a fibroma. Fibroid degeneration, a form of degeneration in which organs or tissues are converted into fibroid tissue.  -- Fibroid phthists, a form of pulmonary consumption associated with the formation of fibrous tissue in the lungs, and the gradual atrophy of the lungs, from the pressure due to the contraction of this tissue. 

FIBROIN:  A variety of gelatin; the chief ingredient of raw silk, extracted as a white amorphous mass. 

FIBROLITE:  A silicate of alumina, of fibrous or columnar structure. It is like andalusite in composition; -- called also sillimanite, and bucholizite. 

FIBROMA:  A tumor consisting mainly of fibrous tissue, or of same modification of such tissue. 

FIBROSPONGIAE:  An order of sponges having a fibrous skeleton, including the commercial sponges. 

FIBROUS:  Containing, or consisting of, fibers; as, the fibrous coat of the cocoanut; the fibrous roots of grasses.  -- Fi"brous*ness, n. 

FIBROVASCULAR:  Containing woody fiber and ducts, as the stems of all flowering plants and ferns; -- opposed to cellular. 

FIBSTER:  One who tells fibs. [Jocular] 

FIBULA:  The outer and usually the smaller of the two bones of the leg, or hind limb, below the knee.  3. (Surg.)  A needle for sewing up wounds.  FIBU-LAR Fib"u-lar, a.  Pertaining to the fibula. 

FIBULARE:  The bone or cartilage of the tarsus, which articulates with the fibula, and corresponds to the calcaneum in man and most mammals. 

FICE:  A small dog; -- written also fise, fyce, fiste, etc. [Southern U.S.] 

FICHE:  See FitchÉ. 

FICHTELITE:  A white crystallized mineral resin from the Fichtelgebirge, Bavaria. 

FICHU:  A light cape, usually of lace, worn by women, to cover the neck and throat, and extending to the shoulders. 

FICKLE:  Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeable mind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as, Fortune's fickle wheel. Shak. They know how fickle common lovers are. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Wavering; irresolute; unsettled; vacillating; unstable; inconsonant; unsteady; variable; mutable; changeful; capricious; veering; shifting. 

FICKLENESS:  The quality of being fickle; instability; inconsonancy. Shak. 

FICKLY:  In a fickle manner. [Obs.] Pepys. 

FICO:  A fig; an insignificant trifle, no more than the snap of one's thumb; a sign of contempt made by the fingers, expressing. A fig for you. Steal! foh, a fico for the phrase. Shak. 

FICTILE:  Molded, or capable of being molded, into form by art; relating to pottery or to molding in any soft material. Fictile earth is more fragile than crude earth. Bacon. The earliest specimens of Italian fictile art. C. Wordsworth. Fictile ware, ware made of any material which is molded or shaped while soft; hence, pottery of any sort.  -- Fic"tile*ness, n.  -- Fic*til"i*ty, n. 

FICTION:  An assumption of a possible thing as a fact, irrespective of the question of its truth. Wharton.  5. Any like assumption made for convenience, as for passing more rapidly over what is not disputed, and arriving at points really at issue.  Syn.  -- Fabrication; invention; fable; falsehood.  -- Fiction, Fabrication. Fiction is opposed to what is real; fabrication to what is true. Fiction is designed commonly to amuse, and sometimes to instruct; a fabrication is always intended to mislead and deceive. In the novels of Sir Walter Scott we have fiction of the highest order. The poems of Ossian, so called, were chiefly fabrications by Macpherson. 

FICTIONAL:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, fiction; fictitious; romantic."Fictional rather than historical." Latham. 

FICTIONIST:  A writer of fiction. [R.] Lamb. 

FICTIOUS:  Fictitious. [R.] Prior. 

FICTITIOUS:  Feigned; imaginary; not real; fabulous; counterfeit; false; not genuine; as, fictitious fame. The human persons are as fictitious as the airy ones. Pope. -- Fic*ti"tious*ly, adv.  -- Fic*ti"tious*ness, n. 

FICTIVE:  Feigned; counterfeit. "The fount of fictive tears." Tennyson. 

FICTOR:  An artist who models or forms statues and reliefs in any plastic material. [R.] Elmes. 

FICUS:  A genus of trees or shrubs, one species of which (F. Carica) produces the figs of commerce; the fig tree.  Note: Ficus Indica is the banyan tree; F. religiosa, the peepul tree; F. elastica, the India-rubber tree. 

FID:  A square bar of wood or iron, used to support the topmast, being passed through a hole or mortise at its heel, and resting on the trestle trees.  2. A wooden or metal bar or pin, used to support or steady anything.  3. A pin of hard wood, tapering to a point, used to open the strands of a rope in splicing.  Note: There are hand fids and standing fids (which are larger than the others, and stand upon a flat base). An iron implement for this purpose is called a marline spike.  4. (Mil.)  A block of wood used in mounting and dismounting heavy guns. 

FIDALGO:  The lowest title of nobility in Portugal, corresponding to that of Hidalgo in Spain. 

FIDDLE:  A stringed instrument of music played with a bow; a violin; a kit.  2. (Bot.)  A kind of dock (Rumex pulcher) with fiddle-shaped leaves; -- called also fiddle dock.  3. (Naut.)  A rack or frame of bars connected by strings, to keep table furniture in place on the cabin table in bad weather. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Fiddle beetle (Zoöl.), a Japanese carabid beetle (Damaster blaptoides); -- so called from the form of the body.  -- Fiddle block (Naut.), a long tackle block having two sheaves of different diameters in the same plane, instead of side by side as in a common double block. Knight.  -- Fiddle bow, fiddlestick.  -- Fiddle fish (Zoöl.), the angel fish.  -- Fiddle head, an ornament on a ship's bow, curved like the volute or scroll at the head of a violin.  -- Fiddle pattern, a form of the handles of spoons, forks, etc., somewhat like a violin.  -- Scotch fiddle, the itch. (Low) -- To play first, or second, fiddle, to take a leading or a subordinate part. [Colloq.] 

FIDDLE:  To play (a tune) on a fiddle. 

FIDDLEDEEDEE:  An exclamatory word or phrase, equivalent to nonsense! [Colloq.]  FIDDLE-FADDLE Fid"dle-fad`dle, n.  A trifle; trifling talk; nonsense. [Colloq.] Spectator.  FIDDLE-FADDLE Fid"dle-fad`dle, v. i.  To talk nonsense. [Colloq.] Ford. 

FIDDLER:  A burrowing crab of the genus Gelasimus, of many species. The male has one claw very much enlarged, and often holds it in a position similar to that in which a musician holds a fiddle, hence the name; -- called also calling crab, soldier crab, and fighting crab.  3. (Zoöl.)  The common European sandpiper (Tringoides hypoleucus); -- so called because it continually oscillates its body. Fiddler crab. (Zoöl.) See Fiddler, n., 2.  FIDDLE-SHAPED Fid"dle-shaped`, a. (Bot.)  Inversely ovate, with a deep hollow on each side. Gray. 

FIDDLESTICK:  The bow, strung with horsehair, used in playing the fiddle; a fiddle bow. 

FIDDLESTRING:  One of the catgut strings of a fiddle. 

FIDDLEWOOD:  The wood of several West Indian trees, mostly of the genus Citharexylum. 

FIDEJUSSION:  The act or state of being bound as surety for another; suretyship. 

FIDEJUSSOR:  A surety; one bound for another, conjointly with him; a guarantor. Blackstone. 

FIDELITY:  Faithfulness; adherence to right; careful and exact observance of duty, or discharge of obligations. Especially: (a) Adherence to a person or party to which one is bound; loyalty. Whose courageous fidelity was proof to all danger. Macaulay. The best security for the fidelity of men is to make interest coincide with duty. A. Hamilton.  (b) Adherence to the marriage contract. (c) Adherence to truth; veracity; honesty. The principal thing required in a witness is fidelity. Hooker.  Syn.  -- Faithfulness; honesty; integrity; faith; loyalty; fealty. 

FIDES:  Faith personified as a goddess; the goddess of faith. 

FIDGE:  See Fidget. [R.] Swift. 

FIDGET:  To move uneasily one way and the other; to move irregularly, or by fits and starts. Moore. 

FIDGET:  A general nervous restlessness, manifested by incessant changes of position; dysphoria. Dunglison. 

FIDGETINESS:  Quality of being fidgety. 

FIDGETY:  Restless; uneasy. Lowell. 

FIDIA:  A genus of small beetles, of which one species (the grapevine Fidia, F. longipes) is very injurious to vines in America. 

FIDICINAL:  Of or pertaining to a stringed instrument. 

FIDUCIALLY:  With confidence. South. 

FIDUCIARY:  One who depends for salvation on faith, without works; an Antinomian. Hammond. 

FIE:  An exclamation denoting contempt or dislike. See Fy. Fuller. 

FIEF:  An estate held of a superior on condition of military service; a fee; a feud. See under Benefice, n., 2. 

FIELD:  The whole surface of an escutcheon; also, so much of it is shown unconcealed by the different bearings upon it. See Illust. of Fess, where the field is represented as gules (red), while the fess is argent (silver).  6. An unresticted or favorable opportunity for action, operation, or achievement; province; room. Afforded a clear field for moral experiments. Macaulay.  7. A collective term for all the competitors in any outdoor contest or trial, or for all except the favorites in the betting.  8. (Baseball)  That part of the grounds reserved for the players which is outside of the diamond; -- called also outfield.  Note: Field is often used adjectively in the sense of belonging to, or used in, the fields; especially with reference to the operations and equipments of an army during a campaign away from permanent camps and fortifications. In most cases such use of the word is sufficiently clear; as, field battery; field fortification; field gun; field hospital, etc. A field geologist, naturalist, etc., is one who makes investigations or collections out of doors. A survey uses a field book for recording field notes, i.e., measurment, observations, etc., made in field work (outdoor operations). A farmer or planter employs field hands, and may use a field roller or a field derrick. Field sports are hunting, fishing, athletic games, etc. Coal field (Geol.) See under Coal.  -- Field artillery, light ordnance mounted on wheels, for the use of a marching army.  -- Field basil (Bot.), a plant of the Mint family (Calamintha Acinos); -- called also basil thyme.  -- Field colors (Mil.), small flags for marking out the positions for squadrons and battalions; camp colors.  -- Field cricket (Zoöl.), a large European cricket (Gryllus campestric), remarkable for its loud notes.  -- Field day. (a) A day in the fields. (b) (Mil.) A day when troops are taken into the field for instruction in evolutions. Farrow. (c) A day of unusual exertion or display; a gala day.  -- Field driver, in New England, an officer charged with the driving of stray cattle to the pound.  -- Field duck (Zoöl.), the little bustard (Otis tetrax), found in Southern Europe.  -- Field glass. (Optics) (a) A binocular telescope of compact form; a lorgnette; a race glass. (b) A small achromatic telescope, from 20 to 24 inches long, and having 3 to 6 draws. (c) See Field lens.  -- Field lark. (Zoöl.) (a) The skylark. (b) The tree pipit.  -- Field lens (Optics), that one of the two lenses forming the eyepiece of an astronomical telescope or compound microscope which is nearer the object glass; -- called also field glass.  -- Field madder (Bot.), a plant (Sherardia arvensis) used in dyeing.  -- Field marshal (Mil.), the highest military rank conferred in the British and other European armies.  -- Field mouse (Zoöl.), a mouse inhabiting fields, as the campagnol and the deer mouse. See Campagnol, and Deer mouse.  -- Field officer (Mil.), an officer above the rank of captain and below that of general.  -- Field officer's court (U.S.Army), a court-martial consisting of one field officer empowered to try all cases, in time of war, subject to jurisdiction of garrison and regimental courts. Farrow.  -- Field plover (Zoöl.), the black-bellied plover (Charadrius squatarola); also sometimes applied to the Bartramian sandpiper (Bartramia longicauda).  -- Field spaniel (Zoöl.), a small spaniel used in hunting small game.  -- Field sparrow. (Zoöl.) (a) A small American sparrow (Spizella pusilla). (b) The hedge sparrow. [Eng.] -- Field staff (Mil.), a staff formerly used by gunners to hold a lighted match for discharging a gun.  -- Field vole (Zoöl.), the European meadow mouse.  -- Field of ice, a large body of floating ice; a pack.  -- Field, or Field of view, in a telescope or microscope, the entire space within which objects are seen.  -- Field magnet. see under Magnet.  -- Magnetic field. See Magnetic.  -- To back the field, or To bet on the field. See under Back, v. t.  -- To keep the field. (a) (Mil.) To continue a campaign. (b) To maintain one's ground against all comers.  -- To lay, or back, against the field, to bet on (a horse, etc.) against all comers.  -- To take the field (Mil.), to enter upon a campaign. 

FIELD:  To stand out in the field, ready to catch, stop, or throw the ball. 

FIELD:  To catch, stop, throw, etc. (the ball), as a fielder. 

FIELDED:  Engaged in the field; encamped. [Obs.] To help fielded friends. Shak. 

FIELDEN:  Consisting of fields. [Obs.] The fielden country also and plains. Holland. 

FIELDER:  A ball payer who stands out in the field to catch or stop balls. 

FIELDFARE:  a small thrush (Turdus pilaris) which breeds in northern Europe and winters in Great Britain. The head, nape, and lower part of the back are ash-colored; the upper part of the back and wing coverts, chestnut; -- called also fellfare. 

FIELDING:  The act of playing as a fielder. 

FIELDPIECE:  A cannon mounted on wheels, for the use of a marching army; a piece of field artillery; -- called also field gun. 

FIELDWORK:  Any temporary fortification thrown up by an army in the field; -- commonly in the plural. All works which do not come under the head of permanent fortification are called fieldworks. Wilhelm. 

FIELDY:  Open, like a field. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

FIEND:  An implacable or malicious foe; one who is diabolically wicked or cruel; an infernal being; -- applied specifically to the devil or a demon. Into this wild abyss the wary fiend Stood on the brink of Hell and looked a while. Milton. O woman! woman! when to ill thy mind Is bent, all hell contains no fouler fiend. Pope. 

FIENDFUL:  Full of fiendish spirit or arts. Marlowe.  -- Fiend"ful*ly, adv. 

FIENDISH:  Like a fiend; diabolically wicked or cruel; infernal; malignant; devilish; hellish.  -- Fiend"ish*ly, adv.  -- Fiend"ish*ness, n. 

FIENDLIKE:  Fiendish; diabolical. Longfellow. 

FIENDLY:  Fiendlike; monstrous; devilish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FIERASFER:  A genus of small, slender fishes, remarkable for their habit of living as commensals in other animals. One species inhabits the gill cavity of the pearl oyster near Panama; another lives within an East Indian holothurian. 

FIERCE:  A judicial writ that lies for one who has recovered in debt or damages, commanding the sheriff that he cause to be made of the goods, chattels, or real estate of the defendant, the sum claimed. Blackstone. Cowell. 

FIERINESS:  The quality of being fiery; heat; acrimony; irritability; as, a fieriness of temper. Addison. 

FIESTA:  Among Spanish, a religious festival; a saint's day or holiday; also, a holiday or festivity.  Even . . . a bullfight is a fiesta. Am. Dialect Notes.  Some fiesta, when all the surrounding population were expected to turn out in holiday dress for merriment. The Century. 

FIFE:  A small shrill pipe, resembling the piccolo flute, used chiefly to accompany the drum in military music. Fife major (Mil.), a noncommissioned officer who superintends the fifers of a regiment.  -- Fife rail. (Naut.) (a) A rail about the mast, at the deck, to hold belaying pins, etc. (b) A railing around the break of a poop deck. 

FIFE:  To play on a fife. 

FIFER:  One who plays on a fife. 

FIFTEEN:  Five and ten; one more than fourteen. 

FIFTH:  The interval of three tones and a semitone, embracing five diatonic degrees of the scale; the dominant of any key. 

FIFTHLY:  In the fifth place; as the fifth in order. 

FIFTIETH:  One of fifty equal parts; the quotient of a unit divided by fifty. 

FIFTY:  Five times ten; as, fifty men. 

FIG:  A small fruit tree (Ficus Carica) with large leaves, known from the remotest antiquity. It was probably native from Syria westward to the Canary Islands.  2. The fruit of a fig tree, which is of round or oblong shape, and of various colors.  Note: The fruit of a fig tree is really the hollow end of a stem, and bears numerous achenia inside the cavity. Many species have little, hard, inedible figs, and in only a few does the fruit become soft and pulpy. The fruit of the cultivated varieties is much prized in its fresh state, and also when dried or preserved. See Caprification.  3. A small piece of tobacco. [U.S.]  4. The value of a fig, practically nothing; a fico; -- used in scorn or contempt. "A fig for Peter." Shak. Cochineal fig. See Conchineal fig.  -- Fig dust, a preparation of fine oatmeal for feeding caged birds.  -- Fig faun, one of a class of rural deities or monsters supposed to live on figs. "Therefore shall dragons dwell there with the fig fauns." Jer. i. 39. (Douay version).  -- Fig gnat (Zoöl.), a small fly said to be injurious to figs.  -- Fig leaf, the leaf tree; hence, in allusion to the first clothing of Adam and Eve (Genesis iii.7), a covering for a thing that ought to be concealed; esp., an inadequate covering; a symbol for affected modesty.  -- Fig marigold (Bot.), the name of several plants of the genus Mesembryanthemum, some of which are prized for the brilliancy and beauty of their flowers.  -- Fig tree (Bot.), any tree of the genus Ficus, but especially F. Carica which produces the fig of commerce. 

FIG:  Figure; dress; array. [Colloq.] Were they all in full fig, the females with feathers on their heads, the males with chapeaux bras Prof. Wilson. 

FIGARO:  An adroi 

FIGARY:  A frolic; a vagary; a whim. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

FIGENT:  Fidgety; restless. [Obs.] Such a little figent thing. Beau. & Fl. 

FIGGUM:  A juggler's trick; conjuring. [Obs.] The devil is the author of wicked figgum. B. Jonson. 

FIGHTER:  One who fights; a combatant; a warrior. Shak. 

FIGHTINGLY:  Pugnaciously. 

FIGHTWITE:  A mulct or fine imposed on a person for making a fight or quarrel to the disturbance of the peace. 

FIGMENT:  An invention; a fiction; something feigned or imagined. Social figments, feints, and formalism. Mrs. Browning. It carried rather an appearance of figment and invention . . . than of truth and reality. Woodward. 

FIGPECKER:  The European garden warbler (Sylvia, or Currica, hortensis); -- called also beccafico and greater pettychaps.  FIG-SHELL Fig"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  A marine univalve shell of the genus Pyrula, or Ficula, resembling a fig in form.  FIGULATE; FIGULATED Fig"u*late, Fig"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. figulatus, p.p. of figulare to shape, fr. figulus potter, fr. fingere to shape.]  Made of potter's clay; molded; shaped. [R.] Johnson. 

FIGULINE:  A piece of pottery ornamented with representations of natural objects. Whose figulines and rustic wares Scarce find him bread from day to day. Longfellow. 

FIGURABILITY:  The quality of being figurable. Johnson. 

FIGURABLE:  Capable of being brought to a fixed form or shape. Lead is figurable, but water is not. Johnson. 

FIGURAL:  Figurate. See Figurate. Figural numbers. See Figurate numbers, under Figurate. 

FIGURANT:  One who dances at the opera, not singly, but in groups or figures; an accessory character on the stage, who figures in its scenes, but has nothing to say; hence, one who figures in any scene, without taking a prominent part. 

FIGURANTE:  A female figurant; esp., a ballet girl. 

FIGURATE:  Florid; figurative; involving passing discords by the freer melodic movement of one or more parts or voices in the harmony; as, figurate counterpoint or descant. Figurate counterpoint or descant (Mus.), that which is not simple, or in which the parts do not move together tone for tone, but in which freer movement of one or more parts mingles passing discords with the harmony; -- called also figural, figurative, and figured counterpoint or descant (although the term figured is more commonly applied to a bass with numerals written above or below to indicate the other notes of the harmony).  -- Figurate numbers (Math.), numbers, or series of numbers, formed from any arithmetical progression in which the first term is a unit, and the difference a whole number, by taking the first term, and the sums of the first two, first three, first four, etc., as the successive terms of a new series, from which another may be formed in the same manner, and so on, the numbers in the resulting series being such that points representing them are capable of symmetrical arrangement in different geometrical figures, as triangles, squares, pentagons, etc.  Note: In the following example, the two lower lines are composed of figurate numbers, those in the second line being triangular, and represented thus: --. 1, 2, 3, 4, etc. . . . 1, 3, 6, 10, etc. . . . . . . . etc. 1, 4, 10, 20, etc . . . . . . . . . . . . 

FIGURATED:  Having a determinate form. 

FIGURATELY:  In a figurate manner. 

FIGURATION:  Mixture of concords and discords. 

FIGURE:  A diagram or drawing; made to represent a magnitude or the relation of two or more magnitudes; a surface or space inclosed on all sides; -- called superficial when inclosed by lines, and solid when inclosed by surface; any arrangement made up of points, lines, angles, surfaces, etc.  5. The appearance or impression made by the conduct or carrer of a person; as, a sorry figure. I made some figure there. Dryden. Gentlemen of the best figure in the county. Blackstone.  6. Distinguished appearance; magnificence; conspicuous representation; splendor; show. That he may live in figure and indulgence. Law.  7. A character or symbol representing a number; a numeral; a digit; as, 1, 2,3, etc.  8. Value, as expressed in numbers; price; as, the goods are estimated or sold at a low figure. [Colloq.] With nineteen thousand a year at the very lowest figure. Thackeray.  9. A person, thing, or action, conceived of as analogous to another person, thing, or action, of which it thus becomes a type or representative. Who is the figure of Him that was to come. Rom. v. 14.  10. (Rhet.)  A mode of expressing abstract or immaterial ideas by words which suggest pictures or images from the physical world; pictorial language; a trope; hence, any deviation from the plainest form of statement. To represent the imagination under the figure of a wing. Macaulay.  11. (Logic)  The form of a syllogism with respect to the relative position of the middle term.  12. (Dancing)  Any one of the several regular steps or movements made by a dancer.  13. (Astrol.)  A horoscope; the diagram of the aspects of the astrological houses. Johnson.  14. (Music) (a) Any short succession of notes, either as melody or as a group of chords, which produce a single complete and distinct impression. Grove. (b) A form of melody or accompaniment kept up through a strain or passage; a musical or motive; a florid embellishment.  Note: Figures are often written upon the staff in music to denote the kind of measure. They are usually in the form of a fraction, the upper figure showing how many notes of the kind indicated by the lower are contained in one measure or bar. Thus, 2/4 signifies that the measure contains two quarter notes. The following are the principal figures used for this purpose: --2/22/42/8 4/22/44/8 3/23/43/8 6/46/46/8 Academy figure, Canceled figures, Lay figure, etc. See under Academy, Cancel, Lay, etc.  -- Figure caster, or Figure flinger, an astrologer. This figure caster." Milton.  -- Figure flinging, the practice of astrology.  -- Figure-of-eight knot, a knot shaped like the figure 8. See Illust. under Knot.  -- Figure painting, a picture of the human figure, or the act or art of depicting the human figure.  -- Figure stone (Min.), agalmatolite.  -- Figure weaving, the art or process of weaving figured fabrics.  -- To cut a figure, to make a display. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. 

FIGUREHEAD:  The figure, statue, or bust, on the prow of a ship.  2. A person who allows his name to be used to give standing to enterprises in which he has no responsible interest or duties; a nominal, but not real, head or chief. 

FIGURIAL:  Represented by figure or delineation. [R.] Craig. 

FIGURINE:  A very small figure, whether human or of an animal; especially, one in terra cotta or the like; -- distinguished from statuette, which is applied to small figures in bronze, marble, etc. 

FIGURIST:  One who uses or interprets figurative expressions. Waterland. 

FIGWORT:  A genus of herbaceous plants (Scrophularia), mostly found in the north temperate zones. See Brownwort. 

FIJIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants.  -- n.  A native of the Fiji islands. [Written also Feejeean, Feejee.] 

FIKE:  See Fyke. 

FIL:  imp. of Fall, v. i. Fell. Chaucer. 

FILACEOUS:  Composed of threads. Bacon. 

FILACER:  A former officer in the English Court of Common Pleas; -- so called because he filed the writs on which he made out process. [Obs.] Burrill. 

FILAMENT:  A thread or threadlike object or appendage; a fiber; esp. (Bot.), the threadlike part of the stamen supporting the anther. 

FILAMENTARY:  Having the character of, or formed by, a filament. 

FILAMENTOID:  Like a filament. 

FILAMENTOUS:  Like a thread; consisting of threads or filaments. Gray. 

FILANDER:  A species of kangaroo (Macropus Brunii), inhabiting New Guinea. 

FILANDERS:  A disease in hawks, characterized by the presence of small threadlike worms, also of filaments of coagulated blood, from the rupture of a vein; -- called also backworm. Sir T. Browne. 

FILAR:  Of or pertaining to a thread or line; characterized by threads stretched across the field of view; as, a filar microscope; a filar micrometer. 

FILARIA:  A genus of slender, nematode worms of many species, parasitic in various animals. See Guinea worm. 

FILARIAL:  Of, pertaining to, or caused by, filariæ and allied parasitic worms.  2.  Straight, as if in a line; as, the filarial flight of birds. 

FILARIASIS:  The presence of filariæ in the blood; infection with filariæ. 

FILASSE:  Vegetable fiber, as jute or ramie, prepared for manufacture. 

FILATORY:  A machine for forming threads. [Obs.] W. Tooke. 

FILBERT:  The fruit of the Corylus Avellana or hazel. It is an oval nut, containing a kernel that has a mild, farinaceous, oily taste, agreeable to the palate.  Note: In England filberts are usually large hazelnuts, especially the nuts from selected and cultivated trees. The American hazelnuts are of two other species. Filbert gall (Zoöl.), a gall resembling a filbert in form, growing in clusters on grapevines. It is produced by the larva of a gallfly (Cecidomyia). 

FILCH:  To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of little value); to pilfer. Fain would they filch that little food away. Dryden. But he that filches from me my good name, Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed. Shak. 

FILCHER:  One who filches; a thief. 

FILCHINGLY:  By pilfering or petty stealing. 

FILE:  To put upon the files or among the records of a court; to note on (a paper) the fact date of its reception in court. To file a paper, on the part of a party, is to place it in the official custody of the clerk. To file, on the part of the clerk, is to indorse upon the paper the date of its reception, and retain it in his office, subject to inspection by whomsoever it may concern. Burrill. 

FILE:  To march in a file or line, as soldiers, not abreast, but one after another; -- generally with off. To file with, to follow closely, as one soldier after another in file; to keep pace. My endeavors Have ever come too short of my desires, Yet filed with my abilities. Shak. 

FILE:  To make f [Obs.] All his hairy breast with blood was filed.Spenser. For Banquo's issue have I filed mind.Shak.  FILE CLOSER File" clos`er. (Mil.)  A commissioned or noncommissioned officer posted in the rear of a line, or on the flank of a column, of soldiers, to rectify mistakes and insure steadiness and promptness in the ranks. 

FILEFISH:  Any plectognath fish of the genera Monacanthus, Alutera, balistes, and allied genera; -- so called on account of the roughly granulated skin, which is sometimes used in place of sandpaper. 

FILEMOT:  See Feullemort. Swift. 

FILER:  One who works with a file. 

FILIALLY:  In a filial manner. 

FILIATE:  To adopt as son or daughter; to establish filiation between. [R.] Southey. 

FILIATION:  The assignment of a bastard child to some one as its ather; affiliation. Smart. 

FILIBEG:  Same as Kilt. [Written also philibeg.] 

FILIBUSTER:  A lawless military adventurer, especially one in quest of plunder; a freebooter; -- originally applied to buccaneers infesting the Spanish American coasts, but introduced into common English to designate the followers of Lopez in his expedition to Cuba in 1851, and those of Walker in his expedition to Nicaragua, in 1855. 

FILIBUSTERISM:  The characteristics or practices of a filibuster. Bartlett. 

FILICAL:  Belonging to the Filices, r ferns. 

FILICIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, ferns; as, filicic acid. 

FILICIDE:  The act of murdering a son or a daughter; also, parent who commits such a murder. 

FILICIFORM:  Shaped like a fern or like the parts of a fern leaf. Smart. 

FILICOID:  Fernlike, either in form or in the nature of the method of reproduction. 

FILICOID:  A fernlike plant. Lindley. 

FILIETY:  The relation of a son to a father; sonship; -- the correlative of paternity. J. S. Mill. 

FILIFEROUS:  Producing threads. Carpenter. 

FILIFORM:  Having the shape of a thread or filament; as, the filiform papillæ of the tongue; a filiform style or peduncle. See Illust. of AntennÆ.  FILIGRAIN; FILIGRANE Fil"i*grain, Fil"i*grane, n. Etym: [Sp. filigrana (cf. It. filigrana, E. filigrane), fr. L. filuma thread + granum grain. See File a row, and Grain, and cf. Filigree.]  Filigree. [Archaic] With her head . . . touches the crown of filigrane. Longfellow. 

FILIGRANED:  See Filigreed. [Archaic] 

FILIGREE:  Ornamental work, formerly with grains or breads, but now composed of fine wire and used chiefly in decorating gold and silver to which the wire is soldered, being arranged in designs frequently of a delicate and intricate arabesque pattern. 

FILIGREE:  Relating to, composed of, or resembling, work in filigree; as, a filigree basket. Hence: Fanciful; unsubstantial; merely decorative. You ask for reality, not fiction and filigree work. J. C. Shairp. 

FILIGREED:  Adorned with filigree. Tatler. 

FILING:  A fragment or particle rubbed off by the act of filing; as, iron filings. 

FILIOQUE:  The Latin for, "and from the Son," equivalent to et filio, inserted by the third council of Toledo (a. d. 589) in the clause qui ex Patre procedit (who proceedeth from the Father) of the Niceno- Constantinopolitan Creed (a. d. 381), which makes a creed state that the Holy Ghost proceeds from the Son as well as from the Father. Hence, the doctrine itself (not admitted by the Eastern Church). 

FILIPENDULOUS:  Suspended by, or strung upon, a thread; -- said of tuberous swellings in the middle or at the extremities of slender, threadlike rootlets. 

FILIPINO:  A native of the Philippine Islands, specif. one of Spanish descent or of mixed blood.  Then there are Filipinos, -- "children of the country," they are called, -- who are supposed to be pure-blooded descendants of Spanish settlers. But there are few of them without some touch of Chinese or native blood. The Century. 

FILL:  One of the thills or shafts of a carriage. Mortimer. Fill horse, a thill horse. Shak. 

FILL:  To make an embankment in, or raise the level of (a low place), with earth or gravel. To fill in, to insert; as, he filled in the figures.  -- To fill out, to extend or enlarge to the desired limit; to make complete; as, to fill out a bill.  -- To fill up, to make quite full; to fill to the brim or entirely; to occupy completely; to complete. "The bliss that fills up all the mind." Pope. "And fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ." Col. i. 24. 

FILL:  A full supply, as much as supplies want; as much as gives complete satisfaction. "Ye shall eat your fill." Lev. xxv. 19. I'll bear thee hence, where I may weep my fill. Shak.  FILLED CHEESE Filled cheese.  An inferior kind of cheese made from skim milk with a fatty "filling," such as oleomargarine or lard, to replace the fat removed in the cream. 

FILLER:  One who, or that which, fills; something used for filling. 'T is mere filer, to stop a vacancy in the hexameter. Dryden. They have six diggers to four fillers, so as to keep the fillers always at work. Mortimer. 

FILLER:  A thill horse. [Prov. Eng.] 

FILLET:  A piece of lean meat without bone; sometimes, a long strip rolled together and tied.  Note: A fillet of beef is the under side of the sirlom; also called tenderloin. A fillet of veal or mutton is the fleshy part of the thigh. A fillet of fish is a slice of flat fish without bone. "Fillet of a fenny snake." Shak.  3. A thin strip or ribbon; esp.: (a) A strip of metal from which coins are punched. (b) A strip of card clothing. (c) A thin projecting band or strip.  4. (Mach.)  A concave filling in of a reëntrant angle where two surfaces meet, forming a rounded corner.  5. (Arch.)  A narrow flat member; especially, a flat molding separating other moldings; a reglet; also, the space between two flutings in a shaft. See Illust. of Base, and Column.  6. (Her.)  An ordinary equaling in breadth one fourth of the chief, to the lowest portion of which it corresponds in position.  7. (Mech.)  The thread of a screw.  8. A border of broad or narrow lines of color or gilt.  9. The raised molding about the muzzle of a gun.  10. Any scantling smaller than a batten.  11. (Anat.)  A fascia; a band of fibers; applied esp. to certain bands of white matter in the brain.  12. (Man.)  The loins of a horse, beginning at the place where the hinder part of the saddle rests. Arris fillet. See under Arris. 

FILLET:  To bind, furnish, or adorn with a fillet. 

FILLETING:  The protecting of a joint, as between roof and parapet wall, with mortar, or cement, where flashing is employed in better work.  2. The material of which fillets are made; also, fillets, collectively. 

FILLIBEG:  A kilt. See Filibeg. 

FILLIBUSTER:  See Filibuster. 

FILLING:  Prepared wort added to ale to cleanse it. Back filling. (Arch.) See under Back, a. 

FILLIPEEN:  See Philopena. 

FILLY:  A female foal or colt; a young mare. Cf. Colt, Foal. Neighing in likeness of a filly foal. Shak.  2. A lively, spirited young girl. [Colloq.] Addison. 

FILM:  To cover with a thin skin or pellicle. It will but skin and film the ulcerous place. Shak. 

FILMINESS:  State of being filmy. 

FILMY:  Composed of film or films. Whose filmy cord should bind the struggling fly. Dryden. 

FILOPLUMACEOUS:  Having the structure of a filoplume. 

FILOPLUME:  A hairlike feather; a father with a slender scape and without a web in most or all of its length. 

FILOSE:  Terminating in a threadlike process. 

FILOSELLE:  A kind of silk thread less glossy than floss, and spun from coarser material. It is much used in embroidery instead of floss. 

FILS:  Son; -- sometimes used after a French proper name to distinguish a son from his father, as, Alexandre Dumas, fils. 

FILTER:  Any porous substance, as cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal, through which water or other liquid may passed to cleanse it from the solid or impure matter held in suspension; a chamber or device containing such substance; a strainer; also, a similar device for purifying air. Filter bed, a pond, the bottom of which is a filter composed of sand gravel.  -- Filter gallery, an underground gallery or tunnel, alongside of a stream, to collect the water that filters through the intervening sand and gravel; -- called also infiltration gallery. 

FILTER:  To purify or defecate, as water or other liquid, by causing it to pass through a filter. Filtering paper, or Filter paper, a porous unsized paper, for filtering. 

FILTER:  To pass through a filter; to percolate. 

FILTER:  Same as Philter. 

FILTHILY:  In a filthy manner; foully. 

FILTHY:  Defiled with filth, whether material or moral; nasty; dirty; polluted; foul; impure; obscene. "In the filthy-mantled pool." Shak. He which is filthy let him be filthy still. Rev. xxii. 11.  Syn.  -- Nasty; foul; dirty; squalid; unclean; sluttish; gross; vulgar; licentious. See Nasty. 

FILTRATE:  To filter; to defecate; as liquid, by straining or percolation. Arbuthnot. 

FILTRATE:  That which has been filtered; the liquid which has passed through the filter in the process of filtration. 

FILTRATION:  The act or process of filtering; the mechanical separation of a liquid from the undissolved particles floating in it.  FIMBLE; FIMBLE HEMP Fim"ble, n., or Fim"ble hemp`.Etym: [Corrupted from female hemp.]  Light summer hemp, that bears no seed. 

FIMBRIA:  A fringe, or fringed border. (b) A band of white matter bordering the hippocampus in the brain.  -- Fim"bri*al, a. 

FIMBRIATE:  Having the edge or extremity bordered by filiform processes thicker than hairs; fringed; as, the fimbriate petals of the pink; the fimbriate end of the Fallopian tube. 

FIMBRIATE:  To hem; to fringe. Fuller. 

FIMBRIATED:  Having a very narrow border of another tincture; -- said esp. of an ordinary or subordinary. 

FIMBRICATE:  fringed, on one side only, by long, straight hairs, as the antennæ of certain insects. 

FIN:  To carve or cut up, as a chub. 

FIN:  End; conclusion; object. [Obs.] "She knew eke the fin of his intent." Chaucer. 

FIN:  An organ of a fish, consisting of a membrane supported by rays, or little bony or cartilaginous ossicles, and serving to balance and propel it in the water.  Note: Fishes move through the water chiefly by means of the caudal fin or tail, the principal office of the other fins being to balance or direct the body, though they are also, to a certain extent, employed in producing motion.  2. (Zoöl.)  A membranous, finlike, swimming organ, as in pteropod and heteropod mollusks.  3. A finlike organ or attachment; a part of an object or product which protrudes like a fin, as: (a) The hand. [Slang] (b) (Com.) A blade of whalebone. [Eng.] McElrath. (c) (Mech.) A mark or ridge left on a casting at the junction of the parts of a mold. (d) (Mech.) The thin sheet of metal squeezed out between the collars of the rolls in the process of rolling. Raymond. (e) (Mech.) A feather; a spline.  4. A finlike appendage, as to submarine boats. Apidose fin. (Zoöl.) See under Adipose, a.  -- Fin ray (Anat.), one of the hornlike, cartilaginous, or bony, dermal rods which form the skeleton of the fins of fishes.  -- Fin whale (Zoöl.), a finback.  -- Paired fins (Zoöl.), the pectoral and ventral fins, corresponding to the fore and hind legs of the higher animals.  -- Unpaired, or Median, fins (Zoöl.), the dorsal, caudal, and anal fins. 

FINABLE:  Liable or subject to a fine; as, a finable person or offense. Bacon. 

FINALE:  Close; termination; as: (a) (Mus.) The last movement of a symphony, sonata, concerto, or any instrumental composition. (b) The last composition performed in any act of an opera. (c) The closing part, piece, or scene in any public performance or exhibition. 

FINALIST:  Any of the players who meet in the final round of a tournament in which the losers in any round do not play again. 

FINANCIAL:  Pertaining to finance. "Our financial and commercial system." Macaulay. 

FINANCIALIST:  A financier. 

FINANCIALLY:  In a dfinancial manner. Burke. 

FINANCIER:  To conduct financial operations. 

FINARY:  See Finery. 

FINATIVE:  Conclusive; decisive; definitive; final. [Obs.] Greene (1593). 

FINBACK:  Any whale of the genera Sibbaldius, Balænoptera, and allied genera, of the family Balænopteridæ, characterized by a prominent fin on the back. The common finbacks of the New England coast are Sibbaldius tectirostris and S. tuberosus.  FINBAT KITE Fin"bat kite.  = Eddy kite. [Eng.] 

FINCH:  A small singing bird of many genera and species, belonging to the family Fringillidæ.  Note: The word is often used in composition, as in chaffinch, goldfinch, grassfinch, pinefinch, etc. Bramble finch. See Brambling.  -- Canary finch, the canary bird.  -- Copper finch. See Chaffinch.  -- Diamond finch. See under Diamond.  -- Finch falcon (Zoöl.), one of several very small East Indian falcons of the genus Hierax.  -- To pull a finch, to swindle an ignorant or unsuspecting person. [Obs.] "Privily a finch eke could he pull." Chaucer. 

FINCHBACKED:  Streaked or spotted on the back; -- said of cattle. 

FINCHED:  Same as Finchbacked. 

FIND:  To determine an issue of fact, and to declare such a determination to a court; as, the jury find for the plaintiff. Burrill. 

FIND:  Anything found; a discovery of anything valuable; especially, a deposit, discovered by archæologists, of objects of prehistoric or unknown origin. 

FINDABLE:  Capable of being found; discoverable. Fuller. 

FINDER:  One who, or that which, finds; specifically (Astron.), a small telescope of low power and large field of view, attached to a larger telescope, for the purpose of finding an object more readily.  FIN DE SIECLE Fin` de siè"cle. [F.]  Lit., end of the century; -- mostly used adjectively in English to signify: belonging to, or characteristic of, the close of the 19th century; modern; "up-to-date;" as, fin-de-siècle ideas. 

FINDFAULT:  A censurer or caviler. [Obs.] 

FINDFAULTING:  Apt to censure or cavil; faultfinding; captious. [Obs.] Whitlock. 

FINDING:  The result of a judicial examination or inquiry, especially into some matter of fact; a verdict; as, the finding of a jury. Burrill. After his friends finding and his rent. Chaucer. 

FINDY:  Full; heavy; firm; solid; substemtial. [Obs.] A cold May and a windy Makes the barn fat amd findy. Old Prover 

FINE:  To impose a pecuniary penalty upon for an offense or breach of law; to set a fine on by judgment of a court; to punish by fine; to mulct; as, the trespassers were fined ten dollars. 

FINE:  To pay a fine. See Fine, n., 3 (b). [R.] Men fined for the king's good will; or that he would remit his anger; women fined for leave to marry. Hallam. 

FINE:  To finish; to cease; or to cause to cease. [Obs.] 

FINEDRAW:  To sew up, so nicely that the seam is not perceived; to renter. Marryat. 

FINEDRAWER:  One who finedraws. 

FINEDRAWN:  Drawn out with too much subtilty; overnice; as, finedrawn speculations. 

FINEER:  To run in dept by getting goods made up in a way unsuitable for the use of others, and then threatening not to take them except on credit. [R.] Goldsmith. 

FINEER:  To veneer. 

FINELESS:  Endless; boundless. [Obs.] Shak. 

FINELY:  In a fine or finished manner. 

FINER:  One who fines or purifies. 

FINERY:  A charcoal hearth or furnace for the conversion of cast iron into wrought iron, or into iron suitable for puddling. 

FINESPUN:  Spun so as to be fine; drawn to a fine thread; attenuated; hence, unsubstantial; visionary; as, finespun theories. 

FINESSE:  The act of finessing. See Finesse, v. i., 2. 

FINESSE:  To attempt, when second or third player, to make a lower card answer the purpose of a higher, when an intermediate card is out, risking the chance of its being held by the opponent yet to play. 

FINESTILL:  To distill, as spirit from molasses or some saccharine preparation. 

FINESTILLER:  One who finestills. 

FINEW:  Moldiness. [R.] 

FINFOOT:  A South American bird (heliornis fulica) allied to the grebes. The name is also applied to several related species of the genus Podica.  FIN-FOOTED Fin"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.) (a) Having palmate feet. (b) Having lobate toes, as the coot and grebe. 

FINGER:  To use the fingers in playing on an instrument. Busby. 

FINGERED:  Having leaflets like fingers; digitate.  3. (Mus.)  Marked with figures designating which finger should be used for each note. 

FINGERER:  One who fingers; a pilferer. 

FINGERLING:  A young salmon. See Parr.  FINGLE-FANGLE Fin"gle-fan`gle, n. Etym: [From fangle.]  A trifle. [Low] Hudibras. 

FINGRIGO:  A prickly, climbing shrub of the genus Pisonia. The fruit is a kind of berry. 

FINIAL:  The knot or bunch of foliage, or foliated ornament, that forms the upper extremity of a pinnacle in Gothic architecture; sometimes, the pinnacle itself. 

FINICAL:  Affectedly fine; overnice; unduly particular; fastidious. "Finical taste." Wordsworth. The gross style consists in giving no detail, the finical in giving nothing else. Hazlitt.  Syn.  -- Finical, Spruce, Foppish. These words are applied to persons who are studiously desirous to cultivate finery of appearance. One who is spruce is elaborately nice in dress; one who is finical shows his affectation in language and manner as well as in dress; one who is foppish distinguishes himself by going to the extreme of the fashion in the cut of his clothes, by the tawdriness of his ornaments, and by the ostentation of his manner. "A finical gentleman clips his words and screws his body into as small a compass as possible, to give himself the air of a delicate person; a spruce gentleman strives not to have a fold wrong in his frill or cravat, nor a hair of his head to lie amiss; a foppish gentleman seeks . . . to render himself distinguished for finery." Crabb.  -- Fin"i*cal*ly, adv.  -- Fin"i*cal*ness, n. 

FINICALITY:  The quality of being finical; finicalness.  FINICKING; FINICKY Fin"ick*ing, Fin"ick*y, a.  Finical; unduly particular. [Colloq.] 

FINIFIC:  A limiting element or quality. [R.] The essential finific in the form of the finite. Coleridge. 

FINIFY:  To make fine; to dress finically. [Obs.] Hath so pared and finified them [his feet.] B. Jonson. 

FINIKIN:  Precise in trifles; idly busy. [Colloq.] Smart. 

FINIS:  An end; conclusion. It is often placed at the end of a book. 

FINISH:  The joiner work and other finer work required for the completion of a building, especially of the interior. See Inside finish, and Outside finish.  3. (Fine Arts) (a) The labor required to give final completion to any work; hence, minute detail, careful elaboration, or the like. (b) See Finishing coat, under Finishing.  4. The result of completed labor, as on the surface of an object; manner or style of finishing; as, a rough, dead, or glossy finish given to cloth, stone, metal, etc.  5. Completion; -- opposed to Ant: start, or Ant: beginning. 

FINISHED:  Polished to the highest degree of excellence; complete; perfect; as, a finished poem; a finished education. Finished work (Mach.), work that is made smooth or polished, though not necessarily completed. 

FINISHING:  The act or process of completing or perfecting; the final work upon or ornamentation of a thing. 

FINISHING:  Tending to complete or to render fit for the market or for use. Finishing coat. (a) (Plastering) the final coat of plastering applied to walls and ceilings, usually white and rubbed smooth. (b) (Painting) The final coat of paint, usually differently mixed applied from the others.  -- Finishing press, a machine for pressing fabrics.  -- Finishing rolls (Iron Working), the rolls of a train which receive the bar from roughing rolls, and reduce it to its finished shape. Raymond. 

FINITE:  Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity; bounded; -- opposed to infinite; as, finite number; finite existence; a finite being; a finite mind; finite duration. 

FINITELESS:  Infinite. [Obs.] Sir T. browne. 

FINITELY:  In a finite manner or degree. 

FINITENESS:  The state of being finite. 

FINITUDE:  Limitation. Cheyne. 

FINJAN:  In the Levant, a small coffee cup without a handle, such as is held in a cup or stand called a zarf.  FIN KEEL Fin keel. (Naut.)  A projection downward from the keel of a yacht, resembling in shape the fin of a fish, though often with a cigar-shaped bulb of lead at the bottom, and generally made of metal. Its use is to ballast the boat and also to enable her to sail close to the wind and to make the least possible leeway by offering great resistance to lateral motion through the water. 

FINLANDER:  A native or inhabitant of Finland. 

FINLESS:  destitute of fins. 

FINLET:  A little fin; one of the parts of a divided fin. 

FINLIKE:  Resembling a fin. 

FINN:  A native of Finland; one of the FinnFinns.  FINNAN HADDIE Fin"nan had"die. Etym: [See Haddock.]  Haddock cured in peat smoke, originally at Findon (pron. fìn"an), Scotland. the name is also applied to other kinds of smoked haddock. [Written also finnan haddock.] 

FINNED:  Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin. Mortimer. 

FINNER:  A finback whale. 

FINNIC:  Of or pertaining to the Finns. 

FINNIKIN:  A variety of pigeon, with a crest somewhat resembling the mane of a horse. [Written also finikin.] 

FINNISH:  Of or pertaining to Finland, to the Finns, or to their language.  -- n.  A Northern Turanian group of languages; the language of the Finns. 

FINNY:  Having, or abounding in, fins, as fishes; pertaining to fishes.  2. Abounding in fishes. With patient angle trolls the finny deep. Goldsmoth. 

FINOCHIO:  An umbelliferous plant (Foeniculum dulce) having a somewhat tuberous stem; sweet fennel. The blanched stems are used in France and Italy as a culinary vegetable. 

FINOS:  Second best wool from Merino sheep. Gardner. 

FINPIKE:  The bichir. See Crossopterygii.  FINSEN LIGHT Fin"sen light. [After Prof. Niels R. Finsen (b. 1860), Danish physician.] (Med.)  Highly actinic light, derived from sunlight or from some form of electric lamp, used in the treatment of lupus and other cutaneous affections. 

FINT:  3d pers. sing. pr. of Find, for findeth. [Obs.] Chaucer.  FIN-TOED Fin"-toed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having toes connected by a membrane; palmiped; palmated; also, lobate. 

FIORD:  A narrow inlet of the sea, penetrating between high banks or rocks, as on the coasts of Norway and Alaska. [Written also fjord.] 

FIORIN:  A species of creeping bent grass (Agrostis alba); -- called also fiorin grass. 

FIORITE:  A variety of opal occuring in the cavities of volcanic tufa, in smooth and shining globular and botryoidal masses, having a pearly luster; -- so called from Fiora, in Ischia. 

FIORITURE:  Little flowers of ornament introduced into a melody by a singer or player.  FIPPENNY BIT Fip"pen*ny bit` ( or ). Etym: [Corruption of five penny bit.]  The Spanish half real, or one sixteenth of a dollar, -- so called in Pennsylvania and the adjacent States. [Obs.]  Note: Before the act of Congress, Feb. 21, 1857, caused the adoption of decimal coins and the withdrawal of foreign coinage from circulation, this coin passed currently for 6fourpence ha'penny or fourpence; in New York a sixpence; in Pennsylvania, Virginia, etc., a fip; and in Louisiana, a picayune. 

FIPPLE:  A stopper, as in a wind instrument of music. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FIR:  A genus (Abies) of coniferous trees, often of large size and elegant shape, some of them valued for their timber and others for their resin. The species are distinguished as the balsam fir, the silver fir, the red fir, etc. The Scoth fir is a Pinus.  Note: Fir in the Bible means any one of several coniferous trees, including, cedar, cypress, and probably three species of pine. J. D. Hooker. 

FIRE:  To cauterize. To fire up, to light up the fires of, as of an engine. 

FIREARM:  A gun, pistol, or any weapon from a shot is discharged by the force of an explosive substance, as gunpowder. 

FIREBACK:  One of several species of pheasants of the genus Euplocamus, having the lower back a bright, fiery red. They inhabit Southern Asia and the East Indies. 

FIREBARE:  A beacon. [Obs.] Burrill.  FIRE BEETLE Fire" bee`tle. (Zoöl.)  A very brilliantly luminous beetle (Pyrophorus noctilucus), one of the elaters, found in Central and South America; -- called also cucujo. The name is also applied to other species. See Firefly. 

FIREBIRD:  The Baltimore oriole. 

FIREBOARD:  A chimney board or screen to close a fireplace when not in use. 

FIREBOTE:  An allowance of fuel. See Bote. 

FIRECRACKER:  See Cracker., n., 3. 

FIRECREST:  A small European kinglet (Regulus ignicapillus), having a bright red crest; -- called also fire-crested wren. 

FIREDOG:  A support for wood in a fireplace; an andiron. 

FIREDRAKE:  Injured as by fire; burned; -- said of manure which has lost its goodness and acquired an ashy hue in consequence of heat generated by decomposition. 

FIREFISH:  A singular marine fish of the genus Pterois, family Scorpænidæ, of several species, inhabiting the Indo-Pacific region. They are usually red, and have very large spinose pectoral and dorsal fins. 

FIREFLAIRE:  A European sting ray of the genus Trygon (T. pastinaca); -- called also fireflare and fiery flaw. 

FIREFLAME:  The European band fish (Cepola rubescens). 

FIREFLY:  Any luminous winged insect, esp. luminous beetles of the family Lampyridæ.  Note: The common American species belong to the genera Photinus and Photuris, in which both sexes are winged. The name is also applied to luminous species of Elateridæ. See Fire beetle. 

FIRELESS:  Destitute of fire. 

FIRELOCK:  An old form of gunlock, as the flintlock, which ignites the priming by a spark; perhaps originally, a matchlock. Hence, a gun having such a lock. 

FIREMAN:  Fresh from the forge; bright; quite new; brand-new. Charles reade. Your fire-new stamp of honor is scarce current. Shak. 

FIREPLACE:  The part a chimney appropriated to the fire; a hearth; -- usually an open recess in a wall, in which a fire may be built. 

FIREPROOF:  Proof against fire; incombustible. 

FIREPROOFING:  The act or process of rendering anything incombustible; also, the materials used in the process. 

FIRER:  One who fires or sets fire to anything; an incendiary. [R.] R. Carew. 

FIREROOM:  Same as Stokehold, below.  FIRE-SET Fire"-set`, n.  A set of fire irons, including, commonly, tongs, shovel, and poker. 

FIRESIDE:  A place near the fire or hearth; home; domestic life or retirement. 

FIRETAIL:  The European redstart; -- called also fireflirt. [prov. Eng.] 

FIREWARDEN:  An officer who has authority to direct in the extinguishing of fires, or to order what precautions shall be taken against fires; -- called also fireward. 

FIREWOOD:  Wood for fuel. 

FIREWORK:  A pyrotechnic exhibition. [Obs. in the sing.] Night before last, the Duke of Richmond gave a firework. Walpole. 

FIREWORM:  The larva of a small tortricid moth which eats the leaves of the cranberry, so that the vines look as if burned; -- called also cranberry worm. 

FIRING:  In the breech mechanism of a firearm, the pin which strikes the head of the cartridge and explodes it. 

FIRK:  To beat; to strike; to chastise. [Obs.] I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret him. Shak. 

FIRK:  To fly out; to turn out; to go off. [Obs.] A wench is a rare bait, with which a man No sooner's taken but he straight firks mad.B.Jonson. 

FIRK:  A freak; trick; quirk. [Obs.] Ford. 

FIRLOT:  A dry measure formerly used in Scotland; the fourth part of a boll of grain or meal. The Linlithgow wheat firlot was to the imperial bushel as 998 to 1000; the barley firlot as 1456 to 1000. Brande & C. 

FIRM:  The name, title, or style, under which a company transacts business; a partnership of two or more persons; a commercial house; as, the firm of Hope & Co. 

FIRMAMENT:  The orb of the fixed stars; the most rmote of the celestial spheres. 

FIRMAMENTAL:  Pertaining to the firmament; celestial; being of the upper regions. Dryden. 

FIRMAN:  In Turkey and some other Oriental countries, a decree or mandate issued by the sovereign; a royal order or grant; -- generally given for special objects, as to a traveler to insure him protection and assistance. [Written also firmaun.]  FIRMER-CHISEL Firm"er-chis"el, n.  A chisel, thin in proportion to its width. It has a tang to enter the handle instead of a socket for receiving it. Knight. 

FIRMITUDE:  Strength; stability. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

FIRMITY:  Strength; firmness; stability. [Obs.] Chillingworth. 

FIRMLY:  In a firm manner. 

FIRMNESS:  The state or quality of being firm.  Syn.  -- Firmness, Constancy. Firmness belongs to the will, and constancy to the affections and principles; the former prevents us from yielding, and the latter from fluctuating. Without firmness a man has no character; "without constancy," says Addison, "there is neither love, friendship, nor virtue in the world." 

FIRMS:  The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafters taken together. [Obs.] 

FIRRING:  See Furring. 

FIRRY:  Made of fir; abounding in firs. In firry woodlands making moan. Tennyson. 

FIRST:  Before any other person or thing in time, space, rank, etc.; -- much used in composition with adjectives and participles. Adam was first formed, then Eve. 1 Tim. ii. 13. At first, At the first, at the beginning or origin.  -- First or last, at one time or another; at the beginning or end. And all are fools and lovers first or last. Dryden. 

FIRST:  The upper part of a duet, trio, etc., either vocal or instrumental; -- so called because it generally expresses the air, and has a preëminence in the combined effect. 

FIRSTBORN:  First brought forth; first in the order of nativity; eldest; hence, most excellent; most distinguished or exalted.  FIRST-CLASS First"-class`, a.  Of the best class; of the highest rank; in the first division; of the best quality; first-rate; as, a first-class telescope. First- class car or First-class railway carriage, any passenger car of the highest regular class, and intended for passengers who pay the highest regular rate; -- distinguished from a second-class car.  FIRST-HAND First"-hand`, a.  Obtained directly from the first or original source; hence, without the intervention of an agent. One sphere there is . . . where the apprehension of him is first-hand and direct; and that is the sphere of our own mind. J. Martineau. 

FIRSTLING:  Firstborn. All the firstling males. Deut. xv. 19. 

FIRSTLY:  In the first place; before anything else; -- sometimes improperly used for first.  FIRST-RATE First"-rate`, a.  Of the highest excellence; preëminent in quality, size, or estimation. Our only first-rate body of contemporary poetry is the German. M. Arnold. Hermocrates . . . a man of first-rate ability. Jowett (Thucyd).  FIRST-RATE First"-rate`, n. (Naut.)  A war vessel of the highest grade or the most powerful class. 

FIRTH:  An arm of the sea; a frith.  FIR TREE Fir" tree`  . See Fir. 

FISC:  A public or state treasury. Burke. 

FISCAL:  Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue. The fiscal arreangements of government. A. Hamilton. 

FISETIC:  Pertaining to fustet or fisetin. 

FISETIN:  A yellow crystalline substance extracted from fustet, and regarded as its essential coloring principle; -- called also fisetic acid. 

FISH:  A counter, used in various games. 

FISH:  An oviparous, vertebrate animal usually having fins and a covering scales or plates. It breathes by means of gills, and lives almost entirely in the water. See Pisces.  Note: The true fishes include the Teleostei (bony fishes), Ganoidei, Dipnoi, and Elasmobranchii or Selachians (sharks and skates). Formerly the leptocardia and Marsipobranciata were also included, but these are now generally regarded as two distinct classes, below the fishes.  3. pl.  The twelfth sign of the zodiac; Pisces.  4. The flesh of fish, used as food.  5. (Naut.) (a) A purchase used to fish the anchor. (b) A piece of timber, somewhat in the form of a fish, used to strengthen a mast or yard.  Note: Fish is used adjectively or as part of a compound word; as, fish line, fish pole, fish spear, fish-bellied. Age of Fishes. See under Age, n., 8.  -- Fish ball, fish (usually salted codfish) shared fine, mixed with mashed potato, and made into the form of a small, round cake. [U.S.] -- Fish bar. Same as Fish plate (below).  -- Fish beam (Mech.), a beam one of whose sides (commonly the under one) swells out like the belly of a fish. Francis.  -- Fish crow (Zoöl.), a species of crow (Corvus ossifragus), found on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It feeds largely on fish.  -- Fish culture, the artifical breeding and rearing of fish; pisciculture.  -- Fish davit. See Davit.  -- Fish day, a day on which fish is eaten; a fast day.  -- Fish duck (Zoöl.), any species of merganser.  -- Fish fall, the tackle depending from the fish davit, used in hauling up the anchor to the gunwale of a ship.  -- Fish garth, a dam or weir in a river for keeping fish or taking them easily.  -- Fish glue. See Isinglass.  -- Fish joint, a joint formed by a plate or pair of plates fastened upon two meeting beams, plates, etc., at their junction; -- used largely in connecting the rails of railroads.  -- Fish kettle, a long kettle for boiling fish whole.  -- Fish ladder, a dam with a series of steps which fish can leap in order to ascend falls in a river.  -- Fish line, or Fishing line, a line made of twisted hair, silk, etc., used in angling.  -- Fish louse (Zoöl.), any crustacean parasitic on fishes, esp. the parasitic Copepoda, belonging to Caligus, Argulus, and other related genera. See Branchiura.  -- Fish maw (Zoöl.), the stomach of a fish; also, the air bladder, or sound.  -- Fish meal, fish desiccated and ground fine, for use in soups, etc.  -- Fish oil, oil obtained from the bodies of fish and marine animals, as whales, seals, sharks, from cods' livers, etc.  -- Fish owl (Zoöl.), a fish-eating owl of the Old World genera Scotopelia and Ketupa, esp. a large East Indian species (K. Ceylonensis).  -- Fish plate, one of the plates of a fish joint.  -- Fish pot, a wicker basket, sunk, with a float attached, for catching crabs, lobsters, etc.  -- Fish pound, a net attached to stakes, for entrapping and catching fish; a weir. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett.  -- Fish slice, a broad knife for dividing fish at table; a fish trowel.  -- Fish slide, an inclined box set in a stream at a small fall, or ripple, to catch fish descending the current. Knight.  -- Fish sound, the air bladder of certain fishes, esp. those that are dried and used as food, or in the arts, as for the preparation of isinglass.  -- Fish story, a story which taxes credulity; an extravagant or incredible narration. [Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett.  -- Fish strainer. (a) A metal colander, with handles, for taking fish from a boiler. (b) A perforated earthenware slab at the bottom of a dish, to drain the water from a boiled fish.  -- Fish trowel, a fish slice.  -- Fish weir or wear, a weir set in a stream, for catching fish.  -- Neither fish nor flesh (Fig.), neither one thing nor the other. 

FISH:  Bellying or swelling out on the under side; as, a fish-bellied rail. Knight.  FISH-BLOCK Fish"-block`, n.  See Fish-tackle. 

FISHER:  A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela Canadensis); the pekan; the "black cat." 

FISHERMAN:  A ship or vessel employed in the business of taking fish, as in the cod fishery. 

FISHERY:  The right to take fish at a certain place, or in particular waters. Abbott. 

FISHFUL:  Abounding with fish. [R.] "My fishful pond." R. Carew. 

FISHGIG:  A spear with barbed prongs used for harpooning fish. Knight. 

FISHHAWK:  The osprey (Pandion haliaëtus), found both in Europe and America; -- so called because it plunges into the water and seizes fishes in its talons. Called also fishing eagle, and bald buzzard. 

FISHHOOK:  A hook with a pendant, to the end of which the fish-tackle is hooked. Dana. 

FISHIFY:  To change to fish. [R.] Shak. 

FISHINESS:  The state or quality of being fishy or fishlike. Pennant. 

FISHING:  Pertaining to fishing; used in fishery; engaged in fishing; as, fishing boat; fishing tackle; fishing village. Fishing fly, an artificial fly for fishing.  -- Fishing line, a line used in catching fish.  -- Fishing net, a net of various kinds for catching fish; including the bag net, casting net, drag net, landing net, seine, shrimping net, trawl, etc.  -- Fishing rod, a long slender rod, to which is attached the line for angling.  -- Fishing smack, a sloop or other small vessel used in sea fishing.  -- Fishing tackle, apparatus used in fishing, as hook, line, rod, etc.  -- Fishing tube (Micros.), a glass tube for selecting a microscopic object in a fluid. 

FISHLIKE:  Like fish; suggestive of fish; having some of the qualities of fish. A very ancient and fishlike smell. Shak. 

FISHMONGER:  A dealer in fish. 

FISHSKIN:  See Ichthyosis.  FISH-TACKLE Fish"-tac`kle, n.  A tackle or purchase used to raise the flukes of the anchor up to the gunwale. The block used is called the fish-block.  FISH-TAIL Fish"-tail`, a.  Like the of a fish; acting, or producing something, like the tail of a fish. Fish-tail burner, a gas burner that gives a spreading flame shaped somewhat like the tail of a fish.  -- Fish-tail propeller (Steamship), a propeller with a single blade that oscillates like the tail of a fish when swimming. 

FISHWIFE:  A fishwoman. 

FISHWOMAN:  A woman who retails fish. 

FISK:  To run about; to frisk; to whisk. [Obs.] He fisks abroad, and stirreth up erroneous opinions. Latimer. 

FISSIGEMMATION:  A process of reproduction intermediate between fission and gemmation. 

FISSILE:  Capable of being split, cleft, or divided in the direction of the grain, like wood, or along natural planes of cleavage, like crystals. This crystal is a pellucid, fissile stone. Sir I. Newton. 

FISSILINGUAL:  Having the tongue forked. 

FISSILINGUIA:  A group of Lacertilia having the tongue forked, including the common lizards. [Written also Fissilingues.] 

FISSILITY:  Quality of being fissile. 

FISSION:  A method of asexual reproduction among the lowest (unicellular) organisms by means of a process of self-division, consisting of gradual division or cleavage of the into two parts, each of which then becomes a separate and independent organisms; as when a cell in an animal or plant, or its germ, undergoes a spontaneous division, and the parts again subdivide. See Segmentation, and Cell division, under Division.  3. (Zoöl.)  A process by which certain coral polyps, echinoderms, annelids, etc., spontaneously subdivide, each individual thus forming two or more new ones. See Strobilation. 

FISSIPALMATE:  Semipalmate and loboped, as a grebe's foot. See Illust. under Aves. 

FISSIPARA:  Animals which reproduce by fission. 

FISSIPARISM:  Reproduction by spontaneous fission. 

FISSIPARITY:  Quality of being fissiparous; fissiparism. 

FISSIPAROUS:  Reproducing by spontaneous fission. See Fission.  -- Fis*sip"a*rous*ly, adv. 

FISSIPATION:  Reproduction by fission; fissiparism.  FISSIPED; FISSIPEDAL Fis"si*ped, Fis*sip"e*dal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. fissipède.] (Zoöl.)  Having the toes separated to the base. [See Aves.] 

FISSIPED:  One of the Fissipedia. 

FISSIPEDIA:  A division of the Carnivora, including the dogs, cats, and bears, in which the feet are not webbed; -- opposed to Pinnipedia. 

FISSIROSTRAL:  Having the bill cleft beyond the horny part, as in the case of swallows and goatsuckers. 

FISSIROSTRES:  A group of birds having the bill deeply cleft. 

FISSURAL:  Pertaining to a fissure or fissures; as, the fissural pattern of a brain. 

FISSURATION:  The act of dividing or opening; the state of being fissured. 

FISSURE:  A narrow opening, made by the parting of any substance; a cleft; as, the fissure of a rock. Cerebral fissures (Anat.), the furrows or clefts by which the surface of the cerebrum is divided; esp., the furrows first formed by the infolding of the whole wall of the cerebrum.  -- Fissure needle (Surg.), a spiral needle for catching together the gaping lips of wounds. Knight.  -- Fissure of rolando (Anat.), the furrow separating the frontal from the parietal lobe in the cerebrum.  -- Fissure of Sylvius (Anat.), a deep cerebral fissure separating the frontal from the temporal lobe. See Illust. under Brain.  -- Fissure vein (Mining), a crack in the earth's surface filled with mineral matter. Raymond. 

FISSURE:  To cleave; to divide; to crack or fracture. 

FISSURELLA:  A genus of marine gastropod mollusks, having a conical or limpetlike shell, with an opening at the apex; -- called also keyhole limpet. 

FIST:  the index mark [], used to direct special attention to the passage which follows. Hand over fist (Naut.), rapidly; hand over hand. 

FISTIC:  Pertaining to boxing, or to encounters with the fists; puglistic; as, fistic exploits; fistic heroes. [Colloq.] 

FISTICUFF:  A cuff or blow with the fist or hand; (pl.)  a fight with the fists; boxing. Swift. 

FISTINUT:  A pistachio nut. [Obs.] Johnson. 

FISTUCA:  An instrument used by the ancients in driving piles. 

FISTULA:  A permanent abnormal opening into the soft parts with a constant discharge; a deep, narrow, chronic abscess; an abnormal opening between an internal cavity and another cavity or the surface; as, a salivary fistula; an anal fistula; a recto-vaginal fistula. Incomplete fistula (Med.), a fistula open at one end only. 

FISTULAR:  Hollow and cylindrical, like a pipe or reed. Johnson. 

FISTULARIA:  A genus of fishes, having the head prolonged into a tube, with the mouth at the extremity. 

FISTULARIOID:  Like or pertaining to the genus Fistularia. 

FISTULATE:  To make hollow or become hollow like a fistula, or pipe. [Obs.] "A fistulated ulcer." Fuller. 

FISTULE:  A fistula. 

FISTULIFORM:  Of a fistular form; tubular; pipe-shaped. Stalactite often occurs fistuliform. W. Philips. 

FISTULOSE:  Formed like a fistula; hollow; reedlike. Craig. 

FIT:  imp. & p. p. of Fight. [Obs. or Colloq.] 

FIT:  In Old English, a song; a strain; a canto or portion of a ballad; a passus. [Written also fitte, fytte, etc.] To play some pleasant fit. Spenser. 

FITCH:  A vetch. [Obs.]  2. pl. (Bot.)  A word found in the Authorized Version of the Bible, representing different Hebrew originals. In Isaiah xxviii. 25, 27, it means the black aromatic seeds of Nigella sativa, still used as a flavoring in the East. In Ezekiel iv. 9, the Revised Version now reads spelt. 

FITCH:  The European polecat; also, its fur. 

FITCHE:  Sharpened to a point; pointed. Cross fitché, a cross having the lower arm pointed. 

FITCHED:  Fitché. [Also fiched.]  FITCHET; FITCHEW Fitch"et, Fitch"ew, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. fisseau, fissel, OD. fisse, visse, vitsche, D. vies nasty, loathsome, E. fizz.] (Zoöl.)  The European polecat (Putorius foetidus). See Polecat. 

FITCHY:  Having fitches or vetches. 

FITCHY:  Fitché. 

FITFUL:  Full of fits; irregularly variable; impulsive and unstable. After life's fitful fever, he sleeps well. Shak. -- Fit"ful*ly, adv.  -- Fit"ful*ness, n. The victorius trumpet peal Dies fitfully away. Macaulay.  FITHEL; FITHUL Fith"el, Fith"ul, n. Etym: [OE. See Fiddle.]  A fiddle [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FITLY:  In a fit manner; suitably; properly; conveniently; as, a maxim fitly applied. 

FITMENT:  The act of fitting; that which is proper or becoming; equipment. [Obs.] Shak. 

FITNESS:  The state or quality of being fit; as, the fitness of measures or laws; a person's fitness for office. 

FITT:  See 2d Fit. 

FITTABLE:  Suitable; fit. [Obs.] Sherwood. 

FITTEDNESS:  The state or quality of being fitted; adaptation. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

FITTER:  A little piece; a flitter; a flinder. [Obs.] Where's the Frenchman Alas, he's all fitters. Beau. & Fl. 

FITTING:  Anything used in fitting up; especially (pl.),  necessary fixtures or apparatus; as, the fittings of a church or study; gas fittings. 

FITTING:  Fit; appropriate; suitable; proper.  -- Fit"ting*ly, adv.  -- Fit"ting*ness, n. Jer. Taylor. 

FITWEED:  A plant (Eryngium foetidum) supposed to be a remedy for fits. 

FITZ:  A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp. of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as, Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke of Clarence. 

FIVE:  Four and one added; one more than four.  Five nations (Ethnol.), a confederacy of the Huron-Iroquois Indians, consisting of five tribes: Mohawks, Onondagas, Cayugas, Oneidas, and Senecas. They inhabited the region which is now the State of new York. 

FIVE:  See Cinquefoil.  2. (Zoöl.)  A starfish with five rays, esp. Asterias rubens. 

FIVEFOLD:  In fives; consisting of five in one; five repeated; quintuple.  FIVE-LEAF Five"-leaf`, n.  Cinquefoil; five-finger.  FIVE-LEAFED; FIVE-LEAVED Five"-leafed`, Five"-leaved`, a. (Bot.)  Having five leaflets, as the Virginia creeper. 

FIVELING:  A compound or twin crystal consisting of five individuals. 

FIVES:  A kind of play with a ball against a wall, resembling tennis; - - so named because three fives, or fifteen, are counted to the game. Smart. Fives court, a place for playing fives. 

FIVES:  A disease of the glands under the ear in horses; the vives. Shak.  FIVE-TWENTIES Five`-twen"ties, n. pl.  Five-twenty bonds of the United States (bearing six per cent interest), issued in 1862, '64, and '65, redeemable after five and payable in twenty years. 

FIX:  Fixed; solidified. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FIX:  To render (an impression) permanent by treating with such applications a will make it insensible to the action of light. Abney.  5. To put in prder; to arrange; to dispose of; to adjust; to set to rights; to set or place in the manner desired or most suitable; hence, to repair; as, to fix the clothes; to fix the furniture of a room. [Colloq. U.S.]  6. (Iron Manuf.)  To line the hearth of (a puddling furnace) with fettling.  Syn.  -- To arrange; prepare; adjust; place; establis; settle; determine. 

FIX:  fettling. [U.S.] 

FIXABLE:  Capable of being fixed. 

FIXATIVE:  That which serves to set or fix colors or drawings, as a mordant. 

FIXED:  Stable; non-volatile. Fixed air (Old Chem.), carbonic acid or carbon dioxide; -- so called by Dr. Black because it can be absorbed or fixed by strong bases. See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.  -- Fixed alkali (Old Chem.), a non-volatile base, as soda, or potash, in distinction from the volatile alkali ammonia.  -- Fixed ammunition (Mil.), a projectile and powder inclosed together in a case ready for loading.  -- Fixed battery (Mil.), a battery which contains heavy guns and mortars intended to remain stationary; -- distinguished from movable battery.  -- Fixed bodies, those which can not be volatilized or separated by a common menstruum, without great difficulty, as gold, platinum, lime, etc.  -- Fixed capital. See the Note under Capital, n., 4.  -- Fixed fact, a well established fact. [Colloq.] -- Fixed light, one which emits constant beams; -- distinguished from a flashing, revolving, or intermittent light.  -- Fixed oils (Chem.), non-volatile, oily substances, as stearine and olein, which leave a permanent greasy stain, and which can not be distilled unchanged; -- distinguished from volatile or essential oils.  -- Fixed pivot (Mil.), the fixed point about which any line of troops wheels.  -- Fixed stars (Astron.), such stars as always retain nearly the same apparent position and distance with respect to each other, thus distinguished from planets and comets. 

FIXEDLY:  In a fixed, stable, or constant manner. 

FIXIDITY:  Fixedness. [Obs.] Boyle. 

FIXING:  Arrangements; embellishments; trimmings; accompaniments. [Colloq. U.S.] 

FIXTURE:  Anything of an accessory character annexed to houses and lands, so as to constitute a part of them. This term is, however, quite frequently used in the peculiar sense of personal chattels annexed to lands and tenements, but removable by the person annexing them, or his personal representatives. In this latter sense, the same things may be fixtures under some circumstances, and not fixtures under others. Wharton (Law Dict. ). Bouvier.  Note: This word is frequently substituted for fixure (formerly the word in common use) in new editions of old works. 

FIXURE:  Fixed position; stable condition; firmness. [Obs.] Shak. 

FIZGIG:  A fishing spear. [Obs.] Sandys. 

FIZGIG:  A firework, made of damp powder, which makes a fizzing or hissing noise when it explodes. 

FIZGIG:  A gadding, flirting girl. Gosson. 

FIZZ:  To make a hissing sound, as a burning fuse. 

FIZZ:  A hising sound; as, the fizz of a fly. 

FIZZLE:  A failure or abortive effort. [Colloq.] 

FJORD:  See Fiord. 

FLABBERGAST:  To astonish; to strike with wonder, esp. by extraordinary statements. [Jocular] Beaconsfield. 

FLABBERGASTATION:  The state of being flabbergasted. [Jocular] London Punch. 

FLABBILY:  In a flabby manner. 

FLABBINESS:  Quality or state of being flabby. 

FLABBY:  Yielding to the touch, and easily moved or shaken; hanging loose by its own weight; wanting firmness; flaccid; as, flabby flesh. 

FLABEL:  A fan. [Obs.] Huloet. 

FLABELLATE:  Flabelliform. 

FLABELLATION:  The act of keeping fractured limbs cool by the use of a fan or some other contrivance. Dunglison. 

FLABELLIFORM:  Having the form of a fan; fan-shaped; flabellate. 

FLABELLINERVED:  Having many nerves diverging radiately from the base; -- said of a leaf. 

FLABELLUM:  A fan; especially, the fan carried before the pope on state occasions, made in ostrich and peacock feathers. Shipley. 

FLABILE:  Liable to be blown about. Bailey. 

FLACCID:  Yielding to pressure for want of firmness and stiffness; soft and weak; limber; lax; drooping; flabby; as, a flaccid muscle; flaccid flesh. Religious profession . . . has become flacced. I. Taylor. -- Flac"cid*ly, adv.  -- Flac"cid*ness, n. 

FLACCIDITY:  The state of being flaccid. 

FLACHERIE:  A bacterial disease of silkworms, supposed to be due to eating contaminated mulberry leaves. 

FLACKER:  To flutter, as a bird. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

FLACKET:  A barrel-shaped bottle; a flagon. 

FLACON:  A small glass bottle; as, a flacon for perfume. "Two glass flacons for the ink." Longfellow. 

FLAG:  An aquatic plant, with long, ensiform leaves, belonging to either of the genera Iris and Acorus. Cooper's flag, the cat-tail (Typha latifolia), the long leaves of which are placed between the staves of barrels to make the latter water-tight.  -- Corn flag. See under 2d Corn.  -- Flag broom, a coarse of broom, originally made of flags or rushes.  -- Flag root, the root of the sweet flag.  -- Sweet flag. See Calamus, n., 2. 

FLAG:  To furnish or deck out with flags. 

FLAG:  Any hard, evenly stratified sandstone, which splits into layers suitable for flagstones. 

FLAG:  To lay with flags of flat stones. The sides and floor are all flagged with . . . marble. Sandys. 

FLAGELLANT:  One of a fanatical sect which flourished in Europe in the 13th and 14th centuries, and maintained that flagellation was of equal virtue with baptism and the sacrament; -- called also disciplinant. 

FLAGELLATA:  An order of Infusoria, having one or two long, whiplike cilia, at the anterior end. It includes monads. See Infusoria, and Monad. 

FLAGELLATE:  To whip; to scourge; to flog. 

FLAGELLATE:  Of or pertaining to the Flagellata. 

FLAGELLATION:  A beating or flogging; a whipping; a scourging. Garth. 

FLAGELLATOR:  One who practices flagellation; one who whips or scourges. 

FLAGELLIFORM:  Shaped like a whiplash; long, slender, round, flexible, and (comming) tapering. 

FLAGELLUM:  A young, flexible shoot of a plant; esp., the long trailing branch of a vine, or a slender branch in certain mosses.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) A long, whiplike cilium. See Flagellata. (b) An appendage of the reproductive apparatus of the snail. (c) A lashlike appendage of a crustacean, esp. the terminal ortion of the antennæ and the epipodite of the maxilipeds. See Maxilliped. 

FLAGEOLET:  A small wooden pipe, having six or more holes, and a mouthpiece inserted at one end. It produces a shrill sound, softer than of the piccolo flute, and is said to have superseded the old recorder. Flageolet tones (Mus.), the naturel harmonics or overtones of stringed instruments. 

FLAGGINESS:  The condition of being flaggy; laxity; limberness. Johnson. 

FLAGGING:  A pavement or sidewalk of flagstones; flagstones, collectively. 

FLAGGING:  Growing languid, weak, or spiritless; weakening; delaying.  -- Flag"ging*ly, adv. 

FLAGGY:  Abounding with the plant called flag; as, a flaggy marsh. 

FLAGITATE:  To importune; to demand fiercely or with passion. [Archaic] Carcyle. 

FLAGITATION:  Importunity; urgent demand. [Archaic] Carlyle. 

FLAGMAN:  One who makes signals with a flag. 

FLAGON:  A vessel with a narrow mouth, used for holding and conveying liquors. It is generally larger than a bottle, and of leather or stoneware rather than of glass. A trencher of mutton chops, and a flagon of ale. Macaulay. 

FLAGRANCE:  Flagrancy. Bp. Hall. 

FLAGRANTLY:  In a flagrant manner. 

FLAGRATE:  To burn. [Obs.] Greenhill. 

FLAGRATION:  A conflagration. [Obs.] 

FLAGSHIP:  The vessel which carries the commanding officer of a fleet or squadron and flies his distinctive flag or pennant. 

FLAGSTAFF:  A staff on which a flag is hoisted. 

FLAGSTONE:  A flat stone used in paving, or any rock which will split into such stones. See Flag, a stone. 

FLAGWORM:  A worm or grub found among flags and sedge. 

FLAILY:  Acting like a flail. [Obs.] Vicars. 

FLAIN:  p. p. of Flay. Chaucer. 

FLAKE:  A small stage hung over a vessel's side, for workmen to stand on in calking, etc. 

FLAKE:  A sort of carnation with only two colors in the flower, the petals having large stripes. Flake knife (Archæol.), a cutting instrument used by savage tribes, made of a flake or chip of hard stone. Tylor.  -- Flake stand, the cooling tub or vessel of a still worm. Knight.  -- Flake white. (Paint.) (a) The purest white lead, in the form of flakes or scales. (b) The trisnitrate of bismuth. Ure. 

FLAKE:  To form into flakes. Pope. 

FLAKE:  To separate in flakes; to peel or scale off. 

FLAKINESS:  The state of being flaky. 

FLAKY:  Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, or cleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike. What showers of mortal hail, what flaky fires! Watts. A flaky weight of winter's purest snows. Wordsworth. 

FLAM:  A freak or whim; also, a falsehood; a lie; an illusory pretext; deception; delusion. [Obs.] A perpetual abuse and flam upon posterity. South. 

FLAM:  To deceive with a falsehood. [Obs.] God is not to be flammed off with lies. South. 

FLAMBE:  Decorated by glaze splashed or irregularly spread upon the surface, or apparently applied at the top and allowed to run down the sides; -- said of pieces of Chinese porcelain. 

FLAMBEAU:  A flaming torch, esp. one made by combining together a number of thick wicks invested with a quick-burning substance (anciently, perhaps, wax; in modern times, pitch or the like); hence, any torch. 

FLAMBOYANT:  Characterized by waving or flamelike curves, as in the tracery of windows, etc.; -- said of the later (15th century) French Gothic style. 

FLAMBOYER:  A name given in the East and West Indies to certain trees with brilliant blossoms, probably species of Cæsalpinia. 

FLAME:  To kindle; to inflame; to excite. And flamed with zeal of vengeance inwardly. Spenser.  FLAME-COLORED Flame"-col`ored, a.  Of the color of flame; of a bright orange yellow color. Shak. 

FLAMELESS:  Destitute of flame. Sandys. 

FLAMELET:  A small flame. The flamelets gleamed and flickered. Longfellow. 

FLAMEN:  A priest devoted to the service of a particular god, from whom he received a distinguishing epithet. The most honored were those of Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, called respectively Flamen Dialis, Flamen Martialis, and Flamen Quirinalis. Affrights the flamens at their service quaint. Milton. 

FLAMINEOUS:  Pertaining to a flamen; flaminical. 

FLAMINGLY:  In a flaming manner. 

FLAMINGO:  Any bird of the genus Phoenicopterus. The flamingoes have webbed feet, very long legs, and a beak bent down as if broken. Their color is usually red or pink. The American flamingo is P. ruber; the European is P. antiquorum. 

FLAMINICAL:  Pertaining to a flamen. Milton. 

FLAMMABILITY:  The quality of being flammable; inflammability. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FLAMMABLE:  Inflammable. [Obs.] 

FLAMMATION:  The act of setting in a flame or blaze. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne. 

FLAMMEOUS:  Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, flame. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FLAMMIFEROUS:  Producing flame. 

FLAMMIVOMOUS:  Vomiting flames, as a volcano. W. Thompson. (1745). 

FLAMMULATED:  Of a reddish color. 

FLAMY:  Flaming; blazing; flamelike; flame-colored; composed of flame. Pope. 

FLANCH:  A bearing consisting of a segment of a circle encroaching on the field from the side.  Note: Flanches are always in pairs. A pair of flanches is considered one of the subordinaries. 

FLANCHED:  Having flanches; -- said of an escutcheon with those bearings. 

FLANCONADE:  A thrust in the side. 

FLANERIE:  Lit., strolling; sauntering; hence, aimless; idleness; as, intellectual flânerie. 

FLANEUR:  One who strolls about aimlessly; a lounger; a loafer. 

FLANG:  A miner's two-pointed pick. 

FLANGE:  To make a flange on; to furnish with a flange. 

FLANGE:  To be bent into a flange. 

FLANGED:  Having a flange or flanges; as, a flanged wheel. 

FLANK:  That part of a bastion which reaches from the curtain to the face, and defends the curtain, the flank and face of the opposite bastion; any part of a work defending another by a fire along the outside of its parapet. See Illust. of Bastion.  3. (Arch.)  The side of any building. Brands.  4. That part of the acting surface of a gear wheel tooth that lies within the pitch line. Flank attack (Mil.), an attack upon the side of an army or body of troops, distinguished from one upon its front or rear.  -- Flank company (Mil.), a certain number of troops drawn up on the right or left of a battalion; usually grenadiers, light infantry, or riflemen.  -- Flank defense (Fort.), protection of a work against undue exposure to an enemy's direct fire, by means of the fire from other works, sweeping the ground in its front.  -- Flank en potence (Mil.), any part of the right or left wing formed at a projecting angle with the line.  -- Flank files, the first men on the right, and the last on the left, of a company, battalion, etc.  -- Flank march, a march made parallel or obliquely to an enemy's position, in order to turn it or to attack him on the flank.  -- Flank movement, a change of march by an army, or portion of one, in order to turn one or both wings of the enemy, or to take up a new position.  -- Flanks of a frontier, salient points in a national boundary, strengthened to protect the frontier against hostile incursion.  -- Flank patrol, detachments acting independently of the column of an army, but patrolling along its flanks, to secure it against surprise and to observe the movements of the enemy. 

FLANKER:  One who, or that which, flanks, as a skirmisher or a body of troops sent out upon the flanks of an army toguard a line of march, or a fort projecting so as to command the side of an assailing body. They threw out flankers, and endeavored to dislodge their assailants. W. Irwing. 

FLANNEL:  A soft, nappy, woolen cloth, of loose texture. Shak. Adam's flannel. (Bot.) See under Adam.  -- Canton flannel, Cotton flannel. See Cotton flannel, under Cotton. 

FLANNELED:  Covered or wrapped in flannel.  FLANNEL FLOWER Flan"nel flow`er. (Bot.)  (a) The common mullein.  (b) A Brazilian apocynaceous vine (Macrosiphonia longiflora) having woolly leaves.  (c) An umbelliferous Australian flower (Actinotus helianthi), often erroneously thought to be composite. The involucre looks as if cut out of white flannel. 

FLANNEN:  Made or consisting of flannel. [Obs.] "Flannen robes." Dryden. 

FLAP:  Anything broad and limber that hangs loose, or that is attached by one side or end and is easily moved; as, the flap of a garment. A cartilaginous flap upon the opening of the larynx. Sir T. Browne.  2. A hinged leaf, as of a table or shutter.  3. The motion of anything broad and loose, or a stroke or sound made with it; as, the flap of a sail or of a wing.  4. pl. (Far.)  A disease in the lips of horses. Flap tile, a tile with a bent up portion, to turn a corner or catch a drip.  -- Flap valve (Mech.), a valve which opens and shuts upon one hinged side; a clack valve. 

FLAPDRAGON:  To swallow whole, as a flapdragon; to devour. [Obs.] See how the sea flapdragoned it. Shak.  FLAP-EARED Flap"-eared`, a.  Having broad, loose, dependent ears. Shak. 

FLAPJACK:  Having broad, hangling lips. [R.] Shak. 

FLARE:  Leaf of lard. "Pig's flare." Dunglison.  FLARE-UP Flare"-up`, n.  A sudden burst of anger or passion; an angry dispute. [Colloq.] 

FLARINGLY:  In a flaring manner. 

FLASH:  To cover with a thin layer, as objects of glass with glass of a different color. See Flashing, n., 3 (b).  4. To trick up in a showy manner. Limning and flashing it with various dyes. A. Brewer.  5. Etym: [Perh. due to confusion between flash of light and plash, splash.]  To strike and throw up large bodies of water from the surface; to splash. [Obs.] He rudely flashed the waves about. Spenser. Flashed glass. See Flashing, n., 3. 

FLASH:  Slang or cant of thieves and prostitutes. 

FLASH:  A reservoir and sluiceway beside a navigable stream, just above a shoal, so that the stream may pour in water as boats pass, and thus bear them over the shoal. Flash wheel (Mech.), a paddle wheel made to revolve in a breast or curved water way, by which water is lifted from the lower to the higher level. 

FLASHBOARD:  A board placed temporarily upon a milldam, to raise the water in the pond above its usual level; a flushboard. [U.S.]  FLASH BOILER Flash boiler.  A variety of water-tube boiler, used chiefly in steam automobiles, consisting of a nest of strong tubes with very little water space, kept nearly red hot so that the water as it trickles drop by drop into the tubes is immediately flashed into steam and superheated.  FLASH BURNER Flash burner.  A gas burner with a device for lighting by an electric spark. 

FLASHILY:  In a flashy manner; with empty show. 

FLASHINESS:  The quality of being flashy. 

FLASHING:  The creation of an artifical flood by the sudden letting in of a body of water; -- called also flushing.  2. (Arch.)  Pieces of metal, built into the joints of a wall, so as to lap over the edge of the gutters or to cover the edge of the roofing; also, similar pieces used to cover the valleys of roofs of slate, shingles, or the like. By extension, the metal covering of ridges and hips of roofs; also, in the United States, the protecting of angles and breaks in walls of frame houses with waterproof material, tarred paper, or the like. Cf. Filleting.  3. (Glass Making) (a) The reheating of an article at the furnace aperture during manufacture to restore its plastic condition; esp., the reheating of a globe of crown glass to allow it to assume a flat shape as it is rotated. (b) A mode of covering transparent white glass with a film of colored glass. Knight. Flashing point (Chem.), that degree of temperature at which a volatile oil gives off vapor in sufficient quantity to burn, or flash, on the approach of a flame, used as a test of the comparative safety of oils, esp. kerosene; a flashing point of 100º F. is regarded as a fairly safe standard. The burning point of the oil is usually from ten to thirty degree above the flashing point of its vapor. 

FLASK:  The wooden or iron frame which holds the sand, etc., forming the mold used in a foundry; it consists of two or more parts; viz., the cope or top; sometimes, the cheeks, or middle part; and the drag, or bottom part. When there are one or more cheeks, the flask is called a three part flask, four part flask, etc. Erlenmeyer flask, a thin glass flask, flat-bottomed and cone-shaped to allow of safely shaking its contents laterally without danger of spilling; -- so called from Erlenmeyer, a German chemist who invented it.  -- Florence flask. Etym: [From Florence in Italy.] (a) Same as Betty, n., 3. (b) A glass flask, round or pear-shaped, with round or flat bottom, and usually very thin to allow of heating solutions.  -- Pocket flask, a kind of pocket dram bottle, often covered with metal or leather to protect it from breaking. 

FLAT:  Wanting relief; destitute of variety; without points of prominence and striking interest. A large part of the work is, to me, very flat. Coleridge.  4. Tasteless; stale; vapid; insipid; dead; as, fruit or drink flat to the taste.  5. Unanimated; dull; uninteresting; without point or spirit; monotonous; as, a flat speech or composition. How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable Seem to me all the uses of this world. Shak.  6. Lacking liveliness of commercial exchange and dealings; depressed; dull; as, the market is flat.  7. Clear; unmistakable; peremptory; absolute; positive; downright. Flat burglary as ever was committed. Shak. A great tobacco taker too, -- that's flat. Marston.  8. (Mus.) (a) Below the true pitch; hence, as applied to intervals, minor, or lower by a half step; as, a flat seventh; A flat. (b) Not sharp or shrill; not acute; as, a flat sound.  9. (Phonetics)  Sonant; vocal; -- applied to any one of the sonant or vocal consonants, as distinguished from a nonsonant (or sharp) consonant. Flat arch. (Arch.) See under Arch, n., 2. (b).  -- Flat cap, cap paper, not folded. See under Paper.  -- Flat chasing, in fine art metal working, a mode of ornamenting silverware, etc., producing figures by dots and lines made with a punching tool. Knight.  -- Flat chisel, a sculptor's chisel for smoothing.  -- Flat file, a file wider than its thickness, and of rectangular section. See File.  -- Flat nail, a small, sharp-pointed, wrought nail, with a flat, thin head, larger than a tack. Knight.  -- Flat paper, paper which has not been folded.  -- Flat rail, a railroad rail consisting of a simple flat bar spiked to a longitudinal sleeper.  -- Flat rods (Mining), horizontal or inclined connecting rods, for transmitting motion to pump rods at a distance. Raymond.  -- Flat rope, a rope made by plaiting instead of twisting; gasket; sennit.  Note: Some flat hoisting ropes, as for mining shafts, are made by sewing together a number of ropes, making a wide, flat band. Knight.  -- Flat space. (Geom.) See Euclidian space.  -- Flat stitch, the process of wood engraving. [Obs.] -- Flat tint (Painting), a coat of water color of one uniform shade.  -- To fall flat (Fig.), to produce no effect; to fail in the intended effect; as, his speech fell flat. Of all who fell by saber or by shot, Not one fell half so flat as Walter Scott. Lord Erskine. 

FLAT:  Without allowance for accrued interest. [Broker's Cant] 

FLAT:  A floor, loft, or story in a building; especially, a floor of a house, which forms a complete residence in itself.  6. (Mining)  A horizontal vein or ore deposit auxiliary to a main vein; also, any horizontal portion of a vein not elsewhere horizontal. Raymond.  7. A dull fellow; a simpleton; a numskull. [Colloq.] Or if you can not make a speech, Because you are a flat. Holmes.  8. (Mus.)  A character [] before a note, indicating a tone which is a half step or semitone lower.  9. (Geom.)  A homaloid space or extension. 

FLAT:  To fall form the pitch. To flat out, to fail from a promising beginning; to make a bad ending; to disappoint expectations. [Colloq.] 

FLATBILL:  Any bird of the genus Flatyrynchus. They belong to the family of flycatchers. 

FLATBOAT:  A boat with a flat bottom and square ends; -- used for the transportation of bulky freight, especially in shallow waters.  FLAT-BOTTOMED Flat"-bot`tomed, a.  Having an even lower surface or bottom; as, a flat-bottomed boat.  FLAT-CAP Flat"-cap`, n.  A kind of low-crowned cap formerly worn by all classes in England, and continued in London after disuse elsewhere; -- hence, a citizen of London. Marston. 

FLATFISH:  Any fish of the family Pleuronectidæ; esp., the winter flounder (Pleuronectes Americanus). The flatfishes have the body flattened, swim on the side, and have eyes on one side, as the flounder, turbot, and halibut. See Flounder.  FLAT FOOT Flat" foot`. (Med.)  A foot in which the arch of the instep is flattened so that the entire sole of the foot rests upon the ground; also, the deformity, usually congential, exhibited by such a foot; splayfoot.  FLAT-FOOTED Flat"-foot`ed, a.  1. Having a flat foot, with little or no arch of the instep.  2. Firm-footed; determined. [Slang, U.S.] 

FLATHEAD:  Characterized by flatness of head, especially that produced by artificial means, as a certain tribe of American Indians. 

FLATHEAD:  A Chinook Indian. See Chinook, n., 1.  FLAT-HEADED Flat"-head`ed, a.  Having a head with a flattened top; as, a flat-headed nail. 

FLATIRON:  An iron with a flat, smooth surface for ironing clothes. 

FLATIVE:  Producing wind; flatulent. [Obs.] A. Brewer. 

FLATLING:  With the flat side, as of a sword; flatlong; in a prostrate position. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FLATLONG:  ; 115), adv. With the flat side downward; not edgewise. Shak. 

FLATLY:  In a flat manner; evenly; horizontally; without spirit; dully; frigidly; peremptori;y; positively, plainly. "He flatly refused his aid." Sir P. Sidney. He that does the works of religion slowly, flatly, and without appetite. Jer. Taylor. 

FLATOUR:  A flatterer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FLATTEN:  To lower the pitch of; to cause to sound less sharp; to let fall from the pitch. To flatten a sail (Naut.), to set it more nearly fore-and-aft of the vessel.  -- Flattening oven, in glass making, a heated chamber in which split glass cylinders are flattened for window glass. 

FLATTEN:  To become or grow flat, even, depressed dull, vapid, spiritless, or depressed below pitch. 

FLATTER:  To use flattery or insincere praise. If it may stand him more in stead to lie, Say and unsay, feign, flatter, or adjure. Milton. 

FLATTERER:  One who flatters. The most abject flaterers degenerate into the greatest tyrants. Addison. 

FLATTERING:  That flatters (in the various senses of the verb); as, a flattering speech. Lay not that flattering unction to your soul. Shak. A flattering painter, who made it his care, To draw men as they ought be, not as they are. Goldsmith. 

FLATTERINGLY:  With flattery. 

FLATTERY:  The act or practice of flattering; the act of pleasing by artiful commendation or compliments; adulation; false, insincere, or excessive praise. Just praise is only a debt, but flattery is a present. Rambler. Flattery corrupts both the receiver and the giver. Burke.  Syn.  -- Adulation; compliment; obsequiousness. See Adulation. 

FLATTISH:  Somewhat flat. Woodward.  FLATULENCE; FLATULENCY Flat"u*lence, Flat"u*len*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. flatulence.]  The state or quality of being flatulent. 

FLATULENTLY:  In a flatulent manner; with flatulence. 

FLATUOSITY:  Flatulence. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FLATUOUS:  Windy; generating wind. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FLATWARE:  Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are more or less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware. 

FLATWARE:  Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are more or less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware. [Webster 1913 Suppl.] 

FLATWISE:  With the flat side downward, or next to another object; not edgewise. 

FLATWORM:  Any worm belonging to the Plathelminthes; also, sometimes applied to the planarians. 

FLAUNDRISH:  Flemish. [Obs.] 

FLAUNT:  To throw or spread out; to flutter; to move ostentatiously; as, a flaunting show. You flaunt about the streets in your new gilt chariot. Arbuthnot. One flaunts in rags, one flutters in brocade. Pope. 

FLAUNT:  To display ostentatiously; to make an impudent show of. 

FLAUNT:  Anything displayed for show. [Obs.] In these my borrowed flaunts. Shak. 

FLAUNTINGLY:  In a flaunting way. 

FLAUTIST:  A player on the flute; a flutist. 

FLAUTO:  A flute. Flaute piccolo ( Etym: [It., little flute], an octave flute.  -- Flauto traverso ( Etym: [It., transverse flute], the German flute, held laterally, instead of being played, like the old flûte a bec, with a mouth piece at the end. 

FLAVANILINE:  A yellow, crystalline, organic dyestuff, C16H14N2, of artifical production. It is a strong base, and is a complex derivative of aniline and quinoline. 

FLAVESCENT:  Turning yellow; yellowish. 

FLAVICOMOUS:  Having yellow hair. [R.] 

FLAVIN:  A yellow, vegetable dyestuff, resembling quercitron. 

FLAVINE:  A yellow, crystalline, organic base, C13H12N2O, obtained artificially. 

FLAVOL:  A yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from anthraquinone, and regarded as a hydroxyl derivative of it. 

FLAVOR:  To give flavor to; to add something (as salt or a spice) to, to give character or zest. 

FLAVORED:  Having a distinct flavor; as, high-flavored wine. 

FLAVORLESS:  Without flavor; tasteless. 

FLAVOROUS:  Imparting flavor; pleasant to the taste or smell; sapid. Dryden. 

FLAVOUS:  Yellow. [Obs.] 

FLAWLESS:  Free from flaws. Boyle. 

FLAWN:  A sort of flat custard or pie. [Obs.] Tusser. 

FLAWTER:  To scrape o [Obs.] Johnson. 

FLAX:  A plant of the genus Linum, esp. the L. usitatissimum, which has a single, slender stalk, about a foot and a half high, with blue flowers. The fiber of the bark is used for making thread and cloth, called linen, cambric, lawn, lace, etc. Linseed oil is expressed from the seed.  2. The skin or fibrous part of the flax plant, when broken and cleaned by hatcheling or combing. Earth flax (Min.), amianthus.  -- Flax brake, a machine for removing the woody portion of flax from the fibrous.  -- Flax comb, a hatchel, hackle, or heckle.  -- Flax cotton, the fiber of flax, reduced by steeping in bicarbinate of soda and acidulated liquids, and prepared for bleaching and spinning like cotton. Knight.  -- Flax dresser, one who breaks and swingles flax, or prepares it for the spinner.  -- Flax mill, a mill or factory where flax is spun or linen manufactured.  -- Flax puller, a machine for pulling flax plants in the field.  -- Flax wench. (a) A woman who spins flax. [Obs.] (b) A prostitute. [Obs.] Shak.  -- Mountain flax (Min.), amianthus.  -- New Zealand flax (Bot.) See Flax-plant. 

FLAXEN:  Made of flax; resembling flax or its fibers; of the color of flax; of a light soft straw color; fair and flowing, like flax or tow; as, flaxen thread; flaxen hair.  FLAX-PLANT Flax"-plant`, n. (Bot.)  A plant in new Zealand (Phormium tenax), allied to the lilies and aloes. The leaves are two inches wide and several feet long, and furnish a fiber which is used for making ropes, mats, and coarse cloth. 

FLAXSEED:  The seed of the flax; linseed. 

FLAXWEED:  See Toadflax. 

FLAXY:  Like flax; flaxen. Sir M. Sandys. 

FLAY:  To skin; to strip off the skin or surface of; as, to flay an ox; to flay the green earth. With her nails She 'll flay thy wolfish visage. Shak. 

FLAYER:  One who strips off the skin. 

FLEA:  To flay. [Obs.] He will be fleaced first And horse collars made of's skin. J. Fletcher. 

FLEA:  An insect belonging to the genus Pulex, of the order Aphaniptera. Fleas are destitute of wings, but have the power of leaping energetically. The bite is poisonous to most persons. The human flea (Pulex irritans), abundant in Europe, is rare in America, where the dog flea (P. canis) takes its place. See Aphaniptera, and Dog flea. See Illustration in Appendix. A flea in the ear, an unwelcome hint or unexpected reply, annoying like a flea; an irritating repulse; as, to put a flea in one's ear; to go away with a flea in one's ear.  -- Beach flea, Black flea, etc. See under Beach, etc. 

FLEABANE:  One of various plants, supposed to have efficacy in driving away fleas. They belong, for the most part, to the genera Conyza, Erigeron, and Pulicaria.  FLEA-BEETLE Flea"-bee`tle, n. (Zoöl.)  A small beetle of the family Halticidæ, of many species. They have strong posterior legs and leap like fleas. The turnip flea- beetle (Phyllotreta vittata) and that of the grapevine (Graptodera chalybea) are common injurious species.  FLEA-BITE Flea"-bite`, n.  1. The bite of a flea, or the red spot caused by the bite.  2. A trifling wound or pain, like that of the bite of a flea. Harvey.  FLEA-BITTEN Flea"-bit`ten, a.  1. Bitten by a flea; as, a flea-bitten face.  2. White, flecked with minute dots of bay or sorrel; -- said of the color of a horse. 

FLEAGH:  imp. of Fly. 

FLEAK:  A flake; a thread or twist. [Obs.] Little long fleaks or threads of hemp. Dr. H. More. 

FLEAKING:  A light covering of reeds, over which the main covering is laid, in thatching houses. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.  FLEA-LOUSE Flea"-louse`, n. (Zoöl.)  A jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidæ, of many species. That of the pear tree is Psylla pyri. 

FLEAM:  A sharp instrument used for opening veins, lancing gums, etc.; a kind of lancet. Fleam tooth, a tooth of a saw shaped like an isosceles triangle; a peg tooth. Knight. 

FLEAMY:  Bloody; clotted. [Obs. or Prov.] Foamy bubbling of a fleamy brain. Marston. 

FLEAR:  See Fleer. 

FLEAWORT:  An herb used in medicine (Plantago Psyllium), named from the shape of its seeds. Loudon. 

FLECHE:  A simple fieldwork, consisting of two faces forming a salient angle pointing outward and open at the gorge. 

FLECK:  A flake; also, a lock, as of wool. [Obs.] J. Martin. 

FLECK:  A spot; a streak; a speckle. "A sunny fleck." Longfellow. Life is dashed with flecks of sin. tennyson. 

FLECK:  To spot; to streak or stripe; to variegate; to dapple. Both flecked with white, the true Arcadian strain. Dryden. A bird, a cloud, flecking the sunny air. Trench. 

FLECKER:  To fleck. Johnson. 

FLECKLESS:  Without spot or blame. [R.] My consnience will not count me fleckless. Tennyson. 

FLECTIONAL:  Capable of, or pertaining to, flection or inflection. A flectional word is a phrase in the bud. Earle. 

FLECTOR:  A flexor. 

FLED:  imp. & p. p. of Flee. 

FLEDGE:  Feathered; furnished with feathers or wings; able to fly. Hfledge with wings. Milton. 

FLEDGELING:  A young bird just fledged. 

FLEE:  To run away, as from danger or evil; to avoid in an alarmed or cowardly manner; to hasten off; -- usually with from. This is sometimes omitted, making the verb transitive. [He] cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke. Shak. Flee fornication. 1 Cor. vi. 18. So fled his enemies my warlike father. Shak.  Note: When great speed is to be indicated, we commonly use fly, not flee; as, fly hence to France with the utmost speed. "Whither shall I fly to 'scape their hands" Shak. See Fly, v. i., 5. 

FLEECE:  The fine web of cotton or wool removed by the doffing knife from the cylinder of a carding machine. Fleece wool, wool shorn from the sheep.  -- Golden fleece. See under Golden. 

FLEECELESS:  Without a fleece. 

FLEECER:  One who fleeces or strips unjustly, especially by trickery or fraund. Prynne. 

FLEECY:  Covered with, made of, or resembling, a fleece. "Fleecy flocks." Prior. 

FLEEN:  Obs. pl. of Flea. Chaucer. 

FLEER:  One who flees. Ld. Berners. 

FLEER:  To mock; to flout at. Beau. & Fl. 

FLEERER:  One who fleers. Beau. & Fl. 

FLEERINGLY:  In a fleering manner. 

FLEET:  To slip on the whelps or the barrel of a capstan or windlass; - - said of a cable or hawser. 

FLEET:  A number of vessels in company, especially war vessels; also, the collective naval force of a country, etc. Fleet captain, the senior aid of the admiral of a fleet, when a captain. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

FLEET:  To take the cream from; to skim. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson. 

FLEETEN:  Fleeted or skimmed milk. [Obs.] Fleeten face, a face of the color of fleeten, i. e., blanched; hence, a coward. "You know where you are, you fleeten face." Beau. & Fl.  FLEET-FOOT Fleet"-foot`, a.  Swift of foot. Shak. 

FLEETING:  Passing swiftly away; not durable; transient; transitory; as, the fleeting hours or moments.  Syn.  -- Evanescent; ephemeral. See Transient. 

FLEETINGLY:  In a fleeting manner; swiftly. 

FLEETINGS:  A mixture of buttermilk and boiling whey; curds. [prov. Eng.] Wright. 

FLEETLY:  In a fleet manner; rapidly. 

FLEETNESS:  Swiftness; rapidity; velocity; celerity; speed; as, the fleetness of a horse or of time. 

FLEIGH:  imp. of Fly. Chaucer. 

FLEME:  To banish; to drive out; to expel. [Obs.] "Appetite flemeth discretion." Chaucer. 

FLEMER:  One who, or that which, banishes or expels. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FLEMING:  A native or inhabitant of Flanders. 

FLEMISH:  Pertaining to Flanders, or the Flemings.  -- n.  The language or dialect spoken by the Flemings; also, collectively, the people of Flanders. Flemish accounts (Naut.), short or deficient accounts. [Humorous]Ham. Nav. Encyc.  -- Flemish beauty (Bot.), a well known pear. It is one of few kinds which have a red color on one side.  -- Flemish bond. (Arch.) See Bond, n., 8.  -- Flemish brick, a hard yellow paving brick.  -- Flemish coil, a flat coil of rope with the end in the center and the turns lying against, without riding over, each other.  -- Flemish eye (Naut.), an eye formed at the end of a rope by dividing the strands and lying them over each other.  -- Flemish horse (Naut.), an additional footrope at the end of a yard. 

FLENCH:  Same as Flence. 

FLENSE:  To strip the blubber or skin from, as from a whale, seal, etc. the flensed carcass of a fur seal. U. S. Census (1880). 

FLESH:  To remove flesh, membrance, etc., from, as from hides. 

FLESHHOOD:  The state or condition of having a form of flesh; incarnation. [R.] Thou, who hast thyself Endured this fleshhood. Mrs. Browning. 

FLESHINESS:  The state of being fleshy; plumpness; corpulence; grossness. Milton. 

FLESHINGS:  Flesh-colored tights, worn by actors dancers. D. Jerrold. 

FLESHLESS:  Destitute of flesh; lean. Carlyle. 

FLESHLINESS:  The state of being fleshly; carnal passions and appetites. Spenser. 

FLESHLING:  A person devoted to fleshly things. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FLESHLY:  In a fleshly manner; carnally; lasciviously. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FLESHMENT:  The act of fleshing, or the excitement attending a successful beginning. [R.] Shak. 

FLESHMONGER:  One who deals in flesh; hence, a pimp; a procurer; a pander. [R.] Shak. 

FLESHPOT:  A pot or vessel in which flesh is cooked; hence (pl.),  plenty; high living. In the land of Egypt . . . we sat by the fleshpots, and . . . did eat bread to the full. Ex. xvi. 3. 

FLESHQUAKE:  A quaking or trembling of the flesh; a quiver. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

FLESHY:  Composed of firm pulp; succulent; as, the houseleek, cactus, and agave are fleshy plants. 

FLET:  Skimmed. [Obs.] 

FLETCH:  To feather, as an arrow. Bp. Warburton. [Congress] fletched their complaint, by adding: "America loved his brother." Bancroft. 

FLETCHER:  One who fletches of feathers arrows; a manufacturer of bows and arrows. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

FLETE:  To float; to swim. [Obs.] "Whether I sink or flete." Chaucer. 

FLETIFEROUS:  Producing tears. [Obs.] Blount.  FLEUR-DE-LIS Fleur`-de-lis`, n.; pl. Fleurs-de-lis. Etym: [F., flower of the lily. Cf. Flower-de-luce, Lily.]  1. (Bot.)  The iris. See Flower-de-luce.  2. A conventional flower suggested by the iris, and having a form which fits it for the terminal decoration of a scepter, the ornaments of a crown, etc. It is also a heraldic bearing, and is identified with the royal arms and adornments of France. 

FLEURON:  A flower-shaped ornament, esp. one terminating an object or forming one of a series, as a knob of a cover to a dish, or a flower- shaped part in a necklace. 

FLEURY:  Finished at the ends with fleurs-de-lis; -- said esp. a cross so decorated. 

FLEW:  imp. of Fly. 

FLEWED:  Having large flews. Shak. 

FLEWS:  The pendulous or overhanging lateral parts of the upper lip of dogs, especially prominent in hounds; -- called also chaps. See Illust. of Bloodhound. 

FLEX:  To bend; as, to flex the arm. 

FLEX:  Flax. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FLEXANIMOUS:  Having power to change the mind. [Obs.] Howell. 

FLEXIBILITY:  The state or quality of being flexible; flexibleness; pliancy; pliability; as, the flexibility of strips of hemlock, hickory, whalebone or metal, or of rays of light. Sir I. Newton. All the flexibility of a veteran courtier. Macaulay. 

FLEXICOSTATE:  Having bent or curved ribs. 

FLEXILE:  Flexible; pliant; pliable; easily bent; plastic; tractable. Wordsworth. 

FLEXION:  Syntactical change of form of words, as by declension or conjugation; inflection. Express the syntactical relations by flexion. Sir W. Hamilton.  4. (Physiol.)  The bending of a limb or joint; that motion of a joint which gives the distal member a continually decreasing angle with the axis of the proximal part; -- distinguished from extension. 

FLEXOR:  A muscle which bends or flexes any part; as, the flexors of the arm or the hand; -- opposed to extensor. 

FLEXUOSE:  Flexuous. 

FLEXUOUS:  Having alternate curvatures in opposite directions; bent in a zigzag manner.  3. Wavering; not steady; flickering. Bacon. 

FLEXURAL:  Of, pertaining to, or resulting from, flexure; of the nature of, or characterized by, flexure; as, flexural elasticity. 

FLEXURE:  The last joint, or bend, of the wing of a bird.  4. (Astron.)  The small distortion of an astronomical instrument caused by the weight of its parts; the amount to be added or substracted from the observed readings of the instrument to correct them for this distortion. The flexure of a curve (Math.), the bending of a curve towards or from a straight line. 

FLIBBERGIB:  A sycophant. [Obs. & Humorous.] "Flatterers and flibbergibs." Latimer. 

FLIBBERTIGIBBET:  An imp. Shak. 

FLIBUSTIER:  A buccaneer; an American pirate. See Flibuster. [Obs.] 

FLICK:  To whip lightly or with a quick jerk; to flap; as, to flick a horse; to flick the dirt from boots. Thackeray. 

FLICK:  A flitch; as, a flick of bacon. 

FLICKER:  The golden-winged woodpecker (Colaptes aurutus); -- so called from its spring note. Called also yellow-hammer, high-holder, pigeon woodpecker, and yucca. The cackle of the flicker among the oaks. Thoureau. 

FLICKERINGLY:  In a flickering manner. 

FLICKERMOUSE:  See Flittermouse. 

FLIDGE:  Fledged; fledge. [Obs.] Holland. 

FLIDGE:  To become fledged; to fledge. [Obs.] Every day build their nests, every hour flidge. R. Greene. 

FLIER:  A fly. See Fly, n., 9, and 13 (b).  3. (Spinning)  See Flyer, n., 5.  4. (Arch.)  See Flyer, n., 4. 

FLIGHTED:  Feathered; -- said of arrows. 

FLIGHTER:  A horizontal vane revolving over the surface of wort in a cooler, to produce a circular current in the liquor. Knight. 

FLIGHTILY:  In a flighty manner. 

FLIGHTINESS:  The state or quality of being flighty. The flightness of her temper. Hawthorne.  Syn.  -- Levity; giddiness; volatility; lightness; wildness; eccentricity. See Levity.  FLIGHT-SHOT Flight"-shot`, n.  The distance to which an arrow or flight may be shot; bowshot, -- about the fifth of a mile. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Within a flight-shot it inthe valley. Evelyn. Half a flight-shot from the king's oak. Sir W. Scott. 

FLIMFLAM:  A freak; a trick; a lie. Beau. & Fl. 

FLIMSILY:  In a flimsy manner. 

FLIMSINESS:  The state or quality of being flimsy. 

FLIMSY:  Weak; feeble; limp; slight; vain; without strength or solidity; of loose and unsubstantial structure; without reason or plausibility; as, a flimsy argument, excuse, objection. Proud of a vast extent of flimsy lines. Pope. All the flimsy furniture of a country miss's brain. Sheridan.  Syn.  -- Weak; feeble; superficial; shallow; vain. 

FLINCH:  To let the foot slip from a ball, when attempting to give a tight croquet. 

FLINCH:  The act of flinching. 

FLINCHER:  One who flinches or fails. 

FLINCHINGLY:  In a flinching manner. 

FLINDERMOUSE:  A bat; a flittermouse. 

FLINDERS:  Small pieces or splinters; fragments. The tough ash spear, so stout and true, Into a thousand flinders flew. Sir W. Scott. 

FLINGDUST:  One who kicks up the dust; a streetwalker; a low manner. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

FLINGER:  One who flings; one who jeers. 

FLINT:  A massive, somewhat impure variety of quartz, in color usually of a gray to brown or nearly black, breaking with a conchoidal fracture and sharp edge. It is very hard, and strikes fire with steel.  2. A piece of flint for striking fire; -- formerly much used, esp. in the hammers of gun locks.  3. Anything extremely hard, unimpressible, and unyielding, like flint. "A heart of flint." Spenser. Flint age. (Geol.) Same as Stone age, under Stone.  -- Flint brick, a fire made principially of powdered silex.  -- Flint glass. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Flint implements (Archæol.), tools, etc., employed by men before the use of metals, such as axes, arrows, spears, knives, wedges, etc., which were commonly made of flint, but also of granite, jade, jasper, and other hard stones.  -- Flint mill. (a) (Pottery) A mill in which flints are ground. (b) (Mining) An obsolete appliance for lighting the miner at his work, in which flints on a revolving wheel were made to produce a shower of sparks, which gave light, but did not inflame the fire damp. Knight.  -- Flint stone, a hard, siliceous stone; a flint.  -- Flint wall, a kind of wall, common in England, on the face of which are exposed the black surfaces of broken flints set in the mortar, with quions of masonry.  -- Liquor of flints, a solution of silica, or flints, in potash.  -- To skin a flint, to be capable of, or guilty of, any expedient or any meanness for making money. [Colloq.]  FLINT GLASS Flint" glass`. (Chem.)  A soft, heavy, brilliant glass, consisting essentially of a silicate of lead and potassium. It is used for tableware, and for optical instruments, as prisms, its density giving a high degree of dispersive power; -- so called, because formerly the silica was obtained from pulverized flints. Called also crystal glass. Cf. Glass.  Note: The concave or diverging half on an achromatic lens is usually made of flint glass.  FLINT-HEARTED Flint"-heart`ed, a.  Hard-hearted. Shak. 

FLINTINESS:  The state or quality of being flinty; hardness; cruelty. Beau. & Fl. 

FLINTWARE:  A superior kind of earthenware into whose composition flint enters largely. Knight. 

FLINTWOOD:  An Australian name for the very hard wood of the Eucalyptus piluralis. 

FLINTY:  Consisting of, composed of, abounding in, or resembling, flint; as, a flinty rock; flinty ground; a flinty heart. Flinty rockFlinty state, a siliceous slate; -- basanite is here included. See Basanite. 

FLIP:  A mixture of beer, spirit, etc., stirred and heated by a hot iron. Flip dog, an iron used, when heated, to warm flip. 

FLIP:  To toss or fillip; as, to flip up a cent. As when your little ones Do 'twixt their fingers flip their cherry stones. W. Browne. 

FLIPE:  To turn inside out, or with the leg part back over the foot, as a stocking in pulling off or for putting on. [Scot.]  FLIP-FLAP Flip"-flap`, n. Etym: [See Flip, and Flap.]  The repeated stroke of something long and loose. Johnson.  FLIP-FLAP Flip"-flap`, adv.  With repeated strokes and noise, as of something long and loose. Ash. 

FLIPPANCY:  The state or quality of being flippant. This flippancy of language. Bp. Hurd. 

FLIPPANT:  A flippant person. [R.] Tennyson. 

FLIPPANTLY:  In a flippant manner. 

FLIPPANTNESS:  State or quality of being flippant. 

FLIPPER:  A broad flat limb used for swimming, as those of seals, sea turtles, whales, etc.  2. (Naut.)  The hand. [Slang] 

FLIRT:  One who flirts; esp., a woman who acts with giddiness, or plays at courtship; a coquette; a pert girl. Several young flirts about town had a design to cast us out of the fashionable world. Addison. 

FLIRT:  Pert; wanton. [Obs.] 

FLIRTATION:  A woman of light behavior; a gill-flirt. [Obs.] Shak. You heard him take me up like a flirt-gill. Beau. & Fl. 

FLIRTIGIG:  A wanton, pert girl. [Obs.] 

FLIRTINGLY:  In a flirting manner. 

FLISK:  To frisk; to skip; to caper. [Obs. Scot.] "The flisking flies." Gosson. 

FLISK:  A caper; a spring; a whim. [Scot.] 

FLIT:  Nimble; quick; swift. [Obs.] See Fleet. 

FLITE:  To scold; to quarrel. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.  FLITE; FLYTE Flite, Flyte, n. [AS. flit. See Flite.]  Strife; dispute; abusive or upbraiding talk, as in fliting; wrangling. [Obs. or Scot. & Prov. Eng.]  The bird of Pallas has also a good "flyte" on the moral side . . . in his suggestion that the principal effect of the nightingale's song is to make women false to their husbands. Saintsbury. 

FLITTER:  To flutter. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FLITTER:  To flutter; to move quickly; as, to flitter the cards. [R.] Lowell. 

FLITTER:  A rag; a tatter; a small piece or fragment. 

FLITTERMOUSE:  A bat; -- called also flickermouse, flindermouse, and flintymouse. 

FLITTERN:  A term applied to the bark obtained from young oak trees. McElrath. 

FLITTINESS:  Unsteadiness; levity; lightness. [Obs.] Bp. Hopkins. 

FLITTING:  Contention; strife; scolding; specif., a kind of metrical contest between two persons, popular in Scotland in the 16th century. [Obs. or Scot.]  These "flytings" consisted of alternate torrents of sheer Billingsgate poured upon each other by the combatants. Saintsbury. 

FLITTINGLY:  In a flitting manner. 

FLITTY:  Unstable; fluttering. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

FLIX:  Down; fur. [Obs. or Eng.] J. Dyer. 

FLIX:  The flux; dysentery. [Obs.] Udall. Flix weed (Bot.), the Sisymbrium Sophia, a kind of hedge mustard, formerly used as a remedy for dysentery. 

FLO:  An arrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FLOAT:  A contrivance for affording a copious stream of water to the heated surface of an object of large bulk, as an anvil or die. Knight.  4. The act of flowing; flux; flow. [Obs.] Bacon.  5. A quantity of earth, eighteen feet square and one foot deep. [Obs.] Mortimer.  6. (Plastering)  The trowel or tool with which the floated coat of plastering is leveled and smoothed.  7. A polishing block used in marble working; a runner. Knight.  8. A single-cut file for smoothing; a tool used by shoemakers for rasping off pegs inside a shoe.  9. A coal cart. [Eng.] Simmonds.  10. The sea; a wave. See Flote, n. Float board, one of the boards fixed radially to the rim of an undershot water wheel or of a steamer's paddle wheel; -- a vane.  -- Float case (Naut.), a caisson used for lifting a ship.  -- Float copper or gold (Mining), fine particles of metallic copper or of gold suspended in water, and thus liable to be lost.  -- Float ore, water-worn particles of ore; fragments of vein material found on the surface, away from the vein outcrop. Raymond.  -- Float stone (Arch.), a siliceous stone used to rub stonework or brickwork to a smooth surface.  -- Float valve, a valve or cock acted upon by a float. See Float, 1 (b). 

FLOAT:  To pass over and level the surface of with a float while the plastering is kept wet.  4. To support and sustain the credit of, as a commercial scheme or a joint-stock company, so as to enable 

FLOATABLE:  That may be floated. 

FLOATAGE:  Same as Flotage. 

FLOATATION:  See Flotation. 

FLOATING:  Floating threads. See Floating threads, above.  2. The second coat of three-coat plastering. Knight.  FLOATING CHARGE; FLOATING LIEN Floating charge, lien, etc. (Law)  A charge, lien, etc., that successively attaches to such assets as a person may have from time to time, leaving him more or less free to dispose of or encumber them as if no such charge or lien existed. 

FLOATINGLY:  In a floating manner. 

FLOATY:  Swimming on the surface; buoyant; light. Sir W. Raleigh. 

FLOBERT:  A small cartridge designed for target shooting; -- sometimes called ball cap. Flobert rifle, a rifle adapted to the use of floberts. 

FLOCCILLATION:  A delirious picking of bedclothes by a sick person, as if to pick off flocks of wool; carphology; -- an alarming symptom in acute diseases. Dunglison. 

FLOCCOSE:  Having tufts of soft hairs, which are often deciduous. 

FLOCCULAR:  Of or pertaining to the flocculus. 

FLOCCULATE:  To aggregate into small lumps. 

FLOCCULATE:  Furnished with tufts of curly hairs, as some insects. 

FLOCCULATION:  The process by which small particles of fine soils and sediments aggregate into larger lumps. 

FLOCCULENCE:  The state of being flocculent. 

FLOCCULENT:  Applied to the down of newly hatched or unfledged birds. 

FLOCCULUS:  A small lobe in the under surface of the cerebellum, near the middle peduncle; the subpeduncular lobe. 

FLOCCUS:  A woolly filament sometimes occuring with the sporules of certain fungi. 

FLOCK:  To gather in companies or crowds. Friends daily flock. Dryden. Flocking fowl (Zoöl.), the greater scaup duck. 

FLOCK:  To flock to; to crowd. [Obs.] Good fellows, trooping, flocked me so. Taylor (1609). 

FLOCK:  To coat with flock, as wall paper; to roughen the surface of (as glass) so as to give an appearance of being covered with fine flock. 

FLOCKLING:  A lamb. [Obs.] Brome (1659). 

FLOCKLY:  In flocks; in crowds. [Obs.] 

FLOCKMEL:  In a flock; in a body. [Obs.] That flockmel on a day they to him went. Chaucer. 

FLOCKY:  Abounding with flocks; floccose. 

FLOE:  A low, flat mass of floating ice. Floe rat (Zoöl.), a seal (Phoca foetida). 

FLOG:  To beat or strike with a rod or whip; to whip; to lash; to chastise with repeated blows. 

FLOGGING:  from Flog, v. t. Flogging chisel (Mach.), a large cold chisel, used in chipping castings.  -- Flogging hammer, a small sledge hammer used for striking a flogging chisel. 

FLON:  See Flo. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FLONG:  imp. & p. p. of Fling. 

FLOODAGE:  Inundation. [R.] Carlyle. 

FLOODER:  One who floods anything. 

FLOODING:  The filling or covering with water or other fluid; overflow; inundation; the filling anything to excess.  2. (Med.)  An abnormal or excessive discharge of blood from the uterus. Dunglison. 

FLOOK:  A fluke of an anchor.  FLOOKAN; FLUKAN Flook"an, Flu"kan, n. (Mining)  See Flucan. 

FLOOKY:  Fluky. 

FLOOR:  That part of the bottom of a vessel on each side of the keelson which is most nearly horizontal.  7. (Mining) (a) The rock underlying a stratified or nearly horizontal deposit. (b) A horizontal, flat ore body. Raymond. Floor cloth, a heavy fabric, painted, varnished, or saturated, with waterproof material, for covering floors; oilcloth.  -- Floor cramp, an implement for tightening the seams of floor boards before nailing them in position.  -- Floor light, a frame with glass panes in a floor.  -- Floor plan. (a) (Shipbuilding) A longitudinal section, showing a ship as divided at the water line. (b) (Arch.) A horizontal section, showing the thickness of the walls and partitions, arrangement of passages, apartments, and openings at the level of any floor of a house. 

FLOORAGE:  Floor space. 

FLOORER:  Anything that floors or upsets a person, as a blow that knocks him down; a conclusive answer or retort; a task that exceeds one's abilities. [Colloq.] 

FLOORHEADS:  The upper extermities of the floor of a vessel. 

FLOORING:  A platform; the bottom of a room; a floor; pavement. See Floor, n. Addison.  2. Material for the construction of a floor or floors. 

FLOORLESS:  Having no floor. 

FLOORWALKER:  One who walks about in a large retail store as an overseer and director. [U.S.] 

FLOP:  Act of flopping. [Colloq.] W. H. Russell. 

FLOPPY:  Having a tendency to flop or flap; as, a floppy hat brim. G. Eliot. 

FLOPWING:  The lapwing. 

FLORA:  The goddess of flowers and spring.  2. (Bot.)  The complete system of vegetable species growing without cultivation in a given locality, region, or period; a list or description of, or treatise on, such plants. 

FLORAL:  Containing, or belonging to, a flower; as, a floral bud; a floral leaf; floral characters. Martyn. Floral envelope (Bot.), the calyx and corolla, one or the other of which (mostly the corolla) may be wanting. 

FLORALLY:  In a floral manner. 

FLORAMOUR:  The plant love-lies-bleeding. [Obs.] Prior. 

FLORAN:  Tin ore scarcely perceptible in the stone; tin ore stamped very fine. Pryce. 

FLOREAL:  The eight month of the French republican calendar. It began April 20, and ended May 19. See Vendémiare. 

FLOREN:  A cerain gold coin; a Florence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FLORENTINE:  Belonging or relating to Florence, in Italy. Florentine mosaic, a mosaic of hard or semiprecious stones, often so chosen and arranged that their natural colors represent leaves, flowers, and the like, inlaid in a background, usually of black or white marble. 

FLORESCENCE:  A bursting into flower; a blossoming. Martyn. 

FLORESCENT:  Expanding into flowers; blossoming. 

FLORET:  A little flower; one of the numerous little flowers which compose the head or anthodium in such flowers as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion. Gray.  2. Etym: [F. fleuret.]  A foil; a blunt sword used in fencing. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

FLORIAGE:  Bloom; blossom. [Obs.] J. Scott. 

FLORIATED:  Having floral ornaments; as, floriated capitals of Gothic pillars. 

FLORICOMOUS:  Having the head adorned with flowers. [R.] 

FLORICULTURAL:  Pertaining to the cultivation of flowering plants. 

FLORICULTURE:  The cultivation of flowering plants. 

FLORICULTURIST:  One skilled in the cultivation of flowers; a florist. 

FLORID:  Flowery; ornamental; running in rapid melodic figures, divisions, or passages, as in variations; full of fioriture or little ornamentations.  FLORIDA BEAN Flor"i*da bean". (Bot.) (a) The large, roundish, flattened seed of Mucuna urens. See under Bean. (b) One of the very large seeds of the Entada scandens. 

FLORIDEAE:  A subclass of algæ including all the red or purplish seaweeds; the Rhodospermeæ of many authors; -- so called from the rosy or florid color of most of the species. 

FLORIDITY:  The quality of being florid; floridness. Floyer. 

FLORIDLY:  In a florid manner. 

FLORIDNESS:  The quality of being florid. Boyle. 

FLORIFEROUS:  Producing flowers. Blount. 

FLORIFICATION:  The act, process, or time of flowering; florescence. 

FLORIFORM:  Having the form of a flower; flower-shaped. 

FLORIKEN:  An Indian bustard (Otis aurita). The Bengal floriken is Sypheotides Bengalensis. [Written also florikan, floriken, florican.] 

FLORILEGE:  The act of gathering flowers. 

FLORIMER:  See Floramour. [Obs.] 

FLORIN:  A silver coin of Florence, first struck in the twelfth century, and noted for its beauty. The name is given to different coins in different countries. The florin of England, first minted in 1849, is worth two shillings, or about 48 cents; the florin of the Netherlands, about 40 cents; of Austria, about 36 cents. 

FLOROON:  A border worked with flowers. Wright. 

FLORULENT:  Flowery; blossoming. [Obs.] Blount. 

FLOSCULAR:  Flosculous. 

FLOSCULARIAN:  One of a group of stalked rotifers, having ciliated tentacles around the lobed disk. 

FLOSCULE:  A floret. 

FLOSCULOUS:  Consisting of many gamopetalous florets.  FLOS-FERRI Flos`-fer"ri, n.Etym: [L., flower of iron.] (Min.)  A variety of aragonite, occuring in delicate white coralloidal forms; -- common in beds of iron ore. 

FLOSH:  A hopper-shaped box or Knight. 

FLOSS:  The slender styles of the pistillate flowers of maize; also called silk.  2. Untwisted filaments of silk, used in embroidering. Floss silk, silk that has been twisted, and which retains its loose and downy character. It is much used in embroidery. Called also floxed silk.  -- Floss thread, a kind of soft flaxen yarn or thread, used for embroidery; -- called also linen floss, and floss yarn. McElrath. 

FLOSSIFICATION:  A flowering; florification. [R.] Craig. 

FLOSSY:  Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, floss; hence, light; downy. 

FLOTA:  A fleet; especially, a 

FLOTANT:  Represented as flying or streaming in the air; as, a banner flotant. 

FLOTATION:  A process of separating the substances contained in pulverized ore or the like by depositing the mixture on the  surface of a flowing liquid, the substances that are quickly wet readily overcoming the surface tension of the liquid and sinking, the others flowing off in a film or slime on the surface, though, perhaps, having a greater specific gravity than those that sink. 

FLOTE:  To fleet; to skim. [Obs.] Tusser. 

FLOTE:  A wave. [Obs.] "The Mediterranean flote." Shak. 

FLOTERY:  Wavy; flowing. [Obs.] With flotery beard. Chaucer. 

FLOTILLA:  A little fleet, or a fleet of small vessels.  FLOTSAM; FLOTSON Flot"sam, Flot"son, n. Etym: [F. flotter to float. See FFlotilla, and cf. Jetsam.] (Law)  Goods lost by shipwreck, and floating on the sea; -- in distinction from jetsam or jetson. Blackstone. 

FLOTTEN:  Skimmed. [Obs.] 

FLOUNCE:  To throw the limbs and body one way and the other; to spring, turn, or twist with sudden effort or violence; to struggle, as a horse in mire; to flounder; to throw one's self with a jerk or spasm, often as in displeasure. To flutter and flounce will do nothing but batter and bruise us. Barrow. With his broad fins and forky tail he laves The rising sirge, and flounces in the waves. Addison. 

FLOUNCE:  The act of floucing; a sudden, jerking motion of the body. 

FLOUNCE:  An ornamental appendage to the skirt of a woman's dress, consisting of a strip gathered and sewed on by its upper edge around the skirt, and left hanging. 

FLOUNCE:  To deck with a flounce or flounces; as, to flounce a petticoat or a frock. 

FLOUNDER:  A flatfish of the family Pleuronectidæ, of many species.  Note: The common English flounder is Pleuronectes flesus. There are several common American species used as food; as the smooth flounder (P. glabra); the rough or winter flounder (P. Americanus); the summer flounder, or plaice (Paralichthys dentatus), Atlantic coast; and the starry flounder (Pleuronectes stellatus).  2. (Bootmaking)  A tool used in crimping boot fronts. 

FLOUNDER:  To fling the limbs and body, as in making efforts to move; to struggle, as a horse in the mire, or as a fish on land; to roll, toss, and tumble; to flounce. They have floundered on from blunder to blunder. Sir W. Hamilton. 

FLOUNDER:  The act of floundering. 

FLOUR:  The finely ground meal of wheat, or of any other grain; especially, the finer part of meal separated by bolting; hence, the fine and soft powder of any substance; as, flour of emery; flour of mustard. Flour bolt, in milling, a gauze-covered, revolving, cylindrical frame or reel, for sifting the flour from the refuse contained in the meal yielded by the stones.  -- Flour box a tin box for scattering flour; a dredging box.  -- Flour dredge or dredger, a flour box.  -- Flour dresser, a mashine for sorting and distributing flour according to grades of fineness.  -- Flour mill, a mill for grinding and sifting flour. 

FLOURED:  Finely granulated; -- said of quicksilver which has been granulated by agitation during the amalgamation process. Raymond. 

FLOURISHER:  One who flourishes. 

FLOURISHINGLY:  , adv. In a flourishing manner; ostentatiously. 

FLOURY:  Of or resembling flour; mealy; covered with flour. Dickens. 

FLOUT:  To mock or insult; to treat with contempt. Phillida flouts me. Walton. Three gaudy standarts lout the pale blue sky. Byron. 

FLOUT:  To practice mocking; to behave with contempt; to sneer; to fleer; -- often with at. Fleer and gibe, and laugh and flout. Swift. 

FLOUT:  A mock; an insult. Who put your beauty to this flout and scorn. Tennyson. 

FLOUTER:  One who flouts; a mocker. 

FLOUTINGLY:  With flouting; insultingly; as, to treat a lover floutingly. 

FLOW:  imp. sing. of Fly, v. i. Chaucer. 

FLOWAGE:  An overflowing with water; also, the water which thus overflows. 

FLOWEN:  imp. pl. of Fly, v. i. Chaucer. 

FLOWER:  That part of a plant destined to produce seed, and hence including one or both of the sexual organs; an organ or combination of the organs of reproduction, whether inclosed by a circle of foliar parts or not. A complete flower consists of two essential parts, the stamens and the pistil, and two floral envelopes, the corolla and callyx. In mosses the flowers consist of a few special leaves surrounding or subtending organs called archegonia. See Blossom, and Corolla.  Note: If we examine a common flower, such for instance as a geranium, we shall find that it consists of: First, an outer envelope or calyx, sometimes tubular, sometimes consisting of separate leaves called sepals; secondly, an inner envelope or corolla, which is generally more or less colored, and which, like the calyx, is sometimes tubular, sometimes composed of separate leaves called petals; thirdly, one or more stamens, consisting of a stalk or filament and a head or anther, in which the pollen is produced; and fourthly, a pistil, which is situated in the center of the flower, and consists generally of three principal parts; one or more compartments at the base, each containing one or more seeds; the stalk or style; and the stigma, which in many familiar instances forms a small head, at the top of the style or ovary, and to which the pollen must find its way in order to fertilize the flower. Sir J. Lubbock.  3. The fairest, freshest, and choicest part of anything; as, the flower of an army, or of a family; the state or time of freshness and bloom; as, the flower of life, that is, youth. The choice and flower of all things profitable the Psalms do more briefly contain. Hooker. The flower of the chivalry of all Spain. Southey. A simple maiden in her flower Is worth a hundred coats of arms. Tennyson.  4. Grain pulverized; meal; flour. [Obs.] The flowers of grains, mixed with water, will make a sort of glue. Arbuthnot.  5. pl. (Old. Chem.)  A substance in the form of a powder, especially when condensed from sublimation; as, the flowers of sulphur.  6. A figure of speech; an ornament of style.  7. pl. (Print.)  Ornamental type used chiefly for borders around pages, cards, etc. W. Savage.  8. pl.  Menstrual discharges. Lev. xv. 24. Animal flower (Zoöl.) See under Animal.  -- Cut flowers, flowers cut from the stalk, as for making a bouquet.  -- Flower bed, a plat in a garden for the cultivation of flowers.  -- Flower beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle which feeds upon flowers, esp. any one of numerous small species of the genus Meligethes, family Nitidulidæ, some of which are injurious to crops.  -- Flower bird (Zoöl.), an Australian bird of the genus Anthornis, allied to the honey eaters.  -- Flower bud, an unopened flower.  -- Flower clock, an assemblage of flowers which open and close at different hours of the day, thus indicating the time.  -- Flower head (Bot.), a compound flower in which all the florets are sessile on their receptacle, as in the case of the daisy.  -- Flower pecker (Zoöl.), one of a family (Dicæidæ) of small Indian and Australian birds. They resemble humming birds in habits.  -- Flower piece. (a) A table ornament made of cut flowers. (b) (Fine Arts) A picture of flowers.  -- Flower stalk (Bot.), the peduncle of a plant, or the stem that supports the flower or fructification. 

FLOWER:  To embellish with flowers; to adorn with imitated flowers; as, flowered silk. 

FLOWERAGE:  State of flowers; flowers, collectively or in general. Tennyson.  FLOWER-DE-LUCE Flow"er-de-luce", n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. fleur-de-lis.] (Bot.)  A genus of perennial herbs (Iris) with swordlike leaves and large three-petaled flowers often of very gay colors, but probably white in the plant first chosen for the royal French emblem.  Note: There are nearly one hundred species, natives of the north temperate zone. Some of the best known are Iris Germanica, I. Florentina, I. Persica, I. sambucina, and the American I. versicolor, I. prismatica, etc. 

FLOWERER:  A plant which flowers or blossoms. Many hybrids are profuse and persistent flowerers. Darwin. 

FLOWERET:  A small flower; a floret. Shak.  FLOWER-FENCE Flow"er-fence`, n. (Bot.)  A tropical leguminous bush (Poinciana, or Cæsalpinia, pulcherrima) with prickly branches, and showy yellow or red flowers; -- so named from its having been sometimes used for hedges in the West Indies. Baird. 

FLOWERFUL:  Abounding with flowers. Craig.  FLOWER-GENTLE Flow"er-gen`tle, n. (Bot.)  A species of amaranth (Amarantus melancholicus). 

FLOWERINESS:  The state of being flowery. 

FLOWERING:  Having conspicuous flowers; -- used as an epithet with many names of plants; as, flowering ash; flowering dogwood; flowering almond, etc. Flowering fern, a genus of showy ferns (Osmunda), with conspicuous bivalvular sporangia. They usually grow in wet places.  -- Flowering plants, plants which have stamens and pistils, and produce true seeds; phenogamous plants; -- distinguished from flowerless plants.  -- Flowering rush, a European rushlike plant (Butomus umbellatus), with an umbel of rosy blossoms. 

FLOWERLESS:  Having no flowers. Flowerless plants, plants which have no true flowers, and produce no seeds; cryptigamous plants. 

FLOWERLESSNESS:  State of being without flowers. 

FLOWERPOT:  A vessel, commonly or earthenware, for earth in which plants are grown.  FLOWER STATE Flow"er State.    Florida; -- a nickname, alluding to sense of L. floridus, from florida flowery. See Florid. 

FLOWERY:  Dressed with garlands of flowers. [Poetic & Rare] Milton. 

FLOWING:  That flows or for flowing (in various sense of the verb); gliding along smoothly; copious. Flowing battery (Elec.), a battery which is kept constant by the flowing of the exciting liquid through the cell or cells. Knight.  -- Flowing furnace, a furnace from which molten metal, can be drawn, as through a tap hole; a foundry cupola.  -- Flowing sheet (Naut.), a sheet when eased off, or loosened to the wind, as when the wind is abaft the beam. Totten. 

FLOWING:  a. & n. from Flow, v. i. & t. 

FLOWINGLY:  In a flowing manner. 

FLOWINGNESS:  Flowing tendency or quality; fluency. [R.] W. Nichols. 

FLOWK:  See 1st Fluke. 

FLOWN:  p. p. of Fly; -- often used with the auxiliary verb to be; as, the birds are flown. 

FLOWN:  Flushed, inflated.  Note: [Supposed by some to be a mistake for blown or swoln.] Pope. Then wander forth the sons Of Belial, flown with insolence and wine. Milton.  FLOXED SILK Floxed" silk`.  See Floss silk, under Floss. 

FLOYTE:  A variant of Flute. [Obs.] 

FLUATE:  A fluoride. [Obs.] 

FLUAVIL:  A hydrocarbon extracted from gutta-percha, as a yellow, resinous substance; -- called also fluanil. 

FLUCAN:  Soft clayey matter in the vein, or surrounding it. [Written also flookan, flukan, and fluccan.] 

FLUCTIFEROUS:  Tending to produce waves. Blount. 

FLUCTISONOUS:  Sounding like waves. 

FLUCTUABILITY:  The capacity or ability to fluctuate. [R.] H. Walpole. 

FLUCTUANT:  showing undulation or fluctuation; as, a fluctuant tumor.  2. Floating on the waves. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FLUCTUATE:  To cause to move as a wave; to put in motion. [R.] And fluctuate all the still perfume. Tennyson. 

FLUCTUATION:  The motion or undulation of a fluid collected in a natural or artifical cavity, which is felt when it is subjected to pressure or percussion. Dunglison. 

FLUE:  An inclosed passage way for establishing and directing a current of air, gases, etc.; an air passage; esp.: (a) A compartment or division of a chimney for conveying flame and smoke to the outer air. (b) A passage way for conducting a current of fresh, foul, or heated air from one place to another. (c) (Steam Boiler) A pipe or passage for conveying flame and hot gases through surrounding water in a boiler; -- distinguished from a tube which holds water and is surrounded by fire. Small flues are called fire tubes or simply tubes. Flue boiler. See under Boiler.  -- Flue bridge, the separating low wall between the flues and the laboratory of a reverberatory furnace.  -- Flue plate (Steam Boiler), a plate to which the ends of the flues are fastened; -- called also flue sheet, tube sheet, and tube plate.  -- Flue surface (Steam Boiler), the aggregate surface of flues exposed to flame or the hot gases. 

FLUE:  Light down, such as rises from cotton, fur, etc.; very fine lint or hair. Dickens. 

FLUENCE:  Fluency. [Obs.] Milton. 

FLUENCY:  The quality of being fluent; smoothness; readiness of utterance; volubility. The art of expressing with fluency and perspicuity. Macaulay. 

FLUENT:  A variable quantity, considered as increasing or diminishing; - - called, in the modern calculus, the function or integral. 

FLUENTLY:  In a fluent manner. 

FLUENTNESS:  The quality of being fluent.  FLUE PIPE Flue pipe. (Music)  A pipe, esp. an organ pipe, whose tone is produced by the impinging of a current of air upon an edge, or lip, causing a wave motion in the air within; a mouth pipe; -- distinguished from reed pipe. Flue pipes are either open or closed (stopped at the distant end). The flute and flageolet are open pipes; a bottle acts as a closed pipe when one blows across the neck. The organ has both open and closed flue pipes, those of metal being usually round in section, and those of wood triangular or square. 

FLUEWORK:  A general name for organ stops in which the sound is caused by wind passing through a flue or fissure and striking an edge above; -- in distinction from reedwork. 

FLUEY:  Downy; fluffy. [R.] 

FLUFF:  Nap or down; flue; soft, downy feathers. 

FLUFFY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, fluff or nap; soft and downy. "The carpets were fluffy." Thackeray. The present Barnacle . . . had a youthful aspect, and the fluffiest little whisker, perhaps, that ever was seen. Dickens. -- Fluff"i*ness, n.  FLUGEL; FLUEGEL Flü"gel, n. Etym: [G., a wing.] (Mus.)  A grand piano or a harpsichord, both being wing-shaped. 

FLUGELMAN:  Same as Fugleman. 

FLUID:  Having particles which easily move and change their relative position without a separation of the mass, and which easily yield to pressure; capable of flowing; liquid or gaseous. 

FLUID:  A fluid substance; a body whose particles move easily among themselves.  Note: Fluid is a generic term, including liquids and gases as species. Water, air, and steam are fluids. By analogy, the term is sometimes applied to electricity and magnetism, as in phrases electric fluid, magnetic fluid, though not strictly appropriate. Fluid dram, or Fluid drachm, a measure of capacity equal to one eighth of a fluid ounce.  -- Fluid ounce. (a) In the United States, a measure of capacity, in apothecaries' or wine measure, equal to one sixteenth of a pint or 29.57 cubic centimeters. This, for water, is about 1.04158 ounces avoirdupois, or 455.6 grains. (b) In England, a measure of capacity equal to the twentieth part of an imperial pint. For water, this is the weight of the avoirdupois ounce, or 437.5 grains.  -- Fluids of the body. (Physiol.) The circulating blood and lymph, the chyle, the gastric, pancreatic, and intestinal juices, the saliva, bile, urine, aqueous humor, and muscle serum are the more important fluids of the body. The tissues themselves contain a large amount of combined water, so much, that an entire human body dried in vacuo with a very moderate degree of heat gives about 66 per cent of water.  -- Burning fluid, Elastic fluid, Electric fluid, Magnetic fluid, etc. See under Burning, Elastic, etc. 

FLUIDAL:  Pertaining to a fluid, or to its flowing motion. Fluidal structure (Geol.), the structure characteristic of certain volcanic rocks in which the arrangement of the minute crystals shows the lines of flow of thew molten material before solidification; -- also called fluxion structure. 

FLUIDITY:  The quality of being fluid or capable of flowing; a liquid, aëriform. or gaseous state; -- opposed to solidity. It was this want of organization, this looseness and fluidity of the new movement, that made it penetrate through every class of society. J. R. Green. 

FLUIDIZE:  To render fluid. 

FLUIDNESS:  The state of being flluid; fluidity. 

FLUIDOUNCE:  See Fluid ounce, under Fluid. 

FLUIDRACHM:  See Fluid dram, under Fluid. Pharm. of the U. S. 

FLUKAN:  Flucan. 

FLUKE:  One of the lobes of a whale's tail, so called from the resemblance to the fluke of an anchor.  3. An instrument for cleaning out a hole drilled in stone for blasting.  4. An accidental and favorable stroke at billiards (called a scratch in the United States); hence, any accidental or unexpected advantage; as, he won by a fluke. [Cant, Eng.] A. Trollope. 

FLUKEWORM:  Same as 1st Fluke, 2. 

FLUKY:  Formed like, or having, a fluke. 

FLUME:  A stream; especially, a passage channel, or conduit for the water that drives a mill wheel; or an artifical channel of water for hydraulic or placer mining; also, a chute for conveying logs or lumber down a declivity. 

FLUMINOUS:  Pertaining to rivers; abounding in streama. 

FLUNG:  imp. & p. p. of Fling. 

FLUNK:  To fail, as on a lesson; to back out, as from an undertaking, through fear. 

FLUNK:  To fail in; to shirk, as a task or duty. [Colloq. U.S.] 

FLUNK:  A failure or backing out; specifically (College cant),  a total failure in a recitation. [U.S.] 

FLUNKYDOM:  The place or region of flunkies. C. Kingsley. 

FLUNLYISM:  The quality or characteristics of a flunky; readiness to cringe to those who are superior in wealth or position; toadyism. Thackeray.  FLUO- Flu"o- (. (Chem.)  A combining form indicating fluorine as an ingredient; as in fluosilicate, fluobenzene. 

FLUOBORATE:  A salt of fluoboric acid; a fluoboride. 

FLUOBORIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or consisting of, fluorine and boron. Fluoridic acid (Chem.), a double fluoride, consisting essentially of a solution of boron fluoride, in hydrofluoric acid. It has strong acid properties, and is the type of the borofluorides. Called also borofluoric acid. 

FLUOBORIDE:  See Borofluoride.  FLUOCERINE; FLUOCERITE Flu`o*ce"rine, Flu`o*ce"rite, n. Etym: [Fluo- + cerium.] (Min.)  A fluoride of cerium, occuring near Fahlun in Sweden. Tynosite, from Colorado, is probably the same mineral. 

FLUOHYDRIC:  See Hydrofluoric. 

FLUOPHOSPHATE:  A double salt of fluoric and phosphoric acids. 

FLUOR:  See Fluorite.  FLUOR ALBUS Flu"or albus. Etym: [L., white flow.] (Med.)  The whites; leucorrhæa. 

FLUORANTHENE:  A white crystalline hydrocarbon C 

FLUORATED:  Combined with fluorine; subjected to the action of fluoride. [R.] 

FLUORENE:  A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C13H10 having a beautiful violet fluorescence; whence its name. It occurs in the higher boiling products of coal tar, and is obtained artificially. 

FLUORESCEIN:  A yellowish red, crystalline substance, C20H12O5, produced by heating together phthalic anhydride and resorcin; -- so called, from the very brilliant yellowish green fluorescence of its alkaline solutions. It has acid properties, and its salts of the alkalies are known to the trade under the name of uranin. 

FLUORESCENCE:  That property which some transparent bodies have of producing at their surface, or within their substance, light different in color from the mass of the material, as when green crystals of fluor spar afford blue reflections. It is due not to the difference in the color of a distinct surface layer, but to the power which the substance has of modifying the light incident upon it. The light emitted by fluorescent substances is in general of lower refrangibility than the incident light. Stockes. 

FLUORESCENT:  Having the property of fluorescence. 

FLUORESCIN:  A colorless, amorphous substance which is produced by the reduction of fluoresceïn, and from which the latter may be formed by oxidation. 

FLUORIC:  Pertaining to, obtained from, or containing, fluorine. 

FLUORIDE:  A binary compound of fluorine with another element or radical. Calcium fluoride (Min.), fluorite, CaF2. See Fluorite. 

FLUORINE:  A non-metallic, gaseous element, strongly acid or negative, or associated with chlorine, bromine, and iodine, in the halogen group of which it is the first member. It always occurs combined, is very active chemically, and possesses such an avidity for most elements, and silicon especially, that it can neither be prepared nor kept in glass vessels. If set free it immediately attacks the containing material, so that it was not isolated until 1886. It is a pungent, corrosive, colorless gas. Symbol F. Atomic weight 19.  Note: Fluorine unites with hydrogen to form hydrofluoric acid, which is the agent employed in etching glass. It occurs naturally, principally combined as calcium fluoride in fluorite, and as a double fluoride of aluminium and sodium in cryolite. 

FLUORITE:  Calcium fluoride, a mineral of many different colors, white, yellow, purple, green, red, etc., often very beautiful, crystallizing commonly in cubes with perfect octahedral cleavage; also massive. It is used as a flux. Some varieties are used for ornamental vessels. Also called fluor spar, or simply fluor. 

FLUOROID:  A tetrahexahedron; -- so called because it is a common form of fluorite. 

FLUOROSCOPE:  An instrument for observing or exhibiting fluorescence. 

FLUOROSCOPY:  Examination of an object, as the human body, by exposing it to the X rays and observing the shadow cast upon a fluorescent screen; cryptoscopy. 

FLUOROUS:  Pertaining to fluor.  FLUOR SPAR Flu"or spar`. (Min.)  See Fluorite. 

FLUOSILICATE:  A double fluoride of silicon and some other (usually basic) element or radical, regarded as a salt of fluosilicic acid; -- called also silicofluoride. 

FLUOSILICIC:  Composed of, or derived from, silicon and fluorine. Fluosilicic acid, a double fluoride of hydrogen and silicon, H2F6Si, obtained in solution in water as a sour fuming liquid, and regarded as the type of the fluosilicates; -- called also silicofluoric acid, and hydrofluosilicic acid. 

FLURRIED:  Agitated; excited.  -- Flur"ried*ly adv. 

FLURRY:  To put in a state of agitation; to excite or alarm. H. Swinburne. 

FLURT:  A flirt. [Obs.] Quarles. 

FLUSH:  A hand of cards of the same suit. 

FLUSH:  Unbroken or even in surface; on a level with the adjacent surface; forming a continuous surface; as, a flush panel; a flush joint.  4. (Card Playing)  Consisting of cards of one suit. Flush bolt. (a) A screw bolt whose head is countersunk, so as to be flush with a surface. (b) A sliding bolt let into the face or edge of a door, so as to be flush therewith.  -- Flush deck. (Naut.) See under Deck, n., 1.  -- Flush tank, a water tank which can be emptied rapidly for flushing drainpipes, etc. 

FLUSH:  So as to be level or even. 

FLUSHBOARD:  Same as Flashboard. 

FLUSHER:  The red-backed shrike. See Flasher. 

FLUSHING:  A surface formed of floating threads. 

FLUSHINGLY:  In a flushing manner. 

FLUSHNESS:  The state of being flush; abundance. 

FLUSTER:  To make hot and rosy, as with drinking; to heat; hence, to throw into agitation and confusion; to confuse; to muddle. His habit or flustering himself daily with claret. Macaulay. 

FLUSTER:  To be in a heat or bustle; to be agitated and confused. The flstering, vainglorious Greeks. South. 

FLUSTER:  Heat or glow, as from drinking; agitation mingled with confusion; disorder. 

FLUSTERATION:  The act of flustering, or the state of being flustered; fluster. [Colloq.] 

FLUSTRATE:  To fluster. [Colloq.] Spectator. 

FLUSTRATION:  The act of flustrating; confusion; flurry. [Colloq.] Richardson. 

FLUTE:  A channel of curved section; -- usually applied to one of a vertical series of such channels used to decorate columns and pilasters in classical architecture. See Illust. under Base, n.  3. A similar channel or groove made in wood or other material, esp. in plaited cloth, as in a lady's ruffle.  4. A long French breakfast roll. Simonds.  5. A stop in an organ, having a flutelike sound. Flute bit, a boring tool for piercing ebony, rosewood, and other hard woods.  -- Flute pipe, an organ pipe having a sharp lip or wind-cutter which imparts vibrations to Knight. 

FLUTE:  A kindof flyboat; a storeship. Armed en flûte ( (Nav.), partially armed. 

FLUTE:  To play on, or as on, a flute; to make a flutelike sound. 

FLUTE:  A beak flute, an older form of the flute, played with a mouthpiece resembling a beak, and held like a flageolet. 

FLUTEMOUTH:  A fish of the genus Aulostoma, having a much elongated tubular snout. 

FLUTING:  Decoration by means of flutes or channels; a flute, or flutes collectively; as, the fluting of a column or pilaster; the fluting of a lady's ruffle. Fluting iron, a laundry iron for fluting ruffles; -- called also Italian iron, or gaufering iron. Knight.  -- Fluting lathe, a machine for forming spiral flutes, as on balusters, table legs, etc. 

FLUTIST:  A performer on the flute; a flautist. Busby.  2. To move with quick vibrations or undulations; as, a sail flutters in the wind; a fluttering fan.  3. To move about briskly, irregularly, or with great bustle and show, without much result. No rag, no scrap, of all the beau, or wit, That once so fluttered, and that once so writ. Pope.  4. To be in agitation; to move irregularly; to flucttuate; to be uncertainty. Long we fluttered on the wings of doubtful success. Howell. His thoughts are very fluttering and wandering. I. Watts. 

FLUTTERER:  One who, or that which, flutters. 

FLUTTERINGLY:  In a fluttering manner. 

FLUTY:  Soft and clear in tone, like a flute. 

FLUVIAL:  Belonging to rivers; growing or living in streams or ponds; as, a fluvial plant. 

FLUVIALIST:  One who exlpains geological phenomena by the action of streams. [R.] 

FLUVIATIC:  Belonging to rivers or streams; fluviatile. Johnson. 

FLUVIATILE:  Belonging to rivers or streams; existing in or about rivers; produced by river action; fluvial; as, fluviatile starta, plants. Lyell. 

FLUVIOGRAPH:  An instrument for measuring and recording automatically the rise and fall of a river.  FLUVIO-MARINE Flu`vi*o-ma*rine", a. Etym: [L. fluvius river + E. marine.] (Geol.)  Formed by the joint action of a river and the sea, as deposits at the mouths of rivers. 

FLUVIOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the height of water in a river; a river gauge. 

FLUX:  Any substance or mixture used to promote the fusion of metals or minerals, as alkalies, borax, lime, fluorite.  Note: White flux is the residuum of the combustion of a mixture of equal parts of niter and tartar. It consists chiefly of the carbonate of potassium, and is white.- Black flux is the ressiduum of the combustion of one part of niter and two of tartar, and consists essentially of a mixture of potassium carbonate and charcoal.  5. (Med.) (a) A fluid discharge from the bowels or other part; especially, an excessive and morbid discharge; as, the bloody flux or dysentery. See Bloody flux. (b) The matter thus discharged.  6. (Physics)  The quantity of a fluid that crosses a unit area of a given surface in a unit of time. 

FLUX:  Flowing; unstable; inconstant; variable. The flux nature of all things here. Barrow. 

FLUX:  To cause a discharge from; to purge. 

FLUXATION:  The act of fluxing. 

FLUXIBILITY:  The quality of being fluxible. Hammond. 

FLUXIBLE:  Capable of being melted or fused, as a mineral. Holland.  -- Flux"i*ble*ness, n. 

FLUXILE:  Fluxible. [R.] 

FLUXILITY:  State of being fluxible.[Obs.] 

FLUXION:  The act of flowing. Cotgrave.  2. The matter that flows. Wiseman.  3. Fusion; the running of metals into a fluid state.  4. (Med.)  An unnatural or excessive flow of blood or fluid toward any organ; a determination.  5. A constantly varying indication. Less to be counted than the fluxions of sun dials. De Quincey.  6. (Math.) (a) The infinitely small increase or decrease of a variable or flowing quantity in a certain infinitely small and constant period of time; the rate of variation of a fluent; an incerement; a differential. (b) pl.  A method of analysis developed by Newton, and based on the conception of all magnitudes as generated by motion, and involving in their changes the notion of velocity or rate of change. Its results are the same as those of the differential and integral calculus, from which it differs little except in notation and logical method. 

FLUXIONAL:  Pertaining to, or having the nature of, fluxion or fluxions; variable; inconstant. The merely human,the temporary and fluxional. Coleridge. Fluxional structure (Geol.), fluidal structure. 

FLUXIONARY:  Pertaining to, or caused by, an increased flow of blood to a part; congestive; as, a fluxionary hemorrhage. 

FLUXIONIST:  One skilled in fluxions. Berkeley. 

FLUXIONS:  See Fluxion, 6(b). 

FLUXIVE:  Flowing; also, wanting solidity. B. Jonson. 

FLY:  That part of a compass on which the points are marked; the compass card. Totten.  9. (Mech.) (a) Two or more vanes set on a revolving axis, to act as a fanner, or to equalize or impede the motion of machinery by the resistance of the air, as in the striking part of a clock. (b) A heavy wheel, or cross arms with weights at the ends on a revolving axis, to regulate or equalize the motion of machinery by means of its inertia, where the power communicated, or the resistance to be overcome, is variable, as in the steam engine or the coining press. See Fly wheel (below).  10. (Knitting Machine)  The piece hinged to the needle, which holds the engaged loop in position while the needle is penetrating another loop; a latch. Knight.  11. The pair of arms revolving around the bobbin, in a spinning wheel or spinning frame, to twist the yarn.  12. (Weaving)  A shuttle driven through the shed by a blow or jerk. Knight.  13. (a) Formerly, the person who took the printed sheets from the press. (b) A vibrating frame with fingers, attached to a power to a power printing press for doing the same work.  14. The outer canvas of a tent with double top, usually drawn over the ridgepole, but so extended as to touch the roof of the tent at no other place.  15. One of the upper screens of a stage in a theater.  16. The fore flap of a bootee; also, a lap on trousers, overcoats, etc., to conceal a row of buttons.  17. (Baseball)  A batted ball that flies to a considerable distance, usually high in the air; also, the flight of a ball so struck; as, it was caught on the fly. Black fly, Cheese fly, Dragon fly, etc. See under Black, Cheese, etc.  -- Fly agaric (Bot.), a mushroom (Agaricus muscarius), having a narcotic juice which, in sufficient quantities, is poisonous.  -- Fly block (Naut.), a pulley whose position shifts to suit the working of the tackle with which it is connected; -- used in the hoisting tackle of yards.  -- Fly board (Printing Press), the board on which printed sheets are deposited by the fly.  -- Fly book, a case in the form of a book for anglers' flies. Kingsley.  -- Fly cap, a cap with wings, formerly worn by women.  -- Fly drill, a drill having a reciprocating motion controlled by a fly wheel, the driving power being applied by the hand through a cord winding in reverse directions upon the spindle as it rotates backward and forward. Knight.  -- Fly fishing, the act or art of angling with a bait of natural or artificial flies. Walton.  -- Fly flap, an implement for killing flies.  -- Fly governor, a governor for regulating the speed of an engine, etc., by the resistance of vanes revolving in the air.  -- Fly honeysuckle (Bot.), a plant of the honeysuckle genus (Lonicera), having a bushy stem and the flowers in pairs, as L. ciliata and L. Xylosteum.  -- Fly hook, a fishhook supplied with an artificial fly.  -- Fly leaf, an unprinted leaf at the beginning or end of a book, circular, programme, etc.  -- Fly maggot, a maggot bred from the egg of a fly. Ray.  -- Fly net, a screen to exclude insects.  -- Fly nut (Mach.), a nut with wings; a thumb nut; a finger nut.  -- Fly orchis (Bot.), a plant (Ophrys muscifera), whose flowers resemble flies.  -- Fly paper, poisoned or sticky paper for killing flies that feed upon or are entangled by it.  -- Fly powder, an arsenical powder used to poison flies.  -- Fly press, a screw press for punching, embossing, etc., operated by hand and having a heavy fly.  -- Fly rail, a bracket which turns out to support the hinged leaf of a table.  -- Fly rod, a light fishing rod used in angling with a fly.  -- Fly sheet, a small loose advertising sheet; a handbill.  -- Fly snapper (Zoöl.), an American bird (Phainopepla nitens), allied to the chatterers and shrikes. The male is glossy blue-black; the female brownish gray.  -- Fly wheel (Mach.), a heavy wheel attached to machinery to equalize the movement (opposing any sudden acceleration by its inertia and any retardation by its momentum), and to accumulate or give out energy for a variable or intermitting resistance. See Fly, n., 9.  -- On the fly (Baseball), still in the air; -- said of a batted ball caught before touching the ground.. 

FLY:  Knowing; wide awake; fully understanding another's meaning. [Slang] Dickens.  FLY AMANITA; FLY FUNGUS Fly amanita, Fly fungus. (Bot.)  A poisonous mushroom (Amanita muscaria, syn. Agaricus muscarius), having usually a bright red or yellowish cap covered with irregular white spots. It has a distinct volva at the base, generally an upper ring on the stalk, and white spores. Called also fly agaric, deadly amanita. 

FLYAWAY:  Disposed to fly away; flighty; unrestrained; light and free; -- used of both persons and things. -- n.  A flyaway person or thing. "Truth is such a flyaway." Emerson. 

FLYAWAY:  The hair grass (Agrostis scabra). So called from its light panicle, which is blown to great distances by the wind. 

FLYBANE:  A kind of catchfly of the genus Silene; also, a poisonous mushroom (Agaricus muscarius); fly agaric.  FLY-BITTEN Fly"-bit`ten, a.  Marked by, or as if by, the bite of flies. Shak. 

FLYBLOW:  To deposit eggs upon, as a flesh fly does on meat; to cause to be maggoty; hence, to taint or contaminate, as if with flyblows. Bp. Srillingfleet. 

FLYBLOW:  One of the eggs or young larvæ deposited by a flesh fly, or blowfly. 

FLYBLOWN:  Tainted or contaminated with flyblows; damaged; foul. Wherever flyblown reputations were assembled. Thackeray. 

FLYBOAT:  A large Dutch coasting vessel. Captain George Weymouth made a voyage of discovery to the northwest with two flyboats. Purchas.  2. A kind of passenger boat formerly used on canals.  FLY-CASE Fly"-case`, n. (Zoöl.)  The covering of an insect, esp. the elytra of beetles. 

FLYCATCHER:  One of numerous species of birds that feed upon insects, which they take on the wing.  Note: The true flycatchers of the Old World are Oscines, and belong to the family Muscicapidæ, as the spotted flycatcher (Muscicapa grisola). The American flycatchers, or tyrant flycatchers, are Clamatores, and belong to the family Tyrannidæ, as the kingbird, pewee, crested flycatcher (Myiarchus crinitus), and the vermilion flycatcher or churinche (Pyrocephalus rubineus). Certain American flycatching warblers of the family Sylvicolidæ are also called flycatchers, as the Canadian flycatcher (Sylvania Canadensis), and the hooded flycatcher (S. mitrata). See Tyrant flycatcher.  FLY-CATCHING Fly"-catch`ing, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the habit of catching insects on the wing. 

FLYER:  One in a flight of steps which are parallel to each other(as in ordinary stairs), as distinguished from a winder.  5. The pair of arms attached to the spindle of a spinning frame, over which the thread passes to the bobbin; -- so called from their swift revolution. See Fly, n., 11.  6. The fan wheel that rotates the cap of a windmill as the wind veers. Internat. Cyc.  7. (Stock Jobbing)  A small operation not involving considerable part of one's capital, or not in the line of one's ordinary business; a venture. [Cant] Bartlett. 

FLYFISH:  A California scorpænoid fish (Sebastichthys rhodochloris), having brilliant colors.  FLY-FISH Fly"-fish, v. i.  To angle, using flies for bait. Walton. 

FLYING:  Moving in the air with, or as with, wings; moving lightly or rapidly; intended for rapid movement.  Flying army (Mil.) a body of cavalry and infantry, kept in motion, to cover its own garrisons and to keep the enemy in continual alarm. Farrow. --Flying artillery (Mil.), artillery trained to rapid evolutions, -- the men being either mounted or trained to spring upon the guns and caissons when they change position.  -- Flying bridge, Flying camp. See under Bridge, and Camp.  -- Flying buttress (Arch.), a contrivance for taking up the thrust of a roof or vault which can not be supported by ordinary buttresses. It consists of a straight bar of masonry, usually sloping, carried on an arch, and a solid pier or buttress sufficient to receive the thrust. The word is generally applied only to the straight bar with supporting arch.  -- Flying colors, flags unfurled and waving in the air; hence: To come off with flying colors, to be victorious; to succeed thoroughly in an undertaking.  -- Flying doe (Zoöl.), a young female kangaroo.  -- Flying dragon. (a) (Zoöl.) See Dragon, 6. (b) A meteor. See under Dragon.  -- Flying Dutchman. (a) A fabled Dutch mariner condemned for his crimes to sail the seas till the day of judgment. (b) A spectral ship.  -- Flying fish. (Zoöl.) See Flying fish, in the Vocabulary.  -- Flying fox (Zoöl.), the colugo.  -- Flying frog (Zoöl.), an East Indian tree frog of the genus Rhacophorus, having very large and broadly webbed feet, which serve as parachutes, and enable it to make very long leaps.  -- Flying gurnard (Zoöl.), a species of gurnard of the genus Cephalacanthus or Dactylopterus, with very large pectoral fins, said to be able to fly like the flying fish, but not for so great a distance.  Note: Three species are known; that of the Atlantic is Cephalacanthus volitans.  -- Flying jib (Naut.), a sail extended outside of the standing jib, on the flying-jib boom.  -- Flying-jib boom (Naut.), an extension of the jib boom.  -- Flying kites (Naut.), light sails carried only in fine weather.  -- Flying lemur. (Zoöl.) See Colugo.  -- Flying level (Civil Engin.), a reconnoissance level over the course of a projected road, canal, etc.  -- Flying lizard. (Zoöl.) See Dragon, n, 6.  -- Flying machine, an apparatus for navigating the air; a form of balloon.  -- Flying mouse (Zoöl.), the opossum mouse (Acrobates pygmæus), of Australia.  Note: It has lateral folds of skin, like the flying squirrels.  -- Flying party (Mil.), a body of soldiers detailed to hover about an enemy.  -- Flying phalanger (Zoöl.), one of several species of small marsuupials of the genera Petaurus and Belideus, of Australia and New Guinea, having lateral folds like those of the flying squirrels. The sugar squirrel (B. sciureus), and the ariel (B. ariel), are the best known; -- called also squirrel petaurus and flying squirrel. See Sugar squirrel.  -- Flying pinion, the fly of a clock.  -- Flying sap (Mil.), the rapid construction of trenches (when the enemy's fire of case shot precludes the method of simple trenching), by means of gabions placed in juxtaposition and filled with earth.  -- Flying shot, a shot fired at a moving object, as a bird on the wing.  -- Flying spider. (Zoöl.) See Ballooning spider.  -- Flying squid (Zoöl.), an oceanic squid (Ommastrephes, or Sthenoteuthis, Bartramii), abundant in the Gulf Stream, which is able to leap out of the water with such force that it often falls on the deck of a vessel.  -- Flying squirrel (Zoöl.) See Flying squirrel, in the Vocabulary.  -- Flying start, a start in a sailing race in which the signal is given while the vessels are under way.  -- Flying torch (Mil.), a torch attached to a long staff and used for signaling at night.  FLYING BOAT Flying boat.  A compact form of hydro-aëroplane having one central body, or hull.  FLYING FISH Fly"ing fish`. (Zoöl.)  A fish which is able to leap from the water, and fly a considerable distance by means of its large and long pectoral fins. These fishes belong to several species of the genus Exocoetus, and are found in the warmer parts of all the oceans.  FLYING SQUIRREL Fly"ing squir"rel ( or ). (Zoöl.)  One of a group of squirrels, of the genera Pteromus and Sciuropterus, having parachute-like folds of skin extending from the fore to the hind legs, which enable them to make very long leaps.  Note: The species of Pteromys are large, with bushy tails, and inhabit southern Asia and the East Indies; those of Sciuropterus are smaller, with flat tails, and inhabit the northern parts of Europe, Asia, and America. The American species (Sciuropterus volucella) is also called Assapan. The Australian flying squrrels, or flying phalangers, are marsupials. See Flying phalanger (above). 

FLYMAN:  The driver of a fly, or light public carriage. 

FLYSCH:  A name given to the series of sandstones and schists overlying the true nummulitic formation in the Alps, and included in the Eocene Tertiary. 

FLYSPECK:  A speck or stain made by the excrement of a fly; hence, any insignificant dot. 

FLYSPECK:  To soil with flyspecks. 

FLYTRAP:  . A trap for catching flies.  2. (Bot.)  A plant (Dionæa muscipula), called also Venus's flytrap, the leaves of which are fringed with stiff bristles, and fold together when certain hairs on their upper surface are touched, thus seizing insects that light on them. The insects so caught are afterwards digested by a secretion from the upper surface of the leaves. 

FNESE:  To breathe heavily; to snort. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FO:  The Chinese name of Buddha. 

FOAL:  The young of any animal of the Horse family (Equidæ); a colt; a filly. Foal teeth (Zoöl.), the first set of teeth of a horse.  -- In foal, With foal, being with young; pregnant; -- said of a mare or she ass. 

FOAL:  To bring forth (a colt); -- said of a mare or a she ass. 

FOAL:  To bring forth young, as an animal of the horse kind. 

FOALFOOT:  (Bot.) See Coltsfoot. 

FOAM:  The white substance, consisting of an aggregation of bubbles, which is formed on the surface of liquids,or in the mouth of an animal, by violent agitation or fermentation; froth; spume; scum; as, the foam of the sea. Foam cock, in steam boilers, a cock at the water level, to blow off impurities. 

FOAM:  To cause to foam; as,to foam the goblet; also (with out), to throw out with rage or violence, as foam. "Foaming out their own shame." Jude 13. 

FOAMINGLY:  With foam; frothily. 

FOAMLESS:  Having no foam. 

FOAMY:  Covered with foam; frothy; spumy. Behold how high the foamy billows ride! Dryden. 

FOB:  A little pocket for a watch. Fob chain, a short watch chain worn a watch carried in the fob. 

FOCAL:  Belonging to,or concerning, a focus; as, a focal point. Focal distance, or length,of a lens or mirror (Opt.), the distance of the focus from the surface of the lens or mirror, or more exactly, in the case of a lens, from its optical center. --Focal distance of a telescope, the distance of the image of an object from the object glass. 

FOCALIZATION:  The act of focalizing or bringing to a focus, or the state of being focalized. 

FOCALIZE:  To bring to a focus; to focus; to concentrate. Light is focalized in the eye, sound in the ear. De Quincey. 

FOCILLATE:  To nourish. [Obs.] Blount. 

FOCILLATION:  Comfort; support. [Obs.] 

FOCIMETER:  (Photog.) An assisting instrument for focusing an object in or before a camera. Knight. 

FOCUS:  A point in which the rays of light meet, after being reflected or refrcted, and at which the image is formed; as, the focus of a lens or mirror.  2. (Geom.)  A point so related to a conic section and certain straight line called the directrix that the ratio of the distace between any point of the curve and the focus to the distance of the same point from the directrix is constant.  Note: Thus, in the ellipse FGHKLM, A is the focus and CD the directrix, when the ratios FA:FE, GA:GD, MA:MC, etc., are all equal. So in the hyperbola, A is the focus and CD the directrix when the ratio HA:HK is constant for all points of the curve; and in the parabola, A is the focus and CD the directrix when the ratio BA:BC is constant. In the ellipse this ratio is less than unity, in the parabola equal to unity, and in the hyperbola greater than unity. The ellipse and hyperbola have each two foci, and two corresponding directrixes, and the parabola has one focus and one directrix. In the ellipse the sum of the two lines from any point of the curve to the two foci is constant; that is: AG+GB=AH+HB; and in the hyperbola the difference of the corresponding lines is constant. The diameter which passes through the foci of the ellipse is the major axis. The diameter which being produced passes through the foci of the hyperbola is the transverse axis. The middle point of the major or the transverse axis is the center of the curve. Certain other curves, as the lemniscate and the Cartesian ovals, have points called foci, possessing properties similar to those of the foci of conic sections. In an ellipse, rays of light coming from one focus, and reflected from the curve, proceed in lines directed toward the other; in an hyperbola, in lines directed from the other; in a parabola, rays from the focus, after reflection at the curve, proceed in lines parallel to the axis. Thus rays from A in the ellipse are reflected to B; rays from A in the hyperbola are reflected toward L and M away from B.  3. A central point; a point of concentration. Aplanatic focus. (Opt.) See under Aplanatic.  -- Conjugate focus (Opt.), the focus for rays which have a sensible divergence, as from a near object; -- so called because the positions of the object and its image are interchangeable.  -- Focus tube (Phys.), a vacuum tube for Roentgen rays in which the cathode rays are focused upon the anticathode, for intensifying the effect.  -- Principal, or Solar, focus (Opt.), the focus for parallel rays. 

FOCUS:  To bring to a focus; to focalize; as, to focus a camera. R. Hunt. 

FODDER:  A weight by which lead and some other metals were formerly sold, in England, varying from 19 [Obs.] 

FODDER:  That which is fed out to cattle horses, and sheep, as hay, cornstalks, vegetables, etc. 

FODDER:  To feed, as cattle, with dry food or cut grass, etc.;to furnish with hay, straw, oats, etc. 

FODDERER:  One who fodders cattle. 

FODIENT:  Fitted for, or pertaining to, digging. 

FODIENT:  One of the Fodientia. 

FODIENTIA:  A group of African edentates including the aard-vark. 

FOE:  See Fiend, and cf. Feud a quarrel.  1. One who entertains personal enmity, hatred, grudge, or malice, against another; an enemy. A man's foes shall be they of his own household. Matt. x. 36  2. An enemy in war; a hostile army.  3. One who opposes on principle; an opponent; an adversary; an ill- wisher; as, a foe to religion. A foe to received doctrines. I. Watts 

FOE:  To treat as an enemy. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FOEHOOD:  Enmity. Br. Bedell. 

FOEMAN:  An enemy in war. And the stern joy which warriors feel In foemen worthy of their steel. Sir W. Scott 

FOETAL:  Same as Fetal. 

FOETATION:  Same as Fetation. 

FOETICIDE:  Same as Feticide. 

FOETOR:  Same as Fetor. 

FOETUS:  Same as Fetus. 

FOG:  (Agric.) To pasture cattle on the fog, or aftergrass, of; to eat off the fog from. 

FOG:  To practice in a small or mean way; to pettifog. [Obs.] Where wouldst thou fog to get a fee Dryden. 

FOG:  To envelop, as with fog; to befog; to overcast; to darken; to obscure. 

FOG:  To show indistinctly or become indistinct, as the picture on a negative sometimes does in the process of development.  FOG BELT Fog belt.  A region of the ocean where fogs are of marked frequency, as near the coast of Newfoundland. 

FOGBOW:  A nebulous arch, or bow, of white or yellowish light sometimes seen in fog, etc. 

FOGE:  The Cornish name for a forge used for smelting tin. Raymond 

FOGEY:  See Fogy. 

FOGGAGE:  See 1st Fog. 

FOGGER:  One who fogs; a pettifogger. [Obs.] A beggarly fogger. Terence in English(1614) 

FOGGILY:  In a foggy manner; obscurely. Johnson. 

FOGGINESS:  The state of being foggy. Johnson. 

FOGIE:  See Fogy. 

FOGLESS:  Without fog; clear. Kane. 

FOGY:  A dull old fellow; a person behind the times, over- conservative, or slow; -- usually preceded by old. [Written also fogie and fogey.] [Colloq.] Notorious old bore; regular old fogy. Thackeray.  Note: The word is said to be connected with the German vogt, a guard or protector. By others it is regareded as a diminutive of folk (cf. D. volkje). It is defined by Jamieson, in his Scottish Dictionary, as "an invalid or garrison soldier," and is applied to the old soldiers of the Royal Hospital at Dublin, which is called the Fogies' Hospital. In the fixed habits of such persons we see the origin of the present use of the term. Sir F. Head. 

FOGYISM:  The principles and conduct of a fogy. [Colloq.] 

FOH:  An exclamation of abhorrence or contempt; poh; fle. Shak. 

FOHIST:  A Buddhist priest. See Fo. 

FOIBLE:  Weak; feeble. [Obs.] Lord Herbert. 

FOIL:  To defile; to soil. [Obs.] 

FOIL:  A thin leaf of sheet copper silvered and burnished, and afterwards coated with transparent colors mixed with isinglass; -- employed by jewelers to give color or brilliancy to pastes and inferior stones. Ure.  3. Anything that serves by contrast of color or quality to adorn or set off another thing to advantage. As she a black silk cap on him began To set, for foil of his milk- white to serve. Sir P. Sidney. Hector has a foil to set him off. Broome.  4. A thin coat of tin, with quicksilver, laid on the back of a looking-glass, to cause reflection.  5. (Arch.)  The space between the cusps in Gothic architecture; a rounded or leaflike ornament, in windows, niches, etc. A group of foils is called trefoil, quatrefoil, quinquefoil, etc., according to the number of arcs of which it is composed. Foil stone, an imitation of a jewel or precious stone. 

FOILABLE:  Capable of being foiled. 

FOILER:  One who foils or frustrates. Johnson. 

FOILING:  A foil. Simmonds. 

FOILING:  The track of game (as deer) in the grass. 

FOIN:  The beech marten (Mustela foina). See Marten.  2. A kind of fur, black at the top on a whitish ground, taken from the ferret or weasel of the same name.[Obs.] He came to the stake in a fair black gown furred and faced with foins. Fuller. 

FOIN:  To thrust with a sword or spear; to lunge. [Obs.] He stroke, he soused, he foynd, he hewed, he lashed. Spenser. They lash, they foin, they pass, they strive to bore Their corselets, and the thinnest parts explore. Dryden. 

FOIN:  To prick; to stng. [Obs.] Huloet. 

FOIN:  A pass in fencing; a lunge. [Obs.] Shak. 

FOINERY:  Thrusting with the foil; fencing with the point, as distinguished from broadsword play. [Obs.] Marston. 

FOININGLY:  With a push or thrust. [Obs.] 

FOISON:  Rich harvest; plenty; abundance. [Archaic] Lowell. That from the seedness the bare fallow brings To teeming foison. Shak. 

FOIST:  A light and fast-sailing ship. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

FOIST:  To insert surreptitiously, wrongfully, or without warrant; to interpolate; to pass off (something spurious or counterfeit) as genuine, true, or worthy; -- usually followed by in. Lest negligence or partiality might admit or fois in abuses corruption. R. Carew. When a scripture has been corrupted . . . by a supposititious foisting of some words in. South. 

FOISTER:  One who foists something surreptitiously; a falsitier. Mir. for Mag. 

FOISTIED:  Fusty. [Obs.] 

FOISTINESS:  Fustiness; mustiness. [Obs.] 

FOISTY:  Fusty; musty. [Obs.] Johnson. 

FOLD:  To become folded, plaited, or doubled; to close over another of the same kind; to double together; as, the leaves of the door fold. 1 Kings vi. 34. 

FOLD:  To confine in a fold, as sheep. 

FOLD:  To confine sheep in a fold. [R.] The star that bids the shepherd fold. Milton. 

FOLDAGE:  See Faldage. 

FOLDER:  One who, or that which, folds; esp., a flat, knifelike instrument used for folding paper. 

FOLDEROL:  Nonsense. [Colloq.] 

FOLDING:  The keepig of sheep in inclosures on arable land, etc. Folding boat, a portable boat made by stretching canvas, etc., over jointed framework, used in campaigning, and by tourists, etc. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Folding chairFolding door, one of two or more doors filling a single and hung upon hinges. 

FOLDLESS:  Having no fold. Milman. 

FOLIACEOUS:  Belonging to, or having the texture or nature of, a leaf; having leaves intermixed with flowers; as, a foliaceous spike.  2. (Min.)  Consisting of leaves or thin laminæ; having the form of a leaf or plate; as, foliaceous spar.  3. (Zoöl.)  Leaflike in form or mode of growth; as, a foliaceous coral. 

FOLIAGE:  To adorn with foliage or the imitation of foliage; to form into the representation of leaves. [R.] Drummond. 

FOLIAGED:  Furnished with foliage; leaved; as, the variously foliaged mulberry. 

FOLIAR:  Consisting of, or pertaining to, leaves; as, foliar appendages. Foliar gap (Bot.), an opening in the fibrovascular system of a stem at the point of origin of a leaf.  -- Foliar trace (Bot.), a particular fibrovascular bundle passing down into the stem from a leaf. 

FOLIATE:  Furnished with leaves; leafy; as, a foliate stalk. Foliate curve. (Geom.) Same as Folium. 

FOLIATED:  Containing, or consisting of, foils; as, a foliated arch.  3. (Min.)  Characterized by being separable into thin plates or folia; as, graphite has a foliated structure.  4. (Geol.)  Laminated, but restricted to the variety of laminated structure found in crystalline schist, as mica schist, etc.; schistose.  5. Spread over with an amalgam of tin and quicksilver. Foliated telluium. (Min.) See Nagyagite. 

FOLIATION:  The enrichment of an opening by means of foils, arranged in trefoils, quatrefoils, etc.; also, one of the ornaments. See Tracery.  6. (Geol.)  The property, possessed by some crystalline rocks, of dividing into plates or slabs, which is due to the cleavage structure of one of the constituents, as mica or hornblende. It may sometimes include slaty structure or cleavage, though the latter is usually independent of any mineral constituent, and transverse to the bedding, it having been produced by pressure. 

FOLIATURE:  1. Foliage; leafage. [Obs.] Shuckford.  2. The state of being beaten into foil. Johnson. 

FOLIER:  Goldsmith's foil. [R.] Sprat. 

FOLIFEROUS:  Producing leaves. [Written also foliiferous.] 

FOLILY:  Foolishly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FOLIO:  The page number. The even folios are on the left-hand pages and the odd folios on the right-hand.  5. A page of a book; (Bookkeeping) a page in an account book; sometimes, two opposite pages bearing the same serial number.  6. (Law)  A leaf containing a certain number of words, hence, a certain number of words in a writing, as in England, in law proceedings 72, and in chancery, 90; in New York, 100 words. Folio post, a flat writing paper, usually 17 by 24 inches. 

FOLIO:  To put a serial number on each folio or page of (a book); to page. 

FOLIO:  Formed of sheets each folded once, making two leaves, or four pages; as, a folio volume. See Folio, n., 3. 

FOLIOLATE:  Of or pertaining to leaflets; -- used in composition; as, bi- foliolate. Gray. 

FOLIOLE:  One of the distinct parts of a compound leaf; a leaflet. 

FOLIOMORT:  See Feuillemort. 

FOLIOSE:  Having many leaves; leafy. 

FOLIOSITY:  The ponderousness or bulk of a folio; voluminousness. [R.] De Quincey. 

FOLIOUS:  Foliose. [R.] 

FOLIUM:  A curve of the third order, consisting of two infinite branches, which have a common asymptote. The curve has a double point, and a leaf-shaped loop; whence the name. Its equation is x3 + y3 = axy.  FOLK; FOLKS Folk, Folks, n. collect. & pl. Etym: [AS. folc; akin to D. volk, OS. & OHG. folk, G. volk, Icel. f, Sw. & Dan. folk, Lith. pulkas crowd, and perh. to E. follow.]  1. (Eng. Hist.)  In Anglo-Saxon times, the people of a group of townships or villages; a community; a tribe. [Obs.] The organization of each folk, as such, sprang mainly from war. J. R. Green.  2. People in general, or a separate class of people; -- generally used in the plural form, and often with a qualifying adjective; as, the old folks; poor folks. [Colloq.] In winter's tedious nights, sit by the fire With good old folks, and let them tell thee tales. Shak.  3. The persons of one's own family; as, our folks are all well. [Colloq. New Eng.] Bartlett. Folk song, one of a class of songs long popular with the common people.  -- Folk speech, the speech of the common people, as distinguished from that of the educated class. 

FOLKETHING:  The lower house of the Danish Rigsdag, or Parliament. See Legislature, below. 

FOLKLAND:  Land held in villenage, being distributed among the folk, or people, at the pleasure of the lord of the manor, and resumed at his discretion. Not being held by any assurance in writing, it was opposed to bookland or charter land, which was held by deed. Mozley & W.  FOLKLORE; FOLK LORE Folk"lore`, n., or; Folk" lore`  . Tales, legends, or superstitions long current among the people. Trench. 

FOLKMOTE:  An assembly of the people; esp. (Sax. Law),  a general assembly of the people to consider and order matters of the commonwealth; also, a local court. [Hist.] To which folkmote they all with one consent Agreed to travel. Spenser. 

FOLKMOTER:  One who takes part in a folkmote, or local court. [Obs.] Milton. 

FOLLICLE:  A simple podlike pericarp which contains several seeds and opens along the inner or ventral suture, as in the peony, larkspur and milkweed.  2. (Anat.) (a) A small cavity, tubular depression, or sac; as, a hair follicle. (b) A simple gland or glandular cavity; a crypt. (c) A small mass of adenoid tissue; as, a lymphatic follicle. 

FOLLICULAR:  Affecting the follicles; as, follicular pharyngitis. 

FOLLICULATED:  Having follicles. 

FOLLICULOUS:  Having or producing follicles. 

FOLLIFUL:  Full of folly. [Obs.] 

FOLLOW:  To go or come after; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb: To pursue; to attend; to accompany; to be a result; to imitate.  Syn.- To Follow, Succeed, Ensue. To follow (v.i.) means simply to come after; as, a crowd followed. To succeed means to come after in some regular series or succession; as, day succeeds to day, and night to night. To ensue means to follow by some established connection or principle of sequence. As wave follows wave, revolution succeeds to revolution; and nothing ensues but accumulated wretchedness. 

FOLLOWER:  1. One who follows; a pursuer; an attendant; a disciple; a dependent associate; a retainer.  2. A sweetheart; a beau. [Colloq.] A. Trollope.  3. (Steam Engine) (a) The removable flange, or cover, of a piston. See Illust. of Piston. (b) A gland. See Illust. of Stuffing box.  4. (Mach.)  The part of a machine that receives motion from another part. See Driver.  5. Among law stationers, a sheet of parchment or paper which is added to the first sheet of an indenture or other deed.  Syn.  -- Imitator; copier; disciple; adherent; partisan; dependent; attendant. 

FOLLOWING:  (In the field of a telescope) In the direction from which stars are apparently moving (in consequence of the erth's rotation); as, a small star, north following or south following. In the direction toward which stars appear to move is called preceding.  Note: The four principal directions in the field of a telescope are north, south, following, preceding.  FOLLOWING EDGE Following edge. (Aëronautics)  See Advancing-edge, above.  FOLLOWING SURFACE Following surface. (Aëronautics)  See Advancing-surface, above. 

FOLWE:  To follow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FOMALHAUT:  A star of the first magnitude, in the constellation Piscis Australis, or Southern Fish. 

FOMENTER:  One who foments; one who encourages or instigates; as, a fomenter of sedition. 

FOMES:  Any substance supposed to be capable of absorbing, retaining, and transporting contagious or infectious germs; as, woolen clothes are said to be active fomites. 

FON:  A fool; an idiot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FOND:  imp. of Find. Found. Chaucer. 

FOND:  To caress; to fondle. [Obs.] The Tyrian hugs and fonds thee on her breast. Dryden. 

FOND:  To be fond; to dote. [Obs.] Shak. 

FONDANT:  A kind of soft sweetmeat made by boiling solutions to the point of crystallization, usually molded; as, cherry fondant. 

FONDE:  To endeavor; to strive; to try. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FONDLE:  To treat or handle with tenderness or in a loving manner; to caress; as, a nurse fondles a child.  Syn.- See Caress. 

FONDLER:  One who fondles. Johnson. 

FONDLING:  The act of caressing; manifestation of tenderness. Cyrus made no . . . amorous fondling To fan her pride, or melt her guardless heart. Mickle. 

FONDON:  A large copper vessel used for hot amalgamation. 

FONDU:  Blended; passing into each other by subtle gradations; -- said of colors or of the surface or material on which the colors are laid.  FONDUE; FONDU Fon`due", n. [Also erroneously Fon`du".] [F. See Fondu; cf. Fondant.] (Cookery)  A dish made of cheese, eggs, butter, etc., melted together. 

FONDUS:  A style of printing calico, paper hangings, etc., in which the colors are in bands and graduated into each other. Ure. 

FONE:  pl. of Foe. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FONGE:  To take; to receive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FONLY:  Foolishly; fondly. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FONNE:  A fon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FONT:  A complete assortment of printing type of one size, including a due proportion of all the letters in the alphabet, large and small, points, accents, and whatever else is necessary for printing with that variety of types; a fount. 

FONTAL:  Pertaining to a font, fountain, source, or origin; original; primitive. [R.] From the fontal light of ideas only can a man draw intellectual power. Coleridge. 

FONTANEL:  An issue or artificial ulcer for the discharge of humors from the body.[Obs.] Wiseman.  2. (Anat.)  One of the membranous intervals between the incompleted angles of the parietal and neighboring bones of a fetal or young skull; -- so called because it exhibits a rhythmical pulsation.  Note: In the human fetus there are six fontanels, of which the anterior, or bregmatic, situated at the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures, is much the largest, and remains open a considerable time after birth. 

FONTANELLE:  Same as Fontanel, 2. 

FONTANGE:  A kind of tall headdress formerly worn. Addison. 

FOOD:  To supply with food. [Obs.] Baret. 

FOODFUL:  Full of food; supplying food; fruitful; fertile. "The foodful earth." Dryden. Bent by its foodful burden [the corn]. Glover. 

FOODLESS:  Without food; barren. Sandys. 

FOODY:  Eatable; fruitful. [R.] Chapman. 

FOOL:  A compound of gooseberries scalded and crushed, with cream; -- commonly called gooseberry fool. 

FOOL:  One who acts contrary to moral and religious wisdom; a wicked person. The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Ps. xiv. 1.  4. One who counterfeits folly; a professional jester or buffoon; a retainer formerly kept to make sport, dressed fantastically in motley, with ridiculous accouterments. Can they think me . . . their fool or jester Milton. April fool, Court fool, etc. See under April, Court, etc.  -- Fool's cap, a cap or hood to which bells were usually attached, formerly worn by professional jesters.  -- Fool's errand, an unreasonable, silly, profitless adventure or undertaking.  -- Fool's gold, iron or copper pyrites, resembling gold in color.  -- Fool's paradise, a name applied to a limbo (see under Limbo) popularly believed to be the region of vanity and nonsense. Hence, any foolish pleasure or condition of vain self-satistaction.  -- Fool's parsley (Bot.), an annual umbelliferous plant (Æthusa Cynapium) resembling parsley, but nauseous and poisonous.  -- To make a fool of, to render ridiculous; to outwit; to shame. [Colloq.] -- To play the fool, to act the buffoon; to act a foolish part. "I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly." 1 Sam. xxvi. 21. 

FOOL:  To play the fool; to trifle; to toy; to spend time in idle sport or mirth. Is this a time for fooling Dryden. 

FOOLAHS:  Same as Fulahs.  FOOL-BORN Fool"-born`, a.  Begotten by a fool. Shak. 

FOOLFISH:  Lucky, without judgment or contrivance. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FOOLHARDIHOOD:  The state of being foolhardy; foolhardiness. 

FOOLHARDILY:  In a foolhardy manner. 

FOOLHARDINESS:  Courage without sense or judgment; foolish rashness; recklessness. Dryden. 

FOOLHARDISE:  Foolhardiness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FOOLHARDY:  Daring without judgment; foolishly adventurous and bold. Howell.  Syn.  -- Rash; venturesome; venturous; precipitate; reckless; headlong; incautious. See Rash.  FOOL-HASTY Fool"-has`ty, a.  Foolishly hasty. [R.] 

FOOLIFY:  To make a fool of; to befool. [R.] Holland. 

FOOLISHLY:  In a foolish manner. 

FOOLISHNESS:  Foolishly liberal. [Obs.] Chaucer.  FOOL-LARGESSE Fool"-lar*gesse`, n. Etym: [See Fool-large, Largess.]  Foolish expenditure; waste. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FOOLSCAP:  A writing paper made in sheets, ordinarily 16 x 13 inches, and folded so as to make a page 13 x 8 inches. See Paper. 

FOOT:  The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., the part below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which it rests when standing, or moves. See Manus, and Pes.  2. (Zoöl.)  The muscular locomotive organ of a mollusk. It is a median organ arising from the ventral region of body, often in the form of a flat disk, as in snails. See Illust. of Buccinum.  3. That which corresponds to the foot of a man or animal; as, the foot of a table; the foot of a stocking.  4. The lowest part or base; the ground part; the bottom, as of a mountain or column; also, the last of a row or series; the end or extremity, esp. if associated with inferiority; as, the foot of a hill; the foot of the procession; the foot of a class; the foot of the bed. And now at foot Of heaven's ascent they lift their feet. Milton.  5. Fundamental principle; basis; plan; -- used only in the singular. Answer directly upon the foot of dry reason. Berkeley.  6. Recognized condition; rank; footing; -- used only in the singular. [R.] As to his being on the foot of a servant. Walpole.  7. A measure of length equivalent to twelve inches; one third of a yard. See Yard.  Note: This measure is supposed to be taken from the length of a man's foot. It differs in length in different countries. In the United States and in England it is 304.8 millimeters.  8. (Mil.)  Soldiers who march and fight on foot; the infantry, usually designated as the foot, in distinction from the cavalry. "Both horse and foot." Milton.  9. (Pros.)  A combination of syllables consisting a metrical element of a verse, the syllables being formerly distinguished by their quantity or length, but in modern poetry by the accent.  10. (Naut.)  The lower edge of a sail.  Note: Foot is often used adjectively, signifying of or pertaining to a foot or the feet, or to the base or lower part. It is also much used as the first of compounds. Foot artillery. (Mil.) (a) Artillery soldiers serving in foot. (b) Heavy artillery. Farrow.  -- Foot bank (Fort.), a raised way within a parapet.  -- Foot barracks (Mil.), barracks for infantery.  -- Foot bellows, a bellows worked by a treadle. Knight.  -- Foot company (Mil.), a company of infantry. Milton.  -- Foot gear, covering for the feet, as stocking, shoes, or boots.  -- Foot hammer (Mach.), a small tilt hammer moved by a treadle.  -- Foot iron. (a) The step of a carriage. (b) A fetter.  -- Foot jaw. (Zoöl.) See Maxilliped.  -- Foot key (Mus.), an organ pedal.  -- Foot level (Gunnery), a form of level used in giving any proposed angle of elevation to a piece of ordnance. Farrow.  -- Foot mantle, a long garment to protect the dress in riding; a riding skirt. [Obs.] -- Foot page, an errand boy; an attendant. [Obs.] -- Foot passenger, one who passes on foot, as over a road or bridge.  -- Foot pavement, a paved way for foot passengers; a footway; a trottoir.  -- Foot poet, an inferior poet; a poetaster. [R.] Dryden.  -- Foot post. (a) A letter carrier who travels on foot. (b) A mail delivery by means of such carriers.  -- Fot pound, and Foot poundal. (Mech.) See Foot pound and Foot poundal, in the Vocabulary.  -- Foot press (Mach.), a cutting, embossing, or printing press, moved by a treadle.  -- Foot race, a race run by persons on foot. Cowper.  -- Foot rail, a railroad rail, with a wide flat flange on the lower side.  -- Foot rot, an ulcer in the feet of sheep; claw sickness.  -- Foot rule, a rule or measure twelve inches long.  -- Foot screw, an adjusting screw which forms a foot, and serves to give a machine or table a level standing on an uneven place.  -- Foot secretion. (Zoöl.) See Sclerobase.  -- Foot soldier, a soldier who serves on foot.  -- Foot stick (Printing), a beveled piece of furniture placed against the foot of the page, to hold the type in place.  -- Foot stove, a small box, with an iron pan, to hold hot coals for warming the feet.  -- Foot tubercle. (Zoöl.) See Parapodium.  -- Foot valve (Steam Engine), the valve that opens to the air pump from the condenser.  -- Foot vise, a kind of vise the jaws of which are operated by a treadle.  -- Foot waling (Naut.), the inside planks or lining of a vessel over the floor timbers. Totten.  -- Foot wall (Mining), the under wall of an inclosed vein. By foot, or On foot, by walking; as, to pass a stream on foot.  -- Cubic foot. See under Cubic.  -- Foot and mouth disease, a contagious disease (Eczema epizoötica) of cattle, sheep, swine, etc., characterized by the formation of vesicles and ulcers in the mouth and about the hoofs.  -- Foot of the fine (Law), the concluding portion of an acknowledgment in court by which, formerly, the title of land was conveyed. See Fine of land, under Fine, n.; also Chirograph. (b).  -- Square foot. See under Square.  -- To be on foot, to be in motion, action, or process of execution.  -- To keep the foot (Script.), to preserve decorum. "Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God." Eccl. v. 1.  -- To put one's foot down, to take a resolute stand; to be determined. [Colloq.] -- To put the best foot foremost, to make a good appearance; to do one's best. [Colloq.] -- To set on foot, to put in motion; to originate; as, to set on foot a subscription.  -- To put, or set, one on his feet, to put one in a position to go on; to assist to start.  -- Under foot. (a) Under the feet; (Fig.) at one's mercy; as, to trample under foot. Gibbon. (b) Below par. [Obs.] "They would be forced to sell . . . far under foot." Bacon. 

FOOTBALL:  An inflated ball to be kicked in sport, usually made in India rubber, or a bladder incased in Leather. Waller.  2. The game of kicking the football by opposing parties of players between goals. Arbuthnot. 

FOOTBAND:  A band of foot soldiers. [Obs.] 

FOOTBATH:  A bath for the feet; also, a vessel used in bathing the feet. 

FOOTBOY:  A page; an attendant in livery; a lackey. Shak. 

FOOTBREADTH:  The breadth of a foot; -- used as a measure. Longfellow. Not so much as a footbreadth. Deut. ii. 5. 

FOOTBRIDGE:  A narrow bridge for foot passengers only.  FOOT CANDLE Foot candle. (Photom.)  The amount of illumination produced by a standard candle at a distance of one foot. 

FOOTCLOTH:  Formerly, a housing or caparison for a horse. Sir W. Scott. 

FOOTFALL:  A setting down of the foot; a footstep; the sound of a footstep. Shak. Seraphim, whose footfalls tinkled on the tufted floor. Poe 

FOOTFIGHT:  A conflict by persons on foot; -- distinguished from a fight on horseback. Sir P. Sidney. 

FOOTGLOVE:  A kind of stocking. [Obs.]  FOOT GUARDS Foot" Guards`, pl.  Infantry soldiers belonging to select regiments called the Guards. [Eng.] 

FOOTHALT:  A disease affecting the feet of sheep. 

FOOTHILL:  A low hill at the foot of highe 

FOOTHOLD:  A holding with the feet; firm L'Estrange. 

FOOTHOOK:  See Futtock. 

FOOTHOT:  Hastily; immediately; instantly; on the spot; hotfloot. Gower. Custance have they taken anon, foothot. Chaucer. 

FOOTING:  The thickened or sloping portion of a wall, or of an embankment at its foot. Footing course (Arch.), one of the courses of masonry at the foot of a wall, broader than the courses above.  -- To pay one's footing, to pay a fee on first doing anything, as working at a trade or in a shop. Wright.  -- Footing beam, the tie beam of a roof. 

FOOTLESS:  Having no feet. 

FOOTLICKER:  A sycophant; a fawner; a toady. Cf. Bootlick. Shak. 

FOOTLIGHT:  One of a row of lights in the front of the stage in a theater, etc., and on a level therewith. Before the footlights, upon the stage; -- hence, in the capacity of an actor. 

FOOTMAN:  A moth of the family Lithosidæ; -- so called from its livery- like colors. 

FOOTMANSHIP:  Art or skill of a footman. 

FOOTMARK:  A footprint; a track or vestige. Coleridge. 

FOOTNOTE:  A note of reference or comment at the foot of a page. 

FOOTPAD:  A highwayman or robber on foot. 

FOOTPATH:  A narrow path or way for pedestrains only; a footway. 

FOOTPLATE:  See Footboard (a).  FOOT POUND Foot" pound`. (Mech.)  A unit of energy, or work, being equal to the work done in raising one pound avoirdupois against the force of gravity the height of one foot.  FOOT POUNDAL Foot" pound`al. (Mech.)  A unit of energy or work, equal to the work done in moving a body through one foot against the force of one poundal. 

FOOTPRINT:  The impression of the foot; a trace or footmark; as, "Footprints of the Creator." 

FOOTS:  The settlings of oil, molasses, etc., at the bottom of a barrel or hogshead. Simmonds.  FOOT-SORE Foot"-sore`, a.  Having sore or tender feet, as by reason of much walking; as, foot-sore cattle. 

FOOTSTALK:  The stalk of a leaf or of flower; a petiole, pedicel, or reduncle.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The peduncle or stem by which various marine animals are attached, as certain brachiopods and goose barnacles. (b) The stem which supports which supports the eye in decapod Crustacea; eyestalk.  3. (Mach.)  The lower part of a millstone spindle. It rests in a step. Knight. 

FOOTSTALL:  The plinth or base of a pillar. 

FOOTSTONE:  The stone at the foot of a grave; -- opposed to headstone. 

FOOTSTOOL:  A low stool to support the feet of one when sitting.  FOOT TON Foot ton. (Mech.)  A unit of energy or work, being equal to the work done in raising one ton against the force of gravity through the height of one foot.  FOOT VALVE Foot valve. (Mech.)  A suction valve or check valve at the lower end of a pipe; esp., such a valve in a steam-engine condenser opening to the air pump. 

FOOTWAY:  A passage for pedestrians only. 

FOOTWORN:  Worn by, or weared in, the feet; as, a footworn path; a footworn traveler. 

FOOZLE:  To bungle; to manage awkwardly; to treat or play unskillfully; as, to foozle a stroke in golf.  She foozles all along the course. Century Mag. 

FOP:  One whose ambition it is to gain admiration by showy dress; a coxcomb; an inferior dandy.  FOP-DOODLE Fop"-doo`dle, n.  A stupid or insignaficant fellow; a fool; a simpleton. [R.] Hudibras. 

FOPLING:  A petty fop. Landor. 

FOPPISH:  Foplike; characteristic of a top in dress or manners; making an ostentatious display of gay clothing; affected in manners.  Syn.  -- Finical; spruce; dandyish. See Finical.  -- Fop"pish*ly, adv.  -- Fop"pish*ness, n.  FOR- For- (. Etym: [AS. for-; akin to D. & G. ver-, OHG. fir-, Icel. for-, Goth. fra-, cf. Skr. para- away, Gr. far, adj. Cf. Fret to rub.]  A prefix to verbs, having usually the force of a negative or privative. It often implies also loss, detriment, or destruction, and sometimes it is intensive, meaning utterly, quite thoroughly, as in forbathe. 

FOR:  In the most general sense, indicating that in consideration of, in view of, or with reference to, which anything is done or takes place.  1. Indicating the antecedent cause or occasion of an action; the motive or inducement accompanying and prompting to an act or state; the reason of anything; that on account of which a thing is or is done. With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath. Shak. How to choose dogs for scent or speed. Waller. Now, for so many glorious actions done, For peace at home, and for the public wealth, I mean to crown a bowl for Cæsar's health. Dryden. That which we, for our unworthiness, are afraid to crave, our prayer is, that God, for the worthiness of his Son, would, notwithstanding, vouchsafe to grant. Hooker.  2. Indicating the remoter and indirect object of an act; the end or final cause with reference to which anything is, acts, serves, or is done. The oak for nothing ill, The osier good for twigs, the poplar for the mill. Spenser. It was young counsel for the persons, and violent counsel for the matters. Bacon. Shall I think the worls was made for one, And men are born for kings, as beasts for men, Not for protection, but to be devoured Dryden. For he writes not for money, nor for praise. Denham.  3. Indicating that in favor of which, or in promoting which, anything is, or is done; hence, in behalf of; in favor of; on the side of; -- opposed to against. We can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth. 2 Cor. xiii. 8. It is for the general good of human society, and consequently of particular persons, to be true and just; and it is for men's health to be temperate. Tillotson. Aristotle is for poetical justice. Dennis.  4. Indicating that toward which the action of anything is directed, or the point toward which motion is made; We sailed from Peru for China and Japan. Bacon.  5. Indicating that on place of or instead of which anything acts or serves, or that to which a substitute, an equivalent, a compensation, or the like, is offered or made; instead of, or place of. And if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot. Ex. xxi. 23, 24.  6. Indicating that in the character of or as being which anything is regarded or treated; to be, or as being. We take a falling meteor for a star. Cowley. If a man can be fully assured of anything for a truth, without having examined, what is there that he may not embrace for truLocke. Most of our ingenious young men take up some cried-up English poet for their model. Dryden. But let her go for an ungrateful woman. Philips.  7. Indicating that instead of which something else controls in the performing of an action, or that in spite of which anything is done, occurs, or is; hence, equivalent to notwithstanding, in spite of; -- generally followed by all, aught, anything, etc. The writer will do what she please for all me. Spectator. God's desertion shall, for aught he knows, the next minute supervene. Dr. H. More. For anything that legally appears to the contrary, it may be a contrivance to fright us. Swift.  8. Indicating the space or time through which an action or state extends; hence, during; in or through the space or time of. For many miles about There 's scarce a bush. Shak. Since, hired for life, thy servile muse sing. prior. To guide the sun's bright chariot for a day. Garth.  9. Indicating that in prevention of which, or through fear of which, anything is done. [Obs.] We 'll have a bib, for spoiling of thy doublet. Beau. & Fl. For, or As for, so far as concerns; as regards; with reference to; -- used parenthetically or independently. See under As. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Josh. xxiv. 15. For me, my stormy voyage at an end, I to the port of death securely tend. Dryden. -- For all that, notwithstanding; in spite of.  -- For all the world, wholly; exactly. "Whose posy was, for all the world, like cutlers' poetry." Shak.  -- For as much as, or Forasmuch as, in consideration that; seeing that; since.  -- For by. See Forby, adv.  -- For ever, eternally; at all times. See Forever.  -- For me, or For all me, as far as regards me.  -- For my life, or For the life of me, if my life depended on it. [Colloq.] T. Hook.  -- For that, For the reason that, because; since. [Obs.] "For that I love your daughter." Shak.  -- For thy, or Forthy Etym: [AS. for, for this; on this account. [Obs.] "Thomalin, have no care for thy." Spenser.  -- For to, as sign of infinitive, in order to; to the end of. [Obs., except as sometimes heard in illiterate speech.] -- "What went ye out for to see" Luke vii. 25. See To, prep., 4.  -- O for, would that I had; may there be granted; -- elliptically expressing desire or prayer. "O for a muse of fire." Shak.  -- Were it not for, or If it were not for, leaving out of account; but for the presence or action of. "Moral consideration can no way move the sensible appetite, were it not for the will." Sir M. Hale. 

FOR:  One who takes, or that which is said on, the affrimative side; that which is said in favor of some one or something; -- the antithesis of against, and commonly used in connection with it. The fors and against. those in favor and those opposed; the pros and the cons; the advantages and the disadvantages. Jane Austen. 

FORAGE:  To wander or rove in search of food; to collect food, esp. forage, for horses and cattle by feeding on or stripping the country; to ravage; to feed on spoil. His most mighty father on a hill Stood smiling to behold his lion's whelp Forage in blood of French nobility. Shak. Foraging ant (Zoöl.), one of several species of ants of the genus Eciton, very abundant in tropical America, remarkable for marching in vast armies in search of food.  -- Foraging cap, a forage cap.  -- Foraging party, a party sent out after forage. 

FORAGE:  To strip of provisions; to supply with forage; as, to forage steeds. Pope. 

FORAGER:  One who forages. 

FORALITE:  A tubelike marking, occuring in sandstone and other strata. 

FORAMEN:  A small opening, perforation, or orifice; a fenestra. Foramen of Monro (Anat.), the opening from each lateral into the third ventricle of the brain.  -- Foramen of Winslow (Anat.), the opening connecting the sac of the omentum with the general cavity of the peritoneum. 

FORAMINATED:  Having small opening, or foramina. 

FORAMINIFER:  One of the foraminifera. 

FORAMINIFERA:  An extensive order of rhizopods which generally have a chambered calcareous shell formed by several united zooids. Many of them have perforated walls, whence the name. Some species are covered with sand. See Rhizophoda. 

FORAMINOUS:  Having foramina; full of holes; porous. Bacon. 

FORASMUCH:  In consideration that; seeing that; since; because that; -- followed by as. See under For, prep. 

FORAY:  A sudden or irregular incursion in border warfare; hence, any irregular incursion for war or spoils; a raid. Spenser. The huge Earl Doorm, . . . Bound on a foray, rolling eyes of prey. Tennyson. 

FORAY:  To pillage; to ravage. He might foray our lands. Sir W. Scott. 

FORAYER:  One who makes or joins in a foray. They might not choose the lowand road, For the Merse forayers were abroad. Sir W. Scott. 

FORBADE:  imp. of Forbid. 

FORBATHE:  To bathe. [Obs.] 

FORBEAR:  An ancestor; a forefather; -- usually in the plural. [Scot.] "Your forbears of old." Sir W. Scott. 

FORBEARANCE:  The act of forbearing or waiting; the exercise of patience. He soon shall findForbearance no acquittance ere day end. Milton.  2. The quality of being forbearing; indulgence toward offenders or enemies; long-suffering. Have a continent forbearance, till the speed of his rage goeShak.  Syn.  -- Abstinence; refraining; lenity; mildness. 

FORBEARANT:  Forbearing. [R.] Carlyle. 

FORBEARER:  One who forbears. Tusser. 

FORBEARING:  Disposed or accustomed to forbear; patient; long-suffering.  -- For*bear"ing*ly, adv. 

FORBID:  To utter a prohibition; to prevent; to hinder. "I did not or forbid." Milton. 

FORBIDDANCE:  The act of forbidding; prohibition; command or edict against a thing. [Obs.] ow hast thou yield to transgress The strict forbiddance. Milton. 

FORBIDDEN:  Prohibited; interdicted. I kniw no spells, use no forbidden arts. Milton. Forbidden fruit. (a) Any coveted unlawful pleasure, -- so called with reference to the forbidden fruit of the Garden of Eden. (b) (Bot.) A small variety of shaddock (Citrus decumana). The name is given in different places to several varieties of Citrus fruits. 

FORBIDDENLY:  In a forbidden or unlawful manner. Shak. 

FORBIDDER:  One who forbids. Milton. 

FORBIDDING:  Repelling approach; repulsive; raising abhorrence, aversion, or dislike; disagreeable; prohibiting or interdicting; as, a forbidding aspect; a forbidding formality; a forbidding air.  Syn.  -- Disagreeable; unpleasant; displeasing; offensive; repulsive; odious; abhorrent.  -- For*bid"ding*ly, adv.  -- For*bid"ding*ness, n. 

FORBLACK:  Very black. [Obs.] As any raven's feathers it shone forblack. Chaucer. 

FORBODEN:  p. p. of Forbid. Chaucer. 

FORBORE:  imp. of Forbear. 

FORBORNE:  p. p. of Forbear. 

FORBRUISE:  To bruise sorely or exceedingly. [Obs.] All forbrosed, both back and side. Chaucer. 

FORBY:  Near; hard by; along; past. [Obs.] To tell her if her child went ought forby. Chaucer. To the intent that ships may pass along forby all the sides of the city without let. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

FORCARVE:  To cut completely; to cut off. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORCE:  To stuff; to lard; to farce. [R.] Wit larded with malice, and malice forced with wit. Shak. 

FORCE:  A waterfall; a cascade. [Prov. Eng.] To see the falls for force of the river Kent. T. Gray. 

FORCE:  Any action between two bodies which changes, or tends to change, their relative condition as to rest or motion; or, more generally, which changes, or tends to change, any physical relation between them, whether mechanical, thermal, chemical, electrical, magnetic, or of any other kind; as, the force of gravity; cohesive force; centrifugal force. Animal force (Physiol.), muscular force or energy.  -- Catabiotic force Etym: [Gr. (Biol.), the influence exerted by living structures on adjoining cells, by which the latter are developed in harmony with the primary structures.  -- Centrifugal force, Centripetal force, Coercive force, etc. See under Centrifugal, Centripetal, etc.  -- Composition of forces, Correlation of forces, etc. See under Composition, Correlation, etc.  -- Force and arms Etym: [trans. of L. vi et armis] (Law), an expression in old indictments, signifying violence.  -- In force, or Of force, of unimpaired efficacy; valid; of full virtue; not suspended or reversed. "A testament is of force after men are dead." Heb. ix. 17.  -- Metabolic force (Physiol.), the influence which causes and controls the metabolism of the body.  -- No force, no matter of urgency or consequence; no account; hence, to do no force, to make no account of; not to heed. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- Of force, of necessity; unavoidably; imperatively. "Good reasons must, of force, give place to better." Shak.  -- Plastic force (Physiol.), the force which presumably acts in the growth and repair of the tissues.  -- Vital force (Physiol.), that force or power which is inherent in organization; that form of energy which is the cause of the vital phenomena of the body, as distinguished from the physical forces generally known.  Syn.  -- Strength; vigor; might; energy; stress; vehemence; violence; compulsion; coaction; constraint; coercion.  -- Force, Strength. Strength looks rather to power as an inward capability or energy. Thus we speak of the strength of timber, bodily strength, mental strength, strength of emotion, etc. Force, on the other hand, looks more to the outward; as, the force of gravitation, force of circumstances, force of habit, etc. We do, indeed, speak of strength of will and force of will; but even here the former may lean toward the internal tenacity of purpose, and the latter toward the outward expression of it in action. But, though the two words do in a few cases touch thus closely on each other, there is, on the whole, a marked distinction in our use of force and strength. "Force is the name given, in mechanical science, to whatever produces, or can produce, motion." Nichol. Thy tears are of no force to mollify This flinty man. Heywood. More huge in strength than wise in works he was. Spenser. Adam and first matron Eve Had ended now their orisons, and found Strength added from above, new hope to spring Out of despair. Milton. 

FORCE:  To compel (an adversary or partner) to trump a trick by leading a suit of which he has none.  9. To provide with forces; to reënforce; to strengthen by soldiers; to man; to garrison. [Obs.] Shak.  10. To allow the force of; to value; to care for. [Obs.] For me, I force not argument a straw. Shak.  Syn.  -- To compel; constrain; oblige; necessitate; coerce; drive; press; impel. 

FORCED:  Done or produced with force or great labor, or by extraordinary exertion; hurried; strained; produced by unnatural effort or pressure; as, a forced style; a forced laugh. Forced draught. See under Draught.  -- Forced march (Mil.), a march of one or more days made with all possible speed.  -- For"ced*ly, adv.  -- For"ced*ness, n. 

FORCEFUL:  Full of or processing force; exerting force; mighty.  -- Force"ful*ly, adv. Against the steed he threw His forceful spear. Dryden. 

FORCELESS:  Having little or no force; feeble. These forceless flowers like sturdy trees support me. Shak. 

FORCEMEAT:  Meat chopped fine and highly seasoned, either served up alone, or used as a stuffing. [Written also forced meat.] 

FORCEMENT:  The act of forcing; compulsion. [Obs.] It was imposed upon us by constraint; And will you count such forcement treachery J. Webster. 

FORCEPS:  The caudal forceps-shaped appendage of earwigs and some other insects. See Earwig. Dressing forceps. See under Dressing.  FORCE PUMP Force" pump`. (Mach.) (a) A pump having a solid piston, or plunger, for drawing and forcing a liquid, as water, through the valves; in distinction from a pump having a bucket, or valved piston. (b) A pump adapted for delivering water at a considerable height above the pump, or under a considerable pressure; in distinction from one which lifts the water only to the top of the pump or delivers it through a spout. See Illust. of Plunger pump, under Plunger. 

FORCIBLE:  Seemingly vigorous, but really weak or insipid. He [Prof. Ayton] would purge his book of much offensive matter, if he struck out epithets which are in the bad taste of the forcible-feeble school. N. Brit. Review. 

FORCIBLENESS:  The quality of being forcible. 

FORCIBLY:  In a forcible manner. 

FORCING:  The art of raising plants, flowers, and fruits at an earlier season than the natural one, as in a hitbed or by the use of artificial heat. Forcing bed or pit, a plant bed having an under layer of fermenting manure, the fermentation yielding bottom heat for forcing plants; a hotbed.  -- Forcing engine, a fire engine.  -- Forcing fit (Mech.), a tight fit, as of one part into a hole in another part, which makes it necessary to use considerable force in putting the two parts together.  -- Forcing house, a greenhouse for the forcing of plants, fruit trees, etc.  -- Forcing machine, a powerful press for putting together or separating two parts that are fitted tightly one into another, as for forcing a crank on a shaft, or for drawing off a car wheel from the axle.  -- Forcing pump. See Force pump (b). 

FORCIPAL:  Forked or branched like a pair of forceps; constructed so as to open and shut like a pair of forceps. Sir T. Browne.  FORCIPATE; FORCIPATED For"ci*pate, For"ci*pa`ted, a.  Like a pair of forceps; as, a forcipated mouth. 

FORCIPATION:  Torture by pinching with forceps or pinchers. Bacon. 

FORCITE:  A gelatin dynamite in which the dope is composed largely of sodium nitrate. 

FORCUT:  To cut completely; to cut off. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORD:  To pass or cross, as a river or other water, by wading; to wade through. His last section, which is no deep one, remains only to be forted. Milton. 

FORDABLE:  Capable of being forded.  -- Ford"a*ble*ness, n. 

FORDLESS:  Without a ford. A deep and fordless river. Mallock. 

FORDONE:  Undone; ruined. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORDRIVE:  To drive about; to drive here and there. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

FORDRUNKEN:  Utterly drunk; very drunk. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORDRY:  Entirely dry; withered. [Obs.] "A tree fordry." Chaucer. 

FORDWINE:  To dwindle away; to disappear. [Obs.] Rom of R. 

FORE:  Journey; way; method of proceeding. [Obs.] "Follow him and his fore." Chaucer. 

FORE:  In or towards the bows of a ship. Fore and aft (Naut.), from stem to stern; lengthwise of the vessel; -- in distinction from athwart. R. H. Dana, Jr.  -- Fore-and-aft rigged (Naut.), not rigged with square sails attached to yards, but with sails bent to gaffs or set on stays in the midship line of the vessel. See Schooner, Sloop, Cutter. 

FORE:  Advanced, as compared with something else; toward the front; being or coming first, in time, place, order, or importance; preceding; anterior; antecedent; earlier; forward; -- opposed to Ant: back or Ant: behind; as, the fore part of a garment; the fore part of the day; the fore and of a wagon. The free will of the subject is preserved, while it is directed by the fore purpose of the state. Southey.  Note: Fore is much used adjectively or in composition. Fore bay, a reservoir or canal between a mill race and a water wheel; the discharging end of a pond or mill race.  -- Fore body (Shipbuilding), the part of a ship forward of the largest cross-section, distinguisched from middle body abd after body.  -- Fore boot, a receptacle in the front of a vehicle, for stowing baggage, etc.  -- Fore bow, the pommel of a saddle. Knight.  -- Fore cabin, a cabin in the fore part of a ship, usually with inferior accommodations.  -- Fore carriage. (a) The forward part of the running gear of a four-wheeled vehicle. (b) A small carriage at the front end of a plow beam.  -- Fore course (Naut.), the lowermost sail on the foremost of a square-rigged vessel; the foresail. See Illust. under Sail.  -- Fore door. Same as Front door.  -- Fore edge, the front edge of a book or folded sheet, etc.  -- Fore elder, an ancestor. [Prov. Eng.] -- Fore end. (a) The end which precedes; the earlier, or the nearer, part; the beginning. I have . . . paid More pious debts to heaven, than in all The fore end of my time. Shak. (b) In firearms, the wooden stock under the barrel, forward of the trigger guard, or breech frame.  -- Fore girth, a girth for the fore part (of a horse, etc.); a martingale.  -- Fore hammer, a sledge hammer, working alternately, or in time, with the hand hammer.  -- Fore leg, one of the front legs of a quadruped, or multiped, or of a chair, settee, etc.  -- Fore peak (Naut.), the angle within a ship's bows; the portion of the hold which is farthest forward.  -- Fore piece, a front piece, as the flap in the fore part of a sidesaddle, to guard the rider's dress.  -- Fore plane, a carpenter's plane, in size and use between a jack plane and a smoothing plane. Knight.  -- Fore reading, previous perusal. [Obs.] Hales.  -- Fore rent, in Scotland, rent payable before a crop is gathered.  -- Fore sheets (Naut.), the forward portion of a rowboat; the space beyond the front thwart. See Stern sheets.  -- Fore shore. (a) A bank in advance of a sea wall, to break the force of the surf. (b) The seaward projecting, slightly inclined portion of a breakwater. Knight. (c) The part of the shore between high and low water marks.  -- Fore sight, that one of the two sights of a gun which is near the muzzle.  -- Fore tackle (Naut.), the tackle on the foremast of a ship.  -- Fore topmast. (Naut.) See Fore-topmast, in the Vocabulary.  -- Fore wind, a favorable wind. [Obs.] Sailed on smooth seas, by fore winds borne. Sandys. -- Fore world, the antediluvian world. [R.] Southey. 

FORE:  The front; hence, that which is in front; the future. At the fore (Naut.), at the fore royal masthead; -- said of a flag, so raised as a signal for sailing, etc.  -- To the fore. (a) In advance; to the front; to a prominent position; in plain sight; in readiness for use. (b) In existence; alive; not worn out, lost, or spent, as money, etc. [Irish] "While I am to the fore." W. Collins. "How many captains in the regiment had two thousand pounds to the fore" Thackeray. 

FORE:  Before; -- sometimes written 'fore as if a contraction of afore or before. [Obs.] 

FOREADMONISH:  To admonish beforehand, or before the act or event. Bp. Hall. 

FOREADVISE:  To advise or counsel before the time of action, or before the event. Shak. 

FOREALLEGE:  To allege or cite before. Fotherby. 

FOREAPPOINT:  To set, order, or appoint, beforehand. Sherwood. 

FOREAPPOINTMENT:  Previous appointment; preordinantion. Sherwood. 

FOREARM:  To arm or prepare for attack or resistance before the time of need. South. 

FOREARM:  That part of the arm or fore limb between the elbow and wrist; the antibrachium. 

FOREBEAM:  The breast beam of a loom. 

FOREBEAR:  An ancestor. See Forbear. 

FOREBODE:  To fortell; to presage; to augur. If I forebode aright. Hawthorne. 

FOREBODE:  Prognostication; presage. [Obs.] 

FOREBODEMENT:  The act of foreboding; the thing foreboded. 

FOREBODER:  One who forebodes. 

FOREBODING:  Presage of coming ill; expectation of misfortune. 

FOREBODINGLY:  In a foreboding manner. 

FOREBRACE:  A rope applied to the fore yardarm, to change the position of the foresail. 

FOREBRAIN:  The anterior of the three principal divisions of the brain, including the prosencephalon and thalamencephalon. Sometimes restricted to the prosencephalon only. See Brain. 

FOREBY:  Near; hard by; along; past. See Forby. Spenser. 

FORECAST:  To contrive or plan beforehand. If it happen as I did forecast. Milton. 

FORECAST:  Previous contrivance or determination; predetermination. He makes this difference to arise from the forecast and predetermination of the gods themselves. Addison.  2. Foresight of consequences, and provision against them; prevision; premeditation. His calm, deliberate forecast better fitted him for the council than the camp. Prescott. 

FORECASTER:  One who forecast. Johnson. 

FORECHOSEN:  Chosen beforehand. 

FORECITED:  Cited or quoted before or above. Arbuthnot. 

FORECLOSE:  To shut up or out; to preclude; to stop; to prevent; to bar; to exclude. The embargo with Spain foreclosed this trade. Carew. To foreclose a mortgager (Law), to cut him off by a judgment of court from the power of redeeming the mortgaged premises, termed his equity of redemption.  -- To foreclose a mortgage, (not technically correct, but often used to signify) the obtaining a judgment for the payment of an overdue mortgage, and the exposure of the mortgaged property to sale to meet the mortgage debt. Wharton. 

FORECLOSURE:  The act or process of foreclosing; a proceeding which bars or extinguishes a mortgager's right of redeeming a mortgaged estate. 

FORECONCEIVE:  To preconceive; to imagine beforehand. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FOREDATE:  To date before the true time; to antendate. 

FOREDECK:  The fore part of a deck, or of a ship. 

FOREDEEM:  To recognize or judge in advance; to forebode. [Obs.] Udall. Laugh at your misery, as foredeeming you An idle meteor. J. Webster. 

FOREDEEM:  To know or discover beforehand; to foretell. [Obs.] Which [maid] could guess and foredeem of things past, present, and to come. Genevan Test. 

FOREDESIGN:  To plan beforehand; to intend previously. Cheyne. 

FOREDETERMINE:  To determine or decree beforehand. Bp. Hopkins. 

FOREDISPOSE:  To bestow beforehand. [R.] King James had by promise foredisposed the place on the Bishop of Meath. Fuller. 

FOREDOOM:  To doom beforehand; to predestinate. Thou art foredomed to view the Stygian state. Dryden. 

FOREDOOM:  Doom or sentence decreed in advance. "A dread foredoom ringing in the ears of the guilty adult." Southey. 

FOREFATHER:  One who precedes another in the line of genealogy in any degree, but usually in a remote degree; an ancestor. Respecting your forefathers, you would have been taught to respect yourselves. Burke. Forefathers' Day, the anniversary of the day (December 21) on which the Pilgrim Fathers landed at Plymouth, Massachusetts (1620). On account of a mistake in reckoning the change from Old Style to New Style, it has generally been celebrated on the 22d. 

FOREFEEL:  To feel beforehand; to have a presentiment of. [Obs.] As when, with unwieldy waves, the great sea forefeels winds. Chapman. 

FOREFENCE:  Defense in front. [Obs.] 

FOREFEND:  To hinder; to fend off; to avert; to prevent the approach of; to forbid or prohibit. See Forfend. God forefend it should ever be recorded in our history. Landor. It would be a far better work . . . to forefend the cruelty. I. Taylor. 

FOREFINGER:  The finger next to the thumb; the index. 

FOREFLOW:  To flow before. [Obs.] 

FOREFOOT:  A piece of timber which terminates the keel at the fore end, connecting it with the lower end of the stem. 

FOREFRONT:  Foremost part or place. Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle. 2 Sam. xi. 15. Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, standing in the forefront for all time, the masters of those who know. J. C. Shairp. 

FOREGAME:  A first game; first plan. [Obs.] Whitlock. 

FOREGANGER:  A short rope grafted on a harpoon, to which a longer lin Totten. 

FOREGATHER:  Same as Forgather. 

FOREGIFT:  A premium paid by 

FOREGLEAM:  An antecedent or premonitory gleam; a dawning light. The foregleams of wisdom. Whittier. 

FOREGO:  To go before; to precede; -- used especially in the present and past participles. Pleasing remembrance of a thought foregone. Wordsworth. For which the very mother's face forewent The mother's special patience. Mrs. Browning. Foregone conclusion, one which has preceded argument or examination; one predetermined. 

FOREGOER:  One who forbears to enjoy. 

FOREGROUND:  On a painting, and sometimes in a bas-relief, mosaic picture, or the like, that part of the scene represented, which is nearest to the spectator, and therefore occupies the lowest part of the work of art itself. Cf. Distance, n., 6. 

FOREGUESS:  To conjecture. [Obs.] 

FOREGUT:  The anterior part of the alimentary canal, from the mouth to the intestine, o 

FOREHAND:  Done beforehand; anticipative. And so extenuate the forehand sin. Shak. 

FOREHEAR:  To hear beforehand. 

FOREHEARTH:  The forward extension of the hearth of a blast furnace under the tymp. 

FOREHEND:  See Forhend. [Obs.] 

FOREHEW:  To hew or cut in front. [Obs.] Sackville. 

FOREHOLD:  The forward part of the hold of a ship. 

FOREHOLDING:  Ominous foreboding; superstitious prognostication. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 

FOREHOOK:  A piece of timber placed across the stem, to unite the bows and strengthen the fore part of the ship; a breast hook. 

FOREIGNER:  A person belonging to or owning allegiance to a foreign country; one not native in the country or jurisdiction under consideration, or not naturalized there; an alien; a stranger. Joy is such a foreigner, So mere a stranger to my thoughts. Denham. Nor could the majesty of the English crown appear in a greater luster, either to foreigners or subjects. Swift. 

FOREIGNISM:  Anything peculiar to a foreign language or people; a foreign idiom or custom. It is a pity to see the technicalities of the so-called liberal professions distigured by foreignisms. Fitzed. Hall. 

FOREIGNNESS:  The quality of being foreign; remoteness; want of relation or appropriateness. Let not the foreignness of the subject hinder you from endeavoring to set me right. Locke. A foreignness of complexion. G. Eliot. 

FOREIN:  Foreign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FOREJUDGE:  To judge beforehand, or before hearing the facts and proof; to prejudge. 

FOREJUDGE:  To expel from court for some offense or misconduct, as an attorney or officer; to deprive or put out of a thing by the judgment of a court. Burrill. 

FOREJUDGER:  A judgment by which one is deprived or put of a right or thing in question. 

FOREJUDGMENT:  Prejudgment. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FOREKNOW:  To have previous knowledge of; to know beforehand. Who would the miseries of man foreknow Dryden. 

FOREKNOWABLE:  That may be foreknown. Dr. H. More. 

FOREKNOWER:  One who foreknows. 

FOREKNOWINGLY:  With foreknowledge. He who . . . foreknowingly loses his life. Jer. Taylor. 

FOREKNOWLEDGE:  Knowledge of a thing before it happens, or of whatever is to happen; prescience. If I foreknew, Foreknowledge had no influence on their fault. Milton. 

FOREL:  A kind of parchment for book covers. See Forrill. 

FOREL:  To bind with a forel. [R.] Fuller. 

FORELAND:  A piece of ground between the wall of a place and the moat. Farrow.  3. (Hydraul. Engin.)  That portion of the natural shore on the outside of the embankment which receives the stock of waves and deadens their force. Knight. 

FORELEADER:  One who leads others by his example; aguide. 

FORELEND:  See Forlend. [Obs.] As if that life to losse they had forelent. Spenser. 

FORELET:  See Forlet. [Obs.] Holland. 

FORELIE:  To lie in front of. [Obs.] Which forelay Athwart her snowy breast. Spenser. 

FORELIFT:  To lift up in front. [Obs.] 

FORELOCK:  A cotter or split pin, as in a slot in a bolt, to prevent retraction; a linchpin; a pin fastening the cap-square of a gun. Forelock bolt, a bolt retained by a key, gib, or cotter passing through a slot.  -- Forelock hook (Rope Making), a winch or whirl by which a bunch of three yarns is twisted into a standard. Knight.  -- To take time, or occasion, by the forelock, to make prompt use of anything; not to let slip an opportunity. Time is painted with a lock before and bald behind, signifying thereby that we must take time by the forelock; for when it is once past, there is no recalling it. Swift. On occasion's forelock watchful wait. Milton. 

FORELOOK:  To look beforehand or forward. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FOREMAN:  The first or chief man; as: (a) The chief man of a jury, who acts as their speaker. (b) The chief of a set of hands employed in a shop, or on works of any kind, who superintends the rest; an overseer. 

FOREMAST:  The mast nearest the bow. Foremast hand or man (Naut.), a common sailor; also, a man stationed to attend to the gear of the foremast. 

FOREMEANT:  Intended beforehand; premeditated. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FOREMENTIONED:  Mentioned before; already cited; aforementioned. Addison. 

FOREMILK:  The milk secreted just before, or directly after, the birth of a child or of the young of an animal; colostrum. 

FOREMOST:  First in time or place; most advanced; chief in rank or dignity; as, the foremost troops of an army. THat struck the foremost man of all this world. Shak. 

FOREMOSTLY:  In the foremost place or order; among the foremost. J. Webster. 

FOREMOTHER:  A female ancestor. 

FORENAME:  A name that precedes the family name or surname; a first name. Selden. 

FORENAME:  To name or mention before. Shak. 

FORENAMED:  Named before; aforenamed. 

FORENDIHAZ:  See Legislature. 

FORENENST:  Over against; opposite to. [Now dialectic] The land forenenst the Greekish shore. Fairfax.  FORE-NIGHT Fore"-night`, n.  The evening between twilight and bedtime. [Scot.] 

FORENOON:  The early part of the day, from morning to meridian, or noon. 

FORENOTICE:  Notice or information of an event before it happens; forewarning. [R.] Rymer. 

FORENSAL:  Forensic. [R.] 

FORENSIC:  Belonging to courts of judicature or to public discussion and debate; used in legal proceedings, or in public discussions; argumentative; rhetorical; as, forensic eloquence or disputes. Forensic medicine, medical jurisprudence; medicine in its relations to law. 

FORENSIC:  An exercise in debate; a forensic contest; an argumentative thesis. 

FORENSICAL:  Forensic. Berkley. 

FOREORDAIN:  To ordain or appoint beforehand; to preordain; to predestinate; to predetermine. Hooker. 

FOREORDINATE:  To foreordain. 

FOREORDINATION:  Previous ordination or appointment; predetermination; predestination.  FORE PART; FOREPART Fore" part`, or; Fore"part`, n.  The part most advanced, or first in time or in place; the beginning. 

FOREPAST:  Bygone. [Obs.] Shak. 

FOREPRIZE:  To prize or rate beforehand. [Obs.] Hooker. 

FOREPROMISED:  Promised beforehand; preëngaged. Bp. Hall. 

FOREQUOTED:  Cited before; quoted in a foregoing part of the treatise or essay. 

FORERAN:  imp. of Forerun. 

FORERANK:  The first rank; the front. 

FOREREACH:  To advance or gain upon; -- said of a vessel that gains upon another when sailing closehauled. 

FOREREACH:  To shoot ahead, especially when going in stays. R. H. Dana, Jr. 

FOREREAD:  To tell beforehand; to signify by tokens; to predestine. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORERECITED:  Named or recited before. "The forerecited practices." Shak. 

FOREREMEMBERED:  Called to mind previously. Bp. Montagu. 

FORERIGHT:  Ready; directly forward; going before. [Obs.] "A foreright wind." Chapman. 

FORERIGHT:  Right forward; onward. [Obs.] 

FORERUNNER:  A piece of rag terminating the log line. 

FORESAID:  Mentioned before; aforesaid. 

FORESAY:  To foretell. [Obs.] Her danger nigh that sudden change foresaid. Fairfax. 

FORESEE:  To have or exercise foresight. [Obs.] 

FORESEEN:  , or (strictly) p. p. Provided; in case that; on condition that. [Obs.] One manner of meat is most sure to every complexion, foreseen that it be alway most commonly in conformity of qualities, with the person that eateth. Sir T. Elyot. 

FORESEER:  One who foresees or foreknows. 

FORESEIZE:  To seize beforehand. 

FORESHADOW:  To shadow or typi Dryden. 

FORESHEW:  See Foreshow. 

FORESHIP:  The fore part of a ship. [Obs.] 

FORESHORTEN:  To represent on a plane surface, as if extended in a direction toward the spectator or nearly so; to shorten by drawing in perspective.  2. Fig.: To represent pictorially to the imagination. Songs, and deeds, and lives that lie Foreshortened in the tract of time. Tennyson. 

FORESHORTENING:  Representation in a foreshortened mode or way. 

FORESHOT:  In distillation of low wines, the first portion of spirit that comes over, being a fluid abounding in fusel oil. Knight. 

FORESHOW:  To show or exhibit beforehand; to give foreknowledge of; to prognosticate; to foretell. Your looks foreshow You have a gentle heart. Shak. Next, like Aurora, Spenser rose, Whose purple blush the day foreshows. Denham. 

FORESHOWER:  One who predicts. 

FORESIGHT:  Any sight or reading of the leveling staff, except the backsight; any sight or bearing taken by a compass or theodolite in a forward direction.  4. (Gun.)  Muzzle sight. See Fore sight, under Fore, a. 

FORESIGHTED:  Sagacious; prudent; provident for the future. Bartram. 

FORESIGHTFUL:  Foresighted. [Obs.] 

FORESIGNIFY:  To signify beforehand; to foreshow; to typify. Milton. 

FORESKIN:  The fold of skin which covers the glans of the penis; the prepuce. 

FORESKIRT:  The front skirt of a garment, in distinction from the train. Honor's train Is longer than his foreskirt. Shak. 

FORESLACK:  See Forslack. 

FORESLEEVE:  The sleeve below the elbow. 

FORESLOW:  To make slow; to hinder; to obstruct. [Obs.] See Forslow, v. t. No stream, no wood, no mountain could foreslow Their hasty pace. Fairfax. 

FORESLOW:  To loiter. [Obs.] See Forslow, v. i. 

FORESPEAK:  See Forspeak. 

FORESPEAK:  To foretell; to predict. [Obs.] My mother was half a witch; never anything that she forespake but came to pass. Beau. & Fl. 

FORESPEAKING:  A prediction; also, a preface. [Obs.] Camden. Huloet. 

FORESPEECH:  A preface. [Obs.] Sherwood. 

FORESPENT:  Already spent; gone by; past. [Obs.] Shak. 

FORESPENT:  See Forspent. 

FORESPURRER:  One who rides before; a harbinger. [Obs.] Shak. 

FOREST:  A large extent or precinct of country, generally waste and woody, belonging to the sovereign, set apart for the keeping of game for his use, not inclosed, but distinguished by certain limits, and protected by certain laws, courts, and officers of its own. Burrill. 

FOREST:  Of or pertaining to a forest; sylvan. Forest fly. (Zoöl.) (a) One of numerous species of blood-sucking flies, of the family Tabanidæ, which attack both men and beasts. See Horse fly. (b) A fly of the genus Hippobosca, esp. H. equina. See Horse tick.  -- Forest glade, a grassy space in a forest. Thomson.  -- Forest laws, laws for the protection of game, preservation of timber, etc., in forests.  -- Forest tree, a tree of the forest, especially a timber tree, as distinguished from a fruit tree. 

FOREST:  To cover with trees or wood. 

FORESTAFF:  An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes of heavenly bodies, now superseded by the sextant; -- called also cross- staff. Brande & C. 

FORESTAL:  Of or pertaining to forests; as, forestal rights. 

FORESTALL:  To obstruct or stop up, as a way; to stop the passage of on highway; to intercept on the road, as goods on the way to market. To forestall the market, to buy or contract for merchandise or provision on its way to market, with the intention of selling it again at a higher price; to dissuade persons from bringing their goods or provisions there; or to persuade them to enhance the price when there. This was an offense at law in England until 1844. Burrill.  Syn.  -- To anticipate; monopolize; engross. 

FORESTALLER:  One who forestalls; esp., one who forestalls the market. Locke. 

FORESTAY:  A large, strong rope, reaching from the foremast head to the bowsprit, to support the mast. See Illust. under Ship. 

FORESTER:  A lepidopterous insect belonging to Alypia and allied genera; as, the eight-spotted forester (A. octomaculata), which in the larval state is injurious to the grapevine. 

FORESTICK:  Front stick of a hearth fire. 

FORESTRY:  The art of forming or of cultivating forests; the management of growing timber.  FORESWART; FORESWART Fore"swart`, Fore"swart`, a. [Obs.]  See Forswat. 

FORETASTE:  A taste beforehand; enjoyment in advance; anticipation. 

FORETASTER:  One who tastes beforehand, or before another. 

FORETEACH:  To teach beforehand. [Obs.] 

FORETELL:  To predict; to tell before occurence; to prophesy; to foreshow. Deeds then undone my faithful tongue foretold. Pope. Prodigies, foretelling the future eminence and luster of his character. C. Middleton.  Syn.  -- To predict; prophesy; prognosticate; augur. 

FORETELL:  To utter predictions. Acts iii. 24. 

FORETELLER:  One who predicts. Boyle. 

FORETHINK:  To contrive beforehand. [Obs.] 

FORETHOUGHT:  Thought of, or planned, beforehand; aforethought; prepense; hence, deliberate. "Forethought malice." Bacon. 

FORETHOUGHT:  A thinking or planning beforehand; prescience; premeditation; forecast; provident care. A sphere that will demand from him forethought, courage, and wisdom. I. Taylor. 

FORETHOUGHTFUL:  Having forethought. [R.] 

FORETIME:  The past; the time before the present. "A very dim foretime." J. C. Shairp. 

FORETOKEN:  Prognostic; previous omen. Sir P. Sidney. 

FORETOKEN:  To foreshow; to presignify; to prognosticate. Whilst strange prodigious signs foretoken blood. Daniel.  FORE TOOTH Fore" tooth`, pl. Fore teeth (. (Anat.)  One of the teeth in the forepart of the mouth; an incisor. 

FORETOP:  The platform at the head of the foremast.  FORE-TOPGALLANT Fore`-top*gal"lant ( or ), a. (Naut.)  Designating the mast, sail, yard, etc., above the topmast; as, the fore-topgallant sail. See Sail.  FORE-TOPMAST Fore`-top"mast, n. (Naut.)  The mast erected at the head of the foremast, and at the head of which stands the fore-topgallant mast. See Ship.  FORE-TOPSAIL Fore`-top"sail ( or ), n. (Naut.)  See Sail. 

FOREVOUCHED:  Formerly vouched or avowed; affirmed in advance. [R.] Shak. 

FOREWARD:  The van; the front. [Obs.] My foreward shall be drawn out all in length, Consisting equally of horse and foot. Shak. 

FOREWARN:  To warn beforehand; to give previous warning, admonition, information, or notice to; to caution in advance. We were forewarned of your coming. Shak. 

FOREWASTE:  See Forewaste. Gascoigne. 

FOREWEND:  To go before. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FOREWISH:  To wish beforehand. 

FOREWITE:  To foreknow. [Obs.] [Written also forwete.] Chaucer. 

FOREWOMAN:  A woman who is chief; a woman who has charge of the work or workers in a shop or other place; a head woman. Tatler. W. Besant. 

FOREWORD:  A preface. Furnvall. 

FOREWORN:  Worn out; wasted; used up. [Archaic] Old foreworn stories almost forgotten. Brydges. 

FOREWOT:  , 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forewite. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FOREYARD:  The lowermost yard on the foremast.  Note: [See Illust. of Ship.] 

FORFALTURE:  Forfeiture. [Obs.] 

FORFEIT:  Lost or alienated for an offense or crime; liable to penal seizure. Thy wealth being forfeit to the state. Shak. To tread the forfeit paradise. Emerson. 

FORFEIT:  To lose, or lose the right to, by some error, fault, offense, or crime; to render one's self by misdeed liable to be deprived of; to alienate the right to possess, by some neglect or crime; as, to forfeit an estate by treason; to forfeit reputation by a breach of promise; -- with to before the one acquiring what is forfeited. [They] had forfeited their property by their crimes. Burke. Undone and forfeited to cares forever! Shak. 

FORFEIT:  In the condition of being forfeited; subject to alienation. Shak. Once more I will renew His lapsèd powers, though forfeite. Milton. 

FORFEITABLE:  Liable to be forfeited; subject to forfeiture. For the future, uses shall be subject to the statutes of mortmain, and forfeitable, like the lands themselves. Blackstone. 

FORFEITER:  One who incurs a penalty of forfeiture. 

FORFEND:  To prohibit; to forbid; to avert. [Archaic] Which peril heaven forefend! Shak.  Note: This is etymologically the preferable spelling. 

FORFERED:  Excessively alarmed; in great fear. [Obs.] "Forfered of his death." Chaucer. 

FORFETE:  To incur a penalty; to transgress. [Obs.] And all this suffered our Lord Jesus Christ that never forfeted. Chaucer. 

FORFEX:  A pair of shears. Pope. 

FORFICATE:  Deeply forked, as the tail of certain birds. 

FORFICULA:  A genus of insects including the earwigs. See Earwig, 1. 

FORGATHER:  To convene; to gossip; to meet accidentally. [Scot.] Jamieson. Within that circle he forgathered with many a fool. Wilson. 

FORGAVE:  imp. of Forgive. 

FORGE:  To move heavily and slowly, as a ship after the sails are furled; to work one's way, as one ship in outsailing another; -- used especially in the phrase to forge ahead. Totten. And off she [a ship] forged without a shock. De Quincey. 

FORGE:  To impel forward slowly; as, to forge a ship forward. 

FORGEMAN:  A skilled smith, who has a hammerer to assist him. 

FORGER:  One who forges, makes, of forms; a fabricator; a falsifier.  2. Especially: One guilty of forgery; one who makes or issues a counterfeit document. 

FORGETFULLY:  In a forgetful manner. 

FORGETIVE:  Inventive; productive; capable. [Obs.] Shak.  FORGET-ME-NOT For*get"-me-not`, n. Etym: [Cf. G. vergissmeinnicht.] (Bot.)  A small herb, of the genus Myosotis (M. palustris, incespitosa, etc.), bearing a beautiful blue flower, and extensively considered the emblem of fidelity.  Note: Formerly the name was given to the Ajuga Chamæpitus. 

FORGETTABLE:  Liable to be, or that may be, forgotten. Carlyle. 

FORGETTER:  One who forgets; a heedless person. Johnson. 

FORGETTINGLY:  By forgetting. 

FORGING:  A piece of forged work in metal; -- a general name for a piece of hammered iron or steel. There are very few yards in the world at which such forgings could be turned out. London Times. 

FORGIVABLE:  Capable of being forgiven; pardonable; venial. Sherwood. 

FORGIVER:  One who forgives. Johnson. 

FORGIVING:  Disposed to forgive; inclined to overlook offenses; mild; merciful; compassionate; placable; as, a forgiving temper.  -- For*giv"ing*ly, adv.  -- For*giv"ing*ness, n. J. C. Shairp. 

FORGO:  To pass by; to leave. See 1st Forego. For sith [since] I shall forgoon my liberty At your request. Chaucer. And four [days] since Florimell the court forwent. Spenser.  Note: This word in spelling has been confused with, and almost superseded by, forego to go before. Etymologically the form forgo is correct. 

FORGOT:  imp. & p. p. of Forget. 

FORGOTTEN:  p. p. of Forget. 

FORHALL:  To harass; to torment; to distress. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORHEND:  To seize upon. [Obs.] 

FORINSECAL:  Foreign; alien. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 

FORISFAMILIATE:  Literally, to put out of a family; hence, to portion off, so as to exclude further claim of inheritance; to emancipate (as a with his own consent) from paternal authority. Blackstone. 

FORISFAMILIATE:  To renounce a legal title to a further share of paternal inheritance. 

FORISFAMILIATION:  The act of forisfamiliating. 

FORK:  To raise, or pitch with a fork, as hay; to dig or turn over with a fork, as the soil. Forking the sheaves on the high-laden cart. Prof. Wilson. To fork over or out, to hand or pay over, as money. [Slang] G. Eliot. 

FORKERVE:  See Forcarve, v. t. 

FORKINESS:  The quality or state or dividing in a forklike manner. 

FORKLESS:  Having no fork. 

FORKTAIL:  Having the outer tail feathers longer than the median ones; swallow-tailed; -- said of many birds. Fork-tailed flycatcher (Zoöl.), a tropical American flycatcher (Milvulus tyrannus).  -- Fork-tailed gull (Zoöl.), a gull of the genus Xema, of two species, esp. X. Sabinii of the Arctic Ocean.  -- Fork-tailed kite (Zoöl.), a graceful American kite (Elanoides forficatus); -- called also swallow-tailed kite. 

FORKY:  Opening into two or more parts or shoots; forked; furcated. "Forky tongues." Pope. 

FORLAFT:  p. p. of Forleave. Chaucer. 

FORLAY:  To lie in wait for; to ambush. An ambushed thief forlays a traveler. Dryden. 

FORLEAVE:  To leave off wholly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORLEND:  To give up wholly. [Obs.] 

FORLESE:  To lose utterly. [Obs.] haucer. 

FORLET:  To give up; to leave; to abandon. [Obs.] "To forlet sin." Chaucer. 

FORLIE:  See Forlie. 

FORLORE:  oForlese. [Obs.] The beasts their caves, the birds their neforlore. Fairfax. 

FORLORNLY:  In a forlorn manner. Pollok. 

FORLORNNESS:  State of being forlorn. Boyle. 

FORLYE:  Same as Forlie. [Obs.] 

FORM:  A suffix used to denote in the form or shape of, resembling, etc.; as, valiform; oviform. 

FORM:  The type or other matter from which an impression is to be taken, arranged and secured in a chase.  11. (Fine Arts)  The boundary line of a material object. In painting, more generally, the human body.  12. (Gram.)  The particular shape or structure of a word or part of speech; as, participial forms; verbal forms.  13. (Crystallog.)  The combination of planes included under a general crystallographic symbol. It is not necessarily a closed solid.  14. (Metaph.)  That assemblage or disposition of qualities which makes a conception, or that internal constitution which makes an existing thing to be what it is; -- called essential or substantial form, and contradistinguished from matter; hence, active or formative nature; law of being or activity; subjectively viewed, an idea; objectively, a law.  15. Mode of acting or manifestation to the senses, or the intellect; as, water assumes the form of ice or snow. In modern usage, the elements of a conception furnished by the mind's own activity, as contrasted with its object or condition, which is called the matter; subjectively, a mode of apprehension or belief conceived as dependent on the constitution of the mind; objectively, universal and necessary accompaniments or elements of every object known or thought of.  16. (Biol.)  The peculiar characteristics of an organism as a type of others; also, the structure of the parts of an animal or plant.  Good form or Bad form, the general appearance, condition or action, originally of horses, atterwards of persons; as, the members of a boat crew are said to be in good form when they pull together uniformly. The phrases are further used colloquially in description of conduct or manners in society; as, it is not good form to smoke in the presence of a lady. 

FORM:  To derive by grammatical rules, as by adding the proper suffixes and affixes. 

FORMALDEHYDE:  A colorless, volatile liquid, H2CO, resembling acetic or ethyl aldehyde, and chemically intermediate between methyl alcohol and formic acid. 

FORMALIN:  An aqueous solution of formaldehyde, used as a preservative in museums and as a disinfectant. 

FORMALISM:  The practice or the doctrine of strict adherence to, or dependence on, external forms, esp. in matters of religion. Official formalism. Sir H. Rawlinson. 

FORMALIST:  One overattentive to forms, or too much confined to them; esp., one who rests in external religious forms, or observes strictly the outward forms of worship, without possessing the life and spirit of religion. As far a formalist from wisdom sits, In judging eyes, as libertines from wits. Young. 

FORMALITY:  The dress prescribed for any body of men, academical, municipal, or sacerdotal. [Obs.] The doctors attending her in their formalities as far as Shotover. Fuller.  6. That which is formal; the formal part. It unties the inward knot of marriage, . . . while it aims to keep fast the outward formality. Milton.  7. The quality which makes a thing what it is; essence. The material part of the evil came from our father upon us, but the formality of it, the sting and the curse, is only by ourselves. Jer. Taylor. The formality of the vow lies in the promise made to God. Bp. Stillingfleet.  8. (Scholastic. Philos.)  The manner in which a thing is conceived or constituted by an act of human thinking; the result of such an act; as, animality and rationality are formalities. 

FORMALIZE:  To affect formality. [Obs.] ales. 

FORMALLY:  In a formal manner; essentially; characteristically; expressly; regularly; ceremoniously; precisely. That which formally makes this [charity] a Christian grace, is the spring from which it flows. Smalridge. You and your followers do stand formally divided against the authorized guides of the church and rest of the people. Hooker. 

FORMAT:  The shape and size of a book; hence, its external form.  The older manuscripts had been written in a much larger format than that found convenient for university work. G. H. Putnam.  One might, indeed, protest that the format is a little too luxurious. Nature. 

FORMATE:  A salt of formic acid. [Written also formiate.] 

FORMATION:  The arrangement of a body of troops, as in a square, column, etc. Farrow. 

FORMATIVE:  Serving to form; derivative; not radical; as, a termination merely formative.  3. (Biol.)  Capable of growth and development; germinal; as, living or formative matter. 

FORME:  Same as Paté or Patté. 

FORME:  First. [Obs.] "Adam our forme father." Chaucer. 

FORMED:  Arranged, as stars in a constellation; as, formed stars. [R.]  2. (Biol.)  Having structure; capable of growth and development; organized; as, the formed or organized ferments. See Ferment, n. Formed material (Biol.), a term employed by Beale to denote the lifeless matter of a cell, that which is physiologically dead, in distinction from the truly germinal or living matter. 

FORMEDON:  A writ of right for a tenant in tail in case of a discontinuance of the estate tail. This writ has been abolished. 

FORMELL:  The female of a hawk or falcon. 

FORMERET:  One of the half ribs against the walls in a ceiling vaulted with ribs. 

FORMERLY:  In time past, either in time immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of old; heretofore. 

FORMFUL:  Creative; imaginative. [R.] "The formful brain." Thomson. 

FORMIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, ants; as, formic acid; in an extended sense, pertaining to, or derived from, formic acid; as, formic ether. Amido formic acid, carbamic acid.  -- Formic acid, a colorless, mobile liquid, HCO.OH, of a sharp, acid taste, occurring naturally in ants, nettles, pine needles, etc., and produced artifically in many ways, as by the oxidation of methyl alcohol, by the reduction of carbonic acid or the destructive distillation of oxalic acid. It is the first member of the fatty acids in the paraffin series, and is homologous with acetic acid. 

FORMICA:  A Linnæan genus of hymenopterous insects, including the common ants. See Ant. 

FORMICAROID:  Like or pertaining to the family Formicaridæ or ant thrushes. 

FORMICARY:  The nest or dwelling of a swarm of ants; an ant-hill. 

FORMICATE:  Resembling, or pertaining to, an ant or ants. 

FORMICATION:  A sensation resembling that made by the creeping of ants on the skin. Dunglison. 

FORMICID:  Pertaining to the ants.  -- n.  One of the family Formicidæ, or ants. 

FORMIDABILITY:  Formidableness. Walpole. 

FORMIDABLE:  Exciting fear or apprehension; impressing dread; adapted to excite fear and deter from approach, encounter, or undertaking; alarming. They seemed to fear the formodable sight. Dryden. I swell my preface into a volume, and make it formidable, when you see so many pages behind. Drydn.  Syn.  -- Dreadful; fearful; terrible; frightful; shocking; horrible; terrific; tremendous. 

FORMIDABLENESS:  The quality of being formidable, or adapted to excite dread. Boyle. 

FORMIDABLY:  In a formidable manner. 

FORMIDOLOSE:  Very much afraid. [Obs.] Bailey. 

FORMING:  The act or process of giving form or shape to anything; as, in shipbuilding, the exact shaping of partially shaped timbers. 

FORMLESS:  Shapeless; without a determinate form; wanting regularity of shape.  -- Form"less*ly, adv.  -- Form"less*ness, n. 

FORMULA:  A written confession of faith; a formal statement of foctrines.  3. (Math.)  A rule or principle expressed in algebraic language; as, the binominal formula.  4. (Med.)  A prescription or recipe for the preparation of a medicinal compound.  5. (Chem.)  A symbolic expression (by means of letters, figures, etc.) of the constituents or constitution of a compound.  Note: Chemical formulæ consist of the abbreviations of the names of the elements, with a small figure at the lower right hand, to denote the number of atoms of each element contained. Empirical formula (Chem.), an expression which gives the simple proportion of the constituents; as, the empirical formula of acetic acid is C2H4O2.  -- Graphic formula, Rational formula (Chem.), an expression of the constitution, and in a limited sense of the structure, of a compound, by the grouping of its atoms or radicals; as, a rational formula of acetic acid is CH3.(C:O).OH; -- called also structural formula, constitutional formula, etc. See also the formula of Benzene nucleus, under Benzene.  -- Molecular formula (Chem.), a formula indicating the supposed molecular constitution of a compound. 

FORMULARISTIC:  Pertaining to, or exhibiting, formularization. Emerson. 

FORMULARIZATION:  The act of formularizing; a formularized or formulated statement or exhibition. C. Kingsley. 

FORMULARIZE:  To reduce to a forula; to formulate. 

FORMULARY:  Stated; prescribed; ritual. 

FORMULATE:  To reduce to, or express in, a formula; to put in a clear and definite form of statement or expression. G. P. Marsh. 

FORMULATION:  The act, process, or result of formulating or reducing to a formula. 

FORMULE:  A set or prescribed model; a formula. [Obs.] Johnson. 

FORMULIZATION:  The act or process of reducing to a formula; the state of being formulized. 

FORMULIZE:  To reduce to a formula; to formulate. Emerson. 

FORNCAST:  Predestined. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORNICAL:  Relating to a fornix.  FORNICATE; FORNICATED For"ni*cate, For"ni*ca`ted, a. Etym: [L. fornicatus, fr. fornix, - icis, an arch, vault.]  1. Vaulted like an oven or furnace; arched.  2. (Bot.)  Arching over; overarched. Gray. 

FORNICATE:  To commit fornication; to have unlawful sexual intercourse. 

FORNICATOR:  An unmarried person, male or female, who has criminal intercourse with the other sex; one guilty of fornication. 

FORNICATRESS:  A woman guilty of fornication. Shak. 

FOROLD:  Very old. [Obs.] A bear's skin, coal-black, forold. Chaucer. 

FORPASS:  To pass by or along; to pass over. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORPINE:  To waste away completely by suffering or torment. [Archaic] "Pale as a forpined ghost." Chaucer. 

FORRAY:  To foray; to ravage; to pillage. For they that morn had forrayed all the land. Fairfax. 

FORRAY:  The act of ravaging; a ravaging; a predatory excursion. See Foray. 

FORRILL:  Lambskin parchment; vellum; forel. McElrath. 

FORSAKER:  One who forsakes or deserts. 

FORSAY:  To forbid; to renounce; to forsake; to deny. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORSHAPE:  To render misshapen. [Obs.] Gower. 

FORSLACK:  To neglect by idleness; to delay or to waste by sloth. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORSLOUTHE:  To lose by sloth or negligence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORSLOW:  To delay; to hinder; to neglect; to put off. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FORSLOW:  To loiter. [Obs.] Shak. 

FORSLUGGE:  To lsoe by idleness or slotch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORSOOTH:  In truth; in fact; certainly; very well; -- formerly used as an expression of deference or respect, especially to woman; now used ironically or contemptuously. A fit man, forsooth, to govern a realm! Hayward. Our old English word forsooth has been changed for the French madam. Guardian. 

FORSOOTH:  To address respectfully with the term forsooth. [Obs.] The captain of the "Charles" had forsoothed her, though he knew her well enough and she him. Pepys. 

FORSOOTH:  A person who used forsooth much; a very ceremonious and deferential person. [R.] You sip so like a forsooth of the city. B. Jonson. 

FORSPENT:  Wasted in strength; tired; exhausted. [Archaic] A gentleman almost forspent with speed. Shak. 

FORSTALL:  To forestall. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORSTER:  A forester. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORSTRAUGHT:  Distracted. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORSWAT:  Spent with heat; covered with sweat. [Obs.] P. Sidney. 

FORSWEAR:  To swear falsely; to commit perjury. Shak. 

FORSWEARER:  One who rejects of renounces upon oath; one who swears a false oath. 

FORSWONK:  Overlabored; exhausted; worn out. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORSWORE:  imp. of Forswear. 

FORSWORN:  p. p. of Forswear. 

FORSWORNNESS:  State of being forsworn. [R.] 

FORSYTHIA:  A shrub of the Olive family, with yellow blossoms. 

FORT:  A strong or fortified place; usually, a small fortified place, occupied only by troops, surrounded with a ditch, rampart, and parapet, or with palisades, stockades, or other means of defense; a fortification. Detached works, depending solely on their own strength, belong to the class of works termed forts. Farrow. 

FORTALICE:  A small outwork of a fortification; a fortilage; -- called also fortelace. 

FORTE:  Loudly; strongly; powerfully. 

FORTED:  Furnished with, or guarded by, forts; strengthened or defended, as by forts. [R.] Shak. 

FORTH:  Forth from; out of. [Archaic] Some forth their cabins peep. Donne. 

FORTH:  A way; a passage or ford. [Obs.] Todd. 

FORTHBY:  See Forby. 

FORTHCOMING:  Ready or about to appear; making appearance. 

FORTHGOING:  A going forth; an utterance. A. Chalmers. 

FORTHGOING:  Going forth. 

FORTHINK:  To repent; to regret; to be sorry for; to cause regret. [Obs.] "Let it forthink you." Tyndale. That me forthinketh, quod this January. Chaucer. 

FORTHPUTING:  Bold; forward; aggressive. 

FORTHRIGHT:  Straight forward; in a straight direction. [Archaic] Sir P. Sidney. 

FORTHRIGHT:  Direct; straightforward; as, a forthright man. [Archaic] Lowell. They were Night and Day, and Day and Night, Piligrims wight with steps forthright. Emerson. 

FORTHRIGHT:  A straight path. [Archaic] Here's a maze trod, indeed, Through forthrights and meanders! Shak. 

FORTHRIGHTNESS:  Straightforwardness; explicitness; directness. [Archaic] Dante's concise forthrightness of phrase. Hawthorne. 

FORTHWARD:  Forward. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher. 

FORTHWITH:  As soon as the thing required may be done by reasonable exertion confined to that object. Bouvier. 

FORTHY:  Therefore. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORTIES:  See Forty. 

FORTIETH:  One of forty equal parts into which one whole is divided; the quotient of a unit divided by forty; one next in order after the thirty-ninth. 

FORTIFIABLE:  Capable of being fortified. Johnson. 

FORTIFIER:  One who, or that which, fortifies, strengthens, supports, or upholds. 

FORTIFY:  To raise defensive works. Milton. 

FORTILAGE:  A little fort; a blockhouse. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORTIN:  A little fort; a fortlet. [Obs.] 

FORTISSIMO:  Very loud; with the utmost strength or loudness. 

FORTITION:  Casual choice; fortuitous selection; hazard. [R.] No mode of election operating in the spirit of fortition or rotation can be generally good. Burke. 

FORTITUDINOUS:  Having fortitude; courageous. [R.] Gibbon. 

FORTLET:  A little fort. [R.] Bailey. 

FORTNIGHT:  The space of fourteen days; two weeks. 

FORTNIGHTLY:  Occurring or appearing once in a fortnight; as, a fortnightly meeting of a club; a fortnightly magazine, or other publication.  -- adv.  Once in a fortnight; at intervals of a fortnight. 

FORTREAD:  To tread down; to trample upon. [Obs.] In hell shall they be all fortroden of devils. Chaucer. 

FORTRESS:  A fortified place; a large and permanent fortification, sometimes including a town; a fort; a castle; a stronghold; a place of defense or security.  Syn.  -- Fortress, Fortification, Castle, Citadel. A fortress is constructed for military purposes only, and is permanently garrisoned; a fortification is built to defend harbors, cities, etc.; a castle is a fortress of early times which was ordinarily a palatial dwelling; a citadel is the stronghold of a fortress or city, etc. 

FORTRESS:  To furnish with a fortress or with fortresses; to guard; to fortify. Shak. 

FORTUITOUS:  Happening independently of human will or means of foresight; resulting from unavoidable physical causes. Abbott.  Syn.  -- Accidental; casual; contingent; incidental. See Accidental.  -- For*tu"i*tous*ly, adv.  -- For*tu"i*tous*ness, n. 

FORTUITY:  Accident; chance; casualty. D. Forbes (1750). 

FORTUNATELY:  In a fortunate manner; luckily; successfully; happily. 

FORTUNATENESS:  The condition or quality of being fortunate; good luck; success; happiness. 

FORTUNE:  To fall out; to happen. It fortuned the same night that a Christian, serving a Turk in the camp, secretely gave the watchmen warning. Knolles. 

FORTUNELESS:  Luckless; also, destitute of a fortune or portion. Spenser. 

FORTUNIZE:  To regulate the fortune of; to make happy. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORTY:  Four times ten; thirtynine and one more. 

FORTY:  One of those who went to California in the rush for gold in 1849; an argonaut. [Colloq., U. S.]  FORTY-SPOT For"ty-spot`, n. (Zoöl.)  The Tasmanian forty-spotted diamond bird (Pardalotus quadragintus). 

FORWAKED:  Tired out with excessive waking or watching. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORWANDER:  To wander away; to go astray; to wander far and to weariness. [Obs.] 

FORWARD:  An agreement; a covenant; a promise. [Obs.] Tell us a tale anon, as forward is. Chaucer.  FORWARD; FORWARDS For"ward, For"wards, adv. Etym: [AS. forweard, foreweard; for, fore + -weardes; akin to G. vorwärts. The s is properly a genitive ending. See For, Fore, and -ward, -wards.]  Toward a part or place before or in front; onward; in advance; progressively; -- opposed to backward. 

FORWARDER:  One employed in forwarding. 

FORWARDING:  The process of putting a book into its cover, and making it ready for the finisher. 

FORWARDLY:  Eagerly; hastily; obtrusively. 

FORWARDNESS:  The quality of being forward; cheerful readiness; promtness; as, the forwardness of Christians in propagating the gospel.  2. An advanced stage of progress or of preparation; advancement; as, his measures were in great forwardness. Robertson.  3. Eagerness; ardor; as, it is difficult to restrain the forwardness of youth.  3. Boldness; confidence; assurance; want of due reserve or modesty. In France it is usual to bring children into company, and cherish in them, from their infancy, a kind of forwardness and assurance. Addison.  5. A state of advance beyond the usual degree; prematureness; precocity; as, the forwardnessof spring or of corn; the forwardness of a pupil. He had such a dexterous proclivity, as his teachers were fain to restrain his forwardness. Sir H. Wotton.  Syn.  -- Promptness; promptitude; eagerness; ardor; zeal; assurance; confidence; boldness; impudence; presumption. 

FORWARDS:  Same as Forward. 

FORWASTE:  To desolate or lay waste utterly. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORWEARY:  To weary extremely; to dispirit. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FORWEEP:  To weep much. [Obs.] 

FORWETE:  See Forewite. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORWHY:  Wherefore; because. [Obs.] 

FORWORN:  Much worn. [Obs.] A silly man, in simple weeds forworn. Spenser. 

FORWOT:  pres. indic. 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forwete. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORWRAP:  To wrap up; to conceal. [Obs.] All mote be said and nought excused, nor hid, nor forwrapped. Chaucer. 

FORYELDE:  To repay; to requite. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORYETE:  To forget. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FORYETTEN:  p. p. of Foryete. Chaucer. 

FORZANDO:  See Sforzato. 

FOSSA:  A pit, groove, cavity, or depression, of greater or less depth; as, the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; the nasal fossæ containing the nostrils in most birds. 

FOSSANE:  A species of civet (Viverra fossa) resembling the genet. 

FOSSE:  A ditch or moat.  2. (Anat.)  See Fossa. Fosse road. See Fosseway. 

FOSSET:  A faucet. [Obs.] Shak. 

FOSSETTE:  A small, deep-centered ulcer of the transparent cornea. 

FOSSEWAY:  One of the great military roads constructed by the Romans in England and other parts of Europe; -- so called from the fosse or ditch on each side for keeping it dry. 

FOSSICK:  To search for gold by picking at stone or earth or among roots in isolated spots, picking over abandoned workings, etc.; hence, to steal gold or auriferous matter from another's claim. [Australia]  2.  To search about; to rummage.  A man who has fossicked in nature's byways. D. Macdonald. 

FOSSIL:  Like or pertaining to fossils; contained in rocks. whether petrified or not; as, fossil plants, shells. Fossil copal, a resinous substance, first found in the blue clay at Highgate, near London, and apparently a vegetable resin, partly changed by remaining in the earth.  -- Fossil cork, flax, paper, or wood, varieties of amianthus.  -- Fossil farina, a soft carbonate of lime.  -- Fossil ore, fossiliferous red hematite. Raymond. 

FOSSIL:  The remains of an animal or plant found in stratified rocks. Most fossils belong to extinct species, but many of the later ones belong to species still living.  3. A person whose views and opinions are extremely antiquated; one whose sympathies are with a former time rather than with the present. [Colloq.] 

FOSSILIFEROUS:  Containing or composed of fossils. 

FOSSILIFICATION:  The process of becoming fossil. 

FOSSILIST:  One who is versed in the science of fossils; a paleontologist. Joseph Black. 

FOSSILIZATION:  The process of converting, or of being converted, into a fossil. 

FOSSILIZED:  Converted into a fossil; antiquated; firmly fixed in views or opinions. A fossilized sample of confused provincialism. Earle. 

FOSSORES:  A group of hymenopterous insects including the sand wasps. They excavate cells in earth, where they deposit their eggs, with the bodies of other insects for the food of the young when hatched. [Written also Fossoria.] 

FOSSORIA:  See Fossores. 

FOSSORIAL:  Fitted for digging, adapted for burrowing or digging; as, a fossorial foot; a fossorial animal. 

FOSSORIOUS:  Adapted for digging; -- said of the legs of certain insects. 

FOSSULATE:  Having, or surrounded by, long, narrow depressions or furrows. 

FOSTER:  To be nourished or trained up together. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FOSTER:  Relating to nourishment; affording, receiving, or sharing nourishment or nurture; -- applied to father, mother, child, brother, etc., to indicate that the person so called stands in the relation of parent, child, brother, etc., as regards sustenance and nurture, but not by tie of blood. Foster babe, or child, an infant of child nursed by a woman not its mother, or bred by a man not its father.  -- Foster brother, Foster sister, one who is, or has been, nursed at the same breast, or brought up by the same nurse as another, but is not of the same parentage.  -- Foster dam, one who takes the place of a mother; a nurse. Dryden.  -- Foster earth, earth by which a plant is nourished, though not its native soil. J. Philips.  -- Foster father, a man who takes the place of a father in caring for a child. Bacon.  -- Foster land. (a) Land allotted for the maintenance of any one. [Obs.] (b) One's adopted country.  -- Foster lean Etym: [foster + AS. læn a loan See Loan.], remuneration fixed for the rearing of a foster child; also, the jointure of a wife. [Obs.] Wharton.  -- Foster mother, a woman who takes a mother's place in the nurture and care of a child; a nurse.  -- Foster nurse, a nurse; a nourisher. [R.] Shak.  -- Foster parent, a foster mother or foster father.  -- Foster son, a male foster child. 

FOSTER:  A forester. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FOSTER:  One who, or that which, fosters. 

FOSTERAGE:  The care of a foster child; the charge of nursing. Sir W. Raleigh. 

FOSTERER:  One who, or that which, fosters. 

FOSTERLING:  A foster child. 

FOSTERMENT:  Food; nourishment. [Obs.] 

FOSTRESS:  A woman who feeds and cherishes; a nurse. B. Jonson. 

FOTHER:  To stop (a leak in a ship at sea) by drawing under its bottom a thrummed sail, so that the pressure of the water may force it into the crack. Totten. 

FOTIVE:  Nourishing. [Obs.] T. Carew (1633). 

FOTMAL:  Seventy pounds of lead.  FOUCAULT CURRENT Fou`cault" cur`rent. [After J. B. L. Foucault (1819-68), French physicist.] (Elec.)  An eddy current.  FOUGADE; FOUGASSE Fou`gade", Fou`gasse", n. (Mil.)  A small mine, in the form of a well sunk from the surface of the ground, charged with explosive and projectiles. It is made in a position likely to be occupied by the enemy. 

FOUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Fight. 

FOUGHTEN:  p. p. of Fight. [Archaic] 

FOUL:  A bird. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FOUL:  To incrust (the bore of a gun) with burnt powder in the process of firing.  3. To cover (a ship's bottom) with anything that impered its sailing; as, a bottom fouled with barnacles.  4. To entangle, so as to impede motion; as, to foul a rope or cable in paying it out; to come into collision with; as, one boat fouled the other in a race. 

FOUL:  See Foul ball, under Foul, a. 

FOULARD:  A thin, washable material of silk, or silk and cotton, originally imported from India, but now also made elsewhere. 

FOULDER:  To flash, as lightning; to lighten; to gleam; to thunder. [Obs.] "Flames of fouldering heat." Spenser. 

FOULE:  Foully. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FOULLY:  In a foul manner; filthily; nastily; shamefully; unfairly; dishonorably. I foully wronged him; do forgive me, do. Gay.  FOUL-MOUTHED Foul"-mouthed`, a.  Using language scurrilous, opprobrious, obscene, or profane; abusive. So foul-mouthed a witness never appeared in any cause. Addison. 

FOULNESS:  The quality or condition of being foul.  FOUL-SPOKEN Foul"-spo`ken, a.  Using profane, scurrilous, slanderous, or obscene language. Shak. 

FOUMART:  The European polecat; -- called also European ferret, and fitchew. See Polecat. [Written also foulmart, foulimart, and fulimart.] 

FOUND:  imp. & p. p. of Find. 

FOUND:  To form by melting a metal, and pouring it into a mold; to cast. "Whereof to found their engines." Milton. 

FOUND:  A thin, single-cut file for combmakers. 

FOUNDATION:  The lowest and supporting part or member of a wall, including the base course (see Base course (a), under Base, n.) and footing courses; in a frame house, the whole substructure of masonry.  4. A donation or legacy appropriated to support a charitable institution, and constituting a permanent fund; endowment. He was entered on the foundation of Westminster. Macaulay.  5. That which is founded, or established by endowment; an endowed institution or charity. Against the canon laws of our foundation. Milton. Foundation course. See Base course, under Base, n.  -- Foundation muslin, an open-worked gummed fabric used for stiffening dresses, bonnets, etc.  -- Foundation school, in England, an endowed school.  -- To be on a foundation, to be entitled to a support from the proceeds of an endowment, as a scholar or a fellow of a college. 

FOUNDATIONER:  One who derives support from the funds or foundation of a college or school. [Eng.] 

FOUNDATIONLESS:  Having no foundation. 

FOUNDER:  One who founds, establishes, and erects; one who lays a foundation; an author; one from whom anything originates; one who endows. 

FOUNDER:  One who founds; one who casts metals in various forms; a caster; as, a founder of cannon, bells, hardware, or types. Fonder's dust. Same as Facing, 4.  -- Founder's sand, a kind of sand suitable for purposes of molding. 

FOUNDER:  To become filled with water, and sink, as a ship.  2. To fall; to stumble and go lame, as a horse. For which his horse fearé gan to turn, And leep aside, and foundrede as he leep. Chaucer.  3. To fail; to miscarry. "All his tricks founder." Shak. 

FOUNDER:  To cause internal inflammation and soreness in the feet or limbs of (a horse), so as to disable or lame him. 

FOUNDEROUS:  Difficult to travel; likely to trip one up; as, a founderous road. [R.] Burke. 

FOUNDERSHAFT:  The first shaft sunk. Raymond. 

FOUNDERY:  Same as Foundry. 

FOUNDING:  The art of smelting and casting metals. 

FOUNDLING:  A deserted or exposed infant; a child found without a parent or owner. Foundling hospital, a hospital for foundlings. 

FOUNDRESS:  A female founder; a woman who founds or establishes, or who endows with a fund. 

FOUNT:  A font. 

FOUNT:  A fountain. 

FOUNTAINLESS:  Having no fountain; destitute of springs or sources of water. Barren desert, fountainless and dry. Milton. 

FOUNTFUL:  Full of fountains. Pope. 

FOUR:  One more than three; twice two. 

FOUR:  A trickly fellow; a cheat. [Obs.] Evelyn. Denham. 

FOURCHE:  Having the ends forked or branched, and the ends of the branches terminating abruptly as if cut off; -- said of an ordinary, especially of a cross. 

FOURCHETTE:  An instrument used to raise and support the tongue during the cutting of the frænum.  4. (Glove Making)  The forked piece between two adjacent fingers, to which the front and back portions are sewed. Knight.  FOUR-CORNERED Four"-cor`nered, a.  Having four corners or angles.  FOUR-CYCLE Four"-cy`cle, n. (Thermodynamics)  A four-stroke cycle, as the Otto cycle, for an internal- combustion engine. -- Four"-cy`cle, a. 

FOURDRINIER:  A machine used in making paper; -- so named from an early inventor of improvements in this class of machinery. 

FOURFOLD:  Four times; quadruple; as, a fourfold division. He snall restore the lamb fourfold. 2 Sam. xii. 6. 

FOURFOLD:  Four times as many or as much. 

FOURFOLD:  To make four times as much or as many, as an assessment,; to quadruple. 

FOURFOOTED:  Having four feet; quadruped; as, fourfooted beasts. 

FOURIERISM:  The coöperative socialistic system of Charles Fourier, a Frenchman, who recommended the reorganization of society into small communities, living in common.  FOURIERIST; FOURIERITE Fou"ri*er*ist, Fou"ri*er*ite, n.  One who adopts the views of Fourier.  FOUR-IN-HAND Four"-in-hand, a.  Consisting of four horses controlled by one person; as, a four- in-hand team; drawn by four horses driven by one person; as, a four- in-hand coach.  -- n.  A team of four horses driven by one person; also, a vehicle drawn by such a team. As quaint a four-in-hand As you shall see. Tennyson. 

FOURLING:  A compound or twin crystal consisting of four individuals. 

FOURNEAU:  The chamber of a mine in which the powder is placed.  FOUR-O'CLOCK Four"-o'clock`, n.  1. (Bot.)  A plant of the genus Mirabilis. There are about half a dozen species, natives of the warmer parts of America. The common four- o'clock is M. Jalapa. Its flowers are white, yellow, and red, and open toward sunset, or earlier in cloudy weather; hence the name. It is also called marvel of Peru, and afternoon lady.  2. (Zoöl.)  The friar bird; -- so called from its cry, which resembles these words. 

FOURPENCE:  A large bedstead with tall posts at the corners to support curtains. [Colloq.] 

FOURRIER:  A harbinger. [Obs.] 

FOURSCORE:  Four times twenty; eighty. 

FOURSCORE:  The product of four times twenty; eighty units or objects. 

FOURSOME:  Consisting of four; requiring four participants. [Scot. or Golf] 

FOURSOME:  A game between four players, with two on each side and each side playing but one ball, the partners striking alternately. It is called a mixed foursome when each side consists of a man and a woman. 

FOURSQUARE:  Having four sides and four equal angles. Sir W. Raleigh. 

FOURTEEN:  Four and ten more; twice seven. 

FOURTEENTH:  The octave of the seventh. 

FOURTH:  The interval of two tones and a semitone, embracing four diatonic degrees of the scale; the subdominant of any key. The Fourth, specifically, un the United States, the fourth day of July, the anniversary of the declaration of American independence; as, to celebrate the Fourth. 

FOURTHLY:  In the fourth place.  FOUR-WAY Four"-way`, a.  Allowing passage in either of four directions; as, a four-way cock, or valve. Francis. Four-way cock, a cock connected with four pipes or ports, and having two or more passages in the plug, by which the adjacent pipes or ports may be made to communicate; formerly used as a valve in the steam engine, and now for various other purposes. In the illustration, a leads to the upper end of a steam engine cylinder, and b to the lower end; c is the steam pipe, and d the exhaust pipe.  FOUR-WHEELED Four"-wheeled`, a.  Having four wheels.  FOUR-WHEELER Four"-wheel`er, n.  A vehicle having four wheels. [Colloq.] 

FOUSSA:  A viverrine animal of Madagascar (Cryptoprocta ferox). It resembles a cat in size and form, and has retractile claws. 

FOUTER:  A despicable fellow. [Prov. Eng.] Brockett. 

FOUTRA:  A fig; -- a word of contempt. [Obs.] A foutra for the world and wordlings base! Shak. 

FOUTY:  Despicable. [Obs.] 

FOVEA:  A slight depression or pit; a fossa. 

FOVEATE:  Having pits or depressions; pitted. 

FOVEOLA:  A small depression or pit; a fovea. 

FOVEOLATE:  Having small pits or depression, as the receptacle in some composite flowers. 

FOVEOLATED:  Foveolate. 

FOVILLA:  One of the fine granules contained in the protoplasm of a pollen grain. 

FOWL:  To catch or kill wild fowl, for game or food, as by shooting, or by decoys, nets, etc. Such persons as may lawfully hunt, fish, or fowl. Blackstone. Fowling piece, a light gun with smooth bore, adapted for the use of small shot in killing birds or small quadrupeds. 

FOWLER:  A sportsman who pursues wild fowl, or takes or kills for food. 

FOWLERITE:  A variety of rhodonite, from Franklin Furnace, New Jersey, containing some zinc.  FOWLER'S SOLUTION Fow"ler's so*lu"tion  . An Fowler, an English physician who first brought it into use. 

FOX:  A carnivorous animal of the genus Vulpes, family Canidæ, of many species. The European fox (V. vulgaris or V. vulpes), the American red fox (V. fulvus), the American gray fox (V. Virginianus), and the arctic, white, or blue, fox (V. lagopus) are well-known species.  Note: The black or silver-gray fox is a variety of the American red fox, producing a fur of great value; the cross-gray and woods-gray foxes are other varieties of the same species, of less value. The common foxes of Europe and America are very similar; both are celebrated for their craftiness. They feed on wild birds, poultry, and various small animals. Subtle as the fox for prey. Shak.  2. (Zoöl.)  The European dragonet.  3. (Zoöl.)  The fox shark or thrasher shark; -- called also sea fox. See Thrasher shark, under Shark.  4. A sly, cunning fellow. [Colloq.] We call a crafty and cruel man a fox. Beattie.  5. (Naut.)  Rope yarn twisted together, and rubbed with tar; -- used for seizings or mats.  6. A sword; -- so called from the stamp of a fox on the blade, or perhaps of a wolf taken for a fox. [Obs.] Thou diest on point of fox. Shak.  7. pl. (Enthnol.)  A tribe of Indians which, with the Sacs, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin; -- called also Outagamies. Fox and geese. (a) A boy's game, in which one boy tries to catch others as they run one goal to another. (b) A game with sixteen checkers, or some substitute for them, one of which is called the fox, and the rest the geese; the fox, whose first position is in the middle of the board, endeavors to break through the line of the geese, and the geese to pen up the fox.  -- Fox bat (Zoöl.), a large fruit bat of the genus Pteropus, of many species, inhabiting Asia, Africa, and the East Indies, esp. P. medius of India. Some of the species are more than four feet across the outspread wings. See Fruit bat.  -- Fox bolt, a bolt having a split end to receive a fox wedge.  -- Fox brush (Zoöl.), the tail of a fox.  -- Fox evil, a disease in which the hair falls off; alopecy.  -- Fox grape (Bot.), the name of two species of American grapes. The northern fox grape (Vitis Labrusca) is the origin of the varieties called Isabella, Concord, Hartford, etc., and the southern fox grape (Vitis vulpina) has produced the Scuppernong, and probably the Catawba.  -- Fox hunter. (a) One who pursues foxes with hounds. (b) A horse ridden in a fox chase.  -- Fox shark (Zoöl.), the thrasher shark. See Thrasher shark, under Thrasher.  -- Fox sleep, pretended sleep.  -- Fox sparrow (Zoöl.), a large American sparrow (Passerella iliaca); -- so called on account of its reddish color.  -- Fox squirrel (Zoöl.), a large North American squirrel (Sciurus niger, or S. cinereus). In the Southern States the black variety prevails; farther north the fulvous and gray variety, called the cat squirrel, is more common.  -- Fox terrier (Zoöl.), one of a peculiar breed of terriers, used in hunting to drive foxes from their holes, and for other purposes. There are rough- and smooth-haired varieties.  -- Fox trot, a pace like that which is adopted for a few steps, by a horse, when passing from a walk into a trot, or a trot into a walk.  -- Fox wedge (Mach. & Carpentry), a wedge for expanding the split end of a bolt, cotter, dowel, tenon, or other piece, to fasten the end in a hole or mortise and prevent withdrawal. The wedge abuts on the bottom of the hole and the piece is driven down upon it. Fastening by fox wedges is called foxtail wedging.  -- Fox wolf (Zoöl.), one of several South American wild dogs, belonging to the genus Canis. They have long, bushy tails like a fox. 

FOX:  To turn sour; -- said of beer, etc., when it sours in fermenting. 

FOXEARTH:  A hole in the earth to which a fox resorts to hide himself. 

FRACAS:  An uproar; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl. 

FOXERY:  Behavior like that of a fox; [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FOXES:  See Fox, n., 7. 

FOXGLOVE:  Any plant of the genus Digitalis. The common English foxglove (Digitalis purpurea) is a handsome perennial or biennial plant, whose leaves are used as a powerful medicine, both as a sedative and diuretic. See Digitalis. Pan through the pastures oftentimes hath run To pluck the speckled foxgloves from their stem. W. Browne. 

FOXHOUND:  One of a special breed of hounds used for chasing foxes.  FOX-HUNTING Fox"-hunt`ing, a.  Pertaining to or engaged in the hunting of foxes; fond of hunting foxes. 

FOXISH:  Foxlike. [Obs.] 

FOXLIKE:  Resembling a fox in his characteristic qualities; cunning; artful; foxy. 

FOXLY:  Foxlike. [Obs.] "Foxly craft." Latimer. 

FOXSHIP:  Foxiness; craftiness. [R.] Shak. 

FOXTAIL:  The name of several kinds of grass having a soft dense head of flowers, mostly the species of Alopecurus and Setaria.  3. (Metal.)  The last cinders obtained in the fining process. Raymond. Foxtail saw, a dovetail saw.  -- Foxtail wedging. See Fox wedge, under Fox. 

FOYSON:  See Foison. 

FOZINESS:  The state of being fozy; spiritlessness; dullness. [Scot.] [The Whigs'] foziness can no longer be concealed. Blackwood's. 

FOZY:  Spongy; soft; fat and puffy. [Scot.] 

FRA:  Fro. [Old Eng. & Scot.] 

FRA:  Brother; -- a title of a monk of friar; as, Fra Angelo. Longfellow. 

FRAB:  To scold; to nag. [Prov. Eng.] 

FRABBIT:  Crabbed; peevish. [Prov. Eng.] 

FRACHO:  A shallow iron pan to hold glass ware while being annealed. 

FRACID:  Rotten from being too ripe; overripe. [Obs.] Blount. 

FRACT:  To break; to violate. [Obs.] Shak. 

FRACTED:  Having a part displaced, as if broken; -- said of an ordinary. Macaulay. 

FRACTION:  One or more aliquot parts of a unit or whole number; an expression for a definite portion of a unit or magnitude. Common, or Vulgar, fraction, a fraction in which the number of equal parts into which the integer is supposed to be divided is indicated by figures or letters, called the denominator, written below a line, over which is the numerator, indicating the number of these parts included in the fraction; as -- Complex fraction, a fraction having a fraction or mixed number in the numerator or denominator, or in both. Davies & Peck.  -- Compound fraction, a fraction of a fraction; two or more fractions connected by of.  -- Continued fraction, Decimal fraction, Partial fraction, etc. See under Continued, Decimal, Partial, etc.  -- Improper fraction, a fraction in which the numerator is greater than the denominator.  -- Proper fraction, a fraction in which the numerator is less than the denominator. 

FRACTION:  To separate by means of, or to subject to, fractional distillation or crystallization; to fractionate; -- frequently used with out; as, to fraction out a certain grade of oil from pretroleum. 

FRACTIONALLY:  By fractions or separate portions; as, to distill a liquid fractionally, that is, so as to separate different portions. 

FRACTIONARY:  Fractional. [Obs.] 

FRACTIONATE:  To separate into different portions or fractions, as in the distillation of liquids. 

FRACTIOUS:  Apt to break out into a passion; apt to scold; cross; snappish; ugly; unruly; as, a fractious man; a fractious horse.  Syn.  -- Snappish; peevish; waspish; cross; irritable; perverse; pettish.  -- Frac"tious*ly, v.  -- Frac"tious*ness, n. 

FRACTURAL:  Pertaining to, or consequent on, a fracture. [R.] 

FRACTURE:  The breaking of a bone.  3. (Min.)  The texture of a freshly broken surface; as, a compact fracture; an even, hackly, or conchoidal fracture. Comminuted fracture (Surg.), a fracture in which the bone is broken into several parts.  -- Complicated fracture (Surg.), a fracture of the bone combined with the lesion of some artery, nervous trunk, or joint.  -- Compound fracture (Surg.), a fracture in which there is an open wound from the surface down to the fracture.  -- Simple fracture (Surg.), a fracture in which the bone only is ruptured. It does not communicate with the surface by an open wound.  Syn.  -- Fracture, Rupture. These words denote different kinds of breaking, according to the objects to which they are applied. Fracture is applied to hard substances; as, the fracture of a bone. Rupture is oftener applied to soft substances; as, the rupture of a blood vessel. It is also used figuratively. "To be an enemy and once to have been a friend, does it not embitter the rupture" South. 

FRACTURE:  To cause a fracture or fractures in; to break; to burst asunder; to crack; to separate the continuous parts of; as, to fracture a bone; to fracture the skull. 

FRAENULUM:  A frænum.  FRAENUM; FRENUM Fræ"num, or; Fre"num, n.; pl. E. Frænums, L. Fræna. Etym: [L., a bridle.] (Anat.)  A connecting fold of membrane serving to support or restrain any part; as, the frænum of the tongue. 

FRAGILE:  Easily broken; brittle; frail; delicate; easily destroyed. The state of ivy is tough, and not fragile. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Brittle; infirm; weak; frail; frangible; slight.  -- Frag"ile*ly, adv. 

FRAGMENT:  A part broken off; a small, detached portion; an imperfect part; as, a fragment of an ancient writing. Gather up the fragments that remain. John vi. 12. 

FRAGMENTAL:  Consisting of the pulverized or fragmentary material of rock, as conglomerate, shale, etc. 

FRAGMENTAL:  A fragmentary rock. 

FRAGMENTARILY:  In a fragmentary manner; piecemeal. 

FRAGMENTARINESS:  The quality or property of being in fragnebts, or broken pieces, incompleteness; want of continuity. G. Eliot. 

FRAGMENTARY:  Composed of the fragments of other rocks. 

FRAGMENTED:  Broken into fragments. 

FRAGMENTIST:  A writer of fragments; as, the fragmentist of Wolfenbüttel. [R.] 

FRAGOR:  A strong or sweet scent. [Obs. & Illegitimate.] Sir T. Herbert.  FRAGRANCE; FRAGRANCY Fra"grance, Fra"gran*cy, n. Etym: [L. fragrantia: cf. OF. fragrance.]  The quality of being fragrant; sweetness of smell; a sweet smell; a pleasing odor; perfume. Eve separate he spies, Veiled in a cloud of fragrance. Milton. The goblet crowned, Breathed aromatic fragrancies around. Pope. 

FRAGRANT:  [fragrans. -antis, p.pr. of fragrare to emit a smell of fragrance: cf. OF. fragrant. Affecting the olfactory nerves agreeably; sweet of smell; odorous; having or emitting an agreeable perfume. Fragrant the fertile earth After soft showers. Milton.  Syn.  -- Sweet-smelling; odorous; odoriferous; swetacented; redolent; ambrosial; balmy; spicy; aromatic.  -- Fra"grant*ly, adv. 

FRAIGHT:  Same as Fraught. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FRAIL:  A basket made of rushes, used chiefly for containing figs and raisins.  2. The quantity of raisins -- about thirty-two, fifty-six, or seventy-five pounds, -- contained in a frail.  3. A rush for weaving baskets. Johnson. 

FRAILLY:  Weakly; infirmly. 

FRAILNESS:  Frailty. 

FRAISCHEUR:  Freshness; coolness. [R.] Dryden. 

FRAISE:  A large and thick pancake, with slices of bacon in it. [Obs.] Johnson. 

FRAISE:  A defense consisting of pointed stakes driven into the ramparts in a horizontal or inclined position.  2. (Mech.)  A fluted reamer for enlarging holes in stone; a small milling cutter. 

FRAISE:  To protect, as a line of troops, against an onset of cavalry, by opposing bayonets raised obliquely forward. Wilhelm. 

FRAISED:  Fortified with a fraise. 

FRAKEN:  A freckle. [Obs.] A few fraknes in his face. Chaucer. 

FRAMABLE:  Capable of being framed. 

FRAMBAESIA:  The yaws. See Yaws. 

FRAME:  To construct by fitting and uniting the several parts of the skeleton of any structure; specifically, in woodwork, to put together by cutting parts of one member to fit parts of another. See Dovetail, Halve, v. t., Miter, Tenon, Tooth, Tusk, Scarf, and Splice.  2. To originate; to plan; to devise; to contrive; to compose; in a bad sense, to invent or fabricate, as something false. How many excellent reasonings are framed in the mind of a man of wisdom and study in a length of years. I. Watts.  3. To fit to something else, or for some specific end; to adjust; to regulate; to shape; to conform. And frame my face to all occasions. Shak. We may in some measure frame our minds for the reception of happiness. Landor. The human mind is framed to be influenced. I. Taylor.  4. To cause; to bring about; to produce. [Obs.] Fear frames disorder, and disorder wounds. Shak.  5. To support. [Obs. & R.] That on a staff his feeble steps did frame. Spenser.  6. To provide with a frame, as a picture. 

FRAME:  A term applied, especially in England, to certain machines built upon or within framework; as, a stocking frame; lace frame; spinning frame, etc.  5. Form; shape; proportion; scheme; structure; constitution; system; as, a frameof government. She that hath a heart of that fine frame To pay this debt of love but to a brother. Shak. Put your discourse into some frame. Shak.  6. Particular state or disposition, as of the mind; humor; temper; mood; as, to be always in a happy frame.  7. Contrivance; the act of devising or scheming. [Obs.] John the bastard Whose spirits toil in frame of villainies. Shak. Balloon frame, Cant frames, etc. See under Balloon, Cant, etc.  -- Frame building or house, a building of which the form and support is made of framed timbers. [U.S.] -- Frame level, a mason's level.  -- Frame saw, a thin saw stretched in a frame to give it rigidity. 

FRAMER:  One who frames; as, the framer of a building; the framers of the Constitution.  FRAME-UP Frame"-up`, n.  A conspiracy or plot, esp. for a malicious or evil purpose, as to incriminate a person on false evidence. [Slang] 

FRAMING:  A framework, or a sy Framing chisel (Carp.), a heavy chisel with a socket shank for making mortises.  FRAMPEL; FRAMPOID Fram"pel, Fram"poid, a. Etym: [Also written frampul, frampled, framfold.] Etym: [Cf. W. fframfol passionate, ffrom angry, fretting; or perh. akin to E. frump.]  Peevish; cross; vexatious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Shak. Is Pompey grown so malapert, so frampel Beau. & Fl. 

FRANC:  A silver coin of France, and since 1795 the unit of the French monetary system. It has been adopted by Belgium and Swizerland. It is equivalent to about nineteen cents, or ten pence, and is divided into 100 centimes. 

FRANCHISE:  A particular privilege conferred by grant from a sovereign or a government, and vested in individuals; an imunity or exemption from ordinary jurisdiction; a constitutional or statutory right or privilege, esp. the right to vote. Election by universal suffrage, as modified by the Constitution, is the one crowning franchise of the American people. W. H. Seward.  3. The district or jurisdiction to which a particular privilege extends; the limits of an immunity; hence, an asylum or sanctuary. Churches and mobasteries in Spain are franchises for criminals. London Encyc.  4. Magnanimity; generosity; liberality; frankness; nobility. "Franchise in woman." [Obs.] Chaucer. Elective franchise, the privilege or right of voting in an election of public officers. 

FRANCHISE:  To make free; to enfranchise; to give liberty to. Shak. 

FRANCHISEMENT:  Release; deliverance; freedom. Spenser. 

FRANCIC:  Pertaining to the Franks, or their language; Frankish. 

FRANCISCAN:  Belonging to the Order of St. Francis of the Franciscans. Franciscan Brothers, pious laymen who devote themselves to useful works, such as manual labor schools, and other educational institutions; -- called also Brothers of the Third Order of St. Francis.  -- Franciscan Nuns, nuns who follow the rule of t. Francis, esp. those of the Second Order of St. Francis, -- called also Poor Clares or Minoresses.  -- Franciscan Tertiaries, the Third Order of St. Francis. 

FRANCISCAN:  A monk or friar of the Order of St. Francis, a large and zealous order of mendicant monks founded in 1209 by St. Francis of Assisi. They are called also Friars Minor; and in England, Gray Friars, because they wear a gray habit. 

FRANCOLIN:  A spurred partidge of the genus Francolinus and allied genera, of Asia and Africa. The common species (F. vulgaris) was formerly common in southern Europe, but is now nearly restricted to Asia. 

FRANCOLITE:  A variety of apatite from Wheal Franco in Devonshire.  FRANC-TIREUR Franc"-ti`reur", n. [F., fr. franc free + tireur shooter, fr. tirer to shoot.] (Mil.)  A French partisan soldier, or one belonging to a corps of detached light troops engaged in forays, skirmishes, scouting, etc. 

FRANGENT:  Causing fracture; breaking. [R.] H. Walpole. 

FRANGIBILITY:  The state or quality of being frangible. Fox. 

FRANGIBLE:  Capable of being broken; brittle; fragile; easily broken. 

FRANGIPANE:  A perfume derived from, or imitating the odor of, the flower of the red jasmine, a West Indian tree of the genus Plumeria.  FRANGULIC; FRANGULINIC Fran*gu"lic, Fran`gu*lin"ic, a. (Chem.)  Pertaining to, or drived from, frangulin, or a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn. Frangulinic acid (Chem.), a yellow crystalline substance, resembling alizarin, and obtained by the decomposition of frangulin. 

FRANGULIN:  A yellow crystalline dyestuff, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn; -- called also rhamnoxanthin. 

FRANION:  A paramour; a loose woman; also, a gay, idle fellow. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FRANK:  A pigsty. [Obs.] 

FRANK:  To shut up in a frank or sty; to pen up; hence, to cram; to fatten. [Obs.] Shak. 

FRANK:  The common heron; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] 

FRANK:  The privilege of sending letters or other mail matter, free of postage, or without charge; also, the sign, mark, or signature denoting that a letter or other mail matter is to free of postage. I have said so much, that, if I had not a frank, I must burn my letter and begin again. Cowper. 

FRANK:  A member of one of the German tribes that in the fifth century overran and conquered Gaul, and established the kingdom of France.  2. A native or inhabitant of Western Europe; a European; -- a term used in the Levant.  3. A French coin. See Franc. 

FRANKALMOIGNE:  A tenure by which a religious corporation holds lands given to them and their successors forever, usually on condition of praying for the soul of the donor and his heirs; -- called also tenure by free alms. Burrill.  FRANK-CHASE Frank"-chase`, n. Etym: [Frank free + chase.] (Eng. Law)  The liberty or franchise of having a chase; free chase. Burrill.  FRANK-FEE Frank"-fee`, n. Etym: [Frank free + fee.] (Eng. Law)  A species of tenure in fee simple, being the opposite of ancient demesne, or copyhold. Burrill.  FRANKFORT BLACK Frank"fort black`  . A black pigment used in copperplate printing, prepared by burning vine twigs, the lees of wine, etc. McElrath. 

FRANKINCENSE:  A fragrant, aromatic resin, or gum resin, burned as an incense in religious rites or for medicinal fumigation. The best kinds now come from East Indian trees, of the genus Boswellia; a commoner sort, from the Norway spruce (Abies excelsa) and other coniferous trees. The frankincense of the ancient Jews is still unidentified. 

FRANKING:  A method of forming a joint at the intersection of window-sash bars, by cutting away only enough wood to show a miter. 

FRANKISH:  Like, or pertaining to, the Franks.  FRANK-LAW Frank"-law`, n. Etym: [Frank free + law.] (Eng. Law)  The liberty of being sworn in courts, as a juror or witness; one of the ancient privileges of a freeman; free and common law; -- an obsolete expression signifying substantially the same as the American expression civil rights. Abbot. 

FRANKLIN:  An English freeholder, or substantial householder. [Obs.] Chaucer. The franklin, a small landholder of those days. Sir J. Stephen. 

FRANKLINIC:  Of or pertaining to Benjamin Franklin. Franklinic electricity, electricity produced by friction; called also statical electricity. 

FRANKLINITE:  A kind of mineral of the spinel group.  FRANKLIN STOVE Frank"lin stove`  . A kind of open stove introduced by Benjamin Franklin, the peculiar feature of which was that a current of heated air was directly supplied to the room from an air box; -- now applied to other varieties of open stoves. 

FRANKLY:  In a frank manner; freely. Very frankly he confessed his treasons. Shak.  Syn.  -- Openly; ingenuously; plainly; unreservedly; undisguisedly; sincerely; candidly; artlessly; freely; readily; unhesitatingly; liberally; willingly.  FRANK-MARRIAGE Frank"-mar"riage, n. Etym: [Frank free + marriage.] (Eng. Law)  A certain tenure in tail special; an estate of inheritance given to a man his wife (the wife being of the blood of the donor), and descendible to the heirs of their two bodies begotten. [Obs.] Blackstone. 

FRANKNESS:  The quality of being frank; candor; openess; ingenuousness; fairness; liberality. 

FRANTIC:  Mad; raving; furious; violent; wild and disorderly; distracted. Die, frantic wretch, for this accursed deed! Shak. Torrents of frantic abuse. Macaulay. -- Fran"tic*al*ly, adv.  -- Fran"tic*ly, adv. Shak.  -- Fran"tic*ness, n. Johnson. 

FRAP:  To draw together; to bind with a view to secure and strengthen, as a vessel by passing cables around it; to tighten; as a tackle by drawing the lines together. Tottem.  2. To brace by drawing together, as the cords of a drum. Knoght. 

FRAPE:  A crowd, a rabble. [Obs.] ares. 

FRAPLER:  A blusterer; a rowdy. [Obs.] Unpolished, a frapler, and base. B. Jonson. 

FRAPPE:  Iced; frozen; artificially cooled; as, wine frappé. -- n.  A frappé mixture or beverage, as a water ice, variously flavored, frozen soft, and served in glasses. 

FRAPPING:  A lashing binding a thing tightly or binding things together. 

FRATER:  A monk; also, a frater house. [R.] Shipley. Frater house, an apartament in a convent used as an eating room; a refectory; -- called also a fratery. 

FRATERNAL:  Pf, pertaining to, or involving, brethren; becoming to brothers; brotherly; as, fraternal affection; a fraternal embrace.  -- Fra*ter"nal*ly, adv. An abhorred, a cursed, a fraternal war. Milton. Fraternal love and friendship. Addison. 

FRATERNATE:  To fraternize; to hold fellowship. Jefferson.  FRATERNATION; FRATERNISM Fra`ter*na"tion, Fra"ter*nism, n.  Fraternization. [R.] Jefferson. 

FRATERNIZATION:  The act of fraternizing or uniting as brothers. I hope that no French fraternization . . . could so change the hearts of Englishmen. Burke. 

FRATERNIZE:  To associate or hold fellowship as brothers, or as men of like occupation or character; to have brotherly feelings. 

FRATERNIZE:  To bring into fellowship or brotherly sympathy. Correspondence for fraternizing the two nations. Burke. 

FRATERNIZER:  One who fraternizes. Burke. 

FRATERY:  A frater house. See under Frater. 

FRATRAGE:  A sharing among brothers, or brothers' kin. [Obs.] Crabb. 

FRATRICIDAL:  Of or pertaining to fratricide; of the nature of fratricide. 

FRATRICIDE:  One who murders or kills his own brother. 

FRAU:  In Germany, a woman; a married woman; a wife; -- as a title, equivalent to Mrs., Madam. 

FRAUD:  An intentional perversion of truth for the purpose of obtaining some valuable thing or promise from another.  3. A trap or snare. [Obs.] To draw the proud King Ahab into fraud. Milton. Constructive fraud (Law), an act, statement, or omission which operates as a fraud, although perhaps not intended to be such. Mozley & W.  -- Pious fraud (Ch. Hist.), a fraud contrived and executed to benefit the church or accomplish some good end, upon the theory that the end justified the means.  -- Statute of frauds (Law), an English statute (1676), the principle of which is incorporated in the legislation of all the States of this country, by which writing with specific solemnities (varying in the several statutes) is required to give efficacy to certain dispositions of property. Wharton.  Syn.  -- Deception; deceit; guile; craft; wile; sham; strife; circumvention; stratagem; trick; imposition; cheat. See Deception. 

FRAUDFUL:  Full of fraud, deceit, or treachery; trickish; treacherous; fraudulent; -- applied to persons or things. I. Taylor.  -- Fraud"ful*ly, adv. 

FRAUDLESS:  Free from fraud.  -- Fraud"less*ly, adv.  -- Fraud"less*ness, n.  FRAUDULENCE; FRAUDULENCY Fraud"u*lence or Fraud"u*len*cy, n. Etym: [L. fraudulentia.]  The quality of being fraudulent; deliberate deceit; trickishness. Hooker. 

FRAUDULENTLY:  In a fraudulent manner. 

FRAUGHT:  A freight; a cargo. [Obs.] Shak. 

FRAUGHT:  Freighted; laden; filled; stored; charged. A vessel of our country richly fraught. Shak. A discourse fraught with all the commending excellences oSouth. Enterprises fraught with world-wide benefits. I. Taylor. 

FRAUGHT:  To freight; to load; to burden; to fill; to crowd. [Obs.] Upon the tumbling billows fraughted ride The armed ships. Fairfax. 

FRAUGHTAGE:  Freight; loading; cargo. [Obs.] Shak. 

FRAUGHTING:  Constituting the freight or cargo. [Obs.] "The fraughting souls within her." Shak. 

FRAULEIN:  In Germany, a young lady; an unmarried woman; -- as a title, equivalent to Miss.  FRAUNHOFER LINES Fraun"ho*fer lines`. (Physics.)  The lines of the spectrun; especially and properly, the dark lines of the solar spectrum, so called because first accurately observed and interpreted by Fraunhofer, a German physicist. 

FRAXIN:  A colorless crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and found in the bark of the ash (Fraxinus) and along with esculin in the bark of the horse-chestnut. It shows a delicate fluorescence in alkaline solutions; -- called also paviin. 

FRAXINUS:  A genus of deciduous forest trees, found in the north temperate zone, and including the true ash trees.  Note: Fraxinus excelsior is the European ash; F. Americana, the white ash; F. sambucifolia, the black ash or water ash. 

FRAY:  Affray; broil; contest; combat. Who began this bloody fray Shak. 

FRAY:  To frighten; to terrify; to alarm. I. Taylor. What frays ye, that were wont to comfort me affrayed Spenser. 

FRAY:  To bear the expense of; to defray. [Obs.] The charge of my most curious and costly ingredients frayed, I shall acknowledge myself amply satisfied. Massinger. 

FRAY:  To rub; to wear off, or wear into shreds, by rubbing; to fret, as cloth; as, a deer is said to fray her head. 

FRAY:  A fret or chafe, as in cloth; a place injured by rubbing. 

FRAYING:  The skin which a deer frays from his horns. B. Jonson. 

FRAZZLE:  To fray; to wear or pull into tatters or tag ends; to tatter; - -used literally and figuratively. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.]  Her hair was of a reddish gray color, and its frazzled and tangled condition suggested that the woman had recently passed through a period of extreme excitement. J. C. Harris. 

FRAZZLE:  The act or result of frazzling; the condition or quality of being frazzled; the tag end; a frayed-out end. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.]  My fingers are all scratched to frazzles. Kipling.  Gordon had sent word to Lee that he "had fought his corps to a frazzle." Nicolay & Hay (Life of Lincoln). 

FREAK:  To variegate; to checker; to streak. [R.] Freaked with many a mingled hue. Thomson. 

FREAK:  A sudden causeless change or turn of the mind; a whim of fancy; a capricious prank; a vagary or caprice. She is restless and peevish, and sometimes in a freak will instantly change her habitation. Spectator.  Syn.  -- Whim; caprice; folly; sport. See Whim. 

FREAKING:  Freakish. [Obs.] Pepys. 

FREAKISH:  Apt to change the mind suddenly; whimsical; capricious. It may be a question whether the wife or the woman was the more freakish of the two. L'Estrange. Freakish when well, and fretful when she's sick. Pope. -- Freak"ish*ly, adv.  -- Freak"ish*ness, n. 

FRECK:  To checker; to diversify. [R. & Poet.] The painted windows, frecking gloom with glow. Lowell. 

FRECKLE:  To spinkle or mark with freckle or small discolored spots; to spot. 

FRECKLE:  To become covered or marked with freckles; to be spotted. 

FRECKLED:  Marked with freckles; spotted. "The freckled trout." Dryden. The freckled cowslip, burnet, and green clover. Shak. 

FRECKLEDNESS:  The state of being freckled. 

FRECKLY:  Full of or marked with freckles; sprinkled with spots; freckled. 

FRED:  Peace; -- a word used in composition, especially in proper names; as, Alfred; Frederic. 

FREDSTOLE:  See Fridstol. Fuller. 

FREE:  Certain or honorable; the opposite of base; as, free service; free socage. Burrill.  18. (Law)  Privileged or individual; the opposite of common; as, a free fishery; a free warren. Burrill.  19. Not united or combined with anything else; separated; dissevered; unattached; at liberty to escape; as, free carbonic acid gas; free cells. Free agency, the capacity or power of choosing or acting freely, or without necessity or constraint upon the will.  -- Free bench (Eng. Law), a widow's right in the copyhold lands of her husband, corresponding to dower in freeholds.  -- Free board (Naut.), a vessel's side between water line and gunwale.  -- Free bond (Chem.), an unsaturated or unemployed unit, or bond, of affinity or valence, of an atom or radical.  -- Free-borough men (O.Eng. Law). See Friborg.  -- Free chapel (Eccles.), a chapel not subject to the jurisdiction of the ordinary, having been founded by the king or by a subject specially authorized. [Eng.] Bouvier.  -- Free charge (Elec.), a charge of electricity in the free or statical condition; free electricity.  -- Free church. (a) A church whose sittings are for all and without charge. (b) An ecclesiastical body that left the Church of Scotland, in 1843, to be free from control by the government in spiritual matters.  -- Free city, or Free town, a city or town independent in its government and franchises, as formerly those of the Hanseatic league.  -- Free cost, freedom from charges or expenses. South.  -- Free and easy, unconventional; unrestrained; regardless of formalities. [Colloq.] "Sal and her free and easy ways." W. Black.  -- Free goods, goods admitted into a country free of duty.  -- Free labor, the labor of freemen, as distinguished from that of slaves.  -- Free port. (Com.) (a) A port where goods may be received and shipped free of custom duty. (b) A port where goods of all kinds are received from ships of all nations at equal rates of duty.  -- Free public house, in England, a tavern not belonging to a brewer, so that the landlord is free to brew his own beer or purchase where he chooses. Simmonds.  -- Free school. (a) A school to which pupils are admitted without discrimination and on an equal footing. (b) A school supported by general taxation, by endowmants, etc., where pupils pay nothing for tuition; a public school.  -- Free services (O.Eng. Law), such feudal services as were not unbecoming the character of a soldier or a freemen to perform; as, to serve under his lord in war, to pay a sum of money, etc. Burrill.  -- Free ships, ships of neutral nations, which in time of war are free from capture even though carrying enemy's goods.  -- Free socage (O.Eng. Law), a feudal tenure held by certain services which, though honorable, were not military. Abbott.  -- Free States, those of the United States before the Civil War, in which slavery had ceased to exist, or had never existed.  -- Free stuff (Carp.), timber free from knots; clear stuff.  -- Free thought, that which is thought independently of the authority of others.  -- Free trade, commerce unrestricted by duties or tariff regulations.  -- Free trader, one who believes in free trade.  -- To make free with, to take liberties with; to help one's self to. [Colloq.] -- To sail free (Naut.), to sail with the yards not braced in as sharp as when sailing closehauled, or close to the wind. 

FREEBOOTER:  One who plunders or pillages without the authority of national warfare; a member of a predatory band; a pillager; a buccaneer; a sea robber. Bacon. 

FREEBOOTERY:  The act, practice, or gains of a freebooter; freebooting. Booth. 

FREEBOOTING:  Robbery; plunder; a pillaging. 

FREEBOOTING:  Acting the freebooter; practicing freebootery; robbing. Your freebooting acquaintance. Sir W. Scott. 

FREEBOOTY:  Freebootery. [Obs.] 

FREEBORN:  Born free; not born in vasssalage; inheriting freedom.  FREE COINAGE Free coinage.  In the fullest sense, the conversion of bullion (of any specified metal) into legal-tender coins for any person who chooses to bring it to the mint; in a modified sense, such coinage when done at a fixed charge proportionate to the cost of the operation.  FREE-DENIZEN Free"-den`i*zen, v. t.  To make free. [R.] 

FREEDMAN:  A man who has been a slave, and has been set free. 

FREEDSTOOL:  See Fridstol.  FREE-HAND Free"-hand`, a.  Done by the hand, without support, or the guidance of instruments; as, free-hand drawing. See under Drawing.  FREE-HANDED Free"-hand`ed, a.  Open-handed; liberal.  FREE-HEARTED Free"-heart`ed, a.  Open; frank; unreserved; liberal; generous; as, free-hearted mirth.  -- Free"-heart`ed*ly, adv.  -- Free"-heart`ed*ness, n. 

FREEHOLD:  An estate in real property, of inheritance (in fee simple or fee tail) or for life; or the tenure by which such estate is held. Kent. Burrill. To abate into a freehold. See under Abate. 

FREEHOLDER:  The possessor of a freehold.  FREE-LIVER Free"-liv`er, n.  One who gratifies his appetites without stint; one given to indulgence in eating and drinking.  FREE-LIVING Free"-liv`ing, n.  Unrestrained indulgence of the appetites.  FREE-LOVE Free"-love`, n.  The doctrine or practice of consorting with the opposite sex, at pleasure, without marriage.  FREE-LOVER Free"-lov`er, n.  One who believes in or practices free-love. 

FREELTE:  Frailty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FREELY:  In a free manner; without restraint or compulsion; abundantly; gratuitously. Of every tree of the garden thou mayst freely eat. Gen. ii. 16. Freely ye have received, freely give. Matt. x. 8. Freely they stood who stood, and fell who fell. Milton. Freely we serve Because we freely love. Milton.  Syn.  -- Independently; voluntarily; spontaneously; unconditionally; unobstructedly; willingly; readily; liberally; generously; bounteously; munificently; bountifully; abundantly; largely; copiously; plentifully; plenteously. 

FREEMAN:  An imperfect female calf, twinborn with a male. 

FREEMASON:  One of an ancient and secret association or fraternity, said to have been at first composed of masons or builders in stone, but now consisting of persons who are united for social enjoyment and mutual assistance. 

FREEMASONIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the institutions or the practices of freemasons; as, a freemasonic signal. 

FREEMASONRY:  The institutions or the practices of freemasons.  FREE-MILLING Free"-mill`ing, a.  Yielding free gold or silver; -- said of certain ores which can be reduced by crushing and amalgamation, without roasting or other chemical treatment. Raymond.  FREE-MINDED Free"-mind`ed, a.  Not perplexed; having a mind free from care. Bacon. 

FREENESS:  The state or quality of being free; freedom; liberty; openness; liberality; gratuitousness. 

FREER:  One who frees, or sets free.  FREE SILVER Free silver.  The free coinage of silver; often, specif., the free coinage of silver at a fixed ratio with gold, as at the ratio of 16 to 1, which ratio for some time represented nearly or exactly the ratio of the market values of gold and silver respectively.  FREE-SOIL Free"-soil`, a.  Pertaining to, or advocating, the non-extension of slavery; -- esp. applied to a party which was active during the period 1846-1856. [U.S.] -- Free"soil`er, n. [U.S.] -- Free"-soil`ism, n. [U.S.]  FREE-SPOKEN Free"-spo`ken, a.  Accustomed to speak without reserve. Bacon.  -- Free"-spo`ken-ness, n. 

FREESTONE:  A stone composed of sand or grit; -- so called because it is easily cut or wrought. 

FREESTONE:  Having the flesh readily separating from the stone, as in certain kinds of peaches.  FREE-SWIMMING Free"-swim`ming, a. (Zoöl.)  Swimming in the open sea; -- said of certain marine animals. 

FREETHINKER:  One who speculates or forms opinions independently of the authority of others; esp., in the sphere or religion, one who forms opinions independently of the authority of revelation or of the church; an unbeliever; -- a term assumed by deists and skeptics in the eighteenth century. Atheist is an old-fashioned word: I'm a freethinker, child. Addison.  Syn.  -- Infidel; skeptic; unbeliever. See Infidel. 

FREETHINKING:  Undue boldness of speculation; unbelief. Berkeley.  -- a.  Exhibiting undue boldness of speculation; skeptical.  FREE-TONGUED Free"-tongued`, a.  Speaking without reserve. Bp. Hall. 

FREEWHEEL:  A clutch fitted in the rear hub of a cycle, which engages the rear sprocket with the rear wheel when the pedals are rotated forwards, but permits the rear wheel to run on free from the rear sprocket when the pedals are stopped or rotated backwards. Freewheelcycles are usually fitted with hub brakes or rim brakes, operated by back pedaling. 

FREEWILL:  Of or pertaining to free will; voluntary; spontaneous; as, a freewill offering. Frewill Baptists. See under Baptist. 

FREEZABLE:  Capable of being frozen. 

FREEZE:  A frieze. [Obs.] 

FREEZE:  The act of congealing, or the state of being congealed. [Colloq.] 

FREEZER:  One who, or that which, cools or freezes, as a refrigerator, or the tub and can used in the process of freezing ice cream. 

FREEZING:  Tending to freeze; for freezing; hence, cold or distant in manner.  -- Frrez"ing*ly, adv. Freezing machine. See Ice machine, under Ice.  -- Freezing mixture, a mixture (of salt and snow or of chemical salts) for producing intense cold.  -- Freezing point, that degree of a thermometer at which a fluid begins to freeze; -- applied particularly to water, whose freezing point is at 32º Fahr., and at 0º Centigrade. 

FREIESLEBENITE:  A sulphide of antimony, lead, and silver, occuring in monoclinic crystals. 

FREIGHT:  Employed in the transportation of freight; having to do with freight; as, a freight car. Freight agent, a person employed by a transportation company to receive, forward, or deliver goods.  -- Freight car. See under Car.  -- Freight train, a railroad train made up of freight cars; -- called in England goods train. 

FREIGHT:  To load with goods, as a ship, or vehicle of any kind, for transporting them from one place to another; to furnish with freight; as, to freight a ship; to freight a car. 

FREIGHTLESS:  Destitute of freight. 

FREIHERR:  In Germany and Austria, a baron. 

FRELTE:  Frailty. [Obs.] Chaucer.  FREMD; FREMED Fremd, Frem"ed a. Etym: [OE., from AS. fremede, fremde; akin to G. fremd.]  Strange; foreign. [Old Eng. & Scot.] Chaucer. 

FREMESCENT:  Becoming murmurous, roaring. "Fremescent clangor." Carlyle. -- Fre*mes"cence (#), n. 

FREMITUS:  Palpable vibration or thrill; as, the rhonchial fremitus. 

FREN:  A stranger. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FRENCH:  Of or pertaining to France or its inhabitants. French bean (Bot.), the common kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris).  -- French berry (Bot.), the berry of a species of buckthorn (Rhamnus catharticus), which affords a saffron, green or purple pigment.  -- French casement (Arch.) See French window, under Window.  -- French chalk (Min.), a variety of granular talc; -- used for drawing lines on cloth, etc. See under Chalk.  -- French cowslip (Bot.) The Primula Auricula. See Bear's-ear.  -- French fake (Naut.), a mode of coiling a rope by running it backward and forward in parallel bends, so that it may run freely.  -- French honeysuckle (Bot.) a plant of the genus Hedysarum (H. coronarium); -- called also garland honeysuckle.  -- French horn, a metallic wind instrument, consisting of a long tube twisted into circular folds and gradually expanding from the mouthpiece to the end at which the sound issues; -- called in France cor de chasse.  -- French leave, an informal, hasty, or secret departure; esp., the leaving a place without paying one's debts.  -- French pie Etym: [French (here used in sense of "foreign") + pie a magpie (in allusion to its black and white color)] (Zoöl.), the European great spotted woodpecker (Dryobstes major); -- called also wood pie.  -- French polish. (a) A preparation for the surface of woodwork, consisting of gums dissolved in alcohol, either shellac alone, or shellac with other gums added. (b) The glossy surface produced by the application of the above.  -- French purple, a dyestuff obtained from lichens and used for coloring woolen and silken fabrics, without the aid of mordants. Ure.  -- French red rouge.  -- French rice, amelcorn.  -- French roof (Arch.), a modified form of mansard roof having a nearly flat deck for the upper slope.  -- French tub, a dyer's mixture of protochloride of tin and logwood; -- called also plum tub. Ure.  -- French window. See under Window. 

FRENCHIFY:  To make French; to infect or imbue with the manners or tastes of the French; to Gallicize. Burke. 

FRENCHISM:  A French mode or characteristic; an idiom peculiar to the French language. Earle. 

FRENCHMAN:  A native or one of the people of France. 

FRENETIC:  Distracted; mad; frantic; phrenetic. Milton. 

FRENETICAL:  Frenetic; frantic; frenzied.  -- Frenet"ic*al*ly, adv. 

FRENUM:  A cheek stripe of color.  2. (Anat.)  Same as Frænum. 

FRENZICAL:  Frantic. [Obs.] Orrery. 

FRENZIED:  Affected with frenzy; frantic; maddened.  -- Fren"zied-ly, adv. The people frenzied by centuries of oppression. Buckle. Up starting with a frenzied look. Sir W Scott. 

FRENZY:  Any violent agitation of the mind approaching to distraction; violent and temporary derangement of the mental faculties; madness; rage. All else is towering frenzy and distraction. Addison. The poet's eye in a fine frenzy rolling. Shak.  Syn.  -- Insanity; lunacy; madness; derangment; alienation; aberration; delirium. See Insanity. 

FRENZY:  Mad; frantic. [R.] They thought that some frenzy distemper had got into his head. Bunyan. 

FRENZY:  To affect with frenzy; to drive to madness [R.] "Frenzying anguish." Southey. 

FREQUENTABLE:  Accessible. [R.] Sidney. 

FREQUENTAGE:  The practice or habit of frequenting. [R.] Southey. 

FREQUENTATION:  The act or habit of frequenting or visiting often; resort. Chesterfield. 

FREQUENTATIVE:  Serving to express the frequent repetition of an action; as, a frequentative verb.  -- n.  A frequentative verb. 

FREQUENTER:  One who frequents; one who often visits, or resorts to customarily. 

FREQUENTLY:  At frequent or short intervals; many times; often; repeatedly; commonly. 

FREQUENTNESS:  The quality of being frequent. 

FRERE:  A friar. Chaucer. 

FRESCADE:  A cool walk; shady place. [R.] Maunder. 

FRESCO:  To paint in fresco, as walls. 

FRESH:  To refresh; to freshen. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

FRESHEN:  To relieve, as a rope, by change of place where friction wears it; or to renew, as the material used to prevent chafing; as, to freshen a hawse. Totten. To freshen ballast (Naut.), to shift Or restore it.  -- To freshen the hawse, to pay out a little more cable, so as to bring the chafe on another part.  -- To freshen the way, to increase the speed of a vessel. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

FRESHLY:  In a fresh manner; vigorously; newly, recently; brightly; briskly; coolly; as, freshly gathered; freshly painted; the wind blows freshly. Looks he as freshly as he did Shak. 

FRESHMAN:  novice; one in the rudiments of knowledge; especially, a student during his fist year in a college or university. He drank his glass and cracked his joke, And freshmen wondered as he spoke. Goldsmith. Freshman class, the lowest of the four classes in an American college. [ U. S.] 

FRESHMANSHIP:  The state of being a freshman. 

FRESHMENT:  Refreshment. [Obs.] 

FRESHNESS:  The state of being fresh. The Scots had the advantage both for number and freshness of men. Hayward. And breathe the freshness of the open air. Dryden. Her cheeks their freshness lose and wonted grace. Granville.  FRESH-NEW Fresh"-new`, a.  Unpracticed. [Obs.] Shak.  FRESH-WATER Fresh"-wa`ter, a.  1. Of, pertaining to, or living in, water not salt; as, fresh-water geological deposits; a fresh-water fish; fresh-water mussels.  2. Accustomed to sail on fresh water only; unskilled as a seaman; as, a fresh-water sailor.  3. Unskilled; raw. [Colloq.] "Fresh-water soldiers." Knolles.  FRESNEL LAMP; FRESNEL LANTERN Fres`nel" lamp", Fres`nel" lan"tern. Etym: [From Fresnel the inventor, a French physicist.]  A lantern having a lamp surrounded by a hollow cylindrical Fresnel lens.  FRESNEL LENS Fres`nel" lens". Etym: [See Fresnel lamp.] (Optics)  See under Lens. 

FRET:  See 1st Frith. 

FRET:  The worn sides of river banks, where ores, or stones containing them, accumulate by being washed down from the hills, and thus indicate to the miners the locality of the veins. 

FRET:  To ornament with raised work; to variegate; to diversify. Whose skirt with gold was fretted all about. Spenser. Yon gray lines, That fret the clouds, are messengers of day. Shak. 

FRET:  An ornament consisting of smmall fillets or slats intersecting each other or bent at right angles, as in classical designs, or at obilique angles, as often in Oriental art. His lady's cabinet is a adorned on the fret, ceiling, and chimney- piece with . . . carving. Evelyn.  3. The reticulated headdress or net, made of gold or silver wire, in which ladies in the Middle Ages confined their hair. A fret of gold she had next her hair. Chaucer. Fret saw, a saw with a long, narrow blade, used in cutting frets, scrolls, etc.; a scroll saw; a keyhole saw; a compass saw. 

FRET:  A saltire interlaced with a mascle.  2. (Mus.)  A short piece of wire, or other material fixed across the finger board of a guitar or a similar instrument, to indicate where the finger is to be placed. 

FRET:  To furnish with frets, as an instrument of music. 

FRETFUL:  Disposed to fret; ill-humored; peevish; angry; in a state of vexation; as, a fretful temper.  -- Fret"ful-ly, adv.  -- Fret"ful-ness, n.  Syn.  -- Peevish; ill-humored; ill-natured; irritable; waspish; captious; petulant; splenetic; spleeny; passionate; angry.  -- Fretful, Peevish, Cross. These words all indicate an unamiable working and expression of temper. Peevish marks more especially the inward spirit: a peevish man is always ready to find fault. Fretful points rather to the outward act, and marks a complaining impatience: sickly children are apt to be fretful. Crossness is peevishness mingled with vexation or anger. 

FRETT:  The worn side of the bank of a river. See 4th Fret, n., 4. 

FRETT:  A vitreous compound, used by potters in glazing, consisting of lime, silica, borax, lead, and soda. 

FRETTED:  Interlaced one with another; -- said of charges and ordinaries. 

FRETTEN:  Rubbed; marked; as, pock-fretten, marked with the smallpox. [Obs.] Wright. 

FRETTER:  One who, or that which, frets. 

FRETTY:  Adorned with fretwork. 

FRETUM:  A strait, or arm of the sea. 

FRETWORK:  Work adorned with frets; ornamental openwork or work in relief, esp. when elaborate and minute in its parts. Heuce, any minute play of light andshade, dark and light, or the like. Banqueting on the turf in the fretwork of shade and sunshine. Macaulay. 

FREYA:  The daughter of Njörd, aud goddess of love and beauty; the Scandinavian Venus; -- in Teutonic myths confounded with Frigga, but in Scandinavian, distinct. [Written also Frea, Fraying, and Ereyja.] 

FRIABIIITY:  The quality of being friable; friableness. Locke. 

FRIABLE:  [friabilis, fr. friare to rub, break, or crumble into small pieces, cf. fricare to rub, E. fray. cf. F. friable.) Easily crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder. "Friable ground." Evelyn. "Soft and friable texture." Paley.  -- Fri'a-ble-ness, n. 

FRIAR:  A brother or member of any religious order, but especially of one of the four mendicant orders, viz: (a) Minors, Gray Friars, or Franciscans. (b) Augustines. (c) Dominicans or Black Friars. (d) White Friars or Carmelites. See these names in the Vocabulary.  2. (Print.)  A white or pale patch on a printed page.  3. (Zoöl.)  An American fish; the silversides. Friar bird (Zoöl.), an Australian bird (Tropidorhynchus corniculatus), having the head destitute of feathers; -- called also coldong, leatherhead, pimlico; poor soldier, and four-o'clock. The name is also applied to several other species of the same genus.  -- Friar's balsam (Med.), a stimulating application for wounds and ulcers, being an alcoholic solution of benzoin, styrax, tolu balsam, and aloes; compound tincture of benzoin. Brande & C.  -- Friar's cap (Bot.), the monkshood.  -- Friar's cowl (Bot.), an arumlike plant (Arisarum vulgare) with a spathe or involucral leaf resembling a cowl.  -- Friar's lantern, the ignis fatuus or Will-o'-the-wisp. Milton.  -- Friar skate (Zoöl.), the European white or sharpnosed skate (Raia alba); -- called also Burton skate, border ray, scad, and doctor. 

FRIARLY:  Like a friar; inexperienced. Bacon. 

FRIARY:  Like a friar; pertaining to friars or to a convent. [Obs.] Camden. 

FRIATION:  The act of breaking up or pulverizing. 

FRIBBLE:  Frivolous; trifling; sily. 

FRIBBLE:  A frivolous, contemptible fellow; a fop. A pert fribble of a peer. Thackeray. 

FRIBBLER:  A trifler; a fribble. 

FRIBBLING:  Frivolous; trining; toolishly captious.  FRIBORG; FRIBORGH Fri"borg , Fri"borgh, n. Etym: [AS. fri, lit., peace PLAGE; fri peace + borh, borg, pledge, akin to E. borrow. The first part of the word was confused with free, the last part, with borough.] (Old Eng. Law)  The pledge and tithing, afterwards called by the Normans frankpledge. See Frankpledge. [Written also friburgh and fribourg.] Burril. 

FRICACE:  A ragout or fricassee of veal; a fancy dish of veal or of boned turkey, served as an entrée, -- called also fricandel. A. J. Cooley. 

FRICASSEE:  A dish made of fowls, veal, or other meat of small animals cut into pieces, and stewed in a gravy. 

FRICASSEE:  To dress like a fricassee. 

FRICATION:  Friction. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FRICATIVE:  Produced by the friction or rustling of the breath, intonated or unintonated, through a narrow opening between two of the mouth organs; uttered through a close approach, but not with a complete closure, of the organs of articulation, and hence capable of being continued or prolonged; -- said of certain consonantal sounds, as f, v, s, z, etc.  -- n.  A fricative consonant letter or sound. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 197-206, etc. 

FRICATRICE:  A lewd woman; a harlot. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

FRICKLE:  A bushel basket. [Obs.] 

FRICTION:  The resistance which a body meets with from the surface on which it moves. It may be resistance to sliding motion, or to rolling motion.  3. A clashing between two persons or parties in opinions or work; a disagreement tending to prevent or retard progress. Angle of friction (Mech.), the angle which a plane onwhich a body is lying makes with a horizontal plane,when the hody is just ready to slide dewn the plane.  Note: This angle varies for different bodies, and for planes of different materials.  -- Anti-friction wheels (Mach.), wheels turning freely on small pivots, and sustaining, at the angle formed by their circumferences, the pivot or journal of a revolving shaft, to relieve it of friction; -- called also friction wheels.  -- Friction balls, or Friction rollers, balls or rollers placed so as to receive the pressure or weight of bodies in motion, and relieve friction, as in the hub of a bicycle wheel.  -- Friction brake (Mach.), a form of dynamometer for measuring the power a motor exerts. A clamp around the revolving shaft or fly wheel of the motor resists the motion by its friction, the work thus absorbed being ascertained by observing the force required to keep the clamp from revolving with the shaft; a Prony brake.  -- Friction chocks, brakes attached to the common standing garrison carriages of guns, so as to raise the trucks or wheels off the platform when the gun begins to recoil, and prevent its running back. Earrow.  -- Friction clutch, Friction coupling, an engaging and disengaging gear for revolving shafts, pulleys, etc., acting by friction; esp.: (a) A device in which a piece on one shaft or pulley is so forcibly pressed against a piece on another shaft that the two will revolve together; as, in the illustration, the cone a on one shaft, when thrust forcibly into the corresponding hollow cone b on the other shaft, compels the shafts to rotate together, by the hold the friction of the conical surfaces gives. (b) A toothed clutch, one member of which, instead of being made fast on its shaft, is held by friction and can turn, by slipping, under excessive strain or in starting.  -- Friction drop hammer, one in which the hammer is raised for striking by the friction of revolving rollers which nip the hammer rod.  -- Friction gear. See Frictional gearing, under Frictional.  -- Friction machine, an electrical machine, generating electricity by friction.  -- Friction meter, an instrument for measuring friction, as in testing lubricants.  -- Friction powder, Friction composition, a composition of chlorate of potassium, antimony, sulphide, etc, which readily ignites by friction.  -- Friction primer, Friction tube, a tube used for firing cannon by means of the friction of a roughened wire in the friction powder or composition with which the tube is filled -- Friction wheel (Mach.), one of the wheels in frictional gearing. See under Frictional. 

FRICTIONAL:  Relating to friction; moved by friction; produced by friction; as, frictional electricity. Frictional gearing, wheels which transmit motion by surface friction instead of teeth. The faces are sometimes made more or less V-shaped to increase or decrease friction, as required. 

FRICTIONLESS:  Having no friction. 

FRIDAY:  The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and preceding Saturday. 

FRIDGE:  To rub; to fray. [Obs.] Sterne.  FRIDSTOL; FRITHSTOOL Frid"stol`, Frith`stool", n. Etym: [AS. fril. See Fred, and Stool.]  A seat in churches near the altar, to which offenders formerly fled for sanctuary. [Written variously fridstool, freedstool, etc.] [Obs.] 

FRIED:  imp. & p. p. of Fry. 

FRIEND:  To act as the friend of; to favor; to countenance; to befriend. [Obs.] Fortune friends the bold. Spenser. 

FRIENDING:  Friendliness. [Obs.] Shak. 

FRIENDLESS:  Destitute of friends; forsaken.  -- Friend"less*ness, n. 

FRIENDLILY:  In a friendly manner. Pope. 

FRIENDLINESS:  The condition or quality of being friendly. Sir P. Sidney. 

FRIENDLY:  In the manner of friends; amicably; like friends. [Obs.] Shak. In whom all graces that can perfect beauty Are friendly met. Beau. & Fl. 

FRIER:  One who fries. 

FRIESE:  Same as Friesic, n. 

FRIESIC:  Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province in the northern part of the Netherlands. 

FRIESIC:  The language of the Frisians, a Teutonic people formerly occupying a large part of the coast of Holland and Northwestern Germany. The modern dialects of Friesic are spoken chiefly in the province of Friesland, and on some of the islands near the coast of Germany and Denmark. 

FRIESISH:  Friesic. [R.] 

FRIEZE:  A kind of coarse woolen cloth or stuff with a shaggy or tufted (friezed) nap on one side. "Robes of frieze." Goldsmith. 

FRIEZE:  To make a nap on (cloth); to friz. See Friz, v. t.,  2. Friezing machine, a machine for friezing cloth; a friezing machine. 

FRIEZED:  Gathered, or having the map gathered, into little tufts, knots, or protuberances. Cf. Frieze, v. t., and Friz, v. t.,  2. 

FRIEZER:  One who, or that which, friezes or frizzes. 

FRIGATE:  Built like a frigate with a raised quarter-deck and forecastle. 

FRIGATOON:  A Venetian vessel, with a square stern, having only a mainmast, jigger mast, and bowsprit; also a sloop of war ship-rigged. 

FRIGEFACTION:  The act of making cold. [Obs.] 

FRIGEFACTIVE:  Cooling. [Obs.] Boyle. 

FRIGERATE:  To make cool. [Obs.] Blount.  FRIGG; FRIGGA Frigg, Frig"ga n. Etym: [Icel. Frigg. See Friday.] (Scand. Myth.)  The wife of Odin and mother of the gods; the supreme goddess; the Juno of the Valhalla. Cf. Freya. 

FRIGHT:  To alarm suddenly; to shock by causing sudden fear; to terrify; to scare. Nor exile or danger can fright a brave spirit. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To affright; dismay; daunt; intimidate. 

FRIGHTEN:  To disturb with fear; to throw into a state of alarm or fright; to affright; to terrify. More frightened than hurt. Old Proverb. 

FRIGHTFULLY:  In a frightful manner; to a frightful dagree. 

FRIGHTFULNESS:  The quality of being frightful. 

FRIGHTLESS:  Free from fright; fearless. [Obs.] 

FRIGHTMENT:  Fear; terror. [Obs.] 

FRIGIDARIUM:  The cooling room of the Roman thermæ, furnished with a cold bath. 

FRIGIDLY:  In a frigid manner; coldly; dully; without affection. 

FRIGIDNESS:  The state of being frigid; want of heat, vigor, or affection; coldness; dullness.  FRIGORIFIC; FRIGORIFICAL Frig"o*rif"ic, Frig"o*rif`ic*al a. Etym: [L. frigorificus; frigus, frigoris, cold + facere to make: cf. F. frigorifique.]  Causing cold; producing or generating cold. Quincy.  FRIJOL; FRIJOLE; FREJOL Fri"jol, Fri"jole, n.; pl. Frijoles. Also Fre"jol. [Sp. fríjol, fréjol.]  1. In Mexico, the southwestern United States, and the West Indies, any cultivated bean of the genus Phaseolus, esp. the black seed of a variety of P. vulgaris.  2.  The beanlike seed of any of several related plants, as the cowpea. Frijoles are an important article of diet among Spanish- American peoples, being used as an ingredient of many dishes. 

FRILL:  To wrinkle; -- said of the gelatin film. 

FRILL:  To provide or decorate with a frill or frills; to turn back. in crimped plaits; as, to frill a cap. 

FRILLED:  Furnished with a frill or frills. Frilled lizard (Zoöl.), a large Australian lizard (Chlamydosaurus Kingii) about three feet long, which has a large, erectile frill on each side of the neck. 

FRIM:  Flourishing; thriving; fresh; in good case; vigorous. [Obs.] "Frim pastures." Drayton. 

FRIMAIRE:  The third month of the French republican calendar. It commenced November 21, and ended December 20., See Vendémiaire. 

FRINGE:  One of a number of light or dark bands, produced by the interference of light; a diffraction band; -- called also interference fringe.  4. (Bot.)  The peristome or fringelike appendage of the capsules of most mosses. See Peristome. Fringe tree (Bot.), a small tree (Chionanthus Virginica), growing in the Southern United States, and having snow- white flowers, with long pendulous petals. 

FRINGE:  To adorn the edge of with a fringe or as with a fringe. Precipices fringed with grass. Bryant. Fringing reef. See Coral reefs, under Coral. 

FRINGED:  Furnished with a fringe. Fringed lear (Bot.), a leaf edged with soft parallel hairs. 

FRINGELESS:  Having no fringe. 

FRINGENT:  Encircling like a fringe; bordering. [R.] "The fringent air." Emerson.  FRINGE TREE Fringe tree.  A small oleaceous tree (Chionanthus virginica), of the southern United States, having clusters of white flowers with slender petals. It is often cultivated. 

FRINGILLA:  A genus of birds, with a short, conical, pointed bill. It formerly included all the sparrows and finches, but is now restricted to certain European finches, like the chaffinch and brambling. 

FRINGILLACEOUS:  Fringilline. 

FRINGILLINE:  Pertaining to the family Fringillidæ; characteristic of finches; sparrowlike. 

FRINGY:  Aborned with fringes. Shak. 

FRIPPER:  One who deals in frippery or in old clothes. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FRIPPERER:  A fripper. [Obs.] Johnson. 

FRIPPERY:  Trifling; contemptible.  FRISETTE; FRIZETTE Fri*sette", Fri*zette", n. [F. frisette curl.]  a fringe of hair or curls worn about the forehead by women. 

FRISEUR:  A hairdresser. 

FRISIAN:  Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province of the Netherlands; Friesic. 

FRISIAN:  A native or inhabitant of Friesland; also, the language spoken in Friesland. See Friesic, n. 

FRISK:  Lively; brisk; frolicsome; frisky. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

FRISK:  A frolic; a fit of wanton gayety; a gambol: a little playful skip or leap. Johnson. 

FRISK:  To leap, skip, dance, or gambol, in fronc and gayety. The frisking satyrs on the summits danced. Addison. 

FRISKAL:  A leap or caper. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

FRISKER:  One who frisks; one who leaps of dances in gayety; a wanton; an inconstant or unsettled person. Camden. 

FRISKET:  The light frame which holds the sheet of paper to the tympan in printing. 

FRISKFUL:  Brisk; lively; frolicsome. 

FRISKILY:  In a frisky manner. 

FRISKINESS:  State or quality of being frisky. 

FRISKY:  Inclined to frisk; frolicsome; gay. He is too frisky for an old man. Jeffrey. 

FRISLET:  [Fraise a kind of defense; also Friz.) A kind of small ruffle. Halliwell. 

FRIST:  To sell upon credit, as goods. [R.] Crabb. 

FRISURE:  The dressing of the hair by crisping or curling. Smollett. 

FRIT:  The material of which glass is made, after having been calcined or partly fused in a furnace, but before vitrification. It is a composition of silex and alkali, occasionally with other ingredients. Ure.  2. (Ceramics)  The material for glaze of pottery. Frit brick, a lump of calcined glass materials, brought to a pasty condition in a reverberatory furnace, preliminary to the perfect vitrification in the melting pot. 

FRIT:  To prepare by heat (the materials for making glass); to fuse partially. Ure. 

FRIT:  To fritter; -- with away. [R.] Ld. Lytton. 

FRITFLY:  A small dipterous fly of the genus Oscinis, esp. O. vastator, injurious to grain in Europe, and O. Trifole, injurious to clover in America. 

FRITH:  A narrow arm of the sea; an estuary; the opening of a river into the sea; as, the Frith of Forth.  2. A kind of weir for catching fish. [Eng.] Carew. 

FRITHY:  Woody. [Obs.] Skelton. 

FRITILLARIA:  A genus of liliaceous plants, of which the crown-imperial (Fritillaria imperialis) is one species, and the Guinea-hen flower (F. Meleagris) another. See Crown-imperial. 

FRITILLARY:  A plant with checkered petals, of the genus Fritillaria: the Guinea-hen flower. See Fritillaria.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of several species of butterflies belonging to Argynnis and allied genera; -- so called because the coloring of their wings resembles that of the common Fritillaria. See Aphrodite. 

FRITINANCY:  A chirping or creaking, as of a cricket. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FRITTING:  The formation of frit or slag by heat with but incipient fusion. 

FRIVOL:  To act frivolously; to trifle. Kipling. -- Friv"ol*er (#), Friv"ol*ler, n. [All Colloq.] 

FRIVOLISM:  Frivolity. [R.] Pristley. 

FRIVOLITY:  The condition or quality of being frivolous; also, acts or habits of trifling; unbecoming levity of disposition. 

FRIZ:  To soften and make of even thickness by rubbing, as with pumice stone or a blunt instrument. Frizzing machine. (a) (Fabrics) A machine for frizzing the surface of cloth. (b) (Wood Working) A bench with a revolving cutter head slightly protruding above its surface, for dressing boards. 

FRIZ:  That which is frizzed; anything crisped or curled, as a wig; a frizzle. [Written also frizz.] He [Dr. Johnson], who saw in his glass how his wig became his face and head, might easily infer that a similar fullbottomed, well-curled friz of words would be no less becoming to his thoughts. Hare. 

FRIZE:  See 1st Frieze. 

FRIZEL:  A movable furrowed piece of steel struck by the flint, to throw sparks into the pan, in an early form of flintlock. Knight. 

FRIZETTE:  A curl of hair or silk; a pad of frizzed hair or silk worn by women under the hair to stuff it out. 

FRIZZ:  See Friz, v. t. & n. 

FRIZZLE:  To curl or crisp, as hair; to friz; to crinkle. Gay. To frizzle up, to crinkle or crisp excessively. 

FRIZZLE:  A curl; a lock of hair crisped. Milton. 

FRIZZLER:  One who frizzles.  FRIZZLY; FRIZZY Friz"zly, Friz"zy, a.  Curled or crisped; as, frizzly, hair. 

FRO:  From; away; back or backward; -- now used only in oppositionto the word to, in the phrase to and fro, that is, to and from. See To and fro under To. Millon. 

FRO:  From. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FROCKED:  Clothed in a frock. 

FROCKLESS:  Destitute of a frock. 

FROE:  A dirty woman; a slattern; a frow. [Obs.] "Raging frantic froes." Draylon. 

FROE:  An iron cleaver or splitting tool; a frow. [U. S.] Bartlett. 

FROEBELIAN:  Pertaining to, or derived from, Friedrich Froebel, or the kindergarten system of education, which he organized. -- n.  One who teaches by, or advocates the use of, the kindergarten system. 

FROG:  1. (Zoöl.) An amphibious animal of the genus Rana and related genera, of many species. Frogs swim rapidly, and take long leaps on land. Many of the species utter loud notes in the springtime.  Note: The edible frog of Europe (Rana esculenta) is extensively used as food; the American bullfrog (R. Catesbiana) is remarkable for its great size and loud voice.  2. Etym: [Perh. akin to E. fork, cf. frush frog of a horse.] (Anat.)  The triangular prominence of the hoof, in the middle of the sole of the foot of the horse, and other animals; the fourchette.  3. (Railroads)  A supporting plate having raised ribs that form continuations of the rails, to guide the wheels where one track branches from another or crosses it.  4. Etym: [Cf. fraco of wool or silk, L. floccus, E. frock.]  An oblong cloak button, covered with netted thread, and fastening into a loop instead of a button hole.  5. The loop of the scabbard of a bayonet or sword. Cross frog (Railroads), a frog adapted for tracks that cross at right angles.  -- Frog cheese, a popular name for a large puffball.  -- Frog eater, one who eats frogs; -- a term of contempt applied to a Frenchman by the vulgar class of English.  -- Frog fly. (Zoöl.) See Frog hopper.  -- Frog hopper (Zoöl.), a small, leaping, hemipterous insect living on plants. The larvæ are inclosed are frothy liquid called cuckoo spit or frog spit.  -- Frog lily (Bot.), the yellow water lily (Nuphar).  -- Frog spit (Zoöl.), the frothy exudation of the frog hopper; -- called also frog spittle. See Cuckoo spit, under Cuckoo. 

FROG:  To ornament or fasten (a coat, etc.) with trogs. See Frog, n., 4. 

FROGBIT:  Spotted with whitish specks due to a disease, or produced artificially by spraying; -- said of tobacco used for cigar wrappers. 

FROGGED:  Provided or ornamented with frogs; as, a frogged coat. See Frog, n., 4. Ld. Lytton. 

FROGGY:  Abounding in frogs. Sherwood. 

FROGMOUTH:  One of several species of Asiatic and East Indian birds of the genus Batrachostomus (family Podargidæ); -- so called from their very broad, flat bills.  FROGS-BIT Frog"s`-bit", n. (Bot.)  Frogbit. 

FROGSHELL:  One of numerous species of marine gastropod shells, belonging to Ranella and allied genera. 

FROISE:  A kind of pancake. See 1st Fraise. [Written also fraise.] 

FROLIC:  Full of levity; dancing, playing, or frisking about; full of pranks; frolicsome; gay; merry. The frolic wind that breathes the spring. Milton. The gay, the frolic, and the loud. Waller. 

FROLIC:  To play wild pranks; to play tricks of levity, mirth, and gayety; to indulge in frolicsome play; to sport. Hither, come hither, and frolic and play. Tennyson. 

FROLICFUL:  Frolicsome. [R.] 

FROLICKY:  Frolicsome. [Obs.] Richardson. 

FROLICLY:  In a frolicsome manner; with mirth and gayety. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

FROLICSOME:  Full of gayety and mirth; given to pranks; sportive. Old England, who takes a frolicsome brain fever once every two or three years, for the benefit of her doctors. Sir W. Scott. -- Frol"ic*some*ly, adv.  -- Frol"ic*some*ness, n. 

FROM:  Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc., are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the point of space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded as setting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, the cause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- the aritithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles from Boston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side; light proceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; men have all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and from bad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle from which it proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, or from testimony. Experience from the time past to the time present. Bacon. The song began from Jove. Drpden. From high Mæonia's rocky shores I came. Addison. If the wind blow any way from shore. Shak.  Note: From sometimes denotes away from, remote from, inconsistent with. "Anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing." Shak. From, when joined with another preposition or an adverb, gives an opportunity for abbreviating the sentence. "There followed him great multitudes of people . . . from [the land] beyond Jordan." Math. iv. 25. In certain constructions, as from forth, from out, etc., the ordinary and more obvious arrangment is inverted, the sense being more distinctly forth from, out from -- from being virtually the governing preposition, and the word the adverb. See From off, under Off, adv., and From afar, under Afar, adv. Sudden partings such as press The life from out young hearts. Byron.  FROMWARD; FROMWARDS From"ward, From"wards, prep. Etym: [AS. framweard about to depart. Cf. Froward]  A way from; -- the contrary of toward. [Obs.] Towards or fromwards the zenith. Cheyne. 

FROND:  The organ formed by the combination or union into one body of stem and leaf, and often bearing the fructification; as, the frond of a fern or of a lichen or seaweed; also, the peculiar leaf of a palm tree. 

FRONDATION:  The act of stripping, as trees, of leaves or branches; a kind of pruning. Evelyn. 

FRONDE:  A political party in France, during the minority of Louis XIV., who opposed the government, and made war upon the court party. 

FRONDED:  Furnished with fronds. "Fronded palms." Whittier. 

FRONDENT:  Covered with leaves; leafy; as, a frondent tree. [R.] 

FRONDESCE:  To unfold leaves, as plants. 

FRONDEUR:  A member of the Fronde. 

FRONDIFEROUS:  Producing fronds. 

FRONDLET:  A very small frond, or distinct portion of a compound frond. 

FRONDOUS:  Frondose. [R.] 

FRONS:  The forehead; the part of the cranium between the orbits and the vertex. 

FRONT:  Of or relating to the front or forward part; having a position in front; foremost; as, a front view. 

FRONT:  To have or turn the face or front in any direction; as, the house fronts toward the east. 

FRONTAGE:  The front part of an edifice or lot; extent of front. 

FRONTAL:  Belonging to the front part; being in front; esp. (Anat.),  Of or pertaining to the forehead or the anterior part of the roof of the brain case; as, the frontal bones. 

FRONTAL:  A little pediment over a door or window.  3. (Eccl.)  A movable, decorative member in metal, carved wood, or, commonly, in rich stuff or in embroidery, covering the front of the altar. Frontals are usually changed according to the different ceremonies.  4. (Med.)  A medicament or application for the forehead. [Obs.] Quincy.  5. (Anat.)  The frontal bone, or one of the two frontal bones, of the cranium. Frontal hammer or helve, a forge hammer lifted by a cam, acting upon a "tongue" immediately in front of the hammer head. Raymond.  FRONTATE; FRONTATED Fron"tate, Fronta*ted, a.  Growing broader and broader, as a leaf; truncate. 

FRONTED:  Formed with a front; drawn up in line. "Fronted brigades." Milton. 

FRONTIER:  An outwork. [Obs.] Palisadoes, frontiers, parapets. Shak. 

FRONTIER:  To constitute or form a frontier; to have a frontier; -- with on. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple. 

FRONTIERED:  Placed on the frontiers. [R.] 

FRONTIERSMAN:  A man living on the frontier.  FRONTIGNAC; FRONTIGNAN Fron`ti*gnac", Fron`ti`gnan" (, n. Etym: [So called from Frontignan, a town in Southern France.]  1. A sweet muscadine wine made in Frontignan (Languedoc), France.  2. (Bot.)  A grape of many varieties and colors. 

FRONTINGLY:  In a fronting or facing position; opposingly. 

FRONTINIAC:  See Frontignac. 

FRONTISPIECE:  The part which first meets the eye; as: (a) (Arch.) The principal front of a building. [Obs. or R.] (b) An ornamental figure or illustration fronting the first page, or titlepage, of a book; formerly, the titlepage itself. 

FRONTLESS:  Without face or front; shameless; not diffident; impudent. [Obs.] "Frontless vice." Dryden. "Frontless flattery." Pope. 

FRONTLESSLY:  Shamelessly; impudently. [Obs.] 

FRONTLET:  The margin of the head, behind the bill of birds, often bearing rigid bristles.  FRONTO- Fron"to-. Etym: [L. frons, frontis, the forehead.] (Anat.)  A combining form signifying relating to the forehead or the frontal bone; as, fronto-parietal, relating to the frontal and the parietal bones; fronto-nasal, etc. 

FRONTON:  Same as Frontal, 2. 

FROPPISH:  Peevish; froward. [Obs.] Clarendon. 

FRORE:  Frostily. [Obs.] The parching air Burns frore, and cold performs the effect of fire. Milton. 

FRORN:  Frozen. [Obs.] Well nigh frorn I feel. Spenser. 

FROSTBIRD:  The golden plover. 

FROSTBITE:  The freezing, or effect of a freezing, of some part of the body, as the ears or nose. Kane. 

FROSTBITE:  To expose to the effect of frost, or a frosty air; to blight or nip with frost. My wife up and with Mrs. Pen to walk in the fields to frostbite themselves. Pepys.  FROST-BITTEN Frost`-bit"ten, p. a.  Nipped, withered, or injured, by frost or freezing.  FROST-BLITE Frost`-blite", n. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Atriplex; orache. Gray. (b) The lamb's-quarters (Chenopodium album). Dr. Prior. 

FROSTBOW:  A white arc or circle in the sky attending frosty weather and formed by reflection of sunlight from ice crystals floating in the air; the parhelic circle whose center is at the zenith. 

FROSTED:  Covered with hoarfrost or anything resembling hoarfrost; ornamented with frosting; also, frost-bitten; as, a frosted cake; frosted glass. Frosted work is introduced as a foil or contrast to burnished work. Knight. 

FROSTILY:  In a frosty manner. 

FROSTINESS:  State or quality of being frosty. 

FROSTLESS:  Free from frost; as, a frostless winter.  FROST SIGNAL Frost" sig`nal. (Meteor.)  A signal consisting of a white flag with a black center, used by the United States Weather Bureau to indicate that a local frost is expected. It is used only in Florida and along the coasts of the Pacific and the Gulf Mexico. 

FROSTWEED:  An American species of rockrose (Helianthemum Canadense), sometimes used in medicine as an astringent or aromatic tonic.  Note: It has large yellow flowers which are often sterile, and later it has abundant but inconspicuous flowers which bear seed. It is so called because, late in autumn, crystals of ice shoot from the cracked bark at the root; -- called also frostwort. 

FROSTWORK:  The figurework, often fantastic and delicate, which moisture sometimes forms in freezing, as upon a window pane or a flagstone. 

FROSTWORT:  Same as Frostweed. 

FROTE:  To rub or wear by rubbing; to chafe. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

FROTERER:  One who frotes; one who rubs or chafes. [Obs.] Marston. 

FROTH:  To throw up or out spume, foam, or bubbles; to foam; as beer froths; a horse froths. 

FROTHILY:  In a frothy manner. 

FROTHINESS:  State or quality of being frothy. 

FROTHING:  Exaggerated declamation; rant. 

FROTHLESS:  Free from froth. 

FROUFROU:  A rustling, esp. the rustling of a woman's dress. 

FROUNCE:  To gather into or adorn with plaits, as a dress; to form wrinkles in or upon; to curl or frizzle, as the hair. Not tricked and frounced, as she was wont. Milton. 

FROUNCE:  To form wrinkles in the forehead; to manifest displeasure; to frown. [Obs.] The Commons frounced and stormed. Holland. 

FROUNCELESS:  Without frounces. Rom. of R. 

FROUZY:  Fetid, musty; rank; disordered and offensive to the smell or sight; slovenly; dingy. See Frowzy. "Petticoats in frouzy heaps." Swift. 

FROW:  A cleaving tool with handle at right angles to the blade, for splitting cask staves and shingles from the block; a frower. 

FROW:  Brittle. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

FROWARD:  Not willing to yield or compIy with what is required or is reasonable; perverse; disobedient; peevish; as, a froward child. A froward man soweth strife. Prov. xvi. 28. A froward retention of custom is as turbulent a thing as innovation. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Untoward; wayward; unyielding; ungovernable: refractory; obstinate; petulant; cross; peevish. See Perverse.  -- Fro"ward*ly, adv.  -- Fro"ward*ness, n. 

FROWER:  A tool. See 2d Frow. Tusser. 

FROWEY:  Working smoothly, or without splitting; -- said of timber. 

FROWN:  To repress or repel by expressing displeasure or disapproval; to rebuke with a look; as, frown the impudent fellow into silence. 

FROWNINGLY:  In a frowning manner. 

FROWNY:  Frowning; scowling. [Obs.] Her frowny mother's ragged shoulder. Sir F. Palgrave. 

FROWY:  Musty. rancid; as, frowy butter. "Frowy feed." Spenser 

FROWZY:  Slovenly; unkempt; untidy; frouzy. "With head all frowzy." Spenser. The frowzy soldiers' wives hanging out clothes. W. D. Howells. 

FROZE:  imp. of Freeze. 

FROZENNESS:  A state of being frozen. 

FRUBISH:  To rub up: to furbish. [Obs.] Beau. c& Et. 

FRUCTED:  Bearing fruit; -- said of a tree or plant so represented upon an escutcheon. Cussans. 

FRUCTESCENCE:  The maturing or ripening of fruit. [R.] Martyn. 

FRUCTICULOSE:  Fruitful; full of fruit. 

FRUCTIDOR:  The twelfth month of the French republican calendar; -- commencing August 18, and ending September 16. See Vendémiaire. 

FRUCTIFERUOS:  Bearing or producing fruit. Boyle. 

FRUCTIFY:  To bear fruit. "Causeth the earth to fructify." Beveridge. 

FRUCTIFY:  To make fruitful; to render productive; to fertilize; as, to fructify the earth. 

FRUCTOSE:  Fruit sugar; levulose. [R.] 

FRUCTUARY:  One who enjoys the profits, income, or increase of anything. Kings are not proprietors nor fructuaries. Prynne. 

FRUCTUATION:  Produce; fruit, [R.] 

FRUCTUOUS:  Fruitful; productive; profitable. [Obs.] Nothing fructuous or profitable. Chaucer. -- Fruc"tu*ous*ly, adv.  -- Fruc"tu*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] 

FRUCTURE:  Use; fruition; enjoyment. [Obs.] Cotgrave.  FRUE VANNER Frue" van"ner. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Mining)  A moving, inclined, endless apron on which ore is concentrated by a current of water; a kind of buddle. 

FRUGALLY:  Thriftily; prudently. 

FRUGALNESS:  , n. Quality of being frugal; frugality. 

FRUGIFEROUS:  Producing fruit; fruitful; fructiferous. Dr. H. More. 

FRUGIVORA:  The fruit bate; a group of the Cheiroptera, comprising the bats which live on fruits. See Eruit bat, under Fruit. 

FRUGIVOROUS:  Feeding on fruit, as birds and other animals. Pennant. 

FRUIT:  The pulpy, edible seed vessels of certain plants, especially those grown on branches above ground, as apples, oranges, grapes, melons, berries, etc. See 3.  3. (Bot.)  The ripened ovary of a flowering plant, with its contents and whatever parts are consolidated with it.  Note: Fruits are classified as fleshy, drupaceous, and -dry. Fleshy fruits include berries, gourds, and melons, orangelike fruita and pomes; drupaceous fruits are stony within and fleshy without, as peaches, plums, and chercies;and dry fruits are further divided into achenes, follicles, legumes, capsules, nuts, and several other kinds.  4. (Bot.)  The spore cases or conceptacles of flowerless plants, as of ferns, mosses, algae, etc., with the spores contained in them.  6. The produce of animals; offspring; young; as, the fruit of the womb, of the loins, of the body. King Edward's fruit, true heir to the English crown. Shak.  6. That which is produced; the effect or consequence of any action; advantageous or desirable product or result; disadvantageous or evil consequence or effect; as, the fruits of labor, of self-denial, of intemperance. The fruit of rashness. Shak. What I obtained was the fruit of no bargain. Burke. They shall eat the fruit of their doings. Is. iii 10. The fruits of this education became visible. Macaulay.  Note: Fruit is frequently used adjectively, signifying of, for, or pertaining to a fruit or fruits; as, fruit bud; fruit frame; fruit jar; fruit knife; fruit loft; fruit show; fruit stall; fruit tree; etc. Fruit bat (Zoöl.), one of the Frugivora; -- called also fruit- eating bat.  -- Fruit bud (Bot.), a bud that produces fruit; -- in most oplants the same as the power bud. Fruit dot (Bot.), a collection of fruit cases, as in ferns. See Sorus.  -- Fruit fly (Zoöl.), a small dipterous insect of the genus Drosophila, which lives in fruit, in the larval state.  -- Fruit jar, a jar for holding preserved fruit, usually made of glass or earthenware.  -- Fruit pigeon (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of pigeons of the family Carpophagidæ, inhabiting India, Australia, and the Pacific Islands. They feed largely upon fruit. and are noted for their beautiful colors.  -- Fruit sugar (Chem.), a kind of sugar occurring, naturally formed, in many ripe fruits, and in honey; levulose. The name is also, though rarely, applied to invert sugar, or to the natural mixture or dextrose and levulose resembling it, and found in fruits and honey.  -- Fruit tree (Hort.), a tree cultivated for its edible fruit.  -- Fruit worm (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of insect larvæ: which live in the interior of fruit. They are mostly small species of Lepidoptera and Diptera.  -- Small fruits (Hort.), currants, raspberries, strawberries, etc. 

FRUIT:  To bear fruit. Chesterfield. 

FRUITER:  A ship for carrying fruit. 

FRUITERER:  One who deals in fruit; a seller of fruits. 

FRUITERESS:  A woman who sells fruit. 

FRUITESTERE:  A fruiteress. [Obs.] 

FRUITFUL:  Full of fruit; producing fruit abundantly; bearing results; prolific; fertile; liberal; bountiful; as, a fruitful tree, or season, or soil; a fruitful wife.  -- Fruit"ful*ly, adv.  -- Fruit"ful*ness, n. Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. Gen. i. 28. [Nature] By disburdening grows More fruitful. Milton. The great fruitfulness of the poet's fancy. Addison.  Syn.  -- Fertile; prolific; productive; fecund; plentiful; rich; abundant; plenteous. See Fertile. 

FRUITING:  Pertaining to, or producing, fruit. 

FRUITING:  The bearing of fruit. 

FRUITION:  Use or possession of anything, especially such as is accompanied with pleasure or satisfaction; pleasure derived from possession or use. "Capacity of fruition." Rogers. "Godlike fruition." Milton. Where I may have fruition of her love. Shak. 

FRUITIVE:  Eujoying; possessing. [Obs.] Boyle. 

FRUITY:  Having the odor, taste, or appearance of fruit; also, fruitful. Dickens. 

FRUMENTACEOUS:  Made of, or resembling, wheat or other grain. 

FRUMENTARIOUS:  Of or pertaining to wheat or grain. [R.] Coles. 

FRUMENTATION:  A largess of grain bestowed upon the people, to quiet them when uneasy. 

FRUMENTY:  Food made of hulled wheat boiled in milk, with sugar, plums, etc. [Written also furmenty and furmity.] Halliwell. 

FRUMP:  To insult; to flout; to mock; to snub. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

FRUMPER:  A mocker. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

FRUSH:  To batter; to break in pieces. [Obs.] I like thine armor well; I'll frush it and unlock the rivets all. Shak. 

FRUSH:  Easily broken; brittle; crisp. 

FRUSH:  Noise; clatter; crash. [R.] Southey. 

FRUSH:  The frog of a horse's foot.  2. A discharge of a fetid or ichorous matter from the frog of a horse's foot; -- also caled thrush. 

FRUSTRABLE:  Capable of beeing frustrated or defeated. 

FRUSTRANEOUS:  Vain; useless; unprofitable. [Obs.] South. 

FRUSTRATE:  Vain; ineffectual; useless; unprofitable; null; voil; nugatory; of no effect. "Our frustrate search." Shak. 

FRUSTRATELY:  In vain. [Obs.] Vicars. 

FRUSTRATION:  The act of frustrating; disappointment; defeat; as, the frustration of one's designs 

FRUSTRATIVE:  Tending to defeat; fallacious. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

FRUSTRATORY:  Making void; rendering null; as, a frustratory appeal. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

FRUSTULE:  The siliceous shell of a diatom. It is composed of two valves, one overlapping the other, like a pill box and its cover. 

FRUSTULENT:  Abounding in fragments. [R.] 

FRUSTUM:  The part of a solid next the base, formed by cutting off the, top; or the part of any solid, as of a cone, pyramid, etc., between two planes, which may be either parallel or inclined to each other.  2. (Arch.)  One of the drums of the shaft of a column. 

FRUTESCENT:  Somewhat shrubby in character; imperfectly shrubby, as the American species of Wistaria. 

FRUTEX:  A plant having a woody, durable stem, but less than a tree; a shrub. 

FRUTICANT:  Full of shoots. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

FRUTICOSE:  Pertaining to a shrub or shrubs; branching like a shrub; shrubby; shrublike; as, a fruticose stem. Gray. 

FRUTICOUS:  Fruticose. [R.] 

FRUTICULOSE:  Like, or pertaining to, a small shrub. Gray. 

FRY:  To cook in a pan or on a griddle (esp. with the use of fat, butter, or olive oil) by heating over a fire; to cook in boiling lard or fat; as, to fry fish; to fry doughnuts. 

FRY:  The young of any fish.  2. A swarm or crowd, especially of little fishes; young or small things in general. The fry of children young. Spenser. To sever . . . the good fish from the other fry. Milton. We have burned two frigates, and a hundred and twenty small fry. Walpole. 

FRYING:  The process denoted by the verb fry. Frying pan, an iron pan with a long handle, used for frying meat. vegetables, etc. 

FU:  A department in China comprising several hsein; also, the chief city of a department; -- often forming the last part of a name; as, Paoting-fu. 

FUAGE:  Same as Fumage. 

FUAR:  Same as Feuar.  FUB; FUBS Fub, Fubs (, n. Etym: [Cf. Fob a pocket.]  A plump young person or child. [Obs.] Smart. 

FUB:  To put off by trickery; to cheat. [Obs.] I have been fubbed off, and fubbed off, and fabbed off, from this day to that day. Shak. 

FUBBERY:  Cheating; deception. Marston.  FUBBY; FUBSY Fub"by, Fub"sy a.  Plump; chubby; short and stuffy; as a fubsy sofa. [Eng.] A fubsy, good-humored, silly . . . old maid. Mme. D'Arblay.  FUCATE; FUCATED Fu"cate, Fu"ca*ted a. Etym: [L. fucatus, p. p. of fucare to color, paint, fr. fucus.]  Painted; disguised with paint, or with false show. 

FUCHS:  A student of the first year. 

FUCHSIA:  A genus of flowering plants having elegant drooping flowers, with four sepals, four petals, eight stamens, and a single pistil. They are natives of Mexico and South America. Double-flowered varieties are now common in cultivation. 

FUCHSINE:  Aniline red; an artificial coal-tar dyestuff, of a metallic green color superficially, resembling cantharides, but when dissolved forming a brilliant dark red. It consists of a hydrochloride or acetate of rosaniline. See Rosaniline. 

FUCIVOROUS:  Eating fucus or other seaweeds. 

FUCOID:  A plant, whether recent or fossil, which resembles a seaweed. See Fucoid, a. 

FUCOIDAL:  Fucoid.  2. (Geol.)  Containing impressions of fossil fucoids or seaweeds; as, fucoidal sandstone. 

FUCUS:  A genus of tough, leathery seaweeds, usually of a dull brownish green color; rockweed.  Note: Formerly most marine alg were called fuci. 

FUCUSOL:  An oily liquid, resembling, and possibly identical with, furfurol, and obtained from fucus, and other seaweeds. 

FUDDER:  See Fodder, a weight. 

FUDDLE:  To make foolish by drink; to cause to become intoxicated. [Colloq.] I am too fuddled to take care to observe your orders. Steele. 

FUDDLE:  To drink to excess. [Colloq.] 

FUDDLER:  A drunkard. [Colloq.] Baxter. 

FUDGE:  A made-up story; stuff; nonsense; humbug; -- often an exclamation of contempt. 

FUDGE:  A tool for ornamenting the edge of a sole. 

FUEGIAN:  Of or pertaining to Terra del Fuego.  -- n.  A native of Terra del Fuego. 

FUELER:  One who, or that which, supplies fuel. [R.] [Written also fueller.] Donne. 

FUFF:  To puff. [Prov. Eng. A Local, U. S.] Halliwel. 

FUFFY:  Light; puffy. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U. S.] 

FUGA:  A fugue. 

FUGACIOUS:  Fleeting; lasting but a short time; -- applied particularly to organs or parts which are short-lived as compared with the life of the individual. 

FUGACIOUSNESS:  Fugacity. [Obs.] 

FUGACY:  Banishment. [Obs.] Milton. 

FUGATO:  in the gugue style, but not strictly like a fugue.  -- n.  A composition resembling a fugue. 

FUGH:  An exclamation of disgust; foh; faugh. Dryden. 

FUGHETTA:  a short, condensed fugue. Grove. 

FUGITIVELY:  In a fugitive manner. 

FUGITIVENESS:  The quality or condition of being fugitive; evanescence; volatility; fugacity; instability. 

FUGLE:  To maneuver; to move hither and thither. [Colloq.] Wooden arms with elbow joints jerking and fugling in the air. Carlyle. 

FUGLEMAN:  A soldier especially expert and well drilled, who takes his place in front of a military company, as a guide for the others in their exercises; a file leader. He originally stood in front of the right wing. [Written also flugelman.]  2. Hence, one who leads the way. [Jocose] 

FUGUE:  A polyphonic composition, developed from a given theme or themes, according to strict contrapuntal rules. The theme is first given out by one voice or part, and then, while that pursues its way, it is repeated by another at the interval of a fifth or fourth, and so on, until all the parts have answered one by one, continuing their several melodies and interweaving them in one complex progressive whole, in which the theme is often lost and reappears. All parts of the scheme are eternally chasing each other, like the parts of a fugue. Jer. Taylor. 

FUGUIST:  A musician who composes or performs fugues. Busby.  -FUL -ful. Etym: [See Full, a.]  A suffix signifying full of, abounding with; as, boastful, harmful, woeful.  FULAHS; FOOLAHS Fu"lahs`  , Foo"lahs` (, n. pl.; sing. Fulah, Foolan (. (Ethnol.) A peculiar African race of uncertain origin, but distinct from the negro tribes, inhabiting an extensive region of Western Soudan. Their color is brown or yellowish bronze. They are Mohammedans. Called also Fellatahs, Foulahs, and Fellani. Fulah is also used adjectively; as, Fulah empire, tribes, language. 

FULBE:  Same as Fulahs. 

FULCIBLE:  Capable of being propped up. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

FULCIMENT:  A prop; a fulcrum. [Obs.] Bp. Wilkins. 

FULCRA:  See Fulcrum. 

FULCRATE:  Propped; supported by accessory organs. [R.] Gray.  2. Furnished with fulcrums. 

FULCRUM:  That by which a lever is sustained, or about which it turns in lifting or moving a body.  3. (Bot.)  An accessory organ such as a tendril, stipule, spine, and the like. [R.] Gray.  4. (Zoöl.) (a) The horny inferior surface of the lingua of certain insects. (b) One of the small, spiniform scales found on the front edge of the dorsal and caudal fins of many ganoid fishes.  5. (Anat.)  The connective tissue supporting the framework of the retina of the eye. 

FULFILLER:  One who fulfills. South. 

FULGENCY:  Brightness; splendor; glitter; effulgence. Bailey. 

FULGENT:  Exquisitely bright; shining; dazzling; effulgent. Other Thracians . . . fulgent morions wore. Glower. 

FULGENTLY:  Dazzlingly; glitteringly. 

FULGID:  Shining; glittering; dazzling. [R.] Pope. 

FULGIDITY:  Splendor; resplendence; effulgence. [R.] Bailey. 

FULGOR:  Dazzling brightness; splendor. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

FULGURANT:  Lightening. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

FULGURATA:  A spectro-electric tube in which the decomposition of a liquid by the passage of an electric spark is observed. Knight. 

FULGURATE:  To flash as lightning. [R.] 

FULGURATING:  Resembling lightning; -- used to describe intense lancinating painsaccompanying locomotor ataxy. 

FULGURATION:  The sudden brightening of a fused globule of gold or silver, when the last film of the oxide of lead or copper leaves its surface; -- also called blick. A phenomenon called, by the old chemists, fulguration. Ure. 

FULGURITE:  A vitrified sand tube produced by the striking of lightning on sand; a lightning tube; also, the portion of rock surface fused by a lightning discharge. 

FULGURY:  Lightning. [Obs.] 

FULHAM:  A false die. [Cant] [Written also fullam.] Shak. 

FULIGINOSITY:  The condition or quality of being fuliginous; sootiness; matter deposited by smoke. [R.] 

FULIGINOUSLY:  In a smoky manner. 

FULIMART:  Same as Foumart. 

FULL:  Complete measure; utmost extent; the highest state or degree. The swan's-down feather, That stands upon the swell at full of tide. Shak. Full of the moon, the time of full moon. 

FULL:  Quite; to the same degree; without abatement or diminution; with the whole force or effect; thoroughly; completely; exactly; entirely. The pawn I proffer shall be full as good. Dryden. The diapason closing full in man. Dryden. Full in the center of the sacred wood. Addison.  Note: Full is placed before adjectives and adverbs to heighten or strengthen their signification. "Full sad." Milton. "Master of a full poor cell." Shak. "Full many a gem of purest ray serene." T. Gray. Full is also prefixed to participles to express utmost extent or degree; as, full-bloomed, full-blown, full-crammed full-grown, full- laden, full-stuffed, etc. Such compounds, for the most part, are self-defining. 

FULL:  To become full or wholly illuminated; as, the moon fulls at midnight. 

FULL:  To thicken by moistening, heating, and pressing, as cloth; to mill; to make compact; to scour, cleanse, and thicken in a mill. 

FULL:  To become fulled or thickened; as, this material fulls well. 

FULLAGE:  The money or price paid for fulling or cleansing cloth. Johnson. 

FULLAM:  A false die. See Fulham.  FULL-BLOODED Full"-blood`ed, a.  1. Having a full supply of blood.  2. Of pure blood; thoroughbred; as, a full-blooded horse.  FULL-BLOOMED Full"-bloomed`, a.  Like a perfect blossom. "Full-bloomed lips." Crashaw.  FULL-BLOWN Full"-blown`, a.  1. Fully expanded, as a blossom; as, a full-bloun rose. Denham.  2. Fully distended with wind, as a sail. Dryden.  FULL-BOTTOMED Full"-bot"tomed, a.  1. Full and large at the bottom, as wigs worn by certain civil officers in Great Britain.  2. (Naut.)  Of great capacity below the water line.  FULL-BUTT Full"-butt", adv.  With direct and violentop position; with sudden collision. [Colloq.] L'Estrange.  FULL-DRIVE Full`-drive", adv.  With full speed. [Colloq.] 

FULLER:  One whose occupation is to full cloth. Fuller's earth, a variety of clay, used in scouring and cleansing cloth, to imbibe grease.  -- Fuller's herb (Bot.), the soapwort (Saponaria officinalis), formerly used to remove stains from cloth.  -- Fuller's thistle or weed (Bot.), the teasel (Dipsacus fullonum) whose burs are used by fullers in dressing cloth. See Teasel. 

FULLER:  A die; a half-round set hammer, used for forming grooves and spreading iron; -- called also a creaser. 

FULLER:  To form a groove or channel in, by a fuller or set hammer; as, to fuller a bayonet. 

FULLERY:  The place or the works where the fulling of cloth is carried on.  FULL-FORMED Full"-formed`, a.  Full in form or shape; rounded out with flesh. The full-formed maids of Afric. Thomson.  FULL-GROWN Full"-grown`, a.  Having reached the limits of growth; mature. "Full-grown wings." Lowell.  FULL-HEARTED Full"-heart`ed, a.  Full of courage or confidence. Shak.  FULL-HOT Full"-hot`, a.  Very fiery. Shak.  FULL HOUSE Full house. (Poker)  A hand containing three of a kind and a pair, as three kings and two tens. It ranks above a flush and below four of a kind. 

FULLING:  The process of cleansing, shrinking, and thickening cloth by moisture, heat, and pressure. Fulling mill, a mill for fulling cloth as by means of pesties or stampers, which alternately fall into and rise from troughs where the cloth is placed with hot water and fuller's earth, or other cleansing materials.  FULL-MANNED Full"-manned`, a.  Completely furnished wiith men, as a ship. 

FULLMART:  See Foumart. B. Jonson. 

FULLNESS:  The state of being full, or of abounding; abundance; completeness. [Written also fulness.] "In thy presence is fullness of joy." Ps. xvi. 11. 

FULLONICAL:  Pertaining to a fuller of cloth. [Obs.] Blount.  FULL-ORBED Full"-orbed` (, a.  Having the orb or disk complete or fully illuminated; like the full moon.  FULL-SAILED Full"-sailed`, a.  Having all its sails set,; hence, without restriction or reservation. Massinger.  FULL-WINGED Full"-winged`, a.  1. Having large and strong or complete wings. Shak.  2. Beady for flight; eager. [Archaic] Beau. & Fl. 

FULLY:  In a full manner or degree; completely; entirely; without lack or defect; adequately; satisfactorily; as, to be fully persuaded of the truth of a proposition. Fully committed (Law), committed to prison for trial, in distinction from being detained for examination.  Syn.  -- Completely; entirely; maturely; plentifuly; abundantly; plenteously; copiously; largely; amply; sufficiently; perfectly. 

FULMAR:  One of several species of sea birds, of the family procellariidæ, allied to the albatrosses and petrels. Among the well- known species are the arctic fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) (called also fulmar petrel, malduck, and mollemock), and the giant fulmar (Ossifraga gigantea). 

FULMINANT:  Thundering; fulminating. [R.] Bailey. 

FULMINATORY:  Thundering; striking terror. Cotgrave. 

FULMINE:  To thunder. [Obs.] Spenser. Milton. 

FULMINE:  To shoot; to dart like lightning; to fulminate; to utter with authority or vehemence. She fulmined out her scorn of laws Salique. Tennyson. 

FULMINEOUS:  Of, or concerning thunder. 

FULMINIC:  Pertaining to fulmination; detonating; specifically (Chem.), pertaining to, derived from, or denoting, an acid, so called; as, fulminic acid. Fulminic acid (Chem.), a complex acid, H2C2N2O2, isomeric with cyanic and cyanuric acids, and not known in the free state, but forming a large class of highly explosive salts, the fulminates. Of these, mercuric fulminate, the most common, is used, mixed with niter, to fill percussion caps, charge cartridges, etc.  -- Fulminic acid is made by the action of nitric acid on alcohol. 

FULMINURIC:  Pertaining to fulminic and cyanuric acids, and designating an acid so called. Fulminuric acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline, explosive subatance, H3C3N3O3, forming well known salts, and obtained from the fulnunates. It is isomeric with cyanuric acid, and hence is also called isocyanuric acid. 

FULNESS:  See Fullness. 

FULNESS:  See Fullness. 

FULSAMIC:  Fulsome. [Obs.] 

FULVID:  Fulvous. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

FULVOUS:  Tawny; dull yellow, with a mixture of gray and brown. Lindley. 

FUM:  To play upon a fiddle. [Obs.] Follow me, and fum as you go. B. Jonson. 

FUMACIOUS:  Smoky; hence, fond of smoking; addicted to smoking tobacco.  FUMADE; FUMADO Fu*made", Fu*ma"do (, n.; pl. Fumades, Fumadoes. Etym: [Sp. fumodo smoked, p. p. of fumar to smoke, fr. L. fumare. See Fume, v. i.]  A salted and smoked fish, as the pilchard. 

FUMAGE:  Hearth money. Fumage, or fuage, vulgarly called smoke farthings. Blackstone. 

FUMARATE:  A salt of fumaric acid. 

FUMARIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, fumitory (Fumaria officinalis). Fumaric acid (Chem.), a widely occurring organic acid, exttracted from fumitory as a white crystallline substance, C2H2(CO2H)2, and produced artificially in many ways, as by the distillation of malic acid; boletic acid. It is found also in the lichen, Iceland moss, and hence was also called lichenic acid. 

FUMARINE:  An alkaloid extracted from fumitory, as a white crystalline substance. 

FUMAROLE:  A hole or spot in a volcanic or other region, from which fumes issue. 

FUMATORIUM:  An air-tight compartment in which vapor may be generated to destroy germs or insects; esp., the apparatus used to destroy San José scale on nursery stock, with hydrocyanic acid vapor. 

FUMATORY:  See Fumitory. [Obs.] 

FUMBLE:  To handle or manage awkwardly; to crowd or tumble together. Shak. 

FUMBLER:  One who fumbles. 

FUMBLINGLY:  In the manner of one who fumbles. 

FUME:  Oak given a weathered appearance by exposure in an air-tight compartment to fumes of ammonia from uncorked cans, being first given a coat of filler. 

FUMELESS:  Free from fumes. 

FUMERELL:  See Femerell. 

FUMET:  The dung of deer. B. Jonson.  FUMET; FUMETTE Fu"met Fu*mette", n. Etym: [F. fumet odor, fume of wine or meat, fr. L. fumus smoke. See Fume, n.]  The stench or high flavor of game or other meat when kept long. Swift. 

FUMETERE:  Fumitory. [Obs.] 

FUMID:  Smoky; vaporous. Sir T. Broune.  FUMIDITY; FUMIDNESS Fu*mid"i*ty, Fu"mid*ness n.  The state of being fumid; smokiness. 

FUMIFEROUS:  Producing smoke. 

FUMIFUGIST:  One who, or that which, drives away smoke or fumes. 

FUMIFY:  To subject to the action of smoke. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FUMIGANT:  Fuming. [R.] 

FUMIGATOR:  One who, or that which, fumigates; an apparattus for fumigating. 

FUMIGATORY:  Having the quality of purifying by smoke. [R.] 

FUMILY:  Smokily; with fume. 

FUMING:  Producing fumes, or vapors. Cadet's fuming liquid (Chem.), alkarsin.  -- Fuming liquor of Libsvius (Old Chem.), stannic chloride; the chloride of tin, SnCl4, forming a colorless, mobile liquid which fumes in the air. Mixed with water it solidifies to the so-called butter of tin.  -- Fuming sulphuric acid. (Chem.) Same as Disulphuric acid, uder Disulphuric. 

FUMINGLY:  In a fuming manner; angrily. "They answer fumingly." Hooker. 

FUMISH:  Smoky; hot; choleric. 

FUMISH:  Smoky; hot; choleric. 

FUMISHNESS:  Choler; fretfulness; passion. 

FUMITER:  Fumitory. [Obs.] 

FUMITORY:  The common uame of several species of the genus Fumaria, annual herbs of the Old World, with finely dissected leaves and small flowers in dense racemes or spikes. F. officinalis is a common species, and was formerly used as an antiscorbutic. Climbing fumitory (Bot.), the Alleghany vine (Adlumia cirrhosa); a biennial climbing plant with elegant feathery leaves and large clusters of pretty white or pinkish flowers looking like grains of rice. 

FUMMEL:  A hinny. 

FUMOSITY:  The fumes of drink. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FUMY:  Producing fumes; fumous. "Drowned in fumy wine." H. Brooke. 

FUN:  Sport; merriment; frolicsome amusement. "Oddity, frolic, and fun." Goldsmith. To make fan of, to hold up to, or turn into, ridicule. 

FUNAMBULATE:  To walk or to dance on a rope. 

FUNAMBULATION:  Ropedancing. 

FUNAMBULIST:  A ropewalker or ropedancer.  FUNAMBULO; FUNAMBULUS Fu*nam"bu*lo, Fu*nam"bu*lus n. Etym: [Sp. funambulo, or It. funambolo, fr. L. funambulus; funis rope (perh. akin to E. bind) + ambulare to walk. See Amble, and cf. Funambulist.]  A ropewalker or ropedancer. [Obs.] Bacon. 

FUNCTION:  The appropriate action of any special organ or part of an animal or vegetable organism; as, the function of the heart or the limbs; the function of leaves, sap, roots, etc.; life is the sum of the functions of the various organs and parts of the body.  3. The natural or assigned action of any power or faculty, as of the soul, or of the intellect; the exertion of an energy of some determinate kind. As the mind opens, and its functions spread. Pope.  4. The course of action which peculiarly pertains to any public officer in church or state; the activity appropriate to any business or profession. Tradesmen . . . going about their functions. Shak. The malady which made him incapable of performing his regal functions. Macaulay.  5. (Math.)  A quantity so connected with another quantity, that if any alteration be made in the latter there will be a consequent alteration in the former. Each quantity is said to be a function of the other. Thus, the circumference of a circle is a function of the diameter. If x be a symbol to which different numerical values can be assigned, such expressions as x2, 3x, Log. x, and Sin. x, are all functions of x. Algebraic function, a quantity whose connection with the variable is expressed by an equation that involves only the algebraic operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, raising to a given power, and extracting a given root; -- opposed to transcendental function.  -- Arbitrary function. See under Arbitrary.  -- Calculus of functions. See under Calculus.  -- Carnot's function (Thermo-dynamics), a relation between the amount of heat given off by a source of heat, and the work which can be done by it. It is approximately equal to the mechanical equivalent of the thermal unit divided by the number expressing the temperature in degrees of the air thermometer, reckoned from its zero of expansion.  -- Circular functions. See Inverse trigonometrical functions (below).  -- Continuous function, a quantity that has no interruption in the continuity of its real values, as the variable changes between any specified limits.  -- Discontinuous function. See under Discontinuous.  -- Elliptic functions, a large and important class of functions, so called because one of the forms expresses the relation of the arc of an ellipse to the straight lines connected therewith.  -- Explicit function, a quantity directly expressed in terms of the independently varying quantity; thus, in the equations y = 6x2, y = 10 -x3, the quantity y is an explicit function of x.  -- Implicit function, a quantity whose relation to the variable is expressed indirectly by an equation; thus, y in the equation x2 + y2 = 100 is an implicit function of x.  -- Inverse trigonometrical functions, or Circular function, the lengths of arcs relative to the sines, tangents, etc. Thus, AB is the arc whose sine is BD, and (if the length of BD is x) is written sin - 1x, and so of the other lines. See Trigonometrical function (below). Other transcendental functions are the exponential functions, the elliptic functions, the gamma functions, the theta functions, etc.  -- One-valued function, a quantity that has one, and only one, value for each value of the variable.  -- Transcendental functions, a quantity whose connection with the variable cannot be expressed by algebraic operations; thus, y in the equation y = 10x is a transcendental function of x. See Algebraic function (above).  -- Trigonometrical function, a quantity whose relation to the variable is the same as that of a certain straight line drawn in a circle whose radius is unity, to the length of a corresponding are of the circle. Let AB be an arc in a circle, whose radius OA is unity let AC be a quadrant, and let OC, DB, and AF be drawnpependicular to OA, and EB and CG parallel to OA, and let OB be produced to G and F. E Then BD is the sine of the arc AB; OD or EB is the cosine, AF is the tangent, CG is the cotangent, OF is the secant OG is the cosecant, AD is the versed sine, and CE is the coversed sine of the are AB. If the length of AB be represented by x (OA being unity) then the lengths of Functions. these lines (OA being unity) are the trigonometrical functions of x, and are written sin x, cos x, tan x (or tang x), cot x, sec x, cosec x, versin x, coversin x. These quantities are also considered as functions of the angle BOA.  FUNCTION; FUNCTIONATE Func"tion, Func"tion*ate, v. i.  To execute or perform a function; to transact one's regular or appointed business. 

FUNCTIONAL:  Pertaining to the function of an organ or part, or to the functions in general. Functional disease (Med.), a disease of which the symptoms cannot be referred to any appreciable lesion or change of structure; the derangement of an organ arising from a cause, often unknown, external to itself opposed to organic disease, in which the organ itself is affected. 

FUNCTIONALIZE:  To assign to some function or office. [R.] 

FUNCTIONALLY:  In a functional manner; as regards normal or appropriate activity. The organ is said to be functionally disordered. Lawrence. 

FUNCTIONARY:  One charged with the performance of a function or office; as, a public functionary; secular functionaries. 

FUNCTIONLESS:  Destitute of function, or of an appropriate organ. Darwin. 

FUND:  The stock of a national debt; public securities; evidences (stocks or bonds) of money lent to government, for which interest is paid at prescribed intervals; -- called also public funds.  4. An invested sum, whose income is devoted to a specific object; as, the fund of an ecclesiastical society; a fund for the maintenance of lectures or poor students; also, money systematically collected to meet the expenses of some permanent object.  5. A store laid up, from which one may draw at pleasure; a supply; a full provision of resources; as, a fund of wisdom or good sense. An inexhaustible fund of stories. Macaulay. Sinking fund, the aggregate of sums of money set apart and invested, usually at fixed intervals, for the extinguishment of the debt of a government, or of a corporation, by the accumulation of interest. 

FUNDABLE:  Capable of being funded, or converted into a fund; convertible into bonds. 

FUNDAMENTAL:  Pertaining to the foundation or basis; serving for the foundation. Hence: Essential, as an element, principle, or law; important; original; elementary; as, a fundamental truth; a fundamental axiom. The fundamental reasons of this war. Shak. Some fundamental antithesis in nature. Whewell. Fundamental bass (Mus.), the root note of a chord; a bass formed of the roots or fundamental tones of the chords.  -- Fundamental chord (Mus.), a chord, the lowest tone of which is its root.  -- Fundamental colors, red, green, and violet-blue. See Primary colors, under Color. 

FUNDAMENTAL:  A leading or primary principle, rule, law, or article, which serves as the groundwork of a system; essential part, as, the fundamentals of the Christian faith. 

FUNDAMENTALLY:  Primarily; originally; essentially; radically; at the foundation; in origin or constituents. "Fundamentally defective." Burke. 

FUNDHOLDER:  One who has money invested in the public funds. J. S. Mill. 

FUNDLESS:  Destitute of funds. 

FUNDUS:  The bottom or base of any hollow organ; as, the fundus of the bladder; the fundus of the eye. 

FUNEBRIAL:  Pertaining to a funeral or funerals; funeral; funereal. [Obs.] [Written also funebral.] Sir T. Browne. 

FUNEBRIOUS:  Funebrial. [Obs.] 

FUNERAL:  Per. taining to a funeral; used at the interment of the dead; as, funeral rites, honors, or ceremonies. Shak. Funeral pile, a structure of combustible material, upon which a dead body is placed to be reduced to ashes, as part of a funeral rite; a pyre.  -- Fu"ner*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

FUNERATE:  To bury with funeral rites. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

FUNERATION:  The act of burying with funeral rites. [Obs.] Knatchbull. 

FUNEREAL:  Suiting a funeral; pertaining to burial; solemn. Hence: Dark; dismal; mournful. Jer. Taylor. What seem to us but sad funereal tapers May be heaven's distant lamps. Longfellow. -- Fu*ne"re*al*ly, adv. 

FUNEST:  Lamentable; doleful. [R.] "Funest and direful deaths." Coleridge. A forerunner of something very funest. Evelyn. 

FUNGAL:  Of or pertaining to fungi. 

FUNGATE:  A salt of fungic acid. [Formerly written also fungiate.] 

FUNGE:  A blockhead; a dolt; a fool. [Obs.] Burton. 

FUNGI:  See Fungus. 

FUNGIA:  A genus of simple, stony corals; -- so called because they are usually flat and circular, with radiating plates, like the gills of a mushroom. Some of them are eighteen inches in diameter. 

FUNGIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Fungidæ, a family of stony corals.  -- n.  One of the Fungidæ. 

FUNGIBLES:  Things which may be furnished or restored in kind, as distinguished from specific things; -- called also fungible things. Burrill.  2. (Scots Law)  Movable goods which may be valued by weight or measure, in contradistinction from those which must be judged of individually. Jamieson. 

FUNGIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, mushrooms; as, fungic acid. 

FUNGICIDE:  Anything that kills fungi.  -- Fun`gi*ci"dal, n. 

FUNGIFORM:  Shaped like a fungus or mushroom. Fungiform papillæ (Anat.), numerous small, rounded eminences on the upper surface of the tongue.  FUNGI IMPERFECTI Fun"gi Im`per*fec"ti, pl. [L. imperfecti imperfect.] (Bot.)  A heterogenous group of fungi of which the complete life history is not known. Some undoubtedly represent the conidium stages of various Ascomycetes. The group is divided into the orders Sphæropsidales, Melanconiales, and Moniliales. 

FUNGILLIFORM:  Shaped like a small fungus. 

FUNGIN:  A name formerly given to cellulose found in certain fungi and mushrooms. 

FUNGITE:  A fossil coral resembling Fungia. 

FUNGIVOROUS:  Eating fungi; -- said of certain insects and snails. 

FUNGOID:  Like a fungus; fungous; spongy. 

FUNGOLOGIST:  A mycologist. 

FUNGOLOGY:  Mycology. 

FUNGOSITY:  The quality of that which is fungous; fungous excrescence. Dunglison. 

FUNGUS:  Any one of the Fungi, a large and very complex group of thallophytes of low organization, -- the molds, mildews, rusts, smuts, mushrooms, toadstools, puff balls, and the allies of each.  Note: The fungi are all destitute of chorophyll, and, therefore, to be supplied with elaborated nourishment, must live as saprophytes or parasites. They range in size from single microscopic cells to systems of entangled threads many feet in extent, which develop reproductive bodies as large as a man's head. The vegetative system consists of septate or rarely unseptate filaments called hyphæ; the aggregation of hyphæ into structures of more or less definite form is known as the mycelium. See Fungi, in the Supplement.  2. (Med.)  A spongy, morbid growth or granulation in animal bodies, as the proud flesh of wounds. Hoblyn. 

FUNIC:  Funicular. 

FUNICLE:  The little stalk that attaches a seed to the placenta. 

FUNICULAR:  Pertaining to a funiculus; made up of, or resembling, a funiculus, or funiculi; as, a funicular ligament. Funicular action (Mech.), the force or action exerted by a rope in drawing together the supports to which its ends are Fastened, when acted upon by forces applied in a direction transverse to the rope, as in the archer's bow.  -- Funicular curve. Same as Catenary.  -- Funicular machine (Mech.), an apparatus for illustrating certain principles in statics, consisting of a cord or chain attached at one end to a fixed point, and having the other passed over a pulley and sustaining a weight, while one or more other weights are suspended from the cord at points between the fixed support and the pulley.  -- Funicular polygon (Mech.), the polygonal figure assumed by a cord fastened at its extremities, and sustaining weights at different points. 

FUNICULATE:  Forming a narrow ridge. 

FUNILIFORM:  Resembling a cord in toughness and flexibility, as the roots of some endogenous trees. 

FUNIS:  A cord; specifically, the umbilical cord or navel string. 

FUNK:  An offensive smell; a stench. [Low] 

FUNK:  To envelop with an offensive smell or smoke. [Obs.] King. 

FUNK:  A shrinking back through fear. [Colloq.] "The horrid panic, or funk (as the men of Eton call it)." De Quincey. 

FUNKY:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, great fear, or funking. [Colloq. Eng.] 

FUNNELFORM:  Having the form of a funnel, or tunnel; that is, expanding gradually from the bottom upward, as the corolla of some flowers; infundibuliform. 

FUNNY:  Droll; comical; amusing; laughable. Funny bone. See crazy bone, under Crazy. 

FUNNY:  A clinkerbuit, narrow boat for sculling. [Eng.] 

FUR:  Articles of clothing made of fur; as, a set of furs for a lady (a collar, tippet, or cape, muff, etc.). Wrapped up in my furs. Lady M. W. Montagu.  5. Any coating considered as resembling fur; as: (a) A coat of morbid matter collected on the tongue in persons affected with fever. (b) The soft, downy covering on the skin of a peach. (c) The deposit formed on the interior of boilers and other vessels by hard water.  6. (Her.)  One of several patterns or diapers used as tinctures. There are nine in all, or, according to some writers, only six. See Tincture. 

FUR:  Of or pertaining to furs; bearing or made of fur; as, a fur cap; the fur trade. Fur seal (Zoöl.) one of several species of seals of the genera Callorhinus and Arclocephalus, inhabiting the North Pacific and the Antarctic oceans. They have a coat of fine and soft fur which is highly prized. The northern fur seal (Callorhinus ursinus) breeds in vast numbers on the Prybilov Islands, off the coast of Alaska; -- called also sea bear. 

FURACIOUS:  Given to theft; thievish. [Obs.] 

FURACITY:  Addictedness to theft; thievishness. [Obs.] 

FURBELOW:  A plaited or gathered flounce on a woman's garment. 

FURBELOW:  To put a furbelow on; to ornament. 

FURBISH:  To rub or scour to brightness; to clean; to burnish; as, to furbish a sword or spear. Shak. Furbish new the name of John a Gaunt. Shak. 

FURBISHABLE:  Capable of being furbished. 

FURBISHER:  One who furbishes; esp., a sword cutler, who finishes sword blades and similar weapons.  FURCATE; FURCATED Fur"cate, Fur"ca*ted, a. Etym: [L. furca fork. See Fork.]  Forked; branching like a fork; as, furcate twigs. 

FURCATION:  A branching like a. fork. 

FURCIFEROUS:  Rascally; scandalous. [R.] "Furciferous knaves." De Quincey. 

FURCULA:  A forked process; the wishbone or furculum. 

FURCULAR:  Shaped like a fork; furcate. 

FURCULUM:  The wishbone or merrythought of birds, formed by the united clavicles. 

FURDLE:  To draw up into a bundle; to roll up. [Ods.] 

FURFUR:  Scurf; dandruff. 

FURFURACEOUS:  Made of bran; like bran; scurfy. 

FURFURAN:  A colorless, oily substance, C4H4O, obtained by distilling certain organic substances, as pine wood, salts of pyromucic acid, etc.; -- called also tetraphenol. 

FURFURATION:  Falling of scurf from the head; desquamation. 

FURFURINE:  A white, crystalline base, obtained indirectly from furfurol. 

FURFUROL:  A colorless oily liquid, C4H3O.CHO, of a pleasant odor, obtained by the distillation of bran, sugar, etc., and regarded as an aldehyde derivative of furfuran; -- called also furfural. 

FURFUROUS:  Made of bran; furfuraceous. [R.] "Furfurous bread." Sydney Smith. 

FURIAL:  Furious; raging; tormenting. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

FURIBUNDAL:  Full of rage. [Obs.] G. Harvey. 

FURIES:  See Fury, 3. 

FURILE:  A yellow, crystalline substance, (C4H3O)2.C2O2, obtained by the oxidation of furoin. [Written also furil.] 

FURILIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, furile; as, furilic acid. 

FURIOSO:  With great force or vigor; vehemently. 

FURL:  To draw up or gather into close compass; to wrap or roll, as a sail, close to the yard, stay, or mast, or, as a flag, close to or around its staff, securing it there by a gasket or line. Totten. 

FURLONG:  A measure of length; the eighth part of a mile; forty rods; two hundred and twenty yards. 

FURLOUGH:  Leave of abserice; especially, leave given to an offcer or soldier to be absent from service for a certain time; also, the document granting leave of absence. 

FURLOUGH:  To furnish with a furlough; to grant leave of absence to, as to an offcer or soldier.  FURMONTY; FURMITY Fur"mon*ty, Fur"mi*ty n.  Same as Frumenty. 

FURNIMENT:  Furniture. [Obs.] Spenser. 

FURNISH:  That which is furnished as a specimen; a sample; a supply. [Obs.] Greene. 

FURNISHER:  One who supplies or fits out. 

FURNISHMENT:  The act of furnishing, or of supplying furniture; also, furniture. [Obs.] Daniel. 

FURNITURE:  A mixed or compound stop in an organ; -- sometimes called mixture. 

FUROIN:  A colorless, crystalline substance, C10H8O4, from furfurol. 

FURORE:  Excitement; commotion; enthusiasm. 

FURRIER:  A dealer in furs; one who makes or sells fur goods. 

FURRING:  Double planking of a ship's side.  3. A deposit from water, as on the inside of a boiler; also, the operation of cleaning away this deposit. 

FURROWY:  Furrowed. [R.] Tennyson. 

FURTHER:  To a greater distance; in addition; moreover. See Farther. Carries us, I know not how much further, into familiar company. M. Arnold. They sdvanced us far as Eleusis and Thria; but no further. Jowett (Thucyd. ). Further off, not so near; apart by a greater distance. 

FURTHER:  To help forward; to promote; to advance; to forward; to help or assist. This binds thee, then, to further my design. Dryden. I should nothing further the weal public. Robynsom (More's Utopia). 

FURTHERANCE:  The act of furthering or helping forward; promotion; advancement; progress. I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furthersnce and joy of faith. Phil. i. 25. Built of furtherance and pursuing, Not of spent deeds, but of doing. Emerson. 

FURTHERER:  One who furthers. or helps to advance; a promoter. Shak. 

FURTHERMORE:  or conj. Moreover; besides; in addition to what has been said. 

FURTHERMOST:  Most remote; furthest. 

FURTHERSOME:  Tending to further, advance, or promote; helpful; advantageous. [R.] You will not find it furthersome. Carlyle. 

FURTHEST:  superl. Most remote; most in advance; farthest. See Further, a. 

FURTHEST:  At the greatest distance; farthest. 

FURTIVE:  Stolen; obtained or characterized by stealth; sly; secret; stealthy; as, a furtive look. Prior. A hasty and furtive ceremony. Hallam. 

FURTIVELY:  Stealthily by theft. Lover. 

FURUNCLE:  A superficial, inflammatory tumor, suppurating with a central core; a boil. 

FURUNCULAR:  Of or pertaining to a furuncle; marked by the presence of furuncles. 

FURY:  A thief. [Obs.] Have an eye to your plate, for there be furies. J. Fleteher. 

FURZE:  A thorny evergreen shrub (Ulex Europæus), with beautiful yellow flowers, very common upon the plains and hills of Great Britain; -- called also gorse, and whin. The dwarf furze is Ulex nanus. 

FURZECHAT:  The whinchat; -- called also furzechuck. 

FURZELING:  An English warbler (Melizophilus provincialis); -- called also furze wren, and Dartford warbler. 

FURZEN:  Furzy; gorsy. [Obs.] Holland. 

FURZY:  bounding in, or overgrown with, furze; characterized by furze. Gay. 

FUSAROLE:  A molding generally placed under the echinus or quarter round of capitals in the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders of architecture. 

FUSCATION:  A darkening; obscurity; obfuscation. [R.] Blount. 

FUSCIN:  A brown, nitrogenous pigment contained in the retinal epithelium; a variety of melanin. 

FUSCINE:  A dark-colored substance obtained from empyreumatic animal oil. [R.] 

FUSCOUS:  Brown or grayish black; darkish. Sad and fuscous colors, as black or brown, or deep purple and the like. Burke. 

FUSE:  A tube or casing filled with combustible matter, by means of which a charge of powder is ignited, as in blasting; -- called also fuzee. See Fuze. Fuse hole, the hole in a shell prepared for the reception of the fuse. Farrow. 

FUSEE:  A small packet of explosive material with wire appendages allowing it to be conveniently attached to a railroad track. It will explode with a loud report when run over by a train, and is used to provide a warning signal to the engineer. 

FUSEE:  The track of a buck. Ainsworth. 

FUSEE:  A hot, acrid, oily liquid, accompanying many alcoholic liquors (as potato whisky, corn whisky, etc.), as an undesirable ingredient, and consisting of several of the higher alcohols and compound ethers, but particularly of amyl alcohol; hence, specifically applied to amyl alcohol. 

FUSELAGE:  An elongated body or frame of an aëroplane or flying machine; sometimes, erroneously, any kind of frame or body. Many aëroplanes have no fuselage, properly so called.  FUSE PLUG; FUZE PLUG Fuse, or Fuze, plug .  1. (Ordnance)  A plug fitted to the fuse hole of a shell to hold the fuse.  2.  A fusible plug that screws into a receptacle, used as a fuse in electric wiring. 

FUSIBILITY:  The quality of being fusible. 

FUSIBLE:  CapabIe of being melted or liquefied. Fusible metal, any alloy of different metals capable of being easily fused, especially an alloy of five parts of bismuth, three of lead, and two of tin, which melts at a temperature below that of boiling water. Ure.  -- Fusible plug (Steam Boiler), a piece of easily fusible alloy, placed in one of the sheets and intended to melt and blow off the steam in case of low water. 

FUSIFORM:  Shaped like a spindle; tapering at each end; as, a fusiform root; a fusiform cell. 

FUSIL:  A light kind of flintlock musket, formerly in use. 

FUSIL:  A bearing of a rhomboidal figure; -- named from its shape, which resembles that of a spindle.  Note: It differs from a lozenge in being longer in proportion to its width. 

FUSILE:  Same as Fusil, a.  FUSILEER; FUSILIER Fu"sil*eer", Fu"sil*ier", n. Etym: [F. fusilier, fr. fusil.] (Mil.) (a) Formerly, a soldier armed with a fusil. Hence, in the plural: (b) A title now borne by some regiments and companies; as, "The Royal Fusiliers," etc. 

FUSILLADE:  A simultaneous discharge of firearms. 

FUSILLADE:  To shoot down of shoot at by a simultaneous discharge of firearms. 

FUSION:  The union, or binding together, of adjacent parts or tissues. 

FUSOME:  Handy; reat; handsome; notable. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

FUSS:  To be overbusy or unduly anxious about trifles; to make a bustle or ado. Sir W. Scott. 

FUSSILY:  In a fussy manner. Byron. 

FUSSINESS:  The quality of being fussy. 

FUSSY:  Making a fuss; disposed to make an unnecessary ado about trifles; overnice; fidgety. Not at all fussy about his personal appearance. R. G. White. 

FUST:  The shaft of a column, or trunk of pilaster. Gwilt. 

FUST:  A strong, musty smell; mustiness. 

FUST:  To become moldy; to smell ill. [Obs.] 

FUSTED:  Moldy; ill-smelling. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

FUSTERIC:  The coloring matter of fustet. Ure. 

FUSTET:  The wood of the Rhus Cptinus or Venice sumach, a shrub of Southern Europe, which yields a fine orange color, which, however, is not durable without a mordant. Ure. 

FUSTIANIST:  A writer of fustian. [R.] Milton. 

FUSTIC:  The wood of the Maclura tinctoria, a tree growing in the West Indies, used in dyeing yellow; -- called also old fustic. [Written also fustoc.]  Note: Other kinds of yellow wood are often called fustic; as that of species of Xanthoxylum, and especially the Rhus Cotinus, which is sometimes called young fustic to distinguish it from the Maclura. See Fustet. 

FUSTIGATE:  To cudgel. [R.] Bailey. 

FUSTIGATION:  A punishment by beating with a stick or club; cudgeling. This satire, composed of actual fustigation. Motley. 

FUSTILARIAN:  A low fellow; a stinkard; a scoundrel. [Obs.] Shak.  FUSTILUG; FUSTILUGS Fus"ti*lug` (, Fus"ti*lugs`, n. Etym: [Fusty + lug someting heavy, to be drawn or carried.]  A gross, fat, unwieldy person. [Obs.] F. Junius. 

FUSTINESS:  A fusty state or quality; moldiness; mustiness; an ill smell from moldiness. 

FUSURE:  Act of fusing; fusion. [R.] 

FUTCHEL:  The jaws between which the hinder end of a carriage tongue is inserted. Knight.  FUTHORC; FUTHORK Fu"thorc Fu"thork, n. [Written also futharc, futhark.]  The Runic alphabet; -- so called from the six letters f, u, þ (th), o (or a), r, c (=k).  The letters are called Runes and the alphabet bears the name Futhorc from the first six letters. I. Taylor.   The spelling futharc represents most accurately the original values of these six Runic letters. 

FUTILELY:  In a futile manner. 

FUTILOUS:  Futile; trifling. [Obs.] 

FUTTOCK:  One of the crooked timbers which are scarfed together to form the lower part of the compound rib of a vessel; one of the crooked transverse timbers passing across and over the keel. Futtock plates (Naut.), plates of iron to which the dead-eyes of the topmast rigging are secured.  -- Futtock shrouds, short iron shrouds leading from the upper part of the lower mast or of the main shrouds to the edge of the top, or through it, and connecting the topmast rigging with the lower mast. Totten. 

FUTURABLE:  Capable of being future; possible to occur. [R.] Not only to things future, but futurable. Fuller. 

FUTURE:  That is to be or come hereafter; that will exist at any time after the present; as, the next moment is future, to the present. Future tense (Gram.), the tense or modification of a verb which expresses a future act or event. 

FUTURE:  A future tense. To deal in futures, to speculate on the future values of merchandise or stocks. [Brokers' cant] 

FUTURELESS:  Without prospect of betterment in the future. W. D. Howells. 

FUTURELY:  In time to come. [Obs.] Raleigh. 

FUTURISM:  A movement or phase of post-impressionism (which see, below). 

FUTURIST:  One who believes or maintains that the fulfillment of the prophecies of the Bible is to be in the future. 

FUTURITIAL:  Relating to what is to come; pertaining to futurity; future. [R.] 

FUTURITION:  The state of being future; futurity. [R.] Nothing . . . can have this imagined futurition, but as it is decreed. Coleridge. 

FUZE:  A tube, filled with combustible matter, for exploding a shell, etc. See Fuse, n. Chemical fuze, a fuze in which substances separated until required for action are then brought into contact, and uniting chemically, produce explosion.  -- Concussion fuze, a fuze ignited by the striking of the projectile.  -- Electric fuze, a fuze which is ignited by heat or a spark produced by an electric current.  -- Friction fuze, a fuze which is ignited by the heat evolved by friction.  -- Percussion fuze, a fuze in which the ignition is produced by a blow on some fulminating compound.  -- Time fuze, a fuze adapted, either by its length or by the character of its composition, to burn a certain time before producing an explosion. 

FUZZ:  To make drunk. [Obs.] Wood. 

FUZZ:  Fine, light particles or fibers; loose, volatile matter. Fuzz ball, a kind of fungus or mushroom, which, when pressed, bursts and scatters a fine dust; a puffball. 

FUZZ:  To fly off in minute particles. 

FUZZLE:  To make drunk; to intoxicate; to fuddle. [Obs.] Burton. 

FUZZY:  A suffix signifying to make, to form into, etc.; as, acetify, amplify, dandify, Frenchify, etc. 

FY:  A word which expresses blame, dislike, disapprobation, abhorrence, or contempt. See Fie. 

FYKE:  A long bag net distended by hoops, into which fish can pass easily, without being able to return; -- called also fyke net. Cozzens. 

FYLLOT:  A rebated cross, formerly used as a secret emblem, and a common ornament. It is also called gammadion, and swastika.  FYRD; FYRDUNG Fyrd, Fyr"dung (, n. Etym: [AS.; akin to E. fare, v. i.] (Old. Eng. Hist.)  The military force of the whole nation, consisting of all men able to bear arms. The national fyrd or militia. J. R. Green. 

FYTTE:  See Fit a song. [Archaic] 

G:  G is the name of the fifth tone of the natural or model scale; -- called also sol by the Italians and French. It was also originally used as the treble clef, and has gradually changed into the character represented in the margin. See Clef. G# (G sharp) is a tone intermediate between G and A. 

GAB:  The hook on the end of an eccentric rod opposite the strap. See. Illust. of Eccentric. 

GAB:  The mouth; hence, idle prate; chatter; unmeaning talk; loquaciousness. [Colloq.] Gift of gab, facility of expression. [Colloq.] 

GABARAGE:  A kind of coarse cloth for packing goods. [Obs.]  GABARDINE; GABERDINE Gab`ar*dine", Gab`er*dine" (, n. Etym: [Sp. gabardina; cf. It. gavardina, OF. galvardine, calvardine, gavardine, galeverdine; perh. akin to Sp. & OF. gaban a sort of cloak or coat for rainy weather, F. caban great coat with a hood and sleeves, It. gabbano and perh. to E. cabin.]  A coarse frock or loose upper garment formerly worn by Jews; a mean dress. Shak. 

GABBLER:  One who gabbles; a prater. 

GABBRO:  A name originally given by the Italians to a kind of serpentine, later to the rock called euphotide, and now generally used for a coarsely crystalline, igneous rock consisting of lamellar pyroxene (diallage) and labradorite, with sometimes chrysolite (olivine gabbro). 

GABEL:  A rent, service, tribute, custom, tax, impost, or duty; an excise. Burrill. He enables St. Peter to pay his gabel by the ministry of a fish. Jer. Taylor. 

GABELER:  A collector of gabels or taxes. 

GABELLE:  A tax, especially on salt. [France] Brande & C. 

GABELLEMAN:  A gabeler. Carlyle. 

GABERDINE:  See Gabardine.  GABER-LUNZIE Gab"er-lun`zie, n. Etym: [Gael. gabair talker + lunndair idler.]  A beggar with a wallet; a licensed beggar. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

GABERT:  A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

GABION:  A hollow cylinder of wickerwork, like a basket without a bottom. Gabions are made of various sizes, and filled with earth in building fieldworks to shelter men from an enemy's fire.  2. (Hydraul. Engin.)  An openwork frame, as of poles, filled with stones and sunk, to assist in forming a bar dyke, etc., as in harbor improvement. 

GABIONADE:  A traverse made with gabions between guns or on their flanks, protecting them from enfilading fire.  2. A structure of gabions sunk in lines, as a core for a sand bar in harbor improvements. 

GABIONAGE:  The part of a fortification built of gabions. 

GABIONED:  Furnished with gabions. 

GABIONNADE:  See Gabionade. 

GABLE:  A cable. [Archaic] Chapman. 

GABLET:  A small gable, or gable-shaped canopy, formed over a tabernacle, niche, etc. 

GABLOCK:  A false spur or gaff, fitted on the heel of a gamecock. Wright. 

GABY:  A simpleton; a dunce; a lout. [Colloq.] 

GAD:  To walk about; to rove or go about, without purpose; hence, to run wild; to be uncontrolled. "The gadding vine." Milton. Why gaddest thou about so much to change thy way Jer. ii. 36. 

GADABOUT:  A gadder [Colloq.] 

GADBEE:  The gadfly. 

GADDER:  One who roves about idly, a rambling gossip. 

GADDING:  Going about much, needlessly or without purpose. Envy is a gadding passion, and walketh the streets. Bacon. The good nuns would check her gadding tongue. Tennyson. Gadding car, in quarrying, a car which carries a drilling machine so arranged as to drill a line of holes. 

GADDINGLY:  In a roving, idle manner. 

GADDISH:  Disposed to gad.  -- Gad"dish*nes, n. "Gaddishness and folly." Abp. Leighton. 

GADE:  To gather. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GADFLY:  Any dipterous insect of the genus Oestrus, and allied genera of botflies.  Note: The sheep gadfly (Oestrus ovis) deposits its young in the nostrils of sheep, and the larvæ develop in the frontal sinuses. The common species which infests cattle (Hypoderma bovis) deposits its eggs upon or in the skin where the larvæ or bots live and produce sores called wormels. The gadflies of the horse produce the intestinal parasites called bots. See Botfly, and Bots. The true horseflies are often erroneously called gadflies, and the true gadflies are sometimes incorrectly called breeze flies. Gadfly petrel (Zoöl.), one of several small petrels of the genus Oestrelata. 

GADHELIC:  Of or pertaining to that division of the Celtic languages, which includes the Irish, Gaelic, and Manx. J. Peile. 

GADIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus); -- applied to an acid obtained from cod-liver oil, viz., gadic acid. 

GADITANIAN:  Of or relating to Cadiz, in Spain.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Cadiz. 

GADLING:  See Gad, n., 4. 

GADLING:  Gadding about. [Obs.] 

GADLING:  A roving vagabond. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

GADMAN:  A gadsman. 

GADOID:  Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidæ) which includes the cod, haddock, and hake.  -- n.  One of the Gadidæ. [Written also gadid.] 

GADOLINIA:  A rare earth, regarded by some as an oxide of the supposed element gadolinium, by others as only a mixture of the oxides of yttrium, erbium, ytterbium, etc. 

GADOLINIC:  Pertaining to or containing gadolinium. 

GADOLINITE:  A mineral of a nearly black color and vitreous luster, and consisting principally of the silicates of yttrium, cerium, and iron. 

GADOLINIUM:  A supposed rare metallic element, with a characteristic spectrum, found associated with yttrium and other rare metals. Its individuality and properties have not yet been determined. 

GADSMAN:  One who uses a gad or goad in driving. 

GADUIN:  A yellow or brown amorphous substance, of indifferent nature, found in cod-liver oil. 

GADWALL:  A large duck (Anas strepera), valued as a game bird, found in the northern parts of Europe and America; -- called also gray duck. [Written also gaddwell.] 

GAEKWAR:  The title of the ruling Prince of Baroda, in Gujarat, in Bombay, India. 

GAEL:  A Celt or the Celts of the Scotch Highlands or of Ireland; now esp., a Scotch Highlander of Celtic origin. 

GAELIC:  Of or pertaining to the Gael, esp. to the Celtic Highlanders of Scotland; as, the Gaelic language. 

GAELIC:  The language of the Gaels, esp. of the Highlanders of Scotland. It is a branch of the Celtic. 

GAFF:  The spar upon which the upper edge of a fore-and-aft sail is extended.  3. Same as Gaffle, 1. Wright. 

GAFF:  To strike with a gaff or barbed spear; to secure by means of a gaff; as, to gaff a salmon. 

GAFFLE:  A small triangular sail having its foot extended upon the gaff and its luff upon the topmast. 

GAGATE:  Agate. [Obs.] Fuller. 

GAGE:  A variety of plum; as, the greengage; also, the blue gage, frost gage, golden gage, etc., having more or less likeness to the greengage. See Greengage. 

GAGE:  A measure or standart. See Gauge, n. 

GAGE:  To measure. See Gauge, v. t. You shall not gage me By what we do to-night. Shak. 

GAGER:  A measurer. See Gauger. 

GAGGER:  A piece of iron imbedded in the sand of a mold to keep the sand in place. 

GAGGLE:  To make a noise like a goose; to cackle. Bacon. 

GAGGLE:  A flock of wild geese. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  GAG LAW Gag law. (Parliamentary Law)  A law or ruling prohibiting proper or free debate, as in closure. [Colloq. or Cant] 

GAGTOOTH:  A projecting tooth. [Obs.]  GAG-TOOTHED Gag"-toothed", a.  Having gagteeth. [Obs.] 

GAHNITE:  Zinc spinel; automolite. 

GAIDIC:  Pertaining to hypogeic acid; -- applied to an acid obtained from hypogeic acid. 

GAIETY:  Same as Gayety. 

GAILER:  A jailer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GAILLARD:  Gay; brisk; merry; galliard. Chaucer. 

GAILLIARDE:  A lively French and Italian dance. 

GAILY:  Merrily; showily. See gaily. 

GAIN:  A square or beveled notch cut out of a girder, binding joist, or other timber which supports a floor beam, so as to receive the end of the floor beam. 

GAIN:  Convenient; suitable; direct; near; handy; dexterous; easy; profitable; cheap; respectable. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

GAIN:  To have or receive advantage or profit; to acquire gain; to grow rich; to advance in interest, health, or happiness; to make progress; as, the sick man gains daily. Thou hast greedily gained of thy neighbors by extortion. Ezek. xxii. 12. Gaining twist, in rifled firearms, a twist of the grooves, which increases regularly from the breech to the muzzle. To gain on or upon. (a) To encroach on; as, the ocean gains on the land. (b) To obtain influence with. (c) To win ground upon; to move faster than, as in a race or contest. (d) To get the better of; to have the advantage of. The English have not only gained upon the Venetians in the Levant, but have their cloth in Venice itself. Addison. My good behavior had so far gained on the emperor, that I began to conceive hopes of liberty. Swift. 

GAINABLE:  Capable of being obtained or reached. Sherwood. 

GAINER:  One who gains. Shak. 

GAINFUL:  Profitable; advantageous; lucrative. "A gainful speculation." Macaulay.  -- Gain"ful*ly, adv.  -- Gain"ful*ness, n. 

GAINGIVING:  A misgiving. [Obs.] 

GAINLESS:  Not producing gain; unprofitable. Hammond.  -- Gain"less/ness, n. 

GAINLY:  Handily; readily; dexterously; advantageously. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

GAINPAIN:  Bread-gainer; -- a term applied in the Middle Ages to the sword of a hired soldier. 

GAINSAY:  To contradict; to deny; to controvert; to dispute; to forbid. I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. Luke xxi. 15. The just gods gainsay That any drop thou borrow'dst from thy mother, My sacred aunt, should by my mortal sword Be drained. Shak. 

GAINSAYER:  One who gainsays, contradicts, or denies. "To convince the gainsayers." Tit. i. 9.  GAINSBOROUGH HAT Gains"borough hat.  A woman's broad-brimmed hat of a form thought to resemble those shown in portraits by Thomas Gainsborough, the English artist (1727- 88). 

GAINSOME:  A contraction of Against. 

GAINSTAND:  To withstand; to resist. [Obs.] Durst . . . gainstand the force of so many enraged desires. Sir P. Sidney. 

GAINSTRIVE:  To strive or struggle against; to withstand. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GAIRFOWL:  See Garefowl.  GAIRISH; GAIRISHLY; GAIRISHNESS Gair"ish, a., Gair"ish*ly, adv., Gair"ishness, n.  Same as Garish, Garishly, Garishness. 

GAITED:  Having (such) a gait; -- used in composition; as, slow-gaited; heavy-gaited. 

GAITER:  To dress with gaiters.  GAITRE; GAYTRE Gai"tre, Gay"tre (, n. Etym: [OE. Cf. Gatten tree.]  The dogwood tree. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GALA:  Pomp, show, or festivity. Macaulay. Gala day, a day of mirth and festivity; a holiday.  GALACTA-GOGUE Ga*lac"ta-gogue, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)  An agent exciting secretion of milk. 

GALACTODENSIMETER:  Same as Galactometer. 

GALACTOMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the quality of milk (i.e., its richness in cream) by determining its specific gravity; a lactometer. 

GALACTOPHAGIST:  One who eats, or subsists on, milk. 

GALACTOPHAGOUS:  Feeding on milk. 

GALACTOPHOROUS:  Milk-carrying; lactiferous; -- applied to the ducts of mammary glands. 

GALACTOPOIETIC:  Increasing the flow of milk; milk-producing.  -- n. A galactopoietic substance. 

GALACTOSE:  A white, crystalline sugar, C6H12O6, isomeric with dextrose, obtained by the decomposition of milk sugar, and also from certain gums. When oxidized it forms mucic acid. Called also lactose (though it is not lactose proper). 

GALAGE:  See Galoche. Spenser. 

GALAGO:  A genus of African lemurs, including numerous species.  Note: The grand galago (Galago crassicaudata) is about the size of a cat; the mouse galago (G. murinus)is about the size of a mouse.  GALANGA; GALANGAL Ga*lan"ga, Ga*lan"gal, n.Etym: [OE. galingale, OF. galingal, garingal, F. galanga (cf. Sp. galanga), prob. fr. Ar. khalanj. ]  The pungent aromatic rhizome or tuber of certain East Indian or Chinese species of Alpinia (A. Galanga and A. officinarum) and of the Kæmpferia Galanga), -- all of the Ginger family. 

GALANTINE:  A dish of veal, chickens, or other white meat, freed from bones, tied up, boiled, and served cold. Smart.  GALAPEE TREE Gal"a*pee` tree", (Bot.)  The West Indian Sciadophyllum Brownei, a tree with very large digitate leaves. 

GALATEA:  A kind of striped cotton fabric, usually of superior quality and striped with blue or red on white. 

GALATIAN:  Of or pertaining to Galatia or its inhabitants.  -- A native or inhabitant of Galatia, in Asia Minor; a descendant of the Gauls who settled in Asia Minor. 

GALAXY:  The Milky Way; that luminous tract, or belt, which is seen at night stretching across the heavens, and which is composed of innumerable stars, so distant and blended as to be distinguishable only with the telescope. The term has recently been used for remote clusters of stars. Nichol.  2. A splendid assemblage of persons or things.  GALBAN; GALBANUM Gal"ban, Gal"ba*num, n. Etym: [L. galbanum, Gr. klekb'n: cf. F. galbanum.]  A gum resin exuding from the stems of certain Asiatic umbelliferous plants, mostly species of Ferula. The Bubon Galbanum of South Africa furnishes an inferior kind of galbanum. It has an acrid, bitter taste, a strong, unpleasant smell, and is used for medical purposes, also in the arts, as in the manufacture of varnish. 

GALBE:  The general outward form of any solid object, as of a column or a vase. 

GALE:  To sale, or sail fast. 

GALE:  A song or story. [Obs.] Toone. 

GALE:  To sing. [Obs.] "Can he cry and gale." Court of Love. 

GALE:  A plant of the genus Myrica, growing in wet places, and strongly resembling the bayberry. The sweet gale (Myrica Gale) is found both in Europe and in America. 

GALE:  The payment of a rent or annuity. [Eng.] Mozley & W. Gale day, the day on which rent or interest is due. 

GALEA:  The upper lip or helmet-shaped part of a labiate flower.  2. (Surg.)  A kind of bandage for the head.  3. (Pathol.)  Headache extending all over the head.  4. (Paleon.)  A genus of fossil echini, having a vaulted, helmet-shaped shell.  5. (Zoöl.)  The anterior, outer process of the second joint of the maxillae in certain insects. 

GALEAS:  See Galleass.  GALEATE; GALEATED Ga"le*ate, Ga"le*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. galeatus, p.p. of galeare helmet.]  1. Wearing a helmet; protected by a helmet; covered, as with a helmet.  2. (Biol.)  Helmeted; having a helmetlike part, as a crest, a flower, etc.; helmet-shaped. 

GALEI:  That division of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sharks. 

GALENA:  A remedy or antidose for poison; theriaca. [Obs.] Parr.  2. (Min.)  Lead sulphide; the principal ore of lead. It is of a bluish gray color and metallic luster, and is cubic in crystallization and cleavage. False galena. See Blende.  GALENIC; GALENICAL Ga*len"ic, Ga*len"ic*al (, a.  Pertaining to, or containing, galena.  GALENIC; GALENICAL Ga*len"ic, Ga*len"ic*al, an. Etym: [From Galen, the physician.]  Relating to Galen or to his principles and method of treating diseases. Dunglison. Galenic pharmacy, that branch of pharmacy which relates to the preparation of medicines by infusion, decoction, etc., as distinguished from those which are chemically prepared. 

GALENISM:  The doctrines of Galen. 

GALENIST:  A follower of Galen. 

GALENITE:  Galena; lead ore. 

GALEOPITHECUS:  A genus of flying Insectivora, formerly called flying lemurs. See Colugo. 

GALERICULATE:  Covered as with a hat or cap. Smart. 

GALERITE:  A cretaceous fossil sea urchin of the genus Galerites. 

GALICIAN:  Of or pertaining to Galicia, in Spain, or to Galicia, the kingdom of Austrian Poland.  -- n.  A native of Galicia in Spain; -- called also Gallegan. 

GALILEAN:  Of or pertaining to Galileo; as, the Galilean telescope. See Telescope. 

GALILEAN:  Of or relating to Galilee. 

GALILEAN:  One of the party among the Jews, who opposed the payment of tribute to the Romans; -- called also Gaulonite.  3. A Christian in general; -- used as a term of reproach by Mohammedans and Pagans. Byron. 

GALILEE:  A porch or waiting room, usually at the west end of an abbey church, where the monks collected on returning from processions, where bodies were laid previous to interment, and where women were allowed to see the monks to whom they were related, or to hear divine service. Also, frequently applied to the porch of a church, as at Ely and Durham cathedrals. Gwilt. 

GALIMATIAS:  Nonsense; gibberish; confused and unmeaning talk; confused mixture. Her dress, like her talk, is a galimatias of several countries. Walpole. 

GALINGALE:  A plant of the Sedge family (Cyperus longus) having aromatic roots; also, any plant of the same genus. Chaucer. Meadow, set with slender galingale. Tennyson. 

GALIPOT:  An impure resin of turpentine, hardened on the outside of pine trees by the spontaneous evaporation of its essential oil. When purified, it is called yellow pitch, white pitch, or Burgundy pitch. 

GALL:  The bitter, alkaline, viscid fluid found in the gall bladder, beneath the liver. It consists of the secretion of the liver, or bile, mixed with that of the mucous membrane of the gall bladder.  2. The gall bladder.  3. Anything extremely bitter; bitterness; rancor. He hath . . . compassed me with gall and travail. Lam. iii. 5. Comedy diverted without gall. Dryden.  4. Impudence; brazen assurance. [Slang] Gall bladder (Anat.), the membranous sac, in which the bile, or gall, is stored up, as secreted by the liver; the cholecystis. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus.  -- Gall duct, a duct which conveys bile, as the cystic duct, or the hepatic duct.  -- Gall sickness, a remitting bilious fever in the Netherlands. Dunglison.  -- Gall of the earth (Bot.), an herbaceous composite plant with variously lobed and cleft leaves, usually the Prenanthes serpentaria. 

GALL:  An excrescence of any form produced on any part of a plant by insects or their larvae. They are most commonly caused by small Hymenoptera and Diptera which puncture the bark and lay their eggs in the wounds. The larvae live within the galls. Some galls are due to aphids, mites, etc. See Gallnut.  Note: The galls, or gallnuts, of commerce are produced by insects of the genus Cynips, chiefly on an oak (Quercus infectoria or Lusitanica) of Western Asia and Southern Europe. They contain much tannin, and are used in the manufacture of that article and for making ink and a black dye, as well as in medicine. Gall insect (Zoöl.), any insect that produces galls.  -- Gall midge (Zoöl.), any small dipterous insect that produces galls.  -- Gall oak, the oak (Quercus infectoria) which yields the galls of commerce.  -- Gall of glass, the neutral salt skimmed off from the surface of melted crown glass;- called also glass gall and sandiver. Ure.-- Gall wasp. (Zoöl.) See Gallfly. 

GALL:  To impregnate with a decoction of gallnuts. Ure. 

GALL:  To scoff; to jeer. [R.] Shak. 

GALL:  A wound in the skin made by rubbing. 

GALLANT:  Polite and attentive to ladies; courteous to women; chivalrous. 

GALLANTLY:  In a polite or courtly manner; like a gallant or wooer. 

GALLANTLY:  In a gallant manner. 

GALLANTNESS:  The quality of being gallant. 

GALLATE:  A salt of gallic acid. 

GALLATURE:  The tread, treadle, or chalasa of an egg. 

GALLEASS:  A large galley, having some features of the galleon, as broadside guns; esp., such a vessel used by the southern nations of Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries. See Galleon, and Galley. [Written variously galeas, gallias, etc.]  Note: "The galleasses . . . were a third larger than the ordinary galley, and rowed each by three hundred galley slaves. They consisted of an enormous towering structure at the stern, a castellated structure almost equally massive in front, with seats for the rowers amidships." Motley.  GALLEGAN; GALLEGO Gal*le"gan, Gal*le"go ( or ), n. Etym: [Sp. Gallego.]  A native or inhabitant of Galicia, in Spain; a Galician. 

GALLEIN:  A red crystalline dyestuff, obtained by heating together pyrogallic and phthalic acids. 

GALLEON:  A sailing vessel of the 15th and following centuries, often having three or four decks, and used for war or commerce. The term is often rather indiscriminately applied to any large sailing vessel. The gallens . . . were huge, round-stemmed, clumsy vessels, with bulwarks three or four feet thick, and built up at stem and stern, like castels. Motley. 

GALLEOT:  See Galiot. 

GALLERY:  A frame, like a balcony, projecting from the stern or quarter of a ship, and hence called stern galery or quarter gallry, -- seldom found in vessels built since 1850.  5. (Fort.)  Any communication which is covered overhead as well as at the sides. When prepared for defense, it is a defensive galery.  6. (Mining)  A working drift or level. Whispering gallery. See under Whispering. 

GALLETYLE:  A little tile of glazed earthenware. [Obs.] "The substance of galletyle." Bacon. 

GALLEY:  A vessel propelled by oars, whether having masts and sails or not; as: (a) A large vessel for war and national purposes; -- common in the Middle Ages, and down to the 17th century. (b) A name given by analogy to the Greek, Roman, and other ancient vessels propelled by oars. (c) A light, open boat used on the Thames by customhouse officers, press gangs, and also for pleasure. (d) One of the small boats carried by a man-of-war.  Note: The typical galley of the Mediterranean was from one hundred to two hundred feet long, often having twenty oars on each side. It had two or three masts rigged with lateen sails, carried guns at prow and stern, and a complement of one thousand to twelve hundred men, and was very efficient in mediaeval walfare. Galleons, galliots, galleasses, half galleys, and quarter galleys were all modifications of this type.  2. The cookroom or kitchen and cooking apparatus of a vessel; -- sometimes on merchant vessels called the caboose.  3. (Chem.)  An oblong oven or muffle with a battery of retorts; a gallery furnace.  4. Etym: [F. galée; the same word as E. galley a vessel.] (Print.) (a) An oblong tray of wood or brass, with upright sides, for holding type which has been set, or is to be made up, etc. (b) A proof sheet taken from type while on a galley; a galley proof. Galley slave, a person condemned, often as a punishment for crime, to work at the oar on board a galley. "To toil like a galley slave." Macaulay.-- Galley slice (Print.), a sliding false bottom to a large galley. Knight.  GALLEY-BIRD Gal"ley-bird`, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)  The European green woodpecker; also, the spotted woodpecker. [Prov. Eng.]  GALLEY-WORM Gal"ley-worm`, n. Etym: [Prob. so called because the numerous legs along the sides move rhythmically like the oars of a galley.] (Zoöl.)  A chilognath myriapod of the genus Iulus, and allied genera, having numerous short legs along the sides; a milliped or "thousand legs." See Chilognatha. 

GALLFLY:  An insect that deposits its eggs in plants, and occasions galls, esp. any small hymenopteran of the genus Cynips and allied genera. See Illust. of Gall. 

GALLIAMBIC:  Consisting of two iambic dimeters catalectic, the last of which lacks the final syllable; -- said of a kind of verse. 

GALLIAN:  Gallic; French. [Obs.] Shak. 

GALLIARD:  Gay; brisk; active. [Obs.] 

GALLIARD:  A brisk, gay man. [Obs.] Selden is a galliard by himself. Cleveland. 

GALLIARD:  A gay, lively dance. Cf. Gailliarde. Never a hall such a galliard did grace. Sir. W. Scott. 

GALLIARDISE:  Excessive gayety; merriment. [Obs.] The mirth and galliardise of company. Sir. T. Browne. 

GALLIARDNESS:  Gayety. [Obs.] Gayton. 

GALLIASS:  Same as Galleass. 

GALLIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, gallium. 

GALLIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, galls, nutgalls, and the like. Gallic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, very widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, being found in the free state in galls, tea, etc., and produced artificially. It is a white, crystalline substance, C6H2(HO)3.CO2H, with an astringent taste, and is a strong reducing agent, as employed in photography. It is usually prepared from tannin, and both give a dark color with iron salts, forming tannate and gallate of iron, which are the essential ingredients of common black ink. 

GALLIC:  Pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallican. 

GALLICAN:  Of or pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallic; French; as, the Gallican church or clergy. 

GALLICAN:  An adherent to, and supporter of, Gallicanism. Shipley. 

GALLICANISM:  The principles, tendencies, or action of those, within the Roman Catholic Church in France, who (esp. in 1682) sought to restrict the papal authority in that country and increase the power of the national church. Schaff-Herzog Encyc. 

GALLICISM:  A mode of speech peculiar to the French; a French idiom; also, in general, a French mode or custom. 

GALLICIZE:  To conform to the French mode or idiom. 

GALLIED:  Worried; flurried; frightened. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

GALLIFORM:  Like the Gallinae (or Galliformes) in structure. 

GALLIGASKINS:  Loose hose or breeches; leather leg quards. The word is used loosely and often in a jocose sense. 

GALLIMATIA:  Senseless talk. [Obs. or R.] See Galimatias. 

GALLIN:  A substance obtained by the reduction of galleïn. 

GALLINACEAE:  Same as Gallinae. 

GALLINACEAN:  One of the Gallinae or gallinaceous birds. 

GALLINACEOUS:  Resembling the domestic fowls and pheasants; of or pertaining to the Gallinae. 

GALLINAE:  An order of birds, including the common domestic fowls, pheasants, grouse, quails, and allied forms; -- sometimes called Rasores. 

GALLING:  Fitted to gall or chafe; vexing; harassing; irritating.  -- Gall"ing*ly, adv. 

GALLINIPPER:  A large mosquito. 

GALLINULE:  One of several wading birds, having long, webless toes, and a frontal shield, belonging to the family Rallidae. They are remarkable for running rapidly over marshes and on floating plants. The purple gallinule of America is Ionornis Martinica, that of the Old World is Porphyrio porphyrio. The common European gallinule (Gallinula chloropus) is also called moor hen, water hen, water rail, moor coot, night bird, and erroneously dabchick. Closely related to it is the Florida gallinule (Gallinula galeata).  Note: The purple gallinule of Southern Europe and Asia was formerly believed to be able to detect and report adultery, and for that reason, chiefly, it was commonly domesticated by the ancients. 

GALLIOT:  See Galiot.  GALLIPOLI OIL Gal*lip"o*li oil`.  An inferior kind of olive oil, brought from Gallipoli, in Italy. 

GALLIPOT:  A glazed earthen pot or vessel, used by druggists and apothecaries for containing medicines, etc. 

GALLIUM:  A rare metallic element, found in certain zinc ores. It is white, hard, and malleable, resembling aluminium, and remarcable for its low melting point (86  Note: The element was predicted with most of its properties, under the name ekaluminium, by the Russian chemist Mendelejeff, on the basis of the Periodic law. This prediction was verified in its discovery by the French chemist Lecoq de Boisbaudran by its characteristic spectrum (two violet lines), in an examination of a zinc blende from the Pyrenees. 

GALLIVANT:  To play the beau; to wait upon the ladies; also, to roam about for pleasure without any definite plan. [Slang] Dickens. 

GALLIVAT:  A small armed vessel, with sails and oars, -- used on the Malabar coast. A. Chalmers. 

GALLIWASP:  A West Indian lizard (Celestus occiduus), about a foot long, imagined by the natives to be venomous. 

GALLIZE:  In wine making, to add water and sugar to (unfermented grape juice) so as to increase the quantity of wine produced. -- Gal`li*za"tion (#), n. 

GALLNUT:  A round gall produced on the leaves and shoots of various species of the oak tree. See Gall, and Nutgall. 

GALLOMANIA:  An excessive admiration of what is French.  -- Gal`lo*ma"ni*ac, n. 

GALLON:  A measure of capacity, containing four quarts; -- used, for the most part, in liquid measure, but sometimes in dry measure.  Note: The standart gallon of the Unites States contains 231 cubic inches, or 8.3389 pounds avoirdupois of distilled water at its maximum density, and with the barometer at 30 inches. This is almost exactly equivalent to a cylinder of seven inches in diameter and six inches in height, and is the same as the old English wine gallon. The beer gallon, now little used in the United States, contains 282 cubic inches. The English imperial gallon contains 10 pounds avoirdupois of distilled water at 62 

GALLOONED:  Furnished or adorned with galloon. 

GALLOP:  To cause to gallop. 

GALLOP:  A mode of running by a quadruped, particularly by a horse, by lifting alternately the fore feet and the hind feet, in successive leaps or bounds. Hand gallop, a slow or gentle gallop. 

GALLOPER:  A carriage on which very small guns were formerly mounted, the gun resting on the shafts, without a limber. Farrow. Galloper gun, a light gun, supported on a galloper, -- formerly attached to British infantry regiments. 

GALLOPIN:  An under servant for the kitchen; a scullion; a cook's errand boy. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

GALLOPING:  Going at a gallop; progressing rapidly; as, a galloping horse. 

GALLOTANNIC:  Pertaining to the tannin or nutgalls. Gallotannic acid. See Tannic acid, under Tannic. 

GALLOW:  To fright or terrify. See Gally, v. t. [Obs.] Shak. 

GALLOWAY:  A small horse of a breed raised at Galloway, Scotland; -- called also garran, and garron. 

GALLOWGLASS:  A heavy-armed foot soldier from Ireland and the Western Isles in the time of Edward Shak. 

GALLOWS:  The rest for the tympan when raised.  4. pl.  A pair of suspenders or braces. [Colloq.] Gallows bird, a person who deserves the gallows. [Colloq.] -- Gallows bitts (Naut.), one of two or more frames amidships on deck for supporting spare spars; -- called also gallows, gallows top, gallows frame, etc.  -- Gallows frame. (a) The frame supporting the beam of an engine. (b) (Naut.) Gallows bitts.  -- Gallows, or Gallow tree, the gallows. At length him nailéd on a gallow tree. Spenser. 

GALLSTONE:  A concretion, or calculus, formed in the gall bladder or biliary passages. See Calculus, n., 1. 

GALLY:  To frighten; to worry. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] T. Brown. 

GALLY:  Like gall; bitter as gall. Cranmer. 

GALLY:  See Galley, n., 4. 

GALLYGASKINS:  See Galligaskins.  GALOCHE; GALOSHE Ga*loche", Ga*loshe" (, Etym: [OE. galoche, galache, galage, shoe, F. galoche galoche, perh. altered fr. L. gallica a Gallic shoe, or fr. LL. calopedia wooden shoe, or shoe with a wooden sole, Gr.  1. A clog or patten. [Obs.] Nor were worthy [to] unbuckle his galoche. Chaucer.  2. Hence: An overshoe worn in wet weather.  3. A gaiter, or legging, covering the upper part of the shoe and part of the leg. 

GALOOT:  A noisy, swaggering, or worthless fellow; a rowdy. [Slang, U. S.] 

GALOP:  A kind of lively dance, in 2-4 time; also, the music to the dance. 

GALORE:  Plenty; abundance; in abundance. 

GALOSHE:  Same as Galoche. 

GALPE:  To gape,; to yawn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GALSOME:  Angry; malignant. [Obs.] Bp. Morton. 

GALT:  Same as Gault. 

GALVANIC:  Of or pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, galvanism; employing or producing electrical currents. Galvanic battery (Elec.), an apparatus for generating electrical currents by the mutual action of certain liquids and metals; -- now usually called voltaic battery. See Battery.  -- Galvanic circuit or circle. (Elec.) See under Circuit.  -- Galvanic pile (Elec.), the voltaic pile. See under Voltaic. 

GALVANIST:  One versed in galvanism. 

GALVANIZATION:  The act of process of galvanizing. 

GALVANIZER:  One who, or that which, galvanize. 

GALVANOCAUSTIC:  Relating to the use of galvanic heat as a caustic, especially in medicine. 

GALVANOCAUTERY:  Cautery effected by a knife or needle heated by the passage of a galvanic current. 

GALVANOGLYPHY:  Same as Glyphography. 

GALVANOGRAPH:  A copperplate produced by the method of galvanography; also, a picture printed from such a plate. 

GALVANOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to galvanography. 

GALVANOLOGIST:  One who describes the phenomena of galvanism; a writer on galvanism. 

GALVANOLOGY:  A treatise on galvanism, or a description of its phenomena. 

GALVANOMETER:  An instrument or apparatus for measuring the intensity of an electric current, usually by the deflection of a magnetic needle. Differential galvanometer. See under Differental, a.  -- Sine galvanometer, Cosine galvanometer, Tangent galvanometer (Elec.), a galvanometer in which the sine, cosine, or tangent respectively, of the angle through which the needle is deflected, is proportional to the strength of the current passed through the instrument. 

GALVANOMETRIC:  Of, pertaining to, or measured by, a galvanometer. 

GALVANOMETRY:  The art or process of measuring the force of electric currents. 

GALVANOPLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to the art or process of electrotyping; employing, or produced by, the process of electolytic deposition; as, a galvano-plastic copy of a medal or the like. 

GALVANOPLASTY:  The art or process of electrotypy. 

GALVANOPUNCTURE:  Same as Electro-puncture. 

GALVANOSCOPE:  An instrument or apparatus for detecting the presence of electrical currents, especially such as are of feeble intensity. 

GALVANOSCOPIC:  Of or pertaining to a galvanoscope. 

GALVANOSCOPY:  The use of galvanism in physiological experiments. 

GALVANOTONUS:  Same as Electrotonus. 

GALVANOTROPISM:  The tendency of a root to place its axis in the line of a galvanic current. 

GALWES:  Gallows. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GAM:  To have a gam with; to pay a visit to, esp. among whalers at sea.  GAMA GRASS Ga"ma grass`. Etym: [From Gama, a cluster of the Maldive Islands.] (Bot.)  A species of grass (Tripsacum dactyloides) tall, stout, and exceedingly productive; cultivated in the West Indies, Mexico, and the Southern States of North America as a forage grass; -- called also sesame grass. 

GAMASHES:  High boots or buskins; in Scotland, short spatterdashes or riding trousers, worn over the other clothing. 

GAMBA:  A viola da gamba. 

GAMBADOES:  Same as Gamashes. His thin legs tenanted a pair of gambadoes fastened at the side with rusty clasps. Sir W. Scott. 

GAMBEER:  To gaff, as mackerel. 

GAMBESON:  Same as Gambison. 

GAMBET:  Any bird of the genuis Totanus. See Tattler. 

GAMBISON:  A defensive garment formerly in use for the body, made of cloth stuffed and quilted. 

GAMBIST:  A performer upon the viola di gamba. See under Viola. 

GAMBIT:  A mode of opening the game, in which a pawn is sacrificed to gain an attacking position. 

GAMBLE:  To play or game for money or other stake. 

GAMBLE:  To lose or squander by gaming; -- usually with away. "Bankrupts or sots who have gambled or slept away their estates." Ames. 

GAMBLER:  One who gambles. 

GAMBOGE:  A concrete juice, or gum resin, produced by several species of trees in Siam, Ceylon, and Malabar. It is brought in masses, or cylindrical rolls, from Cambodia, or Cambogia, -- whence its name. The best kind is of a dense, compact texture, and of a beatiful reddish yellow. Taking internally, it is a strong and harsh cathartic ad emetic. [Written also camboge.]  Note: There are several kinds of gamboge, but all are derived from species of Garcinia, a genus of trees of the order Guttiferæ. The best Siam gamboge is thought to come from Garcinia Hanburii. Ceylon gamboge is from G. Morella. G. pictoria, of Western India, yields gamboge, and also a kind of oil called gamboge butter.  GAMBOGIAN; GAMBOGIC Gam*bo"gi*an, Gambogic, a.  Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, gamboge. 

GAMBOL:  A skipping or leaping about in frolic; a hop; a sportive prank. Dryden. 

GAMBOL:  To dance and skip about in sport; to frisk; to skip; to play in frolic, like boys or lambs. 

GAMBREL:  To truss or hang up by means of a gambrel. Beau. & Fl. 

GAMBROON:  A kind of twilled linen cloth for lining. Simmonds. 

GAME:  Crooked; lame; as, a game leg. [Colloq.] 

GAME:  In some games, a point credited on the score to the player whose cards counts up the highest.  6. A scheme or art employed in the pursuit of an object or purpose; method of procedure; projected line of operations; plan; project. Your murderous game is nearly up. Blackw. Mag. It was obviously Lord Macaulay's game to blacken the greatest literary champion of the cause he had set himself to attack. Saintsbury.  7. Animals pursued and taken by sportsmen; wild meats designed for, or served at, table. Those species of animals . . . distinguished from the rest by the well-known appellation of game. Blackstone. Confidence game. See under Confidence.  -- To make game of, to make sport of; to mock. Milton. 

GAMECOCK:  The male game fowl.  GAME FOWL Game" fowl`. (Zoöl.)  A handsome breed of the common fowl, remarkable for the great courage and pugnacity of the males. 

GAMEFUL:  Full of game or games. 

GAMEKEEPER:  One who has the care of game, especially in a park or preserve. Blackstone. 

GAMELESS:  Destitute of game. 

GAMELY:  In a plucky manner; spiritedly. 

GAMENESS:  Endurance; pluck. 

GAMESOME:  Gay; sportive; playful; frolicsome; merry. Shak. Gladness of the gamesome crowd. Byron. -- Game"some*ly, adv.  -- Game"some*ness, n. 

GAMETE:  A sexual cell or germ cell; a conjugating cell which unites with another of like or unlike character to form a new individual. In Bot., gamete designates esp. the similar sex cells of the lower thallophytes which unite by conjugation, forming a zygospore. The gametes of higher plants are of two sorts, sperm (male) and egg (female); their union is called fertilization, and the resulting zygote an oöspore. In Zoöl., gamete is most commonly used of the sexual cells of certain Protozoa, though also extended to the germ cells of higher forms. 

GAMETOPHYTE:  In the alternation of generations in plants, that generation or phase which bears sex organs. In the lower plants, as the algæ, the gametophyte is the conspicuous part of the plant body; in mosses it is the so-called moss plant; in ferns it is reduced to a small, early perishing body; and in seed plants it is usually microscopic or rudimentary. 

GAMIC:  Pertaining to, or resulting from, sexual connection; formed by the union of the male and female elements. 

GAMIN:  A neglected and untrained city boy; a young street Arab. In Japan, the gamins run after you, and say, 'Look at the Chinaman.' L. Oliphant. 

GAMING:  The act or practice of playing games for stakes or wagers; gambling. 

GAMMA:  The third letter (G) of the Greek alphabet. 

GAMMADION:  A cross formed of four capital gammas, formerly used as a mysterious ornament on ecclesiastical vestments, etc. See Fylfot.  GAMMA RAYS Gam"ma rays. (Physics)  Very penetrating rays not appreciably deflected by a magnetic or electric field, emitted by radioactive substances. The prevailing view is that they are non-periodic ether pulses differing from Röntgen rays only in being more penetrating. 

GAMMER:  An old wife; an old woman; -- correlative of gaffer, an old man. 

GAMMON:  The buttock or tight of a hog, salted and smoked or dried; the lower end of a flitch. Goldsmith. 

GAMMON:  To make bacon of; to salt and dry in smoke. 

GAMMON:  To fasten (a bowsprit) to the stem of a vessel by lashings of rope or chain, or by a band of iron. Totten. 

GAMMONING:  The lashing or iron band by which the bowsprit of a vessel is secured to the stem to opposite the lifting action of the forestays. Gammoning fashion, in the style of gammoning lashing, that is, having the turns of rope crossed.  -- Gammoning hole (Naut.), a hole cut through the knee of the head of a vessel for the purpose of gammoning the bowsprit. 

GAMMONING:  The act of imposing upon or hoaxing a person. [Colloq.] 

GAMOGENESIS:  The production of offspring by the union of parents of different sexes; sexual reproduction; -- the opposite of agamogenesis. 

GAMOGENETIC:  Relating to gamogenesis.  -- Gam`o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv. 

GAMOMORPHISM:  That stage of growth or development in an organism, in which the reproductive elements are generated and matured in preparation for propagating the species. 

GAMOPETALOUS:  Having the petals united or joined so as to form a tube or cup; monopetalous. 

GAMOPHYLLOUS:  Composed of leaves united by their edges (coalescent). Gray. 

GAMOSEPALOUS:  Formed of united sepals; monosepalous. 

GAMP:  A large umbrella; --said to allude to Mrs. Gamp's umbrella, in Dickens's "Martin Chuzzlewit." 

GAMUT:  The scale. 

GAMY:  Having the flavor of game, esp. of game kept uncooked till near the condition of tainting; high-flavored.  2. (Sporting)  Showing an unyielding spirit to the last; plucky; furnishing sport; as, a gamy trout. 

GAN:  Began; commenced.  Note: Gan was formerly used with the infinitive to form compound imperfects, as did is now employed. Gan regularly denotes the singular; the plural is usually denoted by gunne or gonne. This man gan fall (i.e., fell) in great suspicion. Chaucer. The little coines to their play gunne hie (i.e., hied). Chaucer.  Note: Later writers use gan both for singular and plural. Yet at her speech their rages gan relent. Spenser. 

GANANCIAL:  Designating, pertaining to, or held under, the Spanish system of law (called ganancial system) which controls the title and disposition of the property acquired during marriage by the husband or wife. 

GANCH:  To drop from a high place upon sharp stakes or hooks, as the Turks dropped malefactors, by way of punishment. Ganching, which is to let fall from on high upon hooks, and there to hang until they die. Sandys. 

GANDER:  The male of any species of goose. 

GANE:  To yawn; to gape. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GANESA:  The Hindoo god of wisdom or prudence.  Note: He is represented as a short, fat, red-colored man, with a large belly and the head of an elephant. Balfour. 

GANG:  To go; to walk.  Note: Obsolete in English literature, but still used in the North of England, and also in Scotland. 

GANG:  A set; all required for an outfit; as, a new gang of stays.  5. Etym: [Cf. Gangue.] (Mining)  The mineral substance which incloses a vein; a matrix; a gangue. Gang board, or Gang plank. (Naut.) (a) A board or plank, with cleats for steps, forming a bridge by which to enter or leave a vessel. (b) A plank within or without the bulwarks of a vessel's waist, for the sentinel to walk on.  -- Gang cask, a small cask in which to bring water aboard ships or in which it is kept on deck.  -- Gang cultivator, Gang plow, a cultivator or plow in which several shares are attached to one frame, so as to make two or more furrows at the same time.  -- Gang days, Rogation days; the time of perambulating parishes. See Gang week (below).  -- Gang drill, a drilling machine having a number of drills driven from a common shaft.  -- Gang master, a master or employer of a gang of workmen.  -- Gang plank. See Gang board (above).  -- Gang plow. See Gang cultivator (above).  -- Gang press, a press for operating upon a pile or row of objects separated by intervening plates.  -- Gang saw, a saw fitted to be one of a combination or gang of saws hung together in a frame or sash, and set at fixed distances apart.  -- Gang tide. See Gang week (below).  -- Gang tooth, a projecting tooth. [Obs.] Halliwell.  -- Gang week, Rogation week, when formerly processions were made to survey the bounds of parishes. Halliwell.  -- Live gang, or Round gang, the Western and the Eastern names, respectively, for a gang of saws for cutting the round log into boards at one operation. Knight.  -- Slabbing gang, an arrangement of saws which cuts slabs from two sides of a log, leaving the middle part as a thick beam. 

GANGER:  One who oversees a gang of workmen. [R.] Mayhew. 

GANGETIC:  Pertaining to, or inhabiting, the Ganges; as, the Gangetic shark.  GANG-FLOWER Gang"-flow`er, n. (Bot.)  The common English milkwort (Polygala vulgaris), so called from blossoming in gang week. Dr. Prior. 

GANGION:  A short line attached to a trawl. See Trawl, n.  GANGLIAC; GANGLIAL Gan"gli*ac, Gan"gli*al, a. (Anat.)  Relating to a ganglion; ganglionic.  GANGLIATE; GANGLIATED Gan"gli*ate, Gan"gli*a`ted, a. (Anat.)  Furnished with ganglia; as, the gangliated cords of the sympathetic nervous system.  GANGLIFORM; GANGLIOFORM Gan"gli*form`, Gan"gli*o*form`, a. Etym: [Ganglion + -form.] (Anat.)  Having the form of a ganglion. 

GANGLION:  A globular, hard, indolent tumor, situated somewhere on a tendon, and commonly formed by the effusion of a viscid fluid into it; -- called also weeping sinew. Ganglion cell, a nerve cell. See Illust. under Bipolar. 

GANGLIONARY:  Ganglionic. 

GANGLIONIC:  Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, ganglia or ganglion cells; as, a ganglionic artery; the ganglionic columns of the spinal cord. 

GANGREL:  Wandering; vagrant. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

GANGRENATE:  To gangrene. [Obs.] 

GANGRENE:  A term formerly restricted to mortification of the soft tissues which has not advanced so far as to produce complete loss of vitality; but now applied to mortification of the soft parts in any stage. 

GANGRENE:  To produce gangrene in; to be affected with gangrene. 

GANGRENESCENT:  Tending to mortification or gangrene. 

GANGRENOUS:  Affected by, or produced by, gangrene; of the nature of gangrene. 

GANGUE:  The mineral or earthy substance associated with metallic ore. 

GANGWAY:  The opening through the bulwarks of a vessel by which persons enter or leave it.  4. (Naut.)  That part of the spar deck of a vessel on each side of the booms, from the quarter-deck to the forecastle; -- more properly termed the waist. Totten. Gangway ladder, a ladder rigged on the side of a vessel at the gangway.  -- To bring to the gangway, to punish (a seaman) by flogging him at the gangway. 

GANIL:  A kind of brittle limestone. [Prov. Eng.] Kirwan.  GANISTER; GANNISTER Gan"is*ter, Gan"nis*ter, n. (Mech.)  A refractory material consisting of crushed or ground siliceous stone, mixed with fire clay; -- used for lining Bessemer converters; also used for macadamizing roads. 

GANJA:  The dried hemp plant, used in India for smoking. It is extremely narcotic and intoxicating. 

GANNET:  One of several species of sea birds of the genus Sula, allied to the pelicans.  Note: The common gannet of Europe and America (S. bassana), is also called solan goose, chandel goose, and gentleman. In Florida the wood ibis is commonly called gannet. Booby gannet. See Sula. 

GANOCEPHALA:  A group of fossil amphibians allied to the labyrinthodonts, having the head defended by bony, sculptured plates, as in some ganoid fishes. 

GANOCEPHALOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Ganocephala. 

GANOID:  Of or pertaining to Ganoidei.  -- n. One of the Ganoidei. Ganoid scale (Zoöl.), one kind of scales of the ganoid fishes, composed of an inner layer of bone, and an outer layer of shining enamel. They are often so arranged as to form a coat of mail. 

GANOIDAL:  Ganoid. 

GANOIDEI:  One of the subclasses of fishes. They have an arterial cone and bulb, spiral intestinal valve, and the optic nerves united by a chiasma. Many of the species are covered with bony plates, or with ganoid scales; others have cycloid scales.  Note: They were numerous, and some of them of large size, in early geological periods; but they are represented by comparatively few living species, most of which inhabit fresh waters, as the bowfin, gar pike, bichir, Ceratodus, paddle fish, and sturgeon. 

GANOIDIAN:  Ganoid. 

GANOINE:  A peculiar bony tissue beneath the enamel of a ganoid scale. 

GANSA:  Same as Ganza. Bp. Hall. 

GANTLET:  A military punishment formerly in use, wherein the offender was made to run between two files of men facing one another, who struck him as he passed. To run the gantlet, to suffer the punishment of the gantlet; hence, to go through the ordeal of severe criticism or controversy, or ill-treatment at many hands. Winthrop ran the gantlet of daily slights. Palfrey.  Note: Written also, but less properly, gauntlet. 

GANTLET:  A glove. See Gauntlet. 

GANTLINE:  A line rigged to a mast; -- used in hoisting rigging; a girtline. 

GANTLOPE:  See Gantlet. [Obs.] 

GANTRY:  See Gauntree. 

GANZA:  A kind of wild goose, by a flock of which a virtuoso was fabled to be carried to the lunar world. [Also gansa.] Johnson.  GANZ SYSTEM Ganz system  A haulage system for canal boats, in which an electric locomotive running on a monorail has its adhesion materially increased by the pull of the tow rope on a series of inclined gripping wheels. 

GAOL:  A place of confinement, especially for minor offenses or provisional imprisonment; a jail. [Preferably, and in the United States usually, written jail.] Commission of general gaol delivery, an authority conferred upon judges and others included in it, for trying and delivering every prisoner in jail when the judges, upon their circuit, arrive at the place for holding court, and for discharging any whom the grand jury fail to indict. [Eng.] -- Gaol delivery. (Law) See Jail delivery, under Jail. 

GAOLER:  The keeper of a jail. See Jailer. 

GAP:  An opening in anything made by breaking or parting; as, a gap in a fence; an opening for a passage or entrance; an opening which implies a breach or defect; a vacant space or time; a hiatus; a mountain pass. Miseries ensued by the opening of that gap. Knolles. It would make a great gap in your own honor. Shak. Gap lathe (Mach.), a turning lathe with a deep notch in the bed to admit of turning a short object of large diameter.  -- To stand in the gap, to expose one's self for the protection of something; to make defense against any assailing danger; to take the place of a fallen defender or supporter.  -- To stop a gap, to secure a weak point; to repair a defect. 

GAPE:  The width of the mouth when opened, as of birds, fishes, etc. GAPES; THE GAPES The gapes. (a) A fit of yawning. (b) A disease of young poultry and other birds, attended with much gaping. It is caused by a parasitic nematode worm (Syngamus trachealis), in the windpipe, which obstructs the breathing. See Gapeworm. 

GAPESEED:  Any strange sight. Wright. 

GAPESING:  Act of gazing about; sightseeing. [Prov. Eng.] 

GAPEWORM:  The parasitic worm that causes the gapes in birds. See Illustration in Appendix. 

GAPINGSTOCK:  One who is an object of open-mouthed wonder. I was to be a gapingstock and a scorn to the young volunteers. Godwin.  GAP-TOOTHED Gap"-toothed`, a.  Having interstices between the teeth. Dryden. 

GAR:  To cause; to make. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser. 

GARAGE:  To keep in a garage. [Colloq.] 

GARANCIN:  An extract of madder by sulphuric acid. It consists essentially of alizarin. 

GARB:  A sheaf of grain (wheat, unless otherwise specified). 

GARB:  To clothe; array; deck. These black dog-Dons Garb themselves bravely. Tennyson. 

GARBAGE:  Offal, as the bowels of an animal or fish; refuse animal or vegetable matter from a kitchen; hence, anything worthless, disgusting, or loathsome. Grainger. 

GARBAGE:  To strip of the bowels; to clean. "Pilchards . . . are garbaged." Holland. 

GARBED:  Dressed; habited; clad. 

GARBEL:  Same as Garboard. 

GARBEL:  Anything sifted, or from which the coarse parts have been taken. [Obs.] 

GARBLE:  Impurities separated from spices, drugs, etc.; -- also called garblings. 

GARBLER:  One who garbles. 

GARBOARD:  One of the planks next the keel on the outside, which form a garboard strake. Garboard strake or streak, the first range or strake of planks laid on a ship's bottom next the keel. Totten. 

GARBOIL:  Tumult; disturbance; disorder. [Obs.] Shak. 

GARCINIA:  A genus of plants, including the mangosteen tree (Garcinia Mangostana), found in the islands of the Indian Archipelago; -- so called in honor of Dr. Garcin. 

GARCON:  A boy; fellow; esp., a serving boy or man; a waiter; -- in Eng. chiefly applied to French waiters. 

GARD:  Garden. [Obs.] "Trees of the gard." F. Beaumont. 

GARD:  See Guard. 

GARDANT:  Turning the head towards the spectator, but not the body; -- said of a lion or other beast.  GARDE CIVIQUE Garde` ci`vique". [F.]  See Army organization, above. 

GARDEN:  To lay out or cultivate a garden; to labor in a garden; to practice horticulture. 

GARDEN:  To cultivate as a garden. 

GARDENER:  One who makes and tends a garden; a horticulturist. 

GARDENIA:  A genus of plants, some species of which produce beautiful and fragrant flowers; Cape jasmine; -- so called in honor of Dr. Alexander Garden. 

GARDENING:  The art of occupation of laying out and cultivating gardens; horticulture. 

GARDENLESS:  Destitute of a garden. Shelley. 

GARDENLY:  Like a garden. [R.] W. Marshall. 

GARDENSHIP:  Horticulture. [Obs.] 

GARDON:  A European cyprinoid fish; the id. 

GARDYLOO:  An old cry in throwing water, slops, etc., from the windows in Edingburgh. Sir. W. Scott. 

GARE:  Coarse wool on the legs of sheep. Blount. 

GAREFOWL:  The great auk; also, the razorbill. See Auk. [Written also gairfowl, and gurfel.] 

GARGALIZE:  To gargle; to rinse. [Obs.] Marston. 

GARGANEY:  A small European duck (Anas querquedula); -- called also cricket teal, and summer teal. 

GARGANTUAN:  Characteristic of Gargantua, a gigantic, wonderful personage; enormous; prodigious; inordinate. 

GARGARISM:  A gargle. 

GARGARIZE:  To gargle; to rinse or wash, as the mouth and throat. [Obs.] Bacon. 

GARGET:  See Poke. 

GARGIL:  A distemper in geese, affecting the head. 

GARGLE:  See Gargoyle. 

GARGLE:  A liquid, as water or some medicated preparation, used to cleanse the mouth and throat, especially for a medical effect. 

GARGOL:  A distemper in swine; garget. Mortimer. 

GARGOULETTE:  A water cooler or jug with a handle and spout; a gurglet. Mollett. 

GARGOYLE:  A spout projecting from the roof gutter of a building, often carved grotesquely. [Written also gargle, gargyle, and gurgoyle.] 

GARGYLE:  See Gargoyle. 

GARIBALDI:  A California market fish (Pomancentrus rubicundus) of a deep scarlet color. 

GARLAND:  To deck with a garland. B. Jonson. 

GARLANDLESS:  Destitute of a garland. Shelley. 

GARLIC:  A plant of the genus Allium (A. sativum is the cultivated variety), having a bulbous root, a very strong smell, and an acrid, pungent taste. Each root is composed of several lesser bulbs, called cloves of garlic, inclosed in a common membranous coat, and easily separable.  2. A kind of jig or farce. [Obs.] Taylor (1630). Garlic mustard, a European plant of the Mustard family (Alliaria officinalis) which has a strong smell of garlic.  -- Garlic pear tree, a tree in Jamaica (Cratæva gynandra), bearing a fruit which has a strong scent of garlic, and a burning taste. 

GARLICKY:  Like or containing garlic. 

GARMENT:  Any article of clothing, as a coat, a gown, etc. No man putteth a piece of new cloth unto old garment. Matt. ix. 16. 

GARMENTED:  Having on a garment; attired; enveloped, as with a garment. [Poetic] A lovely lady garmented in light From her own beauty. Shelley. 

GARMENTURE:  Clothing; dress. 

GARNER:  A granary; a building or place where grain is stored for preservation. 

GARNER:  To gather for preservation; to store, as in a granary; to treasure. Shak. 

GARNET:  A mineral having many varieties differing in color and in their constituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric), and conforming to the same general chemical formula. The commonest color is red, the luster is vitreous, and the hardness greater than that of quartz. The dodecahedron and trapezohedron are the common forms.  Note: There are also white, green, yellow, brown, and black varieties. The garnet is a silicate, the bases being aluminia lime (grossularite, essonite, or cinnamon stone), or aluminia magnesia (pyrope), or aluminia iron (almandine), or aluminia manganese (spessartite), or iron lime (common garnet, melanite, allochroite), or chromium lime (ouvarovite, color emerald green). The transparent red varieties are used as gems. The garnet was, in part, the carbuncle of the ancients. Garnet is a very common mineral in gneiss and mica slate. Garnet berry (Bot.), the red currant; -- so called from its transparent red color.  -- Garnet brown (Chem.), an artificial dyestuff, produced as an explosive brown crystalline substance with a green or golden luster. It consists of the potassium salt of a complex cyanogen derivative of picric acid. 

GARNET:  A tackle for hoisting cargo in our out. Clew garnet. See under Clew. 

GARNETIFEROUS:  Containing garnets. 

GARNIERITE:  An amorphous mineral of apple-green color; a hydrous silicate of nickel and magnesia. It is an important ore of nickel. 

GARNISH:  To ornament, as a dish, with something laid about it; as, a dish garnished with parsley.  3. To furnish; to supply.  4. To fit with fetters. [Cant] Johnson.  5. (Law)  To warn by garnishment; to give notice to; to garnishee. See Garnishee, v. t. Cowell. 

GARNISH:  Something set round or upon a dish as an embellishment. See Garnish, v. t., 2. Smart.  3. Fetters. [Cant]  4. A fee; specifically, in English jails, formerly an unauthorized fee demanded by the old prisoners of a newcomer. [Cant] Fielding. Garnish bolt (Carp.), a bolt with a chamfered or faceted head. Knight. 

GARNISHEE:  One who is garnished; a person upon whom garnishment has been served in a suit by a creditor against a debtor, such person holding property belonging to the debtor, or owing him money.  Note: The order by which warning is made is called a garnishee order. 

GARNISHER:  One who, or that which, garnishes. 

GARNITURE:  That which garnishes; ornamental appendage; embellishment; furniture; dress. The pomp of groves and garniture of fields. Beattie. 

GAROOKUH:  A small fishing vessel met with in the Persian Gulf. 

GAROUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, garum. Sir T. Browne.  GAR PIKE; GARPIKE Gar" pike` or; Gar"pike`. (Zoöl.)  See under Gar. 

GARRAN:  See Galloway. [Scot. garron or gerron. Jamieson.] 

GARRETED:  Protected by turrets. [Obs.] R. Carew. 

GARRETEER:  One who lives in a garret; a poor author; a literary hack. Macaulay. 

GARRETING:  Small splinters of stone inserted into the joints of coarse masonry. Weale. 

GARRON:  Same as Garran. [Scot.] 

GARROT:  A stick or small wooden cylinder used for tightening a bandage, in order to compress the arteries of a limb. 

GARROT:  The European golden-eye. 

GARROTE:  A Spanish mode of execution by strangulation, with an iron collar affixed to a post and tightened by a screw until life become extinct; also, the instrument by means of which the punishment is inflicted. 

GARROTE:  To strangle with the garrote; hence, to seize by the throat, from behind, with a view to strangle and rob. 

GARROTER:  One who seizes a person by the throat from behind, with a view to strangle and rob him. 

GARRULITY:  Talkativeness; loquacity. 

GARRULOUS:  Having a loud, harsh note; noisy; -- said of birds; as, the garrulous roller.  Syn.  -- Garrulous, Talkative, Loquacious. A garrulous person indulges in long, prosy talk, with frequent repetitions and lengthened details; talkative implies simply a great desire to talk; and loquacious a great flow of words at command. A child is talkative; a lively woman is loquacious; an old man in his dotage is garrulous.  -- Gar"ru*lous*ly, adv.  -- Gar"ru*lous*ness, n. 

GARRUPA:  One of several species of California market fishes, of the genus Sebastichthys; -- called also rockfish. See Rockfish. 

GARTER:  Same as Bendlet. Garter fish (Zoöl.), a fish of the genus Lepidopus, having a long, flat body, like the blade of a sword; the scabbard fish.  -- Garter king-at-arms, the chief of the official heralds of England, king-at-arms to the Order of the Garter; -- often abbreviated to Garter.  -- Garter snake (Zoöl.), one of several harmless American snakes of the genus Eutænia, of several species (esp. E. saurita and E. sirtalis); one of the striped snakes; -- so called from its conspicuous stripes of color. 

GARTER:  The simplest stitch in knitting. 

GARTH:  A hoop or band. [Prov. Eng.] 

GARUM:  A sauce made of small fish. It was prized by the ancients. 

GARVIE:  The spart; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

GASALIER:  A chandelier arranged to burn gas.  GAS-BURNER Gas"-burn`er, n.  The jet piece of a gas fixture where the gas is burned as it escapes from one or more minute orifices. 

GASCOINES:  See Gaskins, 1. Lyly. 

GASCON:  Of or pertaining to Gascony, in France, or to the Gascons; also, braggart; swaggering.  -- n.  A native of Gascony; a boaster; a bully. See Gasconade. 

GASCONADE:  A boast or boasting; a vaunt; a bravado; a bragging; braggodocio. Swift. 

GASCONADE:  To boast; to brag; to bluster. 

GASCONADER:  A great boaster; a blusterer. 

GASCOYNES:  Gaskins. Beau & Fl. 

GASEITY:  State of being gaseous. [R] Eng. Cyc. 

GASELIER:  A chandelier arranged to burn gas.  GAS ENGINE Gas engine. (Mach.)  A kind of internal-combustion engine (which see) using fixed gas; also, broadly, any internal-combustion engine. 

GASH:  To make a gash, or long, deep incision in; -- applied chiefly to incisions in flesh. Grievously gashed or gored to death. Hayward. 

GASH:  A deep and long cut; an incision of considerable length and depth, particularly in flesh. 

GASHFUL:  Full of gashes; hideous; frightful. [Obs.] "A gashful, horrid, ugly shape." Gayton. 

GASIFICATION:  The act or process of converting into gas. 

GASIFORM:  Having a form of gas; gaseous. 

GASIFY:  To convert into gas, or an aëriform fluid, as by the application of heat, or by chemical processes. 

GASIFY:  To become gas; to pass from a liquid to a gaseous state. Scientific American. 

GASKET:  A line or band used to lash a furled sail securely. Sea gaskets are common lines; harbor gaskets are plaited and decorated lines or bands. Called also casket.  2. (Mech.) (a) The plaited hemp used for packing a piston, as of the steam engine and its pumps. (b) Any ring or washer of packing. 

GASOLENE:  See Gasoline. 

GASOLIER:  Same as Gasalier. 

GASOLINE:  A highly volatile mixture of fluid hydrocarbons, obtained from petroleum, as also by the distillation of bituminous coal. It is used in making air gas, and in giving illuminating power to water gas. See Carburetor.  GASOLINE ENGINE; GASOLENE ENGINE Gas"o*line, or Gas"o*lene, en"gine . (Mach.)  A kind of internal-combustion engine; -- in British countries called usually petrol engine. 

GASOMETER:  An apparatus for holding and measuring of gas; in gas works, a huge iron cylinder closed at one end and having the other end immersed in water, in which it is made to rise or fall, according to the volume of gas it contains, or the pressure required.  GASOMETRIC; GASOMETRICAL Gas`o*met"ric or; Gas`o*met"ric*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the measurement of gases; as, gasometric analysis. 

GASOMETRY:  The art or practice of measuring gases; also, the science which treats of the nature and properties of these elastic fluids. Coxe. 

GASOSCOPE:  An apparatus for detecting the presence of any dangerous gas, from a gas leak in a coal mine or a dwelling house. 

GASP:  To emit or utter with gasps; -- with forth, out, away, etc. And with short sobs he gasps away his breath. Dryden. 

GASP:  The act of opening the mouth convulsively to catch the breath; a labored respiration; a painful catching of the breath. At the last gasp, at the point of death. Addison. 

GASPEREAU:  The alewife. [Local, Canada] 

GASSERIAN:  Relating to Casserio (L. Gasserius), the discover of the Gasserian ganglion. Gasserian ganglion (Anat.), a large ganglion, at the root of the trigeminal, or fifth cranial, nerve. 

GASSING:  The process of passing cotton goods between two rollers and exposing them to numerous minute jets of gas to burn off the small fibers; any similar process of singeing.  2. Boasting; insincere or empty talk. [Slang] 

GASSY:  Full of gas; like gas. Hence: [Colloq.] Inflated; full of boastful or insincere talk. 

GAST:  To make aghast; to frighten; to terrify. See Aghast. [Obs.] Chaucer. Shak. 

GASTER:  To gast. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

GASTEROMYCETES:  An order of fungi, in which the spores are borne inside a sac called the peridium, as in the puffballs. 

GASTEROPOD:  Same as Gastropod. 

GASTEROPODA:  Same as Gastropoda. 

GASTEROPODOUS:  Same as Gastropodous.  GASTFUL; GASTLY Gast"ful, Gast"ly (, a. [Obs.]  See Ghastful, Ghastly. 

GASTIGHT:  So tightly fitted as to preclude the escape of gas; impervious to gas. 

GASTNESS:  See Ghastness. [Obs.] 

GASTORNIS:  A genus of large eocene birds from the Paris basin. 

GASTRAEA:  A primeval larval form; a double-walled sac from which, according to the hypothesis of Haeckel, man and all other animals, that in the first stages of their individual evolution pass through a two-layered structural stage, or gastrula form, must have descended. This idea constitutes the Gastræa theory of Haeckel. See Gastrula. 

GASTRALGIA:  Pain in the stomach or epigastrium, as in gastric disorders. 

GASTRIC:  Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the stomach; as, the gastric artery. Gastric digestion (Physiol.), the conversion of the albuminous portion of food in the stomach into soluble and diffusible products by the solvent action of gastric juice.  -- Gastric fever (Med.), a fever attended with prominent gastric symptoms; -- a name applied to certain forms of typhoid fever; also, to catarrhal inflammation of the stomach attended with fever.  -- Gastric juice (Physiol.), a thin, watery fluid, with an acid reaction, secreted by a peculiar set of glands contained in the mucous membrane of the stomach. It consists mainly of dilute hydrochloric acid and the ferment pepsin. It is the most important digestive fluid in the body, but acts only on proteid foods.  -- Gastric remittent fever (Med.), a form of remittent fever with pronounced stomach symptoms. 

GASTRILOQUIST:  One who appears to speak from his stomach; a ventriloquist. 

GASTRILOQUOUS:  Ventriloquous. [R.] 

GASTRILOQUY:  A voice or utterance which appears to proceed from the stomach; ventriloquy. 

GASTRITIS:  Inflammation of the stomach, esp. of its mucuos membrane.  GASTRO- Gas"tro-.  A combining form from the Gr. gastrocolic, gastrocele, gastrotomy. 

GASTROCNEMIUS:  The muscle which makes the greater part of the calf of the leg. 

GASTROCOLIC:  Pertaining to both the stomach and the colon; as, the gastrocolic, or great, omentum. 

GASTRODISC:  That part of blastoderm where the hypoblast appears like a small disk on the inner face of the epibladst. 

GASTRODUODENAL:  Pertaining to the stomach and duodenum; as, the gastroduodenal artery. 

GASTRODUODENITIS:  Inflammation of the stomach and duodenum. It is one of the most frequent causes of jaundice. 

GASTROELYTROTOMY:  The operation of cutting into the upper part of the vagina, through the abdomen (without opening the peritoneum), for the purpose of removing a fetus. It is a substitute for the Cæsarean operation, and less dangerous. 

GASTROENTERIC:  Gastrointestinal. 

GASTROENTERITIS:  Inflammation of the lining membrane of the stomach and the intestines. 

GASTROEPIPLOIC:  Of or pertaining to the stomach and omentum. 

GASTROHEPATIC:  Pertaining to the stomach and liver; hepatogastric; as, the gastrohepatic, or lesser, omentum. 

GASTROHYSTEROTOMY:  Cæsarean section. See under Cæsarean. 

GASTROINTESTINAL:  Of or pertaining to the stomach and intestines; gastroenteric. 

GASTROLITH:  See Crab's eyes, under Crab. 

GASTROLOGY:  The science which treats of the structure and functions of the stomach; a treatise of the stomach. 

GASTROMALACIA:  A softening of the coats of the stomach; -- usually a post- morten change. 

GASTROMYCES:  The fungoid growths sometimes found in the stomach; such as Torula, etc. 

GASTROMYTH:  One whose voice appears to proceed from the stomach; a ventriloquist. [Obs.]  GASTRONOME; GASTRONOMER Gas"tro*nome, Gas*tron"o*mer, n. Etym: [F. gastronome, fr. Gr.  One fond of good living; an epicure. Sir W. Scott.  GASTRONOMIC; GASTRONOMICAL Gas`tro*nom"ic, Gas`tro*nom"ic*al (, a. Etym: [Cf. F. gastronomique.]  Pertaining to gastromony. 

GASTRONOMIST:  A gastromomer. 

GASTRONOMY:  The art or science of good eating; epicurism; the art of good cheer. 

GASTROPHRENIC:  Pertaining to the stomach and diaphragm; as, the gastrophrenic ligament. 

GASTROPNEUMATIC:  Pertaining to the alimentary canal and air passages, and to the cavities connected with them; as, the gastropneumatic mucuos membranes. 

GASTROPOD:  One of the Gastropoda. [Written also gasteropod.] 

GASTROPODA:  One of the classes of Mollusca, of great extent. It includes most of the marine spiral shells, and the land and fresh-water snails. They generally creep by means of a flat, muscular disk, or foot, on the ventral side of the body. The head usually bears one or two pairs of tentacles. See Mollusca. [Written also Gasteropoda.]  Note: The Gastropoda are divided into three subclasses; viz.: (a) The Streptoneura or Dioecia, including the Pectinibranchiata, Rhipidoglossa, Docoglossa, and Heteropoda. (b) The Euthyneura, including the Pulmonata and Opisthobranchia. (c) The Amphineura, including the Polyplacophora and Aplacophora. 

GASTROPODOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Gastropoda. 

GASTRORAPHY:  The operation of sewing up wounds of the abdomen. Quincy. 

GASTROSCOPE:  An instrument for viewing or examining the interior of the stomach. 

GASTROSCOPIC:  Of or pertaining to gastroscopy. 

GASTROSCOPY:  Examination of the abdomen or stomach, as with the gastroscope. 

GASTROSPLENIC:  Pertaining to the stomach and spleen; as, the gastrosplenic ligament. 

GASTROSTEGE:  One of the large scales on the belly of a serpent. 

GASTROSTOMY:  The operation of making a permanent opening into the stomach, for the introduction of food. 

GASTROTOMY:  A cutting into, or opening of, the abdomen or the stomach. 

GASTROTRICHA:  A group of small wormlike animals, having cilia on the ventral side. The group is regarded as an ancestral or synthetic one, related to rotifers and annelids. 

GASTROTROCHA:  A form of annelid larva having cilia on the ventral side. 

GASTROVASCULAR:  Having the structure, or performing the functions, both of digestive and circulatory organs; as, the gastrovascular cavity of coelenterates. 

GASTRULA:  An embryonic form having its origin in the invagination or pushing in of the wall of the planula or blastula (the blastosphere) on one side, thus giving rise to a double-walled sac, with one opening or mouth (the blastopore) which leads into the cavity (the archenteron) lined by the inner wall (the hypoblast). See Illust. under Invagination. In a more general sense, an ideal stage in embryonic development. See Gastræa.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to a gastrula. 

GASTRULATION:  The process of invagination, in embryonic development, by which a gastrula is formed. 

GASTRURA:  See Stomatopoda. 

GASTRUROUS:  Pertaining to the Gastrura. 

GAT:  imp. of Get. [Obs.] 

GATCH:  Plaster as used in Persian architecture and decorative art.  Gatch decoration, decoration in plaster often producing design of great beauty. -- Gatch work, work in which gatch is employed; also, articles of gatch ornamentation collectively. 

GATE:  The places which command the entrances or access; hence, place of vantage; power; might. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Matt. xvi. 18.  5. In a lock tumbler, the opening for the stump of the bolt to pass through or into.  6. (Founding) (a) The channel or opening through which metal is poured into the mold; the ingate. (b) The waste piece of metal cast in the opening; a sprue or sullage piece. [Written also geat and git.] Gate chamber, a recess in the side wall of a canal lock, which receives the opened gate.  -- Gate channel. See Gate, 5.  -- Gate hook, the hook-formed piece of a gate hinge.  -- Gate money, entrance money for admission to an inclosure.  -- Gate tender, one in charge of a gate, as at a railroad crossing.  -- Gate valva, a stop valve for a pipe, having a sliding gate which affords a straight passageway when open.  -- Gate vein (Anat.), the portal vein.  -- To break gates (Eng. Univ.), to enter a college inclosure after the hour to which a student has been restricted.  -- To stand in the gate, or gates, to occupy places or advantage, power, or defense. 

GATED:  Having gates. Young. 

GATEHOUSE:  A house connected or associated with a gate. 

GATELESS:  Having no gate. 

GATEMAN:  A gate keeper; a gate tender. 

GATEWAY:  A passage through a fence or wall; a gate; also, a frame, arch, etc., in which a gate in hung, or a structure at an entrance or gate designed for ornament or defense. 

GATEWISE:  In the manner of a gate. Three circles of stones set up gatewise. Fuller. 

GATHER:  To bring together, or nearer together, in masonry, as where the width of a fireplace is rapidly diminished to the width of the flue, or the like.  8. (Naut.)  To haul in; to take up; as, to gather the slack of a rope. To be gathered to one's people, or to one's fathers to die. Gen. xxv. 8.  -- To gather breath, to recover normal breathing after being out of breath; to get breath; to rest. Spenser.  -- To gather one's self together, to collect and dispose one's powers for a great effort, as a beast crouches preparatory to a leap.  -- To gather way (Naut.), to begin to move; to move with increasing speed. 

GATHER:  The inclination forward of the axle journals to keep the wheels from working outward.  3. (Arch.)  The soffit or under surface of the masonry required in gathering. See Gather, v. t., 7. 

GATHERABLE:  Capable of being gathered or collected; deducible from premises. [R.] Godwin. 

GATHERER:  An attachment for making gathers in the cloth. 

GATHERING:  Assembling; collecting; used for gathering or concentrating. Gathering board (Bookbinding), a table or board on which signatures are gathered or assembled, to form a book. Knight.  -- Gathering coal, a lighted coal left smothered in embers over night, about which kindling wood is gathered in the morning.  -- Gathering hoop, a hoop used by coopers to draw together the ends of barrel staves, to allow the hoops to be slipped over them.  -- Gathering peat. (a) A piece of peat used as a gathering coal, to preserve a fire. (b) In Scotland, a fiery peat which was sent round by the Borderers as an alarm signal, as the fiery cross was by the Highlanders.  GATLING GUN Gat"ling gun` (. Etym: [From the inventor, R.J. Gatling.]  An American machine gun, consisting of a cluster of barrels which, being revolved by a crank, are automatically loaded and fired.  Note: The improved Gatling gun can be fired at the rate of 1,200 shots per minute. Farrow.  GATTEN TREE Gat"ten tree`. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. gatter bush.] (Bot.)  A name given to the small trees called guelder-rose (Viburnum Opulus), cornel (Cornus sanguinea), and spindle tree (Euonymus Europæus).  GAT-TOOTHED Gat"-toothed`, a. Etym: [OE. gat goat + tooth. See Goat the animal.]  Goat-toothed; having a lickerish tooth; lustful; wanton. [Obs.] 

GAUCHE:  Winding; twisted; warped; -- applied to curves and surfaces. 

GAUCHERIE:  An awkward action; clumsiness; boorishness. 

GAUCHO:  On of the native inhabitants of the pampas, of Spanish-American descent. They live mostly by rearing cattle. 

GAUD:  To sport or keep festival. [Obs.] "Gauding with his familiars. " [Obs.] Sir T. North. 

GAUD:  To bedeck gaudily; to decorate with gauds or showy trinkets or colors; to paint. [Obs.] "Nicely gauded cheeks." Shak.  GAUD-DAY Gaud"-day`, n.  See Gaudy, a feast. 

GAUDERY:  Finery; ornaments; ostentatious display. [R.] "Tarnished gaudery." Dryden. 

GAUDFUL:  Joyful; showy. [Obs.] 

GAUDILY:  In a gaudy manner. Guthrie. 

GAUDINESS:  The quality of being gaudy. Whitlock. 

GAUDISH:  Gaudy. "Gaudish ceremonies." Bale. 

GAUDLESS:  Destitute of ornament. [R.] 

GAUDY:  One of the large beads in the rosary at which the paternoster is recited. [Obs.] Gower. 

GAUDY:  A feast or festival; -- called also gaud-day and gaudy day. [Oxford Univ.] Conybeare. 

GAUDYGREEN:  Light green. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

GAUFFER:  To plait, crimp, or flute; to goffer, as lace. See Goffer. 

GAUFFERING:  A mode of plaiting or fluting. Gauffering iron, a kind of fluting iron for fabrics.  -- Gauffering press (Flower Manuf.), a press for crimping the leaves and petals into shape. 

GAUFFRE:  A gopher, esp. the pocket gopher. 

GAUGE:  To measure the dimensions of, or to test the accuracy of the form of, as of a part of a gunlock. The vanes nicely gauged on each side. Derham.  4. To draw into equidistant gathers by running a thread through it, as cloth or a garment.  5. To measure the capacity, character, or ability of; to estimate; to judge of. You shall not gauge me By what we do to-night. Shak. 

GAUGE:  Any instrument for ascertaining or regulating the dimensions or forms of things; a templet or template; as, a button maker's gauge.  4. (Physics)  Any instrument or apparatus for measuring the state of a phenomenon, or for ascertaining its numerical elements at any moment; -- usually applied to some particular instrument; as, a rain gauge; a steam gauge.  5. (Naut.) (a) Relative positions of two or more vessels with reference to the wind; as, a vessel has the weather gauge of another when on the windward side of it, and the lee gauge when on the lee side of it. (b) The depth to which a vessel sinks in the water. Totten.  6. The distance between the rails of a railway.  Note: The standard gauge of railroads in most countries is four feet, eight and one half inches. Wide, or broad, gauge, in the United States, is six feet; in England, seven feet, and generally any gauge exceeding standard gauge. Any gauge less than standard gauge is now called narrow gauge. It varies from two feet to three feet six inches.  7. (Plastering)  The quantity of plaster of Paris used with common plaster to accelerate its setting.  8. (Building)  That part of a shingle, slate, or tile, which is exposed to the weather, when laid; also, one course of such shingles, slates, or tiles. Gauge of a carriage, car, etc., the distance between the wheels; -- ordinarily called the track.  -- Gauge cock, a stop cock used as a try cock for ascertaining the height of the water level in a steam boiler.  -- Gauge concussion (Railroads), the jar caused by a car-wheel flange striking the edge of the rail.  -- Gauge glass, a glass tube for a water gauge.  -- Gauge lathe, an automatic lathe for turning a round object having an irregular profile, as a baluster or chair round, to a templet or gauge.  -- Gauge point, the diameter of a cylinder whose altitude is one inch, and contents equal to that of a unit of a given measure; -- a term used in gauging casks, etc.  -- Gauge rod, a graduated rod, for measuring the capacity of barrels, casks, etc.  -- Gauge saw, a handsaw, with a gauge to regulate the depth of cut. Knight.  -- Gauge stuff, a stiff and compact plaster, used in making cornices, moldings, etc., by means of a templet.  -- Gauge wheel, a wheel at the forward end of a plow beam, to determine the depth of the furrow.  -- Joiner's gauge, an instrument used to strike a line parallel to the straight side of a board, etc.  -- Printer's gauge, an instrument to regulate the length of the page.  -- Rain gauge, an instrument for measuring the quantity of rain at any given place.  -- Salt gauge, or Brine gauge, an instrument or contrivance for indicating the degree of saltness of water from its specific gravity, as in the boilers of ocean steamers.  -- Sea gauge, an instrument for finding the depth of the sea.  -- Siphon gauge, a glass siphon tube, partly filled with mercury, -- used to indicate pressure, as of steam, or the degree of rarefaction produced in the receiver of an air pump or other vacuum; a manometer.  -- Sliding gauge. (Mach.) (a) A templet or pattern for gauging the commonly accepted dimensions or shape of certain parts in general use, as screws, railway-car axles, etc. (b) A gauge used only for testing other similar gauges, and preserved as a reference, to detect wear of the working gauges. (c) (Railroads) See Note under Gauge, n., 5.  -- Star gauge (Ordnance), an instrument for measuring the diameter of the bore of a cannon at any point of its length.  -- Steam gauge, an instrument for measuring the pressure of steam, as in a boiler.  -- Tide gauge, an instrument for determining the height of the tides.  -- Vacuum gauge, a species of barometer for determining the relative elasticities of the vapor in the condenser of a steam engine and the air.  -- Water gauge. (a) A contrivance for indicating the height of a water surface, as in a steam boiler; as by a gauge cock or glass. (b) The height of the water in the boiler.  -- Wind gauge, an instrument for measuring the force of the wind on any given surface; an anemometer.  -- Wire gauge, a gauge for determining the diameter of wire or the thickness of sheet metal; also, a standard of size. See under Wire. 

GAUGEABLE:  Capable of being gauged. 

GAUGED:  Tested or measured by, or conformed to, a gauge. Gauged brick, brick molded, rubbed, or cut to an exact size and shape, for arches or ornamental work.  -- Gauged mortar. See Gauge stuff, under Gauge, n. 

GAUGER:  One who gauges; an officer whose business it is to ascertain the contents of casks.  GAUGER-SHIP Gau"ger-ship, n.  The office of a gauger.  GAUGING ROD Gau"ging rod`.  See Gauge rod, under Gauge, n. 

GAULISH:  Pertaining to ancient France, or Gaul; Gallic. [R.] 

GAULT:  A series of beds of clay and marl in the South of England, between the upper and lower greensand of the Cretaceous period. 

GAULTHERIA:  A genus of ericaceous shrubs with evergreen foliage, and, often, edible berries. It includes the American winter-green (Gaultheria procumbens), and the larger-fruited salal of Northwestern America (Gaultheria Shallon). 

GAUNT:  Attenuated, as with fasting or suffering; lean; meager; pinched and grim. "The gaunt mastiff." Pope. A mysterious but visible pestilence, striding gaunt and fleshless across our land. Nichols. 

GAUNTLET:  See Gantlet. 

GAUNTLET:  A rope on which hammocks or clothes are hung for drying. To take up the gauntlet, to accept a challenge.  -- To throw down the gauntlet, to offer or send a challenge. The gauntlet or glove was thrown down by the knight challenging, and was taken up by the one who accepted the challenge; -- hence the phrases. 

GAUNTLETTED:  Wearing a gauntlet. 

GAUNTLY:  In a gaunt manner; meagerly.  GAUNTREE; GAUNTRY Gaun"tree, Gaun"try, n. Etym: [F. chantier, LL. cantarium, fr. L. canterius trellis, sort of frame.]  1. A frame for supporting barrels in a cellar or elsewhere. Sir W. Scott.  2. (Engin.)  A scaffolding or frame carrying a crane or other structure. Knight. 

GAUR:  An East Indian species of wild cattle (Bibos gauris), of large size and an untamable disposition. [Spelt also gour.] 

GAURE:  To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GAUSS:  The C.G.S. unit of density of magnetic field, equal to a field of one line of force per square centimeter, being thus adopted as an international unit at Paris in 1900; sometimes used as a unit of intensity of magnetic field. It was previously suggested as a unit of magnetomotive force. 

GAUSSAGE:  The intensity of a magnetic field expressed in C.G.S. units, or gausses. 

GAUZE:  A very thin, slight, transparent stuff, generally of silk; also, any fabric resembling silk gauze; as, wire gauze; cotton gauze. Gauze dresser, one employed in stiffening gauze. 

GAUZE:  Having the qualities of gauze; thin; light; as, gauze merino underclothing. 

GAUZINESS:  The quality of being gauzy; flimsiness. Ruskin. 

GAUZY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, gauze; thin and slight as gauze. 

GAVAGE:  Forced feeding (as of poultry or infants) by means of a tube passed through the mouth down to the stomach. 

GAVE:  imp. of Give. 

GAVEL:  A gable. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

GAVEL:  A small heap of grain, not tied up into a bundle. Wright. 

GAVEL:  Tribute; toll; custom. [Obs.] See Gabel. Cowell. 

GAVELET:  An ancient special kind of cessavit used in Kent and London for the recovery of rent. [Obs.] 

GAVELKIND:  A tenure by which land descended from the father to all his sons in equal portions, and the land of a brother, dying without issue, descended equally to his brothers. It still prevails in the county of Kent. Cowell. 

GAVELOCHE:  Same as Gavelock. 

GAVERICK:  The European red gurnard (Trigla cuculus). [Prov. Eng.] 

GAVIAE:  The division of birds which includes the gulls and terns. 

GAVIAL:  A large Asiatic crocodilian (Gavialis Gangeticus); -- called also nako, and Gangetic crocodile.  Note: The gavial has a long, slender muzzle, teeth of nearly uniform size, and feet completely webbed. It inhabits the Ganges and other rivers of India. The name is also applied to several allied fossil species. 

GAVOT:  A kind of difficult dance; a dance tune, the air of which has two brisk and lively, yet dignified, strains in common time, each played twice over. [Written also gavotte.] 

GAWBY:  A baby; a dunce. [Prov. Eng.] 

GAWK:  To act like a gawky. 

GAWKY:  Foolish and awkward; clumsy; clownish; as, gawky behavior.  -- n. A fellow who is awkward from being overgrown, or from stupidity, a gawk. 

GAWN:  A small tub or lading vessel. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson. 

GAWNTREE:  See Gauntree. 

GAY:  An ornament [Obs.] L'Estrange. 

GAYAL:  A Southern Asiatic species of wild cattle (Bibos frontalis). 

GAYDIANG:  A vessel of Anam, with two or three masts, lofty triangular sails, and in construction somewhat resembling a Chinese junk. 

GAYETY:  The process of removing moisture from the blast of an iron blast furnace by reducing its temperature so far that it will not remain suspended as vapor in the blast current, but will be deposited as snow in the cooling apparatus. The resultant uniformly dehydrated blast effects great economy in fuel consumption, and promotes regularity of furnace operation, and certainty of furnace control. 

GAYLUSSITE:  A yellowish white, translucent mineral, consisting of the carbonates of lime and soda, with water. 

GAYNE:  To avail. [Obs.] 

GAYNESS:  Gayety; finery. [R.] 

GAYSOME:  Full of gayety. Mir. for Mag. 

GAYTRE:  The dogwood tree. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GAZE:  To fixx the eyes in a steady and earnest look; to look with eagerness or curiosity, as in admiration, astonishment, or with studious attention. Why stand ye gazing up into heaven Acts i. 11.  Syn.  -- To gape; stare; look.  -- To Gaze, Gape, Stare. To gaze is to look with fixed and prolonged attention, awakened by excited interest or elevated emotion; to gape is to look fixedly, with open mouth and feelings of ignorant wonder; to stare is to look with the fixedness of insolence or of idiocy. The lover of nature gazes with delight on the beauties of the landscape; the rustic gapes with wonder at the strange sights of a large city; the idiot stares on those around with a vacant look. 

GAZE:  To view with attention; to gaze on . [R.] And gazed a while the ample sky. Milton. 

GAZEEBO:  A summerhouse so situated as to command an extensive prospect. [Colloq.] 

GAZEFUL:  Gazing. [R.] Spenser. 

GAZEHOUND:  A hound that pursues by the sight rather than by the scent. Sir W. Scott. 

GAZEL:  The black currant; also, the wild plum. [Prov. Eng.] 

GAZEL:  See Gazelle. 

GAZELLE:  One of several small, swift, elegantly formed species of antelope, of the genus Gazella, esp. G. dorcas; -- called also algazel, corinne, korin, and kevel. The gazelles are celebrated for the luster and soft expression of their eyes. [Written also gazel.]  Note: The common species of Northern Africa (Gazella dorcas); the Arabian gazelle, or ariel (G. Arabica); the mohr of West Africa (G. mohr); the Indian (G. Bennetti); the ahu or Persian (G. subgutturosa); and the springbok or tsebe (G. euchore) of South Africa, are the best known. 

GAZEMENT:  View. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GAZER:  One who gazes. 

GAZET:  A Venetian coin, worth about three English farthings, or one and a half cents. [Obs.] 

GAZETTE:  A newspaper; a printed sheet published periodically; esp., the official journal published by the British government, and containing legal and state notices. 

GAZETTE:  To announce or publish in a gazette; to announce officially, as an appointment, or a case of bankruptcy. 

GAZINGSTOCK:  A person or thing gazed at with scorn or abhorrence; an object of curiosity or contempt. Bp. Hall. 

GAZOGENE:  A portable apparatus for making soda water or aërated liquids on a small scale. Knight. 

GAZON:  One of the pieces of sod used to line or cover parapets and the faces of earthworks.  GE- Ge-.  An Anglo-Saxon prefix. See Y-. 

GEAL:  To congeal. [Obs. or Scot.] 

GEAN:  A species of cherry tree common in Europe (Prunus avium); also, the fruit, which is usually small and dark in color. 

GEANTICLINAL:  An upward bend or flexure of a considerable portion of the earth's crust, resulting in the formation of a class of mountain elevations called anticlinoria; -- opposed to geosynclinal. 

GEAR:  See 1st Jeer (b).  10. Anything worthless; stuff; nonsense; rubbish. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Wright. That servant of his that confessed and uttered this gear was an honest man. Latimer. Bever gear. See Bevel gear.  -- Core gear, a mortise gear, or its skeleton. See Mortise wheel, under Mortise.  -- Expansion gear (Steam Engine), the arrangement of parts for cutting off steam at a certain part of the stroke, so as to leave it to act upon the piston expansively; the cut-off. See under Expansion.  -- Feed gear. See Feed motion, under Feed, n.  -- Gear cutter, a machine or tool for forming the teeth of gear wheels by cutting.  -- Gear wheel, any cogwheel.  -- Running gear. See under Running.  -- To throw in, or out of, gear (Mach.), to connect or disconnect (wheelwork or couplings, etc.); to put in, or out of, working relation. 

GEAR:  To provide with gearing. Double geared, driven through twofold compound gearing, to increase the force or speed; -- said of a machine. 

GEAR:  To be in, or come into, gear. 

GEARING:  The parts by which motion imparted to one portion of an engine or machine is transmitted to another, considered collectively; as, the valve gearing of locomotive engine; belt gearing; esp., a train of wheels for transmitting and varying motion in machinery. Frictional gearing. See under Frictional.  -- Gearing chain, an endless chain transmitted motion from one sprocket wheel to another. See Illust. of Chain wheel.  -- Spur gearing, gearing in which the teeth or cogs are ranged round either the concave or the convex surface (properly the latter) of a cylindrical wheel; -- for transmitting motion between parallel shafts, etc. 

GEASON:  Rare; wonderful. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GEAT:  The channel or spout through which molten metal runs into a mold in casting. [Written also git, gate.] 

GECARCINIAN:  A land crab of the genus Gecarcinus, or of allied genera. 

GECK:  To jeer; to show contempt. Sir W. Scott. 

GECKO:  Any lizard of the family Geckonidæ. The geckoes are small, carnivorous, mostly nocturnal animals with large eyes and vertical, elliptical pupils. Their toes are generally expanded, and furnished with adhesive disks, by which they can run over walls and ceilings. They are numerous in warm countries, and a few species are found in Europe and the United States. See Wall gecko, Fanfoot. 

GECKOTIAN:  A gecko.  GED; GEDD Ged, Gedd (, n.  The European pike. 

GEE:  To turn to the off side, or from the driver (i.e., in the United States, to the right side); -- said of cattle, or a team; used most frequently in the imperative, often with off, by drivers of oxen, in directing their teams, and opposed to haw, or hoi. [Written also jee.]  Note: In England, the teamster walks on the right-hand side of the cattle; in the United States, on the left-hand side. In all cases, however, gee means to turn from the driver, and haw to turn toward him. Gee ho, or Gee whoa. Same as Gee. 

GEE:  To cause (a team) to turn to the off side, or from the driver. [Written also jee.]  GEER; GEERING Geer, Geer"ing. [Obs.]  See Gear, Gearing. 

GEESE:  pl. of Goose. 

GEEST:  Alluvial matter on the surface of land, not of recent origin. R. Jameson. 

GEET:  Jet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GEEZ:  The original native name for the ancient Ethiopic language or people. See Ethiopic. 

GEEZER:  A queer old fellow; an old chap; an old woman. [Contemptuous, Slang or Dial.] 

GEHENNA:  The valley of Hinnom, near Jerusalem, where some of the Israelites sacrificed their children to Moloch, which, on this account, was afterward regarded as a place of abomination, and made a receptacle for all the refuse of the city, perpetual fires being kept up in order to prevent pestilential effluvia. In the New Testament the name is transferred, by an easy metaphor, to Hell. The pleasant valley of Hinnom. Tophet thence And black Gehenna called, the type of Hell. Milton. 

GEIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, earthy or vegetable mold. Geic acid. (Chem.) See Humin. 

GEIN:  See Humin. 

GEISHA:  A Japanese singing and dancing girl.  GEISSLER TUBE Geis"sler tube`. (Elec.)  A glass tube provided with platinum electrodes, and containing some gas under very low tension, which becomes luminous when an electrical discharge is passed through it; -- so called from the name of a noted maker in germany. It is called also Plücker tube, from the German physicist who devised it. 

GEITONOGAMY:  Fertilization of flowers by pollen from other flowers on the same plant. 

GELABLE:  Capable of being congealed; capable of being converted into jelly. 

GELADA:  A baboon (Gelada Ruppelli) of Abyssinia, remarkable for the length of the hair on the neck and shoulders of the adult male. 

GELASTIC:  Pertaining to laughter; used in laughing. "Gelastic muscles." Sir T. Browne. 

GELATIFICATION:  The formation of gelatin. 

GELATIGENOUS:  Producing, or yielding, gelatin; gelatiniferous; as, the gelatigeneous tissues.  GELATIN; GELATINE Gel"a*tin  , Gel"a*tine (, n. Etym: [F. gélatine, fr. L. gelare to congeal. See Geal.] (Chem.) Animal jelly; glutinous material obtained from animal tissues by prolonged boiling. Specifically (Physiol. Chem.), a nitrogeneous colloid, not existing as such in the animal body, but formed by the hydrating action of boiling water on the collagen of various kinds of connective tissue (as tendons, bones, ligaments, etc.). Its distinguishing character is that of dissolving in hot water, and forming a jelly on cooling. It is an important ingredient of calf's-foot jelly, isinglass, glue, etc. It is used as food, but its nutritious qualities are of a low order.  Note: Both spellings, gelatin and gelatine, are in good use, but the tendency of writers on physiological chemistry favors the form in - in, as in the United States Dispensatory, the United States Pharmacopoeia, Fownes' Watts' Chemistry, Brande & Cox's Dictionary. Blasting gelatin, an explosive, containing about ninety-five parts of nitroglycerin and five of collodion.  -- Gelatin process, a name applied to a number of processes in the arts, involving the use of gelatin. Especially: (a) (Photog.) A dry- plate process in which gelatin is used as a substitute for collodion as the sensitized material. This is the dry-plate process in general use, and plates of extreme sensitiveness are produced by it. (b) (Print.) A method of producing photographic copies of drawings, engravings, printed pages, etc., and also of photographic pictures, which can be printed from in a press with ink, or (in some applications of the process) which can be used as the molds of stereotype or electrotype plates. (c) (Print. or Copying) A method of producing facsimile copies of an original, written or drawn in aniline ink upon paper, thence transferred to a cake of gelatin softened with glycerin, from which impressions are taken upon ordinary paper.  -- Vegetable gelatin. See Gliadin. 

GELATINATE:  To convert into gelatin, or into a substance resembling jelly. 

GELATINATE:  To be converted into gelatin, or into a substance like jelly. Lapis lazuli, if calcined, does not effervesce, but gelatinates with the mineral acids. Kirwan. 

GELATINATION:  The act of process of converting into gelatin, or a substance like jelly. 

GELATINE:  Same as Gelatin. 

GELATINIFEROUS:  Yielding gelatin on boiling with water; capable of gelatination. 

GELATINIFORM:  Having the form of gelatin. 

GELATINIZATION:  Same as Gelatination. 

GELATINIZE:  To coat, or otherwise treat, with gelatin. 

GELATINIZE:  Same as Gelatinate, v. i. 

GELATINOUS:  Of the nature and consistence of gelatin or the jelly; resembling jelly; viscous. 

GELATION:  The process of becoming solid by cooling; a cooling and solidifying. 

GELD:  Money; tribute; compensation; ransom.[Obs.]  Note: This word occurs in old law books in composition, as in danegeld, or danegelt, a tax imposed by the Danes; weregeld, compensation for the life of a man, etc. 

GELDABLE:  Capable of being gelded. 

GELDABLE:  Liable to taxation. [Obs.] Burrill. 

GELDER:  One who gelds or castrates.  GELDER-ROSE Gel"der-rose, n.  Same as Guelder-rose. 

GELDING:  A castrated animal; -- usually applied to a horse, but formerly used also of the human male. They went down both into the water, Philip and the gelding, and Philip baptized him. Wyclif (Acts viii. 38). 

GELDING:  from Geld, v. t. 

GELID:  Cold; very cold; frozen. "Gelid founts." Thompson. 

GELIDITY:  The state of being gelid. 

GELIDLY:  In a gelid manner; coldly. 

GELIDNESS:  The state of being gelid; gelidity. 

GELLY:  Jelly. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GELOSCOPY:  Divination by means of laughter. 

GELOSE:  An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate, found in Gelidium, agar-agar, and other seaweeds. 

GELSEMIC:  Gelseminic. 

GELSEMINE:  An alkaloid obtained from the yellow jasmine (Gelsemium sempervirens), as a bitter white semicrystalline substance; -- called also gelsemia. 

GELSEMINIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the yellow jasmine (Gelsemium sempervirens); as, gelseminic acid, a white crystalline substance resembling esculin. 

GELSEMIUM:  A genus of climbing plants. The yellow (false) jasmine (Gelsemium sempervirens) is a native of the Southern United States. It has showy and deliciously fragrant flowers.  2. (Med.)  The root of the yellow jasmine, used in malarial fevers, etc. 

GELT:  Trubute, tax. [Obs.] All these the king granted unto them . . . free from all gelts and payments, in a most full and ample manner. Fuller. 

GELT:  A gelding. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

GELT:  Gilding; tinsel. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GEM:  A bud. From the joints of thy prolific stem A swelling knot is raised called a gem. Denham.  2. A precious stone of any kind, as the ruby, emerald, topaz, sapphire, beryl, spinel, etc., especially when cut and polished for ornament; a jewel. Milton.  3. Anything of small size, or expressed within brief limits, which is regarded as a gem on account of its beauty or value, as a small picture, a verse of poetry, a witty or wise saying. Artificial gem, an imitation of a gem, made of glass colored with metallic oxide. Cf. Paste, and Strass. 

GEMARA:  The second part of the Talmud, or the commentary on the Mishna (which forms the first part or text). 

GEMARIC:  Pertaining to the Gemara. 

GEMARIST:  One versed in the Gemara, or adhering to its teachings. 

GEMEL:  Coupled; paired. Bars gemel (Her.), two barrulets placed near and parallel to each other. 

GEMEL:  One of the barrulets placed parallel and closed to each other. Cf. Bars gemel, under Gemel, a. Two gemels silver between two griffins passant. Strype. Gemel hinge (Locksmithing), a hinge consisting of an eye or loop and a hook.  -- Gemel ring, a ring with two or more links; a gimbal. See Gimbal.  -- Gemel window, a window with two bays.  GEMELLIPA-ROUS Gem`el*lip"a-rous, a. Etym: [L. gemellipara, fem., gemellus twin + parere to bear, produce.]  Producing twins. [R.] Bailey. 

GEMINAL:  A pair. [Obs.] Drayton. 

GEMINATE:  In pairs or twains; two together; binate; twin; as, geminate flowers. Gray. 

GEMINATE:  To double. [R.] B. Jonson. 

GEMINATION:  A doubling; duplication; repetition. [R.] Boyle. 

GEMINI:  A constellation of the zodiac, containing the two bright stars Castor and Pollux; also, the third sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about May 20th. 

GEMINIFLOROUS:  Having the flowers arranged in pairs. 

GEMINOUS:  Double; in pairs. Sir T. Browne. 

GEMINY:  Twins; a pair; a couple. [Obs.] Shak. 

GEMITORES:  A division of birds including the true pigeons. 

GEMMA:  A leaf bud, as distinguished from a flower bud.  2. (Biol.)  A bud spore; one of the small spores or buds in the reproduction of certain Protozoa, which separate one at a time from the parent cell. 

GEMMACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to gems or to gemmæ; of the nature of, or resembling, gems or gemmæ. 

GEMMARY:  Of or pertaining to gems. 

GEMMARY:  A receptacle for jewels or gems; a jewel house; jewels or gems, collectively. 

GEMMATE:  Having buds; reproducing by buds. 

GEMMATED:  Having buds; adorned with gems or jewels. 

GEMMATION:  The formation of a new individual, either animal or vegetable, by a process of budding; an asexual method of reproduction; gemmulation; gemmiparity. See Budding.  2. (Bot.)  The arrangement of buds on the stalk; also, of leaves in the bud. 

GEMMEOUS:  Pertaining to gems; of the nature of gems; resembling gems. Pennant. 

GEMMIFEROUS:  Producing gems or buds; (Biol.)  multiplying by buds. 

GEMMIFICATION:  The production of a bud or gem. 

GEMMIFLORATE:  Having flowers like buds. 

GEMMINESS:  The state or quality of being gemmy; spruceness; smartness.  GEMMIPARA; GEMMIPARES Gem*mip"a*ra Gem*mip"a*res n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. gemma bud + parere to produce.] (Zoöl.)  Animals which increase by budding, as hydroids. 

GEMMIPARITY:  Reproduction by budding; gemmation. See Budding. 

GEMMIPAROUS:  Producing buds; reproducing by buds. See Gemmation, 1. 

GEMMOSITY:  The quality or characteristics of a gem or jewel. [Obs.] Bailey. 

GEMMULATION:  See Gemmation. 

GEMMULIFEROUS:  Bearing or producing gemmules or buds. 

GEMOTE:  A meeting; -- used in combination, as, Witenagemote, an assembly of the wise men. 

GEMS:  The chamois. 

GEMSBOK:  A South African antelope (Oryx Capensis), having long, sharp, nearly straight horns.  GEMS-HORN Gems"-horn`, n. Etym: [G., prop., chamois horn.] (Mus.)  An organ stop with conical tin pipes. 

GEMUL:  A small South American deer (Furcifer Chilensis), with simple forked horns. [Written also guemul.]  -GEN -gen. Etym: [(1) From Gr. -gen-, from the same root as ge`nos race, stock (see Genus). (2) From Gr. suffix -genh`s born. Cf. F. -gène.]  1. A suffix used in scientific words in the sense of producing, generating: as, amphigen, amidogen, halogen.  2. A suffix meaning produced, generated; as, exogen. 

GENAPPE:  A worsted yarn or cord of peculiar smoothness, used in the manufacture of braid, fringe, etc. Simmonds. 

GENDARME:  One of a body of heavy cavalry. [Obs.] [France]  2. An armed policeman in France. Thackeray. 

GENDARMERY:  The body of gendarmes. 

GENDER:  A classification of nouns, primarily according to sex; and secondarily according to some fancied or imputed quality associated with sex. Gender is a grammatical distinction and applies to words only. Sex is natural distinction and applies to living objects. R. Morris.  Note: Adjectives and pronouns are said to vary in gender when the form is varied according to the gender of the words to which they refer. 

GENDER:  To beget; to engender. 

GENDER:  To copulate; to breed. [R.] Shak. 

GENDERLESS:  Having no gender. 

GENEAGENESIS:  Alternate generation. See under Generation. 

GENEALOGIC:  Genealogical. 

GENEALOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to genealogy; as, a genealogical table; genealogical order.  -- Gen`e*a*log"ic*al*ly, adv. Genealogical tree, a family lineage or genealogy drawn out under the form of a tree and its branches. 

GENEALOGIST:  One who traces genealogies or the descent of persons or families. 

GENEALOGIZE:  To investigate, or relate the history of, descents. 

GENEARCH:  The chief of a family or tribe. 

GENERA:  See Genus. 

GENERABILITY:  Capability of being generated. Johnstone. 

GENERABLE:  Capable of being generated or produced. Bentley. 

GENERAL:  One of the chief military officers of a government or country; the commander of an army, of a body of men not less than a brigade. In European armies, the highest military rank next below field marshal.  Note: In the United States the office of General of the Army has been created by temporary laws, and has been held only by Generals U. S. Grant, W. T. Sherman, and P. H. Sheridan. Popularly, the title General is given to various general officers, as General, Lieutenant general, Major general, Brigadier general, Commissary general, etc. See Brigadier general, Lieutenant general, Major general, in the Vocabulary.  3. (Mil.)  The roll of the drum which calls the troops together; as, to beat the general.  4. (Eccl.)  The chief of an order of monks, or of all the houses or congregations under the same rule.  5. The public; the people; the vulgar. [Obs.] Shak. In general, in the main; for the most part. 

GENERALIA:  Generalities; general terms. J. S. Mill. 

GENERALISSIMO:  The chief commander of an army; especially, the commander in chief of an army consisting of two or more grand divisions under separate commanders; -- a title used in most foreign countries. 

GENERALIZABLE:  Capable of being generalized, or reduced to a general form of statement, or brought under a general rule. Extreme cases are . . . not generalizable. Coleridge 

GENERALIZE:  To form into a genus; to view objects in their relations to a genus or class; to take general or comprehensive views. 

GENERALIZED:  Comprising structural characters which are separated in more specialized forms; synthetic; as, a generalized type. 

GENERALIZER:  One who takes general or comprehensive views. Tyndall. 

GENERALNESS:  The condition or quality of being general; frequency; commonness. Sir P. Sidney. 

GENERALTY:  Generality. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

GENERANT:  Generative; producing; esp. (Geom.),  acting as a generant. 

GENERANT:  A generatrix. 

GENERATE:  To trace out, as a line, figure, or solid, by the motion of a point or a magnitude of inferior order. 

GENERATION:  The formation or production of any geometrical magnitude, as a line, a surface, a solid, by the motion, in accordance with a mathematical law, of a point or a magnitude; as, the generation of a line or curve by the motion of a point, of a surface by a line, a sphere by a semicircle, etc.  7. (Biol.)  The aggregate of the functions and phenomene which attend reproduction.  Note: There are four modes of generation in the animal kingdom: scissiparity or by fissiparous generation, gemmiparity or by budding, germiparity or by germs, and oviparity or by ova. Alternate generation (Biol.), alternation of sexual with asexual generation, in which the products of one process differ from those of the other, -- a form of reproduction common both to animal and vegetable organisms. In the simplest form, the organism arising from sexual generation produces offspiring unlike itself, agamogenetically. These, however, in time acquire reproductive organs, and from their impregnated germs the original parent form is reproduced. In more complicated cases, the first series of organisms produced agamogenetically may give rise to others by a like process, and these in turn to still other generations. Ultimately, however, a generation is formed which develops sexual organs, and the original form is reproduced.  -- Spontaneous generation (Biol.), the fancied production of living organisms without previously existing parents from inorganic matter, or from decomposing organic matter, a notion which at one time had many supporters; abiogenesis. 

GENERATIVE:  Having the power of generating, propagating, originating, or producing. "That generative particle." Bentley. 

GENERATOR:  The principal sound or sounds by which others are produced; the fundamental note or root of the common chord; -- called also generating tone. 

GENERATRIX:  That which generates; the point, or the mathematical magnitude, which, by its motion, generates another magnitude, as a line, surface, or solid; -- called also describent.  GENERIC; GENERICAL Ge*ner"ic, Ge*ner"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. genus, generis, race, kind: cf. F. générique. See Gender.]  1. (Biol.)  Pertaining to a genus or kind; relating to a genus, as distinct from a species, or from another genus; as, a generic description; a generic difference; a generic name.  2. Very comprehensive; pertaining or appropriate to large classes or their characteristics; -- opposed to Ant: specific. 

GENERICALLY:  With regard to a genus, or an extensive class; as, an animal generically distinct from another, or two animals or plants generically allied. 

GENERICALNESS:  The quality of being generic. 

GENERIFICATION:  The act or process of generalizing. Out of this the universal is elaborated by generification. Sir W. Hamilton. 

GENEROUS:  The closing subdivision of the Hamilton period in the American Devonian system; -- so called because the formations of this period crop out in Genesee, New York. 

GENESIAL:  Of or relating to generation. 

GENESIOLGY:  The doctrine or science of generation. 

GENESIS:  Same as Generation.  GENET; GENETTE Gen"et, Ge*nette" (, n. Etym: [F. genette, Sp. gineta, fr. Ar. jarnei  1. (Zoöl.)  One of several species of small Carnivora of the genus Genetta, allied to the civets, but having the scent glands less developed, and without a pouch.  Note: The common genet (Genetta vulgaris) of Southern Europe, Asia Minor, and North Africa, is dark gray, spotted with black. The long tail is banded with black and white. The Cape genet (G. felina), and the berbe (G. pardina), are related African species.  2. The fur of the common genet (Genetta vulgaris); also, any skin dressed in imitation of this fur. 

GENET:  A small-sized, well-proportioned, Spanish horse; a jennet. Shak. 

GENETHLIAC:  Pertaining to nativities; calculated by astrologers; showing position of stars at one's birth. Howell. 

GENETHLIACAL:  Genethliac. 

GENETHLIACS:  The science of calculating nativities, or predicting the future events of life from the stars which preside at birth. Jhonson. 

GENETHLIALOGY:  Divination as to the destinies of one newly born; the act or art of casting nativities; astrology. 

GENETHLIATIC:  One who calculates nativities. Sir W. Drummond. 

GENETIC:  Same as Genetical. 

GENETICAL:  Pertaining to, concerned with, or determined by, the genesis of anything, or its natural mode of production or development. This historical, genetical method of viewing prior systems of philosophy. Hare. 

GENETICALLY:  In a genetical manner. 

GENEVA:  The chief city of Switzerland. Geneva Bible, a translation of the Bible into English, made and published by English refugees in Geneva (Geneva, 1560; London, 1576). It was the first English Bible printed in Roman type instead of the ancient black letter, the first which recognized the division into verses, and the first which ommited the Apocrypha. In form it was a small quarto, and soon superseded the large folio of Cranmer's translation. Called also Genevan Bible.  -- Geneva convention (Mil.), an agreement made by representatives of the great continental powers at Geneva and signed in 1864, establishing new and more humane regulation regarding the treatment of the sick and wounded and the status of those who minister to them in war. Ambulances and military hospitals are made neutral, and this condition affects physicians, chaplains, nurses, and the ambulance corps. Great Britain signed the convention in 1865.  -- Geneva cross (Mil.), a red Greek cross on a white ground; -- the flag and badge adopted in the Geneva convention. 

GENEVA:  A strongly alcoholic liquor, flavores with juniper berries; -- made in Holland; Holland gin; Hollands. 

GENEVAN:  Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevese. 

GENEVANISM:  Strict Calvinism. Bp. Montagu. 

GENEVESE:  Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevan.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or inhabitant of Geneva; collectively, the inhabitants of Geneva; people of Geneva. 

GENIAL:  Same as Genian. 

GENIALITY:  The quality of being genial; sympathetic cheerfulness; warmth of disposition and manners. 

GENIALNESS:  The quality of being genial. 

GENIAN:  Of or pertaining to the chin; mental; as, the genian prominence. 

GENICULATE:  Bent abruptly at an angle, like the knee when bent; as, a geniculate stem; a geniculate ganglion; a geniculate twin crystal. 

GENICULATE:  To form joints or knots on. [R.] Cockeram. 

GENICULATED:  Same as Geniculate. 

GENIE:  See Genius. 

GENIO:  A man of a particular turn of mind. [R.] Tatler. 

GENIOHYOID:  Of or pertaining to the chin and hyoid bone; as, the geniohyoid muscle.  GENIP; GENIP TREE Gen"ip, n., or Genip tree.  1. Any tree or shrub of the genus Genipa.  2.  The West Indian sapindaceous tree Melicocca bijuga, which yields the honeyberry; also, the related trees Exothea paniculata and E. trifoliata. 

GENIPAP:  The edible fruit of a West Indian tree (Genipa Americana) of the order Rubiaceæ. It is oval in shape, as a large as a small orange, of a pale greenish color, and with dark purple juice. 

GENISTA:  A genus of plants including the common broom of Western Europe. 

GENITAL:  Pertaining to generation, or to the generative organs. Genital cord (Anat.), a cord developed in the fetus by the union of portions of the Wolffian and Müllerian ducts and giving rise to parts of the urogenital passages in both sexes. 

GENITALS:  The organs of generation; the sexual organs; the private parts. 

GENITING:  A species of apple that ripens very early. Bacon. 

GENITIVAL:  Possessing genitive from; pertaining to, or derived from, the genitive case; as, a genitival adverb.  -- Gen`i*ti"val*ly, adv. 

GENITIVE:  Of or pertaining to that case (as the second case of Latin and Greek nouns) which expresses source or possession. It corresponds to the possessive case in English. 

GENITIVE:  The genitive case. Genitive absolute, a construction in Greek similar to the ablative absolute in Latin. See Ablative absolute. 

GENITOCRURAL:  Pertaining to the genital organs and the thigh; -- applied especially to one of the lumbar nerves. 

GENITOR:  The genitals. [Obs.] Holland. 

GENITOURINARY:  See Urogenital. 

GENITURE:  Generation; procreation; birth. Dryden. 

GENIUS:  A rich glazed cake, with almonds, pistachios, filberts, or other nuts; also, a rich currant cake with almonds on the top. 

GENOESE:  Of or pertaining to Genoa, a city of Italy.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or inhabitant of Genoa; collectively, the people of Genoa. 

GENOUILLERE:  A metal plate covering the knee.  2. (Fort.)  That part of a parapet which lies between the gun platform and the bottom of an embrasure.  -GENOUS -ge*nous. Etym: [-gen + -ous.]  A suffix signifying producing, yielding; as, alkaligenous; endogenous. 

GENRE:  A style of painting, sculpture, or other imitative art, which illustrates everyday life and manners. 

GENS:  A minor subdivision of a tribe, among American aborigines. It includes those who have a common descent, and bear the same totem. 

GENTEELISH:  Somewhat genteel. 

GENTEELLY:  In a genteel manner. 

GENTEELNESS:  The quality of being genteel.  GENTERIE; GENTRIE Gen"ter*ie, Gen"trie (, n. Etym: [OE. See Gentry.]  Nobility of birth or of character; gentility. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GENTIAN:  Any one of a genus (Gentiana) of herbaceous plants with opposite leaves and a tubular four- or five-lobed corolla, usually blue, but sometimes white, yellow, or red. See Illust. of Capsule.  Note: Many species are found on the highest mountains of Europe, Asia, and America, and some are prized for their beauty, as the Alpine (Gentiana verna, Bavarica, and excisa), and the American fringed gentians (G. crinita and G. detonsa). Several are used as tonics, especially the bitter roots of Gentiana lutea, the officinal gentian of the pharmacopoeias. Horse gentian, fever root.  -- Yellow gentian (Bot.), the officinal gentian (Gentiana lutea). See Bitterwort. 

GENTIANACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Gentianaceæ) of which the gentian is the type. 

GENTIANELLA:  A kind of blue color. Johnson. 

GENTIANIC:  Pertaining to or derived from the gentian; as, gentianic acid. 

GENTIANINE:  A bitter, crystallizable substance obtained from gentian. 

GENTIANOSE:  A crystallizable, sugarlike substance, with a slightly sweetish taste, obtained from the gentian. 

GENTIL:  Gentle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GENTILE:  One of a non-Jewish nation; one neither a Jew nor a Christian; a worshiper of false gods; a heathen.  Note: The Hebrews included in the term goyim, or nations, all the tribes of men who had not received the true faith, and were not circumcised. The Christians translated goyim by the L. gentes, and imitated the Jews in giving the name gentiles to all nations who were neither Jews nor Christians. In civil affairs, the denomination was given to all nations who were not Romans.  Syn.  -- Pagan; heathen. See Pagan. 

GENTILE:  Denoting a race or country; as, a gentile noun or adjective.  GENTILE-FALCON Gen"tile-fal`con, n. (Zoöl.)  See Falcon-gentil. 

GENTILESSE:  Gentleness; courtesy; kindness; nobility. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GENTILISH:  Heathenish; pagan. 

GENTILIZE:  To render gentile or gentlemanly; as, to gentilize your unworthy sones. [R.] Sylvester. 

GENTILLY:  In a gentle or hoble manner; frankly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GENTIOPIKRIN:  A bitter, yellow, crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and obtained from the gentian. 

GENTISIN:  A tasteless, yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from the gentian; -- called also gentianin. 

GENTLE:  A dipterous larva used as fish bait. 

GENTLE:  Persons of gentle or good family and breeding. Etym: [Generally in the United States in the plural form.] Shak.  GENTLE-HEARTED Gen"tle-heart`ed, a.  Having a kind or gentle disposition. Shak.  -- Gen"tle-heart`ed*ness, n. 

GENTLEMAN:  One who bears arms, but has no title.  4. The servant of a man of rank. The count's gentleman, one Cesario. Shak.  5. A man, irrespective of condition; -- used esp. in the plural (= citizens; people), in addressing men in popular assemblies, etc.  Note: In Great Britain, the term gentleman is applied in a limited sense to those having coats of arms, but who are without a title, and, in this sense, gentlemen hold a middle rank between the nobility and yeomanry. In a more extended sense, it includes every man above the rank of yeoman, comprehending the nobility. In the United States, the term is applied to men of education and good breeding of every occupation. Gentleman commoner, one of the highest class of commoners at the University of Oxford.  -- Gentleman usher, one who ushers visitors into the presence of a sovereign, etc.  -- Gentleman usher of the black rod, an usher belonging to the Order of the Garter, whose chief duty is to serve as official messenger of the House of Lords.  -- Gentlemen-at-arms, a band of forty gentlemen who attend the sovereign on state occasions; formerly called gentlemen pensioners. [Eng.] 

GENTLEMANHOOD:  The qualities or condition of a gentleman. [R.] Thackeray.  GENTLEMANLIKE; GENTLEMANLY Gen"tle*man*like`, Gen"tle*man*ly, a.  Of, pertaining to, resembling, or becoming, a gentleman; well- behaved; courteous; polite. 

GENTLEMANLINESS:  The state of being gentlemanly; gentlemanly conduct or manners. 

GENTLEMANSHIP:  The carriage or quality of a gentleman.  GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT Gen"tle*men's a*gree"ment.  An agreement binding only as a matter of honor; often, specif., such an agreement among the heads of industrial or merchantile enterprises, the terms of which could not be included and enforced in a legal contract. 

GENTLENESS:  The quality or state of being gentle, well-born, mild, benevolent, docile, etc.; gentility; softness of manners, disposition, etc.; mildness. 

GENTLESHIP:  The deportment or conduct of a gentleman. [Obs.] Ascham. 

GENTLESSE:  Gentilesse; gentleness. [Obs.] 

GENTLY:  In a gentle manner. My mistress gently chides the fault I made. Dryden. 

GENTOO:  A native of Hindostan; a Hindoo. [Archaic] 

GENTY:  Neat; trim. [Scot.] Burns. 

GENUFLECT:  To bend the knee, as in worship. 

GENUFLECTION:  The act of bending the knee, particularly in worship. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

GENUINE:  Belonging to, or proceeding from, the original stock; native; hence, not counterfeit, spurious, false, or adulterated; authentic; real; natural; true; pure; as, a genuine text; a genuine production; genuine materials. "True, genuine night." Dryden.  Syn.  -- Authentic; real; true; pure; unalloyed; unadulterated. See Authentic.  -- Gen"u*ine*ly, adv.  -- Gen"u*ine*ness, n. The evidence, both internal and external, against the genuineness of these letters, is overwhelming. Macaulay. 

GENUS:  A class of objects divided into several subordinate species; a class more extensive than a species; a precisely defined and exactly divided class; one of the five predicable conceptions, or sorts of terms.  2. (Biol.)  An assemblage of species, having so many fundamental points of structure in common, that in the judgment of competent scientists, they may receive a common substantive name. A genus is not necessarily the lowest definable group of species, for it may often be divided into several subgenera. In proportion as its definition is exact, it is natural genus; if its definition can not be made clear, it is more or less an artificial genus.  Note: Thus in the animal kingdom the lion, leopard, tiger, cat, and panther are species of the Cat kind or genus, while in the vegetable kingdom all the species of oak form a single genus. Some genera are represented by a multitude of species, as Solanum (Nightshade) and Carex (Sedge), others by few, and some by only one known species. Subaltern genus (Logic), a genus which may be a species of a higher genus, as the genus denoted by quadruped, which is also a species of mammal.  -- Summum genus Etym: [L.] (Logic), the highest genus; a genus which can not be classed as a species, as being . 

GENYS:  See Conys.  GEOCENTRIC; GEOCENTRICAL Ge`o*cen"tric, Ge`o*cen"tric*al, a. Etym: [Gr. géocentrique.] (Astron.) (a) Having reference to the earth as center; in relation to or seen from the earth, -- usually opposed to heliocentric, as seen from the sun; as, the geocentric longitude or latitude of a planet. (b) Having reference to the center of the earth. Geocentric latitude (of place) the angle included between the radius of the earth through the place and the plane of the equator, in distinction from geographic latitude. It is a little less than the geographic latitude. 

GEOCENTRICALLY:  In a geocentric manner. 

GEOCHEMISTRY:  The study of the chemical composition of, and of actual or possible chemical changes in, the crust of the earth. -- Ge`o*chem"ic*al (#), a. --Ge`o*chem"ist (#), n. 

GEOCRONITE:  A lead-gray or grayish blue mineral with a metallic luster, consisting of sulphur, antimony, and lead, with a small proportion of arsenic. 

GEODEPHAGOUS:  Living in the earth; -- applied to the ground beetles.  GEODESIC; GEODESICAL Ge`o*des"ic, Ge`o*des"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géodésique.] (Math.)  Of or pertaining to geodetic. 

GEODESIC:  A geodetic line or curve. 

GEODESIST:  One versed in geodesy. 

GEODESY:  That branch of applied mathematics which determines, by means of observations and measurements, the figures and areas of large portions of the earth's surface, or the general figure and dimenshions of the earth; or that branch of surveying in which the curvature of the earth is taken into account, as in the surveys of States, or of long lines of coast.  GEODETIC; GEODETICAL Ge`o*det"ic, Ge`o*det"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to gebdesy; obtained or determined by the operations of geodesy; engaged in geodesy; geodesic; as, geodetic surveying; geodetic observers. Geodetic line or curve, the shortest line that can be drawn between two points on the elipsoidal surface of the earth; a curve drawn on any given surface so that the osculating plane of the curve at every point shall contain the normal to the surface; the minimum line that can be drawn on any surface between any two points. 

GEODETICALLY:  In a geodetic manner; according to geodesy. 

GEODETICS:  Same as Geodesy. 

GEODIFEROUS:  Producing geodes; containing geodes. 

GEODUCK:  A gigantic clam (Glycimeris generosa) of the Pacific coast of North America, highly valued as an article of food. 

GEOGNOSIS:  Knowledge of the earth. [R.] G. Eliot. 

GEOGNOST:  One versed in geognosy; a geologist. [R.]  GEOGNOSTIC; GEOGNOSTICAL Ge`og*nos"tic, Ge`og*nos"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géognostique.]  Of or pertaining to geognosy, or to a knowledge of the structure of the earth; geological. [R.] 

GEOGNOSY:  That part of geology which treats of the materials of the earth's structure, and its general exterior and interior constitution.  GEOGONIC; GEOGONICAL Ge`o*gon"ic, Ge`o*gon"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géogonique.]  Of or pertaining to geogony, or to the formation of the earth. 

GEOGONY:  The branch of science which treats of the formation of the earth. 

GEOGRAPHER:  One versed in geography.  GEOGRAPHIC; GEOGRAPHICAL Ge`o*graph"ic, Ge`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. geographicus, Gr. géographique.]  Of or pertaining to geography. Geographical distribution. See under Distribution.  -- Geographic latitude (of a place), the angle included between a line perpendicular or normal to the level surface of water at rest at the place, and the plane of the equator; differing slightly from the geocentric latitude by reason of the difference between the earth's figure and a true sphere.  -- Geographical mile. See under Mile.  -- Geographical variation, any variation of a species which is dependent on climate or other geographical conditions. 

GEOGRAPHICALLY:  In a geographical manner or method; according to geography. 

GEOLATRY:  The worship of the earth. G. W. Cox. The Geological Series.  Note: The science of geology, as treating of the history of the globe, involves a description of the different strata which compose its crust, their order of succession, characteristic forms of animal and vegetable life, etc. The principal subdivisions of geological time, and the most important strata, with their relative positions, are indicated in the following diagram.  GEOLOGER; GEOLOGIAN Ge*ol"o*ger, Ge`o*lo"gi*an, n.  A geologist.  GEOLOGIC; GEOLOGICAL Ge`o*log"ic, Ge`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géologique.]  Of or pertaining to geology, or the science of the earth. 

GEOLOGICALLY:  In a geological manner. 

GEOLOGIST:  One versed in the science of geology. 

GEOLOGIZE:  To study geology or make geological investigations in the field; to discourse as a geologist. During midsummer geologized a little in Shropshire. Darwin. 

GEOMALISM:  The tendency of an organism to respond, during its growth, to the force of gravitation. 

GEOMANCER:  One who practices, or is versed in, geomancy. 

GEOMANCY:  A kind of divination by means of figures or lines, formed by little dots or points, originally on the earth, and latterly on paper.  GEOMANTIC; GEOMANTICAL Ge`o*man"tic, Ge`o*man"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. géomantique.]  Pertaining or belonging to geomancy. 

GEOMETER:  Any species of geometrid moth; a geometrid. 

GEOMETRAL:  Pertaining to geometry. [Obs.]  GEOMETRIC; GEOMETRICAL Ge`o*met"ric, Ge`o*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [L. geometricus; Gr. géométrique.]  Pertaining to, or according to the rules or principles of, geometry; determined by geometry; as, a geometrical solution of a problem.  Note: Geometric is often used, as opposed to algebraic, to include processes or solutions in which the propositions or principles of geometry are made use of rather than those of algebra.  Note: Geometrical is often used in a limited or strictly technical sense, as opposed to mechanical; thus, a construction or solution is geometrical which can be made by ruler and compasses, i. e., by means of right lines and circles. Every construction or solution which requires any other curve, or such motion of a line or circle as would generate any other curve, is not geometrical, but mechanical. By another distinction, a geometrical solution is one obtained by the rules of geometry, or processes of analysis, and hence is exact; while a mechanical solution is one obtained by trial, by actual measurements, with instruments, etc., and is only approximate and empirical. Geometrical curve. Same as Algebraic curve; -- so called because their different points may be constructed by the operations of elementary geometry.  -- Geometric lathe, an instrument for engraving bank notes, etc., with complicated patterns of interlacing lines; -- called also cycloidal engine.  -- Geometrical pace, a measure of five feet.  -- Geometric pen, an instrument for drawing geometric curves, in which the movements of a pen or pencil attached to a revolving arm of ajustable length may be indefinitely varied by changing the toothed wheels which give motion to the arm.  -- Geometrical plane (Persp.), the same as Ground plane .  -- Geometrical progression, proportion, ratio. See under Progression, Proportion and Ratio.  -- Geometrical radius, in gearing, the radius of the pitch circle of a cogwheel. Knight.  -- Geometric spider (Zoöl.), one of many species of spiders, which spin a geometrical web. They mostly belong to Epeira and allied genera, as the garden spider. See Garden spider.  -- Geometric square, a portable instrument in the form of a square frame for ascertaining distances and heights by measuring angles.  -- Geometrical staircase, one in which the stairs are supported by the wall at one end only.  -- Geometrical tracery, in architecture and decoration, tracery arranged in geometrical figures. 

GEOMETRICALLY:  According to the rules or laws of geometry. 

GEOMETRICIAN:  One skilled in geometry; a geometer; a mathematician. 

GEOMETRID:  Pertaining or belonging to the Geometridæ. 

GEOMETRID:  One of numerous genera and species of moths, of the family Geometridæ; -- so called because their larvæ (called loopers, measuring worms, spanworms, and inchworms) creep in a looping manner, as if measuring. Many of the species are injurious to agriculture, as the cankerworms. 

GEOMETRIZE:  To investigate or apprehend geometrical quantities or laws; to make geometrical constructions; to proceed in accordance with the principles of geometry. Nature geometrizeth, and observeth order in all things. Sir T. Browne. 

GEOPHAGISM:  The act or habit of eating earth. See Dirt eating, under Dirt. Dunglison. 

GEOPHAGIST:  One who eats earth, as dirt, clay, chalk, etc. 

GEOPHAGOUS:  Earth-eating. 

GEOPHILA:  The division of Mollusca which includes the land snails and slugs.  GEOPONIC; GEOPONICAL Ge`o*pon"ic, Ge`o*pon"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. géoponique.]  Pertaining to tillage of the earth, or agriculture. 

GEOPONICS:  The art or science of cultivating the earth; agriculture. Evelin. 

GEORAMA:  A hollow globe on the inner surface of which a map of the world is depicted, to be examined by one standing inside. 

GEORDIE:  A name given by miners to George Stephenson's safety lamp. Raymond. 

GEORGE:  A gold noble of the time of Henry VIII. See Noble, n. 

GEORGIAN:  A native of, or dweller in, Georgia.  GEORGIAN ARCHITECTURE Georgian architecture.  British or British colonial architecture of the period of the four Georges, especially that of the period before 1800. 

GEORGIC:  A rural poem; a poetical composition on husbandry, containing rules for cultivating lands, etc.; as, the Georgics of Virgil.  GEORGIC; GEORGICAL Geor"gic, Geor"gic*al, a. Etym: [L. georgicus, Gr. géorgique. See George.]  Relating to agriculture and rural affairs.  GEORGIUM SIDUS Geor"gi*um Si`dus. Etym: [NL., the star of George (III. of England).] (Astron.)  The planet Uranus, so named by its discoverer, Sir W. Herschel. 

GEOSCOPY:  Knowledge of the earth, ground, or soil, obtained by inspection. Chambers. 

GEOSELENIC:  Pertaining to the earth and moon; belonging to the joint action or mutual relations of the earth and moon; as, geoselenic phenomena. 

GEOSTATIC:  Relating to the pressure exerted by earth or similar substance. Geostatic arch, an arch having a form adapted to sustain pressure similar to that exerted by earth. Rankine. 

GEOSYNCLINAL:  the downward bend or subsidence of the earth's crust, which allows of the gradual accumulation of sediment, and hence forms the first step in the making of a mountain range; -- opposed to geanticlinal. 

GEOTHERMOMETER:  A thermometer specially constructed for measuring temperetures at a depth below the surface of the ground. 

GEOTIC:  Belonging to earth; terrestrial. [Obs.] Bailey. 

GEOTROPIC:  Relating to, or showing, geotropism. 

GEOTROPISM:  A disposition to turn or incline towards the earth; the influence of gravity in determining the direction of growth of an organ.  Note: In plants, organs which grow towards the center of the earth are said to be positively geotropic, and those growing in the opposite direction negatively geotropic. In animals, geotropism is supposed by some to have an influence either direct or indirect on the plane of division of the ovum. 

GEPHYREA:  An order of marine Annelida, in which the body is imperfectly, or not at all, annulated externally, and is mostly without setæ. 

GEPHYREAN:  Belonging to the Gephyrea.  -- n. One of the Gerphyrea. 

GEPHYREOID:  Gephyrean. 

GEPOUND:  See Gipoun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GERAH:  A small coin and weight; 1-20th of a shekel.  Note: The silver gerah is supposed to have been worth about three cents; the gold about fifty-four cents; the weight equivalent to about thirteen grains. 

GERANIACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of pants (Geraniaceæ) which includes the genera Geranium, Pelargonium, and many others.  GERANIINE; GERANINE Ge*ra"ni*ine, Ger"a*nine, n. Etym: [See Geranium.]  1. (Med.)  A valuable astringet obtained from the root of the Geranium maculatum or crane's-bill.  2. (Chem.)  A liquid terpene, obtained from the crane's-bill (Geranium maculatum), and having a peculiar mulberry odor. [Written also geranium.] 

GERANIUM:  A genus of plants having a beaklike tours or receptacle, around which the seed capsules are arranged, and membranous projections, or stipules, at the joints. Most of the species have showy flowers and a pungent odor. Called sometimes crane's-bill.  2. (Floriculture)  A cultivated pelargonium.  Note: Many plants referred to the genus Geranium by the earlier botanists are now separated from it under the name of Pelargonium, which includes all the commonly cultivated "geraniums", mostly natives of South Africa. 

GERANT:  The manager or acting partner of a company, joint-stock association, etc. 

GERBE:  A kind of ornamental firework. Farrow.  GERBIL; GERBILLE Ger"bil, Ger`bille", n. Etym: [F. gerbille. Cf. Jerboa.] (Zoöl.)  One of several species of small, jumping, murine rodents, of the genus Gerbillus. In their leaping powers they resemble the jerboa. They inhabit Africa, India, and Southern Europe. 

GERBOA:  The jerboa. 

GERE:  Gear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GERENT:  Bearing; carrying. [Obs.] Bailey. 

GERFALCON:  See Gyrfalcon. 

GERFUL:  Changeable; capricious. [Obs.] Chaucer.  GERLAND; GERLOND Ger"land, Ger"lond, n.  A garland. [Obs.] 

GERLIND:  A salmon returning from the sea the second time. [Prov. Eng.] 

GERM:  That which is to develop a new individual; as, the germ of a fetus, of a plant or flower, and the like; the earliest form under which an organism appears. In the entire process in which a new being originates . . . two distinct classes of action participate; namely, the act of generation by which the germ is produced; and the act of development, by which that germ is evolved into the complete organism. Carpenter.  2. That from which anything springs; origin; first principle; as, the germ of civil liberty. Disease germ (Biol.), a name applied to certain tiny bacterial organisms or their spores, such as Anthrax bacillus and the Micrococcus of fowl cholera, which have been demonstrated to be the cause of certain diseases. See Germ theory (bellow).  -- Germ cell (Biol.), the germ, egg, spore, or cell from which the plant or animal arises. At one time a part of the body of the parent, it finally becomes detached,and by a process of multiplication and growth gives rise to a mass of cells, which ultimately form a new individual like the parent. See Ovum.  -- Germ gland. (Anat.) See Gonad.  -- Germ stock (Zoöl.), a special process on which buds are developed in certain animals. See Doliolum.  -- Germ theory (Biol.), the theory that living organisms can be produced only by the evolution or development of living germs or seeds. See Biogenesis, and Abiogenesis. As applied to the origin of disease, the theory claims that the zymotic diseases are due to the rapid development and multiplication of various bacteria, the germs or spores of which are either contained in the organism itself, or transferred through the air or water. See Fermentation theory. 

GERM:  To germinate. [R.] J. Morley. 

GERMAIN:  See Germane. 

GERMAN:  Nearly related; closely akin. Wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to the lion. Shak. Brother german. See Brother german.  -- Cousins german. See the Note under Cousin. 

GERMAN:  Of or pertaining to Germany. German Baptists. See Dunker.  -- German bit, a wood-boring tool, having a long elliptical pod and a scew point.  -- German carp (Zoöl.), the crucian carp.  -- German millet (Bot.), a kind of millet (Setaria Italica, var.), whose seed is sometimes used for food.  -- German paste, a prepared food for caged birds.  -- German process (Metal.), the process of reducing copper ore in a blast furnace, after roasting, if necessary. Raymond.  -- German sarsaparilla, a substitute for sarsaparilla extract.  -- German sausage, a polony, or gut stuffed with meat partly cooked.  -- German silver (Chem.), a silver-white alloy, hard and tough, but malleable and ductile, and quite permanent in the air. It contains nickel, copper, and zinc in varying proportions, and was originally made from old copper slag at Henneberg. A small amount of iron is sometimes added to make it whiter and harder. It is essentially identical with the Chinese alloy packfong. It was formerly much used for tableware, knife handles, frames, cases, bearings of machinery, etc., but is now largely superseded by other white alloys.  -- German steel (Metal.), a metal made from bog iron ore in a forge, with charcoal for fuel.  -- German text (Typog.), a character resembling modern German type, used in English printing for ornamental headings, etc., as in the words,  Note: This line is German Text.  -- German tinder. See Amadou. 

GERMANDER:  A plant of the genus Teucrium (esp. Teucrium Chamædrys or wall germander), mintlike herbs and low shrubs. American germander, Teucrium Canadense.  -- Germander chickweed, Veronica agrestis.  -- Water germander, Teucrium Scordium.  -- Wood germander, Teucrium Scorodonia. 

GERMANE:  Literally, near akin; hence, closely allied; appropriate or fitting; relevant. The phrase would be more germane to the matter. Shak. [An amendment] must be germane. Barclay (Digest). 

GERMANIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, germanium. 

GERMANIUM:  A rare element, recently discovered (1885), in a silver ore (argyrodite) at Freiberg. It is a brittle, silver-white metal, chemically intermediate between the metals and nonmetals, resembles tin, and is in general identical with the predicted ekasilicon. Symbol Ge. Atomic weight 72.3. 

GERMANIZATION:  The act of Germanizing. M. Arnold. 

GERMANIZE:  To make German, or like what is distinctively German; as, to Germanize a province, a language, a society. 

GERMANIZE:  To reason or write after the manner of the Germans. 

GERMARIUM:  An organ in which the ova are developed in certain Turbellaria.  GERM CELL Germ cell. (Biol.)  A cell, of either sex, directly concerned in the production of a new organism. 

GERMEN:  See Germ. 

GERMICIDAL:  Germicide. 

GERMICIDE:  Destructive to germs; -- applied to any agent which has a destructive action upon living germs, particularly bacteria, or bacterial germs, which are considered the cause of many infectious diseases.  -- n.  A germicide agent. 

GERMINAL:  Pertaining or belonging to a germ; as, the germinal vesicle. Germinal layers (Biol.), the two layers of cells, the ectoblast and entoblast, which form respectively the outer covering and inner wall of the gastrula. A third layer of cells, the mesoblast, which is formed later and lies between these two, is sometimes included.  -- Germinal membrane. (Biol.) Same as Blastoderm.  -- Germinal spot (Biol.), the nucleolus of the ovum.  -- Germinal vesicle, (Biol.) , the nucleus of the ovum of animals. 

GERMINAL:  The seventh month of the French republican calendar [1792 -- 1806]. It began March 21 and ended April 19. See VendÉmiaire. 

GERMINANT:  Sprouting; sending forth germs or buds. 

GERMINATE:  To sprout; to bud; to shoot; to begin to vegetate, as a plant or its seed; to begin to develop, as a germ. Bacon. 

GERMINATE:  To cause to sprout. Price (1610). 

GERMINATION:  The process of germinating; the beginning of vegetation or growth in a seed or plant; the first development of germs, either animal or vegetable. Germination apparatus, an apparatus for malting grain. 

GERMINATIVE:  Pertaining to germination; having power to bud or develop. Germinative spot, Germinative vesicle. (Biol.) Same as Germinal spot, Germinal vesicle, under Germinal. 

GERMIPARITY:  Reproduction by means of germs. 

GERMLESS:  Without germs. 

GERMOGEN:  See Plasmogen, and Idioplasm.  GERM THEORY Germ theory.  1. (Biol.)  The theory that living organisms can be produced only by the development of living germs. Cf. Biogenesis, Abiogenesis.  2.  (Med.) The theory which attributes contagious and infectious diseases, suppurative lesions, etc., to the agency of germs. The science of bacteriology was developed after this theory had been established. 

GERMULE:  A small germ. 

GERN:  To grin or yawn. [Obs.] "[/He] gaped like a gulf when he did gern." Spenser. 

GERNER:  A garner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GEROCOMIA:  See Gerocomy. 

GEROCOMICAL:  Pertaining to gerocomy. Dr. John Smith. 

GEROCOMY:  That part of medicine which treats of regimen for old people. 

GERONTES:  Magistrates in Sparta, who with the ephori and kings, constituted the supreme civil authority. 

GERONTOCRACY:  Government by old men. [R.] Gladstone. 

GEROPIGIA:  A mixture composed of unfermented grape juice, brandy, sugar, etc., for adulteration of wines. [Written also jerupigia.]  -GEROUS -ger*ous. Etym: [L. -ger, fr. gerere to bear, carry. See Jest.]  A suffix signifying bearing, producing; as, calcigerous; dentigerous. 

GERRYMANDER:  To divide (a State) into districts for the choice of representatives, in an unnatural and unfair way, with a view to give a political party an advantage over its opponent. [Political Cant, U. S.]  Note: This was done in Massachusetts at a time when Elbridge Gerry was governor, and was attributed to his influence, hence the name; though it is now known that he was opposed to the measure. Bartlett. 

GERUND:  A verbal noun ending in -e, preceded by to and usually denoting purpose or end; -- called also the dative infinitive; as, "Ic hæbbe mete tô etanne" (I have meat to eat.) In Modern English the name has been applied to verbal or participal nouns in -ing denoting a transitive action; e. g., by throwing a stone. 

GERUNDIAL:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a gerund; as, a gerundial use. 

GERUNDIVE:  Pertaining to, or partaking of, the nature of the gerund; gerundial.  -- n. (Lat. Gram.)  The future passive participle; as, amandus, i. e., to be loved. 

GERUNDIVELY:  In the manner of a gerund; as, or in place of, a gerund. 

GERY:  Changeable; fickle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GESLING:  A gosling. [Prov. Eng.] 

GESSE:  To guess. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GESSO:  A variety of gesso which when dried becomes hard and durable, often used in making bas-relief casts, which are colored and mounted in elaborate frames. 

GEST:  A guest. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GESTANT:  Bearing within; laden; burdened; pregnant. [R.] "Clouds gestant with heat." Mrs. Browning. 

GESTE:  To tell stories or gests. [Obs.] 

GESTICULATE:  To make gestures or motions, as in speaking; to use postures. Sir T. Herbert. 

GESTICULATE:  To represent by gesture; to act. [R.] B. Jonson. 

GESTICULATOR:  One who gesticulates. 

GESTICULATORY:  Representing by, or belonging to, gestures. T. Warton. 

GESTOUR:  A reciter of gests or legendary tales; a story-teller. [Obs.] Minstrels and gestours for to tell tales. Chaucer. 

GESTURAL:  Relating to gesture. 

GESTURE:  To accompany or illustrate with gesture or action; to gesticulate. It is not orderly read, nor gestured as beseemeth. Hooker. 

GESTURE:  To make gestures; to gesticulate. The players . . . gestured not undecently withal. Holland. 

GESTURELESS:  Free from gestures. 

GESTUREMENT:  Act of making gestures; gesturing. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

GET:  Jet, the mineral. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GET:  Offspring; progeny; as, the get of a stallion. 

GETEN:  p. p. of Get. Chaucer. 

GETH:  the original third pers. sing. pres. of Go. [Obs.] Chaucer.  GET-PENNY Get"-pen`ny, n.  Something which gets or gains money; a successful affair. [Colloq.] Chapman. 

GETTABLE:  That may be obtained. [R.] 

GETTER:  One who gets, gains, obtains, acquires, begets, or procreates. 

GETTERUP:  One who contrives, makes, or arranges for, anything, as a book, a machine, etc. [Colloq.] A diligent getter-up of miscellaneous works. W. Irving. 

GETTING:  General composition or structure; manner in which the parts of a thing are combined; make-up; style of dress, etc. [Colloq.] H. Kingsley. 

GEUSDISM:  The Marxian socialism and programme of reform through revolution as advocated by the French political leader Jules Basile Guesde (pron. ged) (1845- ). -- Guesd"ist (#), n. & a. 

GEWGAW:  A showy trifle; a toy; a splendid plaything; a pretty but worthless bauble. A heavy gewgaw called a crown. Dryden. 

GEWGAW:  Showy; unreal; pretentious. Seeing his gewgaw castle shine. Tennyson. 

GEYSER:  A boiling spring which throws forth at frequent intervals jets of water, mud, etc., driven up by the expansive power of steam.  Note: Geysers were first known in Iceland, and later in New Zealand. In the Yellowstone region in the United States they are numerous, and some of them very powerful, throwing jets of boiling water and steam to a height of 200 feet. They are grouped in several areas called geyser basins. The mineral matter, or geyserite, with which geyser water is charged, forms geyser cones about the orifice, often of great size and beauty. 

GEYSERITE:  A loose hydrated form of silica, a variety of opal, deposited in concretionary cauliflowerlike masses, around some hot springs and geysers. 

GHARRY:  Any wheeled cart or carriage. [India] 

GHAST:  To strike aghast; to affright. [Obs.] Ghasted by the noise I made. Full suddenly he fled. Shak. 

GHASTFUL:  Fit to make one aghast; dismal. [Obs.] -- Ghast"ful*ly, adv. 

GHASTLINESS:  The state of being ghastly; a deathlike look. 

GHASTLY:  In a ghastly manner; hideously. Staring full ghastly like a strangled man. Shak. 

GHASTNESS:  Ghastliness. [Obs.] Shak.  GHAT; GHAUT Ghat Ghaut, n. Etym: [Hind. ghat.]  1. A pass through a mountain. [India] J. D. Hooker.  2. A range of mountains. Balfour (Cyc. of Ind. ).  3. Stairs descending to a river; a landing place; a wharf. [India] Malcom. 

GHAWAZI:  Egyptian dancing girls, of a lower sort than the almeh.  GHAZAL; GHAZEL Ghaz"al, Ghaz"el, n. [Ar. ghazal.]  A kind of Oriental lyric, and usually erotic, poetry, written in recurring rhymes. 

GHAZI:  Among Mohammedans, a warrior champion or veteran, esp. in the destruction of infidels.  GHEBER; GHEBRE Ghe"ber Ghe"bre, n. Etym: [Pers. ghebr: cf. F. Guèbre. Cf. Giaour.]  A worshiper of fire; a Zoroastrian; a Parsee. 

GHEE:  Butter clarified by boiling, and thus converted into a kind of oil. [India] Malcom. 

GHERKIN:  A kind of small, prickly cucumber, much used for pickles.  2. (Zoöl.)  See Sea gherkin. 

GHESS:  See Guess. [Obs.] 

GHETTO:  The Jews'quarter in an Italian town or city. I went to the Ghetto, where the Jews dwell. Evelyn. 

GHIBELLINE:  One of a faction in Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries, which favored the German emperors, and opposed the Guelfs, or adherents of the poses. Brande & C. 

GHOLE:  See Ghoul. 

GHOST:  To die; to expire. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

GHOST:  To appear to or haunt in the form of an apparition. [Obs.] Shak.  GHOST DANCE Ghost dance.  A religious dance of the North American Indians, participated in by both sexes, and looked upon as a rite of invocation the purpose of which is, through trance and vision, to bring the dancer into communion with the unseen world and the spirits of departed friends. The dance is the chief rite of the Ghost-dance, or Messiah, religion, which originated about 1890 in the doctrines of the Piute Wovoka, the Indian Messiah, who taught that the time was drawing near when the whole Indian race, the dead with the living, should be reunited to live a life of millennial happiness upon a regenerated earth. The religion inculcates peace, righteousness, and work, and holds that in good time, without warlike intervention, the oppressive white rule will be removed by the higher powers. The religion spread through a majority of the western tribes of the United States, only in the case of the Sioux, owing to local causes, leading to an outbreak. 

GHOSTFISH:  A pale ubspotted variety of the wrymouth. 

GHOSTLESS:  Without life or spirit. [R.] 

GHOSTLIKE:  Like a ghost; ghastly. 

GHOSTLINESS:  The quality of being ghostly. 

GHOSTLY:  Spiritually; mystically. Chaucer. 

GHOSTOLOGY:  Ghost lore. [R.] It seemed even more unaccountable than if it had been a thing of ghostology and witchcraft. Hawthorne. 

GHOUL:  An imaginary evil being among Eastern nations, which was supposed to feed upon human bodies. [Written also ghole .] Moore. 

GHOULISH:  Characteristic of a ghoul; vampirelike; hyenalike. 

GHYLL:  A ravine. See Gill a woody glen. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Wordsworth. 

GIALLOLINO:  A term variously employed by early writers on art, though commonly designating the yellow oxide of lead, or massicot. Fairholt. 

GIAMBEUX:  Greaves; armor for the legs. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GIANT:  Like a giant; extraordinary in size, strength, or power; as, giant brothers; a giant son. Giant cell. (Anat.) See Myeloplax.  -- Giant clam (Zoöl.), a bivalve shell of the genus Tridacna, esp. T. gigas, which sometimes weighs 500 pounds. The shells are sometimes used in churches to contain holy water.  -- Giant heron (Zoöl.), a very large African heron (Ardeomega goliath). It is the largest heron known.  -- Giant kettle, a pothole of very large dimensions, as found in Norway in connection with glaciers. See Pothole.  -- Giant powder. See Nitroglycerin.  -- Giant puffball (Bot.), a fungus (Lycoperdon giganteum), edible when young, and when dried used for stanching wounds.  -- Giant salamander (Zoöl.), a very large aquatic salamander (Megalobatrachus maximus), found in Japan. It is the largest of living Amphibia, becoming a yard long.  -- Giant squid (Zoöl.), one of several species of very large squids, belonging to Architeuthis and allied genera. Some are over forty feet long. 

GIANTESS:  A woman of extraordinary size. 

GIANTIZE:  To play the giant. [R.] Sherwood. 

GIANTLY:  Appropriate to a giant. [Obs.] Usher. 

GIANTRY:  The race of giants. [R.] Cotgrave. 

GIANTSHIP:  The state, personality, or character, of a giant; -- a compellation for a giant. His giantship is gone somewhat crestfallen. Milton. 

GIAOUR:  An infidel; -- a term applied by Turks to disbelievers in the Mohammedan religion, especially Christrians. Byron. 

GIB:  A male cat; a tomcat. [Obs.] 

GIB:  To act like a cat. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

GIB:  A piece or slip of metal or wood, notched or otherwise, in a machine or structure, to hold other parts in place or bind them together, or to afford a bearing surface; -- usually held or adjusted by means of a wedge, key, or screw. Gib and key, or Gib and cotter (Steam Engine), the fixed wedge or gib, and the driving wedge,key, or cotter, used for tightening the strap which holds the brasses at the end of a connecting rod. 

GIB:  To secure or fasten with a gib, or gibs; to provide with a gib, or gibs. Gibbed lathe, an engine lathe in which the tool carriage is held down to the bed by a gib instead of by a weight. 

GIB:  To balk. See Jib, v. i. Youatt. 

GIBARO:  The offspring of a Spaniard and an Indian; a Spanish-Indian mestizo. [Sp. Amer.] 

GIBBARTAS:  One of several finback whales of the North Atlantic; -- called also Jupiter whale. [Written also jubartas, gubertas, dubertus.] 

GIBBER:  A balky horse. Youatt. 

GIBBER:  To speak rapidly and inarticulately. Shak. 

GIBBERISH:  Rapid and inarticulate talk; unintelligible language; unmeaning words; jargon. He, like a gypsy, oftentimes would go; All kinds of gibberish he had learnt to known. Drayton. Such gibberish as children may be heard amusing themselves with. Hawthorne. 

GIBBERISH:  Unmeaning; as, gibberish language. 

GIBBIER:  Wild fowl; game. [Obs.] Addison. 

GIBBON:  Any arboreal ape of the genus Hylobates, of which many species and varieties inhabit the East Indies and Southern Asia. They are tailless and without cheek pouches, and have very long arms, adapted for climbing.  Note: The white-handed gibbon (Hylobates lar), the crowned (H. pilatus), the wou-wou or singing gibbon (H. agilis), the siamang, and the hoolock. are the most common species.  GIB BOOM Gib" boom`.  See Jib boom. 

GIBBOSE:  Humped; protuberant; -- said of a surface which presents one or more large elevations. Brande & C. 

GIBBOSTITY:  The state of being gibbous or gibbose; gibbousness. 

GIBBSITE:  A hydrate of alumina.  GIB-CAT Gib"-cat`, n.  A male cat, esp. an old one. See lst Gib. n. [Obs.] Shak. 

GIBE:  To cast reproaches and sneering expressions; to rail; to utter taunting, sarcastic words; to flout; to fleer; to scoff. Fleer and gibe, and laugh and flout. Swift. 

GIBE:  To reproach with contemptuous words; to deride; to scoff at; to mock. Draw the beasts as I describe them, From their features, while I gibe them. Swift. 

GIBE:  An expression of sarcastic scorn; a sarcastic jest; a scoff; a taunt; a sneer. Mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns. Shak. With solemn gibe did Eustace banter me. Tennyson. 

GIBEL:  A kind of carp (Cyprinus gibelio); -- called also Prussian carp. 

GIBER:  One who utters gibes. B. Jonson. 

GIBFISH:  The male of the salmon. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

GIBINGLY:  In a gibing manner; scornfully. 

GIBLET:  Made of giblets; as, a giblet pie. 

GIBLETS:  The inmeats, or edible viscera (heart, gizzard, liver, etc.), of poultry. 

GID:  A disease of sheep, characterized by vertigo; the staggers. It is caused by the presence of the CC. 

GIDDILY:  In a giddy manner. 

GIDDINESS:  The quality or state of being giddy. 

GIDDY:  To reel; to whirl. Chapman. 

GIDDY:  To make dizzy or unsteady. [Obs.]  GIDDY-HEAD Gid"dy-head`, n.  A person without thought fulness, prudence, or judgment. [Colloq.] Burton.  GIDDY-HEADED Gid"dy-head`ed, a.  Thoughtless; unsteady.  GIDDY-PACED Gid"dy-paced`, a.  Moving irregularly; flighty; fickle. [R.] Shak. 

GIE:  To guide. See Gye . [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GIE:  To give. [Scot.] Burns.  GIER-EAGLE Gier"-ea`gle, n. Etym: [Cf. D. gier vulture, G. gier, and E. gyrfalcon.] (Zoöl.)  A bird referred to in the Bible (Lev. xi. 18and Deut. xiv. 17) as unclean, probably the Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus).  GIER-FALCON Gier"-fal`con, n. Etym: [Cf. Gier-eagle, Gyrfalcon.] (Zoöl.)  The gyrfalcon. 

GIESECKITE:  A mineral occurring in greenish gray six-sided prisms, having a greasy luster. It is probably a pseudomorph after elæolite. 

GIF:  If. [Obs.]  Note: Gif is the old form of if, and frequently occurs in the earlier English writers. See If.  GIFFARD INJECTOR Gif"fard in*ject"or. (Mach.)  See under Injector. 

GIFFGAFF:  Mutial accommodation; mutual giving. [Scot.] 

GIFFY:  See Jiffy. 

GIFT:  A voluntary transfer of real or personal property, without any consideration. It can be perfected only by deed, or in case of personal property, by an actual delivery of possession. Bouvier. Burrill. Gift rope (Naut), a rope extended to a boat for towing it; a guest rope.  Syn.  -- Present; donation; grant; largess; benefaction; boon; bounty; gratuity; endowment; talent; faculty.  -- Gift, Present, Donation. These words, as here compared, denote something gratuitously imparted to another out of one's property. A gift is something given whether by a superior or an inferior, and is usually designed for the relief or benefit of him who receives it. A present is ordinarly from an equal or inferior, and is always intended as a compliment or expression of kindness. Donation is a word of more dignity, denoting, properly, a gift of considerable value, and ordinarly a gift made either to some public institution, or to an individual on account of his services to the public; as, a donation to a hospital, a charitable society, or a minister. 

GIFT:  To endow with some power or faculty. He was gifted . . . with philosophical sagacity. I. Taylor. 

GIFTEDNESS:  The state of being gifted. Echard. 

GIG:  A fiddle. [Obs.] 

GIG:  To engender. [Obs.] Dryden. 

GIG:  A kind of spear or harpoon. See Fishgig. 

GIG:  To fish with a gig. 

GIG:  A playful or wanton girl; a giglot. 

GIG:  A long, light rowboat, generally clinkerbuilt, and designed to be fast; a boat appropriated to the use of the commanding officer; as, the captain's gig.  4. (Mach.)  A rotatory cylinder, covered with wire teeth or teasels, for teaseling woolen cloth. Gig machine, Gigging machine, Gig mill, or Napping machine. See Gig, 4.  -- Gig saw. See Jig saw. 

GIGANTEAN:  Like a giant; mighty; gigantic. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

GIGANTESQUE:  Befitting a giant; bombastic; magniloquent. The sort of mock-heroic gigantesque With which we bantered little Lilia first. Tennyson. 

GIGANTICAL:  Bulky, big. [Obs.] Burton.  -- Gi*gan"tic*al*ly, adv. 

GIGANTICIDE:  The act of killing, or one who kills, a giant. Hallam. 

GIGANTINE:  Gigantic. [Obs.] Bullokar. 

GIGANTOLOGY:  An account or description of giants. 

GIGANTOMACHY:  A war of giants; especially, the fabulous war of the giants against heaven.  GIGE; GUIGE Gige, Guige, n. Etym: [OF. guide, guiche.] (Anc. Armor)  The leather strap by which the shield of a knight was slung across the shoulder, or across the neck and shoulder. Meyrick (Ancient Armor). 

GIGERIUM:  The muscular stomach, or gizzard, of birds. 

GIGGET:  Same as Gigot. Cut the slaves to giggets. Beau. & Fl. 

GIGGLE:  To laugh with short catches of the breath or voice; to laugh in a light, affected, or silly manner; to titter with childish levity. Giggling and laughing with all their might At the piteous hap of the fairy wight. J. R. Drake. 

GIGGLE:  A kind of laugh, with short catches of the voice or breath; a light, silly laugh. 

GIGGLER:  One who giggles or titters. 

GIGGLY:  Prone to giggling. Carlyle. 

GIGGOT:  See Gigot. [Obs.] Chapman. 

GIGGYNG:  The act of fastending the gige or leather strap to the shield. [Obs.] "Gigging of shields." Chaucer.  GIGLOT; GIGLET Gig"lot, Gig"let, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. gikkr a pert, rude person, Dan. giek a fool, silly man, AS. gagol, gægl, lascivious, wanton, MHG. gogel wanton, giege fool, and E. gig a wanton person.]  A wanton; a lascivious or light, giddy girl. [Obs.] The giglet is willful, and is running upon her fate. Sir W. Scott. 

GIGLOT:  Giddi; light; inconstant; wanton. [Obs.] "O giglot fortune!" Shak.  GIGOT; GIGGOT Gig"ot, Gig"got (, n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. gigue fiddle; -- on account of the resemblance in shape. See Jig, n.]  1. A leg of mutton.  2. A small piece of flesh; a slice. [Obs.] The rest in giggots cut, they spit. Chapman. 

GIGUE:  A piece of lively dance music, in two strains which are repeated; also, the dance.  GILA MONSTER Gi"la mon"ster. (Zoöl.)  A large tuberculated lizard (Heloderma suspectum) native of the dry plains of Arizona, New Mexico, etc. It is the only lizard known to have venomous teeth. 

GILDALE:  A drinking bout in which every one pays an equal share. [Obs.] 

GILDEN:  Gilded. Holland. 

GILDER:  One who gilds; one whose occupation is to overlay with gold. 

GILDER:  A Dutch coin. See Guilder. 

GILE:  Guile. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GILL:  An organ for aquatic respiration; a branchia. Fishes perform respiration under water by the gills. Ray.  Note: Gills are usually lamellar or filamentous appendages, through which the blood circulates, and in which it is exposed to the action of the air contained in the water. In vertebrates they are appendages of the visceral arches on either side of the neck. In invertebrates they occupy various situations.  2. pl. (Bot.)  The radiating, gill-shaped plates forming the under surface of a mushroom.  3. (Zoöl.)  The fleshy flap that hangs below the beak of a fowl; a wattle.  4. The flesh under or about the chin. Swift.  5. (Spinning)  One of the combs of closely ranged steel pins which divide the ribbons of flax fiber or wool into fewer parallel filaments. Etym: [Prob. so called from F. aiguilles, needles. Ure.] Gill arches, Gill bars. (Anat.) Same as Branchial arches.  -- Gill clefts. (Anat.) Same as Branchial clefts. See under Branchial.  -- Gill cover, Gill lid. See Operculum.  -- Gill frame, or Gill head (Flax Manuf.), a spreader; a machine for subjecting flax to the action of gills. Knight.  -- Gill net, a flat net so suspended in the water that its meshes allow the heads of fish to pass, but catch in the gills when they seek to extricate themselves.  -- Gill opening, or Gill slit (Anat.), an opening behind and below the head of most fishes, and some amphibians, by which the water from the gills is discharged. In most fishes there is a single opening on each side, but in the sharks and rays there are five, or more, on each side.  -- Gill rakes, or Gill rakers (Anat.), horny filaments, or progresses, on the inside of the branchial arches of fishes, which help to prevent solid substances from being carried into gill cavities. 

GILL:  A two-wheeled frame for transporting timber. [Prov. Eng.] 

GILL:  A leech. [Also gell.] [Scot.] Jameison. 

GILL:  A woody glen; a narrow valley containing a stream. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

GILL:  A measure of capacity, containing one fourth of a pint. 

GILL:  The ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma); -- called also gill over the ground, and other like names.  3. Malt liquor medicated with ground ivy. Gill ale. (a) Ale flavored with ground ivy. (b) (Bot.) Alehoof.  GILL-FLIRT Gill"-flirt`, n.  A thoughtless, giddy girl; a flirt-gill. Sir W. Scott. 

GILLHOUSE:  A shop where gill is sold. Thee shall each alehouse, thee each gillhouse mourn. Pope. 

GILLIAN:  A girl; esp., a wanton; a gill. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  GILLIE; GILLY Gil"lie Gil"ly, n. Etym: [Gael. gille, giolla, boy, lad.]  A boy or young man; a manservant; a male attendant, in the Scottish Highlands. Sir W. Scott. 

GILOUR:  A guiler; deceiver. [Obs.] 

GILSE:  See Grilse. 

GILT:  A female pig, when young. 

GILT:  imp. & p. p. of Gild. 

GILT:  Gilded; covered with gold; of the color of gold; golden yellow. "Gilt hair" Chaucer. 

GILTHEAD:  A marine fish. The name is applied to two species: (a) The Pagrus, or Chrysophrys, auratus, a valuable food fish common in the Mediterranean (so named from its golden-colored head); -- called also giltpoll. (b) The Crenilabrus melops, of the British coasts; -- called also golden maid, conner, sea partridge. 

GILTIF:  Guilty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GILTTAIL:  A yellow-tailed worm or larva. 

GIM:  Neat; spruce. [Prov.]  GIMBAL; GIMBALS Gim"bal, or; Gim"bals (, n. Etym: [See Gimmal, n.]  A contrivance for permitting a body to incline freely in all directions, or for suspending anything, as a barometer, ship's compass, chronometer, etc., so that it will remain plumb, or level, when its support is tipped, as by the rolling of a ship. It consists of a ring in which the body can turn on an axis through a diameter of the ring, while the ring itself is so pivoted to its support that it can turn about a diameter at right angles to the first. Gimbal joint (Mach.), a universal joint embodying the principle of the gimbal.  -- Gimbal ring, a single gimbal, as that by which the cockeye of the upper millstone is supported on the spindle. 

GIMBLET:  See Gimlet. 

GIMCRACK:  A trivial mechanism; a device; a toy; a pretty thing. Arbuthnot. 

GIMLET:  A small tool for boring holes. It has a leading screw, a grooved body, and a cross handle. Gimlet eye, a squint-eye. [Colloq.] Wright. 

GIMLET:  To turn round (an anchor) by the stock, with a motion like turning a gimlet. 

GIMMAL:  Made or consisting of interlocked rings, gimmal mail. In their pale dull mouths the gimmal bit Lies foul with chewed grass. Shak. Gimmal joint. See Gimbal joint, under Gimbal.  GIMMER; GIMMOR Gim"mer, Gim"mor (, n. Etym: [Cf. Gimmal, n.]  A piece of mechanism; mechanical device or contrivance; a gimcrack. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. Shak. 

GIMP:  Smart; spruce; trim; nice. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

GIMP:  A narrow ornamental fabric of silk, woolen, or cotton, often with a metallic wire, or sometimes a coarse cord, running through it; -- used as trimming for dresses, furniture, etc. Gimp nail, an upholsterer's small nail. 

GIMP:  To notch; to indent; to jag. 

GIN:  Against; near by; towards; as, gin night. [Scot.] A. Ross (1778). 

GIN:  If. [Scotch] Jamieson. 

GIN:  To begin; -- often followed by an infinitive without to; as, gan tell. See Gan. [Obs. or Archaic] "He gan to pray." Chaucer. 

GIN:  A strong alcoholic liquor, distilled from rye and barley, and flavored with juniper berries; -- also called Hollands and Holland gin, because originally, and still very extensively, manufactured in Holland. Common gin is usually flavored with turpentine. 

GING:  Same as Gang, n., 2. [Obs.] There is a knot, a ging, a pack, a conspiracy against me. Shak. 

GINGAL:  See Jingal. 

GINGER:  A plant of the genus Zingiber, of the East and West Indies. The species most known is Z. officinale.  2. The hot and spicy rootstock of Zingiber officinale, which is much used in cookery and in medicine. Ginger beer or ale, a mild beer impregnated with ginger.  -- Ginger cordial, a liquor made from ginger, raisins, lemon rind, and water, and sometimes whisky or brandy.  -- Ginger pop. See Ginger beer (above).  -- Ginger wine, wine impregnated with ginger.  -- Wild ginger (Bot.), an American herb (Asarum Canadense) with two reniform leaves and a long, cordlike rootstock which has a strong taste of ginger. 

GINGERBREAD:  A kind of plain sweet cake seasoned with ginger, and sometimes made in fanciful shapes. "Gingerbread that was full fine." Chaucer. Gingerbread tree (Bot.), the doom palm; -- so called from the resemblance of its fruit to gingerbread. See Doom Palm.  -- Gingerbread work, ornamentation, in architecture or decoration, of a fantastic, trivial, or tawdry character. 

GINGERLY:  Cautiously; timidly; fastidiously; daintily. What is't that you took up so gingerly Shak. 

GINGERNESS:  Cautiousness; tenderness. 

GINGHAM:  A kind of cotton or linen cloth, usually in stripes or checks, the yarn of which is dyed before it is woven; -- distinguished from printed cotton or prints. 

GINGING:  The lining of a mine shaft with stones or bricks to prevent caving. 

GINGIVAL:  Of or pertaining to the gums. Holder. 

GINGLE:  See Jingle. 

GINGLYFORM:  Ginglymoid. 

GINGLYMODI:  An order of ganoid fishes, including the modern gar pikes and many allied fossil forms. They have rhombic, ganoid scales, a heterocercal tail, paired fins without an axis, fulcra on the fins, and a bony skeleton, with the vertebræ convex in front and concave behind, forming a ball and socket joint. See Ganoidel.  GINGLYMOID; GINGLYMOIDAL Gin"gly*moid, Gin`gly*moid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. ginglymoide, ginglymoïdal.] (Anat.)  Pertaining to, or resembling, a ginglymus, or hinge joint; ginglyform. 

GINGLYMUS:  A hinge joint; an articulation, admitting of flexion and extension, or motion in two directions only, as the elbow and the ankle. 

GINHOUSE:  A building where cotton is ginned. 

GINKGO:  A large ornamental tree (Ginkgo biloba) from China and Japan, belonging to the Yew suborder of Coniferæ. Its leaves are so like those of some maidenhair ferns, that it is also called the maidenhair tree. 

GINNEE:  See Jinnee. 

GINNET:  See Genet, a horse. 

GINNING:  Beginning. [Obs.] Chaucer.  GINNY-CARRIAGE Gin"ny-car`riage (, n.  A small, strong carriage for conveying materials on a railroad. [Eng.] 

GINSENG:  A plant of the genus Aralia, the root of which is highly valued as a medicine among the Chinese. The Chinese plant (Aralia Schinseng) has become so rare that the American (A. quinquefolia) has largely taken its place, and its root is now an article of export from America to China. The root, when dry, is of a yellowish white color, with a sweetness in the taste somewhat resembling that of licorice, combined with a slight aromatic bitterness. 

GINSHOP:  A shop or barroom where gin is sold as a beverage. [Colloq.] 

GIP:  To take out the entrails of (herrings). 

GIP:  A servant. See Gyp. Sir W. Scott. 

GIPOUN:  A short cassock. [Written also gepoun, gypoun, jupon, juppon.] [Obs.]  GIPSER; GIPSIRE Gip"ser, Gip"sire, n. Etym: [F. gibecière a game pouch or game pocket. Cf. Gibbier.]  A kind of pouch formerly worn at the girdle. Ld. Lytton. A gipser all of silk, Hung at his girdle, white as morné milk. Chaucer. 

GIPSY:  See Gypsy. 

GIPSYISM:  See Gypsyism. 

GIRAFFE:  An African ruminant (Camelopardalis giraffa) related to the deers and antelopes, but placed in a family by itself; the camelopard. It is the tallest of animals, being sometimes twenty feet from the hoofs to the top of the head. Its neck is very long, and its fore legs are much longer than its hind legs. 

GIRANDOLE:  A kind of revolving firework.  4. (Fort.)  A series of chambers in defensive mines. Farrow.  GIRASOLE; GIRASOL Gir"a*sole Gir"a*sol, n. Etym: [It. girasole, or F. girasol, fr. L. gyrare to turn around + sol sun.]  1. (Bot.)  See Heliotrope. [Obs.]  2. (Min.)  A variety of opal which is usually milk white, bluish white, or sky blue; but in a bright light it reflects a reddish color. 

GIRD:  To gibe; to sneer; to break a scornful jest; to utter severe sarcasms. Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at me. Shak. 

GIRDER:  One who girds; a satirist. 

GIRDER:  A main beam; a stright, horizontal beam to span an opening or carry weight, such as ends of floor beams, etc.; hence, a framed or built-up member discharging the same office, technically called a compound girder. See Illusts. of Frame, and Doubleframed floor, under Double. Bowstring girder, Box girder, etc. See under Bowstring, Box, etc.  -- Girder bridge. See under Bridge.  -- Lattice girder, a girder consisting of longitudinal bars united by diagonal crossing bars.  -- Half-lattice girder, a girder consisting of horizontal upper and lower bars connected by a series of diagonal bars sloping alternately in opposite directions so as to divide the space between the bars into a series of triangles. Knight.  -- Sandwich girder, a girder consisting of two parallel wooden beams, between which is an iron plate, the whole clamped together by iron bolts. 

GIRDING:  That with which one is girded; a girdle. Instead of a stomacher, a girding of sackcloth. Is. iii. 24. 

GIRDLE:  A griddle. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 

GIRDLE:  The line ofgreatest circumference of a brilliant-cut diamond, at which it is grasped by the setting. See Illust. of Brilliant. Knight.  4. (Mining)  A thin bed or stratum of stone. Raymond.  5. (Zoöl.)  The clitellus of an earthworm. Girdle bone (Anat.), the sphenethmoid. See under Sphenethmoid.  -- Girdle wheel, a spinning wheel.  -- Sea girdle (Zoöl.), a ctenophore. See Venus's girdle, under Venus.  -- Shoulder, Pectoral, and Pelvic, girdle. (Anat.) See under Pectoral, and Pelvic.  -- To have under the girdle, to have bound to one, that is, in subjection. 

GIRDLER:  An American longicorn beetle (Oncideres cingulatus) which lays its eggs in the twigs of the hickory, and then girdles each branch by gnawing a groove around it, thus killing it to provide suitable food for the larvæ. 

GIRE:  See Gyre. 

GIRKIN:  See Gherkin. 

GIRL:  A roebuck two years old. [Prov. Eng.] 

GIRLHOOD:  State or time of being a girl. 

GIRLISH:  Like, or characteristic of, a girl; of or pertaining to girlhood; innocent; artless; immature; weak; as, girlish ways; girlish grief.  -- Girl"ish*ly, adv.  -- Girl"ish*ness, n. 

GIRLOND:  A garland; a prize. [Obs.] Chapman. 

GIRN:  To grin. [Obs.] 

GIRONDIST:  A member of the moderate republican party formed in the French legislative assembly in 1791. The Girondists were so called because their leaders were deputies from the department of La Gironde. 

GIRONDIST:  Of or pertaining to the Girondists. [Written also Girondin.] 

GIRROCK:  A garfish. Johnson. 

GIRT:  imp. & p. p. of Gird. 

GIRT:  To gird; to encircle; to invest by means of a girdle; to measure the girth of; as, to girt a tree. We here create thee the first duke of Suffolk, And girt thee with the sword. Shak. 

GIRT:  Bound by a cable; -- used of a vessel so moored by two anchors that she swings against one of the cables by force of the current or tide. 

GIRT:  Same as Girth. 

GIRTH:  To bind as with a girth. [R.] Johnson. 

GIRTLINE:  A gantline. Hammock girtline, a line rigged for hanging out hammocks to dry. 

GISARM:  A weapon with a scythe-shaped blade, and a separate long sharp point, mounted on a long staff and carried by foot soldiers. 

GISE:  To feed or pasture. [Obs.] 

GISE:  Guise; manner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GISLE:  A pledge. [Obs.] Bp. Gibson.  GISMONDINE; GISMONDITE Gis*mon"dine, Gis*mon"dite, n. Etym: [From the name of the discoverer, Gismondi.] (Min.)  A native hydrated silicate of alumina, lime, and potash, first noticed near Rome. 

GIT:  See Geat.  GITANA; GITANO Gi*ta"na, n. fem.; Gi*ta"no, n. masc. [Sp., fr. (assumed) LL. Aegyptanus, fem. Aegyptana, Egyptian. Cf. Gypsy.]  A Spanish gypsy. 

GITE:  A gown. [Obs.] She came often in a gite of red. Chaucer. 

GITH:  The corn cockle; also anciently applied to the Nigella, or fennel flower. 

GITTERN:  An instrument like a guitar. "Harps, lutes, and giternes." Chaucer. 

GITTERN:  To play on gittern. Milton. 

GITTITH:  A musical instrument, of unknown character, supposed by some to have been used by the people of Gath, and thence obtained by David. It is mentioned in the title of Psalms viii., lxxxi., and lxxxiv. Dr. W. Smith. 

GIUST:  Same as Joust. Spenser. 

GIUST:  Same as Joust.  Spenser. 

GIUSTO:  In just, correct, or suitable time. 

GIVE:  To set forth as a known quantity or a known relation, or as a premise from which to reason; -- used principally in the passive form given.  9. To allow or admit by way of supposition. I give not heaven for lost. Mlton.  10. To attribute; to assign; to adjudge. I don't wonder at people's giving him to me as a lover. Sheridan.  11. To excite or cause to exist, as a sensation; as, to give offense; to give pleasure or pain.  12. To pledge; as, to give one's word.  13. To cause; to make; -- with the infinitive; as, to give one to understand, to know, etc. But there the duke was given to understand That in a gondola were seen together Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica. Shak. To give away, to make over to another; to transfer. Whatsoever we employ in charitable uses during our lives, is given away from ourselves. Atterbury. -- To give back, to return; to restore. Atterbury.  -- To give the bag, to cheat. [Obs.] I fear our ears have given us the bag. J. Webster. -- To give birth to. (a) To bear or bring forth, as a child. (b) To originate; to give existence to, as an enterprise, idea.  -- To give chase, to pursue.  -- To give ear to. See under Ear.  -- To give forth, to give out; to publish; to tell. Hayward.  -- To give ground. See under Ground, n.  -- To give the hand, to pledge friendship or faith.  -- To give the hand of, to espouse; to bestow in marriage.  -- To give the head. See under Head, n.  -- To give in. (a) To abate; to deduct. (b) To declare; to make known; to announce; to tender; as, to give in one's adhesion to a party.  -- To give the lie to (a person), to tell (him) that he lies.  -- To give line. See under Line.  -- To give off, to emit, as steam, vapor, odor, etc.  -- To give one's self away, to make an inconsiderate surrender of one's cause, an unintentional disclosure of one's purposes, or the like. [Colloq.] -- To give out. (a) To utter publicly; to report; to announce or declare. One that gives out himself Prince Florizel. Shak. Give out you are of Epidamnum. Shak. (b) To send out; to emit; to distribute; as, a substance gives out steam or odors.  -- To give over. (a) To yield completely; to quit; to abandon. (b) To despair of. (c) To addict, resign, or apply (one's self). The Babylonians had given themselves over to all manner of vice. Grew.  -- To give place, to withdraw; to yield one's claim.  -- To give points. (a) In games of skill, to equalize chances by conceding a certain advantage; to allow a handicap. (b) To give useful suggestions. [Colloq.] -- To give rein. See under Rein, n.  -- To give the sack . Same as To give the bag.  -- To give and take. (a) To average gains and losses. (b) To exchange freely, as blows, sarcasms, etc.  -- To give time (Law), to accord extension or forbearance to a debtor. Abbott.  -- To give the time of day, to salute one with the compliment appropriate to the hour, as "good morning." "good evening", etc.  -- To give tongue, in hunter's phrase, to bark; -- said of dogs.  -- To give up. (a) To abandon; to surrender. "Don't give up the ship." He has . . . given up For certain drops of salt, your city Rome. Shak. (b) To make public; to reveal. I'll not state them By giving up their characters. Beau. & Fl. (c) (Used also reflexively.) -- To give up the ghost. See under Ghost.  -- To give one's self up, to abandon hope; to despair; to surrender one's self.  -- To give way. (a) To withdraw; to give place. (b) To yield to force or pressure; as, the scaffolding gave way. (c) (Naut.) To begin to row; or to row with increased energy. (d) (Stock Exchange). To depreciate or decline in value; as, railroad securities gave way two per cent.  -- To give way together, to row in time; to keep stroke.  Syn.  -- To Give, Confer, Grant. To give is the generic word, embracing all the rest. To confer was originally used of persons in power, who gave permanent grants or privileges; as, to confer the order of knighthood; and hence it still denotes the giving of something which might have been withheld; as, to confer a favor. To grant is to give in answer to a petition or request, or to one who is in some way dependent or inferior. 

GIVEN:  p. p. & a. from Give, v.  1. (Math. & Logic)  Granted; assumed; supposed to be known; set forth as a known quantity, relation, or premise.  2. Disposed; inclined; -- used with an adv.; as, virtuously given. Shak.  3. Stated; fixed; as, in a given time. Given name, the Christian name, or name given by one's parents or guardians, as distinguished from the surname, which is inherited. [Colloq.] 

GIVER:  One who gives; a donor; a bestower; a grantor; one who imparts or distributes. It is the giver, and not the gift, that engrosses the heart of the Christian. Kollock. 

GIVES:  Fetters. 

GIZZARD:  The second, or true, muscular stomach of birds, in which the food is crushed and ground, after being softened in the glandular stomach (crop), or lower part of the esophagus; the gigerium.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) A thick muscular stomach found in many invertebrate animals. (b) A stomach armed with chitinous or shelly plates or teeth, as in certain insects and mollusks. Gizzard shad (Zoöl.), an American herring (Dorosoma cepedianum) resembling the shad, but of little value.  -- To fret the gizzard, to harass; to vex one's self; to worry. [Low] Hudibras.  -- To stick in one's gizzard, to be difficult of digestion; to be offensive. [Low] 

GLABELLA:  The space between the eyebrows, also including the corresponding part of the frontal bone; the mesophryon.  -- Gla*bel"lar, a. 

GLABELLUM:  The median, convex lobe of the head of a trilobite. See Trilobite. 

GLABRATE:  Becoming smooth or glabrous from age. Gray.  GLABREATE; GLABRIATE Gla"bre*ate, Gla"bri*ate, v. t. Etym: [See Glabrate.]  To make smooth, plain, or bare. [Obs.] 

GLABRITY:  Smoothness; baldness. [R.] 

GLABROUS:  Smooth; having a surface without hairs or any unevenness. 

GLACE:  Coated with icing; iced; glazed; -- said of fruits, sweetmeats, cake, etc. 

GLACIAL:  Resembling ice; having the appearance and consistency of ice; - - said of certain solid compounds; as, glacial phosphoric or acetic acids. Glacial acid (Chem.), an acid of such strength or purity as to crystallize at an ordinary temperature, in an icelike form; as acetic or carbolic acid.  -- Glacial drift (Geol.), earth and rocks which have been transported by moving ice, land ice, or icebergs; bowlder drift.  -- Glacial epoch or period (Geol.), a period during which the climate of the modern temperate regions was polar, and ice covered large portions of the northern hemisphere to the mountain tops.  -- Glacial theory or hypothesis. (Geol.) See Glacier theory, under Glacier. 

GLACIALIST:  One who attributes the phenomena of the drift, in geology, to glaciers. 

GLACIATE:  To turn to ice. 

GLACIATE:  To produce glacial effects upon, as in the scoring of rocks, transportation of loose material, etc. Glaciated rocks, rocks whose surfaces have been smoothed, furrowed, or striated, by the action of ice. 

GLACIER:  An immense field or stream of ice, formed in the region of perpetual snow, and moving slowly down a mountain slope or valley, as in the Alps, or over an extended area, as in Greenland.  Note: The mass of compacted snow forming the upper part of a glacier is called the firn, or névé; the glacier proper consist of solid ice, deeply crevassed where broken up by irregularities in the slope or direction of its path. A glacier usually carries with it accumulations of stones and dirt called moraines, which are designated, according to their position, as lateral, medial, or terminal (see Moraine). The common rate of flow of the Alpine glaciers is from ten to twenty inches per day in summer, and about half that in winter. Glacier theory (Geol.), the theory that large parts of the frigid and temperate zones were covered with ice during the glacial, or ice, period, and that, by the agency of this ice, the loose materials on the earth's surface, called drift or diluvium, were transported and accumulated. 

GLACIOUS:  Pertaining to, consisting of or resembling, ice; icy. Sir T. Browne. 

GLACIS:  A gentle slope, or a smooth, gently sloping bank; especially (Fort.), that slope of earth which inclines from the covered way toward the exterior ground or country (see Illust. of Ravelin). 

GLAD:  To make glad; to cheer; to gladden; to exhilarate. Chaucer. That which gladded all the warrior train. Dryden. Each drinks the juice that glads the heart of man. Pope. 

GLAD:  To be glad; to rejoice. [Obs.] Massinger. 

GLADDEN:  To make glad; to cheer; to please; to gratify; to rejoice; to exhilarate. A secret pleasure gladdened all that saw him. Addison. 

GLADDEN:  To be or become glad; to rejoice. The vast Pacific gladdens with the freight. Wordsworth. 

GLADDER:  One who makes glad. Chaucer. 

GLADEN:  Sword grass; any plant with sword-shaped leaves, esp. the European Iris foetidissima. [Written also gladwyn, gladdon, and glader.] 

GLADEYE:  The European yellow-hammer. 

GLADFUL:  Full of gladness; joyful; glad. [R.] -- Glad"ful*ness, n. [R.] Spenser. It followed him with gladful glee. Spenser. 

GLADIATE:  Sword-shaped; resembling a sword in form, as the leaf of the iris, or of the gladiolus. 

GLADIATOR:  Of or pertaining to gladiators, or to contests or combatants in general. 

GLADIATORISM:  The art or practice of a gladiator. 

GLADIATORSHIP:  Conduct, state, or art, of a gladiator. 

GLADIATORY:  Gladiatorial. [R.] 

GLADIATURE:  Swordplay; fencing; gladiatorial contest. Gayton. 

GLADIOLE:  A lilylike plant, of the genus Gladiolus; -- called also corn flag. 

GLADIOLUS:  A genus of plants having bulbous roots and gladiate leaves, and including many species, some of which are cultivated and valued for the beauty of their flowers; the corn flag; the sword lily.  2. (Anat.)  The middle portion of the sternum in some animals; the mesosternum. 

GLADIUS:  The internal shell, or pen, of cephalopods like the squids. 

GLADNESS:  State or quality of being glad; pleasure; joyful satisfaction; cheerfulness. They . . . did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart. Acts ii. 46.  Note: Gladness is rarely or never equivalent to mirth, merriment, gayety, and triumph, and it usually expresses less than delight. It sometimes expresses great joy. The Jews had joy and gladness, a feast and a good day. Esther viii. 17. 

GLADSHIP:  A state of gladness. [Obs.] Gower. 

GLADSTONE:  A four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two inside seats, calash top, and seats for driver and footman. 

GLADWYN:  See Gladen. 

GLAIR:  To smear with the white of an egg. 

GLAIRE:  See Glair. 

GLAIREOUS:  Glairy; covered with glair. 

GLAIRIN:  A glairy viscous substance, which forms on the surface of certain mineral waters, or covers the sides of their inclosures; -- called also baregin. 

GLAIRY:  Like glair, or partaking of its qualities; covered with glair; viscous and transparent; slimy. Wiseman. 

GLAMA:  A copious gummy secretion of the humor of the eyelids, in consequence of some disorder; blearedness; lippitude. 

GLAMOURIE:  Glamour. [Scot.] 

GLANCE:  A name given to some sulphides, mostly dark-colored, which have a brilliant metallic luster, as the sulphide of copper, called copper glance. Glance coal, anthracite; a mineral composed chiefly of carbon.  -- Glance cobalt, cobaltite, or gray cobalt.  -- Glance copper, c -- Glance wood, a hard wood grown in Cuba, and used for gauging instruments, carpenters' rules, etc. McElrath. 

GLANCINGLY:  In a glancing manner; transiently; incidentally; indirectly. Hakewill. 

GLAND:  The movable part of a stuffing box by which the packing is compressed; -- sometimes called a follower. See Illust. of Stuffing box, under Stuffing.  4. (Mach.)  The crosspiece of a bayonet clutch. 

GLANDAGE:  A feeding on nuts or mast. [Obs.] Crabb. 

GLANDERED:  Affected with glanders; as, a glandered horse. Yu 

GLANDEROUS:  Of or pertaining to glanders; of the nature of glanders. Youatt. 

GLANDERS:  A highly contagious and very destructive disease of horses, asses, mules, etc., characterized by a constant discharge of sticky matter from the nose, and an enlargement and induration of the glands beneath and within the lower jaw. It may transmitted to dogs, goats, sheep, and to human beings. 

GLANDIFEROUS:  Bearing acorns or other nuts; as, glandiferous trees. 

GLANDIFORM:  Having the form of a gland or nut; resembling a gland. 

GLANDULAR:  Containing or supporting glands; consisting of glands; pertaining to glands. 

GLANDULATION:  The situation and structure of the secretory vessels in plants. Martyn. Glandulation respects the secretory vessels, which are either glandules, follicles, or utricles. J. Lee. 

GLANDULE:  A small gland or secreting vessel. 

GLANDULIFEROUS:  Bearing glandules. 

GLANDULOSE:  Same as Glandulous. 

GLANDULOSITY:  Quality of being glandulous; a collection of glands. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

GLANDULOUS:  Containing glands; consisting of glands; pertaining to glands; resembling glands. 

GLANS:  The vascular body which forms the apex of the penis, and the extremity of the clitoris.  2. (Bot.)  The acorn or mast of the oak and similar fruits. Gray.  3. (Med.) (a) Goiter. (b) A pessary. [Obs.] 

GLARE:  To shoot out, or emit, as a dazzling light. Every eye Glared lightning, and shot forth pernicious fire. Milton. 

GLARE:  Smooth and bright or translucent; -- used almost exclusively of ice; as, skating on glare ice. [U. S.] 

GLAREOUS:  Glairy. John Georgy (1766).  GLARINESS; GLARINGNESS Glar"i*ness, Glar"ing*ness, n.  A dazzling luster or brilliancy. 

GLARING:  Clear; notorious; open and bold; barefaced; as, a glaring crime.  -- Glar"ing*ly, adv. 

GLARY:  Of a dazzling luster; glaring; bright; shining; smooth. Bright, crystal glass is glary. Boyle. 

GLASS:  Any substance having a peculiar glassy appearance, and a conchoidal fracture, and usually produced by fusion.  3. Anything made of glass. Especially: (a) A looking-glass; a mirror. (b) A vessel filled with running sand for measuring time; an hourglass; and hence, the time in which such a vessel is exhausted of its sand. She would not live The running of one glass. Shak.  (c) A drinking vessel; a tumbler; a goblet; hence, the contents of such a vessel; especially; spirituous liquors; as, he took a glass at dinner. (d) An optical glass; a lens; a spyglass; -- in the plural, spectacles; as, a pair of glasses; he wears glasses. (e) A weatherglass; a barometer.  Note: Glass is much used adjectively or in combination; as, glass maker, or glassmaker; glass making or glassmaking; glass blower or glassblower, etc. Bohemian glass, Cut glass, etc. See under Bohemian, Cut, etc.  -- Crown glass, a variety of glass, used for making the finest plate or window glass, and consisting essentially of silicate of soda or potash and lime, with no admixture of lead; the convex half of an achromatic lens is composed of crown glass; -- so called from a crownlike shape given it in the process of blowing.  -- Crystal glass, or Flint glass. See Flint glass, in the Vocabulary.  -- Cylinder glass, sheet glass made by blowing the glass in the form of a cylinder which is then split longitudinally, opened out, and flattened.  -- Glass of antimony, a vitreous oxide of antimony mixed with sulphide.  -- Glass blower, one whose occupation is to blow and fashion glass.  -- Glass blowing, the art of shaping glass, when reduced by heat to a viscid state, by inflating it through a tube.  -- Glass cloth, a woven fabric formed of glass fibers.  -- Glass coach, a coach superior to a hackney-coach, hired for the day, or any short period, as a private carriage; -- so called because originally private carriages alone had glass windows. [Eng.] Smart. Glass coaches are [allowed in English parks from which ordinary hacks are excluded], meaning by this term, which is never used in America, hired carriages that do not go on stands. J. F. Cooper. -- Glass cutter. (a) One who cuts sheets of glass into sizes for window panes, ets. (b) One who shapes the surface of glass by grinding and polishing. (c) A tool, usually with a diamond at the point, for cutting glass.  -- Glass cutting. (a) The act or process of dividing glass, as sheets of glass into panes with a diamond. (b) The act or process of shaping the surface of glass by appylying it to revolving wheels, upon which sand, emery, and, afterwards, polishing powder, are applied; especially of glass which is shaped into facets, tooth ornaments, and the like. Glass having ornamental scrolls, etc., cut upon it, is said to be engraved.  -- Glass metal, the fused material for making glass.  -- Glass painting, the art or process of producing decorative effects in glass by painting it with enamel colors and combining the pieces together with slender sash bars of lead or other metal. In common parlance, glass painting and glass staining (see Glass staining, below) are used indifferently for all colored decorative work in windows, and the like.  -- Glass paper, paper faced with pulvirezed glass, and used for abrasive purposes.  -- Glass silk, fine threads of glass, wound, when in fusion, on rapidly rotating heated cylinders.  -- Glass silvering, the process of transforming plate glass into mirrors by coating it with a reflecting surface, a deposit of silver, or a mercury amalgam.  -- Glass soap, or Glassmaker's soap, the black oxide of manganese or other substances used by glass makers to take away color from the materials for glass.  -- Glass staining, the art or practice of coloring glass in its whole substance, or, in the case of certain colors, in a superficial film only; also, decorative work in glass. Cf. Glass painting.  -- Glass tears. See Rupert's drop.  -- Glass works, an establishment where glass is made.  -- Heavy glass, a heavy optical glass, consisting essentially of a borosilicate of potash.  -- Millefiore glass. See Millefiore.  -- Plate glass, a fine kind of glass, cast in thick plates, and flattened by heavy rollers, -- used for mirrors and the best windows.  -- Pressed glass, glass articles formed in molds by pressure when hot.  -- Soluble glass (Chem.), a silicate of sodium or potassium, found in commerce as a white, glassy mass, a stony powder, or dissolved as a viscous, sirupy liquid; -- used for rendering fabrics incombustible, for hardening artificial stone, etc.; -- called also water glass.  -- Spun glass, glass drawn into a thread while liquid.  -- Toughened glass, Tempered glass, glass finely tempered or annealed, by a peculiar method of sudden cooling by plunging while hot into oil, melted wax, or paraffine, etc.; -- called also, from the name of the inventor of the process, Bastie glass.  -- Water glass. (Chem.) See Soluble glass, above.  -- Window glass, glass in panes suitable for windows. 

GLASS:  The larval state (Phyllosoma) of the genus Palinurus and allied genera. It is remarkable for its strange outlines, thinness, and transparency. See Phyllosoma. 

GLASSEN:  Glassy; glazed. [Obs.] And pursues the dice with glassen eyes. B. Jonson. 

GLASSEYE:  A fish of the great lakes; the wall-eyed pike.  2. (Far.)  A species of blindness in horses in which the eye is bright and the pupil dilated; a sort of amaurosis. Youatt.  GLASS-FACED Glass"-faced`, a.  Mirror-faced; reflecting the sentiments of another. [R.] "The glass-faced flatterer." Shak. 

GLASSFUL:  The contents of a glass; as much of anything as a glass will hold. 

GLASSFUL:  Glassy; shining like glass. [Obs.] "Minerva's glassful shield." Marston.  GLASS-GAZING Glass"-gaz`ing, a.  Given to viewing one's self in a glass or mirror; finical. [Poetic] Shak. 

GLASSHOUSE:  A house where glass is made; a commercial house that deals in glassware. 

GLASSILY:  So as to resemble glass. 

GLASSINESS:  The quality of being glassy. 

GLASSITE:  A member of a Scottish sect, founded in the 18th century by John Glass, a minister of the Established Church of Scotland, who taught that justifying faith is "no more than a simple assent to the divine testimone passively recived by the understanding." The English and American adherents of this faith are called Sandemanians, after Robert Sandeman, the son-in-law and disciple of Glass.  GLASS MAKER; GLASSMAKER Glass" mak`er, or; Glass"mak`er, n.  One who makes, or manufactures, glass.  -- Glass" mak`ing, or Glass"mak`ing, n.  GLASS-ROPE Glass"-rope`, n. (Zoöl.)  A remarkable vitreous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, first brought from Japan. It has a long stem, consisting of a bundle of long and large, glassy, siliceous fibers, twisted together.  GLASS-SNAIL Glass"-snail`, n. (Zoöl.)  A small, transparent, land snail, of the genus Vitrina.  GLASS-SNAKE Glass"-snake`, n. (Zoöl.)  A long, footless lizard (Ophiosaurus ventralis), of the Southern United States; -- so called from its fragility, the tail easily breaking into small pieces. It grows to the length of three feet. The name is applied also to similar species found in the Old World.  GLASS-SPONGE Glass"-sponge`, n. (Zoöl.)  A siliceous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, and allied genera; -- so called from their glassy fibers or spicules; -- called also vitreous sponge. See Glass-rope, and Euplectella. 

GLASSWARE:  Ware, or articles collectively, made of glass. 

GLASSWORK:  Manufacture of glass; articles or ornamentation made of glass. 

GLASSWORT:  A seashore plant of the Spinach family (Salicornia herbacea), with succulent jointed stems; also, a prickly plant of the same family (Salsola Kali), both formerly burned for the sake of the ashes, which yield soda for making glass and soap. 

GLASSY:  A variety of the common hawthorn. Loudon. 

GLASYNGE:  Glazing or glass. [Obs.] 

GLAUBERITE:  A mineral, consisting of the sulphates of soda and lime.  GLAUBER'S SALT; GLAUBER'S SALTS Glau"ber's salt` or; Glau"ber's salts` (. Etym: [G. glaubersalz, from Glauber, a German chemist who discovered it. See Glauberite.]  Sulphate of soda, a well-known cathartic. It is a white crystalline substance, with a cooling, slightly bitter taste, and is commonly called "salts."  Note: It occurs naturally and abundantly in some mineral springs, and in many salt deposits, as the mineral mirabilite. It is manufactured in large quantities as an intermediate step in the "soda process," and also for use in glass making. 

GLAUCESCENT:  Having a somewhat glaucous appearance or nature; becoming glaucous. 

GLAUCIC:  Of or pertaining to the Glaucium or horned poppy; -- formerly applied to an acid derived from it, now known to be fumaric acid. 

GLAUCINE:  Glaucous or glaucescent. 

GLAUCINE:  An alkaloid obtained from the plant Glaucium, as a bitter, white, crystalline substance. 

GLAUCODOT:  A metallic mineral having a grayish tin-white color, and containing cobalt and iron, with sulphur and arsenic. 

GLAUCOMA:  Dimness or abolition of sight, with a diminution of transparency, a bluish or greenish tinge of the refracting media of the eye, and a hard inelastic condition of the eyeball, with marked increase of tension within the eyeball. 

GLAUCOMATOUS:  Having the nature of glaucoma. 

GLAUCOMETER:  See Gleucometer. 

GLAUCONITE:  The green mineral characteristic of the greensand of the chalk and other formations. It is a hydrous silicate of iron and potash. See Greensand. 

GLAUCOPHANE:  A mineral of a dark bluish color, related to amphibole. It is characteristic of certain crystalline rocks. 

GLAUCOSIS:  Same as Glaucoma. 

GLAUCOUS:  Covered with a fine bloom or fine white powder easily rubbed off, as that on a blue plum, or on a cabbage leaf. Gray. 

GLAUCUS:  A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks, found in the warmer latitudes, swimming in the open sea. These mollusks are beautifully colored with blue and silvery white. 

GLAUM:  To grope with the hands, as in the dark. [Scot.] To glaum at, to grasp or snatch at; to aspire to. Wha glaum'd at kingdoms three. Burns. 

GLAVE:  See Glaive. 

GLAVERER:  A flatterer. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag. 

GLAYMORE:  A claymore. Johnson. 

GLAZE:  To apply thinly a transparent or semitransparent color to (another color), to modify the effect. 

GLAZE:  To become glazed of glassy. 

GLAZE:  Broth reduced by boiling to a gelatinous paste, and spread thinly over braised dishes.  3. A glazing oven. See Glost oven. 

GLAZEN:  Resembling glass; glasslike; glazed. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

GLAZIER:  One whose business is to set glass. Glazier's diamond. See under Diamond. 

GLAZING:  Transparent, or semitransparent, colors passed thinly over other colors, to modify the effect. 

GLAZY:  Having a glazed appearance; -- said of the fractured surface of some kinds of pin iron. 

GLEAD:  A live coal. See Gleed. [Archaic] 

GLEAM:  To disgorge filth, as a hawk. 

GLEAM:  To shoot out (flashes of light, etc.). Dying eyes gleamed forth their ashy lights. Shak. 

GLEAMY:  Darting beams of light; casting light in rays; flashing; coruscating. In brazed arms, that cast a gleamy ray, Swift through the town the warrior bends his way. Pope. 

GLEAN:  A collection made by gleaning. The gleans of yellow thyme distend his thighs. Dryden. 

GLEAN:  Cleaning; afterbirth. [Obs.] Holland. 

GLEANING:  The act of gathering after reapers; that which is collected by gleaning. Glenings of natural knowledge. Cook. 

GLEBA:  The chambered sporogenous tissue forming the central mass of the sporophore in puff balls, stinkhorns, etc. 

GLEBE:  The land belonging, or yielding revenue, to a parish church or ecclesiastical benefice. 

GLEBELESS:  Having no glebe. 

GLEBOSITY:  The quality of being glebous. [R.]  GLEBOUS; GLEBY Gleb"ous, Gleb"y, a. Etym: [Cf. L. glaebosus cloddy.]  Pertaining to the glebe; turfy; cloddy; fertile; fruitful. "Gleby land." Prior. 

GLEDE:  The common European kite (Milvus ictinus). This name is also sometimes applied to the buzzard. [Written also glead, gled, gleed, glade, and glide.] 

GLEDE:  A live coal. [Archaic] The cruel ire, red as any glede. Chaucer. 

GLEE:  An unaccompanied part song for three or more solo voices. It is not necessarily gleesome.  GLEE CLUB Glee club.  A club or company organized for singing glees, and (by extension) part songs, ballads, etc. 

GLEED:  A live or glowing coal; a glede. [Archaic] Chaucer. Longfellow. 

GLEEFUL:  Merry; gay; joyous. Shak. 

GLEEK:  An enticing look or glance. [Obs.] A pretty gleek coming from Pallas' eye. Beau. & Fl. 

GLEEK:  To make sport; to gibe; to sneer; to spend time idly. [Obs.] Shak. 

GLEEMAN:  A name anciently given to an itinerant minstrel or musician. 

GLEEN:  To glisten; to gleam. [Obs.] Prior. 

GLEESOME:  Merry; joyous; gleeful. 

GLEET:  A transparent mucous discharge from the membrane of the urethra, commonly an effect of gonorrhea. Hoblyn. 

GLEETY:  Ichorous; thin; limpid. Wiseman. 

GLEG:  Quick of perception; alert; sharp. [Scot.] Jamieson.  GLEIRE; GLEYRE Gleire, Gleyre, n.  See Glair. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GLEN:  A secluded and narrow valley; a dale; a depression between hills. And wooes the widow's daughter of the glen. Spenser.  GLENGARRY; GLENGARRY BONNET Glen*gar"ry, n., or Glen*gar"ry bon"net. [Name of a valley in Scotland.]  A kind of Highland Scotch cap for men, with straight sides and a hollow top sloping to the back, where it is parted and held together by ribbons or strings.  The long silk streamers of his Glengarry bonnet. L. Hutton.  GLENLIVAT; GLENLIVET Glen*liv"at, Glen*liv"et, n.  A kind of Scotch whisky, named from the district in which it was first made. W. E. Aytoun. 

GLENOID:  Having the form of a smooth and shallow depression; sockas, the glenoid cavity, or fossa, of the scapula, in which the head of the humerus articulates. 

GLENOIDAL:  Glenoid. 

GLENT:  See Glint. 

GLEUCOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the specific gravity and ascertaining the quantity of sugar contained in must. 

GLEW:  See Glue. [Obs.] 

GLEY:  To squint; to look obliquely; to overlook things. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

GLEY:  Asquint; askance; obliquely. 

GLIADIN:  Vegetable glue or gelatin; glutin. It is one of the constituents of wheat gluten, and is a tough, amorphous substance, which resembles animal glue or gelatin. 

GLIB:  To make glib. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

GLIB:  A thick lock of hair, hanging over the eyes. [Obs.] The Irish have, from the Scythians, mantles and long glibs, which is a thick curied bush of hair hanging down over their eyes, and monstrously disguising them. Spenser. Their wild costume of the glib and mantle. Southey. 

GLIB:  To castrate; to geld; to emasculate. [Obs.] Shak. 

GLIBLY:  In a glib manner; as, to speak glibly. 

GLIBNESS:  The quality of being glib. 

GLICKE:  An ogling look. [Obs.] 

GLIDDEN:  p. p. of Glide. Chaucer.  GLIDDER; GLIDDERY Glid"der, Glid"der*y, a. Etym: [Cf. Glide.]  Giving no sure footing; smooth; slippery. [Prov. Eng.] Shingle, slates, and gliddery stones. R. D. Blackmore. 

GLIDE:  The glede or kite. 

GLIDE:  To pass with a glide, as the voice. 

GLIDE:  A transitional sound in speech which is produced by the changing of the mouth organs from one definite position to another, and with gradual change in the most frequent cases; as in passing from the begining to the end of a regular diphthong, or from vowel to consonant or consonant to vowel in a syllable, or from one component to the other of a double or diphthongal consonant (see Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 19, 161, 162). Also (by Bell and others), the vanish (or brief final element) or the brief initial element, in a class of diphthongal vowels, or the brief final or initial part of some consonants (see Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 18, 97, 191).  Note: The on-glide of a vowel or consonant is the glidemade in passing to it, the off-glide, one made in passing from it. Glides of the other sort are distinguished as initial or final, or fore-glides and after-glides. For voice-glide, see Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 17, 95. 

GLIDEN:  p. p. of Glide. Chaucer. 

GLIDER:  One who, or that which, glides.  GLIDING ANGLE Gliding angle. (Aëronautics)  The angle, esp. the least angle, at which a gliding machine or aëroplane will glide to earth by virtue of gravity without applied power. 

GLIDINGLY:  In a gliding manner.  GLIDING MACHINE Gliding machine. (Aëronautics)  A construction consisting essentially of one or more aëroplanes for gliding in an inclined path from a height to the ground. 

GLIKE:  A sneer; a flout. [Obs.] 

GLIMMER:  To give feeble or scattered rays of light; to shine faintly; to show a faint, unsteady light; as, the glimmering dawn; a glimmering lamp. The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day. Shak.  Syn.  -- To gleam; to glitter. See Gleam, Flash. 

GLIMPSE:  to appear by glimpses; to catch glimpses. Drayton. 

GLIMPSE:  To catch a glimpse of; to see by glimpses; to have a short or hurried view of. Some glimpsing and no perfect sight. Chaucer. 

GLINT:  A glimpse, glance, or gleam. [Scot.] "He saw a glint of light." Ramsay. 

GLINT:  To glance; to peep forth, as a flower from the bud; to glitter. Burns. 

GLINT:  To glance; to turn; as, to glint the eye. 

GLIOMA:  A tumor springing from the neuroglia or connective tissue of the brain, spinal cord, or other portions of the nervous system. 

GLIRES:  An order of mammals; the Rodentia.  -- Gli"rine, a. 

GLISSADE:  A sliding, as down a snow slope in the Alps. Tyndall. 

GLISSANDO:  A gliding effect; gliding. 

GLISSETTE:  The locus described by any point attached to a curve that slips continuously on another fixed curve, the movable curve having no rotation at any instant. 

GLIST:  Glimmer; mica. 

GLISTEN:  To sparkle or shine; especially, to shine with a mild, subdued, and fitful luster; to emit a soft, scintillating light; to gleam; as, the glistening stars.  Syn.  -- See Flash. 

GLISTER:  To be bright; to sparkle; to be brilliant; to shine; to glisten; to glitter. All that glisters is not gold. Shak. 

GLISTER:  Glitter; luster. 

GLISTER:  Same as Clyster. 

GLISTERINGLY:  In a glistering manner. 

GLITTER:  A bright, sparkling light; brilliant and showy luster; brilliancy; as, the glitter of arms; the glitter of royal equipage. Milton. 

GLITTERAND:  Glittering. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GLITTERINGLY:  In a glittering manner. 

GLOAM:  To be sullen or morose. [Obs.] 

GLOAM:  The twilight; gloaming. [R.] Keats. 

GLOAR:  To squint; to stare. [Obs.] 

GLOAT:  To look steadfastly; to gaz In vengeance gloating on another's pain. Byron. 

GLOBARD:  A glowworm. {Obs.] Holland.  GLOBATE; GLOBATED Glo"bate, Glo"ba*ted, a. Etym: [L. globatus, p. p. of globare to make into a ball, fr. globus ball.]  Having the form of a globe; spherical. 

GLOBE:  To gather or form into a globe. 

GLOBEFISH:  A plectognath fish of the genera Diodon, Tetrodon, and allied genera. The globefishes can suck in water or air and distend the body to a more or less globular form. Called also porcupine fish, and sea hedgehog. See Diodon. 

GLOBEFLOWER:  Shaped like a globe. 

GLOBIFEROUS:  Having a round or globular tip. 

GLOBIGERINA:  A genus of small Foraminifera, which live abundantly at or near the surface of the sea. Their dead shells, falling to the bottom, make up a large part of the soft mud, generally found in depths below 3,000 feet, and called globigerina ooze. See Illust. of Foraminifera. 

GLOBOSE:  Having a rounded form resembling that of a globe; globular, or nearly so; spherical. Milton. 

GLOBOSELY:  In a globular manner; globularly. 

GLOBOSITY:  Sphericity. Ray. 

GLOBOUS:  Spherical. Milton. 

GLOBULAR:  Globe-shaped; having the form of a ball or sphere; spherical, or nearly so; as, globular atoms. Milton. Globular chart, a chart of the earth's surface constructed on the principles of the globular projection.  -- Globular projection (Map Projection), a perspective projection of the surface of a hemisphere upon a plane parallel to the base of the hemisphere, the point of sight being taken in the axis produced beyond the surface of the opposite hemisphere a distance equal to the radius of the sphere into the sine of 45º.  -- Globular sailing, sailing on the arc of a great circle, or so as to make the shortest distance between two places; circular sailing. 

GLOBULARITY:  The state of being globular; globosity; sphericity. 

GLOBULARLY:  Spherically. 

GLOBULARNESS:  Sphericity; globosity. 

GLOBULE:  A minute spherical or rounded structure; as blood, lymph, and pus corpuscles, minute fungi, spores, etc.  3. A little pill or pellet used by homeopathists. 

GLOBULET:  A little globule. Crabb. 

GLOBULIFEROUS:  Bearing globules; in geology, used of rocks, and denoting a variety of concretionary structure, where the concretions are isolated globules and evenly distributed through the texture of the rock. 

GLOBULIMETER:  An instrument for measuring the number of red blood corpuscles in the blood.  Note: The method depends on the differences of tint obtained by mixing a sample of the blood with sodium carbonate solution. 

GLOBULIN:  An albuminous body, insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute solutions of salt. It is present in the red blood corpuscles united with hæmatin to form hæmoglobin. It is also found in the crystalline lens of the eye, and in blood serum, and is sometimes called crystallin. In the plural the word is applied to a group of proteid substances such as vitellin, myosin, fibrinogen, etc., all insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute salt solutions. 

GLOBULITE:  A rudimentary form of crystallite, spherical in shape. 

GLOBULOUS:  Globular; spherical; orbicular.  -- Glob"u*lous*ness, n. 

GLOBY:  Resembling, or pertaining to, a globe; round; orbicular. "The globy sea." Milton. 

GLOCHIDIATE:  Having barbs; as, glochidiate bristles. Gray. 

GLOCHIDIUM:  The larva or young of the mussel, formerly thought to be a parasite upon the parent's gills. 

GLOCKENSPIEL:  An instrument, originally a series of bells on an iron rod, now a set of flat metal bars, diatonically tuned, giving a bell-like tone when played with a mallet; a carillon. 

GLODE:  imp. of Glide. Chaucer.  GLOMBE; GLOME Glombe, Glome, v. i.  To gloom; to look gloomy, morose, or sullen. [Obs.] Surrey. 

GLOME:  Gloom. [Obs.] 

GLOME:  One of the two prominences at the posterior extremity of the frog of the horse's foot. 

GLOMERATE:  Gathered together in a roundish mass or dense cluster; conglomerate. 

GLOMERATE:  To gather or wind into a ball; to collect into a spherical form or mass, as threads. 

GLOMEROUS:  Gathered or formed into a ball or round mass. [Obs.] Blount. 

GLOMERULE:  A head or dense cluster of flowers, formed by condensation of a cyme, as in the flowering dogwood.  2. (Anat.)  A glomerulus. 

GLOMERULUS:  The bunch of looped capillary blood vessels in a Malpighian capsule of the kidney. 

GLOMULIFEROUS:  Having small clusters of minutely branched coral-like excrescences. M. C. Cooke.  GLONOIN; GLONOINE Glon"o*in Glon"o*ine, n. Etym: [Glycerin + oxygen + nitrogen + -in, - ine.]  1. Same as Nitroglycerin; -- called also oil of glonoin. [Obs.]  2. (Med.)  A dilute solution of nitroglycerin used as a neurotic. 

GLOOMILY:  In a gloomy manner. 

GLOOMINESS:  State of being gloomy. Addison. 

GLOOMING:  Twilight (of morning or evening); the gloaming. When the faint glooming in the sky First lightened into day. Trench. The balmy glooming, crescent-lit. Tennyson. 

GLOOMTH:  Gloom. [R.] Walpole. 

GLOPPEN:  To surprise or astonish; to be startled or astonished. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

GLORE:  To glare; to glower. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

GLORIATION:  Boast; a triumphing. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson. Internal gloriation or triumph of the mind. Hobbes. 

GLORIED:  Illustrious; honorable; noble. [Obs.] Milton. 

GLORIOLE:  An aureole. [R.] Msr. Browning. 

GLORIOSA:  A genus of climbing plants with very showy lilylike blossoms, natives of India. 

GLORIOSER:  A boaster. [Obs.] Greene. 

GLORIOSO:  A boaster. [Obs.] Fuller. 

GLOSE:  See Gloze. Chaucer. 

GLOSER:  See Glosser. 

GLOSS:  To give a superficial luster or gloss to; to make smooth and shining; as, to gloss cloth. The glossed and gleamy wave. J. R. Drake. 

GLOSSA:  The tongue, or lingua, of an insect. See Hymenoptera. 

GLOSSAL:  Of or pertaining to the tongue; lingual. 

GLOSSANTHRAX:  A disease of horses and cattle accompanied by carbuncles in the mouth and on the tongue. 

GLOSSARIAL:  Of or pertaining to glosses or to a glossary; containing a glossary. 

GLOSSARIALLY:  In the manner of a glossary. 

GLOSSARIST:  A writer of glosses or of a glossary; a commentator; a scholiast. Tyrwhitt. 

GLOSSARY:  A collection of glosses or explanations of words and passages of a work or author; a partial dictionary of a work, an author, a dialect, art, or science, explaining archaic, technical, or other uncommon words. 

GLOSSATA:  The Lepidoptera. 

GLOSSATOR:  A writer of glosses or comments; a commentator. [R.] "The . . . glossators of Aristotle." Milman. 

GLOSSER:  A polisher; one who gives a luster. 

GLOSSER:  A writer of glosses; a scholiast; a commentator. L. Addison. 

GLOSSIC:  A system of phonetic spelling based upon the present values of English letters, but invariably using one symbol to represent one sound only. Ingglish Glosik konvaiA. J. Ellis. 

GLOSSILY:  In a glossy manner. 

GLOSSINESS:  The condition or quality of being glossy; the luster or brightness of a smooth surface. Boyle. 

GLOSSIST:  A writer of comments. [Obs.] Milton. 

GLOSSITIS:  Inflammation of the tongue. 

GLOSSLY:  Like gloss; specious. Cowley. 

GLOSSOCOMON:  A kind of hoisting winch. 

GLOSSOEPIGLOTTIC:  Pertaining to both tongue and epiglottis; as, glossoepiglottic folds. 

GLOSSOGRAPHER:  A writer of a glossary; a commentator; a scholiast. Hayward. 

GLOSSOGRAPHICAL:  Of or pertaining to glossography. 

GLOSSOGRAPHY:  The writing of glossaries, glosses, or comments for illustrating an author. 

GLOSSOHYAL:  Pertaining to both the hyoidean arch and the tongue; -- applied to the anterior segment of the hyoidean arch in many fishes.  -- n. The glossohyal bone or cartilage; lingual bone; entoglossal bone.  GLOSSOLALIA; GLOSSOLALY Glos`so*la"li*a, Glos*sol"a*ly, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. glossolalie.]  The gift of tongues. Farrar. 

GLOSSOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to glossology. 

GLOSSOLOGIST:  One who defines and explains terms; one who is versed in glossology. 

GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL:  Pertaining to both the tongue and the pharynx; -- applied especially to the ninth pair of cranial nerves, which are distributed to the pharynx and tongue.  -- n. One of the glossopharyngeal nerves. 

GLOSSY:  An oven in which glazed pottery is fired; -- also called glaze kiln, or glaze. 

GLOTTAL:  Of or pertaining to, or produced by, the glottis; glottic. Glottal catch, an effect produced upon the breath or voice by a sudden opening or closing of the glotts. Sweet.  GLOTTIC; GLOTTIDEAN Glot"tic, Glot*tid"e*an, a.  Of or pertaining to the glottis; glottal. 

GLOTTIS:  The opening from the pharynx into the larynx or into the trachea. See Larynx. 

GLOTTOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to glottology. 

GLOTTOLOGIST:  A linguist; a philologist. 

GLOTTOLOGY:  The science of tongues or languages; comparative philology; glossology. 

GLOUT:  To pout; to look sullen. [Obs.] Garth. 

GLOUT:  To view attentively; to gloat on; to stare at. [Obs.] Wright. 

GLOVE:  To cover with, or as with, a glove. 

GLOVER:  One whose trade it is to make or sell gloves. Glover's suture or stitch, a kind of stitch used in sewing up wounds, in which the thread is drawn alternately through each side from within outward. 

GLOW:  To make hot; to flush. [Poetic] Fans, whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool. Shak. 

GLOWBARD:  The glowworm. [Obs.] 

GLOWER:  to look intently; to stare angrily or with a scowl. Thackeray. 

GLOWINGLY:  In a glowing manner; with ardent heat or passion. 

GLOWLAMP:  An aphlogistic lamp. See Aphlogistic.  2. (Elect.)  An incandescent lamp. See Incandescent, a. 

GLOWWORM:  A coleopterous insect of the genus Lampyris; esp., the wingless females and larvæ of the two European species (L. noctiluca, and L. splendidula), which emit light from some of the abdominal segments. Like a glowworm in the night, The which hath fire in darkness, none in light. Shak.  Note: The male is winged, and is supposed to be attracted by the light of the female. In America, the luminous larvæ of several species of fireflies and fire beetles are called glowworms. Both sexes of these are winged when mature. See Firefly. 

GLOXINIA:  American genus of herbaceous plants with very handsome bell- shaped blossoms; -- named after B. P. Gloxin, a German botanist. 

GLOZE:  To smooth over; to palliate. By glozing the evil that is in the world. I. Taylor. 

GLOZER:  A flatterer. [Obs.] Gifford (1580). 

GLUCIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, sugar; as, glucic acid. 

GLUCINA:  A white or gray tasteless powder, the oxide of the element glucinum; -- formerly called glucine. 

GLUCINIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, glucinum; as, glucinic oxide. 

GLUCINUM:  A rare metallic element, of a silver white color, and low specific gravity (2.1), resembling magnesium. It never occurs naturally in the free state, but is always combined, usually with silica or alumina, or both; as in the minerals phenacite, chrysoberyl, beryl or emerald, euclase, and danalite. It was named from its oxide glucina, which was known long before the element was isolated. Symbol Gl. Atomic weight 9.1. Called also beryllium. [Formerly written also glucinium.] 

GLUCOGEN:  See Glycogen. 

GLUCOGENESIS:  Glycogenesis. [R.] 

GLUCONIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, glucose. Gluconic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, obtained as a colorless, sirupy liquid, by the oxidation of glucose; -- called also maltonic acid, and dextronic acid. 

GLUCOSE:  Any one of a large class of sugars, isometric with glucose proper, and including levulose, galactose, etc.  3. The trade name of a sirup, obtained as an uncrystallizable reside in the manufacture of glucose proper, and containing, in addition to some dextrose or glucose, also maltose, dextrin, etc. It is used as a cheap adulterant of sirups, beers, etc. 

GLUCOSIDE:  One of a large series of amorphous or crystalline substances, occurring very widely distributed in plants, rarely in animals, and regarded as influental agents in the formation and disposition of the sugars. They are frequently of a bitter taste, but, by the action of ferments, or of dilute acids and alkalies, always break down into some characteristic substance (acid, aldehyde, alcohol, phenole, or alkaloid) and glucose (or some other sugar); hence the name. They are of the nature of complex and compound ethers, and ethereal salts of the sugar carbohydrates. 

GLUCOSURIA:  A condition in which glucose is discharged in the urine; diabetes mellitus. 

GLUE:  A hard brittle brownish gelatin, obtained by boiling to a jelly the skins, hoofs, etc., of animals. When gently heated with water, it becomes viscid and tenaceous, and is used as a cement for uniting substances. The name is also given to other adhesive or viscous substances. Bee glue. See under Bee.  -- Fish glue, a strong kind of glue obtained from fish skins and bladders; isinglass.  -- Glue plant (Bot.), a fucoid seaweed (Gloiopeltis tenax).  -- Liquid glue, a fluid preparation of glue and acetic acid oralcohol.  -- Marine glue, a solution of caoutchouc in naphtha, with shellac, used in shipbuilding. 

GLUE:  To join with glue or a viscous substance; to cause to stick or hold fast, as if with glue; to fix or fasten. This cold, congealed blood That glues my lips, and will not let me speak. Shak. 

GLUEPOT:  A utensil for melting glue, consisting of an inner pot holding the glue, immersed in an outer one containing water which is heated to soften the glue. 

GLUER:  One who cements with glue. 

GLUEY:  Viscous; glutinous; of the nature of, or like, glue. 

GLUEYNESS:  Viscidity. 

GLUISH:  Somewhat gluey. Sherwood. 

GLUM:  Sullenness. [Obs.] Skelton. 

GLUM:  Moody; silent; sullen. I frighten people by my glun face. Thackeray. 

GLUM:  To look sullen; to be of a sour countenance; to be glum. [Obs.] Hawes. 

GLUMACEOUS:  Having glumes; consisting of glumes. 

GLUMAL:  Characterized by a glume, or having the nature of a glume. 

GLUME:  The bracteal covering of the flowers or seeds of grain and grasses; esp., an outer husk or bract of a spikelt. Gray.  GLUMELLA; GLUMELLE Glu*mel"la, Glu"melle, n. Etym: [F. glumelle, dim. of glume.] (Bot.)  One of the pelets or inner chaffy scales of the flowers or spikelets of grasses. 

GLUMLY:  In a glum manner; sullenly; moodily. 

GLUMMY:  dark; gloomy; dismal. [Obs.] 

GLUMNESS:  Moodiness; sullenness. 

GLUMP:  To manifest sullenness; to sulk. [Colloq.] 

GLUMPY:  Glum; sullen; sulky. [Colloq.] "He was glumpy enough." T. Hook. 

GLUNCH:  Frowning; sulky; sullen. Sir W. Scott.  -- n.  A sullen, angry look; a look of disdain or dislike. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

GLUT:  To eat gluttonously or to satiety. Like three horses that have broken fence, And glutted all night long breast-deep in corn. Tennyson. 

GLUT:  The broad-nosed eel (Anguilla latirostris), found in Europe, Asia, the West Indies, etc. 

GLUTACONIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, an acid intermediate between glutaric and aconitic acids. 

GLUTAEUS:  The great muscle of the buttock in man and most mammals, and the corresponding muscle in many lower animals.  Note: In man, the glutæus is composed of three distinct parts, which extend and abduct the thigh, and help support the body in standing. 

GLUTAMIC:  Of or pertaining to gluten. Glutamic acid, a nitrogenous organic acid obtained from certain albuminoids, as gluten; -- called also amido-glutaric acid.C5H9NO4. 

GLUTARIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid so called; as, glutaric ethers. Glutaric acid, an organic acid obtained as a white crystalline substance, isomeric with pyrotartaric acid; -- called also normal pyrotartaric acid. 

GLUTAZINE:  A nitrogenous substance, forming a heavy, sandy powder, white or nearly so. It is a derivative of pyridine. 

GLUTEAL:  Pertaining to, or in the region of, the glutæus. 

GLUTEN:  The viscid, tenacious substance which gives adhesiveness to dough.  Note: Gluten is a complex and variable mixture of glutin or gliadin, vegetable fibrin, vegetable casein, oily material, etc., and ia a very nutritious element of food. It may be separated from the flour of grain by subjecting this to a current of water, the starch and other soluble matters being thus washed out. Gluten bread, bread containing a large proportion of gluten; -- used in cases of diabetes.  -- Gluten casein (Chem.), a vegetable proteid found in the seeds of grasses, and extracted as a dark, amorphous, earthy mass.  -- Gluten fibrin (Chem.), a vegetable proteid found in the cereal grains, and extracted as an amorphous, brownish yellow substance. 

GLUTEUS:  Same as Glutæus. 

GLUTINATE:  To unite with glue; to cement; to stick together. Bailey. 

GLUTINATION:  The act of uniting with glue; sticking together. 

GLUTINATIVE:  Having the quality of cementing; tenacious; viscous; glutinous. 

GLUTINOSITY:  The quality of being glutinous; viscousness. [R.] 

GLUTINOUS:  Havig a moist and adhesive or sticky surface, as a leaf or gland. 

GLUTINOUSNESS:  The quality of being glutinous. 

GLUTTON:  A carnivorous mammal (Gulo luscus), of the family Mustelidæ, about the size of a large badger. It was formerly believed to be inordinately voracious, whence the name; the wolverene. It is a native of the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia. Glutton bird (Zoöl.), the giant fulmar (Ossifraga gigantea); -- called also Mother Carey's goose, and mollymawk. 

GLUTTON:  Gluttonous; greedy; gormandizing. "Glutton souls." Dryden. A glutton monastery in former ages makes a hungry ministry in our days. Fuller. 

GLUTTON:  To glut; to eat voraciously. [Obs.] Gluttoned at last, return at home to pine. Lovelace. Whereon in Egypt gluttoning they fed. Drayton. 

GLUTTONISH:  Gluttonous; greedy. Sir P. Sidney. 

GLUTTONIZE:  To eat to excess; to eat voraciously; to gormandize. Hallywell. 

GLUTTONOUS:  Given to gluttony; eating to excess; indulging the appetite; voracious; as, a gluttonous age.  -- Glut"ton*ous*ly, adv.  -- Glut"ton*ous*ness, n. 

GLUTTONY:  Excess in eating; extravagant indulgence of the appetite for food; voracity. Their sumptuous gluttonies, and gorgeous feasts. Milton. 

GLYCERATE:  A salt of glyceric acid. 

GLYCERIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, glycerin. Glyceric acid (Chem.), an organic acid, obtained by the partial oxidation of glycerin, as a thick liquid. It is a hydroxyl derivative of propionic acid, and has both acid and alcoholic properties. 

GLYCERIDE:  A compound ether (formed from glycerin). Some glycerides exist ready formed as natural fats, others are produced artificially.  GLYCERIN; GLYCERINE Glyc"er*in, Glyc"er*ine (, n. Etym: [F. glycérine, fr. Gr. glykero`s, glyky`s, sweet. Cf. Glucose, Licorice.] (Chem.)  An oily, viscous liquid, C3H5(OH)3, colorless and odorless, and with a hot, sweetish taste, existing in the natural fats and oils as the base, combined with various acids, as oleic, margaric, stearic, and palmitic. It is a triatomic alcohol, and hence is also called glycerol. See Note under Gelatin.  Note: It is obtained from fats by saponification, or, on a large scale, by the action of superheated steam. It is used as an ointment, as a solvent and vehicle for medicines, and as an adulterant in wine, beer, etc. 

GLYCERITE:  A medicinal preparation made by mixing or dissolving a substance in glycerin. 

GLYCEROL:  Same as Glycerin. 

GLYCEROLE:  Same as Glycerite. 

GLYCERYL:  A compound radical, C3H5, regarded as the essential radical of glycerin. It is metameric with allyl. Called also propenyl. 

GLYCIDE:  A colorless liquid, obtained from certain derivatives of glycerin, and regarded as a partially dehydrated glycerin; -- called also glycidic alcohol. 

GLYCIDIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, glycide; as, glycidic acid. 

GLYCIN:  Same as Glycocoll. 

GLYCOCHOLATE:  A salt of glycocholic acid; as, sodium glycocholate. 

GLYCOCHOLIC:  Pertaining to, or composed of, glycocoll and cholic acid. Glycocholic acid (Physiol. Chem.), a conjugate acid, composed of glycocoll and cholic acid, present in bile in the form of a sodium salt. The acid commonly forms a resinous mass, but can be crystallized in long, white needles. 

GLYCOCIN:  Same as Glycocoll. 

GLYCOCOLL:  A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, with a sweet taste, formed from hippuric acid by boiling with hydrochloric acid, and present in bile united with cholic acid. It is also formed from gelatin by decomposition with acids. Chemically, it is amido-acetic acid. Called also glycin, and glycocin. 

GLYCOGEN:  A white, amorphous, tasteless substance resembling starch, soluble in water to an opalescent fluid. It is found abundantly in the liver of most animals, and in small quantity in other organs and tissues, particularly in the embryo. It is quickly changed into sugar when boiled with dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, and also by the action of amylolytic ferments. 

GLYCOGENIC:  Pertaining to, or caused by, glycogen; as, the glycogenic function of the liver.  GLYCOGENY; GLYCOGENESIS Gly*cog"e*ny, Gly`co*gen"e*sis, n. (Physiol.)  The production or formation of sugar from gycogen, as in the liver. 

GLYCOLIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, glycol; as, glycolic ether; glycolic acid. Glycolic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, found naturally in unripe grapes and in the leaves of the wild grape (Ampelopsis quinquefolia), and produced artificially in many ways, as by the oxidation of glycol, -- whence its name. It is a sirupy, or white crystalline, substance, HO.CH2.CO2H, has the properties both of an alcohol and an acid, and is a type of the hydroxy acids; -- called also hydroxyacetic acid. 

GLYCOLIDE:  A white amorphous powder, C4H4O, obtained by heating and dehydrating glycolic acid. [Written also glycollide.] 

GLYCOLURIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, glycol and urea; as, glycoluric acid, which is called also hydantoic acid. 

GLYCOLURIL:  A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, obtained by the reduction of allantoïn. 

GLYCOLYL:  A divalent, compound radical, CO.CH2, regarded as the essential radical of glycolic acid, and a large series of related compounds. 

GLYCONIAN:  Glyconic. 

GLYCONIC:  Consisting of a spondee, a choriamb, and a pyrrhic; -- applied to a kind of verse in Greek and Latin poetry.  -- n. (Pros.)  A glyconic verse. 

GLYCONIN:  An emulsion of glycerin and the yolk of eggs, used as an ointment, as a vehicle for medicines, etc. 

GLYCOSE:  One of a class of carbohydrates having from three to nine atoms of carbon in the molecules and having the constitution either of an aldehyde alcohol or of a ketone alcohol. Most glycoses have hydrogen and oxygen present in the proportion to form water, while the number of carbon atoms is usually equal to the number of atoms of oxygen. 

GLYCOSINE:  An organic base, C6H6N4, produced artificially as a white, crystalline powder, by the action of ammonia on glyoxal. 

GLYCOSOMETER:  An apparatus for determining the amount of sugar in diabetic urine. 

GLYCOSURIA:  Same as Gluoosuria. 

GLYCYRRHIZA:  A genus of papilionaceous herbaceous plants, one species of which (G. glabra), is the licorice plant, the roots of which have a bittersweet mucilaginous taste.  2. (Med.)  The root of Glycyrrhiza glabra (liquorice root), used as a demulcent, etc. 

GLYCYRRHIZIMIC:  From, or pertaining to, glycyrrhizin; as, glycyrrhizimic acid. 

GLYCYRRHIZIN:  A glucoside found in licorice root (Glycyrrhiza), in monesia bark (Chrysophyllum), in the root of the walnut, etc., and extracted as a yellow, amorphous powder, of a bittersweet taste.  GLYN; GLYNNE Glyn, Glynne, n.  A glen. See Glen.  Note: [Obs. singly, but occurring often in locative names in Ireland, as Glen does in Scotland.] He could not beat out the Irish, yet he did shut them up within those narrow corners and glyns under the mountain's foot. Spenser. 

GLYOXAL:  A white, amorphous, deliquescent powder, (CO.H)2, obtained by the partial oxidation of glycol. It is a double aldehyde, between glycol and oxalic acid. 

GLYOXALIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an aldehyde acid, intermediate between glycol and oxalic acid. [Written also glyoxylic.] 

GLYOXALINE:  A white, crystalline, organic base, C3H4N2, produced by the action of ammonia on glyoxal, and forming the origin of a large class of derivatives hence, any one of the series of which glyoxaline is a type; -- called also oxaline. 

GLYOXIME:  A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, produced by the action of hydroxylamine on glyoxal, and belonging to the class of oximes; also, any one of a group of substances resembling glyoxime proper, and of which it is a type. See Oxime. 

GLYPH:  A sunken channel or groove, usually vertical. See Triglyph. 

GLYPHIC:  Of or pertaining to sculpture or carving of any sort, esp. to glyphs. 

GLYPHOGRAPH:  A plate made by glyphography, or an impression taken from such a plate. 

GLYPHOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to glyphography. 

GLYPHOGRAPHY:  A process similar to etching, in which, by means of voltaic electricity, a raised copy of a drawing is made, so that it can be used to print from. 

GLYPTIC:  Figured; marked as with figures. 

GLYPTICS:  The art of engraving on precious stones. 

GLYPTODON:  An extinct South American quaternary mammal, allied to the armadillos. It was as large as an ox, was covered with tessellated scales, and had fluted teeth. Owen. 

GLYPTODONT:  One of a family (glyptodontidæ) of extinct South American edentates, of which Glyptodon is the type. About twenty species are known. 

GLYPTOGRAPHIC:  Relating to glyptography, or the art of engraving on precious stones. [R.] 

GLYPTOGRAPHY:  The art or process of engraving on precious stones. [R.] 

GLYPTOTHECA:  A building or room devoted to works of sculpture. 

GLYSTER:  Same as Clyster. 

GMELINITE:  A rhombohedral zeolitic mineral, related in form and composition to chabazite. 

GNAPHALIUM:  A genus of composite plants with white or colored dry and persistent involucres; a kind of everlasting. 

GNAR:  A knot or gnarl in wood; hence, a tough, thickset man; -- written also gnarr. [Archaic] He was . . . a thick gnarre. Chaucer. 

GNAR:  To gnarl; to snarl; to growl; -- written also gnarr. [Archaic] At them he gan to rear his bristles strong, And felly gnarre. Spenser. A thousand wants Gnarr at the heels of men. Tennison. 

GNARL:  To growl; to snarl. And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first. Shak. 

GNARL:  a knot in wood; a large or hard knot, or a protuberance with twisted grain, on a tree. 

GNARLED:  Knotty; full of knots or gnarls; twisted; crossgrained. The unwedgeable and gnarléd oak. Shak. 

GNARLY:  Full of knots; knotty; twisted; crossgrained. 

GNASH:  To strike together, as in anger or pain; as, to gnash the teeth. 

GNASH:  To grind or strike the teeth together. There they him laid, Gnashing for anguish, and despite, and shame. Milton. 

GNASHINGLY:  With gnashing. 

GNAT:  A blood-sucking dipterous fly, of the genus Culex, undergoing a metamorphosis in water. The females have a proboscis armed with needlelike organs for penetrating the skin of animals. These are wanting in the males. In America they are generally called mosquitoes. See Mosquito.  2. Any fly resembling a Culex in form or habits; esp., in America, a small biting fly of the genus Simulium and allies, as the buffalo gnat, the black fly, etc. Gnat catcher (Zoöl.), one of several species of small American singing birds, of the genus Polioptila, allied to the kinglets.  -- Gnat flower, the bee flower.  -- Gnat hawk (Zoöl.), the European goatsucker; -- called also gnat owl.  -- Gnat snapper (Zoöl.), a bird that catches gnats.  -- Gnat strainer, a person ostentatiously punctilious about trifles. Cf. Matt. xxiii. 24. 

GNATHIC:  Of or pertaining to the jaw. Gnathic index, in a skull, the ratio of the distance from the middle of the nasofrontal suture to the basion (taken equal to 100), to the distance from the basion to the middle of the front edge of the upper jaw; -- called also alveolar index. Skulls with the gnathic index below 98 are orthognathous, from 98 to 103 mesognathous, and above 103 are prognathous. Flower. 

GNATHIDIUM:  The ramus of the lower jaw of a bird as far as it is naked; -- commonly used in the plural. 

GNATHITE:  Any one of the mouth appendages of the Arthropoda. They are known as mandibles, maxillæ, and maxillipeds.  GNATHONIC; GNATHONICAL Gna*thon"ic, Gna*thon"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Gnatho, name of a parasite in the "Eunuchus" of Terence, Gr.  Flattering; deceitful. [Obs.] 

GNATHOPOD:  A gnathopodite or maxilliped. See Maxilliped. 

GNATHOPODITE:  Any leglike appendage of a crustacean, when modified wholly, or in part, to serve as a jaw, esp. one of the maxillipeds. 

GNATHOSTEGITE:  One of a pair of broad plates, developed from the outer maxillipeds of crabs, and forming a cover for the other mouth organs. 

GNATHOSTOMA:  A comprehensive division of vertebrates, including all that have distinct jaws, in contrast with the leptocardians and marsipobranchs (Cyclostoma), which lack them. [Written also Gnathostomata.] 

GNATHOTHECA:  The horney covering of the lower mandible of a bird. 

GNATLING:  A small gnat. 

GNATWORM:  The aquatic larva of a gnat; -- called also, colloquially, wiggler. 

GNAW:  To use the teeth in biting; to bite with repeated effort, as in eating or removing with the teethsomething hard, unwiedly, or unmanageable. I might well, like the spaniel, gnaw upon the chain that ties me. Sir P. Sidney. 

GNAWER:  A rodent. 

GNEISS:  A crystalline rock, consisting, like granite, of quartz, feldspar, and mica, but having these materials, especially the mica, arranged in planes, so that it breaks rather easily into coarse slabs or flags. Hornblende sometimes takes the place of the mica, and it is then called hornblendic or syenitic gneiss. Similar varieties of related rocks are also called gneiss. 

GNEISSIC:  Relating to, or resembling, gneiss; consisting of gneiss. 

GNEISSOID:  Resembling gneiss; having some of the characteristics of gneiss; -- applied to rocks of an intermediate character between granite and gneiss, or mica slate and gneiss. 

GNEISSOSE:  Having the structure of gneiss. 

GNEW:  imp. of Gnaw. Chaucer. 

GNIDE:  To rub; to bruise; to break in pieces. [Obs.]  Note: This word is found in Tyrwhitt's Chaucer, but improperly. The woed, though common in Old English, does not occur in Chaucer. T. R. Lounsbury. 

GNOF:  Churl; curmudgeon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GNOME:  A small owl (Glaucidium gnoma) of the Western United States.  4. Etym: [Gr.  A brief reflection or maxim. Peacham.  GNOMIC; GNOMICAL Gnom"ic, Gnom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. gnomique. See Gnome maxim.]  Sententious; uttering or containing maxims, or striking detached thoughts; aphoristic. A city long famous as the seat of elegiac and gnomic poetry. G. R. Lewes. Gnomic Poets, Greek poets, as Theognis and Solon, of the sixth century B. C., whose writings consist of short sententious precepts and reflections. 

GNOMICAL:  Gnomonical. Boyle. 

GNOMICALLY:  In a gnomic, didactic, or sententious manner.  GNOMOLOGIC; GNOMOLOGICAL Gno`mo*log"ic, Gno`mo*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Pertaining to, of the nature of, or resembling, a gnomology. 

GNOMOLOGY:  A collection of, or a treatise on, maxims, grave sentences, or reflections. [Obs.] Milton. 

GNOMON:  The style or pin, which by its shadow, shows the hour of the day. It is usually set parallel to the earth's axis.  2. (Astron.)  A style or column erected perpendicularly to the horizon, formerly used in astronomocal observations. Its principal use was to find the altitude of the sun by measuring the length of its shadow.  3. (Geom.)  The space included between the boundary lines of two similar parallelograms, the one within the other, with an angle in common; as, the gnomon bcdefg of the parallelograms ac and af. The parallelogram bf is the complement of the parallelogram df.  4. The index of the hour circle of a globe.  GNOMONIC; GNOMONICAL Gno*mon"ic, Gno*mon"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. gnomonicus, Gr. gnomonique. See Gnomon.]  Of or pertaining to the gnomon, or the art of dialing. Gnomonic projection, a projection of the circles of the sphere, in which the point of sight is taken at the center of the sphere, and the principal plane is tangent to the surface of the sphere. "The gnomonic projection derives its name from the connection between the methods of describing it and those for the construction of a gnomon or dial." Cyc. of Arts & Sciences. 

GNOMONICALLY:  According to the principles of the gnomonic projection. 

GNOMONICS:  The art or science of dialing, or of constructing dials to show the hour of the day by the shadow of a gnomon. 

GNOMONIST:  One skilled in gnomonics. Boyle. 

GNOMONOLOGY:  A treatise on gnomonics. 

GNOSCOPINE:  An alkaloid existing in small quantities in opium. 

GNOSIS:  The deeper wisdom; knowledge of spiritual truth, such as was claimed by the Gnostics. 

GNOSTIC:  Of or pertaining to Gnosticism or its adherents; as, the Gnostic heresy. 

GNOSTIC:  One of the so-called philosophers in the first ages of Christianity, who claimed a true philosophical interpretation of the Christian religion. Their system combined Oriental theology and Greek philosophy with the doctrines of Christianity. They held that all natures, intelligible, intellectual, and material, are derived from the Deity by successive emanations, which they called Eons. 

GNOSTICISM:  The system of philosophy taught by the Gnostics. 

GNOW:  Gnawed. Chaucer. 

GNU:  One of two species of large South African antelopes of the genus Catoblephas, having a mane and bushy tail, and curved horns in both sexes. [Written also gnoo.]  Note: The common gnu or wildebeest (Catoblephas gnu) is plain brown; the brindled gnu or blue wildebeest (C. gorgon) is larger, with transverse stripes of black on the neck and shoulders. 

GO:  Gone. Chaucer. 

GO:  That condition in the course of the game when a player can not lay down a card which will not carry the aggregate count above thirty-one. Great go, Little go, the final and the preliminary examinations for a degree. [Slang, Eng. Univ.] -- No go, a failure; a fiasco. [Slang] Thackeray.  -- On the go, moving about; unsettled. [Colloq.] 

GOA:  A species of antelope (Procapra picticauda), inhabiting Thibet. 

GOAD:  A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, any necessity that urges or stimulates. The daily goad urging him to the daily toil. Macaulay. 

GOAD:  To prick; to drive with a goad; hence, to urge forward, or to rouse by anything pungent, severe, irritating, or inflaming; to stimulate. That temptation that doth goad us on. Shak.  Syn.  -- To urge; stimulate; excite; arouse; irritate; incite; instigate. 

GOAF:  That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partially or wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob . To work the goaf or gob, to remove the pillars of mineral matter previously left to support the roof, and replace them with props. Ure. 

GOAL:  A bitter powder (also called araroba) found in the interspaces of the wood of a Brazilian tree (Andira araroba) and used as a medicine. It is the material from which chrysarobin is obtained. 

GOAR:  Same as lst Gore. 

GOARISH:  Patched; mean. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

GOAT:  A hollow-horned ruminant of the genus Capra, of several species and varieties, esp. the domestic goat (C. hircus), which is raised for its milk, flesh, and skin.  Note: The Cashmere and Angora varieties of the goat have long, silky hair, used in the manufacture of textile fabrics. The wild or bezoar goat (Capra ægagrus), of Asia Minor, noted for the bezoar stones found in its stomach, is supposed to be one of the ancestral species ofthe domestic goat. The Rocky Montain goat (Haplocercus montanus) is more nearly related to the antelopes. See Mazame. Goat antelope (Zoöl), one of several species of antelopes, which in some respects resemble a goat, having recurved horns, a stout body, large hoofs, and a short, flat tail, as the goral, thar, mazame, and chikara.  -- Goat fig (Bot.), the wild fig.  -- Goat house. (a) A place for keeping goats. (b) A brothel. [Obs.] -- Goat moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus Cossus, esp. the large European species (C. ligniperda), the larva of which burrows in oak and willow trees, and requires three years to mature. It exhales an odor like that of the he-goat.  -- Goat weed (Bot.), a scrophulariaceous plant, of the genus Capraria (C. biflora).  -- Goat's bane (Bot.), a poisonous plant (Aconitum Lucoctonum), bearing pale yellow flowers, introduced from Switzerland into England; wolfsbane.  -- Goat's beard (Bot.), a plant of the genus Tragopogon; -- so named from the long silky beard of the seeds. One species is the salsify or oyster plant.  -- Goat's foot (Bot.), a kind of wood sorrel (Oxalis caprina) growing at the Cape of Good Hope.  -- Goat's rue (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Galega officinalis of Europe, or Tephrosia Virginiana in the United States).  -- Goat's thorn (Bot.), a thorny leguminous plant (Astragalus Tragacanthus), found in the Levant.  -- Goat's wheat (Bot.), the genus Tragopyrum (now referred to Atraphaxis). 

GOATEE:  A part of a man's beard on the chin or lower lip which is allowed to grow, and trimmed so as to resemble the beard of a goat. 

GOATFISH:  A fish of the genus Upeneus, inhabiting the Gulf of Mexico. It is allied to the surmullet. 

GOATHERD:  One who tends goats. Spenser. 

GOATISH:  Characteristic of a goat; goatlike. Give your chaste body up to the embraces Of goatish lust. Massinger. -- Goat"ish*ly, adv.  -- Goat"ish*ness, n. 

GOATLIKE:  Like a goat; goatish. 

GOATSKIN:  The skin of a goat, or leather made from it.  -- a.  Made of the skin of a goat. 

GOATSUCKER:  One of several species of insectivorous birds, belonging to Caprimulgus and allied genera, esp. the European species (Caprimulgus Europæus); -- so called from the mistaken notion that it sucks goats. The European species is also goat-milker, goat owl, goat chaffer, fern owl, night hawk, nightjar, night churr, churr-owl, gnat hawk, and dorhawk . 

GOAVES:  Old workings. See Goaf. Raymond. 

GOB:  Same as Goaf. 

GOBANG:  A Japanese game, played on a checkerboard, in which the object of the game is to be the first in placing five pieces, or men, in a row in any direction. 

GOBBET:  A mouthful; a lump; a small piece. Spenser. [He] had broken the stocks to small gobbets. Wyclif. 

GOBBET:  To swallow greedily; to swallow in gobbets. [Low] L'Estrange. 

GOBBETLY:  In pieces. [Obs.] Huloet. 

GOBBLE:  A noise made in the throat. Ducks and geese . . . set up a discordant gobble. Mrs. Gore. 

GOBBLER:  A turkey cock; a bubbling Jock. 

GOBELIN:  Pertaining to tapestry produced in the so-called Gobelin works, which have been maintained by the French Government since 1667. 

GOBEMOUCHE:  Literally, a fly swallower; hence, once who keeps his mouth open; a boor; a silly and credulous person. 

GOBET:  See Gobbet. [Obs.] Chaucer.  GO-BETWEEN Go"-be*tween`, n.  An intermediate agent; a broker; a procurer; -- usually in a disparaging sense. Shak. 

GOBIOID:  Like, or pertaining to, the goby, or the genus Gobius.  -- n.  A gobioid fish. 

GOBLET:  A kind of cup or drinking vessel having a foot or standard, but without a handle. We love not loaded boards and goblets crowned. Denham. 

GOBLIN:  An evil or mischievous spirit; a playful or malicious elf; a frightful phantom; a gnome. To whom the goblin, full of wrath, replied. Milton. 

GOBLINE:  One of the ropes or chains serving as stays for the dolphin striker or the bowsprit; -- called also gobrope and gaubline. 

GOBLINIZE:  To transform into a goblin. [R.] Lowell. 

GOBSTICK:  A stick or device for removing the hook from a fish's gullet.  He . . . wrenched out the hook with the short wooden stick he called a "gobstick." Kipling.  2.  A spoon. [Prov. Eng. or Slang] 

GOBY:  One of several species of small marine fishes of the genus Gobius and allied genera.  GO-BY Go"-by`, n.  A passing without notice; intentional neglect; thrusting away; a shifting off; adieu; as, to give a proposal the go-by. Some songs to which we have given the go-by. Prof. Wilson. 

GOCART:  A framework moving on casters, designed to support children while learning to walk. 

GOD:  Good. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GOD:  To treat as a god; to idolize. [Obs.] Shak. 

GODCHILD:  One for whom a person becomes sponsor at baptism, and whom he promises to see educated as a Christian; a godson or goddaughter. See Godfather. 

GODDAUGHTER:  A female for whom one becomes sponsor at baptism. 

GODE:  Good. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GODELICH:  Goodly. [Obs.] Chaucer.  GO-DEVIL Go"-dev"il, n. (Mach.)  (a) A weight which is dropped into a bore, as of an oil well, to explode a cartridge previously lowered.  (b) A device, as a loosely fitted plug, which is driven through a pipe by the pressure of the contents behind the plug to clear away obstructions.  (c) A rough sled or dray used for dragging logs, hauling stone, etc. [Local, U. S.]  GODE-YEAR Gode"-year, n. Etym: [See Goujere.]  The venereal disease; -- often used as a mild oath. [Obs.] Shak. 

GODFATHER:  A man who becomes sponsor for a child at baptism, and makes himself a surety for its Christian training and instruction. There shall be for every Male-child to be baptized, when they can be had, two Godfathers and one Godmother; and for every Female, one Godfather and two Godmothers; and Parents shall be admitted as Sponsors, if it is desired. Book of Common Prayer (Prot. Episc. Ch., U. S. ). 

GODFATHER:  To act as godfather to; to take under one's fostering care. [R.] Burke.  GOD-FEARING God"-fear`ing, a.  Having a reverential and loving feeling towards God; religious. A brave good-fearing man. Tennyson. 

GODHOOD:  Divine nature or essence; deity; godhead. 

GODILD:  A corruption of God yield, i. e., God reward or bless. Shak. 

GODLESS:  Having, or acknowledging, no God; without reverence for God; impious; wicked.  -- God"less*ly, adv.  -- God"less*ness, n. 

GODLIKE:  Resembling or befitting a god or God; divine; hence, preeminently good; as, godlike virtue.  -- God"like`ness, n. 

GODLILY:  Righteously. H. Wharton. 

GODLINESS:  Careful observance of, or conformity to, the laws of God; the state or quality of being godly; piety. Godliness is profitable unto all things. 1 Tim. iv. 8. 

GODLING:  A diminutive god. Dryden. 

GODLY:  Pious; reverencing God, and his character and laws; obedient to the commands of God from love for, and reverence of, his character; conformed to God's law; devout; righteous; as, a godly life. For godly sorrow worketh repentance. 2 Cor. vii. 10. 

GODLY:  Piously; devoutly; righteously. All that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. 2. Tim. iii. 12. 

GODLYHEAD:  Goodness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GODMOTHER:  A woman who becomes sponsor for a child in baptism. See Godfather 

GODOWN:  A warehouse. [East Indies] 

GODROON:  An ornament produced by notching or carving a rounded molding. 

GODSEND:  Something sent by God; an unexpected acquisiton or piece of good fortune. 

GODSHIP:  The rank or character of a god; deity; divinity; a god or goddess. O'er hills and dales their godships came. Prior. 

GODSIB:  A gossip. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GODSON:  A male for whom one has stood sponsor in baptism. See Godfather. 

GODSPEED:  Success; prosperous journeying; -- a contraction of the phrase, "God speed you." [Written also as two separate words.] Receive him not into house, neither bid him God speed. 2 John 10. 

GODWARD:  Toward God. 2 Cor. iii. 4. 

GODWIT:  One of several species of long-billed, wading birds of the genus Limosa, and family Tringidæ. The European black-tailed godwit (Limosa limosa), the American marbled godwit (L. fedoa), the Hudsonian godwit (L. hæmastica), and others, are valued as game birds. Called also godwin. 

GOEL:  Yellow. [Obs.] Tusser. 

GOELAND:  A white tropical tern (Cygis candida). 

GOEMIN:  A complex mixture of several substances extracted from Irish moss. 

GOEN:  p. p. of Go. [Obs.] 

GOER:  One who, or that which, goes; a runner or walker; as: (a) A foot. [Obs.] Chapman. (b) A horse, considered in reference to his gait; as, a good goer; a safe goer. This antechamber has been filled with comers and goers. Macaulay. 

GOETY:  Invocation of evil spirits; witchcraft. [Obs.] Hallywell. 

GOFF:  A silly clown. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

GOFF:  A game. See Golf. [Scot.] Halliwell. 

GOFFER:  To plait, flute, or crimp. See Gauffer. Clarke. 

GOG:  Haste; ardent desire to go. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

GOGGLE:  To roll the eyes; to stare. And wink and goggle like an owl. Hudibras. 

GOGGLE:  Full and rolling, or staring; -- said of the eyes. The long, sallow vissage, the goggle eyes. Sir W. Scott. 

GOGGLED:  Prominent; staring, as the eye.  GOGGLE-EYE Gog"gle-eye`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) One of two or more species of American fresh-water fishes of the family Centrarchidæ, esp. Chænobryttus antistius, of Lake Michigan and adjacent waters, and Ambloplites rupestris, of the Great Lakes and Mississippi Valley; -- so called from their prominent eyes. (b) The goggler.  GOGGLE-EYED Gog"gle-eyed`, a.  Having prominent and distorted or rolling eyes. Ascham. 

GOGGLER:  A carangoid oceanic fish (Trachurops crumenophthalmus), having very large and prominent eyes; -- called also goggle-eye, big-eyed scad, and cicharra. 

GOGLET:  See Gurglet. 

GOING:  Course of life; behavior; doings; ways. His eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings. Job xxxiv. 21. Going barrel. (Horology) (a) A barrel containing the mainspring, and having teeth on its periphery to drive the train. (b) A device for maintaining a force to drive the train while the timepiece is being wound up.  -- Going forth. (Script.) (a) Outlet; way of exit. "Every going forth of the sanctuary." Ezek. xliv. 5. (b) A limit; a border. "The going forth thereof shall be from the south to Kadesh-barnea." Num. xxxiv. 4.  -- Going out, or Goings out. (Script.) (a) The utmost extremity or limit. "The border shall go down to Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the salt sea." Num. xxxiv. 12. (b) Departure or journeying. "And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys." Num. xxxiii. 2.  -- Goings on, behavior; actions; conduct; -- usually in a bad sense.  GOITER; GOITRE Goi"ter Goi"tre, n. Etym: [F. goître, L. guttur throat, cf. tumidum guttur goiter, gutturosus goitered. See Guttural.] (Med.)  An enlargement of the thyroid gland, on the anterior part of the neck; bronchocele. It is frequently associated with cretinism, and is most common in mountainous regions, especially in certain parts of Switzerland.  GOITERED; GOITRED Goi"tered, Goi"tred, a.  Affected with goiter. 

GOITROUS:  Pertaining to the goiter; affected with the goiter; of the nature of goiter or bronchocele. Let me not be understood as insinuating that the inhabitants in general are either goitrous or idiots. W. Coxe.  GOLD; GOLDE; GOOLDE Gold, Golde, Goolde, n. (Bot.)  An old English name of some yellow flower, -- the marigold (Calendula), according to Dr. Prior, but in Chaucer perhaps the turnsole. 

GOLD:  A metallic element, constituting the most precious metal used as a common commercial medium of exchange. It has a characteristic yellow color, is one of the heaviest substances known (specific gravity 19.32), is soft, and very malleable and ductile. It is quite unalterable by heat, moisture, and most corrosive agents, and therefore well suited for its use in coin and jewelry. Symbol Au (Aurum). Atomic weight 196.7.  Note: Native gold contains usually eight to ten per cent of silver, but often much more. As the amount of silver increases, the color becomes whiter and the specific gravity lower. Gold is very widely disseminated, as in the sands of many rivers, but in very small quantity. It usually occurs in quartz veins (gold quartz), in slate and metamorphic rocks, or in sand and alluvial soil, resulting from the disintegration of such rocks. It also occurs associated with other metallic substances, as in auriferous pyrites, and is combined with tellurium in the minerals petzite, calaverite, sylvanite, etc. Pure gold is too soft for ordinary use, and is hardened by alloying with silver and copper, the latter giving a characteristic reddish tinge. [See Carat.] Gold also finds use in gold foil, in the pigment purple of Cassius, and in the chloride, which is used as a toning agent in photography.  2. Money; riches; wealth. For me, the gold of France did not seduce. Shak.  3. A yellow color, like that of the metal; as, a flower tipped with gold.  4. Figuratively, something precious or pure; as, hearts of gold. Shak. Age of gold. See Golden age, under Golden.  -- Dutch gold, Fool's gold, Gold dust, etc. See under Dutch, Dust, etc.  -- Gold amalgam, a mineral, found in Columbia and California, composed of gold and mercury.  -- Gold beater, one whose occupation is to beat gold into gold leaf.  -- Gold beater's skin, the prepared outside membrane of the large intestine of the ox, used for separating the leaves of metal during the process of gold-beating.  -- Gold beetle (Zoöl.), any small gold-colored beetle of the family Chrysomelidæ; -- called also golden beetle.  -- Gold blocking, printing with gold leaf, as upon a book cover, by means of an engraved block. Knight.  -- Gold cloth. See Cloth of gold, under Cloth.  -- Gold Coast, a part of the coast of Guinea, in West Africa.  -- Gold cradle. (Mining) See Cradle, n., 7.  -- Gold diggings, the places, or region, where gold is found by digging in sand and gravel from which it is separated by washing.  -- Gold end, a fragment of broken gold or jewelry.  -- Gold-end man. (a) A buyer of old gold or jewelry. (b) A goldsmith's apprentice. (c) An itinerant jeweler. "I know him not: he looks like a gold-end man." B. Jonson.  -- Gold fever, a popular mania for gold hunting.  -- Gold field, a region in which are deposits of gold.  -- Gold finder. (a) One who finds gold. (b) One who empties privies. [Obs. & Low] Swift.  -- Gold flower, a composite plant with dry and persistent yellow radiating involucral scales, the Helichrysum Stoechas of Southern Europe. There are many South African species of the same genus.  -- Gold foil, thin sheets of gold, as used by dentists and others. See Gold leaf.  -- Gold knobs or knoppes (Bot.), buttercups.  -- Gold lace, a kind of lace, made of gold thread.  -- Gold latten, a thin plate of gold or gilded metal.  -- Gold leaf, gold beaten into a film of extreme thinness, and used for gilding, etc. It is much thinner than gold foil.  -- Gold lode (Mining), a gold vein.  -- Gold mine, a place where gold is obtained by mining operations, as distinguished from diggings, where it is extracted by washing. Cf. Gold diggings (above).  -- Gold nugget, a lump of gold as found in gold mining or digging; - - called also a pepito.  -- Gold paint. See Gold shell.  -- Gold or Golden, pheasant. (Zoöl.) See under Pheasant.  -- Gold plate, a general name for vessels, dishes, cups, spoons, etc., made of gold.  -- Gold of pleasure. Etym: [Name perhaps translated from Sp. oro-de- alegria.] (Bot.) A plant of the genus Camelina, bearing yellow flowers. C. sativa is sometimes cultivated for the oil of its seeds.  -- Gold shell. (a) A composition of powdered gold or gold leaf, ground up with gum water and spread on shells, for artists' use; -- called also gold paint. (b) (Zoöl.) A bivalve shell (Anomia glabra) of the Atlantic coast; -- called also jingle shell and silver shell. See Anomia.  -- Gold size, a composition used in applying gold leaf.  -- Gold solder, a kind of solder, often containing twelve parts of gold, two of silver, and four of copper.  -- Gold stick, the colonel of a regiment of English lifeguards, who attends his sovereign on state occasions; -- so called from the gilt rod presented to him by the sovereign when he receives his commission as colonel of the regiment. [Eng.] -- Gold thread. (a) A thread formed by twisting flatted gold over a thread of silk, with a wheel and iron bobbins; spun gold. Ure. (b) (Bot.) A small evergreen plant (Coptis trifolia), so called from its fibrous yellow roots. It is common in marshy places in the United States.  -- Gold tissue, a tissue fabric interwoven with gold thread.  -- Gold tooling, the fixing of gold leaf by a hot tool upon book covers, or the ornamental impression so made.  -- Gold washings, places where gold found in gravel is separated from lighter material by washing.  -- Gold worm, a glowworm. [Obs.] -- Jeweler's gold, an alloy containing three parts of gold to one of copper.  -- Mosaic gold. See under Mosaic.  GOLD-BEATEN Gold"-beat`en, a.  Gilded. [Obs.]  GOLD-BEATING Gold"-beat`ing, n.  The art or process of reducing gold to extremely thin leaves, by beating with a hammer. Ure.  GOLD-BOUND Gold"-bound`, a.  Encompassed with gold. 

GOLDCREST:  The European golden-crested kinglet (Regulus cristatus, or R. regulus); -- called also golden-crested wren, and golden wren. The name is also sometimes applied to the American golden-crested kinglet. See Kinglet. 

GOLDCUP:  The cuckoobud. 

GOLDEN:  A duck (Glaucionetta clangula), found in Northern Europe, Asia, and America. The American variety (var. Americana) is larger. Called whistler, garrot, gowdy, pied widgeon, whiteside, curre, and doucker. Barrow's golden-eye of America (G. Islandica) is less common. 

GOLDENLY:  In golden terms or a golden manner; splendidly; delightfully. [Obs.] Shak.  GOLDEN-ROD Gold"en-rod`, n. (Bot.)  A tall herb (Solidago Virga-aurea), bearing yellow flowers in a graceful elongated cluster. The name is common to all the species of the genus Solidago. Golden-rod tree (Bot.), a shrub (Bosea Yervamora), a native of the Canary Isles.  GOLDEN STATE Gold"en State.  California; -- a nickname alluding to its rich gold deposits. 

GOLDFINNY:  One of two or more species of European labroid fishes (Crenilabrus melops, and Ctenolabrus rupestris); -- called also goldsinny, and goldney. 

GOLDFISH:  The yellow-hammer. 

GOLDILOCKS:  Same as Goldylocks.  GOLDIN; GOLDING Gold"in, Gold"ing, n. (Bot.) Etym: [From the golden color of the blossoms.]  A conspicuous yellow flower, commonly the corn marigold (Chrysanthemum segetum). [This word is variously corrupted into gouland, gools, gowan, etc.] 

GOLDLESS:  Destitute of gold. 

GOLDNEY:  See Gilthead. 

GOLDSEED:  Dog's-tail grass. 

GOLDSINNY:  See Goldfinny. 

GOLDTIT:  See Verdin. 

GOLDYLOCKS:  A plant of several species of the genus Chrysocoma; -- so called from the tufts of yellow flowers which terminate the stems; also, the Ranunculus auricomus, a kind of buttercup. 

GOLET:  The gullet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GOLET:  A California trout. See Malma. 

GOLF:  A game played with a small ball and a bat or club crooked at the lower end. He who drives the ball into each of a series of small holes in the ground and brings it into the last hole with the fewest strokes is the winner. [Scot.] Strutt. 

GOLFER:  One who plays golf. [Scot.] 

GOLGOTHA:  Calvary. See the Note under Calvary. 

GOLIARD:  A buffoon in the Middle Ages, who attended rich men's tables to make sport for the guests by ribald stories and songs. 

GOLIARDERY:  The satirical or ribald poetry of the Goliards. Milman.  GOLIATH BEETLE Go*li"ath bee"tle. Etym: [From Goliath, the Philistine giant.] (Zoöl.)  Any species of Goliathus, a genus of very large and handsome African beetles. 

GOLL:  A hand, paw, or claw. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. B. Jonson.  GOLOE-SHOE Go*loe"-shoe`, n.  A galoche. 

GOLORE:  See Galore. 

GOLOSHE:  See Galoche. 

GOLYARDEYS:  A buffoon. See Gollard. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GOMAN:  A husband; a master of a family. [Obs.]  GOMARIST; GOMARITE Go"mar*ist, Go"mar*ite, n. (Eccl.-Hist.)  One of the followers of Francis Gomar or Gomarus, a Dutch disciple of Calvin in the 17th century, who strongly opposed the Arminians. 

GOMBO:  See Gumbo. 

GOME:  A man. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 

GOME:  The black grease on the axle of a cart or wagon wheel; -- called also gorm. See Gorm. [Prov. Eng.] 

GOMER:  A Hebrew measure. See Homer. 

GOMER:  A conical chamber at the breech of the bore in heavy ordnance, especially in mortars; -- named after the inventor. 

GOMMELIN:  See Dextrin. 

GOMPHIASIS:  A disease of the teeth, which causes them to loosen and fall out of their sockets. 

GOMPHOSIS:  A form of union or immovable articulation where a hard part is received into the cavity of a bone, as the teeth into the jaws. 

GOMUTI:  A black, fibrous substance resembling horsehair, obtained from the leafstalks of two kinds of palms, Metroxylon Sagu, and Arenga saccharifera, of the Indian islands. It is used for making cordage. Called also ejoo. 

GON:  imp. & p. p. of Go. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GONAD:  One of the masses of generative tissue primitively alike in both sexes, but giving rise to either an ovary or a testis; a generative gland; a germ gland. Wiedersheim. 

GONAKIE:  An African timber tree (Acacia Adansonii). 

GONANGIUM:  See Gonotheca. 

GONDOLET:  A small gondola. T. Moore. 

GONDOLIER:  A man who rows a gondola. 

GONE:  p. p. of Go. 

GONENESS:  A state of exhaustion; faintness, especially as resulting from hunger. [Colloq. U. S.]  GONFALON; GONFANON Gon"fa*lon, Gon"fa*non, n. Etym: [OE. gonfanoun, OF. gonfanon, F. gonfalon, the same word as F. confalon, name of a religious brotherhood, fr. OHG. gundfano war flag; gund war (used in comp., and akin to AS. gu\'eb) + fano cloth, flag; akin to E. vane; cf. AS. gu\'ebfana. See Vane, and cf. Confalon.]  1. The ensign or standard in use by certain princes or states, such as the mediæval republics of Italy, and in more recent times by the pope.  2. A name popularly given to any flag which hangs from a crosspiece or frame instead of from the staff or the mast itself. Standards and gonfalons, 'twixt van and rear, Stream in the air. Milton. 

GONFALONIER:  He who bears the gonfalon; a standard bearer; as: (a) An officer at Rome who bears the standard of the Church. (b) The chief magistrate of any one of several republics in mediæveal Italy. (c) A Turkish general, and standard keeper. 

GONG:  A privy or jakes. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gong farmer, Gong man, a cleaner of privies. [Obs.] 

GONG:  An instrument, first used in the East, made of an alloy of copper and tin, shaped like a disk with upturned rim, and producing, when struck, a harsh and resounding noise. O'er distant deserts sounds the Tartar gong. Longfellow.  2. (Mach.)  A flat saucerlike bell, rung by striking it with a small hammer which is connected with it by various mechanical devices; a stationary bell, used to sound calls or alarms; -- called also gong bell. Gong metal, an alloy (78 parts of copper, 22 of tin), from which Oriental gongs are made. 

GONGORISM:  An affected elegance or euphuism of style, for which the Spanish poet Gongora y Argote (1561-1627), among others of his time, was noted.  Gongorism, that curious disease of euphuism, that broke out simultaneously in Italy, England, and Spain. The Critic.  The Renaissance riots itself away in Marinism, Gongorism, Euphuism, and the affectations of the Hôtel Rambouillet. J. A. Symonds. 

GONIATITE:  One of an extinct genus of fossil cephalopods, allied to the Ammonites. The earliest forms are found in the Devonian formation, the latest, in the Triassic. 

GONIDIAL:  Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia. 

GONIDIAL:  Of or pertaining to the angles of the mouth; as, a gonidial groove of an actinian. 

GONIDIUM:  A special groove or furrow at one or both angles of the mouth of many Anthozoa. 

GONIDIUM:  A component cell of the yellowish green layer in certain lichens. 

GONIMIA:  Bluish green granules which occur in certain lichens, as Collema, Peltigera, etc., and which replace the more usual gonidia. 

GONIMOUS:  Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia or gonimia, as that part of a lichen which contains the green or chlorophyll-bearing cells. 

GONIOMETER:  An instrument for measuring angles, especially the angles of crystals, or the inclination of planes. Contact, or Hand, goniometer, a goniometer having two movable arms (ab, cd), between which (at ab) the faces of the crystals are placed. These arms turn about a fixed point, which is the center of the graduated circle or semicircle upon which the angle is read off.  -- Reflecting goniometer, an instrument for measuring the angles of crystals by determining through what angular space the crystal must be turned so that two rays reflected from two surfaces successively shall have the same direction; -- called also Wollaston's goniometer, from the inventor.  GONIOMETRIC; GONIOMETRICAL Go`ni*o*met"ric, Go`ni*o*met"ric*al (, a.  Pertaining to, or determined by means of, a goniometer; trigonometric. 

GONIOMETRY:  The art of measuring angles; trigonometry. 

GONOBLASTID:  A reproductive bud of a hydroid; a simple gonophore. 

GONOBLASTIDIUM:  A blastostyle. 

GONOCALYX:  The bell of a sessile gonozooid. 

GONOCOCCUS:  A vegetable microörganism of the genus Micrococcus, occurring in the secretion in gonorrhea. It is believed by some to constitute the cause of this disease. 

GONOPH:  A pickpocket or thief. [Eng. Slang] Dickens. 

GONOPHORE:  A sexual zooid produced as a medusoid bud upon a hydroid, sometimes becoming a free hydromedusa, sometimes remaining attached. See Hydroidea, and Illusts. of Athecata, Campanularian, and Gonosome.  2. (Bot.)  A lengthened receptacle, bearing the stamens and carpels in a conspicuous manner.  GONORRHEA; GONORRHOEA Gon`or*rhe"a, Gon`or*rhoe"a, n. Etym: [L. gonorrhoea, Gr. gonorrhée.] (Med.)  A contagious inflammatory disease of the genitourinary tract, affecting especially the urethra and vagina, and characterized by a mucopurulent discharge, pain in urination, and chordee; clap.  GONORRHEAL; GONORRHOEAL Gon`or*rhe"al, Gon`or*rhoe"al, a. (Med.)  Of or pertaining to gonorrhea; as, gonorrheal rheumatism. 

GONOSOME:  The reproductive zooids of a hydroid colony, collectively. 

GONOTHECA:  A capsule developed on certain hydroids (Thecaphora), inclosing the blastostyle upon which the medusoid buds or gonophores are developed; -- called also gonangium, and teleophore. See Hydroidea, and Illust. of Campanularian. 

GONOZOOID:  A sexual zooid, or medusoid bud of a hydroid; a gonophore. See Hydroidea, and Illust. of Campanularian. 

GONYDIAL:  Pertaining to the gonys of a bird's beak. 

GONYS:  The keel or lower outline of a bird's bill, so far as the mandibular rami are united. 

GOOBER:  A peanut. [Southern U. S.] 

GOOD:  Wares; commodities; chattels; -- formerly used in the singular in a collective sense. In law, a comprehensive name for almost all personal property as distinguished from land or real property. Wharton. He hath made us spend much good. Chaucer. Thy lands and goods Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate Unto the state of Venice. Shak. Dress goods, Dry goods, etc. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Goods engine, a freight locomotive. [Eng.] -- Goods train, a freight train. [Eng.] -- Goods wagon, a freight car [Eng.] See the Note under Car, n., 2. 

GOOD:  Well, -- especially in the phrase as good, with a following as expressed or implied; equally well with as much advantage or as little harm as possible. As good almost kill a man as kill a good book. Milton. As good as, in effect; virtually; the same as. They who counsel ye to such a suppressing, do as good as bid ye suppress yourselves. Milton. 

GOOD:  Farewell; a form of address used at parting. See the last Note under By, prep. Shak.  GOOD-DEN Good`-den", interj. Etym: [Corrupt. of good e'en, for good evening.]  A form of salutation. [Obs.] Shak.  GOOD-FELLOWSHIP Good`-fel"low*ship, n.  Agreeable companionship; companionableness. 

GOODGEON:  Same as Gudgeon, 5.  GOOD-HUMORED Good`-hu"mored, a.  Having a cheerful spirit and demeanor; good-tempered. See Good- natured.  GOOD-HUMOREDLY Good`-hu"mored*ly, adv.  With a cheerful spirit; in a cheerful or good-tempered manner. 

GOODISH:  Rather good than the contrary; not actually bad; tolerable. Goodish pictures in rich frames. Walpole. 

GOODLESS:  Having no goods. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GOODLICH:  Goodly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GOODLINESS:  Beauty of form; grace; elegance; comeliness. Her goodliness was full of harmony to his eyes. Sir P. Sidney.  GOOD-LOOKING Good"-look`ing, a.  Handsome. 

GOODLY:  Excellently. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GOODLY:  Goodness; grace; goodliness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GOODMAN:  Naturally mild in temper; not easily provoked.  Syn.  -- Good-natured, Good-tempered, Good-humored. Good-natured denotes a disposition to please and be pleased. Good-tempered denotes a habit of mind which is not easily ruffied by provocations or other disturbing influences. Good-humored is applied to a spirit full of ease and cheerfulness, as displayed in one's outward deportment and in social intercourse. A good-natured man recommends himself to all by the spirit which governs him. A good-humored man recommends himself particularly as a companion. A good-tempered man is rarely betrayed into anything which can disturb the serenity of the social circle.  GOOD-NATUREDLY Good`-na"tured*ly, adv.  With maldness of temper. 

GOODNESS:  The quality of being good in any of its various senses; excellence; virtue; kindness; benevolence; as, the goodness of timber, of a soil, of food; goodness of character, of disposition, of conduct, etc.  GOOD NOW Good" now".  An exclamation of wonder, surprise, or entreaty. [Obs.] Shak. 

GOODS:  See Good, n., 3. 

GOODSHIP:  Favor; grace. [Obs.] Gower.  GOOD-TEMPERED Good`-tem"pered, a.  Having a good temper; not easily vexed. See Good-natured. 

GOODWIFE:  The mistress of a house. [Archaic] Robynson (More's Utopia). 

GOODY:  An American fish; the lafayette or spot. 

GOODY:  Goodwife; -- a low term of civility or sport.  GOODY-GOODY Good"y-good`y, a.  Mawkishly or weakly good; exhibiting goodness with silliness. [Colloq.] 

GOODYSHIP:  The state or quality of a goody or goodwife [Jocose] Hudibraus.  GOOROO; GURU Goo*roo", Gu*ru" (, n. Etym: [Hind. gur a spiritual parent or teacher, Skr. guru heavy, noble, venerable, teacher. Cf. Grief.]  A spiritual teacher, guide, or confessor amoung the Hindoos. Malcom. 

GOOSANDER:  A species of merganser (M. merganser) of Northern Europe and America; -- called also merganser, dundiver, sawbill, sawneb, shelduck, and sheldrake. See Merganser. 

GOOSEBERRY:  Any thorny shrub of the genus Ribes; also, the edible berries of such shrub. There are several species, of which Ribes Grossularia is the one commonly cultivated.  2. A silly person; a goose cap. Goldsmith. Barbadoes gooseberry, a climbing prickly shrub (Pereskia aculeata) of the West Indies, which bears edible berries resembling gooseberries.  -- Coromandel gooseberry. See Carambola.  -- Gooseberry fool. See lst Fool.  -- Gooseberry worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Dakruma convolutella). It destroys the gooseberry by eating the interior.  GOOSE EGG Goose egg.  In games, a zero; a score or record of naught; -- so named in allusion to the egglike outline of the zero sign 0. Called also duck egg. [Slang] 

GOOSEFISH:  See Angler. 

GOOSEFOOT:  A genus of herbs (Chenopodium) mostly annual weeds; pigweed.  GOOSE-RUMPED Goose"-rumped`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the tail set low and buttocks that fall away sharply from the croup; -- said of certain horses. 

GOOSEWING:  One of the clews or lower corners of a course or a topsail when the middle part or the rest of the sail is furled. 

GOOSISH:  Like a goose; foolish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GOOST:  Ghost; spirit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GOOT:  A goat. [Obs.] Chaucer.  GO-OUT Go"-out`, n.  A sluice in embankments against the sea, for letting out the land waters, when the tide is out. [Written also gowt.] 

GOPHER:  Minnesota; -- a nickname alluding to the abundance of gophers.  GOPHER WOOD Go"pher wood`. Etym: [Heb. gopher.]  A species of wood used in the construction of Noah's ark. Gen. vi. 14. 

GORACCO:  A paste prepared from tobacco, and smoked in hookahs in Western India. 

GORAL:  An Indian goat antelope (Nemorhedus goral), resembling the chamois. 

GORAMY:  Same as Gourami.  GOR-BELLIED Gor"-bel`lied, a.  Bog-bellied. [Obs.]  GOR-BELLY Gor"-bel`ly, n. Etym: [Gore filth, dirt + belly.]  A prominent belly; a big-bellied person. [Obs.] 

GORCE:  A pool of water to keep fish in; a wear. [Obs.] 

GORCOCK:  The moor cock, or red grouse. See Grouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

GORCROW:  The carrion crow; -- called also gercrow. [Prov. Eng.] 

GORD:  An instrument of gaming; a sort of dice. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

GORDIACEA:  A division of nematoid worms, including the hairworms or hair eels (Gordius and Mermis). See Gordius, and Illustration in Appendix. 

GORDIAN:  Pertaining to the Gordiacea. 

GORDIAN:  One of the Gordiacea. 

GORDIUS:  A genus of long, slender, nematoid worms, parasitic in insects until near maturity, when they leave the insect, and live in water, in which they deposit their eggs; -- called also hair eel, hairworm, and hair snake, from the absurd, but common and widely diffused, notion that they are metamorphosed horsehairs. 

GORE:  One of the abatements. It is made of two curved lines, meeting in an acute angle in the fesse point.  Note: It is usually on the sinister side, and of the tincture called tenné. Like the other abatements it is a modern fancy and not actually used. 

GORE:  To pierce or wound, as with a horn; to penetrate with a pointed instrument, as a spear; to stab. The low stumps shall gore His daintly feet. Coleridge. 

GORE:  To cut in a traingular form; to piece with a gore; to provide with a gore; as, to gore an apron. 

GOREBILL:  The garfish. [Prov. Eng.] 

GORFLY:  A dung fly. 

GORGE:  A concave molding; a cavetto. Gwilt.  6. (Naut.)  The groove of a pulley. Gorge circle (Gearing), the outline of the smallest cross section of a hyperboloid of revolution.  -- Gorge hook, two fishhooks, separated by a piece of lead. Knight. 

GORGE:  To eat greedily and to satiety. Milton. 

GORGED:  Bearing a coronet or ring about the neck.  3. Glutted; fed to the full. 

GORGELET:  A small gorget, as of a humming bird. 

GORGEOUS:  Imposing through splendid or various colors; showy; fine; magnificent. Cloud-land, gorgeous land. Coleridge. Gogeous as the sun at midsummer. Shak. -- Gor"geous*ly, adv.  -- Gor"geous*ness, n. 

GORGERIN:  In some columns, that part of the capital between the termination of the shaft and the annulet of the echinus, or the space between two neck moldings; -- called also neck of the capital, and hypotrachelium. See Illust. of Column. 

GORGET:  A crescent-shaped, colored patch on the neck of a bird or mammal. Gorget hummer (Zoöl.), a humming bird of the genus Trochilus. See Rubythroat. 

GORGON:  One of three fabled sisters, Stheno, Euryale, and Medusa, with snaky hair and of terrific aspect, the sight of whom turned the beholder to stone. The name is particularly given to Medusa.  2. Anything very ugly or horrid. Milton.  3. (Zoöl.)  The brindled gnu. See Gnu. 

GORGON:  Like a Gorgon; very ugly or terrific; as, a Gorgon face. Dryden. 

GORGONACEA:  See Gorgoniacea. 

GORGONEAN:  See Gorgonian, 1. 

GORGONEION:  A mask carved in imitation of a Gorgon's head. Elmes. 

GORGONIACEA:  One of the principal divisions of Alcyonaria, including those forms which have a firm and usually branched axis, covered with a porous crust, or c  Note: The axis is commonly horny, but it may be solid and stony (composed of calcium carbonate), as in the red coral of commerce, or it may be in alternating horny and stony joints, as in Isis. See Alcyonaria, Anthozoa, C. 

GORGONIAN:  Pertaining to the Gorgoniacea; as, gorgonian coral. 

GORGONIAN:  One of the Gorgoniacea. 

GORGONIZE:  To have the effect of a Gorgon upon; to turn into stone; to petrify. [R.] 

GORGONZOLA:  A kind of Italian pressed milk cheese; -- so called from a village near Milan. 

GORHEN:  The female of the gorcock. 

GORILLA:  A large, arboreal, anthropoid ape of West Africa. It is larger than a man, and is remarkable for its massive skeleton and powerful muscles, which give it enormous strength. In some respects its anatomy, more than that of any other ape, except the chimpanzee, resembles that of man.  GORING; GORING CLOTH Gor"ing, or Gor"ing cloth` (, n., (Naut.)  A piece of canvas cut obliquely to widen a sail at the foot. 

GORM:  Axle grease. See Gome. [Prov. Eng.] 

GORM:  To daub, as the hands or clothing, with gorm; to daub with anything sticky. [Prov. Eng.] 

GORMA:  The European cormorant. 

GORMAND:  A greedy or ravenous eater; a luxurious feeder; a gourmand. 

GORMAND:  Gluttonous; voracious. Pope. 

GORMANDER:  See Gormand, n. [Obs.] 

GORMANDISM:  Gluttony. 

GORMANDIZE:  To eat greedily; to swallow voraciously; to feed ravenously or like a glutton. Shak. 

GORMANDIZER:  A greedy, voracious eater; a gormand; a glutton.  GOROON SHELL Go*roon" shell`. (Zoöl.)  A large, handsome, marine, univalve shell (Triton femorale). 

GORSE:  Furze. See Furze. The common, overgrown with fern, and rough With prickly gorse. Cowper. Gorse bird (Zoöl.), the European linnet; -- called also gorse hatcher. [Prov. Eng.] -- Gorse chat (Zoöl.), the winchat.  -- Gorse duck, the corncrake; -- called also grass drake, land drake, and corn drake. 

GOSHAWK:  Any large hawk of the genus Astur, of which many species and varieties are known. The European (Astur palumbarius) and the American (A. atricapillus) are the best known species. They are noted for their powerful flight, activity, and courage. The Australian goshawk (A. Novæ-Hollandiæ) is pure white. 

GOSHERD:  One who takes care of geese. 

GOSLET:  One of several species of pygmy geese, of the genus Nettepus. They are about the size of a teal, and inhabit Africa, India, and Australia. 

GOSPEL:  Accordant with, or relating to, the gospel; evangelical; as, gospel righteousness. Bp. Warburton. 

GOSPEL:  To instruct in the gospel. [Obs.] Shak. 

GOSS:  Gorse. [Obs.] Shak. 

GOSSAMERY:  Like gossamer; flimsy. The greatest master of gossamery affectation. De Quincey. 

GOSSAN:  Decomposed rock, usually reddish or ferruginous (owing to oxidized pyrites), forming the upper part of a metallic vein. 

GOSSANIFEROUS:  Containing or producing gossan. 

GOSSAT:  A small British marine fish (Motella tricirrata); -- called also whistler and three-bearded rockling. [Prov. Eng.] 

GOSSIB:  A gossip. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

GOSSIP:  To stand sponsor to. [Obs.] Shak. 

GOSSIPER:  One given to gossip. Beaconsfield. 

GOSSIPREDE:  The relationship between a person and his sponsors. [Obs.] 

GOSSIPY:  Full of, or given to, gossip. 

GOSSOON:  A boy; a servant. [Ireland] 

GOSSYPIUM:  A genus of plants which yield the cotton of the arts. The species are much confused. G. herbaceum is the name given to the common cotton plant, while the long-stapled sea-island cotton is produced by G. Barbadense, a shrubby variety. There are several other kinds besides these. 

GOT:  imp. & p. p. of Get. See Get. 

GOTE:  A channel for water. [Prov. Eng.] Crose. 

GOTER:  a gutter. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GOTH:  One of an ancient Teutonic race, who dwelt between the Elbe and the Vistula in the early part of the Christian era, and who overran and took an important part in subverting the Roman empire.  Note: Under the reign of Valens, they took possession of Dacia (the modern Transylvania and the adjoining regions), and came to be known as Ostrogoths and Visigoths, or East and West Goths; the former inhabiting countries on the Black Sea up to the Danube, and the latter on this river generally. Some of them took possession of the province of Moesia, and hence were called Moesogoths. Others, who made their way to Scandinavia, at a time unknown to history, are sometimes styled Suiogoths.  2. One who is rude or uncivilized; a barbarian; a rude, ignorant person. Chesterfield. 

GOTHAMIST:  A wiseacre; a person deficient in wisdom; -- so called from Gotham, in Nottinghamshire, England, noted for some pleasant blunders. Bp. Morton. 

GOTHIC:  Of or pertaining to a style of architecture with pointed arches, steep roofs, windows large in proportion to the wall spaces, and, generally, great height in proportion to the other dimensions -- prevalent in Western Europe from about 1200 to 1475 a. d. See Illust. of Abacus, and Capital. 

GOTHIC:  The style described in Gothic, a., 2. 

GOTHICIZE:  To make Gothic; to bring back to barbarism.  GOTHITE; GOETHITE Gö"thite, or Goe"thite (, n. Etym: [After the poet Göthe.] (Min.)  A hydrous oxide of iron, occurring in prismatic crystals, also massive, with a fibrous, reniform, or stalactitic structure. The color varies from yellowish to blackish brown. 

GOTTEN:  p. p. of Get. 

GOUACHE:  A method of painting with opaque colors, which have been ground in water and mingled with a preparation of gum; also, a picture thus painted. 

GOUD:  Woad. [Obs.] 

GOUDRON:  a small fascine or fagot, steeped in wax, pitch, and glue, used in various ways, as for igniting buildings or works, or to light ditches and ramparts. Farrow. 

GOUGE:  Soft material lying between the wall of a vein aud the solid vein. Raymond.  5. The act of scooping out with a gouge, or as with a gouge; a groove or cavity scooped out, as with a gouge.  6. Imposition; cheat; fraud; also, an impostor; a cheat; a trickish person. [Slang, U. S.] Gouge bit, a boring bit, shaped like a gouge. 

GOUGER:  See Plum Gouger. 

GOUGESHELL:  A sharp-edged, tubular, marine shell, of the genus Vermetus; also, the pinna. See Vermetus. 

GOUJERE:  The venereal disease. [Obs.] 

GOULAND:  See Golding.  GOULARDS EXTRACT Gou*lard"s" ex"tract". Etym: [Named after the introducer, Thomas Goulard, a French surgeon.] (Med.)  An aqueous solution of the subacetate of lead, used as a lotion in cases of inflammation. Goulard's cerate is a cerate containing this extract. 

GOUR:  See Koulan. 

GOURA:  One of several species of large, crested ground pigeons of the genus Goura, inhabiting New Guinea and adjacent islands. The Queen Victoria pigeon (Goura Victoria) and the crowned pigeon (G. coronata) are among the beat known species. 

GOURAMI:  A very largo East Indian freshwater fish (Osphromenus gorami), extensively reared in artificial ponds in tropical countries, and highly valued as a food fish. Many unsuccessful efforts have been made to introduce it into Southern Europe. [Written also goramy.] 

GOURD:  A fleshy, three-celled, many-seeded fruit, as the melon, pumpkin, cucumber, etc., of the order Cucurbitaceæ; and especially the bottle gourd (Lagenaria vulgaris) which occurs in a great variety of forms, and, when the interior part is removed, serves for bottles, dippers, cups, and other dishes.  2. A dipper or other vessel made from the shell of a gourd; hence, a drinking vessel; a bottle. Chaucer. Bitter gourd, colocynth. 

GOURD:  A false die. See Gord.  GOURD; GOURDE Gourd, Gourde n. Etym: [Sp. gordo large.]  A silver dollar; -- so called in Cuba, Hayti, etc. Simmonds. 

GOURDINESS:  The state of being gourdy.  GOURD TREE Gourd" tree". (Bot.)  A tree (the Crescentia Cujete, or calabash tree) of the West Indies and Central America. 

GOURDWORM:  The fluke of sheep. See Fluke. 

GOURDY:  Swelled in the legs. 

GOURMAND:  A greedy or ravenous eater; a glutton. See Gormand. That great gourmand, fat Apicius B. Jonson. 

GOURMET:  A connoisseur in eating and drinking; an epicure. 

GOURNET:  A fish. See Gurnet. 

GOUT:  A constitutional disease, occurring by paroxysms. It constists in an inflammation of the fibrous and ligamentous parts of the joints, and almost always attacks first the great toe, next the smaller joints, after which, it may attack the greater articulations. It is attended with various sympathettic phenomena, particularly in the digestive organs. It may also attack internal organs, as the stomach, the intestines, etc. Dunglison.  3. A disease of cornstalks. See Corn fly, under Corn. Cout stones. See Chalkstone, n., 2. 

GOUT:  Taste; relish. 

GOUTILY:  In a gouty manner. 

GOUTINESS:  The state of being gouty; gout.  GOUTWEED; GOUTWORT Gout"weed` (, Gout"wort` n. Etym: [So called from having been formerly used in assuaging the pain of the gout.] (Bot.)  A coarse umbelliferous plant of Europe (Ægopodium Podagraria); -- called also bishop's weed, ashweed, and herb gerard. 

GOVE:  A mow; a rick for hay. [Obs.] Tusser. 

GOVERN:  To require to be in a particular case; as, a transitive verb governs a noun in the objective case; or to require (a particular case); as, a transitive verb governs the objective case. 

GOVERN:  To exercise authority; to administer the laws; to have the control. Dryden. 

GOVERNABILITY:  Governableness. 

GOVERNABLE:  Capable of being governed, or subjected to authority; controllable; manageable; obedient. Locke. 

GOVERNABLENESS:  The quality of being governable; manageableness.  GOVERNAL; GOVERNAIL Gov"ern*al, Gov"ern*ail (, n. Etym: [Cf. F. gouvernail helm, rudder, L. gubernaculum.]  Management; mastery. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

GOVERNANCE:  Exercise of authority; control; government; arrangement. Chaucer. J. H. Newman. 

GOVERNANTE:  A governess. Sir W. Scott. 

GOVERNESS:  A female governor; a woman invested with authority to control and direct; especially, one intrusted with the care and instruction of children, -- usually in their homes. 

GOVERNING:  Requiring a particular case. 

GOVERNMENT:  The influence of a word in regard to construction, requiring that another word should be in a particular case. 

GOVERNMENTAL:  Pertaining to government; made by government; as, governmental duties. 

GOVERNOR:  A pilot; a steersman. [R.]  4. (Mach.)  A contrivance applied to steam engines, water wheels, and other machinery, to maintain nearly uniform speed when the resistances and motive force are variable.  Note: The illustration shows a form of governor commonly used for steam engines, in wich a heavy sleeve (a) sliding on a rapidly revolving spindle (b), driven by the engine, is raised or lowered, when the speed varies, by the changing centrifugal force of two balls (c c) to which it is connected by links (d d), the balls being attached to arms (e e) which are jointed to the top of the spindle. The sleeve is connected with the throttle valve or cut-off through a lever (f), and its motion produces a greater supply of steam when the engine runs too slowly and a less supply when too fast. Governor cut- off (Steam Engine), a variable cut-off gear in which the governor acts in such a way as to cause the steam to be cut off from entering the cylinder at points of the stroke dependent upon the engine's speed.  -- Hydraulic governor (Mach.), a governor which is operated by the action of a liquid in flowing; a cataract.  GOVERNOR GENERAL Gov"ern*or gen"er*al.  A governor who has lieutenant or deputy governors under him; as, the governor general of Canada, of India. 

GOVERNORSHIP:  The office of a governor. 

GOWAN:  Decomposed granite. 

GOWANY:  Having, abounding in, or decked with, daisies. [Scot.] Sweeter than gowany glens or new-mown hay. Ramsay. 

GOWD:  Gold; wealth. [Scot.] The man's the gowd for a' that. Burns. 

GOWDEN:  Golden. [Scot.] 

GOWDIE:  See Dragont. [Scot.] 

GOWDNOOK:  The saury pike; -- called also gofnick. 

GOWK:  To make a, booby of one); to stupefy. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

GOWL:  To howl. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

GOWNED:  Dressed in a gown; clad. Gowned in pure white, that fitted to the shape. Tennyson.  GOWNSMAN; GOWNMAN Gowns"man, Gown"man (, n.; pl. -men (-men).  One whose professional habit is a gown, as a divine or lawyer, and particularly a member of an English university; hence, a civilian, in distinction from a soldier. 

GOZZARD:  See Gosherd. [Prov. Eng.] 

GRAAFIAN:  Pertaining to, or discovered by, Regnier de Graaf, a Dutch physician. Graafian follicles or vesicles, small cavities in which the ova are developed in the ovaries of mammals, and by the bursting of which they are discharged. 

GRAAL:  See Grail., a dish. 

GRAB:  A vessel used on the Malabar coast, having two or three masts. 

GRAB:  To gripe suddenly; to seize; to snatch; to clutch. 

GRABBER:  One who seizes or grabs. 

GRACE:  The divine favor toward man; the mercy of God, as distinguished from His justice; also, any benefits His mercy imparts; divine love or pardon; a state of acceptance with God; enjoyment of the divine favor. And if by grace, then is it no more of works. Rom. xi. 6. My grace is sufficicnt for thee. 2 Cor. xii. 9. Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. Rom. v. 20. By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand. Rom. v.2  3. (Law) (a) The prerogative of mercy execised by the executive, as pardon. (b) The same prerogative when exercised in the form of equitable relief through chancery.  4. Fortune; luck; -- used commonly with hard or sorry when it means misfortune. [Obs.] Chaucer.  5. Inherent excellence; any endowment or characteristic fitted to win favor or confer pleasure or benefit. He is complete in feature and in mind. With all good grace to grace a gentleman. Shak. I have formerly given the general character of Mr. Addison's style and manner as natural and unaffected, easy and polite, and full of those graces which a flowery imagination diffuses over writing. Blair.  6. Beauty, physical, intellectual, or moral; loveliness; commonly, easy elegance of manners; perfection of form. Grace in women gains the affections sooner, and secures them longer, than any thing else. Hazlitt. I shall answer and thank you again For the gift and the grace of the gift. Longfellow.  7. pl. (Myth.)  Graceful and beautiful females, sister goddesses, represented by ancient writers as the attendants sometimes of Apollo but oftener of Venus. They were commonly mentioned as three in number; namely, Aglaia, Euphrosyne, and Thalia, and were regarded as the inspirers of the qualities which give attractiveness to wisdom, love, and social intercourse. The Graces love to weave the rose. Moore. The Loves delighted, and the Graces played. Prior.  8. The title of a duke, a duchess, or an archbishop, and formerly of the king of England. How fares your Grace ! Shak.  9. (Commonly pl.)  Thanks. [Obs.] Yielding graces and thankings to their lord Melibeus. Chaucer.  10. A petition for grace; a blessing asked, or thanks rendered, before or after a meal.  11. pl. (Mus.)  Ornamental notes or short passages, either introduced by the performer, or indicated by the composer, in which case the notation signs are called grace notes, appeggiaturas, turns, etc.  12. (Eng. Universities)  An act, vote, or decree of the government of the institution; a degree or privilege conferred by such vote or decree. Walton.  13. pl.  A play designed to promote or display grace of motion. It consists in throwing a small hoop from one player to another, by means of two sticks in the hands of each. Called also grace hoop or hoops. Act of grace. See under Act.  -- Day of grace (Theol.), the time of probation, when the offer of divine forgiveness is made and may be accepted. That day of grace fleets fast away. I. Watts. -- Days of grace (Com.), the days immediately following the day when a bill or note becomes due, which days are allowed to the debtor or payer to make payment in. In Great Britain and the United States, the days of grace are three, but in some countries more, the usages of merchants being different.  -- Good graces, favor; friendship.  -- Grace cup. (a) A cup or vessel in which a health is drunk after grace. (b) A health drunk after grace has been said. The grace cup follows to his sovereign's health. Hing. -- Grace drink, a drink taken on rising from the table; a grace cup. To [Queen Margaret, of Scotland] . . . we owe the custom of the grace drink, she having established it as a rule at her table, that whosoever staid till grace was said was rewarded with a bumper. Encyc. Brit. -- Grace hoop, a hoop used in playing graces. See Grace, n., 13.  -- Grace note (Mus.), an appoggiatura. See Appoggiatura, and def. 11 above.  -- Grace stroke, a finishing stoke or touch; a coup de grace.  -- Means of grace, means of securing knowledge of God, or favor with God, as the preaching of the gospel, etc.  -- To do grace, to reflect credit upon. Content to do the profession some grace. Shak. -- To say grace, to render thanks before or after a meal.  -- With a good grace, in a fit and proper manner grace fully; graciously.  -- With a bad grace, in a forced, reluctant, or perfunctory manner; ungraciously. What might have been done with a good grace would at least be done with a bad grace. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Elegance; comeliness; charm; favor; kindness; mercy.  -- Grace, Mercy. These words, though often interchanged, have each a distinctive and peculiar meaning. Grace, in the strict sense of the term, is spontaneous favor to the guilty or undeserving; mercy is kindness or compassion to the suffering or condemned. It was the grace of God that opened a way for the exercise of mercy toward men. See Elegance. 

GRACED:  Endowed with grace; beautiful; full of graces; honorable. Shak. 

GRACEFUL:  Displaying grace or beauty in form or action; elegant; easy; agreeable in appearance; as, a graceful walk, deportment, speaker, air, act, speech. High o'er the rest in arms the graceful Turnus rode. Dryden. -- Grace"ful*ly, adv. Grace"ful*ness, n. 

GRACELESS:  Slender; thin. [Obs.] Bailey. 

GRACILITY:  State of being gracilent; slenderness. Milman. "Youthful gracility." W. D. Howells. 

GRACIOUSNESS:  Quality of being gracious. 

GRADATE:  To bring to a certain strength or grade of concentration; as, to gradate a saline solution. 

GRADATION:  A gradual passing from one tint to another or from a darker to a lighter shade, as in painting or drawing.  6. (Mus.)  A diatonic ascending or descending succession of chords. 

GRADATION:  To form with gradations. [R.] 

GRADATIONAL:  By regular steps or gradations; of or pertaining to gradation. 

GRADATORY:  Suitable for walking; -- said of the limbs of an animal when adapted for walking on land. 

GRADATORY:  A series of steps from a cloister into a church. 

GRADE:  The result of crossing a native stock with some better breed. If the crossbreed have more than three fourths of the better blood, it is called high grade. At grade, on the same level; -- said of the crossing of a railroad with another railroad or a highway, when they are on the same level at the point of crossing.  -- Down grade, a descent, as on a graded railroad.  -- Up grade, an ascent, as on a graded railroad.  -- Equating for grades. See under Equate.  -- Grade crossing, a crossing at grade. 

GRADE:  To cross with some better breed; to improve the blood of. 

GRADELY:  Decent; orderly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  -- adv.  Decently; in order. [Prov. Eng.] 

GRADER:  1. One who grades, or that by means of which grading is done or facilitate.  2. A vehicle used for levelling earth, esp. one with a plow blade suspended from the center, used specifically for grading roads. 

GRADIENT:  Any member like a step, as the raised back of an altar or the like; a set raised over another. "The gradines of the amphitheeater." Layard. 

GRADINE:  A toothed chised by sculptors. 

GRADING:  The act or method of arranging in or by grade, or of bringing, as the surface of land or a road, to the desired level or grade. 

GRADINO:  A step or raised shelf, as above a sideboard or altar. Cf. Superaltar, and Gradin. 

GRADUAL:  Proceeding by steps or degrees; advancing, step by step, as in ascent or descent or from one state to another; regularly progressive; slow; as, a gradual increase of knowledge; a gradual decline. Creatures animate with gradual life Of growth, sense, reason, all summed up in man. Milton. 

GRADUALITY:  The state of being gradual; gradualness. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

GRADUALNESS:  The quality or state of being gradual; regular progression or gradation; slowness. The gradualness of this movement. M. Arnold. The gradualness of growth is a characteristic which strikes the simplest observer. H. Drummond. 

GRADUATE:  To bring to a certain degree of consistency, by evaporation, as a fluid. Graduating engine, a dividing engine. See Dividing engine, under Dividing. 

GRADUATE:  To taper, as the tail of certain birds.  3. To take a degree in a college or university; to become a graduate; to receive a diploma. He graduated at Oxford. Latham. He was brought to their bar and asked where he had graduated. Macaulay. 

GRADUATE:  Arrangei by successive steps or degrees; graduated. Beginning with the genus, passing through all the graduate and subordinate stages. Tatham. 

GRADUATED:  Tapered; -- said of a bird's tail when the outer feathers are shortest, and the others successively longer. Graduated tube, bottle, cap, or glass, a vessel, usually of glass, having horizontal marks upon its sides, with figures, to indicate the amount of the contents at the several levels.  -- Graduated spring (Railroads), a combination of metallic and rubber springs. 

GRADUATESHIP:  State of being a graduate. Milton. 

GRADUS:  A dictionary of prosody, designed as an aid in writing Greek or Latin poetry. He set to work . . . without gradus or other help. T. Hughes. 

GRAF:  A German title of nobility, equivalent to earl in English, or count in French. See Earl. 

GRAFF:  A steward; an overseer. [A prince] is nothing but a servant, overseer, or graff, and not the head, which is a title belonging only to Christ. John Knox. 

GRAFF:  See Graft. 

GRAFFAGE:  The scarp of a ditch or moat. "To clean the graffages." Miss Mitford. 

GRAFFER:  a notary or scrivener. Bowvier. 

GRAFFITI:  Inscriptions, figure drawings, etc., found on the walls of ancient sepulchers or ruins, as in the Catacombs, or at Pompeii. 

GRAFFITO:  Production of decorative designs by scratching them through a surface of layer plaster, glazing, etc., revealing a different- colored ground; also, pottery or ware so decorated; -- chiefly used attributively. 

GRAFT:  To implant a portion of (living flesh or akin) in a lesion so as to form an organic union.  3.  To join (one thing) to another as if by grafting, so as to bring about a close union. And graft my love immortal on thy fame ! Pope.  4.  (Naut.)  To cover, as a ring bolt, block strap, splicing, etc., with a weaving of small cord or rope-yarns. 

GRAFT:  To insert scions from one tree, or kind of tree, etc., into another; to practice grafting. 

GRAFTAGE:  The science of grafting, including the various methods of practice and details of operation. 

GRAFTER:  An instrument by which grafting is facilitated.  3. The original tree from which a scion has been taken for grafting upon another tree. Shak. 

GRAFTING:  The act or method of weaving a cover for a ring, rope end, etc.  3. (Surg.)  The transplanting of a portion of flesh or skin to a denuded surface; autoplasty.  4. (Carp.)  A scarfing or endwise attachment of one timber to another. Cleft grafting (Hort.) a method of grafting in which the scion is placed in a cleft or slit in the stock or stump made by sawing off a branch, usually in such a manaer that its bark evenly joins that of the stock.  -- Crown, or Rind, grafting, a method of grafting which the alburnum and inner bark are separated, and between them is inserted the lower end of the scion cut slantwise.  -- Saddle grafting, a mode of grafting in which a deep cleft is made in the end of the scion by two sloping cuts, and the end of the stock is made wedge-shaped to fit the cleft in the scion, which is placed upon it saddlewise.  -- Side grafting, a mode of grafting in which the scion, cut quite across very obliquely, so as to give it the form of a slender wedge, is thrust down inside of the bark of the stock or stem into which it is inserted, the cut side of the scion being next the wood of the stock.  -- Skin grafting. (Surg.) See Autoplasty.  -- Splice grafting (Hort.), a method of grafting by cutting the ends of the scion and stock completely across and obliquely, in such a manner that the sections are of the same shape, then lapping the ends so that the one cut surface exactly fits the other, and securing them by tying or otherwise.  -- Whip grafting, tongue grafting, the same as splice grafting, except that a cleft or slit is made in the end of both scion and stock, in the direction of the grain and in the middle of the sloping surface, forming a kind of tongue, so that when put together, the tongue of each is inserted in the slit of the other.  -- Grafting scissors, a surgeon's scissors, used in rhinoplastic operations, etc.  -- Grafting tool. (a) Any tool used in grafting. (b) A very strong curved spade used in digging canals.  -- Grafting wax, a composition of rosin, beeswax tallow, etc., used in binding up the wounds of newly grafted trees.  GRAHAM BREAD Gra"ham bread". Etym: [From Sylvester Graham, a lecturer on dietetics.]  Bread made of unbolted wheat flour. [U. S.] Bartlett. 

GRAHAMITE:  One who follows the dietetic system of Graham. [U. S.] 

GRAIL:  A book of offices in the Roman Catholic Church; a gradual. [Obs.] T. Warton. Such as antiphonals, missals, grails, processionals, etc. Strype. 

GRAIL:  A broad, open dish; a chalice; -- only used of the Holy Grail.  Note: The Holy Grail, according to some legends of the Middle Ages, was the cup used by our Savior in dispensing the wine at the last supper; and according to others, the platter on which the paschal lamb was served at the last Passover observed by our Lord. This cup, according to the legend, if appoached by any but a perfectly pure and holy person, would be borne away and vanish from the sight. The quest of the Holy Grail was to be undertaken only by a knight who was perfectly chaste in thought, word, and act. 

GRAIL:  Small particles of earth; gravel. [Obs.] Lying down upon the sandy grail. Spenser. 

GRAIL:  One of the small feathers of a hawk. 

GRAILLE:  A halfround single-cut file or fioat, having one curved face and one straight face, -- used by comb makers. Knight. 

GRAIN:  See Groan. [Obs.] 

GRAIN:  The remains of grain, etc., after brewing or distillation; hence, any residuum. Also called draff.  11. (Bot.)  A rounded prominence on the back of a sepal, as in the common dock. See Grained, a., 4.  12. Temper; natural disposition; inclination. [Obs.] Brothers . . . not united in grain. Hayward.  13. A sort of spice, the grain of paradise. [Obs.] He cheweth grain and licorice, To smellen sweet. Chaucer. Against the grain, against or across the direction of the fibers; hence, against one's wishes or tastes; unwillingly; unpleasantly; reluctantly; with difficulty. Swift.Saintsbury.-- A grain of allowance, a slight indulgence or latitude a small allowance.  -- Grain binder, an attachment to a harvester for binding the grain into sheaves.  -- Grain colors, dyes made from the coccus or kermes in sect.  -- Grain leather. (a) Dressed horse hides. (b) Goat, seal, and other skins blacked on the grain side for women's shoes, etc.  -- Grain moth (Zoöl.), one of several small moths, of the family Tineidæ (as Tinea granella and Butalis cereAlella), whose larvæ devour grain in storehouses.  -- Grain side (Leather), the side of a skin or hide from which the hair has been removed; -- opposed to flesh side.  -- Grains of paradise, the seeds of a species of amomum.  -- grain tin, crystalline tin ore metallic tin smelted with charcoal.  -- Grain weevil (Zoöl.), a small red weevil (Sitophilus granarius), which destroys stored wheat and othar grain, by eating out the interior.  -- Grain worm (Zoöl.), the larva of the grain moth. See grain moth, above.  -- In grain, of a fast color; deeply seated; fixed; innate; genuine. "Anguish in grain." Herbert.-- To dye in grain, to dye of a fast color by means of the coccus or kermes grain [see Grain, n., 5]; hence, to dye firmly; also, to dye in the wool, or in the raw material. See under Dye. The red roses flush up in her cheeks . . . Likce crimson dyed in grain. Spenser. -- To go against the grain of (a person), to be repugnant to; to vex, irritate, mortify, or trouble. 

GRAIN:  An iron first speak or harpoon, having four or more barbed points.  3. A blade of a sword, knife, etc.  4. (Founding)  A thin piece of metal, used in a mold to steady a core. 

GRAINED:  Having tubercles or grainlike processes, as the petals or sepals of some flowers. 

GRAINFIELD:  A field where grain is grown. 

GRAINING:  The process of separating soap from spent lye, as with salt. 

GRAINING:  A small European fresh-water fish (Leuciscus vulgaris); - called also dobule, and dace. 

GRAINY:  Resembling grains; granular. 

GRAIP:  A dungfork. [Scot.] Burns. 

GRAITH:  See Greith. Chaucer. 

GRAITH:  Furniture; apparatus or accouterments for work, traveling, war, etc. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

GRAKLE:  See Grackle. 

GRALLAE:  An order of birds which formerly included all the waders. By later writers it is usually restricted to the sandpipers, plovers, and allied forms; -- called also Grallatores. 

GRALLATORES:  See Grallæ.  GRALLATORIAL; GRALLATORY Gral`la*to"ri*al, Gral"la*to*ry, a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Grallatores, or waders. 

GRALLIC:  Pertaining to the Grallæ. 

GRALLINE:  Of or pertaining to the Grallæ. 

GRALLOCH:  Offal of a deer.  -- v. t.  To remove the offal from (a deer).  -GRAM -gram. Etym: [Gr. a thing drawn or written, a letter, fr. gra`fein to draw, write. See Graphic.]  A suffix indicating something drawn or written, a drawing, writing; -- as, monogram, telegram, chronogram. 

GRAM:  Angry. [Obs.] Havelok, the Dane. 

GRAM:  The East Indian name of the chick-pea (Cicer arietinum) and its seeds; also, other similar seeds there used for food.  GRAM; GRAMME Gram, Gramme, n. Etym: [F. gramme, from Gr. that which is written, a letter, a small weight, fr. to write. See Graphic.]  The unit of weight in the metric system. It was intended to be exactly, and is very nearly, equivalent to the weight in a vacuum of one cubic centimeter of pure water at its maximum density. It is equal to 15.432 grains. See Grain, n., 4. Gram degree, or Gramme degree (Physics), a unit of heat, being the amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of one gram of pure water one degree centigrade.  -- Gram equivalent (Electrolysis), that quantity of the metal which will replace one gram of hydrogen.  GRAMA GRASS Gra"ma grass`. Etym: [Sp. grama a sort of grass.] (Bot.)  The name of several kinds of pasture grasses found in the Western United States, esp. the Bouteloua oligostachya. 

GRAMARYE:  Necromancy; magic. Sir W. Scott. 

GRAMASHES:  Gaiters reaching to the knee; leggings. Strong gramashes, or leggings of thick gray cloth. Sir W. Scott. 

GRAMERCY:  A word formerly used to express thankfulness, with surprise; many thanks. Gramercy, Mammon, said the gentle knight. Spenser. 

GRAMINACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the grasses; gramineous; as, graminaceous plants. 

GRAMINEAL:  Gramineous. 

GRAMINEOUS:  Like, Or pertaining to, grass. See Grass, n., 2. 

GRAMINIFOLIOUS:  Bearing leaves resembling those of grass. 

GRAMINIVOROUS:  Feeding or subsisting on grass, and the like food; -- said of horses, cattle, and other animals. 

GRAMMALOGUE:  Literally, a letter word; a word represented by a logogram; as, it, represented by |, that is, t. pitman. 

GRAMMAR:  To discourse according to the rules of grammar; to use grammar. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

GRAMMARIANISM:  The principles, practices, or peculiarities of grammarians. [R.] 

GRAMMARLESS:  Without grammar. 

GRAMMATES:  Rudiments; first principles, as of grammar. [Obs.] Ford. 

GRAMMATIC:  Grammatical. 

GRAMMATICASTER:  A petty grammarian; a grammatical pedant or pretender. My noble Neophite, my little grammaticaster. B. Jonson. 

GRAMMATICATION:  A principle of grammar; a grammatical rule. [Obs.] Dalgarno. 

GRAMMATICISM:  A point or principle of grammar. Abp. Leighton. 

GRAMMATICIZE:  To render grammatical. Fuller. 

GRAMMATIST:  A petty grammarian. [R] Tooke. 

GRAMME:  Same as Gram the weight.  GRAMME MACHINE Gramme" ma*chine". (Elec.)  A kind of dynamo-electric machine; -- so named from its French inventor, M. Gramme. Knight. 

GRAMOPHONE:  An instrument for recording, preserving, and reproducing sounds, the record being a tracing of a phonautograph etched in some solid material. Reproduction  is accomplished by means of a system attached to an elastic diaphragm. 

GRAMPUS:  A toothed delphinoid cetacean, of the genus Grampus, esp. G. griseus of Europe and America, which is valued for its oil. It grows to be fifteen to twenty feet long; its color is gray with white streaks. Called also cowfish. The California grampus is G. Stearnsii.  2. A kind of tongs used in a bloomery. [U.S.]  GRANADE; GRANADO Gra*nade", Gra*na"do, n.  See Grenade. 

GRANADILLA:  The fruit of certain species of passion flower (esp. Passiflora quadrangularis) found in Brazil and the West Indies. It is as large as a child's head, and is a good dessert fruit. The fruit of Passiflora edulis is used for flavoring ices. 

GRANARY:  A storehouse or repository for grain, esp. after it is thrashed or husked; a cornbouse; also (Fig.), a region fertile in grain. The exhaustless granary of a world. Thomson. 

GRANATE:  See Garnet. 

GRANATIN:  Mannite; -- so called because found in the pomegranate. 

GRANATITE:  See Staurolite. 

GRANDAM:  An old woman; specifically, a grandmother. Shak. 

GRANDAUNT:  The aunt of one's father or mother. 

GRANDCHILD:  A son's or daughter's child; a child in the second degree of descent. 

GRANDDAUGHTER:  The daughter of one's son or daughter.  GRAND-DUCAL Grand"-du"cal, a.  Of or pertaining to a grand duke. H. James. 

GRANDEE:  A man of elevated rank or station; a nobleman. In Spain, a nobleman of the first rank, who may be covered in the king's presence. 

GRANDEESHIP:  The rank or estate of a grandee; lordship. H. Swinburne. 

GRANDEUR:  The state or quality of being grand; vastness; greatness; splendor; magnificence; stateliness; sublimity; dignity; elevation of thought or expression; nobility of action. Nor doth this grandeur and majestic show Of luxury . . . allure mine eye. Milton.  Syn.  -- Sublimity; majesty; stateliness; augustness; loftiness. See Sublimity. 

GRANDEVITY:  Great age; long life. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

GRANDEVOUS:  Of great age; aged; longlived. [R.] Bailey. 

GRANDFATHER:  A father's or mother's father; an ancestor in the next degree above the father or mother in lineal ascent. Grandfather longlegs. (Zoöl.) See Dady longlegs. 

GRANDFATHERLY:  Like a grandfather in age or manner; kind; benignant; indulgent. He was a grandfatherly sort of personage. Hawthorne. 

GRANDIFIC:  Making great. [R.] Bailey. 

GRANDILOQUENCE:  The use of lofty words or phrases; bombast; -- usually in a bad sense. The sin of grandiloquence or tall talking. Thackeray, 

GRANDILOQUENT:  Speaking in a lofty style; pompous; bombastic. 

GRANDILOQUOUS:  Grandiloquent. 

GRANDINOUS:  Consisting of hail; abounding in hail. [R.] Bailey. 

GRANDIOSITY:  The state or quality of being grandiose, 

GRANDITY:  Grandness. [Obs.] Camden. 

GRANDLY:  In a grand manner.  GRANDMA; GRANDMAMMA Grand"ma", Grand"mam*ma", n.  A grand mother.  GRAND MERCY Grand" mer"cy.  See Gramercy. [Obs.] 

GRANDMOTHER:  The mother of one's father or mother. 

GRANDMOTHERLY:  Like a grandmother in age or manner; kind; indulgent. 

GRANDNEPHEW:  The grandson of one's brother or sister. 

GRANDNESS:  Grandeur. Wollaston. 

GRANDNIECE:  The granddaughter of one's brother or sister.  GRANDPA; GRANDPAPA Grand"pa", Grand"pa*pa", n.  A grandfather. 

GRANDSIRE:  Specifically, a grandfather; more generally, any ancestor. 

GRANDSON:  A son's or daughter's son. 

GRANDUNCLE:  father's or mother's uncle. 

GRANE:  See Groan. [Obs.] 

GRANGERISM:  The practice of illustrating a particular book by engravings collected from other books. 

GRANGERITE:  One who collects illustrations from various books for the decoration of one book. 

GRANGERIZE:  To collect (illustrations from books) for decoration of other books. G. A. Sala.  GRANGER RAILROADS; GRANGER ROADS Gran"ger railroads, or Granger roads. (Finance)  Certain railroads whose traffic largely consists in carrying the produce of farmers or grangers; -- specifically applied to the Chicago & Alton; Chicago, Burlington & Quincey; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul; and Chicago & Northwestern, railroads. [U. S.].  GRANGER STOCKS; GRANGER SHARES Granger stocks or shares.  Stocks or shares of the granger railroads. 

GRANIFEROUS:  Bearing grain, or seeds like grain. Humble. 

GRANIFORM:  Formed like of corn. 

GRANILLA:  Small grains or dust of cochineal or the coccus insect. 

GRANITE:  A crystalline, granular rock, consisting of quartz, feldspar, and mica, and usually of a whitish, grayish, or flesh-red color. It differs from gneiss in not having the mica in planes, and therefor in being destitute of a schistose structure.  Note: Varieties containing hornblende are common. See also the Note under Mica. Gneissoid granite, granite in which the mica has traces of a regular arrangement.  -- Graphic granite, granite consisting of quartz and feldspar without mica, and having the quartz crystals so arranged in the transverse section like oriental characters.  -- Porphyritic granite, granite containing feldspar in distinct crystals.  -- Hornblende granite, or Syenitic granite, granite containing hornblende as well as mica, or, according to some authorities hornblende replacing the mica.  -- Granite ware. (a) A kind of stoneware. (b) A Kind of ironware, coated with an enamel resembling granite.  GRANITE STATE Gran"ite State.  New Hampshire; -- a nickname alluding to its mountains, which are chiefly of granite.  GRANITE STATE Gran"ite State.  New Hampshire; -- a nickname alluding to its mountains, which are chiefly of granite. [Webster 1913 Suppl.] 

GRANITICAL:  Granitic. 

GRANITIFICATION:  The act or the process of forming into granite. Humble. 

GRANITIFORM:  Resembling granite in structure or shape. 

GRANITOID:  Resembling granite in granular appearance; as, granitoid gneiss; a granitoid pavement. 

GRANIVOROUS:  Eating grain; feeding or subsisting on seeds; as, granivorous birds. Gay. 

GRANNAM:  A grandam. [Colloq.] 

GRANNY:  A grandmother; a grandam; familiarly, an old woman. Granny's bend, or Granny's knot (Naut.), a kind of insecure knot or hitch; a reef knot crossed the wrong way. 

GRANOLITHIC:  A kind of hard artificial stone, used for pavements. 

GRANT:  To assent; to consent. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GRANT:  A transfer of property by deed or writing; especially, au appropriation or conveyance made by the government; as, a grant of land or of money; also, the deed or writing by which the transfer is made.  Note: Formerly, in English law, the term was specifically applied to transfrrs of incorporeal hereditaments, expectant estates, and letters patent from government and such is its present application in some of the United States. But now, in England the usual mode of transferring realty is by grant; and so, in some of the United States, the term grant is applied to conveyances of every kind of real property. Bouvier. Burrill. 

GRANTABLE:  Capable of being granted. 

GRANTEE:  The person to whom a grant or conveyance is made. His grace will not survive the poor grantee he despises. Burke. 

GRANTER:  One who grants. 

GRANTOR:  The person by whom a grant or conveyance is made. 

GRANULAR:  Consisting of, or resembling, grains; as, a granular substance. Granular limestone, crystalline limestone, or marble, having a granular structure. 

GRANULARLY:  In a granular form. 

GRANULARY:  Granular. 

GRANULATE:  To collect or be formed into grains; as, cane juice granulates into sugar.  GRANULATE; GRANULATED Gran"u*late, Gran"u*la`ted, a.  1. Consisting of, or resembling, grains; crystallized in grains; granular; as, granulated sugar.  2. Having numerous small elevations, as shagreen. Granulated steel, a variety of steel made by a particular process beginning with the granulation of pig iron. 

GRANULE:  A little grain a small particle; a pellet. 

GRANULIFEROUS:  Full of granulations. 

GRANULIFORM:  Having a granular structure; granular; as, granuliform limestone. 

GRANULITE:  A whitish, granular rock, consisting of feldspar and quartz intimately mixed; -- sometimes called whitestone, and leptynite. 

GRANULOSE:  The main constituent of the starch grain or granule, in distinction from the framework of cellulose. Unlike cellulose, it is colored blue by iodine, and is converted into dextrin and sugar by boiling acids and amylolytic ferments. 

GRANULOUS:  Full of grains; abounding with granular substances; granular. 

GRAPE:  A well-known edible berry growing in pendent clusters or bunches on the grapevine. The berries are smooth-skinned, have a juicy pulp, and are cultivated in great quantities for table use and for making wine and raisins.  2. (Bot.)  The plant which bears this fruit; the grapevine.  3. (Man.)  A mangy tumor on the leg of a horse.  4. (Mil.)  Grapeshot. Grape borer. (Zoöl.) See Vine borer.  -- Grape curculio (Zoöl.), a minute black weevil (Craponius inæqualis) which in the larval state eats the interior of grapes.  -- Grape flower, or Grape hyacinth (Bot.), a liliaceous plant (Muscari racemosum) with small blue globular flowers in a dense raceme.  -- Grape fungus (Bot.), a fungus (Oidium Tuckeri) on grapevines; vine mildew.  -- Grape hopper (Zoöl.), a Small yellow and red hemipterous insect, often very injurious to the leaves of the grapevine.  -- Grape moth (Zoöl.), a small moth (Eudemis botrana), which in the larval state eats the interior of grapes, and often binds them together with silk.  -- Grape of a cannon, the cascabel or knob at the breech.  -- Grape sugar. See Glucose.  -- Grape worm (Zoöl.), the larva of the grape moth.  -- Soar grapes, things which persons affect to despise because they can not possess them; -- in allusion to  GRAPE FRUIT Grape" fruit`.  The shaddock. 

GRAPELESS:  Wanting grapes or the flavor of grapes. 

GRAPERY:  A building or inclosure used for the cultivation of grapes. 

GRAPESHOT:  A cluster, usually nine in number, of small iron balls, put together by means of cast-iron circular plates at top and bottom, with two rings, and a central connecting rod, in order to be used as a charge for a cannon. Formerly grapeshot were inclosed in canvas bags. 

GRAPESTONE:  A seed of the grape. 

GRAPEVINE:  A vine or climbing shrub, of the genus Vitis, having small green flowers and lobed leaves, and bearing the fruit called grapes.  Note: The common grapevine of the Old World is Vitis vinifera, and is a native of Central Asia. Another variety is that yielding small seedless grapes commonly called Zante currants. The northern Fox grape of the United States is the V. Labrusca, from which, by cultivation, has come the Isabella variety. The southern Fox grape, or Muscadine, is the V. vulpina. The Frost grape is V. cordifolia, which has very fragrant flowers, and ripens after the early frosts.  -GRAPH -graph ( Etym: [From Gr. gra`fein to write. See Graphic.]  A suffix signifying something written, a writing; also, a writer; as autograph, crystograph, telegraph, photograph.  GRAPHIC; GRAPHICAL Graph"ic, Graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. graphicus, Gr. graphique. See Graft.]  1. Of or pertaining to the arts of painting and drawing.  2. Of or pertaining to the art of writing.  3. Written or engraved; formed of letters or lines. The finger of God hath left an inscription upon all his works, not graphical, or composed of letters. Sir T. Browne.  4. Well delineated; clearly and vividly described.  5. Having the faculty of, or characterized by, clear and impressive description; vivid; as, a gruphic writer. Graphic algebra, a branch of algebra in which, the properties of equations are treated by the use of curves and straight lines.  -- Graphic arts, a name given to those fine arts which pertain to the representation on a fiat surface of natural objects; as distinguished from music, etc., and also from sculpture.  -- Graphic formula. (Chem.) See under Formula.  -- Graphic granite. See under Granite.  -- Graphic method, the method of scientific analysis or investigation, in which the relations or laws involved in tabular numbers are represented to the eye by means of curves or other figures; as the daily changes of weather by means of curves, the abscissas of which represent the hours of the day, and the ordinates the corresponding degrees of temperature.  -- Graphical statics (Math.), a branch of statics, in which the magnitude, direction, and position of forces are represented by straight lines -- Graphic tellurium. See Sylvanite. 

GRAPHICALLY:  In a graphic manner; vividly.  GRAPHICNESS; GRAPHICALNESS Graph"ic*ness, Graph"ic*al*ness, n.  The quality or state of being graphic. 

GRAPHICS:  The art or the science of drawing; esp. of drawing according to mathematical rules, as in perspective, projection, and the like. 

GRAPHISCOPE:  See Graphoscope. 

GRAPHITE:  Native carbon in hexagonal crystals, also foliated or granular massive, of black color and metallic luster, and so soft as to leave a trace on paper. It is used for pencils (improperly called lead pencils), for crucibles, and as a lubricator, etc. Often called plumbago or black lead. Graphite battery (Elec.), a voltaic battery consisting of zinc and carbon in sulphuric acid, or other exciting liquid. 

GRAPHITIC:  Pertaining to, containing, derived from, or resembling, graphite. Graphitic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, so called because obtained by the oxidation of graphite; -- usually called mellitic acid.  -- Graphitic carbon, in iron or steel, that portion of the carbon which is present as graphite. Raymond.  GRAPHITOID; GRAPHITOIDAL Graph"i*toid, Graph"i*toid"al, a.  Resembling graphite or plumbago. 

GRAPHOLITE:  Any species of slate suitable to be written on. 

GRAPHOLOGY:  The art of judging of a person's character, disposition, and aptitude from his handwriting. 

GRAPHOPHONE:  A kind of photograph. 

GRAPHOSCOPE:  An optical instrument for magnifying engravings, photographs, etc., usually having one large lens and two smaller ones. 

GRAPHOTYPE:  A process for producing a design upon a surface in relief so that it can be printed from. Prepared chalk or oxide of zinc is pressed upon a smooth plate by a hydraulic press, and the design is drawn upon this in a peculiar ink which hardens the surface wherever it is applied. The surface is then carefully rubbed or brushed, leaving the lines in relief.  -GRAPHY -gra*phy. Etym: [Gr. Graphic.]  A suffix denoting the art of writing or describing; also, the writing or description itself; a treatise; as, calligraphy, biography, geography. 

GRAPNEL:  A small anchor, with four or five flukes or claws, used to hold boats or small vessels; hence, any instrument designed to grapple or hold; a grappling iron; a grab; -- written also grapline, and crapnel. 

GRAPPLE:  To use a grapple; to contend in close fight; to attach one's self as if by a grapple, as in wrestling; to close; to seize one another. To grapple with, to enter into contest with, resolutely and courageously. And in my standard bear the arms of York, To grapple with the house of Lancaster. Shak. 

GRAPPLE:  A grappling iron. The iron hooks and grapples keen. Spenser. Grapple plant (Bot.), a South African herb (Herpagophytum leptocarpum) having the woody fruits armed with long hooked or barbed thorns by which they adhere to cattle, causing intense annoyance.  -- Grapple shot (Life-saving Service), a projectile, to which are attached hinged claws to catch in a ship's rigging or to hold in the ground; -- called also anchor shot. 

GRAPPLEMENT:  A grappling; close fight or embrace. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GRAPSOID:  Pertaining to the genus Grapsus or the family Grapsidæ.  -- n.  A grapsoid crab. 

GRAPTOLITE:  One of numerous species of slender and delicate fossils, of the genus Graptolites and allied genera, found in the Silurian rocks. They belong to an extinct group (Graptolithina) supposed to be hydroids. 

GRAPTOLITIC:  Of or pertaining to graptolites; containing graptolites; as, a graptolitic slate. 

GRAPY:  Composed of, or resembling, grapes. The grapy clusters. Addison. 

GRASP:  To effect a grasp; to make the motion of grasping; to clutch; to struggle; to strive. As one that grasped And tugged for life and was by strength subdued. Shak. To grasp at, to catch at; to try to seize; as, Alexander grasped at universal empire, 

GRASPABLE:  Capable of being grasped. 

GRASPER:  One who grasps or seizes; one who catches or holds. 

GRASPLESS:  Without a grasp; relaxed. From my graspless hand Drop friendship's precious pearls. Coleridge. 

GRASS:  An endogenous plant having simple leaves, a stem generally jointed and tubular, the husks or glumes in pairs, and the seed single.  Note: This definition includes wheat, rye, oats, barley, etc., and excludes clover and some other plants which are commonly called by the name of grass. The grasses form a numerous family of plants.  3. The season of fresh grass; spring. [Colloq.] Two years old next grass. Lathsm.  4. Metaphorically used for what is transitory. Surely the people is grass. Is. xl. 7.  Note: The following list includes most of the grasses of the United States of special interest, except cereals. Many of these terms will be found with definitions in the Vocabulary. See Illustrations in Appendix. Barnyard grass, for hay. South. Panicum Grus-galli. Bent, pasture and hay. Agrostis, several species. Bermuda grass, pasture. South. Cynodon Dactylon. Black bent. Same as Switch grass (below). Blue bent, hay. North and West. Andropogon provincialis. Blue grass, pasture. Poa compressa. Blue joint, hay. Northwest. Aqropyrum glaucum. Buffalo grass, grazing. Rocky Mts., etc. (a) Buchloë dectyloides. (b) Same as Grama grass (below). Bunch grass, grazing. Far West. Eriocoma, Festuca, Stips, etc. Chess, or Cheat, a weed. Bromus secalinus, etc. Couch grass. Same as Quick grass (below). Crab grass, (a) Hay, in South. A weed, in North. Panicum sanguinale. (b) Pasture and hay. South. Eleusine Indica. Darnel (a) Bearded, a noxious weed. Lolium temulentum. (b) Common. Same as Rye grass (below). Drop seed, fair for forage and hay. Muhlenbergia, several species. English grass. Same as Redtop (below). Fowl meadow grass. (a) Pasture and hay. Poa serotina. (b) Hay, on moist land. Gryceria nervata. Gama grass, cut fodder. South. Tripsacum dactyloides. Grama grass, grazing. West and Pacific slope. Bouteloua oligostachya, etc. Great bunch grass, pasture and hay. Far West. Festuca scabrella. Guinea grass, hay. South. Panicum jumentorum. Herd's grass, in New England Timothy, in Pennsylvania and South Redtop. Indian grass. Same as Wood grass (below). Italian rye grass, forage and hay. Lolium Italicum. Johnson grass, grazing aud hay. South and Southwest. Sorghum Halepense. Kentucky blue grass, pasture. Poa pratensis. Lyme grass, coarse hay. South. Elymus, several species. Manna grass, pasture and hay. Glyceria, several species. Meadow fescue, pasture and hay. Festuca elatior. Meadow foxtail, pasture, hay, lawn. North. Alopecurus pratensis. Meadow grass, pasture, hay, lawn. Poa, several species. Mesquite, or Muskit grass. Same as Grama grass (above). Nimble Will, a kind of drop seed. Muhlenbergia diffsa. Orchard grass, pasture and hay. Dactylis glomerata. Porcupine grass, troublesome to sheep. Northwest. Stipa spartea. Quaking grass, ornamental. Briza media and maxima. Quitch, or Quick, grass, etc., a weed. Agropyrum repens. Ray grass. Same as Rye grass (below). Redtop, pasture and hay. Agrostis vulgaris. Red-topped buffalo grass, forage. Northwest. Poa tenuifolia. Reed canary grass, of slight value. Phalaris arundinacea. Reed meadow grass, hay. North. Glyceria aquatica. Ribbon grass, a striped leaved form of Reed canary grass. Rye grass, pasture, hay. Lolium perenne, var. Seneca grass, fragrant basket work, etc. North. Hierochloa borealis. Sesame grass. Same as Gama grass (above). Sheep's fescue, sheep pasture, native in Northern Europe and Asia. Festuca ovina. Small reed grass, meadow pasture and hay. North. Deyeuxia Canadensis. Spear grass, Same as Meadow grass (above). Squirrel-tail grass, troublesome to animals. Seacoast and Northwest. Hordeum jubatum. Switch grass, hay, cut young. Panicum virgatum. Timothy, cut young, the best of hay. North. Phleum pratense. Velvet grass, hay on poor soil. South. Holcus lanatus. Vernal grass, pasture, hay, lawn. Anthoxanthum odoratum. Wire grass, valuable in pastures. Poa compressa. Wood grass, Indian grass, hay. Chrysopogon nutans.  Note: Many plants are popularly called grasses which are not true grasses botanically considered, such as black grass, goose grass, star grass, etc. Black grass, a kind of small rush (Juncus Gerardi), growing in salt marshes, used for making salt hay.  -- Grass of the Andes, an oat grass, the Arrhenatherum avenaceum of Europe.-- Grass of Parnassus, a plant of the genus Parnassia growing in wet ground. The European species is P. palustris; in the United States there are several species.  -- Grass bass (Zoöl.), the calico bass.  -- Grass bird, the dunlin.  -- Grass cloth, a cloth woven from the tough fibers of the grass- cloth plant.  -- Grass-cloth plant, a perennial herb of the Nettle family (Boehmeria nivea or Urtica nivea), which grows in Sumatra, China, and Assam, whose inner bark has fine and strong fibers suited for textile purposes.  -- Grass finch. (Zoöl.) (a) A common American sparrow (Poöcætes gramineus); -- called also vesper sparrow and bay-winged bunting. (b) Any Australian finch, of the genus Poëphila, of which several species are known.  -- Grass lamb, a lamb suckled by a dam running on pasture land and giving rich milk.-- Grass land, land kept in grass and not tilled.  -- Grass moth (Zoöl.), one of many small moths of the genus Crambus, found in grass.  -- Grass oil, a fragrant essential volatile oil, obtained in India from grasses of the genus Andropogon, etc.; -- used in perfumery under the name of citronella, ginger grass oil, lemon grass oil, essence of verbena etc.  -- Grass owl (Zoöl.), a South African owl (Strix Capensis).  -- Grass parrakeet (Zoöl.), any of several species of Australian parrots, of the genus Euphemia; -- also applied to the zebra parrakeet.  -- Grass plover (Zoöl.), the upland or field plover.  -- Grass poly (Bot.), a species of willowwort (Lythrum Hyssopifolia). Johnson.  -- Crass quit (Zoöl.), one of several tropical American finches of the genus Euetheia. The males have most of the head and chest black and often marked with yellow.-- Grass snake. (Zoöl.) (a) The common English, or ringed, snake (Tropidonotus natrix). (b) The common green snake of the Northern United States. See Green snake, under Green.  -- Grass snipe (Zoöl.), the pectoral sandpiper (Tringa maculata) -- called also jacksnipe in America.  -- Grass spider (Zoöl.), a common spider (Agelena nævia), which spins flat webs on grass, conspicuous when covered with dew.  -- Grass sponge (Zoöl.), an inferior kind of commercial sponge from Florida and the Bahamas.  -- Grass table. (Arch.) See Earth table, under Earth.  -- Grass vetch (Bot.), a vetch (Lathyrus Nissolia), with narrow grasslike leaves.  -- Grass widow. Etym: [Cf. Prov. R. an unmarried mother, G. strohwittwe a mock widow, Sw. gräsenka a grass widow.] (a) An unmarried woman who is a mother. [Obs.] (b) A woman separated from her husband by abandonment or prolonged absence; a woman living apart from her husband. [Slang.] -- Grass wrack (Bot.) eelgrass.  -- To bring to grass (Mining.), to raise, as ore, to the surface of the ground.  -- To put to grass, To put out to grass, to put out to graze a season, as cattle. 

GRASS:  To produce grass. [R.] Tusser. 

GRASSATION:  A wandering about with evil intentions; a rioting. [Obs. & R.] Feltham.  GRASS-GREEN Grass"-green`, a.  1. Green with grass.  2. Of the color of grass; clear and vivid green.  GRASS-GROWN Grass"-grown`, a.  Overgrown with grass; as, a grass-grown road. 

GRASSHOPPER:  Any jumping, orthopterous insect, of the families Acrididæ and Locustidæ. The species and genera are very numerous. The former family includes the Western grasshopper or locust (Caloptenus spretus), noted for the great extent of its ravages in the region beyond the Mississippi. In the Eastern United States the red-legged (Caloptenus femurrubrum and C. atlanis) are closely related species, but their ravages are less important. They are closely related to the migratory locusts of the Old World. See Locust.  Note: The meadow or green grasshoppers belong to the Locustidæ. They have long antennæ, large ovipositors, and stridulating organs at the base of the wings in the male. The European great green grasshopper (Locusta viridissima) belongs to this family. The common American green species mostly belong to Xiphidium, Orchelimum, and Conocephalus.  2. In ordinary square or upright pianos of London make, the escapement lever or jack, so made that it can be taken out and replaced with the key; -- called also the hopper. Grove. Grasshopper engine, a steam engine having a working beam with its fulcrum at one end, the steam cylinder at the other end, and the connecting rod at an intermediate point.  -- Grasshopper lobster (Zoöl.) a young lobster. [Local, U. S.] -- Grasshopper warbler (Zoöl.), cricket bird. 

GRASSINESS:  The state of abounding with grass; a grassy state. 

GRASSLESS:  Destitute of grass. 

GRASSPLOT:  A plot or space covered with grass; a lawn. "Here on this grassplot." Shak.  GRASS TREE Grass" tree". (Bot.) (a) An Australian plant of the genus Xanthorrhoea, having a thick trunk crowned with a dense tuft of pendulous, grasslike leaves, from the center of which arises a long stem, bearing at its summit a dense flower spike looking somewhat like a large cat-tail. These plants are often called "blackboys" from the large trunks denuded and blackened by fire. They yield two kinds of fragrant resin, called Botany-bay gum, and Gum Acaroides. (b) A similar Australian plant (Kingia australis). 

GRATE:  Serving to gratify; agreeable. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 

GRATE:  To furnish with grates; to protect with a grating or crossbars; as, to grate a window. 

GRATED:  Furnished with a grate or grating; as, grated windows. 

GRATER:  One who, or that which, grates; especially, an instrument or utensil with a rough, indented surface, for rubbing off small particles of any substance; as a grater for nutmegs. 

GRATICULATION:  The division of a design or draught into squares, in order the more easily to reproduce it in larger or smaller dimensions. 

GRATICULE:  A design or draught which has been divided into squares, in order to reproduce it in other dimensions. 

GRATIFIED:  Pleased; indulged according to desire.  Syn.  -- Glad; pleased. See Glad. 

GRATIFIER:  One who gratifies or pleases. 

GRATIN:  The brown crust formed upon a gratinated dish; also, dish itself, as crusts bread, game, or poultry. 

GRATINATE:  To cook, as macaroni, in a savory juice or sauce until juice is absorbed and a crisp surface forms. 

GRATING:  That grates; making a harsh sound; harsh.  -- Grat"ing*ly, adv. 

GRATING:  A harsh sound caused by attrition. 

GRATIOLIN:  One of the essential principles of the hedge hyssop (Gratiola officinalis). 

GRATIS:  For nothing; without fee or recompense; freely; gratuitously. 

GRATITUDE:  The state of being grateful; warm and friendly feeling toward a benefactor; kindness awakened by a favor received; thankfulness. The debt immense of endless gratitude. Milton. 

GRATULATE:  To salute with declaration of joy; to congratulate. [R.] Shak. 

GRATULATE:  Worthy of gratulation. [Obs.] There's more behind that is more gratulate. Shak. 

GRATULATION:  The act of gratulating or felicitating; congratulation. I shall turn my wishes into gratulations. South. 

GRATULATORY:  Expressing gratulation or joy; congratulatory. The usual groundwork of such gratulatory odes. Bp. Horsley. 

GRAUNT:  See Grant. Chaucer. 

GRAUWACKE:  Graywacke. 

GRAVAMEN:  The grievance complained of; the substantial cause of the action; also, in general, the ground or essence of a complaint. Bouvier.  -GRAVE -grave.  A final syllable signifying a ruler, as in landgrave, margrave. See Margrave. 

GRAVE:  (Naut.) To clean, as a vessel's bottom, of barnacles, grass, etc., and pay it over with pitch; -- so called because graves or greaves was formerly used for this purpose. 

GRAVE:  To write or delineate on hard substances, by means of incised lines; to practice engraving. 

GRAVE:  An excavation in the earth as a place of burial; also, any place of interment; a tomb; a sepulcher. Hence: Death; destruction. He bad lain in the grave four days. John xi. 17. Grave wax, adipocere. 

GRAVECLOTHES:  The clothes or dress in which the dead are interred. 

GRAVEDIGGER:  See Burying beetle, under Bury, v. t. 

GRAVEL:  A deposit of small calculous concretions in the kidneys and the urinary or gall bladder; also, the disease of which they are a symptom. Gravel powder, a coarse gunpowder; pebble powder. 

GRAVELESS:  Without a grave; unburied.  GRAVELING; GRAVELLING Grav"el*ing, or Grav"el*ling, n.  1. The act of covering with gravel.  2. A layer or coating of gravel (on a path, etc.).  GRAVELING; GRAVELLING Grav"el*ing, or Grav"el*ling, n. (Zoöl.)  A salmon one or two years old, before it has gone to sea. 

GRAVELLINESS:  State of being gravelly. 

GRAVELLY:  Abounding with gravel; consisting of gravel; as, a gravelly soil.  GRAVEL-STONE Grav"el-stone", n.  A pebble, or small fragment of stone; a calculus. 

GRAVELY:  In a grave manner. 

GRAVEN:  Carved. Graven image, an idol; an object of worship carved from wood, stone, etc. "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image." Ex. xx. 4. 

GRAVENESS:  The quality of being grave. His sables and his weeds, Importing health and graveness. Shak. 

GRAVENSTEIN:  A kind of fall apple, marked with streaks of deep red and orange, and of excellent flavor and quality. 

GRAVEOLENCE:  A strong and offensive smell; rancidity. [R.] Bailey. 

GRAVEOLENT:  Having a rank smell. [R.] Boyle. 

GRAVERY:  The act, process, or art, of graving or carving; engraving. Either of picture or gravery and embossing. Holland. 

GRAVES:  The sediment of melted tallow. Same as Greaves.  GRAVES' DISEASE Graves"' dis*ease". Etym: [So called after Dr. Graves, of Dublin.]  Same as Basedow's disease. 

GRAVESTONE:  A stone laid over, or erected near, a grave, usually with an inscription, to preserve the memory of the dead; a tombstone. 

GRAVEYARD:  A yard or inclosure for the interment of the dead; a cemetery. 

GRAVIC:  Pertaining to, or causing, gravitation; as, gravic forces; gravic attraction. [R.] 

GRAVID:  Being with child; heavy with young; pregnant; fruitful; as, a gravid uterus; gravid piety. " His gravid associate." Sir T. Herbert. 

GRAVIDATED:  Made pregnant; big. [Obs.] Barrow. 

GRAVIDATION:  Gravidity. [Obs.] 

GRAVIDITY:  The state of being gravidated; pregnancy. [R.] 

GRAVIGRADE:  Slow-paced.  -- n.  One of the pachyderms. 

GRAVIMETER:  (Physics) An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of bodies. 

GRAVIMETRIC:  Of or pertaining to measurement by weight; measured by weight.  -- Grav"i*met"ric*al*ly, adv. Gravimetric analysis (Chem.), analysis in which the amounts of the coastituents are determined by weight; -- in distinction from volumetric analysis. 

GRAVING:  The act of cleaning a ship's bottom. Graving dock. (Naut.) See under Dock. 

GRAVING:  The act or art of carving figures in hard substances, esp. by incision or in intaglio.  2. That which is graved or carved. [R.] Skillful to . . . grave any manner of graving. 2 Chron. ii. 14.  3. Impression, as upon the mind or heart. New gravings upon their souls. Eikon Basilike 

GRAVITATE:  To obey the law of gravitation; to exert a force Or pressure, or tend to move, under the influence of gravitation; to tend in any direction or toward any object. Why does this apple fall to the ground Because all bodies gravitate toward each other. Sir W. Hamilton. Politicians who naturally gravitate towards the stronger party. Macaulay. 

GRAVITATIONAL:  Of or pertaining to the force of gravity; as, gravitational units. 

GRAVITATIVE:  Causing to gravitate; tending to a center. Coleridge. 

GRAVITY:  The tendency of a mass of matter toward a center of attraction; esp., the tendency of a body toward the center of the earth; terrestrial gravitation.  5. (Mus.)  Lowness of tone; -- opposed to acuteness. Center of gravity See under Center.  -- Gravity battery, See Battery, n., 4.  -- Specific gravity, the ratio of the weight of a body to the weight of an equal volume of some other body taken as the standard or unit. This standard is usually water for solids and liquids, and air for gases. Thus, 19, the specific gravity of gold, expresses the fact that, bulk for bulk, gold is nineteen times as heavy as water. 

GRAYBEARD:  An old man. Shak. 

GRAYFLY:  The trumpet fly. Milton. 

GRAYHOUND:  See Greyhound. 

GRAYISH:  Somewhat gray. 

GRAYLAG:  The common wild gray goose (Anser anser) of Europe, believed to be the wild form of the domestic goose. See Illust. of Goose. 

GRAYLING:  A European fish (Thymallus vulgaris), allied to the trout, but having a very broad dorsal fin; -- called also umber. It inhabits cold mountain streams, and is valued as a game fish. And here and there a lusty trout, And here and there a grayling. Tennyson.  2. (Zoöl.)  An American fish of the genus Thymallus, having similar habits to the above; one species (T. Ontariensis), inhabits several streams in Michigan; another (T. montanus), is found in the Yellowstone region. 

GRAYNESS:  The quality of being gray. 

GRAYSTONE:  A grayish or greenish compact rock, composed of feldspar and augite, and allied to basalt. 

GRAYWACKE:  A conglomerate or grit rock, consisting of rounded pebbles sand firmly united together.  Note: This term, derved from the grauwacke of German miners, was formerly applied in geology to different grits and slates of the Silurian series; but it is now seldom used. 

GRAZER:  One that grazes; a creature which feeds on growing grass or herbage. The cackling goose, Close grazer, finds wherewith to ease her want. J. Philips. 

GRAZIER:  One who pastures cattle, and rears them for market. The inhabitants be rather . . . graziers than plowmen. Stow. 

GRAZIOSO:  Gracefully; smoothly; elegantly. 

GRE:  See Gree, a step. [Obs.] 

GRE:  See Gree, good will. [Obs.] 

GREASE:  An inflammation of a horse's heels, suspending the ordinary greasy secretion of the part, and producing dryness and scurfiness, followed by cracks, ulceration, and fungous excrescences. Grease bush. (Bot.) Same as Grease wood (below).  -- Grease moth (Zoöl.), a pyralid moth (Aglossa pinguinalis) whose larva eats greasy cloth, etc.  -- Grease wood (Bot.), a scraggy, stunted, and somewhat prickly shrub (Sarcobatus vermiculatus) of the Spinach family, very abundant in alkaline valleys from the upper Missouri to California. The name is also applied to other plants of the same family, as several species of Atriplex and Obione. 

GREASE:  A cock or cup containing grease, to serve as a lubricator. 

GREASILY:  , adv.  1. In a greasy manner.  2. In a gross or indelicate manner. [Obs.] You talk greasily; your lips grow foul. Shak. 

GREASINESS:  The quality or state of being greasy, oiliness; unctuousness; grossness. 

GREASY:  Affected with the disease called grease; as, the heels of a horse. See Grease, n., 2. 

GREAT:  The whole.; the gross; as, a contract to build a ship by the great.  GREAT-BELLIED Great"-bel`lied, a.  Having a great belly, bigbellied; pregnant; teeming. Shak. 

GREATCOAT:  An overcoat. 

GREATEN:  To make great; to aggrandize; to cause to increase in size; to expand. [R.] A minister's [business] is to greaten and exalt [his king]. Ken. 

GREATEN:  To become large; to dilate. [R.] My blue eyes greatening in the looking-glass. Mrs. Browning.  GREAT-GRANDCHILD Great"-grand"child`, n.  The child of one's grandson or granddaughter.  GREAT-GRANDDAUGHTER Great"-grand"daugh`ter, n. Etym: [See Great, 10.]  A daughter of one's grandson or granddaughter.  GREAT-GRANDFATHER Great"-grand"fa`ther, n. Etym: [See Great, 10.]  The father of one's grandfather or grandmother.  GREAT-GRANDMOTHER Great"-grand"moth`er, n.  The mother of one's grandfather or grandmother.  GREAT-GRANDSON Great"-grand"son`, n. Etym: [See Great, 10.]  A son of one's grandson or granddaughter.  GREAT-HEARTED Great"-heart`ed, a.  1. High-spirited; fearless. [Obs.] Clarendon.  2. Generous; magnanimous; noble.  GREAT-HEARTEDNESS Great"-heart`ed*ness, n.  The quality of being greathearted; high-mindedness; magnanimity. 

GREATNESS:  Broadway, in New York City, in the neighborhood chiefly occupied by theaters, as from about 30th Street about 50th Street; -- so called from its brilliant illumination at night. 

GREAVE:  A grove. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GREAVE:  Armor for the leg below the knee; -- usually in the plural. 

GREAVE:  To clean (a ship's bottom); to grave. 

GREAVES:  The sediment of melted tallow. It is made into cakes for dogs' food. In Scotland it is called cracklings. [Written also graves.] 

GREBE:  One of several swimming birds or divers, of the genus Colymbus (formerly Podiceps), aud allied genera, found in the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia. They have strong, sharp bills, and lobate toes. 

GRECIAN:  Of or pertaining to Greece; Greek. Grecian bend, among women, an affected carriage of the body, the upper part being inclined forward. [Collog.] -- Grecian fire. See Greek fire, under Greek. 

GRECISM:  An idiom of the Greek language; a Hellenism. Addison. 

GRECIZE:  To conform to the Greek custom, especially in speech.  GRECO-ROMAN Gre"co-Ro"man, a.  Having characteristics that are partly Greek and partly Roman; as, Greco-Roman architecture. 

GRECQUE:  An ornament supposed to be of Greek origin, esp. a fret or meander, 

GREE:  To agree. [Obs.] Fuller. 

GREE:  A step. 

GREECE:  See Gree a step. [Obs.] 

GREED:  An eager desire or longing; greediness; as, a greed of gain. 

GREEDILY:  , adv. In a greedy manner. 

GREEDINESS:  The quality of being greedy; vehement and selfish desire. Fox in stealth, wolf in greediness. Shak.  Syn.-- Ravenousness; voracity; eagerness; avidity. 

GREEDY:  A glutton. [Low] Todd.  GREEGREE; GRIGRI Gree"gree", Gri"gri", n.  An African talisman or Gri'gri' charm. A greegree man, an African magician or fetich priest. 

GREEK:  Of or pertaining to Greece or the Greeks; Grecian. Greek calends. See under Calends.  -- Greek Church (Eccl. Hist.), the Eastern Church; that part of Christendom which separated from the Roman or Western Church in the ninth century. It comprises the great bulk of the Christian population of Russia (of which this is the established church), Greece, Moldavia, and Wallachia. The Greek Church is governed by patriarchs and is called also the Byzantine Church.  -- Greek cross. See Illust. (10) Of Cross.  -- Greek Empire. See Byzantine Empire.  -- Greek fire, a combustible composition which burns under water, the constituents of which are supposed to be asphalt, with niter and sulphur. Ure.  -- Greek rose, the flower campion. 

GREEK:  A time that will never come, as the Greeks had no calends. 

GREEKESS:  A female Greek. [R.] 

GREEKISH:  Peculiar to Greece. 

GREEKLING:  A little Greek, or one of small esteem or pretensions. B. Jonson. 

GREEN:  To make green. Great spring before Greened all the year. Thomson. 

GREEN:  To become or grow green. Tennyson. By greening slope and singing flood. Whittier. 

GREENBACK:  One of the legal tender notes of the United States; -- first issued in 1862, and having the devices on the back printed with green ink, to prevent alterations and counterfeits. 

GREENBACKER:  One of those who supported greenback or paper money, and opposed the resumption of specie payments. [Colloq. U. S.] 

GREENBONE:  A plant of the genus Genista (G. tinctoria); dyer's weed; -- called also greenweed. 

GREENCLOTH:  A board or court of justice formerly held in the counting house of the British sovereign's household, composed of the lord steward and his officers, and having cognizance of matters of justice in the household, with power to correct offenders and keep the peace within the verge of the palace, which extends two hundred yards beyond the gatees. 

GREENERY:  Green plants; verdure. A pretty little one-storied abode, so rural, so smothered in greenery. J. Ingelow.  GREEN-EYED Green"-eyed, a.  1. Having green eyes.  2. Seeing everything through a medium which discolors or distorts. "Green-eyed jealousy." Shak. 

GREENFISH:  See Bluefish, and Pollock. 

GREENGAGE:  A kind of plum of medium size, roundish shape, greenish flesh, and delicious flavor. It is called in France Reine Claude, after the queen of Francis I. See Gage. 

GREENGILL:  An oyster which has the gills tinged with a green pigment, said to be due to an abnormal condition of the blood. 

GREENGROCER:  A retailer of vegetables or fruits in their fresh or green state. 

GREENHEAD:  A state of greenness; verdancy. Chaucer. 

GREENHORN:  A raw, inexperienced person; one easily imposed upon. W. Irving. 

GREENHOUSE:  A house in which tender plants are cultivated and sheltered from the weather. 

GREENING:  A greenish apple, of several varieties, among which the Rhode Island greening is the best known for its fine-grained acid flesh and its excellent keeping quality. 

GREENISH:  Somewhat green; having a tinge of green; as, a greenish yellow.  -- Green"ish*ness, n. 

GREENLANDER:  A native of Greenland.  GREEN-LEEK Green"-leek`, n. (Zoöl.)  An Australian parrakeet (Polytelis Barrabandi); -- called also the scarlet-breasted parrot. 

GREENLET:  l. (Zoöl.) One of numerous species of small American singing birds, of the genus Vireo, as the solitary, or blue-headed (Vireo solitarius); the brotherly-love (V. Philadelphicus); the warbling greenlet (V. gilvus); the yellow-throated greenlet (V. flavifrons) and others. See Vireo.  2. (Zoöl,) Any species of Cyclorhis, a genus of tropical American birds allied to the tits. 

GREENLY:  With a green color; newly; freshly, immaturely.  -- a.  Of a green color. [Obs.] 

GREENOCKITE:  Native cadmium sulphide, a mineral occurring in yellow hexagonal crystals, also as an earthy incrustation. 

GREENROOM:  The retiring room of actors and actresses in a theater. 

GREENSAND:  A variety of sandstone, usually imperfectly consolidated, consisting largely of glauconite, a silicate of iron and potash of a green color, mixed with sand and a trace of phosphate of lime.  Note: Greensand is often called marl, because it is a useful fertilizer. The greensand beds of the American Cretaceous belong mostly to the Upper Cretaceous. 

GREENSHANK:  A European sandpiper or snipe (Totanus canescens); -- called also greater plover.  GREEN-STALL Green"-stall`, n.  A stall at which greens and fresh vegetables are exposed for sale. 

GREENSTONE:  A name formerly applied rather loosely to certain dark-colored igneous rocks, including diorite, diabase, etc. 

GREENSWARD:  Turf green with grass. 

GREENTH:  The state or quality of being green; verdure. [R.] The greenth of summer. G. Eliot. 

GREENWEED:  See Greenbroom. 

GREENWOOD:  A forest as it appears is spring and summer. 

GREENWOOD:  Pertaining to a greenwood; as, a greenwood shade. Dryden. 

GREET:  Great. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GREET:  To weep; to cry; to lament. [Obs. or Scot.] [Written also greit.] Spenser. 

GREET:  Mourning. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GREET:  To meet and give salutations. There greet in silence, as the dead are wont, And sleep in peace. Shak. 

GREET:  Greeting. [Obs.] F. Beaumont. 

GREETER:  One who greets or salutes another. 

GREETER:  One who weeps or mourns. [Obs.] 

GREETING:  Expression of kindness or joy; salutation at meeting; a compliment from one absent. Write to him . . . gentle adieus and greetings. Shak.  Syn.  -- Salutation; salute; compliment. 

GREEVE:  See Grieve, an overseer. 

GREEZE:  A step. See Gree, a step. [Obs.] The top of the ladder, or first greeze, is this. Latimer. 

GREFFIER:  A registrar or recorder; a notary. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

GREGAL:  Pertaining to, or like, a flock. For this gregal conformity there is an excuse. W. S. Mayo. 

GREGARIAN:  Gregarious; belonging to the herd or common sort; common. [Obs.] "The gregarian soldiers." Howell.  GREGARINE; GREGARINAE Greg`a*ri"nae, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gregarina the typical genus, fr. L. gregarius. See Gregarious.] (Zoöl.)  An order of Protozoa, allied to the Rhizopoda, and parasitic in other animals, as in the earthworm, lobster, etc. When adult, they have a small, wormlike body inclosing a nucleus, but without external organs; in one of the young stages, they are amoebiform; -- called also Gregarinida, and Gregarinaria. 

GREGARINE:  Of or pertaining to the Gregarinæ.  -- n.  One of the Gregarinæ. 

GREGARINIDA:  Gregarinæ. 

GREGARIOUS:  Habitually living or moving in flocks or herds; tending to flock or herd together; not habitually solitary or living alone. Burke. No birds of prey are gregarious. Ray. -- Gre*ga"ri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Gre-ga'ri-ous-ness, n.  GREGE; GREGGE Grege, Greg"ge (, v. t. Etym: [OE. gregier to burden.]  To make heavy; to increase. [Obs.] Wyclif.  GREGGOE; GREGO Greg"goe, Gre"go, n. Etym: [Prob. fr, It. Greco Greek, or Sp. Griego, or Pg. Grego.]  A short jacket or cloak, made of very thick, coarse cloth, with a hood attached, worn by the Greeks and others in the Levant. [Written also griego.] 

GREGORIAN:  Pertaining to, or originated by, some person named Gregory, especially one of the popes of that name. Gregorian calendar, the calendar as reformed by Pope Gregory XIII. in 1582, including the method of adjusting the leap years so as to harmonize the civil year with the solar, and also the regulation of the time of Easter and the movable feasts by means of epochs. See Gregorian year (below).  -- Gregorian chant (Mus.), plain song, or canto fermo, a kind of unisonous music, according to the eight celebrated church modes, as arranged and prescribed by Pope Gregory I. (called "the Great") in the 6th century.  -- Gregorian modes, the musical scales ordained by Pope Gregory the Great, and named after the ancient Greek scales, as Dorian, Lydian, etc.  -- Gregorian telescope (Opt.), a form of reflecting telescope, named from Prof. James Gregory, of Edinburgh, who perfected it in 1663. A small concave mirror in the axis of this telescope, having its focus coincident with that of the large reflector, transmits the light received from the latter back through a hole in its center to the eyepiece placed behind it.  -- Gregorian year, the year as now reckoned according to the Gregorian calendar. Thus, every year, of the current reckoning, which is divisible by 4, except those divisible by 100 aud not by 400, has 366 days; all other years have 365 days. See Bissextile, and Note under Style, n., 7. 

GREILLADE:  Iron ore in coarse powder, prepared for reduction by the Catalan process. 

GREISEN:  A crystalline rock consisting of quarts and mica, common in the tin regions of Cornwall and Saxony. 

GREIT:  See Greet, to weep. 

GREITH:  To make ready; -- often used reflexively. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GREITH:  Goods; furniture. [Obs.]  Note: See Graith. 

GREMIAL:  Of or pertaining to the lap or bosom. [R.] 

GREMIAL:  A cloth, often adorned with gold or silver lace, placed on the bishop's lap while he sits in celebrating mass, or in ordaining priests. 

GRENADE:  A hollow ball or shell of iron filled with powder of other explosive, ignited by means of a fuse, and thrown from the hand among enemies. Hand grenade. (a) A small grenade of iron or glass, usually about two and a half inches in diameter, to be thrown from the hand into the head of a sap, trenches, covered way, or upon besiegers mounting a breach. (b) A portable fire extinguisher consisting of a glass bottle containing water and gas. It is thrown into the flames. Called also fire grenade. Rampart grenades, grenades of various sizes, which, when used, are rolled over the pararapet in a trough. 

GRENADIER:  Originaly, a soldier who carried and threw grenades; afterward, one of a company attached to each regiment or battalion, taking post on the right of the line, and wearing a peculiar uniform. In modern times, a member of a special regiment or corps; as, a grenadier of the guard of Napoleon I. one of the regiment of Grenadier Guards of the British army, etc.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any marine fish of the genus Macrurus, in which the body and tail taper to a point; they mostly inhabit the deep sea; -- called also onion fish, and rat-tail fish.  3. (Zoöl.)  A bright-colored South African grosbeak (Pyromelana orix), having the back red and the lower parts black. 

GRENADILLO:  A handsome tropical American wood, much used for making flutes and other wind instruments; -- called also Grenada cocos, or cocus, and red ebony. 

GRENADO:  Same as Grenade. 

GRENE:  Green. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GRES:  Grass. [Obs.] Chaucer.  GRESSORIAL; GRESSORIOUS Gres*so"ri*al, Gres*so"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. gressus, p. p. of gradi to step, go.] (Zool.)  Adapted for walking; anisodactylous; as the feet of certain birds and insects. See Illust. under Aves.  GRET; GRETE Gret, Grete (, a.  Great. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GRETTO:  imp. of Greet, to salute. 

GREVE:  A grove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GREW:  imp. of Grow.  GREWSOME; GRUESOME Grew"some  , Grue"some, a. Etym: [From a word akin to Dan. gru horror, terror + -some; cf. D. gruwzaam, G. grausam. Cf. Grisly.]  Ugly; frightful. Grewsome sights of war. C. Kingsley. 

GREY:  See Gray (the correct orthography). 

GREYHOUND:  A slender, graceful breed of dogs, remarkable for keen sight and swiftness. It is one of the oldest varieties known, and is figured on the Egyptian monuments. [Written also grayhound.] 

GREYLAG:  See Graylag. 

GRIBBLE:  A small marine isopod crustacean (Limnoria lignorum or L. terebrans), which burrows into and rapidly destroys submerged timber, such as the piles of wharves, both in Europe and America. 

GRICE:  A little pig. [Written also grise.] [Scot.] 

GRICE:  See Gree, a step. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

GRID:  A grating of thin parallel bars, similar to a gridiron. 

GRIDDLECAKE:  A cake baked or fried on a griddle, esp. a thin batter cake, as of buckwheat or common flour. 

GRIDE:  To cut with a grating sound; to cut; to penetrate or pierce harshly; as, the griding sword. Milton. That through his thigh the mortal steel did gride. Spenser. 

GRIDE:  A harsh scraping or cutting; a grating. The gride of hatchets fiercely thrown. On wigwam log, and tree, and stone. Whittier. 

GRIDELIN:  A color mixed of white, and red, or a gray violet. [Written also gredaline, grizelin.] Dryden. 

GRIDIRON:  An openwork frame on which vessels are placed for examination, cleaning, and repairs. 3. (Sport)  A football field. Gridiron pendulum. See under Pendulum.  -- Gridiron valve (Steam Engine), a slide valve with several parallel perforations corresponding to openings in the seat on which the valve moves. 

GRIEFFUL:  Full of grief or sorrow. Sackvingle. 

GRIEFLESS:  Without grief. Huloet. 

GRIEGO:  See Greggoe. 

GRIEVABLE:  Lamentable. [Obs.] 

GRIEVANCER:  One who occasions a grievance; one who gives ground for complaint. [Obs.] Petition . . . against the bishops as grand grievancers. Fuller.  GRIEVE; GREEVE Grieve, Greeve, n. Etym: [AS. ger. Cf. Reeve an officer.]  A manager of a farm, or overseer of any work; a reeve; a manorial bailiff. [Scot.] Their children were horsewhipped by the grieve. Sir W. Scott. 

GRIEVE:  To feel grief; to be in pain of mind on account of an evil; to sorrow; to mourn; -- often followed by at, for, or over. Do not you grieve at this. Shak. 

GRIEVER:  One who, or that which, grieves. 

GRIEVING:  Sad; sorrowful; causing grief.  -- n.  The act of causing grief; the state of being grieved.  -- Griev'ing-ly, adv. Shak. 

GRIFF:  An arrangement of parallel bars for lifting the hooked wires which raise the warp threads in a loom for weaving figured goods. Knight. 

GRIFFE:  The offspring of a mulatto woman and a negro; also, a mulatto. [Local, U. S.] 

GRIFFIN:  An Anglo-Indian name for a person just arrived from Europe. H. Kingsley.  GRIFFIN; GRIFFON Grif"fin, Grif"fon, n. Etym: [OE. griffin, griffon, griffoun, F. griffon, fr. L. gryphus, equiv to gryps, Gr.  1. (Myth.)  A fabulous monster, half lion and half eagle. It is often represented in Grecian and Roman works of art.  2. (Her.)  A representation of this creature as an heraldic charge.  3. (Zoöl.)  A species of large vulture (Gyps fulvus) found in the mountainous parts of Southern Europe, North Africa, and Asia Minor; - - called also gripe, and grype. It is supposed to be the "eagle" of the Bible. The bearded griffin is the lammergeir. [Written also gryphon.]  4. An English early apple. 

GRIL:  Harah; hard; severe; stern; rough. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

GRILLADE:  The act of grilling; also, that which is grilled. 

GRILLAGE:  A framework of sleepers and crossbeams forming a foundation in marshy or treacherous soil. 

GRILLE:  A lattice or grating. The grille which formed part of the gate. L. Oliphant. 

GRILLROOM:  A room specially fitted for broiling food, esp. one in a restaurant, hotel, or clubhouse, arranged for prompt service. 

GRILLY:  To broil; to grill; hence, To harass. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

GRILSE:  A young salmon after its first return from the sea. 

GRIM:  Of forbidding or fear-inspiring aspect; fierce; stern; surly; cruel; frightful; horrible. Whose grim aspect sets every joint a-shaking. Shak . The ridges of grim war. Milton.  Syn.-- Fierce; ferocious; furious; horrid; horrible; frightful; ghastly; grisly; hideous; stern; sullen; sour. 

GRIMACE:  A distortion of the countenance, whether habitual, from affectation, or momentary aad occasional, to express some feeling, as contempt, disapprobation, complacency, etc.; a smirk; a made-up face. Moving his face into such a hideons grimace, that every feature of it appeared under a different distortion. Addison.  Note: "Half the French words used affectedly by Melantha in Dryden's "Marriage a-la-Mode," as innovations in our language, are now in common usa: chagrin, double--entendre, éclaircissement, embarras, équivoque, foible, grimace, naïvete, ridicule. All these words, which she learns by heart to use occasionally, are now in common use." I. Disraeli. 

GRIMACE:  To make grimaces; to distort one's face; to make faces. H. Martineau. 

GRIMACED:  Distorted; crabbed. 

GRIMALKIN:  An old cat, esp. a she-cat. J. Philips. 

GRIME:  Foul matter; dirt, rubbed in; sullying blackness, deeply ingrained. 

GRIME:  To sully or soil deeply; to dirt. Shak. 

GRIMILY:  In a grimy manner. 

GRIMINESS:  The state of being grimy. 

GRIMLY:  Grim; hideous; stern. [R.] In glided Margaret's grimly ghost, And stood at William's feet. D. Mallet. 

GRIMLY:  In a grim manner; fiercely. Shak. 

GRIMME:  A West African antelope (Cephalophus rufilotus) of a deep bay color, with a broad dorsal stripe of black; -- called also conquetoon. 

GRIMNESS:  Fierceness of look; sternness; crabbedness; forbiddingness. 

GRIMSIR:  A stern man. [Obs.] Burton. 

GRIMY:  Full of grime; begrimed; dirty; foul. 

GRIN:  A snare; a gin. [Obs.] Like a bird that hasteth to his grin. Remedy of Love. 

GRIN:  To express by grinning. Grinned horrible a ghastly smile.Milton. 

GRIN:  The act of closing the teeth and showing them, or of withdrawing the lips and showing the teeth; a hard, forced, or smeering smile. I.Watts. He showed twenty teeth at a grin. Addison. 

GRINDED:  Ground. Sir W. Scott. 

GRINDELIA:  The dried stems and leaves of tarweed (Grindelia), used as a remedy in asthma and bronchitis. 

GRINDER:  The restless flycatcher (Seisura inquieta) of Australia; -- called also restless thrush and volatile thrush. It makes a noise like a scissors grinder, to which the name alludes. Grinder's asthma, phthisis, or rot (Med.), a lung disease produced by the mechanical irritation of the particles of steel and stone given off in the operation of grinding. 

GRINDERY:  Leather workers' materials. [Eng.] Grindery warehouse, a shop where leather workers' materials and tools are kept on sale. [Eng.] 

GRINDING:  from Grind. Grinding frame, an English name for a cotton spinning machine.  -- Grinding mill. (a) A mill for grinding grain. (b) A lapidary's lathe. 

GRINDINGLY:  In a grinding manner. [Colloq.] 

GRINDLE:  The bowfin; -- called also Johnny Grindle. [Local, U. S.]  GRINDLE STONE Grin"dle stone".  A grindstone. [Obs.] 

GRINDLET:  A small drain. 

GRINDSTONE:  A flat, circular stone, revolving on an axle, for grinding or sharpening tools, or shaping or smoothing objects. To hold, pat, or bring one's nose to the grindstone, to oppress one; to keep one in a condition of servitude. They might be ashamed, for lack of courage, to suffer the Lacedæmonians to hold their noses to the grindstone. Sir T. North. 

GRINGO:  Among Spanish Americans, a foreigner, esp. an Englishman or American; -- often used as a term of reproach. 

GRINNER:  One who grins. Addison. 

GRINNINGLY:  In a grinning manner. 

GRINT:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Grind, Etym: contr. from grindeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GRINTE:  imp. of Grin, v. i., 1. [He] grinte with his teeth, so was he wroth. Chaucer. 

GRINTING:  Grinding. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GRIP:  The griffin. [Obs.] 

GRIP:  A small ditch or furrow. Ray. 

GRIP:  To trench; to drain. 

GRIP:  To give a grip to; to grasp; to gripe.  GRIP CAR Grip car.  A car with a grip to clutch a traction cable. 

GRIPE:  A vulture; the griffin. [Obs.] Like a white hind under the gripe's sharp claws. Shak. Gripe's egg, an alchemist's vessel. [Obs.] E. Jonson. 

GRIPE:  To tend to come up into the wind, as a ship which, when sailing closehauled, requires constant labor at the helm. R. H. Dana, Jr. 

GRIPE:  A device for grasping or holding anything; a brake to stop a wheel.  4. Oppression; cruel exaction; affiction; pinching distress; as, the gripe of poverty.  5. Pinching and spasmodic pain in the intestines; -- chiefly used in the plural.  6. (Naut.) (a) The piece of timber which terminates the keel at the fore end; the forefoot. (b) The compass or sharpness of a ship's stern under the water, having a tendency to make her keep a good wind. (c) pl.  An assemblage of ropes, dead-eyes, and hocks, fastened to ringbolts in the deck, to secure the boats when hoisted; also, broad bands passed around a boat to secure it at the davits and prevent swinging. Gripe penny, a miser; a niggard. D. L. Mackenzie. 

GRIPEFUL:  Disposed to gripe; extortionate. 

GRIPER:  One who gripes; an oppressor; an extortioner. Burton. 

GRIPINGLY:  In a griping or oppressive manner. Bacon. 

GRIPMAN:  The man who manipulates a grip. 

GRIPPE:  The influenza or epidemic catarrh. Dunglison. 

GRIPPER:  In printing presses, the fingers or nippers. 

GRIPPLE:  A grasp; a gripe. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GRIPPLE:  Griping; greedy; covetous; tenacious. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GRIPPLENESS:  The quality of being gripple. [Obs.] 

GRIPSACK:  A traveler's handbag. [Colloq.] 

GRIS:  Gray. [R.] Chaucer. 

GRIS:  A costly kind of fur. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GRIS:  A little pig. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

GRISAILLE:  Decorative painting in gray monochrome; -- used in English especially for painted glass.  2. A kind of French fancy dress goods. Knight. 

GRISAMBER:  Ambergris. [Obs.] Milton. 

GRISE:  See Grice, a pig. [Prov. Eng.] 

GRISE:  A step (in a flight of stairs); a degree. [Obs.] Every grise of fortune is smoothed by that below. Shak. 

GRISEOUS:  Of a light color, or white, mottled with black or brown; grizzled or grizzly. Maunder. 

GRISETTE:  A French girl or young married woman of the lower class; more frequently, a young working woman who is fond of gallantry. Sterne. 

GRISKIN:  The spine of a hog. [Obs.] 

GRISLED:  See Grizzled. 

GRISLINESS:  The quality or state of being grisly; horrid. Sir P. Sidney. 

GRISLY:  Frightful; horrible; dreadful; harsh; as, grisly locks; a grisly specter. "Grisly to behold." Chaucer. A man of grisly and stern gravity. Robynson (More's Utopia). Grisly bear. (Zoöl.) See under Grizzly. 

GRISONS:  The largest and most eastern of the Swiss cantons. 

GRISTLE:  Cartilage. See Cartilage. Bacon. 

GRISTLY:  Consisting of, or containing, gristle; like gristle; cartilaginous. 

GRISTMILL:  A mill for grinding grain; especially, a mill for grinding grists, or portions of grain brought by different customers; a custom mill. 

GRIT:  Grain, esp. oats or wheat, hulled and coarsely ground; in high milling, fragments of cracked wheat smaller than groats.  4. (Geol.)  A hard, coarse-grained siliceous sandstone; as, millstone grit; -- called also gritrock and gritstone. The name is also applied to a finer sharp-grained sandstone; as, grindstone grit.  5. Structure, as adapted to grind or sharpen; as, a hone of good grit.  6. Firmness of mind; invincible spirit; unyielding courage; fortitude. C. Reade. E. P. Whipple. 

GRIT:  To give forth a grating sound, as sand under the feet; to grate; to grind. The sanded floor that grits beneath the tread. Goldsmith. 

GRIT:  To grind; to rub harshly together; to grate; as, to grit the teeth. [Collog.] 

GRITH:  Peace; security; agreement. [Obs.] Gower.  GRITROCK; GRITSTONE Grit"rock`, Grit"stone` n. (Geol.)  See Grit, n., 4. 

GRITTINESS:  The quality of being gritty. 

GRIVET:  A monkey of the upper Nile and Abyssinia (Cercopithecus griseoviridis), having the upper parts dull green, the lower parts white, the hands, ears, and face black. It was known to the ancient Egyptians. Called also tota. 

GRIZE:  Same as 2d Grise. [Obs.] 

GRIZELIN:  See Gridelin. 

GRIZZLE:  Gray; a gray color; a mixture of white and black. Shak. 

GRIZZLED:  Gray; grayish; sprinkled or mixed with gray; of a mixed white and black. Grizzled hair flowing in elf locks. Sir W. Scott. 

GRIZZLY:  Somewhat gray; grizzled. Old squirrels that turn grizzly. Bacon. Grizzly bear (Zoöl.), a large and ferocious bear (Ursus horribilis) of Western North America and the Rocky Mountains. It is remarkable for the great length of its claws. 

GRIZZLY:  A grizzly bear. See under Grizzly, a.  2. pl.  In hydraulic mining, gratings used to catch and throw out large stones from the sluices. [Local, U. S.] Raymond. 

GROAN:  To affect by groans. 

GROAN:  A low, moaning sound; usually, a deep, mournful sound uttered in pain or great distress; sometimes, an expression of strong disapprobation; as, the remark was received with groans. Such groans of roaring wind and rain. Shak. The wretched animal heaved forth such groans. Shak. 

GROANFUL:  Agonizing; sad. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GROATS:  Dried grain, as oats or wheat, hulled and broken or crushed; in high milling, cracked fragments of wheat larger than grits. Embden groats, crushed oats. 

GROBIAN:  A rude or clownish person; boor; lout. 

GROCER:  A trader who deals in tea, sugar, spices, coffee, fruits, and various other commodities. Grocer's itch (Med.), a disease of the akin, caused by handling sugar and treacle. 

GROG:  A mixture of spirit and water not sweetened; hence, any intoxicating liquor. Grog blossom, a redness on the nose or face of persons who drink ardent spirits to excess. [Collog.] 

GROGGERY:  A grogshop. [Slang, U. S.] 

GROGGINESS:  Tenderness or stiffness in the foot of a horse, which causes him to move in a hobbling manner. 

GROGGY:  Moving in a hobbling manner, owing to ten der feet; -- said of a horse. Youatt.  GROGRAM; GROGRAN Grog"ram, Grog"ran, n. Etym: [OF. gros-grain, lit., gros-grain, of a coarse texture. See Gross, and Grain a kernel, and cf. Grog.]  A coarse stuff made of silk and mohair, or of coarse silk. 

GROGSHOP:  A shop or room where strong liquors are sold and drunk; a dramshop. 

GROIN:  The snout of a swine. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GROIN:  To grunt to growl; to snarl; to murmur. [Obs.] Chaucer. Bears that groined coatinually. Spenser. 

GROIN:  The line between the lower part of the abdomen and the thigh, or the region of this line; the inguen.  2. (Arch.)  The projecting solid angle formed by the meeting of two vaults, growing more obtuse as it approaches the summit.  3. (Math.)  The surface formed by two such vaults.  4. A frame of woodwork across a beach to accumulate and retain shingle. [Eng.] Weale. 

GROIN:  To fashion into groins; to build with groins. The hand that rounded Peter's dome, And groined the aisles of Christian Rome, Wrought in a sad sincerity. Emerson. 

GROINED:  Built with groins; as, a groined ceiling; a groined vault. 

GROLIER:  The name by which Jean Grolier de Servier (1479-1565), a French bibliophile, is commonly known; -- used in naming a certain style of binding, a design, etc.  Grolier binding, a book binding decorated with a pattern imitated from those given covers of books bound for Jean Grolier, and bearing his name and motto. --Grolier design or school, the pattern of interlacing bars, bands, or ribbons, with little scrolls of slender gold lines, assumed to be an imitation of the designs on Jean Grolier's book bindings. 

GROMET:  Same as Grommet. 

GROMILL:  See Gromwell. 

GROMMET:  A ring of rope used as a wad to hold a cannon ball in place. 

GROMWELL:  A plant of the genus Lithospermum (L. arvense), anciently used, because of its stony pericarp, in the cure of gravel. The German gromwell is the Stellera. [Written also gromill.] 

GROND:  obs. imp. of Grind. Chaucer. 

GRONTE:  obs. imp. of Groan. Chaucer. 

GROOM:  To tend or care for, or to curry or clean, as a, horse. 

GROOMER:  One who, or that which, grooms horses; especially, a brush rotated by a flexible or jointed revolving shaft, for cleaning horses. 

GROOMSMAN:  A male attendant of a bridegroom at his wedding; -- the correlative of bridesmaid. 

GROOPER:  See Grouper. 

GROOVE:  A shaft or excavation. [Prov. Eng.] 

GROOVE:  To cut a groove or channel in; to form into channels or grooves; to furrow. 

GROOVING:  The act of forming a groove or grooves; a groove, or collection of grooves. 

GROPER:  One who gropes; one who feels his way in the dark, or searches by feeling.  GROPING-LY Grop"ing-ly, adv.  In a groping manner. 

GROS:  A heavy silk with a dull finish; as, gros de Naples; gros de Tours. 

GROSBEAK:  One of various species of finches having a large, stout beak. The common European grosbeak or hawfinch is Coccothraustes vulgaris.  Note: Among the best known American species are the rose-breasted (Habia Ludoviciana); the blue (Guiraca coerulea); the pine (Pinicola enucleator); and the evening grosbeak. See Hawfinch, and Cardinal grosbeak, Evening grosbeak, under Cardinal and Evening. [Written also grossbeak.] Habia Ludoviciana). 

GROSCHEN:  A small silver coin and money of account of Germany, worth about two cents. It is not included in the new monetary system of the empire. 

GROSGRAIN:  Of a coarse texture; -- applied to silk with a heavy thread running crosswise. 

GROSS:  The number of twelve dozen; twelve times twelve; as, a gross of bottles; ten gross of pens. Advowson in gross (Law), an advowson belonging to a person, and not to a manor.  -- A great gross, twelve gross; one hundred and forty-four dozen.  -- By the gross, by the quantity; at wholesale.  -- Common in gross. (Law) See under Common, n.  -- In the gross, In gross, in the bulk, or the undivided whole; all parts taken together. 

GROSSBEAK:  See Grosbeak.  GROSS-HEADED Gross"-head`ed, a.  Thick-skulled; stupid. 

GROSSIFICATION:  The swelling of the ovary of plants after fertilization. Henslow. 

GROSSLY:  In a gross manner; greatly; coarsely; without delicacy; shamefully; disgracefully. 

GROSSNESS:  The state or quality of being gross; thickness; corpulence; coarseness; shamefulness. Abhor the swinish grossness that delights to wound the' ear of delicacy. Dr. T. Dwight. 

GROSSULAR:  Pertaining too, or resembling, a gooseberry; as, grossular garnet. 

GROSSULAR:  A translucent garnet of a pale green color like that of the gooseberry; -- called also grossularite. 

GROSSULARIA:  Same as Grossular. 

GROSSULIN:  A vegetable jelly, resembling pectin, found in gooseberries (Ribes Grossularia) and other fruits. 

GROT:  A grotto. [Poetic] Milton.  GROT; GROTE Grot, Grote (, n.  A groat. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GROTESQUE:  Like the figures found in ancient grottoes; grottolike; wildly or strangely formed; whimsical; extravagant; of irregular forms and proportions; fantastic; ludicrous; antic. "Grotesque design." Dryden. "Grotesque incidents." Macaulay. 

GROTESQUELY:  In a grotesque manner. 

GROTESQUENESS:  Quality of being grotesque. 

GROTESQUERY:  Grotesque action, speech, or manners; grotesque doings. "The sustained grotesquery of Feather-top."  K. L. Bates.  Vileness, on the other hand, becomes grotesquerie, wonderfully converted into a subject of laughter. George Gissing. 

GROTTO:  A natural covered opening in the earth; a cave; also, an artificial recess, cave, or cavernlike apartment.  GROTTO-WORK Grot"to-work`, n.  Artificial and ornamental rockwork in imitation of a grotto. Cowper. 

GROUND:  A floor or pavement supposed to rest upon the earth.  2. Any definite portion of the earth's surface; region; territory; country. Hence: A territory appropriated to, or resorted to, for a particular purpose; the field or place of action; as, a hunting or fishing ground; a play ground. From . . . old Euphrates, to the brook that parts Egypt from Syrian ground. Milton.  3. Land; estate; possession; field; esp. (pl.), the gardens, lawns, fields, etc., belonging to a homestead; as, the grounds of the estate are well kept. Thy next design is on thy neighbor's grounds. Dryden. 4.  4. The basis on which anything rests; foundation. Hence: The foundation of knowledge, belief, or conviction; a premise, reason, or datum; ultimate or first principle; cause of existence or occurrence; originating force or agency; as, the ground of my hope.  5. (Paint. & Decorative Art) (a) That surface upon which the figures of a composition are set, and which relieves them by its plainness, being either of one tint or of tints but slightly contrasted with one another; as, crimson Bowers on a white ground. See Background, Foreground, and Middle-ground. (b) In sculpture, a flat surface upon which figures are raised in relief. (c) In point lace, the net of small meshes upon which the embroidered pattern is applied; as, Brussels ground. See Brussels lace, under Brussels.  6. (Etching)  A gummy composition spread over the surface of a metal to be etched, to prevent the acid from eating except where an opening is made by the needle.  7. (Arch.)  One of the pieces of wood, flush with the plastering, to which moldings, etc., are attached; -- usually in the plural.  Note: Grounds are usually put up first and the plastering floated flush with them.  8. (Mus.) (a) A composition in which the bass, consisting of a few bars of independent notes, is continually repeated to a varying melody. (b) The tune on which descants are raised; the plain song. Moore (Encyc.). On that ground I'll build a holy descant. Shak.  9. (Elec.)  A conducting connection with the earth, whereby the earth is made part of an electrical circuit.  10. pl.  Sediment at the bottom of liquors or liquids; dregs; lees; feces; as, coffee grounds.  11. The pit of a theater. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Ground angling, angling with a weighted line without a float.  -- Ground annual (Scots Law), an estate created in land by a vassal who instead of selling his land outright reserves an annual ground rent, which becomes a perpetual charge upon the land.  -- Ground ash. (Bot.) See Groutweed.  -- Ground bailiff (Mining), a superintendent of mines. Simmonds.  -- Ground bait, bits of bread, boiled barley or worms, etc., thrown into the water to collect the fish, Wallon.  -- Ground bass or base (Mus.), fundamental base; a fundamental base continually repeated to a varied melody.  -- Ground beetle (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of carnivorous beetles of the family Carabidæ, living mostly in burrows or under stones, etc.  -- Ground chamber, a room on the ground floor.  -- Ground cherry. (Bot.) (a) A genus (Physalis) of herbaceous plants having an inflated calyx for a seed pod: esp., the strawberry tomato (P. Alkekengi). See Alkekengl. (b) A European shrub (Prunus Chamæcerasus), with small, very acid fruit.  -- Ground cuckoo. (Zoöl.) See Chaparral cock.  -- Ground cypress. (Bot.) See Lavender cotton.  -- Ground dove (Zoöl.), one of several small American pigeons of the genus Columbigallina, esp. C. passerina of the Southern United States, Mexico, etc. They live chiefly on the ground.  -- Ground fish (Zoöl.), any fish which constantly lives on the botton of the sea, as the sole, turbot, halibut.  -- Ground floor, the floor of a house most nearly on a level with the ground; -- called also in America, but not in England, the first floor.  -- Ground form (Gram.), the stem or basis of a word, to which the other parts are added in declension or conjugation. It is sometimes, but not always, the same as the root.  -- Ground furze (Bot.), a low slightly thorny, leguminous shrub (Ononis arvensis) of Europe and Central Asia,; -- called also rest- harrow.  -- Ground game, hares, rabbits, etc., as distinguished from winged game.  -- Ground hele (Bot.), a perennial herb (Veronica officinalis) with small blue flowers, common in Europe and America, formerly thought to have curative properties.  -- Ground of the heavens (Astron.), the surface of any part of the celestial sphere upon which the stars may be regarded as projected.  -- Ground hemlock (Bot.), the yew (Taxus baccata var. Canadensisi) of eastern North America, distinguished from that of Europe by its low, straggling stems.  -- Ground hog. (Zoöl.) (a) The woodchuck or American marmot (Arctomys monax). See Woodchuck. (b) The aardvark.  -- Ground hold (Naut.), ground tackle. [Obs.] Spenser.  -- Ground ice, ice formed at the bottom of a body of water before it forms on the surface.  -- Ground ivy. (Bot.) A trailing plant; alehoof. See Gill.  -- Ground joist, a joist for a basement or ground floor; a. sleeper.  -- Ground lark (Zoöl.), the European pipit. See Pipit.  -- Ground laurel (Bot.). See Trailing arbutus, under Arbutus.  -- Ground line (Descriptive Geom.), the line of intersection of the horizontal and vertical planes of projection.  -- Ground liverwort (Bot.), a flowerless plant with a broad flat forking thallus and the fruit raised on peduncled and radiated receptacles (Marchantia polymorpha).  -- Ground mail, in Scotland, the fee paid for interment in a churchyard.  -- Ground mass (Geol.), the fine-grained or glassy base of a rock, in which distinct crystals of its constituents are embedded.  -- Ground parrakeet (Zoöl.), one of several Australian parrakeets, of the genera Callipsittacus and Geopsittacus, which live mainly upon the ground.  -- Ground pearl (Zoöl.), an insect of the family Coccidæ (Margarodes formicarum), found in ants' nests in the Bahamas, and having a shelly covering. They are strung like beads, and made into necklaces by the natives.  -- Ground pig (Zoöl.), a large, burrowing, African rodent (Aulacodus Swinderianus) about two feet long, allied to the porcupines but with harsh, bristly hair, and no spines; -- called also ground rat.  -- Ground pigeon (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of pigeons which live largely upon the ground, as the tooth-billed pigeon (Didunculus strigirostris), of the Samoan Islands, and the crowned pigeon, or goura. See Goura, and Ground dove (above).  -- Ground pine. (Bot.) (a) A blue-flowered herb of the genus Ajuga (A. Chamæpitys), formerly included in the genus Teucrium or germander, and named from its resinous smell. Sir L. Hill. (b) A long, creeping, evergreen plant of the genus Lycopodium (L. clavatum); -- called also club moss. (c) A tree-shaped evergreen plant about eight inches in height, of the same genus (L. dendroideum) found in moist, dark woods in the northern part of the United States. Gray.  -- Ground plan (Arch.), a plan of the ground floor of any building, or of any floor, as distinguished from an elevation or perpendicular section.  -- Ground plane, the horizontal plane of projection in perspective drawing.  -- Ground plate. (a) (Arch.) One of the chief pieces of framing of a building; a timber laid horizontally on or near the ground to support the uprights; a ground sill or groundsel. (b) (Railroads) A bed plate for sleepers or ties; a mudsill. (c) (Teleg.) A metallic plate buried in the earth to conduct the electric current thereto. Connection to the pipes of a gas or water main is usual in cities. Knight.  -- Ground plot, the ground upon which any structure is erected; hence, any basis or foundation; also, a ground plan.  -- Ground plum (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Astragalus caryocarpus) occurring from the Saskatchewan to Texas, and having a succulent plum-shaped pod.  -- Ground rat. (Zoöl.) See Ground pig (above).  -- Ground rent, rent paid for the privilege of building on another man's land.  -- Ground robin. (Zoöl.) See Chewink.  -- Ground room, a room on the ground floor; a lower room. Tatler.  -- Ground sea, the West Indian name for a swell of the ocean, which occurs in calm weather and without obvious cause, breaking on the shore in heavy roaring billows; -- called also rollers, and in Jamaica, the North sea.  -- Ground sill. See Ground plate (a) (above).  -- Ground snake (Zoöl.), a small burrowing American snake (Celuta amoena). It is salmon colored, and has a blunt tail.  -- Ground squirrel. (Zoöl.) (a) One of numerous species of burrowing rodents of the genera Tamias and Spermophilus, having cheek pouches. The former genus includes the Eastern striped squirrel or chipmunk and some allied Western species; the latter includes the prairie squirrel or striped gopher, the gray gopher, and many allied Western species. See Chipmunk, and Gopher. (b) Any species of the African genus Xerus, allied to Tamias.  -- Ground story. Same as Ground floor (above).  -- Ground substance (Anat.), the intercellular substance, or matrix, of tissues.  -- Ground swell. (a) (Bot.) The plant groundsel. [Obs.] Holland. (b) A broad, deep swell or undulation of the ocean, caused by a long continued gale, and felt even at a remote distance after the gale has ceased.  -- Ground table. (Arch.) See Earth table, under Earth.  -- Ground tackle (Naut.), the tackle necessary to secure a vessel at anchor. Totten.  -- Ground thrush (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of bright-colored Oriental birds of the family Pittidæ. See Pitta.  -- Ground tier. (a) The lowest tier of water casks in a vessel's hold. Totten. (b) The lowest line of articles of any kind stowed in a vessel's hold. (c) The lowest range of boxes in a theater.  -- Ground timbers (Shipbuilding) the timbers which lie on the keel and are bolted to the keelson; floor timbers. Knight.  -- Ground tit. (Zoöl.) See Ground wren (below).  -- Ground wheel, that wheel of a harvester, mowing machine, etc., which, rolling on the ground, drives the mechanism.  -- Ground wren (Zoöl.), a small California bird (Chamæa fasciata) allied to the wrens and titmice. It inhibits the arid plains. Called also gronnd tit, and wren lit.  -- To bite the ground, To break ground. See under Bite, Break.  -- To come to the ground, To fall to the ground, to come to nothing; to fail; to miscarry.  -- To gain ground. (a) To advance; to proceed forward in confict; as, an army in battle gains ground. (b) To obtain an advantage; to have some success; as, the army gains ground on the enemy. (c) To gain credit; to become more prosperous or influential.  -- To get, or To gather, ground, to gain ground. [R.] "Evening mist . . . gathers ground fast." Milton. There is no way for duty to prevail, and get ground of them, but by bidding higher. South. -- To give ground, to recede; to yield advantage. These nine . . . began to give me ground. Shak. --To lose ground, to retire; to retreat; to withdraw from the position taken; hence, to lose advantage; to lose credit or reputation; to decline.  -- To stand one's ground, to stand firm; to resist attack or encroachment. Atterbury.  -- To take the ground to touch bottom or become stranded; -- said of a ship. 

GROUND:  To connect with the ground so as to make the earth a part of an electrical circuit.  5. (Fine Arts)  To cover with a ground, as a copper plate for etching (see Ground, n., 5); or as paper or other materials with a uniform tint as a preparation for ornament. 

GROUND:  To run aground; to strike the bottom and remain fixed; as, the ship grounded on the bar. 

GROUND:  imp. & p. p. of Grind. Ground cock, a cock, the plug of which is ground into its seat, as distinguished from a compression cock. Knight.  -- Ground glass, glass the transparency of which has been destroyed by having its surface roughened by grinding.  -- Ground joint, a close joint made by grinding together two pieces, as of metal with emery and oil, or of glass with fine sand and water. 

GROUNDAGE:  A local tax paid by a ship for the ground or space it occupies while in port. Bouvier. 

GROUNDEDLY:  In a grounded or firmly established manner. Glanvill. 

GROUNDEN:  p. p. of Grind. Chaucer. 

GROUNDING:  The act, method, or process of laying a groundwork or foundation; hence, elementary instruction; the act or process of applying a ground, as of color, to wall paper, cotton cloth, etc.; a basis. 

GROUNDLESS:  Without ground or foundation; wanting cause or reason for support; not authorized; false; as, groundless fear; a groundless report or assertion.  -- Ground"less*ly, adv.  -- Ground"less*ness, n. 

GROUNDLING:  A fish that keeps at the bottom of the water, as the loach.  2. A spectator in the pit of a theater, which formerly was on the ground, and without floor or benches. No comic buffoon to make the groundlings laugh. Coleridge. 

GROUNDLY:  Solidly; deeply; thoroughly. [Obs.] Those whom princes do once groundly hate, Let them provide to die as sure us fate. Marston. 

GROUNDSEL:  An annual composite plant (Senecio vulgaris) one of the most common, and widely distributed weeds on the globe. 

GROUNDSEL:  See Ground 

GROUNDSILL:  

GROUNDWORK:  That which forms the foundation or support of anything; the basis; the essential or fundamental part; first principle. Dryden. 

GROUP:  A variously limited assemblage of animals or planta, having some resemblance, or common characteristics in form or structure. The term has different uses, and may be made to include certain species of a genus, or a whole genus, or certain genera, or even several orders.  4. (Mus.)  A number of eighth, sixteenth, etc., notes joined at the stems; -- sometimes rather indefinitely applied to any ornament made up of a few short notes. 

GROUP:  To form a group of; to arrange or combine in a group or in groups, often with reference to mutual relation and the best effect; to form an assemblage of. The difficulty lies in drawing and disposing, or, as the painters term it, in grouping such a multitude of different objects. Prior. Grouped columns (Arch.), three or moro columns placed upon the same pedestal. 

GROUPING:  The disposal or relative arrangement of figures or objects, as in, drawing, painting, and sculpture, or in ornamental design. 

GROUSE:  ) Any of the numerous species of gallinaceous birds of the family Tetraonidæ, and subfamily Tetraoninæ, inhabiting Europe, Asia, and North America. They have plump bodies, strong, well-feathered legs, and usually mottled plumage. The group includes the ptarmigans (Lagopus), having feathered feet.  Note: Among the European species are the red grouse (Lagopus Scoticus) and the hazel grouse (Bonasa betulina). See Capercaidzie, Ptarmigan, and Heath grouse. Among the most important American species are the ruffed grouse, or New England partridge (Bonasa umbellus); the sharp-tailed grouse (Pediocætes phasianellus) of the West; the dusky blue, or pine grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) of the Rocky Mountains; the Canada grouse, or spruce partridge (D. Canadensis). See also Prairie hen, and Sage cock. The Old World sand grouse (Pterocles, etc.) belong to a very different family. See Pterocletes, and Sand grouse. 

GROUSE:  To seek or shoot grouse. 

GROUSER:  (Dredging, Pile Driving, etc.) A pointed timber attached to a boat and sliding vertically, to thrust into the ground as a means of anchorage. 

GROUT:  Lees; dregs; grounds. [Eng.] "Grouts of tea." Dickens.  4. A thin, coarse mortar, used for pouring into the joints of masonry and brickwork; also, a finer material, used in finishing the best ceilings. Gwilt. 

GROUT:  To fill up or finish with grout, as the joints between stones. 

GROUTHEAD:  See Growthead. 

GROUTING:  The process of filling in or finishing with grout; also, the grout thus filled in. Gwilt. 

GROUTNOL:  Same as Growthead. Beau. & Fl. 

GROUTY:  Cross; sulky; sullen. [Colloq.] 

GROVE:  The original sense seems to have been a lane cut through trees. See Grave, v., and cf. Groove.] A smaller group of trees than a forest, and without underwood, planted, or growing naturally as if arranged by art; a wood of small extent.  Note: The Hebrew word Asherah, rendered grove in the Authorized Version of the Bible, is left untranslated in the Revised Version. Almost all modern interpreters agree that by Asherah an idol or image of some kind is intended. 

GROVELER:  One who grovels; an abject wretch. [Written also groveller.] 

GROVELING:  Lying prone; low; debased. [Written also grovelling.] "A groveling creature." Cowper. 

GROVY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a grove; situated in, or frequenting, groves. Dampier. 

GROW:  To cause to grow; to cultivate; to produce; as, to grow a crop; to grow wheat, hops, or tobacco. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To raise; to cultivate. See Raise, v. t., 3. 

GROWABLE:  Capable of growth. 

GROWAN:  A decomposed granite, forming a mass of gravel, as in tin lodes in Cornwall. 

GROWER:  One who grows or produces; as, a grower of corn; also, that which grows or increases; as, a vine may be a rank or a slow grower. 

GROWL:  To utter a deep guttural sound, sa an angry dog; to give forth an angry, grumbling sound. Gay. 

GROWL:  To express by growling. Thomson. 

GROWL:  The deep, threatening sound made by a surly dog; a grumbling sound. 

GROWLER:  The large-mouthed black bass. [Local]  3. A four-wheeled cab. [Slang, Eng.] 

GROWLINGLY:  In a growling manner. 

GROWN:  p. p. of Grow. 

GROWSE:  To shiver; to have chills. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray. 

GROWTHEAD:  A lazy person; a blockhead. [Obs.] Tusser. 

GROWTHFUL:  Having capacity of growth. [R.] J. Hamilton. 

GROYNE:  See Groin.  GROZING IRON Gro"zing i"ron.  1. A tool with a hardened steel point, formerly used instead of a diamond for cutting glass.  2. (Plumbing)  A tool for smoothing the solder joints of lead pipe. Knight. 

GRUB:  The larva of an insect, especially of a beetle; -- called also grubworm. See Illust. of Goldsmith beetle, under Goldsmith. Yet your butterfly was a grub. Shak.  2. A short, thick man; a dwarf. [Obs.] Carew.  3. Victuals; food. [Slang] Halliwell. Grub ax or axe, a kind of mattock used in grubbing up roots, etc.  -- Grub breaker. Same as Grub hook (below).  -- Grub hoe, a heavy hoe for grubbing.  -- Grub hook, a plowlike implement for uprooting stumps, breaking roots, etc.  -- Grub saw, a handsaw used for sawing marble.  -- Grub Street, a street in London (now called Milton Street), described by Dr. Johnson as "much inhabited by writers of small histories, dictionaries, and temporary poems, whence any mean production is called grubstreet." As an adjective, suitable to, or resembling the production of, Grub Street. I 'd sooner ballads write, and grubstreet lays. Gap. 

GRUBBER:  One who, or that which, grubs; especially, a machine or tool of the nature of a grub ax, .grub hook, etc. 

GRUBBLE:  To feel or grope in the dark. [Obs.] Dryden. 

GRUBBY:  Dirty; unclean. [Colloq.] The grubby game of marbles. Lond. Sat. Rev. 

GRUBBY:  Any species of Cottus; a sculpin. [Local, U. S.] 

GRUBWORM:  See Grub, n., 1. And gnats and grubworms crowded on his view. C. Smart. 

GRUCCHE:  To murmur; to grumble. [Obs.] What aileth you, thus for grucche and groan. Chaucer. 

GRUDGEFUL:  Full of grudge; envious. "Grudgeful discontent." Spenser.  GRUDGEONS; GURGEONS Grud"geons, Gur"geons (, n. pl. Etym: [Prob. from P. grugir to craunch; cf. D. gruizen to crush, grind, and E. grout.]  Coarse meal. [Obs.] 

GRUDGER:  One who grudges. 

GRUDGINGLY:  In a grudging manner. 

GRUDGINGNESS:  The state or quality of grudging, or of being full of grudge or unwillingness. 

GRUEL:  A light, liquid food, made by boiling meal of maize, oatmeal, or fiour in water or milk; thin porridge. 

GRUELLY:  Like gruel; of the consistence of gruel. 

GRUESOME:  Same as Grewsome. [Scot.] 

GRUF:  Forwards; with one's face to the ground. [Obs.] They fellen gruf, and cryed piteously. Chaucer. 

GRUFF:  Of a rough or stern manner, voice, or countenance; sour; surly; severe; harsh. Addison. Gruff, disagreeable, sarcastic remarks. Thackeray. -- Gruff"ly, adv.  -- Gruff"ness, n.  GRUGRU PALM Gru"gru palm". (Bot.)  A West Indian name for several kinds of palm. See Macaw tree, under Macaw. [Written also grigri palm.]  GRUGRU WORM Gru"gru worm". (Zoöl.)  The larva or grub of a large South American beetle (Calandra palmarum), which lives in the pith of palm trees and sugar cane. It is eaten by the natives, and esteemed a delicacy. 

GRUMBLE:  To express or utter with grumbling. 

GRUMBLER:  One who grumbles. 

GRUMBLINGLY:  In a grumbling manner. 

GRUME:  A thick, viscid fluid; a clot, as of blood. Quincy. 

GRUMLY:  In a grum manner. 

GRUMOSE:  Clustered in grains at intervals; grumous. 

GRUMOUS:  See Grumose. 

GRUMOUSNESS:  The state of being grumous. 

GRUMPILY:  In a surly manner; sullenly. [Colloq.] 

GRUMPY:  Surly; dissatisfied; grouty. [Collog.] Ferby. 

GRUNDEL:  A groundling (fish). [Prov. Eng.] 

GRUNDSEL:  Grounsel. [Obs.] 

GRUNDYISM:  Narrow and unintelligent conventionalism. -- Grun"dy*ist, n. 

GRUNT:  To make a deep, short noise, as a hog; to utter a short groan or a deep guttural sound. Who would fardels bear, To grunt and sweat under a weary life. Shak. Grunting ox (Zoöl.), the yak. 

GRUNT:  Any one of several species of American food fishes, of the genus Hæmulon, allied to the snappers, as, the black grunt (A. Plumieri), and the redmouth grunt (H. aurolineatus), of the Southern United States; -- also applied to allied species of the genera Pomadasys, Orthopristis, and Pristopoma. Called also pigfish, squirrel fish, and grunter; -- so called from the noise it makes when taken. 

GRUNTER:  One of several American marine fishes. See Sea robin, and Grunt, n., 2.  3. (Brass Founding)  A hook used in lifting a crucible. 

GRUNTINGLY:  In a grunting manner. 

GRUNTLE:  To grunt; to grunt repeatedly. [Obs.] 

GRUNTLING:  A young hog. 

GRUTCH:  See Grudge. [Obs.] Hudibras.  GRUYERE CHEESE Gru"yère` cheese  '' (Gruyère, Switzerland. It is a firm cheese containing numerous cells, and is known in the United States as Schweitzerkäse. 

GRYDE:  To gride. See Gride. Spenser. 

GRYFON:  See Griffin. Spenser. 

GRYLLUS:  A genus of insects including the common crickets. 

GRYPE:  To gripe. [Obs.] See Gripe. Spenser. 

GRYPE:  A vulture; the griffin. [Written also gripe.] [Obs.] 

GRYPHAEA:  A genus of cretaceous fossil shells allied to the oyster. 

GRYPHITE:  A shell of the genus Gryphea. 

GRYPHON:  The griffin vulture. 

GRYSBOK:  A small South African antelope (Neotragus melanotis). It is speckled with gray and chestnut, above; the under parts are reddish fawn. 

GUACHARO:  A nocturnal bird of South America and Trinidad (Steatornis Caripensis, or S. steatornis); -- called also oilbird.  Note: It resembles the goatsuckers and nighthawks, but feeds on fruits, and nests in caverns. A pure oil, used in place of butter, is extracted from the young by the natives. 

GUAIAC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, guaiacum.  -- n. Guaiacum. 

GUAIACOL:  A colorless liquid, C7H8O2, with a peculiar odor. It is the methyl ether of pyrocatechin, and is obtained by distilling guaiacum from wood-tar creosote, and in other ways. It has been used in treating pulmonary tuberculosis. 

GUAIACUM:  A genus of small, crooked trees, growing in tropical America.  2. The heart wood or the resin of the Guaiacum offinale or lignum- vitæ, a large tree of the West Indies and Central America. It is much used in medicine. [Written also guaiac.] 

GUAN:  Any one of many species of large gallinaceous birds of Certal and South America, belonging to Penelope, Pipile, Ortalis, and allied genera. Several of the species are often domesticated. 

GUANA:  See Iguana. 

GUANACO:  A South American mammal (Auchenia huanaco), allied to the llama, but of larger size and more graceful form, inhabiting the southern Andes and Patagonia. It is supposed by some to be the llama in a wild state. [Written also huanaco.] 

GUANIDINE:  A strongly alkaline base, CN3H5, formed by the oxidation of guanin, and also obtained combined with methyl in the decomposition of creatin. Boiled with dilute sulphuric acid, it yields urea and ammonia. 

GUANIFEROUS:  Yielding guano. Ure. 

GUANIN:  A crystalline substance (C5H5N5O) contained in guano. It is also a constituent of the liver, pancreas, and other glands in mammals. 

GUANO:  A substance found in great abundance on some coasts or islands frequented by sea fowls, and composed chiefly of their excrement. It is rich in phosphates and ammonia, and is used as a powerful fertilizer. 

GUARANA:  A preparation from the seeds of Paullinia sorbilis, a woody climber of Brazil, used in making an astringent drink, and also in the cure of headache. 

GUARANINE:  An alkaloid extracted from guarana. Same as Caffeine. 

GUARANTEE:  The person to whom a guaranty is made; -- the correlative of guarantor.  Syn.  -- Guarantee, Warranty. A guarantee is an engagement that a certain act will be done or not done in future. A warranty is an engagement as to the qualities or title of a thing at the time of the engagement. 

GUARANTEE:  In law and common usage: to undertake or engage for the payment of (a debt) or the performance of (a duty) by another person; to undertake to secure (a possession, right, claim, etc.) to another against a specified contingency, or at all avents; to give a guarantee concerning; to engage, assure, or secure as a thing that may be depended on; to warrant; as, to guarantee the execution of a treaty. The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government. Constitution of the U. S. 

GUARANTY:  In law and common usage: An undertaking to answer for the payment of some debt, or the performance of some contract or duty, of another, in case of the failure of such other to pay or perform; a guarantee; a warranty; a security. 

GUARANTY:  In law and common usage: To undertake or engage that another person shall perform (what he hass stipulated); to undertake to be answerable for (the debt or default of another); to engage to answer for the performance of (some promise or duty by another) in case of a failure by the latter to perform; to undertake to secure (something) to another, as in the case of a contingency. See Guarantee, v. t.  Note: Guaranty agrees in form with warranty. Both guaranty and guarantee are well authorized by legal writers in the United States. The prevailing spelling, at least for the verb, is guarantee. 

GUARD:  To watch by way of caution or defense; to be caution; to be in a state or position of defense or safety; as, careful persons guard against mistakes. 

GUARD:  The fibrous sheath which covers the phragmacone of the Belemnites.  Note: Guard is often used adjectively or in combination; as, guard boat or guardboat; guardroom or guard room; guard duty. Advanced guard, Coast guard, etc. See under Advanced, Coast, etc.  -- Grand guard (Mil.), one of the posts of the second line belonging to a system of advance posts of an army. Mahan.  -- Guard boat. (a) A boat appointed to row the rounds among ships of war in a harbor, to see that their officers keep a good lookout. (b) A boat used by harbor authorities to enforce the observance of quarantine regulations.  -- Guard cells (Bot.), the bordering cells of stomates; they are crescent-shaped and contain chlorophyll.  -- Guard chamber, a guardroom.  -- Guard detail (Mil.men from a company regiment etc., detailed for guard duty.  -- Guard duty (Mil.), the duty of watching patrolling, etc., performed by a sentinel or sentinels.  -- Guard lock (Engin.), a tide lock at the mouth of a dock or basin.  -- Guard of honor (Mil.), a guard appointed to receive or to accompany eminent persons.  -- Guard rail (Railroads), a rail placed on the inside of a main rail, on bridges, at switches, etc., as a safeguard against derailment.  -- Guard ship, a war vessel appointed to superintend the marine affairs in a harbor, and also, in the English service, to receive seamen till they can be distributed among their respective ships.  -- Life guard (Mil.), a body of select troops attending the person of a prince or high officer.  -- Off one's guard, in a careless state; inattentive; unsuspicious of danger.  -- On guard, serving in the capacity of a guard; doing duty as a guard or sentinel; watching.  -- On one's guard, in a watchful state; alert; vigilant.  -- To mount guard (Mil.), to go on duty as a guard or sentinel.  -- To run the guard, to pass the watch or sentinel without leave.  Syn.  -- Defense; shield; protection; safeguard; convoy; escort; care; attention; watch; heed. 

GUARDABLE:  Capable of being guarded or protected. 

GUARDAGE:  Wardship [Obs.] Shak. 

GUARDANT:  Same as Gardant. 

GUARDANT:  A guardian. [Obs.] Shak. 

GUARDED:  Cautious; wary; circumspect; as, he was guarded in his expressions; framed or uttered with caution; as, his expressions were guarded.  -- Guard"edly, adv.  -- Guard"ed*ness, n. 

GUARDENAGE:  Guardianship. [Obs. & R.] " His tuition and guardenage." Holland. 

GUARDER:  One who guards. 

GUARDFISH:  The garfish. 

GUARDFUL:  Cautions; wary; watchful. [Obs. or Poetic.] -- Guard"ful*ly, adv. 

GUARDHOUSE:  A building which is occupied by the guard, and in which soldiers are confined for misconduct; hence, a lock-up. 

GUARDIAN:  One who has, or is entitled to, the custody of the person or property of an infant, a minor without living parents, or a person incapable of managing his own affairs. Of the several species of guardians, the first are guardians by nature.  -- viz., the father and (in some cases) the mother of the child. Blockstone. Guardian ad litem ( (Law), a guardian appointed by a court of justice to conduct a particular suit.  -- Guardians of the poor, the members of a board appointed or elected to care for the relief of the poor within a township, or district. 

GUARDIAN:  Performing, or appropriate to, the office of a protector; as, a guardian care. Feast of Guardian Angels (R. C. Ch.) a church festival instituted by Pope Paul V., and celebrated on October 2d.  -- Guardian angel. (a) The particular spiritual being believed in some branches of the Christian church to have guardianship and protection of each human being from birth. (b) Hence, a protector or defender in general. O. W. Holmes.  -- Guardian spirit, in the belief of many pagan nations, a spirit, often of a deceased relative or friend, that presides over the interests of a household, a city, or a region. 

GUARDIANAGE:  Guardianship. [Obs.] 

GUARDIANCE:  Guardianship. [Obs.] 

GUARDIANESS:  A female guardian. I have placed a trusty, watchful guardianess. Beau. & Fl. 

GUARDIANLESS:  Without a guardian. Marston. 

GUARDIANSHIP:  The office, duty, or care, of a guardian; protection; care; watch. 

GUARDLESS:  Without a guard or defense; unguarded. Chapman. 

GUARDROOM:  The room occupied by the guard during its term of duty; also, a room where prisoners are confined. 

GUARDS:  A body of picked troops; as, "The Household Guards." 

GUARDSHIP:  Care; protection. [Obs.] Swift. 

GUARISH:  To heal. [Obs.] Spenser.  GUATEMALA GRASS Gua`te*ma"la grass". (Bot.)  See Teosinte. 

GUAVA:  A tropical tree, or its fruit, of the genus Psidium. Two varieties are well known, the P. pyriferum, or white guava, and P. pomiferum, or red guava. The fruit or berry is shaped like a pomegranate, but is much smaller. It is somewhat astringent, but makes a delicious jelly. 

GUBERNANCE:  Government. [Obs.] 

GUBERNATE:  To govern. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

GUBERNATION:  The act of governing; government [Obs.] I. Watts. 

GUBERNATIVE:  Governing. [Obs.] 

GUBERNATORIAL:  Pertaining to a governor, or to government. 

GUDGEON:  A small European freshwater fish (Gobio fluviatilis), allied to the carp. It is easily caught and often used for food and for bait. In America the killifishes or minnows are often called gudgeons.  2. What may be got without skill or merit. Fish not, with this melancholy bait, For this fool gudgeon, this opinion. Shak.  3. A person easily duped or cheated. Swift.  4. (Mach.)  The pin of iron fastened in the end of a wooden shaft or axle, on which it turns; formerly, any journal, or pivot, or bearing, as the pintle and eye of a hinge, but esp. the end journal of a horizontal.  6. (Naut.)  A metal eye or socket attached to the sternpost to receive the pintle of the rudder. Ball gudgeon. See under Ball. 

GUDGEON:  To deprive fraudulently; to cheat; to dupe; to impose upon. [R.] To be gudgeoned of the opportunities which had been given you. Sir IV. Scott. 

GUE:  A sharper; a rogue. [Obs.] J. Webstar.  GUEBER; GUEBRE Gue"ber Gue"bre, n.  Same as Gheber. 

GUELDERROSE:  A cultivated variety of a species of Viburnum (V. Opulus), bearing large bunches of white flowers; -- called also snowball tree.  GUELPH; GUELF Guelph, Guelf, n. Etym: [It. Guelfo, from Welf, the name of a German family.] (Hist.)  One of a faction in Germany and Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries, which supported the House of Guelph and the pope, and opposed the Ghibellines, or faction of the German emperors.  GUELPHIC; GUELFIC Guelph"ic, Guelf"ic, a.  Of or pertaining to the family or the facttion of the Guelphs. 

GUENON:  One of several long-tailed Oriental monkeys, of the genus Cercocebus, as the green monkey and grivet. 

GUEPARDE:  The cheetah. 

GUERDON:  A reward; requital; recompense; -- used in both a good and a bad sense. Macaulay. So young as to regard men's frown or smile As loss or guerdon of a glorious lot. Byron. He shall, by thy revenging hand, at once receive the just guerdon of all his former villainies. Knolles. 

GUERDON:  To give guerdon to; to reward; to be a recompense for. [R.] Him we gave a costly bribe To guerdon silence. Tennyson. 

GUERDONABLE:  Worthy of reward. Sir G. Buck. 

GUERDONLESS:  Without reward or guerdon. 

GUEREZA:  A beautiful Abyssinian monkey (Colobus guereza), having the body black, with a fringe of long, silky, white hair along the sides, and a tuft of the same at the end of the tail. The frontal band, cheeks, and chin are white. 

GUERILLA:  See Guerrilla. 

GUERITE:  A projecting turret for a sentry, as at the salient angles of works, or the acute angles of bastions.  GUERNSEY LILY Guern"sey lil"y. (Bot.)  A South African plant (Nerine Sarniensis) with handsome lilylike flowers, naturalized on the island of Guernsey. 

GUERRILLA:  Pertaining to, or engaged in, warfare carried on irregularly and by independent bands; as, a guerrilla party; guerrilla warfare. 

GUESS:  To make a guess or random judgment; to conjecture; -- with at, about, etc This is the place, as well as I may guess. Milton. 

GUESS:  An opinion as to anything, formed without sufficient or decisive evidence or grounds; an attempt to hit upon the truth by a random judgment; a conjecture; a surmise. A poet must confess His art 's like physic -- but a happy guess. Dryden. 

GUESSABLE:  Capable of being guessed. 

GUESSER:  One who guesses; one who forms or gives an opinion without means of knowing. 

GUESSINGLY:  By way of conjecture. Shak. 

GUESSIVE:  Conjectural. [Obs.] Feltham.  GUESS ROPE Guess" rope". (Naut.)  A guess warp.  GUESS WARP Guess" warp". (Naut.)  A rope or hawser by which a vessel is towed or warped along; -- so called because it is necessary to guess at the length to be carried in the boat making the attachment to a distant object. 

GUESSWORK:  Work performed, or results obtained, by guess; conjecture. 

GUEST:  To receive or entertain hospitably. [Obs.] Sylvester. 

GUEST:  To be, or act the part of, a guest. [Obs.] And tell me, best of princes, who he was That guested here so late. Chapman.  GUEST ROPE Guest" rope". (Naut.)  The line by which a boat makes fast to the swinging boom. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

GUESTWISE:  In the manner of a guest. 

GUEVI:  One of several very small species and varieties of African antelopes, of the genus Cephalophus, as the Cape guevi or kleeneboc (C. pyg. mæa); -- called also pygmy antelope. 

GUFFAW:  A loud burst of laughter, a horse laugh. "A hearty low guffaw." Carlyle. 

GUFFER:  The eelpout; guffer eel. 

GUGGLE:  See Gurgle. 

GUHR:  A loose, earthy deposit from water, found in the cavities or clefts of rocks, mostly white, but sometimes red or yellow, from a mixture of clay or ocher. P. Cleaveland. 

GUIAC:  Same as Guaiac. 

GUIACOL:  A colorless liquid, C6H4,OCH3.OH, resembling the phenols, found as a constituent of woodtar creosote, aud produced by the dry distillation of guaiac resin. 

GUIACUM:  Same as Guaiacum. 

GUIB:  A West African antelope (Tragelaphus scriptus), curiously marked with white stripes and spots on a reddish fawn ground, and hence called harnessed antelope; -- called also guiba. 

GUICOWAR:  [Mahratta gaekwar, prop., a cowherd.] The title of the sovereign of Guzerat, in Western India; -- generally called the Guicowar of Baroda, which is the capital of the country. 

GUIDABLE:  Capable of being guided; willing to be guided or counseled. Sprat. 

GUIDANCE:  The act or result of guiding; the superintendence or assistance of a guide; direction; government; a leading. His studies were without guidance and without plan. Macaulay. 

GUIDE:  A grooved director for a probe or knife. (c) (Printing) A strip or device to direct the compositor's eye to the line of copy he is setting.  4. (Mil.)  A noncommissioned officer or soldier placed on the directiug flank of each subdivision of a column of troops, or at the end of a line, to mark the pivots, formations, marches, and alignments in tactics. Farrow. Guide bar (Mach.), the part of a steam engine on which the crosshead slides, and by which the motion of the piston rod is kept parallel to the cylinder, being a substitute for the parallel motion; -- called also guide, and slide bar.  -- Guide block (Steam Engine), a block attached in to the crosshead to work in contact with the guide bar.  -- Guide meridian. (Surveying) See under Meridian.  -- Guide pile (Engin.), a pile driven to mark a place, as a point to work to.  -- Guide pulley (Mach.), a pulley for directing or changing the line of motion of belt; an idler. Knight.  -- Guide rail (Railroads), an additional rail, between the others, gripped by horizontal driving wheels on the locomotive, as a means of propulsion on steep gradients. 

GUIDEBOARD:  A board, as upon a guidepost having upon it directions or information as to the road. Lowell. 

GUIDEBOOK:  A book of directions and information for travelers, tourists, etc. 

GUIDELESS:  Without a guide. Dryden. 

GUIDEPOST:  A post at the fork of a road, with a guideboard on it, to direct travelers. 

GUIDER:  A guide; a director. Shak. 

GUIDERESS:  A female guide. [Obs.] Chaucer.  GUIDE ROPE Guide rope. (Aëronautics)  A rope hung from a balloon or dirigible so as trail along the ground for about half its length, used to preserve altitude automatically, by variation of the length dragging on the ground, without loss of ballast or gas. 

GUIDGUID:  A South American ant bird of the genus Hylactes; -- called also barking bird. 

GUIGE:  See Gige. 

GUILDABLE:  Liable to a tax. [Obs.] 

GUILDER:  A Dutch silver coin worth about forty cents; -- called also florin and gulden. 

GUILDHALL:  The hall where a guild or corporation usually assembles; a townhall. 

GUILE:  Craft; deceitful cunning; artifice; duplicity; wile; deceit; treachery. Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile. John i. 47. To wage by force or guile eternal war. Milton. 

GUILE:  To disguise or conceal; to deceive or delude. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GUILEFUL:  Full of guile; characterized by cunning, deceit, or treachery; guilty.  -- Guile"ful*ly, adv.  -- Guile"ful*ness, n. 

GUILELESS:  Free from guile; artless.  -- Guile"less*ly, adv. Guile"less*ness, n. 

GUILLEMET:  A quotation mark. [R.] 

GUILLEMOT:  One of several northern sea birds, allied to the auks. They have short legs, placed far back, and are expert divers and swimmers.  Note: The common guillemots, or murres, belong to the genus Uria (as U. troile); the black or foolish guillemot (Cepphus grylle, formerly Uria grylle), is called also sea pigeon and eligny. See Murre. 

GUILLEVAT:  A vat for fermenting liquors. 

GUILLOCHE:  An ornament in the form of two or more bands or strings twisted over each other in a continued series, leaving circular openings which are filled with round ornaments. 

GUILLOCHED:  Waved or engine-turned. Mollett. 

GUILLOTINE:  To behead with the guillotine. 

GUILOR:  A deceiver; one who deludes, or uses guile. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GUILTILY:  In a guilty manner. 

GUILTINESS:  The quality or state of being guilty. 

GUILTLESS:  Made sick by consciousness of guilt. "A guilt-sick conscience." Beau. c& El. 

GUILTYLIKE:  Guiltily. [Obs.] Shak. 

GUIMPE:  A kind of short chemisette, worn with a low-necked dress. 

GUINEA:  A director (usually one holding a number of directorships) who serves merely or mainly for the fee (in England, often a guinea) paid for attendance. [Colloq.] 

GUIPURE:  A term used for lace of different kinds; most properly for a lace of large pattern and heavy material which has no ground or mesh, but has the pattern held together by connecting threads called bars or brides. 

GUIRLAND:  See Garland. 

GUISER:  A person in disguise; a masker; a mummer. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

GUITAR:  A stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger, and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of catgut, -- played upon with the fingers. 

GUITGUIT:  One of several species of small tropical American birds of the family Coerebidæ, allied to the creepers; -- called also quit. See Quit. 

GULA:  A capping molding. Same as Cymatium. 

GULAR:  Pertaining to the gula or throat; as, gular plates. See Illust. of Bird, and Bowfin. 

GULAUND:  An arctic sea bird. 

GULCH:  To swallow greedily; to gulp down. [Obs.] 

GULD:  A flower. See Gold. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GULDEN:  See Guilder. 

GULE:  To give the color of gules to. 

GULE:  The throat; the gullet. [Obs.] Throats so wide and gules so gluttonous. Gauden. 

GULES:  The tincture red, indicated in seals and engraved figures of escutcheons by parallel vertical lines. Hence, used poetically for a red color or that which is red. His sev'n-fold targe a field of gules did stain In which two swords he bore; his word, "Divide and reign." P. Fletcher. Follow thy drum; With man's blood paint the ground; gules, gules. Shak. Let's march to rest and set in gules, like suns. Beau. & Fl. 

GULF:  A portion of an ocean or sea extending into the land; a partially land-locked sea; as, the Gulf of Mexico.  5. (Mining)  A large deposit of ore in a lode. Gulf Stream (Geog.), the warm ocean current of the North Atlantic.  Note: It originates in the westward equatorial current, due to the trade winds, is deflected northward by Cape St. Roque through the Gulf of Mexico, and flows parallel to the coast of North America, turning eastward off the island of Nantucket. Its average rate of flow is said to be about two miles an hour. The similar Japan current, or Kuro-Siwo, is sometimes called the Gulf Stream of the Pacific.  -- Gulf weed (Bot.), a branching seaweed (Sargassum bacciferum, or sea grape), having numerous berrylike air vessels, -- found in the Gulf Stream, in the Sargasso Sea, and elsewhere. 

GULFY:  Full of whirlpools or gulfs. Chapman. 

GULGUL:  A cement made in India from sea shells, pulverized and mixed with oil, and spread over a ship's bottom, to prevent the boring of worms. 

GULIST:  A glutton. [Obs.] 

GULL:  To deceive; to cheat; to mislead; to trick; to defraud. The rulgar, gulled into rebellion, armed. Dryden. I'm not gulling him for the emperor's service. Coleridge. 

GULL:  One of many species of long-winged sea birds of the genus Larus and allied genera.  Note: Among the best known American species are the herring gull (Larus argentatus), the great black-backed gull (L. murinus) the laughing gull (L. atricilla), and Bonaparte's gull (L. Philadelphia). The common European gull is Larus canus. Gull teaser (Zoöl.), the jager; -- also applied to certain species of terns. 

GULLAGE:  Act of being gulled. [Obs.] Had you no quirk. To avoid gullage, sir, by such a creature B. Jonson 

GULLER:  One who gulls; a deceiver. 

GULLERY:  An act, or the practice, of gulling; trickery; fraud. [R.] "A mere gullery." Selden. 

GULLET:  The tube by which food and drink are carried from the pharynx to the stomach; the esophagus.  2. Something shaped like the food passage, or performing similar functions; as: (a) A channel for water. (b) (Engin.) A preparatory cut or channel in excavations, of sufficient width for the passage of earth wagons. (c) A concave cut made in the teeth of some saw blades. 

GULLETING:  A system of excavating by means of gullets or channels. 

GULLIBLE:  Easily gulled; that may be duped.  -- Gul"li*bii`i*ty, n. Burke. 

GULLISH:  Foolish; stupid. [Obs.] Gull"ish*ness, n. [Obs.] 

GULLY:  A large knife. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

GULLY:  To wear into a gully or into gullies. 

GULLY:  To flow noisily. [Obs.] Johnson. 

GULOSITY:  Excessive appetite; greediness; voracity. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

GULP:  To swallow eagerly, or in large draughts; to swallow up; to take down at one swallow. He does not swallow, but he gulps it down. Cowper. The old man . . . glibly gulped down the whole narrative. Fielding. To gulp up, to throw up from the stomach; to disgorge. 

GULPH:  See Gulf. 

GULT:  Guilt. See Guilt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GULTY:  Guilty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GULY:  Of or pertaining to gules; red. "Those fatal guly dragons." Milton. 

GUM:  The dense tissues which invest the teeth, and cover the adjacent parts of the jaws. Gum rash (Med.), strophulus in a teething child; red gum.  -- Gum stick, a smooth hard substance for children to bite upon while teething. 

GUM:  To deepen and enlarge the spaces between the teeth of (a worn saw). See Gummer. 

GUM:  See Gum tree, below.  3. A hive made of a section of a hollow gum tree; hence, any roughly made hive; also, a vessel or bin made of a hollow log. [Southern U. S.]  4. A rubber overshoe. [Local, U. S.] Black gum, Blue gum, British gum, etc. See under Black, Blue, etc.  -- Gum Acaroidea, the resinous gum of the Australian grass tree (Xanlhorrhoea).  -- Gum animal (Zoöl.), the galago of West Africa; -- so called because it feeds on gums. See Galago.  -- Gum animi or animé. See Animé.  -- Gum arabic, a gum yielded mostly by several species of Acacia (chiefly A. vera and A. Arabica) growing in Africa and Southern Asia; -- called also gum acacia. East Indian gum arabic comes from a tree of the Orange family which bears the elephant apple.  -- Gum butea, a gum yielded by the Indian plants Butea frondosa and B. superba, and used locally in tanning and in precipitating indigo.  -- Gum cistus, a plant of the genus Cistus (Cistus ladaniferus), a species of rock rose.-- Gum dragon. See Tragacanth.  -- Gum elastic, Elastic gum. See Caoutchouc.  -- Gum elemi. See Elemi.  -- Gum juniper. See Sandarac.  -- Gum kino. See under Kino.  -- Gum lac. See Lac.  -- Gum Ladanum, a fragrant gum yielded by several Oriental species of Cistus or rock rose.  -- Gum passages, sap receptacles extending through the parenchyma of certain plants (Amygdalaceæ, Cactaceæ, etc.), and affording passage for gum.  -- Gum pot, a varnish maker's utensil for melting gum and mixing other ingredients.  -- Gum resin, the milky juice of a plant solidified by exposure to air; one of certain inspissated saps, mixtures of, or having properties of, gum and resin; a resin containing more or less mucilaginous and gummy matter.  -- Gum sandarac. See Sandarac.  -- Gum Senegal, a gum similar to gum arabic, yielded by trees (Acacia Verek and A. Adansoniä) growing in the Senegal country, West Africa.  -- Gum tragacanth. See Tragacanth.  -- Gum tree, the name given to several trees in America and Australia: (a) The black gum (Nyssa multiflora), one of the largest trees of the Southern States, bearing a small blue fruit, the favorite food of the opossum. Most of the large trees become hollow. (b) A tree of the genus Eucalyptus. See Eucalpytus. (c) The sweet gum tree of the United States (Liquidambar styraciflua), a large and beautiful tree with pointedly lobed leaves and woody burlike fruit. It exudes an aromatic terebinthine juice.  -- Gum water, a solution of gum, esp. of gum arabic, in water.  -- Gum wood, the wood of any gum tree, esp. the wood of the Eucalyptus piperita, of New South Wales. 

GUM:  To smear with gum; to close with gum; to unite or stiffen by gum or a gumlike substance; to make sticky with a gumlike substance. He frets likke a gummed velvet.Shak. 

GUM:  To exude or from gum; to become gummy. 

GUMBOIL:  A small suppurting inflamed spot on the gum. 

GUMMA:  A kind of soft tumor, usually of syphilitic origin. 

GUMMATOUS:  Belonging to, or resembling, gumma. 

GUMMER:  A punch-cutting tool, or machine for deepening and enlarging the spaces between the teeth of a worn saw. 

GUMMIFEROUS:  Producing gum; gum-bearing. 

GUMMINESS:  The state or quality of being gummy; viscousness. 

GUMMITE:  A yellow amorphous mineral, essentially a hydrated oxide of uranium derived from the alteration of uraninite. 

GUMMOSITY:  Gumminess; a viscous or adhesive quality or nature. [R.] Floyer. 

GUMMOUS:  Of or pertaining to a gumma. 

GUMMY:  Consisting of gum; viscous; adhesive; producing or containing gum; covered with gum or a substance resembling gum. Kindles the gummy bark of fir or pine. Milton. Then rubs his gummy eyes. Dryden. Gummy tumor (Med.), a gumma. 

GUMP:  A dolt; a dunce. [Low.] Holloway. 

GUN:  A piece of heavy ordnance; in a restricted sense, a cannon.  3. pl. (Naut.)  Violent blasts of wind.  Note: Guns are classified, according to their construction or manner of loading as rifled or smoothbore, breech-loading or muzzle-loading, cast or built-up guns; or according to their use, as field, mountain, prairie, seacoast, and siege guns. Armstrong gun, a wrought iron breech-loading cannon named after its English inventor, Sir William Armstrong.  -- Great gun, a piece of heavy ordnance; hence (Fig.), a person superior in any way.  -- Gun barrel, the barrel or tube of a gun.  -- Gun carriage, the carriage on which a gun is mounted or moved.  -- Gun cotton (Chem.), a general name for a series of explosive nitric ethers of cellulose, obtained by steeping cotton in nitric and sulphuric acids. Although there are formed substances containing nitric acid radicals, yet the results exactly resemble ordinary cotton in appearance. It burns without ash, with explosion if confined, but quietly and harmlessly if free and open, and in small quantity. Specifically, the lower nitrates of cellulose which are insoluble in ether and alcohol in distinction from the highest (pyroxylin) which is soluble. See Pyroxylin, and cf. Xyloidin. The gun cottons are used for blasting and somewhat in gunnery: for making celluloid when compounded with camphor; and the soluble variety (pyroxylin) for making collodion. See Celluloid, and Collodion. Gun cotton is frequenty but improperly called nitrocellulose. It is not a nitro compound, but an ethereal salt of nitric acid.  -- Gun deck. See under Deck.  -- Gun fire, the time at which the morning or the evening gun is fired.  -- Gun metal, a bronze, ordinarily composed of nine parts of copper and one of tin, used for cannon, etc. The name is also given to certain strong mixtures of cast iron.  -- Gun port (Naut.), an opening in a ship through which a cannon's muzzle is run out for firing.  -- Gun tackle (Naut.), the blocks and pulleys affixed to the side of a ship, by which a gun carriage is run to and from the gun port.  -- Gun tackle purchase (Naut.), a tackle composed of two single blocks and a fall. Totten.  -- Krupp gun, a wrought steel breech-loading cannon, named after its German inventor, Herr Krupp.  -- Machine gun, a breech-loading gun or a group of such guns, mounted on a carriage or other holder, and having a reservoir containing cartridges which are loaded into the gun or guns and fired in rapid succession, sometimes in volleys, by machinery operated by turning a crank. Several hundred shots can be fired in a minute with accurate aim. The Gatling gun, Gardner gun, Hotchkiss gun, and Nordenfelt gun, named for their inventors, and the French mitrailleuse, are machine guns.  -- To blow great guns (Naut.), to blow a gale. See Gun, n., 3. 

GUN:  To practice fowling or hunting small game; -- chiefly in participial form; as, to go gunning. 

GUNA:  In Sanskrit grammar, a lengthening of the simple vowels a, i, e, by prefixing an a element. The term is sometimes used to denote the same vowel change in other languages. 

GUNARCHY:  See Gynarchy. 

GUNBOAT:  A vessel of light draught, carrying one or more guns. 

GUNCOTTON:  See under Gun. 

GUNDELET:  See Gondola. Marston. 

GUNFLINT:  A sharpened flint for the lock of a gun, to ignite the charge. It was in common use before the introduction of percussion caps. 

GUNJAH:  See Ganja. 

GUNLOCK:  The lock of a gun, for producing the discharge. See Lock. 

GUNNAGE:  The number of guns carried by a ship of war. 

GUNNEL:  A small, eel-shaped, marine fish of the genus Murænoides; esp., M. gunnellus of Europe and America; -- called also gunnel fish, butterfish, rock eel. 

GUNNERY:  That branch of military science which comprehends the theory of projectiles, and the manner of constructing and using ordnance. 

GUNNIE:  Space left by the removal of ore. 

GUNNING:  The act or practice of hunting or shooting game with a gun. The art of gunning was but little practiced. Goldsmith.  GUNNY; GUNNY CLOTH Gun"ny, n., Gun"ny cloth` (. Etym: [Hind. gon, gon,, a sack, sacking.]  A strong, coarse kind of sacking, made from the fibers (called jute) of two plants of the genus Corchorus (C. olitorius and C. capsularis), of India. The fiber is also used in the manufacture of cordage. Gunny bag, a sack made of gunny, used for coarse commodities. 

GUNOCRACY:  See Gyneocracy. 

GUNPOWDER:  A black, granular, explosive substance, consisting of an intimate mechanical mixture of niter, charcoal, and sulphur. It is used in gunnery and blasting.  Note: Gunpowder consists of from 70 to 80 per cent of niter, with 10 to 15 per cent of each of the other ingredients. Its explosive energy is due to the fact that it contains the necessary amount of oxygen for its own combustion, and liberates gases (chiefly nitrogen and carbon dioxide), which occupy a thousand or fifteen hundred times more space than the powder which generated them. Gunpowder pile driver, a pile driver, the hammer of which is thrown up by the explosion of gunpowder.  -- Gunpowder plot (Eng. Hist.), a plot to destroy the King, Lords, and Commons, in revenge for the penal laws against Catholics. As Guy Fawkes, the agent of the conspirators, was about to fire the mine, which was placed under the House of Lords, he was seized, Nov. 5, 1605. Hence, Nov. 5 is known in England as Guy Fawkes Day.  -- Gunpowder tea, a species of fine green tea, each leaf of which is rolled into a small ball or pellet. 

GUNREACH:  The reach or distance to which a gun will shoot; gunshot. 

GUNROOM:  An apartment on the after end of the lower gun deck of a ship of war, usually occupied as a messroom by the commissioned officers, except the captain; -- called wardroom in the United States navy. 

GUNSHOT:  Made by the shot of a gun: as. a gunshot wound. 

GUNSMITH:  One whose occupation is to make or repair small firearms; an armorer.  GUNSMITHERY; GUNSMITH; GUNSMITHING Gunsmith`er*y, Gun"smith` ing, n.  The art or business of a gunsmith. 

GUNSTICK:  A stick to ram down the charge of a musket, etc.; a rammer or ramrod. [R.] 

GUNSTOCK:  The stock or wood to which the barrel of a hand gun is fastened. 

GUNSTOME:  A cannon ball; -- so called because originally made of stone. [Obs.] Shak.  GUNTER RIG Gun"ter rig`. (Naut.)  A topmast arranged with metal bands so that it will readily slide up and down the lower mast.  GUNTER'S CHAIN Gun"ter's chain`. (Surveying)  The chain ordinarily used in measuring land. See Chain, n., 4, and Gunter's scale.  GUNTER'S LINE Gun"ter's line`.  A logarithmic line on Gunter's scale, used for performing the multiplication and division of numbers mechanically by the dividers; -- called also line of lines, and line of numbers.  GUNTER'S QUADRANT Gun"ter's quad`rant.  A thin quadrant, made of brass, wood, etc., showing a stereographic projection on the plane of the equator. By it are found the hour of the day, the sun's azimuth, the altitude of objects in degrees, etc. See Gunter's scale.  GUNTER'S SCALE Gun"ter's scale`.  A scale invented by the Rev. Edmund Gunter (1581-1626), a professor of astronomy at Gresham College, London, who invented also Gunter's chain, and Gunter's quadrant.  Note: Gunter's scale is a wooden rule, two feet long, on one side of which are marked scales of equal parts, of chords, sines, tangents, rhombs, etc., and on the other side scales of logarithms of these various parts, by means of which many problems in surveying and navigation may be solved, mechanically, by the aid of dividers alone. 

GUNWALE:  The upper edge of a vessel's or boat's side; the uppermost wale of a ship (not including the bulwarks); or that piece of timber which reaches on either side from the quarter-deck to the forecastle, being the uppermost bend, which finishes the upper works of the hull. [Written also gunnel.] 

GURGE:  A whirlpool. [Obs.] The plain, wherein a black bituminous gurge Boils out from under ground. Milton. 

GURGE:  To swallow up. [Obs.] 

GURGEONS:  See Grudgeons. 

GURGLE:  To run or flow in a broken, irregular, noisy current, as water from a bottle, or a small stream among pebbles or stones. Pure gurgling rills the lonely desert trace, And waste their music on the savage race. Young. 

GURGLE:  The act of gurgling; a broken, bubbling noise. "Tinkling gurgles." W. Thompson. 

GURGLET:  A porous earthen jar for cooling water by evaporation. 

GURGLINGLY:  In a gurgling manner. 

GURGOYLE:  See Gargoyle. 

GURJUN:  A thin balsam or wood oil derived from the Diptcrocarpus lævis, an East Indian tree. It is used in medicine, and as a substitute for linseed oil in the coarser kinds of paint. 

GURL:  A young person of either sex. [Obs.] See Girl. Chaucer. 

GURLET:  A pickax with one sharp point and one cutting edge. Knight. 

GURMY:  A level; a working.  GURNARD; GURNET Gur"nard, Gur"net n. Etym: [OF. gornal, gournal, gornart, perh. akin to F. grogner to grunt; cf. Ir. guirnead gurnard.] (Zoöl.)  One ofseveral European marine fishes, of the genus Trigla and allied genera, having a large and spiny head, with mailed cheeks. Some of the species are highly esteemed for food. The name is sometimes applied to the American sea robins. [Written also gournet.] Plyling gurnard. See under Flying. 

GURNIAD:  See Gwiniad. 

GURRY:  An alvine evacuation; also, refuse matter. [Obs. or Local] Holland. 

GURRY:  A small fort. [India] 

GURT:  A gutter or channel for water, hewn out of the bottom of a working drift. Page. 

GURTS:  Groatts. [Obs.] 

GUSHER:  One who gushes. [Colloq.] 

GUSHINGLY:  , adv.  1. In a gushing manner; copiously. Byron.  2. Weakly; sentimentally; effusively. [Colloq.] 

GUSSET:  An abatement or mark of dishonor in a coat of arms, resembling a gusset. 

GUST:  To taste; to have a relish for. [Obs.] 

GUSTABLE:  Anything that can be tasted. [Obs.] 

GUSTARD:  The great bustard. 

GUSTATION:  The act of tasting. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

GUSTATORY:  Pertaining to, or subservient to, the sense of taste; as, the gustatory nerve which supplies the front of the tongue. 

GUSTFUL:  Tasteful; well-tasted. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.  -- Gust"ful*ness, n. [Obs.] Barrow. 

GUSTFUL:  Gusty. [R.] A gustful April morn. Tennyson. 

GUSTLESS:  Tasteless; insipid. [R.] 

GUSTO:  Nice or keen appreciation or enjoyment; relish; taste; fancy. Dryden. 

GUSTOSO:  Tasteful; in a tasteful, agreeable manner. 

GUSTY:  Subject to, or characterized by, gusts or squalls; windy; stormy; tempestuous. Upon a raw and gusty day. Shak. 

GUTTA:  One of a series of ornaments, in the form of a frustum of a cone, attached to the lower part of the triglyphs, and also to the lower faces of the mutules, in the Doric order; -- called also campana, and drop. Gutta serena Etym: [L., lit. serene or clear drop] (Med.), amaurosis.  -- Guttæ band (Arch.), the listel or band from which the guttæ hang.  GUTTA-PERCHA Gut"ta-per`cha, n. Etym: [Malay gutah gum + pertja the tree from which is it procured.]  A concrete juice produced by various trees found in the Malayan archipelago, especially by the Isonandra, or Dichopsis, Gutta. It becomes soft, and unpressible at the tamperature of boiling water, and, on cooling, retains its new shape. It dissolves in oils and ethers, but not in water. In many of its properties it resembles caoutchouc, and it is extensively used for many economical purposes. The Mimusops globosa of Guiana also yields this material. 

GUTTATE:  Spotted, as if discolored by drops. 

GUTTATED:  Besprinkled with drops, or droplike spots. Bailey. 

GUTTATRAP:  The inspissated juice of a tree of the genus Artocarpus (A. incisa, or breadfruit tree), sometimes used in making birdlime, on account of its glutinous quality. 

GUTTER:  To become channeled, as a candle when the flame flares in the wind. 

GUTTIFER:  A plant that exudes gum or resin. 

GUTTIFORM:  Drop-shaped, as a spot of color. 

GUTTLE:  To put into the gut; to swallow greedily; to gorge; to gormandize. [Obs.] L'Estrange. Dryden. 

GUTTLER:  A greedy eater; a glutton. [Obs.] 

GUTTULOUS:  In droplike form. [Obs.] In its [hail's] guttulous descent from the air. Sir T. Browne. 

GUTTURAL:  Of or pertaining to the throat; formed in the throat; relating to, or characteristic of, a sound formed in the throat. Children are occasionally born with guttural swellings. W. Guthrie. In such a sweet, guttural accent. Landor. 

GUTTURAL:  A sound formed in the throat; esp., a sound formed by the aid of the back of the tongue, much retracted, and the soft palate; also, a letter representing such a sound. 

GUTTURALISM:  The quality of being guttural; as, the gutturalism of A [in the 16th cent.] Earle. 

GUTTURALITY:  The quality of being guttural. [R.] "The old gutturality of k." Earle. 

GUTTURALIZE:  To speak gutturally; to give a guttural sound to. 

GUTTURALLY:  In a guttural manner. 

GUTTURALNESS:  The quality of being guttural. 

GUTTURINE:  Pertaining to the throat. [Obs.] "Gutturine tumor." Ray. 

GUTTURIZE:  To make in the throat; to gutturalize. [R.] For which the Germans gutturize a sound. Coleridge.  GUTTURO- Gut"tur*o-.  A combining form denoting relation to the throat; as, gutturo- nasal, having both a guttural and a nasal character; gutturo-palatal. 

GUTTY:  Charged or sprinkled with drops. 

GUTWORT:  A plant, Globularia Alypum, a violent purgative, found in Africa. 

GUY:  A rope, chain, or rod attached to anything to steady it; as: a rope to steady or guide an object which is being hoisted or lowered; a rope which holds in place the end of a boom, spar, or yard in a ship; a chain or wire rope connecting a suspension bridge with the land on either side to prevent lateral swaying; a rod or rope attached to the top of a structure, as of a derrick, and extending obliquely to the ground, where it is fastened. 

GUY:  To steady or guide with a guy. 

GUY:  To fool; to baffle; to make (a person) an object of ridicule. [Local & Collog U.S.] 

GUYLE:  To guile. [Obs.] Spenser. 

GUZE:  A roundlet of tincture sanguine, which is blazoned without mention of the tincture. 

GUZZLE:  To swallow liquor greedily; to drink much or frequently. Those that came to guzzle in his wine cellar. Milton. Well-seasoned bowls the gossip's spirits raise, Who, while she guzzles, chats the doctor's praise. Roscommon. To fat the guzzling hogs with floods of whey. Gay. 

GUZZLE:  To swallow much or often; to swallow with immoderate gust; to drink greedily or continually; as, one who guzzles beer. Dryden. 

GUZZLE:  An insatiable thing or person. That sink of filth, that guzzle most impure. Marston. 

GUZZLER:  An immoderate drinker. 

GWINIAD:  A fish (Coregonus ferus) of North Wales and Northern Europe, allied to the lake whitefish; -- called also powan, and schelly. [Written also gwyniad, guiniad, gurniad.] 

GYALL:  See Gayal.  GYB; GYBE Gyb, Gybe (, n. (Naut.)  See Jib. [Obs.] 

GYBE:  See Gibe. 

GYBE:  To shift from one side of a vessel to the other; -- said of the boom of a fore-and-aft sail when the vessel is steered off the wind until the sail fills on the opposite side. [Also jibe.] 

GYE:  To guide; to govern. [Obs.] Discreet enough his country for to gye. Chaucer. 

GYLE:  Fermented wort used for making vinegar. Gyle tan (Brewing), a large vat in which wort ferments. 

GYMNAL:  Same as Gimmal. 

GYMNASIARCH:  An Athenian officer who superintended the gymnasia, and provided the oil and other necessaries at his own expense. 

GYMNAST:  One who teaches or practices gymnastic exercises; the manager of a gymnasium; an athlete.  GYMNASTIC; GYMNASTICAL Gym*nas"tic, Gym*nas"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. gymnasticus, Gr. gymnastique. See Gymnasium.]  Pertaining to athletic exercises intended for health, defense, or diversion; -- said of games or exercises, as running, leaping, wrestling, throwing the discus, the javelin, etc.; also, pertaining to disciplinary exercises for the intellect; athletic; as, gymnastic exercises, contests, etc. 

GYMNASTIC:  A gymnast. [Obs.] 

GYMNASTICALLY:  In a gymnastic manner. 

GYMNASTICS:  Athletic or disciplinary exercises; the art of performing gymnastic exercises; also, disciplinary exercises for the intellect or character.  GYMNIC; GYMNICAL Gym"nic, Gym"nic*al a. Etym: [L. gymnicus, Gr. gymnique. See Gymmasium.]  Athletic; gymnastic. [Obs.] Have they not swordplayers, and every sort Of gymnic artists, wrestlers, riders, runners Milton. 

GYMNIC:  Athletic exercise. [Obs.] Burton. 

GYMNITE:  A hydrous silicate of magnesia. 

GYMNOBLASTEA:  The Athecata; -- so called because the medusoid buds are not inclosed in a capsule. 

GYMNOBLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to the Gymnoblastea. 

GYMNOCARPOUS:  Naked-fruited, the fruit either smooth or not adherent to the perianth. Gray. 

GYMNOCHROA:  A division of Hydroidea including the hydra. See Hydra. 

GYMNOCLADUS:  A genus of leguminous plants; the Kentucky coffee tree. The leaves are cathartic, and the seeds a substitute for coffee. 

GYMNOCOPA:  A group of transparent, free-swimming Annelida, having setae only in the cephalic appendages. 

GYMNOCYTE:  (Biol.) A cytode without a proper cell wall, but with a nucleus. Haeckel. 

GYMNOCYTODE:  A cytode without either a cell wall or a nucleus. Haeckel. 

GYMNODONT:  One of a group of plectognath fishes (Gymnodontes), having the teeth and jaws consolidated into one or two bony plates, on each jaw, as the diodonts and tetradonts. See Bur fish, Globefish, Diodon. 

GYMNOGEN:  One of a class of plants, so called by Lindley, because the ovules are fertilized by direct contact of the pollen. Same as Gymnosperm. 

GYMNOGLOSSA:  A division of gastropods in which the odontophore is without teeth.  GYMNOLAEMA; GYMNOLAEMATA Gym"no*læ`ma, Gym*no*læ"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [Nl., fr. Gr. gymno`s naked + (Zoöl.)  An order of Bryozoa, having no epistome. 

GYMNONOTI:  The order of fishes which includes the Gymnotus or electrical eel. The dorsal fin is wanting. 

GYMNOPAEDIC:  Having young that are naked when hatched; psilopædic; -- said of certain birds. 

GYMNOPHIONA:  An order of Amphibia, having a long, annulated, snakelike body. See Ophiomorpha. 

GYMNOPHTHALMATA:  A group of acalephs, including the naked-eyed medusæ; the hydromedusæ. Most of them are known to be the free-swimming progeny (gonophores) of hydroids. 

GYMNOPLAST:  A cell or mass of protoplasm devoid of an envelope, as a white blood corpuscle. 

GYMNORHINAL:  Having unfeathered nostrils, as certain birds. 

GYMNOSOMATA:  One of the orders of Pteropoda. They have no shell. 

GYMNOSOPHIST:  One of a sect of philosophers, said to have been found in India by Alexander the Great, who went almost naked, denied themselves the use of flesh, renounced bodily pleasures, and employed themselves in the contemplation of nature. 

GYMNOSOPHY:  The doctrines of the Gymnosophists. Good. 

GYMNOSPERM:  A plant that bears naked seeds (i. e., seeds not inclosed in an ovary), as the common pine and hemlock. Cf. Angiosperm. 

GYMNOTOKA:  The Athecata. 

GYMNOTUS:  A genus of South American fresh-water fishes, including the Gymnotus electricus, or electric eel. It has a greenish, eel-like body, and is possessed of electric power. One fearful shock, fearful but momentary, like from the electric blow of the gymnotus. De Quincey. 

GYN:  To begin [Obs.] See Gin.  GYNAECEUM; GYNAECIUM Gyn`æ*ce"um, Gyn`æ*ci"um, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.  The part of a large house, among the ancients, exclusively appropriated to women. [Written also gyneceum, gynecium.] Tennyson. 

GYNAECIAN:  The same as Gynecian. 

GYNAECOPHORE:  A ventral canal or groove, in which the males of some dioecious trematodes carry the female. See Illust. of Hæmatozoa. 

GYNANDER:  A plant having the stamens inserted in the pistil. 

GYNANDRIA:  A class of plants in the Linnaean system, whose stamens grow out of, or are united with, the pistil.  GYNANDRIAN; GYNANDROUS Gy*nan"dri*an, Gy*nan"drous, a. Etym: [Gr. gy`nandros of doubtful sex; gynh` a woman + gynandre.] (Bot.)  Having stamens inserted in the pistil; belonging to the class Gynandria. 

GYNANDROMORPH:  An animal affected with gynandromorphism, 

GYNANDROMORPHISM:  An abnormal condition of certain animals, in which one side has the external characters of the male, and the other those of the female. 

GYNANDROMORPHOUS:  Affected, with gynandromorphism. 

GYNANTHEROUS:  Pertaining to an abnormal condition of the flower, in which the stamens are converted into pistils. A. Brown. 

GYNARCHY:  Government by a woman. Chesterfield. 

GYNECEUM:  See Gynæceum. 

GYNECIAN:  Of or relating to women. 

GYNECOCRACY:  Government by a woman, female power; gyneocracy. Bailey. 

GYNECOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to gynecology. 

GYNECOLOGY:  The science which treats of the structure and diseases of women.  -- Gyn`e*col"o*gist. 

GYNEOCRACY:  See Gynecocracy. 

GYNEOLATRY:  The adoration or worship of woman. The sentimental gyneolatry of chivalry, which was at best but skin- deep. Lowell. 

GYNEPHOBIA:  Hatred of women; repugnance to the society of women. Holmes. 

GYNNO:  To begin. See Gin. [Obs.] 

GYNOBASE:  A dilated base or receptacle, supporting a multilocular ovary. 

GYNOBASIC:  Pertaining to, or having, a gynobase. 

GYNOCRACY:  Female government; gynecocracy. The aforesaid state has repeatedly changed from absolute despotism to republicanism, not forgetting the intermediate stages of oligarchy, limited monarchy, and even gynocracy; for I myself remember Alsatia governed for nearly nine months by an old fishwoman. Sir H. Scott. 

GYNODIOECIOUS:  Dioecious, but having some hermaphrodite or perfect flowers on an individual plant which bears mostly pistillate flowers. 

GYNOECIUM:  The pistils of a flower, taken collectively. See Illust. of Carpophore. 

GYNOPHORE:  The pedicel raising the pistil or ovary above the stamens, as in the passion flower. Lindley.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the branches bearing the female gonophores, in certain Siphonophora. 

GYP:  A college servant; -- so called in Cambridge, England; at Oxford called a scout. [Cant] 

GYPSE:  See Gypsum. [Obs.] Pococke. 

GYPSEOUS:  Resembling or containing gypsum; partaking of the qualities of gypsum. 

GYPSEY:  A gypsy. See Gypsy. 

GYPSIFEROUS:  Containing gypsum. 

GYPSINE:  Gypseous. [R.] Chambers. 

GYPSOGRAPHY:  The act or art of engraving on gypsum. 

GYPSOPLAST:  A cast taken in plaster of Paris, or in white lime. 

GYPSUM:  A mineral consisting of the hydrous sulphate of lime (calcium). When calcined, it forms plaster of Paris. Selenite is a transparent, crystalline variety; alabaster, a fine, white, massive variety. 

GYPSY:  Pertaining to, or suitable for, gypsies. Gypsy hat, a woman's or child's broad-brimmed hat, usually of straw or felt.  -- Gypsy winch, a small winch, which may be operated by a crank, or by a ratchet and pawl through a lever working up and down. 

GYPSY:  To play the gypsy; to picnic in the woods. Mostly. Gyp"sy*ing, vb. n. 

GYPSYISM:  A tussock moth (Ocneria dispar) native of the Old World, but accidentally introduced into eastern Massachusetts about 1869, where its caterpillars have done great damage to fruit, shade, and forest trees of many kinds. The male gypsy moth is yellowish brown, the female white, and larger than the male. In both sexes the wings are marked by dark lines and a dark lunule. The caterpillars, when full- grown, have a grayish mottled appearance, with blue tubercles on the anterior and red tubercles on the posterior part of the body, all giving rise to long yellow and black hairs. They usually pupate in July and the moth appears in August. The eggs are laid on tree trunks, rocks, etc., and hatch in the spring. 

GYPSYWORT:  A labiate plant (the Lycopus Europæus). Gypsies are said to stain their skin with its juice. 

GYRACANTHUS:  A genus of fossil fishes, found in Devonian and carboniferous strata; -- so named from their round, sculptured spines. 

GYRAL:  Pertaining to a gyrus, or convolution. 

GYRANT:  Gyrating. [R.] 

GYRATE:  Winding or coiled round; curved into a circle; taking a circular course. 

GYRATE:  To revolve round a central point; to move spirally about an axis, as a tornado; to revolve. 

GYRATION:  One of the whorls of a spiral univalve shell. Center of gyration. (Mech.) See under Center.  -- Radius of gyration the distance between the axis of a rotating body and its center of gyration. Rankine. 

GYRATORY:  Moving in a circle, or spirally; revolving; whirling around. 

GYRE:  A circular motion, or a circle described by a moving body; a turn or revolution; a circuit. Quick and more quick he spins in giddy gyres. Dryden. Still expanding and ascending gyres. Mrs. Browning. 

GYRE:  To turn round; to gyrate. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. Drayton. 

GYREFUL:  Abounding in gyres. [Obs.] 

GYRENCEPHALA:  The higher orders of Mammalia, in which the cerebrum is convoluted.  -- Gyr"en*ceph"a*lous, a. 

GYRFALCON:  One of several species and varieties of large Arctic falcons, esp. Falco rusticolus and the white species F. Islandicus, both of which are circumpolar. The black and the gray are varieties of the former. See Illust. of Accipiter. [Written also gerfalcon, gierfalcon, and jerfalcon.] 

GYRI:  See Gyrus. 

GYRLAND:  To garland. [Obs.] 

GYRODUS:  A genus of extinct oölitic fishes, having rounded teeth in several rows adapted for crushing. 

GYROGONITE:  The petrified fruit of the Chara hispida, a species of stonewort. See Stonewort. Lyell. 

GYROIDAL:  Having the planes arranged spirally, so that they incline all to the right (or left) of a vertical line; -- said of certain hemihedral forms.  3. (Opt.)  Turning the plane of polarization circularly or spirally to the right or left. 

GYROLEPIS:  A genus of ganoid fishes, found in strata of the new red sandetone, and the lias bone beds. Agassiz. 

GYROMA:  A turning round. [R.] 

GYROMANCY:  A kind of divination performed by drawing a ring or circle, and walking in or around it. Brande & C. 

GYRON:  A subordinary of triangular form having one of its angles at the fess point and the opposite aide at the edge of the escutcheon. When there is only one gyron on the shield it is bounded by two linea drawn from the fess point, one horizontally to the dexter side, and one to the dexter chief corner. 

GYRONNY:  Covered with gyrons, or divided so as to form several gyrons; - - said of an escutcheon.  GYROPIGEON; GYRO-PIGEON Gy"ro*pi"geon, n. Etym: [L. gyrare to revolve + E. pigeon.]  A flying object simulating a pigeon in flight, when projected from a spring trap. It is used as a flying target in shooting matches. Knight. 

GYROSCOPIC:  Pertaining to the gyroscope; resembling the motion of the gyroscope. 

GYROSE:  Turned round like a crook, or bent to and fro. Loudon. 

GYROSTAT:  A modification of the gyroscope, consisting essentially of a fly wheel fixed inside a rigid case to which is attached a thin flange of metal for supporting the instrument. It is used in studying the dynamics of rotating bodies. 

GYROSTATIC:  Of or pertaining to the gyrostat or to gyrostatics. 

GYROSTATICS:  The doctrine or theory of the gyrostat, or of the phenomena of rotating bodies. 

GYRUS:  A convoluted ridge between grooves; a convolution; as, the gyri of the brain; the gyri of brain coral. See Brain. 

GYSE:  Guise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

GYTE:  Delirious; senselessly extravagant; as, the man is clean gyte. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

GYVE:  A shackle; especially, one to confine the legs; a fetter. [Written also give.] Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves. Shak. With gyves upon his wrist. Hood. 

GYVE:  To fetter; to shackle; to chain. Spenser. I will gyve thee in thine own courtship. Shak. 

H:  the eighth letter of the English alphabet, is classed among the consonants, and is formed with the mouth organs in the same position as that of the succeeding vowel. It is used with certain consonants to form digraphs representing sounds which are not found in the alphabet, as sh, th, th, as in shall, thing, thine (for zh see §274); also, to modify the sounds of some other letters, as when placed after c and p, with the former of which it represents a compound sound like that of tsh, as in charm (written also tch as in catch), with the latter, the sound of f, as in phase, phantom. In some words, mostly derived or introduced from foreign languages, h following c and g indicates that those consonants have the hard sound before e, i, and y, as in chemistry, chiromancy, chyle, Ghent, Ghibelline, etc.; in some others, ch has the sound of sh, as in chicane. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 153, 179, 181-3, 237-8.  Note: The name (aitch) is from the French ache; its form is from the Latin, and this from the Greek H, which was used as the sign of the spiritus asper (rough breathing) before it came to represent the long vowel, Gr. ê. The Greek H is from Phoenician, the ultimate origin probably being Egyptian. Etymologically H is most closely related to c; as in E. horn, L. cornu, Gr. ke`ras; E. hele, v. t., conceal; E. hide, L. cutis, Gr. ky`tos; E. hundred, L. centum, Gr. 'e-kat-on, Skr. csata. H piece (Mining), the part of a plunger pump which contains the valve. 

H:  The seventh degree in the diatonic scale, being used by the Germans for B natural. See B. 

HA:  An exclamation denoting surprise, joy, or grief. Both as uttered and as written, it expresses a great variety of emotions, determined by the tone or the context. When repeated, ha, ha, it is an expression of laughter, satisfaction, or triumph, sometimes of derisive laughter; or sometimes it is equivalent to "Well, it is so." Ha-has, and inarticulate hootings of satirical rebuke. Carlyle. 

HAAF:  The deepsea fishing for cod, ling, and tusk, off the Shetland Isles. 

HAAK:  A sea fish. See Hake. Ash. 

HAAR:  A fog; esp., a fog or mist with a chill wind. [Scot.] T. Chalmers.  HABEAS CORPUS Ha"be*as corpus. Etym: [L. you may have the body.] (Law)  A writ having for its object to bring a party before a court or judge; especially, one to inquire into the cause of a person's imprisonment or detention by another, with the view to protect the right to personal liberty; also, one to bring a prisoner into court to testify in a pending trial. Bouvier. 

HABENDUM:  That part of a deed which follows the part called the premises, and determines the extent of the interest or estate granted; -- so called because it begins with the word Habendum. Kent. 

HABERDASH:  To deal in small wares. [R.] To haberdash in earth's base ware. Quarles. 

HABERDASHERY:  The goods and wares sold by a haberdasher; also (Fig.), trifles. Burke. 

HABERDINE:  A cod salted and dried. Ainsworth. 

HABERGEON:  Properly, a short hauberk, but often used loosely for the hauberk. Chaucer. 

HABILATORY:  Of or pertaining to clothing; wearing clothes. Ld. Lytton. 

HABILE:  Fit; qualified; also, apt. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HABILIMENT:  Dress, in general. Shak. 

HABILIMENTED:  Clothed. Taylor (1630). 

HABILITATE:  Qualified or entitled. [Obs.] Bacon. 

HABILITATE:  To fit out; to equip; to qualify; to entitle. Johnson. 

HABILITATION:  Equipment; qualification. [Obs.] Bacon. 

HABILITY:  Ability; aptitude. [Obs.] Robynson. (More's Utopia). 

HABIT:  The general appearance and manner of life of a living organism.  3. Fixed or established custom; ordinary course of conduct; practice; usage; hence, prominently, the involuntary tendency or aptitude to perform certain actions which is acquired by their frequent repetition; as, habit is second nature; also, peculiar ways of acting; characteristic forms of behavior. A man of very shy, retired habits. W. Irving.  4. Outward appearance; attire; dress; hence, a garment; esp., a closely fitting garment or dress worn by ladies; as, a riding habit. Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy. Shak. There are, among the states, several of Venus, in different habits. Addison.  Syn.  -- Practice; mode; manner; way; custom; fashion.  -- Habit, Custom. Habit is a disposition or tendency leading us to do easily, naturally, and with growing certainty, what we do often; custom is external, being habitual use or the frequent repetition of the same act. The two operate reciprocally on each other. The custom of giving produces a habit of liberality; habits of devotion promote the custom of going to church. Custom also supposes an act of the will, selecting given modes of procedure; habit is a law of our being, a kind of "second nature" which grows up within us. How use doth breed a habit in a man ! Shak. He who reigns . . . upheld by old repute, Consent, or custom. Milton. 

HABITABILITY:  Habitableness. 

HABITABLE:  Capable of being inhabited; that may be inhabited or dwelt in; as, the habitable world.  -- Hab"it*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Hab"it*a*bly, adv. 

HABITABLE:  A dwelling place. Chaucer. Southey. 

HABITAN:  Same as Habitant, 2. General met an emissary . . . sent . . . to ascertain the feelings of the habitans or French yeomanry. W. Irwing. 

HABITANCE:  Dwelling; abode; residence. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HABITANCY:  Same as Inhabitancy. 

HABITANT:  An inhabitant or resident; -- a name applied to and denoting farmers of French descent or origin in Canada, especially in the Province of Quebec; -- usually in plural. The habitants or cultivators of the soil. Parkman. 

HABITAT:  The natural abode, locality or region of an animal or plant.  2. Place where anything is commonly found. This word has its habitat in Oxfordshire. Earle. 

HABITATOR:  A dweller; an inhabitant. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

HABITUATE:  Firmly established by custom; formed by habit; habitual. [R.] Hammond. 

HABITUATION:  The act of habituating, or accustoming; the state of being habituated. 

HABITUE:  One who habitually frequents a place; as, an habitué of a theater. 

HABITURE:  Habitude. [Obs.] 

HABITUS:  Habitude; mode of life; general appearance. 

HABLE:  See Habile. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HABNAB:  By chance. [Obs.] 

HACHURE:  A short line used in drawing and engraving, especially in shading and denoting different surfaces, as in map drawing. See Hatching. 

HACIENDA:  A large estate where work of any kind is done, as agriculture, manufacturing, mining, or raising of animals; a cultivated farm, with a good house, in distinction from a farming establishment with rude huts for herdsmen, etc.; -- a word used in Spanish-American regions. 1. 

HACK:  To cough faintly and frequently, or in a short, broken manner; as, a hacking cough. 

HACK:  A kick on the shins. T. Hughes. Hack saw, a handsaw having a narrow blade stretched in an iron frame, for cutting metal. 

HACK:  Hackneyed; hired; mercenary. Wakefield. Hack writer, a hack; one who writes for hire. "A vulgar hack writer." Macaulay. 

HACKAMORE:  A halter consisting of a long leather or rope strap and headstall, -- used for leading or tieing a pack animal. [Western U.S.] 

HACKBERRY:  A genus of trees (Celtis) related to the elm, but bearing drupes with scanty, but often edible, pulp. C. occidentalis is common in the Eastern United States. Gray. 

HACKBOLT:  The greater shearwater or hagdon. See Hagdon. 

HACKBUSS:  Same as Hagbut. 

HACKEE:  The chipmunk; also, the chickaree or red squirrel. [U.S.] 

HACKER:  One who, or that which, hacks. Specifically: A cutting instrument for making notches; esp., one used for notching pine trees in collecting turpentine; a hack. 

HACKERY:  A cart with wooden wheels, drawn by bullocks. [Bengal] Malcom. 

HACKLY:  Having fine, short, and sharp points on the surface; as, the hackly fracture of metallic iron. 

HACKMAN:  The driver of a hack or carriage for public hire. 

HACKMATACK:  The American larch (Larix Americana), a coniferous tree with slender deciduous leaves; also, its heavy, close-grained timber. Called also tamarack. 

HACKNEY:  Let out for hire; devoted to common use; hence, much used; trite; mean; as, hackney coaches; hackney authors. "Hackney tongue." Roscommon. 

HACKNEYMAN:  A man who lets horses and carriages for hire. 

HACKSTER:  A bully; a bravo; a ruffian; an assassin. [Obs.] Milton. 

HACQUETON:  Same as Acton. [Obs.] 

HAD:  See Have. Had as lief, Had rather, Had better, Had as soon, etc., with a nominative and followed by the infinitive without to, are well established idiomatic forms. The original construction was that of the dative with forms of be, followed by the infinitive. See Had better, under Better. And lever me is be pore and trewe. [And more agreeable to me it is to be poor and true.] C. Mundi (Trans. ). Him had been lever to be syke. [To him it had been preferable to be sick.] Fabian. For him was lever have at his bed's head Twenty bookes, clad in black or red, . . . Than robes rich, or fithel, or gay sawtrie. Chaucer.  Note: Gradually the nominative was substituted for the dative, and had for the forms of be. During the process of transition, the nominative with was or were, and the dative with had, are found. Poor lady, she were better love a dream. Shak. You were best hang yourself. Beau. & Fl. Me rather had my heart might feel your love Than my unpleased eye see your courtesy. Shak. I hadde levere than my scherte, That ye hadde rad his legende, as have I. Chaucer. I had as lief not be as live to be In awe of such a thing as I myself. Shak. I had rather be a dog and bay the moon, Than such a Roman. Shak. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. Ps. lxxxiv.10. 

HADDER:  Heather; heath. [Obs.] Burton. 

HADDIE:  The haddock. [Scot.] 

HADDOCK:  A marine food fish (Melanogrammus æglefinus), allied to the cod, inhabiting the northern coasts of Europe and America. It has a dark lateral line and a black spot on each side of the body, just back of the gills. Galled also haddie, and dickie. Norway haddock, a marine edible fish (Sebastes marinus) of Northern Europe and America. See Rose fish. 

HADE:  The inclination or deviation from the vertical of any mineral vein. 

HADE:  To deviate from the vertical; -- said of a vein, fault, or lode. 

HADES:  The nether world (according to classical mythology, the abode of the shades, ruled over by Hades or Pluto); the invisible world; the grave. And death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them. Rev. xx. 13 (Rev. Ver. ). Neither was he left in Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. Acts ii. 31 (Rev. Ver.). And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. Luke xvi.23 (Rev. Ver.). 

HADJ:  The pilgrimage to Mecca, performed by Mohammedans. 

HADROSAURUS:  An American herbivorous dinosaur of great size, allied to the iguanodon. It is found in the Cretaceous formation. 

HAECCEITY:  Literally, this-ness. A scholastic term to express individuality or singleness; as, this book.  HAEMA-; HAEMATO-; HAEMO- Haem"a- (, Haem"a*to- (, Hæm"o- (. Etym: [Gr. ai^"ma, blood.]  Combining forms indicating relation or resemblance to blood, association with blood; as, hæmapod, hæmatogenesis, hæmoscope.  Note: Words from Gr. (hema-, hemato-, hemo-, as well as hæma-, hæmato-, hæmo-. 

HAEMACHROME:  Hematin. 

HAEMACYANIN:  A substance found in the blood of the octopus, which gives to it its blue color.  Note: When deprived of oxygen it is colorless, but becomes quickly blue in contact with oxygen, and is then generally called oxyhæmacyanin. A similar blue coloring matter has been detected in small quantity in the blood of other animals and in the bile. 

HAEMACYTOMETER:  An apparatus for determining the number of corpuscles in a given quantity of blood. 

HAEMAD:  Toward the hæmal side; on the hæmal side of; -- opposed to neurad.  HAEMADROMETER; HAEMADROMOMETER Hæm`a*drom"e*ter, Hæm`a*dro*mom"e*ter, n.  Same as Hemadrometer.  HAEMADROMETRY; HAEMADROMOMETRY Haem`a*drom"e*try,Haem`a*dro*mom"e*try, n.  Same as Hemadrometry. 

HAEMADROMOGRAPH:  An instrument for registering the velocity of the blood.  HAEMADYNAMETER; HAEMADYNAMOMETER Hae`ma*dy*nam"e*ter ( or ) Hae`ma*dy`na*mom"e*ter ( or ),  Same as Hemadynamometer. 

HAEMADYNAMICS:  Same as Hemadynamics. 

HAEMAL:  Pertaining to the blood or blood vessels; also, ventral. See Hemal. 

HAEMAPHAEIN:  A brownish substance sometimes found in the blood, in cases of jaundice. 

HAEMAPOD:  An hæmapodous animal. G. Rolleston. 

HAEMAPODOUS:  Having the limbs on, or directed toward, the ventral or hemal side, as in vertebrates; -- opposed to neuropodous. 

HAEMAPOIETIC:  Bloodforming; as, the hæmapoietic function of the spleen. 

HAEMAPOPHYSIS:  Same as Hemapophysis.  -- Hæm`a*po*phys"i*al, a. 

HAEMASTATICS:  Same as Hemastatics. 

HAEMATACHOMETER:  A form of apparatus (somewhat different from the hemadrometer) for measuring the velocity of the blood. 

HAEMATACHOMETRY:  The measurement of the velocity of the blood. 

HAEMATEMESIS:  Same as Hematemesis. 

HAEMATIC:  Of or pertaining to the blood; sanguine; brownish red. Hæmatic acid (Physiol.), a hypothetical acid, supposed to be formed from hemoglobin during its oxidation in the lungs, and to have the power of freeing carbonic acid from the sodium carbonate of the serum. Thudichum. 

HAEMATIN:  Same as Hematin. 

HAEMATINOMETER:  Same as Hematinometer. 

HAEMATINOMETRIC:  Same as Hematinometric. 

HAEMATITE:  Same as Hematite. 

HAEMATITIC:  Of a blood-red color; crimson; (Bot.) brownish red.  HAEMATO- Hæm"a*to- ( or ), prefix.  See Hæma-. 

HAEMATOBLAST:  One of the very minute, disk-shaped bodies found in blood with the ordinary red corpuscles and white corpuscles; a third kind of blood corpuscle, supposed by some to be an early stage in the development of the red corpuscles; -- called also blood plaque, and blood plate. 

HAEMATOCRYA:  The cold-blooded vertebrates. Same as Hematocrya. 

HAEMATOCRYAL:  Cold-blooded. 

HAEMATOCRYSTALLIN:  Same as Hematocrystallin. 

HAEMATODYNAMOMETER:  Same as Hemadynamometer. 

HAEMATOGENIC:  Relating to hæmatogenesis. 

HAEMATOGENOUS:  Originating in the blood. 

HAEMATOGLOBULIN:  Same as Hematoglobin. 

HAEMATOID:  Same as Hematoid. 

HAEMATOIDIN:  Same as Hematoidin. 

HAEMATOIN:  A substance formed from the hematin of blood, by removal of the iron through the action of concentrated sulphuric acid. Two like bodies, called respectively hæmatoporphyrin and hæmatolin, are formed in a similar manner. 

HAEMATOLIN:  See Hæmatoin. 

HAEMATOLOGY:  The science which treats of the blood. Same as Hematology. 

HAEMATOLYSIS:  Dissolution of the red blood corpuscles with diminished coagulability of the blood; hæmolysis. -- Hæm`a*to*lyt"ic (#), a. 

HAEMATOPHILINA:  A division of Cheiroptera, including the bloodsucking bats. See Vampire. 

HAEMATOPLAST:  Same as Hæmatoblast. 

HAEMATOPLASTIC:  Blood formative; -- applied to a substance in early fetal life, which breaks up gradually into blood vessels. 

HAEMATOPORPHYRIN:  See Hæmatoin. 

HAEMATOSAC:  A vascular sac connected, beneath the brain, in many fishes, with the infundibulum. 

HAEMATOSCOPE:  A hæmoscope. 

HAEMATOSIN:  Hematin. [R.] 

HAEMATOSIS:  Same as Hematosis. 

HAEMATOTHERMA:  Same as Hematotherma. 

HAEMATOTHERMAL:  Warm-blooded; homoiothermal. 

HAEMATOTHORAX:  Same as Hemothorax. 

HAEMATOXYLIN:  The coloring principle of logwood. It is obtained as a yellow crystalline substance, C16H14O6, with a sweetish taste. Formerly called also hematin. 

HAEMATOXYLON:  A genus of leguminous plants containing but a single species, the H. Campechianum or logwood tree, native in Yucatan.  HAEMATOZOON; HAEMATOZOOEN Hæm`a*to*zo"ön, n.; pl. Hæmatozoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  A parasite inhabiting the blood; esp.: (a) Certain species of nematodes of the genus Filaria, sometimes found in the blood of man, the horse, the dog, etc. (b) The trematode, Bilharzia hæmatobia, which infests the inhabitants of Egypt and other parts of Africa, often causing death. 

HAEMIC:  , 

HAEMIN:  Same as Hemin.  HAEMO- Hæm"o- ( or ), prefix.  See Hæma-. 

HAEMOCHROME:  Same as Hæmachrome. 

HAEMOCHROMOGEN:  A body obtained from hemoglobin, by the action of reducing agents in the absence of oxygen. 

HAEMOCHROMOMETER:  An apparatus for measuring the amount of hemoglobin in a fluid, by comparing it with a solution of known strength and of normal color. 

HAEMOCYANIN:  Same as Hæmacyanin. 

HAEMOCYTOLYSIS:  See Hæmocytotrypsis. 

HAEMOCYTOMETER:  See Hæmacytometer. 

HAEMOCYTOTRYPSIS:  A breaking up of the blood corpuscles, as by pressure, in distinction from solution of the corpuscles, or hæmcytolysis. 

HAEMODROMOGRAPH:  Same as Hæmadromograph. 

HAEMODROMOMETER:  Same as Hemadrometer. 

HAEMODYNAMETER:  Same as Hemadynamics. 

HAEMODYNAMICS:  Same as Hemadynamics. 

HAEMOGLOBIN:  Same as Hemoglobin. 

HAEMOGLOBINOMETER:  Same as Hemochromometer. 

HAEMOL:  A dark brown powder containing iron, prepared by the action of zinc dust as a reducing agent upon the coloring matter of the blood, used medicinally as a hematinic. 

HAEMOLUTEIN:  See Hematoidin.  HAEMOLYSIS; HAEMOLYTIC Hæ*mol"y*sis, n., Hæm`o*lyt"ic, a. (Physiol.)  Same as Hæmatolysis, Hæmatolytic. 

HAEMOMANOMETER:  Same as Hemadynamometer. 

HAEMOMETER:  Same as Hemadynamometer. 

HAEMONY:  A plant described by Milton as "of sovereign use against all enchantments." 

HAEMOPLASTIC:  Same as Hæmatoplastic. 

HAEMORRHOIDAL:  Same as Hemorrhoidal. 

HAEMOSCOPE:  An instrument devised by Hermann, for regulating and measuring the thickness of a layer of blood for spectroscopic examination. 

HAEMOSTATIC:  Same Hemostatic. 

HAEMOTACHOMETER:  Same as Hæmatachometer. 

HAEMOTACHOMETRY:  Same as Hæmatachometry. 

HAF:  Hove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HAFFLE:  To stammer; to speak unintelligibly; to prevaricate. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell. 

HAFT:  To set in, or furnish with, a haft; as, to haft a dagger. 

HAFTER:  A caviler; a wrangler. [Obs.] Baret. 

HAG:  An eel-like marine marsipobranch (Myxine glutinosa), allied to the lamprey. It has a suctorial mouth, with labial appendages, and a single pair of gill openings. It is the type of the order Hyperotpeta. Called also hagfish, borer, slime eel, sucker, and sleepmarken.  5. (Zoöl.)  The hagdon or shearwater.  6. An appearance of light and fire on a horse's mane or a man's hair. Blount. Hag moth (Zoöl.), a moth (Phobetron pithecium), the larva of which has curious side appendages, and feeds on fruit trees.  -- Hag's tooth (Naut.), an ugly irregularity in the pattern of matting or pointing. 

HAG:  To harass; to weary with vexation. How are superstitious men hagged out of their wits with the fancy of omens. L'Estrange. 

HAGBERRY:  A plant of the genus Prunus (P. Padus); the bird cherry. [Scot.] 

HAGBORN:  Born of a hag or witch. Shak. 

HAGBUT:  A harquebus, of which the but was bent down or hooked for convenience in taking aim. [Written also haguebut and hackbuss.] 

HAGBUTTER:  A soldier armed with a hagbut or arquebus. [Written also hackbutter.] Froude. 

HAGDON:  One of several species of sea birds of the genus Puffinus; esp., P. major, the greater shearwarter, and P. Stricklandi, the black hagdon or sooty shearwater; -- called also hagdown, haglin, and hag. See Shearwater. 

HAGFISH:  See Hag, 4. 

HAGGADA:  A story, anecdote, or legend in the Talmud, to explain or illustrate the text of the Old Testament. [Written also hadaga.] 

HAGGARD:  Having the expression of one wasted by want or suffering; hollow-eyed; having the features distorted or wasted, or anxious in appearance; as, haggard features, eyes. Staring his eyes, and haggard was his look. Dryden. 

HAGGARD:  A young or untrained hawk or falcon.  2. A fierce, intractable creature. I have loved this proud disdainful haggard. Shak.  3. Etym: [See Haggard, a., 2.]  A hag. [Obs.] Garth. 

HAGGARD:  A stackyard. [Prov. Eng.] Swift. 

HAGGARDLY:  In a haggard manner. Dryden. 

HAGGED:  Like a hag; lean; ugly. [R.] 

HAGGIS:  A Scotch pudding made of the heart, liver, lights, etc., of a sheep or lamb, minced with suet, onions, oatmeal, etc., highly seasoned, and boiled in the stomach of the same animal; minced head and pluck. [Written also haggiss, haggess, and haggies.] 

HAGGISH:  Like a hag; ugly; wrinkled. But on both did haggish age steal on. Shak. 

HAGGISHLY:  In the manner of a hag. 

HAGGLE:  To cut roughly or hack; to cut into small pieces; to notch or cut in an unskillful manner; to make rough or mangle by cutting; as, a boy haggles a stick of wood. Suffolk first died, and York, all haggled o'er, Comes to him, where in gore he lay insteeped. Shak. 

HAGGLE:  To be difficult in bargaining; to stick at small matters; to chaffer; to higgle. Royalty and science never haggled about the value of blood. Walpole. 

HAGGLE:  The act or process of haggling. Carlyle. 

HAGIARCHY:  A sacred government; by holy orders of men. Southey. 

HAGIOCRACY:  Government by a priesthood; hierarchy. 

HAGIOGRAPHA:  The lives of the saints. Brande & C. 

HAGIOGRAPHAL:  , Pertaining to the hagiographa, or to sacred writings. 

HAGIOGRAPHER:  One of the writers of the hagiographa; a writer of lives of the saints. Shipley. 

HAGIOGRAPHY:  Same Hagiographa. 

HAGIOLATRY:  The invocation or worship of saints. 

HAGIOLOGIST:  One who treats of the sacred writings; a writer of the lives of the saints; a hagiographer. Tylor. Hagiologists have related it without scruple. Southey. 

HAGIOLOGY:  The history or description of the sacred writings or of sacred persons; a narrative of the lives of the saints; a catalogue of saints. J. H. Newman. 

HAGIOSCOPE:  An opening made in the interior walls of a cruciform church to afford a view of the altar to those in the transepts; -- called, in architecture, a squint. Hook.  HAG-RIDDEN Hag"-rid`den, a.  Ridden by a hag or witch; hence, afflicted with nightmare. Beattie. Cheyne. 

HAGSEED:  The offspring of a hag. Shak. 

HAGSHIP:  The state or title of a hag. Middleton.  HAG-TAPER Hag"-ta`per, n. Etym: [Cf. 1st Hag, and Hig-taper.] (Bot.)  The great woolly mullein (Verbascum Thapsus). 

HAGUEBUT:  See Hagbut.  HAGUE TRIBUNAL Hague Tribunal.  The permanent court of arbitration created by the "International Convention for the Pacific Settle of International Disputes.", adopted by the International Peace Conference of 1899. It is composed of persons of known competency in questions of international law, nominated by the signatory powers. From these persons an arbitration tribunal is chosen by the parties to a difference submitted to the court. On the failure of the parties to agree directly on the arbitrators, each chooses two arbitrators, an umpire is selected by them, by a third power, or by two powers selected by the parties. 

HAH:  Same as Ha.  HA-HA Ha-ha", n. Etym: [See Haw-haw.]  A sunk fence; a fence, wall, or ditch, not visible till one is close upon it. [Written also haw-haw.] 

HAIDINGERITE:  A mineral consisting of the arseniate of lime; -- so named in honor of W. Haidinger, of Vienna. 

HAIDUCK:  Formerly, a mercenary foot soldier in Hungary, now, a halberdier of a Hungarian noble, or an attendant in German or Hungarian courts. [Written also hayduck, heiduc, heiduck, and heyduk.] 

HAIK:  A large piece of woolen or cotton cloth worn by Arabs as an outer garment. [Written also hyke.] Heyse. 

HAIKAL:  The central chapel of the three forming the sanctuary of a Coptic church. It contains the high altar, and is usually closed by an embroidered curtain. 

HAIKWAN:  Chinese maritime customs.  HAIKWAN TAEL Haikwan tael.  A Chinese weight ( 1/10 catty) equivalent to 1 1/3 oz. or 37.801 g. 

HAIL:  Small roundish masses of ice precipitated from the clouds, where they are formed by the congelation of vapor. The separate masses or grains are called hailstones. Thunder mixed with hail, Hail mixed with fire, must rend the Egyptian sky. Milton. 

HAIL:  To pour down particles of ice, or frozen vapors. 

HAIL:  To pour forcibly down, as hail. Shak. 

HAIL:  Healthy. See Hale (the preferable spelling). 

HAIL:  An exclamation of respectful or reverent salutation, or, occasionally, of familiar greeting. "Hail, brave friend." Shak. All hail. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Hail Mary, a form of prayer made use of in the Roman Catholic Church in invocation of the Virgin. See Ave Maria. 

HAIL:  A wish of health; a salutation; a loud call. "Their puissant hail." M. Arnold. The angel hail bestowed. Milton.  HAIL-FELLOW Hail"-fel`low, n.  An intimate companion. Hail-fellow well met. Lyly. 

HAILSE:  To greet; to salute. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 

HAILSHOT:  Small shot which scatter like hailstones. [Obs.] Hayward. 

HAILSTONE:  A single particle of ice falling from a cloud; a frozen raindrop; a pellet of hail. 

HAILSTORM:  A storm accompanied with hail; a shower of hail. 

HAILY:  Of hail. "Haily showers." Pope. 

HAIN:  To inclose for mowing; to set aside for grass. "A ground . . . hained in." Holland. 

HAIN:  To inclose for mowing; to set aside for grass. "A ground . . . hained in."  Holland.  HAIN'T Hain't  . A contraction of have not or has not; as, I hain't, he hain't, we hain't. [Colloq. or illiterate speech.] [Written also han't.] 

HAIR:  A slender outgrowth from the chitinous cuticle of insects, spiders, crustaceans, and other invertebrates. Such hairs are totally unlike those of vertebrates in structure, composition, and mode of growth.  5. An outgrowth of the epidermis, consisting of one or of several cells, whether pointed, hooked, knobbed, or stellated. Internal hairs occur in the flower stalk of the yellow frog lily (Nuphar).  6. A spring device used in a hair-trigger firearm.  7. A haircloth. [Obc.] Chaucer.  8. Any very small distance, or degree; a hairbreadth.  Note: Hairs is often used adjectively or in combination; as, hairbrush or hair brush, hair dye, hair oil, hairpin, hair powder, a brush, a dye, etc., for the hair. Against the hair, in a rough and disagreeable manner; against the grain. [Obs.] "You go against the hair of your professions." Shak.  -- Hair bracket (Ship Carp.), a molding which comes in at the back of, or runs aft from, the figurehead.  -- Hair cells (Anat.), cells with hairlike processes in the sensory epithelium of certain parts of the internal ear.  -- Hair compass, Hair divider, a compass or divider capable of delicate adjustment by means of a screw.  -- Hair glove, a glove of horsehair for rubbing the skin.  -- Hair lace, a netted fillet for tying up the hair of the head. Swift.  -- Hair line, a line made of hair; a very slender line.  -- Hair moth (Zoöl.), any moth which destroys goods made of hair, esp. Tinea biselliella.  -- Hair pencil, a brush or fine hair, for painting; -- generally called by the name of the hair used; as, a camel's hair pencil, a sable's hair pencil, etc.  -- Hair plate, an iron plate forming the back of the hearth of a bloomery fire.  -- Hair powder, a white perfumed powder, as of flour or starch, formerly much used for sprinkling on the hair of the head, or on wigs.  -- Hair seal (Zoöl.), any one of several species of eared seals which do not produce fur; a sea lion.  -- Hair seating, haircloth for seats of chairs, etc.  -- Hair shirt, a shirt, or a band for the loins, made of horsehair, and worn as a penance.  -- Hair sieve, a strainer with a haircloth bottom.  -- Hair snake. See Gordius.  -- Hair space (Printing), the thinnest metal space used in lines of type.  -- Hair stroke, a delicate stroke in writing.  -- Hair trigger, a trigger so constructed as to discharge a firearm by a very slight pressure, as by the touch of a hair. Farrow.  -- Not worth a hair, of no value.  -- To a hair, with the nicest distinction.  -- To split hairs, to make distinctions of useless nicety. 

HAIRBELL:  See Harebell. 

HAIRBIRD:  The chipping sparrow. 

HAIRBRAINED:  See Harebrained.  HAIRBREADTH; HAIR'SBREADTH Hair"breadth`, Hair's"breadth`, a.  The diameter or breadth of a hair; a very small distance; sometimes, definitely, the forty-eighth part of an inch. Every one could sling stones at an hairbreadth and not miss. Judg. xx. 16 

HAIRBREADTH:  Having the breadth of a hair; very narrow; as, a hairbreadth escape.  HAIR-BROWN Hair"-brown`, a.  Of a clear tint of brown, resembling brown human hair. It is composed of equal proportions of red and green. 

HAIRBRUSH:  A brush for cleansing and smoothing the hair. 

HAIRCLOTH:  Stuff or cloth made wholly or in part of hair. 

HAIRDRESSER:  One who dresses or cuts hair; a barber. 

HAIREN:  Hairy. [Obc.] His hairen shirt and his ascetic diet. J. Taylor.  HAIR GRASS Hair" grass`. (Bot.)  A grass with very slender leaves or branches; as the Agrostis scabra, and several species of Aira or Deschampsia. 

HAIRINESS:  The state of abounding, or being covered, with hair. Johnson. 

HAIRLESS:  Destitute of hair. Shak. 

HAIRPIN:  A pin, usually forked, or of bent wire, for fastening the hair in place, -- used by women.  HAIR-SALT Hair"-salt`, n. Etym: [A translation of G. haarsalz.] (Min.)  A variety of native Epsom salt occurring in silky fibers. 

HAIRSPLITTER:  One who makes excessively nice or needless distinctions in reasoning; one who quibbles. "The caviling hairsplitter." De Quincey. 

HAIRSPLITTING:  Making excessively nice or trivial distinctions in reasoning; subtle.  -- n.  The act or practice of making trivial distinctions. The ancient hairsplitting technicalities of special pleading. Charles Sumner. 

HAIRSPRING:  The slender recoil spring which regulates the motion of the balance in a timepiece. 

HAIRSTREAK:  A butterfly of the genus Thecla; as, the green hairstreak (T. rubi). 

HAIRTAIL:  Any species of marine fishes of the genus Trichiurus; esp., T. lepterus of Europe and America. They are long and like a band, with a slender, pointed tail. Called also bladefish. 

HAIRWORM:  A nematoid worm of the genus Gordius, resembling a hair. See Gordius. 

HAIRY:  Bearing or covered with hair; made of or resembling hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; hirsute. His mantle hairy, and his bonnet sedge. Milton. 

HAITIAN:  See Haytian. 

HAJE:  The Egyptian asp or cobra (Naja haje.) It is related to the cobra of India, and like the latter has the power of inflating its neck into a hood. Its bite is very venomous. It is supposed to be the snake by means of whose bite Cleopatra committed suicide, and hence is sometimes called Cleopatra's snake or asp. See Asp. 

HAKE:  A drying shed, as for unburned tile. 

HAKE:  One of several species of marine gadoid fishes, of the genera Phycis, Merlucius, and allies. The common European hake is M. vulgaris; the American silver hake or whiting is M. bilinearis. Two American species (Phycis chuss and P. tenius) are important food fishes, and are also valued for their oil and sounds. Called also squirrel hake, and codling. 

HAKE:  To loiter; to sneak. [Prov. Eng.]  HAKE'S-DAME Hake's"-dame`, n.  See Forkbeard. 

HAKETON:  Same as Acton. [Obs.] 

HAKIM:  A wise man; a physician, esp. a Mohammedan. [India] 

HAKIM:  A Mohammedan title for a ruler; a judge. [India] 

HALACHA:  The general term for the Hebrew oral or traditional law; one of two branches of exposition in the Midrash. See Midrash. 

HALATION:  An appearance as of a halo of light, surround the edges of dark object 

HALBERD:  An ancient long-handled weapon, of which the head had a point and several long, sharp edges, curved or straight, and sometimes additional points. The heads were sometimes of very elaborate form. [Written also halbert.] 

HALBERDIER:  One who is armed with a halberd. Strype.  HALBERD-SHAPED Hal"berd-shaped`, a.  Hastate. 

HALCYON:  A kingfisher. By modern ornithologists restricted to a genus including a limited number of species having omnivorous habits, as the sacred kingfisher (Halcyon sancta) of Australia. Amidst our arms as quiet you shall be As halcyons brooding on a winter sea. Dryden. 

HALCYONIAN:  Halcyon; calm. 

HALCYONOID:  See Alcyonoid. 

HALE:  Sound; entire; healthy; robust; not impaired; as, a hale body. Last year we thought him strong and hale. Swift. 

HALE:  Welfare. [Obs.] All heedless of his dearest hale. Spenser. 

HALE:  Etym: [OE. halen, halien; cf. AS. holian, to acquire, get. See Haul.]  To pull; to drag; to haul. See Haul. Chaucer. Easier both to freight, and to hale ashore. Milton. As some dark priest hales the reluctant victim. Shelley. 

HALESIA:  A genus of American shrubs containing several species, called snowdrop trees, or silver-bell trees. They have showy, white flowers, drooping on slender pedicels. 

HALF:  In an equal part or degree; in some paas, half-colored, half done, half-hearted, half persuaded, half conscious. "Half loth and half consenting." Dryden. Their children spoke halfin the speech of Ashdod. Neh. xiii. 24 

HALF:  To halve. [Obs.] See Halve. Sir H. Wotton.  HALF-AND-HALF Half`-and-half", n.  A mixture of two malt liquors, esp. porter and ale, in about equal parts. Dickens. 

HALFBEAK:  Any slender, marine fish of the genus Hemirhamphus, having the upper jaw much shorter than the lower; -- called also balahoo.  HALF BLOOD Half" blood`.  1. The relation between persons born of the same father or of the same mother, but not of both; as, a brother or sister of the half blood. See Blood, n., 2 and 4.  2. A person so related to another.  3. A person whose father and mother are of different races; a half- breed.  Note: In the 2d and 3d senses usually with a hyphen.  HALF-BLOODED Half"-blood`ed, a.  1. Proceeding from a male and female of different breeds or races; having only one parent of good stock; as, a half-blooded sheep.  2. Degenerate; mean.  HALF-BOOT Half"-boot`, n.  A boot with a short top covering only the ankle. See Cocker, and Congress boot, under Congress.  HALF-BOUND Half"-bound`, n.  Having only the back and corners in leather, as a book.  HALF-BRED Half"-bred`, a.  1. Half-blooded. [Obs.]  2. Imperfectly acquainted with the rules of good-breeding; not well trained. Atterbury.  HALF-BREED Half"-breed`, a.  Half-blooded.  HALF-BREED Half"-breed`, n.  A person who is blooded; the offspring of parents of different races, especially of the American Indian and the white race.  HALF-BROTHER Half"-broth`er, n.  A brother by one parent, but not by both.  HALF-CASTE Half"-caste`, n.  One born of a European parent on the one side, and of a Hindoo or Mohammedan on the other. Also adjective; as, half-caste parents.  HALF-CLAMMED Half"-clammed`, a.  Half-filled. [Obs.] Lions' half-clammed entrails roar food. Marston. 

HALFCOCK:  To set the cock of (a firearm) at the first notch. To go off halfcocked. (a) To be discharged prematurely, or with the trigger at half cock; -- said of a firearm. (b) To do or say something without due thought or care. [Colloq. or Low]  HALF-CRACKED Half"-cracked`, a.  Half-demented; half-witted. [Colloq.]  HALF-DECK Half"-deck`, n.  1. (Zoöl.)  A shell of the genus Crepidula; a boat shell. See Boat shell.  2. See Half deck, under Deck.  HALF-DECKED Half"-decked`, a.  Partially decked. The half-decked craft . . . used by the latter Vikings. Elton. 

HALFEN:  Wanting half its due qualities. [Obs.] Spencer. 

HALFENDEAL:  Half; by the part. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- n.  A half part. [Obs.] R. of Brunne. 

HALFER:  Showing only part of the face; wretched looking; meager. Shak.  HALF-FISH Half"-fish`, n. (Zoöl.)  A salmon in its fifth year of growth. [Prov. Eng.]  HALF-HATCHED Half"-hatched`, a.  Imperfectly hatched; as, half-hatched eggs. Gay.  HALF-HEARD Half"-heard`, a.  Imperfectly or partly heard to the end. And leave half-heard the melancholy tale. Pope.  HALF-HEARTED Half"-heart`ed, a.  1. Wanting in heart or spirit; ungenerous; unkind. B. Jonson.  2. Lacking zeal or courage; lukewarm. H. James.  HALF-HOURLY Half"-hour`ly, a.  Done or happening at intervals of half an hour.  HALF-LEARNED Half"-learned`, a.  Imperfectly learned.  HALF-LENGTH Half"-length`, a.  Of half the whole or ordinary length, as a picture.  HALF-MAST Half"-mast`, n.  A point some distance below the top of a mast or staff; as, a flag a half-mast (a token of mourning, etc.).  HALF-MOON Half"-moon`, n.  1. The moon at the quarters, when half its disk appears illuminated.  2. The shape of a half-moon; a crescent. See how in warlike muster they appear, In rhombs, and wedges, and half-moons, and wings. Milton.  3. (Fort.)  An outwork composed of two faces, forming a salient angle whose gorge resembles a half-moon; -- now called a ravelin.  4. (Zoöl.)  A marine, sparoid, food fish of California (Cæsiosoma Californiense). The body is ovate, blackish above, blue or gray below. Called also medialuna.  HALF NELSON Half nelson. (Wrestling)  A hold in which one arm is thrust under the corresponding arm of the opponent, generally behind, and the hand placed upon the back of his neck. In the full nelson both hands are so placed. 

HALFNESS:  The quality of being half; incompleteness. [R.] As soon as there is any departure from simplicity, and attempt at halfness, or good for me that is not good for him, my neighbor feels the wrong. Emerson. 

HALFPACE:  A platform of a staircase where the stair turns back in exactly the reverse direction of the lower flight. See Quarterpace.  Note: This term and quartepace are rare or unknown in the United States, platform or landing being used instead.  HALF-PENNY Half"-pen*ny(ha"pen*ny or häf"-; 277),n.;pl. Half-pence (-pens) or Half-pennies(-pen*niz).  An English coin of the value of half a penny; also, the value of half a penny.  HALF-PIKE Half"-pike`, n. (Mil.)  A short pike, sometimes carried by officers of infantry, sometimes used in boarding ships; a spontoon. Tatler.  HALF-PORT Half"-port`, n. (Naut.)  One half of a shutter made in two parts for closing a porthole.  HALF-RAY Half"-ray`, n. (Geom.)  A straight line considered as drawn from a center to an indefinite distance in one direction, the complete ray being the whole line drawn to an indefinite distance in both directions.  HALF-READ Half"-read`, a.  Informed by insufficient reading; superficial; shallow. Dryden.  HALF SEAS OVER Half" seas` o`ver.  Half drunk. [Slang: used only predicatively.] Spectator.  HALF-SIGHTED Half"-sight`ed, a.  Seeing imperfectly; having weak discernment. Bacon.  HALF-SISTER Half"-sis`ter, n.  A sister by one parent only.  HALF-STRAINED Half"-strained`, a.  Half-bred; imperfect. [R.] "A half-strained villain." Dryden.  HALF-SWORD Half"-sword`, n.  Half the length of a sword; close fight. "At half-sword." Shak.  HALF-TIMBERED Half"-tim`bered, a. (Arch.)  Constructed of a timber frame, having the spaces filled in with masonry; -- said of buildings.  HALF TONE; HALF-TONE Half tone, or Half"-tone`, n.  1. (Fine Arts)  (a) An intermediate or middle tone in a painting, engraving, photograph, etc.; a middle tint, neither very dark nor very light.  (b) A half-tone photo-engraving.  2.  (Music) A half step.  HALF-TONE Half"-tone`, a.  Having, consisting of, or pertaining to, half tones; specif. (Photo-engraving),  pertaining to or designating plates, processes, or the pictures made by them, in which gradation of tone in the photograph is reproduced by a graduated system of dotted and checkered spots, usually nearly invisible to the unaided eye, produced by the interposition between the camera and the object of a screen. The name alludes to the fact that this process was the first that was practically successful in reproducing the half tones of the photograph.  HALF-TONGUE Half"-tongue`, n. (O. Law)  A jury, for the trial of a fore foreigner, composed equally of citizens and aliens. 

HALFWAY:  In the middle; at half the distance; imperfectly; partially; as, he halfway yielded. Temples proud to meet their gods halfway. Young. 

HALFWAY:  Equally distant from the extremes; situated at an intermediate point; midway. Halfway covenant, a practice among the Congregational churches of New England, between 1657 and 1662, of permitting baptized persons of moral life and orthodox faith to enjoy all the privileges of church membership, save the partaking of the Lord's Supper. They were also allowed to present their children for baptism.  -- Halfway house, an inn or place of call midway on a journey.  HALF-WIT Half"-wit`, n.  A foolish; a dolt; a blockhead; a dunce. Dryden.  HALF-WITTED Half"-wit`ted, a.  Weak in intellect; silly.  HALF-YEARLY Half"-year`ly, a.  Two in a year; semiannual.  -- adv. Twice in a year; semiannually. 

HALIBUT:  A large, northern, marine flatfish (Hippoglossus vulgaris), of the family Pleuronectidæ. It often grows very large, weighing more than three hundred pounds. It is an important food fish. [Written also holibut.] 

HALICHONDRIAE:  An order of sponges, having simple siliceous spicules and keratose fibers; -- called also Keratosilicoidea. 

HALICORE:  Same as Dugong. 

HALIEUTICS:  A treatise upon fish or the art of fishing; ichthyology.  HALIMAS; HALMAS Ha`li"mas, Hal"mas, a. Etym: [See Hallowmas.]  The feast of All Saints; Hallowmas. [Obs.] 

HALIOGRAPHER:  One who writes about or describes the sea. 

HALIOGRAPHY:  Description of the sea; the science that treats of the sea. 

HALIOTIS:  A genus of marine shells; the ear-shells. See Abalone. 

HALIOTOID:  Like or pertaining to the genus Haliotis; ear-shaped. 

HALISAURIA:  The Enaliosauria. 

HALITE:  Native salt; sodium chloride. 

HALITUOUS:  Produced by, or like, breath; vaporous. Boyle. 

HALK:  A nook; a corner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HALLAGE:  A fee or toll paid for goods sold in a hall.  HALLELUIAH; HALLELUJAH Hal`le*lu"iah, Hal`le*lu"jah, n. & interj. Etym: [Heb. See Alleluia.]  Praise ye Jehovah; praise ye the Lord; -- an exclamation used chiefly in songs of praise or thanksgiving to God, and as an expression of gratitude or adoration. Rev. xix. 1 (Rev. Ver. ) So sung they, and the empyrean rung With Hallelujahs. Milton. In those days, as St. Jerome tells us,"any one as he walked in the fields, might hear the plowman at his hallelujahs." Sharp. 

HALLELUJATIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, hallelujahs. [R.] 

HALLIARD:  See Halyard. 

HALLIDOME:  Same as Halidom. 

HALLIER:  A kind of net for catching birds.  HALL-MARK Hall"-mark`, n.  The official stamp of the Goldsmiths' Company and other assay offices, in the United Kingdom, on gold and silver articles, attesting their purity. Also used figuratively; -- as, a word or phrase lacks the hall-mark of the best writers. 

HALLOA:  See Halloo. 

HALLOO:  A loud exclamation; a call to invite attention or to incite a person or an animal; a shout. List! List! I hear Some far off halloo break the silent air. Milton. 

HALLOO:  To cry out; to exclaim with a loud voice; to call to a person, as by the word halloo. Country folks hallooed and hooted after me. Sir P. Sidney. 

HALLOO:  An exclamation to call attention or to encourage one. 

HALLOW:  To make holy; to set apart for holy or religious use; to consecrate; to treat or keep as sacred; to reverence. "Hallowed be thy name." Matt. vi. 9. Hallow the Sabbath day, to do no work therein. Jer. xvii. 24. His secret altar touched with hallowed fire. Milton. In a larger sense . . . we can not hallow this ground [Gettysburg]. A. Lincoln. 

HALLOWEEN:  The evening preceding Allhallows or All Saints' Day. [Scot.] Burns. 

HALLOWMAS:  The feast of All Saints, or Allhallows. To speak puling, like a beggar at Hallowmas. Shak. 

HALLOYSITE:  A claylike mineral, occurring in soft, smooth, amorphous masses, of a whitish color.  HALLSTATT; HALLSTATTIAN Hall"statt, Hall*stat"ti*an, a.  Of or pert. to Hallstatt, Austria, or the Hallstatt civilization. -- Hallstatt, or Hallstattian, civilization, a prehistoric civilization of central Europe, variously dated at from 1000 to 1500 b. c. and usually associated with the Celtic or Alpine race. It was characterized by expert use of bronze, a knowledge of iron, possession of domestic animals, agriculture, and artistic skill and sentiment in manufacturing pottery, ornaments, etc.  The Hallstattian civilization flourished chiefly in Carinthia, southern Germany, Switzerland, Bohemia, Silesia, Bosnia, the southeast of France, and southern Italy. J. Deniker.  -- H. epoch, the first iron age, represented by the Hallstatt civilization. 

HALLUCAL:  Of or pertaining to the hallux. 

HALLUCINATE:  To wander; to go astray; to err; to blunder; -- used of mental processes. [R.] Byron. 

HALLUCINATION:  The perception of objects which have no reality, or of sensations which have no corresponding external cause, arising from disorder or the nervous system, as in delirium tremens; delusion. Hallucinations are always evidence of cerebral derangement and are common phenomena of insanity. W. A. Hammond. 

HALLUCINATOR:  One whose judgment and acts are affected by hallucinations; one who errs on account of his hallucinations. N. Brit. Rev. 

HALLUCINATORY:  Partaking of, or tending to produce, hallucination. 

HALLUX:  The first, or preaxial, digit of the hind limb, corresponding to the pollux in the fore limb; the great toe; the hind toe of birds. 

HALM:  Same as Haulm. 

HALMA:  The long jump, with weights in the hands, -- the most important of the exercises of the Pentathlon. 

HALO:  To form, or surround with, a halo; to encircle with, or as with, a halo. The fire That haloed round his saintly brow. Sothey. 

HALOED:  Surrounded with a halo; invested with an ideal glory; glorified. Some haloed face bending over me. C. Bronté. 

HALOGEN:  An electro-negative element or radical, which, by combination with a metal, forms a haloid salt; especially, chlorine, bromine, and iodine; sometimes, also, fluorine and cyanogen. See Chlorine family, under Chlorine. 

HALOGENOUS:  Of the nature of a halogen. 

HALOID:  Resembling salt; -- said of certain binary compounds consisting of a metal united to a negative element or radical, and now chiefly applied to the chlorides, bromides, iodides, and sometimes also to the fluorides and cyanides.  -- n.  A haloid substance. 

HALOMANCY:  See Alomancy. 

HALOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the forms and angles of salts and crystals; a goniometer. 

HALONES:  Alternating transparent and opaque white rings which are seen outside the blastoderm, on the surface of the developing egg of the hen and other birds. 

HALOPHYTE:  A plant found growing in salt marshes, or in the sea. 

HALOSCOPE:  An instrument for exhibition or illustration of the phenomena of halos, parhelia, and the like. 

HALOTRICHITE:  An iron alum occurring in silky fibrous aggregates of a yellowish white color. 

HALOXYLINE:  An explosive mixture, consisting of sawdust, charcoal, niter, and ferrocyanide of potassium, used as a substitute for gunpowder. 

HALP:  Helped. [Obs.] 

HALPACE:  See Haut pas. 

HALS:  The neck or throat. [Obs.] Do me hangen by the hals. Chaucer. 

HALSE:  To haul; to hoist. [Obs.] 

HALSENING:  Sounding harshly in the throat; inharmonious; rough. [Obs.] Carew. 

HALSER:  See Hawser. Pope. 

HALT:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contraction for holdeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HALT:  A stop in marching or walking, or in any action; arrest of progress. Without any halt they marched. Clarendon. [Lovers] soon in passion's war contest, Yet in their march soon make a halt. Davenant. 

HALT:  To cause to cease marching; to stop; as, the general halted his troops for refreshment. 

HALT:  Halting or stopping in walking; lame. Bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind. Luke xiv. 21. 

HALT:  The act of limping; lameness. 

HALTER:  One who halts or limps 

HALTER:  A strong strap or cord. Especially: (a) A rope or strap, with or without a headstall, for leading or tying a horse. (b) A rope for hanging malefactors; a noose. Shak. No man e'er felt the halter draw With good opinion of the law. Trumbull. 

HALTER:  To tie by the neck with a rope, strap, or halter; to put a halter on; to subject to a hangman's halter. "A haltered neck." Shak. 

HALTERES:  Balancers; the rudimentary hind wings of Diptera.  HALTER-SACK Hal"ter-sack`, n.  A term of reproach, implying that one is fit to be hanged. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

HALTINGLY:  In a halting or limping manner. 

HALVANS:  Impure ore; dirty ore. 

HALVE:  A half. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HALVE:  To join, as two pieces of timber, by cutting away each for half its thickness at the joining place, and fitting together. 

HALVED:  Appearing as if one side, or one half, were cut away; dimidiate. 

HALVES:  pl. of Half. By halves, by one half at once; halfway; fragmentarily; partially; incompletely. I can not believe by halves; either I have faith, or I have it not. J. H. Newman. To go halves. See under Go. 

HALWE:  A saint. [Obs.] Chaucer.  HAL'YARD; HALYARD Hal'yard, n. Etym: [Hale, v. t. + yard.] (Naut.)  A rope or tackle for hoisting or lowering yards, sails, flags, etc. [Written also halliard, haulyard.] 

HALYSITES:  A genus of Silurian fossil corals; the chain corals. See Chain coral, under Chain. 

HAM:  Home. [North of Eng.] Chaucer. 

HAM:  The region back of the knee joint; the popliteal space; the hock.  2. The thigh of any animal; especially, the thigh of a hog cured by salting and smoking. A plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak ham. Shak. 

HAMADRYAD:  A tree nymph whose life ended with that of the particular tree, usually an oak, which had been her abode.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large venomous East Indian snake (Orhiophagus bungarus), allied to the cobras. 

HAMADRYAS:  The sacred baboon of Egypt (Cynocephalus Hamadryas). 

HAMAL:  In Turkey and other Oriental countries, a porter or burden bearer; specif., in Western India, a palanquin bearer. 

HAMAMELIS:  A genus of plants which includes the witch-hazel (Hamamelis Virginica), a preparation of which is used medicinally. 

HAMATE:  Hooked; bent at the end into a hook; hamous. 

HAMATED:  Hooked, or set with hooks; hamate. Swift. 

HAMATUM:  See Unciform. 

HAMBLE:  To hamstring. [Obs.] 

HAMBURG:  A commercial city of Germany, near the mouth of the Elbe. Black Hamburg grape. See under Black.  -- Hamburg , a kind of embroidered work done by machinery on cambric or muslin; -- used for trimming.  -- Hamburg lake, a purplish crimson pigment resembling cochineal. 

HAME:  Home. [Scot. & O. Eng.] 

HAME:  One of the two curved pieces of wood or metal, in the harness of a draught horse, to which the traces are fastened. They are fitted upon the collar, or have pads fitting the horse's neck attached to them. 

HAMEL:  Same as Hamele.  HAMESECKEN; HAMESUCKEN Hame"seck`en, Hame"suck`en, n. Etym: [AS. hams. See Home, and Seek.] (Scots Law)  The felonious seeking and invasion of a person in his dwelling house. Bouvier. 

HAMFATTER:  A low-grade actor or performer. [Theatrical Slang] 

HAMIFORM:  Hook-shaped.  HAMILTON PERIOD Ham"il*ton pe"ri*od. (Geol.)  A subdivision of the Devonian system of America; -- so named from Hamilton, Madison Co., New York. It includes the Marcellus, Hamilton, and Genesee epochs or groups. See the Chart of Geology. 

HAMINURA:  A large edible river fish (Erythrinus macrodon) of Guiana. 

HAMITE:  A fossil cephalopod of the genus Hamites, related to the ammonites, but having the last whorl bent into a hooklike form. 

HAMITE:  A descendant of Ham, Noah's second son. See Gen. x. 6-20. 

HAMITIC:  Pertaining to Ham or his descendants. Hamitic languages, the group of languages spoken mainly in the Sahara, Egypt, Galla, and Somâli Land, and supposed to be allied to the Semitic. Keith Johnson. 

HAMLET:  A small village; a little cluster of houses in the country. The country wasted, and the hamlets burned. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Village; neighborhood. See Village. 

HAMLETED:  Confined to a hamlet. Feltham. 

HAMMER:  That part of a gunlock which strikes the percussion cap, or firing pin; the cock; formerly, however, a piece of steel covering the pan of a flintlock musket and struck by the flint of the cock to ignite the priming. (e) Also, a person of thing that smites or shatters; as, St. Augustine was the hammer of heresies. He met the stern legionaries [of Rome] who had been the "massive iron hammers" of the whole earth. J. H. Newman. Atmospheric hammer, a dead-stroke hammer in which the spring is formed by confined air.  -- Drop hammer, Face hammer, etc. See under Drop, Face, etc.  -- Hammer fish. See Hammerhead.  -- Hammer hardening, the process of hardening metal by hammering it when cold.  -- Hammer shell (Zoöl.), any species of Malleus, a genus of marine bivalve shells, allied to the pearl oysters, having the wings narrow and elongated, so as to give them a hammer-shaped outline; -- called also hammer oyster.  -- To bring to the hammer, to put up at auction. 

HAMMERABLE:  Capable of being formed or shaped by a hammer. Sherwood.  HAMMER-BEAM Ham"mer-beam`, n. (Cothic Arch.)  A member of one description of roof truss, called hammer-beam truss, which is so framed as not to have a tiebeam at the top of the wall. Each principal has two hammer-beams, which occupy the situation, and to some extent serve the purpose, of a tiebeam.  HAMMER BREAK Ham"mer break. (Elec.)  An interrupter in which contact is broken by the movement of an automatically vibrating hammer between a contact piece and an electromagnet, or of a rapidly moving piece mechanically driven. 

HAMMERCLOTH:  The cloth which covers a coach box.  HAMMER-DRESSED Ham"mer-dressed`, a.  Having the surface roughly shaped or faced with the stonecutter's hammer; -- said of building stone. 

HAMMERER:  One who works with a hammer.  HAMMER-HARDEN Ham"mer-hard`en, v. t.  To harden, as a metal, by hammering it in the cold state. 

HAMMERHEAD:  A shark of the genus Sphyrna or Zygæna, having the eyes set on projections from the sides of the head, which gives it a hammer shape. The Sphyrna zygæna is found in the North Atlantic. Called also hammer fish, and balance fish.  2. (Zoöl.)  A fresh-water fish; the stone-roller.  3. (Zoöl.)  An African fruit bat (Hypsignathus monstrosus); -- so called from its large blunt nozzle. 

HAMMERKOP:  A bird of the Heron family; the umber.  HAMMER-LESS Ham"mer-less, a. (Firearms)  Without a visible hammer; -- said of a gun having a cock or striker concealed from sight, and out of the way of an accidental touch.  HAMMER LOCK Hammer lock. (Wrestling)  A hold in which an arm of one contestant is held twisted and bent behind his back by his opponent. 

HAMMERMAN:  A hammerer; a forgeman. 

HAMMOCHRYSOS:  A stone with spangles of gold color in it. 

HAMMOCK:  Having the end hooked or curved. 

HAMPER:  A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing and carrying of articles; as, a hamper of wine; a clothes hamper; an oyster hamper, which contains two bushels. 

HAMPER:  To put in a hamper. 

HAMPER:  To put a hamper or fetter on; to shackle; to insnare; to inveigle; hence, to impede in motion or progress; to embarrass; to encumber. "Hampered nerves." Blackmore. A lion hampered in a net. L'Estrange. They hamper and entangle our souls. Tillotson. 

HAMPER:  Articles ordinarily indispensable, but in the way at certain times. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Top hamper (Naut.), unnecessary spars and rigging kept aloft. 

HAMSHACKLE:  To fasten (an animal) by a rope binding the head to one of the fore legs; as, to hamshackle a horse or cow; hence, to bind or restrain; to curb. 

HAMSTER:  A small European rodent (Cricetus frumentarius). It is remarkable for having a pouch on each side of the jaw, under the skin, and for its migrations. 

HAMSTRING:  One of the great tendons situated in each side of the ham, or space back of the knee, and connected with the muscles of the back of the thigh. 

HAMSTRING:  To lame or disable by cutting the tendons of the ham or knee; to hough; hence, to cripple; to incapacitate; to disable. So have they hamstrung the valor of the subject by seeking to effeminate us all at home. Milton. 

HAMULAR:  Hooked; hooklike; hamate; as, the hamular process of the sphenoid bone. 

HAMULATE:  Furnished with a small hook; hook-shaped. Gray. 

HAMULE:  A little hook. 

HAMULOSE:  Bearing a small hook at the end. Gray. 

HAMULUS:  A hook, or hooklike process.  2. (Zoöl.)  A hooked barbicel of a feather. 

HAN:  To have; have. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Him thanken all, and thus they han an end. Chaucer. 

HANAP:  A rich goblet, esp. one used on state occasions. [Obs.] 

HANAPER:  A kind of basket, usually of wickerwork, and adapted for the packing and carrying of articles; a hamper. Hanaper office, an office of the English court of chancery in which writs relating to the business of the public, and the returns to them, were anciently kept in a hanaper or hamper. Blackstone. 

HANCE:  To raise; to elevate. [Obs.] Lydgate.  HANCE; HANCH Hance, Hanch,Etym: [See Hanse.]  1. (Arch.)  See Hanse.  2. (Naut.)  A sudden fall or break, as the fall of the fife rail down to the gangway. 

HAND:  The small part of a gunstock near the lock, which is grasped by the hand in taking aim.  Note: Hand is used figuratively for a large variety of acts or things, in the doing, or making, or use of which the hand is in some way employed or concerned; also, as a symbol to denote various qualities or conditions, as: (a) Activity; operation; work; -- in distinction from the head, which implies thought, and the heart, which implies affection. "His hand will be against every man." Gen. xvi. 12.(b) Power; might; supremacy; -- often in the Scriptures. "With a mighty hand . . . will I rule over you." Ezek. xx. 33.(c) Fraternal feeling; as, to give, or take, the hand; to give the right hand. (d) Contract; -- commonly of marriage; as, to ask the hand; to pledge the hand.  Note: Hand is often used adjectively or in compounds (with or without the hyphen), signifying performed by the hand; as, hand blow or hand- blow, hand gripe or hand-gripe: used by, or designed for, the hand; as, hand ball or handball, hand bow, hand fetter, hand grenade or hand-grenade, handgun or hand gun, handloom or hand loom, handmill or hand organ or handorgan, handsaw or hand saw, hand-weapon: measured or regulated by the hand; as, handbreadth or hand's breadth, hand gallop or hand-gallop. Most of the words in the following paragraph are written either as two words or in combination. Hand bag, a satchel; a small bag for carrying books, papers, parcels, etc.  -- Hand basket, a small or portable basket.  -- Hand bell, a small bell rung by the hand; a table bell. Bacon.  -- Hand bill, a small pruning hook. See 4th Bill.  -- Hand car. See under Car.  -- Hand director (Mus.), an instrument to aid in forming a good position of the hands and arms when playing on the piano; a hand guide.  -- Hand drop. See Wrist drop.  -- Hand gallop. See under Gallop.  -- Hand gear (Mach.), apparatus by means of which a machine, or parts of a machine, usually operated by other power, may be operated by hand.  -- Hand glass. (a) A glass or small glazed frame, for the protection of plants. (b) A small mirror with a handle.  -- Hand guide. Same as Hand director (above).  -- Hand language, the art of conversing by the hands, esp. as practiced by the deaf and dumb; dactylology.  -- Hand lathe. See under Lathe.  -- Hand money, money paid in hand to bind a contract; earnest money.  -- Hand organ (Mus.), a barrel organ, operated by a crank turned by hand.  -- Hand plant. (Bot.) Same as Hand tree (below).  -- Hand rail, a rail, as in staircases, to hold by. Gwilt.  -- Hand sail, a sail managed by the hand. Sir W. Temple.  -- Hand screen, a small screen to be held in the hand.  -- Hand screw, a small jack for raising heavy timbers or weights; (Carp.) a screw clamp.  -- Hand staff (pl. Hand staves), a javelin. Ezek. xxxix. 9.  -- Hand stamp, a small stamp for dating, addressing, or canceling papers, envelopes, etc.  -- Hand tree (Bot.), a lofty tree found in Mexico (Cheirostemon platanoides), having red flowers whose stamens unite in the form of a hand.  -- Hand vise, a small vise held in the hand in doing small work. Moxon.  -- Hand work, or Handwork, work done with the hands, as distinguished from work done by a machine; handiwork.  -- All hands, everybody; all parties.  -- At all hands, On all hands, on all sides; from every direction; generally.  -- At any hand, At no hand, in any (or no) way or direction; on any account; on no account. "And therefore at no hand consisting with the safety and interests of humility." Jer. Taylor.  -- At first hand, At second hand. See def. 10 (above).  -- At hand. (a) Near in time or place; either present and within reach, or not far distant. "Your husband is at hand; I hear his trumpet." Shak. (b) Under the hand or bridle. [Obs.] "Horses hot at hand." Shak.  -- At the hand of, by the act of; as a gift from. "Shall we receive good at the hand of God and shall we not receive evil" Job ii. 10.  -- Bridle hand. See under Bridle.  -- By hand, with the hands, in distinction from instrumentality of tools, engines, or animals; as, to weed a garden by hand; to lift, draw, or carry by hand.  -- Clean hands, freedom from guilt, esp. from the guilt of dishonesty in money matters, or of bribe taking. "He that hath clean hands shall be stronger and stronger." Job xvii. 9.  -- From hand to hand, from one person to another.  -- Hand in hand. (a) In union; conjointly; unitedly. Swift. (b) Just; fair; equitable. As fair and as good, a kind of hand in hand comparison. Shak. -- Hand over hand, Hand over fist, by passing the hands alternately one before or above another; as, to climb hand over hand; also, rapidly; as, to come up with a chase hand over hand.  -- Hand over head, negligently; rashly; without seeing what one does. [Obs.] Bacon.  -- Hand running, consecutively; as, he won ten times hand running.  -- Hand off! keep off! forbear! no interference or meddling! -- Hand to hand, in close union; in close fight; as, a hand to hand contest. Dryden.  -- Heavy hand, severity or oppression.  -- In hand. (a) Paid down. "A considerable reward in hand, and . . . a far greater reward hereafter." Tillotson. (b) In preparation; taking place. Chaucer. "Revels . . . in hand." Shak. (c) Under consideration, or in the course of transaction; as, he has the business in hand.  -- In one's hand or hands. (a) In one's possession or keeping. (b) At one's risk, or peril; as, I took my life in my hand.  -- Laying on of hands, a form used in consecrating to office, in the rite of confirmation, and in blessing persons.  -- Light hand, gentleness; moderation.  -- Note of hand, a promissory note.  -- Off hand, Out of hand, forthwith; without delay, hesitation, or difficulty; promptly. "She causeth them to be hanged up out of hand." Spenser.  -- Off one's hands, out of one's possession or care.  -- On hand, in present possession; as, he has a supply of goods on hand.  -- On one's hands, in one's possession care, or management.  -- Putting the hand under the thigh, an ancient Jewish ceremony used in swearing.  -- Right hand, the place of honor, power, and strength.  -- Slack hand, idleness; carelessness; inefficiency; sloth.  -- Strict hand, severe discipline; rigorous government.  -- To bear a hand (Naut), to give help quickly; to hasten.  -- To bear in hand, to keep in expectation with false pretenses. [Obs.] Shak.  -- To be hand and glove, or in glove with. See under Glove.  -- To be on the mending hand, to be convalescent or improving.  -- To bring up by hand, to feed (an infant) without suckling it.  -- To change hand. See Change.  -- To change hands, to change sides, or change owners. Hudibras.  -- To clap the hands, to express joy or applause, as by striking the palms of the hands together.  -- To come to hand, to be received; to be taken into possession; as, the letter came to hand yesterday.  -- To get hand, to gain influence. [Obs.] Appetites have . . . got such a hand over them. Baxter. -- To got one's hand in, to make a beginning in a certain work; to become accustomed to a particular business.  -- To have a hand in, to be concerned in; to have a part or concern in doing; to have an agency or be employed in.  -- To have in hand. (a) To have in one's power or control. Chaucer. (b) To be engaged upon or occupied with.  -- To have one's hands full, to have in hand al that one can do, or more than can be done conveniently; to be pressed with labor or engagements; to be surrounded with difficulties.  -- To have, or get, the (higher) upper hand, to have, or get, the better of another person or thing.  -- To his hand, To my hand, etc., in readiness; already prepared. "The work is made to his hands." Locke.  -- To hold hand, to compete successfully or on even conditions. [Obs.] Shak.  -- To lay hands on, to seize; to assault.  -- To lend a hand, to give assistance.  -- To lift, or put forth, the hand against, to attack; to oppose; to kill.  -- To live from hand to mouth, to obtain food and other necessaries as want compels, without previous provision.  -- To make one's hand, to gain advantage or profit.  -- To put the hand unto, to steal. Ex. xxii. 8.-- To put the last, or finishing, hand to, to make the last corrections in; to complete; to perfect.  -- To set the hand to, to engage in; to undertake. That the Lord thy God may bless thee in all that thou settest thine hand to. Deut. xxiii. 20. -- To stand one in hand, to concern or affect one.  -- To strike hands, to make a contract, or to become surety for another's debt or good behavior.  -- To take in hand. (a) To attempt or undertake. (b) To seize and deal with; as, he took him in hand.  -- To wash the hands of, to disclaim or renounce interest in, or responsibility for, a person or action; as, to wash one's hands of a business. Matt. xxvii. 24.  -- Under the hand of, authenticated by the handwriting or signature of; as, the deed is executed under the hand and seal of the owner. 

HAND:  To furl; -- said of a sail. Totten. To hand down, to transmit in succession, as from father to son, or from predecessor to successor; as, fables are handed down from age to age; to forward to the proper officer (the decision of a higher court); as, the Clerk of the Court of Appeals handed down its decision.  -- To hand over, to yield control of; to surrender; to deliver up. 

HAND:  To coöperate. [Obs.] Massinger. 

HANDBARROW:  A frame or barrow, without a wheel, carried by hand. 

HANDBOOK:  A book of reference, to be carried in the hand; a manual; a guidebook. 

HANDBREADTH:  A space equal to the breadth of the hand; a palm. Ex. xxxvii. 12. 

HANDCART:  A cart drawn or pushed by hand. 

HANDCLOTH:  A handkerchief. 

HANDCRAFT:  Same as Handicraft. 

HANDCRAFTSMAN:  A handicraftsman. 

HANDCUFF:  A fastening, consisting of an iron ring around the wrist, usually connected by a chain with one on the other wrist; a manacle; -- usually in the plural. 

HANDCUFF:  To apply handcuffs to; to manacle. Hay (1754). 

HANDER:  One who hands over or transmits; a conveyer in succession. Dryden. 

HANDFAST:  Fast by contract; betrothed by joining hands. [Obs.] Bale. 

HANDFAST:  To pledge; to bind; to betroth by joining hands, in order to cohabitation, before the celebration of marriage. [Obs.] 

HANDFAST:  Strong; steadfast.[R.] Carlyle. 

HANDFASTLY:  In a handfast or publicly pledged manner. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

HANDFISH:  The frogfish. 

HANDFUL:  A small hole in a boiler for the insertion of the hand in cleaning, etc. Hand-hole plate, the cover of a hand-hole. 

HANDICAP:  To encumber with a handicap in any contest; hence, in general, to place at disadvantage; as, the candidate was heavily handicapped. 

HANDICAPPER:  One who determines the conditions of a handicap. 

HANDICRAFTSMAN:  A man skilled or employed in handcraft. Bacon. 

HANDILY:  In a handy manner; skillfully; conveniently. 

HANDINESS:  The quality or state of being handy. 

HANDIRON:  See Andrion. [Obs.] 

HANDIWORK:  Work done by the hands; hence, any work done personally. The firmament showeth his handiwork. Ps. xix. 1. 

HANDKERCHER:  A handkerchief. [Obs. or Colloq.] Chapman (1654). Shak. 

HANDLE:  To use the hands. They have hands, but they handle not. Ps. cxv. 7. 

HANDLEABLE:  Capable of being handled. 

HANDLESS:  Without a hand. Shak. 

HANDLING:  The mode of using the pencil or brush, etc.; style of touch. Fairholt. 

HANDMADE:  Manufactured by hand; as, handmade shoes.  HANDMAID; HANDMAIDEN Hand"maid", Hand"maiden, n.  A maid that waits at hand; a female servant or attendant. 

HANDSAW:  A saw used with one hand. 

HANDSOME:  To render handsome. [Obs.] Donne 

HANDSOMELY:  Carefully; in shipshape style. 

HANDSOMENESS:  The quality of being handsome. Handsomeness is the mere animal excellence, beauty the mere imaginative. Hare. 

HANDSPIKE:  A bar or lever, generally of wood, used in a windlass or capstan, for heaving anchor, and, in modified forms, for various purposes. 

HANDSPRING:  A somersault made with the assistance of the hands placed upon the ground.  HAND-TIGHT Hand"-tight`, a. (Naut.)  As tight as can be made by the hand. Totten. 

HANDWHEEL:  Any wheel worked by hand; esp., one the rim of which serves as the handle by which a valve, car brake, or other part is adjusted.  HAND-WINGED Hand"-winged`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having wings that are like hands in the structure and arrangement of their bones; -- said of bats. See Cheiroptera. 

HANDY:  Easily managed; obedient to the helm; -- said of a vessel.  HANDY-DANDY Hand"y-dan`dy, n.  A child's play, one child guessing in which closed hand the other holds some small object, winning the object if right and forfeiting an equivalent if wrong; hence, forfeit. Piers Plowman. 

HANDYFIGHT:  A fight with the hands; boxing. "Pollux loves handyfights." B. Jonson. 

HANDYGRIPE:  Seizure by, or grasp of, the hand; also, close quarters in fighting. Hudibras. 

HANDYSTROKE:  A blow with the hand. 

HANDYWORK:  See Handiwork. 

HANGBIRD:  The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula); -- so called because its nest is suspended from the limb of a tree. See Baltimore oriole.  HANG-BY Hang"-by`, n.; pl. Hang-bies (.  A dependent; a hanger-on; -- so called in contempt. B. Jonson. 

HANGDOG:  A base, degraded person; a sneak; a gallows bird. 

HANGDOG:  , Low; sneaking; ashamed. The poor colonel went out of the room with a hangdog look. Thackeray. 

HANGER:  One who hangs on, or sticks to, a person, place, or service; a dependent; one who adheres to others' society longer than he is wanted. Goldsmith. 

HANGMAN:  One who hangs another; esp., one who makes a business of hanging; a public executioner; -- sometimes used as a term of reproach, without reference to office. Shak. 

HANGMANSHIP:  The office or character of a hangman. 

HANGNAIL:  A small piece or silver of skin which hangs loose, near the root of finger nail. Holloway. 

HANK:  A ring or eye of rope, wood, or iron, attached to the edge of a sail and running on a stay. 

HANK:  To fasten with a rope, as a gate. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.  2. To form into hanks. 

HANKERINGLY:  In a hankering manner.  HANKEY-PANKEY Han"key-pan"key, n. Etym: [Cf. Hocus-pocus.]  Professional cant; the chatter of conjurers to divert attention from their tricks; hence, jugglery. [Colloq.] 

HANOVERIAN:  Of or pertaining to Hanover or its people, or to the House of Hanover in England. 

HANOVERIAN:  A native or naturalized inhabitant of Hanover; one of the House of Hanover. 

HANSA:  See 2d Hanse. 

HANSARD:  An official report of proceedings in the British Parliament; -- so called from the name of the publishers. 

HANSARD:  A merchant of one of the Hanse towns. See the Note under 2d Hanse. 

HANSE:  That part of an elliptical or many-centered arch which has the shorter radius and immediately adjoins the impost. 

HANSE:  An association; a league or confederacy. Hanse towns (Hist.), certain commercial cities in Germany which associated themselves for the protection and enlarging of their commerce. The confederacy, called also Hansa and Hanseatic league, held its first diet in 1260, and was maintained for nearly four hundred years. At one time the league comprised eighty-five cities. Its remnants, Lübeck, Hamburg, and Bremen, are free cities, and are still frequently called Hanse towns. 

HANSEATIC:  Pertaining to the Hanse towns, or to their confederacy. Hanseatic league. See under 2d Hanse. 

HANSEL:  See Handsel. 

HANSELINES:  A sort of breeches. [Obs..] Chaucer.  HANSOM; HANSOM CAB Han"som, n., Han"som cab` (. Etym: [From the name of the inventor.]  A light, low, two-wheeled covered carriage with the driver's seat elevated behind, the reins being passed over the top. He hailed a cruising hansom . . . " 'Tis the gondola of London," said Lothair. Beaconsfield.  HAN'T; HAIN'T Han't.  A contraction of have not, or has not, used in illiterate speech. In the United States the commoner spelling is hain't.  HANUKKA; HANUKKAH Ha"nuk*ka, or Ha"nuk*kah, n. [Heb. khanukkah.]  The Jewish Feast of the Dedication, instituted by Judas Maccabæus, his brothers, and the whole congregation of Israel, in 165 b. c., to commemorate the dedication of the new altar set up at the purification of the temple of Jerusalem to replace the altar which had been polluted by Antiochus Epiphanes (1 Maccabees i. 58, iv. 59). The feast, which is mentioned in John x. 22, is held for eight days (beginning with the 25th day of Kislev, corresponding to December), and is celebrated everywhere, chiefly as a festival of lights, by the Jews. 

HANUMAN:  See Hoonoomaun. 

HAP:  To clothe; to wrap. The surgeon happed her up carefully. Dr. J. Brown. 

HAP:  A cloak or plaid. [O. Eng. & Scot.] 

HAP:  That which happens or comes suddenly or unexpectedly; also, the manner of occurrence or taking place; chance; fortune; accident; casual event; fate; luck; lot. Chaucer. Whether art it was or heedless hap. Spenser. Cursed be good haps, and cursed be they that build Their hopes on haps. Sir P. Sidney. Loving goes by haps: Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps. Shak. 

HAP:  To happen; to befall; to chance. Chaucer. Sends word of all that haps in Tyre. Shak.  HA'PENNY; HAP'PENNY Hap'"pen*ny, n.  A half-penny. 

HAPHAZARD:  Extra hazard; chance; accident; random. We take our principles at haphazard, upon trust. Locke. 

HAPHTARAH:  One of the lessons from the Nebiim (or Prophets) read in the Jewish synagogue on Sabbaths, feast days, fasts, and the ninth of Ab, at the end of the service, after the parashoth, or lessons from the Law. Such a practice is evidenced in Luke iv.17 and Acts xiii.15. 

HAPLESS:  Without hap or luck; luckless; unfortunate; unlucky; unhappy; as, hapless youth; hapless maid. Dryden. 

HAPLESSLY:  In a hapless, unlucky manner. 

HAPLOMI:  An order of freshwater fishes, including the true pikes, cyprinodonts, and blindfishes. 

HAPLOSTEMONOUS:  Having but one series of stamens, and that equal in number to the proper number of petals; isostemonous. 

HAPLY:  By hap, chance, luck, or accident; perhaps; it may be. Lest haply ye be found even to fight against God. Acts v. 39. 

HAPPED:  Wrapped; covered; cloaked. [Scot.] All happed with flowers in the green wood were. Hogg. 

HAPUKU:  A large and valuable food fish (Polyprion prognathus) of New Zealand. It sometimes weighs one hundred pounds or more. 

HAQUEBUT:  See Hagbut.  HARA-KIRI Ha"ra-ki`ri, n. Etym: [Jap., stomach cutting.]  Suicide, by slashing the abdomen, formerly practiced in Japan, and commanded by the government in the cases of disgraced officials; disembowelment; -- also written, but incorrectly, hari-kari. W. E. Griffis. 

HARANGUE:  A speech addressed to a large public assembly; a popular oration; a loud address a multitude; in a bad sense, a noisy or pompous speech; declamation; ranting. Gray-headed men and grave, with warriors mixed, Assemble, and harangues are heard. Milton.  Syn.  -- Harangue, Speech, Oration. Speech is generic; an oration is an elaborate and rhetorical speech; an harangue is a vehement appeal to the passions, or a noisy, disputatious address. A general makes an harangue to his troops on the eve of a battle; a demagogue harangues the populace on the subject of their wrongs. 

HARANGUE:  To make an harangue; to declaim. 

HARANGUE:  To address by an harangue. 

HARANGUEFUL:  Full of harangue. 

HARANGUER:  One who harangues, or is fond of haranguing; a declaimer. With them join'd all th' harangues of the throng, That thought to get preferment by the tongue. Dryden. 

HARASS:  To fatigue; to tire with repeated and exhausting efforts; esp., to weary by importunity, teasing, or fretting; to cause to endure excessive burdens or anxieties; -- sometimes followed by out. [Troops] harassed with a long and wearisome march. Bacon. Nature oppressed and harass'd out with care. Addison. Vext with lawyers and harass'd with debt. Tennyson.  Syn.  -- To weary; jade; tire; perplex; distress; tease; worry; disquiet; chafe; gall; annoy; irritate; plague; vex; molest; trouble; disturb; torment. 

HARASSER:  One who harasses. 

HARASSMENT:  The act of harassing, or state of being harassed; worry; annoyance; anxiety. Little harassments which I am led to suspect do occasionally molest the most fortunate. Ld. Lytton. 

HARBEROUS:  Harborous. [Obs.] A bishop must be faultless, the husband of one wife, honestly appareled, harberous. Tyndale (1 Tim. iii. 2) 

HARBINGER:  To usher in; to be a harbinger of. "Thus did the star of religious freedom harbinger the day." Bancroft. 

HARBOR:  The mansion of a heavenly body. [Obs.]  4. A portion of a sea, a lake, or other large body of water, either landlocked or artificially protected so as to be a place of safety for vessels in stormy weather; a port or haven.  5. (Glass Works)  A mixing box materials. Harbor dues (Naut.), fees paid for the use of a harbor.  -- Harbor seal (Zoöl.), the common seal.  -- Harbor watch, a watch set when a vessel is in port; an anchor watch. 

HARBOR:  To afford lodging to; to enter as guest; to receive; to give a refuge to; indulge or cherish (a thought or feeling, esp. an ill thought). Any place that harbors men. Shak. The bare suspicion made it treason to harbor the person suspected. Bp. Burnet. Let not your gentle breast harbor one thought of outrage. Rowe. 

HARBOR:  To lodge, or abide for a time; to take shelter, as in a harbor. For this night let's harbor here in York. Shak. 

HARBORAGE:  Shelter; entertainment.[R.] Where can I get me harborage for the night Tennyson. 

HARBORER:  One who, or that which, harbors. Geneva was . . . a harborer of exiles for religion. Strype. 

HARBORLESS:  Without a harbor; shelterless.  HARBOR MASTER Har"bor mas`ter.  An officer charged with the duty of executing the regulations respecting the use of a harbor.  HARBOROUGH; HARBROUGH Har"bor*ough, Har"brough,Etym: [See Harbor.]  A shelter. [Obs]. Spenser. 

HARBOROUS:  Hospitable. [Obs.] 

HARD:  To harden; to make hard. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HARD:  A ford or passage across a river or swamp. 

HARDBAKE:  A sweetmeat of boiled brown sugar or molasses made with almonds, and flavored with orange or lemon juice, etc. Thackeray. 

HARDBEAM:  A tree of the genus Carpinus, of compact, horny texture; hornbeam. 

HARDENED:  Made hard, or compact; made unfeeling or callous; made obstinate or obdurate; confirmed in error or vice.  Syn.  -- Impenetrable; hard; obdurate; callous; unfeeling; unsusceptible; insensible. See Obdurate. 

HARDENER:  One who, or that which, hardens; specif., one who tempers tools. 

HARDER:  A South African mullet, salted for food. 

HARDERIAN:  A term applied to a lachrymal gland on the inner side of the orbit of many animals which have a third eyelid, or nictitating membrane. See Nictitating membrane, under Nictitate.  HARD-FAVORED Hard"-fa`vored, a.  Hard-featured; ill-looking; as, Vulcan was hard-favored. Dryden. 

HARDFAVOREDNESS:  Coarseness of features.  HARD-FAVOREDNESS Hard"-fa`vored*ness, n.  Coarseness of features.  HARD-FEATURED Hard"-fea`tured, a  Having coarse, unattractive or stern features. Smollett. 

HARDFERN:  A species of fern (Lomaria borealis), growing in Europe and Northwestern America.  HARD-FISTED Hard"-fist`ed, a.  1. Having hard or strong hands; as, a hard-fisted laborer.  2. Close-fisted; covetous; niggardly. Bp. Hall.  HARD-FOUGHT Hard"-fought`, a. Vigorously  contested; as, a hard-fought battle.  HARD GRASS Hard" grass` (. (Bot.)  A name given to several different grasses, especially to the Roltböllia incurvata, and to the species of Ægilops, from one of which it is contended that wheat has been derived. 

HARDHACK:  A very astringent shrub (Spiræa tomentosa), common in pastures. The Potentilla fruticosa in also called by this name.  HARD-HANDED Hard"-hand`ed, a.  Having hard hands, as a manual laborer. Hard-handed men that work in Athens here. Shak. 

HARDHEAD:  Having sound judgment; sagacious; shrewd.  -- Hard"-head`ed*ness, n.  HARD-HEARTED Hard"-heart`ed, a.  Unsympathetic; inexorable; cruel; pitiless.  -- Hard"-heart`ed*ness, n. 

HARDIHEAD:  Hardihood. [Obs.] 

HARDIHOOD:  Boldness, united with firmness and constancy of mind; bravery; intrepidity; also, audaciousness; impudence. A bound of graceful hardihood. Wordsworth. It is the society of numbers which gives hardihood to iniquity. Buckminster.  Syn.  -- Intrepidity; courage; pluck; resolution; stoutness; audacity; effrontery; impudence. 

HARDIMENT:  Hardihood; boldness; courage; energetic action. [Obs.] Changing hardiment with great Glendower. Shak. 

HARDISH:  Somewhat hard.  HARD-LABORED Hard"-la`bored, a.  Wrought with severe labor; elaborate; studied. Swift. 

HARDLY:  Not sensible to the bit; not easily governed; as, a hard- mouthed horse. 

HARDNESS:  The cohesion of the particles on the surface of a body, determined by its capacity to scratch another, or be itself scratched;-measured among minerals on a scale of which diamond and talc form the extremes.  3. (Chem.)  The peculiar quality exhibited by water which has mineral salts dissolved in it. Such water forms an insoluble compound with soap, and is hence unfit for washing purposes.  Note: This quality is caused by the presence of calcium carbonate, causing temporary hardness which can be removed by boiling, or by calcium sulphate, causing permanent hardness which can not be so removed, but may be improved by the addition of sodium carbonate. 

HARDOCK:  See Hordock. 

HARDPAN:  The hard substratum. Same as Hard pan, under Hard, a. 

HARDS:  The refuse or coarse part of fiax; tow.  HARD-SHELL Hard"-shell`, a.  Unyielding; insensible to argument; uncompromising; strict. [Collog., U.S.] 

HARDSHIP:  That which is hard to hear, as toil, privation, injury, injustice, etc. Swift. 

HARDSPUN:  Firmly twisted in spinning.  HARD STEEL Hard steel.  Steel hardened by the addition of other elements, as manganese, phosphorus, or (usually) carbon.  HARD-TACK Hard"-tack`, n.  A name given by soldiers and sailors to a kind of hard biscuit or sea bread. 

HARDTAIL:  See Jurel.  HARD-VISAGED Hard"-vis`aged, a.  Of a harsh or stern countenance; hard-featured. Burke. 

HARDWARE:  Ware made of metal, as cutlery, kitchen utensils, and the like; ironmongery. 

HARDWAREMAN:  One who makes, or deals in, hardware. 

HARDY:  A blacksmith's fuller or chisel, having a square shank for insertion into a square hole in an anvil, called the hardy hole. 

HARE:  To excite; to tease, or worry; to harry. [Obs.] Locke. 

HARE:  A rodent of the genus Lepus, having long hind legs, a short tail, and a divided upper lip. It is a timid animal, moves swiftly by leaps, and is remarkable for its fecundity.  Note: The species of hares are numerous. The common European hare is Lepustimidus. The northern or varying hare of America (L. Americanus), and the prairie hare (L. campestris), turn white in winter. In America, the various species of hares are commonly called rabbits.  2. (Astron.)  A small constellation situated south of and under the foot of Orion; Lepus. Hare and hounds, a game played by men and boys, two, called hares, having a few minutes' start, and scattering bits of paper to indicate their course, being chased by the others, called the hounds, through a wide circuit.  -- Hare kangaroo (Zoöl.)., a small Australian kangaroo (Lagorchestes Leporoides), resembling the hare in size and color, -- Hare's lettuce (Bot.), a plant of the genus Sonchus, or sow thistle; -- so called because hares are said to eat it when fainting with heat. Dr. Prior.  -- Jumping hare. (Zoöl.) See under Jumping.  -- Little chief hare, or Crying hare. (Zoöl.) See Chief hare.  -- Sea hare. (Zoöl.) See Aplysia. 

HAREBELL:  A small, slender, branching plant (Campanula rotundifolia), having blue bell-shaped flowers; also, Scilla nutans, which has similar flowers; -- called also bluebell. [Written also hairbell.] E'en the light harebell raised its head. Sir W. Scott .  HAREBRAINED; HARE BRAINED Hare"brained`', a.  Wild; giddy; volatile; heedless. "A mad hare-brained fellow." North (Plutarch). [Written also hairbrained.] 

HAREFOOT:  A long, narrow foot, carried (that is, produced or extending) forward; -- said of dogs.  2. (Bot)  A tree (Ochroma Laqopus) of the West Indies, having the stamens united somewhat in the form of a hare's foot. Harefoot clover (Bot.), a species of clover (Trifolium arvense) with soft and silky heads.  HARE-HEARTED Hare"-heart`ed, a.  Timorous; timid; easily frightened. Ainsworth. 

HAREHOUND:  See Harrier. A. Chalmers. 

HARELD:  The long-tailed duck. See Old Squaw. 

HARELIP:  A lip, commonly the upper one, having a fissure of perpendicular division like that of a hare.  -- Hare"lipped`, a. 

HARENGIFORM:  Herring-shaped.  HARE'S-EAR Hare's"-ear`, n. (Bot.)  An umbelliferous plant (Bupleurum rotundifolium ); -- so named from the shape of its leaves. Dr. Prior.  HARE'S-FOOT FERN Hare's"-foot` fern`. (Bot.)  A species of fern (Davallia Canariensis) with a soft, gray, hairy rootstock; -- whence the name.  HARE'S-TAIL Hare's"-tail` (-tal`), n. (Bot.)  A kind of grass (Eriophorum vaginatum). See Cotton grass, under Cotton. Hare's-tail grass (Bot.), a species of grass (Lagurus ovatus) whose head resembles a hare's tail. 

HARFANG:  The snowy owl.  HARIALI GRASS Ha`ri*a"li grass`. (Bot.)  The East Indian name of the Cynodon Dactylon; dog's-grass. 

HARIER:  See Harrier. 

HARIKARI:  See Hara-kiri. 

HARIOLATION:  Prognostication; soothsaying. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

HARISH:  Like a hare. [R.] Huloet. 

HARK:  To listen; to hearken. [Now rare, except in the imperative form used as an interjection, Hark! listen.] Hudibras. Hark away! Hark back! Hark forward! (Sporting), cries used to incite and guide hounds in hunting.  -- To hark back, to go back for a fresh start, as when one has wandered from his direct course, or made a digression. He must have overshot the mark, and must hark back. Haggard. He harked back to the subject. W. E. Norris. 

HARKEN:  To hearken. Tennyson. 

HARLE:  The red-breasted merganser.  HARLECH GROUP Har"lech group`. Etym: [ So called from Harlech in Wales.] (Geol.)  A minor subdivision at the base of the Cambrian system in Wales. 

HARLEQUIN:  A buffoon, dressed in party-colored clothes, who plays tricks, often without speaking, to divert the bystanders or an audience; a merry-andrew; originally, a droll rogue of Italian comedy. Percy Smith. As dumb harlequin is exhibited in our theaters. Johnson. Harlequin bat (Zoöl.), an Indian bat (Scotophilus ornatus), curiously variegated with white spots.  -- Harlequin beetle (Zoöl.), a very large South American beetle (Acrocinus longimanus) having very long legs and antennæ. The elytra are curiously marked with red, black, and gray.  -- Harlequin cabbage bug. (Zoöl.) See Calicoback.  -- Harlequin caterpillar. (Zoöl.), the larva of an American bombycid moth (Euchætes egle) which is covered with black, white, yellow, and orange tufts of hair.  -- Harlequin duck (Zoöl.), a North American duck (Histrionicus histrionicus). The male is dark ash, curiously streaked with white.  -- Harlequin moth. (Zoöl.) See Magpie Moth.  -- Harlequin opal. See Opal.  -- Harlequin snake (Zoöl.), a small, poisonous snake (Elaps fulvius), ringed with red and black, found in the Southern United States. 

HARLEQUIN:  To play the droll; to make sport by playing ludicrous tricks. 

HARLEQUIN:  Toremove or conjure away, as by a harlequin's trick. And kitten,if the humor hit Has harlequined away the fit. M. Green. 

HARLEQUINADE:  A play or part of play in which the harlequin is conspicuous; the part of a harlequin. Macaulay. 

HARLOCK:  Probably a corruption either of charlock or hardock. Drayton. 

HARLOT:  Wanton; lewd; low; base. Shak. 

HARLOT:  To play the harlot; to practice lewdness. Milton. 

HARLOTIZE:  To harlot. [Obs.] Warner. 

HARM:  To hurt; to injure; to damage; to wrong. Though yet he never harmed me. Shak. No ground of enmity between us known Why he should mean me ill or seek to harm. Milton. 

HARMALINE:  An alkaloid found in the plant Peganum harmala. It forms bitter, yellow salts. 

HARMATTAN:  A dry, hot wind, prevailing on the Atlantic coast of Africa, in December, January, and February, blowing from the interior or Sahara. It is usually accompanied by a haze which obscures the sun. 

HARMEL:  A kind of rue (Ruta sylvestris) growing in India. At Lahore the seeds are used medicinally and for fumigation. 

HARMFUL:  Full of harm; injurious; hurtful; mischievous. " Most harmful hazards." Strype. --Harm"ful*ly, adv.  -- Harm"ful*ness, n. 

HARMINE:  An alkaloid accompanying harmaline (in the Peganum harmala), and obtained from it by oxidation. It is a white crystalline substance. 

HARMLESS:  Relating to harmony, -- as melodic relates to melody; harmonious; esp., relating to the accessory sounds or overtones which accompany the predominant and apparent single tone of any string or sonorous body.  3. (Math.)  Having relations or properties bearing some resemblance to those of musical consonances; -- said of certain numbers, ratios, proportions, points, lines. motions, and the like. Harmonic interval (Mus.), the distance between two notes of a chord, or two consonant notes.  -- Harmonical mean (Arith. & Alg.), certain relations of numbers and quantities, which bear an analogy to musical consonances.  -- Harmonic motion, the motion of the point A, of the foot of the perpendicular PA, when P moves uniformly in the circumference of a circle, and PA is drawn perpendicularly upon a fixed diameter of the circle. This is simple harmonic motion. The combinations, in any way, of two more simple harmonic motions, make other kinds of harmonic motion. The motion of the pendulum bob of a clock is approximately simple harmonic motion.  -- Harmonic proportion. See under Proportion.  -- Harmonic series or progression. See under Progression.  -- Spherical harmonic analysis, a mathematical method, sometimes referred to as that of Laplace's Coefficients, which has for its object the expression of an arbitrary, periodic function of two independent variables, in the proper form for a large class of physical problems, involving arbitrary data, over a spherical surface, and the deduction of solutions for every point of space. The functions employed in this method are called spherical harmonic functions. Thomson & Tait.  -- Harmonic suture (Anat.), an articulation by simple apposition of comparatively smooth surfaces or edges, as between the two superior maxillary bones in man; -- called also harmonic, and harmony.  -- Harmonic triad (Mus.), the chord of a note with its third and fifth; the common chord. 

HARMONIC:  A musical note produced by a number of vibrations which is a multiple of the number producing some other; an overtone. See Harmonics. 

HARMONICALLY:  In harmonical progression. 

HARMONICON:  A small, flat, wind instrument of music, in which the notes are produced by the vibration of free metallic reeds. 

HARMONICS:  Secondary and less distinct tones which accompany any principal, and apparently simple, tone, as the octave, the twelfth, the fifteenth, and the seventeenth. The name is also applied to the artificial tones produced by a string or column of air, when the impulse given to it suffices only to make a part of the string or column vibrate; overtones. 

HARMONIPHON:  An obsolete wind instrument with a keyboard, in which the sound, which resembled the oboe, was produced by the vibration of thin metallic plates, acted upon by blowing through a tube. 

HARMONIST:  One who understands the principles of harmony or is skillful in applying them in composition; a musical composer.  HARMONIST; HARMONITE Har"mo*nist, Har"mo*nite, n. (Eccl. Hist.)  One of a religious sect, founded in Würtemburg in the last century, composed of followers of George Rapp, a weaver. They had all their property in common. In 1803, a portion of this sect settled in Pennsylvania and called the village thus established, Harmony. 

HARMONIUM:  A musical instrument, resembling a small organ and especially designed for church music, in which the tones are produced by forcing air by means of a bellows so as to cause the vibration of free metallic reeds. It is now made with one or two keyboards, and has pedals and stops. 

HARMONIZATION:  The act of harmonizing. 

HARMONIZE:  To accompany with harmony; to provide with parts, as an air, or melody. 

HARMONIZER:  One who harmonizes. 

HARMONOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the harmonic relations of sounds. It is often a monochord furnished with movable bridges. 

HARMONY:  See Harmonic suture, under Harmonic. Close harmony, Dispersed harmony, etc. See under Close, Dispersed, etc.  -- Harmony of the spheres. See Music of the spheres, under Music.  Syn.  -- Harmony, Melody. Harmony results from the concord of two or more strains or sounds which differ in pitch and quality. Melody denotes the pleasing alternation and variety of musical and measured sounds, as they succeed each other in a single verse or strain. 

HARMOST:  A governor or prefect appointed by the Spartans in the cities subjugated by them. 

HARMOTOME:  A hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta, occurring usually in white cruciform crystals; cross-stone.  Note: A related mineral, called lime harmotome, and Phillipsite, contains lime in place of baryta. Dana. 

HARNESS:  A tub lashed to a vessel's deck and containing salted provisions for daily use; -- called also harness tub. W. C. Russell. 

HARNESSER:  One who harnesses. 

HARNS:  The brains. [Scot.] 

HARP:  A constellation; Lyra, or the Lyre.  3. A grain sieve. [Scot.] Æolian harp. See under Æolian. Harp seal (Zoöl.), an arctic seal (Phoca Groenlandica). The adult males have a light-colored body, with a harp-shaped mark of black on each side, and the face and throat black. Called also saddler, and saddleback. The immature ones are called bluesides.  -- Harp shell (Zoöl.), a beautiful marine gastropod shell of the genus Harpa, of several species, found in tropical seas. See Harpa. 

HARP:  To play on, as a harp; to play (a tune) on the harp; to develop or give expression to by skill and art; to sound forth as from a harp; to hit upon. Thou 'harped my fear aright. Shak. 

HARPA:  A genus of marine univalve shells; the harp shells; -- so called from the form of the shells, and their ornamental ribs. 

HARPAGON:  A grappling iron. [Obs.] 

HARPING:  Pertaining to the harp; as, harping symphonies. Milton.  HARPING IRON Harp"ing i`ron. Etym: [F.harper to grasp strongly. See Harpoon.]  A harpoon. Evelyn. 

HARPINGS:  The fore parts of the wales, which encompass the bow of a vessel, and are fastened to the stem. [Written also harpins.] Totten. 

HARPIST:  A player on the harp; a harper. W. Browne. 

HARPOON:  A spear or javelin used to strike and kill large fish, as whales; a harping iron. It consists of a long shank, with a broad, fiat, triangular head, sharpened at both edges, and is thrown by hand, or discharged from a gun. Harpoon fork, a kind of hayfork, consisting of bar with hinged barbs at one end a loop for a rope at the other end, used for lifting hay from the load by horse power.  -- Harpoon gun, a gun used in the whale fishery for shooting the harpoon into a whale. 

HARPOON:  To strike, catch, or kill with a harpoon. 

HARPOONEER:  An harpooner. Grabb. 

HARPOONER:  One who throws the harpoon. 

HARPRESS:  A female harper. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

HARPSICHON:  A harpsichord. [Obs.] 

HARPSICHORD:  A harp-shaped instrument of music set horizontally on legs, like the grand piano, with strings of wire, played by the fingers, by means of keys provided with quills, instead of hammers, for striking the strings. It is now superseded by the piano. 

HARPY:  A fabulous winged monster, ravenous and filthy, having the face of a woman and the body of a vulture, with long claws, and the face pale with hunger. Some writers mention two, others three. Both table and provisions vanished guite. With sound of harpies' wings and talons heard. Milton.  2. One who is rapacious or ravenous; an extortioner. The harpies about all pocket the pool. Goldsmith.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) The European moor buzzard or marsh harrier (Circus æruginosus). (b) A large and powerful, double-crested, short-winged American eagle (Thrasaëtus harpyia). It ranges from Texas to Brazil. Harpy bat (Zoöl.) (a) An East Indian fruit bat of the genus Harpyia (esp. H. cerphalotes), having prominent, tubular nostrils. (b) A small, insectivorous Indian bat (Harpiocephalus harpia). Harpy fly (Zoöl.), the house fly.  HARQUEBUS; HARQUEBUSE Har"que*bus, Har"que*buse, n. Etym: [See Arquebus.]  A firearm with match holder, trigger, and tumbler, made in the second half of the 15th century. the barrel was about forty inches long. A form of the harquebus was subsequently called arquebus with matchlock. 

HARRAGE:  To harass; to plunder from. [Obs.] Fuller. 

HARRE:  A hinge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HARRIDAN:  A worn-out strumpet; a vixenish woman; a hag. Such a weak, watery, wicked old harridan, substituted for the pretty creature I had been used to see. De Quincey. 

HARRIER:  One of a small breed of hounds, used for hunting hares. [Written also harier.] 

HARRIER:  One of several species of hawks or buzzards of the genus Circus which fly low and harry small animals or birds, -- as the European marsh harrier (Circus ærunginosus), and the hen harrier (C. cyaneus). Harrier hawk(Micrastur. 

HARROW:  An obstacle formed by turning an ordinary harrow upside down, the frame being buried. Bush harrow, a kind of light harrow made of bushes, for harrowing grass lands and covering seeds, or to finish the work of a toothed harrow.  -- Drill harrow. See under 6th Drill.  -- Under the harrow, subjected to actual torture with a toothed instrument, or to great affliction or oppression. 

HARROW:  Help! Halloo! An exclamation of distress; a call for succor;- the ancient Norman hue and cry. "Harrow and well away!" Spenser. Harrow! alas! here lies my fellow slain. Chaucer. 

HARROW:  To pillage; to harry; to oppress. [Obs.] Spenser. Meaning thereby to harrow his people. Bacon 

HARROWER:  One who harrows. 

HARROWER:  One who harries. [Obs.] 

HARRY:  To make a predatory incursion; to plunder or lay waste. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

HARSH:  Having violent contrasts of color, or of light and shade; lacking in harmony. 

HARSHLY:  In a harsh manner; gratingly; roughly; rudely. 'T will sound harshly in her ears. Shak. 

HARSHNESS:  The quality or state of being harsh. O, she is Ten times more gentle than her father 's crabbed, And he's composed of harshness. Shak. 'Tis not enough no harshness gives offense, The sound must seem an echo to the sense. Pope.  Syn.  -- Acrimony; roughness; sternness; asperity; tartness. See Acrimony. 

HARSLET:  See Haslet. 

HART:  A stag; the male of the red deer. See the Note under Buck. Goodliest of all the forest, hart and hind. Milton. 

HARTBEEST:  A large South African antelope (Alcelaphus caama), formerly much more abundant than it is now. The face and legs are marked with black, the rump with white. [Written also hartebeest, and hartebest.] 

HARTEN:  To hearten; to encourage; to incite. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HARTFORD:  The Hartford grape, a variety of grape first raised at Hartford, Connecticut, from the Northern fox grape. Its large dark- colored berries ripen earlier than those of most other kinds.  HART'S CLOVER Hart's` clo`ver. (Bot.)  Melilot or sweet clover. See Melilot.  HART'S-EAR Hart's`-ear`, n. (Bot.)  An Asiatic species of Cacalia (C. Kleinia), used medicinally in India. 

HARTWORT:  A coarse umbelliferous plant of Europe (Tordylium maximum).  Note: The name is often vaguely given to other plants of the same order, as species of Seseli and Bupleurum.  HARUM-SCARUM Har"um-scar"um, a. Etym: [Cf. hare,v. t., and scare, v. t.]  Wild; giddy; flighty; rash; thoughtless. [Colloq.] They had a quarrel with Sir Thomas Newcome's own son, a harum-scarum lad. Thackeray. 

HARUSPICATION:  See Haruspicy. Tylor. 

HARUSPICE:  A diviner of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspice. 

HARUSPICY:  The art or practices of haruspices. See Aruspicy. 

HARVEST:  To reap or gather, as any crop. 

HARVESTER:  A harvesting ant.  HARVEST-HOME Har"vest-home", n.  1. The gathering and bringing home of the harvest; the time of harvest. Showed like a stubble land at harvest-home. Shak.  2. The song sung by reapers at the feast made at the close of the harvest; the feast itself. Dryden.  3. A service of thanksgiving, at harvest time, in the Church of England and in the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States.  4. The opportunity of gathering treasure. Shak. 

HARVESTING:  , from Harvest, v. t. Harvesting ant (Zoöl.), any species of ant which gathers and stores up seeds for food. Many species are known.  Note: The species found in Southern Europe and Palestine are Aphenogaster structor and A. barbara; that of Texas, called agricultural ant, is Pogonomyrmex barbatus or Myrmica molifaciens; that of Florida is P. crudelis. See Agricultural ant, under Agricultural. 

HARVESTLESS:  Without harvest; lacking in crops; barren. "Harvestless autumns." Tennyson. 

HARVESTMAN:  See Daddy longlegs, 1. 

HARVESTRY:  The act of harvesting; also, that which is harvested. Swinburne.  HARVEY PROCESS Har"vey proc"ess. (Metal.)  A process of hardening the face of steel, as armor plates, invented by Hayward A. Harvey of New Jersey, consisting in the additional carburizing of the face of a piece of low carbon steel by subjecting it to the action of carbon under long-continued pressure at a very high heat, and then to a violent chilling, as by a spray of cold water. This process gives an armor plate a thick surface of extreme hardness supported by material gradually decreasing in hardness to the unaltered soft steel at the back. 

HARY:  To draw; to drag; to carry off by vio [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HAS:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Have. 

HASARD:  Hazard. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HASE:  See Haze, v. t. 

HASH:  To as, to hash meat. Hudibras.  HASHEESH; HASHISH Hash"eesh, Hash"ish, n. Etym: [Ar. hashish.]  A slightly acrid gum resin produced by the common hemp (Cannabis saltiva), of the variety Indica, when cultivated in a warm climate; also, the tops of the plant, from which the resinous product is obtained. It is narcotic, and has long been used in the East for its intoxicating effect. See Bhang, and Ganja. 

HASK:  A basket made of rushes or flags, as for carrying fish. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HASLET:  The edible viscera, as the heart, liver, etc., of a beast, esp. of a hog. [Written also harslet.] 

HASP:  To shut or fasten with a hasp. 

HAST:  , 2d pers. sing. pres. of. Fave, contr. of havest. [Archaic]  HASTATE; HASTATED Has"tate, Has"ta*ted, a. Etym: [L. hastatus, fr. hasta spear. Cf. Gad, n.]  Shaped like the head of a halberd; triangular, with the basal angles or lobes spreading; as, a hastate leaf. 

HASTE:  To hasten; to hurry. [Archaic] I 'll haste the writer. Shak. They were troubled and hasted away. Ps. xlviii. 5. 

HASTEN:  To press; to drive or urge forward; to push on; to precipitate; to accelerate the movement of; to expedite; to hurry. I would hasten my escape from the windy storm. Ps. lv. 8. 

HASTEN:  To move celerity; to be rapid in motion; to act speedily or quickly; to go quickly. I hastened to the spot whence the noise came. D 

HASTIF:  Hasty. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- Has"tif*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

HASTILE:  Same as Hastate. Gray. 

HASTINESS:  The quality or state of being hasty; haste; precipitation; rashness; quickness of temper. 

HASTINGS:  Early fruit or vegetables; especially, early pease. Mortimer.  HASTINGS SANDS Has"tings sands". (Geol.)  The lower group of the Wealden formation; -- so called from its development around Hastings, in Sussex, England. 

HASTIVE:  Forward; early; -- said of fruits. [Obs.] 

HASTY:  Proceeding from, or indicating, a quick temper. Take no unkindness of his hasty words. Shak  6. Forward; early; first ripe. [Obs.] "As the hasty fruit before the summer." Is. xxviii. 4.  HASTY PUDDING Has"ty pud"ding.  1. A thick batter pudding made of Indian meal stirred into boiling water; mush. [U. S.]  2. A batter or pudding made of flour or oatmeal, stirred into boiling water or milk. [Eng.] 

HAT:  Hot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HAT:  sing. pres. of Hote to be called. Cf. Hatte. [Obs.] "That one hat abstinence." Piers Plowman. 

HAT:  A covering for the head; esp., one with a crown and brim, made of various materials, and worn by men or women for protecting the head from the sun or weather, or for ornament. Hat block, a block on which hats are formed or dressed.  -- To pass around the hat, to take up a collection of voluntary contributions, which are often received in a hat. [Collog.] Lowell. 

HATABLE:  Capable of being, or deserving to be, hated; odious; detestable. 

HATBAND:  A band round the crown of a hat; sometimes, a band of black cloth, crape, etc., worn as a badge of mourning. 

HATBOX:  A box for a hat. 

HATCH:  To produce young; -- said of eggs; to come forth from the egg; -- said of the young of birds, fishes, insects, etc. 

HATCH:  An opening into, or in search of, a mine. Booby hatch, Buttery hatch, Companion hatch, etc. See under Booby, Buttery, etc.  -- To batten down the hatches (Naut.), to lay tarpaulins over them, and secure them with battens.  -- To be under hatches, to be confined below in a vessel; to be under arrest, or in slavery, distress, etc. 

HATCH:  To close with a hatch or hatches. 'T were not amiss to keep our door hatched. Shak  HATCH-BOAT Hatch"-boat`, n. (Naut.)  A vessel whose deck consists almost wholly of movable hatches; -- used mostly in the fisheries. 

HATCHEL:  An instrument with long iron teeth set in a board, for cleansing flax or hemp from the tow, hards, or coarse part; a kind of large comb; -- called also hackle and heckle. 

HATCHELER:  One who uses a hatchel. 

HATCHERY:  A house for hatching fish, etc. 

HATCHET:  1. A person hired to murder or physically attack another; a hit man.  2. A person who deliberately tries to ruin the reputation of another, often unscrupulously, by slander or other malicious communication, often with political motive, and sometimes for pay.  HATCHETTINE; HATCHETTITE Hatch"et*tine, Hatch"et*tite, n. Etym: [Named after the discoverer, Charles Hatchett.] (Min.)  Mineral t 

HATCHING:  A mode of execution in engraving, drawing, and miniature painting, in which shading is produced by lines crossing each other at angles more or less acute; -- called also crosshatching. 

HATCHMENT:  A sort of panel, upon which the arms of a deceased person are temporarily displayed, -- usually on the walls of his dwelling. It is lozenge-shaped or square, but is hung cornerwise. It is used in England as a means of giving public notification of the death of the deceased, his or her rank, whether married, widower, widow, etc. Called also achievement. His obscure funeral; No trophy, sword, or hatchment o'er his bones. Shak.  2. A sword or other mark of the profession of arms; in general, a mark of dignity. Let there be deducted, out of our main potation, Five marks in hatchments to adorn this thigh. Beau. & Fl. 

HATCHURE:  Same as Hachure. 

HATCHWAY:  A square or oblong opening in a deck or floor, affording passage from one deck or story to another; the entrance to a cellar. 

HATE:  To love less, relatively. Luke xiv. 26.  Syn.  -- To Hate, Abhor, Detest, Abominate, Loathe. Hate is the generic word, and implies that one is inflamed with extreme dislike. We abhor what is deeply repugnant to our sensibilities or feelings. We detest what contradicts so utterly our principles and moral sentiments that we feel bound to lift up our voice against it. What we abominate does equal violence to our moral and religious sentiments. What we loathe is offensive to our own nature, and excites unmingled disgust. Our Savior is said to have hated the deeds of the Nicolaitanes; his language shows that he loathed the lukewarmness of the Laodiceans; he detested the hypocrisy of the scribes and Pharisees; he abhorred the suggestions of the tempter in the wilderness. 

HATE:  Strong aversion coupled with desire that evil should befall the person toward whom the feeling is directed; as exercised toward things, intense dislike; hatred; detestation; -- opposed to love. For in a wink the false love turns to hate. Tennyson. 

HATEL:  Hateful; detestable. [Obs.] 

HATER:  One who hates. An enemy to God, and a hater of all good. Sir T. Browne. 

HATH:  Has. [Archaic.] 

HATLESS:  Having no hat. 

HATRACK:  A hatstand; hattree. 

HATRED:  Strong aversion; intense dislike; hate; an affection of the mind awakened by something regarded as evil.  Syn.  -- Odium; ill will; enmity; hate; animosity; malevolence; rancor; malignity; detestation; loathing; abhorrence; repugnance; antipathy. See Odium. 

HATSTAND:  A stand of wood or iron, with hooks or pegs upon which to hang hats, etc. 

HATTE:  pres. & imp. sing. & pl. of Hote, to be called. See Hote. [Obs.] Chaucer. A full perilous place, purgatory it hatte. Piers Plowman. 

HATTED:  Covered with a hat. 

HATTER:  To tire or worry; -- out. [Obs.] Dryden. 

HATTER:  One who makes or sells hats. 

HATTERIA:  A New Zealand lizard, which, in anatomical character, differs widely from all other existing lizards. It is the only living representative of the order Rhynchocephala, of which many Mesozoic fossil species are known; -- called also Sphenodon, and Tuatera. 

HATTING:  The business of making hats; also, stuff for hats.  HATTI-SHERIF Hat"ti-sher`if, n. Etym: [Turk., fr. Ar. knatt a writing + sherif noble.]  A irrevocable Turkish decree countersigned by the sultan. 

HATTREE:  A hatstand. 

HAUBERGEON:  See Habergeon. 

HAUBERK:  A coat of mail; especially, the long coat of mail of the European Middle Ages, as contrasted with the habergeon, which is shorter and sometimes sleeveless. By old writers it is often used synonymously with habergeon. See Habergeon. [Written variously hauberg, hauberque, hawberk, etc.] Chaucer. Helm, nor hawberk's twisted mail. Gray. 

HAUERITE:  Native sulphide of manganese a reddish brown or brownish black mineral. 

HAUGH:  A low-lying meadow by the side of a river. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] On a haugh or level plain, near to a royal borough. Sir W. Scott. 

HAUGHT:  High; elevated; hence, haughty; proud. [Obs.] Shak. 

HAUGHTILY:  In a haughty manner; arrogantly. 

HAUGHTINESS:  The quality of being haughty; disdain; arrogance.  Syn.  -- Arrogance; disdain; contemptuousness; superciliousness; loftiness.  -- Haughtiness, Arrogance, Disdain. Haughtiness denotes the expression of conscious and proud superiority; arrogance is a disposition to claim for one's self more than is justly due, and enforce it to the utmost; disdain in the exact reverse of condescension toward inferiors, since it expresses and desires others to feel how far below ourselves we consider them. A person is haughty in disposition and demeanor; arrogant in his claims of homage and deference; disdainful even in accepting the deference which his haughtiness leads him arrogantly to exact. 

HAUL:  To change the direction of a ship by hauling the wind. See under Haul, v. t. I . . . hauled up for it, and found it to be an island. Cook.  2. To pull apart, as oxen sometimes do when yoked. To haul around (Naut.), to shift to any point of the compass; -- said of the wind.  -- To haul off (Naut.), to sail closer to the wind, in order to get farther away from anything; hence, to withdraw; to draw back. 

HAUL:  A bundle of about four hundred threads, to be tarred. 

HAULABOUT:  A bargelike vessel with steel hull, large hatchways, and coal transporters, for coaling war vessels from its own hold or from other colliers. 

HAULAGE:  Act of hauling; as, the haulage of cars by an engine; charge for hauling. 

HAULER:  One who hauls. 

HAULM:  The denuded stems or stalks of such crops as buckwheat and the cereal grains, beans, etc.; straw. 

HAULM:  A part of a harness; a hame. 

HAULS:  See Hals. 

HAULSE:  See Halse. 

HAULT:  Lofty; haughty. [Obs.] Through support of countenance proud and hault. Spenser. 

HAUM:  See Haulm, stalk. Smart. 

HAUNCE:  To enhance. [Obs.] Lydgate. 

HAUNCHED:  Having haunches. 

HAUNT:  To persist in staying or visiting. I've charged thee not to haunt about my doors. Shak. 

HAUNTED:  Inhabited by, or subject to the visits of, apparitions; frequented by a ghost. All houses wherein men have lived and died Are haunted houses. Longfellow. 

HAUNTER:  One who, or that which, haunts. 

HAURIENT:  In pale, with the head in chief; -- said of the figure of a fish, as if rising for air. 

HAUSEN:  A large sturgeon (Acipenser huso) from the region of the Black Sea. It is sometimes twelve feet long. 

HAUSSE:  A kind of graduated breech sight for a small arm, or a cannon. 

HAUSTELLATA:  An artificial division of insects, including all those with a sucking proboscis. 

HAUSTELLATE:  Provided with a haustellum, or sucking proboscis.  -- n.  One of the Haustellata. 

HAUSTELLUM:  The sucking proboscis of various insects. See Lepidoptera, and Diptera. 

HAUSTORIUM:  One of the suckerlike rootlets of such plants as the dodder and ivy. R. Brown. 

HAUT:  Haughty. [Obs.] "Nations proud and haut." Milton. 

HAUTBOY:  A wind instrument, sounded through a reed, and similar in shape to the clarinet, but with a thinner tone. Now more commonly called oboe. See Illust. of Oboe.  2. (Bot.)  A sort of strawberry (Fragaria elatior). 

HAUTBOYIST:  A player on the hautboy. 

HAUTEUR:  Haughty manner or spirit; haughtiness; pride; arrogance. 

HAUTGOUT:  High relish or flavor; high seasoning. 

HAUTPAS:  A raised part of the floor of a large room; a platform for a raised table or throne. See Dais. 

HAUYNITE:  A blue isometric mineral, characteristic of some volcani 

HAVANA:  Of or pertaining to Havana, the capital of the island of Cuba; as, an Havana cigar; -- formerly sometimes written Havannah.  -- n.  An Havana cigar. Young Frank Clavering stole his father's Havannahs, and . . . smoked them in the stable. Thackeray. 

HAVANESE:  Of or pertaining to Havana, in Cuba.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or inhabitant, or the people, of Havana. 

HAVELESS:  Having little or nothing. [Obs.] Gower. 

HAVELOCK:  A light cloth covering for the head and neck, used by soldiers as a protection from sunstroke. 

HAVEN:  To shelter, as in a haven. Keats. 

HAVENAGE:  Harbor dues; port dues. 

HAVENED:  Sheltered in a haven. Blissful havened both from joy and pain. Keats. 

HAVENER:  A harbor master. [Obs.] 

HAVER:  A possessor; a holder. Shak. 

HAVER:  The oat; oats. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Haver bread, oaten bread.  -- Haver cake, oaten cake. Piers Plowman.  -- Haver grass, the wild oat.  -- Haver meal, oatmeal. 

HAVER:  To maunder; to talk foolishly; to chatter. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

HAVERSIAN:  Pertaining to, or discovered by, Clopton Havers, an English physician of the seventeenth century. Haversian canals (Anat.), the small canals through which the blood vessels ramify in bone. 

HAVIER:  A castrated deer.  Haviers, or stags which have been gelded when young, have no horns. Encyc. of Sport. 

HAVILDAR:  In the British Indian armies, a noncommissioned officer of native soldiers, corresponding to a sergeant. Havildar major, a native sergeant major in the East Indian army. 

HAVING:  Possession; goods; estate. I 'll lend you something; my having is not much. Shak. 

HAVIOR:  Behavior; demeanor. [Obs.] Shak. 

HAVOC:  Wide and general destruction; devastation; waste. As for Saul, he made havoc of the church. Acts viii. 3. Ye gods, what havoc does ambition make Among your works! Addison. 

HAVOC:  To devastate; to destroy; to lay waste. To waste and havoc yonder world. Milton. 

HAVOC:  A cry in war as the signal for indiscriminate slaughter. Toone. Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt With modest warrant. Shak. Cry 'havoc,' and let slip the dogs of war! Shak. 

HAW:  The third eyelid, or nictitating membrane. See Nictitating membrane, under Nictitate. 

HAW:  An intermission or hesitation of speech, with a sound somewhat like haw! also, the sound so made. "Hums or haws." Congreve. 

HAW:  To stop, in speaking, with a sound like haw; to speak with interruption and hesitation. Cut it short; don't prose -- don't hum and haw. Chesterfield. 

HAW:  To turn to the near side, or toward the driver; -- said of cattle or a team: a word used by teamsters in guiding their teams, and most frequently in the imperative. See Gee. To haw and gee, or To haw and gee about, to go from one thing to another without good reason; to have no settled purpose; to be irresolute or unstable. [Colloq.] 

HAW:  To cause to turn, as a team, to the near side, or toward the driver; as, to haw a team of oxen. To haw and gee, or To haw and gee about, to lead this way and that at will; to lead by the nose; to master or control. [Colloq.] 

HAWAIIAN:  Belonging to Hawaii or the Sandwich Islands, or to the people of Hawaii.  -- n.  A native of Hawaii. 

HAWEBAKE:  Probably, the baked berry of the hawthorn tree, that is, coarse fare. See 1st Haw, 2. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HAWFINCH:  The common European grosbeak (Coccothraustes vulgaris); -- called also cherry finch, and coble.  HAW-HAW Haw-haw", n. Etym: [Duplication of haw a hedge.]  See Ha-ha. 

HAWHAW:  To laugh boisterously. [Colloq. U. S.] We haw-haw'd, I tell you, for more than half an hour. Major Jack Downing. 

HAWK:  One of numerous species and genera of rapacious birds of the family Falconidæ. They differ from the true falcons in lacking the prominent tooth and notch of the bill, and in having shorter and less pointed wings. Many are of large size and grade into the eagles. Some, as the goshawk, were formerly trained like falcons. In a more general sense the word is not infrequently applied, also, to true falcons, as the sparrow hawk, pigeon hawk, duck hawk, and prairie hawk.  Note: Among the common American species are the red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis); the red-shouldered (B. lineatus); the broad-winged (B. Pennsylvanicus); the rough-legged (Archibuteo lagopus); the sharp-shinned Accipiter fuscus). See Fishhawk, Goshawk, Marsh hawk, under Marsh, Night hawk, under Night. Bee hawk (Zoöl.), the honey buzzard.  -- Eagle hawk. See under Eagle.  -- Hawk eagle (Zoöl.), an Asiatic bird of the genus Spizætus, or Limnætus, intermediate between the hawks and eagles. There are several species.  -- Hawk fly (Zoöl.), a voracious fly of the family Asilidæ. See Hornet fly, under Hornet.  -- Hawk moth. (Zoöl.) See Hawk moth, in the Vocabulary.  -- Hawk owl. (Zoöl.) (a) A northern owl (Surnia ulula) of Europe and America. It flies by day, and in some respects resembles the hawks. (b) An owl of India (Ninox scutellatus).  -- Hawk's bill (Horology), the pawl for the rack, in the striking mechanism of a clock. 

HAWK:  To clear the throat with an audible sound by forcing an expiratory current of air through the narrow passage between the depressed soft palate and the root of the tongue, thus aiding in the removal of foreign substances. 

HAWK:  To raise by hawking, as phlegm. 

HAWK:  An effort to force up phlegm from the throat, accompanied with noise. 

HAWK:  To offer for sale by outcry in the street; to carry (merchandise) about from place to place for sale; to peddle; as, to hawk goods or pamphlets. His works were hawked in every street. Swift. 

HAWK:  A small board, with a handle on the under side, to hold mortar. Hawk boy, an attendant on a plasterer to supply him with mortar. 

HAWKBILL:  A sea turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata), which yields the best quality of tortoise shell; -- called also caret. 

HAWKBIT:  The fall dandelion (Leontodon autumnale). 

HAWKED:  Curved like a hawk's bill; crooked. 

HAWKER:  One who sells wares by crying them in the street; hence, a peddler or a packman. 

HAWKER:  To sell goods by outcry in the street. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

HAWKER:  A falconer. 

HAWKEY:  See Hockey. Holloway.  HAWK-EYED Hawk"-eyed`, a.  Having a keen eye; sharpsighted; discerning.  HAWKEYE STATE Hawk"eye` State.  Iowa; -- a nickname of obscure origin.  HAWK MOTH Hawk" moth`. (Zoöl.)  Any moth of the family Sphingidæ, of which there are numerous genera and species. They are large, handsome moths, which fly mostly at twilight and hover about flowers like a humming bird, sucking the honey by means of a long, slender proboscis. The larvæ are large, hairless caterpillars ornamented with green and other bright colors, and often with a caudal spine. See Sphinx, also Tobacco worm, and Tomato worm. Tobacco Hawk Moth (Macrosila Carolina), and its Larva, the Tobacco Worm.  Note: The larvæ of several species of hawk moths feed on grapevines. The elm-tree hawk moth is Ceratomia Amyntor. 

HAWM:  See Haulm, straw. 

HAWM:  To lounge; to loiter. [Prov. Eng.] Tennyson. 

HAWSER:  A large rope made of three strands each containing many yarns.  Note: Three hawsers twisted together make a cable; but it nautical usage the distinction between cable and hawser is often one of size rather than of manufacture. Hawser iron, a calking iron.  HAWSER-LAID Haws"er-laid`, a.  Made in the manner of a hawser. Cf. Cable-laid, and see Illust. of Cordage. 

HAWTHORN:  A thorny shrub or tree (the Cratægus oxyacantha), having deeply lobed, shining leaves, small, roselike, fragrant flowers, and a fruit called haw. It is much used in Europe for hedges, and for standards in gardens. The American hawthorn is Cratægus cordata, which has the leaves but little lobed. Gives not the hawthorn bush a sweeter shade To shepherds Shak. 

HAY:  To lay snares for rabbits. Huloet. 

HAY:  Grass cut and cured for fodder. Make hay while the sun shines. Camden. Hay may be dried too much as well as too little. C. L. Flint. Hay cap, a canvas covering for a haycock.  -- Hay fever (Med.), nasal catarrh accompanied with fever, and sometimes with paroxysms of dyspnoea, to which some persons are subject in the spring and summer seasons. It has been attributed to the effluvium from hay, and to the pollen of certain plants. It is also called hay asthma, hay cold, and rose fever.  -- Hay knife, a sharp instrument used in cutting hay out of a stack or mow.  -- Hay press, a press for baling loose hay.  -- Hay tea, the juice of hay extracted by boiling, used as food for cattle, etc.  -- Hay tedder, a machine for spreading and turning newmown hay. See Tedder. 

HAY:  To cut and cure grass for hay. 

HAYBOTE:  An allowance of wood to a tenant for repairing his hedges or fences; hedgebote. See Bote. Blackstone. 

HAYCOCK:  A conical pile or hear of hay in the field. The tanned haycock in the mead. Milton.  HAY-CUTTER Hay"-cut`ter, n.  A machine in which hay is chopped short, as fodder for cattle. 

HAYFIELD:  A field where grass for hay has been cut; a meadow. Cowper. 

HAYFORK:  A fork for pitching and tedding hay. Horse hayfork, a contrivance for unloading hay from the cart and depositing it in the loft, or on a mow, by horse power. 

HAYLOFT:  A loft or scaffold for hay. 

HAYMAKING:  The operation or work of cutting grass and curing it for hay. 

HAYRACK:  A frame mounted on the running gear of a wagon, and used in hauling hay, straw, sheaves, etc.; -- called also hay rigging. 

HAYRAKE:  A rake for collecting hay; especially, a large rake drawn by a horse or horses. 

HAYRICK:  A heap or pile of hay, usually covered with thatch for preservation in the open air. 

HAYSTACK:  A stack or conical pile of hay in the open air. 

HAYSTALK:  A stalk of hay. 

HAYTHORN:  Hawthorn. R. Scot. 

HAYTIAN:  Of pertaining to Hayti.  -- n.  A native of Hayti. [Written also Haitian.] 

HAYWARD:  An officer who is appointed to guard hedges, and to keep cattle from breaking or cropping them, and whose further duty it is to impound animals found running at large. 

HAZARD:  Holing a ball, whether the object ball (winning hazard) or the player's ball (losing hazard).  5. Anything that is hazarded or risked, as the stakes in gaming. "Your latter hazard." Shak. Hazard table, a a table on which hazard is played, or any game of chance for stakes.  -- To ru, to take the chance or risk.  Syn.  -- Danger; risk; chance. See Danger. 

HAZARD:  To try the chance; to encounter risk or danger. Shak. 

HAZARDIZE:  A hazardous attempt or situation; hazard. [Obs.] Herself had run into that hazardize. Spenser. 

HAZARDOUS:  Exposed to hazard; dangerous; risky. To enterprise so hazardous and high! Milton.  Syn.  -- Perilous; dangerous; bold; daring; adventurous; venturesome; precarious; uncertain.  -- Haz"ard*ous*ly, adv.  -- Haz"ard*ous*ness, n. 

HAZE:  Light vapor or smoke in the air which more or less impedes vision, with little or no dampness; a lack of transparency in the air; hence, figuratively, obscurity; dimness. O'er the sky The silvery haze of summer drawn. Tennyson. Above the world's uncertain haze. Keble. 

HAZE:  To be hazy, or tick with haze. Ray. 

HAZEL:  A shrub or small tree of the genus Corylus, as the C. avellana, bearing a nut containing a kernel of a mild, farinaceous taste; the filbert. The American species are C. Americana, which produces the common hazelnut, and C. rostrata. See Filbert. Gray.  2. A miner's name for freestone. Raymond. Hazel earth, soil suitable for the hazel; a fertile loam.  -- Hazel grouse (Zoöl.), a European grouse (Bonasa betulina), allied to the American ruffed grouse.  -- Hazel hoe, a kind of grub hoe.  -- Witch hazel. See Witch-hazel, and Hamamelis. 

HAZELESS:  Destitute of haze. Tyndall. 

HAZELLY:  Of the color of the hazelnut; of a light brown. Mortimer. 

HAZELNUT:  The nut of the hazel. Shak. 

HAZELWORT:  The asarabacca. 

HAZILY:  In a hazy manner; mistily; obscurely; confusedly. 

HAZINESS:  The quality or state of being hazy. 

HAZLE:  To make dry; to dry. [Obs.] 

HE:  A variant of -hood. 

HEAD:  Tiles laid at the eaves of a house. Knight.  Note: Head is often used adjectively or in self-explaining combinations; as, head gear or headgear, head rest. Cf. Head, a. A buck of the first head, a male fallow deer in its fifth year, when it attains its complete set of antlers. Shak.  -- By the head. (Naut.) See under By.  -- Elevator head, Feed head, etc. See under Elevator, Feed, etc.  -- From head to foot, through the whole length of a man; completely; throughout. "Arm me, audacity, from head to foot." Shak.  -- Head and ears, with the whole person; deeply; completely; as, he was head and ears in debt or in trouble. [Colloq.] -- Head fast. (Naut.) See 5th Fast.  -- Head kidney (Anat.), the most anterior of the three pairs of embryonic renal organs developed in most vertebrates -- Head money, a capitation tax; a poll tax. Milton.  -- Head pence, a poll tax. [Obs.] -- Head sea, a sea that meets the head of a vessel or rolls against her course.  -- Head and shoulders. (a) By force; violently; as, to drag one, head and shoulders. "They bring in every figure of speech, head and shoulders." Felton. (b) By the height of the head and shoulders; hence, by a great degree or space; by far; much; as, he is head and shoulders above them.  -- Head or tail, this side or that side; this thing or that; -- a phrase used in throwing a coin to decide a choice, guestion, or stake, head being the side of the coin bearing the effigy or principal figure (or, in case there is no head or face on either side, that side which has the date on it), and tail the other side.  -- Neither head nor tail, neither beginning nor end; neither this thing nor that; nothing distinct or definite; -- a phrase used in speaking of what is indefinite or confused; as, they made neither head nor tail of the matter. [Colloq.] -- Head wind, a wind that blows in a direction opposite the vessel's course.  -- Out one's own head, according to one's own idea; without advice or coöperation of another. Over the head of, beyond the comprehension of. M. Arnold.  -- To be out of one's head, to be temporarily insane.  -- To come or draw to a head. See under Come, Draw.  -- To give (one) the head, or To give head, to let go, or to give up, control; to free from restraint; to give license. "He gave his able horse the head." Shak. "He has so long given his unruly passions their head." South.  -- To his head, before his face. "An uncivil answer from a son to a father, from an obliged person to a benefactor, is a greater indecency than if an enemy should storm his house or revile him to his head." Jer. Taylor.  -- To lay heads together, to consult; to conspire.  -- To lose one's head, to lose presence of mind.  -- To make head, or To make head against, to resist with success; to advance.  -- To show one's head, to appear. Shak.  -- To turn head, to turn the face or front. "The ravishers turn head, the fight renews." Dryden. 

HEAD:  Principal; chief; leading; first; as, the head master of a school; the head man of a tribe; a head chorister; a head cook. 

HEADACHE:  Pain in the head; ceph "Headaches and shivering fits." Macaulay. 

HEADACHY:  Afflicted with headache. [Colloq.] 

HEADBOARD:  A board or boarding which marks or forms the head of anything; as, the headboard of a bed; the headboard of a grave.  HEADBOROUGH; HEADBORROW Head"bor*ough, Head"bor*row n.  1. The chief of a frankpledge, tithing, or decennary, consisting of ten families; -- called also borsholder, boroughhead, boroughholder, and sometimes tithingman. See Borsholder. [Eng.] Blackstone.  2. (Modern Law)  A petty constable. [Eng.]  HEAD-CHEESE Head"-cheese, n.  A dish made of portions of the head, or head and feet, of swine, cut up fine, seasoned, and pressed into a cheeselike mass. 

HEADER:  With the head foremost. 

HEADFISH:  The sunfish (Mola).  HEAD GEAR; HEADGEAR Head" gear`, or; Head"gear` (, n.  1. Headdress.  2. Apparatus above ground at the mouth of a mine or deep well.  HEAD-HUNTER Head"-hunt`er, n.  A member of any tribe or race of savages who have the custom of decapitating human beings and preserving their heads as trophies. The Dyaks of Borneo are the most noted head-hunters.  -- Head"-hunt`ing, n. 

HEADILY:  In a heady or rash manner; hastily; rashly; obstinately. 

HEADINESS:  The quality of being heady. 

HEADING:  A gallery, drift, or adit in a mine; also, the end of a drift or gallery; the vein above a drift.  5. (sewing)  The extension of a line ruffling above the line of stitch.  6. (Masonry)  That end of a stone or brick which is presented outward. Knight. Heading course (Arch.), a course consisting only of headers. See Header, n. 3 (a).  -- Heading joint. (a) (Carp.) A joint, as of two or more boards, etc., at right angles to the grain of the wood. (b) (Masonry) A joint between two roussoirs in the same course. 

HEADLIGHT:  A light, with a powerful reflector, placed at the head of a locomotive, or in front of it, to throw light on the track at night, or in going through a dark tunnel. 

HEADLINE:  The line at the head or top of a page.  2. (Naut.)  See Headrope. 

HEADLONG:  Lugged or dragged by the head. [R.] "The head-lugged bear." Shak. 

HEADMAN:  A head or leading man, especially of a village community.  HEADMOLD SHOT; HEADMOULD SHOT Head"mold" shot", Head"mould` shot". (Med.)  An old name for the condition of the skull, in which the bones ride, or are shot, over each other at the sutures. Dunglison. 

HEADMOST:  Most advanced; most forward; as, the headmost ship in a fleet. 

HEADNOTE:  A note at the head of a page or chapter; in law reports, an abstract of a case, showing the principles involved and the opinion of the court. 

HEADPAN:  The brainpan. [Obs.] 

HEADQUARTERS:  The quarters or place of residence of any chief officer, as the general in command of an army, or the head of a police force; the place from which orders or instructions are issued; hence, the center of authority or order. The brain, which is the headquarters, or office, of intelligence. Collier. 

HEADRACE:  See Race, a water course. 

HEADROOM:  See Headway, 2. 

HEADROPE:  That part of a boltrope which is sewed to the upper edge or head of a sail. 

HEADSAIL:  Any sail set forward of the foremast. Totten. 

HEADSHAKE:  A significant shake of the head, commonly as a signal of denial. Shak. 

HEADSHIP:  Authority or dignity; chief place. 

HEADSMAN:  An executioner who cuts off heads. Dryden. 

HEADSPRING:  Fountain; source. The headspring of our belief. Stapleton. 

HEADSTALL:  That part of a bridle or halter which encompasses the head. Shak. 

HEADSTOCK:  A part (usually separate from the bed or frame) for supporting some of the principal working parts of a machine; as: (a) The part of a lathe that holds the revolving spindle and its attachments; -- also called poppet head, the opposite corresponding part being called a tailstock. (b) The part of a planing machine that supports the cutter, etc. 

HEADSTRONGNESS:  Obstinacy. [R.] Gayton. 

HEADWATER:  The source and upper part of a stream; -- commonly used in the plural; as, the headwaters of the Missouri. 

HEADWAY:  Clear space under an arch, girder, and the like, sufficient to allow of easy passing underneath. 

HEADWORK:  Mental labor. 

HEAL:  To cover, as a roof, with tiles, slate, lead, or the like. [Obs.] 

HEAL:  To grow sound; to return to a sound state; as, the limb heals, or the wound heals; -- sometimes with up or over; as, it will heal up, or over. Those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves. Shak. 

HEAL:  Health. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEALABLE:  Capable of being healed. 

HEALALL:  A common herb of the Mint family (Brunela vulgaris), destitute of active properties, but anciently thought a panacea. 

HEALD:  A heddle. Ure. 

HEALER:  One who, or that which, heals. 

HEALFUL:  Tending or serving to heal; healing. [Obs.] Ecclus. xv. 3. 

HEALING:  Tending to cure; soothing; mollifying; as, the healing art; a healing salve; healing words. Here healing dews and balms abound. Keble. 

HEALINGLY:  So as to heal or cure. 

HEALTHFULLY:  In health; wholesomely. 

HEALTHFULNESS:  The state of being healthful. 

HEALTHILY:  In a healthy manner. 

HEALTHINESS:  The state of being healthy or healthful; freedom from disease. 

HEALTHLESSNESS:  The state of being health 

HEALTHSOME:  Wholesome; salubrious. [R.] "Healthsome air." Shak. 

HEALTHWARD:  In the direction of health; as, a healthward tendency. 

HEAM:  The afterbirth or secundines of a beast. 

HEAPER:  One who heaps, piles, or amasses. 

HEAPY:  Lying in heaps. Gay. 

HEARD:  imp. & p. p. of Hear. 

HEARER:  One who hears; an auditor. 

HEARKENER:  One who hearkens; a listener. 

HEARSAL:  Rehearsal. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HEARSAY:  Report; rumor; fame; common talk; something heard from another. Much of the obloquy that has so long rested on the memory of our great national poet originated in frivolous hearsays of his life and conversation. Prof. Wilson. Hearsay evidence (Law), that species of testimony which consists in a a narration by one person of matters told him by another. It is, with a few exceptions, inadmissible as testimony. Abbott. 

HEARSE:  A hind in the year of its age. [Eng.] Wright. 

HEARSE:  To inclose in a hearse; to entomb. [Obs.] "Would she were hearsed at my foot." Shak. 

HEARSECLOTH:  A cloth for covering a coffin when on a bier; a pall. Bp. Sanderson. 

HEARSELIKE:  Suitable to a funeral. If you listen to David's harp, you shall hear as many hearselike airs as carols. Bacon. 

HEART:  A hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood. Why does my blood thus muster to my heart! Shak.  Note: In adult mammals and birds, the heart is four-chambered, the right auricle and ventricle being completely separated from the left auricle and ventricle; and the blood flows from the systematic veins to the right auricle, thence to the right ventricle, from which it is forced to the lungs, then returned to the left auricle, thence passes to the left ventricle, from which it is driven into the systematic arteries. See Illust. under Aorta. In fishes there are but one auricle and one ventricle, the blood being pumped from the ventricle through the gills to the system, and thence returned to the auricle. In most amphibians and reptiles, the separation of the auricles is partial or complete, and in reptiles the ventricles also are separated more or less completely. The so-called lymph hearts, found in many amphibians, reptiles, and birds, are contractile sacs, which pump the lymph into the veins.  2. The seat of the affections or sensibilities, collectively or separately, as love, hate, joy, grief, courage, and the like; rarely, the seat of the understanding or will; -- usually in a good sense, when no epithet is expressed; the better or lovelier part of our nature; the spring of all our actions and purposes; the seat of moral life and character; the moral affections and character itself; the individual disposition and character; as, a good, tender, loving, bad, hard, or selfish heart. Hearts are dust, hearts' loves remain. Emerson.  3. The nearest the middle or center; the part most hidden and within; the inmost or most essential part of any body or system; the source of life and motion in any organization; the chief or vital portion; the center of activity, or of energetic or efficient action; as, the heart of a country, of a tree, etc. Exploits done in the heart of France. Shak. Peace subsisting at the heart Of endless agitation. Wordsworth.  4. Courage; courageous purpose; spirit. Eve, recovering heart, replied. Milton. The expelled nations take heart, and when they fly from one country invade another. Sir W. Temple.  5. Vigorous and efficient activity; power of fertile production; condition of the soil, whether good or bad. That the spent earth may gather heart again. Dryden.  6. That which resembles a heart in shape; especially, a roundish or oval figure or object having an obtuse point at one end, and at the other a corresponding indentation, -- used as a symbol or representative of the heart.  7. One of a series of playing cards, distinguished by the figure or figures of a heart; as, hearts are trumps.  8. Vital part; secret meaning; real intention. And then show you the heart of my message. Shak.  9. A term of affectionate or kindly and familiar address. "I speak to thee, my heart." Shak.  Note: Heart is used in many compounds, the most of which need no special explanation; as, heart-appalling, heart-breaking, heart- cheering, heart-chilled, heart-expanding, heart-free, heart-hardened, heart-heavy, heart-purifying, heart-searching, heart-sickening, heart-sinking, heart-stirring, heart-touching, heart-wearing, heart- whole, heart-wounding, heart-wringing, etc. After one's own heart, conforming with one's inmost approval and desire; as, a friend after my own heart. The Lord hath sought him a man after his own heart. 1 Sam. xiii. 14. -- At heart, in the inmost character or disposition; at bottom; really; as, he is at heart a good man.  -- By heart, in the closest or most thorough manner; as, to know or learn by heart. "Composing songs, for fools to get by heart" (that is, to commit to memory, or to learn thoroughly). Pope.  -- For my heart, for my life; if my life were at stake. [Obs.] "I could not get him for my heart to do it." Shak.  -- Heart bond (Masonry), a bond in which no header stone stretches across the wall, but two headers meet in the middle, and their joint is covered by another stone laid header fashion. Knight.  -- Heart and hand, with enthusiastic coöperation.  -- Heart hardness, hardness of heart; callousness of feeling; moral insensibility. Shak.  -- Heart heaviness, depression of spirits. Shak.  -- Heart point (Her.), the fess point. See Escutcheon.  -- Heart rising, a rising of the heart, as in opposition.  -- Heart shell (Zoöl.), any marine, bivalve shell of the genus Cardium and allied genera, having a heart-shaped shell; esp., the European Isocardia cor; -- called also heart cockle.  -- Heart sickness, extreme depression of spirits.  -- Heart and soul, with the utmost earnestness.  -- Heart urchin (Zoöl.), any heartshaped, spatangoid sea urchin. See Spatangoid.  -- Heart wheel, a form of cam, shaped like a heart. See Cam.  -- In good heart, in good courage; in good hope.  -- Out of heart, discouraged.  -- Poor heart, an exclamation of pity.  -- To break the heart of. (a) To bring to despair or hopeless grief; to cause to be utterly cast down by sorrow. (b) To bring almost to completion; to finish very nearly; -- said of anything undertaken; as, he has broken the heart of the task.  -- To find in the heart, to be willing or disposed. "I could find in my heart to ask your pardon." Sir P. Sidney.  -- To have at heart, to desire (anything) earnestly.  -- To have in the heart, to purpose; to design or intend to do.  -- To have the heart in the mouth, to be much frightened.  -- To lose heart, to become discouraged.  -- To lose one's heart, to fall in love.  -- To set the heart at rest, to put one's self at ease.  -- To set the heart upon, to fix the desires on; to long for earnestly; to be very fond of.  -- To take heart of grace, to take courage.  -- To take to heart, to grieve over.  -- To wear one's heart upon one's sleeve, to expose one's feelings or intentions; to be frank or impulsive.  -- With all one's whole heart, very earnestly; fully; completely; devotedly. 

HEART:  To give heart to; to hearten; to encourage; to inspirit. [Obs.] My cause is hearted; thine hath no less reason. Shak. 

HEART:  To form a compact center or heart; as, a hearting cabbage. 

HEARTACHE:  Sorrow; anguish of mind; mental pang. Shak. 

HEARTBREAK:  Crushing sorrow or grief; a yielding to such grief. Shak. 

HEARTBREAKING:  Causing overpowering sorrow. 

HEARTBROKEN:  Overcome by crushing sorrow; deeply grieved. 

HEARTBURN:  An uneasy, burning sensation in the stomach, often attended with an inclination to vomit. It is sometimes idiopathic, but is often a symptom of often complaints. 

HEARTBURNED:  Having heartburn. Shak. 

HEARTBURNING:  Causing discontent. 

HEARTBURNING:  Same as Heartburn.  2. Discontent; secret enmity. Swift. The transaction did not fail to leave heartburnings. Palfrey. 

HEARTDEAR:  Sincerely beloved. [R.] Shak. 

HEARTDEEP:  Rooted in the heart. Herbert.  HEART-EATING Heart"-eat`ing, a.  Preying on the heart. 

HEARTEDNESS:  Earnestness; sincerity; heartiness. [R.] Clarendon.  Note: See also the Note under Hearted. The analysis of the compounds gives hard-hearted + -ness, rather than hard + heartedness, etc. 

HEARTENER:  One who, or that which, heartens, animates, or stirs up. W. Browne. 

HEARTFELT:  Hearty; sincere. 

HEARTGRIEF:  Heartache; sorrow. Milton. 

HEARTH:  The floor of a furnace, on which the material to be heated lies, or the lowest part of a melting furnace, into which the melted material settles. Hearth ends (Metal.), fragments of lead ore ejected from the furnace by the blast.  -- Hearth money, Hearth penny Etym: [AS. heoredhpening], a tax formerly laid in England on hearths, each hearth (in all houses paying the church and poor rates) being taxed at two shillings; -- called also chimney money, etc. He had been importuned by the common people to relieve them from the . . . burden of the hearth money. Macaulay. 

HEARTHSTONE:  Stone forming the hearth; hence, the fireside; home. Chords of memory, stretching from every battlefield and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone. A. Lincoln. 

HEARTINESS:  The quality of being hearty; as, the heartiness of a greeting. 

HEARTLET:  A little heart. 

HEARTLINGS:  An exclamation used in addressing a familiar acquaintance. [Obs.] Shak. 

HEARTPEA:  Same as Heartseed. 

HEARTQUAKE:  Trembling of the heart; trepidation; fear. In many an hour of danger and heartquake. Hawthorne. 

HEARTRENDING:  Causing intense grief; overpowering with anguish; very distressing.  HEART-ROBBING Heart"-rob`bing, a.  1. Depriving of thought; ecstatic. "Heart-robbing gladness." Spenser.  2. Stealing the heart or affections; winning.  HEART'S-EASE Heart's"-ease`, n.  1. Ease of heart; peace or tranquillity of mind or feeling. Shak.  2. (Bot.)  A species of violet (Viola tricolor); -- called also pansy. 

HEARTSEED:  A climbing plant of the genus Cardiospermum, having round seeds which are marked with a spot like a heart. Loudon. 

HEARTSHAPED:  Having the shape of a heart; cordate. 

HEARTSICK:  Sick at heart; extremely depressed in spirits; very despondent. 

HEARTSOME:  Merry; cheerful; lively. [Scot.]  HEART-SPOON Heart"-spoon`, n.  A part of the breastbone. [Obs.] He feeleth through the herte-spon the pricke. Chaucer. 

HEARTSTRICKEN:  Shocked; dismayed. 

HEARTSTRIKE:  To affect at heart; to shock. [R.] "The seek to heartstrike us." B. Jonson. 

HEARTSTRING:  A nerve or tendon, supposed to brace and sustain the heart. Shak. Sobbing, as if a hearstring broke. Moore. 

HEARTSWELLING:  Rankling in, or swelling, the heart. "Heartswelling hate." Spenser.  HEART-WHOLE Heart"-whole`, a. Etym: [See Whole.]  1. Having the heart or affections free; not in love. Shak.  2. With unbroken courage; undismayed.  3. Of a single and sincere heart. If he keeps heart-whole towards his Master. Bunyan. 

HEARTWOOD:  The hard, central part of the trunk of a tree, consisting of the old and matured wood, and usually differing in color from the outer layers. It is technically known as duramen, and distinguished from the softer sapwood or alburnum.  HEART-WOUNDED Heart"-wound`ed, a.  Wounded to the heart with love or grief. Pope. 

HEARTY:  Comrade; boon companion; good fellow; -- a term of familiar address and fellowship among sailors. Dickens. 

HEARTYHALE:  Good for the heart. [Obs.] 

HEAT:  Heated; as, the iron though heat red-hot. [Obs. or Archaic.] Shak. 

HEATHCLAD:  Clad or crowned with heath. 

HEATHENESSE:  Heathendom. [Obs.] Chaucer. Sir W. Scott. 

HEATHENISHLY:  In a heathenish manner. 

HEATHENISHNESS:  The state or quality of being heathenish. "The . . . heathenishness and profaneness of most playbooks." Prynne. 

HEATHENIZE:  To render heathen or heathenish. Firmin. 

HEATHENNESS:  State of being heathen or like the heathen. 

HEATHER:  Heath. [Scot.] Gorse and grass And heather, where his footsteps pass, The brighter seem. Longfellow. Heather bell (Bot.), one of the pretty subglobose flowers of two European kinds of heather (Erica Tetralix, and E. cinerea). 

HEATHERY:  Heathy; abounding in heather; of the nature of heath. 

HEATHY:  Full of heath; abounding with heath; as, heathy land; heathy hills. Sir W. Scott. 

HEATING:  That heats or imparts heat; promoting warmth or heat; exciting action; stimulating; as, heating medicines or applications. Heating surface (Steam Boilers), the aggregate surface exposed to fire or to the heated products of combustion, esp. of all the plates or sheets that are exposed to water on their opposite surfaces; -- called also fire surface. 

HEATINGLY:  In a heating manner; so as to make or become hot or heated. 

HEATLESS:  Destitute of heat; cold. Beau. & Fl. 

HEAVE:  A horizontal dislocation in a metallic lode, taking place at an intersection with another lode. 

HEAVEN:  To place in happiness or bliss, as if in heaven; to beatify. [R.] We are happy as the bird whose nest Is heavened in the hush of purple hills. G. Massey. 

HEAVENIZE:  To render like heaven or fit for heaven. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

HEAVENLINESS:  The state or quality of being heavenly. Sir J. Davies. 

HEAVENLY:  Having the thoughts and affections placed on, or suitable for, heaven and heavenly objects; devout; godly; pious. Milner.  -- Heav"en*ly*mind`ed*ness, n. 

HEAVENWARD:  Toward heaven.  HEAVE OFFERING Heave" of`fer*ing. (Jewish Antiq.)  An offering or oblation heaved up or elevated before the altar, as the shoulder of the peace offering. See Wave offering. Ex. xxix. 27. 

HEAVER:  A bar used as a lever. Totten. 

HEAVES:  A disease of horses, characterized by difficult breathing, with heaving of the flank, wheezing, flatulency, and a peculiar cough; broken wind. 

HEAVILY:  subject to much traffic or travel; as, the region's most heavily traveled highways. Syn. -- heavily traveled. [WordNet 1.5] 

HEAVINESS:  The state or quality of being heavy in its various senses; weight; sadness; sluggishness; oppression; thickness. 

HEAVING:  A lifting or rising; a swell; a panting or deep sighing. Addison. Shak. 

HEAVISOME:  Heavy; dull. [Prov.] 

HEAVY:  Having the heaves. 

HEAVY:  , adv. Heavily; -- sometimes used in composition; as, heavy- laden. 

HEAVY:  To make heavy. [Obs.] Wyclif.  HEAVY-ARMED Heav"y-armed`, a. (Mil.)  Wearing heavy or complete armor; carrying heavy arms.  HEAVY-HADED Heav"y-had"ed, a.  Clumsy; awkward.  HEAVY-HEADED Heav"y-head"ed, a.  Dull; stupid. "Gross heavy-headed fellows." Beau. & Fl.  HEAVY SPAR Heav"y spar`. (Min.)  Native barium sulphate or barite, -- so called because of its high specific gravity as compared with other non-metallic minerals. 

HEBDOMAD:  A week; a period of seven days. [R.] Sir T. Browne.  HEBDOMADAL; HEBDOMADARY Heb*dom"a*dal, Heb*dom"a*da*ry, a. Etym: [L. hebdomadalis, LL. hebdomadarius: cf. F. hebdomadaire.]  Consisting of seven days, or occurring at intervals of seven days; weekly. 

HEBDOMADALLY:  In periods of seven days; weekly. Lowell. 

HEBDOMADARY:  A member of a chapter or convent, whose week it is to officiate in the choir, and perform other services, which, on extraordinary occasions, are performed by the superiors. 

HEBDOMATICAL:  Weekly; hebdomadal. [Obs.] 

HEBE:  The goddess of youth, daughter of Jupiter and Juno. She was believed to have the power of restoring youth and beauty to those who had lost them.  2. (Zoöl.)  An African ape; the hamadryas. 

HEBEN:  Ebony. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HEBENON:  See Henbane. [Obs.] Shak. 

HEBETATE:  To render obtuse; to dull; to blunt; to stupefy; as, to hebetate the intellectual faculties. Southey 

HEBETATE:  Having a dull or blunt and soft point. Gray. 

HEBETE:  Dull; stupid. [Obs.] 

HEBETUDE:  Dullness; stupidity. Harvey. 

HEBRAIC:  Of or pertaining to the Hebrews, or to the language of the Hebrews. 

HEBRAICALLY:  After the manner of the Hebrews or of the Hebrew language. 

HEBRAIST:  One versed in the Hebrew language and learning. 

HEBRAISTIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the Hebrew language or idiom. 

HEBRAISTICALLY:  In a Hebraistic sense or form. Which is Hebraistically used in the New Testament. Kitto. 

HEBRAIZE:  To convert into the Hebrew idiom; to make Hebrew or Hebraistic. J. R. Smith. 

HEBRAIZE:  To speak Hebrew, or to conform to the Hebrew idiom, or to Hebrew customs. 

HEBREW:  Of or pertaining to the Hebrews; as, the Hebrew language or rites.  HEBREW CALENDAR Hebrew calendar.  = Jewish calendar. 

HEBREWESS:  An Israelitish woman. 

HEBRICIAN:  A Hebraist. [R.]  HEBRIDEAN; HEBRIDIAN He*brid"e*an, He*brid"i*an, a.  Of or pertaining to the islands called Hebrides, west of Scotland.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of the Hebrides. 

HECATOMB:  A sacrifice of a hundred oxen or cattle at the same time; hence, the sacrifice or slaughter of any large number of victims. Slaughtered hecatombs around them bleed. Addison. More than a human hecatomb. Byron. 

HECATOMPEDON:  A name given to the old Parthenon at Athens, because measuring 100 Greek feet, probably in the width across the stylobate. 

HECDECANE:  A white, semisolid, spermaceti-like hydrocarbon, C16H34, of the paraffin series, found dissolved as an important ingredient of kerosene, and so called because each molecule has sixteen atoms of carbon; -- called also hexadecane. 

HECK:  An apparatus for separating the threads of warps into sets, as they are wound upon the reel from the bobbins, in a warping machine.  6. A bend or winding of a stream. [Prov. Eng.] Half heck, the lower half of a door.  -- Heck board, the loose board at the bottom or back of a cart.  -- Heck box or frame, that which carries the heck in warping. 

HECKIMAL:  The European blue titmouse (Parus coeruleus). [Written also heckimel, hackeymal, hackmall, hagmall, and hickmall.] 

HECKLE:  Same as Hackle. 

HECTARE:  A measure of area, or superficies, containing a hundred ares, or 10,000 square meters, and equivalent to 2.471 acres. 

HECTIC:  Hectic fever.  2. A hectic flush. It is no living hue, but a strange hectic. Byron. 

HECTOCOTYLIZED:  Changed into a hectocotylus; having a hectocotylis. 

HECTOCOTYLUS:  One of the arms of the male of most kinds of cephalopods, which is specially modified in various ways to effect the fertilization of the eggs. In a special sense, the greatly modified arm of Argonauta and allied genera, which, after receiving the spermatophores, becomes detached from the male, and attaches itself to the female for reproductive purposes. 

HECTOGRAM:  A measure of weight, containing a hundred grams, or about 3.527 ounces avoirdupois. 

HECTOGRAMME:  The same as Hectogram. 

HECTOGRAPH:  A contrivance for multiple copying, by means of a surface of gelatin softened with glycerin. [Written also hectograph.]  HECTOLITER; HECTOLITRE Hec"to*li`ter, Hec"to*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. hectolitre, fr. Gr. litre a liter.]  A measure of liquids, containing a hundred liters; equal to a tenth of a cubic meter, nearly 26  HECTOMETER; HECTOMETRE Hec"to*me`ter, Hec"to*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. hectomètre, fr. Gr. mètre a meter.]  A measure of length, equal to a hundred meters. It is equivalent to 328.09 feet. 

HECTOR:  A bully; a blustering, turbulent, insolent, fellow; one who vexes or provokes. 

HECTOR:  To treat with insolence; to threaten; to bully; hence, to torment by words; to tease; to taunt; to worry or irritate by bullying. Dryden. 

HECTOR:  To play the bully; to bluster; to be turbulent or insolent. Swift. 

HECTORISM:  The disposition or the practice of a hector; a bullying. [R.] 

HECTORLY:  Resembling a hector; blustering; insolent; taunting. "Hectorly, ruffianlike swaggering or huffing." Barrow. 

HECTOSTERE:  A measure of solidity, containing one hundred cubic meters, and equivalent to 3531.66 English or 3531.05 United States cubic feet. 

HEDDLE:  One of the sets of parallel doubled threads which, with mounting, compose the harness employed to guide the warp threads to the lathe or batten in a loom. 

HEDDLE:  To draw (the warp thread) through the heddle-eyes, in weaving.  HEDDLE-EYE Hed"dle-eye`, n. (Weaving)  The eye or loop formed in each heddle to receive a warp thread. 

HEDDLING:  The act of drawing the warp threads through the heddle-eyes of a weaver's harness; the harness itself. Knight. 

HEDERACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, ivy. 

HEDERAL:  Of or pertaining to ivy. 

HEDERIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the ivy (Hedera); as, hederic acid, an acid of the acetylene series. 

HEDERIFEROUS:  Producing ivy; ivy-bearing. 

HEDEROSE:  Pertaining to, or of, ivy; full of ivy. 

HEDGE:  A thicket of bushes, usually thorn bushes; especially, such a thicket planted as a fence between any two portions of land; and also any sort of shrubbery, as evergreens, planted in a line or as a fence; particularly, such a thicket planted round a field to fence it, or in rows to separate the parts of a garden. The roughest berry on the rudest hedge. Shak. Through the verdant maze Of sweetbrier hedges I pursue my walk. Thomson.  Note: Hedge, when used adjectively or in composition, often means rustic, outlandish, illiterate, poor, or mean; as, hedge priest; hedgeborn, etc. Hedge bells, Hedge bindweed (Bot.), a climbing plant related to the morning-glory (Convolvulus sepium).  -- Hedge bill, a long-handled billhook.  -- Hedge garlic (Bot.), a plant of the genus Alliaria. See Garlic mustard, under Garlic.  -- Hedge hyssop (Bot.), a bitter herb of the genus Gratiola, the leaves of which are emetic and purgative.  -- Hedge marriage, a secret or clandestine marriage, especially one performed by a hedge priest. [Eng.] -- Hedge mustard (Bot.), a plant of the genus Sisymbrium, belonging to the Mustard family.  -- Hedge nettle (Bot.), an herb, or under shrub, of the genus Stachys, belonging to the Mint family. It has a nettlelike appearance, though quite harmless.  -- Hedge note. (a) The note of a hedge bird. (b) Low, contemptible writing. [Obs.] Dryden.  -- Hedge priest, a poor, illiterate priest. Shak.  -- Hedge school, an open-air school in the shelter of a hedge, in Ireland; a school for rustics.  -- Hedge sparrow (Zoöl.), a European warbler (Accentor modularis) which frequents hedges. Its color is reddish brown, and ash; the wing coverts are tipped with white. Called also chanter, hedge warbler, dunnock, and doney.  -- Hedge writer, an insignificant writer, or a writer of low, scurrilous stuff. [Obs.] Swift.  -- To breast up a hedge. See under Breast.  -- To hang in the hedge, to be at a standstill. "While the business of money hangs in the hedge." Pepys. 

HEDGE:  To reduce the risk of a wager by making a bet against the side or chance one has bet on.  3. To use reservations and qualifications in one's speech so as to avoid committing one's self to anything definite. The Heroic Stanzas read much more like an elaborate attempt to hedge between the parties than . . . to gain favor from the Roundheads. Saintsbury. 

HEDGEBORN:  Born under a hedge; of low birth. Shak. 

HEDGEBOTE:  Same as Haybote. 

HEDGEHOG:  A small European insectivore (Erinaceus Europæus), and other allied species of Asia and Africa, having the hair on the upper part of its body mixed with prickles or spines. It is able to roll itself into a ball so as to present the spines outwardly in every direction. It is nocturnal in its habits, feeding chiefly upon insects.  2. (Zoöl.)  The Canadian porcupine.[U.S]  3. (Bot.)  A species of Medicago (M. intertexta), the pods of which are armed with short spines; -- popularly so called. Loudon.  4. A form of dredging machine. Knight. Hedgehog caterpillar (Zoöl.), the hairy larvæ of several species of bombycid moths, as of the Isabella moth. It curls up like a hedgehog when disturbed. See Woolly bear, and Isabella moth.  -- Hedgehog fish (Zoöl.), any spinose plectognath fish, esp. of the genus Diodon; the porcupine fish.  -- Hedgehog grass (Bot.), a grass with spiny involucres, growing on sandy shores; burgrass (Cenchrus tribuloides).  -- Hedgehog rat (Zoöl.), one of several West Indian rodents, allied to the porcupines, but with ratlike tails, and few quills, or only stiff bristles. The hedgehog rats belong to Capromys, Plagiodon, and allied genera.  -- Hedgehog shell (Zoöl.), any spinose, marine, univalve shell of the genus Murex.  -- Hedgehog thistle (Bot.), a plant of the Cactus family, globular in form, and covered with spines (Echinocactus).  -- Sea hedgehog. See Diodon. 

HEDGELESS:  Having no hedge. 

HEDGEPIG:  A young hedgehog. Shak. 

HEDGER:  One who makes or mends hedges; also, one who hedges, as, in betting. 

HEDGEROW:  A row of shrubs, or trees, planted for inclosure or separation of fields. By hedgerow elms and hillocks green. Milton.  HEDGING BILL Hedg"ing bill`.  A hedge bill. See under Hedge. 

HEDONICS:  That branch of moral philosophy which treats of the relation of duty to pleasure; the science of practical, positive enjoyment or pleasure. J. Grote. 

HEDONIST:  One who believes in hedonism. 

HEDONISTIC:  Same as Hedonic, 2. 

HEED:  To mind; to regard with care; to take notice of; to attend to; to observe. With pleasure Argus the musician heeds. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To notice; regard; mind. See Attend, v. t. 

HEED:  To mind; to consider. 

HEEDFUL:  Full of heed; regarding with care; cautious; circumspect; attentive; vigilant. Shak.  -- Heed"ful*ly, adv.  -- Heed"ful*ness, n. 

HEEDLESS:  Without heed or care; inattentive; careless; thoughtless; unobservant. O, negligent and heedless discipline! Shak. The heedless lover does not know Whose eyes they are that wound him so. Waller. -- Heed"less*ly, adv.  -- Heed"less*ness, n. 

HEEDY:  Heedful. [Obs.] "Heedy shepherds." Spenser.  -- Heed"i*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Heed"i*ness, n. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HEEL:  To lean or tip to one side, as a ship; as, the ship heels aport; the boat heeled over when the squall struck it. Heeling error (Naut.), a deviation of the compass caused by the heeling of an iron vessel to one side or the other. 

HEEL:  Management by the heel, especially the spurred heel; as, the horse understands the heel well.  7. (Arch.) (a) The lower end of a timber in a frame, as a post or rafter. In the United States, specif., the obtuse angle of the lower end of a rafter set sloping. (b) A cyma reversa; -- so called by workmen. Gwilt. Heel chain (Naut.), a chain passing from the bowsprit cap around the heel of the jib boom.  -- Heel plate, the butt plate of a gun.  -- Heel of a rafter. (Arch.) See Heel, n., 7.  -- Heel ring, a ring for fastening a scythe blade to the snath.  -- Neck and heels, the whole body. (Colloq.) -- To be at the heels of, to pursue closely; to follow hard: as, hungry want is at my heels. Otway.  -- To be down at the heel, to be slovenly or in a poor plight.  -- To be out at the heels, to have on stockings that are worn out; hence, to be shabby, or in a poor plight. Shak.  -- To cool the heels. See under Cool.  -- To go heels over head, to turn over so as to bring the heels uppermost; hence, to move in a inconsiderate, or rash, manner.  -- To have the heels of, to outrun.  -- To lay by the heels, to fetter; to shackle; to imprison. Shak. Addison.  -- To show the heels, to flee; to run from.  -- To take to the heels, to flee; to betake to flight.  -- To throw up another's heels, to trip him. Bunyan.  -- To tread upon one's heels, to follow closely. Shak. 

HEELBALL:  A composition of wax and lampblack, used by shoemakers for polishing, and by antiquaries in copying inscriptions. 

HEELLESS:  Without a heel. 

HEELPATH:  The bank of a canal opposite, and corresponding to, that of the towpath; berm. [U. S.]  The Cowles found convenient spiles sunk in the heelpath. The Century. 

HEELPOST:  The post to which a gate or door is hinged.  3. (Engineering)  The quoin post of a lock gate. 

HEELSPUR:  A slender bony or cartilaginous process developed from the heel bone of bats. It helps to support the wing membranes. See Illust. of Cheiropter. 

HEELTAP:  To add a piece of leather to the heel of (a shoe, boot, etc.) 

HEELTOOL:  A tool used by turners in metal, having a bend forming a heel near the cutting end. 

HEEMRAAD:  In Holland, and, until the 19th century, also in Cape Colony, a council to assist a local magistrate in the government of rural districts; hence, also, a member of such a council. 

HEEP:  The hip of the dog-rose. [Obs.] 

HEER:  A yarn measure of six hundred yards or of a spindle. See Spindle. 

HEER:  Hair. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEFT:  Same as Haft, n. [Obs.] Waller. 

HEFTY:  Moderately heavy. [Colloq. U. S.] 

HEGELIAN:  Pertaining to Hegelianism.  -- n.  A follower of Hegel.  HEGELIANISM; HEGELISM He*ge"li*an*ism, He"gel*ism, n.  The system of logic and philosophy set forth by Hegel, a German writer (1770-1831).  HEGEMONIC; HEGEMONICAL Heg`e*mon"ic, Heg`e*mon"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Hegemony.]  Leading; controlling; ruling; predominant. "Princelike and hegemonical." Fotherby. 

HEGEMONY:  Leadership; preponderant influence or authority; -- usually applied to the relation of a government or state to its neighbors or confederates. Lieber. 

HEGGE:  A hedge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEGIRA:  The flight of Mohammed from Mecca, September 13, A. D. 622 (subsequently established as the first year of the Moslem era); hence, any flight or exodus regarded as like that of Mohammed.  Note: The starting point of the Era was made to begin, not from the date of the flight, but from the first day of the Arabic year, which corresponds to July 16, A. D. 622. 

HEIFER:  A young cow.  HEIGH-HO Heigh"-ho (hi"-ho), interj.  An exclamation of surprise, joy, dejection, uneasiness, weariness, etc. Shak. 

HEIGHTENER:  One who, or that which, heightens. 

HEINOUS:  Hateful; hatefully bad; flagrant; odious; atrocious; giving great great offense; -- applied to deeds or to character. It were most heinous and accursed sacrilege. Hooker. How heinous had the fact been, how deserving Contempt! Milton.  Syn.  -- Monstrous; flagrant; flagitious; atrocious.  -- Hei"nous*ly, adv.  -- Hei"nous*ness, n. 

HEIR:  To inherit; to succeed to. [R.] One only daughter heired the royal state. Dryden. 

HEIRDOM:  The state of an heir; succession by inheritance. Burke. 

HEIRESS:  , A female heir. 

HEIRLESS:  Destitute of an heir. Shak. 

HEIRLOOM:  Any furniture, movable, or personal chattel, which by law or special custom descends to the heir along with the inheritance; any piece of personal property that has been in a family for several generations. Woe to him whose daring hand profanes The honored heirlooms of his ancestors. Moir. 

HEIRSHIP:  The state, character, or privileges of an heir; right of inheriting. Heirship movables, certain kinds of movables which the heir is entitled to take, besides the heritable estate. [Scot.] 

HEJIRA:  See Hegira.  HEKTARE; HEKTOGRAM; HEKTOLITER; HEKTOMETER Hek"tare`, Hek"to*gram, Hek"to*li`ter, and; Hek"to*me`ter, n.  Same as Hectare, Hectogram, Hectoliter, and Hectometer. 

HEKTOGRAPH:  See Hectograph. 

HELAMYS:  See Jumping hare, under Hare. 

HELCOPLASTY:  The act or process of repairing lesions made by ulcers, especially by a plastic operation. 

HELD:  imp. & p. p. of Hold. 

HELE:  Health; welfare. [Obs.] "In joy and perfyt hele." Chaucer. 

HELE:  To hide; to cover; to roof. [Obs.] Hide and hele things. Chaucer. 

HELENA:  See St. Elmo's fire, under Saint. 

HELENIN:  A neutral organic substance found in the root of the elecampane (Inula helenium), and extracted as a white crystalline or oily material, with a slightly bitter taste. 

HELIAC:  Heliacal. 

HELIACAL:  Emerging from the light of the sun, or passing into it; rising or setting at the same, or nearly the same, time as the sun. Sir T. Browne.  Note: The heliacal rising of a star is when, after being in conjunction with the sun, and invisible, it emerges from the light so as to be visible in the morning before sunrising. On the contrary, the heliacal setting of a star is when the sun approaches conjunction so near as to render the star invisible. 

HELIACALLY:  In a heliacal manner. De Quincey. 

HELIANTHIN:  An artificial, orange dyestuff, analogous to tropaolin, and like it used as an indicator in alkalimetry; -- called also methyl orange. 

HELIANTHOID:  Of or pertaining to the Helianthoidea. 

HELIANTHOIDEA:  An order of Anthozoa; the Actinaria. 

HELICAL:  Of or pertaining to, or in the form of, a helix; spiral; as, a helical staircase; a helical spring.  -- Hel"i*cal*ly, adv. 

HELICHRYSUM:  A genus of composite plants, with shining, commonly white or yellow, or sometimes reddish, radiated involucres, which are often called "everlasting flowers." 

HELICIFORM:  Having the form of a helix; spiral. 

HELICIN:  A glucoside obtained as a white crystalline substance by partial oxidation of salicin, from a willow (Salix Helix of Linnæus.) 

HELICINE:  Curled; spiral; helicoid; -- applied esp. to certain arteries of the penis. 

HELICOGRAPH:  An instrument for drawing spiral lines on a plane. 

HELICOID:  Shaped like a snail shell; pertaining to the Helicidæ, or Snail family. Helicoid parabola (Math.), the parabolic spiral. 

HELICOID:  A warped surface which may be generated by a straight line moving in such a manner that every point of the line shall have a uniform motion in the direction of another fixed straight line, and at the same time a uniform angular motion about it. 

HELICOIDAL:  Same as Helicoid.  -- Hel`i*coid"al*ly, adv. 

HELICON:  A mountain in Boeotia, in Greece, supposed by the Greeks to be the residence of Apollo and the Muses. From Helicon's harmonious springs A thousand rills their mazy progress take. Gray. 

HELICONIA:  One of numerous species of Heliconius, a genus of tropical American butterflies. The wings are usually black, marked with green, crimson, and white. 

HELICONIAN:  Like or pertaining to the butterflies of the genus Heliconius. 

HELICOTREMA:  The opening by which the two scalæ communicate at the top of the cochlea of the ear.  HELIO- He"li*o-.  A combining form from Gr. "h`lios the sun.  HELIOCENTRIC; HELIOCENTRICAL He`li*o*cen"tric, He`li*o*cen"tric"al, a. Etym: [Helio- + centric, centrical: cf. F. héliocentrique.] (Astron.)  pertaining to the sun's center, or appearing to be seen from it; having, or relating to, the sun as a center; -- opposed to geocentrical. Heliocentric parallax. See under Parallax.  -- Heliocentric place, latitude, longitude, etc. (of a heavenly body), the direction, latitude, longitude, etc., of the body as viewed from the sun. 

HELIOCHROME:  A photograph in colors. R. Hunt. 

HELIOCHROMIC:  Pertaining to, or produced by, heliochromy. 

HELIOCHROMY:  The art of producing photographs in color. 

HELIOGRAM:  A message transmitted by a heliograph. 

HELIOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to heliography or a heliograph; made by heliography. Heliographic chart. See under Chart. 

HELIOGRAPHY:  Photography. R. Hunt. 

HELIOGRAVURE:  The process of photographic engraving. 

HELIOLATER:  A worshiper of the sun. 

HELIOLATRY:  Sun worship. See Sabianism. 

HELIOLITE:  A fossil coral of the genus Heliolites, having twelve-rayed cells. It is found in the Silurian rocks. 

HELIOMETER:  An instrument devised originally for measuring the diameter of the sun; now employed for delicate measurements of the distance and relative direction of two stars too far apart to be easily measured in the field of view of an ordinary telescope.  HELIOMETRIC; HELIOMETRICAL He`li*o*met"ric, He`li*o*met"ric*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the heliometer, or to heliometry. 

HELIOMETRY:  The apart or practice of measuring the diameters of heavenly bodies, their relative distances, etc. See Heliometer. 

HELIOPORA:  An East Indian stony coral now known to belong to the Alcyonaria; -- called also blue coral. 

HELIOSCOPE:  A telescope or instrument for viewing the sun without injury to the eyes, as through colored glasses, or with mirrors which reflect but a small portion of light.  -- He`li*o*scop`ic, a. 

HELIOSTAT:  An instrument consisting of a mirror moved by clockwork, by which a sunbeam is made apparently stationary, by being steadily directed to one spot during the whole of its diurnal period; also, a geodetic heliotrope. 

HELIOTROPE:  An instrument or machine for showing when the sun arrived at the tropics and equinoctial line.  2. (Bot.)  A plant of the genus Heliotropium; -- called also turnsole and girasole. H. Peruvianum is the commonly cultivated species with fragrant flowers.  3. (Geodesy & Signal Service)  An instrument for making signals to an observer at a distance, by means of the sun's rays thrown from a mirror.  4. (Min.)  See Bloodstone (a). Heliotrope purple, a grayish purple color. 

HELIOTROPER:  The person at a geodetic station who has charge of the heliotrope. 

HELIOTROPIC:  Manifesting heliotropism; turning toward the sun. 

HELIOTROPISM:  The phenomenon of turning toward the light, seen in many leaves and flowers. 

HELIOTYPE:  A picture obtained by the process of heliotypy. 

HELIOTYPIC:  Relating to, or obtained by, heliotypy. 

HELIOTYPY:  A method of transferring pictures from photographic negatives to hardened gelatin plates from which impressions are produced on paper as by lithography. 

HELIOZOA:  An order of fresh-water rhizopods having a more or less globular form, with slender radiating pseudopodia; the sun animalcule.  HELISPHERIC; HELISPHERICAL Hel`i*spher"ic, Hel`i*spher"ic*al (, a. Etym: [Helix + spheric, spherical.]  Spiral. Helispherical line (Math.). the rhomb line in navigation. [R.] 

HELIUM:  A gaseous element found in the atmospheres of the sun and earth and in some rare minerals. 

HELIX:  A nonplane curve whose tangents are all equally inclined to a given plane. The common helix is the curve formed by the thread of the ordinary screw. It is distinguished from the spiral, all the convolutions of which are in the plane.  2. (Arch.)  A caulicule or little volute under the abacus of the Corinthian capital.  3. (Anat.)  The incurved margin or rim of the external ear. See Illust. of Ear.  4. (Zoöl.)  A genus of land snails, including a large number of species.  Note: The genus originally included nearly all shells, but is now greatly restricted. See Snail, Pulmonifera. 

HELL:  To overwhelm. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HELLANODIC:  A judge or umpire in games or combats. 

HELLBENDER:  A large North American aquatic salamander (Protonopsis horrida or Menopoma Alleghaniensis). It is very voracious and very tenacious of life. Also called alligator, and water dog. 

HELLBORN:  Born in or of hell. Shak. 

HELLBRED:  Produced in hell. Spenser. 

HELLBREWED:  Prepared in hell. Milton. 

HELLBROTH:  A composition for infernal purposes; a magical preparation. Shak.  HELL-CAT Hell"-cat `, n.  A witch; a hag. Middleton.  HELL-DIVER Hell`-div`er, n. (Zoöl.)  The dabchick. 

HELLDOOMED:  Doomed to hell. Milton. 

HELLEBORE:  A genus of perennial herbs (Helleborus) of the Crowfoot family, mostly having powerfully cathartic and even poisonous qualities. H. niger is the European black hellebore, or Christmas rose, blossoming in winter or earliest spring. H. officinalis was the officinal hellebore of the ancients.  2. (Bot.)  Any plant of several species of the poisonous liliaceous genus Veratrum, especially V. album and V. viride, both called white hellebore. 

HELLEBOREIN:  A poisonous glucoside accompanying helleborin in several species of hellebore, and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a bittersweet taste. It has a strong action on the heart, resembling digitalin. 

HELLEBORIN:  A poisonous glucoside found in several species of hellebore, and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a sharp tingling taste. It possesses the essential virtues of the plant; -- called also elleborin. 

HELLEBORISM:  The practice or theory of using hellebore as a medicine. 

HELLENE:  A native of either ancient or modern Greece; a Greek. Brewer. 

HELLENIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Hellenes, or Greeks. 

HELLENIC:  Of or pertaining to the Hellenes, or inhabitants of Greece; Greek; Grecian. "The Hellenic forces." Jowett (Thucyd. ). 

HELLENIC:  The dialect, formed with slight variations from the Attic, which prevailed among Greek writers after the time of Alexander. 

HELLENIST:  Pertaining to the Hellenists. Hellenistic language, dialect, or idiom, the Greek spoken or used by the Jews who lived in countries where the Greek language prevailed; the Jewish-Greek dialect or idiom of the Septuagint. 

HELLENISTICALLY:  According to the Hellenistic manner or dialect. J. Gregory. 

HELLENIZE:  To use the Greek language; to play the Greek; to Grecize. 

HELLENIZE:  To give a Greek form or character to; to Grecize; as, to Hellenize a word. 

HELLENOTYPE:  See Ivorytype. 

HELLESPONT:  A narrow strait between Europe and Asia, now called the Daradanelles. It connects the Ægean Sea and the sea of Marmora. 

HELLESPONTINE:  Of or pertaining to the Hellespont. Mitford.  HELLGAMITE; HELLGRAMITE Hell"ga*mite, Hell"gra*mite, n. (Zoöl.)  The aquatic larva of a large American winged insect (Corydalus cornutus), much used a fish bait by anglers; the dobson. It belongs to the Neuroptera. 

HELLHAG:  A hag of or fit for hell. Bp. Richardson.  HELL-HAUNTED Hell"-haunt`ed (, a.  Haunted by devils; hellish. Dryden. 

HELLHOUND:  A dog of hell; an agent of hell. A hellhound, that doth hunt us all to death. Shak. 

HELLIER:  One who heles or covers; hence, a tiler, slater, or thatcher. [Obs.] [Written also heler.] Usher. 

HELLISH:  Of or pertaining to hell; like hell; infernal; malignant; wicked; detestable; diabolical. "Hellish hate." Milton.  -- Hell"ish*ly, adv.  -- Hell"ish*ness, n. 

HELLKITE:  A kite of infernal breed. Shak. 

HELLO:  See Halloo. 

HELLWARD:  Toward hell. Pope. 

HELLY:  Hellish. Anderson (1573). 

HELM:  See Haulm, straw. 

HELM:  The apparatus by which a ship is steered, comprising rudder, tiller, wheel, etc.; -- commonly used of the tiller or wheel alone.  2. The place or office of direction or administration. "The helm of the Commonwealth." Melmoth.  3. One at the place of direction or control; a steersman; hence, a guide; a director. The helms o' the State, who care for you like fathers. Shak.  4. Etym: [Cf. Helve.]  A helve. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Helm amidships, when the tiller, rudder, and keel are in the same plane.  -- Helm aport, when the tiller is borne over to the port side of the ship.  -- Helm astarboard, when the tiller is borne to the starboard side.  -- Helm alee, Helm aweather, when the tiller is borne over to the lee or to the weather side.  -- Helm hard alee or hard aport, hard astarboard, etc., when the tiller is borne over to the extreme limit.  -- Helm port, the round hole in a vessel's counter through which the rudderstock passes.  -- Helm down, helm alee.  -- Helm up, helm aweather.  -- To ease the helm, to let the tiller come more amidships, so as to lessen the strain on the rudder.  -- To feel the helm, to obey it.  -- To right the helm, to put it amidships.  -- To shift the helm, to bear the tiller over to the corresponding position on the opposite side of the vessel. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

HELM:  To steer; to guide; to direct. [R.] The business he hath helmed. Shak. A wild wave . . . overbears the bark, And him that helms it. Tennyson. 

HELM:  To cover or furnish with a helm or helmet. [Perh. used only as a past part. or part. adj.] She that helmed was in starke stours. Chaucer. 

HELMAGE:  Guidance; direction. [R.] 

HELMED:  Covered with a helmet. The helmed cherubim Are seen in glittering ranks. Milton. 

HELMET:  A defensive covering for the head. See Casque, Headpiece, Morion, Sallet, and Illust. of Beaver.  2. (Her.)  The representation of a helmet over shields or coats of arms, denoting gradations of rank by modifications of form.  3. A helmet-shaped hat, made of cork, felt, metal, or other suitable material, worn as part of the uniform of soldiers, firemen, etc., also worn in hot countries as a protection from the heat of the sun.  4. That which resembles a helmet in form, position, etc.; as: (a) (Chem.) The upper part of a retort. Boyle. (b) (Bot.) The hood-formed upper sepal or petal of some flowers, as of the monkshood or the snapdragon. (c) (Zoöl.) A naked shield or protuberance on the top or fore part of the head of a bird. Helmet beetle (Zoöl.), a leaf-eating beetle of the family Chrysomelidæ, having a short, broad, and flattened body. Many species are known.  -- Helmet shell (Zoöl.), one of many species of tropical marine univalve shells belonging to Cassis and allied genera. Many of them are large and handsome; several are used for cutting as cameos, and hence are called cameo shells. See King conch.  -- Helmet shrike (Zoöl.), an African wood shrike of the genus Prionodon, having a large crest. 

HELMETED:  Wearing a helmet; furnished with or having a helmet or helmet- shaped part; galeate.  HELMET-SHAPED Hel"met-shaped` (, a.  Shaped like a helmet; galeate. See Illust. of Galeate. 

HELMINTH:  An intestinal worm, or wormlike intestinal parasite; one of the Helminthes. 

HELMINTHAGOGUE:  A vermifuge. 

HELMINTHES:  One of the grand divisions or branches of the animal kingdom. It is a large group including a vast number of species, most of which are parasitic. Called also Enthelminthes, Enthelmintha.  Note: The following classes are included, with others of less importance: Cestoidea (tapeworms), Trematodea (flukes, etc.), Turbellaria (planarians), Acanthocephala (thornheads), Nematoidea (roundworms, trichina, gordius), Nemertina (nemerteans). See Plathelminthes, and Nemathelminthes. 

HELMINTHIASIS:  A disease in which worms are present in some part of the body. 

HELMINTHIC:  Of or relating to worms, or Helminthes; expelling worms.  -- n.  A vermifuge; an anthelmintic. 

HELMINTHITE:  One of the sinuous tracks on the surfaces of many stones, and popularly considered as worm trails. 

HELMINTHOID:  Wormlike; vermiform.  HELMINTHOLOGIC; HELMINTHOLOGICAL Hel*min`tho*log"ic, Hel*min`tho*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. helminthologique.]  Of or pertaining to helminthology. 

HELMINTHOLOGIST:  One versed in helminthology. 

HELMINTHOLOGY:  The natural history, or study, of worms, esp. parasitic worms. 

HELMSMAN:  The man at the helm; a steersman. 

HELMWIND:  A wind attending or presaged by the cloud called helm. [Prov. Eng.] 

HELOT:  A slave in ancient Sparta; a Spartan serf; hence, a slave or serf. Those unfortunates, the Helots of mankind, more or less numerous in every community. I. Taylor. 

HELOTISM:  The condition of the Helots or slaves in Sparta; slavery. 

HELOTRY:  The Helots, collectively; slaves; bondsmen. "The Helotry of Mammon." Macaulay. 

HELP:  To lend aid or assistance; to contribute strength or means; to avail or be of use; to assist. A generous present helps to persuade, as well as an agreeable person. Garth. To help out, to lend aid; to bring a supply. 

HELPER:  One who, or that which, helps, aids, assists, or relieves; as, a lay helper in a parish. Thou art the helper of the fatherless. Ps. x. 14. Compassion . . . oftentimes a helper of evils. Dr. H. More. 

HELPFUL:  Furnishing help; giving aid; assistant; useful; salutary. Heavens make our presence and our practices Pleasant and helpful to him! Shak. -- Help"ful*ly, adv.  -- Help"ful*ness, n. Milton. 

HELPMATE:  A helper; a companion; specifically, a wife. In Minorca the ass and the hog are common helpmates, and are yoked together in order to turn up the land. Pennant. A waiting woman was generally considered as the most suitable helpmate for a parson. Macaulay. 

HELPMEET:  A wife; a helpmate. The Lord God created Adam, . . . and afterwards, on his finding the want of a helpmeet, caused him to sleep, and took one of his ribs and thence made woman. J. H. Newman.  HELTER-SKELTER Hel"ter-skel"ter, adv. Etym: [An onomatholter-polter, D. holder de bolder.]  In hurry and confusion; without definite purpose; irregularly. [Colloq.] Helter-skelter have I rode to thee. Shak. A wistaria vine running helter-skelter across the roof. J. C. Harris. 

HELVE:  To furnish with a helve, as an ax. 

HELVETIAN:  Same as Helvetic.  -- n.  A Swiss; a Switzer. 

HELVETIC:  Of or pertaining to the Helvetii, the ancient inhabitant of the Alps, now Switzerland, or to the modern states and inhabitant of the Alpine regions; as, the Helvetic confederacy; Helvetic states.  HELVINE; HELVITE Hel"vine, Hel"vite, n. Etym: [L. helvus of a light bay color.] (Min.)  A mineral of a yellowish color, consisting chiefly of silica, glucina, manganese, and iron, with a little sulphur. 

HEM:  Them [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEM:  An onomatopoetic word used as an expression of hesitation, doubt, etc. It is often a sort of voluntary half cough, loud or subdued, and would perhaps be better expressed by hm. Cough or cry hem, if anybody come. Shak. 

HEM:  An utterance or sound of the voice, hem or hm, often indicative of hesitation or doubt, sometimes used to call attention. "His morning hems." Spectator. 

HEM:  To make the sound expressed by the word hem; hence, to hesitate in speaking. "Hem, and stroke thy beard." Shak. 

HEM:  Same as Hæma-. 

HEMACHATE:  A species of agate, sprinkled with spots of red jasper. 

HEMACHROME:  Same as Hæmachrome. 

HEMACITE:  A composition made from blood, mixed with mineral or vegetable substances, used for making buttons, door knobs, etc.  HEMADROMETER; HEMADROMOMETER Hem`a*drom"e*ter, Hem`a*dro*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Hema- + Gr. -meter.] (Physiol.)  An instrument for measuring the velocity with which the blood moves in the arteries.  HEMADROMETRY; HEMADROMOMETRY Hem`a*drom`e*try, Hem`a*dro*mom"e*try, n. (Physiol.)  The act of measuring the velocity with which the blood circulates in the arteries; hæmotachometry. 

HEMADYNAMICS:  The principles of dynamics in their application to the blood; that part of science which treats of the motion of the blood. 

HEMADYNAMOMETER:  An instrument by which the pressure of the blood in the arteries, or veins, is measured by the height to which it will raise a column of mercury; -- called also a hæmomanometer. 

HEMAL:  Relating to the blood or blood vessels; pertaining to, situated in the region of, or on the side with, the heart and great blood vessels; -- opposed to neural.  Note: As applied to vertebrates, hemal is the same as ventral, the heart and great blood vessels being on the ventral, and the central nervous system on the dorsal, side of the vertebral column. Hemal arch (Anat.), the ventral arch in a segment of the spinal skeleton, formed by vertebral processes or ribs. 

HEMAPHAEIN:  Same as Hæmaphæin. 

HEMAPOPHYSIS:  The second element in each half of a hemal arch, corresponding to the sternal part of a rib. Owen.  -- Hem`a*po*phys"i*al, a.  HEMASTATIC; HEMASTATICAL Hem`a*stat"ic, Hem`a*stat"ic*al, a. & n.  Same as Hemostatic. 

HEMASTATICS:  Laws relating to the equilibrium of the blood in the blood vessels. 

HEMATACHOMETER:  Same as Hæmatachometer. 

HEMATEIN:  A reddish brown or violet crystalline substance, C16H12O6, got from hematoxylin by partial oxidation, and regarded as analogous to the phthaleins. 

HEMATEMESIS:  A vomiting of blood. 

HEMATHERM:  A warm-blooded animal. [R.] 

HEMATHERMAL:  Warm-blooded; hematothermal. [R] 

HEMATIC:  Same as Hæmatic. 

HEMATIC:  A medicine designed to improve the condition of the blood. 

HEMATIN:  A bluish black, amorphous substance containing iron and obtained from blood. It exists the red blood corpuscles united with globulin, and the form of hemoglobin or oxyhemoglobin gives to the blood its red color. 

HEMATINIC:  Any substance, such as an iron salt or organic compound containing iron, which when ingested tends to increase the hemoglobin contents of the blood. 

HEMATINOMETER:  A form of hemoglobinometer. 

HEMATINOMETRIC:  Relating to the measurement of the amount of hematin or hemoglobin contained in blood, or other fluids. 

HEMATINON:  A red consisting of silica, borax, and soda, fused with oxide of copper and iron, and used in enamels, mosaics, etc. 

HEMATITE:  An important ore of iron, the sesquioxide, so called because of the red color of the powder. It occurs in splendent rhombohedral crystals, and in massive and earthy forms; -- the last called red ocher. Called also specular iron, oligist iron, rhombohedral iron ore, and bloodstone. See Brown hematite, under Brown. 

HEMATITIC:  Of or pertaining to hematite, or resembling it. 

HEMATO:  See Hæma-. 

HEMATOCELE:  A tumor filled with blood. 

HEMATOCRYA:  The cold-blooded vertebrates, that is, all but the mammals and birds; -- the antithesis to Hematotherma. 

HEMATOCRYSTALLIN:  See Hemoglobin. 

HEMATOID:  Resembling blood. 

HEMATOIDIN:  A crystalline or amorphous pigment, free from iron, formed from hematin in old blood stains, and in old hemorrhages in the body. It resembles bilirubin. When present in the corpora lutea it is called hæmolutein. 

HEMATOLOGY:  The science which treats of the blood. 

HEMATOMA:  A circumscribed swelling produced by an effusion of blood beneath the skin. 

HEMATOPHILIA:  A condition characterized by a tendency to profuse and uncontrollable hemorrhage from the slightest wounds. 

HEMATOSIN:  The hematin of blood. [R.] 

HEMATOTHERMA:  The warm-blooded vertebrates, comprising the mammals and birds; -- the antithesis to hematocrya. 

HEMATOTHERMAL:  Warm-blooded. 

HEMATOXYLIN:  Hæmatoxylin. 

HEMATURIA:  Passage of urine mingled with blood. 

HEMAUTOGRAPHY:  The obtaining of a curve similar to a pulse curve or sphygmogram by allowing the blood from a divided artery to strike against a piece of paper.  HEMELYTRON; HEMELYTRUM Hem*el"y*tron or, Hem*el"y*trum (-trûm cf. Elytron, 277),, n.; pl. Hemelytra (. Etym: [NL. See Hemi, and Elytron.] (Zoöl.)  One of the partially thickened anterior wings of certain insects, as of many Hemiptera, the earwigs, etc. 

HEMERALOPIA:  A disease of the eyes, in consequence of which a person can see clearly or without pain only by daylight or a strong artificial light; day sight.  Note: Some writers (as Quain) use the word in the opposite sense, i. e., day blindness. See Nyctalopia. 

HEMEROBIAN:  A neuropterous insect of the genus Hemerobius, and allied genera. 

HEMEROBID:  Of relating to the hemerobians. 

HEMEROCALLIS:  A genus of plants, some species of which are cultivated for their beautiful flowers; day lily.  HEMI- Hem"i-. Etym: [Gr. "hmi-. See Semi-.]  A prefix signifying half. 

HEMIALBUMIN:  Same as Hemialbumose. 

HEMIALBUMOSE:  An albuminous substance formed in gastric digestion, and by the action of boiling dilute acids on albumin. It is readily convertible into hemipeptone. Called also hemialbumin. 

HEMIANAESTHESIA:  Anæsthesia upon one side of the body. 

HEMIBRANCHI:  An order of fishes having an incomplete or reduced branchial apparatus. It includes the sticklebacks, the flutemouths, and Fistularia. 

HEMICARDIA:  A lateral half of the heart, either the right or left. B. G. Wilder. 

HEMICARP:  One portion of a fruit that spontaneously divides into halves. 

HEMICEREBRUM:  A lateral half of the cerebrum. Wilder. 

HEMICOLLIN:  See Semiglutin. 

HEMICRANIA:  A pain that affects only one side of the head. 

HEMICRANY:  Hemicranis. 

HEMIDACTYL:  Any species of Old World geckoes of the genus Hemidactylus. The hemidactyls have dilated toes, with two rows of plates beneath.  HEMI-DEMI-SEMIQUAVER Hem`i-dem`i-sem"i*quaver, n. Etym: [Hemi- + demi-semiquaver.] (Mus.)  A short note, equal to one fourth of a semiquaver, or the sixty-fourth part of a whole note. 

HEMIDITONE:  The lesser third. Busby. 

HEMIGAMOUS:  Having one of the two florets in the same spikelet neuter, and the other unisexual, whether male or female; -- said of grasses. 

HEMIGLYPH:  The half channel or groove in the edge of the triglyph in the Doric order. 

HEMIHEDRAL:  Having half of the similar parts of a crystals, instead of all; consisting of half the planes which full symmetry would require, as when a cube has planes only on half of its eight solid angles, or one plane out of a pair on each of its edges; or as in the case of a tetrahedron, which is hemihedral to an octahedron, it being contained under four of the planes of an octahedron.  -- Hem`i*he"dral*ly, adv. 

HEMIHEDRISM:  The property of crystallizing hemihedrally. 

HEMIHEDRON:  A solid hemihedrally derived. The tetrahedron is a hemihedron. 

HEMIHOLOHEDRAL:  Presenting hemihedral forms, in which half the sectants have the full number of planes. 

HEMIMELLITIC:  Having half as many (three) carboxyl radicals as mellitic acid; -- said of an organic acid. 

HEMIMETABOLA:  Those insects which have an incomplete metamorphosis. 

HEMIMETABOLIC:  Having an incomplete metamorphosis, the larvæ differing from the adults chiefly in laking wings, as in the grasshoppers and cockroaches. 

HEMIMORPHIC:  Having the two ends modified with unlike planes; -- said of a crystal. 

HEMIN:  A substance, in the form of reddish brown, microscopic, prismatic crystals, formed from dried blood by the action of strong acetic acid and common salt; -- called also Teichmann's crystals. Chemically, it is a hydrochloride of hematin.  Note: The obtaining of these small crystals, from old blood clots or suspected blood stains, constitutes one of the best evidences of the presence of blood. 

HEMINA:  A measure of half a sextary. Arbuthnot.  2. (Med.)  A measure equal to about ten fluid ounces. 

HEMIONUS:  A wild ass found in Thibet; the kiang. Darwin.  HEMIOPIA; HEMIOPSIA Hem`i*o"pi*a, Hem`i*op"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)  A defect of vision in consequence of which a person sees but half of an object looked at. 

HEMIORTHOTYPE:  Same as Monoclinic. 

HEMIPEPTONE:  A product of the gastric and pancreatic digestion of albuminous matter.  Note: Unlike antipeptone it is convertible into leucin and tyrosin, by the continued action of pancreatic juice. See Peptone. It is also formed from hemialbumose and albumin by the action of boiling dilute sulphuric acid. 

HEMIPLEGIA:  A palsy that affects one side only of the body.  -- Hem`i"pleg"ic, a. 

HEMIPLEGY:  Hemiplegia. 

HEMIPODE:  Any bird of the genus Turnix. Various species inhabit Asia, Africa, and Australia. 

HEMIPROTEIN:  An insoluble, proteid substance, described by Schützenberger, formed when albumin is heated for some time with dilute sulphuric acid. It is apparently identical with antialbumid and dyspeptone. 

HEMIPTER:  One of the Hemiptera. 

HEMIPTERA:  An order of hexapod insects having a jointed proboscis, including four sharp stylets (mandibles and maxillæ), for piercing. In many of the species (Heteroptera) the front wings are partially coriaceous, and different from the others.  Note: They are divided into the Heteroptera, including the squash bug, soldier bug, bedbug, etc.; the Homoptera, including the cicadas, cuckoo spits, plant lice, scale insects, etc.; the Thysanoptera, including the thrips, and, according to most recent writers, the Pediculina or true lice.  HEMIPTERAL; HEMIPTEROUS He*mip"ter*al, He*mip"ter*ous, a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Hemiptera. 

HEMIPTERAN:  One of the Hemiptera; an hemipter. 

HEMISECT:  To divide along the mesial plane. 

HEMISECTION:  A division along the mesial plane; also, one of the parts so divided. 

HEMISPHERE:  Containing, or pertaining to, a hemisphere; as, a hemispheric figure or form; a hemispherical body. 

HEMISPHEROID:  A half of a spheroid. 

HEMISPHEROIDAL:  Resembling, or approximating to, a hemisphere in form. 

HEMISPHERULE:  A half spherule. 

HEMISTICH:  Half a poetic verse or line, or a verse or line not completed. 

HEMISTICHAL:  Pertaining to, or written in, hemistichs; also, by, or according to, hemistichs; as, a hemistichal division of a verse. 

HEMISYSTOLE:  Contraction of only one ventricle of the heart.  Note: Hemisystole is noticed in rare cases of insufficiency of the mitral valve, in which both ventricles at times contract simultaneously, as in a normal heart, this condition alternating with contraction of the right ventricle alone; hence, intermittent hemisystole. 

HEMITONE:  See Semitone.  HEMITROPAL; HEMITROPOUS He*mit"ro*pal, He*mit"ro*pous, a. Etym: [See Hemitrope.]  1. Turned half round; half inverted.  2. (Bot.)  Having the raphe terminating about half way between the chalaza and the orifice; amphitropous; -- said of an ovule. Gray. 

HEMITROPE:  Half turned round; half inverted; (Crystallog.) having a twinned structure. 

HEMITROPE:  That which is hemitropal in construction; (Crystallog.) a twin crystal having a hemitropal structure. 

HEMITROPY:  Twin composition in crystals. 

HEMLOCK:  The name of several poisonous umbelliferous herbs having finely cut leaves and small white flowers, as the Cicuta maculata, bulbifera, and virosa, and the Conium maculatum. See Conium.  Note: The potion of hemlock administered to Socrates is by some thought to have been a decoction of Cicuta virosa, or water hemlock, by others, of Conium maculatum.  2. (Bot.)  An evergreen tree common in North America (Abies, or Tsuga, Canadensis); hemlock spruce. The murmuring pines and the hemlocks. Longfellow.  3. The wood or timber of the hemlock tree. Ground hemlock, or Dwarf hemlock. See under Ground. 

HEMMEL:  A shed or hovel for cattle. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

HEMMER:  One who, or that which, hems with a needle. Specifically: (a) An attachment to a sewing machine, for turning under the edge of a piece of fabric, preparatory to stitching it down. (b) A tool for turning over the edge of sheet metal to make a hem.  HEMO- Hem"o-.  Same as Hæma-, Hæmo-. 

HEMOGLOBIN:  The normal coloring matter of the red blood corpuscles of vertebrate animals. It is composed of hematin and globulin, and is also called hæmatoglobulin. In arterial blood, it is always combined with oxygen, and is then called oxyhemoglobin. It crystallizes under different forms from different animals, and when crystallized, is called hæmatocrystallin. See Blood crystal, under Blood. 

HEMOGLOBINOMETER:  Same as Hæmochromometer. 

HEMOPHILIA:  See Hematophilia. 

HEMOPTYSIS:  The expectoration of blood, due usually to hemorrhage from the mucous membrane of the lungs. 

HEMORRHAGE:  Any discharge of blood from the blood vessels.  Note: The blood circulates in a system of closed tubes, the rupture of which gives rise to hemorrhage. 

HEMORRHAGIC:  Pertaining or tending to a flux o 

HEMORRHOIDAL:  Of or pertaining to the rectum; rectal; as, the hemorrhoidal arteries, veins, and nerves. 

HEMORRHOIDS:  Livid and painful swellings formed by the dilation of the blood vessels around the margin of, or within, the anus, from which blood or mucus is occasionally discharged; piles; emerods. [The sing. hemorrhoid is rarely used.] 

HEMOSTATIC:  Of or relating to stagnation of the blood.  2. Serving to arrest hemorrhage; styptic. 

HEMOSTATIC:  A medicine or application to arrest hemorrhage. 

HEMOTHORAX:  An effusion of blood into the cavity of the pleura. 

HEMP:  A plant of the genus Cannabis (C. sativa), the fibrous skin or bark of which is used for making cloth and cordage. The name is also applied to various other plants yielding fiber.  2. The fiber of the skin or rind of the plant, prepared for spinning. The name has also been extended to various fibers resembling the true hemp. African hemp, Bowstring hemp. See under African, and Bowstring.  -- Bastard hemp, the Asiatic herb Datisca cannabina.  -- Canada hemp, a species of dogbane (Apocynum cannabinum), the fiber of which was used by the Indians.  -- Hemp agrimony, a coarse, composite herb of Europe (Eupatorium cannabinum), much like the American boneset.  -- Hemp nettle, a plant of the genus Galeopsis (G. Tetrahit), belonging to the Mint family.  -- Indian hemp. See under Indian, a.  -- Manila hemp, the fiber of Musa textilis.  -- Sisal hemp, the fiber of Agave sisalana, of Mexico and Yucatan.  -- Sunn hemp, a fiber obtained from a leguminous plant (Crotalaria juncea).  -- Water hemp, an annual American weed (Acnida cannabina), related to the amaranth. 

HEMPY:  Like hemp. [R.] Howell.  HEMSELF; HEMSELVE; HEMSELVEN Hem*self", Hem*selve" (, Hem*selv"en (, pron. pl. Etym: [See Hem, pron.]  Themselves; -- used reflexively. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEMSTITCH:  To ornament at the head of a broad hem by drawing out a few parallel threads, and fastening the cross threads in successive small clusters; as, to hemstitch a handkerchief. 

HEMSTITCHED:  Having a broad hem separated from the body of the article by a line of open work; as, a hemistitched handkerchief. 

HEMUSE:  The roebuck in its third year. [Prov. Eng.] 

HEN:  The female of the domestic fowl; also, the female of grouse, pheasants, or any kind of birds; as, the heath hen; the gray hen.  Note: Used adjectively or in combination to indicate the female; as, hen canary, hen eagle, hen turkey, peahen. Hen clam. (Zoöl.) (a) A clam of the Mactra, and allied genera; the sea clam or surf clam. See Surf clam. (b) A California clam of the genus Pachydesma.  -- Hen driver. See Hen harrier (below).  -- Hen harrier (Zoöl.), a hawk (Circus cyaneus), found in Europe and America; -- called also dove hawk, henharm, henharrow, hen driver, and usually, in America, marsh hawk. See Marsh hawk.  -- Hen hawk (Zoöl.), one of several species of large hawks which capture hens; esp., the American red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis), the red-shouldered hawk (B. lineatus), and the goshawk. 

HENBANE:  A plant of the genus Hyoscyamus (H. niger). All parts of the plant are poisonous, and the leaves are used for the same purposes as belladonna. It is poisonous to domestic fowls; whence the name. Called also, stinking nightshade, from the fetid odor of the plant. See Hyoscyamus. 

HENBIT:  A weed of the genus Lamium (L. amplexicaule) with deeply crenate leaves. 

HENCE:  To send away. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

HENCEFORTH:  From this time forward; henceforward. I never from thy side henceforth to stray. Milton. 

HENCEFORWARD:  From this time forward; henceforth. 

HENCHBOY:  A page; a servant. [Obs.] 

HENCHMAN:  An attendant; a servant; a follower. Now chiefly used as a political cant term. 

HENCOOP:  A coop or cage for hens. 

HENDECAGON:  A plane figure of eleven sides and eleven angles. [Written also endecagon.] 

HENDECANE:  A hydrocarbon, C11H24, of the paraffin series; -- so called because it has eleven atoms of carbon in each molecule. Called also endecane, undecane. 

HENDECASYLLABIC:  Pertaining to a line of eleven syllables. 

HENDECASYLLABLE:  A metrical line of eleven syllables. J. Warton. 

HENDECATOIC:  Undecylic; pertaining to, or derived from, hendecane; as, hendecatoic acid. 

HENDIADYS:  A figure in which the idea is expressed by two nouns connected by and, instead of by a noun and limiting adjective; as, we drink from cups and gold, for golden cups. 

HENDY:  See Hende. 

HENEN:  Hence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HENG:  Hung. Chaucer.  HEN-HEARTED Hen"-heart`ed, a.  Cowardly; timid; chicken-hearted. Udall. 

HENHOUSE:  A house or shelter for fowls. 

HENHUSSY:  A cotquean; a man who intermeddles with women's concerns. 

HENIQUEN:  See Jeniquen. 

HENNA:  A thorny tree or shrub of the genus Lawsonia (L. alba). The fragrant white blossoms are used by the Buddhists in religious ceremonies. The powdered leaves furnish a red coloring matter used in the East to stain the hails and fingers, the manes of horses, etc.  2. (Com.)  The leaves of the henna plant, or a preparation or dyestuff made from them. 

HENNERY:  An inclosed place for keeping hens. [U. S.] 

HENNES:  Hence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HENNOTANNIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a brown resinous substance resembling tannin, and extracted from the henna plant; as, hennotannic acid.  HENOGENY; HENOGENESIS He*nog"e* ny, Hen`o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)  Same as Ontogeny. 

HENOTHEISM:  Primitive religion in which each of several divinities is regarded as independent, and is worshiped without reference to the rest. [R.] 

HENOTIC:  Harmonizing; irenic. Gladstone. 

HENPECK:  To subject to petty authority; -- said of a wife who thus treats her husband. Commonly used in the past participle (often adjectively).  HENRIETTA CLOTH Hen`ri*et"ta cloth`.  A fine wide wooled fabric much used for women's dresses. 

HENROOST:  A place where hens roost. 

HENRY:  The unit of electric induction; the induction in a circuit when the electro-motive force induced in this circuit is one volt, while the inducing current varies at the rate of one ampère a second.  HEN'S-FOOT Hen's-foot` (, n. (Bot.)  An umbelliferous plant (Caucalis daucoides). 

HENT:  To seize; to lay hold on; to catch; to get. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Spenser. This cursed Jew him hente and held him fast. Chaucer. But all that he might of his friendes hente On bookes and on learning he it spente. Chaucer. 

HENWARE:  A coarse, blackish seaweed. See Badderlocks. 

HENXMAN:  Henchman. [Obs.] 

HEP:  See Hip, the fruit of the dog-rose. 

HEPAR:  Liver of sulphur; a substance of a liver-brown color, sometimes used in medicine. It is formed by fusing sulphur with carbonates of the alkalies (esp. potassium), and consists essentially of alkaline sulphides. Called also hepar sulphuris (.  2. Any substance resembling hepar proper, in appearance; specifically, in homeopathy, calcium sulphide, called also hepar sulphuris calcareum ( Hepar antimonii ( (Old Chem.), a substance, of a liver-brown color, obtained by fusing together antimony sulphide with alkaline sulphides, and consisting of sulphantimonites of the alkalies; -- called also liver of antimony. 

HEPATIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the plants called Hepaticæ, or scale mosses and liverworts. Hepatic duct (Anat.), any biliary duct; esp., the duct, or one of the ducts, which carries the bile from the liver to the cystic and common bile ducts. See Illust., under Digestive.  -- Hepatic gas (Old Chem.), sulphureted hydrogen gas.  -- Hepatic mercurial ore, or Hepatic cinnabar. See under Cinnabar. 

HEPATICA:  A genus of pretty spring flowers closely related to Anemone; squirrel cup.  2. (bot.)  Any plant, usually procumbent and mosslike, of the cryptogamous class Hepaticæ; -- called also scale moss and liverwort. See Hepaticæ, in the Supplement. 

HEPATICAL:  Hepatic. [R.] 

HEPATITE:  A variety of barite emitting a fetid odor when rubbed or heated. 

HEPATITIS:  Inflammation of the liver. 

HEPATIZATION:  Impregnating with sulphureted hydrogen gas. [Obs.]  2. Etym: [Cf. F. hépatisation.] (Med.)  Conversion into a substance resembling the liver; a state of the lungs when gorged with effused matter, so that they are no longer pervious to the air. 

HEPATOCELE:  Hernia of the liver. 

HEPATOCYSTIC:  Of or pertaining to the liver and gall bladder; as, the hepatocystic ducts. 

HEPATOGASTRIC:  See Gastrohepatic.  HEPATOGENIC; HEPATOGENOUS Hep`a*to*gen"ic, Hep`a*tog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. "h ar, "h`patos, the liver + root of gi`gnesthai to be born] (Med.)  Arising from the liver; due to a condition of the liver; as, hepatogenic jaundice. 

HEPATOLOGY:  The science which treats of the liver; a treatise on the liver.  HEPATO-PANCREAS Hep"a*to-pan"cre*as, n. Etym: [Gr. "h ar, "h`patos, the liver + E. pancreas.] (Zoöl.)  A digestive gland in Crustacea, Mollusca, etc., usually called the liver, but different from the liver of vertebrates. 

HEPATORENAL:  Of or pertaining to the liver and kidneys; as, the hepatorenal ligament. 

HEPATOSCOPY:  Divination by inspecting the liver of animals. 

HEPPELWHITE:  Designating a light and elegant style developed in England under George III., chiefly by Messrs. A.Heppelwhite & Co. 

HEPPEN:  Neat; fit; comfortable. [Obs.] 

HEPPER:  A young salmon; a parr. 

HEPTA:  A combining form from Gr. "epta`, seven. 

HEPTACHORD:  A composition sung to the sound of seven chords or tones. Moore (Encyc. of Music). 

HEPTAD:  An atom which has a valence of seven, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, seven monad atoms or radicals; as, iodine is a heptad in iodic acid. Also used as an adjective. 

HEPTADE:  The sum or number of seven. 

HEPTAGLOT:  A book in seven languages. 

HEPTAGON:  A plane figure consisting of seven sides and having seven angles. 

HEPTAGONAL:  Having seven angles or sides. Heptagonal numbers (Arith.), the numbers of the series 1, 7, 18, 34, 55, etc., being figurate numbers formed by adding successively the terms of the arithmetical series 1, 6, 11, 16, 21, etc. 

HEPTAGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants having seven pistils.  HEPTAGYNIAN; HEPTAGYNOUS Hep`ta*gyn"i*an, Hep*tag"y*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. heptagyne.] (Bot.)  Having seven pistils. 

HEPTAHEDRON:  A solid figure with seven sides. 

HEPTAMEROUS:  Consisting of seven parts, or having the parts in sets of sevens. Gray. 

HEPTANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having seven stamens.  HEPTANDRIAN; HEPTANDROUS Hep*tan"dri*an, Hep*tan"drous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. heptandre.] (Bot.)  Having seven stamens. 

HEPTANE:  Any one of several isometric hydrocarbons, C7H16, of the paraffin series (nine are possible, four are known); -- so called because the molecule has seven carbon atoms. Specifically, a colorless liquid, found as a constituent of petroleum, in the tar oil of cannel coal, etc. 

HEPTANGULAR:  Having seven angles. 

HEPTAPHYLLOUS:  Having seven leaves. 

HEPTARCH:  Same as Heptarchist. 

HEPTARCHIC:  Of or pertaining to a heptarchy; constituting or consisting of a heptarchy. T. Warton. 

HEPTARCHIST:  A ruler of one division of a heptarchy. [Written also heptarch.] 

HEPTARCHY:  A government by seven persons; also, a country under seven rulers.  Note: The word is most commonly applied to England, when it was divided into seven kingdoms; as, the Saxon heptachy, which consisted of Kent, the South Saxons (Sussex), West Saxons (Wessex), East Saxons (Essex), the East Angles, Mercia, and Northumberland. 

HEPTASPERMOUS:  Having seven seeds. 

HEPTASTICH:  A composition consisting of seven lines or verses. 

HEPTATEUCH:  The first seven books of the Testament. 

HEPTAVALENT:  Having seven units of attractive force or affinity; -- said of heptad elements or radicals. 

HEPTENE:  Same as Heptylene. 

HEPTINE:  Any one of a series of unsaturated metameric hydrocarbons, C7H12, of the acetylene series. 

HEPTOIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, heptane; as, heptoic acid. 

HEPTONE:  A liquid hydrocarbon, C7H10, of the valylene series.  HEP TREE Hep" tree`. Etym: [See Hep.]  The wild dog-rose. 

HEPTYL:  A compound radical, C7H15, regarded as the essential radical of heptane and a related series of compounds. 

HEPTYLENE:  A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, C7H14, of the ethylene series; also, any one of its isomers. Called also heptene. 

HEPTYLIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, heptyl or heptane; as, heptylic alcohol. Cf. . 

HER:  The form of the objective and the possessive case of the personal pronoun she; as, I saw her with her purse out.  Note: The possessive her takes the form hers when the noun with which in agrees is not given, but implied. "And what his fortune wanted, hers could mend." Dryden.  HER; HERE Her, Here (, pron. pl. Etym: [OE. here, hire, AS. heora, hyra, gen. pl. of he. See He.]  Of them; their. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. On here bare knees adown they fall. Chaucer. 

HERACLEONITE:  A follower of Heracleon of Alexandria, a Judaizing Gnostic, in the early history of the Christian church. 

HERAKLINE:  A picrate compound, used as an explosive in blasting. 

HERALD:  An officer whose business was to denounce or proclaim war, to challenge to battle, to proclaim peace, and to bear messages from the commander of an army. He was invested with a sacred and inviolable character.  2. In the Middle Ages, the officer charged with the above duties, and also with the care of genealogies, of the rights and privileges of noble families, and especially of armorial bearings. In modern times, some vestiges of this office remain, especially in England. See Heralds' College (below), and King-at-Arms.  3. A proclaimer; one who, or that which, publishes or announces; as, the herald of another's fame. Shak.  4. A forerunner; a a precursor; a harbinger. It was the lark, the herald of the morn. Shak.  5. Any messenger. "My herald is returned." Shak. Heralds' College, in England, an ancient corporation, dependent upon the crown, instituted or perhaps recognized by Richard III. in 1483, consisting of the three Kings-at-Arms and the Chester, Lancaster, Richmond, Somerset, Windsor, and York Heralds, together with the Earl Marshal. This retains from the Middle Ages the charge of the armorial bearings of persons privileged to bear them, as well as of genealogies and kindred subjects; -- called also College of Arms. 

HERALD:  To introduce, or give tidings of, as by a herald; to proclaim; to announce; to foretell; to usher in. Shak. 

HERALDIC:  Of or pertaining to heralds or heraldry; as, heraldic blazoning; heraldic language. T. Warton. 

HERALDICALLY:  In an heraldic manner; according to the rules of heraldry. 

HERALDRY:  The art or office of a herald; the art, practice, or science of recording genealogies, and blazoning arms or ensigns armorial; also, of marshaling cavalcades, processions, and public ceremonies. 

HERALDSHIP:  The office of a herald. Selden. 

HERAPATHITE:  The sulphate of iodoquinine, a substance crystallizing in thin plates remarkable for their effects in polarizing light. 

HERAUD:  A herald. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HERBACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to herbs; having the nature, texture, or characteristics, of an herb; as, herbaceous plants; an herbaceous stem. 

HERBAGE:  The liberty or right of pasture in the forest or in the grounds of another man. Blount. 

HERBAGED:  Covered with grass. Thomson. 

HERBAL:  Of or pertaining to herbs. Quarles. 

HERBALISM:  The knowledge of herbs. 

HERBALIST:  One skilled in the knowledge of plants; a collector of, or dealer in, herbs, especially medicinal herbs. 

HERBAR:  An herb. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HERBARIAN:  A herbalist. 

HERBARIST:  A herbalist. [Obs.] 

HERBARIZE:  See Herborize. 

HERBARY:  A garden of herbs; a cottage garden. T. Warton. 

HERBER:  A garden; a pleasure garden. [Obs.] "Into an herber green." Chaucer. 

HERBERGAGE:  Harborage; lodging; shelter; harbor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HERBERGEOUR:  A harbinger. [Obs.] Chaucer.  HERBERGH; HERBERWE Her"bergh, Her"ber*we (, n. Etym: [See Harbor.]  A harbor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HERBESCENT:  Growing into herbs. 

HERBID:  Covered with herbs. [Obs.] Bailey. 

HERBIFEROUS:  Bearing herbs or vegetation. 

HERBIST:  A herbalist. 

HERBIVORA:  An extensive division of Mammalia. It formerly included the Proboscidea, Hyracoidea, Perissodactyla, and Artiodactyla, but by later writers it is generally restricted to the two latter groups (Ungulata). They feed almost exclusively upon vegetation. 

HERBIVORE:  One of the Herbivora. P. H. Gosse. 

HERBIVOROUS:  Eating plants; of or pertaining to the Herbivora. 

HERBLESS:  Destitute of herbs or of vegetation. J. Warton. 

HERBLET:  A small herb. Shak. 

HERBORIST:  A herbalist. Ray. 

HERBORIZE:  To search for plants, or new species of plants, with a view to classifying them. He herborized as he traveled. W. Tooke. 

HERBORIZE:  To form the figures of plants in; -- said in reference to minerals. See Arborized. Herborized stones contain fine mosses. Fourcroy (Trans.) 

HERBOROUGH:  A harbor. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  HERBOSE; HERBOUS Her*bose", Herb"ous, a. Etym: [L. herbosus: cf. F. herbeux.]  Abounding with herbs. "Fields poetically called herbose." Byrom.  HERB-WOMAN Herb"-wom`an, n.; pl. Herb-women (.  A woman that sells herbs. 

HERBY:  Having the nature of, pertaining to, or covered with, herbs or herbage. "Herby valleys." Chapman. 

HERCOGAMOUS:  Not capable of self-fertilization; -- said of hermaphrodite flowers in which some structural obstacle forbids autogamy. 

HERCULES:  A hero, fabled to have been the son of Jupiter and Alcmena, and celebrated for great strength, esp. for the accomplishment of his twelve great tasks or "labors."  2. (Astron.)  A constellation in the northern hemisphere, near Lyra. Hercules' beetle (Zoöl.), any species of Dynastes, an American genus of very large lamellicorn beetles, esp. D. hercules of South America, which grows to a length of six inches.  -- Hercules' club. (Bot.) (a) An ornamental tree of the West Indies (Zanthoxylum Clava-Herculis), of the same genus with the prickly ash. (b) A variety of the common gourd (Lagenaria vulgaris). Its fruit sometimes exceeds five feet in length. (c) The Angelica tree. See under Angelica.  -- Hercules powder, an explosive containing nitroglycerin; -- used for blasting. 

HERCYNIAN:  Of or pertaining to an extensive forest in Germany, of which there are still portions in Swabia and the Hartz mountains. 

HERD:  Haired. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HERD:  One who herds or assembles domestic animals; a herdsman; -- much used in composition; as, a shepherd; a goatherd, and the like. Chaucer. 

HERD:  To form or put into a herd. 

HERDBOOK:  A book containing the list and pedigrees of one or more herds of choice breeds of cattle; -- also called herd record, or herd register. 

HERDER:  A herdsman. [R.] 

HERDERITE:  A rare fluophosphate of glucina, in small white crystals. 

HERDESS:  A shepherdess; a female herder. Sir P. Sidney. Chaucer. 

HERDGROOM:  A herdsman. [Obs.] 

HERDIC:  A kind of low-hung cab.  HERDMAN; HERDSMAN Herd"man, Herds"man, n.; pl. -men (.  The owner or keeper of a herd or of herds; one employed in tending a herd of cattle. 

HERDSWOMAN:  A woman who tends a herd. Sir W. Scott. 

HERE:  Hair. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEREAFTER:  In time to come; in some future time or state. Hereafter he from war shall come. Dryden. 

HEREAFTER:  A future existence or state. 'Tis Heaven itself that points out an hereafter. Addison. 

HEREAFTERWARD:  Hereafter. [Obs.] Thou shalt hereafterward . . . come. Chaucer.  HERE-AT Here-at", adv.  At, or by reason of, this; as, he was offended hereat. Hooker. 

HEREDITABILITY:  State of being hereditable. Brydges. 

HEREDITABLY:  By inheritance. W. Tooke. 

HEREDITAMENT:  Any species of property that may be inherited; lands, tenements, anything corporeal or incorporeal, real, personal, or mixed, that may descend to an heir. Blackstone.  Note: A corporeal hereditament is visible and tangible; an incorporeal hereditament is not in itself visible or tangible, being an hereditary right, interest, or obligation, as duty to pay rent, or a right of way. 

HEREDITARILY:  By inheritance; in an hereditary manner. Pope. 

HEREDITY:  Hereditary transmission of the physical and psychical qualities of parents to their offspring; the biological law by which living beings tend to repeat their characteristics in their descendants. See Pangenesis. 

HEREFORD:  One of a breed of cattle originating in Herefordshire, England. The Herefords are good working animals, and their beef-producing quality is excellent. 

HEREHENCE:  From hence. [Obs.] 

HEREIN:  In this. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. John xv. 8. 

HEREINAFTER:  In the following part of this (writing, document, speech, and the like). 

HEREINBEFORE:  In the preceding part of this (writing, document, book, etc.). 

HEREINTO:  Into this. Hooker.  HEREMIT; HEREMITE Her"e*mit, Her"e*mite, n. Etym: [See Hermit.]  A hermit. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

HEREMITICAL:  Of or pertaining to a hermit; solitary; secluded from society. Pope. 

HEREN:  Made of hair. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEREOF:  Of this; concerning this; from this; hence. Hereof comes it that Prince Harry is valiant. Shak. 

HEREON:  On or upon this; hereupon. 

HEREOUT:  Out of this. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HERESIARCH:  A leader in heresy; the chief of a sect of heretics. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

HERESIARCHY:  A chief or great heresy. [R.] The book itself [the Alcoran] consists of heresiarchies against our blessed Savior. Sir T. Herbert. 

HERESIOGRAPHER:  One who writes on heresies. 

HERESIOGRAPHY:  A treatise on heresy. 

HERESY:  Religious opinion opposed to the authorized doctrinal standards of any particular church, especially when tending to promote schism or separation; lack of orthodox or sound belief; rejection of, or erroneous belief in regard to, some fundamental religious doctrine or truth; heterodoxy. Doubts 'mongst divines, and difference of texts, From whence arise diversity of sects, And hateful heresies by God abhor'd. Spenser. Deluded people! that do not consider that the greatest heresy in the world is a wicked life. Tillotson.  3. (Law)  An offense against Christianity, consisting in a denial of some essential doctrine, which denial is publicly avowed, and obstinately maintained. A second offense is that of heresy, which consists not in a total denial of Christianity, but of some its essential doctrines, publicly and obstinately avowed. Blackstone.  Note: "When I call dueling, and similar aberrations of honor, a moral heresy, I refer to the force of the Greek Coleridge. 

HERETIC:  One who having made a profession of Christian belief, deliberately and pertinaciously refuses to believe one or more of the articles of faith "determined by the authority of the universal church." Addis & Arnold.  Syn.  -- Heretic, Schismatic, Sectarian. A heretic is one whose errors are doctrinal, and usually of a malignant character, tending to subvert the true faith. A schismatic is one who creates a schism, or division in the church, on points of faith, discipline, practice, etc., usually for the sake of personal aggrandizement. A sectarian is one who originates or is an ardent adherent and advocate of a sect, or distinct organization, which separates from the main body of believers. 

HERETICAL:  Containing heresy; of the nature of, or characterized by, heresy. 

HERETICALLY:  In an heretical manner. 

HERETICATE:  To decide to be heresy or a heretic; to denounce as a heretic or heretical. Bp. Hall. And let no one be minded, on the score of my neoterism, to hereticate me. Fitzed. Hall. 

HERETIFICATION:  The act of hereticating or pronouncing heretical. London Times. 

HERETO:  To this; hereunto. Hooker.  HERETOCH; HERETOG Her"e*toch, Her"e*tog, n. Etym: [AS. heretoga, heretoha; here army + teón to draw, lead; akin to OS. heritogo, OHG. herizogo, G. herzog duke.] (AS. Antiq.)  The leader or commander of an army; also, a marshal. Blackstone. 

HERETOFORE:  Up to this time; hitherto; before; in time past. Shak. 

HEREUNTO:  Unto this; up to this time; hereto. 

HEREUPON:  On this; hereon. 

HEREWITH:  With this. 

HERIE:  To praise; to worship. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HERIOT:  Formerly, a payment or tribute of arms or military accouterments, or the best beast, or chattel, due to the lord on the death of a tenant; in modern use, a customary tribute of goods or chattels to the lord of the fee, paid on the decease of a tenant. Blackstone. Bouvier. Heriot custom, a heriot depending on usage.  -- Heriot service (Law), a heriot due by reservation in a grant or lease of lands. Spelman. Blackstone. 

HERIOTABLE:  Subject to the payment of a heriot. Burn. 

HERISSON:  A beam or bar armed with iron spikes, and turning on a pivot; - - used to block up a passage. 

HERITABILITY:  The state of being heritable. 

HERITAGE:  A possession; the Israelites, as God's chosen people; also, a flock under pastoral charge. Joel iii. 2. 1 Peter v. 3. 

HERITANCE:  Heritage; inheritance. [R.] Robbing their children of the heritance Their fathers handed down Southey. 

HERITOR:  A proprietor or landholder in a parish. [Scot.] 

HERL:  Same as Harl, 2.  HERLING; HIRLING Her"ling, Hir"ling (, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)  The young of the sea trout. [Prov. Eng.] 

HERMA:  See Hermes,  2. 

HERMAPHRODEITY:  Hermaphrodism. B. Jonson. 

HERMAPHRODISM:  See Hermaphroditism. 

HERMAPHRODITE:  An individual which has the attributes of both male and female, or which unites in itself the two sexes; an animal or plant having the parts of generation of both sexes, as when a flower contains both the stamens and pistil within the same calyx, or on the same receptacle. In some cases reproduction may take place without the union of the distinct individuals. In the animal kingdom true hermaphrodites are found only among the invertebrates. See Illust. in Appendix, under Helminths. 

HERMAPHRODITE:  Including, or being of, both sexes; as, an hermaphrodite animal or flower. Hermaphrodite brig. (Naut.) See under Brig. Totten.  HERMAPHRODITIC; HERMAPHRODITICAL Her*maph`ro*dit"ic, Her*maph`ro*dit"ic*al, a. (Biol.)  Partaking of the characteristics of both sexes; characterized by hermaphroditism.  -- Her*maph`ro*dit"ic*al*ly, adv. 

HERMAPHRODITISM:  The union of the two sexes in the same individual, or the combination of some of their characteristics or organs in one individual.  HERMENEUTIC; HERMENEUTICAL Her`me*neu"tic, Her`me*neu"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. herméneutique.]  Unfolding the signification; of or pertaining to interpretation; exegetical; explanatory; as, hermeneutic theology, or the art of expounding the Scriptures; a hermeneutic phrase. 

HERMENEUTICALLY:  According to the principles of interpretation; as, a verse of Scripture was examined hermeneutically. 

HERMENEUTICS:  The science of interpretation and explanation; exegesis; esp., that branch of theology which defines the laws whereby the meaning of the Scriptures is to be ascertained. Schaff-Herzog Encyc. 

HERMES:  See Mercury.  Note: Hermes Trismegistus Etym: [Gr. 'Ermh^s trisme`gistos, lit., Hermes thrice greatest] was a late name of Hermes, especially as identified with the Egyptian god Thoth. He was the fabled inventor of astrology and alchemy.  2. (Archæology)  Originally, a boundary stone dedicated to Hermes as the god of boundaries, and therefore bearing in some cases a head, or head and shoulders, placed upon a quadrangular pillar whose height is that of the body belonging to the head, sometimes having feet or other parts of the body sculptured upon it. These figures, though often representing Hermes, were used for other divinities, and even, in later times, for portraits of human beings. Called also herma. See Terminal statue, under Terminal.  HERMETIC; HERMETICAL Her*met"ic, Her*met"ic*al, a. Etym: [F. hermétique. See Note under Hermes, 1.]  1. Of, pertaining to, or taught by, Hermes Trismegistus; as, hermetic philosophy. Hence: Alchemical; chemic. "Delusions of the hermetic art." Burke. The alchemists, as the people were called who tried to make gold, considered themselves followers of Hermes, and often called themselves Hermetic philosophers. A. B. Buckley.  2. Of or pertaining to the system which explains the causes of diseases and the operations of medicine on the principles of the hermetic philosophy, and which made much use, as a remedy, of an alkali and an acid; as, hermetic medicine.  3. Made perfectly close or air-tight by fusion, so that no gas or spirit can enter or escape; as, an hermetic seal. See Note under Hermetically. Hermetic art, alchemy.  -- Hermetic books. (a) Books of the Egyptians, which treat of astrology. (b) Books which treat of universal principles, of the nature and orders of celestial beings, of medicine, and other topics. 

HERMITAGE:  A celebrated French wine, both white and red, of the Department of Drôme. 

HERMITARY:  A cell annexed to an abbey, for the use of a hermit. Howell. 

HERMITESS:  A female hermit. Coleridge. 

HERMITICAL:  Pertaining to, or suited for, a hermit. Coventry. 

HERMODACTYL:  A heart-shaped bulbous root, about the size of a finger, brought from Turkey, formerly used as a cathartic. 

HERMOGENIAN:  A disciple of Hermogenes, and heretical teacher who lived in Africa near the close of the second century. He ha 

HERN:  A heron; esp., the common European heron. "A stately hern." Trench. 

HERNANI:  A thin silk or woolen goods, for women's dresses, woven in various styles and colors. 

HERNE:  A corner. [Obs.] Lurking in hernes and in lanes blind. Chaucer. 

HERNIA:  A protrusion, consisting of an organ or part which has escaped from its natural cavity, and projects through some natural or accidental opening in the walls of the latter; as, hernia of the brain, of the lung, or of the bowels. Hernia of the abdominal viscera in most common. Called also rupture. Strangulated hernia, a hernia so tightly compressed in some part of the channel through which it has been protruded as to arrest its circulation, and produce swelling of the protruded part. It may occur in recent or chronic hernia, but is more common in the latter. 

HERNIAL:  Of, or connected with, hernia. 

HERNIOTOMY:  A cutting for the cure or relief of hernia; celotomy. 

HERNSHAW:  Heronshaw. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HERO:  An illustrious man, supposed to be exalted, after death, to a place among the gods; a demigod, as Hercules.  2. A man of distinguished valor or enterprise in danger, or fortitude in suffering; a prominent or central personage in any remarkable action or event; hence, a great or illustrious person. Each man is a hero and oracle to somebody. Emerson.  3. The principal personage in a poem, story, and the like, or the person who has the principal share in the transactions related; as Achilles in the Iliad, Ulysses in the Odyssey, and Æneas in the Æneid. The shining quality of an epic hero. Dryden. Hero worship, extravagant admiration for great men, likened to the ancient worship of heroes. Hero worship exists, has existed, and will forever exist, universally among mankind. Carlyle. 

HERODIAN:  One of a party among the Jews, composed of partisans of Herod of Galilee. They joined with the Pharisees against Christ. 

HERODIONES:  A division of wading birds, including the herons, storks, and allied forms. Called also Herodii.  -- He*ro`di*o"nine, a. 

HEROESS:  A heroine. [Obs.] Dryden. 

HEROIC:  Larger than life size, but smaller than colossal; -- said of the representation of a human figure. Heroic Age, the age when the heroes, or those called the children of the gods, are supposed to have lived.  -- Heroic poetry, that which celebrates the deeds of a hero; epic poetry.  -- Heroic treatment or remedies (Med.), treatment or remedies of a severe character, suited to a desperate case.  -- Heroic verse (Pros.), the verse of heroic or epic poetry, being in English, German, and Italian the iambic of ten syllables; in French the iambic of twelve syllables; and in classic poetry the hexameter.  Syn.  -- Brave; intrepid; courageous; daring; valiant; bold; gallant; fearless; enterprising; noble; magnanimous; illustrious. 

HEROICAL:  Heroic. [R.] Spectator.  -- He*ro"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- He*ro"ic*al*ness, n. 

HEROICNESS:  Heroism. [R.] W. Montagu.  HEROICOMIC; HEROICOMICAL He`ro*i*com"ic, He`ro*i*com"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. héroïcomigue. See Heroic, and Comic.]  Combining the heroic and the ludicrous; denoting high burlesque; as, a heroicomic poem. 

HEROISM:  The qualities characteristic of a hero, as courage, bravery, fortitude, unselfishness, etc.; the display of such qualities. Heroism is the self-devotion of genius manifesting itself in action. Hare.  Syn.  -- Heroism, Courage, Fortitude, Bravery, Valor, Intrepidity, Gallantry. Courage is generic, denoting fearlessness or defiance of danger; fortitude is passive courage, the habit of bearing up nobly under trials, danger, and sufferings; bravery is courage displayed in daring acts; valor is courage in battle or other conflicts with living opponents; intrepidity is firm courage, which shrinks not amid the most appalling dangers; gallantry is adventurous courage, dashing into the thickest of the fight. Heroism may call into exercise all these modifications of courage. It is a contempt of danger, not from ignorance or inconsiderate levity, but from a noble devotion to some great cause, and a just confidence of being able to meet danger in the spirit of such a cause. Cf. Courage.  HEROLOGIST; HEROELOGIST He`röl"o*gist, n. Etym: [Gr.  One who treats of heroes. [R.] T. Warton. 

HERON:  Any wading bird of the genus Ardea and allied genera, of the family Ardeidæ. The herons have a long, sharp bill, and long legs and toes, with the claw of the middle toe toothed. The common European heron (Ardea cinerea) is remarkable for its directly ascending flight, and was formerly hunted with the larger falcons.  Note: There are several common American species; as, the great blue heron (Ardea herodias); the little blue (A. coerulea); the green (A. virescens); the snowy (A. candidissima); the night heron or qua-bird (Nycticorax nycticorax). The plumed herons are called egrets. Heron's bill (Bot.), a plant of the genus Erodium; -- so called from the fancied resemblance of the fruit to the head and beak of the heron. 

HERONER:  A hawk used in hunting the heron. "Heroner and falcon." Chaucer. 

HERONRY:  A place where herons breed. 

HERONSEW:  A heronshaw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HERONSHAW:  A heron. [Written variously hernshaw, harnsey, etc.] 

HEROSHIP:  The character or personality of a hero. "Three years of heroship." Cowper. 

HERPES:  An eruption of the skin, taking various names, according to its form, or the part affected; especially, an eruption of vesicles in small distinct clusters, accompanied with itching or tingling, including shingles, ringworm, and the like; -- so called from its tendency to creep or spread from one part of the skin to another. 

HERPETIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the herpes; partaking of the nature of herpes; as, herpetic eruptions. 

HERPETISM:  See Dartrous diathesis, under Dartrous.  HERPETOLOGIC; HERPETOLOGICAL Her*pet`o*log"ic, Her*pet`o*log"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to herpetology. 

HERPETOLOGIST:  One versed in herpetology, or the natural history of reptiles. 

HERPETOLOGY:  The natural history of reptiles; that branch of zoölogy which relates to reptiles, including their structure, classification, and habits. 

HERPETOTOMIST:  One who dissects, or studies the anatomy of, reptiles. 

HERPETOTOMY:  The anatomy or dissection of reptiles. 

HERR:  A title of respect given to gentlemen in Germany, equivalent to the English Mister. 

HERRENHAUS:  See Legislature, Austria, Prussia. 

HERRING:  One of various species of fishes of the genus Clupea, and allied genera, esp. the common round or English herring (C. harengus) of the North Atlantic. Herrings move in vast schools, coming in spring to the shores of Europe and America, where they are salted and smoked in great quantities. Herring gull (Zoöl.), a large gull which feeds in part upon herrings; esp., Larus argentatus in America, and L. cachinnans in England. See Gull.  -- Herring hog (Zoöl.), the common porpoise.  -- King of the herrings. (Zoöl.) (a) The chimæra (C. monstrosa) which follows the schools of herring. See Chimæra. (b) The opah. 

HERRINGBONE:  Pertaining to, or like, the spine of a herring; especially, characterized by an arrangement of work in rows of parallel lines, which in the alternate rows slope in different directions. Herringbone stitch, a kind of cross-stitch in needlework, chiefly used in flannel. Simmonds. 

HERRNHUTER:  One of the Moravians; -- so called from the settlement of Herrnhut (the Lord's watch) made, about 1722, by the Moravians at the invitation of Nicholas Lewis, count of Zinzendorf, upon his estate in the circle of Bautzen. 

HERS:  See the Note under Her, pr. 

HERSAL:  Rehearsal. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HERSCHEL:  See Uranus. 

HERSCHELIAN:  Of or relating to Sir William Herschel; as, the Herschelian telescope. 

HERSE:  A kind of gate or portcullis, having iron bars, like a harrow, studded with iron spikes. It is hung above gateways so that it may be quickly lowered, to impede the advance of an enemy. Farrow.  2. See Hearse, a carriage for the dead.  3. A funeral ceremonial. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HERSE:  Same as Hearse, v. t. Chapman. 

HERSILLON:  A beam with projecting spikes, used to make a breach impassable. 

HERT:  A hart. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HERTE:  A heart. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HERTELY:  Hearty; heartily. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HERTZIAN:  Of or pert. to the German physicist Heinrich Hertz.  Hertzian telegraphy, telegraphy by means of the Hertzian waves; wireless telegraphy. -- H. waves, electric waves; -- so called because Hertz was the first to investigate them systematically. His apparatus consisted essentially in an oscillator for producing the waves, and a resonator for detecting them. The waves were found to have the same velocity as light, and to undergo reflection, refraction, and polarization. 

HERY:  To worship; to glorify; to praise. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

HERZOG:  A member of the highest rank of nobility in Germany and Austria, corresponding to the British duke. 

HESITANTLY:  With hesitancy or doubt. 

HESITATE:  To utter with hesitation or to intimate by a reluctant manner. [Poetic & R.] Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike. Pope. 

HESITATINGLY:  With hesitation or doubt. 

HESITATIVE:  Showing, or characterized by, hesitation. [He said] in his mild, hesitative way. R. D. Blackmore. 

HESITATORY:  Hesitating. R. North. 

HESP:  A measure of two hanks of linen thread. [Scot.] [Written also hasp.] Knight. 

HESPER:  The evening; Hesperus. 

HESPERETIN:  A white, crystalline substance having a sweetish taste, obtained by the decomposition of hesperidin, and regarded as a complex derivative of caffeic acid. 

HESPERIAN:  Western; being in the west; occidental. [Poetic] Milton. 

HESPERIAN:  A native or an inhabitant of a western country. [Poetic] J. Barlow. 

HESPERIAN:  Of or pertaining to a family of butterflies called Hesperidæ, or skippers.  -- n.  Any one of the numerous species of Hesperidæ; a skipper. 

HESPERID:  Same as 3d Hesperian. 

HESPERIDENE:  An isomeric variety of terpene from orange oil. 

HESPERIDES:  The daughters of Hesperus, or Night (brother of Atlas), and fabled possessors of a garden producing golden apples, in Africa, at the western extremity of the known world. To slay the guarding dragon and get some of these apples was one of the labors of Hercules. Called also Atlantides.  2. The garden producing the golden apples. It not love a Hercules, Still climbing trees in the Hesperides Shak. 

HESPERIDIN:  A glucoside found in ripe and unripe fruit (as the orange), and extracted as a white crystalline substance. 

HESPERIDIUM:  A large berry with a thick rind, as a lemon or an orange. 

HESPERORNIS:  A genus of large, extinct, wingless birds from the Cretaceous deposits of Kansas, belonging to the Odontornithes. They had teeth, and were essentially carnivorous swimming ostriches. Several species are known. See Illust. in Append. 

HESSIAN:  Of or relating to Hesse, in Germany, or to the Hessians. Hessian boots, or Hessians, boot of a kind worn in England, in the early part of the nineteenth century, tasseled in front. Thackeray.  -- Hessian cloth, or Hessians, a coarse hempen cloth for sacking.  -- Hessian crucible. See under Crucible.  -- Hessian fly (Zoöl.), a small dipterous fly or midge (Cecidomyia destructor). Its larvæ live between the base of the lower leaves and the stalk of wheat, and are very destructive to young wheat; -- so called from the erroneous idea that it was brought into America by the Hessian troops, during the Revolution. 

HESSIAN:  See Hessian boots and cloth, under Hessian, a. 

HESSITE:  A lead-gray sectile mineral. It is a telluride of silver. 

HEST:  Command; precept; injunction. [Archaic] See Behest. "At thy hest." Shak. Let him that yields obey the victor's hest. Fairfax. Yet I thy hest will all perform, at full. Tennyson.  HESTERN; HESTERNAL Hes"tern, Hes*ter"nal, a. Etym: [L. hesternus; akin to heri yesterday.]  Pertaining to yesterday. [Obs.] See Yester, a. Ld. Lytton. 

HESYCHAST:  One of a mystical sect of the Greek Church in the fourteenth century; a quietist. Brande & C.  HETAERA; HETAIRA He*tæ"ra, He*tai"ra, n.; pl. -ræ (#). [NL. See Hetairism.] (Gr. Antiq.)  A female paramour; a mistress, concubine, or harlot. -- He*tæ"ric, He*tai"ric (#), a.  HETAIRISM; HETARISM He*tair"ism, Het"a*rism, n. Etym: [Gr.  A supposed primitive state of society, in which all the women of a tribe were held in common. H. Spencer.  -- Het`a*ris"tic, a. 

HETCHEL:  Same as Hatchel. 

HETE:  Variant of Hote. [Obs.] But one avow to greate God I hete. Chaucer. 

HETERACANTH:  Having the spines of the dorsal fin unsymmetrical, or thickened alternately on the right and left sides. 

HETERARCHY:  The government of an alien. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

HETERAUXESIS:  Unequal growth of a cell, or of a part of a plant.  HETERO- Het"er*o-. Etym: [Gr. "e`teros other.]  A combining form signifying other, other than usual, different; as, heteroclite, heterodox, heterogamous. 

HETEROCARPISM:  The power of producing two kinds of reproductive bodies, as in Amphicarpæa, in which besides the usual pods, there are others underground. 

HETEROCARPOUS:  Characterized by heterocarpism. 

HETEROCEPHALOUS:  Bearing two kinds of heads or capitula; -- said of certain composite plants. 

HETEROCERA:  A division of Lepidoptera, including the moths, and hawk moths, which have the antennæ variable in form. 

HETEROCERCAL:  Having the vertebral column evidently continued into the upper lobe of the tail, which is usually longer than the lower one, as in sharks. 

HETEROCERCY:  Unequal development of the tail lobes of fishes; the possession of a heterocercal tail. 

HETEROCHROMOUS:  Having the central florets of a flower head of a different color from those of the circumference.  HETEROCHRONISM; HETEROCHRONY Het`er*och"ro*nism, Het`er*och"ro*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)  In evolution, a deviation from the typical sequence in the formation of organs or parts. 

HETEROCLITE:  Deviating from ordinary forms or rules; irregular; anomalous; abnormal. 

HETEROCLITE:  A word which is irregular or anomalous either in declension or conjugation, or which deviates from ordinary forms of inflection in words of a like kind; especially, a noun which is irregular in declension.  2. Any thing or person deviating from the common rule, or from common forms. Howell.  HETEROCLITIC; HETEROCLITICAL Het`er*o*clit"ic, Het`er*o*clit"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Heteroclite.]  Deviating from ordinary forms or rules; irregular; anomalous; abnormal. 

HETEROCLITOUS:  Heteroclitic. [Obs.] 

HETEROCYST:  A cell larger than the others, and of different appearance, occurring in certain algæ related to nostoc. 

HETERODACTYL:  Heterodactylous.  -- n.  One of the Heterodactylæ. 

HETERODACTYLAE:  A group of birds including the trogons. 

HETERODACTYLOUS:  Having the first and second toes turned backward, as in the trogons. 

HETERODONT:  Having the teeth differentiated into incisors, canines, and molars, as in man; -- opposed to homodont. 

HETERODONT:  Any animal with heterodont dentition. 

HETERODOX:  An opinion opposed to some accepted standard. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

HETERODOXAL:  Not orthodox. Howell. 

HETERODOXY:  An opinion or doctrine, or a system of doctrines, contrary to some established standard of faith, as the Scriptures, the creed or standards of a church, etc.; heresy. Bp. Bull. 

HETERODROMOUS:  Having spirals of changing direction. Gray.  2. (Mech.)  Moving in opposite directions; -- said of a lever, pulley, etc., in which the resistance and the actuating force are on opposite sides of the fulcrum or axis. 

HETEROECIOUS:  Passing through the different stages in its life history on an alternation of hosts, as the common wheat-rust fungus (Puccinia graminis), and certain other parasitic fungi; -- contrasted with autocious. -- Het`er*o"cism (#), n. 

HETEROGAMY:  The process of fertilization in plants by an indirect or circuitous method; -- opposed to orthogamy.  2. (Biol.)  That form of alternate generation in which two kinds of sexual generation, or a sexual and a parthenogenetic generation, alternate; -- in distinction from metagenesis, where sexual and asexual generations alternate. Claus & Sedgwick. 

HETEROGANGLIATE:  Having the ganglia of the nervous system unsymmetrically arranged; -- said of certain invertebrate animals. 

HETEROGENE:  Heterogenous. [Obs.] 

HETEROGENEAL:  Heterogeneous. 

HETEROGENEITY:  The state of being heterogeneous; contrariety. The difference, indeed the heterogeneity, of the two may be felt. Coleridge. 

HETEROGENEOUS:  Differing in kind; having unlike qualities; possessed of different characteristics; dissimilar; -- opposed to homogeneous, and said of two or more connected objects, or of a conglomerate mass, considered in respect to the parts of which it is made up.  -- Het`er*o*ge"ne*ous*ly, adv.  -- Het`er*o*ge"ne*ous*ness, n. Heterogeneous nouns (Gram.), nouns having different genders in the singular and plural numbers; as, hic locus, of the masculine gender in the singular, and hi loci and hæc loca, both masculine and neuter in the plural; hoc cælum, neuter in the singular; hi cæli, masculine in the plural.  -- Heterogeneous quantities (Math.), such quantities as are incapable of being compared together in respect to magnitude, and surfaces and solids.  -- Heterogeneous surds (Math.), surds having different radical signs. 

HETEROGENESIS:  Spontaneous generation, so called.  2. (Biol.)  That method of reproduction in which the successive generations differ from each other, the parent organism producing offspring different in habit and structure from itself, the original form, however, reappearing after one or more generations; -- opposed to homogenesis, or gamogenesis. 

HETEROGENETIC:  Relating to heterogenesis; as, heterogenetic transformations. 

HETEROGENIST:  One who believes in the theory of spontaneous generation, or heterogenesis. Bastian. 

HETEROGENOUS:  Of or pertaining to heterogenesis; heterogenetic. 

HETEROGENY:  Heterogenesis. 

HETEROGONOUS:  Characterized by heterogony.  -- Het`er*og"o*nous*ly, adv. 

HETEROGONY:  The condition of having two or more kinds of flowers, different as to the length of their stamens and pistils. 

HETEROGRAPHIC:  Employing the same letters to represent different sounds in different words or syllables; -- said of methods of spelling; as, the ordinary English orthography is heterographic. 

HETEROGRAPHY:  That method of spelling in which the same letters represent different sounds in different words, as in the ordinary English orthography; e. g., g in get and in ginger. 

HETEROGYNOUS:  Having females very unlike the males in form and structure; -- as certain insects, the males of which are winged, and the females wingless. 

HETEROLOGOUS:  Characterized by heterology; consisting of different elements, or of like elements in different proportions; different; -- opposed to homologous; as, heterologous organs. Heterologous stimulus. (Physiol.) See under Stimulus.  -- Heterologous tumor (Med.), a tumor differing in structure from the normal tissues of the body. 

HETEROLOGY:  The absence of correspondence, or relation, in type of structure; lack of analogy between parts, owing to their being composed of different elements, or of like elements in different proportions; variation in structure from the normal form; -- opposed to homology.  2. (Chem.)  The connection or relation of bodies which have partial identity of composition, but different characteristics and properties; the relation existing between derivatives of the same substance, or of the analogous members of different series; as, ethane, ethyl alcohol, acetic aldehyde, and acetic acid are in heterology with each other, though each in at the same time a member of a distinct homologous series. Cf. Homology. 

HETEROMERA:  A division of Coleoptera, having heteromerous tarsi. 

HETEROMEROUS:  Unrelated in chemical composition, though similar or indentical in certain other respects; as, borax and augite are homoemorphous, but heteromerous.  2. (Bot.)  With the parts not corresponding in number.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) Having the femoral artery developed as the principal artery of the leg; -- said of certain birds, as the cotingas and pipras. (b) Having five tarsal joints in the anterior and middle legs, but only four in the posterior pair, as the blister beetles and oil beetles. 

HETEROMORPHIC:  Deviating from the normal, perfect, or mature form; having different forms at different stages of existence, or in different individuals of the same species; -- applied especially to insects in which there is a wide difference of form between the larva and the adult, and to plants having more than one form of flower.  HETEROMORPHISM; HETEROMORPHY Het`er*o*mor"phism, Het`er*o*mor"phy, n. (Biol.)  The state or quality of being heteromorphic. 

HETEROMORPHOUS:  Heteromorphic. 

HETEROMYARIA:  A division of bivalve shells, including the marine mussels, in which the two adductor muscles are very unequal. See Dreissena, and Illust. under Byssus. 

HETERONEREIS:  A free-swimming, dimorphic, sexual form of certain species of Nereis.  Note: In this state the head and its appendages are changed in form, the eyes become very large; more or less of the parapodia are highly modified by the development of finlike lobes, and branchial lamellæ, and their setæ become longer and bladelike. 

HETERONOMOUS:  Subject to the law of another. Krauth-Fleming. 

HETERONOMY:  A term applied by Kant to those laws which are imposed on us from without, or the violence done to us by our passions, wants, or desires. Krauth-Fleming. 

HETERONYM:  That which is heteronymous; a thing having a different name or designation from some other thing; -- opposed to homonym. 

HETERONYMOUS:  Having different names or designations; standing in opposite relations. J. Le Conte.  -- Het"er*on"y*mous*ly, adv. 

HETEROOUSIAN:  Having different essential qualities; of a different nature. 

HETEROOUSIAN:  One of those Arians who held that the Son was of a different substance from the Father. 

HETEROOUSIOUS:  See Heteroousian. 

HETEROPATHIC:  Of or pertaining to the method of heteropathy; allopathic. 

HETEROPATHY:  That mode of treating diseases, by which a morbid condition is removed by inducing an opposite morbid condition to supplant it; allopathy. 

HETEROPELMOUS:  Having each of the two flexor tendons of the toes bifid, the branches of one going to the first and second toes; those of the other, to the third and fourth toes. See Illust. in Append. 

HETEROPHAGI:  Altrices. 

HETEROPHEMIST:  One liable to the fault of heterophemy. 

HETEROPHEMY:  The unconscious saying, in speech or in writing, of that which one does not intend to say; -- frequently the very reverse of the thought which is present to consciousness. R. G. White. 

HETEROPHONY:  An abnormal state of the voice. Mayne. 

HETEROPHYLLOUS:  Having leaves of more than one shape on the same plant. 

HETEROPLASM:  An abnormal formation foreign to the economy, and composed of elements different from those are found in it in its normal condition. Dunglison. 

HETEROPLASTIC:  Producing a different type of organism; developing into a different form of tissue, as cartilage which develops into bone. Haeckel. 

HETEROPOD:  One of the Heteropoda.  -- a.  Heteropodous. 

HETEROPODA:  An order of pelagic Gastropoda, having the foot developed into a median fin. Some of the species are naked; others, as Carinaria and Atlanta, have thin glassy shells. 

HETEROPODOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Heteropoda. 

HETEROPTER:  One of the Heteroptera. 

HETEROPTERA:  A suborder of Hemiptera, in which the base of the anterior wings is thickened. See Hemiptera. 

HETEROPTICS:  False optics. Spectator. 

HETEROSCIAN:  One who lives either north or south of the tropics, as contrasted with one who lives on the other side of them; -- so called because at noon the shadows always fall in opposite directions (the one northward, the other southward). 

HETEROSIS:  A figure of speech by which one form of a noun, verb, or pronoun, and the like, is used for another, as in the sentence: "What is life to such as me" Aytoun. 

HETEROSOMATI:  An order of fishes, comprising the flounders, halibut, sole, etc., having the body and head asymmetrical, with both eyes on one side. Called also Heterosomata, Heterosomi.  HETEROSPORIC; HETEROSPOROUS Het`er*o*spor"ic, Het`er*o*spor"ous, a. Etym: [Hetero- + spore.] (Bot.)  Producing two kinds of spores unlike each other. 

HETEROSTYLED:  Having styles of two or more distinct forms or lengths. Darwin. 

HETEROSTYLISM:  The condition of being heterostyled. 

HETEROTACTOUS:  Relating to, or characterized by, heterotaxy. 

HETEROTAXY:  Variation in arrangement from that existing in a normal form; heterogenous arrangement or structure, as, in botany, the deviation in position of the organs of a plant, from the ordinary or typical arrangement.  HETEROTOPISM; HETEROTOPY Het`er*ot"o*pism, Het`er*ot"o*py, n. Etym: [Hetero- + Gr. hétérotopie.]  1. (Med.)  A deviation from the natural position; -- a term applied in the case of organs or growths which are abnormal in situation.  2. (Biol.)  A deviation from the natural position of parts, supposed to be effected in thousands of years, by the gradual displacement of germ cells. 

HETEROTRICHA:  A division of ciliated Infusoria, having fine cilia all over the body, and a circle of larger ones around the anterior end.  HETEROTROPAL; HETEROTROPOUS Het`er*ot"ro*pal, Het`er*ot"ro*pous (, a. Etym: [Gr. "etero`tropos turning another way; hétérotrope.] (Bot.)  Having the embryo or ovule oblique or transverse to the funiculus; amphitropous. Gray. 

HETHING:  Contempt; scorn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HETMAN:  A Cossack headman or general. The title of chief hetman is now held by the heir to the throne of Russia. 

HEUK:  Variant of Huke. [Obs.] 

HEULANDITE:  A mineral of the Zeolite family, often occurring in amygdaloid, in foliated masses, and also in monoclinic crystals with pearly luster on the cleavage face. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. 

HEURISTIC:  Serving to discover or find out. 

HEVED:  The head. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEW:  Destruction by cutting down. [Obs.] Of whom he makes such havoc and such hew. Spenser. 

HEWE:  A domestic servant; a retainer. [Obs.] "False homely hewe." Chaucer. 

HEWER:  One who hews. 

HEWHOLE:  The European green woodpecker. See Yaffle. 

HEWN:  A prefix or combining form, used to denote six, sixth, etc.; as, hexatomic, hexabasic. 

HEXABASIC:  Having six hydrogen atoms or six radicals capable of being replaced or saturated by bases; -- said of acids; as, mellitic acid is hexabasic. 

HEXACAPSULAR:  Having six capsules or seed vessels. 

HEXACHORD:  A series of six notes, with a semitone between the third and fourth, the other intervals being whole tones. 

HEXACID:  Having six atoms or radicals capable of being replaced by acids; hexatomic; hexavalent; -- said of bases; as, mannite is a hexacid base. 

HEXACTINELLID:  Having six-rayed spicules; belonging to the Hexactinellinæ. 

HEXACTINELLINE:  Belonging to the Hexactinellinæ, a group of sponges, having six-rayed siliceous spicules. 

HEXACTINIA:  The Anthozoa. 

HEXAD:  An atom whose valence is six, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, six monad atoms or radicals; as, sulphur is a hexad in sulphuric acid. Also used as an adjective. 

HEXADACTYLOUS:  Having six fingers or toes. 

HEXADE:  A series of six numbers. 

HEXADECANE:  See Hecdecane. 

HEXAGON:  A plane figure of six angles. Regular hexagon, a hexagon in which the angles are all equal, and the sides are also all equal. 

HEXAGONAL:  Having six sides and six angles; six-sided. Hexagonal system. (Crystal.) See under Crystallization. 

HEXAGONALLY:  In an hexagonal manner. 

HEXAGONY:  A hexagon. [Obs.] Bramhall. 

HEXAGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants having six pistils.  HEXAGYNIAN; HEXAGYNOUS Hex`a*gyn"i*an, Hex*ag"y*nous (, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hexagyne.] (Bot.)  Having six pistils. 

HEXAHEDRAL:  In the form of a hexahedron; having six sides or faces. 

HEXAHEDRON:  A solid body of six sides or faces. Regular hexahedron, a hexagon having six equal squares for its sides; a cube. 

HEXAMEROUS:  In six parts; in sixes. 

HEXAMETER:  A verse of six feet, the first four of which may be either dactyls or spondees, the fifth must regularly be a dactyl, and the sixth always a spondee. In this species of verse are composed the Iliad of Homer and the Æneid of Virgil. In English hexameters accent takes the place of quantity. Leaped like the | roe when he | hears in the | woodland the | voice of the | huntsman. Longfellow. Strongly it | bears us a- | long on | swelling and | limitless | billows, Nothing be- | fore and | nothing be- | hind but the | sky and the | ocean. Coleridge. 

HEXAMETER:  Having six metrical feet, especially dactyls and spondees. Holland.  HEXAMETRIC; HEXAMETRICAL Hex`a*met"ric, Hex`a*met"ric*al, a.  Consisting of six metrical feet. 

HEXAMETRIST:  One who writes in hexameters. "The Christian hexametrists." Milman. 

HEXANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having six stamens.  HEXANDRIAN; HEX-ANDROUS Hex*an"dri*an, Hex-an"drous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hexandre.] (Bot.)  Having six stamens. 

HEXANE:  Any one of five hydrocarbons, C6H14, of the paraffin series. They are colorless, volatile liquids, and are so called because the molecule has six carbon atoms. 

HEXANGULAR:  Having six angles or corners. 

HEXAPETALOUS:  Having six petals. 

HEXAPHYLLOUS:  Having six leaves or leaflets. 

HEXAPLA:  A collection of the Holy Scriptures in six languages or six versions in parallel columns; particularly, the edition of the Old Testament published by Origen, in the 3d century. 

HEXAPOD:  Having six feet.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  An animal having six feet; one of the Hexapoda. 

HEXAPODA:  The true, or six-legged, insects; insects other than myriapods and arachnids.  Note: The Hexapoda have the head, thorax, and abdomen differentiated, and are mostly winged. They have three pairs of mouth organs, viz., mandibles, maxillæ, and the second maxillæ or labial palpi; three pairs of thoracic legs; and abdominal legs, which are present only in some of the lowest forms, and in the larval state of some of the higher ones. Many (the Metabola) undergo a complete metamorphosis, having larvæ (known as maggots, grubs, caterpillars) very unlike the adult, and pass through a quiescent pupa state in which no food is taken; others (the Hemimetabola) have larvæ much like the adult, expert in lacking wings, and an active pupa, in which rudimentary wings appear. See Insecta. The Hexapoda are divided into several orders. 

HEXAPODOUS:  Having six feet; belonging to the Hexapoda. 

HEXAPTEROUS:  Having six processes. Gray.  HEXASTICH; HEXASTICHON Hex"a*stich, Hex*as"ti*chon, n. Etym: [L. hexastichus of six rows, lines, or verses, Gr. "e`x six + sti`chos row, line, verse.]  A poem consisting of six verses or lines. 

HEXASTYLE:  Having six columns in front; -- said of a portico or temple.  -- n.  A hexastyle portico or temple. 

HEXATEUCH:  The first six books of the Old Testament. 

HEXAVALENT:  Having a valence of six; -- said of hexads. 

HEXDECYL:  The essential radical, C16H33, of hecdecane. 

HEXDECYLIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, hexdecyl or hecdecane; as, hexdecylic alcohol. 

HEXEIKOSANE:  A hydrocarbon, C26H54, resembling paraffine; -- so called because each molecule has twenty-six atoms of carbon. [Written also hexacosane.] 

HEXENE:  Same as Hexylene. 

HEXICOLOGY:  The science which treats of the complex relations of living creatures to other organisms, and to their surrounding conditions generally. St. George Mivart. 

HEXINE:  A hydrocarbon, C6H10, of the acetylene series, obtained artificially as a colorless, volatile, pungent liquid; -- called also hexoylene. 

HEXOCTAHEDRON:  A solid having forty-eight equal triangular faces. 

HEXOIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, hexane; as, hexoic acid. 

HEXONE:  A liquid hydrocarbon, C6H8, of the valylene series, obtained from distillation products of certain fats and gums. 

HEXOSE:  Any member of a group of sugars containing six carbon atoms in the molecule. Some are widely distributed in nature, esp. in ripe fruits. 

HEXYL:  A compound radical, C6H13, regarded as the essential residue of hexane, and a related series of compounds. 

HEXYLENE:  A colorless, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H12, of the ethylene series, produced artificially, and found as a natural product of distillation of certain coals; also, any one several isomers of hexylene proper. Called also hexene. 

HEXYLIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, hexyl or hexane; as, hexylic alcohol. 

HEY:  High. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEYDAY:  An expression of frolic and exultation, and sometimes of wonder. B. Jonson. 

HEYDAY:  The time of triumph and exultation; hence, joy, high spirits, frolicsomeness; wildness. The heyday in the blood is tame. Shak. In the heyday of their victories. J. H. Newman. 

HEYDEGUY:  A kind of country-dance or round. [Obs.] Spenser.  HEYH; HEYGH Heyh, Heygh (, a.  High. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEYNE:  A wretch; a rascal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HEYTEN:  Hence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HIATION:  Act of gaping. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

HIATUS:  The concurrence of two vowels in two successive words or syllables. Pope. 

HIBERNACLE:  That which serves for protection or shelter in winter; winter quarters; as, the hibernacle of an animal or a plant. Martyn. 

HIBERNACULUM:  A winter bud, in which the rudimentary foliage or flower, as of most trees and shrubs in the temperate zone, is protected by closely overlapping scales.  2. (Zoöl.)  A little case in which certain insects pass the winter.  3. Winter home or abiding place. J. Burroughs. 

HIBERNAL:  Belonging or relating to winter; wintry; winterish. Sir T. Browne. 

HIBERNATE:  To winter; to pass the season of winter in close quarters, in a torpid or lethargic state, as certain mammals, reptiles, and insects. Inclination would lead me to hibernate, during half the year, in this uncomfortable climate of Great Britain. Southey. 

HIBERNATION:  The act or state of hibernating. Evelyn. 

HIBERNIAN:  Of or pertaining to Hibernia, now Ireland; Irish.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Ireland.  HIBERNICISM; HIBERNIANISM Hi*ber"ni*cism, Hi*ber"ni*an*ism, n.  An idiom or mode of speech peculiar to the Irish. Todd.  HIBERNO-CELTIC Hi*ber"no-Celt"ic, n.  The native language of the Irish; that branch of the Celtic languages spoken by the natives of Ireland. Also adj. 

HIBISCUS:  A genus of plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees), some species of which have large, showy flowers. Some species are cultivated in India for their fiber, which is used as a substitute for hemp. See Althea, Hollyhock, and Manoe.  HICCIUS DOCTIUS Hic"ci*us doc"ti*us. Etym: [Corrupted fr. L. hic est doctus this is a learned man.]  A juggler. [Cant] hocus pocus Hudibras. 

HICCOUGH:  A modified respiratory movement; a spasmodic inspiration, consisting of a sudden contraction of the diaphragm, accompanied with closure of the glottis, so that further entrance of air is prevented, while the impulse of the column of air entering and striking upon the closed glottis produces a sound, or hiccough. [Written also hickup or hiccup.] 

HICCOUGH:  To have a hiccough or hiccoughs. 

HICKORY:  An American tree of the genus Carya, of which there are several species. The shagbark is the C. alba, and has a very rough bark; it affords the hickory nut of the markets. The pignut, or brown hickory, is the C. glabra. The swamp hickory is C. amara, having a nut whose shell is very thin and the kernel bitter. Hickory shad. (Zoöl.) (a) The mattowacca, or fall herring. (b) The gizzard shad. 

HICKSITE:  A member or follower of the "liberal" party, headed by Elias Hicks, which, because of a change of views respecting the divinity of Christ and the Atonement, seceded from the conservative portion of the Society of Friends in the United States, in 1827. 

HICKUP:  See Hiccough.  HICKWALL; HICKWAY Hick"wall`, Hick"way`, n. Etym: [OE., also hyghwhele, highawe.]  The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor) of Europe. [Prov. Eng.] 

HID:  imp. & p. p. of Hide. See Hidden. 

HIDAGE:  A tax formerly paid to the kings of England for every hide of land. [Written also hydage.] 

HIDALGO:  A title, denoting a Spanish nobleman of the lower class. 

HIDDEN:  from Hide. Concealed; put out of view; secret; not known; mysterious. Hidden fifths or octaves (Mus.), consecutive fifths or octaves, not sounded, but suggested or implied in the parallel motion of two parts towards a fifth or an octave.  Syn.  -- Hidden, Secret, Covert. Hidden may denote either known to on one; as, a hidden disease; or intentionally concealed; as, a hidden purpose of revenge. Secret denotes that the thing is known only to the party or parties concerned; as, a secret conspiracy. Covert literally denotes what is not open or avowed; as, a covert plan; but is often applied to what we mean shall be understood, without openly expressing it; as, a covert allusion. Secret is opposed to known, and hidden to revealed. Bring to light the hidden things of darkness. 1 Cor. iv. 5. My heart, which by a secret harmony Still moves with thine, joined in connection sweet. Milton. By what best way, Whether of open war, or covert guile, We now debate. Milton. 

HIDDENITE:  An emerald-green variety of spodumene found in North Carolina; lithia emerald, -- used as a gem. 

HIDDENLY:  In a hidden manner. 

HIDE:  To lie concealed; to keep one's self out of view; to be withdrawn from sight or observation. Bred to disguise, in public 'tis you hide. Pope. Hide and seek, a play of children, in which some hide themselves, and others seek them. Swift. 

HIDE:  To flog; to whip. [Prov. Eng. & Low, U. S.] 

HIDEBOUND:  Having the bark so close and constricting that it impedes the growth; -- said of trees. Bacon.  3. Untractable; bigoted; obstinately and blindly or stupidly conservative. Milton. Carlyle.  4. Niggardly; penurious. [Obs.] Quarles. 

HIDER:  One who hides or conceals. 

HIDING:  The act of hiding or concealing, or of withholding from view or knowledge; concealment. There was the hiding of his power. Hab. iii. 4. 

HIDING:  A flogging. [Colloq.] Charles Reade. 

HIDROSIS:  Excretion of sweat; perspiration.  2.  (Med.) Excessive perspiration; also, any skin disease characterized by abnormal perspiration. 

HIDROTIC:  Causing perspiration; diaphoretic or sudorific. 

HIDROTIC:  A medicine that causes perspiration; a diaphoretic or a sudorific. 

HIE:  To hasten; to go in haste; -- also often with the reciprocal pronoun. [Rare, except in poetry] "My husband hies him home." Shak. The youth, returning to his mistress, hies. Dryden. 

HIE:  Haste; diligence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HIEMS:  Winter. Shak. 

HIERAPICRA:  A warming cathartic medicine, made of aloes and canella bark. Dunglison. 

HIERARCH:  One who has high and controlling authority in sacred things; the chief of a sacred order; as, princely hierarchs. Milton.  HIERARCHAL; HIERARCHIC Hi"er*arch`al, Hi`er*arch"ic, a.  Pertaining to a hierarch. "The great hierarchal standard." Milton. 

HIERARCHICAL:  Pertaining to a hierarchy.  -- Hi`er*arch`ic*al*ly, adv. 

HIERARCHISM:  The principles or authority of a hierarchy. The more dominant hierarchism of the West. Milman. 

HIERATIC:  Consecrated to sacred uses; sacerdotal; pertaining to priests. Hieratic character, a mode of ancient Egyptian writing; a modified form of hieroglyphics, tending toward a cursive hand and formerly supposed to be the sacerdotal character, as the demotic was supposed to be that of the people. It was a false notion of the Greeks that of the three kinds of writing used by the Egyptians, two -- for that reason called hieroglyphic and hieratic -- were employed only for sacred, while the third, the demotic, was employed for secular, purposes. No such distinction is discoverable on the more ancient Egyptian monuments; bur we retain the old names founded on misapprehension. W. H. Ward (Johnson's Cyc.). 

HIEROCRACY:  Government by ecclesiastics; a hierarchy. Jefferson.  HIEROGLYPH; HIEROGLYPHIC Hi"er*o*glyph, Hi`er*o*glyph"ic, n. Etym: [Cf. F. hiéroglyphe. See Hieroglyphic, a.]  1. A sacred character; a character in picture writing, as of the ancient Egyptians, Mexicans, etc. Specifically, in the plural, the picture writing of the ancient Egyptian priests. It is made up of three, or, as some say, four classes of characters: first, the hieroglyphic proper, or figurative, in which the representation of the object conveys the idea of the object itself; second, the ideographic, consisting of symbols representing ideas, not sounds, as an ostrich feather is a symbol of truth; third, the phonetic, consisting of symbols employed as syllables of a word, or as letters of the alphabet, having a certain sound, as a hawk represented the vowel a.  2. Any character or figure which has, or is supposed to have, a hidden or mysterious significance; hence, any unintelligible or illegible character or mark. [Colloq.]  HIEROGLYPHIC; HIEROGLYPHICAL Hi`er*o*glyph"ic, Hi`er*o*glyph"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hieroglyphicus, Gr. hiéroglyphique.]  1. Emblematic; expressive of some meaning by characters, pictures, or figures; as, hieroglyphic writing; a hieroglyphic obelisk. Pages no better than blanks to common minds, to his, hieroglyphical of wisest secrets. Prof. Wilson.  2. Resembling hieroglyphics; not decipherable. "An hieroglyphical scrawl." Sir W. Scott. 

HIEROGLYPHICALLY:  In hieroglyphics. 

HIEROGLYPHIST:  One versed in hieroglyphics. Gliddon. 

HIEROGRAM:  A form of sacred or hieratic writing. 

HIEROGRAMMATIC:  Written in, or pertaining to, hierograms; expressive of sacred writing. Bp. Warburton. 

HIEROGRAMMATIST:  A writer of hierograms; also, one skilled in hieroglyphics. Greenhill.  HIEROGRAPHIC; HIEROGRAPHICAL Hi`er*o*graph"ic, Hi`er*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hierographicus, Gr. hiérographique.]  Of or pertaining to sacred writing. 

HIEROGRAPHY:  Sacred writing. [R.] Bailey. 

HIEROLATRY:  The worship of saints or sacred things. [R.] Coleridge.  HIEROLOGIC; HIEROLOGICAL Hi`er*o*log"ic, Hi`er*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hiérologique.]  Pertaining to hierology. 

HIEROLOGIST:  One versed in, or whostudies, hierology. 

HIEROLOGY:  A treatise on sacred things; especially, the science which treats of the ancient writings and inscriptions of the Egyptians, or a treatise on that science. 

HIEROMANCY:  Divination by observing the objects offered in sacrifice. 

HIEROMARTYR:  A priest who becomes a martyr. 

HIERON:  A consecrateo place; esp., a temple. 

HIERONYMITE:  See Jeronymite. 

HIEROPHANT:  The presiding priest who initiated candidates at the Eleusinian mysteries; hence, one who teaches the mysteries and duties of religion. Abp Potter. 

HIEROPHANTIC:  Of or relating to hierophants or their teachings. 

HIEROSCOPY:  Divination by inspection of entrails of victims offered in sacrifice. 

HIEROTHECA:  A receptacle for sacred objects. 

HIEROURGY:  A sacred or holy work or worship. [Obs.] Waterland. 

HIFALUTIN:  See Highfaluting. 

HIGGLE:  In confusion; topsy-turvy. [Colloq.] Johnson. 

HIGGLER:  One who higgles. 

HIGH:  To hie. [Obs.] Men must high them apace, and make haste. Holland. 

HIGH:  Strong-scented; slightly tainted; as, epicures do not cook game before it is high.  5. (Mus.)  Acute or sharp; -- opposed to grave or low; as, a high note.  6. (Phon.)  Made with a high position of some part of the tongue in relation to the palate, as e (eve), oo (food). See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 10, 11. High admiral, the chief admiral.  -- High altar, the principal altar in a church.  -- High and dry, out of water; out of reach of the current or tide; -- said of a vessel, aground or beached.  -- High and mighty arrogant; overbearing. [Colloq.] -- High art, art which deals with lofty and dignified subjects and is characterized by an elevated style avoiding all meretricious display.  -- High bailiff, the chief bailiff.  -- High Church, and Low Church, two ecclesiastical parties in the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal Church. The high- churchmen emphasize the doctrine of the apostolic succession, and hold, in general, to a sacramental presence in the Eucharist, to baptismal regeneration, and to the sole validity of Episcopal ordination. They attach much importance to ceremonies and symbols in worship. Low-churchmen lay less stress on these points, and, in many instances, reject altogether the peculiar tenets of the high-church school. See Broad Church.  -- High constable (Law), a chief of constabulary. See Constable, n., 2.  -- High commission court,a court of ecclesiastical jurisdiction in England erected and united to the regal power by Queen Elizabeth in 1559. On account of the abuse of its powers it was abolished in 1641.  -- High day (Script.), a holy or feast day. John xix. 31.  -- High festival (Eccl.), a festival to be observed with full ceremonial.  -- High German, or High Dutch. See under German.  -- High jinks, an old Scottish pastime; hence, noisy revelry; wild sport. [Colloq.] "All the high jinks of the county, when the lad comes of age." F. Harrison.  -- High latitude (Geog.), one designated by the higher figures; consequently, a latitude remote from the equator.  -- High life, life among the aristocracy or the rich.  -- High liver, one who indulges in a rich diet.  -- High living, a feeding upon rich, pampering food.  -- High Mass. (R. C. Ch.) See under Mass.  -- High milling, a process of making flour from grain by several successive grindings and intermediate sorting, instead of by a single grinding.  -- High noon, the time when the sun is in the meridian.  -- High place (Script.), an eminence or mound on which sacrifices were offered.  -- High priest. See in the Vocabulary.  -- High relief. (Fine Arts) See Alto-rilievo.  -- High school. See under School. High seas (Law), the open sea; the part of the ocean not in the territorial waters of any particular sovereignty, usually distant three miles or more from the coast line. Wharton.  -- High steam, steam having a high pressure.  -- High steward, the chief steward.  -- High tea, tea with meats and extra relishes.  -- High tide, the greatest flow of the tide; high water.  -- High time. (a) Quite time; full time for the occasion. (b) A time of great excitement or enjoyment; a carousal. [Slang] -- High treason, treason against the sovereign or the state, the highest civil offense. See Treason.  Note: It is now sufficient to speak of high treason as treason simply, seeing that petty treason, as a distinct offense, has been abolished. Mozley & W.  -- High water, the utmost flow or greatest elevation of the tide; also, the time of such elevation.  -- High-water mark. (a) That line of the seashore to which the waters ordinarily reach at high water. (b) A mark showing the highest level reached by water in a river or other body of fresh water, as in time of freshet.  -- High-water shrub (Bot.), a composite shrub (Iva frutescens), growing in salt marshes along the Atlantic coast of the United States.  -- High wine, distilled spirits containing a high percentage of alcohol; -- usually in the plural.  -- To be on a high horse, to be on one's dignity; to bear one's self loftily. [Colloq.] -- With a high hand. (a) With power; in force; triumphantly. "The children of Israel went out with a high hand." Ex. xiv. 8.(b) In an overbearing manner, arbitrarily. "They governed the city with a high hand." Jowett (Thucyd. ).  Syn.  -- Tall; lofty; elevated; noble; exalted; supercilious; proud; violent; full; dear. See Tall. 

HIGH:  In a high manner; in a high place; to a great altitude; to a great degree; largely; in a superior manner; eminently; powerfully. "And reasoned high." Milton. "I can not reach so high." Shak.  Note: High is extensively used in the formation of compound words, most of which are of very obvious signification; as, high-aimed, high-arched, high-aspiring, high-bearing, high-boasting, high-browed, high-crested, high-crowned, high-designing, high-engendered, high- feeding, high-flaming, high-flavored, high-gazing, high-heaped, high- heeled, high-priced, high-reared, high-resolved, high-rigged, high- seated, high-shouldered, high-soaring, high-towering, high-voiced, and the like. High and low, everywhere; in all supposable places; as, I hunted high and low. [Colloq.] 

HIGH:  The highest card dealt or drawn. High, low, jack, and the game, a game at cards; -- also called all fours, old sledge, and seven up.  -- In high and low, utterly; completely; in every respect. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- On high, aloft; above. The dayspring from on high hath visited us. Luke i. 78. -- The Most High, the Supreme Being; God. 

HIGH:  To rise; as, the sun higheth. [Obs.] 

HIGHBINDER:  A ruffian; one who hounds, or spies upon, another; app. esp. to the members of certain alleged societies among the Chinese. [U. S.]  HIGH-BLOWN High"-blown`, a.  Inflated, as with conceit. 

HIGHBORN:  Of noble birth. Shak. 

HIGHBOY:  Bred in high life; of pure blood. Byron.  HIGH-BUILT High"-built`, a.  Of lofty structure; tall. "High-built organs." Tennyson. The high-built elephant his castle rears. Creech.  HIGH-CHURCH High"-church`, a.  Of or pertaining to, or favoring, the party called the High Church, or their doctrines or policy. See High Church, under High, a.  HIGH-CHURCHISM High"-church`ism, n.  The principles of the high-church party.  HIGH-CHURCHMAN High"-church`man, n.; pl. -men (.  One who holds high-church principles.  HIGH-CHURCHMAN-SHIP High"-church`man-ship, n.  The state of being a high-churchman. J. H. Newman.  HIGH-COLORED High"-col`ored, a.  1. Having a strong, deep, or glaring color; flushed. Shak.  2. Vivid; strong or forcible in representation; hence, exaggerated; as, high-colored description.  HIGH-EMBOWED High"-em*bowed `, a.  Having lofty arches. "The high-embowed roof." Milton.  HIGHER CRITICISM High"er crit"i*cism.  Criticism which includes the study of the contents, literary character, date, authorship, etc., of any writing; as, the higher criticism of the Pentateuch. Called also historical criticism.  The comparison of the Hebrew and Greek texts . . . introduces us to a series of questions affecting the composition, the editing, and the collection of the sacred books. This class of questions forms the special subject of the branch of critical science which is usually distinguished from the verbal criticism of the text by the name of higher, or historical, criticism. W. Robertson Smith. 

HIGHERING:  Rising higher; ascending. In ever highering eagle circles. Tennyson.  HIGHER THOUGHT Higher thought.  See New thought, below.  HIGHER-UP High"er-up", n.  A superior officer or official; -- used chiefly in pl. [Slang] 

HIGHFALUTING:  High-flown, bombastic language. [Written also hifalutin.] [Jocular, U. S.] Lowell.  HIGH-FED High"-fed`, a.  Pampered; fed luxuriously.  HIGH-FINISHED High"-fin`ished, a.  Finished with great care; polished.  HIGH FIVE High five.  See Cinch (the game). 

HIGHFLIER:  One who is extravagant in pretensions, opinions, or manners. Swift.  HIGH-FLOWN High"-flown`, a.  1. Elevated; proud. "High-flown hopes." Denham.  2. Turgid; extravagant; bombastic; inflated; as, high-flown language. M. Arnold.  HIGH-FLUSHED High"-flushed`, a.  Elated. Young. 

HIGHFLYING:  Extravagant in opinions or ambition. "Highflying, arbitrary kings." Dryden.  HIGH-GO High"-go`, n.  A spree; a revel. [Low]  HIGH-HANDED High"-hand`ed, a.  Overbearing; oppressive; arbitrary; violent; as, a high-handed act.  HIGH-HEARTED High"-heart`ed, a.  Full of courage or nobleness; high-souled.  -- High"-heart`ed*ness, n.  HIGH-HOE High"-hoe`, n. (Zoöl.)  The European green woodpecker or yaffle. [Written also high- hoo.]  HIGH-HOLDER High"-hold`er, n. (Zoöl.)  The flicker; -- called also high-hole. [Local, U. S.] 

HIGHLAND:  Elevated or mountainous land; (often in the pl.) an elevated region or country; as, the Highlands of Scotland. Highland fling, a dance peculiar to the Scottish Highlanders; a sort of hornpipe. 

HIGHLANDER:  An inhabitant of highlands, especially of the Highlands of Scotland. 

HIGHLANDRY:  Highlanders, collectively.  HIGH-LOW High"-low`, n.  A laced boot, ankle high. 

HIGHLY:  In a high manner, or to a high degree; very much; as, highly esteemed. 

HIGHMEN:  Loaded dice so contrived as to turn up high numbers. [Obs] Sir J. Harrington.  HIGH-METTLED High"-met`tled, a.  Having abundance of mettle; ardent; full of fire; as, a high- mettled steed.  HIGH-MINDED High"-mind"ed, a.  1. Proud; arrogant. [Obs.] Be not high-minded, but fear. Rom. xi. 20.  2. Having, or characterized by, honorable pride; of or pertaining to elevated principles and feelings; magnanimous; -- opposed to mean. High-minded, manly recognition of those truths. A. Norton.  HIGH-MINDEDNESS High"-mind`ed*ness, n.  The quality of being highminded; nobleness; magnanimity. 

HIGHMOST:  Highest. [Obs.] Shak. 

HIGHNESS:  Having high antlers; bearing full-grown antlers aloft.  HIGH-PRESSURE High"-pres`sure, a.  1. Having or involving a pressure greatly exceeding that of the atmosphere; -- said of steam, air, water, etc., and of steam, air, or hydraulic engines, water wheels, etc.  2. Fig.: Urgent; intense; as, a high-pressure business or social life. High-pressure engine, an engine in which steam at high pressure is used. It may be either a condensing or a noncondensing engine. Formerly the term was used only of the latter. See Steam engine.  HIGH PRIEST High" priest`. (Eccl.)  A chief priest; esp., the head of the Jewish priesthood.  HIGH-PRIESTHOOD High"-priest`hood, n.  The office, dignity, or position of a high priest.  HIGH-PRIESTSHIP High"-priest`ship, n.  High-priesthood.  HIGH-PRINCIPLED High"-prin`ci*pled, a.  Possessed of noble or honorable principles.  HIGH-PROOF High"-proof`, a.  1. Highly rectified; very strongly alcoholic; as, high-proof spirits.  2. So as to stand any test. "We are high-proof melancholy." Shak.  HIGH-RAISED High"-raised`, a.  1. Elevated; raised aloft; upreared.  2. Elated with great ideas or hopes. Milton.  HIGH-REACHING High"-reach`ing, a.  Reaching high or upward; hence, ambitious; aspiring. Shak.  HIGH-RED High"-red`, a.  Of a strong red color. 

HIGHROAD:  A highway; a much travele  HIGH-SEASONED High"-sea`soned, a.  Enriched with spice and condiments; hence, exciting; piquant.  HIGH-SIGHTED High"-sight`ed, a.  Looking upward; supercilious. Shak.  HIGH-SOULED High"-souled`, a.  Having a high or noble spirit; honorable. E. Everett.  HIGH-SOUNDING High"-sound`ing, a.  Pompous; noisy; ostentatious; as, high-sounding words or titles.  HIGH-SPIRITED High"-spir`it*ed, a.  Full of spirit or natural fire; haughty; courageous; impetuous; not brooking restraint or opposition.  HIGH STEEL High steel.  Steel containing a high percentage of carbon; high-carbon steel.  HIGH-STEPPER High"-step`per, n.  A horse that moves with a high step or proud gait; hence, a person having a proud bearing. [Colloq.]  HIGH-STOMACHED High"-stom`ached, a.  Having a lofty spirit; haughty. [Obs.] Shak.  HIGH-STRUNG High"-strung`, a.  Strung to a high pitch; spirited; sensitive; as, a high-strung horse.  HIGH-SWELLING High"-swell`ing, a.  Inflated; boastful. 

HIGHT:  A variant of Height. 

HIGHTENER:  That which heightens. 

HIGHTH:  Variant of Height. [Obs.]  HIGH-TONED High"-toned`, a.  1. High in tone or sound.  2. Elevated; high-principled; honorable. In whose high-toned impartial mind Degrees of mortal rank and state Seem objects of indifferent weight. Sir W. Scott.  HIGH-TOP High"-top`, n.  A ship's masthead. Shak.  HIGHTY-TIGHTY High"ty-tigh"ty, a.  Hoity-toity. 

HIGHWAY:  A road or way open to the use of the public; a main road or thoroughfare.  Syn.  -- Way; road; path; course. 

HIGHWAYMAN:  One who robs on the public road; a highway robber.  HIGH-WROUGHT High"-wrought`, a.  1. Wrought with fine art or skill; elaborate. [Obs.] Pope.  2. Worked up, or swollen, to a high degree; as, a highwrought passion. "A high-wrought flood." Shak. 

HIGRE:  See Eagre. [Obs.] Drayton.  HIG-TAPER Hig"-ta`per, n. Etym: [Cf. Hag-taper.] (Bot.)  A plant of the genus Verbascum (V. Thapsus); the common mullein. [Also high-taper and hag-taper.]  HIJERA; HIJRA Hij"e*ra, Hij"ra (, n.  See Hegira. 

HIKE:  To hike one's self; specif., to go with exertion or effort; to tramp; to march laboriously. [Dial. or Colloq.] "If you persist in heaving and hiking like this."  Kipling.  It's hike, hike, hike (march) till you stick in the mud, and then you hike back again a little slower than you went. Scribner's Mag. 

HIKE:  To move with a swing, toss, throw, jerk, or the like. [Dial. or Colloq.] 

HIKE:  The act of hiking; a tramp; a march. [Dial. or Colloq.]  With every hike there's a few laid out with their hands crossed. Scribner's Mag. 

HILAL:  Of or pertaining to a hilum. 

HILAR:  Belonging to the hilum. 

HILARIOUS:  Mirthful; noisy; merry. 

HILARITY:  Boisterous mirth; merriment; jollity. Goldsmith.  Note: Hilarity differs from joy: the latter, excited by good news or prosperity, is an affection of the mind; the former, produced by social pleasure, drinking, etc., which rouse the animal spirits, is more demonstrative.  Syn.  -- Glee; cheerfulness; mirth; merriment; gayety; joyousness; exhilaration; joviality; jollity.  HILARY TERM Hil"a*ry term`.  Formerly, one of the four terms of the courts of common law in England, beginning on the eleventh of January and ending on the thirty-first of the same month, in each year; -- so called from the festival of St. Hilary, January 13th.  Note: The Hilary term is superseded by the Hilary sittings, which commence on the eleventh of January and end on the Wednesday before Easter. Mozley & W. 

HILDING:  A base, menial wretch.  -- a.  Base; spiritless. [Obs.] Shak. 

HILE:  To hide. See Hele. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HILE:  Same as Hilum. 

HILL:  To surround with earth; to heap or draw earth around or upon; as, to hill corn. Showing them how to plant and hill it. Palfrey. 

HILLINESS:  The state of being hilly. 

HILLING:  The act or process of heaping or drawing earth around plants. 

HILLOCK:  A small hill. Shak. 

HILLSIDE:  The side or declivity of a hill. 

HILLTOP:  The top of a hill. 

HILTED:  Having a hilt; -- used in composition; as, basket-hilted, cross-hilted. 

HILUM:  The eye of a bean or other seed; the mark or scar at the point of attachment of an ovule or seed to its base or support; -- called also hile.  2. (Anat.)  The part of a gland, or similar organ, where the blood vessels and nerves enter; the hilus; as, the hilum of the kidney. 

HILUS:  Same as Hilum, 2. 

HIM:  Them. See Hem. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HIM:  The objective case of he. See He. Him that is weak in the faith receive. Rom. xiv. 1. Friends who have given him the most sympathy. Thackeray.  Note: In old English his and him were respectively the genitive and dative forms of it as well as of he. This use is now obsolete. Poetically, him is sometimes used with the reflexive sense of himself. I never saw but Humphrey, duke of Gloster, Did bear him like a noble gentleman. Shak. 

HIMALAYAN:  Of or pertaining to the Himalayas, the great mountain chain in Hindostan. 

HIMPNE:  A hymn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HIMSELF:  Themselves. See Hemself. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HIMSELVE:  See 1st Himself. [Obs.]  HIMYARIC; HIMYARITIC Him*yar"ic, Him`ya*rit"ic, a.  Pertaining to Himyar, an ancient king of Yemen, in Arabia, or to his successors or people; as, the Himjaritic characters, language, etc.; applied esp. to certain ancient inscriptions showing the primitive type of the oldest form of the Arabic, still spoken in Southern Arabia. Brande & C. 

HIN:  A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing three quarts, one pint, one gill, English measure. W. H. Ward. 

HIND:  The female of the red deer, of which the male is the stag.  2. (Zoöl.)  A spotted food fish of the genus Epinephelus, as E. apua of Bermuda, and E. Drummond-hayi of Florida; -- called also coney, John Paw, spotted hind. 

HIND:  In the rear; -- opposed to front; of or pertaining to the part or end which follows or is behind, in opposition to the part which leads or is before; as, the hind legs or hind feet of a quadruped; the hind man in a procession. 

HINDBERRY:  The raspberry. [Prov. Eng.] 

HINDBRAIN:  The posterior of the three principal divisions of the brain, including the epencephalon and metencephalon. Sometimes restricted to the epencephalon only. 

HINDER:  Of or belonging to that part or end which is in the rear, or which follows; as, the hinder part of a wagon; the hinder parts of a horse. He was in the hinder part of the ship. Mark iv. 38. 

HINDER:  To interpose obstacles or impediments; to be a hindrance. This objection hinders not but that the heroic action of some commander . . . may be written. Dryden. 

HINDERANCE:  Same as Hindrance. 

HINDERER:  One who, or that which, hinders. 

HINDEREST:  Hindermost; -- superl. of Hind, a. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HINDERLING:  A worthless, base, degenerate person or animal. [Obs.] Callander.  HINDERMOST; HINDMOST Hind"er*most`, Hind"most`, a. Etym: [The superlative of hind. See Hind, a.] Etym: [Cf. AS. hindema (akin to Goth. hindumists), a superlative from the same source as the comparative hinder. See Hinder, a., and cf. Aftermost.]  Furthest in or toward the rear; last. "Rachel and Joseph hindermost." Gen. xxxiii. 2. 

HINDGUT:  The posterior part of the alimentary canal, including the rectum, and sometimes the large intestine also. 

HINDI:  The name given by Europeans to that form of the Hindustani language which is chiefly spoken by native Hindoos. In employs the Devanagari character, in which Sanskrit is written. Whitworth.  HINDLEYS SCREW Hind"ley"s screw`. (Mech.)  A screw cut on a solid whose sides are arcs of the periphery of a wheel into the teeth of which the screw is intended to work. It is named from the person who first used the form.  HINDOO; HINDU Hin"doo, Hin"du, n.; pl. Hindoos or Hindus. Etym: [Per. Hindu, fr. Hind, Hindustan, India. Cf. Indian.]  A native inhabitant of Hindostan. As an ethnical term it is confined to the Dravidian and Aryan races; as a religious name it is restricted to followers of the Veda.  HINDOO CALENDAR; HINDU CALENDAR Hin"doo, or Hindu, calendar  .  A lunisolar calendar of India, according to which the year is divided into twelve months, with an extra month inserted after every month in which two new moons occur (once in three years). The intercalary month has the name of the one which precedes it. The year usually commences about April 11. The months are follows:  Baisakh . . . . . . . . . .    April-May Jeth . . . . . . . . . . . . . May-June Asarh . . . . . . . . . . . .  June-July Sawan (Sarawan) . . . . . . .  July-Aug. Bhadon . . . . . . . . . . .   Aug.-Sept. Asin (Kuar). . . . . . . . . . Sept.-Oct. Katik (Kartik) . . . . . . . . Oct.-Nov. Aghan . . . . . . . . . . . .  Nov.-Dec. Pus . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Dec.-Jan. Magh . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jan.-Feb. Phagun (Phalgun) . . . . . . . Feb.-March Chait . . . . . . . . . . . .  March-April HINDOOISM; HINDUISM Hin"doo*ism, Hin"du*ism, n.  The religious doctrines and rites of the Hindoos; Brahmanism.  HINDOOSTANEE; HINDUSTANI Hin"doo*sta"nee, Hin"du*sta"ni, a. Etym: [Hind. Hindustani an Indian, fr. Hind. and Per. Hindustan India.]  Of or pertaining to the Hindoos or their language.  -- n.  The language of Hindostan; the name given by Europeans to the most generally spoken of the modern Aryan languages of India. It is Hindi with the addition of Persian and Arabic words. 

HINDU:  Same as Hindoo. 

HINE:  A servant; a farm laborer; a peasant; a hind. [Obs.] Bailiff, herd, nor other hine. Chaucer. 

HINGE:  To stand, depend, hang, or turn, as on a hinge; to depend chiefly for a result or decision or for force and validity; -- usually with on or upon; as, the argument hinges on this point. I. Taylor 

HINGED:  Furnished with hinges. 

HINGELESS:  Without a hinge or joint. 

HINK:  A reaping hook. Knight.  HINNIATE; HINNY Hin"ni*ate, Hin"ny v. i. Etym: [L. hinnire.]  To neigh; to whinny. [Obs.] 

HINNY:  A hybrid between a stallion and an ass. 

HINNY:  A term of endearment; darling; -- corrupted from honey. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

HINT:  To bring to mind by a slight mention or remote allusion; to suggest in an indirect manner; as, to hint a suspicion. Just hint a fault and hesitate dislike. Pope.  Syn.  -- To suggest; intimate; insinuate; imply. 

HINT:  To make an indirect reference, suggestion, or allusion; to allude vaguely to something. We whisper, and hint, and chuckle. Tennyson. To hint at, to allude to lightly, indirectly, or cautiously.  Syn.  -- To allude; refer; glance; touch. 

HINT:  A remote allusion; slight mention; intimation; insinuation; a suggestion or reminder, without a full declaration or explanation; also, an occasion or motive. Our hint of woe Is common. Shak. The hint malevolent, the look oblique. Hannah M  Syn.  -- Suggestion; allusion. See Suggestion. 

HINTERLAND:  The land or region lying behind the coast district. The term is used esp. with reference to the so-called doctrine of the hinterland, sometimes advanced, that occupation of the coast supports a claim to an exclusive right to occupy, from time to time, the territory lying inland of the coast. 

HINTINGLY:  In a hinting manner. 

HIP:  The external angle formed by the meeting of two sloping sides or skirts of a roof, which have their wall plates running in different directions.  3. (Engin)  In a bridge truss, the place where an inclined end post meets the top chord. Waddell. Hip bone (Anat.), the innominate bone; -- called also haunch bone and huckle bone.  -- Hip girdle (Anat.), the pelvic girdle.  -- Hip joint (Anat.), the articulation between the thigh bone and hip bone.  -- Hip knob (Arch.), a finial, ball, or other ornament at the intersection of the hip rafters and the ridge.  -- Hip molding (Arch.), a molding on the hip of a roof, covering the hip joint of the slating or other roofing.  -- Hip rafter (Arch.), the rafter extending from the wall plate to the ridge in the angle of a hip roof.  -- Hip roof, Hipped roof (Arch.), a roof having sloping ends and sloping sides. See Hip, n., 2., and Hip, v. t., 3.  -- Hip tile, a tile made to cover the hip of a roof.  -- To catch upon the hip, or To have on the hip, to have or get the advantage of; -- a figure probably derived from wresting. Shak.  -- To smite hip and thigh, to overthrow completely; to defeat utterly. Judg. xv. 8. 

HIP:  The fruit of a rosebush, especially of the English dog-rose (Rosa canina). [Written also hop, hep.] Hip tree (Bot.), the dog- rose. 

HIP:  Used to excite attention or as a signal; as, hip, hip, hurra!  HIP; HIPPS Hip, or Hipps (, n.  See Hyp, n. [Colloq.]  HIPE; HYPE Hipe, n. Also Hype  . [Etym. uncertain.] (Wrestling)  A throw in which the wrestler lifts his opponent from the ground, swings him to one side, knocks up his nearer thigh from the back with the knee, and throws him on his back. 

HIPE:  To throw by means of a hipe. -- Hip"er (#), n. 

HIPHALT:  Lame in the hip. [R.] Gower.  HIP LOCK Hip lock. (Wrestling)  A lock in which a close grip is obtained and a fall attempted by a heave over the hip.  HIPPA; HIPPE Hip"pa, Hip"pe, n. (Zoöl.)  A genus of marine decapod crustaceans, which burrow rapidly in the sand by pushing themselves backward; -- called also bait bug. See Illust. under Anomura. 

HIPPARION:  An extinct genus of Tertiary mammals allied to the horse, but three-toed, having on each foot a small lateral hoof on each side of the main central one. It is believed to be one of the ancestral genera of the Horse family.  HIPPED; HIPPISH Hipped, Hip"pish, a. Etym: [From 5th Hip.]  Somewhat hypochondriac; melancholy. See Hyppish. [Colloq.] When we are hipped or in high spirits. R. L. Stevenson. 

HIPPOBOSCA:  A genus of dipterous insects including the horsefly or horse tick.  -- Hip`po*bos"can, a. 

HIPPOCAMP:  See Hippocampus. 

HIPPOCAMPAL:  Of or pertaining to the hippocampus. 

HIPPOCAMPUS:  A fabulous monster, with the head and fore quarters of a horse joined to the tail of a dolphin or other fish (Hippocampus brevirostris), -- seen in Pompeian paintings, attached to the chariot of Neptune. Fairholt.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of lophobranch fishes of several species in which the head and neck have some resemblance to those of a horse; -- called also sea horse.  Note: They swim slowly, in an erect position, and often cling to seaweeds by means of the incurved prehensile tail. The male has a ventral pouch, in which it carries the eggs till hatched.  3. (Zoöl.)  A name applied to either of two ridges of white matter in each lateral ventricle of the brain. The larger is called hippocampus major or simply hippocampus. The smaller, hippocampus minor, is called also ergot and calcar. 

HIPPOCENTAUR:  Same as Centaur. 

HIPPOCRAS:  A cordial made of spiced wine, etc. 

HIPPOCRATES:  A famous Greek physician and medical writer, born in Cos, about 460 B. C. Hippocrates' sleeve, a conical strainer, made by stitching together two adjacent sides of a square piece of cloth, esp. flannel of linen. 

HIPPOCRATIC:  Of or pertaining to Hippocrates, or to his teachings. Hippocratic face Etym: [L. facies Hippocratica], the change produced in the countenance by death, or long sickness, excessive evacuations, excessive hunger, and the like. The nose is pinched, the eyes are sunk, the temples hollow, the ears cold and retracted, the skin of the forehead tense and dry, the complexion livid, the lips pendent, relaxed, and cold; -- so called, as having been described by Hippocrates. Dunglison.  -- Hippocratic oath, an oath said to have been dictated by Hippocrates to his disciples. Such an oath is still administered to candidates for graduation in medicine. 

HIPPOCRATISM:  The medical philosophy or system of Hippocrates. 

HIPPOCRENE:  A fountain on Mount Helicon in Boeotia, fabled to have burst forth when the ground was struck by the hoof of Pegasus. Also, its waters, which were supposed to impart poetic inspiration. Keats. Nor maddening draughts of Hippocrene. Longfellow. 

HIPPOCREPIAN:  One of an order of fresh-water Bryozoa, in which the tentacles are on a lophophore, shaped like a horseshoe. See Phylactolæma. 

HIPPOCREPIFORM:  Shaped like a horseshoe. 

HIPPODAME:  A fabulous sea monster. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HIPPODROME:  A place set apart for equestrian and chariot races.  2. An arena for equestrian performances; a circus. 

HIPPOGRIFF:  A fabulous winged animal, half horse and half griffin. Milton. 

HIPPOLITH:  A concretion, or kind of bezoar, from the intestines of the horse. 

HIPPOPATHOLOGY:  The science of veterinary medicine; the pathology of the horse. 

HIPPOPHAGI:  Eaters of horseflesh. 

HIPPOPHAGISM:  Hippophagy. Lowell. 

HIPPOPHAGIST:  One who eats horseflesh. 

HIPPOPHAGOUS:  Feeding on horseflesh; -- said of certain nomadic tribes, as the Tartars. 

HIPPOPHAGY:  The act or practice of feeding on horseflesh. 

HIPPOPHILE:  One who loves horses. Holmes. 

HIPPOPOTAMUS:  A large, amphibious, herbivorous mammal (Hippopotamus amphibius), common in the rivers of Africa. It is allied to the hogs, and has a very thick, naked skin, a thick and square head, a very large muzzle, small eyes and ears, thick and heavy body, and short legs. It is supposed to be the behemoth of the Bible. Called also zeekoe, and river horse. A smaller species (H. Liberiencis) inhabits Western Africa. 

HIPPOTOMY:  Anatomy of the horse. 

HIPPURIC:  Obtained from the urine of horses; as, hippuric acid. Hippuric acid, a white crystalline substance, containing nitrogen, present in the urine of herbivorous animals, and in small quantity in human urine. By the action of acids, it is decomposed into benzoic acid and glycocoll. 

HIPPURITE:  A fossil bivalve mollusk of the genus Hippurites, of many species, having a conical, cup-shaped under valve, with a flattish upper valve or lid. Hippurites are found only in the Cretaceous rocks.  HIP-ROOFED Hip"-roofed`, a.  Having a hip roof. 

HIPSHOT:  Having the hip dislocated; hence, having one hip lower than the other. L'Estrange.  HIP TREE Hip" tree`. (Bot.)  The dog-rose. 

HIR:  See Here, pron. Chaucer. 

HIRCIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mutton suet; -- applied by Chevreul to an oily acid which was obtained from mutton suet, and to which he attributed the peculiar taste and smell of that substance. The substance has also been called hircin. Watts. 

HIRCIN:  Hircic acid. See Hircic. [R.]  HIRCINE; HIRCINOUS Hir"cine, Hir"ci*nous, a. Etym: [L. hircinus, fr. hircus hegoat: cf. F. hircin.]  1. Goatlike; of or pertaining to a goat or the goats.  2. Of a strong goatish smell. 

HIRE:  See Here, pron. Chaucer. 

HIRE:  A bailment by which the use of a thing, or the services and labor of a person, are contracted for at a certain price or reward. Story.  Syn.  -- Wages; salary; stipend; allowance; pay. 

HIRELESS:  Without hire. Davenant. 

HIRELING:  One who is hired, or who serves for wages; esp., one whose motive and interest in serving another are wholly gainful; a mercenary. "Lewd hirelings." Milton. 

HIRELING:  Serving for hire or wages; venal; mercenary. "Hireling mourners." Dryden.  HIRE PURCHASE; HIRE PURCHASE AGREEMENT; HIRE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT Hire purchase, or, more fully, Hire purchase agreement, or Hire and purchase agreement. (Law)  A contract (more fully called contract of hire with an option of purchase) in which a person hires goods for a specified period and at a fixed rent, with the added condition that if he shall retain the goods for the full period and pay all the installments of rent as they become due the contract shall determine and the title vest absolutely in him, and that if he chooses he may at any time during the term surrender the goods and be quit of any liability for future installments upon the contract. In the United States such a contract is generally treated as a conditional sale, and the term hire purchase is also sometimes applied to a contract in which the hirer is not free to avoid future liability by surrender of the goods. In England, however, if the hirer does not have this right the contract is a sale. 

HIRER:  One who hires.  HIRES; HIRS Hires, Hirs, pron.  Hers; theirs. See Here, pron. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HIRSUTE:  Pubescent with coarse or stiff hairs. Gray.  4. (Zoöl.)  Covered with hairlike feathers, as the feet of certain birds. 

HIRSUTENESS:  Hairiness. Burton. 

HIRTELLOUS:  Pubescent with minute and somewhat rigid hairs. 

HIRUDINE:  Of or pertaining to the leeches. 

HIRUDINEA:  An order of Annelida, including the leeches; -- called also Hirudinei. 

HIRUDO:  A genus of leeches, including the common medicinal leech. See Leech. 

HIRUNDINE:  Like or pertaining to the swallows. 

HIRUNDO:  A genus of birds including the swallows and martins. 

HISINGERITE:  A soft black, iron ore, nearly earthy, a hydrous silicate of iron. 

HISPANIC:  Of or pertaining to Spain or its language; as, Hispanic words. 

HISPANICISM:  A Spanish idiom or mode of speech. Keightley. 

HISPANICIZE:  To give a Spanish form or character to; as, to Hispanicize Latin words. 

HISPID:  Beset with stiff hairs or bristles. 

HISPIDULOUS:  Minutely hispid. 

HISSINGLY:  With a hissing sound. 

HIST:  Hush; be silent; -- a signal for silence. Milton. 

HISTIOLOGY:  Same as Histology. 

HISTOGENETIC:  Tissue-producing; connected with the formation and development of the organic tissues. 

HISTOGENY:  Same as Histogenesis. Dunglison. 

HISTOGRAPHER:  One who describes organic tissues; an histologist. 

HISTOGRAPHICAL:  Of or pertaining to histography. 

HISTOGRAPHY:  A description of, or treatise on, organic tissues. 

HISTOHAEMATIN:  One of a class of respiratory pigments, widely distributed in the animal kingdom, capable of ready oxidation and reduction. 

HISTOID:  Resembling the normal tissues; as, histoid tumors.  HISTOLOGIC; HISTOLOGICAL His`to*log"ic, His`to*log"ic*al a. (Biol.)  Pertaining to histology, or to the microscopic structure of the tissues of living organisms.  -- His`to*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

HISTOLOGIST:  One versed in histology. 

HISTOLOGY:  That branch of biological science, which treats of the minute (microscopic) structure of animal and vegetable tissues; -- called also histiology. 

HISTOLYSIS:  The decay and dissolution of the organic tissues and of the blood. 

HISTOLYTIC:  Of or pertaining to histolysis, or the degeneration of tissues. 

HISTONOMY:  The science which treats of the laws relating to organic tissues, their formation, development, functions, etc. 

HISTOPHYLY:  The tribal history of cells, a division of morphophyly. Haeckel. 

HISTORIAL:  Historical. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HISTORIAN:  Of or pertaining to history, or the record of past events; as, an historical poem; the historic page.  -- His*tor"ic*al*ness, n.  -- His*to*ric"i*ty, n. There warriors frowning in historic brass. Pope. Historical painting, that branch of painting which represents the events of history.  -- Historical sense, that meaning of a passage which is deduced from the circumstances of time, place, etc., under which it was written.  -- The historic sense, the capacity to conceive and represent the unity and significance of a past era or age. 

HISTORICALLY:  In the manner of, or in accordance with, history. 

HISTORICIZE:  To record or narrate in the manner of a history; to chronicle. [R.] 

HISTORIED:  Related in history. 

HISTORIER:  An historian. [Obs.] 

HISTORIETTE:  Historical narration on a small scale; a brief recital; a story. Emerson. 

HISTORIFY:  To record in or as history. [R.] Lamb. Thy conquest meet to be historified. Sir P. Sidney. 

HISTORIOGRAPHER:  An historian; a writer of history; especially, one appointed or designated to write a history; also, a title bestowed by some governments upon historians of distinction. 

HISTORIOGRAPHERSHIP:  The office of an historiographer. Saintsbury. 

HISTORIOGRAPHY:  The art of employment of an historiographer. 

HISTORIOLOGY:  A discourse on history. Cockeram. 

HISTORIONOMER:  One versed in the phenomena of history and the laws controlling them. And historionomers will have measured accurately the sidereal years of races. Lowell. 

HISTORIZE:  To relate as history; to chronicle; to historicize. [R.] Evelyn. 

HISTORY:  To narrate or record. [Obs.] Shak. 

HISTOTOMY:  The dissection of organic tissues. 

HISTOZYME:  A soluble ferment occurring in the animal body, to the presence of which many normal decompositions and synthetical processes are supposed to be due. 

HISTRION:  A player. [R.] Pope.  HISTRIONIC; HISTRIONICAL His`tri*on"ic, His`tri*on"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. histrionicus: cf. F. histronique. See Histrion.]  Of or relating to the stage or a stageplayer; befitting a theatre; theatrical; -- sometimes in a bad sense.  -- His`tri*on"ic*al*ly, adv. Tainted with false and histrionic feeling. De Quincey. 

HISTRIONICISM:  The histronic art; stageplaying. W. Black. 

HISTRIONISM:  Theatrical representation; acting; affectation. Sir T. Browne. 

HISTRIONIZE:  To act; to represent on the stage, or theatrically. Urquhart. 

HIT:  It. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HIT:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Hide, contracted from hideth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HIT:  To take up, or replace by a piece belonging to the opposing player; -- said of a single unprotected piece on a point. To hit off, to describe with quick characteristic strokes; as, to hit off a speaker. Sir W. Temple.  -- To hit out, to perform by good luck. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HIT:  A striking of the ball; as, a safe hit; a foul hit; -- sometimes used specifically for a base hit. Base hit, Safe hit, Sacrifice hit. (Baseball) See under Base, Safe, etc. 

HIT:  having become very popular or acclaimed; -- said of entertainment performances; as, a hit record, a hit movie. 

HITCH:  A knot or noose in a rope which can be readily undone; -- intended for a temporary fastening; as, a half hitch; a clove hitch; a timber hitch, etc.  6. (Geol.)  A small dislocation of a bed or vein. 

HITCHEL:  See Hatchel. 

HITHE:  A port or small haven; -- used in composition; as, Lambhithe, now Lambeth. Pennant. 

HITHERMOST:  Nearest on this side. Sir M. Hale. 

HITHERWARD:  Toward this place; hither. Marching hitherward in proud array. Shak. 

HITTER:  One who hits or strikes; as, a hard hitter. 

HITTITE:  A member of an ancient people (or perhaps group of peoples) whose settlements extended from Armenia westward into Asia Minor and southward into Palestine. They are known to have been met along the Orontes as early as 1500 b. c., and were often at war with the Egyptians and Assyrians. Especially in the north they developed a considerable civilization, of which numerous monuments and inscriptions are extant. Authorities are not agreed as to their race. While several attempts have been made to decipher the Hittite characters, little progress has yet been made.  HITTORF RAYS Hit"torf rays. (Elec.)  Rays (chiefly cathode rays) developed by the electric discharge in Hittorf tubes.  HITTORF TUBE Hit"torf tube. (Elec.)  (a) A highly exhausted glass tube with metallic electrodes nearly in contact so as to exhibit the insulating effects of a vacuum. It was used by the German physicist W. Hittorf (b. 1824).  (b) A Crookes tube. 

HIVE:  To take shelter or lodgings together; to reside in a collective body. Pope. 

HIVELESS:  Destitute of a hive. Gascoigne. 

HIVER:  One who collects bees into a hive. 

HIZZ:  To hiss. [Obs.] Shak. 

HO:  Who. [Obs.] In some Chaucer MSS.  HO; HOA Ho, Hoa, n. Etym: [See Ho, interj., 2.]  A stop; a halt; a moderation of pace. There is no ho with them. Decker.  HO; HOA Ho, Hoa, interj. Etym: [Cf. F. & G. ho.]  1. Halloo! attend! -- a call to excite attention, or to give notice of approach. "What noise there, ho" Shak. "Ho! who's within" Shak.  2. Etym: [Perhaps corrupted fr. hold; but cf. F. hau stop! and E. whoa.]  Stop! stand still! hold! -- a word now used by teamsters, but formerly to order the cessation of anything. [Written also whoa, and, formerly, hoo.] The duke . . . pulled out his sword and cried "Hoo!" Chaucer. An herald on a scaffold made an hoo. Chaucer. 

HOAR:  Hoariness; antiquity. [R.] Covered with the awful hoar of innumerable ages. Burke. 

HOAR:  To become moldy or musty. [Obs.] Shak. 

HOARD:  See Hoarding, 2. Smart. 

HOARD:  A store, stock, or quantity of anything accumulated or laid up; a hidden supply; a treasure; as, a hoard of provisions; a hoard of money. 

HOARD:  To collect and lay up; to amass and deposit in secret; to store secretly, or for the sake of keeping and accumulating; as, to hoard grain. 

HOARD:  To lay up a store or hoard, as of money. To hoard for those whom he did breed. Spenser. 

HOARDER:  One who hoards. 

HOARDING:  A screen of boards inclosing a house and materials while builders are at work. [Eng.] Posted on every dead wall and hoarding. London Graphic.  2. A fence, barrier, or cover, inclosing, surrounding, or concealing something. The whole arrangement was surrounded by a hoarding, the space within which was divided into compartments by sheets of tin. Tyndall. 

HOARED:  Moldy; musty. [Obs.] Granmer. 

HOARFROST:  The white particles formed by the congelation of dew; white frost. [Written also horefrost. See Hoar, a.] He scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes. Ps. cxlvii. 16. 

HOARHOUND:  Same as Horehound. 

HOARINESS:  The state of being hoary. Dryden. 

HOARSELY:  With a harsh, grating sound or voice. 

HOARSEN:  To make hoarse. I shall be obliged to hoarsen my voice. Richardson. 

HOARSENESS:  Harshness or roughness of voice or sound, due to mucus collected on the vocal cords, or to swelling or looseness of the cords. 

HOARSTONE:  A stone designating the Halliwell. 

HOARY:  Of a pale silvery gray.  6. (Bot.)  Covered with short, dense, grayish white hairs; canescent. Hoary bat (Zoöl.), an American bat (Atalapha cinerea), having the hair yellowish, or brown, tipped with white. 

HOATZIN:  Same as Hoazin. 

HOAX:  A deception for mockery or mischief; a deceptive trick or story; a practical joke. Macaulay. 

HOAX:  To deceive by a story or a trick, for sport or mischief; to impose upon sportively. Lamb. 

HOAXER:  One who hoaxes. 

HOAZIN:  A remarkable South American bird (Opisthocomus cristatus); the crested touraco. By some zoölogists it is made the type of a distinct order (Opisthocomi). 

HOB:  A threaded and fluted hardened steel cutter, resembling a tap, used in a lathe for forming the teeth of screw chasers, worm wheels, etc. 

HOB:  Same as Hobnob. Tennyson. 

HOBBISM:  The philosophical system of Thomas Hobbes, an English materialist ( 

HOBBIST:  One who accepts the doctrines of Thomas Hobbes. 

HOBBLEBUSH:  A low bush (Viburnum lantanoides) having long, straggling branches and handsome flowers. It is found in the Northern United States. Called also shinhopple.  HOBBLEDEHOY; HOBBLETEHOY Hob"ble*de*hoy`, Hob"ble*te*hoy`, n. [Written also hobbetyhoy, hobbarddehoy, hobbedehoy, hobdehoy.] Etym: [ Cf. Prob. E. hobbledygee with a limping movement; also F. hobereau, a country squire, E. hobby, and OF. hoi to-day; perh. the orig. sense was, an upstart of to-day.]  A youth between boy and man; an awkward, gawky young fellow . [Colloq.] All the men, boys, and hobbledehoys attached to the farm. Dickens. . 

HOBBLER:  One who hobbles. 

HOBBLER:  One who by his tenure was to maintain a horse for military service; a kind of light horseman in the Middle Ages who was mounted on a hobby. Hallam. Sir J. Davies.  HOBBLE SKIRT Hob"ble skirt.  A woman's skirt so scant at the bottom as to restrain freedom of movement after the fashion of a hobble. -- Hob"ble-skirt`ed, a. 

HOBBLINGLY:  With a limping step. 

HOBBLY:  Rough; uneven; causing one to hobble; as a hobbly road. 

HOBBY:  A small, strong-winged European falcon (Falco subbuteo), formerly trained for hawking.  HOBBY; HOBBYHORSE Hob"by, Hob"by*horse`, n. Etym: [OE. hobin a nag, OF. hobin hobby; cf. hober to stir, move; prob. of German or Scand. origin; cf. Dan. hoppe a mare, dial. Sw. hoppa; perh. akin to E. hop to jump.]  1. A strong, active horse, of a middle size, said to have been originally from Ireland; an ambling nag. Johnson.  2. A stick, often with the head or figure of a horse, on which boys make believe to ride. [ Usually under the form hobbyhorse.]  3. A subject or plan upon which one is constantly setting off; a favorite and ever-recurring theme of discourse, thought, or effort; that which occupies one's attention unduly, or to the weariness of others; a ruling passion. [Usually under the form hobby.] Not one of them has any hobbyhorse, to use the phrase of Sterne. Macaulay. 

HOBBYHORSICAL:  Pertaining to, or having, a hobby or whim; eccentric; whimsical.[Colloq.] Sterne. 

HOBGOBLIN:  A frightful goblin; an imp; a bugaboo; also, a name formerly given to the household spirit, Robin Goodfellow. Macaulay. 

HOBILER:  A light horseman. See 2d Hobbler. [Obs.] Brande & C. 

HOBIT:  A small mortar on a gun carriage, in use before the howitzer. 

HOBNAIL:  To tread down roughly, as with hobnailed shoes. Your rights and charters hobnailed into slush. Tennyson. 

HOBNAILED:  See with hobnails, as a shoe. 

HOBNOB:  Familiar, social intercourse. W. Black. 

HOBO:  A professional tramp; one who spends his life traveling from place to place, esp. by stealing rides on trains, and begging for a living. [U. S.] -- Ho"bo*ism (#), n. 

HOBORNOB:  See Hobnob. 

HOBOY:  A hautboy or oboe. [Obs.]  HOBSON'S CHOICE Hob"son's choice".  A choice without an alternative; the thing offered or nothing.  Note: It is said to have had its origin in the name of one Hobson, at Cambridge, England, who let horses, and required every customer to take in his turn the horse which stood next the stable door. 

HOCCO:  The crested curassow; -- called also royal pheasant. See Curassow. 

HOCHEPOT:  Hotchpot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOCK:  A Rhenish wine, of a light yellow color, either sparkling or still. The name is also given indiscriminately to all Rhenish wines.  HOCK; HOUGH Hock, Hough (, n. Etym: [ AS. h the heel; prob. akin to Icel. hasinn hock sinew, Dan. hasc, G. hechse, hächse, LG. hacke, D.hak; also to L. coxa hip (cf. Cuisses), Skr. kaksha armpit. sq. root12. Cf. Heel.]  1. (a) The joint in the hind limb of quadrupeds between the leg and shank, or tibia and tarsus, and corresponding to the ankle in man. (b) A piece cut by butchers, esp. in pork, from either the front or hind leg, just above the foot.  2. The popliteal space; the ham. 

HOCK:  To disable by cutting the tendons of the hock; to hamstring; to hough. 

HOCKAMORE:  A Rhenish wine. [Obs.] See Hock. Hudibras. 

HOCKDAY:  A holiday commemorating the expulsion of the Danes, formerly observed on the second Tuesday after Easter; -- called also hocktide. [Eng.] [Written also hokeday.] 

HOCKHERB:  The mallow. 

HOCUS:  To cheat. [Colloq.] L'Estrange. 

HODDENGRAY:  Applied to coarse cloth made of undyed wool, formerly worn by Scotch peasants. [Scot.] 

HODDY:  See Dun crow, under Dun, a. 

HODDYDODDY:  An awkward or foolish person. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

HODGEPODGE:  A mixed mass; a medley. See Hotchpot. Johnson.  HODGKIN'S DISEASE Hodg`kin's dis*ease". (Med.)  A morbid condition characterized by progressive anæmia and enlargement of the lymphatic glands; -- first described by Dr. Hodgkin, an English physician.  HODIERN; HODIERNAL Ho"di*ern, Ho`di*er"nal, a. Etym: [L. hodiernus, fr. hodie today.]  Of this day; belonging to the present day. [R.] Boyle. Quart. Rev. 

HODMAN:  A man who carries a hod; a mason's tender. 

HODMANDOD:  See Dodman. Bacon. 

HODOGRAPH:  A curve described by the moving extremity of a line the other end of which is fixed, this line being constantly parallel to the direction of motion of, and having its length constantly proportional to the velocity of, a point moving in any path; -used in investigations respecting central forces. 

HODOMETER:  See Odometer. 

HOE:  The horned or piked dogfish. See Dogfish. Dutch hoe, one having the blade set for use in the manner of a spade.  -- Horse hoe, a kind of cultivator. 

HOE:  To cut, dig, scrape, turn, arrange, or clean, with a hoe; as, to hoe the earth in a garden; also, to clear from weeds, or to loosen or arrange the earth about, with a hoe; as, to hoe corn. To hoe one's row, to do one's share of a job. [Colloq.] 

HOE:  To use a hoe; to labor with a hoe. 

HOECAKE:  A cake of Indian meal, water, and salt, baked before the fire or in the ashes; -- so called because often cooked on a hoe. [Southern U.S.] 

HOEMOTHER:  The basking or liver shark; -- called also homer. See Liver shark, under Liver. 

HOFUL:  Careful; wary. [Obs.] Stapleton. 

HOG:  A quadruped of the genus Sus, and allied genera of Suidæ; esp., the domesticated varieties of S. scrofa, kept for their fat and meat, called, respectively, lard and pork; swine; porker; specifically, a castrated boar; a barrow.  Note: The domestic hogs of Siam, China, and parts of Southern Europe, are thought to have been derived from Sus Indicus.  2. A mean, filthy, or gluttonous fellow. [Low.]  3. A young sheep that has not been shorn. [Eng.]  4. (Naut.)  A rough, flat scrubbing broom for scrubbing a ship's bottom under water. Totten.  5. (Paper Manuf.) A device for mixing and stirring the pulp of which paper is made. Bush hog, Ground hog, etc. See under Bush, Ground, etc.  -- Hog caterpillar (Zoöl.), the larva of the green grapevine sphinx; -- so called because the head and first three segments are much smaller than those behind them, so as to make a resemblance to a hog's snout. See Hawk moth.  -- Hog cholera, an epidemic contagious fever of swine, attended by liquid, fetid, diarrhea, and by the appearance on the skin and mucous membrane of spots and patches of a scarlet, purple, or black color. It is fatal in from one to six days, or ends in a slow, uncertain recovery. Law (Farmer's Veter. Adviser. )-- Hog deer (Zoöl.), the axis deer.  -- Hog gum (Bot.), West Indian tree (Symphonia globulifera), yielding an aromatic gum.  -- Hog of wool, the trade name for the fleece or wool of sheep of the second year.  -- Hog peanut (Bot.), a kind of earth pea.  -- Hog plum (Bot.), a tropical tree, of the genus Spondias (S. lutea), with fruit somewhat resembling plums, but chiefly eaten by hogs. It is found in the West Indies.  -- Hog's bean (Bot.), the plant henbane.  -- Hog's bread.(Bot.) See Sow bread.  -- Hog's fennel. (Bot.) See under Fennel.  -- Mexican hog (Zoöl.), the peccary.  -- Water hog. (Zoöl.) See Capybara. 

HOG:  To scrub with a hog, or scrubbing broom. 

HOG:  To become bent upward in the middle, like a hog's back; -- said of a ship broken or strained so as to have this form. 

HOGBACK:  An upward curve or very obtuse angle in the upper surface of any member, as of a timber laid horizontally; -- the opposite of camber.  2. (Naut.)  See Hogframe.  3. (Geol.)  A ridge formed by tilted strata; hence, any ridge with a sharp summit, and steeply sloping sides. 

HOGCHAIN:  A chain or tie rod, in a boat or barge, to prevent the vessel from hogging. 

HOGCHOKER:  An American sole (Achirus lineatus, or A. achirus), related to the European sole, but of no market value. 

HOGCOTE:  A shed for swine; a sty. 

HOGFRAME:  A trussed frame extending fore and aft, usually above deck, and intended to increase the longitudinal strength and stiffness. Used chiefly in American river and lake steamers. Called also hogging frame, and hogback. 

HOGGED:  Broken or strained so as to have an upward curve between the ends. See Hog, v. i. 

HOGGER:  A stocking without a foot, worn by coal miners at work. 

HOGGEREL:  A sheep of the second year. [Written also hogrel.] Ash.  HOGGER-PIPE; HOGGERPIPE Hog"ger*-pipe`, n. (Mining)  The upper terminal pipe of a mining pump. Raymond.  HOGGER-PUMP Hog"ger-pump", n. (Mining)  The for pump in the pit. Raymond. 

HOGGERY:  Hoggish character or manners; selfishness; greed; beastliness. Crime and shame And all their hoggery. Mrs. Browning. 

HOGGING:  Drooping at the ends; arching;-in distinction from sagging. Hogging frame. See Hogframe. 

HOGGISH:  Swinish; gluttonous; filthy; selfish.  -- Hog"gish*ly, adv.  -- Hog"gish*ness, n. Is not a hoggish life the height of some men's wishes Shaftesbury. 

HOGH:  A hill; a cliff. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HOGHERD:  A swineherd. W. Browne. 

HOGMANAY:  The old name, in Scotland, for the last day of the year, on which children go about singing, and receive a dole of bread or cakes; also, the entertainment given on that day to a visitor, or the gift given to an applicant. [Scot.] 

HOGNOSESNAKE:  A harmless North American snake of the genus Heterodon, esp. H. platyrhynos; -- called also puffing adder, blowing adder, and sand viper. 

HOGO:  High flavor; strong scent. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

HOGPEN:  A pen or sty for hogs. 

HOGREEVE:  A civil officer charged with the duty of impounding hogs running at large. [New Eng.] Bartlett. 

HOGRINGER:  One who puts rings into the snouts of hogs.  HOG'S-BACK Hog's"-back`, n. (Geol.)  A hogback. 

HOGSCORE:  A distance lime brawn across the rink or course between the middle line and the tee. [Scot.] 

HOGSKIN:  Leather tanned from a hog's skin. Also used adjectively. 

HOGSTY:  A pen, house, or inclosure, for hogs. 

HOGWASH:  Swill. Arbuthnot. 

HOIDEN:  Rustic; rude; bold. Younq. 

HOIDEN:  To romp rudely or indecently. Swift. 

HOIDENHOOD:  State of being a hoiden. 

HOIDENISH:  Like, or appropriate to, a hoiden. 

HOISE:  To hoist. [Obs.] They . . . hoised up the mainsail to the wind. Acts xxvii. 40. 

HOIST:  To raise; to lift; to elevate; esp., to raise or lift to a desired elevation, by means of tackle, as a sail, a flag, a heavy package or weight. They land my goods, and hoist my flying sails. Pope. Hoisting him into his father's throne. South. Hoisting engine, a steam engine for operating a hoist. 

HOIST:  Hoisted. [Obs.] 'Tis the sport to have the enginer Hoist with his own petar. Shak. 

HOISTAWAY:  A mechanical lift. See Elevator. 

HOISTWAY:  An opening for the hoist, or 

HOIT:  To leap; to caper; to romp noisily. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  HOITY-TOITY Hoi"ty-toi`ty, a. Etym: [From Hoit.]  Thoughtless; giddy; flighty; also, haughty; patronizing; as, to be in hoity-toity spirits, or to assume hoity-toity airs; used also as an exclamation, denoting surprise or disapprobation, with some degree of contempt. Hoity-toity! What have I to do with dreams Congreve. 

HOKEDAY:  Same as Hockday. 

HOKER:  Scorn; derision; abusive talk. [Obs.] -- Ho"ker*ly, adv. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOL:  Whole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOLARCTIC:  Of or pert. to the arctic regions collectively; specif. (Zoögeography),  designating a realm or region including the northern parts of the Old and the New World. It comprises the Palearctic and Nearctic regions or subregions. 

HOLASPIDEAN:  Having a single series of large scutes on the posterior side of the tarsus; -- said of certain birds. 

HOLCAD:  A large ship of burden, in ancient Greece. Mitford. 

HOLD:  The whole interior portion of a vessel below the lower deck, in which the cargo is stowed. 

HOLD:  In general, to keep one's self in a given position or condition; to remain fixed. Hence:  1. Not to more; to halt; to stop;-mostly in the imperative. And damned be him that first cries, "Hold, enough!" Shak.  2. Not to give way; not to part or become separated; to remain unbroken or unsubdued. Our force by land hath nobly held. Shak.  3. Not to fail or be found wanting; to continue; to last; to endure a test or trial; to abide; to persist. While our obedience holds. Milton. The rule holds in land as all other commodities. Locke.  4. Not to fall away, desert, or prove recreant; to remain attached; to cleave;-often with with, to, or for. He will hold to the one and despise the other. Matt. vi. 24  5. To restrain one's self; to refrain. His dauntless heart would fain have held From weeping, but his eyes rebelled. Dryden.  6. To derive right or title; -- generally with of. My crown is absolute, and holds of none. Dryden. His imagination holds immediately from nature. Hazlitt. Hold on! Hold up! wait; stop; forbear. [Collog] -- To hold forth, to speak in public; to harangue; to preach. L'Estrange.  -- To hold in, to restrain one's self; as, he wanted to laugh and could hardly hold in.  -- To hold off, to keep at a distance.  -- To hold on, to keep fast hold; to continue; to go on. "The trade held on for many years," Swift.  -- To hold out, to last; to endure; to continue; to maintain one's self; not to yield or give way.  -- To hold over, to remain in office, possession, etc., beyond a certain date.  -- To hold to or with, to take sides with, as a person or opinion.  -- To hold together, to be joined; not to separate; to remain in union. Dryden. Locke.  -- To hold up. (a) To support one's self; to remain unbent or unbroken; as, to hold up under misfortunes. (b) To cease raining; to cease to stop; as, it holds up. Hudibras. (c) To keep up; not to fall behind; not to lose ground. Collier. 

HOLD:  A character [thus pause, and corona. 

HOLDER:  One who is employed in the hold of a vessel. 

HOLDER:  The payee of a bill of exchange or a promissory note, or the one who owns or holds it.  Note: Holder is much used as the second part of a compound; as, shareholder, officeholder, stockholder,etc.  HOLDER-FORTH Hold"er-forth`, n.  One who speaks in public; an haranguer; a preacher. Addison. 

HOLDFAST:  A conical or branching body, by which a seaweed is attached to its support, and differing from a root in that it is not specially absorbent of moisture. 

HOLE:  Whole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOLE:  To go or get into a hole. B. Jonson.  HOLE IN THE AIR Hole in the air. (Aëronautics)  = Air hole, above. 

HOLETHNIC:  Of or pertaining to a holethnos or parent race. The holethnic history of the Arians. London Academy. 

HOLETHNOS:  A parent stock or race of people, not yet divided into separate branches or tribes. 

HOLIBUT:  See Halibut. 

HOLIDAM:  See Halidom. 

HOLIDAY:  A day fixed by law for suspension of business; a legal holiday.  Note: In the United States legal holidays, so called, are determined by law, commonly by the statutes of the several States. The holidays most generally observed are: the 22d day of February (Washington's birthday), the 30th day of May (Memorial day), the 4th day of July (Independence day), the 25th day of December (Christmas day). In most of the States the 1st day of January is a holiday. When any of these days falls on Sunday, usually the Monday following is observed as the holiday. In many of the States a day in the spring (as Good Friday, or the first Thursday in April), and a day in the fall (as the last Thursday in November) are now regularly appointed by Executive proclamation to be observed, the former as a day of fasting and prayer, the latter as a day of thanksgiving and are kept as holidays. In England, the days of the greater church feasts (designated in the calendar by a red letter, and commonly called red-letter days) are observed as general holidays. Bank holidays are those on which, by act of Parliament, banks may suspend business. Although Sunday is a holiday in the sense of a day when business is legally suspended, it is not usually included in the general term, the phrase "Sundays and holidays" being more common. The holidays, any fixed or usual period for relaxation or festivity; especially, Christmas and New Year's day with the intervening time. 

HOLING:  Undercutting in a bed of coal, in order to bring down the upper mass. Raymond. 

HOLLA:  Hollo. 

HOLLA:  See Hollo, v. i. 

HOLLAND:  A kind of linen first manufactured in Holland; a linen fabric used for window shades, children's garments, etc.; as, brown or unbleached hollands.  HOLLANDAISE SAUCE; HOLLANDAISE Hol`lan*daise" sauce, or Hol`lan*daise", n. [F. hollandaise, fem. of hollandais Dutch.] (Cookery)  A sauce consisting essentially of a seasoned emulsion of butter and yolk of eggs with a little lemon juice or vinegar. 

HOLLANDISH:  Relating to Holland; Dutch. 

HOLLANDS:  See Holland. 

HOLLO:  Ho there; stop; attend; hence, a loud cry or a call to attract attention; a halloo. And every day, for food or play, Came to the mariner's hollo. Coleridge. 

HOLLO:  To call out or exclaim; to halloo. 

HOLLOA:  Same as Hollo. 

HOLLOW:  To make hollow, as by digging, cutting, or engraving; to excavate. "Trees rudely hollowed." Dryden. 

HOLLOW:  Wholly; completely; utterly; -- chiefly after the verb to beat, and often with all; as, this story beats the other all hollow. See All, adv. [Collog.] The more civilized so-called Caucasian races have beaten the Turks hollow in the struggle for existence. Darwin. 

HOLLOW:  Hollo. 

HOLLOW:  To shout; to hollo. Whisperings and hollowings are alike to a deaf ear. Fuller. 

HOLLOW:  To urge or call by shouting. He has hollowed the hounds. Sir W. Scott.  HOLLOW-HEARTED Hol"low-heart`ed, a.  Insincere; deceitful; not sound and true; having a cavity or decayed spot within.  Syn.  -- Faithless; dishonest; false; treacherous.  HOLLOW-HORNED Hol"low-horned`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having permanent horns with a bony core, as cattle. 

HOLLOWLY:  Insincerely; deceitfully. Shak. 

HOLLUSCHICKIE:  A young male fur seal, esp. one from three to six years old; -- called also bachelor, because prevented from breeding by the older full-grown males.   The holluschickie are the seals that may legally be killed for their skins.  But he'll lie down on the killing grounds where the holluschickie go. Kipling. 

HOLLY:  Wholly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOLLY:  A tree or shrub of the genus Ilex. The European species (Ilex Aguifolium) is best known, having glossy green leaves, with a spiny, waved edge, and bearing berries that turn red or yellow about Michaelmas.  Note: The holly is much used to adorn churches and houses, at Christmas time, and hence is associated with scenes of good will and rejoicing. It is an evergreen tree, and has a finegrained, heavy, white wood. Its bark is used as a febrifuge, and the berries are violently purgative and emetic. The American holly is the Ilex opaca, and is found along the coast of the United States, from Maine southward. Gray.  2. (Bot.)  The holm oak. See 1st Holm. Holly-leaved oak (Bot.), the black scrub oak. See Scrub oak.  -- Holly rose (Bot.), a West Indian shrub, with showy, yellow flowers (Turnera ulmifolia).  -- Sea holly (Bot.), a species of Eryngium. See Eryngium. 

HOLLYHOCK:  A species of Althæa (A. rosea), bearing flowers of various colors; -- called also rose mallow. 

HOLM:  A common evergreen oak, of Europe (Quercus Ilex); -- called also ilex, and holly. 

HOLMIA:  An oxide of holmium. 

HOLMIUM:  A rare element said to be contained in gadolinite.  -- Hol"mic, a. 

HOLMOS:  A name given to a vase having a rounded body; esp.: (a) A closed vessel of nearly spherical form on a high stem or pedestal. Fairholt. (b) A drinking cup having a foot and stem.  HOLO- Hol"o-.  A combining form fr. Gr. "o`los whole. 

HOLOBLAST:  an ovum composed entirely of germinal matter. See Meroblast. 

HOLOBLASTIC:  Undergoing complete segmentation; composed entirely of germinal matter, the whole of the yolk undergoing fission; -- opposed to meroblastic. 

HOLOCEPHALI:  An order of elasmobranch fishes, including, among living species, only the chimæras; -- called also Holocephala. See Chimæra; also Illustration in Appendix. 

HOLOCRYPTIC:  Wholly or completely concealing; incapable of being deciphered. Holocryptic cipher, a cipher so constructed as to afford no clew to its meaning to one ignorant of the key. 

HOLOCRYSTALLINE:  Completely crystalline; -- said of a rock like granite, all the constituents of which are crystalline. 

HOLOGRAPH:  A document, as a letter, deed, or will, wholly in the handwriting of the person from whom it proceeds and whose act it purports to be. 

HOLOGRAPHIC:  Of the nature of a holograph; pertaining to holographs. 

HOLOHEDRAL:  Having all the planes required by complete symmetry, -- in opposition to hemihedral. 

HOLOHEMIHEDRAL:  Presenting hemihedral forms, in which all the sectants have halt the whole number of planes. Dana. 

HOLOMETABOLA:  Those insects which have a complete metamorphosis; metabola. 

HOLOMETABOLIC:  Having a complete metamorphosis;-said of certain insects, as the butterflies and bees. 

HOLOMETER:  An instrument for making of angular measurements. 

HOLOPHANEROUS:  Same as Holometabolic. 

HOLOPHOTAL:  Causing no loss of light; -- applied to reflectors which throw back the rays of light without perceptible loss. 

HOLOPHOTE:  A lamp with lenses or reflectors to collect the rays of light and throw them in a given direction; -- used in lighthouses. 

HOLOPHRASTIC:  Expressing a phrase or sentence in a single word, -- as is the case in the aboriginal languages of America. 

HOLOPHYTIC:  Wholly or distinctively vegetable. Holophytic nutrition (, that form of nutrition, characteristic of vegetable organisms, in which carbonic acid, ammonia, and nitrates are absorbed as food, in distinction from the animal mode of nutrition, by the ingestion of albuminous matter. 

HOLORHINAL:  Having the nasal bones contiguous. 

HOLOSIDERITE:  Meteoric iron; a meteorite consisting of metallic iron without stony matter. 

HOLOSTEAN:  Pertaining to the Holostei. 

HOLOSTEI:  An extensive division of ganoids, including the gar pike, bowfin, etc.; the bony ganoids. See Illustration in Appendix. 

HOLOSTERIC:  Wholly solid; -- said of a barometer constructed of solid materials to show the variations of atmospheric pressure without the use of liquids, as the aneroid. 

HOLOSTOMATA:  An artificial division of gastropods, including those that have an entire aperture. 

HOLOSTOMATE:  Same as Holostomatous. 

HOLOSTOMATOUS:  Having an entire aperture; -- said of many univalve shells. 

HOLOSTOME:  One of the Holostomata. 

HOLOSTRACA:  A division of phyllopod Crustacea, including those that are entirely covered by a bivalve shell. 

HOLOTHURE:  A holothurian. 

HOLOTHURIAN:  ( -- n.  One of the Holothurioidea.  Note: Some of the species of Holothurians are called sea cucumbers, sea slugs, trepang, and bêche de mèr. Many are used as food, esp. by the Chinese. See Trepang. 

HOLOTHURIOIDEA:  One of the classes of echinoderms.  Note: They have a more or less elongated body, often flattened beneath, and a circle of tentacles, which are usually much branched, surrounding the mouth; the skin is more or less flexible, and usually contains calcareous plates of various characteristic forms, sometimes becoming large and scalelike. Most of the species have five bands (ambulacra) of sucker-bearing feet along the sides; in others these are lacking. In one group (Pneumonophora) two branching internal gills are developed; in another (Apneumona) these are wanting. Called also Holothurida, Holothuridea, and Holothuroidea. 

HOLOTRICHA:  A group of ciliated Infusoria, having cilia all over the body. 

HOLOUR:  A whoremonger. [Obs.] Chaucer.  HOLP; HOLPEN Holp, Hol"pen,  imp. & p. p. of Help. [Obs.] Shak. 

HOLSOM:  Wholesome. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOLSTEIN:  One of a breed of cattle, originally from Schleswig-Holstein, valued for the large amount of milk produced by the cows. The color is usually black and white in irregular patches. 

HOLSTER:  A leather case for a pistol, carried by a horseman at the bow of his saddle. 

HOLSTERED:  Bearing holsters. Byron. 

HOLT:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contr. from holdeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOLWE:  Hollow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOLY:  The cross as the symbol of Christ's crucifixion. Congregation of the Holy Cross (R. C. Ch.), a community of lay brothers and priests, in France and the United States, engaged chiefly in teaching and manual Labor. Originally called Brethren of St. Joseph. The Sisters of the Holy Cross engage in similar work. Addis & Arnold.  -- Holy-cross day, the fourteenth of September, observed as a church festival, in memory of the exaltation of our Savior's cross. 

HOLYSTONE:  A stone used by seamen for scrubbing the decks of ships. Totten. 

HOLYSTONE:  To scrub with a holystone, as the deck of a vessel. 

HOMACANTH:  Having the dorsal fin spines symmetrical, and in the same line; -- said of certain fishes. 

HOMAGE:  A symbolical acknowledgment made by a feudal tenant to, and in the presence of, his lord, on receiving investiture of fee, or coming to it by succession, that he was his man, or vassal; profession of fealty to a sovereign.  2. Respect or reverential regard; deference; especially, respect paid by external action; obeisance. All things in heaven and earth do her [Law] homage. Hooker. I sought no homage from the race that write. Pope.  3. Reverence directed to the Supreme Being; reverential worship; devout affection. Chaucer.  Syn.  -- Fealty; submission; reverence; honor; respect.  -- Homage, Fealty. Homage was originally the act of a feudal tenant by which he declared himself, on his knees, to be the hommage or bondman of the lord; hence the term is used to denote reverential submission or respect. Fealty was originally the fidelity of such a tenant to his lord, and hence the term denotes a faithful and solemn adherence to the obligations we owe to superior power or authority. We pay our homage to men of preëminent usefulness and virtue, and profess our fealty to the principles by which they have been guided. Go, go with homage yon proud victors meet ! Go, lie like dogs beneath your masters' feet ! Dryden. Man, disobeying, Disloyal, breaks his fealty, and sins Against the high supremacy of heaven. Milton. 

HOMAGEABLE:  Subject to homage. Howell. 

HOMAGER:  One who does homage, or holds land of another by homage; a vassal. Bacon. 

HOMALOGRAPHIC:  Same as Homolographic.  HOMALOID; HOMALOIDAL Hom"a*loid, Hom`a*loid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Geom.)  Flat; even; -- a term applied to surfaces and to spaces, whether real or imagined, in which the definitions, axioms, and postulates of Euclid respecting parallel straight lines are assumed to hold true. 

HOMARUS:  A genus of decapod Crustacea, including the common lobsters.  -- Hom"a*roid, a. 

HOMATROPINE:  An alkaloid, prepared from atropine, and from other sources. It is chemically related to atropine, and is used for the same purpose. 

HOMAXONIAL:  Relating to that kind of homology or symmetry, the mathematical conception of organic form, in which all axes are equal. See under Promorphology. 

HOME:  See Homelyn. 

HOME:  The home base; he started for home. At home.(a) At one's own house, or lodgings. (b) In one's own town or country; as, peace abroad and at home. (c) Prepared to receive callers.  -- Home department, the department of executive administration, by which the internal affairs of a country are managed. [Eng.] To be at home on any subject, to be conversant or familiar with it.  -- To feel at home, to be at one's ease.  -- To make one's self at home, to conduct one's self with as much freedom as if at home.  Syn.  -- Tenement; house; dwelling; abode; domicile. 

HOMEBORN:  Kept at home.  HOME-BRED Home"-bred`, a.  1. Bred at home; domestic; not foreign. " Home-bred mischief." Milton. Benignity and home-bred sense. Wordsworth.  2. Not polished; rude; uncultivated. Only to me home-bred youths belong. Dryden.  HOME-COMING Home-com`ing, n.  Return home. Kepeth this child, al be it foul or fayr, And eek my wyf, unto myn hoom-cominge. Chaucer.  HOME-DRIVEN Home"-driv`en, a.  Driven to the end, as a nail; driven close.  HOME-DWELLING Home"-dwell`ing, a.  Keeping at home.  HOME-FELT Home"-felt`, a.  Felt in one's own breast; inward; private. "Home-felt quiet. Pope. 

HOMEFIELD:  Afield adjacent to its owner's home. Hawthorne.  HOME-KEEPING Home"-keep`ing, a.  Staying at home; not gadding. Home-keeping youth have ever homely wits. Shak.  HOME-KEEPING Home"-keep`ing, n.  A staying at home. 

HOMELESS:  Destitute of a home.  -- Home"less*ness, n. 

HOMELIKE:  Like a home; comfortable; cheerful; cozy; friendly. 

HOMELILY:  Plainly; inelegantly. [R.] 

HOMELING:  A person or thing belonging to a home or to a particular country; a native; as, a word which is a homeling. Trench. 

HOMELY:  Plainly; rudely; coarsely; as, homely dressed. [R.] Spenser. 

HOMELYN:  The European sand ray (Raia maculata); -- called also home, mirror ray, and rough ray. 

HOMEMADE:  Made at home; of domestic manufacture; made either in a private family or in one's own country. Locke. 

HOMEOPATH:  A practitioner of homeopathy. [Written also homoeopath.] 

HOMEOPATHIC:  Of or pertaining to homeopathy; according to the principles of homeopathy. [Also homoepathic.] 

HOMEOPATHICALLY:  According to the practice of homeopathy. [Also homoepathically.] 

HOMEOPATHIST:  A believer in, or practitioner of, homeopathy. [Written also homoepathist.] 

HOMEOPATHY:  The art of curing, founded on resemblances; the theory and its practice that disease is cured (tuto, cito, et jucunde) by remedies which produce on a healthy person effects similar to the symptoms of the complaint under which the patient suffers, the remedies being usually administered in minute doses. This system was founded by Dr. Samuel Hahnemann, and is opposed to allopathy, or heteropathy. [Written also homoepathy.] 

HOMER:  A carrier pigeon remarkable for its ability to return home from a distance. 

HOMER:  See Hoemother. 

HOMER:  A Hebrew measure containing, as a liquid measure, ten baths, equivalent to fifty-five gallons, two quarts, one pint; and, as a dry measure, ten ephahs, equivalent to six bushels, two pecks, four quarts. [Written also chomer, gomer.] 

HOMERIC:  Of or pertaining to Homer, the most famous of Greek poets; resembling the poetry of Homer. Homeric verse, hexameter verse; -- so called because used by Homer in his epics. 

HOMESICK:  Pining for home; in a nostalgic condition.  -- Home"sick`ness, n.  HOME-SPEAKING Home"-speak`ing, n.  Direct, forcible, and effective speaking. Milton. 

HOMESTALL:  Place of a home; homestead. Cowper. 

HOMESTEAD:  The home and appurtenant land and buildings owned by the head of a family, and occupied by him and his family. Homestead law. (a) A law conferring special privileges or exemptions upon owners of homesteads; esp., a law exempting a homestead from attachment or sale under execution for general debts. Such laws, with limitations as to the extent or value of the property, exist in most of the States. Called also homestead exemption law. (b) Also, a designation of an Act of Congress authorizing and regulating the sale of public lands, in parcels of 160 acres each, to actual settlers. [U.S.] 

HOMESTEADER:  One who has entered upon a portion of the public land with the purpose of acquiring ownership of it under provisions of the homestead law, so called; one who has acquired a homestead in this manner. [Local, U.S.] 

HOMEWARD:  Being in the direction of home; as, the homeward way.  HOMEWARD; HOMEWARDS Home"ward, Home"wards, adv. Etym: [AS. hamweard.]  Toward home; in the direction of one's house, town, or country. Homeward bound, bound for home; going homeward; as, the homeward bound fleet. 

HOMICIDAL:  Pertaining to homicide; tending to homicide; murderous. 

HOMIFORM:  In human form. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

HOMILETE:  A homilist.  HOMILETIC; HOMILETICAL Hom`i*let"ic, Hom`i*let"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. homilétique. See Homily.]  1. Of or pertaining to familiar intercourse; social; affable; conversable; companionable. [R.] His virtues active, chiefly, and homiletical, not those lazy, sullen ones of the cloister. Atterbury.  2. Of or pertaining to homiletics; hortatory. 

HOMILETICS:  The art of preaching; that branch of theology which treats of homilies or sermons, and the best method of preparing and delivering them. 

HOMILIST:  One who prepares homilies; one who preaches to a congregation. 

HOMILITE:  A borosilicate of iron and lime, near datolite in form and composition. 

HOMING:  Home-returning; -- used specifically of carrier pigeons. 

HOMINY:  Maize hulled and broken, and prepared for food by being boiled in water. [U.S.] [Written also homony.] 

HOMISH:  Like a home or a home circle. Quiet, cheerful, homish hospital life. E. E. Hale. 

HOMMOCK:  A small eminence of a conical form, of land or of ice; a knoll; a hillock. See Hummock. Bartram. 

HOMMOCKY:  Filled with hommocks; piled in the form of hommocks; -- said of ice.  HOMO- Ho"mo-.  A combining form from Gr. "omo`s, one and the same, common, joint. 

HOMOCATEGORIC:  Belonging to the same category of individuality; -- a morphological term applied to organisms so related. 

HOMOCENTRIC:  Having the same center. 

HOMOCERCAL:  Having the tail nearly or quite symmetrical, the vertebral column terminating near its base; -- opposed to heterocercal. 

HOMOCERCY:  The possession of a homocercal tail. 

HOMOCEREBRIN:  A body similar to, or identical with, cerebrin. 

HOMOCHROMOUS:  Having all the florets in the same flower head of the same color. 

HOMODEMIC:  A morphological term signifying development, in the case of multicellular organisms, from the same unit deme or unit of the inferior orders of individuality. 

HOMODERMIC:  Relating to homodermy; originating from the same germ layer. 

HOMODERMY:  Homology of the germinal layers. 

HOMODONT:  Having all the teeth similar in front, as in the porpoises; -- opposed to heterodont.  HOMODROMAL; HOMODROMOUS Ho*mod"ro*mal, Ho*mod"ro*mous, a. Etym: [Homo- + Gr.  1. (Bot.)  Running in the same direction; -- said of stems twining round a support, or of the spiral succession of leaves on stems and their branches.  2. (Mech.)  Moving in the same direction; -- said of a lever or pulley in which the resistance and the actuating force are both on the same side of the fulcrum or axis. 

HOMODYNAMIC:  Homodynamous. Quain. 

HOMODYNAMOUS:  Pertaining to, or involving, homodynamy; as, successive or homodynamous parts in plants and animals. 

HOMODYNAMY:  The homology of metameres. See Metamere. Gegenbaur. 

HOMOEOMERIA:  The state or quality of being homogeneous in elements or first principles; likeness or identity of parts.  HOMOEOMERIC; HOMOEOMERICAL Ho`moe*o*mer"ic, Ho`moe*o*mer"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to, or characterized by, sameness of parts; receiving or advocating the doctrine of homogeneity of elements or first principles. 

HOMOEOMEROUS:  Having the main artery of the leg parallel with the sciatic nerve; -- said of certain birds. 

HOMOEOMERY:  Same as Homoeomeria. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

HOMOEOMORPHISM:  A near similarity of crystalline forms between unlike chemical compounds. See Isomorphism. 

HOMOEOMORPHOUS:  Manifesting homoeomorphism.  HOMOEOPATHIC; HOMOEOPATHIST; HOMOEOPATHY Ho`moe*o*path"ic, a., Ho`moe*op"a*thist, n., Ho`moe*op"a*thy, n.  Same as Homeopathic, Homeopathist, Homeopathy. 

HOMOEOTHERMAL:  See Homoiothermal. 

HOMOEOZOIC:  Pertaining to, or including, similar forms or kinds of life; as, homoeozoic belts on the earth's surface. E. Forbes. 

HOMOGAMOUS:  Having all the flowers alike; -- said of such composite plants as Eupatorium, and the thistels. 

HOMOGAMY:  The condition of being homogamous. 

HOMOGANGLIATE:  Having the ganglia of the nervous system symmetrically arranged, as in certain invertebrates; -- opposed to heterogangliate. 

HOMOGENE:  Homogeneous. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

HOMOGENEAL:  Homogeneous. 

HOMOGENEALNESS:  Homogeneousness. 

HOMOGENEITY:  Same as Homogeneousness. 

HOMOGENEOUS:  Possessing the same number of factors of a given kind; as, a homogeneous polynomial. 

HOMOGENEOUSNESS:  Sameness 9kind or nature; uniformity of structure or material. 

HOMOGENESIS:  That method of reproduction in which the successive generations are alike, the offspring, either animal or plant, running through the same cycle of existence as the parent; gamogenesis; -- opposed to heterogenesis. 

HOMOGENETIC:  Homogenous; -- applied to that class of homologies which arise from similarity of structure, and which are taken as evidences of common ancestry. 

HOMOGENOUS:  Having a resemblance in structure, due to descent from a common progenitor with subsequent modification; homogenetic; -- applied both to animals and plants. See Homoplastic. 

HOMOGENY:  The correspondence of common descent; -- a term used to supersede homology by Lankester, who also used homoplasy to denote any superinduced correspondence of position and structure in parts embryonically distinct (other writers using the term homoplasmy). Thus, there is homogeny between the fore limb of a mammal and the wing of a bird; but the right and left ventricles of the heart in both are only in homoplasy with each other, these having arisen independently since the divergence of both groups from a univentricular ancestor. 

HOMOGONOUS:  Having all the flowers of a plant alike in respect to the stamens and pistils. 

HOMOGONY:  The condition of having homogonous flowers. 

HOMOGRAPH:  One of two or more words identical in orthography, but having different derivations and meanings; as, fair, n., a market, and fair, a., beautiful. 

HOMOGRAPHIC:  Possessing the property of homography. 

HOMOGRAPHY:  A relation between two figures, such that to any point of the one corresponds one and but one point in the other, and vise versa. Thus, a tangent line rolling on a circle cuts two fixed tangents of the circle in two sets of points that are homographic. 

HOMOIOPTOTON:  A figure in which the several parts of a sentence end with the same case, or inflection generally. 

HOMOIOTHERMAL:  Maintaining a uniform temperature; hæmatothermal; homothermic; -- applied to warm-bodied animals, because they maintain a nearly uniform temperature in spite of the great variations in the surrounding air; in distinct from the cold-blooded (poikilothermal) animals, whose body temperature follows the variations in temperature of the surrounding medium. 

HOMOIOUSIAN:  One of the semi-Arians of the 4th century, who held that the Son was of like, but not the same, essence or substance with the Father; -- opposed to homoousian. 

HOMOIOUSIAN:  Of or pertaining to Homoiousians, or their belief. 

HOMOLOGATE:  To approve; to allow; to confirm; as, the court homologates a proceeding. Wheaton. 

HOMOLOGATION:  Confirmation or ratification (as of something otherwise null and void), by a court or a grantor. 

HOMOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to homology; having a structural affinity proceeding from, or base upon, that kind of relation termed homology.  -- Ho`mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

HOMOLOGINIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, homology; as, homologinic qualities, or differences. 

HOMOLOGIZE:  To determine the homologies or structural relations of. 

HOMOLOGON:  See Homologue. 

HOMOLOGOUMENA:  Those books of the New Testament which were acknowledged as canonical by the early church; -- distinguished from antilegomena. 

HOMOLOGOUS:  Having the same relative position, proportion, value, or structure. Especially: (a) (Geom.) Corresponding in relative position and proportion. In similar polygons, the corresponding sides, angles, diagonals, etc., are homologous. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ). (b) (Alg.)  Having the same relative proportion or value, as the two antecedents or the two consequents of a proportion. (c) (Chem.) Characterized by homology; belonging to the same type or series; corresponding in composition and properties. See Homology,  3. (d) (Biol.) Being of the same typical structure; having like relations to a fundamental type to structure; as, those bones in the hand of man and the fore foot of a horse are homologous that correspond in their structural relations, that is, in thier relations to the type structure of the fore limb in vertebrates. Homologous stimulus. (Physiol.) See under Stimulus. 

HOMOLOGRAPHIC:  Preserving the mutual relations of parts, especially as to size and form; maintaining relative proportion. Homolographic projection, a method of constructing geographical charts or maps, so that the surfaces, as delineated on a plane, have the same relative size as the real surfaces; that is, so that the relative actual areas of the different countries are accurately represented by the corresponding portions of the map. 

HOMOLOGUE:  That which is homologous to something else; as, the corresponding sides, etc., of similar polygons are the homologues of each other; the members or terms of an homologous series in chemistry are the homologues of each other; one of the bones in the hand of man is the homologue of that in the paddle of a whale. 

HOMOLOGY:  Correspondence or relation in type of structure in contradistinction to similarity of function; as, the relation in structure between the leg and arm of a man; or that between the arm of a man, the fore leg of a horse, the wing of a bird, and the fin of a fish, all these organs being modifications of one type of structure.  Note: Homology indicates genetic relationship, and according to Haeckel special homology should be defined in terms of identity of embryonic origin. See Homotypy, and Homogeny.  3. (Chem.)  The correspondence or resemblance of substances belonging to the same type or series; a similarity of composition varying by a small, regular difference, and usually attended by a regular variation in physical properties; as, there is an homology between methane, CH4, ethane, C2H6, propane, C3H8, etc., all members of the paraffin series. In an extended sense, the term is applied to the relation between chemical elements of the same group; as, chlorine, bromine, and iodine are said to be in homology with each other. Cf. Heterology. General homology (Biol.), the higher relation which a series of parts, or a single part, bears to the fundamental or general type on which the group is constituted. Owen.  -- Serial homology (Biol.), representative or repetitive relation in the segments of the same organism, -- as in the lobster, where the parts follow each other in a straight line or series. Owen. See Homotypy.  -- Special homology (Biol.), the correspondence of a part or organ with those of a different animal, as determined by relative position and connection. Owen. 

HOMOMALLOUS:  Uniformly bending or curving to one side; -- said of leaves which grow on several sides of a stem.  HOMOMORPHIC; HOMOMORPHOUS Ho`mo*mor"phic, Ho`mo*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Gr.  Characterized by homomorphism. 

HOMOMORPHISM:  Same as Homomorphy.  2. (Bot.)  The possession, in one species of plants, of only one kind of flowers; -- opposed to heteromorphism, dimorphism, and trimorphism.  3. (Zoöl.)  The possession of but one kind of larvæ or young, as in most insects. 

HOMOMORPHY:  Similarity of form; resemblance in external characters, while widely different in fundamental structure; resemblance in geometric ground form. See Homophyly, Promorphology. 

HOMONOMOUS:  Of or pertaining to homonomy. 

HOMONOMY:  The homology of parts arranged on transverse axes. Haeckel. 

HOMONYM:  A word having the same sound as another, but differing from it in meaning; as the noun bear and the verb bear. [Written also homonyme.] 

HOMONYMY:  Same as Homoplast. 

HOMOOUSIAN:  One of those, in the 4th century, who accepted the Nicene creed, and maintained that the Son had the same essence or substance with the Father; -- opposed to homoiousian. 

HOMOOUSIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Homoousians, or to the doctrines they held. 

HOMOPHYLIC:  Relating to homophily. 

HOMOPHYLY:  That form of homology due to common ancestry (phylogenetic homology), in opposition to homomorphy, to which genealogic basis is wanting. Haeckel. 

HOMOPLASMY:  Resemblance between different plants or animals, in external shape, in general habit, or in organs, which is not due to descent from a common ancestor, but to similar surrounding circumstances. 

HOMOPLAST:  One of the plastids composing the idorgan of Haeckel; -- also called homoörgan. 

HOMOPLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to homoplasty; as, homoplasticorgans; homoplastic forms. 

HOMOPLASTY:  The formation of homologous tissues. 

HOMOPLASY:  See Homogeny. 

HOMOPOLIC:  In promorphology, pertaining to or exhibiting that kind of organic form, in which the stereometric ground form is a pyramid, with similar poles. See Promorphology. 

HOMOPTER:  One of the Homoptera. 

HOMOPTERA:  A suborder of Hemiptera, in which both pairs of wings are similar in texture, and do not overlap when folded, as in the cicada. See Hemiptera. 

HOMOPTERAN:  An homopter. 

HOMOPTEROUS:  Of or pertaining to the Homoptera. 

HOMOSTYLED:  Having only one form of pistils; -- said of the flowers of some plants. Darwin. 

HOMOSYSTEMIC:  Developing, in the case of multicellular organisms, from the same embryonic systems into which the secondary unit (gastrula or plant enbryo) differentiates. 

HOMOTAXIA:  Same as Homotaxis.  HOMOTAXIAL; HOMOTAXIC Ho`mo*tax"i*al, Ho`mo*tax"ic, a. (Biol.)  Relating to homotaxis. 

HOMOTAXIS:  Similarly in arrangement of parts; -- the opposite of heterotaxy. 

HOMOTAXY:  Same as Homotaxis.  HOMOTHERMIC; HOMOTHERMOUS Ho`mo*ther"mic, Ho`mo*ther"mous, a. Etym: [Homo- + Gr. (Physiol.)  Warm-blooded; homoiothermal; hæmatothermal. 

HOMOTONOUS:  Of the same tenor or tone; equable; without variation.  HOMOTROPAL; HOMOTROPOUS Ho*mot"ro*pal, Ho*mot"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. homotrope.]  1. Turned in the same direction with something else.  2. (Bot.)  Having the radicle of the seed directed towards the hilum. 

HOMOTYPAL:  Of the same type of structure; pertaining to a homotype; as, homotypal parts. 

HOMOTYPE:  That which has the same fundamental type of structure with something else; thus, the right arm is the homotype of the right leg; one arm is the homotype of the other, etc. Owen.  HOMOTYPIC; HOMOTYPICAL Ho`mo*typ"ic, Ho`mo*typ"ic*al, a. (Biol.)  Same as Homotypal. 

HOMOTYPY:  A term suggested by Haeckel to be instead of serial homology. See Homotype. 

HOMUNCULUS:  A little man; a dwarf; a manikin. Sterne. 

HOND:  Hand. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HONE:  To pine; to lament; to long. Lamb. 

HONE:  A kind of swelling in the cheek. 

HONE:  A stone of a fine grit, or a slab, as of metal, covered with an abrading substance or powder, used for sharpening cutting instruments, and especially for setting razors; an oilstone. Tusser. Hone slateSee Polishing slate.  -- Hone stone, one of several kinds of stone used for hones. See Novaculite. 

HONE:  To sharpen on, or with, a hone; to rub on a hone in order to sharpen; as, to hone a razor. 

HONEST:  To adorn; to grace; to honor; to make becoming, appropriate, or honorable. [Obs.] Abp. Sandys. 

HONESTATION:  The act of honesting; grace; adornment. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

HONESTETEE:  Honesty; honorableness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HONESTY:  Satin flower; the name of two cruciferous herbs having large flat pods, the round shining partitions of which are more beautiful than the blossom; -- called also lunary and moonwort. Lunaria biennis is common honesty; L. rediva is perennial honesty.  Syn.  -- Integrity; probity; uprightness; trustiness; faithfulness; honor; justice; equity; fairness; candor; plain-dealing; veracity; sincerity. 

HONEWORT:  An umbelliferous plant of the genus Sison (S.Amomum); -- so called because used to cure a swelling called a hone. 

HONEY:  To be gentle, agreeable, or coaxing; to talk fondly; to use endearments; also, to be or become obsequiously courteous or complimentary; to fawn. "Honeying and making love." Shak. Rough to common men, But honey at the whisper of a lord. Tennyson. 

HONEY:  To make agreeable; to cover or sweeten with, or as with, honey. Canst thou not honey me with fluent speech Marston.  HONEY-BAG Hon"ey-bag`, n. (Zoöl.)  The receptacle for honey in a honeybee. Shak. Grew. 

HONEYBEE:  Any bee of the genus Apis, which lives in communities and collects honey, esp. the common domesticated hive bee (Apis mellifica), the Italian bee (A. ligustica), and the Arabiab bee (A. fasciata). The two latter are by many entomologists considered only varieties of the common hive bee. Each swarm of bees consists of a large number of workers (barren females), with, ordinarily, one queen or fertile female, but in the swarming season several young queens, and a number of males or drones, are produced. 

HONEYBIRD:  The honey guide. 

HONEYCOMBED:  Formed or perforated like a honeycomb. Each bastion was honeycombed with casements. Motley. 

HONEYLESS:  Destitute of honey. Shak. 

HONEYMOON:  The first month after marriage. Addison.  HONEY-MOUTHED Hon"ey-mouthed`, a.  Soft to sweet in speech; persuasive. Shak. 

HONEYSTONE:  See Mellite. 

HONEYSUCKER:  See Honey eater, under Honey. 

HONEYSUCKLE:  One of several species of flowering plants, much admired for their beauty, and some for their fragrance.  Note: The honeysuckles are properly species of the genus Lonicera; as, L. Caprifolium, and L. Japonica, the commonly cultivated fragrant kinds; L. Periclymenum, the fragrant woodbine of England; L. grata, the American woodbine, and L. sempervirens, the red-flowered trumpet honeysuckle. The European fly honeysuckle is L. Xylosteum; the American, L. ciliata. The American Pinxter flower (Azalea nudiflora) is often called honeysuckle, or false honeysuckle. The name Australian honeysuckle is applied to one or more trees of the genus Banksia. See French honeysuckle, under French. 

HONEYSUCKLED:  Covered with honeysuckles.  HONEY-SWEET Hon"ey-sweet`, a.  Sweet as honey. Chaucer.  HONEY-TONGUED Hon"ey-tongued`, a.  Sweet speaking; persuasive; seductive. Shak. 

HONEYWARE:  See Badderlocks. 

HONEYWORT:  A European plant of the genus Cerinthe, whose flowers are very attractive to bees. Loudon. 

HONG:  A mercantile establishment or factory for foreign trade in China, as formerly at Canton; a succession of offices connected by a common passage and used for business or storage. Hong merchant, one of the few Chinese merchants who, previous to the treaty of 1842, formed a guild which had the exclusive privilege of trading with foreigners. 

HONG:  To hang. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HONIED:  See Honeyed.  HONITON LACE Hon"i*ton lace`  . A kind of pillow lace, remarkable for the beauty of its figures; -- so called because chiefly made in Honiton, England. 

HONK:  The cry of a wild goose.  -- Honk"ing, n. 

HONOR:  A seigniory or lordship held of the king, on which other lordships and manors depended. Cowell.  10. pl.  Academic or university prizes or distinctions; as, honors in classics.  11. pl. (Whist)  The ace, king, queen, and jack of trumps. The ten and nine are sometimes called Dutch honors. R. A. Proctor. Affair of honor, a dispute to be decided by a duel, or the duel itself.  -- Court of honor, a court or tribunal to investigate and decide questions relating to points of honor; as a court of chivalry, or a military court to investigate acts or omissions which are unofficerlike or ungentlemanly in their nature.  -- Debt of honor, a debt contracted by a verbal promise, or by betting or gambling, considered more binding than if recoverable by law.  -- Honor bright! An assurance of truth or fidelity. [Colloq.] -- Honor court (Feudal Law), one held in an honor or seignory.  -- Honor point. (Her.) See Escutcheon.  -- Honors of war (Mil.), distinctions granted to a vanquished enemy, as of marching out from a camp or town armed, and with colors flying.  -- Law, or Code, of honor, certain rules by which social intercourse is regulated among persons of fashion, and which are founded on a regard to reputation. Paley.  -- Maid of honor, a lady of rank, whose duty it is to attend the queen when she appears in public.  -- On one's honor, on the pledge of one's honor; as, the members of the House of Lords in Great Britain, are not under oath, but give their statements or verdicts on their honor.  -- Point of honor, a scruple or nice distinction in matters affecting one's honor; as, he raised a point of honor.  -- To do the honors, to bestow honor, as on a guest; to act as host or hostess at an entertainment. "To do the honors and to give the word." Pope.  -- To do one honor, to confer distinction upon one.  -- To have the honor, to have the privilege or distinction.  -- Word of honor, an engagement confirmed by a pledge of honor. 

HONOR:  To accept and pay when due; as, to honora bill of exchange. 

HONORABLY:  An honorary payment, usually in recognition of services for which it is not usual or not lawful to assign a fixed business price. Heumann. 

HONORER:  One who honors. 

HONORIFIC:  Conferring honor; tending to honor. London. Spectator. 

HONORLESS:  Destitute of honor; not honored. Bp. Warburton. 

HONT:  See under Hunt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HONVEDSEG:  See Army organization, above. 

HOO:  A termination denoting state, condition, quality, character, totality, as in manhood, childhood, knighthood, brotherhood. Sometimes it is written, chiefly in obsolete words, in the form - head. 

HOOD:  The endmost plank of a strake which reaches the stem or stern. 

HOODCAP:  See Hooded seal, under Hooded. 

HOODLESS:  Having no hood. 

HOODLUM:  A young rowdy; a rough, lawless fellow. [Colloq. U.S.] 

HOODMAN:  The person blindfolded in the game called hoodman-blind. [Obs.] Shak.  HOODMAN-BLIND Hood"man-blind`, n.  An old term for blindman's buff. Shak.  HOOD MOLDING; HOOD MOULDING Hood" mold`ing Hood" mould`ing. (Arch.)  A projecting molding over the head of an arch, forming the outermost member of the archivolt; -- called also hood mold. 

HOODOO:  One who causes bad luck. [Colloq.] 

HOODY:  The hooded crow; also, in Scotland, the hooded gull. 

HOOF:  See Ungula. 

HOOFBOUND:  Having a dry and contracted hoof, which occasions pain and lameness. 

HOOFED:  Furnished with hoofs. Grew. 

HOOFLESS:  Destitute of hoofs. 

HOOK:  See Eccentric, and V-hook.  5. A snare; a trap. [R.] Shak.  6. A field sown two years in succession. [Prov. Eng.]  7. pl.  The projecting points of the thigh bones of cattle; -- called also hook bones. By hook or by crook, one way or other; by any means, direct or indirect. Milton. "In hope her to attain by hook or crook." Spenser.  -- Off the hooks, unhinged; disturbed; disordered. [Colloq.] "In the evening, by water, to the Duke of Albemarle, whom I found mightly off the hooks that the ships are not gone out of the river." Pepys.  -- On one's own hook, on one's own account or responsibility; by one's self. [Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett.  -- To go off the hooks, to die. [Colloq.] Thackeray.  -- Bid hook, a small boat hook.  -- Chain hook. See under Chain.  -- Deck hook, a horizontal knee or frame, in the bow of a ship, on which the forward part of the deck rests.  -- Hook and eye, one of the small wire hooks and loops for fastening together the opposite edges of a garment, etc.  -- Hook bill (Zoöl.), the strongly curved beak of a bird.  -- Hook ladder, a ladder with hooks at the end by which it can be suspended, as from the top of a wall.  -- Hook motion (Steam Engin.), a valve gear which is reversed by V hooks.  -- Hook squid, any squid which has the arms furnished with hooks, instead of suckers, as in the genera Enoploteuthis and Onychteuthis.  -- Hook wrench, a wrench or spanner, having a hook at the end, instead of a jaw, for turning a bolthead, nut, or coupling. 

HOOK:  To bend; to curve as a hook. 

HOOKAH:  A pipe with a long, flexible stem, so arranged that the smoke is cooled by being made to pass through water.  HOOK-BILLED Hook"-billed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having a strongly curved bill. 

HOOKEDNESS:  The state of being bent like a hook; incurvation. 

HOOKER:  Spur gearing having teeth slanting across the face of the wheel, sometimes slanting in opposite directions from the middle.  HOOKE'S JOINT Hooke's joint. Etym: [So called from the inventor.] (Mach.)  A universal joint. See under Universal. 

HOOKEY:  See Hockey. 

HOOKLET:  A little hook.  HOOK-NOSED Hook"-nosed`, a.  Having a hooked or aquiline nose. Shak. 

HOOKY:  Full of hooks; pertaining to hooks. 

HOOL:  Whole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOOLOCK:  A small black gibbon (Hylobates hoolock), found in the mountains of Assam. 

HOOM:  Home. Chaucer. 

HOONOOMAUN:  An Indian monkey. See Entellus. [Written also hoonuman.] 

HOOP:  The hoopoe. See Hoopoe. 

HOOPER:  One who hoops casks or tubs; a cooper. 

HOOPER:  The European whistling, or wild, swan (Olor cygnus); -- called also hooper swan, whooping swan, and elk.  HOOPOE; HOOPOO Hoop"oe, Hoop"oo, n. Etym: [So called from its cry; cf. L. upupa, Gr. hop, F. huppe; cf. also G. wiedenhopf, OHG. wituhopfo, lit., wood hopper.] (Zoöl.)  A European bird of the genus Upupa (U. epops), having a beautiful crest, which it can erect or depress at pleasure. Called also hoop, whoop. The name is also applied to several other species of the same genus and allied genera. 

HOOSIER:  A nickname given to an inhabitant of the State of Indiana. [U.S.]  HOOSIER STATE Hoo"sier State.  Indiana; -- a nickname of obscure origin. 

HOOT:  To assail with contemptuous cries or shouts; to follow with derisive shouts. Partridge and his clan may hoot me for a cheat. Swift. 

HOOVE:  A disease in cattle consisting in inflammation of the stomach by gas, ordinarily caused by eating too much green food; tympany; bloating.  HOOVEN; HOVEN Hoov"en, Ho"ven, a.  Affected with hoove; as, hooven, or hoven, cattle. 

HOP:  A climbing plant (Humulus Lupulus), having a long, twining, annual stalk. It is cultivated for its fruit (hops).  2. The catkin or strobilaceous fruit of the hop, much used in brewing to give a bitter taste.  3. The fruit of the dog-rose. See Hip. Hop back. (Brewing) See under 1st Back.  -- Hop clover (Bot.), a species of yellow clover having heads like hops in miniature (Trifolium agrarium, and T. procumbens).  -- Hop flea (Zoöl.), a small flea beetle (Haltica concinna), very injurious to hops.  -- Hop fly (Zoöl.), an aphid (Phorodon humuli), very injurious to hop vines.  -- Hop froth fly (Zoöl.), an hemipterous insect (Aphrophora interrupta), allied to the cockoo spits. It often does great damage to hop vines.  -- Hop hornbeam (Bot.), an American tree of the genus Ostrya (O.Virginica) the American ironwood; also, a European species (O. vulgaris).  -- Hop moth (Zoöl.), a moth (Hypena humuli), which in the larval state is very injurious to hop vines.  -- Hop picker, one who picks hops.  -- Hop pole, a pole used to support hop vines.  -- Hop tree (Bot.), a small American tree (Ptelia trifoliata), having broad, flattened fruit in large clusters, sometimes used as a substitute for hops.  -- Hop vine (Bot.), the climbing vine or stalk of the hop. 

HOP:  To impregnate with hops. Mortimer. 

HOP:  To gather hops. [Perhaps only in the form Hopping, vb. n.]  HOPBINE; HOPBIND Hop"bine`, Hop"bind`, n.  The climbing stem of the hop. Blackstone. 

HOPEITE:  A hydrous phosphate of zinc in transparent prismatic crystals. 

HOPER:  One who hopes. Swift. 

HOPINGLY:  In a hopeful manner. Hammond. 

HOPLITE:  A heavy-armed infantry soldier. Milford.  HOP-O'-MY-THUMB; HOP-THUMB Hop"-o'-my-thumb", Hop"-thumb", n.  A very diminutive person. [Colloq.] liwell. 

HOPPED:  Impregnated with hops. 

HOPPER:  See Grasshopper, 2.  4. pl.  A game. See Hopscotch. Johnson.  5. (Zoöl.) (a) See Grasshopper, and Frog hopper, Grape hopper, Leaf hopper, Tree hopper, under Frog, Grape, Leaf, and Tree. (b) The larva of a cheese fly.  6. (Naut.)  A vessel for carrying waste, garbage, etc., out to sea, so constructed as to discharge its load by a mechanical contrivance; -- called also dumping scow. Bell and hopper (Metal.), the apparatus at the top of a blast furnace, through which the charge is introduced, while the gases are retained.  -- Hopper boy, a rake in a mill, moving in a circle to spread meal for drying, and to draw it over an opening in the floor, through which it falls.  -- Hopper closet, a water-closet, without a movable pan, in which the receptacle is a funnel standing on a draintrap.  -- Hopper cock, a faucet or valve for flushing the hopper of a water-closet. 

HOPPERDOZER:  An appliance for the destruction of insects, consisting of a shallow iron box, containing kerosene or coated with tar or other sticky substance, which may be mounted on wheels. 

HOPPERINGS:  Gravel retaining in the hopper of a cradle. 

HOPPESTERE:  An unexplained epithet used by Chaucer in reference to ships. By some it is defined as "dancing (on the wave)"; by others as "opposing," "warlike." T. R. Lounsbury. 

HOPPING:  The act of one who, or that which, hops; a jumping, frisking, or dancing. Hopping Dick (Zoöl.), a thrush of Jamaica (Merula leucogenys), resembling the English blackbird in its familiar manners, agreeable song, and dark plumage. 

HOPPING:  A gathering of hops. 

HOPPLE:  A fetter for horses, or cattle, when turned out to graze; -- chiefly used in the plural. 

HOPPLEBUSH:  Same as Hobblebush. 

HOPSCOTCH:  A child's game, in which a player, hopping on one foot, drives a stone from one compartment to another of a figure traced or scotched on the ground; -- called also hoppers.  HOP-THUMB Hop"-thumb`, n.  See Hop-o'-my-thumb. 

HOPYARD:  A field where hops are raised. 

HORAL:  Of or pertaining to an hour, or to hours. Prior. 

HORALY:  Hourly. [Obs.] 

HORATIAN:  Of or pertaining to Horace, the Latin poet, or resembling his style. 

HORDE:  A wandering troop or gang; especially, a clan or tribe of a nomadic people migrating from place to place for the sake of pasturage, plunder, etc.; a predatory multitude. Thomson. 

HORDEIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, barley; as, hordeic acid, an acid identical or isomeric with lauric acid. 

HORDEIN:  A peculiar starchy matter contained in barley. It is complex mixture. [R.] 

HORDEOLUM:  A small tumor upon the eyelid, resembling a grain of barley; a sty. 

HORDOCK:  An unidentified plant mentioned by Shakespeare, perhaps equivalent to burdock. 

HORE:  Hoar. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOREHOUND:  A plant of the genus Marrubium (M. vulgare), which has a bitter taste, and is a weak tonic, used as a household remedy for colds, coughing, etc. [Written also hoarhound.] Fetid horehound, or Black horehound, a disagreeable plant resembling horehound (Ballota nigra).  -- Water horehound, a species of the genus Lycopus, resembling mint, but not aromatic. 

HORIZON:  The epoch or time during which a deposit was made. The strata all over the earth, which were formed at the same time, are said to belong to the same geological horizon. Le Conte.  4. (Painting)  The chief horizontal line in a picture of any sort, which determines in the picture the height of the eye of the spectator; in an extended landscape, the representation of the natural horizon corresponds with this line. Apparent horizon. See under Apparent.  -- Artificial horizon, a level mirror, as the surface of mercury in a shallow vessel, or a plane reflector adjusted to the true level artificially; -- used chiefly with the sextant for observing the double altitude of a celestial body.  -- Celestial horizon. (Astron.) See def. 2, above.  -- Dip of the horizon (Astron.), the vertical angle between the sensible horizon and a line to the visible horizon, the latter always being below the former.  -- Rational horizon, and Sensible horizon. (Astron.) See def. 2, above.  -- Visible horizon. See definitions 1 and 2, above. 

HORIZONTALITY:  The state or quality of being horizontal. Kirwan. 

HORIZONTALLY:  In a horizontal direction or position; on a level; as, moving horizontally. 

HORMOGONIUM:  A chain of small cells in certain algæ, by which the plant is propogated. 

HORMONE:  A chemical substance formed in one organ and carried in the circulation to another organ on which it exerts a stimulating effect; thus, according to Starling, the gastric glands are stimulated by a hormone from the pyloric mucous membrane. 

HORN:  Any natural projection or excrescence from an animal, resembling or thought to resemble a horn in substance or form; esp.: (a) A projection from the beak of a bird, as in the hornbill. (b) A tuft of feathers on the head of a bird, as in the horned owl. (c) A hornlike projection from the head or thorax of an insect, or the head of a reptile, or fish. (d) A sharp spine in front of the fins of a fish, as in the horned pout.  4. (Bot.)  An incurved, tapering and pointed appendage found in the flowers of the milkweed (Asclepias).  5. Something made of a horn, or in resemblance of a horn; as: (a) A wind instrument of music; originally, one made of a horn (of an ox or a ram); now applied to various elaborately wrought instruments of brass or other metal, resembling a horn in shape. "Wind his horn under the castle wall." Spenser. See French horn, under French. (b) A drinking cup, or beaker, as having been originally made of the horns of cattle. "Horns of mead and ale." Mason. (c) The cornucopia, or horn of plenty. See Cornucopia. "Fruits and flowers from Amalthæa's horn." Milton. (d) A vessel made of a horn; esp., one designed for containing powder; anciently, a small vessel for carrying liquids. "Samuel took the hornof oil and anointed him [David]." 1 Sam. xvi. 13. (e) The pointed beak of an anvil. (f) The high pommel of a saddle; also, either of the projections on a lady's saddle for supporting the leg. (g) (Arch.) The Ionic volute. (h) (Naut.) The outer end of a crosstree; also, one of the projections forming the jaws of a gaff, boom, etc. (i) (Carp.) A curved projection on the fore part of a plane. (j) One of the projections at the four corners of the Jewish altar of burnt offering. "Joab . . . caught hold on the horns of the altar." 1 Kings ii. 28.  6. One of the curved ends of a crescent; esp., an extremity or cusp of the moon when crescent-shaped. The moon Wears a wan circle round her blunted horns. Thomson.  7. (Mil.)  The curving extremity of the wing of an army or of a squadron drawn up in a crescentlike form. Sharpening in mooned horns Their phalanx. Milton.  8. The tough, fibrous material of which true horns are composed, being, in the Ox family, chiefly albuminous, with some phosphate of lime; also, any similar substance, as that which forms the hoof crust of horses, sheep, and cattle; as, a spoon of horn.  9. (Script.)  A symbol of strength, power, glory, exaltation, or pride. The Lord is . . . the horn of my salvation. Ps. xviii. 2.  10. An emblem of a cuckold; -- used chiefly in the plural. "Thicker than a cuckold's horn." Shak. Horn block, the frame or pedestal in which a railway car axle box slides up and down; -- also called horn plate.  -- Horn of a dilemma. See under Dilemma.  -- Horn distemper, a disease of cattle, affecting the internal substance of the horn.  -- Horn drum, a wheel with long curved scoops, for raising water.  -- Horn lead (Chem.), chloride of lead.  -- Horn maker, a maker of cuckolds. [Obs.] Shak.  -- Horn mercury. (Min.) Same as Horn quicksilver (below).  -- Horn poppy (Bot.), a plant allied to the poppy (Glaucium luteum), found on the sandy shores of Great Britain and Virginia; -- called also horned poppy. Gray.  -- Horn pox (Med.), abortive smallpox with an eruption like that of chicken pox.  -- Horn quicksilver (Min.), native calomel, or bichloride of mercury.  -- Horn shell (Zoöl.), any long, sharp, spiral, gastropod shell, of the genus Cerithium, and allied genera.  -- Horn silver (Min.), cerargyrite.  -- Horn slate, a gray, siliceous stone.  -- To haul in one's horns, to withdraw some arrogant pretension. [Colloq.] -- To raise, or lift, the horn (Script.), to exalt one's self; to act arrogantly. "'Gainst them that raised thee dost thou lift thy horn" Milton.  -- To take a horn, to take a drink of intoxicating liquor. [Low] 

HORNBEAK:  A fish. See Hornfish. 

HORNBEAM:  A tree of the genus Carpinus (C. Americana), having a smooth gray bark and a ridged trunk, the wood being white and very hard. It is common along the banks of streams in the United States, and is also called ironwood. The English hornbeam is C. Betulus. The American is called also blue beech and water beech. Hop hornbeam. (Bot.) See under Hop. 

HORNBILL:  Any bird of the family Bucerotidæ, of which about sixty species are known, belonging to numerous genera. They inhabit the tropical parts of Asia, Africa, and the East Indies, and are remarkable for having a more or less horn-like protuberance, which is usually large and hollow and is situated on the upper side of the beak. The size of the hornbill varies from that of a pigeon to that of a raven, or even larger. They feed chiefly upon fruit, but some species eat dead animals. 

HORNBLENDE:  The common black, or dark green or brown, variety of amphibole. (See Amphibole.) It belongs to the aluminous division of the species, and is also characterized by its containing considerable iron. Also used as a general term to include the whole species. Hornblende schist (Geol.), a hornblende rock of schistose structure. 

HORNBLENDIC:  Composed largely of hornblende; resembling or relating to hornblende. 

HORNBLOWER:  One who, or that which, blows a horn. 

HORNBUG:  A large nocturnal beetle of the genus Lucanus (as L. capreolus, and L. dama), having long, curved upper jaws, resembling a sickle. The grubs are found in the trunks of old trees. 

HORNED:  Furnished with a horn or horns; furnished with a hornlike process or appendage; as, horned cattle; having some part shaped like a horn. The horned moon with one bright star Within the nether tip. Coleridge. Horned bee (Zoöl.), a British wild bee (Osmia bicornis), having two little horns on the head.  -- Horned dace (Zoöl.), an American cyprinoid fish (Semotilus corporialis) common in brooks and ponds; the common chub. See Illust. of Chub.  -- Horned frog (Zoöl.), a very large Brazilian frog (Ceratophrys cornuta), having a pair of triangular horns arising from the eyelids.  -- Horned grebe (Zoöl.), a species of grebe (Colymbus auritus), of Arctic Europe and America, having two dense tufts of feathers on the head.  -- Horned horse (Zoöl.), the gnu.  -- Horned lark (Zoöl.), the shore lark.  -- Horned lizard (Zoöl.), the horned toad.  -- Horned owl (Zoöl.), a large North American owl (Bubo Virginianus), having a pair of elongated tufts of feathers on the head. Several distinct varieties are known; as, the Arctic, Western, dusky, and striped horned owls, differing in color, and inhabiting different regions; -- called also great horned owl, horn owl, eagle owl, and cat owl. Sometimes also applied to the long-eared owl. See Eared owl, under Eared.  -- Horned poppy. (Bot.) See Horn poppy, under Horn.  -- Horned pout (Zoöl.), an American fresh-water siluroid fish; the bullpout.  -- Horned rattler (Zoöl.), a species of rattlesnake (Crotalus cerastes), inhabiting the dry, sandy plains, from California to Mexico. It has a pair of triangular horns between the eyes; -- called also sidewinder.  -- Horned ray (Zoöl.), the sea devil.  -- Horned screamer (Zoöl.), the kamichi.  -- Horned snake (Zoöl.), the cerastes.  -- Horned toad (Zoöl.), any lizard of the genus Phrynosoma, of which nine or ten species are known. These lizards have several hornlike spines on the head, and a broad, flat body, covered with spiny scales. They inhabit the dry, sandy plains from California to Mexico and Texas. Called also horned lizard.  -- Horned viper. (Zoöl.) See Cerastes. 

HORNEDNESS:  The condition of being horned. 

HORNEL:  The European sand eel. [Scot.] 

HORNER:  The British sand lance or sand eel (Ammodytes lanceolatus). 

HORNET:  A large, strong wasp. The European species (Vespa crabro) is of a dark brown and yellow color. It is very pugnacious, and its sting is very severe. Its nest is constructed of a paperlike material, and the layers of comb are hung together by columns. The American white- faced hornet (V. maculata) is larger and has similar habits. Hornet fly (Zoöl.), any dipterous insect of the genus Asilus, and allied genera, of which there are numerous species. They are large and fierce flies which capture bees and other insects, often larger than themselves, and suck their blood. Called also hawk fly, robber fly.  -- To stir up a hornet's nest, to provoke the attack of a swarm of spiteful enemies or spirited critics. [Colloq.] 

HORNFISH:  The garfish or sea needle. 

HORNFOOT:  Having hoofs; hoofed. 

HORNIFY:  To horn; to cuckold. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

HORNING:  Appearance of the moon when increasing, or in the form of a crescent. J. Gregory. Letters of horning (Scots Law), the process or authority by which a person, directed by the decree of a court of justice to pay or perform anything, is ordered to comply therewith. Mozley & W. 

HORNISH:  Somewhat like horn; hard. 

HORNITO:  A low, oven-shaped mound, common in volcanic regions, and emitting smoke and vapors from its sides and summit. Humboldt. 

HORNLESS:  Having no horn.  HORN-MAD Horn"-mad`, a.  Quite mad; -- raving crazy. Did I tell you about Mr. Garrick, that the town are horn-mad after Gray. 

HORNOTINE:  A yearling; a bird of the year. 

HORNOWL:  See Horned Owl. 

HORNPIKE:  The garfish. [Prov. Eng.] 

HORNPOUT:  See Horned pout, under Horned. 

HORNSNAKE:  A harmless snake (Farancia abacura), found in the Southern United States. The color is bluish black above, red below. 

HORNSTONE:  A siliceous stone, a variety of quartz, closely resembling flint, but more brittle; -- called also chert. 

HORNTAIL:  Any one of family (Uroceridæ) of large hyminopterous insects, allied to the sawflies. The larvæ bore in the wood of trees. So called from the long, stout ovipositors of the females. 

HORNWORK:  An outwork composed of two demibastions joined by a curtain. It is connected with the works in rear by long wings. 

HORNWORT:  An aquatic plant (Ceratophyllum), with finely divided leaves. 

HORNWRACK:  A bryozoan of the genus Flustra. 

HORNY:  Having the hands horny and callous from labor. 

HORNYHEAD:  Any North American river chub of the genus Hybopsis, esp. H. biguttatus. 

HOROLOGER:  A maker or vender of clocks and watches; one skilled in horology. 

HOROLOGICAL:  Relating to a horologe, or to horology. 

HOROLOGIOGRAPHER:  A maker of clocks, watches, or dials. 

HOROLOGIOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to horologiography. Chambers. 

HOROLOGIST:  One versed in horology. 

HOROLOGY:  The science of measuring time, or the principles and art of constructing instruments for measuring and indicating portions of time, as clocks, watches, dials, etc. 

HOROMETER:  An instrument for measuring time. 

HOROMETRICAL:  Belonging to horometry. 

HOROMETRY:  The art, practice, or method of measuring time by hours and subordinate divisions. "The horometry of antiquity." Sir T. Browne. 

HOROPTER:  The line or surface in which are situated all the points which are seen single while the point of sight, or the adjustment of the eyes, remains unchanged. The sum of all the points which are seen single, while the point of sight remains unchanged, is called the horopter. J. Le Conte. 

HOROPTERIC:  Of or pertaining to the horopter. 

HOROSCOPE:  One versed in horoscopy; an astrologer. 

HORRENDOUS:  Fearful; frightful. [Obs.] I. Watts. 

HORRENT:  Standing erect, as bristles; covered with bristling points; bristled; bristling. Rough and horrent with figures in strong relief. De Quincey. With bright emblazonry and horrent arms. Milton. 

HORRIBLE:  Exciting, or tending to excite, horror or fear; dreadful; terrible; shocking; hideous; as, a horrible sight; a horrible story; a horrible murder. A dungeon horrible on all sides round. Milton.  Syn.  -- Dreadful; frightful; fearful; terrible; awful; terrific; shocking; hideous; horrid. 

HORRIBLENESS:  The state or quality of being horrible; dreadfulness; hideousness. The horribleness of the mischief. Sir P. Sidney. 

HORRIBLY:  In a manner to excite horror; dreadfully; terribly. 

HORRIDLY:  In a horrid manner. Shak. 

HORRIDNESS:  The quality of being horrid. 

HORRIFIC:  Causing horror; frightful. Let . . . nothing ghastly or horrific be supposed. I. Taylor. 

HORRIFICATION:  That which causes horror. [R.] Miss Edgeworth. 

HORRIFY:  To cause to feel horror; to strike or impress with horror; as, the sight horrified the beholders. E. Irving. 

HORRIPILATION:  A real or fancied bristling of the hair of the head or body, resulting from disease, terror, chilliness, etc. 

HORRISONANT:  Horrisonous. [Obs.] 

HORRISONOUS:  Sounding dreadfully; uttering a terrible sound. [Obs.] Bailey. 

HORROR:  Struck with horror; horrified. Blank and horror-stricken faces. C. Kingsley.  HORROR-STRUCK Hor"ror-struck`, a.  Horror-stricken; horrified. M. Arnold.  HORS DE COMBAT Hors` de com`bat". Etym: [F.]  Out of the combat; disabled from fighting.  HORS D'OEUVRE Hors` d'ouvre"; pl. Hors d'ouveres (#). [F., lit., outside of work.]  1. Something unusual or extraordinary. [R.]  2.  A dish served as a relish, usually at the beginning of a meal. 

HORSE:  A hoofed quadruped of the genus Equus; especially, the domestic horse (E. caballus), which was domesticated in Egypt and Asia at a very early period. It has six broad molars, on each side of each jaw, with six incisors, and two canine teeth, both above and below. The mares usually have the canine teeth rudimentary or wanting. The horse differs from the true asses, in having a long, flowing mane, and the tail bushy to the base. Unlike the asses it has callosities, or chestnuts, on all its legs. The horse excels in strength, speed, docility, courage, and nobleness of character, and is used for drawing, carrying, bearing a rider, and like purposes.  Note: Many varieties, differing in form, size, color, gait, speed, etc., are known, but all are believed to have been derived from the same original species. It is supposed to have been a native of the plains of Central Asia, but the wild species from which it was derived is not certainly known. The feral horses of America are domestic horses that have run wild; and it is probably true that most of those of Asia have a similar origin. Some of the true wild Asiatic horses do, however, approach the domestic horse in several characteristics. Several species of fossil (Equus) are known from the later Tertiary formations of Europe and America. The fossil species of other genera of the family Equidæ are also often called horses, in general sense.  2. The male of the genus horse, in distinction from the female or male; usually, a castrated male.  3. Mounted soldiery; cavalry; -- used without the plural termination; as, a regiment of horse; -- distinguished from foot. The armies were appointed, consisting of twenty-five thousand horse and foot. Bacon.  4. A frame with legs, used to support something; as, a clotheshorse, a sawhorse, etc.  5. A frame of timber, shaped like a horse, on which soldiers were made to ride for punishment.  6. Anything, actual or figurative, on which one rides as on a horse; a hobby.  7. (Mining)  A mass of earthy matter, or rock of the same character as the wall rock, occurring in the course of a vein, as of coal or ore; hence, to take horse -- said of a vein -- is to divide into branches for a distance.  8. (Naut.) (a) See Footrope, a. (b) A breastband for a leadsman. (c) An iron bar for a sheet traveler to slide upon. (d) A jackstay. W. C. Russell. Totten.  Note: Horse is much used adjectively and in composition to signify of, or having to do with, a horse or horses, like a horse, etc.; as, horse collar, horse dealer or horsehorsehoe, horse jockey; and hence, often in the sense of strong, loud, coarse, etc.; as, horselaugh, horse nettle or horse-nettle, horseplay, horse ant, etc. Black horse, Blood horse, etc. See under Black, etc.  -- Horse aloes, caballine aloes.  -- Horse ant (Zoöl.), a large ant (Formica rufa); -- called also horse emmet.  -- Horse artillery, that portion of the artillery in which the cannoneers are mounted, and which usually serves with the cavalry; flying artillery.  -- Horse balm (Bot.), a strong-scented labiate plant (Collinsonia Canadensis), having large leaves and yellowish flowers.  -- Horse bean (Bot.), a variety of the English or Windsor bean (Faba vulgaris), grown for feeding horses.  -- Horse boat, a boat for conveying horses and cattle, or a boat propelled by horses.  -- Horse bot. (Zoöl.) See Botfly, and Bots.  -- Horse box, a railroad car for transporting valuable horses, as hunters. [Eng.] -- Horse breaker or trainer, one employed in subduing or training horses for use.  -- Horse car. (a) A railroad car drawn by horses. See under Car. (b) A car fitted for transporting horses.  -- Horse cassia (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Cassia Javanica), bearing long pods, which contain a black, catharic pulp, much used in the East Indies as a horse medicine.  -- Horse cloth, a cloth to cover a horse.  -- Horse conch (Zoöl.), a large, spiral, marine shell of the genus Triton. See Triton.  -- Horse courser. (a) One that runs horses, or keeps horses for racing. Johnson. (b) A dealer in horses. [Obs.] Wiseman.  -- Horse crab (Zoöl.), the Limulus; -- called also horsefoot, horsehoe crab, and king crab.  -- Horse crevallé (Zoöl.), the cavally.  -- Horse emmet (Zoöl.), the horse ant.  -- Horse finch (Zoöl.), the chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.] -- Horse gentian (Bot.), fever root.  -- Horse iron (Naut.), a large calking iron.  -- Horse latitudes, a space in the North Atlantic famous for calms and baffling winds, being between the westerly winds of higher latitudes and the trade winds. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  -- Horse mackrel. (Zoöl.) (a) The common tunny (Orcynus thunnus), found on the Atlantic coast of Europe and America, and in the Mediterranean. (b) The bluefish (Pomatomus saltatrix). (c) The scad. (d) The name is locally applied to various other fishes, as the California hake, the black candlefish, the jurel, the bluefish, etc.  -- Horse marine (Naut.), an awkward, lubbery person; one of a mythical body of marine cavalry. [Slang] -- Horse mussel (Zoöl.), a large, marine mussel (Modiola modiolus), found on the northern shores of Europe and America.  -- Horse nettle (Bot.), a coarse, prickly, American herb, the Solanum Carolinense.  -- Horse parsley. (Bot.) See Alexanders.  -- Horse purslain (Bot.), a coarse fleshy weed of tropical America (Trianthema monogymnum).  -- Horse race, a race by horses; a match of horses in running or trotting.  -- Horse racing, the practice of racing with horses.  -- Horse railroad, a railroad on which the cars are drawn by horses; -- in England, and sometimes in the United States, called a tramway.  -- Horse run (Civil Engin.), a device for drawing loaded wheelbarrows up an inclined plane by horse power.  -- Horse sense, strong common sense. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Horse soldier, a cavalryman.  -- Horse sponge (Zoöl.), a large, coarse, commercial sponge (Spongia equina).  -- Horse stinger (Zoöl.), a large dragon fly. [Prov. Eng.] -- Horse sugar (Bot.), a shrub of the southern part of the United States (Symplocos tinctoria), whose leaves are sweet, and good for fodder.  -- Horse tick (Zoöl.), a winged, dipterous insect (Hippobosca equina), which troubles horses by biting them, and sucking their blood; -- called also horsefly, horse louse, and forest fly.  -- Horse vetch (Bot.), a plant of the genus Hippocrepis (H. comosa), cultivated for the beauty of its flowers; -- called also horsehoe vetch, from the peculiar shape of its pods.  -- Iron horse, a locomotive. [Colloq.] -- Salt horse, the sailor's name for salt beef.  -- To look a gift horse in the mouth, to examine the mouth of a horse which has been received as a gift, in order to ascertain his age; -- hence, to accept favors in a critical and thankless spirit. Lowell.  -- To take horse. (a) To set out on horseback. Macaulay. (b) To be covered, as a mare. (c) See definition 7 (above). 

HORSE:  To get on horseback. [Obs.] Shelton. 

HORSEFLY:  Any dipterous fly of the family Tabanidæ, that stings horses, and sucks their blood.  Note: Of these flies there are numerous species, both in Europe and America. They have a large proboscis with four sharp lancets for piercing the skin. Called also breeze fly. See Illust. under Diptera, and Breeze fly.  2. (Zoöl.)  The horse tick or forest fly (Hippobosca). 

HORSEFOOT:  The coltsfoot.  2. (Zoöl.)  The Limulus or horseshoe crab.  HORSE GUARDS Horse" Guards`. (Mil.)  A body of cavalry so called; esp., a British regiment, called the Royal Horse Guards, which furnishes guards of state for the sovereign. The Horse Guards, a name given to the former headquarters of the commander in chief of the British army, at Whitehall in London. 

HORSEHAIR:  A hair of a horse, especially one from the mane or tail; the hairs of the mane or tail taken collectively; a fabric or tuft made of such hairs. Horsehair worm (Zoöl.), the hair worm or gordius. 

HORSEHEAD:  The silver moonfish (Selene vomer). 

HORSEKNOP:  Knapweed. 

HORSELAUGH:  A loud, boisterous laugh; a guffaw. Pope.  HORSE-LEECH Horse"-leech`, n.  1. (Zoöl.)  A large blood-sucking leech (Hæmopsis vorax), of Europe and Northern Africa. It attacks the lips and mouths of horses.  2. A farrier; a veterinary surgeon.  HORSE-LEECHERY Horse"-leech`er*y, n.  The business of a farrier; especially, the art of curing the diseases of horses. 

HORSELESS:  Being without a horse; specif., not requiring a horse; -- said of certain vehicles in which horse power has been replaced by electricity, steam, etc.; as, a horseless carriage or truck.  HORSE-LITTER Horse"-lit`ter, n.  A carriage hung on poles, and borne by and between two horses. Milton. 

HORSEMAN:  A mounted soldier; a cavalryman.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) A land crab of the genus Ocypoda, living on the coast of Brazil and the West Indies, noted for running very swiftly. (b) A West Indian fish of the genus Eques, as the light-horseman (E. lanceolatus). 

HORSEMANSHIP:  The act or art of riding, and of training and managing horses; manege. 

HORSENAIL:  A thin, pointed nail, with a heavy flaring head, for securing a horsehoe to the hoof; a horsehoe nail. 

HORSEPLAY:  Rude, boisterous play. Too much given to horseplay in his raillery. Dryden. 

HORSEPOND:  A pond for watering horses.  HORSE POWER Horse" pow`er  .  1. The power which a horse exerts.  2. (Mach.)  A unit of power, used in stating the power required to drive machinery, and in estimating the capabilities of animals or steam engines and other prime movers for doing work. It is the power required for the performance of work at the rate of 33,000 English units of work per minute; hence, it is the power that must be exerted in lifting 33,000 pounds at the rate of one foot per minute, or 550 pounds at the rate of one foot per second, or 55 pounds at the rate of ten feet per second, etc.  Note: The power of a draught horse, of average strength, working eight hours per day, is about four fifths of a standard horse power. Brake horse power, the net effective power of a prime mover, as a steam engine, water wheel, etc., in horse powers, as shown by a friction brake. See Friction brake, under Friction.  -- Indicated horse power, the power exerted in the cylinder of an engine, stated in horse powers, estimated from the diameter and speed of the piston, and the mean effective pressure upon it as shown by an indicator. See Indicator.  -- Nominal horse power (Steam Engine), a term still sometimes used in England to express certain proportions of cylinder, but having no value as a standard of measurement.  3. A machine worked by a horse, for driving other machinery; a horse motor.  HORSE-RADISH Horse"-rad`ish, n. (Bot.)  A plant of the genus Nasturtium (N. Armoracia), allied to scurvy grass, having a root of a pungent taste, much used, when grated, as a condiment and in medicine. Gray. Horse-radish tree. (Bot.) See Moringa. 

HORSERAKE:  A rake drawn by a horse. 

HORSESHOE:  The Limulus of horsehoe crab. Horsehoe head (Med.), an old name for the condition of the skull in children, in which the sutures are too open, the coronal suture presenting the form of a horsehoe. Dunglison.  -- Horsehoe magnet, an artificial magnet in the form of a horsehoe.  -- Horsehoe nail. See Horsenail.  -- Horsehoe nose (Zoöl.), a bat of the genus Rhinolophus, having a nasal fold of skin shaped like a horsehoe. 

HORSESHOEING:  The act or employment of shoeing horses. 

HORSESHOER:  One who shoes horses. 

HORSETAIL:  A leafless plant, with hollow and rushlike stems. It is of the genus Equisetum, and is allied to the ferns. See Illust. of Equisetum.  2. A Turkish standard, denoting rank.  Note: Commanders are distinguished by the number of horsetails carried before them. Thus, the sultan has seven, the grand vizier five, and the pashas three, two, or one. Shrubby horsetail. (Bot.) See Joint-fir. 

HORSEWEED:  A composite plant (Erigeron Canadensis), which is a common weed. 

HORSEWHIP:  A whip for horses. 

HORSEWHIP:  To flog or chastise with a horsewhip. 

HORSEWOMAN:  A woman who rides on horseback. 

HORSEWOOD:  A West Indian tree (Calliandra latifolia) with showy, crimson blossoms. 

HORSEWORM:  The larva of a botfly. 

HORSLY:  Horselike. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HORSY:  Pertaining to, or suggestive of, a horse, or of horse racing; as, horsy manners; garments of fantastically horsy fashions. [Colloq.] 

HORTATION:  The act of exhorting, inciting, or giving advice; exhortation. [R.] 

HORTATIVE:  Giving exhortation; advisory; exhortative. Bullokar. 

HORTATIVE:  An exhortation. [Obs.] 

HORTATORY:  Giving exhortation or advise; encouraging; exhortatory; inciting; as, a hortatory speech. Holland. 

HORTENSIAL:  Fit for a garden. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

HORTICULTOR:  One who cultivates a garden. 

HORTICULTURAL:  Of or pertaining to horticulture, or the culture of gardens or orchards. 

HORTICULTURE:  The cultivation of a garden or orchard; the art of cultivating gardens or orchards. 

HORTICULTURIST:  One who practices horticulture. 

HORTULAN:  Belonging to a garden. [Obs.] Evelyn.  HORTUS SICCUS Hor"tus sic"cus. Etym: [L., a dry garden.]  A collection of specimens of plants, dried and preserved, and arranged systematically; an herbarium. 

HORTYARD:  An orchard. [Obs.] 

HOSANNA:  A Hebrew exclamation of praise to the Lord, or an invocation of blessings. "Hosanna to the Highest." Milton. Hosanna to the Son of David. Matt. xxi. 9. 

HOSEN:  See Hose. [Archaic] 

HOSIER:  One who deals in hose or stocking, or in goods knit or woven like hose. 

HOSPICE:  A convent or monastery which is also a place of refuge or entertainment for travelers on some difficult road or pass, as in the Alps; as, the Hospice of the Great St. Bernard. 

HOSPITABLENESS:  The quality of being hospitable; hospitality. Barrow. 

HOSPITABLY:  In a hospitable manner. 

HOSPITAGE:  Hospitality. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HOSPITAL:  Hospitable. [Obs.] Howell. 

HOSPITALISM:  A vitiated condition of the body, due to long confinement in a hospital, or the morbid condition of the atmosphere of a hospital. 

HOSPITALITY:  The act or practice of one who is hospitable; reception and entertainment of strangers or guests without reward, or with kind and generous liberality. Given to hospitality. Rom. xii. 13. And little recks to find the way to heaven By doing deeds of hospitality. Shak. 

HOSPITALIZE:  To render (a building) unfit for habitation, by long continued use as a hospital. 

HOSPITATE:  To receive hospitality; to be a guest. [Obs.] Grew. 

HOSPITATE:  To receive with hospitality; to lodge as a guest. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

HOSPITIUM:  An inn of court. 

HOSPODAR:  A title borne by the princes or governors of Moldavia and Wallachia before those countries were united as Roumania. 

HOST:  The consecrated wafer, believed to be the body of Christ, which in the Mass is offered as a sacrifice; also, the bread before consecration.  Note: In the Latin Vulgate the word was applied to the Savior as being an offering for the sins of men. 

HOST:  One who receives or entertains another, whether gratuitosly or for compensation; one from whom another receives food, lodging, or entertainment; a landlord. Chaucer. "Fair host and Earl." Tennyson. Time is like a fashionable host, That slightly shakes his parting guest by the hand. Shak. 

HOST:  To give entertainment to. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HOST:  To lodge at an inn; to take up entertainment. [Obs.] "Where you shall host." Shak. 

HOSTAGE:  A person given as a pledge or security for the performance of the conditions of a treaty or stipulations of any kind, on the performance of which the person is to be released. Your hostages I have, so have you mine; And we shall talk before we fight. Shak. He that hath a wife and children hath given hostages to fortune. Bacon. 

HOSTELRY:  An inn; a lodging house. [Archaic] Chaucer. "Homely brought up in a rude hostelry." B. Jonson. Come with me to the hostelry. Longfellow. 

HOSTESS:  The character, personality, or office of a hostess. Shak. 

HOSTIE:  The consecrated wafer; the host. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 

HOSTILE:  Belonging or appropriate to an enemy; showing the disposition of an enemy; showing ill will and malevolence, or a desire to thwart and injure; occupied by an enemy or enemies; inimical; unfriendly; as, a hostile force; hostile intentions; a hostile country; hostile to a sudden change.  Syn.  -- Warlike; inimical; unfriendly; antagonistic; opposed; adverse; opposite; contrary; repugnant. 

HOSTILE:  An enemy; esp., an American Indian in arms against the whites; -- commonly in the plural. [Colloq.] P. H. Sheridan. 

HOSTILELY:  In a hostile manner. 

HOSTILIZE:  To make hostile; to cause to become an enemy. [Obs.] A. Seward. 

HOSTLER:  The person who takes charge of a locomotive when it is left by the engineer after a trip. 

HOSTLESS:  Inhospitable. [Obs.] "A hostless house." Spenser.  HOST PLANT Host plant. (Agric.)  A plant which aids, shelters, or protects another plant in its growth, as those which are used for nurse crops. 

HOT:  of Hote. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HOTBED:  A bed of earth heated by fermenting manure or other substances, and covered with glass, intended for raising early plants, or for nourishing exotics.  2. A place which favors rapid growth or development; as, a hotbed of sedition.  HOT BLAST Hot" blast`.  See under Blast.  HOT-BLOODED Hot"-blood`ed, a.  Having hot blood; excitable; high-spirited; irritable; ardent; passionate.  HOT-BRAINED Hot"-brained`, a.  Ardent in temper; violent; rash; impetuous; as, hot-brained youth. Dryden.  HOT BULB; HOT POT Hot bulb, Hot pot. (Internal-combustion Engines)  See Semi-diesel, below.  HOTCHKISS GUN Hotch"kiss gun [After Benjamin B. Hotchkiss (1826-85), American inventor.]  A built-up, rifled, rapid-fire gun of oil-tempered steel, having a rectangular breechblock which moves horizontally or vertically in a mortise cut completely through the jacket. It is made in France.  HOTCHPOT; HOTCHPOTCH Hotch"pot`, Hotch"potch`, n. Etym: [F. hochepot, fr. hocher to shake + pot pot; both of Dutch or German origin; cf. OD. hutspot hotchpotch, D. hotsen, hutsen, to shake. See Hustle, and Pot, and cf. Hodgepodge.]  1. A mingled mass; a confused mixture; a stew of various ingredients; a hodgepodge. A mixture or hotchpotch of many tastes. Bacon.  2. (Law)  A blending of property for equality of division, as when lands given in frank-marriage to one daughter were, after the death of the ancestor, blended with the lands descending to her and to her sisters from the same ancestor, and then divided in equal portions among all the daughters. In modern usage, a mixing together, or throwing into a common mass or stock, of the estate left by a person deceased and the amounts advanced to any particular child or children, for the purpose of a more equal division, or of equalizing the shares of all the children; the property advanced being accounted for at its value when given. Bouvier. Tomlins.  Note: This term has been applied in cases of salvage. Story. It corresponds in a measure with collation in the civil and Scotch law. See Collation. Bouvier. Tomlins. 

HOTCOCKLES:  A childish play, in which one covers his eyes, and guesses who strikes him or his hand placed behind him. 

HOTEL:  A city hall or townhouse.  HOTEL-DIEU Hôtel`-Dieu", n. Etym: [F.]  A hospital. 

HOTEN:  of Hote. 

HOTFOOT:  In haste; foothot. [Colloq.]  HOT-HEAD Hot"-head`, n.  A violent, passionate person; a hasty or impetuous person; as, the rant of a hot-head.  HOT-HEADED Hot"-head`ed, a.  Fiery; violent; rash; hasty; impetuous; vehement. Macaulay. 

HOTHOUSE:  A heated room for drying green ware.  HOT-LIVERED Hot"-liv`ered, a.  Of an excitable or irritable temperament; irascible. Milton. 

HOTLY:  Headstrong. That hot-mouthed beast that bears against the curb. Dryden. 

HOTPRESS:  To apply to, in conjunction with mechanical pressure, for the purpose of giving a smooth and glosay surface, or to express oil, etc.; as, to hotpress paper, linen, etc. 

HOTPRESSED:  Pressed while heat is applied. See Hotpress, v. t.  HOT-SHORT Hot"-short`, a. (Metal.)  More or less brittle when heated; as, hot-short iron.  HOT-SPIRITED Hot"-spir`it*ed, a.  Having a fierly spirit; hot-headed. 

HOTSPUR:  A rash, hot-headed man. Holinshed.  HOTSPUR; HOTSPURRED Hot"spur`, Hot"spurred`, a.  Violent; impetuous; headstrong. Spenser. Peacham. 

HOTTENTOT:  One of a degraded and savage race of South Africa, with yellowish brown complexion, high cheek bones, and wooly hair growing in tufts.  2. The language of the Hottentots, which is remarkable for its clicking sounds. Hottentot cherry (Bot.), a South African plant of the genus Cassine (C. maurocenia), having handsome foliage, with generally inconspicuous white or green flowers. Loudon.  -- Hottentot's bread. (Bot.) See Elephant's foot (a), under Elephant. 

HOTTENTOTISM:  A term employed to describe one of the varieties of stammering. Tylor. 

HOUDAH:  See Howdah. 

HOUGH:  Same as Hock, a joint. 

HOUGH:  Same as Hock, to hamstring. 

HOUGH:  An adz; a hoe. [Obs.] Bp. Stillingfleet. 

HOUGH:  To cut with a hoe. [Obs.] Johnson. 

HOULET:  An owl. See Howlet. 

HOULT:  A piece of woodland; a small wood. [Obs.] See Holt. 

HOUND:  A variety of the domestic dog, usually having large, drooping ears, esp. one which hunts game by scent, as the foxhound, bloodhound, deerhound, but also used for various breeds of fleet hunting dogs, as the greyhound, boarhound, etc. Hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs. Shak.  2. A despicable person. "Boy! false hound!" Shak.  3. (Zoöl.)  A houndfish.  4. pl. (Naut.)  Projections at the masthead, serving as a support for the trestletrees and top to rest on.  5. A side bar used to strengthen portions of the running gear of a vehicle. To follow the hounds, to hunt with hounds. 

HOUNDFISH:  Any small shark of the genus Galeus or Mustelus, of which there are several species, as the smooth houndfish (G. canis), of Europe and America; -- called also houndshark, and dogfish.  Note: The European nursehound, or small-spotted dogfish, is Scyllium canicula; the rough houndfish, or large-spotted dogfish, is S. catulus. The name has also sometimes been applied to the bluefish (Pomatomus saltatrix), and to the silver gar. 

HOUNDING:  The part of a mast below the hounds and above the deck.  HOUND'S-TONGUE Hound's"-tongue`, n. Etym: [AS. hundes tunge.] (Bot.)  A biennial weed (Cynoglossum officinale), with soft tongue- shaped leaves, and an offensive odor. It bears nutlets covered with barbed or hooked prickles. Called also dog's-tongue. 

HOUP:  See Hoopoe. [Obs.] 

HOUR:  Certain prayers to be repeated at stated times of the day, as matins and vespers.  5. A measure of distance traveled. Vilvoorden, three hours from Brussels. J. P. Peters. After hours, after the time appointed for one's regular labor.  -- Canonical hours. See under Canonical.  -- Hour angle (Astron.), the angle between the hour circle passing through a given body, and the meridian of a place.  -- Hour circle. (Astron.) (a) Any circle of the sphere passing through the two poles of the equator; esp., one of the circles drawn on an artificial globe through the poles, and dividing the equator into spaces of 15º, or one hour, each. (b) A circle upon an equatorial telescope lying parallel to the plane of the earth's equator, and graduated in hours and subdivisions of hours of right ascension. (c) A small brass circle attached to the north pole of an artificial globe, and divided into twenty-four parts or hours. It is used to mark differences of time in working problems on the globe.  -- Hour hand, the hand or index which shows the hour on a timepiece.  -- Hour line. (a) (Astron.) A line indicating the hour. (b) (Dialing) A line on which the shadow falls at a given hour; the intersection of an hour circle which the face of the dial.  -- Hour plate, the plate of a timepiece on which the hours are marked; the dial. Locke.  -- Sidereal hour, the twenty-fourth part of a sidereal day.  -- Solar hour, the twenty-fourth part of a solar day.  -- The small hours, the early hours of the morning, as one o'clock, two o'clock, etc.  -- To keep good hours, to be regular in going to bed early. 

HOURGLASS:  An instrument for measuring time, especially the interval of an hour. It consists of a glass vessel having two compartments, from the uppermost of which a quantity of sand, water, or mercury occupies an hour in running through a small aperture unto the lower.  Note: A similar instrument measuring any other interval of time takes its name from the interval measured; as, a half-hour glass, a half- minute glass. A three-minute glass is sometimes called an egg-glass, from being used to time the boiling of eggs. 

HOURI:  A nymph of paradise; -- so called by the Mohammedans. 

HOURLY:  Happening or done every hour; occurring hour by hour; frequent; often repeated; renewed hour by hour; continual. In hourly expectation of a martyrdom. Sharp. 

HOURLY:  Every hour; frequently; continually. Great was their strife, which hourly was renewed. Dryden. 

HOURS:  Goddess of the seasons, or of the hours of the day. Lo! where the rosy-blosomed Hours, Fair Venus' train, appear. Gray. 

HOUSAGE:  A fee for keeping goods in a house. [R.] Chambers. 

HOUSE:  A firm, or commercial establishment.  7. A public house; an inn; a hotel.  8. (Astrol.)  A twelfth part of the heavens, as divided by six circles intersecting at the north and south points of the horizon, used by astrologers in noting the positions of the heavenly bodies, and casting horoscopes or nativities. The houses were regarded as fixed in respect to the horizon, and numbered from the one at the eastern horizon, called the ascendant, first house, or house of life, downward, or in the direction of the earth's revolution, the stars and planets passing through them in the reverse order every twenty- four hours.  9. A square on a chessboard, regarded as the proper place of a piece.  10. An audience; an assembly of hearers, as at a lecture, a theater, etc.; as, a thin or a full house.  11. The body, as the habitation of the soul. This mortal house I'll ruin, Do Cæsar what he can. Shak.  12. [With an adj., as narrow, dark, etc.]  The grave. "The narrow house." Bryant.  Note: House is much used adjectively and as the first element of compounds. The sense is usually obvious; as, house cricket, housemaid, house painter, housework. House ant (Zoöl.), a very small, yellowish brown ant (Myrmica molesta), which often infests houses, and sometimes becomes a great pest.  -- House of bishops (Prot. Epis. Ch.), one of the two bodies composing a general convertion, the other being House of Clerical and Lay Deputies.  -- House boat, a covered boat used as a dwelling.  -- House of call, a place, usually a public house, where journeymen connected with a particular trade assemble when out of work, ready for the call of employers. [Eng.] Simonds.  -- House car (Railroad), a freight car with inclosing sides and a roof; a box car.  -- House of correction. See Correction.  -- House cricket (Zoöl.), a European cricket (Gryllus domesticus), which frequently lives in houses, between the bricks of chimneys and fireplaces. It is noted for the loud chirping or stridulation of the males.  -- House dog, a dog kept in or about a dwelling house.  -- House finch (Zoöl.), the burion.  -- House flag, a flag denoting the commercial house to which a merchant vessel belongs.  -- House fly (Zoöl.), a common fly (esp. Musca domestica), which infests houses both in Europe and America. Its larva is a maggot which lives in decaying substances or excrement, about sink drains, etc.  -- House of God, a temple or church.  -- House of ill fame. See Ill fame under Ill, a.  -- House martin (Zoöl.), a common European swallow (Hirundo urbica). It has feathered feet, and builds its nests of mud against the walls of buildings. Called also house swallow, and window martin.  -- House mouse (Zoöl.), the common mouse (Mus musculus).  -- House physician, the resident medical adviser of a hospital or other public institution.  -- House snake (Zoöl.), the milk snake.  -- House sparrow (Zoöl.), the common European sparrow (Passer domesticus). It has recently been introduced into America, where it has become very abundant, esp. in cities. Called also thatch sparrow.  -- House spider (Zoöl.), any spider which habitually lives in houses. Among the most common species are Theridium tepidariorum and Tegenaria domestica.  -- House surgeon, the resident surgeon of a hospital.  -- House wren (Zoöl.), the common wren of the Eastern United States (Troglodytes aëdon). It is common about houses and in gardens, and is noted for its vivacity, and loud musical notes. See Wren.  -- Religious house, a monastery or convent.  -- The White House, the official residence of the President of the United States; -- hence, colloquially, the office of President.  -- To bring down the house. See under Bring.  -- To keep house, to maintain an independent domestic establishment.  -- To keep open house, to entertain friends at all times.  Syn.  -- Dwelling; residence; abode. See Tenement. 

HOUSE:  To stow in a safe place; to take down and make safe; as, to house the upper spars. 

HOUSE:  To have a position in one of the houses. See House, n.,  8. "Where Saturn houses." Dryden. 

HOUSEBOTE:  Wood allowed to a tenant for repairing the house and for fuel. This latter is often called firebote. See Bote. 

HOUSEBREAKER:  One who is guilty of the crime of housebreaking. 

HOUSEBREAKING:  The act of breaking open and entering, with a felonious purpose, the dwelling house of another, whether done by day or night. See Burglary, and To break a house, under Break. 

HOUSEBUILDER:  One whose business is to build houses; a housewright. 

HOUSECARL:  A household servant; also, one of the bodyguard of King Canute. 

HOUSEHOLD:  Belonging to the house and family; domestic; as, household furniture; household affairs. Household bread, bread made in the house for common use; hence, bread that is not of the finest quality. [Obs.] -- Household gods (Rom. Antiq.), the gods presiding over the house and family; the Lares and Penates; hence, all objects endeared by association with home.  -- Household troops, troops appointed to attend and guard the sovereign or his residence. 

HOUSEHOLDER:  The master or head of a family; one who occupies a house with his family. Towns in which almost every householder was an English Protestant. Macaulay. Compound householder. See Compound, a. 

HOUSEKEEPING:  Domestic; used in a family; as, housekeeping commodities. 

HOUSEL:  The eucharist. [Archaic] Rom. of R. Tennyson. 

HOUSEL:  To administer the eucharist to. [Archaic] Chaucer. 

HOUSELEEK:  A succulent plant of the genus Sempervivum (S. tectorum), originally a native of subalpine Europe, but now found very generally on old walls and roofs. It is very tenacious of life under drought and heat; -- called also ayegreen. 

HOUSELESS:  Destitute of the shelter of a house; shelterless; homeless; as, a houseless wanderer. 

HOUSELESSNESS:  The state of being houseless. 

HOUSELINE:  A small line of three strands used for seizing; -- called also housing. Totten. 

HOUSELING:  Same as Housling. 

HOUSEMAID:  A female servant employed to do housework, esp. to take care of the rooms. Housemaid's knee (Med.), a swelling over the knee, due to an enlargement of the bursa in the front of the kneepan; -- so called because frequently occurring in servant girls who work upon their knees. 

HOUSEMATE:  One who dwells in the same house with another. R. Browning. 

HOUSEROOM:  Room or place in a house; as, to give any one houseroom. 

HOUSEWARMING:  A feast or merry-making made by or for a family or business firm on taking possession of a new house or premises. Johnson. 

HOUSEWIFE:  A little case or bag for materials used in sewing, and for other articles of female work; -- called also hussy. [Written also huswife.] P. Skelton.  3. A hussy. [R.] [Usually written huswife.] Shak. Sailor's housewife, a ditty-bag.  HOUSEWIFE; HOUSEWIVE House"wife`, House"wive`, v. t.  To manage with skill and economy, as a housewife or other female manager; to economize. Conferred those moneys on the nuns, which since they have well housewived. Fuller. 

HOUSEWIFELY:  Pertaining or appropriate to a housewife; domestic; economical; prudent. A good sort of woman, ladylike and housewifely. Sir W. Scott. 

HOUSEWIFERY:  The business of the mistress of a family; female management of domestic concerns. 

HOUSEWORK:  The work belonging to housekeeping; especially, kitchen work, sweeping, scrubbing, bed making, and the like. 

HOUSEWRIGHT:  A builder of houses. 

HOUSING:  A frame or support for holding something in place, as journal boxes, etc.  5. (Naut.) (a) That portion of a mast or bowsprit which is beneath the deck or within the vessel. (b) A covering or protection, as an awning over the deck of a ship when laid up. (c) A houseline. See Houseline. 

HOUSLING:  Sacramental; as, housling fire. [R.] Spenser. 

HOUSS:  A saddlecloth; a housing. [Obs.] Dryden. 

HOUSTONIA:  A genus of small rubiaceous herbs, having tetramerous salveform blue or white flower. There are about twenty species, natives of North America. Also, a plant of this genus. 

HOUTOU:  A beautiful South American motmot. Waterton. 

HOUVE:  A head covering of various kinds; a hood; a coif; a cap. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOUYHNHNM:  One of the race of horses described by Swift in his imaginary travels of Lemuel Gulliver. The Houyhnhnms were endowed with reason and noble qualities; subject to them were Yahoos, a race of brutes having the form and all the worst vices of men. 

HOVE:  of Heave. Hove short, Hove to. See To heave a cable short, To heave a ship to, etc., under Heave. 

HOVE:  To rise; to swell; to heave; to cause to swell. [Obs. or Scot.] Holland. Burns. 

HOVE:  To hover around; to loiter; to lurk. [Obs.] Gower. 

HOVEL:  A large conical brick structure around which the firing kilns are grouped. Knight. 

HOVEL:  To put in a hovel; to shelter. To hovel thee with swine, and rogues forlon. Shak. The poor are hoveled and hustled together. Tennyson. 

HOVELER:  One who assists in saving life and property from a wreck; a coast boatman. [Written also hoveller.] [Prov. Eng.] G. P. R. James. 

HOVELING:  A method of securing a good draught in chimneys by covering the top, leaving openings in the sides, or by carrying up two of the sides higher than the other two. [Written also hovelling.] 

HOVEN:  p. p. of Heave. 

HOVEN:  Affected with the disease called hoove; as, hoven cattle. 

HOVER:  A cover; a shelter; a protection. [Archaic] Carew. C. Kingsley. 

HOVERER:  A device in an incubator for protecting the young chickens and keeping them warm.  HOVER-HAWK Hov"er-hawk`, n. (Zoöl.)  The kestrel. 

HOVERINGLY:  In a hovering manner. 

HOWBEIT:  Be it as it may; nevertheless; notwithstanding; although; albeit; yet; but; however. The Moor -- howbeit that I endure him not -Is of a constant, loving, noble nature. Shak. 

HOWDAH:  A seat or pavilion, generally covered, fastened on the back of an elephant, for the rider or riders. [Written also houdah.] 

HOWDY:  A midwife. [Prov. Eng.] 

HOWEL:  A tool used by coopers for smoothing and chamfering rheir work, especially the inside of casks. 

HOWEL:  To smooth; to plane; as, to howel a cask. 

HOWELL:  The upper stage of a porcelian furnace. 

HOWEVER:  Nevertheless; notwithstanding; yet; still; though; as, I shall not oppose your design; I can not, however, approve of it. In your excuse your love does little say; You might howe'er have took a better way. Dryden.  Syn.  -- However, At least, Nevertheless, Yet. These words, as here compared, have an adversative sense in reference to something referred to in the context. However is the most general, and leads to a final conclusion or decision. Thus we say, the truth, however, has not yet fully come out; i.e., such is the speaker's conclusion in view of the whole case. So also we say, however, you may rely on my assistance to that amount; i. e., at all events, whatever may happen, this is my final decision. At least is adversative in another way. It points out the utmost concession that can possibly be required, and still marks the adversative conclusion; as, at least, this must be done; whatever may be our love of peace, we must at least maintain the rights of conscience. Nevertheless denotes that though the concession be fully made, it has no bearing of the question; as, nevertheless, we must go forward. Yet signifies that however extreme the supposition or fact comceded may be, the consequence which might naturally be expected does not and will not follow; as, though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee; though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. Cf. But. 

HOWITZ:  A howitzer. [Obs.] 

HOWKER:  Same as Hooker. 

HOWL:  To utter with outcry. "Go . . . howl it out in deserts." Philips. 

HOWLER:  Any South American monkey of the genus Mycetes. Many species are known. They are arboreal in their habits, and are noted for the loud, discordant howling in which they indulge at night. 

HOWLET:  An owl; an owlet. [Written also houlet.] R. Browning. 

HOWP:  To cry out; to whoop. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HOWSO:  Howsoever. [Obs.] 

HOWVE:  A hood. See Houve. [Obs.] 

HOX:  To hock; to hamstring. See Hock. [Obs.] Shak. 

HOY:  A small coaster vessel, usually sloop-rigged, used in conveying passengers and goods from place to place, or as a tender to larger vessels in port. The hoy went to London every week. Cowper. 

HOY:  Ho! Halloe! Stop! 

HOYDEN:  Same as Hoiden. 

HOYMAN:  One who navigates a hoy. A common hoyman to carry goods by water for hire. Hobart. 

HSIEN:  An administrative subdivision of a fu, or department, or of an independent chow; also, the seat of government of such a district. 

HUANACO:  See Guanaco. 

HUARACHO:  A kind of sandal worn by Indians and the lower classes generally; --usually used in pl. [Southern U. S. & Mex.] 

HUB:  A hardened, engraved steel punch for impressing a device upon a die, used in coining, etc.  6. A screw hob. See Hob,  3.  7. A block for scotching a wheel. Hub plank (Highway Bridges), a horizontal guard plank along a truss at the height of a wagon-wheel hub.  -- Up to the hub, as far as possible in embarrassment or difficulty, or in business, like a wheel sunk in mire; deeply involved. [Colloq.]  HUBBLE-BUBBLE Hub"ble-bub`ble, n.  A tobacco pipe, so arranged that the smoke passes through water, making a bubbling noise, whence its name. In India, the bulb containing the water is often a cocoanut shell. 

HUBBUB:  A loud noise of many confused voices; a tumult; uproar. Milton. This hubbub of unmeaning words. Macaulay. 

HUBBY:  Full of hubs or protuberances; as, a road that has been frozen while muddy is hubby. [U.S.]  HUBNER; HUEBNER Hüb"ner, n. Etym: [After Hübner, who analyzed it.] (Min.)  A mineral of brownish black color, occurring in columnar or foliated masses. It is native manganese tungstate.  HUCH; HUCHEN Huch, Hu"chen, n. Etym: [G.] (Zoöl.)  A large salmon (Salmo, or Salvelinus, hucho) inhabiting the Danube; -- called also huso, and bull trout. 

HUCK:  To higgle in trading. [Obs.] Holland. 

HUCKABACK:  A kind of linen cloth with raised figures, used for towelings. 

HUCKLE:  Round-shoulded. 

HUCKSTER:  To deal in small articles, or in petty bargains. Swift. 

HUCKSTERAGE:  The business of a huckster; small dealing; peddling. Ignoble huckster age of piddling tithes. Milton. 

HUCKSTERER:  A huckster. Gladstone. Those hucksterers or money-jobbers. Swift. 

HUCKSTRESS:  A female huckster. 

HUD:  A huck or hull, as of a nut. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

HUDDLE:  To press together promiscuously, from confusion, apprehension, or the like; to crowd together confusedly; to press or hurry in disorder; to crowd. The cattle huddled on the lea. Tennyson. Huddling together on the public square . . . like a herd of panic- struck deer. Prescott. 

HUDDLE:  A crowd; a number of persons or things crowded together in a confused manner; tumult; confusion. "A huddle of ideas." Addison. 

HUDDLER:  One who huddles things together. 

HUDGE:  An iron bucket for hoisting coal or ore. Raymond. 

HUDIBRASTIC:  Similar to, or in the style of, the poem "Hudibras," by Samuel Butler; in the style of doggerel verse. Macaulay. 

HUDSONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Hudson's Bay or to the Hudson River; as, the Hudsonian curlew. 

HUE:  A predominant shade in a composition of primary colors; a primary color modified by combination with others. 

HUE:  A shouting or vociferation. Hue and cry (Law), a loud outcry with which felons were anciently pursued, and which all who heard it were obliged to take up, joining in the pursuit till the malefactor was taken; in later usage, a written proclamation issued on the escape of a felon from prison, requiring all persons to aid in retaking him. Burrill. 

HUED:  Having color; -- usually in composition; as, bright-hued; many- hued. Chaucer. 

HUELESS:  Destitute of color. Hudibras. 

HUER:  One who cries out or gives an alarm; specifically, a balker; a conder. See Balker. 

HUFF:  To remove from the board (the piece which could have captured an opposing piece). See Huff, v. i., 3. 

HUFF:  To remove from the board a man which could have captured a piece but has not done so; -- so called because it was the habit to blow upon the piece. 

HUFFCAP:  A blusterer; a bully. [Obs.] -- a.  Blustering; swaggering. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

HUFFER:  A bully; a blusterer. Hudibras. 

HUFFINESS:  The state of being huffish; petulance; bad temper. Ld. Lytton. 

HUFFINGLY:  Blusteringly; arrogantly. [R.] And huffingly doth this bonny Scot ride. Old Ballad. 

HUFFISH:  Disposed to be blustering or arrogant; petulant.  -- Huff"ish*ly, adv.  -- Huff"ish*ness, n. 

HUG:  To keep close to; as, to hug the land; to hug the wind. To hug one's self, to congratulate one's self; to chuckle. 

HUG:  A close embrace or clasping with the arms, as in affection or in wrestling. Fuller. 

HUGE:  Very large; enormous; immense; excessive; -- used esp. of material bulk, but often of qualities, extent, etc.; as, a huge ox; a huge space; a huge difference. "The huge confusion." Chapman. "A huge filly." Jer. Taylor.  -- Huge"ly, adv.  -- Huge"ness, n. Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea. Shak.  Syn.  -- Enormous; gigantic; colossal; immense; prodigious; vast. 

HUGGER:  One who hugs or embraces. 

HUGGER:  To conceal; to lurk ambush. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.  HUGGER-MUGGER Hug"ger-mug`ger, n. Etym: [Scot. huggrie-muggrie; Prov. E. hugger to lie in ambush, mug mist, muggard sullen.]  Privacy; secrecy. Commonly in the phrase in hugger-mugger, with haste and secrecy. [Archaic] Many things have been done in hugger-mugger. Fuller.  HUGGER-MUGGER Hug"ger-mug`ger, a.  1. Secret; clandestine; sly.  2. Confused; disorderly; slovenly; mean; as, hugger-mugger doings. 

HUGGLE:  To hug. [Obs.] 

HUGUENOT:  A French Protestant of the period of the religious wars in France in the 16th century. 

HUGUENOTISM:  The religion of the Huguenots in France. 

HUGY:  Vast. [Obs.] Dryden.  HUIA BIRD Hu"ia bird`. Etym: [Native name; -- so called from its cry.] (Zoöl.)  A New Zealand starling (Heteralocha acutirostris), remarkable for the great difference in the form and length of the bill in the two sexes, that of the male being sharp and straight, that of the female much longer and strongly curved. 

HUISHER:  See Usher. B. Jonson. 

HUISHER:  To usher. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

HUKE:  An outer garment worn in Europe in the Middle Ages. [Written also heuk and hyke.] [Obs.] Bacon. 

HULAN:  See Uhlan. 

HULCH:  A hunch. [Obs.] 

HULCHY:  Swollen; gibbous. [Obs.] 

HULK:  To take out the entrails of; to disembowel; as, to hulk a hare. [R.] Beau. & Fl.  HULKING; HULKY Hulk"ing, Hulk"y, a.  Bulky; unwiedly. [R.] "A huge hulking fellow." H. Brooke. 

HULL:  The frame or body of a vessel, exclusive of her masts, yards, sails, and rigging. Deep in their hulls our deadly bullets light. Dryden. Hull down, said of a ship so distant that her hull is concealed by the convexity of the sea. 

HULL:  To toss or drive on the water, like the hull of a ship without sails. [Obs.] Shak. Milton. 

HULLABALOO:  A confused noise; uproar; tumult. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

HULLED:  Deprived of the hulls. Hulled corn, kernels of maize prepared for food by removing the hulls. 

HULLER:  One who, or that which, hulls; especially, an agricultural machine for removing the hulls from grain; a hulling machine. 

HULLO:  See Hollo. 

HULLY:  Having or containing hulls. 

HULOIST:  See Hyloist. 

HULOTHEISM:  See Hylotheism. 

HULVER:  Holly, an evergreen shrub or tree. 

HUM:  To make an inarticulate sound, like h'm, through the nose in the process of speaking, from embarrassment or a affectation; to hem.  4. To express satisfaction by a humming noise. Here the spectators hummed. Trial of the Regicides.  Note: Formerly the habit of audiences was to express gratification by humming and displeasure by hissing.  5. To have the sensation of a humming noise; as, my head hums, -- a pathological condition. 

HUM:  An inarticulate nasal sound or murmur, like h'm, uttered by a speaker in pause from embarrassment, affectation, etc. THese shrugs, these hums and ha's. Shak.  5. Etym: [Perh. so called because strongly intoxicating.]  A kind of strong drink formerly used. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. Venous hum. See under Venous. 

HUM:  Ahem; hem; an inarticulate sound uttered in a pause of speech implying doubt and deliberation. Pope. 

HUMAN:  Belonging to man or mankind; having the qualities or attributes of a man; of or pertaining to man or to the race of man; as, a human voice; human shape; human nature; human sacrifices. To err is human; to forgive, divine. Pope. 

HUMAN:  A human being. [Colloq.] Sprung of humans that inhabit earth. Chapman. We humans often find ourselves in strange position. Prof. Wilson. 

HUMANATE:  Indued with humanity. [Obs.] Cranmer. 

HUMANICS:  The study of human nature. [R.] T. W. Collins. 

HUMANIFY:  To make human; to invest with a human personality; to incarnate. [R.] The humanifying of the divine Word. H. B. Wilson. 

HUMANITARIAN:  Pertaining to humanitarians, or to humanitarianism; as, a humanitarian view of Christ's nature.  2. (Philos.)  Content with right affections and actions toward man; ethical, as distinguished from religious; believing in the perfectibility of man's nature without supernatural aid.  3. Benevolent; philanthropic. [Recent] 

HUMANITARIAN:  One who denies the divinity of Christ, and believes him to have been merely human.  2. (Philos.)  One who limits the sphere of duties to human relations and affections, to the exclusion or disparagement of the religious or spiritual.  3. One who is actively concerned in promoting the welfare of his kind; a philanthropist. [Recent] 

HUMANITARIANISM:  The distinctive tenet of the humanitarians in denying the divinity of Christ; also, the whole system of doctrine based upon this view of Christ.  2. (Philos.)  The doctrine that man's obligations are limited to, and dependent alone upon, man and the human relations. 

HUMANITIAN:  A humanist. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

HUMANITY:  The branches of polite or elegant learning; as language, rhetoric, poetry, and the ancient classics; belles-letters.  Note: The cultivation of the languages, literature, history, and archæology of Greece and Rome, were very commonly called literæ humaniores, or, in English, the humanities, . . . by way of opposition to the literæ divinæ, or divinity. G. P. Marsh. 

HUMANIZATION:  The act of humanizing. M. Arnold. 

HUMANIZE:  To convert into something human or belonging to man; as, to humanize vaccine lymph. 

HUMANIZE:  To become or be made more humane; to become civilized; to be ameliorated. By the original law of nations, war and extirpation were the punishment of injury. Humanizing by degrees, it admitted slavery instead of death; a further step was the exchange of prisoners instead of slavery. Franklin. 

HUMANIZER:  One who renders humane. 

HUMANKIND:  Mankind. Pope. 

HUMANNESS:  The quality or state of being human. 

HUMATE:  A salt of humic acid. 

HUMATION:  Interment; inhumation. [R.] 

HUMBIRD:  Humming bird. 

HUMBLE:  Hornless. See Hummel. [Scot.] 

HUMBLEBEE:  The bumblebee. Shak. 

HUMBLEHEAD:  Humble condition or estate; humility. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HUMBLENESS:  The quality of being humble; humility; meekness. 

HUMBLER:  One who, or that which, humbles some one. 

HUMBLES:  Entrails of a deer. [Written also umbles.] Johnson. 

HUMBLESSE:  Humbleness; abasement; low obeisance. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

HUMBLY:  With humility; lowly. Pope. 

HUMBUG:  To deceive; to impose; to cajole; to hoax. 

HUMBUGGER:  One who humbugs. 

HUMBUGGERY:  The practice of imposition. 

HUMDRUM:  Monotonous; dull; commonplace. "A humdrum crone." Bryant. 

HUMDRUM:  To moisten; to wet. [Obs.] Howell. 

HUMECTANT:  Diluent.  -- n.  A diluent drink or medicine. [Obs.] 

HUMECTATION:  A moistening. [Obs.] Bacon. 

HUMECTIVE:  Tending to moisten. [Obs.] 

HUMERAL:  Of or pertaining to the humerus, or upper part of the arm; brachial. Humeral veil (R. C. Ch.), a long, narrow veil or scarf of the same material as the vestments, worn round the shoulders by the officiating priest or his attendant at Mass, and used to protect the sacred vessels from contact with the hands. 

HUMIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, vegetable mold; as, humic acid. See Humin. 

HUMICUBATION:  The act or practice of lying on the ground. [Obs.] Abp. Bramhall. 

HUMID:  Containing sensible moisture; damp; moist; as, a humidair or atmosphere; somewhat wet or watery; as, humid earth; consisting of water or vapor. Evening cloud, or humid bow. Milton. 

HUMIDITY:  Moisture; dampness; a moderate degree of wetness, which is perceptible to the eye or touch; -- used especially of the atmosphere, or of anything which has absorbed moisture from the atmosphere, as clothing.  Note: In hygrometrical reports (as of the United States Signal Service) complete saturation of the air is designated by Humidity 100, and its partial saturation by smaller numbers. 

HUMIDNESS:  Humidity. 

HUMIFUSE:  Spread over the surface of the ground; procumbent. Gray. 

HUMILIANT:  Humiliating; humbling. "Humiliant thoughts." [R.] Mrs. Browning. 

HUMILIATE:  To reduce to a lower position in one's own eyes, or in the eyes of others; to humble; to mortify. We stand humiliated rather than encouraged. M. Arnold. 

HUMIN:  A bitter, brownish yellow, amorphous substance, extracted from vegetable mold, and also produced by the action of acids on certain sugars and carbohydrates; -- called also humic acid, ulmin, gein, ulmic or geic acid, etc. 

HUMIRI:  A fragrant balsam obtained from Brazilian trees of the genus Humirium. 

HUMITE:  A mineral of a transparent vitreous brown color, found in the ejected masses of Vesuvius. It is a silicate of iron and magnesia, containing fluorine. 

HUMMEL:  To separate from the awns; -- said of barley. [Scot.] 

HUMMEL:  Having no awns or no horns; as, hummelcorn; a hummel cow. [Scot.] 

HUMMELER:  One who, or a machine which, hummels. 

HUMMER:  A humming bird. 

HUMMING:  Emitting a murmuring sound; droning; murmuring; buzzing. 

HUMMING:  A sound like that made by bees; a low, murmuring sound; a hum. Hummingale, lively or strong ale. Dryden.  -- Humming bird (Zoöl.), any bird of the family Trochilidæ, of which over one hundred genera are known, including about four hundred species. They are found only in America and are most abundant in the tropics. They are mostly of very small size, and are not for their very brilliant colors and peculiar habit of hovering about flowers while vibrating their wings very rapidly with a humming noise. They feed both upon the nectar of flowers and upon small insects. The common humming bird or ruby-throat of the Eastern United States is Trochilus culubris. Several other species are found in the Western United States. See Calliope, and Ruby-throat.  -- Humming-bird moth (Zoöl.), a hawk moth. See Hawk moth, under Hawk, the bird. 

HUMMOCKING:  The process of forming hummocks in the collision of Arctic ice. Kane. 

HUMMOCKY:  Abounding in hummocks. 

HUMMUM:  A sweating bath or place for sweating. Sir T. Herbert. 

HUMOR:  A vitiated or morbid animal fluid, such as often causes an eruption on the skin. "A body full of humors." Sir W. Temple.  3. State of mind, whether habitual or temporary (as formerly supposed to depend on the character or combination of the fluids of the body); disposition; temper; mood; as, good humor; ill humor. Examine how your humor is inclined, And which the ruling passion of your mind. Roscommon. A prince of a pleasant humor. Bacon. I like not the humor of lying. Shak.  4. pl.  Changing and uncertain states of mind; caprices; freaks; vagaries; whims. Is my friend all perfection, all virtue and discretion Has he not humors to be endured South.  5. That quality of the imagination which gives to ideas an incongruous or fantastic turn, and tends to excite laughter or mirth by ludicrous images or representations; a playful fancy; facetiousness. For thy sake I admit That a Scot may have humor, I'd almost said wit. Goldsmith. A great deal of excellent humor was expended on the perplexities of mine host. W. Irving. Aqueous humor, Crystalline humor or lens, Vitreous humor. (Anat.) See Eye.  -- Out of humor, dissatisfied; displeased; in an unpleasant frame of mind.  Syn.  -- Wit; satire; pleasantry; temper; disposition; mood; frame; whim; fancy; caprice. See Wit. 

HUMORAL:  Pertaining to, or proceeding from, the humors; as, a humoral fever. Humoral pathology (Med.), the pathology, or doctrine of the nature of diseases, which attributes all morbid phenomena to the disordered condition of the fluids or humors of the body. 

HUMORALISM:  The state or quality of being humoral.  2. (Med.)  The doctrine that diseases proceed from the humors; humorism. [Obs.] 

HUMORALIST:  One who favors the humoral pathology or believes in humoralism. 

HUMORISM:  The theory founded on the influence which the humors were supposed to have in the production of disease; Galenism. Dunglison.  2. The manner or disposition of a humorist; humorousness. Coleridge. 

HUMORIST:  One who attributes diseases of the state of the humors.  2. One who has some peculiarity or eccentricity of character, which he indulges in odd or whimsical ways. He [Roger de Coverley] . . . was a great humorist in all parts of his life. Addison.  3. One who displays humor in speaking or writing; one who has a facetious fancy or genius; a wag; a droll. The reputation of wits and humorists. Addison. 

HUMORISTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a humorist. 

HUMORIZE:  To humor. Marston. 

HUMORLESS:  Destitute of humor. 

HUMORSOMELY:  Pleasantly; humorously. 

HUMORSOMENESS:  Quality of being humorsome. 

HUMP:  A fleshy protuberance on the back of an animal, as a camel or whale. 

HUMPBACKED:  Having a humped back.  HUMPBACKED SALMON Hump"backed` salm"on.  A small salmon (Oncorhynchus gorbuscha) which ascends the rivers of the Pacific coast from California to Alaska, and also on the Asiatic side. In the breeding season the male has a large dorsal hump and distorted jaws. 

HUMPED:  Having a hump, as the back. 

HUMPH:  An exclamation denoting surprise, or contempt, doubt, etc. 

HUMPLESS:  Without a hump. Darwin.  HUMP-SHOULDERED Hump"-shoul`dered, a.  Having high, hunched shoulders. Hawthorne. 

HUMPY:  Full of humps or bunches; covered with protuberances; humped. 

HUMSTRUM:  An instrument out of tune or rudely constructed; music badly played. 

HUMULIN:  An extract of hops. 

HUMUS:  That portion of the soil formed by the decomposition of animal or vegetable matter. It is a valuable constituent of soils. Graham. 

HUN:  One of a warlike nomadic people of Northern Asia who, in the 5th century, under Atilla, invaded and conquered a great part of Europe. 

HUNCHBACK:  A back with a hunch or hump; also, a hunchbacked person. 

HUNCHBACKED:  Having a humped back. 

HUNDRED:  Ten times ten; five score; as, a hundred dollars. 

HUNDREDER:  A person competent to serve on a jury, in an action for land in the hundred to which he belongs.  3. One who has the jurisdiction of a hundred; and sometimes, a bailiff of a hundred. Blount. Cowell. 

HUNDREDFOLD:  A hundred times as much or as many. He shall receive as hundredfold now in this time. Mark x. 30. 

HUNDREDTH:  One of a hundred equal parts into which one whole is, or may be, divided; the quotient of a unit divided by a hundred. 

HUNDREDWEIGHT:  A denomination of weight, containing 100, 112, or 120 pounds avoirdupois, according to differing laws or customs. By the legal standard of England it is 112 pounds. In most of the United States, both in practice and by law, it is 100 pounds avoirdupois, the corresponding ton of 2,000 pounds, sometimes called the short ton, beingthe legal ton. 

HUNG:  of Hang. Hung beef, the fleshy part of beef slightly salted and hung up to dry; dried beef. 

HUNGARIAN:  Of or pertaining to Hungary or to the people of Hungary.  -- n.  A native or one of the people of Hungary. Hungarian grass. See Italian millet, under Millet. 

HUNGARY:  A country in Central Europe, now a part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Hungary water, a distilled "water," made from dilute alcohol aromatized with rosemary flowers, etc. 

HUNGER:  To make hungry; to famish.  HUNGER-BIT; HUNGER-BITTEN Hun"ger-bit`, Hun"ger-bit`ten, a.  Pinched or weakened by hunger. [Obs.] Milton. 

HUNGERED:  Hungry; pinched for food. [Obs.] Milton. 

HUNGERER:  One who hungers; one who longs. Lamb. 

HUNGERLY:  Wanting food; starved. [Obs.] Shak. 

HUNGERLY:  With keen appetite. [Obs.] Shak.  HUNGER-STARVE Hun"ger-starve`, v. t.  To starve with hunger; to famish. [Obs.] Shak. 

HUNGRED:  Hungered; hungry. [Archaic] 

HUNGRILY:  In a hungry manner; voraciously. Dryden. 

HUNK:  A large lump or piece; a hunch; as, a hunk of bread. [Colloq.] 

HUNKER:  Originally, a nickname for a member of the conservative section of the Democratic party in New York; hence, one opposed to progress in general; a fogy. [Political Cant, U.S.] 

HUNKERISM:  Excessive conservatism; hostility to progress. [Political Cant, U.S.] 

HUNKERS:  In the phrase on one's hunkers, in a squatting or crouching position. [Scot. & Local, U. S.]  Sit on your hunkers -- and pray for the bridge. Kipling. 

HUNKS:  A covetous, sordid man; a miser; a niggard. Pray make your bargain with all the prudence and selfishness of an old hunks. Gray. 

HUNKY:  All right; in a good condition; also, even; square. [Slang, U. S.]  He . . . began to shoot; began to get "hunky" with all those people who had been plugging at him. Stephen Crane. 

HUNT:  A worthless dog that runs back on the scent; a blunderer. [Obs.] Shak. 

HUNTE:  A hunter. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HUNTER:  A kind of spider. See Hunting spider, under Hunting.  6. A hunting watch, or one of which the crystal is protected by a metallic cover. Hunter's room, the lunation after the harvest moon.  -- Hunter's screw (Mech.), a differential screw, so named from the inventor. See under Differential. 

HUNTERIAN:  Discovered or described by John Hunter, an English surgeon; as, the Hunterian chancre. See Chancre. 

HUNTING:  The pursuit of game or of wild animals. A. Smith. Happy hunting grounds, the region to which, according to the belief of American Indians, the souls of warriors and hunters pass after death, to be happy in hunting and feasting. Tylor.  -- Hunting box. Same As Hunting lodge (below).  -- Hunting cat (Zoöl.), the cheetah.  -- Hunting cog (Mach.), a tooth in the larger of two geared wheels which makes its number of teeth prime to the number in the smaller wheel, thus preventing the frequent meeting of the same pairs of teeth.  -- Hunting dog (Zoöl.), the hyena dog.  -- Hunting ground, a region or district abounding in game; esp. (pl.), the regions roamed over by the North American Indians in search of game.  -- Hunting horn, a bulge; a horn used in the chase. See Horn, and Bulge.  -- Hunting leopard (Zoöl.), the cheetah.  -- Hunting lodge, a temporary residence for the purpose of hunting.  -- Hunting seat, a hunting lodge. Gray.  -- Hunting shirt, a coarse shirt for hunting, often of leather.  -- Hunting spider (Zoöl.), a spider which hunts its prey, instead of catching it in a web; a wolf spider.  -- Hunting watch. See Hunter, 6. 

HUNTRESS:  A woman who hunts or follows the chase; as, the huntress Diana. Shak. 

HUNTSMANSHIP:  The art or practice of hunting, or the qualification of a hunter. Donne.  HUNT'S-UP Hunt's"-up`, n.  A tune played on the horn very early in the morning to call out the hunters; hence, any arousing sound or call. [Obs.] Shak. Time plays the hunt's-up to thy sleepy head. Drayton. 

HURDEN:  A coarse kind of linen; -- called also harden. [Prov. Eng.] 

HURDLE:  To hedge, cover, make, or inclose with hurdles. Milton. 

HURDLEWORK:  Work after manner of a hurdle. 

HURDS:  The coarse part of flax or hemp; hards.  HURDY-GURDY Hur"dy-gur`dy, n. Etym: [Prob. of imitative origin.]  1. A stringled instrument, lutelike in shape, in which the sound is produced by the friction of a wheel turned by a crank at the end, instead of by a bow, two of the strings being tuned as drones, while two or more, tuned in unison, are modulated by keys.  2. In California, a water wheel with radial buckets, driven by the impact of a jet. 

HURKARU:  In India, a running footman; a messenger. [Written also hurkaroo.] 

HURL:  To twist or turn. "Hurled or crooked feet." [Obs.] Fuller. 

HURL:  A table on which fiber is stirred and mixed by beating with a bowspring. 

HURLBAT:  See Whirlbat. [Obs.] Holland. 

HURLBONE:  A bone near the middle of the buttock of a horse. Crabb. 

HURLER:  One who hurls, or plays at hurling. 

HURLWIND:  A whirlwind. [Obs.] Sandys. 

HURLY:  Noise; confusion; uproar. That, with the hurly, death itself awakes. Shak.  HURLY-BURLY Hur"ly-bur`ly, n. Etym: [Reduplicated fr. OE. hurly confusion: cf. F. hurler to howl, yell, L. ululare; or cf. E. hurry.]  Tumult; bustle; confusion. Shak. All places were filled with tumult and hurly-burly. Knolles. 

HURONIAN:  Of or pertaining to certain non-fossiliferous rocks on the borders of Lake Huron, which are supposed to correspond in time to the latter part of the Archæan age.  HURON-IROQUOUS Hu"ron-Ir`o*quous", n. (Ethnol.)  A linguistic group of warlike North American Indians, belonging to the same stock as the Algonquins, and including several tribes, among which were the Five Nations. They formerly occupied the region about Lakes Erie and Ontario, and the larger part of New York. 

HURONS:  ; sing. Huron. (Ethnol.) A powerful and warlike tribe of North American Indians of the Algonquin stock. They formerly occupied the country between Lakes Huron, Erie, and Ontario, but were nearly exterminated by the Five Nations about 1650. 

HURR:  To make a rolling or burring sound. [Obs.] R is the dog's letter, and hurreth in the sound. B. Jonson.  HURRAH; HURRA Hur*rah" Hur*ra", interj. Etym: [Cf. G., Dan., & Sw. hurra. Cf. Huzza.]  A word used as a shout of joy, triumph, applause, encouragement, or welcome. Hurrah! hurrah! for Ivry and Henry of Navarre. Macaulay. 

HURRAH:  A cheer; a shout of joy, etc. Hurrah's nest, state of utmost confusion. [Colloq. U.S.] A perfect hurrah's nest in our kitchen. Mrs. Stowe. 

HURRAH:  To utter hurrahs; to huzza. 

HURRAH:  To salute, or applaud, with hurrahs. 

HURRICANE:  A violent storm, characterized by extreme fury and sudden changes of the wind, and generally accompanied by rain, thunder, and lightning; -- especially prevalent in the East and West Indies. Also used figuratively. Like the smoke in a hurricane whirl'd. Tennyson. Each guilty thought to me is A dreadful hurricane. Massinger. Hurricane bird (Zoöl.), the frigate bird.  -- Hurricane deck. (Naut.) See under Deck. 

HURRICANO:  A waterspout; a hurricane. [Obs.] Drayton. "You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout." Shak. 

HURRIER:  One who hurries or urges. 

HURRIES:  A staith or framework from which coal is discharged from cars into vessels. 

HURRY:  To move or act with haste; to proceed with celerity or precipitation; as, let us hurry. To hurry up, to make haste. [Colloq.] 

HURRY:  The act of hurrying in motion or business; pressure; urgency; bustle; confusion. Ambition raises a tumult in the soul, it inflames the mind, and puts into a violent hurry of thought. Addison.  Syn.  -- Haste; speed; dispatch. See Haste. 

HURRYINGLY:  In a hurrying manner.  HURRY-SKURRY Hur"ry-skur`ry, adv. Etym: [An imitative word; cf. Sw. skorra to rattle, snarl, E. scurry.]  Confusedly; in a bustle. [Obs.] Gray. 

HURST:  A wood or grove; -- a word used in the composition of many names, as in Hazlehurst. 

HURTER:  One who hurts or does harm. I shall not be a hurter, if no helper. Beau. & Fl. 

HURTER:  A butting piece; a strengthening piece, esp.: (Mil.) A piece of wood at the lower end of a platform, designed to prevent the wheels of gun carriages from injuring the parapet. 

HURTFUL:  Tending to impair or damage; injurious; mischievous; occasioning loss or injury; as, hurtful words or conduct.  Syn.  -- Pernicious; harmful; baneful; prejudicial; detrimental; disadvantageous; mischievous; injurious; noxious; unwholesome; destructive.  -- Hurt"ful*ly, adv.  -- Hurt"ful*ness, n. 

HURTLEBERRY:  See Whortleberry. 

HURTLESS:  Doing no injury; harmless; also, unhurt; without injury or harm. Gentle dame so hurtless and so true. Spenser. -- Hurt"less*ly, adv.  -- Hurt"less*ness, n. 

HUSBANDABLE:  Capable of being husbanded, or managed with economy. Sherwood. 

HUSBANDAGE:  The commission or compensation allowed to a ship's husband. 

HUSBANDLESS:  Destitute of a husband. Shak. 

HUSBANDLY:  Frugal; thrifty. [R.] Tusser. 

HUSH:  To become or to keep still or quiet; to become silent; -- esp. used in the imperative, as an exclamation; be still; be silent or quiet; make no noise. Hush, idle words, and thoughts of ill. Keble. But all these strangers' presence every one did hush. Spenser. 

HUSH:  Stillness; silence; quiet. [R.] "It is the hush of night." Byron. Hush money, money paid to secure silence, or to prevent the disclosure of facts. Swift. 

HUSH:  Silent; quiet. "Hush as death." Shak. 

HUSHER:  An usher. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HUSHING:  The process of washing ore, or of uncovering mineral veins, by a heavy discharge of water from a reservoir; flushing; -- also called booming. 

HUSK:  To strip off the external covering or envelope of; as, to husk Indian corn. 

HUSKILY:  In a husky manner; dryly. 

HUSKY:  Abounding with husks; consisting of husks. Dryden. 

HUSKY:  Rough in tone; harsh; hoarse; raucous; as, a husky voice. 

HUSSAR:  Originally, one of the national cavalry of Hungary and Croatia; now, one of the light cavalry of European armies. 

HUSSITE:  A follower of John Huss, the Bohemian reformer, who was adjudged a heretic and burnt alive in 1415. 

HUSSY:  A case or bag. See Housewife, 2. 

HUSTLE:  To shake together in confusion; to push, jostle, or crowd rudely; to handle roughly; as, to hustle a person out of a room. Macaulay. 

HUSTLE:  To push or crows; to force one's way; to move hustily and with confusion; a hurry. Leaving the king, who had hustled along the floor with his dress worfully arrayed. Sir W. Scott. 

HUSWIFE:  A case for sewing materials. See Housewife. Cowper. 

HUSWIFE:  To manage with frugality; -- said of a woman. Dryden. 

HUSWIFELY:  Like a huswife; capable; economical; prudent.  -- adv.  In a huswifely manner. 

HUSWIFERY:  The business of a housewife; female domestic economy and skill. Tusser. 

HUT:  A small house, hivel, or cabin; a mean lodge or dwelling; a slightly built or temporary structure. Death comes on with equal footsteps To the hall and hut. Bp. Coxe. 

HUTCH:  To place in huts; to live in huts; as, to hut troops in winter quarters. The troops hutted among the heights of Morristown. W. Irving. 

HUTCH:  The case of a flour bolt.  4. (Mining) (a) A car on low wheels, in which coal is drawn in the mine and hoisted out of the pit. (b) A jig for washing ore. Bolting hutch, Booby hutch, etc. See under Bolting, etc. 

HUTCH:  To wash (ore) in a box or jig. 

HUTCHUNSONIAN:  A follower of John Hutchinson of Yorkshire, England, who believed that the Hebrew Scriptures contained a complete system of natural science and of theology. 

HUTTONIAN:  Relating to what is now called the Plutonic theory of the earth, first advanced by Dr. James Hutton. Lyell. 

HUTTONING:  Forcible manipulation of a dislocated, stiff, or painful joint. 

HUXTER:  See Huckster. 

HUYGHENIAN:  Pertaining to, or invented by, Christian Huyghens, a Dutch astronomer of the seventeenth century; as, the Huyghenian telescope. Huyghenian eyepieceSee under Eyepiece. 

HUZZ:  To buzz; to murmur. [Obs.] Huzzing and burring in the preacher's ear. Latimer. 

HUZZA:  A word used as a shout of joy, exultation, approbation, or encouragement. 

HUZZA:  A shout of huzza; a cheer; a hurrah. They made a great huzza or shout. Evelyn. 

HUZZA:  To shout huzza; to cheer. 

HUZZA:  To receive or attend with huzzas. He was huzzaed into the court. Addison. 

HY:  High. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HYACINE:  A hyacinth. [Obs.] Spenser. 

HYACINTH:  A red variety of zircon, sometimes used as a gem. See Zircon. Hyacinth bean (Bot.), a climbing leguminous plant (Dolichos Lablab), related to the true bean. It has dark purple flowers and fruit. 

HYACINTHIAN:  Hyacinthine. [R.] 

HYACINTHINE:  Belonging to the hyacinth; resemblingthe hyacinth; in color like the hyacinth. Milton. His curling locks like hyacinthine flowers. Cowper. The hyacinthine boy, for whom Morn well might break and April bloom. Emerson.  HYADES; HYADS Hy"a*des, Hy"ads, n.pl. Etym: [L. Hyades, Gr. (Astron.)  A cluster of five stars in the face of the constellation Taurus, supposed by the ancients to indicate the coming of rainy weather when they rose with the sun. Thro' scudding drifts the rainy Hyaned Vext the dim sea. Tennyson. 

HYAENA:  Same as Hyena. 

HYALEA:  A pteroid of the genus Cavolina. See Pteropoda, and Illustration in Appendix. 

HYALESCENCE:  The process of becoming, or the state of being, transparent like glass. 

HYALINE:  Glassy; resembling glass; consisting of glass; transparent, like crystal. "Hyaline spaces." Carpenter. 

HYALINE:  The pellucid substance, present in cells in process of development, from which, according to some embryologists, the cell nucleous originates.  3. (Physiol. Chem.)  The main constituent of the walls of hydatid cysts; a nitrogenous body, which, by decomposition, yields a dextrogyrate sugar, susceptible of alcoholic fermentation. Gamgee. 

HYALITE:  A pellucid variety of opal in globules looking like colorless gum or resin; -- called also Müller's glass. 

HYALOGRAPH:  An instrument for tracing designs on glass. 

HYALOGRAPHY:  Art of writing or engraving on glass. 

HYALOID:  Resembling glass; vitriform; transparent; hyaline; as, the hyaloid membrane, a very delicate membrane inclosing the vitreous humor of the eye. 

HYALONEMA:  A genus of hexactinelline sponges, having a long stem composed of very long, slender, transparent, siliceous fibres twisted together like the strands of a color. The stem of the Japanese species (H. Sieboldii), called glass-rope, has long been in use as an ornament. See Glass-rope. 

HYALOPHANE:  A species of the feldspar group containing barium. See Feldspar. 

HYALOSPONGIA:  An order of vitreous sponges, having glassy six-rayed, siliceous spicules; -- called also Hexactinellinæ. 

HYALOTYPE:  A photographic picture copied from the negative on glass; a photographic transparency. R. Hunt.  HYBERNACLE; HYBERNATE; HYBERNATION Hy*ber"na*cle, Hy"ber*nate, Hy`ber*na"tion.  See Hibernacle, Hibernate, Hibernation. 

HYBLAEAN:  Pertaining to Hybla, an ancient town of Sicily, famous for its bees. 

HYBODONT:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an extinct genus of sharks (Hybodus), especially in the form of the teeth, which consist of a principal median cone with smaller lateral ones. 

HYBODUS:  An extinct genus of sharks having conical, compressed teeth. 

HYBRID:  The offspring of the union of two distinct species; an animal or plant produced from the mixture of two species. See Mongrel. 

HYBRID:  Produced from the mixture of two species; as, plants of hybrid nature. 

HYBRIDISM:  The state or quality of being hybrid. 

HYBRIDIST:  One who hybridizes. 

HYBRIDITY:  Hybridism. 

HYBRIDIZABLE:  Capable of forming a hybrid, or of being subjected to a hybridizing process; capable of producing a hybrid by union with another species or stock. Hybridizable genera are rarer than is generally supposed, even in gardens where they are so often operated upon, under circumstances most favorable to the production of hybrids. J. D. Hooker. 

HYBRIDIZATION:  The act of hybridizing, or the state of being hybridized. 

HYBRIDIZE:  To render hybrid; to produce by mixture of stocks. 

HYBRIDIZER:  One who hybridizes. 

HYBRIDOUS:  Same as Hybrid. 

HYDAGE:  A land tax. See Hidage. 

HYDANTOIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, hydantoin. See Glycoluric. 

HYDANTOIN:  A derivative of urea, C3H4N2O2, obtained from allantion, as a white, crystalline substance, with a sweetish taste; -- called also glycolyl urea. 

HYDATID:  A membranous sac or bladder filled with a pellucid fluid, found in various parts of the bodies of animals, but unconnected with the tissues. It is usually formed by parasitic worms, esp. by larval tapeworms, as Echinococcus and Coenurus. See these words in the Vocabulary. Hydatid of Morgagni (Anat.), one of the small pedunculated bodies found between the testicle and the head of the epididymis, and supposed to be a remnant of the Müllerian duct. 

HYDATIFORM:  Resembling a hydatid. 

HYDATOID:  Resembling water; watery; aqueous; hyaloid.  HYDR- Hy"dr-  . See under Hydro-. 

HYDRA:  A serpent or monster in the lake or marsh of Lerna, in the Peloponnesus, represented as having many heads, one of which, when cut off, was immediately succeeded by two others, unless the wound was cauterized. It was slain by Hercules. Hence, a terrible monster. Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras dire. Milton.  2. Hence: A multifarious evil, or an evil having many sources; not to be overcome by a single effort.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any small fresh-water hydroid of the genus Hydra, usually found attached to sticks, stones, etc., by a basal sucker.  Note: The body is a simple tube, having a mouth at one extremity, surrounded by a circle of tentacles with which it captures its prey. Young hydras bud out from the sides of the older ones, but soon become detached and are then like their parent. Hydras are remarkable for their power of repairing injuries; for if the body be divided in pieces, each piece will grow into a complete hydra, to which fact the name alludes. The zooids or hydranths of marine hydroids are sometimes called hydras.  4. (Astron.)  A southern constellation of great length lying southerly from Cancer, Leo, and Virgo. 

HYDRACHNID:  An aquatic mite of the genus Hydrachna. The hydrachids, while young, are parasitic on fresh-water mussels. 

HYDRACID:  An acid containing hydrogen; -- sometimes applied to distinguish acids like hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, and the like, which contain no oxygen, from the oxygen acids or oxacids. See Acid. 

HYDRACRYLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an isomeric variety of lastic acid that breaks down into acrylic acid and water. 

HYDRACTINIAN:  Any species or marine hydroids, of the genus Hydractinia and allied genera. These hydroids form, by their rootstalks, a firm, chitinous coating on shells and stones, and esp. on spiral shells occupied by hermit crabs. See Illust. of Athecata. 

HYDRAEMIA:  An abnormally watery state of the blood; anæmia. 

HYDRAGOGUE:  Causing a discharge of water; expelling serum effused into any part of the body, as in dropsy.  -- n.  A hydragogue medicine, usually a cathartic or diuretic. 

HYDRAMIDE:  One of a group of crystalline bodies produced by the action of ammonia on certain aldehydes. 

HYDRAMINE:  One of a series of artificial, organic bases, usually produced as thick viscous liquids by the action of ammonia on ethylene oxide. They have the properties both of alcohol and amines. 

HYDRANGEA:  A genus of shrubby plants bearing opposite leaves and large heads of showy flowers, white, or of various colors. H. hortensis, the common garden species, is a native of China or Japan. 

HYDRANT:  A discharge pipe with a valve and spout at which water may be drawn from the mains of waterworks; a water plug. 

HYDRANTH:  One of the nutritive zooids of a hydroid colony. Also applied to the proboscis or manubrium of a hydroid medusa. See Illust. of Hydroidea. 

HYDRARGOCHLORIDE:  A compound of the bichloride of mercury with another chloride. [Obs.] 

HYDRARGYRATE:  Of or pertaining to mercury; containing, or impregnated with, mercury. [R.] 

HYDRARGYRISM:  A diseased condition produced by poisoning with hydrargyrum, or mercury; mercurialism. 

HYDRARGYRUM:  Quicksilver; mercury. 

HYDRARTHROSIS:  An effusion of watery liquid into the cavity of a joint. 

HYDRASTINE:  An alkaloid, found in the rootstock of the golden seal (Hydrastis Canadensis), and extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance. It is used as a tonic and febrifuge.  HYDRA-TAINTED Hy"dra-taint`ed, a.  Dipped in the gall of the fabulous hydra; poisonous; deadly. Cowper. 

HYDRATE:  To form into a hydrate; to combine with water. 

HYDRATED:  Formed into a hydrate; combined with water. 

HYDRATION:  The act of becoming, or state of being, a hydrate. Water of hydration (Chem.), water chemically combined with some substance to form a hydrate; -- distinguished from water of crystallization. 

HYDRAULIC:  Of or pertaining to hydraulics, or to fluids in motion; conveying, or acting by, water; as, an hydraulic clock, crane, or dock. Hydraulic accumulator, an accumulator for hydraulic machinery of any kind. See Accumulator, 2.  -- Hydraulic brake, a cataract. See Cataract, 3.  -- Hydraulic cement, a cement or mortar made of hydraulic lime, which will harden under water.  -- Hydraulic elevator, a lift operated by the weight or pressure of water.  -- Hydraulic jack. See under Jack.  -- Hydraulic lime, quicklime obtained from hydraulic limestone, and used for cementing under water, etc.  -- Hydraulic limestone, a limestone which contains some clay, and which yields a quicklime that will set, or form a firm, strong mass, under water.  -- Hydraulic main (Gas Works), a horizontal pipe containing water at the bottom into which the ends of the pipes from the retorts dip, for passing the gas through water in order to remove ammonia.  -- Hydraulic mining, a system of mining in which the force of a jet of water is used to wash down a bank of gold-bearing gravel or earth. [Pacific Coast] -- Hydraulic press, a hydrostatic press. See under Hydrostatic.  -- Hydraulic propeller, a device for propelling ships by means of a stream of water ejected under water rearward from the ship.  -- Hydraulic ram, a machine for raising water by means of the energy of the moving water of which a portion is to be raised. When the rush of water through the main pipe d shuts the valve at a, the momentum of the current thus suddenly checked forces part of it into the air chamber b, and up the pipe c, its return being prevented by a valve at the entrance to the air chamber, while the dropping of the valve a by its own weight allows another rush through the main pipe, and so on alternately.  -- Hydraulic valve. (Mach.) (a) A valve for regulating the distribution of water in the cylinders of hydraulic elevators, cranes, etc. (b) (Gas Works) An inverted cup with a partition dipping into water, for opening or closing communication between two gas mains, the open ends of which protrude about the water. 

HYDRAULICAL:  Hydraulic. 

HYDRAULICON:  An ancient musical instrument played by the action of water; a water organ. [Written also hydraulis.] 

HYDRAULICS:  That branch of science, or of engineering, which treats of fluids in motion, especially of water, its action in rivers and canals, the works and machinery for conducting or raising it, its use as a prime mover, and the like.  Note: As a science, hydraulics includes hydrodynamics, or the principles of mechanics applicable to the motion of water; as a branch of engineering, it consists in the practical application of the mechanics of fluids to the control and management of water with reference to the wants of man, including canals, waterworks, hydraulic machines, pumps, water wheels, etc. Some writers treat hydraulics and hydrostatics as subdivisions of hydrodynamics. 

HYDRAZINE:  Any one of a series of nitrogenous bases, resembling the amines and produced by the reduction of certain nitroso and diazo compounds; as, methyl hydrazine, phenyl hydrazine, etc. They are derivatives of hydrazine proper, H2N.NH2, which is a doubled amido group, recently (1887) isolated as a stable, colorless gas, with a peculiar, irritating odor. As a base it forms distinct salts. Called also diamide, amidogen, (or more properly diamidogen), etc. 

HYDRENCEPHSLOID:  Same as Hydrocephaloid. 

HYDRIA:  A water jar; esp., one with a large rounded body, a small neck, and three handles. Some of the most beautiful Greek vases are of this form. 

HYDRIAD:  A water nymph. 

HYDRIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen; as, hydric oxide. Hydric dioxide. (Chem.) See Hydrogen dioxide, under Hydrogen.  -- Hydric oxide (Chem.), water.  -- Hydric sulphate (Chem.), hydrogen sulphate or sulphuric acid. 

HYDRIDE:  A compound of the binary type, in which hydrogen is united with some other element. 

HYDRIFORM:  Having the form or structure of a hydra. 

HYDRINA:  The group of hydroids to which the fresh-water hydras belong. 

HYDRIODATE:  Same as Hydriodide. 

HYDRIODIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, hydrogen and iodine; -- said of an acid produced by the combination of these elements. Hydriodic acid (Chem.), a pungent, colorless gas, HI, usually prepared as a solution in water. It is strong reducing agent. Called also hydrogen iodine. 

HYDRIODIDE:  A compound of hydriodic acid with a base; -- distinguished from an iodide, in which only the iodine combines with the base.  HYDRO-; HYDR- Hy"dro-, Hy"dr-.  1. A combining form from Gr. Hydra).  2. (Chem.)  A combining form of hydrogen, indicating hydrogen as an ingredient, as hydrochloric; or a reduction product obtained by hydrogen, as hydroquinone.  HYDRO-AEROPLANE Hy"dro-a"ër*o*plane`. (Aëronautics)  An aëroplane with a boatlike or other understructure that enables it to travel on, or to rise from the surface of, a body of water by its own motive power. 

HYDROBAROMETER:  An instrument for determining the depth of the sea water by its pressure. 

HYDROBILIRUBIN:  A body formed from bilirubin, identical with urobilin. 

HYDROBIPLANE:  A hydro-aëroplane having two supporting planes. 

HYDROBRANCHIATA:  An extensive artificial division of gastropod mollusks, including those that breathe by gills, as contrasted with the Pulmonifera.  -- Hy`dro*bran"chi*ate, a. 

HYDROBROMATE:  Same as Hydrobromide. 

HYDROBROMIC:  Composed of hydrogen and bromine; as, hydrobromic acid. Hydrobromic acid (Chem.), a colorless, pungent, corrosive gas, HBr, usually collected as a solution in water. It resembles hydrochloric acid, but is weaker and less stable. Called also hydrogen bromide. 

HYDROBROMIDE:  A compound of hydrobromic acid with a base; -- distinguished from a bromide, in which only the bromine unites with the base. 

HYDROCARBON:  A compound containing only hydrogen and carbon, as methane, benzene, etc.; also, by extension, any of their derivatives. Hydrocarbon burner, furnace, stove, a burner, furnace, or stove with which liquid fuel, as petroleum, is used. 

HYDROCARBONACEOUS:  Of the nature, or containing, hydrocarbons. 

HYDROCARBOSTYRIL:  A white, crystalline, nitrogenous hydrocarbon, C9H9NO, obtained from certain derivatives of cinnamic acid and closely related to quinoline and carbostyril. 

HYDROCARBURET:  Carbureted hydrogen; also, a hydrocarbon. [Obs.] 

HYDROCAULUS:  The hollow stem of a hydroid, either simple or branched. See Illust. of Gymnoblastea and Hydroidea. 

HYDROCELE:  A collection of serous fluid in the areolar texture of the scrotum or in the coverings, especially in the serous sac, investing the testicle or the spermatic cord; dropsy of the testicle. 

HYDROCEPHALIC:  Relating to, or connected with, hydrocephalus, or dropsy of the brain. 

HYDROCEPHALOID:  Resembling hydrocephalus. Hydrocephaloid affection (Med.), the group of symptoms which follow exhausting diarrhea in young children, resembling those of acute hydrocephalus, or tubercular meningitis. 

HYDROCEPHALOUS:  Having hydrocephalus. "Hydrocephalous offspring." G. Eliot. 

HYDROCEPHALUS:  An accumulation of liquid within the cavity of the cranium, especially within the ventricles of the brain; dropsy of the brain. It is due usually to tubercular meningitis. When it occurs in infancy, it often enlarges the head enormously. 

HYDROCHLORATE:  Same as Hydrochloride. 

HYDROCHLORIC:  Pertaining to, or compounded of, chlorine and hydrogen gas; as, hydrochloric acid; chlorhydric. Hydrochloric acid (Chem.), hydrogen chloride; a colorless, corrosive gas, HCl, of pungent, suffocating odor. It is made in great quantities in the soda process, by the action of sulphuric acid on common salt. It has a great affinity for water, and the commercial article is a strong solution of the gas in water. It is a typical acid, and is an indispensable agent in commercial and general chemical work. Called also muriatic, and chlorhydric, acid. 

HYDROCHLORIDE:  A compound of hydrochloric acid with a base; -- distinguished from a chloride, where only chlorine unites with the base. 

HYDROCORALLIA:  A division of Hydroidea, including those genera that secrete a stony coral, as Millepora and Stylaster. Two forms of zooids in life project from small pores in the coral and resemble those of other hydroids. See Millepora. 

HYDROCYANATE:  See Hydrocyanide. 

HYDROCYANIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from the combination of, hydrogen and cyanogen. Hydrocyanic acid (Chem.), a colorless, mobile, volatile liquid, HCN, having a characteristic peach-blossom odor. It is one of the most deadly poisons. It is made by the action of sulphuric acid on yellow prussiate of potassium (potassium ferrocyanide), and chemically resembles hydrochloric and hydrobromic acids. Called also prussic acid, hydrogen cyanide, etc. 

HYDROCYANIDE:  A compound of hydrocyanic acid with a base; -- distinguished from a cyanide, in which only the cyanogen so combines.  HYDRODYNAMIC; HYDRODYNAMICAL Hy`dro*dy*nam"ic, Hy`dro*dy*nam"ic*al, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + dynamic, -ical: cf. F. hydrodynamique.]  Pertaining to, or derived from, the dynamical action of water of a liquid; of or pertaining to water power. Hydrodynamic friction, friction produced by the viscosity of a liquid in motion. 

HYDRODYNAMICS:  That branch of the science of mechanics which relates to fluids, or, as usually limited, which treats of the laws of motion and action of nonelastic fluids, whether as investigated mathematically, or by observation and experiment; the principles of dynamics, as applied to water and other fluids.  Note: The word is sometimes used as a general term, including both hydrostatics and hydraulics, together with pneumatics and acoustics. See Hydraulics. 

HYDRODYNAMOMETER:  An instrument to measure the velocity of a liquid current by the force of its impact.  HYDRO-ELECTRIC Hy`dro-e*lec"tric, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + electric.]  Pertaining to, employed in, or produced by, the evolution of electricity by means of a battery in which water or steam is used. Hydro-electric machine (Physics), an apparatus invented by Sir William Armstrong of England for generating electricity by the escape of high-pressure steam from a series of jets connected with a strong boiler, in which the steam is produced.  HYDRO-EXTRACTOR Hy`dro-ex*tract"or, n. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + extractor.]  An apparatus for drying anything, as yarn, cloth, sugar, etc., by centrifugal force; a centrifugal. 

HYDROFERRICYANIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, or obtained from, hydrogen, ferric iron, and cyanogen; as, hydroferricyanic acid. See Ferricyanic. 

HYDROFERROCYANIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, or obtained from, hydrogen, ferrous iron, and cyanogen; as, hydroferrocyanic acid. See Ferrocyanic. 

HYDROFLUATE:  A supposed compound of hydrofluoris acid and a base; a fluoride. [Archaic] 

HYDROFLUORIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen and fluorine; fluohydric; as, hydrofluoric acid. Hydrofluoric acid (Chem.), a colorless, mobile, volatile liquid, HF, very corrosive in its action, and having a strong, pungent, suffocating odor. It is produced by the action of sulphuric acid on fluorite, and is usually collected as a solution in water. It attacks all silicates, as glass or porcelain, is the agent employed in etching glass, and is preserved only in vessels of platinum, lead, caoutchouc, or gutta-percha. 

HYDROFLUOSILICATE:  A salt of hydrofluosilic acid; a silicofluoride. See Silicofluoride. 

HYDROFLUOSILICIC:  Pertaining to, or denoting, a compound consisting of a double fluoride of hydrogen and silicon; silicofluoric. See Silicofluoric. 

HYDROGALVANIC:  Pertaining to, produced by, or consisting of, electricity evolved by the action or use of fluids; as, hydrogalvanic currents. [R.] 

HYDROGEN:  A gaseous element, colorless, tasteless, and odorless, the lightest known substance, being fourteen and a half times lighter than air (hence its use in filling balloons), and over eleven thousand times lighter than water. It is very abundant, being an ingredient of water and of many other substances, especially those of animal or vegetable origin. It may by produced in many ways, but is chiefly obtained by the action of acids (as sulphuric) on metals, as zinc, iron, etc. It is very inflammable, and is an ingredient of coal gas and water gas. It is standard of chemical equivalents or combining weights, and also of valence, being the typical monad. Symbol H. Atomic weight 1.  Note: Although a gas, hydrogen is chemically similar to the metals in its nature, having the properties of a weak base. It is, in all acids, the base which is replaced by metals and basic radicals to form salts. Like all other gases, it is condensed by great cold and pressure to a liquid which freezes and solidifies by its own evaporation. It is absorbed in large quantities by certain metals (esp. palladium), forming alloy-like compounds; hence, in view of quasi-metallic nature, it is sometimes called hydrogenium. It is the typical reducing agent, as opposed to oxidizers, as oxygen, chlorine, etc. Bicarbureted hydrogen, an old name for ethylene.  -- Carbureted hydrogen gas. See under Carbureted.  -- Hydrogen dioxide, a thick, colorless liquid, H2O2, resembling water, but having a bitter, sour taste, produced by the action of acids on barium peroxide. It decomposes into water and oxygen, and is manufactured in large quantities for an oxidizing and bleaching agent. Called also oxygenated water.  -- Hydrogen oxide, a chemical name for water, H -- Hydrogen sulphide, a colorless inflammable gas, H2S, having the characteristic odor of bad eggs, and found in many mineral springs. It is produced by the action of acids on metallic sulphides, and is an important chemical reagent. Called also sulphureted hydrogen. 

HYDROGENATE:  To hydrogenize. 

HYDROGENATION:  The act of combining with hydrogen, or the state of being so combined. 

HYDROGENIDE:  A binary compound containing hydrogen; a hydride. [R.] See Hydride. 

HYDROGENIUM:  Hydrogen; -- called also in view of its supposed metallic nature. Graham. 

HYDROGENIZE:  To combine with hydrogen; to treat with, or subject to the action of, hydrogen; to reduce; -- contrasted with oxidize. 

HYDROGENOUS:  Of or pertaining to hydrogen; containing hydrogen. 

HYDROGNOSY:  A treatise upon, or a history and description of, the water of the earth. 

HYDROGODE:  The negative pole or cathode. [R.] 

HYDROGRAPHER:  One skilled in the hydrography; one who surveys, or draws maps or charts of, the sea, lakes, or other waters, with the adjacent shores; one who describes the sea or other waters. Boyle.  HYDROGRAPHIC; HYDROGRAPHICAL Hy`dro*graph"ic, Hy`dro*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or relating to hydrography. 

HYDROGURET:  A hydride. [Obs.] 

HYDROID:  Related to, or resembling, the hydra; of or pertaining to the Hydroidea.  -- n.  One of the Hydroideas. 

HYDROIDEA:  An extensive order of Hydrozoa or Acalephæ. [Written also Hydroida.]  Note: This order includes the hydras and the free-swimming hydromedusæ, together with a great variety of marine attached hydroids, many of which grow up into large, elegantly branched forms, consisting of a vast number of zooids (hydranths, gonophores, etc.), united by hollow stems. All the zooids of a colony are produced from one primary zooid, by successive buddings. The Siphonophora have also been included in this order by some writers. See Gymnoblastea, Hydromedusa, Gonosome, Gonotheca. 

HYDROKINETIC:  Of or pertaining to the motions of fluids, or the forces which produce or affect such motions; -- opposed to hydrostatic. Sir W. Thomson. 

HYDROLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to hydrology. 

HYDROLOGIST:  One skilled in hydrology. 

HYDROLOGY:  The science of water, its properties, phenomena, and distribution over the earth's surface. 

HYDROLYSIS:  A chemical process involving the addition of the elements of water. 

HYDROLYTIC:  Tending to remove or separate water; eliminating water. Hydrolytic agents, such as sulphuric acid or caustic alkali. Encyc. Brit. Hydrolitic ferment (Physiol. Chem.), a ferment, enzyme, or chemical ferment, which acts only in the presence of water, and which causes the substance acted upon to take up a molecule of water. Thus, diastase of malt, ptyalin of saliva, and boiling dilute sulphuric acid all convert starch by hydration into dextrin and sugar. Nearly all of the digestive ferments are hydrolytic in their action. 

HYDROMAGNESITE:  A hydrous carbonate of magnesia occurring in white, early, amorphous masses. 

HYDROMANCY:  Divination by means of water, -- practiced by the ancients. 

HYDROMANTIC:  Of or pertaining to divination by water. 

HYDROMECHANICS:  That branch of physics which treats of the mechanics of liquids, or of their laws of equilibrium and of motion. 

HYDROMEDUSA:  Any medusa or jellyfish which is produced by budding from a hydroid. They are called also Craspedota, and naked-eyed medusæ.  Note: Such medusæ are the reproductive zooids or gonophores, either male or female, of the hydroid from which they arise, whether they become free or remain attached to the hydroid colony. They in turn produce the eggs from which the hydroids are developed. The name is also applied to other similar medusæ which are not known to bud from a hydroid colony, and even to some which are known to develop directly from the eggs, but which in structure agree essentially with those produced from hydroids. See Hydroidea, and Gymnoblastea. 

HYDROMEL:  A liquor consisting of honey diluted in water, and after fermentation called mead. 

HYDROMELLONIC:  See Cyamellone. 

HYDROMETALLURGICAL:  Of or pertaining to hydrometallurgy; involving the use of liquid reagents in the treatment or reduction of ores.  -- Hy`dro*met`al*lur"gic*al*ly, adv. 

HYDROMETALLURGY:  The art or process of assaying or reducing ores by means of liquid reagents. 

HYDROMETEOR:  A meteor or atmospheric phenomenon dependent upon the vapor of water; -- in the pl., a general term for the whole aqueous phenomena of the atmosphere, as rain, snow, hail, etc. Nichol. 

HYDROMETEOROLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to hydrometeorology, or to rain, clouds, storms, etc. 

HYDROMETEOROLOGY:  That branch of meteorology which relates to, or treats of, water in the atmosphere, or its phenomena, as rain, clouds, snow, hail, storms, etc. 

HYDROMETER:  An instrument for determining the specific gravities of liquids, and thence the strength spirituous liquors, saline solutions, etc.  Note: It is usually made of glass with a graduated stem, and indicates the specific gravity of a liquid by the depth to which it sinks in it, the zero of the scale marking the depth to which it sinks in pure water. Extra weights are sometimes used to adapt the scale to liquids of different densities.  2. An instrument, variously constructed, used for measuring the velocity or discharge of water, as in rivers, from reservoirs, etc., and called by various specific names according to its construction or use, as tachometer, rheometer, hydrometer, pendulum, etc.; a current gauge.  HYDROMETRIC; HYDROMETRICAL Hy`dro*met"ric, Hy`dro*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hydromètrique.]  1. Of or pertaining to an hydrometer, or to the determination of the specific gravity of fluids.  2. Of or pertaining to measurement of the velocity, discharge, etc., of running water.  3. Made by means of an hydrometer; as, hydrometric observations. Hydrometric pendulum, a species of hydrometer consisting of a hollow ball of ivory or metal suspended by a treated from the center of a graduated quadrant, and held in a stream to measure the velocity of the water by the inclination given to the thread; a kind of current gauge. 

HYDROMETROGRAPH:  An instrument for determining and recording the quantity of water discharged from a pipe, orifice, etc., in a given time. 

HYDROMICA:  A variety of potash mica containing water. It is less elastic than ordinary muscovite. Hydromica schist (Min.), a mica schist characterized by the presence of hydromica. It often has a silky luster and almost soapy feel. 

HYDRONEPHROSIS:  An accumulation of urine in the pelvis of the kidney, occasioned by obstruction in the urinary passages. 

HYDROPATH:  A hydropathist.  HYDROPATHIC; HYDROPATHICAL Hy`dro*path"ic, Hy`dro*path"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to hydropathy. 

HYDROPATHIST:  One who practices hydropathy; a water-cure doctor. 

HYDROPATHY:  The water cure; a mode of treating diseases by the copious and frequent use of pure water, both internally and externally. 

HYDROPERITONEUM:  Same as Ascites. 

HYDROPHANE:  A semitranslucent variety of opal that becomes translucent or transparent on immersion in water. 

HYDROPHANOUS:  Made transparent by immersion in water. 

HYDROPHID:  Any sea snake of the genus Hydrophys and allied genera. These snakes are venomous, live upon fishes, and have a flattened tail for swimming. 

HYDROPHLORONE:  A white, crystalline benzene derivative, C8H10O2, obtained by the reduction of phlorone. 

HYDROPHOBIC:  Of or pertaining to hydrophobia; producing or caused by rabies; as, hydrophobic symptoms; the hydrophobic poison. 

HYDROPHOBY:  See Hydrophobia. 

HYDROPHORA:  The Hydroidea. 

HYDROPHORE:  An instrument used for the purpose of obtaining specimens of water from any desired depth, as in a river, a lake, or the ocean. 

HYDROPHYLLIUM:  One of the flat, leaflike, protective zooids, covering other zooids of certain Siphonophora. 

HYDROPHYTE:  An aquatic plant; an alga. 

HYDROPHYTOLOGY:  The branch of botany which treats of water plants.  HYDROPIC; HYDROPICAL Hy*drop"ic, Hy*drop"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hydropicus, Gr. hydropique. See Dropsy.]  Dropsical, or resembling dropsy. Every lust is a kind of hydropic distemper, and the more we drink the more we shall thirst. Tillotson. 

HYDROPICALLY:  In a hydropical manner. 

HYDROPIPER:  A species (Polygonum Hydropiper) of knotweed with acrid foliage; water pepper; smartweed. 

HYDROPLANE:  Of a boat, to plane (see Plane, below). 

HYDROPNEUMATIC:  Pertaining to, or depending upon, both liquid and gaseous substances; as, hydropneumatic apparatus for collecting gases over water or other liquids.  HYDROPNEUMATIC GUN CARRIAGE Hy`dro*pneu*mat"ic gun carriage. (Ordnance)  A disappearing gun carriage in which the recoil is checked by cylinders containing liquid and air, the air when compressed furnishing the power for restoring the gun to the firing position. It is used with some English and European heavy guns. 

HYDROPSY:  Same as Dropsy. 

HYDROPULT:  A machine for throwing water by hand power, as a garden engine, a fire extinguisher, etc. 

HYDROQUINONE:  A white crystalline substance, C6H4(OH)2, obtained by the reduction of quinone. It is a diacid phenol, resembling, and metameric with, pyrocatechin and resorcin. Called also dihydroxy benzene. 

HYDRORHIZA:  The rootstock or decumbent stem by which a hydroid is attached to other objects. See Illust. under Hydroidea. 

HYDROSCOPE:  All the zooids of a hydroid colony collectively, including the nutritive and reproductive zooids, and often other kinds. 

HYDROSORBIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from sorbic acid when this takes up hydrogen; as, hydrosorbic acid. 

HYDROSPHERE:  The aqueous vapor of the entire atmosphere.  2.  (Phys. Geog.) The aqueous envelope of the earth, including the ocean, all lakes, streams, and underground waters, and the aqueous vapor in the atmosphere. 

HYDROSTAT:  A contrivance or apparatus to prevent the explosion of steam boilers.  HYDROSTATIC; HYDROSTATICAL Hy`dro*stat"ic, Hy`dro*stat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Hydro-, 1 + Gr. hydrostatique. See Static.]  Of or relating to hydrostatics; pertaining to, or in accordance with, the principles of the equilibrium of fluids. The first discovery made in hydrostatics since the time of Archimedes is due to Stevinus. Hallam. Hydrostatic balance, a balance for weighing substances in water, for the purpose of ascertaining their specific gravities.  -- Hydrostatic bed, a water bed.  -- Hydrostatic bellows, an apparatus consisting of a water-tight bellowslike case with a long, upright tube, into which water may be poured to illustrate the hydrostatic paradox.  -- Hydrostatic paradox, the proposition in hydrostatics that any quantity of water, however small, may be made to counterbalance any weight, however great; or the law of the equality of pressure of fluids in all directions.  -- Hydrostatic press, a machine in which great force, with slow motion, is communicated to a large plunger by means of water forced into the cylinder in which it moves, by a forcing pump of small diameter, to which the power is applied, the principle involved being the same as in the hydrostatic bellows. Also called hydraulic press, and Bramah press. In the illustration, a is a pump with a small plunger b, which forces the water into the cylinder c, thus driving upward the large plunder d, which performs the reduced work, such as compressing cotton bales, etc. 

HYDROSTATICALLY:  According to hydrostatics, or to hydrostatic principles. Bentley. 

HYDROSTATICIAN:  One who is versed or skilled in hydrostatics. [R.] 

HYDROSTATICS:  The branch of science which relates to the pressure and equilibrium of nonelastic fluids, as water, mercury, etc.; the principles of statics applied to water and other liquids. 

HYDROSULPHATE:  Same as Hydrosulphurent. 

HYDROSULPHIDE:  One of a series of compounds, derived from hydrogen sulphide by the replacement of half its hydrogen by a base or basic radical; as, potassium hydrosulphide, KSH. The hydrosulphides are analogous to the hydrates and include the mercaptans. 

HYDROSULPHITE:  A saline compound of hydrosulphurous acid and a base. [R.] 

HYDROSULPHURET:  A hydrosulphide. [Archaic] 

HYDROSULPHURETED:  Combined with hydrogen sulphide. 

HYDROSULPHURIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, hydrogen and sulphur; as, hydrosulphuricacid, a designation applied to the solution of hydrogen sulphide in water. 

HYDROSULPHUROUS:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the reduction of sulphurous acid. See Hyposulphurous acid, under Hyposulphurous. 

HYDROTELLURATE:  A salt formed by the union of hydrotelluric acid and the base. 

HYDROTELLURIC:  Formed by hydrogen and tellurium; as, hydrotelluric acid, or hydrogen telluride. 

HYDROTHECA:  One of the calicles which, in some Hydroidea (Thecaphora), protect the hydrants. See Illust. of Hydroidea, and Campanularian. 

HYDROTHERAPEUTICS:  A system of treating disease by baths and mineral waters. 

HYDROTHERAPY:  See Hydropathy. 

HYDROTHERMAL:  Of or pertaining to hot water; -- used esp. with reference to the action of heated waters in dissolving, redepositing, and otherwise producing mineral changes within the crust of the globe. 

HYDROTHORAX:  An accumulation of serous fluid in the cavity of the chest. 

HYDROTIC:  Causing a discharge of water or phlegm.  -- n. (Med.)  A hydrotic medicine. 

HYDROTICAL:  Hydrotic. 

HYDROTROPE:  A device for raising water by the direct action of steam; a pulsometer. 

HYDROTROPIC:  Turning or bending towards moisture, as roots. 

HYDROTROPISM:  A tendency towards moisture. 

HYDROUS:  Containing water of hydration or crystallization. 

HYDROXANTHANE:  A persulphocyanate. [Obs.] 

HYDROXANTHIC:  Persulphocyanic. 

HYDROXIDE:  A hydrate; a substance containing hydrogen and oxygen, made by combining water with an oxide, and yielding water by elimination. The hydroxides are regarded as compounds of hydroxyl, united usually with basic element or radical; as, calcium hydroxide ethyl hydroxide.  HYDROXY- Hy*drox"y-. (Chem.)  A combining form, also used adjectively, indicating hydroxyl as an ingredient. Hydroxy acid (Chem.), an organic acid, having (besides the hydroxyl group of the carboxyl radical) an alcoholic hydroxyl group, and thus having the qualities of an alcohol in addition to its acid properties; as, lactic and tartaric acids are hydroxy acids. 

HYDROXYL:  A compound radical, or unsaturated group, HO, consisting of one atom of hydrogen and one of oxygen. It is a characteristic part of the hydrates, the alcohols, the oxygen acids, etc. 

HYDROXYLAMINE:  A nitrogenous, organic base, NH2.OH, resembling ammonia, and produced by a modified reduction of nitric acid. It is usually obtained as a volatile, unstable solution in water. It acts as a strong reducing agent. 

HYDROZOA:  The Acalephæ; one of the classes of coelenterates, including the Hydroidea, Discophora, and Siphonophora. 

HYDROZOAL:  Of or pertaining to the Hydrozoa.  HYDROZOON; HYDROZOOEN Hy`dro*zo"ön, n.; pl. L. Hydrozoa, E. Hydrozoöns. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)  One of the Hydrozoa. 

HYDRURET:  A binary compound of hydrogen; a hydride. [Obs.] 

HYDRUS:  A constellation of the southern hemisphere, near the south pole. 

HYE:  See Hie. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HYEMAL:  Belonging to winter; done in winter. Sir T. Browne. 

HYEMATE:  To pass the winter. [Obs. & R.] 

HYEN:  A hyena. [Obs.] Shak. 

HYENA:  Any carnivorous mammal of the family Hyænidæ, of which three living species are known. They are large and strong, but cowardly. They feed chiefly on carrion, and are nocturnal in their habits. [Written also hyæna.]  Note: The striped hyena (Hyæna striata) inhabits Southern Asia and a large part of Africa. The brown hyena (H. brunnea), and the spotted hyena (Crocuta maculata), are found in Southern Africa. The extinct cave hyena (H. spelæa) inhabited England and France. Cave hyena. See under Cave.  -- Hyena dog (Zoöl.), a South African canine animal (Lycaon venaticus), which hunts in packs, chiefly at night. It is smaller than the common wolf, with very large, erect ears, and a bushy tail. Its color is reddish or yellowish brown, blotched with black and white. Called also hunting dog. 

HYETAL:  Of or pertaining to rain; descriptive of the distribution of rain, or of rainy regions. 

HYETOGRAPH:  A chart or graphic representation of the average distribution of rain over the surface of the earth. 

HYETOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to to hyetography. 

HYETOGRAPHY:  The branch of physical science which treats of the geographical distribution of rain. 

HYETOLOGY:  The science which treats of the precipitation of rain, snow, etc. -- Hy`e*to*log"ic*al, a. 

HYGEIA:  The goddess of health, daughter of Esculapius. 

HYGEIAN:  Relating to Hygeia, the goddess of health; of or pertaining to health, or its preservation. 

HYGEIST:  One skilled in hygiena; a hygienist. 

HYGIEIST:  A hygienist. 

HYGIENE:  That department of sanitary science which treats of the preservation of health, esp. of households and communities; a system of principles or rules designated for the promotion of health. 

HYGIENIC:  Of or pertaining to health or hygiene; sanitary. 

HYGIENICS:  The science of health; hygiene. 

HYGIENISM:  Hygiene. 

HYGIENIST:  One versed in hygiene. 

HYGIOLOGY:  A treatise on, or the science of, the preservation of health. [R.] 

HYGRINE:  An alkaloid associated with cocaine in coca leaves (Erythroxylon coca), and extracted as a thick, yellow oil, having a pungent taste and odor. 

HYGRODEIK:  A form of hygrometer having wet and dry bulb thermometers, with an adjustable index showing directly the percentage of moisture in the air, etc. 

HYGROGRAPH:  An instrument for recording automatically the variations of the humidity of the atmosphere. 

HYGROLOGY:  The science which treats of the fluids of the body. 

HYGROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the degree of moisture of the atmosphere. Daniell's hygrometer, a form of hygrometer consisting of a bent glass tube terminating in two bulbs, the one covered with muslin, the other of black glass, and containing ether and a thermometer. Ether being poured on the muslin, the black ball, cooled by the evaporation of the ether within, is soon covered with dew; at this moment, the inclosed thermometer gives the dew-point, and this, compared with the reading of one in the air, determines the humidity.  HYGROMETRIC; HYGROMETRICAL Hy`gro*met"ric, Hy`gro*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hygrométrique.]  1. Of or pertaining to hygrometry; made with, or according to, the hygrometer; as, hygrometric observations.  2. Readily absorbing and retaining moisture; as, hygrometric substances, like potash. 

HYGROMETRY:  That branch of physics which relates to the determination of the humidity of bodies, particularly of the atmosphere, with the theory and use of the instruments constructed for this purpose. 

HYGROPHANOUS:  Having such a structure as to be diaphanous when moist, and opaque when dry. 

HYGROPHTHALMIC:  Serving to moisten the eye; -- sometimes applied to the lachrymal ducts. 

HYGROPLASM:  The fluid portion of the cell protoplasm, in opposition to stereoplasm, the solid or insoluble portion. The latter is supposed to be partly nutritive and partly composed of idioplasm. 

HYGROSCOPE:  An instrument which shows whether there is more or less moisture in the atmosphere, without indicating its amount. 

HYGROSCOPICITY:  The property possessed by vegetable tissues of absorbing or discharging moisture according to circumstances. 

HYGROSTATICS:  The science or art of comparing or measuring degrees of moisture. Evelyn. 

HYKE:  See Haik, and Huke. 

HYKSOS:  A dynasty of Egyptian kings, often called the Shepherd kings, of foreign origin, who, according to the narrative of Manetho, ruled for about 500 years, forming the XVth and XVIth dynasties. It is now considered that the XVIth is merely a double of the XVth dynasty, and that the total period of the six Hyksos kings was little more than 100 years. It is supposed that they were Asiatic Semites.  HYLAEOSAUR; HYLAEOSAURUS Hy"læ*o*saur`, Hy`læ*o*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL. hylaeosaurus, fr. Gr. (Paleon.)  A large Wealden dinosaur from the Tilgate Forest, England. It was about twenty feet long, protected by bony plates in the skin, and armed with spines. 

HYLARCHICAL:  Presiding over matter. [Obs.] Hallywell. 

HYLEOSAUR:  Same as Hylæosaur. 

HYLIC:  Of or pertaining to matter; material; corporeal; as, hylic influences. 

HYLICIST:  A philosopher who treats chiefly of matter; one who adopts or teaches hylism. 

HYLISM:  A theory which regards matter as the original principle of evil. 

HYLOBATE:  Any species of the genus Hylobates; a gibbon, or long-armed ape. See Gibbon. 

HYLODES:  The piping frog (Hyla Pickeringii), a small American tree frog, which in early spring, while breeding in swamps and ditches, sings with high, shrill, but musical, notes. 

HYLOISM:  Same as Hylotheism. 

HYLOIST:  Same as Hylotheist. 

HYLOPATHISM:  The doctrine that matter is sentient. Krauth-Fleming. 

HYLOPATHIST:  One who believes in hylopathism. 

HYLOPHAGOUS:  Eating green shoots, as certain insects do. 

HYLOTHEISM:  The doctrine of belief that matter is God, or that there is no God except matter and the universe; pantheism. See Materialism. 

HYLOTHEIST:  One who believes in hylotheism. 

HYLOZOIC:  Of or pertaining to hylozoism. 

HYLOZOISM:  The doctrine that matter possesses a species of life and sensation, or that matter and life are inseparable. [R.] Cudworth. 

HYLOZOIST:  A believer in hylozoism. A. Tucker. 

HYMAR:  The wild ass of Persia. 

HYMEN:  A fold of muscous membrane often found at the orifice of the vagina; the vaginal membrane. 

HYMEN:  A fabulous deity; according to some, the son of Apollo and Urania, according to others, of Bacchus and Venus. He was the god of marriage, and presided over nuptial solemnities. Till Hymen brought his love-delighted hour, There dwelt no joy in Eden's rosy bower. Campbell.  2. Marriage; union as if by marriage. Hymen of element and race. Emerson.  HYMENEAL; HYMENEAN Hy`me*ne"al, Hy`me*ne"an, a. Etym: [L. hymeneius, a., also Hymenaeus, n., Hymen, Gr. hyménéal, hyménéen.]  Of or pertaining to marriage; as, hymeneal rites. Pope.  HYMENEAL; HYMENEAN Hy`me*ne"al, Hy`me*ne"an, n.  A marriage song. Milton. 

HYMENIUM:  The spore-bearing surface of certain fungi, as that on the gills of a mushroom. 

HYMENOGENY:  The production of artificial membranes by contact of two fluids, as albumin and fat, by which the globules of the latter are surrounded by a thin film of the former. 

HYMENOMYCETES:  One of the great divisions of fungi, containing those species in which the hymenium is completely exposed. M. J. Berkley. 

HYMENOPHORE:  That part of a fungus which is covered with the hymenium. 

HYMENOPTER:  One of the Hymenoptera. 

HYMENOPTERA:  An extensive order of insects, including the bees, ants, ichneumons, sawflies, etc.  Note: They have four membranous wings, with few reticulations, and usually with a thickened, dark spot on the front edge of the anterior wings. In most of the species, the tongue, or lingua, is converted into an organ for sucking honey, or other liquid food, and the mandibles are adapted for biting or cutting. In one large division (Aculeata), including the bees, wasps, and ants, the females and workers usually have a sting, which is only a modified ovipositor.  HYMENOPTERAL; HYMENOPTEROUS Hy`me*nop"ter*al, Hy`me*nop"ter*ous, a. (Zoöl.)  Like, or characteristic of, the Hymenoptera; pertaining to the Hymenoptera. 

HYMENOPTERAN:  One of the Hymenoptera. 

HYMN:  An ode or song of praise or adoration; especially, a religious ode, a sacred lyric; a song of praise or thankgiving intended to be used in religious service; as, the Homeric hymns; Watts' hymns. Admonishing one another in psalms and hymns. Col. iii. 16. Where angels first should practice hymns, and string Their tuneful harps. Dryden. Hymn book, a book containing a collection of hymns, as for use in churches; a hymnal. 

HYMN:  To praise in song; to worship or extol by singing hymns; to sing. To hymn the bright of the Lord. Keble. Their praise is hymned by loftier harps than mine. Byron. 

HYMN:  To sing in praise or adoration. Milton. 

HYMNAL:  A collection of hymns; a hymn book. 

HYMNIC:  Relating to hymns, or sacred lyrics. Donne. 

HYMNING:  Praising with hymns; singing. "The hymning choir." G. West. 

HYMNING:  The singing of hymns. Milton. 

HYMNIST:  A writer of hymns. 

HYMNODY:  Hymns, considered collectively; hymnology. 

HYMNOGRAPHY:  The art or act of composing hymns. 

HYMNOLOGIST:  A composer or compiler of hymns; one versed in hymnology. Busby. 

HYMPNE:  A hymn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

HYNDRESTE:  See Hinderest. [Obs.] 

HYNE:  A servant. See Hine. [Obs.] Chaucer.  HYO- Hy"o-. Etym: [See Hyod.]  A prexif used in anatomy, and generally denoting connection with the hyoid bone or arch; as, hyoglossal, hyomandibular, hyomental, etc. 

HYOGANOIDEI:  A division of ganoid fishes, including the gar pikes and bowfins.  -- Hy`o*ga"noid, a. 

HYOGLOSSUS:  A flat muscle on either side of the tongue, connecting it with the hyoid bone. 

HYOID:  Of or pertaining to the bony or cartilaginous arch which supports the tongue. Sometimes applied to the tongue itself. Hyoid arch (Anat.), the arch of cartilaginous or bony segments, which connects the base of the tongue with either side of the skull.  -- Hyoid bone (Anat.), the bone in the base of the tongue, the middle part of the hyoid arch. 

HYOID:  The hyoid bone.  HYOIDEAL; HYOIDEAN Hy*oid"e*al, Hy*oid"e*an, a.  Same as Hyoid, a. 

HYOMANDIBULAR:  Pertaining both to the hyoidean arch and the mandible or lower jaw; as, the hyomandibular bone or cartilage, a segment of the hyoid arch which connects the lower jaw with the skull in fishes.  -- n.  The hyomandibular bone or cartilage. 

HYOMENTAL:  Between the hyoid bone and the lower jaw, pertaining to them; suprahyoid; submaxillary; as, the hyomental region of the front of the neck. 

HYOPASTRON:  The second lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also hyosternum. 

HYOSCINE:  An alkaloid found with hyoscyamine (with which it is also isomeric) in henbane, and extracted as a white, amorphous, semisolid substance. 

HYOSCYAMINE:  An alkaloid found in henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), and regarded as its active principle. It is also found with other alkaloids in the thorn apple and deadly nightshade. It is extracted as a white crystalline substance, with a sharp, offensive taste. Hyoscyamine is isomeric with atropine, is very poisonous, and is used as a medicine for neuralgia, like belladonna. Called also hyoscyamia, duboisine, etc. 

HYOSCYAMUS:  A genus of poisonous plants of the Nightshade family; henbane.  2. (Med.)  The leaves of the black henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), used in neuralgic and pectorial troubles. 

HYOSTERNUM:  See Hyoplastron. 

HYOSTYLIC:  Having the mandible suspended by the hyomandibular, or upper part of the hyoid arch, as in fishes, instead of directly articulated with the skull as in mammals; -- said of the skull. 

HYP:  An abbreviation of hypochonaria; -- usually in plural. [Colloq.] Heaven send thou hast not got the hyps. Swift. 

HYP:  To make melancholy. [Colloq.] W. Irving.  HYPAETHRAL; HYPETHRAL Hy*pæ"thral, Hy*pe"thral, a. Etym: [L. hypaethrus in the open air, uncovered, Gr. (Arch.)  Exposed to the air; wanting a roof; -- applied to a building or part of a building. Gwilt. 

HYPALLAGE:  A figure consisting of a transference of attributes from their proper subjects to other. Thus Virgil says, "dare classibus austros," to give the winds to the fleets, instead of dare classibus austris, to give the fleets to the winds. The hypallage, of which Virgil is fonder than any other writer, is much the gravest fault in language. Landor. 

HYPALLELOMORPH:  See Allelomorph. 

HYPANTHIUM:  A fruit consisting in large part of a receptacle, enlarged below the calyx, as in the alycanthus, the rose hip, and the pear. 

HYPAPOPHYSIS:  A process, or other element, of a vertebra developed from the ventral side of the centrum, as hæmal spines, and chevron bones.  -- Hy`pa*po*phys"i*al, a. 

HYPARTERIAL:  Situated below an artery; applied esp. to the branches of the bronchi given off below the point where the pulmonary artery crosses the bronchus. 

HYPASPIST:  A shield-bearer or armor-bearer. Mitford. 

HYPAXIAL:  Beneath the axis of the skeleton; subvertebral; hyposkeletal. 

HYPE:  Intense publicity for a future event, performed in a showy or excessively dramatic manner suggesting an importance not justified by the event; as, the hype surrounding the superbowl is usually ludicrous. [PJC] 

HYPE:  A prefix equivalent to super- or per-; as hyperoxide, or peroxide. [Obs.] See Per-. 

HYPERAEMIA:  A superabundance or congestion of blood in an organ or part of the body. Active hyperæmia, cognestion d%ue to increased flow of blood to a part.  -- Passive hyperæmia, interchange due to obstruction in the return of blood from a part.  -- Hy`per*æ"mic, a. 

HYPERAESTHESIA:  A state of exalted or morbidly increased sensibility of the body, or of a part of it.  -- Hy`per*æs*thet"ic, a. 

HYPERAPOPHYSIS:  A lateral and backward-projecting process on the dorsal side of a vertebra.  -- Hy`per*ap`o*phys"i*al, a. 

HYPERASPIST:  One who holds a shield over another; hence, a defender. [Obs.] Chillingworth. 

HYPERBATIC:  Of or pertaining to an hyperbaton; transposed; inverted. 

HYPERBATON:  A figurative construction, changing or inverting the natural order of words or clauses; as, "echoed the hills" for "the hills echoed." With a violent hyperbaton to transpose the text. Milton. 

HYPERBOLA:  A curve formed by a section of a cone, when the cutting plane makes a greater angle with the base than the side of the cone makes. It is a plane curve such that the difference of the distances from any point of it to two fixed points, called foci, is equal to a given distance. See Focus. If the cutting plane be produced so as to cut the opposite cone, another curve will be formed, which is also an hyperbola. Both curves are regarded as branches of the same hyperbola. See Illust. of Conic section, and Focus. 

HYPERBOLE:  A figure of speech in which the expression is an evident exaggeration of the meaning intended to be conveyed, or by which things are represented as much greater or less, better or worse, than they really are; a statement exaggerated fancifully, through excitement, or for effect. Our common forms of compliment are almost all of them extravagant hyperboles. Blair. Somebody has said of the boldest figure in rhetoric, the hyperbole, that it lies without deceiving. Macaulay.  HYPERBOLIC; HYPERBOLICAL Hy`per*bol"ic, Hy`per*bol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hyperbolicus, Gr. hyperbolique.]  1. (Math.)  Belonging to the hyperbola; having the nature of the hyperbola.  2. (Rhet.)  Relating to, containing, or of the nature of, hyperbole; exaggerating or diminishing beyond the fact; exceeding the truth; as, an hyperbolical expression. "This hyperbolical epitaph." Fuller. Hyperbolic functions (Math.), certain functions which have relations to the hyperbola corresponding to those which sines, cosines, tangents, etc., have to the circle; and hence, called hyperbolic sines, hyperbolic cosines, etc.  -- Hyperbolic logarithm. See Logarithm.  -- Hyperbolic spiral (Math.), a spiral curve, the law of which is, that the distance from the pole to the generating point varies inversely as the angle swept over by the radius vector. 

HYPERBOLICALLY:  In the form of an hyperbola.  2. (Rhet.)  With exaggeration; in a manner to express more or less than the truth. Sir W. Raleigh. 

HYPERBOLIFORM:  Having the form, or nearly the form, of an hyperbola. 

HYPERBOLISM:  The use of hyperbole. Jefferson. 

HYPERBOLIST:  One who uses hyperboles. 

HYPERBOLIZE:  To speak or write with exaggeration. Bp. Montagu. 

HYPERBOLIZE:  To state or represent hyperbolically. Fotherby. 

HYPERBOLOID:  A surface of the second order, which is cut by certain planes in hyperbolas; also, the solid, bounded in part by such a surface. Hyperboloid of revolution, an hyperboloid described by an hyperbola revolving about one of its axes. The surface has two separate sheets when the axis of revolution is the transverse axis, but only one when the axis of revolution is the conjugate axis of the hyperbola. 

HYPERBOLOID:  Having some property that belongs to an hyperboloid or hyperbola. 

HYPERBOREAN:  Of or pertaining to the region beyond the North wind, or to its inhabitants.  2. Northern; belonging to, or inhabiting, a region in very far north; most northern; hence, very cold; fright, as, a hyperborean coast or atmosphere. The hyperborean or frozen sea. C. Butler (1633). 

HYPERBOREAN:  One of the people who lived beyond the North wind, in a land of perpetual sunshine.  2. An inhabitant of the most northern regions. 

HYPERCARBURETED:  Having an excessive proportion of carbonic acid; -- said of bicarbonates or acid carbonates. [Written also hypercarburetted.] 

HYPERCATALECTIC:  Having a syllable or two beyond measure; as, a hypercatalectic verse. 

HYPERCHLORIC:  See Perchloric. 

HYPERCHROMATISM:  The condition of having an unusual intensity of color. 

HYPERCRITIC:  One who is critical beyond measure or reason; a carping critic; a captious censor. "Hypercritics in English poetry." Dryden. 

HYPERCRITIC:  Hypercritical. 

HYPERCRITICALLY:  In a hypercritical manner. 

HYPERCRITICISE:  To criticise with unjust severity; to criticise captiously. 

HYPERCRITICISM:  Excessive criticism, or unjust severity or rigor of criticism; zoilism. 

HYPERDICROTIC:  Excessive dicrotic; as, a hyperdicrotic pulse. 

HYPERDICROTISM:  A hyperdicrotic condition. 

HYPERDICROTOUS:  Hyperdicrotic. 

HYPERDULIA:  Veneration or worship given to the Virgin Mary as the most exalted of mere creatures; higher veneration than dulia. Addis & Arnold. 

HYPERDULY:  Hyperdulia. [Obs.] 

HYPERESTHESIA:  Same as Hyperæsthesia. 

HYPERICUM:  A genus of plants, generally with dotted leaves and yellow flowers; -- called also St. John's-wort. 

HYPERINOSIS:  A condition of the blood, characterized by an abnormally large amount of fibrin, as in many inflammatory diseases. 

HYPERION:  The god of the sun; in the later mythology identified with Apollo, and distinguished for his beauty. So excellent a king; that was, to this, Hyperion to a satyr. Shak. 

HYPERKINESIS:  Abnormally increased muscular movement; spasm. 

HYPERKINETIC:  Of or pertaining to hyperkinesis. 

HYPERMETAMORPHOSIS:  A kind of metamorphosis, in certain insects, in which the larva itself undergoes remarkable changes of form and structure during its growth. 

HYPERMETER:  A verse which has a redundant syllable or foot; a hypercatalectic verse.  2. Hence, anything exceeding the ordinary standard. When a man rises beyond six foot, he is an hypermeter. Addison. 

HYPERMETRICAL:  Having a redundant syllable; exceeding the common measure. Hypermetrical verse (Gr. & Lat. Pros.), a verse which contains a syllable more than the ordinary measure.  HYPERMETROPIA; HYPERMETROPY Hy`per*me*tro"pi*a, Hy`per*met"ro*py, n. Etym: [NL. hypermetropia, fr. Gr. Hypermeter.]  A condition of the eye in which, through shortness of the eyeball or fault of the refractive media, the rays of light come to a focus behind the retina; farsightedness; -- called also hyperopia. Cf. Emmetropia.  Note: In hypermetropia, vision for distant objects, although not better absolutely, is better than that for near objects, and hence, the individual is said to be farsighted. It is corrected by the use of convex glasses.  -- Hy`per*me*trop"ic, a. 

HYPERMYRIORAMA:  A show or exhibition having a great number of scenes or views. 

HYPERNOEA:  Abnormal breathing, due to slightly deficient arterialization of the blood; -- in distinction from eupnoea. See Eupnoea, and Dispnoea. 

HYPEROARTIA:  An order of marsipobranchs including the lampreys. The suckerlike moth contains numerous teeth; the nasal opening is in the middle of the head above, but it does not connect with the mouth. See Cyclostoma, and Lamprey. 

HYPEROPIA:  Hypermetropia.  -- Hy`per*op"tic, a. 

HYPERORGANIC:  Higher than, or beyond the sphere of, the organic. Sir W. Hamilton. 

HYPERORTHODOXY:  Orthodoxy pushed to excess. 

HYPEROTRETA:  An order of marsipobranchs, including the Myxine or hagfish and the genus Bdellostoma. They have barbels around the mouth, one tooth on the plate, and a communication between tionnasal aperture and the throat. See Hagfish. [Written also Hyperotreti.] 

HYPEROXIDE:  A compound having a relatively large percentage of oxygen; a peroxide. [Obs.]  HYPEROXYGENATED; HYPEROXYGENIZED Hy`per*ox"y*gen*a`ted, Hy`per*ox"y*gen*ized, a. (Chem.)  Combined with a relatively large amount of oxygen; -- said of higher oxides. [Obs.] 

HYPEROXYMURIATE:  A perchlorate. [Obs.] 

HYPEROXYMURIATIC:  Perchloric; as, hyperoxymuriatic acid. [Obs.] 

HYPERPHYSICAL:  Above or transcending physical laws; supernatural. Those who do not fly to some hyperphysical hypothesis. Sir W. Hamilton. 

HYPERPLASIA:  An increase in, or excessive growth of, the normal elements of any part.  Note: Hyperplasia relates to the formation of new elements, hypertrophy being an increase in bulk of preexisting normal elements. Dunglison. 

HYPERPLASTIC:  Tending to excess of formative action. 

HYPERPYREXIA:  A condition of excessive fever; an elevation of temperature in a disease, in excess of the limit usually observed in that disease. 

HYPERSECRETION:  Morbid or excessive secretion, as in catarrh. 

HYPERSENSIBILITY:  See Hyperæsthesia. 

HYPERSPACE:  An imagined space having more than three dimensions. 

HYPERSTHENE:  An orthorhombic mineral of the pyroxene group, of a grayish or greenish black color, often with a peculiar bronzelike luster (schiller) on the cleavage surface. 

HYPERSTHENIC:  Composed of, or containing, hypersthene. 

HYPERTHETICAL:  Exaggerated; excessive; hyperbolical. [Obs.] Hyperthetical or superlative . . . expression. Chapman. 

HYPERTHYRION:  That part of the architrave which is over a door or window.  HYPERTROPHIC; HYPERTROPHICAL Hy`per*troph"ic, Hy`per*troph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. hypertrophique.] (Med. & Biol.)  Of or pertaining to hypertrophy; affected with, or tending to, hypertrophy. 

HYPERTROPHIED:  Excessively developed; characterized by hypertrophy. 

HYPERTROPHY:  A condition of overgrowth or excessive development of an organ or part; -- the opposite of atrophy. 

HYPHAE:  The long, branching filaments of which the mycelium (and the greater part of the plant) of a fungus is formed. They are also found enveloping the gonidia of lichens, making up a large part of their structure. 

HYPHEN:  A mark or short dash, thus [-], placed at the end of a line which terminates with a syllable of a word, the remainder of which is carried to the next line; or between the parts of many a compound word; as in fine-leaved, clear-headed. It is also sometimes used to separate the syllables of words. 

HYPHEN:  To connect with, or separate by, a hyphen, as two words or the parts of a word. 

HYPHENATED:  United by hyphens; hyphened; as, a hyphenated or hyphened word. 

HYPHOMYCETES:  One of the great division of fungi, containing those species which have naked spores borne on free or only fasciculate threads. M. J. Berkley. 

HYPIDIOMORPHIC:  Partly idiomorphic; -- said of rock a portion only of whose constituents have a distinct crystalline form.  -- Hy*pid`i*o*mor"phic*al*ly, adv. 

HYPINOSIS:  A diminution in the normal amount of fibrin present in the blood. 

HYPNAGOGIC:  Leading to sleep; -- applied to the illusions of one who is half asleep. 

HYPNOBATE:  A somnambulist. [R.] 

HYPNOCYST:  A cyst in which some unicellular organisms temporarily inclose themselves, from which they emerge unchanged, after a period of drought or deficiency of food. In some instances, a process of spore formation seems to occur within such cysts. 

HYPNOGENIC:  Relating to the production of hypnotic sleep; as, the so-called hypnogenic pressure points, pressure upon which is said to cause an attack of hypnotic sleep. De Watteville. 

HYPNOLOGIST:  One who is versed in hypnology. 

HYPNOLOGY:  A treatise on sleep; the doctrine of sleep. 

HYPNOSCOPE:  An instrument for ascertaining the susceptibility of a person to hypnotic influences. 

HYPNOSIS:  Supervention of sleep. 

HYPNOTISM:  A form of sleep or somnambulism brought on by artificial means, in which there is an unusual suspension of some powers, and an unusual activity of others. It is induced by an action upon the nerves, through the medium of the senses, as in persons of very feeble organization, by gazing steadly at a very bright object held before the eyes, or by pressure upon certain points of the surface of the body. 

HYPNOTIZATION:  The act or process of producing hypnotism. 

HYPNOTIZE:  To induce hypnotism in; to place in a state of hypnotism. 

HYPNOTIZER:  One who hypnotizes. 

HYPNUM:  The largest genus of true mosses; feather moss.  HYPO- Hy"po-. Etym: [Gr. sub. See Sub-.]  1. A prefix signifying a less quantity, or a low state or degree, of that denoted by the word with which it is joined, or position under or beneath.  2. (Chem.)  A prefix denoting that the element to the name of which it is prefixed enters with a low valence, or in a low state of oxidization, usually the lowest, into the compounds indicated; as, hyposulphurous acid. 

HYPO:  Hypochondria. [Colloq.] 

HYPO:  Sodium hyposulphite, or thiosulphate, a solution of which is used as a bath to wash out the unchanged silver salts in a picture. [Colloq.] 

HYPOARIAN:  Of or pertaining to a hypoarion. 

HYPOARION:  An oval lobe beneath each of the optic lobes in many fishes; one of the inferior lobes. Owen. 

HYPOBLAST:  The inner or lower layer of the blastoderm; -- called also endoderm, entoderm, and sometimes hypoderm. See Illust. of Blastoderm, Delamination, and Ectoderm. 

HYPOBLASTIC:  Relating to, or connected with, the hypoblast; as, the hypoic sac. 

HYPOBOLE:  A figure in which several things are mentioned that seem to make against the argument, or in favor of the opposite side, each of them being refuted in order. 

HYPOBRANCHIAL:  Pertaining to the segment between the basibranchial and the ceratobranchial in a branchial arch.  -- n.  A hypobranchial bone or cartilage.  HYPOCARP; HYPOCARPIUM Hy"po*carp, Hy`po*car"pi*um, n. Etym: [NL. hypocarpium, fr. Gr. (Bot.)  A fleshy enlargement of the receptacle, or for the stem, below the proper fruit, as in the cashew. See Illust. of Cashew. 

HYPOCARPOGEAN:  Producing fruit below the ground. 

HYPOCAUST:  A furnace, esp. one connected with a series of small chambers and flues of tiles or other masonry through which the heat of a fire was distributed to rooms above. This contrivance, first used in bath, was afterwards adopted in private houses. 

HYPOCHLORITE:  A salt of hypochlorous acid; as, a calcium hypochloride. 

HYPOCHLOROUS:  Pertaining to, or derived from, chlorine having a valence lower than in chlorous compounds. Hypochlorous acid (Chem.), an acid derived from chlorine, not known in a pure state, but forming various salts, called hypochlorites. 

HYPOCHONDRES:  The hypochondriac regions. See Hypochondrium. 

HYPOCHONDRIA:  Hypochondriasis; melancholy; the blues. 

HYPOCHONDRIAC:  A person affected with hypochondriasis. He had become an incurable hypochondriac. Macaulay. 

HYPOCHONDRIACAL:  Same as Hypochondriac, 2.  -- Hy`po*chon"dri*a*cal*ly, adv. 

HYPOCHONDRIACISM:  Hypochondriasis. [R.] 

HYPOCHONDRIASIS:  A mental disorder in which melancholy and gloomy views torment the affected person, particularly concerning his own health. 

HYPOCHONDRIASM:  Hypochondriasis. [R.] 

HYPOCHONDRIUM:  Either of the hypochondriac regions. 

HYPOCHONDRY:  Hypochondriasis. 

HYPOCIST:  An astringent inspissated juice obtained from the fruit of a plant (Cytinus hypocistis), growing from the roots of the Cistus, a small European shrub. 

HYPOCLEIDIUM:  A median process on the furculum, or merrythought, of many birds, where it is connected with the sternum. 

HYPOCORISTIC:  Endearing; diminutive; as, the hypocoristic form of a name. The hypocoristic or pet form of William. Dr. Murray. 

HYPOCRATERIFORM:  hypocraterimorphous; salver-shaped. Wood. 

HYPOCRATERIMORPHOUS:  Salver-shaped; having a slender tube, expanding suddenly above into a bowl-shaped or spreading border, as in the blossom of the phlox and the lilac. 

HYPOCRISY:  The act or practice of a hypocrite; a feigning to be what one is not, or to feel what one does not feel; a dissimulation, or a concealment of one's real character, disposition, or motives; especially, the assuming of false appearance of virtue or religion; a simulation of goodness. Hypocrisy is the necessary burden of villainy. Rambler. Hypocrisy is the homage vice pays to virtue. La Rochefoucauld (Trans. ). 

HYPOCRITE:  One who plays a part; especially, one who, for the purpose of winning approbation of favor, puts on a fair outside seeming; one who feigns to be other and better than he is; a false pretender to virtue or piety; one who simulates virtue or piety. The hypocrite's hope shall perish. Job viii. 13. I dare swear he is no hypocrite, but prays from his heart. Shak.  Syn.  -- Deceiver; pretender; cheat. See Dissembler. 

HYPOCRITELY:  Hypocritically. [R.] Sylvester. 

HYPOCRITIC:  See Hypocritical. Swift. 

HYPOCRITICAL:  Of or pertaining to a hypocrite, or to hypocrisy; as, a hypocriticalperson; a hypocritical look; a hypocritical action. Hypocritical professions of friendship and of pacific intentions were not spared. Macaulay. -- Hyp`o*crit"ic*al*ly, adv. 

HYPOCRYSTALLINE:  Partly crystalline; -- said of rock which consists of crystals imbedded in a glassy ground mass. 

HYPOCYCLOID:  A curve traced by a point in the circumference of a circle which rolls on the concave side in the fixed circle. Cf. Epicycloid, and Trochoid. 

HYPODACTYLUM:  The under side of the toes. 

HYPODERM:  Same as Hypoblast. 

HYPODERMA:  A layer of tissue beneath the epidermis in plants, and performing the physiological function of strengthening the epidermal tissue. In phanerogamous plants it is developed as collenchyma.  2. (Zoöl.)  An inner cellular layer which lies beneath the chitinous cuticle of arthropods, annelids, and some other invertebrates. 

HYPODERMATIC:  Hypodermic.  -- Hyp`o*der*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

HYPODERMIC:  Of or pertaining to the parts under the skin. Hypodermic medication, the application of remedies under the epidermis, usually by means of a small syringe, called the hypodermic syringe.  -- Hyp`o*der"mic*al*ly, adv. 

HYPODERMIS:  Same as Hypoblast.  2. (Zoöl.)  Same as Hypoderma, 2.  HYPODICROTIC; HYPODICROTOUS Hyp`o*di*crot"ic, Hyp`o*di"cro*tous, a. (Physiol.)  Exhibiting retarded dicrotism; as, a hypodicrotic pulse curve. 

HYPOGAEIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, the peanut, or earthnut (Arachis hypogæa). Hypogæic acid (Chem.), an acid in the oil of the earthnut, in which it exists as a glyceride, and from which it is extracted as a white, crystalline substance. 

HYPOGASTRIC:  Of or pertaining to the hypogastrium or the hypogastric region. Hypogastric region. (a) The lower part of the abdomen. (b) An arbitrary division of the abdomen below the umbilical and between the two iliac regions. 

HYPOGASTRIUM:  The lower part of the abdomen. 

HYPOGEAN:  Hypogeous. [Written also hypogæan.] 

HYPOGENE:  Formed or crystallized at depths the earth's surface; -- said of granite, gneiss, and other rocks, whose crystallization is believed of have taken place beneath a great thickness of overlying rocks. Opposed to epigene. 

HYPOGEOUS:  Growing under ground; remaining under ground; ripening its fruit under ground. [Written also hypogæous.] 

HYPOGEUM:  The subterraneous portion of a building, as in amphitheaters, for the service of the games; also, subterranean galleries, as the catacombs. 

HYPOGLOSSAL:  Under the tongue; -- applied esp., in the higher vertebrates, to the twelfth or last pair of cranial nerves, which are distributed to the base of the tongue.  -- n.  One of the hypoglossal nerves. 

HYPOGNATOUS:  Having the maxilla, or lower jaw, longer than the upper, as in the skimmer. 

HYPOGYN:  An hypogynous plant. 

HYPOGYNOUS:  Inserted below the pistil or pistils; -- said of sepals, petals, and stamens; having the sepals, petals, and stamens inserted below the pistil; -- said of a flower or a plant. Gray. 

HYPOHYAL:  Pertaining to one or more small elements in the hyoidean arch of fishes, between the caratohyal and urohyal.  -- n.  One of the hypohyal bones or cartilages. 

HYPONASTIC:  Exhibiting a downward convexity caused by unequal growth. Cf. Epinastic. 

HYPONASTY:  Downward convexity, or convexity of the inferior surface. 

HYPONITRITE:  A salt of hyponitrous acid. 

HYPONITROUS:  Containing or derived from nitrogen having a lower valence than in nitrous compounds. Hyponitrous acid (Chem.), an unstable nitrogen acid, NOH, whose salts are produced by reduction of the nitrates, although the acid itself is not isolated in the free state except as a solution in water; -- called also nitrosylic acid. 

HYPOPHARYNX:  An appendage or fold on the lower side of the pharynx, in certain insects. 

HYPOPHOSPHATE:  A salt of hypophosphoric acid. 

HYPOPHOSPHITE:  A salt of hypophosphorous acid. 

HYPOPHOSPHORIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, or containing, phosphorus in a lower state of oxidation than in phosphoric compounds; as, hypophosphoric acid. Hypophosphoric acid (Chem.), an acid, P2H4O6, produced by the slow oxidation of moist phosphorus, and isolated only as a solution in water. It is regarded as a condensation product of one molecule of phosphoric acid with one of phosphorous acid, by partial dehydration. 

HYPOPHOSPHOROUS:  Pertaining to, or containing, phosphorus in a lower state of oxidation than in phosphoric compounds; as, hypophosphorous acid. Hypophosphorous acid (Chem.) , an acid, H3PO2, whose salts are produced by the action of barium hygrate on phosphorus. It may be obtained from its water solution, by exaporation and freezing, as a white crystalline substance. It is a powerful reducing agent. 

HYPOPHYLLOUS:  Being or growing on the under side of a leaf, as the fruit dots of ferns. 

HYPOPHYSIAL:  Of or pertaining to the hypophysis; pituitary. 

HYPOPHYSIS:  See Pituitary body, under Pituitary.  2. (Med.)  Cataract. 

HYPOPLASTRON:  The third lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also hyposternum. 

HYPOPTILUM:  An accessory plume arising from the posterior side of the stem of the contour feathers of many birds; -- called also aftershaft. See Illust. of Feather. 

HYPORADIUS:  One of the barbs of the hypoptilum, or aftershaft of a feather. See Feather. 

HYPORHACHIS:  The stem of an aftershaft or hypoptilum. [Written also hyporachis.] 

HYPOSKELETAL:  Beneath the endoskeleton; hypaxial; as, the hyposkeletal muscles; -- opposed to episkeletal. 

HYPOSPADIAS:  A deformity of the penis, in which the urethra opens upon its under surface. 

HYPOSTASIS:  Substance; subsistence; essence; person; personality; -- used by the early theologians to denote any one of the three subdivisions of the Godhead, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.  Note: The Council of Alexandria (a.d. 362) defined hypostasis as synonymous with person. Schaff-Herzog.  3. Principle; an element; -- used by the alchemists in speaking of salt, sulphur, and mercury, which they considered as the three principles of all material bodies.  4. (Med.)  That which is deposited at the bottom of a fluid; sediment. 

HYPOSTASIZE:  To make into a distinct substance; to conceive or treat as an existing being; to hypostatize. [R.] The pressed Newtonians . . . refused to hypostasize the law of gravitation into an ether. Coleridge.  HYPOSTATIC; HYPOSTATICAL Hy`po*stat"ic, Hy`po*stat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. hypostatique.]  1. Relating to hypostasis, or substance; hence, constitutive, or elementary. The grand doctrine of the chymists, touching their three hypostatical principles. Boyle.  2. Personal, or distinctly personal; relating to the divine hypostases, or substances. Bp. Pearson.  3. (Med.)  Depending upon, or due to, deposition or setting; as, hypostatic cognestion, cognestion due to setting of blood by gravitation. Hypostatic union (Theol.), the union of the divine with the human nature of Christ. Tillotson. 

HYPOSTATICALLY:  In a hypostatic manner. 

HYPOSTERNUM:  See Hypoplastron.  HYPOSTOME; HYPOSTOMA Hy"po*stome, Hy*pos"to*ma, n. Etym: [NL. hypostoma, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  The lower lip of trilobites, crustaceans, etc. 

HYPOSTYLE:  Resting upon columns; constructed by means of columns; -- especially applied to the great hall at Karnak. 

HYPOSULPHATE:  A salt of hyposulphuric acid. 

HYPOSULPHURIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, sulphur in a lower state of oxidation than in the sulphuric compounds; as, hyposulphuric acid. Hyposulphuric acid, an acid, H2S2O6, obtained by the action of manganese dioxide on sulphur dioxide, and known only in a watery solution and in its salts; -- called also dithionic acid. See Dithionic. 

HYPOSULPHUROUS:  Pertaining to, or containing, sulphur, all, or a part, in a low state of oxidation. Hyposulphurous acid. (a) Thiosulphuric acid. [Obs.] (b) An acid, H2SO2, obtained by the reduction of sulphurous acid. It is not obtained in the free state, but in an orange-yellow water solution, which is a strong reducing and bleaching agent. Called also hydrosulphurous acid. 

HYPOTARSUS:  A process on the posterior side of the tarsometatarsus of many birds; the calcaneal process.  -- Hy`po*tar"sal, a.  HYPOTENUSE; HYPOTHENUSE Hy*pot"e*nuse, Hy*poth"e*nuse, n. Etym: [L. hypotenusa, Gr. Subtend.] (Geom.)  The side of a right-angled triangle that is opposite to the right angle. 

HYPOTHEC:  A landlord's right, independently of stipulation, over the stocking (cattle, implements, etc.), and crops of his tenant, as security for payment of rent. 

HYPOTHECA:  An obligation by which property of a debtor was made over to his creditor in security of his debt.  Note: It differed from pledge in regard to possession of the property subject to the obligation; pledge requiring, simple hypotheca not requiring, possession of it by the creditor. The modern mortgage corresponds very closely with it. Kent. 

HYPOTHECATE:  To subject, as property, to liability for a debt or engagement without delivery of possession or transfer of title; to pledge without delivery of possession; to mortgage, as ships, or other personal property; to make a contract by bottomry. See Hypothecation, Bottomry. He had found the treasury empty and the pay of the navy in arrear. He had no power to hypothecate any part of the public revenue. Those who lent him money lent it on no security but his bare word. Macaulay. 

HYPOTHECATION:  The act or contract by which property is hypothecated; a right which a creditor has in or to the property of his debtor, in virtue of which he may cause it to be sold and the price appropriated in payment of his debt. This is a right in the thing, or jus in re. Pothier. B. R. Curtis. There are but few cases, if any, in our law, where an hypothecation, in the strict sense of the Roman law, exists; that is a pledge without possession by the pledgee. Story.  Note: In the modern civil law, this contract has no application to movable property, not even to ships, to which and their cargoes it is most frequently applied in England and America. See Hypothecate. B. R. Curtis. Domat.  2. (Law of Shipping)  A contract whereby, in consideration of money advanced for the necessities of the ship, the vessel, freight, or cargo is made liable for its repayment, provided the ship arrives in safety. It is usually effected by a bottomry bond. See Bottomry.  Note: This term is often applied to mortgages of ships. 

HYPOTHECATOR:  One who hypothecates or pledges anything as security for the repayment of money borrowed.  HYPOTHENAL; HYPOTHENAR Hy*poth"e*nal, Hy*poth"e*nar, a. Etym: [Pref. hypo- + thenar.] (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to the prominent part of the palm of the hand above the base of the little finger, or a corresponding part in the forefoot of an animal; as, the hypothenar eminence. 

HYPOTHENAR:  The hypothenar eminence. 

HYPOTHENUSAL:  Of or pertaining to hypothenuse. [R.] 

HYPOTHENUSE:  Same as Hypotenuse. 

HYPOTHESIS:  A tentative theory or supposition provisionally adopted to explain certain facts, and to guide in the investigation of others; hence, frequently called a working hypothesis.  Syn.  -- Supposition; assumption. See Theory. Nebular hypothesis. See under Nebular.  HYPOTHETIC; HYPOTHETICAL Hy`po*thet"ic, Hy`po*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hypotheticus, Gr. hypothétique.]  Characterized by, or of the nature of, an hypothesis; conditional; assumed without proof, for the purpose of reasoning and deducing proof, or of accounting for some fact or phenomenon. Causes hypothetical at least, if not real, for the various phenomena of the existence of which our experience informs us. Sir W. Hamilton. Hypothetical baptism (Ch. of Eng.), baptism administered to persons in respect to whom it is doubtful whether they have or have not been baptized before. Hook.  -- Hy`po*thet"ic*al*ly, adv. South. 

HYPOTHETIST:  One who proposes or supports an hypothesis. [R.] 

HYPOTRACHELIUM:  Same as Gorgerin. 

HYPOTRICHA:  A division of ciliated Infusoria in which the cilia cover only the under side of the body. 

HYPOTROCHOID:  A curve, traced by a point in the radius, or radius produced, of a circle which rolls upon the concave side of a fixed circle. See Hypocycloid, Epicycloid, and Trochoid. 

HYPOTYPOSIS:  A vivid, picturesque description of scenes or events. 

HYPOXANTHIN:  A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, closely related to xanthin and uric acid, widely distributed through the animal body, but especially in muscle tissue; -- called also sarcin, sarkin. 

HYPOZOIC:  Anterior in age to the lowest rocks which contain organic remains. Lyell. 

HYPPISH:  Affected with hypochondria; hypped. [Written also hyppish.] 

HYPPOGRIFF:  See Hyppogriff. 

HYPSILOID:  Resembling the Greek letter 

HYPSOMETER:  An instrument for measuring heights by observation of barometric pressure; esp., one for determining heights by ascertaining the boiling point of water. It consists of a vessel for water, with a lamp for heating it, and an inclosed thermometer for showing the temperature of ebullition.  HYPSOMETRIC; HYPSOMETRICAL Hyp`so*met"ric, Hyp`so*met"ric*al, a.  Of or pertaining to hypsometry. 

HYPSOMETRY:  That branch of the science of geodesy which has to do with the measurement of heights, either absolutely with reference to the sea level, or relatively. 

HYPURAL:  Under the tail; -- applied to the bones which support the caudal fin rays in most fishes. 

HYRACOID:  Of or pertaining to the Hyracoidea.  -- n.  One of the Hyracoidea. 

HYRACOIDEA:  An order of small hoofed mammals, comprising the single living genus Hyrax. 

HYRAX:  Any animal of the genus Hyrax, of which about four species are known. They constitute the order Hyracoidea. The best known species are the daman (H. Syriacus) of Palestine, and the klipdas (H. capensis) of South Africa. Other species are H. arboreus and H. Sylvestris, the former from Southern, and the latter from Western, Africa. See Daman.  HYRCANIAN; HYRCAN Hyr*ca"ni*an, Hyr"can, a.  Of or pertaining to Hyrcania, an ancient country or province of Asia, southeast of the Caspian (which was also called the Hyracanian) Sea. "The Hyrcan tiger." "Hyracanian deserts." Shak. 

HYRSE:  Millet. 

HYRST:  A wood. See Hurst. 

HYSON:  A fragrant kind of green tea. Hyson skin, the light and inferior leaves separated from the hyson by a winnowing machine. M'Culloch. 

HYSSOP:  A plant (Hyssopus officinalis). The leaves have an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste.  Note: The hyssop of Scripture is supposed to be a species of caper (Capparis spinosa), but probably the name was used for several different plants. 

HYSTERANTHOUS:  Having the leaves expand after the flowers have opened. Henslow. 

HYSTERESIS:  A lagging or retardation of the effect, when the forces acting upon a body are changed, as if from velocity or internal friction; a temporary resistance to change from a condition previously invuced, observed in magnetism, thermoelectricity, etc., on reversal of polarity. 

HYSTERETIC:  Of or pert. to hysteresis. -- Hysteretic constant, the hysteretic loss in ergs per cubic centimeter per cycle. 

HYSTERIA:  A nervous affection, occurring almost exclusively in women, in which the emotional and reflex excitability is exaggerated, and the will power correspondingly diminished, so that the patient loses control over the emotions, becomes the victim of imaginary sensations, and often falls into paroxism or fits.  Note: The chief symptoms are convulsive, tossing movements of the limbs and head, uncontrollable crying and laughing, and a choking sensation as if a ball were lodged in the throat. The affection presents the most varied symptoms, often simulating those of the gravest diseases, but generally curable by mental treatment alone.  HYSTERIC; HYSTERICAL Hys*ter"ic, Hys*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. hystericus, Gr. utter, out.]  Of or pertaining to hysteria; affected, or troubled, with hysterics; convulsive, fitful. With no hysteric weakness or feverish excitement, they preserved their peace and patience. Bancroft. 

HYSTERICS:  Hysteria. 

HYSTEROEPILEPSY:  A disease resembling hysteria in its nature, and characterized by the occurrence of epileptiform convulsions, which can often be controlled or excited by pressure on the ovaries, and upon other definite points in the body.  -- Hys`ter*o*ep`i*lep"tic, a. 

HYSTEROGENIC:  Producing hysteria; as, the hysterogenicpressure points on the surface of the body, pressure upon which is said both to produce and arrest an attack of hysteria. De Watteville. 

HYSTEROLOGY:  A figure by which the ordinary course of thought is inverted in expression, and the last put first; -- called also hysteron proteron.  HYSTERON PROTERON Hys"te*ron prot"e*ron. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.) (a) A figure in which the natural order of sense is reversed; hysterology; as, valet atque vivit, "he is well and lives." (b) An inversion of logical order, in which the conclusion is put before the premises, or the thing proved before the evidence. 

HYSTEROPHYTE:  A plant, like the fungus, which lives on dead or living organic matter.  -- Hys`ter*oph"y*tal, a. 

HYSTEROTOMY:  The Cæsarean section. See under Cæsarean. 

HYSTRICINE:  Like or pertaining to the porcupines. 

HYSTRICOMORPHOUS:  Like, or allied to, the porcupines; -- said of a group (Hystricomorpha) of rodents. 

HYSTRIX:  A genus of rodents, including the porcupine. 

HYTHE:  A small haven. See Hithe. [Obs.] 

I:  See Y-. 

I:  The nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a speaker or writer denotes himself. 

IAMATOLOGY:  Materia Medica; that branch of therapeutics which treats of remedies. 

IAMB:  An iambus or iambic. [R.] 

IAMBIC:  Consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented; as, an iambic foot.  2. Pertaining to, or composed of, iambics; as, an iambic verse; iambic meter. See Lambus. 

IAMBICAL:  Iambic. [Obs. or R.] 

IAMBICALLY:  In a iambic manner; after the manner of iambics. 

IAMBIZE:  To satirize in iambics; to lampoon. [R.] 

IAMBUS:  A foot consisting of a short syllable followed by a long one, as in âmans, or of an unaccented syllable followed by an accented one, as invent; an iambic. See the Couplet under Iambic, n. 

IANTHINA:  Any gastropod of the genus Ianthina, of which various species are found living in mid ocean; -- called also purple shell, and violet snail. [Written also janthina.]  Note: It floats at the surface by means of a raft, which it constructs by forming and uniting together air bubbles of hardened mucus. The Tyrian purple of the ancients was obtained in part from mollusks of this genus. 

IATRALIPTIC:  Treating diseases by anointing and friction; as, the iatraliptic method. [Written also iatroleptic.]  IATRIC; IATRICAL I*at"ric, I*at"ric*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to medicine, or to medical men. 

IATROCHEMICAL:  Of or pertaining to iatrochemistry, or to the iatrochemists. 

IATROCHEMIST:  A physician who explained or treated diseases upon chemical principles; one who practiced iatrochemistry. 

IATROCHEMISTRY:  Chemistry applied to, or used in, medicine; -- used especially with reference to the doctrines in the school of physicians in Flanders, in the 17th century, who held that health depends upon the proper chemical relations of the fluids of the body, and who endeavored to explain the conditions of health or disease by chemical principles. 

IATROMATHEMATICAL:  Of or pertaining to iatromathematicians or their doctrine. 

IATROMATHEMATICIAN:  One of a school of physicians in Italy, about the middle of the 17th century, who tried to apply the laws of mechanics and mathematics to the human body, and hence were eager student of anatomy; -- opposed to the iatrochemists. 

IBERIAN:  Of or pertaining to Iberia. 

IBEX:  One of several species of wild goats having very large, recurved horns, transversely ridged in front; -- called also steinbok.  Note: The Alpine ibex (Capra ibex) is the best known. The Spanish, or Pyrenean, ibex (C. Hispanica) has smoother and more spreading horns. 

IBIDEM:  In the same place; -- abbreviated ibid. or ib. 

IBIS:  Any bird of the genus Ibis and several allied genera, of the family Ibidæ, inhabiting both the Old World and the New. Numerous species are known. They are large, wading birds, having a long, curved beak, and feed largely on reptiles.  Note: The sacred ibis of the ancient Egyptians (Ibis Æthiopica) has the head and neck black, without feathers. The plumage of the body and wings is white, except the tertiaries, which are lengthened and form a dark purple plume. In ancient times this bird was extensively domesticated in Egypt, but it is now seldom seen so far north. The glossy ibis (Plegadis autumnalis), which is widely distributed both in the Old World and the New, has the head and neck feathered, except between the eyes and bill; the scarlet ibis (Guara rubra) and the white ibis (G. alba) inhabit the West Indies and South America, and are rarely found in the United States. The wood ibis (Tantalus loculator) of America belongs to the Stork family (Ciconidæ). See Wood ibis.  -IBLE -i*ble  . See -able. 

IBSENISM:  The dramatic practice or purpose characteristic of the writings of Henrik Ibsen (1828-1906), Norwegian poet and dramatist, whose best-known plays deal with conventional hypocrisies, the story in each play thus developing a definite moral problem.  -IC -ic. Etym: [L. -icus, Gr. ique.]  1. A suffix signifying, in general, relating to, or characteristic of; as, historic, hygienic, telegraphic, etc.  2. (Chem.)  A suffix, denoting that the element indicated enters into certain compounds with its highest valence, or with a valence relatively higher than in compounds where the name of the element ends in -ous; as, ferric, sulphuric. It is also used in the general sense of pertaining to; as, hydric, sodic, calcic. 

ICARIAN:  Soaring too high for safety, like Icarus; adventurous in flight. 

ICEBERG:  A large mass of ice, generally floating in the ocean.  Note: Icebergs are large detached portions of glaciers, which in cold regions often project into the sea. 

ICEBIRD:  An Arctic sea bird, as the Arctic fulmar. 

ICEBOUND:  Totally surrounded with ice, so as to be incapable of advancing; as, an icebound vessel; also, surrounded by or fringed with ice so as to hinder easy access; as, an icebound coast.  ICE-BUILT Ice"-built`, a.  1. Composed of ice.  2. Loaded with ice. "Ice-built mountains." Gray. 

ICEFALL:  A frozen waterfall, or mass of ice resembling a frozen waterfall. Coleridge. 

ICELANDER:  A native, or one of the Scandinavian people, of Iceland. 

ICELANDIC:  Of or pertaining to Iceland; relating to, or resembling, the Icelanders. 

ICELANDIC:  The language of the Icelanders. It is one of the Scandinavian group, and is more nearly allied to the Old Norse than any other language now spoken.  ICELAND MOSS Ice"land moss`. (Bot.)  A kind of lichen (Cetraria Icelandica) found from the Arctic regions to the North Temperate zone. It furnishes a nutritious jelly and other forms of food, and is used in pulmonary complaints as a demulcent.  ICELAND SPAR Ice"land spar`. (Min.)  A transparent variety of calcite, the best of which is obtained in Iceland. It is used for the prisms of the polariscope, because of its strong double refraction. Cf. Calcite. 

ICEMAN:  A plant (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum), sprinkled with pellucid, watery vesicles, which glisten like ice. It is native along the Mediterranean, in the Canaries, and in South Africa. Its juice is said to be demulcent and diuretic; its ashes are used in Spain in making glass. Ice-skater = one who skates on ice wearing an ice skate; esp. an athlete who performs athletic or artistic movements on a sheet of ice, wearing ice skates; including speed skater and figure skater 

ICEQUAKE:  The crash or concussion attending the breaking up of masses of ice, -- often due to contraction from extreme cold. 

ICH:  I. [Obs.] Chaucer.  Note: In the Southern dialect of Early English this is the regular form. Cf. Ik. 

ICHNEUMON:  Any carnivorous mammal of the genus Herpestes, and family Viverridæ. Numerous species are found in Asia and Africa. The Egyptian species(H. ichneumon), which ranges to Spain and Palestine, is noted for destroying the eggs and young of the crocodile as well as various snakes and lizards, and hence was considered sacred by the ancient Egyptians. The common species of India (H. griseus), known as the mongoose, has similar habits and is often domesticated. It is noted for killing the cobra.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any hymenopterous insect of the family Ichneumonidæ, of which several thousand species are known, belonging to numerous genera.  Note: The female deposits her eggs upon, or in, the bodies of other insects, such as caterpillars, plant lice, etc. The larva lives upon the internal tissues of the insect in which it is parasitic, and finally kills it. Hence, many of the species are beneficial to agriculture by destroying noxious insects. Ichneumon fly. See Ichneumon, 2. 

ICHNEUMONIDAN:  Of or pertaining to the Ichneumonidæ, or ichneumon flies.  -- n.  One of the Ichneumonidæ. 

ICHNEUMONIDES:  The ichneumon flies. 

ICHNITE:  A fossil footprint; as, the ichnites in the Triassic sandstone. Page.  ICHNOGRAPHIC; ICHNOGRAPHICAL Ich`no*graph"ic, Ich`no*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ichonographique.]  Of or pertaining to ichonography; describing a ground plot. 

ICHNOGRAPHY:  A horizontal section of a building or other object, showing its true dimensions according to a geometric scale; a ground plan; a map; also, the art of making such plans. 

ICHNOLITE:  A fossil footprint; an ichnite. 

ICHNOLITHOLOGY:  Same as Ichnology. Hitchcock. 

ICHNOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to ichnology. 

ICHNOLOGY:  The branch of science which treats of fossil footprints. 

ICHNOSCOPY:  The search for the traces of anything. [R.] 

ICHOR:  An ethereal fluid that supplied the place of blood in the veins of the gods.  2. A thin, acrid, watery discharge from an ulcer, wound, etc. 

ICHORHAEMIA:  Infection of the blood with ichorous or putrid substances. 

ICHOROUS:  Of or like ichor; thin; watery; serous; sanious. 

ICHTHIDIN:  A substance from the egg yolk of osseous fishes. 

ICHTHIN:  A nitrogenous substance resembling vitellin, present in the egg yolk of cartilaginous fishes. 

ICHTHULIN:  A substance from the yolk of salmon's egg. 

ICHTHUS:  In early Christian and eccesiastical art, an emblematic fish, or the Greek word for fish, which combined the initials of the Greek words 

ICHTHYIC:  Like, or pertaining to, fishes.  ICHTHYOCOL; ICHTHYOCOLLA Ich"thy*o*col, Ich`thy*o*col"la, n. Etym: [L. ichthyocolla, Gr. ichthyocolle.]  Fish glue; isinglass; a glue prepared from the sounds of certain fishes. 

ICHTHYOCOPROLITE:  Fossil dung of fishes. 

ICHTHYODORULITE:  One of the spiny plates foundon the back and tail of certain skates. 

ICHTHYOGRAPHY:  A treatise on fishes.  ICHTHYOID; ICHTHYOIDAL Ich"thy*oid, Ich`thy*oid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)  Somewhat like a fish; having some of the characteristics of fishes; -- said of some amphibians. 

ICHTHYOL:  An oily substance prepared by the dry distillation of a bituminous mineral containing fossil fishes. It is used in medicine as a remedy in some forms of skin diseases. 

ICHTHYOLATRY:  Worship of fishes, or of fish-shaped idols. Layard. 

ICHTHYOLITE:  A fossil fish, or fragment of a fish.  ICHTHYOLOGIC; ICHTHYOLOGICAL Ich`thy*o*log"ic, Ich`thy*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ichthyologique.]  Of or pertaining to ichthyology. 

ICHTHYOLOGIST:  One versed in, or who studies, ichthyology. 

ICHTHYOLOGY:  The natural history of fishes; that branch of zoölogy which relates to fishes, including their structure, classification, and habits. 

ICHTHYOMANCY:  Divination by the heads or the entrails of fishes. 

ICHTHYOMORPHA:  The Urodela.  ICHTHYOMORPHIC; ICHTHYOMORPHOUS Ich`thy*o*mor"phic, Ich`thy*o*mor"phous, a. Etym: [See Ichthyomorpha.]  Fish-shaped; as, the ichthyomorphic idols of ancient Assyria. 

ICHTHYOPHAGIST:  One who eats, or subsists on, fish. 

ICHTHYOPHAGOUS:  Eating, or subsisting on, fish. 

ICHTHYOPHAGY:  The practice of eating, or living upon, fish. 

ICHTHYOPHTHALMITE:  See Apophyllite. [R.] 

ICHTHYOPHTHIRA:  A division of copepod crustaceans, including numerous species parasitic on fishes. 

ICHTHYOPSIDA:  A grand division of the Vertebrata, including the Amphibia and Fishes. 

ICHTHYOPTERYGIA:  See Ichthyosauria. 

ICHTHYOPTERYGIUM:  The typical limb, or lateral fin, of fishes. 

ICHTHYORNIS:  An extinct genus of toothed birds found in the American Cretaceous formation. It is remarkable for having biconcave vertebræ, and sharp, conical teeth set in sockets. Its wings were well developed. It is the type of the order Odontotormæ. 

ICHTHYOSAUR:  One of the Ichthyosaura. 

ICHTHYOSAURIA:  An extinct order of marine reptiles, including Ichthyosaurus and allied forms; -- called also Ichthyopterygia. They have not been found later than the Cretaceous period. 

ICHTHYOSAURIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Ichthyosauria.  -- n.  One of the Ichthyosauria. 

ICHTHYOSAURUS:  An extinct genus of marine reptiles; -- so named from their short, biconcave vertebræ, resembling those of fishes. Several species, varying in length from ten to thirty feet, are known from the Liassic, Oölitic, and Cretaceous formations. 

ICHTHYOSIS:  A disease in which the skin is thick, rough, and scaly; -- called also fishskin.  -- Ich`thy*ot"ic, a. 

ICHTHYOTOMIST:  One skilled in ichthyotomy. 

ICHTHYOTOMY:  The anatomy or dissection of fishes. [R.] 

ICHTHYS:  Same as Ichthus. 

ICICLE:  A pendent, and usually conical, mass of ice, formed by freezing of dripping water; as, the icicles on the eaves of a house. 

ICICLED:  Having icicles attached. 

ICILY:  In an icy manner; coldly. Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, Dead perfection, no more. Tennyson. 

ICINESS:  The state or quality of being icy or very cold; frigidity. 

ICING:  A coating or covering resembling ice, as of sugar and milk or white of egg; frosting. 

ICKLE:  An icicle. [Prov. Eng.] 

ICON:  An image or representation; a portrait or pretended portrait. Netherlands whose names and icons are published. Hakewill. 

ICONICAL:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, images, pictures, or representations of any kind. 

ICONISM:  The formation of a figure, representation, or semblance; a delineation or description. Some kind of apish imitations, counterfeit iconisms. Cudworth. 

ICONIZE:  To form an image or likeness of. [R.] Cudworth. 

ICONOCLASM:  The doctrine or practice of the iconoclasts; image breaking. 

ICONOCLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to the iconoclasts, or to image breaking. Milman.  ICONODULE; ICONODULIST I*con"o*dule, I*con"o*du`list, n. Etym: [Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)  One who serves images; -- opposed to an iconoclast. Schaff- Herzog Encyc. 

ICONOGRAPH:  An engraving or other picture or illustration for a book. 

ICONOGRAPHER:  A maker of images. Fairholt. 

ICONOLATER:  One who worships images. 

ICONOLATRY:  The worship of images as symbols; -- distinguished from idolatry, the worship of images themselves. 

ICONOLOGY:  The discussion or description of portraiture or of representative images. Cf. Iconography. 

ICONOMACHY:  Hostility to images as objects of worship. [R.] 

ICONOMANIA:  A mania or infatuation for icons, whether as objects of devotion, bric-a-brac, or curios. 

ICONOMICAL:  Opposed to pictures or images as objects of worship. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

ICONOPHILIST:  A student, or lover of the study, of iconography. 

ICOSAHEDRAL:  Having twenty equal sides or faces. 

ICOSAHEDRON:  A solid bounded by twenty sides or faces. Regular icosahedron, one of the five regular polyhedrons, bounded by twenty equilateral triangules. Five triangules meet to form each solid angle of the polyhedron. 

ICOSANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants, having twenty or more stamens inserted in the calyx.  ICOSANDRIAN; ICOSANDROUS I`co*san"dri*an, I`co*san"drous, a. (Bot.)  Pertaining to the class Icosandria; having twenty or more stamens inserted in the calyx. 

ICOSITETRAHEDRON:  A twenty-four-sided solid; a tetragonal trisoctahedron or trapezohedron.  -ICS -ics  . A suffix used in forming the names of certain sciences, systems, etc., as acoustics, mathematics, dynamics, statistics, politics, athletics.  Note: The names sciences ending in ics, as mathematics, mechanics, metaphysics, optics, etc., are, with respect to their form, nouns in the plural number. The plural form was probably introduced to mark the complex nature of such sciences; and it may have been in imitation of the use of the Greek plurals ics were construed with a verb or a pronoun in the plural; but it is now generally considered preferable to treat them as singular. In Greman we have die Mathematik, die Mechanik, etc., and in French la metaphysique, la optique, etc., corresponding to our mathematics, mechanics, metaphysics, optics, etc. Mathematics have for their object the consideration of whatever is capable of being numbered or measured. John Davidson. The citations subjoined will serve as examples of the best present usage. Ethics is the sciences of the laws which govern our actions as moral agents. Sir W. Hamilton. All parts of knowledge have their origin in metaphysics, and finally, perhaps, revolve into it. De Quincey. Mechanics, like pure mathematics, may be geometrical, or may be analytical; that is, it may treat space either by a direct consideration of its properties, or by a symbolical representation. Whewell. 

ICTERIC:  A remedy for the jaundice.  ICTERIC; ICTERICAL Ic*ter"ic, Ic*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. ictericus, Gr. ictérique.]  1. Pertaining to, or affected with, jaundice.  2. Good against the jaundice. Johnson.  ICTERITIOUS; ICTERITOUS Ic`ter*i"tious, Ic*ter"i*tous, a.  Yellow; of the color of the skin when it is affected by the jaundice. 

ICTEROID:  Of a tint resembling that produced by jaundice; yellow; as, an icteroid tint or complexion. 

ICTERUS:  The jaundice. 

ICTIC:  Pertaining to, or caused by, a blow; sudden; abrupt. [R.] H. Bushnell. 

ICTUS:  The stress of voice laid upon accented syllable of a word. Cf. Arsis.  2. (Med.)  A stroke or blow, as in a sunstroke, the sting of an insect, pulsation of an artery, etc. 

ICY:  Spangled with ice. Mounting up in icy-pearled car. Milton.  I'D I'd  . A contraction from I would or I had. 

ID:  A small fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Leuciscus idus or Idus idus) of Europe. A domesticated variety, colored like the goldfish, is called orfe in Germany. 

IDALIAN:  Of or pertaining to Idalium, a mountain city in Cyprus, or to Venus, to whom it was sacred. "Idalian Aphrodité." Tennyson. 

IDE:  Same as Id.  -IDE -ide. (Chem.)  A suffix used to denote: (a) The nonmetallic, or negative, element or radical in a binary compound; as, oxide, sulphide, chloride. (b) A compound which is an anhydride; as, glycolide, phthalide. (c) Any one of a series of derivatives; as, indogenide, glucoside, etc. 

IDEAL:  Imaginary.  Syn.  -- Intellectual; mental; visionary; fanciful; imaginary; unreal; impracticable; utopian. 

IDEAL:  A mental conception regarded as a standard of perfection; a model of excellence, beauty, etc. The ideal is to be attained by selecting and assembling in one whole the beauties and perfections which are usually seen in different individuals, excluding everything defective or unseemly, so as to form a type or model of the species. Thus, the Apollo Belvedere is the ideal of the beauty and proportion of the human frame. Fleming. Beau ideal. See Beau ideal. 

IDEALESS:  Destitute of an idea. 

IDEALISM:  The system or theory that denies the existence of material bodies, and teaches that we have no rational grounds to believe in the reality of anything but ideas and their relations. 

IDEALISTIC:  Of or pertaining to idealists or their theories. 

IDEALITY:  The conceptive faculty. 

IDEALIZATION:  The representation of natural objects, scenes, etc., in such a way as to show their most important characteristics; the study of the ideal. 

IDEALIZE:  To treat in an ideal manner. See Idealization, 2. 

IDEALIZE:  To form ideals. 

IDEALIZER:  An idealist. 

IDEALLY:  In an ideal manner; by means of ideals; mentally. 

IDEALOGIC:  Of or pertaining to an idealogue, or to idealization. 

IDEALOGUE:  One given to fanciful ideas or theories; a theorist; a spectator. [R.] Mrs. Browning.  IDEAT; IDEATE I*de"at, I*de"ate, n. Etym: [LL. ideatum. See Idea.] (Metaph.)  The actual existence supposed to correspond with an idea; the correlate in real existence to the idea as a thought or existence. 

IDEATION:  The faculty or capacity of the mind for forming ideas; the exercise of this capacity; the act of the mind by which objects of sense are apprehended and retained as objects of thought. The whole mass of residua which have been accumulated . . . all enter now into the process of ideation. J. D. Morell. 

IDEATIONAL:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, ideation. Certain sensational or ideational stimuli. Blackw. Mag. 

IDEM:  The same; the same as above; -- often abbreviated id. 

IDENTIC:  Identical. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

IDENTICALLY:  In an identical manner; with respect to identity. "Identically the same." Bp. Warburton. "Identically different." Ross. 

IDENTICALNESS:  The quality or state of being identical; sameness. 

IDENTIFIABLE:  Capable of being identified. 

IDENTIFICATION:  The act of identifying, or proving to be the same; also, the state of being identified. 

IDENTIFY:  To become the same; to coalesce in interest, purpose, use, effect, etc. [Obs. or R.] An enlightened self-interest, which, when well understood, they tell us will identify with an interest more enlarged and public. Burke. 

IDENTISM:  The doctrine taught by Schelling, that matter and mind, and subject and object, are identical in the Absolute; -- called also the system or doctrine of identity. 

IDENTITY:  An identical equation.  IDEO- I"de*o-  . A combining form from the Gr. idea. 

IDEOGENICAL:  Of or relating to ideology. 

IDEOGENY:  The science which treats of the origin of ideas. 

IDEOGRAPH:  Same as Ideogram.  IDEOGRAPHIC; IDEOGRAPHICAL I`de*o*graph"ic, I`de*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idéographique.]  Of or pertaining to an ideogram; representing ideas by symbols, independently of sounds; as, 9 represents not the word "nine," but the idea of the number itself.  -- I`de*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

IDEOGRAPHICS:  The system of writing in ideographic characters; also, anything so written. 

IDEOGRAPHY:  The representation of ideas independently of sounds, or in an ideographic manner, as sometimes is done in shorthand writing, etc. 

IDEOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to ideology. 

IDEOLOGIST:  One who treats of ideas; one who theorizes or idealizes; one versed in the science of ideas, or who advocates the doctrines of ideology. 

IDEOLOGY:  A theory of the origin of ideas which derives them exclusively from sensation.  Note: By a double blunder in philosophy and Greek, idéologie . . . has in France become the name peculiarly distinctive of that philosophy of mind which exclusively derives our knowledge from sensation. Sir W. Hamilton.  IDEO-MOTION I`de*o-mo"tion, n. (Physiol.)  An ideo-motor movement.  IDEO-MOTOR I`de*o-mo"tor, a. Etym: [Ideo- + motor.] (Physiol.)  Applied to those actions, or muscular movements, which are automatic expressions of dominant ideas, rather than the result of distinct volitional efforts, as the act of expressing the thoughts in speech, or in writing, while the mind is occupied in the composition of the sentence. Carpenter. 

IDES:  The fifteenth day of March, May, July, and October, and the thirteenth day of the other months. The ides of March remember. Shak.  Note: Eight days in each month often pass by this name, but only one strictly receives it, the others being called respectively the day before the ides, and so on, backward, to the eightth from the ides.  IDIO- Id"i*o-  . A combining form from the Greek private, personal, peculiar, distinct. 

IDIOBLAST:  An individual cell, differing greatly from its neighbours in regard to size, structure, or contents. 

IDIOCRASIS:  Idiocracy. 

IDIOCRASY:  Peculiarity of constitution; that temperament, or state of constitution, which is peculiar to a person; idiosyncrasy.  IDIOCRATIC; IDIOCRATICAL Id`i*o*crat"ic, Id`i*o*crat"ic*al, a.  Peculiar in constitution or temperament; idiosyncratic. 

IDIOCY:  The condition or quality of being an idiot; absence, or marked deficiency, of sense and intelligence. I will undertake to convict a man of idiocy, if he can not see the proof that three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles. F. W. Robertson. 

IDIOCYCLOPHANOUS:  Same as Idiophanous. 

IDIOELECTRIC:  Electric by virtue of its own peculiar properties; capable of becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to anelectric.  -- n.  An idioelectric substance. 

IDIOGRAPH:  A mark or signature peculiar to an individual; a trade-mark.  IDIOGRAPHIC; IDIOGRAPHICAL Id`i*o*graph"ic, Id`i*o*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to an idiograph. 

IDIOLATRY:  Self-worship; excessive self-esteem. 

IDIOM:  Of or pertaining to, or conforming to, the mode of expression peculiar to a language; as, an idiomatic meaning; an idiomatic phrase.  -- Id`i*o*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

IDIOMORPHIC:  Idiomorphous. 

IDIOMORPHOUS:  Apperaing in distinct crystals; -- said of the mineral constituents of a rock. 

IDIOMUSCULAR:  Applied to a semipermanent contraction of a muscle, produced by a mechanical irritant. 

IDIOPATHETIC:  Idiopathic. [R.]  IDIOPATHIC; IDIOPATHICAL Id`i*o*path"ic, Id`i*o*path"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. idiopathique.] (Med.)  Pertaining to idiopathy; characterizing a disease arising primarily, and not in consequence of some other disease or injury; -- opposed to symptomatic, sympathetic, and traumatic.  -- Id`i*o*path"ic*al*ly, adv. 

IDIOPATHY:  A morbid state or condition not preceded or occasioned by any other disease; a primary disease. 

IDIOPHANOUS:  Exhibiting interference figures without the aid of a polariscope, as certain crystals. 

IDIOPLASM:  Same as Idioplasma. 

IDIOPLASMA:  That portion of the cell protoplasm which is the seat of all active changes, and which carries on the function of hereditary transmission; -- distinguished from the other portion, which is termed nutritive plasma. See Hygroplasm. 

IDIOREPULSIVE:  Repulsive by itself; as, the idiorepulsive power of heat. 

IDIOSYNCRASY:  A peculiarity of physical or mental constitution or temperament; a characteristic belonging to, and distinguishing, an individual; characteristic susceptibility; idiocrasy; eccentricity. The individual mind . . . takes its tone from the idiosyncrasies of the body. I. Taylor.  IDIOSYNCRATIC; IDIOSYNCRATICAL Id`i*o*syn*crat"ic, Id`i*o*syn*crat"ic*al, a.  Of peculiar temper or disposition; belonging to one's peculiar and individual character. 

IDIOTCY:  Idiocy. [R.] 

IDIOTED:  Rendered idiotic; befooled. [R.] Tennyson. 

IDIOTHERMIC:  Self-heating; warmed, as the body of animal, by process going on within itself.  IDIOTIC; IDIOTICAL Id`i*ot"ic, Id`i*ot"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. idioticus ignorant, Gr. idiotique. See Idiot.]  1. Common; simple. [Obs.] Blackwall.  2. Pertaining to, or like, an idiot; characterized by idiocy; foolish; fatuous; as, an idiotic person, speech, laugh, or action. 

IDIOTICALLY:  In a idiotic manner. 

IDIOTICON:  A dictionary of a peculiar dialect, or of the words and phrases peculiar to one part of a country; a glossary. 

IDIOTISH:  Like an idiot; foolish. 

IDIOTIZE:  To become stupid. [R.] 

IDIOTRY:  Idiocy. [R.] Bp. Warburton. 

IDLE:  To lose or spend time in inaction, or without being employed in business. Shak. 

IDLE:  To spend in idleness; to waste; to consume; -- often followed by away; as, to idle away an hour a day.  IDLE-HEADED I"dle-head`ed, a.  1. Foolish; stupid. [Obs.] "The superstitious idle-headed eld." Shak.  2. Delirious; infatuated. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 

IDLENESS:  The condition or quality of being idle (in the various senses of that word); uselessness; fruitlessness; triviality; inactivity; laziness.  Syn.  -- Inaction; indolence; sluggishness; sloth.  IDLE-PATED I"dle-pat`ed, a.  Idle-headed; stupid. [Obs.] 

IDLER:  One who has constant day duties on board ship, and keeps no regular watch. Totten.  3. (Mach.)  An idle wheel or pulley. See under Idle.  IDLESS; IDLESSE I"dless, I"dlesse, n.  Idleness. [Archaic] "In ydlesse." Spenser. And an idlesse all the day Beside a wandering stream. Mrs. Browning. 

IDLY:  In a idle manner; ineffectually; vainly; lazily; carelessly; (Obs.) foolishly. 

IDO:  An artificial international language, selected by the "Delegation for the Adoption of an Auxillary International Language" (founded at Paris in 1901), made public in 1907, and subsequently greatly revised and extended by a permanent committee or "Academy." It combines systematically the advantages of previous schemes with a thoroughly logical word formation, and has neither accented constants nor arbitrarily coined pronominal words. For each idea that root is selected which is already most international, on the principle of the "greatest facility for the greatest number of people." The word "Ido" means in the language itself "offspring." The official name is: "Linguo Internaciona di la Delegitaro (Sistema Ido)." --I"dism (#), n. -- I"dist (#), n. 

IDOCRASE:  Same as Vesuvianite. 

IDOLASTRE:  An idolater. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

IDOLATRESS:  A female worshiper of idols. 

IDOLATRICAL:  Idolatrous. [Obs.] 

IDOLATRIZE:  To worship idols; to pay idolatrous worship. 

IDOLATRIZE:  To make in idol of; to idolize. 

IDOLATROUSLY:  In a idolatrous manner. 

IDOLISH:  Idolatrous. [Obs.] Milton. 

IDOLISM:  The worship of idols. [Obs.] 

IDOLIST:  A worshiper of idols. [Obs.] Milton. 

IDOLIZE:  To practice idolatry. [R.] To idolize after the manner of Egypt. Fairbairn. 

IDOLIZER:  One who idolizes or loves to the point of reverence; an idolater. 

IDOLOCLAST:  A breaker of idols; an iconoclast. 

IDOLOGRAPHICAL:  Descriptive of idols. [R.] Southey. 

IDOLOUS:  Idolatrous. [Obs.] Bale.  IDOLUM; IDOLON I*do"lum, I*do"lon, n.; pl. Idola (#). [L. See Idol; cf. Eidolon.]  Appearance or image; a phantasm; a spectral image; also, a mental image or idea. 

IDONEOUS:  Appropriate; suitable; proper; fit; adequate. [R.] An ecclesiastical benefice . . . ought to be conferred on an idoneous person. Ayliffe. 

IDORGAN:  A morphological unit, consisting of two or more plastids, which does not possess the positive character of the person or stock, in distinction from the physiological organ or biorgan. See Morphon.  IDRIALINE; IDRIALITE Id"ri*a*line, Id"ri*a*lite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. idrialine.] (Min.)  A bituminous substance obtained from the mercury mines of Idria, where it occurs mixed with cinnabar. 

IDUMEAN:  Of or pertaining to ancient Idumea, or Edom, in Western Asia.  -- n.  An inhabitant of Idumea, an Edomite. 

IDYL:  A short poem; properly, a short pastoral poem; as, the idyls of Theocritus; also, any poem, especially a narrative or descriptive poem, written in an eleveted and highly finished style; also, by extension, any artless and easily flowing description, either in poetry or prose, of simple, rustic life, of pastoral scenes, and the like. [Written also idyll.] Wordsworth's solemn-thoughted idyl. Mrs. Browning. His [Goldsmith's] lovely idyl of the Vicar's home. F. Harrison. 

IDYLLIC:  Of or belonging to idyls.  I. E. I. e.  Abbreviation of Latin id est, that is. 

IF:  . In faith; indeed; truly. Shak. 

IFERE:  Together. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

IGASURIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, nux vomica or St. Ignatius's bean; as, igasuric acid. 

IGASURINE:  An alkaloid found in nux vomica, and extracted as a white crystalline substance. 

IGLOO:  A cavity, or excavation, made in the snow by a seal, over its breathing hole in the ice.  IGNATIUS BEAN Ig*na"tius bean`. (Bot.)  See Saint Ignatius's bean, under Saint. 

IGNEOUS:  Resulting from, or produced by, the action of fire; as, lavas and basalt are igneous rocks. 

IGNESCENT:  Emitting sparks of fire when struck with steel; scintillating; as, ignescent stones. 

IGNICOLIST:  A worshiper of fire. [R.] 

IGNIFEROUS:  Producing fire. [R.] Blount. 

IGNIFLUOUS:  Flowing with fire. [Obs.] Cockerman. 

IGNIFY:  To form into fire. [R.] Stukeley. 

IGNIGENOUS:  Produced by the action of fire, as lava. [R.] 

IGNIPOTENCE:  Power over fire. [R.] 

IGNIPOTENT:  Presiding over fire; also, fiery. Vulcan is called the powerful ignipotent. Pope.  IGNIS FATUUS Ig"nis fat"u*us; pl. Ignes fatui. Etym: [L. ignis fire + fatuus foolish. So called in allusion to its tendency to mislead travelers.]  1. A phosphorescent light that appears, in the night, over marshy ground, supposed to be occasioned by the decomposition of animal or vegetable substances, or by some inflammable gas; -- popularly called also Will-with-the-wisp, or Will-o'-the-wisp, and Jack-with-a- lantern, or Jack-o'-lantern.  2. Fig.: A misleading influence; a decoy. Scared and guided by the ignis fatuus of popular superstition. Jer. Taylor. 

IGNITE:  To subject to the action of intense heat; to heat strongly; -- often said of incombustible or infusible substances; as, to ignite iron or platinum. 

IGNITE:  To take fire; to begin to burn. 

IGNITIBLE:  Capable of being ignited. 

IGNITOR:  One who, or that which, produces ignition; especially, a contrivance for igniting the powder in a torpedo or the like. [Written also igniter.] 

IGNIVOMOUS:  Vomiting fire. [R.] 

IGNOBILITY:  Ignobleness. [Obs.] Bale. 

IGNOBLE:  Not a true or noble falcon; -- said of certain hawks, as the goshawk.  Syn.  -- Degenerate; degraded; mean; base; dishonorable; reproachful; disgraceful; shameful; scandalous; infamous. 

IGNOBLE:  To make ignoble. [Obs.] Bacon. 

IGNOBLENESS:  State or quality of being ignoble. 

IGNOBLY:  In an ignoble manner; basely. 

IGNOMINIOUSLY:  In an ignominious manner; disgracefully; shamefully; ingloriously. 

IGNOMY:  Ignominy. [R. & Obs.] I blush to think upon this ignomy. Shak. 

IGNORAMUS:  We are ignorant; we ignore; -- being the word formerly written on a bill of indictment by a grand jury when there was not sufficient evidence to warrant them in finding it a true bill. The phrase now used is, "No bill," "No true bill," or "Not found," though in some jurisdictions "Ignored" is still used. Wharton (Law Dict. ). Burn.  2. (pl. Ignoramuses (.)  A stupid, ignorant person; a vain pretender to knowledge; a dunce. An ignoramus in place and power. South. 

IGNORANCE:  A willful neglect or refusal to acquire knowledge which one may acquire and it is his duty to have. Book of Common Prayer. Invincible ignorance (Theol.), ignorance beyond the individual's control and for which, therefore, he is not responsible before God. 

IGNORANT:  A person untaught or uninformed; one unlettered or unskilled; an ignoramous. Did I for this take pains to teach Our zealous ignorants to preach Denham. 

IGNORANTISM:  The spirit of those who extol the advantage to ignorance; obscuriantism. 

IGNORANTIST:  One opposed to the diffusion of knowledge; an obscuriantist. 

IGNORANTLY:  In a ignorant manner; without knowledge; inadvertently. Whom therefoer ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you. Acts xvii. 23. 

IGNORE:  To throw out or reject as false or ungrounded; -- said of a bill rejected by a grand jury for want of evidence. See Ignoramus.  3. Hence: To refuse to take notice of; to shut the eyes to; not to recognize; to disregard willfully and causelessly; as, to ignore certain facts; to ignore the presence of an objectionable person. Ignoring Italy under our feet, And seeing things before, behind. Mrs. Browning. 

IGNOSCIBLE:  Pardonable. [Obs.] Bailey. 

IGNOTE:  Unknown. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.  -- n.  One who is unknown. Bp. Hacket. 

IGUANA:  Any species of the genus Iguana, a genus of large American lizards of the family Iguanidæ. They are arboreal in their habits, usually green in color, and feed chiefly upon fruits.  Note: The common iguana (I. tuberculata) of the West Indies and South America is sometimes five feet long. Its flesh is highly prized as food. The horned iguana (I. cornuta) has a conical horn between the eyes. 

IGUANIAN:  Resembling, or pertaining to, the iguana. 

IGUANID:  Same as Iguanoid. 

IGUANODON:  A genus of gigantic herbivorous dinosaurs having a birdlike pelvis and large hind legs with three-toed feet capable of supporting the entire body. Its teeth resemble those of the iguana, whence its name. Several species are known, mostly from the Wealden of England and Europe. See Illustration in Appendix. 

IGUANODONT:  Like or pertaining to the genus Iguanodon. 

IGUANOID:  Pertaining to the Iguanidæ.  IHLANG-IHLANG Ih*lang`-ih*lang", n. Etym: [Malayan, flower of flowers.]  A rich, powerful, perfume, obtained from the volatile oil of the flowers of Canada odorata, an East Indian tree. [Also written ylang-ylang.] 

IHRAM:  The peculiar dress worn by pilgrims to Mecca. 

IHVH:  A transliteration of the four constants forming the Hebrew tetragrammaton or "incommunicable name" of the Supreme Being, which in latter Jewish tradition is not pronounced save with the vowels of adonai or elohim, so that the true pronunciation is lost.   Numerous attempts have been made to represent the supposed original form of the word, as Jahaveh, Jahvaj, Jahve, Jahveh, Yahve, Yahveh, Yahwe, Yahweh, etc. 

IK:  I [Obs.] Piers Plowman.  Note: The Northern dialectic form of I, in Early English, corresponding to ich of the Southern.  IL- Il-  . A form of the prefix in-, not, and in-, among. See In-. 

ILE:  Ear of corn. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

ILE:  An aisle. [Obs.] H. Swinburne. 

ILE:  An isle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ILEAC:  Pertaining to the ileum. [Written also iliac.]  2. See Iliac,  1. [R.] Ileac passion. (Med.) See Ileus. 

ILEOCAECAL:  Pertaining to the ileum and cæcum. 

ILEOCOLIC:  Pertaining to the ileum and colon; as, the ileocolic, or ileocæcal, valve, a valve where the ileum opens into the large intestine. 

ILEUM:  The last, and usually the longest, division of the small intestine; the part between the jejunum and large intestine. [Written also ileon, and ilium.]  2. (Anat.)  See Ilium. [R.]  Note: Most modern writers restrict ileum to the division of the intestine and ilium to the pelvic bone. 

ILEUS:  A morbid condition due to intestinal obstruction. It is characterized by complete constipation, with griping pains in the abdomen, which is greatly distended, and in the later stages by vomiting of fecal matter. Called also ileac, or iliac, passion. 

ILIAC:  Pertaining to ancient Ilium, or Troy. Gladstone. 

ILIAC:  Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ilium, or dorsal bone of the pelvis; as, the iliac artery. [Written also ileac.]  2. See Ileac, 1. [R.] Iliac crest, the upper margin of the ilium.  -- Iliac passion. See Ileus.  -- Iliac region, a region of the abdomen, on either side of the hypogastric regions, and below the lumbar regions. 

ILIACAL:  Iliac. [R.] 

ILIAD:  A celebrated Greek epic poem, in twenty-four books, on the destruction of Ilium, the ancient Troy. The Iliad is ascribed to Homer. 

ILIAL:  Pertaining to the ilium; iliac. 

ILICHE:  Alike. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ILICIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the holly (Ilex), and allied plants; as, ilicic acid. 

ILICIN:  The bitter principle of the holly.  ILIO- Il"i*o-. Etym: [From Ilium.]  A combining form used in anatomy to denote connection with, or relation to, the ilium; as, ilio-femoral, ilio-lumbar, ilio-psoas, etc. 

ILIOFEMORAL:  Pertaining to the ilium and femur; as, iliofemoral ligaments. 

ILIOLUMBAR:  Pertaining to the iliac and lumbar regions; as, the iliolumbar artery. 

ILIOPSOAS:  The great flexor muscle of the hip joint, divisible into two parts, the iliac and great psoas, -- often regarded as distinct muscles. 

ILIUM:  The dorsal one of the three principal bones comprising either lateral half of the pelvis; the dorsal or upper part of the hip bone. See Innominate bone, under Innominate. [Written also ilion, and ileum.] 

ILIXANTHIN:  A yellow dye obtained from the leaves of the holly. 

ILK:  Same; each; every. [Archaic] Spenser. Of that ilk, denoting that a person's surname and the title of his estate are the same; as, Grant of that ilk, i.e., Grant of Grant. Jamieson. 

ILKE:  Same. [Obs.] Chaucer.  ILKON; ILKOON Il*kon", Il*koon", pron. Etym: [See Ilk, and One.]  Each one; every one. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ILL:  In a ill manner; badly; weakly. How ill this taper burns! Shak. Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth accumulates and men decay. Goldsmith.  Note: Ill, like above, well, and so, is used before many participal adjectives, in its usual adverbal sense. When the two words are used as an epithet preceding the noun qualified they are commonly hyphened; in other cases they are written separatively; as, an ill- educated man; he was ill educated; an ill-formed plan; the plan, however ill formed, was acceptable. Ao, also, the following: ill- affected or ill affected, ill-arranged or ill arranged, ill-assorted or ill assorted, ill-boding or ill boding, ill-bred or ill bred, ill- conditioned, ill-conducted, ill-considered, ill-devised, ill- disposed, ill-doing, ill-fairing, ill-fated, ill-favored, ill- featured, ill-formed, ill-gotten, ill-imagined, ill-judged, ill- looking, ill-mannered, ill-matched, ill-meaning, ill-minded, ill- natured, ill-omened, ill-proportioned, ill-provided, ill-required, ill-sorted, ill-starred, ill-tempered, ill-timed, ill-trained, ill- used, and the like.  I' LL I' ll  . Contraction for I will or I shall. I'll by a sign give notice to our friends. Shak. 

ILLABILE:  Incapable of falling or erring; infalliable. [Obs.] -- Il`la*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.] 

ILLACERABLE:  Not lacerable; incapable of being torn or rent. [Obs.] 

ILLACRYMABLE:  Incapable of weeping. [Obs.] Bailey. 

ILLAPSABLE:  Incapable of slipping, or of error. [R.] Morally immutable and illapsable. Glanvill. 

ILLAPSE:  To fall or glide; to pass; -- usually followed by into. Cheyne. 

ILLAPSE:  A gliding in; an immisson or entrance of one thing into another; also, a sudden descent or attack. Akenside. They sit silent . . . waiting for an illapse of the spirit. Jeffrey. 

ILLAQUEABLE:  Capable of being insnared or entrapped. [R.] Cudworth. 

ILLAQUEATE:  To insnare; to entrap; to entangle; to catch. Let not the surpassing eloquence of Taylor dazzle you, nor his scholastic retairy versatility of logic illaqueate your good sense. Coleridge. 

ILLATION:  The act or process of inferring from premises or reasons; perception of the connection between ideas; that which is inferred; inference; deduction; conclusion. Fraudulent deductions or inconsequent illations from a false conception of things. Sir T. Browne. 

ILLATIVE:  Relating to, dependent on, or denoting, illation; inferential; conclusive; as, an illative consequence or proposition; an illative word, as then, therefore, etc. Illative conversion (Logic), a converse or reverse statement of a proposition which in that form must be true because the original proposition is true.  -- Illative sense (Metaph.), the faculty of the mind by which it apprehends the conditions and determines upon the correctness of inferences. 

ILLATIVE:  An illative particle, as for, because. 

ILLATIVELY:  By inference; as an illative; in an illative manner. 

ILLAUDABLE:  Not laudable; not praise-worthy; worthy of censure or disapprobation. Milton.  -- Il*laud"a*bly, adv. [Obs.] Broome.  ILL-BODING Ill`-bod"ing, a.  Boding evil; inauspicious; ill-omened. "Ill-boding stars." Shak.  ILL-BRED Ill"-bred`, a.  Badly educated or brought up; impolite; incivil; rude. See Note under Ill, adv. 

ILLECEBRATION:  Allurement. [R.] T. Brown. 

ILLECEBROUS:  Alluring; attractive; enticing. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

ILLEGAL:  Not according to, or authorized by, law; specif., contrary to, or in violation of, human law; unlawful; illicit; hence, immoral; as, an illegal act; illegal trade; illegal love. Bp. Burnet. 

ILLEGALITY:  The quality or condition of being illegal; unlawfulness; as, the illegality of trespass or of false imprisonment; also, an illegal act. 

ILLEGALIZE:  To make or declare illegal or unlawful. 

ILLEGALLY:  In a illegal manner; unlawfully. 

ILLEGALNESS:  Illegality, unlawfulness. 

ILLEGIBILITY:  The state or quality of being illegible. 

ILLEGIBLE:  Incapable of being read; not legible; as, illegible handwriting; an illegible inscription.  -- Il*leg"i*ble*ness, n.  -- Il*leg"i*bly, adv. 

ILLEGITIMACY:  The state of being illegitimate. Blackstone. 

ILLEGITIMATE:  To render illegitimate; to declare or prove to be born out of wedlock; to bastardize; to illegitimatize. The marriage should only be dissolved for the future, without illegitimating the issue. Bp. Burnet. 

ILLEGITIMATELY:  In a illegitimate manner; unlawfully. 

ILLEGITIMATIZE:  To render illegitimate; to bastardize. 

ILLESIVE:  Not injurious; harmless. [R.] 

ILLEVIABLE:  Not leviable; incapable of being imposed, or collected. [R.] Sir M. Hale.  ILL-FAVORED Ill`-fa"vored, a.  Wanting beauty or attractiveness; deformed; ugly; ill-looking. Ill-favored and lean-fleshed. Gen. xli. 3. -- Ill`-fa"vored*ly, adv.  -- Ill`-fa"vored*ness, n. 

ILLIBERALISM:  Illiberality. [R.] 

ILLIBERALITY:  The state or quality of being illiberal; narrowness of mind; meanness; niggardliness. Bacon. 

ILLIBERALIZE:  To make illiberal. 

ILLIBERALLY:  In a illiberal manner, ungenerously; uncharitably; parsimoniously. 

ILLIBERALNESS:  The state of being illiberal; illiberality. 

ILLICIT:  Not permitted or allowed; prohibited; unlawful; as, illicit trade; illicit intercourse; illicit pleasure. One illicit . . . transaction always leads to another. Burke. -- Il*lic"it*ly, adv.  -- Il*lic"it*ness, n. 

ILLICITOUS:  Illicit. [R.] Cotgrave. 

ILLICIUM:  A genus of Asiatic and American magnoliaceous trees, having star-shaped fruit; star anise. The fruit of Illicium anisatum is used as a spice in India, and its oil is largely used in Europe for flavoring cordials, being almost identical with true oil of anise. 

ILLIGHTEN:  To enlighten. [Obs.] 

ILLIMITABLE:  Incapable of being limited or bounded; immeasurable; limitless; boundless; as, illimitable space. The wild, the irregular, the illimitable, and the luxuriant, have their appropriate force of beauty. De Quincey.  Syn.  -- Boundless; limitless; unlimited; unbounded; immeasurable; infinite; immense; vast.  -- Il*lim"it*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Il*lim"it*a*bly, adv. 

ILLIMITATION:  State of being illimitable; want of, or freedom from, limitation. Bp. Hall. 

ILLIMITED:  Not limited; interminable. Bp. Hall.  -- Il*lim"it*ed*ness, n. The absoluteness and illimitedness of his commission was generally much spoken of. Clarendon. 

ILLINOIS:  A tribe of North American Indians, which formerly occupied the region between the Wabash and Mississippi rivers. 

ILLIQUATION:  The melting or dissolving of one thing into another. 

ILLISH:  Somewhat ill. [Obs.] Howell. 

ILLISION:  The act of dashing or striking against. Sir T. Browne. 

ILLITERAL:  Not literal. [R.] B. Dawson. 

ILLITERATE:  Ignorant of letters or books; unlettered; uninstructed; uneducated; as, an illiterate man, or people.  Syn.  -- Ignorant; untaught; unlearned; unlettered; unscholary. See Ignorant.  -- Il*lit"er*ate*ly, adv.  -- Il*lit"er*ate*ness, n. 

ILLITERATURE:  Want of learning; illiteracy. [R.] Ayliffe. Southey.  ILL-JUDGED Ill"-judged`, a.  Not well judged; unwise.  ILL-LIVED Ill"-lived`, a.  Leading a wicked life. [Obs.]  ILL-LOOKING Ill"-look`ing, a.  Having a bad look; threatening; ugly. See Note under Ill, adv.  ILL-MANNERED Ill`-man"nered, a.  Impolite; rude.  ILL-MINDED Ill"-mind`ed, a.  Ill-disposed. Byron.  ILL-NATURED Ill`-na"tured, a.  1. Of habitual bad temper; peevish; fractious; cross; crabbed; surly; as, an ill-natured person.  2. Dictated by, or indicating, ill nature; spiteful. "The ill-natured task refuse." Addison.  3. Intractable; not yielding to culture. [R.] "Ill-natured land." J. Philips.  -- Ill`-na"tured*ly, adv.  -- Ill`-na"tured*ness, n. 

ILLNESS:  Ill-bred. Shak. 

ILLOCALITY:  Want of locality or place. [R.] Cudworth. 

ILLOGICAL:  Ignorant or negligent of the rules of logic or correct reasoning; as, an illogical disputant; contrary of the rules of logic or sound reasoning; as, an illogical inference.  -- Il*log"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Il*log"ic*al*ness, n.  ILL-OMENED Ill`-o"mened, a.  Having unlucky omens; inauspicious. See Note under Ill, adv.  ILL-STARRED Ill"-starred`, a.  Fated to be unfortunate; unlucky; as, an ill-starred man or day.  ILL-TEMPERED Ill`-tem"pered, a.  1. Of bad temper; morose; crabbed; sour; peevish; fretful; quarrelsome.  2. Unhealthy; ill-conditioned. [Obs.] So ill-tempered I am grown, that I am afraid I shall catch cold, while all the world is afraid to melt away. Pepys.  ILL-TIMED Ill"-timed`, a.  Done, attempted, or said, at an unsuitable or unpropitious time. 

ILLTREAT:  To treat cruelly or improperly; to ill use; to maltreat. 

ILLUDE:  To play upon by artifice; to deceive; to mock; to excite and disappoint the hopes of. 

ILLUME:  To throw or spread light upon; to make light or bright; to illuminate; to illumine. Shak. The mountain's brow, Illumed with fluid gold. Thomson. 

ILLUMINABLE:  Capable of being illuminated. 

ILLUMINANT:  That which illuminates or affords light; as, gas and petroleum are illuminants. Boyle. 

ILLUMINARY:  Illuminative. 

ILLUMINATE:  To light up in token or rejoicing. 

ILLUMINATE:  Enlightened. Bp. Hall. 

ILLUMINATE:  One who enlightened; esp., a pretender to extraordinary light and knowledge. 

ILLUMINATI:  Literally, those who are enlightened; -- variously applied as follows: -  1. (Eccl.)  Persons in the early church who had received baptism; in which ceremony a lighted taper was given them, as a symbol of the spiritual illumination they has received by that sacrament.  2. (Eccl. Hist.)  Members of a sect which sprung up in Spain about the year 1575. Their principal doctrine was, that, by means of prayer, they had attained to so perfect a state as to have no need of ordinances, sacraments, good works, etc.; -- called also Alumbrados, Perfectibilists, etc.  3. (Mod. Hist.)  Members of certain associations in Modern Europe, who combined to promote social reforms, by which they expected to raise men and society to perfection, esp. of one originated in 1776 by Adam Weishaupt, professor of canon law at Ingolstadt, which spread rapidly for a time, but ceased after a few years.  4. Also applied to: (a) An obscure sect of French Familists. (b) The Hesychasts, Mystics, and Quietists; (c) The Rosicrucians.  5. Any persons who profess special spiritual or intellectual enlightenment. 

ILLUMINATING:  Giving or producing light; used for illumination. Illuminating gas. See Gas, n., 2 (a). 

ILLUMINATION:  The special communication of knowledge to the mind by God; inspiration. Hymns and psalms . . . are framed by meditation beforehand, or by prophetical illumination are inspired. Hooker. 

ILLUMINATISM:  Illuminism. [R.] 

ILLUMINATIVE:  Tending to illuminate or illustrate; throwing light; illustrative. "Illuminative reading." Carlyle. 

ILLUMINE:  To illuminate; to light up; to adorn. 

ILLUMINEE:  One of the Illuminati. 

ILLUMINER:  One who, or that which, illuminates. 

ILLUMINISM:  The principles of the Illuminati. 

ILLUMINISTIC:  Of or pertaining to illuminism, or the Illuminati. 

ILLUMINIZE:  To initiate the doctrines or principles of the Illuminati. 

ILLUMINOUS:  Bright; clear. [R.] H. Taylor. 

ILLURE:  To deceive; to entice; to lure. [Obs.] The devil insnareth the souls of many men, by illuring them with the muck and dung of this world. Fuller.  ILL-USED Ill`-used", a.  Misapplied; treated badly. 

ILLUSION:  A sensation originated by some external object, but so modified as in any way to lead to an erroneous perception; as when the rolling of a wagon is mistaken for thunder.  Note: Some modern writers distinguish between an illusion and hallucination, regarding the former as originating with some external object, and the latter as having no objective occasion whatever.  4. A plain, delicate lace, usually of silk, used for veils, scarfs, dresses, etc.  Syn.  -- Delusion; mockery; deception; chimera; fallacy. See Delusion. Illusion, Delusion. Illusion refers particularly to errors of the sense; delusion to false hopes or deceptions of the mind. An optical deception is an illusion; a false opinion is a delusion. E. Edwards. 

ILLUSIONABLE:  Liable to illusion. 

ILLUSIONIST:  One given to illusion; a visionary dreamer. 

ILLUSIVE:  Deceiving by false show; deceitful; deceptive; false; illusory; unreal. Truth from illusive falsehood to command. Thomson. 

ILLUSIVELY:  In a illusive manner; falsely. 

ILLUSIVENESS:  The quality of being illusive; deceptiveness; false show. 

ILLUSORY:  Deceiving, or tending of deceive; fallacious; illusive; as, illusory promises or hopes. 

ILLUSTRABLE:  Capable of illustration. Sir T. Browne. 

ILLUSTRATE:  Illustrated; distinguished; illustrious. [Obs.] This most gallant, illustrate, and learned gentleman. Shak. 

ILLUSTRATIVELY:  By way of illustration or elucidation. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

ILLUSTRATOR:  One who illustrates. 

ILLUSTRATORY:  Serving to illustrate. 

ILLUSTRIOUSLY:  In a illustrious manner; conspicuously; eminently; famously. Milton. 

ILLUSTRIOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being eminent; greatness; grandeur; glory; fame. 

ILLUSTROUS:  Without luster. [Obs. & R.] 

ILLUTATION:  The act or operation of smearing the body with mud, especially with the sediment from mineral springs; a mud bath. 

ILLUXURIOUS:  Not luxurious. [R.] Orrery.  ILL-WILL Ill`-will"  . See under Ill, a.  ILL-WISHER Ill`-wish"er, n.  One who wishes ill to another; an enemy. 

ILLY:  Etym: [A word not fully approved, but sometimes used for the adverb ill.] 

ILMENITE:  Titanic iron. See Menaccanite. 

ILMENIUM:  A supposed element claimed to have been discovered by R.Harmann. 

ILVAITE:  A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals and columnar masses.  I'M I'm  . A contraction of I am.  IM- Im-  . A form of the prefix in- not, and in- in. See In-. Im- also occurs in composition with some words not of Latin origin; as, imbank, imbitter. 

IMAGE:  A picture, example, or illustration, often taken from sensible objects, and used to illustrate a subject; usually, an extended metaphor. Brande & C.  6. (Opt.)  The figure or picture of any object formed at the focus of a lens or mirror, by rays of light from the several points of the object symmetrically refracted or reflected to corresponding points in such focus; this may be received on a screen, a photographic plate, or the retina of the eye, and viewed directly by the eye, or with an eyeglass, as in the telescope and microscope; the likeness of an object formed by reflection; as, to see one's image in a mirror. Electrical image. See under Electrical.  -- Image breaker, one who destroys images; an iconoclast.  -- Image graver, Image maker, a sculptor.  -- Image worship, the worship of images as symbols; iconolatry distinguished from idolatry; the worship of images themselves.  -- Image Purkinje (Physics), the image of the retinal blood vessels projected in, not merely on, that membrane.  -- Virtual image (Optics), a point or system of points, on one side of a mirror or lens, which, if it existed, would emit the system of rays which actually exists on the other side of the mirror or lens. Clerk Maxwell. 

IMAGEABLE:  That may be imaged. [R.] 

IMAGELESS:  Having no image. Shelley. 

IMAGER:  One who images or forms likenesses; a sculptor. [Obs.] Praxiteles was ennobled for a rare imager. Holland. 

IMAGINABILITY:  Capacity for imagination. [R.] Coleridge. 

IMAGINABLE:  Capable of being imagined; conceivable. Men sunk into the greatest darkness imaginable. Tillotson. -- Im*ag"i*na*ble*ness, n.  -- Im*ag"i*na*bly, adv. 

IMAGINAL:  Of or pertaining to an imago. Imaginal disks (Zoöl.), masses of hypodermic cells, carried by the larvæ of some insects after leaving the egg, from which masses the wings and legs of the adult are subsequently formed. 

IMAGINANT:  Imagining; conceiving. [Obs.] Bacon.  -- n.  An imaginer. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

IMAGINARILY:  In a imaginary manner; in imagination. B. Jonson. 

IMAGINARINESS:  The state or quality of being imaginary; unreality. 

IMAGINARY:  Existing only in imagination or fancy; not real; fancied; visionary; ideal. Wilt thou add to all the griefs I suffer Imaginary ills and fancied tortures Addison. Imaginary calculus See under Calculus.  -- Imaginary expression or quantity (Alg.), an algebraic expression which involves the impossible operation of taking the square root of a negative quantity; as, sq. root-9, a + b sq. root-1.  -- Imaginary points, lines, surfaces, etc. (Geom.), points, lines, surfaces, etc., imagined to exist, although by reason of certain changes of a figure they have in fact ceased to have a real existence.  Syn.  -- Ideal; fanciful; chimerical; visionary; fancied; unreal; illusive. 

IMAGINARY:  An imaginary expression or quantity. 

IMAGINATE:  Imaginative. [Obs.] Holland. 

IMAGINATIONAL:  Pertaining to, involving, or caused by, imagination. 

IMAGINATIONALISM:  Idealism. J. Grote. 

IMAGINER:  One who forms ideas or conceptions; one who contrives. Bacon. 

IMAGINOUS:  Imaginative. [R.] Chapman. 

IMAGO:  The final adult, and usually winged, state of an insect. See Illust. of Ant-lion, and Army worm.  IMAM; IMAN; IMAUM I*mam", I*man", I*maum", n. Etym: [Ar. imam.]  1. Among the Mohammedans, a minister or priest who performs the regular service of the mosque.  2. A Mohammedan prince who, as a successor of Mohammed, unites in his person supreme spiritual and temporal power. 

IMARET:  A lodging house for Mohammedan pilgrims. Moore. 

IMBALM:  See Embalm. 

IMBAN:  To put under a ban. [R.] Barlow. 

IMBAND:  To form into a band or bands. "Imbanded nations." J. Barlow. 

IMBANK:  To inclose or defend with a bank or banks. See Embank. 

IMBANKMENT:  The act of surrounding with a bank; a bank or mound raised for defense, a roadway, etc.; an embankment. See Embankment. 

IMBANNERED:  Having banners. 

IMBAR:  To bar in; to secure. [Obs.] To imbar their crooked titles. Shak. 

IMBARGO:  See Embargo. 

IMBARK:  See Embark. 

IMBARN:  To store in a barn. [Obs.] 

IMBASE:  See Embase. 

IMBASE:  To diminish in value. [Obs.] Hales. 

IMBASTARDIZE:  To bastardize; to debase. [Obs.] Milton. 

IMBATHE:  To bathe; to wash freely; to immerce. And gave her to his daughters to imbathe In nectared lavers strewed with asphodel. Milton. 

IMBAY:  See Embay. 

IMBECILE:  Destitute of strength, whether of body or mind; feeble; impotent; esp., mentally wea; feeble-minded; as, hospitals for the imbecile and insane.  Syn.  -- Weak; feeble; feeble-minded; idiotic. 

IMBECILE:  One destitute of strength; esp., one of feeble mind. 

IMBECILE:  To weaken; to make imbecile; as, to imbecile men's courage. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

IMBECILITATE:  To weaken, as to the body or the mind; to enfeeble. [R.] A. Wilson. 

IMBECILITY:  The quality of being imbecile; weakness; feebleness, esp. of mind. Cruelty . . . argues not only a depravedness of nature, but also a meanness of courage and imbecility of mind. Sir W. Temple.  Note: This term is used specifically to denote natural weakness of the mental faculties, affecting one's power to act reasonably or intelligently.  Syn.  -- Debility; infirmity; weakness; feebleness; impotence. See Debility. 

IMBED:  To sink or lay, as in a bed; to deposit in a partly inclosing mass, as of clay or mortar; to cover, as with earth, sand, etc. 

IMBELLIC:  Not warlike or martial. [Obs.] R. Junius. 

IMBENCHING:  A raised work like a bench. [Obs.] Parkhurst.  IMBER-GOOSE Im"ber-goose`, n. (Zoöl.)  The loon. See Ember-goose. 

IMBEZZLE:  See Embezzle. 

IMBIBER:  One who, or that which, imbibes. 

IMBIBITION:  The act or process of imbibing, or absorbing; as, the post- mortem imbibition of poisons. Bacon. 

IMBITTER:  To make bitter; hence, to make distressing or more distressing; to make sad, morose, sour, or malignant. Is there anything that more imbitters the enjoyment of this life than shame South. Imbittered against each other by former contests. Bancroft. 

IMBITTERER:  One who, or that which, imbitters. 

IMBITTERMENT:  The act of imbittering; bitter feeling; embitterment. 

IMBLAZE:  See Emblaze. 

IMBLAZON:  See Emblazon. 

IMBODY:  To become corporeal; to assume the qualities of a material body. See Embody. The soul grows clotted by contagion, Imbodies, and imbrutes. Milton. 

IMBOIL:  See Emboil. 

IMBOLDEN:  See Embolden. 

IMBONITY:  Want of goodness. [Obs.] Burton. 

IMBORDER:  To furnish or inclose with a border; to form a border of. Milton. 

IMBOSK:  To conceal, as in bushes; to hide. [Obs.] Shelton. 

IMBOSK:  To be concealed. [R.] Milton. 

IMBOSS:  See Emboss. 

IMBOSTURE:  Embossed or raised work. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

IMBOUND:  To inclose in limits; to shut in. [Obs.] Shak. 

IMBOW:  To make like a bow; to curve; to arch; to vault; to embow. "Imbowed windows." Bacon. 

IMBOWEL:  See Embowel. 

IMBOWER:  See Embower. 

IMBOWMENT:  act of imbowing; an arch; a vault. Bacon. 

IMBOX:  To inclose in a box. 

IMBRACERY:  Embracery. [Obs.] 

IMBRAID:  See Embraid. 

IMBRANGLE:  To entangle as in a cobweb; to mix confusedly. [R.] Hudibras. Physiology imbrangled with an inapplicable logic. Coleridge. 

IMBREED:  To generate within; to inbreed. [Obs.] Hakewill.  IMBRICATE; IMBRICATED Im"bri*cate, Im"bri*ca`ted, a. Etym: [L. imbricatus, p.p. of imbricare to cover with tiles, to form like a gutter tile, fr. imbrex, -icis, a hollow tile, gutter tile, fr. imber rain.]  1. Bent and hollowed like a roof or gutter tile.  2. Lying over each other in regular order, so as to "break joints," like tiles or shingles on a roof, the scales on the leaf buds of plants and the cups of some acorns, or the scales of fishes; overlapping each other at the margins, as leaves in æstivation.  3. In decorative art: Having scales lapping one over the other, or a representation of such scales; as, an imbricated surface; an imbricated pattern. 

IMBRICATE:  To lay in order, one lapping over another, so as to form an imbricated surface. 

IMBRICATION:  An overlapping of the edges, like that of tiles or shingles; hence, intricacy of structure; also, a pattern or decoration representing such a structure. 

IMBRICATIVE:  Imbricate. 

IMBROCADO:  Cloth of silver or of gold. [R.]  IMBROCATA; IMBROCCATA Im`bro*ca"ta, Im`broc*ca"ta, n. Etym: [It. imbroccata.]  A hit or thrust. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

IMBROWN:  To make brown; to obscure; to darken; to tan; as, features imbrowned by exposure. The mountain mass by scorching skies imbrowned. Byron. 

IMBRUE:  To wet or moisten; to soak; to drench, especially in blood. While Darwen stream, will blood of Scots imbrued. Milton. 

IMBRUEMENT:  The act of imbruing or state of being imbrued. 

IMBRUTE:  To degrade to the state of a brute; to make brutal. And mixed with bestial slime, This essence to incarnate and imbrute. Milton. 

IMBRUTE:  To sink to the state of a brute. The soul grows clotted by contagion, Imbodies, and imbrutes, till she quite lose The divine property of her first being. Milton. 

IMBRUTEMENT:  The act of imbruting, or the state of being imbruted. [R.] Brydges. 

IMBUEMENT:  The act of imbuing; the state of being imbued; hence, a deep tincture. 

IMBURSE:  To supply or stock with money. [Obs.] 

IMBUTION:  An imbuing. [Obs.] 

IMESATIN:  A dark yellow, crystalline substance, obtained by the action of ammonia on isatin. 

IMIDE:  A compound with, or derivative of, the imido group; specif., a compound of one or more acid radicals with the imido group, or with a monamine; hence, also, a derivative of ammonia, in which two atoms of hydrogen have been replaced by divalent basic or acid radicals; -- frequently used as a combining form; as, succinimide. 

IMIDO:  Pertaining to, containing, or combined with, the radical NH, which is called the imido group. Imido acid, an organic acid, consisting of one or more acid radicals so united with the imido group that it contains replaceable acid hydrogen, and plays the part of an acid; as, uric acid, succinimide, etc., are imido acids. 

IMITABILITY:  The quality of being imitable. Norris. 

IMITABLENESS:  The state or quality of being imitable; worthness of imitation. 

IMITANCY:  Tendency to imitation. [R.] Carlyle. 

IMITATE:  To resemble (another species of animal, or a plant, or inanimate object) in form, color, ornamentation, or instinctive habits, so as to derive an advantage thereby; sa, when a harmless snake imitates a venomous one in color and manner, or when an odorless insect imitates, in color, one having secretion offensive to birds. 

IMITATION:  One of the principal means of securing unity and consistency in polyphonic composition; the repetition of essentially the same melodic theme, phrase, or motive, on different degrees of pitch, by one or more of the other parts of voises. Cf. Canon.  4. (Biol.)  The act of condition of imitating another species of animal, or a plant, or unanimate object. See Imitate, v. t., 3.  Note: Imitation is often used adjectively to characterize things which have a deceptive appearance, simulating the qualities of a superior article; -- opposed to real or genuine; as, imitation lace; imitation bronze; imitation modesty, etc. 

IMITATIONAL:  Pertaining to, or employed in, imitation; as, imitational propensities. 

IMITATIVE:  Designed to imitate another species of animal, or a plant, or inanimate object, for some useful purpose, such as protection from enemies; having resamblance to something else; as, imitative colors; imitative habits; dendritic and mammillary forms of minerals are imitative.  -- Im"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.  -- Im"i*ta*tive*ness, n. 

IMITATIVE:  A verb expressive of imitation or resemblance. [R.] 

IMITATOR:  One who imitates. 

IMITATORSHIP:  The state or office of an imitator. "Servile imitatorship." Marston. 

IMITATRESS:  A woman who is an imitator. 

IMITATRIX:  An imitatress. 

IMMACULATE:  Without stain or blemish; spotless; undefiled; clear; pure. Were but my soul as pure From other guilt as that, Heaven did not hold One more immaculate. Denham. Thou sheer, immaculate and silver fountain. Shak. Immaculate conception (R. C. Ch.), the doctrine that the Virgin Mary was conceived without original sin.  -- Im*mac"u*late*ly, adv.  -- Im*mac"u*late*ness, n. 

IMMAILED:  Wearing mail or armor; clad of armor. W. Browne. 

IMMALLEABLE:  Not maleable. 

IMMANACLE:  To manacle; to fetter; hence; to confine; to restrain from free action. Although this corporal rind Thou hast immanacled. Milton. 

IMMANATION:  A flowing or entering in; -- opposed to emanation. [R.] Good. 

IMMANE:  Very great; huge; vast; also, monstrous in character; inhuman; atrocious; fierce. [Obs.] "So immane a man." Chapman.  -- Im*mane"ly, adv. [Obs.]  IMMANENCE; IMMANENCY Im"ma*nence, Im"ma*nen*cy, n.  The condition or quality of being immanent; inherence; an indwelling. [Clement] is mainly concerned in enforcing the immanence of God. Christ is everywhere presented by him as Deity indwelling in the world. A. V. G. Allen. 

IMMANENT:  Remaining within; inherent; indwelling; abiding; intrinsic; internal or subjective; hence, limited in activity, agency, or effect, to the subject or associated acts; -- opposed to emanant, transitory, transitive, or objective. A cognition is an immanent act of mind. Sir W. Hamilton. An immanent power in the life of the world. Hare. 

IMMANIFEST:  Not manifest. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

IMMANITY:  The state or quality of being immane; barbarity. [R.] Shak. 

IMMANTLE:  See Emmantle. [R.] 

IMMANUEL:  God with us; -- an appellation of the Christ. Is. vii. 14. Matt. i. 23. 

IMMARCESCIBLE:  Unfading; lasting. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

IMMARCESCIBLY:  Unfadingly. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

IMMARGINATE:  Not having a distinctive margin or border. Grey. 

IMMARTIAL:  Not martial; unwarlike. [Obs.] 

IMMASK:  To cover, as with a mask; to disguise or conceal. [R.] Shak. 

IMMATCHABLE:  Matchless; peerless. [Obs.] Holland. 

IMMATERIALISM:  The doctrine that external bodies may be reduced to mind and ideas in a mind; any doctrine opposed to materialism or phenomenalism, esp. a system that maintains the immateriality of the soul; idealism; esp., Bishop Berkeley's theory of idealism. 

IMMATERIALIST:  One who believes in or professes, immaterialism. 

IMMATERIALITY:  The state or quality of being immaterial or incorporeal; as, the immateriality of the soul. 

IMMATERIALIZE:  To render immaterial or incorporeal. Immateralized spirits. Glanvill. 

IMMATERIALNESS:  The state or quality of being immaterial; immateriality. 

IMMATERIATE:  Immaterial. [Obs.] Bacon. 

IMMATURED:  Immature. 

IMMATURELY:  In an immature manner. Warburion. 

IMMATURENESS:  The state or quality of being immature; immaturity. Boyle. 

IMMATURITY:  The state or quality of being immature or not fully developed; unripeness; incompleteness. When the world has outgrown its intellectual immaturity. Caird. 

IMMEABILITY:  Want of power to pass, or to permit passage; impassableness. Immeability of the juices. Arbuthnot. 

IMMEASURABILITY:  The quality of being immeasurable; immensurability. 

IMMEASURABLE:  Incapble of being measured; indefinitely extensive; illimitable; immensurable; vast. Of depth immeasurable. Milton. 

IMMEASURABLENESS:  The state or quality of being immeasurable. Eternity and immeasurableness belong to thought alone. F. W. Robertson. 

IMMEASURABLY:  In an immeasurable manner or degree. "Immeasurably distant." Wordsworth. 

IMMEASURED:  Immeasurable. [R.] Spenser. 

IMMECHANICAL:  Not mechanical. [Obs.] Cheyne.  -- Im"me*chan"ic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

IMMEDIACY:  The relation of freedom from the interventionof a medium; immediateness. Shak. 

IMMEDIATENESS:  The quality or relations of being immediate in manner, place, or time; exemption from second or interventing causes. Bp. Hall. 

IMMEDIATISM:  Immediateness. 

IMMEDICABLE:  Not to be healed; incurable. "Wounds immedicable." Milton. 

IMMELODIOUS:  Not melodious. 

IMMEMORABLE:  Not memorable; not worth remembering. Johnson. 

IMMEMORIAL:  Extending beyond the reach of memory, record, or tradition; indefinitely ancient; as, existing from time immemorial. "Immemorial elms." Tennyson. "Immemorial usage or custom." Sir M. Hale. Time immemorial (Eng. Law.), a time antedating (legal) history, and beyond "legal memory" so called; formerly an indefinite time, but in 1276 this time was fixed by statute as the begining of the reign of Richard I. (1189). Proof of unbroken possession or use of any right since that date made it unnecessary to establish the original grant. In 1832 the plan of dating legal memory from a fixed time was abandoned and the principle substituted that rights which had been enjoyed for full twenty years (or as against the crown thirty years) should not be liable to impeachment merely by proving that they had not been enjoyed before. 

IMMEMORIALLY:  Beyond memory. Bentley. 

IMMENSE:  Immeasurable; unlimited. In commonest use: Very great; vast; huge. "Immense the power" Pope. "Immense and boundless ocean." Daniel. O Goodness infinite! Goodness immense! Milton.  Syn.  -- Infinite; immeasurable; illimitable; unbounded; unlimited; interminable; vast; prodigious; enormous; monstrous. See Enormous. 

IMMENSELY:  In immense manner or degree. 

IMMENSENESS:  The state of being immense. 

IMMENSIBLE:  Immeasurable. [Obs.] Davies. 

IMMENSITY:  The state or quality of being immense; inlimited or immeasurable extension; infinity; vastness in extent or bulk; greatness. Lost in the wilds of vast immensity. Blackmore. The immensity of the material system. I. Taylor. 

IMMENSIVE:  Huge. [Obs.] Herrick. 

IMMENSURABILITY:  The quality of being immensurable. 

IMMENSURABLE:  Immeasurable. What an immensurable space is the firmament. Derham. 

IMMENSURATE:  Unmeasured; unlimited. [R.] W. Montagu. 

IMMERGE:  To plungel into, under, or within anything especially a fuid; to dip; to immerse. See Immerse. We took . . . lukewarm water, and in it immerged a quantity of the leaves of senna. Boyle. Their souls are immerged in matter. Jer. Taylor. 

IMMERGE:  To dissapear by entering into any medium, as a star into the light of the sun. [R.] 

IMMERIT:  Want of worth; demerit. [R.] Suckling. 

IMMERITED:  Unmerited. [Obs.] Charles I. 

IMMERITOUS:  Undeserving. [Obs.] Milton. 

IMMERSABLE:  See Immersible. 

IMMERSE:  Immersed; buried; hid; sunk. [Obs.] "Things immerse in matter." Bacon. 

IMMERSED:  Growing wholly under water. Gray. 

IMMERSIBLE:  Capable of being immersed. 

IMMERSIBLE:  Not capable of being immersed. 

IMMERSION:  The dissapearance of a celestail body, by passing either behind another, as in the occultation of a star, or into its shadow, as in the eclipse of a satellite; -- opposed to emersion. Immersion lens, a microscopic objective of short focal distance designed to work with a drop of liquid, as oil, between the front lens and the slide, so that this lens is practically immersed. 

IMMERSIONIST:  One who holds the doctrine that immersion is essential to Christian baptism. 

IMMESH:  To catch or entangle in, or as in, the meshes of a net. or in a web; to insnare. 

IMMETHODICAL:  Not methodical; without method or systematic arrangement; without order or regularity; confused. Addison.  Syn.  -- Irregular; confused; disoderly; unsystematic; desultory. 

IMMETHODICALLY:  Without method; confusedly; unsystematically. 

IMMETHODICALNESS:  Want of method. 

IMMETHODIZE:  To render immethodical; to destroy the method of; to confuse. [R.] 

IMMETRICAL:  Not metrical or rhythmical. [R.] Chapman. 

IMMEW:  See Emmew. 

IMMIGRANT:  One who immigrates; one who comes to a country for the purpose of permanent residence; -- correlative of emigrant.  Syn.  -- See Emigrant. 

IMMIGRATE:  To come into a country of which one is not a native, for the purpose of permanent residence. See Emigrate. 

IMMIGRATION:  The act of immigrating; the passing or coming into a country for the purpose of permanent residence. The immigrations of the Arabians into Europe. T. Warton. 

IMMINENTLY:  In an imminent manner. 

IMMINGLE:  To mingle; to mix; to unite; to blend. [R.] Thomson. 

IMMINUTION:  A lessening; diminution; decrease. [R.] Ray. 

IMMISCIBILITY:  Incapability of being mixed, or mingled. 

IMMISCIBLE:  Not capable of being mixed or mingled. A chaos of immiscible and conflicting particles. Cudworth. 

IMMISSION:  The act of immitting, or of sending or thrusting in; injection; -- the correlative of emission. 

IMMIT:  To send in; to inject; to infuse; -- the correlative of emit. [R.] Boyle. 

IMMITIGABLE:  Not capable of being mitigated, softened, or appeased. Coleridge. 

IMMITIGABLY:  In an immitigable manner. 

IMMIX:  To mix; to mingle. [R.] Amongst her tears immixing prayers meek. Spenser. 

IMMIXABLE:  Not mixable. Bp. Wilkins. 

IMMIXED:  Unmixed. [Obs.] How pure and immixed the design is. Boyle. 

IMMIXTURE:  Freedom from mixture; purity. [R.] W. Montagu. 

IMMOBILE:  Incapable of being moved; immovable; fixed; stable. Prof. Shedd. 

IMMOBILITY:  The condition or quality of being immobile; fixedness in place or state. 

IMMOBILIZE:  To make immovable; in surgery, to make immovable (a naturally mobile part, as a joint) by the use of splints, or stiffened bandages. 

IMMOBLE:  See Immobile. 

IMMODERACY:  Immoderateness. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

IMMODERANCY:  Immoderateness; excess. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

IMMODERATE:  Not moderate; exceeding just or usual and suitable bounds; excessive; extravagant; unreasonable; as, immoderate demands; immoderate grief; immoderate laughter. So every scope by the immoderate use Turns to restraint. Shak.  Syn.  -- Excessive; exorbitant; unreasonable; extravagant; intemperate; inordinate. 

IMMODERATELY:  In an immoderate manner; excessively. 

IMMODERATENESS:  The quality of being immoderate; excess; extravagance. Puller. 

IMMODERATION:  Want of moderation. Hallywell. 

IMMODESTLY:  In an immodest manner. 

IMMODESTY:  Want of modesty, delicacy, or decent reserve; indecency. "A piece of immodesty." Pope. 

IMMOLATE:  To sacrifice; to offer in sacrifice; to kill, as a sacrificial victim. Worshipers, who not only immolate to them [the deities] the lives of men, but . . . the virtue and honor of women. Boyle. 

IMMOLATOR:  One who offers in sacrifice; specifically, one of a sect of Russian fanatics who practice self-mutilatio and sacrifice.  IMMOLD; IMMOULD Im*mold", Im*mould", v. t.  To mold into shape, or form. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 

IMMOMENT:  Trifling. [R.] "Immoment toys." Shak. 

IMMOMENTOUS:  Not momentous; unimportant; insignificant. [R.] A. Seward. 

IMMORAL:  Not moral; inconsistent with rectitude, purity, or good morals; contrary to conscience or the divine law; wicked; unjust; dishonest; vicious; licentious; as, an immoral man; an immoral deed.  Syn.  -- Wicked; sinful; criminal; vicious; unjust; dishonest; depraved; impure; unchaste; profligate; dissolute; abandoned; licentious; lewd; obscene. 

IMMORALLY:  In an immoral manner; wickedly. 

IMMORIGEROUS:  Rude; uncivil; disobedient. [Obs.] -- Im`mo*rig"er*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

IMMORTAL:  One who will never cease to be; one exempt from death, decay, or annihilation. Bunyan. 

IMMORTALIST:  One who holds the doctrine of the immortality of the soul. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

IMMORTALIZATION:  The act of immortalizing, or state of being immortalized. 

IMMORTALIZE:  To become immortal. [R.] 

IMMORTALLY:  In an immortal manner. 

IMMORTELLE:  A plant with a conspicuous, dry, unwithering involucre, as the species of Antennaria, Helichrysum, Gomphrena, etc. See Everlasting. 

IMMORTIFICATION:  Failure to mortify the passions. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

IMMOVABILITY:  The quality or state of being immovable; fixedness; steadfastness; as, immovability of a heavy body; immovability of purpose. 

IMMOVABLE:  Not liable to be removed; permanent in place or tenure; fixed; as, an immovable estate. See Immovable, n. Blackstone. Immovable apparatus (Med.), an appliance, like the plaster of paris bandage, which keeps fractured parts firmly in place.  -- Immovable feasts (Eccl.), feasts which occur on a certain day of the year and do not depend on the date of Easter; as, Christmas, the Epiphany, etc. 

IMMOVABLE:  Lands and things adherent thereto by nature, as trees; by the hand of man, as buildings and their accessories; by their destination, as seeds, plants, manure, etc.; or by the objects to which they are applied, as servitudes. Ayliffe. Bouvier. 

IMMOVABLENESS:  Quality of being immovable. 

IMMOVABLY:  In an immovable manner. 

IMMUND:  Unclean. [R.] Burton. 

IMMUNDICITY:  Uncleanness; filthness. [R.] W. Montagu. 

IMMUNE:  Exempt; protected by inoculation.  -- Im*mu"nize, v. t. 

IMMURE:  A wall; an inclosure. [Obs.] Shak. 

IMMUREMENT:  The act iif immuring, or the state of being immured; imprsonment. 

IMMUSICAL:  Inharmonious; unmusical; discordant. Bacon. 

IMMUTABILITY:  The state or quality of being immutable; immutableness. Heb. vi. 17. 

IMMUTABLE:  Not mutable; not capable or susceptible of change; unchangeable; unalterable. That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation. Heb. vi. 18. Immutable, immortal, infinite, Eternal King. Milton. -- Im*mu"ta*ble*ness, n.  -- Im*mu"ta*bly, adv. 

IMMUTATE:  Unchanged. [Obs.] 

IMMUTATION:  Change; alteration; mutation. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

IMMUTE:  To change or alter. [Obs.] J. Salkeld. 

IMP:  To graft with new feathers, as a wing; to splice a broken feather. Hence, Fig.: To repair; to extend; to increase; to strengthen to equip. [Archaic] Imp out our drooping country's broken wing. Shak. Who lazily imp their wings with other men's plumes. Fuller. Here no frail Muse shall imp her crippled wing. Holmes. Help, ye tart satirists, to imp my rage With all the scorpions that should whip this age. Cleveland. 

IMPACABLE:  Not to be appeased or quieted. [Obs.] Spenser.  -- Im*pa"ca*bly, adv. 

IMPACKMENT:  The state of being closely surrounded, crowded, or pressed, as by ice. [R.] Kane. 

IMPACT:  To drive close; to press firmly together: to wedge into a place. Woodward. 

IMPACT:  The single instantaneous stroke of a body in motion against another either in motion or at rest. 

IMPACTED:  Driven together or close. Impacted fracture (Surg.), a fracture in which the fragments are driven into each other so as to be immovable. 

IMPACTION:  The driving of one fragment of bone into another so that the fragments are not movable upon each other; as, impaction of the skull or of the hip.  2. An immovable packing; (Med.), a lodgment of something in a strait or passage of the body; as, impaction of the fetal head in the strait of the pelvis; impaction of food or feces in the intestines of man or beast. 

IMPAINT:  To paint; to adorn with colors. [R.] "To impaint his cause." Shak. 

IMPAIR:  To make worse; to diminish in quantity, value, excellence, or strength; to deteriorate; as, to impair health, character, the mind, value. Time sensibly all things impairs. Roscommon. In years he seemed, but not impaired by years. Pope.  Syn.  -- To diminish; decrease; injure; weaken; enfeeble; debilitate; reduce; debase; deteriorate. 

IMPAIR:  To grow worse; to deteriorate. Milton. 

IMPAIR:  Not fit or appropriate. [Obs.] 

IMPAIR:  Diminution; injury. [Obs.] 

IMPAIRER:  One who, or that which, impairs. 

IMPAIRMENT:  The state of being impaired; injury. "The impairment of my health." Dryden. 

IMPALATABLE:  Unpalatable. [R.] 

IMPALE:  To join, as two coats of arms on one shield, palewise; hence, to join in honorable mention. Ordered the admission of St. Patrick to the same to be matched and impaled with the blessed Virgin in the honor thereof. Fuller. 

IMPALEMENT:  The division of a shield palewise, or by a vertical line, esp. for the purpose of putting side by side the arms of husband and wife. See Impale, 3. 

IMPALLA:  The pallah deer of South Africa. 

IMPALLID:  To make pallid; to blanch. [Obs.] Feltham. 

IMPALM:  To grasp with or hold in the hand. [R.] J. Barlow. 

IMPALPABILITY:  The quality of being impalpable. Jortin. 

IMPALPABLY:  In an impalpable manner. 

IMPALSY:  To palsy; to paralyze; to deaden. [R.] 

IMPANATE:  Embodied in bread, esp. in the bread of the eucharist. [Obs.] Cranmer. 

IMPANATE:  To embody in bread, esp. in the bread of the eucharist. [Obs.] 

IMPANATION:  Embodiment in bread; the supposed real presence and union of Christ's material body and blood with the substance of the elements of the eucharist without a change in their nature; -- distinguished from transubstantiation, which supposes a miraculous change of the substance of the elements. It is akin to consubstantiation. 

IMPANATOR:  One who holds the doctrine of impanation. 

IMPANEL:  To enter in a list, or on a piece of parchment, called a panel; to form or enroll, as a list of jurors in a court of justice. Blackstone. 

IMPANELMENT:  The act or process of impaneling, or the state of being impaneled. 

IMPARADISE:  To put in a state like paradise; to make supremely happy. "Imparadised in one another's arms." Milton. 

IMPARALLELED:  Unparalleled. [Obs.] 

IMPARDONABLE:  Unpardonable. [Obs.] South. 

IMPARIDIGITATE:  Having an odd number of fingers or toes, either one, three, or five, as in the horse, tapir, rhinoceros, etc. 

IMPARIPINNATE:  Pinnate with a single terminal leaflet. 

IMPARISYLLABIC:  Not consisting of an equal number of syllables; as, an imparisyllabic noun, one which has not the same number of syllables in all the cases; as, lapis, lapidis; mens, mentis. 

IMPARK:  To inclose for a park; to sever from a common; hence, to inclose or shut up. They . . . impark them [the sheep] within hurdles. Holland. 

IMPARL:  To have time before pleading; to have delay for mutual adjustment. Blackstone. 

IMPARSONEE:  Presented, instituted, and inducted into a rectory, and in full possession.  -- n.  A clergyman so inducted. 

IMPARTANCE:  Impartation. 

IMPARTATION:  The act of imparting, or the thing imparted. The necessity of this impartation. I. Taylor. 

IMPARTER:  One who imparts. 

IMPARTIAL:  Not partial; not favoring one more than another; treating all alike; unprejudiced; unbiased; disinterested; equitable; fair; just. Shak. Jove is impartial, and to both the same. Dryden. A comprehensive and impartial view. Macaulay. 

IMPARTIALIST:  One who is impartial. [R.] Boyle. 

IMPARTIALITY:  The quality of being impartial; freedom from bias or favoritism; disinterestedness; equitableness; fairness; as, impartiality of judgment, of treatment, etc. Impartiality strips the mind of prejudice and passion. South. 

IMPARTIALLY:  In an impartial manner. 

IMPARTIALNESS:  Impartiality. Sir W. Temple. 

IMPARTIBILITY:  The quality of being impartible; communicability. Blackstone. 

IMPARTIBILITY:  The quality of being incapable of division into parts; indivisibility. Holland. 

IMPARTIBLE:  Capable of being imparted or communicated. 

IMPARTIBLE:  Not partible; not subject to partition; indivisible; as, an impartible estate. Blackatone. 

IMPARTMENT:  The act of imparting, or that which is imparted, communicated, or disclosed. [R.] It beckons you to go away with it, As if it some impartment did desire To you alone. Shak. 

IMPASSABLE:  Incapable of being passed; not admitting a passage; as, an impassable road, mountain, or gulf. Milton.  -- Im*pass"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Im*pass"a*bly, adv. 

IMPASSE:  An impassable road or way; a  blind alley; cul-de-sac; fig., a position or predicament affording no escape.  The issue from the present impasse will, in all probability, proceed from below, not from above. Arnold White. 

IMPASSIBILITY:  The quality or condition of being impassible; insusceptibility of injury from external things. 

IMPASSIBLE:  Incapable of suffering; inaccessible to harm or pain; not to be touched or moved to passion or sympathy; unfeeling, or not showing feeling; without sensation. "Impassible to the critic." Sir W. Scott. Secure of death, I should contemn thy dart Though naked, and impassible depart. Dryden. 

IMPASSIBLENESS:  Impassibility. 

IMPASSION:  To move or affect strongly with passion. [Archaic] Chapman. 

IMPASSIONABLE:  Excitable; susceptible of strong emotion. 

IMPASSIONATE:  Strongly affected. Smart. 

IMPASSIONATE:  To affect powerfully; to arouse the passions of. Dr. H. More. 

IMPASSIONATE:  Without passion or feeling. Burton. 

IMPASSIONED:  Actuated or characterized by passion or zeal; showing warmth of feeling; ardent; animated; excited; as, an impassioned orator or discourse. 

IMPASSIVE:  Not susceptible of pain or suffering; apathetic; impassible; unmoved. Impassive as the marble in the quarry. De Quincey. On the impassive ice the lightings play. Pope. -- Im*pas"sive*ly, adv.  -- Im*pas"sive*ness, n. 

IMPASSIVITY:  The quality of being insusceptible of feeling, pain, or suffering; impassiveness. 

IMPASTATION:  The act of making into paste; that which is formed into a paste or mixture; specifically, a combination of different substances by means of cements. 

IMPASTE:  To lay color on canvas by uniting them skillfully together. [R.] Cf. Impasto. 

IMPASTING:  The laying on of colors to produce impasto. 

IMPASTO:  The thickness of the layer or body of pigment applied by the painter to his canvas with especial reference to the juxtaposition of different colors and tints in forming a harmonious whole. Fairholt. 

IMPASTURE:  To place in a pasture; to foster. [R.] T. Adams. 

IMPATIENCE:  The quality of being impatient; want of endurance of pain, suffering, opposition, or delay; eagerness for change, or for something expected; restlessness; chafing of spirit; fretfulness; passion; as, the impatience of a child or an invalid. I then, . . . Out of my grief and my impatience, Answered neglectingly. Shak. With huge impatience he inly swelt More for great sorrow that he could not pass, Than for the burning torment which he felt. Spenser. 

IMPATIENCY:  Impatience. [Obs.] 

IMPATIENS:  A genus of plants, several species of which have very beautiful flowers; -- so called because the elastic capsules burst when touched, and scatter the seeds with considerable force. Called also touch-me-not, jewelweed, and snapweed. I. Balsamina (sometimes called lady's slipper) is the common garden balsam. 

IMPATIENT:  One who is impatient. [R.] 

IMPATIENTLY:  In an impatient manner. 

IMPATRONIZATION:  Absolute seignory or possession; the act of investing with such possession. [R.] Cotgrave. 

IMPATRONIZE:  To make lord or master; as, to impatronize one's self of a seigniory. [R.] Bacon. 

IMPAVE:  To pave. [Poetic] Impaved with rude fidelity Of art mosaic. Wordsworth. 

IMPAVID:  Fearless.  -- Im*pav"id*ly, adv. 

IMPAWN:  To put in pawn; to pledge. Shak. 

IMPEACH:  To challenge or discredit the credibility of, as of a witness, or the validity of, as of commercial paper.  Note: When used in law with reference to a witness, the term signifies, to discredit, to show or prove unreliable or unworthy of belief; when used in reference to the credit of witness, the term denotes, to impair, to lessen, to disparage, to destroy. The credit of a witness may be impeached by showing that he has made statements out of court contradictory to what he swears at the trial, or by showing that his reputation for veracity is bad, etc.  Syn.  -- To accuse; arraign; censure; criminate; indict; impair; disparage; discredit. See Accuse. 

IMPEACH:  Hindrance; impeachment. [Obs.] 

IMPEACHABLE:  That may be impeached; liable to impeachment; chargeable with a crime. Owners of lands in fee simple are not impeachable for waste. Z. Swift. 

IMPEACHER:  One who impeaches. 

IMPEACHMENT:  The act of impeaching, or the state of being impeached; as: (a) Hindrance; impediment; obstruction. [Obs.] Willing to march on to Calais, Without impeachment. Shak.  (b) A calling to account; arraignment; especially, of a public officer for maladministration. The consequence of Coriolanus' impeachment had like to have been fatal to their state. Swift.  (c) A calling in question as to purity of motives, rectitude of conduct, credibility, etc.; accusation; reproach; as, an impeachment of motives. Shak.  Note: In England, it is the privilege or right of the House of Commons to impeach, and the right of the House of Lords to try and determine impeachments. In the United States, it is the right of the House of Representatives to impeach, and of the Senate to try and determine impeachments. Articles of impeachment. See under Article.  -- Impeachment of waste (Law), restraint from, or accountability for, injury; also, a suit for damages for injury. Abbott. 

IMPECCABILITY:  the quality of being impeccable; exemption from sin, error, or offense. Infallibility and impeccability are two of his attributes. Pope. 

IMPECCABLE:  Not liable to sin; exempt from the possibility of doing wrong.  -- n.  One who is impeccable; esp., one of a sect of Gnostic heretics who asserted their sinlessness. God is infallible, impeccable, and absolutely perfect. P. Skelton. 

IMPECCANCY:  Sinlessness. Bp. Hall. 

IMPECCANT:  Sinless; impeccable. Byron. 

IMPECUNIOSITY:  The state of being impecunious. Thackeray. Sir W. Scott. 

IMPECUNIOUS:  Not having money; habitually without money; poor. An impecunious creature. B. Jonson. 

IMPEDANCE:  The apparent resistance in an electric circuit to the flow of an alternating current, analogous to the actual electrical resistance to a direct current, being the ratio of electromotive force to the current. It is equal to R2 + X2, where R = ohmic resistance, X = reactance. For an inductive circuit, X = 2pfL, where f = frequency and L = self-inductance; for a circuit with capacity X = 1 ÷ 2pfC, where C = capacity. 

IMPEDE:  To hinder; to stop in progress; to obstruct; as, to impede the advance of troops. Whatever hinders or impedes The action of the nobler will. Logfellow. 

IMPEDIBLE:  Capable of being impeded or hindered. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

IMPEDIMENT:  That which impedes or hinders progress, motion, activity, or effect. Thus far into the bowels of the land Have we marched on without impediment. Shak. Impediment in speech, a defect which prevents distinct utterance.  Syn.  -- Hindrance; obstruction; obstacle; difficulty; incumbrance.  -- Impediment, Obstacle, Difficulty, Hindrance. An impediment literally strikes against our feet, checking our progress, and we remove it. An obstacle rises before us in our path, and we surmount or remove it. A difficulty sets before us something hard to be done, and we encounter it and overcome it. A hindrance holds us back for a time, but we break away from it. The eloquence of Demosthenes was to Philip of Macedon, a difficulty to be met with his best recources, ant obstacle to his own ambition, and an impedimen in his political career. C. J. Smith. 

IMPEDIMENT:  To impede. [R.] Bp. Reynolds. 

IMPEDIMENTA:  Things which impede or hinder progress; incumbrances; baggage; specif. (Mil.),  the supply trains which must accompany an army.  On the plains they will have horses dragging travoises, dogs with travoises, women and children loaded with impedimenta. Julian Ralph. 

IMPEDIMENTAL:  Of the nature of an impediment; hindering; obstructing; impeditive. Things so impediental to success. G. H. Lewes. 

IMPEDITE:  Hindered; obstructed. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

IMPEDITE:  To impede. [Obs.] Boyle. 

IMPEDITION:  A hindering; a hindrance. [Obs.] Baxier. 

IMPEDITIVE:  Causing hindrance; impeding. "Cumbersome, and impeditive of motion." Bp. Hall. 

IMPEL:  To drive or urge forward or on; to press on; to incite to action or motion in any way. The surge impelled me on a craggy coast. Pope.  Syn.  -- To instigate; incite; induce; influence; force; drive; urge; actuate; move. 

IMPELLENT:  Having the quality of impelling. 

IMPELLENT:  An impelling power or force. Glanvill. 

IMPELLER:  One who, or that which, impels. 

IMPEN:  To shut up or inclose, as in a pen. Feltham. 

IMPEND:  To pay. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

IMPEND:  To hang over; to be suspended above; to threaten frome near at hand; to menace; to be imminent. See Imminent. Destruction sure o'er all your heads impends. Pope.  IMPENDENCE; IMPENDENCY Im*pend"ence, Im*pend"en*cy, n.  The state of impending; also, that which impends. "Impendence of volcanic cloud." Ruskin. 

IMPENDENT:  Impending; threatening. Impendent horrors, threatening hideous fall. Milton. 

IMPENDING:  Hanging over; overhanging; suspended so as to menace; imminet; threatening. An impending brow. Hawthorne. And nodding Ilion waits th' impending fall. Pope.  Syn.  -- Imminent; threatening. See Imminent. 

IMPENETRABILITY:  That property in virtue of which two portions of matter can not at the same time occupy the same portion of space.  3. Insusceptibility of intellectual or emotional impression; obtuseness; stupidity; coldness. 

IMPENETRABLE:  Having the property of preventing any other substance from occupying the same space at the same time.  3. Inaccessible, as to knowledge, reason, sympathy, etc.; unimpressible; not to be moved by arguments or motives; as, an impenetrable mind, or heart. They will be credulous in all affairs of life, but impenetrable by a sermon of the gospel. Jer. Taylor. 

IMPENETRABLENESS:  The quality of being impenetrable; impenetrability. 

IMPENETRABLY:  In an impenetrable manner or state; imperviously. "Impenetrably armed." Milton. "Impenetrably dull." Pope. 

IMPENITENCE:  The condition of being impenitent; failure or refusal to repent; hardness of heart. He will advance from one degree of wickedness and impenitence to another. Rogers. 

IMPENITENCY:  Impenitence. Milton. 

IMPENITENT:  Not penitent; not repenting of sin; not contrite; of a hard heart. "They . . . died impenitent." Milton. "A careless and impenitent heart." Bp. Hall. 

IMPENITENT:  One who is not penitent. [R.] 

IMPENITENTLY:  Without repentance. 

IMPENNATE:  Characterized by short wings covered with feathers resembling scales, as the penguins.  -- n.  One of the Impennes. 

IMPENNES:  An order of birds, including only the penguins, in which the wings are without quills, and not suited for flight. 

IMPENNOUS:  Having no wings, as some insects. 

IMPEOPLE:  To people; to give a population to. [Obs.] Thou hast helped to impeople hell. Beaumont. 

IMPERANT:  Commanding. [R.] Baxter. 

IMPERATE:  Done by express direction; not involuntary; communded. [Obs.] Those imperate acts, wherein we see the empire of the soul. Sir M. Hale. 

IMPERATIVAL:  Of or pertaining to the imperative mood. 

IMPERATIVE:  Expressive of commund, entreaty, advice, or exhortation; as, the imperative mood. 

IMPERATIVE:  The imperative mood; also, a verb in the imperative mood. 

IMPERATIVELY:  In an imperative manner. 

IMPERATOR:  A commander; a leader; an emperor; -- originally an appellation of honor by which Roman soldiers saluted their general after an important victory. Subsequently the title was conferred as a recognition of great military achievements by the senate, whence it carried wiht it some special privileges. After the downfall of the Republic it was assumed by Augustus and his successors, and came to have the meaning now attached to the word emperor. 

IMPERATORIAN:  Imperial. [R.] Gauden. 

IMPERATORY:  Imperative. [R.] 

IMPERCEIVABLE:  Imperceptible. [R.] South.  -- Im`per*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n. Sharp. 

IMPERCEIVED:  Not perceived. [Obs.] 

IMPERCEPTIBILITY:  The state or quality of being imperceptible. 

IMPERCEPTIBLE:  Not perceptible; not to be apprehended or cognized by the souses; not discernible by the mind; not easily apprehended. Almost imperceptible to the touch. Dryden. Its operation is slow, and in some cases almost imperceptible. Burke. -- Im`per*cep"ti*ble*ness, n.  -- Im`per*cep"ti*bly, adv. Their . . . subility and imperceptibleness. Sir M. Hale. 

IMPERCEPTION:  Want of perception. 

IMPERCEPTIVE:  Unable to perceive. The imperceptive part of the soul. Dr. H. More. 

IMPERCIPIENT:  Not perceiving, or not able to perceive. A. Baxter. 

IMPERDIBILITY:  The state or quality of being imperdible. [Obs.] Derham. 

IMPERDIBLE:  Not destructible. [Obs.] -- Im*per"di*bly, adv. [Obs.] 

IMPERFECT:  The imperfect tense; or the form of a verb denoting the imperfect tense. 

IMPERFECT:  To make imperfect. [Obs.] 

IMPERFECTIBILITY:  The state or quality of being imperfectible. [R.] 

IMPERFECTIBLE:  Incapable of being mad perfect. [R.] 

IMPERFECTION:  The quality or condition of being imperfect; want of perfection; incompleteness; deficiency; fault or blemish. Sent to my account With all my imperfections on my head. Shak.  Syn.  -- Defect; deficiency; incompleteness; fault; failing; weakness; frailty; foible; blemish; vice. 

IMPERFECTNESS:  The state of being imperfect. 

IMPERFORABLE:  Incapable of being perforated, or bored through. 

IMPERFORATA:  A division of Foraminifera, including those in which the shell is not porous.  IMPERFORATE; IMPERFORATED Im*per"fo*rate, Im*per"fo*ra"ted, a. Etym: [L. pref. im- not + perforatus, p. p. of perforate to perforate. See Perforate.]  Not perforated; having no opening or aperture. Sir J. Banks. 

IMPERFORATION:  The state of being without perforation. 

IMPERIALISM:  The power or character of an emperor; imperial authority; the spirit of empire. Roman imperialism had divided the world. C. H. Pearson. 

IMPERIALIST:  One who serves an emperor; one who favors imperialism. 

IMPERIALIZE:  To invest with imperial authority, character, or style; to bring to the form of an empire. Fuller. 

IMPERIALLY:  In an imperial manner. 

IMPERIALLY:  Imperial power. [R.] Sheldon. 

IMPERIL:  To bring into peril; to endanger. 

IMPERILMENT:  The act of imperiling, or the state of being imperiled. 

IMPERIOUSLY:  In an imperious manner. 

IMPERIOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being imperious; arrogance; haughtiness. Imperiousness and severity is but an ill way of treating men who have reason of their own to guide them. Locke. 

IMPERISHABILITY:  The quality of being imperishable: indstructibility. "The imperishability of the universe." Milman. 

IMPERISHABLE:  Not perisha ble; not subject to decay; indestructible; enduringpermanently; as, an imperishable monument; imperishable renown.  -- Im*per"ish*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Im*per"ish*a*bly, adv. 

IMPERIWIGGED:  Wearing a periwig.  IMPERMANENCE; IMPERMANENCY Im*per"ma*nence, Im*per"ma*nen*cy, n.  Want of permanence. 

IMPERMANENT:  Not permanent. 

IMPERMEABILITY:  The quality of being impermeable. 

IMPERMEABLE:  Not permeable; not permitting passage, as of a fluid. through its substance; impervious; impenetrable; as, India rubber is impermeable to water and to air.  -- Im*per"me*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Im*per"me*a*bly, adv. 

IMPERMISSIBLE:  Not permissible. 

IMPERSCRUTABLE:  Not capable of being searched out; inscrutable. [Obs.] -- Im`per*scru"ta*ble*ness, n. [Obs.] 

IMPERSEVERANT:  Not persevering; fickle; thoughtless. [Obs.] 

IMPERSONAL:  Not personal; not representing a person; not having personality. An almighty but impersonal power, called Fate. Sir J. Stephen. Impersonal verb (Gram.), a verb used with an indeterminate subject, commonly, in English, with the impersonal pronoun it; as, it rains; it snows; methinks (it seems to me). Many verbs which are not strictly impersonal are often used impersonally; as, it goes well with him. 

IMPERSONAL:  That which wants personality; specifically (Gram.), an impersonal verb. 

IMPERSONALITY:  The quality of being impersonal; want or absence of personality. 

IMPERSONALLY:  In an impersonal manner. 

IMPERSONATE:  The act of impersonating; personification; investment with personality; representation in a personal form. 

IMPERSONATOR:  One who impersonates; an actor; a mimic. 

IMPERSPICUITY:  Want of perspicuity or clearness; vaguness; ambiguity. 

IMPERSPICUOUS:  Not perspicuous; not clear; obscure; vague; ambeguous. 

IMPERSUADABLE:  Not to be persuaded; obstinate; unyielding; impersuasible.  -- Im`per*suad"a*ble*ness, n. 

IMPERSUASIBLE:  Not persuasible; not to be moved by persuasion; inflexible; impersuadable. Dr. H. More.  -- Im`per*sua`si*bil"i*ty, n. 

IMPERTINENCY:  Impertinence. [R.] O, matter and impertinency mixed! Reason in madness! Shak. 

IMPERTINENT:  An impertinent person. [R.] 

IMPERTINENTLY:  In an impertinent manner. "Not to betray myself impertinently." B. Jonson. 

IMPERTRANSIBILITY:  The quality or state of being impertransible. [R.] 

IMPERTRANSIBLE:  Incapable of being passed through. [R.] 

IMPERTURBABILITY:  The state or quality of being imperturbable. [1913 Webster] 

IMPERTURBABLE:  Incapable of being disturbed or disconcerted; as, imperturbable gravity. 

IMPERTURBABLY:  In an imperturbable manner; calmly. C. Bronté. 

IMPERTURBATION:  Freedom from agitation of mind; calmness; quietude. W. Montagu. 

IMPERTURBED:  Not perturbed. 

IMPERVIABILITY:  The quality of being imperviable. 

IMPERVIABLE:  Not pervious; impervious. [R.] -- Im*per"vi*a*ble*ness, n. [R.] 

IMPERVIOUS:  Not pervious; not admitting of entrance or passage through; as, a substance impervious to water or air. This gulf impassable, impervious. Milton. The minds of these zealots were absolutely impervious. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Impassable; pathless; impenetrable; imperviable; impermeable.  -- Im*per"vi*ous*ly, adv.  -- Im*per"vi*ous*ness, n. 

IMPERY:  Empery. [Archaic] Joye. 

IMPEST:  To affict with pestilence; to infect, as with plague. [Obs.] 

IMPESTER:  See Pester. [Obs.] 

IMPETIGINOUS:  Of the nature of, or pertaining to, impetigo. 

IMPETIGO:  A cutaneous, pustular eruption, not attended with fever; usually, a kind of eczema with pustulation. 

IMPETRABLE:  Capable of being obtained or moved by petition. [Obs.] Bailey. 

IMPETRATE:  Obtained by entreaty. [Obs.] Ld. Herbert. 

IMPETRATE:  To obtain by request or entreaty. Usher. 

IMPETRATION:  The obtaining of benefice from Rome by solicitation, which benefice belonged to the disposal of the king or other lay patron of the realm. 

IMPETRATIVE:  Of the nature of impetration; getting, or tending to get, by entreaty. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

IMPETRATORY:  Containing or expressing entreaty. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

IMPETUS:  The aititude through which a heavy body must fall to acquire a velocity equal to that with which a ball is discharged from a piece.  IMPEYAN PHEASANT Im"pey*an pheas"ant. Etym: [From Lady Impey, who attempted to naturalize the bird in England.] (Zoöl.)  An Indian crested pheasant of the genus Lophophorus. Several species are known. Called also monaul, monal.  Note: They are remarkable for the bright color and brilliant matallic hues of their plumage. The best known species (L. Impeyanus) has the neck of a brilliant metallic red, changing to golden yellow in certain lights. 

IMPHEE:  The African sugar cane (Holcus saccharatus), -- resembling the sorghum, or Chinese sugar cane. 

IMPI:  A body of Kaffir warriors; a body of native armed men. [South Africa]  As early as 1862 he crossed assagais with and defeated a Matabili impi (war band). James Bryce. 

IMPICTURED:  Pictured; impressed. [Obs.] Spenser. 

IMPIERCE:  To pierce; to penetrate. [Obs.] Drayton. 

IMPIERCEABLE:  Not capable of being pierced; impenetrable. [Obs.] Spenser. 

IMPIGNORATE:  To pledge or pawn. [Obs.] Laing. 

IMPIGNORATION:  The act of pawning or pledging; the state of being pawned. [Obs.] Bailey. 

IMPING:  The process of repairing broken feathers or a deficient wing. 

IMPINGE:  To fall or dash against; to touch upon; to strike; to hit; to ciash with; -- with on or upon. The cause of reflection is not the impinging of light on the solid or impervious parts of bodies. Sir I. Newton. But, in the present order of things, not to be employed without impinging on God's justice. Bp. Warburton. 

IMPINGEMENT:  The act of impinging. 

IMPINGENT:  Striking against or upon. 

IMPINGUATE:  To fatten; to make fat. [Obs.] Bacon. 

IMPINGUATION:  The act of making fat, or the state of being fat or fattened. [Obs.] 

IMPIOUS:  Not pious; wanting piety; irreligious; irreverent; ungodly; profane; wanting in reverence for the Supreme Being; as, an impious deed; impious language. When vice prevails, and impious men bear away, The post of honor is a private station. Addison.  Syn.  -- Impious, Irreligious, Profane. Irreligious is negative, impious and profane are positive. An indifferent man may be irreligious; a profane man is irreverent in speech and conduct; an impious man is wickedly and boldly defiant in the strongest sense. Profane also has the milder sense of secular. C. J. Smith.  -- Im"pi*ous*ly, adv.  -- Im"pi*ous*ness, n. 

IMPIRE:  See Umpire. [Obs.] Huloet. 

IMPISH:  Having the qualities, or showing the characteristics, of an imp. 

IMPISHLY:  In the manner of an imp. 

IMPITEOUS:  Pitiless; cruel. [Obs.] 

IMPLACABILITY:  The quality or state of being implacable. 

IMPLACABLENESS:  The quality of being implacable; implacability. 

IMPLACABLY:  In an implacable manner. 

IMPLACENTAL:  Without a placenta, as marsupials and monotremes.  -- n.  A mammal having no placenta. 

IMPLACENTALIA:  A primary division of the Mammalia, including the monotremes and marsupials, in which no placenta is formed. 

IMPLANT:  To plant, or infix, for the purpose of growth; to fix deeply; to instill; to inculate; to introduce; as, to implant the seeds of virtue, or the principles of knowledge, in the minds of youth. Minds well implanted with solid . . . breeding. Milton. 

IMPLANTATION:  The act or process of implantating. 

IMPLATE:  To cover with plates; to sheathe; as, to implate a ship with iron. 

IMPLAUSIBILITY:  Want of plausibility; the quality of being implausible. 

IMPLAUSIBLE:  Not plausible; not wearing the appearance of truth or credibility, and not likely to be believed. "Implausible harangues." Swift.  -- Im*plau"si*ble*ness, n.  -- Im*plau"si*bly, adv. 

IMPLEACH:  To pleach; to interweave. [Obs.] Shak. 

IMPLEAD:  To institute and prosecute a suit against, in court; to sue or prosecute at law; hence, to accuse; to impeach. 

IMPLEAD:  To sue at law. 

IMPLEADABLE:  Not admitting excuse, evasion, or plea; rigorous. [R.] T. Adams. 

IMPLEADER:  One who prosecutes or sues another. 

IMPLEASING:  Unpleasing; displeasing. [Obs.] Overbury. 

IMPLEDGE:  To pledge. Sir W. Scott. 

IMPLEMENT:  That which fulfills or supplies a want or use; esp., an instrument, toll, or utensil, as supplying a requisite to an end; as, the implements of trade, of husbandry, or of war. Genius must have talent as its complement and implement. Coleridge. 

IMPLEMENT:  To fulfill or perform, as a contract or an engagement. 

IMPLEMENTAL:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, implements or their use; mechanical. 

IMPLEX:  Intricate; entangled; complicated; complex. The fable of every poem is . . . simple or implex. it is called simple when there is no change of fortune in it; implex, when the fortune of the chief actor changes from bad to good, or from good to bad. Addison. 

IMPLEXION:  Act of involving, or state of being involved; involution. 

IMPLIABLE:  Not pliable; inflexible; inyielding. 

IMPLICATIVE:  Tending to implicate. 

IMPLICATIVELY:  By implication. Sir G. Buck. 

IMPLICITNESS:  State or quality of being implicit. 

IMPLICITY:  Implicitness. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

IMPLIED:  Virtually involved or included; involved in substance; inferential; tacitly conceded; -- the correlative of express, or expressed. See Imply. 

IMPLIEDLY:  By implication or inference. Bp. Montagu. 

IMPLODED:  Formed by implosion. Ellis. 

IMPLODENT:  An implosive sound. Ellis. 

IMPLORATION:  The act of imploring; earnest supplication. Bp. Hall. 

IMPLORATOR:  One who implores. [Obs.] Mere implorators of unholy suits. Shak. 

IMPLORATORY:  Supplicatory; entreating. [R.] Carlyle. 

IMPLORE:  To call upon, or for, in supplication; to beseech; to prey to, or for, earnestly; to petition with urency; to entreat; to beg; -- followed directly by the word expressing the thing sought, or the person from whom it is sought. Imploring all the gods that reign above. Pope. I kneel, and then implore her blessing. Shak.  Syn.  -- To beseech; supplicate; crave; entreat; beg; solicit; petition; prey; request; adjure. See Beseech. 

IMPLORE:  To entreat; to beg; to prey. 

IMPLORE:  Imploration. [Obs.] Spencer. 

IMPLORER:  One who implores. 

IMPLORING:  That implores; beseeching; entreating.  -- Im*plor"ing*ly, adv. 

IMPLOSION:  A sudden compression of the air in the mouth, simultaneously with and affecting the sound made by the closure of the organs in uttering p, t, or k, at the end of a syllable (see Guide to Pronunciation, §§159, 189); also, a similar compression made by an upward thrust of the larynx without any accompanying explosive action, as in the peculiar sound of b, d, and g, heard in Southern Germany. H. Sweet. 

IMPLOSIVE:  Formed by implosion.  -- n.  An implosive sound, an implodent.  -- Im*plo"sive*ly, adv. H. Sweet. 

IMPLUMED:  Not plumed; without plumes or feathers; featherless. [R.] Drayton. 

IMPLUNGE:  To plunge. Fuller. 

IMPLUVIUM:  In Roman dwellings, a cistern or tank, set in the atrium or peristyle to recieve the water from the roof, by means of the compluvium; generally made ornamental with flowers and works of art around its birm. 

IMPOISON:  To poison; to imbitter; to impair. 

IMPOISONER:  A poisoner. [Obs.] Beau. & Fi. 

IMPOISONMENT:  The act of poisoning or impoisoning. [Obs.] Pope.  IMPOLARILY; IMPOLARLY Im*po"lar*i*ly, Im*po"lar*ly, adv.  Not according to or in, the direction of the poles. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

IMPOLICY:  The quality of being impolitic; inexpedience; unsuitableness to the end proposed; bads policy; as, the impolicy of fraud. Bp. Horsley. 

IMPOLITE:  Not polite; not of polished manners; wanting in good manners; discourteous; uncivil; rude.  -- Im`po*lite"ly, adv.  -- Im`po*lite"ness, n. 

IMPOLITIC:  Not politic; contrary to, or wanting in, policy; unwise; imprudent; indiscreet; inexpedient; as, an impolitic ruler, law, or measure. The most unjust and impolitic of all things, unequal taxation. Burke.  Syn.  -- Indiscreet; inexpedient; undiplomatic. 

IMPOLITICAL:  Impolitic. [Obs.] -- Im`po*lit"i*cal*ly, adv. [Obs.] Bacon. 

IMPOLITICLY:  In an impolitic manner. 

IMPOLITICNESS:  The quality of being impolitic. 

IMPONDERABILITY:  The quality or state of being imponderable; imponderableness. 

IMPONDERABLE:  Not ponderable; without sensible or appreciable weight; incapable of being weighed. 

IMPONDERABLE:  An imponderable substance or body; specifically, in the plural, a name formely applied to heat, light, electricity, and magnetism, regarded as subtile flyids destitute of weight but in modern science little used. 

IMPONDERABLENESS:  The quality or state of being imponderable. 

IMPONDEROUS:  Imponderable. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  -- Im*pon"der*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] 

IMPONE:  To stake; to wager; to pledge. [Obs.] Against the which he has imponed, as I take it, six French rapiers and poniards. Shak. 

IMPOOFO:  The eland. [Written also impoofoo.] 

IMPOON:  The duykerbok. 

IMPOOR:  To impoverish. [Obs.] 

IMPOROSITY:  The state or quality of being imporous; want of porosity; compactness. "The . . . imporosity betwixt the tangible parts." Bacon. 

IMPOROUS:  Destitute of pores; very close or compact in texture; solid. Sir T. Browne. 

IMPORT:  To signify; to purport; to be of moment. "For that . . . importeth to the work." Bacon. 

IMPORTABLE:  Capable of being imported. 

IMPORTABLE:  Not to be endured; insupportable; intolerable. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- Im*port"a*ble*ness, n. [Obs.] 

IMPORTANCY:  Importance; significance; consequence; that which is important. [Obs.] Shak. "Careful to conceal importancies." Fuller. 

IMPORTANTLY:  In an important manner. 

IMPORTER:  One who imports; the merchant who brings goods into a country or state; -- opposed to exporter. 

IMPORTING:  Full of meaning. [Obs.] Shak. 

IMPORTLESS:  Void of meaning. [Obs.] Shak. 

IMPORTUNABLE:  Heavy; insupportable. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

IMPORTUNACY:  The quality of being importunate; importunateness. 

IMPORTUNATOR:  One who importunes; an importuner. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 

IMPORTUNE:  To require; to demand. [Obs.] We shall write to you, As time and our concernings shall importune. Shak. 

IMPORTUNELY:  In an importune manner. [Obs.] 

IMPORTUNER:  One who importunes. 

IMPORTUNITY:  The quality of being importunate; pressing or pertinacious solicitation; urgent request; incessant or frequent application; troublesome pertinacity. O'ercome with importunity and tears. Milton. 

IMPORTUOUS:  Without a port or harbor. [R.] 

IMPOSABLE:  Capable of being imposed or laid on. Hammond. 

IMPOSABLENESS:  Quality of being imposable. 

IMPOSE:  To lay on, as the hands, in the religious rites of confirmation and ordination.  4. (Print.)  To arrange in proper order on a table of stone or metal and lock up in a chase for printing; -- said of columns or pages of type, forms, etc. 

IMPOSE:  To practice trick or deception. To impose on or upon, to pass or put a trick on; to delude. "He imposes on himself, and mistakes words for things." Locke. 

IMPOSE:  A command; injunction. [Obs.] Shak. 

IMPOSEMENT:  Imposition. [Obs.] 

IMPOSER:  One who imposes. The imposers of these oaths might repent. Walton. 

IMPOSING:  The act of imposing the columns of a page, or the pages of a sheet. See Impose, v. t., 4. Imposing stone (Print.), the stone on which the pages or columns of types are imposed or made into forms; - - called also imposing table. 

IMPOSINGLY:  In an imposing manner. 

IMPOSINGNESS:  The quality of being imposing. 

IMPOSITION:  An extra exercise enjoined on students as a punishment. T. Warton.  4. An excessive, arbitrary, or unlawful exaction; hence, a trick or deception put on laid on others; cheating; fraud; delusion; imposture. Reputation is an idle and most false imposition. Shak.  5. (Eccl.)  The act of laying on the hands as a religious ceremoy, in ordination, confirmation, etc.  6. (Print.)  The act or process of imosing pages or columns of type. See Impose, v. t., 4.  Syn.  -- Deceit; fraud; imposture. See Deception. 

IMPOSSIBLE:  Not possible; incapable of being done, of existing, etc.; unattainable in the nature of things, or by means at command; insuperably difficult under the circumstances; absurd or impracticable; not feasible. With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible. Matt. xix. 26. Without faith it is impossible to please him. Heb. xi. 6. Impossible quantity (Math.), an imagnary quantity. See Imaginary.  Syn.  -- See Impracticable. 

IMPOSSIBLE:  An impossibility. [Obs.] "Madam," quoth he, "this were an impossible!" Chaucer. 

IMPOSSIBLY:  Not possibly. Sir. T. North. 

IMPOST:  The top member of a pillar, pier, wall, etc., upon which the weight of an arch rests.  Note: The impost is called continuous, if the moldings of the arch or architrave run down the jamb or pier without a break.  Syn.  -- Tribute; excise; custom; duty; tax. 

IMPOSTHUMATE:  To apostemate; to form an imposthume or abscess. Arbuthnot. 

IMPOSTHUMATE:  To affect with an imposthume or abscess. 

IMPOSTHUMATE:  Imposthumated. 

IMPOSTHUME:  A collection of pus or purulent matter in any part of an animal body; an abscess. 

IMPOSTHUME:  Same as Imposthumate. 

IMPOSTOR:  One who imposes upon others; a person who assumes a character or title not his own, for the purpose of deception; a pretender. "The fraudulent impostor foul." Milton.  Syn.  -- Deceiver; cheat; rogue. See Deceiver. 

IMPOSTORSHIP:  The condition, character, or practice of an impostor. Milton.  IMPOSTRESS; IMPOSTRIX Im*pos"tress, Im*pos"trix, n. Etym: [LL. impostrix. See Impostor.]  A woman who imposes upon or deceives others. [R.] Fuller. 

IMPOSTROUS:  Characterized by imposture; deceitful. "Impostrous pretense of knowledge." Grote. 

IMPOSTURAGE:  Imposture; cheating. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

IMPOSTURE:  The act or conduct of an impostor; deception practiced under a false or assumed character; fraud or imposition; cheating. From new legends And fill the world with follies and impostures. Johnson.  Syn.  -- Cheat; fraud; trick; imposition; delusion. 

IMPOSTURED:  Done by imposture. [Obs.] 

IMPOSTUROUS:  Impostrous; deceitful. Strictness fales and impostrous. Beau. & Fl. 

IMPOSTURY:  Imposture. [Obs.] Fuller.  IMPOTENCE; IMPOTENCY Im"po*tence, Im"po*ten*cy, n. Etym: [L. impotenia inability, poverty, want of moderation. See Impotent.]  1. The quality or condition of being impotent; want of strength or power, animal, intellectual, or moral; weakness; feebleness; inability; imbecility. Some were poor by impotency of nature; as young fatherless children, old decrepit persons, idiots, and cripples. Hayward. O, impotence of mind in body strong! Milton.  2. Want of self-restraint or self-control. [R.] Milton.  3. (Law & Med.)  Want of procreative power; inability to copulate, or beget children; also, sometimes, sterility; barrenness. 

IMPOTENT:  Wanting the power of procreation; unable to copulate; also, sometimes, sterile; barren. 

IMPOTENT:  One who is imoitent. [R.] Shak. 

IMPOTENTLY:  In an impotent manner. 

IMPOUND:  To shut up or place in an inclosure called a pound; hence, to hold in the custody of a court; as, to impound stray cattle; to impound a document for safe keeping. But taken and impounded as a stray, The king of Scots. Shak. 

IMPOUNDER:  One who impounds. 

IMPOVERISHER:  One who, or that which, impoverishes. 

IMPOVERISHMENT:  The act of impoverishing, or the state of being impoverished; reduction to poverty. Sir W. Scott. 

IMPOWER:  See Empower.  IMP-POLE Imp"-pole` (, n. (Building)  A pole for supporting a scaffold. 

IMPRACTICABLENESS:  The state or quality of being impracticable; impracticability. 

IMPRACTICABLY:  In an impracticable manner. Morality not impracticably rigid. Johnson. 

IMPRACTICAL:  Not practical. 

IMPRECATION:  The act of imprecating, or unvoking evil upon any one; a player that a curse or calamnity may fall on any one; a curse. Men cowered like slaves before such horrid imprecations. Motley.  Syn.  -- Malediction; curse; execration; anathema. See Malediction. 

IMPRECATORY:  Of the nature of, or containing, imprecation; invokingevil; as, the imprecatory psalms. 

IMPRECISION:  Want of precision. [R.] 

IMPREGN:  To impregnate; to make fruitful. [Obs.] His perniciousss words, impregned With reason. Milton. Semele doth Bacchus bear Impregned of Jove. Dr. H. More. 

IMPREGNABILITY:  The quality or state of being impregnable; invincibility. 

IMPREGNABLE:  Not to be stormed, or taken by assault; incapable of being subdued; able to resist attack; unconquerable; as, an impregnable fortress; impregnable virtue. The man's affection remains wholly unconcerned and impregnable. South. -- Im*preg"na*ble*ness, n.  -- Im*preg"na*bly, adv. 

IMPREGNABLE:  Capable of being impregnated, as the egg of an animal, or the ovule of a plant. 

IMPREGNANT:  That which impregnates. [R.] Glanvill. 

IMPREGNANT:  Not pregnant; unfertilized or infertile. [R.] 

IMPREGNATE:  To come into contact with (an ovum or egg) so as to cause impregnation; to fertilize; to fecundate.  3. To infuse an active principle into; to render frutful or fertile in any way; to fertilize; to imbue.  4. To infuse particles of another substance into; to communicate the quality of another to; to cause to be filled, imbued, mixed, or furnished (with something); as, to impregnate India rubber with sulphur; clothing impregnated with contagion; rock impregnated with ore. 

IMPREGNATE:  To become pregnant. Addison. 

IMPREGNATE:  Impregnated; made prolific. The scorching ray Here pierceth not, impregnate with disease. Byron. 

IMPREGNATION:  The fusion of a female germ cell (ovum) with a male germ cell (in animals, a spermatozoön) to form a single new cell endowed with the power of developing into a new individual; fertilization; fecundation.  Note: In the broadest biological sense, impregnation, or sexual generation, consists simply in the coalescence of two similar masses of protoplasmic matter, either derived from different parts of the same organism or from two distinct organisms. From the single mass, which results from the fusion, or coalescence, of these two masses, a new organism develops.  3. That with which anything is impregnated. Derham.  4. Intimate mixture; influsion; saturation.  5. (Mining)  An ore deposit, with indefinite boundaries, consisting of rock impregnated with ore. Raymond. 

IMPREJUDICATE:  Not prejuged; unprejudiced; impartial. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

IMPRENABLE:  Impregnable. [Obs.] 

IMPREPARATION:  Want of preparation. [Obs.] Hooker. 

IMPRESA:  A device on a shield or seal, or used as a bookplate or the like. [Written also imprese and impress.] My impresa to your lordship; a swain Flying to a laurel for shelter. J. Webster. 

IMPRESARIO:  The projector, manager, or conductor, of an opera or concert company. 

IMPRESCRIPTIBILITY:  The quality of being imprescriptible. 

IMPRESCRIPTIBLY:  In an imprescriptible manner; obviously. 

IMPRESE:  A device. See Impresa. An imprese, as the Italians call it, is a device in picture with his motto or word, borne by noble or learned personages. Camden. 

IMPRESS:  To take by force for public service; as, to impress sailors or money. The second five thousand pounds impressed for the service of the sick and wounded prisoners. Evelyn. 

IMPRESS:  To be impressed; to rest. [Obs.] Such fiendly thoughts in his heart impress. Chaucer. 

IMPRESS:  The act of impressing, or taking by force for the public service; compulsion to serve; also, that which is impressed. Why such impress of shipwrights Shak. Impress gang, a party of men, with an officer, employed to impress seamen for ships of war; a press gang.  -- Impress money, a sum of money paid, immediately upon their entering service, to men who have been impressed. 

IMPRESSIBILITY:  The quality of being impressible; susceptibility. 

IMPRESSIBLE:  Capable of being impressed; susceptible; sensitive.  -- Im*press"i*ble*ness, n.  -- Im*press"i*bly, adv. 

IMPRESSION:  The pressure of the type on the paper, or the result of such pressure, as regards its appearance; as, a heavy impression; a clear, or a poor, impression; also, a single copy as the result of printing, or the whole edition printed at a given time. Ten impressions which his books have had. Dryden.  8. In painting, the first coat of color, as the priming in house painting and the like. [R.]  9. (Engraving)  A print on paper from a wood block, metal plate, or the like. Proof impression, one of the early impressions taken from an engraving, before the plate or block is worn. 

IMPRESSIONABILITY:  The quality of being impressionable. 

IMPRESSIONABLE:  Liable or subject to impression; capable of being molded; susceptible; impressible. He was too impressionable; he had too much of the temperament of genius. Motley. A pretty face and an impressionable disposition. T. Hook. 

IMPRESSIONABLENESS:  The quality of being impressionable. 

IMPRESSIONISM:  The theory or method of suggesting an effect or impression without elaboration of the details; -- a disignation of a recent fashion in painting and etching. 

IMPRESSIONIST:  One who adheres to the theory or method of impressionism, so called. 

IMPRESSIONISTIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, impressionism. 

IMPRESSIONLESS:  Having the quality of not being impressed or affected; not susceptible. 

IMPRESSMENT:  The act of seizing for public use, or of impressing into public service; compulsion to serve; as, the impressment of provisions or of sailors. The great scandal of our naval service -- impressment -- died a protracted death. J. H. Burton. 

IMPRESSOR:  One who, or that which, impresses. Boyle. 

IMPRESSURE:  Dent; impression. [Obs.] Shak. 

IMPREST:  To advance on loan. Burke. 

IMPREST:  A kind of earnest money; loan; -- specifically, money advanced for some public service, as in enlistment. Burke. The clearing of their imprests for what little of their debts they have received. Pepys.  IMPREVALENCE; IMPREVALENCY Im*prev"a*lence, Im*prev"a*len*cy, n.  Want of prevalence. [Obs.] 

IMPREVENTABILITY:  The state or quality of being impreventable. [R.] 

IMPREVENTABLE:  Not preventable; invitable. 

IMPRIMATUR:  A license to print or publish a book, paper, etc.; also, in countries subjected to the censorship of the press, approval of that which is published. 

IMPRIMING:  A begining. [Obs.] "Their springings and imprimings." Sir H. Wotton. 

IMPRIMIS:  In the first place; first in order. 

IMPRINT:  Whatever is impressed or imprinted; the impress or mark left by something; specifically, the name of the printer or publisher (usually) with the time and place of issue, in the title-page of a book, or on any printed sheet. "That imprint of their hands." Buckle. 

IMPRISONER:  One who imprisons. 

IMPRISONMENT:  The act of imprisoning, or the state of being imprisoned; confinement; restraint. His sinews waxen weak and raw Through long imprisonment and hard constraint. Spenser. Every confinement of the person is an imprisonment, whether it be in a common prison, or in a private house, or even by foreibly detaining one in the public streets. Blackstone. False imprisonment. (Law) See under False.  Syn.  -- Incarceration; custody; confinement; durance; restraint. 

IMPROBABILITY:  The quality or state of being improbable; unlikelihood; also, that which is improbable; an improbable event or result. 

IMPROBABLE:  Not probable; unlikely to be true; not to be expected under the circumstances or in the usual course of events; as, an improbable story or event. He . . . sent to Elutherius, then bishop of Rome, an improbable letter, as some of the contents discover. Milton. -- Im*prob"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Im*prob"a*bly, adv. 

IMPROBATE:  To disapprove of; to disallow. [Obs.] 

IMPROBATION:  The act by which falsehood and forgery are proved; an action brought for the purpose of having some instrument declared false or forged. Bell.  IMPROBATIVE; IMPROBATORY Im"pro*ba*tive, Im"pro*ba`to*ry, a.  Implying, or tending to, improbation. 

IMPROBITY:  Lack of probity; want of integrity or rectitude; dishonesty. Persons . . . cast out for notorious improbity. Hooker.  IMPROFICIENCE; IMPROFICIENCY Im`pro*fi"cience, Im`pro*fi"cien*cy, n.  Want of proficiency. [R.] Bacon. 

IMPROFITABLE:  Unprofitable. [Obs.] 

IMPROGRESSIVE:  Not progressive. De Quincey.  -- Im"pro*gress"ive*ly, adv. 

IMPROLIFIC:  Not prolific. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse. 

IMPROLIFICATE:  To impregnate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

IMPROMPT:  Not ready. [R.] Sterne. 

IMPROMPTU:  Offhand; without previous study; extemporaneous; extempore; as, an impromptu verse. 

IMPROMPTU:  A piece composed or played at first thought; a composition in the style of an extempore piece. 

IMPROPER:  To appropriate; to limit. [Obs.] He would in like manner improper and inclose the sunbeams to comfort the rich and not the poor. Jewel. 

IMPROPERATION:  The act of upbraiding or taunting; a reproach; a taunt. [Obs.] Improperatios and terms of scurrility. Sir T. Browne 

IMPROPERIA:  A series of antiphons and responses, expressing the sorrowful remonstrance of our Lord with his people; -- sung on the morning of the Good Friday in place of the usual daily Mass of the Roman ritual. Grove. 

IMPROPERLY:  In an improper manner; not properly; unsuitably; unbecomingly. 

IMPROPERTY:  Impropriety. [Obs.] 

IMPROPITIOUS:  Unpropitious; unfavorable. [Obs.] "Dreams were impropitious." Sir H. Wotton. 

IMPROPORTIONABLE:  Not proportionable. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

IMPROPORTIONATE:  Not proportionate. [Obs.] 

IMPROPRIATE:  To place the profits of (ecclesiastical property) in the hands of a layman for care and disbursement. 

IMPROPRIATE:  To become an impropriator. [R.] 

IMPROPRIATE:  Put into the hands of a layman; impropriated. 

IMPROPRIATOR:  One who impropriates; specifically, a layman in possession of church property. 

IMPROPRIATRIX:  A female impropriator. 

IMPROSPERITY:  Want of prosperity. [Obs.] 

IMPROSPEROUS:  Not prosperous. [Obs.] Dryden.  -- Im*pros"per*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Im*pros"per*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] 

IMPROVABILITY:  The state or quality of being improvable; improvableness. 

IMPROVEMENT:  Valuable additions or betterments, as buildings, clearings, drains, fences, etc., on premises.  6. (Patent Laws)  A useful addition to, or modification of, a machine, manufacture, or composition. Kent. 

IMPROVER:  One who, or that which, improves. 

IMPROVIDED:  Unforeseen; unexpected; not provided against; unprepared. [Obs.] All improvided for dread of death. E. Hall. 

IMPROVIDENCE:  The quality of being improvident; want of foresight or thrift. The improvidence of my neighbor must not make me inhuman. L'Estrange. 

IMPROVIDENT:  Not provident; wanting foresight or forethought; not foreseeing or providing for the future; negligent; thoughtless; as, an improvident man. Improvident soldires! had your watch been good, This sudden mischief never could have fallen. Shak.  Syn.  -- Inconsiderable; negligent; careless; shiftless; prodigal; wasteful. 

IMPROVIDENTIALLY:  Improvidently. [R.] 

IMPROVIDENTLY:  In a improvident manner. "Improvidently rash." Drayton. 

IMPROVING:  Tending to improve, beneficial; growing better.  -- Im*prov"ing*ly, adv. Improving lease (Scots Law), an extend lease to induce the tenant to make improvements on the premises. 

IMPROVISATE:  Unpremeditated; impromptu; extempore. [R.] 

IMPROVISATE:  To improvise; to extemporize. 

IMPROVISATIZE:  Same as Improvisate. 

IMPROVISATOR:  An improviser, or improvvisatore. 

IMPROVISATORE:  See Improvvisatore.  IMPROVISATORIAL; IMPROVISATORY Im*prov`i*sa*to"ri*al, Im*prov"i*sa*to*ry, a.  Of or pertaining to improvisation or extemporaneous composition. 

IMPROVISATRICE:  See Improvvisatrice. 

IMPROVISE:  To produce or render extemporaneous compositions, especially in verse or in music, without previous preparation; hence, to do anything offhand. 

IMPROVISER:  One who improvises. 

IMPROVISION:  Improvidence. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

IMPROVISO:  Not prepared or mediated beforehand; extemporaneous. [Obs.] Jonhson. 

IMPROVVISATORE:  One who composes and sings or recites rhymes and short poems extemporaneously. [Written also improvisatore.] 

IMPROVVISATRICE:  A female improvvisatore. [Written also improvisatrice.] 

IMPRUDENCE:  The quality or state of being imprudent; want to caution, circumspection, or a due regard to consequences; indiscretion; inconsideration; reshness; also, an imprudent act; as, he was guilty of an imprudence. His serenity was interrupted, perhaps, by his own imprudence. Mickle. 

IMPRUDENT:  Not prudent; wanting in prudence or discretion; indiscreet; injudicious; not attentive to consequence; improper.  -- Im*pru"dent*ly, adv. Her majesty took a great dislike at the imprudent behavior of many of the ministers and readers. Strype.  Syn.  -- Indiscreet; injudicious; incautious; ill-advised; unwise; heedless; careless; rash; negligent. 

IMPUBERAL:  Not having arrived at puberty; immature. In impuberal animals the cerebellum is, in proportion to the brain proper, greatly less than in adults. Sir W. Hamilton. 

IMPUBERTY:  The condition of not having reached puberty, or the age of ability to reproduce one's species; want of age at which the marriage contract can be legally entered into. 

IMPUDENCE:  The quality of being impudent; assurance, accompanied with a disregard of the presence or opinions of others; shamelessness; forwardness; want of modesty. Clear truths that their own evidence forces us to admit, or common experience makes it impudence to deny. Locke. Where pride and impudence (in fashion knit) Usurp the chair of wit. B. Jonson.  Syn.  -- Shamelessness; audacity; insolence; effrontery; sauciness; impertinence; pertness; rudeness.  -- Impudence, Effrontery, Sauciness. Impudence refers more especially to the feelings as manifested in action. Effrontery applies to some gross and public exhibition of shamelessness. Sauciness refers to a sudden pert outbreak of impudence, especially from an inferior. Impudence is an unblushing kind of impertinence, and may be manifested in words, tones, gestures, looks, etc. Effrontery rises still higher, and shows a total or shameless disregard of duty or decorum under the circumstances of the case. Sauciness discovers itself toward particular individuals, in certain relations; as in the case of servants who are saucy to their masters, or children who are saucy to their teachers. See Impertinent, and Insolent. 

IMPUDENCY:  Impudence. [Obs.] Burton. Audacious without impudency. Shak. 

IMPUDENT:  Bold, with contempt or disregard; unblushingly forward; impertinent; wanting modesty; shameless; saucy. More than impudent sauciness. Shak. When we behold an angel, not to fear Is to be impudent. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Shameless; audacious; brazen; bold-faced; pert; immodest; rude; saucy; impertinent; insolent. 

IMPUDENTLY:  In an impudent manner; with unbecoming assurance; shamelessly. At once assail With open mouths, and impudently rail. Sandys. 

IMPUDICITY:  Immodesty. Sheldon. 

IMPUGN:  To attack by words or arguments; to contradict; to assail; to call in question; to make insinuations against; to gainsay; to oppose. The truth hereof I will net rashly pugn, or overboldly affirm. Peacham. 

IMPUGNABLE:  Capable of being impugned; that may be gainsaid. 

IMPUGNATION:  Act of impugning; opposition; attack. [Obs.] A perpetual impugnation and self-conflict. Bp. Hall. 

IMPUGNER:  One who impugns. 

IMPUGNMENT:  The act of impugning, or the state of being impugned. Ed. Rev. 

IMPUISSANCE:  Lack of power; inability. Bacon. Their own impuissance and weakness. Holland. 

IMPUISSANT:  Weak; impotent; feeble. 

IMPULSE:  The action of a force during a very small interval of time; the effect of such action; as, the impulse of a sudden blow upon a hard elastic body.  4. A mental force which simply and directly urges to action; hasty inclination; sudden motive; momentary or transient influence of appetite or passion; propension; incitement; as, a man of good impulses; passion often gives a violent impulse to the will. These were my natural impulses for the undertaking. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Force; incentive; influence; motive; feeling; incitement; instigation. 

IMPULSE:  To impel; to incite. [Obs.] Pope. 

IMPULSIVE:  Acting momentarily, or by impulse; not continuous; -- said of forces. 

IMPULSIVE:  That which impels or gives an impulse; an impelling agent. Sir W. Wotton. 

IMPULSIVELY:  In an impulsive manner. 

IMPULSIVENESS:  The quality of being impulsive. 

IMPULSOR:  One who, or that which, impels; an inciter. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

IMPUNCTATE:  Not punctuate or dotted. 

IMPUNCTUAL:  Not punctual. [R.] 

IMPUNCTUALITY:  Neglect of, or failure in, punctuality. [R.] A. Hamilton. 

IMPUNE:  Unpunished. [R.] 

IMPUNIBLY:  Without punishment; with impunity. [Obs.] J. Ellis. 

IMPUNITY:  Exemption or freedom from punishment, harm, or loss. Heaven, though slow to wrath, Is neimpunity defied. Cowper. The impunity and also the recompense. Holland. 

IMPURATION:  Defilement; obscuration. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

IMPURE:  Not purified according to the ceremonial law of Moses; unclean.  5. (Language)  Not accurate; not idiomatic; as, impure Latin; an impure style. 

IMPURE:  To defile; to pollute. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

IMPURELY:  In an impure manner. 

IMPURENESS:  The quality or condition of being impure; impurity. Milton. 

IMPURITY:  Want of ceremonial purity; defilement. 

IMPURPLE:  To color or tinge with purple; to make red or reddish; to purple; as, a field impurpled with blood. Impurpled with celestial roses, smiled. Milton. The silken fleece impurpled for the loom. Pope. 

IMPUTABILITY:  The quality of being imputable; imputableness. 

IMPUTABLENESS:  Quality of being imputable. 

IMPUTABLY:  By imputation. 

IMPUTATION:  A setting of something to the account of; the attribution of personal guilt or personal righteousness of another; as, the imputation of the sin of Adam, or the righteousness of Christ.  4. Opinion; intimation; hint. 

IMPUTATIVE:  Transferred by imputation; that may be imputed.  -- Im*put"a*tive*ly, adv. Actual righteousness as well as imputative. Bp. Warburton. 

IMPUTE:  To adjudge as one's own (the sin or righteousness) of another; as, the righteousness of Christ is imputed to us. It was imputed to him for righteousness. Rom. iv. 22. They merit Imputed shall absolve them who renounce Their own, both righteous and unrighteous deeds. Milton.  3. To take account of; to consider; to regard. [R.] If we impute this last humiliation as the cause of his death. Gibbon.  Syn.  -- To ascribe; attribute; charge; reckon; consider; imply; insinuate; refer. See Ascribe. 

IMPUTER:  One who imputes. 

IMPUTRESCIBLE:  Not putrescible. 

IMRIGH:  A peculiar strong soup or broth, made in Scotland. [Written also imrich.]  IN- In-. Etym: [See In, prep. Cf. Em-, En-.]  A prefix from Eng. prep. in, also from Lat. prep. in, meaning in, into, on, among; as, inbred, inborn, inroad; incline, inject, intrude. In words from the Latin, in- regularly becomes il- before l, ir- before r, and im- before a labial; as, illusion, irruption, imblue, immigrate, impart. In- is sometimes used with an simple intensive force.  IN- In-. Etym: [L. in-; akin to E. un-. See Un-.]  An inseparable prefix, or particle, meaning not, non-, un- as, inactive, incapable, inapt. In- regularly becomes il- before l, ir- before r, and im- before a labial.  -IN -in.  A suffix. See the Note under -ine. 

IN:  The specific signification of in is situation or place with respect to surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying being, resting, or moving within limits, or within circumstances or conditions of any kind conceived of as limiting, confining, or investing, either wholly or in part. In its different applications, it approaches some of the meanings of, and sometimes is interchangeable with, within, into, on, at, of, and among. It is used: --  1. With reference to space or place; as, he lives in Boston; he traveled in Italy; castles in the air. The babe lying in a manger. Luke ii. 16. Thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west. Shak. Situated in the forty-first degree of latitude. Gibbon. Matter for censure in every page. Macaulay.  2. With reference to circumstances or conditions; as, he is in difficulties; she stood in a blaze of light. "Fettered in amorous chains." Shak. Wrapt in sweet sounds, as in bright veils. Shelley.  3. With reference to a whole which includes or comprises the part spoken of; as, the first in his family; the first regiment in the army. Nine in ten of those who enter the ministry. Swift.  4. With reference to physical surrounding, personal states, etc., abstractly denoted; as, I am in doubt; the room is in darkness; to live in fear. When shall we three meet again, In thunder, lightning, or in rain Shak.  5. With reference to character, reach, scope, or influence considered as establishing a limitation; as, to be in one's favor. "In sight of God's high throne." Milton. Sounds inharmonious in themselves, and harsh. Cowper.  6. With reference to movement or tendency toward a certain limit or environment; -- sometimes equivalent to into; as, to put seed in the ground; to fall in love; to end in death; to put our trust in God. He would not plunge his brother in despair. Addison. She had no jewels to deposit in their caskets. Fielding.  7. With reference to a limit of time; as, in an hour; it happened in the last century; in all my life. In as much as, or Inasmuch as, in the degree that; in like manner as; in consideration that; because that; since. See Synonym of Because, and cf. For as much as, under For, prep.  -- In that, because; for the reason that. "Some things they do in that they are men . . . ; some things in that they are men misled and blinded with error." Hooker.  -- In the name of, in behalf of; on the part of; by authority; as, it was done in the name of the people; -- often used in invocation, swearing, praying, and the like.  -- To be in for it. (a) To be in favor of a thing; to be committed to a course. (b) To be unable to escape from a danger, penalty, etc. [Colloq.] -- To be (or keep) in with. (a) To be close or near; as, to keep a ship in with the land. (b) To be on terms of friendship, familiarity, or intimacy with; to secure and retain the favor of. [Colloq.]  Syn.  -- Into; within; on; at. See At. 

IN:  With privilege or possession; -- used to denote a holding, possession, or seisin; as, in by descent; in by purchase; in of the seisin of her husband. Burrill. In and in breeding. See under Breeding.  -- In and out (Naut.), through and through; -- said of a through bolt in a ship's side. Knight.  -- To be in, to be at home; as, Mrs. A. is in.  -- To come in. See under Come. 

IN:  To inclose; to take in; to harvest. [Obs.] He that ears my land spares my team and gives me leave to in the crop. Shak. 

INABILITY:  The quality or state of being unable; lack of ability; want of sufficient power, strength, resources, or capacity. It is not from an inability to discover what they ought to do, that men err in practice. Blair.  Syn.  -- Impotence; incapacity; incompetence; weakness; powerlessness; incapability. See Disability. 

INABLE:  See Enable. 

INABLEMENT:  See Enablement. [Obs.] 

INABSTINENCE:  Want of abstinence; indulgence. [Obs.] "The inabstinence of Eve." Milton. 

INABSTRACTED:  Not abstracted. 

INABUSIVELY:  Without abuse. 

INACCESSIBILITY:  The quality or state of being inaccessible; inaccessibleness. "The inaccessibility of the precipice." Bp. Butler. 

INACCESSIBLE:  Not accessible; not to be reached, obtained, or approached; as, an inaccessible rock, fortress, document, prince, etc.  -- In`ac*cess"i*ble*ness, n.  -- In`ac*cess"i*bly, adv. 

INACCORDANT:  Not accordant; discordant. 

INACCURATE:  Not accurate; not according to truth; inexact; incorrect; erroneous; as, in inaccurate man, narration, copy, judgment, calculation, etc. The expression is plainly inaccurate. Bp. Hurd.  Syn.  -- Inexact; incorrect; erroneous; faulty; imperfect; incomplete; defective. 

INACCURATELY:  In an inaccurate manner; incorrectly; inexactly. 

INACQUAINTANCE:  Want of acquaintance. Good. 

INACQUIESCENT:  Not acquiescent or acquiescing. 

INACTION:  Want of action or activity; forbearance from labor; idleness; rest; inertness. Berkeley. 

INACTIVE:  Not active; inert; esp., not exhibiting any action or activity on polarized light; optically neutral; -- said of isomeric forms of certain substances, in distinction from other forms which are optically active; as, racemic acid is an inactive tartaric acid.  Syn.  -- Inert; dull; sluggish; idle; indolent; slothful; lazy. See Inert. 

INACTIVELY:  In an inactive manner. Locke. 

INACTOSE:  A variety of sugar, found in certain plants. It is optically inactive. 

INACTUATE:  To put in action. [Obs.] 

INACTUATION:  Operation. [Obs.] 

INADAPTATION:  Want of adaptation; unsuitableness. 

INADEQUACY:  The quality or state of being inadequate or insufficient; defectiveness; insufficiency; inadequateness. The inadequacy and consequent inefficacy of the alleged causes. Dr. T. Dwight. 

INADEQUATE:  Not adequate; unequal to the purpose; insufficient; deficient; as, inadequate resources, power, conceptions, representations, etc. Dryden.  -- In*ad"e*quate*ly, adv.  -- In*ad"e*quate*ness, n. 

INADEQUATION:  Want of exact correspondence. [Obs.] Puller. 

INADHERENT:  Free; not connected with the other organs. 

INADHESION:  Want of adhesion. 

INADMISSIBILITY:  The state or quality of being inadmissible, or not to be received. 

INADMISSIBLE:  Not admissible; not proper to be admitted, allowed, or received; as, inadmissible testimony; an inadmissible proposition, or explanation.  -- In`ad*mis"si*bly, adv.  INADVERTENCE; INADVERTENCY In`ad*vert"ence; pl. -ces (, In`ad*vert"en*cy; pl. -cies (, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inadvertance.]  1. The quality of being inadvertent; lack of heedfulness or attentiveness; inattention; negligence; as, many mistakes proceed from inadvertence. Inadvertency, or want of attendance to the sense and intention of our prayers. Jer. Taylor.  2. An effect of inattention; a result of carelessness; an oversight, mistake, or fault from negligence. The productions of a great genius, with many lapses an inadvertencies, are infinitely preferable to works of an inferior kind of author which are scrupulously exact. Addison.  Syn.  -- Inattention; heedlessness; carelessness; negligence; thoughtlessness. See Inattention. 

INADVERTENT:  Not turning the mind to a matter; heedless; careless; negligent; inattentive. An inadvertent step may crush the snail That crawls at evening in the public path. Cowper. -- In`ad*vert"ent*ly, adv. 

INADVISABLE:  Not advisable.  -- In`ad*vis"a*ble*ness, n. 

INAFFABILITY:  Want of affability or sociability; reticence. 

INAFFABLE:  Not affable; reserved in social intercourse. 

INAFFECTATION:  Freedom from affectation; naturalness. [R.] 

INAFFECTED:  Unaffected. [Obs.] -- In`af*fect"ed*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

INAIDABLE:  Incapable of being assisted; helpless. [R.] Shak. 

INALIENABILITY:  The quality or state of being inalienable. 

INALIENABLE:  Incapable of being alienated, surrendered, or transferred to another; not alienable; as, in inalienable birthright. 

INALIENABLENESS:  The quality or state of being inalienable; inalienability. 

INALIENABLY:  In a manner that forbids alienation; as, rights inalienably vested. 

INALIMENTAL:  Affording no aliment or nourishment. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INALTERABILITY:  The quality of being unalterable or unchangeable; permanence. 

INALTERABLE:  Not alterable; incapable of being altered or changed; unalterable.  -- In*al"ter*a*ble*ness, n.  -- In*al"ter*a*bly, adv. 

INAMIABLE:  Unamiable. [Obs.] -- In*a"mi*a*ble*ness, n. [Obs.] 

INAMISSIBLE:  Incapable of being lost. [R.] Hammond.  -- In`a*mis"si*ble*ness, n. [R.] 

INAMORATA:  A woman in love; a mistress. "The fair inamorata." Sherburne. 

INAMORATE:  Enamored. Chapman.  -- In*am"o*rate*ly, adv. [R.] 

INAMORATO:  A male lover. 

INAMOVABLE:  Not amovable or removable. [R.] Palgrave.  IN-AND-IN In"-and-in", n.  An old game played with four dice. In signified a doublet, or two dice alike; in-and-in, either two doubles, or the four dice alike.  IN AND IN In and an, a. & adv.  Applied to breeding from a male and female of the same parentage. See under Breeding. 

INANE:  Without contents; empty; void of sense or intelligence; purposeless; pointless; characterless; useless. "Vague and inane instincts." I. Taylor.  -- In*ane"ly, adv. 

INANE:  That which is void or empty. [R.] The undistinguishable inane of infinite space. Locke. 

INANGULAR:  Not angular. [Obs.]  INANILOQUENT; INANILOQUOUS In`a*nil"o*quent, In`a*nil"o*quous, a. Etym: [L. inanis empty + loqui to speak.]  Given to talking inanely; loquacious; garrulous. [R.] 

INANIMATE:  To animate. [Obs.] Donne. 

INANIMATE:  Not animate; destitute of life or spirit; lifeless; dead; inactive; dull; as, stones and earth are inanimate substances. Grieving, if aught inanimate e'er grieves. Byron.  Syn.  -- Lifeless; dead; inert; inactive; dull; soulless; spiritless. See Lifeless. 

INANIMATED:  Destitute of life; lacking animation; unanimated. Pope. 

INANIMATENESS:  The quality or state of being inanimate. The deadness and inanimateness of the subject. W. Montagu. 

INANIMATION:  Want of animation; lifeless; dullness. 

INANIMATION:  Infusion of life or vigor; animation; inspiration. [Obs.] The inanimation of Christ living and breathing within us. Bp. Hall. 

INANITIATE:  To produce inanition in; to exhaust for want of nourishment. [R.] 

INANITIATION:  Inanition. [R.] 

INANITION:  The condition of being inane; emptiness; want of fullness, as in the vessels of the body; hence, specifically, exhaustion from want of food, either from partial or complete starvation, or from a disorder of the digestive apparatus, producing the same result. Feeble from inanition, inert from weariness. Landor. Repletion and inanition may both do harm in two contrary extremes. Burton. 

INANTHERATE:  Not bearing anthers; -- said of sterile stamens.  IN ANTIS In an"tis. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)  Between antæ; -- said of a portico in classical style, where columns are set between two antæ, forming the angles of the building. See Anta. 

INAPATHY:  Sensibility; feeling; -- opposed to apathy. [R.] 

INAPPEALABLE:  Not admitting of appeal; not appealable. Coleridge. 

INAPPEASABLE:  Incapable of being appeased or satisfied; unappeasable. 

INAPPELLABILITY:  The quality of being inappellable; finality. The inappellability of the councils. Coleridge. 

INAPPELLABLE:  Inappealable; final.  INAPPETENCE; INAPPETENCY In*ap"pe*tence, In*ap"pe*ten*cy, n. Etym: [Pref. in- not + appetence: cf. F. inappétence.]  Want of appetency; want of desire. 

INAPPLICABILITY:  The quality of being inapplicable; unfitness; inapplicableness. 

INAPPLICABLE:  Not applicable; incapable of being applied; not adapted; not suitable; as, the argument is inapplicable to the case. J. S. Mill.  Syn.  -- Unsuitable; unsuited; unadapted; inappropriate; inapposite; irrelevant.  -- In*ap"pli*ca*ble*ness, n.  -- In*ap"pli*ca*bly, adv. 

INAPPLICATION:  Want of application, attention, or diligence; negligence; indolence. 

INAPPOSITE:  Not apposite; not fit or suitable; not pertinent.  -- In*ap"po*site*ly, adv. 

INAPPRECIABLE:  Not appreciable; too small to be perceived; incapable of being duly valued or estimated. Hallam. 

INAPPRECIATION:  Want of appreciation. 

INAPPREHENSIBLE:  Not apprehensible; unintelligible; inconceivable. Milton. 

INAPPREHENSION:  Want of apprehension. 

INAPPREHENSIVE:  Not apprehensive; regardless; unconcerned. Jer. Taylor. 

INAPPROACHABLE:  Not approachable; unapproachable; inaccessible; unequaled.  -- In`ap*proach"a*bly, adv. 

INAPPROPRIATE:  Not instrument (to); not appropriate; unbecoming; unsuitable; not specially fitted; -- followed by to or for.  -- In`ap*pro"pri*ate*ly, adv.  -- In`ap*pro"pri*ate*ness, n. 

INAPT:  Unapt; not apt; unsuitable; inept.  -- In*apt"ly, adv.  -- In*apt"ness, n. 

INAPTITUDE:  Want of aptitude. 

INAQUATE:  Embodied in, or changed into, water. [Obs.] Cranmer. 

INAQUATION:  The state of being inaquate. [Obs.] Bp. Gardiner. 

INARABLE:  Not arable. [R.] 

INARCH:  To graft by uniting, as a scion, to a stock, without separating either from its root before the union is complete; -- also called to graft by approach. P. Miler. 

INARCHING:  A method of ingrafting. See Inarch. 

INARTICULATED:  Not articulated; not jointed or connected by a joint. 

INARTICULATELY:  In an inarticulate manner. Hammond. 

INARTICULATENESS:  The state or quality of being inarticulate. 

INARTICULATION:  Inarticulateness. Chesterfield. 

INARTIFICIAL:  Not artificial; not made or elaborated by art; natural; simple; artless; as, an inartificial argument; an inartificial character.  -- In*ar`ti*fi"cial*ly, adv.  -- In*ar`ti*fi"cial*ness, n. 

INASMUCH:  In like degree; in like manner; seeing that; considering that; since; -- followed by as. See In as much as, under In, prep. Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me. Matt. xxv. 45.  Syn.  -- Because; since; for; as. See Because. 

INATTENTION:  Want of attention, or failure to pay attention; disregard; heedlessness; neglect. Novel lays attract our ravished ears; But old, the mind inattention hears. Pope.  Syn.  -- Inadvertence; heedlessness; negligence; carelessness; disregard; remissness; thoughtlessness; neglect.  -- Inattention, Inadvertence. We miss seeing a thing through inadvertence when do not happen to look at it; through inattention when we give no heed to it, though directly before us. The latter is therefore the worse. Inadvertence may be an involuntary accident; inattention is culpable neglect. A versatile mind is often inadvertent; a careless or stupid one is inattentive. 

INATTENTIVE:  Not attentive; not fixing the mind on an object; heedless; careless; negligent; regardless; as, an inattentive spectator or hearer; an inattentive habit. I. Watts.  Syn.  -- Careless; heedless; regardless; thoughtless; negligent; remiss; inadvertent.  -- In`at*ten"tive*ly, adv.  -- In`at*ten"tive*ness, n. 

INAUDIBILITY:  The quality of being inaudible; inaudibleness. 

INAUDIBLE:  Not audible; incapable of being heard; silent.  -- In*au"di*ble*ness, n.  -- In*au"di*bly, adv. 

INAUGUR:  To inaugurate. [Obs.] Latimer. 

INAUGURAL:  Pertaining to, or performed or pronounced at, an inauguration; as, an inaugural address; the inaugural exercises. 

INAUGURAL:  An inaugural address. [U.S.] 

INAUGURATE:  Invested with office; inaugurated. Drayton. 

INAUGURATION:  The day on which the President of the United States is inaugurated, the 4th of March in every year next after a year divisible by four. 

INAUGURATOR:  One who inaugurates. 

INAUGURATORY:  Suitable for, or pertaining to, inauguration. Johnson. 

INAURATE:  Covered with gold; gilded. 

INAURATE:  To cover with gold; to gild. 

INAURATION:  The act or process of gilding or covering with gold. 

INAUSPICATE:  Inauspicious [Obs.] Sir G. Buck. 

INAUSPICIOUS:  Not auspicious; ill-omened; unfortunate; unlucky; unfavorable. "Inauspicious stars." Shak. "Inauspicious love." Dryden.  -- In`aus*pi"cious*ly, adv.  -- In`aus*pi"cious*ness, n. 

INAUTHORITATIVE:  Without authority; not authoritative. 

INBARGE:  To embark; to go or put into a barge. [Obs.] Drayton. 

INBEAMING:  Shining in. South. 

INBEING:  Inherence; inherent existence. I. Watts. 

INBIND:  To inclose. [Obs.] Fairfax. 

INBLOWN:  Blown in or into. [Obs.] 

INBOARD:  Inside the line of a vessel's bulwarks or hull; the opposite of outboard; as, an inboard cargo; haul the boom inboard.  2. (Mech.)  From without inward; toward the inside; as, the inboard stroke of a steam engine piston, the inward or return stroke. 

INBORN:  Born in or with; implanted by nature; innate; as, inborn passions. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Innate; inherent; natural.  INBREAK; INBREAKING In"break`, In"break`ing, n.  A breaking in; inroad; invasion. 

INBREATHE:  To infuse by breathing; to inspire. Coleridge. 

INBRED:  Bred within; innate; as, inbred worth. "Inbred sentiments." Burke. 

INBURNING:  Burning within. Her inburning wrath she gan abate. Spenser. 

INBURNT:  Burnt in; ineffaceable. Her inburnt, shamefaced thoughts. P. Fletcher. 

INBURST:  A bursting in or into. 

INC:  A Japanese measure of length equal to about two and one twelfth yards. [Written also ink.] 

INCA:  The people governed by the Incas, now represented by the Quichua tribe. Inca dove (Zoöl.), a small dove (Scardafella inca), native of Arizona, Lower California, and Mexico. 

INCAGE:  To confine in, or as in, a cage; to coop up. [Written also encage.] "Incaged birds." Shak. 

INCAGEMENT:  Confinement in, or as in, cage. [Obs.] Shelton. 

INCALCULABILITY:  The quality or state of being incalculable. 

INCALCULABLE:  Not capable of being calculated; beyond calculation; very great.  -- In*cal"cu*la*ble*ness, n.  -- In*cal"cu*la*bly, adv. 

INCALESCENCE:  The state of being incalescent, or of growing warm. Sir T. Browne. 

INCALESCENCY:  Incalescence. Ray. 

INCALESCENT:  Growing warm; increasing in heat. 

INCAMERATION:  The act or process of uniting lands, rights, or revenues, to the ecclesiastical chamber, i. e., to the pope's domain. 

INCAN:  Of or pertaining to the Incas. 

INCANDESCENCE:  A white heat, or the glowing or luminous whiteness of a body caused by intense heat. 

INCANDESCENT:  White, glowing, or luminous, with intense heat; as, incandescent carbon or platinum; hence, clear; shining; brilliant. Holy Scripture become resplendent; or, as one might say, incandescent throughout. I. Taylor. Incandescent lamp or light (Elec.), a kind of lamp in which the light is produced by a thin filament of conducting material, usually carbon, contained in a vacuum, and heated to incandescence by an electric current, as in the Edison lamp; -- called also incandescence lamp, and glowlamp. 

INCANESCENT:  Becoming hoary or gray; canescent. 

INCANOUS:  Hoary with white pubescence. 

INCANTATORY:  Dealing by enchantment; magical. Sir T. Browne. 

INCANTING:  Enchanting. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 

INCANTON:  To unite to, or form into, a canton or separate community. Addison. 

INCAPABILITY:  Want of legal qualifications, or of legal power; as, incapability of holding an office. 

INCAPABLE:  Unqualified or disqualified, in a legal sense; as, a man under thirty-five years of age is incapable of holding the office of president of the United States; a person convicted on impeachment is thereby made incapable of holding an office of profit or honor under the government.  5. (Mil.)  As a term of disgrace, sometimes annexed to a sentence when an officer has been cashiered and rendered incapable of serving his country.  Note: Incapable is often used elliptically. Is not your father grown incapable of reasonable affairs Shak.  Syn.  -- Incompetent; unfit; unable; insufficient; inadequate; deficient; disqualified. See Incompetent. 

INCAPABLE:  One who is morally or mentally weak or inefficient; an imbecile; a simpleton. 

INCAPABLENESS:  The quality or state of being incapable; incapability. 

INCAPABLY:  In an incapable manner. 

INCAPACIOUS:  Not capacious; narrow; small; weak or foolish; as, an incapacious soul. Bp. Burnet.  -- In`ca*pa"cious*ness, n. 

INCAPACITATE:  To deprive of legal or constitutional requisites, or of ability or competency for the performance of certain civil acts; to disqualify. It absolutely incapacitated them from holding rank, office, function, or property. Milman. 

INCAPACITATION:  The act of incapacitating or state of being incapacitated; incapacity; disqualification. Burke. 

INCAPACITY:  Want of legal ability or competency to do, give, transmit, or receive something; inability; disqualification; as, the inacapacity of minors to make binding contracts, etc.  Syn.  -- Inability; incapability; incompetency; unfitness; disqualification; disability. 

INCAPSULATE:  To inclose completely, as in a membrane. 

INCAPSULATION:  The process of becoming, or the state or condition of being, incapsulated; as, incapsulation of the ovum in the uterus. 

INCARCERATE:  Imprisoned. Dr. H. More. 

INCARCERATOR:  One who incarcerates. 

INCARN:  To cover or invest with flesh. [R.] Wiseman. 

INCARN:  To develop flesh. [R.] Wiseman. 

INCARNADINE:  Flesh-colored; of a carnation or pale red color. [Obs.] Lovelace. 

INCARNADINE:  To dye red or crimson. Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand No; this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas incarnadine, Making the green one red. Shak. 

INCARNATE:  Not in the flesh; spiritual. [Obs.] I fear nothing . . . that devil carnate or incarnate can fairly do. Richardson. 

INCARNATE:  To clothe with flesh; to embody in flesh; to invest, as spirits, ideals, etc., with a human from or nature. This essence to incarnate and imbrute, That to the height of deity aspired. Milton. 

INCARNATE:  To form flesh; to granulate, as a wound. [R.] My uncle Toby's wound was nearly well -- 't was just beginning to incarnate. Sterne. 

INCARNATION:  The union of the second person of the Godhead with manhood in Christ.  3. An incarnate form; a personification; a manifestation; a reduction to apparent from; a striking exemplification in person or act. She is a new incarnation of some of the illustrious dead. Jeffrey. The very incarnation of selfishness. F. W. Robertson.  4. A rosy or red color; flesh color; carnation. [Obs.]  5. (Med.)  The process of healing wounds and filling the part with new flesh; granulation. 

INCARNATIVE:  Causing new flesh to grow; healing; regenerative.  -- n.  An incarnative medicine. 

INCARNIFICATION:  The act of assuming, or state of being clothed with, flesh; incarnation. 

INCASE:  To inclose in a case; to inclose; to cover or surround with something solid. Rich plates of gold the folding doors incase. Pope. 

INCASK:  To cover with a casque or as with a casque. Sherwood. 

INCASTELLATED:  Confined or inclosed in a castle. 

INCASTELLED:  Hoofbound. Crabb. 

INCATENATION:  The act of linking together; enchaining. [R.] Goldsmith. 

INCAUTION:  Want of caution. Pope. 

INCAUTIOUS:  Not cautious; not circumspect; not attending to the circumstances on which safety and interest depend; heedless; careless; as, an incautious step; an incautious remark.  You . . . incautious tread On fire with faithless embers overspread. Francis. His rhetorical expressions may easily captivate any incautious reader. Keill.  Syn.  -- Unwary; indiscreet; inconsiderate; imprudent; impolitic; careless; heedless; thoughtless.  -- In*cau"tious*ly, adv.  -- In*cau"tious*ness, n. 

INCAVATED:  Made hollow; bent round or in. 

INCAVATION:  Act of making hollow; also, a hollow; an exvation; a depression. 

INCAVED:  Inclosed in a cave. 

INCAVERNED:  Inclosed or shut up as in a cavern. Drayton. 

INCEDINGLY:  Majestically. [R.] C. Bronté. 

INCELEBRITY:  Want of celebrity or distinction; obscurity. [R.] Coleridge. 

INCEND:  To inflame; to excite. [Obs.] Marston. 

INCENDIARISM:  The act or practice of maliciously setting fires; arson. 

INCENDIOUS:  Promoting faction or contention; seditious; inflammatory. [Obs.] Bacon.  -- In*cen"di*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

INCENSANT:  A modern term applied to animals (as a boar) when borne as raging, or with furious aspect. 

INCENSATION:  The offering of incense. [R.] Encyc. Brit. 

INCENSE:  Breathing or exhaling incense. "Incense-breathing morn." Gray. 

INCENSED:  Represented as enraged, as any wild creature depicted with fire issuing from mouth and eyes. 

INCENSEMENT:  Fury; rage; heat; exasperation; as, implacable incensement. Shak. 

INCENSER:  One who instigates or incites. 

INCENSION:  The act of kindling, or the state of being kindled or on fire. Bacon. 

INCENSIVE:  Tending to excite or provoke; inflammatory. Barrow. 

INCENSOR:  A kindler of anger or enmity; an inciter. 

INCENSORY:  The vessel in which incense is burned and offered; a censer; a thurible. [R.] Evelyn. 

INCENSURABLE:  Not censurable. Dr. T. Dwight.  -- In*cen"sur*a*bly, adv. 

INCENTER:  The center of the circle inscribed in a triangle. 

INCENTIVE:  That which moves or influences the mind, or operates on the passions; that which incites, or has a tendency to incite, to determination or action; that which prompts to good or ill; motive; spur; as, the love of money, and the desire of promotion, are two powerful incentives to action. The greatest obstacles, the greatest terrors that come in their way, are so far from making them quit the work they had begun, that they rather prove incentives to them to go on in it. South.  Syn.  -- Motive; spur; stimulus; incitement; encouragement; inducement; influence. 

INCENTIVELY:  Incitingly; encouragingly. 

INCEPTIVE:  Beginning; expressing or indicating beginning; as, an inceptive proposition; an inceptive verb, which expresses the beginning of action; -- called also inchoative.  -- In*cep"tive*ly, adv. 

INCEPTIVE:  An inceptive word, phrase, or clause. 

INCERATION:  The act of smearing or covering with wax. B. Jonson. 

INCERATIVE:  Cleaving or sticking like wax. Cotgrave. 

INCERTAIN:  Uncertain; doubtful; unsteady.  -- In*cer"tain*ly, adv. Very questionable and of uncertain truth. Sir T. Browne. 

INCERTAINTY:  Uncertainty. [Obs.] Shak. 

INCERTITUDE:  Uncertainty; doubtfulness; doubt. The incertitude and instability of this life. Holland. He fails . . . from mere incertitude or irresolution. I. Taylor. 

INCERTUM:  Doubtful; not of definite form. Opus incertum (Anc. Arch.), a kind of masonry employed in building walls, in which the stones were not squared nor laid in courses; rubblework. 

INCESSABLE:  Unceasing; continual. [Obs.] Shelton.  -- In*ces"sa*bly, adv. [Obs.] 

INCESSANCY:  The quality of being incessant; unintermitted continuance; unceasingness. Dr. T. Dwight. 

INCESSANT:  Continuing or following without interruption; unceasing; unitermitted; uninterrupted; continual; as, incessant clamors; incessant pain, etc. Against the castle gate, . . . Which with incessant force and endless hate, They batter'd day and night and entrance did await. Spenser.  Syn.  -- Unceasing; uninterrupted; unintermitted; unremitting; ceaseless; continual; constant; perpetual. 

INCESSANTLY:  Unceasingly; continually. Shak. 

INCESSION:  Motion on foot; progress in walking. [Obs.] The incession or local motion of animals. Sir T. Browne. 

INCEST:  The crime of cohabitation or sexual commerce between persons related within the degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law. Shak. Spiritual incest. (Eccl. Law) (a) The crime of cohabitation committed between persons who have a spiritual alliance by means of baptism or confirmation. (b) The act of a vicar, or other beneficiary, who holds two benefices, the one depending on the collation of the other. 

INCESTTUOUS:  Guilty of incest; involving, or pertaining to, the crime of incest; as, an incestuous person or connection. Shak. Ere you reach to this incestuous love, You must divine and human rights remove. Dryden. -- In*cest"tu*ous*ly, adv.  -- In*cest"tu*ous*ness, n. 

INCH:  An island; -- often used in the names of small islands off the coast of Scotland, as in Inchcolm, Inchkeith, etc. [Scot.] 

INCH:  To advance or retire by inches or small degrees; to move slowly. With slow paces measures back the field, And inches to the walls. Dryden. 

INCH:  Measurement an inch in any dimension, whether length, breadth, or thickness; -- used in composition; as, a two-inch cable; a four- inch plank. Inch stuff, boards, etc., sawed one inch thick. 

INCHAMBER:  To lodge in a chamber. [R.] Sherwood. 

INCHANGEABILITY:  Unchangeableness. [Obs.] Kenrick. 

INCHANT:  See Enchant. 

INCHARITABLE:  Uncharitable; unfeeling. [Obs.] Shak. 

INCHARITY:  Want of charity. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

INCHASE:  See Enchase. 

INCHASTITY:  Unchastity. [Obs.] Milton. 

INCHED:  Having or measuring (so many) inches; as, a four-inched bridge. Shak. 

INCHEST:  To put into a chest. 

INCHIPIN:  See Inchpin. 

INCHMEAL:  A piece an inch long. By inchmeal, by small degrees; by inches. Shak. 

INCHMEAL:  Little by little; gradually. 

INCHOATE:  Recently, or just, begun; beginning; partially but not fully in existence or operation; existing in its elements; incomplete.  -- In"cho*ate*ly, adv. Neither a substance perfect, nor a substance inchoate. Raleigh. 

INCHOATE:  To begin. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

INCHOATION:  Act of beginning; commencement; inception. The setting on foot some of those arts, in those parts, would be looked on as the first inchoation of them. Sir M. Hale. It is now in actual progress, from the rudest inchoation to the most elaborate finishing. I. Taylor. 

INCHOATIVE:  Expressing or pertaining to a beginning; inceptive; as, an inchoative verb. "Some inchoative or imperfect rays." W. Montagu.  -- n.  An inchoative verb. See Inceptive. 

INCHPIN:  The sweetbread of a deer. Cotgrave. 

INCHWORM:  The larva of any geometrid moth. See Geometrid. 

INCICURABLE:  Untamable. [R.] 

INCIDE:  To cut; to separate and remove; to resolve or break up, as by medicines. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. 

INCIDENCE:  The direction in which a body, or a ray of light or heat, falls on any surface. In equal incidences there is a considerable inequality of refractions. Sir I. Newton. Angle of incidence, the angle which a ray of light, or the line of incidence of a body, falling on any surface, makes with a perpendicular to that surface; also formerly, the complement of this angle.  -- Line of incidence, the line in the direction of which a surface is struck by a body, ray of light, and the like. 

INCIDENCY:  Incidence. [Obs.] Shak. 

INCIDENT:  Dependent upon, or appertaining to, another thing, called the principal. Incident proposition (Logic), a proposition subordinate to another, and introduced by who, which, whose, whom, etc.; as, Julius, whose surname was Cæsar, overcame Pompey. I. Watts. 

INCIDENT:  Something appertaining to, passing with, or depending on, another, called the principal. Tomlins.  Syn.  -- Circumstance; event; fact; adventure; contingency; chance; accident; casualty. See Event. 

INCIDENTAL:  Happening, as an occasional event, without regularity; coming without design; casual; accidental; hence, not of prime concern; subordinate; collateral; as, an incidental conversation; an incidental occurrence; incidental expenses. By some, religious duties . . . appear to be regarded . . . as an incidental business. Rogers.  Syn.  -- Accidental; casual; fortuitous; contingent; chance; collateral. See Accidental.  -- In`cen*den"tal*ly, adv.  -- In`cen*den"tal*ness, n. I treat either or incidentally of colors. Boyle. 

INCIDENTAL:  An incident; that which is incidental; esp., in the plural, an aggregate of subordinate or incidental items not particularized; as, the expense of tuition and incidentals. Pope. 

INCIDENTLY:  Incidentally. [Obs.] 

INCINERABLE:  Capable of being incinerated or reduced to ashes. Sir T. Browne. 

INCINERATE:  Reduced to ashes by burning; thoroughly consumed. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INCINERATE:  To burn to ashes; to consume; to burn. Bacon. It is the fire only that incinerates bodies. Boyle. 

INCINERATION:  The act of incinerating, or the state of being incinerated; cremation. The phenix kind, Of whose incineration, There riseth a new creation. Skelton.  INCIPIENCE; INCIPIENCY In*cip"i*ence, In*cip"i*en*cy, n. Etym: [L. incipientia.]  Beginning; commencement; incipient state. 

INCIPIENT:  Beginning to be, or to show itself; commencing; initial; as, the incipient stage of a fever; incipient light of day.  -- In*cip"i*ent*ly, adv. 

INCIRCLE:  See Encircle. 

INCIRCLET:  A small circle. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

INCIRCUMSCRIPTIBLE:  Incapable of being circumscribed or limited. Cranmer. 

INCIRCUMSCRIPTION:  Condition or quality of being incircumscriptible or limitless. Jer. Taylor. 

INCIRCUMSPECT:  Not circumspect; heedless; careless; reckless; impolitic. Tyndale. 

INCIRCUMSPECTION:  Want of circumspection. Sir T. Browne. 

INCISED:  Having deep and sharp notches, as a leaf or a petal. 

INCISELY:  In an incised manner. 

INCISIVE:  Of or pertaining to the incisors; incisor; as, the incisive bones, the premaxillaries. 

INCISOR:  One of the teeth in front of the canines in either jaw; an incisive tooth. See Tooth. 

INCISOR:  Adapted for cutting; of or pertaining to the incisors; incisive; as, the incisor nerve; an incisor foramen; an incisor tooth. 

INCISORY:  Having the quality of cutting; incisor; incisive. 

INCISURE:  A cut; an incision; a gash. Derham. 

INCITANT:  Inciting; stimulating. 

INCITANT:  That which incites; an inciting agent or cause; a stimulant. E. Darwin. 

INCITATIVE:  A provocative; an incitant; a stimulant. [R.] Jervas. 

INCITE:  To move to action; to stir up; to rouse; to spur or urge on. Anthiochus, when he incited Prusias to join in war, set before him the greatness of the Romans. Bacon. No blown ambition doth our arms incite. Shak.  Syn.  -- Excite; stimulate; instigate; spur; goad; arouse; move; urge; rouse; provoke; encourage; prompt; animate. See Excite. 

INCITER:  One who, or that which, incites. 

INCITINGLY:  So as to incite or stimulate.  INCITO-MOTOR In*ci`to-mo"tor, a. Etym: [L. incitus incited + E. motor.] (Physiol.)  Inciting to motion; -- applied to that action which, in the case of muscular motion, commences in the nerve centers, and excites the muscles to contraction. Opposed to excito-motor.  INCITO-MOTORY In*ci`to-mo"to*ry, a. (Physiol.)  Incitomotor. 

INCIVIL:  Uncivil; rude. [Obs.] Shak. 

INCIVILIZATION:  The state of being uncivilized; want of civilization; barbarism. 

INCIVILLY:  Uncivilly. [Obs.] Shak. 

INCIVISM:  Want of civism; want of patriotism or love to one's country; unfriendliness to one's state or government. [R.] Macaulay. 

INCLAMATION:  Exclamation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

INCLASP:  To clasp within; to hold fast to; to embrace or encircle. [Written also enclasp.] The flattering ivy who did ever see Inclasp the huge trunk of an aged tree. F. Beaumont. 

INCLAUDENT:  Not closing or shutting. 

INCLAVATED:  Set; fast; fixed. Dr. John Smith. 

INCLAVE:  Resembling a series of dovetails; -- said of a line of division, such as the border of an ordinary. 

INCLE:  Same as Inkle. 

INCLEMENTLY:  In an inclement manner. 

INCLINABLENESS:  The state or quality of being inclinable; inclination. 

INCLINATION:  The angle made by two lines or planes; as, the inclination of the plane of the earth's equator to the plane of the ecliptic is about 23º 28'; the inclination of two rays of light.  5. A leaning or tendency of the mind, feelings, preferences, or will; propensity; a disposition more favorable to one thing than to another; favor; desire; love. A mere inclination to a thing is not properly a willing of that thing. South. How dost thou find the inclination of the people Shak.  6. A person or thing loved or admired. Sir W. Temple.  7. (Pharm.)  Decantation, or tipping for pouring. Inclination compass, an inclinometer.  -- Inclination of an orbit (Astron.), the angle which the orbit makes the ecliptic.  -- Inclination of the needle. See Dip of the needle, under Dip.  Syn.  -- Bent; tendency; proneness; bias; proclivity; propensity; prepossession; predilection; attachment; desire; affection; love. See Bent, and cf. Disposition. 

INCLINATORY:  Having the quality of leaning or inclining; as, the inclinatory needle.  -- In*clin"a*to*ri*ly, adv. Sir T. Browne. 

INCLINE:  An inclined plane; an ascent o 

INCLINED:  Making an angle with some line or plane; -- said of a line or plane.  3. (Bot.)  Bent out of a perpendicular position, or into a curve with the convex side uppermost. Inclined plane. (Mech.) (a) A plane that makes an oblique angle with the plane of the horizon; a sloping plane. When used to produce pressure, or as a means of moving bodies, it is one of the mechanical powers, so called. (b) (Railroad & Canal) An inclined portion of track, on which trains or boats are raised or lowered from one level to another. 

INCLINER:  One who, or that which, inclines; specifically, an inclined dial. 

INCLINING:  Same as Inclined, 3. 

INCLINNOMETER:  An apparatus to determine the inclination of the earth's magnetic force to the plane of the horizon; -- called also inclination compass, and dip circle. 

INCLIP:  To clasp; to inclose. Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips. Shak. 

INCLOISTER:  To confine as in a cloister; to cloister. Lovelace. 

INCLOSER:  One who, or that which, incloses; one who fences off land from common grounds. 

INCLOUD:  To envelop as in clouds; to darken; to obscure. Milton. 

INCLUDED:  Inclosed; confined. Included stamens (Bot.), such as are shorter than the floral envelopes, or are concealed within them. 

INCLUDIBLE:  Capable of being included. 

INCLUSA:  A tribe of bivalve mollusks, characterized by the closed state of the mantle which envelops the body. The ship borer (Teredo navalis) is an example. 

INCLUSION:  A foreign substance, either liquid or solid, usually of minute size, inclosed in the mass of a mineral. 

INCLUSIVELY:  In an inclusive manner. 

INCOACH:  To put a coach.  INCOACT; INCOACTED In`co*act", In`co*act"ed, a. Etym: [L. incoactus; pref. in- not + coactus forced. See Coact.]  Not compelled; unconstrained. [Obs.] Coles. 

INCOAGULABLE:  Not coagulable. 

INCOALESCENCE:  The state of not coalescing. 

INCOCTED:  Raw; indigestible. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

INCOERCIBLE:  Not capable of being reduced to the form of a liquid by pressure; -- said of any gas above its critical point; -- also particularly of oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon monoxide, formerly regarded as incapable of liquefaction at any temperature or pressure.  3. (Physics)  That can note be confined in, or excluded from, vessels, like ordinary fluids, gases, etc.; -- said of the imponderable fluids, heat, light, electricity, etc. 

INCOEXISTENCE:  The state of not coexisting. [Obs.] Locke. 

INCOG:  Incognito. [Colloq.] Depend upon it -- he'll remain incog. Addison. 

INCOGITABLE:  Not cogitable; inconceivable. Sir T. More.  INCOGITANCE; INCOGITANCY In*cog"i*tance, In*cog"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [L. incogitantia.]  Want of thought, or of the power of thinking; thoughtlessness; unreasonableness. 'T is folly and incogitancy to argue anything, one way or the other, from the designs of a sort of beings with whom we so little communicate. Glanvill. 

INCOGITANT:  Toughtless; inconsiderate. [R.] Milton. Men are careless and incogitant. J. Goodman. 

INCOGITANTLY:  In an incogitant manner. 

INCOGITATIVE:  Not cogitative; not thinking; wanting the power of thought; as, a vegetable is an incogitative being. Locke. 

INCOGITATIVITY:  The quality of being incogitative; want of thought or of the power of thinking. Wollaston. 

INCOGNITANT:  Ignorant. [Obs.] 

INCOGNITO:  Without being known; in disguise; in an assumed character, or under an assumed title; -- said esp. of great personages who sometimes adopt a disguise or an assumed character in order to avoid notice. 'T was long ago Since gods come down incognito. Prior. The prince royal of Persia came thither incognito. Tatler. 

INCOGNIZABLE:  Not cognizable; incapable of being recognized, known, or distinguished. H. Spenser. The Lettish race, not a primitive stock of the Slavi, but a distinct branch, now become incognizable. Tooke. 

INCOGNIZANCE:  Failure to cognize, apprehended, or notice. This incognizance may be explained. Sir W. Hamilton. 

INCOGNIZANT:  Not cognizant; failing to apprehended or notice. Of the several operations themselves, as acts of volition, we are wholly incognizant. Sir W. Hamilton. 

INCOGNOSCIBLE:  Incognizable.  -- In`cog*nos"ci*bil"i*ty, n.  INCOHERENCE; INCOHERENCY In`co*her"ence, In`co*her"en*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incohérence.]  1. The quality or state of being incoherent; want of coherence; want of cohesion or adherence. Boyle.  2. Want of connection; incongruity; inconsistency; want of agreement or dependence of one part on another; as, the incoherence of arguments, facts, etc. Incoherences in matter, and suppositions without proofs, put handsomely together, are apt to pass for strong reason. Locke.  3. That which is incoherent. Crude incoherencies . . . and nauseous tautologies. South. 

INCOHERENTIFIC:  Causing incoherence. [R.] 

INCOHERENTLY:  In an incoherent manner; without due connection of parts. 

INCOHERENTNESS:  Incoherence. 

INCOINCIDENCE:  The quality of being incoincident; want of coincidence. [R.] 

INCOINCIDENT:  Not coincident; not agreeing in time, in place, or principle. 

INCOLUMITY:  Safety; security. [Obs.] Howell. 

INCOMBER:  See Encumber. 

INCOMBINE:  To be incapable of combining; to disagree; to differ. [Obs.] Milton. 

INCOMBUSTIBILITY:  The quality of being incombustible. 

INCOMBUSTIBLE:  Not combustible; not capable of being burned, decomposed, or consumed by fire; uninflammable; as, asbestus is an incombustible substance; carbon dioxide is an incombustible gas. Incombustible cloth, a tissue of amianthus or asbestus; also, a fabric imbued with an incombustible substance.  -- In`com*bus"ti*ble*ness, n.  -- In`com*bus"ti*bly, adv. 

INCOME:  That which is taken into the body as food; the ingesta; -- sometimes restricted to the nutritive, or digestible, portion of the food. See Food. Opposed to output. Income bond, a bond issued on the income of the corporation or company issuing it, and the interest of which is to be paid from the earnings of the company before any dividends are made to stockholders; -- issued chiefly or exclusively by railroad companies.  -- Income tax, a tax upon a person's incomes, emoluments, profits, etc., or upon the excess beyond a certain amount.  Syn.  -- Gain; profit; proceeds; salary; revenue; receipts; interest; emolument; produce. 

INCOMITY:  Want of comity; incivility; rudeness. [R.]  IN COMMENDAM In com*men"dam. Etym: [See Commendam.] (Law)  See Commendam, and Partnership in Commendam, under Partnership. 

INCOMMENSURABILITY:  The quality or state of being incommensurable. Reid. 

INCOMMENSURABLE:  Not commensurable; having no common measure or standard of comparison; as, quantities are incommensurable when no third quantity can be found that is an aliquot part of both; the side and diagonal of a square are incommensurable with each other; the diameter and circumference of a circle are incommensurable. They are quantities incommensurable. Burke. -- In`com*men"su*ra*ble*ness, n.  -- In`com*men"su*ra*bly, adv. 

INCOMMENSURABLE:  One of two or more quantities which have no common measure. 

INCOMMISCIBLE:  Not commiscible; not mixable. 

INCOMMIXTURE:  A state of being unmixed; separateness. Sir T. Browne. 

INCOMMODATE:  To incommode. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

INCOMMODATION:  The state of being incommoded; inconvenience. [Obs.] 

INCOMMODE:  To give inconvenience or trouble to; to disturb or molest; to discommode; to worry; to put out; as, we are incommoded by want of room.  Syn.  -- To annoy; disturb; trouble; molest; disaccomodate; inconvenience; disquiet; vex; plague. 

INCOMMODE:  An inconvenience. [R.] Strype. 

INCOMMODEMENT:  The act of incommoded. [Obs.] Cheyne. 

INCOMMODIOUS:  Tending to incommode; not commodious; not affording ease or advantage; unsuitable; giving trouble; inconvenient; annoying; as, an incommodious seat; an incommodious arrangement.  -- In`com*mo"di*ous*ly, adv.  -- In`com*mo"di*ous*ness, n. 

INCOMMODITY:  Inconvenience; trouble; annoyance; disadvantage; encumbrance. [Archaic] Bunyan. A great incommodity to the body. Jer. Taylor. Buried him under a bulk of incommodities. Hawthorne. 

INCOMMUNICABILITY:  The quality or state of being incommunicable, or incapable of being imparted. 

INCOMMUNICABLE:  Not communicable; incapable of being communicated, shared, told, or imparted, to others. Health and understanding are incommunicable. Southey. Those incommunicable relations of the divine love. South. -- In`com*mu"ni*ca*ble*ness, n.  -- In`com*mu"ni*ca*bly, adv. 

INCOMMUNICATED:  Not communicated or imparted. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

INCOMMUNICATING:  Having no communion or intercourse with each other. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

INCOMMUNICATIVE:  Not communicative; not free or apt to impart to others in conversation; reserved; silent; as, the messenger was incommunicative; hence, not disposed to hold fellowship or intercourse with others; exclusive. The Chinese . . . an incommunicative nation. C. Buchanan. -- In`com*mu"ni*ca*tive*ly, adv.  -- In`com*mu"ni*ca*tive*ness, n. Lamb. His usual incommunicativeness. G. Eliot. 

INCOMMUTABILITY:  The quality or state of being incommutable. 

INCOMMUTABLE:  Not commutable; not capable of being exchanged with, or substituted for, another. Cudworth.  -- In`com*mut"a*ble*ness, n.  -- In`com*mut"a*bly, adv.  INCOMPACT; INCOMPACTED In`com*pact", In`com*pact"ed, a.  Not compact; not having the parts firmly united; not solid; incoherent; loose; discrete. Boyle. 

INCOMPARABLE:  Not comparable; admitting of no comparison with others; unapproachably eminent; without a peer or equal; matchless; peerless; transcendent. A merchant of incomparable wealth. Shak. A new hypothesis . . . which hath the incomparable Sir Isaac Newton for a patron. Bp. Warburton. -- In*com"pa*ra*ble*ness, n.  -- In*com"pa*ra*bly, adv. Delights incomparably all those corporeal things. Bp. Wilkins. 

INCOMPARED:  Peerless; incomparable. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INCOMPASS:  See Encompass. 

INCOMPASSION:  Want of compassion or pity. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. 

INCOMPASSIONATE:  Not compassionate; void of pity or of tenderness; remorseless.  -- In`com*pas"sion*ate*ly, adv.  -- In`com*pas"sion*ate*ness, n. 

INCOMPATIBILITY:  The quality or state of being incompatible; inconsistency; irreconcilableness. 

INCOMPATIBLE:  Incapable of being together without mutual reaction or decomposition, as certain medicines. Incompatible terms (Logic), terms which can not be combined in thought.  Syn.  -- Inconsistent; incongruous; dissimilar; irreconcilable; unsuitable; disagreeing; inharmonious; discordant; repugnant; contradictory. See Inconsistent. 

INCOMPATIBLE:  An incompatible substance; esp., in pl., things which can not be placed or used together because of a change of chemical composition or of opposing medicinal qualities; as, the incompatibles of iron. 

INCOMPATIBLENESS:  The quality or state of being incompatible; incompatibility. 

INCOMPATIBLY:  In an incompatible manner; inconsistently; incongruously.  INCOMPETENCE; INCOMPETENCY In*com"pe*tence, In*com"pe*tency, n. Etym: [Cf. F. incompétence.]  1. The quality or state of being incompetent; want of physical, intellectual, or moral ability; insufficiency; inadequacy; as, the incompetency of a child hard labor, or of an idiot for intellectual efforts. "Some inherent incompetency." Gladstone.  2. (Law)  Want of competency or legal fitness; incapacity; disqualification, as of a person to be heard as a witness, or to act as a juror, or of a judge to try a cause.  Syn.  -- Inability; insufficiency; inadequacy; disqualification; incapability; unfitness. 

INCOMPETENT:  Wanting the legal or constitutional qualifications; inadmissible; as, a person professedly wanting in religious belief is an incompetent witness in a court of law or equity; incompetent evidence. Richard III. had a resolution, out of hatred to his brethren, to disable their issues, upon false and incompetent pretexts, the one of attainder, the other of illegitimation. Bacon.  3. Not lying within one's competency, capacity, or authorized power; not permissible.  Syn.  -- Incapable; unable; inadequate; insufficient; inefficient; disqualified; unfit; improper.  -- Incompetent, Incapable. Incompetent is a relative term, denoting a want of the requisite qualifications for performing a given act, service, etc.; incapable is absolute in its meaning, denoting want of power, either natural or moral. We speak of a man as incompetent to a certain task, of an incompetent judge, etc. We say of an idiot that he is incapable of learning to read; and of a man distinguished for his honor, that he is incapable of a mean action. 

INCOMPETENTLY:  In an competent manner; inadequately; unsuitably. 

INCOMPETIBILITY:  See Incompatibility. 

INCOMPETIBLE:  See Incompatible. 

INCOMPLETE:  Wanting any of the usual floral organs; -- said of a flower. Incomplete equation (Alg.), an equation some of whose terms are wanting; or one in which the coefficient of some one or more of the powers of the unknown quantity is equal to 0. 

INCOMPLETELY:  In an incomplete manner. 

INCOMPLETENESS:  The state of being incomplete; imperfectness; defectiveness. Boyle. 

INCOMPLETION:  Want of completion; incompleteness. Smart. 

INCOMPLEX:  Not complex; uncompounded; simple. Barrow. 

INCOMPLIABLE:  Not compliable; not conformable. 

INCOMPLIANT:  Not compliant; unyielding to request, solicitation, or command; stubborn.  -- In`com*pli"ant*ly, adv. 

INCOMPOSED:  Disordered; disturbed. [Obs.] Milton.  -- In`com*po"sed*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- In`com*pos"ed*ness, n. [Obs.] 

INCOMPOSITE:  Not composite; uncompounded; simple. Incomposite numbers. See Prime numbers, under Prime. 

INCOMPOSSIBLE:  Not capable of joint existence; incompatible; inconsistent. [Obs.] Ambition and faith . . . are . . . incompossible. Jer. Taylor. -- In`com*pos`si*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.] 

INCOMPREHENSE:  Incomprehensible. [Obs.] "Incomprehense in virtue." Marston. 

INCOMPREHENSIBILITY:  The quality of being incomprehensible, or beyond the reach of human intellect; incomprehensibleness; inconceivability; inexplicability. The constant, universal sense of all antiquity unanimously confessing an incomprehensibility in many of the articles of the Christian faith. South. 

INCOMPREHENSION:  Want of comprehension or understanding. "These mazes and incomprehensions." Bacon. 

INCOMPREHENSIVE:  Not comprehensive; not capable of including or of understanding; not extensive; limited.  -- In*com`pre*hen"sive*ly, a. Sir W. Hamilton.  -- In*com`pre*hen"sive*ness, n. T. Warton. 

INCOMPRESSIBILITY:  The quality of being incompressible, or incapable of reduction in volume by pressure; -- formerly supposed to be a property of liquids. The incompressibility of water is not absolute. Rees. 

INCOMPRESSIBLE:  Not compressible; incapable of being reduced by force or pressure into a smaller compass or volume; resisting compression; as, many liquids and solids appear to be almost incompressible.  -- In`com*press"i*ble*ness, n. 

INCOMPUTABLE:  Not computable. 

INCONCEALABLE:  Not concealable. "Inconcealable imperfections." Sir T. Browne. 

INCONCEIVABILITY:  The quality of being inconceivable; inconceivableness. The inconceivability of the Infinite. Mansel. 

INCONCEIVABLE:  Not conceivable; incapable of being conceived by the mind; not explicable by the human intellect, or by any known principles or agencies; incomprehensible; as, it is inconceivable to us how the will acts in producing muscular motion. It is inconceivable to me that a spiritual substance should represent an extended figure. Locke. -- In`con*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n.  -- In`con*ceiv"a*bly, adv. The inconceivableness of a quality existing without any subject to possess it. A. Tucker. 

INCONCEPTIBLE:  Inconceivable. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

INCONCERNING:  Unimportant; trifling. [Obs.] "Trifling and inconcerning matters." Fuller. 

INCONCINNE:  Dissimilar; incongruous; unsuitable. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

INCONCINNITY:  Want of concinnity or congruousness; unsuitableness. There is an inconcinnity in admitting these words. Trench. 

INCONCINNOUS:  Not concinnous; unsuitable; discordant. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

INCONCLUDENT:  Not inferring a conclusion or consequence; not conclusive. [Obs.] 

INCONCLUDING:  Inferring no consequence. [Obs.] 

INCONCLUSIVE:  Not conclusive; leading to no conclusion; not closing or settling a point in debate, or a doubtful question; as, evidence is inconclusive when it does not exhibit the truth of a disputed case in such a manner as to satisfy the mind, and put an end to debate or doubt. Arguments . . . inconclusive and impertinent. South. -- In`con*clu"sive*ly, adv.  -- In`con*clu"sive*ness, n. 

INCONCOCT:  Inconcocted. [Obs.] 

INCONCOCTED:  Imperfectly digested, matured, or ripened. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INCONCOCTION:  The state of being undigested; unripeness; immaturity. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INCONCRETE:  Not concrete. [R.] L. Andrews. 

INCONCURRING:  Not concurring; disagreeing. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

INCONCUSSIBLE:  Not concussible; that cannot be shaken.  INCONDENSABILITY; INCONDENSIBILITY In`con*den`sa*bil"i*ty, In`con*den`si*bil"i*ty, n.  The quality or state of being incondensable.  INCONDENSABLE; INCONDENSIBLE In`con*den"sa*ble, In`con*den"si*ble, a.  Not condensable; incapable of being made more dense or compact, or reduced to liquid form. 

INCONDITE:  Badly put together; inartificial; rude; unpolished; irregular. "Carol incondite rhymes." J. Philips. 

INCONDITIONAL:  Unconditional. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INCONDITIONATE:  Not conditioned; not limited; absolute. [Obs.] Boyle. 

INCONFORM:  Unconformable. [Obs.] Gauden. 

INCONFORMABLE:  Unconformable. [Obs.] 

INCONFORMITY:  Want of conformity; nonconformity. [Obs.] 

INCONFUSED:  Not confused; distinct. [Obs.] 

INCONFUSION:  Freedom from confusion; distinctness. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INCONFUTABLE:  Not confutable.  -- In`con*fut"a*bly, adv. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

INCONGEALABLE:  Not congealable; incapable of being congealed.  -- In`con*geal"a*ble*ness, n. 

INCONGENIAL:  Not congenial; uncongenial. [R.] -- In`con*ge`ni*al"i*ty. [R.] 

INCONGRUENCE:  Want of congruence; incongruity. Boyle. 

INCONGRUENT:  Incongruous. Sir T. Elyot. 

INCONGRUOUS:  Not congruous; reciprocally disagreeing; not capable of harmonizing or readily assimilating; inharmonious; inappropriate; unsuitable; not fitting; inconsistent; improper; as, an incongruous remark; incongruous behavior, action, dress, etc. "Incongruous mixtures of opinions." I. Taylor. "Made up of incongruous parts." Macaulay. Incongruous denotes that kind of absence of harmony or suitableness of which the taste and experience of men takes cognizance. C. J. Smith. Incongruous numbers (Arith.), two numbers, which, with respect to a third, are such that their difference can not be divided by it without a remainder, the two numbers being said to be incongruous with respect to the third; as, twenty-five are incongruous with respect to four.  Syn.  -- Inconsistent; unsuitable; inharmonious; disagreeing; absurd; inappropriate; unfit; improper. See Inconsistent.  -- In*con"gru*ous*ly, adv.  -- In*con"gru*ous*ness, n. 

INCONNECTED:  Not connected; disconnected. [R.] Bp. Warburton. 

INCONNECTION:  Disconnection. 

INCONNEXEDLY:  Not connectedly; without connection. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INCONSCIONABLE:  Unconscionable. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INCONSCIOUS:  Unconscious. [Obs.] 

INCONSECUTIVENESS:  The state or quality of not being consecutive. J. H. Newman. 

INCONSEQUENCE:  The quality or state of being inconsequent; want of just or logical inference or argument; inconclusiveness. Bp. Stillingfleet. Strange, that you should not see the inconsequence of your own reasoning! Bp. Hurd. 

INCONSEQUENT:  Not following from the premises; not regularly inferred; invalid; not characterized by logical method; illogical; arbitrary; inconsistent; of no consequence. Loose and inconsequent conjectures. Sir T. Browne. 

INCONSEQUENTIAL:  Not regularly following from the premises; hence, irrelevant; unimportant; of no consequence. Chesterfield.  -- In*con`se*quen"tial*ly, adv. 

INCONSEQUENTIALITY:  The state of being inconsequential. 

INCONSEQUENTNESS:  Inconsequence. 

INCONSIDERABLE:  Not considerable; unworthy of consideration or notice; unimportant; small; trivial; as, an inconsiderable distance; an inconsiderable quantity, degree, value, or sum. "The baser scum and inconsiderable dregs of Rome." Stepney.  -- In`con*sid"er*a*ble*ness, n.  -- In`con*sid"er*a*bly, adv. 

INCONSIDERACY:  Inconsiderateness; thoughtlessness. [Obs.] Chesterfield. 

INCONSIDERATELY:  In an inconsiderate manner. 

INCONSIDERATENESS:  The quality or state of being inconsiderate. Tillotson. 

INCONSIDERATION:  Want of due consideration; inattention to consequences; inconsiderateness. Blindness of mind, inconsideration, precipitation. Jer. Taylor. Not gross, willful, deliberate, crimes; but rather the effects of inconsideration. Sharp. 

INCONSISTENCE:  Inconsistency. 

INCONSISTENTLY:  In an inconsistent manner. 

INCONSISTENTNESS:  Inconsistency. [R.] 

INCONSISTING:  Inconsistent. [Obs.] 

INCONSOLABLE:  Not consolable; incapable of being consoled; grieved beyond susceptibility of comfort; disconsolate. Dryden. With inconsolable distress she griev'd, And from her cheek the rose of beauty fied. Falconer. -- In`con*sol"a*ble*ness, n.  -- In`con*sol"a*bly, adv.  INCONSONANCE; INCONSONANCY In*con"so*nance, In*con"so*nan*cy, n.  Want of consonance or harmony of sound, action, or thought; disagreement. 

INCONSONANT:  Not consonant or agreeing; inconsistent; discordant.  -- In*con"so*nant*ly, adv. 

INCONSPICUOUS:  Not conspicuous or noticeable; hardly discernible.  -- In`con*spic"u*ous*ly, adv.  -- In`con*spic"u*ous*ness, n. Boyle. 

INCONSTANCE:  Inconstancy. Chaucer. 

INCONSTANCY:  The quality or state of being inconstant; want of constancy; mutability; fickleness; variableness. For unto knight there was no greater shame, Than lightness and inconstancie in love. Spenser. 

INCONSTANT:  Not constant; not stable or uniform; subject to change of character, appearance, opinion, inclination, or purpose, etc.; not firm; unsteady; fickle; changeable; variable; -- said of persons or things; as, inconstant in love or friendship. "The inconstant moon." Shak. While we, inquiring phantoms of a day, Inconstant as the shadows we survey! Boyse.  Syn.  -- Mutable; fickle; volatile; unsteady; unstable; changeable; variable; wavering; fluctuating. 

INCONSTANTLY:  In an inconstant manner. 

INCONSUMABLE:  Not consumable; incapable of being consumed, wasted, or spent. Paley.  -- In`con*sum"a*bly, adv. 

INCONSUMMATE:  Not consummated; not finished; incomplete. Sir M. Hale.  -- In`con*sum"mate*ness, n. 

INCONSUMPTIBLE:  Inconsumable. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 

INCONTAMINATE:  Not contaminated; pure. Moore.  -- In`con*tam"i*nate*ness, n. 

INCONTENTATION:  Discontent. [Obs.] Goodwin. 

INCONTESTABILITY:  The quality or state of being incontestable. 

INCONTESTABLE:  Not contestable; not to be disputed; that cannot be called in question or controverted; incontrovertible; indisputable; as, incontestable evidence, truth, or facts. Locke.  Syn.  -- Incontrovertible; indisputable; irrefragable; undeniable; unquestionable; intuitable; certain.  -- In`con*test"a*ble*ness, n.  -- In`con*test"a*bly, adv. 

INCONTESTED:  Not contested. Addison. 

INCONTIGUOUS:  Not contiguous; not adjoining or in contact; separate. Boyle.  -- In`con*tig"u*ous*ly, adv.  INCONTINENCE; INCONTINENCY In*con"ti*nence, In*con"ti*nen*cy, n. Etym: [L. incontinentia: cf. F. incontinence.]  1. Incapacity to hold; hence, incapacity to hold back or restrain; the quality or state of being incontinent; want of continence; failure to restrain the passions or appetites; indulgence of lust; lewdness. That Satan tempt you not for your incontinency. 1 Cor. vii. 5. From the rash hand of bold incontinence. Milton.  2. (Med.)  The inability of any of the animal organs to restrain the natural evacuations, so that the discharges are involuntary; as, incontinence of urine. 

INCONTINENT:  Unable to restrain natural evacuations. 

INCONTINENT:  One who is unchaste. B. Jonson. 

INCONTINENT:  Incontinently; instantly immediately. [Obs.] He says he will return incontinent. Shak. 

INCONTRACTED:  Uncontracted. [Obs.] Blackwall. 

INCONTROLLABLE:  Not controllable; uncontrollable.  -- In`con*trol"la*bly, adv. South. 

INCONTROVERTIBILITY:  The state or condition of being incontrovertible. 

INCONTROVERTIBLE:  Not controvertible; too clear or certain to admit of dispute; indisputable. Sir T. Browne.  -- In*con`tro*ver"ti*ble*ness, n.  -- In*con`tro*ver"ti*bly, adv. 

INCONVENIENCE:  To put to inconvenience; to incommode; as, to inconvenience a neighbor. 

INCONVENIENCY:  Inconvenience. 

INCONVENIENTLY:  In an inconvenient manner; incommodiously; unsuitably; unseasonably. 

INCONVERSABLE:  Incommunicative; unsocial; reserved. [Obs.] 

INCONVERSANT:  Not conversant; not acquainted; not versed; unfamiliar. 

INCONVERTED:  Not turned or changed about. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

INCONVERTIBILITY:  The quality or state of being inconvertible; not capable of being exchanged for, or converted into, something else; as, the inconvertibility of an irredeemable currency, or of lead, into gold. 

INCONVERTIBLE:  Not convertible; not capable of being transmuted, changed into, or exchanged for, something else; as, one metal is inconvertible into another; bank notes are sometimes inconvertible into specie. Walsh. 

INCONVERTIBLENESS:  Inconvertibility. 

INCONVERTIBLY:  In an inconvertible manner. 

INCONVINCIBLE:  Not convincible; incapable of being convinced. None are so inconvincible as your half-witted people. Gov. of the Tongue. 

INCONVINCIBLY:  In a manner not admitting of being convinced. 

INCONY:  Unlearned; artless; pretty; delicate. [Obs.] Most sweet jests! most incony vulgar wit! Shak.  INCOORDINATE; INCOOERDINATE In`co*ör"di*nate, a.  Not coördinate.  INCOORDINATION; INCOOERDINATION In`co*ör`di*na"tion, n.  Want of coördination; lack of harmonious adjustment or action. Incoördination of muscular movement (Physiol.), irregularity in movements resulting from inharmonious action of the muscles in consequence of loss of voluntary control over them. 

INCORONATE:  Crowned. [R.] Longfellow. 

INCORPORAL:  Immaterial; incorporeal; spiritual. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

INCORPORALITY:  Incorporeality. [Obs.] Bailey. 

INCORPORALLY:  Incorporeally. [Obs.] 

INCORPORATE:  Corporate; incorporated; made one body, or united in one body; associated; mixed together; combined; embodied. As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds Had been incorporate. Shak. A fifteenth part of silver incorporate with gold. Bacon. 

INCORPORATE:  To unite in one body so as to make a part of it; to be mixed or blended; -- usually followed by with. Painters' colors and ashes do better incorporate will oil. Bacon. He never suffers wrong so long to grow, And to incorporate with right so far As it might come to seem the same in show. Daniel. 

INCORPORATED:  United in one body; formed into a corporation; made a legal entity. 

INCORPORATIVE:  Incorporating or tending to incorporate; as, the incorporative languages (as of the Basques, North American Indians, etc. ) which run a whole phrase into one word. History demonstrates that incorporative unions are solid and permanent; but that a federal union is weak. W. Belsham. 

INCORPORATOR:  One of a number of persons who gets a company incorporated; one of the original members of a corporation. 

INCORPOREAL:  Existing only in contemplation of law; not capable of actual visible seizin or possession; not being an object of sense; intangible; -- opposed to corporeal. Incorporeal hereditament. See under Hereditament.  Syn.  -- Immaterial; unsubstantial; bodiless; spiritual. 

INCORPOREALISM:  Existence without a body or material form; immateriality. Cudworth. 

INCORPOREALIST:  One who believes in incorporealism. Cudworth. 

INCORPOREALITY:  The state or quality of being incorporeal or bodiless; immateriality; incorporealism. G. Eliot. 

INCORPOREALLY:  In an incorporeal manner. Bacon. 

INCORPOREITY:  The quality of being incorporeal; immateriality. Berkeley. 

INCORPSE:  To incorporate. [R.] Shak. 

INCORRECTION:  Want of correction, restraint, or discipline. [Obs.] Arnway. 

INCORRECTLY:  Not correctly; inaccurately; not exactly; as, a writing incorrectly copied; testimony incorrectly stated. 

INCORRECTNESS:  The quality of being incorrect; want of conformity to truth or to a standard; inaccuracy; inexactness; as incorrectness may in defect or in redundance.  INCORRESPONDENCE; INCORRESPONDENCY In*cor`re*spond"ence, In*cor`re*spond"en*cy, n.  Want of correspondence; disagreement; disproportion. [R.] 

INCORRESPONDING:  Not corresponding; disagreeing. [R.] Coleridge. 

INCORRIGIBILITY:  The state or quality of being incorrigible. The ingratitude, the incorrigibility, the strange perverseness . . . of mankind. Barrow. 

INCORRIGIBLE:  Not corrigible; incapable of being corrected or amended; bad beyond correction; irreclaimable; as, incorrigible error. "Incorrigible fools." Dryden. 

INCORRIGIBLE:  One who is corrigible; especially, a hardened criminal; as, the perpetual imprisonment of incorrigibles. 

INCORRIGIBLENESS:  Incorrigibility. Dr. H. More. 

INCORRIGIBLY:  In an incorrigible manner. 

INCORRODIBLE:  Incapable of being corroded, consumed, or eaten away. 

INCORRUPTED:  Uncorrupted. [Obs.] Breathed into their incorrupted breasts. Sir J. Davies. 

INCORRUPTIBILITY:  The quality of being incorruptible; incapability of corruption. Holland. 

INCORRUPTIBLE:  One of a religious sect which arose in Alexandria, in the reign of the Emperor Justinian, and which believed that the body of Christ was incorruptible, and that he suffered hunger, thirst, pain, only in appearance. 

INCORRUPTIBLE:  The quality or state of being incorruptible. Boyle. 

INCORRUPTIBLENESS:  The quality or state of being incorruptible.  Boyle. 

INCORRUPTIBLY:  In an incorruptible manner. 

INCORRUPTION:  The condition or quality of being incorrupt or incorruptible; absence of, or exemption from, corruption. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption. 1 Cor. xv. 42. The same preservation, or, rather, incorruption, we have observed in the flesh of turkeys, capons, etc. Sir T. Browne. 

INCORRUPTIVE:  Incorruptible; not liable to decay. Akenside. 

INCORRUPTLY:  Without corruption. To demean themselves incorruptly. Milton. 

INCRASSATE:  To make thick or thicker; to thicken; especially, in pharmacy, to thicken (a liquid) by the mixture of another substance, or by evaporating the thinner parts. Acids dissolve or attenuate; alkalies precipitate or incrassate. Sir I. Newton. Liquors which time hath incrassated into jellies. Sir T. Browne. 

INCRASSATE:  To become thick or thicker.  INCRASSATE; INCRASSATED In*cras"sate, In*cras"sa*ted, a. Etym: [L. incrassatus, p. p.]  1. Made thick or thicker; thickened; inspissated.  2. (Bot.)  Thickened; becoming thicker. Martyn.  3. (Zoöl.)  Swelled out on some particular part, as the antennæ of certain insects. 

INCRASSATIVE:  Having the quality of thickening; tending to thicken. Harvey. 

INCRASSATIVE:  A substance which has the power to thicken; formerly, a medicine supposed to thicken the humors. Harvey. 

INCREASABLE:  Capable of being increased. Sherwood.  -- In*creas"a*ble*ness, n. An indefinite increasableness of some of our ideas. Bp. Law. 

INCREASE:  To become more nearly full; to show more of the surface; to wax; as, the moon increases. Increasing function (Math.), a function whose value increases when that of the variable increases, and decreases when the latter is diminished.  Syn.  -- To enlarge; extend; multiply; expand; develop; heighten; amplify; raise; enhance; spread; aggravate; magnify; augment; advance.  -- To Increase, Enlarge, Extend. Enlarge implies to make larger or broader in size. Extend marks the progress of enlargement so as to have wider boundaries. Increase denotes enlargement by growth and internal vitality, as in the case of plants. A kingdom is enlarged by the addition of new territories; the mind is enlarged by knowledge. A kingdom is extended when its boundaries are carried to a greater distance from the center. A man's riches, honors, knowledge, etc., are increased by accessions which are made from time to time. 

INCREASE:  To augment or make greater in bulk, quantity, extent, value, or amount, etc.; to add to; to extend; to lengthen; to enhance; to aggravate; as, to increase one's possessions, influence. I will increase the famine. Ezek. v. 16. Make denials Increase your services. Shak. 

INCREASE:  The period of increasing light, or luminous phase; the waxing; -- said of the moon. Seeds, hair, nails, hedges, and herbs will grow soonest if set or cut in the increase of the moon. Bacon. Increase twist, the twixt of a rifle groove in which the angle of twist increases from the breech to the muzzle.  Syn.  -- Enlargement; extension; growth; development; increment; addition; accession; production. 

INCREASEFUL:  Full of increase; abundant in produce. "Increaseful crops." [R.] Shak. 

INCREASEMENT:  Increase. [R.] Bacon. 

INCREASER:  One who, or that, increases. 

INCREASINGLY:  More and more. 

INCREATE:  To create within. [R.]  INCREATE; INCREATED In"cre*ate, In"cre*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. increatus. See In- not, and Create.]  Uncreated; self-existent. [R.] Bright effincreate. Milton. 

INCREDIBLE:  Not credible; surpassing belief; too extraordinary and improbable to admit of belief; unlikely; marvelous; fabulous. Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should raise the dead Acts xxvi. 8. 

INCREDIBLENESS:  Incredibility. 

INCREDIBLY:  In an incredible manner. 

INCREDITED:  Uncredited. [Obs.] 

INCREDULITY:  The state or quality of being i Of every species of incredulity, religious unbelief is the most irrational. Buckminster. 

INCREDULOUSLY:  In an incredulous manner; with incredulity. 

INCREDULOUSNESS:  Incredulity. 

INCREMABLE:  Incapable of being burnt; incombustibe. Sir T. Browne. 

INCREMATE:  To consume or reduce to ashes by burning, as a dead body; to cremate. 

INCREMATION:  Burning; esp., the act of burning a dead body; cremation. 

INCREMENT:  The increase of a variable quantity or fraction from its present value to its next ascending value; the finite quantity, generally variable, by which a variable quantity is increased.  4. (Rhet.)  An amplification without strict climax, as in the following passage: Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, . . . think on these things. Phil. iv. 8. Infinitesimal increment (Math.), an infinitesimally small variation considered in Differential Calculus. See Calculus.  -- Method of increments (Math.), a calculus founded on the properties of the successive values of variable quantities and their differences or increments. It differs from the method of fluxions in treating these differences as finite, instead of infinitely small, and is equivalent to the calculus of finite differences. 

INCREMENTAL:  Pertaining to, or resulting from, the process of growth; as, the incremental lines in the dentine of teeth. 

INCREPATE:  To chide; to rebuke; to reprove. [Obs.] 

INCREPATION:  A chiding; rebuke; reproof. [Obs.] Hammond. 

INCRESCENT:  Increasing; on the increase; -- said of the moon represented as the new moon, with the points turned toward the dexter side. 

INCREST:  To adorn with a crest. [R.] Drummond. 

INCRIMINATE:  To accuse; to charge with a crime or fault; to criminate. 

INCRIMINATION:  The act of incriminating; crimination. 

INCRIMINATORY:  Of or pertaining to crimination; tending to incriminate; criminatory. 

INCROYABLE:  A French fop or dandy of the time of the Directory; hence, any fop.   The name is said to have been given in allusion not only to the extravagant dress, but also to the frequent use of the phrase "C'est vraiment incroyable" (That is really incredible.). 

INCRUENTAL:  Unbloody; not attended with blood; as, an incruental sacrifice. [Obs.] Brevint. 

INCRUST:  To inlay into, as a piece of carving or other ornamental object. 

INCRUSTATE:  Incrusted. Bacon. 

INCRUSTATE:  To incrust. [R.] Cheyne. 

INCRUSTATION:  A covering or inlaying of marble, mosaic, etc., attached to the masonry by cramp irons or cement.  4. (Fine Arts)  Anything inlaid or imbedded. 

INCRUSTMENT:  Incrustation. [R.] 

INCRYSTALLIZABLE:  Not crystallizable; incapable of being formed into crystals. 

INCUBATE:  To sit, as on eggs for hatching; to brood; to brood upon, or keep warm, as eggs, for the purpose of hatching. 

INCUBATION:  The development of a disease from its causes, or its period of incubation. (See below.)  3. A sleeping in a consecrated place for the purpose of dreaming oracular dreams. Tylor. Period of incubation, or Stage of incubation (Med.), the period which elapses between exposure to the causes of a disease and the attack resulting from it; the time of development of the supposed germs or spores. 

INCUBATIVE:  Of or pertaining to incubation, or to the period of incubation. 

INCUBATOR:  That which incubates, especially, an apparatus by means of which eggs are hatched by artificial heat. 

INCUBATORY:  Serving for incubation. 

INCUBE:  To fix firmly, as in cube; to secure or place firmly. [Obs.] Milton. 

INCUBITURE:  Incubation. [Obs.] J. Ellis. 

INCUBOUS:  Having the leaves so placed that the upper part of each one covers the base of the leaf next above it, as in hepatic mosses of the genus Frullania. See Succubous. 

INCUBUS:  The nightmare. See Nightmare. Such as are troubled with incubus, or witch-ridden, as we call it. Burton.  3. Any oppressive encumbrance or burden; anything that prevents the free use of the faculties. Debt and usury is the incubus which weighs most heavily on the agricultural resources of Turkey. J. L. Farley. 

INCULCATE:  To teach and impress by frequent repetitions or admonitions; to urge on the mind; as, Christ inculcates on his followers humility. The most obvious and necessary duties of life they have not yet had authority enough to enforce and inculcate upon men's minds. S. Clarke.  Syn.  -- To instill; infuse; implant; engraft; impress. 

INCULCATION:  A teaching and impressing by frequent repetitions. Bp. Hall. 

INCULCATOR:  One who inculcates. Boyle. 

INCULK:  To inculcate. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

INCULP:  To inculpate. [Obs.] Shelton. 

INCULPABLE:  Faultless; blameless; innocent. South. An innocent and incupable piece of ignorance. Killingbeck. 

INCULPABLENESS:  Blamelessness; faultlessness. 

INCULPABLY:  Blamelessly. South. 

INCULPATE:  To blame; to impute guilt to; to accuse; to involve or implicate in guilt. That risk could only exculpate her and not inculpate them -- the probabilities protected them so perfectly. H. James. 

INCULPATION:  Blame; censure; crimination. Jefferson. 

INCULPATORY:  Imputing blame; criminatory; compromising; implicating. 

INCULT:  Untilled; uncultivated; crude; rude; uncivilized. Germany then, says Tacitus, was incult and horrid, now full of magnificent cities. Burton. His style is diffuse and incult. M. W. Shelley. 

INCULTIVATED:  Uncultivated. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 

INCULTIVATION:  Want of cultivation. [Obs.] Berington. 

INCULTURE:  Want or neglect of cultivation or culture. [Obs.] Feltham. 

INCUMBENT:  Leaning or resting; -- said of anthers when lying on the inner side of the filament, or of cotyledons when the radicle lies against the back of one of them. Gray.  4. (Zoöl.)  Bent downwards so that the ends touch, or rest on, something else; as, the incumbent toe of a bird. 

INCUMBENT:  A person who is in present possession of a benefice or of any office. The incumbent lieth at the mercy of his patron. Swift. 

INCUMBENTLY:  In an incumbent manner; so as to be incumbent. 

INCUMBER:  See Encumber. 

INCUMBITION:  Incubation. [R.] Sterne. 

INCUMBRANCE:  A burden or charge upon property; a claim or lien upon an estate, which may diminish its value. 

INCUMBRANCER:  One who holds Kent. 

INCUMBROUS:  Cumbersome; troublesome. [Written also encombrous.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 

INCUNABULUM:  A work of art or of human industry, of an early epoch; especially, a book printed before A. D. 1500. 

INCUR:  To pass; to enter. [Obs.] Light is discerned by itself because by itself it incurs into the eye. South. 

INCURABILITY:  The state of being uncurable; irremediableness. Harvey. 

INCURABLE:  A person diseased beyond cure. 

INCURABLENESS:  The state of being incurable; incurability. Boyle. 

INCURABLY:  In a manner that renders cure impracticable or impossible; irremediably. "Incurably diseased." Bp. Hall. "Incurably wicked." Blair. 

INCURIOSITY:  Want of curiosity or interest; inattentiveness; indifference. Sir H. Wotton. 

INCURIOUS:  Not curious or inquisitive; without care for or interest in; inattentive; careless; negligent; heedless. Carelessnesses and incurious deportments toward their children. Jer. Taylor. 

INCURIOUSLY:  In an curious manner. 

INCURIOUSNESS:  Unconcernedness; incuriosity. Sordid incuriousness and slovenly neglect. Bp. Hall. 

INCURRENCE:  The act of incurring, bringing on, or subjecting one's self to (something troublesome or burdensome); as, the incurrence of guilt, debt, responsibility, etc. 

INCURRENT:  Characterized by a current which flows inward; as, the incurrent orifice of lamellibranch Mollusca. 

INCURSIVE:  Making an incursion; invasive; aggressive; hostile. 

INCURTAIN:  To curtain. [Obs.] 

INCURVATE:  Curved; bent; crooked. Derham. 

INCURVATE:  To turn from a straight line or course; to bend; to crook. Cheyne. 

INCURVE:  To bend; to curve; to make crooked. 

INCURVED:  Bending gradually toward the axis or center, as branches or petals. 

INCURVITY:  A state of being bent or curved; incurvation; a bending inwards. Sir T. Browne. 

INCUS:  One of the small bones in the tympanum of the ear; the anvil bone. See Ear.  3. (Zoöl.)  The central portion of the armature of the pharynx in the Rotifera. 

INCUSE:  Cut or stamped in, or hollowed out by engraving. "Irregular incuse square." Dr. W. Smith.  INCUSE; INCUSS In*cuse", In*cuss", v. t. Etym: [L. incussus, p. p. of incutere to strike. See 1st In-, and Concuss.]  To form, or mold, by striking or stamping, as a coin or medal. 

INCUTE:  To strike or stamp in. [Obs.] Becon. 

INCYST:  See Encyst. 

INCYSTED:  See Encysted. 

IND:  India. [Poetical] Shak. Milton. 

INDAGATE:  To seek or search out. [Obs.] 

INDAGATION:  Search; inquiry; investigation. [Obs.] 

INDAGATIVE:  Searching; exploring; investigating. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

INDAGATOR:  A searcher; an explorer; an investigator. [Obs.] Searched into by such skillful indagators of nature. Boyle. 

INDAMAGE:  See Endamage. [R.] 

INDAMAGED:  Not damaged. [Obs.] Milton. 

INDART:  To pierce, as with a dart. 

INDAZOL:  A nitrogenous compound, C7H6N2, analogous to indol, and produced from a diazo derivative or cinnamic acid. 

INDE:  Azure-colored; of a bright blue color. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

INDEAR:  See Endear. 

INDEBT:  To bring into debt; to place under obligation; -- chiefly used in the participle indebted. Thy fortune hath indebted thee to none. Daniel. 

INDEBTMENT:  Indebtedness. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

INDECENCE:  See Indecency. [Obs.] "An indecence of barbarity." Bp. Burnet. 

INDECENT:  Not decent; unfit to be seen or heard; offensive to modesty and delicacy; as, indecent language. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Unbecoming; indecorous; indelicate; unseemly; immodest; gross; shameful; impure; improper; obscene; filthy. 

INDECENTLY:  In an indecent manner. 

INDECIDUATE:  Having no decidua; nondeciduate. 

INDECIDUOUS:  Not deciduous or falling, as the leaves of trees in autumn; lasting; evergreen; persistent; permanent; perennial. The indeciduous and unshaven locks of Apollo. Sir T. Browne. 

INDECIMABLE:  Not decimable, or liable to be decimated; not liable to the payment of tithes. Cowell. 

INDECIPHERABLE:  Not decipherable; incapable of being deciphered, explained, or solved.  -- In`de*ci"pher*a*bly, adv. 

INDECISION:  Want of decision; want of settled purpose, or of firmness; indetermination; wavering of mind; irresolution; vacillation; hesitation. The term indecision . . . implies an idea very nicely different from irresolution; yet it has a tendency to produce it. Shenstone. Indecision . . . is the natural accomplice of violence. Burke. 

INDECISIVELY:  Without decision. 

INDECISIVENESS:  The state of being indecisive; unsettled state. 

INDECLINABLE:  Not declinable; not varied by inflective terminations; as, nihil (nothing), in Latin, is an indeclinable noun.  -- n.  An indeclinable word. 

INDECLINABLY:  Without variation of termination. 

INDECOMPOSABLE:  Not decomposable; incapable or difficult of decomposition; not resolvable into its constituents or elements. 

INDECOMPOSABLENESS:  Incapableness of decomposition; stability; permanence; durability. 

INDECOROUS:  Not decorous; violating good manners; contrary to good breeding or etiquette; unbecoming; improper; out of place; as, indecorous conduct. It was useless and indecorous to attempt anything more by mere struggle. Burke.  Syn.  -- Unbecoming; unseemly; unbefitting; rude; coarse; impolite; uncivil; ill-bred. 

INDECOROUSLY:  In an indecorous manner. 

INDECOROUSNESS:  The quality of being indecorous; want of decorum. 

INDEED:  In reality; in truth; in fact; verily; truly; -- used in a variety of sense. Esp.: (a) Denoting emphasis; as, indeed it is so. (b) Denoting concession or admission; as, indeed, you are right. (c) Denoting surprise; as, indeed, is it you Its meaning is not intrinsic or fixed, but depends largely on the form of expression which it accompanies.  The carnal mind is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. Rom. viii. 7. I were a beast indeed to do you wrong. Dryden. There is, indeed, no great pleasure in visiting these magazines of war. Addison. 

INDEFATIGABILITY:  The state of being indefatigable. 

INDEFATIGABLE:  Incapable of being fatigued; not readily exhausted; unremitting in labor or effort; untiring; unwearying; not yielding to fatigue; as, indefatigable exertions, perseverance, application. "A constant, indefatigable attendance." South. Upborne with indefatigable wings. Milton.  Syn.  -- Unwearied; untiring; persevering; persistent. 

INDEFATIGABLENESS:  Indefatigable quality; unweariedness; persistency. Parnell. 

INDEFATIGABLY:  Without weariness; without yielding to fatigue; persistently. Dryden. 

INDEFATIGATION:  Indefatigableness; unweariedness. [Obs.] J. Gregory. 

INDEFEASIBILITY:  The quality of being undefeasible. 

INDEFEASIBLE:  Not to be defeated; not defeasible; incapable of being annulled or made void; as, an indefeasible or title. That the king had a divine and an indefeasible right to the regal power. Macaulay. 

INDEFECTIBILITY:  The quality of being indefectible. Barrow. 

INDEFECTIBLE:  Not defectible; unfailing; not liable to defect, failure, or decay. An indefectible treasure in the heavens. Barrow. A state of indefectible virtue and happiness. S. Clarke. 

INDEFECTIVE:  Not defective; perfect; complete. "Absolute, indefective obedience." South. 

INDEFEISIBLE:  Indefeasible. [Obs.] 

INDEFENSIBILITY:  The quality or state of not being defensible. Walsh. 

INDEFENSIBLE:  Not defensible; not capable of being defended, maintained, vindicated, or justified; unjustifiable; untenable; as, an indefensible fortress, position, cause, etc. Men find that something can be said in favor of what, on the very proposal, they thought utterly indefensible. Burke. 

INDEFENSIBLY:  In an indefensible manner. 

INDEFENSIVE:  Defenseless. [Obs.] The sword awes the indefensive villager. Sir T. Herbert. 

INDEFICIENCY:  The state or quality of not being deficient. [Obs.] Strype. 

INDEFICIENT:  Not deficient; full. [Obs.] Brighter than the sun, and indeficient as the light of heaven. Jer. Taylor. 

INDEFINABLE:  Incapable of being defined or described; inexplicable. Bp. Reynolds. 

INDEFINABLY:  In an indefinable manner. 

INDEFINITE:  Too numerous or variable to make a particular enumeration important; -- said of the parts of a flower, and the like. Also, indeterminate. Indefinite article (Gram.), the word a or an, used with nouns to denote any one of a common or general class.  -- Indefinite inflorescence. (Bot.) See Indeterminate inflorescence, under Indeterminate.  -- Indefinite proposition (Logic), a statement whose subject is a common term, with nothing to indicate distribution or nondistribution; as, Man is mortal.  -- Indefinite term (Logic), a negative term; as, the not-good.  Syn.  -- Inexplicit; vague; uncertain; unsettled; indeterminate; loose; equivocal; inexact; approximate. 

INDEFINITELY:  In an indefinite manner or degree; without any settled limitation; vaguely; not with certainty or exactness; as, to use a word indefinitely. If the world be indefinitely extended, that is, so far as no human intellect can fancy any bound of it. Ray. 

INDEFINITENESS:  The quality of being indefinite. 

INDEFINITUDE:  Indefiniteness; vagueness; also, number or quantity not limited by our understanding, though yet finite. [Obs.] Sir M . Hale. 

INDEHISCENCE:  The property or state of being indehiscent. 

INDEHISCENT:  Remaining closed at maturity, or not opening along regular lines, as the acorn, or a cocoanut. 

INDELECTABLE:  Not delectable; unpleasant; disagreeable. [R.] Richardson. 

INDELIBERATE:  Done without deliberation; unpremeditated. [Obs.] -- In`de*lib"er*ate*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

INDELIBERATED:  Indeliberate. [Obs.] 

INDELIBILITY:  The quality of being indelible. Bp. Horsley. 

INDELICACY:  The quality of being indelicate; want of delicacy, or of a nice sense of, or regard for, purity, propriety, or refinement in manners, language, etc.; rudeness; coarseness; also, that which is offensive to refined taste or purity of mind. The indelicacy of English comedy. Blair. Your papers would be chargeable with worse than indelicacy; they would be immoral. Addison. 

INDELICATE:  Not delicate; wanting delicacy; offensive to good manners, or to purity of mind; coarse; rude; as, an indelicate word or suggestion; indelicate behavior. Macaulay.  -- In*del"i*cate*ly, adv.  Syn.  -- Indecorous; unbecoming; unseemly; rude; coarse; broad; impolite; gross; indecent; offensive; improper; unchaste; impure; unrefined. 

INDEMONSTRABILITY:  The quality of being indemonstrable. 

INDEMONSTRABLE:  Incapable of being demonstrated.  -- In`de*mon"stra*ble*ness, n. 

INDENIZATION:  The act of naturalizing; endenization. [R.] Evelyn. 

INDENIZE:  To naturalize. [R.] 

INDENIZEN:  To invest with the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize. [R.] Words indenizened, and commonly used as English. B. Jonson. 

INDENT:  To bind out by indenture or contract; to indenture; to apprentice; as, to indent a young man to a shoemaker; to indent a servant.  4. (Print.)  To begin (a line or lines) at a greater or less distance from the margin; as, to indent the first line of a paragraph one em; to indent the second paragraph two ems more than the first. See Indentation, and Indention.  5. (Mil.)  To make an order upon; to draw upon, as for military stores. [India] Wilhelm. 

INDENT:  A requisition or order for supplies, sent to the commissariat of an army. [India] Wilhelm. 

INDENTED:  Notched like the part of a saw consisting of the teeth; serrated; as, an indented border or ordinary.  4. Bound out by an indenture; apprenticed; indentured; as, an indented servant.  5. (Zoöl.)  Notched along the margin with a different color, as the feathers of some birds. Indented line (Fort.), a line with alternate long and short faces, with salient and receding angles, each face giving a flanking fire along the front of the next. 

INDENTEDLY:  With indentations. 

INDENTING:  Indentation; an impression like that made by a tooth. 

INDENTION:  Same as Indentation, 4. 

INDENTMENT:  Indenture. [Obs.] 

INDENTURE:  A mutual agreement in writing between two or more parties, whereof each party has usually a counterpart or duplicate; sometimes in the pl., a short form for indentures of apprenticeship, the contract by which a youth is bound apprentice to a master. The law is the best expositor of the gospel; they are like a pair of indentures: they answer in every part. C. Leslie.  Note: Indentures were originally duplicates, laid together and intended by a notched cut or line, or else written on the same piece of parchment and separated by a notched line so that the two papers or parchments corresponded to each other. But indenting has gradually become a mere form, and is often neglected, while the writings or counterparts retain the name of indentures. 

INDENTURE:  To run or wind in and out; to be cut or notched; to indent. Heywood. 

INDEPENDENCE:  In the United States, a holiday, the 4th of July, commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on that day in 1776. 

INDEPENDENCY:  Doctrine and polity of the Independents. 

INDEPENDENT:  Belonging or pertaining to, or holding to the doctrines or methods of, the Independents.  7. (Math.)  Not dependent upon another quantity in respect to value or rate of variation; -- said of quantities or functions.  8. (U. S. Politics)  Not bound by party; exercising a free choice in voting with either or any party. Independent company (Mil.), one not incorporated in any regiment.  -- Independent seconds watch, a stop watch having a second hand driven by a separate set of wheels, springs, etc., for timing to a fraction of a second.  -- Independent variable. (Math.) See Dependent variable, under Dependent.  Syn.  -- Free; uncontrolled; separate; uncoerced; self-reliant; bold; unconstrained; unrestricted. 

INDEPENDENT:  One who believes that an organized Christian church is complete in itself, competent to self-government, and independent of all ecclesiastical authority.  Note: In England the name is often applied (commonly in the pl.) to the Congregationalists.  2. (Politics)  One who does not acknowledge an obligation to support a party's candidate under all circumstances; one who exercises liberty in voting. 

INDEPENDENTISM:  Independency; the church system of Independents. Bp. Gauden. 

INDEPENDENTLY:  In an independent manner; without control. 

INDEPOSABLE:  Incapable of being deposed. [R.] Princes indeposable by the pope. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

INDEPRAVATE:  Undepraved. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode). 

INDEPRECABLE:  Incapable or undeserving of being deprecated. Cockeram. 

INDEPREHENSIBLE:  Incapable of being found out. Bp. Morton. 

INDEPRIVABLE:  Incapable of being deprived, or of being taken away. 

INDESCRIBABLE:  Incapable of being described.  -- In`de*scrib"a*bly, adv. 

INDESCRIPTIVE:  Not descriptive. 

INDESERT:  Ill desert. [R.] Addison. 

INDESINENT:  Not ceasing; perpetual. [Obs.] Baxter.  -- In*des"i*nent*ly, adv. [Obs.] Ray. 

INDESIRABLE:  Undesirable. 

INDESTRUCTIBILITY:  The quality of being indestructible. 

INDESTRUCTIBLE:  Not destructible; incapable of decomposition or of being destroyed.  -- In`de*struc"ti*ble*ness, n.  -- In`de*struc"ti*bly, adv. 

INDETERMINABLE:  Not determinable; impossible to be determined; not to be definitely known, ascertained, defined, or limited.  -- In`de*ter"mi*na*bly, adv. 

INDETERMINABLE:  An indeterminable thing or quantity. Sir T. Browne. 

INDETERMINATE:  Not determinate; not certain or fixed; indefinite; not precise; as, an indeterminate number of years. Paley. Indeterminate analysis (Math.), that branch of analysis which has for its object the solution of indeterminate problems.  -- Indeterminate coefficients (Math.), coefficients arbitrarily assumed for convenience of calculation, or to facilitate some artifice of analysis. Their values are subsequently determined.  -- Indeterminate equation (Math.), an equation in which the unknown quantities admit of an infinite number of values, or sets of values. A group of equations is indeterminate when it contains more unknown quantities than there are equations.  -- Indeterminate inflorescence (Bot.), a mode of inflorescence in which the flowers all arise from axillary buds, the terminal bud going on to grow and sometimes continuing the stem indefinitely; -- called also acropetal, botryose, centripetal, and indefinite inflorescence. Gray.  -- Indeterminate problem (Math.), a problem which admits of an infinite number of solutions, or one in which there are fewer imposed conditions than there are unknown or required results.  -- Indeterminate quantity (Math.), a quantity which has no fixed value, but which may be varied in accordance with any proposed condition.  -- Indeterminate series (Math.), a series whose terms proceed by the powers of an indeterminate quantity, sometimes also with indeterminate exponents, or indeterminate coefficients.  -- In`de*ter"mi*nate*ly adv.  -- In`de*ter"mi*nate*ness, n. 

INDETERMINED:  Undetermined. 

INDEVIRGINATE:  Not devirginate. [Obs.] Chapman. 

INDEVOTE:  Not devoted. [Obs.] Bentley. Clarendon. 

INDEVOTION:  Want of devotion; impiety; irreligion. "An age of indevotion." Jer. Taylor. 

INDEVOUT:  Not devout.  -- In*de*vout"ly, adv. 

INDEW:  To indue. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INDEX:  The second digit, that next pollex, in the manus, or hand; the forefinger; index finger.  6. (Math.)  The figure or letter which shows the power or root of a quantity; the exponent. [In this sense the plural is always indices.] Index error, the error in the reading of a mathematical instrument arising from the zero of the index not being in complete adjustment with that of the limb, or with its theoretically perfect position in the instrument; a correction to be applied to the instrument readings equal to the error of the zero adjustment.  -- Index expurgatorius. Etym: [L.] See Index prohibitorius (below).  -- Index finger. See Index, 5.  -- Index glass, the mirror on the index of a quadrant, sextant, etc.  -- Index hand, the pointer or hand of a clock, watch, or other registering machine; a hand that points to something.  -- Index of a logarithm (Math.), the integral part of the logarithm, and always one less than the number of integral figures in the given number. It is also called the characteristic.  -- Index of refraction, or Refractive index (Opt.), the number which expresses the ratio of the sine of the angle of incidence to the sine of the angle of refraction. Thus the index of refraction for sulphur is 2, because, when light passes out of air into sulphur, the sine of the angle of incidence is double the sine of the angle of refraction.  -- Index plate, a graduated circular plate, or one with circular rows of holes differently spaced; used in machines for graduating circles, cutting gear teeth, etc.  -- Index prohibitorius Etym: [L.], or Prohibitory index (R. C. Ch.), a catalogue of books which are forbidden by the church to be read; the index expurgatorius Etym: [L.], or expurgatory index, is a catalogue of books from which passages marked as against faith or morals must be removed before Catholics can read them. These catalogues are published with additions, from time to time, by the Congregation of the Index, composed of cardinals, theologians, etc., under the sanction of the pope. Hook.  -- Index rerum Etym: [L.], a tabulated and alphabetized notebook, for systematic preservation of items, quotations, etc. 

INDEX:  To provide with an index or table of references; to put into an index; as, to index a book, or its contents. 

INDEXER:  One who makes an index. 

INDEXICAL:  Of, pertaining to, or like, an index; having the form of an index. 

INDEXICALLY:  In the manner of an index. 

INDEXTERITY:  Want of dexterity or readiness, especially in the use of the hands; clumsiness; awkwardness. Harvey. 

INDIA:  A country in Southern Asia; the two peninsulas of Hither and Farther India; in a restricted sense, Hither India, or Hindostan. India ink, a nearly black pigment brought chiefly from China, used for water colors. It is in rolls, or in square, and consists of lampblack or ivory black and animal glue. Called also China ink. The true India ink is sepia. See Sepia.  -- India matting, floor matting made in China, India, etc., from grass and reeds; -- also called Canton, or China, matting.  -- India paper, a variety of Chinese paper, of smooth but not glossy surface, used for printing from engravings, woodcuts, etc.  -- India proof (Engraving), a proof impression from an engraved plate, taken on India paper.  -- India rubber. See Caoutchouc.  -- India-rubber tree (Bot.), any tree yielding caoutchouc, but especially the East Indian Ficus elastica, often cultivated for its large, shining, elliptical leaves. 

INDIADEM:  To place or set in a diadem, as a gem or gems. 

INDIAMAN:  A large vessel in the India trade. Macaulay. 

INDIANEER:  An Indiaman.  INDIA RUBBER In"di*a rub"ber  . See Caoutchouc.  INDIA STEEL In"di*a steel.  Same as Wootz. 

INDICAL:  Indexical. [R.] Fuller. 

INDICAN:  A glucoside obtained from woad (indigo plant) and other plants, as a yellow or light brown sirup. It has a nauseous bitter taste, a decomposes or drying. By the action of acids, ferments, etc., it breaks down into sugar and indigo. It is the source of natural indigo.  2. (Physiol. Chem.)  An indigo-forming substance, found in urine, and other animal fluids, and convertible into red and blue indigo (urrhodin and uroglaucin). Chemically, it is indoxyl sulphate of potash, C8H6NSO4K, and is derived from the indol formed in the alimentary canal. Called also uroxanthin. 

INDICANT:  Serving to point out, as a remedy; indicating. 

INDICANT:  That which indicates or points out; as, an indicant of the remedy for a disease. 

INDICATE:  To show or manifest by symptoms; to point to as the proper remedies; as, great prostration of strength indicates the use of stimulants.  3. (Mach.)  To investigate the condition or power of, as of steam engine, by means of an indicator.  Syn.  -- To show; mark; signify; denote; discover; evidence; evince; manifest; declare; specify; explain; exhibit; present; reveal; disclose; display. 

INDICATED:  Shown; denoted; registered; measured. Indicated power. See Indicated horse power, under Horse power. 

INDICATION:  Any symptom or occurrence in a disease, which serves to direct to suitable remedies.  Syn.  -- Proof; demonstration; sign; token; mark; evidence; signal. 

INDICATIVE:  Suggestive; representing the whole by a part, as a fleet by a ship, a forest by a tree, etc. Indicative mood (Gram.), that mood or form of the verb which indicates, that is, which simply affirms or denies or inquires; as, he writes; he is not writing; has the mail arrived 

INDICATIVE:  The indicative mood. 

INDICATIVELY:  In an indicative manner; in a way to show or signify. 

INDICATOR:  A pressure gauge; a water gauge, as for a steam boiler; an apparatus or instrument for showing the working of a machine or moving part; as: (a) (Steam Engine) An instrument which draws a diagram showing the varying pressure in the cylinder of an engine or pump at every point of the stroke. It consists of a small cylinder communicating with the engine cylinder and fitted with a piston which the varying pressure drives upward more or less against the resistance of a spring. A lever imparts motion to a pencil which traces the diagram on a card wrapped around a vertical drum which is turned back and forth by a string connected with the piston rod of the engine. See Indicator card (below). (b) A telltale connected with a hoisting machine, to show, at the surface, the position of the cage in the shaft of a mine, etc.  3. (Mech.)  The part of an instrument by which an effect is indicated, as an index or pointer.  4. (Zoöl.)  Any bird of the genus Indicator and allied genera. See Honey guide, under Honey.  5. (Chem.)  That which indicates the condition of acidity, alkalinity, or the deficiency, excess, or sufficiency of a standard reagent, by causing an appearance, disappearance, or change of color, as in titration or volumetric analysis.  Note: The common indicators are limits, tropæolin, phenol phthalein, potassic permanganate, etc. Indicator card, the figure drawn by an engine indicator, by means of which the working of the engine can be investigated and its power calculated. The Illustration shows one form of indicator card, from a steam engine, together with scales by which the pressure of the steam above or below that of the atmosphere, corresponding to any position of the engine piston in its stroke, can be measured. Called also indicator diagram.  -- Indicator telegraph, a telegraph in which the signals are the deflections of a magnetic needle, as in the trans-Atlantic system. 

INDICATORY:  Serving to show or make known; showing; indicative; signifying; implying. 

INDICATRIX:  A certain conic section supposed to be drawn in the tangent plane to any surface, and used to determine the accidents of curvature of the surface at the point of contact. The curve is similar to the intersection of the surface with a parallel to the tangent plane and indefinitely near it. It is an ellipse when the curvature is synclastic, and an hyperbola when the curvature is anticlastic. 

INDICAVIT:  A writ of prohibition against proceeding in the spiritual court in certain cases, when the suit belongs to the common-law courts. Wharton (Law Dict. ). 

INDICE:  Index; indication. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

INDICES:  See Index. 

INDICIA:  Discriminating marks; signs; tokens; indications; appearances. Burrill. 

INDICIBLE:  Unspeakable. [Obs.] 

INDICOLITE:  A variety of tourmaline of an indigo-blue color. 

INDICT:  To charge with a crime, in due form of law, by the finding or presentment of a grand jury; to find an indictment against; as, to indict a man for arson. It is the peculiar province of a grand jury to indict, as it is of a house of representatives to impeach. 

INDICTABLE:  Capable of being, or liable to be, indicted; subject to indictment; as, an indictable offender or offense. 

INDICTEE:  A person indicted. 

INDICTER:  One who indicts. 

INDICTIVE:  Proclaimed; declared; public. Kennet. 

INDICTMENT:  The formal statement of an offense, as framed by the prosecuting authority of the State, and found by the grand jury.  Note: To the validity of an indictment a finding by the grand jury is essential, while an information rests only on presentation by the prosecuting authority.  3. An accusation in general; a formal accusation. Bill of indictment. See under Bill. 

INDICTOR:  One who indicts. Bacon. 

INDIES:  A name designating the East Indies, also the West Indies. Our king has all the Indies in his arms. Shak. 

INDIFFERENCY:  Absence of interest in, or influence from, anything; unconcernedness; equilibrium; indifferentism; indifference. Gladstone. To give ourselves to a detestable indifferency or neutrality in this cause. Fuller. Moral liberty . . . does not, after all, consist in a power of indifferency, or in a power of choosing without regard to motives. Hazlitt. 

INDIFFERENT:  Free from bias or prejudice; impartial; unbiased; disinterested. In choice of committees for ripening business for the counsel, it is better indifferent persons than to make an indifferency by putting in those that are strong on both sides. Bacon. Indifferent tissue (Anat.), the primitive, embryonic, undifferentiated tissue, before conversion into connective, muscular, nervous, or other definite tissue. 

INDIFFERENT:  To a moderate degree; passably; tolerably. [Obs.] "News indifferent good." Shak. 

INDIFFERENTISM:  Same as Identism.  3. (R. C. Ch.)  A heresy consisting in an unconcern for any particular creed, provided the morals be right and good. Gregory XVI. 

INDIFFERENTIST:  One governed by indifferentism. 

INDIFFERENTLY:  In an indifferent manner; without distinction or preference; impartially; without concern, wish, affection, or aversion; tolerably; passably. That they may truly and indifferently minister justice, to the punishment of wickedness and vice, and to the maintenance of thy true religion, and virtue. Book of Com. Prayer [Eng. Ed. ] Set honor in one eye and death i' the other, And I will look on both indifferently. Shak. I hope it may indifferently entertain your lordship at an unbending hour. Rowe. 

INDIFULVIN:  A reddish resinous substance, obtained from indican. 

INDIFUSCIN:  A brown amorphous powder, obtained from indican. 

INDIGEEN:  Same as Indigene. Darwin. 

INDIGENCE:  The condition of being indigent; want of estate, or means of comfortable subsistence; penury; poverty; as, helpless, indigence. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Poverty; penury; destitution; want; need; privation; lack. See Poverty. 

INDIGENCY:  Indigence. New indigencies founded upon new desires. South. 

INDIGENE:  One born in a country; an aboriginal animal or plant; an autochthon. Evelyn. Tylor. 

INDIGENTLY:  In an indigent manner. 

INDIGEST:  Crude; unformed; unorganized; undigested. [Obs.] "A chaos rude and indigest." W. Browne. "Monsters and things indigest." Shak. 

INDIGEST:  Something indigested. [Obs.] Shak. 

INDIGESTEDNESS:  The state or quality of being undigested; crudeness. Bp. Burnet. 

INDIGESTIBILITY:  The state or quality of being indigestible; indigestibleness. 

INDIGESTION:  Lack of proper digestive action; a failure of the normal changes which food should undergo in the alimentary canal; dyspepsia; incomplete or difficult digestion. 

INDIGITATE:  To communicative ideas by the fingers; to show or compute by the fingers. [Obs.] 

INDIGITATE:  To point out with the finger; to indicate. [Obs.] The depressing this finger, . . . in the right hand indigitate six hundred. Sir T. Browne. 

INDIGITATION:  The act of pointing out as with the finger; indication. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

INDIGLUCIN:  The variety of sugar (glucose) obtained from the glucoside indican. It is unfermentable, but reduces Fehling's solution. 

INDIGN:  Unworthy; undeserving; disgraceful; degrading. Chaucer. Counts it scorn to draw Comfort indign from any meaner thing. Trench.  INDIGNANCE; INDIGNANCY In*dig"nance, In*dig"nan*cy, n.  Indignation. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INDIGNANT:  Affected with indignation; wrathful; passionate; irate; feeling wrath, as when a person is exasperated by unworthy or unjust treatment, by a mean action, or by a degrading accusation. He strides indignant, and with haughty cries To single fight the fairy prince defies. Tickell. 

INDIGNANTLY:  In an indignant manner. 

INDIGNIFY:  To treat disdainfully or with indignity; to contemn. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INDIGNITY:  Any action toward another which manifests contempt for him; an offense against personal dignity; unmerited contemptuous treatment; contumely; incivility or injury, accompanied with insult. How might a prince of my great hopes forget So great indignities you laid upon me Shak. A person of so great place and worth constrained to endure so foul indignities. Hooker. 

INDIGNLY:  Unworthily. [Obs.] 

INDIGO:  A blue dyestuff obtained from several plants belonging to very different genera and orders; as, the woad, Isatis tinctoria, Indigofera tinctoria, I. Anil, Nereum tinctorium, etc. It is a dark blue earthy substance, tasteless and odorless, with a copper-violet luster when rubbed. Indigo does not exist in the plants as such, but is obtained by decomposition of the glycoside indican.  Note: Commercial indigo contains the essential coloring principle indigo blue or indigotine, with several other dyes; as, indigo red, indigo brown, etc., and various impurities. Indigo is insoluble in ordinary reagents, with the exception of strong sulphuric acid. Chinese indigo (Bot.), Isatis indigotica, a kind of woad.  -- Wild indigo (Bot.), the American herb Baptisia tinctoria which yields a poor quality of indigo, as do several other species of the same genus. 

INDIGO:  Having the color of, pertaining to, or derived from, indigo. Indigo berry (Bot.), the fruit of the West Indian shrub Randia aculeata, used as a blue dye.  -- Indigo bird (Zoöl.), a small North American finch (Cyanospiza cyanea). The male is indigo blue in color. Called also indigo bunting.  -- Indigo blue. (a) The essential coloring material of commercial indigo, from which it is obtained as a dark blue earthy powder, with a reddish luster, C16H10N2O2, which may be crystallized by sublimation. Indigo blue is also made from artificial amido cinnamic acid, and from artificial isatine; and these methods are of great commercial importance. Called also indigotin. (b) A dark, dull blue color like the indigo of commerce.  -- Indigo brown (Chem.), a brown resinous substance found in crude indigo.  -- Indigo copper (Min.), covellite.  -- Indigo green, a green obtained from indigo.  -- Indigo plant (Bot.), a leguminous plant of several species (genus Indigofera), from which indigo is prepared. The different varieties are natives of Asia, Africa, and America. Several species are cultivated, of which the most important are the I. tinctoria, or common indigo plant, the I. Anil, a larger species, and the I. disperma.  -- Indigo purple, a purple obtained from indigo.  -- Indigo red, a dyestuff, isomeric with indigo blue, obtained from crude indigo as a dark brown amorphous powder.  -- Indigo snake (Zoöl.), the gopher snake.  -- Indigo white, a white crystalline powder obtained by reduction from indigo blue, and by oxidation easily changed back to it; -- called also indigogen.  -- Indigo yellow, a substance obtained from indigo. 

INDIGOFERA:  A genus of leguminous plants having many species, mostly in tropical countries, several of them yielding indigo, esp. Indigofera tinctoria, and I. Anil. 

INDIGOGEN:  See Indigo white, under Indigo.  2. (Physiol. Chem.)  Same as Indican, 2. 

INDIGOMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the strength of an indigo solution, as in volumetric analysis. Ure. 

INDIGOMETRY:  The art or method of determining the coloring power of indigo. 

INDIGOTIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, indigo; as, indigotic acid, which is also called anilic or nitrosalicylic acid. 

INDIGOTIN:  See Indigo blue, under Indigo. 

INDIGRUBIN:  Same as Urrhodin. 

INDIHUMIN:  A brown amorphous substance resembling humin, and obtained from indican. 

INDILATORY:  Not dilatory. [Obs.] 

INDILIGENCE:  Want of diligence. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

INDILIGENT:  Not diligent; idle; slothful. [Obs.] Feltham.  -- In*dil"i*gent*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

INDIMINISHABLE:  Incapable of being diminished. [R.] Milton. 

INDIN:  A dark red crystalline substance, isomeric with and resembling indigo blue, and obtained from isatide and dioxindol. 

INDIRECT:  Not reaching the end aimed at by the most plain and direct method; as, an indirect proof, demonstration, etc. Indirect claims, claims for remote or consequential damage. Such claims were presented to and thrown out by the commissioners who arbitrated the damage inflicted on the United States by the Confederate States cruisers built and supplied by Great Britain.  -- Indirect demonstration, a mode of demonstration in which proof is given by showing that any other supposition involves an absurdity (reductio ad absurdum), or an impossibility; thus, one quantity may be proved equal to another by showing that it can be neither greater nor less.  -- Indirect discourse. (Gram.) See Direct discourse, under Direct.  -- Indirect evidence, evidence or testimony which is circumstantial or inferential, but without witness; -- opposed to direct evidence.  -- Indirect tax, a tax, such as customs, excises, etc., exacted directly from the merchant, but paid indirectly by the consumer in the higher price demanded for the articles of merchandise. 

INDIRECTED:  Not directed; aimless. [Obs.] 

INDIRECTION:  Oblique course or means; dishonest practices; indirectness. "By indirections find directions out." Shak. 

INDIRECTLY:  In an direct manner; not in a straight line or course; not in express terms; obliquely; not by direct means; hence, unfairly; wrongly. To tax it indirectly by taxing their expense. A. Smith. Your crown and kingdom indirectly held. Shak. 

INDIRETIN:  A dark brown resinous substance obtained from indican. 

INDIRUBIN:  A substance isomeric with, and resembling, indigo blue, and accompanying it as a side product, in its artificial production. 

INDISCERNIBLE:  Not to be discerned; imperceptible; not discoverable or visible. Secret and indiscernible ways. Jer. Taylor. -- In`dis*cern"i*ble*ness, n.  -- In`dis*cern"i*bly, adv.  INDISCERPIBILITY; INDISCERPTIBILITY In`dis*cerp`i*bil"i*ty, In`dis*cerp`ti*bil"i*ty, n.  The state or quality of being indiscerpible. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.  INDISCERPIBLE; INDISCERPTIBLE In`dis*cerp"i*ble, In`dis*cerp"ti*ble, a.  Not discerpible; inseparable. [Obs.] Bp. Butler.  -- In`dis*cerp"i*ble*ness, n., In`dis*cerp"ti*ble*ness, n. [Obs.] -- In`dis*cerp"ti*bly, adv. [Obs.] 

INDISCIPLINABLE:  Not disciplinable; undisciplinable. [R.] 

INDISCIPLINE:  Want of discipline or instruction. [R.] 

INDISCOVERABLE:  Not discoverable; undiscoverable. J. Conybeare. 

INDISCOVERY:  Want of discovery. [Obs.] 

INDISCREET:  Not discreet; wanting in discretion. So drunken, and so indiscreet an officer. Shak.  Syn.  -- Imprudent; injudicious; inconsiderate; rash; hasty; incautious; heedless; undiscerning; foolish.  -- In`dis*creet"ly, adv.  -- In`dis*creet"ness, n. 

INDISCRIMINATE:  Not discriminate; wanting discrimination; undistinguishing; not making any distinction; confused; promiscuous. "Blind or indiscriminate forgiveness." I. Taylor. The indiscriminate defense of right and wrong. Junius. -- In`dis*crim"i*nate*ly, adv. Cowper. 

INDISCRIMINATING:  Not discriminating.  -- In`dis*crim"i*na`ting*ly, adv. 

INDISCRIMINATION:  Want of discrimination or distinction; impartiality. Jefferson. 

INDISCRIMINATIVE:  Making no distinction; not discriminating. 

INDISCUSSED:  Not discussed. [Obs.] Donne. 

INDISPENSABILITY:  Indispensableness. 

INDISPENSABLE:  Not admitting dispensation; not subject to release or exemption. [R.] The law was moral and indispensable. Bp. Burnet.  3. Unavoidable; inevitable. [Obs.] Fuller. 

INDISPENSABLENESS:  The state or quality of being indispensable, or absolutely necessary. S. Clarke. 

INDISPENSABLY:  In an indispensable manner. "Indispensably necessary." Bp. Warburton. 

INDISPERSED:  Not dispersed. [R.] 

INDISPOSEDNESS:  The condition or quality of being indisposed. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

INDISPUTABILITY:  Indisputableness. 

INDISPUTABLE:  Not disputable; incontrovertible; too evident to admit of dispute.  Syn.  -- Incontestable; unquestionable; incontrovertible; undeniable; irrefragable; certain; positive; undoubted; sure; infallible.  -- In*dis"pu*ta*ble*ness, n.  -- In*dis"pu*ta*bly, adv. 

INDISPUTED:  Undisputed. 

INDISSIPABLE:  Incapable o 

INDISSOLUBILITY:  The quality or state of being indissoluble. 

INDISSOLUBLENESS:  Indissolubility. Sir M. Hale. 

INDISSOLUBLY:  In an indissoluble manner. On they move, indissolubly firm. Milton. 

INDISSOLVABLE:  Not dissolvable; incapable of being dissolved or separated; incapable oas, an indissolvable bond of union. Bp. Warburton. 

INDISSOLVABLENESS:  Indissolubleness. 

INDISTANCY:  Want of distance o [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

INDISTINCTIBLE:  Indistinguishable. [Obs.] T. Warton. 

INDISTINCTION:  Want of distinction or distinguishableness; confusion; uncertainty; indiscrimination. The indistinction of many of the same name . . . hath made some doubt. Sir T. Browne. An indistinction of all persons, or equality of all orders, is far from being agreeable to the will of God. Sprat. 

INDISTINCTIVE:  Having nothing distinctive; common.  -- In`dis*tinc"tive*ness, n. 

INDISTINCTLY:  In an indistinct manner; not clearly; confusedly; dimly; as, certain ideas are indistinctly comprehended. In its sides it was bounded distinctly, but on its ends confusedly an indistinctly. Sir I. Newton. 

INDISTINCTNESS:  The quality or condition of being indistinct; want of definiteness; dimness; confusion; as, the indistinctness of a picture, or of comprehension; indistinctness of vision. 

INDISTINGUISHABLE:  Not distinguishable; not capable of being perceived, known, or discriminated as separate and distinct; hence, not capable of being perceived or known; as, in the distance the flagship was indisguishable; the two copies were indisguishable in form or color; the difference between them was indisguishable. 

INDISTINGUISHABLY:  In a indistinguishable manner. Sir W. Scott. 

INDISTINGUISHED:  Indistinct. [R.] "That indistinguished mass." Sir T. Browne. 

INDISTINGUISHING:  Making no difference; indiscriminative; impartial; as, indistinguishing liberalities. [Obs.] Johnson. 

INDISTURBANCE:  Freedom from disturbance; calmness; repose; apathy; indifference. 

INDITCH:  To bury in, or cast into, a ditch. Bp. Hall. 

INDITE:  To compose; to write, as a poem. Wounded I sing, tormented I indite. Herbert. 

INDITEMENT:  The act of inditing. Craig. 

INDITER:  One who indites. Smart. 

INDIUM:  A rare metallic element, discovered in certain ores of zinc, by means of its characteristic spectrum of two indigo blue lines; hence, its name. In appearance it resembles zinc, being white or lead gray, soft, malleable and easily fusible, but in its chemical relation it resembles aluminium or gallium. Symbol In. Atomic weight, 113.4. 

INDIVERTIBLE:  Not to be diverted or turned aside. [R.] Lamb. 

INDIVIDABLE:  Indivisible. [R.] Shak. 

INDIVIDED:  Undivided. [R.] Bp. Patrick. 

INDIVIDUALISTIC:  Of or pertaining to the individual or individualism. London Athenæum. 

INDIVIDUALIZATION:  The act of individualizing; the state of being individualized; individuation. 

INDIVIDUALIZE:  The mark as an individual, or to distinguish from others by peculiar properties; to invest with individuality. The peculiarities which individualize and distinguish the humor of Addison. N. Drake. 

INDIVIDUALIZER:  One who individualizes. 

INDIVIDUATE:  Undivided. [Obs.] 

INDIVIDUATE:  To distinguish from others from others of the species; to endow with individuality; to divide into individuals; to discriminate. The soul, as the prime individuating principle, and the said reserved portion of matter as an essential and radical part of the individuation, shall . . . make up and restore the same individual person. South. Life is individuated into infinite numbers, that have their distinct sense and pleasure. Dr. H. More. 

INDIVIDUATION:  The act of individuating or state of being individuated; individualization. H. Spencer. 

INDIVIDUATOR:  One who, or that which, individuates. Sir K. Digby. 

INDIVIDUITY:  Separate existence; individuality; oneness. Fuller. 

INDIVINITY:  Want or absence of divine power or of divinity. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INDIVISIBILITY:  The state or property of being indivisible or inseparable; inseparability. Locke. 

INDIVISIBLE:  Not capable of exact division, as one quantity by another; incommensurable. 

INDIVISIBLE:  An infinitely small quantity which is assumed to admit of no further division. Method of indivisibles, a kind of calculus, formerly in use, in which lines were considered as made up of an infinite number of points; surfaces, as made up of an infinite number of lines; and volumes, as made up of an infinite number of surfaces. 

INDIVISIBLENESS:  The state of being indivisible; indivisibility. W. Montagu. 

INDIVISIBLY:  In an indivisible manner. 

INDIVISION:  A state of being not divided; oneness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.  INDO- In"do-. Etym: [From L. Indus East Indian.]  A prefix signifying Indian (i. e., East Indian); of or pertaining of India. 

INDOANILINE:  Any one of a series of artificial blue dyes, in appearance resembling indigo, for which they are often used as substitutes.  INDO-ARYAN In`do-Ar"yan, a.  Pert. to the Indo-Aryans, or designating, or of, the Aryan languages of India.  INDO-ARYAN In`do-Ar"yan, n.  A member of one of the native races of India of Aryan speech and blood, characterized by tall stature, dolichocephaly, fair complexion with dark hair and eyes, plentiful beard, and narrow and prominent nose.  INDO-BRITON In`do-*Brit"on, n. Etym: [Indo- + Briton.]  A person born in India, of mixed Indian and British blood; a half-caste. Malcom.  INDO-CHINESE In`do-Chi*nese", a. Etym: [Indo- + Chinese.]  Of or pertaining to Indo-China (i. e., Farther India, or India beyond the Ganges). 

INDOCIBILITY:  The state of being indocible; indocibleness; indocility. 

INDOCIBLE:  Incapable of being taught, or not easily instructed; dull in intellect; intractable; unteachable; indocile. Bp. Hall.  -- In*doc"i*ble*ness, n. 

INDOCILE:  Not teachable; indisposed to be taught, trained, or disciplined; not easily instructed or governed; dull; intractable. 

INDOCILITY:  The quality or state of being indocile; dullness of intellect; unteachableness; intractableness. The stiffness and indocility of the Pharisees. W. Montagu. 

INDOCTRINATE:  To instruct in the rudiments or principles of learning, or of a branch of learning; to imbue with learning; to instruct in, or imbue with, principles or doctrines; to teach; -- often followed by in. A master that . . . took much delight in indoctrinating his young, unexperienced favorite. Clarendon. 

INDOCTRINATION:  The act of indoctrinating, or the condition of being indoctrinated; instruction in the rudiments and principles of any science or system of belief; information. Sir T. Browne.  INDO-DO-CHINESE LANGUAGES In`do-do-Chinese languages.  A family of languages, mostly of the isolating type, although some are agglutinative, spoken in the great area extending from northern India in the west to Formosa in the east and from Central Asia in the north to the Malay Peninsula in the south.  INDO-ENGLISH In`do-Eng"lish, a. Etym: [Indo- + English.]  Of or relating to the English who are born or reside in India; Anglo-Indian.  INDO-EUROPEAN In`do-Eu`ro*pe"an, a.  Aryan; -- applied to the languages of India and Europe which are derived from the prehistoric Aryan language; also, pertaining to the people or nations who speak these languages; as, the Indo- European or Aryan family. The common origin of the Indo-European nations. Tylor. 

INDOGEN:  A complex, nitrogenous radical, C8H5NO, regarded as the essential nucleus of indigo. 

INDOGENIDE:  Any one of the derivatives of indogen, which contain that group as a nucleus.  INDO-GERMANIC In`do-Ger*man"ic, a. Etym: [Indo- + Germanic.]  1. Same as Aryan, and Indo-European.  2. Pertaining to or denoting the Teutonic family of languages as related to the Sanskrit, or derived from the ancient Aryan language. 

INDOIN:  A substance resembling indigo blue, obtained artificially from certain isatogen compounds. 

INDOL:  A white, crystalline substance, C8H7N, obtained from blue indigo, and almost all indigo derivatives, by a process of reduction. It is also formed from albuminous matter, together with skatol, by putrefaction, and by fusion with caustic potash, and is present in human excrement, as well as in the intestinal canal of some herbivora. 

INDOLENCY:  Indolence. [Obs.] Holland. 

INDOLENT:  Causing little or no pain or annoyance; as, an indolent tumor.  Syn.  -- Idle; lazy; slothful; sluggish; listless; inactive; inert. See Idle. 

INDOLENTLY:  In an indolent manner. Calm and serene you indolently sit. Addison. 

INDOLES:  Natural disposition; natural quality or abilities. 

INDOLIN:  A dark resinous substance, polymeric with indol, and obtained by the reduction of indigo white. 

INDOMABLE:  Indomitable. [Obs.] 

INDOMITABLE:  Not to be subdued; untamable; invincible; as, an indomitable will, courage, animal. 

INDOMITE:  Not tamed; untamed; savage; wild. [Obs.] J. Salkeld. 

INDOMPTABLE:  Indomitable. [Obs.] Tooke. 

INDONESIAN:  Of or pertaining to Indonesia or Indonesians. 

INDONESIAN:  A member of a race forming the chief pre-Malay population of the Malay Archipelago, and probably sprung from a mixture of Polynesian and Mongoloid immigrants. According to Keane, the autochthonous Negritos were largely expelled by the Caucasian Polynesians, themselves followed by Mongoloid peoples of Indo-Chinese affinities, from mixture with whom sprang the Indonesian race.  The term Indonesian, introduced by Logan to designate the light- colored non-Malay inhabitants of the Eastern Archipelago, is now used as a convenient collective name for all the peoples of Malaysia and Polynesia who are neither Malay nor Papuans, but of Caucasic type.  . . . The true Indonesians are of tall stature (5 ft. 10 in.), muscular frame, rather oval features, high, open forehead, large straight or curved nose, large full eyes always horizontal and with no trace of the third lid, light brown complexion (cinnamon or ruddy brown), long black hair, not lank but often slightly curled or wavy, skull generally brachycephalous like that of the melanochroic European. A. H. Keane.  The Indonesians [of the Philippines], with the tribal population of some 251, 200, live almost exclusively on the great island of Mindanao. They are not only physically superior to the Negritos, but to the peoples of the Malayan race as well, and are, as a rule, quite intelligent. Rep. Phil. Com. , 1902. 

INDOOR:  Done or being within doors; within a house or institution; domestic; as, indoor work. 

INDOORS:  Within the house; -- usually separated, in doors. 

INDOPHENOL:  Any one of a series of artificial blue dyestuffs, resembling indigo in appearance, and obtained by the action of phenol on certain nitrogenous derivatives of quinone. Simple indophenol proper has not yet been isolated. 

INDORSABLE:  Capable of being indorsed; transferable; convertible. 

INDORSATION:  Indorsement. [Obs.] 

INDORSE:  To write one's name, alone or with other words, upon the back of (a paper), for the purpose of transferring it, or to secure the payment of a  4. To give one's name or support to; to sanction; to aid by approval; to approve; as, to indorse an opinion. To indorse in blank, to write one's name on the back of a note or bill, leaving a blank to be filled by the holder. 

INDORSED:  See Addorsed. 

INDORSEE:  The person to whom a note or bill is indorsed, or assigned by indorsement. 

INDORSEMENT:  The person who indorses. [Written also endorser.] 

INDOW:  See Endow. 

INDOWMENT:  See Endowment. 

INDOXYL:  A nitrogenous substance, C8H7NO, isomeric with oxindol, obtained as an oily liquid. 

INDOXYLIC:  Of or pertaining to, or producing, indoxyl; as, indoxylic acid. 

INDRAWN:  Drawn in. 

INDRENCH:  To overwhelm with water; to drench; to drown. [Obs.] Shak.  INDRIS; INDRI In"dris, In"dri, n. (Zoöl.)  Any lemurine animal of the genus Indris.  Note: Several species are known, all of them natives of Madagascar, as the diadem indris (I. diadema), which has a white ruff around the forehead; the woolly indris (I. laniger); and the short-tailed or black indris (I. brevicaudatus), which is black, varied with gray. 

INDUBITABLE:  Not dubitable or doubtful; too evident to admit of doubt; unquestionable; evident; apparently certain; as, an indubitable conclusion.  -- n.  That which is indubitable.  Syn.  -- Unquestionable; evident; incontrovertible; incontestable; undeniable; irrefragable. 

INDUBITABLENESS:  The state or quality of being indubitable. 

INDUBITABLY:  Undoubtedly; unquestionably; in a manner to remove all doubt. Oracles indubitably clear and infallibly certain. Barrow. 

INDUBITATE:  Not questioned or doubtful; evident; certain. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INDUBITATE:  To bring into doubt; to cause to be doubted. [Obs.] To conceal, or indubitate, his exigency. Sir T. Browne. 

INDUCE:  To produce, or cause, by proximity without contact or transmission, as a particular electric or magnetic condition in a body, by the approach of another body in an opposite electric or magnetic state.  6. (Logic)  To generalize or conclude as an inference from all the particulars; -- the opposite of deduce.  Syn.  -- To move; instigate; urge; impel; incite; press; influence; actuate.  INDUCED CURRENT In*duced" cur"rent. (Elec.)  A current due to variation in the magnetic field surrounding its conductor. 

INDUCEMENT:  Matter stated by way of explanatory preamble or introduction to the main allegations of a pleading; a leading to.  Syn.  -- Motive; reason; influence. See Motive. 

INDUCER:  One who, or that which, induces or incites. 

INDUCTANCE:  Capacity for induction; the coefficient of self-induction.   The unit of inductance is the henry.  INDUCTANCE COIL In*duc"tance coil. (Elec.)  A choking coil. 

INDUCTEOUS:  Rendered electro-polar by induction, or brought into the opposite electrical state by the influence of inductive bodies. 

INDUCTILE:  Not ductile; incapable of being drawn into threads, as a metal; inelastic; tough. 

INDUCTILITY:  The quality or state of being inductile. 

INDUCTION:  The act or process of reasoning from a part to a whole, from particulars to generals, or from the individual to the universal; also, the result or inference so reached. Induction is an inference drawn from all the particulars. Sir W. Hamilton. Induction is the process by which we conclude that what is true of certain individuals of a class, is true of the whole class, or that what is true at certain times will be true in similar circumstances at all times. J. S. Mill.  4. The introduction of a clergyman into a benefice, or of an official into a office, with appropriate acts or ceremonies; the giving actual possession of an ecclesiastical living or its temporalities.  5. (Math.)  A process of demonstration in which a general truth is gathered from an examination of particular cases, one of which is known to be true, the examination being so conducted that each case is made to depend on the preceding one; -- called also successive induction.  6. (Physics)  The property by which one body, having electrical or magnetic polarity, causes or induces it in another body without direct contact; an impress of electrical or magnetic force or condition from one body on another without actual contact. Electro-dynamic induction, the action by which a variable or interrupted current of electricity excites another current in a neighboring conductor forming a closed circuit.  -- Electro-magnetic induction, the influence by which an electric current produces magnetic polarity in certain bodies near or around which it passes.  -- Electro-static induction, the action by which a body possessing a charge of statical electricity develops a charge of statical electricity of the opposite character in a neighboring body.  -- Induction coil, an apparatus producing induced currents of great intensity. It consists of a coil or helix of stout insulated copper wire, surrounded by another coil of very fine insulated wire, in which a momentary current is induced, when a current (as from a voltaic battery), passing through the inner coil, is made, broken, or varied. The inner coil has within it a core of soft iron, and is connected at its terminals with a condenser; -- called also inductorium, and Ruhmkorff's coil.  -- Induction pipe, port, or valve, a pipe, passageway, or valve, for leading or admitting a fluid to a receiver, as steam to an engine cylinder, or water to a pump.  -- Magnetic induction, the action by which magnetic polarity is developed in a body susceptible to magnetic effects when brought under the influence of a magnet.  -- Magneto-electric induction, the influence by which a magnet excites electric currents in closed circuits. Logical induction, (Philos.), an act or method of reasoning from all the parts separately to the whole which they constitute, or into which they may be united collectively; the operation of discovering and proving general propositions; the scientific method.  -- Philosophical induction, the inference, or the act of inferring, that what has been observed or established in respect to a part, individual, or species, may, on the ground of analogy, be affirmed or received of the whole to which it belongs. This last is the inductive method of Bacon. It ascends from the parts to the whole, and forms, from the general analogy of nature, or special presumptions in the case, conclusions which have greater or less degrees of force, and which may be strengthened or weakened by subsequent experience and experiment. It relates to actual existences, as in physical science or the concerns of life. Logical induction is founded on the necessary laws of thought; philosophical induction, on the interpretation of the indications or analogy of nature.  Syn.  -- Deduction.  -- Induction, Deduction. In induction we observe a sufficient number of individual facts, and, on the ground of analogy, extend what is true of them to others of the same class, thus arriving at general principles or laws. This is the kind of reasoning in physical science. In deduction we begin with a general truth, which is already proven or provisionally assumed, and seek to connect it with some particular case by means of a middle term, or class of objects, known to be equally connected with both. Thus, we bring down the general into the particular, affirming of the latter the distinctive qualities of the former. This is the syllogistic method. By induction Franklin established the identity of lightning and electricity; by deduction he inferred that dwellings might be protected by lightning rods. 

INDUCTIONAL:  Pertaining to, or proceeding by, induction; inductive.  INDUCTION GENERATOR In*duc"tion gen"er*a`tor.  A machine built as an induction motor and driven above synchronous speed, thus acting as an alternating-current generator; - - called also asynchronous generator. Below synchronism the machine takes in electrical energy and acts as an induction motor; at synchronism the power component of current becomes zero and changes sign, so that above synchronism the machine (driven for this purpose by mechanical power) gives out electrical energy as a generator.  INDUCTION MOTOR Induction motor. (Elec.)  A type of alternating-current motor comprising two wound members, one stationary, called the stator, and the other rotating, called the rotor, these two members corresponding to a certain extent to the field and armature of a direct-current motor. 

INDUCTIVELY:  By induction or inference. 

INDUCTOMETER:  An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the degree or rate of electrical induction. 

INDUCTOR:  That portion of an electrical apparatus, in which is the inducing charge or current. 

INDUCTORIUM:  An induction coil.  INDUCTRIC; INDUCTRICAL In*duc"tric, In*duc"tric*al, a. (Elec.)  Acting by, or in a state of, induction; relating to electrical induction. 

INDUEMENT:  The act of induing, or state of being indued; investment; endowment. W. Montagu. 

INDULGE:  To indulge one's self; to gratify one's tastes or desires; esp., to give one's self up (to); to practice a forbidden or questionable act without restraint; -- followed by in, but formerly, also, by to. "Willing to indulge in easy vices." Johnson. 

INDULGEMENT:  Indulgence. [R.] Wood. 

INDULGENCE:  Remission of the temporal punishment due to sins, after the guilt of sin has been remitted by sincere repentance; absolution from the censures and public penances of the church. It is a payment of the debt of justice to God by the application of the merits of Christ and his saints to the contrite soul through the church. It is therefore believed to diminish or destroy for sins the punishment of purgatory. 

INDULGENCE:  To grant an indulgence to. 

INDULGENCY:  Indulgence. Dryden. 

INDULGENT:  Prone to indulge; yielding to the wishes, humor, or appetites of those under one's care; compliant; not opposing or restraining; tolerant; mild; favorable; not severe; as, an indulgent parent. Shak. The indulgent censure of posterity. Waller. The feeble old, indulgent of their ease. Dryden. 

INDULGENTIAL:  Relating to the indulgences of the Roman Catholic Church. Brevint. 

INDULGENTLY:  In an indulgent manner; mildly; favorably. Dryden. 

INDULGER:  One who indulges. W. Montagu. 

INDULGIATE:  To indulge. [R.] Sandys. 

INDULINE:  A duty levied on all importations. 

INDUMENT:  Plumage; feathers. 

INDURANCE:  See Endurance. 

INDURATE:  To grow hard; to harden, or become hard; as, clay indurates by drying, and by heat. 

INDURATED:  Hardened; as, indurated clay; an indurated heart. Goldsmith. 

INDUSIAL:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, the petrified cases of the larvæ of certain insects. Indusial limestone (Geol.), a fresh-water limestone, largely composed of the agglomerated cases of caddice worms, or larvæ of caddice flies (Phryganea). It is found in Miocene strata of Auvergne, France, and some other localities.  INDUSIATE; INDUSIATED In*du"si*ate, In*du"si*a`ted, a. (Bot.)  Furnished with an indusium. 

INDUSTRIAL:  Consisting in industry; pertaining to industry, or the arts and products of industry; concerning those employed in labor, especially in manual labor, and their wages, duties, and rights. The great ideas of industrial development and economic social amelioration. M. Arnold.  Industrial exhibition, a public exhibition of the various industrial products of a country, or of various countries.  -- Industrial school, a school for teaching one or more branches of industry; also, a school for educating neglected children, and training them to habits of industry. 

INDUSTRIALLY:  With reference to industry. 

INDUSTRY:  Human exertion of any kind employed for the creation of value, and regarded by some as a species of capital or wealth; labor.  Syn.  -- Diligence; assiduity; perseverance; activity; laboriousness; attention. See Diligence. 

INDUTIVE:  Covered; -- applied to seeds which have the usual integumentary covering. 

INDUVIAE:  Persistent portions of a calyx or corolla; also, leaves which do not disarticulate from the stem, and hence remain for a long time. 

INDUVIATE:  Covered with induviæ, as the upper part of the trunk of a palm tree. 

INDWELL:  To dwell in; to abide within; to remain in possession. The Holy Ghost became a dove, not as a symbol, but as a constantly indwelt form. Milman. 

INDWELLER:  An inhabitant. Spenser. 

INDWELLING:  Residence within, as in the heart. The personal indwelling of the Spirit in believers. South.  -INE -ine (; 104).  1. (Chem.)  A suffix, indicating that those substances of whose names it is a part are basic, and alkaloidal in their nature.  Note: All organic bases, and basic substances (especially nitrogenous substances), are systematically written with the termination -ine; as, quinine, morphine, guanidine, etc. All indifferent and neutral substances, as proteids, glycerides, glucosides, etc., should commonly be spelled with -in; as, gelatin, amygdalin, etc. This rue has no application to those numerous commercial or popular names with the termination -ine; as, gasoline, vaseline, etc.  2. (Organ. Chem.)  A suffix, used to indicate hydrocarbons of the second degree of unsaturation; i. e., members of the acetyline series; as, hexine, heptine, etc. 

INEARTH:  To inter. [R.] Southey. 

INEBRIANT:  Intoxicating. 

INEBRIANT:  Anything that intoxicates, as opium, alcohol, etc.; an intoxicant. Smart. 

INEBRIATE:  To become drunk. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INEBRIATE:  Intoxicated; drunk; habitually given to drink; stupefied. Thus spake Peter, as a man inebriate and made drunken with the sweetness of this vision, not knowing what he said. Udall. 

INEBRIATE:  One who is drunk or intoxicated; esp., an habitual drunkard; as, an asylum fro inebriates. Some inebriates have their paroxysms of inebriety. E. Darwin. 

INEBRIATION:  The condition of being inebriated; intoxication; figuratively, deprivation of sense and judgment by anything that exhilarates, as success. Sir T. Browne. Preserve him from the inebriation of prosperity. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- See Drunkenness. 

INEBRIETY:  Drunkenness; inebriation. E. Darwin. 

INEBRIOUS:  Intoxicated, or partially so; intoxicating. [R.] T. Brown. 

INEDIBLE:  Not edible; not fit for food. -- In*ed`i*bil"i*ty (#), n. 

INEDITED:  Not edited; unpublished; as, an inedited manuscript. T. Warton. 

INEE:  An arrow poison, made from an apocynaceous plant (Strophanthus hispidus) of the Gaboon country; -- called also onaye. 

INEFFABILITY:  The quality or state of being ineffable; ineffableness; unspeakableness. 

INEFFABLE:  Incapable of being expresses in words; unspeakable; unutterable; indescribable; as, the ineffable joys of heaven. Contentment with our lot . . . will diffuse ineffable contenBeattie. 

INEFFABLENESS:  The quality or state of being ineffable or unutterable; unspeakableness. 

INEFFABLY:  In a manner not to be expressed in words; unspeakably. Milton. 

INEFFACEABLE:  Incapable of being effaced; indelible; ineradicable. 

INEFFACEABLY:  So as not to be effaceable. 

INEFFECTIBLE:  Ineffectual; impracticable. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

INEFFECTIVE:  Not effective; ineffectual; futile; inefficient; useless; as, an ineffective appeal. The word of God, without the spirit, [is] a dead and ineffective letter. Jer. Taylor. 

INEFFECTIVELY:  In an ineffective manner; without effect; inefficiently; ineffectually. 

INEFFECTIVENESS:  Quality of being ineffective. 

INEFFECTUAL:  Not producing the proper effect; without effect; inefficient; weak; useless; futile; unavailing; as, an ineffectual attempt; an ineffectual expedient. Pope. The peony root has been much commended, . . . and yet has been by many found ineffectual. Boyle.  Syn.  -- Inefficient; useless; inefficacious; vain; fruitless; unavailing; futile. See Uselesss, Inefficacious. 

INEFFECTUALITY:  Ineffectualness. [R.] 

INEFFECTUALLY:  Without effect; in vain. Hereford . . . had been besieged for abouineffectually by the Scots. Ludlow. 

INEFFECTUALNESS:  Want of effect, or of power to produce it; inefficacy. The ineffectualness of some men's devotion. Wake. 

INEFFERVESCENCE:  Want of effervescence. Kirwan. 

INEFFERVESCENT:  Not effervescing, or not susceptible of effervescence; quiescent. 

INEFFERVESCIBILITY:  The quality of being ineffervescible. 

INEFFERVESCIBLE:  Not capable or susceptible of effervescence. 

INEFFICACIOUS:  Not efficacious; not having power to produce the effect desired; inadequate; incompetent; inefficient; impotent. Boyle. The authority of Parliament must become inefficacious . . . to restrain the growth of disorders. Burke.  Note: Ineffectual, says Johnson, rather denotes an actual failure, and inefficacious and habitual impotence to any effect. But the distinction is not always observed, nor can it be; for we can not always know whether means are inefficacious till experiment has proved them ineffectual. Inefficacious is therefore sometimes synonymous with ineffectual. 

INEFFICACIOUSLY:  without efficacy or effect. 

INEFFICACIOUSNESS:  Want of effect, or of power to produce the effect; inefficacy. 

INEFFICACY:  Want of power to produce the desired or proper effect; inefficiency; ineffectualness; futility; uselessness; fruitlessness; as, the inefficacy of medicines or means. The seeming inefficacy of censures. Bp. Hall. The inefficacy was soon proved, like that of many similar medicines. James Gregory. 

INEFFICIENCY:  The quality of being inefficient; want of power or energy sufficient; want of power or energy sufficient for the desired effect; inefficacy; incapacity; as, he was discharged from his position for inefficiency. 

INEFFICIENTLY:  In an inefficient manner. 

INELABORATE:  Not elaborate; not wrought with care; unpolished; crude; unfinished. 

INELASTIC:  Not elastic. 

INELASTICITY:  Want of elasticity.  INELEGANCE; INELEGANCY In*el"e*gance, In*el"e*gan*cy, n.; pl. Inelegances, Inelegancies. Etym: [L. inelegantia: cf. F. inélégance.]  1. The quality of being inelegant; want of elegance or grace; want of refinement, beauty, or polish in language, composition, or manners. The notorious inelegance of her figure. T. Hook.  2. Anything inelegant; as, inelegance of style in literary composition. 

INELEGANT:  Not elegant; deficient in beauty, polish, refinement, grave, or ornament; wanting in anything which correct taste requires. What order so contrived as not to mix Tastes, not well joined, inelegant. Milton. It renders style often obscure, always embarrassed and inelegant. Blair. 

INELEGANTLY:  In an inelegant manner. 

INELIGIBILITY:  The state or quality of being ineligible. 

INELIGIBLE:  Not eligible; not qualified to be chos Burke. 

INELLIGIBLY:  In an ineligible manner. 

INELOQUENT:  Not eloquent; not fluent, graceful, or pathetic; not persuasive; as, ineloquent language. Nor are thy lips ungraceful, sire of men, Nor tongue ineloquent. Milton. 

INELOQUENTLY:  Without eloquence. 

INELUCTABLE:  Not to be overcome by struggling; irresistible; inevitable. Bp. Pearson. The ineluctable conditions of matter. Hamerton. 

INELUDIBLE:  Incapable of being eluded or evaded; unvoidable. Most pressing reasons and ineludible demonstrations. Glanvill. 

INEMBRYONATE:  Not embryonate. 

INENARRABLE:  Incapable of being narrated; indescribable; ineffable. [Obs.] "Inenarrable goodness." Bp. Fisher. 

INEPTLY:  Unfitly; unsuitably; awkwardly. None of them are made foolishly or ineptly. Dr. H. More. 

INEPTNESS:  Unfitness; ineptitude. The feebleness and miserable ineptness of infancy. Dr. H. More. 

INEQUABLE:  Unequable. [R.] Bailey. 

INEQUAL:  Unequal; uneven; various. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

INEQUALITY:  An expression consisting of two unequal quantities, with the sign of inequality (> or <) between them; as, the inequality 2 < 3, or 4 > 1.  6. (Astron.)  An irregularity, or a deviation, in the motion of a planet or satellite from its uniform mean motion; the amount of such deviation. 

INEQUATION:  An inequality. 

INEQUIDISTANT:  Not equally distant; not equidistant. 

INEQUILATERAL:  Having the two ends unequal, as in the clam, quahaug, and most lamellibranch shells. 

INEQUILOBATE:  Unequally lobed; cut into lobes of different shapes or sizes. 

INEQUITABLE:  Not equitable; not just. Burke. 

INEQUITATE:  To ride over or through. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

INEQUITY:  Want of equity; injustice; wrong. "Some form of inequity." H. Spencer.  INEQUIVALVE; INEQUIVALVULAR In*e"qui*valve, In*e`qui*val"vu*lar, a. (Zoöl.)  Having unequal valves, as the shell of an oyster. 

INERADICABLE:  Incapable of being The bad seed thus sown was ineradicable. Ld. Lytton. 

INERADICABLY:  So as not to be eradicable.  INERGETIC; INERGETICAL In`er*get"ic, In`er*get"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. in- not + energetic, - ical.]  Having no energy; sluggish. [R.] Boyle. 

INERGETICALLY:  Without energy. [R.]  INERM; INERMOUS In*erm", In*er"mous, a. (Bot.)  Same as Inermis. 

INERMIS:  Unarmed; destitute of prickles or thorns, as a leaf. Gray. 

INERRABILITY:  Freedom or exemption from error; infallibility. Eikon Basilike. 

INERRABLE:  Incapable of erring; infallible; unerring. "Inerabble and requisite conditions." Sir T. Browne. "Not an inerrable text." Gladstone. 

INERRABLENESS:  Exemption from error; inerrability; infallibility. Hammond. 

INERRABLY:  With security from error; infallibly; unerringly. 

INERRANCY:  Exemption from error. The absolute inerrancy odf the Bible. The Century. 

INERRATIC:  Not erratic or wandering; fixed; settled; established. 

INERRINGLY:  Without error, mistake, or deviation; unerringly. Glanvill. 

INERTIA:  That property of matter by which it tends when at rest to remain so, and when in motion to continue in motion, and in the same straight line or direction, unless acted on by some external force; - - sometimes called vis inertiæ.  2. Inertness; indisposition to motion, exertion, or action; want of energy; sluggishness. Men . . . have immense irresolution and inertia. Carlyle.  3. (Med.)  Want of activity; sluggishness; -- said especially of the uterus, when, in labor, its contractions have nearly or wholly ceased. Center of inertia. (Mech.) See under Center. 

INERTION:  Want of activity or exertion; inertness; quietude. [R.] These vicissitudes of exertion and inertion of the arterial system constitute the paroxysms of remittent fever. E. Darwin. 

INERTITUDE:  Inertness; inertia. [R.] Good. 

INERTLY:  Without activity; sluggishly. Pope. 

INERUDITE:  Not erudite; unlearned; ignorant. 

INESCAPABLE:  Not escapable. 

INESCATE:  To allure; to lay a bait for. [Obs.] To inescate and beguile young women! Burton. 

INESCATION:  The act of baiting; allurement. [Obs.] Hallywell. 

INESCUTCHEON:  A small escutcheon borne within a shield.  IN ESSE In` es"se. Etym: [L.]  In being; actually existing; -- distinguished from in posse, or in potentia, which denote that a thing is not, but may be. 

INESTIMABLE:  Incapable of being estimated or computed; especially, too valuable or excellent to be measured or fully appreciated; above all price; as, inestimable rights or privileges. But above all, for thine inestimable love. Bk. of Com. Prayer. Science is too inestimable for expression by a money standard. Lyon Playfair.  Syn.  -- Incalculable; invaluable; priceless. 

INESTIMABLY:  In a manner, or to a degree, above estimation; as, things inestimably excellent. 

INEVASIBLE:  Incapable of being 

INEVIDENCE:  Want of evidence; obscurity. [Obs.] Barrow. 

INEVIDENT:  Not evident; not clear or obvious; obscure. 

INEVITABILITY:  Impossibility to be avoided or shunned; inevitableness. Shelford. 

INEVITABLENESS:  The state of being unavoidable; certainty to happen. Prideaux. 

INEVITABLY:  Without possibility of escape or evasion; unavoidably; certainly. Inevitably thou shalt die. Milton. How inevitably does immoderate laughter end in a sigh! South. 

INEXACT:  Not exact; not precisely correct or true; inaccurate. 

INEXACTITUDE:  Inexactness; uncertainty; as, geographical inexactitude. 

INEXACTLY:  In a manner not exact or precise; inaccurately. R. A. Proctor. 

INEXACTNESS:  Incorrectness; want of exactness. 

INEXCITABILITY:  The quality of being inexcitable; insusceptibility to excitement. 

INEXCITABLE:  Not susceptible of excitement; dull; lifeless; torpid. 

INEXCUSABLE:  Not excusable; not admitting excuse or justification; as, inexcusable folly. Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest; for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest doest the same things. Rom. ii. 1. 

INEXCUSABLENESS:  The quality of being inexcusable; enormity forgiveness. South. 

INEXCUSABLY:  With a degree of guilt or folly beyond excuse or justification. Inexcusably obstinate and perverse. Jortin. 

INEXECRABLE:  That can not be execrated enough. [R.] 

INEXECUTABLE:  Incapable of being executed or performed; impracticable; infeasible. 

INEXECUTION:  Neglect of execution; nonperformance; as, the inexecution of a treaty. Spence. 

INEXERTION:  Want of exertion; want of effort; defect of action; indolence; laziness. 

INEXHALABLE:  Incapable of being exhaled. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INEXHAUSTED:  Not exhausted; not emptied; not spent; not having lost all strength or resources; unexhausted. Dryden. 

INEXHAUSTEDLY:  Without exhaustion. 

INEXHAUSTIBILITY:  The state or quality of being inexhaustible; abundance. 

INEXHAUSTIBLE:  Incapable of being exhausted, emptied, or used up; unfailing; not to be wasted or spent; as, inexhaustible stores of provisions; an inexhaustible stock of elegant words. Dryden. An inexhaustible store of anecdotes. Macaulay. -- In`ex*haust"i*ble*ness, n.  -- In`ex*haust"i*bly, adv. 

INEXHAUSTIVE:  Inexhaustible. Thomson. 

INEXIST:  To exist within; to dwell within. [Obs.] Substances inexisting within the divine mind. A. Tucker. 

INEXISTANT:  Inexistent; not existing. [Obs.] Gudworth. 

INEXISTENCE:  Want of being or existence. 

INEXISTENT:  Not having being; not existing. 

INEXISTENT:  Inherent; innate; indwelling. Boyle. 

INEXORABILITY:  The quality of being inexorable, or unyielding to entreaty. Paley. 

INEXORABLE:  Not to be persuaded or moved by entreaty or prayer; firm; determined; unyielding; unchangeable; inflexible; relentless; as, an inexorable prince or tyrant; an inexorable judge. "Inexorable equality of laws." Gibbon. "Death's inexorable doom." Dryden. You are more inhuman, more inexorable, O, ten times more than tigers of Hyrcania. Shak. 

INEXORABLENESS:  The quality or state of being inexorable. Chillingworth. 

INEXORABLY:  In an inexorable manner; inflexibly. "Inexorably firm." Thomson. 

INEXPANSIBLE:  Incapable of expansion, enlargement, or extension. Tyndall. 

INEXPECTABLE:  Not to be expected or anticipated. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

INEXPECTANT:  Not expectant. C. Bronté. 

INEXPECTATION:  Absence of expectation. Feltham. 

INEXPECTED:  Unexpected. [Obs.] 

INEXPECTEDLY:  Unexpectedly. [Obs.] 

INEXPECTEDNESS:  Unexpectedness. [Obs.]  INEXPEDIENCE; INEXPEDIENCY In`ex*pe"di*ence, In`ex*pe"di*en*cy, n.  The quality or state of being inexpedient; want of fitness; unsuitableness to the end or object; impropriety; as, the inexpedience of some measures. It is not the rigor but the inexpediency of laws and acts of authority which makes them tyrannical. Paley. 

INEXPEDIENT:  Not expedient; not tending to promote a purpose; not tending to the end desired; inadvisable; unfit; improper; unsuitable to time and place; as, what is expedient at one time may be inexpedient at another. If it was not unlawful, yet it was highly inexpedient to use those ceremonies. Bp. Burnet.  Syn.  -- Unwise; impolitic; imprudent; indiscreet; unprofitable; inadvisable; disadvantageous. 

INEXPEDIENTLY:  Not 

INEXPENSIVE:  Not expensive; cheap. 

INEXPERIENCE:  Absence or want of experience; lack of personal and experimental knowledge; as, the inexperience of youth. Failings which are incident to youth and inexperience. Dryden. Prejudice and self-sufficiency naturally proceed from inexperience of the world, and ignorance of mankind. Addison. 

INEXPERIENCED:  Not having experience unskilled. "Inexperienced youth." Cowper. 

INEXPERTNESS:  Want of expertness or skill. 

INEXPIABLENESS:  Quality of being inexpiable. 

INEXPIABLY:  In an inexpiable manner of degree; to a degree that admits of no atonement. 

INEXPIATE:  Not appeased or placated. [Obs.] To rest inexpiate were much too rude a part. Chapman. 

INEXPLAINABLE:  Incapable of being explained; inexplicable. 

INEXPLEABLY:  Insatiably. [Obs.] Sandys. 

INEXPLICABILITY:  The quality or state of being inexplicable. H. Spencer. 

INEXPLICABLE:  Not explicable; not explainable; incapable of being explained, interpreted, or accounted for; as, an inexplicable mystery. "An inexplicable scratching." Cowper. Their reason is disturbed; their views become vast and perplexed, to others inexplicable, to themselves uncertain. Burke. 

INEXPLICABLENESS:  A state of being inexplicable; inexplicability. 

INEXPLICABLY:  In an inexplicable manner. 

INEXPLICIT:  Not explicit; not clearly stated; indefinite; vague. 

INEXPLORABLE:  Incapable of being explored, searched out, or discovered. Sir G. Buck. 

INEXPLOSIVE:  Not explosive. 

INEXPOSURE:  A state of not being exposed. 

INEXPRESSIBLE:  Not capable of expression or utterance in language; ineffable; unspeakable; indescribable; unutterable; as, inexpressible grief or pleasure. "Inexpressible grandeur." Blair. In orbs Of circuit inexpressible they stood. Milton. 

INEXPRESSIBLES:  Breeches; trousers. [Colloq. or Slang] Ld. Lytton. 

INEXPRESSIBLY:  In an inexpressible manner or degree; unspeakably; unutterably. Spectator. 

INEXPRESSIVENESS:  The state or quality of being inexpressive. 

INEXPUGNABLE:  Incapable of being subdued by force; impregnable; unconquerable. Burke. A fortress, inexpugnable by the arts of war. Milman. 

INEXPUGNABLY:  So as to be inexpugnable; in an inexpugnable manner. Dr. H. More. 

INEXSUPERABLE:  Not capable of being passed over; insuperable; insurmountable. 

INEXTENDED:  Not extended. 

INEXTENSIBLE:  Not capable of being extended; not elastic; as, inextensible fibers. 

INEXTENSION:  Want of extension; unextended state. 

INEXTERMINABLE:  Incapable of extermination. Rush. 

INEXTINCT:  Not quenched; not extinct. 

INEXTINGUIBLE:  Inextinguishable. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

INEXTINGUISHABLE:  Not capable of being extinguished; extinguishable; unquenchable; as, inextinguishable flame, light, thirst, desire, feuds. "Inextinguishable rage." Milton. 

INEXTINGUISHABLY:  So as not to be extinguished; in an inextinguishable manner. 

INEXTIRPABLE:  Not capable of being extirpated or rooted out; ineradicable. 

INEXTRICABLENESS:  The state of being inextricable. 

INEXTRICABLY:  In an inextricable manner. 

INEYE:  To ingraft, as a tree or plant, by the insertion of a bud or eye; to inoculate. The arts of grafting and ineying. J. Philips. 

INFABRICATED:  Not fabricated; unwrought; not artificial; natural. [Obs.] 

INFALLIBILIST:  One who accepts or maintains the dogma of papal infallibility. 

INFALLIBILITY:  The quality or state of being infallible, or exempt from error; inerrability. Infallibility is the highest perfection of the knowing faculty. Tillotson. Papal infallibility (R. C. Ch.), the dogma that the pope can not, when acting in his official character of supreme pontiff, err in defining a doctrine of Christian faith or rule of morals, to be held by the church. This was decreed by the Ecumenical Council at the Vatican, July 18, 1870. 

INFALLIBLE:  Incapable of error in defining doctrines touching faith or morals. See Papal infallibility, under Infallibility. 

INFALLIBLENESS:  The state or quality of being infallible; infallibility. Bp. Hall. 

INFALLIBLY:  In an infallible manner; certainly; unfailingly; unerringly. Blair. 

INFAME:  To defame; to make infamous. [Obs.] Milton. Livia is infamed for the poisoning of her husband. Bacon. 

INFAMIZE:  To make infamous; to defame. [R.] Coleridge. 

INFAMOUS:  Branded with infamy by conviction of a crime; as, at common law, an infamous person can not be a witness.  4. Having a bad name as being the place where an odious crime was committed, or as being associated with something detestable; hence, unlucky; perilous; dangerous. "Infamous woods." P. Fletcher. Infamous hills, and sandy perilous wilds. Milton. The piny shade More infamous by cursed Lycaon made. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Detestable; odious; scandalous; disgraceful; base; vile; shameful; ignominious. 

INFAMOUSLY:  In an infamous manner or degree; scandalously; disgracefully; shamefully. The sealed fountain of royal bounty which had been infamously monopolized and huckstered. Burke. 

INFAMOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being infamous; infamy. 

INFAMY:  That loss of character, or public disgrace, which a convict incurs, and by which he is at common law rendered incompetent as a witness. 

INFANCY:  The state or condition of one under age, or under the age of twenty-one years; nonage; minority. 

INFANDOUS:  Too odious to be expressed or mentioned. [Obs.] Howell. 

INFANGTHEF:  The privilege granted to lords of certain manors to judge thieves taken within the seigniory of such lords. Cowell. 

INFANT:  A person who is not of full age, or who has not attained the age of legal capacity; a person under the age of twenty-one years; a minor.  Note: An infant under seven years of age is not penally responsible; between seven and fourteen years of age, he may be convicted of a malicious offense if malice be proved. He becomes of age on the day preceding his twenty-first birthday, previous to which time an infant has no capacity to contract.  3. Same as Infante. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INFANT:  To bear or bring forth, as a child; hence, to produce, in general. [Obs.] This worthy motto, "No bishop, no king," is . . . infanted out of the same fears. Milton. 

INFANTA:  A title borne by every one of the daughters of the kings of Spain and Portugal, except the eldest. 

INFANTE:  A title given to every one of sons of the kings of Spain and Portugal, except the eldest or heir apparent. 

INFANTHOOD:  Infancy. [R.] 

INFANTICIDAL:  Of or pertaining to infanticide; engaged in, or guilty of, child murder. 

INFANTICIDE:  The murder of an infant born alive; the murder or killing of a newly born or young child; child murder. 

INFANTICIDE:  One who commits the crime of infanticide; one who kills an infant. 

INFANTILE:  Of or pertaining to infancy, or to an infant; similar to, or characteristic of, an infant; childish; as, infantile behavior.  INFANTILE PARALYSIS In"fan*tile pa*ral"y*sis. (Med.)  An acute disease, almost exclusively infantile, characterized by inflammation of the anterior horns of the gray substance of the spinal cord. It is attended with febrile symptoms, motor paralysis, and muscular atrophy, often producing permanent deformities. Called also acute anterior poliomyelitis. 

INFANTINE:  Infantile; childish. A degree of credulity next infantine. Burke. 

INFANTLIKE:  Like an infant. Shak. 

INFANTLY:  Like an infant. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

INFANTRY:  A body of soldiers serving on foot; foot soldiers, in distinction from cavalry. 

INFARCE:  To stuff; to swell. [Obs.] The body is infarced with . . . watery humors. Sir T. Elyot. 

INFARCTION:  The act of stuffing or filling; an overloading and obstruction of any organ or vessel of the body; constipation. 

INFARE:  A house-warming; especially, a reception, party, or entertainment given by a newly married couple, or by the husband upon receiving the wife to his house. [Written also infair.] [Scot., & Local, U. S.] 

INFASHIONABLE:  Unfashionable. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

INFATIGABLE:  Indefatigable. [Obs.] Daniel. 

INFATUATE:  Infatuated. Bp. Hall. 

INFATUATED:  Overcome by some foolish passion or desire; affected by infatuation. 

INFATUATION:  The act of infatuating; the state of being infatuated; folly; that which infatuates. The infatuations of the sensual and frivolous part of mankind are amazing; but the infatuations of the learned and sophistical are incomparably more so. I. Taylor. Such is the infatuation of self-love. Blair. 

INFAUST:  Not favorable; unlucky; unpropitious; sinister. [R.] Ld. Lytton. 

INFAUSTING:  The act of making unlucky; misfortune; bad luck. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INFEASIBILITY:  The state of being infeasible; impracticability. 

INFEASIBLE:  Not capable of being done or accomplished; impracticable. Glanvill. 

INFEASIBLENESS:  The state of quality of being infeasible; infeasibility. W. Montagu. 

INFECT:  Infected. Cf. Enfect. [Obs.] Shak. 

INFECT:  To contaminate with illegality or to expo  Syn.  -- To poison; vitiate; pollute; defile. 

INFECTER:  One who, or that which, infects. 

INFECTIBLE:  Capable of being infected. 

INFECTION:  Contamination by illegality, as in cases of contraband goods; implication.  6. Sympathetic communication of like qualities or emotions; influence. Through all her train the soft infection ran. Pope. Mankind are gay or serious by infection. Rambler.  Syn.  -- Infection, Contagion.  -- Infection is often used in a definite and limited sense of the transmission of affections without direct contact of individuals or immediate application or introduction of the morbific agent, in contradistinction to contagion, which then implies transmission by direct contact. Quain. See Contagious. 

INFECTIOUS:  Contaminating with illegality; exposing to seizure and forfeiture. Contraband articles are said to be of an infectious nature. Kent.  4. Capable of being easily diffused or spread; sympathetic; readily communicated; as, infectious mirth. The laughter was so genuine as to be infectious. W. Black.  Syn.  -- See Contagious.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE In*fec"tious dis*ease".  (a) Any disease caused by the entrance, growth, and multiplication of bacteria or protozoans in the body; a germ disease. It may not be contagious.  (b) Sometimes, as distinguished from contagious disease, such a disease communicated by germs carried in the air or water, and thus spread without contact with the patient, as measles. 

INFECTIOUSLY:  In an infectious manner. Shak. 

INFECTIOUSNESS:  The quality of being infectious. 

INFECTIVE:  Infectious. Beau. & Fl. True love . . . hath an infective power. Sir P. Sidney. 

INFECUND:  Unfruitful; not producing young; barren; infertile. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

INFECUNDITY:  Want of fecundity or fruitfulness; barrenness; sterility; unproductiveness. 

INFECUNDOUS:  Infertile; barren; unprofitable; unproductive. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

INFEEBLE:  See Enfeeble. 

INFELICITOUS:  Not felicitous; unhappy; unfortunate; not fortunate or appropriate in application; not well said, expressed, or done; as, an infelicitous condition; an infelicitous remark; an infelicitous description; infelicitous words. 

INFELONIOUS:  Not felonious, malignant, or criminal. G. Eliot. 

INFELT:  Felt inwardly; heartfelt. [R.] The baron stood afar off, or knelt in submissive, acknowledged, infelt inferiority. Milman. 

INFEODATION:  See Infeudation. 

INFEOFF:  See Enfeoff. 

INFEOFFMENT:  See Enfeoffment. 

INFERABLE:  Capable of being inferred or deduced from premises. [Written also inferrible.] H. Spencer. A sufficient argument . . . is inferable from these premises. Burke. 

INFERENTIAL:  Deduced or deducible by inference. "Inferential proofs." J. S. Mill. 

INFERENTIALLY:  By way of inference. 

INFERIAE:  Sacrifices offered to the souls of deceased heroes or friends. 

INFERIOR:  Junior or subordinate in rank; as, an inferior officer. Inferior court (Law), a court subject to the jurisdiction of another court known as the superior, or higher, court.  -- Inferior letter, Inferior figure (Print.), a small letter or figure standing at the bottom of the line (opposed to superior letter or figure), as in A2, Bn, 2 and n are inferior characters.  -- Inferior tide, the tide corresponding to the moon's transit of the meridian, when below the horizon. 

INFERIOR:  A person lower in station, rank, intellect, etc., than another. A great person gets more by obliging his inferior than by disdaining him. South. 

INFERIORITY:  The state of being inferior; a lower state or condition; as, inferiority of rank, of talents, of age, of worth. A deep sense of our own great inferiority. Boyle. 

INFERIORLY:  In an inferior manner, or on the inferior part. 

INFERNAL:  An inhabitant of the infernal regions; also, the place itself. [Obs.] Drayton. 

INFERNALLY:  In an infernal manner; diabolically. "Infernally false." Bp. Hacket. 

INFERNO:  The infernal regions; hell. Also used fig.  At each sudden explosion in the inferno below they sprang back from the brink [of the volcanic crater]. D. C. Worcester. 

INFEROBRANCHIAN:  One of the Inferobranchiata. 

INFEROBRANCHIATA:  A suborder of marine gastropod mollusks, in which the gills are between the foot and the mantle. 

INFEROBRANCHIATE:  Having the gills on the sides of the body, under the margin of the mantle; belonging to the Inferobranchiata. 

INFERRIBLE:  Inferable. 

INFERTILE:  Not fertile; not productive; barren; sterile; as, an infertile soil. 

INFERTILELY:  In an infertile manner. 

INFERTILITY:  The state or quality of being infertile; unproductiveness; barrenness. The infertility or noxiousness of the soil. Sir M. Hale. 

INFEST:  Mischievous; hurtful; harassing. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INFEST:  To trouble greatly by numbers or by frequency of presence; to disturb; to annoy; to frequent and molest or harass; as, fleas infest dogs and cats; a sea infested with pirates. To poison vermin that infest his plants. Cowper. These, said the genius, are envy, avarice, superstition, love, with the like cares and passions that infest human life. Addison. And the cares, that infest the day, Shall fold their tents, like the Arabs, And as silently steal away. Longfellow. 

INFESTATION:  The act of infesting or state of being infested; molestation; vexation; annoyance. Bacon. Free from the infestation of enemies. Donne. 

INFESTER:  One who, or that which, infests. 

INFESTIVE:  Having no mirth; not festive or merry; dull; cheerless; gloomy; forlorn. [R.] 

INFESTIVITY:  Want of festivity, cheerfulness, or mirth; dullness; cheerlessness. [R.] 

INFESTUOUS:  Mischievous; harmful; dangerous. [Obs.] "Infestuous as serpents." Bacon. 

INFEUDATION:  The act of putting one in possession of an estate in fee. Sir M. Hale.  2. The granting of tithes to laymen. Blackstone. 

INFIDEL:  Not holding the faith; -- applied esp. to one who does not believe in the inspiration of the Scriptures, and the supernatural origin of Christianity. The infidel writer is a great enemy to society. V. Knox. 

INFIDEL:  One who does not believe in the prevailing religious faith; especially, one who does not believe in the divine origin and authority of Christianity; a Mohammedan; a heathen; a freethinker.  Note: Infidel is used by English writers to translate the equivalent word used Mohammedans in speaking of Christians and other disbelievers in Mohammedanism.  Syn.  -- Infidel, Unbeliever, Freethinker, Deist, Atheist, Sceptic, Agnostic. An infidel, in common usage, is one who denies Christianity and the truth of the Scriptures. Some have endeavored to widen the sense of infidel so as to embrace atheism and every form of unbelief; but this use does not generally prevail. A freethinker is now only another name for an infidel. An unbeliever is not necessarily a disbeliever or infidel, because he may still be inquiring after evidence to satisfy his mind; the word, however, is more commonly used in the extreme sense. A deist believes in one God and a divine providence, but rejects revelation. An atheist denies the being of God. A sceptic is one whose faith in the credibility of evidence is weakened or destroyed, so that religion, to the same extent, has no practical hold on his mind. An agnostic remains in a state of suspended judgment, neither affirming nor denying the existence of a personal Deity. 

INFIELD:  To inclose, as a field. [R.] 

INFIELD:  The diamond; -- opposed to outfield. See Diamond, n., 5. 

INFILE:  To arrange in a file or rank; to place in order. [Obs.] Holland. 

INFILM:  To cover with a film; to coat thinly; as, to infilm one metal with another in the process of gilding; to infilm the glass of a mirror. [R.] 

INFILTER:  To filter or sift in. 

INFILTRATE:  To enter by penetrating the pores or interstices of a substance; to filter into or through something. The water infiltrates through the porous rock. Addison. 

INFILTRATE:  To penetrate gradually; -- sometimes used reflexively. J. S. Mill. 

INFILTRATIVE:  Of or pertaining to infiltration. Kane. 

INFINITE:  Greater than any assignable quantity of the same kind; -- said of certain quantities.  5. (Mus.)  Capable of endless repetition; -- said of certain forms of the canon, called also perpetual fugues, so constructed that their ends lead to their beginnings, and the performance may be incessantly repeated. Moore (Encyc. of Music).  Syn.  -- Boundless; immeasurable; illimitable; interminable; limitless; unlimited; endless; eternal. 

INFINITE:  An infinite quantity or magnitude.  3. An infinity; an incalculable or very great number. Glittering chains, embroidered richly o'er With infinite of pearls and finest gold. Fanshawe.  4. The Infinite Being; God; the Almighty. 

INFINITENESS:  The state or quality of being infinite; infinity; greatness; immensity. Jer. Taylor. 

INFINITESIMAL:  Infinitely or indefinitely small; less than any assignable quantity or value; very small. Infinitesimal calculus, the different and the integral calculus, when developed according to the method used by Leibnitz, who regarded the increments given to variables as infinitesimal. 

INFINITESIMAL:  An infinitely small quantity; that which is less than any assignable quantity. 

INFINITESIMALLY:  By infinitesimals; in infinitely small quantities; in an infinitesimal degree. 

INFINITIVAL:  Pertaining to the infinite mood. "Infinitival stems." Fitzed. Hall. 

INFINITIVE:  Unlimited; not bounded or restricted; undefined. Infinitive mood (Gram.), that form of the verb which merely names the action, and performs the office of a verbal noun. Some grammarians make two forms in English: (a) The simple form, as, speak, go, hear, before which to is commonly placed, as, to speak; to go; to hear. (b) The form of the imperfect participle, called the infinitive in -ing; as, going is as easy as standing.  Note: With the auxiliary verbs may, can, must, might, could, would, and should, the simple infinitive is expressed without to; as, you may speak; they must hear, etc. The infinitive usually omits to with the verbs let, dare, do, bid, make, see, hear, need, etc.; as, let me go; you dare not tell; make him work; hear him talk, etc.  Note: In Anglo-Saxon, the simple infinitive was not preceded by to (the sign of modern simple infinitive), but it had a dative form (sometimes called the gerundial infinitive) which was preceded by to, and was chiefly employed in expressing purpose. See Gerund, 2.  Note: The gerundial ending (-anne) not only took the same form as the simple infinitive (-an), but it was confounded with the present participle in -ende, or -inde (later -inge). 

INFINITIVE:  An infinitive form of the verb; a verb in the infinitive mood; the infinitive mood. 

INFINITIVE:  In the manner of an infinitive mood. 

INFINITO:  Infinite; perpetual, as a canon whose end leads back to the beginning. See Infinite, a., 5. 

INFINITUPLE:  Multipied an infinite number of times. [R.] Wollaston. 

INFINITY:  A quantity greater than any assignable quantity of the same kind.  Note: Mathematically considered, infinity is always a limit of a variable quantity, resulting from a particular supposition made upon the varying element which enters it. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ).  5. (Geom.)  That part of a line, or of a plane, or of space, which is infinitely distant. In modern geometry, parallel lines or planes are sometimes treated as lines or planes meeting at infinity. Circle at infinity, an imaginary circle at infinity, through which, in geometry of three dimensions, every sphere is imagined to pass.  -- Circular points at infinity. See under Circular. 

INFIRM:  To weaken; to enfeeble. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

INFIRMARIAN:  A person dwelling in, or having charge of, an infirmary, esp. in a monastic institution. 

INFIRMARY:  A hospital, or place where the infirm or sick are lodged and nursed gratuitously, or where out-patients are treated. 

INFIRMATIVE:  Weakening; annulling, or tending to make void. [Obs.] 

INFIRMATORY:  An infirmary. [Obs.] 

INFIRMLY:  In an infirm manner. 

INFIRMNESS:  Infirmity; feebleness. Boyle. 

INFIX:  Something infixed. [R.] Welsford. 

INFLAME:  To put in a state of inflammation; to produce morbid heat, congestion, or swelling, of; as, to inflame the eyes by overwork.  5. To exaggerate; to enlarge upon. [Obs.] A friend exaggerates a man's virtues, an enemy inflames his crimes. Addison.  Syn.  -- To provoke; fire; kindle; irritate; exasperate; incense; enrage; anger; excite; arouse. 

INFLAME:  To grow morbidly hot, congested, or painful; to become angry or incensed. Wiseman. 

INFLAMED:  Represented as burning, or as adorned with tongues of flame. 

INFLAMER:  The person or thing that inflames. Addison. 

INFLAMMABILLTY:  Susceptibility of taking fire readily; the state or quality of being inflammable. 

INFLAMMABLENESS:  The quality or state of being inflammable; inflammability. Boyle. 

INFLAMMABLY:  In an inflammable manner. 

INFLAMMATION:  A morbid condition of any part of the body, consisting in congestion of the blood vessels, with obstruction of the blood current, and growth of morbid tissue. It is manifested outwardly by redness and swelling, attended with heat and pain.  3. Violent excitement; heat; passion; animosity; turbulence; as, an inflammation of the mind, of the body politic, or of parties. Hooker. 

INFLAMMATIVE:  Inflammatory. 

INFLAMMATORY:  Accompanied with, or tending to cause, preternatural heat and excitement of arterial action; as, an inflammatory disease. Inflammatory crust. (Med.) Same as Buffy coat, under Buffy.  -- Inflammatory fever, a variety of fever due to inflammation. 

INFLATABLE:  That may be inflated. 

INFLATE:  Blown in; inflated. Chaucer. 

INFLATE:  To expand; to fill; to distend. 

INFLATED:  Hollow and distended, as a perianth, corolla, nectary, or pericarp. Martyn.  4. Distended or enlarged fictitiously; as, inflated prices, etc. 

INFLATER:  One who, or that which, inflates; as, the inflaters of the stock exchange. 

INFLATINGLY:  In a manner tending to inflate. 

INFLATIONIST:  One who favors an increased or very large issue of paper money. [U.S.] 

INFLATUS:  A blowing or breathing into; inflation; inspiration. The divine breath that blows the nostrils out To ineffable inflatus. Mrs. Browning. 

INFLECT:  To vary, as a noun or a verb in its terminations; to decline, as a noun or adjective, or to conjugate, as a verb.  3. To modulate, as the voice. 

INFLECTED:  Having inflections; capable of, or subject to, inflection; inflective. Inflected cycloid (Geom.), a prolate cycloid. See Cycloid. 

INFLECTION:  The variation or change which words undergo to mark case, gender, number, comparison, tense, person, mood, voice, etc.  5. (Mus.) (a) Any change or modification in the pitch or tone of the voice. (b) A departure from the monotone, or reciting note, in chanting.  6. (Opt.)  Same as Diffraction. Point of inflection (Geom.), the point on opposite sides of which a curve bends in contrary ways. 

INFLECTIONAL:  Of or pertaining to inflection; having, or characterized by, inflection. Max Müller. 

INFLECTIVE:  Inflectional; characterized by variation, or change in form, to mark case, tense, etc.; subject to inflection. Inflective language (Philol.), a language like the Greek or Latin, consisting largely of stems with variable terminations or suffixes which were once independent words. English is both agglutinative, as, manlike, headache, and inflective, as, he, his, him. Cf. Agglutinative. 

INFLESH:  To incarnate. 

INFLEX:  To bend; to cause to become curved; to make crooked; to deflect. J. Philips. 

INFLEXED:  Bent or turned abruptly inwards, or toward the axis, as the petals of a flower. 

INFLEXIBILITY:  The quality or state of being inflexible, or not capable of being bent or changed; unyielding stiffness; inflexibleness; rigidity; firmness of will or purpose; unbending pertinacity; steadfastness; resoluteness; unchangeableness; obstinacy. The inflexibility of mechanism. A. Baxter. That grave inflexibility of soul. Churchill. The purity and inflexibility of their faith. T. Warton. 

INFLEXIBLENESS:  The quality or state of being inflexible; inflexibility; rigidity; firmness. 

INFLEXIBLY:  In an inflexible manner. 

INFLEXION:  Inflection. 

INFLEXURE:  An inflection; a bend or fold. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

INFLICT:  To give, cause, or produce by striking, or as if by striking; to apply forcibly; to lay or impose; to send; to cause to bear, feel, or suffer; as, to inflict blows; to inflict a wound with a dagger; to inflict severe pain by ingratitude; to inflict punishment on an offender; to inflict the penalty of death on a criminal. What heart could wish, what hand inflict, this dire disgrace Drygen. The persecution and the pain That man inflicts on infero-ior kinds. Cowper. 

INFLICTER:  One who inflicts. Godis the sole and immadiate inflicter of such strokes. South. 

INFLICTIVE:  Causing infliction; acting as an infliction. Whitehead. 

INFLOW:  To flow in. Wiseman. 

INFLUENCE:  Induction.  Syn.  -- Control; persuasion; ascendency; sway; power; authority; supremacy; mastery; management; restraint; character; reputation; prestige. 

INFLUENCE:  To control or move by power, physical or moral; to affect by gentle action; to exert an influence upon; to modify, bias, or sway; to move; to persuade; to induce. Theseexperiments succeed after the same manner in vacuo as in the open air,and therefore are not influenced by the weight or pressure of the atmosphere. Sir I. Newton. This standing revelation . . . is sufficient to influence their faith and practice, if they attend. Attebury. The principle which influenced their obedience has lost its efficacy. Rogers. 

INFLUENCER:  One who, or that which, influences. 

INFLUENCIVE:  Tending toinfluence; influential. 

INFLUENTIAL:  Exerting or possessing influence or power; potent; efficacious; effective; strong; having authority or ascendency; as, an influential man, station, argument, etc. A very influential Gascon prefix. Earle. 

INFLUENTIALLY:  In an influential manner. 

INFLUENZA:  An epidemic affection characterized by acute nasal catarrh, or by inflammation of the throat or the bronchi, and usually accompanied by fever. 

INFLUXION:  A flowing in; infusion. [R.] Bacon. 

INFLUXIOUS:  Influential. [Obs.] 

INFLUXIVE:  Having a tendency to flow in; having influence; influential. [R.] Holdsworth. 

INFLUXIVELY:  By influxion. [R.] 

INFOLDMENT:  The act of infolding; the state of being infolded. 

INFOLIATE:  To cover or overspread with, or as with, leaves. [R.] Howell. 

INFORM:  Without regular form; shapeless; ugly; deformed. Cotton. 

INFORMALLY:  In an informal manner. 

INFORMATION:  A proceeding in the nature of a prosecution for some offens against the government, instituted and prosecuted, really or nominally, by some authorized public officer on behalt of the government. It differs from an indictment in criminal cases chiefly in not being based on the finding of a grand juri. See Indictment. 

INFORMATIVE:  Having power to inform, animate, or vivify. Dr. H. More. 

INFORMATORY:  Full of, or conveying, information; instructive. [R.] London Spectator. 

INFORMED:  Unformed or ill-formed; deformed; shapeless. [Obs.] Spenser. Informed stars. See under Unformed. 

INFORMER:  One who informs a magistrate of violations of law; one who informs against another for violation of some law or penal statute. Common informer (Law), one who habitually gives information of the violation of penal statutes, with a view to a prosecution therefor. Bouvier. Wharton. 

INFORMIDABLE:  Not formidable; not to be feared or dreaded. [Obs.] "Foe not informidable." Milton. 

INFORMITY:  Want of regular form; shapelessness. [Obs.] 

INFORMOUS:  Of irregular form; shapeless. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INFORTUNATE:  Unlucky; unfortunate. [Obs.] Shak. "A most infortynate chance." Howell. - In*for"tu*nate*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

INFORTUNE:  Misfortune. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

INFORTUNED:  Unfortunate. [Obs.] I, woeful wretch and infortuned wight. Chaucer. 

INFOUND:  To pour in; to infuse. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

INFRA:  Below; beneath; under; after; -- often used as a prefix.  INFRA-AXILLARY In`fra-ax"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [Infra + axillary.] (Bot.)  Situated below the axil, as a bud. 

INFRABRANCHIAL:  Below the gills; -- applied to the ventral portion of the pallial chamber in the lamellibranchs. 

INFRACLAVICULAR:  Below the clavicle; as, the infraclavicular fossa. 

INFRACT:  Not broken or fractured; unharmed; whole. [Obs.] Chapman. 

INFRACT:  To break; to infringe. [R.] Thomson. 

INFRACTIBLE:  Capable of being broken.[R.] 

INFRACTION:  The act of infracting or breaking; breach; violation; nonobservance; infringement; as, an infraction of a treaty, compact, rule, or law. I. Watts. 

INFRACTOR:  One who infracts or infringes; a violator; a breaker. 

INFRAGRANT:  Not fragrant. 

INFRAHYOID:  Same as Hyosternal (a). 

INFRALABIAL:  Below the lower lip; -- said of certain scales of reptiles and fishes. 

INFRALAPSARIAN:  One of that class of Calvinists who consider the decree of election as contemplating the apostasy as past and the elect as being at the time of election in a fallen and guilty state; -- opposed to Supralapsarian. The former considered the election of grace as a remedy for an existing evil; the latter regarded the fall as a part of God's original purpose in regard to men. 

INFRALAPSARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Infralapsarians, or to their doctrine. 

INFRALAPSARIANISM:  The doctrine, belief, or principles of the Inralapsarians. 

INFRAMARGINAL:  Below the margin; submarginal; as, an inframarginal convolution of the brain. 

INFRAMEDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the interval or zone along the sea bottom, at the depth of between fifty and one hundred fathoms. E. Forbes. 

INFRAMUNDANE:  Lying or situated beneath the world. 

INFRANCHISE:  See Enfranchise. 

INFRANGIBILITY:  The quality or state of being infrangible; infrangibleness. 

INFRANGIBLENESS:  The state or quality of being infrangible; infrangibility. 

INFRAOCULAR:  Situated below the eyes, as the antenna of certain insects. 

INFRAORBITAL:  Below the orbit; as, the infraorbital foramen; the infraorbital nerve. 

INFRAPOSE:  To place under or beneath. [R.] 

INFRAPOSITION:  A situation or position beneath. Kane.  INFRA-RED In`fra-red", a.  [Infra- + red.] (Physics)  Lying outside the visible spectrum at its red end; -- said of rays less refrangible than the extreme red rays. 

INFRASCAPULAR:  Beneath the scapula, or shoulder blade; subscapular. 

INFRASPINAL:  Below the spine; infraspinal; esp., below the spine of the scapula; as, the infraspinous fossa; the infraspinate muscle. 

INFRASTAPEDIAL:  Of or pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, which in many animals projects below the connection with the stapes.  -- n.  The infrastapedial part of the columella. 

INFRASTERNAL:  Below the sternum; as, the infrasternal depression, or pit of the stomach. 

INFRATEMPORAL:  Below the temple; below the temporal bone. 

INFRATERRITORIAL:  Within the territory of a state. Story. 

INFRATROCHLEAR:  Below a trochlea, or pulley; -- applied esp. to one of the subdivisions of the trigeminal nerve.  INFREQUENCE; INFREQUENCY In*fre"quence, In*fre"quen*cy, n. Etym: [L. infrequentia scantiness : cf. F. infrequence.]  1. The state of rarely occuring; uncommonness; rareness; as, the infrquence of his visits.  2. The state of not being frequented; solitude; isolation; retirement; seclusion. [R.] The solitude and infrequency of the place. Bp. Hall. 

INFREQUENT:  Seldom happening or occurring; rare; uncommon; unusual. The act whereof is at this day infrequent or out of use among all sorts of men. Sir T. Elyot. 

INFREQUENTLY:  Not frequently; rarely. 

INFRIGIDATE:  To chill; to make cold; to cool. [Obs.] Boyle. 

INFRIGIDATION:  The act of chilling or causing to become cold; a chilling; coldness; congelation. [Obs.] Boyle. 

INFRINGER:  One who infringes or violates; a violator. Strype. 

INFRUCTUOSE:  Not producing fruit; unfruitful; unprofitable. [R.] T. Adams. 

INFRUGAL:  Not frugal; wasteful; as, an infrugal expense of time. J. Goodman. 

INFRUGIFEROUS:  Not bearing fruit; not fructiferous. 

INFUCATE:  To stain; to paint; to daub. 

INFUCATION:  The act of painting or staining, especially of painting the face. 

INFULA:  A sort of fillet worn by dignitaries, priests, and others among the ancient Romans. It was generally white. 

INFUMATE:  To dry by exposing to smoke; to expose to smoke. 

INFUMATED:  Clouded; having a cloudy appearance. 

INFUMATION:  Act of drying in smoke. 

INFUMED:  Dried in smoke; smoked.  INFUNDIBULAR; INFUNDIBULATE In`fun*dib"u*lar, In`fun*dib"u*late, a. Etym: [See Infundibulum.]  Having the form of a funnel; pertaining to an infundibulum. Infundibulate Bryozoa (Zoöl.),a group of marine Bryozoa having a circular arrangement of the tentacles upon the disk. 

INFUNDIBULIFORM:  Same as Funnelform. 

INFUNDIBULUM:  A funnel-shaped or dilated organ or part; as, the infundibulum of the brain, a hollow, conical process, connecting the floor of the third ventricle with the pituitary body; the infundibula of the lungs, the enlarged terminations of the bronchial tubes.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) A central cavity in the Ctenophora, into which the gastric sac leads. (b) The siphon of Cephalopoda. See Cephalopoda. 

INFUNERAL:  To inter with funeral rites; to bury. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 

INFURCATION:  A forked exlpansion or divergence; a bifurcation; a branching. Craig. 

INFURIATE:  Enraged; rading; furiously angry; infuriated. Milton. Inflamed beyond the most infuriate wrath. Thomson. 

INFURIATE:  To render furious; to enrage; to exasperate. Those curls of entangled snakes with which Erinys is said to have infuriated Athemas and Ino. Dr. H. More. 

INFURIATED:  Enraged; furious. 

INFUSCATE:  To darken; to make black; to obscure. 

INFUSCATED:  Darkened with a blackish tinge. 

INFUSCATION:  The act of darkening, or state of being dark; darkness; obscurity. Johnson. 

INFUSE:  Infusion. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INFUSER:  One who, or that which, infuses. 

INFUSIBILITY:  Capability of being infused, pouredin, or instilled. 

INFUSIBILITY:  Incapability or difficulty of being fused, melted, or dissolved; as, the infusibility of carbon. 

INFUSIBLE:  Capable of being infused. Doctrines being infusible into all. Hammond. 

INFUSIBLE:  Not fusible; incapble or difficalt of fusion, or of being dissolved or melted. Sir T. Browne. The best crucibles are made of Limoges earth, which seems absolutely infusible. Lavoisier (Trans. ). 

INFUSIBLENESS:  Infusibility. 

INFUSIONISM:  The doctrine that the soul is preexistent to the body, and is infused into it at conception or birth; -- opposed to tradicianism and creationism. 

INFUSIVE:  Having the power of infusion; inspiring; influencing. The infusive force of Spirit on man. Thomson. 

INFUSORIA:  One of the classes of Protozoa, including a large number of species, all of minute size.  Note: They are found in all seas, lakes, ponds, and streams, as well as in infusions of organic matter exposed to the air. They are distinguished by having vibrating lashes or cilia, with which they obtain their food and swim about.They are devided into the orders Flagellata, Ciliata, and Tentaculifera. See these words in the Vocabulary. Formely the term Infusoria was applied to all microscopic organisms found in water, including many minute plants, belonging to the diatoms, as well as minute animals belonging to various classes, as the Rotifera, which are worms; and the Rhizopoda, which constitute a distinct class of Protozoa. Fossil Infusoria are mostly the siliceous shells of diatoms; sometimes they are siliceous skeletons of Radiolaria, or the calcareous shells of Foraminifera. 

INFUSORIAL:  Belonging to the Infusoria; composed of, or containing, Infusoria; as, infusorial earth. Infusorial earth (Geol.), a deposit of fine, usually white, siliceous material, composed mainly of the shells of the microscopic plants called diatoms. It is used in polishing powder, and in the manufacture of dynamite. 

INFUSORIAN:  One of the Infusoria. 

INFUSORY:  Infusorial. 

INFUSORY:  One of the Infusoria; -- usually in the pl.  -ING -ing.  1. Etym: [For OE. -and, -end, -ind, AS. -ende; akin to Goth. -and-, L. -ant-, -ent-, Gr.  A suffix used to from present participles; as, singing, playing.  2. Etym: [OE. -ing, AS. -ing, -ung.]  A suffix used to form nouns from verbs, and signifying the act of; the result of the act; as, riding, dying, feeling. It has also a secondary collective force; as, shipping, clothing.  Note: The Old English ending of the present participle and verbal noun became confused, both becoming -ing.  3. Etym: [AS. -ing.]  A suffix formerly used to form diminutives; as, lording, farthing. 

ING:  A pasture or meadow; generally one lying low, near a river. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

INGANNATION:  Cheat; deception. [Obs.] Sir T. Brown. 

INGATE:  The aperture in a mold for pouring in the metal; the gate. Simmonds. 

INGATHERING:  The act or business of gathering or collecting anything; especially, the gathering of the fruits of the earth; harvest. Thou shalt keep . . . the feast of ingathering. Ex. xxii. 16. 

INGELABLE:  Not congealable. 

INGEMINATE:  Redoubled; repeated. Jer. Taylor. 

INGEMINATE:  To redouble or repeat; to reiterate. Clarendon. . . . She yet ingeminates The last of sounds, and what she hears relates. Sandys. 

INGEMINATION:  Repetition; reduplication; reiteration. De Quincey. That Sacred ingemination, Amen, Amen. Featley. Happiness with an echo or ingemination. Holdsworth. 

INGENA:  The gorilla. 

INGENDER:  See Engender. 

INGENERABILLTY:  Incapacity of being engendered or produced. Cudworth. 

INGENERABLE:  Incapble of being engendered or produced; original. Holland. 

INGENERABLY:  In an ingenerable manner. 

INGENERATE:  Generated within; inborn; innate; as, ingenerate powers of body. W. Wotton. Those virtues were rather feigned and affected . . . than true qualities ingenerate in his judgment. Bacon. 

INGENERATE:  To generate or produce within; to begete; to engener; to occasion; to cause. Mede. Those noble habits are ingenerated in the soul. Sir M. Hale. 

INGENERATION:  Act of ingenerating. 

INGENIATE:  To invent; to contrive. [Obs.] Daniel. 

INGENIE:  See Ingeny. 

INGENIOSITY:  Ingenuity; skill; cunning. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

INGENIOUSLY:  In an ingenious manner; with ingenuity; skillfully; wittily; cleverly. "Too ingeniously politic." Sir W. Temple. 

INGENIOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being ingenious; ingenuity.  INGENITE; INGENIT In*gen"ite In*gen"it, a. Etym: [L. ingenitus, p. p. of ingignere to instill by birthor nature; pref. in- + gignere to beget.]  Innate; inborn; inbred; inherent; native; ingenerate. [Obs.] It is naturalor ingenite, which comes by some defect of the organs and overmuch brain. Burton. 

INGENUE:  An ingenuous or naïve girl or young woman, or an actress representing such a person. 

INGENUOUSLY:  In an ingenuous manner; openly; fairly; candidly; artlessly. Being required to explane himself, he ingeniously confessed. Ludlow. 

INGENY:  Natural gift or talent; ability; wit; ingenuity. [Obs.] [Written also ingenie.] Becon. 

INGERMINATE:  To cause to germinate. 

INGEST:  To take into, or as into, the stomach or alimentary canal. Sir T. Browne. 

INGESTA:  That which is introduced into the body by the stomach or alimentary canal; -- opposed to egesta. 

INGESTION:  The act of taking or putting into the stomach; as, the ingestion of milk or other food. 

INGHALLA:  The reedbuck of South Africa. [Written also ingali.] 

INGIRT:  To encircle to gird; to engirt. The wreath is ivy that ingirts our beams. Drayton. 

INGIRT:  Surrounded; encircled. Fenton. 

INGLE:  Flame; blaze; a fire; a fireplace. [Obs. or Scot.] Burns. Ingle nock, the chimney corner.  -- Ingle side, Ingle cheek, the fireside. 

INGLE:  A paramour; a favourite; a sweetheart; an engle. [Obs.] Toone. 

INGLE:  To cajole or coax; to wheedle. See Engle. [Obs.] 

INGLOBATE:  In the form of a globe or sphere; -- applied to nebulous matter collected into a sphere by the force of gravitation. 

INGLOBE:  To infix, as in a globe; to fix or secure firmly. [Obs.] Milton. 

INGLORIOUSLY:  In an inglorious manner; dishonorably; with shame; ignominiously; obscurely. 

INGLORIOUSNESS:  The state of being inglorious. 

INGLUT:  To glut. [R.] Ascham. 

INGLUVIAL:  Of or pertaining to the indulges or crop of birds. 

INGLUVIES:  The crop, or craw, of birds. 

INGLUVIOUS:  Gluttonous. [Obs.] Blount.  IN-GOING In"-go`ing, n.  The act of going in; entrance.  IN-GOING In"-go`ing, a.  Going; entering, as upon an office or a possession; as, an in- going tenant. 

INGORGE:  See Engorge. Milton. 

INGOT:  Steel cast in ingots from the Bessemer converter or open-hearth furnace. 

INGRACE:  To ingratiate. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 

INGRACIOUS:  Ungracious; unkind. [Obs.] Holland. 

INGRAFF:  See Ingraft. [Obs.] 

INGRAFTER:  A person who ingrafts. 

INGRAIN:  An ingrain fabric, as a carpet. 

INGRAPPLE:  To seize; to clutch; to grapple. [Obs.] Drayton. 

INGRATE:  Ingrateful. [Obs. or Poetic] Bacon. 

INGRATE:  An ungrateful person. Milton. 

INGRATELY:  Ungratefully. [Obs.] 

INGRATIATE:  To gain favor. [R.] Sir W. Temple. 

INGRATITUDE:  Want of gratitude; insensibility to, forgetfulness of, or ill return for, kindness or favors received; unthankfulness; ungratefulness. Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend. Shak. Ingratitude is abhorred both by God and man. L'Estrange. 

INGRAVE:  To engrave. [R.] "Whose gleaming rind ingrav'n." Tennyson. 

INGRAVE:  To bury. [Obs.] Heywood. 

INGRAVIDATE:  To impregnate. [Obs.] Fuller. 

INGRAVIDATION:  The state of being pregnant or impregnated. [Obs.] 

INGREAT:  To make great; to enlarge; to magnify. [Obs.] Fotherby.  INGREDIENCE; INGREDIENCY In*gre"di*ence, In*gre"di*en*cy, n. Etym: [See Ingredient.]  1. Entrance; ingress. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.  2. The quality or state of being an ingredient or component part. Boyle. 

INGREDIENT:  That which enters into a compound, or is a component part of any combination or mixture; an element; a constituent. By way of analysis we may proceed from compounds to ingredients. Sir I. Newton. Water is the chief ingredient in all the animal fluids and solids. Arbuthnot. 

INGREDIENT:  Entering as, or forming, an ingredient or component part. Acts where no sin is ingredient. Jer. Taylor. 

INGRESS:  The entrance of the moon into the shadow of the earth in eclipses, the sun's entrance into a sign, etc. 

INGRESS:  To go in; to enter. [R.] 

INGRESSION:  Act of entering; entrance. Sir K. Digby. 

INGRIEVE:  To render more grievous; to aggravate. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

INGROOVE:  To groove in; to join in or with a groove. Tennyson. 

INGROSS:  See Engross. 

INGROWING:  Growing or appearing to grow into some other substance. Ingrowing nail, one whose edges are becoming imbedded in the adjacent flesh. 

INGROWTH:  A growth or development inward. J. LeConte. 

INGUEN:  The groin. 

INGUILTY:  Not guilty. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

INGUINAL:  Of or pertaining to, or in the region of, the inguen or groin; as, an inguinal canal or ligament; inguinal hernia. Inguinal ring. See Abdominal ring, under Abdominal. 

INGULF:  To swallow up or overwhelm in, or as in, a gulf; to cast into a gulf. See Engulf. A river large . . . Passed underneath ingulfed. Milton. 

INGULFMENT:  The act of ingulfing, or the state of being ingulfed. 

INGURGITATE:  To guzzle; to swill. Burton. 

INGURGITATION:  The act of swallowing greedily or immoderately; that which is so swallowed. E. Darwin. He drowned his stomach and senses with a large draught and ingurgitation of wine. Bacon. 

INGUSTABLE:  Tasteless; insipid. Sir T. Browne. 

INHABILITY:  Unsuitableness; unaptness; unfitness; inability. [Obs.] Barrow. 

INHABIT:  To live or dwell in; to occupy, as a place of settled residence; as, wild beasts inhabit the forest; men inhabit cities and houses. The high and lofty One, that inhabiteth eternity. Is. lvii. 15. O, who would inhabit This bleak world alone Moore. 

INHABIT:  To have residence in a place; to dwell; to live; to abide. [Archaic or Poetic] Shak. They say wild beasts inhabit here. Waller. 

INHABITABLE:  Capable of being inhabited; habitable. Systems of inhabitable planets. Locke. 

INHABITABLE:  Not habitable; not suitable to be inhabited. [Obs.] The frozen ridges of the Alps Or other ground inhabitable. Shak.  INHABITANCE; INHABITANCY In*hab"it*ance, In*hab"it*an*cy, n.  1. The act of inhabiting, or the state of being inhabited; the condition of an inhabitant; residence; occupancy. Ruins yet resting in the wild moors testify a former inhabitance. Carew.  2. (Law)  The state of having legal right to claim the privileges of a recognized inhabitant; especially, the right to support in case of poverty, acquired by residence in a town; habitancy. 

INHABITANT:  One who has a legal settlement in a town, city, or parish; a permanent resident. 

INHABITATE:  To inhabit. [Obs.] 

INHABITATIVENESS:  A tendency or propensity to permanent residence in a place or abode; love of home and country. 

INHABITED:  Uninhabited. [Obs.] Brathwait. 

INHABITER:  An inhabitant. [R.] Derham. 

INHABITIVENESS:  See Inhabitativeness. What the phrenologists call inhabitiveness. Lowell. 

INHABITRESS:  A female inhabitant. [R.] 

INHALANT:  Inhaling; used for inhaling. 

INHALANT:  An apparatus also called an inhaler (which see); that which is to be inhaled. 

INHALATION:  The act of inhaling; also, that which is inhaled. 

INHALE:  To breathe or draw into the lungs; to inspire; as, to inhale air; -- opposed to exhale. Martin was walking forth to inhale the fresh breeze of the evening. Arbuthnot. 

INHALENT:  Used for inhaling; as, the inhalent end of a duct. Dana. 

INHANCE:  See Enhance.  INHARMONIC; INHARMONICAL In`har*mon"ic, In`har*mon"ic*al, a.  Not harmonic; inharmonious; discordant; dissonant. 

INHARMONIOUSLY:  Without harmony. 

INHARMONIOUSNESS:  The quality of being inharmonious; want of harmony; discord. The inharmoniousness of a verse. A. Tucker. 

INHARMONY:  Want of harmony.  INHAUL; INHAULER In"haul`, In"haul`er, n. (Naut.)  A rope used to draw in the jib boom, or flying jib boom. 

INHEARSE:  To put in, or as in, a hearse or coffin. Shak. 

INHERE:  To be inherent; to stick (in); to be fixed or permanently incorporated with something; to cleave (to); to belong, as attributes or qualities. They do but inhere in the subject that supports them. Digby.  INHERENCE; INHERENCY In*her"ence, In*her"en*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. inhérence.]  The state of inhering; permanent existence in something; innateness; inseparable and essential connection. Jer. Taylor. 

INHERENT:  Permanently existing in something; inseparably attached or connected; naturally pertaining to; innate; inalienable; as, polarity is an inherent quality of the magnet; the inherent right of men to life, liberty, and protection. "A most inherent baseness." Shak. The sore disease which seems inherent in civilization. Southey.  Syn.  -- Innate; inborn; native; natural; inbred; inwrought; inseparable; essential; indispensable. 

INHERENTLY:  By inherence; inseparably. Matter hath inherently and essentially such an internal energy. Bentley. 

INHERIT:  To take by descent from an ancestor; to take by inheritance; to take as heir on the death of an ancestor or other person to whose estate one succeeds; to receive as a right or title descendible by law from an ancestor at his decease; as, the heir inherits the land or real estate of his father; the eldest son of a nobleman inherits his father's title; the eldest son of a king inherits the crown.  2. To receive or take by birth; to have by nature; to derive or acquire from ancestors, as mental or physical qualities; as, he inherits a strong constitution, a tendency to disease, etc. Prince Harry is valiant; for the cold blood he did naturally inherit of his father he hath . . . manured . . . with good store of fertile sherris. Shak.  3. To come into possession of; to possess; to own; to enjoy as a possession. But the meek shall inherit the earth. Ps. xxxvii. 11. To bury so much gold under a tree, And never after to inherit it. Shak.  4. To put in possession of. [R.] Shak. 

INHERIT:  To take or hold a possession, property, estate, or rights by inheritance. Thou shalt not inherit our father's house. Judg. xi. 2. 

INHERITABILITY:  The quality of being inheritable or descendible to heirs. Jefferson. 

INHERITABLE:  Capable of taking by inheritance, or of receiving by descent; capable of succeeding to, as an heir. By attainder . . . the blood of the person attainted is so corrupted as to be rendered no longer inheritable. Blackstone. The eldest daughter of the king is also alone inheritable to the crown on failure of issue male. Blackstone. Inheritable blood, blood or relationship by which a person becomes qualified to be an heir, or to transmit possessions by inheritance. 

INHERITABLY:  By inheritance. Sherwood. 

INHERITANCE:  Transmission and reception by animal or plant generation.  6. (Law)  A perpetual or continuing right which a man and his heirs have to an estate; an estate which a man has by descent as heir to another, or which he may transmit to another as his heir; an estate derived from an ancestor to an heir in course of law. Blackstone.  Note: The word inheritance (used simply) is mostly confined to the title to land and tenements by a descent. Mozley & W. Men are not proprietors of what they have, merely for themselves; their children have a title to part of it which comes to be wholly theirs when death has put an end to their parents' use of it; and this we call inheritance. Locke. 

INHERITOR:  One who inherits; an heir. Born inheritors of the dignity. Milton. 

INHERITRESS:  A heiress. Milman. 

INHERITRIX:  Same as Inheritress. Shak. 

INHERSE:  See Inhearse. 

INHESION:  The state of existing, of being inherent, in something; inherence. A. Baxter. Constant inhesion and habitual abode. South. 

INHIATION:  A gaping after; eager desire; craving. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

INHIBITION:  A stopping or checking of an already present action; a restraining of the function of an organ, or an agent, as a digestive fluid or ferment, etc.; as, the inhibition of the respiratory center by the pneumogastric nerve; the inhibition of reflexes, etc.  3. (Law)  A writ from a higher court forbidding an inferior judge from further proceedings in a cause before; esp., a writ issuing from a higher ecclesiastical court to an inferior one, on appeal. Cowell. 

INHIBITOR:  That which causes inhibitory action; esp., an inhibitory nerve. 

INHIBITORY:  Of or pertaining to, or producing, inhibition; consisting in inhibition; tending or serving to inhibit; as, the inhibitory action of the pneumogastric on the respiratory center. I would not have you consider these criticisms as inhibitory. Lamb. Inhibitory nerves (Physiol.), those nerves which modify, inhibit, or suppress a motor or secretory act already in progress.  INHIBITORY-MOTOR In*hib"i*to*ry-mo"tor, a. (Physiol.)  A term applied to certain nerve centers which govern or restrain subsidiary centers, from which motor impressions issue. McKendrick. 

INHIVE:  To place in a hive; to hive. 

INHOLD:  To have inherent; to contain in itself; to possess. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

INHOLDER:  An inhabitant. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INHOOP:  To inclose in a hoop, or as in a hoop. [R.] Shak. 

INHOSPITALITY:  The quality or state of being inhospitable; inhospitableness; lack of hospitality. Bp. Hall. 

INHUMANITY:  The quality or state of being inhuman; cruelty; barbarity. Man's inhumanity to man Makes countless thousands mourn. Burns. 

INHUMANLY:  In an inhuman manner; cruelly; barbarously. 

INHUMATE:  To inhume; to bury; to inter. Hedge. 

INHUMATION:  The act of burying vessels in warm earth in order to expose their contents to a steady moderate heat; the state of being thus exposed.  3. (Med.)  Arenation. 

INIA:  A South American freshwater dolphin (Inia Boliviensis). It is ten or twelve feet long, and has a hairy snout. 

INIAL:  Pertaining to the inion. 

INIMAGINABLE:  Unimaginable; inconceivable. [R.] Bp. Pearson. 

INIMICALITY:  The state or quality of being inimical or hostile; hostility; unfriendliness. [R.] 

INIMICALLY:  In an inimical manner. 

INIMICITIOUS:  Inimical; unfriendly. [R.] Sterne. 

INIMICOUS:  Inimical; hurtful. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

INIMITABILITY:  The quality or state of being inimitable; inimitableness. Norris. 

INIMITABLE:  Not capable of being imitated, copied, or counterfeited; beyond imitation; surpassingly excellent; matchless; unrivaled; exceptional; unique; as, an inimitable style; inimitable eloquence. "Inimitable force." Dryden. Performing such inimitable feats. Cowper. -- In*im"i*ta*ble*ness, n.  -- In*im"i*ta*bly, adv. 

INION:  The external occipital protuberance of the skull. 

INIQUITOUS:  Characterized by iniquity; unjust; wicked; as, an iniquitous bargain; an iniquitous proceeding. Demagogues . . . bribed to this iniquitous service. Burke.  Syn.  -- Wicked; wrong; unjust; unrighteous; nefarious; criminal.  -- Iniquitous, Wicked, Nefarious. Wicked is the generic term. Iniquitous is stronger, denoting a violation of the rights of others, usually by fraud or circumvention. Nefarious is still stronger, implying a breach of the most sacred obligations, and points more directly to the intrinsic badness of the deed. 

INIQUITOUSLY:  In an iniquitous manner; unjustly; wickedly. 

INIQUOUS:  Iniquitous. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INIRRITABLE:  Not irritable; esp. (Physiol.), incapable of being stimulated to action, as a muscle.  -- In*ir`ri*ta*bil"i*ty, n. 

INIRRITATIVE:  Not accompanied with excitement; as, an inirritative fever. E. Darwin. 

INISLE:  To form into an island; to surround. [Obs.] Drayton. 

INITIAL:  The first letter of a word or a name. 

INITIAL:  To put an initial to; to mark with an initial of initials. [R.] 

INITIALLY:  In an initial or incipient manner or degree; at the beginning. Barrow. 

INITIATE:  To do the first act; to perform the first rite; to take the initiative. [R.] Pope. 

INITIATE:  One who is, or is to be, initiated. 

INITIATIVE:  Serving to initiate; inceptive; initiatory; introductory; preliminary. 

INITIATOR:  One who initiates. 

INITIATORY:  An introductory act or rite. [R.] 

INITION:  Initiation; beginning. [Obs.] Sir R. Naunton. 

INJECT:  To fill (a vessel, cavity, or tissue) with a fluid or other substance; as, to inject the blood vessels. 

INJECTOR:  A contrivance for forcing feed water into a steam boiler by the direct action of the steam upon the water. The water is driven into the boiler by the impulse of a jet of the steam which becomes condensed as soon as it strikes the stream of cold water it impels; - - also called Giffard's injector, from the inventor. 

INJELLY:  To place in jelly. [R.] 

INJOIN:  See Enjoin. 

INJOINT:  To join; to unite. [R.] Shak. 

INJOINT:  To disjoint; to separate. [Obs.] Holland. 

INJUCUNDITY:  Unpleassantness; disagreeableness. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

INJUDICABLE:  Not cognizable by a judge. [Obs.] Bailey. 

INJUDICIAL:  Not according to the forms of law; not judicial. [R.] 

INJUDICIOUSLY:  In an injudicious manner. 

INJUDICIOUSNESS:  The quality of being injudicious; want of sound judgment; indiscretion. Whitlock. 

INJUNCTION:  A writ or process, granted by a court of equity, and, insome cases, under statutes, by a court of law,whereby a party is required to do or to refrain from doing certain acts, according to the exigency of the writ.  Note: It is more generally used as a preventive than as a restorative process, although by no means confined to the former. Wharton. Daniell. Story. 

INJURE:  To do harm to; to impair the excellence and value of; to hurt; to damage; -- used in a variety of senses; as: (a) To hurt or wound, as the person; to impair soundness, as of health. (b) To damage or lessen the value of, as goods or estate. (c) To slander, tarnish, or impair, as reputation or character. (d) To impair or diminish, as happiness or virtue. (e) To give pain to, as the sensibilities or the feelings; to grieve; to annoy. (f) To impair, as the intellect or mind. When have I injured thee when done thee wrong Shak.  Syn.  -- To damage; mar; spoil; harm; sully; wrong; maltreat; abuse; insult; affront; dishonor. 

INJURER:  One who injures or wrongs. 

INJURIA:  Injury; invasion of another's rights. 

INJURIOUSLY:  In an injurious or hurtful manner; wrongfully; hurtfully; mischievously. 

INJURIOUSNESS:  The quality of being injurious or hurtful; harmfulness; injury. 

INJURY:  Any damage or violation of, the person, character, feelings, rights, property, or interests of an individual; that which injures, or occasions wrong, loss, damage, or detriment; harm; hurt; loss; mischief; wrong; evil; as, his health was impaired by a severe injury; slander is an injury to the character. For he that doeth injury shall receve that he did evil. Wyclif(Col. iii. 25). Many times we do injury to a cause by dwelling on trifling arguments. I. Watts. Riot ascends above their loftiest towers, And injury and outrage. Milton.  Note: Injury in morals and jurisprudence is the intentional doing of wrong. Fleming.  Syn.  -- Harm; hurt; damage; loss; impairment; detriment; wrong; evil; injustice. 

INK:  The step, or socket, in which the lower end of a millstone spindle runs. 

INK:  To put ink upon; to supply with ink; to blacken, color, or daub with ink. 

INKER:  One who, or that which, inks; especially, in printing, the pad or roller which inks the type. 

INKFISH:  A cuttlefish. See Cuttlefish. 

INKHORN:  A small bottle of horn or other material formerly used for holding ink; an inkstand; a portable case for writing materials. "With a writer's inkhorn by his side." Ezek. ix. 2. From his pocket the notary drew his papers and inkhorn. Longfellow. 

INKHORN:  Learned; pedantic; affected. [Obs.] "Inkhorn terms." Bale. 

INKHORNISM:  Pedantry. Sir T. Wilson. 

INKINESS:  The state or quality of being inky; blackness. 

INKING:  Supplying or covering with ink. Inking roller, a somewhat elastic roller,used to spread ink over forms of type, copperplates, etc.  -- Inking trough or table, a trough or table from which the inking roller receives its ink. 

INKLE:  A kind of tape or braid. Shak. 

INKLE:  To guess. [Prov. Eng.] "She inkled what it was." R. D. Blackmore. 

INKLING:  A hint; an intimation. The least inkling or glimpse of this island. Bacon. They had some inkling of secret messages. Clarendon. 

INKNEE:  Same as Knock-knee. 

INKNEED:  See Knock-kneed. 

INKNOT:  To fasten or bind, as with a knot; to knot together. Fuller. 

INKSTAND:  A small vessel for holding ink, to dip the pen into; also, a device for holding ink and writing materials. 

INKSTONE:  A kind of stone containing native vitriol or subphate of iron, used in making ink. 

INKY:  Consisting of, or resembling, ink; soiled with ink; black. "Inky blots." Shak. "Its inky blackness." Boyle. 

INLACE:  To work in, as lace; to embellish with work resembling lace; also, to lace or enlace. P. Fletcher. 

INLAGATION:  The restitution of an outlawed person to the protection of the law; inlawing. Bouvier. 

INLAID:  of Inlay. 

INLAND:  The interior part of a country. Shak. 

INLAND:  Into, or towards, the interior, away from the coast. Cook. The greatest waves of population have rolled inland from the east. S. Turner. 

INLANDER:  One who lives in the interior of a country, or at a distance from the sea. Sir T. Browne. 

INLANDISH:  Inland. [Obs.] T. Reeve(1657) 

INLAPIDATE:  To convert into a stony substance; to petrity. [R.] Bacon. 

INLARD:  See Inlard. 

INLAW:  To clear of outlawry or attainder; to place under the protection of the law. Burrill. 

INLAY:  To lay within; hence, to insert, as pieces of pearl, iviry, choice woods, or the like, in a groundwork of some other material; to form an ornamental surface; to diversify or adorn with insertions. Look,how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold. Shak. But these things are . . . borrowed by the monks to inlay their story. Milton. 

INLAY:  Matter or pieces of wood, ivory, etc., inlaid, or prepared for inlaying; that which is inserted or inlaid for ornament or variety. Crocus and hyacinth with rich inlay Broidered the ground. Milton. The sloping of the moonlit sward Was damask work, and deep inlay Of braided blooms. Tennyson. 

INLAYER:  One who inlays, or whose occupation it is to inlay. 

INLEAGUE:  To ally, or form an alliance witgh; to unite; to combine. With a willingness inleague our blood With his, for purchase of full growth in friendship. Ford. 

INLEAGUER:  To beleaguer. Holland. 

INLIGHTEN:  See Enlighten. 

INLIST:  See Enlist. 

INLIVE:  To animate. [R.] B. Jonson. 

INLOCK:  To lock in, or inclose.  IN LOCO In lo"co. Etym: [L.]  In the place; in the proper or natural place. 

INLUMINE:  See Illumine. 

INLY:  Internal; interior; secret. Didst thou but know the inly touch of love. Shak. 

INLY:  Internally; within; in the heart. "Whereat he inly raged." Milton. 

INMACY:  The state of being an inmate. [R.] Craig. 

INMATE:  One who lives in the same house or apartment with another; a fellow lodger; esp.,one of the occupants of an asylum, hospital, or prison; by extension, one who occupies or lodges in any place or dwelling. So spake the enemy of mankind, inclos'd In serpent, inmate bad. Milton. 

INMATE:  Admitted as a dweller; resident; internal. [R.] "Inmate guests." Milton. 

INMEATS:  The edible viscera of animals, as the heart, liver, etc. 

INMESH:  To bring within meshes, as of a net; to enmesh. 

INMEW:  To inclose, as in a mew or cage. [R.] "Inmew the town below." Beau. & Fl. 

INMOST:  Deepest within; farthest from the surface or external part; innermost. And pierce the inmost center of the earth. Shak. The silent, slow, consuming fires, Which on my inmost vitals prey. Addison. 

INN:  To take lodging; to lodge. [R.] Addison. 

INNATE:  Originating in, or derived from, the constitution of the intellect, as opposed to acquired from experience; as, innate ideas. See A priori, Intuitive. There is an innate light in every man, discovering to him the first lines of duty in the common notions of good and evil. South. Men would not be guilty if they did not carry in their mind common notions of morality,innate and written in divine letters. Fleming (Origen). If I could only show,as I hope I shall . . . how men, barely by the use of their natural faculties, may attain to all the knowledge they have, without the help of any innate impressions; and may arrive at certainty without any such original notions or principles. Locke.  3. (Bot.)  Joined by the base to the very tip of a filament; as, an innate anther. Gray. Innate ideas (Metaph.), ideas, as of God, immortality, right and wrong, supposed by some to be inherent in the mind, as a priori principles of knowledge. 

INNATE:  To cause to exit; to call into being. [Obs.] "The first innating cause." Marston. 

INNATELY:  Naturally. 

INNATENESS:  The quality of being innate. 

INNATIVE:  Native. [Obs.] Chapman. 

INNAVIGABLE:  Incapable of being navigated; impassable by ships or vessels. Drygen.  -- In*nav"i*ga*bly, adv. 

INNE:  In. [Obs.] And eke in what array that they were inne. Chaucer. 

INNERLY:  More within. [Obs.] Baret. 

INNERMOST:  Farthest inward; most remote from the outward part; inmost; deepest within. Prov. xviii. 8. 

INNERMOSTLY:  In the innermost place. [R.] His ebon cross worn innermostly. Mrs. Browning. 

INNERVATE:  To supply with nerves; as, the heart is innervated by pneumogastric and sympathetic branches. 

INNERVATION:  Special activity excited in any part of the nervous system or in any organ of sense or motion; the nervous influence necessary for the maintenance of life,and the functions of the various organs.  3. (Anat.)  The distribution of nerves in an animal, or to any of its parts. 

INNERVE:  To give nervous energy or power to; to give increased energy,force,or courage to; to invigorate; to stimulate. 

INNHOLDER:  One who keeps an inn. 

INNING:  Lands recovered from the sea. Ainsworth. 

INNITENCY:  A leaning; pressure; weight. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

INNIXION:  Act of leaning upon something; incumbency. [Obs.] Derham. 

INNKEEPER:  An innholder. 

INNOCENCY:  Innocence. 

INNOCENTLY:  In an innocent manner. 

INNOCUITY:  Innocuousness. 

INNOCUOUS:  Harmless; producing no ill effect; innocent. A patient, innocuous, innocent man. Burton. -- In*noc"u*ous*ly, adv.  -- In*noc"u*ous*ness, n. Where the salt sea innocuously breaks. Wordsworth. 

INNODATE:  To bind up,as in a knot; to include. [Obs.] Fuller. 

INNOMINABLE:  Not to be named. [R.] Testament of Love. 

INNOMINATE:  A term used in designating many parts otherwise unnamed; as, the innominate artery, a great branch of the arch of the aorta; the innominate vein, a great branch of the superior vena cava. Innominate bone (Anat.), the great bone which makes a lateral half of the pelvis in mammals; hip bone; haunch bone; huckle bone. It is composed of three bones, ilium, ischium, and pubis, consolidated into one in the adult, though separate in the fetus, as also in many adult reptiles and amphibians.  -- Innominate contracts (Law), in the Roman law, contracts without a specific name. 

INNOVATE:  To introduce novelties or changes; -- sometimes with in or on. Bacon. Every man,therefore,is not fit to innovate. Dryden. 

INNOVATION:  A newly formed shoot, or the annually produced addition to the stems of many mosses. 

INNOVATIONIST:  One who favors innovation. 

INNOVATIVE:  Characterized by, or introducing, innovations. Fitzed. Hall. 

INNOVATOR:  One who innovates. Shak. 

INNUBILOUS:  Cloudless. [Obs.] Blount. 

INNUENDO:  An averment employed in pleading, to point the application of matter otherwise unintelligible; an interpretative parenthesis thrown into quoted matter to explain an obscure word or words; -- as, the plaintiff avers that the defendant said that he (innuendo the plaintiff) was a thief. Wharton.  Note: The term is so applied from having been the introductory word of this averment or parenthetic explanation when pleadings were in Latin. The word "meaning" is used as its equivalent in modern forms.  Syn.  -- Insinuation; suggestion; hint; intimation; reference; allusion; implication; representation; -- Innuendo, Insinuation. An innuendo is an equivocal allusion so framed as to point distinctly at something which is injurious to the character or reputation of the person referred to. An insinuation turns on no such double use of language, but consists in artfully winding into the mind imputations of an injurious nature without making any direct charge. 

INNUENT:  Conveying a hint; significant. [Obs.] Burton. 

INNUIT:  An Eskimo. 

INNUMERABILITY:  State of being innumerable. Fotherby. 

INNUMERABLE:  Not capable of being counted, enumerated, or numbered, for multitude; countless; numberless; unnumbered, hence, indefinitely numerous; of great number. Innumerable as the stars of night. Milton. -- In*nu"mer*a*ble*ness, n.  -- In*nu"mer*a*bly, adv. 

INNUMEROUS:  Innumerable. [Archaic] Milton. 

INNUTRITION:  Want of nutrition; failure of nourishment. E. Darwin. 

INNUTRITIOUS:  Not nutritious; not furnishing nourishment. 

INNUTRITIVE:  Innutritious. 

INNYARD:  The yard adjoining an inn. 

INOBEDIENCE:  Disobedience. [Obs.] Wyclif. Chaucer. 

INOBEDIENT:  Not obedient; disobedient. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- In`o*be"di*ent*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

INOBSERVABLE:  Not observable. 

INOBSERVANCE:  Want or neglect of observance. Bacon. 

INOBSERVANT:  Not observant; regardless; heedless. Bp. Hurd.  -- In`ob*serv"ant*ly, adv. 

INOBSERVATION:  Neglect or want of observation. [R.] 

INOBTRUSIVE:  Not obtrusive; unobtrusive.  -- In`ob*tru"sive*ly, adv.  -- In`ob*tru"sive*ness, n. 

INOCARPIN:  A red, gummy, coloring matter, extracted from the colorless juice of the Otaheite chestnut (Inocarpus edulis). 

INOCCUPATION:  Want of occupation. 

INOCERAMUS:  An extinct genus of large, fossil, bivalve shells,allied to the mussels. The genus is characteristic of the Cretaceous period. 

INOCULABILITY:  The qual ity or state of being inoculable. 

INOCULABLE:  Capable of being inoculated; capable of communicating disease, or of being communicated, by inoculation. 

INOCULAR:  Inserted in the corner of the eye; -- said of the antenn 

INOCULATE:  To communicate a disease to ( a person ) by inserting infectious matter in the skin or flesh; as, to inoculate a person with the virus of smallpox,rabies, etc. See Vaccinate.  4. Fig.: To introduce into the mind; -- used especially of harmful ideas or principles; to imbue; as, to inoculate one with treason or infidelity. 

INOCULATION:  The act or practice of communicating a disease to a person in health, by inserting contagious matter in his skin or flesh.  Note: The use was formerly limited to the intentional communication of the smallpox, but is now extended to include any similar introduction of modified virus; as, the inoculation of rabies by Pasteur.  3. Fig.: The communication of principles, especially false principles, to the mind. 

INOCULATOR:  One who inoculates; one who propagates plants or diseases by inoculation. 

INODIATE:  To make odious or hateful. [Obs.] South. 

INODORATE:  Inodorous. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INODOROUS:  Emitting no odor; wthout smell; scentless; odorless.  -- In*o"dor*ous*ness, n. 

INOFFICIAL:  Not official; not having official sanction or authoriy; not according to the forms or ceremony of official business; as, inofficial intelligence. Pinckney and Marshall would not make inofficial visits to discuss official business. Pickering.  Syn.  -- Private; informal; unwarranted; unauthorizod; irregular; unceremonious; unprofessional. 

INOFFICIALLY:  Without the usual forms, or not in the official character. 

INOFFICIOUS:  Regardless of natural obligation; contrary to natural duty; unkind; -- commonly said of a testament made without regard to natural obligation, or by which a child is unjustly deprived of inheritance. "The inofficious testament." Blackstone. "An inofficious disposition of his fortune." Paley. 

INOFFICIOUSLY:  Not-officiously. 

INOGEN:  A complex nitrogenous substance, which, by Hermann's hypothesis, is continually decomposed and reproduced in the muscles, during their life. 

INOPERATION:  Agency; influence; production of effects. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

INOPERATIVE:  Not operative; not active; producing no effects; as, laws renderd inoperative by neglect; inoperative remedies or processes.  INOPERCULAR; INOPERCULATE In`o*per"cu*lar, In`o*per"cu*late, a. (Zoöl.)  Having no operculum; -- said of certain gastropod shells. 

INOPINABLE:  Not to be expected; inconceivable. [Obs.] "Inopinable, incredible . . . saings." Latimer. 

INOPINATE:  Not expected or looked for. [Obs.] 

INOPPORTUNE:  Not opportune; inconvenient; unseasonable; as, an inopportune occurrence, remark, etc. No visit could have been more inopportune. T. Hook. 

INOPPORTUNELY:  Not opportunely; unseasonably; inconveniently. 

INOPPORTUNITY:  Want of opportunity; unseasonableness; inconvenience. [R.] 

INOPPRESSIVE:  Not oppressive or burdensome. O. Wolcott. 

INOPULENT:  Not opulent; not affluent or rich. 

INORDINACY:  The state or quality of being inordinate; excessiveness; immoderateness; as, the inordinacy of love or desire. Jer. Taylor. 

INORDINATE:  Not limited to rules prescribed, or to usual bounds; irregular; excessive; immoderate; as, an inordinate love of the world. "Inordinate desires." Milton. "Inordinate vanity." Burke.  -- In*or"di*nate*ly, adv.  -- In*or"di*nate*ness, n. 

INORDINATION:  Deviation from custom, rule, or right; irregularity; inordinacy. [Obs.] South. Every inordination of religion that is not in defect, is properly called superstition. Jer. Taylor. 

INORGANIC:  Not organic; without the organs necessary for life; devoid of an organized structure; unorganized; lifeness; inanimate; as, all chemical compounds are inorganic substances.  Note: The term inorganic is used to denote any one the large series of substances (as minerals, metals, etc.), which are not directly connected with vital processes, either in origin or nature, and which are broadly and relatively contrasted with organic subscances. See Organic. Inorganic Chemistry. See under Chemistry. 

INORGANICAL:  Inorganic. Locke. 

INORGANICALLY:  In an inorganic manner. 

INORGANITY:  Quality of being inorganic. [Obs.] "The inorganity of the soul." Sir T. Browne. 

INORGANIZATION:  The state of being without organization. 

INORGANIZED:  Not having organic structure; devoid of organs; inorganic. 

INORTHOGRAPHY:  Deviation from correct orthography; bad spelling. [Obs.] Feltham. 

INOSCULATION:  The junction or connection of vessels, channels, or passages, so that their contents pass from one to the other; union by mouths or ducts; anastomosis; intercommunication; as, inosculation of veins, etc. Ray. 

INOSINIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, inosite; as, inosinic acid. 

INOSITE:  A white crystalline substance with a sweet taste, found in certain animal tissues and fluids, particularly in the muscles of the heart and lungs, also in some plants, as in unripe pease, beans, potato sprouts, etc. Called also phaseomannite.  Note: Chemically,it has the composition represented by the formula, C6H12O6+H2O, and was formerly regarded as a carbohydrate, isomeric with dextrose, but is now known to be an aromatic compound (a hexacid phenol derivative of benzene). 

INOXIDIZABLE:  Incapable of being oxidized; as, gold and platinum are inoxidizable in the air. 

INOXIDIZE:  To prevent or hinder oxidation, rust, or decay; as, inoxidizing oils or varnishes. 

INPATIENT:  A patient who receives lodging and food, as well as treatment, in a hospital or an infirmary; -- distinguished from outpatient.  IN POSSE In` pos"se. Etym: [L.]  In possibility; possible, although not yet in existence or come to pass; -- contradistinguished from in esse. 

INQUARTATION:  Quartation. 

INQUIET:  To disquiet. [Obs.] Joye. 

INQUIETATION:  Disturbance. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

INQUIETNESS:  Unquietness. [Obs.] Joye. 

INQUIETUDE:  Disturbed state; uneasiness either of body or mind; restlessness; disquietude. Sir H. Wotton. 

INQUILINE:  A gallfly which deposits its eggs in galls formed by other insects. 

INQUINATE:  To defile; to pollute; to contaminate; to befoul. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INQUINATION:  A defiling; pollution; stain. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INQUIRABLE:  Capable of being inquired into; subject or liable to inquisition or inquest. Bacon. 

INQUIRANCE:  Inquiry. [Obs.] Latimer. 

INQUIRENT:  Making inquiry; inquiring; questioning. [Obs.] Shenstone. 

INQUIRER:  One who inquires or examines; questioner; investigator. Locke. Expert inquirers after truth. Cowper. 

INQUIRING:  Given to inquiry; disposed to investigate causes; curious; as, an inquiring mind. 

INQUIRINGLY:  In an inquiring manner. 

INQUISIBLE:  Admitting judicial inquiry. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

INQUISITION:  A court or tribunal for the examination and punishment of heretics, fully established by Pope Gregory IX. in 1235. Its operations were chiefly confined to Spain, Portugal, and their dependencies, and a part of Italy. 

INQUISITION:  To make inquisistion concerning; to inquire into. [Obs.] Milton. 

INQUISITIONAL:  Relating to inquiry or inquisition; inquisitorial; also, of or pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Inquisition. All the inquisitional rigor . . . executed upon books. Milton. 

INQUISITIONARY:  Inquisitional. 

INQUISITIVE:  A person who is inquisitive; one curious in research. Sir W. Temple. 

INQUISITIVELY:  In an inquisitive manner. The occasion that made him afterwards so inquisitively apply himself to the study of physic. Boyle. 

INQUISITIVENESS:  The quality or state of being inquisitive; the disposition to seek explanation and information; curiosity to learn what is unknown; esp., uncontrolled and impertinent curiosity. Mr. Boswell, whose inquisitiveness is seconded by great activity, scrambled in at a high window. Johnson. Curiosity in children nature has provided, to remove that ignorance they were born with; which, without this busy inquisitiveness, will make them dull. Locke. 

INQUISITOR:  One whose official duty it is to examine and inquire, as coroners, sheriffs, etc. Mozley & W.  3. (R.C.Ch.)  A member of the Court of Inquisition. 

INQUISITORIALLY:  In an inquisitorial manner. 

INQUISITORIOUS:  Making strict inquiry; inquisitorial. [Obs.] Milton. 

INQUISITURIENT:  Inquisitorial. [Obs.] "Our inquisiturient bishops." Milton. 

INRACINATE:  To enroot or implant. 

INRAIL:  To rail in; to inclose or surround, as with rails. Hooker. 

INREGISTER:  To register; to enter, as in a register. [R.] Walsh.  IN REM In rem. [L.] (Law) Lit., in or against a (or the) thing; -- used:  (a) Of any right (called right, or jus, in rem) of such a nature as to be available over its subject without reference to one person more than another, or, as generally expressed, a right competent, or available, against all persons. Rights in rem include not alone rights over physical property, but all rights available against all persons indifferently, as those of life, liberty, and reputation.  (b) Of actions for recovering or reducing to possession or enjoyment a specific object, as in the enforcement of maritime liens against a vessel, which is made the defendant by a sort of personification. Most actions for the specific recovery of property in English and American law are in the nature of actions in personam against a person alleged to be unlawfully withholding the property. 

INRO:  A small closed receptacle or set of receptacles of hard material, as lacquered wood, iron, bronze, or ivory, used by the Japanese to hold medicines, perfumes, and the like, and carried in the girdle. It is usually secured by a silk cord by which the wearer may grasp it, which cord passes through an ornamental button or knob called a netsuke. 

INROAD:  The entrance of an enemy into a country with purposes of hostility; a sudden or desultory incursion or invasion; raid; encroachment. The loss of Shrewsbury exposed all North Wales to the daily inroads of the enemy. Clarendon. With perpetual inroads to alarm, Though inaccessible, his fatal throne. Milton.  Syn.  -- Invasion; incursion; irruption. See Invasion. 

INROAD:  To make an inroad into; to invade. [Obs.] The Saracens . . . conquered Spain, inroaded Aquitaine. Fuller. 

INROLL:  See Enroll. 

INRUNNING:  The act or the place of entrance; an inlet. Tennyson. 

INRUSH:  A rush inwards; as, the inrush of the tide. G. Eliot. 

INRUSH:  To rush in. [Obs.] Holland. 

INSABBATATI:  The Waldenses; -- so called from their peculiary cut or marked sabots, or shoes. 

INSAFETY:  Insecurity; danger. [Obs.] 

INSALIVATION:  The mixing of the food with the saliva and other secretions of the mouth in eating. 

INSALUBRIOUS:  Not salubrious or healthful; unwholesome; as, an insalubrious air or climate. 

INSALUBRITY:  Unhealthfulness; unwholesomeness; as, the insalubrity of air, water, or climate. Boyle. 

INSANABILITY:  The state of being insanable or incurable; insanableness. 

INSANABLE:  Not capable of being healed; incurable; irremediable. 

INSANABLENESS:  The state of being insanable; insanability; incurableness. 

INSANABLY:  In an incurable manner. 

INSANELY:  Without reason; madly; foolishly. 

INSANENESS:  Insanity; madness. 

INSANIATE:  To render unsound; to make mad. [Obs.] Feltham. 

INSANIE:  Insanity. [Obs.] Shak. 

INSANITARY:  Not sanitary; unhealthy; as, insanitary conditions of drainage. 

INSANITATION:  Lack of sanitation; careless or dangerous hygienic conditions. 

INSANITY:  Such a mental condition, as, either from the existence of delusions, or from incapacity to distinguish between right and wrong, with regard to any matter under action, does away with individual responsibility.  Syn. - Insanity, Lunacy, Madness, Derangement, Aliention, Aberration, Mania, Delirium, Frenzy, Monomania, Dementia. Insanity is the generic term for all such diseases; lunacy has now an equal extent of meaning, though once used to denote periodical insanity; madness has the same extent, though originally referring to the rage created by the disease; derangement, alienation, are popular terms for insanity; delirium, mania, and frenzy denote excited states of the disease; dementia denotes the loss of mental power by this means; monomania is insanity upon a single subject. 

INSAPORY:  Tasteless; unsavory. [R.] Sir T. Herbert. 

INSATIABILITY:  The state or quality of being insatiable; insatiableness. Eagerness for increase of possession deluges the soul, and we sink into the gulfs of insatiability. Rambler. 

INSATIABLE:  Not satiable; incapable of being satisfied or appeased; very greedy; as, an insatiable appetite, thirst, or desire. "Insatiable of glory." Milton. 

INSATIABLENESS:  Greediness of appetite that can not be satisfied or appeased; insatiability. The eye of the covetous hath a more particular insatiableness. Bp. Hall. 

INSATIABLY:  In an insatiable manner or degree; unappeasably. "Insatiably covetous." South. 

INSATIATE:  Insatiable; as, insatiate thirst. The insatiate greediness of his desires. Shak. And still insatiate, thirsting still for blood. Hook. 

INSATIATELY:  Insatiably. Sir T. Herbert. 

INSATIATENESS:  The state of being insatiate. 

INSATIETY:  Insatiableness. T. Grander. 

INSATURABLE:  Not capable of being saturated or satisfied. 

INSCIENCE:  Want of knowledge; ignorance. [Obs.] 

INSCIENT:  Having little or no knowledge; ignorant; stupid; silly. [R.] N. Bacon. 

INSCIENT:  Having knowledge or insight; intelligent. [R.] Gaze on, with inscient vision, toward the sun. Mrs. Browning. 

INSCONCE:  See Ensconce. 

INSCRIBABLE:  Capable of being inscribed, -- used specif. (Math.) of solids or plane figures capable of being inscribed in other solids or figures. 

INSCRIBABLENESS:  Quality of being inscribable. 

INSCRIBE:  To draw within so as to meet yet not cut the boundaries.  Note: A line is inscribed in a circle, or in a sphere, when its two ends are in the circumference of the circle, or in the surface of the sphere. A triangle is inscribed in another triangle, when the three angles of the former are severally on the three sides of the latter. A circle is inscribed in a polygon, when it touches each side of the polygon. A sphere is inscribed in a polyhedron, when the sphere touches each boundary plane of the polyhedron. The latter figure in each case is circumscribed about the former. 

INSCRIBER:  One who inscribes. Pownall. 

INSCRIPTIBLE:  Capable of being inscribed; inscribable. 

INSCRIPTION:  A line of division or intersection; as, the tendinous inscriptions, or intersections, of a muscle.  4. An address, consignment, or informal dedication, as of a book to a person, as a mark of respect or an invitation of patronage. 

INSCRIPTIVE:  Bearing inscription; of the character or nature of an inscription. 

INSCROLL:  To write on a scroll; to record. [Written also inscrol.] Shak. 

INSCRUTABILITY:  The quality or state of being inscrutable; inscrutableness. 

INSCRUTABLE:  Unsearchable; incapable of being searched into and understood by inquiry or study; impossible or difficult to be explained or accounted for satisfactorily; obscure; incomprehensible; as, an inscrutable design or event. 'T is not in man To yield a reason for the will of Heaven Which is inscrutable. Beau. & Fl. Waiving a question so inscrutable as this. De Quincey. 

INSCRUTABLENESS:  The quality or state of being inscrutable; inscrutability. 

INSCRUTABLY:  In an inscrutable manner. 

INSCULP:  To engrave; to carve; to sculpture. [Obs. & R.] Shak. Which he insculped in two likely stones. Drayton. 

INSCULPTION:  Inscription. [Obs.] 

INSCULPTURE:  An engraving, carving, or inscription. [Obs.] On his gravestone this insculpture. Shak. 

INSCULPTURED:  Engraved. Glover. 

INSEAM:  To impress or mark with a seam or cicatrix. Pope. 

INSEARCH:  To make search after; to investigate or examine; to ensearch. [Obs.] 

INSECABLE:  Incapable of being divided by cutting; indivisible. 

INSECT:  One of the Insecta; esp., one of the Hexapoda. See Insecta.  Note: The hexapod insects pass through three stages during their growth, viz., the larva, pupa, and imago or adult, but in some of the orders the larva differs little from the imago, except in lacking wings, and the active pupa is very much like the larva, except in having rudiments of wings. In the higher orders, the larva is usually a grub, maggot, or caterpillar, totally unlike the adult, while the pupa is very different from both larva and imago and is inactive, taking no food.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any air-breathing arthropod, as a spider or scorpion.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any small crustacean. In a wider sense, the word is often loosely applied to various small invertebrates.  4. Fig.: Any small, trivial, or contemptible person or thing. Thomson. Insect powder,a powder used for the extermination of insects; esp., the powdered flowers of certain species of Pyrethrum, a genus now merged in Chrysanthemum. Called also Persian powder. 

INSECTA:  One of the classes of Arthropoda, including those that have one pair of antennæ, three pairs of mouth organs, and breathe air by means of tracheæ, opening by spiracles along the sides of the body. In this sense it includes the Hexapoda, or six-legged insects and the Myriapoda, with numerous legs. See Insect, n.  2. (Zoöl.)  In a more restricted sense, the Hexapoda alone. See Hexapoda.  3. (Zoöl.)  In the most general sense, the Hexapoda, Myriapoda, and Arachnoidea, combined.  Note: The typical Insecta, or hexapod insects, are divided into several orders, viz.: Hymenoptera, as the bees and ants; Diptera, as the common flies and gnats; Aphaniptera, or fleas; Lepidoptera, or moths and butterflies; Neuroptera, as the ant-lions and hellgamite; Coleoptera, or beetles; Hemiptera, as bugs, lice, aphids; Orthoptera, as grasshoppers and cockroaches; Pseudoneuroptera, as the dragon flies and termites; Euplexoptera, or earwings; Thysanura, as the springtails, podura, and lepisma. See these words in the Vocabulary. 

INSECTARY:  A place for keeping living insects.  -- In`sec*ta"ri*um, n. Etym: [L.] 

INSECTATION:  The act of pursuing; pursuit; harassment; persecution. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

INSECTATOR:  A pursuer; a persecutor; a censorious critic. [Obs.] Bailey. 

INSECTED:  Pertaining to, having the nature of, or resembling, an insect. Howell. 

INSECTICIDE:  An agent or preparation for destroying insects; an insect powder.  -- In*sec"ti*ci`dal, a. 

INSECTILE:  Pertaining to, or having the nature of, insects. Bacon. 

INSECTION:  A cutting in; incisure; incision. 

INSECTIVORE:  One of the Insectivora. 

INSECTIVOROUS:  Feeding or subsisting on insects; carnivorous. The term is applied: (a) to  plants which have some special adaptation for catching and digesting insects, as the sundew, Venus's flytrap, Sarracenia, etc. (b) to  the Insectivora, and to many bats, birds, and reptiles. 

INSECTOLOGER:  An entomologist. [Obs.] 

INSECTOLOGY:  Entomology. [Obs.] 

INSECURELY:  In an insecure manner. 

INSECURENESS:  Insecurity. 

INSECUTION:  A following after; close pursuit. [Obs.] Chapman. 

INSEMINATE:  To sow; to impregnate. [Obs.] 

INSEMINATION:  A sowing. [Obs.] 

INSENSATE:  Wanting sensibility; destitute of sense; stupid; foolish. The silence and the calm Of mute, insensate things. Wordsworth. The meddling folly or insensate ambition of statesmen. Buckle. -- In*sen"sate*ly, adv.  -- In*sen"sate*ness, n. 

INSENSE:  To make to understand; to instruct. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

INSENSIBLENESS:  Insensibility. Bp. Hall. 

INSENSIBLY:  In a manner not to be felt or perceived; imperceptibly; gradually. The hills rise insensibly. Addison. 

INSENSITIVE:  Not sensitive; wanting sensation, or wanting acute sensibility. Tillotson. Ruskin. 

INSENSUOUS:  Not sensuous; not pertaining to, affecting, or addressing, the senses. That intermediate door Betwixt the different planes of sensuous form And form insensuous. Mrs. Browning. 

INSENTIENT:  Not sentient; not having perception, or the power of perception. The . . . attributes of an insentient, inert substance. Reid. But there can be nothing like to this sensation in the rose, because it is insentient. Sir W. Hamilton. 

INSEPARABILITY:  The quality or state of being inseparable; inseparableness. Locke. 

INSEPARABLE:  Invariably attached to some word, stem, or root; as, the inseparable particle un-. 

INSEPARABLENESS:  The quality or state of being inseparable; inseparability. Bp. Burnet. 

INSEPARABLY:  In an inseparable manner or condition; so as not to be separable. Bacon. And cleaves through life inseparably close. Cowper. 

INSEPARATE:  Not separate; together; united. Shak. 

INSEPARATELY:  Inseparably. [Obs.] Cranmer. 

INSERT:  To set within something; to put or thrust in; to introduce; to cause to enter, or be included, or contained; as, to insert a scion in a stock; to insert a letter, word, or passage in a composition; to insert an advertisement in a newspaper. These words were very weakly inserted where they will be so liable to misconstruction. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

INSERTED:  Situated upon, attached to, or growing out of, some part; -- said especially of the parts of the flower; as, the calyx, corolla, and stamens of many flowers are inserted upon the receptacle. Gray. 

INSERTION:  The point or part by which a muscle or tendon is attached to the part to be moved; -- in contradistinction to its origin. Epigynous insertion (Bot.), the insertion of stamens upon the ovary.  -- Hypogynous insertion (Bot.), insertion beneath the ovary. 

INSERVE:  To be of use to an end; to serve. [Obs.] 

INSERVIENT:  Conducive; instrumental. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INSESSOR:  One of the Insessores. The group includes most of the common singing birds. 

INSESSORES:  An order of birds, formerly established to include the perching birds, but now generally regarded as an artificial group. 

INSET:  To infix. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

INSET:  One or more separate leaves inserted in a volume before binding; as: (a) A portion of the printed sheet in certain sizes of books which is cut off before folding, and set into the middle of the folded sheet to complete the succession of paging; -- also called offcut. (b) A page or pages of advertisements inserted. 

INSEVERABLE:  Incapable of being severed; indivisible; inseparable. De Quincey. 

INSHADED:  Marked with different shades. W. Browne. 

INSHAVE:  A plane for shaving or dressing the concave or inside faces of barrel staves. 

INSHEATHE:  To insert as in a sheath; to sheathe. Hughes. 

INSHELL:  To hide in a shell. [Obs.] Shak. 

INSHIP:  To embark. [Obs.] Shak. 

INSHORE:  Being near or moving towards the shore; as, inshore fisheries; inshore currents.  -- adv.  Towards the shore; as, the boat was headed inshore. 

INSHRINE:  See Enshrine. 

INSICCATION:  The act or process of drying in. 

INSIDE:  Within the sides of; in the interior; contained within; as, inside a house, book, bottle, etc. 

INSIDE:  The inward parts; entrails; bowels; hence, that which is within; private thoughts and feelings. Here's none but friends; we may speak Our insides freely. Massinger.  3. An inside passenger of a coach or carriage, as distinguished from one upon the outside. [Colloq. Eng.] So down thy hill, romantic Ashbourne, glides The Derby dilly, carrying three insides. Anti-Jacobin. Patent insides or outside, a name give to newspaper sheets printed on one side with general and miscellaneous matter, and furnished wholesale to offices of small newspapers, where the blank pages are filled up with recent and local news. 

INSIDIATE:  To lie in ambush for. [Obs.] Heywood. 

INSIDIATOR:  One who lies in ambush. [Obs.] Barrow. 

INSIGNIFICANCY:  Insignificance. 

INSIGNIFICANTLY:  without significance, importance, or effect; to no purpose. "Anger insignificantly fierce." Cowper. 

INSIGNIFICATIVE:  Not expressing meaning; not significant. 

INSIGNMENT:  A token, mark, or explanation. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

INSIMULATE:  To accuse. [Obs.] Donne. 

INSINCERELY:  Without sincerity. 

INSINCERITY:  The quality of being insincere; want of sincerity, or of being in reality what one appears to be; dissimulation; hypocritical; deceitfulness; hollowness; untrustworthiness; as, the insincerity of a professed friend; the insincerity of professions of regard. What men call policy and knowledge of the world, is commonly no other thing than dissimulation and insincerity. Blair. 

INSINEW:  To strengthen, as with sinews; to invigorate. [Obs.] All members of our cause, . . . That are insinewed to this action. Shak. 

INSINUANT:  Insinuating; insinuative. [Obs.] 

INSINUATING:  Winding, creeping, or flowing in, quietly or stealthily; suggesting; winning favor and confidence insensibly. Milton. His address was courteous, and even insinuating. Prescott. 

INSINUATINGLY:  By insinuation. 

INSINUATOR:  One who, or that which, insinuates. De Foe. 

INSINUATORY:  Insinuative. 

INSIPID:  The quality or state of being insipid; vapidity. "Dryden's lines shine strongly through the insipidity of Tate's." Pope. 

INSIPIDLY:  In an insipid manner; without taste, life, or spirit; flatly. Locke. Sharp. 

INSIPIENCE:  Want of intelligence; stupidity; folly. [R.] Blount. 

INSIPIENT:  Wanting wisdom; stupid; foolish. [R.] Clarendon.  -- n.  An insipient person. [R.] Fryth. 

INSISTENCE:  The quality of insisting, or being urgent or pressing; the act of dwelling upon as of special importance; persistence; urgency. 

INSISTENT:  See Incumbent. 

INSISTENTLY:  In an insistent manner. 

INSISTURE:  A dwelling or standing on something; fixedness; persistence. [Obs.] Shak. 

INSITIENCY:  Freedom from thirst. [Obs.] The insitiency of a camel for traveling in deserts. Grew. 

INSITION:  The insertion of a scion in a stock; ingraftment. Ray.  IN SITU In` si"tu. Etym: [L.]  In its natural position or place; -- said of a rock or fossil, when found in the situation in which it was originally formed or deposited. 

INSNARER:  One who insnares. 

INSNARL:  To make into a snarl or knot; to entangle; to snarl. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

INSOBRIETY:  Want of sobriety, moderation, or calmness; intemperance; drunkenness. 

INSOCIABILITY:  The quality of being insociable; want of sociability; unsociability. [R.] Bp. Warburton. 

INSOCIABLY:  Unsociably. 

INSOCIATE:  Not associate; without a companion; single; solitary; recluse. [Obs.] "The insociate virgin life." B. Jonson. 

INSOLATE:  To dry in, or to expose to, the sun's rays; to ripen or prepare by such exposure. Johnson. 

INSOLE:  The inside sole of a boot or shoe; also, a loose, thin strip of leather, felt, etc., placed 

INSOLENCE:  To insult. [Obs.] Eikon Basilike. 

INSOLENCY:  Insolence. [R.] Evelyn. 

INSOLENTLY:  In an insolent manner. 

INSOLIDITY:  Want of solidity; weakness; as, the insolidity of an argument. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

INSOLUBLENESS:  The quality or state of being insoluble; insolubility. Boyle. 

INSOLVENT:  One who is insolvent; as insolvent debtor; -- in England, before 1861, especially applied to persons not traders. Bouvier. 

INSOMNIA:  Want of sleep; inability to sleep; wakefulness; sleeplessness. 

INSOMNIOUS:  Restless; sleepless. Blount. 

INSOMNOLENCE:  Sleeplessness. 

INSOMUCH:  So; to such a degree; in such wise; -- followed by that or as, and formerly sometimes by both. Cf. Inasmuch. Insomusch as that field is called . . . Aceldama. Acts i. 19. Simonides was an excellent poet, insomuch that he made his fortune by it. L'Estrange. 

INSONOROUS:  Not clear or melodious. 

INSOOTH:  In sooth; truly. [Archaic] 

INSOUCIANCE:  Carelessness; heedlessness; thoughtlessness; unconcern. 

INSOUCIANT:  Careless; heedless; indifferent; unconcerned. J. S. Mill. 

INSOUL:  To set a soul in; reflexively, to fix one's strongest affections on. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. [He] could not but insoul himself in her. Feltham. 

INSPAN:  To yoke or harness, as oxen to a vehicle. [South Africa] 

INSPECT:  Inspection. [Obs.] Thomson. 

INSPECTIVE:  Engaged in inspection; inspecting; involving inspection. 

INSPECTOR:  One who inspects, views, or oversees; one to whom the supervision of any work is committed; one who makes an official view or examination, as a military or civil officer; a superintendent; a supervisor; an overseer. Inspector general (Mil.), a staff officer of an army, whose duties are those of inspection, and embrace everything relative to organization, recruiting, discharge, administration, accountability for money and property, instruction, police, and discipline. 

INSPECTORATE:  Inspectorship. [R.] 

INSPECTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to an inspector or to inspection. [R.] 

INSPECTRESS:  A female inspector. 

INSPERSE:  To sprinkle; to scatter. [Obs.] Bailey. 

INSPERSION:  The act of sprinkling. [Obs.] Chapman. 

INSPEXIMUS:  The first word of ancient charters in England, confirming a grant made by a former king; hence, a royal grant. 

INSPHERE:  To place in, or as in, an orb a sphere. Cf. Ensphere. Bright aërial spirits live insphered In regions mild of calm and serene air. Milton. 

INSPIRABLE:  Capable of being inspired or drawn into the lungs; inhalable; respirable; admitting inspiration. Harvey. 

INSPIRATION:  A supernatural divine influence on the prophets, apostles, or sacred writers, by which they were qualified to communicate moral or religious truth with authority; a supernatural influence which qualifies men to receive and communicate divine truth; also, the truth communicated. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. 2 Tim. iii. 16. The age which we now live in is not an age of inspiration and impulses. Sharp. Plenary inspiration (Theol.), that kind of inspiration which excludes all defect in the utterance of the inspired message.  -- Verbal inspiration (Theol.), that kind of inspiration which extends to the very words and forms of expression of the divine message. 

INSPIRATIONAL:  Pertaining to inspiration. 

INSPIRATIONIST:  One who holds to inspiration. 

INSPIRATOR:  A kind of injector for forcing water by steam. See Injector, n., 2. 

INSPIRATORY:  Pertaining to, or aiding, inspiration; as, the inspiratory muscles. 

INSPIRER:  One who, or that which, inspirer. "Inspirer of that holy flame." Cowper. 

INSPIRING:  Animating; cheering; moving; exhilarating; as, an inspiring or scene. 

INSPIRIT:  To infuse new life or spirit into; to animate; to encourage; to invigorate. The courage of Agamemnon is inspirited by the love of empire and ambition. Pope.  Syn.  -- To enliven; invigorate; exhilarate; animate; cheer; encourage; inspire. 

INSPISSATE:  To thicken or bring to greater consistence, as fluids by evaporation. 

INSPISSATE:  Thick or thickened; inspissated. Greenhill. 

INSPISSATION:  The act or the process of inspissating, or thickening a fluid substance, as by evaporation; also, the state of being so thickened. 

INSTABLE:  Not stable; not standing fast or firm; unstable; prone to change or recede from a purpose; mutable; inconstant. 

INSTABLENESS:  Instability; unstableness. 

INSTALLATION:  The whole of a system of machines, apparatus, and accessories, when set up and arranged for practical working, as in electric lighting, transmission of power, etc. 

INSTAMP:  See Enstamp. 

INSTANCE:  To mention as a case or example; to refer to; to cite; as, to instance a fact. H. Spenser. I shall not instance an abstruse author. Milton. 

INSTANCE:  To give an example. [Obs.] This story doth not only instance in kingdoms, but in families too. Jer. Taylor. 

INSTANCY:  Instance; urgency. [Obs.] Those heavenly precepts which our Lord and Savior with so great instancy gave. Hooker. 

INSTANT:  Instantly. [Poetic] Instant he flew with hospitable haste. Pope. 

INSTANTANEITY:  Quality of being instantaneous. Shenstone. 

INSTANTER:  Immediately; instantly; at once; as, he left instanter. 

INSTAR:  To stud as with stars. [R.] "A golden throne instarred with gems." J. Barlow. 

INSTATE:  To set, place, or establish, as in a rank, office, or condition; to install; to invest; as, to instate a person in greatness or in favor. Shak. 

INSTAURATE:  To renew or renovate. [R.] 

INSTAURATION:  Restoration after decay, lapse, or dilapidation; renewal; repair; renovation; renaissance. Some great catastrophe or . . . instauration. T. Burnet. 

INSTAURATOR:  One who renews or restores to a former condition. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

INSTAURE:  To renew or renovate; to instaurate. [Obs.] Marston. 

INSTEEP:  To steep or soak; to drench. [R.] "In gore he lay insteeped." Shak. 

INSTIGATE:  To goad or urge forward; to set on; to provoke; to incite; -- used chiefly with reference to evil actions; as to instigate one to a crime. He hath only instigated his blackest agents to the very extent of their malignity. Bp. Warburton.  Syn.  -- To stimulate; urge; spur; provoke; tempt; incite; impel; encourage; animate. 

INSTIGATINGLY:  Incitingly; temptingly. 

INSTIGATION:  The act of instigating, or the state of being instigated; incitement; esp. to evil or wickedness. The baseness and villainy that . . . the instigation of the devil could bring the sons of men to. South. 

INSTIGATOR:  One who instigates or incites. Burke. 

INSTILL:  To drop in; to pour in drop by drop; hence, to impart gradually; to infuse slowly; to cause to be imbibed. That starlight dews All silently their tears of love instill. Byron. How hast thou instilled Thy malice into thousands. Milton.  Syn.  -- To infuse; impart; inspire; implant; inculcate; insinuate. 

INSTILLATION:  The of instilling; also, that which is instilled. Johnson. 

INSTILLATOR:  An instiller. [R.] 

INSTILLATORY:  Belonging to instillation. [R.] 

INSTILLER:  One who instills. Skelton. 

INSTILLMENT:  The act of instilling; also, that which is instilled. [Written also instilment.] 

INSTIMULATE:  Not to stimulate; to soothe; to quiet. [Obs.] Cheyne. 

INSTIMULATE:  To stimulate; to excite. [Obs.] Cockerman. 

INSTIMULATION:  Stimulation. 

INSTINCT:  Urged or sas, birds instinct with life. The chariot of paternal deity . . . Itself instinct with spirit, but convoyed By four cherubic shapes. Milton. A noble performance, instinct with sound principle. Brougham. 

INSTINCT:  Specif., the natural, unreasoning, impulse by which an animal is guided to the performance of any action, without of improvement in the method. The resemblance between what originally was a habit, and an instinct becomes so close as not to be distinguished. Darwin.  3. A natural aptitude or knack; a predilection; as, an instinct for order; to be modest by instinct. 

INSTINCT:  To impress, as an animating power, or instinct. [Obs.] Bentley. 

INSTINCTION:  Instinct; incitement; inspiration. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

INSTINCTIVE:  Of or pertaining to instinct; derived from, or prompted by, instinct; of the nature of instinct; determined by natural impulse or propensity; acting or produced without reasoning, deliberation, instruction, or experience; spontaneous. "Instinctive motion." Milton. "Instinctive dread." Cowper. With taste instinctive give Each grace appropriate. Mason. Have we had instinctive intimations of the death of some absent friends Bp. Hall.  Note: The terms instinctive belief, instinctive judgment, instinctive cognition, are expressions not ill adapted to characterize a belief, judgment, or cognition, which, as the result of no anterior consciousness, is, like the products of animal instinct, the intelligent effect of (as far as we are concerned) an unknown cause. Sir H. Hamilton.  Syn.  -- Natural; voluntary; spontaneous; original; innate; inherent; automatic. 

INSTINCTIVELY:  In an instinctive manner; by force of instinct; by natural impulse. 

INSTINCTIVITY:  The quality of being instinctive, or prompted by instinct. [R.] Coleridge. 

INSTIPULATE:  See Exstipulate. 

INSTITUTE:  Established; organized; founded. [Obs.] They have but few laws. For to a people so instruct and institute, very few to suffice. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

INSTITUTE:  To invest with the spiritual charge of a benefice, or the care of souls. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- To originate; begin; commence; establish; found; erect; organize; appoint; ordain. 

INSTITUTE:  The person to whom an estate is first given by destination or limitation. Tomlins. Institutes of medicine, theoretical medicine; that department of medical science which attempts to account philosophically for the various phenomena of health as well as of disease; physiology applied to the practice of medicine. Dunglison. 

INSTITUTER:  An institutor. [R.] 

INSTITUTIST:  A writer or compiler of, or a commentator on, institutes. [R.] Harvey. 

INSTITUTIVELY:  In conformity with an institution. Harrington. 

INSTITUTOR:  A presbyter appointed by the bishop to institute a rector or assistant minister over a parish church. 

INSTOP:  To stop; to close; to make fast; as, to instop the seams. [Obs.] Dryden. 

INSTORE:  To store up; to inclose; to contain. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

INSTRATIFIED:  Interstratified. 

INSTROKE:  An inward stroke; specif., in a steam or other engine, a stroke in which the piston is moving away from the crank shaft; -- opposed to outstroke. 

INSTRUCTER:  See Instructor. 

INSTRUCTIBLE:  Capable of being instructed; teachable; docible. Bacon. 

INSTRUCTIONAL:  Pertaining to, or promoting, instruction; educational. 

INSTRUCTIVE:  Conveying knowledge; serving to instruct or inform; as, experience furnishes very instructive lessons. Addison. In various talk the instructive hours they past. Pope. -- In*struct"ive*ly, adv.  -- In*struct"ive*ness, n. The pregnant instructiveness of the Scripture. Boyle. 

INSTRUCTOR:  One who instructs; one who imparts knowledge to another; a teacher. 

INSTRUCTRESS:  A woman who instructs; a preceptress; a governess. Johnson. 

INSTRUMENT:  A writing, as the means of giving formal expression to some act; a writing expressive of some act, contract, process, as a deed, contract, writ, etc. Burrill.  4. One who, or that which, is made a means, or is caused to serve a purpose; a medium, means, or agent. Or useful serving man and instrument, To any sovereign state. Shak. The bold are but the instruments of the wise. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Tool; implement; utensil; machine; apparatus; channel; agent. 

INSTRUMENT:  To perform upon an instrument; to prepare for an instrument; as, a sonata instrumented for orchestra. 

INSTRUMENTAL:  Pertaining to, made by, or prepared for, an instrument, esp. a musical instrument; as, instrumental music, distinguished from vocal music. "He defended the use of instrumental music in public worship." Macaulay. Sweet voices mix'd with instrumental sounds. Dryden.  3. (Gram.)  Applied to a case expressing means or agency; as, the instrumental case. This is found in Sanskrit as a separate case, but in Greek it was merged into the dative, and in Latin into the ablative. In Old English it was a separate case, but has disappeared, leaving only a few anomalous forms. Instrumental errors, those errors in instrumental measurements, etc., which arise, exclusively from want of mathematical accuracy in an instrument. 

INSTRUMENTALISM:  The view that the sanction of truth is its utility, or that truth is genuine only in so far as it is a valuable instrument. -- In`stru*men"tal*ist, n.  Instrumentalism views truth as simply the value belonging to certain ideas in so far as these ideas are biological functions of our organisms, and psychological functions whereby we direct our choices and attain our successes. Josiah Royce. 

INSTRUMENTALIST:  One who plays upon an instrument of music, as distinguished from a vocalist. 

INSTRUMENTALITY:  The quality or condition of being instrumental; that which is instrumental; anything used as a means; medium; agency. The instrumentality of faith in justification. Bp. Burnet. The discovery of gunpowder developed the science of attack and defense in a new instrumentality. J. H. Newman. 

INSTRUMENTALNESS:  Usefulness or agency, as means to an end; instrumentality. [R.] Hammond. 

INSTRUMENTARY:  Instrumental. [R.] 

INSTRUMENTIST:  A performer on a musical instrument; an instrumentalist. 

INSTYLE:  To style. [Obs.] Crashaw. 

INSUAVITY:  Want of suavity; unpleasantness. [Obs.] Burton. 

INSUBJECTION:  Want of subjection or obedience; a state of disobedience, as to government. 

INSUBMERGIBLE:  Not capable of being submerged; buoyant. [R.] 

INSUBMISSION:  Want of submission; disobedience; noncompliance. 

INSUBORDINATE:  Not submitting to authority; disobedient; rebellious; mutinous 

INSUBORDINATION:  The quality of being insubordinate; disobedience to lawful authority. 

INSUBSTANTIAL:  Unsubstantial; not real or strong. "Insubstantial pageant." [R.] Shak. 

INSUBSTANTIALITY:  Unsubstantiality; unreality. [R.] 

INSUCCATION:  The act of soaking or moistening; maceration; solution in the juice of herbs. [Obs.] Coxe. The medicating and insuccation of seeds. Evelyn. 

INSUCCESS:  Want of success. [R.] Feltham. 

INSUE:  See Ensue, v. i. 

INSUETUDE:  The state or quality of being unaccustomed; absence of use or habit. Absurdities are great or small in proportion to custom or insuetude. Landor. 

INSUFFERABLY:  In a manner or to a degree beyond endurance; intolerably; as, a blaze insufferably bright; a person insufferably proud. 

INSUFFICIENCE:  Insufficiency. Shak. 

INSUFFICIENTLY:  In an insufficient manner or degree; unadequately. 

INSUFFLATE:  To blow upon; to breath upon or into; to use insufflation upon. 

INSUFFLATION:  The act of breathing on or into anything; especially: (a) (R. C. Ch.) The breathing upon a person in the sacrament of baptism to symbolize the inspiration of a new spiritual life. (b) (Med.) The act of blowing (a gas, powder, or vapor) into any cavity of the body. 

INSUITABLE:  Unsuitable. [Obs.] -- In*suit`a*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.] 

INSULAR:  An islander. [R.] Berkeley. 

INSULARLY:  In an insular manner. 

INSULARY:  Insular. [Obs.] Howell. 

INSULATE:  To prevent the transfer o Insulating stool (Elec.), a stool with legs of glass or some other nonconductor of electricity, used for insulating a person or any object placed upon it. 

INSULATED:  Separated from other bodies by means of nonconductors of heat or electricity.  3. (Astron.)  Situated at so great a distance as to be beyond the effect of gravitation; -- said of stars supposed to be so far apart that the affect of their mutual attraction is insensible. C. A. Young. Insulated wire, wire wound with silk, or covered with other nonconducting material, for electrical use. 

INSULATION:  The act of separating a body from others by nonconductors, so as to prevent the transfer of electricity or of heat; also, the state of a body so separated. 

INSULATOR:  The substance or body that insulates; a nonconductor. 

INSULITE:  An insulating material, usually some variety of compressed cellulose, made of sawdust, paper pulp, cotton waste, etc. 

INSULOUS:  Abounding in islands. [R.] 

INSULSE:  Insipid; dull; stupid. [Obs.] Milton. 

INSULSITY:  Insipidity; stupidity; dullness. [Obs.] The insulsity of mortal tongues. Milton. 

INSULTABLE:  Capable of being insulted or affronted. [R.] Emerson. 

INSULTER:  One who insults. Shak. 

INSULTING:  Containing, or characterized by, insult or abuse; tending to insult or affront; as, insulting language, treatment, etc.  -- In*sult"ing*ly, adv.  Syn.  -- Insolent; impertinent; saucy; rude; abusive; contemptuous. See Insolent. 

INSULTMENT:  Insolent treatment; insult. [Obs.] "My speech of insultment ended." Shak. 

INSUME:  To take in; to absorb. [Obs.] 

INSUPERABILITY:  The quality or state of being insuperable; insuperableness. 

INSUPERABLE:  Incapable of being passed over or surmounted; insurmountable; as, insuperable difficulties. And middle natures, how they long to join, Yet never pass the insuperable line Pope. The difficulty is enhanced, or is . . . insuperable. I. Taylor.  Syn.  -- Impassable; insurmountable; unconquerable.  -- In*su"per*a*ble*ness, n.  -- In*su"per*a*bly, adv. 

INSUPPORTABLE:  Incapable of being supported or borne; unendurable; insufferable; intolerable; as, insupportable burdens; insupportable pain.  -- In`sup*port"a*ble*ness, n.  -- In`sup*port"a*bly, adv. 

INSUPPOSABLE:  Incapable of being supposed; not supposable; inconceivable. 

INSUPPRESSIBLE:  That can not be suppressed or concealed; irrepressible. Young.  -- In`sup*press"i*bly, adv. 

INSUPPRESSIVE:  Insuppressible. [Obs.] "The insuppressive mettle of our spirits." Shak. 

INSURABLE:  Capable of being insured against loss, damage, death, etc.; proper to be insured. The French law annuls the latter policies so far as they exceed the insurable interest which remained in the insured at the time of the subscription thereof. Walsh. 

INSURANCER:  One who effects insurance; an insurer; an underwriter. [Obs.] Dryden. hose bold insurancers of deathless fame. Blair. 

INSURANT:  The person insured. Champness. 

INSURE:  To underwrite; to make insurance; as, a company insures at three per cent. 

INSURER:  One who, or that which, insures; the person or company that contracts to indemnify losses for a premium; an underwriter.  INSURGENCE; INSURGENCY In*sur"gence, In*sur"gen*cy, n.  A state of insurrection; an uprising; an insurrection. A moral insurgence in the minds of grave men against the Court of Rome. G. Eliot. 

INSURGENT:  Rising in opposition to civil or political authority, or against an established government; insubordinate; rebellious. "The insurgent provinces." Motley. 

INSURGENT:  A person who rises in revolt against civil authority or an established government; one who openly and actively resists the execution of laws; a rebel.  Syn.  -- See Rebel. 

INSURMOUNTABILITY:  The state or quality of being insurmountable. 

INSURMOUNTABLE:  Incapable of being passed over, surmounted, or overcome; insuperable; as, insurmountable difficulty or obstacle. Locke. Hope thinks nothing difficult; despair tells us that difficulty is insurmountable. I. Watts.  Syn.  -- Insuperable; impassable; invincible. 

INSURMOUNTABLENESS:  The state or quality of being insurmountable; insurmountability. 

INSURMOUNTABLY:  In a manner or to a degree not to be overcome. 

INSURRECTIONAL:  Pertaining to insurrection; consisting in insurrection. 

INSURRECTIONARY:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, insurrection; rebellious; seditious. Their murderous insurrectionary system. Burke. 

INSURRECTIONIST:  One who favors, or takes part in, insurrection; an insurgent. 

INSUSCEPTIBILITY:  Want of susceptibility, or of capacity to feel or perceive. 

INSUSCEPTIBLE:  Not susceptible; not capable of being moved, affected, or impressed; that can not feel, receive, or admit; as, a limb insusceptible of pain; a heart insusceptible of pity; a mind insusceptible to flattery.  -- In`sus*cep`ti*bly adv. 

INSUSCEPTIVE:  Not susceptive or susceptible. [R.] Rambler. 

INSUSURRATION:  The act of whispering into something. [Obs.] Johnson. 

INSWATHE:  To wrap up; to infold; to swathe. Inswathed sometimes in wandering mist. Tennyson. 

INSWEPT:  Narrowed at the forward end; -- said of an automobile frame when the side members are closer together at the forward end than at the rear. 

INTACT:  Untouched, especially by anything that harms, defiles, or the like; uninjured; undefiled; left complete or entire. Buckle. When all external differences have passed away, one element remains intact, unchanged, -- the everlasting basis of our common nature, the human soul. F. W. Robertson.  INTACTIBLE; INTACTABLE In*tac"ti*ble, In*tac"ta*ble, a.  Not perceptible to the touch. 

INTAGLIATED:  Engraved in intaglio; as, an intagliated stone. T. Warton. 

INTAGLIO:  A cutting or engraving; a figure cut into something, as a gem, so as to make a design depressed below the surface of the material; hence, anything so carved or impressed, as a gem, matrix, etc.; -- opposed to cameo. Also used adjectively. 

INTAIL:  See Entail, v. t. 

INTAMINATED:  Uncontaminated. [Obs.] Wood. 

INTANGIBILITY:  The quality or state of being intangible; intangibleness. 

INTANGIBLE:  Not tangible; incapable of being touched; not perceptible to the touch; impalpable; imperceptible. Bp. Wilkins. A corporation is an artificial, invisible, intangible being. Marshall. -- In*tan"gi*ble*ness, n.  -- In*tan"gi*bly, adv. 

INTANGLE:  See Entangle. 

INTASTABLE:  Incapable of being tasted; tasteless; unsavory. [R.] Grew. 

INTEGER:  A complete entity; a whole number, in contradistinction to a fraction or a mixed number. Complex integer (Theory of Numbers), an expression of the form a + bsq. root-1, where a and b are real integers. 

INTEGRABILITY:  The quality of being integrable. 

INTEGRABLE:  Capable of being integrated. 

INTEGRAL:  An expression which, being differentiated, will produce a given differential. See differential Differential, and Integration. Cf. Fluent. Elliptic integral, one of an important class of integrals, occurring in the higher mathematics; -- so called because one of the integrals expresses the length of an arc of an ellipse. 

INTEGRALITY:  Entireness. [Obs.] Whitaker. 

INTEGRALLY:  In an integral manner; wholly; completely; also, by integration. 

INTEGRANT:  Making part of a whole; necessary to constitute an entire thing; integral. Boyle. All these are integrant parts of the republic. Burke. Integrant parts, or particles, of bodies, those smaller particles into which a body may be reduced without loss of its original constitution, as by mechanical division. 

INTEGRATE:  To subject to the operation of integration; to find the integral of. 

INTEGRATION:  The operation of finding the primitive function which has a given function for its differential coefficient. See Integral.  Note: The symbol of integration is summa sum), and the integral is also regarded as the limiting value of the sum of great numbers of differentials, when the magnitude of the differentials decreases, and their number increases indefinitely. See Limit, n. When the summation is made between specified values of the variable, the result is a definite integral, and those values of the variable are the limits of the integral. When the summation is made successively for two or more variables, the result is a multiple integral.  3. In the theory of evolution: The process by which the manifold is compacted into the relatively simple and permanent. It is supposed to alternate with differentiation as an agent in development. 

INTEGRATOR:  That which integrates; esp., an instrument by means of which the area of a figure can be measured directly, or its moment of inertia, or statical moment, etc., be determined. 

INTEGROPALLIAL:  Having the pallial line entire, or without a sinus, as certain bivalve shells. 

INTEGUMATION:  That part of physiology which treats of the integuments of animals and plants. 

INTEGUMENT:  That which naturally invests or covers another thing, as the testa or the tegmen of a seed; specifically (Anat.), a covering which invests the body, as the skin, or a membrane that invests a particular. 

INTEGUMENTARY:  Belonging to, or composed of, integuments. 

INTEGUMENTATION:  The act or process of covering with integuments; the state or manner of being thus covered. 

INTELLECT:  The part or faculty of the human soul by which it knows, as distinguished from the power to feel and to will; sometimes, the capacity for higher forms of knowledge, as distinguished from the power to perceive objects in their relations; the power to judge and comprehend; the thinking faculty; the understanding. 

INTELLECTED:  Endowed with intellect; having intellectual powers or capacities. [R.] In body, and in bristles, they became As swine, yet intellected as before. Cowper. 

INTELLECTION:  A mental act or process; especially: (a) The act of understanding; simple apprehension of ideas; intuition. Bentley. (b) A creation of the mind itself. Hickok. 

INTELLECTIVELY:  In an intellective manner. [R.] "Not intellectivelly to write." Warner. 

INTELLECTUAL:  The intellect or understanding; mental powers or faculties. Her husband, for I view far round, not nigh, Whose higher intellectual more I shun. Milton. I kept her intellectuals in a state of exercise. De Quincey. 

INTELLECTUALITY:  Intellectual powers; possession of intellect; quality of being intellectual. 

INTELLECTUALLY:  In an intellectual manner. 

INTELLIGENCER:  One who, or that which, sends or conveys intelligence or news; a messenger. All the intriguers in foreign politics, all the spies, and all the intelligencers . . . acted solely upon that principle. Burke. 

INTELLIGENCING:  Informing; giving information; talebearing. [Obs.] Shak. That sad intelligencing tyrant. Milton. 

INTELLIGENCY:  Intelligence. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

INTELLIGENTIARY:  One who gives information; an intelligencer. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

INTELLIGENTLY:  In an intelligent manner; with intelligence. 

INTELLIGIBILITY:  The quality or state of being intelligible; clearness; perspicuity; definiteness. 

INTELLIGIBLE:  Capable of being understood or comprehended; as, an intelligible account or description; intelligible pronunciation, writing, etc. The intelligible forms of ancient poets. Coleridge.  Syn.  -- Comprehensible; perspicuous; plain; clear. 

INTELLIGIBLENESS:  The quality or state of being intelligible; intelligibility. Locke. 

INTELLIGIBLY:  In an intelligible manner; so as to be understood; clearly; plainly; as, to write or speak intelligibly.  INTEMERATE; INTEMERATED In*tem"er*ate, In*tem"er*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. intemeratus; pref. in- not + temeratus defiled.]  Pure; undefiled. [Obs.] 

INTEMERATENESS:  The state of being unpolluted; purity. [Obs.] Donne. 

INTEMPERAMENT:  A bad state; as, the intemperament of an ulcerated part. [R.] Harvey. 

INTEMPERANCY:  Intemperance. [Obs.] 

INTEMPERANT:  Intemperate. [Obs.] Such as be intemperant, that is, followers of their naughty appetites and lusts. Udall. 

INTEMPERATE:  To disorder. [Obs.] 

INTEMPERATELY:  In an intemperate manner; immoderately; excessively; without restraint. The people . . . who behaved very unwisely and intemperately on that occasion. Burke. 

INTEMPERATURE:  Intemperateness. [Obs.] Boyle. 

INTEMPESTIVE:  Out of season; untimely. [Obs.] Burton. Intempestive bashfulness gets nothing. Hales. 

INTEMPESTIVELY:  Unseasonably. [Obs.] 

INTEMPESTIVITY:  Unseasonableness; untimeliness. [Obs.] Hales. 

INTENABLE:  Incapable of being held; untenable; not defensible; as, an intenable opinion; an intenable fortress. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton. 

INTENDANT:  One who has the charge, direction, or management of some public business; a superintendent; as, an intendant of marine; an intendant of finance. 

INTENDANT:  Attentive. [Obs.] 

INTENDED:  One with whom marriage is designed; one who is betrothed; an affianced lover. If it were not that I might appear to disparage his intended, . . . I would add that to me she seems to be throwing herself away. Dickens. 

INTENDEDLY:  Intentionally. [R.] Milton. 

INTENDENT:  See Intendant, n. [Obs.] 

INTENDER:  One who intends. Feltham. 

INTENDIMENT:  Attention; consideration; knowledge; understanding. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INTENDMENT:  The true meaning, understanding, or intention of a law, or of any legal instrument. 

INTENERATE:  To make tender or sensitive; to soften.  Fear intenerates the heart. Bp. Hall. So have I seen the little purls of a stream . . . intenerate the stubborn pavement. Jer. Taylor. 

INTENERATE:  Made tender or soft; softened. [Obs.] 

INTENERATION:  The act or process of intenerating, or the state of being intenerated; softening. [R.] Bacon. 

INTENIBLE:  Incapable of holding or containing. [Obs.] This captious and intenible sieve. Shak. 

INTENSATE:  To intensify. [R.] Emerson. 

INTENSATION:  The act or process of intensifying; intensification; climax. [R.] Carlyle. 

INTENSATIVE:  Adding intensity; intensifying. 

INTENSENESS:  The state or quality of being intense; intensity; as, the intenseness of heat or cold; the intenseness of study or thought. 

INTENSIFICATION:  The act or process of intensifying, or of making more intense. 

INTENSIFIER:  One who or that which intensifies or strengthens; in photography, an agent used to intensify the lights or shadows of a picture. 

INTENSIFY:  To render more intense; as, to intensify heat or cold; to intensify colors; to intensify a photographic negative; to intensify animosity. Bacon. How piercing is the sting of pride By want embittered and intensified. Longfellow. 

INTENSIFY:  To become intense, or more intense; to act with increasing power or energy. 

INTENSION:  The collective attributes, qualities, or marks that make up a complex general notion; the comprehension, content, or connotation; - - opposed to extension, extent, or sphere. This law is, that the intension of our knowledge is in the inverse ratio of its extension. Sir W. Hamilton. 

INTENSITIVE:  Increasing the force or intensity of; intensive; as, the intensitive words of a sentence. H. Sweet. 

INTENSITY:  The amount or degree of energy with which a force operates or a cause acts; effectiveness, as estimated by results produced.  3. (Mech.)  The magnitude of a distributed force, as pressure, stress, weight, etc., per unit of surface, or of volume, as the case may be; as, the measure of the intensity of a total stress of forty pounds which is distributed uniformly over a surface of four square inches area is ten pounds per square inch.  4. (Photog.)  The degree or depth of shade in a picture. 

INTENSIVE:  Serving to give force or emphasis; as, an intensive verb or preposition. 

INTENSIVE:  That which intensifies or emphasizes; an intensive verb or word. 

INTENSIVELY:  In an intensive manner; by increase of degree. Abp. Bramhall. 

INTENSIVENESS:  The quality or state of being intensive; intensity. Sir M. Hale. 

INTENT:  The act of turning the mind toward an object; hence, a design; a purpose; intention; meaning; drift; aim. Be thy intents wicked or charitable. Shak. The principal intent of Scripture is to deliver the Hooker. To all intents, and purposes, in all applications or senses; practically; really; virtually; essentially. "He was miserable to all intents and purpose." L'Estrange.  Syn.  -- Design; purpose; intention; meaning; purport; view; drift; object; end; aim; plan. 

INTENTATION:  Intention. [Obs.] 

INTENTION:  Any mental apprehension of an object. First intention (Logic), a conception of a thing formed by the first or direct application of the mind to the individual object; an idea or image; as, man, stone.  -- Second intention (Logic), a conception generalized from first intuition or apprehension already formed by the mind; an abstract notion; especially, a classified notion, as species, genus, whiteness.  -- To heal by the first intention (Surg.), to cicatrize, as a wound, without suppuration.  -- To heal by the second intention (Surg.), to unite after suppuration.  Syn.  -- Design; purpose; object; aim; intent; drift; purport; meaning. See Design. 

INTENTIONAL:  Done by intention or design; intended; designed; as, the act was intentional, not accidental. 

INTENTIONALITY:  The quality or state of being intentional; purpose; design. Coleridge. 

INTENTIONALLY:  In an intentional manner; with intention; by design; of purpose. 

INTENTIONED:  Having designs; -- chiefly used in composition; as, well- intentioned, having good designs; ill-intentioned, having ill designs. 

INTENTIVE:  Attentive; intent. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INTENTIVELY:  Attentively; closely. [Obs.] "Intentively to observe." Holland. 

INTENTIVENESS:  Closeness of attention or application of mind; attentiveness. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

INTENTLY:  In an intent manner; as, the eyes intently fixed.  Syn.  -- Fixedly; steadfastly; earnestly; attentively; sedulously; diligently; eagerly. 

INTENTNESS:  The state or quality of being intent; close application; attention. Extreme solicitude or intentness upon business. South.  INTER- In"ter-. Etym: [L. inter, prep., among, between, a compar. form of in in; akin to intra, intro, within, Skr. antar between, in, and E.in. See In, and cf. Entrails, Interior, Enter-, Exterior.]  A prefix signifying among, between, amid; as, interact, interarticular, intermit. 

INTER:  To deposit and cover in the earth; to bury; to inhume; as, to inter a dead body. Shak. 

INTERACT:  A short act or piece between others, as in a play; an interlude; hence, intermediate employment or time. Chesterfield. 

INTERACT:  To act upon each other; as, two agents mutually interact. Emerson. Tyndall. 

INTERADDITIVE:  Added or placed between the parts of another thing, as a clause inserted parenthetically in a sentence. 

INTERAGENCY:  Intermediate agency. 

INTERAGENT:  An intermediate agent. 

INTERALL:  Entrail or inside. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 

INTERALVEOLAR:  Between alveoli; as, the interalveolar septa between adjacent air cells in the lungs. 

INTERAMBULACRAL:  Of or pertaining to the interambulacra. 

INTERAMBULACRUM:  In echinoderms, one of the areas or zones intervening between two ambulacra. See Illust. of Ambulacrum. 

INTERAMNIAN:  Situated between rivers. [R.] "An interamnian country." J. Bryant. 

INTERANIMATE:  To animate or inspire mutually. [Obs.] Donne. 

INTERARBORATION:  The interweaving of branches of trees. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

INTERARTICULAR:  Situated between joints or articulations; as, interarticular cartilages and ligaments. 

INTERATOMIC:  Between atoms; situated, or acting, between the atoms of bodies; as, interatomic forces. 

INTERAULIC:  Existing between royal courts. [R.] "Interaulic politics." Motley. 

INTERAURICULAR:  Between the auricles; as, the interauricular partition of the heart. 

INTERAXAL:  Situated in an interaxis. Gwilt. 

INTERAXILLARY:  Situated within or between the axils of leaves. 

INTERAXIS:  The space between two axes. See Axis, 6. The doors, windows, niches, and the like, are then placed centrally in the interaxes. Gwilt. 

INTERBASTATION:  Patchwork. [Obs.] Dr. J. Smith. 

INTERBRACHIAL:  Between the arms. 

INTERBRAIN:  See Thalamencephalon. 

INTERBRANCHIAL:  Between the branchiæ. 

INTERBREED:  To breed by crossing different stocks of animals or plants. 

INTERCALAR:  Intercalary. 

INTERCALARY:  Inserted or introduced among others in the calendar; as, an intercalary month, day, etc.; -- now applied particularly to the odd day (Feb. 29) inserted in the calendar of leap year. See Bissextile, n.  2. Introduced or inserted among others; additional; supernumerary. "Intercalary spines." Owen. This intercalary line . . . is made the last of a triplet. Beattie. Intercalary day (Med.), one on which no paroxysm of an intermittent disease occurs. Mayne. 

INTERCALATE:  To insert, as a day or other portion of time, in a calendar.  2. To insert among others, as a verse in a stanza; specif. (Geol.), to introduce as a bed or stratum, between the layers of a regular series of rocks. Beds of fresh-water shells . . . are intercalated and interstratified with the shale. Mantell. 

INTERCALATION:  The insertion of a day, or other portion of time, in a calendar.  2. The insertion or introduction of anything among others, as the insertion of a phrase, line, or verse in a metrical composition; specif. (Geol.), the intrusion of a bed or layer between other layers. Intercalations of fresh-water species in some localities. Mantell. 

INTERCAROTID:  Situated between the external and internal carotid arteries; as, an intercarotid ganglion. 

INTERCARPAL:  Between the carpal bone; as, intercarpal articulations, ligaments. 

INTERCARTILAGINOUS:  Within cartilage; endochondral; as, intercartilaginous ossification. 

INTERCAVERNOUS:  Between the cavernous sinuses; as, the intercavernous sinuses connecting the cavernous sinuses at the base of the brain. 

INTERCEDE:  To be, to come, or to pass, between; to separate. [Obs.] Sir I. Newton. 

INTERCEDENCE:  The act of interceding; intercession; intervention. [R.] Bp. Reynolds. 

INTERCEDENT:  Passing between; mediating; pleading. [R.] -- In`ter*ced"ent*ly, adv. 

INTERCEDER:  One who intercedes; an intercessor; a mediator. Johnson. 

INTERCELLULAR:  Lying between cells or cellules; as, intercellular substance, space, or fluids; intercellular blood channels. 

INTERCENTRAL:  Between centers. Intercentral nerves (Physiol.), those nerves which transmit impulses between nerve centers, as opposed to peripheral fibers, which convey impulses between peripheral parts and nerve centers. 

INTERCENTRUM:  The median of the three elements composing the centra of the vertebræ in some fossil batrachians. 

INTERCEPT:  To include between; as, that part of the intercepted between the points A and B.  Syn.  -- To cut off; stop; catch; seize; obstruct. 

INTERCEPT:  A part cut off or intercepted, as a portion of a line included between two points, or cut off two straight lines or curves. 

INTERCEPTER:  One who, or that which, intercepts. Shak. 

INTERCEPTION:  The act of intercepting; as, interception of a letter; interception of the enemy. 

INTERCEPTIVE:  Intercepting or tending to intercept. 

INTERCESSION:  The act of interceding; mediation; interposition between parties at variance, with a view to reconcilation; prayer, petition, or entreaty in favor of, or (less often) against, another or others. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which can not be uttered. Rom. viii. 26. 

INTERCESSIONAL:  Pertaining to, of the nature of, or characterized by, intercession or entreaty. 

INTERCESSIONATE:  To entreat. [Obs.] 

INTERCESSOR:  A bishop, who, during a vacancy of the see, administers the bishopric till a successor is installed. 

INTERCESSORIAL:  Intercessory. 

INTERCESSORY:  Pertaining to, of the nature of, or characterized by, intercession; interceding; as, intercessory prayer. 

INTERCHAIN:  To link together; to unite closely or firmly, as by a chain. Two bosoms interchained with an oath. Shak. 

INTERCHANGE:  To make an interchange; to alternate. Sir P. Sidney. 

INTERCHANGEABILITY:  The state or quality of being interchangeable; interchangeableness. 

INTERCHANGEMENT:  Mutual transfer; exchange. [Obs.] Shak. 

INTERCHAPTER:  An intervening or inserted chapter. 

INTERCIDENCE:  The act or state of coming or falling between; occurrence; incident. [Obs.] Holland. 

INTERCIDENT:  Falling or coming between; happening accidentally. [Obs.] Boyle. 

INTERCIPIENT:  Intercepting; stopping.  -- n.  One who, or that which, intercepts or stops anything on the passage. Wiseman. 

INTERCISION:  A cutting off, through, or asunder; interruption. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

INTERCITIZENSHIP:  The mutual right to civic privileges, in the different States. Bancroft. 

INTERCLAVICLE:  See Episternum. 

INTERCLOSE:  To shut in; to inclose. [Obs.] 

INTERCLOUD:  To cloud. [R.] Daniel. 

INTERCLUDE:  To shut off or out from a place or course, by something intervening; to intercept; to cut off; to interrupt. Mitford. So all passage of external air into the receiver may be intercluded. Boyle. 

INTERCLUSION:  Interception; a stopping 

INTERCOLLEGIATE:  Existing or carried on between colleges or universities; as, intercollegiate relations, rivalry, games, etc. 

INTERCOLLINE:  Situated between hills; -- applied especially to valleys lying between volcanic cones. 

INTERCOLONIAL:  Between or among colonies; pertaining to the intercourse or mutual relations of colonies; as, intercolonial trade.  -- In`ter*co*lo"ni*al*ly, adv. 

INTERCOLUMNAR:  Between columns or pillars; as, the intercolumnar fibers of Poupart's ligament; an intercolumnar statue. 

INTERCOLUMNIATION:  The clear space between two columns, measured at the bottom of their shafts. Gwilt.  Note: It is customary to measure the intercolumniation in terms of the diameter of the shaft, taken also at the bottom. Different words, derived from the Greek, are in use to denote certain common proportions. They are: Pycnostyle, when the intercolumniation is of one and a half diameters; Systyle, of two diameters; Eustyle, of two and a quarter diameters; Diastyle, of three diameters; Aræostyle, of four or more, and so great that a wooden architrave has to be used instead of stone; Aræosystyle, when the intercolumniations are alternately systyle and aræostyle. 

INTERCOMBAT:  Combat. [Obs.] Daniel. 

INTERCOMING:  The act of coming between; intervention; interference. [Obs.] 

INTERCOMMON:  To graze cattle promiscuously in the commons of each other, as the inhabitants of adjoining townships, manors, etc. 

INTERCOMMONAGE:  The right or privilege of intercommoning. 

INTERCOMMUNICABLE:  Capable of being mutually communicated. 

INTERCOMMUNICATE:  To communicate mutually; to hold mutual communication. 

INTERCOMMUNICATE:  To communicate mutually; to interchange. Holland. 

INTERCOMMUNICATION:  Mutual communication. Owen. 

INTERCOMMUNION:  Mutual communion; as, an intercommunion of deities. Faber. 

INTERCOMMUNITY:  Intercommunication; community of possessions, religion, etc. In consequence of that intercommunity of paganism . . . one nation adopted the gods of another. Bp. Warburton. 

INTERCOMPARISON:  Mutual comparison of corresponding parts.  INTERCONDYLAR; INTERCONDYLOID In`ter*con"dy*lar, In`ter*con"dy*loid, a. (Anat.)  Between condyles; as, the intercondylar fossa or notch of the femur. 

INTERCONNECT:  To join together. 

INTERCONNECTION:  Connection between; mutual connection. 

INTERCONTINENTAL:  Between or among continents; subsisting or carried on between continents; as, intercontinental relations or commerce. 

INTERCONVERTIBLE:  Convertible the one into the other; as, coin and bank notes are interconvertible. 

INTERCOSTAL:  Between the ribs; pertaining to, or produced by, the parts between the ribs; as, intercostal respiration, in which the chest is alternately enlarged and contracted by the intercostal muscles. 

INTERCOURSE:  A This sweet intercourse Of looks and smiles. Milton. Sexual intercourse, sexual or carnal connection; coition.  Syn.  -- Communication; connection; commerce; communion; fellowship; familiarity; acquaintance. 

INTERCROP:  To cultivate by planting simultaneous crops in alternate rows; as, to intercrop an orchard. Also, to use for catch crops at seasons when the ground is not covered by crops of the regular rotation. 

INTERCROP:  A crop grown among or between  the rows of another crop; a catch crop. 

INTERCROSS:  To fertilize by the impregnation of one species or variety by another; to impregnate by a different species or variety. 

INTERCROSS:  The process or result of cross fertilization between different kinds of animals, or different varieties of plants. We have reason to believe that occasional intercrosses take place with all animals and plants. Darwin. 

INTERCRURAL:  Between crura; -- applied especially to the interneural plates in the vertebral column of many cartilaginous fishes. 

INTERCUR:  To intervene; to come or occur in the meantime. [Obs.] Shelton. 

INTERCURRENCE:  A passing or running between; occurrence. Boyle. 

INTERCURRENT:  Something intervening. Holland. 

INTERCUTANEOUS:  Subcutaneous. 

INTERDASH:  To dash between or among; to intersperse. Cowper. 

INTERDEAL:  To intrigue. [Obs.] Daniel. 

INTERDENOMINATIONAL:  Occurring between or among, or common to, different denominations; as, interdenominational fellowship or belief. 

INTERDENTAL:  Formed between the upper and lower teeth; as, interdental consonants. 

INTERDENTIL:  The space between two dentils. Gwilt. 

INTERDEPENDENCE:  Mutual dependence. "The interdependence of virtue and knowledge." M. Arnold. 

INTERDEPENDENCY:  Mutual dependence; as, interdependency of interests. De Quincey. 

INTERDEPENDENT:  Mutually dependent. 

INTERDICT:  To lay under an interdict; to cut off from the enjoyment of religious privileges, as a city, a church, an individual. An archbishop may not only excommunicate and interdict his suffragans, but his vicar general may do the same. Ayliffe. 

INTERDICT:  A prohibition of the pope, by which the clergy or laymen are restrained from performing, or from attending, divine service, or from administering the offices or enjoying the privileges of the church.  3. (Scots Law)  An order of the court of session, having the like purpose and effect with a writ of injunction out of chancery in England and America. 

INTERDICTION:  The act of interdicting; prohibition; prohibiting decree; curse; interdict. The truest issue of thy throne By his own interdiction stands accurst. Shak. 

INTERDICTIVE:  Having the power to prohibit; as, an interdictive sentence. Milton. 

INTERDICTORY:  Belonging to an interdiction; prohibitory. 

INTERDIGITAL:  Between the fingers or toes; as, interdigital space. 

INTERDIGITATE:  To interweave. [R.] 

INTERDIGITATE:  To interlock, as the fingers of two hands that are joined; to be interwoven; to commingle. Owen. 

INTERDIGITATION:  The state of interdigitating; interdigital space. Owen. 

INTERDOME:  The open space between the inner and outer shells of a dome or cupola of masonry. 

INTERDUCE:  An intertie. 

INTEREPIMERAL:  Between the epimeral plates of insects and crustaceans. 

INTEREQUINOCTIAL:  Coming between the equinoxes. Summer and winter I have called interequinoctial intervals. F. Balfour. 

INTERESS:  To interest or affect. [Obs.] Hooker. 

INTERESSE:  Interest. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INTERESTEDNESS:  The state or quality of being interested; selfishness. Richardson. 

INTERESTING:  Engaging the attention; exciting, or adapted to excite, interest, curiosity, or emotion; as, an interesting story; interesting news. Cowper. 

INTERESTINGLY:  In an interesting manner. 

INTERESTINGNESS:  The condition or quality of being interesting. A. Smith. 

INTERFACIAL:  Included between two plane surfaces or faces; as, an interfacial angle. 

INTERFASCICULAR:  Between fascicles or bundles; as, the interfascicular spaces of connective tissue. 

INTERFERANT:  One of the contestants in interference before the Patent Office. [U.S.] 

INTERFERE:  To act reciprocally, so as to augment, diminish, or otherwise affect one another; -- said of waves, rays of light, heat, etc. See Interference, 2.  5. (Patent Law)  To cover the same ground; to claim the same invention.  Syn.  -- To interpose; intermeddle. See Interpose. 

INTERFERENCE:  The mutual influence, under certain conditions, of two streams of light, or series of pulsations of sound, or, generally, two waves or vibrations of any kind, producing certain characteristic phenomena, as colored fringes, dark bands, or darkness, in the case of light, silence or increased intensity in sounds; neutralization or superposition of waves generally.  Note: The term is most commonly applied to light, and the undulatory theory of light affords the proper explanation of the phenomena which are considered to be produced by the superposition of waves, and are thus substantially identical in their origin with the phenomena of heat, sound, waves of water, and the like.  3. (Patent Law)  The act or state of interfering, or of claiming a right to the same invention. Interference figures (Optics), the figures observed when certain sections of crystallized bodies are viewed in converging polarized light; thus, a section of a uniaxial crystal, cut normal to the vertical axis, shows a series of concentric colored rings with a single black cross; -- so called because produced by the interference of luminous waves.  -- Interference fringe. (Optics) See Fringe. 

INTERFERER:  One who interferes. 

INTERFERINGLY:  By or with interference. 

INTERFEROMETER:  An instrument for measuring small movements, distances, or displacements by means of the interference of two beams of light; -- called also refractometer. 

INTERFLOW:  To flow in. [R.] Holland.  INTERFLUENT; INTERFLUOUS In*ter"flu*ent, In*ter"flu*ous, a. Etym: [L. interfluens, p. pr., and interfluus. See Inter-, and Fluent.]  Flowing between or among; intervening. Boyle. 

INTERFOLDED:  Intertwined; interlocked; clasped together. Longfellow. 

INTERFOLIACEOUS:  At the same node with opposite or whorled leaves, but occupying a position between their places of attachment. 

INTERFOLIATE:  To interleave. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

INTERFOLLICULAR:  Between follicles; as, the interfollicular septa in a lymphatic gland. 

INTERFRETTED:  Interlaced; linked together; -- said of charges or bearings. See Fretted. 

INTERFULGENT:  Shining between. 

INTERFUSION:  The act of interfusing, or the state of being interfused. Coleridge. 

INTERGANGLIONIC:  Between and uniting the nervous ganglions; as, interganglionic cords. 

INTERGLOBULAR:  Between globules; -- applied esp. to certain small spaces, surrounded by minute globules, in dentine. 

INTERGRAVE:  To grave or carve between; to engrave in the alternate sections. The work itself of the bases, was intergraven. 3 Kings vii. 28 (Douay version. )  INTERHEMAL; INTERHAEMAL In`ter*he"mal, In`ter*hæ"mal, a. (Anat.)  Between the hemal arches or hemal spines.  -- n.  An interhemal spine or cartilage. 

INTERHYAL:  Of or pertaining to a segment sometimes present at the proximal end of the hyoidean arch.  -- n.  An interhyal ligament or cartilage. 

INTERIM:  A name given to each of three compromises made by the emperor Charles V. of Germany for the sake of harmonizing the connecting opinions of Protestants and Catholics. 

INTERIORITY:  State of being interior. 

INTERIORLY:  Internally; inwardly.  INTERJACENCE; INTERJACENCY In`ter*ja"cence, In`ter*ja"cen*cy, n. Etym: [See Interjacent.]  The state of being between; a coming or lying between or among; intervention; also, that which lies between. England and Scotland is divided only by the interjacency of the Tweed. Sir M. Hale. 

INTERJACENT:  Lying or being between or among; intervening; as, interjacent isles. Sir W. Raleigh. 

INTERJACULATE:  To ejaculate parenthetically. [R.] Thackeray. 

INTERJANGLE:  To make a dissonant, discordant noise one with another; to talk or chatter noisily. [R.] Daniel. 

INTERJECT:  To throw in between; to insert; to interpose. Sir H. Wotton. 

INTERJECT:  To throw one's self between or among; to come between; to interpose. Sir G. Buck. 

INTERJECTION:  A word or form of speech thrown in to express emotion or feeling, as O! Alas! Ha ha! Begone! etc. Compare Exclamation. An interjection implies a meaning which it would require a whole grammatical sentence to expound, and it may be regarded as the rudiment of such a sentence. But it is a confusion of thought to rank it among the parts of speech. Earle. How now! interjections Why, then, some be of laughing, as, ah, ha, he! Shak. 

INTERJECTIONALIZE:  To convert into, or to use as, an interjection. Earle. 

INTERJECTIONALLY:  In an interjectional manner. G. Eliot. 

INTERJECTIONARY:  Interjectional. 

INTERJOIN:  To join mutually; to unite. [R.] Shak. 

INTERJUNCTION:  A mutual joining. [R.] 

INTERKNIT:  To knit together; to unite closely; to intertwine. 

INTERKNOW:  To know mutually. [Obs.] 

INTERKNOWLEDGE:  Mutual knowledge or acquaintance. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INTERLACE:  To unite, as by lacing together; to insert or interpose one thing within another; to intertwine; to interweave. Severed into stripes That interlaced each other. Cowper. The epic way is every where interlaced with dialogue. Dryden. Interlacing arches (Arch.), arches, usually circular, so constructed that their archivolts intersect and seem to be interlaced. 

INTERLACEMENT:  The act of interlacing, or the state of being interlaced; also, that which is interlaced.  INTERLAMELLAR; INTERLAMINAR In`ter*lam"el*lar, In`ter*lam"i*nar, a. (Anat.)  Between lammellæ or laminæ; as, interlamellar spaces. 

INTERLAMINATED:  Placed between, or containing, laminæ or plates. 

INTERLAMINATION:  The state of being interlaminated. 

INTERLAPSE:  The lapse or interval of time between two events. [R.] Harvey. 

INTERLAY:  To lay or place among or between. Daniel. 

INTERLEAF:  A leaf inserted between other leaves; a blank leaf inserted, as in a book. 

INTERLEAVE:  To insert a leaf or leaves in; to bind with blank leaves inserted between the others; as, to interleave a book. 

INTERLIBEL:  To libel mutually. 

INTERLINE:  Contained between lines; written or inserted between lines already written or printed; containing interlineations; as, an interlinear manuscript, translation, etc.  -- In`ter*lin"e*ar*ly, adv. 

INTERLINEARY:  Interlinear.  -- n.  A book containing interlineations. [R.] 

INTERLINING:  Correction or alteration by writing between the lines; interlineation. Bp. Burnet. 

INTERLINK:  To link together; to join, as one chain to another. Dryden. 

INTERLINK:  An intermediate or connecting link. 

INTERLOBAR:  Between lobes; as, the interlobar notch of the liver; the interlobar ducts of a gland. 

INTERLOBULAR:  Between lobules; as, the interlobular branches of the portal vein. 

INTERLOCATION:  A placing or coming between; interposition. 

INTERLOCK:  To unite, embrace, communicate with, or flow into, one another; to be connected in one system; to lock into one another; to interlace firmly. 

INTERLOCK:  To unite by locking or linking together; to secure in place by mutual fastening. My lady with her fingers interlocked. Tennyson. 

INTERLOCUTION:  An intermediate act or decree before final decision. Ayliffe.  3. Hence, intermediate argument or discussion. 

INTERLOCUTOR:  An interlocutory judgment or sentence. 

INTERLOCUTORY:  Intermediate; not final or definitive; made or done during the progress of an action.  Note: An order, sentence, decree, or judgment, given in an intermediate stage between the commencement and termination of a cause, is called interlocutory. 

INTERLOCUTORY:  Interpolated discussion or dialogue. 

INTERLOCUTRICE:  A female interlocutor. 

INTERLOPE:  To run between parties and intercept without right the advantage that one should gain from the other; to traffic without a proper license; to intrude; to forestall others; to intermeddle. 

INTERLOPER:  One who interlopes; one who interlopes; one who unlawfully intrudes upon a property, a station, or an office; one who interferes wrongfully or officiously. The untrained man, . . . the interloper as to the professions. I. Taylor. 

INTERLUCATE:  To let in light upon, as by cutting away branches. [Obs.] 

INTERLUCATION:  Act of thinning a wood to let in light. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

INTERLUCENT:  Shining between. 

INTERLUDE:  A short piece of instrumental music played between the parts of a song or cantata, or the acts of a drama; especially, in church music, a short passage played by the organist between the stanzas of a hymn, or in German chorals after each line. 

INTERLUDED:  Inserted in the manner of an interlude; having or containing interludes. 

INTERLUDER:  An actor who performs in an interlude. B. Jonson. 

INTERLUENCY:  A flowing between; intervening water. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.  INTERLUNAR; INTERLUNARY In`ter*lu"nar, In`ter*lu"na*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + lunar: cf. L. interlunis.]  Belonging or pertaining to the time when the moon, at or near its conjunction with the sun, is invisible. Milton. 

INTERMANDIBULAR:  Between the mandibles; interramal; as, the intermandibular space. 

INTERMARRIAGE:  Connection by marriage; reciprocal marriage; giving and taking in marriage, as between two families, tribes, castes, or nations. 

INTERMARRY:  To become connected by marriage between their members; to give and take mutually in marriage; -- said of families, ranks, castes, etc. About the middle of the fourth century from the building of Rome, it was declared lawful for nobles and plebeians to intermarry. Swift. 

INTERMAXILLA:  See Premaxilla. 

INTERMAXILLARY:  An intermaxilla. 

INTERMEAN:  Something done in the meantime; interlude. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

INTERMEATION:  A flowing between. [Obs.] Bailey. 

INTERMEDDLE:  To meddle with the affairs of others; to meddle officiously; to interpose or interfere improperly; to mix or meddle with. The practice of Spain hath been, by war and by conditions of treaty, to intermeddle with foreign states. Bacon.  Syn.  -- To interpose; interfere. See Interpose. 

INTERMEDDLE:  To intermix; to mingle. [Obs.] Many other adventures are intermeddled. Spenser. 

INTERMEDDLER:  One who meddles with, or intrudes into, the affairs of others. Swift. 

INTERMEDDLESOME:  Inclined or disposed to intermeddle.  -- In`ter*med"dle*some*ness, n. 

INTERMEDDLING:  The act of improperly interfering. Burke. 

INTERMEDE:  A short musical dramatic piece, of a light and pleasing, sometimes a burlesque, character; an interlude introduced between the acts of a play or an opera. 

INTERMEDIACY:  Interposition; intervention. Derham. 

INTERMEDIAE:  The middle pair of tail feathers, or middle rectrices. 

INTERMEDIAL:  Lying between; intervening; intermediate. "Intermedial colors." Evelyn. 

INTERMEDIAN:  Intermediate. [Obs.] 

INTERMEDIARY:  Lying, coming, or done, between; intermediate; as, an intermediary project. Intermediary amputation (Surg.), an amputation for injury, performed after inflammation has set in. 

INTERMEDIARY:  One who, or that which, is intermediate; an interagent; a go- between. 

INTERMEDIATE:  Lying or being in the middle place or degree, or between two extremes; coming or done between; intervening; interposed; interjacent; as, an intermediate space or time; intermediate colors. Intermediate state (Theol.), the state or condition of the soul between the death and the resurrection of the body.  -- Intermediate terms (Math.), the terms of a progression or series between the first and the last (which are called the extremes); the means.  -- Intermediate tie. (Arch.) Same as Intertie. 

INTERMEDIATE:  To come between; to intervene; to interpose. Milton. 

INTERMEDIATELY:  In an intermediate manner; by way of intervention. 

INTERMEDIATION:  The act of coming between; intervention; interposition. Burke. 

INTERMEDIATOR:  A mediator. 

INTERMEDIOUS:  Intermediate. [R.] Cudworth. 

INTERMEDIUM:  The bone or cartilage between the radiale and ulnare in the carpus, and between the tibiale and fibulare in the tarsus. It corresponds to the lunar in the carpus, and to a part of the astragalus in the tarsus of man and most mammals. 

INTERMELL:  To intermeddle; to intermix. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher. 

INTERMEMBRAL:  Between members or limbs; as, intermembral homology, the correspondence of the limbs with each other. 

INTERMEMBRANOUS:  Within or beneath a membrane; as, intermembranous ossification. 

INTERMENT:  The act or ceremony of depositing a dead body in the earth; burial; sepulture; inhumation. T. Warton. 

INTERMENTION:  To mention among other things, or casually or incidentally. [Obs.] 

INTERMESENTERIC:  Within the mesentery; as, the intermesenteric, or aortic, plexus. 

INTERMETACARPAL:  Between the metacarpal bones. 

INTERMETATARSAL:  Between the metatarsal bones. 

INTERMEZZO:  An interlude; an intermede. See Intermede. 

INTERMICATE:  To flash or shine between or among. [R.] Blount. 

INTERMICATION:  A shining between or among. [R.] Smart. 

INTERMIGRATION:  Reciprocal migration; interchange of dwelling place by migration. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

INTERMINABLE:  Without termination; admitting no limit; boundless; endless; wearisomely protracted; as, interminable space or duration; interminable sufferings. That wild interminable waste of waves. Grainger.  Syn.  -- Boundless; endless; limitless; illimitable; immeasurable; infinite; unbounded; unlimited. 

INTERMINABLENESS:  The state of being endless. 

INTERMINABLY:  Without end or limit. 

INTERMINATE:  Endless; as, interminate sleep. Chapman. 

INTERMINATE:  To menace; to threaten. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

INTERMINATED:  Interminable; interminate; endless; unending. [Obs.] Akenside. 

INTERMINATION:  A menace or threat. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

INTERMINE:  To intersect or penetrate with mines. [Obs.] Drayton. 

INTERMINGLE:  To mingle or mix together; to intermix. Hooker. 

INTERMINGLE:  To be mixed or incorporated. Party and faction will intermingle. Swift. 

INTERMISE:  Interference; interposition. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INTERMISSION:  The temporary cessation or subsidence of a fever; the space of time between the paroxysms of a disease. Intermission is an entire cessation, as distinguished from remission, or abatement of fever.  4. Intervention; interposition. [Obs.] Heylin.  Syn.  -- Cessation; interruption; interval; pause; stop; rest; suspension. See Cessation. 

INTERMISSIVE:  Having temporary cessations; not continual; intermittent. "Intermissive miseries." Shak. "Intermissive wars." Howell. 

INTERMIT:  To cause to cease for a time, or at intervals; to interrupt; to suspend. Pray to the gods to intermit the plague. Shak. 

INTERMIT:  To cease for a time or at intervals; to moderate; to be intermittent, as a fever. Pope. 

INTERMITTENCE:  Act or state of intermitting; intermission. Tyndall. 

INTERMITTENT:  Coming and going at intervals; alternating; recurrent; periodic; as, an intermittent fever. Boyle. Intermittent fever (Med.), a disease with fever which recurs at certain intervals; -- applied particularly to fever and ague. See Fever.  -- Intermittent gearing (Mach.), gearing which receives, or produces, intermittent motion.  -- Intermittent springs, springs which flow at intervals, not apparently dependent upon rain or drought. They probably owe their intermittent action to their being connected with natural reservoirs in hills or mountains by passages having the form of a siphon, the water beginning to flow when it has accumulated so as to fill the upper part of the siphon, and ceasing when, by running through it, it has fallen below the orifice of the upper part of the siphon in the reservoir. 

INTERMITTENT:  An intermittent fever or disease. Dunglison. 

INTERMITTENTLY:  With intermissions; in an intermittent manner; intermittingly. 

INTERMITTINGLY:  With intermissions; at intervals. W. Montagu. 

INTERMIX:  To mix together; to intermingle. In yonder spring of roses, intermixed With myrtle, find what to redress till noon. Milton. 

INTERMIX:  To be mixed together; to be intermingled. 

INTERMIXEDLY:  In a mixed manner. 

INTERMOBILITY:  Capacity of things to move among each other; as, the intermobility of fluid particles. 

INTERMODILLION:  The space between two modillions. 

INTERMONTANE:  Between mountains; as, intermontane soil. 

INTERMUNDANE:  Being, between worlds or orbs. [R.] "Intermundane spaces." Locke. 

INTERMUNDIAN:  Intermundane. [Obs.] 

INTERMURAL:  Lying between walls; inclosed by walls. 

INTERMURE:  To wall in; to inclose. [Obs.] Ford. 

INTERMUSCULAR:  Between muscles; as, intermuscular septa. 

INTERMUTATION:  Interchange; mutual or reciprocal change. 

INTERMUTUAL:  Mutual. [Obs.] Daniel.  -- In`ter*mu"tu*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

INTERN:  Internal. [Obs.] Howell. 

INTERN:  To put for safe keeping in the interior of a place or country; to confine to one locality; as, to intern troops which have fled for refuge to a neutral country. 

INTERNAL:  Lying toward the mesial plane; mesial. Internal angle (Geom.), an interior angle. See under Interior.  -- Internal gear (Mach.), a gear in which the teeth project inward from the rim instead of outward.  Syn.  -- Inner; interior; inward; inland; inside.  INTERNAL-COMBUSTION; INTERNAL-COMBUSTION ENGINE In*ter"nal-com*bus"tion, a. (Mach.)  Designating, or pertaining to, any engine (called an Internal- combustion engine) in which the heat or pressure energy necessary to produce motion is developed in the engine cylinder, as by the explosion of a gas, and not in a separate chamber, as in a steam- engine boiler. The gas used may be a fixed gas, or one derived from alcohol, ether, gasoline (petrol), naphtha, oil (petroleum), etc. There are three main classes: (1) gas engines proper, using fixed gases, as coal, blast-furnace, or producer gas; (2) engines using the vapor of a volatile fluid, as the typical gasoline (petrol) engine; (3) oil engines, using either an atomized spray or the vapor (produced by heat) of a comparatively heavy oil, as petroleum or kerosene. In all of these the gas is mixed with a definite amount of air, the charge is composed in the cylinder and is then exploded either by a flame of gas (flame ignition -- now little used), by a hot tube (tube ignition) or the like, by an electric spark (electric ignition, the usual method is gasoline engines, or by the heat of compression, as in the Diesel engine. Gas and oil engines are chiefly of the stationary type. Gasoline engines are largely used for automobile vehicles, boats, etc. Most internal-combustion engines use the Otto (four-stroke) cycle, though many use the two-stroke cycle. They are almost universally trunk engines and single-acting. Because of the intense heat produced by the frequent explosions, the cylinders must be cooled by a water jacket (water-cooled) or by air currents (air cooled) to give the maximum thermodynamic efficiency and to avoid excessive friction or seizing. 

INTERNALITY:  The state of being internal or within; interiority. 

INTERNASAL:  Between the nasal cavities; as, the internasal cartilage. 

INTERNATIONALIZE:  To make international; to cause to affect the mutual relations of two or more nations; as, to internationalize a principle of law, or a philanthropic enterprise. 

INTERNATIONALLY:  In an international manner; from an international point of view. 

INTERNE:  That which is within; the interior. [Poetic] Mrs. Browning.  INTERNECIARY; INTERNECINAL In`ter*ne"cia*ry, In`ter*ne"ci*nal, a.  Internecine. 

INTERNECINE:  Involving, or accompanied by, mutual slaughter; mutually destructive. Internecine quarrels, horrible tumults, stain the streets with blood. Motley. 

INTERNECION:  Mutual slaughter or destruction; massacre. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

INTERNECIVE:  Internecine. [R.] Sydney Smith. 

INTERNECTION:  Intimate connection. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

INTERNEURAL:  Between the neural arches or neural spines.  -- n.  An interneural spine or cartilage. 

INTERNITY:  State of being within; interiority. [R.] H. Brooke. 

INTERNMENT:  Confinement within narrow limits, -- as of foreign troops, to the interior of a country. 

INTERNODAL:  Of or pertaining to internodes; intervening between nodes or joints. 

INTERNODE:  The space between two nodes or points of the stem from which the leaves properly arise. H. Spenser.  2. (Anat.)  A part between two joints; a segment; specifically, one of the phalanges. 

INTERNODIAL:  Internodal. [R.] 

INTERNUNCIAL:  Communicating or transmitting impressions between different parts of the body; -- said of the nervous system. Carpenter. 

INTERNUNCIESS:  A female messenger. [R.] 

INTERNUNCIOSHIP:  The office or function of an internuncio. Richardson. 

INTERNUNCIUS:  Internuncio. 

INTEROCEANIC:  Between oceans; connecting oceans; as, interoceanic communication; an interoceanic canal. 

INTEROCULAR:  Between, or within, the eyes; as, the interocular distance; situated between the eyes, as the antennæ of some insects. 

INTEROPERCULAR:  Of or pertaining to the interoperculum.  -- n.  The interopercular bone. 

INTEROPERCULUM:  The postero-inferior opercular bone, in fishes. 

INTERORBITAL:  Between the orbits; as, the interorbital septum. 

INTEROSCULANT:  Uniting two groups; -- said of certain genera which connect family groups, or of species that connect genera. See Osculant. 

INTEROSCULATE:  To have the character of, or to lie between, two distinct groups.  INTEROSSEAL; INTEROSSEOUS In`ter*os"se*al, In`ter*os"se*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. inter- + osseous: cf. F. interosseux.] (Anat.)  Situated between bones; as, an interosseous ligament. 

INTERPARIETAL:  Between the parietal bones or cartilages; as, the interparietal suture.  -- n.  The interparietal bone or cartilage 

INTERPAUSE:  An intermission. [R.] 

INTERPEAL:  To interpel. [Obs.] 

INTERPEDENCULAR:  Between peduncles; esp., between the peduncles, or crura, of the cerebrum. 

INTERPEL:  To interrupt, break in upon, or intercede with. [Obs.] I am interpelled by many businesses. Howell. 

INTERPELLANT:  Interpelling; interrupting.  -- n.  One who, or that which, interpels. 

INTERPELLATE:  To question imperatively, as a minister, or other executive officer, in explanation of his conduct; -- generally on the part of a legislative body. 

INTERPENETRATE:  To penetrate between or within; to penetrate mutually. It interpenetrates my granite mass. Shelley. 

INTERPENETRATE:  To penetrate each the other; to penetrate between bodies or their parts. Interpenetrating molding (Arch.), in late Gothic architecture, a decoration by means of moldings which seem to pass through solid uprights, transoms, or other members; often, two sets of architectural members penetrating one another, in appearance, as if both had been plastic when they were put together. 

INTERPENETRATION:  The act of penetrating between or within other substances; mutual penetration. Milman. 

INTERPENETRATIVE:  Penetrating among or between other substances; penetrating each the other; mutually penetrative. 

INTERPETALARY:  Between the petals of a flower. 

INTERPETIOLAR:  Being between petioles. Cf. Intrapetiolar. 

INTERPHALANGEAL:  Between phalanges; as, interphalangeal articulations. 

INTERPILASTER:  The interval or space between two pilasters. Elmes. 

INTERPLACE:  To place between or among; as, to interplace a name. [R.] Daniel. 

INTERPLANETARY:  Between planets; as, interplanetary spaces. Boyle. 

INTERPLAY:  Mutual action or influence; interaction; as, the interplay of affection. 

INTERPLEAD:  To plead against each other, or go to trial between themselves, as the claimants in an in an interpleader. See Interpleader. [Written also enterplead.] 

INTERPLEADER:  A proceeding devised to enable a person, of whom the same debt, duty, or thing is claimed adversely by two or more parties, to compel them to litigate the right or title between themselves, and thereby to relieve himself from the suits which they might otherwise bring against him. 

INTERPLEDGE:  To pledge mutually. [R.] 

INTERPOINT:  To point; to mark with stops or pauses; to punctuate. [R.] Her sighs should interpoint her words. Daniel. 

INTERPOLABLE:  That may be interpolated; suitable to be interpolated. A most interpolable clause of one sentence. De Morgan. 

INTERPOLATE:  To fill up intermediate terms of, as of a series, according to the law of the series; to introduce, as a number or quantity, in a partial series, according to the law of that part of the series. 

INTERPOLATION:  The method or operation of finding from a few given terms of a series, as of numbers or observations, other intermediate terms in conformity with the law of the series. 

INTERPOLATOR:  One who interpolates; esp., one who inserts foreign or spurious matter in genuine writings. 

INTERPONE:  To interpose; to insert or place between. [R.] Cudworth. 

INTERPONENT:  One who, or that which, interposes; an interloper, an opponent. [R.] Heywood. 

INTERPOSAL:  The act of interposing; interposition; intervention. 

INTERPOSE:  Interposition. [Obs.] 

INTERPOSER:  One who, or that which, interposes or intervenes; an obstacle or interruption; a mediator or agent between parties. Shak. 

INTERPOSIT:  An intermediate depot or station between one commercial city or country and another. Mitford. 

INTERPOSURE:  Interposition. [Obs.] 

INTERPRET:  To act as an interpreter. Shak. 

INTERPRETABLE:  Admitting of interpretation; capable of being interpreted or explained. 

INTERPRETAMENT:  Interpretation. [Obs.] Milton. 

INTERPRETATION:  An artist's way of expressing his thought or embodying his conception of nature.  5. (Math.)  The act or process of applying general principles or formulæ to the explanation of the results obtained in special cases.  Syn.  -- Explanation; solution; translation; version; sense; exposition; rendering; definition. 

INTERPRETATIVELY:  By interpretation. Ray. 

INTERPRETER:  One who or that which interprets, explains, or expounds; a translator; especially, a person who translates orally between two parties. We think most men's actions to be the interpreters of their thoughts. Locke. 

INTERPRETIVE:  Interpretative. [R.] 

INTERPUBIC:  Between the pubic bones or cartilages; as, the interpubic disk. 

INTERPUNCTION:  The insertion of points between word or sentences; punctuation. 

INTERRADIAL:  Between the radii, or rays; -- in zoölogy, said of certain parts of radiate animals; as, the interradial plates of a starfish. 

INTERRAMAL:  Between rami or branches; esp., between the mandibles, or rami of the lower jaw; intermandibular. 

INTERRECEIVE:  To receive between or within. 

INTERREGENCY:  An interregnum. [Obs.] Blount. 

INTERREGENT:  A person who discharges the royal functions during an interregnum. Holland. 

INTERREIGN:  An interregnum. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INTERRELATED:  Having a mutual or reciprocal relation or parallelism; correlative. 

INTERRELATION:  Mutual or reciprocal relation; correlation. 

INTERRENAL:  Between the kidneys; as, the interrenal body, an organ found in many fishes.  -- n.  The interrenal body. 

INTERREPELLENT:  Mutually repellent. De Quincey. 

INTERRER:  One who inters. 

INTERREX:  An interregent, or a regent. 

INTERROGATE:  To question formally; to question; to examine by asking questions; as, to interrogate a witness. Wilt thou, uncalled, interrogate, Talker! the unreplying Fate Emerson.  Syn.  -- To question; ask. See Question. 

INTERROGATE:  To ask questions. Bacon. 

INTERROGATE:  An interrogation; a question. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

INTERROGATEE:  One who is interrogated. 

INTERROGATIVE:  Denoting a question; expressed in the form of a question; as, an interrogative sentence; an interrogative pronoun. 

INTERROGATIVE:  A word used in asking questions; as, who which why 

INTERROGATIVELY:  In the form of, or by means of, a question; in an interrogative manner. 

INTERROGATOR:  One who asks questions; a questioner. 

INTERROGATORY:  A formal question or inquiry; esp. (Law), a question asked in writing. Macaulay. 

INTERROGATORY:  Containing, expressing, or implying a question; as, an interrogatory sentence. 

INTERRUPT:  Broken; interrupted. [Obs.] Milton. 

INTERRUPTED:  Irregular; -- said of any arrangement whose symmetry is destroyed by local causes, as when leaflets are interposed among the leaves in a pinnate leaf. 

INTERRUPTEDLY:  With breaks or interruptions; discontinuously. Interruptedly pinnate (Bot.), pinnate with small leaflets intermixed with large ones. Gray. 

INTERRUPTER:  A device for opening and closing an electrical circuit; a vibrating spring or tuning fork, arranged to make and break a circuit at rapidly recurring intervals, by the action of the current itself. 

INTERRUPTIVE:  Tending to interrupt; interrupting. "Interruptive forces." H. Bushnell.  -- In`ter*rupt"ive*ly, adv. 

INTERSCAPULAR:  Between the scapulæ or shoulder blades.  2. (Zoöl.)  Pertaining to the upper back, or the part between the shoulders; as, the interscapular feathers. 

INTERSCAPULARS:  The interscapular feathers of a bird. 

INTERSCENDENT:  Having exponents which are radical quantities; -- said of certain powers; as, xsq. root2, or xsq. roota. Interscedent series, a series whose terms are interscendent quantities. Hutton. 

INTERSCIND:  To cut off. [R.] 

INTERSCRIBE:  To write between. [R.] 

INTERSECANT:  Dividing into parts; crossing; intersecting. 

INTERSECT:  To cut into or between; to cut or cross mutually; to divide into parts; as, any two diameters of a circle intersect each other at the center. Lands intersected by a narrow frith Abhor each other. Cowper. 

INTERSECT:  To cut into one another; to meet and cross each other; as, the point where two lines intersect. 

INTERSECTION:  The point or line in which one line or surface cuts another. 

INTERSECTIONAL:  Pertaining to, or formed by, intersections. 

INTERSEMINATE:  To sow between or among. [R.] 

INTERSEPTAL:  Between septa; as, the interseptal spaces or zones, between the transparent, or septal, zones in striated muscle; the interseptal chambers of a shell, or of a seed vessel. 

INTERSERT:  To put in between other things; to insert. [Obs.] Brerewood. 

INTERSERTTION:  The act of interserting, or that which is interserted. [Obs.] Hammond. 

INTERSESAMOID:  Between sesamoid bones; as, intersesamoid ligaments. 

INTERSET:  To set between or among. [R.] 

INTERSHOCK:  To shock mutually. [R.] 

INTERSIDEREAL:  Between or among constellations or stars; interstellar. 

INTERSOCIAL:  Pertaining to the mutual intercourse or relations of persons in society; social. 

INTERSOMNIOUS:  Between the times of sleeping; in an interval of wakefulness. [R.] 

INTERSPACE:  Intervening space. Bp. Hacket. 

INTERSPEECH:  A speech interposed between others. [R.] Blount. 

INTERSPERSION:  The act of interspersing, or the state of being interspersed.  INTERSPINAL; INTERSPINOUS In`ter*spi"nal, In`ter*spi"nous, a. (Anat.)  Between spines; esp., between the spinous processes of the vertebral column. 

INTERSPIRATION:  Spiritual inspiration at separate times, or at intervals. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

INTERSTAPEDIAL:  Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, between the stapes and the mediostapedial.  -- n.  The interstapedial part of the columella. 

INTERSTATE:  Pertaining to the mutual relations of States; existing between, or including, different States; as, interstate commerce. Story. 

INTERSTELLAR:  Between or among the stars; as, interstellar space. Bacon. 

INTERSTELLARY:  Interstellar. 

INTERSTERNAL:  Between the sternal; -- said of certain membranes or parts of insects and crustaceans. 

INTERSTICED:  Provided with interstices; having interstices between; situated at intervals. 

INTERSTINCTIVE:  Distinguishing. [Obs.] Wallis. 

INTERSTITIAL:  Of or pertaining to interstices; intermediate; within the tissues; as, interstitial cavities or spaces in the tissues of animals or plants. 

INTERSTITION:  An intervening period of time; interval. [Obs.] Gower. 

INTERSTRATIFICATION:  Stratification among or between other layers or strata; also, that which is interstratified. 

INTERSTRATIFIED:  Stratified among or between other bodies; as, interstratified rocks. 

INTERSTRATIFY:  To put or insert between other strata. 

INTERTALK:  To converse. [Obs.] Carew. 

INTERTANGLE:  To entangle; to intertwine. "Moss and intertangled vines." Longfellow. 

INTERTARSAL:  Between the tarsal bones; as, the intertarsal articulations. 

INTERTEX:  To intertwine; to weave or bind together. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

INTERTEXTURE:  The act of interweaving, or the state of being interwoven; that which is interwoven. "Knit in nice intertexture." Coleridge. Skirted thick with intertexture firm Of thorny boughs. Cowper. 

INTERTHORACIC:  In the thorax. 

INTERTIE:  In any framed work, a horizontal tie other than sill and plate or other principal ties, securing uprights to one another. 

INTERTISSUED:  Interwoven. [R.] Shak. 

INTERTRAFFIC:  Mutual trade of traffic. 

INTERTRANSPICUOUS:  Transpicuous within or between. [R.] Shelley. 

INTERTRANSVERSE:  Between the transverse processes of the vertebræ. 

INTERTRIGO:  A rubbing or chafing of the skin; especially, an abrasion or excoriation of the skin between folds, as in fat or neglected children. 

INTERTROCHANTERIC:  Between the trochanters of the femur. 

INTERTROPICAL:  Situated between or within the tropics. J. Morse. 

INTERTUBULAR:  Between tubes or tubules; as, intertubular cells; intertubular substance. 

INTERTWINE:  To unite by twining one with another; to entangle; to interlace. Milton. 

INTERTWINE:  To be twined or twisted together; to become mutually involved or enfolded. 

INTERTWINE:  The act intertwining, or the state of being intertwined. Coleridge. 

INTERTWININGLY:  By intertwining or being intertwined. 

INTERTWIST:  To twist together one with another; to intertwine. 

INTERTWISTINGLY:  By intertwisting, or being intertwisted.  INTERUNGULAR; INTERUNGULATE In`ter*un"gu*lar, In`ter*un"gu*late, a. (Anat.)  Between ungulæ; as, interungular glands. 

INTERURBAN:  Going between, or connecting, cities or towns; as, interurban electric railways. 

INTERVAL:  Difference in pitch between any two tones. At intervals, coming or happening with intervals between; now and then. "And Miriam watch'd and dozed at intervals." Tennyson.  -- Augmented interval (Mus.), an interval increased by half a step or half a tone.  INTERVAL; INTERVALE In"ter*val, In"ter*vale, n.  A tract of low ground between hills, or along the banks of a stream, usually alluvial land, enriched by the overflowings of the river, or by fertilizing deposits of earth from the adjacent hills. Cf. Bottom, n., 7. [Local, U. S.] The woody intervale just beyond the marshy land. The Century. 

INTERVALLUM:  An interval. [R.] And a' shall laugh without intervallums. Shak. In one of these intervalla. Chillingworth. 

INTERVARY:  To alter or vary between; to change. [Obs.] Rush. 

INTERVEINED:  Intersected, as with veins. 

INTERVENE:  To come between. [R.] Self-sown woodlands of birch, alder, etc., intervening the different estates. De Quincey. 

INTERVENE:  A coming between; intervention; meeting. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

INTERVENER:  One who intervenes; especially (Law), a person who assumes a part in a suit between others.  INTERVENIENCE; INTERVENIENCY In`ter*ven"ience, In`ter*ven"ien*cy, n.  Intervention; interposition. [R.] 

INTERVENIENT:  Being or coming between; intercedent; interposed. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INTERVENT:  To thwart; to obstruct. [Obs.] Chapman. 

INTERVENTION:  The act by which a third person, to protect his own interest, interposes and becomes a party to a suit pending between other parties. 

INTERVENTOR:  One who intervenes; a mediator; especially (Eccles. Hist.), a person designated by a church to reconcile parties, and unite them in the choice of officers. Coleman. 

INTERVENTRICULAR:  Between the ventricles; as, the interventricular partition of the heart. 

INTERVENUE:  Interposition. [Obs.] Sir H. Blount. 

INTERVERT:  To turn to another course or use. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

INTERVERTEBRAL:  Between vertebræ.  -- In`ter*ver"te*bral*ly, adv. 

INTERVIEW:  To have an interview with; to question or converse with, especially for the purpose of obtaining information for publication. [Recent] 

INTERVIEWER:  One who interviews; especially, one who obtains an interview with another for the purpose of eliciting his opinions or obtaining information for publication. It would have made him the prince of interviewers in these days. Leslie Stephen. 

INTERVIEWING:  The act or custom of holding an interview or interviews. An article on interviewing in the "Nation" of January 28, 1869, . . . was the first formal notice of the practice under that name. The American. 

INTERVISIBLE:  Mutually visible, or in sight, the one from the other, as stations. 

INTERVISIT:  To exchange visits. [R.] Evelyn. 

INTERVITAL:  Between two lives. [R.] Through all its [the spirit's] intervital gloom. Tennyson. 

INTERVOCALIC:  Situated between vowels; immediately preceded and followed by vowel sounds, as, p in occupy, d in idea, etc. 

INTERVOLUTION:  The state of being intervolved or coiled up; a convolution; as, the intervolutions of a snake. Hawthorne. 

INTERVOLVE:  To involve one within another; to twist or coil together. Milton. 

INTERWISH:  To wish mutually in regarded to each other. [Obs.] Donne. 

INTERWORKING:  The act of working in together; interweaving. Milton. 

INTERWORLD:  A world between other worlds. Holland.  INTERWOVE; INTERWOVEN In`ter*wove", In`ter*wov"en,  imp. & p. p. of Interweave. 

INTERWREATHE:  To weave into a wreath; to intertwine. [R.] Lovelace. 

INTESTABLE:  Not capable of making a will; not legally qualified or competent to make a testament. Blackstone. 

INTESTACY:  The state of being intestate, or of dying without having made a valid will. Blackstone. 

INTESTATE:  A person who dies without making a valid will. Blackstone. 

INTESTINAL:  Of or pertaining to the intestines of an animal; as, the intestinal tube; intestinal digestion; intestinal ferments. Intestinal canal. Same as Intestine, n.  -- Intestinal worm (Zoöl.), any species of helminth living in the intestinal canal of any animal. The species are numerous. 

INTESTINE:  That part of the alimentary canal between the stomach and the anus. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus.  2. pl.  The bowels; entrails; viscera. Large intestine (Human Anat. & Med.), the lower portion of the bowel, terminating at the anus. It is adapted for the retention of fecal matter, being shorter, broader, and less convoluted than the small intestine; it consists of three parts, the cæcum, colon, and rectum.  -- Small intestine (Human Anat. & Med.), the upper portion of the bowel, in which the process of digestion is practically completed. It is narrow and contorted, and consists of three parts, the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. 

INTEXT:  The text of a book. [R.] Herrick. 

INTEXTINE:  A thin membrane existing in the pollen grains of some plants, and situated between the extine and the intine, as in . 

INTEXTURED:  Inwrought; woven in. 

INTHIRST:  To make thirsty. [Obs.] 

INTHRALL:  To reduce to bondage or servitude; to make a thrall, slave, vassal, or captive of; to enslave. She soothes, but never can inthrall my mind. Prior. 

INTHRALLMENT:  Act of inthralling, or state of being inthralled; servitude; bondage; vassalage. 

INTHRONE:  Same as Enthrone. 

INTHRONG:  To throng or collect together. [R.] Fairfax. 

INTHRONIZATION:  Enthronement. Bp. Warburton. 

INTHRONIZE:  To enthrone. 

INTICE:  See Entice. 

INTIMACY:  The state of being intimate; close familiarity or association; nearness in friendship.  Syn.  -- Acquaintance; familiarity; fellowship; friendship. See Acquaintance. 

INTIMATE:  An intimate friend or associate; a confidant. Gov. of the Tongue. 

INTIMATELY:  In an intimate manner. 

INTIME:  Inward; internal; intimate. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 

INTIMIDATE:  To make timid or fearful; to inspire of affect with fear; to deter, as by threats; to dishearten; to abash. Now guilt, once harbored in the conscious breast, Intimidates the brave, degrades the great. Johnson.  Syn.  -- To dishearten; dispirit; abash; deter; frighten; terrify; daunt; cow. 

INTIMIDATION:  The act of making timid or fearful or of deterring by threats; the state of being intimidated; as, the voters were kept from the polls by intimidation. The king carried his measures in Parliament by intimidation. Paley. 

INTIMIDATORY:  Tending or serving to intimidate. 

INTINCTION:  A method or practice of the administration of the sacrament by dipping the bread or wafer in the wine and administering both together. 

INTINCTIVITY:  The want of the quality of coloring or tingeing other bodies. Kirwan. 

INTINE:  A transparent, extensible membrane of extreme tenuity, which forms the innermost coating of grains of pollen.  INTIRE; INTIRELY In*tire", a., In*tire"ly, adv.  See Entire, a., Entirely, adv. 

INTITLE:  See Entitle. 

INTITULE:  To entitle; to give a title to. Selden. 

INTO:  To the inside of; within. It is used in a variety of applications.  1. Expressing entrance, or a passing from the outside of a thing to its interior parts; -- following verbs expressing motion; as, come into the house; go into the church; one stream falls or runs into another; water enters into the fine vessels of plants.  2. Expressing penetration beyond the outside or surface, or access to the inside, or contents; as, to look into a letter or book; to look into an apartment.  3. Indicating insertion; as, to infuse more spirit or animation into a composition.  4. Denoting inclusion; as, put these ideas into other words.  5. Indicating the passing of a thing from one form, condition, or state to another; as, compound substances may be resolved into others which are more simple; ice is convertible into water, and water into vapor; men are more easily drawn than forced into compliance; we may reduce many distinct substances into one mass; men are led by evidence into belief of truth, and are often enticed into the commission of crimes'into; she burst into tears; children are sometimes frightened into fits; all persons are liable to be seduced into error and folly.  Note: Compare In. 

INTOLERABILITY:  The quality of being intolerable; intolerableness. [R.] 

INTOLERANCY:  Intolerance. Bailey. 

INTOLERANT:  An intolerant person; a bigot. 

INTOLERANTLY:  In an intolerant manner. 

INTOLERATED:  Not tolerated. 

INTOLERATING:  Intolerant. [R.] 

INTOLERATION:  Intolerance; want of toleration; refusal to tolerate a difference of opinion. 

INTOMB:  To place in a tomb; to bury; to entomb. See Entomb. 

INTOMBMENT:  See Entombment. 

INTONATE:  To thunder. [Obs.] Bailey. 

INTONATE:  To sound the tones of the musical scale; to practice the sol- fa.  2. To modulate the voice in a musical, sonorous, and measured manner, as in reading the liturgy; to intone. 

INTONATE:  To utter in a musical or sonorous manner; to chant; as, to intonate the liturgy. 

INTONATION:  A thundering; thunder. [Obs.] Bailey. 

INTONE:  To utter with a musical or prolonged note or tone; to chant; as, to intone the church service. 

INTONE:  To utter a prolonged tone or a deep, protracted sound; to speak or recite in a measured, sonorous manner; to intonate. Pope. 

INTORSION:  The bending or twining of any part of a plant toward one side or the other, or in any direction from the vertical. 

INTORT:  To twist in and out; to twine; to wreathe; to wind; to wring. Pope. 

INTORTION:  See Intorsion. 

INTOXICANT:  That which intoxicates; an intoxicating agent; as, alcohol, opium, and laughing gas are intoxicants. 

INTOXICATEDNESS:  The state of being intoxicated; intoxication; drunkenness. [R.] 

INTOXICATING:  Producing intoxication; as, intoxicating liquors. 

INTOXICATION:  A poisoning, as by a spirituous or a narcotic substance.  2. The state of being intoxicated or drunk; inebriation; ebriety; drunkenness; the act of intoxicating or making drunk.  2. A high excitement of mind; an elation which rises to enthusiasm, frenzy, or madness. That secret intoxication of pleasure. Spectator.  Syn.  -- Drunkenness; inebriation; inebriety; ebriety; infatuation; delirium. See Drunkenness.  INTRA- In"tra-. Etym: [L. intra, prep., within, on the inside; akin to inter. See Inter-.]  A prefix signifying in, within, interior; as, intraocular, within the eyeball; intramarginal. 

INTRAAXILLARY:  Situated below the point where a leaf joins the stem. 

INTRACELLULAR:  Within a cell; as, the intracellular movements seen in the pigment cells, the salivary cells, and in the protoplasm of some vegetable cells. 

INTRACOLIC:  Within the colon; as, the intracolic valve. 

INTRACRANIAL:  Within the cranium or skull. Sir W. Hamilton. 

INTRACTABILITY:  The quality of being intractable; intractableness. Bp. Hurd. 

INTRACTABLE:  Not tractable; not easily governed, managed, or directed; indisposed to be taught, disciplined, or tamed; violent; stubborn; obstinate; refractory; as, an intractable child.  Syn.  -- Stubborn; perverse; obstinate; refractory; cross; unmanageable; unruly; headstrong; violent; ungovernable; unteachable.  -- In*tract"a*ble*ness, n.  -- In*tract"a*bly, adv. 

INTRACTILE:  Not tractile; incapable of being drawn out or extended. Bacon. 

INTRADOS:  The interior curve of an arch; esp., the inner or lower curved face of the whole body of voussoirs taken together. See Extrados. 

INTRAFOLIACEOUS:  Growing immediately above, or in front of, a leaf; as, intrafoliaceous stipules. 

INTRAFUSION:  The act of pouring into a vessel; specif. (Med.), the operation of introducing a substance into a blood vessel; as, intrafusion of blood. 

INTRALOBULAR:  Within lobules; as, the intralobular branches of the hepatic veins. 

INTRAMARGINAL:  Situated within the margin. Loudon. 

INTRAMERCURIAL:  Between the planet Mercury and the sun; -- as, the hypothetical Vulcan is intramercurial. 

INTRAMOLECULAR:  Between molecules; situated, or acting, between the molecules of bodies. 

INTRAMUNDANE:  Being within the material world; -- opposed to extramundane. 

INTRAMURAL:  Being within the substance of the walls of an organ; as, intramural pregnancy. 

INTRANQUILLITY:  Unquietness; restlessness. Sir W. Temple. 

INTRANSCALENT:  Impervious to heat; adiathermic. 

INTRANSGRESSIBLE:  Incapable of being transgressed; not to be passes over or crossed. Holland. 

INTRANSIENT:  Not transient; remaining; permanent. Killingbeck. 

INTRANSIGENT:  Refusing compromise; uncompromising; irreconcilable. Lond. Sat. Rev. 

INTRANSIGENTES:  The extreme radicals; the party of the irreconcilables. 

INTRANSITIVE:  Not transitive; not passing over tas, an intransitive verb, e. g., the bird flies; the dog runs.  Note: Intransitive verbs have no passive form. Some verbs which appear at first sight to be intransitive are in reality, or were originally, transitive verbs with a reflexive or other object omitted; as, he keeps (i. e., himself) aloof from danger. Intransitive verbs may take a noun of kindred signification for a cognate object; as, he died the death of a hero; he dreamed a dream. Some intransitive verbs, by the addition of a preposition, become transitive, and so admit of a passive voice; as, the man laughed at; he was laughed at by the man. 

INTRANSITIVELY:  Without an object following; in the manner of an intransitive verb.  IN TRANSITU In` tran"si*tu. Etym: [L.] (Law)  In transit; during passage; as, goods in transitu. 

INTRANSMISSIBLE:  Not capable of being transmitted. 

INTRANSMUTABILITY:  The quality of being intransmutable. 

INTRANSMUTABLE:  Not capable of being transmuted or changed into another substance. 

INTRANT:  Entering; penetrating. 

INTRANT:  One who enters; especially, a person entering upon some office or station. Hume. 

INTRANUCLEAR:  Within the nucleus of a cell; as. the intranuclear network of fibrils, seen in the first stages of karyokinesis. 

INTRAP:  See Entrap. Spenser. 

INTRAPARIETAL:  Situated or occurring within an inclosure; shut off from public sight; private; secluded; retired. I have no Turkish proclivities, and I do not think that, after all, impaling is preferable as a mode of capital punishment to intraparietal hanging. Roll 

INTRAPETIOLAR:  Situated between the petiole and the stem; -- said of the pair of stipules at the base of a petiole when united by those margins next the petiole, thus seeming to form a single stipule between the petiole and the stem or branch; -- often confounded with interpetiolar, from which it differs essentially in meaning. 

INTRATERRITORIAL:  Within the territory or a territory. 

INTRATHORACIC:  Within the thora 

INTRATROPICAL:  Within the tropics. 

INTRAUTERINE:  Within the uterus or womb; as, intrauterine hemorrhage. 

INTRAVALVULAR:  Between valves. 

INTRAVENOUS:  Within the veins. 

INTRAVENTRICULAR:  Within or between ventricles. 

INTREASURE:  To lay up, as in a treasury; to hoard. [Obs.] Shak. 

INTREAT:  See Entreat. Spenser. 

INTREATABLE:  Not to be entreated; inexorable. 

INTREATANCE:  Entreaty. [Obs.] Holland. 

INTREATFUL:  Full of entreaty. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INTRENCH:  To invade; to encroach; to infringe or trespass; to enter on, and take possession of, that which belongs to another; -- usually followed by on or upon; as, the king was charged with intrenching on the rights of the nobles, and the nobles were accused of intrenching on the prerogative of the crown. We are not to intrench upon truth in any conversation, but least of all with children. Locke. 

INTRENCHANT:  Not to be gashed or marked with furrows. [Obs.] As easy mayest thou the intrenchant air With thy keen sword impress, as make me bleed. Shak. 

INTRENCHMENT:  Any defensive work consisting of at least a trench or ditch and a parapet made from the earth thrown up in making such a ditch. On our side, we have thrown up intrenchments on Winter and Prospect Hills. Washington.  3. Any defense or protection.  4. An encroachment or infringement. The slight intrenchment upon individual freedom. Southey. 

INTREPID:  Not trembling or shaking with fear; fearless; bold; brave; undaunted; courageous; as, an intrepid soldier; intrepid spirit.  Syn.  -- Fearless; dauntless; resolute; brave; courageous; daring; valiant; heroic; doughty. 

INTREPIDITY:  The quality or state of being intrepid; fearless bravery; courage; resoluteness; valor. Sir Roger had acquitted himself of two or three sentences with a look of much business and great intrepidity. Addison.  Syn.  -- Courage; heroism; bravery; fortitude; gallantry; valor. See Courage, Heroism. 

INTREPIDLY:  In an intrepid manner; courageously; resolutely. 

INTRICABLE:  Entangling. [Obs.] Shelton. 

INTRICACY:  The state or quality of being intricate or entangled; perplexity; involution; complication; complexity; that which is intricate or involved; as, the intricacy of a knot; the intricacy of accounts; the intricacy of a cause in controversy; the intricacy of a plot. Freed from intricacies, taught to live The easiest way. Milton. 

INTRICATE:  Entangled; involved; perplexed; complicated; difficult to understand, follow, arrange, or adjust; as, intricate machinery, labyrinths, accounts, plots, etc. His style was fit to convey the most intricate business to the understanding with the utmost clearness. Addison. The nature of man is intricate. Burke.  Syn.  -- Intricate, Complex, Complicated. A thing is complex when it is made up of parts; it is complicated when those parts are so many, or so arranged, as to make it difficult to grasp them; it is intricate when it has numerous windings and confused involutions which it is hard to follow out. What is complex must be resolved into its parts; what is complicated must be drawn out and developed; what is intricate must be unraveled. 

INTRICATE:  To entangle; to involve; to make perplexing. [Obs.] It makes men troublesome, and intricates all wise discourses. Jer. Taylor. 

INTRICATELY:  In an intricate manner. 

INTRICATENESS:  The state or quality of being intricate; intricacy. 

INTRICATION:  Entanglement. [Obs.] 

INTRIGANTE:  A female intriguer. 

INTRIGUE:  To fill with artifice and duplicity; to complicate; to embarrass. [Obs.] How doth it [sin] perplex and intrique the whole course of your lives! Dr. J. Scott. 

INTRIGUER:  One who intrigues. 

INTRIGUERY:  Arts or practice of intrigue. 

INTRIGUINGLY:  By means of, or in the manner of, intrigue. 

INTRINSE:  Tightly drawn; or (perhaps) intricate. [Very rare] Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain, Which are too intrinse to unloose. Shak. 

INTRINSIC:  Included wholly within an organ or limb, as certain groups of muscles; -- opposed to extrinsic. Intrinsic energy of a body (Physics), the work it can do in virtue of its actual condition, without any supply of energy from without.  -- Intrinsic equation of a curve (Geom.), the equation which expresses the relation which the length of a curve, measured from a given point of it, to a movable point, has to the angle which the tangent to the curve at the movable point makes with a fixed line.  -- Intrinsic value. See the Note under Value, n.  Syn.  -- Inherent; innate; natural; real; genuine. 

INTRINSIC:  A genuine quality. [Obs.] Warburton. 

INTRINSICALITY:  The quality of 

INTRINSICALLY:  Internally; A lie is a thing absolutely and intrinsically evil. South. 

INTRINSICALNESS:  The quality of being intrinsical; intrinsicality. 

INTRINSICATE:  Intricate. [Obs.] Shak.  INTRO- In"tro-. Etym: [L. intro, adv., inwardly, within. See Inter-.]  A prefix signifying within, into, in, inward; as, introduce, introreception, introthoracic. 

INTROCESSION:  A depression, or inward sinking of parts. 

INTRODUCEMENT:  Introduction. [Obs.] 

INTRODUCER:  One who, or that which, introduces. 

INTRODUCT:  To introduce. [Obs.] 

INTRODUCTIVE:  Serving to introduce; introductory.  -- In`tro*duc"tive*ly, adv. 

INTRODUCTOR:  An introducer. [Obs.] 

INTRODUCTORILY:  By way of introduction. 

INTRODUCTORY:  Serving to introduce something else; leading to the main subject or business; preliminary; prefatory; as, introductory proceedings; an introductory discourse. 

INTRODUCTRESS:  A female introducer. 

INTROFLEXED:  Flexed or bent inward. 

INTROGRESSION:  The act of going in; entrance. Blount. 

INTROIT:  An anthem or psalm sung before the Communion service.  4. Any composition of vocal music appropriate to the opening of church services. 

INTROMISSION:  An intermeddling with the affairs of another, either on legal grounds or without authority. 

INTROMIT:  To intermeddle with the effects or goods of another. 

INTROMITTENT:  Used in copulation; -- said of the external reproductive organs of the males of many animals, and sometimes of those of the females. 

INTROMITTER:  One who intromits. 

INTROPRESSION:  Pressure acting within. [R.] 

INTRORECEPTION:  The act of admitting into or within. Hammond. 

INTRORSE:  Turning or facing inward, or toward the axis of the part to which it belongs. Gray. 

INTROSPECT:  To look into or within; to view the inside of. Bailey. 

INTROSPECTION:  A view of the inside or interior; a looking inward; specifically, the act or process of self-examination, or inspection of one's own thoughts and feelings; the cognition which the mind has of its own acts and states; self-consciousness; reflection. I was forced to make an introspection into my own mind. Dryden. 

INTROSPECTIONIST:  One given to the introspective method of examining the phenomena of the soul. 

INTROSUME:  To draw in; to swallow. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

INTROSUSCEPTION:  Same as Intussusception. 

INTROVENIENT:  Coming in together; entering; commingling. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

INTROVERSION:  The act of introverting, or the state of being introverted; the act of turning the mind inward. Berkeley. 

INTRUDE:  To thrust one's self in; to come or go in without invitation, permission, or welcome; to encroach; to trespass; as, to intrude on families at unseasonable hours; to intrude on the lands of another. Thy wit wants edge And manners, to intrude where I am graced. Shak. Some thoughts rise and intrude upon us, while we shun them; others fly from us, when we would hold them. I. Watts. 

INTRUDE:  The cause to enter or force a way, as into the crevices of rocks.  Syn.  -- To obtrude; encroach; infringe; intrench; trespass. See Obtrude. 

INTRUDED:  Same as Intrusive. 

INTRUDER:  One who intrudes; one who thrusts himself in, or enters without right, or without leave or welcome; a trespasser. They were all strangers and intruders. Locke. 

INTRUDRESS:  A female intruder. 

INTRUNK:  To inclose as in a trunk; to incase. [R.] Ford. 

INTRUSION:  The penetrating of one rock, while in a plastic or metal state, into the cavities of another.  3. (Law)  The entry of a stranger, after a particular estate or freehold is determined, before the person who holds in remainder or reversion has taken possession.  4. (Scotch Ch.)  The settlement of a minister over 3 congregation without their consent. 

INTRUSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to intrusion. 

INTRUSIONIST:  One who intrudes; especially, one who favors the appointment of a clergyman to a parish, by a patron, against the wishes of the parishioners. 

INTRUSIVE:  Apt to intrude; characterized by intrusion; entering without right or welcome. Intrusive rocks (Geol.), rocks which have been forced, while in a plastic or melted state, into the cavities or between the cracks or layers of other rocks. The term is sometimes used as equivalent to plutonic rocks. It is then contrasted with effusive or volcanic rocks.  -- In*tru"sive*ly, adv.  -- In*tru"sive*ness, n. 

INTRUST:  To deliver (something) to another in trust; to deliver to (another) something in trust; to commit or surrender (something) to another with a certain confidence regarding his care, use, or disposal of it; as, to intrust a servant with one's money or intrust money or goods to a servant.  Syn.  -- To commit; consign; confide. See Commit. 

INTUBATION:  The introduction of a tube into an organ to keep it open, as into the larynx in croup. 

INTUITIONAL:  Pertaining to, or derived from, intuition; characterized by intuition; perceived by intuition; intuitive. 

INTUITIONALISM:  The doctrine that the perception or recognition of primary truth is intuitive, or direct and immediate; -- opposed to sensationalism, and experientialism. 

INTUITIONALIST:  One who holds the doctrine of intuitionalism. 

INTUITIONISM:  Same as Intuitionalism. 

INTUITIONIST:  Same as Intuitionalist. Bain. 

INTUITIVELY:  In an intuitive manner. 

INTUITIVISM:  The doctrine that the ideas of right and wrong are intuitive. J. Grote. 

INTUMESCE:  To enlarge or expand with heat; to swell; specifically, to swell up or bubble up under the action of heat, as before the blowpipe. In a higher heat, it intumesces, and melts into a yellowish black mass. Kirwan. 

INTUMESCENT:  Swelling up; expanding. 

INTUMULATED:  Unburied. [Obs.] 

INTUNE:  To intone. Cf. Entune. 

INTURBIDATE:  To render turbid; to darken; to confuse. [R.] The confusion of ideas and conceptions under the same term painfully inturbidates his theology. Coleridge. 

INTURGESCENCE:  A swelling; the act of swelling, or state of being swelled. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INTUSE:  A bruise; a contusion. [Obs.] Spenser. 

INTUSSUSCEPTED:  Received into some other thing or part, as a sword into a sheath; invaginated. 

INTUSSUSCEPTION:  The abnormal reception or slipping of a part of a tube, by inversion and descent, within a contiguous part of it; specifically, the reception or slipping of the upper part of the small intestine into the lower; introsusception; invagination. Dunglison.  3. (Bot.)  The interposition of new particles of formative material among those already existing, as in a cell wall, or in a starch grain.  4. (Physiol.)  The act of taking foreign matter, as food, into a living body; the process of nutrition, by which dead matter is absorbed by the living organism, and ultimately converted into the organized substance of its various tissues and organs. Dead bodies increase by apposition; living bodies by intrussusception. McKendrick. 

INTWINE:  To twine or twist into, or together; to wreathe; as, a wreath of flowers intwined. [Written also entwine.] 

INTWINE:  To be or to become intwined. 

INTWINEMENT:  The act of twinning, or the state of being intwined. 

INTWIST:  To twist into or together; to interweave. [Written also entwist.] 

INUENDO:  See Innuendo. 

INULIN:  A substance of very wide occurrence. It is found dissolved in the sap of the roots and rhizomes of many composite and other plants, as Inula, Helianthus, Campanula, etc., and is extracted by solution as a tasteless, white, semicrystalline substance, resembling starch, with which it is isomeric. It is intermediate in nature between starch and sugar. Called also dahlin, helenin, alantin, etc. 

INULOID:  A substance resembling inulin, found in the unripe bulbs of the dahila. 

INUMBRATE:  To shade; to darken. [Obs.] 

INUNCTED:  Anointed. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

INUNCTION:  The act of anointing, or the state of being anointed; unction; specifically (Med.), the rubbing of ointments into the pores of the skin, by which medicinal agents contained in them, such as mercury, iodide of potash, etc., are absorbed. 

INUNCTUOSITY:  The want of unctuosity; freedom from greasiness or oiliness; as, the inunctuosity of porcelain clay. Kirwan. 

INUNDANT:  Overflowing. [R.] Shenstone. 

INUNDERSTANDING:  Void of understanding. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

INURBANE:  Uncivil; unpolished; rude. M. Arnold.  -- In`ur*bane"ly, adv.  -- In`ur*bane"ness, n. 

INURBANITY:  Want of urbanity or courtesy; unpolished manners or deportment; inurbaneness; rudeness. Bp. Hall. 

INURE:  To apply in use; to train; to discipline; to use or accustom till use gives little or no pain or inconvenience; to harden; to habituate; to practice habitually. "To inure our prompt obedience." Milton. He . . . did inure them to speak little. Sir T. North. Inured and exercised in learning. Robynson (More's Utopia). The poor, inured to drudgery and distress. Cowper. 

INURE:  To pass into use; to take or have effect; to be applied; to serve to the use or benefit of; as, a gift of lands inures to the heirs. [Written also enure.] 

INUREMENT:  Use; practice; discipline; habit; custom. 

INURN:  To put in an urn, as the ashes of the dead; hence, to bury; to intomb. The sepulcher Wherein we saw thee quietly inurned. Shak. 

INUSITATE:  Unusual. [R.] Bramhall. 

INUSITATION:  Want of use; disuse. [R.] Paley. 

INUST:  Burnt in. [Obs.] 

INUSTION:  The act of burning or branding. [Obs.] T. Adams. 

INUTILE:  Useless; unprofitable. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INUTILITY:  Uselessness; the quality of being unprofitable; unprofitableness; as, the inutility of vain speculations and visionary projects. 

INUTTERABLE:  Unutterable; inexpressible. Milton.  IN VACUO In` vac"u*o. Etym: [L.] (Physics)  In a vacuum; in empty space; as, experiments in vacuo. 

INVADE:  To make an invasion. Brougham. 

INVADER:  One who invades; an assailant; an encroacher; an intruder. 

INVAGINATE:  To insert as in a sheath; to pr  INVAGINATE; INVAGINATED In*vag"i*nate, In*vag"i*na`ted, a. (Biol.) (a) Sheathed. (b) Having one portion of a hollow organ drawn back within another portion. 

INVAGINATION:  The condition of an invaginated organ or part.  2. (Biol.)  One of the methods by which the various germinal layers of the ovum are differentiated.  Note: In embolic invagination, one half of the blastosphere is pushed in towards the other half, producing an embryonic form known as a gastrula.  -- In epibolic invagination, a phenomenon in the development of some invertebrate ova, the epiblast appears to grow over or around the hypoblast. 

INVALESCENCE:  Strength; health. [Obs.] 

INVALETUDINARY:  Wanting health; valetudinary. [R.] 

INVALID:  Having no force, effect, or efficacy; void; null; as, an invalid contract or agreement. 

INVALID:  A person who is weak and infirm; one who is disabled for active service; especially, one in chronic ill health. 

INVALID:  Not well; feeble; infirm; sickly; as, he had an invalid daughter. 

INVALIDATE:  To render invalid; to weaken or lessen the force of; to destroy the authority of; to render of no force or effect; to overthrow; as, to invalidate an agreement or argument. 

INVALIDATION:  The act of inavlidating, or the state of being invalidated. So many invalidations of their right. Burke. 

INVALIDE:  See Invalid, n. 

INVALIDISM:  The condition of an invalid; sickness; infirmity. 

INVALIDNESS:  Invalidity; as, the invalidness of reasoning. 

INVALOROUS:  Not valorous; cowardly. 

INVALUABLE:  Valuable beyond estimation; inestimable; priceless; precious. 

INVALUABLY:  Inestimably. Bp. Hall. 

INVALUED:  Inestimable. [R.] Drayton. 

INVARIABILITY:  The quality of being invariable; invariableness; constancy; uniformity. 

INVARIABLE:  Not given to variation or change; unalterable; unchangeable; always uniform. Physical laws which are invariable. I. Taylor. -- In*va"ri*a*ble*ness, n.  -- In*va"ri*a*bly, adv. 

INVARIABLE:  An invariable quantity; a constant. 

INVARIANCE:  The property of remaining invariable under prescribed or implied conditions. J. J. Sylvester. 

INVARIANT:  An invariable quantity; specifically, a function of the coefficients of one or more forms, which remains unaltered, when these undergo suitable linear transformations. J. J. Sylvester. 

INVASIVE:  Tending to invade; characterized by invasion; aggressive. "Invasive war." Hoole. 

INVECT:  To inveigh. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

INVECTED:  Having a border or outline composed of semicircles with the convexity outward; -- the opposite of engrailed. 

INVECTION:  An inveighing against; invective. [Obs.] Fulke. 

INVECTIVE:  Characterized by invection; critical; denunciatory; satirical; abusive; railing. 

INVECTIVE:  An expression which inveighs or rails against a person; a severe or violent censure or reproach; something uttered or written, intended to cast opprobrium, censure, or reproach on another; a harsh or reproachful accusation; -- followed by against, having reference to the person or thing affected; as an invective against tyranny. The world will be able to judge of his [Junius'] motives for writing such famous invectives. Sir W. Draper.  Syn.  -- Abuse; censure; reproach; satire; sarcasm; railing; diatribe. See Abuse. 

INVECTIVELY:  In an invective manner. Shak. 

INVEIGH:  To declaim or rail (against some person or thing); to utter censorious and bitter language; to attack with harsh criticism or reproach, either spoken or written; to use invectives; -- with against; as, to inveigh against character, conduct, manners, customs, morals, a law, an abuse. All men inveighed against him; all men, except court vassals, opposed him. Milton. The artificial life against which we inveighed. Hawthorne. 

INVEIGHER:  One who inveighs. 

INVEIGLE:  To lead astray as if blind; to persuade to something evil by deceptive arts or flattery; to entice; to insnare; to seduce; to wheedle. Yet have they many baits and guileful spells To inveigle and invite the un unwary sense. Milton. 

INVEIGLEMENT:  The act of inveigling, or the state of being inveigled; that which inveigles; enticement; seduction. South. 

INVEIGLER:  One who inveigles. 

INVEIL:  To cover, as with a vail. W. Browne. 

INVENDIBILITY:  The quality of being invendible; invendibleness; unsalableness. 

INVENDIBLE:  Not vendible or salable. Jefferson.  -- In*vend"i*ble*ness, n. 

INVENOM:  See Envenom. 

INVENTER:  One who invents. 

INVENTFUL:  Full of invention. J. Gifford. 

INVENTIBLE:  Capable of being invented. 

INVENTIBLENESS:  Quality of being inventible. 

INVENTION:  The exercise of the imagination in selecting and treating a theme, or more commonly in contriving the arrangement of a piece, or the method of presenting its parts. Invention of the cross (Eccl.), a festival celebrated May 3d, in honor of the finding of our Savior's cross by St. Helena. 

INVENTIOUS:  Inventive. [Obs.] 

INVENTIVE:  Able and apt to invent; quick at contrivance; ready at expedients; as, an inventive head or genius. Dryden.  -- In*vent"ive*ly, adv.  -- In*vent"ive*ness, n. 

INVENTOR:  One who invents or finds out something new; a contriver; especially, one who invents mechanical devices. 

INVENTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to an inventory.  -- In`ven*to"ri*al*ly, adv. Shak. 

INVENTORY:  An account, catalogue, or schedule, made by an executor or administrator, of all the goods and chattels, and sometimes of the real estate, of a deceased person; a list of the property of which a person or estate is found to be possessed; hence, an itemized list of goods or valuables, with their estimated worth; specifically, the annual account of stock taken in any business. There take an inventory of all I have. Shak.  Syn.  -- List; register; schedule; catalogue. See List. 

INVENTORY:  To make an inventory of; to make a list, catalogue, or schedule of; to insert or register in an account of goods; as, a merchant inventories his stock. I will give out divers schedules of my beauty; it shall be inventoried, and every particle and utensil labeled. Shak. 

INVENTRESS:  A woman who invents. Dryden. 

INVERACITY:  Want of veracity. 

INVERISIMILITUDE:  Want of verisimilitude or likelihood; improbability.  INVERNESS; INVERNESS CAPE In`ver*ness", n., or In`ver*ness" cape".  A kind of full sleeveless cape, fitting closely about the neck.  Robert's wind-blown head and tall form wrapped in an Inverness cape. Mrs. Humphry Ward. 

INVERSE:  Inverted; having a position or mode of attachment the reverse of that which is usual.  3. (Math.)  Opposite in nature and effect; -- said with reference to any two operations, which, when both are performed in succession upon any quantity, reproduce that quantity; as, multiplication is the inverse operation to division. The symbol of an inverse operation is the symbol of the direct operation with -1 as an index. Thus sin-1 x means the arc whose sine is x. Inverse figures (Geom.), two figures, such that each point of either figure is inverse to a corresponding point in the order figure.  -- Inverse points (Geom.), two points lying on a line drawn from the center of a fixed circle or sphere, and so related that the product of their distances from the center of the circle or sphere is equal to the square of the radius.  -- Inverse, or Reciprocal, ratio (Math.), the ratio of the reciprocals of two quantities.  -- Inverse, or Reciprocal, proportion, an equality between a direct ratio and a reciprocal ratio; thus, 4 : 2 : : , or 4 : 2 : : 3 : 6, inversely. 

INVERSE:  That which is inverse. Thus the course of human study is the inverse of the course of things in nature. Tatham. 

INVERSELY:  In an inverse order or manner; by inversion; -- opposed to directly. Inversely proportional. See Directly proportional, under Directly, and Inversion, 4. 

INVERSION:  A movement in tactics by which the order of companies in line is inverted, the right being on the left, the left on the right, and so on.  4. (Math.)  A change in the order of the terms of a proportion, so that the second takes the place of the first, and the fourth of the third.  5. (Geom.)  A peculiar method of transformation, in which a figure is replaced by its inverse figure. Propositions that are true for the original figure thus furnish new propositions that are true in the inverse figure. See Inverse figures, under Inverse.  6. (Gram.)  A change of the usual order of words or phrases; as, "of all vices, impurity is one of the most detestable," instead of, "impurity is one of the most detestable of all vices."  7. (Rhet.)  A method of reasoning in which the orator shows that arguments advanced by his adversary in opposition to him are really favorable to his cause.  8. (Mus.) (a) Said of intervals, when the lower tone is placed an octave higher, so that fifths become fourths, thirds sixths, etc. (b) Said of a chord, when one of its notes, other than its root, is made the bass. (c) Said of a subject, or phrase, when the intervals of which it consists are repeated in the contrary direction, rising instead of falling, or vice versa. (d) Said of double counterpoint, when an upper and a lower part change places.  9. (Geol.)  The folding back of strata upon themselves, as by upheaval, in such a manner that the order of succession appears to be reversed.  10. (Chem.)  The act or process by which cane sugar (sucrose), under the action of heat and acids or ferments (as diastase), is broken or split up into grape sugar (dextrose), and fruit sugar (levulose); also, less properly, the process by which starch is converted into grape sugar (dextrose).  Note: The terms invert and inversion, in this sense, owe their meaning to the fact that the plane of polarization of light, which is rotated to the right by cane sugar, is turned toward the left by levulose. 

INVERT:  To change the position of; -- said of tones which form a chord, or parts which compose harmony.  3. To divert; to convert to a wrong use. [Obs.] Knolles.  4. (Chem.)  To convert; to reverse; to decompose by, or subject to, inversion. See Inversion, n., 10. 

INVERT:  To undergo inversion, as sugar. 

INVERT:  Subjected to the process of inversion; inverted; converted; as, invert sugar. Invert sugar (Chem.), a variety of sugar, consisting of a mixture of dextrose and levulose, found naturally in fruits, and produced artificially by the inversion of cane sugar (sucrose); also, less properly, the grape sugar or dextrose obtained from starch. See Inversion, Dextrose, Levulose, and Sugar. 

INVERT:  An inverted arch. 

INVERTEBRAL:  Same as Invertebrate. 

INVERTEBRATA:  A comprehensive division of the animal kingdom, including all except the Vertebrata. 

INVERTEBRATE:  Destitute of a backbone; having no vertebræ; of or pertaining to the Invertebrata.  -- n.  One of the Invertebrata. Age of invertebrates. See Age, and Silurian. 

INVERTEBRATED:  Having no backbone; invertebrate. 

INVERTED:  Situated apparently in reverse order, as strata when folded back upon themselves by upheaval. Inverted arch (Arch.), an arch placed with crown downward; -- much used in foundations. 

INVERTEDLY:  In an inverted order. Derham. 

INVERTIBLE:  Capable of being changed or converted; as, invertible sugar. 

INVERTIBLE:  Incapable of being turned or changed. An indurate and invertible conscience. Cranmer. 

INVERTIN:  An unorganized ferment which causes cane sugar to take up a molecule of water and be converted into invert sugar. 

INVEST:  To inclose; to surround of hem in with troops, so as to intercept succors of men and provisions and prevent escape; to lay siege to; as, to invest a town.  7. To lay out (money or capital) in business with the as, to invest money in bank stock. 

INVEST:  To make an investment; as, to invest in stocks; -- usually followed by in. 

INVESTIENT:  Covering; clothing. [R.] Woodward. 

INVESTIGABLE:  Capable or susceptible of being investigated; admitting research. Hooker. 

INVESTIGABLE:  Unsearchable; inscrutable. [Obs.] So unsearchable the judgment and so investigable the ways thereof. Bale. 

INVESTIGATE:  To follow up step by step by patient inquiry or observation; to trace or track mentally; to search into; to inquire and examine into with care and accuracy; to find out by careful inquisition; as, to investigate the causes of natural phenomena. 

INVESTIGATE:  To pursue a course of investigation and study; to make investigation. 

INVESTIGATION:  The act of investigating; the process of inquiring into or following up; research; study; inquiry, esp. patient or thorough inquiry or examination; as, the investigations of the philosopher and the mathematician; the investigations of the judge, the moralist. 

INVESTIGATIVE:  Given to investigation; inquisitive; curious; searching. 

INVESTIGATOR:  One who searches diligently into a subject. 

INVESTITURE:  Livery of seizin. The grant of land or a feud was perfected by the ceremony oinvestiture, or open delivery of possession. Blackstone.  3. That with which anyone is invested or clothed; investment; clothing; covering. While we yet have on Our gross investiture of mortal weeds. Trench. 

INVESTIVE:  Investing. [R.] Mir. for Mag. 

INVESTMENT:  The act of surrounding, blocking up, or besieging by an armed force, or the state of being so surrounded. The capitulation was signed by the commander of the fort within six days after its investments. Marshall.  4. The laying out of money in the purchase of some species of property; the amount of money invested, or that in which money is invested. Before the investment could be made, a change of the market might render it ineligible. A. Hamilton. An investment in ink, paper, and steel pens. Hawthorne. 

INVESTOR:  One who invests. 

INVESTURE:  Investiture; investment. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 

INVESTURE:  To clothe; to invest; to install. [Obs.] "Monks . . . investured in their copes." Fuller. 

INVETERATE:  To fix and settle by long continuance. [Obs.] Bacon. 

INVETERATELY:  In an inveterate manner or degree. "Inveterately tough." Hawthorne. 

INVETERATENESS:  Inveteracy. Sir T. Browne. 

INVETERATION:  The act of making inveterate. [R.] Bailey. 

INVICT:  Invincible. [Obs.] Joye. 

INVIDIOUS:  Want of vigilance; neglect of watching; carelessness. 

INVIGOR:  To invigorate. [Obs.] 

INVIGORATE:  To give vigor to; to strengthen; to animate; to give life and energy to. Christian graces and virtues they can not be, unless fed, invigorated, and animated by universal charity. Atterbury.  Syn.  -- To refresh; animate; exhilarate; stimulate. 

INVIGORATION:  The act of invigorating, or the state of being invigorated. 

INVILE:  To render vile. [Obs.] Daniel. 

INVILLAGED:  Turned into, or reduced to, a village. [Obs.] W. Browne. 

INVINCIBILITY:  The quality or state of being invincible; invincibleness. 

INVINCIBLE:  Incapable of being conquered, overcome, or subdued; unconquerable; insuperable; as, an invincible army, or obstacle. Lead forth to battle these my sons Invincible. Milton. -- In*vin"ci*ble*ness, n.  -- In*vin"ci*bly, adv. 

INVIOLABILITY:  The quality or state of being inviolable; inviolableness. 

INVIOLABLENESS:  The quality or state of being inviolable; as, the inviolableness of divine justice. 

INVIOLABLY:  Without violation. 

INVIOLACY:  The state or quality of being inviolate; as, the inviolacy of an oath.  INVIOLATE; INVIOLATED In*vi"o*late, In*vi"o*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. inviolatus. See In- not, and Violate.]  1. Not violated; uninjured; unhurt; unbroken. His fortune of arms was still inviolate. Bacon.  2. Not corrupted, defiled, or profaned; chaste; pure. "Inviolate truth." Denham. There chaste Alceste lives inviolate. Spenser. 

INVIOLATELY:  In an inviolate manner. 

INVIOLATENESS:  The state of being inviolate. 

INVIOUS:  Untrodden. [R.] Hudibras.  -- In"vi*ous*ness, n. [R.] 

INVIRILE:  Deficient in manhood; unmanly; effeminate. Lowell. 

INVIRILITY:  Absence of virility or manhood; effeminacy. Prynne. 

INVISCATE:  To daub or catch with glue or birdlime; to entangle with glutinous matter. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

INVISCERATE:  To breed; to nourish. [R.] W. Montagu. 

INVISCERATE:  Deep-seated; internal. [R.] W. Montagu. 

INVISIBILITY:  The state or quality of being invisible; also, that which is invisible. "Atoms and invisibilities." Landor. 

INVISIBLE:  Incapable of being seen; not perceptible by vision; not visible. To us invisible, or dimly seen In these thy lowest works. Milton. Invisible bird (Zoöl.), a small, shy singing bird (Myadestes sibilons), of St. Vincent Islands.  -- Invisible green, a very dark shade of green, approaching to black, and liable to be mistaken for it. 

INVISIBLE:  One of those (as in the 16th century) who denied the visibility of the church. Shipley. 

INVISIBLENESS:  The quality or state of being invisible; invisibility. 

INVISIBLY:  In an invisible manner, Denham. 

INVISION:  Want of vision or of the power of seeing. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

INVITATORY:  Using or containing invitations. The "Venite" [Psalm xcv.], which is also called the invitatory psalm. Hook. 

INVITATORY:  That which invites; specifically, the invitatory psalm, or a part of it used in worship. 

INVITE:  To give invitation. Milton. 

INVITEMENT:  Invitation. [Obs.] Chapman. 

INVITER:  One who, or that which, invites. 

INVITIATE:  Not vitiated. Lowell. 

INVITING:  Alluring; tempting; as, an inviting amusement or prospect. Nothing is so easy and inviting as the retort of abuse and sarcasm. W. Irving. -- In*vit"ing*ly, adv.  -- In*vit"ing*ness, n. Jer. Taylor. 

INVITRIFIABLE:  Not admitting of being vitrified, or converted into glass. Kirwan. 

INVOCATE:  To invoke; to call on, or for, in supplication; to implore. If Dagon be thy god, Go to his temple, invocate his aid. Milton. 

INVOCATION:  A call or summons; especially, a judicial call, demand, or order; as, the invocation of papers or evidence into court. 

INVOCATORY:  Making or containing invocation; invoking. 

INVOICE:  A written account of the particulars of merchandise shipped or sent to a purchaser, consignee, factor, etc., with the value or prices and charges annexed. Wharton.  2. The lot or set of goods as shipped or received; as, the merchant receives a large invoice of goods. 

INVOICE:  To make a written list or account of, as goods to be sent to a consignee; to insert in a priced list; to write or enter in an invoice. Goods, wares, and merchandise imported from Norway, and invoiced in the current dollar of Norway. Madison. 

INVOKE:  To call on for aid or protection; to invite earnestly or solemnly; to summon; to address in prayer; to solicit or demand by invocation; to implore; as, to invoke the Supreme Being, or to invoke His and blessing. Go, my dread lord, to your great grandsire's tomb, . . . Invoke his warlike spirit. Shak. 

INVOLUCEL:  A partial, secondary, or small involucre. See Illust. of Involucre. 

INVOLUCELLATE:  Furnished with involucels. 

INVOLUCELLUM:  See Involucel. 

INVOLUCRAL:  Pertaining to, possessing, or like, an involucrum.  INVOLUCRATE; INVOLUCRATED In`vo*lu"crate, In`vo*lu"cra*ted, a. (Bot.)  Having an involucre; involucred. 

INVOLUCRED:  Having an involucre, as umbels, heads, etc. Martyn. 

INVOLUCRET:  An involucel. 

INVOLUCRUM:  See Involucre.  2. (Zoöl.)  A sheath which surrounds the base of the lasso cells in the Siphonophora. 

INVOLUNTARILY:  In an involuntary manner; not voluntarily; not intentionally or willingly. 

INVOLUNTARINESS:  The quality or state of being involuntary; unwillingness; automatism. 

INVOLUNTARY:  Rolled inward from the edges; -- said of leaves in vernation, or of the petals of flowers in æstivation. Gray.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) Turned inward at the margin, as the exterior lip of the Cyprea. (b) Rolled inward spirally. 

INVOLUTE:  A curve traced by the end of a string wound upon another curve, or unwound from it; -- called also evolvent. See Evolute. 

INVOLUTION:  The insertion of one or more clauses between the subject and the verb, in a way that involves or complicates the construction.  5. (Math.)  The act or process of raising a quantity to any power assigned; the multiplication of a quantity into itself a given number of times; -- the reverse of evolution.  6. (Geom.)  The relation which exists between three or more sets of points, a.a', b.b', c.c', so related to a point O on the line, that the product Oa.Oa' = Ob.Ob' = Oc.Oc' is constant. Sets of lines or surfaces possessing corresponding properties may be in involution.  7. (Med.)  The return of an enlarged part or organ to its normal size, as of the uterus after pregnancy. 

INVOLVE:  To raise to any assigned power; to multiply, as a quantity, into itself a given number of times; as, a quantity involved to the third or fourth power.  Syn.  -- To imply; include; implicate; complicate; entangle; embarrass; overwhelm.  -- To Involve, Imply. Imply is opposed to express, or set forth; thus, an implied engagement is one fairly to be understood from the words used or the circumstances of the case, though not set forth in form. Involve goes beyond the mere interpretation of things into their necessary relations; and hence, if one thing involves another, it so contains it that the two must go together by an indissoluble connection. War, for example, involves wide spread misery and death; the premises of a syllogism involve the conclusion. 

INVOLVED:  Same as Involute. 

INVOLVEDNESS:  The state of being involved. 

INVOLVEMENT:  The act of involving, or the state of being involved. Lew Wallace. 

INVULGAR:  To cause to become or appear vulgar. [Obs.] Daniel. 

INVULGAR:  Not vulgar; refined; elegant. [Obs.] Drayton. 

INVULNERABILITY:  Quality or state of being invulnerable. 

INVULNERABLENESS:  Invulnerability. 

INVULNERATE:  Invulnerable. 

INWALL:  To inclose or fortify as with a wall. Spenser. 

INWALL:  An inner wall; specifically (Metal.), the inner wall, or lining, of a blast furnace. 

INWARDS:  See Inward. 

INWEAVE:  To weave in or together; to intermix or intertwine by weaving; to interlace. Down they cast Their crowns, inwove with amaranth and gold. Milton. 

INWHEEL:  To encircle. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 

INWIT:  Inward sense; mind; understanding; conscience. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

INWITH:  Within. [Obs.] This purse hath she inwith her bosom hid. Chaucer. 

INWORK:  To work in or within. 

INWORN:  Worn, wrought, or stamped in. [R.] Milton. 

INWREATHE:  To surround or encompass as with a wreath. [Written also enwreathe.] Resplendent locks, inwreathed with beams. Milton. 

INWROUGHT:  Wrought or worked in or among other things; worked into any fabric so as to from a part of its texture; wrought or adorned, as with figures. His mantle hairy, and his bonnet sedge, Inwrought with figures dim. Milton. 

IO:  An exclamation of joy or triumph; -- often interjectional.  IOD- I"od-. (Chem.)  See Iodo-. 

IODAL:  An oily liquid, Cl3.CHO, analogous to chloral and bromal. 

IODATE:  A salt of iodic acid. 

IODHYDRIN:  One of a series of compounds containing iodine, and analogous to the chlorhydrins. 

IODIC:  to, or containing, iodine; specif., denoting those compounds in which it has a relatively high valence; as, iodic acid. Iodic acid, a monobasic acid, consisting of iodine with three parts of oxygen and one of hydrogen. 

IODIDE:  A binary compound of iodine, or one which may be regarded as binary; as, potassium iodide. 

IODINE:  A nonmetallic element, of the halogen group, occurring always in combination, as in the iodides. When isolated it is in the form of dark gray metallic scales, resembling plumbago, soft but brittle, and emitting a chlorinelike odor. Symbol I. Atomic weight 126.5. If heated, iodine volatilizes in beautiful violet vapors.  Note: Iodine was formerly obtained from the ashes of seaweed (kelp or varec), but is now also extracted from certain natural brines. In the free state, iodine, even in very minute quantities, colors starch blue. Iodine and its compounds are largely used in medicine (as in liniments, antisyphilitics, etc.), in photography, in the preparation of aniline dyes, and as an indicator in titration. Iodine green, an artificial green dyestuff, consisting of an iodine derivative of rosaniline; -- called also night green.  -- Iodine scarlet, a pigment of an intense scarlet color, consisting of mercuric iodide.  -- Iodine yellow, a brilliant yellow pigment, consisting of plumbic iodide. 

IODISM:  A morbid state produced by the use of iodine and its compounds, and characterized by palpitation, depression, and general emaciation, with a pustular eruption upon the skin. 

IODIZE:  To treat or impregnate with iodine or its compounds; as, to iodize a plate for photography. R. Hunt. 

IODIZER:  One who, or that which, iodizes.  IODO-; IOD- I"o*do-, I"od-. (Chem.)  A prefix, or combining from, indicating iodine as an ingredient; as, iodoform. 

IODOCRESOL:  Any of several isomeric iodine derivatives of the cresols, C6H3I(CH3)OH, esp. one, an odorless amorphous powder, used in medicine as a substitute for iodoform. 

IODOFORM:  A yellow, crystalline, volatile substance, CI3H, having an offensive odor and sweetish taste, and analogous to chloroform. It is used in medicine as a healing and antiseptic dressing for wounds and sores. 

IODOFORMOGEN:  A light powder used as a substitute for iodoform. It is a compound of iodoform and albumin. 

IODOL:  A crystallized substance of the composition C4I4NH, technically tetra-iodo-pyrrol, used like iodoform. 

IODOQUININE:  A iodide of quinine obtained as a brown substance,. It is the base of herapathite. See Herapathite. 

IODOTHYRIN:  A peculiar substance obtained from the thyroid gland, containing from nine to ten per cent of iodine.   It is a very stable compound, and is believed to be active principle in thyroid extracts and in the internal secretion of the thyroid gland. It was originally called thyroiodin. 

IODOUS:  Pertaining to, or containing, iodine. See -ous (chemical suffix). Iodous acid, a hypothetical acid, analogous to chlorous acid. 

IODURET:  Iodide. [Obs.] 

IODYRITE:  Silver iodide, a mineral of a yellowish color. 

IOLITE:  A silicate of alumina, iron, and magnesia, having a bright blue color and vitreous luster; cordierite. It is remarkable for its dichroism, and is also called dichroite.  IO MOTH I"o moth`. (Zoöl.)  A large and handsome American moth (Hyperchiria Io), having a large, bright-colored spot on each hind wing, resembling the spots on the tail of a peacock. The larva is covered with prickly hairs, which sting like nettles.  -ION -ion. Etym: [L. -io, acc. -ionem: cf. F. -ion.]  A noun suffix denoting act, process, result of an act or a process, thing acted upon, state, or condition; as, revolution, the act or process of revolving; construction, the act or process of constructing; a thing constructed; dominion, territory ruled over; subjection, state of being subject; dejection; abstraction. 

ION:  One of the elements which appear at the respective poles when a body is subjected to electro-chemical decomposition. Cf. Anion, Cation. 

IONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Ionia or the Ionians; Ionic.  -- n.  A native or citizen of Ionia. 

IONIC:  Pertaining to the Ionic order of architecture, one of the three orders invented by the Greeks, and one of the five recognized by the Italian writers of the sixteenth century. Its distinguishing feature is a capital with spiral volutes. See Illust. of Capital. Ionic dialect (Gr. Gram.), a dialect of the Greek language, used in Ionia. The Homeric poems are written in what is designated old Ionic, as distinguished from new Ionic, or Attic, the dialect of all cultivated Greeks in the period of Athenian prosperity and glory.  -- Ionic foot. (Pros.) See Ionic, n., 1.  -- Ionic, or Ionian, mode (Mus.), an ancient mode, supposed to correspond with the modern major scale of C.  -- Ionic sect, a sect of philosophers founded by Thales of Miletus, in Ionia. Their distinguishing tenet was, that water is the original principle of all things.  -- Ionic type, a kind of heavy-faced type (as that of the following line).  Note: This is Nonpareil Ionic. 

IONIC:  Of or pertaining to an ion; composed of ions. 

IONIC:  Ionic type. 

IONIDIUM:  A genus of violaceous plants, chiefly found in tropical America, some species of which are used as substitutes for ipecacuanha. 

IONIZE:  To separate (a compound) into ions, esp. by dissolving in water. --I`on*i*za"tion (#), n.  IOQUA SHELL I"o*qua shell`. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zoöl.)  The shell of a large Dentalium (D. pretiosum), formerly used as shell money, and for ornaments, by the Indians of the west coast of North America. 

IOTACISM:  The frequent use of the sound of iota (that of English e in be), as among the modern Greeks; also, confusion from sounding Littré.  I O U I O U. Etym: [i. e., I owe you.]  A paper having on it these letters, with a sum named, and duly signed; -- in use in England as an acknowledgment of a debt, and taken as evidence thereof, but not amounting to a promissory note; a due bill. Wharton. Story. 

IOWAS:  ; sing. Iowa. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region now included in the State of Iowa. 

IPECAC:  An abbreviation of Ipecacuanha, and in more frequent use. 

IPECACUANHA:  The root of a Brazilian rubiaceous herb (Cephaëlis Ipecacuanha), largely employed as an emetic; also, the plant itself; also, a medicinal extract of the root. Many other plants are used as a substitutes; among them are the black or Peruvian ipecac (Psychotria emetica), the white ipecac (Ionidium Ipecacuanha), the bastard or wild ipecac (Asclepias Curassavica), and the undulated ipecac (Richardsonia scabra). 

IPOCRAS:  Hippocras. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

IPOMOEA:  , and Gray.] (Bot.) A genus of twining plants with showy monopetalous flowers, including the morning-glory, the sweet potato, and the cypress vine. 

IPOMOEIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the oxidation of convolvulin (obtained from jalap, the tubers of Ipomoea purga), and identical in most of its properties with sebacic acid.  IR- Ir-  . A form of the prefix in-. See In-. 

IRACUND:  Irascible; choleric. "Iracund people." Carlyle. 

IRADE:  A decree of the Sultan. 

IRAN:  The native name of Persia. 

IRANIAN:  Of or pertaining to Iran.  -- n.  A native of Iran; also, the Iranian or Persian language, a division of the Aryan family of languages. 

IRANIC:  Iranian. 

IRASCIBILITY:  The quality or state of being irascible; irritability of temper; irascibleness. 

IRASCIBLE:  Prone to anger; easily provoked or inflamed to anger; choleric; irritable; as, an irascible man; an irascible temper or mood.  -- I*ras"ci*ble*ness, n.  -- I*ras"ci*bly, adv. 

IRATE:  Angry; incensed; enraged. [Recent] The irate colonel . . . stood speechless. Thackeray. Mr. Jaggers suddenly became most irate. Dickens. 

IRE:  Anger; wrath. [Poet.]  Syn.  -- Anger; passion; rage; fury. See Anger. 

IREFUL:  Full of ire; angry; wroth. "The ireful bastard Orleans." Shak.  -- Ire"ful*ly, adv. 

IREFULNESS:  Wrathfulness. Wyclif. 

IRENARCH:  An officer in the Greek empire having functions corresponding to those of a justice of the peace. [Written also eirenarch.]  IRENIC; IRENICAL I*ren"ic, I*ren"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Fitted or designed to promote peace; pacific; conciliatory; peaceful. Bp. Hall. 

IRENICON:  A proposition or device for securing peace, especially in the church. South. 

IRENICS:  That branch of Christian science which treats of the methods of securing unity among Christians or harmony and union among the churches; -- called also Irenical theology. Schaff-Herzog. 

IRESTONE:  Any very hard rock. 

IRIAN:  Of or pertaining to the iris. "Irian nerves." Dunglison. 

IRICISM:  Irishism. [R.] Jeffrey.  IRIDACEOUS; IRIDEOUS Ir`i*da"ceous, I*rid"e*ous, a. Etym: [From NL. Iris, Iridis, the Iris.] (Bot.)  Pertaining to, or resembling, a large natural order of endogenous plants (Iridaceæ), which includes the genera Iris, Ixia, Crocus, Gladiolus, and many others. 

IRIDAL:  Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow; prismatic; as, the iridal colors. Whewell. 

IRIDECTOMY:  The act or process of cutting out a portion of the iris in order to form an artificial pupil. 

IRIDESCENCE:  Exhibition of colors like those of the rainbow; the quality or state of being iridescent; a prismatic play of color; as, the iridescence of mother-of-pearl. 

IRIDESCENT:  Having colors like the rainbow; exhibiting a play of changeable colors; nacreous; prismatic; as, iridescent glass. 

IRIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow. 

IRIDIATED:  Iridescent. 

IRIDIC:  Of or pertaining to the iris of the eye. 

IRIDIC:  Of or pertaining to iridium; -- said specifically of those compounds in which iridium has a relatively high valence. 

IRIDIOSCOPE:  A kind of ophthalmoscope. 

IRIDIOUS:  Of or pertaining to iridium; -- applied specifically to compounds in which iridium has a low valence. 

IRIDIUM:  A rare metallic element, of the same group as platinum, which it much resembles, being silver-white, but harder, and brittle, and indifferent to most corrosive agents. With the exception of osmium, it is the heaviest substance known, its specific gravity being 22.4. Symbol Ir. Atomic weight 192.5.  Note: Iridium usually occurs as a native alloy with osmium (iridosmine or osmiridium), which may occur alone or with platinum. Iridium, as an alloy with platinum, is used in bushing the vents of heavy ordnance. It is also used for the points of gold pens, and in a finely powdered condition (iridium black), for painting porcelain black. 

IRIDOLINE:  A nitrogenous base C10H9N, extracted from coal-tar naphtha, as an oily liquid. It is a member of the quinoline series, and is probably identical with lepidine.  IRIDOSMINE; IRIDOSMIUM Ir`i*dos"mine, Ir`i*dos"mi*um, n. Etym: [Iridium + osmium.] (Min.)  The native compound of iridium and osmium. It is found in flattened metallic grains of extreme hardness, and is often used for pointing gold pens. 

IRIS:  The goddess of the rainbow, and swift-footed messenger of the gods. Shak.  2. The rainbow. Sir T. Browne.  3. An appearance resembling the rainbow; a prismatic play of colors. Tennyson.  4. (Anat.)  The contractile membrane perforated by the pupil, and forming the colored portion of the eye. See Eye.  5. (Bot.)  A genus of plants having showy flowers and bulbous or tuberous roots, of which the flower-de-luce (fleur-de-lis), orris, and other species of flag are examples. See Illust. of Flower-de-luce.  6. (Her.)  See Fleur-de-lis, 2. 

IRISATED:  Exhibiting the prismatic colors; irised; iridescent. W. Phillips. 

IRISCOPE:  A philosophical toy for exhibiting the prismatic tints by means of thin films.  IRIS DIAPHRAGM I"ris di"a*phragm.  An adjustable diaphragm, suggesting the iris of the eye in its action, for regulating the aperture of a lens, consisting of a number of thin pieces fastened to a ring. It is used in cameras and microscopes. 

IRISED:  Having colors like those of the rainbow; iridescent. Holmes. 

IRISH:  Of or pertaining to Ireland or to its inhabitants; produced in Ireland. Irish elk. (Zoöl.) See under Elk.  -- Irish moss. (a) (Bot.) Carrageen. (b) A preparation of the same made into a blanc mange.  -- Irish poplin. See Poplin.  -- Irish potato, the ordinary white potato, so called because it is a favorite article of food in Ireland.  -- Irish reef, or Irishman's reef (Naut.), the head of a sail tied up.  -- Irish stew, meat, potatoes, and onions, cut in small pieces and stewed. 

IRISH:  The natives or inhabitants of Ireland, esp. the Celtic natives or their descendants.  2. The language of the Irish; the Hiberno-Celtic.  3. An old game resembling backgammon.  IRISH AMERICAN I"rish A*mer"i*can.  A native of Ireland who has become an American citizen; also, a child or descendant of such a person. 

IRISHISM:  A mode of speaking peculiar to the Irish; an Hibernicism. 

IRISHMAN:  A man born in Ireland or of the Irish race; an Hibernian. Irishman's hurricane (Naut.), a dead calm.  -- Irishman's reef. (Naut.) See Irish reef, under Irish, a. 

IRISHRY:  The Celtic people of Ireland. "The whole Irishry of rebels." Milton. 

IRITIS:  An inflammation of the iris of the eye. 

IRK:  To weary; to give pain; to annoy; -- used only impersonally at present. To see this sight, it irks my very soul. Shak. It irketh him to be here. M. Arnold. 

IRON:  The most common and most useful metallic element, being of almost universal occurrence, usually in the form of an oxide (as hematite, magnetite, etc.), or a hydrous oxide (as limonite, turgite, etc.). It is reduced on an enormous scale in three principal forms; viz., cast iron, steel, and wrought iron. Iron usually appears dark brown, from oxidation or impurity, but when pure, or an fresh surface, is a gray or white metal. It is easily oxidized (rusted) by moisture, and is attacked by many corrosive agents. Symbol Fe (Latin Ferrum). Atomic weight 55.9. Specific gravity, pure iron, 7.86; cast iron, 7.1. In magnetic properties, it is superior to all other substances.  Note: The value of iron is largely due to the facility with which it can be worked. Thus, when heated it is malleable and ductile, and can be easily welded and forged at a high temperature. As cast iron, it is easily fusible; as steel, is very tough, and (when tempered) very hard and elastic. Chemically, iron is grouped with cobalt and nickel. Steel is a variety of iron containing more carbon than wrought iron, but less that cast iron. It is made either from wrought iron, by roasting in a packing of carbon (cementation) or from cast iron, by burning off the impurities in a Bessemer converter (then called Bessemer steel), or directly from the iron ore (as in the Siemens rotatory and generating furnace).  2. An instrument or utensil made of iron; -- chiefly in composition; as, a flatiron, a smoothing iron, etc. My young soldier, put up your iron. Shak.  3. pl.  Fetters; chains; handcuffs; manacles. Four of the sufferers were left to rot in irons. Macaulay.  4. Strength; power; firmness; inflexibility; as, to rule with a rod of iron. Bar iron. See Wrought iron (below).  -- Bog iron, bog ore; limonite. See Bog ore, under Bog.  -- Cast iron (Metal.), an impure variety of iron, containing from three to six percent of carbon, part of which is united with a part of the iron, as a carbide, and the rest is uncombined, as graphite. It there is little free carbon, the product is white iron; if much of the carbon has separated as graphite, it is called gray iron. See also Cast iron, in the Vocabulary.  -- Fire irons. See under Fire, n.  -- Gray irons. See under Fire, n.  -- Gray iron. See Cast iron (above).  -- It irons (Naut.), said of a sailing vessel, when, in tacking, she comes up head to the wind and will not fill away on either tack.  -- Magnetic iron. See Magnetite.  -- Malleable iron (Metal.), iron sufficiently pure or soft to be capable of extension under the hammer; also, specif., a kind of iron produced by removing a portion of the carbon or other impurities from cast iron, rendering it less brittle, and to some extent malleable.  -- Meteoric iron (Chem.), iron forming a large, and often the chief, ingredient of meteorites. It invariably contains a small amount of nickel and cobalt. Cf. Meteorite.  -- Pig iron, the form in which cast iron is made at the blast furnace, being run into molds, called pigs.  -- Reduced iron. See under Reduced.  -- Specular iron. See Hematite.  -- Too many irons in the fire, too many objects requiring the attention at once.  -- White iron. See Cast iron (above).  -- Wrought iron (Metal.), the purest form of iron commonly known in the arts, containing only about half of one per cent of carbon. It is made either directly from the ore, as in the Catalan forge or bloomery, or by purifying (puddling) cast iron in a reverberatory furnace or refinery. It is tough, malleable, and ductile. When formed into bars, it is called bar iron. 

IRON:  The Australian Eucalyptus Sideroxylon, used largely by carpenters and shipbuilders; -- called also ironwood. 

IRONBOUND:  Cased or covered with iron, as a vessel; ironclad. 

IRONCLAD:  A naval vessel having the parts above water covered and protected by iron or steel usually in large plates closely joined and made sufficiently thick and strong to resist heavy shot. 

IRONER:  One who, or that which, irons.  IRON-FISTED I"ron-fist`ed, a.  Closefisted; stingy; mean.  IRON-GRAY I"ron-gray`, a.  Of a gray color, somewhat resembling that of iron freshly broken.  -- n.  An iron-gray color; also, a horse of this color. 

IRONHEADS:  A European composite herb (Centaurea nigra); -- so called from the resemblance of its knobbed head to an iron ball fixed on a long handle. Dr. Prior.  IRON-HEARTED I"ron-heart`ed, a.  Hard-hearted; unfeeling; cruel; as, an iron-hearted master. Cowper. 

IRONIC:  Ironical. Sir T. Herbert. 

IRONISH:  Resembling iron, as in taste. Wood. 

IRONIST:  One who uses irony. 

IRONMASTER:  A manufacturer of iron, or large dealer therein. Bp. Hurd. 

IRONMONGER:  A dealer in iron or hardware. 

IRONMONGERY:  Hardware; a general name for all articles made of iron. Gwilt.  IRON-SICK I"ron-sick`, a. (Naut.)  Having the ironwork loose or corroded; -- said of a ship when her bolts and nails are so eaten with rust that she has become leaky.  IRON-SIDED I"ron-sid`ed, a.  Having iron sides, or very firm sides. 

IRONSIDES:  A cuirassier or cuirassiers; also, hardy veteran soldiers; -- applied specifically to Cromwell's cavalry. 

IRONSMITH:  An East Indian barbet (Megalaima faber), inhabiting the Island of Hainan. The name alludes to its note, which resembles the sounds made by a smith. 

IRONSTONE:  A hard, earthy ore of iron. Clay ironstone. See under Clay.  -- Ironstone china, a hard white pottery, first made in England during the 18th century. 

IRONWARE:  Articles made of iron, as household utensils, tools, and the like. 

IRONWEED:  A tall weed with purplish flowers (Vernonia Noveboracensis). The name is also applied to other plants of the same genus. 

IRONWOOD:  A tree unusually hard, strong, or heavy wood.  Note: In the United States, the hornbeam and the hop hornbeam are so called; also the Olneya Tesota, a small tree of Arizona; in the West Indies, the Erythroxylon areolatum, and several other unrelated trees; in China, the Metrosideros vera; in India, the Mesua ferrea, and two species of Inga; in Australia, the Eucalyptus Sideroxylon, and in many countries, species of Sideroxylon and Diospyros, and many other trees. 

IRONWORK:  Anything made of iron; -- a general name of such parts or pieces of a building, vessel, carriage, etc., as consist of iron.  IRON WORKS I"ron works`  . See under Iron, a. 

IRONWORT:  An herb of the Mint family (Sideritis), supposed to heal sword cuts; also, a species of Galeopsis. 

IROQUOIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, one of the principal linguistic stocks of the North American Indians. The territory of the northern Iroquoian tribes, of whom the Five Nations, or Iroquois proper, were the chief, extended from the shores of the St. Lawrence and of Lakes Huron, Ontario, and Erie south, through eastern Pennsylvania, to Maryland; that of the southern tribes, of whom the Cherokees were chief, formed part of Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia, Tennessee, and Kentucky. All of the tribes were agricultural, and they were noted for large, communal houses, palisaded towns, and ability to organize, as well as for skill in war. --n.  An Indian of an Iroquoian tribe. 

IROQUOIS:  A powerful and warlike confederacy of Indian tribes, formerly inhabiting Central New York and constituting most of the Five Nations. Also, any Indian of the Iroquois tribes. 

IROUS:  Irascible; passionate. [Obs.] Chaucer.  IRP; IRPE Irp, Irpe, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]  A fantastic grimace or contortion of the body. [Obs.] Smirks and irps and all affected humors. B. Jonson . 

IRP:  Making irps. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  IRRADIANCE; IRRADIANCY Ir*ra"di*ance, Ir*ra"di*an*cy, n. Etym: [From Irradiant.]  1. The act of irradiating; emission of rays of light.  2. That which irradiates or is irradiated; luster; splendor; irradiation; brilliancy. Milton. 

IRRADIANT:  Irradiating or illuminating; as, the irradiant moon. Boyse. 

IRRADIATE:  To emit rays; to shine. 

IRRADIATE:  Illuminated; irradiated. Mason. 

IRRADIATION:  The apparent enlargement of a bright object seen upon a dark ground, due to the fact that the portions of the retina around the image are stimulated by the intense light; as when a dark spot on a white ground appears smaller, or a white spot on a dark ground larger, than it really is, esp. when a little out of focus. 

IRRADICATE:  To root deeply. [R.] 

IRRATIONAL:  Not capable of being exactly expressed by an integral number, or by a vulgar fraction; surd; -- said especially of roots. See Surd.  Syn.  -- Absurd; foolish; preposterous; unreasonable; senseless. See Absurd. 

IRRATIONALITY:  The quality or state of being irrational. "Brutish irrationaliity." South. 

IRRATIONALLY:  In an irrational manner. Boyle. 

IRRATIONALNESS:  Irrationality. 

IRREBUTTABLE:  Incapable of being rebutted. Coleridge. 

IRRECEPTIVE:  Not receiving; incapable of receiving. 

IRRECLAIMABLE:  Incapable of being reclaimed. Addison.  -- Ir`re*claim"a*bly, ad 

IRRECOGNITION:  A failure to recognize; absence of recognition. Lamb. 

IRRECOGNIZABLE:  Not recognizable. Carlyle. 

IRRECONCILABILITY:  The quality or state of being irreconcilable; irreconcilableness. 

IRRECONCILABLE:  Not reconcilable; implacable; incompatible; inconsistent; disagreeing; as, irreconcilable enemies, statements.  -- Ir*rec"on*ci`la*ble*ness, n.  -- Ir*rec"on*ci`la*bly, adv. 

IRRECONCILE:  To prevent from being reconciled; to alienate or disaffect. [Obs.] 

IRRECONCILEMENT:  The state or quality of being unreconciled; disagreement. 

IRRECONCILIATION:  Want of reconciliation; disagreement. 

IRRECORDABLE:  Not fit or possible to be recorded. 

IRRECOVERABLE:  Not capable of being recovered, regained, or remedied; irreparable; as, an irrecoverable loss, debt, or injury. That which is past is gone and irrecoverable. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Irreparable; irretrievable; irremediable; unalterable; incurable; hopeless.  -- Ir`re*cov"er*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Ir`re*cov"er*a*bly, adv. 

IRRECUPERABLE:  Irrecoverable.  -- Ir`re*cu"per*a*bly, adv. 

IRRECURED:  Incurable. [Obs.] 

IRRECUSABLE:  Not liable to exception or rejection. Sir W. Hamilton. 

IRREDEEMABILITY:  The state or quality of being irredeemable; irredeemableness. 

IRREDEEMABLE:  Not redeemable; that can not be redeemed; not payable in gold or silver, as a bond; -- used especially of such government notes, issued as currency, as are not convertible into coin at the pleasure of the holder.  -- Ir`re*deem"a*ble*ness, adv. 

IRREDUCIBILITY:  The state or quality of being irreducible. 

IRREDUCIBLE:  Incapable of being reduced to a simpler form of expression; as, an irreducible formula. Irreducible case (Alg.), a particular case in the solution of a cubic equation, in which the formula commonly employed contains an imaginary quantity, and therefore fails in its application.  -- Ir`re*du"ci*ble*ness, n.  -- -- Ir`re*du"ci*bly, adv. 

IRREFLECTION:  Want of reflection. 

IRREFLECTIVE:  Not reflective. De Quincey. 

IRREFORMABLE:  Incapable of being reformed; incorrigible. Joseph Cook. 

IRREFRAGABILITY:  The quality or state of being irrefragable; incapability of being refuted. 

IRREFRAGABLE:  Not refragable; not to be gainsaid or denied; not to be refuted or overthrown; unanswerable; incontestable; undeniable; as, an irrefragable argument; irrefragable evidence.  -- Ir*ref"ra*ga*ble*ness, n.  -- Ir*ref"ra*ga*bly, adv.  Syn.  -- Incontrovertible; unanswerable; indisputable; unquestionable; incontestable; indubitable; undeniable; irrefutable. 

IRREFRANGIBILITY:  The quality or state of being irrefrangible; irrefrangibleness. 

IRREFRANGIBLE:  Not refrangible; that can not be refracted in passing from one medium to another.  -- Ir`re*fran"gi*ble*ness, n. 

IRREFUTABLE:  Incapable of being refuted or disproved; indisputable.  -- Ir`re*fut"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Ir`re*fut"a*bly, adv. 

IRREGENERACY:  Unregeneracy. 

IRREGENERATION:  An unregenerate state. [Obs.] 

IRREGULAR:  Not regular; not conforming to a law, method, or usage recognized as the general rule; not according to common form; not conformable to nature, to the rules of moral rectitude, or to established principles; not normal; unnatural; immethodical; unsymmetrical; erratic; no straight; not uniform; as, an irregular line; an irregular figure; an irregular verse; an irregular physician; an irregular proceeding; irregular motion; irregular conduct, etc. Cf. Regular. Mazes intricate, Eccentric, intervolved, yet regular Then most when most irregular they seem. Milton. Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight Against the irregular and wild Glendower. Shak. A flowery meadow through which a clear stream murmured in many irregular meanders. Jones.  Syn.  -- Immethodical; unsystematic; abnormal; unnatural; anomalous; erratic; devious; crooked; eccentric; unsettled; uneven; variable; changeable; mutable; desultory; disorderly; wild; immoderate; intemperate; inordinate; vicious. 

IRREGULAR:  One who is not regular; especially, a soldier not in regular service. 

IRREGULARIST:  One who is irregular. Baxter. 

IRREGULARITY:  The state or quality of being irregular; that which is irregular. 

IRREGULARLY:  In an irregular manner. 

IRREGULATE:  To make irregular; to disorder. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

IRREGULOUS:  Lawless. [Obs.] Shak. 

IRREJECTABLE:  That can not be rejected; irresistible. Boyle. 

IRRELAPSABLE:  Not liable to relapse; secure. Dr. H. More. 

IRRELATE:  Ir 

IRRELATION:  The quality or state of being irrelative; want of connection or relation. 

IRRELATIVE:  Not relative; without mutual relations; unconnected.  -- Ir*rel"a*tive*ly, adv. Irrelative chords (Mus.), those having no common tone.  -- Irrelative repetition (Biol.), the multiplication of parts that serve for a common purpose, but have no mutual dependence or connection. Owen. 

IRRELAVANCE:  Irrelevancy. 

IRRELAVANCY:  The quality or state of being irrelevant; as, the irrelevancy of an argument. 

IRRELAVANT:  Not relevant; not applicable or pertinent; not bearing upon or serving to support; foreign; extraneous; as, testimony or arguments irrelevant to a case.  -- Ir*rel"a*vant*ly, adv. 

IRRELIEVABLE:  Not admitting relief; incurable; hopeless. 

IRRELIGION:  The state of being irreligious; want of religion; impiety. 

IRRELIGIONIST:  One who is irreligious. 

IRRELIGIOUSLY:  In an irreligious manner. 

IRRELIGIOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being irreligious; ungodliness. 

IRREMEABLE:  Admitting no return; as, an irremeable way. [Obs.] Dryden. 

IRREMEDIABLE:  Not to be remedied, corrected, or redressed; incurable; as, an irremediable disease or evil. 

IRREMEDIABLENESS:  The state or quality of being irremediable. 

IRREMEDIABLY:  In a manner, or to a degree, that precludes remedy, cure, or correction. 

IRREMISSIBLE:  Not remissible; unpardonable; as, irremissible crimes. Burke.  -- Ir`re*mis"si*ble, n.  -- Ir`re*mis"si*bly, adv. 

IRREMISSION:  Refusal of pardon. 

IRREMISSIVE:  Not remitting; unforgiving. 

IRREMITTABLE:  Not capable of being remitted; irremissible. Holinshed. 

IRREMOVABILITY:  The quality or state of being irremovable; immovableness. 

IRREMOVABLE:  Not removable; immovable; inflexible. Shak.  -- Ir`re*mov"a*bly, adv. 

IRREMOVAL:  Absence of removal. 

IRREMUNERABLE:  Not remunerable; not capable of remuneration. 

IRRENOWNED:  Not renowned. [Obs.] 

IRREPARABILITY:  The quality or state of being irreparable; irreparableness. Sterne. 

IRREPARABLE:  Not reparable; not capable of being repaired, recovered, regained, or remedied; irretrievable; irremediable; as, an irreparable breach; an irreparable loss. Shak. 

IRREPARABLENESS:  Quality of being irreparable. 

IRREPARABLY:  In an irreparable manner. 

IRREPEALABILITY:  The quality or state of being irrepealable. 

IRREPEALABLE:  Not repealable; not capable of being repealed or revoked, as a law.  -- Ir`re*peal"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Ir`re*peal"a*bly, adv. 

IRREPENTANCE:  Want of repentance; impenitence. Bp. Montagu.  IRREPLEVIABLE; IRREPLEVISABLE Ir`re*plev"i*a*ble, Ir`re*plev"i*sa*ble, a. (Law)  Not capable of being replevied. 

IRREPREHENSIBLE:  Not reprehensible; blameless; innocent.  -- Ir*rep`re*hen"si*ble*ness, n.  -- Ir*rep`re*hen"si*bly, adv. 

IRREPRESENTABLE:  Not capable of being represented or portrayed. 

IRREPRESSIBLE:  Not capable of being repressed, restrained, or controlled; as, irrepressible joy; an irrepressible conflict. W. H. Steward. 

IRREPRESSIBLY:  In a manner or to a degree that can not be repressed. 

IRREPROACHABLE:  Not reproachable; above reproach; not deserving reproach; blameless. He [Berkely] erred, -- and who is free from error -- but his intentions were irreproachable. Beattie. 

IRREPROACHABLENESS:  The quality or state of being irreproachable; integrity; innocence. 

IRREPROACHABLY:  In an irreproachable manner; blamelessly. 

IRREPROVABLE:  Incapable of being justly reproved; irreproachable; blameless; upright.  -- Ir`re*prov"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Ir`re*prov"a*bly, adv. 

IRREPTITIOUS:  Surreptitious; spurious. [Obs.] Dr. Castell (1673). 

IRREPUTABLE:  Disreputable. [Obs.] 

IRRESILIENT:  Not resilient; not recoiling or rebounding; inelastic. 

IRRESISTANCE:  Nonresistance; passive submission. 

IRRESISTIBILITY:  The quality or state of being irrestible, irresistibleness. 

IRRESISTIBLE:  That can not be successfully resisted or opposed; superior to opposition; resistless; overpowering; as, an irresistible attraction. An irresistible law of our nature impels us to seek happiness. J. M. Mason. 

IRRESISTIBLENESS:  Quality of being irrestible. 

IRRESISTIBLY:  In an irrestible manner. 

IRRESISTLESS:  Irresistible. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

IRRESOLUBLENESS:  The state or quality of being irresoluble; insolubility. 

IRRESOLUTE:  Not resolute; not decided or determined; wavering; given to doubt or irresolution. Weak and irresolute is man. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Wavering; vacillating; undetermined; undecided; unsettled; fickle; changeable; inconstant.  -- Ir*res"o*lute*ly, adv.  -- Ir*res"o*lute*ness, n. 

IRRESOLUTION:  Want of resolution; want of decision in purpose; a fluctuation of mind, as in doubt, or between hope and fear; irresoluteness; indecision; vacillation. Irresolution on the schemes of life which offer themselves to our choice, and inconstancy in pursuing them, are the greatest causes of all unhappiness. Addison. 

IRRESOLVABILITY:  The quality of being irresolvable; irresolvableness. 

IRRESOLVABLE:  Incapable of being resolved; not separable into component parts. Irresolvable nebulæ (Astron.), nebulæ of a cloudlike appearance, which have not yet been resolved by the telescope into stars. Sir W. Herschel. 

IRRESOLVABLENESS:  The quality or state of being irresolvable; irresolvability. 

IRRESOLVEDLY:  Without settled determination; in a hesitating manner; doubtfully. [R.] 

IRRESPECTIVELY:  Without regard to conditions; not making circumstances into consideration. Prosperity, considered absolutely and irrespectively, is better and more desirable than adversity. South. 

IRRESPIRABLE:  Unfit for respiration; not having the qualities necessary to support animal life; as, irrespirable air. 

IRRESPONSIBILITY:  Want of, or freedom from, responsibility or accountability. 

IRRESPONSIBLY:  So as not to be responsible. 

IRRESPONSIVE:  Not responsive; not able, ready, or inclined to respond. 

IRRESUSCITABLE:  Incapable of being resuscitated or revived.  -- Ir`re*sus"ci*ta*bly, adv. 

IRRETENTION:  Want of retaining power; forgetfulness. De Quincey. 

IRRETENTIVE:  Not retentive; as, an irretentive memory. 

IRRETRACEABLE:  Incapable of being retraced; not retraceable. 

IRRETRIEVABLE:  Not retrievable; irrecoverable; irreparable; as, an irretrievable loss.  Syn.  -- Irremediable; incurable; irrecoverable. 

IRRETRIEVABLENESS:  The state or quality of being irretrievable. 

IRRETRIEVABLY:  In an irretrievable manner. 

IRRETURNABLE:  Not to be returned. 

IRREVEALABLE:  Incapable of being revealed.  -- Ir`re*veal"a*bly, adv. 

IRREVERENCE:  The state or quality of being irreverent; want of proper reverence; disregard of the authority and character of a superior. 

IRREVEREND:  Irreverent. [Obs.] Immodest speech, or irreverend gesture. Strype. 

IRREVERENT:  Not reverent; showing a want of reverence; expressive of a want of veneration; as, an irreverent babbler; an irreverent jest. 

IRREVERENTLY:  In an irreverent manner. 

IRREVERSIBILITY:  The state or quality of being irreversible; irreversibleness. 

IRREVERSIBLENESS:  The state or quality of being irreversible.  IRREVERSIBLE STEERING GEAR Ir`re*vers"i*ble steering gear. (Mach.)  A steering gear, esp. for an automobile, not affected by the road wheels, as when they strike an obstacle side ways, but easily controlled by the hand wheel or steering lever. 

IRREVERSIBLY:  In an irreversible manner. 

IRREVOCABILITY:  The state or quality of being irrevocable; irrevocableness. 

IRREVOCABLE:  Incapable of being recalled or revoked; unchangeable; irreversible; unalterable; as, an irrevocable promise or decree; irrevocable fate. Firm and irrevocable is my doom. Shak. -- Ir*rev"o*ca*ble*ness, n.  -- Ir*rev"o*ca*bly, adv. 

IRREVOKABLE:  Irrevocable. [R.] 

IRREVOLUBLE:  That has no finite period of revolution; not revolving. [R.] The dateless and irrevocable circle of eternity. Milton. 

IRRHETORICAL:  Not rethorical. 

IRRIGATE:  To water, as land, by causing a stream to flow upon, over, or through it, as in artificial channels. 

IRRIGATION:  The act or process of irrigating, or the state of being irrigated; especially, the operation of causing water to flow over lands, for nourishing plants. 

IRRISIBLE:  Not risible. [R.] 

IRRISION:  The act of laughing at another; derision. This being spoken scepticè, or by way of irrision. Chapman. 

IRRITABILITY:  A natural susceptibility, characteristic of all living organisms, tissues, and cells, to the influence of certain stimuli, response being manifested in a variety of ways, -- as that quality in plants by which they exhibit motion under suitable stimulation; esp., the property which living muscle processes, of responding either to a direct stimulus of its substance, or to the stimulating influence of its nerve fibers, the response being indicated by a change of form, or contraction; contractility.  3. (Med.)  A condition of morbid excitability of an organ or part of the body; undue susceptibility to the influence of stimuli. See Irritation, n., 3. 

IRRITABLE:  Endowed with irritability; susceptible of irritation; capable of being excited to action by the application of certain stimuli.  4. (Med.)  Susceptible of irritation; unduly sensitive to irritants or stimuli. See Irritation, n., 3.  Syn.  -- Excitable; irascible; touchy; fretful; peevish. 

IRRITABLENESS:  Irritability. 

IRRITABLY:  In an irritable manner. 

IRRITANCY:  The state or quality of being null and void; invalidity; forfeiture. Burrill. 

IRRITANCY:  The state o quality of being irritant or irritating. 

IRRITANT:  Rendering null and void; conditionally invalidating. The states elected Harry, Duke of Anjou, for their king, with this clause irritant; that, if he did violate any part of his oath, the people should owe him no allegiance. Hayward. 

IRRITANT:  Irritating; producing irritation or inflammation. 

IRRITANT:  Any agent by which irritation is produced; as, a chemical irritant; a mechanical or electrical irritant.  3. (Toxicology)  A poison that produces inflammation. Counter irritant. See under Counter.  -- Pure irritant (Toxicology), a poison that produces inflammation without any corrosive action upon the tissues. 

IRRITATE:  To render null and void. [R.] Abp. Bramhall. 

IRRITATE:  To produce irritation in; to stimulate; to cause to contract. See Irritation, n., 2.  4. (Med.)  To make morbidly excitable, or oversensitive; to fret; as, the skin is irritated by friction; to irritate a wound by a coarse bandage.  Syn.  -- To fret; inflame; excite; provoke; tease; vex; exasperate; anger; incense; enrage.  -- To Irritate, Provoke, Exasperate. These words express different stages of excited or angry feeling. Irritate denotes an excitement of quick and slightly angry feeling which is only momentary; as, irritated by a hasty remark. To provoke implies the awakening of some open expression of decided anger; as, a provoking insult. Exasperate denotes a provoking of anger at something unendurable. Whatever comes across our feelings irritates; whatever excites anger provokes; whatever raises anger to a high point exasperates. "Susceptible and nervous people are most easily irritated; proud people are quickly provoked; hot and fiery people are soonest exasperated." Crabb. 

IRRITATE:  Excited; heightened. [Obs.] 

IRRITATION:  The act of exciting, or the condition of being excited to action, by stimulation; -- as, the condition of an organ of sense, when its nerve is affected by some external body; esp., the act of exciting muscle fibers to contraction, by artificial stimulation; as, the irritation of a motor nerve by electricity; also, the condition of a muscle and nerve, under such stimulation.  3. (Med.)  A condition of morbid excitability or oversensitiveness of an organ or part of the body; a state in which the application of ordinary stimuli produces pain or excessive or vitiated action. 

IRRITATORY:  Exciting; producing irritation; irritating. [R.] Hales. 

IRRORATE:  To sprinkle or moisten with dew; to bedew. [Obs.] 

IRRORATE:  Covered with minute grains, appearing like fine sand. 

IRRORATION:  The act of bedewing; the state of being moistened with de [Obs.] Chambers. 

IRROTATIONAL:  Not rotatory; passing from one point to another by a movement other than rotation; -- said of the movement of parts of a liquid or yielding mass. Sir W. Thomson. 

IRRUBRICAL:  Contrary to the rubric; not rubrical. 

IRRUGATE:  To wrinkle. [Obs.] 

IRRUPTED:  Broken with violence. 

IRRUPTIVE:  Rushing in or upon. 

IRVINGITE:  The common designation of one a sect founded by the Rev. Edward Irving (about 1830), who call themselves the Catholic Apostolic Church. They are highly ritualistic in worship, have an elaborate hierarchy of apostles, prophets, etc., and look for the speedy coming of Christ.  IS- Is-  . See Iso-. 

IS:  The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man. See Be.  Note: In some varieties of the Northern dialect of Old English, is was used for all persons of the singular. For thy is I come, and eke Alain. Chaucer. Aye is thou merry. Chaucer.  Note: The idiom of using the present for future events sure to happen is a relic of Old English in which the present and future had the same form; as, this year Christmas is on Friday. To-morrow is the new moon. 1 Sam. xx. 5.  ISABEL; ISABEL COLOR Is"a*bel, n., Is"a*bel col"or.Etym: [F. isabelle.]  See Isabella.  ISABELLA; ISABELLA COLOR Is`a*bel"la, n., Is`a*bel"la col"or. Etym: [Said to be named from the Spanish princess Isabella, daughter of king Philip II., in allusion to the color assumed by her shift, which she wore without change from 1601 to 1604, in consequence of a vow made by her.]  A brownish yellow color.  ISABELLA GRAPE Is`a*bel"la grape`. (Bot.)  A favorite sweet American grape of a purple color. See Fox grape, under Fox.  ISABELLA MOTH Is`a*bel"la moth`. (Zoöl.)  A common American moth (Pyrrharctia isabella), of an isabella color. The larva, called woolly bear and hedgehog caterpillar, is densely covered with hairs, which are black at each end of the body, and red in the middle part. 

ISABELLINE:  Of an isabel or isabella color.  ISAGELOUS; ISAGEL A. [Is- + Gr. Agelos Information.]  Containing the same information, as isagelous sentences. The coded message and the original, though appearing entirely unlike, are completely isagelous. Bacon The complementary strands have isagelous sequences. J. D. Watson.  -- Isagel I*sag"e*lous (i*sâg"ê*lûs), a. Etym: [Is- + Gr. a`gelos information.]  Containing the same information, as isagelous sentences. "The coded message and the original, though appearing entirely unlike, are completely isagelous." Bacon "The complementary strands have isagelous sequences." J. D. Watson.  -- Is"a*gel n.  One of two or more objects containing the same information. 

ISAGOGE:  An introduction. [Obs.] Harris.  ISAGOGIC; ISAGOGICAL I"sa*gog"ic, I"sa*gog"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. isagogicus, Gr.  Introductory; especially, introductory to the study of theology. 

ISAGOGICS:  That part of theological science directly preliminary to actual exegesis, or interpretation of the Scriptures. 

ISAGON:  A figure or polygon whose angles are equal. 

ISAPOSTOLIC:  Having equal, or almost equal, authority with the apostles of their teachings.  ISATIC; ISATINIC I*sat"ic, I`sa*tin"ic, a. (Chem.)  Pertaining to, or derived from, isatin; as, isatic acid, which is also called trioxindol. 

ISATIDE:  A white crystalline substance obtained by the partial reduction of isatin. [Written also isatyde.] 

ISATIN:  An orange-red crystalline substance, C8H5NO2, obtained by the oxidation of indigo blue. It is also produced from certain derivatives of benzoic acid, and is one important source of artificial indigo. [Written also, less properly, isatine.] 

ISATIS:  A genus of herbs, some species of which, especially the Isatis tinctoria, yield a blue dye similar to indigo; woad. 

ISATOGEN:  A complex nitrogenous radical, C8H4NO2, regarded as the essential residue of a series of compounds, related to isatin, which easily pass by reduction to indigo blue.  -- I*sat`o*gen"ic, a. 

ISATROPIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine, and isomeric with cinnamic acid. 

ISCHIAC:  See Ischial. 

ISCHIADIC:  Ischial. [R.] Ischiadic passion or disease (Med.), a rheumatic or neuralgic affection of some part about the hip joint; -- called also sciatica. 

ISCHIAL:  Of or pertaining to the ischium or hip; ischiac; ischiadic; ischiatic. Ischial callosity (Zoöl.), one of the patches of thickened hairless, and often bright-colored skin, on the buttocks of many apes, as the drill. 

ISCHIATIC:  Same as Ishial. 

ISCHIOCAPSULAR:  Of or pertaining to the ischium and the capsule of the hip joint; as, the ischiocapsular ligament. 

ISCHIOCERITE:  The third joint or the antennæ of the Crustacea.  ISCHION; ISCHIUM Is"chi*on, Is"chi*um, n. Etym: [L., Gr.  1. (Anat.)  The ventral and posterior of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis; seat bone; the huckle bone.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the pleuræ of insects. 

ISCHIOPODITE:  The third joint of the typical appendages of Crustacea. 

ISCHIORECTAL:  Of or pertaining to the region between the rectum and ishial tuberosity. 

ISCHURETIC:  Having the quality of relieving ischury.  -- n.  An ischuretic medicine. 

ISCHURY:  A retention or suppression of urine.  -ISE -ise  . See -ize. 

ISENTROPIC:  Having equal entropy. Isentropic lines, lines which pass through points having equal entropy. 

ISETHIONIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid, HO.C2H4.SO3H, obtained as an oily or crystalline substance, by the action of sulphur trioxide on alcohol or ether. It is derivative of sulphuric acid.  -ISH -ish. Etym: [AS. -isc; akin to G. -isch, OHG. -isc, Goth. & Dan. - isk, Gr. -esque.]  A suffix used to from adjectives from nouns and from adjectives. It denotes relation, resemblance, similarity, and sometimes has a diminutive force; as, selfish, boyish, brutish; whitish, somewhat white.  -ISH -ish. Etym: [OE. -issen, fr. F. -is, -iss- (found in the present particle, etc., of certain verbs, as finir to finish, fleurir to flourish), corresponding to L. -escere, an inchoative ending.]  A verb ending, originally appearing in certain verbs of French origin; as, abolish, cherish, finish, furnish, garnish, impoverish. 

ISHMAELITISH:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an Ishmaelite or the Ishmaelites. 

ISIAC:  Pertaining to the goddess Isis; as, Isiac mysteries. 

ISICLE:  A icicle. [Obs.] 

ISIDORIAN:  Pertaining, or ascribed, to Isidore; as, the Isidorian decretals, a spurious collection of decretals published in the ninth century. 

ISINGLASS:  A popular name for mica, especially when in thin sheets. 

ISIS:  The principal goddess worshiped by the Egyptians. She was regarded as the mother of Horus, and the sister and wife of Osiris. The Egyptians adored her as the goddess of fecundity, and as the great benefactress of their country, who instructed their ancestors in the art of agriculture.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any coral of the genus Isis, or family Isidæ, composed of joints of white, stony coral, alternating with flexible, horny joints. See Gorgoniacea.  3. (Astron.)  One of the asteroids. 

ISLAMISM:  The faith, doctrines, or religious system of the Mohammedans; Mohammedanism; Islam. 

ISLAMITE:  A Mohammedan. 

ISLAMITIC:  Of or pertaining to Islam; Mohammedan. 

ISLAMIZE:  To conform, or cause to conform, to the religion of Islam. 

ISLAND:  See Isle, n., 2. Islands of the blessed (Myth.), islands supposed to lie in the Western Ocean, where the favorites of the gods are conveyed at death, and dwell in everlasting joy. 

ISLANDER:  An inhabitant of an island. 

ISLANDY:  Of or pertaining to islands; full of islands. Cotgrave. 

ISLE:  See Aisle. 

ISLE:  A spot within another of a different color, as upon the wings of some insects. 

ISLE:  To cause to become an island, or like an island; to surround or encompass; to island. [Poetic] Isled in sudden seas of light. Tennyson. 

ISLET:  A little island.  -ISM -ism. Etym: [F. -isme, or L. -ismus, Gr.  A suffix indicating an act, a process, the result of an act or a process, a state; also, a characteristic (as a theory, doctrine, idiom, etc.); as, baptism, galvanism, organism, hypnotism, socialism, sensualism, Anglicism. 

ISM:  A doctrine or theory; especially, a wild or visionary theory. E. Everett. The world grew light-headed, and forth came a spawn of isms which no man can number. S. G. Goodrich.  ISMAELIAN; ISMAELITE Is`ma*e"li*an, Is"ma*el*ite, n. (Eccl.)  One of a sect of Mohammedans who favored the pretensions of the family of Mohammed ben Ismael, of the house Ali.  ISO-; IS- I"so-, Is-.Etym: [Gr. 'i`sos equal.]  A prefix or combining form, indicating identity, or equality; the same numerical value; as in isopod, isomorphous, isochromatic. Specif.: (a) (Chem.) Applied to certain compounds having the same composition but different properties; as in isocyanic. (b) (Organic Chem.) Applied to compounds of certain isomeric series in whose structure one carbon atom, at least, is connected with three other carbon atoms; -- contrasted with neo- and normal; as in isoparaffine; isopentane. 

ISOBAR:  A line connecting or marking places upon the surface of the earth where height of the barometer reduced to sea level is the same either at a given time, or for a certain period (mean height), as for a year; an isopiestic line. [Written also isobare.] 

ISOBAR:  The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially in atmospheric pressure. Also, the theory, method, or application of isobaric science. 

ISOBARIC:  Denoting equal pressure; as, an isobaric line; specifically, of or pertaining to isobars. 

ISOBARISM:  The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially in atmospheric pressure. Also, the theory, method, or application of isobaric science. 

ISOBAROMETRIC:  Indicating equal barometric pressure. 

ISOBATHYTHERM:  A line connecting the points on the surface of the earth where a certain temperature is found at the same depth. 

ISOBATHYTHERMIC:  Of or pertaining to an isobathytherm; possessing or indicating the same temperature at the same depth. 

ISOBRONT:  An imaginary line, or a line on a chart, marking the simultaneous development of a thunderstorm, as noted by observing the time when the thunder is heard at different places. 

ISOCEPHALISM:  A peculiarity in the design of bas-relief by which the heads of human figures are kept at the same height from the ground, whether the personages are seated, standing, or mounted on horseback; -- called also isokephaleia. 

ISOCHASM:  A line connecting places on the earth's surface at which there is the same mean frequency of auroras. 

ISOCHASMIC:  Indicating equal auroral display; as, an isochasmic line. 

ISOCHEIM:  A line connecting places on the earth having the same mean winter temperature. Cf. Isothere.  ISOCHEIMAL; ISOCHIMAL I`so*chei"mal, I`so*chi"mal, a.  Pertaining to, having the nature of, or making, isocheims; as, an isocheimal line; an isocheimal chart.  ISOCHEIMENAL; ISOCHIMENAL I`so*chei"me*nal, I`so*chi"me*nal a.  The same as Isocheimal. 

ISOCHEIMIC:  The same as Isocheimal. 

ISOCHIMENE:  The same as Isocheim. 

ISOCHOR:  A line upon a thermodynamic diagram so drawn as to represent the pressures corresponding to changes of temperature when the volume of the gas operated on is constant. -- I`so*chor"ic (#), a. 

ISOCHROMATIC:  Having the same color; connecting parts having the same color, as lines drawn through certain points in experiments on the chromatic effects of polarized light in crystals. 

ISOCHRONAL:  Uniform in time; of equal time; performed in equal times; recurring at regular intervals; isochronal vibrations or oscillations. 

ISOCHRONIC:  Isochronal. 

ISOCHRONISM:  The state or quality of being isochronous. 

ISOCHRONIZE:  To make, or tend to make (the motion of a moving body), uniform in rate of rotation, or in frequency of vibration. 

ISOCHRONON:  A clock that is designed to keep very accurate time. 

ISOCHRONOUS:  Same as Isochronal. 

ISOCHROOUS:  Having the same tint or color throughout; uniformly or evenly colored.  ISOCLINAL; ISOCLINIC I`so*cli"nal, I`so*clin"ic, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.  Of or pertaining to, or indicating, equality of inclination or dip; having equal inclination or dip. Isoclinal lines (Magnetism), lines on the earth's surface connecting places at which a dipping needle indicates the same inclination or dip. 

ISOCRYMAL:  Pertaining to, having the nature of, or illustrating, an isocryme; as, an isocrymal line; an isocrymal chart. 

ISOCRYME:  A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the same mean temperature in the coldest month of the year. 

ISOCRYMIC:  Isocrymal. 

ISOCYANIC:  Designating an acid isomeric with cyanic acid. Isocyanic acid, an acid metameric with cyanic acid, and resembling it in its salts. It is obtained as a colorless, mobile, unstable liquid by the heating cyanuric acid. Called technically carbimide. 

ISOCYANURIC:  Designating, or pertaining to, an acid isomeric with cyanuric acid, and called also fulminuric acid. See under Fulminuric. 

ISODIABATIC:  Pertaining to the reception or the giving out of equal quantities of heat by a substance. Rankine. Isodiabatic lines or curves, a pair of lines or curves exhibiting, on a diagram of energy, the law of variation of the pressure and density of a fluid, the one during the lowering, and the other during the raising, of its temperature, when the quantity of heat given out by the fluid during any given stage of the one process is equal to the quantity received during the corresponding stage of the other. Such lines are said to be isodiabatic with respect to each other. Compare Adiabatic. 

ISODIAMETRIC:  Developed alike in the directions of the several lateral axes; -- said of crystals of both the tetragonal and hexagonal systems.  2. (Bot.)  Having the several diameters nearly equal; -- said of the cells of ordinary parenchyma. 

ISODIMORPHIC:  Isodimorphous. 

ISODIMORPHISM:  Isomorphism between the two forms severally of two dimorphous substances. 

ISODIMORPHOUS:  Having the quality of isodimorphism. 

ISODROME:  A method of moving a fleet from one formation to another, the direction usually being changed eight points (90º), by means of paths of equal length for each ship. It is prohibited in the United States navy. 

ISODULCITE:  A white, crystalline, sugarlike substance, obtained by the decomposition of certain glucosides, and intermediate in nature between the hexacid alcohols (ductile, mannite, etc.) and the glucoses. 

ISODYNAMIC:  Of, pertaining to, having, or denoting, equality of force. Isodynamic foods (Physiol.), those foods that produce a similar amount of heat.  -- Isodynamic lines (Magnetism), lines on the earth's surface connecting places at which the magnetic intensity is the same. 

ISODYNAMOUS:  Of equal force or size. 

ISOGEOTHERM:  A line or curved surface passing beneath the earth's surface through points having the same mean temperature.  ISOGEOTHERMAL; ISOGEOTHERMIC I`so*ge`o*ther"mal, I`so*ge`o*ther"mic, a.  Pertaining to, having the nature of, or marking, isogeotherms; as, an isogeothermal line or surface; as isogeothermal chart.  -- n.  An isogeotherm. 

ISOGONIC:  Pertaining to, or noting, equal angles. Isogonic lines (Magnetism), lines traced on the surface of the globe, or upon a chart, connecting places at which the deviation of the magnetic needle from the meridian or true north is the same. 

ISOGONIC:  Characterized by isogonism. 

ISOGONISM:  The quality of having similar sexual zooids or gonophores and dissimilar hydrants; -- said of certain hydroids. 

ISOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to isography. 

ISOGRAPHY:  Imitation of another's handwriting, 

ISOHYETOSE:  Of or pertaining to lines connecting places on the earth's surface which have a mean annual rainfall.  -- n.  An isohyetose line. 

ISOLABLE:  Capable of being isolated, or of being obtained in a pure state; as, gold is isolable. 

ISOLATE:  To insulate. See Insulate.  3. (Chem.)  To separate from all foreign substances; to make pure; to obtain in a free state. 

ISOLATED:  Placed or standing alone; detached; separated from others. Isolated point of a curve. (Geom.) See Acnode. 

ISOLATEDLY:  In an isolated manner. 

ISOLATION:  The act of isolating, or the state of being isolated; insulation; separation; loneliness. Milman. 

ISOLATOR:  One who, or that which, isolates. 

ISOLOGOUS:  Having similar proportions, similar relations, or similar differences of composition; -- said specifically of groups or series which differ by a constant difference; as, ethane, ethylene, an acetylene, or their analogous compounds, form an isologous series. 

ISOMER:  A body or compound which is isomeric with another body or compound; a member of an isomeric series. 

ISOMERIC:  Having the same percentage composition; -- said of two or more different substances which contain the same ingredients in the same proportions by weight, often used with with. Specif.: (a) Polymeric; i. e., having the same elements united in the same proportion by weight, but with different molecular weights; as, acetylene and benzine are isomeric (polymeric) with each other in this sense. See Polymeric. (b) Metameric; i. e., having the same elements united in the same proportions by weight, and with the same molecular weight, but which a different structure or arrangement of the ultimate parts; as, ethyl alcohol and methyl ether are isomeric (metameric) with each other in this sense. See Metameric. 

ISOMERIDE:  An isomer. [R.] 

ISOMERISM:  The state, quality, or relation, of two or more isomeric substances. Physical isomerism (Chem.), the condition or relation of certain (metameric) substances, which, while chemically identical (in that they have the same composition, the same molecular weights, and the same ultimate constitution), are yet physically different, as in their action on polarized light, as dextro- and lævo-tartaric acids. In such compounds there is usually at least one unsymmetrical carbon atom. See Unsymmetrical. 

ISOMEROMORPHISM:  Isomorphism between substances that are isomeric.  ISOMETRIC; ISOMETRICAL I`so*met"ric, I`so*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Iso- + Gr.  1. Pertaining to, or characterized by, equality of measure.  2. (Crystallog.)  Noting, or conforming to, that system of crystallization in which the three axes are of equal length and at right angles to each other; monometric; regular; cubic. Cf. Crystallization. Isometric lines (Thermodynamics), lines representing in a diagram the relations of pressure and temperature in a gas, when the volume remains constant.  -- Isometrical perspective. See under Perspective.  -- Isometrical projection, a species of orthographic projection, in which but a single plane of projection is used. It is so named from the fact that the projections of three equal lines, parallel respectively to three rectangular axes, are equal to one another. This kind of projection is principally used in delineating buildings or machinery, in which the principal lines are parallel to three rectangular axes, and the principal planes are parallel to three rectangular planes passing through the three axes. 

ISOMORPH:  A substance which is similar to another in crystalline form and composition. 

ISOMORPHIC:  Isomorphous. 

ISOMORPHISM:  A similarity of crystalline form between substances of similar composition, as between the sulphates of barium (BaSO4) and strontium (SrSO4). It is sometimes extended to include similarity of form between substances of unlike composition, which is more properly called homoeomorphism. 

ISOMORPHOUS:  Having the quality of isomorphism. 

ISONANDRA:  A genus of sapotaceous trees of India. Isonandra Gutta is the principal source of gutta-percha. 

ISONEPHELIC:  Having, or indicating, an equal amount of cloudiness for a given period; as, isonephelic regions; an isonephelic line. 

ISONICOTINE:  A crystalline, nitrogenous base, C10H14N2, isomeric with nicotine. 

ISONICOTINIC:  A combining from (also used adjectively), signifying: Pertaining to, or designating, the characteristic, nitrogenous radical, NOH, called the isonitroso group. 

ISONOMIC:  The same, or equal, in law or right; one in kind or origin; analogous; similar. Dana. 

ISONOMY:  Equal law or right; equal distribution of rights and privileges; similarity. 

ISOPEPSIN:  Pepsin modified by exposure to a temperature of from 40º to 60º C. 

ISOPERIMETRICAL:  Having equal perimeters of circumferences; as, isoperimetrical figures or bodies. 

ISOPERIMETRY:  The science of figures having equal perimeters or boundaries. 

ISOPIESTIC:  Having equal pressure. Isopiestic lines, lines showing, in a diagram, the relations of temperature and volume, when the elastic force is constant; -- called also isobars. 

ISOPLEURA:  A subclass of Gastropoda, in which the body is symmetrical, the right and left sides being equal.  Note: The intestine terminates at the posterior end of the body, and the gills and circulatory and reproductive organs are paired. It includes the chitons (Polyplacophora), together with Neomenia and Chætoderma, which are wormlike forms without a shell. 

ISOPOD:  Having the legs similar in structure; belonging to the Isopoda.  -- n.  One of the Isopoda. 

ISOPODA:  An order of sessile-eyed Crustacea, usually having seven pairs of legs, which are all similar in structure.  Note: The body is usually depressed, with the abdominal segments short, and often consolidated in part. The branchiæ are on the abdominal appendages. The group includes the terrestrial pill bugs and sow bugs, with numerous marine forms. See Arthrostrata, Gribble. 

ISOPODIFORM:  Having the shape of an isopod; -- said of the larvæ of certain insects. 

ISOPODOUS:  Same as Isopod. 

ISOPOGONOUS:  Having the two webs equal in breath; -- said of feathers. 

ISOPRENE:  An oily, volatile hydrocarbon, obtained by the distillation of caoutchouc or guttaipercha.C5H8 -- unsaturated, and used to make synthetic rubber by polymerization. In organic chemistry, viewed conceptually as the building block of the terpene series of hydrocarbons 

ISOPYCNIC:  Having equal density, as different regions of a medium; passing through points at which the density is equal; as, an isopycnic line or surface. 

ISOPYCNIC:  A line or surface passing through those points in a medium, at which the density is the same. 

ISORCIN:  A crystalline hydrocarbon derivative, metameric with orcin, but produced artificially; -- called also cresorcin. 

ISORROPIC:  Of equal value. Isorropic line (in a diagram) (Geom.), the locus of all the points for which a specified function has a constant value. Newcomb. 

ISOSCELES:  Having two legs or sides that are equal; -- said of a triangle. 

ISOSPONDYLI:  An extensive order of fishes, including the salmons, herrings, and many allied forms. 

ISOSPONDYLOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Isospondyli; having the anterior vertebræ separate and normal. 

ISOSPORIC:  Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns and Equiseta. Cf. Heterosporic. 

ISOSPOROUS:  Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns. 

ISOSTASY:  The state or quality of being isostatic. Specif. (Geol.),  general equilibrium in the earth's crust, supposed to be maintained by the yielding or flow of rock material beneath the surface under gravitative stress. By the theory of isostasy each unit column of the earth, from surface to center, has approximately the same weight, and the continents stand higher than the ocean beds chiefly because the material of the crust has there less density. 

ISOSTATIC:  Subjected to equal pressure from every side; being in hydrostatic equilibrium, as a body submerged in a liquid at rest; pertaining to, or characterized by, isostasy. 

ISOSTEMONOUS:  Having exactly as many stamens as petals. 

ISOSTEMONY:  The quality or state of being isostemonous. 

ISOSULPHOCYANATE:  A salt of isosulphocyanic acid. 

ISOSULPHOCYANIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, HNCS, isomeric with sulphocyanic acid. 

ISOTHERAL:  Having the nature of an isothere; indicating the distribution of temperature by means of an isothere; as, an isotheral chart or line. 

ISOTHERE:  A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the same mean summer temperature. 

ISOTHERM:  A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surface having the same temperature. This may be the temperature for a given time of observation, or the mean temperature for a year or other period. Also, a similar line based on the distribution of temperature in the ocean. 

ISOTHERMOBATH:  A line drawn through points of equal temperature in a vertical section of the ocean. 

ISOTHERMOBATHIC:  Of or pertaining to an isothermobath; possessing or indicating equal temperatures in a vertical section, as of the ocean. 

ISOTHEROMBROSE:  A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surface, which have the same mean summer rainfall. 

ISOTONIC:  Having or indicating, equal tones, or tension. Isotonic system (Mus.), a system consisting of intervals, in which each concord is alike tempered, and in which there are twelve equal semitones. 

ISOTRIMORPHIC:  Isotrimorphous. 

ISOTRIMORPHISM:  Isomorphism between the three forms, severally, of two trimorphous substances. 

ISOTRIMORPHOUS:  Having the quality of isotrimorphism; isotrimorphic. 

ISOTROPIC:  Having the same properties in all directions; specifically, equally elastic in all directions. 

ISOTROPISM:  Isotropy. 

ISOTROPOUS:  Isotropic. 

ISOTROPY:  Uniformity of physical properties in all directions in a body; absence of all kinds of polarity; specifically, equal elasticity in all directions. 

ISOURIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid, isomeric with uric acid. 

ISRAELITE:  A descendant of Israel, or Jacob; a Hebrew; a Jew.  ISRAELITIC; ISRAELITISH Is`ra*el*it"ic, Is"ra*el*i`tish, a.  Of or pertaining to Israel, or to the Israelites; Jewish; Hebrew. 

ISSUABLY:  In an issuable manner; by way of issue; as, to plead issuably. 

ISSUANCE:  The act of issuing, or giving out; as, the issuance of an order; the issuance of rations, and the like. 

ISSUANT:  Issuing or coming up; -- a term used to express a charge or bearing rising or coming out of another. 

ISSUE:  An artificial ulcer, usually made in the fleshy part of the arm or leg, to produce the secretion and discharge of pus for the relief of some affected part.  8. The final outcome or result; upshot; conclusion; event; hence, contest; test; trial. Come forth to view The issue of the exploit. Shak. While it is hot, I 'll put it to the issue. Shak.  9. A point in debate or controversy on which the parties take affirmative and negative positions; a presentation of alternatives between which to choose or decide.  10. (Law)  In pleading, a single material point of law or fact depending in the suit, which, being affirmed on the one side and denied on the other, is presented for determination. See General issue, under General, and Feigned issue, under Feigned. Blount. Cowell. At issue, in controversy; disputed; opposing or contesting; hence, at variance; disagreeing; inconsistent. As much at issue with the summer day As if you brought a candle out of doors. Mrs. Browning. -- Bank of issue, Collateral issue, etc. See under Bank, Collateral, etc.  -- Issue pea, a pea, or a similar round body, used to maintain irritation in a wound, and promote the secretion and discharge of pus.  -- To join, or take, issue, to take opposing sides in a matter in controversy. 

ISSUE:  In pleading, to come to a point in fact or law, on which the parties join issue. 

ISSUELESS:  Having no issue or progeny; childless. "The heavens . . . have left me issueless." Shak. 

ISSUER:  One who issues, emits, or publishes.  -IST -ist. Etym: [Gr. iste.]  A noun suffix denoting an agent, or doer, one who practices, a believer in; as, theorist, one who theorizes; socialist, one who holds to socialism; sensualist, one given to sensuality.  IS'T Is't.  A contraction of is it. 

ISTHMIAN:  Of or pertaining to an isthmus, especially to the Isthmus of Corinth, in Greece. Isthmian games (Gr. Antiq.), one of the four great national festivals of Greece, celebrated on the Isthmus of Corinth in the spring of every alternate year. They consisted of all kinds of athletic sports, wrestling, boxing, racing on foot and in chariots, and also contests in music and poetry. The prize was a garland of pine leaves. 

ISTHMUS:  A neck or narrow slip of land by which two continents are connected, or by which a peninsula is united to the mainland; as, the Isthmus of Panama; the Isthmus of Suez, etc. Isthmus of the fauces. (Anat.) See Fauces. 

ISTLE:  Same as Ixtle. 

ISURET:  An artificial nitrogenous base, isomeric with urea, and forming a white crystalline substance; -- called also isuretine. 

IT:  The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they, their of theirs, them).  Note: The possessive form its is modern, being rarely found in the writings of Shakespeare and Milton, and not at all in the original King James's version of the Bible. During the transition from the regular his to the anomalous its, it was to some extent employed in the possessive without the case ending. See His, and He. In Dryden's time its had become quite established as the regular form. The day present hath ever inough to do with it owne grief. Genevan Test. Do, child, go to it grandam, child. Shak. It knighthood shall do worse. It shall fright all it friends with borrowing letters. B. Jonson.  Note: In the course of time, the nature of the neuter sign i in it, the form being found in but a few words, became misunderstood. Instead of being looked upon as an affix, it passed for part of the original word. Hence was formed from it the anomalous genitive it, superseding the Saxon his. Latham. The fruit tree yielding fruit after his (its) kind. Gen. i. 11. It is used, --  1. As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home.  2. As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John. It is I; be not afraid. Matt. xiv. 27. Peter heard that it was the Lord. John xxi. 7. Often, in such cases, as a substitute for a sentence or clause; as, it is thought he will come; it is wrong to do this.  3. As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains.  4. As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick man Think on me when it shall be well with thee. Gen. xl. 14.  5. As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk). The Lacedemonians, at the Straits of Thermopylæ, when their arms failed them, fought it out with nails and teeth. Dryden. Whether the charmer sinner it, or saint it, If folly grows romantic, I must paint it. Pope. Its self. See Itself. 

ITACISM:  Pronunciation of e in the English word be. This was the pronunciation advocated by ReuEtacism. In all such questions between a the confusing element of itacism comes in. Alford. 

ITACIST:  One who is in favor of itacism. 

ITACOLUMITE:  A laminated, granular, siliceous rocks, often occurring in regions where the diamond is found. 

ITACONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H6O4, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance by decomposing aconitic and other organic acids. 

ITALA:  An early Latin version of the Scriptures (the Old Testament was translated from the Septuagint, and was also called the Italic version). 

ITALIAN:  Of or pertaining to Italy, or to its people or language. Italian cloth a light material of cotton and worsted; -- called also farmer's satin.  -- Italian iron, a heater for fluting frills.  -- Italian juice, Calabrian liquorice. 

ITALIANATE:  To render Italian, or conformable to Italian customs; to Italianize. [R.] Ascham. 

ITALIANATE:  Italianized; Italianated. "Apish, childish, and Italianate." Marlowe. 

ITALIC:  An Italic letter, character, or type (see Italic, a., 2.); -- often in the plural; as, the Italics are the author's. Italic letters are used to distinguish words for emphasis, importance, antithesis, etc. Also, collectively, Italic letters. 

ITALICIZE:  To print in Italic characters; to underline written letters or words with a single line; as, to Italicize a word; Italicizes too much.  ITA PALM I"ta palm`. (Bot.)  A magnificent species of palm (Mauritia flexuosa), growing near the Orinoco. The natives eat its fruit and buds, drink its sap, and make thread and cord from its fiber. 

ITCH:  An eruption of small, isolated, acuminated vesicles, produced by the entrance of a parasitic mite (the Sarcoptes scabei), and attended with itching. It is transmissible by contact.  2. Any itching eruption.  3. A sensation in the skin occasioned (or resembling that occasioned) by the itch eruption; -- called also scabies, psora, etc.  4. A constant irritating desire. An itch of being thought a divine king. Dryden. Baker's itch. See under Baker.  -- Barber's itch, sycosis.  -- Bricklayer's itch, an eczema of the hands attended with much itching, occurring among bricklayers.  -- Grocer's itch, an itching eruption, being a variety of eczema, produced by the sugar mite (Tyrogluphus sacchari).  -- Itch insect (Zoöl.), a small parasitic mite (Sarcoptes scabei) which burrows and breeds beneath the human skin, thus causing the disease known as the itch. See Illust. in Append.  -- Itch mite. (Zoöl.) Same as Itch insect, above. Also, other similar mites affecting the lower animals, as the horse and ox.  -- Sugar baker's itch, a variety of eczema, due to the action of sugar upon the skin.  -- Washerwoman's itch, eczema of the hands and arms, occurring among washerwomen. 

ITCHINESS:  The state of being itchy. 

ITCHLESS:  Free from itching. 

ITCHY:  Infected with the itch, or with an itching sensation. Cowper.  -ITE -ite. Etym: [From Gr.  1. A suffix denoting one of a party, a sympathizer with or adherent of, and the like, and frequently used in ridicule; as, a Millerite; a Benthamite.  2. A suffix used in naming minerals; as, chlorite, from its characteristic green color; barite, from its heaviness; graphite, from its use in writing.  3. (Chem.)  A suffix used to denote the salts formed from those acids whose names end in -ous; as, sulphite, from sulphurous; nitrite, from nitrous acid, etc. 

ITEM:  Also; as an additional article. 

ITEM:  To make a note or memorandum of. I have itemed it in my memory. Addison. 

ITEMIZE:  To state in items, or by particulars; as, to itemize the cost of a railroad. [Local, U. S.] 

ITER:  A passage; esp., the passage between the third and fourth ventricles in the brain; the aqueduct of Sylvius. 

ITERABLE:  Capable of being iterated or repeated. [Obs.] 

ITERANCE:  Iteration. [Obs.] 

ITERANT:  Repeating; iterating; as, an iterant echo. Bacon. 

ITERATE:  Uttered or done again; repeated. [Obs.] Bp. Gardiner. 

ITERATE:  To utter or do a second time or many times; to repeat; as, to iterate advice. Nor Eve to iterate Her former trespass feared. Milton. 

ITERATE:  By way of iteration. 

ITERATION:  Recital or performance a second time; repetition. Bacon. What needs this iteration, woman Shak. 

ITERATIVE:  Repeating. Cotgrave.  -- It"er*a*tive*ly, adv. 

ITHYPHALLIC:  Lustful; lewd; salacious; indecent; obscene. 

ITINERACY:  The act or practice of itinerating; itinerancy. 

ITINERANT:  Passing or traveling about a country; going or preaching on a circuit; wandering; not settled; as, an itinerant preacher; an itinerant peddler. The king's own courts were then itinerant, being kept in the king's palace, and removing with his household in those royal progresses which he continually made. Blackstone. 

ITINERANT:  One who travels from place to place, particularly a preacher; one who is unsettled. Glad to turn itinerant, To stroll and teach from town to town. Hudibras. 

ITINERANTLY:  In an itinerant manner. 

ITINERARY:  Itinerant; traveling; passing from place to place; done on a journey. It was rather an itinerary circuit of justice than a progress. Bacon. 

ITINERARY:  An account of travels, or a register of places and distances as a guide to travelers; as, the Itinerary of Antoninus. 

ITINERATE:  To wander without a settled habitation; to travel from place or on a circuit, particularly for the purpose of preaching, lecturing, etc.  -ITIS -i"tis, Etym: [Gr.  A suffix used in medical terms to denote an inflammatory disease of; as, arthritis; bronchitis, phrenitis. 

ITS:  Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It. 

ITSELF:  The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in itself; it stands by itself. Borrowing of foreigners, in itself, makes not the kingdom rich or poor. Locke. 

ITTRIA:  See Yttria. 

ITTRIUM:  See Yttrium. 

ITZIBU:  A silver coin of Japan, worth about thirty-four cents. [Written also itzebu, ichebu, itcheboo, etc.] 

IULIDAN:  One of the Iulidæ, a family of myriapods, of which the genus Iulus is the type. See Iulus. 

IULUS:  A genus of chilognathous myriapods. The body is long and round, consisting of numerous smooth, equal segments, each of which bears two pairs of short legs. It includes the galleyworms. See Chilognatha.  IVAN IVANOVITCH I*van" I*van"o*vitch  . An ideal personification of the typical Russian or of the Russian people; -- used as "John Bull" is used for the typical Englishman.  I'VE I've  . Colloquial contraction of I have.  -IVE -ive. Etym: [L. -ivus.]  An adjective suffix signifying relating or belonging to, of the nature of, tending to; as affirmative, active, conclusive, corrective, diminutive. 

IVIED:  Overgrown with ivy. 

IVORIDE:  A composition resembling ivory in appearance and used as a substitute for it. 

IVORY:  Teeth; as, to show one's ivories. [Slang] Ivory black. See under Black, n.  -- Ivory gull (Zoöl.), a white Arctic gull (Larus eburneus).  -- Ivory nut (Bot.), the nut of a species of palm, the Phytephas macroarpa, often as large as a hen's egg. When young the seed contains a fluid, which gradually hardness into a whitish, close- grained, albuminous substance, resembling the finest ivory in texture and color, whence it is called vegetable ivory. It is wrought into various articles, as buttons, chessmen, etc. The palm is found in New Grenada. A smaller kind is the fruit of the Phytephas microarpa. The nuts are known in commerce as Corosso nuts.  -- Ivory palm (Bot.), the palm tree which produces ivory nuts.  -- Ivory shell (Zoöl.), any species of Eburna, a genus of marine gastropod shells, having a smooth surface, usually white with red or brown spots.  -- Vegetable ivory, the meat of the ivory nut. See Ivory nut (above).  IVORY-BILL I"vo*ry-bill`, n. (Zoöl.)  A large, handsome, North American woodpecker (Campephilus principalis), having a large, sharp, ivory-colored beak. Its general color is glossy black, with white secondaries, and a white dorsal stripe. The male has a large, scarlet crest. It is now rare, and found only in the Gulf States. 

IVORYTYPE:  A picture produced by superposing a very light print, rendered translucent by varnish, and tinted upon the back, upon a stronger print, so as to give the effect of a photograph in natural colors; -- called also hellenotype. Knight. 

IVY:  A plant of the genus Hedera (H. helix), common in Europe. Its leaves are evergreen, dark, smooth, shining, and mostly five-pointed; the flowers yellowish and small; the berries black or yellow. The stem clings to walls and trees by rootlike fibers. Direct The clasping ivy where to climb. Milton. Ye myrtles brown, with ivy never sere. Milton. American ivy. (Bot.) See Virginia creeper.  -- English ivy (Bot.), a popular name in America for the ivy proper (Hedera helix).  -- German ivy (Bot.), a creeping plant, with smooth, succulent stems, and fleshy, light-green leaves; a species of Senecio (S. scandens).  -- Ground ivy. (Bot.) Gill (Nepeta Glechoma).  -- Ivy bush. (Bot.) See Mountain laurel, under Mountain.  -- Ivy owl (Zoöl.), the barn owl.  -- Ivy tod (Bot.), the ivy plant. Tennyson.  -- Japanese ivy (Bot.), a climbing plant (Ampelopsis tricuspidata), closely related to the Virginia creeper.  -- Poison ivy (Bot.), an American woody creeper (Rhus Toxicodendron), with trifoliate leaves, and greenish-white berries. It is exceedingly poisonous to the touch for most persons.  -- To pipe in an ivy leaf, to console one's self as best one can. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- West Indian ivy, a climbing plant of the genus Marcgravia.  IVY-MANTLED I"vy-man`tled, a.  Covered with ivy. 

IWIS:  Indeed; truly. See Ywis. [Written also iwys, iwisse, etc.] [Obs.] Ascham.  I. W. W. I. W. W. (Abbrev.)  Industrial Workers of the World (the name of two American labor organizations, one of which advocates syndicalism). 

IXIA:  A South African bulbous plant of the Iris family, remarkable for the brilliancy of its flowers. 

IXODES:  A genus of parasitic Acarina, which includes various species of ticks. See Tick, the insect. 

IXODIAN:  A tick of the genus Ixodes, or the family Ixodidæ.  IXTLE; IXTLI Ix"tle, Ix"tli, n. (Bot.)  A Mexican name for a variety of Agave rigida, which furnishes a strong coarse fiber; also, the fiber itself, which is called also pita, and Tampico fiber. [Written also istle.]  IXTLE; IXTIL Ix"tle Ix"til, n.  The fine, soft fiber of the bromeliaceous plant Bromelia sylvestris. 

IZARD:  A variety of the chamois found in the Pyrenees.  -IZE -ize. Etym: [F. -iser, L. -izare, Gr.  A verb suffix signifying to make, to do, to practice; as apologize, baptize, theorize, tyrannize.  Note: In the case of certain words the spelling with -ise (after analogy with F. -iser) is the usual form; as, catechise, criticise. With regard to most words, however, which have this suffix there is a diversity of usage, some authorities spelling -ise, others (as in this book) -ize. 

IZEDI:  One of an Oriental religious sect which worships Satan or the Devil. The Izedis or Yezdis, the so-called Devil worshipers, still remain a numerous though oppressed people in Mesopotamia and adjacent countries. Tylor. 

IZEDISM:  The religion of the Izedis. 

IZZARD:  See Izard. 

IZZARD:  The letter z; -- formerly so called. 

J:  . J is the tenth letter of the English alphabet. It is a later variant form of the Roman letter I, used to express a consonantal sound, that is, originally, the sound of English y in yet. The forms J and I have, until a recent time, been classed together, and they have been used interchangeably.  Note: In medical prescriptions j is still used in place of i at the end of a number, as a Roman numeral; as, vj, xij. J is etymologically most closely related to i, y, g; as in jot, iota; jest, gesture; join, jugular, yoke. See I. J is a compound vocal consonant, nearly equivalent in sound to dzh. It is exactly the same as g in gem. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 179, 211, 239.  JAAL GOAT Jaal" goat`. (Zoöl.)  A species of wild goat (Capra Nubiana) found in the mountains of Abyssinia, Upper Egypt, and Arabia; -- called also beden, and jaela. 

JAB:  To thrust; to stab; to punch. See Job, v. t. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.] 

JAB:  A thrust or stab. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.] 

JABBER:  To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to utter gibberish or nonsense; to chatter. Swift. 

JABBER:  To utter rapidly or indistinctly; to gabble; as, to jabber French. Addison. 

JABBER:  Rapid or incoherent talk, with indistinct utterance; gibberish. Swift. 

JABBER:  One who jabbers. 

JABBERER:  One who jabbers. 

JABBERINGLY:  In a jabbering manner. 

JABBERMENT:  Jabber. [R.] Milton. 

JABBERNOWL:  Same as Jobbernowl. 

JABIRU:  One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria and Xenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits.  Note: The American jabiru (Mycteria Americana) is white, with the head and neck black and nearly bare of feathers. The East Indian and Australian (Xenorhynchus Australis) has the neck, head, and back covered with glossy, dark green feathers, changing on the head to purple. The African jabiru (Mycteria, or Ephippiorhynchus, Senegalensis) has the neck, head, wing coverts, and tail, black, and is called also saddle-billed stork. 

JABORANDI:  The native name of a South American rutaceous shrub (Pilocarpus pennatifolius). The leaves are used in medicine as an diaphoretic and sialogogue. 

JABORINE:  An alkaloid found in jaborandi leaves, from which it is extracted as a white amorphous substance. In its action it resembles atropine. 

JACAL:  In Mexico and the southwestern United States, a kind of plastered house or hut, usually made by planting poles or timber in the ground, filling in between them with screen work or wickerwork, and daubing one or both sides with mud or adobe mortar; also, this method of construction. 

JACAMAR:  Any one of numerous species of tropical American birds of the genus Galbula and allied genera. They are allied to the kingfishers, but climb on tree trunks like nuthatches, and feed upon insects. Their colors are often brilliant. 

JACANA:  Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana and several allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They are able to run about over floating water weeds by means of their very long, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird.  Note: The most common South American species is Jacana spinosa. The East Indian or pheasant jacana (Hydrophasianus chirurgus) is remarkable for having four very long, curved, middle tail feathers. 

JACARE:  A cayman. See Yacare. 

JACCHUS:  The common marmoset (Hapale vulgaris). Formerly, the name was also applied to other species of the same genus. 

JACCONET:  See Jaconet. 

JACENT:  Lying at length; as, the jacent posture. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. 

JACINTH:  See Hyacinth. Tennyson. 

JACK:  A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the East Indies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs in having its leaves entire. The fruit is of great size, weighing from thirty to forty pounds, and through its soft fibrous matter are scattered the seeds, which are roasted and eaten. The wood is of a yellow color, fine grain, and rather heavy, and is much used in cabinetwork. It is also used for dyeing a brilliant yellow. [Written also jak.] 

JACK:  A coarse and cheap mediæval coat of defense, esp. one made of leather. Their horsemen are with jacks for most part clad. Sir J. Harrington. 

JACK:  A pitcher or can of waxed leather; -- called also black jack. [Obs.] Dryden. 

JACK:  To hunt game at night by means of a jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4, n. 

JACK:  To move or lift, as a house, by means of a jack or jacks. See 2d Jack, n., 5.  JACK-A-DANDY Jack`-a-dan"dy, n.  A little dandy; a little, foppish, impertinent fellow. 

JACKAL:  Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabiting Africa and Asia, related to the dog and wolf. They are cowardly, nocturnal, and gregarious. They feed largely on carrion, and are noted for their piercing and dismal howling.  Note: The common species of Southern Asia (Canis aureus) is yellowish gray, varied with brown on the shoulders, haunches, and legs. The common African species (C. anthus) is darker in color.  2. One who does mean work for another's advantage, as jackals were once thought to kill game which lions appropriated. [Colloq.] Ld. Lytton.  JACK-A-LENT Jack"-a-lent, n.  A small stuffed puppet to be pelted in Lent; hence, a simple fellow. 

JACKANAPES:  A young man living as an apprentice on a sheep station, or otherwise engaged in acquainting himself with colonial life. [Colloq., Australia] 

JACKAROO:  To be a jackaroo; to pass one's time as a jackaroo. [Colloq., Australia] 

JACKDAW:  See Daw, n. 

JACKEEN:  A drunken, dissolute fellow. [Ireland] S. C. Hall. 

JACKET:  In ordnance, a strengthening band surrounding and reënforcing the tube in which the charge is fired.  4. A garment resembling a waistcoat lined with cork, to serve as a life preserver; -- called also cork jacket. Blue jacket. (Naut.) See under Blue.  -- Steam jacket, a space filled with steam between an inner and an outer cylinder, or between a casing and a receptacle, as a kettle.  -- To dust one's jacket, to give one a beating. [Colloq.] 

JACKETED:  Wearing, or furnished with, a jacket. 

JACKETING:  The material of a jacket; as, nonconducting jacketing.  JACK KETCH Jack" Ketch". Etym: [Perh. fr. Jack, the proper name + Prov. E. ketch a hangman, fr. ketch, for catch to seize; but see the citations below.]  A public executioner, or hangman. [Eng.] The manor of Tyburn was formerly held by Richard Jaquett, where felons for a long time were executed; from whence we have Jack Ketch. Lloyd's MS., British Museum. [Monmouth] then accosted John Ketch, the executioner, a wretch who had butchered many brave and noble victims, and whose name has, during a century and a half, been vulgarly given to all who have succeeded him in his odious office. Macaulay. 

JACKKNIFE:  A large, strong clasp knife for the pocket; a pocket knife.  JACK-'-LANTERN Jack"-o'-lan`tern, n.  See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack. 

JACKMAN:  See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack. JACKPOT Jackpot  1. (a) See "jack pot" under jack; (b) any larger-than-usual gambling prize formed by the accumulation of unwon bets[=MW10 1(a)(2) and 1(c)]; (c) the highest gambling prize awarded in a gambling game in which smaller prizes are also awarded, especially such a prize on a slot machine.  2. (a) An unusually large success in an enterprise, either unexpected or unpredictable, esp. one providing a great financial benefit. hit the jackpotto receive an unexpectedly large (or the largest possible) benefit from an enterprise. 

JACKPUDDING:  A merry-andrew; a buffoon. Milton. 

JACKSAW:  The merganser. 

JACKSCREW:  A jack in which a screw is used for lifting, or exerting pressure. See Illust. of 2d Jack, n., 5. 

JACKSLAVE:  A low servant; a mean fellow. Shak. 

JACKSMITH:  A smith who makes jacks. See 2d Jack, 4, c. Dryden. 

JACKSTAY:  A rail of wood or iron stretching along a yard of a vessel, to which the sails are fastened. 

JACKWOOD:  Wood of the jack (Artocarpus integrifolia), used in cabinetwork. 

JACOB:  A Hebrew patriarch (son of Isaac, and ancestor of the Jews), who in a vision saw a ladder reaching up to heaven (Gen. xxviii. 12); -- also called Israel. And Jacob said . . . with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now I am become two bands. Gen. xxxii. 9, 10. Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. Gen. xxxii. 28. Jacob's ladder. (a) (Bot.) A perennial herb of the genus Polemonium (P. coeruleum), having corymbs of drooping flowers, usually blue. Gray. (b) (Naut.) A rope ladder, with wooden steps, for going aloft. R. H. Dana, Jr. (c) (Naut.) A succession of short cracks in a defective spar.  -- Jacob's membrane. See Retina.  -- Jacob's staff. (a) A name given to many forms of staff or weapon, especially in the Middle Ages; a pilgrim's staff. [Obs.] Spenser. (b) (Surveying) See under Staff.  JACOBAEAN LILY Jac`o*bæ"an lil"y. Etym: [See Jacobean.] (Bot.)  A bulbous plant (Amaryllis, or Sprekelia, formosissima) from Mexico. It bears a single, large, deep, red, lilylike flower. [Written also Jacobean.]  JACOBEAN; JACOBIAN Ja*co"be*an, Ja*co"bi*an, a. Etym: [From L. Jacobus James. See 2d Jack.]  Of or pertaining to a style of architecture and decoration in the time of James the First, of England. "A Jacobean table." C. L. Eastlake. 

JACOBIN:  A Dominican friar; -- so named because, before the French Revolution, that order had a convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris.  2. One of a society of violent agitators in France, during the revolution of 1789, who held secret meetings in the Jacobin convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris, and concerted measures to control the proceedings of the National Assembly. Hence: A plotter against an existing government; a turbulent demagogue.  3. (Zoöl.)  A fancy pigeon, in which the feathers of the neck form a hood, -- whence the name. The wings and tail are long, and the beak moderately short. 

JACOBIN:  Same as Jacobinic. 

JACOBINE:  A Jacobin.  JACOBINIC; JACOBINICAL Jac`o*bin"ic, Jac`o*bin"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the Jacobins of France; revolutionary; of the nature of, or characterized by, Jacobinism. Burke.  -- Jac`o*bin"ic*al*ly, adv. 

JACOBINISM:  The principles of the Jacobins; violent and factious opposition to legitimate government. Under this new stimulus, Burn's previous Jacobitism passed towards the opposite, but not very distant, extreme of Jacobinism. J. C. Shairp. 

JACOBINIZE:  To taint with, or convert to, Jacobinism. France was not then jacobinized. Burke. 

JACOBITE:  A partisan or adherent of James the Second, after his abdication, or of his descendants, an opposer of the revolution in 1688 in favor of William and Mary. Macaulay.  2. (Eccl.)  One of the sect of Syrian Monophysites. The sect is named after Jacob Baradæus, its leader in the sixth century. 

JACOBITE:  Of or pertaining to the Jacobites.  JACOBITIC; JACOBITICAL Jac`o*bit"ic, Jac`o*bit"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the Jacobites; characterized by Jacobitism.  -- Jac`o*bit"ic*al*ly, adv. 

JACOBITISM:  The principles of the Jacobites. Mason. 

JACOBUS:  An English gold coin, of the value of twenty-five shillings sterling, struck in the reign of James I. 

JACONET:  A thin cotton fabric, between and muslin, used for dresses, neckcloths, etc. [Written also jacconet.] 

JACQUARD:  Pertaining to, or invented by, Jacquard, a French mechanician, who died in 1834. Jacquard apparatus or arrangement, a device applied to looms for weaving figured goods, consisting of mechanism controlled by a chain of variously perforated cards, which cause the warp threads to be lifted in the proper succession for producing the required figure.  -- Jacquard card, one of the perforated cards of a Jacquard apparatus.  -- Jackquard loom, a loom with Jacquard apparatus. 

JACQUEMINOT:  A half-hardy, deep crimson rose of the remontant class; -- so named after General Jacqueminot, of France. 

JACQUERIE:  The name given to a revolt of French peasants against the nobles in 1358, the leader assuming the contemptuous title, Jacques Bonhomme, given by the nobles to the peasantry. Hence, any revolt of peasants. 

JACTANCY:  A boasting; a bragging. [Obs.] 

JACTATION:  A throwing or tossing of the body; a shaking or agitation. Sir. W. Temple. 

JACTITATION:  Vain boasting or assertions repeated to the prejudice of another's right; false claim. Mozley & W.  2. (Med.)  A frequent tossing or moving of the body; restlessness, as in delirium. Dunglison. Jactitation of marriage (Eng. Eccl. Law), a giving out or boasting by a party that he or she is married to another, whereby a common reputation of their matrimony may ensue. Blackstone. 

JACULABLE:  Fit for throwing. [Obs.] 

JACULATE:  To throw or cast, as a dart; to throw out; to emit. 

JACULATION:  The act of tossing, throwing, or hurling, as spears. Hurled to and fro with jaculation dire. Milton. 

JACULATOR:  The archer fish (Toxotes jaculator). 

JACULATORY:  Darting or throwing out suddenly; also, suddenly thrown out; uttered in short sentences; ejaculatory; as, jaculatory prayers. Smart. 

JADDING:  See Holing. 

JADE:  A stone, commonly of a pale to dark green color but sometimes whitish. It is very hard and compact, capable of fine polish, and is used for ornamental purposes and for implements, esp. in Eastern countries and among many early peoples.  Note: The general term jade includes nephrite, a compact variety of tremolite with a specific gravity of 3, and also the mineral jadeite, a silicate of alumina and soda, with a specific gravity of 3.3. The latter is the more highly prized and includes the feitsui of the Chinese. The name has also been given to other tough green minerals capable of similar use. 

JADE:  To become weary; to lose spirit. They . . . fail, and jade, and tire in the prosecution. South. 

JADEITE:  See Jade, the stone. 

JADERY:  The tricks of a jade. 

JAEGER:  See Jager. 

JAG:  A cleft or division. Jag bolt, a bolt with a nicked or barbed shank which resists retraction, as when leaded into stone. 

JAG:  To cut into notches or teeth like those of a saw; to notch. [Written also jagg. Jagging iron, a wheel with a zigzag or jagged edge for cutting cakes or pastry into ornamental figures. 

JAG:  A small load, as of hay or grain in the straw, or of ore. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] [Written also jagg.] Forby. 

JAG:  To carry, as a load; as, to jag hay, etc. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.]  JAGANATHA; JAGANATHA Jag`a*nat"ha, Jag`a*nat"ha, n.  See Juggernaut.  JAGANNATH; JAGANNATHA; JUGGERNAUT Jag"an*nath, Jag`an*na"tha, n. Also Jug"ger*naut. [Hind. Jagan-nath lord of the world, Skr. jagannatha.] (Hinduism)  A particular form of Vishnu, or of Krishna, whose chief idol and worship are at Puri, in Orissa. The idol is considered to contain the bones of Krishna and to possess a soul. The principal festivals are the Snanayatra, when the idol is bathed, and the Rathayatra, when the image is drawn upon a car adorned with obscene paintings. Formerly it was erroneously supposed that devotees allowed themselves to be crushed beneath the wheels of this car. It is now known that any death within the temple of Jagannath is considered to render the place unclean, and any spilling of blood in the presence of the idol is a pollution. 

JAGER:  A sharpshooter. See Yager.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any species of gull of the genus Stercorarius. Three species occur on the Atlantic coast. The jagers pursue other species of gulls and force them to disgorge their prey. The two middle tail feathers are usually decidedly longer than the rest. Called also boatswain, and marline-spike bird. The name is also applied to the skua, or Arctic gull (Megalestris skua). 

JAGG:  See Jag. 

JAGGED:  Having jags; having rough, sharp notches, protuberances, or teeth; cleft; laciniate; divided; as, jagged rocks. " Jagged vine leaves' shade." Trench.  -- Jag"ged*ly, adv.  -- Jag"ged*ness, n. 

JAGGER:  One who carries about a small load; a peddler. See 2d Jag. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

JAGGER:  One who, or that which, jags; specifically: (a) jagging iron used for crimping pies, cakes, etc. (b) A toothed chisel. See Jag, v. t. Jagger spring, a spring beneath a seat, and resting on cleats or blocks in the body of a vehicle. Knight. 

JAGGERY:  Raw palm sugar, made in the East Indies by evaporating the fresh juice of several kinds of palm trees, but specifically that of the palmyra (Borassus flabelliformis). [Written also jagghery.]  JAGGERY PALM Jag"ger*y palm.  An East Indian palm (Caryota urens) having leaves pinnate with wedge-shaped divisions, the petiole very stout. It is the principal source of jaggery, and is often cultivated for ornament. 

JAGGY:  Having jags; set with teeth; notched; uneven; as, jaggy teeth. Addison. 

JAGHIR:  A village or district the government and revenues of which are assigned to some person, usually in consideration of some service to be rendered, esp. the maintenance of troops. [Written also jaghire, jagir, etc.] [India] Whitworth. 

JAGHIRDAR:  The holder of a jaghir.  JAGUA PALM Ja"gua palm`. Etym: [Sp. jagua the fruit of the jagua palm.] (Bot.)  A great Brazilian palm (Maximiliana regia), having immense spathes which are used for baskets and tubs. 

JAGUAR:  A large and powerful feline animal (Felis onca), ranging from Texas and Mexico to Patagonia. It is usually brownish yellow, with large, dark, somewhat angular rings, each generally inclosing one or two dark spots. It is chiefly arboreal in its habits. Called also the American tiger. 

JAGUARONDI:  A South American wild cat (Felis jaguarondi), having a long, slim body and very short legs. Its color is grayish brown, varied with a blackish hue. It is arboreal in its habits and feeds mostly on birds. 

JAH:  Jehovah. Ps. lxviii. 4.  JAHVIST; JAHVISTIC Jah"vist, n., Jah*vis"tic, a.  See Jehovist, Jehovistic. 

JAIL:  A kind of prison; a building for the confinement of persons held in lawful custody, especially for minor offenses or with reference to some future judicial proceeding. [Written also gaol.] This jail I count the house of liberty. Milton. Jail bird, a prisoner; one who has been confined in prison. [Slang] - - Jail delivery, the release of prisoners from jail, either legally or by violence.  -- Jail delivery commission. See under Gaol.  -- Jail fever (Med.), typhus fever, or a disease resembling it, generated in jails and other places crowded with people; -- called also hospital fever, and ship fever.  -- Jail liberties, or Jail limits, a space or district around a jail within which an imprisoned debtor was, on certain conditions, allowed to go at large. Abbott.  -- Jail lock, a peculiar form of padlock; -- called also Scandinavian lock. 

JAIL:  To imprison. [R.] T. Adams (1614). [Bolts] that jail you from free life. Tennyson. 

JAILER:  The keeper of a jail or prison. [Written also jailor, gaoler.]  JAIN; JAINA Jain, Jai"na, n. Etym: [Skr. Jaina, fr. Jina, a proper name, fr. jina victorious.]  One of a numerous sect in British India, holding the tenets of Jainism. 

JAINISM:  The heterodox Hindoo religion, of which the most striking features are the exaltation of saints or holy mortals, called jins, above the ordinary Hindoo gods, and the denial of the divine origin and infallibility of the Vedas. It is intermediate between Brahmanism and Buddhism, having some things in common with each. 

JAIROU:  The ahu or Asiatic gazelle. 

JAK:  see Ils Jack. 

JAKES:  A privy. Shak. 

JAKIE:  A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa), remarkable for having a tadpole larger than the adult, and hence called also paradoxical frog. 

JAKO:  An African parrot (Psittacus erithacus), very commonly kept as a cage bird; -- called also gray parrot. 

JAKWOOD:  See Jackwood. 

JALAP:  The tubers of the Mexican plant Ipomoea purga (or Exogonium purga), a climber much like the morning-glory. The abstract, extract, and powder, prepared from the tubers, are well known purgative medicines. Other species of Ipomoea yield several inferior kinds of jalap, as the I. Orizabensis, and I. tuberosa. False jalap, the root of Mirabilis Jalapa, four-o'clock, or marvel of Peru. 

JALAPIC:  Of or pertaining to jalap. 

JALAPIN:  A glucoside found in the stems of the jalap plant and scammony. It is a strong purgative. 

JALONS:  Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks and signals. Farrow. 

JALOUSIE:  A Venetian or slatted inside window blind. 

JALOUSIED:  Furnished with jalousies; as, jalousied porches. 

JAM:  A kind of frock for children. 

JAM:  See Jamb. 

JAM:  To bring (a vessel) so close to the wind that half her upper sails are laid aback. W. C. Russell. 

JAM:  A preserve of fruit boiled with sugar and water; as, raspberry jam; currant jam; grape jam. Jam nut. See Check nut, under Check.  -- Jam weld (Forging), a butt weld. See under Butt. 

JAMACINA:  Jamaicine. 

JAMADAR:  Same as Jemidar. 

JAMAICA:  One of the West India is islands. Jamaica ginger, a variety of ginger, called also white ginger, prepared in Jamaica from the best roots, which are deprived of their epidermis and dried separately.  -- Jamaica pepper, allspice.  -- Jamaica rose (Bot.), a West Indian melastomaceous shrub (Blakea trinervis), with showy pink flowers. 

JAMAICAN:  Of or pertaining to Jamaica.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Jamaica. 

JAMAICINE:  An alkaloid said to be contained in the bark of Geoffroya inermis, a leguminous tree growing in Jamaica and Surinam; -- called also jamacina. Watts. 

JAMB:  The vertical side of any opening, as a door or fireplace; hence, less properly, any narrow vertical surface of wall, as the of a chimney-breast or of a pier, as distinguished from its face. Gwilt.  2. (Mining)  Any thick mass of rock which prevents miners from following the lode or vein. 

JAMB:  See Jam, v. t. 

JAMBEE:  A fashionable cane. [Obs.] Tatler.  JAMBES; JAMBEUX Jambes, Jam"beux, n. pl. Etym: [From F. jambe a leg: cf. OF. jambiere. See Jamb, n.] (Ancient Armor)  In the Middle Ages, armor for the legs below the knees. [Written also giambeux.] Chaucer. 

JAMBOLANA:  A myrtaceous tree of the West Indies and tropical America (Calyptranthes Jambolana), with astringent bark, used for dyeing. It bears an edible fruit.  JAMBOOL; JAMBUL Jam"bool, Jam"bul, n. [Hind. jambu, jambul, prop., the rose-apple tree or its fruit, fr. Skr. jambu, jambu.]  The Java plum; also, a drug obtained from its bark and seeds, used as a remedy for diabetes. 

JAMBOOREE:  A noisy or unrestrained carousal or frolic; a spree. [Slang] Kipling.  A Calcutta-made pony cart had been standing in front of the manager's bungalow when Raja Singh started on his jamboree. W. A. Fraser. 

JAMDANI:  A silk fabric, with a woven pattern of sprigs of flowers. [Written also jamdanee.] Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

JAMESONITE:  A steel-gray mineral, of metallic luster, commonly fibrous massive. It is a sulphide of antimony and lead, with a little iron.  JAMES'S POWDER James"'s pow`der. (Med.)  Antimonial powder, first prepared by Dr. James, ar English physician; -- called also fever powder.  JAMESTOWN WEED James"town` weed`. (Bot.)  The poisonous thorn apple or stramonium (Datura stramonium), a rank weed early noticed at Jamestown, Virginia. See Datura.  Note: This name is often corrupted into jimson, jimpson, and gympsum. 

JAN:  One of intermediate order between angels and men. 

JANE:  A silly, pert girl; -- corresponding to jackanapes. Massinger. 

JANGLE:  To cause to sound harshly or inharmoniously; to produce discordant sounds with. Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune, and harsh. Shak. 

JANGLERESS:  A female prater or babbler. 

JANGLERY:  Jangling. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JANGLING:  Producing discordant sounds. "A jangling noise." Milton. 

JANISSARY:  See Janizary. 

JANITOR:  A door-keeper; a porter; one who has the care of a public building, or a building occupied for offices, suites of rooms, etc.  JANITRESS; JANITRIX Jan"i*tress, Jan"i*trix, n. Etym: [L. janitrix. See Janitor.]  A female janitor. 

JANIZAR:  A janizary. [R.] Byron. 

JANIZARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the janizaries, or their government. Burke. 

JANIZARY:  A soldier of a privileged military class, which formed the nucleus of the Turkish infantry, but was suppressed in 1826. [written also janissary.] 

JANKER:  A long pole on two wheels, used in hauling logs. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

JANSENISM:  The doctrine of Jansen regarding free will and divine grace. 

JANSENIST:  A follower of Cornelius Jansen, a Roman Catholic bishop of Ypres, in Flanders, in the 17th century, who taught certain doctrines denying free will and the possibility of resisting divine grace. 

JANT:  See Jaunt. 

JANTHINA:  See Ianthina. 

JANTILY:  See Jauntily. 

JANTINESS:  See Jauntiness. 

JANTU:  A machine of great antiquity, used in Bengal for raising water to irrigate land. Knight. 

JANTY:  See Jaunty. 

JANUARY:  The first month of the year, containing thirty-one days.  Note: Before the adoption of New Style, the commencement of the year was usually reckoned from March 25. 

JANUS:  A Latin deity represented with two faces looking in opposite directions. Numa is said to have dedicated to Janus the covered passage at Rome, near the Forum, which is usually called the Temple of Janus. This passage was open in war and closed in peace. Dr. W. Smith. Janus cloth, a fabric having both sides dressed, the sides being of different colors, -- used for reversible garments.  JANUS-FACED Ja"nus-faced`, a.  Double-faced; deceitful. Janus-faced lock, one having duplicate faces so as to go upon a right or a left hand door, the key entering on either side indifferently. Knight.  JANUS-HEADED Ja"nus-head`ed, a.  Double-headed. 

JAPAN:  Work varnished and figured in the Japanese manner; also, the varnish or lacquer used in japanning. 

JAPAN:  Of or pertaining to Japan, or to the lacquered work of that country; as, Japan ware. Japan allspice (Bot.), a spiny shrub from Japan (Chimonanthus fragrans), related to the Carolina allspice.  -- Japan black (Chem.), a quickly drying black lacquer or varnish, consisting essentially of asphaltum dissolved in naphtha or turpentine, and used for coating ironwork; -- called also Brunswick black, Japan lacquer, or simply Japan.  -- Japan camphor, ordinary camphor brought from China or Japan, as distinguished from the rare variety called borneol or Borneo camphor.  -- Japan clover, or Japan pea (Bot.), a cloverlike plant (Lespedeza striata) from Eastern Asia, useful for fodder, first noticed in the Southern United States about 1860, but now become very common. During the Civil War it was called variously Yankee clover and Rebel clover.  -- Japan earth. See Catechu.  -- Japan ink, a kind of writing ink, of a deep, glossy black when dry.  -- Japan varnish, a varnish prepared from the milky juice of the Rhus vernix, a small Japanese tree related to the poison sumac. 

JAPAN:  A branch of the equatorial current of the Pacific, washing the eastern coast of Formosa and thence flowing northeastward past Japan and merging into the easterly drift of the North Pacific; -- called also Kuro-Siwo, or Black Stream, in allusion to the deep blue of its water. It is similar in may ways to the Gulf Stream. 

JAPANESE:  Of or pertaining to Japan, or its inhabitants. 

JAPANESE:  The language of the people of Japan. 

JAPANNED:  Treated, or coated, with varnish in the Japanese manner. Japanned leather,leather treated with coatings of Japan varnish, and dried in a stove. Knight. 

JAPANNING:  The art or act of varnishing in the Japanese manner. 

JAPANNISH:  After the manner of the Japanese; resembling japanned articles. Carlyle. 

JAPE:  To jest; to play tricks; to jeer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JAPE:  To mock; to trick. Chaucer. I have not been putting a jape upon you. Sir W. Scott. The coy giggle of the young lady to whom he has imparted his latest merry jape. W. Besant. 

JAPER:  A jester; a buffoon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JAPERY:  Jesting; buffoonery. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JAPHETHITE:  A Japhetite. Kitto. 

JAPHETIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, Japheth, one of the sons of Noah; as, Japhetic nations, the nations of Europe and Northern Asia; Japhetic languages. 

JAPHETITE:  A descendant of Japheth. 

JAPONICA:  A species of Camellia (Camellia Japonica), a native of Japan, bearing beautiful red or white flowers. Many other genera have species of the same name. 

JAPONISM:  A quality, idiom, or peculiarity characteristic of the Japanese or their products, esp. in art. 

JAR:  A turn. [Only in phrase.] On the jar, on the turn, ajar, as a door. 

JAR:  In deep well boring, a device resembling two long chain links, for connecting a percussion drill to the rod or rope which works it, so that the drill is driven down by impact and is jerked loose when jammed. 

JARARACA:  A poisonous serpent of Brazil (Bothrops jararaca), about eighteen inches long, and of a dusky, brownish color, variegated with red and black spots. 

JARBLE:  To wet; to bemire. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

JARDINIERE:  An ornamental stand or receptacle for plants, flowers, etc., used as a piece of decorative furniture in room. 

JARDS:  A callous tumor on the leg of a horse, below the hock. 

JARGLE:  To emit a harsh or discordant sound. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

JARGON:  Confused, unintelligible language; gibberish; hence, an artificial idiom or dialect; cant language; slang. "A barbarous jargon." Macaulay. "All jargon of the schools." Prior. The jargon which serves the traffickers. Johnson. 

JARGON:  To utter jargon; to emit confused or unintelligible sounds; to talk unintelligibly, or in a harsh and noisy manner. The noisy jay, Jargoning like a foreigner at his food. Longfellow. 

JARGON:  A variety of zircon. See Zircon. 

JARGONELLE:  A variety of pear which ripens early. 

JARGONIC:  Of or pertaining to the mineral jargon. 

JARGONIST:  One addicted to jargon; one who uses cant or slang. Macaulay. 

JARL:  A chief; an earl; in English history, one of the leaders in the Danish and Norse invasions. Longfellow. 

JARNUT:  An earthnut. Dr. Prior. 

JAROSITE:  An ocher-yellow mineral occurring on minute rhombohedral crystals. It is a hydrous sulphate of iron and potash.  JAR-OWL Jar"-owl`, n. (Zoöl.)  The goatsucker. 

JARRAH:  The mahoganylike wood of the Australian Eucalyptus marginata. See Eucalyptus. 

JARRING:  Shaking; disturbing; discordant. "A jarring sound." Dryden. 

JARRINGLY:  In a jarring or discordant manner.  JARVEY; JARVY Jar"vey, Jar"vy, n.  1. The driver of a hackney coach. [Slang, Eng.] Carlyle.  2. A hackney coach. [Slang, Eng.] The litter at the bottom of the jarvy. T. Hook. 

JASEY:  A wig; -- so called, perhaps, from being made of, or resembling, Jersey yarn. Thackeray. 

JASHAWK:  A young hawk. Booth. 

JASMINE:  A shrubby plant of the genus Jasminum, bearing flowers of a peculiarly fragrant odor. The J. officinale, common in the south of Europe, bears white flowers. The Arabian jasmine is J. Sambac, and, with J. angustifolia, comes from the East Indies. The yellow false jasmine in the Gelseminum sempervirens (see Gelsemium). Several other plants are called jasmine in the West Indies, as species of Calotropis and Faramea. [Written also jessamine.] Cape jasmine, or Cape jessamine, the Gardenia florida, a shrub with fragrant white flowers, a native of China, and hardy in the Southern United States. 

JASP:  Jasper. [Obs.] Spenser. 

JASPACHATE:  Agate jasper. [Obs.] 

JASPE:  Having the surface decorated with cloudings and streaks, somewhat as if imitating jasper. 

JASPER:  An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of red, yellow, and other dull colors, breaking with a smooth surface. It admits of a high polish, and is used for vases, seals, snuff boxes, etc. When the colors are in stripes or bands, it is called striped or banded jasper. The Egyptian pebble is a brownish yellow jasper. Jasper opal, a yellow variety of opal resembling jasper.  -- Jasper ware, a delicate kind of earthenware invented by Josiah Wedgwood. It is usually white, but is capable of receiving color. 

JASPERATED:  mixed with jasper; containing particles of jasper; as, jasperated agate. 

JASPERIZE:  To convert into, or make to resemble, jasper. Polished specimens of jasperized and agatized woods. Pop. Sci. Monthly. 

JASPERY:  Of the nature of jasper; mixed with jasper.  JASPIDEAN; JASPIDEOUS Jas*pid"e*an, Jas*pid"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. iaspideus. See Jasper.]  Consisting of jasper, or containing jasper; jaspery; jasperlike. 

JASPILITE:  A compact siliceous rock resembling jasper. 

JASPOID:  Resembling jasper. [R.] 

JASPONYX:  An onyx, part or all of whose layers consist of jasper. 

JATROPHIC:  Of or pertaining to physic nuts, the seeds of plants of the genus Jatropha. 

JAUNCE:  To ride hard; to jounce. [Obs.] Spurr'd, galled and tired by jauncing Bolingbroke. Shak. 

JAUNDICE:  A morbid condition, characterized by yellowness of the eyes, skin, and urine, whiteness of the fæces, constipation, uneasiness in the region of the stomach, loss of appetite, and general languor and lassitude. It is caused usually by obstruction of the biliary passages and consequent damming up, in the liver, of the bile, which is then absorbed into the blood. Blue jaundice. See Cyanopathy. 

JAUNDICE:  To affect with jaundice; to color by prejudice or envy; to prejudice. The envy of wealth jaundiced his soul. Ld. Lytton. 

JAUNT:  To jolt; to jounce. [Obs.] Bale. 

JAUNTILY:  In a jaunty manner. 

JAUNTINESS:  The quality of being jaunty. That jauntiness of air I was once master of. Addison. 

JAUNTY:  Airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected or fantastical manner. 

JAVANESE:  Of or pertaining to Java, or to the people of Java.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or natives of Java. 

JAVEL:  A vagabond. [Obs.] Spenser. 

JAVELIN:  A sort of light spear, to be thrown or cast by thew hand; anciently, a weapon of war used by horsemen and foot soldiers; now used chiefly in hunting the wild boar and other fierce game. Flies the javelin swifter to its mark, Launched by the vigor of a Roman arm Addison. 

JAVELIN:  To pierce with a javelin. [R.] Tennyson. 

JAVELINIER:  A soldier armed with a javelin. Holland. 

JAW:  The inner end of a boom or gaff, hollowed in a half circle so as to move freely on a mast.  5.  Impudent or abusive talk. [Slang] H. Kingsley. Jaw bit (Railroad), a bar across the jaws of a pedestal underneath an axle box.  -- Jaw breaker, a word difficult to pronounce. [Obs.] -- Jaw rope (Naut.), a rope which holds the jaws of a gaff to the mast.  -- Jaw tooth, a molar or grinder; a back tooth. 

JAW:  To scold; to clamor. [Law] Smollett. 

JAW:  To assail or abuse by scolding. [Law] 

JAWBONE:  The bone of either jaw; a maxilla or a mandible. 

JAWED:  Having jaws; -- chiefly in composition; as, lantern-jawed. "Jawed like a jetty." Skelton.  JAW-FALL Jaw"-fall`, n.  Depression of the jaw; hence, depression of spirits. M. Griffith (1660).  JAW-FALLEN Jaw"-fall`en, a.  Dejected; chopfallen. 

JAWFOOT:  See Maxilliped. 

JAWING:  Scolding; clamorous or abusive talk. [Slang] H. Kingsley. 

JAWN:  See Yawn. [Obs.] Marston. 

JAWY:  Relating to the jaws. Gayton. 

JAY:  Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus, Cyanocitta, and allied genera. They are allied to the crows, but are smaller, more graceful in form, often handsomely colored, and usually have a crest.  Note: The European jay (Garrulus glandarius) is a large and handsomely colored species, having the body pale reddish brown, lighter beneath; tail and wing quills blackish; the primary coverts barred with bright blue and black; throat, tail coverts, and a large spot on the wings, white. Called also jay pie, Jenny jay, and kæ. The common blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata.), and the related species, are brilliantly colored, and have a large erectile crest. The California jay (Aphelocoma Californica), the Florida jay (A. Floridana), and the green jay (Xanthoura luxuosa), of Texas and Mexico, are large, handsome, crested species. The Canada jay (Perisoreus Canadensis), and several allied species, are much plainer and have no crest. See Blue jay, and Whisky jack. Jay thrush (Zoöl.), any one several species of Asiatic singing birds, of the genera Garrulax, Grammatoptila, and related genera of the family Crateropodidæ; as; the white-throated jay thrush (G. albogularis), of India. 

JAYET:  See Jet. [Obs.] 

JAYHAWKER:  A name given to a free-booting, unenlisted, armed man or guerrilla.  Note: [A term of opprobrium used in the war of 1861-65, U. S.] 

JAZEL:  A gem of an azure color. [Obs.] 

JAZERANT:  A coat of defense made of small plates of metal sewed upon linen or the like; also, this kind of armor taken generally; as, a coat of jazerant. 

JEALOUSHOOD:  Jealousy. [Obs.] Shak. 

JEALOUSLY:  In a jealous manner. 

JEALOUSNESS:  State or quality of being jealous. 

JEALOUSY:  The quality of being jealous; earnest concern or solicitude; painful apprehension of rivalship in cases nearly affecting one's happiness; painful suspicion of the faithfulness of husband, wife, or lover. I was jealous for jealousy. Zech. viii. 2. Jealousy is the . . . apprehension of superiority. Shenstone. Whoever had qualities to alarm our jealousy, had excellence to deserve our fondness. Rambler. 

JEAMES:  A footman; a flunky. [Slang, Eng.] Thackeray. 

JEAN:  A twilled cotton cloth. Satin jean, a kind of jean woven smooth and glossy, after the manner of satin. 

JEARS:  See 1st Jeer (b). 

JEAT:  See Jet. [Obs.]  JEDDING AX Jed"ding ax`, n.  A stone mason's tool, having a flat face and a pointed part. Knight. 

JEE:  See Gee. 

JEEL:  A morass; a shallow lake. [Written also jhil.] [India] Whitworth. 

JEER:  An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting or lowering the lower yards of a ship. Jeer capstan (Naut.), an extra capstan usually placed between the foremast and mainmast. 

JEER:  To utter sarcastic or scoffing reflections; to speak with mockery or derision; to use taunting language; to scoff; as, to jeer at a speaker. But when he saw her toy and gibe and jeer. Spenser.  Syn.  -- To sneer; scoff; flout; gibe; mock. 

JEER:  To treat with scoffs or derision; to address with jeers; to taunt; to flout; to mock at. And if we can not jeer them, we jeer ourselves. B. Jonson. 

JEER:  A railing remark or reflection; a scoff; a taunt; a biting jest; a flout; a jibe; mockery. Midas, exposed to all their jeers, Had lost his art, and kept his ears. Swift. 

JEERER:  A scoffer; a railer; a mocker. 

JEERING:  Mocking; scoffing.  -- n.  A mocking utterance.  -- Jeer"ing*ly, adv. 

JEERS:  See 1st Jeer (b). 

JEFFERSONIA:  An American herb with a pretty, white, solitary blossom, and deeply two-cleft leaves (Jeffersonia diphylla); twinleaf. 

JEFFERSONIAN:  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, Thomas Jefferson or his policy or political doctrines. Lowell.  JEFFERSONIAN SIMPLICITY Jeffersonian simplicity.  The absence of pomp or display which Jefferson aimed at in his administration as President (1801-1809), eschewing display or ceremony tending to distinguish the President from the people, as in going to the capital on horseback and with no escort, the abolition of court etiquette and the weekly levee, refusal to recognize titles of honor, etc. 

JEFFERSONITE:  A variety of pyroxene of olive-green color passing into brown. It contains zinc. 

JEG:  See Jig, 6. 

JEHOVAH:  A Scripture name of the Supreme Being, by which he was revealed to the Jews as their covenant God or Sovereign of the theocracy; the "ineffable name" of the Supreme Being, which was not pronounced by the Jews. 

JEHOVISTIC:  Relating to, or containing, Jehovah, as a name of God; -- said of certain parts of the Old Testament, especially of the Pentateuch, in which Jehovah appears as the name of the Deity. See Elohistic. 

JEHU:  A coachman; a driver; especially, one who drives furiously. [Colloq.] 

JEJUNAL:  Pertaining to the jejunum. 

JEJUNITY:  The quality of being jejune; jejuneness. 

JEJUNUM:  The middle division of the small intestine, between the duodenum and ileum; -- so called because usually found empty after death. 

JELERANG:  A large, handsome squirrel (Sciurus Javensis), native of Java and Southern Asia; -- called also Java squirrel. 

JELL:  To jelly. [Colloq.] 

JELLIED:  Brought to the state or consistence of jelly. 

JELLIFY:  To make, or to become, gelatinous; to jelly. -- Jel`li*fi*ca"tion (#), n. 

JELLY:  To become jelly; to come to the state or consistency of jelly. 

JELLYFISH:  Any one of the acalephs, esp. one of the larger species, having a jellylike appearance. See Medusa. 

JEMIDAR:  The chief or leader of a hand or body of persons; esp., in the native army of India, an officer of a rank corresponding to that of lieutenant in the English army. [Written also jemadar, jamadar.]  JEMLAH GOAT Jem"lah goat`. (Zoöl.)  The jharal. 

JEMMINESS:  Spruceness. [Slang, Eng.] Pegge (1814). 

JEMMY:  Spruce. [Slang, Eng.] Smart. 

JENIQUEN:  A Mexican name for the Sisal hemp (Agave rigida, var. Sisalana); also, its fiber. [Written also heniequen.] 

JENITE:  See Yenite. 

JENKINS:  name of contempt for a flatterer of persons high in social or official life; as, the Jenkins employed by a newspaper. [Colloq. Eng. & U.S.] G. W. Curtis. 

JENNET:  A small Spanish horse; a genet. 

JENNETING:  A variety of early apple. See Juneating. [Written also geniting.] 

JENNY:  A familiar name of the European wren. Jenny ass (Zoöl.), a female ass. 

JENNY:  A machine for spinning a number of threads at once, -- used in factories. 

JENTLING:  A fish of the genus Leuciscus; the blue chub of the Danube. 

JEOFAIL:  An oversight in pleading, or the acknowledgment of a mistake or oversight. Blackstone. 

JEOPARD:  To put in jeopardy; to expose to loss or injury; to imperil; to hazard. Sir T. North. A people that jeoparded their lives unto the death. Judg. v. 18.  Syn.  -- To hazard; risk; imperil; endanger; expose. 

JEOPARDER:  One who puts in jeopardy. [R.] 

JEOPARDIZE:  To expose to loss or injury; to risk; to jeopard. That he should jeopardize his willful head Only for spite at me. H. Taylor. 

JEOPARDOUS:  Perilous; hazardous. His goodly, valiant, and jeopardous enterprise. Fuller. -- Jeop"ard*ous*ly, adv. Huloet. 

JEOPARDY:  Exposure to death, loss, or injury; hazard; danger. There came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy. Luke viii. 23. Look to thyself, thou art in jeopardy. Shak.  Syn.  -- Danger; peril; hazard; risk. See Danger. 

JEOPARDY:  To jeopardize. [R.] Thackeray.  JEQUIRITY; JEQUIRITY BEAN Je*quir"i*ty, n., or Je*quir"i*ty bean`. [Prob. fr. a native name.] (Bot.)  The seed of the wild licorice (Abrus precatorius) used by the people of India for beads in rosaries and necklaces, as a standard weight, etc.; -- called also jumble bead. 

JERBOA:  Any small jumping rodent of the genus Dipus, esp. D. Ægyptius, which is common in Egypt and the adjacent countries. The jerboas have very long hind legs and a long tail. [Written also gerboa.]  Note: The name is also applied to other small jumping rodents, as the Pedetes Caffer, of the Cape of Good Hope. Jerboa kangaroo (Zoöl.), small Australian kangaroo (Bettongia penicillata), about the size of a common hare. 

JEREED:  A blunt javelin used by the people of the Levant, especially in mock fights. [Written also jerreed, jerid.] Byron.  JEREMIAD; JEREMIADE Jer`e*mi"ad, Jer`e*mi"ade, n. Etym: [From Jeremiah, the prophet: cf. F. jérémiade.]  A tale of sorrow, disappointment, or complaint; a doleful story; a dolorous tirade; -- generally used satirically. He has prolonged his complaint into an endless jeremiad. Lamb. 

JERFALCON:  The gyrfalcon. 

JERGUER:  See Jerquer. 

JERID:  Same as Jereed. 

JERK:  To cut into long slices or strips and dry in the sun; as, jerk beef. See Charqui. 

JERKER:  A North American river chub (Hybopsis biguttatus). 

JERKIN:  A jacket or short coat; a close waistcoat. Shak. 

JERKIN:  A male gyrfalcon. 

JERKING:  The act of pulling, pushing, or throwing, with a jerk.  -- Jerk"ing*ly, adv. 

JERKINHEAD:  The hipped part of a roof which is hipped only for a part of its height, leaving a truncated gable. 

JERKY:  Moving by jerks and starts; characterized by abrupt transitions; as, a jerky vehicle; a jerky style. 

JERMOONAL:  The Himalayan now partridge. 

JERONYMITE:  One belonging of the mediæval religious orders called Hermits of St. Jerome. [Written also Hieronymite.] 

JEROPIGIA:  See Geropigia. 

JERQUER:  A customhouse officer who searches ships for unentered goods. [Eng.] [Written also jerguer.] 

JERQUING:  The searching of a ship for unentered goods. [Eng.] [Written also jerguer.] 

JERQUING:  The searching of a ship for unentered goods. [Eng.]  JERRY-BUILDER Jer"ry-build`er, n. [Prob. fr. the proper name Jerry, familiar form of Jeremiah.]  A professional builder who erects cheap dwellings of poor materials and unsubstantial and slovenly construction.  JERRY-BUILT Jer"ry-built`, a.  Built hastily and of bad materials; as, jerry-built houses. [Colloq. Eng.] 

JERUSALEM:  The chief city of Palestine, intimately associated with the glory of the Jewish nation, and the life and death of Jesus Christ. Jerusalem artichoke Etym: [Perh. a corrupt. of It. girasole i.e., sunflower, or turnsole. See Gyre, Solar.] (Bot.) (a) An American plant, a perennial species of sunflower (Helianthus tuberosus), whose tubers are sometimes used as food. (b) One of the tubers themselves.  -- Jerusalem cherry (Bot.), the popular name of either of either of two species of Solanum (S. Pseudo-capsicum and S. capsicastrum), cultivated as ornamental house plants. They bear bright red berries of about the size of cherries.  -- Jerusalem oak (Bot.), an aromatic goosefoot (Chenopodium Botrys), common about houses and along roadsides.  -- Jerusalem sage (Bot.), a perennial herb of the Mint family (Phlomis tuberosa).  -- Jerusalem thorn (Bot.), a spiny, leguminous tree (Parkinsonia aculeata), widely dispersed in warm countries, and used for hedges.  -- The New Jerusalem, Heaven; the Celestial City. 

JERVINE:  A poisonous alkaloid resembling veratrine, and found with it in white hellebore (Veratrum album); -- called also jervina. 

JESS:  A short strap of leather or silk secured round the leg of a hawk, to which the leash or line, wrapped round the falconer's hand, was attached when used. See Illust. of Falcon. Like a hawk, which feeling freed From bells and jesses which did let her flight. Spenser. 

JESSAMINE:  Same as Jasmine. 

JESSANT:  Springing up or emerging; -- said of a plant or animal. 

JESSE:  Any representation or suggestion of the genealogy of Christ, in decorative art; as: (a) A genealogical tree represented in stained glass. (b) A candlestick with many branches, each of which bears the name of some one of the descendants of Jesse; -- called also tree of Jesse. Jesse window (Arch.), a window of which the glazing and tracery represent the tree of Jesse. 

JESSED:  Having jesses on, as a hawk. 

JESTFUL:  Given to jesting; full of jokes. 

JESTING:  Sportive; not serious; fit for jests. He will find that these are no jesting matters. Macaulay . 

JESTING:  The act or practice of making jests; joking; pleasantry. Eph. v. 4. 

JESTINGLY:  In a jesting manner. 

JESU:  Jesus. [Poetical]  Jesu, give the weary Calm and sweet repose. S. Baring-Gould. 

JESUIT:  One of a religious order founded by Ignatius Loyola, and approved in 1540, under the title of The Society of Jesus.  Note: The order consists of Scholastics, the Professed, the Spiritual Coadjutors, and the Temporal Coadjutors or Lay Brothers. The Jesuit novice after two years becomes a Scholastic, and takes his first vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience simply. Some years after, at the close of a second novitiate, he takes his second vows and is ranked among the Coadjutors or Professed. The Professed are bound by a fourth vow, from which only the pope can dispense, requiring them to go wherever the pope may send them for missionary duty. The Coadjutors teach in the schools, and are employed in general missionary labors. The Society is governed by a General who holds office for life. He has associated with him "Assistants" (five at the present time), representing different provinces. The Society was first established in the United States in 1807. The Jesuits have displayed in their enterprises a high degree of zeal, learning, and skill, but, by their enemies, have been generally reputed to use art and intrigue in promoting or accomplishing their purposes, whence the words Jesuit, Jesuitical, and the like, have acquired an opprobrious sense.  2. Fig.: A crafty person; an intriguer. Jesuits' bark, Peruvian bark, or the bark of certain species of Cinchona; -- so called because its medicinal properties were first made known in Europe by Jesuit missionaries to South America.  -- Jesuits' drops. See Friar's balsam, under Friar.  -- Jesuits' nut, the European water chestnut.  -- Jesuits' powder, powdered cinchona bark.  -- Jesuits' tea, a Chilian leguminous shrub, used as a tea and medicinally. 

JESUITED:  Conforming to the principles of the Jesuits. Milton. 

JESUITESS:  One of an order of nuns established on the principles of the Jesuits, but suppressed by Pope Urban in 1633.  JESUITIC; JESUITICAL Jes`u*it"ic, Jes`u*it"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. jésuitique.]  1. Of or pertaining to the Jesuits, or to their principles and methods.  2. Designing; cunning; deceitful; crafty; -- an opprobrious use of the word. Dryden. 

JESUITICALLY:  In a jesuitical manner. 

JESUITOCRACY:  Government by Jesuits; also, the whole body of Jesuits in a country. [R.] C. Kingsley. 

JESUITRY:  Jesuitism; subtle argument. [R.] Carlyle. 

JESUS:  The Savior; the name of the Son of God as announced by the angel to his parents; the personal name of Our Lord, in distinction from Christ, his official appellation. Luke i. 31. Thou shalt call his name Jesus; for he shall save his people from their sins. Matt. i. 21.  Note: The form Jesu is often used, esp. in the vocative. Jesu, do thou my soul receive. Keble. The Society of Jesus. See Jesuit. 

JET:  Same as 2d Get. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JET:  A variety of lignite, of a very compact texture and velvet black color, susceptible of a good polish, and often wrought into mourning jewelry, toys, buttons, etc. Formerly called also black amber. Jet ant (Zoöl.), a blackish European ant (Formica fuliginosa), which builds its nest of a paperlike material in the trunks of trees. 

JET:  To spout; to emit in a stream or jet. A dozen angry models jetted steam. Tennyson.  JET-BLACK Jet"-black`, a.  Black as jet; deep black.  JET D'EAU Jet` d'eau", pl. Jets d'eau (. Etym: [F., a throw of water. See Jet a shooting forth.]  A stream of water spouting from a fountain or pipe (especially from one arranged to throw water upward), in a public place or in a garden, for ornament. 

JETERUS:  A yellowness of the parts of plants which are normally green; yellows.  JETSAM; JETSON Jet"sam, Jet"son, n. Etym: [F. jeter to throw: cf. OF. getaison a throwing. Cf. Flotsam, Jettison.]  1. (Mar. Law)  Goods which sink when cast into the sea, and remain under water; -- distinguished from flotsam, goods which float, and ligan, goods which are sunk attached to a buoy.  2. Jettison. See Jettison, 1. 

JETTEAU:  See Jet d'eau. [R.] Addison. 

JETTEE:  See Jetty, n. Burke. 

JETTER:  One who struts; one who bears himself jauntily; a fop. [Obs.] Palsgrave. 

JETTINESS:  The state of being jetty; blackness. Pennant. 

JETTISON:  The throwing overboard of goods from necessity, in order to lighten a vessel in danger of wreck.  2. See Jetsam, 1. 

JETTON:  A metal counter used in playing cards. 

JETTY:  Made of jet, or like jet in color. The people . . . are of a jetty. Sir T. Browne. 

JETTY:  A part of a building that jets or projects beyond the rest, and overhangs the wall below.  2. A wharf or pier extending from the shore.  3. (Hydraul. Engin.)  A structure of wood or stone extended into the sea to influence the current or tide, or to protect a harbor; a mole; as, the Eads system of jetties at the mouth of the Mississippi River. Jetty ad (Naut.), a projecting part at the end of a wharf; the front of a wharf whose side forms one of the cheeks of a dock. 

JETTY:  To jut out; to project. [Obs.] Florio.  JEU D'ESPRIT Jeu" d'es`prit". Etym: [F., play of mind.]  A witticism.  JEUNESSE DOREE Jeu`nesse" do`rée". [F.]  Lit., gilded youth; young people of wealth and fashion, esp. if given to prodigal living; -- in the French Revolution, applied to young men of the upper classes who aided in suppressing the Jacobins after the Reign of Terror. 

JEW:  Originally, one belonging to the tribe or kingdom of Judah; after the return from the Babylonish captivity, any member of the new state; a Hebrew; an Israelite. Jew's frankincense, gum styrax, or benzoin.  -- Jew's mallow (Bot.), an annual herb (Corchorus olitorius) cultivated in Syria and Egypt as a pot herb, and in India for its fiber.  -- Jew's pitch, asphaltum; bitumen.  -- The Wandering Jew, an imaginary personage, who, for his cruelty to the Savior during his passion, is doomed to wander on the earth till Christ's second coming. 

JEWBUSH:  A euphorbiaceous shrub of the genus Pedilanthus (P. tithymaloides), found in the West Indies, and possessing powerful emetic and drastic qualities. 

JEWEL:  To dress, adorn, deck, or supply with jewels, as a dress, a sword hilt, or a watch; to bespangle, as with jewels. The long gray tufts . . . are jeweled thick with dew. M. Arnold. 

JEWELER:  One who makes, or deals in, jewels, precious stones, and similar ornaments. [Written also jeweller.] Jeweler's gold. See under Gold. 

JEWELLERY:  See Jewelry. Burke. 

JEWELWEED:  See Impatiens. 

JEWESS:  A Hebrew woman. 

JEWISE:  Same as Juise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JEWISH:  Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of or resembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish.  -- Jew"ish*ly, adv.  -- Jew"ish*ness, n.  JEWISH CALENDAR Jew"ish cal"en*dar.  A lunisolar calendar in use among Hebraic peoples, reckoning from the year 3761 b. c., the date traditionally given for the Creation. It received its present fixed form from Hillel II. about 360 a. d. The present names of the months, which are Babylonian- Assyrian in origin, replaced older ones, Abib, Bul, etc., at the time of the Babylonian Exile. Nineteen years constitute a lunar cycle, of which the 3d, 6th, 8th, 11th, 14th, 17th, and 19th years are leap years. The year 5663 [1902-3 a. d.] was the first year of the 299th lunar cycle. The common year is said to be defective, regular, or perfect (or abundant) according as it has 353, 354, or 355 days. The leap year has an intercalary month, and a total of 383 (defective), 384 (regular), or 385 (perfect, or abundant) days. The calendar is complicated by various rules providing for the harmonious arrangement of festivals, etc., so that no simple perpetual calendar can be constructed. The following table gives the months in order, with the number of days assigned to each. Only three months vary in length. They are: Heshvan, which has 30 days in perfect years; Kislev, which has 30 days in regular and perfect years; and Adar, which has 30 days in leap years. The ecclesiastical year commences with Nisan and the civil year with Tishri. The date of the first of Tishri, or the Jewish New Year, is also given for the Jewish years 5661-5696 (1900- 1935 a. d.). From these tables it is possible to transform any Jewish date into Christian, or vice versa, for the years 1900-1935 a. d.  Months of the Jewish Year.   1 Tishri . . . . . . 30  2 Heshvan . . . . .  29 (r. & d.)                                 or 30 (p.)  3 Kislev . . . . . . 29 (d.) or                                    30 (r. & p.)  4 Tebet . . . . . .  29  5 Shebat . . . . . . 30  6 Adar . . . . . . . 29 or                                    30 (l.)  -- Veadar . . . . .  29     (occuring only in leap years)  7 Nisan . . . . . . .30  8 Ivar . . . . . . ..29  9 Sivan . . . . . . .30 10 Tammux . . . . . . 29 11 Ab . . . . . . . . 30 12 Elul . . . . . . ..29  Jewish Year                   a. d.  5661 p.     begins     Sept.  24, 1900 5662 d.l.    "      "   14, 1901 5663 p.      "      Oct.    2, 1902 5664 r.      "      Sept.  22, 1903 5665 p.l.    "      "   10, 1904 5666 p.      "      "   30, 1905 5667 r.      "      "   20, 1906 5668 d.l.    "      "    6, 1907 5669 p.      "      "   26, 1908 5670 d.l.    "      "   16, 1909 5671 r.      "      Oct.    4, 1910 5672 p.      "      Sept.  23, 1911 5673 p.l.    "      "   12, 1912 5674 r.      "      Oct.    2, 1913 5675 d.      "      Sept.  21, 1914 5676 p.l.    "      "    9, 1915 5677 r.      "      "   28, 1916 5678 p.      "      "   17, 1917 5679 d.l.   begins     Sept.   7, 1918 5680 r.      "      "   25, 1919 5681 p.l.    "      "   13, 1920 5682 p.      "      Oct.    3, 1921 5683 d.      "      Sept.  23, 1922 5684 r.l.    "      "   11, 1923 5685 p.      "      "   29, 1924 5686 p.      "      "   19, 1925 5687 d.l.    "      "    9, 1926 5688 r.      "      "   27, 1927 5689 p.l.    "      "   15, 1928 5690 d.      "      Oct.    5, 1929 5691 r.      "      Sept.  23, 1930 5692 p.l.    "      "   12, 1931 5693 p.      "      Oct.    1, 1932 5694 r.      "      Sept.  23, 1933 5695 d.l.    "      "   10, 1934 5696 p.      "      "   28, 1935 d. = defective year; d.l. = defective leap year; p. = perfect year; p.l. = perfect leap year; r. = regular year; r.l. = regular leap year. 

JEWRY:  Judea; also, a district inhabited by Jews; a Jews' quarter. Chaucer. Teaching throughout all Jewry. Luke xxiii. 5.  JEW'S-EAR Jew's"-ear`, n. (Bot.)  A species of fungus (Hirneola Auricula-Judæ, or Auricula), bearing some resemblance to the human ear.  JEW'S-HARP Jew's-harp`, n. Etym: [Jew + harp; or possibly a corrupt. of jaw's harp; cf. G. maultrommel, lit., mouthdrum.]1. An instrument of music, which, when placed between the teeth, gives, by means of a bent metal tongue struck by the finger, a sound which is modulated by the breath; -- called also Jew's-trump.  2. (Naut.)  The shackle for joining a chain cable to an anchor.  JEW'S-STONE; JEWSTONE Jew's-stone`, Jew"stone`, n. (Paleon.)  A large clavate spine of a fossil sea urchin. 

JEZEBEL:  A bold, vicious woman; a termagant. Spectator. 

JHARAL:  A wild goat (Capra Jemlaica) which inhabits the loftiest mountains of India. It has long, coarse hair, forming a thick mane on its head and neck. 

JIB:  A triangular sail set upon a stay or halyard extending from the foremast or fore-topmast to the bowsprit or the jib boom. Large vessels often carry several jibe; as, inner jib; outer jib; flying jib; etc.  2. (Mach.)  The projecting arm of a crane, from which the load is suspended. Jib boom (Naut.), a spar or boom which serves as an extension of the bowsprit. It is sometimes extended by another spar called the flying jib boom. [Written also gib boom.] -- Jib crane (Mach.), a crane having a horizontal jib on which a trolley moves, bearing the load.  -- Jib door (Arch.), a door made flush with the wall, without dressings or moldings; a disguised door.  -- Jib header (Naut.), a gaff-topsail, shaped like a jib; a jib- headed topsail.  -- Jib topsail (Naut.), a small jib set above and outside of all the other jibs.  -- The cut of one's jib, one's outward appearance. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. 

JIB:  To move restively backward or sidewise, -- said of a horse; to balk. [Written also jibb.] [Eng.]  JIB; JIBB Jib, v. t. & i.  [imp. & p. p. Jibbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Jibbing.] Also Jibb. [Cf. Jib a sail, Gybe.] (Chiefly Naut.)  To shift, or swing round, as a sail, boom, yard, etc., as in tacking. 

JIBBER:  A horse that jibs. [Eng.] 

JIBE:  To shift, as the boom of a fore-and-aft sail, from one side of a vessel to the other when the wind is aft or on the quarter. See Gybe. 

JIBE:  To change a ship's course so as to cause a shifting of the boom. See Jibe, v. t., and Gybe.  2. To agree; to harmonize. [Colloq.] Bartlett. 

JIFFY:  A moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy. [Colloq.] J. & H. Smith. 

JIG:  A light, brisk musical movement. Hot and hasty, like a Scotch jib. Shak.  3. A light, humorous piece of writing, esp. in rhyme; a farce in verse; a ballad. [Obs.] A jig shall be clapped at, and every rhyme Praised and applauded. Beau. & Fl.  4. A piece of sport; a trick; a prank. [Obs.] Is't not a fine jig, A precious cunning, in the late Protector Beau & Fl.  5. A trolling bait, consisting of a bright spoon and a hook attached.  6. (Mach.) (a) A small machine or handy tool; esp.: (Metal Working)  A contrivance fastened to or inclosing a piece of work, and having hard steel surfaces to guide a tool, as a drill, or to form a shield or templet to work to, as in filing. (b) (Mining) An apparatus or a machine for jigging ore. Drill jig, a jig for guiding a drill. See Jig,  6 (a).  -- Jig drilling, Jig filing (Metal Working), a process of drilling or filing in which the action of the tool is directed or limited by a jig.  -- Jig saw, a sawing machine with a narrow, vertically reciprocating saw, used to cut curved and irregular lines, or ornamental patterns in openwork, a scroll saw; -- called also gig saw. 

JIG:  To sort or separate, as ore in a jigger or sieve. See Jigging, n.  4. (Metal Working)  To cut or form, as a piece of metal, in a jigging machine. 

JIG:  To dance a jig; to skip about. You jig, you amble, and you lisp. Shak. 

JIGGER:  A species of flea (Sarcopsylla, or Pulex, penetrans), which burrows beneath the skin. See Chigoe. 

JIGGING:  The act or using a jig; the act of separating ore with a jigger, or wire-bottomed sieve, which is moved up and down in water. Jigging machine. (a) (Mining) A machine for separating ore by the process of jigging. (b) (Metal Working) A machine with a rotary milling cutter and a templet by which the action of the cutter is guided or limited; -- used for forming the profile of an irregularly shaped piece; a profiling machine. 

JIGGLE:  To wriggle or frisk about; to move awkwardly; to shake up and down. 

JIGJOG:  A jolting motion; a jogging pace. 

JIGJOG:  Having a jolting motion.  JIHAD; JEHAD Ji*had", Je*had", n. [Ar. jihad.] (Moham.)  A religious war against infidels or Mohammedan heretics; also, any bitter war or crusade for a principle or belief.  [Their] courage in war . . . had not, like that of the Mohammedan dervishes of the Sudan, or of Mohammedans anywhere engaged in a jehad, a religious motive and the promise of future bliss behind it. James Bryce. 

JILL:  A young woman; a sweetheart. See Gill. Beau. & Fl.  JILL-FLIRT Jill"-flirt`, n.  A light, giddy, or wanton girl or woman. See Gill-flirt. 

JILT:  A woman who capriciously deceives her lover; a coquette; a flirt. Otway. 

JILT:  To cast off capriciously or unfeeling, as a lover; to deceive in love. Locke. 

JILT:  To play the jilt; to practice deception in love; to discard lovers capriciously. Congreve. 

JIMCRACK:  See Gimcrack.  JIM-CROW Jim"-crow`, n. (Mach.)  1. A machine for bending or straightening rails.  2. A planing machine with a reversing tool, to plane both ways.  JIM CROW Jim Crow.  A negro; -- said to be so called from a popular negro song and dance, the refrain of which is "Wheel about and turn about and jump Jim Crow," produced in 1835 by T. D. Rice, a famous negro minstrel. [Slang, U. S.] 

JIMMY:  A short crowbar used by burglars in breaking open doors. [Written also jemmy.] 

JIMP:  Neat; handsome; elegant. See Gimp.  JIMSON WEED Jim"son weed`  . See Jamestown weed. [Local, U.S.]  JIN; JINN Jin, Jinn, n.  See Jinnee. "Solomon is said to have had power over the jin." Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

JINGAL:  A small portable piece of ordnance, mounted on a swivel. [Written also gingal and jingall.] [India] 

JINGLE:  To cause to give a sharp metallic sound as a little bell, or as coins shaken together; to tinkle. The bells she jingled, and the whistle blew. Pope. 

JINGLER:  One who, or that which, jingles. 

JINGLING:  The act or process of producing a jingle; also, the sound itself; a chink. "The jingling of the guinea." Tennyson. 

JINGLINGLY:  So as to jingle. Lowell. 

JINGOISM:  The policy of the Jingoes, so called. See Jingo, 2. [Cant, Eng.] 

JINNEE:  A genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power of assuming various forms. [Written also jin, djinnee, etc.]  Note: Jinn is also used as sing., with pl. jinns (.  JINNY ROAD Jin"ny road`. Etym: [Cf. Gin an engine, Ginnycarriage.] (Mining)  An inclined road in a coal mine, on which loaded cars descend by gravity, drawing up empty ones. Knight. 

JINRIKISHA:  A small, two-wheeled, hooded vehicle drawn by one more men. [Japan] 

JINX:  A person, object, influence, or supernatural being which is supposed to bring bad luck or to cause things to go wrong. [Slang] 

JIPPO:  A waistcoat or kind of stays for women. 

JO:  A sweetheart; a darling. [Scot.] Burns. 

JOB:  To buy and sell, as a broker; to purchase of importers or manufacturers for the purpose of selling to retailers; as, to job goods.  5. To hire or let by the job or for a period of service; as, to job a carriage. Thackeray. 

JOB:  The hero of the book of that name in the Old Testament; the typical patient man. Job's comforter. (a) A false friend; a tactless or malicious person who, under pretense of sympathy, insinuates rebukes. (b) A boil. [Colloq.] -- Job's news, bad news. Carlyle.  -- Job's tears (Bot.), a kind of grass (Coix Lacryma), with hard, shining, pearly grains. 

JOBATION:  A scolding; a hand, tedious reproof. [Law] Grose. 

JOBBERNOWL:  A blockhead. [Colloq. & Obs.] H. Taylor. 

JOCANTRY:  The act or practice of jesting. [Obs.] 

JOCKEY:  To play or act the jockey; to cheat. 

JOCKEYING:  The act or management of one who jockeys; trickery. Beaconsfield. 

JOCKEYISM:  The practice of jockeys. 

JOCKEYSHIP:  The art, character, or position, of a jockey; the personality of a jockey. Go flatter Sawney for his jockeyship. Chatterton. Where can at last his jockeyship retire Cowper. 

JOCOSE:  Given to jokes and jesting; containing a joke, or abounding in jokes; merry; sportive; humorous. To quit their austerity and be jocose and pleasant with an adversary. Shaftesbury. All . . . jocose or comical airs should be excluded. I. Watts.  Syn.  -- Jocular; facetious; witty; merry; pleasant; waggish; sportive; funny; comical.  -- Jo*cose"ly, adv.  -- Jo*cose"ness, n. Spondanus imagines that Ulysses may possibly speak jocosely, but in truth Ulysses never behaves with levity. Broome. He must beware lest his letter should contain anything like jocoseness; since jesting is incompatible with a holy and serious life. Buckle. 

JOCOSERIOUS:  Mingling mirth and seriousness. M. Green. 

JOCOSITY:  A jocose act or saying; jocoseness. Sir T. Browne. 

JOCULARITY:  Jesting; merriment. 

JOCULARLY:  In jest; for sport or mirth; jocosely. 

JOCULARY:  Jocular; jocose; sportive. Bacon. 

JOCULATOR:  A jester; a joker. [Obs.] Strutt. 

JOCULATORY:  Droll; sportive. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

JOCUND:  Merry; cheerful; gay; airy; lively; sportive. Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops. Shak. Rural sports and jocund strains. Prior. -- Joc"und*ly, adv.  -- Joc"und*ness, n. 

JOCUND:  Merrily; cheerfully. Gray. 

JOCUNDITY:  The state or quality of being jocund; gayety; sportiveness. 

JOE:  See Johannes.  JOE MILLER Joe" Mil"ler. Etym: [From Joseph Miller, a comic actor, whose name was attached, after his death, to a popular jest book published in 1739.]  A jest book; a stale jest; a worn-out joke. [Colloq.] It is an old Joe Miller in whist circles, that there are only two reasons that can justify you in not returning trumps to your partner's lead; i. e., first, sudden illness; secondly, having none. Pole.  JOE-PYE WEED Joe`-Pye" weed`. (Bot.)  A tall composite plant of the genus Eupatorium (E. purpureum), with purplish flowers, and whorled leaves. 

JOG:  To move by jogs or small shocks, like those of a slow trot; to move slowly, leisurely, or monotonously; -- usually with on, sometimes with over. Jog on, jog on, the footpath way. Shak. So hung his destiny, never to rot, While he might still jog on and keep his trot. Milton . The good old ways our sires jogged safely over. R. Browning. 

JOGGER:  One who jogs. Dryden. 

JOGGING:  The act of giving a jog or jogs; traveling at a jog. 

JOGGLE:  To join by means of joggles, so as to prevent sliding apart; sometimes, loosely, to dowel. The struts of a roof are joggled into the truss posts. Gwilt. 

JOGGLE:  To shake or totter; to slip out of place. 

JOGGLE:  A notch or tooth in the joining surface of any piece of building material to prevent slipping; sometimes, but incorrectly, applied to a separate piece fitted into two adjacent stones, or the like. Joggle joint (Arch.), a joint in any kind of building material, where the joining surfaces are made with joggles. 

JOHANNEAN:  Of or pertaining to John, esp. to the Apostle John or his writings. M. Stuart. 

JOHANNES:  A Portuguese gold coin of the value of eight dollars, named from the figure of King John which it bears;- often contracted into joe; as, a joe, or a half joe. 

JOHANNISBERGER:  A fine white wine produced on the estate of Schloss (or Castle) Johannisberg, on the Rhine. 

JOHN:  A proper name of a man. John-apple, a sort of apple ripe about St. John's Day. Same as Apple-john.  -- John Bull, an ideal personification of the typical characteristics of an Englishman, or of the English people.  -- John Bullism, English character. W. Irving.  -- John Doe (Law), the name formerly given to the fictitious plaintiff in an action of ejectment. Mozley & W.  -- John Doree, John Dory. Etym: [John (or F. jaune yellow) + Doree, Dory.] (Zoöl.) An oval, compressed, European food fish (Zeus faber). Its color is yellow and olive, with golden, silvery, and blue reflections. It has a round dark spot on each side. Called also dory, doree, and St. Peter's fish. 

JOHNADREAMS:  A dreamy, idle fellow. Shak. 

JOHNNY:  A sculpin. [Local cant] Johny Crapaud (, a jocose designation of a Frenchman, or of the French people, collectively. 

JOHNNYCAKE:  A kind of bread made of the meal of maize (Indian corn), mixed with water or milk, etc., and baked. [U.S.] J. Barlow. 

JOHNSONESE:  The literary style of Dr. Samuel Johnson, or one formed in imitation of it; an inflated, stilted, or pompous style, affecting classical words. E. Everett.  JOHNSON GRASS John"son grass`. Etym: [Named after W. Johnson of Alabama, who planted it about 1840-1845.] (Bot.)  A tall perennial grass (Sorghum Halepense), valuable in the Southern and Western States for pasture and hay. The rootstocks are large and juicy and are eagerly sought by swine. Called also Cuba grass, Means grass, Evergreen millet, and Arabian millet. 

JOHNSONIAN:  Pertaining to or resembling Dr. Johnson or his style; pompous; inflated. 

JOHNSONIANISM:  A manner of acting or of writing peculiar to, or characteristic of, Dr. Johnson. [Written also Johnsonism.]  JOHN'S-WORT John's"-wort`, n.  See St. John's-wort. 

JOIN:  To be contiguous, close, or in contact; to come together; to unite; to mingle; to form a union; as, the hones of the skull join; two rivers join. Whose house joined hard to the synagogue. Acts xviii. 7. Should we again break thy commandments, and join in affinity with the people of these abominations Ezra ix. 14. Nature and fortune joined to make thee great. Shak. 

JOIN:  The line joining two points; the point common to two intersecting lines. Henrici. 

JOINANT:  Adjoining. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JOINERY:  The art, or trade, of a joiner; the work of a joiner. A piece of joinery . . . whimsically dovetailed. Burke. 

JOINHAND:  Writing in which letters are joined in words; -- distinguished from writing in single letters. Addison. 

JOINT:  A plane of fracture, or divisional plane, of a rock transverse to the stratification.  6. (Arch.)  The space between the adjacent surfaces of two bodies joined and held together, as by means of cement, mortar, etc.; as, a thin joint.  7. The means whereby the meeting surfaces of pieces in a structure are secured together. Coursing joint (Masonry), the mortar joint between two courses of bricks or stones.  -- Fish joint, Miter joint, Universal joint, etc. See under Fish, Miter, etc.  -- Joint bolt, a bolt for fastening two pieces, as of wood, one endwise to the other, having a nut embedded in one of the pieces.  -- Joint chair (Railroad), the chair that supports the ends of abutting rails.  -- Joint coupling, a universal joint for coupling shafting. See under Universal.  -- Joint hinge, a hinge having long leaves; a strap hinge.  -- Joint splice, a reënforce at a joint, to sustain the parts in their true relation.  -- Joint stool. (a) A stool consisting of jointed parts; a folding stool. Shak. (b) A block for supporting the end of a piece at a joint; a joint chair.  -- Out of joint, out of place; dislocated, as when the head of a bone slips from its socket; hence, not working well together; disordered. "The time is out of joint." Shak. 

JOINT:  To fit as if by joints; to coalesce as joints do; as, the stones joint, neatly. 

JOINTED:  Having joints; articulated; full of nodes; knotty; as, a jointed doll; jointed structure. "The jointed herbage." J. Philips.  -- Joint"ed*ly, adv. 

JOINTER:  A genus (Ephedra) of leafless shrubs, with the stems conspicuously jointed; -- called also shrubby horsetail. There are about thirty species, of which two or three are found from Texas to California. 

JOINTING:  The act or process of making a joint; also, the joints thus produced. Jointing machine, a planing machine for wood used in furniture and piano factories, etc.  -- Jointing plane. See Jointer, 2.  -- Jointing rule (Masonry), a long straight rule, used by bricklayers for securing straight joints and faces. 

JOINTLESS:  Without a joint; rigid; stiff. 

JOINTLY:  In a joint manner; together; unitedly; in concert; not separately. Then jointly to the ground their knees they bow. Shak. 

JOINTRESS:  A woman who has a jointure. [Written also jointuress.] Blackstone. 

JOINTURE:  An estate settled on a wife, which she is to enjoy after husband's decease, for her own life at least, in satisfaction of dower. The jointure that your king must make, Which with her dowry shall be counterpoised. Shak. 

JOINTURE:  To settle a jointure upon. 

JOINTURELESS:  Having no jointure. 

JOINTURESS:  See Jointress. Bouvier. 

JOINTWEED:  A slender, nearly leafless, American herb (Polygonum articulatum), with jointed spikes of small flowers. 

JOINTWORM:  The larva of a small, hymenopterous fly (Eurytoma hordei), which is found in gall-like swellings on the stalks of wheat, usually at or just above the first joint. In some parts of America it does great damage to the crop. 

JOIST:  A piece of timber laid horizontally, or nearly so, to which the planks of the floor, or the laths or furring strips of a ceiling, are nailed; -- called, according to its position or use, binding joist, bridging joist, ceiling joist, trimming joist, etc. See Illust. of Double-framed floor, under Double, a. 

JOIST:  To fit or furnish with joists. Johnson. 

JOKE:  To make merry with; to make jokes upon; to rally; to banter; as, to joke a comrade. 

JOKE:  To do something for sport, or as a joke; to be merry in words or actions; to jest. He laughed, shouted, joked, and swore. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To jest; sport; rally; banter. See Jest. 

JOKER:  See Rest bower, under 2d Bower. 

JOKINGLY:  In a joking way; sportively.  JOLE; JOLL Jole, Joll, v. t. & n.  Same as Jowl. Shak. 

JOLIF:  Joyful; merry; pleasant; jolly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JOLLIFICATION:  A merrymaking; noisy festivity. [Colloq.] We have had a jollification or so together. Sir W. Scott. 

JOLLILY:  In a jolly manner. 

JOLLIMENT:  Jollity. [Obs.] Spenser. 

JOLLINESS:  Jollity; noisy mirth. Chaucer. 

JOLLITY:  Noisy mirth; gayety; merriment; festivity; boisterous enjoyment. Chaucer. All now was turned to jollity and game. Milton. He with a proud jollity commanded him to leave that quarrel only for him, who was only worthy to enter into it. Sir P. Sidney.  Syn.  -- Merriment; mirth; gayety; festivity; hilarity. 

JOLLY:  A boat of medium size belonging to a ship. 

JOLLYHEAD:  Jollity. [Obs.] Spenser. 

JOLT:  To shake with short, abrupt risings and fallings, as a carriage moving on rough ground; as, the coach jolts. 

JOLT:  To cause to shake with a sudden up and down motion, as in a carriage going over rough ground, or on a high-trotting horse; as, the horse jolts the rider; fast driving jolts the carriage and the passengers. 

JOLT:  A sudden shock or jerk; a jolting motion, as in a carriage moving over rough ground. The first jolt had like to have shaken me out. Swift. 

JOLTER:  One who, or that which, jolts.  JOLTERHEAD; JOLTHEAD Jolt"er*head`, Jolt"head`, n. Etym: [See Jolt, Jowl.]  A dunce; a blockhead. Sir T. North. 

JOLTINGLY:  In a jolting manner. 

JOLTY:  That jolts; as, a jolty coach. [Colloq.] 

JONAH:  The Hebrew prophet, who was cast overboard as one who endangered the ship; hence, any person whose presence is unpropitious. Jonah crab (Zoöl.), a large crab (Cancer borealis) of the eastern coast of the United States, sometimes found between tides, but usually in deep water. 

JONESIAN:  Of or pertaining to Jones. The Jonesian system, a system of transliterating Oriental words by English letters, invented by Sir William Jones.  JONGLEUR; JONGLER Jon"gleur, Jon"gler, n. Etym: [F. jongleur. See Juggler.]  1. In the Middle Ages, a court attendant or other person who, for hire, recited or sang verses, usually of his own composition. See Troubadour. Vivacity and picturesquenees of the jongleur's verse. J R. Green.  2. A juggler; a conjuror. See Juggler. Milton.  JONQUIL; JONQUILLE Jon"quil, Jon"quille, n. Etym: [F. jonquille, fr. L. juncus a rush, because it has rushlike leaves.] (Bot.)  A bulbous plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Jonquilla), allied to the daffodil. It has long, rushlike leaves, and yellow or white fragrant flowers. The root has emetic properties. It is sometimes called the rush-leaved daffodil. See Illust. of Corona. 

JORAM:  See Jorum.  JORDAN; JORDEN Jor"dan, Jor"den, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. the river Jordan, and shortened fr. Jordan bottle a bottle of water from the Jordan, brought back by pilgrims.]  1. A pot or vessel with a large neck, formerly used by physicians and alchemists. [Obs.] Halliwell.  2. A chamber pot. [Obs.] Chaucer. Shak. 

JORUM:  A large drinking vessel; also, its contents. [Colloq. Eng.] Forby. 

JOSEPH:  An outer garment worn in the 18th century; esp., a woman's riding habit, buttoned down the front. Fairholt.  JOSEPH'S FLOWER Jo"seph's flow"er. (Bot.)  A composite herb (Tragopogon pratensis), of the same genus as the salsify. 

JOSO:  A small gudgeon. 

JOSS:  A Chinese household divinity; a Chinese idol. "Critic in jars and josses." Colman (1761). Joss house, a Chinese temple or house for the Chinese mode of worship.  -- Joss stick, a reed covered with a paste made of the dust of odoriferous woods, or a cylinder made wholly of the paste; -- burned by the Chinese before an idol. 

JOSSA:  A command to a horse, probably meaning "stand still." [Obs.] Chaucer.  JOSS PAPER Joss paper.  Gold and silver paper burned by the Chinese, in the form of coins or ingots, in worship and at funerals. 

JOSTLE:  To run against and shake; to push out of the way; to elbow; to hustle; to disturb by crowding; to crowd against. "Bullies jostled him." Macaulay. Systems of movement, physical, intellectual, and moral, which are perpetually jostling each other. I. Taylor. 

JOSTLE:  To push; to crowd; to hustle. None jostle with him for the wall. Lamb. 

JOSTLE:  A conflict by collisions; a crowding or bumping together; interference. The jostle of South African nationalities and civilization. The Nation. 

JOSTLEMENT:  Crowding; hustling. 

JOT:  An iota; a point; a tittle; the smallest particle. Cf. Bit, n. Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. Matt. v. 18. Neither will they bate One jot of ceremony. Shak. 

JOT:  To set down; to make a brief note of; -- usually followed by down. 

JOUGS:  An iron collar fastened to a wall or post, formerly used in Scotland as a kind of pillory. [Written also juggs.] See Juke. Sir W. Scott. 

JOUISSANCE:  Jollity; merriment. [Obs.] Spenser. 

JOUK:  See Juke. 

JOUL:  See Jowl. 

JOULE:  A unit of work which is equal to 107 units of work in the C. G. S. system of units (ergs), and is practically equivalent to the energy expended in one second by an electric current of one ampere in a resistance of one ohm. One joule is approximately equal to 0.738 foot pounds. Joule's equivalent. See under Equivalent, n. 

JOULEMETER:  An integrating wattmeter for measuring the energy in joules expended in an electric circuit or developed by a machine.  JOULE'S CYCLE Joule's cycle. (Thermodynamics)  The cycle for the air engine proposed by Joule. In it air is taken by a pump from a cold chamber and compressed adiabatically until its pressure is eqal to that of the air in a hot chamber, into which it is then delivered, thereby displacing an equal amount of hot air into the engine cylinder. Here it expands adiabatically to the temperature of the cold chamber into which it is finally exhausted. This cycle, reversed, is used in refrigerating machines.  JOULE'S LAW Joule's law.  1. (Elec.)  The law that the rate at which heat is produced in any part of an electric circuit is measured by the product of the square of the current into the resistance of that part of the circuit. If the current  (i) is constant for an interval of time (t), the energy (H) in heat units equals i2Rt, R being resistance.  2. (Thermodynamics) The law that there is no change of temperature when a gas expands without doing external work and without receiving or rejecting heat. 

JOUNCE:  To jolt; to shake, especially by rough riding or by driving over obstructions. 

JOUNCE:  A jolt; a shake; a hard trot. 

JOURNAL:  Daily; diurnal. [Obs.] Whiles from their journal labors they did rest. Spenser. 

JOURNAL:  That portion of a rotating piece, as a shaft, axle, spindle, etc., which turns in a bearing or box. See Illust. of Axle box. Journal box, or Journal bearing (Mach.) the carrier of a journal; the box in which the journal of a shaft, axle, or pin turns. 

JOURNALISTIC:  Pertaining to journals or to journalists; contained in, or characteristic of, the public journals; as journalistic literature or enterprise. 

JOURNALIZE:  To enter or record in a journal or diary. Johnson. 

JOURNALIZE:  to conduct or contribute to a public journal; to follow the profession of a journalist. 

JOURNEY:  To travel from place to place; to go from home to a distance. Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south. Gen. xii. 9. 

JOURNEY:  To traverse; to travel over or through. [R.] "I journeyed many a land." Sir W. Scott.  JOURNEY-BATED Jour"ney-bat`ed, a.  Worn out with journeying. [Obs.] Shak. 

JOURNEYER:  One who journeys. 

JOURNEYMAN:  Formerly, a man hired to work by the day; now, commonly, one who has mastered a handicraft or trade; -- distinguished from apprentice and from master workman. I have thought some of nature's journeymen had made men, and not made them well. Shak. 

JOURNEYWORK:  Originally, work done by the day; work done by a journeyman at his trade. 

JOUST:  To engage in mock combat on horseback, as two knights in the lists; to tilt. [Written also just.] For the whole army to joust and tourney. Holland. 

JOUST:  A tilting match; a mock combat on horseback between two knights in the lists or inclosed field. [Written also just.] Gorgeous knights at joust and tournament. Milton. 

JOUSTER:  One who jousts or tilts. 

JOVE:  The planet Jupiter. [R.] Pope.  3. (Alchemy)  The metal tin. Bird of Jove, the eagle. 

JOVIALIST:  One who lives a jovial life. Bp. Hall. 

JOVIALITY:  The quality or state of being jovial. Sir T. Herbert. 

JOVIALLY:  In a jovial manner; merrily; gayly. B. Jonson. 

JOVIALNESS:  Noisy mirth; joviality. Hewyt. 

JOVIALTY:  Joviality. [R.] Barrow. 

JOVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Jove, or Jupiter (either the deity or the planet). 

JOVICENTRIC:  Revolving around the planet Jupiter; appearing as viewed from Jupiter. [R.] J. R. Hind. 

JOVINIANIST:  An adherent to the doctrines of Jovinian, a monk of the fourth century, who denied the virginity of Mary, and opposed the asceticism of his time. 

JOWL:  The cheek; the jaw. [Written also jole, choule, chowle, and geoule.] Cheek by jowl, with the cheeks close together; side by side; in close proximity. "I will go with three cheek by jole." Shak. " Sits cheek by jowl." Dryden. 

JOWL:  To throw, dash, or knock. [Obs.] How the knave jowls it to the ground. Shak. 

JOWLER:  A dog with large jowls, as the beagle. 

JOWTER:  A mounted peddler of fish; -- called also jouster. [Obs.] Carew. 

JOY:  To rejoice; to be glad; to delight; to exult. I will joy in the God of my salvation. Hab. iii. 18. In whose sight all things joy. Milton. 

JOYANCE:  Enjoyment; gayety; festivity; joyfulness. Spenser. Some days of joyance are decreed to all. Byron. From what hid fountains doth thy joyance flow Trench. 

JOYANCY:  Joyance. [R.] Carlyle. 

JOYFUL:  Full of joy; having or causing joy; very glad; as, a joyful heart. "Joyful tidings." Shak. My soul shall be joyful in my God. Is. lxi. 10. Sad for their loss, but joyful of our life. Pope. -- Joy"ful*ly, adv.  -- Joy"ful*ness, n. 

JOYLESS:  Not having joy; not causing joy; unenjoyable.  -- Joy"less*ly, adv.  -- Joy"less*ness, n. With downcast eyes the joyless victor sat. Dryden. Youth and health and war are joyless to him. Addison. [He] pining for the lass, Is joyless of the grove, and spurns the growing grass. Dryden. 

JOYOUS:  Glad; gay; merry; joyful; also, affording or inspiring joy; with of before the word or words expressing the cause of joy. Is this your joyous city Is. xxiii. 7. They all as glad as birds of joyous prime. Spenser. And joyous of our conquest early won. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Merry; lively; blithe; gleeful; gay; glad; mirthful; sportive; festive; joyful; happy; blissful; charming; delightful.  -- Joy"ous*ly, adv.  -- Joy"ous*ness, n. 

JOYSOME:  Causing joyfulness. [R.] This all joysome grove. T. Browne. 

JUB:  A vessel for holding ale or wine; a jug. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JUBA:  The mane of an animal.  2. (Bot.)  A loose panicle, the axis of which falls to pieces, as in certain grasses. 

JUBATE:  Fringed with long, pendent hair.  JUBBAH; JUBBEH; JOOBBEH Jub"bah, n. Also Jub"beh, Joob"beh. [Hind. jubba, fr. Ar. jubbah.]  A long outer garment worn by both sexes of Mohammedans of the better class. 

JUBILANT:  Uttering songs of triumph; shouting with joy; triumphant; exulting. "The jubilant age." Coleridge. While the bright pomp ascended jubilant. Milton. 

JUBILANTLY:  In a jubilant manner. 

JUBILAR:  Pertaining to, or having the character of, a jubilee. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

JUBILATE:  To exult; to rejoice. [R.] De Quincey. 

JUBILATION:  A triumphant shouting; rejoicing; exultation. "Jubilations and hallelujahs." South. 

JUBILEE:  Every fiftieth year, being the year following the completion of each seventh sabbath of years, at which time all the slaves of Hebrew blood were liberated, and all lands which had been alienated during the whole period reverted to their former owners. [In this sense spelled also, in some English Bibles, jubile.] Lev. xxv. 8-17.  2. The joyful commemoration held on the fiftieth anniversary of any event; as, the jubilee of Queen Victoria's reign; the jubilee of the American Board of Missions.  3. (R. C. Ch.)  A church solemnity or ceremony celebrated at Rome, at stated intervals, originally of one hundred years, but latterly of twenty- five; a plenary and extraordinary indulgence grated by the sovereign pontiff to the universal church. One invariable condition of granting this indulgence is the confession of sins and receiving of the eucharist.  4. A season of general joy. The town was all a jubilee of feasts. Dryden.  5. A state of joy or exultation. [R.] "In the jubilee of his spirits." Sir W. Scott. 

JUCUNDITY:  Pleasantness; agreeableness. See Jocundity. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

JUDAHITE:  One of the tribe of Judah; a member of the kingdom of Judah; a Jew. Kitto.  JUDAIC; JUDAICAL Ju*da"ic, Ju*da"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Judaïcus, fr. Judaea, the country Judea: cf. F. Judaïque. See Jew.]  Of or pertaining to the Jews. "The natural or Judaical [religion]." South. 

JUDAICALLY:  After the Jewish manner. Milton. 

JUDAIST:  One who believes and practices Judaism. 

JUDAISTIC:  Of or pertaining to Judaism. 

JUDAIZATION:  The act of Judaizing; a conforming to the Jewish religion or ritual. [R.] 

JUDAIZE:  To conform to the doctrines, observances, or methods of the Jews; to inculcate or impose Judaism. They . . . prevailed on the Galatians to Judaize so far as to observe the rites of Moses in various instances. They were Judaizing doctors, who taught the observation of the Mosaic law. Bp. Bull. 

JUDAIZE:  To impose Jewish observances or rites upon; to convert to Judaism. The heretical Theodotion, the Judaized Symmachus. Milton. 

JUDAIZER:  One who conforms to or inculcates Judaism; specifically, pl. (Ch. Hist.), those Jews who accepted Christianity but still adhered to the law of Moses and worshiped in the temple at Jerusalem. 

JUDAIZERS:  See Raskolnik. 

JUDAS:  The disciple who betrayed Christ. Hence: A treacherous person; one who betrays under the semblance of friendship.  -- a.  Treacherous; betraying. Judas hole, a peephole or secret opening for spying.  -- Judas kiss, a deceitful and treacherous kiss.  -- Judas tree (Bot.), a leguminous tree of the genus Cercis, with pretty, rose-colored flowers in clusters along the branches. Judas is said to have hanged himself on a tree of this genus (C. Siliquastrum). C. Canadensis and C. occidentalis are the American species, and are called also redbud.  JUDAS-COLORED Ju"das-col`ored, a.  Red; -- from a tradition that Judas Iscariot had red hair and beard. There's treachery in that Judas-colored beard. Dryden. 

JUDDOCK:  See Jacksnipe. 

JUDEAN:  Of or pertaining to Judea.  -- n.  A native of Judea; a Jew. 

JUDGE:  A public officer who is invested with authority to hear and determine litigated causes, and to administer justice between parties in courts held for that purpose. The parts of a judge in hearing are four: to direct the evidence; to moderate length, repetition, or impertinency of speech; to recapitulate, select, and collate the material points of that which hath been said; and to give the rule or sentence. Bacon.  2. One who has skill, knowledge, or experience, sufficient to decide on the merits of a question, or on the quality or value of anything; one who discerns properties or relations with skill and readiness; a connoisseur; an expert; a critic. A man who is no judge of law may be a good judge of poetry, or eloquence, or of the merits of a painting. Dryden.  3. A person appointed to decide in aas, a judge in a horse race.  4. (Jewish Hist.)  One of supreme magistrates, with both civil and military powers, who governed Israel for more than four hundred years.  5. pl.  The title of the seventh book of the Old Testament; the Book of Judges. Judge Advocate (Mil. & Nav.), a person appointed to act as prosecutor at a court-martial; he acts as the representative of the government, as the responsible adviser of the court, and also, to a certain extent, as counsel for the accused, when he has no other counsel.  -- Judge-Advocate General, in the United States, the title of two officers, one attached to the War Department and having the rank of brigadier general, the other attached to the Navy Department and having the rank of colonel of marines or captain in the navy. The first is chief of the Bureau of Military Justice of the army, the other performs a similar duty for the navy. In England, the designation of a member of the ministry who is the legal adviser of the secretary of state for war, and supreme judge of the proceedings of courts-martial.  Syn.  -- Judge, Umpire, Arbitrator, Referee. A judge, in the legal sense, is a magistrate appointed to determine questions of law. An umpire is a person selected to decide between two or more who contend for a prize. An arbitrator is one chosen to allot to two contestants their portion of a claim, usually on grounds of equity and common sense. A referee is one to whom a case is referred for final adjustment. Arbitrations and references are sometimes voluntary, sometimes appointed by a court. 

JUDGE:  Created by judges or judicial decision; -- applied esp. to law applied or established by the judicial interpretation of statutes so as extend or restrict their scope, as to meet new cases, to provide new or better remedies, etc., and often used opprobriously of acts of judicial interpretation considered as doing this.  The law of the 13th century was judge-made law in a fuller and more literal sense than the law of any succeeding century has been. Sir Frederick Pollock. 

JUDGER:  One who judges. Sir K. Digby. 

JUDGESHIP:  The office of a judge. 

JUDGMENT:  The final award; the last sentence.  Note: Judgment, abridgment, acknowledgment, and lodgment are in England sometimes written, judgement, abridgement, acknowledgement, and lodgement.  Note: Judgment is used adjectively in many self-explaining combinations; as, judgment hour; judgment throne. Judgment day (Theol.), the last day, or period when final judgment will be pronounced on the subjects of God's moral government.  -- Judgment debt (Law), a debt secured to the creditor by a judge's order.  -- Judgment hall, a hall where courts are held.  -- Judgment seat, the seat or bench on which judges sit in court; hence, a court; a tribunal. "We shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ." Rom. xiv. 10.  -- Judgment summons (Law), a proceeding by a judgment creditor against a judgment debtor upon an unsatisfied judgment. Arrest of judgment. (Law) See under Arrest, n.  -- Judgment of God, a term formerly applied to extraordinary trials of secret crimes, as by arms and single combat, by ordeal, etc.; it being imagined that God would work miracles to vindicate innocence. See under Ordeal.  Syn.  -- Discernment; decision; determination; award; estimate; criticism; taste; discrimination; penetration; sagacity; intelligence; understanding. See Taste. 

JUDICABLE:  Capable of being judged; capable of being tried or decided upon. Jer. Taylor. 

JUDICATIVE:  Having power to judge; judicial; as, the judicative faculty. Hammond. 

JUDICATORY:  Pertaining to the administration of justice; dispensing justice; judicial; as, judicatory tribunals. T. Wharton. Power to reject in an authoritative or judicatory way. Bp. Hall. 

JUDICIALLY:  In a judicial capacity or judicial manner. "The Lords . . . sitting judicially." Macaulay. 

JUDICIARY:  Of or pertaining to courts of judicature, or legal tribunals; judicial; as, a judiciary proceeding. Bp. Burnet. 

JUDICIARY:  That branch of government in which judicial power is vested; the system of courts of justice in a country; the judges, taken collectively; as, an independent judiciary; the senate committee on the judiciary. 

JUDICIOUS:  Of or relating to a court; judicial. [Obs.] His last offenses to us Shall have judicious hearing. Shak.  2. Directed or governed by sound judgment; having sound judgment; wise; prudent; sagacious; discreet. He is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows The fits o' the season. Shak.  Syn.  -- Prudent; discreet; rational; wise; skillful; discerning; sagacious; well-advised. 

JUDICIOUSLY:  In a judicious manner; with good judgment; wisely. 

JUDICIOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being judicious; sagacity; s 

JUGAL:  Pertaining to, or in the region of, the malar, or cheek bone. 

JUGATA:  The figures of two heads on a medal or coin, either side by side or joined. 

JUGATED:  Coupled together. 

JUGE:  A judge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JUGEMENT:  Judgment. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JUGER:  A Roman measure of land, measuring 28,800 square feet, or 240 feet in length by 120 in breadth. 

JUGGER:  An East Indian falcon. See Lugger. 

JUGGERNAUT:  One of the names under which Vishnu, in his incarnation as Krishna, is worshiped by the Hindoos. [Written also Juggernnath, Jaganath, Jaganatha, etc.]  Note: The principal seat of the worship of Juggernaut is at Pûri in Orissa. At certain times the idol is drawn from the temple by the multitude, on a high car with sixteen wheels. Formerly, fanatics sometimes threw themselves under the wheels to be crushed as a sacrifice to the god. 

JUGGLE:  To deceive by trick or artifice. Is't possible the spells of France should juggle Men into such strange mysteries Shak. 

JUGGLING:  Cheating; tricky.  -- Jug"gling*ly, adv. 

JUGGLING:  Jugglery; underhand practice. 

JUGGS:  See Jougs. [Scot.] 

JUGLANDIN:  An extractive matter contained in the juice of the green shucks of the walnut (Juglans regia). It is used medicinally as an alterative, and also as a black hair dye. 

JUGLANDINE:  An alkaloid found in the leaves of the walnut (Juglans regia). 

JUGLANS:  A genus of valuable trees, including the true walnut of Europe, and the America black walnut, and butternut. 

JUGLONE:  A yellow crystalline substance resembling quinone, extracted from green shucks of the walnut (Juglans regia); -- called also nucin. 

JUGULAR:  Having the ventral fins beneath the throat; -- said of certain fishes. 

JUGULAR:  One of the large veins which return the blood from the head to the heart through two chief trunks, an external and an internal, on each side of the neck; -- called also the jugular vein.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any fish which has the ventral fins situated forward of the pectoral fins, or beneath the throat; one of a division of fishes (Jugulares). 

JUGULATE:  To cut the throat of. [R.] Jacob Bigelow. 

JUGULUM:  The lower throat, or that part of the neck just above the breast. 

JUICE:  The characteristic fluid of any vegetable or animal substance; the sap or part which can be expressed from fruit, etc.; the fluid part which separates from meat in cooking. An animal whose juices are unsound. Arbuthnot. The juice of July flowers. B. Jonson. The juice of Egypt's grape. Shak. Letters which Edward Digby wrote in lemon juice. Macaulay. Cold water draws the juice of meat. Mrs. Whitney. 

JUICE:  To moisten; to wet. [Obs.] Fuller. 

JUICELESS:  Lacking juice; dry. Dr. H. More. 

JUICINESS:  The state or quality of being juicy; succulence plants. 

JUICY:  A bounding with juice; succulent. Bacon. 

JUISE:  Judgment; justice; sentence. [Obs.] Up [on] pain of hanging and high juise. Chaucer. 

JUJUBE:  The sweet and edible drupes (fruits) of several Mediterranean and African species small trees, of the genus Zizyphus, especially the Z. jujuba, Z. vulgaris, Z. mucronata, and Z. Lotus. The last named is thought to have furnished the lotus of the ancient Libyan Lotophagi, or lotus eaters. Jujube paste, the dried or inspissated jelly of the jujube; also, a confection made of gum arabic sweetened.  JUJUTSU; JUJITSU; JIUJUTSU; JIUJITSU Ju"jut`su, n. Also Ju"jit`su, Jiu"jut`su, Jiu"jit`su. [Jap. jujutsu; ju soft (prob. because no weapons are used) + jutsu art.]  The Japanese art of self-defense without weapons, now widely used as a system of physical training. It depends for its efficiency largely upon the principle of making use of an opponent's strength and weight to disable or injure him, and by applying pressure so that his opposing movement will throw him out of balance, dislocate or break a joint, etc.  It opposes knowledge and skill to brute strength, and demands an extensive practical knowledge of human anatomy. 

JUKE:  To bend the neck; to bow or duck the head. [Written also jook and jouk.] The money merchant was so proud of his trust that he went juking and tossing of his head. L' Estrange. 

JUKE:  The neck of a bird. [Prov. Eng.] 

JUKE:  To perch on anything, as birds do. [Obs.]  JUKES, THE Jukes, The  A pseudonym used to designate the descendants of two sisters, the "Jukes" sisters, whose husbands were sons of a backwoodsman of Dutch descent. They lived in the State of New York, and their history was investigated by R. L. Dugdale as an example of the inheritance of criminal and immoral tendencies, disease, and pauperism. Sixty per cent of those traced showed, degeneracy, and they are estimated to have cost society $1,308,000 in 75 years. 

JULACEOUS:  Like an ament, or bearing aments; amentaceous. 

JULEP:  a sweet, demulcent, acidulous, or mucilaginous mixture, used as a vehicle. Milton. Honey in woods, juleps in brooks. H. Vaughan.  2. A beverage composed of brandy, whisky, or some other spirituous liquor, with sugar, pounded ice, and sprigs of mint; -- called also mint julep. [U.S.] 

JULIAN:  Relating to, or derived from, Julius Cæsar. Julian calendar, the calendar as adjusted by Julius Cæsar, in which the year was made to consist of 365 days, each fourth year having 366 days.  -- Julian epoch, the epoch of the commencement of the Julian calendar, or 46 b. c.  -- Julian period, a chronological period of 7,980 years, combining the solar, lunar, and indiction cycles (28 x 19 x 15 = 7,980), being reckoned from the year 4713 B. C., when the first years of these several cycles would coincide, so that if any year of the period be divided by 28, 19, or 15, the remainder will be the year of the corresponding cycle. The Julian period was proposed by Scaliger, to remove or avoid ambiguities in chronological dates, and was so named because composed of Julian years.  -- Julian year, the year of 365 days, 6 hours, adopted in the Julian calendar, and in use until superseded by the Gregorian year, as established in the reformed or Gregorian calendar. 

JULIENNE:  A kind of soup containing thin slices or shreds of carrots, onions, etc. 

JULIFORM:  Having the shape or appearance of a julus or catkin. 

JULUS:  A catkin or ament. See Ament. 

JULY:  The seventh month of the year, containing thirty-one days.  Note: This month was called Quintilis, or the fifth month, according to the old Roman calendar, in which March was the first month of the year.  JULY-FLOWER Ju*ly"-flow`er, n.  See Gillyflower. 

JUMART:  The fabled offspring of a bull and a mare. Locke. 

JUMBLE:  To mix in a confused mass; to put or throw together without order; -- often followed by together or up. Why dost thou blend and jumble such inconsistencies together Burton. Every clime and age Jumbled together. Tennyson. 

JUMBLE:  To meet or unite in a confused way; to mix confusedly. Swift. 

JUMBLEMENT:  Confused mixture. [Low] 

JUMBLER:  One who confuses things. 

JUMBLINGLY:  In a confused manner. 

JUMELLE:  Twin; paired; -- said of various objects made or formed in pairs, as a binocular opera glass, a pair of gimmal rings, etc. 

JUMELLE:  A jumelle opera glass, or the like. 

JUMENT:  A beast; especially, a beast of burden. [Obs.] Fitter for juments than men to feed on. Burton. 

JUMP:  A bodice worn instead of stays by women in the 18th century. 

JUMP:  To bore with a jumper. To jump a claim, to enter upon and take possession of land to which another has acquired a claim by prior entry and occupation. [Western U. S. & Australia] See Claim, n., 3.  -- To jump one's bail, to abscond while at liberty under bail bonds. [Slang, U. S.] 

JUMP:  A dislocation in a stratum; a fault.  5. (Arch.)  An abrupt interruption of level in a piece of brickwork or masonry. From the jump, from the start or beginning. [Colloq.] -- Jump joint. (a) A butt joint. (b) A flush joint, as of plank in carvel-built vessels.  -- Jump seat. (a) A movable carriage seat. (b) A carriage constructed with a seat which may be shifted so as to make room for second or extra seat. Also used adjectively; as, a jump-seat wagon. 

JUMP:  Nice; exact; matched; fitting; precise. [Obs.] "Jump names." B. Jonson. 

JUMP:  Exactly; pat.[Obs.] Shak. 

JUMPER:  The larva of the cheese fly. See Cheese fly, under Cheese.  5. (Eccl.)  A name applied in the 18th century to certain Calvinistic Methodists in Wales whose worship was characterized by violent convulsions.  6. (Horology)  spring to impel the star wheel, also a pawl to lock fast a wheel, in a repeating timepiece. Baby jumper. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Bounty jumper. See under Bounty. 

JUMPER:  A loose upper garment; as: (a) A sort of blouse worn by workmen over their ordinary dress to protect it. (b) A fur garment worn in Arctic journeys. 

JUMPING:  of Jump, to leap. Jumping bean, a seed of a Mexican Euphorbia, containing the larva of a moth (Carpocapsa saltitans). The larva by its sudden movements causes the seed to roll to roll and jump about.  -- Jumping deer (Zoöl.), a South African rodent (Pedetes Caffer), allied to the jerboa.  -- Jumping jack, a toy figure of a man, jointed and made to jump or dance by means of strings.  -- Jumping louse (Zoöl.), any of the numerous species of plant lice belonging to the family Psyllidæ, several of which are injurious to fruit trees.  -- Jumping mouse (Zoöl.), North American mouse (Zapus Hudsonius), having a long tail and large hind legs. It is noted for its jumping powers. Called also kangaroo mouse.  -- Jumping mullet (Zoöl.), gray mullet.  -- Jumping shrew (Zoöl.), any African insectivore of the genus Macroscelides. They are allied to the shrews, but have large hind legs adapted for jumping.  -- Jumping spider (Zoöl.), spider of the genus Salticus and other related genera; one of the Saltigradæ; -- so called because it leaps upon its prey.  JUMPING DISEASE Jump"ing dis*ease".  A convulsive tic similar to or identical with miryachit, observed among the woodsmen of Maine.  JUMP SPARK Jump spark.  A spark produced by the jumping of electricity across a permanent gap. 

JUMPWELD:  See Buttweld, v. t. 

JUMPY:  Jumping, or inducing to jump; characterized by jumps; hence, extremely nervous. 

JUNCACEOUS:  Of. pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Juncaceæ), of which the common rush (Juncus) is the type. 

JUNCATE:  See Junket.[Obs.] Spenser. 

JUNCITE:  A fossil rush. 

JUNCO:  Any bird of the genus Junco, which includes several species of North American finches; -- called also snowbird, or blue snowbird. 

JUNCOUS:  Full of rushes: resembling rushes; juncaceous. [R.] Johnson. 

JUNCTION:  A box through which the main conductors of a system of electric distribution pass, and where connection is made with branch circuits. 

JUNE:  The sixth month of the year, containing thirty days. And what is so rare as a day in June Then, if ever, come perfect days. Lowell. June beetle, June bug (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large brown beetles of the genus Lachnosterna and related genera; -- so called because they begin to fly, in the northern United States, about the first of June. The larvæ of the June beetles live under ground, and feed upon the roots of grasses and other plants. Called also May bug or May beetle.  -- June grass (Bot.), a New England name for Kentucky blue grass. See Blue glass, and Illustration in Appendix. 

JUNEATING:  A kind of early apple. [Written also jenneting.] 

JUNGERMANNIA:  A genus of hepatic mosses, now much circumscribed, but formerly comprising most plants of the order, which is sometimes therefore called Jungermanniaceæ. 

JUNGLE:  A dense growth of brushwood, grasses, reeds, vines, etc.; an almost impenetrable thicket of trees, canes, and reedy vegetation, as in India, Africa, Australia, and Brazil. The jungles of India are of bamboos, canes, and other palms, very difficult to penetrate. Balfour (Cyc. of India). Jungle bear (Zoöl.), the aswail or sloth bear.  -- Jungle cat (Zoöl.), the chaus.  -- Jungle cock (Zoöl.), the male of a jungle fowl.  -- Jungle fowl. (Zoöl.) (a) Any wild species of the genus Gallus, of which several species inhabit India and the adjacent islands; as, the fork-tailed jungle fowl (G. varius) of Java, G. Stanleyi of Ceylon, and G. Bankiva of India.  Note: The latter, which resembles the domestic gamecock, is supposed to be one of the original species from which the domestic fowl was derived. (b) An Australian grallatorial bird (Megapodius tumulus) which is allied to the brush turkey, and, like the latter, lays its eggs in mounds of vegetable matter, where they are hatched by the heat produced by decomposition. 

JUNGLY:  Consisting of jungles; abounding with jungles; of the nature of a jungle. 

JUNIORITY:  The state or quality of being junior. 

JUNIPER:  Any evergreen shrub or tree, of the genus Juniperus and order Coniferæ.  Note: The common juniper (J. communis) is a shrub of a low, spreading form, having awl-shaped, rigid leaves in whorls of threes, and bearing small purplish blue berries (or galbuli), of a warm, pungent taste, used as diuretic and in flavoring gin. A resin exudes from the bark, which has erroneously been considered identical with sandarach, and is used as pounce. The oil of juniper is acrid, and used for various purposes, as in medicine, for making varnish, etc. The wood of several species is of a reddish color, hard and durable, and is used in cabinetwork under the names of red cedar, Bermuda cedar, etc. Juniper worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a geometrid moth (Drepanodes varus). It feeds upon the leaves of the juniper, and mimics the small twigs both in form and color, in a remarkable manner. 

JUNIPERIN:  A yellow amorphous substance extracted from juniper berries. 

JUNIPERITE:  One of the fossil Coniferæ, evidently allied to the juniper. 

JUNK:  A fragment of any solid substance; a thick piece. See Chunk. [Colloq.] Lowell. 

JUNK:  Hard salted beef supplied to ships. Junk bottle , a stout bottle made of thick dark-colored glass.  -- Junk dealer, a dealer in old cordage, old metal, glass, etc.  -- Junk hook (Whaling), a hook for hauling heavy pieces of blubber on deck.  -- Junk ring. (a) A packing of soft material round the piston of a steam engine. (b) A metallic ring for retaining a piston packing in place; (c) A follower.  -- Junk shop, a shop where old cordage, and ship's tackle, old iron, old bottles, old paper, etc., are kept for sale.  -- Junk vat (Leather Manuf.), a large vat into which spent tan liquor or ooze is pumped.  -- Junk wad (Mil.), a wad used in proving cannon; also used in firing hot shot. 

JUNK:  A large vessel, without keel or prominent stem, and with huge masts in one piece, used by the Chinese, Japanese, Siamese, Malays, etc., in navigating their waters. 

JUNKER:  A young German noble or squire; esp., a member of the aristocratic party in Prussia. 

JUNKERISM:  The principles of the aristocratic party in Prussia. 

JUNKET:  To feast; to banquet; to make an entertainment; -- sometimes applied opprobriously to feasting by public officers at the public cost. Job's children junketed and feasted together often. South. 

JUNKET:  To give entertainment to; to feast. The good woman took my lodgings over my head, and was in such a hurry to junket her neighbors. Walpole. 

JUNKETING:  A feast or entertainment; a revel. All those snug junketings and public gormandizings for which the ancient magistrates were equally famous with their modern successors. W. Irving. The apostle would have no reveling or junketing upon the altar. South. 

JUNKETRIES:  Sweetmeats. [Obs.] 

JUNO:  The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven, and the goddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the Greek Hera. Sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes. Shak.  2. (Astron.)  One of the early discovered asteroids. Bird of June, the peacock. 

JUNOLD:  See Gimmal. 

JUNTA:  A council; a convention; a tribunal; an assembly; esp., the grand council of state in Spain. 

JUNTO:  A secret council to deliberate on affairs of government or politics; a number of men combined for party intrigue; a faction; a cabal; as, a junto of ministers; a junto of politicians. The puzzling sons of party next appeared, In dark cabals and mighty juntos met. Thomson. 

JUPARTIE:  Jeopardy. [Obs.] Chaucer.  JUPATI PALM Ju`pa*ti" palm`. (Bot.)  A great Brazilian palm tree (Raphia tædigera), used by the natives for many purposes. 

JUPE:  Same as Jupon. 

JUPITER:  The supreme deity, king of gods and men, and reputed to be the son of Saturn and Rhea; Jove. He corresponds to the Greek Zeus.  2. (Astron.)  One of the planets, being the brightest except Venus, and the largest of them all, its mean diameter being about 85,000 miles. It revolves about the sun in 4,332.6 days, at a mean distance of 5.2028 from the sun, the earth's mean distance being taken as unity. Jupiter's beard. (Bot.) (a) A South European herb, with cymes of small red blossoms (Centranthus ruber). (b) The houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum); -- so called from its massive inflorescence, like the sculptured beard of Jove. Prior. (c) the cloverlike Anthyllis Barba-Jovis.  -- Jupiter's staff (Bot.), the common mullein; -- so called from its long, rigid spike of yellow blossoms.  JUPON; JUPPON Ju*pon", Jup*pon", n. Etym: [F. jupon, fr. jupe skirt, Sp. aljuba a Moorish garment, Ar. jubba.] [Written variously jupe, jump, juppo, etc.]  1. A sleeveless jacket worn over the armor in the 14th century. It fitted closely, and descended below the hips. Dryden.  2. A petticoat. Halliwell. 

JURA:  1. A range of mountains between France and Switzerland.  2. (Geol.)  The Jurassic period. See Jurassic. 

JURAL:  Of or pertaining to jurisprudence. 

JURAMENTUM:  An oath. 

JURASSIC:  Of the age of the middle Mesozoic, including, as divided in England and Europe, the Lias, Oölite, and Wealden; -- named from certain rocks of the Jura mountains.  -- n.  The Jurassic period or formation; -- called also the Jura. 

JURAT:  The memorandum or certificate at the end of an asffidavit, or a bill or answer in chancery, showing when, before whom, and (in English practice), where, it was sworn or affirmed. Wharton. Bouvier. 

JURATORY:  Relating to or comprising an oath; as, juratory caution. Ayliffe.  JURA-TRIAS Ju`ra-tri"as, n. (Geol.)  A term applied to many American Mesozoic strata, in which the characteristics of the Jurassic and Triassic periods appear to be blended.  -- Ju`ra-tri*as"sic, a. 

JURDICCION:  Jurisdiction. [Obs.] 

JURDON:  Jordan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

JUREL:  A yellow carangoid fish of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts (Caranx chrysos), most abundant southward, where it is valued as a food fish; -- called also hardtail, horse crevallé, jack, buffalo jack, skipjack, yellow mackerel, and sometimes, improperly, horse mackerel. Other species of Caranx (as C. fallax) are also sometimes called jurel.  JURIDIC; JURIDICAL Ju*rid"ic, Ju*rid"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. juridicus relating to the administration of justice; jus, juris, right, law + dicare to pronounce: cf. F. juridique. See Just, a., and Diction.]  Pertaining to a judge or to jurisprudence; acting in the distribution of justice; used in courts of law; according to law; legal; as, juridical law. "This juridical sword." Milton. The body corporate of the kingdom, in juridical construction, never dies. Burke. Juridical days, days on which courts are open. 

JURIDICALLY:  In a juridical manner. 

JURISCONSULT:  A man learned in the civil law; an expert in juridical science; a professor of jurisprudence; a jurist. 

JURISDICTION:  The legal power, right, or authority of a particular court to hear and determine causes, to try criminals, or to execute justice; judicial authority over a cause or class of causes; as, certain suits or actions, or the cognizance of certain crimes, are within the jurisdiction of a particular court, that is, within the limits of its authority or commission.  2. The authority of a sovereign power to govern or legislate; the right of making or enforcing laws; the power or right of exercising authority. To live exempt From Heaven's high jurisdiction. Milton. You wrought to be a legate; by which power You maim'd the jurisdiction of all bishops. Shak.  3. Sphere of authority; the limits within which any particular power may be exercised, or within which a government or a court has authority.  Note: Jurisdiction, in its most general sense, is the power to make, declare, or apply the law. When confined to the judiciary department, it is what we denominate the judicial power, the right of administering justice through the laws, by the means which the laws have provided for that purpose. Jurisdiction is limited to place or territory, to persons, or to particular subjects. Duponceau. 

JURISDICTIONAL:  Of or pertaining to jurisdiction; as jurisdictional rights. Barrow. 

JURISDICTIVE:  Having jurisdiction. Milton. 

JURISPRUDENCE:  The science of juridical law; the knowledge of the laws, customs, and rights of men in a state or community, necessary for the due administration of justice. The talents of Abelard were not confined to theology, jurisprudence, philosophy. J. Warton. Medical jurisprudence, that branch of juridical law which concerns questions of medicine. 

JURISPRUDENT:  Understanding law; skilled in jurisprudence. G. West. 

JURISPRUDENT:  One skilled in law or jurisprudence. [R.] De Quincey. 

JURISPRUDENTIAL:  Of or pertaining to jurisprudence. Stewart. 

JURIST:  One who professes the science of law; one versed in the law, especially in the civil law; a writer on civil and international law. It has ever been the method of public jurists to Burke.  JURISTIC; JURISTICAL Ju*ris"tic, Ju*ris"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to a jurist, to the legal profession, or to jurisprudence. [R.] "Juristic ancestry." Lowell. 

JUROR:  A member of a jury; a juryman. I shall both find your lordship judge and juror. Shak.  2. A member of any jury for awarding prizes, etc. 

JURY:  For temporary use; -- applied to a temporary contrivance. Jury mast, a temporary mast, in place of one that has been carried away, or broken.  -- Jury rudder, a rudder constructed for temporary use. 

JURY:  A body of men, usually twelve, selected according to law, impaneled and sworn to inquire into and try any matter of fact, and to render their true verdict according to the evidence legally adduced. See Grand jury under Grand, and Inquest. The jury, passing on the prisoner's life. Shak.  2. A committee for determining relative merit or awarding prizes at an exhibition or competition; as, the art jury gave him the first prize. Jury of inquest, a coroner's jury. See Inquest. 

JURYMAN:  One who is impaneled on a jury, or who serves as a juror.  JURY MAST Ju"ry mast.  (a) A temporary mast, in place of one that has been carried away, or broken.  (b) (Med.) An apparatus to support the trunk and head in spinal disease.  JURY-RIGGED Ju"ry-rigged`, a. (Naut.)  Rigged for temporary service. See Jury, a. 

JUSSI:  A delicate fiber, produced in the Philippine Islands from an unidentified plant, of which dresses, etc., are made. 

JUST:  To joust. Fairfax. 

JUST:  A joust. Dryden. 

JUSTICE:  To administer justice to. [Obs.] Bacon. 

JUSTICEABLE:  Liable to trial in a court of justice. [Obs.] Hayward. 

JUSTICEHOOD:  Justiceship. B. Jonson. 

JUSTICEMENT:  Administration of justice; procedure in courts of justice. [Obs.] Johnson. 

JUSTICER:  One who administers justice; a judge. [Obs.] "Some upright justicer." Shak. 

JUSTICESHIP:  The office or dignity of a justice. Holland. 

JUSTICIABLE:  Proper to be examined in a court of justice. Bailey. 

JUSTICIAR:  Same as Justiciary. 

JUSTICIARY:  An old name for the judges of the higher English courts.  Note: The chief justiciary, or justiciar, in early English history, was not only the chief justice of the kingdom, but also ex officio regent in the king's absence. Court of justiciary (Scots Law), the supreme criminal court, having jurisdiction over the whole of Scotland.  JUSTICO; JUSTICOAT Jus"ti*co, Jus"ti*coat`, n. Etym: [F. justaucorps, lit., close to the body.]  Formerly, a close coat or waistcoat with sleeves. 

JUSTIFIABLE:  Capable of being justified, or shown to be just. Just are the ways of God, An justifiable to men. Milton.  Syn.  -- Defensible; vindicable; warrantable; excusable; exculpable; authorizable.  -- Jus"ti*fi`a*ble*ness, n.  -- Jus"ti*fi`a*bly, adv. 

JUSTIFICATION:  The showing in court of a sufficient lawful reason why a party charged or accused did that for which he is called to answer.  3. (Theol.)  The act of justifying, or the state of being justified, in respect to God's requirements. Who was delivered for our offenses, and was raised again for our justification. Rom. iv. 25. In such righteousness To them by faith imputed, they may find Justification toward God, and peace Of conscience. Milton.  4. (Print.)  Adjustment of type by spacing it so as to make it exactly fill a line, or of a cut so as to hold it in the right place; also, the leads, quads, etc., used for making such adjustment. 

JUSTIFICATIVE:  Having power to justify; justificatory. 

JUSTIFICATOR:  One who justifies or vindicates; a justifier. Johnson. 

JUSTIFICATORY:  Vindicatory; defensory; justificative. 

JUSTIFIER:  One who justifies; one who vindicates, supports, defends, or absolves. Justifiers of themselves and hypocrites. Strype. That he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. Rom. iii. 26. 

JUSTIFY:  To treat as if righteous and just; to pardon; to exculpate; to absolve. By him all that believe are justified from all things, from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses. Acts xiii. 39.  4. To prove; to ratify; to confirm. [Obs.] Shak.  5. (Print.)  To make even or true, as lines of type, by proper spacing; to adjust, as type. See Justification, 4.  Syn.  -- To defend; maintain; vindicate; excuse; exculpate; absolve; exonerate. 

JUSTIFY:  To form an even surface or true line with something else; to fit exactly.  2. (Law)  To take oath to the ownership of property sufficient to qualify one's self as bail or surety. 

JUSTINIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Institutes or laws of the Roman Justinian. 

JUSTLE:  To run or strike against each other; to encounter; to clash; to jostle. Shak. The chariots shall rage in the streets; they shall justle one against another in the broad ways. Nahum ii. 4. 

JUSTLE:  To push; to drive; to force by running against; to jostle. We justled one another out, and disputed the post for a great while. Addison. 

JUSTLE:  An encounter or shock; a jostle. 

JUSTLY:  In a just manner; in conformity to law, justice, or propriety; by right; honestly; fairly; accurately. "In equal balance justly weighed." Shak. Nothing can justly be despised that can not justly be blamed: where there is no choice there can be no blame. South. 

JUSTNESS:  The quality of being just; conformity to truth, propriety, accuracy, exactness, and the like; justice; reasonableness; fairness; equity; as, justness of proportions; the justness of a description or representation; the justness of a cause. In value the satisfaction I had in seeing it represented with all the justness and gracefulness of action. Dryden.  Note: Justness is properly applied to things, and justice to persons; but the distinction is not always observed.  Syn.  -- Accuracy; exactness; correctness; propriety; fitness; reasonableness; equity; uprightness; justice. 

JUTE:  The coarse, strong fiber of the East Indian Corchorus olitorius, and C. capsularis; also, the plant itself. The fiber is much used for making mats, gunny cloth, cordage, hangings, paper, etc. 

JUTES:  Jutlanders; one of the Low German tribes, a portion of which settled in Kent, England, in the 5th century. 

JUTLANDER:  A native or inhabitant of Jutland in Denmark. 

JUTLANDISH:  Of or pertaining to Jutland, or to the people of Jutland. 

JUTTING:  Projecting, as corbels, cornices, etc.  -- Jut"ting*ly, adv. 

JUTTY:  A projection in a building; also, a pier or mole; a jetty. Shak. 

JUTTY:  To project beyond. [Obs.] Shak. 

JUVENAL:  A youth. [Obs.] Shak. 

JUVENESCENCE:  A growing young. 

JUVENESCENT:  Growing or becoming young. 

JUVENILE:  A young person or youth; -- used sportively or familiarly. C. Bronté. 

JUVENILENESS:  The state or quality of being juvenile; juvenility. 

JUVIA:  A Brazilian name for the lofty myrtaceous tree (Bertholetia excelsa) which produces the large seeds known as Brazil nuts. 

JUWANSA:  The camel's thorn. See under Camel. 

JUWISE:  Same as Juise. Chaucer. 

JUXTAPOSE:  To place in juxtaposition. Huxley. 

JUXTAPOSIT:  To place in close connection or contiguity; to juxtapose. Derham. 

JUXTAPOSITION:  A placing or being placed in nearness or contiguity, or side by side; as, a juxtaposition of words. Parts that are united by a a mere juxtaposition. Glanvill. Juxtaposition is a very unsafe criterion of continuity. Hare. 

JYMOLD:  See Gimmal. 

K:  (K is from the Latin, which used the letter but little except in the early period of the language. It came into the Latin from the Greek, which received it from a Phoenician source, the ultimate origin probably being Egyptian,. Etymologically K is most nearly related to c, g, h (which see).  Note: In many words of one syllable k is used after c, as in crack, check, deck, being necessary to exhibit a correct pronunciation in the derivatives, cracked, checked, decked, cracking; since without it, c, before the vowels e and i, would be sounded like s. Formerly, k was added to c in certain words of Latin origin, as in musick, publick, republick; but now it is omitted.  Note: See Guide to Pronunciation , §§ 240, 178, 179, 185. 

KAAMA:  The hartbeest. 

KABALA:  See Cabala. 

KABASSOU:  See Cabassou. 

KABOB:  See Cabob, n. & v. t. 

KABOOK:  A clay ironstone found in Ceylon. 

KABYLE:  A Berber, as in Algiers or Tunis. See Berber. 

KADDER:  The jackdaw.  KADI; KADIASTER Ka"di, Ka`di*as"ter, n.  A Turkish judge. See Cadi. 

KAFAL:  The Arabian name of two trees of the genus Balsamodendron, which yield a gum resin and a red aromatic wood.  KAFFIR; KAFIR Kaf"fir, Ka"fir, n. Etym: [Ar. k infidel, pagan, fr. kafara to be skeptical in religious matters; -- a name given to certain infidel races by the Mohammedans. Cf. Giaour.] (Ethnol.) (a) One of a race which, with the Hottentots and Bushmen, inhabit South Africa. They inhabit the country north of Cape Colony, the name being now specifically applied to the tribes living between Cape Colony and Natal; but the Zulus of Natal are true Kaffirs. (b) One of a race inhabiting Kafiristan in Central Asia. [Spelt also Caffre.] Kaffir corn (Bot.), a Cape Colony name for Indian millet. 

KAFFLE:  See Coffle. 

KAFILAH:  See Cafila. 

KAFTAN:  See Caftan. 

KAGE:  A chantry chapel inclosed with lattice or screen work. 

KAGU:  A singular, crested, grallatorial bird (Rhinochetos jubatus), native of New Caledonia. It is gray above, paler beneath, and the feathers of the wings and tail are handsomely barred with brown, black, and gray. It is allied to the sun bittern. 

KAGUAN:  The colugo. 

KAHANI:  A kind of notary public, or attorney, in the Levant. 

KAHAU:  A long-nosed monkey (Semnopithecus nasalis), native of Borneo. The general color of the body is bright chestnut, with the under parts, shoulders, and sides of the head, golden yellow, and the top of the head and upper part of the back brown. Called also proboscis monkey. [Written also kaha.] 

KAIL:  A kind of headless cabbage. Same as Kale, 1.  2. Any cabbage, greens, or vegetables. [OE. or Scot.]  3. A broth made with kail or other vegetables; hence, any broth; also, a dinner. [Scot.] Kail yard, a kitchen garden. [Scot.] 

KAIMACAM:  Same as Caimacam. 

KAIN:  Poultry, etc., required by the lease to be paid in kind by a tenant to his landlord. Wharton (Law Dict.). 

KAINIT:  Salts of potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizers. 

KAINITE:  A compound salt consisting chiefly of potassium chloride and magnesium sulphate, occurring at the Stassfurt salt mines in Prussian Saxony. 

KAINOZOIC:  See Cenozoic. 

KAIQUE:  See Caique. 

KAIRINE:  A pale buff or white crystalline alkaloid derived from quinoline, and used as an antipyretic in medicine. 

KAIROLINE:  An organic base obtained from quinoline. It is used as a febrifuge, and resembles kairine. 

KAISER:  The ancient title of emperors of Germany assumed by King William of Prussia when crowned sovereign of the new German empire in 1871. 

KAKA:  A New Zealand parrot of the genus Nestor, especially the brown parrot (Nestor meridionalis).  Note: The mountain kaka, or kea (N. notabilis), is remarkable for having recently acquired carnivorous habits. It attacks and kills lambs and pigs, sometimes doing great damage. Night kaka. (Zoöl.) The kakapo. 

KAKAPO:  A singular nocturnal parrot (Strigops habroptilus), native of New Zealand. It lives in holes during the day, but is active at night. It resembles an owl in its colors and general appearance. It has large wings, but can fly only a short distance. Called also owl parrot, night parrot, and night kaka. 

KAKARALLI:  A kind of wood common in Demerara, durable in salt water, because not subject to the depredations of the sea worm and barnacle. 

KAKISTOCRACY:  Government by the worst men. 

KAKOXENE:  See Cacoxene. 

KALAN:  The sea otter. 

KALASIE:  A long-tailed monkey of Borneo (Semnopithecus rubicundus). It has a tuft of long hair on the head. 

KALE:  A variety of cabbage in which the leaves do not form a head, being nearly the original or wild form of the species. [Written also kail, and cale.]  2. See Kail, 2. Sea kale (Bot.), a European cruciferous herb (Crambe maritima), often used as a pot herb; sea cabbage. 

KALEEGE:  One of several species of large, crested, Asiatic pheasants, belonging to the genus Euplocamus, and allied to the firebacks.  KALEIDOPHON; KALEIDOPHONE Ka*lei"do*phon, Ka*lei"do*phone, Etym: [Gr. (Physics.)  An instrument invented by Professor Wheatstone, consisting of a reflecting knob at the end of a vibrating rod or thin plate, for making visible, in the motion of a point of light reflected from the knob, the paths or curves corresponding with the musical notes produced by the vibrations. 

KALEIDOSCOPE:  An instrument invented by Sir David Brewster, which contains loose fragments of colored glass, etc., and reflecting surfaces so arranged that changes of position exhibit its contents in an endless variety of beautiful colors and symmetrical forms. It has been much employed in arts of design. Shifting like the fragments of colored glass in the kaleidoscope. G. W. Cable.  KALEIDOSCOPIC; KALEIDOSCOPICAL Ka*lei`do*scop"ic, Ka*lei`do*scop"ic*al, a.  Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a kaleidoscope; variegated. 

KALENDAR:  See Calendar. 

KALENDARIAL:  See Calendarial. 

KALENDER:  See 3d Calender. 

KALENDS:  Same as Calends. 

KALI:  The last and worst of the four ages of the world; -- considered to have begun B. C. 3102, and to last 432,000 years. 

KALI:  The black, destroying goddess; -- called also Doorga, Anna Purna. 

KALI:  The glasswort (Salsola Kali). 

KALIF:  See Caliph. 

KALIFORM:  Formed like kali, or glasswort. 

KALIGENOUS:  Forming alkalies with oxygen, as some metals. 

KALIUM:  Potassium; -- so called by the German chemists. 

KALKI:  The name of Vishnu in his tenth and last avatar. Whitworth. 

KALMIA:  A genus of North American shrubs with poisonous evergreen foliage and corymbs of showy flowers. Called also mountain laurel, ivy bush, lamb kill, calico bush, etc. 

KALMUCK:  See Calmucks.  2. A kind of shaggy cloth, resembling bearskin.  3. A coarse, dyed, cotton cloth, made in Prussia. 

KALONG:  A fruit bat, esp. the Indian edible fruit bat (Pteropus edulis). 

KALOYER:  See Caloyer. 

KALPA:  One of the Brahmanic eons, a period of 4,320,000,000 years. At the end of each Kalpa the world is annihilated. 

KALSOMINE:  Same as Calcimine. 

KAM:  Crooked; awry. [Obs.] "This is clean kam." Shak. 

KAMA:  The Hindoo Cupid. He is represented as a beautiful youth, with a bow of sugar cane or flowers. 

KAMALA:  The red dusty hairs of the capsules of an East Indian tree (Mallotus Philippinensis) used for dyeing silk. It is violently emetic, and is used in the treatment of tapeworm. [Written also kameela.] 

KAME:  A low ridge. [Scot.] See Eschar. 

KAMI:  A title given to the celestial gods of the first mythical dynasty of Japan and extended to the demigods of the second dynasty, and then to the long line of spiritual princes still represented by the mikado. 

KAMICHI:  A curious South American bird (Anhima, or Palamedea, cornuta), often domesticated by the natives and kept with poultry, which it defends against birds of prey. It has a long, slender, hornlike ornament on its head, and two sharp spurs on each wing. Although its beak, feet, and legs resemble those of gallinaceous birds, it is related in anatomical characters to the ducks and geese (Anseres). Called also horned screamer. The name is sometimes applied also to the chaja. See Chaja, and Screamer. 

KAMPTULICON:  A kind of elastic floor cloth, made of India rubber, gutta- percha, linseed oil, and powdered cork. 

KAMPYLITE:  A variety of mimetite or arseniate of lead in hexagonal prisms of a fine orange yellow. [Written also campylite.]  KAMSIN; KHAMSIN Kam*sin", Kham*sin", n. Etym: [Ar. khamsin, fr. khamsun, oblique case khamsin, fifty; -- so called because it blows for about fifty days, from April till June.]  A hot southwesterly wind in Egypt, coming from the Sahara. [Written also Khamseen.] 

KAMTSCHADALES:  An aboriginal tribe inhabiting the southern part of Kamtschatka. 

KAN:  To know; to ken. [Obs.] See Ken. 

KAN:  See Khan.  KANACKA; KANAKA Ka*nack"a, Ka*na"ka, n. Etym: [Native name, prop., a man.]  A native of the Sandwich Islands. 

KANCHIL:  A small chevrotain of the genus Tragulus, esp. T. pygmæus, or T. kanchil, inhabiting Java, Sumatra, and adjacent islands; a deerlet. It is noted for its agility and cunning. 

KAND:  Fluor spar; -- so called by Cornish miners. 

KANGAROO:  Any one of numerous species of jumping marsupials of the family Macropodidæ. They inhabit Australia, New Guinea, and adjacent islands, They have long and strong hind legs and a large tail, while the fore legs are comparatively short and feeble. The giant kangaroo (Macropus major) is the largest species, sometimes becoming twelve or fourteen feet in total length. The tree kangaroos, belonging to the genus Dendrolagus, live in trees; the rock kangaroos, of the genus Petrogale, inhabit rocky situations; and the brush kangaroos, of the genus Halmaturus, inhabit wooded districts. See Wallaby.  Kangaroo apple (Bot.), the edible fruit of the Tasmanian plant Solanum aviculare.  -- Kangaroo grass (Bot.), a perennial Australian forage grass (Anthistiria australis).  -- Kangaroo hare (Zoöl.), the jerboa kangaroo. See under Jerboa.  -- Kangaroo mouse. (Zoöl.) See Jumping mouse, under Jumping.  -- Kangaroo rat (Zoöl.), the potoroo. 

KANSAS:  A tribe of Indians allied to the Winnebagoes and Osages. They formerly inhabited the region which is now the State of Kansas, but were removed to the Indian Territory. 

KANTIAN:  Of or pertaining to Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher; conformed or relating to any or all of the philosophical doctrines of Immanuel Kant. 

KANTIAN:  A follower of Kant; a Kantist.  KANTIANISM; KANTISM Kant"i*an*ism, Kant"ism, n.  The doctrine or theory of Kant; the Kantian philosophy. 

KANTIST:  A disciple or follower of Kant. 

KANTTRY:  Same as Cantred.  KAOLIN; KAOLINE Ka"o*lin, Ka"o*line, n. Etym: [Chin. kao-ling.] (Min.)  A very pure white clay, ordinarily in the form of an impalpable powder, and used to form the paste of porcelain; China clay; porcelain clay. It is chiefly derived from the decomposition of common feldspar.  Note: The name is now applied to all porcelain clays which endure the fire without discoloration. 

KAOLINIZATION:  The process by which feldspar is changed into kaolin. 

KAOLINIZE:  To convert into kaolin. 

KAPELLE:  A chapel; hence, the choir or orchestra of a prince's chapel; now, a musical establishment, usually orchestral. Grove. 

KAPELLMEISTER:  See Capellmeister. 

KAPIA:  The fossil resin of the kauri tree of New Zealand. 

KAPNOMAR:  ) See Capnomor. 

KAPOK:  A silky wool derived from the seeds of Ceiba pentandra (syn. Eriodendron anfractuosum), a bombaceous tree of the East and West Indies. 

KARAGANE:  A species of gray fox found in Russia. 

KARAISM:  Doctrines of the Karaites. 

KARAITE:  A sect of Jews who adhere closely to the letter of the Scriptures, rejecting the oral law, and allowing the Talmud no binding authority; -- opposed to the Rabbinists. 

KARAKUL:  Astrakhan, esp. in fine grades. Cf. Caracul. 

KARATAS:  A West Indian plant of the Pineapple family (Nidularium Karatas). 

KARMA:  One's acts considered as fixing one's lot in the future existence. (Theos.) The doctrine of fate as the inflexible result of cause and effect; the theory of inevitable consequence. 

KARMATHIAN:  One of a Mohammedan sect founded in the ninth century by Karmat. 

KARN:  A pile of rocks; sometimes, the solid rock. See Cairn. 

KAROB:  The twenty-fourth part of a grain; -- a weight used by goldsmiths. Crabb. 

KAROSS:  A native garment or rug of skin sewed together in the form of a square. [South Africa]  The wants of a native . . . are confined to a kaross (skin cloak) or some pieces of cotton cloth. James Bryce. 

KARPHOLITE:  A fibrous mineral occurring in tufts of a straw-yellow color. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and manganese. 

KARROO:  One of the dry table-lands of South Africa, which often rise terracelike to considerable elevations. [Also karoo.] The Great Karroo, or The Karroo, a vast plateau, in Cape Colony, stretching through five degrees of longitude, at an elevation of about 3,000 feet. 

KARSTENITE:  Same as Anhydrite. 

KARVEL:  See Carvel, and Caravel. 

KARYOKINESIS:  The indirect division of cells in which, prior to division of the cell protoplasm, complicated changes take place in the nucleus, attended with movement of the nuclear fibrils; -- opposed to karyostenosis. The nucleus becomes enlarged and convoluted, and finally the threads are separated into two groups which ultimately become disconnected and constitute the daughter nuclei. Called also mitosis. See Cell development, under Cell. 

KARYOKINETIC:  Of or pertaining to karyokinesis; as, karyokinetic changes of cell division. 

KARYOMITON:  The reticular network of fine fibers, of which the nucleus of a cell is in part composed; -- in opposition to kytomiton, or the network in the body of the cell. W. Flemming. 

KARYOPLASMA:  The protoplasmic substance of the nucleus of a cell: nucleoplasm; -- in opposition to kytoplasma, the protoplasm of the cell. 

KARYOSTENOSIS:  Direct cell division (in which there is first a simple division of the nucleus, without any changes in its structure, followed by division of the protoplasm of the karyostenotic mode of nuclear division. 

KARYOSTENOTIC:  Pertaining to, or connected with, karyostenosis; as, the karyostenotic mode of nuclear division. 

KASACK:  Same as Cossack. 

KAT:  An Arabian shrub Catha edulis) the leaves of which are used as tea by the Arabs. 

KATABOLIC:  Of or pertaining to katabolism; as, katabolic processes, which give rise to substances (katastates) of decreasing complexity and increasing stability. 

KATABOLISM:  Destructive or downward metabolism; regressive metamorphism; -- opposed to anabolism. See Disassimilation. 

KATASTATE:  (Physiol.) A substance formed by a katabolic process; -- opposed to anastate. See Katabolic. 

KATE:  The brambling finch. 

KATHETAL:  Making a right angle; perpendicular, as two lines or two sides of a triangle, which include a right angle. 

KATHETOMETER:  Same as Cathetometer. 

KATTIMUNDOO:  A caoutchouc like substance obtained from the milky juice of the East Indian Euphorbia Kattimundoo. It is used as a cement. 

KATYDID:  A large, green, arboreal, orthopterous insect (Cyrtophyllus concavus) of the family Locustidæ, common in the United States. The males have stridulating organs at the bases of the front wings. During the summer and autumn, in the evening, the males make a peculiar, loud, shrill sound, resembling the combination Katy-did, whence the name. 

KAURI:  A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, or Dammara, australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind of dammar resin. [Written also kaudi, cowdie, and cowrie.]  KAURI RESIN; KAURI GUM; KAURI COPAL Kauri resin, gum, or copal.  A resinous product of the kauri, found in the form of yellow or brown lumps in the ground where the trees have grown. It is used for making varnish, and as a substitute for amber. 

KAVA:  A species of Macropiper (M. methysticum), the long pepper, from the root of which an intoxicating beverage is made by the Polynesians, by a process of mastication; also, the beverage itself. [Written also kawa, kava, and ava.] 

KAVASS:  An armed constable; also, a government servant or courier. [Turkey] 

KAW:  See Caw. 

KAWAKA:  a New Zealand tree, the Cypress cedar (Libocedrus Doniana), having a valuable, fine-grained, reddish wood. 

KAWN:  A inn. [Turkey] See Khan. 

KAYAK:  A light canoe, made of skins stretched over a frame, and usually capable of carrying but one person, who sits amidships and uses a double-bladed paddle. It is peculiar to the Eskimos and other Arctic tribes. 

KAYAKER:  One who uses a kayak. 

KAYKO:  The dog salmon. 

KAYLES:  A game; ninepins. [Prov Eng.] Carew. 

KAYNARD:  A lazy or cowardly person; a rascal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KAZOO:  A kind of toy or rude musical instrument, as a tube inside of which is a stretched string made to vibrate by singing or humming into the tube. 

KEA:  A large New Zealand parrot (Nestor notabilis), notorious for having acquired the habit of killing sheep; -- called also mountain parrot. 

KECK:  To heave or to retch, as in an effort to vomit. [R.] Swift. 

KECK:  An effort to vomit; queasiness. [R.] 

KECKLE:  See Keck, v. i. & n. 

KECKLE:  To wind old rope around, as a cable, to preserve its surface from being fretted, or to wind iron chains around, to defend from the friction of a rocky bottom, or from the ice. Totten. 

KECKLING:  Old rope or iron chains wound around a cable. See Keckle, v. t. 

KECKLISH:  Inclined to vomit; squeamish. [R.] Holland. 

KECKSY:  The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cow parsnip or the hemlock. [Written also kex, and in pl., kecks, kaxes.] Nothing teems But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs. Shak. 

KECKY:  Resembling a kecksy. Grew. 

KEDDAH:  An inclosure constructed to entrap wild elephants; an elephant trap. [India] 

KEDGE:  To move (a vessel) by carrying out a kedge in a boat, dropping it overboard, and hauling the vessel up to it. 

KEDGE:  A small anchor used whenever a large one can be dispensed witch. See Kedge, v. t., and Anchor, n. 

KEDGER:  A small anchor; a kedge. 

KEDLOCK:  See Charlock. 

KEE:  See Kie, Ky, and Kine. [Prov. Eng.] Gay. 

KEECH:  A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher. [Obs.] Shak. 

KEEL:  To cool; to akin or stir [Obs.] While greasy Joan doth keel the pot. Shak. 

KEEL:  A brewer's cooling vat; a keelfat. 

KEEL:  A longitudinal timber, or series of timbers scarfed together, extending from stem to stern along the bottom of a vessel. It is the principal timber of the vessel, and, by means of the ribs attached on each side, supports the vessel's frame. In an iron vessel, a combination of plates supplies the place of the keel of a wooden ship. See Illust. of Keelson.  2. Fig.: The whole ship.  3. A barge or lighter, used on the Type for carrying coal from Newcastle; also, a barge load of coal, twentyone tons, four cwt. [Eng.]  4. (Bot.)  The two lowest petals of the corolla of a papilionaceous flower, united and inclosing the stamens and pistil; a carina. See Carina.  5. (Nat. Hist.)  A projecting ridge along the middle of a flat or curved surface. Bilge keel (Naut.), a keel peculiar to ironclad vessels, extending only a portion of the length of the vessel under the bilges. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  -- False keel. See under False.  -- Keel boat. (a) A covered freight boat, with a keel, but no sails, used on Western rivers. [U. S.] (b) A low, flat-bottomed freight boat. See Keel, n., 3.  -- Keel piece, one of the timbers or sections of which a keel is composed. On even keel, in a level or horizontal position, so that the draught of water at the stern and the bow is the same. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

KEELAGE:  The right of demanding a duty or toll for a ship entering a port; also, the duty or toll. Bouvier. Wharton. 

KEELED:  Keel-shaped; having a longitudinal prominence on the back; as, a keeled leaf.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having a median ridge; carinate; as, a keeled scale. 

KEELFAT:  A cooler; a vat for cooling wort, etc. [Written also keelvat.] Johnson. 

KEELHAUL:  To haul under the keel of a ship, by ropes attached to the yardarms on each side. It was formerly practiced as a punishment in the Dutch and English navies. Totten. 

KEELING:  A cod. 

KEELIVINE:  A pencil of black or red lead; -- called also keelyvine pen. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

KEELMAN:  See Keeler,  1. 

KEELRAKE:  Same as Keelhaul. 

KEELS:  Ninepins. See Kayles. 

KEELSON:  A piece of timber in a ship laid on the middle of the floor timbers over the keel, and binding the floor timbers to the keel; in iron vessels, a structure of plates, situated like the keelson of a timber ship. Cross keelson, a similar structure lying athwart the main keelson, to support the engines and boilers. 

KEELVAT:  See Keelfat. 

KEEN:  To sharpen; to make cold. [R.] Cold winter keens the brightening flood. Thomson. 

KEEN:  A prolonged wail for a deceased person. Cf. Coranach. [Ireland] Froude. 

KEEN:  To wail as a keener does. [Ireland] 

KEENER:  A professional mourner who wails at a funeral. [Ireland] 

KEENLY:  In a keen manner. 

KEENNESS:  The quality or state of being keen. 

KEEP:  A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place. To take keep, to take care; to heed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KEEPERSHIP:  The office or position of a keeper. Carew. 

KEEPING:  Harmony or correspondence between the different parts of a work of art; as, the foreground of this painting is not in keeping. Keeping room, a family sitting room. [New Eng. & Prov. Eng.]  Syn.  -- Care; guardianship; custody; possession. 

KEEPSAKE:  Anything kept, or given to be kept, for the sake of the giver; a token of friendship. 

KEESH:  See Kish. 

KEEVE:  A vat or tub in which the mash is made; a mash tub. Ure.  2. (Bleaching)  A bleaching vat; a kier.  3. (Mining)  A large vat used in dressing ores. 

KEEVER:  See Keeve, n.  KEFFE-KIL Kef"fe-kil, n. (Min.)  See Kiefekil. 

KEFIR:  An effervescent liquor like kumiss, made from fermented milk, used as a food and as a medicine in the northern Caucasus. -- Ke*fir"ic (#), a.  KEFIR GRAINS Kefir grains.  Small hard yellowish aggregations found in the Caucasus region, and containing various yeasts and bacteria. They are used as a ferment in preparing kefir. 

KEG:  A small cask or barrel. 

KEILHAUITE:  A mineral of a brownish black color, related to titanite in form. It consists chiefly of silica, titanium dioxide, lime, and yttria. 

KEIR:  See Kier. 

KEITLOA:  A black, two-horned, African rhinoceros (Atelodus keitloa). It has the posterior horn about as long as the anterior one, or even longer. 

KELD:  Having a kell or covering; webbed. [Obs.] Drayton. 

KELE:  To cool. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KELL:  A kiln. [Obs.] 

KELL:  A sort of pottage; kale. See Kale, 2. Ainsworth. 

KELOID:  Applied to a variety of tumor forming hard, flat, irregular excrescences upon the skin.  -- n.  A keloid tumor. 

KELOTOMY:  See Celotomy. 

KELP:  Any large blackish seaweed.  Note: Laminaria is the common kelp of Great Britain; Macrocystis pyrifera and Nereocystis Lutkeana are the great kelps of the Pacific Ocean. Kelp crab (Zoöl.), a California spider crab (Epialtus productus), found among seaweeds, which it resembles in color.  -- Kelp salmon (Zoöl.), a serranoid food fish (Serranus clathratus) of California. See Cabrilla. 

KELPFISH:  A small California food fish (Heterostichus rostratus), living among kelp. The name is also applied to species of the genus Platyglossus.  KELPIE; KELPY Kel"pie, Kel"py, n.; pl. Kelpies. Etym: [Cf. Gael. cailpeach, calpach, colpach, a heifer, steer, colt, colpa a cow or horse.] (Scotch Myth.)  An imaginary spirit of the waters, horselike in form, vulgarly believed to warn, by preternatural noises and lights, those who are to be drowned. Jamieson. 

KELPWARE:  Same as Kelp, 2. 

KELSON:  See Keelson. Sir W. Raleigh. 

KELT:  See Kilt, n. Jamieson. 

KELT:  Cloth with the nap, generally of native black wool. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

KELT:  A salmon after spawning. [Scot.] 

KELT:  Same as Celt, one of Celtic race. 

KELTER:  Regular order or proper condition. [Written also kilter.] [Colloq.] If the organs of prayer be out of kelter or out of tune, how can we pray Barrow. 

KELTIC:  Same as Celtic, a. & n. 

KEMB:  To comb. [Obs.] His longe hair was kembed behind his back. Chaucer. 

KEMELIN:  A tub; a brewer's vessel. [Obs.] Chaucer.  KEMP; KEMPTY Kemp, Kemp"ty, n.  Coarse, rough hair wool or fur, injuring its quality. 

KEMPE:  Rough; shaggy. [Obs.] "Kempe hairs." Chaucer. 

KEMPS:  The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (Plantago Lanceolata). Dr. Prior. 

KEMPT:  p. p. of Kemb. B. Jonson. 

KEN:  A house; esp., one which is a resort for thieves. [Slang, Eng.] 

KEN:  To look around. [Obs.] Burton. 

KEN:  Cognizance; view; especially, reach of sight or knowledge. "Beyond his ken." Longfellow. Above the reach and ken of a mortal apprehension. South. It was relief to quit the ken And the inquiring looks of men. Trench.  KENDAL GREEN; KENDAL Ken"dal green`, or; Ken"dal.  A cloth colored green by dye obtained from the woad-waxen, formerly used by Flemish weavers at Kendal, in Westmoreland, England. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). How couldst thou know these men in Kendal green Shak. 

KENNEL:  The water course of a street; a little canal or channel; a gutter; also, a puddle. Bp. Hall. 

KENNEL:  To lie or lodge; to dwell, as a dog or a fox. The dog kenneled in a hollow tree. L'Estrange. 

KENNEL:  To put or keep in a kennel. Thomson.  KENNEL COAL Ken"nel coal`  . See Cannel coal. 

KENO:  A gambling game, a variety of the game of lotto, played with balls or knobs, numbered, and cards also numbered. [U. S.] 

KENOGENESIS:  Modified evolution, in which nonprimitive characters make their appearance in consequence of a secondary adaptation of the embryo to the peculiar conditions of its environment; -- distinguished from palingenesis. [Written also cænogenesis.] 

KENOGENETIC:  Of or pertaining to kenogenesis; as, kenogenetic processes.  -- Ken`o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv. 

KENSPECKLE:  Having so marked an appearance as easily to be recognized. [Scot.]  KENT BUGLE Kent" bu"gle. Etym: [Probably named after a Duke of Kent.] (Mus.)  A curved bugle, having six finger keys or stops, by means of which the performer can play upon every key in the musical scale; -- called also keyed bugle, and key bugle. Moore. 

KENTLE:  A hundred weight; a quintal. 

KENTLEDGE:  Pigs of iron used for ballast. [Written also kintlidge.] 

KENTUCKY:  One of the United States. Kentucky blue grass (Bot.), a valuable pasture and meadow grass (Poa pratensis), found in both Europe and America. See under Blue grass.  -- Kentucky coffee tree (Bot.), a tall North American tree (Gymnocladus Canadensis) with bipinnate leaves. It produces large woody pods containing a few seeds which have been used as a substitute for coffee. The timber is a very valuable. 

KEPHALIN:  One of a group of nitrogenous phosphorized principles, supposed by Thudichum to exist in brain tissue. 

KEPI:  A military cap having a close-fitting band, a round flat top sloping toward the front, and a visor. As originally worn by the French in Algeria about 1830 it was tall and stiff with a straight visor. It is now lower, has a curved visor, and is frequently soft. 

KEPT:  of Keep. Kept mistress, a concubine; a woman supported by a man as his paramour. 

KEPVISELOHAZ:  See Legislature. 

KERAMIC:  Same as Ceramic. 

KERAMICS:  Same as Ceramics. 

KERAMOGRAPHIC:  Suitable to be written upon; capable of being written upon, as a slate; -- said especially of a certain kind of globe. Scudamore. 

KERANA:  A kind of long trumpet, used among the Persians. Moore (Encyc. of Music). 

KERARGYRITE:  See Cerargyrite. 

KERASIN:  A nitrogenous substance free from phosphorus, supposed to be present in the brain; a body closely related to cerebrin. 

KERASINE:  Resembling horn; horny; corneous. 

KERATIN:  A nitrogenous substance, or mixture of substances, containing sulphur in a loose state of combination, and forming the chemical basis of epidermal tissues, such as horn, hair, feathers, and the like. It is an insoluble substance, and, unlike elastin, is not dissolved even by gastric or pancreatic juice. By decomposition with sulphuric acid it yields leucin and tyrosin, as does albumin. Called also epidermose. 

KERATITIS:  Inflammation of the cornea. 

KERATODE:  See Keratose. 

KERATOGENOUS:  Producing horn; as, the keratogenous membrane within the horny hoof of the horse. 

KERATOIDEA:  Same as Keratosa. 

KERATOME:  An instrument for dividing the cornea in operations for cataract. 

KERATONYXIS:  The operation of removing a cataract by thrusting a needle through the cornea of the eye, and breaking up the opaque mass. 

KERATOPHYTE:  A gorgonian coral having a horny axis. 

KERATOSA:  An order of sponges having a skeleton composed of hornlike fibers. It includes the commercial sponges. 

KERATOSE:  A tough, horny animal substance entering into the composition of the skeleton of sponges, and other invertebrates; -- called also keratode. 

KERATOSE:  Containing hornlike fibers or fibers of keratose; belonging to the Keratosa. 

KERAUNOGRAPH:  A figure or picture impressed by lightning upon the human body or elsewhere.  -- Ker`au-nog"ra-phy, n. 

KERB:  See Curb. 

KERBSTONE:  See Curbstone. 

KERCHER:  A kerchief. [Obs.] He became . . . white as a kercher. Sir T. North. 

KERCHERED:  Covered, or bound round, with a kercher. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 

KERCHIEF:  Dressed; hooded; covered; wearing a kerchief. Milton. 

KERF:  A notch, channel, or slit made in any material by cutting or sawing. 

KERITE:  A compound in which tar or asphaltum combined with animal or vegetable oils is vulcanized by sulphur, the product closely resembling rubber; -- used principally as an insulating material in telegraphy. Knight. 

KERL:  See Carl. 

KERMES:  The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccus ilicis), allied to the cochineal insect, and found on several species of oak near the Mediterranean. They are round, about the size of a pea, contain coloring matter analogous to carmine, and are used in dyeing. They were anciently thought to be of a vegetable nature, and were used in medicine. [Written also chermes.]  2. (Bot.)  A small European evergreen oak (Quercus coccifera) on which the kermes insect (Coccus ilicis) feeds. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). Kermes mineral. (a) (Old Chem.) An artificial amorphous trisulphide of antimony; -- so called on account of its red color. (b) (Med. Chem.) A compound of the trioxide and trisulphide of antimony, used in medicine. This substance occurs in nature as the mineral kermesite. 

KERMESSE:  See Kirmess. 

KERN:  An idler; a vagabond. Wharton. 

KERN:  A part of the face of a type which projects beyond the body, or shank. 

KERN:  To form with a kern. See 2d Kern. 

KERN:  A churn. [Prov. Eng.] 

KERN:  A hand mill. See Quern. Johnson. 

KERN:  A doll or image decorated with corn (grain) flowers, etc., carried in the festivals of a kern, or harvest-home. Called also harvest queen. 

KERNED:  Having part of the face projecting beyond the body or shank; -- said of type. "In Roman, f and j are the only kerned letters." MacKellar. 

KERNEL:  To harden or ripen into kernels; to produce kernels.  KERNELED; KERNELLED Ker"neled, Ker"nelled, a.  Having a kernel. 

KERNELLY:  Full of kernels; resembling kernels; of the nature of kernels. Holland. 

KERNISH:  Clownish; booorish. [Obs.] "A petty kernish prince." Milton. 

KEROLITE:  Same as Cerolite. 

KEROSENE:  An oil used for illuminating purposes, formerly obtained from the distillation of mineral wax, bituminous shale, etc., and hence called also coal oil. It is now produced in immense quantities, chiefly by the distillation and purification of petroleum. It consists chiefly of several hydrocarbons of the methane series.  KERS; KERSE Kers, Kerse, n.  A cress. [Obs.] Chaucer. Not worth a kers. See under Cress. 

KERSEY:  A kind of coarse, woolen cloth, usually ribbed, woven from wool of long staple. 

KERSEYMERE:  See Cassimere. 

KERSEYNETTE:  See Cassinette. 

KERSEYS:  Varieties of kersey; also, trousers made of kersey. 

KERVE:  To carve. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KERVER:  A carver. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KESAR:  See Kaiser [Obs.] Spenser. 

KESLOP:  The stomach of a calf, prepared for rennet. Halliwell. 

KESS:  To kiss. [Obs.] Chaucer 

KEST:  of Cast. [Obs.] 

KESTREL:  A small, slender European hawk (Falco alaudarius), allied to the sparrow hawk. Its color is reddish fawn, streaked and spotted with white and black. Also called windhover and stannel. The name is also applied to other allied species.  Note: This word is often used in contempt, as of a mean kind of hawk. "Kites and kestrels have a resemblance with hawks." Bacon. 

KET:  Carrion; any filth. [Prob. Eng.] Halliwell. 

KETA:  A small salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) of inferior value, which in the autumn runs up all the larger rivers between San Francisco and Kamchatka. 

KETCH:  An almost obsolete form of vessel, with a mainmast and a mizzenmast, -- usually from one hundred to two hundred and fifty tons burden. Bomb ketch. See under Bomb. 

KETCH:  A hangman. See Jack Ketch. 

KETCH:  To catch. [Now obs. in spelling, and colloq. in pronunciation.] To ketch him at a vantage in his snares. Spenser. 

KETCHUP:  A sauce. See Catchup. 

KETINE:  One of a series of organic bases obtained by the reduction of certain isonitroso compounds of the ketones. In general they are unstable oily substances having a pungent aromatic odor. 

KETMIE:  The name of certain African species of Hibiscus, cultivated for the acid of their mucilage. [Written also ketmia.] 

KETOL:  One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances, represented by methyl ketol and related to indol. Methyl ketol, a weak organic base, obtained as a white crystalline substance having the odor of fæces. 

KETONE:  One of a large class of organic substances resembling the aldehydes, obtained by the distillation of certain salts of organic acids and consisting of carbonyl (CO) united with two hydrocarbon radicals. In general the ketones are colorless volatile liquids having a pungent ethereal odor.  Note: The ketones are named by adding the suffix-one to the stems of the organic acids from which they are respectively derived; thus, acetic acid gives acetone; butyric acid, butyrone, etc. 

KETONIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, a ketone; as, a ketonic acid. 

KETTLE:  A metallic vessel, with a wide mouth, often without a cover, used for heating and boiling water or other liguids. Kettle pins, ninepins; skittles. [Obs.] Shelton.  -- Kettle stitch (Bookbinding), the stitch made in sewing at the head and tail of a book. Knight. 

KETTLEDRUM:  A drum made of thin copper in the form of a hemispherical kettle, with parchment stretched over the mouth of it.  Note: Kettledrums, in pairs, were formerly used in martial music for cavalry, but are now chiefly confined to orchestras, where they are called tympani.  2. An informal social party at which a light collation is offered, held in the afternoon or early evening. Cf. Drum, n., 4 and 5. 

KETTLEDRUMMER:  One who plays on a kettledrum. 

KEUPER:  The upper division of the European Triassic. See Chart of Geology. 

KEVEL:  A strong cleat to which large ropes are belayed.  2. A stone mason's hammer. [Written also cavil.] Kevel head (Naut.), a projecting end of a timber, used as a kevel.  KEVEL; KEVIN Kev"el, Kev"in, n. (Zoöl.)  The gazelle. 

KEVER:  i. To cover. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KEVERCHIEF:  A kerchief. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KEX:  A weed; a kecksy. Bp. Gauden. Though the rough kex break The starred mosaic. Tennyson.  2. A dry husk or covering. When the kex, or husk, is broken, he proveth a fair flying butterfly. Holland. 

KEY:  An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit furnished with a wing, as the fruit of the ash and maple; a samara; -- called also key fruit.  10. (Mus.) (a) A family of tones whose regular members are called diatonic tones, and named key tone (or tonic) or one (or eight), mediant or three, dominant or five, subdominant or four, submediant or six, supertonic or two, and subtonic or seven. Chromatic tones are temporary members of a key, under such names as " sharp four," "flat seven," etc. Scales and tunes of every variety are made from the tones of a key. (b) The fundamental tone of a movement to which its modulations are referred, and with which it generally begins and ends; keynote. Both warbling of one song, both in one key. Shak.  11. Fig: The general pitch or tone of a sentence or utterance. You fall at once into a lower key. Cowper. Key bed. Same as Key seat.  -- Key bolt, a bolt which has a mortise near the end, and is secured by a cotter or wedge instead of a nut. Key bugle. See Kent bugle.  -- Key of a position or country. (Mil.) See Key, 4.  -- Key seat (Mach.), a bed or groove to receive a key which prevents one part from turning on the other.  -- Key way, a channel for a key, in the hole of a piece which is keyed to a shaft; an internal key seat; -- called also key seat.  -- Key wrench (Mach.), an adjustable wrench in which the movable jaw is made fast by a key.  -- Power of the keys (Eccl.), the authority claimed by the ministry in some Christian churches to administer the discipline of the church, and to grant or withhold its privileges; -- so called from the declaration of Christ, "I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven." Matt. xvi. 19. 

KEY:  To fasten or secure firmly; to fasten or tighten with keys or wedges. Francis. To key up. (a) (Arch.) To raise (the whole ring of an arch) off its centering, by driving in the keystone forcibly. (b) (Mus.) To raise the pitch of. (c) Hence, fig., to produce nervous tension in. 

KEYAGE:  Wharfage; quayage. 

KEYBOARD:  The whole arrangement, or one range, of the keys of an organ, typewriter, etc.  KEY-COLD Key"-cold`, a.  Cold as a metallic key; lifeless. [Formerly, a proverbial expression.] Shak. Milton. 

KEYED:  Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to a key, as a tune. Keyed bugle. See Kent bugle.  KEY FRUIT Key fruit. (Bot.)  A samara. 

KEYNOTE:  The tonic or first tone of the scale in which a piece or passage is written; the fundamental tone of the chord, to which all the modulations of the piece are referred; -- called also key tone.  2. The fundamental fact or idea; that which gives the key; as, the keynote of a policy or a sermon. 

KEYSEAT:  To form a key seat, as by cutting. See Key seat, under Key. 

KEYSTONE:  The central or topmost stone of an arch. This in some styles is made different in size from the other voussoirs, or projects, or is decorated with carving. See Illust. of Arch. Keystone State, the State of Pennsylvania; -- so called from its having been the central State of the Union at the formation of the Constitution.  KEYSTONE STATE Key"stone` State.  Pennsylvania; -- a nickname alluding to its having been the central one of the 13 original United States.  KEY TONE Key" tone`. (Mus.)  See Keynote. 

KEYWAY:  See Key way, under Key. 

KHAKI:  Of a dull brownish yellow, or drab color; -- applied to cloth, originally to a stout brownish cotton cloth, used in making uniforms in the Anglo-Indian army. In the United States service the summer uniform of cotton is officially designated khaki; the winter uniform of wool, olive drab. 

KHAKI:  Any kind of khaki cloth; hence, a uniform of khaki or, rarely, a soldier clad in khaki. In the United States and British armies khaki or cloth of a very similar color is almost exclusively used for service in the field. 

KHALIFF:  See Caliph. 

KHAMSIN:  Same as Kamsin. 

KHAN:  A king; a prince; a chief; a governor; -- so called among the Tartars, Turks, and Persians, and in countries now or formerly governed by them. 

KHAN:  An Eastern inn or caravansary. [Written also kawn.] 

KHANATE:  Dominion or jurisdiction of a khan. 

KHAYA:  A lofty West African tree (Khaya Senegalensis), related to the mahogany, which it resembles in the quality of the wood. The bark is used as a febrifuge. 

KHEDIVE:  A governor or viceroy; -- a title granted in 1867 by the sultan of Turkey to the ruler of Egypt. 

KHENNA:  See Henna. 

KHOLAH:  The Indian jackal. 

KHOLSUN:  The dhole. 

KHOND:  A Dravidian of a group of tribes of Orissa, India, a section of whom were formerly noted for their cruel human sacrifices to the earth goddess, murder of female infants, and marriage by capture. 

KHUTBAH:  An address or public prayer read from the steps of the pulpit in Mohammedan mosques, offering glory to God, praising Mohammed and his descendants, and the ruling princes.  KIABOOCA WOOD Ki`a*boo"ca wood`  . See Kyaboca wood. 

KIANG:  The dziggetai. 

KIBBLE:  To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell. 

KIBBLE:  A large iron bucket used in Cornwall and Wales for raising ore out of mines. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also kibbal.] 

KIBBLINGS:  Portions of small fish used for bait on the banks of Newfoundland. 

KIBE:  A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulcerated chilblain. "He galls his kibe." Shak. 

KIBED:  Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibed heels. Beau. & Fl. 

KIBLAH:  See Keblah. 

KIBY:  Affected with kibes. Skelton. 

KICHIL:  ,. [Obs.] See Kechil. Chaucer. 

KICK:  To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog. He [Frederick the Great] kicked the shins of his judges. Macaulay. To kick the beam, to fit up and strike the beam; -- said of the lighter arm of a loaded balance; hence, to be found wanting in weight. Milton.  -- To kick the bucket, to lose one's life; to die. [Colloq. & Low] 

KICK:  A projection in a mold, to form a depression in the surface of the brick.  4. The recoil of a musket or other firearm, when discharged. 

KICKABLE:  Capable or deserving of being kicked. "A kickable boy." G. Eliot. 

KICKAPOOS:  A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region of Northern Illinois, allied in language to the Sacs and Foxes. 

KICKER:  One who, or that which, kicks. 

KICKSHAW:  See Kickshaws, the correct singular. 

KICKSHOE:  A kickshaws. Milton.  KICKSY-WICKSY; KICKY-WISKY Kick"sy-wick`sy, Kick"y-wisk`y, n.  That which is restless and uneasy.  Note: Kicky-wicky, or, in some editions, Kicksy-wicksy, is applied contemptuously to a wife by Shakespeare, in "All's Well that Ends Well," ii. 3, 297.  KICKSY-WICKSY Kick"sy-wick`sy, a.  Fantastic; restless; as, kicksy-wicksy flames. Nares. 

KICKUP:  The water thrush or accentor. [Local, West Indies] 

KID:  A young goat. The . . . leopard shall lie down with the kid. Is. xi. 6 .  2. A young child or infant; hence, a simple person, easily imposed on. [Slang] Charles Reade.  3. A kind of leather made of the skin of the young goat, or of the skin of rats, etc.  4. pl.  Gloves made of kid. [Colloq. & Low]  5. A small wooden mess tub; -- a name given by sailors to one in which they receive their food. Cooper. 

KID:  To bring forth a young goat. 

KID:  A fagot; a bundle of heath and furze. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

KID:  of Kythe. [Obs.] Gower. Chaucer. 

KID:  See Kiddy, v. t. [Slang] 

KIDDE:  of Kythe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KIDDERMINSTER:  A kind of ingrain carpeting, named from the English town where formerly most of it was manufactured. 

KIDDIER:  A huckster; a cadger. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

KIDDLE:  A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish. [Improperly spelled kittle.] 

KIDDOW:  The guillemot. [Written also kiddaw.] [Prov. Eng.] 

KIDDY:  To deceive; to outwit; to hoax. [Slang] Dickens. 

KIDDY:  A young fellow; formerly, a low thief. [Slang, Eng.] 

KIDDYISH:  Frolicsome; sportive. [Slang]  KIDFOX; KID-FOX Kid"fox`. (Zoöl.)  A young fox Shak. 

KIDLING:  A young kid. 

KIDNAP:  To take (any one) by force or fear, and against one's will, with intent to carry to another place. Abbott. You may reason or expostulate with the parents, but never attempt to kidnap their children, and to make proselytes of them. Whately.  Note: Originally used only of stealing children, but now extended in application to any human being, involuntarily abducted.  KIDNAPER; KIDNAPPER Kid"nap`er, or; Kid"nap`per, n.  One who steals or forcibly carries away a human being; a manstealer. 

KIDNEY:  A glandular organ which excretes urea and other waste products from the animal body; a urinary gland.  Note: In man and in other mammals there are two kidneys, one each side of vertebral column in the back part of the abdomen, each kidney being connected with the bladder by a long tube, the ureter, through which the urine is constantly excreted into the bladder to be periodically discharged.  2. Habit; disposition; sort; kind. Shak. There are in later other decrees, made by popes of another kidney. Barrow. Millions in the world of this man's kidney. L'Estrange. Your poets, spendthrifts, and other fools of that kidney, pretend, forsooth, to crack their jokes on prudence. Burns.  Note: This use of the word perhaps arose from the fact that the kidneys and the fat about them are an easy test of the condition of an animal as to fatness. "Think of that, -- a man of my kidney; -- . . . as subject to heat as butter." Shak.  3. A waiter. [Old Cant] Tatler. Floating kidney. See Wandering kidney, under Wandering.  -- Kidney bean (Bot.), a sort of bean; -- so named from its shape. It is of the genus Phaseolus (P. vulgaris). See under Bean.  -- Kidney ore (Min.), a variety of hematite or iron sesquioxide, occurring in compact kidney-shaped masses.  -- Kidney stone. (Min.) See Nephrite, and Jade.  -- Kidney vetch (Bot.), a leguminous herb of Europe and Asia (Anthyllis vulneraria), with cloverlike heads of red or yellow flowers, once used as a remedy for renal disorders, and also to stop the flow of blood from wounds; lady's-fingers.  KIDNEY-FORM; KIDNEY-SHAPED Kid"ney-form`, Kid"ney-shaped`, a.  Having the form or shape of a kidney; reniform; as, a kidney- shaped leaf. Gray. 

KIE:  Kine; cows. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

KIEFEKIL:  A species of clay; meerschaum. [Also written keffekil.] 

KIER:  A large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the action of hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve. 

KIESELGUHR:  Siliceous earth; specifically, porous infusorial earth, used as an absorbent of nitroglycerin in the manufacture of dynamite. 

KIESERITE:  Hydrous sulphate of magnesia found at the salt mines of Stassfurt, Prussian Saxony. 

KIEVE:  See Keeve, n. 

KIKE:  To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KIKE:  To kick [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KILDERKIN:  A small barrel; an old liquid measure containing eighteen English beer gallons, or nearly twenty-two gallons, United States measure. [Written also kinderkin.] 

KILERG:  A unit of work equal to one thousand ergs.  KILKENNY CATS Kil*ken"ny cats.  Two cats fabled, in an Irish story, to have fought till nothing was left but their tails. It is probably a parable of a local contest between Kilkenny and Irishtown, which impoverished both towns. 

KILL:  A kiln. [Obs.] Fuller. 

KILL:  A channel or arm of the sea; a river; a stream; as, the channel between Staten Island and Bergen Neck is the Kill van Kull, or the Kills; -- used also in composition; as, Schuylkill, Catskill, etc. 

KILL:  A small American plover (Ægialitis vocifera).  Note: It is dark grayish brown above; the rump and upper tail coverts are yellowish rufous; the belly, throat, and a line over the eyes, white; a ring round the neck and band across the breast, black. 

KILLER:  A voracious, toothed whale of the genus Orca, of which several species are known.  Note: The killers have a high dorsal fin, and powerful jaws armed with large, sharp teeth. They capture, and swallow entire, large numbers of seals, porpoises, and dolphins, and are celebrated for their savage, combined attacks upon the right whales, which they are said to mutilate and kill. The common Atlantic species (Orca gladiator), is found both on the European and the American coast. Two species (Orca ater and O. rectipinna) occur on the Pacific coast. 

KILLIFISH:  Any one of several small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus and allied genera. They live equally well in fresh and brackish water, or even in the sea. They are usually striped or barred with black. Called also minnow, and brook fish. See Minnow. 

KILLIGREW:  The Cornish chough. See under Chough. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

KILLIKINICK:  See Kinnikinic. 

KILLING:  Literally, that kills; having power to kill; fatal; in a colloquial sense, conquering; captivating; irresistible.  -- Kill"ing*ly, adv. Those eyes are made so killing. Pope. Nothing could be more killingly spoken. Milton.  KILL-JOY Kill"-joy`, n.  One who causes gloom or grief; a dispiriting person. W. Black. 

KILLOCK:  A small anchor; also, a kind of anchor formed by a stone inclosed by pieces of wood fastened together. [Written also killick.] 

KILLOW:  An earth of a blackish or deep blue color. Woodward. 

KILN:  To dry in a kiln; as, to kiln-dry meal or grain. Mortimer. 

KILNHOLE:  The mouth or opening of an oven or kiln. Shak. 

KILO:  An abbreviation of Kilogram.  KILO- Kil"o-. [F. kilo-. See Kilogram.]  A combining form used to signify thousand in forming the names of units of measurement; as, kilogram, kilometer, kilowatt, etc.  KILOGRAM; KILOGRAMME Kil"o*gram, Kil"o*gramme, n. Etym: [F. kilogramme; pref. kilo- (fr. Gr. chi`lioi a thousand ) + gramme. See 3d Gram.]  A measure of weight, being a thousand grams, equal to 2.2046 pounds avoirdupois (15,432.34 grains). It is equal to the weight of a cubic decimeter of distilled water at the temperature of maximum density, or 39º Fahrenheit.  KILOGRAMMETER; KILOGRAMMETRE Kil"o*gram*me`ter, Kil"o*gram*me`tre, n. (Mech.)  A measure of energy or work done, being the amount expended in raising one kilogram through the height of one meter, in the latitude of Paris.  KILOLITER; KILOLITRE Kil"o*li`ter, Kil"o*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. kilolitre. See Kilogram, and Liter.]  A measure of capacity equal to a cubic meter, or a thousand liters. It is equivalent to 35.315 cubic feet, and to 220.04 imperial gallons, or 264.18 American gallons of 321 cubic inches.  KILOMETER; KILOMETRE Kil"o*me`ter, Kil"o*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. kilometre. See Kilogram, and Meter.]  A measure of length, being a thousand meters. It is equal to 3,280.8 feet, or 62137 of a mile. 

KILOSTERE:  A cubic measure containing 1000 cubic meters, and equivalent to 35,315 cubic feet. 

KILOVOLT:  A unit of electromotive force equal to one thousand volts. 

KILOWATT:  One thousand watts.  KILOWATT HOUR Kil"o*watt` hour. (Elec.)  A unit of work or energy equal to that done by one kilowatt acting for one hour; --approx. = 1.34 horse-power hour. 

KILT:  p. p. from Kill. [Obs.] Spenser. 

KILT:  A kind of short petticoat, reaching from the waist to the knees, worn in the Highlands of Scotland by men, and in the Lowlands by young boys; a filibeg. [Written also kelt.] 

KILT:  To tuck up; to truss up, as the clothes. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

KILTER:  See Kelter. 

KILTING:  A perpendicular arrangement of flat, single plaits, each plait being folded so as to cover half the breadth of the preceding one. 

KIMBO:  Crooked; arched; bent. [Written also kimbow.] Dryden. 

KIMMERIAN:  See Cimmerian. 

KIMNEL:  A tub. See Kemelin. [Obs.] She knew not what a kimnel was Beau. & Fl. 

KIMRY:  See Cymry. 

KIN:  A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin. 

KIN:  A primitive Chinese instrument of the cittern kind, with from five to twenty-five silken strings. Riemann. 

KIN:  Of the same nature or kind; kinder. "Kin to the king." Shak.  -KIN -kin (-kin). [Of Low German origin; cf. G. -chen, LG. -- ken.]  A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin. 

KINAESODIC:  Kinesodic. 

KINAESTHESIS:  The perception attendant upon the movements of the muscles. Bastian.  KINAESTHETIC; KINESTHETIC Kin`æs*thet"ic, Kin`es*thet"ic, a.  Of, pertaining to, or involving, kinæsthesis. 

KINATE:  See Quinate. [Obsolescent] 

KINCOB:  India silk brocaded with flowers in silver or gold.  -- a.  Of the nature of kincob; brocaded. Thackeray. 

KIND:  To beget. [Obs.] Spenser. 

KINDERGARTEN:  A school for young children, conducted on the theory that education should be begun by gratifying and cultivating the normal aptitude for exercise, play, observation, imitation, and construction; -- a name given by Friedrich Froebel, a German educator, who introduced this method of training, in rooms opening on a garden. 

KINDERGARTNER:  One who teaches in a kindergarten.  KIND-HEARTED Kind"-heart`ed, a.  Having kindness of nature; sympathetic; characterized by a humane disposition; as, a kind-hearted landlord. To thy self at least kind-hearted prove. Shak.  KIND-HEARTEDNESS Kind"-heart`ed*ness, n.  The state or quality of being kind-hearted; benevolence. 

KINDLE:  To bring forth young. [Obs.] Shak. The poor beast had but lately kindled. Holland. 

KINDLER:  One who, or that which, kindles, stirs up, or sets on fire."Kindlers of riot." Gay. 

KINDLESS:  Destitute of kindness; unnatural.[Obs.] "Kindless villain." Shak. 

KINDLING:  Materials, easily lighted, for starting a fire. 

KINDRED:  Related; congenial; of the like nature or properties; as, kindred souls; kindred skies; kindred propositions. True to the kindred points of heaven and home. Wordsworth. 

KINE:  Cows. "A herd of fifty or sixty kine." Milton.  KINEMATIC; KINEMATICAL Kin`e*mat"ic, Kin`e*mat"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to kinematics. Kinematic curves, curves produced by machinery, or a combination of motions, as distinguished from mathematical curves. 

KINEMATICS:  The science which treats of motions considered in themselves, or apart from their causes; the comparison and relation of motions.  Note: Kinematics forms properly an introduction to mechanics, as involving the mathematical principles which are to be applied to its data of forces. Nichol. 

KINEPOX:  See Cowpox. Kin"e*scope (, n.  See Kinetoscope. 

KINESIATRICS:  A mode of treating disease by appropriate muscular movements; - - also termed kinesitherapy, kinesipathy, lingism, and the movement cure. 

KINESIPATHY:  See Kinesiatrics. 

KINESIPATHY:  See Kinesiatrics. 

KINESITHERAPY:  See Kinesiatrics. 

KINESODIC:  Conveying motion; as; kinesodic substance; -- applied esp. to the spinal cord, because it is capable of conveying doth voluntary and reflex motor impulses, without itself being affected by motor impulses applied to it directly. 

KINETIC:  Moving or causing motion; motory; active, as opposed to latent. Kinetic energy. See Energy, n. 4. 

KINETICS:  See Dynamics. 

KINETOGENESIS:  An instrument for producing curves by the combination of circular movements; -- called also kinescope. 

KINETOPHONE:  A machine combining a kinetoscope and a phonograph synchronized so as to reproduce a scene and its accompanying sounds. 

KINETOSCOPE:  A machine, for the production of animated pictures, in which a film carrying successive instantaneous views of a moving scene travels uniformly through the field of a magnifying glass. The observer sees each picture, momentarily, through a slit in a revolving disk, and these glimpses, blended by persistence of vision, give the impression of continuous motion. 

KING:  A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones or metal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood, and struck with a hammer. 

KING:  The title of two historical books in the Old Testament.  Note: King is often used adjectively, or in combination, to denote preëminence or superiority in some particular; as, kingbird; king crow; king vulture. Apostolic king.See Apostolic.  -- King-at-arms, or King-of-arms, the chief heraldic officer of a country. In England the king-at-arms was formerly of great authority. His business is to direct the heralds, preside at their chapters, and have the jurisdiction of armory. There are three principal kings-at- arms, viz., Garter, Clarencieux, and Norroy. The latter (literally north roy or north king) officiates north of the Trent.  -- King auk (Zoöl.), the little auk or sea dove.  -- King bird of paradise. (Zoöl.), See Bird of paradise.  -- King card, in whist, the best unplayed card of each suit; thus, if the ace and king of a suit have been played, the queen is the king card of the suit.  -- King Cole , a legendary king of Britain, who is said to have reigned in the third century.  -- King conch (Zoöl.), a large and handsome univalve shell (Cassis cameo), found in the West Indies. It is used for making cameos. See Helmet shell, under Helmet.  -- King Cotton, a popular personification of the great staple production of the southern United States.  -- King crab. (Zoöl.) (a) The limulus or horseshoe crab. See Limulus. (b) The large European spider crab or thornback (Maia sguinado).  -- King crow. (Zoöl.) (a) A black drongo shrike (Buchanga atra) of India; -- so called because, while breeding, they attack and drive away hawks, crows, and other large birds. (b) The Dicrurus macrocercus of India, a crested bird with a long, forked tail. Its color is black, with green and blue reflections. Called also devil bird.  -- King duck (Zoöl.), a large and handsome eider duck (Somateria spectabilis), inhabiting the arctic regions of both continents.  -- King eagle (Zoöl.), an eagle (Aquila heliaca) found in Asia and Southeastern Europe. It is about as large as the golden eagle. Some writers believe it to be the imperial eagle of Rome.  -- King hake (Zoöl.), an American hake (Phycis regius), fond in deep water along the Atlantic coast.  -- King monkey (Zoöl.), an African monkey(Colobus polycomus), inhabiting Sierra Leone.  -- King mullet (Zoöl.), a West Indian red mullet (Upeneus maculatus); -- so called on account of its great beauty. Called also goldfish.  -- King of terrors, death.  -- King parrakeet (Zoöl.), a handsome Australian parrakeet (Platycercys scapulatus), often kept in a cage. Its prevailing color is bright red, with the back and wings bright green, the rump blue, and tail black.  -- King penguin (Zoöl.), any large species of penguin of the genus Aptenodytes; esp., A. longirostris, of the Falkland Islands and Kerguelen Land, and A. Patagonica , of Patagonia.  -- King rail (Zoöl.), a small American rail (Rallus elegans), living in fresh-water marshes. The upper parts are fulvous brown, striped with black; the breast is deep cinnamon color.  -- King salmon (Zoöl.), the quinnat. See Quinnat.  -- King's, or Queen's, counsel (Eng. Law), barristers learned in the law, who have been called within the bar, and selected to be the king's or gueen's counsel. They answer in some measure to the advocates of the revenue (advocati fisci) among the Romans. They can not be employed against the crown without special license. Wharton's Law Dict.  -- King's cushion, a temporary seat made by two persons crossing their hands. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  -- The king's English, correct or current language of good speakers; pure English. Shak.  -- King's or Queen's, evidence, testimony in favor of the Crown by a witness who confesses his guilt as an accomplice. See under Evidence. [Eng.] -- King's evil, scrofula; -- so called because formerly supposed to be healed by the touch of a king.  -- King snake (Zoöl.), a large, nearly black, harmless snake (Ophiobolus getulus) of the Southern United States; -- so called because it kills and eats other kinds of snakes, including even the rattlesnake.  -- King's spear (Bot.), the white asphodel (Asphodelus albus).  -- King's yellow, a yellow pigment, consisting essentially of sulphide and oxide of arsenic; -- called also yellow orpiment.  -- King tody (Zoöl.), a small fly-catching bird (Eurylaimus serilophus) of tropical America. The head is adorned with a large, spreading, fan-shaped crest, which is bright red, edged with black.  -- King vulture (Zoöl.), a large species of vulture (Sarcorhamphus papa), ranging from Mexico to Paraguay, The general color is white. The wings and tail are black, and the naked carunculated head and the neck are briliantly colored with scarlet, yellow, orange, and blue. So called because it drives away other vultures while feeding.  -- King wood, a wood from Brazil, called also violet wood, beautifully streaked in violet tints, used in turning and small cabinetwork. The tree is probably a species of Dalbergia. See Jacaranda. 

KING:  To supply with a king; to make a king of; to raise to royalty. [R.] Shak. Those traitorous captains of Israel who kinged themselves by slaying their masters and reigning in their stead. South. 

KINGBOLT:  A vertical iron bolt, by which the forward axle and wheels of a vehicle or the trucks of a railroad car are connected with the other parts.  KING CHARLES SPANIEL King Charles span"iel. (Zoöl.)  A variety of small pet dogs, having, drooping ears, a high, dome-shaped forehead, pug nose, large, prominent eyes, and long, wavy hair. The color is usually black and tan. 

KINGCRAFT:  The craft of kings; the art of governing as a sovereign; royal policy. Prescott. 

KINGCUP:  The common buttercup. 

KINGDOMED:  Having a kingdom or the dignity of a king; like a kingdom. [R.] "Twixt his mental and his active parts, Kingdom'd Achilles in commotion rages And batters down himself. Shak. 

KINGFISHER:  Any one of numerous species of birds constituting the family Alcedinidæ. Most of them feed upon fishes which they capture by diving and seizing then with the beak; others feed only upon reptiles, insects, etc. About one hundred and fifty species are known. They are found in nearly all parts of the world, but are particularly abundant in the East Indies.  Note: The belted king-fisher of the United States (Ceryle alcyon) feeds upon fishes. It is slate-blue above, with a white belly and breast, and a broad white ring around the neck. A dark band crosses the breast. The common European species (Alcedo ispida), which is much smaller and brighter colored, is also a fisher. See Alcedo. The wood kingfishers (Halcyones), which inhabit forests, especially in Africa, feed largely upon insects, but also eat reptiles, snails, and small Crustacea, as well as fishes. The giant kingfisher of Australia feeds largely upon lizards and insects. See Laughing jackass, under Laughing. 

KINGHOOD:  The state of being a king; the attributes of a king; kingship. Gower. 

KINGLESS:  Having no king. F. Lieber. 

KINGLET:  Any one of several species of small singing birds of the genus Regulus and family Sylviidæ.  Note: The golden-crowned kinglet (Regulus satrapa), and the rubycrowned kinglet (R. calendula), are the most common American species. The common English kinglet (R. cristatus) is also called golden-crested wren, moonie, and marigold finch. The kinglets are often popularly called wrens, both in America and England. 

KINGLIHOOD:  King-liness. Tennyson. 

KINGLINESS:  The state or quality of being kingly. 

KINGLING:  Same as Kinglet, 1. Churchill. 

KINGLY:  Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristic of, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king; monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand. "Kingly magnificence." Sir P. Sidney. "A kingly government." Swift. "The kingly couch." Shak. The kingliest kings are crowned with thorn. G. Massey. Leave kingly backs to cope with kingly cares. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Regal; royal; monarchical; imperial; august; sovereign; noble; splendid.  -- Kingly, Regal. Kingly is Anglo-Saxon, and refers especially to the character of a king; regal is Latin, and now relates more to his office. The former is chiefly used of dispositions, feelings, and purposes which are kinglike; as, kingly sentiments; kingly condescension; " a kingly heart for enterprises." Sir P. Sidney. The latter is oftener applied to external state, pomp, etc.; as, regal state, regal title, etc. This distinction is not observed by our early writers, but is gaining ground. 

KINGLY:  In a kingly or kinglike manner. Shak. Low bowed the rest; he, kingly, did but nod. Pore.  Note: Although this citation, one from Paradise Lost, and one from Shakespeare's ll4th Sonnet are given by lexicographers as examples of adverbial use, it is by no means clear that the word is not an adjective in each instance.  KING-POST King"-post`, n. (Carp.)  A member of a common form of truss, as a roof truss. It is strictly a tie, intended to prevent the sagging of the tiebeam in the middle. If there are struts, supporting the main rafters, they often bear upon the foot of the king-post. Called also crown-post.  KING'S BENCH King's Bench. (Law)  Formerly, the highest court of common law in England; -- so called because the king used to sit there in person. It consisted of a chief justice and four puisne, or junior, justices. During the reign of a queen it was called the Queen's Bench. Its jurisdiction was transferred by the judicature acts of 1873 and 1875 to the high court of justice created by that legislation. 

KINGSHIP:  The state, office, or dignity of a king; royalty. Landor.  KINGSTON; KINGSTONE King"ston, King"stone`, n. (Zoöl.)  The black angel fish. See Angel fish, under Angel.  KINGSTON METAL King"ston met"al  . An alloy of tin, copper, and mercury, sometimes used for the bearings and packings of machinery. McElrath.  KINGSTON VALVE King"ston valve. (Marine Steam Engin.)  A conical valve, opening outward, to close the mouth of a pipe which passes through the side of a vessel below the water line. 

KINGTRUSS:  A truss, framed with a king-post; -- used in roofs, bridges, etc. 

KINIC:  See Quinic. 

KINIT:  A unit of force equal to the force which, acting for one second, will give a pound a velocity of one foot per second; -- proposed by J.D.Everett, an English physicist. 

KINK:  To wind into a kink; to knot or twist spontaneously upon itself, as a rope or thread. 

KINK:  A fit of coughing; also, a convulsive fit of laughter. [Scot.] 

KINKAJOU:  A nocturnal carnivorous mammal (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) of South America, about as large as a full-grown cat. It has a prehensile tail and lives in trees. It is the only representative of a distinct family (Cercoleptidæ) allied to the raccoons. Called also potto, and honey bear. 

KINKHAUST:  Whooping cough. [Obs.or Prov. Eng.] 

KINKLE:  Same as 3d Kink. 

KINNIKINIC:  Prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by the Indians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or as a substitute for it. Also, a plant so used, as the osier cornel (Cornus stolonijra), and the bearberry (Arctostaphylus Uva-ursi). [Spelled also kinnickinnick and killikinick.] 

KINO:  The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously in tanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine.  Note: The chief supply is from an East Indian leguminous tree, the Pterocarpus Marsupium. Other sources are the African Pterocarpus erinaceus, the tropical American sea grape (Coccoloba uvifera), and several Australian Eucalypti. See Botany bay kino, under Botany bay, Gum butea, under Gum, and Eucalyptus. 

KINOLOGY:  That branch of physics which treats of the laws of motion, or of moving bodies. 

KINONE:  See Quinone. 

KINOYL:  See Quinoyl. 

KINREDE:  Kindred. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KINSFOLK:  Relatives; kindred; kin; persons of the same family or closely or closely related families. They sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. Luke ii. 44. 

KINSHIP:  Family relationship. 

KINSMAN:  A man of the same race or family; one related by blood. 

KINSMANSHIP:  Kinship. Thackeray. 

KINSWOMAN:  A female relative. Shak. 

KINTLIDGE:  See Kentledge. 

KIOSK:  A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars. 

KIOWAYS:  A tribe of Indians distantly related to the Shoshones. They formerly inhabited the region about the head waters of the North Platte. 

KIP:  The hide of a young or small beef creature, or leather made from it; kipskin. Kip leather. See Kipskin. 

KIPE:  An osier basket used for catching fish. [Prov. Eng.] 

KIPPER:  A salmon after spawning.  2. A salmon split open, salted, and dried or smoked; -- so called because salmon after spawning were usually so cured, not being good when fresh. [Scot.] Kipper time, the season in which fishing for salmon is forbidden. [Eng. & Scot.] 

KIPPER:  To cure, by splitting, salting, and smoking. "Kippered salmon." Dickens. 

KIPPER:  Amorous; also, lively; light-footed; nimble; gay; sprightly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

KIPPERNUT:  A name given to earthnuts of several kinds. 

KIPSKIN:  Leather prepared from the skin of young or small cattle, intermediate in grade between calfskin and cowhide. 

KIRK:  A church or the church, in the various senses of the word; esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformed churches, or from the Roman Catholic Church. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

KIRKED:  Turned upward; bent. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

KIRKYARD:  A churchyard. [Scot.] 

KIRMESS:  In Europe, particularly in Belgium and Holland, and outdoor festival and fair; in the United States, generally an indoor entertainment and fair combined. 

KIRSCHWASSER:  An alcoholic liquor, obtained by distilling the fermented juice of the small black cherry. 

KIRSOME:  Christian; christened. [Obs.] I am a true kirsome woman. Beau. & Fl. 

KIRTLE:  A garment varying in form and use at different times, and worn doth by men and women. Wearing her Norman car, and her kirtle of blue. Longfellow.  Note: The term is still retained in the provinces, in the sense of " an outer petticoat." Halliwell. 

KIRTLED:  Wearing a kirtle. Byron. 

KIRUMBO:  A bird of Madagascar (Leptosomus discolor), the only living type of a family allied to the rollers. It has a pair of loral plumes. The male is glossy green above, with metallic reflections; the female is spotted with brown and black. 

KISH:  A workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally in iron smelting. 

KISMET:  Destiny; fate. [Written also kismat.] [Oriental] 

KISSER:  One who kisses. Beau. & Fl.  KISSING BUG Kiss"ing bug`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of blood-sucking, venomous Hemiptera that sometimes bite the lip or other parts of the human body, causing painful sores, as the cone-nose (Conorhinus sanguisuga). [U. S.] 

KISSINGCRUST:  The portion of the upper crust of a loaf which has touched another loaf in baking. Lamb. A massy fragment from the rich kissingcrust that hangs like a fretted cornice from the upper half of the loaf. W. Howitt.  KISSING STRINGS Kiss"ing strings`.  Cap or bonnet strings made long to tie under the chin.  One of her ladyship's kissing strings, once pink and fluttering and now faded and soiled. Pall Mall Mag. 

KIST:  A chest; hence, a coffin. [Scot. & Prov. End.] Jamieson. Halliwell. 

KIST:  A stated payment, especially a payment of rent for land; hence, the time for such payment. [India] 

KISTVAEN:  A Celtic monument, commonly known as a dolmen. 

KIT:  To cut. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KIT:  A kitten. Kit fox (Zoöl.), a small burrowing fox (Vulpes velox), inhabiting the region of the Rocky Mountains. It is brownish gray, reddish on the breast and flanks, and white below. Called also swift fox. 

KIT:  A small violin. "A dancing master's kit." Grew. Prince Turveydrop then tinkled the strings of his kit with his fingers, and the young ladies stood up to dance. Dickens. 

KITCAT:  A game played by striking with a stick small piece of wood, called a cat, shaped like two coned united at their bases; tipcat. Cotton. Kitcat roll (Agric.), a roller somewhat in the form of two cones set base to base. [Prov. Eng.] 

KITCHEN:  To furnish food to; to entertain with the fare of the kitchen. [Obs.] Shak. 

KITCHENER:  A kitchen servant; a cook. Carlyle. 

KITCHENETTE:  A room combining a very small kitchen and a pantry, with the kitchen conveniences compactly arranged, sometimes so that they fold up out of sight and allow the kitchen to be made a part of the adjoining room by opening folding doors. 

KITCHENMAID:  A woman employed in the kitchen. Shak.  KITCHEN MIDDENS Kitch"en mid`dens. Etym: [Dan. kjök-kenmöddings kitchen leavings; cf. Scot. midden a dunghill.]  Relics of neolithic man found on the coast of Denmark, consisting of shell mounds, some of which are ten feet high, one thousand feet long, and two hundred feet wide. The name is applied also to similar mounds found on the American coast from Canada to Florida, made by the North American Indians.  KITCHEN-RY Kitch"en-ry, n.  The body of servants employed in the kitchen. [Obs.] Holland. 

KITE:  Any raptorial bird of the subfamily Milvinæ, of which many species are known. They have long wings, adapted for soaring, and usually a forked tail.  Note: The European species are Milvus ictinus and M. govinda; the sacred or Brahmany kite of India is Haliastur Indus; the American fork-tailed kite is the Nauclerus furcatus.  2. Fig. : One who is rapacious. Detested kite, thou liest. Shak.  3. A light frame of wood or other material covered with paper or cloth, for flying in the air at the end of a string.  4. (Naut.)  A lofty sail, carried only when the wind is light.  5. (Geom.)  A quadrilateral, one of whose diagonals is an axis of symmetry. Henrici.  6. Fictitious commercial paper used for raising money or to sustain credit, as a check which represents no deposit in bank, or a bill of exchange not sanctioned by sale of goods; an accommodation check or bill. [Cant]  7. (Zoöl.)  The brill. [Prov. Eng. ] Flying kites. (Naut.) See under Flying.  -- Kite falcon (Zoöl.), an African falcon of the genus Avicida, having some resemblance to a kite. 

KITE:  To raise money by "kites;" as, kiting transactions. See Kite, 6. [Cant] 

KITE:  The belly. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]  KITEFLYING; KITEFLIER Kite"fly`ing, n.  A mode of raising money, or sustaining one's credit, by the use of paper which is merely nominal; -- called also kiting.  -- Kite"fli`er, n.  See Kite, n., 6. [Cant] McElrath. Thackeray. 

KITH:  Acquaintance; kindred. And my near kith for sore me shend. W. Browne. The sage of his kith and the hamlet. Longfellow. Kith and kin, kindred more or less remote. 

KITHARA:  See Cithara. 

KITHE:  See Kythe. Chaucer. 

KITISH:  Like or relating to a kite. 

KITLING:  A young kitten; a whelp. [Obs. or Scot.] B. Jonson. 

KITTE:  of Kit to cut. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KITTEL:  See Kittle, v. t. 

KITTEN:  A young cat. 

KITTEN:  To bring forth young, as a cat; to bring forth, as kittens. Shak. H. Spencer. 

KITTENISH:  Resembling a kitten; playful; as, a kittenish disposition. Richardson. 

KITTIWAKE:  A northern gull (Rissa tridactyla), inhabiting the coasts of Europe and America. It is white, with black tips to the wings, and has but three toes. 

KITTLE:  To bring forth young, as a cat; to kitten; to litter. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

KITTLE:  To tickle. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] [Written also kittel.] Halliwell. Jamieson. 

KITTLE:  Ticklish; not easily managed; troublesome; difficult; variable. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. Sir W. Scott. 

KITTLISH:  Ticklish; kittle. Sir W. Scott. 

KITTYSOL:  The Chinese paper parasol. 

KIVA:  A large chamber built under, or in, the houses of a Pueblo village, used as an assembly room in religious rites or as a men's dormitory. It is commonly lighted and entered from an opening in the roof. 

KIVE:  A mash vat. See Keeve. [Obs.] 

KIVER:  To cover.  -- n.  A cover. [Disused except in illiterate speech.]  KIVIKIVI; KIWIKIWI Ki`vi*ki"vi, Ki`wi*ki"wi, n.; pl. Kivikivies (Kiwikiwies (. (Zoöl.)  Any species of Apteryx, esp. A. australis; -- so called in imitation of its notes. Called also kiwi. See Apteryx.  KJOEKKEN MOEDDINGS Kjoek"ken moed`dings. Etym: [Dan.]  See Kitchen middens. 

KLAMATHS:  A collective name for the Indians of several tribes formerly living along the Klamath river, in California and Oregon, but now restricted to a reservation at Klamath Lake; -- called also Clamets and Hamati. 

KLEENEBOC:  (Zoöl.) An antelope (Cerphalopus pygmæus), found in South Africa. It is of very small size, being but one foot high at shoulder. It is remarkable for its activity, and for its mild and timid disposition. Called also guevi, and pygmy antelope. 

KLEPTOMANIA:  A propensity to steal, claimed to be irresistible. This does not constitute legal irresponsibility. Wharton. 

KLEPTOMANIAC:  A person affected with kleptomania. 

KLICK:  See Click. 

KLICKET:  A small postern or gate in a palisade, for the passage of sallying parties. [Written also klinket.] 

KLINKSTONE:  See Clinkstone. 

KLINOMETER:  See Clinometer.  KLIPDAS; KLIPDACHS Klip"das, Klip"dachs`, n. Etym: [D. klip cliff + das badger, akin to G. dachs.] (Zoöl.)  A small mammal (Hyrax Capensis), found in South Africa. It is of about the size of a rabbit, and closely resembles the daman. Called also rock rabbit. 

KLIPFISH:  Dried cod, exported from Norway. [Written also clipfish.] 

KLIPSPRINGER:  A small, graceful South African antelope (Nanotragus oreotragus), which, like the chamois, springs from one crag to another with great agility; -- called also kainsi. [Written also klippspringer.] 

KLOOF:  A glen; a ravine closed at its upper end. [South Africa] 

KLOPEMANIA:  See Kleptomania. 

KNABBLE:  To bite or nibble. [Obs.] Horses will knabble at walls, and rats gnaw iron. Sir T. Browne. 

KNACKISH:  Trickish; artful. [Obs.] -- Knack"ish*ness, n. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.  KNACK-KNEED Knack"-kneed`, a.  See Knock-kneed. 

KNACKY:  Having a knack; cunning; crafty; trickish. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 

KNAGGED:  Full of knots; knaggy. 

KNAGGY:  Knotty; rough; figuratively, rough in temper. Fuller.  -- Knag"gi*ness, n. 

KNAP:  A protuberance; a swelling; a knob; a button; hence, rising ground; a summit. See Knob, and Knop. The highest part and knap of the same island. Holland. 

KNAP:  To make a sound of snapping. Wiseman. 

KNAP:  A sharp blow or slap. Halliwell. 

KNAPBOTTLE:  The bladder campion (Silene inflata). 

KNAPPISH:  Snappish; peevish. [Obs.] Grafton. 

KNAPPLE:  To break off with an abrupt, sharp noise; to bite; to nibble. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

KNAPPY:  Having knaps; full of protuberances or humps; knobby. [Obs.] Huloet. 

KNAPSACK:  A case of canvas or leather, for carrying on the back a soldier's necessaries, or the clothing, etc., of a traveler. And each one fills his knapsack or his scrip With some rare thing that on the field is found. Drayton. 

KNAPWEED:  The black centaury (Centaurea nigra); -- so called from the knoblike heads of flowers. Called also bullweed. 

KNAR:  See Gnar. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KNARL:  A knot in wood. See Gnarl. 

KNARLED:  Knotted. See Gnarled. 

KNARRED:  Knotty; gnarled. The knarred and crooked cedar knees. Longfellow. 

KNARRY:  Knotty; gnarled. Chaucer. 

KNAVERY:  Roguish or mischievous tricks. Shak. 

KNAVESHIP:  A small due, in meal, established by usage, which is paid to the under miller. [Scot.] 

KNAVESS:  A knavish woman. Carlyle. 

KNAVISHNESS:  The quality or state of being knavish; knavery; dishonesty. 

KNAW:  See Gnaw. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

KNAWEL:  A low, spreading weed (Scleranthus annuus), common in sandy soil. 

KNEADABLE:  That may be kneaded; capable of being worked into a mass. 

KNEADER:  One who kneads. 

KNEADINGLY:  In the manner of one kneading. 

KNEBELITE:  A mineral of a gray, red, brown, or green color, and glistening luster. It is a silicate of iron and manganese. 

KNECK:  The twisting of a rope or cable, as it is running out. [Eng.] 

KNEE:  A piece of timber or metal formed with an angle somewhat in the shape of the human knee when bent.  4. A bending of the knee, as in respect or courtesy. Give them title, knee, and approbation. Shak. Knee breeches. See under Breeches.  -- Knee holly, Knee holm (Bot.), butcher's broom.  -- Knee jerk (Physiol.) a jerk or kick produced by a blow or sudden strain upon the patellar tendon of the knee, which causes a sudden contraction of the quadriceps muscle; one of the so-called tendon reflexes.  -- Knee joint. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Knee timber, timber with knees or angles in it.  -- Knee tribute, or Knee worship, tribute paid by kneeling; worship by genuflection. [Obs.] "Knee tribute yet unpaid." Milton. 

KNEE:  To supplicate by kneeling. [Obs.] Fall down, and knee The way into his mercy. Shak 

KNEEBRUSH:  A tuft or brush of hair on the knees of some species of antelopes and other animals; -- chiefly used in the plural.  2. (Zoöl.)  A thick mass or collection of hairs on the legs of bees, by aid of which they carry the collected pollen to the hive or nest; -- usually in the plural. 

KNEECAP:  The kneepan.  2. A cap or protection for the knee.  KNEE-CROOKING Knee"-crook`ing, a.  Obsequious; fawning; cringing. "Knee-crooking knave." Shak. 

KNEED:  Geniculated; forming an obtuse angle at the joints, like the knee when a little bent; as, kneed grass.  KNEE-DEEP Knee"-deep`, a.  1. Rising to the knees; knee-high; as, water or snow knee-deep. Grass knee-deep within a month. Milton.  2. Sunk to the knees; as, men knee-deep in water. Where knee-deep the trees were standing. Longfellow.  KNEE-HIGH Knee"-high`, a.  Rising or reaching upward to the knees; as, the water is knee- high.  KNEE JERK Knee jerk. (Physiol.)  A jerk or kick produced by a blow or sudden strain upon the patellar tendon of the knee, which causes a sudden contraction of the quadriceps muscle. 

KNEEJOINT:  A toggle joint; -- so called because consisting of two pieces jointed to each other end to end, making an angle like the knee when bent. 

KNEEJOINTED:  Geniculate; kneed. See Kneed, a., 2. 

KNEEL:  To bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimes with down. And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. Acts vii. 60. As soon as you are dressed, kneel and say the Lord's Prayer. Jer. Taylor. 

KNEELER:  A name given to certain catechumens and penitents who were permitted to join only in parts of church worship. 

KNEELINGLY:  In a kneeling position. 

KNEEPAN:  A roundish, flattened, sesamoid bone in the tendon in front of the knee joint; the patella; the kneecap. 

KNEEPIECE:  A piece shaped like a knee; as, the kneepieces or ears of a boat.  KNEIPPISM; KNEIPP'S CURE; KNEIPP CURE Kneipp"ism, n. Also Kneipp's, or Kneipp, cure.  Treatment of disease by forms of hydrotherapy, as walking barefoot in the morning dew, baths, wet compresses, cold affusions, etc.; -- so called from its originator, Sebastian Kneipp (1821-97), a German priest. 

KNELL:  The stoke of a bell tolled at a funeral or at the death of a person; a death signal; a passing bell; hence, figuratively, a warning of, or a sound indicating, the passing away of anything. The dead man's knell Is there scarce asked for who. Shak. The curfew tolls the knell of parting day. Gray. 

KNELL:  To sound as a knell; especially, to toll at a death or funeral; hence, to sound as a warning or evil omen. Not worth a blessing nor a bell to knell for thee. Beau. & Fl. Yet all that poets sing, and grief hath known, Of hopes laid waste, knells in that word, "alone". Ld. Lytton. 

KNELL:  To summon, as by a knell. Each matin bell, the baron saith, Knells us back to a world of death. Coleridge. 

KNELT:  of Kneel. 

KNEW:  of Know. 

KNICKER:  A small ball of clay, baked hard and oiled, used as a marble by boys in playing. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.] Halliwell. Bartlett. 

KNICKERBOCKER:  A linsey-woolsey fabric having a rough knotted surface on the right side; used for women's dresses. 

KNICKERBOCKERS:  The name for a style of short breeches; smallclothes. 

KNICKKNACK:  A trifle or toy; a bawble; a gewgaw. 

KNICKKNACKATORY:  A collection of knickknacks. Richardson. 

KNICKKNACKERY:  Knickknacks. 

KNIFE:  To prune with the knife.  2. To cut or stab with a knife. [Low] 

KNIFEBOARD:  A board on which knives are cleaned or polished.  KNIFEEDGE; KNIFE-EDGE Knife"*edge`, n. (Mech.)  A piece of steel sharpened to an acute edge or angle, and resting on a smooth surface, serving as the axis of motion of a pendulum, scale beam, or other piece required to oscillate with the least possible friction. Knife-edge file. See Illust. of File.  KNIFE SWITCH Knife switch. (Elec.)  A switch consisting of one or more knifelike pieces hinged at one end and making contact near the other with flat gripping springs. 

KNIGHT:  To dub or create (one) a knight; -- done in England by the sovereign only, who taps the kneeling candidate with a sword, saying: Rise, Sir ---. A soldier, by the honor-giving hand Of Cknighted in the field. Shak. 

KNIGHTAGE:  To body of knights, taken collectively.  KNIGHT BACHELOR Knight" bach"e*lor; pl. Knights bachelors (.  A knight of the most ancient, but lowest, order of English knights, and not a member of any order of chivalry. See Bachelor, 4.  KNIGHT BANNERET Knight" ban"ner*et; pl. Knights bannerets.  A knight who carried a banner, who possessed fiefs to a greater amount than the knight bachelor, and who was obliged to serve in war with a greater number of attendants. The dignity was sometimes conferred by the sovereign in person on the field of battle.  KNIGHT BARONET Knight" bar"o-net.  See Baronet.  KNIGHT-ERRANT Knight"-er`rant, n.; pl. Knight-errants, or Knights-errant.  A wandering knight; a knight who traveled in search of adventures, for the purpose of exhibiting military skill, prowess, and generosity.  KNIGHT-ERRANTRY Knight"-er`rant*ry, n.; pl. Knight-errantries (.  The character or actions of wandering knights; the practice of wandering in quest of adventures; chivalry; a quixotic or romantic adventure or scheme. The rigid guardian [i. e., conscience] of a blameless heart Is weak with rank knight-erratries o'errun. Young.  KNIGHT-ER-RATIC Knight"-er-rat"ic, a.  Pertaining to a knight-errant or to knight-errantry. [R.] Quart. Rev. 

KNIGHTHEAD:  A bollard timber. See under Bollard. 

KNIGHTLESS:  Unbecoming a knight. [Obs.] "Knightless guile." Spenser. 

KNIGHTLINESS:  The character or bearing suitable for a knight; chivalry. Spenser. 

KNIGHTLY:  Of or pertaining to a knight; becoming a knight; chivalrous; as, a knightly combat; a knightly spirit. For knightly jousts and fierce encounters fit. Spenser. [Excuses] full knightly without scorn. Tennyson. 

KNIGHTLY:  In a manner becoming a knight. And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms. Shak.  KNIGHT MARSHAL Knight" mar"shal. (Eng. Law)  An officer in the household of the British sovereign, who has cognizance of transgressions within the royal household and verge, and of contracts made there, a member of the household being one of the parties. Wharton.  KNIGHT SERVICE Knight" serv"ice. (Eng. Feud. Law)  A tenure of lands held by knights on condition of performing military service. See Chivalry, n., 4.  KNIGHT SERVICE; KNIGHT'S SERVICE Knight service. Also Knight's service.  1.  (Feud. Law) The military service by rendering which a knight held his lands; also, the tenure of lands held on condition of performing military service.  By far the greater part of England [in the 13th century] is held of the king by knight's service. . . . In order to understand this tenure we must form the conception of a unit of military service. That unit seems to be the service of one knight or fully armed horseman (servitium unius militis) to be done to the king in his army for forty days in the year, if it be called for. . . . The limit of forty days seems to have existed rather in theory than practice. Pollock & Mait.  2.  Service such as a knight can or should render; hence, good or valuable service.  KNIGHT'S FEE Knight's fee. (Feudal Law)  The fee of a knight; specif., the amount of land the holding of which imposed the obligation of knight service, being sometimes a hide or less, sometimes six or more hides.  KNIGHT TEMPLAR Knight" Tem"plar; pl. Knights Templars (.  See Commandery, n., 3, and also Templar, n., 1 and 3. 

KNIT:  Union knitting; texture. Shak. 

KNITBACK:  The plant comfrey; -- so called from its use as a restorative. Dr. Prier.  KNITCH; KNITCHET Knitch, Knitch"et, n. Etym: [Cf. Knit.]  A number of things tied or knit together; a bundle; a fagot. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. When they [stems of asphodel] be dried, they ought to be made up into knitchets, or handfuls. Holland. 

KNITS:  Small particles of ore. Raymond. 

KNITSTER:  A woman who knits. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

KNITTER:  One who, or that which, knits, joins, or unites; a knitting machine. Shak. 

KNITTLE:  See Nettles. 

KNIVES:  of Knife. See Knife. 

KNOB:  See Knop. Knob latch, a latch which can be operated by turning a knob, without using a key. 

KNOB:  To grow into knobs or bunches; to become knobbed. [Obs.] Drant. 

KNOBBED:  Containing knobs; full of knobs; ending in a nob. See Illust of Antenna. The horns of a roe deer of Greenland are pointed at the top, and knobbed or tuberous at the bottom. Grew. 

KNOBBER:  See Knobbler. 

KNOBBING:  Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections. 

KNOBBLER:  The hart in its second year; a young deer. [Written also knobber.] Halliwell. He has hallooed the hounds upon a velvet-headed knobbler. Sir W. Scott.  KNOBBLING FIRE Knob"bling fire  . A bloomery fire. See Bloomery. 

KNOBKERRIE:  A short club with a knobbed end used as a missile weapon by Kafir and other native tribes of South Africa. 

KNOBSTICK:  One who refuses to join, or withdraws from, a trades union. [Cant, Eng.] 

KNOCKDOWN:  A felling by a knock, as of a combatant, or of an animal. 

KNOCKDOWN:  Of force sufficient to fell or completely overthrow; as, a knockdown blow; a knockdown argument. [Colloq.] 

KNOCKER:  One who, or that which, knocks; specifically, an instrument, or kind of hammer, fastened to a door, to be used in seeking for admittance. Shut, shut the door, good John ! fatigued, knocker; say I'm sick, I'm dead. Pope. 

KNOCKING:  A beating; a rap; a series of raps. The . . . repeated knockings of the head upon the ground by the Chinese worshiper. H. Spencer. 

KNOCKINGS:  Large lumps picked out of the sieve, in dressing ore.  KNOCK-KNEE Knock"-knee`, n. (Med.)  A condition in which the knees are bent in so as to touch each other in walking; inknee.  KNOCK-KNEED Knock"-kneed`, a.  Having the legs bent inward so that the knees touch in walking. [Written also knack-kneed.]  KNOCK-OFF Knock"-off`, a.  That knocks off; of or pertaining to knocking off.  KNOCK-OFF Knock"-off`, n.  Act or place of knocking off; that which knocks off; specif. (Mach.),  a cam or the like for disconnecting something, as a device in a knitting machine to remove loops from the needles.  KNOCK-OUT Knock"-out`, n.  Act of knocking out, or state of being knocked out.  KNOCK-OUT Knock"-out`, a.  That knocks out; characterized by knocking out; as, a knock-out blow; a knock-out key for knocking out a drill from a collet.  KNOCK-OUT DROPS Knock-out drops.  Drops of some drug put in one's drink to stupefy him for purpose of robbery, etc. [Slang, U. S.] 

KNOCKSTONE:  A block upon which ore is broken up. 

KNOLL:  A little round hill; a mound; a small elevation of earth; the top or crown of a hill. On knoll or hillock rears his crest, Lonely and huge, the giant oak. Sir W. Scott. 

KNOLL:  To ring, as a bell; to strike a knell upon; to toll; to proclaim, or summon, by ringing. "Knolled to church." Shak. Heavy clocks knolling the drowsy hours. Tennyson. 

KNOLL:  To sound, as a bell; to knell. Shak. For a departed being's soul The death hymn peals, and the hollow bells knoll. Byron. 

KNOLL:  The tolling of a bell; a knell. [R.] Byron. 

KNOLLER:  One who tolls a bell. [Obs.] Sherwood. 

KNOP:  Any boldly projecting sculptured ornament; esp., the ornamental termination of a pinnacle, and then synonymous with finial; -- called also knob, and knosp. Knop sedge (Bot.), the bur reed (Sparganium); - - so called from its globular clusters of seed vessels. Prior. 

KNOPPED:  Having knops or knobs; fastened as with buttons. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

KNOPPERN:  A kind of gall produced by a gallfly on the cup of an acorn, -- used in tanning and dyeing. 

KNOPWEED:  Same as Knapweed. 

KNOR:  See Knur. [Obs.] 

KNOSP:  Same as Knop,2. Milman. 

KNOT:  See Node.  11. (Naut.) (a) A division of the log line, serving to measure the rate of the vessel's motion. Each knot on the line bears the same proportion to a mile that thirty seconds do to an hour. The number of knots which run off from the reel in half a minute, therefore, shows the number of miles the vessel sails in an hour. Hence: (b) A nautical mile, or 6080.27 feet; as, when a ship goes eight miles an hour, her speed is said to be eight knots.  12. A kind of epaulet. See Shoulder knot.  13. (Zoöl.)  A sandpiper (Tringa canutus), found in the northern parts of all the continents, in summer. It is grayish or ashy above, with the rump and upper tail coverts white, barred with dusky. The lower parts are pale brown, with the flanks and under tail coverts white. When fat it is prized by epicures. Called also dunne.  Note: The name is said to be derived from King Canute, this bird being a favorite article of food with him. The knot that called was Canutus' bird of old, Of that great king of Danes his name that still doth hold, His appetite to please that far and near was sought. Drayton. 

KNOTBERRY:  The cloudberry (Rudus Chamæmorus); -- so called from its knotted stems. 

KNOTLESS:  Free from knots; without knots. "Silver firs with knotless trunks." Congreve. 

KNOTTED:  Characterized by small, detached points, chiefly composed of mica, less decomposable than the mass of the rock, and forming knots in relief on the weathered surface; as, knotted rocks. Percival.  5. Entangled; puzzling; knotty. [R.] They're catched in knotted lawlike nets. Hudibras. 

KNOTWEED:  See Knot. 

KNOTWORT:  A small, herbaceous, trailing plant, of the genus Illecebrum (I. verticillatum.) 

KNOUT:  A kind of whip for flogging criminals, formerly much used in Russia. The last is a tapering bundle of leather thongs twisted with wire and hardened, so that it mangles the flesh. 

KNOUT:  To punish with the knout Brougham. 

KNOW:  Knee. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KNOWABLE:  That may be known; capable of being discovered, understood, or ascertained. Thus mind and matter, as known or knowable, are only two different series of phenomena or qualities. Sir W. Hamilton. 

KNOWABLENESS:  The state or quality of being knowable. Locke.  KNOW-ALL Know"-all`, n.  One who knows everything; hence, one who makes pretension to great knowledge; a wiseacre; -- usually ironical. [Colloq. or R.] 

KNOWER:  One who knows. Shak. 

KNOWING:  Knowledge; hence, experience. " In my knowing." Shak. This sore night Hath trifled former knowings. Shak. 

KNOWINGNESS:  The state or quality of being knowing or intelligent; shrewdness; skillfulness. 

KNOWLECHE:  See Knowl, edge. We consider and knowleche that we have offended. Chaucer. 

KNOWLECHING:  Knowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KNOWLEDGE:  To acknowledge. [Obs.] "Sinners which knowledge their sins." Tyndale. 

KNOWN:  of Know.  KNOW-NOTHING Know"-noth`ing, n.  A member of a secret political organization in the United States, the chief objects of which were the proscription of foreigners by the repeal of the naturalization laws, and the exclusive choice of native Americans for office.  Note: The party originated in 1853, and existed for about three years. The members of it were called Know-nothings, because they replied "I don't know," to any questions asked them in reference to the party.  KNOW-NOTHINGISM Know"-noth`ing*ism, n.  The doctrines, principles, or practices, of the Know-nothings. 

KNUBS:  Waste silk formed in winding off the threads from a cocoon. 

KNUCKLE:  The joining pars of a hinge through which the pin or rivet passes; a knuckle joint.  5. (Shipbuilding)  A convex portion of a vessel's figure where a sudden change of shape occurs, as in a canal boat, where a nearly vertical side joins a nearly flat bottom.  6. A contrivance, usually of brass or iron, and furnished with points, worn to protect the hand, to add force to a blow, and to disfigure the person struck; as, brass knuckles; -- called also knuckle duster. [Slang.] Knuckle joint (Mach.), a hinge joint, in which a projection with an eye, on one piece, enters a jaw between two corresponding projections with eyes, on another piece, and is retained by a pin which passes through the eyes and forms the pivot.  -- Knuckle of veal (Cookery), the lower part of a leg of veal, from the line of the body to the knuckle. 

KNUCKLE:  To yield; to submit; -- used with down, to, or under. To knuckle to. (a) To submit to in a contest; to yield to. [Colloq.] See To knock under, under Knock, v. i. (b) To apply one's self vigorously or earnestly to; as, to knuckle to work. [Colloq.] 

KNUCKLE:  To beat with the knuckles; to pommel. [R.] Horace Smith. 

KNUCKLED:  Jointed. [Obs.] Bacon. 

KNUFF:  A lout; a clown. [Obs.] The country knuffs, Hob, Dick, and Hick, With clubs and clouted shoon. Hayward. 

KNUR:  A knurl. Woodward. 

KNURL:  A contorted knot in wood; a crossgrained protuberance; a nodule; a boss or projection.  2. One who, or that which, is crossgrained. 

KNURL:  To provide with ridges, to assist the grasp, as in the edge of a flat knob, or coin; to mill. 

KNURLY:  Full of knots; hard; tough; hence, capable of enduring or resisting much. 

KNURRY:  Full of knots. [Obs.] Drayton. 

KOAITA:  Same as Coaita. 

KOALA:  A tailless marsupial (Phascolarctos cinereus), found in Australia. The female carries her young on the back of her neck. Called also Australian bear, native bear, and native sloth.  KOB; KOBA Kob, Ko"ba, n. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of African antelopes of the genus Kobus, esp. the species Kobus sing-sing. 

KOBALT:  See Cobalt. 

KOBELLITE:  A blackish gray mineral, a sulphide of antimony, bismuth, and lead. 

KOBOLD:  A kind of domestic spirit in German mythology, corresponding to the Scottish brownie and the English Robin Goodfellow. 

KODAK:  A kind of portable camera. 

KOEL:  Any one of several species of cuckoos of the genus Eudynamys, found in India, the East Indies, and Australia. They deposit their eggs in the nests of other birds. 

KOFF:  A two-masted Dutch vessel. 

KOFTGARI:  Ornamental work produced by inlaying steel with gold, -- a variety of damascening much used in the arts of India.  KOHINOOR; KOHNUR Koh`i*noor", Koh`*nur, n. Etym: [Per. koh-i-n, lit., mountain of light.]  A famous diamond, surrendered to the British crown on the annexation of the Punjab. According to Hindoo legends, it was found in a Golconda mine, and has been the property of various Hindoo and Persian rulers. 

KOHL:  A mixture of soot and other ingredients, used by Egyptian and other Eastern women to darken the edges of the eyelids.  KOHL-RABI Kohl"-ra`bi, n.; pl. Kohl-rabies. Etym: [G. Cf. Cole, Rape the plant.] (Bot.)  A variety of cabbage, in which the edible part is a large, turnip-shaped swelling of the stem, above the surface of the ground. 

KOKAMA:  The gemsbok. 

KOKLASS:  Any pheasant of the genus Pucrasia. The birds of this genus inhabit India and China, and are distinguished by having a long central and two lateral crests on the head. Called also pucras. 

KOKOON:  The gnu.  KOLA; KOLA NUT Ko"la, Kola nut .  Same as Cola, Cola nut. 

KOLARIAN:  An individual of one of the races of aboriginal inhabitants which survive in Hindostan.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to the Kolarians. 

KOLINSKY:  Among furriers, any of several Asiatic minks; esp., Putorius sibiricus, the yellowish brown pelt of which is valued, esp. for the tail, used for making artists' brushes. Trade names for the fur are red sable and Tatar sable.  KOLUSCHAN; KOLUSHAN Ko*lusch"an, Ko*lush"an, a. [From Russ. kalyushka piece of wood (worn in the nether lip).]  Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of North American Indians comprising the Tlinkit tribes of the Alexander Archipelago of southeastern Alaska and adjacent coast lands. Their language bears some affinity to Mexican tongues. 

KOMENIC:  Of or pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from meconic acid. [Written also comenic.] 

KOMTOK:  An African freshwater fish (Protopterus annectens), belonging to the Dipnoi. It can breathe air by means of its lungs, and when waters dry up, it encases itself in a nest of hard mud, where it remains till the rainy season. It is used as food. 

KON:  To know. See Can, and Con. [Obs.] Ye konnen thereon as much as any man. Chaucer. 

KONITE:  See Conite. 

KONSEAL:  A form of capsule for inclosing a dose of medicine that is offensive, caustic, or the like. 

KONZE:  A large African antelope (Alcelaphus Lichtensteini), allied to the hartbeest, but having shorter and flatter horns, and lacking a black patch on the face. 

KOODOO:  A large South African antelope (Strepsiceros kudu). The males have graceful spiral horns, sometimes four feet long. The general color is reddish or grayish brown, with eight or nine white bands on each side, and a pale dorsal stripe. The old males become dark bluish gray, due to the skin showing through the hair. The females are hornless. Called also nellut. [Written also kudu.] 

KOOKOOM:  The oryx or gemsbok. [Written also kookaam.] 

KOOLOKAMBA:  A west African anthropoid ape (Troglodytes koolokamba, or T. Aubryi), allied to the chimpanzee and gorilla, and, in some respects, intermediate between them. 

KOOLSLAA:  See Coleslaw. 

KOORD:  See Kurd. 

KOORDISH:  See Kurdish. 

KOORILIAN:  Same as Kurilian. 

KOP:  Hill; mountain. [South Africa] 

KOPECK:  A small Russian coin. One hundred kopecks make a rouble, worth about sixty cents. [Written also kopek, copec, and copeck.] 

KOPJE:  A hillock; a small kop. [South Africa]   The colloqual Dutch pronunciation as here given is the usual one in South Africa. 

KORAN:  The Scriptures of the Mohammedans, containing the professed revelations to Mohammed; -- called also Alcoran. [Written also Kuran or Quran.] 

KORIN:  The gazelle. 

KORRIGUM:  A West African antelope (Damalis Senegalensis), allied to the sassaby. It is reddish gray, with a black face, and a black stripe on the outside of the legs above the knees. 

KOSHER:  Ceremonially clean, according to Jewish law; --applied to food, esp. to meat of animals slaughtered according to the requirements of Jewish law. Opposed to tref. Hence, designating a shop, store, house, etc., where such food is sold or used. 

KOSHER:  Kosher food; also, a kosher shop. 

KOSHER:  To prepare in conformity with the requirements of the Jewish law, as meat. 

KOSMOS:  See Cosmos. Gladstone. 

KOTOW:  The prostration made by mandarins and others to their superiors, either as homage or worship, by knocking the forehead on the ground. There are degrees in the rite, the highest being expressed by three knockings. [China]kowtow S. W. Williams. 

KOTOW:  To perform the kotow.kowtow 

KOULAN:  A wild horse (Equus, or Asinus, onager) inhabiting the plants of Central Asia; -- called also gour, khur, and onager. [Written also kulan.]  Note: It is sometimes confounded with the dziggetai, to which it is closely related. It is gray in winter, but fulvous in summer. It has a well defined, dark, dorsal stripe, and a short, erect mane. In size, it is intermediate between the horse and ass. 

KOUMISS:  An intoxicating fermented or distilled liquor originally made by the Tartars from mare's or camel's milk. It can be obtained from any kind of milk, and is now largely made in Europe. [Written also koumyss, kumiss, kumish, and kumys.] Koumiss has from time immemorial served the Tartar instead of wine or spirits. J. H. Newman. 

KOUSSO:  An Abyssinian rosaceous tree (Brayera anthelmintica), the flowers of which are used as a vermifuge. [Written also cusso and kosso.] 

KOWTOW:  The same as Kotow. I have salaamed and kowtowed to him. H. James. 

KRA:  A long-tailed ape (Macacus cynomolgus) of India and Sumatra. It is reddish olive, spotted with black, and has a black tail. 

KRAIT:  A very venomous snake of India (Bungarus coeruleus), allied to the cobra. Its upper parts are bluish or brownish black, often with narrow white streaks; the belly is whitish. 

KRAKEN:  A fabulous Scandinavian sea monster, often represented as resembling an island, but sometimes as resembling an immense octopus. To believe all that has been said of the sea serpent or kraken, would be credulity; to reject the possibility of their existence, would be presumption. Goldsmith. Like a kraken huge and black. Longfellow. 

KRAKOWIAK:  A lively Polish dance. See Cracovienne. 

KRAMERIA:  A genus of spreading shrubs with many stems, from one species of which (K. triandra), found in Peru, rhatany root, used as a medicine, is obtained. 

KRAMERIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, Krameria (rhatany); as, krameric acid, usually called ratanhia-tannic acid. 

KRANG:  The carcass of a whale after the blubber has been removed. [Written also crang and kreng.]  KRANGING HOOK Krang"ing hook`. (Whaling)  A hook for holding the blubber while cutting it away. [Written also cranging hook.] 

KREATIC:  See Creatic. 

KREATIN:  See Creatin. 

KREATININ:  See Creatinin. 

KREEL:  See Creel. 

KREMLIN:  The citadel of a town or city; especially, the citadel of Moscow, a large inclosure which contains imperial palaces, cathedrals, churches, an arsenal, etc. [Russia] 

KREMS:  A variety of white lead. See Krems lead, under Lead, n. 

KRENG:  See Krang. 

KREOSOTE:  See Creosote. 

KREUTZER:  A small copper coin formerly used in South Germany; also, a small Austrian copper coin. [Written also kreuzer.] 

KRIEGSSPIEL:  A game of war, played for practice, on maps. Farrow. 

KRIS:  A Malay dagger. See Creese. 

KRISHNA:  The most popular of the Hindoo divinities, usually held to be the eighth incarnation of the god Vishnu. 

KRITARCHY:  The rule of the judges over Israel. Samson, Jephthah, Gideon, and other heroes of the kritarchy. Southey. 

KROKIDOLITE:  See Crocidolite. 

KRONE:  A coin of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, of the value of about twenty-eight cents. See Crown, n., 9. 

KROOMAN:  One of a negro tribe of Liberia and the adjacent coast, whose members are much employed on shipboard. 

KRULLER:  See Cruller.  KRUMMHORN; KRUMHORN Krumm"horn`, Krum"horn`, n. Etym: [G. krummhorn horn.] (Mus.) (a) A reed instrument of music of the cornet kind, now obsolete (see Cornet, 1, a.) (b) A reed stop in the organ; -- sometimes called cremona.  KRUPP GUN Krupp" gun"  . A breech-loading steel cannon manufactured at the works of Friedrich Krupp, at Essen in Prussia. Guns of over eight-inch bore are made up of several concentric cylinders; those of a smaller size are forged solid. Knight. 

KRUPPIZE:  To treat by, or subject to, the Krupp process.  KRUPP PROCESS Krupp process. (Iron Metal.)  (a) A process practiced by Friedrich Krupp,  Essen, Germany, for washing pig iron, differing from the Bell process in using manganese as well as iron oxide, and performed in a Pernot furnace. Called also the Bell-Krupp process.  (b) A process for the manufacture of steel armor plates, invented or practiced by Krupp, the details of which are secret. It is understood to involve the addition of chromium as well as nickel to the metal, and to include a treatment like that of the Harvey process with unknown variations or additions. The product is mentioned by some authors, as improved Harvey, or Harvey-Krupp armor plate. 

KRYOLITE:  See Cryolite. 

KRYPTON:  An inert gaseous element of the argon group, occurring in air to the extent of about one volume in a million. It was discovered by Ramsay and Travers in 1898. Liquefying point, -- 152º C.; symbol, Kr; atomic weight, 83.0. 

KSAR:  See Czar.  KSHATRIYA; KSHATRUYA Ksha"tri*ya, Ksha"tru*ya, n.Etym: [Skr. kshatriya one belonging to the military caste.]  The military caste, the second of the four great Hindoo castes; also, a member of that caste. See Caste. [India] 

KUDA:  The East Indian tapir. See Tapir. 

KUDOS:  Glory; fame; renown; praise. W. H. Russel. 

KUDOS:  To praise; to extol; to glorify. "Kudos'd egregiously." [R.] Southey. 

KUDU:  See Koodoo. 

KUFIC:  See Cufic. 

KUKANG:  The slow lemur. See Lemur. 

KUKLUX:  The name adopted in the southern part of the United States by a secret political organization, active for several years after the close of the Civil War, and having for its aim the repression of the political power of the freedmen; -- called also Kuklux Klan. 

KULAN:  See Koulan. 

KULTURKAMPF:  Lit., culture war; -- a name, originating with Virchow (1821 -- 1902), given to a struggle between the the Roman Catholic Church and the German government, chiefly over the latter's efforts to control educational and ecclesiastical appointments in the interest of the political policy of centralization. The struggle began with the passage by the Prussian Diet in May, 1873, of the so-called May laws, or Falk laws, aiming at the regulation of the clergy. Opposition eventually compelled the government to change its policy, and from 1880 to 1887 laws virtually nullifying the May laws were enacted.  KUMISH; KUMISS Ku"mish, Ku"miss, n.  See Koumiss. 

KUMMEL:  A Russian and German liqueur, consisting of a sweetened spirit flavored with caraway seeds. 

KUMQUAT:  A small tree of the genus Citrus (C. Japonica) growing in China and Japan; also, its small acid, orange-colored fruit used for preserves. 

KUPFERNICKEL:  Copper-nickel; niccolite. See Niccolite. 

KURD:  A native or inhabitant of a mountainous region of Western Asia belonging to the Turkish and Persian monarchies. [Written also Koord.] 

KURDISH:  Of or pertaining to the Kurds. [Written also Koordish.] 

KURILIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Kurile Islands, a chain of islands in the Pacific ocean, extending from the southern extremity of Kamschatka to Yesso.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of the Kurile Islands. [Written also Koorilian.]  KURO-SIWO Ku"ro-Siwo, n. [Jap. kuroshio; kuro black + shio tide.]  See Japan Current, above. 

KURSAAL:  A public hall or room, for the use of visitors at watering places and health resorts in Germany. 

KUSIMANSE:  A carnivorous animal (Crossarchus obscurus) of tropical Africa. It its allied to the civets. Called also kusimansel, and mangue. 

KUSKUS:  See Vetiver. 

KUSSIER:  (Mus.) A Turkish instrument of music, with a hollow body covered with skin, over which five strings are stretched. [Written also kussir.] 

KUTAUSS:  The India civet (Viverra zibetha). 

KUTCH:  The packet of vellum leaves in which the gold is first beaten into thin sheets. 

KUTCH:  See Catechu. 

KY:  Kine. [Scot.] See Kee, Kie, and Kine.  KYABOCA WOOD Ky`a*bo"ca wood`. (Bot.) (a) Amboyna wood. (b) Sandalwood (Santalum album). 

KYACK:  A pack sack to be swung on either side of a packsaddle. [Western U. S.] 

KYANITE:  See Cyanite. 

KYANIZE:  To render (wood) proof against decay by saturating with a solution of corrosive sublimate in open tanks, or under pressure. 

KYANOPHYLL:  Same as Cyanophyll. 

KYAR:  Cocoanut fiber, or the cordage made from it. See Coir. 

KYAW:  A daw. [Scot.] 

KYD:  p. p. of Kythe. 

KYDDE:  imp. of Kythe, to show. [Obs.] Chaucer.  Note: Spenser erroneously uses kydst to mean "knowest." 

KYKE:  To look steadfastly; to gaze. [Obs.] [Written also kike, keke.] This Nicholas sat ever gaping upright, As he had kyked on the newe moon. Chaucer. 

KYLEY:  A variety of the boomerang. 

KYLOES:  The cattle of the Hebrides, or of the Highlands. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

KYMNEL:  See Kimnel. [Obs.] Chapman. 

KYMOGRAPH:  An instrument for measuring, and recording graphically, the pressure of the blood in any of the blood vessels of a living animal; -- called also kymographion. 

KYMOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to a kymograph; as, a kymographic tracing. 

KYMRIC:  See Cymric, a. & n. 

KYMRY:  See Cymry. 

KYNREDE:  Kindred. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

KYNURENIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from the urine of dogs. By decomposition the acid yields a nitrogenous base (called kynurin) and carbonic acid. [Written also cynurenic.] 

KYRIE:  See Kyrie eleison.  KYRIE ELEISON Kyr"i*e e*lei"son. Etym: [Gr. ky`rie 'elei^son .]  1. (R. C. Ch.)  Greek words, meaning "Lord, have mercy upon us," used in the Mass, the breviary offices, the litany of the saints, etc. Addis & Arnold.  2. The name given to the response to the Commandments, in the service of the Church of England and of the Protestant Episcopal Church. 

KYRIELLE:  A litany beginning with the words. "Kyrie eleison." Shipley.  KYRIOLEXY; KYRIOLOGY Kyr"i*o*lex`y, Kyr`i*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. Curiologic.]  The use of literal or simple expressions, as distinguished from the use of figurative or obscure ones. Krauth-Fleming. 

KYRIOLOGICAL:  Serving to denote objects by conventional signs or alphabetical characters; as, the original Greek alphabet of sixteen letters was called kyriologic, because it represented the pure elementary sounds. See Curiologic. [Written also curiologic and kuriologic.]  Note: The term is also applied, as by Warburton, to those Egyptian hieroglyphics, in which a part is put conventionally for the whole, as in depicting a battle by two hands, one holding a shield and the other a bow.  KYTHE; KITHE Kythe, Kithe, v. t. [imp. Kydde, Kidde (kîd"de); p. p. Kythed, Kid; p. pr. & vb. n. Kything.] Etym: [OE. kythen, kithen, cu, to make known, AS. c, fr. c known. Uncouth, Ca to be able, and cf. Kith.]  To make known; to manifest; to show; to declare. [Obs: or Scot.] For gentle hearte kytheth gentilesse. Chaucer. 

KYTHE:  To come into view; to appear. [Scot.] It kythes bright . . . because all is dark around it. Sir W. Scott. 

KYTOMITON:  See Karyomiton. 

KYTOPLASMA:  See Karyoplasma. 

L:  A short right-angled pipe fitting, used in connecting two pipes at right angles. [Written also ell.] 

LAAGER:  A camp, esp. one with an inclosure of travelers' wagons for temporary defense. [South Africa]  Wagons . . . can be readily formed into a laager, a camp, by being drawn into a circle, with the oxen placed inside and so kept safe from the attacks of wild beasts. James Bryce. 

LAAGER:  To form into, or camp in, a laager, or protected camp. 

LAAS:  A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAB:  To prate; to gossip; to babble; to blab. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAB:  A telltale; a prater; a blabber. [Obs.] "I am no lab." Chaucer. 

LABADIST:  A follower of Jean de Labadie, a religious teacher of the 17th century, who left the Roman Catholic Church and taught a kind of mysticism, and the obligation of community of property among Christians.  LABARRAQUE'S SOLUTION La`bar`raque's" so*lu"tion. Etym: [From Labarraque, a Parisian apothecary.] (Med.)  An aqueous solution of hypochlorite of sodium, extensively used as a disinfectant. 

LABARUM:  The standard adopted by the Emperor Constantine after his conversion to Christianity. It is described as a pike bearing a silk banner hanging from a crosspiece, and surmounted by a golden crown. It bore a monogram of the first two letters (CHR) of the name of Christ in its Greek form. Later, the name was given to various modifications of this standard. 

LABDANUM:  See Ladanum. 

LABEFACTION:  The act of labefying or making weak; the state of being weakened; decay; ruin. There is in it such a labefaction of all principles as may be injurious to morality. Johnson. 

LABEFY:  To weaken or impair. [R.] 

LABEL:  A barrulet, or, rarely, a bendlet, with pendants, or points, usually three, especially used as a mark of cadency to distinguish an eldest or only son while his father is still living.  6. A brass rule with sights, formerly used, in connection with a circumferentor, to take altitudes. Knight.  7. (Gothic Arch.)  The name now generally given to the projecting molding by the sides, and over the tops, of openings in mediæval architecture. It always has a Arch. Pub. Soc.  8. In mediæval art, the representation of a band or scroll containing an inscription. Fairholt. 

LABELER:  One who labels. [Written also labeller.] 

LABELLUM:  The lower or apparently anterior petal of an orchidaceous flower, often of a very curious shape.  2. (Zoöl.)  A small appendage beneath the upper lip or labrum of certain insects. 

LABENT:  Slipping; sliding; gliding. [R.] 

LABIA:  See Labium. 

LABIAL:  Furnished with lips; as, a labial organ pipe.  3. (Phonetics) (a) Articulated, as a consonant, mainly by the lips, as b, p, m, w. (b) Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, as oo (food), o (old), etc., and as eu and u in French, and ö, ü in German. See Guide to Pronunciation,  4. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the labium; as, the labial palpi of insects. See Labium. 

LABIAL:  A letter or character representing an articulation or sound formed or uttered chiefly with the lips, as b, p, w.  2. (Mus.)  An organ pipe that is furnished with lips; a flue pipe.  3. (Zoöl.)  One of the scales which border the mouth of a fish or reptile. 

LABIALISM:  The quality of being labial; as, the labialism of an articulation; conversion into a labial, as of a sound which is different in another language. J. Peile. 

LABIALIZATION:  The modification of an articulation by contraction of the lip opening. 

LABIALIZE:  To modify by contraction of the lip opening. 

LABIALLY:  In a labial manner; with, or by means of, the lips. 

LABIATE:  To labialize. Brewer. 

LABIATE:  A plant of the order Labiatæ. 

LABIATED:  Same as Labiate, a. (a).  LABIATIFLORAL; LABIATIFLORAL La`bi*a`ti*flo"ral, La`bi*a`ti*flo"ral, a. Etym: [Labiate + L. flos, floris, flower.] (Bot.)  Having labiate flowers, as the snapdragon. 

LABIDOMETER:  A forceps with a measuring attachment for ascertaining the size of the fetal head. 

LABILE:  Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize. [Obs.] Cheyne. 

LABILITY:  Liability to lapse, err, or apostatize. [Archaic] Coleridge. 

LABIMETER:  See Labidometer. 

LABIODENTAL:  Formed or pronounced by the cooperation of the lips and teeth, as f and v.  -- n.  A labiodental sound or letter. 

LABIONASAL:  Formed by the lips and the nose.  -- n.  A labionasal sound or letter. 

LABIOPLASTY:  A plastic operation for making a new lip, or for replacing a lost tissue of a lip. 

LABIOSE:  Having the appearance of being labiate; -- said of certain polypetalous corollas. 

LABIPALP:  A labial palp. 

LABIPALPUS:  One of the labial palpi of an insect. See Illust. under Labium. 

LABIUM:  The folds of integument at the opening of the vulva.  4. (Zoöl.) (a) The organ of insects which covers the mouth beneath, and serves as an under lip. It consists of the second pair of maxillæ, usually closely united in the middle line, but bearing a pair of palpi in most insects. It often consists of a thin anterior part (ligula or palpiger) and a firmer posterior plate (mentum). (b) Inner margin of the aperture of a shell. 

LABLAB:  an East Indian name for several twining leguminous plants related to the bean, but commonly applied to the hyacinth bean (Delichos Lablab). 

LABOR:  The pitching or tossing of a vessel which results in the straining of timbers and rigging.  7. Etym: [Sp.]  A measure of land in Mexico and Texas, equivalent to an area of 177 Bartlett.  Syn.  -- Work; toil; drudgery; task; exertion; effort; industry; painstaking. See Toll. 

LABOR:  To pitch or roll heavily, as a ship in a turbulent sea. Totten. 

LABORANT:  A chemist. [Obs.] Boyle. 

LABORATORY:  The workroom of a chemist; also, a place devoted to experiments in any branch of natural science; as, a chemical, physical, or biological laboratory. Hence, by extension, a place where something is prepared, or some operation is performed; as, the liver is the laboratory of the bile.  LABOR DAY Labor Day.  In most of the States and Territories of the United States, a day, usually the first Monday of September, set aside as a legal holiday, in honor of, or in the interest of, workingmen as a class. Also, a similar holiday in Canada, Australia, etc. 

LABORED:  Bearing marks of labor and effort; elaborately wrought; not easy or natural; as, labored poetry; a labored style. 

LABOREDLY:  In a labored manner; with labor. 

LABORER:  One who labors in a toilsome occupation; a person who does work that requires strength rather than skill, as distinguished from that of an artisan. 

LABORLESS:  Not involving labor; not laborious; easy. 

LABOROUS:  Laborious. [Obs.] Wyatt.  -- La"bor*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.  LABOR-SAVING La"bor-sav`ing, a.  Saving labor; adapted to supersede or diminish the labor of men; as, laborsaving machinery. 

LABORSOME:  Likely or inclined to roll or pitch, as a ship in a heavy sea; having a tendency to labor. 

LABRADOR:  A region of British America on the Atlantic coast, north of Newfoundland. Labrador duck (Zoöl.), a sea duck (Camtolaimus Labradorius) allied to the eider ducks. It was formerly common on the coast of New England, but is now supposed to be extinct, no specimens having been reported since 1878.  -- Labrador feldspar. See Labradorite.  -- Labrador tea (Bot.), a name of two low, evergreen shrubs of the genus Ledum (L. palustre and L. latifolium), found in Northern Europe and America. They are used as tea in British America, and in Scandinavia as a substitute for hops. 

LABRADORITE:  A kind of feldspar commonly showing a beautiful play of colors, and hence much used for ornamental purposes. The finest specimens come from Labrador. See Feldspar. 

LABRAS:  Lips. [Obs. & R.] Shak. 

LABRET:  A piece of wood, shell, stone, or other substance, worn in a perforation of the lip or cheek by many savages. 

LABROID:  Like the genus Labrus; belonging to the family Labridæ, an extensive family of marine fishes, often brilliantly colored, which are very abundant in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The tautog and cunner are American examples. 

LABROSE:  Having thick lips. 

LABRUS:  A genus of marine fishes, including the wrasses of Europe. See Wrasse. 

LABURNIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the laburnum. 

LABURNINE:  A poisonous alkaloid found in the unripe seeds of the laburnum. 

LABURNUM:  A small leguminous tree (Cytisus Laburnum), native of the Alps. The plant is reputed to be poisonous, esp. the bark and seeds. It has handsome racemes of yellow blossoms.  Note: Scotch laburnum (Cytisus alpinus) is similar, but has smooth leaves; purple laburnum is C. purpureus. 

LABYRINTH:  The internal ear. See Note under Ear.  6. (Metal.)  A series of canals through which a stream of water is directed for suspending, carrying off, and depositing at different distances, the ground ore of a metal. Ure.  7. (Arch.)  A pattern or design representing a maze, -- often inlaid in the tiled floor of a church, etc.  Syn.  -- Maze; confusion; intricacy; windings.  -- Labyrinth, Maze. Labyrinth, originally; the name of an edifice or excavation, carries the idea of design, and construction in a permanent form, while maze is used of anything confused or confusing, whether fixed or shifting. Maze is less restricted in its figurative uses than labyrinth. We speak of the labyrinth of the ear, or of the mind, and of a labyrinth of difficulties; but of the mazes of the dance, the mazes of political intrigue, or of the mind being in a maze. 

LABYRINTHAL:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a labyrinth; intricate; labyrinthian. 

LABYRINTHIAN:  Intricately winding; like a labyrinth; perplexed; labyrinthal. 

LABYRINTHIBRANCH:  Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthici.  -- n.  One of the Labyrinthici.  LABYRINTHIC; LABYRINTHICAL Lab`y*rin"thic, Lab`y*rin`thic*al, a. Etym: [L. labyrinthicus: cf. F. labyrinthique.]  Like or pertaining to a labyrinth. 

LABYRINTHICI:  An order of teleostean fishes, including the Anabas, or climbing perch, and other allied fishes.  Note: They have, connected with the gill chamber, a special cavity in which a labyrinthiform membrane is arranged so as to retain water to supply the gills while the fish leaves the water and travels about on land, or even climbs trees. 

LABYRINTHIFORM:  Having the form of a labyrinth; intricate. 

LABYRINTHINE:  Pertaining to, or like, a labyrinth; labyrinthal. 

LABYRINTHODON:  A genus of very large fossil amphibians, of the Triassic period, having bony plates on the under side of the body. It is the type of the order Labyrinthodonta. Called also Mastodonsaurus. 

LABYRINTHODONT:  Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthodonta.  -- n.  One of the Labyrinthodonta. 

LABYRINTHODONTA:  An extinct order of Amphibia, including the typical genus Labyrinthodon, and many other allied forms, from the Carboniferous, Permian, and Triassic formations. By recent writers they are divided into two or more orders. See Stegocephala.  LAC; LAKH Lac, Lakh (, n. Etym: [Hind. lak, lakh, laksh, Skr. laksha a mark, sign, lakh.]  One hundred thousand; also, a vaguely great number; as, a lac of rupees. [Written also lack.] [East Indies] 

LAC:  A resinous substance produced mainly on the banyan tree, but to some extent on other trees, by the Coccus lacca, a scale-shaped insect, the female of which fixes herself on the bark, and exudes from the margin of her body this resinous substance.  Note: Stick-lac is the substance in its natural state, incrusting small twigs. When broken off, and the coloring matter partly removed, the granular residuum is called seed-lac. When melted, and reduced to a thin crust, it is called shell-lac or shellac. Lac is an important ingredient in sealing wax, dyes, varnishes, and lacquers. Ceylon lac, a resinous exudation of the tree Croton lacciferum, resembling lac.  -- Lac dye, a scarlet dye obtained from stick-lac.  -- Lac lake, the coloring matter of lac dye when precipitated from its solutions by alum.  -- Mexican lac, an exudation of the tree Croton Draco. 

LACCIC:  Pertaining to lac, or produced from it; as, laccic acid. 

LACCIN:  A yellow amorphous substance obtained from lac.  LACCOLITE; LACCOLITH Lac"co*lite, Lac"co*lith, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite, -lith.] (Geol.)  A mass of igneous rock intruded between sedimentary beds and resulting in a mammiform bulging of the overlying strata.  -- Lac`co*lit"ic, a. 

LACE:  To be fastened with a lace, or laces; as, these boots lace.  LACE-BARK Lace"-bark`, n. (Bot.)  A shrub in the West Indies (Lagetta Iintearia); -- so called from the lacelike layers of its inner bark. 

LACEDAEMONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Lacedæmon or Sparta, the chief city of Laconia in the Peloponnesus.  -- n.  A Spartan. [Written also Lacedemonian.] 

LACEMAN:  A man who deals in lace. 

LACERABLE:  That can be lacerated or torn. 

LACERATE:  To tear; to rend; to separate by tearing; to mangle; as, to lacerate the flesh. Hence: To afflict; to torture; as, to lacerate the heart.  LACERATE; LACERATED Lac"er*ate, Lac"er*a`ted, p. a. Etym: [L. laceratus, p. p.]  1. Rent; torn; mangled; as, a lacerated wound. By each other's fury lacerate Southey.  2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Jagged, or slashed irregularly, at the end, or along the edge. 

LACERATIVE:  Lacerating, or having the power to lacerate; as, lacerative humors. Harvey. 

LACERT:  A muscle of the human body. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LACERTA:  A fathom. [Obs.] Domesday Book. 

LACERTA:  A genus of lizards. See Lizard.  Note: Formerly it included nearly all the known lizards. It is now restricted to certain diurnal Old World species, like the green lizard (Lacerta viridis) and the sand lizard (L. agilis), of Europe.  2. (Astron.)  The Lizard, a northern constellation. 

LACERTIAN:  Like a lizard; of or pertaining to the Lacertilia.  -- n.  One of the Lacertilia. 

LACERTILIA:  An order of Reptilia, which includes the lizards.  Note: They are closely related to the snakes, and life the latter, usually have the body covered with scales or granules. They usually have eyelids, and most of then have well-formed legs; but in some groups (amphisbæna, glass-snake, etc.) the legs are wanting and the body is serpentlike. None are venomous, unless Heloderma be an exception. The order includes the chameleons, the Cionocrania, or typical lizards, and the amphisbænas. See Amphisbæna, Gecko, Gila monster, and Lizard. 

LACERTILIAN:  Same as Lacertian. 

LACERTILOID:  Like or belonging to the Lacertilia. 

LACERTINE:  Lacertian. 

LACERTUS:  A bundle or fascicle of muscular fibers. 

LACEWING:  Any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the genus Chrysopa and allied genera. They have delicate, lacelike wings and brilliant eyes. Their larvæ are useful in destroying aphids. Called also lace-winged fly, and goldeneyed fly.  LACE-WINGED Lace"-winged`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having thin, transparent, reticulated wings; as, the lace- winged flies.  LACHES; LACHE Lach"es, Lache, n. Etym: [OF. lachesse, fr. lache lax, indolent, F. lâche, ultimately fr. L. laxus loose, lax. See Lax.] (Law)  Neglect; negligence; remissness; neglect to do a thing at the proper time; delay to assert a claim. It ill became him to take advantage of such a laches with the eagerness of a shrewd attorney. Macaulay. 

LACHRYMABLE:  Lamentable. Martin Parker.  LACHRYMAE CHRISTI Lach"ry*mæ Chris"ti. Etym: [L., lit., Christ's tears.]  A rich, sweet, red Neapolitan wine. 

LACHRYMAL:  See Lachrymatory. 

LACHRYMALS:  Tears; also, lachrymal feelings or organs. [Colloq.]  People go to the theaters to have . . . their risibles and lachrymals set agoing. The Lutheran. 

LACHRYMARY:  Containing, or intended to contain, tears; lachrymal. Addison. 

LACHRYMATE:  To weep. [R.] Blount. 

LACHRYMATION:  The act of shedding tears; weeping. 

LACHRYMATORY:  A "tear-bottle;" a narrow-necked vessel found in sepulchers of the ancient Romans; -- so called from a former notion that the tears of the deceased person's friends were collected in it. Called also lachrymal or lacrymal. 

LACHRYMIFORM:  Having the form of a tear; tear-shaped. 

LACHRYMOSE:  Generating or shedding tears; given to shedding tears; suffused with tears; tearful. You should have seen his lachrymose visnomy. Lamb. -- Lach"ry*mose`ly, adv. 

LACING:  A system of bracing bars, not crossing each other in the middle, connecting the channel bars of a compound strut. Waddell. 

LACINIA:  The posterior, inner process of the stipes on the maxillæ of insects.  LACINIATE; LACINIATED La*cin"i*ate, La*cin"i*a"ted, a. Etym: [See Lacinia.]  1. Fringed; having a fringed border.  2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Cut into deep, narrow, irregular lobes; slashed. 

LACINIOLATE:  Consisting of, or abounding in, very minute laciniæ. 

LACINULA:  A diminutive lacinia. 

LACK:  Exclamation of regret or surprise. [Prov. Eng.] Cowper. 

LACKADAISICAL:  Affectedly pensive; languidly sentimental.  -- Lack`a*dai"si*cal*ly, adv. 

LACKADAISY:  An expression of languor. 

LACKADAISY:  Lackadaisical. 

LACKADAY:  Alack the day; alas; -- an expression of sorrow, regret, dissatisfaction, or surprise. 

LACKBRAIN:  One who is deficient in understanding; a witless person. Shak. 

LACKER:  One who lacks or is in want. 

LACKER:  See Lacquer. 

LACKEY:  An attending male servant; a footman; a servile follower. Like a Christian footboy or a gentleman's lackey. Shak. Lackey caterpillar (Zoöl.), the caterpillar, or larva, of any bombycid moth of the genus Clisiocampa; -- so called from its party- colored markings. The common European species (C. neustria) is striped with blue, yellow, and red, with a white line on the back. The American species (C. Americana and C. sylvatica) are commonly called tent caterpillars. See Tent caterpillar,under Tent.  -- Lackey moth (Zoöl.), the moth which produces the lackey caterpillar. 

LACKEY:  To attend as a lackey; to wait upon. A thousand liveried angels lackey her. Milton. 

LACKEY:  To act or serve as lackey; to pay servile attendance.  LACKLUSTER; LACKLUSTRE Lack"lus`ter, Lack"lus`tre, n.  A want of luster.  -- a.  Wanting luster or brightness. "Lackluster eye." Shak. 

LACMUS:  See Litmus. 

LACONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Laconia, a division of ancient Greece; Spartan.  -- n.  An inhabitant of Laconia; esp., a Spartan.  LACONIC; LACONICAL La*con"ic, La*con"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Laconicus Laconian, Gr. laconique.]  1. Expressing much in few words, after the manner of the Laconians or Spartans; brief and pithy; brusque; epigrammatic. In this sense laconic is the usual form. I grow laconic even beyond laconicism; for sometimes I return only yes, or no, to questionary or petitionary epistles of half a yard long. Pope. His sense was strong and his style laconic. Welwood.  2. Laconian; characteristic of, or like, the Spartans; hence, stern or severe; cruel; unflinching. His head had now felt the razor, his back the rod; all that laconical discipline pleased him well. Bp. Hall.  Syn.  -- Short; brief; concise; succinct; sententious; pointed; pithy.  -- Laconic, Concise. Concise means without irrelevant or superfluous matter; it is the opposite of diffuse. Laconic means concise with the additional quality of pithiness, sometimes of brusqueness. 

LACONIC:  Laconism. [Obs.] Addison. 

LACONICAL:  See Laconic, a. 

LACONICALLY:  In a laconic manner. 

LACONICISM:  Same as Laconism. Pope. 

LACONIZE:  To imitate the manner of the Laconians, especially in brief, pithy speech, or in frugality and austerity. 

LACQUER:  A varnish, consisting of a solution of shell-lac in alcohol, often colored with gamboge, saffron, or the like; -- used for varnishing metals, papier-maché, and wood. The name is also given to varnishes made of other ingredients, esp. the tough, solid varnish of the Japanese, with which ornamental objects are made. 

LACQUER:  To cover with lacquer. "Lacquer'd chair." Pope. 

LACQUERER:  One who lacquers, especially one who makes a business of lacquering. 

LACQUERING:  The act or business of putting on lacquer; also, the coat of lacquer put on. 

LACRIMOSO:  Plaintive; -- a term applied to a mournful or pathetic movement or style. Moore. 

LACROSSE:  A game of ball, originating among the North American Indians, now the popular field sport of Canada, and played also in England and the United States. Each player carries a long-handled racket, called a "crosse". The ball is not handled but caught with the crosse and carried on it, or tossed from it, the object being to carry it or throw it through one of the goals placed at opposite ends of the field. 

LACRYMAL:  See Lachrymatory, n., and Lachrymal, a.  LACRYMARY; LACRYTORY; LACRYMOSE Lac"ry*ma*ry, Lac"ry*to*ry, Lac"ry*mose.  See Lachrymary, Lachrymatory, Lachrymose. 

LACTAGE:  The produce of animals yielding milk; milk and that which is made from it. 

LACTAM:  One of a series of anhydrides of an amido type, analogous to the lactones, as oxindol. 

LACTAMIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an amido acid related to lactic acid, and called also amido-propionic acid. 

LACTAMIDE:  An acid amide derived from lactic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance having a neutral reaction. It is metameric with alanine. 

LACTANT:  Suckling; giving suck. 

LACTARENE:  A preparation of casein from milk, used in printing calico. 

LACTARY:  Milky; full of white juice like milk. [Obs.] "Lactary or milky plants." Sir T. Browne. 

LACTARY:  a dairyhouse. [R.] 

LACTATE:  A salt of lactic acid. 

LACTATION:  A giving suck; the secretion and yielding of milk by the mammary gland. 

LACTEAL:  Pertaining to, or containing, chyle; as, the lacteal vessels. 

LACTEAL:  One of the lymphatic vessels which convey chyle from the small intestine through the mesenteric glands to the thoracic duct; a chyliferous vessel. 

LACTEALLY:  Milkily; in the manner of milk. 

LACTEAN:  Lacteal; conveying chyle. 

LACTEOUSLY:  In a lacteous manner; after the manner of milk. 

LACTESCENCE:  The latex of certain plants. See Latex. 

LACTESCENT:  Producing milk or a milklike juice or fluid, as the milkweed. See Latex. 

LACTIC:  Of or pertaining to milk; procured from sour milk or whey; as, lactic acid; lactic fermentation, etc. Lactic acid (Physiol. Chem.), a sirupy, colorless fluid, soluble in water, with an intensely sour taste and strong acid reaction. There are at least three isomeric modifications all having the formula C3H6O3. Sarcolactic or paralactic acid occurs chiefly in dead muscle tissue, while ordinary lactic acid results from fermentation. The two acids are alike in having the same constitution (expressed by the name ethylidene lactic acid), but the latter is optically inactive, while sarcolactic acid rotates the plane of polarization to the right. The third acid, ethylene lactic acid, accompanies sarcolactic acid in the juice of flesh, and is optically inactive.  -- Lactic ferment, an organized ferment (Bacterium lacticum or lactis), which produces lactic fermentation, decomposing the sugar of milk into carbonic and lactic acids, the latter, of which renders the milk sour, and precipitates the casein, thus giving rise to the so- called spontaneous coagulation of milk.  -- Lactic fermentation. See under Fermentation. 

LACTIDE:  A white, crystalline substance, obtained from also, by extension, any similar substance. 

LACTIFEROUS:  Bearing or containing milk or a milky fluid; as, the lactiferous vessels, cells, or tissue of various vascular plants.  LACTIFIC; LACTIFICAL Lac*tif"ic, Lac*tif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. lac, lactis, milk + facere to make.]  Producing or yielding milk. 

LACTIFUGE:  A medicine to check the secretion of milk, or to dispel a supposed accumulation of milk in any part of the body. 

LACTIM:  One of a series of anhydrides resembling the lactams, but of an imido type; as, isatine is a lactim. Cf. Lactam. 

LACTIMIDE:  A white, crystalline substance obtained as an anhydride of alanine, and regarded as an imido derivative of lactic acid. 

LACTIN:  See Lactose. 

LACTOABUMIN:  The albumin present on milk, apparently identical with ordinary serum albumin. It is distinct from the casein of milk. 

LACTOBUTYROMETER:  An instrument for determining the amount of butter fat contained in a given sample of milk. 

LACTODENSIMETER:  A form of hydrometer, specially graduated, for finding the density of milk, and thus discovering whether it has been mixed with water or some of the cream has been removed. 

LACTOMETER:  An instrument for estimating the purity or richness of milk, as a measuring glass, a specific gravity bulb, or other apparatus. 

LACTONE:  One of a series of organic compounds, regarded as anhydrides of certain hydroxy acids. In general, they are colorless liquids, having a weak aromatic odor. They are so called because the typical lactone is derived from lactic acid. 

LACTONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, lactone. 

LACTONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the oxidation of milk sugar (lactose). 

LACTOPROTEIN:  A peculiar albuminous body considered a normal constituent of milk. 

LACTORY:  Lactiferous. [Obs.] "Lactory or milky plants." Sir T. Browne. 

LACTOSCOPE:  An instrument for estimating the amount of cream contained in milk by ascertaining its relative opacity. 

LACTOSE:  Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present in milk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization. It has a slightly sweet taste, is dextrorotary, and is much less soluble in water than either cane sugar or glucose. Formerly called lactin.  2. (Chem.)  See Galactose. 

LACTUCA:  A genus of composite herbs, several of which are cultivated foe salad; lettuce. 

LACTUCARIUM:  The inspissated juice of the common lettuce, sometimes used as a substitute for opium. 

LACTUCIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the juice of the Lactuca virosa; -- said of certain acids. 

LACTUCIN:  A white, crystalline substance, having a bitter taste and a neutral reaction, and forming one of the essential ingredients of lactucarium. 

LACTUCONE:  A white, crystalline, tasteless substance, found in the milky sap of species of Lactuca, and constituting an essential ingredient of lactucarium. 

LACTURAMIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an organic amido acid, which is regarded as a derivative of lactic acid and urea. 

LACTYL:  An organic residue or radical derived from lactic acid. 

LACUNA:  A small opening; a small depression or cavity; a space, as a vacant space between the cells of plants, or one of the spaces left among the tissues of the lower animals, which serve in place of vessels for the circulation of the body fluids, or the cavity or sac, usually of very small size, in a mucous membrane.  LACUNAL; LACUNAR La*cu"nal, La*cu"nar, a.  Pertaining to, or having, lacunæ; as, a lacunar circulation. 

LACUNE:  A lacuna. [R.] Landor.  LACUNOSE; LACUNOUS Lac"u*nose`, La*cu"nous, a. Etym: [L. lacunosus full of holes or hollows; cf. F. lacuneux. See Lacuna.] (Biol.)  Furrowed or pitted; having shallow cavities or lacunæ; as, a lacunose leaf.  LACUSTRAL; LACUSTRINE La*cus"tral, La*cus"trine, a. Etym: [L. lacus lake: cf. F. lacustral, lacustre.]  Found in, or pertaining to, lakes or ponds, or growing in them; as, lacustrine flowers. Lacustrine deposits (Geol.), the deposits which have been accumulated in fresh-water areas.  -- Lacustrine dwellings. See Lake dwellings, under Lake. 

LACWORK:  Ornamentation by means of lacquer painted or carved, or simply colored, sprinkled with gold or the like; -- said especially of Oriental work of this kind. 

LAD:  of Lead, to guide Chaucer. 

LADANUM:  A gum resin gathered from certain Oriental species of Cistus. It has a pungent odor and is chiefly used in making plasters, and for fumigation. [Written also labdanum.] 

LADDE:  of Lead, to guide. Chaucer. 

LADDIE:  A lad; a male sweetheart. [Scot.] 

LADE:  To transfer (the molten glass) from the pot to the forming table. 

LADE:  To admit water by leakage, as a ship, etc. 

LADEMAN:  One who leads a pack horse; a miller's servant. [Obs. or Local] 

LADEN:  Loaded; freighted; burdened; as, a laden vessel; a laden heart. Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Is. i. 4. A ship laden with gold. Shak. 

LADIED:  Ladylike; not rough; gentle. [Obs.] "Stroked with a ladied land." Feltham.  LADIES' EARDROPS La"dies' ear`drops`. (Bot.)  The small-flowered Fuchsia (F. coccinea), and other closely related species. 

LADIFY:  To make a lady of; to make ladylike. [Obs.] Massinger. 

LADIN:  A Romansch dialect spoken in some parts of Switzerland and the Tyrol. 

LADINO:  One of the half-breed descendants of whites and Indians; a mestizo; -- so called throughout Central America. They are usually of a yellowish orange tinge. Am. Cyc. 

LADKIN:  A little lad. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

LADLE:  A vessel to carry liquid metal from the furnace to the mold.  3. The float of a mill wheel; -- called also ladle board.  4. (Gun.) (a) An instrument for drawing the charge of a cannon. (b) A ring, with a handle or handles fitted to it, for carrying shot. Ladle wood (Bot.), the wood of a South African tree (Cassine Colpoon), used for carving. 

LADLE:  To take up and convey in a ladle; to dip with, or as with, a ladle; as, to ladle out soup; to ladle oatmeal into a kettle. 

LADLEFUL:  A quantity sufficient to fill a ladle. 

LADRONE:  A robber; a pirate; hence, loosely, a rogue or rascal. 

LADY:  The triturating apparatus in the stomach of a lobster; -- so called from a fancied resemblance to a seated female figure. It consists of calcareous plates. Ladies' man, a man who affects the society of ladies.  -- Lady altar, an altar in a lady chapel. Shipley.  -- Lady chapel, a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary.  -- Lady court, the court of a lady of the manor.  -- Lady crab (Zoöl.), a handsomely spotted swimming crab (Platyonichus ocellatus) very common on the sandy shores of the Atlantic coast of the United States.  -- Lady fern. (Bot.) See Female fern, under Female, and Illust. of Fern.  -- Lady in waiting, a lady of the queen's household, appointed to wait upon or attend the queen.  -- Lady Mass, a Mass said in honor of the Virgin Mary. Shipley. Lady of the manor, a lady having jurisdiction of a manor; also, the wife of a manor lord. Lady's maid, a maidservant who dresses and waits upon a lady. Thackeray.  -- Our Lady, the Virgin Mary. 

LADY:  Belonging or becoming to a lady; ladylike. "Some lady trifles." Shak. 

LADYBIRD:  Any one of numerous species of small beetles of the genus Coccinella and allied genera (family Coccinellidæ); -- called also ladybug, ladyclock, lady cow, lady fly, and lady beetle. Coccinella seplempunctata in one of the common European species. See Coccinella.  Note: The ladybirds are usually more or less hemispherical in form, with a smooth, polished surface, and often colored red, brown, or black, with small spots of brighter colors. Both the larvæ and the adult beetles of most species feed on aphids, and for this reason they are very beneficial to agriculture and horticulture. 

LADYBUG:  Same as Ladybird. 

LADYCLOCK:  See Ladyrird.  LADY DAY La"dy` day  The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. See Annunciation.  LADY DAY La"dy` Day` (da).  The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. See Annunciation. 

LADYHOOD:  The state or quality of being a lady; the personality of a lady.  LADY-KILLER La"dy-kill`er, n.  A gallant who captivates the hearts of women. "A renowned dandy and lady-killer." Blackw. Mag.  LADY-KILLING La"dy-kill`ing, n.  The art or practice of captivating the hearts of women. Better for the sake of womankind that this dangerous dog should leave off lady-killing. Thackeray. 

LADYKIN:  A little lady; -- applied by the writers of Queen Elizabeth's time, in the abbreviated form Lakin, to the Virgin Mary.  Note: The diminutive does not refer to size, but is equivalent to "dear." Brewer. 

LADYLIKENESS:  The quality or state of being ladylike. 

LADYLOVE:  A sweetheart or mistress.  LADY'S BEDSTRAW La"dy's bed"straw`, (Bot.)  The common bedstraw (Galium verum); also, a slender-leaved East Indian shrub (Pharnaceum Mollugo), with white flowers in umbels.  LADY'S BOWER La"dy's bow"er. (Bot.)  A climbing plant with fragrant blossoms (Clematis vitalba).  Note: This term is sometimes applied to other plants of the same genus.  LADY'S CLOTH La"dy's cloth`  A kind of broadcloth of light weight, used for women's dresses, cloaks, etc.  LADY'S COMB La"dy's comb", (Bot.)  An umbelliferous plant (Scandix Pecten-Veneris), its clusters of long slender fruits remotely resembling a comb.  LADY'S CUSHION La"dy's cush"ion, (Bot.)  An herb growing in dense tufts; the thrift (Armeria vulgaris).  LADY'S FINGER La"dy's fin"ger,  1. pl. (Bot.)  The kidney vetch.  2. (Cookery)  A variety of small cake of about the dimensions of a finger.  3. A long, slender variety of the potato.  4. (Zoöl.)  One of the branchiæ of the lobster.  LADY'S GARTERS La"dy's gar"ters. (Bot.)  Ribbon grass.  LADY'S HAIR La"dy's hair". (Bot.)  A plant of the genus Briza (B. media); a variety of quaking grass. 

LADYSHIP:  The rank or position of a lady; -- given as a title (preceded by her or your.) Your ladyship shall observe their gravity. B. Jonson.  LADY'S LACES La"dy's la"ces. (Bot.)  A slender climbing plant; dodder.  LADY'S LOOKING-GLASS La"dy's look"ing-glass`. (Bot.)  See Venus's looking-glass, under Venus.  LADY'S MANTLE La"dy's man"tle. (Bot.)  A genus of rosaceous herbs (Alchemilla), esp. the European A. vulgaris, which has leaves with rounded and finely serrated lobes.  LADY'S SEAL La"dy's seal".(Bot.) (a) The European Solomon's seal (Polygonatum verticillatum). (b) The black bryony (Tamus communis).  LADY'S SLIPPER La"dy's slip"per. (Bot.)  Any orchidaceous plant of the genus Cypripedium, the labellum of which resembles a slipper. Less commonly, in the United States, the garden balsam (Impatiens Balsamina).  LADY'S SMOCK La"dy's smock". (Bot.)  A plant of the genus Cardamine (C. pratensis); cuckoo flower.  LADY'S THIMBLE La"dy's thim"ble. (Bot.)  The harebell.  LADY'S THUMB La"dy's thumb". (Bot.)  An annual weed (Polygonum Persicaria), having a lanceolate leaf with a dark spot in the middle.  LADY'S TRACES; LADIES' TRESSES; LADIES TRESSES La"dy's tra"ces, La"dies' tress"es. (Bot.)  A name given to several species of the orchidaceous genus Spiranthes, in which the white flowers are set in spirals about a slender axis and remotely resemble braided hair. 

LAELAPS:  A genus of huge, carnivorous, dinosaurian reptiles from the Cretaceous formation of the United States. They had very large hind legs and tail, and are supposed to have been bipedal. Some of the species were about eighteen feet high. 

LAEMMERGEYER:  See Lammergeir. 

LAEMODIPOD:  One of the Læmodipoda. 

LAEMODIPODA:  A division of amphipod Crustacea, in which the abdomen is small or rudimentary and the legs are often reduced to five pairs. The whale louse, or Cyamus, and Caprella are examples. 

LAEMODIPODOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Læmodipoda.  LAETERE SUNDAY Læ*te"re Sun"day  . The fourth Sunday of Lent; -- so named from the Latin word Lætare (rejoice), the first word in the antiphone of the introit sung that day in the Roman Catholic service. 

LAEVIGATE:  Having a smooth surface, as if polished.  LAEVO- Læ"vo-  . A prefix. See Levo. 

LAEVOROTATORY:  Same as Levorotatory. Cf. Dextrorotatory. 

LAEVULOSE:  See Levulose. 

LAFT:  of Leave. Chaucer. 

LAFTE:  of Leave. Chaucer. 

LAG:  See Graylag. Lag of the tide, the interval by which the time of high water falls behind the mean time, in the first and third quarters of the moon; -- opposed to priming of the tide, or the acceleration of the time of high water, in the second and fourth quarters; depending on the relative positions of the sun and moon.  -- Lag screw, an iron bolt with a square head, a sharp-edged thread, and a sharp point, adapted for screwing into wood; a screw for fastening lags. 

LAG:  To walk or more slowly; to stay or fall behind; to linger or loiter. "I shall not lag behind." Milton.  Syn.  -- To loiter; linger; saunter; delay; be tardy. 

LAG:  To cover, as the cylinder of a steam engine, with lags. See Lag, n., 4. 

LAG:  One transported for a crime. [Slang, Eng.] 

LAG:  To transport for crime. [Slang, Eng.] She lags us if we poach. De Quincey. 

LAGAN:  See Ligan. 

LAGARTO:  An alligator. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

LAGENA:  The terminal part of the cochlea in birds and most reptiles; an appendage of the sacculus, corresponding to the cochlea, in fishes and amphibians. 

LAGENIAN:  Like, or pertaining to, Lagena, a genus of Foraminifera having a straight, chambered shell. 

LAGENIFORM:  Shaped like a bottle or flask; flag-shaped. 

LAGER:  Lager beer.  LAGER BEER La"ger beer`. Etym: [G. lager bed, storehouse + bier beer. See Lair, and Beer.]  Originally a German beer, but now also made in immense quantities in the United States; -- so called from its being laid up or stored for some months before use.  LAGER WINE La"ger wine`  . Wine which has been kept for some time in the cellar. Simmonds. 

LAGGARD:  Slow; sluggish; backward. 

LAGGARD:  One who lags; a loiterer. 

LAGGER:  A laggard. 

LAGGING:  The clothing (esp., an outer, wooden covering), as of a steam cylinder, applied to prevent the radiation of heat; a covering of lags; -- called also deading and cleading.  2. Lags, collectively; narrow planks extending from one rib to another in the centering of arches. 

LAGGINGLY:  In a lagging manner; loiteringly. 

LAGLY:  Laggingly. [Prov. Eng.]  LAGNIAPPE; LAGNAPPE La*gniappe, La*gnappe", n. [Etym. uncertain.]  In Louisiana, a trifling present given to customers by tradesmen; a gratuity.  Lagniappe . . .is something thrown in, gratis, for good measure. Mark Twain. 

LAGOMORPH:  One of the Lagomorpha. 

LAGOMORPHA:  A group of rodents, including the hares. They have four incisors in the upper jaw. Called also Duplicidentata. 

LAGOON:  A morbid condition in which the eye stands wide open, giving a peculiar staring appearance. 

LAGOPOUS:  Having a dense covering of long hair, like the foot of a hare. 

LAGTHING:  See Legislatature, below. 

LAGUNE:  See Lagoon.  LAIC; LAICAL La"ic, La"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. laicus: cf. F. laïque. See Lay laic.]  Of or pertaining to a layman or the laity. "Laical literature." Lowell. An unprincipled, unedified, and laic rabble. Milton. 

LAIC:  A layman. Bp. Morton. 

LAICALITY:  The state or quality of being laic; the state or condition of a layman. 

LAICALLY:  As a layman; after the manner of a layman; as, to treat a matter laically. 

LAID:  of Lay. Laid paper, paper marked with parallel lines or water marks, as if ribbed, from parallel wires in the mold. It is called blue laid, cream laid, etc., according to its color. 

LAIDLY:  Ugly; loathsome. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] This laidly and loathsome worm. W. Howitt. 

LAIN:  of Lie, v. i. 

LAINERE:  See Lanier. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAIRD:  A lord; a landholder, esp. one who holds land directly of the crown. [Scot.] 

LAIRDSHIP:  The state of being a laird; an estate; landed property. [Scot.] Ramsay. 

LAISM:  See Lamaism. [R.]  LAISSEZ FAIRE Lais`sez" faire". Etym: [F., let alone.]  Noninterference; -- an axiom of some political economists, deprecating interference of government by attempts to foster or regulate commerce, manufactures, etc., by bounty or by restriction; as, the doctrine of laissez faire; the laissez faire system government. 

LAKAO:  Sap green. [China] 

LAKE:  A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually by precipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminium hydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc. 

LAKE:  A kind of fine white linen, formerly in use. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAKE:  To play; to sport. [Prov. Eng.] 

LAKE:  A large body of water contained in a depression of the earth's surface, and supplied from the drainage of a more or less extended area.  Note: Lakes are for the most part of fresh water; the salt lakes, like the Great Salt Lake of Utah, have usually no outlet to the ocean. Lake dwellers (Ethnol.), people of a prehistoric race, or races, which inhabited different parts of Europe. Their dwellings were built on piles in lakes, a short distance from the shore. Their relics are common in the lakes of Switzerland.  -- Lake dwellings (Archæol.), dwellings built over a lake, sometimes on piles, and sometimes on rude foundations kept in place by piles; specifically, such dwellings of prehistoric times. Lake dwellings are still used by many savage tribes. Called also lacustrine dwellings. See Crannog.  -- Lake fly (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of dipterous flies of the genus Chironomus. In form they resemble mosquitoes, but they do not bite. The larvæ live in lakes.  -- Lake herring (Zoöl.), the cisco (Coregonus Artedii).  -- Lake poets, Lake school, a collective name originally applied in contempt, but now in honor, to Southey, Coleridge, and Wordsworth, who lived in the lake country of Cumberland, England, Lamb and a few others were classed with these by hostile critics. Called also lakers and lakists.  -- Lake sturgeon (Zoöl.), a sturgeon (Acipenser rubicundus), of moderate size, found in the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River. It is used as food.  -- Lake trout (Zoöl.), any one of several species of trout and salmon; in Europe, esp. Salmo fario; in the United States, esp. Salvelinus namaycush of the Great Lakes, and of various lakes in New York, Eastern Maine, and Canada. A large variety of brook trout (S. fontinalis), inhabiting many lakes in New England, is also called lake trout. See Namaycush.  -- Lake whitefish. (Zoöl.) See Whitefish.  -- Lake whiting (Zoöl.), an American whitefish (Coregonus Labradoricus), found in many lakes in the Northern United States and Canada. It is more slender than the common whitefish.  LAKE-DWELLER Lake"-dwell`er, n.  See Lake dwellers, under Lake. 

LAKELET:  A little lake. Southey. 

LAKEWEED:  The water pepper (Polygonum Hydropiper), an aquatic plant of Europe and North America. 

LAKH:  Same as Lac, one hundred thousand. 

LAKIN:  See Ladykin. 

LAKKE:  See Lack. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAKY:  Pertaining to a lake. Sir W. Scott. 

LAKY:  Transparent; -- said of blood rendered transparent by the action of some solvent agent on the red blood corpuscles. 

LALLATION:  An imperfect enunciation of the letter r, in which it sounds like l. 

LALO:  The powdered leaves of the baobab tree, used by the Africans to mix in their soup, as the southern negroes use powdered sassafras. Cf. Couscous. 

LAM:  To beat soundly; to thrash. [Obs. or Low] Beau. & Fl. 

LAMA:  See Llama. 

LAMA:  In Thibet, Mongolia, etc., a priest or monk of the belief called Lamaism. The Grand Lama, or Dalai Lama Etym: [lit., Ocean Lama], the supreme pontiff in the lamaistic hierarchy. See Lamaism. 

LAMAIC:  Of or pertaining to Lamaism. 

LAMAISM:  A modified form of Buddhism which prevails in Thibet, Mongolia, and some adjacent parts of Asia; -- so called from the name of its priests. See 2d Lama.  LAMAIST; LAMAITE La"ma*ist, La"ma*ite n.  One who believes in Lamaism. 

LAMAISTIC:  Of or pertaining to Lamaism. 

LAMANTIN:  The manatee. [Written also lamentin, and lamantine.] 

LAMARCKIAN:  Pertaining to, or involved in, the doctrines of Lamarckianism. 

LAMARCKIANISM:  Lamarckism. 

LAMARCKISM:  The theory that structural variations, characteristic of species and genera, are produced in animals and plants by the direct influence of physical environments, and esp., in the case of animals, by effort, or by use or disuse of certain organs. 

LAMASERY:  A mo 

LAMB:  The young of the sheep.  2. Any person who is as innocent or gentle as a lamb.  3. A simple, unsophisticated person; in the cant of the Stock Exchange, one who ignorantly speculates and is victimized. Lamb of God, The Lamb (Script.), the Jesus Christ, in allusion to the paschal lamb. The twelve apostles of the Lamb. Rev. xxi. 14. Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. John i. 29. -- Lamb's lettuce (Bot.), an annual plant with small obovate leaves (Valerianella olitoria), often used as a salad; corn salad. [Written also lamb lettuce.] -- Lamb's tongue, a carpenter's plane with a deep narrow bit, for making curved grooves. Knight.  -- Lamb's wool. (a) The wool of a lamb. (b) Ale mixed with the pulp of roasted apples; -- probably from the resemblance of the pulp of roasted apples to lamb's wool. [Obs.] Goldsmith. 

LAMB:  To bring forth a lamb or lambs, as sheep. 

LAMBALE:  A feast at the time of shearing lambs. 

LAMBASTE:  To beat severely. [Low] Nares. 

LAMBATIVE:  Taken by licking with the tongue. "Sirups and lambative medicines." Sir T. Browne. 

LAMBATIVE:  A medicine taken by licking with the tongue; a lincture. Wiseman. 

LAMBDA:  The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures of the skull. Lambda moth (Zoöl.), a moth so called from a mark on its wings, resembling the Greek letter lambda ( 

LAMBDOID:  Shaped like the Greek letter lambda (as, the lambdoid suture between the occipital and parietal bones of the skull. 

LAMBDOIDAL:  Same as Lambdoid. 

LAMBENT:  The gigantic sugar pine of California and Oregon (Pinus Lambertiana). It has the leaves in fives, and cones a foot long. The timber is soft, and like that of the white pine of the Eastern States. 

LAMBKILL:  A small American ericaceous shrub (Kalmia angustifolia); -- called also calfkill, sheepkill, sheep laurel, etc. It is supposed to poison sheep and other animals that eat it at times when the snow is deep and they cannot find other food. 

LAMBKIN:  A small lamb. 

LAMBLIKE:  Like a lamb; gentle; meek; inoffensive. 

LAMBOYS:  Same as Base, n., 19. 

LAMBSKINNET:  See Lansquenet.  LAMB'S-QUARTERS Lamb's-quar"ters, n. (Bot.)  A name given to several plants of the Goosefoot family, sometimes used as pot herbs, as Chenopodium album and Atriplex patulsa. 

LAMDOIDAL:  Lambdoid. [R.] 

LAME:  To make lame. If you happen to let child fall and lame it. Swift. 

LAMEL:  See Lamella. 

LAMELLA:  a thin plate or scale of anything, as a thin scale growing from the petals of certain flowers; or one of the thin plates or scales of which certain shells are composed.  LAMELLAR; LAMELLARLY Lam"el*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lamellaire.]  Flat and thin; lamelliform; composed of lamellæ.  -- Lam"el*lar*ly, adv.  In thin plates or scales. 

LAMELLARY:  Of or pertaining to lamella or to lamellæ; lamellar.  LAMELLATE; LAMELLATED Lam"el*late, Lam"el*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Lamella.]  Composed of, or furnished with, thin plates or scales. See Illust. of Antennæ. 

LAMELLIBRANCH:  One of the Lamellibranchia. Also used adjectively.  LAMELLIBRANCHIA; LAMELLIBRANCHIATA La*mel`li*bran"chi*a, La*mel`li*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See lamella, and Branchia, Branchiate.] (Zoöl.)  A class of Mollusca including all those that have bivalve shells, as the clams, oysters, mussels, etc.  Note: They usually have two (rarely but one) flat, lamelliform gills on each side of the body. They have an imperfectly developed head, concealed within the shell, whence they are called Acephala. Called also Conchifera, and Pelecypoda. See Bivalve. 

LAMELLIBRANCHIATE:  Having lamellar gills; belonging to the Lamellibranchia.  -- n.  One of the Lamellibranchia. 

LAMELLICORN:  A lamellicorn insect. 

LAMELLICORNIA:  A group of lamellicorn, plant-eating beetles; -- called also Lamellicornes. 

LAMELLIFEROUS:  Bearing, or composed of, lamellæ, or thin layers, plates, or scales; foliated. 

LAMELLIFORM:  Thin and flat; scalelike; lamellar. 

LAMELLIROSTRAL:  Having a lamellate bill, as ducks and geese. 

LAMELLIROSTRES:  A group of birds embracing the Anseres and flamingoes, in which the bill is lamellate. 

LAMELLOSE:  Composed of, or having, lamellæ; lamelliform. 

LAMELY:  An a lame, crippled, disabled, or imperfect manner; as, to walk lamely; a figure lamely drawn. 

LAMENESS:  The condition or quality of being lame; as, the lameness of an excuse or an argument. 

LAMENT:  To express or feel sorrow; to weep or wail; to mourn. Jeremiah lamented for Josiah. 2 Chron. xxxv. 25. Ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice. John xvi. 20. 

LAMENT:  To mourn for; to bemoan; to bewail. One laughed at follies, one lamented crimes. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To deplore; mourn; bewail. See Deplore. 

LAMENTATION:  A book of the Old Testament attributed to the prophet Jeremiah, and taking its name from the nature of its contents. 

LAMENTED:  Mourned for; bewailed. This humble praise,lamented shade ! receive. Pope. 

LAMENTER:  One who laments. 

LAMENTIN:  See Lamantin. 

LAMENTING:  Lamentation. Lamentings heard i' the air. Shak. 

LAMENTINGLY:  In a lamenting manner. 

LAMES:  Small steel plates combined together so as to slide one upon the form a piece of armor. 

LAMETTA:  Foil or wire made of gold, silver, or brass. De Colange. 

LAMIA:  A monster capable of assuming a woman's form, who was said to devour human beings or suck their blood; a vampire; a sorceress; a with. 

LAMINA:  The blade of a leaf; the broad, expanded portion of a petal or sepal of a flower. Gray.  3. (Zoöl.)  A thin plate or scale; specif., one of the thin, flat processes composing the vane of a feather. 

LAMINABILITY:  The quality or state of being laminable. 

LAMINABLE:  Capable of being split into laminæ or thin plates, as mica; capable of being extended under pressure into a thin plate or strip. When a body can be readily extended in all directions under the hammer, it is said to be malleable; and when into fillets under the rolling press, it is said to be laminable. Ure.  LAMINAR; LAMINAL Lam"i*nar, Lam"i*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. laminaire. See Lamina]  In, or consisting of, thin plates or layers; having the form of a thin plate or lamina. 

LAMINARIA:  A genus of great seaweeds with long and broad fronds; kelp, or devil's apron. The fronds commonly grow in clusters, and are sometimes from thirty to fifty feet in length. See Illust. of Kelp. 

LAMINARIAN:  Pertaining to seaweeds of the genus Laminaria, or to that zone of the sea (from two to ten fathoms in depth) where the seaweeds of this genus grow. 

LAMINARITE:  A broad-leafed fossil alga. 

LAMINARY:  Laminar. 

LAMINATE:  Consisting of, or covered with, laminæ, or thin plates, scales, or layers, one over another; laminated. 

LAMINATE:  To separate into laminæ. 

LAMINATED:  Laminate. Laminated arch (Arch.), a timber arch made of layers of bent planks secured by treenails. 

LAMINATING:  Forming, or separating into, scales or thin layers. 

LAMINATION:  The process of laminating, or the state of being laminated. 

LAMINIFEROUS:  Having a structure consisting of laminæ, or thin layers. 

LAMINIPLANTAR:  Having the tarsus covered behind with a horny sheath continuous on both sides, as in most singing birds, except the larks. 

LAMINITIS:  Inflammation of the laminæ or fleshy plates along the coffin bone of a horse; founder. Youatt. 

LAMISH:  Somewhat lame. Wood. 

LAMM:  See Lam. 

LAMMAS:  The first day of August; -- called also Lammas day, and Lammastide.  LAMMERGEIR; LAMMERGEIER Lam"mer*geir, Lam"mer*gei`er, n. Etym: [G. lämmergeier; lamm, pl. lämmer, lamb + geier vulture.] (Zoöl.)  A very large vulture (Gypaëtus barbatus), which inhabits the mountains of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa. When full- grown it is nine or ten feet in extent of wings. It is brownish black above, with the under parts and neck rusty yellow; the forehead and crown white; the sides of the head and beard black. It feeds partly on carrion and partly on small animals, which it kills. It has the habit of carrying tortoises and marrow bones to a great height, and dropping them on stones to obtain the contents, and is therefore called bonebreaker and ossifrage. It is supposed to be the ossifrage of the Bible. Called also bearded vulture and bearded eagle. [Written also lammergeyer.] 

LAMNUNGUIA:  Same as Hyracoidea. 

LAMP:  A thin plate or lamina. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAMP:  A device or mechanism for producing light by electricity. See Incandescent lamp, under Incandescent. Æolipile lamp, a hollow ball of copper containing alcohol which is converted into vapor by a lamp beneath, so as to make a powerful blowpipe flame when the vapor is ignited. Weale.  -- Arc lamp (Elec.), a form of lamp in which the voltaic arc is used as the source of light.  -- Dëbereiner's lamp, an apparatus for the instantaneous production of a flame by the spontaneous ignition of a jet of hydrogen on being led over platinum sponge; -- named after the German chemist Döbereiner, who invented it. Called also philosopher's lamp.  -- Flameless lamp, an aphlogistic lamp.  -- Lamp burner, the part of a lamp where the wick is exposed and ignited. Knight.  -- Lamp fount, a reservoir for oil, in a lamp.  -- Lamp jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4 (l) & (n).  -- Lamp shade, a screen, as of paper, glass, or tin, for softening or obstructing the light of a lamp.  -- Lamp shell (Zoöl.), any brachiopod shell of the genus Terebratula and allied genera. The name refers to the shape, which is like that of an antique lamp. See Terebratula.  -- Safety lamp, a miner's lamp in which the flame is surrounded by fine wire gauze, preventing the kindling of dangerous explosive gases; -- called also, from Sir Humphry Davy the inventor, Davy lamp.  -- To smell of the lamp, to bear marks of great study and labor, as a literary composition. 

LAMPAD:  A lamp or candlestick. [R.] By him who 'mid the golden lampads went. Trench. 

LAMPADIST:  One who gained the prize in the lampadrome. 

LAMPADROME:  A race run by young men with lighted torches in their hands. He who reached the goal first, with his torch unextinguished, gained the prize. 

LAMPAS:  An inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof of the mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- called also lampers. 

LAMPATE:  A supposed salt of lampic acid. [Obs.] 

LAMPBLACK:  The fine impalpable soot obtained from the smoke of carbonaceous substances which have been only partly burnt, as in the flame of a smoking lamp. It consists of finely divided carbon, with sometimes a very small proportion of various impurities. It is used as an ingredient of printers' ink, and various black pigments and cements.  LAMPER EEL Lam"per eel`. (Zoöl.)  See Lamprey. 

LAMPERN:  The river lamprey (Ammocoetes, or Lampetra, fluviatilis).  Note: The name is also applied to other river lampreys. 

LAMPERS:  See Lampas. 

LAMPIC:  Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of a supposed acid. 

LAMPING:  Shining; brilliant. [Obs.] "Lamping eyes." Spenser. 

LAMPLESS:  Being without a lamp, or without light; hence, being without appreciation; dull. Your ladies' eyes are lampless to that virtue. Beau. & Fl. 

LAMPLIGHT:  Light from a lamp. This world's artificial lamplights. Owen Meredith. 

LAMPLIGHTER:  The calico bass. 

LAMPOON:  A personal satire in writing; usually, malicious and abusive censure written only to reproach and distress. Like her who missed her name in a lampoon, And grieved to find herself decayed so soon. Dryden. 

LAMPOON:  To subject to abusive ridicule expressed in writing; to make the subject of a lampoon. Ribald poets had lampooned him. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To libel; defame; satirize; lash. 

LAMPOONER:  The writer of a lampoon. "Libelers, lampooners, and pamphleteers." Tatler. 

LAMPOONRY:  The act of lampooning; a lampoon, or lampoons.  LAMP-POST Lamp"-post`, n.  A post (generally a pillar of iron) supporting a lamp or lantern for lighting a street, park, etc. 

LAMPREL:  See Lamprey. 

LAMPREY:  An eel-like marsipobranch of the genus Petromyzon, and allied genera. The lampreys have a round, sucking mouth, without jaws, but set with numerous minute teeth, and one to three larger teeth on the palate (see Illust. of Cyclostomi). There are seven small branchial openings on each side. [Written also lamper eel, lamprel, and lampron.]  Note: The common or sea lamprey of America and Europe (Petromyzon marinus), which in spring ascends rivers to spawn, is considered excellent food by many, and is sold as a market fish in some localities. The smaller river lampreys mostly belong to the genus Ammocoeles, or Lampetra, as A. fluviatilis, of Europe, and A. æpypterus of America. All lampreys attach themselves to other fishes, as parasites, by means of the suckerlike mouth. 

LAMPRON:  See Lamprey. 

LAMPYRINE:  An insect of the genus Lampyris, or family Lampyridæ. See Lampyris. 

LAMPYRIS:  A genus of coleopterous insects, including the glowworms. 

LANARKITE:  A mineral consisting of sulphate of lead, occurring either massive or in long slender prisms, of a greenish white or gray color. 

LANARY:  A place for storing wool.  LANATE; LANATED La"nate, La"na*ted,Etym: [L. lanatus, fr. lana wool, down.]  Wooly; covered with fine long hair, or hairlike filaments.  LANCASHIRE BOILER La"ca*shire boil"er  . A steam boiler having two flues which contain the furnaces and extend through the boiler from end to end. 

LANCASTERIAN:  Of or pertaining to the monitorial system of instruction followed by Joseph Lancaster, of England, in which advanced pupils in a school teach pupils below them. 

LANCE:  A small iron rod which suspends the core of the mold in casting a shell.  4. (Mil.)  An instrument which conveys the charge of a piece of ordnance and forces it home.  5. (Pyrotech.)  One of the small paper cases filled with combustible composition, which mark the outlines of a figure. Free lance, in the Middle Ages, and subsequently, a knight or roving soldier, who was free to engage for any state or commander that purchased his services; hence, a person who assails institutions or opinions on his own responsibility without regard to party lines or deference to authority.  -- Lance bucket (Cavalry), a socket attached to a saddle or stirrup strap, in which to rest the but of a lance.  -- Lance corporal, same as Lancepesade.  -- Lance knight, a lansquenet. B. Jonson.  -- Lance snake (Zoöl.), the fer-de-lance.  -- Stink-fire lance (Mil.), a kind of fuse filled with a composition which burns with a suffocating odor; -- used in the counter operations of miners. To break a lance, to engage in a tilt or contest. 

LANCE:  A slender marine fish of the genus Ammodytes, especially Ammodytes tobianus of the English coast; -- called also sand lance.  LANCEGAY; LANCEGAYE Lance"gay`, Lance"gaye`, n. Etym: [OF. lancegaie, corrupted from the same source as E. assagai, under the influence of F. lance lance. See Assagai.]  A kind of spear anciently used. Its use was prohibited by a statute of Richard II. Nares. In his hand a launcegay, A long sword by his side. Chaucer. 

LANCELET:  A small fishlike animal (Amphioxus lanceolatus), remarkable for the rudimentary condition of its organs. It is the type of the class Leptocardia. See Amphioxus, Leptocardia. 

LANCELY:  Like a lance. [R.] Sir P. Sidney. 

LANCEOLAR:  Lanceolate.  LANCEOLATE; LANCEOLATED Lan"ce*o*late, Lan"ce*o*la`ted a. Etym: [L. lanceolatus: cf. F. lancéol. See Lanceolar.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Rather narrow, tapering to a point at the apex, and sometimes at the base also; as, a lanceolate leaf. 

LANCEPESADE:  An assistant to a corporal; a private performing the duties of a corporal; -- called also lance corporal. 

LANCER:  A set of quadrilles of a certain arrangement. [Written also lanciers.] 

LANCET:  An iron bar used for tapping a melting furnace. Knight. Lancet arch (Arch.), a pointed arch, of which the width, or span, is narrow compared with the height.  -- Lancet architecture, a name given to a style of architecture, in which lancet arches are common; -- peculiar to England and 13th century.  -- Lancet fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A large, voracious, deep-sea fish (Alepidosaurus ferox), having long, sharp, lancetlike teeth. (b) The doctor, or surgeon fish. 

LANCEWOOD:  A tough, elastic wood, often used for the shafts of gigs, archery bows, fishing rods, and the like. Also, the tree which produces this wood, Duguetia Quitarensis (a native of Guiana and Cuba), and several other trees of the same family (Anonaseæ). Australian lancewood, a myrtaceous tree (Backhousia Australis). 

LANCH:  To throw, as a lance; to let fly; to launch. See Whose arm can lanch the surer bolt. Dryden & Lee. 

LANCIFEROUS:  Bearing a lance. 

LANCIFORM:  Having the form of a lance. 

LANCINATE:  To tear; to lacerate; to pierce or stab. De Quincey. 

LANCINATING:  Piercing; seeming to pierce or stab; as, lancinating pains (i.e., severe, darting pains). 

LANCINATION:  A tearing; laceration. "Lancinations of the spirit." Jer. Taylor. 

LAND:  Urine. See Lant. [Obs.] 

LAND:  The ground left unplowed between furrows; any one of several portions into which a field is divided for convenience in plowing.  8. (Law)  Any ground, soil, or earth whatsoever, as meadows, pastures, woods, etc., and everything annexed to it, whether by nature, as trees, water, etc., or by the hand of man, as buildings, fences, etc.; real estate. Kent. Bouvier. Burrill.  9. (Naut.)  The lap of the strakes in a clinker-built boat; the lap of plates in an iron vessel; -- called also landing. Knight.  10. In any surface prepared with indentations, perforations, or grooves, that part of the surface which is not so treated, as the level part of a millstone between the furrows, or the surface of the bore of a rifled gun between the grooves. Land agent, a person employed to sell or let land, to collect rents, and to attend to other money matters connected with land.  -- Land boat, a vehicle on wheels propelled by sails.  -- Land blink, a peculiar atmospheric brightness seen from sea over distant snow-covered land in arctic regions. See Ice blink.  -- Land breeze. See under Breeze.  -- Land chain. See Gunter's chain.  -- Land crab (Zoöl.), any one of various species of crabs which live much on the land, and resort to the water chiefly for the purpose of breeding. They are abundant in the West Indies and South America. Some of them grow to a large size.  -- Land fish a fish on land; a person quite out of place.Shak.  -- Land force, a military force serving on land, as distinguished from a naval force.  -- Land, ho! (Naut.), a sailor's cry in announcing sight of land.  -- Land ice, a field of ice adhering to the coast, in distinction from a floe.  -- Land leech (Zoöl.), any one of several species of blood-sucking leeches, which, in moist, tropical regions, live on land, and are often troublesome to man and beast.  -- Land measure, the system of measurement used in determining the area of land; also, a table of areas used in such measurement.  -- Land, or House, of bondage, in Bible history, Egypt; by extension, a place or condition of special oppression.  -- Land o' cakes, Scotland.  -- Land of Nod, sleep.  -- Land of promise, in Bible history, Canaan: by extension, a better country or condition of which one has expectation.  -- Land of steady habits, a nickname sometimes given to the State of Connecticut.  -- Land office, a government office in which the entries upon, and sales of, public land are registered, and other business respecting the public lands is transacted. [U.S.] -- Land pike. (Zoöl.) (a) The gray pike, or sauger. (b) The Menobranchus.  -- Land service, military service as distinguished from naval service.  -- Land rail. (Zoöl) (a) The crake or corncrake of Europe. See Crake. (b) An Australian rail (Hypotænidia Phillipensis); -- called also pectoral rail.  -- Land scrip, a certificate that the purchase money for a certain portion of the public land has been paid to the officer entitled to receive it. [U.S.] -- Land shark, a swindler of sailors on shore. [Sailors' Cant] -- Land side (a) That side of anything in or on the sea, as of an island or ship, which is turned toward the land. (b) The side of a plow which is opposite to the moldboard and which presses against the unplowed land.  -- Land snail (Zoöl.), any snail which lives on land, as distinguished from the aquatic snails are Pulmonifera, and belong to the Geophila; but the operculated land snails of warm countries are Dioecia, and belong to the Tænioglossa. See Geophila, and Helix.  -- Land spout, a descent of cloud and water in a conical form during the occurrence of a tornado and heavy rainfall on land.  -- Land steward, a person who acts for another in the management of land, collection of rents, etc.  -- Land tortoise, Land turtle (Zoöl.), any tortoise that habitually lives on dry land, as the box tortoise. See Tortoise.  -- Land warrant, a certificate from the Land Office, authorizing a person to assume ownership of a public land. [U.S.] -- Land wind. Same as Land breeze (above).  -- To make land (Naut.), to sight land. To set the land, to see by the compass how the land bears from the ship.  -- To shut in the land, to hide the land, as when fog, or an intervening island, obstructs the view. 

LAND:  To go on shore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to come to the end of a course. 

LANDAU:  A four-wheeled covered vehicle, the top of which is divided into two sections which can be let down, or thrown back, in such a manner as to make an open carriage. [Written also landaw.] 

LANDAULET:  A small landau.  LANDDROST; LANDTROST Land"drost`, n.; pl. -drosten  (#). Sometimes incorrectly Landtrost. [D., fr. land land + drost a kind of official; akin to G. truchsess.] In Cape Colony:  (a) A chief magistrate in rural districts. He was replaced in 1827 by "resident magistrates."  (b) The president of the Heemraad. 

LANDER:  A person who waits at the mouth of the shaft to receive the kibble of ore. 

LANDFALL:  Sighting or making land when at sea. A good landfall (Naut.), the sighting of land in conformity with the navigator's reckoning and expectation. 

LANDFLOOD:  An overflowing of land by river; an inundation; a freshet. Clarendon. 

LANDGRAVE:  A German nobleman of a rank corresponding to that of an earl in England and of a count in France.  Note: The title was first adopted by some German counts in the twelfth century, to distinguish themselves from the inferior counts under their jurisdiction. Three of them were princes of the empire. 

LANDGRAVINE:  The wife of a landgrave. 

LANDHOLDER:  A holder, owner, or proprietor of land.  -- Land"hold`ing, n. & a. 

LANDING:  Of, pertaining to or used for, setting, bringing, or going, on shore. Landing charges, charges or fees paid on goods unloaded from a vessel.  -- Landing net, a small, bag-shaped net, used in fishing to take the fish from the water after being hooked.  -- Landing stage, a floating platform attached at one end to a wharf in such a manner as to rise and fall with the tide, and thus facilitate passage between the wharf and a vessel lying beside the stage.  -- Landing waiter, a customhouse officer who oversees the landing of goods, etc., from vessels; a landwaiter. 

LANDING:  The level part of a staircase, at the top of a flight of stairs, or connecting one flight with another. Landing place. me as Landing, n., 2 and 3. 

LANDLADY:  In Ireland, a combination of tenant farmers and other, organized, with Charles Stewart Parnell as president, in 1879 with a view to the reduction of farm rents and a reconstruction of the land laws. -- Land"*lea`guer (#), n. -- Land"*lea`guism (#), n.  The Land League, of which Machael Davitt was the founder, originated in Mayo in August, and at a Dublin in October the organization was extended to all Ireland, with Parnell as president. Encyc. Brit. 

LANDLEAPER:  See Landlouper. 

LANDLESS:  Having no property in land. 

LANDLOCK:  To inclose, or nearly inclose, as a harbor or a vessel, with land. 

LANDLOCKED:  Confined to a fresh-water lake by reason of waterfalls or dams; -- said of fishes that would naturally seek the sea, after spawning; as, the landlocked salmon. 

LANDLOPER:  Same as Landlouper. 

LANDLORDISM:  The state of being a landlord; the characteristics of a landlord; specifically, in Great Britain, the relation of landlords to tenants, especially as regards leased agricultural lands. J. S. Mill. 

LANDLORDRY:  The state of a landlord. [Obs.] 

LANDLOUPER:  A vagabond; a vagrant. [Written also landleaper and landloper.] "Bands of landloupers." Moltey. 

LANDLOUPING:  Vagrant; wandering about. 

LANDLUBBER:  One who passes his life on land; -- so called among seamen in contempt or ridicule. 

LANDMAN:  An occupier of land. Cowell. 

LANDMARK:  Connecticut; -- a nickname alluding to the moral character of its inhabitants, implied by the rigid laws (see Blue laws) of the early period. 

LANDOWNER:  An owner of land. 

LANDOWNING:  The owning of land.  -- a.  Having property in land; of or pertaining to landowners.  LAND-POOR Land"-poor`, a.  Pecuniarily embarrassed through owning much unprofitable land. [Colloq.] 

LANDREEVE:  A subordinate officer on an extensive estate, who acts as an assistant to the steward. 

LANDSCAPIST:  A painter of landscapes. 

LANDSKIP:  A landscape. [Obs. except in poetry.] Straight my eye hath caught new pleasures, Whilst the landskip round it measures. Milton.  LANDSLIP; LANDSLIDE Land"slip`, Land"slide`, n.  1. The slipping down of a mass of land from a mountain, hill, etc.  2. The land which slips down. 

LANDSMAN:  A sailor on his first voyage. 

LANDSTHING:  See Legislature, below. 

LANDSTORM:  See Varnpligtige. 

LANDSTREIGHT:  A narrow strip of land. [Obs.] 

LANDSTURM:  That part of the reserve force in Germany which is called out last. 

LANDTAG:  The diet or legislative body; as, the Landtag of Prussia. 

LANDWAITER:  See Landing waiter, under Landing, a. 

LANDWARD:  Toward the land. 

LANDWEHR:  That part of the army, in Germany and Austria, which has completed the usual military service and is exempt from duty in time of peace, except that it is called out occasionally for drill. 

LANE:  Alone [Scot.] His lane, by himself; himself alone. 

LANE:  A passageway between fences or hedges which is not traveled as a highroad; an alley between buildings; a narrow way among trees, ras, a lane between lines of men, or through a field of ice. It is become a turn-again lane unto them which they can not go through. Tyndale. 

LANG:  Long. [Obs. or Scot.] 

LANGAHA:  A curious colubriform snake of the genus Xyphorhynchus, from Madagascar. It is brownish red, and its hose is prolonged in the form of a sharp blade. 

LANGAREY:  One of numerous species of long-winged, shrikelike birds of Australia and the East Indies, of the genus Artamus, and allied genera; called also wood swallow. 

LANGATE:  A linen roller used in dressing wounds. 

LANGDAK:  A wolf (Canis pallipes), found in India, allied to the jackal.  LANGRAGE; LANGREL Lan"grage, Lan"grel, n.  A kind of shot formerly used at sea for tearing sails and rigging. It consisted of bolts, nails, and other pieces of iron fastened together or inclosed in a canister. 

LANGRET:  A kind of loaded die. [Obs.] 

LANGRIDGE:  See Langrage.  Note: [Sometimes compounded with shot.] 

LANGSYNE:  Long since; long ago. [Scot.] 

LANGTERALOO:  An old game at cards. See Loo (a) Tatler. 

LANGUAGE:  To communicate by language; to express in language. Others were languaged in such doubtful expressions that they have a double sense. Fuller. 

LANGUAGED:  Having a language; skilled in language; -- chiefly used in composition. " Manylanguaged nations." Pope. 

LANGUAGELESS:  Lacking or wanting language; speechless; silent. Shak. 

LANGUED:  Tongued; having the tongue visible. Lions . . . represented as armed and langued gules. Cussans.  LANGUE D'OC Langue` d'oc". Etym: [F., language of oc yes.]  The dialect, closely akin to French, formerly spoken south of the Loire (in which the word for "yes" was oc); Provencal.  LANGUE D'OIL Langue` d'oïl". Etym: [F., language of oïl yes.]  The dialect formerly spoken north of the Loire (in which the word for "yes" was oïl, F. oui). 

LANGUENTE:  In a languishing manner; pathetically. 

LANGUISH:  To cause to dr [Obs.] Shak. Dryden. 

LANGUISH:  See Languishiment. [Obs. or Poetic] What, of death, too, That rids our dogs of languish Shak. And the blue languish of soft Allia's eye. Pope. 

LANGUISHER:  One who languishes. 

LANGUISHINGLY:  In a languishing manner. 

LANGUISHNESS:  Languishment. [Obs.] 

LANGUOROUS:  Producing, or tending to produce, languor; characterized by languor. [Obs. or Poetic] Whom late I left in languorous constraint. Spenser. To wile the length from languorous hours, and draw The sting from pain. Tennyson. 

LANGURE:  To languish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LANGYA:  One of several species of East Indian and Asiatic fresh-water fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, remarkable for their power of living out of water, and for their tenacity of life; -- called also walking fishes. 

LANIARD:  See Lanyard. 

LANIARIFORM:  Shaped like a laniary, or canine, tooth. Owen. 

LANIARY:  Lacerating or tearing; as, the laniary canine teeth. 

LANIARY:  A laniary, or canine, tooth. 

LANIATE:  To tear in pieces. [R.] 

LANIATION:  A tearing in pieces. [R.] 

LANIFEROUS:  Bearing or producing wool. 

LANIFICAL:  Working in wool. 

LANIFICE:  Anything made of wool. [Obs.] Bacon. 

LANIGEROUS:  Bearing or producing wool. 

LANIOID:  Of or pertaining to the shrikes (family Laniidæ). 

LANK:  To become lank; to make lank. [Obs.] Shak. G. Fletcher. 

LANKINESS:  The condition or quality or being lanky. 

LANKLY:  In a lank manner. 

LANKNESS:  The state or quality of being lank. 

LANKY:  Somewhat lank. Thackeray. The lanky Dinka, nearly seven feet in height. The Century.  LANNER; LANNERET Lan"ner, n. f. Lan"ner*et, n. m. Etym: [F. lanier, OF. also, lasnier. Cf. Lanyard.] (Zoöl.)  A long-tailed falcon (Falco lanarius), of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa, resembling the American prairie falcon. 

LANOLIN:  A peculiar fatlike body, made up of cholesterin and certain fatty acids, found in feathers, hair, wool, and keratin tissues generally.  Note: Under the same name, it is prepared from wool for commercial purposes, and forms an admirable basis for ointments, being readily absorbed by the skin. 

LANSEH:  The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansium domesticum). It has a fleshy pulp, with an agreeable subacid taste. Balfour. 

LANT:  Urine. [Prov. Eng.] Nares. 

LANT:  Any one of several species of small, slender, marine fishes of the genus Ammedytes. The common European species (A. tobianus) and the American species (A. Americanus) live on sandy shores, buried in the sand, and are caught in large quantities for bait. Called also launce, and sand eel. 

LANT:  See Lanterloo. [Obs.] Halliwell.  LANTANIUM; LANTANUM Lan*ta"ni*um, Lan"ta*num, n. (Chem.)  See Lanthanum. 

LANTANURIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic acid of the uric acid group, obtained by the decomposition of allantoin, and usually called allanturic acid. 

LANTERLOO:  An old name of loo (a). 

LANTERN:  A lantern pinion or trundle wheel. See Lantern pinion (below).  4. (Steam Engine)  A kind of cage inserted in a stuffing box and surrounding a piston rod, to separate the packing into two parts and form a chamber between for the reception of steam, etc. ; -- called also lantern brass.  5. (Founding)  A perforated barrel to form a core upon.  6. (Zoöl.)  See Aristotle's lantern.  Note: Fig. 1 represents a hand lantern; fig. 2, an arm lantern; fig. 3, a breast lantern; -- so named from the positions in which they are carried. Dark lantern, a lantern with a single opening, which may be closed so as to conceal the light; -- called also bull's-eye.  -- Lantern fly, Lantern carrier (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large, handsome, hemipterous insects of the genera Laternaria, Fulgora, and allies, of the family Fulgoridæ. The largest species is Laternaria phosphorea of Brazil. The head of some species has been supposed to be phosphorescent.  -- Lantern jaws, long, thin jaws; hence, a thin visage.  -- Lantern pinion, Lantern wheel (Mach.), a kind of pinion or wheel having cylindrical bars or trundles, instead of teeth, inserted at their ends in two parallel disks or plates; -- so called as resembling a lantern in shape; -- called also wallower, or trundle.  -- Lantern shell (Zoöl.), any translucent, marine, bivalve shell of the genus Anatina, and allied genera.  -- Magic lantern, an optical instrument consisting of a case inclosing a light, and having suitable lenses in a lateral tube, for throwing upon a screen, in a darkened room or the like, greatly magnified pictures from slides placed in the focus of the outer lens. 

LANTERN:  To furnish with a lantern; as, to lantern a lighthouse.  LANTERN-JAWED Lan"tern-jawed`, a.  Having lantern jaws or long, thin jaws; as, a lantern-jawed person. 

LANTHANITE:  Hydrous carbonate of lanthanum, found in tabular while crystals. 

LANTHANUM:  A rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied to aluminium. It occurs in certain rare minerals, as cerite, gadolinite, orthite, etc., and was so named from the difficulty of separating it from cerium, didymium, and other rare elements with which it is usually associated. Atomic weight 138.5. Symbol La. [Formerly written also lanthanium.] 

LANTHOPINE:  An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted as a white crystalline substance. 

LANTHORN:  See Lantern. [Obs.]  LANUGINOSE; LANUGINOUS La*nu"gi*nose`, La*nu"gi*nous, a. Etym: [L. lanuginosus, fr. lanugo, -ginis, woolly substance, down, fr. lana wool: cf. F. lanugineux.]  Covered with down, or fine soft hair; downy. 

LANUGO:  The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammal fetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth. 

LANYARD:  A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships; as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp., pieces passing through the dead-eyes, and used to extend shrouds, stays, etc.  2. (Mil.)  A strong cord, about twelve feet long, with an iron hook at one end a handle at the other, used in firing cannon with a friction tube. 

LANYER:  See Lanier.  LAOCOON; LAOCOOEN La*oc"o*ön, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.  1. (Class. Myth.)  A priest of Apollo, during the Trojan war. (See 2.)  2. (Sculp.)  A marble group in the Vatican at Rome, representing the priest Laocoön, with his sons, infolded in the coils of two serpents, as described by Virgil. 

LAODICEAN:  Of or pertaining to Laodicea, a city in Phrygia Major; like the Christians of Laodicea; lukewarm in religion. Rev. iii. 14-16. 

LAP:  The amount by which a slide valve at its half stroke overlaps a port in the seat, being equal to the distance the valve must move from its mid stroke position in order to begin to open the port. Used alone, lap refers to outside lap. See Outside lap (below).  6. The state or condition of being in part extended over or by the side of something else; or the extent of the overlapping; as, the second boat got a lap of half its length on the leader.  7. One circuit around a race track, esp. when the distance is a small fraction of a mile; as, to run twenty laps; to win by three laps. See Lap, to fold, 2.  8. In card playing and other games, the points won in excess of the number necessary to complete a game; -- so called when they are counted in the score of the following game.  9. (Cotton Manuf.)  A sheet, layer, or bat, of cotton fiber prepared for the carding machine.  10. (Mach.)  A piece of brass, lead, or other soft metal, used to hold a cutting or polishing powder in cutting glass, gems, and the like, or in polishing cutlery, etc. It is usually in the form of wheel or disk, which revolves on a vertical axis. Lap joint, a joint made by one layer, part, or piece, overlapping another, as in the scarfing of timbers.  -- Lap weld, a lap joint made by welding together overlapping edges or ends.  -- Inside lap (Steam Engine), lap of the valve with respect to the exhaust port.  -- Outside lap, lap with respect to the admission, or steam, port. 

LAP:  To lay together one over another, as fleeces or slivers for further working. To lap boards, shingles, etc., to lay one partly over another.  -- To lap timbers, to unite them in such a way as to preserve the same breadth and depth throughout, as by scarfing. Weale. 

LAP:  To be turned or folded; to lie partly upon or by the side of something, or of one another; as, the cloth laps back; the boats lap; the edges lap. The upper wings are opacous; at their hinder ends, where they lap over, transparent, like the wing of a flay. Grew. 

LAP:  To take into the mouth with the tongue; to lick up with a quick motion of the tongue. They 'II take suggestion as a cat laps milk. Shak. 

LAPAROCELE:  A rupture or hernia in the lumbar regions. 

LAPAROTOMY:  A cutting through the walls of the abdomen, as in the Cæsarean section. 

LAPBOARD:  A board used on the lap as a substitute for a table, as by tailors. 

LAPDOG:  A small dog fondled in the lap. 

LAPEL:  That part of a garment which is turned back; specifically, the lap, or fold, of the front of a coat in continuation of collar. [Written also lappel and lapelle.] 

LAPELLED:  Furnished with lapels. 

LAPFUL:  As much as the lap can contain. 

LAPICIDE:  A stonecutter. [Obs.] 

LAPIDARIAN:  Of or pertaining to stone; inscribed on stone; as, a lapidarian record. 

LAPIDARIOUS:  Consisting of stones. 

LAPIDATE:  To stone. [Obs.] 

LAPIDATION:  The act of stoning. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

LAPIDEOUS:  Of the nature of stone; [Obs.] Ray. 

LAPIDESCENT:  Undergoing the process of becoming stone; having the capacity of being converted into stone; having the quality of petrifying bodies. 

LAPIDESCENT:  Any substance which has the quality of petrifying other bodies, or of converting or being converted into stone.  LAPIDIFIC; LAPIDIFICAL Lap`i*dif"ic, Lap`i*dif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. lapis, -idis, stone + facere to make: cf. F. lapidifique.]  Forming or converting into stone. 

LAPIDIFICATION:  The act or process of lapidifying; fossilization; petrifaction. 

LAPIDIFY:  To convert into stone or stony material; to petrify. 

LAPIDIFY:  To become stone or stony 

LAPIDIST:  A lapidary. Ray. 

LAPILLATION:  The state of being, or the act of making, stony. 

LAPILLI:  Volcanic ashes, consisting of small, angular, stony fragments or particles. 

LAPIS:  A stone. Lapis calaminaris (. Etym: [NL.] (Min.) Calamine.  -- Lapis infernalis (. Etym: [L.] Fused nitrate of silver; lunar caustic.  LAPIS LAZULI La"pis laz"u*li. (Min.)  An albuminous mineral of a rich blue color. Same as Lazuli, which see.  LAP-JOINTED Lap"-joint`ed, a.  Having a lap joint, or lap joints, as many kinds of woodwork and metal work. 

LAPLANDER:  A native or inhabitant of Lapland; -- called also Lapp. 

LAPLANDISH:  Of or pertaining to Lapland. 

LAPLING:  One who has been fondled to excess; one fond of ease and sensual delights; -- a term of contempt. 

LAPP:  Same as Laplander. Cf. Lapps. 

LAPPACEOUS:  Resembling the capitulum of burdock; covered with forked points. 

LAPPER:  One who takes up food or liquid with his tongue. 

LAPPET:  A small decorative fold or flap, esp, of lace or muslin, in a garment or headdress. Swift. Lappet moth (Zoöl.), one of several species of bombycid moths, which have stout, hairy caterpillars, flat beneath. Two common American species (Gastropacha Americana, and Tolype velleda) feed upon the apple tree. 

LAPPET:  To decorate with, or as with, a lappet. [R.] Landor. 

LAPPIC:  Of or pertaining to Lapland, or the Lapps.  -- n.  The language of the Lapps. See Lappish. 

LAPPING:  A kind of machine blanket or wrapping material used by calico printers. Ure. Lapping engine, Lapping machine (Textile Manuf.), A machine for forming fiber info a lap. See its Lap, 9. 

LAPPISH:  Of or pertaining to the Lapps; Laplandish.  -- n.  The language spoken by the Lapps in Lapland. It is related to the Finnish and Hungarian, and is not an Aryan language.  LAPPONIAN; LAPPONIC Lap*po"ni*an, Lap*pon"ic, a.  Laplandish; Lappish. 

LAPPS:  A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northern parts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia. 

LAPSABLE:  Lapsible. Cudworth. 

LAPSE:  The termination of a right or privilege through neglect to exercise it within the limited time, or through failure of some contingency; hence, the devolution of a right or privilege.  4. (Theol.)  A fall or apostasy. 

LAPSIBLE:  Liable to lapse. 

LAPSIDED:  See Lopsided. 

LAPSTONE:  A stone for the lap, on which shoemakers beat leather.  LAPSTREAK; LAPSTRAKE Lap"streak`, Lap"strake`, a.  Made with boards whose edges lap one over another; clinker- built; -- said of boats. 

LAPUTAN:  Of or pertaining to Laputa, an imaginary flying island described in Gulliver's Travels as the home of chimerical philosophers. Hence, fanciful; preposterous; absurd in science or philosophy. "Laputan ideas." G. Eliot.  LAP-WELDED Lap"-weld`ed, a  Having edges or ends united by a lap weld; as, a lap-welded pipe. 

LAPWING:  A small European bird of the Plover family (Vanellus cristatus, or V. vanellus). It has long and broad wings, and is noted for its rapid, irregular fight, upwards, downwards, and in circles. Its back is coppery or greenish bronze. Its eggs are the "plover's eggs" of the London market, esteemed a delicacy. It is called also peewit, dastard plover, and wype. The gray lapwing is the Squatarola cinerea. 

LAPWORK:  Work in which one part laps over another. Grew. 

LAQUAY:  A lackey. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

LAQUEAR:  A lacunar. 

LAQUEARY:  Using a noose, as a gladiator. [Obs. or R.] Retiary and laqueary combatants. Sir T. Browne. 

LAR:  A tutelary deity; a deceased ancestor regarded as a protector of the family. The domestic Lares were the tutelar deities of a house; household gods. Hence, Eng.: Hearth or dwelling house. Nor will she her dear Lar forget, Victorious by his benefit. Lovelace. The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint. Milton. Looking backward in vain toward their Lares and lands. Longfellow. 

LAR:  A species of gibbon (Hylobates lar), found in Burmah. Called also white-handed gibbon.  LARAMIE GROUP Lar"a*mie group`. (Geol.)  An extensive series of strata, principally developed in the Rocky Mountain region, as in the Laramie Mountains, and formerly supposed to be of the Tertiary age, but now generally regarded as Cretaceous, or of intermediate and transitional character. It contains beds of lignite, often valuable for coal, and is hence also called the lignitic group. See Chart of Geology. 

LARBOARD:  The left-hand side of a ship to one on board facing toward the bow; port; -- opposed to Ant: starboard.  Note: Larboard is a nearly obsolete term, having been superseded by port to avoid liability of confusion with starboard, owing to similarity of sound. 

LARBOARD:  On or pertaining to the left-hand side of a vessel; port; as, the larboard quarter.  LARCENER; LARCENIST Lar"ce*ner, Lar"ce*nist, n.  One who commits larceny. 

LARCENOUS:  Having the character of larceny; as, a larcenous act; committing larceny. "The larcenous and burglarious world." Sydney Smith.  -- Lar"ce*nous*ly, adv. 

LARCENY:  The unlawful taking and carrying away of things personal with intent to deprive the right owner of the same; theft. Cf. Embezzlement. Grand larceny and Petit larceny are distinctions having reference to the nature or value of the property stolen. They are abolished in England.  -- Mixed, or Compound, larceny, that which, under statute, includes in it the aggravation of a taking from a building or the person.  -- Simple larceny, that which is not accompanied with any aggravating circumstances. 

LARCH:  A genus of coniferous trees, having deciduous leaves, in fascicles (see Illust. of Fascicle).  Note: The European larch is Larix Europæa. The American or black larch is L. Americana, the hackmatack or tamarack. The trees are generally of a drooping, graceful appearance. 

LARCHEN:  Of or pertaining to the larch. Keats. 

LARD:  To grow fat. [Obs.] 

LARDACEIN:  A peculiar amyloid substance, colored blue by iodine and sulphuric acid, occurring mainly as an abnormal infiltration into the spleen, liver, etc. 

LARDACEOUS:  Consisting of, or resembling, lard. Lardaceous degeneration (Med.), amyloid degeneration. 

LARDER:  A room or place where meat and other articles of food are kept before they are cooked. Shak. 

LARDERER:  One in charge of the larder. 

LARDERY:  A larder. [Obs.]  LARDON; LARDOON Lar"don, Lar*doon", n. Etym: [F. lardon, fr. lard lard.]  A bit of fat pork or bacon used in larding. 

LARDRY:  A larder. [Obs.] 

LARDY:  Containing, or resembling, lard; of the character or consistency of lard. 

LARE:  Lore; learning. [Obs.] 

LARE:  Pasture; feed. See Lair. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LARE:  To feed; to fatten. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

LARES:  See 1st Lar. 

LARGE:  Crossing the line of a ship's course in a favorable direction; -- said of the wind when it is abeam, or between the beam and the quarter. At large. (a) Without restraint or confinement; as, to go at large; to be left at large. (b) Diffusely; fully; in the full extent; as, to discourse on a subject at large.  -- Common at large. See under Common, n.  -- Electors at large, Representative at large, electors, or a representative, as in Congress, chosen to represent the whole of a State, in distinction from those chosen to represent particular districts in a State. [U. S.] -- To give, go, run, or sail large (Naut.), to have the wind crossing the direction of a vessel's course in such a way that the sails feel its full force, and the vessel gains its highest speed. See Large, a., 8.  Syn.  -- Big; bulky; huge; capacious; comprehensive; ample; abundant; plentiful; populous; copious; diffusive; liberal. 

LARGE:  Freely; licentiously. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LARGE:  A musical note, formerly in use, equal to two longs, four breves, or eight semibreves.  LARGE-ACRED Large"-a`cred, a.  Possessing much land.  LARGE-HANDED Large"-hand`ed, a.  Having large hands, Fig.: Taking, or giving, in large quantities; rapacious or bountiful.  LARGE-HEARTED Large"-heart`ed, a.  Having a large or generous heart or disposition; noble; liberal.  -- Large"-heart`ed*ness, n. 

LARGELY:  In a large manner. Dryden. Milton. 

LARGENESS:  The quality or state of being large.  LARGESS; LARGESSE Lar"gess, Lar"gesse, n. Etym: [F. largesse, fr. large. See Large, a.]  1. Liberality; generosity; bounty. [Obs.] Fulfilled of largesse and of all grace. Chaucer.  2. A present; a gift; a bounty bestowed. The heralds finished their proclamation with their usual cry of "Largesse, largesse, gallant knights!" and gold and silver pieces were showered on them from the galleries. Sir W. Scott. 

LARGET:  A sport piece of bar iron for rolling into a sheet; a small billet. 

LARGHETTO:  Somewhat slow or slowly, but not so slowly as largo, and rather more so than andante. 

LARGIFICAL:  Generous; ample; liberal. [Obs.] 

LARGIFLUOUS:  Flowing copiously. [Obs.] 

LARGILOQUENT:  Grandiloquent. [Obs.] 

LARGISH:  Somewhat large. [Colloq.] 

LARGITION:  The bestowment of a largess or gift. [Obs.] 

LARGO:  Slow or slowly; -- more so than adagio; next in slowness to grave, which is also weighty and solemn.  -- n.  A movement or piece in largo time. 

LARIAT:  A long, slender rope made of hemp or strips of hide, esp. one with a noose; -- used as a lasso for catching cattle, horses, etc., and for picketing a horse so that he can graze without wandering. [Mexico & Western U.S.] 

LARIAT:  To secure with a lariat fastened to a stake, as a horse or mule for grazing; also, to lasso or catch with a lariat. [Western U.S.] 

LARINE:  Of or pertaining to the Gull family (Laridæ). 

LARIXINIC:  Of, or derived from, the larch (Larix); as, larixinic acid. 

LARK:  A frolic; a jolly time. [Colloq.] Dickens. 

LARK:  To sport; to frolic. [Colloq.] 

LARK:  Any one numerous species of singing birds of the genus Alauda and allied genera (family Alaudidæ). They mostly belong to Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa. In America they are represented by the shore larks, or horned by the shore larks, or horned larks, of the genus Otocoris. The true larks have holaspidean tarsi, very long hind claws, and usually, dull, sandy brown colors.  Note: The European skylark, or lark of the poets (Alauda arvensis), is of a brown mottled color, and is noted for its clear and sweet song, uttered as it rises and descends almost perpendicularly in the air. It is considered a table delicacy, and immense numbers are killed for the markets. Other well-known European species are the crested, or tufted, lark (Alauda cristata), and the wood lark (A. arborea). The pipits, or titlarks, of the genus Anthus (family Motacillidæ) are often called larks. See Pipit. The American meadow larks, of the genus Sturnella, are allied to the starlings. See Meadow Lark. The Australian bush lark is Mirafra Horsfieldii. See Shore lark. Lark bunting (Zoöl.), a fringilline bird (Calamospiza melanocorys) found on the plains of the Western United States.  -- Lark sparrow (Zoöl.), a sparrow (Chondestes grammacus), found in the Mississippi Valley and the Western United States. 

LARK:  To catch larks; as, to go larking.  LARK-COLORED Lark"-col`ored, a.  Having the sandy brown color of the European larks. 

LARKER:  Indian cress. 

LARKSPUR:  A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Delphinium), having showy flowers, and a spurred calyx. They are natives of the North Temperate zone. The commonest larkspur of the gardens is D. Consolida. The flower of the bee larkspur (D. elatum) has two petals bearded with yellow hairs, and looks not unlike a bee. 

LARMIER:  See Tearpit. 

LAROID:  Like or belonging to the Gull family (Laridæ). 

LARRIKIN:  A rowdy street loafer; a rowdyish or noisy ill-bred fellow; -- variously applied, as to a street blackguard, a street Arab, a youth given to horse-play, etc. [Australia & Eng.] -- a.  Rowdy; rough; disorderly. [Australia & Eng.]  Mobs of unruly larrikins. Sydney Daily Telegraph.   Larrikin is often popularly explained by the following anecdote (which is without foundation): An Irish policeman at Melbourne, on bringing a notorious rough into court, was asked by the magistrate what the prisoner had been doing, and replied, "He was a-larrikin' [i. e., a-larking] about the streets." 

LARRUP:  To beat or flog soundly. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Forby. 

LARRY:  Same as Lorry, or Lorrie. 

LARUM:  , See Alarum, and Alarm. 

LARVA:  Any young insect from the time that it hatches from the egg until it becomes a pupa, or chrysalis. During this time it usually molts several times, and may change its form or color each time. The larvæ of many insects are much like the adults in form and habits, but have no trace of wings, the rudimentary wings appearing only in the pupa stage. In other groups of insects the larvæ are totally unlike the parents in structure and habits, and are called caterpillars, grubs, maggots, etc.  2. (Zoöl.)  The early, immature form of any animal when more or less of a metamorphosis takes place, before the assumption of the mature shape. 

LARVAL:  Of or pertaining to a larva. 

LARVALIA:  An order of Tunicata, including Appendicularia, and allied genera; -- so called because certain larval features are retained by them through life. Called also Copelata. See Appendicularia. 

LARVATE:  Masked; hence, concealed; obscure; -- applied in medicine to doubtful cases of some diseases; as, larvate pneumonis; larvate epilepsy. 

LARVATED:  Masked; clothed as with a mask. 

LARVE:  A larva. 

LARVIFORM:  Having the form or structure of a larva. 

LARVIPAROUS:  Depositing living larvæ, instead of eggs; -- said of certain insects. 

LARY:  A guillemot; -- called also lavy. [Prov. Eng.] 

LARYNGEAL:  Of or pertaining to the larynx; adapted to operations on the larynx; as, laryngeal forceps. 

LARYNGEAN:  See Laryngeal. 

LARYNGECTOMY:  Excision of the larynx. 

LARYNGISMUS:  A spasmodic state of the glottis, giving rise to contraction or closure of the opening. 

LARYNGITIS:  Inflammation of the larynx. 

LARYNGOGRAPH:  An instrument for recording the larynx movements in speech. 

LARYNGOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to laryngology. 

LARYNGOLOGIST:  One who applies himself to laryngology. 

LARYNGOLOGY:  Systematized knowledge of the action and functions of the larynx; in pathology, the department which treats of the diseases of the larynx. 

LARYNGOPHONY:  The sound of the voice as heard through a stethoscope when the latter is placed upon the larynx. 

LARYNGOSCOPE:  An instrument, consisting of an arrangement of two mirrors, for reflecting light upon the larynx, and for examining its image. 

LARYNGOSCOPIC:  Of or pertaining to the inspection of the larynx. 

LARYNGOSCOPIST:  One skilled in laryngoscopy. 

LARYNGOSCOPY:  The art of using the laryngoscope; investigations made with the laryngoscope. 

LARYNGOTOME:  An instrument for performing laryngotomy. 

LARYNGOTOMY:  The operation of cutting into the larynx, from the outside of the neck, for assisting respiration when obstructed, or for removing foreign bodies. 

LARYNGOTRACHEAL:  Pertaining to both larynx and trachea; as, the laryngotracheal cartilage in the frog. 

LARYNGOTRACHEOTOMY:  The operation of cutting into the larynx and the upper part of the trachea, -- a frequent operation for obstruction to breathing. 

LARYNX:  The expanded upper end of the windpipe or trachea, connected with the hyoid bone or cartilage. It contains the vocal cords, which produce the voice by their vibrations, when they are stretched and a current of air passes between them. The larynx is connected with the pharynx by an opening, the glottis, which, in mammals, is protected by a lidlike epiglottis.  Note: In the framework of the human larynx, the thyroid cartilage, attached to the hyoid bone, makes the protuberance on the front of the neck known as Adam's apple, and is articulated below to the ringlike cricoid cartilage. This is narrow in front and high behind, where, within the thyroid, it is surmounted by the two arytenoid cartilages, from which the vocal cords pass forward to be attached together to the front of the thyroid. See Syrinx. 

LAS:  A lace. See Lace. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAS:  Less. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LASCAR:  A native sailor, employed in European vessels; also, a menial employed about arsenals, camps, camps, etc.; a camp follower. [East Indies] 

LASCIOUS:  Loose; lascivious. [Obs.] "To depaint lascious wantonness." Holland. 

LASCIVIENCY:  Lasciviousness; wantonness. [Obs.] 

LASCIVIENT:  Lascivious. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

LASERWORT:  Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Laserpitium, of several species (as L. glabrum, and L. siler), the root of which yields a resinous substance of a bitter taste. The genus is mostly European. 

LASH:  ,. v. i. To ply the whip; to strike; to uttercensure or sarcastic language. To laugh at follies, or to lash at vice. Dryden. To lash out, to strike out wildly or furiously. 

LASH:  To bind with a rope, cord, thong, or chain, so as to fasten; as, to lash something to a spar; to lash a pack on a horse's back. 

LASHER:  One who whips or lashes. 

LASHING:  The act of one who, or that which, lashes; castigation; chastisement. South. Lashing out, a striking out; also, extravagance. 

LASHING:  See 2d Lasher. 

LASK:  A diarrhea or flux. [Obs.] Holland. 

LASKET:  latching. 

LASS:  A youth woman; a girl; a sweetheart. 

LASSE:  Less. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LASSIE:  A young girl; a lass. [Scot.] 

LASSITUDE:  A condition of the body, or mind, when its voluntary functions are performed with difficulty, and only by a strong exertion of the will; languor; debility; weariness. The corporeal instruments of action being strained to a high pitch . . . will soon feel a lassitude. Barrow. 

LASSLORN:  Forsaken by a lass. Shak. 

LASSO:  A rope or long thong of leather with, a running noose, used for catching horses, cattle, etc. Lasso cell (Zoöl.), one of a peculiar kind of defensive and offensive stinging cells, found in great numbers in all coelenterates, and in a few animals of other groups. They are most highly developed in the tentacles of jellyfishes, hydroids, and Actiniæ. Each of these cells is filled with, fluid, and contains a long, slender, often barbed, hollow thread coiled up within it. When the cell contracts the thread is quickly ejected, being at the same time turned inside out. The thread is able to penetrate the flesh of various small, soft-bodied animals, and carries a subtle poison by which they are speedily paralyzed and killed. The threads, at the same time, hold the prey in position, attached to the tentacles. Some of the jellyfishes, as the Portuguese man-of-war, and Cyanea, are able to penetrate the human skin, and inflict painful stings in the same way. Called also nettling cell, cnida, cnidocell. 

LASSO:  To catch with a lasso. 

LAST:  of Last, to endure, contracted from lasteth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAST:  A wooden block shaped like the human foot, on which boots and shoes are formed. The cobbler is not to go beyond his last. L'Estrange. Darning last, a smooth, hard body, often egg-shaped, put into a stocking to preserve its shape in darning. 

LAST:  To shape with a last; to fasten or fit to a last; to place smoothly on a last; as, to last a boot. 

LASTE:  of Last, to endure. Chaucer. 

LASTER:  A workman whose business it is to shape boots or shoes, or place leather smoothly, on lasts; a tool for stretching leather on a last. 

LASTERY:  A red color.[Obs.] Spenser. 

LASTING:  Existing or continuing a long while; enduring; as, a lasting good or evil; a lasting color.  Syn.  -- Durable; permanent; undecaying; perpetual; unending.  -- Lasting, Permanent, Durable. Lasting commonly means merely continuing in existence; permanent carries the idea of continuing in the same state, position, or course; durable means lasting in spite of agencies which tend to destroy. 

LASTING:  In a lasting manner. 

LASTINGLY:  In a lasting manner. 

LAT:  To let; to allow. [Obs.] Chaucer.  LATA; LATAH La"ta, La"tah, n. [Malay.]  A convulsive tic or hysteric neurosis prevalent among Malays, similar to or identical with miryachit and jumping disease, the person affected performing various involuntary actions and making rapid inarticulate ejaculations in imitation of the actions and words of another person. 

LATAKIA:  A superior quality of Turkish smoking tobacco, so called from the place where produced, the ancient Laodicea. 

LATCH:  To smear; to anoint. [Obs.] Shak. 

LATCH:  A latching.  4. A crossbow. [Obs.] Wright. 

LATCHET:  The string that fastens a shoe; a shoestring. 

LATCHING:  A loop or eye formed on the head rope of a bonnet, by which it is attached to the foot of a sail; -- called also latch and lasket. [Usually in pl.] 

LATCHKEY:  A key used to raise, or throw back, the latch of a door, esp. a night latch. 

LATCHSTRING:  A string for raising the latch of a door by a person outside. It is fastened to the latch and passed through a hole above it in the door. To find the latchstring out, to meet with hospitality; to be welcome. (Intrusion is prevented by drawing in the latchstring.) [Colloq. U.S.] 

LATED:  Belated; too late. [Obs.] Shak. 

LATEEN:  Of or pertaining to a peculiar rig used in the Mediterranean and adjacent waters, esp. on the northern coast of Africa. See below. Lateen sail. Etym: [F. voile latine a sail in the shape of a right- angled triangle; cf. It. & Sp. vela latina; properly Latin sail. See Latin.] (Naut.) A triangular sail, extended by a long yard, which is slung at about one fourth of its length from the lower end, to a low mast, this end being brought down at the tack, while the other end is elevated at an angle or about forty-five degrees; -- used in small boats, feluccas, xebecs, etc., especially in the Mediterranean and adjacent waters. Some lateen sails have also a boom on the lower side. 

LATELY:  Not long ago; recently; as, he has lately arrived from Italy. 

LATENCE:  Latency. Coleridge. 

LATENCY:  The state or quality of being latent. To simplify the discussion, I shall distinguish three degrees of this latency. Sir W. Hamilton. 

LATENESS:  The state, condition, or quality, of being late; as, the lateness of his arrival; the lateness of the hour; the lateness of the season. 

LATENT:  Not visible or apparent; hidden; springs of action. The evils latent in the most promising contrivances are provided for as they arise. Burke. Latent buds (bot.), buds which remain undeveloped or dormant for a long time, but may at length grow. Latent heat (Physics), that quantity of heat which disappears or becomes concealed in a body while producing some change in it other than rise of temperature, as fusion, evaporation, or expansion, the quantity being constant for each particular body and for each species of change.  -- Latent period. (a) (Med.) The regular time in which a disease is supposed to be existing without manifesting itself. (b) (Physiol.) One of the phases in a simple muscular contraction, in which invisible preparatory changes are taking place in the nerve and muscle. (c) (Biol.) One of those periods or resting stages in the development of the ovum, in which development is arrested prior to renewed activity. 

LATENTLY:  In a secret or concealed manner; invisibly. 

LATER:  A brick or tile. Knight. 

LATER:  Compar. of Late, a. & adv. 

LATERAD:  Toward the side; away from the mesial plane; -- opposed to mesiad. 

LATERAL:  Lying at, or extending toward, the side; away from the mesial plane; external; -- opposed to mesial.  3. Directed to the side; as, a lateral view of a thing. Lateral cleavage (Crystallog.), cleavage parallel to the lateral planes.  -- Lateral equation (Math.), an equation of the first degree. [Obs.] -- Lateral line (Anat.), in fishes, a line of sensory organs along either side of the body, often marked by a distinct line of color.  -- Lateral pressure or stress (Mech.), a pressure or stress at right angles to the length, as of a beam or bridge; -- distinguished from longitudinal pressure or stress.  -- Lateral strength (Mech.), strength which resists a tendency to fracture arising from lateral pressure.  -- Lateral system (Bridge Building), the system of horizontal braces (as between two vertical trusses) by which lateral stiffness is secured. 

LATERALITY:  The state or condition of being lateral. 

LATERALLY:  By the side; sidewise; toward, or from, the side. 

LATERAN:  The church and palace of St. John Lateran, the church being the cathedral church of Rome, and the highest in rank of all churches in the Catholic world.  Note: The name is said to have been derived from that of the Laterani family, who possessed a palace on or near the spot where the church now stands. In this church several ecclesiastical councils, hence called Lateran councils, have been held. 

LATERED:  Inclined to delay; dilatory. [Obs.] "When a man is too latered." Chaucer. 

LATERIFOLIOUS:  Growing from the stem by the side of a leaf; as, a laterifolious flower. 

LATERITE:  An argillaceous sandstone, of a red color, and much seamed; -- found in India. 

LATERITIC:  consisting of, containing, or characterized by, laterite; as, lateritic formations. 

LATERITIC:  Consisting of, containing, or characterized by, laterite; as, lateritic formations. 

LATERITIOUS:  Like bricks; of the color of red bricks. Lateritious sediment (Med.), a sediment in urine resembling brick dust, observed after the crises of fevers, and at the termination of gouty paroxysms. It usually consists of uric acid or urates with some coloring matter. 

LATES:  A genus of large percoid fishes, of which one species (Lates Niloticus) inhabits the Nile, and another (L. calcarifer 

LATESCENCE:  A slight withdrawal from view or knowledge. Sir W. Hamilton. 

LATESCENT:  Slightly withdrawn from view or knowledge; as, a latescent meaning. Sir W. Hamilton. 

LATEWAKE:  See Lich wake, under Lich. 

LATEWARD:  Somewhat late; backward. [Obs.] "Lateward lands." Holland. 

LATEX:  A milky or colored juice in certain plants in cavities (called latex cells or latex tubes). It contains the peculiar principles of the plants, whether aromatic, bitter, or acid, and in many instances yields caoutchouc upon coagulation. 

LATH:  A thin, narrow strip of wood, nailed to the rafters, studs, or floor beams of a building, for the purpose of supporting the tiles, plastering, etc. A corrugated metallic strip or plate is sometimes used. Lath brick, a long, slender brick, used in making the floor on which malt is placed in the drying kiln. Lath nail a slender nail for fastening laths. 

LATH:  To cover or line with laths. 

LATHE:  Formerly, a part or division of a county among the Anglo- Saxons. At present it consists of four or five hundreds, and is confined to the county of Kent. [Written also lath.] Brande & C. 

LATHE:  A machine for turning, that is, for shaping articles of wood, metal, or other material, by causing them to revolve while acted upon by a cutting tool.  3. The movable swing frame of a loom, carrying the reed for separating the warp threads and beating up the weft; -- called also lay and batten. Blanchard lathe, a lathe for turning irregular forms after a given pattern, as lasts, gunstocks, and the like.  -- Drill lathe, or Speed lathe, a small lathe which, from its high speed, is adapted for drilling; a hand lathe.  -- Engine lathe, a turning lathe in which the cutting tool has an automatic feed; -- used chiefly for turning and boring metals, cutting screws, etc.  -- Foot lathe, a lathe which is driven by a treadle worked by the foot.  -- Geometric lathe. See under Geometric -- Hand lathe, a lathe operated by hand; a power turning lathe without an automatic feed for the tool.  -- Slide lathe, an engine lathe.  -- Throw lathe, a small lathe worked by one hand, while the cutting tool is held in the other. 

LATHER:  To spread over with lather; as, to lather the face. 

LATHER:  To form lather, or a froth like lather; to accumulate foam from profuse sweating, as a horse. 

LATHER:  To beat severely with a thong, strap, or the like; to flog. [Low]  LATHEREEVE; LATHREEVE Lathe"reeve`, Lath"reeve`, n.  Formerly, the head officer of a lathe. See 1st Lathe. 

LATHING:  The act or process of covering with laths; laths, collectively; a covering of laths.  LATH-SHAPED Lath"-shaped`, a.  Having a slender elongated form, like a lath; -- said of the feldspar of certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as seen in microscopic sections. 

LATHWORK:  Same as Lathing. 

LATHY:  Like a lath; long and slender. A lathy horse, all legs and length. R. Browning. 

LATIAN:  Belonging, or relating, to Latium, a country of ancient Italy. See Latin. 

LATIBULIZE:  To retire into a den, or hole, and lie dormant in winter; to retreat and lie hid. [R.] G. Shaw. 

LATIBULUM:  A concealed hiding place; a burrow; a lair; a hole. 

LATICIFEROUS:  Containing the latex; -- applied to the tissue or tubular vessels in which the latex of the plant is found. 

LATICLAVE:  A broad stripe of purple on the fore part of the tunic, worn by senators in ancient Rome as an emblem of office. 

LATICOSTATE:  Broad-ribbed. 

LATIDENTATE:  Broad-toothed.  LATIFOLIATE; LATIFOLIOUS Lat`i*fo"li*ate, Lat`i*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. latifolius; latus broad + folium leaf: cf. F. latifolié.] (Bot.)  Having broad leaves. 

LATIGO:  A strap for tightening a saddle girth. [Western U. S. & Sp. Amer.]  LATIGO HALTER La"ti*go hal"ter.  A kind of halter usually made of raw hide. 

LATIMER:  An interpreter. [Obs.] Coke. 

LATIN:  A member of the Roman Catholic Church. (Dog Latin, barbarous Latin; a jargon in imitation of Latin; as, the log Latin of schoolboys.  -- Late Latin, Low Latin, terms used indifferently to designate the latest stages of the Latin language; low Latin (and, perhaps, late Latin also), including the barbarous coinages from the French, German, and other languages into a Latin form made after the Latin had become a dead language for the people.  -- Law Latin, that kind of late, or low, Latin, used in statutes and legal instruments; -- often barbarous. 

LATIN:  To write or speak in Latin; to turn or render into Latin. [Obs.] Fuller. 

LATINISM:  A Latin idiom; a mode of speech peculiar to Latin; also, a mode of speech in another language, as English, formed on a Latin model.  Note: The term is also sometimes used by Biblical scholars to designate a Latin word in Greek letters, or the Latin sense of a Greek word in the Greek Testament. 

LATINIST:  One skilled in Latin; a Latin scholar. Cowper. He left school a good Latinist. Macaulay. 

LATINISTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, Latin; in the Latin style or idiom. "Latinistic words." Fitzed. Hall. 

LATINITASTER:  One who has but a smattering of Latin. Walker. 

LATINITY:  The Latin tongue, style, or idiom, or the use thereof; specifically, purity of Latin style or idiom. "His eleLatinity." Motley. 

LATINIZATION:  The act or process of Latinizing, as a word, language, or country. The Germanization of Britain went far deeper than the Latinization of France. M. Arnold. 

LATINIZE:  To use words or phrases borrowed from the Latin. Dryden.  2. To come under the influence of the Romans, or of the Roman Catholic Church. 

LATINLY:  In the manner of the Latin language; in correct Latin. [Obs.] Heylin. 

LATION:  Transportation; conveyance. [Obs.]  LATIROSTRAL; LATIROSTROUS Lat`i*ros"tral, Lat`i*ros"trous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. latirostre. See Latirostres.] (Zoöl.)  Having a broad beak. Sir T. Browne. 

LATIROSTRES:  The broad-billed singing birds, such as the swallows, and their allies. 

LATISH:  Somewhat late. [Colloq.] 

LATISTERNAL:  Having a broad breastbone, or sternum; -- said of anthropoid apes. 

LATITANCY:  Act or state of lying hid, or lurking. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

LATITANT:  Lying hid; concealed; latent. [R.] 

LATITAT:  A writ based upon the presumption that the person summoned was hiding. Blackstone. 

LATITATION:  A lying in concealment; hiding. [Obs.] 

LATITUDE:  Distance north or south of the equator, measured on a meridian.  6. (Astron.)  The angular distance of a heavenly body from the ecliptic. Ascending latitude, Circle of latitude, Geographical latitude, etc. See under Ascending. Circle, etc.  -- High latitude, that part of the earth's surface near either pole, esp. that part within either the arctic or the antarctic circle.  -- Low latitude, that part of the earth's surface which is near the equator. 

LATITUDINAL:  Of or pertaining to latitude; in the direction of latitude. 

LATITUDINARIAN:  A member of the Church of England, in the time of Charles II., who adopted more liberal notions in respect to the authority, government, and doctrines of the church than generally prevailed. They were called "men of latitude;" and upon this, men of narrow thoughts fastened upon them the name of latitudinarians. Bp. Burnet.  3. (Theol.)  One who departs in opinion from the strict principles of orthodoxy. 

LATITUDINARIANISM:  A latitudinarian system or condition; freedom of opinion in matters pertaining to religious belief. Fierce sectarianism bred fierce latitudinarianism. De Quincey. He [Ammonius Saccas] plunged into the wildest latitudinarianism of opinion. J. S. Harford. 

LATITUDINOUS:  Having latitude, or wide extent.  LATON; LATOUN Lat"on, Lat"oun, n.  Latten, 1. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LATRANT:  Barking. [Obs.] Tickell. 

LATRATE:  To bark as a dog. [Obs.] 

LATRATION:  A barking. [Obs.] 

LATRIA:  The highest kind of worship, or that paid to God; -- distinguished by the Roman Catholics from dulia, or the inferior worship paid to saints. 

LATRINE:  A privy, or water-closet, esp. in a camp, hospital, etc. 

LATROCINY:  Theft; larceny. [Obs.] 

LATTERDAY:  Belonging to present times or those recent by comparison.  LATTER-DAY SAINT Lat"ter-day` saint".  A Mormon; -- the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints being the name assumed by the whole body of Mormons. 

LATTERKIN:  A pointed wooden tool used in glazing leaden lattice. 

LATTERLY:  Lately; of late; recently; at a later, as distinguished from a former, period. Latterly Milton was short and thick. Richardson. 

LATTERMATH:  The latter, or second, mowing; the aftermath. 

LATTICE:  The representation of a piece of latticework used as a bearing, the bands being vertical and horizontal. Lattice bridge, a bridge supported by lattice girders, or latticework trusses.  -- Lattice girder (Arch.), a girder of which the wed consists of diagonal pieces crossing each other in the manner of latticework.  -- Lattice plant (Bot.), an aquatic plant of Madagascar (Ouvirandra fenestralis), whose leaves have interstices between their ribs and cross veins, so as to resemble latticework. A second species is O. Berneriana. The genus is merged in Aponogeton by recent authors. 

LATTICEWORK:  Same as Lattice, n., 1. 

LATTICING:  A system of bars crossing in the middle to form braces between principal longitudinal members, as of a strut.  LATUS RECTUM La"tus rec"tum. Etym: [L., the right side.] (Conic Sections)  The line drawn through a focus of a conic section parallel to the directrix and terminated both ways by the curve. It is the parameter of the principal axis. See Focus, and Parameter. 

LAUD:  To praise in words alone, or with words and singing; to celebrate; to extol. With all the company of heaven, we laud and magnify thy glorious name. Book of Common Prayer. 

LAUDABILITY:  Laudableness; praiseworthiness. 

LAUDABLE:  Healthy; salubrious; normal; having a disposition to promote healing; not noxious; as, laudable juices of the body; laudable pus. Arbuthnot. 

LAUDABLENESS:  The quality of being laudable; praiseworthiness; commendableness. 

LAUDABLY:  In a laudable manner. 

LAUDANINE:  A white organic base, resembling morphine, and obtained from certain varieties of opium. 

LAUDANUM:  Tincture of opium, used for various medical purposes.  Note: A fluid ounce of American laudanum should contain the soluble matter of one tenth of an ounce avoirdupois of powdered opium with equal parts of alcohol and water. English laudanum should have ten grains less of opium in the fluid ounce. U. S. Disp. Dutchman's laudanum (Bot.) See under Dutchman. 

LAUDATION:  The act of lauding; praise; high commendation. 

LAUDATIVE:  Laudatory. 

LAUDATIVE:  A panegyric; a eulogy. [Obs.] Bacon. 

LAUDATOR:  An arbitrator. [Obs.] Cowell. 

LAUDATORY:  Of or pertaining praise, or to the expression of praise; as, laudatory verses; the laudatory powers of Dryden. Sir J. Stephen. 

LAUDER:  One who lauds. 

LAUGH:  An expression of mirth peculiar to the human species; the sound heard in laughing; laughter. See Laugh, v. i. And the loud laugh that spoke the vacant mind. Goldsmith. That man is a bad man who has not within him the power of a hearty laugh. F. W. Robertson. 

LAUGHABLE:  Fitted to excite laughter; as, a laughable story; a laughable scene.  Syn.  -- Droll; ludicrous; mirthful; comical. See Droll, and Ludicrous.  -- Laugh"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Laugh"a*bly, adv. 

LAUGHING:  from Laugh, v. i. Laughing falcon (Zoöl.), a South American hawk (Herpetotheres cachinnans); -- so called from its notes, which resemble a shrill laughing.  -- Laughing gas (Chem.), hyponitrous oxide, or protoxide of nitrogen; -- so called from the exhilaration and laughing which it sometimes produces when inhaled. It is much used as an anæsthetic agent.  -- Laughing goose (Zoöl.), the European white-fronted goose.  -- Laughing gull. (Zoöl.) (a) A common European gull (Xema ridibundus); -- called also pewit, black cap, red-legged gull, and sea crow. (b) An American gull (Larus atricilla). In summer the head is nearly black, the back slate color, and the five outer primaries black.  -- Laughing hyena (Zoöl.), the spotted hyena. See Hyena.  -- Laughing jackass (Zoöl.), the great brown kingfisher (Dacelo gigas), of Australia; -- called also giant kingfisher, and gogobera.  -- Laughing owl (Zoöl.), a peculiar owl (Sceloglaux albifacies) of New Zealand, said to be on the verge of extinction. The name alludes to its notes. 

LAUGHINGLY:  With laughter or merriment. 

LAUGHINGSTOCK:  An object of ridicule; a butt of sport. Shak. When he talked, he talked nonsense, and made himself the laughingstock of his hearers. Macaulay. 

LAUGHSOME:  Exciting laughter; also, addicted to laughter; merry. [R.] 

LAUGHTER:  A movement (usually involuntary) of the muscles of the face, particularly of the lips, with a peculiar expression of the eyes, indicating merriment, satisfaction, or derision, and usually attended by a sonorous and interrupted expulsion of air from the lungs. See Laugh, v. i. The act of laughter, which is a sweet contraction of the muscles of the face, and a pleasant agitation of the vocal organs, is not merely, or totally within the jurisdiction of ourselves. Sir T. Browne. Archly the maiden smiled, and with eyes overrunning with laughter. Longfellow. 

LAUGHTERLESS:  Not laughing; without laughter. 

LAUGHWORTHY:  Deserving to be laughed at. [R.] B. Jonson. 

LAUMONTITE:  A mineral, of a white color and vitreous luster. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Exposed to the air, it loses water, becomes opaque, and crumbles. [Written also laumonite.] 

LAUNCE:  A lance. [Obs.] 

LAUNCE:  A balance. [Obs.] Fortune all in equal launce doth sway. Spenser. 

LAUNCE:  See Lant, the fish. 

LAUNCEGAYE:  See Langegaye. [Obs.] 

LAUNCH:  To move with force and swiftness like a sliding from the stocks into the water; to plunge; to make a beginning; as, to launch into the current of a stream; to launch into an argument or discussion; to launch into lavish expenditures; -- often with out. Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. Luke v. 4. He [Spenser] launches out into very flowery paths. Prior. 

LAUNCH:  The boat of the largest size belonging to a ship of war; also, an open boat of any size driven by steam, naphtha, electricity, or the like. Launching ways. (Naut.) See Way, n. (Naut.). 

LAUND:  A plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade. [Obs.] In a laund upon an hill of flowers. Chaucer. Through this laund anon the deer will come. Shak. 

LAUNDER:  A trough used by miners to receive the powdered ore from the box where it is beaten, or for carrying water to the stamps, or other apparatus, for comminuting, or sorting, the ore. 

LAUNDERER:  One who follows the business of laundering. 

LAUNDERING:  The act, or occupation, of one who launders; washing and ironing. 

LAUNDRESS:  A woman whose employment is laundering. 

LAUNDRESS:  To act as a laundress.[Obs.] 

LAUNDRYMAN:  A man who follows the business of laundering. 

LAURA:  A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhood occupied by anchorites who were under the same superior. C. Kingsley. 

LAURACEOUS:  Belonging to, or resembling, a natural order (Lauraceæ) of trees and shrubs having aromatic bark and foliage, and including the laurel, sassafras, cinnamon tree, true camphor tree, etc. 

LAURATE:  A salt of lauric acid. 

LAUREATE:  Crowned, or decked, with laurel. Chaucer. To strew the laureate hearse where Lycid lies. Milton. Soft on her lap her laureate son reclines. Pope. Poet laureate. (b) One who received an honorable degree in grammar, including poetry and rhetoric, at the English universities; -- so called as being presented with a wreath of laurel. [Obs.] (b) Formerly, an officer of the king's household, whose business was to compose an ode annually for the king's birthday, and other suitable occasions; now, a poet officially distinguished by such honorary title, the office being a sinecure. It is said this title was first given in the time of Edward IV. [Eng.] 

LAUREATE:  One crowned with laurel; a poet laureate. "A learned laureate." Cleveland. 

LAUREATE:  To honor with a wreath of laurel, as formerly was done in bestowing a degree at the English universities. 

LAUREATESHIP:  State, or office, of a laureate. 

LAUREATION:  The act of crowning with laurel; the act of conferring an academic degree, or honorary title. 

LAUREL:  An evergreen shrub, of the genus Laurus (L. nobilis), having aromatic leaves of a lanceolate shape, with clusters of small, yellowish white flowers in their axils; -- called also sweet bay.  Note: The fruit is a purple berry. It is found about the Mediterranean, and was early used by the ancient Greeks to crown the victor in the games of Apollo. At a later period, academic honors were indicated by a crown of laurel, with the fruit. The leaves and tree yield an aromatic oil, used to flavor the bay water of commerce.  Note: The name is extended to other plants which in some respect resemble the true laurel. See Phrases, below.  2. A crown of laurel; hence, honor; distinction; fame; -- especially in the plural; as, to win laurels.  3. An English gold coin made in 1619, and so called because the king's head on it was crowned with laurel. Laurel water, water distilled from the fresh leaves of the cherry laurel, and containing prussic acid and other products carried over in the process. American laurel, or Mountain laurel, Kalmia latifolia. See under Mountain.  -- California laurel, Umbellularia Californica.  -- Cherry laurel (in England called laurel). See under Cherry.  -- Great laurel, the rosebay (Rhododendron maximum).  -- Ground laurel, trailing arbutus.  -- New Zealand laurel, Laurelia Novæ Zelandiæ.  -- Portugal laurel, the Prunus Lusitanica.  -- Rose laurel, the oleander. See Oleander.  -- Sheep laurel, a poisonous shrub, Kalmia angustifolia, smaller than the mountain laurel, and with smaller and redder flowers.  -- Spurge laurel, Daphne Laureola.  -- West Indian laurel, Prunus occidentalis. 

LAURELED:  Crowned with laurel, or with a laurel wreath; laureate. [Written also laurelled.] 

LAURENTIAN:  Pertaining to, or near, the St. Lawrence River; as, the Laurentian hills. Laurentian period (Geol.), the lower of the two divisions of the Archæan age; -- called also the Laurentian. 

LAURER:  Laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAURESTINE:  The Viburnum Tinus, an evergreen shrub or tree of the south of Europe, which flowers during the winter mouths. [Written also laurustine and laurestina.] 

LAURIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the European bay or laurel (Laurus nobilis). Lauric acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline substance, C12H24O2, resembling palmitic acid, and obtained from the fruit of the bay tree, and other sources. 

LAURIFEROUS:  Producing, or bringing, laurel. 

LAURIN:  A white crystalline substance extracted from the fruit of the bay (Laurus nobilis), and consisting of a complex mixture of glycerin ethers of several organic acids. 

LAURINOL:  Ordinary camphor; -- so called in allusion to the family name (Lauraceæ) of the camphor trees. See Camphor. 

LAURIOL:  Spurge laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAURITE:  A rare sulphide of osmium and ruthenium found with platinum in Borneo and Oregon. 

LAURONE:  The ketone of lauric acid. 

LAURUS:  A genus of trees including, according to modern authors, only the true laurel (Laurus nobilis), and the larger L. Canariensis of Madeira and the Canary Islands. Formerly the sassafras, the camphor tree, the cinnamon tree, and several other aromatic trees and shrubs, were also referred to the genus Laurus. 

LAUS:  Loose. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAVA:  The melted rock ejected by a volcano from its top or fissured sides. It flows out in streams sometimes miles in length. It also issues from fissures in the earth's surface, and forms beds covering many square miles, as in the Northwestern United States.  Note: Lavas are classed, according to their structure, as scoriaceous or cellular, glassy, stony, etc., and according to the material of which they consist, as doleritic, trachytic, etc. Lava millstone, a hard and coarse basaltic millstone from the neighborhood of the Rhine.  -- Lava ware, a kind of cheap pottery made of iron slag cast into tiles, urns, table tops, etc., resembling lava in appearance.  LA VALLIERE; LAVALLIERE La val`liere", or  La`val`liere", n.  A neck ornament consisting of a chain and single pendant, or drop. 

LAVARET:  A European whitefish (Coregonus laveretus), found in the mountain lakes of Sweden, Germany, and Switzerland. 

LAVATIC:  Like lava, or composed of lava; lavic. 

LAVATION:  A washing or cleansing. [Obs. or R.] 

LAVATORY:  Washing, or cleansing by washing. 

LAVATURE:  A wash or lotion. [Obs.] 

LAVE:  To wash; to bathe; as, to lave a bruise. His feet the foremost breakers lave. Byron. 

LAVE:  To bathe; to wash one's self. In her chaste current oft the goddess laves. Pope. 

LAVE:  To lade, dip, or pour out. [Obs.] Dryden. 

LAVE:  The remainder; others. [Scot.] Bp. Hall.  LAVE-EARED Lave"-eared`, a. Etym: [Cf. W. llaf that extends round, llipa flaccid, flapping, G. lapp flabby, lappohr flap ear.]  Having large, pendent ears. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

LAVEER:  To beat against the wind; to tack. [Obs.] Dryden. 

LAVEMENT:  A washing or bathing; also, a clyster. 

LAVENDER:  An aromatic plant of the genus Lavandula (L. vera), common in the south of Europe. It yields and oil used in medicine and perfumery. The Spike lavender (L. Spica) yields a coarser oil (oil of spike), used in the arts.  2. The pale, purplish color of lavender flowers, paler and more delicate than lilac. Lavender cotton (Bot.), a low, twiggy, aromatic shrub (Santolina Chamæcyparissus) of the Mediterranean region, formerly used as a vermifuge, etc., and still used to keep moths from wardrobes. Also called ground cypress.  -- Lavender water, a perfume composed of alcohol, essential oil of lavender, essential oil of bergamot, and essence of ambergris.  -- Sea lavender. (Bot.) See Marsh rosemary.  -- To lay in lavender. (a) To lay away, as clothing, with sprigs of lavender. (b) To pawn. [Obs.] 

LAVER:  One who laves; a washer. [Obs.] 

LAVER:  The fronds of certain marine algæ used as food, and for making a sauce called laver sauce. Green laver is the Ulva latissima; purlpe laver, Porphyra laciniata and P. vulgaris. It is prepared by stewing, either alone or with other vegetables, and with various condiments; - - called also sloke, or sloakan. Mountain laver (Bot.), a reddish gelatinous alga of the genus Palmella, found on the sides of mountains 

LAVEROCK:  The lark. [Old Eng. & Scot.] [Written also lavrock.] Gower. 

LAVIC:  See Lavatic. 

LAVISH:  To expend or bestow with profusion; to use with prodigality; to squander; as, to lavish money or praise. 

LAVISHER:  One who lavishes. 

LAVISHLY:  In a lavish manner. 

LAVISHMENT:  The act of lavishing. 

LAVISHNESS:  The quality or state of being lavish. 

LAVOESIUM:  A supposed new metallic element. It is said to have been discovered in pyrites, and some other minerals, and to be of a silver-white color, and malleable.  LAVOLT; LAVOLTA La*volt", La*vol"ta, n. Etym: [It.la volta the turn, turning, whirl. Cf. Volt of a horse, Volta.]  An old dance, for two persons, being a kind of waltz, in which the woman made a high spring or bound. Shak. 

LAVOLTATEER:  A dancer of the lavolta. 

LAVOUR:  A laver. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LAVROCK:  Same as Laverock. 

LAW:  Same as Lawe, v. t. [Obs.] 

LAW:  An exclamation of mild surprise. [Archaic or Low]  LAW-ABIDING Law"-a*bid`ing, a.  Abiding the law; waiting for the operation of law for the enforcement of rights; also, abiding by the law; obedient to the law; as, law-abiding people. 

LAWBREAKER:  One who disobeys the law; a criminal.  -- Law"break`ing, n. & a. 

LAWE:  To cut off the claws and balls of, as of a dog's fore feet. Wright. 

LAWER:  A lawyer. [Obs.] Bale. 

LAWGIVER:  One who makes or enacts a law or system of laws; a legislator. 

LAWGIVING:  Enacting laws; legislative. 

LAWING:  Going to law; litigation. Holinshed. 

LAWING:  Expeditation. Blackstone. 

LAWMAKER:  A legislator; a lawgiver. 

LAWMAKING:  Enacting laws; legislative.  -- n.  The enacting of laws; legislation. 

LAWMONGER:  A trader in law; one who practices law as if it were a trade. Milton. 

LAWN:  A very fine linen (or sometimes cotton) fabric with a rather open texture. Lawn is used for the sleeves of a bishop's official dress in the English Church, and, figuratively, stands for the office itself. A saint in crape is twice in lawn. Pope. 

LAWND:  See Laund. 

LAWNY:  Having a lawn; characterized by a lawn or by lawns; like a lawn. Musing through the lawny park. T. Warton. 

LAWNY:  Made of lawn or fine linen. Bp. Hall. 

LAWSONIA:  An Asiatic and North African shrub (Lawsonia inermis), with smooth oval leaves, and fragrant white flowers. Henna is prepared from the leaves and twigs. In England the shrub is called Egyptian privet, and in the West Indies, Jamaica mignonette. 

LAWSUIT:  An action at law; a suit in equity or admiralty; any legal proceeding before a court for the enforcement of a claim. 

LAWYER:  Like, or becoming, a lawyer; as, lawyerlike sagacity. "Lawyerly mooting of this point." Milton. 

LAX:  A looseness; diarrhea. 

LAXATION:  The act of loosening or slackening, or the state of being loosened or slackened. 

LAXATIVE:  Having the effect of loosening or opening the intestines, and relieving from constipation; -- opposed to astringent.  -- n. (Med.)  A laxative medicine. See the Note under Cathartic. 

LAXATIVENESS:  The quality of being laxative. 

LAXATOR:  That which loosens; -- esp., a muscle which by its contraction loosens some part. 

LAXIITY:  The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness, strictness, or exactness. 

LAXITY:  The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness, strictness, or exactness. 

LAXLY:  In a lax manner. 

LAXNESS:  The state of being lax; laxity. 

LAY:  of Lie, to recline. 

LAY:  The laity; the common people. [Obs.] The learned have no more privilege than the lay. B. Jonson. 

LAY:  A meadow. See Lea. [Obs.] Dryden. 

LAY:  To state; to allege; as, to lay the venue. Bouvier.  15. (Mil.)  To point; to aim; as, to lay a gun.  16. (Rope Making)  To put the strands of (a rope, a cable, etc.) in their proper places and twist or unite them; as, to lay a cable or rope.  17. (Print.) (a) To place and arrange (pages) for a form upon the imposing stone. (b) To place (new type) properly in the cases. To lay asleep, to put sleep; to make unobservant or careless. Bacon.  -- To lay bare, to make bare; to strip. And laid those proud roofs bare to summer's rain. Byron. -- To lay before, to present to; to submit for consideration; as, the papers are laid before Congress.  -- To lay by. (a) To save. (b) To discard. Let brave spirits . . . not be laid by. Bacon. -- To lay by the heels, to put in the stocks. Shak.  -- To lay down. (a) To stake as a wager. (b) To yield; to relinquish; to surrender; as, to lay down one's life; to lay down one's arms. (c) To assert or advance, as a proposition or principle.  -- To lay forth. (a) To extend at length; (reflexively) to exert one's self; to expatiate. [Obs.] (b) To lay out (as a corpse). [Obs.] Shak.  -- To lay hands on, to seize.  -- To lay hands on one's self, or To lay violent hands on one's self, to injure one's self; specif., to commit suicide.  -- To lay heads together, to consult.  -- To lay hold of, or To lay hold on, to seize; to catch.  -- To lay in, to store; to provide.  -- To lay it on, to apply without stint. Shak.  -- To lay on, to apply with force; to inflict; as, to lay on blows.  -- To lay on load, to lay on blows; to strike violently. [Obs. or Archaic] -- To lay one's self out, to strive earnestly. No selfish man will be concerned to lay out himself for the good of his country. Smalridge. -- To lay one's self open to, to expose one's self to, as to an accusation.  -- To lay open, to open; to uncover; to expose; to reveal.  -- To lay over, to spread over; to cover.  -- To lay out. (a) To expend. Macaulay. (b) To display; to discover. (c) To plan in detail; to arrange; as, to lay out a garden. (d) To prepare for burial; as, to lay out a corpse. (e) To exert; as, to lay out all one's strength.  -- To lay siege to. (a) To besiege; to encompass with an army. (b) To beset pertinaciously.  -- To lay the course (Naut.), to sail toward the port intended without jibing.  -- To lay the land (Naut.), to cause it to disappear below the horizon, by sailing away from it.  -- To lay to (a) To charge upon; to impute. (b) To apply with vigor. (c) To attack or harass. [Obs.] Knolles. (d) (Naut.) To check the motion of (a vessel) and cause it to be stationary.  -- To lay to heart, to feel deeply; to consider earnestly.  -- To lay under, to subject to; as, to lay under obligation or restraint.  -- To lay unto. (a) Same as To lay to (above). (b) To put before. Hos. xi. 4.  -- To lay up. (a) To store; to reposit for future use. (b) To confine; to disable. (c) To dismantle, and retire from active service, as a ship.  -- To lay wait for, to lie in ambush for.  -- To lay waste, to destroy; to make desolate; as, to lay waste the land.  Syn.  -- See Put, v. t., and the Note under 4th Lie. 

LAY:  To take a position; to come or go; as, to lay forward; to lay aloft.  3. To lay a wager; to bet. To lay about, or To lay about one, to strike vigorously in all directions. J. H. Newman.  -- To lay at, to strike or strike at. Spenser.  -- To lay for, to prepare to capture or assault; to lay wait for. [Colloq.] Bp Hall.  -- To lay in for, to make overtures for; to engage or secure the possession of. [Obs.] "I have laid in for these." Dryden.  -- To lay on, to strike; to beat; to attack. Shak.  -- To lay out, to purpose; to plan; as, he lays out to make a journey. 

LAYER:  That which is laid; a stratum; a bed; one thickness, course, or fold laid over another; as, a layer of clay or of sand in the earth; a layer of bricks, or of plaster; the layers of an onion.  3. A shoot or twig of a plant, not detached from the stock, laid under ground for growth or propagation.  4. An artificial oyster bed. 

LAYERING:  A propagating by layers. Gardner. 

LAYETTE:  The outfit of clothing, blankets, etc., prepared for a newborn infant, and placed ready for used. 

LAYLAND:  Land lying untilled; fallow ground. [Obs.] Blount. 

LAYNER:  A whiplash. [Obs.]  LAY READER Lay" read"er. (Eccl.)  A layman authorized to read parts of the public service of the church.  LAY SHAFT; LAYSHAFT Lay shaft, or Lay"shaft`, n. (Mach.)  A secondary shaft, as in a sliding change gear for an automobile; a cam shaft operated by a two-to-one gear in an internal- combustion engine. It is generally a shaft moving more or less independently of the other parts of a machine, as, in some marine engines, a shaft, driven by a small auxiliary engine, for independently operating the valves of the main engine to insure uniform motion. 

LAYSHIP:  The condition of being a layman. [Obs.] Milton. 

LAZAR:  A person infected with a filthy or pestilential disease; a leper. Chaucer. Like loathsome lazars, by the hedges lay. Spenser. Lazar house a lazaretto; also, a hospital for quarantine.  LAZARET; LAZARETTO Laz`a*ret", Laz`a*ret"to, n. Etym: [F. lazaret, or It. lazzeretto, fr. Lazarus. See Lazar.]  A public building, hospital, or pesthouse for the reception of diseased persons, particularly those affected with contagious diseases.  LAZARET FEVER Lazaret fever. (Med.)  Typhus fever.  LAZARIST; LAZARITE Laz"a*rist, Laz"a*rite, n. (R. C. Ch.)  One of the Congregation of the Priests of the Mission, a religious institute founded by Vincent de Paul in 1624, and popularly called Lazarists or Lazarites from the College of St. Lazare in Paris, which was occupied by them until 1792.  LAZARLIKE; LAZARLY La"zar*like`, La"zar*ly, a.  Full of sores; leprous. Shak. Bp. Hall. 

LAZARONI:  See Lazzaroni. 

LAZARWORT:  Laserwort. 

LAZE:  To be lazy or idle. [Colloq.] Middleton. 

LAZE:  To waste in sloth; to spend, as time, in idleness; as, to laze away whole days. [Colloq.] 

LAZILY:  In a lazy manner. Locke. 

LAZINESS:  The state or quality of being lazy. Laziness travels so slowly, that Poverty soon overtakes him. Franklin. 

LAZULI:  A mineral of a fine azure-blue color, usually in small rounded masses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, with some sodium sulphide, is often marked by yellow spots or veins of sulphide of iron, and is much valued for ornamental work. Called also lapis lazuli, and Armenian stone. 

LAZULITE:  A mineral of a light indigo-blue color, occurring in small masses, or in monoclinic crystals; blue spar. It is a hydrous phosphate of alumina and magnesia. 

LAZYBACK:  A support for the back, attached to the seat of a carriage. [Colloq.] 

LAZYBONES:  A lazy person. [Colloq.] 

LAZZARONI:  The homeless idlers of Naples who live by chance work or begging; -- so called from the Hospital of St. Lazarus, which serves as their refuge. [Written also, but improperly, lazaroni.] 

LEA:  A meadow or sward land; a grassy field. "Plow-torn leas." Shak. The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the lea. Gray. 

LEACH:  See 3d Leech. 

LEACH:  To part with soluble constituents by percolation. 

LEACH:  See Leech, a physician. [Obs.] 

LEACHY:  Permitting liquids to pass by percolation; not capable of retaining water; porous; pervious; -- said of gravelly or sandy soils, and the like. 

LEAD:  One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleable and ductile, though with little tenacity, and is used for tubes, sheets, bullets, etc. Its specific gravity is 11.37. It is easily fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of solder and type metal. Atomic weight, 206.4. Symbol Pb (L. Plumbum). It is chiefly obtained from the mineral galena, lead sulphide.  2. An article made of lead or an alloy of lead; as: (a) A plummet or mass of lead, used in sounding at sea. (b) (Print.) A thin strip of type metal, used to separate lines of type in printing. (c) Sheets or plates of lead used as a covering for roofs; hence, pl., a roof covered with lead sheets or terne plates. I would have the tower two stories, and goodly leads upon the top. Bacon  3. A small cylinder of black lead or plumbago, used in pencils. Black lead, graphite or plumbago, ; -- so called from its leadlike appearance and streak. [Colloq.] -- Coasting lead, a sounding lead intermediate in weight between a hand lead and deep-sea lead.  -- Deep-sea lead, the heaviest of sounding leads, used in water exceeding a hundred fathoms in depth. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  -- Hand lead, a small lead use for sounding in shallow water.  -- Krems lead, Kremnitz lead Etym: [so called from Krems or Kremnitz, in Austria], a pure variety of white lead, formed into tablets, and called also Krems, or Kremnitz, white, and Vienna white.  -- Lead arming, tallow put in the hollow of a sounding lead. See To arm the lead (below).  -- Lead colic. See under Colic.  -- Lead color, a deep bluish gray color, like tarnished lead.  -- Lead glance. (Min.) Same as Galena.  -- Lead line (a) (Med.) A dark line along the gums produced by a deposit of metallic lead, due to lead poisoning. (b) (Naut.) A sounding line.  -- Lead mill, a leaden polishing wheel, used by lapidaries.  -- Lead ocher (Min.), a massive sulphur-yellow oxide of lead. Same as Massicot.  -- Lead pencil, a pencil of which the marking material is graphite (black lead).  -- Lead plant (Bot.), a low leguminous plant, genus Amorpha (A. canescens), found in the Northwestern United States, where its presence is supposed to indicate lead ore. Gray.  -- Lead tree. (a) (Bot.) A West Indian name for the tropical, leguminous tree, Leucæna glauca; -- probably so called from the glaucous color of the foliage. (b) (Chem.) Lead crystallized in arborescent forms from a solution of some lead salt, as by suspending a strip of zinc in lead acetate.  -- Mock lead, a miner's term for blende.  -- Red lead, a scarlet, crystalline, granular powder, consisting of minium when pure, but commonly containing several of the oxides of lead. It is used as a paint or cement and also as an ingredient of flint glass.  -- Red lead ore (Min.), crocoite.  -- Sugar of lead, acetate of lead.  -- To arm the lead, to fill the hollow in the bottom of a sounding lead with tallow in order to discover the nature of the bottom by the substances adhering. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  -- To cast, or heave, the lead, to cast the sounding lead for ascertaining the depth of water.  -- White lead, hydrated carbonate of lead, obtained as a white, amorphous powder, and much used as an ingredient of white paint. 

LEAD:  To place leads between the lines of; as, to lead a page; leaded matter. 

LEAD:  To begin a game, round, or trick, with; as, to lead trumps; the double five was led. To lead astray, to guide in a wrong way, or into error; to seduce from truth or rectitude.  -- To lead captive, to carry or bring into captivity.  -- To lead the way, to show the way by going in front; to act as guide. Goldsmith. 

LEAD:  The act or right of playing first in a game or round; the card suit, or piece, so played; as, your partner has the lead.  4. An open way in an ice field. Kane.  5. (Mining)  A lode.  6. (Naut.)  The course of a rope from end to end.  7. (Steam Engine)  The width of port opening which is uncovered by the valve, for the admission or release of steam, at the instant when the piston is at end of its stroke.  Note: When used alone it means outside lead, or lead for the admission of steam. Inside lead refers to the release or exhaust.  8. (Civil Engineering)  the distance of haul, as from a cutting to an embankment.  9. (Horology)  The action of a tooth, as a tooth of a wheel, in impelling another tooth or a pallet. Saunier. Lead angle (Steam Engine), the angle which the crank maker with the line of centers, in approaching it, at the instant when the valve opens to admit steam.  -- Lead screw (Mach.), the main longitudinal screw of a lathe, which gives the feed motion to the carriage. 

LEADED:  Separated by leads, as the lines of a page. 

LEADER:  A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc. ; also, a line of gut, to which the snell of a fly hook is attached. (i) (Mining) A branch or small vein, not important in itself, but indicating the proximity of a better one.  2. The first, or the principal, editorial article in a newspaper; a leading or main editorial article.  3. (Print.) (a) A type having a dot or short row of dots upon its face. (b) pl.  a row of dots, periods, or hyphens, used in tables of contents, etc., to lead the eye across a space to the right word or number.  Syn.  -- chief; chieftain; commander. See Chief. 

LEADERSHIP:  The office of a leader. 

LEADHILLITE:  A mineral of a yellowish or greenish white color, consisting of the sulphate and carbonate of lead; -- so called from having been first found at Leadhills, Scotland. 

LEADING:  Guiding; directing; controlling; foremost; as, a leading motive; a leading man; a leading example.  -- Lead"ing*ly, adv. Leading case (Law), a reported decision which has come to be regarded as settling the law of the question involved. Abbott.  -- Leading motive Etym: [a translation of G. leitmotif] (Mus.), a guiding theme; in the modern music drama of Wagner, a marked melodic phrase or short passage which always accompanies the reappearance of a certain person, situation, abstract idea, or allusion in the course of the play; a sort of musical label.  -- Leading note (Mus.), the seventh note or tone in the ascending major scale; the sensible note.  -- Leading question, a question so framed as to guide the person questioned in making his reply.  -- Leading strings, strings by which children are supported when beginning to walk.  -- To be in leading strings, to be in a state of infancy or dependence, or under the guidance of others.  -- Leading wheel, a wheel situated before the driving wheels of a locomotive engine. 

LEADING:  same as Advancing edge, above. 

LEADMAN:  One who leads a dance.[Obs.] B. Jonson. 

LEADSMAN:  The man who heaves the lead. Totten. 

LEADWORT:  A genus of maritime herbs (Plumbago). P. Europæa has lead- colored spots on the leaves, and nearly lead-colored flowers. 

LEADY:  Resembling lead. Sir T. Elyot. 

LEAF:  A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is elaborated under the influence of light; one of the parts of a plant which collectively constitute its foliage.  Note: Such leaves usually consist of a blade, or lamina , supported upon a leafstalk or petiole, which, continued through the blade as the midrib, gives off woody ribs and veins that support the cellular texture. The petiole has usually some sort of an appendage on each side of its base, which is called the stipule. The green parenchyma of the leaf is covered with a thin epiderm pierced with closable microscopic openings, known as stomata.  2. (Bot.)  A special organ of vegetation in the form of a lateral outgrowth from the stem, whether appearing as a part of the foliage, or as a cotyledon, a scale, a bract, a spine, or a tendril.  Note: In this view every part of a plant, except the root and the stem, is either a leaf, or is composed of leaves more or less modified and transformed.  3. Something which is like a leaf in being wide and thin and having a flat surface, or in being attached to a larger body by one edge or end; as : (a) A part of a book or folded sheet containing two pages upon its opposite sides. (b) A side, division, or part, that slides or is hinged, as of window shutters, folding doors, etc. (c) The movable side of a table. (d) A very thin plate; as, gold leaf. (e) A portion of fat lying in a separate fold or layer. (f) One of the teeth of a pinion, especially when small. Leaf beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle which feeds upon leaves; esp., any species of the family Chrysomelidæ, as the potato beetle and helmet beetle.  -- Leaf bridge, a draw-bridge having a platform or leaf which swings vertically on hinges.  -- Leaf bud (Bot.), a bud which develops into leaves or a leafy branch.  -- Leaf butterfly (Zoöl.), any butterfly which, in the form and colors of its wings, resembles the leaves of plants upon which it rests; esp., butterflies of the genus Kallima, found in Southern Asia and the East Indies.  -- Leaf crumpler (Zoöl.), a small moth (Phycis indigenella), the larva of which feeds upon leaves of the apple tree, and forms its nest by crumpling and fastening leaves together in clusters.  -- Leaf cutter (Zoöl.) , any one of various species of wild bees of the genus Megachile, which cut rounded pieces from the edges of leaves, or the petals of flowers, to be used in the construction of their nests, which are made in holes and crevices, or in a leaf rolled up for the purpose. Among the common American species are M. brevis and M. centuncularis. Called also rose-cutting bee.  -- Leaf fat, the fat which lies in leaves or layers within the body of an animal.  -- Leaf flea (Zoöl.), a jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidæ.  -- Leaf frog (Zoöl.), any tree frog of the genus Phyllomedusa.  -- Leaf green.(Bot.) See Chlorophyll.  -- Leaf hopper (Zoöl.), any small jumping hemipterous insect of the genus Tettigonia, and allied genera. They live upon the leaves and twigs of plants. See Live hopper.  -- Leaf insect (Zoöl.), any one of several genera and species of orthopterous insects, esp. of the genus Phyllium, in which the wings, and sometimes the legs, resemble leaves in color and form. They are common in Southern Asia and the East Indies.  -- Leaf lard, lard from leaf fat. See under Lard.  -- Leaf louse (Zoöl.), an aphid.  -- Leaf metal, metal in thin leaves, as gold, silver, or tin.  -- Leaf miner (Zoöl.), any one of various small lepidopterous and dipterous insects, which, in the larval stages, burrow in and eat the parenchyma of leaves; as, the pear-tree leaf miner (Lithocolletis geminatella).  -- Leaf notcher (Zoöl.), a pale bluish green beetle (Artipus Floridanus), which, in Florida, eats the edges of the leaves of orange trees.  -- Leaf roller (Zoöl.), the larva of any tortricid moth which makes a nest by rolling up the leaves of plants. See Tortrix.  -- Leaf scar (Bot.), the cicatrix on a stem whence a leaf has fallen.  -- Leaf sewer (Zoöl.), a tortricid moth, whose caterpillar makes a nest by rolling up a leaf and fastening the edges together with silk, as if sewn; esp., Phoxopteris nubeculana, which feeds upon the apple tree.  -- Leaf sight, a hinges sight on a firearm, which can be raised or folded down.  -- Leaf trace (Bot.), one or more fibrovascular bundles, which may be traced down an endogenous stem from the base of a leaf.  -- Leaf tier (Zoöl.), a tortricid moth whose larva makes a nest by fastening the edges of a leaf together with silk; esp., Teras cinderella, found on the apple tree.  -- Leaf valve, a valve which moves on a hinge.  -- Leaf wasp (Zoöl.), a sawfiy.  -- To turn over a new leaf, to make a radical change for the better in one's way of living or doing. [Colloq.] They were both determined to turn over a new leaf. Richardson. 

LEAF:  To shoot out leaves; to produce leaves; to leave; as, the trees leaf in May. Sir T. Browne. 

LEAFAGE:  Leaves, collectively; foliage. 

LEAFCUP:  A coarse American composite weed (Polymnia Uvedalia). 

LEAFED:  Having (such) a leaf or (so many) leaves; -- used in composition; as, broad-leafed; four-leafed. 

LEAFET:  A leaflet.  LEAF-FOOTED Leaf"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.)  Having leaflike expansions on the legs; -- said of certain insects; as, the leaf-footed bug (Leptoglossus phyllopus). 

LEAFINESS:  The state of being leafy. 

LEAFLESS:  Having no leaves or foliage; bearing no foliage. "Leafless groves." Cowper.  -- Leaf"less*ness, n. Leafless plants, plants having no foliage, though leaves may be present in the form of scales and bracts. See Leaf, n., 1 and 2. 

LEAFLET:  One of the divisions of a compound leaf; a foliole.  3. (Zoöl.)  A leaflike organ or part; as, a leaflet of the gills of fishes.  LEAF-NOSED Leaf"-nosed`, n. (Zoöl.)  Having a leaflike membrane on the nose; -- said of certain bats, esp. of the genera Phyllostoma and Rhinonycteris. See Vampire. 

LEAFSTALK:  The stalk or petiole which supports a leaf. 

LEAGUE:  An alliance or combination of two or more nations, parties, or persons, for the accomplishment of a purpose which requires a continued course of action, as for mutual defense, or for furtherance of commercial, religious, or political interests, etc. And let there be 'Twixt us and them no league, nor amity. Denham.  Note: A league may be offensive or defensive, or both; offensive, when the parties agree to unite in attacking a common enemy; defensive, when they agree to a mutual defense of each other against an enemy. The Holy League, an alliance of Roman Catholics formed in 1576 by influence of the Duke of Guise for the exclusion of Protestants from the throne of France.  -- Solemn League and Covenant. See Covenant,2.  -- The land league, an association, organized in Dublin in 1879, to promote the interests of the Irish tenantry, its avowed objects being to secure fixity of tenure fair rent, and free sale of the tenants' interest. It was declared illegal by Parliament, but vigorous prosecutions have failed to suppress it.  Syn.  -- Alliance; confederacy; confederation; coalition; combination; compact; coöperation. 

LEAGUE:  To unite in a league or confederacy; to combine for mutual support; to confederate South. 

LEAGUE:  To join in a league; to cause to combine for a joint purpose; to combine; to unite; as, common interests will league heterogeneous elements. 

LEAGUER:  To besiege; to beleaguer. [Obs.] 

LEAGUERER:  A besieger. [R.] J. Webster. 

LEAK:  Leaky. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LEAKAGE:  An allowance of a certain rate per cent for the leaking of casks, or waste of liquors by leaking. 

LEAKINESS:  The quality of being leaky. 

LEAL:  Faithful; loyal; true. All men true and leal, all women pure. Tennyson. Land of the leal, the place of the faithful; heaven. 

LEAM:  See Leme. [Obs.] Holland. 

LEAM:  A cord or strap for leading a dog. Sir W. Scott. 

LEAMER:  A dog held by a leam. 

LEAN:  To conceal. [Obs.] Ray. 

LEAN:  To cause to lean; to incline; to support or rest. Mrs. Browning. His fainting limbs against an oak he leant. Dryden. 

LEAN:  Of a character which prevents the compositor from earning the usual wages; -- opposed to fat; as lean copy, matter, or type.  Syn.  -- slender; spare; thin; meager; lank; skinny; gaunt. 

LEAN:  Unremunerative copy or work.  LEAN-FACED Lean"-faced`, a.  1. Having a thin face.  2. (Typog.)  slender or narrow; -- said of type the letters of which have thin lines, or are unusually narrow in proportion to their height. W. Savage. 

LEANING:  The act, or state, of inclining; inclination; tendency; as, a leaning towards Calvinism. 

LEANLY:  Meagerly; without fat or plumpness. 

LEANNESS:  The condition or quality of being lean.  LEAN-TO Lean"-to`, a. (Arch.)  Having only one slope or pitch; -- said of a roof.  -- n.  A shed or slight building placed against the wall of a larger structure and having a single-pitched roof; -- called also penthouse, and to-fall. The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to, all round this inner apartment. De Foe.  LEAN-WITTED Lean"-wit`ted, a.  Having but little sense or shrewdness. 

LEANY:  Lean. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LEAP:  A fault.  4. (Mus.)  A passing from one note to another by an interval, especially by a long one, or by one including several other and intermediate intervals. 

LEAPER:  One who, or that which, leaps. 

LEAPER:  A kind of hooked instrument for untwisting old cordage. 

LEAPFROG:  A play among boys, in which one stoops down and another leaps over him by placing his hands on the shoulders of the former. 

LEAPFUL:  A basketful. [Obs.] 

LEAPING:  from Leap, to jump. Leaping house, a brothel. [Obs.] Shak.  -- Leaping pole, a pole used in some games of leaping.  -- Leaping spider (Zoöl.), a jumping spider; one of the Saltigradæ. 

LEAPINGLY:  By leaps.  LEAP YEAR Leap" year`  . Bissextile; a year containing 366 days; every fourth year which leaps over a day more than a common year, giving to February twenty-nine days. See Bissextile.  Note: Every year whose number is divisible by four without a remainder is a leap year, excepting the full centuries, which, to be leap years, must be divisible by 400 without a remainder. If not so divisible they are common years. 1900, therefore, is not a leap year. 

LEAR:  To learn. See Lere, to learn. [Obs.] 

LEAR:  Lore; lesson. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LEAR:  See Leer, a. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

LEAR:  An annealing oven. See Leer, n. 

LEARN:  To acquire knowledge or skill; to make progress in acquiring knowledge or skill; to receive information or instruction; as, this child learns quickly. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. Matt. xi. 29. To learn by heart. See By heart, under Heart.  -- To learn by rote, to memorize by repetition without exercise of the understanding. 

LEARNABLE:  Such as can be learned. 

LEARNED:  Of or pertaining to learning; possessing, or characterized by, learning, esp. scholastic learning; erudite; well-informed; as, a learned scholar, writer, or lawyer; a learned book; a learned theory. The learnedlover lost no time. Spenser. Men of much reading are greatly learned, but may be little knowing. Locke. Words of learned length and thundering sound. Goldsmith. The learned, learned men; men of erudition; scholars.  -- Learn"ed*ly, adv. Learn"ed*ness, n. Every coxcomb swears as learnedly as they. Swift. 

LEARNER:  One who learns; a scholar. 

LEASABLE:  Such as can be leased. 

LEASE:  To gather what harvesters have left behind; to glean. [Obs.] Dryden. 

LEASEHOLD:  Held by lease. 

LEASEHOLD:  A tenure by lease; specifically, land held as personalty under a lease for years. 

LEASEHOLDER:  A tenant under a lease.  -- Lease"hold`ing, a. & n. 

LEASER:  One who leases or gleans. [Obs.] Swift. 

LEASER:  A liar. [Obs.] See Leasing. 

LEASH:  A brace and a half; a tierce; three; three creatures of any kind, especially greyhounds, foxes, bucks, and hares; hence, the number three in general. [I] kept my chamber a leash of days. B. Jonson. Then were I wealthier than a leash of kings. Tennyson.  3. (Weaving)  A string with a loop at the end for lifting warp threads, in a loom. 

LEASH:  To tie together, or hold, with a leash. 

LEASING:  The act of lying; falsehood; a lie or lies. [Archaic] Spenser. Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing. Ps. v. 6. Blessed be the lips that such a leasing told. Fairfax. Leasing making (Scots Law), the uttering of lies or libels upon the personal character of the sovereign, his court, or his family. Bp. Burnet. 

LEASOW:  A pasture. [Obs.] 

LEAST:  Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; most unimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space.  Note: Least is often used with the, as if a noun. I am the least of the apostles. 1 Cor. xv. 9. At least, or At the least, at the least estimate, consideration, chance, etc.; hence, at any rate; at all events; even. See However. He who tempts, though in vain, at least asperses The tempted with dishonor. Milton. Upon the mast they saw a young man, at least if he were a man, who sat as on horseback. Sir P. Sidney. -- In least, or In the least, in the least degree, manner, etc. "He that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much." Luke xvi. 10.  -- Least squares (Math.), a method of deducing from a number of carefully made yet slightly discordant observations of a phenomenon the most probable values of the unknown quantities.  Note: It takes as its fundamental principle that the most probable values are those which make the sum of the squares of the residual errors of the observation a minimum. 

LEAST:  In the smallest or lowest degree; in a degree below all others; as, to reward those who least deserve it. 

LEAST:  See Lest, conj. [Obs.] Spenser.  LEASTWAYS; LEASTWISE Least"ways`, Least"wise`, adv.  At least; at all events. [Colloq.] At leastways, or At leastwise, at least. [Obs.] Fuller. 

LEASY:  Flimsy; vague; deceptive. [Obs.] Ascham. 

LEAT:  An artificial water trench, esp. one to or from a mill. C. Kingsley. 

LEATHER:  To beat, as with a thong of leather. [Obs. or Colloq.] G. Eliot. 

LEATHERBACK:  A large sea turtle (Sphargis coriacea), having no bony shell on its back. It is common in the warm and temperate parts of the Atlantic, and sometimes weighs over a thousand pounds; -- called also leather turtle, leathery turtle, leather-backed tortoise, etc.  LEATHERET; LEATHERETTE Leath"er*et, Leath`er*ette", n. Etym: [Leather + et, F. -ette.]  An imitation of leather, made of paper and cloth. 

LEATHERHEAD:  The friar bird. 

LEATHERN:  Made of leather; consisting of. leather; as, a leathern purse. "A leathern girdle about his loins." Matt. iii. 4. 

LEATHERNECK:  The sordid friar bird of Australia (Tropidorhynchus sordidus). 

LEATHERWOOD:  A small branching shrub (Dirca palustris), with a white, soft wood, and a tough, leathery bark, common in damp woods in the Northern United States; -- called also moosewood, and wicopy. Gray. 

LEATHERY:  Resembling leather in appearance or consistence; tough. "A leathery skin." Grew. 

LEAVE:  To send out leaves; to leaf; -- often with out. G. Fletcher. 

LEAVE:  To raise; to levy. [Obs.] An army strong she leaved. Spenser. 

LEAVED:  Bearing, or having, a leaf or leaves; having folds; -- used in combination; as, a four-leaved clover; a two-leaved gate; long- leaved. 

LEAVELESS:  Leafless. [Obs.] Carew. 

LEAVENOUS:  Containing leaven. Milton. 

LEAVER:  One who leaves, or withdraws. 

LEAVES:  pl. of Leaf.  LEAVE-TAKING Leave"-tak`ing, n.  Taking of leave; parting compliments. Shak. 

LEAVINESS:  Leafiness.[Obs.] 

LEAVY:  Leafy. [Obs.] Chapman.  LEBAN; LEBBAN Leb"an, Leb"ban, n.  Coagulated sour milk diluted with water; -- a common beverage among the Arabs. Also, a fermented liquor made of the same. 

LECAMA:  The hartbeest. 

LECANOMANCY:  divination practiced with water in a basin, by throwing three stones into it, and invoking the demon whose aid was sought. 

LECANORIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid which is obtained from several varieties of lichen (Lecanora, Roccella, etc.), as a white, crystalline substance, and is called also orsellic, or diorsellinic acid, lecanorin, etc. 

LECANORIN:  See Lecanoric. 

LECH:  To lick. [Obs.] 

LECHE:  See water buck, under 3d Buck. 

LECHER:  A man given to lewdness; one addicted, in an excessive degree, to the indulgence of sexual desire, or to illicit commerce with women. 

LECHER:  To practice lewdness. 

LECHERER:  See Lecher, n. Marston. 

LECHEROUS:  Like a lecher; addicted to lewdness; lustful; also, lust- provoking. "A lecherous thing is wine." Chaucer.  -- Lech"er*ous*ly, adv.  -- Lech"er*ous*ness, n. 

LECITHIN:  A complex, nitrogenous phosphorized substance widely distributed through the animal body, and especially conspicuous in the brain and nerve tissue, in yolk of eggs, and in the white blood corpuscles. 

LECTERN:  See Lecturn. 

LECTICA:  A kind of litter or portable couch. 

LECTION:  A lesson or selection, esp. of Scripture, read in divine service.  2. A reading; a variation in the text. We ourselves are offended by the obtrusion of the new lections into the text. De Quincey. 

LECTIONARY:  A book, or a list, of lections, for reading in divine service. 

LECTOR:  A reader of lections; formerly, a person designated to read lessons to the illiterate. 

LECTUAL:  Confining to the bed; as, a lectual disease. 

LECTURE:  A rehearsal of a lesson. 

LECTURE:  To deliver a lecture or lectures. 

LECTURER:  One who lectures; an assistant preacher. 

LECTURESHIP:  The office of a lecturer. 

LECTURN:  A choir desk, or reading desk, in some churches, from which the lections, or Scripture lessons, are chanted or read; hence, a reading desk. [Written also lectern and lettern]. Fairholt. 

LECYTHIS:  A genus of gigantic trees, chiefly Brazilian, of the order Myrtaceæ, having woody capsules opening by an apical lid. Lecythis Zabucajo yields the delicious sapucaia nuts. L. Ollaria produces the monkey-pots, its capsules. Its bark separates into thin sheets, like paper, used by the natives for cigarette wrappers. 

LED:  of Lead. Led captain. An obsequious follower or attendant. [Obs.] Swift.  -- Led horse, a sumpter horse, or a spare horse, that is led along.  LEDEN; LEDDEN Led"en, Led"den n. Etym: [AS. l, l, language, speech. Cf. Leod.]  Language; speech; voice; cry. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

LEDGE:  A lode; a limited mass of rock bearing valuable mineral.  5. (Shipbuilding)  A piece of timber to support the deck, placed athwartship between beams. 

LEDGEMENT:  See Ledgment. 

LEDGY:  Abounding in ledges; consisting of a ledge or reef; as, a ledgy island. 

LEE:  , i, To lie; to speak falsely. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEE:  That which settles at the bottom, as, of a cask of liquor (esp. wine); sediment; dregs; -- used now only in the plural. [Lees occurs also as a form of the singular.] "The lees of wine." Holland. A thousand demons lurk within the lee. Young. The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees Is left this vault to brag of. Shak. 

LEE:  That part of the hemisphere, as one stands on shipboard, toward which the wind blows. See Lee, a. By the lee, To bring by the lee. See under By, and Bring.  -- Under the lee of, on that side which is sheltered from the wind; as, to be under the lee of a ship. 

LEE:  Of or pertaining to the part or side opposite to that against which the wind blows; -- opposed to weather; as, the lee side or lee rail of a vessel. Lee gauge. See Gauge, n. (Naut.) -- Lee shore, the shore on the lee side of a vessel.  -- Lee tide, a tide running in the same direction that the wind blows.  -- On the lee beam, directly to the leeward; in a line at right angles to the length of the vessel and to the leeward.  LEEANGLE; LIANGLE Lee"an`gle, Li"an`gle, n. [From native name.]  A heavy weapon of the Australian aborigines with a sharp- pointed end, about nine inches in length, projecting at right angles from the main part. 

LEEBOARD:  A board, or frame of planks, lowered over the side of a vessel to lessen her leeway when closehauled, by giving her greater draught. 

LEECH:  See 2d Leach. 

LEECH:  See Leach, v. t. 

LEECH:  The border or edge at the side of a sail. [Written also leach.] Leech line, a line attached to the leech ropes of sails, passing up through blocks on the yards, to haul the leeches by. Totten.  -- Leech rope, that part of the boltrope to which the side of a sail is sewed. 

LEECH:  Any one of numerous genera and species of annulose worms, belonging to the order Hirudinea, or Bdelloidea, esp. those species used in medicine, as Hirudo medicinalis of Europe, and allied species.  Note: In the mouth of bloodsucking leeches are three convergent, serrated jaws, moved by strong muscles. By the motion of these jaws a stellate incision is made in the skin, through which the leech sucks blood till it is gorged, and then drops off. The stomach has large pouches on each side to hold the blood. The common large bloodsucking leech of America (Macrobdella decora) is dark olive above, and red below, with black spots. Many kinds of leeches are parasitic on fishes; others feed upon worms and mollusks, and have no jaws for drawing blood. See Bdelloidea. Hirudinea, and Clepsine.  3. (Surg.)  A glass tube of peculiar construction, adapted for drawing blood from a scarified part by means of a vacuum. Horse leech, a less powerful European leech (Hæmopis vorax), commonly attacking the membrane that lines the inside of the mouth and nostrils of animals that drink at pools where it lives. 

LEECHCRAFT:  The art of healing; skill of a physician. [Archaic] Chaucer.  LEED; LEEDE Leed, Leede, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]  A caldron; a copper kettle. [Obs.] "A furnace of a leed." Chaucer. 

LEEF:  See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEEK:  A plant of the genus Allium (A. Porrum), having broadly linear succulent leaves rising from a loose oblong cylindrical bulb. The flavor is stronger than that of the common onion. Wild leek , in America, a plant (Allium tricoccum) with a cluster of ovoid bulbs and large oblong elliptical leaves. 

LEEME:  See Leme. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEEP:  of Leap. leaped. 

LEER:  To learn. [Obs.] See Lere, to learn. 

LEER:  Empty; destitute; wanting; as: (a) Empty of contents. "A leer stomach." Gifford. (b) Destitute of a rider; and hence, led, not ridden; as, a leer horse. B. Jonson. (c) Wanting sense or seriousness; trifling; trivolous; as, leer words. 

LEER:  An oven in which glassware is annealed. 

LEER:  To look with a leer; to look askance with a suggestive expression, as of hatred, contempt, lust, etc. ; to cast a sidelong lustful or malign look. I will leer him as a'comes by. Shak. The priest, above his book, Leering at his neighbor's wife. Tennyson. 

LEER:  To entice with a leer, or leers; as, to leer a man to ruin. Dryden. 

LEERE:  Tape or braid; an ornament. Halliwell. Leere side, the left side, as that on which a leere or ornament was worn. B. Jonson. 

LEERINGLY:  In a leering manner. 

LEES:  Dregs. See 2d Lee. 

LEES:  A leash. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEESE:  To lose. [Obs.] They would rather leese their friend than their jest. Lord Burleigh. 

LEESE:  To hurt. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

LEET:  of Let, to allow. Chaucer. 

LEET:  A portion; a list, esp. a list of candidates for an office. [Scot.] 

LEET:  A court-leet; the district within the jurisdiction of a court- leet; the day on which a court-leet is held. Shak.  Note: The original intent of the court-leet was to view the frankpledges or freemen within the liberty; hence called the view of frankpledge. Latterly it has fallen into almost entire disuse. Burrill. Warren's Blackstone. Leet ale, a feast or merrymaking in time of leet. [Obs.] 

LEET:  The European pollock. 

LEETMAN:  One subject to the jurisdiction of a court-leet. 

LEEWARD:  Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the part or side toward which the wind blows; -- opposed to windward; as, a leeward berth; a leeward ship.  -- n.  The lee side; the lee.  -- adv.  Toward the lee. 

LEEWAY:  The lateral movement of a ship to the leeward of her course; drift. 

LEFT:  of Leave. 

LEFT:  Of or pertaining to that side of the body in man on which the muscular action of the limbs is usually weaker than on the other side; -- opposed to right, when used in reference to a part of the body; as, the left ear. Also said of the corresponding side of the lower animals. Left bank of a river, that which is on the left hand of a person whose face is turned downstream.  -- Left bower. See under 2d Bower.  -- Left center, the members whose sympathies are, in the main, with the members of the Left, but who do not favor extreme courses, and on occasions vote with the government. They sit between the Center and the extreme Left.  -- Over the left shoulder, or Over the left, an old but still current colloquialism, or slang expression, used as an aside to indicate insincerity, negation, or disbelief; as, he said it, and it is true, -- over the left. 

LEFT:  Situated on the left; nearer the left hand than the right; as, the left-hand side; the left-hand road. Left-hand rope, rope laid up and twisted over from right to left, or against the sun; -- called also water-laid rope.  LEFT-HANDED Left"-hand`ed, a.  1. Having the left hand or arm stronger and more dexterous than the right; using the left hand and arm with more dexterity than the right.  2. Clumsy; awkward; unlucky; insincere; sinister; malicious; as, a left-handed compliment. The commendations of this people are not always left-handed and detractive. Landor.  3. Having a direction contrary to that of the hands of a watch when seen in front; -- said of a twist, a rotary motion, etc., looked at from a given direction. Left-handed marriage, a morganatic marriage. See Morganatic.  -- Left-handed screw, a screw constructed to advance away from the observer, when turned, as in a nut, with a left-handed rotation. An ordinary wood screw is right-handed.  LEFT-HANDEDNESS; LEFT-HANDINESS Left"-hand`ed*ness, Left"-hand`i*ness, n.  The state or quality of being left-handed; awkwardness. An awkward address, ungraceful attitudes and actions, and a certain left-handiness (if I may use the expression) proclaim low education. Chesterfield.  LEFT-OFF Left"-off", a.  Laid a side; cast-off. 

LEFTWARD:  Toward or on the left side. Rightward and leftward rise the rocks. Southey. 

LEFUL:  See Leveful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEG:  The course and distance made by a vessel on one tack or between tacks.  7. (Steam Boiler)  An extension of the boiler downward, in the form of a narrow space between vertical plates, sometimes nearly surrounding the furnace and ash pit, and serving to support the boiler; -- called also water leg.  8. (Grain Elevator)  The case containing the lower part of the belt which carries the buckets.  9. (Cricket)  A fielder whose position is on the outside, a little in rear of the batter. A good leg (Naut.), a course sailed on a tack which is near the desired course.  -- Leg bail, escape from custody by flight. [Slang] -- Legs of an hyperbola (or other curve) (Geom.), the branches of the curve which extend outward indefinitely.  -- Legs of a triangle, the sides of a triangle; -- a name seldom used unless one of the sides is first distinguished by some appropriate term; as, the hypothenuse and two legs of a right-angled triangle. On one's legs, standing to speak.  -- One's last legs. See under Last.  -- To have legs (Naut.), to have speed.  -- To stand on one's own legs, to support one's self; to be independent. 

LEG:  To use as a leg, with it as object: (a) To bow. [Obs.] (b) To run [Low] 

LEGAL:  Governed by the rules of law as distinguished from the rules of equity; as, legal estate; legal assets. Bouvier. Burrill. Legal cap. See under Cap.  -- Legal tender. (a) The act of tendering in the performance of a contract or satisfaction of a claim that which the law prescribes or permits, and at such time and place as the law prescribes or permits. (b) That currency, or money, which the law authorizes a debtor to tender and requires a creditor to receive. It differs in different countries.  Syn.  -- Lawful; constitutional; legitimate; licit; authorized. See Lawful. 

LEGALISM:  Strictness, or the doctrine of strictness, in conforming to law. 

LEGALIST:  One who practices or advocates strict conformity to law; in theology, one who holds to the law of works. See Legal, 2 (a). 

LEGALIZATION:  The act of making legal. 

LEGALIZE:  To interpret or apply in a legal spirit. 

LEGALLY:  In a legal manner. 

LEGANTINE:  See Legatine. 

LEGATARY:  A legatee. [R.] Ayliffe. 

LEGATEE:  One to whom a legacy is bequeathed. 

LEGATESHIP:  The office of a legate. 

LEGATINE:  Of or pertaining to a legate; as, legatine power. Holinshed.  2. Made by, proceeding from, or under the sanction of, a legate; as, a legatine constitution. Ayliffe. 

LEGATO:  Connected; tied; -- a term used when successive tones are to be produced in a closely connected, smoothly gliding manner. It is often indicated by a tie, thus staccato. 

LEGATOR:  A testator; one who bequeaths a legacy. Dryden. 

LEGATURA:  A tie or brace; a syncopation. 

LEGATURE:  Legateship. [Obs.]  LEG BRIDGE Leg bridge.  A type of bridge for small spans in which the floor girders are rigidly secured at their extremities to supporting steel legs, driven into the round as piling, or resting on mudsills. 

LEGE:  To allege; to assert. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher. 

LEGEMENT:  See Ledgment. 

LEGEND:  To tell or narrate, as a legend. Bp. Hall. 

LEGENDARY:  Of or pertaining to a legend or to legends; consisting of legends; like a legend; fabulous. "Legendary writers." Bp. Lloyd. Legendary stories of nurses and old women. Bourne. 

LEGER:  Lying or remaining in a place; hence, resident; as, leger ambassador. 

LEGER:  Light; slender; slim; trivial. [Obs. except in special phrases.] Bacon. Leger line (Mus.), a line added above or below the staff to extend its compass; -- called also added line. 

LEGERDEMAIN:  Sleight of hand; a trick of sleight of hand; hence, any artful deception or trick. He of legierdemayne the mysteries did know. Spenser. The tricks and legerdemain by which men impose upon their own souls. South. 

LEGERDEMAINIST:  One who practices sleight of hand; a prestidigitator. 

LEGERITY:  Lightness; nimbleness [Archaic] Shak. 

LEGGE:  To lay. [Obs.] 

LEGGE:  To lighten; to allay. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

LEGGED:  Having (such or so many) legs; -- used in composition; as, a long-legged man; a two-legged animal.  LEGGIADRO; LEGGIERO Leg`gi*a"dro, Leg`gi*e"ro, a. & adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)  Light or graceful; in a light, delicate, and brick style.  LEGGING; LEGGIN Leg"ging, Leg"gin, n. Etym: [From Leg.]  A cover for the leg, like a long gaiter. 

LEGGING:  , from Leg, v. t. 

LEGGY:  Having long legs. Thackeray. 

LEGHORN:  A straw plaiting used for bonnets and hats, made from the straw of a particular kind of wheat, grown for the purpose in Tuscany, Italy; -- so called from Leghorn, the place of exportation. 

LEGIBILITY:  The quality of being legible; legibleness. Sir. D. Brewster. 

LEGIBLENESS:  The state or quality of being legible. 

LEGIBLY:  In a legible manner. 

LEGIFIC:  Of or pertaining to making laws. Practically, in many cases, authority or legific competence has begun in bare power. J. Grote. 

LEGION:  A body of foot soldiers and cavalry consisting of different numbers at different periods, -- from about four thousand to about six thousand men, -- the cavalry being about one tenth.  2. A military force; an army; military bands.  3. A great number; a multitude. Where one sin has entered,legions will force their way through the same breach. Rogers.  4. (Taxonomy)  A group of orders inferior to a class. Legion of honor, an order instituted by the French government in 1802, when Bonaparte was First Consul, as a reward for merit, both civil and military. 

LEGIONARY:  Belonging to a legion; consisting of a legion or legions, or of an indefinitely great number; as, legionary soldiers; a legionary force. "The legionary body of error." Sir T. Browne. 

LEGIONARY:  A member of a legion. Milton. 

LEGIONED:  Formed into a legion or legions; legionary. Shelley. 

LEGIONRY:  A body of legions; legions, collectively. [R.] Pollok. 

LEGISLATE:  To make or enact a law or laws. Solon, in legislating for the Athenians, had an idea of a more perfect constitution than he gave them. Bp. Watson (1805). 

LEGISLATION:  The act of legislating; preparation and enactment of laws; the laws enacted. Pythagoras joined legislation to his philosophy. Lyttelton. 

LEGISLATIVELY:  In a legislative manner. 

LEGISLATOR:  A lawgiver; one who makes laws for a state or community; a member of a legislative body. The legislators in ancient and heroical times. Bacon. Many of the legislators themselves had taken an oath of abjuration of his Majesty's person and family. E. Phillips. 

LEGISLATORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a legislator or legislature. 

LEGISLATORSHIP:  The office of a legislator. Halifax.  LEGISLATRESS; LEGISLATRIX Leg"is*la`tress, Leg"is*la`trix, n.  A woman who makes laws. Shaftesbury. 

LEGISLATURE:  The body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with power to make and repeal laws; a legislative body. Without the concurrent consent of all three parts of the legislature, no law is, or can be, made. Sir M. Hale.  Note: The legislature of Great Britain consists of the Lords and Commons, with the king or queen, whose sanction is necessary to every bill before it becomes a law. The legislatures of most of the United States consist of two houses or branches; but the sanction or consent of the governor is required to give their acts the force of law, or a concurrence of two thirds of the two houses after he has refused his sanction and assigned his objections. 

LEGIST:  One skilled in the laws; a writer on law. Milman. J. Morley. 

LEGITIM:  The portion of movable estate to which the children are entitled upon the death of the father. 

LEGITIMACY:  The state, or quality, of being legitimate, or in conformity with law; hence, the condition of having been lawfully begotten, or born in wedlock. The doctrine of Divine Right, which has now come back to us, like a thief from transportation, under the alias of Legitimacy. Macaulay. 

LEGITIMATE:  To make legitimate, lawful, or valid; esp., to put in the position or state of a legitimate person before the law, by legal means; as, to legitimate a bastard child. To enact a statute of that which he dares not seem to approve, even to legitimate vice. Milton. 

LEGITIMATELY:  In a legitimate manner; lawfully; genuinely. 

LEGITIMATENESS:  The state or quality of being legitimate; lawfulness; genuineness. 

LEGITIMATIST:  See Legitimist. 

LEGITIMATIZE:  To legitimate. 

LEGITIMISM:  The principles or plans of legitimists. 

LEGITIMIZE:  To legitimate. 

LEGLESS:  Not having a leg.  LEG-OF-MUTTON Leg"-of-mut"ton, a.  Having the general shape or outline of a leg of mutton; as, a leg-of-mutton, or shoulder-of-mutton, sail.  LEGO-LITERARY Le"go-lit"er*a*ry, a. Etym: [See Legal, and Literary.]  Pertaining to the literature of law. 

LEGULEIAN:  Lawyerlike; legal. [R.] "Leguleian barbarism." De Quincey.  -- n.  A lawyer. 

LEGUME:  A pod dehiscent into two pieces or valves, and having the seed attached at one suture, as that of the pea.  Note: In the latter circumstance, it differs from a siliqua, in which the seeds are attached to both sutures. In popular use, a legume is called a pod, or cod; as, pea pod, or peas cod.  2. pl.  The fruit of leguminous plants, as peas, beans, lupines; pulse. 

LEGUMEN:  Same as Legume. 

LEGUMIN:  An albuminous substance resembling casein, found as a characteristic ingredient of the seeds of leguminous and grain- bearing plants. 

LEGUMINOUS:  Belonging to, or resembling, a very large natural order of plants (Leguminosæ), which bear legumes, including peas, beans, clover, locust trees, acacias, and mimosas. 

LEIGER:  See Leger, n., 2. [Obs.] Shak. 

LEIOTRICHAN:  Of or pertaining to the Leiotrichi.  -- n.  One of the Leiotrichi. 

LEIOTRICHI:  The division of mankind which embraces the smooth-haired races. 

LEIOTRICHOUS:  Having smooth, or nearly smooth, hair. 

LEIPOA:  A genus of Australian gallinaceous birds including but a single species (Leipoa ocellata), about the size of a turkey. Its color is variegated, drown, black, white, and gray. Called also native pheasant.  Note: It makes large mounds of sand and vegetable material, in which its eggs are laid to be hatched by the heat of the decomposing mass. 

LEIPOTHYMIC:  See Lipothymic.  LEISTER; LISTER Leis"ter, Lis"ter, n.  A spear armed with three or more prongs, for striking fish. [Scotland] 

LEISURABLY:  At leisure. [Obs.] 

LEISURE:  Unemployed; as, leisure hours. 

LEISURED:  Having leisure. "The leisured classes." Gladstone. 

LEISURELY:  Characterized by leisure; taking abundant tome; not hurried; as, a leisurely manner; a leisurely walk. 

LEISURELY:  In a leisurely manner. Addison. 

LEITMOTIF:  See Leading motive, under Leading, a. 

LEMAN:  A sweetheart, of either sex; a gallant, or a mistress; -- usually in a bad sense. [Archaic] Chaucer. Spenser. Shak. 

LEME:  A ray or glimmer of light; a gleam. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEME:  To shine. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

LEMMA:  A preliminary or auxiliary proposition demonstrated or accepted for immediate use in the demonstration of some other proposition, as in mathematics or logic. 

LEMMAN:  A leman. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEMMING:  Any one of several species of small arctic rodents of the genera Myodes and Cuniculus, resembling the meadow mice in form. They are found in both hemispheres.  Note: The common Northern European lemming (Myodes lemmus) is remarkable for making occasional devastating migrations in enormous numbers from the mountains into the lowlands. 

LEMNIAN:  Of or pertaining to the isle of Lemnos. Lemnian bole, Lemnian earth, an aluminous earth of a grayish yellow color; sphragide; -- formerly sold as medicine, having astringent properties.  -- Lemnian reddle, a reddle of firm consistence and deep red color; -- used by artificers in coloring.  LEMNISCATA; LEMNISCATE Lem`nis*ca"ta, Lem*nis"cate, n. Etym: [L. lemniscatus adorned with ribbons, fr. lemniscus a ribbon having down, Gr. (Geom.)  A curve in the form of the figure 8, with both parts symmetrical, generated by the point in which a tangent to an equilateral hyperbola meets the perpendicular on it drawn from the center. 

LEMNISCUS:  One of two oval bodies hanging from the interior walls of the body in the Acanthocephala. 

LEMON:  An oval or roundish fruit resembling the orange, and containing a pulp usually intensely acid. It is produced by a tropical tree of the genus Citrus,the common fruit known in commerce being that of the species C. Limonum or C. Medica (var. Limonum). There are many varieties of the fruit, some of which are sweet.  2. The tree which bears lemons; the lemon tree. Lemon grass (Bot.), a fragrant East Indian grass (Andropogon Shoenanthus, and perhaps other allied species), which yields the grass oil used in perfumery.  -- Lemon sole (Zoöl.), a yellow European sole (Solea aurantiaca).  -- Salts of lemon (Chem.), a white crystalline substance, inappropriately named, as it consists of an acid potassium oxalate and contains no citric acid, which is the characteristic acid of lemon; -- called also salis of sorrel. It is used in removing ink stains. See Oxalic acid, under Oxalic. [Colloq.] 

LEMONADE:  A beverage consisting of lemon juice mixed with water and sweetened. 

LEMUR:  One of a family (Lemuridæ) of nocturnal mammals allied to the monkeys, but of small size, and having a sharp and foxlike muzzle, and large eyes. They feed upon birds, insects, and fruit, and are mostly natives of Madagascar and the neighboring islands, one genus (Galago) occurring in Africa. The slow lemur or kukang of the East Indies is Nycticebus tardigradus. See Galago, Indris, and Colugo. 

LEMURES:  Spirits or ghosts of the departed; specters. The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint. Milton. 

LEMURIA:  A hypothetical land, or continent, supposed by some to have existed formerly in the Indian Ocean, of which Madagascar is a remnant. Herschel. 

LEMURID:  Same as Lemuroid.  LEMURIDOUS; LEMURINE Le*mu"ri*dous, Lem"u*rine, a. (Zoöl.)  Lemuroid. 

LEMUROID:  Like or pertaining to the lemurs or the Lemuroidea.  -- n.  One of the Lemuroidea. 

LEMUROIDEA:  A suborder of primates, including the lemurs, the aye-aye, and allied species. [Written also Lemuroida.] 

LENA:  A procuress. J. Webster.  LENARD RAYS Le*nard" rays. (Physics.)  Rays emanating from the outer surface of a plate composed of any material permeable by cathode rays, as aluminium, which forms a portion of a wall of a vacuum tube, or which is mounted within the tube and exposed to radiation from the cathode. Lenard rays are similar in all their known properties to cathode rays. So called from the German physicist Philipp Lenard (b. 1862), who first described them.  LENARD TUBE Lenard tube. (Elec.)  A tube for producing Lenard rays. 

LENDABLE:  Such as can be lent. Sherwood. 

LENDER:  One who lends. The borrower is servant to the lender. Prov. xxii. 7. 

LENDES:  See Lends. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LENDS:  Loins. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

LENE:  To lend; to grant; to permit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LENE:  Longer; longest; -- obsolete compar. and superl. of long. Chaucer. 

LENGTH:  To lengthen. [Obs.] Shak. 

LENGTHEN:  To extent in length; to make longer in extent or duration; as, to lengthen a line or a road; to lengthen life; -- sometimes followed by out. What if I please to lengthen out his date. Dryden. 

LENGTHEN:  To become longer. Locke. 

LENGTHFUL:  Long. [Obs.] Pope. 

LENGTHILY:  In a lengthy manner; at great length or extent. 

LENGTHINESS:  The state or quality of being lengthy; prolixity.  LENGTHWAYS; LENGTHWISE Length"ways`, Length"wise`, adv.  In the direction of the length; in a longitudinal direction. 

LENGTHY:  Having length; rather long or too long; prolix; not brief; -- said chiefly of discourses, writings, and the like. "Lengthy periods." Washington. "Some lengthy additions." Byron. "These would be details too lengthy." Jefferson. "To cut short lengthy explanations." Trench.  LENIENCE; LENIENCY Le"ni*ence, Le"ni*en*cy, n.  The quality or state of being lenient; lenity; clemency. 

LENIENT:  A lenitive; an emollient. 

LENIENTLY:  In a lenient manner. 

LENIFY:  To assuage; to soften; to Bacon. Dryden. 

LENIMENT:  An assuasive. [Obs.] 

LENITIVE:  Having the quality of softening or mitigating, as pain or acrimony; assuasive; emollient. 

LENITIVENESS:  The quality of being lenitive. 

LENITUDE:  The quality or habit of being lenient; lenity. [Obs.] Blount. 

LENITY:  The state or quality of being lenient; mildness of temper or disposition; gentleness of treatment; softness; tenderness; clemency; -- opposed to severity and rigor. His exceeding lenity disposes us to be somewhat too severe. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Gentleness; kindness; tenderness; softness; humanity; clemency; mercy.  LENNI-LENAPE Len`ni-Len*a"pe, n. pl. (Ethnol.)  A general name for a group of Algonquin tribes which formerly occupied the coast region of North America from Connecticut to Virginia. They included the Mohicans, Delawares, Shawnees, and several other tribes. 

LENO:  A light open cotton fabric used for window curtains. 

LENOCINANT:  Given to lewdness. [Obs.] 

LENS:  A piece of glass, or other transparent substance, ground with two opposite regular surfaces, either both curved, or one curved and the other plane, and commonly used, either singly or combined, in optical instruments, for changing the direction of rays of light, and thus magnifying objects, or otherwise modifying vision. In practice, the curved surfaces are usually spherical, though rarely cylindrical, or of some other figure. Lenses  Note: Of spherical lenses, there are six varieties, as shown in section in the figures herewith given: viz., a plano-concave; b double-concave; c plano-convex; d double-convex; converging concavo- convex, or converging meniscus; f diverging concavo-convex, or diverging meniscus. Crossed lens (Opt.), a double-convex lens with one radius equal to six times the other.  -- Crystalline lens. (Anat.) See Eye.  -- Fresnel lens (Opt.), a compound lens formed by placing around a central convex lens rings of glass so curved as to have the same focus; used, especially in lighthouses, for concentrating light in a particular direction; -- so called from the inventor.  -- Multiplying lens or glass (Opt.), a lens one side of which is plane and the other convex, but made up of a number of plane faces inclined to one another, each of which presents a separate image of the object viewed through it, so that the object is, as it were, multiplied.  -- Polyzonal lens. See Polyzonal. 

LENT:  imp. & p. p. of Lend. 

LENT:  A fast of forty days, beginning with Ash Wednesday and continuing till Easter, observed by some Christian churches as commemorative of the fast of our Savior. 

LENT:  See Lento. 

LENTAMENTE:  Slowly; in slow time. 

LENTANDO:  Slackening; retarding. Same as Rallentando. 

LENTEN:  Lent. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

LENTENTIDE:  The season of Lenten or Lent. 

LENTICELLATE:  Producing lenticels; dotted with lenticels. 

LENTICELLE:  Lenticel. 

LENTICULA:  A kind of eruption upon the skin; lentigo; freckle.  2. (Opt.)  A lens of small size.  3. (Bot.)  A lenticel. 

LENTICULAR:  Resembling a lentil in size or form; having the form of a double-convex lens. 

LENTICULARLY:  In the manner of a lens; with a curve. 

LENTIFORM:  Lenticular. 

LENTIGINOSE:  Bearing numerous dots resembling freckles. 

LENTIGINOUS:  Of or pertaining to lentigo; freckly; scurfy; furfuraceous. 

LENTIGO:  A freckly eruption on the skin; freckles. 

LENTIL:  A leguminous plant of the genus Ervum (Ervum Lens), of small size, common in the fields in Europe. Also, its seed, which is used for food on the continent.  Note: The lentil of the Scriptures probably included several other vetchlike plants. Lentil shell (Zoöl.), a small bivalve shell of the genus Ervillia, family Tellinidæ.  LENTISCUS; LENTISK Len*tis"cus, Len"tisk,, n. Etym: [L. lentiscus, lentiscum: cf. F. lentisque.] (Bot.)  A tree; the mastic. See Mastic. 

LENTITUDE:  Slowness; sluggishness. [Obs.]  LENT LILY Lent lily (Bot.),  the daffodil; -- so named from its blossoming in spring. 

LENTO:  Slow; in slow time; slowly; -- rarely written lente. 

LENTOID:  Having the form of a lens; lens-shaped. 

LENTOUS:  Viscid; viscous; tenacious. Spawn of a lentous and transparent body. Sir T. Browne.  L'ENVOI; L'ENVOY L'en`voi", or; L'en`voy" (, n. Etym: [F. le the + envei a sending. See Envoy.]  1. One or more detached verses at the end of a literary composition, serving to convey the moral, or to address the poem to a particular person; -- orig. employed in old French poetry. Shak.  2. A conclusion; a result. Massinger. 

LEOD:  People; a nation; a man. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Bp. Gibson. 

LEON:  A lion. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEONCED:  See Lionced. 

LEONESE:  Of or pertaining to Leon, in Spain.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or natives of Leon. 

LEONID:  One of the shooting stars which constitute the star shower that recurs near the fourteenth of November at intervals of about thirty- three years; so called because shooting stars appear on the heavens to move in lines directed from the constellation Leo. 

LEONINE:  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the lion; as, a leonine look; leonine repacity.  -- Le"o*nine*ly, adv. Leonine verse, a kind of verse, in which the end of the line rhymes with the middle; -- so named from Leo, or Leoninus, a Benedictine and canon of Paris in the twelfth century, who wrote largely in this measure, though he was not the inventor. The following line is an example: Gloria factorum temere conceditur horum. 

LEONTODON:  A genus of liguliflorous composite plants, including the fall dandelion (L. autumnale), and formerly the true dandelion; -- called also lion's tooth. 

LEOPARD:  A large, savage, carnivorous mammal (Felis leopardus). It is of a yellow or fawn color, with rings or roselike clusters of black spots along the back and sides. It is found in Southern Asia and Africa. By some the panther (Felis pardus) is regarded as a variety of leopard. Hunting leopard. See Cheetah. Leopard cat (Zoöl.) any one of several species or varieties of small, spotted cats found in Africa, Southern Asia, and the East Indies; esp., Felis Bengalensis.  -- Leopard marmot. See Gopher, 2.  LEOPARD'S BANE Leop"ard's bane`. (Bot.)  A name of several harmless plants, as Arnica montana, Senecio Doronicum, and Paris quadrifolia. 

LEOPARDWOOD:  See Letterwood. 

LEP:  of Leap. Leaped. Chaucer. 

LEPADITE:  Same as Lepadoid. 

LEPADOID:  A stalked barnacle of the genus Lepas, or family Lepadidæ; a goose barnacle. Also used adjectively. 

LEPAL:  A sterile transformed stamen. 

LEPAS:  Any one of various species of Lepas, a genus of pedunculated barnacles found attached to floating timber, bottoms of ships, Gulf weed, etc.; -- called also goose barnacle. See Barnacle. 

LEPER:  A person affected with leprosy. 

LEPERED:  Affected or tainted with leprosy. 

LEPERIZE:  To affect with leprosy. 

LEPEROUS:  Leprous; infectious; corrupting; poisonous. "The leperous distillment." Shak. 

LEPID:  Pleasant; jocose. [R.] The joyous and lepid consul. Sydney Smith. 

LEPIDINE:  An organic base, C9H6.N.CH3, metameric with quinaldine, and obtained by the distillation of cinchonine. 

LEPIDODENDRID:  One of an extinct family of trees allied to the modern club mosses, and including Lepidodendron and its allies. 

LEPIDODENDROID:  Allied to, or resembling, Lepidodendron.  -- n.  A lepidodendrid. 

LEPIDODENDRON:  A genus of fossil trees of the Devonian and Carboniferous ages, having the exterior marked with scars, mostly in quincunx order, produced by the separation of the leafstalks. 

LEPIDOGANOID:  Any one of a division (Lepidoganoidei) of ganoid fishes, including those that have scales forming a coat of mail. Also used adjectively. 

LEPIDOLITE:  A species of mica, of a lilac or rose-violet color, containing lithia. It usually occurs in masses consisting of small scales. See Mica. 

LEPIDOMELANE:  An iron-potash mica, of a raven-black color, usually found in granitic rocks in small six-sided tables, or as an aggregation of minute opaque scales. See Mica. 

LEPIDOPTER:  One of the Lepidoptera. 

LEPIDOPTERA:  An order of insects, which includes the butterflies and moths. They have broad wings, covered with minute overlapping scales, usually brightly colored.  Note: They have a tubular proboscis, or haustellum, formed by the two slender maxillæ. The labial palpi are usually large, and the proboscis, when not in use, can be coiled up spirally between them. The mandibles are rudimentary. The larvæ, called caterpillars, are often brightly colored, and they commonly feed on leaves. The adults feed chiefly on the honey of flowers.  LEPIDOPTERAL; LEPIDOPTEROUS Lep`i*dop"ter*al, Lep`i*dop"ter*ous, a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Lepidoptera. 

LEPIDOPTERIST:  One who studies the Lepidoptera. 

LEPIDOSAURIA:  A division of reptiles, including the serpents and lizards; the Plagiotremata. 

LEPIDOSIREN:  An eel-shaped ganoid fish of the order Dipnoi, having both gills and lungs. It inhabits the rivers of South America. The name is also applied to a related African species (Protopterus annectens). The lepidosirens grow to a length of from four to six feet. Called also doko.  LEPIDOTE; LEPIDOTED Lep"i*dote, Lep"i*do`ted, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  Having a coat of scurfy scales, as the leaves of the oleaster. 

LEPISMA:  A genus of wingless thysanurous insects having an elongated flattened body, covered with shining scales and terminated by seven unequal bristles. A common species (Lepisma saccharina) is found in houses, and often injures books and furniture. Called also shiner, silver witch, silver moth, and furniture bug. 

LEPISMOID:  Like or pertaining to the Lepisma. 

LEPORINE:  Of or pertaining to a hare; like or characteristic of, a hare. 

LEPRA:  Leprosy.  Note: The term lepra was formerly given to various skin diseases, the leprosy of modern authors being Lepra Arabum. See Leprosy. 

LEPRE:  Leprosy.[Obs.] Wyclif. 

LEPROSE:  Covered with thin, scurfy scales. 

LEPROSITY:  The state or quality of being leprous or scaly; also, a scale. Bacon. 

LEPROSY:  A cutaneous disease which first appears as blebs or as reddish, shining, slightly prominent spots, with spreading edges. These are often followed by an eruption of dark or yellowish prominent nodules, frequently producing great deformity. In one variety of the disease, anæsthesia of the skin is a prominent symptom. In addition there may be wasting of the muscles, falling out of the hair and nails, and distortion of the hands and feet with destruction of the bones and joints. It is incurable, and is probably contagious.Mycobacterium leprae, curable in most cases by therapy with a combination of antibiotics, but cases resistant to therapy are increasing.  Note: The disease now called leprosy, also designated as Lepra or Lepra Arabum, and Elephantiasis Græcorum, is not the same as the leprosy of the ancients. The latter was, indeed, a generic name for many varieties of skin disease (including our modern leprosy, psoriasis, etc.), some of which, among the Hebrews, rendered a person ceremonially unclean. A variety of leprosy of the Hebrews (probably identical with modern leprosy) was characterized by the presence of smooth, shining, depressed white patches or scales, the hair on which participated in the whiteness while the skin and adjacent flesh became insensible. It was incurable disease. 

LEPROUS:  Leprose.  -- Lep"rous*ly, adv.  -- Lep"rous*ness, n. 

LEPRY:  Leprosy. [Obs.] Holland. 

LEPTIFORM:  Having a form somewhat like leptus; -- said of active insect larvæ having three pairs of legs. See Larva. 

LEPTOCARDIA:  The lowest class of Vertebrata, including only the Amphioxus. The heart is represented only by a simple pulsating vessel. The blood is colorless; the brain, renal organs, and limbs are wanting, and the backbone is represented only by a simple, unsegmented notochord. See Amphioxus. [Written also Leptocardii.] 

LEPTOCARDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Leptocardia.  -- n.  One of the Leptocardia. 

LEPTODACTYL:  A bird or other animal having slender toes. [Written also lepodactyle.] 

LEPTODACTYLOUS:  , Having slender toes. 

LEPTOLOGY:  A minute and tedious discourse on trifling things. 

LEPTOMENINGITIS:  Inflammation of the pia mater or of the arachnoid membrane. 

LEPTORHINE:  Having the nose narrow; -- said esp. of the skull. Opposed to platyrhine. 

LEPTOSTRACA:  An order of Crustacea, including Nebalia and allied forms. 

LEPTOTHRIX:  A genus of bacteria, characterized by having their filaments very long, slender, and indistinctly articulated. 

LEPTOTHRIX:  Having the form of a little chain; -- applied to bacteria when, as in multiplication by fission, they form chain of filiform individuals. 

LEPTUS:  The six-legged young, or larva, of certain mites; -- sometimes used as a generic name. See Harvest mite, under Harvest. 

LEPTYNITE:  See Granulite. 

LERE:  Learning; lesson; lore. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LERE:  To learn; to teach. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LERE:  Empty. [Obs.] See Lere, a. 

LERE:  Flesh; skin. [Obs.] "His white leer." Chaucer. 

LERED:  Learned. [Obs.] " Lewed man or lered." Chaucer. 

LERNAEA:  A Linnæan genus of parasitic Entomostraca, -- the same as the family Lernæidæ.  Note: The genus is restricted by modern zoölogists to a limited number of species similar to Lernæa branchialis found on the gills of the cod. 

LERNAEACEA:  A suborder of copepod Crustacea, including a large number of remarkable forms, mostly parasitic on fishes. The young, however, are active and swim freely. See Illustration in Appendix. 

LERNEAN:  One of a family (Lernæidæ) of parasitic Crustacea found attached to fishes and other marine animals. Some species penetrate the skin and flesh with the elongated head, and feed on the viscera. See Illust. in Appendix. 

LEROT:  A small European rodent (Eliomys nitela), allied to the dormouse. 

LES:  A leash. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LESBIAN:  Of or pertaining to the island anciently called Lesbos, now Mitylene, in the Grecian Archipelago. 

LESBIANISM:  Unnatural sexual relations between women.  LESBIAN LOVE Lesbian love.  See Lesbianism. 

LESE:  To lose. [Obs.] Chaucer.  LESE-MAJESTY Lese`-maj"es*ty, n.  See Leze majesty. 

LESION:  A hurt; an injury. Specifically: (a) (Civil Law) Loss sustained from failure to fulfill a bargain or contract. Burrill. (b) (Med.) Any morbid change in the exercise of functions or the texture of organs. Dunglison.  -LESS -less. Etym: [AS. leás loose, false; akin to OS. l loose, false, D. los loose, loos false, sly, G. los loose, Icel. lauss loose, vacant, Goth. laus empty, vain, and also to E. loose, lose. sq. root127. See Lose, and cf. Loose, Leasing.]  A privative adjective suffix, denoting without, destitute of, not having; as witless, childless, fatherless. 

LESS:  Unless. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

LESS:  Smaller; not so large or great; not so much; shorter; inferior; as, a less quantity or number; a horse of less size or value; in less time than before.  Note: The substantive which less qualifies is often omitted; as, the purse contained less (money) than ten dollars. See Less, n. Thus in less [time] than a hundred years from the coming of Augustine, all England became Christian. E. A. Freeman. 

LESS:  Not so much; in a smaller or lower degree; as, less bright or loud; less beautiful. 

LESS:  To make less; to lessen. [Obs.] Gower. 

LESSEE:  The person to whom a lease is given, or who takes an estate by lease. Blackstone. 

LESSEN:  To make less; to reduce; to make smaller, or fewer; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; as, to lessen a kingdom, or a population; to lessen speed, rank, fortune. Charity . . . shall lessen his punishment. Calamy. St. Paul chose to magnify his office when ill men conspired to lessen it. Atterbury.  Syn.  -- To diminish; reduce; abate; decrease; lower; impair; weaken; degrade. 

LESSEN:  To become less; to shrink; to contract; to decrease; to be diminished; as, the apparent magnitude of objects lessens as we recede from them; his care, or his wealth, lessened. The objection lessens much, and comes to no more than this: there was one witness of no good reputation. Atterbury. 

LESSENER:  One who, or that which, lessens. His wife . . . is the lessener of his pain, and the augmenter of his pleasure. J. Rogers (1839). 

LESSER:  Less; smaller; inferior. God made . . . the lesser light to rule the night. Gen. i. 15.  Note: Lesser is used for less, now the compar. of little, in certain special instances in which its employment has become established by custom; as, Lesser Asia (i. e., Asia Minor), the lesser light, and some others; also in poetry, for the sake of the meter, and in prose where its use renders the passage more euphonious. The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace. Shak. The larger here, and there the lesser lambs. Pope. By the same reason may a man, in the state of nature, punish the lesser breaches of the law. Locke. 

LESSER:  Less. [Obs.] Shak. 

LESSES:  The leavings or dung of beasts. 

LESSON:  To teach; to instruct. Shak. To rest the weary, and to soothe the sad, Doth lesson happier men, and shame at least the bad. Byron. 

LESSOR:  One who leases; the person who lets to farm, or gives a lease. Blackstone. 

LEST:  To listen. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

LEST:  Lust; desire; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEST:  Last; least. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LESTER:  A dry sirocco in the Madeira Islands.  -LET -let.Etym: [From two French dim. endings -el (L. -ellus) and -et, as in bracelet.]  A noun suffix having a diminutive force; as in streamlet, armlet. 

LET:  To retard; to hinder; to impede; to oppose. [Archaic] He was so strong that no man might him let. Chaucer. He who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way. 2. Thess. ii. 7. Mine ancient wound is hardly whole, And lets me from the saddle. Tennyson. 

LET:  A stroke in which a ball touches the top of the net in passing over. 

LET:  Letting alone. The let-alone principle, doctrine, or policy. (Polit. Econ.) See Laissez faire. 

LETCH:  See Leach. 

LETCH:  Strong desire; passion. (Archaic.) Some people have a letch for unmasking impostors, or for avenging the wrongs of others. De Quincey. 

LETCHY:  See Leachy. 

LETE:  To let; to leave. [Obs.] 

LETEN:  of Lete. Chaucer. 

LETHAL:  One of the higher alcohols of the paraffine series obtained from spermaceti as a white crystalline solid. It is so called because it occurs in the ethereal salt of lauric acid. 

LETHAL:  Deadly; mortal; fatal. "The lethal blow." W. Richardson.  -- Le"thal*ly, adv. 

LETHALITY:  The quality of being lethal; mortality.  LETHARGIC; LETHARGICAL Le*thar"gic, Le*thar"gic*al, a. Etym: [L. lethargicus, Gr. léthargique. See Lethargy.]  Pertaining to, affected with, or resembling, lethargy; morbidly drowsy; dull; heavy.  -- Le*thar"gic*al*ly, v.  -- Le*thar"gic*al*ness, n.  -- Le*thar"gic*ness, n. 

LETHARGIZE:  To make lethargic. All bitters are poison, and act by stilling, and depressing, and lethargizing the irritability. Coleridge. 

LETHARGY:  To lethargize. [Obs.] Shak. 

LETHE:  Death.[Obs.] Shak. 

LETHE:  A river of Hades whose waters when drunk caused forgetfulness of the past.  2. Oblivion; a draught of oblivion; forgetfulness. 

LETHEAN:  Of or pertaining to Lethe; resembling in effect the water of Lethe. Milton. Barrow. 

LETHEED:  Caused by Lethe. " Letheed dullness." [Obs.] Shak. 

LETHEON:  Sulphuric ether used as an anæsthetic agent. [R.] 

LETHEONIZE:  To subject to the influence of letheon. [R. or Obs.] 

LETHIFEROUS:  Deadly; bringing death or destruction. 

LETHY:  Lethean. [Obs.] Marston.  LET-OFF Let"-off`, n. (Mach.)  A device for letting off, releasing, or giving forth, as the warp from the cylinder of a loom. 

LETTE:  To let; to hinder. See Let, to hinder. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LETTER:  One who lets or permits; one who lets anything for hire. 

LETTER:  One who retards or hinders. [Archaic.] 

LETTER:  A single type; type, collectively; a style of type. Under these buildings . . . was the king's printing house, and that famous letter so much esteemed. Evelyn.  6. pl.  Learning; erudition; as, a man of letters.  7. pl.  A letter; an epistle. [Obs.] Chaucer. Dead letter, Drop letter, etc. See under Dead, Drop, etc.  -- Letter book, a book in which copies of letters are kept.  -- Letter box, a box for the reception of letters to be mailed or delivered.  -- Letter carrier, a person who carries letters; a postman; specif., an officer of the post office who carries letters to the persons to whom they are addressed, and collects letters to be mailed.  -- Letter cutter, one who engraves letters or letter punches.  -- Letter lock, a lock that can not be opened when fastened, unless certain movable lettered rings or disks forming a part of in are in such a position (indicated by a particular combination of the letters) as to permit the bolt to be withdrawn. A strange lock that opens with AMEN. Beau. & Fl. -- Letter paper, paper for writing letters on; especially, a size of paper intermediate between note paper and foolscap. See Paper.  -- Letter punch, a steel punch with a letter engraved on the end, used in making the matrices for type.  -- Letters of administration (Law), the instrument by which an administrator or administratrix is authorized to administer the goods and estate of a deceased person.  -- Letter of attorney, Letter of credit, etc. See under Attorney, Credit, etc.  -- Letter of license, a paper by which creditors extend a debtor's time for paying his debts.  -- Letters close or clause (Eng. Law.), letters or writs directed to particular persons for particular purposes, and hence closed or sealed on the outside; -- distinguished from letters patent. Burrill.  -- Letters of orders (Eccl.), a document duly signed and sealed, by which a bishop makes it known that he has regularly ordained a certain person as priest, deacon, etc.  -- Letters patent, overt, or open (Eng. Law), a writing executed and sealed, by which power and authority are granted to a person to do some act, or enjoy some right; as, letters patent under the seal of England.  -- Letter-sheet envelope, a stamped sheet of letter paper issued by the government, prepared to be folded and sealed for transmission by mail without an envelope.  -- Letters testamentary (Law), an instrument granted by the proper officer to an executor after probate of a will, authorizing him to act as executor.  -- Letter writer. (a) One who writes letters. (b) A machine for copying letters. (c) A book giving directions and forms for the writing of letters. 

LETTER:  To impress with letters; to mark with letters or words; as, a book gilt and lettered. 

LETTERER:  One who makes, inscribes, or engraves, alphabetical letters. 

LETTERGRAM:  See Letter, above. 

LETTERN:  See Lecturn. 

LETTERPRESS:  Print; letters and words impressed on paper or other material by types; -- often used of the reading matter in distinction from the illustrations. Letterpress printing, printing directly from type, in distinction from printing from plates. 

LETTERURE:  Letters; literature. [Obs.] "To teach him letterure and courtesy." Chaucer. 

LETTERWOOD:  The beautiful and highly elastic wood of a tree of the genus Brosimum (B. Aubletii), found in Guiana; -- so called from black spots in it which bear some resemblance to hieroglyphics; also called snakewood, and leopardwood. It is much used for bows and for walking sticks. 

LETTISH:  Of or pertaining to the Letts.  -- n.  The language spoken by the Letts. See Lettic. 

LETTRURE:  See Letterure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LETTS:  An Indo-European people, allied to the Lithuanians and Old Prussians, and inhabiting a part of the Baltic provinces of Russia. 

LETTUCE:  A composite plant of the genus Lactuca (L. sativa), the leaves of which are used as salad. Plants of this genus yield a milky juice, from which lactucarium is obtained. The commonest wild lettuce of the United States is L. Canadensis. Hare's lettuce, Lamb's lettuce. See under Hare, and Lamb.  -- Lettuce opium. See Lactucarium.  -- Sea lettuce, certain papery green seaweeds of the genus Ulva. 

LETUARY:  Electuary. [Obs.] Chaucer.  LET-UP Let"-*up`, n. Etym: [See Let to forbear.]  Abatement; also, cessation; as, it blew a gale for three days without any let-up. [Colloq.]  LEUC- Leuc-  . Same as Leuco-. 

LEUCADENDRON:  A genus of evergreen shrubs from the Cape of Good Hope, having handsome foliage. Leucadendron argenteum is the silverboom of the colonists. 

LEUCANILINE:  A colorless, crystalline, organic base, obtained from rosaniline by reduction, and also from other sources. It forms colorless salts. 

LEUCHAEMIA:  See Leucocythæmia.  -- Leu*chæm"ic, a. [Written also leukæmia, leukæmic.]  LEUCIC; LEUCINIC Leu"cic, Leu*cin"ic, a. (Chem.)  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from leucin, and called also oxycaproic acid. 

LEUCIN:  A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance formed in the decomposition of albuminous matter by pancreatic digestion, by the action of boiling dilute sulphuric acid, and by putrefaction. It is also found as a constituent of various tissues and organs, as the spleen, pancreas, etc., and likewise in the vegetable kingdom. Chemically it is to be considered as amido-caproic acid. (CH3)2CH.CH2.CH(NH2)-COOH. L-leucine, the natural form, is present in most proteins. 

LEUCITE:  A mineral having a glassy fracture, occurring in translucent trapezohedral crystals. It is a silicate of alumina and potash. It is found in the volcanic rocks of Italy, especially at Vesuvius.  2. (Bot.)  A leucoplast. 

LEUCITIC:  Containing leucite; as, leucitic rocks. 

LEUCITOID:  The trapezohedron or tetragonal trisoctahedron; -- so called as being the form of the mineral leucite.  LEUCO-; LEUC- Leu"co-, Leuc-.Etym: [Gr.  A combining form signifying white, colorless; specif. (Chem.), denoting an extensive series of colorless organic compounds, obtained by reduction from certain other colored compounds; as, leucaniline, leucaurin, etc. 

LEUCOCYTE:  A colorless corpuscle, as one of the white blood corpuscles, or those found in lymph, marrow of hone, connective tissue, etc.  Note: They all consist of more or less spherical masses of protoplasm, without any surrounding membrane or wall, and are capable of motion.  LEUCOCYTHAEMIA; LEUCOCYTHEMIA Leu`co*cy*thæ"mi*a, Leu`co*cy*the"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)  A disease in which the white corpuscles of the blood are largely increased in number, and there is enlargement of the spleen, or the lymphatic glands; leuchæmia. 

LEUCOCYTOGENESIS:  The formation of leucocytes. 

LEUCOETHIOPIC:  White and black; -- said of a white animal of a black species, or the albino of the negro race. 

LEUCOETHIOPS:  An albino. [Also written leucoethiops.] 

LEUCOLINE:  A nitrogenous organic base from coal tar, and identical with quinoline. Cf. Quinoline. 

LEUCOMA:  A white opacity in the cornea of the eye; -- called also albugo. 

LEUCOMAINE:  An animal base or alkaloid, appearing in the tissue during life; hence, a vital alkaloid, as distinguished from a ptomaine or cadaveric poison. 

LEUCONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acid, obtained as a yellowish white gum by the oxidation of croconic acid. 

LEUCOPATHY:  The state of an albino, or of a white child of black parents. 

LEUCOPHANE:  A mineral of a greenish yellow color; it is a silicate of glucina, lime, and soda with fluorine. Called also leucophanite. 

LEUCOPHLEGMACY:  A dropsical habit of body, or the commencement of anasarca; paleness, with viscid juices and cold sweats. 

LEUCOPHLEGMATIC:  Having a dropsical habit of body, with a white bloated skin. 

LEUCOPHYLL:  A colorless substance isomeric with chlorophyll, contained in parts of plants capable of becoming green. Watts. 

LEUCOPHYLLOUS:  Having white or silvery foliage.  LEUCOPLAST; LEUCOPLASTID Leu"co*plast, Leu`co*plas"tid, n. Etym: [Leuco- + Gr. (Bot.)  One of certain very minute whitish or colorless granules occurring in the protoplasm of plants and supposed to be the nuclei around which starch granules will form. 

LEUCOPYRITE:  A mineral of a color between white and steel-gray, with a metallic luster, and consisting chiefly of arsenic and iron. 

LEUCORRHOEA:  A discharge of a white, yellowish, or greenish, viscid mucus, resulting from inflammation or irritation of the membrane lining the genital organs of the female; the whites. Dunglison. 

LEUCORYX:  A large antelope of North Africa (Oryx leucoryx), allied to the gemsbok. 

LEUCOSCOPE:  An instrument, devised by Professor Helmholtz, for testing the color perception of the eye, or for comparing different lights, as to their constituent color or their relative whiteness. 

LEUCOSOID:  Like or pertaining to the Leucosoidea, a tribe of marine crabs including the box crab or Calappa. 

LEUCOSPHERE:  The inner corona. [R.] 

LEUCOTURIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic substance of the uric acid group, called leucoturic acid or oxalantin. See Oxalantin. 

LEUCOUS:  White; -- applied to albinos, from the whiteness of their skin and hair. 

LEUCOXENE:  A nearly opaque white mineral, in part identical with titanite, observed in some igneous rocks as the result of the alteration of titanic iron. 

LEUKAEMIA:  Leucocythæmia.  LEUKE; LEUKENESS Leuke, a., Leuke"ness, n.  See Luke, etc. 

LEUKOPLAST:  See Leucoplast. 

LEUKOPLAST:  See Leucoplast. 

LEVANA:  A goddess who protected newborn infants. 

LEVANT:  Rising or having risen from rest; -- said of cattle. See Couchant and levant, under Couchant. 

LEVANT:  Eastern. [Obs.] Forth rush the levant and the ponent winds. Milton. 

LEVANT:  To run away from one's debts; to decamp. [Colloq. Eng.] Thackeray. 

LEVANTER:  One who levants, or decamps. [Colloq. Eng.] 

LEVANTER:  A strong easterly wind peculiar to the Mediterranean. W. H. Russell. 

LEVANTINE:  Of or pertaining to the Levant. J. Spencer. 

LEVANTINE:  A stout twilled silk fabric, formerly made in the Levant.  LEVARI FACIAS Le*va`ri fa"ci*as. Etym: [Law L., cause to be levied.]  A writ of execution at common law. 

LEVATION:  The act of raising; elevation; upward motion, as that produced by the action of a levator muscle. 

LEVATOR:  A muscle that serves to raise some part, as the lip or the eyelid.  2. (Surg.)  A surgical instrument used to raise a depressed part of the skull. 

LEVE:  Dear. See Lief. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEVE:  Same as 3d & 4th Leave. [Obs.] 

LEVE:  To live. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEVE:  To believe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEVE:  To grant; -- used esp. in exclamations or prayers followed by a dependent clause. [Obs.] God leve all be well. Chaucer. 

LEVECHE:  A dry sirocco of Spain. 

LEVEE:  To attend the levee or levees of. He levees all the great. Young. 

LEVEE:  An embankment to prevent inundation; as, the levees along the Mississippi; sometimes, the steep bank of a river. [U. S. ] 

LEVEE:  To keep within a channel by means of levees; as, to levee a river. [U. S.]  LEVEE EN MASSE Le*vée" en` masse". Etym: [F.]  See Levy in mass, under Levy, n. 

LEVEFUL:  Allowable; permissible; lawful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEVEL:  Of even tone; without rising or falling inflection. H. Sweet. Level line (Shipbuilding), the outline of a section which is horizontal crosswise, and parallel with the rabbet of the keel lengthwise. Level surface (Physics), an equipotential surface at right angles at every point to the lines of force. 

LEVELING:  The art or operation of using a leveling instrument for finding a horizontal line, for ascertaining the differences of level between different points of the earth's surface included in a survey, for establishing grades, etc., as in finding the descent of a river, or locating a line of railroad. Leveling instrument. See Surveyor's level, under Level, n.  -- Leveling staff, a graduated rod or staff used in connection with a leveling instrument for measuring differences of level between points. 

LEVELISM:  The disposition or endeavor to level all distinctions of rank in society. 

LEVELLY:  In an even or level manner. 

LEVELNESS:  The state or quality of being level. 

LEVEN:  Lightning. [Obs.] Wild thunder dint and fiery leven. Chaucer. 

LEVER:  More agreeable; more pleasing. [Obs.] Chaucer. To be lever than. See Had as lief, under Had. 

LEVER:  Bather. [Obs.] Chaucer. For lever had I die than see his deadly face. Spenser. 

LEVER:  A rigid piece which is capable of turning about one point, or axis (the fulcrum), and in which are two or more other points where forces are applied; -- used for transmitting and modifying force and motion. Specif., a bar of metal, wood, or other rigid substance, used to exert a pressure, or sustain a weight, at one point of its length, by receiving a force or power at a second, and turning at a third on a fixed point called a fulcrum. It is usually named as the first of the six mechanical powers, and is three kinds, according as either the fulcrum F, the weight W, or the power P. respectively, is situated between the other two, as in the figures.  2. (Mach.) (a) A bar, as a capstan bar, applied to a rotatory piece to turn it. (b) An arm on a rock shaft, to give motion to the shaft or to obtain motion from it. Compound lever, a machine consisting of two or more levers acting upon each other.  -- Lever escapement. See Escapement.  -- Lever jack. See Jack, n., 5.  -- Lever watch, a watch having a vibrating lever to connect the action of the escape wheel with that of the balance. Universal lever, a machine formed by a combination of a lever with the wheel and axle, in such a manner as to convert the reciprocating motion of the lever into a continued rectilinear motion of some body to which the power is applied. 

LEVERAGE:  The action of a lever; mechanical advantage gained by the lever. Leverage of a couple (Mech.), the perpendicular distance between the lines of action of two forces which act in parallel and opposite directions.  -- Leverage of a force, the perpendicular distance from the line in which a force acts upon a body to a point about which the body may be supposed to turn. 

LEVERET:  A hare in the first year of its age. 

LEVEROCK:  A lark. [Scot.] 

LEVERWOOD:  The American hop hornbeam (Ostrya Virginica), a small tree with very tough wood. 

LEVESEL:  A leafy shelter; a place covered with foliage. [Obs.] Behind the mill, under a levesel. Chaucer. 

LEVET:  A trumpet call for rousing soldiers; a reveille. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

LEVIABLE:  Fit to be levied; capable of being assessed and collected; as, sums leviable by course of law. Bacon. 

LEVIER:  One who levees. Cartwright. 

LEVIGABLE:  Capable of being levigated. 

LEVIGATE:  Made less harsh or burdensome; alleviated. [Obs.] Sir. T. Elyot. 

LEVIGATE:  To make smooth in various senses: (a) To free from grit; to reduce to an impalpable powder or paste. (b) To mix thoroughly, as liquids or semiliquids. (c) To polish. (d) To make smooth in action. " When use hath levigated the organs." Barrow. (e) Technically, to make smooth by rubbing in a moist condition between hard surfaces, as in grinding pigments. 

LEVIGATE:  Made smooth, as if polished. 

LEVIGATION:  The act or operation of levigating. 

LEVIN:  Lightning. [Obs.] Spenser. Levin brand, a thunderbolt. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LEVINER:  A swift hound. 

LEVIR:  A husband's brother; -- used in reference to levirate marriages.  LEVIRATE; LEVIRATICAL Lev"i*rate, Lev`i*rat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. levir a husband's brother, brother-in-law; akin to Gr. lévirat leviration.]  Of, pertaining to, or in accordance with, a law of the ancient Israelites and other tribes and races, according to which a woman, whose husband died without issue, was married to the husband's brother. The firstborn son of a leviratical marriage was reckoned and registered as the son of the deceased brother. Alford. 

LEVIRATION:  Levirate marriage or marriages. Kitto. 

LEVIROSTRES:  A group of birds, including the hornbills, kingfishers, and related forms. 

LEVITATE:  To rise, or tend to rise, as if lighter than the surrounding medium; to become buoyant; -- opposed to gravitate. Sir. J. Herschel. 

LEVITATE:  To make buoyant; to cause to float in the air; as, to levitate a table. [Cant] 

LEVITE:  One of the tribe or family of Levi; a descendant of Levi; esp., one subordinate to the priests (who were of the same tribe) and employed in various duties connected with the tabernacle first, and afterward the temple, such as the care of the building, bringing of wood and other necessaries for the sacrifices, the music of the services, etc.  2. A priest; so called in contempt or ridicule. 

LEVITICALLY:  After the manner of the Levites; in accordance with the levitical law. 

LEVITICUS:  The third canonical book of the Old Testament, containing the laws and regulations relating to the priests and Levites among the Hebrews, or the body of the ceremonial law. 

LEVITY:  A prefix from L. laevus, meaning: (a) Pertaining to, or toward, the left; as, levorotatory. (b) (Chem. & Opt.) Turning the plane of polarized light to the left; as, levotartaric acid; levoracemic acid; levogyratory crystals, etc. [Written also lævo-.] 

LEVOGYRATE:  Turning or twisting the plane of polarization towards the left, as levulose, levotartaric acid, etc. [Written also lævogyrate.] 

LEVOROTATION:  Rotation in the direction of an outgoing right-handed screw; counter-clockwise rotation; -- applied chiefly to the turning of the plane of polarization of light. 

LEVOROTATORY:  Turning or rotating the plane of polarization towards the left; levogyrate, as levulose, left handed quartz crystals, etc. [Written also lævorotatory.] 

LEVULIN:  A substance resembling dextrin, obtained from the bulbs of the dahlia, the artichoke, and other sources, as a colorless, spongy, amorphous material. It is so called because by decomposition it yields levulose. [Written also lævulin.] 

LEVULINIC:  Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid (called also acetyl- propionic acid), C5H8O3, obtained by the action of dilute acids on various sugars (as levulose). [Written also lævulinic.] 

LEVULOSAN:  An unfermentable carbohydrate obtained by gently heating levulose. 

LEVULOSE:  A sirupy variety of sugar, rarely obtained crystallized, occurring widely in honey, ripe fruits, etc., and hence called also fruit sugar. It is called levulose, because it rotates the plane of polarization to the left. [Written also lævulose.]C6H12O6.  Note: It is obtained, together with an equal quantity of dextrose, by the inversion of ordinary cane or beet sugar, and hence, as being an ingredient of invert sugar, is often so called. It is fermentable, nearly as sweet as cane sugar, and is metameric with dextrose. Cf. Dextrose. 

LEVY:  A name formerly given in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia to the Spanish real of one eight of a dollar (or 12 

LEVY:  The taking or seizure of property on executions to satisfy judgments, or on warrants for the collection of taxes; a collecting by execution. Levy in mass Etym: [F. levée en masse], a requisition of all able-bodied men for military service. 

LEVY:  To seize property, real or personal, or subject it to the operation of an execution; to make a levy; as, to levy on property; the usual mode of levying, in England, is by seizing the goods. To levy on goods and chattels, to take into custody or seize specific property in satisfaction of a writ.  LEVYNE; LEVYNITE Lev"yne, Lev"yn*ite, n. Etym: [From Mr. Levy, an English mineralogist.] (Min.)  A whitish, reddish, or yellowish, transparent or translucent mineral, allied to chabazite. 

LEW:  Lukewarm; tepid. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

LEWDSTER:  A lewd person. [Obs.] Shak.  LEWIS; LEWISSON Lew"is, Lew"is*son, n.  1. An iron dovetailed tenon, made in sections, which can be fitted into a dovetail mortise; -- used in hoisting large stones, etc.  2. A kind of shears used in cropping woolen cloth. Lewis hole, a hole wider at the bottom than at the mouth, into which a lewis is fitted. De Foe. 

LEX:  Law; as, lex talionis, the law of retaliation; lex terræ, the law of the land; lex fori, the law of the forum or court; lex loci, the law of the place; lex mercatoria, the law or custom of merchants. 

LEXICAL:  Of or pertaining to a lexicon, to lexicography, or words; according or conforming to a lexicon.  -- Lex"ic*al*ly, adv. 

LEXICOGRAPHER:  The author or compiler of a lexicon or dictionary. Every other author may aspire to praise; the lexicographer can only hope to escape reproach; and even this negative recompense has been yet granted to very few. Johnson.  LEXICOGRAPHIC; LEXICOGRAPHICAL Lex`i*co*graph"ic, Lex`i*co*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lexicographique.]  Of or pertaining to, or according to, lexicography.  -- Lex`i*co*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

LEXICOGRAPHIST:  A lexicographer. [R.] Southey. 

LEXICOGRAPHY:  The art, process, or occupation of making a lexicon or dictionary; the principles which are applied in making dictionaries. 

LEXICOLOGIST:  One versed in lexicology. 

LEXICOLOGY:  The science of the derivation and signification of words; that branch of learning which treats of the signification and application of words. 

LEXICON:  A vocabulary, or book containing an alphabetical arrangement of the words in a language or of a considerable number of them, with the definition of each; a dictionary; especially, a dictionary of the Greek, Hebrew, or Latin language. 

LEXICONIST:  A writer of a lexicon. [R.] 

LEXIGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to lexigraphy. 

LEXIGRAPHY:  The art or practice of defining words; definition of words. 

LEXIPHANIC:  Using, or interlarded with, pretentious words; bombastic; as, a lexiphanic writer or speaker; lexiphanic writing. 

LEXIPHANICISM:  The use of pretentious words, language, or style. 

LEXIPHARMIC:  See Alexipharmic. 

LEY:  , & i. To lay; to wager. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LEY:  Law. Abbott. 

LEY:  See Lye. 

LEY:  Grass or meadow land; a lea. 

LEY:  Fallow; unseeded. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  LEYDEN JAR; LEYDEN PHIAL Ley"den jar", Ley"den phi"al, (Elec.)  A glass jar or bottle used to accumulate electricity. It is coated with tin foil, within and without, nearly to its top, and is surmounted by a brass knob which communicates with the inner coating, for the purpose of charging it with electricity. It is so named from having been invented in Leyden, Holland. 

LEYSER:  Leisure. [Obs.] Chaucer.  LEZE MAJESTY Leze` maj"es*ty. Etym: [F. lese-majesté, fr. L. laesus, fem. laesa, injured (see Lesion) + majestas majesty; that is, crimen laesae majestatis.] [Written also lese majesty.] (Law)  Any crime committed against the sovereign power. 

LHERZOLITE:  An igneous rock consisting largely of chrysolite, with pyroxene and picotite (a variety of spinel containing chromium). 

LIABILITY:  the sum of one's pecuniary obligations; -- opposed to assets. Limited liability. See Limited company, under Limited. 

LIABLENESS:  Quality of being liable; liability. 

LIAGE:  Union by league; alliance. [Obs.] 

LIAISON:  A union, or bond of union; an intimacy; especially, an illicit intimacy between a man and a woman.  LIANE; LIANA Li*ane", Li*a"na, n. Etym: [F. liane; prob. akin to lien a band, fr. L. ligamen, fr. ligare to bind. Cf. Lien, n. ] (Bot.)  A luxuriant woody plant, climbing high trees and having ropelike stems. The grapevine often has the habit of a liane. Lianes are abundant in the forests of the Amazon region. 

LIAR:  A person who knowingly utters falsehood; one who lies. 

LIARD:  Gray. [Obs.] Chaucer.  Note: Used by Chaucer as an epithet of a gray or dapple gray horse. Also used as a name for such a horse. 

LIARD:  A French copper coin of one fourth the value of a sou. 

LIAS:  The lowest of the three divisions of the Jurassic period; a name given in England and Europe to a series of marine limestones underlying the Oölite. See the Chart of Geology. 

LIASSIC:  Of the age of the Lias; pertaining to the Lias Formation.  -- n.  Same as Lias. 

LIB:  To castrate. [Obs.] 

LIBAMENT:  Libation. [Obs.] Holland. 

LIBANT:  Sipping; touching lightly. [R.] Landor. 

LIBATION:  The act of pouring a liquid or liquor, usually wine, either on the ground or on a victim in sacrifice, in honor of some deity; also, the wine or liquid thus poured out. Dryden. A heathen sacrifice or libation to the earth. Bacon. 

LIBATORY:  Pertaining to libation. 

LIBBARD:  A leopard. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. Keats.  LIBBARD'S BANE Lib"bard's bane`  . Leopard's bane. [Obs.] 

LIBEL:  A malicious publication expressed either in print or in writing, or by pictures, effigies, or other signs, tending to expose another to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule. Such publication is indictable at common law.  Note: The term, in a more extended sense, includes the publication of such writings, pictures, and the like, as are of a blasphemous, treasonable, seditious, or obscene character. These also are indictable at common law.  4. (Law)  The crime of issuing a malicious defamatory publication.  5. (Civil Law & Courts of Admiralty)  A written declaration or statement by the plaintiff of his cause of action, and of the relief he seeks. 

LIBEL:  To proceed against by filing a libel, particularly against a ship or goods. 

LIBEL:  To spread defamation, written or printed; -- with against. [Obs.] What's this but libeling against the senate Shak. [He] libels now 'gainst each great man. Donne. 

LIBELANT:  One who libels; one who institutes a suit in an ecclesiastical or admiralty court. [Written also libellant.] Cranch. 

LIBELER:  One who libels. [Written also libeller.] " Libelers of others." Buckkminster. 

LIBELIST:  A libeler.  LI BELLA Li *bel"la, n. Etym: [L., dim. of libra balance. See Level, n.]  1. A small balance.  2. A level, or leveling instrument. 

LIBELLULID:  A dragon fly. 

LIBELLULOID:  Like or pertaining to the dragon fi 

LIBELOUS:  Containing or involving a libel; defamatory; containing that which exposes some person to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule; as, a libelous pamphlet. [Written also libellous.] -- Li"bel*ous*ly, adv. 

LIBER:  The inner bark of plants, lying next to the wood. It usually contains a large proportion of woody, fibrous cells, and is, therefore, the part from which the fiber of the plant is obtained, as that of hemp, etc. Liber cells, elongated woody cells found in the liber. 

LIBERAL:  One who favors greater freedom in political or religious matters; an opponent of the established systems; a reformer; in English politics, a member of the Liberal party, so called. Cf. Whig. 

LIBERALISM:  Liberal principles; the principles and methods of the liberals in politics or religion; specifically, the principles of the Liberal party. 

LIBERALIST:  A liberal. 

LIBERALISTIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, liberalism; as, liberalistic opinions. 

LIBERALIZATION:  The act of liberalizing. 

LIBERALIZE:  To make liberal; to free from narrow views or prejudices. To open and to liberalize the mind. Burke. 

LIBERALIZER:  One who, or that which, liberalizes. Emerson. 

LIBERALLY:  In a liberal manner. 

LIBERATE:  To release from restraint or bondage; to set at liberty; to free; to manumit; to disengage; as, to liberate a slave or prisoner; to liberate the mind from prejudice; to liberate gases.  Syn.  -- To deliver; free; release. See Deliver. 

LIBERATION:  The act of liberating or the state of being liberated. This mode of analysis requires perfect liberation from all prejudged system. Pownall. 

LIBERATOR:  One who, or that which, liberates; a deliverer. 

LIBERATORY:  Tending, or serving, to liberate. [R.] 

LIBERTARIAN:  Pertaining to liberty, or to the doctrine of free will, as opposed to the doctrine of necessity. 

LIBERTARIAN:  One who holds to the doctrine of free will. 

LIBERTARIANISM:  Libertarian principles or doctrines. 

LIBERTINAGE:  Libertinism; license. [R.] 

LIBERTINE:  A manumitted slave; a freedman; also, the son of a freedman.  2. (Eccl. Hist.)  One of a sect of Anabaptists, in the fifteenth and early part of the sixteenth century, who rejected many of the customs and decencies of life, and advocated a community of goods and of women.  3. One free from restraint; one who acts according to his impulses and desires; now, specifically, one who gives rein to lust; a rake; a debauchee. Like a puffed and reckless libertine, Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads. Shak.  4. A defamatory name for a freethinker. [Obsoles.] 

LIBERTY:  A curve or arch in a bit to afford room for the tongue of the horse.  10. (Naut.)  Leave of absence; permission to go on shore. At liberty. (a) Unconfined; free. (b) At leisure.  -- Civil liberty, exemption from arbitrary interference with person, opinion, or property, on the part of the government under which one lives, and freedom to take part in modifying that government or its laws.  -- Liberty bell. See under Bell.  -- Liberty cap. (a) The Roman pileus which was given to a slave at his manumission. (b) A limp, close-fitting cap with which the head of representations of the goddess of liberty is often decked. It is sometimes represented on a spear or a liberty pole.  -- Liberty of the press, freedom to print and publish without official supervision. Liberty party, the party, in the American Revolution, which favored independence of England; in more recent usage, a party which favored the emancipation of the slaves.  -- Liberty pole, a tall flagstaff planted in the ground, often surmounted by a liberty cap. [U. S.] -- Moral liberty, that liberty of choice which is essential to moral responsibility.  -- Religious liberty, freedom of religious opinion and worship.  Syn.  -- Leave; permission; license.  -- Liberty, Freedom. These words, though often interchanged, are distinct in some of of their applications. Liberty has reference to previous restraint; freedom, to the simple, unrepressed exercise of our powers. A slave is set at liberty; his master had always been in a state of freedom. A prisoner under trial may ask liberty (exemption from restraint) to speak his sentiments with freedom (the spontaneous and bold utterance of his feelings), The liberty of the press is our great security for freedom of thought. 

LIBETHENITE:  A mineral of an olive-green color, commonly in orthorhombic crystals. It is a hydrous phosphate of copper. 

LIBIDINIST:  One given to lewdness. 

LIBIDINOSITY:  The state or quality of being libidinous; libidinousness. Skelton. 

LIBIDINOUS:  Having lustful desires; characterized by lewdness; sensual; lascivious.  -- Li*bid"i*nous*ly, adv.  -- Li*bid"i*nous*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Lewd; lustful; lascivious; unchaste; impure; sensual; licentious; lecherous; salacious.  LIBKEN; LIBKIN Lib"ken, Lib"kin, n. Etym: [AS. libban, F. live, v. i. + -kin.]  A house or lodging. [Old Slang] B. Jonson. 

LIBRAL:  Of a pound weight. [Obs.] Johnson. 

LIBRARIANSHIP:  The office of a librarian. 

LIBRATE:  To vibrate as a balance does before resting in equilibrium; hence, to be poised. Their parts all liberate on too nice a beam. Clifton. 

LIBRATE:  To poise; to balance. 

LIBRATION:  A real or apparent libratory motion, like that of a balance before coming to rest. Libration of the moon, any one of those small periodical changes in the position of the moon's surface relatively to the earth, in consequence of which narrow portions at opposite limbs become visible or invisible alternately. It receives different names according to the manner in which it takes place; as: (a) Libration in longitude, that which, depending on the place of the moon in its elliptic orbit, causes small portions near the eastern and western borders alternately to appear and disappear each month. (b) Libration in latitude, that which depends on the varying position of the moon's axis in respect to the spectator, causing the alternate appearance and disappearance of either pole. (c) Diurnal or parallactic libration, that which brings into view on the upper limb, at rising and setting, some parts not in the average visible hemisphere. 

LIBRATORY:  Balancing; moving like a balance, as it tends to an equipoise or level. 

LIBRETTIST:  One who makes a libretto. 

LIBRIFORM:  Having the form of liber, or resembling liber. Libriform cells, peculiar wood cells which are very slender and relatively thick- walled, and occasionally are furnished with bordered pits. Goodale. 

LIBYAN:  Of or pertaining to Libya, the ancient name of that part of Africa between Egypt and the Atlantic Ocean, or of Africa as a whole. 

LICE:  pl. of Louse. 

LICENSABLE:  That can be licensed. 

LICENSE:  To permit or authorize by license; to give license to; as, to license a man to preach. Milton. Shak. 

LICENSED:  Having a license; permitted or authorized by license; as, a licensed victualer; a licensed traffic. Licensed victualer, one who has a license to keep an in or eating house; esp., a victualer who has a license to sell intoxicating liquors. 

LICENSEE:  The person to whom a license is given. 

LICENSER:  One who gives a license; as, a licenser of the press. 

LICENSURE:  A licensing. [R.] 

LICENTIATE:  To give a license to. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 

LICH:  Like. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

LICH:  A dead body; a corpse. [Obs.] Lich fowl (Zoöl.), the European goatsucker; -- called also lich owl.  -- Lich gate, a covered gate through which the corpse was carried to the church or burial place, and where the bier was placed to await clergyman; a corpse gate. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  -- Lich wake, the wake, or watching, held over a corpse before burial. [Prov Eng.] Chaucer.  -- Lich wall, the wall of a churchyard or burying ground.  -- Lich way, the path by which the dead are carried to the grave. [Prov. Eng.] 

LICHEN:  One of a class of cellular, flowerless plants, (technically called Lichenes), having no distinction of leaf and stem, usually of scaly, expanded, frond-like forms, but sometimes erect or pendulous and variously branched. They derive their nourishment from the air, and generate by means of spores. The species are very widely distributed, and form irregular spots or patches, usually of a greenish or yellowish color, upon rocks, trees, and various bodies, to which they adhere with great tenacity. They are often improperly called rock moss or tree moss.  Note: A favorite modern theory of lichens (called after its inventor the Schwendener hypothesis), is that they are not autonomous plants, but that they consist of ascigerous fungi, parasitic on algæ. Each lichen is composed of white filaments and green, or greenish, rounded cells, and it is argued that the two are of different nature, the one living at the expense of the other. See Hyphæ, and Gonidia.  2. (Med.)  A name given to several varieties of skin disease, esp. to one characterized by the eruption of small, conical or flat, reddish pimples, which, if unchecked, tend to spread and produce great and even fatal exhaustion. 

LICHENED:  Belonging to, or covered with, lichens. Tennyson. 

LICHENIC:  Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, lichens. Lichenic acid. (a) An organic acid, C14H24O3 obtained from Iceland moss. (b) An old name of fumaric acid. 

LICHENIFORM:  Having the form of a lichen. 

LICHENIN:  A substance isomeric with starch, extracted from several species of moss and lichen, esp. from Iceland moss.  LICHENOGRAPHIC; LICHENOGRAPHICAL Li"chen*o*graph"ic, Li`chen*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lichénographique.]  Of or pertaining to lichenography. 

LICHENOGRAPHIST:  One who describes lichens; one versed in lichenography. 

LICHENOGRAPHY:  A description of lichens; the science which illustrates the natural history of lichens. 

LICHENOLOGIST:  One versed in lichenology. 

LICHENOLOGY:  The science which treats of lichens. 

LICHENOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, lichens; abounding in lichens; covered with lichens. G. Eliot. 

LICHI:  See Litchi. 

LICHWALE:  The gromwell. 

LICHWORT:  An herb, the wall pellitory. See Pellitory. 

LICIT:  Lawful. "Licit establishments." Carlyle.  -- Lic"it*ly, adv.  -- Lic"it*ness, n. 

LICITATION:  The act of offering for sale to the highest bidder. [R.] 

LICK:  To strike with repeated blows for punishment; to flog; to whip or conquer, as in a pugilistic encounter. [Colloq. or Low] Carlyle. Thackeray. 

LICK:  A slap; a quick stroke.[Colloq.] "A lick across the face." Dryden. 

LICKER:  One who, or that which, licks. Licker in (Carding Machine), the drum, or cylinder, by which the lap is taken from the feed rollers. 

LICKEROUS:  Lickerish; eager; lustful. [Obs.] -- Lick"er*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LICKPENNY:  A devourer or absorber of money. "Law is a lickpenny." Sir W. Scott.  LICK-SPIGOT Lick"-spig`ot, n.  A tapster. [Obs.]  LICK-SPITTLE Lick"-spit`tle, n.  An abject flatterer or parasite. Theodore Hook. 

LICORICE:  A plant of the genus Glycyrrhiza (G. glabra), the root of which abounds with a juice, and is much used in demulcent compositions.  2. The inspissated juice of licorice root, used as a confection and medicinal purposes. Licorice fern (Bot.), a name of several kinds of polypody which have rootstocks of a sweetish flavor.  -- Licorice sugar. (Chem.) See Glycyrrhizin.  -- Licorice weed (Bot.), the tropical plant Scapania aulcis.  -- Mountain licorice (Bot.), a kind of clover (Trifolium alpinum), found in the Alps. It has large purplish flowers and a sweetish perennial rootstock.  -- Wild licorice. (Bot.) (a) The North American perennial herb Glycyrrhiza lepidota. (b) Certain broad-leaved cleavers (Galium circæzans and G. lanceolatum). (c) The leguminous climber Abrus precatorius, whose scarlet and black seeds are called black-eyed Susans. Its roots are used as a substitute for those of true licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra). 

LICOROUS:  See Lickerish.  -- Lic"o*rous*ness, n. [Obs.] Herbert. 

LICOUR:  Liquor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LICTOR:  An officer who bore an ax and fasces or rods, as ensigns of his office. His duty was to attend the chief magistrates when they appeared in public, to clear the way, and cause due respect to be paid to them, also to apprehend and punish criminals. Lictors and rods, the ensigns of their power. Milton. 

LIDDED:  Covered with a lid. Keats. 

LIDGE:  Same Ledge.[Obs.] Spenser. 

LIDLESS:  Having no lid, or not covered with the lids, as the eyes; hence, sleepless; watchful. A lidless watcher of the public weal. Tennyson. 

LIE:  See Lye. 

LIE:  To utter falsehood with an intention to deceive; to say or do that which is intended to deceive another, when he a right to know the truth, or when morality requires a just representation. 

LIE:  To be sustainable; to be capable of being maintained. "An appeal lies in this case." Parsons.  Note: Through ignorance or carelessness speakers and writers often confuse the forms of the two distinct verbs lay and lie. Lay is a transitive verb, and has for its preterit laid; as, he told me to lay it down, and I laid it down. Lie is intransitive, and has for its preterit lay; as, he told me to lie down, and I lay down. Some persons blunder by using laid for the preterit of lie; as, he told me to lie down, and I laid down. So persons often say incorrectly, the ship laid at anchor; they laid by during the storm; the book was laying on the shelf, etc. It is only necessary to remember, in all such cases, that laid is the preterit of lay, and not of lie. To lie along the shore (Naut.), to coast, keeping land in sight.  -- To lie at the door of, to be imputable to; as, the sin, blame, etc., lies at your door.  -- To lie at the heart, to be an object of affection, desire, or anxiety. Sir W. Temple.  -- To lie at the mercy of, to be in the power of.  -- To lie by. (a) To remain with; to be at hand; as, he has the manuscript lying by him. (b) To rest; to intermit labor; as, we lay by during the heat of the day.  -- To lie hard or heavy, to press or weigh; to bear hard.  -- To lie in, to be in childbed; to bring forth young.  -- To lie in one, to be in the power of; to belong to. "As much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men." Rom. xii. 18.  -- To lie in the way, to be an obstacle or impediment.  -- To lie in wait , to wait in concealment; to lie in ambush.  -- To lie on or upon. (a) To depend on; as, his life lies on the result. (b) To bear, rest, press, or weigh on.  -- To lie low, to remain in concealment or inactive. [Slang] -- To lie on hand, To lie on one's hands, to remain unsold or unused; as, the goods are still lying on his hands; they have too much time lying on their hands.  -- To lie on the head of, to be imputed to. What he gets more of her than sharp words, let it lie on my head. Shak. -- To lie over. (a) To remain unpaid after the time when payment is due, as a note in bank. (b) To be deferred to some future occasion, as a resolution in a public deliberative body.  -- To lie to (Naut.), to stop or delay; especially, to head as near the wind as possible as being the position of greatest safety in a gale; -- said of a ship. Cf. To bring to, under Bring.  -- To lie under, to be subject to; to suffer; to be oppressed by.  -- To lie with. (a) To lodge or sleep with. (b) To have sexual intercourse with. (c) To belong to; as, it lies with you to make amends. 

LIE:  The position or way in which anything lies; the lay, as of land or country. J. H. Newman. He surveyed with his own eyes . . . the lie of the country on the side towards Thrace. Jowett (Thucyd.).  LIEBERKUHN; LIEBERKUEHN Lie"ber*kühn, n. Etym: [Named after a German physician and instrument maker, J. n. Lieberkühn.] (Optics)  A concave metallic mirror attached to the object-glass end of a microscope, to throw down light on opaque objects; a reflector.  LIEBERKUHN'S GLANDS; LIEBERKUEHN'S GLANDS Lie"ber*kühn's glands`. Etym: [See Lieberkühn.] (Anat.)  The simple tubular glands of the small intestines; -- called also crypts of Lieberkühn. 

LIED:  A lay; a German song. It differs from the French chanson, and the Italian canzone, all three being national. The German Lied is perhaps the most faithful reflection of the national sentiment. Grove. 

LIEDERKRANZ:  Lit., wreath of songs; -- used as the title of a group of songs, and esp. as the common name for German vocal clubs of men. 

LIEDERTAFEL:  A popular name for any society or club which meets for the practice of male part songs. 

LIEF:  Same as Lif. 

LIEF:  Pleasing; agreeable; acceptable; preferable. [Obs.] See Lief, adv., and Had as lief, under Had. Full lief me were this counsel for to hide. Chaucer. Death me liefer were than such despite. Spenser.  3. Willing; disposed. [Obs.] I am not lief to gab. Chaucer. He up arose, however lief or loth. Spenser. 

LIEF:  A dear one; a sweetheart. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LIEF:  Gladly; willingly; freely; -- now used only in the phrases, had as lief, and would as lief; as, I had, or would, as lief go as not. All women liefest would Be sovereign of man's love. Gower. I had as lief the town crier spoke my lines. Shak. Far liefer by his dear hand had I die. Tennyson.  Note: The comparative liefer with had or would, and followed by the infinitive, either with or without the sign to, signifies prefer, choose as preferable, would or had rather. In the 16th century rather was substituted for liefer in such constructions in literary English, and has continued to be generally so used. See Had as lief, Had rather, etc. , under Had. 

LIEFSOME:  Pleasing; delightful. [Obs.] 

LIEGANCE:  Same as Ligeance. 

LIEGE:  Full; perfect; complete; pure. Burrill. Liege homage (Feudal Custom), that homage of one sovereign or prince to another which acknowledged an obligation of fealty and services.  -- Liege poustie Etym: [L. legitima potestas] (Scots Law), perfect, i. e., legal, power; specif., having health requisite to do legal acts.  -- Liege widowhood, perfect, i. e., pure, widowhood. [Obs.] 

LIEGEMAN:  Same as Liege, n., 2. Chaucer. Spenser. 

LIEGER:  A resident ambassador. [Obs.] See Leger. Denham. 

LIEGIANCY:  See Ligeance. 

LIEN:  of Lie. See lain. Ps. lxviii. 13. 

LIEN:  A legal claim; a charge upon real or personal property for the satisfaction of some debt or duty; a right in one to control or hold and retain the property of another until some claim of the former is paid or satisfied. 

LIENAL:  Of or pertaining to the spleen; splenic. 

LIENCULUS:  One of the small nodules sometimes found in the neighborhood of the spleen; an accessory or supplementary spleen.  LIENO-INTESTINAL Li*e`no-in*tes"ti*nal, a. Etym: [l. lien the spleen + E. intestinal.] (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to the spleen and intestine; as, the lieno- intestinal vein of the frog. 

LIENTERIC:  Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, a lientery.  -- n. (Med.)  A lientery. Grew. 

LIENTERY:  A diarrhea, in which the food is discharged imperfectly digested, or with but little change. Dunglison. 

LIER:  One who lies down; one who rests or remains, as in concealment. There were liers in a ambush against him. Josh. viii. 14.  LIERNE RIB Lierne" rib`. Etym: [F. lierne.] (Arch.)  In Gothic vaulting, any rib which does not spring from the impost and is not a ridge rib, but passes from one boss or intersection of the principal ribs to another. 

LIEU:  Place; room; stead; -- used only in the phrase in lieu of, that is, instead of. The plan of extortion had been adopted in lieu of the scheme of confiscation. Burke. 

LIEUTENANT:  . An army officer in rank next below a general and next above a major general.  Note: In the United States, before the civil war, this rank had been conferred only on George Washington and (in brevet) on Winfield Scott. In 1864 it was revived by Congress and conferred on Ulysses S. Grant, and subsequently, by promotion, on William T. Sherman and Philip H. Sheridan, each of whom was advanced to the rank of general of the army. When Sheridan was made general (in 1888) the rank of lieutenant general was suffered to lapse. See General. 

LIEUTENANTRY:  See Lieutenancy. [Obs.] 

LIEUTENANTSHIP:  Same as Lieutenancy, 1. 

LIEVE:  Same as Lief. 

LIF:  The fiber by which the petioles of the date palm are bound together, from which various kinds of cordage are made. 

LIFE:  The potential principle, or force, by which the organs of animals and plants are started and continued in the performance of their several and coöperative functions; the vital force, whether regarded as physical or spiritual.  4. Figuratively: The potential or animating principle, also, the period of duration, of anything that is conceived of as resembling a natural organism in structure or functions; as, the life of a state, a machine, or a book; authority is the life of government.  5. A certain way or manner of living with respect to conditions, circumstances, character, conduct, occupation, etc.; hence, human affairs; also, lives, considered collectively, as a distinct class or type; as, low life; a good or evil life; the life of Indians, or of miners. That which before us lies in daily life. Milton. By experience of life abroad in the world. Ascham. Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime. Longfellow. 'T is from high life high characters are drawn. Pope  6. Animation; spirit; vivacity; vigor; energy. No notion of life and fire in fancy and in words. Felton. That gives thy gestures grace and life. Wordsworth.  7. That which imparts or excites spirit or vigor; that upon which enjoyment or success depends; as, he was the life of the company, or of the enterprise.  8. The living or actual form, person, thing, or state; as, a picture or a description from, the life.  9. A person; a living being, usually a human being; as, many lives were sacrificed.  10. The system of animal nature; animals in general, or considered collectively. Full nature swarms with life. Thomson.  11. An essential constituent of life, esp: the blood. The words that I speak unto you . . . they are life. John vi. 63. The warm life came issuing through the wound. Pope  12. A history of the acts and events of a life; a biography; as, Johnson wrote the life of Milton.  13. Enjoyment in the right use of the powers; especially, a spiritual existence; happiness in the favor of God; heavenly felicity.  14. Something dear to one as one's existence; a darling; -- used as a term of endearment.  Note: Life forms the first part of many compounds, for the most part of obvious meaning; as, life-giving, life-sustaining, etc. Life annuity, an annuity payable during one's life.  -- Life arrow, Life rocket, Life shot, an arrow, rocket, or shot, for carrying an attached line to a vessel in distress in order to save life.  -- Life assurance. See Life insurance, below.  -- Life buoy. See Buoy.  -- Life car, a water-tight boat or box, traveling on a line from a wrecked vessel to the shore. In it person are hauled through the waves and surf.  -- Life drop, a drop of vital blood. Byron.  -- Life estate (Law), an estate which is held during the term of some certain person's life, but does not pass by inheritance.  -- Life everlasting (Bot.), a plant with white or yellow persistent scales about the heads of the flowers, as Antennaria, and Gnaphalium; cudweed.  -- Life of an execution (Law), the period when an execution is in force, or before it expires.  -- Life guard. (Mil.) See under Guard.  -- Life insurance, the act or system of insuring against death; a contract by which the insurer undertakes, in consideration of the payment of a premium (usually at stated periods), to pay a stipulated sum in the event of the death of the insured or of a third person in whose life the insured has an interest.  -- Life interest, an estate or interest which lasts during one's life, or the life of another person, but does not pass by inheritance.  -- Life land (Law), land held by lease for the term of a life or lives.  -- Life line. (a) (Naut.) A line along any part of a vessel for the security of sailors. (b) A line attached to a life boat, or to any life saving apparatus, to be grasped by a person in the water.  -- Life rate, rate of premium for insuring a life.  -- Life rent, the rent of a life estate; rent or property to which one is entitled during one's life.  -- Life school, a school for artists in which they model, paint, or draw from living models.  -- Lifetable, a table showing the probability of life at different ages.  -- To lose one's life, to die.  -- To seek the life of, to seek to kill.  -- To the life, so as closely to resemble the living person or the subject; as, the portrait was drawn to the life. 

LIFEBOAT:  A strong, buoyant boat especially designed for saving the lives of shipwrecked people. 

LIFEFUL:  Full of vitality. Spenser.  LIFE-GIVING Life"-giv`ing, a.  Giving life or spirit; having power to give life; inspiriting; invigorating. 

LIFEHOLD:  Land held by a life estate. 

LIFELESS:  Destitute of life, or deprived of life; not containing, or inhabited by, living beings or vegetation; dead, or apparently dead; spiritless; powerless; dull; as, a lifeless carcass; lifeless matter; a lifeless desert; a lifeless wine; a lifeless story.  -- Life"less*ly, adv.  -- Life"less*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Dead; soulless; inanimate; torpid; inert; inactive; dull; heavy; unanimated; spiritless; frigid; pointless; vapid; flat; tasteless.  -- Lifeless, Dull, Inanimate, Dead. In a moral sense, lifeless denotes a want of vital energy; inanimate, a want of expression as to any feeling that may be possessed; dull implies a torpor of soul which checks all mental activity; dead supposes a destitution of feeling. A person is said to be lifeless who has lost the spirits which he once had; he is said to be inanimate when he is naturally wanting in spirits; one is dull from an original deficiency of mental power; he who is dead to moral sentiment is wholly bereft of the highest attribute of his nature. 

LIFELIKE:  Like a living being; resembling life; giving an accurate representation; as, a lifelike portrait.  -- Life"like`ness, n. Poe. 

LIFELONG:  Lasting or continuing through life. Tennyson. 

LIFELY:  In a lifelike manner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LIFEMATE:  Companion for life. Hawthorne. 

LIFEN:  To enliven. [Obs.] Marston.  LIFE-PRESERVER Life"-pre*serv`er, n.  An apparatus, made in very various forms, and of various materials, for saving one from drowning by buoying up the body while in the water.  -- Life"-pre*serv`ing, a.  LIFE-SAVING Life"-sav`ing, a.  That saves life, or is suited to save life, esp. from drowning; as, the life-saving service; a life-saving station.  LIFE-SIZE Life"-size`, a.  Of full size; of the natural size. 

LIFESOME:  Animated; sprightly. [Poetic] Coleridge.  -- Life"some*ness, n. 

LIFESPRING:  Spring or source of life. 

LIFESTRING:  A nerve, or string, that is imagined to be essential to life. Daniel. 

LIFETIME:  The time that life continues.  LIFE-WEARY Life"-wea`ry, a.  Weary of living. Shak. 

LIFLODE:  Livelihood. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LIFT:  The sky; the atmosphere; the firmament. [Obs. or Scot.] 

LIFT:  To steal; to carry off by theft (esp. cattle); as, to lift a drove of cattle.  Note: In old writers, lift is sometimes used for lifted. He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered. Shak. To lift up, to raise or elevate; in the Scriptures, specifically, to elevate upon the cross. John viii. 28.  -- To lift up the eyes. To look up; to raise the eyes, as in prayer. Ps. cxxi. 1.  -- To lift up the feet, to come speedily to one's relief. Ps. lxxiv. 3.  -- To lift up the hand. (a) To take an oath. Gen. xiv. 22. (b) To pray. Ps. xxviii. 2. (c) To engage in duty. Heb. xii. 12.  -- To lift up the hand against, to rebel against; to assault; to attack; to injure; to oppress. Job xxxi. 21.  -- To lift up one's head, to cause one to be exalted or to rejoice. Gen. xl. 13. Luke xxi. 28.  -- To lift up the heel against, to treat with insolence or unkindness. John xiii.18.  -- To lift up the voice, to cry aloud; to call out. Gen. xxi. 16. 

LIFT:  To live by theft. Spenser. 

LIFT:  A rope leading from the masthead to the extremity of a yard below; -- used for raising or supporting the end of the yard.  8. (Mach.)  One of the steps of a cone pulley.  9. (Shoemaking)  A layer of leather in the heel.  10. (Horology)  That portion of the vibration of a balance during which the impulse is given. Saunier. Dead lift. See under Dead. Swift.  -- Lift bridge, a kind of drawbridge, the movable part of which is lifted, instead of being drawn aside.  -- Lift gate, a gate that is opened by lifting.  -- Lift hammer. See Tilt hammer.  -- Lift lock, a canal lock.  -- Lift pump, a lifting pump.  -- Lift tenter (Windmills), a governor for regulating the speed by adjusting the sails, or for adjusting the action of grinding machinery according to the speed.  -- Lift wall (Canal Lock), the cross wall at the head of the lock. 

LIFTABLE:  Such as can be lifted. 

LIFTER:  A tool for lifting loose sand from the mold; also, a contrivance attached to a cope, to hold the sand together when the cope is lifted. 

LIFTING:  Used in, or for, or by, lifting. Lifting bridge, a lift bridge.  -- Lifting jack. See 2d Jack, 5.  -- Lifting machine. See Health lift, under Health.  -- Lifting pump. (Mach.) (a) A kind of pump having a bucket, or valved piston, instead of a solid piston, for drawing water and lifting it to a high level. (b) A pump which lifts the water only to the top of the pump, or delivers it through a spout; a lift pump.  -- Lifting rod, a vertical rod lifted by a rock shaft, and imparting motion to a puppet valve; -- used in the engines of river steamboats.  -- Lifting sail (Naut.), one which tends to lift a vessel's bow out of water, as jibs and square foresails. 

LIG:  To recline; to lie still. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

LIGAMENT:  Composing a ligament; of the nature of a ligament; binding; as, a strong ligamentous membrane. 

LIGAN:  Goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that they may be found again. See Jetsam and Flotsam. [Written also lagan.] Blackstone. 

LIGATE:  To tie with a ligature; to bind around; to bandage. 

LIGATOR:  An instrument for ligating, or for placing and fastening a ligature. 

LIGATURE:  A curve or line connecting notes; a slur.  7. (Print.)  A double character, or a type consisting of two or more letters or characters united, as æ, fi, ffl. 

LIGATURE:  To ligate; to tie. 

LIGE:  To lie; to tell lies. [Obs.] 

LIGEANCE:  The connection between sovereign and subject by which they were mutually bound, the former to protection and the securing of justice, the latter to faithful service; allegiance. [Written also ligeancy and liegance.] Chaucer. 

LIGEMENT:  See Ledgment 

LIGGE:  To lie or recline. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LIGHT:  The manner in which the light strikes upon a picture; that part of a picture which represents those objects upon which the light is supposed to fall; the more illuminated part of a landscape or other scene; -- opposed to shade. Cf. Chiaroscuro.  12. Appearance due to the particular facts and circumstances presented to view; point of view; as, to state things fairly and put them in the right light. Frequent consideration of a thing . . . shows it in its several lights and various ways of appearance. South.  13. One who is conspicuous or noteworthy; a model or example; as, the lights of the age or of antiquity. Joan of Are, A light of ancient France. Tennyson.  14. (Pyrotech.)  A firework made by filling a case with a substance which burns brilliantly with a white or colored flame; as, a Bengal light.  Note: Light is used figuratively to denote that which resembles physical light in any respect, as illuminating, benefiting, enlightening, or enlivening mankind. Ancient lights (Law), Calcium light, Flash light, etc. See under Ancient, Calcium, etc.  -- Light ball (Mil.), a ball of combustible materials, used to afford light; -- sometimes made so as to fired from a cannon or mortar, or to be carried up by a rocket.  -- Light barrel (Mil.), an empty power barrel pierced with holes and filled with shavings soaked in pitch, used to light up a ditch or a breach. --Light dues (Com.), tolls levied on ships navigating certain waters, for the maintenance of lighthouses.  -- Light iron, a candlestick. [Obs.] -- Light keeper, a person appointed to take care of a lighthouse or light-ship.  -- Light money, charges laid by government on shipping entering a port, for the maintenance of lighthouses and light-ships.  -- The light of the countenance, favor; kindness; smiles. Lord, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us. Ps. iv. 6. -- Northern lights. See Aurora borealis, under Aurora.  -- To bring to light, to cause to be disclosed.  -- To come to light, to be disclosed.  -- To see the light, to come into the light; hence, to come into the world or public notice; as, his book never saw the light.  -- To stand in one's own light, to take a position which is injurious to one's own interest. 

LIGHT:  Lightly; cheaply. Hooker. 

LIGHT:  To lighten; to ease of a burden; to take off. [Obs.] From his head the heavy burgonet did light. Spenser. 

LIGHTABLE:  Such as can be lighted.  LIGHT-ARMED Light"-armed`, a.  Armed with light weapons or accouterments.  LIGHT-BOAT Light"-boat`, n.  Light-ship. 

LIGHTE:  of Light, to alight. Chaucer. 

LIGHTEN:  To descend; to light. O Lord, let thy mercy lighten upon us. Book of Common Prayer [Eng. Ed.] 

LIGHTER:  One who, or that which, lights; as, a lighter of lamps. 

LIGHTER:  A large boat or barge, mainly, used in unloading or loading vessels which can not reach the wharves at the place of shipment or delivery. Lighter screw (Mach.), a screw for adjusting the distance between the stones in a grinding mill by raising or lowering the bridgetree. 

LIGHTER:  To convey by a lighter, as to or from the shore; as, to lighter the cargo of a ship. 

LIGHTERMAN:  A person employed on, or who manages, a lighter.  LIGHT-FINGERED Light"-fin`gered, a.  Dexterous in taking and conveying away; thievish; pilfering; addicted to petty thefts. Fuller.  LIGHT-FOOT; LIGHT-FOOTED Light"-foot`, Light"-foot`ed, a.  Having a light, springy step; nimble in running or dancing; active; as, light-foot Iris. Tennyson. 

LIGHTFUL:  Full of light; bright. [R.] "Lightful presence." Marston.  LIGHT-HANDED Light"-hand`ed, a. (Naut.)  Not having a full complement of men; as, a vessel light-handed.  LIGHT-HEADED Light"-head`ed, a.  1. Disordered in the head; dilirious. Walpole.  2. Thoughtless; heedless; volatile; unsteady; fickle; loose. "Light- headed, weak men." Clarendon.  -- Light"-head`ed*ness, n.  LIGHT-HEARTED Light"-heart"ed, a.  Free from grief or anxiety; gay; cheerful; merry.  -- Light"-heart`ed*ly, adv.  -- Light"-heart"ed*ness, n.  LIGHT-HEELED Light"-heeled`, a.  Lively in walking or running; brisk; light-footed.  LIGHT-HORSEMAN Light"-horse`man, n.; pl. -men (.  1. A soldier who serves in the light horse. See under 5th Light.  2. (Zoöl.)  A West Indian fish of the genus Ephippus, remarkable for its high dorsal fin and brilliant colors. 

LIGHTHOUSE:  A tower or other building with a powerful light at top, erected at the entrance of a port, or at some important point on a coast, to serve as a guide to mariners at night; a pharos. 

LIGHTING:  A name sometimes applied to the process of annealing metals.  LIGHT-LEGGED Light"-legged`, a.  Nimble; swift of foot. Sir P. Sidney. 

LIGHTLESS:  Destitute of light; dark. Shak. 

LIGHTMAN:  A man who carries or takes care of a light. T. Brown.  LIGHT-MINDED Light"-mind`ed, a.  Unsettled; unsteady; volatile; not considerate.  -- Light"-mind`ed*ness, n. 

LIGHTNESS:  The state, condition, or quality, of being light or not heavy; buoyancy; levity; fickleness; delicacy; grace.  Syn.  -- Levity; volatility; instability; inconstancy; unsteadiness; giddiness; flightiness; airiness; gayety; liveliness; agility; nimbleness; sprightliness; briskness; swiftness; ease; facility. 

LIGHTNING:  Lightening. [R.]  LIGHT-O'-LOVE Light"-o'-love`, n.  1. An old tune of a dance, the name of which made it a proverbial expression of levity, especially in love matters. Nares. "Best sing it to the tune of light-o'-love." Shak.  2. Hence: A light or wanton woman. Beau. & Fl. 

LIGHTROOM:  A small room from which the magazine of a naval vessel is lighted, being separated from the magazine by heavy glass windows. 

LIGHTS:  The lungs of an animal or bird; -- sometimes coarsely applied to the lungs of a human being.  LIGHT-SHIP Light"-ship`, n. (Naut.)  A vessel carrying at the masthead a brilliant light, and moored off a shoal or place of dangerous navigation as a guide for mariners. 

LIGHTSTRUCK:  Damaged by accidental exposure to light; light-fogged; -- said of plates or films. 

LIGHTWEIGHT:  Light in weight, as a coin; specif., applied to a man or animal who is a lightweight.  LIGHT-WINGED Light"-winged`, a.  Having light and active wings; volatile; fleeting. Shak. 

LIGHTWOOD:  Pine wood abounding in pitch, used for torches in the Southern United States; pine knots, dry sticks, and the like, for kindling a fire quickly or making a blaze. 

LIGHTY:  Illuminated. [Obs.] Wyclif.  LIGHT YEAR Light year. (Astron.)  The distance over which light can travel in a year's time; -- used as a unit in expressing stellar distances. It is more than 63,000 times as great as the distance from the earth to the sun.  LIGN-ALOES Lign`-al"oes, n. Etym: [OE. ligne aloes, fr. L. lignum wood + aloe aloe.]  1. Aloes wood, or agallochum. See Agallochum.  2. A fragrant tree mentioned in the Bible. Num. xxiv. 6. 

LIGNEOUS:  Made of wood; consisting of wood; of the nature of, or resembling, wood; woody. It should be tried with shoots of vines and roots of red roses; for it may be they, being of a moreligneous nature, will incorporate with the tree itself. Bacon. Ligneous marble, wood coated or prepared so as to resemble marble. 

LIGNIFEROUS:  Yielding or producing wood. 

LIGNIFICATION:  A change in the character of a cell wall, by which it becomes harder. It is supposed to be due to an incrustation of lignin. 

LIGNIFORM:  Like wood. 

LIGNIFY:  To convert into wood or into a ligneous substance. 

LIGNIFY:  To become wood. 

LIGNIN:  A substance characterizing wood cells and differing from cellulose in its conduct with certain chemical reagents.  Note: Recent authors have distinguished four forms of this substance, naming them lignose, lignin, lignone, and lignireose. 

LIGNIPERDOUS:  Wood-destroying; -- said of certain insects. 

LIGNIREOSE:  See Lignin. 

LIGNITE:  Mineral coal retaining the texture of the wood from which it was formed, and burning with an empyreumatic odor. It is of more recent origin than the anthracite and bituminous coal of the proper coal series. Called also brown coal, wood coal. 

LIGNITIC:  Containing lignite; resembling, or of the nature of, lignite; as, lignitic clay. Lignitic group. See Laramie group. 

LIGNITIFEROUS:  Producing or containing lignite; lignitic. 

LIGNOCERIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the formic acid series, found in the tar, wax, or paraffine obtained by distilling certain kinds of wood, as the beech. 

LIGNONE:  See Lignin.  LIGNOSE; LIGNOUS Lig*nose`, Lig"nous, a. Etym: [L. lignosus, fr. lignum wood: cf. F. ligneux. Cf. Ligneous.]  Ligneous. [R.] Evelyn. 

LIGNOSE:  See Lignin.  2. (Chem.)  An explosive compound of wood fiber and nitroglycerin. See Nitroglycerin.  LIGNUM RHODIUM Lig"num rho"di*um. Etym: [NL., fr. L. lignum wood + Gr. (Bot.)  The fragrant wood of several shrubs and trees, especially of species of Rhodorhiza from the Canary Islands, and of the West Indian Amyris balsamifera.  LIGNUM-VITAE Lig"num-vi"tae, n. Etym: [L., wood of life; lignum wood + vita, genitive vitæ, life.] (Bot.)  A tree (Guaiacum officinale) found in the warm latitudes of America, from which the guaiacum of medicine is procured. Its wood is very hard and heavy, and is used for various mechanical purposes, as for the wheels of ships' blocks, cogs, bearings, and the like. See Guaiacum.  Note: In New Zealand the Metrosideros buxifolia is called lignum- vitæ, and in Australia a species of Acacia. The bastard lignum-vitæ is a West Indian tree (Sarcomphalus laurinus). 

LIGROIN:  A trade name applied somewhat indefinitely to some of the volatile products obtained in refining crude petroleum. It is a complex and variable mixture of several hydrocarbons, generally boils below 170º Fahr., and is more inflammable than safe kerosene. It is used as a solvent, as a carburetant for air gas, and for illumination in special lamps. 

LIGSAM:  Same as Ligan. Brande & C. 

LIGULA:  See Ligule.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The central process, or front edge, of the labium of insects. It sometimes serves as a tongue or proboscis, as in bees. [See Illust. under Labium, and Hymenoptera.] (b) A tongue-shaped lobe of the parapodia of annelids. See Parapodium.  LIGULATE; LIGULATED Lig"u*late, Lig"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ligulé. See Ligule, and cf. Lingulate.]  1. (Bot.)  Like a bandage, or strap; strap-shaped.  2. Composed of ligules. Ligulate flower, a species of compound flower, the florets of which have their corollets flat, spreading out toward the end, with the base only tubular. 

LIGULE:  A band of white matter in the wall of fourth ventricle of the brain. 

LIGULIFLOROUS:  Bearing only ligulate flowers; -- said of a large suborder of composite plants, such as the dandelion, hawkweed, etc. 

LIGURE:  A kind of precious stone. The third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst. Ex. xxviii. 19. 

LIGUSTRIN:  A bitter principle found in the bark of the privet (Ligustrum vulgare), and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a warm, bitter taste; -- called also ligustron. 

LIKABLE:  Such as can be liked; such as to attract liking; as, a likable person. Thackeray. 

LIKEABLE:  See Likable. 

LIKEHOOD:  Likelihood. [Obs.] South. 

LIKELY:  In all probability; probably. While man was innocent he was likely ignorant of nothing that imported him to know. Glanvill.  LIKE-MINDED Like"-mind`ed, a.  Having a like disposition or purpose; of the same mind. Tillotson. 

LIKENESS:  See Lickerish, Lickerishness. Chaucer. 

LIKEWISE:  In like manner; also; moreover; too. See Also. Go, and do thou likewise. Luke x. 37. For he seeth that wise men die; likewise the fool and the brutish person perish. Ps. xlix. 10. 

LIKIN:  A Chinese provincial tax levied at many inland stations upon imports or articles in transit.  "Likin," which used to be regarded as illegal, as one of the many, "squeezes" imposed by the mandarins, is, in Jamieson's opinion, just as legal as any other form of taxation. A. R. Colquhoun. 

LIKING:  Looking; appearing; as, better or worse liking. See Like, to look. [Obs.] Chaucer. Why should he see your faces worse liking than the children which are of your sort Dan. i. 10. 

LILAC:  A shrub of the genus Syringa. There are six species, natives of Europe and Asia. Syringa vulgaris, the common lilac, and S. Persica, the Persian lilac, are frequently cultivated for the fragrance and beauty of their purplish or white flowers. In the British colonies various other shrubs have this name.  2. A light purplish color like that of the flower of the purplish lilac. California lilac (Bot.), a low shrub with dense clusters of purplish flowers (Ceanothus thyrsiflorus). 

LILACIN:  See Syringin. 

LILIAL:  Having a general resemblance to lilies or to liliaceous plants. 

LILIED:  Covered with, or having many, lilies. By sandy Ladon's lilied banks. Milton. 

LILL:  To loll. [Obs. or Prov.] Spenser. 

LILLIPUTIAN:  A person or thing of very small size. 

LILLIPUTIAN:  Of very small size; diminutive; dwarfed.  LILLY-PILLY Lil"ly-pil`ly, n. (Bot.)  An Australian myrtaceous tree (Eugenia Smithii), having smooth ovate leaves, and panicles of small white flowers. The wood is hard and fine-grained. 

LILT:  To utter with spirit, animation, or gayety; to sing with spirit and liveliness. A classic lecture, rich in sentiment, With scraps of thundrous epic lilted out By violet-hooded doctors. Tennyson. 

LILY:  A plant and flower of the genus Lilium, endogenous bulbous plants, having a regular perianth of six colored pieces, six stamens, and a superior three-celled ovary.  Note: There are nearly fifty species, all found in the North Temperate zone. Lilium candidum and L. longiflorum are the common white lilies of gardens; L. Philadelphicum is the wild red lily of the Atlantic States. L. Chalcedonicum is supposed to be the "lily of the field" in our Lord's parable; L. auratum is the great gold-banded lily of Japan.  2. (Bot.)  A name given to handsome flowering plants of several genera, having some resemblance in color or form to a true lily, as Pancratium, Crinum, Amaryllis, Nerine, etc.  3. That end of a compass needle which should point to the north; -- so called as often ornamented with the figure of a lily or fleur-de- lis. But sailing further, it veers its lily to the west. Sir T. Browne. African lily (Bot.), the blue-flowered Agapanthus umbellatus.  -- Atamasco lily (Bot.), a plant of the genus Zephyranthes (Z. Atamasco), having a white and pink funnelform perianth, with six petal-like divisions resembling those of a lily. Gray.  -- Blackberry lily (Bot.), the Pardanthus Chinensis, the black seeds of which form a dense like a blackberry.  -- Bourbon lily (Bot.), Lilium candidum. See Illust.  -- Butterfly lily. (Bot.) Same as Mariposa lily, in the Vocabulary.  -- Lily daffodil (Bot.), a plant of the genus Narcissus, and its flower.  -- Lily encrinite (Paleon.), a fossil encrinite, esp. Encrinus liliiformis. See Encrinite.  -- Lily hyacinth (Bot.), a plant of the genus Hyacinthus.  -- Lily iron, a kind of harpoon with a detachable head of peculiar shape, used in capturing swordfish.  -- Lily of the valley (Bot.), a low perennial herb (Convallaria majalis), having a raceme of nodding, fragrant, white flowers.  -- Lily pad, the large floating leaf of the water lily. [U. S.] Lowell.  -- Tiger lily (Bot.), Lilium tigrinum, the sepals of which are blotched with black.  -- Turk's-cap lily (Bot.) Lilium Martagon, a red lily with recurved sepals; also, the similar American lily, L. superbum.  -- Water lily (Bot.), the Nymphæa, a plant with floating roundish leaves, and large flowers having many petals, usually white, but sometimes pink, red, blue, or yellow. [See Illust. of Nymphæa.]  LILY-HANDED Lil"y-hand`ed, a.  Having white, delicate hands.  LILY-LIVERED Lil"y-liv`ered, a.  White-livered; cowardly. 

LILYWORT:  Any plant of the Lily family or order. Lindley. 

LIM:  A limb. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LIMA:  The capital city of Peru, in South America. Lima bean. (Bot.) (a) A variety of climbing or pole bean (Phaseolus lunatus), which has very large flattish seeds. (b) The seed of this plant, much used for food.  -- Lima wood (Bot.), the beautiful dark wood of the South American tree Cæsalpinia echinata. 

LIMACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or like, Limax, or the slugs. 

LIMACINA:  A genus of small spiral pteropods, common in the Arctic and Antarctic seas. It contributes to the food of the right whales. 

LIMACON:  A curve of the fourth degree, invented by Pascal. Its polar equation is r = a cos + b. 

LIMAILLE:  Filings of metal. [Obs.] "An ounce . . . of silver lymaille." Chaucer. 

LIMAN:  The deposit of slime at the mouth of a river; slime. 

LIMATION:  The act of filing or polishing. 

LIMAX:  A genus of airbreathing mollusks, including the common garden slugs. They have a small rudimentary shell. The breathing pore is on the right side of the neck. Several species are troublesome in gardens. See Slug. 

LIMB:  A border or edge, in certain special uses. (a) (Bot.) The border or upper spreading part of a monopetalous corolla, or of a petal, or sepal; blade. (b) (Astron.) The border or edge of the disk of a heavenly body, especially of the sun and moon. (c) The graduated margin of an arc or circle, in an instrument for measuring angles. 

LIMBAT:  A cooling periodical wind in the Isle of Cyprus, blowing from the northwest from eight o'clock, A. M., to the middle of the day or later. 

LIMBATE:  Bordered, as when one color is surrounded by an edging of another. 

LIMBEC:  An alembic; a still. [Obs.] Spenser. Shak. 

LIMBEC:  To distill. [Obs.] Dryden. 

LIMBED:  Having limbs; -- much used in composition; as, large-limbed; short-limbed. Innumerous living creatures, perfect forms, Limbed and full grown. Milton. 

LIMBER:  The shafts or thills of a wagon or carriage. [Prov. Eng.]  2. (Mil.)  The detachable fore part of a gun carriage, consisting of two wheels, an axle, and a shaft to which the horses are attached. On top is an ammunition box upon which the cannoneers sit.  3. pl. (Naut.)  Gutters or conduits on each side of the keelson to afford a passage for water to the pump well. Limber boards (Naut.), short pieces of plank forming part of the lining of a ship's floor immediately above the timbers, so as to prevent the limbers from becoming clogged.  -- Limber box or chest (Mil.), a box on the limber for carrying ammunition.  -- Limber rope, Limber chain or Limber clearer (Naut.), a rope or chain passing through the limbers of a ship, by which they may be cleared of dirt that chokes them. Totten.  -- Limber strake (Shipbuilding), the first course of inside planking next the keelson. 

LIMBER:  To attach to the limber; as, to limber a gun. To limber up, to change a gun carriage into a four-wheeled vehicle by attaching the limber. 

LIMBER:  Easily bent; flexible; pliant; yielding. Milton. The bargeman that doth row with long and limber oar. Turbervile. 

LIMBER:  To cause to become limber; to make flexible or pliant. Richardson. 

LIMBERNESS:  The quality or state of being limber; flexibleness. Boyle. 

LIMBLESS:  Destitute of limbs. 

LIMBMEAL:  Piecemeal. [Obs.] "To tear her limbmeal." Shak.  LIMBO; LIMBUS Lim"bo, Lim"bus, n. Etym: [L. limbus border, edge in limbo on the border. Cf. Limb border.]  1. (Scholastic Theol.)  An extramundane region where certain classes of souls were supposed to await the judgment. As far from help as Limbo is from bliss. Shak. A Limbo large and broad, since called The Paradise of fools. Milton.  Note: The limbus patrum was considered as a place for the souls of good men who lived before the coming of our Savior. The limbus infantium was said to be a similar place for the souls of unbaptized infants. To these was added, in the popular belief, the limbus fatuorum, or fool's paradise, regarded as a receptacle of all vanity and nonsense.  2. Hence: Any real or imaginary place of restraint or confinement; a prison; as, to put a man in limbo.  3. (Anat.)  A border or margin; as, the limbus of the cornea. Etym: Jamaican E limba to bend, fr. E. limber (1950)]. Often performed at celebrations, such as weddings. (1950-1996) 

LIMBOUS:  With slightly overlapping borders; -- said of a suture.  LIMBURG CHEESE; LIMBURGER; LIMBURGER CHEESE Lim"burg cheese, Lim"burg*er, n., Lim"burg*er cheese.  A soft cheese made in the Belgian province of Limburg (Limbourg), and usually not eaten until the curing has developed a peculiar and, to most people, unpleasant odor. 

LIME:  A thong by which a dog is led; a leash. Halliwell. 

LIME:  The linden tree. See Linden. 

LIME:  A fruit allied to the lemon, but much smaller; also, the tree which bears it. There are two kinds; Citrus Medica, var. acida which is intensely sour, and the sweet lime (C. Medica, var. Limetta) which is only slightly sour. 

LIME:  Oxide of calcium; the white or gray, caustic substance, usually called quicklime, obtained by calcining limestone or shells, the heat driving off carbon dioxide and leaving lime. It develops great heat when treated with water, forming slacked lime, and is an essential ingredient of cement, plastering, mortar, etc.CaO  Note: Lime is the principal constituent of limestone, marble, chalk, bones, shells, etc. Caustic lime, calcium hydrate or slacked lime; also, in a less technical sense, calcium oxide or quicklime.  -- Lime burner, one who burns limestone, shells, etc., to make lime.  -- Lime light. See Calcium light under Calcium.  -- Lime pit, a limestone quarry.  -- Lime rod, Lime twig, a twig smeared with birdlime; hence, that which catches; a snare. Chaucer. 

LIMEHOUND:  A dog used in hunting the wild boar; a leamer. Spenser. 

LIMEKILN:  A kiln or furnace in which limestone or shells are burned and reduced to lime. 

LIMELIGHT:  That part of the stage upon which the limelight as cast, usually where the most important action is progressing or where the leading player or players are placed and upon which the attention of the spectators is therefore concentrated. Hence, consspicuous position before the public; as, politicians who are never happy except in the limelight. 

LIMENEAN:  Of or pertaining to Lima, or to the inhabitants of Lima, in Peru.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Lima. 

LIMER:  A limehound; a limmer. Chaucer. 

LIMERICK:  A nonsense poem of five anapestic lines, of which  lines 1, 2, and 5 are of there feet, and rime, and lines 3 and 4 are of two feet, and rime; as --  There was a young lady, Amanda, Whose Ballades Lyriques were quite fin de Siècle, I deem But her Journal Intime Was what sent her papa to Uganda. 

LIMESTONE:  A rock consisting chiefly of calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime. It sometimes contains also magnesium carbonate, and is then called magnesian or dolomitic limestone. Crystalline limestone is called marble.  LIME TWIG Lime twig  . See under 4th Lime.  LIME-TWIGGED Lime"-twigged`, a.  Beset with snares; insnared, as with birdlime. L. Addison. 

LIMEWATER:  Water impregnated with lime; esp., an artificial solution of lime for medicinal purposes. 

LIMICOLAE:  A group of shore birds, embracing the plovers, sandpipers, snipe, curlew, etc. ; the Grallæ. 

LIMICOLINE:  Shore-inhabiting; of or pertaining to the Limicolæ. 

LIMINESS:  The state or quality of being limy. 

LIMIT:  A determining feature; a distinguishing characteristic a differentia.  6. (Math.)  A determinate quantity, to which a variable one continually approaches, and may differ from it by less than any given difference, but to which, under the law of variation, the variable can never become exactly equivalent. Elastic limit. See under Elastic.  -- Prison limits, a definite, extent of space in or around a prison, within which a prisoner has liberty to go and come.  Syn.  -- Boundary; border; edge; termination; restriction; bound; confine. 

LIMIT:  To apply a limit to, or set a limit for; to terminate, circumscribe, or restrict, by a limit or limits; as, to limit the acreage of a crop; to limit the issue of paper money; to limit one's ambitions or aspirations; to limit the meaning of a word. Limiting parallels (Astron.), those parallels of latitude between which only an occultation of a star or planet by the moon, in a given case, can occur. 

LIMIT:  To beg, or to exercise functions, within a certain limited region; as, a limiting friar. [Obs.] 

LIMITABLE:  Capable of being limited. 

LIMITANEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a limit. [Obs.] 

LIMITARIAN:  Tending to limit. 

LIMITATE:  Bounded by a distinct line. 

LIMITED:  Confined within limits; narrow; circumscribed; restricted; as, our views of nature are very limited. Limited company, a company in which the liability of each shareholder is limited by the number of shares he has taken, so that he can not be called on to contribute beyond the amount of his shares. [Eng.] Mozley & W. 

LIMITEDLY:  With limitation. 

LIMITEDNESS:  The quality of being limited. 

LIMITIVE:  Involving a limit; as, a limitive law, one designed to limit existing powers. [R.] 

LIMITLESS:  Having no limits; unbounded; boundless. Davies (Wit's Pilgr.). 

LIMITOUR:  See Limiter, 2. 

LIMMER:  Limber. [Obs.] Holland. 

LIMMER:  A mongrel, as a cross between the mastiff and hound.  3. A low, base fellow; also, a prostitute. [Scot.] Thieves, limmers, and broken men of the Highlands. Sir W. Scott.  4. (Naut.)  A man rope at the side of a ladder. 

LIMN:  A genus of fresh-water air-breathing mollusks, abundant in ponds and streams; -- called also pond snail. [Written also Lymnæa.] 

LIMNER:  A painter; an artist; esp.: (a) One who paints portraits. (b) One who illuminates books. [Archaic] 

LIMNIAD:  See Limoniad. 

LIMNING:  The act, process, or art of one who limns; the picture or decoration so produced. Adorned with illumination which we now call limning. Wood. 

LIMOGES:  A city of Southern France. Limoges enamel, a kind of enamel ware in which the enamel is applied to the whole surface of a metal plaque, vase, or the like, and painted in enamel colors. The art was brought to a high degree of perfection in Limoges in the 16th century.  -- Limoges ware. (a) Articles decorated with Limoges enamel. (b) Articles of porcelain, etc., manufactured at Limoges. 

LIMONIAD:  A nymph of the meadows; -- called also Limniad. 

LIMONIN:  A bitter, white, crystalline substance found in orange and lemon seeds. 

LIMONITE:  Hydrous sesquixoide of iron, an important ore of iron, occurring in stalactitic, mammillary, or earthy forms, of a dark brown color, yellowish brown powder. It includes bog iron. Also called brown hematite. 

LIMOSIS:  A ravenous appetite caused by disease; excessive and morbid hunger. 

LIMOUS:  Muddy; slimy; thick. Sir T. Browne. 

LIMOUSINE:  An automobile body with seats and permanent top like a coupé, and with the top projecting over the driver and a projecting front; also, an automobile with such a body. 

LIMP:  To halt; to walk lamely. Also used figuratively. Shak. 

LIMP:  A halt; the act of limping. 

LIMP:  A scraper for removing poor ore or refuse from the sieve. 

LIMPER:  One who limps. 

LIMPID:  Characterized by clearness or transparency; clear; as, a limpid stream. Springs which were clear, fresh, and limpid. Woodward.  Syn.  -- Clear; transparent; pellucid; lucid; pure; crystal; translucent; bright. 

LIMPIDITY:  The quality or state of being limpid. 

LIMPIDNESS:  Quality of being limpid; limpidity. 

LIMPIN:  A limpet. [Obs.] Holland. 

LIMPINGLY:  In a limping manner. 

LIMPITUDE:  Limpidity. [Obs.] 

LIMPKIN:  Either one of two species of wading birds of the genus Aramus, intermediate between the cranes and rails. The limpkins are remarkable for the great length of the toes. One species (A. giganteus) inhabits Florida and the West Indies; the other (A. scolopaceus) is found in South America. Called also courlan, and crying bird. 

LIMPNESS:  The quality or state of being limp.  LIMPSY; LIMSY Limp"sy, Lim"sy, a. Etym: [See Limp, a., and cf. W. llymsi having a fickle motion, weak. Cf. Flimsy.]  Limp; flexible; flimsy. [Local, U. S.] 

LIMU:  The Hawaiian name for seaweeds. Over sixty kinds are used as food, and have species names, as Limu Lipoa, Limu palawai, etc. 

LIMULE:  A limulus. 

LIMULOIDEA:  An order of Merostomata, including among living animals the genus Limulus, with various allied fossil genera, mostly of the Carboniferous period. Called also Xiphosura.  Note: There are six pairs of leglike organs, surrounding the mouth, most of which terminate in claws; those of the first pair (probably mandibles) are the smallest; the others have the basal joints thickened and spinose, to serve as jaws, while the terminal joints serve as legs. This group is intermediate, in some characteristics, between crustaceans and certain arachnids (scorpions), but the respiration is by means of lamellate gills borne upon the five posterior abdominal appendages, which are flat and united in pairs by their inner edges, and are protected by the lidlike anterior pair, which also bear the genital orifices. 

LIMULUS:  The only existing genus of Merostomata. It includes only a few species from the East Indies, and one (Limulus polyphemus) from the Atlantic coast of North America. Called also Molucca crab, king crab, horseshoe crab, and horsefoot. 

LIN:  To yield; to stop; to cease. [Obs. or Scot.] Marsion. 

LINAGE:  See Lineage. [Obs.] Holland. 

LINAMENT:  Lint; esp., lint made into a tent for insertion into wounds or ulcers. 

LINARITE:  A hydrous sulphate of lead and copper occurring in bright blue monoclinic crystals. 

LINCH:  A ledge; a right-angled projection. 

LINCHI:  An esculent swallow. 

LINCHPIN:  A pin used to prevent the wheel of a vehicle from sliding off the axletree.  LINCOLN GREEN Lin"coln green"  . A color of cloth formerly made in Lincoln, England; the cloth itself.  LINCTURE; LINCTUS Linc"ture, Linc"tus, n. Etym: [L. lingere, linctum, to lick.]  Medicine taken by licking with the tongue. 

LIND:  The linden. See Linden. Chaucer. 

LINDIA:  A peculiar genus of rotifers, remarkable for the absence of ciliated disks. By some zoölogists it is thought to be like the ancestral form of the Arthropoda. 

LINDIFORM:  Resembling the genus Lindia; -- said of certain apodous insect larvæ. [See Illust. under Larva.] 

LINE:  A verse, or the words which form a certain number of feet, according to the measure. In the preceding line Ulysses speaks of Nausicaa. Broome.  8. Course of conduct, thought, occupation, or policy; method of argument; department of industry, trade, or intellectual activity. He is uncommonly powerful in his own line, but it is not the line of a first-rate man. Coleridge.  9. (Math.)  That which has length, but not breadth or thickness.  10. The exterior limit of a figure, plat, or territory; boundary; contour; outline. Eden stretched her line From Auran eastward to the royal towers Of great Seleucia. Milton.  11. A threadlike crease marking the face or the hand; hence, characteristic mark. Though on his brow were graven lines austere. Byron. He tipples palmistry, and dines On all her fortune-telling lines. Cleveland.  12. Lineament; feature; figure. "The lines of my boy's face." Shak.  13. A straight row; a continued series or rank; as, a line of houses, or of soldiers; a line of barriers. Unite thy forces and attack their lines. Dryden.  14. A series or succession of ancestors or descand ants of a given person; a family or race; as, the ascending or descending line; the line of descent; the male line; a line of kings. Of his lineage am I, and his offspring By very line, as of the stock real. Chaucer.  15. A connected series of public conveyances, and hence, an established arrangement for forwarding merchandise, etc. ; as, a line of stages; an express line.  16. (Geog.) (a) A circle of latitude or of longitude, as represented on a map. (b) The equator; -- usually called the line, or equinoctial line; as, to cross the line.  17. A long tape, or a narrow ribbon of steel, etc., marked with subdivisions, as feet and inches, for measuring; a tapeline.  18. (Script.) (a) A measuring line or cord. He marketh it out with a line. Is. xliv. 13.  (b) That which was measured by a line, as a field or any piece of land set apart; hence, allotted place of abode. The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yes. I have a goodly heritage. Ps. xvi. 6.  (c) Instruction; doctrine. Their line is gone out through all the earth. Ps. xix. 4.  19. (Mach.)  The proper relative position or adjustment of parts, not as to design or proportion, but with reference to smooth working; as, the engine is in line or out of line or out of line.  20. The track and roadbed of a railway; railroad.  21. (Mil.) (a) A row of men who are abreast of one another, whether side by side or some distance apart; -- opposed to column. (b) The regular infantry of an army, as distinguished from militia, guards, volunteer corps, cavalry, artillery, etc.  22. (Fort.) (a) A trench or rampart. (b) pl.  Dispositions made to cover extended positions, and presenting a front in but one direction to an enemy.  23. pl. (Shipbuilding)  form of a vessel as shown by the outlines of vertical, horizontal, and obique sections.  24. (Mus.)  One of the straight horizontal and parallel prolonged strokes on and between which the notes are placed.  25. (Stock Exchange)  A number of shares taken by a jobber.  26. (Trade)  A series of various qualities and values of the same general class of articles; as, a full line of hosiery; a line of merinos, etc. McElrath.  27. The wire connecting one telegraphic station with another, or the whole of a system of telegraph wires under one management and name.  28. pl.  The reins with which a horse is guided by his driver. [U. S.]  29. A measure of length; one twelfth of an inch. Hard lines, hard lot. C. Kingsley. [See Def. 18.] -- Line breeding (Stockbreeding), breeding by a certain family line of descent, especially in the selection of the dam or mother.  -- Line conch (Zoöl.), a spiral marine shell (Fasciolaria distans), of Florida and the West Indies. It is marked by narrow, dark, revolving lines.  -- Line engraving. (a) Engraving in which the effects are produced by lines of different width and closeness, cut with the burin upon copper or similar material; also, a plate so engraved. (b) A picture produced by printing from such an engraving.  -- Line of battle. (a) (Mil Tactics) The position of troops drawn up in their usual order without any determined maneuver. (b) (Naval) The line or arrangement formed by vessels of war in an engagement.  -- Line of battle ship. See Ship of the line, below.  -- Line of beauty (Fine Arts),an abstract line supposed to be beautiful in itself and absolutely; -- differently represented by different authors, often as a kind of elongated S (like the one drawn by Hogarth).  -- Line of centers. (Mach.) (a) A line joining two centers, or fulcra, as of wheels or levers. (b) A line which determines a dead center. See Dead center, under Dead.  -- Line of dip (Geol.), a line in the plane of a stratum, or part of a stratum, perpendicular to its intersection with a horizontal plane; the line of greatest inclination of a stratum to the horizon.  -- Line of fire (Mil.), the direction of fire.  -- Line of force (Physics), any line in a space in which forces are acting, so drawn that at every point of the line its tangent is the direction of the resultant of all the forces. It cuts at right angles every equipotential surface which it meets. Specifically (Magnetism), a line in proximity to a magnet so drawn that any point in it is tangential with the direction of a short compass needle held at that point. Faraday.  -- Line of life (Palmistry), a line on the inside of the hand, curving about the base of the thumb, supposed to indicate, by its form or position, the length of a person's life.  -- Line of lines. See Gunter's line.  -- Line of march. (Mil.) (a) Arrangement of troops for marching. (b) Course or direction taken by an army or body of troops in marching.  -- Line of operations, that portion of a theater of war which an army passes over in attaining its object. H. W. Halleck.  -- Line of sight (Firearms), the line which passes through the front and rear sight, at any elevation, when they are sighted at an object.  -- Line tub (Naut.), a tub in which the line carried by a whaleboat is coiled.  -- Mason and Dixon's line, the boundary line between Pennsylvania and Maryland, as run before the Revolution (1764-1767) by two English astronomers named Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon. In an extended sense, the line between the free and the slave States.  -- On the line, on a level with the eye of the spectator; -- said of a picture, as hung in an exhibition of pictures.  -- Right line a picture, as hung in an exhibition of pictures.  -- Right line, a straight line; the shortest line that can be drawn between two points.  -- Ship of the line, formerly, a ship of war large enough to have a place in the line of battle; a vessel superior to a frigate; usually, a seventy-four, or three-decker; -- called also line of battle ship. Totten.  -- To cross the line, to cross the equator, as a vessel at sea.  -- To give a person line, to allow him more or less liberty until it is convenient to stop or check him, like a hooked fish that swims away with the line.  -- Water line (Shipbuilding), the outline of a horizontal section of a vessel, as when floating in the water. 

LINEAGE:  Descent in a line from a common progenitor; progeny; race; descending line of offspring or ascending line of parentage. Both the lineage and the certain sire From which I sprung, from me are hidden yet. Spenser. 

LINEALITY:  The quality of being linea 

LINEALLY:  In a lineal manner; as, the prince is lineally descended from the Conqueror. 

LINEAMENT:  One of the outlines, exterior features, or distinctive marks, of a body or figure, particularly of the face; feature; form; mark; - - usually in the plural. "The lineaments of the body." Locke. "Lineaments in the character." Swift. Man he seems In all his lineaments. Milton. 

LINEAR:  Like a line; narrow; of the same breadth throughout, except at the extremities; as, a linear leaf. Linear differential (Math.), an equation which is of the first degree, when the expression which is equated to zero is regarded as a function of the dependent variable and its differential coefficients.  -- Linear equation (Math.), an equation of the first degree between two variables; -- so called because every such equation may be considered as representing a right line.  -- Linear measure, the measurement of length.  -- Linear numbers (Math.), such numbers as have relation to length only: such is a number which represents one side of a plane figure. If the plane figure is square, the linear figure is called a root.  -- Linear problem (Geom.), a problem which may be solved geometrically by the use of right lines alone.  -- Linear transformation (Alg.), a change of variables where each variable is replaced by a function of the first degree in the new variable. 

LINEARENSATE:  Having the form of a sword, but very long and narrow. 

LINEARLY:  In a linear manner; with lines.  LINEAR-SHAPED Lin"e*ar-shaped`, a.  Of a linear shape. 

LINEARY:  Linear. Holland.  LINEATE; LINEATED Lin"e*ate, Lin"e*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. lineatus, p. p. of lineare to reduce to a straight line, fr. linea line.]  1. (Zoöl.)  Marked with lines.  2. (Bot.)  Marked longitudinally with depressed parallel lines; as, a lineate leaf. 

LINEATION:  Delineation; a line or lines. 

LINEATURE:  Anything having outline. [R.] Holland. 

LINEN:  Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking.  2. Resembling linen cloth; white; pale. 

LINENER:  A dealer in linen; a linen draper. [Obs.] 

LINEOLATE:  Marked with little lines.  2. (Bot.)  Marked longitudinally with fine lines. Gray. 

LINER:  A thin piece placed between two parts to hold or adjust them, fill a space, etc., ; a shim.  4. (Steam Engine)  A lining within the cylinder, in which the piston works and between which and the outer shell of the cylinder a space is left to form a steam jacket.  5. A slab on which small pieces of marble, tile, etc., are fastened for grinding.  6. (Baseball)  A ball which, when struck, flies through the air in a nearly straight line not far from the ground.  LINE-UP; LINEUP Line"-up`, Line"up`, n.  The formation of football players before the start or a restart of play; hence (Colloq.),  any arrangement of persons (rarely, of things), esp. when having a common purpose or sentiment; as, the line-up at a ticket- office window; the line-up of political factions.  -LING -ling. Etym: [AS. -ling.]  A noun suffix, commonly having a diminutive or a depreciatory force; as in duck-ling, dosling, hireling, fosterling, firstling, underling.  -LING -ling  . An adverbial suffix; as, darkling, flatling. 

LING:  Heather (Calluna vulgaris). Ling honey, a sort of wild honey, made from the flowers of the heather. Holland.  LINGA; LINGAM Lin"ga, Lin"gam, n. Etym: [Skr. linga.]  The phallic symbol under which Siva is principally worshiped in his character of the creative and reproductive power. Whitworth. E. Arnold.  LING-BIRD Ling"-bird`, n. (Zoöl.)  The European meadow pipit; -- called also titling. 

LINGENCE:  A linctus. [Obs.] Fuller. 

LINGER:  To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow or reluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be in suspense; to hesitate. Nor cast one longing, lingering look behind. Gray. Perhaps thou linger'st, in deep thoughts detained. Milton.  Syn.  -- To loiter; lag; saunter; delay; tarry; stop; hesitate. 

LINGERER:  One who lingers. Guardian. 

LINGERIE:  Linen goods collectively; linen underwear, esp. of women; the clothing of linen and cotton with its lace, etc., worn by a women. 

LINGERINGLY:  With delay; slowly; tediously. 

LINGET:  An ingot. [Written also lingot.] 

LINGISM:  A mode of treating certain diseases, as obesity, by gymnastics; -- proposed by Pehr Henrik Ling, a Swede. See Kinesiatrics. 

LINGLE:  See Lingel. 

LINGO:  Language; speech; dialect. [Slang]  LINGOA WOOD Lin*go"a wood`  . Amboyna wood. 

LINGOT:  A linget or ingot; also, a mold for casting metals. See Linget. 

LINGUACIOUS:  Given to the use of the tongue; loquacious. [Obs.] 

LINGUADENTAL:  Formed or uttered by the joint use of the tongue and teeth, or rather that part of the gum just above the front teeth; dentolingual, as the letters d and t. 

LINGUADENTAL:  An articulation pronounced by the aid or use of the tongue and teeth.  LINGUA FRANCA Lin"gua Fran"ca. Etym: [It., prop., language of the Franks.]  The commercial language of the Levant, -- a mixture of the language of the people of the region and foreign traders. 

LINGUAL:  Of or pertaining to the tongue; uttered by the aid of the tongue; glossal; as, the lingual nerves; a lingual letter. Lingual ribbon. (Zoöl.) See Odontophore. 

LINGUAL:  A consonant sound formed by the aid of the tongue; -- a term especially applied to certain articulations (as those of t, d, th, and n) and to the letters denoting them.  Note: In Sanskrit grammar certain letters, as t, th, d, dh, n, are called linguals, cerebrals, or cacuminals. They are uttered with the tip of the tongue turned up and drawn back into the dome of the palate. 

LINGUALITY:  The quality of being lingual. 

LINGUATULIDA:  Same as Linguatulina. 

LINGUATULINA:  An order of wormlike, degraded, parasitic arachnids. They have two pairs of retractile hooks, near the mouth. Called also Pentastomida.  Note: The adults of some species inhabit the nostrils and nasal sinuses of dogs and other carnivores. The young, after being swallowed by sheep, rabbits, etc., find their way to the lungs and liver and become encysted. These, when eaten by carnivores, develop into the adult forms. 

LINGUIDENTAL:  Linguadental. 

LINGUIFORM:  Having the form of the tongue; tongue-shaped. 

LINGUIST:  Of or pertaining to language; relating to linguistics, or to the affinities of languages. 

LINGUISTICALLY:  In a linguistic manner; from the point of view of a linguist. Tylor. 

LINGUISTICS:  The science of languages, or of the origin, signification, and application of words; glossology. 

LINGULA:  A tonguelike process or part.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of brachiopod shells belonging to the genus Lingula, and related genera. See Brachiopoda, and Illustration in Appendix. Lingula flags (Geol.), a group of strata in the lower Silurian or Cambrian system of Wales, in which some of the layers contain vast numbers of a species of Lingula. 

LINGULATE:  Shaped like the tongue or a strap; ligulate. 

LINIGEROUS:  Bearing flax; producing linen. 

LINIMENT:  A liquid or semiliquid preparation of a consistence thinner than an ointment, applied to the skin by friction, esp. one used as a sedative or a stimulant. 

LINK:  A torch made of tow and pitch, or the like. Shak. 

LINK:  Any one of the several elementary pieces of a mechanism, as the fixed frame, or a rod, wheel, mass of confined liquid, etc., by which relative motion of other parts is produced and constrained.  5. (Mach.)  Any intermediate rod or piece for transmitting force or motion, especially a short connecting rod with a bearing at each end; specifically (Steam Engine), the slotted bar, or connecting piece, to the opposite ends of which the eccentric rods are jointed, and by means of which the movement of the valve is varied, in a link motion.  6. (Surveying)  The length of one joint of Gunter's chain, being the hundredth part of it, or 7.92 inches, the chain being 66 feet in length. Cf. Chain, n., 4.  7. (Chem.)  A bond of affinity, or a unit of valence between atoms; -- applied to a unit of chemical force or attraction.  8. pl.  Sausages; -- because linked together. [Colloq.] 

LINK:  To connect or unite with a link or as with a link; to join; to attach; to unite; to couple. All the tribes and nations that composed it [the Roman Empire] were linked together, not only by the same laws and the same government, but by all the facilities of commodious intercourse, and of frequent communication. Eustace. 

LINK:  To be connected. No one generation could link with the other. Burke. 

LINKAGE:  Manner of linking or of being linked; -- said of the union of atoms or radicals in the molecule.  3. (Geom.)  A system of straight lines or bars, fastened together by joins, and having certain of their points fixed in a plane. It is used to describe straight lines and curves in the plane.  LINKBOY; LINKMAN Link"boy`, Link"man, n. Etym: [See 1st Link.]  A boy or man that carried a link or torch to light passengers.  LINK MOTION Link" mo"tion. (Steam Engine)  A valve gear, consisting of two eccentrics with their rods, giving motion to a slide valve by an adjustable connecting bar, called the link, in such a way that the motion of the engine can be reversed, or the cut-off varied, at will; -- used very generally in locomotives and marine engines.  Note: The illustration shows a link motion for a vertical engine, c representing the shaft carrying two eccentrics, a and b, for making the engine run forward and backward, respectively, their rods e and d being jointed to opposite ends of the slotted link f, in the opening of which is a pin g which is attached to the valve rod h. The valve will receive the motion of the forward eccentric when is in the position shown, and the motion of the backward eccentric when the link is shifted so far to the right as to bring e in line with h, or a compound motion derived from both eccentrics when the link is shifted to intermediate positions, the compound motion causing the valve to cut off the steam at a point determined by the position to which the link may have been shifted. 

LINKS:  A tract of ground laid out for the game of golf; a golfing green.  A second links has recently been opened at Prestwick, and another at Troon, on the same coast. P. P. Alexander. 

LINKWORK:  The twin flower which grows in cold northern climates.  LINNAEAN; LINNEAN Lin*næ"an, Lin*ne"an, a.  Of or pertaining to Linnæus, the celebrated Swedish botanist. Linnaean system (Bot.), the system in which the classes are founded mainly upon the stamens, and the orders upon the pistils; the artificial or sexual system. 

LINNAEITE:  A mineral of pale steel-gray color and metallic luster, occurring in isometric crystals, and also massive. It is a sulphide of cobalt containing some nickel or copper. 

LINNE:  Flax. See Linen. [Obs.] 

LINNET:  Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species (L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage, is chestnut brown above, with the breast more or less crimson. The feathers of its head are grayish brown, tipped with crimson. Called also gray linnet, red linnet, rose linnet, brown linnet, lintie, lintwhite, gorse thatcher, linnet finch, and greater redpoll. The American redpoll linnet (Acanthis linaria) often has the crown and throat rosy. See Redpoll, and Twite. Green linnet (Zoöl.), the European green finch. 

LINOLEATE:  A salt of linoleic acid. 

LINOLEIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, linoleum, or linseed oil; specifically (Chem.), designating an organic acid, a thin yellow oil, found combined as a salt of glycerin in oils of linseed, poppy, hemp, and certain nuts. 

LINOXIN:  A resinous substance obtained as an oxidation product of linoleic acid. [Written also linoxyn.] 

LINSANG:  Any viverrine mammal of the genus Prionodon, inhabiting the East Indies and Southern Asia. The common East Indian linsang (P. gracilis) is white, crossed by broad, black bands. The Guinea linsang (Porana Richardsonii) is brown with black spots. 

LINSEED:  The seeds of flax, from which linseed oil is obtained. [Written also lintseed.] Linseed cake, the solid mass or cake which remains when oil is expressed.  -- Linseed meal, linseed cake reduced to powder.  -- Linseed oil, oil obtained by pressure from flaxseed. 

LINSEY:  Linsey-woolsey.  LINSEY-WOOLSEY Lin"sey-wool"sey, n.  1. Cloth made of linen and wool, mixed.  2. Jargon. [Obs.] Shak.  LINSEY-WOOLSEY Lin"sey-wool"sey, a.  Made of linen and wool; hence, of different and unsuitable parts; mean. Johnson. 

LINSTOCK:  A pointed forked staff, shod with iron at the foot, to hold a lighted match for firing cannon. [Written also lintstock.] 

LINTEL:  A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying the superincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswise fracture.  LINTIE; LINTWHITE Lin"tie, Lint"white`, n. Etym: [AS. linetwige. See Linnet.] (Zoöl.)  See Linnet. Tennyson. 

LINTSEED:  See Linseed. 

LINUM:  A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linum usitatissimum). 

LION:  A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found in Southern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varieties occurring in the different countries. The adult male, in most varieties, has a thick mane of long shaggy hair that adds to his apparent size, which is less than that of the largest tigers. The length, however, is sometimes eleven feet to the base of the tail. The color is a tawny yellow or yellowish brown; the mane is darker, and the terminal tuft of the tail is black. In one variety, called the maneless lion, the male has only a slight mane.  2. (Astron.)  A sign and a constellation; Leo.  3. An object of interest and curiosity, especially a person who is so regarded; as, he was quite a lion in London at that time. Such society was far more enjoyable than that of Edinburgh, for here he was not a lion, but a man. Prof. Wilson. American lion (Zoöl.), the puma or cougar.  -- Lion ant (Zoöl.), the ant-lion.  -- Lion dog (Zoöl.), a fancy dog with a flowing mane, usually clipped to resemble a lion's mane.  -- Lion lizard (Zoöl.), the basilisk.  -- Lion's share, all, or nearly all; the best or largest part; -- from Æsop's fable of the lion hunting in company with certain smaller beasts, and appropriating to himself all the prey. 

LIONCED:  Adorned with lions heads; having arms terminating in lions' heads; -- said of a cross. [Written also leonced.] 

LIONCEL:  A small lion, especially one of several borne in the same coat of arms. 

LIONEL:  The whelp of a lioness; a young lion. 

LIONESS:  A female lion. 

LIONET:  A young or small lion.  LION-HEART Li"on-heart`, n.  A very brave person.  LION-HEARTED Li"on-heart`ed, a.  Very brave; brave and magnanimous. Sir W. Scott. 

LIONHOOD:  State of being a lion. Carlyle. 

LIONISM:  An attracting of attention, as a lion; also, the treating or regarding as a lion. 

LIONLIKE:  Like a lion; brave as a lion. 

LIONLY:  Like a lion; fierce. [Obs.] Milton.  LION'S EAR Li"on's ear`. (Bot.)  A name given in Western South America to certain plants with shaggy tomentose leaves, as species of Culcitium, and Espeletia.  LION'S FOOT Li"on's foot`. (Bot.) (a) A composite plant of the genus Prenanthes, of which several species are found in the United States. (b) The edelweiss. 

LIONSHIP:  The state of being a lion.  LION'S LEAF Li"on's leaf`. (Bot.)  A South European plant of the genus Leontice (L. leontopetalum), the tuberous roots of which contain so much alkali that they are sometimes used as a substitute for soap.  LION'S TAIL Li"on's tail`. (Bot.)  A genus of labiate plants (Leonurus); -- so called from a fancied resemblance of its flower spikes to the tuft of a lion's tail. L. Cardiaca is the common motherwort.  LION'S TOOTH Li"on's tooth`; pl. Lions' teeth (. (Bot.)  See Leontodon. 

LIP:  One of the edges of the aperture of a univalve shell. Lip bit, a pod auger. See Auger.  -- Lip comfort, comfort that is given with words only.  -- Lip comforter, one who comforts with words only.  -- Lip labor, unfelt or insincere speech; hypocrisy. Bale.  -- Lip reading, the catching of the words or meaning of one speaking by watching the motion of his lips without hearing his voice. Carpenter.  -- Lip salve, a salve for sore lips.  -- Lip service, expression by the lips of obedience and devotion without the performance of acts suitable to such sentiments.  -- Lip wisdom, wise talk without practice, or unsupported by experience.  -- Lip work. (a) Talk. (b) Kissing. [Humorous] B. Jonson.  -- Lip make a lip, to drop the under lip in sullenness or contempt. Shak.  -- To shoot out the lip (Script.), to show contempt by protruding the lip. 

LIP:  To clip; to trim. [Obs.] Holland. 

LIPAEMIA:  A condition in which fat occurs in the blood. 

LIPANS:  A tribe of North American Inedians, inhabiting the northern part of Mexico. They belong to the Tinneh stock, and are closely related to the Apaches. 

LIPARIAN:  Any species of a family (Liparidæ) of destructive bombycid moths, as the tussock moths. 

LIPARITE:  A quartzose trachyte; rhyolite. 

LIPIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, fat. The word was formerly used specifically to designate a supposed acid obtained by the oxidation of oleic acid, tallow, wax, etc. 

LIPINIC:  Lipic. 

LIPLESS:  , Having no lips. 

LIPLET:  A little lip. 

LIPOCEPHALA:  Same as Lamellibranchia. 

LIPOCHRIN:  A yellow coloring matter, soluble in ether, contained in the small round fat drops in the retinal epithelium cells. It is best obtained from the eyes of frogs. 

LIPOGRAM:  A writing composed of words not having a certain letters; -- as in the Odyssey of Tryphiodorus there was no A in the first book, no B in the second, and so on. 

LIPOGRAMMATIC:  Omitting a letter; composed of words not having a certain letter or letters; as, lipogrammatic writings. 

LIPOGRAMMATIST:  One who makes a lipogram. 

LIPOMA:  A tumor consisting of fat or adipose tissue.  -- Li*pom"a*tous, a. 

LIPOTHYMIC:  Tending to swoon; fainting. [Written also leipothymic.] 

LIPOTHYMOUS:  Pertaining, or given, to swooning; fainting. 

LIPOTHYMY:  A fainting; a swoon. Jer. Taylor. 

LIPPED:  Labiate. 

LIPPITUDE:  Soreness of eyes; the state of being blear-eyes; blearedness. 

LIPSE:  To lisp. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LIPYL:  A hypothetical radical of glycerin. [Obs.] Berzelius. 

LIQUABLE:  Capable of being melted. 

LIQUATE:  To melt; to become liquid. [Obs.] Woodward. 

LIQUATE:  To separate by fusion, as a more fusible from a less fusible material. 

LIQUATION:  The process of separating, by heat, an easily fusible metal from one less fusible; eliquation. 

LIQUEFACIENT:  An agent, as mercury, iodine, etc., which promotes the liquefying processes of the system, and increases the secretions. 

LIQUEFACTION:  The act, process, or method, of reducing a gas or vapor to a liquid by cold or pressure; as, the liquefaction of oxygen or hydrogen. 

LIQUEFIABLE:  Capable of being changed from a solid to a liquid state. 

LIQUEFIER:  That which liquefies. 

LIQUEFY:  To convert from a solid form to that of a liquid; to melt; to dissolve; and technically, to melt by the sole agency of heat. 

LIQUEFY:  To become liquid. 

LIQUESCENCY:  The quality or state of being liquescent. Johnson. 

LIQUESCENT:  Tending to become liquid; inclined to melt to melt; melting. 

LIQUEUR:  An aromatic alcoholic cordial.  Note: Some liqueurs are prepared by infusing certain woods, fruits, or flowers, in either water or alcohol, and adding sugar, etc. Others are distilled from aromatic or flavoring agents. 

LIQUID:  Being in such a state that the component parts move among themselves, but do not tend to separate from each other as the particles of gases and vapors do; neither solid nor aëriform; as, liquid mercury, in distinction from mercury solidified or in a state of vapor.  3. Flowing or sounding smoothly or without abrupt transitions or harsh tones. "Liquid melody." Crashaw.  4. Pronounced without any jar or harshness; smooth; as, l and r are liquid letters.  5. Fluid and transparent; as, the liquid air.  6. Clear; definite in terms or amount.[Obs.] "Though the debt should be entirely liquid." Ayliffe. Liquid glass. See Soluble glass, under Glass. 

LIQUID:  A letter which has a smooth, flowing sound, or which flows smoothly after a mute; as, l and r, in bla, bra. M and n also are called liquids. Liquid measure, a measure, or system of measuring, for liquids, by the gallon, quart, pint, gill, etc.  LIQUID AIR Liq"uid air. (Physics)  A transparent limpid liquid, slightly blue in color, consisting of a mixture of liquefied oxygen and nitrogen. It is prepared by subjecting air to great pressure and then cooling it by its own expansion to a temperature below the boiling point of its constituents  (N -194º C; O -183º C.). 

LIQUIDAMBAR:  A genus consisting of two species of tall trees having star- shaped leaves, and woody burlike fruit. Liquidambar styraciflua is the North American sweet qum, and L. Orientalis is found in Asia Minor.  2. The balsamic juice which is obtained from these trees by incision. The liquid balsam of the Oriental tree is liquid storax. 

LIQUIDAMBER:  See Liquidambar. 

LIQUIDATE:  To determine by agreement or by litigation the precise amount of (indebtedness); or, where there is an indebtedness to more than one person, to determine the precise amount of (each indebtedness); to make the amount of (an indebtedness); clear and certain. A debt or demand is liquidated whenever the amount due is agreed on by the parties, or fixed by the operation of law. 15 Ga. Rep. 821. If our epistolary accounts were fairly liquidated, I believe you would be brought in considerable debtor. Chesterfield.  2. In an extended sense: To ascertain the amount, or the several amounts, of , and apply assets toward the discharge of (an indebtedness). Abbott.  3. To discharge; to pay off, as an indebtedness. Friburg was ceded to Zurich by Sigismund to liquidate a debt of a thousand florins. W. Coxe.  4. To make clear and intelligible. Time only can liquidate the meaning of all parts of a compound system. A. Hamilton.  5. To make liquid. [Obs.] Liquidated damages (Law), damages the amount of which is fixed or ascertained. Abbott. 

LIQUIDATION:  The act or process of liquidating; the state of being liquidated. To go into liquidation (Law), to turn over to a trustee one's assets and accounts, in order that the several amounts of one's indebtedness be authoritatively ascertained, and that the assets may be applied toward their discharge. 

LIQUIDITY:  The state or quality of being liquid. 

LIQUIDIZE:  To render liquid. 

LIQUIDLY:  In a liquid manner; flowingly. 

LIQUIDNESS:  The quality or state of being liquid; liquidity; fluency. 

LIQUOR:  A solution of a medicinal substance in water; -- distinguished from tincture and aqua.  Note: The U. S. Pharmacopoeia includes, in this class of preparations, all aqueous solutions without sugar, in which the substance acted on is wholly soluble in water, excluding those in which the dissolved matter is gaseous or very volatile, as in the aquæ or waters. U. S. Disp. Labarraque's liquor (Old Chem.), a solution of an alkaline hypochlorite, as sodium hypochlorite, used in bleaching and as a disinfectant.  -- Liquor of flints, or Liquor silicum (Old Chem.), soluble glass; - - so called because formerly made from powdered flints. See Soluble glass, under Glass.  -- Liquor of Libavius. (Old Chem.) See Fuming liquor of Libavius, under Fuming.  -- Liquor sanguinis (, (Physiol.), the blood plasma.  -- Liquor thief, a tube for taking samples of liquor from a cask through the bung hole.  -- To be in liquor, to be intoxicated. 

LIQUORICE:  See Licorice. 

LIQUORISH:  See Lickerish. [Obs.] Shak. 

LIQUOROUS:  Eagerly desirous. See Lickerish. [Obs.] Marston. 

LIRA:  An Italian coin equivalent in value to the French franc. 

LIRELLA:  A linear apothecium furrowed along the middle; the fruit of certain lichens. 

LIRELLIFORM:  Like a lirella. [Written also lirellæform.] 

LIRIODENDRON:  A genus of large and very beautiful trees of North America, having smooth, shining leaves, and handsome, tuliplike flowers; tulip tree; whitewood; -- called also canoewood. Liriodendron tulipifera is the only extant species, but there were several others in the Cretaceous epoch. 

LIRIPIPE:  See Liripoop. 

LIROCONITE:  A hydrated arseniate of copper, occurring in obtuse pyramidal crystals of a sky-blue or verdigris-green color. 

LISBON:  A sweet, light-colored species of wine, produced in the province of Estremadura, and so called as being shipped from Lisbon, in Portugal. 

LISLE:  A city of France celebrated for certain manufactures. Lisle glove, a fine summer glove, made of Lisle thread.  -- Lisle lace, a fine handmade lace, made at Lisle.  -- Lisle thread, a hard twisted cotton thread, originally produced at Lisle. 

LISNE:  A cavity or hollow.[Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

LISP:  The habit or act of lisping. See Lisp, v. i., 1. I overheard her answer, with a very pretty lisp, "O! Strephon, you are a dangerous creature." Tatler. 

LISPER:  One who lisps. 

LISPINGLY:  With a lisp; in a lisping manner. 

LISS:  Release; remission; ease; relief. [Obs.] "Of penance had a lisse." Chaucer. 

LISS:  To free, as from care or pain; to relieve. [Obs.] "Lissed of his care." Chaucer. 

LISSENCEPHALA:  A general name for all those placental mammals that have a brain with few or no cerebral convolutions, as Rodentia, Insectivora, etc.  LISSOM; LISSOME Lis"som, Lis"some, a. Etym: [For lithesome.]  1. Limber; supple; flexible; lithe; lithesome. Straight, but as lissome as a hazel wand. Tennyson.  2. Light; nimble; active. Halliwell.  -- Lis"some*ness, n. 

LIST:  A line inclosing or forming the extremity of a piece of ground, or field of combat; hence, in the plural (lists), the ground or field inclosed for a race or combat. Chaucer. In measured lists to toss the weighty lance. Pope. To enter the lists, to accept a challenge, or engage in contest. 

LIST:  To inclose for combat; as, to list a field. 

LIST:  To hearken; to attend; to listen. [Obs. except in poetry.] Stand close, and list to him. Shak. 

LIST:  To listen or hearken to. Then weigh what loss your honor may sustain, If with too credent ear you list his songs. Shak. 

LIST:  To lean; to incline; as, the ship lists to port. 

LIST:  An inclination to one side; as, the ship has a list to starboard. 

LIST:  A little square molding; a fillet; -- called also listel.  7. (Carp.)  A narrow strip of wood, esp. sapwood, cut from the edge of a plank or board.  8. (Rope Making)  A piece of woolen cloth with which the yarns are grasped by a workman.  9. (Tin-plate Manuf.) (a) The first thin coat of tin. (b) A wirelike rim of tin left on an edge of the plate after it is coated. Civil list (Great Britain & U.S.), the civil officers of government, as judges, ambassadors, secretaries, etc. Hence, the revenues or appropriations of public money for the support of the civil officers. More recently, the civil list, in England, embraces only the expenses of the reigning monarch's household. Free list. (a) A list of articles admitted to a country free of duty. (b) A list of persons admitted to any entertainment, as a theater or opera, without payment, or to whom a periodical, or the like, is furnished without cost.  Syn.  -- Roll; catalogue; register; inventory; schedule.  -- List, Boll, Catalogue, Register, Inventory, Schedule. Alist is properly a simple series of names, etc., in a brief form, such as might naturally be entered in a narrow strip of paper. A roll was originally a list containing the names of persons belonging to a public body (as Parliament, etc.), which was rolled up and laid aside among its archives. A catalogue is a list of persons or things arranged in order, and usually containing some description of the same, more or less extended. A register is designed for record or preservation. An inventory is a list of articles, found on hand in a store of goods, or in the estate of a deceased person, or under similar circumstances. A schedule is a formal list or inventory prepared for legal or business purposes. 

LIST:  To cut away a narrow strip, as of sapwood, from the edge of; as, to list a board. To list a stock (Stock Exchange), to put it in the list of stocks called at the meeting of the board. 

LIST:  To engage in public service by enrolling one's name; to enlist. 

LISTEL:  Same as List, n., 6. 

LISTEN:  To attend to. [Obs.] Shak. 

LISTENER:  One who listens; a hearkener. 

LISTER:  One who makes a list or roll. 

LISTER:  Same as Leister. 

LISTERIAN:  Of or pertaining to listerism. 

LISTERISM:  The systematic use of antiseptics in the performance of operations and the treatment of wounds; -- so called from Joseph Lister, an English surgeon. 

LISTERIZE:  To make antiseptic. 

LISTFUL:  Attentive [Obs.] Spenser. 

LISTING:  The sapwood cut from the edge of a board.  4. (Agric.)  The throwing up of the soil into ridges, -- a method adopted in the culture of beets and some garden crops. [Local, U. S.] 

LISTLESS:  Having no desire or inclination; indifferent; heedless; spiritless. " A listless unconcern." Thomson. Benumbed with cold, and listless of their gain. Dryden. I was listless, and desponding. Swift.  Syn.  -- Heedless; careless; indifferent; vacant; uninterested; languid; spiritless; supine; indolent.  -- List"less*ly, adv.  -- List"less*ness, n. 

LIT:  , a form of the imp. & p. p. of Light. 

LITANY:  A solemn form of supplication in the public worship of various churches, in which the clergy and congregation join, the former leading and the latter responding in alternate sentences. It is usually of a penitential character. Supplications . . . for the appeasing of God's wrath were of the Greek church termed litanies, and rogations of the Latin. Hooker. 

LITARGE:  Litharge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LITCHI:  The fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi). It is nutlike, having a rough but tender shell, containing an aromatic pulp, and a single large seed. In the dried fruit which is exported the pulp somewhat resembles a raisin in color and form. [Written also lichi, and lychee.] -- lite. See -lith. 

LITE:  Little. [Obs.] Chaucer.  LITER; LITRE Li"ter, Li"tre, n. Etym: [F. litre, Gr.  A measure of capacity in the metric system, being a cubic decimeter, equal to 61.022 cubic inches, or 2.113 American pints, or 1.76 English pints. 

LITERACY:  State of being literate. 

LITERAL:  Literal meaning. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

LITERALISM:  The tendency or disposition to represent objects faithfully, without abstraction, conventionalities, or idealization. 

LITERALIST:  One who adheres to the letter or exact word; an interpreter according to the letter. 

LITERALITY:  The state or quality of being literal. Sir T. Browne. 

LITERALIZATION:  The act of literalizing; reduction to a literal meaning. 

LITERALIZE:  To make literal; to interpret or put in practice according to the strict meaning of the words; -- opposed to spiritualize; as, to literalize Scripture. 

LITERALIZER:  A literalist. 

LITERALNESS:  The quality or state of being literal; literal import. 

LITERATE:  Instructed in learning, science, or literature; learned; lettered. The literate now chose their emperor, as the military chose theirs. Landor. 

LITERATI:  Learned or literary men. See Literatus. Shakespearean commentators, and other literati. Craik. 

LITERATIM:  Letter for letter. 

LITERATION:  The act or process of representing by letters. 

LITERATUS:  A learned man; a man acquainted with literature; -- chiefly used in the plural. Now we are to consider that our bright ideal of a literatus may chance to be maimed. De Quincey.  -LITH; -LITE -lith, -lite.  Combining forms fr. Gr. li`qos a stone; -- used chiefly in naming minerals and rocks. 

LITH:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Lie, to recline, for lieth. Chaucer. 

LITH:  A joint or limb; a division; a member; a part formed by growth, and articulated to, or symmetrical with, other parts. Chaucer. 

LITHAEMIA:  A condition in which uric (lithic) acid is present in the blood. 

LITHAGOGUE:  A medicine having, or supposed to have, the power of expelling calculous matter with the urine. Hooper. 

LITHARGE:  Lead monoxide; a yellowish red substance, obtained as an amorphous powder, or crystallized in fine scales, by heating lead moderately in a current of air or by calcining lead nitrate or carbonate. It is used in making flint glass, in glazing earthenware, in making red lead minium, etc. Called also massicot. 

LITHARGYRUM:  Crystallized litharge, obtained by fusion in the form of fine yellow scales. 

LITHATE:  A salt of lithic or uric acid; a urate. [Obs.] [Written also lithiate.] 

LITHE:  To listen or listen to; to hearken to. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 

LITHE:  To smooth; to soften; to palliate. [Obs.] 

LITHELY:  In a lithe, pliant, or flexible manner. 

LITHENESS:  The quality or state of being lithe; flexibility; limberness. 

LITHER:  Bad; wicked; false; worthless; slothful. [Obs.] Chaucer. Not lither in business, fervent in spirit. Bp. Woolton.  Note: Professor Skeat thinks " the lither sky" as found in Shakespeare's Henry VI. ((Part I. IY. YII., 21) means the stagnant or pestilential sky.  -- Li"ther*ly, adv. [Obs.].  -- Li"ther*ness, n. [Obs.] 

LITHERLY:  Crafty; cunning; mischievous; wicked; treacherous; lazy.[Archaic] He [the dwarf] was waspish, arch, and litherly. Sir W. Scott. 

LITHESOME:  Pliant; limber; flexible; supple; nimble; lissom.  -- Lithe"some*ness, n. 

LITHIA:  The oxide of lithium; a strong alkaline caustic similar to potash and soda, but weaker. See Lithium. Lithia emerald. See Hiddenite. 

LITHIASIS:  The formation of stony concretions or calculi in any part of the body, especially in the bladder and urinary passages. Dunglison. 

LITHIC:  Pertaining to the formation of uric-acid concretions (stone) in the bladder and other parts of the body; as, lithic diathesis. LIthic acid (Old Med. Chem.), uric acid. See Uric acid, under Uric. 

LITHIC:  A medicine which tends to prevent stone in the bladder. 

LITHIC:  Pertaining to or denoting lithium or some of its compounds. Frankland. 

LITHIOPHILITE:  A phosphate of manganese and lithium; a variety of triphylite. 

LITHIUM:  A metallic element of the alkaline group, occurring in several minerals, as petalite, spodumene, lepidolite, triphylite, etc., and otherwise widely disseminated, though in small quantities.  Note: When isolated it is a soft, silver white metal, tarnishing and oxidizing very rapidly in the air. It is the lightest solid element known, specific gravity being 0.59. Symbol Li. Atomic weight 7.0 So called from having been discovered in a mineral. 

LITHO:  A combining form from Gr. stone. 

LITHOBILIC:  Pertaining to or designating an organic acid of the tartaric acid series, distinct from lithofellic acid, but, like it, obtained from certain bile products, as bezoar stones. 

LITHOCARP:  Fossil fruit; a fruit petrified; a carpolite. 

LITHOCHROMATICS:  See Lithochromics. 

LITHOCHROMICS:  The art of printing colored pictures on canvas from oil paintings on stone. 

LITHOCLAST:  An instrument for crushing stones in the bladder. 

LITHOCYST:  A sac containing small, calcareous concretions (otoliths). They are found in many Medusæ, and other invertebrates, and are supposed to be auditory organs. 

LITHODOME:  Any one of several species of bivalves, which form holes in limestone, in which they live; esp., any species of the genus Lithodomus. 

LITHODOMOUS:  Like, or pertaining to, Lithodomus; lithophagous. 

LITHODOMUS:  A genus of elongated bivalve shells, allied to the mussels, and remarkable for their ability to bore holes for shelter, in solid limestone, shells, etc. Called also Lithophagus.  Note: These holes are at first very small and shallow, but are enlarged with the growth of the shell, sometimes becoming two or three inches deep and nearly an inch diameter. 

LITHOFELLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline, organic acid, resembling cholic acid, found in the biliary intestinal concretions (bezoar stones) common in certain species of antelope. 

LITHOFRACTEUR:  An explosive compound of nitroglycerin. See Nitroglycerin. 

LITHOGENESY:  The doctrine or science of the origin of the minerals composing the globe. 

LITHOGENOUS:  Stone-producing; -- said of polyps which form coral. 

LITHOGLYPH:  An engraving on a gem. 

LITHOGLYPHER:  One who curs or engraves precious stones. 

LITHOGLYPHIC:  Of or pertaining to the art of cutting and engraving precious stones. 

LITHOGLYPTICS:  The art of cutting and engraving gems. 

LITHOGRAPH:  To trace on stone by the process of lithography so as to transfer the design to paper by printing; as, to lithograph a design; to lithograph a painting. See Lithography. 

LITHOGRAPH:  A print made by lithography. 

LITHOGRAPHER:  One who lithographs; one who practices lithography.  LITHOGRAPHIC; LITHOGRAPHICAL Lith`o*graph"ic, Lith`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lithographique.]  Of or pertaining to lithography; made by lithography; as, the lithographic art; a lithographic picture. Lithographic limestone (Min.), a compact, fine-grained limestone, obtained largely from the Lias and Oölite, esp. of Bavaria, and extensively used in lithography.  -- Lith`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

LITHOGRAPHY:  The art or process of putting designs or writing, with a greasy material, on stone, and of producing printed impressions therefrom. The process depends, in the main, upon the antipathy between grease and water, which prevents a printing ink containing oil from adhering to wetted parts of the stone not covered by the design. See Lithographic limestone, under Lithographic.  LITHOID; LITHOIDAL Lith"oid Li*thoid"al, a. Etym: [Litho- + -oid: cf. F. lithoïde.]  Like a stone; having a stony structure. 

LITHOLATRY:  The worship of a stone or stones.  LITHOLOGIC; LITHOLOGICAL Lith`o*log"ic, Lith`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. lithologique.]  1. (Geol.)  Of or pertaining to the character of a rock, as derived from the nature and mode of aggregation of its mineral contents.  2. Of or pertaining to lithology. 

LITHOLOGICALLY:  From a lithological point of view; as, to consider a stratum lithologically. 

LITHOLOGIST:  One who is skilled in lithology. 

LITHOLOGY:  A treatise on stones found in the body. 

LITHOMANCY:  Divination by means of stones. 

LITHOMARGE:  A clay of a fine smooth texture, and very sectile.  LITHONTHRIPTIC; LITHONTHRYPTIC Lith`on*thrip"tic, Lith`on*thryp"tic, a. & n. Etym: [Litho- + Gr.  Same as Lithontriptic. 

LITHONTRIPTIC:  Having the quality of, or used for, dissolving or destroying stone in the bladder or kidneys; as, lithontriptic forcéps.  -- n.  A lithontriptic remedy or agent, as distilled water. 

LITHONTRIPTIST:  Same as Lithotriptist. 

LITHONTRIPTOR:  See Lithotriptor. 

LITHOPHANE:  Porcelain impressed with figures which are made distinct by transmitted light, -- as when hung in a window, or used as a lamp shade. 

LITHOPHOSPHOR:  A stone that becomes phosphoric by heat. 

LITHOPHOSPHORIC:  Pertaining to lithophosphor; becoming phosphoric by heat. 

LITHOPHOTOGRAPHY:  Same as Photolithography. 

LITHOPHYLL:  A fossil leaf or impression of a leaf. 

LITHOPHYSE:  A spherulitic cavity often with concentric chambers, observed in some volcanic rocks, as in rhyolitic lavas. It is supposed to be produced by expanding gas, whence the name. 

LITHOPHYTE:  A hard, or stony, plantlike organism, as the gorgonians, corals, and corallines, esp. those gorgonians having a calcareous axis. All the lithophytes except the corallines are animals. 

LITHOPHYTIC:  Of or pertaining to lithophytes. 

LITHOPHYTOUS:  Lithophytic. 

LITHOSIAN:  Any one of various species of moths belonging to the family Lithosidæ. Many of them are beautifully colored. 

LITHOTOME:  An instrument used for cutting the bladder in operations for the stone.  LITHOTOMIC; LITHOTOMICAL Lith`o*tom"ic, Lith`o*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. lithotomique.]  Pertaining to, or performed by, lithotomy. 

LITHOTOMIST:  One who performs the operation of cutting for stone in the bladder, or one who is skilled in the operation. 

LITHOTOMY:  The operation, art, or practice of cutting for stone in the bladder. 

LITHOTRIPSY:  The operation of crushing a stone in the bladder with an instrument called lithotriptor or lithotrite; lithotrity. 

LITHOTRIPTIC:  Same as Lithontriptic. 

LITHOTRIPTIST:  One skilled in breaking and extracting stone in the bladder. 

LITHOTRIPTOR:  An instrument for triturating the stone in the bladder; a lithotrite.  LITHOTRITE; LITHOTRITOR Lith"o*trite, Lith"o*tri"tor,Etym: [See Lithotrity.] (Surg.)  A lithotriptor. 

LITHOTRITIST:  A lithotriptist. 

LITHOTRITY:  The operation of breaking a stone in the bladder into small pieces capable of being voided. 

LITHOTYPE:  A kind of stereotype plate made by lithotypy; also, that which in printed from it. See Lithotypy. 

LITHOTYPE:  To prepare for printing with plates made by the process of lithotypy. See Lithotypy. 

LITHOTYPIC:  Of, pertaining to, or produced by, lithotypy. 

LITHOTYPY:  The art or process of making a kind of hard, stereotypeplate, by pressing into a mold, taken from a page of type or other matter, a composition of gum shell-lac and sand of a fine quality, together with a little tar and linseed oil, all in a heated state. 

LITHOXYL:  Petrified wood. [Obs.] 

LITHUANIAN:  Of or pertaining to Lithuania (formerly a principality united with Poland, but now Russian and Prussian territory). 

LITHUANIAN:  A native, or one of the people, of Lithuania; also, the language of the Lithuanian people. 

LITHY:  Easily bent; pliable. Lithy tree (Bot.), a European shrub (Viburnum Lantana); -- so named from its tough and flexible stem. 

LITIGABLE:  Such as can be litigated. 

LITIGANT:  Disposed to litigate; contending in law; engaged in a lawsuit; as, the parties litigant. Ayliffe. 

LITIGANT:  A person engaged in a lawsuit. 

LITIGATE:  To make the subject of a lawsuit; to contest in law; to prosecute or defend by pleadings, exhibition of evidence, and judicial debate in a court; as, to litigate a cause. 

LITIGATE:  To carry on a suit by judicial process. 

LITIGATION:  The act or process of litigating; a suit at law; a judicial contest. 

LITIGATOR:  One who litigates. 

LITIGIOUSLY:  In a litigious manner. 

LITIGIOUSNESS:  The state of being litigious; disposition to engage in or carry on lawsuits. 

LITMUS:  A dyestuff extracted from certain lichens (Roccella tinctoria, Lecanora tartarea, etc.), as a blue amorphous mass which consists of a compound of the alkaline carbonates with certain coloring matters related to orcin and orcein.  Note: Litmus is used as a dye, and being turned red by acids and restored to its blue color by alkalies, is a common indicator or test for acidity and alkalinity. Litmus paper (Chem.), unsized paper saturated with blue or red litmus, -- used in testing for acids or alkalies. 

LITOTES:  A diminution or softening of statement for the sake of avoiding censure or increasing the effect by contrast with the moderation shown in the form of expression; as, " a citizen of no mean city," that is, of an illustrious city. 

LITRANETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of liquids. 

LITRE:  Same as Liter. 

LITTERATEUR:  One who occupies himself with literature; a literary man; a literatus. " Befriended by one kind-hearted littérateur after another." C. Kingsley. 

LITTERY:  Covered or encumbered with litter; consisting of or constituting litter. 

LITTLE:  In a small quantity or degree; not much; slightly; somewhat; -- often with a preceding it. " The poor sleep little." Otway.  LITTLE-EASE Lit"tle-ease`, n.  An old slang name for the pillory, stocks, etc., of a prison.[Eng.] Latimer. 

LITTLENESS:  The state or quality of being little; as, littleness of size, thought, duration, power, etc.  Syn.  -- Smallness; slightness; inconsiderableness; narrowness; insignificance; meanness; penuriousness. 

LITTORAL:  Inhabiting the seashore, esp. the zone between high-water and low-water mark. 

LITTORINA:  A genus of small pectinibranch mollusks, having thick spiral shells, abundant between tides on nearly all rocky seacoasts. They feed on seaweeds. The common periwinkle is a well-known example. See Periwinkle. 

LITTRESS:  A smooth kind of cartridge paper used for making cards. Knight. 

LITUATE:  Forked, with the points slightly curved outward. 

LITUIFORM:  Having the form of a lituus; like a lituite. 

LITUITE:  Any species of ammonites of the genus Lituites. They are found in the Cretaceous formation. 

LITURATE:  Having indistinct spots, paler at their margins.  2. (Bot.)  Spotted, as if from abrasions of the surface.  LITURGIC; LITURGICAL Li*tur"gic, Li*tur"gic*al,Etym: [Gr. liturgique.]  Pertaining to, of or the nature of, a liturgy; of or pertaining to public prayer and worship. T. Warton. 

LITURGICALLY:  In the manner of a liturgy. 

LITURGICS:  The science of worship; history, doctrine, and interpretation of liturgies. 

LITURGIOLOGIST:  One versed in liturgiology. 

LITURGIOLOGY:  The science treating of liturgical matters; a treatise on, or description of, liturgies. Shipley. 

LITURGIST:  One who favors or adheres strictly to a liturgy. Milton. 

LITURGY:  An established formula for public worship, or the entire ritual for public worship in a church which uses prescribed forms; a formulary for public prayer or devotion. In the Roman Catholic Church it includes all forms and services in any language, in any part of the world, for the celebration of Mass. 

LITUUS:  A spiral whose polar equation is r2th = a; that is, a curve the square of whose radius vector varies inversely as the angle which the radius vector makes with a given line. 

LIVE:  Imparting power; having motion; as, the live spindle of a lathe. Live birth, the condition of being born in such a state that acts of life are manifested after the extrusion of the whole body. Dunglison.  -- Live box, a cell for holding living objects under microscopical examination. P. H. Gosse.  -- Live feathers, feathers which have been plucked from the living bird, and are therefore stronger and more elastic.  -- Live gang. (Sawing) See under Gang.  -- Live grass (Bot.), a grass of the genus Eragrostis.  -- Live load (Engin.), a suddenly applied load; a varying load; a moving load; as a moving train of cars on a bridge, or wind pressure on a roof. Live oak (Bot.), a species of oak (Quercus virens), growing in the Southern States, of great durability, and highly esteemed for ship timber. In California the Q. chrysolepis and some other species are also called live oaks.  -- Live ring (Engin.), a circular train of rollers upon which a swing bridge, or turntable, rests, and which travels around a circular track when the bridge or table turns.  -- Live steam , steam direct from the boiler, used for any purpose, in distinction from exhaust steam.  -- Live stock, horses, cattle, and other domestic animals kept on a farm. whole body. 

LIVE:  Life. [Obs.] Chaucer. On live, in life; alive. [Obs.] See Alive. Chaucer. 

LIVED:  Having life; -- used only in composition; as, long-lived; short-lived.  LIVE-FOREVER Live"-for*ev`er, n. (Bot.)  A plant (Sedum Telephium) with fleshy leaves, which has extreme powers of resisting drought; garden ox-pine. 

LIVELIHED:  See Livelihood. [Obs.] 

LIVELIHOOD:  Subsistence or living, as dependent on some means of support; support of life; maintenance. The opportunities of gaining an honest livelihood. Addison. It is their profession and livelihood to get their living by practices for which they deserve to forfeit their lives. South. 

LIVELIHOOD:  Liveliness; appearance of life. [Obs.] Shak. 

LIVELILY:  In a lively manner. [Obs.] Lamb. 

LIVELODE:  Course of life; means of support; livelihood. [Obs.] 

LIVER:  A very large glandular and vascular organ in the visceral cavity of all vertebrates.  Note: Most of the venous blood from the alimentary canal passes through it on its way back to the heart; and it secretes the bile, produces glycogen, and in other ways changes the blood which passes through it. In man it is situated immediately beneath the diaphragm and mainly on the right side. See Bile, Digestive, and Glycogen. The liver of invertebrate animals is usually made up of cæcal tubes, and differs materially, in form and function, from that of vertebrates. Floating liver. See Wandering liver, under Wandering.  -- Liver of antimony, Liver of sulphur. (Old Chem.) See Hepar.  -- Liver brown, Liver color, the color of liver, a dark, reddish brown.  -- Liver shark (Zoöl.), a very large shark (Cetorhinus maximus), inhabiting the northern coasts both of Europe and North America. It sometimes becomes forty feet in length, being one of the largest sharks known; but it has small simple teeth, and is not dangerous. It is captured for the sake of its liver, which often yields several barrels of oil. It has gill rakers, resembling whalebone, by means of which it separates small animals from the sea water. Called also basking shark, bone shark, hoemother, homer, and sailfish.  -- Liver spots, yellowish brown patches or spots of chloasma. 

LIVER:  The glossy ibis (Ibis falcinellus); -- said to have given its name to the city of Liverpool.  LIVER-COLORED Liv"er-col`ored, a.  Having a color like liver; dark reddish brown. 

LIVERED:  Having (such) a liver; used in composition; as, white-livered.  LIVER-GROWN Liv"er-grown`, a.  Having an enlarged liver. Dunglison. 

LIVERIED:  Wearing a livery. See Livery, 3. The liveried servants wait. Parnell. 

LIVERING:  A kind of pudding or sausage made of liver or pork. [Obs.] Chapman. 

LIVERLEAF:  Same as Liverwort. 

LIVERY:  To clothe in, or as in, livery. Shak. 

LIVERYMAN:  . A stable where horses are kept for hire, and where stabling is provided. See Livery, n., 3 (e) (f) & (g). 

LIVES:  pl. of Life. 

LIVES:  Alive; living; with life. [Obs.] " Any lives creature." Chaucer. 

LIVID:  Black and blue; grayish blue; of a lead color; discolored, as flesh by contusion. Cowper. There followed no carbuncles, no purple or livid spots, the mass of the blood not being tainted. Bacon. 

LIVIDITY:  The state or quality of being livid. 

LIVIDNESS:  Lividity. Walpole. 

LIVINGLY:  In a living state. Sir T. Browne. 

LIVINGNESS:  The state or quality of being alive; possession of energy or vigor; animation; quickening.  LIVING PICTURE Liv"ing pic"ture.  A tableau in which persons take part; also, specif., such a tableau as imitating a work of art. 

LIVONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Livonia, a district of Russia near the Baltic Sea. 

LIVONIAN:  A native or an inhabitant of Livonia; the language (allied to the Finnish) of the Livonians. 

LIVOR:  Malignity. [P.] Burton. 

LIVRAISON:  A part of a book or literary composition printed and delivered by itself; a number; a part. 

LIVRE:  A French money of account, afterward a silver coin equal to 20 sous. It is not now in use, having been superseded by the franc. 

LIXIVIATE:  To subject to a washing process for the purpose of separating soluble material from that which is insoluble; to leach, as ashes, for the purpose of extracting the alkaline substances. 

LIXIVIATION:  Lixiviating; the process of separating a soluble substance form one that is insoluble, by washing with some solvent, as water; leaching. 

LIXIVIOUS:  See Lixivial. 

LIXIVIUM:  A solution of alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; hence, any solution obtained by lixiviation. 

LIXT:  2d pers. sing. pres. of Lige, to lie, to tell lies, -- contracted for ligest. Chaucer. 

LIZA:  The American white mullet (Mugil curema). 

LIZARD:  Any one of the numerous species of reptiles belonging to the order Lacertilia; sometimes, also applied to reptiles of other orders, as the Hatteria.  Note: Most lizards have an elongated body, with four legs, and a long tail; but there are some without legs, and some with a short, thick tail. Most have scales, but some are naked; most have eyelids, but some do not. The tongue is varied in form and structure. In some it is forked, in others, as the chameleons, club-shaped, and very extensible. See Amphisbæna, Chameleon, Gecko, Gila monster, Horned toad, Iguana, and Dragon, 6.  2. (Naut.)  A piece of rope with thimble or block spliced into one or both of the ends. R. H. Dana, Ir.  3. A piece of timber with a forked end, used in dragging a heavy stone, a log, or the like, from a field. Lizard fish (Zoöl.), a marine scopeloid fish of the genus Synodus, or Saurus, esp. S. foetens of the Southern United States and West Indies; -- called also sand pike.  -- Lizard snake (Zoöl.), the garter snake (Eutænia sirtalis).  -- Lizard stone (Min.), a kind of serpentine from near Lizard Point, Cornwall, England, -- used for ornamental purposes.  LIZARD'S TAIL Liz"ard's tail`. (Bot.)  A perennial plant of the genus Saururus (S. cernuus), growing in marshes, and having white flowers crowded in a slender terminal spike, somewhat resembling in form a lizard's tail; whence the name. Gray. 

LLAMA:  A South American ruminant (Auchenia llama), allied to the camels, but much smaller and without a hump. It is supposed to be a domesticated variety of the guanaco. It was formerly much used as a beast of burden in the Andes.  LLANDEILO GROUP Llan*dei"lo group`. (Geol.)  A series of strata in the lower Silurian formations of Great Britain; -- so named from Llandeilo in Southern Wales. See Chart of Geology. 

LLANERO:  One of the inhabitants of the llanos of South America. 

LLANO:  An extensive plain with or without vegetation. [Spanish America]  LLOYD'S Lloyd's, n.  1. An association of underwriters and others in London, for the collection and diffusion of marine intelligence, the insurance, classification, registration, and certifying of vessels, and the transaction of business of various kinds connected with shipping.  2. A part of the Royal Exchange, in London, appropriated to the use of underwriters and insurance brokers; -- called also Lloyd's Rooms.  Note: The name is derived from Lloyd's Coffee House, in Lombard Street, where there were formerly rooms for the same purpose. The name Lloyd or Lloyd's has been taken by several associations, in different parts of Europe, established for purposes similar to those of the original association. Lloyd's agents, persons employed in various parts of the world, by the association called Lloyd's, to serve its interests.  -- Lloyd's list, a publication of the latest news respecting shipping matters, with lists of vessels, etc., made under the direction of Lloyd's. Brande & C.  -- Lloyd's register, a register of vessels rated according to their quality, published yearly. 

LO:  Look; see; behold; observe. " Lo, here is Christ." Matt. xxiv. 23. " Lo, we turn to the Gentiles." Acts xiii. 46. 

LOACH:  Any one of several small, fresh-water, cyprinoid fishes of the genera Cobitis, Nemachilus, and allied genera, having six or more barbules around the mouth. They are found in Europe and Asia. The common European species (N. barbatulus) is used as a food fish. 

LOAD:  The work done by a steam engine or other prime mover when working. Load line, or Load water line (Naut.), the line on the outside of a vessel indicating the depth to which it sinks in the water when loaded.  Syn.  -- Burden; lading; weight; cargo. See Burden. 

LOADER:  One who, or that which, loads; a mechanical contrivance for loading, as a gun. 

LOADING:  Pilotage; skill of a pilot or loadsman. [Obs.] Chaucer.  LOADSMAN; LODESMAN Loads"man, Lodes"man, n. Etym: [Load, lode + man. See Lode.]  A pilot. [Obs.] Chaucer.  LOADSTAR; LODESTAR Load"star`, Lode"star`, n. Etym: [Load, lode + star. See Lode.]  A star that leads; a guiding star; esp., the polestar; the cynosure. Chaucer. " Your eyes are lodestars." Shak. The pilot can no loadstar see. Spenser.  LOADSTONE; LODESTONE Load"stone`, Lode"stone, n. Etym: [Load, lode + stone.] (Min.)  A piece of magnetic iron ore possessing polarity like a magnetic needle. See Magnetite. 

LOAF:  Any thick lump, mass, or cake; especially, a large regularly shaped or molded mass, as of bread, sugar, or cake. Bacon. Loaf sugar, refined sugar that has been formed into a conical loaf in a mold. 

LOAF:  To spend time in idleness; to lounge or loiter about. " Loafing vagabonds." W. Black. 

LOAF:  To spend in idleness; -- with away; as, to loaf time away. 

LOAFER:  One who loafs; a lazy lounger. Lowell. 

LOAM:  A mixture of sand, clay, and other materials, used in making molds for large castings, often without a pattern. Loam mold (Founding), a mold made with loam. See Loam, n., 2.  -- Loam molding, the process or business of making loam molds. Loam plate, an iron plate upon which a section of a loam mold rests, or from which it is suspended.  -- Loam work, loam molding or loam molds. 

LOAM:  To cover, smear, or fill with loam. 

LOAMY:  Consisting of loam; partaking of the nature of loam; resembling loam. Bacon. 

LOAN:  A loanin. [Scot.] 

LOAN:  To lend; -- sometimes with out. Kent. By way of location or loaning them out. J. Langley (1644). 

LOANABLE:  Such as can be lent; available for lending; as, loanable funds; -- used mostly in financial business and writings.  LOANIN; LOANING Loan"in, Loan"ing, n. Etym: [From Scotch loan, E. lawn.]  An open space between cultivated fields through which cattle are driven, and where the cows are sometimes milked; also, a lane. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

LOANMONGER:  A dealer in, or negotiator of, loans. The millions of the loanmonger. Beaconsfield. 

LOATHE:  To feel disgust or nausea. [Obs.] 

LOATHER:  One who loathes. 

LOATHING:  Extreme disgust; a feeling of aversion, nausea, abhorrence, or detestation. The mutual fear and loathing of the hostile races. Macaulay. 

LOATHINGLY:  With loathing. 

LOATHLINESS:  Loathsomeness. [Obs.] 

LOATHLY:  Loathsome. [Obs.] " Loathly mouth." Spenser. 

LOATHNESS:  Unwillingness; reluctance. A general silence and loathness to speak. Bacon. 

LOATHSOME:  Fitted to cause loathing; exciting disgust; disgusting. The most loathsome and deadly forms of infection. Macaulay. -- Loath"some*ly. adv.  -- Loath"some*ness, n. 

LOATHY:  Loathsome. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LOAVES:  pl. of Loaf. 

LOB:  To let fall heavily or lazily. And their poor jades Lob down their heads. Shak. To lob a ball (Lawn Tennis), to strike a ball so as to send it up into the air. 

LOB:  See Cob, v. t. 

LOB:  The European pollock. 

LOBAR:  Of or pertaining to a lobe; characterized by, or like, a lobe or lobes.  LOBATE; LOBATED Lo"bate, Lo"ba*ted, a. Etym: [See Lobe.]  1. (Bot.)  Consisting of, or having, lobes; lobed; as, a lobate leaf.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) Having lobes; -- said of the tails of certain fishes having the integument continued to the bases of the fin rays. (b) Furnished with membranous flaps, as the toes of a coot. See Illust. (m) under Aves. 

LOBATELY:  As a lobe; so as to make a lobe; in a lobate manner. 

LOBBISH:  Like a lob; consisting of lobs. Sir. P. Sidney. 

LOBBY:  A passage or hall of communication, especially when large enough to serve also as a waiting room. It differs from an antechamber in that a lobby communicates between several rooms, an antechamber to one only; but this distinction is not carefully preserved.  2. That part of a hall of legislation not appropriated to the official use of the assembly; hence, the persons, collectively, who frequent such a place to transact business with the legislators; any persons, not members of a legislative body, who strive to influence its proceedings by personal agency. [U.S.]  3. (Naut.)  An apartment or passageway in the fore part of an old-fashioned cabin under the quarter-deck.  4. (Agric.)  A confined place for cattle, formed by hedges. trees, or other fencing, near the farmyard. Lobby member, a lobbyist. [Humorous cant, U. S.] 

LOBBY:  To address or solicit members of a legislative body in the lobby or elsewhere, with the purpose to influence their votes.[U.S.] Bartlett. 

LOBBY:  To urge the adoption or passage of by soliciting members of a legislative body; as, to lobby a bill. [U.S.] 

LOBBYIST:  A member of the lobby; a person who solicits members of a legislature for the purpose of influencing legislation. [U.S.] 

LOBCOCK:  A dull, sluggish person; a lubber; a lob. [Low] 

LOBE:  Any projection or division, especially one of a somewhat rounded form; as: (a) (Bot.) A rounded projection or division of a leaf. Gray. (b)(Zoöl.)  A membranous flap on the sides of the toes of certain birds, as the coot. (c) (Anat.) A round projecting part of an organ, as of the liver, lungs, brain, etc. See Illust. of Brain. (b) (Mach.) The projecting part of a cam wheel or of a non-circular gear wheel. Lobe of the ear, the soft, fleshy prominence in which the human ear terminates below. See. Illust. of Ear. 

LOBED:  Having lobes; lobate. 

LOBEFOOT:  A bird having lobate toes; esp., a phalarope.  LOBE-FOOTED Lobe"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.)  Lobiped. 

LOBELET:  A small lobe; a lobule. 

LOBELIA:  A genus of plants, including a great number of species. Lobelia inflata, or Indian tobacco, is an annual plant of North America, whose leaves contain a poisonous white viscid juice, of an acrid taste. It has often been used in medicine as an emetic, expectorant, etc. L. cardinalis is the cardinal flower, remarkable for the deep and vivid red color of its flowers. 

LOBELIACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants of which the genus Lobelia is the type. 

LOBELIN:  A yellowish green resin from Lobelia, used as an emetic and diaphoretic. 

LOBELINE:  A poisonous narcotic alkaloid extracted from the leaves of Indian tobacco (Lobelia inflata) as a yellow oil, having a tobaccolike taste and odor. 

LOBIPED:  Having lobate toes, as a coot. 

LOBLOLLY:  Gruel; porridge; -- so called among seamen. Loblolly bay (Bot.), an elegant white-flowered evergreen shrub or small tree, of the genus Gordonia (G. Lasianthus), growing in the maritime parts of the Southern United States. Its bark is sometimes used in tanning. Also, a similar West Indian tree (Laplacea hæmatoxylon).  -- Loblolly boy, a surgeon's attendant on shipboard. Smollett.  -- Loblolly pine (Bot.), a kind of pitch pine found from Delaware southward along the coast; old field pine (Pinus Tæda). Also, P. Bahamensis, of the West Indies.  -- Loblolly tree (Bot.), a name of several West Indian trees, having more or less leathery foliage, but alike in no other respect; as Pisonia subcordata, Cordia alba, and Cupania glabra. 

LOBOSA:  An order of Rhizopoda, in which the pseudopodia are thick and irregular in form, as in the Amoeba. 

LOBSCOUSE:  A combination of meat with vegetables, bread, etc., usually stewed, sometimes baked; an olio. 

LOBSIDED:  See Lopsided. 

LOBSPOUND:  A prison. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

LOBSTER:  Any large macrurous crustacean used as food, esp. those of the genus Homarus; as the American lobster (H. Americanus), and the European lobster (H. vulgaris). The Norwegian lobster (Nephrops Norvegicus) is similar in form. All these have a pair of large unequal claws. The spiny lobsters of more southern waters, belonging to Palinurus, Panulirus, and allied genera, have no large claws. The fresh-water crayfishes are sometimes called lobsters. Lobster caterpillar (Zoöl.), the caterpillar of a European bombycid moth (Stauropus fagi); -- so called from its form. Lobster louse (Zoöl.), a copepod crustacean (Nicothoë astaci) parasitic on the gills of the European lobster. 

LOBULAR:  Like a lobule; pertaining to a lobule or lobules.  LOBULATE; LOBULATED Lob"u*late, Lob"u*la`ted, a.  Made up of, or divided into, lobules; as, a lobulated gland. 

LOBULE:  A small lobe; a subdivision of a lobe. Lobule of the ear. (Anat.) Same as Lobe of the ear. 

LOBULETTE:  A little lobule, or subdivision of a lobule. 

LOBWORM:  The lugworm. 

LOCAL:  Of or pertaining to a particular place, or to a definite region or portion of space; restricted to one place or region; as, a local custom. Gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name. Shak. Local actions (Law), actions such as must be brought in a particular county, where the cause arises; -- distinguished from transitory actions.  -- Local affection (Med.), a disease or ailment confined to a particular part or organ, and not directly affecting the system.  -- Local attraction (Magnetism), an attraction near a compass, causing its needle to deviate from its proper direction, especially on shipboard.  -- Local battery (Teleg.), the battery which actuates the recording instruments of a telegraphic station, as distinguished from the battery furnishing a current for the line.  -- Local circuit (Teleg.), the circuit of the local battery.  -- Local color. (a) (Paint.) The color which belongs to an object, and is not caused by accidental influences, as of reflection, shadow, etc. (b) (Literature) Peculiarities of the place and its inhabitants where the scene of an action or story is laid.  -- Local option, the right or obligation of determining by popular vote within certain districts, as in each county, city, or town, whether the sale of alcoholic beverages within the district shall be allowed. 

LOCAL:  A train which receives and deposits passengers or freight along the line of the road; a train for the accommodation of a certain district. [U.S.]  2. On newspaper cant, an item of news relating to the place where the paper is published. [U.S.] 

LOCALITY:  The perceptive faculty concerned with the ability to remember the relative positions of places. 

LOCALIZATION:  Act of localizing, or state of being localized. Cerebral localization (Physiol.), the localization of the control of special functions, as of sight or of the various movements of the body, in special regions of the brain. 

LOCALIZE:  To make local; to fix in, or assign to, a definite place. H. Spencer. Wordsworth. 

LOCALLY:  With respect to place; in place; as, to be locally separated or distant. 

LOCATE:  To place one's self; to take up one's residence; to settle. [Colloq.] 

LOCATION:  The marking out of the boundaries, or identifying the place or site of, a piece of land, according to the description given in an entry, plan, map, etc. Burrill. Bouvier. 

LOCATIVE:  Indicating place, or the place where, or wherein; as, a locative adjective; locative case of a noun.  -- n.  The locative case. 

LOCATOR:  One who locates, or is entitled to locate, land or a mining claim. [U.S.] 

LOCELLATE:  Divided into secondary compartments or cells, as where one cavity is separated into several smaller ones. 

LOCH:  A lake; a bay or arm of the sea. [Scot.] 

LOCH:  A kind of medicine to be taken by licking with the tongue; a lambative; a lincture.  LOCHABER AX; LOCHABER AXE Loch*a"ber ax", Loch*a"ber axe". Etym: [So called from Lochaber, in Scotland.]  A weapon of war, consisting of a pole armed with an axhead at its end, formerly used by the Scotch Highlanders. 

LOCHAGE:  An officer who commanded a company; a captain. Mitford. 

LOCHAN:  A small lake; a pond. [Scot.] A pond or lochan rather than a lake. H. Miller. 

LOCHE:  See Loach. 

LOCHIA:  The discharge from the womb and vagina which follows childbirth. 

LOCHIAL:  Of or pertaining to the lochia. 

LOCK:  A tuft of hair; a flock or small quantity of wool, hay, or other like substance; a tress or ringlet of hair. These gray locks, the pursuivants of death. Shak. 

LOCK:  To furnish with locks; also, to raise or lower (a boat) in a lock.  6. (Fencing)  To seize, as the sword arm of an antagonist, by turning the left arm around it, to disarm him. 

LOCK:  To become fast, as by means of a lock or by interlacing; as, the door locks close. When it locked none might through it pass. Spenser. To lock into, to fit or slide into; as, they lock into each other. Boyle. 

LOCKAGE:  A contrivance to fasten logs together in rafting; -- used by lumbermen. [U.S.]  LOCKED-JAW Locked"-jaw`, n.  See Lockjaw. 

LOCKEN:  of Lock. Chaucer. 

LOCKEN:  The globeflower (Trollius). 

LOCKET:  . A hospital for the treatment of venereal diseases. [Eng.] 

LOCKJAW:  A contraction of the muscles of the jaw by which its motion is suspended; a variety of tetanus. 

LOCKLESS:  Destitute of a lock. 

LOCKMAN:  A public executioner. [Scot.] 

LOCKOUT:  The closing of a factory or workshop by an employer, usually in order to bring the workmen to satisfactory terms by a suspension of wages. 

LOCKRAM:  A kind of linen cloth anciently used in England, originally imported from Brittany. Shak. 

LOCKSMITH:  An artificer whose occupation is to make or mend locks.  LOCK STEP Lock" step`  . A mode of marching by a body of men going one after another as closely as possible, in which the leg of each moves at the same time with the corresponding leg of the person before him.  LOCK STITCH Lock" stitch`  . A peculiar sort of stitch formed by the locking of two threads together, as in the work done by some sewing machines. See Stitch. 

LOCKUP:  A place where persons under arrest are temporarily locked up; a watchhouse.  LOCK-WEIR Lock"-weir`, n.  A waste weir for a canal, discharging into a lock chamber. 

LOCKY:  Having locks or tufts. [R.] Sherwood. 

LOCO:  A direction in written or printed music to return to the proper pitch after having played an octave higher. 

LOCO:  A plant (Astragalus Hornii) growing in the Southwestern United States, which is said to poison horses and cattle, first making them insane. The name is also given vaguely to several other species of the same genus. Called also loco weed.  LOCO DISEASE Loco disease. (Veter.)  A chronic nervous affection of cattle, horses, and sheep, caused by eating the loco weed and characterized by a slow, measured gait, high step, glassy eyes with defective vision, delirium, and gradual emaciation. 

LOCOMOTIVE:  A locomotive engine; a self-propelling wheel carriage, especially one which bears a steam boiler and one or more steam engines which communicate motion to the wheels and thus propel the carriage, -- used to convey goods or passengers, or to draw wagons, railroad cars, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. Consolidation locomotive, a locomotive having four pairs of connected drivers.  -- Locomotive car, a locomotive and a car combined in one vehicle; a dummy engine. [U.S.] -- Locomotive engine. Same as Locomotive, above.  -- Mogul locomotive. See Mogul.  LOCOMOTIVENESS; LOCOMOTIVITY Lo"co*mo`tive*ness, Lo`co*mo*tiv"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. locomotivité.]  The power of changing place. 

LOCOMOTOR:  Of or pertaining to movement or locomotion. Locomotor ataxia, or Progressive locomotor ataxy (Med.), a disease of the spinal cord characterized by peculiar disturbances of gait, and difficulty in coördinating voluntary movements. 

LOCULAMENT:  The cell of a pericarp in which the seed is lodged. 

LOCULAR:  Of or relating to the cell or compartment of an ovary, etc.; in composition, having cells; as trilocular. Gray. 

LOCULATE:  Divided into compartments. 

LOCULE:  A little hollow; a loculus. 

LOCULICIDAL:  Dehiscent through the middle of the back of each cell; -- said of capsules.  LOCULOSE; LOCULOUS Loc"u*lose`, Loc"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. loculosus. See Loculament.] (Bot.)  Divided by internal partitions into cells, as the pith of the pokeweed. 

LOCULUS:  One of the spaces between the septa in the Anthozoa.  2. (Bot.)  One of the compartments of a several-celled ovary; loculament.  LOCUM TENENS Lo"cum te"nens. Etym: [L., holding the place; locus place + tenens, p. pr. of tenere to hold. Cf. Lieutenant.]  A substitute or deputy; one filling an office for a time. 

LOCUS:  The line traced by a point which varies its position according to some determinate law; the surface described by a point or line that moves according to a given law. Plane locus, a locus that is a straight line, or a circle.  -- Solid locus, a locus that is one of the conic sections. 

LOCUST:  Any one of numerous species of long-winged, migratory, orthopterous insects, of the family Acrididæ, allied to the grasshoppers; esp., (Edipoda, or Pachytylus, migratoria, and Acridium perigrinum, of Southern Europe, Asia, and Africa. In the United States the related species with similar habits are usually called grasshoppers. See Grasshopper.  Note: These insects are at times so numerous in Africa and the south of Asia as to devour every green thing; and when they migrate, they fly in an immense cloud. In the United States the harvest flies are improperly called locusts. See Cicada. Locust beetle (Zoöl.), a longicorn beetle (Cyllene robiniæ), which, in the larval state, bores holes in the wood of the locust tree. Its color is brownish black, barred with yellow. Called also locust borer.  -- Locust bird (Zoöl.) the rose-colored starling or pastor of India. See Pastor.  -- Locust hunter (Zoöl.), an African bird; the beefeater.  2. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)  The locust tree. See Locust Tree (definition, note, and phrases). Locust bean (Bot.), a commercial name for the sweet pod of the carob tree. 

LOCUSTA:  The spikelet or flower cluster of grasses. Gray. 

LOCUSTELLA:  The European cricket warbler. 

LOCUSTIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the locust; -- formerly used to designate a supposed acid. 

LOCUSTING:  Swarming and devastating like locusts. [R.] Tennyson.  LOCUST TREE Lo"cust tree`. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)  A large North American tree of the genus Robinia (R. Pseudacacia), producing large slender racemes of white, fragrant, papilionaceous flowers, and often cultivated as an ornamental tree. In England it is called acacia.  Note: The name is also applied to other trees of different genera, especially to those of the genus Hymenæa, of which H. Courbaril is a lofty, spreading tree of South America; also to the carob tree (Ceratonia siliqua), a tree growing in the Mediterranean region. Honey locust tree (Bot.), a tree of the genus Gleditschia ) G. triacanthus), having pinnate leaves and strong branching thorns; -- so called from a sweet pulp found between the seeds in the pods. Called also simply honey locust.  -- Water locust tree (Bot.), a small swamp tree (Gleditschia monosperma), of the Southern United States. 

LOCUTION:  Speech or discourse; a phrase; a form or mode of expression. " Stumbling locutions." G. Eliot. I hate these figures in locution, These about phrases forced by ceremony. Marston. 

LOCUTORY:  A room for conversation; especially, a room in monasteries, where the monks were allowed to converse. 

LODDE:  The capelin. 

LODE:  A metallic vein; any regular vein or course, whether metallic or not. 

LODEMANAGE:  Pilotage. [Obs.]  LODE-SHIP Lode"-*ship`, n.  An old name for a pilot boat. 

LODESMAN:  Same as Loadsman. [Obs.] 

LODESTAR:  Same as Loadstar. 

LODESTONE:  Same as Loadstone. 

LODGE:  The space at the mouth of a level next the shaft, widened to permit wagons to pass, or ore to be deposited for hoisting; -- called also platt. Raymond.  3. A collection of objects lodged together. The Maldives, a famous lodge of islands. De Foe.  4. A family of North American Indians, or the persons who usually occupy an Indian lodge, -- as a unit of enumeration, reckoned from four to six persons; as, the tribe consists of about two hundred lodges, that is, of about a thousand individuals. Lodge gate, a park gate, or entrance gate, near the lodge. See Lodge, n., 1 (b). 

LODGED:  Lying down; -- used of beasts of the chase, as couchant is of beasts of prey. 

LODGEMENT:  See Lodgment. 

LODGER:  One who, or that which, lodges; one who occupies a hired room in another's house. 

LODGMENT:  The occupation and holding of a position, as by a besieging party; an instrument thrown up in a captured position; as, to effect a lodgment. 

LODICULE:  One of the two or three delicate membranous scales which are next to the stamens in grasses. 

LOELLINGITE:  A tin-white arsenide of iron, isomorphous with arsenopyrite. 

LOESS:  A quaternary deposit, usually consisting of a fine yellowish earth, on the banks of the Rhine and other large rivers.  LOEVEN'S LARVA Loev"en's lar"va. Etym: [Named after the Swedish zoölogist, S. F. Löven, who discovered it.] (Zoöl.)  The peculiar larva of Polygordius. See Polygordius. 

LOFFE:  To laugh. [Obs.] Shak. 

LOFT:  That which is lifted up; an elevation. Hence, especially: (a) The room or space under a roof and above the ceiling of the uppermost story. (b) A gallery or raised apartment in a church, hall, etc.; as, an organ loft. (c) A floor or room placed above another; a story. Eutychus . . . fell down from the third loft. Acts xx. 9. On loft, aloft; on high. Cf. Onloft. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOFT:  Lofty; proud. [R. & Obs.] Surrey. 

LOFTER:  An iron club used in lofting the ball; -- called also lofting iron. 

LOFTILY:  In a lofty manner or position; haughtily. 

LOFTINESS:  The state or quality of being lofty.  LOFTING IRON Loft"ing iron. (Golf)  Same as Lofter. 

LOG:  A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing 2.37 gills. W. H. Ward. 

LOG:  An apparatus for measuring the rate of a ship's motion through the water.  Note: The common log consists of the log-chip, or logship, often exclusively called the log, and the log line, the former being commonly a thin wooden quadrant of five or six inches radius, loaded with lead on the arc to make it float with the point up. It is attached to the log line by cords from each corner. This line is divided into equal spaces, called knots, each bearing the same proportion to a mile that half a minute does to an hour. The line is wound on a reel which is so held as to let it run off freely. When the log is thrown, the log-chip is kept by the water from being drawn forward, and the speed of the ship is shown by the number of knots run out in half a minute. There are improved logs, consisting of a piece of mechanism which, being towed astern, shows the distance actually gone through by the ship, by means of the revolutions of a fly, which are registered on a dial plate.  3. Hence: The record of the rate of ship's speed or of her daily progress; also, the full nautical record of a ship's cruise or voyage; a log slate; a log book.  4. A record and tabulated statement of the work done by an engine, as of a steamship, of the coal consumed, and of other items relating to the performance of machinery during a given time.  5. (Mining)  A weight or block near the free end of a hoisting rope to prevent it from being drawn through the sheave. Log board (Naut.), a board consisting of two parts shutting together like a book, with columns in which are entered the direction of the wind, course of the ship, etc., during each hour of the day and night. These entries are transferred to the log book. A folding slate is now used instead.  -- Log book, or Logbook (Naut.), a book in which is entered the daily progress of a ship at sea, as indicated by the log, with notes on the weather and incidents of the voyage; the contents of the log board. Log cabin, Log house, a cabin or house made of logs.  -- Log canoe, a canoe made by shaping and hollowing out a single log.  -- Log glass (Naut.), a small sandglass used to time the running out of the log line.  -- Log line (Naut.), a line or cord about a hundred and fifty fathoms long, fastened to the log-chip. See Note under 2d Log, n., 2.  -- Log perch (Zoöl.), an ethiostomoid fish, or darter (Percina caprodes); -- called also hogfish and rockfish.  -- Log reel (Naut.), the reel on which the log line is wound.  -- Log slate. (Naut.) See Log board (above).  -- Rough log (Naut.), a first draught of a record of the cruise or voyage.  -- Smooth log (Naut.), a clean copy of the rough log. In the case of naval vessels this copy is forwarded to the proper officer of the government.  -- To heave the log (Naut.), to cast the log-chip into the water; also, the whole process of ascertaining a vessel's speed by the log. 

LOG:  , To enter in a ship's log book; as, to log the miles run. J. F. Cooper. 

LOGAN:  A rocking or balanced stone. Gwill. 

LOGAOEDIC:  Composed of dactyls and trochees so arranged as to produce a movement like that of ordinary speech. 

LOGARITHM:  One of a class of auxiliary numbers, devised by John Napier, of Merchiston, Scotland (1550-1617), to abridge arithmetical calculations, by the use of addition and subtraction in place of multiplication and division.  Note: The relation of logarithms to common numbers is that of numbers in an arithmetical series to corresponding numbers in a geometrical series, so that sums and differences of the former indicate respectively products and quotients of the latter; thus 0 1 2 3 4 Indices or logarithms 1 10 100 1000 10,000 Numbers in geometrical progression Hence, the logarithm of any given number is the exponent of a power to which another given invariable number, called the base, must be raised in order to produce that given number. Thus, let 10 be the base, then 2 is the logarithm of 100, because 102 = 100, and 3 is the logarithm of 1,000, because 103 = 1,000. Arithmetical complement of a logarithm, the difference between a logarithm and the number ten.  -- Binary logarithms. See under Binary.  -- Common logarithms, or Brigg's logarithms, logarithms of which the base is 10; -- so called from Henry Briggs, who invented them.  -- Gauss's logarithms, tables of logarithms constructed for facilitating the operation of finding the logarithm of the sum of difference of two quantities from the logarithms of the quantities, one entry of those tables and two additions or subtractions answering the purpose of three entries of the common tables and one addition or subtraction. They were suggested by the celebrated German mathematician Karl Friedrich Gauss (died in 1855), and are of great service in many astronomical computations.  -- Hyperbolic, or Napierian, logarithms, those logarithms (devised by John Speidell, 1619) of which the base is 2.7182818; -- so called from Napier, the inventor of logarithms.  -- Logistic or Proportionallogarithms., See under Logistic.  LOGARITHMETIC; LOGARITHMETICAL Log`a*rith*met"ic, Log"a*rith*met"ic*al, a.  See Logarithmic. 

LOGARITHMETICALLY:  Logarithmically.  LOGARITHMIC; LOGARITHMICAL Log`a*rith"mic, Log`a*rith"mic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. logarithmique.]  Of or pertaining to logarithms; consisting of logarithms. Logarithmic curve (Math.), a curve which, referred to a system of rectangular coördinate axes, is such that the ordinate of any point will be the logarithm of its abscissa.  -- Logarithmic spiral, a spiral curve such that radii drawn from its pole or eye at equal angles with each other are in continual proportion. See Spiral. 

LOGARITHMICALLY:  By the use of logarithms.  LOG-CHIP Log"-chip`, n. (Naut.)  A thin, flat piece of board in the form of a quadrant of a circle attached to the log line; -- called also log-ship. See 2d Log, n., 2. 

LOGCOCK:  The pileated woodpecker. 

LOGE:  A lodge; a habitation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOGGAN:  See Logan. 

LOGGAT:  An old game in England, played by throwing pieces of wood at a stake set in the ground. [Obs.] Shak. 

LOGGE:  See Lodge. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOGGED:  Made slow and heavy in movement; water-logged. Beaconsfield. 

LOGGER:  One engaged in logging. See Log, v. i. [U.S.] Lowell. 

LOGGERHEAD:  An upright piece of round timber, in a whaleboat, over which a turn of the line is taken when it is running out too fast. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  4. (Zoöl.)  A very large marine turtle (Thalassochelys caretta, or caouana), common in the warmer parts of the Atlantic Ocean, from Brazil to Cape Cod; -- called also logger-headed turtle.  5. (Zoöl.)  An American shrike (Lanius Ludovicianus), similar to the butcher bird, but smaller. See Shrike. To be at loggerheads, To fall to loggerheads, or To go to loggerheads, to quarrel; to be at strife. L' Estrange. 

LOGGERHEADED:  Dull; stupid. Shak. A rabble of loggerheaded physicians. Urquhart. 

LOGGERHEADS:  The knapweed. 

LOGGIA:  A roofed open gallery. It differs from a veranda in being more architectural, and in forming more decidedly a part of the main edifice to which it is attached; from a porch, in being intended not for entrance but for an out-of-door sitting-room. 

LOGGING:  The business of felling trees, cutting them into logs, and transporting the logs to sawmills or to market. 

LOGICALITY:  Logicalness. 

LOGICALLY:  In a logical manner; as, to argue logically. 

LOGICALNESS:  The quality of being logical. 

LOGICIAN:  A person skilled in logic. Bacon. Each fierce logician still expelling Locke. Pope. 

LOGICS:  See Logic.  LOGISTIC; LOGISTICAL Lo*gis"tic, Lo*gis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. logistique.]  1. Logical. [Obs.] Berkeley.  2. (Math.)  Sexagesimal, or made on the scale of 60; as, logistic, or sexagesimal, arithmetic. Logistic, or Proportional, logarithms, certain logarithmic numbers used to shorten the calculation of the fourth term of a proportion of which one of the terms is a given constant quantity, commonly one hour, while the other terms are expressed in minutes and seconds; -- not now used. 

LOGISTICS:  That branch of the military art which embraces the details of moving and supplying armies. The meaning of the word is by some writers extended to include strategy. H. L. Scott.  2. (Math.)  A system of arithmetic, in which numbers are expressed in a scale of 60; logistic arithmetic. 

LOGMAN:  A man who carries logs. Shak. 

LOGODAEDALY:  Verbal legerdemain; a playing with words. [R.] Coleridge. 

LOGOGRAM:  A word letter; a phonogram, that, for the sake of brevity, represents a word; as, |, i. e., t, for it. Cf. Grammalogue. 

LOGOGRAPHER:  Of or pertaining to logography. 

LOGOGRIPH:  A sort of riddle in which it is required to discover a chosen word from various combinations of its letters, or of some of its letters, which form other words; -- thus, to discover the chosen word chatter form cat, hat, rat, hate, rate, etc. B. Jonson. 

LOGOMACHIST:  One who contends about words. 

LOGOMETRIC:  Serving to measure or ascertain chemical equivalents; stoichiometric. [R.] 

LOGOTHETE:  An accountant; under Constantine, an officer of the empire; a receiver of revenue; an administrator of a department. 

LOGOTYPE:  A single type, containing two or more letters; as, æ, Æ, fi, fl, ffl, etc. ; -- called also ligature. 

LOGROLL:  To engage in logrolling; to accomplish by logrolling. [Political cant, U. S.] 

LOGROLLER:  One who engages in logrolling. [Political cant, U. S.] The jobbers and logrollers will all be against it. The. Nation. 

LOGROLLING:  The act or process of rolling logs from the place where they were felled to the stream which floats them to the sawmill or to market. In this labor neighboring camps of loggers combine to assist each other in turn. Longfellow. [U.S.]  2. Hence: A combining to assist another in consideration of receiving assistance in return; -- sometimes used of a disreputable mode of accomplishing political schemes or ends. [Cant, U.S.]  LOG-SHIP Log"-ship, n. (Naut.)  A part of the log. See Log-chip, and 2d Log, n., 2. 

LOGWOOD:  The heartwood of a tree (Hæmatoxylon Campechianum), a native of South America, It is a red, heavy wood, containing a crystalline substance called hæmatoxylin, and is used largely in dyeing. An extract from this wood is used in medicine as an astringent. Also called Campeachy wood, and bloodwood.  -LOGY -lo*gy. Etym: [Gr. Logic.]  A combining form denoting a discourse, treatise, doctrine, theory, science; as, theology, geology, biology, mineralogy. 

LOGY:  Heavy or dull in respect to motion or thought; as, a logy horse. [U.S.] Porcupines are . . . logy, sluggish creatures. C. H. Merriam. 

LOHOCK:  See Loch, a medicine. 

LOIMIC:  Of or pertaining to the plague or contagious disorders. 

LOIN:  That part of a human being or quadruped, which extends on either side of the spinal column between the hip bone and the false ribs. In human beings the loins are also called the reins. See Illust. of Beef. 

LOIR:  A large European dormouse (Myoxus glis). 

LOITERINGLY:  In a loitering manner.  LOK; LOKI Lok, Lo"ki, n. Etym: [Icel. Loki, perh. akin to lokka, locka to allure, entice.] (Scandinavian Myth.)  The evil deity, the author of all calamities and mischief, answering to the African of the Persians. 

LOKAO:  A green vegetable dye imported from China. 

LOKE:  A private path or road; also, the wicket or hatch of a door. [Prov. Eng.] 

LOKORYS:  Liquorice. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOLIGO:  A genus of cephalopods, including numerous species of squids, common on the coasts of America and Europe. They are much used for fish bait. 

LOLL:  To let hang from the mouth, as the tongue. Fierce tigers couched around and lolled their fawning tongues. Dryden. 

LOLLARD:  The doctrines or principles of the Lollards. 

LOLLINGLY:  In a lolling manner. Buckle. 

LOLLIPOP:  A kind of sugar confection which dissolves easily in the mouth. Thackeray. 

LOLLOP:  To move heavily; to lounge or idle; to loll. [Law.] Charles Reade. 

LOMA:  A lobe; a membranous fringe or flap. 

LOMATINOUS:  Furnished with lobes or flaps. 

LOMBARD:  Of or pertaining to Lombardy, or the inhabitants of Lombardy. 

LOMBARD:  A form of cannon formerly in use. Prescott. Lombard Street, the principal street in London for banks and the offices of note brokers; hence, the money market and interest of London. 

LOMBARDEER:  A pawnbroker. [Obs.] Howell.  LOMBARD-HOUSE; LOMBAR-HOUSE Lom"bard-house, Lom"bar-house`,Etym: [F. or D. lombard. See Lombard, n.]  1. A bank or a pawnbroker's shop.  2. A public institution for lending money to the poor at a moderate interest, upon articles deposited and pledged; -- called also mont de piété. 

LOMBARDIC:  Of or pertaining to Lombardy of the Lombards. Lombardic alphabet, the ancient alphabet derived from the Roman, and employed in the manuscript of Italy.  -- Lombardic architecture, the debased Roman style of architecture as found in parts of Northern Italy. F. G. Lee. Lombardy poplar. (Bot.) See Poplar. 

LOMENT:  An elongated pod, consisting, like the legume, of two valves, but divided transversely into small cells, each containing a single seed. 

LOMENTACEOUS:  Of the nature of a loment; having fruits like loments. 

LOMONITE:  Same as Laumontite. 

LOMPISH:  Lumpish. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LOND:  Land. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LONDON:  The capital city of England. London paste (Med.), a paste made of caustic soda and unslacked lime; -- used as a caustic to destroy tumors and other morbid enlargements.  -- London pride. (Bot.) (a) A garden name for Saxifraga umbrosa, a hardy perennial herbaceous plant, a native of high lands in Great Britain. (b) A name anciently given to the Sweet William. Dr. Prior.  -- London rocket (Bot.), a cruciferous plant (Sisymbrium Irio) which sprung up in London abundantly on the ruins of the great fire of 1667. 

LONDONER:  A native or inhabitant of London. Shak. 

LONDONISM:  A characteristic of Londoners; a mode of speaking peculiar to London. 

LONDONIZE:  To impart to (one) a manner or character like that which distinguishes Londoners. 

LONDONIZE:  To imitate the manner of the people of London.  LONDON SMOKE Lon"don smoke.  A neutral tint given to spectacles, shade glasses for optical instruments, etc., which reduces the intensity without materially changing the color of the transmitted light.  LONDON TUFT London tuft. (Bot.)  The Sweet William (Dianthus barbatus). 

LONE:  A lane. See Loanin. [Prov. Eng.] 

LONENESS:  Solitude; seclusion. [Obs.] Donne. 

LONESOME:  Texas; -- a nickname alluding to the single star on its coat of arms, being the device used on its flag and seal when it was a republic. 

LONG:  Prolonged, or relatively more prolonged, in utterance; -- said of vowels and syllables. See Short, a., 13, and Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 22, 30.  Note: Long is used as a prefix in a large number of compound adjectives which are mostly of obvious meaning; as, long-armed, long- beaked, long-haired, long-horned, long-necked, long-sleeved, long- tailed, long- worded, etc. In the long run, in the whole course of things taken together; in the ultimate result; eventually.  -- Long clam (Zoöl.), the common clam (Mya arenaria) of the Northern United States and Canada; -- called also soft-shell clam and long- neck clam. See Mya.  -- Long cloth, a kind of cotton cloth of superior quality.  -- Long clothes, clothes worn by a young infant, extending below the feet.  -- Long division. (Math.) See Division.  -- Long dozen, one more than a dozen; thirteen.  -- Long home, the grave.  -- Long measure, Long mater. See under Measure, Meter.  -- Long Parliament (Eng. Hist.), the Parliament which assembled Nov. 3, 1640, and was dissolved by Cromwell, April 20, 1653.  -- Long price, the full retail price.  -- Long purple (Bot.), a plant with purple flowers, supposed to be the Orchis mascula. Dr. Prior.  -- Long suit (Whist), a suit of which one holds originally more than three cards. R. A. Proctor.  -- Long tom. (a) A pivot gun of great length and range, on the dock of a vessel. (b) A long trough for washing auriferous earth. [Western U.S.] (c) (Zoöl.) The long-tailed titmouse.  -- Long wall (Coal Mining), a working in which the whole seam is removed and the roof allowed to fall in, as the work progresses, except where passages are needed.  -- Of long, a long time. [Obs.] Fairfax.  -- To be, or go, long of the market, To be on the long side of the market, etc. (Stock Exchange), to hold stock for a rise in price, or to have a contract under which one can demand stock on or before a certain day at a stipulated price; -- opposed to short in such phrases as, to be short of stock, to sell short, etc. [Cant] See Short.  -- To have a long head, to have a farseeing or sagacious mind. 

LONG:  A note formerly used in music, one half the length of a large, twice that of a breve.  2. (Phonetics)  A long sound, syllable, or vowel.  3. The longest dimension; the greatest extent; -- in the phrase, the long and the short of it, that is, the sum and substance of it. Addison. 

LONG:  By means of; by the fault of; because of. [Obs.] See Along of, under 3d Along. 

LONGAN:  A pulpy fruit related to the litchi, and produced by an evergreen East Indian tree (Nephelium Longan). 

LONGANIMITY:  Disposition to bear injuries patiently; forbearance; patience. Jer. Taylor.  LONG-ARMED Long"-armed`, a.  Having long arms; as, the long-armed ape or gibbon. 

LONGBEAK:  The American redbellied snipe (Macrorhamphus scolopaceus); -- called also long-billed dowitcher. 

LONGBOAT:  Formerly, the largest boat carried by a merchant vessel, corresponding to the launch of a naval vessel. 

LONGBOW:  The ordinary bow, not mounted on a stock; -- so called in distinction from the crossbow when both were used as weapons of war. Also, sometimes, such a bow of about the height of a man, as distinguished from a much shorter one. To draw the longbow, to tell large stories.  LONG-BREATHED Long"-breathed`, a.  Having the power of retaining the breath for a long time; long- winded.  LONG-DRAWN Long"-drawn`, a.  Extended to a great length. The cicadæ hushed their long-drawn, ear-splitting strains. G. W. Cable. 

LONGE:  Same as 4th Lunge. 

LONGER:  One who longs for anything. 

LONGEVAL:  Long-loved; longevous.[R.] Pope. 

LONGEVITY:  Long duration of life; length of life. The instances of longevity are chiefly amongst the abstemious. Arbuthnot. 

LONGEVOUS:  Living a long time; of great age. Sir T. Browne. 

LONGHAND:  The written characters used in the common method of writing; -- opposed to shorthand. 

LONGHEADED:  Having unusual foresight or sagacity.  -- Long"-head`ed*ness, n. 

LONGHORN:  A long-horned animal, as a cow, goat, or beetle. See Long- horned.  LONG-HORNED Long"-horned`, a. (Zoöl.) [Obs.]  Having a long horn or horns; as, a long-horned goat, or cow; having long antennæ, as certain beetles (Longicornia). 

LONGICORN:  Long-horned; pertaining to the Longicornia.  -- n.  One of the Longicornia. 

LONGICORNIA:  A division of beetles, including a large number of species, in which the antennæ are very long. Most of them, while in the larval state, bore into the wood or beneath the bark of trees, and some species are very destructive to fruit and shade trees. See Apple borer, under Apple, and Locust beetle, under Locust. 

LONGILATERAL:  Having long sides especially, having the form of a long parallelogram. Nineveh . . . was of a longilateral figure, ninety-five furlongs broad, and a hundred and fifty long. Sir T. Browne. 

LONGILOQUENCE:  Long-windedness. American longiloquence in oratory. Fitzed. Hall. 

LONGIMANOUS:  Having long hands. Sir T. Browne. 

LONGIMETRY:  The art or practice of measuring distances or lengths. Cheyne. 

LONGING:  An eager desire; a craving; a morbid appetite; an earnest wish; an aspiration. Put on my crown; I have immortal longings in me. Shak. 

LONGINGLY:  With longing. Dryden. 

LONGINQUITY:  Greatness of distance; remoteness. [R.] Barrow. 

LONGIPALP:  One of a tribe of beetles, having long maxillary palpi. 

LONGIPENNATE:  Having long wings, or quills. 

LONGIPENNES:  A group of longwinged sea birds, including the gulls, petrels, etc. 

LONGIPENNINE:  Of or pertaining to the Longipennes; longipennate. 

LONGIROSTER:  One of the Longirostres. 

LONGIROSTRAL:  Having a long bill; of or pertaining to the Longirostres. 

LONGIROSTRES:  A group of birds characterized by having long slender bills, as the sandpipers, curlews, and ibises. It is now regarded as an artificial division. 

LONGISH:  Somewhat long; moderately long. 

LONGITUDE:  The arc or portion of the equator intersected between the meridian of a given place and the meridian of some other place from which longitude is reckoned, as from Greenwich, England, or sometimes from the capital of a country, as from Washington or Paris. The longitude of a place is expressed either in degrees or in time; as, that of New York is 74º or 4 h. 56 min. west of Greenwich.  3. (Astron.)  The distance in degrees, reckoned from the vernal equinox, on the ecliptic, to a circle at right angles to the ecliptic passing through the heavenly body whose longitude is designated; as, the longitude of Capella is 79º. Geocentric longitude (Astron.), the longitude of a heavenly body as seen from the earth.  -- Heliocentric longitude, the longitude of a heavenly body, as seen from the sun's center.  -- Longitude stars, certain stars whose position is known, and the data in regard to which are used in observations for finding the longitude, as by lunar distances. 

LONGITUDINAL:  A railway sleeper lying parallel with the rail. 

LONGITUDINALLY:  In the direction of length. 

LONGLEGS:  A daddy longlegs.  LONG-LIVED Long"-lived`, a.  Having a long life; having constitutional peculiarities which make long life probable; lasting long; as, a long-lived tree; they are a longlived family; long-lived prejudices. 

LONGLY:  The sparingly fossiliferous conglomerates, grits, schists, and states of Great Britain, which lie at the base of the Cambrian system; -- so called, because typically developed in the Longmynd Hills, Shropshire. 

LONGNESS:  Length. 

LONGNOSE:  The European garfish.  LONG PRIMER Long" prim"er. (Print.)  A kind of type, in size between small pica and bourgeois.  Note: long primer. 

LONGSHANKS:  The stilt. 

LONGSHORE:  Belonging to the seashore or a seaport; along and on the shore. "Longshore thieves." R. Browning. 

LONGSHOREMAN:  One of a class of laborers employed about the wharves of a seaport, especially in loading and unloading vessels.  LONG-SIGHT Long"-sight, n.  Long-sightedness Good.  LONG-SIGHTED Long"-sight`ed, a.  1. Able to see objects at a great distance; hence, having great foresight; sagacious; farseeing.  2. Able to see objects distinctly at a distance, but not close at hand; hypermetropic.  LONG-SIGHTEDNESS Long"-sight`ed*ness, n.  1. The state or condition of being long-sighted; hence, sagacity; shrewdness.  2. (Med.)  See Hypermetropia. 

LONGSOME:  Extended in length; tiresome. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. Prior.  -- Long"some*ness, n. [Obs.] Fuller. 

LONGSPUN:  Spun out, or extended, to great length; hence, long-winded; tedious. The longspun allegories fulsome grow, While the dull moral lies too plain below. Addison. 

LONGSPUR:  Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genus Calcarius (or Plectrophanes), and allied genera. The Lapland longspur (C. Lapponicus), the chestnut-colored longspur (C. ornatus), and other species, inhabit the United States.  LONG-STOP Long"-stop`, n. (Cricket)  One who is set to stop balls which pass the wicket keeper.  LONG-SUFFERANCE Long"-suf`fer*ance, n.  Forbearance to punish or resent.  LONG-SUFFERING Long"-suf`fer*ing, n.  Bearing injuries or provocation for a long time; patient; not easily provoked. The Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth. Ex. xxxiv. 6.  LONG-SUFFERING Long"-suf`fer*ing, n.  Long patience of offense. Despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long- suffering Rom. ii. 4. 

LONGTAIL:  An animal, particularly a log, having an uncut tail. Cf. Curtail. Dog.  Note: A longtail was a gentleman's dog, or the dog of one qualified to bunt, other dogs being required to have their tails cut. Cut and longtail, all, gentlefolks and others, as they might come. Shak.  LONG-TONGUE Long"-tongue`, n. (Zoöl.)  The wryneck.  LONG-TONGUED Long"-tongued`, a.  1. Having a long tongue.  2. Talkative; babbling; loquacious. Shak. 

LONGULITE:  A kind of crystallite having a (slender) acicular form.  LONG-WAISTED Long"-waist`ed, a.  1. Having a long waist; long from the armpits to the armpits to the bottom of the waist; -- said of persons.  2. Long from the part about the neck or shoulder, or from the armpits, to the bottom of the weist, or to the skirt; -- said of garments; as, a long-waisted coat. 

LONGWAYS:  Lengthwise. Addison.  LONG-WINDED Long"-wind"ed, a.  Long-breathed; hence, tediously long in speaking; consuming much time; as, a long-winded talker.  -- Long"-wind"ed*ness, n. A tedious, long-winded harangue. South. 

LONGWISE:  Lengthwise. 

LOO:  To beat in the game of loo by winning every trick. [Written also lu.] Goldsmith. 

LOOB:  The clay or slimes washed from tin ore in dressing. 

LOOBILY:  Loobylike; awkward. Fuller. 

LOOBILY:  Awkwardly. L'Estrange. 

LOOBY:  An awkward, clumsy fellow; a lubber. Swift. 

LOOCH:  See 2d Loch. 

LOOF:  The spongelike fibers of the fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Luffa Ægyptiaca); called also vegetable sponge. 

LOOF:  See Luff. 

LOOKDOWN:  See Moonfish (b). 

LOOKER:  One who looks. Looker-on, a spectator; one that looks on, but has no agency or part in an affair. Did not this fatal war affront thy coast, Yet sattest thou an idle looker-on Fairfax. 

LOOKING:  Having a certain look or appearance; -- often compounded with adjectives; as, good-looking, grand-looking, etc. 

LOOKING:  A mirror made of glass on which has been placed a backing of some reflecting substance, as quicksilver. There is none so homely but loves a looking-glass. South. 

LOOL:  A vessel used to receive the washings of ores of metals. 

LOOM:  See Loon, the bird. 

LOOM:  That part of an oar which is near the grip or handle and inboard from the rowlock. Totten. 

LOOM:  The state of looming; esp., an unnatural and indistinct appearance of elevation or enlargement of anything, as of land or of a ship, seen by one at sea.  LOOM-GALE Loom"-gale`, n.  A gentle gale of wind. 

LOOMING:  The indistinct and magnified appearance of objects seen in particular states of the atmosphere. See Mirage. 

LOON:  A sorry fellow; a worthless person; a rogue. 

LOON:  Any one of several aquatic, wed-footed, northern birds of the genus Urinator (formerly Colymbus), noted for their expertness in diving and swimming under water. The common loon, or great northern diver (Urinator imber, or Colymbus torquatus), and the red-throated loon or diver (U. septentrionalis), are the best known species. See Diver. 

LOONY:  See Luny. 

LOOP:  A mass of iron in a pasty condition gathered into a ball for the tilt hammer or rolls. [Written also loup.] 

LOOP:  A wire forming part of a main circuit and returning to the point from which it starts.  5. (Acoustics)  The portion of a vibrating string, air column, etc., between two nodes; -- called also ventral segment. Loop knot, a single knot tied in a doubled cord, etc. so as to leave a loop beyond the knot. See Illust. of Knot. 

LOOP:  To make a loop of or in; to fasten with a loop or loops; -- often with up; as, to loop a string; to loop up a curtain. 

LOOPER:  The larva of any species of geometrid moths. See Geometrid. 

LOOPHOLE:  A small opening, as in the walls of fortification, or in the bulkhead of a ship, through which small arms or other weapons may be discharged at an enemy.  2. A hole or aperture that gives a passage, or the means of escape or evasion. 

LOOPHOLED:  Provided with loopholes. 

LOOPIE:  Deceitful; cunning; sly. [Scot.] 

LOOPING:  The running together of the matter of an ore into a mass, when the ore is only heated for calcination. 

LOOPING:  of Loop. Looping snail (Zoöl.), any species of land snail of the genus Truncatella; -- so called because it creeps like the measuring worms. 

LOOPLIGHT:  A small narrow opening or window in a tower or fortified wall; a loophole. 

LOORD:  A dull, stupid fellow; a drone. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LOOS:  Praise; fame; reputation. [Obs.] Spenser. Good conscience and good loos. Chaucer. 

LOOSE:  To set sail. [Obs.] Acts xiii. 13. 

LOOSELY:  In a loose manner. 

LOOSEN:  To become loose; to become less tight, firm, or compact. S. Sharp. 

LOOSENER:  One who, or that which, loosens. 

LOOSENESS:  The state, condition, or quality, of being loose; as, the looseness of a cord; looseness of style; looseness of morals or of principles. 

LOOSISH:  Somewhat loose. 

LOOT:  To plunder; to carry off as plunder or a prize lawfully obtained by war. Looting parties . . . ransacking the houses. L.O 

LOOTER:  A plunderer. 

LOOVER:  See Louver. 

LOP:  A flea.[Obs.] Cleveland. 

LOP:  That which is lopped from anything, as branches from a tree. Shak. Mortimer. 

LOP:  To hang downward; to be pendent; to lean to one side. 

LOP:  To let hang down; as, to lop the head. 

LOP:  Hanging down; as, lop ears; -- used also in compound adjectives; as, lopeared; lopsided. 

LOPE:  of Leap. [Obs.] And, laughing, lope into a tree. Spenser. 

LOPEARED:  Having ears which lop or hang down. 

LOPEMAN:  Leaper; ropedancer. [Obs.] 

LOPER:  A swivel at one end of a ropewalk, used in laying the strands. 

LOPHINE:  A nitrogenous organic base obtained by the oxidation of amarine, and regarded as a derivative of benzoic aldehyde. It is obtained in long white crystalline tufts, -- whence its name. 

LOPHIOMYS:  A very singular rodent (Lophiomys Imhausi) of Northeastern Africa. It is the only known representative of a special family (Lophiomyidæ), remarkable for the structure of the skull. It has handlike feet, and the hair is peculiar in structure and arrangement. 

LOPHOBRANCH:  Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii.  -- n.  One of the Lophobranchii. 

LOPHOBRANCHIATE:  Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii. 

LOPHOBRANCHII:  An order of teleostean fishes, having the gills arranged in tufts on the branchial arches, as the Hippocampus and pipefishes. 

LOPHOPHORE:  A disk which surrounds the mouth and bears the tentacles of the Bryozoa. See Phylactolemata. 

LOPHOPODA:  Same as Phylactolemata. 

LOPHOSTEON:  The central keel-bearing part of the sternum in birds. 

LOPPARD:  A tree, the top of which has been lopped off. [Eng.] 

LOPPER:  One who lops or cuts off. 

LOPPER:  To turn sour and coagulate from too long standing, as milk. 

LOPPING:  A cutting off, as of branches; that which is cut off; leavings. The loppings made from that stock whilst it stood. Burke. 

LOPPY:  Somewhat lop; inclined to lop. 

LOPSEED:  A perennial herb (Phryma Leptostachya), having slender seedlike fruits. 

LOQUACIOUSLY:  In a loquacious manner. 

LOQUACIOUSNESS:  Loquacity. 

LOQUACITY:  The habit or practice of talking continually or excessively; inclination to talk too much; talkativeness; garrulity. Too great loquacity and too great taciturnity by fits. Arbuthnot. 

LOQUAT:  The fruit of the Japanese medlar (Photinia Japonica). It is as large as a small plum, but grows in clusters, and contains four or five large seeds. Also, the tree itself. 

LORAL:  Of or pertaining to the lores. 

LORATE:  Having the form of a thong or strap; ligulate. 

LORCHA:  A kind of light vessel used on the coast of China, having the hull built on a European model, and the rigging like that of a Chinese junk. Admiral Foote. 

LORD:  A hump-backed person; -- so called sportively. [Eng.] Richardson (Dict.). 

LORD:  One of whom a fee or estate is held; the male owner of feudal land; as, the lord of the soil; the lord of the manor.  6. The Supreme Being; Jehovah.  Note: When Lord, in the Old Testament, is printed in small capitals, it is usually equivalent to Jehovah, and might, with more propriety, be so rendered.  7. The Savior; Jesus Christ. House of Lords, one of the constituent parts of the British Parliament, consisting of the lords spiritual and temporal.  -- Lord high chancellor, Lord high constable, etc. See Chancellor, Constable, etc.  -- Lord justice clerk, the second in rank of the two highest judges of the Supreme Court of Scotland.  -- Lord justice general, or Lord president, the highest in rank of the judges of the Supreme Court of Scotland.  -- Lord keeper, an ancient officer of the English crown, who had the custody of the king's great seal, with authority to affix it to public documents. The office is now merged in that of the chancellor.  -- Lord lieutenant, a representative of British royalty: the lord lieutenant of Ireland being the representative of royalty there, and exercising supreme administrative authority; the lord lieutenant of a county being a deputy to manage its military concerns, and also to nominate to the chancellor the justices of the peace for that county.  -- Lord of misrule, the master of the revels at Christmas in a nobleman's or other great house. Eng. Cyc.  -- Lords spiritual, the archbishops and bishops who have seats in the House of Lords.  -- Lords temporal, the peers of England; also, sixteen representative peers of Scotland, and twenty-eight representatives of the Irish peerage.  -- Our lord, Jesus Christ; the Savior.  -- The Lord's Day, Sunday; the Christian Sabbath, on which the Lord Jesus rose from the dead.  -- The Lord's Prayer, the prayer which Jesus taught his disciples. Matt. vi. 9-13.  -- The Lord's Supper. (a) The paschal supper partaken of by Jesus the night before his crucifixion. (b) The sacrament of the eucharist; the holy communion.  -- The Lord's Table. (a) The altar or table from which the sacrament is dispensed. (b) The sacrament itself. 

LORD:  To play the lord; to domineer; to rule with arbitrary or despotic sway; -- sometimes with over; and sometimes with it in the manner of a transitive verb. The whiles she lordeth in licentious bliss. Spenser. I see them lording it in London streets. Shak. And lorded over them whom now they serve. Milton. 

LORDKIN:  A little lord. Thackeray. 

LORDLINESS:  The state or quality of being lordly. Shak. 

LORDLING:  A little or insignificant lord. Goldsmith. 

LORDLY:  In a lordly manner. 

LORDOLATRY:  Worship of, or reverence for, a lord as such. [Jocose] But how should it be otherwise in a country where lordolatry is part of our creed Thackeray. 

LORDOSIS:  The European wake-robin (Arum maculatum), -- those with purplish spadix the lords, and those with pale spadix the ladies. Dr. Prior. 

LORE:  Lost. Neither of them she found where she them lore. Spenser. 

LORE:  Of or pertaining to the lore; -- said of certain feathers of birds, scales of reptiles, etc. 

LOREL:  A good for nothing fellow; a vagabond. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOREN:  of Lose. Chaucer. 

LORESMAN:  An instructor. [Obs.] Gower.  LORETO NUNS; LORETTO NUNS Lo*ret"o, or Lo*ret"to, nuns. [From Loreto, a city in Italy famous for its Holy House, said to be that in which Jesus lived, brought by angels from Nazareth.] (R. C. Ch.)  Members of a congregation of nuns founded by Mrs. Mary Teresa Ball, near Dublin, Ireland, in 1822, and now spread over Ireland, India, Canada, and the United States. The nuns are called also Ladies of Loreto. They are engaged in teaching girls. 

LORETTE:  In France, a name for a woman who is supported by her lovers, and devotes herself to idleness, show, and pleasure; -- so called from the church of Notre Dame de Lorette, in Paris, near which many of them resided. 

LORETTINE:  One of a order of nuns founded in 1812 at Loretto, in Kentucky. The members of the order (called also Sisters of Loretto, or Friends of Mary at the Foot of the Cross) devote themselves to the cause of education and the care of destitute orphans, their labors being chiefly confined to the Western United States. 

LORGNETTE:  An opera glass; pl.  elaborate double eyeglasses. 

LORI:  Same as Lory. 

LORICA:  A cuirass, originally of leather, afterward of plates of metal or horn sewed on linen or the like.  2. (Chem.)  Lute for protecting vessels from the fire.  3. (Zoöl.)  The protective case or shell of an infusorian or rotifer. 

LORICATE:  To cover with some protecting substance, as with lute, a crust, coating, or plates. 

LORICATE:  Covered with a shell or exterior made of plates somewhat like a coat of mail, as in the armadillo. 

LORICATE:  An animal covered with bony scales, as crocodiles among reptiles, and the pangolins among mammals. 

LORICATION:  The act of loricating; the protecting substance put on; a covering of scales or plates. 

LORIKEET:  Any one numerous species of small brush-tongued parrots or lories, found mostly in Australia, New Guinea and the adjacent islands, with some forms in the East Indies. They are arboreal in their habits and feed largely upon the honey of flowers. They belong to Trichoglossus, Loriculus, and several allied genera.  LORIMER; LORINER Lor"i*mer, Lor"i*ner, n. Etym: [OF. lormier, loremier, fr. LL. loranum bridle, L. lorum thong, the rein of a bridle.]  A maker of bits, spurs, and metal mounting for bridles and saddles; hence, a saddler. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

LORING:  Instructive discourse. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LORIOT:  The golden oriole of Europe. See Oriole. 

LORIS:  Any one of several species of small lemurs of the genus Stenops. They have long, slender limbs and large eyes, and are arboreal in their habits. The slender loris (S. gracilis), of Ceylon, in one of the best known species. [Written also lori.] 

LORN:  A small cart or wagon, as those used on the tramways in mines to carry coal or rubbish; also, a barrow or truck for shifting baggage, as at railway stations. 

LORY:  Any one of many species of small parrots of the family Trichoglossidæ, generally having the tongue papillose at the tip, and the mandibles straighter and less toothed than in common parrots. They are found in the East Indies, Australia, New Guinea, and the adjacent islands. They feed mostly on soft fruits and on the honey of flowers.  Note: The lory, or louri, of South Africa is the white-crested plantain eater or turacou. See Turacou. 

LOS:  Praise. See Loos. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOSABLE:  Such as can be lost. 

LOSANGE:  See Lozenge. 

LOSE:  To suffer loss, disadvantage, or defeat; to be worse off, esp. as the result of any kind of contest. We 'll . . . hear poor rogues Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too, Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out. Shak. 

LOSEL:  One who loses by sloth or neglect; a worthless person; a lorel. [Archaic] Spenser. One sad losel soils a name for aye. Byron. 

LOSEL:  Wasteful; slothful. 

LOSENGER:  A flatterer; a deceiver; a cozener. [Obs.] Chaucer. To a fair pair of gallows, there to end their lives with shame, as a number of such other losengers had done. Holinshed. 

LOSENGERIE:  Flattery; deceit; trickery. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOSER:  One who loses. South. 

LOSING:  Given to flattery or deceit; flattering; cozening. [Obs.] Amongst the many simoniacal that swarmed in the land, Herbert, Bishop of Thetford, must not be forgotten; nick-named Losing, that is, the Fratterer. Fuller. 

LOSING:  Causing or incurring loss; as, a losing game or business. Who strive sit out losing hands are lost. Herbert. 

LOSINGLY:  In a manner to incur loss. 

LOSS:  Killed, wounded, and captured persons, or captured property.  8. (Insurance)  Destruction or diminution of value, if brought about in a manner provided for in the insurance contract (as destruction by fire or wreck, damage by water or smoke), or the death or injury of an insured person; also, the sum paid or payable therefor; as, the losses of the company this year amount to a million of dollars. To bear a loss, to make a loss good; also, to sustain a loss without sinking under it.  -- To be at a loss, to be in a state of uncertainty.  Syn.  -- Privation; detriment; injury; damage. 

LOSSFUL:  Detrimental. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

LOSSLESS:  Free from loss. [Obs.] Milton. 

LOT:  To allot; to sort; to portion. [R.] To lot on or upon, to count or reckon upon; to expect with pleasure. [Colloq. U. S.] 

LOTE:  A large tree (Celtis australis), found in the south of Europe. It has a hard wood, and bears a cherrylike fruit. Called also nettle tree. Eng. Cyc. 

LOTE:  The European burbot. 

LOTE:  To lurk; to lie hid. [Obs.] Chaucer.  LOTH; LOTHLY; LOTHSOME Loth, a., Loth"ly, a. & adv., Loth"some (, a.,  See Loath, Loathly, etc. 

LOTHARIO:  A gay seducer of women; a libertine. 

LOTO:  See Lotto. 

LOTONG:  An East Indian monkey (Semnopithecus femoralis). 

LOTOPHAGI:  A people visited by Ulysses in his wanderings. They subsisted on the lotus. See Lotus (b), and Lotus-eater. 

LOTOS:  See Lotus. 

LOTTO:  A game of chance, played with cards, on which are inscribed numbers, and any contrivance (as a wheel containing numbered balls) for determining a set of numbers by chance. The player holding a card having on it the set of numbers drawn from the wheel takes the stakes after a certain percentage of them has been deducted for the dealer. A variety of lotto is called keno. [Often written loto.] 

LOTURE:  See Lotion. [Obs.] Holland. 

LOTUS:  An ornament much used in Egyptian architecture, generally asserted to have been suggested by the Egyptian water lily.  LOTUS-EATER; LOTOS-EATER Lo"tus-eat`er, Lo"tos-eat`er, n. (Class. Myth.)  One who ate the fruit or leaf of the lotus, and, as a consequence, gave himself up to indolence and daydreams; one of the Lotophagi. The mild-eyed melancholy Lotos-eaters. Tennyson. 

LOUCHETTES:  Goggles intended to rectify strabismus by permitting vision only directly in front. Knight. 

LOUD:  With loudness; loudly. To speak loud in public assemblies. Addison. 

LOUDFUL:  Noisy. [Obs.] Marsion. 

LOUDLY:  In a loud manner. Denham.  LOUD-MOUTHED Loud"-mouthed`, a.  Having a loud voice; talking or sounding noisily; noisily impudent. 

LOUDNESS:  The quality or state of being loud.  LOUD-VOICED Loud"-voiced`, a.  Having a loud voice; noisy; clamorous. Byron. 

LOUGH:  A loch or lake; -- so spelt in Ireland. 

LOUGH:  of Laugh. Chaucer.  LOUIS D'OR Lou"is d'or`. Etym: [F., gold louis.]  Formerly, a gold coin of France nominally worth twenty shillings sterling, but of varying value; -- first struck in 1640.  LOUIS QUATORZE Lon"is qua*torze". Etym: [F., Louis fourteenth.]  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the art or style of the times of Louis XIV. of France; as, Louis quatorze architecture. 

LOUK:  An accomplice; a "pal." [Obs.] There is no thief without a louk. Chaucer. 

LOUNGE:  To spend time lazily, whether lolling or idly sauntering; to pass time indolently; to stand, sit, or recline, in an indolent manner. We lounge over the sciences, dawdle through literature, yawn over politics. J. Hannay. 

LOUNGER:  One who lounges; ar idler. 

LOUP:  See 1st Loop.  LOUP-CERVIER Loup"-cer`vier", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Lusern.] (Zoöl.)  The Canada lynx. See Lynx.  LOUP-GAROU Loup`-ga`rou", n.; pl. Loups-garous (#). [F., fr. loup wolf + a Teutonic word akin to E. werewolf.]  A werewolf; a lycanthrope.  The superstition of the loup-garou, or werewolf, belongs to the folklore of most modern nations, and has its reflex in the story of "Little Red Riding-hood" and others. Brinton. 

LOUPING:  An enzoötic, often fatal, disease of sheep and other domestic animals, of unknown cause. It is characterized by muscular tremors and spasms, followed by more or less complete paralysis. The principal lesion is an inflammation of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord.  LOUP-LOUP Loup`-loup", n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.)  The Pomeranian or Spitz dog. 

LOUPS:  The Pawnees, a tribe of North American Indians whose principal totem was the wolf. 

LOUR:  An Asiatic sardine (Clupea Neohowii), valued for its oil. 

LOURI:  See Lory. 

LOUSE:  To clean from lice. "You sat and loused him." Swift. 

LOUSEWORT:  Any species of Pedicularis, a genus of perennial herbs. It was said to make sheep that fed on it lousy. Yellow lousewort , a plant of the genus Rhinanthus. 

LOUSILY:  In a lousy manner; in a mean, paltry manner; scurvily. [Vulgar] 

LOUSINESS:  The state or quality of being lousy. 

LOUT:  To bend; to box; to stoop. [Archaic] Chaucer. Longfellow. He fair the knight saluted, louting low. Spenser. 

LOUT:  A clownish, awkward fellow; a bumpkin. Sir P. Sidney. 

LOUT:  To treat as a lout or fool; to neglect; to disappoint. [Obs.] Shak. 

LOUTISH:  Clownish; rude; awkward. "Loutish clown." Sir P. Sidney.  -- Lout"ish*ly, adv.  -- Lout"*ish*ness, n. 

LOUTOU:  A crested black monkey (Semnopithecus maurus) of Java.  LOUVER; LOUVRE Lou"ver, Lou"vre, n. Etym: [OE. lover, OF. lover, lovier; or l'ouvert the opening, fr. overt, ouvert, p. p. of ovrir, ouvrir, to open, F. ouvrir. Cf. Overt.] (Arch.)  A small lantern. See Lantern, 2 (a) [Written also lover, loover, lovery, and luffer.] Louver boards or boarding, the sloping boards set to shed rainwater outward in openings which are to be left otherwise unfilled; as belfry windows, the openings of a louver, etc.  -- Louver work, slatted work. 

LOVABLE:  Having qualities that excite, or are fitted to excite, love; worthy of love. Elaine the fair, Elaine the lovable, Elaine, the lily maid of Astolat. Tennyson. 

LOVAGE:  An umbelliferous plant (Levisticum officinale), sometimes used in medicine as an aromatic stimulant. 

LOVE:  A climbing species of Clematis (C. Vitalba).  10. Nothing; no points scored on one side; -- used in counting score at tennis, etc. He won the match by three sets to love. The Field.  Note: Love is often used in the formation of compounds, in most of which the meaning is very obvious; as, love-cracked, love-darting, love-killing, love-linked, love-taught, etc. A labor of love, a labor undertaken on account of regard for some person, or through pleasure in the work itself, without expectation of reward.  -- Free love, the doctrine or practice of consorting with one of the opposite sex, at pleasure, without marriage. See Free love.  -- Free lover, one who avows or practices free love.  -- In love, in the act of loving; -- said esp. of the love of the sexes; as, to be in love; to fall in love.  -- Love apple (Bot.), the tomato.  -- Love bird (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small, short- tailed parrots, or parrakeets, of the genus Agapornis, and allied genera. They are mostly from Africa. Some species are often kept as cage birds, and are celebrated for the affection which they show for their mates.  -- Love broker, a person who for pay acts as agent between lovers, or as a go-between in a sexual intrigue. Shak.  -- Love charm, a charm for exciting love. Ld. Lytton.  -- Love child. an illegitimate child. Jane Austen.  -- Love day, a day formerly appointed for an amicable adjustment of differences. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Chaucer.  -- Love drink, a love potion; a philter. Chaucer.  -- Love favor, something given to be worn in token of love.  -- Love feast, a religious festival, held quarterly by some religious denominations, as the Moravians and Methodists, in imitation of the agapæ of the early Christians.  -- Love feat, the gallant act of a lover. Shak.  -- Love game, a game, as in tennis, in which the vanquished person or party does not score a point.  -- Love grass. Etym: [G. liebesgras.] (Bot.) Any grass of the genus Eragrostis.  -- Love-in-a-mist. (Bot.) (a) An herb of the Buttercup family (Nigella Damascena) having the flowers hidden in a maze of finely cut bracts. (b) The West Indian Passiflora foetida, which has similar bracts.  -- Love-in-idleness (Bot.), a kind of violet; the small pansy. A little western flower, Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound; And maidens call it love-in-idleness. Shak. -- Love juice, juice of a plant supposed to produce love. Shak.  -- Love knot, a knot or bow, as of ribbon; -- so called from being used as a token of love, or as a pledge of mutual affection. Milman.  -- Love lass, a sweetheart.  -- Love letter, a letter of courtship. Shak.  -- Love-lies-bleeding (Bot.), a species of amaranth (Amarantus melancholicus).  -- Love match, a marriage brought about by love alone.  -- Love potion, a compounded draught intended to excite love, or venereal desire.  -- Love rites, sexual intercourse. Pope -- Love scene, an exhibition of love, as between lovers on the stage.  -- Love suit, courtship. Shak.  -- Of all loves, for the sake of all love; by all means. [Obs.] "Mrs. Arden desired him of all loves to come back again." Holinshed.  -- The god of love, or Love god, Cupid.  -- To make love to, to express affection for; to woo. "If you will marry, make your loves to me." Shak.  -- To play for love, to play a game, as at cards, without stakes. "A game at piquet for love." Lamb.  Syn.  -- Affection; friendship; kindness; tenderness; fondness; delight. 

LOVE:  To have the feeling of love; to be in love. 

LOVEABLE:  See Lovable.  LOVE-DRURY Love"-*dru`ry, n. Etym: [Love + OF. druerie. Cf. Druery.]  Affection. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOVEE:  One who is loved. [Humorous] "The lover and lovee." Richardson. 

LOVEFUL:  Full of love. [Obs.] Sylvester. 

LOVELILY:  In manner to excite love; amiably. [R.] Otway. 

LOVELINESS:  The state or quality of being lovely. If there is such a native loveliness in the sex as to make them victorious when in the wrong, how resistless their power when they are on the side of truth! Spectator. 

LOVELOCK:  A long lock of hair hanging prominently by itself; an earlock; -- worn by men of fashion in the reigns of Elizabeth and James I. Burton. A long lovelock and long hair he wore. Sir W. Scott. 

LOVELORN:  Forsaken by one's love. The lovelorn nightingale. Milton. 

LOVELY:  In a manner to please, or to excite love. [Obs. or R.] Tyndale.  LOVE-MAKING Love"-mak`ing, n.  Courtship. Bacon. 

LOVEMONGER:  One who deals in affairs of love.[Obs.] Shak. 

LOVER:  See Louver. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

LOVERWISE:  As lovers do. As they sat down here loverwise. W. D. Howells.  LOVE-SICK Love"-sick`, a.  1. Languishing with love or amorous desire; as, a love-sick maid. To the dear mistress of my love-sick mind. Dryden.  2. Originating in, or expressive of, languishing love. Where nightingales their love-sick ditty sing. Dryden.  LOVE-SICKNESS Love"-sick`ness, n.  The state of being love-sick. 

LOVESOME:  Lovely. [Obs.] 

LOVING:  A large ornamental drinking vessel having two or more handles, intended to pass from hand to hand, as at a banquet.  LOVING-KINDNESS Lov"ing-kind"ness, n.  Tender regard; mercy; favor. Ps. lxxxix. 33. 

LOVINGLY:  With love; affectionately. 

LOVINGNESS:  Affection; kind regard. The only two bands of good will, loveliness and lovingness. Sir. P. Sidney. 

LOVYER:  A lover. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOW:  , strong imp. of Laugh. Chaucer. 

LOW:  To make the calling sound of cows and other bovine animals; to moo. The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the lea. Gray. 

LOW:  The calling sound ordinarily made by cows and other bovine animals. Talking voices and the law of herds. Wordsworth. 

LOW:  A hill; a mound; a grave. [Obs. except in place names.] Skeat. 

LOW:  Fire; a flame; a light. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 

LOW:  To burn; to blaze. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Burns. 

LOW:  Depressed in the scale of sounds; grave; as, a low pitch; a low note.  8. (Phon.)  Made, as a vowel, with a low position of part of the tongue in relation to the palate; as, . See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 5, 10, 11.  9. Near, or not very distant from, the equator; as, in the low northern latitudes.  10. Numerically small; as, a low number.  11. Wanting strength or animation; depressed; dejected; as, low spirits; low in spirits.  12. Depressed in condition; humble in rank; as, men of low condition; the lower classes. Why but to keep ye low and ignorant Milton.  13. Mean; vulgar; base; dishonorable; as, a person of low mind; a low trick or stratagem.  14. Not elevated or sublime; not exalted or diction; as, a low comparison. In comparison of these divine writers, the noblest wits of the heathen world are low and dull. Felton.  15. Submissive; humble. "Low reverence." Milton.  16. Deficient in vital energy; feeble; weak; as, a low pulse; made low by sickness.  17. Moderate; not intense; not inflammatory; as, low heat; a low temperature; a low fever.  18. Smaller than is reasonable or probable; as, a low estimate.  19. Not rich, high seasoned, or nourishing; plain; simple; as, a low diet.  Note: Low is often used in the formation of compounds which require no special explanation; as, low-arched, low- browed, low-crowned, low-heeled, low-lying, low-priced, low-roofed, low-toned, low-voiced, and the like. Low Church. See High Church, under High.  -- Low Countries, the Netherlands.  -- Low German, Low Latin, etc. See under German, Latin, etc.  -- Low life, humble life.  -- Low milling, a process of making flour from grain by a single grinding and by siftings.  -- Low relief. See Bas-relief.  -- Low side window (Arch.), a peculiar form of window common in mediæval churches, and of uncertain use. Windows of this sort are narrow, near the ground, and out of the line of the windows, and in many different situations in the building.  -- Low spirits, despondency.  -- Low steam, steam having a low pressure.  -- Low steel, steel which contains only a small proportion of carbon, and can not be hardened greatly by sudden cooling.  -- Low Sunday, the Sunday next after Easter; -- popularly so called.  -- Low tide, the farthest ebb of the tide; the tide at its lowest point; low water.  -- Low water. (a) The lowest point of the ebb tide; a low stage of the in a river, lake, etc. (b) (Steam Boiler) The condition of an insufficient quantity of water in the boiler.  -- Low water alarm or indicator (Steam Boiler), a contrivance of various forms attached to a boiler for giving warning when the water is low.  -- Low water mark, that part of the shore to which the waters recede when the tide is the lowest. Bouvier.  -- Low wine, a liquor containing about 20 percent of alcohol, produced by the first distillation of wash; the first run of the still; -- often in the plural. 

LOW:  The lowest trump, usually the deuce; the lowest trump dealt or drawn. 

LOW:  In a path near the equator, so that the declination is small, or near the horizon, so that the altitude is small; -- said of the heavenly bodies with reference to the diurnal revolution; as, the moon runs low, that is, is comparatively near the horizon when on or near the meridian. 

LOW:  To depress; to lower. [Obs.] Swift. 

LOWBELL:  To frighten, as with a lowbell. 

LOWBORN:  Born in a low condition or rank; -- opposed to highborn. 

LOWBOY:  A chest of drawers not more than four feet high; -- applied commonly to the lower half of a tallboy from which the upper half has been removed. [U. S.] 

LOWBRED:  Bred, or like one bred, in a low condition of life; characteristic or indicative of such breeding; rude; impolite; vulgar; as, a lowbred fellow; a lowbred remark.  LOW-CHURCH Low"-church`, a.  Not placing a high estimate on ecclesiastical organizations or forms; -- applied especially to Episcopalians, and opposed to high- church. See High Church, under High.  LOW-CHURCHISM Low"-church`ism, n.  The principles of the low-church party.  LOW-CHURCHMAN Low"-church`man, n.; pl. -men (.  One who holds low-church principles.  LOW-CHURCHMANSHIP Low"-church`man*ship, n.  The state of being a low-churchman. 

LOWER:  Compar. of Low, a. 

LOWER:  To fall; to sink; to grow less; to diminish; to decrease; as, the river lowered as rapidly as it rose. 

LOWER:  Pertaining to, or kept in, the lower case; -- used to denote the small letters, in distinction from capitals and small capitals. See the Note under 1st Case, n., 3. 

LOWERING:  Dark and threatening; gloomy; sullen; as, lowering clouds or sky. 

LOWERINGLY:  In a lowering manner; with cloudiness or threatening gloom. 

LOWERMOST:  Lowest. 

LOWERY:  Cloudy; gloomy; lowering; as, a lowery sky; lowery weather.  LOWGH; LOWH Lowgh, Lowh, obs.  strong imp. of Laugh. Etym: [Cf. 1st Low and 2d Lough.] Chaucer. 

LOWING:  The calling sound made by cows and other bovine animals. 

LOWISH:  Somewhat low. [Colloq.] Richardson. 

LOWK:  See Louk. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LOWLAND:  Land which is low with respect to the neighboring country; a low or level country; -- opposed to highland. The Lowlands, Belgium and Holland; the Netherlands; also, the southern part of Scotland. 

LOWLANDER:  A native or inhabitant of the Lowlands, especially of the Lowlands of Scotland, as distinguished from Highlander.  LOWLIHOOD; LOWLIHEAD Low"li*hood, Low"li*head, n.  A lowly state. [R.] Tennyson. 

LOWLILY:  In a lowly place or manner; humbly. [Obs. or R.] Thinking lowlily of himself and highly of those better than himself. J. C. Shairp. 

LOWLINESS:  Characteristic of, or like, one bred in a low and vulgar condition of life; mean dishonorable; contemptible; as, low-lived dishonesty. 

LOWLY:  Inclined in mind to low or unworthy things; showing a base mind. Low-minded and immoral. Macaulay. All old religious jealousies were condemned as low-minded infirmities. Bancroft.  LOW-MINDEDNESS Low"-mind`ed*ness, n.  The quality of being lowminded; meanness; baseness. 

LOWN:  A low fellow. [Obs.]  LOW-NECKED Low"-necked`, a.  Cut low in the neck; decollete; -- said of a woman's dress. 

LOWNESS:  The state or quality of being low.  LOW-PRESSURE Low"-pres`sure, a.  Having, employing, or exerting, a low degree of pressure. Low- pressure steam engine, a steam engine in which low steam is used; often applied to a condensing engine even when steam at high pressure is used. See Steam engine. 

LOWRY:  An open box car used on railroads. Compare Lorry.  LOW-SPIRITED Low"-spir`it*ed, a.  Deficient in animation and courage; dejected; depressed; not sprightly.  -- Low"-spir`it*ed*ness, n.  LOW STEEL Low steel.  See under Low.  LOW-STUDDED Low"-stud`ded, a.  Furnished or built with short studs; as, a low-studded house or room.  LOW-THOUGHTED Low"-thought`ed, a.  Having one's thoughts directed toward mean or insignificant subjects. 

LOXODROMIC:  Pertaining to sailing on rhumb lines; as, loxodromic tables. Loxodromic curve or line (Geom.), a line on the surface of a sphere, which always makes an equal angle with every meridian; the rhumb line. It is the line on which a ship sails when her course is always in the direction of one and the same point of the compass. 

LOXODROMICS:  The art or method of sailing on the loxodromic or rhumb line. 

LOXODROMISM:  The act or process of tracing a loxodromic curve; the act of moving as if in a loxodromic curve. 

LOXODROMY:  The science of loxodromics. [R.] 

LOY:  A long, narrow spade for stony lands. 

LOYALIST:  A person who adheres to his sovereign or to the lawful authority; especially, one who maintains his allegiance to his prince or government, and defends his cause in times of revolt or revolution. 

LOYALLY:  In a loyal manner; faithfully. 

LOYALNESS:  Loyalty. [R.] Stow. 

LOYALTY:  The state or quality of being loyal; fidelity to a superior, or to duty, love, etc. He had such loyalty to the king as the law required. Clarendon. Not withstanding all the subtle bait With which those Amazons his love still craved, To his one love his loyalty he saved. Spenser.  Note: "Loyalty . . . expresses, properly, that fidelity which one owes according to law, and does not necessarily include that attachment to the royal person, which, happily, we in England have been able further to throw into the word." Trench.  Syn.  -- Allegiance; fealty. See Allegiance. 

LOZENGE:  Having the form of a lozenge or rhomb. The lozenged panes of a very small latticed window. C. Bronté. 

LOZENGY:  Divided into lozenge-shaped compartments, as the field or a bearing, by lines drawn in the direction of the bend sinister. 

LU:  See Loo. 

LUBBARD:  A lubber. [Obs.] Swift. 

LUBBARD:  Lubberly. 

LUBBER:  A heavy, clumsy, or awkward fellow; a sturdy drone; a clown. Lingering lubbers lose many a penny. Tusser. Land lubber, a name given in contempt by sailors to a person who lives on land.  -- Lubber grasshopper (Zoöl.), a large, stout, clumsy grasshopper; esp., Brachystola magna, from the Rocky Mountain plains, and Romalea microptera, which is injurious to orange trees in Florida.  -- Lubber's hole (Naut.), a hole in the floor of the "top," next the mast, through which sailors may go aloft without going over the rim by the futtock shrouds. It is considered by seamen as only fit to be used by lubbers. Totten.  -- Lubber's line, point, or mark, a line or point in the compass case indicating the head of the ship, and consequently the course which the ship is steering. 

LUBBERLY:  Like a lubber; clumsy. A great lubberly boy. Shak. 

LUBBERLY:  Clumsily; awkwardly. Dryden.  LUBRIC; LUBRICAL Lu"bric, Lu"bric*al, a. Etym: [L. lubricus: cf. F. lubrique.]  1. Having a smooth surface; slippery. [R.]  2. Lascivious; wanton; lewd. [R.] This lubric and adulterate age. Dryden. 

LUBRICANT:  Lubricating. 

LUBRICANT:  That which lubricates; specifically, a substance, as oil, grease, plumbago, etc., used for reducing the friction of the working parts of machinery. 

LUBRICATION:  The act of lubricating; the act of making slippery. 

LUBRICITATE:  See Lubricate. 

LUBRICOUS:  Lubric.  LUBRIFICATION; LUBRIFACTION Lu`bri*fi*ca"tion, Lu`bri*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. lubricus lubric + facere to make.]  The act of lubricating, or making smooth. Ray. Bacon. 

LUCARNE:  A dormer window. 

LUCCHESE:  A native or inhabitant of Lucca, in Tuscany; in the plural, the people of Lucca. 

LUCE:  A pike when full grown. Halliwell. 

LUCENCY:  The quality of being lucent. 

LUCENT:  Shining; bright; resplendent. " The sun's lucent orb." Milton. 

LUCERN:  A leguminous plant (Medicago sativa), having bluish purple cloverlike flowers, cultivated for fodder; -- called also alfalfa. [Written also lucerne.] 

LUCERN:  A lamp. [Obs.] Lydgate. 

LUCERNAL:  Of or pertaining to a lamp. Lucernal microscope, a form of the microscope in which the object is illuminated by means of a lamp, and its image is thrown upon a plate of ground glass connected with the instrument, or on a screen independent of it. 

LUCERNARIA:  A genus of acalephs, having a bell-shaped body with eight groups of short tentacles around the margin. It attaches itself by a sucker at the base of the pedicel. 

LUCERNARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Lucernarida.  -- n.  One of the Lucernarida. 

LUCERNE:  See Lucern, the plant. 

LUCIDITY:  The quality or state of being lucid. 

LUCIDLY:  In a lucid manner. 

LUCIDNESS:  The quality of being lucid; lucidity. 

LUCIFER:  A genus of free-swimming macruran Crustacea, having a slender body and long appendages. 

LUCIFERIAN:  One of the followers of Lucifer, bishop of Cagliari, in the fourth century, who separated from the orthodox churches because they would not go as far as he did in opposing the Arians. 

LUCIFEROUS:  Giving light; affording light or means of discovery. Boyle. 

LUCIFEROUSLY:  In a luciferous manner. 

LUCIFIC:  Producing light. Grew. 

LUCIFORM:  Having, in some respects, the nature of light; resembling light. Berkeley. 

LUCIFRIAN:  Luciferian; satanic. [Obs.] Marston. 

LUCIMETER:  an instrument for measuring the intensity of light; a photometer. 

LUCK:  That which happens to a person; an event, good or ill, affecting one's interests or happiness, and which is deemed casual; a course or series of such events regarded as occurring by chance; chance; hap; fate; fortune; often, one's habitual or characteristic fortune; as, good, bad, ill, or hard luck. Luck is often used for good luck; as, luck is better than skill. If thou dost play with him at any game, Thou art sure to lose; and of that natural luck, He beats thee 'gainst the odds. Shak. Luck penny, a small sum given back for luck to one who pays money. [Prov. Eng.] -- To be is luck, to receive some good, or to meet with some success, in an unexpected manner, or as the result of circumstances beyond one's control; to be fortunate. 

LUCKILY:  In a lucky manner; by good fortune; fortunately; -- used in a good sense; as, they luckily escaped injury. 

LUCKLESS:  Being without luck; unpropitious; unfortunate; unlucky; meeting with ill success or bad fortune; as, a luckless gamester; a luckless maid. Prayers made and granted in a luckless hour. Dryden. -- Luck"less*ly, adv.  -- Lock"less*ness, n. 

LUCKY:  See Fatherlasher. 

LUCRATIVELY:  In a lucrative manner. 

LUCRE:  Gain in money or goods; profit; riches; -- often in an ill sense. The lust of lucre and the dread of death. Pope. 

LUCRIFEROUS:  Gainful; profitable. [Obs.] Boyle. 

LUCRIFIC:  Producing profit; gainful. [Obs.] 

LUCTATION:  Effort to overcome in contest; struggle; endeavor. [R.] Farindon. 

LUCTUAL:  Producing grief; saddening. [Obs.] Sir G. Buck. 

LUCUBRATE:  To study by candlelight or a lamp; to study by night. 

LUCUBRATE:  To elaborate, perfect, or compose, by night study or by laborious endeavor. 

LUCUBRATOR:  One who studies by night; also, one who produces lucubrations. 

LUCUBRATORY:  Composed by candlelight, or by night; of or pertaining to night studies; laborious or painstaking. Pope. 

LUCULE:  A spot or fleck on the sun brighter than the surrounding surface. 

LUCULENTLY:  In a luculent manner; clearly. 

LUCULLITE:  A variety of black limestone, often polished for ornamental purposes. 

LUCUMA:  An American genus of sapotaceous trees bearing sweet and edible fruits.  Note: Lucuma mammosum is called natural marmalade in the West Indies; L. Caimito, of Peru, furnishes a delicious fruit called lucuma and caimito. 

LUDDITE:  One of a number of riotous persons in England, who for six years (1811-17) tried to prevent the use of labor-saving machinery by breaking it, burning factories, etc.; -- so called from Ned Lud, a half-witted man who some years previously had broken stocking frames. J. & H. Smith. H. Martineau. 

LUDIBRIOUS:  Sportive; ridiculous; wanton. [Obs.] Tooker. 

LUDIBUND:  Sportive. [Obs.] -- Lu"di*bund*ness, n. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

LUDICROUS:  Adapted to excite laughter, without scorn or contempt; sportive. Broome. A chapter upon German rhetoric would be in the same ludicrous predicament as Van Troil's chapter on the snakes of Iceland, which delivers its business in one summary sentence, announcing, that snakes in Iceland -- there are none. De Quincey.  Syn.  -- Laughable; sportive; burlesque; comic; droll; ridiculous.  -- Ludicrous, Laughable, Ridiculous. We speak of a thing as ludicrous when it tends to produce laughter; as laughable when the impression is somewhat stronger; as ridiculous when more or less contempt is mingled with the merriment created.  -- Lu"di*crous*ly, adv.  -- Lu"di*crous*ness, n. 

LUDIFICATION:  The act of deriding. 

LUDIFICATORY:  Making sport; tending to excite derision. [Obs.] 

LUDLAMITE:  A mineral occurring in small, green, transparent, monoclinic crystals. It is a hydrous phosphate of iron.  LUDLOW GROUP Lud"low group`. (Geol.)  A subdivision of the British Upper Silurian lying below the Old Red Sandstone; -- so named from the Ludlow, in Western England. See the Chart of Geology. 

LUDWIGITE:  A borate of iron and magnesia, occurring in fibrous masses of a blackish green color. 

LUES:  Disease, especially of a contagious kind. Lues venerea, syphilis; -- called also simply lues. 

LUFF:  To turn the head of a vessel toward the wind; to sail nearer the wind; to turn the tiller so as to make the vessel sail nearer the wind. To luff round, or To luff alee, to make the extreme of this movement, for the purpose of throwing the ship's head into the wind. 

LUFFER:  See Louver. 

LUG:  A projecting piece to which anything, as a rod, is attached, or against which anything, as a wedge or key, bears, or through which a bolt passes, etc.  4. (Harness)  The leather loop or ear by which a shaft is held up.  5. (Zoöl.)  The lugworm. Lug bolt (Mach.), a bolt terminating in a long, flat extension which takes the place of a head; a strap bolt. 

LUG:  To pull with force; to haul; to drag along; to carry with difficulty, as something heavy or cumbersome. Dryden. They must divide the image among them, and so lug off every one his share. Collier. 

LUG:  To move slowly and heavily. 

LUGGAGE:  That which is lugged; anything cumbrous and heavy to be carried; especially, a traveler's trunks, baggage, etc., or their contents. I am gathering up my luggage, and preparing for my journey. Swift. What do you mean, To dote thus on such luggage! Shak.  Syn.  -- Plunder; baggage. Luggage van, a vehicle for carrying luggage; a railway car, or compartment of a car, for carrying luggage. [Eng.] 

LUGGER:  A small vessel having two or three masts, and a running bowsprit, and carrying lugsails. See Illustration in Appendix. Totten. 

LUGGER:  An Indian falcon (Falco jugger), similar to the European lanner and the American prairie falcon. 

LUGMARK:  A mark cut into the ear of an animal to identify it; an earmark. 

LUGSAIL:  A square sail bent upon a yard that hangs obliquely to the mast and is raised or lowered with the sail. Totten. 

LUGUBRIOUS:  Mournful; indicating sorrow, often ridiculously or feignedly; doleful; woful; pitiable; as, a whining tone and a lugubrious look. Crossbones, scythes, hourglasses, and other lugubrious emblems of mortality. Hawthorne. -- Lu*gu"bri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Lu*gu"bri*ous*ness, n. 

LUGWORM:  A large marine annelid (Arenicola marina) having a row of tufted gills along each side of the back. It is found burrowing in sandy beaches, both in America and Europe, and is used for bait by European fishermen. Called also lobworm, and baitworm. 

LUKE:  Moderately warm; not hot; tepid.  -- Luke"ness, n. [Obs.] Nine penn'orth o'brandy and water luke. Dickens. 

LUKEWARM:  Moderately warm; neither cold nor hot; tepid; not ardent; not zealous; cool; indifferent. " Lukewarm blood." Spenser. " Lukewarm patriots." Addison. An obedience so lukewarm and languishing that it merits not the name of passion. Dryden. -- Luce"warm`ly, adv.  -- Luce"warm`ness, n. 

LULL:  To cause to rest by soothing influences; to compose; to calm; to soothe; to quiet. " To lull him soft asleep." Spenser. Such sweet compulsion doth in music lie, To lull the daughters of necessity. Milton. 

LULL:  To become gradually calm; to subside; to cease or abate for a time; as, the storm lulls. 

LULLER:  One who, or that which, lulls. 

LULLINGLY:  In a lulling manner; soothingly. 

LUM:  A grayish brown limestone, containing fossil shells, which reflect a beautiful play of colors. It is also called fire marble, from its fiery reflections. 

LUMBAGINOUS:  Of or pertaining to lumbago. 

LUMBAGO:  A rheumatic pain in the loins and the small of the back.  LUMBAR; LUMBAL Lum"bar, Lum"bal, a. Etym: [L. lumbus loin. See Loin.] (Anat.)  Of, pertaining to, or near, the loins; as, the lumbar arteries. Lumbar region (Anat.), the region of the loin; specifically, a region between the hypochondriac and ilias regions, and outside of the umbilical region. 

LUMBER:  To make a sound as if moving heavily or clumsily; to rumble. Cowper.  3. To cut logs in the forest, or prepare timber for market. [U.S.] 

LUMBERER:  One employed in lumbering, cutting, and getting logs from the forest for lumber; a lumberman. [U.S.] Lumberers have a notion that he (the woodpecker) is harmful to timber. Lowell. 

LUMBERING:  The business of cutting or getting timber or logs from the forest for lumber. [U.S.] 

LUMBERMAN:  One who is engaged in lumbering as a business or employment. [U.S.]  LUMBER STATE Lum"ber State.  Maine; -- a nickname. 

LUMBOSACRAL:  Of or pertaining to the loins and sacrum; as, the lumbosacral nerve, a branch of one of the lumber nerves which passes over the sacrum. 

LUMBRIC:  An earthworm, or a worm resembling an earthworm. 

LUMBRICAL:  Resembling a worm; as, the lumbrical muscles of the hands of the hands and feet.  -- n.  A lumbrical muscle. 

LUMBRICIFORM:  Resembling an earthworm; vermiform. 

LUMBRICOID:  Like an earthworm; belonging to the genus Lumbricus, or family Lumbricidæ. 

LUMBRICUS:  A genus of annelids, belonging to the Oligochæta, and including the common earthworms. See Earthworm. 

LUMINANT:  Luminous. [R.] 

LUMINATE:  To illuminate. [Obs.] 

LUMINATION:  Illumination. [Obs.] 

LUMINE:  To illumine. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LUMINESCENT:  Shining with a light due to any of the various causes which produce luminescence. 

LUMINIFEROUS:  Producing light; yielding light; transmitting light; as, the luminiferous ether. 

LUMINOSITY:  The quality or state of being luminous; luminousness. 

LUMMOX:  A fat, ungainly, stupid person; an awkward bungler. [Law.] 

LUMP:  A projection beneath the breech end of a gun barrel. In the lump, In a lump, the whole together; in gross. They may buy them in the lump. Addison. -- Lump coal, coal in large lumps; -- the largest size brought from the mine.  -- Lump sum, a gross sum without a specification of items; as, to award a lump sum in satisfaction of all claims and damages. 

LUMPER:  The European eelpout; -- called also lumpen. 

LUMPFISH:  A large, thick, clumsy, marine fish (Cyclopterus lumpus) of Europe and America. The color is usually translucent sea green, sometimes purplish. It has a dorsal row of spiny tubercles, and three rows on each side, but has no scales. The ventral fins unite and form a ventral sucker for adhesion to stones and seaweeds. Called also lumpsucker, cock-paddle, sea owl. 

LUMPING:  Bulky; heavy. Arbuthnot. 

LUMPISH:  Like a lump; inert; gross; heavy; dull; spiritless. " Lumpish, heavy, melancholy." Shak.  -- Lump"ish*ly, adv.  -- Lump"ish*ness, n. 

LUMPSUCKER:  The lumprish. 

LUMPY:  Full of lumps, or small compact masses.  LUMPY-JAW Lump"y-jaw`. (Med.)  Actinomycosis. [Colloq.] 

LUNA:  Silver. Luna cornea (Old Chem.), horn silver, or fused silver chloride, a tough, brown, translucent mass; -- so called from its resemblance to horn. Luna moth (Zoöl.), a very large and beautiful American moth (Actias luna). Its wings are delicate light green, with a stripe of purple along the front edge of the anterior wings, the other margins being edged with pale yellow. Each wing has a lunate spot surrounded by rings of light yellow, blue, and black. The caterpillar commonly feeds on the hickory, sassafras, and maple. 

LUNAR:  A lunar distance.  2. (Anat.)  The middle bone of the proximal series of the carpus; -- called also semilunar, and intermedium. 

LUNARIAN:  An inhabitant of the moon. 

LUNARY:  Lunar. [Obs.] Fuller. 

LUNARY:  Crescent-shaped; as, a lunate leaf; a lunate beak; a lunated cross. Gray. 

LUNATIC:  A person affected by lunacy; an insane person, esp. one who has lucid intervals; a madman; a person of unsound mind. The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, Are of imagination all compact. Shak. 

LUNATION:  The period of a synodic revolution of the moon, or the time from one new moon to the next; varying in length, at different times, from about 29 

LUNCH:  A luncheon; specifically, a light repast between breakfast and dinner. 

LUNCH:  To take luncheon. Smart. 

LUNCHEON:  To take luncheon. Beaconsfield. 

LUNE:  A figure in the form of a crescent, bounded by two intersecting arcs of circles.  3. A fit of lunacy or madness; a period of frenzy; a crazy or unreasonable freak. [Obs.] These dangerous, unsafe lunes i' the king. Shak. 

LUNET:  A little moon or satellite. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

LUNETTE:  A fieldwork consisting of two faces, forming a salient angle, and two parallel flanks. See Bastion.  2. (Far.)  A half horseshoe, which wants the sponge.  3. A kind of watch crystal which is more than ordinarily flattened in the center; also, a species of convexoconcave lens for spectacles.  4. A piece of felt to cover the eye of a vicious horse.  5. (Arch.)  Any surface of semicircular or segmental form; especially, the piece of wall between the curves of a vault and its springing line.  6. An iron shoe at the end of the stock of a gun carriage. Lunette window (Arch.), a window which fills or partly fills a lunette. 

LUNG:  An organ for aërial respiration; -- commonly in the plural. My lungs began to crow like chanticleer. Shak.  Note: In all air-breathing vertebrates the lungs are developed from the ventral wall of the esophagus as a pouch which divides into two sacs. In amphibians and many reptiles the lungs retain very nearly this primitive saclike character, but in the higher forms the connection with the esophagus becomes elongated into the windpipe and the inner walls of the sacs become more and more divided, until, in the mammals, the air spaces become minutely divided into tubes ending in small air cells, in the walls of which the blood circulates in a fine network of capillaries. In mammals the lungs are more or less divided into lobes, and each lung occupies a separate cavity in the thorax. See Respiration. Lung fever (Med.), pneumonia.  -- Lung flower (Bot.), a species of gentian (G. Pneumonanthe).  -- Lung lichen (Bot.), tree lungwort. See under Lungwort. Lung sac (Zoöl.), one of the breathing organs of spiders and snails. 

LUNGE:  A sudden thrust or pass, as with a sword. 

LUNGE:  To make a lunge. 

LUNGE:  To cause to go round in a ring, as a horse, while holding his halter. Thackeray. 

LUNGE:  Same as Namaycush. 

LUNGED:  Having lungs, or breathing organs similar to lungs. 

LUNGFISH:  Any fish belonging to the Dipnoi; -- so called because they have both lungs and gills.  LUNG-GROWN Lung"-grown`, a. (Med.)  Having lungs that adhere to the pleura. 

LUNGIE:  A guillemot. [Written also longie.] [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

LUNGIS:  A lingerer; a dull, drowsy fellow. [Obs.] 

LUNGLESS:  Being without lungs. 

LUNGOOR:  A long-tailed monkey (Semnopithecus schislaceus), from the mountainous districts of India. 

LUNGWORM:  Any one of several species of parasitic nematoid worms which infest the lungs and air passages of cattle, sheep, and other animals, often proving fatal. The lungworm of cattle (Strongylus micrurus) and that of sheep (S. filaria) are the best known. 

LUNICURRENT:  Having relation to changes in currents that depend on the moon's phases. Bache. 

LUNIFORM:  Resembling the moon in shape. 

LUNISOLAR:  Resulting from the united action, or pertaining to the mutual relations, of the sun and moon. Lunisolar precession (Astron.), that portion of the annual precession of the equinoxes which depends on the joint action of the sun and moon.  -- Lunisolar year, a period of time, at the end of which, in the Julian calendar, the new and full moons and the eclipses recur on the same days of the week and month and year as in the previous period. It consists of 532 common years, being the least common multiple of the numbers of years in the cycle of the sun and the cycle of the moon. 

LUNISTICE:  The farthest point of the moon's northing and southing, in its monthly revolution. [Obs.] 

LUNITIDAL:  Pertaining to tidal movements dependent on the moon. Bache. Lunitidal interval. See Retard, n. 

LUNULA:  Same as Lunule. 

LUNULAR:  Having a form like that of the new moon; shaped like a crescent.  LUNULATE; LUNULATED Lu"nu*late, Lu"nu*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Lunula.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Resembling a small crescent. Gray. 

LUNULE:  Anything crescent-shaped; a crescent-shaped part or mark; a lunula, a lune.  2. (Chem.)  A lune. See Lune.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) A small or narrow crescent. (b) A special area in front of the beak of many bivalve shells. It sometimes has the shape of a double crescent, but is oftener heart- shaped. See Illust. of Bivalve. 

LUNULET:  A small spot, shaped like a half-moon or crescent; as, the lunulet on the wings of many insects. 

LUNULITE:  Any bryozoan of the genus Lunulites, having a more or less circular form. 

LUNY:  Crazy; mentally unsound. [Written also loony.] [Law, U.S.] 

LUPERCAL:  Of or pertaining to the Lupercalia. 

LUPERCAL:  A grotto on the Palatine Hill sacred to Lupercus, the Lycean Pan. 

LUPERCALIA:  A feast of the Romans in honor of Lupercus, or Pan. 

LUPINE:  A leguminous plant of the genus Lupinus, especially L. albus, the seeds of which have been used for food from ancient times. The common species of the Eastern United States is L. perennis. There are many species in California. 

LUPINE:  Wolfish; ravenous. Gauden. 

LUPININ:  A glucoside found in the seeds of several species of lupine, and extracted as a yellowish white crystalline substance. 

LUPININE:  An alkaloid found in several species of lupine (Lupinus luteus, L. albus, etc.), and extracted as a bitter crystalline substance. 

LUPULIN:  A bitter principle extracted from hops.  2. The fine yellow resinous powder found upon the strobiles or fruit of hops, and containing this bitter principle. [Written also lupuline.] 

LUPULINE:  An alkaloid extracted from hops as a colorless volatile liquid. 

LUPULINIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, hops; specifically, designating an acid obtained by the decomposition of lupulin. 

LUPUS:  A cutaneous disease occurring under two distinct forms.  Note: Lupus erythematosus is characterized by an eruption of red patches, which become incrusted, leaving superficial scars. L. vulgaris is marked by the development of nodules which often ulcerate deeply and produce great deformity. Formerly the latter was often confounded with cancer, and some varieties of cancer were included under Lupus.  2. (Astron.)  The Wolf, a constellation situated south of Scorpio. 

LURCATION:  Gluttony; gormandizing. [Obs.] 

LURCH:  To swallow or eat greedily; to devour; hence, to swallow up. [Obs.] Too far off from great cities, which may hinder business; too near them, which lurcheth all provisions, and maketh everything dear. Bacon. 

LURCH:  A sudden roll of a ship to one side, as in heavy weather; hence, a swaying or staggering movement to one side, as that by a drunken man. Fig.: A sudden and capricious inclination of the mind. 

LURCH:  To roll or sway suddenly to one side, as a ship or a drunken man. 

LURCHER:  One of a mongrel breed of dogs said to have been a cross between the sheep dog, greyhound, and spaniel. It hunts game silently, by scent, and is often used by poachers. 

LURCHER:  A glutton; a gormandizer. [Obs.] 

LURCHLINE:  The line by which a fowling net was pulled over so as to inclose the birds. 

LURDAN:  Stupid; blockish. [Obs.] 

LURDAN:  A blockhead. [Obs.] 

LURE:  A velvet smoothing brush. Knight. 

LURE:  To draw to the lure; hence, to allure or invite by means of anything that promises pleasure or advantage; to entice; to attract. I am not lured with love. Piers Plowman. And various science lures the learned eye. Gay. 

LURE:  To recall a hawk or other animal. 

LURG:  A large marine annelid (Nephthys cæca), inhabiting the sandy shores of Europe and America. It is whitish, with a pearly luster, and grows to the length of eight or ten inches. 

LURID:  Having a brown color tonged with red, as of flame seen through smoke.  3. (Zoöl.)  Of a color tinged with purple, yellow, and gray. 

LURRY:  A confused heap; a throng, as of persons; a jumble, as of sounds. [Obs.] To turn prayer into a kind of lurry. Milton. 

LUSERN:  A lynx. See 1st Lucern and Loup-cervier. 

LUSH:  Full of juice or succulence. Tennyson. How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green! Shak. 

LUSHBURG:  See Lussheburgh. [Obs.] 

LUSITANIAN:  Pertaining to Lusitania, the ancient name of the region almost coinciding with Portugal.  -- n.  One of the people of Lusitania. 

LUSK:  Lazy; slothful. [Obs.] 

LUSK:  A lazy fellow; a lubber. [Obs.] T. Kendall. 

LUSK:  To be idle or unemployed. [Obs.] 

LUSKISH:  Inclined to be lazy. Marston.  -- Lusk"*ish*ly, adv. -Lusk"ish*ness, n. [Obs.] Spenser.  LUSORIOUS; LUSORY Lu*so"ri*ous, Lu"so*ry, a. Etym: [L. lusorius. See Illusory.]  Used in play; sportive; playful. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. 

LUSSHEBURGH:  A spurious coin of light weight imported into England from Luxemburg, or Lussheburgh, as it was formerly called. [Obs.] God wot, no Lussheburghes payen ye. Chaucer. 

LUSTER:  One who lusts.  LUSTER; LUSTRE Lus"ter Lus"tre, n. Etym: [L. lustrum: cf. F. lustre.]  A period of five years; a lustrum. Both of us have closed the tenth luster. Bolingbroke.  LUSTER; LUSTRE Lus"ter, Lus"tre, n. Etym: [F. lustre; cf. It. lustro; both fr. L. lustrare to purify, go about (like the priests at the lustral sacrifice), traverse, survey, illuminate, fr. lustrum a purificatory sacrifice; perh. akin to E. loose. But lustrare to illuminate is perh. a different word, and akin to L. lucere to be light or clear, to shine. See Lucid, and cf. Illustrious, Lustrum.]  1. Brilliancy; splendor; brightness; glitter. The right mark and very true luster of the diamond. Sir T. More. The scorching sun was mounted high, In all its luster, to the noonday sky. Addison.  Note: There is a tendency to limit the use of luster, in this sense, to the brightness of things which do not shine with their own light, or at least do not blaze or glow with heat. One speaks of the luster of a diamond, or of silk, or even of the stars, but not often now of the luster of the sun, a coal of fire, or the like.  2. Renown; splendor; distinction; glory. His ancestors continued about four hundred years, rather without obscurity than with any great luster. Sir H. Wotton.  3. A candlestick, chandelier, girandole, or the like, generally of an ornamental character. Pope.  4. (Min.)  The appearance of the surface of a mineral as affected by, or dependent upon, peculiarities of its reflecting qualities.  Note: The principal kinds of luster recognized are: metallic, adamantine, vitreous, resinous, greasy, pearly, and silky. With respect to intensity, luster is characterized as splendent, shining, glistening, glimmering, and dull.  5. A substance which imparts luster to a surface, as plumbago and some of the glazes.  6. A fabric of wool and cotton with a lustrous surface, -- used for women's dresses. Luster ware, earthenware decorated by applying to the glazing metallic oxides, which acquire brilliancy in the process of baking.  LUSTER; LUSTRE Lus"ter, Lus"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lustred; p. pr. & vb. n. Lustering, or Lustring.]  To make lustrous. [R. & Poetic] Flooded and lustered with her loosened gold. Lowell. 

LUSTERING:  Destitute of luster; dim; dull. 

LUSTIC:  Lusty; vigorous. [Obs.] 

LUSTIHEAD:  See Lustihood. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LUSTIHOOD:  State of being lusty; vigor of body. " Full of lustihood." Tennyson. 

LUSTILY:  In a lusty or vigorous manner. 

LUSTINESS:  State of being lusty; vigor; strength. 

LUSTRATE:  To make clear or pure by means of a propitiatory offering; to purify. We must purge, and cleanse, and lustrate the whole city. Hammond. 

LUSTRATION:  A sacrifice, or ceremony, by which cities, fields, armies, or people, defiled by crimes, pestilence, or other cause of uncleanness, were purified. 

LUSTRE:  Same as Luster. 

LUSTRICAL:  Pertaining to, or used for, purification. 

LUSTRING:  A kind of glossy silk fabric. See Lutestring. 

LUSTROUS:  Bright; shining; luminous. " Good sparks and lustrous." Shak.  -- Lus"trous*ly, adv. 

LUSTRUM:  A lustration or purification, especially the purification of the whole Roman people, which was made by the censors once in five years. Hence: A period of five years. 

LUSTWORT:  See Sundew. 

LUSTY:  Sport or freak of nature; a deformed or unnatural production. 

LUTANIST:  A person that plays on the lute. Johnson. 

LUTARIOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or like, mud; living in mud. [Obs.] Grew. 

LUTATION:  The act or method of luting vessels. 

LUTE:  A cement of clay or other tenacious infusible substance for sealing joints in apparatus, or the mouths of vessels or tubes, or for coating the bodies of retorts, etc., when exposed to heat; -- called also luting.  2. A packing ring, as of rubber, for fruit jars, etc.  3. (Brick Making)  A straight-edged piece of wood for striking off superfluous clay from mold. 

LUTE:  To close or seal with lute; as, to lute on the cover of a crucible; to lute a joint. 

LUTE:  A stringed instrument formerly much in use. It consists of four parts, namely, the table or front, the body, having nine or ten ribs or "sides," arranged like the divisions of a melon, the neck, which has nine or ten frets or divisions, and the head, or cross, in which the screws for tuning are inserted. The strings are struck with the right hand, and with the left the stops are pressed. 

LUTE:  To sound, as a lute. Piers Plowman. Keats. 

LUTE:  To play on a lute, or as on a lute. Knaves are men That lute and flute fantastic tenderness. Tennyson.  LUTE-BACKED Lute"-backed`, a.  Having a curved spine. 

LUTECIUM:  A metallic element separated from ytterbium in 1907, by Urbain in Paris and by von Welsbach in Vienna. Symbol, Lu; at. wt. 174.0. 

LUTEIN:  A substance of a strongly marked yellow color, extracted from the yelk of eggs, and from the tissue of the corpus luteum. 

LUTENIST:  Same as Lutanist.  LUTEO- Lu"te*o-. Etym: [L. luteus.] (Chem.)  A combining form signifying orange yellow or brownish yellow. 

LUTEOCOBALTIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of cobalt having a yellow color. Cf. Cobaltic. Luteocobaltic chloride (Chem.), a brilliant reddish yellow crystalline compound, Co2Cl6(NH3)12, obtained by the action of ammonium chloride on an ammoniacal solution of cobaltic chloride. 

LUTEOLIN:  A yellow dyestuff obtained from the foliage of the dyer's broom (Reseda luteola). 

LUTEOUS:  Yellowish; more or less like buff. 

LUTER:  One who plays on a lute. 

LUTER:  One who applies lute. 

LUTESCENT:  Of a yellowish color. 

LUTESTRING:  A plain, stout, lustrous silk, used for ladies' dresses and for ribbon. Goldsmith. 

LUTH:  The leatherback. 

LUTHERAN:  Of or pertaining to Luther; adhering to the doctrines of Luther or the Lutheran Church. 

LUTHERAN:  One who accepts or adheres to the doctrines of Luther or the Lutheran Church.  LUTHERANISM; LUTHERISM Lu"ther*an*ism, Lu"ther*ism, n.  The doctrines taught by Luther or held by the Lutheran Church. 

LUTHERN:  A dormer window. See Dormer. 

LUTIDINE:  Any one of several metameric alkaloids, C5H3N.(CH3)2, of the pyridine series, obtained from bone oil as liquids, and having peculiar pungent odors. These alkaloids are also called respectively dimethyl pyridine, ethyl pyridine, etc. 

LUTING:  See Lute, a cement. 

LUTIST:  One who plays on a lute. 

LUTOSE:  Covered with clay; miry. 

LUTULENCE:  The state or quality of being lutulent. 

LUTULENT:  Muddy; turbid; thick. [Obs.] 

LUWACK:  See Paradoxure. 

LUX:  To put out of joint; to luxate. [Obs.] 

LUXATE:  Luxated. [Obs.] 

LUXATE:  To displace, or remove from its proper place, as a joint; to put out of joint; to dislocate. 

LUXATION:  The act of luxating, or the state of being luxated; a dislocation. 

LUXE:  Luxury. [Obs.] Shenstone. Édition de luxe (. Etym: [F.] (Printing) A sumptuous edition as regards paper, illustrations, binding, etc. 

LUXIVE:  Given to luxury; voluptuous. [Obs.] 

LUXULLIANITE:  A kind of granite from Luxullian, Cornwall, characterized by the presence of radiating groups of minute tourmaline crystals. 

LUXURIANCE:  The state or quality of being luxuriant; rank, vigorous growth; excessive abundance produced by rank growth. "Tropical luxuriance." B. Taylor. 

LUXURIANCY:  The state or quality of being luxuriant; luxuriance. Flowers grow up in the garden in the greatest luxuriancy and profusion. Spectator. 

LUXURIANT:  Exuberant in growth; rank; excessive; very abundant; as, a luxuriant growth of grass; luxuriant foliage. Prune the luxuriant, the uncouth refine. Pope. Luxuriant flower (Bot.), one in which the floral envelopes are overdeveloped at the expense of the essential organs. 

LUXURIANTLY:  In a luxuriant manner. 

LUXURIATION:  The act or process luxuriating. 

LUXURIETY:  Luxuriance. [Obs.] 

LUXURIOUS:  Of or pertaining to luxury; ministering to luxury; supplied with the conditions of luxury; as, a luxurious life; a luxurious table; luxurious ease. " Luxurious cities. " Milton.  -- Lux*u"ri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Lux*u"ri*ous*ness, n. 

LUXURIST:  One given to luxury. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple. 

LUZ:  A bone of the human body which was supposed by certain Rabbinical writers to be indestructible. Its location was a matter of dispute. Brande & C.  -LY -ly. Etym: [OE. -lich, AS. -lic, orig. the same word as E. li, a. See Like, a.]  A suffix forming adjectives and adverbs, and denoting likeness or resemblance. 

LYAM:  A leash. [Obs.] 

LYCANTHROPIA:  See Lycanthropy, 2. 

LYCANTHROPIC:  Pertaining to lycanthropy. 

LYCANTHROPIST:  One affected by the disease lycanthropy. 

LYCANTHROPOUS:  Lycanthropic. 

LYCANTHROPY:  A kind of erratic melancholy, in which the patient imagines himself a wolf, and imitates the actions of that animal. 

LYCEE:  A French lyceum, or secondary school supported by the French government, for preparing students for the university. 

LYCHE:  Like. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LYCHEE:  See Litchi.  LYCH GATE Lych" gate`  . See under Lich. 

LYCHNIS:  A genus of Old World plants belonging to the Pink family (Caryophyllaceæ). Most of the species have brilliantly colored flowers and cottony leaves, which may have anciently answered as wicks for lamps. The botanical name is in common use for the garden species. The corn cockle (Lychnis Githago) is a common weed in wheat fields. 

LYCHNOBITE:  One who labors at night and sleeps in the day. 

LYCHNOSCOPE:  Same as Low side window, under Low, a. 

LYCINE:  A weak base identical with betaine; -- so called because found in the boxthorn (Lycium barbarum). See Betaine. 

LYCOPERDON:  A genus of fungi, remarkable for the great quantity of spores, forming a fine dust, which is thrown out like smoke when the plant is compressed or burst; puffball. 

LYCOPOD:  A plant of the genus Lycopodium. 

LYCOPODE:  Same as Lycopodium powder. See under Lycopodium. 

LYCOPODIACEOUS:  Belonging, or relating, to the Lycopodiaceæ, an order of cryptogamous plants (called also club mosses) with branching stems, and small, crowded, one-nerved, and usually pointed leaves. 

LYCOPODITE:  An old name for a fossil club moss. 

LYCOPODIUM:  A genus of mosslike plants, the type of the order Lycopodiaceæ; club moss. Lycopodium powder, a fine powder or dust composed of the spores of Lycopodium, and other plants of the order Lycopodiaceæ. It is highly inflammable, and is sometimes used in the manufacture of fireworks, and the artificial representation of lightning. 

LYCOTROPOUS:  Campylotropous. 

LYDDITE:  A high explosive consisting principally of picric acid, used as a shell explosive in the British service; -- so named from the proving grounds at Lydd, England. 

LYDEN:  See Leden. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

LYDIAN:  Of or pertaining to Lydia, a country of Asia Minor, or to its inhabitants; hence, soft; effeminate; -- said especially of one of the ancient Greek modes or keys, the music in which was of a soft, pathetic, or voluptuous character. Softly sweet in Lydian measures, Soon he soothed his soul to pleasures. Dryden. Lydian stone, a flint slate used by the ancients to try gold and silver; a touchstone. See Basanite. 

LYDINE:  A violet dye derived from aniline. 

LYE:  A strong caustic alkaline solution of potassium salts, obtained by leaching wood ashes. It is much used in making soap, etc. 

LYE:  A short side line, connected with the main line; a turn-out; a siding. [Eng.] 

LYE:  A falsehood. [Obs.] See Lie. 

LYENCEPHALA:  A group of Mammalia, including the marsupials and monotremes; - - so called because the corpus callosum is rudimentary. 

LYENCEPHALOUS:  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Lyencephala. 

LYERMAN:  The cicada. 

LYGODIUM:  A genus of ferns with twining or climbing fronds, bearing stalked and variously-lobed divisions in pairs.  Note: Lygodium palmatum, much prized for indoor ornament, inhabits shaded and moist grassy places, from Massachusetts to Virginia and Kentucky, and sparingly southwards. 

LYING:  of Lie, to tell a falsehood. 

LYING:  of Lie, to be supported horizontally. Lying panel (Arch.), a panel in which the grain of the wood is horizontal. [R.] -- Lying to (Naut.), having the sails so disposed as to counteract each other.  LYING-IN Ly"ing-in", n.  1. The state attending, and consequent to, childbirth; confinement.  2. The act of bearing a child. 

LYINGLY:  In a lying manner; falsely. 

LYKEN:  To please; -- chiefly used impersonally. [Obs.] " Sith it lyketh you." Chaucer.  LYM; LYMHOUND Lym, or; Lym"hound`, n.  A dog held in a leam; a bloodhound; a limehound. [Obs.] Shak. 

LYMAIL:  See Limaille. [Obs.] Chaucer.  LYME GRASS Lyme" grass`. (Bot.)  A coarse perennial grass of several species of Elymus, esp. E. Canadensis, and the European E. arenarius. 

LYMPH:  An alkaline colorless fluid, contained in the lymphatic vessels, coagulable like blood, but free from red blood corpuscles. It is absorbed from the various tissues and organs of the body, and is finally discharged by the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts into the great veins near the heart.  3. (Med.)  A fibrinous material exuded from the blood vessels in inflammation. In the process of healing it is either absorbed, or is converted into connective tissue binding the inflamed surfaces together. Lymph corpuscles (Anat.), finely granular nucleated cells, identical with the colorless blood corpuscles, present in the lymph and chyle.  -- Lymph duct (Anat.), a lymphatic.  -- Lymph heart. See Note under Heart, n., 1. 

LYMPHADENITIS:  Inflammation of the lymphatic glands; -- called also lymphitis. 

LYMPHADENOMA:  See Lymphoma. 

LYMPHANGEITIS:  Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels. [Written also lymphangitis.] 

LYMPHANGIAL:  Of or pertaining to the lymphatics, or lymphoid tissue; lymphatic.  LYMPHATE; LYMPHATED Lymph"ate, Lymph"a*ted, a. Etym: [L. lymphatus, p. p. of lymphare to water, dilute with water, to drive out of one's senses, to make mad.]  Frightened into madness; raving. [Obs.] 

LYMPHATIC:  pertaining to, containing, or conveying lymph.  2. Madly enthusiastic; frantic. [Obs.] " Lymphatic rapture. " Sir T. Herbert. Etym: [See Lymphate.] Lymphatic gland (Anat.), one of the solid glandlike bodies connected with the lymphatics or the lacteals; -- called also lymphatic ganglion, and conglobate gland.  -- Lymphatic temperament (Old Physiol.), a temperament in which the lymphatic system seems to predominate, that is, a system in which the complexion lacks color and the tissues seem to be of loose texture; hence, a temperament lacking energy, inactive, indisposed to exertion or excitement. See Temperament. 

LYMPHATIC:  One of the lymphatic or absorbent vessels, which carry lymph and discharge it into the veins; lymph duct; lymphatic duct.  2. A mad enthusiast; a lunatic. [Obs.] 

LYMPHITIS:  See Lymphadenitis.  LYMPH NODE Lymph node. (Anat.)  A lymphatic gland.  M. 

LYMPHOGENIC:  Connected with, or formed in, the lymphatic glands. 

LYMPHOGRAPHY:  A description of the lymphatic vessels, their origin and uses. 

LYMPHOID:  Resembling lymph; also, resembling a lymphatic gland; adenoid; as, lymphoid tissue. 

LYMPHOMA:  A tumor having a structure resembling that of a lymphatic gland; -- called also lymphadenoma. Malignant lymphoma, a fatal disease characterized by the formation in various parts of the body of new growths resembling lymphatic glands in structure. 

LYMPHY:  Containing, or like, lymph. 

LYN:  A waterfall. See Lin. [Scot.] 

LYNCEAN:  Of or pertaining to the lynx. 

LYNCH:  To inflict punishment upon, especially death, without the forms of law, as when a mob captures and hangs a suspected person. See Lynch law. 

LYNCHER:  One who assists in lynching.  LYNCH LAW Lynch" law`  . The act or practice by private persons of inflicting punishment for crimes or offenses, without due process of law.  Note: The term Lynch law is said to be derived from a Virginian named Lynch, who took the law into his own hands. But the origin of the term is very doubtful.  LYNDE; LYNDEN Lynde, Lyn"den, n.  See Linden. 

LYNE:  Linen. [Obs.] Spenser. 

LYNX:  Any one of several species of feline animals of the genus Felis, and subgenus Lynx. They have a short tail, and usually a pencil of hair on the tip of the ears.  Note: Among the well-known species are the European lynx (Felis borealis); the Canada lynx or loup-cervier (F. Canadensis); the bay lynx of America (F. rufa), and its western spotted variety (var. maculata); and the pardine lynx (F. pardina) of Southern Europe.  2. (Astron.)  One of the northern constellations.  LYNX-EYED Lynx"-eyed`, a.  Having acute sight. 

LYONNAISE:  Applied to boiled potatoes cut into small pieces and heated in oil or butter. They are usually flavored with onion and parsley. 

LYOPOMATA:  An order of brachiopods, in which the valves of shell are not articulated by a hinge. It includes the Lingula, Discina, and allied forms. [Written also Lyopoma.] 

LYRA:  A northern constellation, the Harp, containing a white star of the first magnitude, called Alpha Lyræ, or Vega.  2. (Anat.)  The middle portion of the ventral surface of the fornix of the brain; -- so called from the arrangement of the lines with which it is marked in the human brain. 

LYRAID:  Same as Lyrid.  LYRATE; LYRATED Ly"rate, Ly"ra*ted, a. Etym: [NL. lyratus. See Lyre.]  1. (Bot.)  Lyre-shaped, or spatulate and oblong, with small lobes toward the base; as, a lyrate leaf.  2. (Zoöl.)  Shaped like a lyre, as the tail of the blackcock, or that of the lyre bird. 

LYRE:  A stringed instrument of music; a kind of harp much used by the ancients, as an accompaniment to poetry.  Note: The lyre was the peculiar instrument of Apollo, the tutelary god of music and poetry. It gave name to the species of verse called lyric, to which it originally furnished an accompaniment  2. (Astron.)  One of the constellations; Lyra. See Lyra. Lyre bat (Zoöl.), a small bat (Megaderma lyra), inhabiting India and Ceylon. It is remarkable for the enormous size and curious shape of the nose membrane and ears.  -- Lyre turtle (Zoöl.), the leatherback.  LYRE BIRD Lyre" bird`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of two or three species of Australian birds of the genus Menura. The male is remarkable for having the sixteen tail feathers very long and, when spread, arranged in the form of a lyre. The common lyre bird (Menura superba), inhabiting New South Wales, is about the size of a grouse. Its general color is brown, with rufous color on the throat, wings, tail coverts and tail. Called also lyre pheasant and lyre-tail.  LYRIC; LYRICAL Lyr"ic, Lyr"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. lyricus, Gr. lyrique. See Lyre.]  1. Of or pertaining to a lyre or harp.  2. Fitted to be sung to the lyre; hence, also, appropriate for song; -- said especially of poetry which expresses the individual emotions of the poet. "Sweet lyric song." Milton. 

LYRIC:  The words of a song. 

LYRICALLY:  In a lyrical manner. 

LYRICISM:  A lyric composition. Gray. 

LYRID:  One of the group of shooting stars which come into the air in certain years on or about the 19th of April; -- so called because the apparent path among the stars the stars if produced back wards crosses the constellation Lyra. 

LYRIE:  A European fish (Peristethus cataphractum), having the body covered with bony plates, and having three spines projecting in front of the nose; -- called also noble, pluck, pogge, sea poacher, and armed bullhead. 

LYRIFEROUS:  Having a lyre-shaped shoulder girdle, as certain fishes. 

LYRISM:  The act of playing on a lyre or harp. G. Eliot. 

LYRIST:  A musician who plays on the harp or lyre; a composer of lyrical poetry. Shelley. 

LYSIMETER:  An instrument for measuring the water that percolates through a certain depth of soil. Knight. 

LYSIS:  The resolution or favorable termination of a disease, coming on gradually and not marked by abrupt change.  Note: It is usually contrasted with crisis, in which the improvement is sudden and marked; as, pneumonia ends by crisis, typhoid fever by lysis. 

LYSSA:  Hydrophobia.  Note: The plural (Lyssæ) has been used to signify the pustules supposed to be developed under the tongue in hydrophobia. 

LYTERIAN:  Termination a disease; indicating the end of a disease. 

LYTHE:  The European pollack; -- called also laith, and leet. [Scot.] 

LYTHE:  Soft; flexible. [Obs.] Spenser.  LYTHONTHRIPTIC; LYTHONTRIPTIC Lyth`on*thrip"tic, Lyth`on*trip"*tic, a. (Med.)  See Lithontriptic. 

LYTTA:  A fibrous and muscular band lying within the longitudinal axis of the tongue in many mammals, as the dog. 

MA:  But; -- used in cautionary phrases; as, "Vivace, ma non troppo presto" (i. e., lively, but not too quick). Moore (Encyc. of Music). 

MAA:  The common European gull (Larus canus); -- called also mar. See New, a gull. 

MAAD:  Made.  Chaucer. 

MAALIN:  Madam; my lady; -- a colloquial contraction of madam often used in direct address, and sometimes as an appellation.  MAARA SHELL Ma"a*ra shell`. (Zoöl.)  A large, pearly, spiral, marine shell (Turbo margaritaceus), from the Pacific Islands. It is used as an ornament. 

MAASHA:  An East Indian coin, of about one tenth of the weight of a rupee. 

MAAT:  Dejected; sorrowful; downcast. [Obs.] "So piteous and so maat." Chaucer. 

MABBLE:  To wrap up. [Obs.] 

MABBY:  A spirituous liquor or drink distilled from potatoes; -- used in the Barbadoes. 

MABOLO:  A kind of persimmon tree (Diospyros discolor) from the Philippine Islands, now introduced into the East and West Indies. It bears an edible fruit as large as a quince. 

MAC:  A prefix, in names of Scotch origin, signifying son. 

MACACO:  Any one of several species of lemurs, as the ruffed lemur (Lemur macaco), and the ring-tailed lemur (L. catta). 

MACACUS:  A genus of monkeys, found in Asia and the East Indies. They have short tails and prominent eyebrows. 

MACADAMIZATION:  The process or act of macadamizing. 

MACADAMIZE:  To cover, as a road, or street, with small, broken stones, so as to form a smooth, hard, convex surface.  MACADAM ROAD Mac*ad"am road`. [See Macadamize.]  A macadamized road. 

MACAO:  A macaw. 

MACAQUE:  Any one of several species of short-tailed monkeys of the genus Macacus; as, M. maurus, the moor macaque of the East Indies.  MACARANGA GUM Mac`a*ran"ga gum`.  A gum of a crimson color, obtained from a tree (Macaranga Indica) that grows in the East Indies. It is used in taking impressions of coins, medallions, etc., and sometimes as a medicine. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

MACARIZE:  To congratulate. [Oxford Univ. Cant]  Whately. 

MACARTNEY:  A fire-backed pheasant. See Fireback.  MACASSAR OIL Ma*cas`sar oil".  A kind of oil formerly used in dressing the hair; -- so called because originally obtained from Macassar, a district of the Island of Celebes. Also, an imitation of the same, of perfumed castor oil and olive oil. 

MACAUCO:  Any one of several species of small lemurs, as Lemur murinus, which resembles a rat in size. 

MACAVAHU:  A small Brazilian monkey (Callithrix torquatus), -- called also collared teetee. 

MACAW:  Any parrot of the genus Sittace, or Macrocercus. About eighteen species are known, all of them American. They are large and have a very long tail, a strong hooked bill, and a naked space around the eyes. The voice is harsh, and the colors are brilliant and strongly contrasted.  Macaw bush (Bot.), a West Indian name for a prickly kind of nightshade (Solanum mammosum). --Macaw palm, Macaw tree (Bot.), a tropical American palm (Acrocomia fusiformis and other species) having a prickly stem and pinnately divided leaves. Its nut yields a yellow butter, with the perfume of violets, which is used in making violet soap. Called also grugru palm. 

MACCABEAN:  Of or pertaining to Judas Maccabeus or to the Maccabees; as, the Maccabean princes; Maccabean times. 

MACCABEES:  A kind of snuff. 

MACCO:  A gambling game in vogue in the eighteenth century. Thackeray. 

MACE:  A money of account in China equal to one tenth of a tael; also, a weight of 57.98 grains. S. W. Williams. 

MACE:  A kind of spice; the aril which partly covers nutmegs. See Nutmeg.  Note: Red mace is the aril of Myristica tingens, and white mace that of M. Otoba, -- East Indian trees of the same genus with the nutmeg tree. 

MACE:  A rod for playing billiards, having one end suited to resting on the table and pushed with one hand. Mace bearer, an officer who carries a mace before person in authority. 

MACEDOINE:  A kind of mixed dish, as of cooked vegetables with white sauce, sweet jelly with whole fruit, etc. Also, fig., a medley. 

MACEDONIAN:  Belonging, or relating, to Macedonia.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Macedonia. 

MACEDONIAN:  One of a certain religious sect, followers of Macedonius, Bishop of Constantinople, in the fourth century, who held that the Holy Ghost was a creature, like the angels, and a servant of the Father and the Son. 

MACEDONIANISM:  The doctrines of Macedonius. 

MACER:  A mace bearer; an officer of a court. P. Plowman. 

MACERATER:  One who, or that which, macerates; an apparatus for converting paper or fibrous matter into pulp. 

MACERATION:  The act or process of macerating.  MACHAERODUS; MACHAIRODUS Ma*chæ"ro*dus, Ma*chai"ro*dus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)  A genus of extinct mammals allied to the cats, and having in the upper jaw canine teeth of remarkable size and strength; -- hence called saber-toothed tigers. 

MACHETE:  A large heavy knife resembling a broadsword, often two or three feet in length, -- used by the inhabitants of Spanish America as a hatchet to cut their way through thickets, and for various other purposes. J. Stevens. 

MACHIAVELIAN:  Of or pertaining to Machiavel, or to his supposed principles; politically cunning; characterized by duplicity or bad faith; crafty. 

MACHIAVELIAN:  One who adopts the principles of Machiavel; a cunning and unprincipled politician.  MACHIAVELISM; MACHIAVELIANISM Mach"i*a*vel*ism, Mach`i*a*vel"ian*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. machiavélisme; It. machiavellismo.]  The supposed principles of Machiavel, or practice in conformity to them; political artifice, intended to favor arbitrary power. 

MACHICOLATED:  Having machicolations. "Machicolated turrets." C. Kingsley. 

MACHICOLATION:  An opening between the corbels which support a projecting parapet, or in the floor of a gallery or the roof of a portal, shooting or dropping missiles upen assailants attacking the base of the walls. Also, the construction of such defenses, in general, when of this character. See Illusts. of Battlement and Castle.  2. The act of discharging missiles or pouring burning or melted substances upon assailants through such apertures. 

MACHICOULIS:  Same as Machicolation. 

MACHINAL:  Of or pertaining to machines. 

MACHINATE:  To plan; to contrive; esp., to form a scheme with the purpose of doing harm; to contrive artfully; to plot. "How long will you machinate!" Sandys. 

MACHINATE:  To contrive, as a plot; to plot; as, to machinate evil. 

MACHINATOR:  One who machinates, or forms a scheme with evil designs; a plotter or artful schemer. Glanvill. Sir W. Scott. 

MACHINE:  To subject to the action of machinery; to effect by aid of machinery; to print with a printing machine. 

MACHINER:  One who or operates a machine; a machinist. [R.] 

MACHINING:  Of or pertaining to the machinery of a poem; acting or used as a machine.[Obs.] Dryden. 

MACHO:  The striped mullet of California (Mugil cephalus, or Mexicanus). 

MACILENCY:  Leanness.[Obs.] Sandys. 

MACILENT:  Lean; thin. [Obs.] Bailey. 

MACINTOSH:  Same as Mackintosh. 

MACKEREL:  A pimp; also, a bawd. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

MACKEREL:  Any species of the genus Scomber, and of several related genera. They are finely formed and very active oceanic fishes. Most of them are highly prized for food.  Note: The common mackerel (Scomber scombrus), which inhabits both sides of the North Atlantic, is one of the most important food fishes. It is mottled with green and blue. The Spanish mackerel (Scomberomorus maculatus), of the American coast, is covered with bright yellow circular spots. Bull mackerel, Chub mackerel. (Zoöl.) See under Chub.  -- Frigate mackerel. See under Frigate.  -- Horse mackerel . See under Horse.  -- Mackerel bird (Zoöl.), the wryneck; -- so called because it arrives in England at the time when mackerel are in season.  -- Mackerel cock (Zoöl.), the Manx shearwater; -- so called because it precedes the appearance of the mackerel on the east coast of Ireland.  -- Mackerel guide. (Zoöl.) See Garfish (a).  -- Mackerel gull (Zoöl.) any one of several species of gull which feed upon or follow mackerel, as the kittiwake.  -- Mackerel midge (Zoöl.), a very small oceanic gadoid fish of the North Atlantic. It is about an inch and a half long and has four barbels on the upper jaw. It is now considered the young of the genus Onos, or Motella.  -- Mackerel plow, an instrument for creasing the sides of lean mackerel to improve their appearance. Knight.  -- Mackerel shark (Zoöl.), the porbeagle.  -- Mackerel sky, or Mackerel-back sky, a sky flecked with small white clouds; a cirro-cumulus. See Cloud. Mackerel sky and mare's-tails Make tall ships carry low sails. Old Rhyme.  MACKINAW BLANKET; MACKINAW Mack"i*naw blan"ket, Mack"i*naw.Etym: [From Mackinac,the State of Michigan, where blankets and other stores were distributed to the Indians.]  A thick blanket formerly in common use in the western part of the United States.  MACKINAW BOAT Mack"i*naw boat.  A flat-bottomed boat with a pointed prow and square stern, using oars or sails or both, used esp. on the upper Great Lakes and their tributaries.  MACKINAW COAT Mackinaw coat.  A short, heavy, double-breasted plaid coat, the design of which is large and striking. [Local, U. S.]  MACKINAW TROUT Mackinaw trout.  The namaycush. 

MACKINTOSH:  A waterproof outer garment; -- so called from the name of the inventor. 

MACKLE:  Same Macule. 

MACKLE:  To blur, or be blurred, in printing, as if there were a double impression. 

MACLUREA:  A genus of spiral gastropod shells, often of large size, characteristic of the lower Silurian rocks. 

MACLURIN:  See Morintannic.  MACRAME LACE Mac"ra*me lace".  A coarse lace made of twine, used especially in decorating furniture.  MACRENCEPHALIC; MACRENCEPHALOUS Mac`ren*ce*phal"ic, Mac`ren*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Macro + encephalic, encephalous.]  Having a large brain.  MACRO- Mac"ro-. Etym: [Gr. makro`s, adj.]  A combining form signifying long, large, great; as macrodiagonal, macrospore. 

MACROBIOTIC:  Long-lived. Dunglison. 

MACROBIOTICS:  The art of prolonging life. 

MACROCEPHALOUS:  Having the cotyledons of a dicotyledonous embryo confluent, and forming a large mass compared with the rest of the body. Henslow.  MACRO-CHEMISTRY Mac`ro-chem"is*try, n. Etym: [Macro- + chemistry.] (Chem.)  The science which treats of the chemical properties, actions or relations of substances in quantity; -- distinguished from micro- chemistry. 

MACROCHIRES:  A division of birds including the swifts and humming birds. So called from the length of the distal part of the wing. 

MACROCOSM:  The great world; that part of the universe which is exterior to man; -- contrasted with microcosm, or man. See Microcosm. 

MACROCOSMIC:  Of or pertaining to the macrocosm. Tylor. 

MACROCYSTIS:  An immensely long blackish seaweed of the Pacific (Macrocystis pyrifera), having numerous almond-shaped air vessels. 

MACRODACTYL:  One of a group of wading birds (Macrodactyli) having very long toes. [Written also macrodactyle.]  MACRODACTYLIC; MACRODACTYLOUS Mac`ro*dac*tyl"ic, Mac`ro*dac"tyl*ous, a. (Zoöl.)  Having long toes. 

MACRODIAGONAL:  The longer of two diagonals, as of a rhombic prism. See Crystallization. 

MACRODOME:  A dome parallel to the longer lateral axis of an orthorhombic crystal. See Dome, n., 4. 

MACRODONT:  Having large teeth.  -- n.  A macrodont animal. 

MACROFARAD:  See Megafarad. [R.] 

MACROGLOSSIA:  Enlargement or hypertrophy of the tongue. 

MACROGNATHIC:  Long-jawed. Huxley. 

MACROGRAPH:  A picture of an object as seen by the naked eye (that is, unmagnified); as, a macrograph of a metallic fracture. 

MACROGRAPHY:  Examination or study with the naked eye, as distinguished from micrography. 

MACROLOGY:  Long and tedious talk without much substance; superfluity of words. 

MACROMETER:  An instrument for determining the size or distance of inaccessible objects by means of two reflectors on a common sextant. 

MACRON:  A short, straight, horizontal mark [-], placed over vowels to denote that they are to be pronounced with a long sound; as, a, in dame; e, in seam, etc. 

MACROPETALOUS:  Having long or large petals. 

MACROPHYLLOUS:  Having long or large leaves. 

MACROPINACOID:  One of the two planes of an orthorhombic crystal which are parallel to the vertical and longer lateral (macrodiagonal) axes. 

MACROPOD:  Any one of a group of maioid crabs remarkable for the length of their legs; -- called also spider crab. 

MACROPODAL:  Having long or large feet, or a long stem. 

MACROPODIAN:  A macropod. 

MACROPODOUS:  Having long legs or feet. 

MACROPRISM:  A prism of an orthorhombic crystal between the macropinacoid and the unit prism; the corresponding pyramids are called macropyramids. 

MACROPTERES:  A division of birds; the Longipennes. 

MACROPTEROUS:  Having long wings. 

MACROPUS:  genus of marsupials including the common kangaroo. 

MACROPYRAMID:  See Macroprism.  MACROSCOPIC; MACROSCOPICAL Mac`ro*scop"ic, Mac`ro*scop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Macro- + Gr.  Visible to the unassisted eye; -- as opposed to microscopic.  -- Mac`ro*scop"ic*al*ly, adv. 

MACROSPORANGIUM:  A sporangium or conceptacle containing only large spores; -- opposed to microsporangium. Both are found in the genera Selaginella, Isoctes, and Marsilia, plants remotely allied to ferns. 

MACROSPORE:  One of the specially large spores of certain flowerless plants, as Selaginella, etc. 

MACROSPORIC:  Of or pertaining to macrospores. 

MACROTONE:  Same as Macron. 

MACROTOUS:  Large-eared.  MACROURA; MACROURAL Ma*crou"ra, n. pl., Ma*crou"ral (, a., etc. (Zoöl.)  Same as Macrura, Macrural, etc.  MACROZOOSPORE; MACROZOOESPORE Mac`ro*zo"ö*spore, n. Etym: [Macro- + zoöspore.] (Bot.)  A large motile spore having four vibratile cilia; -- found in certain green algæ. 

MACRURA:  A subdivision of decapod Crustacea, having the abdomen largely developed. It includes the lobster, prawn, shrimp, and many similar forms. Cf. Decapoda. 

MACRURAL:  Same as Macrurous. 

MACRURAN:  One of the Macrura. 

MACRUROID:  Like or pertaining to the Macrura. 

MACRUROUS:  Of or pertaining to the Macrura; having a long tail. 

MACTATION:  The act of killing a victim for sacrifice. [Obs.] 

MACTRA:  Any marine bivalve shell of the genus Mactra, and allied genera. Many species are known. Some of them are used as food, as Mactra stultorum, of Europe. See Surf clam, under Surf. 

MACULA:  A rather large spot or blotch of color. 

MACULATE:  To spot; to stain; to blur. Maculate the honor of their people. Sir T. Elyot. 

MACULATE:  Marked with spots or maculæ; blotched; hence, defiled; impure; as, most maculate thoughts. Shak. 

MACULATED:  Having spots or blotches; maculate. 

MACULATION:  The act of spotting; a spot; a blemish. Shak. 

MACULATORY:  Causing a spot or stain. T. Adams. 

MACULATURE:  , Blotting paper. [Obs.] 

MACULE:  A blur, or an appearance of a double impression, as when the paper slips a little; a mackle. 

MACULE:  To blur; especially (Print.), to blur or double an impression from type. See Mackle. 

MACULOSE:  Of or pertaining to spots upon a surface; spotted; maculate. 

MAD:  of Made. Chaucer. 

MAD:  To make mad or furious; to madden. Had I but seen thy picture in this plight, It would have madded me. Shak. 

MAD:  To be mad; to go mad; to rave. See Madding. [Archaic] Chaucer. Festus said with great voice, Paul thou maddest. Wyclif (Acts). 

MAD:  An earthworm. [Written also made.] 

MADAM:  A gentlewoman; -- an appellation or courteous form of address given to a lady, especially an elderly or a married lady; -- much used in the address, at the beginning of a letter, to a woman. The corresponding word in addressing a man is Sir. 

MADAME:  My lady; -- a French title formerly given to ladies of quality; now, in France, given to all married women. Chaucer.  MAD-APPLE Mad"-ap`ple, n. (Bot.)  See Eggplant. 

MADBRAIN:  Hot-headed; rash. Shak.  -- n.  A rash or hot-headed person. 

MADBRAINED:  Disordered in mind; hot-headed. Shak. 

MADCAP:  lord." Shak.  2. Wild; reckless. "Madcap follies" Beau. & Fl. 

MADCAP:  A person of wild behavior; an excitable, rash, violent person. Shak. 

MADDEN:  To make mad; to drive to madness; to craze; to excite violently with passion; to make very angry; to enrage. 

MADDEN:  To become mad; to act as if mad. They rave, recite, and madden round the land. Pope. 

MADDER:  A plant of the Rubia (R. tinctorum). The root is much used in dyeing red, and formerly was used in medicine. It is cultivated in France and Holland. See Rubiaceous.  Note: Madder is sometimes used in forming pigments, as lakes, etc., which receive their names from their colors; as. madder yellow. Field madder, an annual European weed (Sherardia arvensis) resembling madder.  -- Indian madder , the East Indian Rubia cordifolia, used in the East for dyeing; -- called also munjeet.  -- Wild madder, Rubia peregrina of Europe; also the Galium Mollugo, a kind of bedstraw. 

MADDERWORT:  A name proposed for any plant of the same natural order (Rubiaceæ) as the madder. 

MADDING:  Affected with madness; raging; furious.  -- Mad"ding*ly, adv. [Archaic] Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife. Gray. The madding wheels Of brazen chariots raged. Milton. 

MADDISH:  Somewhat mad. Beau. & Fl. 

MADE:  See Mad, n. 

MADE:  of Make. 

MADE:  Artificially produced; pieced together; formed by filling in; as, made ground; a made mast, in distinction from one consisting of a single spar. Made up. (a) Complete; perfect. "A made up villain." Shak. (b) Falsely devised; fabricated; as, a made up story. (c) Artificial; as, a made up figure or complexion.  MADECASS; MADECASSEE Mad"e*cass, Mad`e*cas"see, n.  A native or inhabitant of Madagascar, or Madecassee; the language of the natives of Madagascar. See Malagasy. 

MADECASSEE:  Of or pertaining to Madagascar or its inhabitants.  MADEFACTION; MADEFICATION Mad`e*fac"tion, Mad`e*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. madefacere to make wet; madere to be wet + facere to make: cf. F. madéfaction.]  The act of madefying, or making wet; the state of that which is made wet. [R.] Bacon. 

MADEFY:  To make wet or moist. [R.] 

MADEGASSY:  See Madecassee. 

MADEIRA:  A rich wine made on the Island of Madeira. A cup of Madeira, and a cold capon's leg. Shak. Madeira nut (Bot.), the European walnut; the nut of the Juglans regia.  MADEIRA VINE Ma*dei"ra vine. (Bot.)  A herbaceous climbing vine (Boussingaultia baselloides) very popular in cultivation, having shining entire leaves and racemes of small fragrant white flowers.  MADEIRA WOOD Madeira wood. (Bot.)  (a) The mahogany tree (Swietenia Mahogoni).  (b) A West Indian leguminous tree (Lysiloma Latisiliqua) the wood of which is used for boat trimming. 

MADEMOISELLE:  A marine food fish (Sciæna chrysura), of the Southern United States; -- called also yellowtail, and silver perch. 

MADGE:  Wild; crack-brained. 

MADHOUSE:  A house where insane persons are confined; an insane asylum; a bedlam. 

MADIA:  A genus of composite plants, of which one species (Madia sativa) is cultivated for the oil yielded from its seeds by pressure. This oil is sometimes used instead of olive oil for the table. 

MADID:  Wet; moist; as, a madid eye. [R.] Beaconsfield. 

MADISTERIUM:  An instrument to extract hairs. 

MADJOUN:  An intoxicating confection from the hemp plant; -- used by the Turks and Hindoos. [Written also majoun.] 

MADLY:  In a mad manner; without reason or understanding; wildly. 

MADMAN:  A man who is mad; lunatic; a crazy person. When a man mistakes his thoughts for person and things, he is mad. A madman is properly so defined. Coleridge. 

MADNEP:  The masterwort (Peucedanum Ostruthium). 

MADONNA:  A picture of the Virgin Mary (usually with the babe). The Italian painters are noted for drawing the Madonnas by their own wives or mistresses. Rymer. 

MADOQUA:  A small Abyssinian antelope (Neotragus Saltiana), about the size of a hare. 

MADRAGUE:  A large fish pound used for the capture of the tunny in the Mediterranean; also applied to the seines used for the same purpose. 

MADRAS:  A large silk-and-cotton kerchief, usually of bright colors, such as those often used by negroes for turbans.  A black woman in blue cotton gown, red-and-yellow madras turban . . . crouched against the wall. G. W. Cable. 

MADREPERL:  Mother-of-pearl. 

MADREPORA:  A genus of reef corals abundant in tropical seas. It includes than one hundred and fifty species, most of which are elegantly branched.  -- Mad`re*po"ral, a. 

MADREPORARIA:  An extensive division of Anthozoa, including most of the species that produce stony corals. See Illust. of Anthozoa.  -- Mad`re*po*ra"ri*an, a. & n. 

MADREPORE:  Any coral of the genus Madrepora; formerly, often applied to any stony coral.  MADREPORIAN; MADREPORIC Mad`re*po"ri*an, Mad`re*po"ric, a. (Zoöl.)  Resembling, or pertaining to, the genus Madrepora. Madreporic plate (Zoöl.), a perforated plate in echinoderms, through which water is admitted to the ambulacral tubes; -- called also madreporic tubercule. 

MADREPORIFORM:  Resembling a madreporian coral in form or structure. 

MADREPORITE:  A fossil coral.  2. (Zoöl.)  The madreporic plate of echinoderms. 

MADRIER:  A thick plank, used for several mechanical purposes; especially: (a) A plank to receive the mouth of a petard, with which it is applied to anything intended to be broken down. (b) A plank or beam used for supporting the earth in mines or fortifications. 

MADRIGAL:  An unaccompanied polyphonic song, in four, five, or more parts, set to secular words, but full of counterpoint and imitation, and adhering to the old church modes. Unlike the freer glee, it is best sung with several voices on a part. See Glee. 

MADRIGALER:  A madrigalist. 

MADRIGALIST:  A composer of madrigals. 

MADRILENIAN:  Of or pertaining to Madrid in Spain, or to its inhabitants.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Madrid. 

MADRINA:  An animal (usually an old mare), wearing a bell and acting as the leader of a troop of pack mules. [S. America] 

MADRO:  A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), of California, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and edible red berries, which are often called madroña apples. [Written also madroño.]  MADRONA; MADRONYA Ma*dro"ña, n. Etym: [Sp. madroño.] (Bot.)  A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), of California, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and edible red berries, which are often called madroña apples. [Written also madroño.] 

MADWORT:  A genus of cruciferous plants (Alyssum) with white or yellow flowers and rounded pods. A. maritimum is the commonly cultivated sweet alyssum, a fragrant white-flowered annual.  MAEGBOTE; MAGBOTE Mæg"bote`, Mag"bote`, n. Etym: [AS. mæg kinsman + bot compensation.] (Anglo-Saxon Law)  Compensation for the injury done by slaying a kinsman. Spelman. 

MAESTOSO:  Majestic or majestically; -- a direction to perform a passage or piece of music in a dignified manner.  MAESTRICHT MONITOR Maes"tricht mon"i*tor. Etym: [So called from Maestricht, a town in Holland.] (Paleon.)  The Mosasaurus Hofmanni. See Mosasaurus. 

MAESTRO:  A master in any art, especially in music; a composer.  MAFFIA; MAFIA Maf"fi*a, Ma"fi*a, n. [It. maffia.]  A secret society which organized in Sicily as a political organization, but is now widespread among Italians, and is used to further or protect private interests, reputedly by illegal methods.  MAFFIOSO; MAFIOSO Maf`fi*o"so, Ma`fi*o"so, n.; pl. -si (#). [It. maffioso.]  A member of the maffia. 

MAFFLE:  To stammer. [Obs.] 

MAFFLER:  A stammerer. [Obs.] 

MAGAZINE:  To store in, or as in, a magazine; to store up for use.  MAGAZINE CAMERA Magazine camera. (Photog.)  A camera in which a number of plates can be exposed without reloading. 

MAGAZINER:  One who edits or writes for a magazine. [R.] Goldsmith. 

MAGAZINING:  The act of editing, or writing for, a magazine. [Colloq.] Byron. 

MAGAZINIST:  One who edits or writes for a magazine. [R.] 

MAGBOTE:  See Mægbote. 

MAGDALA:  Designating an orange-red dyestuff obtained from naphthylamine, and called magdala red, naphthalene red, etc. 

MAGDALEN:  A reformed prostitute. 

MAGDALEON:  A medicine in the form of a roll, a esp. a roll of plaster. 

MAGDEBURG:  A city of Saxony. Magdeburg centuries, Magdeburg hemispheres. See under Century, and Hemisphere. 

MAGE:  A magician. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson. 

MAGELLANIC:  Of or pertaining to, or named from, Magellan, the navigator. Magellenic clouds (Astron.), three conspicuous nebulæ near the south pole, resembling thin white clouds. 

MAGENTA:  An aniline dye obtained as an amorphous substance having a green bronze surface color, which dissolves to a shade of red; also, the color; -- so called from Magenta, in Italy, in allusion to the battle fought there about the time the dye was discovered. Called also fuchsine, roseïne, etc. 

MAGGED:  Worn; fretted; as, a magged brace. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

MAGGIORE:  Greater, in respect to scales, intervals, etc., when used in opposition to minor; major. Moore (Encyc. of Music). 

MAGGOT:  The footless larva of any fly. See Larval.  2. A whim; an odd fancy. Hudibras. Tennyson. 

MAGGOTINESS:  State of being maggoty. 

MAGGOTISH:  Full of whims or fancies; maggoty.  MAGGOT-PIE Mag"got-pie`, n.  A magpie. [Obs.] Shak. 

MAGHET:  A name for daisies and camomiles of several kinds. 

MAGI:  A caste of priests, philosophers, and magicians, among the ancient Persians; hence, any holy men or sages of the East. The inspired Magi from the Orient came. Sandys. 

MAGIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Magi. 

MAGIAN:  One of the Magi, or priests of the Zoroastrian religion in Persia; an adherent of the Zoroastrian religion.  -- Ma"gi*an*ism, n. 

MAGIC:  A comprehensive name for all of the pretended arts which claim to produce effects by the assistance of supernatural beings, or departed spirits, or by a mastery of secret forces in nature attained by a study of occult science, including enchantment, conjuration, witchcraft, sorcery, necromancy, incantation, etc. An appearance made by some magic. Chaucer. Celestial magic, a supposed supernatural power which gave to spirits a kind of dominion over the planets, and to the planets an influence over men.  -- Natural magic, the art of employing the powers of nature to produce effects apparently supernatural.  -- Superstitious, or Geotic, magic, the invocation of devils or demons, involving the supposition of some tacit or express agreement between them and human beings.  Syn.  -- Sorcery; witchcraft; necromancy; conjuration; enchantment.  MAGIC; MAGICAL Mag"ic, Mag"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. magicus, Gr. magique. See Magi.]  1. Pertaining to the hidden wisdom supposed to be possessed by the Magi; relating to the occult powers of nature, and the producing of effects by their agency.  2. Performed by, or proceeding from, occult and superhuman agencies; done by, or seemingly done by, enchantment or sorcery. Hence: Seemingly requiring more than human power; imposing or startling in performance; producing effects which seem supernatural or very extraordinary; having extraordinary properties; as, a magic lantern; a magic square or circle. The painter's magic skill. Cowper.  Note: Although with certain words magic is used more than magical, -- as, magic circle, magic square, magic wand, -- we may in general say magic or magical; as, a magic or magical effect; a magic or magical influence, etc. But when the adjective is predicative, magical, and not magic, is used; as, the effect was magical. Magic circle, a series of concentric circles containing the numbers 12 to 75 in eight radii, and having somewhat similar properties to the magic square.  -- Magic humming bird (Zoöl.), a Mexican humming bird (Iache magica) , having white downy thing tufts.  -- Magic lantern. See Lantern.  -- Magic square, numbers so disposed in parallel and equal rows in the form of a square, that each row, taken vertically, horizontally, or diagonally, shall give the same sum, the same product, or an harmonical series, according as the numbers taken are in arithmetical, geometrical, or harmonical progression.  -- Magic wand, a wand used by a magician in performing feats of magic. 

MAGICALLY:  In a magical manner; by magic, or as if by magic. 

MAGICIAN:  One skilled in magic; one who practices the black art; an enchanter; a necromancer; a sorcerer or sorceress; a conjurer.  MAGILP; MAGILPH Ma*gilp", Ma*gilph", n. (Paint.)  See Megilp. 

MAGISTER:  Master; sir; -- a title of the Middle Ages, given to a person in authority, or to one having a license from a university to teach philosophy and the liberal arts. 

MAGISTERIAL:  Pertaining to, produced by, or of the nature of, magistery. See Magistery, 2.  Syn.  -- Authoritative; stately; august; pompous; dignified; lofty; commanding; imperious; lordly; proud; haughty; domineering; despotic; dogmatical; arrogant.  -- Magisterial, Dogmatical, Arrogant. One who is magisterial assumes the air of a master toward his pupils; one who is dogmatical lays down his positions in a tone of authority or dictation; one who is arrogant in sults others by an undue assumption of superiority. Those who have long been teachers sometimes acquire, unconsciously, a manner which borders too much on the magisterial, and may be unjustly construed as dogmatical, or even arrogant. 

MAGISTERIALITY:  Magisterialness; authoritativeness. [R.] Fuller. 

MAGISTERIALLY:  In a magisterial manner. 

MAGISTERIALNESS:  The quality or state of being magisterial. 

MAGISTERY:  A precipitate; a fine substance deposited by precipitation; -- applied in old chemistry to certain white precipitates from metallic solutions; as, magistery of bismuth. Ure. 

MAGISTRAL:  Formulated extemporaneously, or for a special case; -- opposed to officinal, and said of prescriptions and medicines. Dunglison. Magistral line (Fort.), the guiding line, or outline, or outline, by which the form of the work is determined. It is usually the crest line of the parapet in fieldworks, or the top line of the escarp in permanent fortifications. 

MAGISTRAL:  A sovereign medicine or remedy. [Obs.] Burton.  2. (Fort.)  A magistral line.  3. (Metal.)  Powdered copper pyrites used in the amalgamation of ores of silver, as at the Spanish mines of Mexico and South America. 

MAGISTRALITY:  Magisterialness; arbitrary dogmatism. Bacon. 

MAGISTRALLY:  In a magistral manner. Abp. Bramhall. 

MAGISTRATE:  A person clothed with power as a public civil officer; a public civil officer invested with the executive government, or some branch of it. "All Christian rulers and magistrates." Book of Com. Prayer. Of magistrates some also are supreme, in whom the sovereign power of the state resides; others are subordinate. Blackstone.  MAGISTRATIC; MAGISTRATICAL Mag`is*trat"ic, Mag`is*trat"ic*al, a.  Of, pertaining to, or proceeding from, a magistrate; having the authority of a magistrate. Jer. Taylor. 

MAGISTRATURE:  Magistracy. [Obs.] 

MAGMA:  The amorphous or homogenous matrix or ground mass, as distinguished from well-defined crystals; as, the magma of porphyry.  MAGNA CHARTA Mag"na Char"ta. Etym: [L., great charter.]  1. The great Charter, so called, obtained by the English barons from King John, A. D. 1215. This name is also given to the charter granted to the people of England in the ninth year of Henry III., and confirmed by Edward I.  2. Hence, a fundamental constitution which guaranties rights and privileges. 

MAGNALITY:  A great act or event; a great attainment. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

MAGNANIMITY:  The quality of being magnanimous; greatness of mind; elevation or dignity of soul; that quality or combination of qualities, in character, which enables one to encounter danger and trouble with tranquility and firmness, to disdain injustice, meanness and revenge, and to act and sacrifice for noble objects. 

MAGNANIMOUSLY:  In a magnanimous manner; with greatness of mind.  MAGNASE BLACK Mag"nase black`. (Paint.)  A black pigment which dries rapidly when mixed with oil, and is of intense body. Fairholt. 

MAGNES:  Magnet. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MAGNESIA:  A light earthy white substance, consisting of magnesium oxide, and obtained by heating magnesium hydrate or carbonate, or by burning magnesium. It has a slightly alkaline reaction, and is used in medicine as a mild antacid laxative. See Magnesium. Magnesia alba Etym: [L.] (Med. Chem.), a bulky white amorphous substance, consisting of a hydrous basic carbonate of magnesium, and used as a mild cathartic. 

MAGNESIAN:  Pertaining to, characterized by, or containing, magnesia or magnesium. Magnesian limestone. (Min.) See Dolomite. 

MAGNESIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, magnesium; as, magnesic oxide. 

MAGNESITE:  Native magnesium carbonate occurring in white compact or granular masses, and also in rhombohedral crystals. 

MAGNESIUM:  A light silver-white metallic element, malleable and ductile, quite permanent in dry air but tarnishing in moist air. It burns, forming (the oxide) magnesia, with the production of a blinding light (the so-called magnesium light) which is used in signaling, in pyrotechny, or in photography where a strong actinic illuminant is required. Its compounds occur abundantly, as in dolomite, talc, meerschaum, etc. Symbol Mg. Atomic weight, 24.4. Specific gravity, 1.75. Magnesium sulphate. (Chem.) Same as Epsom salts. 

MAGNET:  A bar or mass of steel or iron to which the peculiar properties of the loadstone have been imparted; -- called, in distinction from the loadstone, an artificial magnet.  Note: An artificial magnet, produced by the action of a voltaic or electrical battery, is called an electro-magnet. Field magnet (Physics & Elec.), a magnet used for producing and maintaining a magnetic field; -- used especially of the stationary or exciting magnet of a dynamo or electromotor in distinction from that of the moving portion or armature.  MAGNETIC; MAGNETICAL Mag*net"ic, Mag*net"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. magneticus: cf. F. magnétique.]  1. Pertaining to the magnet; possessing the properties of the magnet, or corresponding properties; as, a magnetic bar of iron; a magnetic needle.  2. Of or pertaining to, or characterized by,, the earth's magnetism; as, the magnetic north; the magnetic meridian.  3. Capable of becoming a magnet; susceptible to magnetism; as, the magnetic metals.  4. Endowed with extraordinary personal power to excite the feelings and to win the affections; attractive; inducing attachment. She that had all magnetic force alone. Donne.  5. Having, susceptible to, or induced by, animal magnetism, so called; as, a magnetic sleep. See Magnetism. Magnetic amplitude, attraction, dip, induction, etc. See under Amplitude, Attraction, etc.  -- Magnetic battery, a combination of bar or horseshoe magnets with the like poles adjacent, so as to act together with great power.  -- Magnetic compensator, a contrivance connected with a ship's compass for compensating or neutralizing the effect of the iron of the ship upon the needle.  -- Magnetic curves, curves indicating lines of magnetic force, as in the arrangement of iron filings between the poles of a powerful magnet.  -- Magnetic elements. (a) (Chem. Physics) Those elements, as iron, nickel, cobalt, chromium, manganese, etc., which are capable or becoming magnetic. (b) (Physics) In respect to terrestrial magnetism, the declination, inclination, and intensity. (c) See under Element.  -- Magnetic equator, the line around the equatorial parts of the earth at which there is no dip, the dipping needle being horizontal.  -- Magnetic field, or Field of magnetic force, any space through which magnet exerts its influence.  -- Magnetic fluid, the hypothetical fluid whose existence was formerly assumed in the explanations of the phenomena of magnetism.  -- Magnetic iron, or Magnetic iron ore. (Min.) Same as Magnetite.  -- Magnetic needle, a slender bar of steel, magnetized and suspended at its center on a sharp-pointed pivot, or by a delicate fiber, so that it may take freely the direction of the magnetic meridian. It constitutes the essential part of a compass, such as the mariner's and the surveyor's.  -- Magnetic poles, the two points in the opposite polar regions of the earth at which the direction of the dipping needle is vertical.  -- Magnetic pyrites. See Pyrrhotite.  -- Magnetic storm (Terrestrial Physics), a disturbance of the earth's magnetic force characterized by great and sudden changes.  -- Magnetic telegraph, a telegraph acting by means of a magnet. See Telegraph. 

MAGNETICALLY:  By or as by, magnetism. 

MAGNETICALNESS:  Quality of being magnetic. 

MAGNETICIAN:  One versed in the science of magnetism; a magnetist. 

MAGNETICNESS:  Magneticalness. [Obs.] 

MAGNETICS:  The science of magnetism. 

MAGNETIFEROUS:  Producing or conducting magnetism. 

MAGNETISM:  The property, quality, or state, of being magnetic; the manifestation of the force in nature which is seen in a magnet.  2. The science which treats of magnetic phenomena.  3. Power of attraction; power to excite the feelings and to gain the affections. "By the magnetism of interest our affections are irresistibly attracted." Glanvill. Animal magnetism, a force, more or less analogous to magnetism, which, it has been alleged, is produced in animal tissues, and passes from one body to another with or without actual contact. The existence of such a force, and its potentiality for the cure of disease, were asserted by Mesmer in 1775. His theories and methods were afterwards called mesmerism, a name which has been popularly applied to theories and claims not put forward by Mesmer himself. See Mesmerism, Biology, Od, Hypnotism.  -- Terrestrial magnetism, the magnetic force exerted by the earth, and recognized by its effect upon magnetized needles and bars. 

MAGNETIST:  One versed in magnetism. 

MAGNETITE:  An oxide of iron (Fe3O4) occurring in isometric crystals, also massive, of a black color and metallic luster. It is readily attracted by a magnet and sometimes possesses polarity, being then called loadstone. It is an important iron ore. Called also magnetic iron. 

MAGNETIZABLE:  Capable of magnetized. 

MAGNETIZATION:  The act of magnetizing, or the state of being magnetized. 

MAGNETIZEE:  A person subjected to the influence of animal magnetism. [R.] 

MAGNETIZER:  One who, or that which, imparts magnetism.  MAGNETO- Mag"net*o-. Etym: [See Magnet.]  A prefix meaning pertaining to, produced by, or in some way connected with, magnetism.  MAGNETO-ELECTRIC; MAGNETO-ELECTRICAL Mag`net*o-e*lec"tric, Mag`net*o-e*lec"tric*al, a. (Physics)  Pertaining to, or characterized by, electricity by the action of magnets; as, magneto-electric induction. Magneto-electric machine, a form of dynamo-electric machine in which the field is maintained by permanent steel magnets instead of electro-magnets.  MAGNETO-ELECTRICITY Mag`net*o-e`lec*tric"i*ty, n.  1. Electricity evolved by the action of magnets.  2. (Physics)  That branch of science which treats of the development of electricity by the action of magnets; -- the counterpart of electro- magnetism. 

MAGNETOGRAPH:  An automatic instrument for registering, by photography or otherwise, the states and variations of any of the terrestrial magnetic elements. 

MAGNETOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the intensity of magnetic forces; also, less frequently, an instrument for determining any of the terrestrial magnetic elements, as the dip and declination. 

MAGNETOMETRIC:  Pertaining to, or employed in, the measurement of magnetic forces; obtained by means of a magnetometer; as, magnetometric instruments; magnetometric measurements. 

MAGNETOMOTIVE:  Pertaining to, or designating, a force producing magnetic flux, analogous to electromotive force, and equal to the magnetic flux multiplied by the magnetic reluctance. 

MAGNETOMOTOR:  A voltaic series of two or more large plates, producing a great quantity of electricity of low tension, and hence adapted to the exhibition of electro-magnetic phenomena. [R.] 

MAGNETOTHERAPY:  The treatment of disease by the application of magnets to the surface of the body. 

MAGNIFIABLE:  Such as can be magnified, or extolled.  MAGNIFIC; MAGNIFICAL Mag*nif"ic, Mag*nif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. magnificus; magnus great + facere to make: cf. F. magnifique. See Magnitude, Fact. and cf. Magnificent.]  Grand; splendid; illustrious; magnificent. [Obs.] 1 Chron. xxii. 5. "Thy magnific deeds." Milton.  -- Mag*nif"ic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

MAGNIFICAT:  The song of the Virgin Mary, Luke i. 46; -- so called because it commences with this word in the Vulgate. 

MAGNIFICATE:  To magnify or extol. [Obs.] Marston. 

MAGNIFICATION:  The act of magnifying; enlargement; exaggeration. [R.] 

MAGNIFICENCE:  The act of doing what magnificent; the state or quality of being magnificent. Acts xix. 27. "Then cometh magnificence." Chaucer. And, for the heaven's wide circuit, let it speak The Maker's high magnificence, who built so spacious. Milton. The noblest monuments of Roman magnificence. Eustace. 

MAGNIFICENTLY:  In a Magnificent manner. 

MAGNIFIER:  One who, or that which, magnifies. 

MAGNILOQUENCE:  The quality of being magniloquent; pompous discourse; grandiloquence. 

MAGNILOQUENT:  Speaking pompously; using swelling discourse; bombastic; tumid in style; grandiloquent.  -- Mag*nil"o*quent*ly, adv. 

MAGNILOQUOUS:  Magniloquent. [Obs.] 

MAGNITUDE:  That which has one or more of the three dimensions, length, breadth, and thickness.  3. Anything of which greater or less can be predicated, as time, weight, force, and the like.  4. Greatness; grandeur. "With plain, heroic magnitude of mind." Milton.  5. Greatness, in reference to influence or effect; importance; as, an affair of magnitude. The magnitude of his designs. Bp. Horsley. Apparent magnitude (Opt.), the angular breadth of an object viewed as measured by the angle which it subtends at the eye of the observer; - - called also apparent diameter.  -- Magnitude of a star (Astron.), the rank of a star with respect to brightness. About twenty very bright stars are said to be of first magnitude, the stars of the sixth magnitude being just visible to the naked eye. Telescopic stars are classified down to the twelfth magnitude or lower. The scale of the magnitudes is quite arbitrary, but by means of photometers, the classification has been made to tenths of a magnitude. 

MAGNOLIA:  A genus of American and Asiatic trees, with aromatic bark and large sweet-scented whitish or reddish flowers.  Note: Magnolia grandiflora has coriaceous shining leaves and very fragrant blossoms. It is common from North Carolina to Florida and Texas, and is one of the most magnificent trees of the American forest. The sweet bay (M. glauca)is a small tree found sparingly as far north as Cape Ann. Other American species are M. Umbrella, M. macrophylla, M. Fraseri, M. acuminata, and M. cordata. M. conspicua and M. purpurea are cultivated shrubs or trees from Eastern Asia. M. Campbellii, of India, has rose-colored or crimson flowers. Magnolia warbler (Zoöl.), a beautiful North American wood warbler (Dendroica maculosa). The rump and under parts are bright yellow; the breast and belly are spotted with black; the under tail coverts are white; the crown is ash. 

MAGNOLIACEOUS:  Pertaining to a natural order (Magnoliaceæ) of trees of which the magnolia, the tulip tree, and the star anise are examples. 

MAGNUM:  A bone of the carpus at the base of the third metacarpal bone. 

MAGOT:  The Barbary ape.  MAGOT-PIE Mag"ot-pie`, n.  A magpie. [Obs.] Shak. 

MAGPIE:  Any one of numerous species of the genus Pica and related genera, allied to the jays, but having a long graduated tail.  Note: The common European magpie (Pica pica, or P. caudata) is a black and white noisy and mischievous bird. It can be taught to speak. The American magpie (P. Hudsonica) is very similar. The yellow-belled magpie (P. Nuttalli) inhabits California. The blue magpie (Cyanopolius Cooki) inhabits Spain. Other allied species are found in Asia. The Tasmanian and Australian magpies are crow shrikes, as the white magpie (Gymnorhina organicum), the black magpie (Strepera fuliginosa), and the Australian magpie (Cracticus picatus). Magpie lark (Zoöl.), a common Australian bird (Grallina picata), conspicuously marked with black and white; -- called also little magpie.  -- Magpie moth (Zoöl.), a black and white European geometrid moth (Abraxas grossulariata); the harlequin moth. Its larva feeds on currant and gooseberry bushes. 

MAGUARI:  A South American stork (Euxenara maguari), having a forked tail. 

MAGUEY:  The century plant, a species of Agave (A. Americana). See Agave. 

MAGYAR:  One of the dominant people of Hungary, allied to the Finns; a Hungarian.  2. The language of the Magyars. 

MAHA:  A kind of baboon; the wanderoo.  MAHABARATA; MAHABHARATAM Ma*ha*ba"ra*ta, Ma*ha*bha"ra*tam, n. Etym: [Skr. mahabharata.]  A celebrated epic poem of the Hindoos. It is of great length, and is chiefly devoted to the history of a civil war between two dynasties of ancient India. 

MAHALED:  (Bot.) A cherry tree (Prunus Mahaleb) of Southern Europe. The wood is prized by cabinetmakers, the twigs are used for pipe stems, the flowers and leaves yield a perfume, and from the fruit a violet dye and a fermented liquor (like kirschwasser) are prepared. 

MAHARAJAH:  A sovereign prince in India; -- a title given also to other persons of high rank. 

MAHARIF:  An African antelope (Hippotragus Bakeri). Its face is striped with black and white. 

MAHARMAH:  A muslin wrapper for the head and the lower part of the face, worn by Turkish and Armenian women when they go abroad. 

MAHATMA:  One of a class of sages, or "adepts," reputed to have knowledge and powers of a higher order than those of ordinary men. -- Ma*hat"ma*ism (#), n. 

MAHDI:  Among Mohammedans, the last imam or leader of the faithful. The Sunni, the largest sect of the Mohammedans, believe that he is yet to appear.  Note: The title has been taken by several persons in countries where Mohammedanism prevails, -- notably by Mohammad Ahmed, who overran the Egyptian Sudan, and in 1885 captured Khartum, his soldiers killing General Gordon, an Englishman, who was then the Egyptian governor of the region. 

MAHDIISM:  See Mahdism. 

MAHDISM:  Belief in the coming of the Mahdi; fanatical devotion to the cause of the Mahdi or a pretender to that title. -- Mah"dist (#), n.  Mahdism has proved the most shameful and terrible instrument of bloodshed and oppression which the modern world has ever witnessed. E. N. Bennett.  MAHL-STICK Mahl"-stick`, n.  See Maul-stick. 

MAHOE:  A name given to several malvaceous trees (species of Hibiscus, Ochroma, etc.), and to their strong fibrous inner bark, which is used for strings and cordage. 

MAHOGANY:  A large tree of the genus Swietenia (S. Mahogoni), found in tropical America.  Note: Several other trees, with wood more or less like mahogany, are called by this name; as, African mahogany (Khaya Senegalensis), Australian mahogany (Eucalyptus marginatus), Bastard mahogany (Batonia apetala of the West Indies), Indian mahogany (Cedrela Toona of Bengal, and trees of the genera Soymida and Chukrassia), Madeira mahogany (Persea Indica), Mountain mahogany, the black or cherry birch (Betula lenta), also the several species of Cercocarpus of California and the Rocky Mountains.  2. The wood of the Swietenia Mahogoni. It is of a reddish brown color, beautifully veined, very hard, and susceptible of a fine polish. It is used in the manufacture of furniture.  3. A table made of mahogany wood. [Colloq.] To be under the mahogany, to be so drunk as to have fallen under the table. [Eng.] -- To put one's legs under some one's mahogany, to dine with him. [Slang] 

MAHOLI:  A South African lemur (Galago maholi), having very large ears. [Written also moholi.]  MAHOMEDAN; MAHOMETAN Ma*hom"ed*an, Ma*hom"et*an, n.  See Mohammedan. 

MAHOMETANISM:  See Mohammedanism. 

MAHOMETANIZE:  To convert to the religion of Mohammed; to Mohammedanize. 

MAHOMETISM:  See Mohammedanism. 

MAHOMETIST:  A Mohammedan. [R.] 

MAHOMETRY:  Mohammedanism. [Obs.] 

MAHONE:  A large Turkish ship. Crabb. 

MAHONIA:  The Oregon grape, a species of barberry (Berberis Aquifolium), often cultivated for its hollylike foliage.  MAHON STOCK Ma*hon" stock`. (Bot.)  An annual cruciferous plant with reddish purple or white flowers (Malcolmia maritima). It is called in England Virginia stock, but the plant comes from the Mediterranean. 

MAHOOHOO:  The African white two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus simus). 

MAHORI:  One of the dark race inhabiting principally the islands of Eastern Polynesia. Also used adjectively. 

MAHOUND:  A contemptuous name for Mohammed; hence, an evil spirit; a devil. [Obs.] Who's this, my mahound cousin Beau. & Fl. 

MAHOUT:  The keeper and driver of an elephant. [East Indies] 

MAHOVO:  A device for saving power in stopping and starting a railroad car, by means of a heavy fly wheel. 

MAHRATI:  The language of the Mahrattas; the language spoken in the Deccan and Concan. [Written also Marathi.] 

MAHRATTA:  One of a numerous people inhabiting the southwestern part of India. Also, the language of the Mahrattas; Mahrati. It is closely allied to Sanskrit.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to the Mahrattas. [Written also Maratha.]  MAHUMETAN; MAHUMETANISM Ma*hu"met*an, Ma*hu"met*an*ism, n.  See Mohammedan, Mohammedanism.  MAHWA TREE Mah"wa tree`. (Bot.)  An East Indian sapotaceous tree (Bassia latifolia, and also B. butyracea), whose timber is used for wagon wheels, and the flowers for food and in preparing an intoxicating drink. It is one of the butter trees. The oil, known as mahwa and yallah, is obtained from the kernels of the fruit. 

MAIAN:  Any spider crab of the genus Maia, or family Maiadæ. 

MAID:  The female of a ray or skate, esp. of the gray skate (Raia batis), and of the thornback (R. clavata). [Prov. Eng.] Fair maid. (Zoöl.) See under Fair, a.  -- Maid of honor, a female attendant of a queen or royal princess; - - usually of noble family, and having to perform only nominal or honorary duties.  -- Old maid. See under Old. 

MAIDAN:  In various parts of Asia, an open space, as for military exercises, or for a market place; an open grassy tract; an esplanade.  A gallop on the green maidan. M. Crawford. 

MAIDEN:  To act coyly like a maiden; -- with it as an indefinite object. For had I maiden'd it, as many use. Loath for to grant, but loather to refuse. Bp. Hall. 

MAIDENHAIR:  A fern of the genus Adiantum (A. pedatum), having very slender graceful stalks. It is common in the United States, and is sometimes used in medicine. The name is also applied to other species of the same genus, as to the Venus-hair. Maiden grass, the smaller quaking grass.  -- Maiden tree. See Ginkgo. 

MAIDENLIKE:  Like a maiden; modest; coy. 

MAIDENLINESS:  The quality of being maidenly; the behavior that becomes a maid; modesty; gentleness. 

MAIDENLY:  Like a maid; suiting a maid; maiden-like; gentle, modest, reserved. Must you be blushing . . . What a maidenly man-at-arms are you become ! Shak. 

MAIDENLY:  In a maidenlike manner. "Maidenly demure." Skelton. 

MAIDENSHIP:  Maidenhood. [Obs.] Fuller. 

MAIDHOOD:  Maidenhood. Shak. 

MAIDPALE:  Pale, like a sick girl. Shak. 

MAIDSERVANT:  A female servant.  MAID'S HAIR Maid's" hair`. (Bot.)  The yellow bedstraw (Galium verum).  MAIEUTIC; MAIEUTICAL Ma*ieu"tic, Ma*ieu"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  1. Serving to assist childbirth. Cudworth.  2. Fig. : Aiding, or tending to, the definition and interpretation of thoughts or language. Payne. 

MAIEUTICS:  The art of giving birth (i. e., clearness and conviction) to ideas, which are conceived as struggling for birth. Payne. 

MAIGER:  The meagre. 

MAIGRE:  Belonging to a fast day or fast; as, a maigre day. Walpole. Maigre food (R. C. Ch.), food allowed to be eaten on fast days. 

MAIHEM:  See Maim, and Mayhem. 

MAIKEL:  A South American carnivore of the genus Conepatus, allied to the skunk, but larger, and having a longer snout. The tail is not bushy. 

MAIKONG:  A South American wild dog (Canis cancrivorus); the crab-eating dog. 

MAIL:  A spot. [Obs.] 

MAIL:  A contrivance of interlinked rings, for rubbing off the loose hemp on lines and white cordage.  4. (Zoöl.)  Any hard protective covering of an animal, as the scales and plates of reptiles, shell of a lobster, etc. We . . . strip the lobster of his scarlet mail. Gay. 

MAIL:  To deliver into the custody of the postoffice officials, or place in a government letter box, for transmission by mail; to post; as, to mail a letter. [U. S.]  Note: In the United States to mail and to post are both in common use; as, to mail or post a letter. In England post is the commoner usage. 

MAILABLE:  Admissible lawfully into the mail. [U.S.] 

MAILCLAD:  Protected by a coat of mail; clad in armor. Sir W. Scott. 

MAILED:  Protected by an external coat, or covering, of scales or plates. 

MAILED:  Spotted; speckled. 

MAILING:  A farm. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.  MAIL-SHELL Mail"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  A chiton. 

MAIMEDLY:  In a maimed manner. 

MAIMEDNESS:  State of being maimed. Bolton. 

MAIN:  Very extremely; as, main heavy. "I'm main dry." Foote. [Obs. or Low] 

MAINE:  One of the New England States. Maine law, any law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of intoxicating beverages, esp. one resembling that enacted in the State of Maine.  MAIN-GAUCHE Main`-gauche" (mâN`gosh"), n. Etym: [F., the left hand.] (Ancient Armor)  The dagger held in the left hand, while the rapier is held in the right; -- used to parry thrusts of the adversary's rapier.  MAIN-HAMPER Main"-ham`per, n. Etym: [F. main hand (see Main a hand at dice) + E. hamper.]  A hamper to be carried in the hand; a hand basket used in carrying grapes to the press. 

MAINLAND:  The continent; the principal land; -- opposed to island, or peninsula. Dryden. After the two wayfarers had crossed from the peninsula to the mainland. Hawthorne. 

MAINLY:  Very strongly; mightily; to a great degree. [Obs.] Bacon. Shak. 

MAINLY:  Principally; chiefly. 

MAINMAST:  The principal mast in a ship or other vessel. 

MAINOR:  A thing stolen found on the person of the thief.  Note: A thief was said to be "taken with the mainor," when he was taken with the thing stolen upon him, that is, in his hands. Wharton. Bouvier. 

MAINPERNABLE:  Capable of being admitted to give surety by mainpernors; able to be mainprised. 

MAINPERNOR:  A surety, under the old writ of mainprise, for a prisoner's appearance in court at a day.  Note: Mainpernors differ from bail in that a man's bail may imprison or surrender him before the stipulated day of appearance; mainpernors can do neither; they are bound to produce him to answer all charges whatsoever. Blackstone. 

MAINPIN:  A kingbolt. 

MAINPRISE:  To suffer to go at large, on his finding sureties, or mainpernors, for his appearance at a day; -- said of a prisoner. 

MAINS:  The farm attached to a mansion house. [Scot.] 

MAINSAIL:  The principal sail in a ship or other vessel. [They] hoised up the mainsail to the wind. Acts xxvii. 40.  Note: The mainsail of a ship is extended upon a yard attached to the mainmast, and that of a sloop or schooner upon the boom. 

MAINSHEET:  One of the ropes by which the mainsail is hauled aft and trimmed. 

MAINSPRING:  The principal or most important spring in a piece of mechanism, especially the moving spring of a watch or clock or the spring in a gunlock which impels the hammer. Hence: The chief or most powerful motive; the efficient cause of action. 

MAINSTAY:  The stay extending from the foot of the foremast to the maintop.  2. Main support; principal dependence. The great mainstay of the Church. Buckle. 

MAINSWEAR:  To swear falsely. [Obs.] Blount. 

MAINTAINABLE:  That maybe maintained. 

MAINTAINER:  One who maintains. 

MAINTAINOR:  One who, not being interested, maintains a cause depending between others, by furnishing money, etc., to either party. Bouvier. Wharton. 

MAINTENANCE:  An officious or unlawful intermeddling in a cause depending between others, by assisting either party with money or means to carry it on. See Champerty. Wharton. Cap of maintenance. See under Cap. 

MAINTOP:  The platform about the head of the mainmast in square-rigged vessels.  MAIN YARD Main" yard`. (Naut.)  The yard on which the mainsail is extended, supported by the mainmast. 

MAIOID:  Of or pertaining to the genus Maia, or family Maiadeæ. 

MAISTER:  Master. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

MAISTER:  Principal; chief. [Obs.] Chaucer.  MAISTRE; MAISTRIE; MAISTRY Mais"tre, Mais"trie, Mais"try, n.  Mastery; superiority; art. See Mastery. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MAISTRESS:  Mistress. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MAITHES:  Same as Maghet. 

MAIZE:  A large species of American grass of the genus Zea (Z. Mays), widely cultivated as a forage and food plant; Indian corn. Also, its seed, growing on cobs, and used as food for men animals. Maize eater (Zoöl.), a South American bird of the genus Pseudoleistes, allied to the troupials.  -- Maize yellow, a delicate pale yellow.  MAJESTATIC; MAJESTATAL Maj`es*tat"ic, Maj`es*tat"*al, a.  Majestic. [Obs.] E. Pocock. Dr. J. Scott. 

MAJESTIC:  Possessing or exhibiting majesty; of august dignity, stateliness, or imposing grandeur; lofty; noble; grand. "The majestic world." Shak. "Tethys'grave majestic pace." Milton. The least portions must be of the epic kind; all must be grave, majestic, and sublime. Dryden .  Syn.  -- August; splendid; grand; sublime; magnificent; imperial; regal; pompous; stately; lofty; dignified; elevated. 

MAJESTICAL:  Majestic. Cowley. An older architecture, greater, cunninger, more majestical. M. Arnold. -- Ma*jes"tic*al*ly, adv.  -- Ma*jes"tic*al*ness, n. 

MAJESTICNESS:  The quality or state of being majestic. Oldenburg. 

MAJESTY:  The dignity and authority of sovereign power; quality or state which inspires awe or reverence; grandeur; exalted dignity, whether proceeding from rank, character, or bearing; imposing loftiness; stateliness; -- usually applied to the rank and dignity of sovereigns. The Lord reigneth; he is clothed with majesty. Ps. xciii. 1. No sovereign has ever represented the majesty of great state with more dignity and grace. Macaulay.  2. Hence, used with the possessive pronoun, the title of an emperor, king or queen; -- in this sense taking a plural; as, their majesties attended the concert. In all the public writs which he [Emperor Charles V.] now issued as King of Spain, he assumed the title of Majesty, and required it from his subjects as a mark of respect. Before that time all the monarchs of Europe were satisfied with the appellation of Highness or Grace. Robertson.  3. Dignity; elevation of manner or style. Dryden. 

MAJOLICA:  A kind of pottery, with opaque glazing and showy, which reached its greatest perfection in Italy in the 16th century.  Note: The term is said to be derived from Majorca, which was an early seat of this manufacture. Heyse. 

MAJOR:  Greater by a semitone, either in interval or in difference of pitch from another tone. Major axis (Geom.), the greater axis. See Focus, n., 2.  -- Major key (Mus.), a key in which one and two, two and three, four and five, five and six and seven, make major seconds, and three and four, and seven and eight, make minor seconds.  -- Major offense (Law), an offense of a greater degree which contains a lesser offense, as murder and robbery include assault.  -- Major premise (Logic), that premise of a syllogism which contains the major term.  -- Major scale (Mus.), the natural diatonic scale, which has semitones between the third and fourth, and seventh and fourth, and seventh and eighth degrees; the scale of the major mode, of which the third is major. See Scale, and Diatonic.  -- Major second (Mus.), a second between whose tones is a difference in pitch of a step.  -- Major sixth (Mus.), a sixth of four steps and a half step. In major keys the third and sixth from the key tone are major. Major keys and intervals, as distinguished from minors, are more cheerful.  -- Major term (Logic), that term of a syllogism which forms the predicate of the conclusion.  -- Major third (Mus.), a third of two steps. 

MAJOR:  An officer next in rank above a captain and next below a lieutenant colonel; the lowest field officer.  2. (Law)  A person of full age.  3. (Logic)  That premise which contains the major term. It its the first proposition of a regular syllogism; as: No unholy person is qualified for happiness in heaven [the major]. Every man in his natural state is unholy [minor]. Therefore, no man in his natural state is qualified for happiness in heaven [conclusion or inference].  Note: In hypothetical syllogisms, the hypothetical premise is called the major.  4. Etym: [LL. See Major.]  A mayor. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MAJORAT:  Property, landed or funded, so attached to a title of honor as to descend with it. 

MAJORATE:  The office or rank of a major. 

MAJORATE:  To augment; to increase. [Obs.] Howell. 

MAJORATION:  Increase; enlargement. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MAJORCAN:  Of or pertaining to Majorca.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Majorca.  MAJOR-DOMO Ma`jor-do"mo, n. Etym: [Sp. mayordomo, or It. maggiordomo; both fr. LL. majordomus; L. major greater + domus house.]  A man who has authority to act, within certain limits, as master of the house; a steward; also, a chief minister or officer.  MAJOR GENERAL Ma"jor gen"er*al  . An officer of the army holding a rank next above that of brigadier general and next below that of lieutenant general, and who usually commands a division or a corps. 

MAJORITY:  Ancestors; ancestry. [Obs.]  4. The amount or number by which one aggregate exceeds all other aggregates with which it is contrasted; especially, the number by which the votes for a successful candidate exceed those for all other candidates; as, he is elected by a majority of five hundred votes. See Plurality. To go over to, or To join, the majority, to die. 

MAJORSHIP:  The office of major. 

MAJOUN:  See Madjoun. 

MAJUSCULAE:  Capital letters, as found in manuscripts of the sixth century and earlier. 

MAJUSCULE:  A capital letter; especially, one used in ancient manuscripts. See Majusculæ. Majuscule writing, writing composed wholly of capital letters, especially the style which prevailed in Europe from the third to the sixth century. 

MAKABLE:  Capable of being made. 

MAKARON:  See Macaroon, 2. [Obs.] 

MAKE:  A companion; a mate; often, a husband or a wife. [Obs.] For in this world no woman is Worthy to be my make. Chaucer. 

MAKE:  Structure, texture, constitution of parts; construction; shape; form. It our perfection of so frail a make As every plot can undermine and shake Dryden. On the make,bent upon making great profits; greedy of gain. [Low, U. S.]  MAKE AND BREAK Make and break. (Elec.)  Any apparatus for making and breaking an electric circuit; a circuit breaker. 

MAKEBATE:  One who excites contentions and quarrels. [Obs.]  MAKE-BELIEF Make"-be*lief`, n.  A feigning to believe; make believe. J. H. Newman.  MAKE-BELIEVE Make"-be*lieve`, n.  A feigning to believe, as in the play of children; a mere pretense; a fiction; an invention. "Childlike make-believe." Tylor. To forswear self-delusion and make-believe. M. Arnold.  MAKE-BELIEVE Make"-be*lieve`, a.  Feigned; insincere. "Make-believe reverence." G. Eliot. 

MAKED:  Made. Chaucer.  MAKE-GAME Make"-game`, n.  An object of ridicule; a butt. Godwin. 

MAKELESS:  A peacemaker. [R.] Shak. 

MAKER:  The person who makes a promissory note.  3. One who writes verses; a poet. [Obs.]  Note: "The Greeks named the poet poihth`s, which name, as the most excellent, hath gone through other languages. It cometh of this word poiei^n, make; wherein, I know not whether by luck or wisdom, we Englishmen have met well the Greeks in calling him a maker." Sir P. Sidney. 

MAKESHIFT:  That with which one makes shift; a temporary expedient. James Mill. I am not a model clergyman, only a decent makeshift. G. Eliot.  MAKE-UP Make"-up`, n.  The way in which the parts of anything are put together; often, the way in which an actor is dressed, painted, etc., in personating a character. The unthinking masses are necessarily teleological in their mental make-up. L. F. Ward. 

MAKEWEIGHT:  That which is thrown into a scale to make weight; something of little account added to supply a deficiency or fill a gap. 

MAKI:  A lemur. See Lemur. 

MAKING:  A tool somewhat like a chisel with a groove in it, used by calkers of ships to finish the seams after the oakum has been driven in.  MAKING-UP Mak"ing-up`, n.  1. The act of bringing spirits to a certain degree of strength, called proof.  2. The act of becoming reconciled or friendly.  MAL- Mal-  . A prefix in composition denoting ill,or evil, F. male, adv., fr. malus, bad, ill. In some words it has the form male-, as in malediction, malevolent. See Malice.  Note: The formmale- is chiefly used in cases where the c, either alone or with other letters, is pronounced as a separate syllable, as in malediction, malefactor, maleficent, etc. Where this is not the case, as in malfeasance or male-feasance, malformation or male- formation, etc., as also where the word to which it is prefixed commences with a vowel, as in maladministration, etc., the form malis to be preferred, and is the one commonly employed. 

MALA:  Evils; wrongs; offenses against right and law. Mala in se Etym: [L.] (Law), offenses which are such from their own nature, at common law, irrespective of statute.  -- Mala prohibita Etym: [L.] (Law), offenses prohibited by statute, as distinguished from mala in se, which are offenses at common law. 

MALABAR:  A region in the western part of the Peninsula of India, between the mountains and the sea. Malabar nut (Bot.), the seed of an East Indian acanthaceous shrub, the Adhatoda Vasica, sometimes used medicinally. 

MALACATUNE:  See Melocoton. 

MALACCA:  A town and district upon the seacoast of the Malay Peninsula. Malacca cane (Bot.), a cane obtained from a species of palm of the genus Calamus (C. Scipionum), and of a brown color, often mottled. The plant is a native of Cochin China, Sumatra, and Malays. 

MALACHITE:  Native hydrous carbonate of copper, usually occurring in green mammillary masses with concentric fibrous structure.  Note: Green malachite, or malachite proper, admits of a high polish, and is sometimes used for ornamental work. Blue malachite, or azurite, is a related species of a deep blue color. Malachite green. See Emerald green, under Green, n. 

MALACISSANT:  Softening; relaxing. [Obs.] 

MALACISSATION:  The act of making soft or supple. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MALACOBDELLA:  A genus of nemertean worms, parasitic in the gill cavity of clams and other bivalves. They have a large posterior sucker, like that of a leech. See Illust. of Bdellomorpha. 

MALACODERM:  One of a tribe of beetles (Malacodermata), with a soft and flexible body, as the fireflies. 

MALACOLITE:  A variety of pyroxene. 

MALACOLOGIST:  One versed in the science of malacology. 

MALACOLOGY:  The science which relates to the structure and habits of mollusks. 

MALACOPODA:  A class of air-breathing Arthropoda; -- called also Protracheata, and Onychophora.  Note: They somewhat resemble myriapods, and have from seventeen to thirty-three pairs of short, imperfectly jointed legs, two pairs of simple jaws, and a pair of antennæ. The trancheæ are connected with numerous spiracles scattered over the surface of the body. Peripatus is the only known genus. See Peripatus. 

MALACOPTERYGIAN:  One of the Malacopterygii. 

MALACOPTERYGII:  An order of fishes in which the fin rays, except the anterior ray of the pectoral and dorsal fins, are closely jointed, and not spiny. It includes the carp, pike, salmon, shad, etc. Called also Malacopteri. 

MALACOPTERYGIOUS:  Belonging to the Malacopterygii. 

MALACOSTEON:  A peculiar disease of the bones, in consequence of which they become softened and capable of being bent without breaking. 

MALACOSTOMOUS:  Having soft jaws without teeth, as certain fishes. 

MALACOSTRACA:  A subclass of Crustacea, including Arthrostraca and Thoracostraca, or all those higher than the Entomostraca. 

MALACOSTRACAN:  One of the Malacostraca. 

MALACOSTRACOLOGY:  That branch of zoölogical science which relates to the crustaceans; -- called also carcinology. 

MALACOSTRACOUS:  Belonging to the Malacostraca. 

MALACOTOON:  See Melocoton. 

MALACOZOA:  An extensive group of Invertebrata, including the Mollusca, Brachiopoda, and Bryozoa. Called also Malacozoaria. 

MALACOZOIC:  Of or pertaining to the Malacozoa. 

MALADDRESS:  Bad address; an awkward, tactless, or offensive way of accosting one or talking with one. W. D. Howells. 

MALADJUSTMENT:  A bad adjustment. 

MALADMINISTRATION:  Bad administration; bad management of any business, especially of public affairs. [Written also maleadministration.] 

MALADROIT:  Of a quality opposed to adroitness; clumsy; awkward; unskillful.  -- Mal"a*droit`ly, adv.  -- Mal`a*droit"ness, n. 

MALAGA:  A city and a province of Spain, on the Mediterranean. Hence, Malaga grapes, Malaga raisins, Malaga wines. 

MALAGASH:  Same as Malagasy. 

MALAGASY:  A native or natives of Madagascar; also (sing.), the language. 

MALAISE:  An indefinite feeling of uneasiness, or of being sick or ill at ease. 

MALAMATE:  A salt of malamic acid. 

MALAMBO:  A yellowish aromatic bark, used in medicine and perfumery, said to be from the South American shrub Croton Malambo. 

MALAMETHANE:  A white crystalline substance forming the ethyl salt of malamic acid. 

MALAMIC:  Of or pertaining an acid intermediate between malic acid and malamide, and known only by its salts. 

MALAMIDE:  The acid amide derived from malic acid, as a white crystalline substance metameric with asparagine. 

MALANDERS:  A scurfy eruption in the bend of the knee of the fore leg of a horse. See Sallenders. [Written also mallenders.] 

MALAPERT:  Bold; forward; impudent; saucy; pert. Shak.  -- n.  A malapert person. Are you growing malapert! Will you force me to make use of my authority Dryden. -- Mal"a*pert`ly, adv.  -- Mal"a*pert`ness, n. 

MALAPROPISM:  A grotesque misuse of a word; a word so used. 

MALAPROPOS:  Unseasonable or unseasonably; unsuitable or unsuitably. 

MALAPTERURUS:  A genus of African siluroid fishes, including the electric catfishes. See Electric cat, under Electric. 

MALAR:  Of or pertaining to the region of the cheek bone, or to the malar bone; jugal. 

MALAR:  The cheek bone, which forms a part of the lower edge of the orbit. 

MALARIA:  A morbid condition produced by exhalations from decaying vegetable matter in contact with moisture, giving rise to fever and ague and many other symptoms characterized by their tendency to recur at definite and usually uniform intervals.  MALARIAL; MALARIAN; MALARIOUS Ma*la"ri*al, Ma*la"ri*an, Ma*la"ri*ous, a.  Of or pertaining, to or infected by, malaria. Malarial fever (Med.), a fever produced by malaria, and characterized by the occurrence of chills, fever, and sweating in distinct paroxysms, At intervals of definite and often uniform duration, in which these symptoms are wholly absent (intermittent fever), or only partially so (remittent fever); fever and ague; chills and fever.  MALARIA PARASITE Malaria parasite.  Any of several minute protozoans of the genus Plasmodium (syn. Hæmatozoön) which in their adult condition live in the tissues of mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles (which see) and when transferred to the blood of man, by the bite of the mosquito, produce malaria. The young parasites, or sporozoites, enter the red blood corpuscles, growing at their expense, undergoing sporulation, and finally destroying the corpuscles, thus liberating in the blood plasma an immense number of small spores called merozoites. An indefinite but not ultimated number of such generations may follow, but if meanwhile the host is bitten by a mosquito, the parasites develop into gametes in the stomach of the insect. These conjugate, the zygote thus produced divides, forming spores, and eventually sporozoites, which, penetrating to the salivary glands of the mosquito, may be introduced into a new host. The attacks of the disease coincide with the dissolution of the corpuscles and liberation of the spores and products of growth of the parasites into the blood plasma. Several species of the parasite are distinguished, as P. vivax, producing tertian malaria; P. malariæ, quartan malaria; and P. (subgenus Laverania) falciferum, the malarial fever of summer and autumn common in the tropics. 

MALASHAGANAY:  The fresh-water drumfish (Haploidonotus grunniens). 

MALATE:  A salt of malic acid.  MALAX; MALAXATE Ma"lax, Ma*lax"ate, v. t. Etym: [L. malaxare, malaxatum, cf. Gr. malaxer.]  To soften by kneading or stirring with some thinner substance. [R.] 

MALAXATION:  The act of softening by mixing with a thinner substance; the formation of ingredients into a mass for pills or plasters. [R.] 

MALAXATOR:  One who, or that which, malaxates; esp., a machine for grinding, kneading, or stirring into a pasty or doughy mass. [R.] 

MALAY:  One of a race of a brown or copper complexion in the Malay Peninsula and the western islands of the Indian Archipelago.  MALAY; MALAYAN Ma*lay", Ma*lay"an, a.  Of or pertaining to the Malays or their country.  -- n.  The Malay language. Malay apple (Bot.), a myrtaceous tree (Eugenia Malaccensis) common in India; also, its applelike fruit. 

MALAYALAM:  The name given to one the cultivated Dravidian languages, closely related to the Tamil. Yule. 

MALBROUCK:  A West African arboreal monkey (Cercopithecus cynosurus). 

MALCONFORMATION:  Imperfect, disproportionate, or abnormal formation; ill form; disproportion of parts. 

MALCONTENT:  discontented; uneasy; dissatisfied; especially, dissatisfied with the government. [Written also malecontent.] The famous malcontent earl of Leicester. Milner. 

MALCONTENT:  One who discontented; especially, a discontented subject of a government; one who express his discontent by words or overt acts. Spenser. Berkeley. 

MALCONTENTED:  Malcontent.  -- Mal`con*tent"ed*ly, adv.  -- Mal`con*tent"ed*ness, n. 

MALDANIAN:  Any species of marine annelids of the genus Maldane, or family Maldanidæ. They have a slender, round body, and make tubes in the sand or mud.  MALE- Male-  . See Mal-. 

MALE:  Evil; wicked; bad. [Obs.] Marston. 

MALE:  Same as Mail, a bag. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MALE:  Capable of producing fertilization, but not of bearing fruit; - - said of stamens and antheridia, and of the plants, or parts of plants, which bear them.  3. Suitable to the male sex; characteristic or suggestive of a male; masculine; as, male courage.  4. Consisting of males; as, a male choir.  5. (Mech.)  Adapted for entering another corresponding piece (the female piece) which is hollow and which it fits; as, a male gauge, for gauging the size or shape of a hole; a male screw, etc. Male berry (Bot.), a kind of coffee. See Pea berry.  -- Male fern (Bot.), a fern of the genus Aspidium (A. Filixmas), used in medicine as an anthelmintic, esp. against the tapeworm. Aspidium marginale in America, and A. athamanticum in South Africa, are used as good substitutes for the male fern in medical practice. See Female fern, under Female.  -- Male rhyme, a rhyme in which only the last syllables agree, as laid, afraid, dismayed. See Female rhyme, under Female.  -- Male screw (Mech.), a screw having threads upon its exterior which enter the grooves upon the inside of a corresponding nut or female screw.  -- Male thread, the thread of a male screw. 

MALE:  A plant bearing only staminate flowers. 

MALEADMINISTRATION:  Maladministration. 

MALEATE:  A salt of maleic acid. 

MALEBRANCHISM:  The philosophical system of Malebranche, an eminent French metaphysician. The fundamental doctrine of his system is that the mind can not have knowledge of anything external to itself except in its relation to God. 

MALECONFORMATION:  Malconformation. 

MALECONTENT:  Malcontent. 

MALEDICENCY:  Evil speaking. [Obs.] Atterbury. 

MALEDICENT:  Speaking reproachfully; slanderous. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 

MALEDICT:  Accursed; abominable. [R.] 

MALEDICTION:  A proclaiming of evil against some one; a cursing; imprecation; a curse or execration; -- opposed to benediction. No malediction falls from his tongue. Longfellow.  Syn.  -- Cursing; curse; execration; imprecation; denunciation; anathema.  -- Malediction, Curse, Imprecation, Execration. Malediction is the most general term, denoting bitter reproach, or wishes and predictions of evil. Curse implies the desire or threat of evil, declared upon oath or in the most solemn manner. Imprecation is literally the praying down of evil upon a person. Execration is literally a putting under the ban of excommunication, a curse which excludes from the kingdom of God. In ordinary usage, the last three words describe profane swearing, execration being the strongest. 

MALEFACTION:  A crime; an offense; an evil deed. [R.] Shak. 

MALEFACTRESS:  A female malefactor. Hawthorne. 

MALEFEASANCE:  See Malfeasance. 

MALEFIC:  Doing mischief; causing harm or evil; nefarious; hurtful. [R.] Chaucer. 

MALEFICE:  An evil deed; artifice; enchantment. [Obs.] 

MALEFICENCE:  Evil doing, esp. to others. 

MALEFICENT:  Doing evil to others; harmful; mischievous. 

MALEFICIAL:  Injurious. Fuller. 

MALEFICIATE:  To bewitch; to harm. [Obs.] Burton. 

MALEFICIATION:  A bewitching. [Obs.] 

MALEFICIENCE:  The doing of evil, harm, or mischief. 

MALEFICIENT:  Doing evil, harm, or mischief. 

MALEFORMATION:  See Malformation. 

MALEIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the ethylene series, metameric with fumaric acid and obtained by heating malic acid. 

MALENGINE:  Evil machination; guile; deceit. [Obs.] Gower. 

MALEO:  A bird of Celebes (megacephalon maleo), allied to the brush turkey. It makes mounds in which to lay its eggs.  MALE-ODOR Male-o"dor, n.  See Malodor. 

MALEPRACTICE:  See Malpractice.  MALE-SPIRITED Male"-spir`it*ed, a.  Having the spirit of a male; vigorous; courageous. [R.] B. Jonson. 

MALET:  A little bag or budget. [Obs.] Shelton. 

MALETREAT:  See Maltreat. 

MALEVOLENCE:  The quality or state of being malevolent; evil disposition toward another; inclination to injure others; ill will. See Synonym of Malice. 

MALEVOLENT:  Wishing evil; disposed to injure others; rejoicing in another's misfortune.  Syn.  -- Ill-disposed; envious; mischievous; evil-minded; spiteful; malicious; malignant; rancorous. 

MALEVOLENTLY:  In a malevolent manner. 

MALEVOLOUS:  Malevolent. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton. 

MALEXECUTION:  Bad execution. D. Webster. 

MALEYL:  A hypothetical radical derived from maleic acid. 

MALFEASANCE:  The doing of an act which a person ought not to do; evil conduct; an illegal deed. [Written also malefeasance.] 

MALFORMATION:  Ill formation; irregular or anomalous formation; abnormal or wrong conformation or structure. 

MALGRACIOUS:  Not graceful; displeasing. [Obs.] Gower. 

MALGRE:  See Mauger. 

MALIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, apples; as, malic acid. Malic acid, a hydroxy acid obtained as a substance which is sirupy or crystallized with difficulty, and has a strong but pleasant sour taste. It occurs in many fruits, as in green apples, currants, etc. It is levorotatory or dextrorotatory according to the temperature and concentration. An artificial variety is a derivative of succinic acid, but has no action on polarized light, and thus malic acid is a remarkable case of physical isomerism. 

MALICE:  Any wicked or mischievous intention of the mind; a depraved inclination to mischief; an intention to vex, annoy, or injure another person, or to do a wrongful act without just cause or cause or excuse; a wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others; willfulness. Malice aforethought or prepense, malice previously and deliberately entertained.  Syn.  -- Spite; ill will; malevolence; grudge; pique; bitterness; animosity; malignity; maliciousness; rancor; virulence. See Spite.  -- Malevolence, Malignity, Malignancy. Malice is a stronger word than malevolence, which may imply only a desire that evil may befall another, while malice desires, and perhaps intends, to bring it about. Malignity is intense and deepseated malice. It implies a natural delight in hating and wronging others. One who is malignant must be both malevolent and malicious; but a man may be malicious without being malignant. Proud tyrants who maliciously destroy And ride o'er ruins with malignant joy. Somerville. in some connections, malignity seems rather more pertinently applied to a radical depravity of nature, and malignancy to indications of this depravity, in temper and conduct in particular instances. Cogan. 

MALICE:  To regard with extreme ill will. [Obs.] 

MALICHO:  Mischief. [Obs.] Shak. 

MALICIOUS:  With wicked or mischievous intentions or motives; wrongful and done intentionally without just cause or excuse; as, a malicious act. Malicious abandonment, the desertion of a wife or husband without just cause. Burrill.  -- Malicious mischief (Law), malicious injury to the property of another; -- an offense at common law. Wharton.  -- Malicious prosecution or arrest (Law), a wanton prosecution or arrest, by regular process in a civil or criminal proceeding, without probable cause. Bouvier.  Syn.  -- Ill-disposed; evil-minded; mischievous; envious; malevolent; invidious; spiteful; bitter; malignant; rancorous; malign.  -- Ma*li"cious*ly, adv.  -- Ma*li"cious*ness, n. 

MALIGN:  To treat with malice; to show hatred toward; to abuse; to wrong; to injure. [Obs.] The people practice what mischiefs and villainies they will against private men, whom they malign by stealing their goods, or murdering them. Spenser.  2. To speak great evil of; to traduce; to defame; to slander; to vilify; to asperse. To be envied and shot at; to be maligned standing, and to be despised falling. South. 

MALIGN:  To entertain malice. [Obs.]  MALIGNANCE; MALIGNANCY Ma*lig"nance, Ma*lig"nan*cy , n. Etym: [See Malignant.]  1. The state or quality of being malignant; extreme malevolence; bitter enmity; malice; as, malignancy of heart.  2. Unfavorableness; evil nature. The malignancy of my fate might perhaps distemner yours. Shak.  3. (Med.)  Virulence; tendency to a fatal issue; as, the malignancy of an ulcer or of a fever.  4. The state of being a malignant.  Syn.  -- Malice; malevolence; malignity. See Malice. 

MALIGNANT:  Tending to produce death; threatening a fatal issue; virulent; as, malignant diphtheria. Malignant pustule (Med.), a very contagious disease, transmitted to man from animals, characterized by the formation, at the point of reception of the virus, of a vesicle or pustule which first enlarges and then breaks down into an unhealthy ulcer. It is marked by profound exhaustion and usually fatal. Called also charbon, and sometimes, improperly, anthrax. 

MALIGNANT:  One of the adherents of Charles L. or Charles LL.; -- so called by the opposite party. 

MALIGNANTLY:  In a malignant manner. 

MALIGNER:  One who maligns. 

MALIGNIFY:  To make malign or malignant. [R.] "A strong faith malignified." Southey. 

MALIGNLY:  In a malign manner; with malignity. 

MALINGER:  To act the part of a malingerer; to feign illness or inability. 

MALINGERER:  In the army, a soldier who feigns himself sick, or who induces or protracts an illness, in order to avoid doing his duty; hence, in general, one who shirks his duty by pretending illness or inability. 

MALINGERY:  The spirit or practices of a malingerer; malingering. 

MALISON:  Malediction; curse; execration. [Poetic] God's malison on his head who this gainsays. Sir W. Scott. 

MALKIN:  A mop or sponge attached to a jointed staff for swabbing out a cannon. 

MALL:  To beat with a mall; to beat with something heavy; to bruise; to maul. 

MALL:  Formerly, among Teutonic nations, a meeting of the notables of a state for the transaction of public business, such meeting being a modification of the ancient popular assembly. Hence: (a) A court of justice. (b) A place where justice is administered. (c) A place where public meetings are held. Councils, which had been as frequent as diets or malls, ceased. Milman. 

MALLARD:  A drake; the male of Anas boschas.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large wild duck (Anas boschas) inhabiting both America and Europe. The domestic duck has descended from this species. Called also greenhead. 

MALLEABILITY:  The quality or state of being malleable; -- opposed to friability and brittleness. Locke. 

MALLEABLE:  Capable of being extended or shaped by beating with a hammer, or by the pressure of rollers; -- applied to metals. Malleable iron, iron that is capable of extension or of being shaped under the hammer; decarbonized cast iron. See under Iron.  -- Malleable iron castings, articles cast from pig iron and made malleable by heating then for several days in the presence of some substance, as hematite, which deprives the cast iron of some of its carbon. 

MALLEABLEIZE:  To make malleable. 

MALLEABLENESS:  Quality of being malleable. 

MALLEAL:  Pertaining to the malleus. 

MALLEATE:  To hammer; to beat into a plate or leaf. 

MALLEATION:  The act or process of beating into a plate, sheet, or leaf, as a metal; extension by beating. 

MALLECHO:  Same as Malicho.  MALLEE BIRD Mal*lee" bird`. (Zoöl.) Etym: [From native name.]  The leipoa. See Leipoa.  MALLEMOCK; MALLEMOKE Mal"le*mock, Mal"le*moke, n. (Zoöl.)  See Mollemoke. 

MALLENDERS:  Same as Malanders. 

MALLEOLAR:  Of or pertaining to the malleolus; in the region of the malleoli of the ankle joint. 

MALLEOLUS:  A projection at the distal end of each bone of the leg at the ankle joint. The malleolus of the tibia is the internal projection, that of the fibula the external.  2. " A layer, " a shoot partly buried in the ground, and there cut halfway through. 

MALLET:  A small maul with a short handle, -- used esp. for driving a tool, as a chisel or the like; also, a light beetle with a long handle, -- used in playing croquet. 

MALLEUS:  The outermost of the three small auditory bones, ossicles; the hammer. It is attached to the tympanic membrane by a long process, the handle or manubrium. See Illust. of Far.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the hard lateral pieces of the mastax of Rotifera. See Mastax.  3. (Zoöl.)  A genus of bivalve shells; the hammer shell. 

MALLOPHAGA:  An extensive group of insects which are parasitic on birds and mammals, and feed on the feathers and hair; -- called also bird lice. See Bird louse, under Bird. 

MALLOTUS:  A genus of small Arctic fishes. One American species, the capelin (Mallotus villosus), is extensively used as bait for cod.  MALLOW; MALLOWS Mal"low, Mal"lows, n. Etym: [OE. malwe, AS. mealwe, fr. L. malva, akin to Gr. mala`chh; cf. mala`ssein to soften, malako`s soft. Named either from its softening or relaxing properties, or from its soft downy leaves. Cf. Mauve, Malachite.] (Bot.)  A genus of plants (Malva) having mucilaginous qualities. See Malvaceous.  Note: The flowers of the common mallow (M. sylvestris) are used in medicine. The dwarf mallow (M. rotundifolia) is a common weed, and its flattened, dick-shaped fruits are called cheeses by children. Tree mallow (M. Mauritiana and Lavatera arborea), musk mallow (M. moschata), rose mallow or hollyhock, and curled mallow (M. crispa), are less commonly seen. Indian mallow. See Abutilon.  -- Jew's mallow, a plant (Corchorus olitorius) used as a pot herb by the Jews of Egypt and Syria.  -- Marsh mallow. See under Marsh. 

MALLOWWORT:  Any plant of the order Malvaceæ.  MALM; MALMBRICK Malm, Malm"brick`, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. mealm sand.]  A kind of brick of a light brown or yellowish color, made of sand, clay, and chalk. 

MALMA:  A spotted trout (Salvelinus malma), inhabiting Northern America, west of the Rocky Mountains; -- called also Dolly Varden trout, bull trout, red-spotted trout, and golet. 

MALMAG:  The tarsius, or spectral lemur. 

MALMSEY:  A kind of sweet wine from Crete, the Canary Islands, etc. Shak. 

MALNUTRITION:  Faulty or imperfect nutrition. 

MALOBSERVATION:  Erroneous observation. J. S Mill. 

MALODOR:  An Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling.  -- Mal*o"dor*ous*ness. n. Carlyle. 

MALODOROUS:  Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling. -- Mal*o"dor*ous*ness. n. Carlyle. [1913 Webster] 

MALONATE:  At salt of malonic acid. 

MALONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid produced artifically as a white crystalline substance, CH2.(CO2H)2, and so called because obtained by the oxidation of malic acid. 

MALONYL:  A hydrocarbon radical, CH2.(CO)2, from malonic acid. 

MALPAIS:  The rough surface of a congealed lava stream. [Southwestern U. S.] 

MALPIGHIA:  A genus of tropical American shrubs with opposite leaves and small white or reddish flowers. The drupes of Malpighia urens are eaten under the name of Barbadoes cherries. 

MALPIGHIACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of tropical trees and shrubs (Malpighiaceæ), some of them climbing plants, and their stems forming many of the curious lianes of South American forests. 

MALPIGHIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Marcello Malpighi, an Italian anatomist of the 17th century. Malhighian capsules or corpuscles, the globular dilatations, containing the glomeruli or Malpighian tufts, at the extremities of the urinary tubules of the kidney. Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen, masses of adenoid tissue connected with branches of the splenic artery. 

MALPOSITION:  A wrong position. 

MALPRACTICE:  Evil practice; illegal or immoral conduct; practice contrary to established rules; specifically, the treatment of a case by a surgeon or physician in a manner which is contrary to accepted rules and productive of unfavorable results. [Written also malepractice.] 

MALT:  Barley or other grain, steeped in water and dried in a kiln, thus forcing germination until the saccharine principle has been evolved. It is used in brewing and in the distillation of whisky. 

MALT:  Relating to, containing, or made with, malt. Malt liquor, an alcoholic liquor, as beer, ale, porter, etc., prepared by fermenting an infusion of malt.  -- Malt dust, fine particles of malt, or of the grain used in making malt; -used as a fertilizer. " Malt dust consists chiefly of the infant radicle separated from the grain." Sir H. Davy.  -- Malt floor, a floor for drying malt.  -- Malt house, or Malthouse, a house in which malt is made.  -- Malt kiln, a heated chamber for drying malt. 

MALT:  To make into malt; as, to malt barley. 

MALT:  To become malt; also, to make grain into malt. Mortimer. 

MALTALENT:  Ill will; malice. [Obs.] Rom. of R. Spenser. 

MALTESE:  Of or pertaining to Malta or to its inhabitants.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or inhabitant of Malta; the people of Malta. Maltese cat (Zoöl.), a mouse-colored variety of the domestic cat.  -- Maltese cross. See Illust. 5, of Cross.  -- Maltese dog (Zoöl.), a breed of small terriers, having long silky white hair. The breed originated in Malta. 

MALTHUSIAN:  Of or pertaining to the political economist, the Rev. T. R. Malthus, or conforming to his views; as, Malthusian theories.  Note: Malthus held that population tends to increase faster than its means of subsistence can be made to do, and hence that the lower classes must necessarily suffer more or less from lack of food, unless an increase of population be checked by prudential restraint or otherwise. 

MALTHUSIAN:  A follower of Malthus. 

MALTHUSIANISM:  The system of Malthusian doctrines relating to population.  MALTIN; MALTINE Malt"in, Malt"ine, n. (Physiol. Chem.)  The fermentative principle of malt; malt diastase; also, a name given to various medicinal preparations made from or containing malt. 

MALTING:  The process of making, or of becoming malt. 

MALTMAN:  A man whose occupation is to make malt. 

MALTONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, maltose; specif., designating an acid called also gluconic or dextronic acid. See Gluconic. 

MALTOSE:  A crystalline sugar formed from starch by the action of distance of malt, and the amylolytic ferment of saliva and pancreatic juice. It resembles dextrose, but rotates the plane of polarized light further to the right and possesses a lower cupric oxide reducing power. 

MALTREAT:  To treat ill; to abuse; to treat roughly. 

MALTREATMENT:  Ill treatment; ill usage; abuse. 

MALTSTER:  A maltman. Swift. 

MALTWORM:  A tippler. [R.] Shak. 

MALTY:  Consisting, or like, malt. Dickens. 

MALUM:  An evil. See Mala. 

MALVACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Malvaceæ), of which the mallow is the type. The cotton plant, hollyhock, and abutilon are of this order, and the baobab and the silk-cotton trees are now referred to it. 

MALVERSATION:  Evil conduct; fraudulent practices; misbehavior, corruption, or extortion in office. 

MALVESIE:  Malmsey wine. See Malmsey. " A jub of malvesye." Chaucer. 

MAM:  Mamma. 

MAM:  Mamma. 

MAMA:  See Mamma. 

MAMALUKE:  Same as Mameluke. 

MAMELON:  A rounded hillock; a rounded elevation or protuberance. Westmin. Rev. 

MAMELUCO:  A child born of a white father and Indian mother. [S. Amer.] 

MAMELUKE:  One of a body of mounted soldiers recruited from slaves converted to Mohammedanism, who, during several centuries, had more or less control of the government of Egypt, until exterminated or dispersed by Mehemet Ali in 1811. 

MAMILLATED:  See Mammillated. 

MAMMA:  Mother; -- word of tenderness and familiarity. [Written also mama.] Tell tales papa and mamma. Swift. 

MAMMA:  A glandular organ for secreting milk, characteristic of all mammals, but usually rudimentary in the male; a mammary gland; a breast; under; bag. 

MAMMAL:  One of the Mammalia. Age of mammals. See under Age, n., 8. 

MAMMALIA:  The highest class of Vertebrata. The young are nourished for a time by milk, or an analogous fluid, secreted by the mammary glands of the mother.  Note: Mammalia are divided into threes subclasses; --I. Placentalia. This subclass embraces all the higher orders, including man. In these the fetus is attached to the uterus by a placenta. II. Marsupialia. In these no placenta is formed, and the young, which are born at an early state of development, are carried for a time attached to the teats, and usually protected by a marsupial pouch. The opossum, kangaroo, wombat, and koala are examples. III. Monotremata. In this group, which includes the genera Echidna and Ornithorhynchus, the female lays large eggs resembling those of a bird or lizard, and the young, which are hatched like those of birds, are nourished by a watery secretion from the imperfectly developed mammæ. 

MAMMALIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Mammalia or mammals. 

MAMMALIFEROUS:  Containing mammalian remains; -- said of certain strata. 

MAMMALOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to mammalogy. 

MAMMALOGIST:  One versed in mammalogy. 

MAMMALOGY:  The science which relates to mammals or the Mammalia. See Mammalia. 

MAMMARY:  Of or pertaining to the mammæ or breasts; as, the mammary arteries and veins. 

MAMMEE:  A fruit tree of tropical America, belonging to the genus Mammea (M. Americana); also, its fruit. The latter is large, covered with a thick, tough ring, and contains a bright yellow pulp of a pleasant taste and fragrant scent. It is often called mammee apple. 

MAMMER:  To hesitate; to mutter doubtfully. [Obs.] 

MAMMET:  An idol; a puppet; a doll. [Obs.] Selden. Shak. 

MAMMETRY:  See Mawmetry. [Obs.] 

MAMMIFER:  A mammal. See Mammalia. 

MAMMIFEROUS:  Having breasts; of, pertaining to, or derived from, the Mammalia. 

MAMMIFORM:  Having the form of a mamma (breast) or mammæ. 

MAMMILLA:  The nipple. 

MAMMILLARY:  Composed of convex convex concretions, somewhat resembling the breasts in form; studded with small mammiform protuberances.  MAMMILLATE; MAMMILLATED Mam"mil*late, Mam"mil*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Mammilla.]  1. Having small nipples, or small protuberances like nipples or mammæ.  2. (Zoöl.)  Bounded like a nipple; -- said of the apex of some shells. 

MAMMILLIFORM:  Having the form of a mammilla. 

MAMMILLOID:  Like a mammilla or nipple; mammilliform. 

MAMMOCK:  A shapeless piece; a fragment. [Obs.] 

MAMMOCK:  To tear to pieces. [Obs.] Milton. 

MAMMODIS:  Coarse plain India muslins. 

MAMMOLOGY:  Mastology. See Mammalogy. 

MAMMON:  Riches; wealth; the god of riches; riches, personified. Ye can not serve God and Mammon. Matt. vi. 24. 

MAMMONISH:  Actuated or prompted by a devotion to money getting or the service of Mammon. Carlyle. 

MAMMONISM:  Devotion to the pursuit of wealth; worldliness. Carlyle. 

MAMMONIST:  A mammonite. 

MAMMONITE:  One devoted to the acquisition of wealth or the service of Mammon. C. Kingsley. 

MAMMONIZATION:  The process of making mammonish; the state of being under the influence of mammonism. 

MAMMONIZE:  To make mammonish. 

MAMMOSE:  Having the form of the breast; breast-shaped. 

MAMMOTH:  An extinct, hairy, maned elephant (Elephas primigenius), of enormous size, remains of which are found in the northern parts of both continents. The last of the race, in Europe, were coeval with prehistoric man.  Note: Several specimens have been found in Siberia preserved entire, with the flesh and hair remaining. They were imbedded in the ice cliffs at a remote period, and became exposed by the melting of the ice. 

MAMMOTH:  Resembling the mammoth in size; very large; gigantic; as, a mammoth ox. 

MAMMOTHREPT:  A child brought up by its grandmother; a spoiled child. [R.] O, you are a more mammothrept in judgment. B. Jonson. 

MAMMY:  A child's name for mamma, mother. 

MAMZER:  A person born of relations between whom marriage was forbidden by the Mosaic law; a bastard. Deut. xxiii. 2 (Douay version). 

MANABLE:  Marriageable.[Obs.] 

MANACE:  Same as Menace. [Obs.] 

MANACLE:  A handcuff; a shackle for the hand or wrist; -- usually in the plural. Doctrine unto fools is as fetters on the feet, and like manacles on the right hand. Ecclus. xxi. 19. 

MANACLE:  To put handcuffs or other fastening upon, for confining the hands; to shackle; to confine; to restrain from the use of the limbs or natural powers. Is it thus you use this monarch, to manacle and shackle him hand and foot Arbuthnot. 

MANAGE:  The handling or government of anything, but esp. of a horse; management; administration. See Manege. [Obs.] Young men, in the conduct and manage of actions, embrace more than they can hold. Bacon. Down, down I come; like glistering Phaëthon Wanting the manage of unruly jades. Shak. The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl. Shak.  Note: This word, in its limited sense of management of a horse, has been displaced by manege; in its more general meaning, by management. 

MANAGE:  To direct affairs; to carry on business or affairs; to administer. Leave them to manage for thee. Dryden . 

MANAGEABILITY:  The state or quality of being manageable; manageableness. 

MANAGEABLE:  Such as can be managed or used; suffering control; governable; tractable; subservient; as, a manageable horse.  Syn.  -- Governable; tractable; controllable; docile.  -- Man"age*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Man"age*a*bly, adv. 

MANAGELESS:  Unmanageable.[R.] 

MANAGERIAL:  Of or pertaining to management or a manager; as, managerial qualities. "Managerial responsibility." C. Bronté. 

MANAGERSHIP:  The office or position of a manager. 

MANAKIN:  Any one of numerous small birds belonging to Pipra, Manacus, and other genera of the family Pipridæ. They are mostly natives of Central and South America. some are bright-colored, and others have the wings and tail curiously ornamented. The name is sometimes applied to related birds of other families. 

MANAKIN:  A dwarf. See Manikin. Shak. 

MANATEE:  Any species of Trichechus, a genus of sirenians; -- called alsosea cow. [Written also manaty, manati.]  Note: One species (Trichechus Senegalensis) inhabits the west coast of Africa; another (T. Americanus) inhabits the east coast of South America, and the West-Indies. The Florida manatee (T. latirostris) is by some considered a distinct species, by others it is thought to be a variety of T. Americanus. It sometimes becomes fifteen feet or more in length, and lives both in fresh and salt water. It is hunted for its oil and flesh. 

MANATION:  The act of issuing or flowing out. [Obs.] 

MANBIRD:  An aviator. [Colloq.] 

MANBOTE:  A sum paid to a lord as a pecuniary compensation for killing his man (that is, his vassal, servant, or tenant). Spelman. 

MANCA:  See Mancus. 

MANCHE:  A sleeve. [Obs.] 

MANCHET:  Fine white bread; a loaf of fine bread. [Archaic] Bacon. Tennyson. 

MANCHINEEL:  A euphorbiaceous tree (Hippomane Mancinella) of tropical America, having a poisonous and blistering milky juice, and poisonous acrid fruit somewhat resembling an apple. Bastard manchineel, a tree (Cameraria latifolia) of the East Indies, having similar poisonous properties. Lindley. 

MANCHU:  Of or pertaining to Manchuria or its inhabitants.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Manchuria; also, the language spoken by the Manchus. 

MANCIPATE:  To enslave; to bind; to restrict. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

MANCIPATION:  Slavery; involuntary servitude. [Obs.] Johnson. 

MANCIPLE:  A steward; a purveyor, particularly of a college or Inn of Court. Chaucer.  MANCONA BARK Man*co"na bark`  . See Sassy bark. 

MANCUS:  An old Anglo Saxon coin both of gold and silver, and of variously estimated values. The silver mancus was equal to about one shilling of modern English money.  -MANCY -man`cy. Etym: [Gr. -mancie.]  A combining form denoting divination; as, aleuromancy, chiromancy, necromancy, etc. 

MAND:  A demand. [Obs.] See Demand. 

MANDAMUS:  A writ issued by a superior court and directed to some inferior tribunal, or to some corporation or person exercising authority, commanding the performance of some specified duty. 

MANDARIN:  A small orange, with easily separable rind. It is thought to be of Chinese origin, and is counted a distinct species (Citrus nobilis)mandarin orange; tangerine. Mandarin duck (Zoöl.), a beautiful Asiatic duck (Dendronessa galericulata), often domesticated, and regarded by the Chinese as an emblem of conjugal affection.  -- Mandarin language, the spoken or colloquial language of educated people in China.  -- Mandarin yellow (Chem.), an artificial aniline dyestuff used for coloring silk and wool, and regarded as a complex derivative of quinoline. 

MANDARINATE:  The collective body of officials or persons of rank in China. S. W. Williams. 

MANDARINIC:  Appropriate or peculiar to a mandarin. 

MANDARINING:  The process of giving an orange color to goods formed of animal tissue, as silk or wool, not by coloring matter, but by producing a certain change in the fiber by the action of dilute nitric acid. Tomlinson. 

MANDARINISM:  A government mandarins; character or spirit of the mandarins. F. Lieder. 

MANDATARY:  One who undertakes to discharge a specific business commission; a mandatory. Wharton. 

MANDATE:  A rescript of the pope, commanding an ordinary collator to put the person therein named in possession of the first vacant benefice in his collation.  3. (Scots Law)  A contract by which one employs another to manage any business for him. By the Roman law, it must have been gratuitous. Erskine. 

MANDATOR:  The person who employs another to perform a mandate. Bouvier. 

MANDATORY:  Containing a command; preceptive; directory. 

MANDATORY:  Same as Mandatary. 

MANDELATE:  A salt of mandelic acid. 

MANDELIC:  Pertaining to an acid first obtained from benzoic aldehyde (oil of better almonds), as a white crystalline substance; -- called also phenyl glycolic acid. 

MANDER:  See Maunder. 

MANDERIL:  A mandrel. 

MANDIBLE:  The bone, or principal bone, of the lower jaw; the inferior maxilla; -- also applied to either the upper or the lower jaw in the beak of birds.  2. (Zoöl.)  The anterior pair of mouth organs of insects, crustaceaus, and related animals, whether adapted for biting or not. See Illust. of Diptera. 

MANDIBULAR:  Of or pertaining to a mandible; like a mandible.  -- n.  The principal mandibular bone; the mandible. Mandibular arch (Anat.), the most anterior visceral arch, -- that in which the mandible is developed.  MANDIBULATE; MANDIBULATED Man*dib"u*late, Man*dib"u*la`ted, a. (Zoöl.)  Provided with mandibles adapted for biting, as many insects. 

MANDIBULATE:  An insect having mandibles. 

MANDIBULIFORM:  Having the form of a mandible; -- said especially of the maxillæ of an insect when hard and adapted for biting. 

MANDIBULOHYOID:  Pertaining both to the mandibular and the hyoid arch, or situated between them. 

MANDIL:  A loose outer garment worn the 16th and 17th centuries. 

MANDILION:  See Mandil. Chapman. 

MANDINGOS:  ; sing. Mandingo. (Ethnol.) An extensive and powerful tribe of West African negroes.  MANDIOC; MANDIOCA Man"di*oc, Man`di*o"ca, n. (Bot.)  See Manioc. 

MANDLESTONE:  Amygdaloid. 

MANDMENT:  Commandment. [Obs.] 

MANDOLA:  An instrument closely resembling the mandolin, but of larger size and tuned lower.  MANDOLIN; MANDOLINE Man"do*lin, Man"do*line, n. Etym: [F. mandoline, It. mandolino, dim. of mandola, fr. L. pandura. See Bandore.] (Mus.)  A small and beautifully shaped instrument resembling the lute. 

MANDORE:  A kind of four-stringed lute. 

MANDRAGORA:  A genus of plants; the mandrake. See Mandrake, 1. 

MANDRAGORITE:  One who habitually intoxicates himself with a narcotic obtained from mandrake. 

MANDRAKE:  A low plant (Mandragora officinarum) of the Nightshade family, having a fleshy root, often forked, and supposed to resemble a man. It was therefore supposed to have animal life, and to cry out when pulled up. All parts of the plant are strongly narcotic. It is found in the Mediterranean region. And shrieks like mandrakes, torn out of the earth, That living mortals, hearing them, run mad. Shak.  Note: The mandrake of Scripture was perhaps the same plant, but proof is wanting.  2. (Bot.)  The May apple (Podophyllum peltatum). See May apple under May, and Podophyllum. [U.S.] 

MANDRILL:  a large West African baboon (Cynocephalus, or Papio, mormon). The adult male has, on the sides of the nose, large, naked, grooved swellings, conspicuously striped with blue and red. 

MANDUCABLE:  Such as can be chewed; fit to be eaten. [R.] Any manducable creature. Sir T. Herbert. 

MANDUCATE:  To masticate; to chew; to eat. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

MANDUCATION:  The act of chewing. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

MANDUCATORY:  Pertaining to, or employed in, chewing. 

MANDUCUS:  A grotesque mask, representing a person chewing or grimacing, worn in processions and by comic actors on the stage. 

MANE:  The long and heavy hair growing on the upper side of, or about, the neck of some quadrupedal animals, as the horse, the lion, etc. See Illust. of Horse.  MAN-EATER Man"-eat`er, n. (Zoöl.)  One who, or that which, has an appetite for human flesh; specifically, one of certain large sharks (esp. Carcharodon Rondeleti); also, a lion or a tiger which has acquired the habit of feeding upon human flesh. 

MANED:  Having a mane. Maned seal (Zoöl.), the sea lion.  -- Maned sheep (Zoöl.), the aoudad. 

MANEH:  A Hebrew weight for gold or silver, being one hundred shekels of gold and sixty shekels of silver. Ezek. xlv. 12. 

MANELESS:  Having no mane. Maneless lion (Zoöl.), a variety of the lion having a short, inconspicuous mane. It inhabits Arabia and adjacent countries. 

MANEQUIN:  An artist's model of wood or other material. 

MANERIAL:  See Manorial. 

MANES:  The benevolent spirits of the dead, especially of dead ancestors, regarded as family deities and protectors. Hail, O ye holy manes! Dryden. 

MANESHEET:  A covering placed over the upper part of a horse's head.  MANEUVER; MANOEUVRE Ma*neu"ver, Ma*noeu"vre, n. Etym: [F. manoeuvre, OF. manuevre, LL. manopera, lit., hand work, manual labor; L.manus hand + opera, fr. opus work. See Manual, Operate, and cf. Mainor, Manure.]  1. Management; dexterous movement; specif., a military or naval evolution, movement, or change of position.  2. Management with address or artful design; adroit proceeding; stratagem.  MANEUVER; MANOEUVRE Ma*neu"ver, Ma*noeu"vre, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Maneuvered or Manoeuvred; p. pr. & vb. n. Maneuvering (, or Manoeuvring (.] Etym: [Cf. F. manoeuvrer. See Maneuver, n.]  1. To perform a movement or movements in military or naval tactics; to make changes in position with reference to getting advantage in attack or defense.  2. To manage with address or art; to scheme.  MANEUVER; MANOEUVRE Ma*neu"ver, Ma*noeu"vre, v. t.  To change the positions of, as of troops of ships.  MANEUVERER; MANOEUVRER Ma*neu"ver*er, Ma*noeu"vrer, n.  One who maneuvers. This charming widow Beaumont is a nanoeuvrer. We can't well make an English word of it. Miss Edgeworth. 

MANFUL:  Showing manliness, or manly spirit; hence, brave, courageous, resolute, noble. " Manful hardiness." Chaucer.  -- Man"ful*ly, adv.  -- Man"ful*ness, n. 

MANGABEY:  Any one of several African monkeys of the genus Cercocebus, as the sooty mangabey (C. fuliginosus), which is sooty black. [Also written mangaby.] 

MANGAN:  See Mangonel. 

MANGANATE:  A salt of manganic acid.  Note: The manganates are usually green, and are wellknown compounds, though derived from a hypothetical acid. 

MANGANESATE:  A manganate. [Obs.] 

MANGANESE:  An element obtained by reduction of its oxide, as a hard, grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty, but easily oxidized. Its ores occur abundantly in nature as the minerals pyrolusite, manganite, etc. Symbol Mn. Atomic weight 54.8.  Note: An alloy of manganese with iron (called ferromanganese) is used to increase the density and hardness of steel. Black oxide of manganese, Manganese dioxide or peroxide, or Black manganese (Chem.), a heavy black powder MnO2, occurring native as the mineral pyrolusite, and valuable as a strong oxidizer; -- called also familiarly manganese. It colors glass violet, and is used as a decolorizer to remove the green tint of impure glass. Manganese bronze, an alloy made by adding from one to two per cent of manganese to the copper and zinc used in brass.  MANGANESE STEEL Man`ga*nese" steel.  Cast steel containing a considerable percentage of manganese, which makes it very hard and tough. See Alloy steel, above. 

MANGANESIAN:  Manganic. [R.] 

MANGANESIC:  Manganic. [Obs.] 

MANGANESIOUS:  Manganous. 

MANGANESIUM:  Manganese. 

MANGANESOUS:  Manganous. 

MANGANIC:  Of, pertaining to resembling, or containing, manganese; specif., designating compounds in which manganese has a higher valence as contrasted with manganous compounds. Cf. Manganous. Manganic acid, an acid, H2MnO4, formed from manganese, analogous to sulphuric acid. 

MANGANIFEROUS:  Containing manganese. 

MANGANITE:  One of the oxides of manganese; -- called also gray manganese ore. It occurs in brilliant steel-gray or iron-black crystals, also massive.  2. (Chem.)  A compound of manganese dioxide with a metallic oxide; so called as though derived from the hypothetical manganous acid. 

MANGANIUM:  Manganese. 

MANGANOUS:  Of, pertaining to, designating, those compounds of manganese in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with manganic compounds; as, manganous oxide. Manganous acid, a hypothetical compound analogous to sulphurous acid, and forming the so-called manganites. 

MANGCORN:  A mixture of wheat and rye, or other species of grain. [Prov Eng.] 

MANGE:  The scab or itch in cattle, dogs, and other beasts. Mange insect (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small parasitic mites, which burrow in the skin of cattle. horses, dogs, and other animals, causing the mange. The mange insect of the horse (Psoroptes, or Dermatodectes, equi), and that of cattle (Symbiotes, or Dermatophagys, bovis) are the most important species. See Acarina.  MANGEL-WURZEL Man"gel-wur`zel, n. Etym: [G., corrupted fr. mangoldwurzel; mangold beet + wurzel root.] (Bot.)  A kind of large field beet (B. macrorhiza), used as food for cattle, -- by some considered a mere variety of the ordinary beet. See Beet. [Written also mangold-wurzel.] 

MANGER:  The fore part of the deck, having a bulkhead athwart ships high enough to prevent water which enters the hawse holes from running over it. 

MANGILY:  In a mangy manner; scabbily. 

MANGINESS:  The condition or quality of being mangy. 

MANGLE:  A machine for smoothing linen or cotton cloth, as sheets, tablecloths, napkins, and clothing, by roller pressure. Mangle rack (Mach.), a contrivance for converting continuous circular motion into reciprocating rectilinear motion, by means of a rack and pinion, as in the mangle. The pinion is held to the rack by a groove in such a manner that it passes alternately from one side of the rack to the other, and thus gives motion to it in opposite directions, according to the side in which its teeth are engaged.  -- Mangle wheel, a wheel in which the teeth, or pins, on its face, are interrupted on one side, and the pinion, working in them, passes from inside to outside of the teeth alternately, thus converting the continuous circular motion of the pinion into a reciprocating circular motion of the wheel. 

MANGLE:  To smooth with a mangle, as damp linen or cloth. 

MANGLER:  One who mangles or tears in cutting; one who mutilates any work in doing it. 

MANGLER:  One who smooths with a mangle. 

MANGOLDWURZEL:  See Mangel-wurzel. 

MANGONEL:  A military engine formerly used for throwing stones and javelins. 

MANGONISM:  The art of mangonizing, or setting off to advantage. [Obs.] 

MANGONIZE:  To furbish up for sale; to set off to advantage. [Obs. or R.] B. Jonson.  MANGOSTEEN; MANGOSTAN Man"go*steen, Man"go*stan, n. Etym: [Malay mangusta, mangis.] (Bot.)  A tree of the East Indies of the genus Garcinia (G. Mangostana). The tree grows to the height of eighteen feet, and bears fruit also called mangosteen, of the size of a small apple, the pulp of which is very delicious food. 

MANGROVE:  The name of one or two trees of the genus Rhizophora (R. Mangle, and R. mucronata, the last doubtfully distinct) inhabiting muddy shores of tropical regions, where they spread by emitting aërial roots, which fasten in the saline mire and eventually become new stems. The seeds also send down a strong root while yet attached to the parent plant.  Note: The fruit has a ruddy brown shell, and a delicate white pulp which is sweet and eatable. The bark is astringent, and is used for tanning leather. The black and the white mangrove (Avicennia nitida and A. tomentosa) have much the same habit.  2. (Zoöl.)  The mango fish. 

MANGUE:  The kusimanse. 

MANGY:  Infected with the mange; scabby. 

MANHADEN:  See Menhaden. 

MANHEAD:  Manhood. [Obs.] Chaucer.  MANHES PROCESS Man`hès" proc"ess. (Copper Metal.)  A process by which copper matte is treated by passing through it a blast of air, to oxidize and remove sulphur. It is analogous in apparatus to the Bessemer process for decarbonizing cast iron. So called from Pierre Manhès, a French metallurgist, who invented it. 

MANHOLE:  A hole through which a man may descend or creep into a drain, sewer, steam boiler, parts of machinery, etc., for cleaning or repairing. 

MANIABLE:  Manageable. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MANIAC:  Raving with madness; raging with disordered intellect; affected with mania; mad. 

MANIAC:  A raving lunatic; a madman. 

MANIACAL:  Affected with, or characterized by, madness; maniac.  -- Ma*ni"a*cal*ly, adv. 

MANIC:  Of or pert. to, or characterized by, mania, or excitement. 

MANICATE:  Covered with hairs or pubescence so platted together and interwoven as to form a mass easily removed.  MANICHAEAN; MANICHEAN; MANICHEE Man`i*chæ"an, Man`i*che"an, Man"i*chee, n. Etym: [LL. Manichaeus: cf. F. manichéen.]  A believer in the doctrines of Manes, a Persian of the third century A. D., who taught a dualism in which Light is regarded as the source of Good, and Darkness as the source of Evil. The Manichæans stand as representatives of dualism pushed to its utmost development. Tylor.  MANICHAEAN; MANICHEAN Man`i*chæ"an, Man`i*che"an, a.  Of or pertaining to the Manichæans.  MANICHAEISM; MANICHEISM Man"i*chæ*ism, Man"i*che*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. manichéisme.]  The doctrines taught, or system of principles maintained, by the Manichæans. 

MANICHEIST:  Manichæan.  MANICHORD; MANICHORDON Man"i*chord, Man`i*chor"don, Etym: [L. monochordon, Gr. Monochord.] (Mus.)  The clavichord or clarichord; -- called also dumb spinet. 

MANICURE:  A person who makes a business of taking care of people's hands, especially their nails. [Men] who had taken good care of their hands by wearing gloves and availing themselves of the services of a manicure. Pop. Sci. Monthly. 

MANID:  Any species of the genus Manis, or family Manidæ. 

MANIE:  Mania; insanity. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MANIFESTABLE:  Such as can be manifested. 

MANIFESTATION:  The act of manifesting or disclosing, or the state of being manifested; discovery to the eye or to the understanding; also, that which manifests; exhibition; display; revelation; as, the manifestation of God's power in creation. The secret manner in which acts of mercy ought to be performed, requires this public manifestation of them at the great day. Atterbury. 

MANIFESTIBLE:  Manifestable. 

MANIFESTLY:  In a manifest manner. 

MANIFESTNESS:  The quality or state of being manifest; obviousness. 

MANIFESTO:  A public declaration, usually of a prince, sovereign, or other person claiming large powers, showing his intentions, or proclaiming his opinions and motives in reference to some act done or contemplated by him; as, a manifesto declaring the purpose of a prince to begin war, and explaining his motives. Bouvier. it was proposed to draw up a manifesto, setting forth the grounds and motives of our taking arms. Addison . Frederick, in a public manifesto, appealed to the Empire against the insolent pretensions of the pope. Milman. 

MANIFOLD:  A cylindrical pipe fitting, having a number of lateral outlets, for connecting one pipe with several others.  3. pl.  The third stomach of a ruminant animal. [Local, U.S.] 

MANIFOLD:  To take copies of by the process of manifold writing; as, to manifold a letter. 

MANIFOLDED:  Having many folds, layers, or plates; as, a manifolded shield. [Obs.] 

MANIFOLDLY:  In a manifold manner. 

MANIFOLDNESS:  A generalized concept of magnitude. 

MANIFORM:  Shaped like the hand. 

MANIGLION:  Either one of two handles on the back of a piece of ordnance.  MANIHOC; MANIHOT Man"i*hoc, Man"i*hot, n.  See Manioc. 

MANIKIN:  Of or pertaining to Manila or Manilla, the capital of the Philippine Islands; made in, or exported from, that city. Manila cheroot or cigar, a cheroot or cigar made of tobacco grown in the Philippine Islands.  -- Manila hemp, a fibrous material obtained from the Musa textilis, a plant allied to the banana, growing in the Philippine and other East India islands; -- called also by the native name abaca. From it matting, canvas, ropes, and cables are made.  -- Manila paper, a durable brown or buff paper made of Manila hemp, used as a wrapping paper, and as a cheap printing and writing paper. The name is also given to inferior papers, made of other fiber. 

MANILIO:  See Manilla, 1. Sir T. Herbert. 

MANILLA:  Same as Manila. 

MANILLE:  See 1st Manilla, 1. 

MANIOC:  The tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M. Aipi), from which cassava and tapioca are prepared; also, cassava.[Written also mandioc, manihoc, manihot.] 

MANIPULATE:  To use the hands in dexterous operations; to do hand work; specifically, to manage the apparatus or instruments used in scientific work, or in artistic or mechanical processes; also, specifically, to use the hand in mesmeric operations. 

MANIPULATIVE:  Of or pertaining to manipulation; performed by manipulation. 

MANIPULATOR:  One who manipulates 

MANIPULATORY:  Of or pertaining to manipulation. 

MANIS:  A genus of edentates, covered with large, hard, triangular scales, with sharp edges that overlap each other like tiles on a roof. They inhabit the warmest parts of Asia and Africa, and feed on ants. Called also Scaly anteater. See Pangolin.  MANITO; MANITOU; MANITU Man"i*to, Man"i*tou, Man"i*tu, n.  A name given by tribes of American Indians to a great spirit, whether good or evil, or to any object of worship. Tylor. Gitche Manito the mighty, The Great Spirit, the creator, Smiled upon his helpless children! Longfellow. Mitche Manito the mighty, He the dreadful Spirit of Evil, As a serpent was depicted. Longfellow. 

MANITRUNK:  The anterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Insect. 

MANKIND:  Manlike; not womanly; masculine; bold; cruel. [Obs] Are women grown so mankind Must they be wooing Beau. & Fl. Be not too mankind against your wife. Chapman. 

MANKS:  Of or pertaining to the language or people of the of Man.  -- n.  The language spoken in the Isle of Man. See Manx. 

MANLESSLY:  Inhumanly. [Obs.] 

MANLIKE:  Like man, or like a man, in form or nature; having the qualities of a man, esp. the nobler qualities; manly. " Gentle, manlike speech." Testament of Love. " A right manlike man." Sir P. Sidney. In glaring Chloe's manlike taste and mien. Shenstone. 

MANLINESS:  The quality or state of being manly. 

MANLING:  A little man. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

MANLY:  Having qualities becoming to a man; not childish or womanish; manlike, esp. brave, courageous, resolute, noble. Let's briefly put on manly readiness. Shak. Serene and manly, hardened to sustain The load of life. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Bold; daring; brave; courageous; firm; undaunted; hardy; dignified; stately. 

MANLY:  In a manly manner; with the courage and fortitude of a manly man; as, to act manly. 

MANNA:  The food supplied to the Israelites in their journey through the wilderness of Arabia; hence, divinely supplied food. Ex. xvi. 15.  2. (Bot.)  A name given to lichens of the genus Lecanora, sometimes blown into heaps in the deserts of Arabia and Africa, and gathered and used as food.  3. (Bot. & Med.)  A sweetish exudation in the form of pale yellow friable flakes, coming from several trees and shrubs and used in medicine as a gentle laxative, as the secretion of Fraxinus Ornus, and F. rotundifolia, the manna ashes of Southern Europe.  Note: Persian manna is the secretion of the camel's thorn (see Camel's thorn, under Camel); Tamarisk manna, that of the Tamarisk mannifera, a shrub of Western Asia; Australian, manna, that of certain species of eucalyptus; Briançon manna, that of the European larch. Manna grass (Bot.), a name of several tall slender grasses of the genus Glyceria. they have long loose panicles, and grow in moist places. Nerved manna grass is Glyceria nervata, and Floating manna grass is G. flu.  -- Manna insect (Zoöl), a scale insect (Gossyparia mannipara), which causes the exudation of manna from the Tamarisk tree in Arabia.  MANNA CROUP Man"na croup`. Etym: [Manna + Russ. & Pol. krupa groats, grits.]  1. The portions of hard wheat kernels not ground into flour by the millstones: a kind of semolina prepared in Russia and used for puddings, soups, etc.  -- called also manna groats.  2. The husked grains of manna grass. 

MANNER:  Carriage; behavior; deportment; also, becoming behavior; well- bred carriage and address. Good manners are made up of petty sacrifices. Emerson.  (c) The style of writing or thought of an author; characteristic peculiarity of an artist.  3. Certain degree or measure; as, it is in a manner done already. The bread is in a manner common. 1 Sam. xxi.5.  4. Sort; kind; style; -- in this application sometimes having the sense of a plural, sorts or kinds. Ye tithe mint, and rue, and all manner of herbs. Luke xi. 42. I bid thee say, What manner of man art thou Coleridge.  Note: In old usage, of was often omitted after manner, when employed in this sense. "A manner Latin corrupt was her speech." Chaucer. By any manner of means, in any way possible; by any sort of means.  -- To be taken in, or with the manner. Etym: [A corruption of to be taken in the mainor. See Mainor.] To be taken in the very act. [Obs.] See Mainor.  -- To make one's manners, to make a bow or courtesy; to offer salutation.  -- Manners bit, a portion left in a dish for the sake of good manners. Hallwell.  Syn.  -- Method; mode; custom; habit; fashion; air; look; mien; aspect; appearance. See Method. 

MANNERCHOR:  A German men's chorus or singing club. 

MANNERISM:  Adherence to a peculiar style or manner; a characteristic mode of action, bearing, or treatment, carried to excess, especially in literature or art. Mannerism is pardonable,and is sometimes even agreeable, when the manner, though vicious, is natural . . . . But a mannerism which does not sit easy on the mannerist, which has been adopted on principle, and which can be sustained only by constant effort, is always offensive. Macaulay. 

MANNERIST:  One addicted to mannerism; a person who, in action, bearing, or treatment, carries characteristic peculiarities to excess. See citation under Mannerism. 

MANNERLINESS:  The quality or state of being mannerly; civility; complaisance. Sir M. Hale. 

MANNERLY:  Showing good manners; civil; respectful; complaisant. What thou thinkest meet, and is most mannerly. Shak. 

MANNERLY:  With good manners. Shak.  MANNHEIM GOLD Mann"heim gold". Etym: [From Mannheim in Germany, where much of it was made.]  A kind of brass made in imitation of gold. It contains eighty per cent of copper and twenty of zinc. Ure. 

MANNIDE:  A white amorphous or crystalline substance, obtained by dehydration of mannite, and distinct from, but convertible into, mannitan. 

MANNITAN:  A white amorphous or crystalline substance obtained by the partial dehydration of mannite. 

MANNITATE:  A salt of mannitic acid. 

MANNITE:  A white crystalline substance of a sweet taste obtained from a so-called manna, the dried sap of the flowering ash (Fraxinus ornus); -- called also mannitol, and hydroxy hexane. Cf. Dulcite. HO.CH2.(CHOH)4.CH2.OH = D-mannitol; manna sugar; cordycepic acid; Diosmol; Mannicol; Mannidex; Osmiktrol; Osmosal.  -- used in pharmacy as excipient and diluent for solids and liquids. Used as a food additive for anti-caking properties, or as a sweetener. Also used to "cut" (dilute) illegal drugs such as cocaine or heroin. ("excipient" use)  2. (Bot.)  A sweet white efflorescence from dried fronds of kelp, especially from those of the Laminaria saccharina, or devil's apron. 

MANNITIC:  Of, pertaining to, resembling, or derived from, mannite. Mannitic acid (Chem.), a white amorphous substance, intermediate between saccharic acid and mannite, and obtained by the partial oxidation of the latter. 

MANNITOL:  The technical name of mannite. See Mannite. 

MANNITOSE:  A variety of sugar obtained by the partial oxidation of mannite, and closely resembling levulose. 

MANO:  The muller, or crushing and grinding stone, used in grinding corn on a metate. [Mexico & Local U. S.] 

MANOEUVRE:  See Maneuver.  MAN-OF-WAR Man`-*of`-*war", n; pl. Men-of-war.  A government vessel employed for the purposes of war, esp. one of large size; a ship of war. Man-of-war bird (Zoöl.), The frigate bird; also applied to the skua gulls, and to the wandering albatross.  -- Man-of-war hawk (Zoöl.), the frigate bird.  -- Man-of-war's man, a sailor serving in a ship of war.  -- Portuguese man-of-war (Zoöl.), any species of the genus Physalia. See Physalia. 

MANOGRAPH:  An optical device for making an indicator diagram for high- speed engines. It consists of a light-tight box or camera having at one end a small convex mirror which reflects a beam of light on to the ground glass or photographic plate at the other end. The mirror is pivoted so that it can be moved in one direction by a small plunger operated by an elastic metal diaphragm which closes a tube connected with the engine cylinder. It is also moved at right angles to this direction by a reducing motion, called a reproducer, so as to copy accurately on a smaller scale the motion of the engine piston. The resultant of these two movements imparts to the reflected beam of light a motion similar to that of the pencil of the ordinary indicator, and this can be traced on the sheet of ground glass, or photographed. 

MANOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the tension or elastic force of gases, steam, etc., constructed usually on the principle of allowing the gas to exert its elastic force in raising a column of mercury in an open tube, or in compressing a portion of air or other gas in a closed tube with mercury or other liquid intervening, or in bending a metallic or other spring so as to set in motion an index; a pressure gauge. See Pressure, and Illust. of Air pump.  MANOMETRIC; MANOMETRICAL Man`o*met"ric, Man`o*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. manométrique.]  Of or pertaining to the manometer; made by the manometer. 

MANOR:  The land belonging to a lord or nobleman, or so much land as a lord or great personage kept in his own hands, for the use and subsistence of his family. My manors, rents, revenues, l forego. Shak.  Note: In these days, a manor rather signifies the jurisdiction and royalty incorporeal, than the land or site, for a man may have a manor in gross, as the law terms it, that is, the right and interest of a court-baron, with the perquisites thereto belonging.  2. (American Law)  A tract of land occupied by tenants who pay a free-farm rent to the proprietor, sometimes in kind, and sometimes by performing certain stipulated services. Burrill. Manor house, or Manor seat, the house belonging to a manor. 

MANORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a manor. " Manorial claims." Paley. 

MANOSCOPE:  Same as Manometer. 

MANOSCOPY:  The science of the determination of the density of vapors and gases. 

MANOVERY:  A contrivance or maneuvering to catch game illegally. 

MANQUELLER:  A killer of men; a manslayer. [Obs.] Carew.  MANRED; MANRENT Man"red, Man"rent`, n.  Homage or service rendered to a superior, as to a lord; vassalage. [Obs. or Scots Law] Jamieson. 

MANROPE:  One of the side ropes to the gangway of a ship. Totten.  MANSARD ROOF Man"sard roof". Etym: [So called from its inventor, François Mansard, or Mansart, a distinguished French architect, who died in 1666.] (Arch.)  A hipped curb roof; that is, a roof having on all sides two slopes, the lower one being steeper than the upper one. 

MANSERVANT:  A male servant. 

MANSION:  A twelfth part of the heavens; a house. See 1st House, 8. Chaucer.  4. The place in the heavens occupied each day by the moon in its monthly revolution. [Obs.] The eight and twenty mansions That longen to the moon. Chaucer. Mansion house, the house in which one resides; specifically, in London and some other cities, the official residence of the Lord Mayor. Blackstone. 

MANSION:  To dwell; to reside. [Obs.] Mede. 

MANSIONARY:  Resident; residentiary; as, mansionary canons. 

MANSIONRY:  The state of dwelling or residing; occupancy as a dwelling place. [Obs.] Shak. 

MANSLAUGHTER:  The unlawful killing of a man, either in negligenc 

MANSLAYER:  One who kills a human being; one who commits manslaughter. 

MANSTEALER:  A person who steals or kidnaps a human being or beings. 

MANSTEALING:  The act or business of stealing or kidnaping human beings, especially with a view to e 

MANSUETE:  Tame; gentle; kind. [Obs.] Ray. 

MANSUETUDE:  Tameness; gentleness; mildness. [Archaic] 

MANSWEAR:  To swear falsely. Same as Mainswear. 

MANTA:  See Coleoptera and Sea devil. 

MANTCHOO:  Same as Manchu. 

MANTEL:  The finish around a fireplace, covering the chimney-breast in front and sometimes on both sides; especially, a shelf above the fireplace, and its supports. [Written also mantle.] 

MANTELET:  A musket-proof shield of rope, wood, or metal, which is sometimes used for the protection of sappers or riflemen while attacking a fortress, or of gunners at embrasures; -- now commonly written mantlet. 

MANTELLETTA:  A silk or woolen vestment without sleeves worn by cardinals, bishops, abbots, and the prelates of the Roman court. It has a low collar, is fastened in front, and reaches almost to the knees. 

MANTELPIECE:  Same as Mantel. 

MANTELSHELF:  The shelf of a mantel. 

MANTELTREE:  The lintel of a fireplace when of wood, as frequently in early houses. 

MANTIC:  Of or pertaining to divination, or to the condition of one inspired, or supposed to be inspired, by a deity; prophetic. [R.] "Mantic fury." Trench. 

MANTIS:  Any one of numerous species of voracious orthopterous insects of the genus Mantis, and allied genera. They are remarkable for their slender grotesque forms, and for holding their stout anterior legs in a manner suggesting hands folded in prayer. The common American species is M. Carolina. Mantis shrimp. (Zoöl.) See Sguilla. 

MANTISPID:  Any neuropterous insect of the genus Mantispa, and allied genera. The larvæ feed on plant lice. Also used adjectively. See Illust. under Neuroptera. 

MANTISSA:  The decimal part of a logarithm, as distinguished from the integral part, or characteristic. 

MANTLE:  Same as Mantling.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) The external fold, or folds, of the soft, exterior membrane of the body of a mollusk. It usually forms a cavity inclosing the gills. See Illusts. of Buccinum, and Byssus. (b) Any free, outer membrane. (c) The back of a bird together with the folded wings.  4. (Arch.)  A mantel. See Mantel.  5. The outer wall and casing of a blast furnace, above the hearth. Raymond.  6. (Hydraulic Engin.)  A penstock for a water wheel. 

MANTLE:  To cover or envelop, as with a mantle; to cloak; to hide; to disguise. Shak. 

MANTLET:  See Mantelet. 

MANTLING:  The representation of a mantle, or the drapery behind and around a coat of arms: -- called also lambrequin. 

MANTO:  See Manteau. [Obs.] Bailey. 

MANTOLOGIST:  One who is skilled in mantology; a diviner. [R.] 

MANTOLOGY:  The act or art of divination. [R.] 

MANTRA:  A prayer; an invocation; a religious formula; a charm. [India]  Note: Among the Hindoos each caste and tribe has a mantra peculiar to itself; as, the mantra of the Brahmans. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

MANTUAMAKER:  One who makes dresses, cloaks, etc., for women; a dressmaker. 

MANTUAN:  Of or pertaining to Mantua.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Mantua. 

MANU:  One of a series of progenitors of human beings, and authors of human wisdom. 

MANUAL:  Of or pertaining to the hand; done or made by the hand; as, manual labor; the king's sign manual. "Manual and ocular examination." Tatham. Manual alphabet. See Dactylology.  -- Manual exercise (Mil.) the exercise by which soldiers are taught the use of their muskets and other arms.  -- Seal manual, the impression of a seal worn on the hand as a ring.  -- Sign manual. See under Sign. 

MANUAL:  A keyboard of an organ or harmonium for the fingers, as distinguished from the pedals; a clavier, or set of keys. Moore (Encyc. of Music).  3. (Mil.)  A prescribed exercise in the systematic handing of a weapon; as, the manual of arms; the manual of the sword; the manual of the piece (cannon, mortar, etc.). 

MANUALIST:  One who works wi 

MANUALLY:  By hand. 

MANUARY:  Manual.  -- n.  An artificer. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

MANUBIAL:  Belonging to spoils; taken in war. [Obs.] Bailey. 

MANUBRIAL:  Of or pertaining to a manubrium; shaped like a manubrium; handlelike. 

MANUBRIUM:  A handlelike process or part; esp., the anterior segment of the sternum, or presternum, and the handlelike process of the malleus.  2. (Zoöl.)  The proboscis of a jellyfish; -- called also hypostoma. See Illust. of Hydromedusa. 

MANUCODE:  Any bird of the genus Manucodia, of Australia and New Guinea. They are related to the bird of paradise. 

MANUDUCENT:  One who leads by the hand; a manuductor. [Obs.] 

MANUDUCTION:  Guidance by the hand. [Obs.] Glanvill. South. 

MANUDUCTOR:  A conductor; an officer in the ancient church who gave the signal for the choir to sing, and who beat time with the hand, and regulated the music. Moore (Encyc. of Music.) 

MANUFACTORY:  Pertaining to manufacturing. 

MANUFACTURAL:  Of or pertaining to manufactures. [R.] 

MANUFACTURE:  To be employed in manufacturing something. 

MANUFACTURER:  One who manufactures. 

MANUL:  A wild cat (Felis manul), having long, soft, light-colored fur. It is found in the mountains of Central Asia, and dwells among rocks. 

MANUMISE:  To manumit. [Obs.] Dryden. 

MANUMISSION:  The act of manumitting, or of liberating a slave from bondage. "Given to slaves at their manumission." Arbuthnot. 

MANUMIT:  To release from slavery; to liberate from personal bondage or servitude; to free, as a slave. "Manumitted slaves." Hume. 

MANUMOTIVE:  Movable by hand. [R.] 

MANUMOTOR:  A small wheel carriage, so constructed that a person sitting in it may move it. 

MANURAGE:  Cultivation. [Obs.] Warner. 

MANURANCE:  Cultivation. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MANURE:  Any matter which makes land productive; a fertilizing substance, as the contents of stables and barnyards, dung, decaying animal or vegetable substances, etc. Dryden. 

MANUREMENT:  Cultivation. [Obs.] W. Wotton. 

MANURER:  One who manures land. 

MANURIAL:  Relating to manures. 

MANURING:  The act of process of applying manure; also, the manure applied. 

MANUS:  The distal segment of the fore limb, including the carpus and fore foot or hand. 

MANUSCRIPT:  Written with or by the hand; not printed; as, a manuscript volume. 

MANUSCRIPTAL:  Manuscript. [Obs.] 

MANUTENENCY:  Maintenance. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft. 

MANWAY:  A small passageway, as in a mine, that a man may pass through. Raymond. 

MANX:  Of or pertaining to the Isle of Man, or its inhabitants; as, the Manx language. Manx cat (Zoöl.), a breed of domestic cats having a rudimentary tail, containing only about three vertebrae.  -- Manx shearwater (Zoöl.), an oceanic bird (Puffinus anglorum, or P. puffinus), called also Manx petrel, Manx puffin. It was formerly abundant in the Isle of Man. 

MANX:  The language of the inhabitants of the Isle of Man, a dialect of the Celtic. 

MANY:  A retinue of servants; a household. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MANY:  Consisting of a great number; numerous; not few. Thou shalt be a father of many nations. Gen. xvii. 4. Not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called. 1 Cor. i. 26.  Note: Many is freely prefixed to participles, forming compounds which need no special explanation; as, many-angled, many-celled, many-eyed, many-footed, many-handed, many-leaved, many-lettered, many-named, many-peopled, many-petaled, many-seeded, many-syllabled (polysyllabic), many-tongued, many-voiced, many-wived, and the like. Comparison is often expressed by many with as or so. "As many as were willing hearted . . . brought bracelets." Exod. xxxv. 22. "So many laws argue so many sins." Milton. Many stands with a singular substantive with a or an. Many a, a large number taken distributively; each one of many. "For thy sake have I shed many a tear." Shak. "Full many a gem of purest ray serene." Gray.  -- Many one, many a one; many persons. BK. of Com. Prayer.  -- The many, the majority; -- opposed to the few. See Many, n.  -- Too many, too numerous; hence, too powerful; as, they are too many for us. L'Estrange.  Syn.  -- Numerous; multiplied; frequent; manifold; various; divers; sundry. 

MANY:  Having many faculties; versatile; many-sided. 

MANYPLIES:  The third division, or that between the reticulum, or honeycomb stomach, and the abomasum, or rennet stomach, in the stomach of ruminants; the omasum; the psalterium. So called from the numerous folds in its mucous membrane. See Illust of Ruminant.  MANY-SIDED Ma"ny-sid`ed, a.  1. Having many sides; -- said of figures. Hence, presenting many questions or subjects for consideration; as, a many-sided topic.  2. Interested in, and having an aptitude for, many unlike pursuits or objects of attention; versatile.  -- Ma"ny-sid`ed*ness, n.  MANYWAYS; MANYWISE Ma"ny*ways`, Ma"ny*wise`, adv.  In many different ways; variously. 

MANZANILLA:  A kind of small roundish olive with a small freestone pit, a fine skin, and a peculiar bitterish flavor. Manzanillas are commonly pitted and stuffed with Spanish pimientos. 

MANZANITA:  A name given to several species of Arctostaphylos, but mostly to A. glauca and A. pungens, shrubs of California, Oregon, etc., with reddish smooth bark, ovate or oval coriaceous evergreen leaves, and bearing clusters of red berries, which are said to be a favorite food of the grizzly bear. 

MAORI:  One of the aboriginal inhabitants of New Zealand; also, the original language of New Zealand.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to the Maoris or to their language. 

MAP:  To represent by a map; -- often with out; as, to survey and map, or map out, a county. Hence, figuratively: To represent or indicate systematically and clearly; to sketch; to plan; as, to map, or map out, a journey; to map out business. I am near to the place where they should meet, if Pisanio have mapped it truly. Shak. 

MAPACH:  The raccoon. 

MAPLE:  A tree of the genus Acer, including about fifty species. A. saccharinum is the rock maple, or sugar maple, from the sap of which sugar is made, in the United States, in great quantities, by evaporation; the red or swamp maple is A. rubrum; the silver maple, A. dasycarpum, having fruit wooly when young; the striped maple, A. Pennsylvanium, called also moosewood. The common maple of Europe is A. campestre, the sycamore maple is A. Pseudo-platanus, and the Norway maple is A. platanoides.  Note: Maple is much used adjectively, or as the first part of a compound; as, maple tree, maple leaf, etc. Bird's-eye maple, Curled maple, varieties of the wood of the rock maple, in which a beautiful lustrous grain is produced by the sinuous course of the fibers.  -- Maple honey, Maple molasses, or Maple sirup, maple sap boiled to the consistency of molasses.  -- Maple sugar, sugar obtained from the sap of the sugar maple by evaporation. 

MAPLIKE:  Having or consisting of lines resembling a map; as, the maplike figures in which certain lichens grow. 

MAPPERY:  The making, or study, of maps. [Obs.] Shak. 

MAQUI:  A Chilian shrub (Aristotelia Maqui). Its bark furnishes strings for musical instruments, and a medicinal wine is made from its berries. 

MAR:  A small lake. See Mere. [Prov. Eng.] 

MAR:  A mark or blemish made by bruising, scratching, or the like; a disfigurement. 

MARA:  The principal or ruling evil spirit. E. Arnold. 

MARA:  A female demon who torments people in sleep by crouching on their chests or stomachs, or by causing terrifying visions. 

MARA:  The Patagonian cavy (Dolichotis Patagonicus.) 

MARABOU:  A large stork of the genus Leptoptilos (formerly Ciconia), esp. the African species (L. crumenifer), which furnishes plumes worn as ornaments. The Asiatic species (L. dubius, or L. argala) is the adjutant. See Adjutant. [Written also marabu.]  2. One having five eighths negro blood; the offspring of a mulatto and a griffe. [Louisiana] Bartlett. 

MARABOUT:  A Mohammedan saint; especially, one who claims to work cures supernaturally. 

MARACAN:  A macaw. 

MARAI:  A sacred inclosure or temple; -- so called by the islanders of the Pacific Ocean. 

MARANATHA:  "Our Lord cometh;" -- an expression used by St. Paul at the conclusion of his first Epistle to the Corinthians (xvi. 22). This word has been used in anathematizing persons for great crimes; as much as to say, "May the Lord come quickly to take vengeance of thy crimes." See Anathema maranatha, under Anathema. 

MARANTA:  A genus of endogenous plants found in tropical America, and some species also in India. They have tuberous roots containing a large amount of starch, and from one species (Maranta arundinacea) arrowroot is obtained. Many kinds are cultivated for ornament. 

MARASCHINO:  A liqueur distilled from fermented cherry juice, and flavored with the pit of a variety of cherry which grows in Dalmatia. 

MARASMUS:  A wasting of flesh without fever or apparent disease; a kind of consumption; atrophy; phthisis. Pining atrophy, Marasmus, and wide-wasting pestilence. Milton. Marasmus senilis Etym: [L.], progressive atrophy of the aged.  MARATHI; MAHRATTA Ma*ra"thi, Mah*rat"ta, n.  A Sanskritic language of western India, prob. descended from the Maharastri Prakrit, spoken by the Marathas and neighboring peoples. It has an abundant literature dating from the 13th century. It has a book alphabet nearly the same as Devanagari and a cursive script translation between the Devanagari and the Gujarati. 

MARAUD:  To rove in quest of plunder; to make an excursion for booty; to plunder. "Marauding hosts." Milman. 

MARAUD:  An excursion for plundering. 

MARAUDER:  A rover in quest of booty or plunder; a plunderer; one who pillages. De Quincey. 

MARAVEDI:  A small copper coin of Spain, equal to three mils American money, less than a farthing sterling. Also, an ancient Spanish gold coin. 

MARBLE:  To stain or vein like marble; to variegate in color; as, to marble the edges of a book, or the surface of paper. 

MARBLED:  Varied with irregular markings, or witch a confused blending of irregular spots and streaks.  MARBLE-EDGED Mar"ble-edged`, a.  Having the edge veined or spotted with different colors like marble, as a book. 

MARBLEIZE:  To stain or grain in imitation of marble; to cover with a surface resembling marble; as, to marbleize slate, wood, or iron. 

MARBLING:  Distinct markings resembling the variegations of marble, as on birds and insects. 

MARBLY:  Containing, or resembling, marble. 

MARBRINUS:  A cloth woven so as to imitate the appearance of marble; -- much used in the 15th and 16th centuries. Beck (Draper's Dict.). 

MARC:  The refuse matter which remains after the pressure of fruit, particularly of grapes. 

MARCANTANT:  A merchant. [Obs.] Shak. 

MARCASITE:  A sulphide of iron resembling pyrite or common iron pyrites in composition, but differing in form; white iron pyrites. Golden marcasite, tin. [Obs.]  MARCASITIC; MARCASITICAL Mar`ca*sit"ic, Mar`ca*sit"ic*al, a.  Containing, or having the nature of, marcasite. 

MARCASSIN:  A young wild boar. 

MARCATO:  In a marked emphatic manner; -- used adverbially as a direction. 

MARCELINE:  A thin silk fabric used for linings, etc., in ladies' dresses. 

MARCESCENT:  Withering without 

MARCESCIBLE:  Li 

MARCH:  The third month of the year, containing thirty-one days. The stormy March is come at last, With wind, and cloud, and changing skies. Bryant. As mad as a March Hare, an old English Saying derived from the fact that March is the rutting time of hares, when they are excitable and violent. Wright. 

MARCH:  A territorial border or frontier; a region adjacent to a boundary line; a confine; -- used chiefly in the plural, and in English history applied especially to the border land on the frontiers between England and Scotland, and England and Wales. Geneva is situated in the marches of several dominions -- France, Savoy, and Switzerland. Fuller. Lords of waste marches, kings of desolate isles. Tennyson. 

MARCH:  To border; to be contiguous; to lie side by side. [Obs.] That was in a strange land Which marcheth upon Chimerie. Gower. To march with, to have the same boundary for a greater or less distance; -- said of an estate. 

MARCH:  TO cause to move with regular steps in the manner of a soldier; to cause to move in military array, or in a body, as troops; to cause to advance in a steady, regular, or stately manner; to cause to go by peremptory command, or by force. March them again in fair array. Prior. 

MARCHER:  One who marches. 

MARCHER:  The lord or officer who defended the marches or borders of a territory.  MARCHET; MERCHET Mar"chet, Mer"chet, n. Etym: [LL. marcheta; of uncertain origin.]  In old English and in Scots law, a fine paid to the lord of the soil by a tenant upon the marriage of one the tenant's daughters. 

MARCHING:  ,fr. March, v. Marching money (Mil.), the additional pay of officer or soldier when his regiment is marching.  -- In marching order (Mil.), equipped for a march.  -- Marching regiment. (Mil.) (a) A regiment in active service. (b) In England, a regiment liable to be ordered into other quarters, at home or abroad; a regiment of the line. 

MARCHIONESS:  The wife or the widow of a marquis; a woman who has the rank and dignity of a marquis. Spelman.  MARCH-MAD March"-mad`, a.  Extremely rash; foolhardy. See under March, the month. Sir W. Scott. 

MARCHMAN:  A person living in the marches between England and Scotland or Wales. 

MARCHPANE:  A kind of sweet bread or biscuit; a cake of pounded almonds and sugar. [Obs.]marzipan Shak.  MARCH-WARD March"-ward`, n.  A warden of the marches; a marcher. 

MARCIAN:  Under the influence of Mars; courageous; bold. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MARCIDITY:  The state or quality of being withered or lean. [R.] 

MARCIONITE:  A follower of Marcion, a Gnostic of the second century, who adopted the Oriental notion of the two conflicting principles, and imagined that between them there existed a third power, neither wholly good nor evil, the Creator of the world and of man, and the God of the Jewish dispensation. Brande & C. 

MARCOBRUNNER:  A celebrated Rhine wine. 

MARCONI:  Designating, or pert. to, Marconi's system of wireless telegraphy; as, Marconi aërial, coherer, station, system, etc. 

MARCONIGRAM:  A Marconi wireless message. 

MARCONIGRAPH:  The apparatus used in Marconi wireless telegraphy.  MARCONI'S LAW Mar*co"ni's law. (Wireless Teleg.)  The law that the maximum good signaling distance varies directly as the square of the height of the transmitting antenna. 

MARCONISM:  The theory or practice of Marconi's wireless telegraph system.  MARCONI SYSTEM Mar*co"ni system. (Elec.)  A system or wireless telegraphy developed by G. Marconi, an Italian physicist, in which Hertzian waves are used in transmission and a coherer is used as the receiving instrument. 

MARCOR:  A wasting away of flesh; decay. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

MARCOSIAN:  One of a Gnostic sect of the second century, so called from Marcus, an Egyptian, who was reputed to be a margician.  MARDI GRAS Mar"di` gras", n. Etym: [F., literally, fat Tuesday.]  The last day of Carnival; Shrove Tuesday; -- in some cities a great day of carnival and merrymaking. 

MARE:  The female of the horse and other equine quadrupeds. 

MARE:  Sighing, suffocative panting, intercepted utterance, with a sense of pressure across the chest, occurring during sleep; the incubus; -- obsolete, except in the compound nightmare. I will ride thee o' nights like the mare. Shak.  MARECHAL NIEL Mare"chal Niel". Etym: [F.]  A kind of large yellow rose. [Written also Marshal Niel.]  MARE CLAUSUM Ma"re clau"sum. [L.] (Internat. Law)  Lit., closed sea; hence, a body of water within the separate jurisdiction of the nation; -- opposed to open sea, the water open to all nations and over which no single nation has special control. 

MAREIS:  A Marsh. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MARENA:  A European whitefish of the genus Coregonus. 

MARESCHAL:  A military officer of high rank; a marshal. [Obs.]  MARE'S-NEST Mare's"-nest`, n.  A supposed discovery which turns out to be a hoax; something grossly absurd.  MARE'S-TAIL Mare's"-tail`, n.  1. A long streaky cloud, spreading out like a horse's tail, and believed to indicate rain; a cirrus cloud. See Cloud. Mackerel sky and mare's-tails Make tall ships carry low sails. Old Rhyme.  2. (Bot.)  An aquatic plant of the genus Hippuris (H.vulgaris), having narrow leaves in whorls. 

MARGARATE:  A compound of the so-called margaric acid with a base. 

MARGARIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, pearl; pearly. Margaric acid. (a) (Physiol. Chem.) A fatty body, crystallizing in pearly scales, and obtained by digesting saponified fats (soaps) with an acid. It was formerly supposed to be an individual fatty acid, but is now known to be simply an intimate mixture of stearic and palmitic acids. (b) (Chem.) A white, crystalline substance, C17H34O2 of the fatty acid series, intermediate between palmitic and stearic acids, and obtained from the wax of certain lichens, from cetyl cyanide, and other sources. 

MARGARIN:  A fatty substance, extracted from animal fats and certain vegetable oils, formerly supposed to be a definite compound of glycerin and margaric acid, but now known to be simply a mixture or combination of tristearin and teipalmitin. 

MARGARITACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, pearl; pearly. 

MARGARITE:  A mineral related to the micas, but low in silica and yielding brittle folia with pearly luster. 

MARGARITIC:  Margaric. 

MARGARITIFEROUS:  Producing pearls. 

MARGARODITE:  A hidrous potash mica related to muscovite. 

MARGARONE:  The ketone of margaric acid. 

MARGAROUS:  Margaric; -- formerly designating a supposed acid. [Obs.]  MARGARYIZE; MARGARY'S FLUID Mar"ga*ry*ize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -ized; p. pr. & vb. n. -izing.] [(J. J. Lloyd) Margary, inventor of the process + -ize.]  To impregnate (wood) with a preservative solution of copper sulphate (often called Mar"ga*ry's flu"id [-riz]).  MARGATE FISH Mar"gate fish". (Zoöl.)  A sparoid fish (Diabasis aurolineatus) of the Gulf of Mexico, esteemed as a food fish; -- called also red-mouth grunt. 

MARGAY:  An American wild cat (Felis tigrina), ranging from Mexico to Brazil. It is spotted with black. Called also long-tailed cat. 

MARGE:  Border; margin; edge; verge. [Poetic] Tennyson. Along the river's stony marge. Wordsworth. 

MARGENT:  A margin; border; brink; edge. [Obs.] The beached margent of the sea. Shak. 

MARGENT:  To enter or note down upon the margin of a page; to margin. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag. 

MARGIN:  The difference between the cost and the selling price of an article.  4. Something allowed, or reserved, for that which can not be foreseen or known with certainty.  5. (Brokerage)  Collateral security deposited with a broker to secure him from loss on contracts entered into by him on behalf of his principial, as in the speculative buying and selling of stocks, wheat, etc. N. Biddle. Margin draft (Masonry), a smooth cut margin on the face of hammer-dressed ashlar, adjacent to the joints.  -- Margin of a course (Arch.), that part of a course, as of slates or shingles, which is not covered by the course immediately above it. See 2d Gauge.  Syn.  -- Border; brink; verge; brim; rim. 

MARGINALIA:  Marginal notes. 

MARGINALLY:  In the margin of a book. 

MARGINATE:  Having a margin distinct in appearance or structure. 

MARGINATE:  To furnish with a distinct margin; to margin. [R.] Cockeram. 

MARGINATED:  Same as Marginate, a. 

MARGINED:  Bordered with a distinct line of color. 

MARGINELLA:  A genus of small, polished, marine univalve shells, native of all warm seas. 

MARGINICIDAL:  Dehiscent by the separation of united carpels; -- said of fruits. 

MARGOSA:  A large tree of genus Melia (M. Azadirachta) found in India. Its bark is bitter, and used as a tonic. A valuable oil is expressed from its seeds, and a tenacious gum exudes from its trunk. The M. Azedarach is a much more showy tree, and is cultivated in the Southern United States, where it is known as Pride of India, Pride of China, or bead tree. Various parts of the tree are considered anthelmintic. The margosa oil . . . is a most valuable balsam for wounds, having a peculiar smell which prevents the attacks of flies. Sir S. Baker.  MARGRAVATE; MARGRAVIATE Mar"gra*vate, Mar*gra"vi*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. margraviat.]  The territory or jurisdiction of a margrave. 

MARGRAVINE:  The wife of a margrave. 

MARGUERITE:  The daisy (Bellis perennis). The name is often applied also to the ox-eye daisy and to the China aster. Longfellow. 

MARIAN:  Pertaining to the Virgin Mary, or sometimes to Mary, Queen of England, daughter of Henry VIII. Of all the Marian martyrs, Mr. Philpot was the best-born gentleman. Fuller. Maid Marian. See Maidmarian in the Vocabulary. 

MARIE:  Marry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MARIET:  A kind of bellflower, Companula Trachelium, once called Viola Mariana; but it is not a violet. 

MARIGENOUS:  Produced in or by the sea. 

MARIGOLD:  A name for several plants with golden yellow blossoms, especially the Calendula officinalis (see Calendula), and the cultivated species of Tagetes.  Note: There are several yellow-flowered plants of different genera bearing this name; as, the African or French marigold of the genus Tagetes, of which several species and many varieties are found in gardens. They are mostly strong-smelling herbs from South America and Mexico: bur marigold, of the genus Bidens; corn marigold, of the genus Chrysanthemum (C. segetum, a pest in the cornfields of Italy); fig marigold, of the genus Mesembryanthemum; marsh marigold, of the genus Caltha (C. palustris), commonly known in America as the cowslip. See Marsh Marigold. Marigold window. (Arch.) See Rose window, under Rose. 

MARIKINA:  A small marmoset (Midas rosalia); the silky tamarin. 

MARIMBA:  A musical istrument of percussion, consisting of bars yielding musical tones when struck. Knight. 

MARIMONDA:  A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Central and South America. 

MARINADE:  A brine or pickle containing wine and spices, for enriching the flavor of meat and fish. 

MARINATE:  To salt or pickle, as fish, and then preserve in oil or vinegar; to prepare by the use of marinade. 

MARINE:  Formed by the action of the currents or waves of the sea; as, marine deposits. Marine acid (Chem.), hydrochloric acid. [Obs.] -- Marine barometer. See under Barometer.  -- Marine corps, a corps formed of the officers, noncommissioned officers, privates, and musicants of marines.  -- Marine engine (Mech.), a steam engine for propelling a vessel.  -- Marine glue. See under Glue.  -- Marine insurance, insurance against the perils of the sea, including also risks of fire, piracy, and barratry.  -- Marine interest, interest at any rate agreed on for money lent upon respondentia and bottomry bonds.  -- Marine law. See under Law.  -- Marine league, three geographical miles.  -- Marine metal, an alloy of lead, antimony, and mercury, made for sheathing ships. Mc Elrath.  -- Marine soap, cocoanut oil soap; -- so called because, being quite soluble in salt water, it is much used on shipboard.  -- Marine store, a store where old canvas, ropes, etc., are bought and sold; a junk shop. [Eng.] 

MARINED:  Having the lower part of the body like a fish. Crabb. 

MARINER:  One whose occupation is to assist in navigating ships; a seaman or sailor. Chaucer. Mariner's compass. See under Compass. 

MARINERSHIP:  Seamanship. [Obs.] Udalt. 

MARINISM:  A bombastic literary style marked by the use of metaphors and antitheses characteristic of the Italian poet Giambattista Marini (1569-1625). -- Ma*ri"nist (#), n. 

MARINORAMA:  A representation of a sea view. 

MARIOLATER:  One who worships the Virgin Mary. 

MARIOLATRY:  The worship of the Virgin Mary. 

MARIONETTE:  The buffel duck.  MARIOTTE'S LAW Ma`ri*otte's law`. (Physics.)  See Boyle's law, under Law.  MARIPOSA LILY Ma`ri*po"sa lil`y. Etym: [Sp. mariposa a butterfly + E. lily. So called from the gay apperance of the blossoms.] (Bot.)  One of a genus (Calochortus) of tuliplike bulbous herbs with large, and often gaycolored, blossoms. Called also butterfly lily. Most of them are natives of California. 

MARIPUT:  A species of civet; the zoril. 

MARISH:  Low, wet ground; a marsh; a fen; a bog; a moor. [Archaic] Milton. Tennyson. 

MARITAL:  Of or pertaining to a husband; as, marital rights, duties, authority. "Marital affection." Ayliffe. 

MARITATED:  Having a husband; married. [Obs.]  MARITIMAL; MARITIMALE Ma*rit"i*mal, Ma*rit"i*male, a.  See Maritime. [Obs.] 

MARJORAM:  A genus of mintlike plants (Origanum) comprising about twenty- five species. The sweet marjoram (O. Majorana) is pecularly aromatic and fragrant, and much used in cookery. The wild marjoram of Europe and America is O. vulgare, far less fragrant than the other. 

MARK:  A license of reprisals. See Marque. 

MARK:  A characteristic or essential attribute; a differential.  12. A number or other character used in registring; as, examination marks; a mark for tardiness.  13. Image; likeness; hence, those formed in one's image; children; descendants. [Obs.] "All the mark of Adam." Chaucer.  14. (Naut.)  One of the bits of leather or colored bunting which are placed upon a sounding line at intervals of from two to five fathoms. The unmarked fathoms are called "deeps." A man of mark, a conspicuous or eminent man.  -- To make one's mark. (a) To sign, as a letter or other writing, by making a cross or other mark. (b) To make a distinct or lasting impression on the public mind, or on affairs; to gain distinction.  Syn.  -- Impress; impression; stamp; print; trace; vestige; track; characteristic; evidence; proof; token; badge; indication; symptom. 

MARK:  To take particular notice; to observe critically; to note; to remark. Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeketh maschief. 1 Kings xx. 7. 

MARKABLE:  Remarkable. [Obs.] Sandys. 

MARKED:  Designated or distinguished by, or as by, a mark; hence; noticeable; conspicuous; as, a marked card; a marked coin; a marked instance.  -- Mark"ed*ly, adv. J. S. Mill. A marked man, a man who is noted by a community, or by a part of it, as, for excellence or depravity; -- usually with an unfavorable suggestion. 

MARKEE:  See Marquee. 

MARKER:  One who or that which marks. Specifically: (a) One who keeps account of a game played, as of billiards. (b) A counter used in card playing and other games. (c) (Mil.) The soldier who forms the pilot of a wheeling column, or marks the direction of an alignment. (d) An attachment to a sewing machine for marking a line on the fabric by creasing it. 

MARKET:  The privelege granted to a town of having a public market.  Note: Market is often used adjectively, or in forming compounds of obvious meaning; as, market basket, market day, market folk, market house, marketman, market place, market price, market rate, market wagon, market woman, and the like. Market beater, a swaggering bully; a noisy braggart. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- Market bell, a bell rung to give notice that buying and selling in a market may begin. [Eng.] Shak.  -- Market cross, a cross set up where a market is held. Shak.  -- Market garden, a garden in which vegetables are raised for market.  -- Market gardening, the raising of vegetables for market.  -- Market place, an open square or place in a town where markets or public sales are held.  -- Market town, a town that has the privilege of a stated public market. 

MARKET:  To deal in a market; to buy or sell; to make bargains for provisions or goods. 

MARKET:  To expose for sale in a market; to traffic in; to sell in a market, and in an extended sense, to sell in any manner; as, most of the farmes have marketed their crops. Industrious merchants meet, and market there The world's collected wealth. Southey. 

MARKETABLENESS:  Quality of being marketable. 

MARKETER:  One who attends a market to buy or sell; one who carries goods to market. 

MARKETSTEAD:  A market place. [Obs.] Drayton. 

MARKHOOR:  A large wild goat (Capra megaceros), having huge flattened spiral horns. It inhabits the mountains of Northern India and Cashmere. 

MARKING:  The act of one who, or that which, marks; the mark or marks made; arrangement or disposition of marks or coloring; as, the marking of a bird's plumage. Marking ink, indelible ink, because used in marking linen.  -- Marking nut (Bot.), the nut of the Semecarpus Anacardium, an East Indian tree. The shell of the nut yields a blackish resinous juice used for marking cotton cloth, and an oil prepared from it is used for rheumatism. 

MARKIS:  A marquis. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MARKISESSE:  A marchioness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MARKMAN:  A marksman. [Obs.] Shak. 

MARKSMAN:  One who makes his mark, instead of writing his name, in signing documents. Burrill. 

MARKSMANSHIP:  Skill of a marksman. 

MARL:  To cover, as part of a rope, with marline, marking a pecular hitch at each turn to prevent unwinding. Marling spike. (Naut.) See under Marline. 

MARL:  A mixed earthy substance, consisting of carbonate of lime, clay, and sand, in very varivble proportions, and accordingly designated as calcareous, clayey, or sandy. See Greensand. 

MARL:  To overspread or manure with marl; as, to marl a field. 

MARLACEOUS:  Resembling marl; partaking of the qualities of marl. 

MARLIN:  The American great marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa). Applied also to the red-breasted godwit (Limosa hæmatica). Hook-billed marlin, a curlew. 

MARLINE:  A small line composed of two strands a little twisted, used for winding around ropes and cables, to prevent their being weakened by fretting. Marline spike, Marling spike (Naut.), an iron tool tapering to a point, used to separate the strands of a rope in splicing and in marling. It has an eye in the thick end to which a lanyard is attached. See Fid. [Written also marlin spike] -- Marline-spike bird. Etym: [The name alludes to the long middle tail feathers.] (Zoöl.) (a) A tropic bird. (b) A jager, or skua gull. 

MARLINE:  To wind marline around; as, to marline a rope. 

MARLITE:  A variety of marl. 

MARLITIC:  Partaking of the qualites of marlite. 

MARLPIT:  Apit where marl is dug. 

MARLSTONE:  A sandy calcareous straum, containing, or impregnated with, iron, and lying between the upper and lower Lias of England. 

MARLY:  Consisting or partaking of marl; resembling marl; abounding with marl. 

MARMALADE:  A preserve or confection made of the pulp of fruit, as the quince, pear, apple, orange, etc., boiled with sugar, and brought to a jamlike consistence. Marmalade tree (Bot.), a sapotaceous tree (Lucuma mammosa) of the West Indies and Tropical America. It has large obovate leaves and an egg-shaped fruit from three to five inches long, containing a pleasant-flavored pulp and a single large seed. The fruit is called marmalade, or natural marmalade, from its consistency and flavor. 

MARMALET:  See Marmalade. [Obs.] 

MARMATITE:  A ferruginous variety of shalerite or zinc blende, nearly black in color. 

MARMOLITE:  A thin, laminated variety of serpentine, usually of a pale green color. 

MARMORACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or like, marble.  MARMORATE; MARMORATED Mar"mo*rate, Mar"mo*ra`ted, a. Etym: [L. marmoratus, p. p. of marmorate to overlay with marble, fr. marmor marble.]  Variegated like marble; covered or overlaid with marble. [R.] 

MARMORATION:  A covering or incrusting with marble; a casing of marble; a variegating so as to resemble marble. [R.]  MARMORATUM OPUS Mar`mo*ra`tum o"pus. Etym: [L. See Marmorate, and Opus.] (Arch.)  A kind of hard finish for plasterwork, made of plaster of Paris and marble dust, and capable of taking a high polish.  MARMOREAL; MARMOREAN Mar*mo"re*al, Mar*mo"re*an, a. Etym: [L. marmoreus, fr. marmor marble: cf. F. marmoréen. See Marble.]  Pertaining to, or resembling, marble; made of marble. 

MARMOROSIS:  The metamorphism of limestone, that is, its conversion into marble. Geikie. 

MARMOSE:  A species of small opossum (Didelphus murina) ranging from Mexico to Brazil. 

MARMOSET:  Any one of numerous species of small South American monkeys of the genera Hapale and Midas, family Hapalidæ. They have long soft fur, and a hairy, nonprehensile tail. They are often kept as pets. Called also squirrel monkey. 

MARMOT:  Any rodent of the genus Arctomys. The common European marmot (A. marmotta) is about the size of a rabbit, and inhabits the higher regions of the Alps and Pyrenees. The bobac is another European species. The common American species (A. monax) is the woodchuck.  2. Any one of several species of ground squirrels or gophers of the genus Spermophilus; also, the prairie dog. Marmot squirrel (Zoöl.), a ground squirrel or spermophile.  -- Prairie marmot. See Prairie dog.  MARMOTTES OIL Mar"mottes oil`  . A fine oil obtained from the kernel of Prunus brigantiaca. It is used instead of olive or almond oil. De Colange. 

MARMOZET:  See Marmoset. 

MARONE:  See Maroon, the color. 

MARONITE:  One of a body of nominal Christians, who speak the Arabic language, and reside on Mount Lebanon and in different parts of Syria. They take their name from one Maron of the 6th century. 

MAROON:  In the West Indies and Guiana, a fugitive slave, or a free negro, living in the mountains. 

MAROON:  To put (a person) ashore on a desolate island or coast and leave him to his fate. Marooning party, a social excursion party that sojourns several days on the shore or in some retired place; a prolonged picnic. [Southern U. S.] Bartlett. 

MAROON:  Having the color called maroon. See 4th Maroon. Maroon lake, lake prepared from madder, and distinguished for its transparency and the depth and durability of its color. 

MARPLOT:  One who, by his officious 

MARQUE:  A license to pass the limits of a jurisdiction, or boundary of a country, for the purpose of making reprisals. Letters of marque, Letters of marque and reprisal, a license or extraordinary commission granted by a government to a private person to fit out a privateer or armed ship to cruise at sea and make prize of the enemy's ships and merchandise. The ship so commissioned is sometimes called a letter of marque. 

MARQUEE:  A large field tent; esp., one adapted to the use of an officer of high rank. [Written also markee.] 

MARQUESS:  A marquis. Lady marquess, a marchioness. [Obs.] Shak. 

MARQUETRY:  Inlaid work; work inlaid with pieces of wood, shells, ivory, and the like, of several colors. 

MARQUIS:  A nobleman in England, France, and Germany, of a rank next below that of duke. Originally, the marquis was an officer whose duty was to guard the marches or frontiers of the kingdom. The office has ceased, and the name is now a mere title conferred by patent. 

MARQUISATE:  The seigniory, dignity, or lordship of a marquis; the territory governed by a marquis. 

MARQUISDOM:  A marquisate. [Obs.] "Nobles of the marquisdom of Saluce." Holinshed. 

MARQUISE:  The wife of a marquis; a marchioness. 

MARQUISSHIP:  A marquisate. 

MARRAM:  A coarse grass found on sandy beaches (Ammophila arundinacea). See Beach grass, under Beach. 

MARRER:  One who mars or injures. 

MARRIABLE:  Marriageable. [R.] Coleridge. 

MARRIAGEABILITY:  The quality or state of being marriageable. 

MARRIAGEABLE:  Fit for, or capable of, marriage; of an age at which marriage is allowable.  -- Mar"riage*a*ble*ness, n. 

MARRIER:  One who marries. 

MARRON:  A paper or pasteboard box or shell, wound about with strong twine, filled with an explosive, and ignited with a fuse, -- used to make a noise like a cannon. [Written also maroon.] 

MARROON:  Same as 1st Maroon. 

MARROW:  The tissue which fills the cavities of most bones; the medulla. In the larger cavities it is commonly very fatty, but in the smaller cavities it is much less fatty, and red or reddish in color.  2. The essence; the best part. It takes from our achievements . . . The pith and marrow of our attribute. Shak.  3. Etym: [OE. maru, maro; -- perh. a different word; cf. Gael. maraon together.]  One of a pair; a match; a companion; an intimate associate. [Scot.] Chopping and changing I can not commend, With thief or his marrow, for fear of ill end. Tusser. Marrow squash (Bot.), a name given to several varieties of squash, esp. to the Boston marrow, an ovoid fruit, pointed at both ends, and with reddish yellow flesh, and to the vegetable marrow, a variety of an ovoid form, and having a soft texture and fine grain resembling marrow.  -- Spinal marrow. (Anat.) See Spinal cord, under Spinal. 

MARROW:  To fill with, or as with, marrow of fat; to glut. 

MARROWBONE:  A bone containing marrow; pl. ludicrously, knee bones or knees; as, to get down on one's marrowbones, i. e., to kneel. 

MARROWFAT:  A rich but late variety of pea. 

MARROWISH:  Of the nature of, or like, marrow. 

MARROWLESS:  Destitute of marrow. 

MARROWY:  Full of marrow; pithy. 

MARRUBIUM:  A genus of bitter aromatic plants, sometimes used in medicine; hoarhound. 

MARRY:  To enter into the conjugal or connubial state; to take a husband or a wife. I will, therefore, that the younger women marry. 1 Tim. v. 14. Marrrying man, a man disposed to marry. [Colloq.] 

MARRY:  Indeed ! in truth ! -- a term of asseveration said to have been derived from the practice of swearing by the Virgin Mary. [Obs.] Shak. 

MARS:  The god of war and husbandry.  2. (Astron.)  One of the planets of the solar system, the fourth in order from the sun, or the next beyond the earth, having a diameter of about 4,200 miles, a period of 687 days, and a mean distance of 141,000,000 miles. It is conspicuous for the redness of its light.  3. (Alchemy)  The metallic element iron, the symbol of which was the same as that of the planet Mars. [Archaic] Chaucer. Mars brown, a bright, somewhat yellowish, brown. 

MARSALA:  A kind of wine exported from Marsala in Sicily. 

MARSDENIA:  A genus of plants of the Milkweed family, mostly woody climbers with fragrant flowers, several species of which furnish valuable fiber, and one species (Marsdenia tinctoria) affords indigo.  MARSEILLAIS; MARSEILLAISE Mar`sei`llais", a. m. Mar`sei`llaise", a. f.Etym: [F.]  Of or pertaining to Marseilles, in France, or to its inhabitants. Marseillaise hymn, or The Marseillaise, the national anthem of France, popularly so called. It was composed in 1792, by Rouget de l'Isle, an officer then stationed at Strasburg. In Paris it was sung for the first time by the band of men who came from Marseilles to aid in the revolution of August 10, 1792; whence the name.  MARSEILLAIS; MARSEILLAISE Mar`sei`llais", n. m. Mar`sei`llaise", n. f.Etym: [F.]  A native or inhabitant of Marseilles. 

MARSEILLES:  A general term for certain kinds of fabrics, which are formed of two series of threads interlacing each other, thus forming double cloth, quilted in the loom; -- so named because first made in Marseilles, France. 

MARSH:  A tract of soft wet land, commonly covered partially or wholly with water; a fen; a swamp; a morass. [Written also marish.] Marsh asphodel (Bot.), a plant (Nartheeium ossifragum) with linear equitant leaves, and a raceme of small white flowers; -- called also bog asphodel.  -- Marsh cinquefoil (Bot.), a plant (Potentilla palustris) having purple flowers, and found growing in marshy places; marsh five- finger.  -- Marsh elder. (Bot.) (a) The guelder-rose or cranberry tree (Viburnum Opulus). (b) In the United States, a composite shrub growing in salt marshes (Iva frutescens).  -- Marsh five-finger. (Bot.) See Marsh cinquefoil (above).  -- Marsh gas. (Chem.) See under Gas.  -- Marsh grass (Bot.), a genus (Spartina) of coarse grasses growing in marshes; -- called also cord grass. The tall S. cynosuroides is not good for hay unless cut very young. The low S. juncea is a common component of salt hay.  -- Marsh harrier (Zoöl.), a European hawk or harrier (Circus æruginosus); -- called also marsh hawk, moor hawk, moor buzzard, puttock.  -- Marsh hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A hawk or harrier (Circus cyaneus), native of both America and Europe. The adults are bluish slate above, with a white rump. Called also hen harrier, and mouse hawk. (b) The marsh harrier.  -- Marsh hen (Zoöl.), a rail; esp., Rallus elegans of fresh-water marshes, and R. longirostris of salt-water marshes.  -- Marsh mallow (Bot.), a plant of the genus Althæa ( A. officinalis) common in marshes near the seashore, and whose root is much used in medicine as a demulcent.  -- Marsh marigold. (Bot.) See in the Vocabulary.  -- Marsh pennywort (Bot.), any plant of the umbelliferous genus Hydrocotyle; low herbs with roundish leaves, growing in wet places; - - called also water pennywort.  -- Marsh quail (Zoöl.), the meadow lark.  -- Marsh rosemary (Bot.), a plant of the genus Statice (S. Limonium), common in salt marshes. Its root is powerfully astringent, and is sometimes used in medicine. Called also sea lavender.  -- Marsh samphire (Bot.), a plant (Salicornia herbacea) found along seacoasts. See Glasswort.  -- Marsh St. John's-wort (Bot.), an American herb (Elodes Virginica) with small opposite leaves and flesh-colored flowers.  -- Marsh tea. (Bot.). Same as Labrador tea.  -- Marsh trefoil. (Bot.) Same as Buckbean.  -- Marsh wren (Zoöl.), any species of small American wrens of the genus Cistothorus, and allied genera. They chiefly inhabit salt marshes. 

MARSHAL:  To dispose in due order, as the different quarterings on an escutcheon, or the different crests when several belong to an achievement. 

MARSHALER:  One who marshals. 

MARSHALING:  The arrangement of an escutcheon to exhibit the alliances of the owner. Marshaling of assets (Law), the arranging or ranking of assets in due order of administration. 

MARSHALSEA:  The court or seat of a marshal; hence, the prison in Southwark, belonging to the marshal of the king's household. [Eng.] Court of Marshalsea, a court formerly held before the steward and marshal of the king's house to administer justice between the king's domestic servants. Blackstone. 

MARSHALSHIP:  The office of a marshal.  MARSHBANKER; MARSEBANKER Marsh"bank`er, Marse"bank`er, n. (Zoöl.)  The menhaden. 

MARSHINESS:  The state or condition of being marshy.  MARSH MARIGOLD Marsh mar"i*gold  . (Bot.) A perennial plant of the genus Caltha (C. palustris), growing in wet places and bearing bright yellow flowers. In the United States it is used as a pot herb under the name of cowslip. See Cowslip. 

MARSIPOBRANCH:  One of the Marsipobranchia. 

MARSIPOBRANCHIA:  A class of Vertebrata, lower than fishes, characterized by their purselike gill cavities, cartilaginous skeletons, absence of limbs, and a suckerlike mouth destitute of jaws. It includes the lampreys and hagfishes. See Cyclostoma, and Lamprey. Called also Marsipobranchiata, and Marsipobranchii. 

MARSUPIAL:  Having a pouch for carrying the immature young; of or pertaining to the Marsupialia.  2. (Anat. & Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to a marsupium; as, the marsupial bones. Marsupial frog. (Zoöl.) See Nototrema. 

MARSUPIAL:  One of the Marsupialia. 

MARSUPIALIA:  A subclass of Mammalia, including nearly all the mammals of Australia and the adjacent islands, together with the opossums of America. They differ from ordinary mammals in having the corpus callosum very small, in being implacental, and in having their young born while very immature. The female generally carries the young for some time after birth in an external pouch, or marsupium. Called also Marsupiata.  MARSUPIALIAN; MARSUPIAN Mar*su`pi*a"li*an, Mar*su"pi*an, n. (Zoöl.)  One of the Marsupialia. 

MARSUPIATE:  Related to or resembling the marsupials; furnished with a pouch for the young, as the marsupials, and also some fishes and Crustacea. 

MARSUPION:  Same as Marsupium. 

MARSUPITE:  A fossil crinoid of the genus Marsupites, resembling a purse in form. 

MART:  To buy or sell in, or as in, a mart. [Obs.] To sell and mart your officer for gold To undeservers. Shak. 

MART:  To traffic. [Obs.] Shak. 

MARTAGON:  A lily (Lilium Martagon) with purplish red flowers, found in Europe and Asia. 

MARTEL:  To make a blow with, or as with, a hammer. [Obs.] Spenser.  MARTEL DE FER Mar`tel` de fer". Etym: [OF., hammer of iron.]  A weapon resembling a hammer, often having one side of the head pointed; -- used by horsemen in the Middle Ages to break armor. Fairholt. 

MARTELINE:  A small hammer used by marble workers and sculptors.  MARTELLO TOWER Mar*tel"lo tow`er. Etym: [It. martello hammer. The name was orig. given to towers erected on the coasts of Sicily and Sardinia for protection against the pirates in the time of Charles the Fifth, which prob. orig. contained an alarm bell to be struck with a hammer. See Martel.] (Fort.)  A building of masonry, generally circular, usually erected on the seacoast, with a gun on the summit mounted on a traversing platform, so as to be fired in any direction.  Note: The English borrowed the name of the tower from Corsica in 1794. 

MARTEN:  A bird. See Martin. 

MARTEN:  Any one of several fur-bearing carnivores of the genus Mustela, closely allied to the sable. Among the more important species are the European beech, or stone, marten (Mustela foina); the pine marten (M. martes); and the American marten, or sable (M. Americana), which some zoölogists consider only a variety of the Russian sable.  2. The fur of the marten, used for hats, muffs, etc. 

MARTERN:  Same as Marten. [Obs.]  MAR-TEXT Mar"-text`, n.  A blundering preacher. 

MARTIAL:  Pertaining to, or containing, iron; chalybeate; as, martial preparations. [Archaic] Martial flowers (Med.), a reddish crystalline salt of iron; the ammonio-chloride of iron. [Obs.] -- Martial law, the law administered by the military power of a government when it has superseded the civil authority in time of war, or when the civil authorities are unable to enforce the laws. It is distinguished from military law, the latter being the code of rules for the regulation of the army and navy alone, either in peace or in war.  Syn.  -- Martial, Warlike. Martial refers more to war in action, its array, its attendants, etc.; as, martial music, a martial appearance, a martial array, courts-martial, etc. Warlike describes the feeling or temper which leads to war, and the adjuncts of war; as, a warlike nation, warlike indication, etc. The two words are often used without discrimination. 

MARTIALISM:  The quality of being warlike; exercises suitable for war. [Obs.] 

MARTIALIST:  A warrior. [Obs.] Fuller. 

MARTIALIZE:  To render warlike; as, to martialize a people. 

MARTIALLY:  In a martial manner. 

MARTIALNESS:  The quality of being martial. 

MARTIAN:  Of or pertaining to Mars, the Roman god of war, or to the planet bearing his name; martial. 

MARTIAN:  An inhabitant of the planet Mars.  Du Maurier. 

MARTIN:  A perforated stone-faced runner for grinding. 

MARTIN:  One of several species of swallows, usually having the tail less deeply forked than the tail of the common swallows. [Written also marten.]  Note: The American purple martin, or bee martin (Progne subis, or purpurea), and the European house, or window, martin (Hirundo, or Chelidon, urbica), are the best known species. Bank martin. (a) The bank swallow. See under Bank. (b) The fairy martin. See under Fairy.  -- Bee martin. (a) The purple martin. (b) The kingbird.  -- Sand martin, the bank swallow. 

MARTINET:  In military language, a strict disciplinarian; in general, one who lays stress on a rigid adherence to the details of discipline, or to forms and fixed methods. [Hence, the word is commonly employed in a depreciatory sense.] 

MARTINET:  The martin. 

MARTINETA:  A species of tinamou (Calopezus elegans), having a long slender crest. 

MARTINETISM:  The principles or practices of a martinet; rigid adherence to discipline, etc.  MARTINGALE; MARTINGAL Mar"tin*gale, Mar"tin*gal, n. Etym: [F. martingale; cf. It. martingala a sort of hose, martingale, Sp. martingala a greave, cuish, martingale, Sp. almártaga a kind of bridle.]  1. A strap fastened to a horse's girth, passing between his fore legs, and fastened to the bit, or now more commonly ending in two rings, through which the reins pass. It is intended to hold down the head of the horse, and prevent him from rearing.  2. (Naut.)  A lower stay of rope or chain for the jib boom or flying jib boom, fastened to, or reeved through, the dolphin striker. Also, the dolphin striker itself.  3. (Gambling)  The act of doubling, at each stake, that which has been lost on the preceding stake; also, the sum so risked; -- metaphorically derived from the bifurcation of the martingale of a harness. [Cant] Thackeray. 

MARTINMAS:  The feast of St. Martin, the eleventh of November; -- often called martlemans. Martinmas summer, a period of calm, warm weather often experienced about the time of Martinmas; Indian summer. Percy Smith. 

MARTITE:  Iron sesquioxide in isometric form, probably a pseudomorph after magnetite. 

MARTLEMAS:  See Martinmas. [Obs.] 

MARTLET:  The European house martin.  2. Etym: [Cf. F. merlette.] (Her.)  A bird without beak or feet; -- generally assumed to represent a martin. As a mark of cadency it denotes the fourth son. 

MARTYRIZATION:  Act of martyrizing, or state of being martyrized; torture. B. Jonson. 

MARTYRIZE:  To make a martyr of. Spenser. 

MARTYRLY:  In the manner of a martyr. 

MARTYROLOGE:  A martyrology. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.  MARTYROLOGIC; MARTYROLOGICAL Mar`tyr*o*log"ic, Mar`tyr*o*log"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to martyrology or martyrs; registering, or registered in, a catalogue of martyrs. 

MARTYROLOGIST:  A writer of martyrology; an historian of martyrs. T. Warton. 

MARTYROLOGY:  A history or account of martyrs; a register of martyrs. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

MARTYRSHIP:  Martyrdom. [R.] Fuller. 

MARVEL:  To be struck with surprise, astonishment, or wonder; to wonder. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. 1 john iii. 13. 

MARVELOUSLY:  In a marvelous manner; wonderfully; strangely. 

MARVELOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being marvelous; wonderfulness; strangeness. 

MARVER:  A stone, or cast-iron plate, or former, on which hot glass is rolled to give it shape. 

MARY:  Marrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MARY:  See Marry. [Obs.] Chaucer.  MARY-BUD Ma"ry-bud`, n. (Bot.)  The marigold; a blossom of the marigold. Shak. 

MARYOLATRY:  Mariolatry. 

MARYSOLE:  A large British fluke, or flounder (Rhombus megastoma); -- called also carter, and whiff. marchpane.  MASCAGNIN; MASCAGNITE Mas*ca"gnin, Mas*ca"gnite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. mascagnin.] (Min.)  Native sulphate of ammonia, found in volcanic districts; -- so named from Mascagni, who discovered it. 

MASCLE:  A lozenge voided. 

MASCLED:  Composed of, or covered with, lozenge-shaped scales; having lozenge-shaped divisions. Mascled armor, armor composed of small lozenge-shaped scales of metal fastened on a foundation of leather or quilted cloth.  MASCOT; MASCOTTE Mas"cot, Mas"cotte, n. Etym: [Through French fr. Pr. mascot a little sorcerer or magician, mascotto witchcraft, sorcery.]  A person who is supposed to bring good luck to the household to which he or she belongs; anything that brings good luck. 

MASCULATE:  To make strong. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

MASCULINE:  Having the inflections of, or construed with, words pertaining especially to male beings, as distinguished from feminine and neuter. See Gender.  -- Mas"cu*line*ly, adv.  -- Mas"cu*line*ness, n. 

MASCULINITY:  The state or quality of being masculine; masculineness. 

MASE:  See Maze. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MASELYN:  A drinking cup. See 1st Maslin, 2. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MASER:  Same as Mazer. 

MASH:  A mesh. [Obs.] 

MASH:  To convert into a mash; to reduce to a soft pulpy state by beating or pressure; to bruise; to crush; as, to mash apples in a mill, or potatoes with a pestle. Specifically (Brewing), to convert, as malt, or malt and meal, into the mash which makes wort. Mashing tub, a tub for making the mash in breweries and distilleries; -- called also mash tun, and mash vat. 

MASHER:  A golf club like the iron, but with a shorter head, slightly more lofted, used chiefly for short approaches. 

MASHLIN:  See Maslin. 

MASHY:  Produced by crushing or bruising; resembling, or consisting of, a mash. 

MASK:  A grotesque head or face, used to adorn keystones and other prominent parts, to spout water in fountains, and the like; -- called also mascaron.  6. (Fort.) (a) In a permanent fortification, a redoubt which protects the caponiere. (b) A screen for a battery.  7. (Zoöl.)  The lower lip of the larva of a dragon fly, modified so as to form a prehensile organ. Mask house, a house for masquerades. [Obs.] 

MASKED:  Same as Personate.  3. (Zoöl.)  Having the anterior part of the head differing decidedly in color from the rest of the plumage; -- said of birds. Masked ball, a ball in which the dancers wear masks.  -- Masked battery (Mil.), a battery so placed as not to be seen by an enemy until it opens fire. H. L. Scott.  -- Masked crab (Zoöl.), a European crab (Corystes cassivelaunus) with markings on the carapace somewhat resembling a human face.  -- Masked pig (Zoöl.), a Japanese domestic hog (Sus pliciceps). Its face is deeply furrowed. 

MASKER:  One who wears a mask; one who appears in disguise at a masquerade. 

MASKER:  To confuse; to stupefy. [Obs.] Holland. 

MASKERY:  The dress or disguise of a maske [Obs.] Marston. 

MASKINONGE:  The muskellunge.  MASK SHELL Mask" shell`. (Zoöl.)  Any spiral marine shell of the genus Persona, having a curiously twisted aperture. 

MASLACH:  An excitant containing opium, much used by the Turks. Dunglison. 

MASLIN:  Composed of different sorts; as, maslin bread, which is made of rye mixed with a little wheat. [Written also meslin, mislin, etc.] 

MASON:  To build stonework or brickwork about, under, in, over, etc.; to construct by masons; -- with a prepositional suffix; as, to mason up a well or terrace; to mason in a kettle or boiler. 

MASONIC:  Of or pertaining to Freemasons or to their craft or mysteries. 

MASONRY:  . A kind of boat used on the coast of Madras, India. The planks are sewed together with strands of coir which cross over a wadding of the same material, so that the shock on taking the beach through surf is much reduced. [Written also masula, masulah, etc.] 

MASORA:  A Jewish critical work on the text of the Hebrew Scriptures, composed by several learned rabbis of the school of Tiberias, in the eighth and ninth centuries. [Written also Masorah, Massora, and Massorah.] 

MASORET:  A Masorite. [Written also Masorete, and Massorete.]  MASORETIC; MASORETICAL Mas`o*ret"ic, Mas`o*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. massorétique.]  Of or relating to the Masora, or to its authors. Masoretic points and accents, the vowel points and accents of the Hebrew text of the Bible, of which the first mention is in the Masora. 

MASORITE:  One of the writers of the Masora. 

MASQUE:  A mask; a masquerade. 

MASQUERADE:  To conceal with masks; to disguise. "To masquerade vice." Killingbeck. 

MASQUERADER:  One who masquerades; a person wearing a mask; one disguised. 

MASS:  The sacrifice in the sacrament of the Eucharist, or the consecration and oblation of the host.  2. (Mus.)  The portions of the Mass usually set to music, considered as a musical composition; -- namely, the Kyrie, the Gloria, the Credo, the Sanctus, and the Agnus Dei, besides sometimes an Offertory and the Benedictus. Canon of the Mass. See Canon.  -- High Mass, Mass with incense, music, the assistance of a deacon, subdeacon, etc.  -- Low Mass, Mass which is said by the priest through-out, without music.  -- Mass bell, the sanctus bell. See Sanctus.  -- Mass book, the missal or Roman Catholic service book. 

MASS:  To celebrate Mass. [Obs.] Hooker. 

MASS:  A medicinal substance made into a cohesive, homogeneous lump, of consistency suitable for making pills; as, blue mass.  3. A large quantity; a sum. All the mass of gold that comes into Spain. Sir W. Raleigh. He had spent a huge mass of treasure. Sir J. Davies.  4. Bulk; magnitude; body; size. This army of such mass and charge. Shak.  5. The principal part; the main body. Night closed upon the pursuit, and aided the mass of the fugitives in their escape. Jowett (Thucyd.).  6. (Physics)  The quantity of matter which a body contains, irrespective of its bulk or volume.  Note: Mass and weight are often used, in a general way, as interchangeable terms, since the weight of a body is proportional to its mass (under the same or equal gravitative forces), and the mass is usually ascertained from the weight. Yet the two ideas, mass and weight, are quite distinct. Mass is the quantity of matter in a body; weight is the comparative force with which it tends towards the center of the earth. A mass of sugar and a mass of lead are assumed to be equal when they show an equal weight by balancing each other in the scales. Blue mass. See under Blue.  -- Mass center (Geom.), the center of gravity of a triangle.  -- Mass copper, native copper in a large mass.  -- Mass meeting, a large or general assembly of people, usually a meeting having some relation to politics.  -- The masses, the great body of the people, as contrasted with the higher classes; the populace. 

MASS:  To form or collect into a mass; to form into a collective body; to bring together into masses; to assemble. But mass them together and they are terrible indeed. Coleridge. 

MASSACRE:  To kill in considerable numbers where much resistance can not be made; to kill with indiscriminate violence, without necessity, and contrary to the usages of nations; to butcher; to slaughter; -- limited to the killing of human beings. If James should be pleased to massacre them all, as Maximian had massacred the Theban legion. Macaulay. 

MASSACRER:  One who massacres. [R.] 

MASSAGE:  A rubbing or kneading of the body, especially when performed as a hygienic or remedial measure. 

MASSAGIST:  One who practices massage; a masseur or masseuse. 

MASSASAUGA:  The black rattlesnake (Crotalus, or Caudisona, tergemina), found in the Mississippi Valley.  MASSE; MASSE SHOT Massé, or Masse shot, n. (Billiards)  A stroke made with the cue held vertically. 

MASSER:  A priest who celebrates Mass. [R.] Bale. 

MASSETER:  The large muscle which raises the under jaw, and assists in mastication. 

MASSETERIC:  Of or pertaining to the masseter. 

MASSETERINE:  Masseteric.  MASSEUR; MASSEUSE Mas`seur", n. m., Mas`seuse", n. f.,} Etym: [F., or formed in imitation of French. See Massage.] (Med.)  One who performs massage. 

MASSICOT:  Lead protoxide, PbO, obtained as a yellow amorphous powder, the fused and crystalline form of which is called litharge; lead ocher. It is used as a pigment.  Note: Massicot is sometimes used by painters, and also as a drier in the composition of ointments and plasters. 

MASSINESS:  The state or quality of being massy; ponderousness. 

MASSIVE:  In mass; not necessarily without a crystalline structure, but having no regular form; as, a mineral occurs massive. Massive rock (Geol.), a compact crystalline rock not distinctly schistone, as granite; also, with some authors, an eruptive rock. 

MASSIVELY:  In a heavy mass. 

MASSIVENESS:  The state or quality of being massive; massiness.  MASSOOLA BOAT Mas*soo"la boat`.  See Masoola boat. 

MASSORA:  Same as Masora. 

MASSORET:  Same as Masorite. 

MASSY:  Compacted into, or consisting of, a mass; having bulk and weight ot substance; ponderous; bulky and heavy; weight; heavy; as, a massy shield; a massy rock. Your swords are now too massy for your strengths, And will not be uplifted. Shak. Yawning rocks in massy fragments fly. Pope. 

MAST:  The fruit of the oak and beech, or other forest trees; nuts; acorns. Oak mast, and beech, . . . they eat. Chapman. Swine under an oak filling themselves with the mast. South. 

MAST:  A pole, or long, strong, round piece of timber, or spar, set upright in a boat or vessel, to sustain the sails, yards, rigging, etc. A mast may also consist of several pieces of timber united by iron bands, or of a hollow pillar of iron or steel. The tallest pine Hewn on Norwegian hills, to be the mast Of some great ammiral. Milton.  Note: The most common general names of masts are foremast, mainmast, and mizzenmast, each of which may be made of separate spars.  2. (Mach.)  The vertical post of a derrick or crane. Afore the mast, Before the mast. See under Afore, and Before.  -- Mast coat. See under Coat.  -- Mast hoop, one of a number of hoops attached to the fore edge of a boom sail, which slip on the mast as the sail is raised or lowered; also, one of the iron hoops used in making a made mast. See Made. 

MAST:  To furnish with a mast or masts; to put the masts of in position; as, to mast a ship.  MASTABA; MASTABAH Mas"ta*ba, n. Also Mas"ta*bah . [Ar. maçtabah a large stone bench.]  1. In Mohammedan countries, a fixed seat, common in dwellings and in public places.  2.  (Egyptology) A type of tomb, of the time of the Memphite dynasties, comprising an oblong structure with sloping sides (sometimes containing a decorated chamber, sometimes of solid masonry), and connected with a mummy chamber in the rock beneath. 

MASTED:  Furnished with a mast or masts; -- chiefly in composition; as, a three-masted schooner. 

MASTER:  A vessel having (so many) masts; -- used only in compounds; as, a two-master. 

MASTER:  The commander of a merchant vessel; -- usually called captain. Also, a commissioned officer in the navy ranking next above ensign and below lieutenant; formerly, an officer on a man-of-war who had immediate charge, under the commander, of sailing the vessel.  7. A person holding an office of authority among the Freemasons, esp. the presiding officer; also, a person holding a similar office in other civic societies. Little masters, certain German engravers of the 16th century, so called from the extreme smallness of their prints.  -- Master in chancery, an officer of courts of equity, who acts as an assistant to the chancellor or judge, by inquiring into various matters referred to him, and reporting thereon to the court.  -- Master of arts, one who takes the second degree at a university; also, the degree or title itself, indicated by the abbreviation M. A., or A. M.  -- Master of the horse, the third great officer in the British court, having the management of the royal stables, etc. In ceremonial cavalcades he rides next to the sovereign.  -- Master of the rolls, in England, an officer who has charge of the rolls and patents that pass the great seal, and of the records of the chancery, and acts as assistant judge of the court. Bouvier. Wharton.  -- Past master, one who has held the office of master in a lodge of Freemasons or in a society similarly organized.  -- The old masters, distinguished painters who preceded modern painters; especially, the celebrated painters of the 16th and 17th centuries.  -- To be master of one's self, to have entire self-control; not to be governed by passion.  -- To be one's own master, to be at liberty to act as one chooses without dictation from anybody.  Note: Master, signifying chief, principal, masterly, superior, thoroughly skilled, etc., is often used adjiectively or in compounds; as, master builder or master-builder, master chord or master-chord, master mason or master-mason, master workman or master-workman, master mechanic, master mind, master spirit, master passion, etc. Throughout the city by the master gate. Chaucer. Master joint (Geol.), a quarryman's term for the more prominent and extended joints traversing a rock mass.  -- Master key, a key adapted to open several locks differing somewhat from each other; figuratively, a rule or principle of general application in solving difficulties.  -- Master lode (Mining), the principal vein of ore.  -- Master mariner, an experienced and skilled seaman who is certified to be competent to command a merchant vessel.  -- Master sinew (Far.), a large sinew that surrounds the hough of a horse, and divides it from the bone by a hollow place, where the windgalls are usually seated.  -- Master singer. See Mastersinger.  -- Master stroke, a capital performance; a masterly achievement; a consummate action; as, a master stroke of policy.  -- Master tap (Mech.), a tap for forming the thread in a screw cutting die.  -- Master touch. (a) The touch or skill of a master. Pope. (b) Some part of a performance which exhibits very skillful work or treatment. "Some master touches of this admirable piece." Tatler.  -- Master work, the most important work accomplished by a skilled person, as in architecture, literature, etc.; also, a work which shows the skill of a master; a masterpiece.  -- Master workman, a man specially skilled in any art, handicraft, or trade, or who is an overseer, foreman, or employer. 

MASTER:  To be skillful; to excel. [Obs.] 

MASTERDOM:  Dominion; rule; command. [R.] Shak. 

MASTERFULLY:  In a masterful manner; imperiously. A lawless and rebellious man who held lands masterfully and in high contempt of the royal authority. Macaulay. 

MASTERHOOD:  The state of being a master; hence, disposition to command or hector. C. Bronté. 

MASTERLESS:  Destitute of a master or owner; ungoverned or ungovernable.  -- Mas"ter*less*ness, n. 

MASTERLINESS:  The quality or state of being masterly; ability to control wisely or skillfully. 

MASTERLY:  With the skill of a master. Thou dost speak masterly. Shak. 

MASTEROUS:  Masterly. [Obs.] Milton. 

MASTERPIECE:  Anything done or made with extraordinary skill; a capital performance; a chef-d'oeuvre; a supreme achievement. The top and masterpiece of art. South. Dissimulation was his masterpiece. Claredon. 

MASTERSINGER:  One of a class of poets which flourished in Nuremberg and some other cities of Germany in the 15th and 16th centuries. They bound themselves to observe certain arbitrary laws of rhythm.  MASTER VIBRATOR Mas"ter vi"bra*tor.  In an internal-combustion engine with two or more cylinders, an induction coil and vibrator placed in the circuit between the battery or magneto and the coils for the different cylinders, which are used without vibrators of their own. 

MASTFUL:  Abounding in mast; producing mast in abundance; as, the mastful forest; a mastful chestnut. Dryden. 

MASTHEAD:  The top or head of a mast; the part of a mast above the hounds. 

MASTHEAD:  To cause to go to the masthead as a punishment. Marryat. 

MASTHOUSE:  A building in which vessels' masts are shaped, fitted, etc. 

MASTIC:  A low shrubby tree of the genus Pistacia (P. Lentiscus), growing upon the islands and coasts of the Mediterranean, and producing a valuable resin; -- called also, mastic tree.  2. A resin exuding from the mastic tree, and obtained by incision. The best is in yellowish white, semitransparent tears, of a faint smell, and is used as an astringent and an aromatic, also as an ingredient in varnishes.  3. A kind of cement composed of burnt clay, litharge, and linseed oil, used for plastering walls, etc. Barbary mastic (Bot.), the Pistachia Atlantica.  -- Peruvian mastic tree (Bot.), a small tree (Schinus Molle) with peppery red berries; -- called also pepper tree.  -- West Indian mastic (Bot.), a lofty tree (Bursera gummifera) full of gum resin in every part. 

MASTICABLE:  Capable of being masticated. 

MASTICADOR:  A part of a bridle, the slavering bit. [Written also mastigador.] 

MASTICATE:  To grind or crush with, or as with, the teeth and prepare for swallowing and digestion; to chew; as, to masticate food. 

MASTICATER:  One who masticates. 

MASTICATION:  The act or operation of masticating; chewing, as of food. Mastication is a necessary preparation of solid aliment, without which there can be no good digestion. Arbuthnot. 

MASTICATORY:  Chewing; adapted to perform the office o 

MASTICATORY:  A substance to be chewed to increase the saliva. Bacon. 

MASTICH:  See Mastic. 

MASTICIN:  A white, amorphous, tenacious substance resembling caoutchouc, and obtained as an insoluble residue of mastic. 

MASTICOT:  Massicot. [Obs.] 

MASTIFF:  A breed of large dogs noted for strength and courage. There are various strains, differing in form and color, and characteristic of different countries. Mastiff bat (Zoöl.) , any bat of the genus Molossus; so called because the face somewhat resembles that of a mastiff. 

MASTIGOPOD:  One of the Mastigopoda. 

MASTIGOPODA:  The Infusoria. 

MASTIGURE:  Any one of several large spiny-tailed lizards of the genus Uromastix. They inhabit Southern Asia and North Africa. 

MASTING:  The act or process of putting a mast or masts into a vessel; also, the scientific principles which determine the position of masts, and the mechanical methods of placing them. Masting house (Naut.), a large building, with suitable mechanism overhanging the water, used for stepping and unstepping the masts of vessels. 

MASTITIS:  Inflammation of the breast. 

MASTLESS:  Bearing no mast; as, a mastless oak or beech. Dryden. 

MASTLESS:  Having no mast; as, a mastless vessel. 

MASTLIN:  See Maslin. 

MASTODON:  An extinct genus of mammals closely allied to the elephant, but having less complex molar teeth, and often a pair of lower, as well as upper, tusks, which are incisor teeth. The species were mostly larger than elephants, and their romains occur in nearly all parts of the world in deposits ranging from Miocene to late Quaternary time. 

MASTODONSAURUS:  A large extinct genus of labyrinthodonts, found in the European Triassic rocks. 

MASTODONTIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a mastodon; as, mastodontic dimensions. Everett.  MASTODYNIA; MASTODYNY Mas`to*dyn"i*a, Mas*tod"y*ny (, n. Etym: [NL. mastodynia, fr. Gr. (Med.)  Pain occuring in the mamma or female breast, -- a form of neuralgia. 

MASTOIDAL:  Same as Mastoid. 

MASTOIDITIS:  Inflammation in the mastoid process of the temporal bone. 

MASTOLOGY:  The natural history of Mammalia. 

MASTRESS:  Mistress. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MASTURBATION:  Onanism; self-pollution. 

MASTY:  Full of mast; abounding in acorns, etc.  MASULA BOAT Ma*su"la boat`.  Same as Masoola boat. 

MAT:  A name given by coppersmiths to an alloy of copper, tin, iron, etc., usually called white metal. [Written also matt.] 

MAT:  Cast down; dejected; overthrown; slain. [Obs.] When he saw them so piteous and so maat. Chaucer. 

MAT:  To grow thick together; to become interwoven or felted together like a mat.  MATABELE; MATABELES Mat`a*be"le, or Mat`a*be"les, n. pl., sing. Matabele. [Written also Matabili.] (Ethnol.)  A warlike South African Kaffir tribe. 

MATACHIN:  An old dance with swords and bucklers; a sword dance. 

MATACO:  The three-banded armadillo (Tolypeutis tricinctus). See Illust. under Loricata.  MATADORE; MATADOR Mat"a*dore, Mat"a*dor, n. Etym: [Sp. matador, prop., a killer, fr. matar to kill, L. mactare to sacrifice, kill.]  1. The killer; the man appointed to kill the bull in bullfights.  2. (Card Playing)  In the game of quadrille or omber, the three principal trumps, the ace of spades being the first, the ace of clubs the third, and the second being the deuce of a black trump or the seven of a red one. When Lady Tricksey played a four, You took it with a matadore. Swift. 

MATAGASSE:  A shrike or butcher bird; -- called also mattages. [Prov. Eng.] 

MATAJUELO:  A large squirrel fish (Holocentrus ascensionis) of Florida and the West Indies.  MATAJUELO BLANCO Ma`ta*jue"lo blan"co. [Sp. blanco white.]  A West Indian food fish (Malacanthus plumieri) related to the tilefish. 

MATAMATA:  The bearded tortoise (Chelys fimbriata) of South American rivers. 

MATANZA:  A place where animals are slaughtered for their hides and tallow. [Western U. S.] 

MATCH:  Anything used for catching and retaining or communicating fire, made of some substance which takes fire readily, or remains burning some time; esp., a small strip or splint of wood dipped at one end in a substance which can be easily ignited by friction, as a preparation of phosphorus or chlorate of potassium. Match box, a box for holding matches.  -- Match tub, a tub with a perforated cover for holding slow matches for firing cannon, esp. on board ship. The tub contains a little water in the bottom, for extinguishing sparks from the lighted matches.  -- Quick match, threads of cotton or cotton wick soaked in a solution of gunpowder mixed with gum arabic and boiling water and afterwards strewed over with mealed powder. It burns at the rate of one yard in thirteen seconds, and is used as priming for heavy mortars, fireworks, etc.  -- Slow match, slightly twisted hempen rope soaked in a solution of limewater and saltpeter or washed in a lye of water and wood ashes. It burns at the rate of four or five inches an hour, and is used for firing cannon, fireworks, etc. 

MATCH:  A perforated board, block of plaster, hardened sand, etc., in which a pattern is partly imbedded when a mold is made, for giving shape to the surfaces of separation between the parts of the mold. Match boarding (Carp.), boards fitted together with tongue and groove, or prepared to be so fitted.  -- Match game, a game arranged as a test of superiority.  -- Match plane (Carp.), either of the two planes used to shape the edges of boards which are joined by grooving and tonguing.  -- Match plate (Founding), a board or plate on the opposite sides of which the halves of a pattern are fastened, to facilitate molding. Knight.  -- Match wheel (Mach.), a cogwheel of suitable pitch to work with another wheel; specifically, one of a pair of cogwheels of equal size. 

MATCHABLE:  Capable of being matched; comparable on equal conditions; adapted to being joined together; correspondent.  -- Match"a*ble*ness, n. Sir Walter Raleigh . . . is matchable with the best of the ancients. Hakewill.  MATCH-CLOTH Match"-cloth`, n.  A coarse cloth.  MATCH-COAT Match"-coat`, n.  A coat made of match-cloth. 

MATCHER:  One who, or that which, matches; a matching machine. See under 3d Match.  MATCH GAME Match game.  A game arranged as a test of superiority; also, one of a series of such games. 

MATCHLOCK:  An old form of gunlock containing a match for firing the priming; hence, a musket fired by means of a match. 

MATCHMAKING:  Busy in making or contriving marriages; as, a matchmaking woman.  MATCH PLAY Match play. (Golf)  Play in which the score is reckoned by counting the holes won or lost by each side; -- disting. from medal play. 

MATE:  The Paraguay tea, being the dried leaf of the Brazilian holly (Ilex Paraguensis). The infusion has a pleasant odor, with an agreeable bitter taste, and is much used for tea in South America. 

MATE:  Same as Checkmate. 

MATE:  See 2d Mat. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MATE:  An officer in a merchant vessel ranking next below the captain. If there are more than one bearing the title, they are called, respectively, first mate, second mate, third mate, etc. In the navy, a subordinate officer or assistant; as, master's mate; surgeon's mate. 

MATE:  To be or become a mate or mates, especially in sexual companionship; as, some birds mate for life; this bird will not mate with that one. 

MATELASSE:  Ornamented by means of an imitation or suggestion of quilting, the surface being marked by depressed lines which form squares or lozenges in relief; as, matelassé silks. 

MATELASSE:  A quilted ornamented dress fabric of silk or silk and wool. 

MATELESS:  Having no mate. 

MATELOTE:  A dish of food composed of many kings of fish.  MATELOTE; MATELOTTE Mat"e*lote, Mat"e*lotte, n. [F. matelote, fr. matelot a sailor; properly, a dish such as a sailors prepare.]  1. A stew, commonly of fish, flavored with wine, and served with a wine sauce containing onions, mushrooms, etc.  2.  An old dance of sailors, in double time, and somewhat like a hornpipe. 

MATEOLOGY:  A vain, unprofitable discourse or inquiry. [R.] 

MATEOTECHNY:  Any unprofitable science. [Obs.] 

MATER:  See Alma mater, Dura mater, and Pia mater. 

MATERIAL:  Pertaining to the matter, as opposed to the form, of a thing. See Matter. Material cause. See under Cause.  -- Material evidence (Law), evidence which conduces to the proof or disproof of a relevant hypothesis. Wharton.  Syn.  -- Corporeal; bodily; important; weighty; momentous; essential. 

MATERIAL:  The substance or matter of which anything is made or may be made. Raw material, any crude, unfinished, or elementary materials that are adapted to use only by processes of skilled labor. Cotton, wool, ore, logs, etc., are raw material. 

MATERIAL:  To form from matter; to materialize. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

MATERIALIST:  Of or pertaining to materialism or materialists; of the nature of materialism. But to me his very spiritualism seemed more materialistic than his physics. C. Kingsley. 

MATERIALIZATION:  The act of materializing, or the state of being materialized. 

MATERIALIZE:  To make visable in, or as in, a material form; -- said of spirits. A female spirit form temporarily materialized, and not distinguishable from a human being. Epes Sargent. 

MATERIALIZE:  To appear as a material form; to take substantial shape. [Colloq.] 

MATERIALNESS:  The state of being material.  MATERIA MEDICA Ma*te"ri*a med"i*ca. Etym: [L. See Matter, and Medical.]  1. Material or substance used in the composition of remedies; -- a general term for all substances used as curative agents in medicine.  2. That branch of medical science which treats of the nature and properties of all the substances that are employed for the cure of diseases. 

MATERIARIAN:  See Materialist. [Obs.]  MATERIATE; MATERIATED Ma*te"ri*ate, Ma*te"ri*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. materiatus, p. p. of materiare to build of wood.]  Consisting of matter. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MATERIATION:  Act of forming matter. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

MATERIEL:  That in a complex system which constitutes the materials, or instruments employed, in distinction from the personnel, or men; as, the baggage, munitions, provisions, etc., of an army; or the buildings, libraries, and apparatus of a college, in distinction from its officers. 

MATERIOUS:  See Material. [Obs.] 

MATERNAL:  Of or pertaining to a mother; becoming to a mother; motherly; as, maternal love; maternal tenderness.  Syn.  -- See Motherly. 

MATERNALLY:  In a motherly manner. 

MATERNITY:  The state of being a mother; the character or relation of a mother. 

MATFELON:  The knapweed (Centaurea nigra). 

MATH:  A mowing, or that which is gathered by mowing; -- chiefly used in composition; as, an aftermath. [Obs.] The first mowing thereof, for the king's use, is wont to be sooner than the common math. Bp. Hall. 

MATHEMATIC:  See Mathematical. 

MATHEMATICAL:  Of or pertaining to mathematics; according to mathematics; hence, theoretically precise; accurate; as, mathematical geography; mathematical instruments; mathematical exactness.  -- Math`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

MATHEMATICIAN:  One versed in mathematics. 

MATHEMATICS:  That science, or class of sciences, which treats of the exact relations existing between quantities or magnitudes, and of the methods by which, in accordance with these relations, quantities sought are deducible from other quantities known or supposed; the science of spatial and quantitative relations.  Note: Mathematics embraces three departments, namely: 1. Arithmetic. 2. Geometry, including Trigonometry and Conic Sections. 3. Analysis, in which letters are used, including Algebra, Analytical Geometry, and Calculus. Each of these divisions is divided into pure or abstract, which considers magnitude or quantity abstractly, without relation to matter; and mixed or applied, which treats of magnitude as subsisting in material bodies, and is consequently interwoven with physical considerations. 

MATHER:  See Madder. 

MATHES:  The mayweed. Cf. Maghet. 

MATHESIS:  Learning; especially, mathematics. [R.] Pope. 

MATHURIN:  See Trinitarian. 

MATICO:  A Peruvian plant (Piper, or Artanthe, elongatum), allied to the pepper, the leaves of which are used as a styptic and astringent. 

MATIE:  A fat herring with undeveloped roe. [Written also matty.] [Eng. & Scot.] 

MATIN:  A French mastiff. 

MATIN:  Morning worship or service; morning prayers or songs. The winged choristers began To chirp their matins. Cleveland.  3. Time of morning service; the first canonical hour in the Roman Catholic Church. 

MATIN:  Of or pertaining to the morning, or to matins; used in the morning; matutinal. 

MATINAL:  Relating to the morning, or to matins; matutinal. 

MATINEE:  A reception, or a musical or dramatic entertainment, held in the daytime. See SoirÉe. 

MATRASS:  A round-bottomed glass flask having a long neck; a bolthead. 

MATRESS:  See Matress. 

MATRIARCH:  The mother and ruler of a family or of her descendants; a ruler by maternal right. 

MATRIARCHAL:  Of or pertaining to a matriarch; governed by a matriarch. 

MATRIARCHATE:  The office or jurisdiction of a matriarch; a matriarchal form of government. 

MATRICE:  See Matrix. 

MATRICIDAL:  Of or pertaining to matricide. 

MATRICIDE:  One who murders one's own mother. 

MATRICULATE:  To enroll; to enter in a register; specifically, to enter or admit to membership in a body or society, particularly in a college or university, by enrolling the name in a register. In discovering and matriculating the arms of commissaries from North America. Sir W. Scott. 

MATRICULATE:  To go though the process of admission to membership, as by examination and enrollment, in a society or college. 

MATRICULATE:  Matriculated. Skelton.  -- n.  One who is matriculated. Arbuthnot. 

MATRICULATION:  The act or process of matriculating; the state of being matriculated. 

MATRIMOINE:  Matrimony. [Obs.] 

MATRIMONIAL:  Of or pertaining to marriage; derived from marriage; connubial; nuptial; hymeneal; as, matrimonial rights or duties. If he relied upon that title, he could be but a king at courtesy, and have rather a matrimonial than a regal power. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Connubial; conjugal; sponsal; spousal; nuptial; hymeneal. 

MATRIMONIALLY:  In a matrimonial manner. 

MATRIMONIOUS:  Matrimonial. [R.] Milton. 

MATRIX:  The womb. All that openeth the matrix is mine. Ex. xxxiv. 19.  2. Hence, that which gives form or origin to anything; as: (a) (Mech.) The cavity in which anything is formed, and which gives it shape; a die; a mold, as for the face of a type. (b) (Min.) The earthy or stony substance in which metallic ores or crystallized minerals are found; the gangue. (c) pl. (Dyeing)  The five simple colors, black, white, blue, red, and yellow, of which all the rest are composed.  3. (Biol.)  The lifeless portion of tissue, either animal or vegetable, situated between the cells; the intercellular substance.  4. (Math.)  A rectangular arrangement of symbols in rows and columns. The symbols may express quantities or operations. 

MATRONAL:  Of or pertaining to a matron; suitable to an elderly lady or to a married woman; grave; motherly. 

MATRONHOOD:  The state of being a matron. 

MATRONLIKE:  Like a matron; sedate; grave; matronly. 

MATRONYMIC:  See Metronymic. 

MATROSS:  Formerly, in the British service, a gunner or a gunner's mate; one of the soldiers in a train of artillery, who assisted the gunners in loading, firing, and sponging the guns. [Obs.] 

MATT:  See Matte. Knight. 

MATTAGES:  A shrike or butcher bird; -- written also matagasse. [Prov. Eng.] 

MATTAMORE:  A subterranean repository for wheat. 

MATTE:  A partly reduced copper sulphide, obtained by alternately roasting and melting copper ore in separating the metal from associated iron ores, and called coarse metal, fine metal, etc., according to the grade of fineness. On the exterior it is dark brown or black, but on a fresh surface is yellow or bronzy in color.  2. A dead or dull finish, as in gilding where the gold leaf is not burnished, or in painting where the surface is purposely deprived of gloss. 

MATTED:  Having a dull surface; unburnished; as, matted gold leaf or gilding. Matted glass, glass ornamented with figures on a dull ground. 

MATTER:  That which is permanent, or is supposed to be given, and in or upon which changes are effected by psychological or physical processes and relations; -- opposed to form. Mansel.  10. (Print.)  Written manuscript, or anything to be set in type; copy; also, type set up and ready to be used, or which has been used, in printing. Dead matter (Print.), type which has been used, or which is not to be used, in printing, and is ready for distribution.  -- Live matter (Print.), type set up, but not yet printed from.  -- Matter in bar, Matter of fact. See under Bar, and Fact.  -- Matter of record, anything recorded.  -- Upon the matter, or Upon the whole matter, considering the whole; taking all things into view. Waller, with Sir William Balfour, exceeded in horse, but were, upon the whole matter, equal in foot. Clarendon. 

MATTER:  To regard as important; to take account of; to care for. [Obs.] He did not matter cold nor hunger. H. Brooke. 

MATTERLESS:  Adhering to facts; not turning aside from absolute realities; not fanciful or imaginative; commonplace; dry. 

MATTING:  A dull, lusterless surface in certain of the arts, as gilding, metal work, glassmaking, etc. 

MATTOCK:  An implement for digging and grubbing. The head has two long steel blades, one like an adz and the other like a narrow ax or the point of a pickax. 'T is you must dig with mattock and with spade. Shak. 

MATTOID:  A person of congenitally abnormal mind bordering on insanity or degeneracy. 

MATTOIR:  A kind of coarse punch with a rasplike face, used for making a rough surface on etching ground, or on the naked copper, the effect after biting being very similar to stippled lines. 

MATTOWACCA:  An American clupeoid fish (Clupea mediocris), similar to the shad in habits and appearance, but smaller and less esteemed for food; -- called also hickory shad, tailor shad, fall herring, and shad herring. 

MATTRESS:  A mass of interwoven brush, poles, etc., to protect a bank from being worn away by currents or waves. 

MATURANT:  A medicine, or application, which promotes suppuration. 

MATURATE:  To ripen; to become mature; specif 

MATURATION:  The process of bringing, or of coming, to maturity; hence, specifically, the process of suppurating perfectly; the formation of pus or matter. 

MATURATIVE:  Conducing to ripeness or maturity; hence, conducing to suppuration. 

MATURATIVE:  A remedy promoting maturation; a maturant. 

MATURE:  To bring or hasten to maturity; to promote ripeness in; to ripen; to complete; as, to mature one's plans. Bacon. 

MATURENESS:  The state or quality of being mature; maturity. 

MATURER:  One who brings to maturity. 

MATURESCENT:  Approaching maturity. 

MATURING:  Approaching maturity; as, maturing fruits; maturing notes of hand. 

MATUTINAL:  Of or pertaining to the morning; early. 

MATUTINARY:  Matutinal. [R.] 

MATUTINE:  Matutinal. [R.] 

MATWEED:  A name of several maritime grasses, as the sea sand-reed (Ammophila arundinacea) which is used in Holland to bind the sand of the seacoast dikes (see Beach grass, under Beach); also, the Lygeum Spartum, a Mediterranean grass of similar habit. 

MATY:  A native house servant in India. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

MATZOTH:  A cake of unleavened bread eaten by the Jews at the feast of the Passover. 

MAUCACO:  A lemur; -- applied to several species, as the White-fronted, the ruffed, and the ring-tailed lemurs. 

MAUD:  A gray plaid; -- used by shepherds in Scotland. 

MAUDLE:  To throw onto confusion or disorder; to render maudlin. [Obs.] 

MAUDLIN:  An aromatic composite herb, the costmary; also, the South European Achillea Ageratum, a kind of yarrow. 

MAUDLINISM:  A maudlin state. Dickens. 

MAUDLINWORT:  The oxeye daisy.  MAUGER; MAUGRE Mau"ger, Mau"gre, prep. Etym: [OF. maugré, malgré, F. malgré. See Mal-, Malice, and Agree.]  In spite of; in opposition to; notwithstanding. A man must needs love maugre his heed. Chaucer. This mauger all the world will I keep safe. Shak. 

MAUGRE:  To defy. [Obs.] J. Webster. 

MAUKIN:  A hare. [Scot.] 

MAUL:  A heavy wooden hammer or beetle. [Written also mall.] 

MAULE:  The common mallow. 

MAULING:  A severe beating with a stick, cudgel, or the fist.  MAUL-STICK Maul"-stick`, n. Etym: [G. malerstock; maler a painter + stock stick.]  A stick used by painters as a rest for the hand while working. [Written also mahl-stick.] 

MAUMET:  See Mawmet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MAUNCH:  To munch. [Obs.] 

MAUNCH:  See Manche. 

MAUND:  A hand basket. [Obs.] Herrick. 

MAUND:  An East Indian weight, varying in different localities from 25 to about 82 pounds avoirdupois.  MAUND; MAUNDER Maund, Maund"er, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. mendier to beg, E. mendicant.]  1. To beg. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Beau. & Fl.  2. To mutter; to mumble; to grumble; to speak indistinctly or disconnectedly; to talk incoherently. He was ever maundering by the how that he met a party of scarlet devils. Sir W. Scott. 

MAUNDER:  To utter in a grumbling manner; to mutter. 

MAUNDER:  A beggar. [Obs.] 

MAUNDERER:  One who maunders. 

MAUNDRIL:  A pick with two prongs, to pry with.  MAUNDY COINS; MAUNDY MONEY Maundy coins or money.  Silver coins or money of the nominal value of 1d., 2d., 3d., and 4d., struck annually for the Maundy alms.  MAUNDY THURSDAY Maun"dy Thurs"day. Etym: [OE. maunde a command, OF. mandé, L. mandatum, from mandare to command. See called from the ancient custom of washing the feet of the poor on this day, which was taken to be the fulfillment of the "new commandment," John xiii. 5, 34.] (Eccl.)  The Thursday in Passion week, or next before Good Friday. 

MAUNGY:  Mangy. [Obs.] Skelton. 

MAURESQUE:  See Moresque. 

MAURIST:  A member of the Congregation of Saint Maur, an offshoot of the Benedictines, originating in France in the early part of the seventeenth century. The Maurists have been distinguished for their interest in literature. 

MAUSOLEAN:  Pertaining to a mausoleum; monumental. 

MAUSOLEUM:  A magnificent tomb, or stately sepulchral monument. 

MAUTHER:  A girl; esp., a great, awkward girl; a wench. [Prov. Eng.] 

MAUVANILINE:  See Mauve aniline, under Mauve. 

MAUVE:  A color of a delicate purple, violet, or lilac. Mauve aniline (Chem.), a dyestuff produced artificially by the oxidation of commercial aniline, and the first discovered of the so-called coal- tar, or aniline, dyes. It consists of the sulphate of mauveïne, and is a dark brown or bronze amorphous powder, which dissolves to a beatiful purple color. Called also aniline purple, violine, etc. 

MAUVEINE:  An artificial organic base, obtained by oxidizing a mixture of aniline and toluidine, and valuable for the dyestuffs it forms. [Written also mauvine.] 

MAUVINE:  Mauve-colored. 

MAVERICK:  In the southwestern part of the united States, a bullock or heifer that has not been branded, and is unclaimed or wild; -- said to be from Maverick, the name of a cattle owner in Texas who naglected to brand his cattle.  MAVERICK BRAND Maverick brand.  A brand originated by a dishonest cattleman, who, without owning any stock, gradually accumulates a herd by finding mavericks. [Western U. S.] 

MAVIS:  The European throstle or song thrush (Turdus musicus).  MAVOURNIN; MAVOURNEEN Ma*vour"nin, Ma*vour"neen  (ma*voor"nen), n. [Ir. mo mhuirnin my darling; mo my + mhuirnin darling.]  My darling; -- an Irish term of endearment for a girl or woman. "Erin mavournin."  Campbell. 

MAW:  A gull. 

MAW:  An old game at cards. Sir A. Weldon. 

MAWKIN:  See Malkin, and Maukin. 

MAWKINGLY:  Slatternly. [Obs.] 

MAWKISHLY:  In a mawkish way. 

MAWKISHNESS:  The quality or state of being mawkish. J. H. Newman. 

MAWKS:  A slattern; a mawk. [Prov. Eng.] 

MAWKY:  Maggoty. [Prov. Eng.] 

MAWMET:  A puppet; a doll; originally, an idol, because in the Middle Ages it was generally believed that the Mohammedans worshiped images representing Mohammed. [Obs.] Wyclif. Beau. & Fl. 

MAWMETRY:  The religion of Mohammed; also, idolatry. See Mawmet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MAWMISH:  Nauseous. [Obs.] L' Estrange. 

MAWSEED:  The seed of the opium poppy. 

MAXILLA:  One of the lower or outer jaws of arthropods.  Note: There are usually two pairs in Crustacea and one pair in insects. In certain insects they are not used as jaws, but may form suctorial organs. See Illust. under Lepidoptera, and Diptera.  MAXILLAR; MAXILLARY Max"il*lar, Max"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. maxillaris, fr. maxilla jawbone, jaw: cf. F. maxillaire.]  1. (Anat.)  Pertaining to either the upper or the lower jaw, but now usually applied to the upper jaw only.  -- n.  The principal maxillary bone; the maxilla.  2. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to a maxilla. 

MAXILLIFORM:  Having the form, or structure, of a maxilla. 

MAXILLIPED:  One of the mouth appendages of Crustacea, situated next behind the maxillæ. Crabs have three pairs, but many of the lower Crustacea have but one pair of them. Called also jawfoot, and foot jaw.  MAXILLO-MANDIBULAR Max*il`lo-man*dib"u*lar, a. Etym: [Maxilla + mandibular.] (Anat.)  Pertaining to the maxilla and mandible; as, the maxillo- mandibular nerve.  MAXILLO-PALATINE Max*il`lo-pal"a*tine, a. Etym: [Maxilla + palatine.] (Anat.)  Pertaining to the maxillary and palatine regions of the skull; as, the maxillo-palatine process of the maxilla. Also used as n. 

MAXILLOTURBINAL:  Pertaining to the maxillary and turbinal regions of the skull.  -- n.  The maxillo-turbinal, or inferior turbinate, bone. 

MAXIM:  The longest note formerly used, equal to two longs, or four breves; a large.  Syn.  -- Axiom; aphorism; apothegm; adage; proverb; saying. See Axiom.  MAXIM GUN Max"im gun`.  A kind of machine gun; -- named after its inventor, Hiram S. Maxim. 

MAXIMILIAN:  A gold coin of Bavaria, of the value of about 13s. 6d. sterling, or about three dollars and a quarter. 

MAXIMIZATION:  The act or process of increasing to the highest degree. Bentham. 

MAXIMIZE:  To increase to the highest degree. Bentham. 

MAXIMUM:  The greatest quantity or value attainable in a given case; or, the greatest value attained by a quantity which first increases and then begins to decrease; the highest point or degree; -- opposed to Ant: minimum. Good legislation is the art of conducting a nation to the maximum of happiness, and the minimum of misery. P. Colquhoun. Maximum thermometer, a thermometer that registers the highest degree of temperature attained in a given time, or since its last adjustment. 

MAXIMUM:  Greatest in quantity or highest in degree attainable or attained; as, a maximum consumption of fuel; maximum pressure; maximum heat. 

MAY:  An auxiliary verb qualifyng the meaning of another verb, by expressing: (a) Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can. How may a man, said he, with idle speech, Be won to spoil the castle of his health ! Spenser. For what he [the king] may do is of two kinds; what he may do as just, and what he may do as possible. Bacon. For of all sad words of tongue or pen The saddest are these: "It might have been." Whittier. (b) Liberty; permission; allowance. Thou mayst be no longer steward. Luke xvi. 2. (c) Contingency or liability; possibility or probability. Though what he learns he speaks, and may advance Some general maxims, or be right by chance. Pope. (d) Modesty, courtesy, or concession, or a desire to soften a question or remark. How old may Phillis be, you ask. Prior. (e) Desire or wish, as in prayer, imprecation, benediction, and the like. "May you live happily." Dryden. May be, and It may be, are used as equivalent to possibly, perhaps, by chance, peradventure. See 1st Maybe. 

MAY:  A maiden. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MAY:  The flowers of the hawthorn; -- so called from their time of blossoming; also, the hawthorn. The palm and may make country houses gay. Nash. Plumes that micked the may. Tennyson.  4. The merrymaking of May Day. Tennyson. Italian may (Bot.), a shrubby species of Spiræa (S. hypericifolia) with many clusters of small white flowers along the slender branches.  -- May apple (Bot.), the fruit of an American plant (Podophyllum peltatum). Also, the plant itself (popularly called mandrake), which has two lobed leaves, and bears a single egg-shaped fruit at the forking. The root and leaves, used in medicine, are powerfully drastic.  -- May beetle, May bug (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of large lamellicorn beetles that appear in the winged state in May. They belong to Melolontha, and allied genera. Called also June beetle.  -- May Day, the first day of May; -- celebrated in the rustic parts of England by the crowning of a May queen with a garland, and by dancing about a May pole.  -- May dew, the morning dew of the first day of May, to which magical properties were attributed.  -- May flower (Bot.), a plant that flowers in May; also, its blossom. See Mayflower, in the vocabulary.  -- May fly (Zoöl.), any species of Ephemera, and allied genera; -- so called because the mature flies of many species appear in May. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral.  -- May game, any May-day sport.  -- May lady, the queen or lady of May, in old May games.  -- May lily (Bot.), the lily of the valley (Convallaria majalis).  -- May pole. See Maypole in the Vocabulary.  -- May queen, a girl or young woman crowned queen in the sports of May Day.  -- May thorn, the hawthorn. 

MAYA:  The name for the doctrine of the unreality of matter, called, in English, idealism; hence, nothingness; vanity; illusion. 

MAYAN:  A form of corbel arch employing regular small corbels. 

MAYBE:  Perhaps; possibly; peradventure. Maybe the amorous count solicits her. Shak. In a liberal and, maybe, somewhat reckless way. Tylor. 

MAYBE:  Possible; probable, but not sure. [R.] Then add those maybe years thou hast to live. Driden. 

MAYBE:  Possibility; uncertainty. [R.] What they offer is mere maybe and shift. Creech. 

MAYBLOOM:  The hawthorn. 

MAYBUSH:  The hawthorn. 

MAYDUKE:  A large dark-red cherry of excellent quality. 

MAYFISH:  A common American minnow (Fundulus majalis). See Minnow. 

MAYFLOWER:  In England, the hawthorn; in New England, the trailing arbutus (see Arbutus); also, the blossom of these plants. 

MAYHAP:  Perhaps; peradventure. [Prov. or Dialectic] 

MAYHEM:  The maiming of a person by depriving him of the use of any of his members which are necessary for defense or protection. See Maim. 

MAYING:  The celebrating of May Day. "He met her once a-Maying." Milton.  MAY LAWS May laws.  1. See Kulturkampf, above.  2.  In Russia, severe oppressive laws against Jews, which have given occasion for great persecution; -- so called because they received the assent of the czar in May, 1882, and because likened to the Prussian May laws (see Kulturkampf). 

MAYONNAISE:  A sauce compounded of raw yolks of eggs beaten up with olive oil to the consistency of a sirup, and seasoned with vinegar, pepper, salt, etc.; -- used in dressing salads, fish, etc. Also, a dish dressed with this sauce. 

MAYOR:  The chief magistrate of a city or borough; the chief officer of a municipal corporation. In some American cities there is a city court of which the major is chief judge. 

MAYORAL:  The conductir of a mule team; also, a head shepherd. 

MAYORALTY:  The office, or the term of office, of a mayor. 

MAYORESS:  The wife of a mayor. 

MAYORSHIP:  The office of a mayor. 

MAYPOLE:  A tall pole erected in an open place and wreathed with flowers, about which the rustic May-day sports were had. 

MAYPOP:  The edible fruit of a passion flower, especially that of the North American Passiflora incarnata, an oval yellowish berry as large as a small apple. 

MAYWEED:  A goatlike antelope (Haplocerus montanus) which inhabits the Rocky Mountains, frequenting the highest parts; -- called also mountain goat. 

MAZARD:  A kind of small black cherry. 

MAZARD:  The jaw; the head or skull. [Obs.] Shak. 

MAZARD:  To knock on the head. [Obs.] 

MAZARINE:  Of or pertaining to Cardinal Mazarin, prime minister of France, 1643-1661. Mazarine Bible, the first Bible, and perhaps the first complete book, printed with movable metal types; -- printed by Gutenberg at Mentz, 1450-55; -- so called because a copy was found in the Mazarine Library, at Paris, about 1760.  -- Mazarine blue, a deep blue color, named in honor of Cardinal Mazarin. 

MAZARINE:  Mazarine blue. 

MAZDEAN:  Of or pertaining to Ahura-Mazda, or Ormuzd, the beneficent deity in the Zoroastrian dualistic system; hence, Zoroastrian. 

MAZDEISM:  The Zoroastrian religion. 

MAZE:  To perplex greatly; to bewilder; to astonish and confuse; to amaze. South. 

MAZE:  To be bewildered. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MAZEDNESS:  The condition of being mazed; confusion; astonishment. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MAZEFUL:  Mazy. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

MAZER:  A large drinking bowl; -- originally made of maple. [Obs.] Their brimful mazers to the feasting bring. Drayton. 

MAZILY:  In a mazy manner. 

MAZINESS:  The state or quality of being mazy. 

MAZOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to mazology. 

MAZOLOGIST:  One versed in mazology or mastology. 

MAZOLOGY:  Same as Mastology.  MAZOURKA; MAZURKA Ma*zour"ka, Ma*zur"ka, n.  A Polish dance, or the music which accompanies it, usually in 3-4 or 3-8 measure, with a strong accent on the second beat. 

MAZY:  Perplexed with turns and windings; winding; intricate; confusing; perplexing; embarrassing; as, mazy error. Milton. To range amid the mazy thicket. Spenser. To run the ring, and trace the mazy round. Dryden. 

ME:  One. See Men, pron. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ME:  The person speaking, regarded as an object; myself; a pronoun of the first person used as the objective and dative case of the pronoum I; as, he struck me; he gave me the money, or he gave the money to me; he got me a hat, or he got a hat for me.  Note: In methinks, me is properly in the dative case, and the verb is impersonal, the construction being, it appears to me. In early use me was often placed before forms of the verb to be with an adjective; as, me were lief. Me rather had my heart might frrl your love Than my unpleased eye see your courtesy. Shak. 

MEACH:  To skulk; to cower. See Mich. 

MEACOCK:  An uxorious, effeminate, or spiritless man. [Obs.] Johnson. 

MEAD:  A meadow. A mede All full of freshe flowers, white and reede. Chaucer. To fertile vales and dewy meads My weary, wandering steps he leads. Addison. 

MEADOW:  Of or pertaining to a meadow; of the nature of a meadow; produced, growing, or living in, a meadow. "Fat meadow ground." Milton.  Note: For many names of plants compounded with meadow, see the particular word in the Vocabulary. Meadow beauty. (Bot.) Same as Deergrass.  -- Meadow foxtail (Bot.), a valuable pasture grass (Alopecurus pratensis) resembling timothy, but with softer spikes.  -- Meadow grass (Bot.), a name given to several grasses of the genus Poa, common in meadows, and of great value for nay and for pasture. See Grass.  -- Meadow hay, a coarse grass, or true sedge, growing in uncultivated swamp or river meadow; -- used as fodder or bedding for cattle, packing for ice, etc. [Local, U. S.] -- Meadow hen. (Zoöl.) (a) The American bittern. See Stake-driver. (b) The American coot (Fulica). (c) The clapper rail.  -- Meadow lark (Zoöl.), any species of Sturnella, a genus of American birds allied to the starlings. The common species (S. magna) has a yellow breast with a black crescent.  -- Meadow mouse (Zoöl.), any mouse of the genus Arvicola, as the common American species A. riparia; -- called also field mouse, and field vole.  -- Meadow mussel (Zoöl.), an American ribbed mussel (Modiola plicatula), very abundant in salt marshes.  -- Meadow ore (Min.), bog-iron ore , a kind of limonite.  -- Meadow parsnip. (Bot.) See under Parsnip.  -- Meadow pink. (Bot.) See under Pink.  -- Meadow pipit (Zoöl.), a small singing bird of the genus Anthus, as A. pratensis, of Europe.  -- Meadow rue (Bot.), a delicate early plant, of the genus Thalictrum, having compound leaves and numerous white flowers. There are many species.  -- Meadow saffron. (Bot.) See under Saffron.  -- Meadow sage. (Bot.) See under Sage.  -- Meadow saxifrage (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant of Europe (Silaus pratensis), somewhat resembling fennel.  -- Meadow snipe (Zoöl.), the common or jack snipe.  MEADOWSWEET; MEADOWWORT Mead"ow*sweet`, Mead"ow*wort`, n. (Bot.)  The name of several plants of the genus Spiræa, especially the white- or pink-flowered S. salicifolia, a low European and American shrub, and the herbaceous S. Ulmaria, which has fragrant white flowers in compound cymes. 

MEADOWY:  Of or pertaining to meadows; resembling, or consisting of, meadow.  MEAGER; MEAGRE Mea"ger, Mea"gre, a. Etym: [OE. merge, F. maigre, L. macer; akin to D. & G. mager, Icel. magr, and prob. to Gr. Emaciate, Maigre.]  1. Destitue of, or having little, flesh; lean. Meager were his looks; Sharp misery had worn him to the bones. Shak.  2. Destitute of richness, fertility, strength, or the like; defective in quantity, or poor in quality; poor; barren; scanty in ideas; wanting strength of diction or affluence of imagery. "Meager soil." Dryden. Of secular habits and meager religious belief. I. Taylor. His education had been but meager. Motley.  3. (Min.)  Dry and harsh to the touch, as chalk.  Syn.  -- Thin; lean; lank; gaunt; starved; hungry; poor; emaciated; scanty; barren.  MEAGER; MEAGRE Mea"ger, Mea"gre, v. t.  To make lean. [Obs.]  MEAGERLY; MEAGRELY Mea"ger*ly, Mea"gre*ly, adv.  Poorly; thinly.  MEAGERNESS; MEAGRENESS Mea"ger*ness, Mea"gre*ness, n.  The state or quality of being meager; leanness; scantiness; barrenness. 

MEAGRE:  A large European sciænoid fish (Sciæna umbra or S. aquila), having white bloodless flesh. It is valued as a food fish. [Written also maigre.] 

MEAK:  A hook with a long handle. [Obs.] Tusser. 

MEAKING:  The process of picking out the oakum from the seams of a vessel which is to be recalked. Meaking iron (Naut.), the tool with which old oakum is picked out of a vessel's seams. 

MEAL:  A part; a fragment; a portion. [Obs.] 

MEAL:  The portion of food taken at a particular time for the satisfaction of appetite; the quantity usually taken at one time with the purpose of satisfying hunger; a repast; the acas, the traveler has not eaten a good meal for a week; there was silence during the meal. What strange fish Hath made his meal on thee Shak. 

MEALIES:  Maize or Indian corn; -- the common name in South Africa. 

MEALINESS:  The quality or state of being mealy.  MEAL-MOUTHED Meal"-mouthed`, a.  See Mealy-mouthed. 

MEALTIME:  The usual time of eating a meal. 

MEALY:  Using soft words; plausible; affectedly or timidly delicate of speech; unwilling to tell the truth in plain language. "Mealy-mouthed philanthropies." Tennyson. She was a fool to be mealy-mouthed where nature speaks so plain. L'Estrange. -- Meal"y-mouth`ness, n. 

MEAN:  To have a purpose or intention. [Rare, except in the phrase to mean well, or ill.] Shak. 

MEAN:  Average; having an intermediate value between two extremes, or between the several successive values of a variable quantity during one cycle of variation; as, mean distance; mean motion; mean solar day. Mean distance (of a planet from the sun) (Astron.), the average of the distances throughout one revolution of the planet, equivalent to the semi-major axis of the orbit.  -- Mean error (Math. Phys.), the average error of a number of observations found by taking the mean value of the positive and negative errors without regard to sign.  -- Mean-square error, or Error of the mean square (Math. Phys.), the error the square of which is the mean of the squares of all the errors; -- called also, especially by European writers, mean error.  -- Mean line. (Crystallog.) Same as Bisectrix.  -- Mean noon, noon as determined by mean time.  -- Mean proportional (between two numbers) (Math.), the square root of their product.  -- Mean sun, a fictitious sun supposed to move uniformly in the equator so as to be on the meridian each day at mean noon.  -- Mean time, time as measured by an equable motion, as of a perfect clock, or as reckoned on the supposition that all the days of the year are of a mean or uniform length, in contradistinction from apparent time, or that actually indicated by the sun, and from sidereal time, or that measured by the stars. 

MEAN:  A quantity having an intermediate value between several others, from which it is derived, and of which it expresses the resultant value; usually, unless otherwise specified, it is the simple average, formed by adding the quantities together and dividing by their number, which is called an arithmetical mean. A geometrical mean is the square root of the product of the quantities.  3. That through which, or by the help of which, an end is attained; something tending to an object desired; intermediate agency or measure; necessary condition or coagent; instrument. Their virtuous conversation was a mean to work the conversion of the heathen to Christ. Hooker. You may be able, by this mean, to review your own scientific acquirements. Coleridge. Philosophical doubt is not an end, but a mean. Sir W. Hamilton.  Note: In this sense the word is usually employed in the plural form means, and often with a singular attribute or predicate, as if a singular noun. By this means he had them more at vantage. Bacon. What other means is left unto us. Shak.  4. pl.  Hence: Resources; property, revenue, or the like, considered as the condition of easy livelihood, or an instrumentality at command for effecting any purpose; disposable force or substance. Your means are very slender, and your waste is great. Shak.  5. (Mus.)  A part, whether alto or tenor, intermediate between the soprano and base; a middle part. [Obs.] The mean is drowned with your unruly base. Shak.  6. Meantime; meanwhile. [Obs.] Spenser.  7. A mediator; a go-between. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. He wooeth her by means and by brokage. Chaucer. By all means, certainly; without fail; as, go, by all means.  -- By any means, in any way; possibly; at all. If by any means I might attain to the resurrection of the dead. Phil. iii. ll. -- By no means, or By no manner of means, not at all; certainly not; not in any degree. The wine on this side of the lake is by no means so good as that on the other. Addison. 

MEANDER:  Fretwork. See Fret. 

MEANDER:  To wind, turn, or twist; to make flexuous. Dryton. 

MEANDER:  To wind or turn in a course or passage; to be intricate. Five miles meandering with a mazy motion Through wood and dale the sacred river ran. Coleridge. 

MEANDRIAN:  Winding; having many turns. 

MEANDRINA:  A genus of corals with meandering grooves and ridges, including the brain corals.  MEANDROUS; MEANDRY Me*an"drous, Me*an"dry, a.  Winding; flexuous. 

MEANLY:  Moderately. [Obs.] A man meanly learned himself, but not meanly affectioned to set forward learning in others. Ascham. 

MEANLY:  In a mean manner; unworthily; basely; poorly; ungenerously. While the heaven-born child All meanly wrapt in the rude manger lies. Milton. Would you meanly thus rely On power you know I must obey Prior. We can not bear to have others think meanly of them [our kindred]. I. Watts. 

MEANNESS:  Of a mean spirit; base; groveling.  -- Mean"-spir`it*ed*ness, n. 

MEANT:  of Mean.  MEANTIME; MEANWHILE Mean"time`, Mean"while`, n.  The intervening time; as, in the meantime (or mean time).  MEANTIME; MEANWHILE Mean"time`, Mean"while`, adv.  In the intervening time; during the interval. 

MEAR:  A boundary. See Mere. [Obs.] 

MEASE:  Five hundred; as, a mease of herrings. [Prov. Eng.] 

MEASELRY:  Leprosy. [Obs.] R. of Brunne. 

MEASLE:  A leper. [Obs.] [Written also meazel, and mesel.] Wyclif (Matt. x. 8. ). 

MEASLE:  A tapeworm larva. See 2d Measles, 4. 

MEASLED:  Infected or spotted with measles, as pork.  -- Mea"sled*ness, n. 

MEASLES:  Leprosy; also, a leper. [Obs.] 

MEASLES:  A contagious febrile disorder commencing with catarrhal symptoms, and marked by the appearance on the third day of an eruption of distinct red circular spots, which coalesce in a crescentic form, are slightly raised above the surface, and after the fourth day of the eruption gradually decline; rubeola. Measles commences with the ordinary symptoms of fever. Am. Cyc.  2. (Veter. Med.)  A disease of cattle and swine in which the flesh is filled with the embryos of different varieties of the tapeworm.  3. A disease of trees. [Obs.]  4. pl. (Zoöl.)  The larvæ of any tapeworm (Tænia) in the cysticerus stage, when contained in meat. Called also bladder worms. 

MEASLY:  Containing larval tapeworms; -- said of pork and beef. 

MEASURE:  The space between two bars. See Beat, Triple, Quadruple, Sextuple, Compound time, under Compound, a., and Figure. (c) (Poetry) The manner of ordering and combining the quantities, or long and short syllables; meter; rhythm; hence, a foot; as, a poem in iambic measure.  10. (Arith.)  A number which is contained in a given number a number of times without a remainder; as in the phrases, the common measure, the greatest common measure, etc., of two or more numbers.  11. A step or definite part of a progressive course or policy; a means to an end; an act designed for the accomplishment of an object; as, political measures; prudent measures; an inefficient measure. His majesty found what wrong measures he had taken in the conferring that trust, and lamented his error. Clarendon.  12. The act of measuring; measurement. Shak.  13. pl. (Geol.)  Beds or strata; as, coal measures; lead measures. Lineal, or Long, measure, measure of length; the measure of lines or distances.  -- Liquid measure, the measure of liquids.  -- Square measure, the measure of superficial area of surfaces in square units, as inches, feet, miles, etc.  -- To have hard measure, to have harsh treatment meted out to one; to be harshly or oppressively dealt with.  -- To take measures, to make preparations; to provide means.  -- To take one's measure, to measure one, as for a garment; hence, to form an opinion of one's disposition, character, ability, etc.  -- To tread a measure, to dance in the style so called. See 9 (a). Say to her, we have measured many miles To tread a measure with her on this grass. Shak. 

MEASURED:  Regulated or determined by a standard; hence, equal; uniform; graduated; limited; moderated; as, he walked with measured steps; he expressed himself in no measured terms.  -- Meas"ured*ly, adv. 

MEASURELESS:  Without measure; unlimited; immeasurable.  -- Meas"ure*less*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Boundless; limitless; endless; unbounded; unlimited; vast; immense; infinite; immeasurable. Where Alf, the sacred river ran, Through canyons measureless to man, Down to a hidden sea. Coleridge 

MEASURER:  One who measures; one whose occupation or duty is to measure commondities in market. 

MEASURING:  Used in, or adapted for, ascertaining measurements, or dividing by measure. Measuring faucet, a faucet which permits only a given quantity of liquid to pass each time it is opened, or one by means of which the liquid which passes can be measured.  -- Measuring worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any geometrid moth. See Geometrid. 

MEAT:  To supply with food. [Obs.] Tusser. His shield well lined, his horses meated well. Chapman. 

MEATAL:  Of or pertaining to a meatus; resembling a meatus. Owen. 

MEATED:  A sweet liquor; mead. [Obs.] Chaucer. Milton. 

MEATINESS:  Quality of being meaty. 

MEATLESS:  Having no meat; without food. "Leave these beggars meatless." Sir T. More. 

MEATOSCOPE:  A speculum for examining a natural passage, as the urethra. 

MEATOTOME:  An instrument for cutting into the urethra so as to enlarge its orifice. 

MEATUS:  A natural passage or canal; as, the external auditory meatus. See Illust. of Ear. 

MEATY:  Abounding in meat. 

MEAW:  The sea mew. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MEAW:  See Mew, to cry as a cat. 

MEAWL:  See Mewl, and Miaul. 

MEAZEL:  See 1st Measle. [Obs.] 

MEAZLING:  Falling in small drops; mistling; mizzing. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. 

MEBLES:  See Moebles. [Obs.] 

MECATE:  A rope of hair or of maguey fiber, for tying horses, etc. [Southwestern U. S.] 

MECCAWEE:  Of or pertaining to Mecca, in Arabia.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Mecca. 

MECHANICAL:  A mechanic. [Obs.] Shak. 

MECHANICALIZE:  To cause to become mechanical. 

MECHANICALLY:  In a mechanical manner. 

MECHANICALNESS:  The state or quality of being mechanical. 

MECHANICIAN:  One skilled in the theory or construction of machines; a machinist. Boyle.  MECHANICO-CHEMICAL Me*chan`i*co-chem"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to, connected with, or dependent upon, both mechanics and chemistry; -- said especially of those sciences which treat of such phenomena as seem to depend on the laws both of mechanics and chemistry, as electricity and magnetism. 

MECHANICS:  That science, or branch of applied mathematics, which treats of the action of forces on bodies.  Note: That part of mechanics which considers the action of forces in producing rest or equilibrium is called statics; that which relates to such action in producing motion is called dynamics. The term mechanics includes the action of forces on all bodies, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous. It is sometimes, however, and formerly was often, used distinctively of solid bodies only: The mechanics of liquid bodies is called also hydrostatics, or hydrodynamics, according as the laws of rest or of motion are considered. The mechanics of gaseous bodies is called also pneumatics. The mechanics of fluids in motion, with special reference to the methods of obtaining from them useful results, constitutes hydraulics. Animal mechanics (Physiol.), that portion of physiology which has for its object the investigation of the laws of equilibrium and motion in the animal body. The most important mechanical principle is that of the lever, the bones forming the arms of the levers, the contractile muscles the power, the joints the fulcra or points of support, while the weight of the body or of the individual limbs constitutes the weight or resistance.  -- Applied mechanics, the principles of abstract mechanics applied to human art; also, the practical application of the laws of matter and motion to the construction of machines and structures of all kinds. 

MECHANISM:  An ideal machine; a combination of movable bodies constituting a machine, but considered only with regard to relative movements. 

MECHANIZE:  To cause to be mechanical. Shelley. 

MECHANOGRAPH:  One of a number of copies of anything multiplied mechanically. 

MECHANOGRAPHIST:  An artist who, by mechanical means, multiplies copies of works of art. 

MECHANOGRAPHY:  The art of mechanically multiplying copies of a writing, or any work of art. 

MECHANURGY:  That branch of science which treats of moving machines. 

MECHITARIST:  One of a religious congregation of the Roman Catholic Church devoted to the improvement of Armenians. 

MECHLIN:  A kind of lace made at, or originating in, Mechlin, in Belgium. 

MECHOACAN:  A species of jalap, of very feeble properties, said to be obtained from the root of a species of Convolvulus (C. Mechoacan); -- so called from Michoacan, in Mexico, whence it is obtained. 

MECKELIAN:  Pertaining to, or discovered by, J. F. Meckel, a German anatomist. Meckelian cartilage, the cartilaginous rod which forms the axis of the mandible; -- called also Meckel's cartilage. 

MECONATE:  A salt of meconic acid. 

MECONIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, the poppy or opium; specif. (Chem.), designating an acid related to aconitic acid, found in opium and extracted as a white crystalline substance. 

MECONIDINE:  An alkaloid found in opium, and extracted as a yellow amorphous substance which is easily decomposed. 

MECONIDIUM:  A kind of gonophore produced by hydroids of the genus Gonothyræa. It has tentacles, and otherwise resembles a free medusa, but remains attached by a pedicel. 

MECONIN:  A substance regarded as an anhydride of meconinic acid, existing in opium and extracted as a white crystalline substance. Also erroneously called meconina, meconia, etc., as though it were an alkaloid. 

MECONINIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which occurs in opium, and which may be obtained by oxidizing narcotine. 

MEDAL:  A piece of metal in the form of a coin, struck with a device, and intended to preserve the remembrance of a notable event or an illustrious person, or to serve as a reward. 

MEDAL:  To honor or reward with a medal. "Medaled by the king." Thackeray. 

MEDALET:  A small medal. 

MEDALLIC:  Of or pertaining to a medal, or to medals. "Our medallic history." Walpole. 

MEDALLION:  Play in which the score is reckoned by counting the number of strokes. 

MEDALURGY:  The art of making and striking medals and coins. [Written also medallurgy.] 

MEDDLE:  To mix; to mingle. [Obs.] Chaucer. "Wine meddled with gall." Wyclif (Matt. xxvii. 34). 

MEDDLER:  One who meddles; one who interferes or busies himself with things in which he has no concern; an officious person; a busybody. 

MEDDLESOME:  Given to meddling; apt to interpose in the affairs of others; officiously intrusive.  -- Med"dle*some*ness, n. 

MEDDLING:  Meddlesome. Macaulay. 

MEDDLINGLY:  In a meddling manner. 

MEDE:  A native or inhabitant of Media in Asia. 

MEDE:  See lst & 2d Mead, and Meed. [Obs.] 

MEDIA:  pl. of Medium. 

MEDIA:  One of the sonant mutes b, d, g (b, d, g), in Greek, or of their equivalents in other languages, so named as intermediate between the tenues, p, t, k (p, t, k), and the aspiratæ (aspirates) f, th, x (ph or f, th, ch). Also called middle mute, or medial, and sometimes soft mute. 

MEDIACY:  The state or quality of being mediate. Sir W. Hamilton. 

MEDIAEVAL:  Of or relating to the Middle Ages; as, mediæval architecture. [Written also medieval.] 

MEDIAEVALISM:  The method or spirit of the Middle Ages; devotion to the institutions and practices of the Middle Ages; a survival from the Middle Ages. [Written also medievalism.] 

MEDIAEVALIST:  One who has a taste for, or is versed in, the history of the Middle Ages; one in sympathy with the spirit or forms of the Middle Ages. [Written also medievalist.] 

MEDIAEVALLY:  In the manner of the Middle Ages; in accordance with mediævalism. 

MEDIAEVALS:  The people who lived in the Middle Ages. Ruskin. 

MEDIAL:  Of or pertaining to a mean or average; mean; as, medial alligation. 

MEDIAL:  See 2d Media. 

MEDIALUNA:  See Half-moon. 

MEDIAN:  Situated in the middle; lying in a plane dividing a bilateral animal into right and left halves; -- said of unpaired organs and parts; as, median coverts. Median line. (a) (Anat.) Any line in the mesial plane; specif., either of the lines in which the mesial plane meets the surface of the body. (b) (Geom.) The line drawn from an angle of a triangle to the middle of the opposite side; any line having the nature of a diameter.  -- Median plane (Anat.), the mesial plane.  -- Median point (Geom.), the point where the three median lines of a triangle mutually intersect. 

MEDIAN:  A median line or point. 

MEDIANT:  The third above the keynote; -- so called because it divides the interval between the tonic and dominant into two thirds. 

MEDIASTINAL:  Of or pertaining to a mediastinum.  MEDIASTINE; MEDIASTINUM Me`di*as"tine, Me`di*as*ti"num, n. Etym: [NL. mediastinum, fr. L. medius middle; cf. mediastinus helper, a menial servant, LL. mediastinus equiv. to medius: cf F. médiastin.] (Anat.)  A partition; a septum; specifically, the folds of the pleura (and the space included between them) which divide the thorax into a right and left cavity. The space included between these folds of the pleura, called the mediastinal space, contains the heart and gives passage to the esophagus and great blood vessels. 

MEDIATELY:  In a mediate manner; by a secondary cause or agent; not directly or primarily; by means; -- opposed to immediately. God worketh all things amongst us mediately. Sir W. Raleigh. The king grants a manor to A, and A grants a portion of it to B. In this case. B holds his lands immediately of A, but mediately of the king. Blakstone. 

MEDIATENESS:  The state of being mediate. 

MEDIATIVE:  Pertaining to mediation; used in mediation; as, mediative efforts. Beaconsfield. 

MEDIATIZATION:  The act of mediatizing. 

MEDIATIZE:  To cause to act through an agent or to hold a subordinate position; to annex; -- specifically applied to the annexation during the former German empire of a smaller German state to a larger, while allowing it a nominal sovereignty, and its prince his rank. The misfortune of being a mediatized prince. Beaconsfield. 

MEDIATOR:  One who mediates; especially, one who interposes between parties at variance for the purpose of reconciling them; hence, an intercessor. For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. 1 Tim. ii. 5. 

MEDIATORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a mediator, or to mediation; mediatory; as, a mediatorial office.  -- Me`di*a*to"ri*al*ly, adv. My measures were . . . healing and mediatorial. Burke. 

MEDIATORSHIP:  The office or character of a mediator. 

MEDIATORY:  Mediatorial.  MEDIATRESS; MEDIATRIX Me`di*a"tress, Me`di*a*"trix, n. Etym: [L. mediatrix, f. of mediator: cf. F. médiatrice.]  A female mediator. 

MEDIC:  A leguminous plant of the genus Medicago. The black medic is the Medicago lupulina; the purple medic, or lucern, is M. sativa. 

MEDIC:  Medical. [R.] 

MEDICABLE:  Capable of being medicated; admitting of being cured or healed. 

MEDICALLY:  In a medical manner; with reference to healing, or to the principles of the healing art. 

MEDICAMENT:  Anything used for healing diseases or wounds; a medicine; a healing application. 

MEDICAMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to medicaments or healing applications; having the qualities of medicaments.  -- Med`ica*men"tal*ly, adv. 

MEDICASTER:  A quack. [R.] Whitlock. 

MEDICATION:  The act or process of medicating. 

MEDICATIVE:  Medicinal; acting like a medicine. 

MEDICEAN:  Of or relating to the Medici, a noted Italian family; as, the Medicean Venus. Medicean planets (Astron.), a name given by Galileo to the satellites of Jupiter. 

MEDICINABLE:  Medicinal; having the power of healing. [Obs.] Shak. 

MEDICINALLY:  In a medicinal manner. 

MEDICINE:  A physician. [Obs.] Shak. Medicine bag, a charm; -- so called among the North American Indians, or in works relating to them.  -- Medicine man (among the North American Indians), a person who professes to cure sickness, drive away evil spirits, and regulate the weather by the arts of magic.  -- Medicine seal, a small gem or paste engraved with reversed characters, to serve as a seal. Such seals were used by Roman physicians to stamp the names of their medicines. 

MEDICINE:  To give medicine to; to affect as a medicine does; to remedy; to cure. "Medicine thee to that sweet sleep." Shak.  MEDICO-LEGAL Med`i*co-le"gal, a.  Of or pertaining to law as affected by medical facts. 

MEDICOMMISSURE:  A large transverse commissure in the third ventricle of the brain; the middle or soft commissure. B. G. Wildex. 

MEDICORNU:  The middle or inferior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain. B. G. Wilder. 

MEDICS:  Science of medicine. [Obs.] 

MEDIETY:  The middle part; half; moiety. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  MEDIEVAL; MEDIEVALISM; MEDIEVALIST Me`di*e"val, Me`di*e"val*ism, Me`di*e"val*ist.  Same as Medi, Medi, etc.  MEDINA EPOCH Me*di"na ep"och. Etym: [From Medina in New York.] (Geol.)  A subdivision of the Niagara period in the American upper Silurian, characterized by the formations known as the Oneida conglomerate, and the Medina sandstone. See the Chart of Geology. 

MEDINO:  Same as Para. 

MEDIOCRAL:  Mediocre. [R.] 

MEDIOCRE:  Of a middle quality; of but a moderate or low degree of excellence; indifferent; ordinary. " A very mediocre poet." Pope. 

MEDIOCRIST:  A mediocre person. [R.] 

MEDIOSTAPEDIAL:  Pertaining to that part of the columella of the ear which, in some animals, connects the stapes with the other parts of the columella.  -- n.  The mediostapedial part of the columella. 

MEDIOXUMOUS:  Intermediate. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

MEDITANCE:  Meditation. [Obs.] 

MEDITATE:  To keep the mind in a state of contemplation; to dwell on anything in thought; to think seriously; to muse; to cogitate; to reflect. Jer. Taylor. In his law doth he meditate day and night. Ps. i. 2. 

MEDITATIST:  One who is given to meditation. 

MEDITATIVE:  Disposed to meditate, or to meditation; as, a meditative man; a meditative mood.  -- Med"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.  -- Med"i*ta*tive*ness, n. 

MEDITERRANEAN:  A two-winged fly (Ceratitis capitata) with black and white markings, native of the Mediterranean countries, but now widely distributed. Its larva lives in ripening oranges, peaches, and other fruits, causing them to decay and fall. 

MEDITERRANEOUS:  Inland. Sir T. Browne. 

MEDIUM:  See Mean. (c) (Logic) The mean or middle term of a syllogism; that by which the extremes are brought into connection.  2. A substance through which an effect is transmitted from one thing to another; as, air is the common medium of sound. Hence: The condition upon which any event or action occurs; necessary means of motion or action; that through or by which anything is accomplished, conveyed, or carried on; specifically, in animal magnetism, spiritualism, etc., a person through whom the action of another being is said to be manifested and transmitted. Whether any other liquors, being made mediums, cause a diversity of sound from water, it may be tried. Bacon. I must bring together All these extremes; and must remove all mediums. Denham.  3. An average. [R.] A medium of six years of war, and six years of peace. Burke.  4. A trade name for printing and writing paper of certain sizes. See Paper.  5. (Paint.)  The liquid vehicle with which dry colors are ground and prepared for application. Circulating medium, a current medium of exchange, whether coin, bank notes, or government notes.  -- Ethereal medium (Physics), the ether.  -- Medium of exchange, that which is used for effecting an exchange of commodities -- money or current representatives of money. 

MEDIUM:  Having a middle position or degree; mean; intermediate; medial; as, a horse of medium size; a decoction of medium strength.  MEDIUM-SIZED Me"di*um-sized`, a.  Having a medium size; as, a medium-sized man. 

MEDIUS:  The third or middle finger; the third digit, or that which corresponds to it.  MEDJIDIE; MEDJIDIEH Me*dji"di*e, Me*dji"di*eh, n. [Turk. majidieh (prop. fem. a., fr. Ar. mejid glorious); -- so called after the sultan Abdul Mejid, lit., "servant of the Glorious One," i.e., of God.]  1.  (a) A silver coin of Turkey formerly rated at twenty, but since 1880 at nineteen, piasters (about 83 cents).  (b) A gold coin of Turkey equal to one hundred piastres ($4.396 or 18s. ¾d.); a lira, or Turkish pound.  2.  A Turkish honorary order established in 1851 by Abdul-Mejid, having as its badge a medallion surrounded by seven silver rays and crescents. It is often conferred on foreigners. 

MEDLAR:  A tree of the genus Mespilus (M. Germanica); also, the fruit of the tree. The fruit is something like a small apple, but has a bony endocarp. When first gathered the flesh is hard and austere, and it is not eaten until it has begun to decay. Japan medlar (Bot.), the loquat. See Loquat.  -- Neapolitan medlar (Bot.), a kind of thorn tree (Cratægus Azarolus); also, its fruit. 

MEDLE:  To mix; to mingle; to meddle. [Written also medly.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MEDLEY:  A composition of passages detached from several different compositions; a potpourri.  Note: Medley is usually applied to vocal, potpourri to instrumental, compositions.  4. A cloth of mixed colors. Fuller. 

MEDLY:  See Medle. Johnson. 

MEDOC:  A class of claret wines, including several varieties, from the district of Médoc in the department of Gironde. 

MEDREGAL:  See Bonito, 3. 

MEDRICK:  A species of gull or tern. [Prov.] Lowell. 

MEDULLA:  The marrow of bones; the deep or inner portion of an organ or part; as, the medulla, or medullary substance, of the kidney; specifically, the medula oblongata.  3. (Bot.)  A soft tissue, occupying the center of the stem or branch of a plant; pith. Medulla oblongata. Etym: [L., oblong medulla] (Anat.), the posterior part of the brain connected with the spinal cord. It includes all the hindbrain except the cerebellum and pons, and from it a large part of the cranial nerves arise. It controls very largely respiration, circulation, swallowing, and other functions, and is the most vital part of the brain; -- called also bulb of the spinal cord. See Brain. 

MEDULLAR:  See Medullary. 

MEDULLARY:  Filled with spongy pith; pithy. Medullary groove (Anat.), a groove, in the epiblast of the vertebrate blastoderm, the edges of which unite, making a tube (the medullary canal) from which the brain and spinal cord are developed.  -- Medullary rays (Bot.), the rays of cellular tissue seen in a transverse section of exogenous wood, which pass from the pith to the bark.  -- Medullary sheath (Anat.), the layer of white semifluid substance (myelin), between the primitive sheath and axis cylinder of a medullated nerve fiber. 

MEDULLATED:  Furnished with a medulla or marrow, or with a medullary sheath; as, a medullated nerve fiber. 

MEDULLIN:  A variety of lignin or cellulose found in the medulla, or pith, of certain plants. Cf. Lignin, and Cellulose. 

MEDUSA:  The Gorgon; or one of the Gorgons whose hair was changed into serpents, after which all who looked upon her were turned into stone.  2. [pl. Medusae (.] (Zoöl.)  Any free swimming acaleph; a jellyfish.  Note: The larger medusæ belong to the Discophora, and are sometimes called covered-eyed medusæ; others, known as naked-eyed medusæ, belong to the Hydroidea, and are usually developed by budding from hidroids. See Discophora, Hydroidea, and Hydromedusa. Medusa bud (Zoöl.), one of the buds of a hydroid, destined to develop into a gonophore or medusa. See Athecata, and Gonotheca.  -- Medusa's head. (a) (Zoöl.) An astrophyton. (b) (Astron.) A cluster of stars in the constellation Perseus. It contains the bright star Algol. 

MEDUSIAN:  A medusa. 

MEDUSIFORM:  Resembling a medusa in shape or structure. 

MEDUSOID:  Like a medusa; having the fundamental structure of a medusa, but without a locomotive disk; -- said of the sessile gonophores of hydroids.  -- n.  A sessile gonophore. See Illust. under Gonosome. 

MEECH:  See Mich. [Obs. or Colloq.] 

MEEDFUL:  Worthy of meed, reward, or recompense; meritorious. "Meedful works." Wiclif. 

MEEDFULLY:  According to merit; suitably. 

MEEK:  To make meek; to nurture in gentleness and humility. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MEEKLY:  In a meek manner. Spenser. 

MEEKNESS:  The quality or state of being meek. 

MEER:  Simple; unmixed. See Mere, a. [Obs.] 

MEER:  See Mere, a lake. 

MEER:  A boundary. See Mere. 

MEERKAT:  A South African carnivore (Cynictis penicillata), allied to the ichneumons. 

MEERSCHAUM:  A fine white claylike mineral, soft, and light enough when in dry masses to float in water. It is a hydrous silicate of magnesia, and is obtained chiefly in Asia Minor. It is manufacturd into tobacco pipes, cigar holders, etc. Also called sepiolite.  2. A tobacco pipe made of this mineral. 

MEET:  An assembling together; esp., the assembling of huntsmen for the hunt; also, the persons who so assemble, and the place of meeting. 

MEET:  Suitable; fit; proper; appropriate; qualified; convenient. It was meet that we should make merry. Luke xv. 32. To be meet with, to be even with; to be equal to. [Obs.] 

MEET:  Meetly. [Obs.] Shak. 

MEETEN:  To render fit. [R.] 

MEETER:  One who meets. 

MEETH:  , Mead. See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MEETINGHOUSE:  A house used as a place of worship; a church; -- in England, applied only to a house so used by Dissenters. 

MEETLY:  Fitly; suitably; properly. 

MEETNESS:  Fitness; suitableness; propriety.  MEG-; MEGA; MEGALO- Meg-, Meg"a, Meg"a*lo-. Etym: [Gr. me`gas, gen. mega`loy, great.]  Combining forms signifying: (a) Great, extended, powerful; as, megascope, megacosm. (b) (Metric System, Elec., Mech., etc.)  A million times, a million of; as, megameter, a million meters; megafarad, a million farads; megohm, a million ohms.  MEGACEPHALIC; MEGACEPHALOUS Meg`a*ce*phal"ic, Meg`a*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Mega- Gr. (Biol.)  Large headed; -- applied to animals, and to plants when they have large flower heads. 

MEGACEROS:  The Irish elk. 

MEGACHILE:  A leaf-cutting bee of the genus Megachilus. See Leaf cutter, under Leaf. 

MEGACOSM:  See Macrocosm. Croft. 

MEGACOULOMB:  A million coulombs. 

MEGADERM:  Any one of several species of Old World blood-sucking bats of the genus Megaderma. 

MEGADYNE:  One of the larger measures of force, amounting to one million dynes. 

MEGAFARAD:  One of the larger measures of electrical capacity, amounting to one million farads; a macrofarad. 

MEGALERG:  A million ergs; a megerg. 

MEGALESIAN:  Pertaining to, or in honor of, Cybele; as, the Megalesian games at Rome. 

MEGALETHOSCOPE:  An optical apparatus in which pictures are viewed through a large lens with stereoptical effects. It is often combined with the stereoscope. 

MEGALITH:  A large stone; especially, a large stone used in ancient building.  -- Meg`a*lith"ic, a.  MEGALO- Meg"a*lo-.  See Meg-.  MEGALOCEPHALIA; MEGALOCEPHALY Meg`a*lo*ce*pha"li*a, Meg`a*lo*ceph"a*ly, n. [NL. megalocephalia, fr. Gr.  having a large head.] (Med.)  The condition of having an abnormally large head. -- Meg`a*lo*ce*phal"ic (#), a. 

MEGALOCYTE:  A large, flattened corpuscle, twice the diameter of the ordinary red corpuscle, found in considerable numbers in the blood in profound anæmia. 

MEGALOMANIA:  A form of mental alienation in which the patient has grandiose delusions. 

MEGALONYX:  An extinct quaternary mammal, of great size, allied to the sloth. 

MEGALOPHONOUS:  Having a loud voice. 

MEGALOPOLIS:  A chief city; a metropolis. [R.] 

MEGALOPSYCHY:  Greatness of soul. [Obs. & R.]  MEGALOSAUR; MEGALOSAURUS Meg"a*lo*saur`, Meg`a*lo*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL. megalosaurus, fr. Gr. mégalosaure.] (Paleon.)  A gigantic carnivorous dinosaur, whose fossil remains have been found in England and elsewhere. 

MEGAMETER:  In the metric system, one million meters, or one thousand kilometers. 

MEGAMPERE:  A million ampères. 

MEGAPHONE:  A device to magnify sound, or direct it in a given direction in a greater volume, as a very large funnel used as an ear trumpet or as a speaking trumpet. 

MEGAPHYTON:  An extinct genus of tree ferns with large, two-ranked leaves, or fronds. 

MEGAPODE:  Any one of several species of large-footed, gallinaceous birds of the genera Megapodius and Leipoa, inhabiting Australia and other Pacific islands. See Jungle fowl (b) under Jungle, and Leipoa. 

MEGAPOLIS:  A metropolis. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.  MEGARIAN; MEGARIC Me*ga"ri*an, Me*gar"ic, a.  Belonging, or pertaining, to Megara, a city of ancient Greece. Megarian, or Megaric, school, a school of philosophy established at Megara, after the death of Socrates, by his disciples, and remarkable for its logical subtlety. 

MEGASCOPE:  A modification of the magic lantern, used esp. for throwing a magnified image of an opaque object on a screen, solar or artificial light being used.  MEGASCOPIC; MEGASCOPICAL Meg`a*scop"ic, Meg`a*scop"ic*al, a.  1. (Physics) Of or pertaining to the megascope or the projection upon a screen of images of opaque objects.  (b) Enlarged or magnified; -- said of images or of photographic pictures, etc.  2. (Geol.) Large enough to be seen; --said of the larger structural features and components of rocks which do not require the use of the microscope to be perceived. Opposed to microscopic. 

MEGASEME:  Having the orbital index relatively large; having the orbits narrow transversely; -- opposed to microseme.  MEGASS; MEGASSE Me"gass", Me*gasse", n.  See Bagasse. 

MEGASTHENE:  One of a group which includes the higher orders of mammals, having a large size as a typical characteristic. 

MEGASTHENIC:  Having a typically large size; belonging to the megasthenes. 

MEGASTOME:  One of a group of univalve shells, having a large aperture or mouth.  MEGATHERE; MEGATHERIUM Meg"a*there, Meg`a*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. megatherium, fr. Gr. me`gas great + thyri`on beast.] (Paleon.)  An extinct gigantic quaternary mammal, allied to the ant-eaters and sloths. Its remains are found in South America. 

MEGATHEROID:  One of a family of extinct edentates found in America. The family includes the megatherium, the megalonyx, etc. 

MEGAVOLT:  One of the larger measures of electro-motive force, amounting to one million volts. 

MEGAWEBER:  A million webers. 

MEGERG:  One of the larger measures of work, amounting to one million ergs; -- called also megalerg.  MEGILP; MEGILPH Me*gilp", Me*gilph", n. (Paint.)  A gelatinous compound of linseed oil and mastic varnish, used by artists as a vehicle for colors. [Written also magilp, and magilph.] 

MEGOHM:  One of the larger measures of electrical resistance, amounting to one million ohms. 

MEGRIM:  A sudden vertigo in a horse, succeeded sometimes by unconsciousness, produced by an excess of blood in the brain; a mild form of apoplexy. Youatt. 

MEGRIM:  The British smooth sole, or scaldfish (Psetta arnoglossa). 

MEIBOMIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Meibomius. Meibomian glands, the slender sebaceous glands of the eyelids, which discharge, through minute orifices in the edges of the lids, a fatty secretion serving to lubricate the adjacent parts. 

MEINE:  See Menge.  MEINE; MEINY Mein"e, Mein"y, (, n. Etym: [OF. maisniée, maisnie. See Menial.]  1. A family, including servants, etc.; household; retinue; train. [Obs.] Chaucer. Shak.  2. Company; band; army. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MEIOCENE:  See Miocene. 

MEIONITE:  A member of the scapolite, group, occuring in glassy crystals on Monte Somma, near Naples. 

MEIOSIS:  Diminution; a species of hyperbole, representing a thing as being less than it really is. 

MEIOSTEMONOUS:  Having fever stamens than the parts of the corolla. 

MEISTERSINGER:  See Mastersinger. 

MEKHITARIST:  See Mechitarist. 

MELACONITE:  An earthy black oxide of copper, arising from the decomposition of other ores.  MELADA; MELADO Me*la"da, Me*la"do, n. Etym: [Sp., prop. p. p. of melar to sugar, candy, fr. L. mel honey. See Molasses.]  A mixture of sugar and molasses; crude sugar as it comes from the pans without being drained. 

MELAENA:  A discharge from the bowels of black matter, consisting of altered blood. 

MELAIN:  The dark coloring matter of the liquid of the cuttlefish. 

MELAINOTYPE:  See Melanotype. 

MELAM:  A white or buff-colored granular powder, 

MELAMINE:  A strong nitrogenous base, C3H6N6, produced from several cyanogen compounds, and obtained as a white crystalline substance, -- formerly supposed to be produced by the decomposition of melam. Called also cyanuramide. 

MELAMPODE:  The black hellebore. [Obs.] Spenser.  MELAMPYRIN; MELAMPYRITE Mel`am*py"rin, Mel`am*py"rite, n. Etym: [NL. Melampyrum cowwheat; Gr. (Chem.)  The saccharine substance dulcite; -- so called because found in the leaves of cowwheat (Melampyrum). See Dulcite. 

MELANAEMIA:  A morbid condition in which the blood contains black pigment either floating freely or imbedded in the white blood corpuscles. 

MELANAGOGUE:  A medicine supposed to expel black bile or choler. [Obs.] 

MELANCHOLIA:  A kind of mental unsoundness characterized by extreme depression of spirits, ill-grounded fears, delusions, and brooding over one particular subject or train of ideas. 

MELANCHOLIAN:  A person affected with melancholy; a melancholic. [Obs.] Dr. J. Scott. 

MELANCHOLIC:  Given to melancholy; depressed; melancholy; dejected; unhappy. Just as the melancholic eye Sees fleets and armies in the sky. Prior. 

MELANCHOLILY:  In a melancholy manner. 

MELANCHOLINESS:  The state or quality of being melancholy. Hallywell. 

MELANCHOLIOUS:  Melancholy. [R.] Milton. 

MELANCHOLIST:  One affected with melancholy or dejection. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

MELANCHOLIZE:  To become gloomy or dejected in mind. Barrow. 

MELANCHOLIZE:  To make melancholy. 

MELANCONIACEAE:  A family of fungi constituting the order Melanconiales. -- Mel`an*co`ni*a"ceous (#), a. 

MELANCONIALES:  The smallest of the three orders of Fungi Imperfecti, including those with no asci nor pycnidia, but as a rule having the spores in cavities without special walls. They cause many of the plant diseases known as anthracnose. 

MELANESIAN:  Of or pertaining to Melanesia. 

MELANGE:  A mixture; a medley. 

MELANIAN:  One of a family of fresh-water pectinibranchiate mollusks, having a turret-shaped shell. 

MELANIC:  Of or pertaining to the black-haired races. Prichard. 

MELANILINE:  A complex nitrogenous hydrocarbon obtained artificially (as by the action of cyanogen chloride on aniline) as a white, crystalline substance; -- called also diphenyl guanidin. 

MELANIN:  A black pigment found in the pigment-bearing cells of the skin (particularly in the skin of the negro), in the epithelial cells of the external layer of the retina (then called fuscin), in the outer layer of the choroid, and elsewhere. It is supposed to be derived from the decomposition of hemoglobin. 

MELANISM:  A disease; black jaundice. See Mel. 

MELANISTIC:  Affected with melanism; of the nature of melanism. 

MELANITE:  A black variety of garnet. 

MELANOCHROI:  A group of the human race, including the dark whites. 

MELANOCHROIC:  Having a dark complexion; of or pertaining to the Melanochroi. 

MELANOCHROITE:  A mineral of a red, or brownish or yellowish red color. It is a chromate of lead; -- called also phoenicocroite. 

MELANOCOMOUS:  Having very dark or black hair; black-haired. Prichard. 

MELANORRHOEA:  An East Indian genus of large trees. Melanorrhoea usitatissima is the lignum-vitæ of Peru, and yelds a valuable black varnish. 

MELANOSCOPE:  An instrument containing a combination of colored glasses such that they transmit only red light, so that objects of other colors, as green leaves, appear black when seen through it. It is used for viewing colored flames, to detect the presence of potassium, lithium, etc., by the red light which they emit. 

MELANOSIS:  The morbid deposition of black matter, often of a malignant character, causing pigmented tumors. 

MELANOSPERM:  An alga of any kind that produces blackish spores, or seed dust. The melanosperms include the rockweeds and all kinds of kelp.  -- Mel`a*no*sper"mous, a. 

MELANOTIC:  , Melanistic. 

MELANOTYPE:  A positive picture produced with sensitized collodion on a smooth surface of black varnish, coating a thin plate of iron; also, the process of making such a picture. [Written also melainotype.] 

MELANTERITE:  A hydrous sulphate of iron of a green color and vitreous luster; iron vitriol. 

MELANURE:  A small fish of the Mediterranean; a gilthead. See Gilthead (a). 

MELANURIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid obtained by decomposition of melam, or of urea, as a white crystalline powder; -- called also melanurenic acid. 

MELAPHYRE:  Any one of several dark-colored augitic, eruptive rocks allied to basalt. 

MELASMA:  A dark discoloration of the skin, usually local; as, Addison's melasma, or Addison's disease.  -- Me*las"mic, a. 

MELASSES:  See Molasses. 

MELASSIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from molasses or glucose, and probably identical with saccharic acid. See Saccharic. 

MELASTOMA:  A genus of evergreen tropical shrubs; -- so called from the black berries of some species, which stain the mouth. 

MELASTOMACEOUS:  Belonging to the order of which Melastoma is the type. 

MELCHITE:  One of a sect, chiefly in Syria and Egypt, which acknowledges the authority of the pope, but adheres to the liturgy and ceremonies of the Eastern Church. 

MELD:  In the game of pinochle, to declare or announce for a score; as, to meld a sequence. 

MELD:  Any combination or score which may be declared, or melded, in pinochle. 

MELEAGRINE:  Of or pertaining to the genus Meleagris. 

MELEAGRIS:  A genus of American gallinaceous birds, including the common and the wild turkeys. 

MELEE:  A fight in which the combatants are mingled 

MELENA:  See Mel. 

MELENE:  An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C30H60, of the ethylene series, obtained from beeswax as a white, scaly, crystalline wax; -- called also melissene, and melissylene. 

MELENITE:  An explosive of great destructive power; -- so called from its color, which resembles honey. 

MELETIN:  See Quercitin. 

MELEZITOSE:  A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose, extracted from the manna of the larch (Larix). [Written also melicitose.] 

MELIACEOUS:  Pertaining to a natural order (Meliacæ) of plants of which the genus Melia is the type. It includes the mahogany and the Spanish cedar.  MELIBEAN; MELIBOEAN Mel`i*be"an, Mel`i*boe"an, a. Etym: [From L. Meliboeus, one of the interlocutors in Virgil's first Eclogue.] (Rhet.)  Alternately responsive, as verses. 

MELIC:  Of or pertaining to song; lyric; tuneful. 

MELICEROUS:  Consisting of or containing matter like honey; -- said of certain encysted tumors.  MELIC GRASS Mel"ic grass`. (Bot.)  A genus of grasses (Melica) of little agricultural importance. 

MELICOTOON:  See Melocoton. 

MELICRATORY:  A meadlike drink. [Obs.] 

MELILITE:  A mineral occurring in small yellow crystals, found in the lavas (melilite basalt) of Vesuvius, and elsewhere. [Written also mellilite.] 

MELILOT:  Any species of Melilotus, a genus of leguminous herbs having a vanillalike odor; sweet clover; hart's clover. The blue melilot (Melilotus cærulea) is used in Switzerland to give color and flavor to sapsago cheese. 

MELILOTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sweet clover or meliot; specifically, designating an acid of the aromatic series, obtained from melilot as a white crystalline substance. 

MELINITE:  A high explosive similar to lyddite, consisting principally of picric acid, used in the French military service. 

MELIORATE:  To make better; to improve; to ameliorate; to soften; to make more tolerable. Nature by art we nobly meliorate. Denham. The pure and bening light of revelation has had a meliorating influence on mankind. Washington. 

MELIORATE:  To grow better. 

MELIORATER:  Same as Meliorator. 

MELIORATION:  The act or operation of meliorating, or the state of being meliorated; improvement. Bacon. 

MELIORATOR:  One who meliorates. 

MELIORISM:  The doctrine that there is a tendency throughout nature toward improvement. J. Sully. 

MELIORITY:  The state or quality of being better; melioration. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MELIPHAGAN:  Belonging to the genus Meliphaga. 

MELIPHAGAN:  Any bird of the genus Meliphaga and allied genera; a honey eater; -- called also meliphagidan. 

MELIPHAGOUS:  Eating, or feeding upon, honey. 

MELISSA:  A genus of labiate herbs, including the balm, or bee balm (Melissa officinalis). 

MELISSIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax; specif., denoting an acid obtained by oxidation of myricin. 

MELISSYL:  See Myricyl. 

MELISSYLENE:  See Melene. 

MELITOSE:  A variety of sugar isomeric with sucrose, extracted from cotton seeds and from the so-called Australian manna (a secretion of certain species of Eucalyptus). 

MELL:  To mix; to meddle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MELL:  Honey. [Obs.] Warner. 

MELL:  A mill. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MELLATE:  A mellitate. [R.] 

MELLAY:  A mêlée; a conflict. Tennyson. 

MELLIC:  See Mellitic. [R.] 

MELLIFEROUS:  Producing honey. 

MELLIFIC:  Producing honey. 

MELLIFICATION:  The making or production of honey. 

MELLIFLUENCE:  A flow of sweetness, or a sweet, smooth flow. 

MELLIFLUENT:  Flowing as with honey; smooth; mellifluous. 

MELLIFLUENTLY:  In a mellifluent manner. 

MELLIFLUOUS:  Flowing as with honey; smooth; flowing sweetly or smoothly; as, a mellifluous voice.  -- Mel*lif"lu*ous*ly, adv. 

MELLIGENOUS:  Having the qualities of honey. [R.] 

MELLIGO:  Honeydew. 

MELLILOQUENT:  Speaking sweetly or harmoniously. 

MELLIPHAGAN:  See Meliphagan. 

MELLIPHAGOUS:  See Meliphagous. 

MELLITATE:  A salt of mellitic acid. 

MELLITE:  A mineral of a honey color, found in brown coal, and partly the result of vegetable decomposition; honeystone. It is a mellitate of alumina. 

MELLONE:  A yellow powder, C6H3N9, obtained from certain sulphocyanates. It has acid properties and forms compounds called mellonides. 

MELLONIDE:  See Mellone. 

MELLOW:  To make mellow. Shak. If the Weather prove frosty to mellow it [the ground], they do not plow it again till April. Mortimer. The fervor of early feeling is tempered and mellowed by the ripeness of age. J. C. Shairp. 

MELLOW:  To become mellow; as, ripe fruit soon mellows. "Prosperity begins to mellow." Shak. 

MELLOWLY:  In a mellow manner. 

MELLOWNESS:  Quality or state of being mellow. 

MELLOWY:  Soft; unctuous. Drayton. 

MELLUCO:  A climbing plant (Ullucus officinalis) of the Andes, having tuberous roots which are used as a substitute for potatoes. 

MELNE:  A mill. [Obs.] Chaucer.  MELOCOTON; MELOCOTOON Mel`o*co*ton", Mel`o*co*toon", n. Etym: [Sp. melocoton a kind of peach tree and its fruit, L. malum cotonium, or cotonea, or Cydonia, a quince, or quince tree, lit., apple of Cydonia, Gr. Quince.] (Bot.) (a) A quince. (b) A kind of peach having one side deep red, and the flesh yellow. [Written also malacatoon, malacotune.] 

MELODEON:  A kind of small reed organ; -- a portable form of the seraphine.  2. A music hall. 

MELODIC:  Of the nature of melody; relating to, containing, or made up of, melody; melodious. 

MELODICS:  The department of musical science which treats of the pitch of tones, and of the laws of melody. 

MELODIOGRAPH:  A contrivance for preserving a record of music, by recording the action of the keys of a musical instrument when played upon. 

MELODIOUS:  Containing, or producing, melody; musical; agreeable to the ear by a sweet succession of sounds; as, a melodious voice. "A melodious voice." "A melodious undertone." Longfellow.  -- Me*lo"di*ous*ly, adv.  -- Me*lo"di*ous*ness, n. 

MELODIST:  A composer or singer of melodies. 

MELODIZE:  To make melodious; to form into, or set to, melody. 

MELODIZE:  To make melody; to compose melodies; to harmonize. 

MELODRAMA:  Formerly, a kind of drama having a musical accompaniment to intensify the effect of certain scenes. Now, a drama abounding in romantic sentiment and agonizing situations, with a musical accompaniment only in parts which are especially thrilling or pathetic. In opera, a passage in which the orchestra plays a somewhat descriptive accompaniment, while the actor speaks; as, the melodrama in the gravedigging scene of Beethoven's "Fidelio". 

MELODRAMATIC:  Of or pertaining to melodrama; like or suitable to a melodrama; unnatural in situation or action.  -- Mel`o*dra*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

MELODRAMATIST:  One who acts in, or writes, melodramas. 

MELODRAME:  Melodrama. 

MELODY:  A rhythmical succession of single tones, ranging for the most part within a given key, and so related together as to form a musical whole, having the unity of what is technically called a musical thought, at once pleasing to the ear and characteristic in expression.  Note: Melody consists in a succession of single tones; harmony is a consonance or agreement of tones, also a succession of consonant musical combinations or chords.  3. The air or tune of a musical piece.  Syn.  -- See Harmony. 

MELOE:  A genus of beetles without wings, but having short oval elytra; the oil beetles. These beetles are sometimes used instead of cantharides for raising blisters. See Oil beetle, under Oil. 

MELOGRAPH:  Same as Melodiograph. 

MELOLONTHIDIAN:  A beetle of the genus Melolontha, and allied genera. See May beetle, under May. 

MELON:  The juicy fruit of certain cucurbitaceous plants, as the muskmelon, watermelon, and citron melon; also, the plant that produces the fruit.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large, ornamental, marine, univalve shell of the genus Melo. Melon beetle (Zoöl.), a small leaf beetle (Diabrotiea vittata), which damages the leaves of melon vines.  -- Melon cactus, Melon thistle. (a) (Bot.) A genus of cactaceous plants (Melocactus) having a fleshy and usually globose stem with the surface divided into spiny longitudinal ridges, and bearing at the top a prickly and woolly crown in which the small pink flowers are half concealed. M. communis, from the West Indies, is often cultivated, and sometimes called Turk's cap. (b) The related genus Mamillaria, in which the stem is tubercled rather than ribbed, and the flowers sometimes large. See Illust. under Cactus. 

MELOPIANO:  A piano having a mechanical attachment which enables the player to prolong the notes at will. 

MELOPLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to meloplasty, or the artificial formation of a new cheek. 

MELOPLASTY:  The process of restoring a cheek which has been destroyed wholly or in part. 

MELOPOEIA:  The art of forming melody; melody; -- now often used for a melodic passage, rather than a complete melody. 

MELOTYPE:  A picture produced by a process in which development after exposure may be deferred indefinitely, so as to permit transportation of exposed plates; also, the process itself. 

MELPOMENE:  The Muse of tragedy.  2. (Astron.)  The eighteenth asteroid. 

MELROSE:  Honey of roses. 

MELT:  See 2d Milt. 

MELTABLE:  Capable of being melted. 

MELTER:  , One who, or that which, melts. 

MELTING:  Liquefaction; the act of causing (something) to melt, or the process of becoming melted. Melting point (Chem.), the degree of temperature at which a solid substance melts or fuses; as, the melting point of ice is 0º Centigrade or 32º Fahr., that of urea is 132º Centigrade.  -- Melting pot, a vessel in which anything is melted; a crucible. 

MELTING:  Causing to melt; becoming melted; -- used literally or figuratively; as, a melting heat; a melting appeal; a melting mood.  -- Melt"ing*ly, adv. 

MELTON:  A kind of stout woolen cloth with unfinished face and without raised nap. A commoner variety has a cotton warp. 

MELUNGEON:  One of a mixed white and Indian people living in parts of Tennessee and the Carolinas. They are descendants of early intermixtures of white settlers with natives. In North Carolina the Croatan Indians, regarded as descended from Raleigh's lost colony of Croatan, formerly classed with negroes, are now legally recognized as distinct. 

MEMBER:  To remember; to cause to remember; to mention. [Obs.] 

MEMBER:  A part of an animal capable of performing a distinct office; an organ; a limb. We have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office. Rom. xii. 4.  2. Hence, a part of a whole; an independent constituent of a body; as: (a) A part of a discourse or of a period or sentence; a clause; a part of a verse. (b) (Math.) Either of the two parts of an algebraic equation, connected by the sign of equality. (c) (Engin.)  Any essential part, as a post, tie rod, strut, etc., of a framed structure, as a bridge truss. (d) (Arch.) Any part of a building, whether constructional, as a pier, column, lintel, or the like, or decorative, as a molding, or group of moldings. (e) One of the persons composing a society, community, or the like; an individual forming part of an association; as, a member of the society of Friends. Compression member, Tension member (Engin.), a member, as a rod, brace, etc., which is subjected to compression or tension, respectively. 

MEMBERED:  Having legs of a different tincture from that of the body; -- said of a bird in heraldic representations. 

MEMBRAL:  Relating to a member. 

MEMBRANACEOUS:  Thin and rather soft or pliable, as the leaves of the rose, peach tree, and aspen poplar. 

MEMBRANE:  A thin layer or fold of tissue, usually supported by a fibrous network, serving to cover or line some part or organ, and often secreting or absorbing certain fluids.  Note: The term is also often applied to the thin, expanded parts, of various texture, both in animals and vegetables. Adventitious membrane, a membrane connecting parts not usually connected, or of a different texture from the ordinary connection; as, the membrane of a cicatrix.  -- Jacob's membrane. See under Retina.  -- Mucous membranes (Anat.), the membranes lining passages and cavities which communicate with the exterior, as well as ducts and receptacles of secretion, and habitually secreting mucus.  -- Schneiderian membrane. (Anat.) See Schneiderian.  -- Serous membranes (Anat.) , the membranes, like the peritoneum and pleura, which line, or lie in, cavities having no obvious outlet, and secrete a serous fluid. 

MEMBRANEOUS:  See Membranous. 

MEMBRANIFEROUS:  Having or producing membranes. 

MEMBRANIFORM:  Having the form of a membrane or of parchment. 

MEMBRANOLOGY:  The science which treats of membranes. 

MEMBRANOUS:  Membranaceous. Membranous croup (Med.), true croup. See Croup. 

MEMENTO:  A hint, suggestion, token, or memorial, to awaken memory; that which reminds or recalls to memory; a souvenir. Seasonable mementos may be useful. Bacon.  MEMENTO MORI Me*men"to mo"ri. [L.]  Lit., remember to die, i.e., that you must die; a warning to be prepared for death; an object, as a death's-head or a personal ornament, usually emblematic, used as a reminder of death. 

MEMINNA:  A small deerlet, or chevrotain, of India. 

MEMNON:  A celebrated Egyptian statue near Thebes, said to have the property of emitting a harplike sound at sunrise.  MEMOIR; MEMOIRS Mem"oir, or pl. Mem"oirs, n. Etym: [F. mémoire, m., memorandum, fr. mémoire, f., memory, L. memoria. See Memory.]  1. A memorial account; a history composed from personal experience and memory; an account of transactions or events (usually written in familiar style) as they are remembered by the writer. See History, 2.  2. A memorial of any individual; a biography; often, a biography written without special regard to method and completeness.  3. An account of something deemed noteworthy; an essay; a record of investigations of any subject; the journals and proceedings of a society. 

MEMOIRIST:  A writer of memoirs. 

MEMORABILIA:  Things remarkable and worthy of remembrance or record; also, the record of them. 

MEMORABILITY:  The quality or state of being memorable. 

MEMORABLE:  Worthy to be remembered; very important or remarkable.  -- Mem"o*ra*ble*ness, n.  -- Mem"o*ra*bly, adv. Surviving fame to gain, Buy tombs, by books, by memorable deeds. Sir J. Davies. 

MEMORANDUM:  A brief or informal note in writing of some transaction, or an outline of an intended instrument; an instrument drawn up in a brief and compendious form. Memorandum check, a check given as an acknowledgment of indebtedness, but with the understanding that it will not be presented at bank unless the maker fails to take it up on the day the debt becomes due. It usually has Mem. written on its face. 

MEMORATE:  To commemorate. [Obs.] 

MEMORATIVE:  Commemorative. [Obs.] Hammond. 

MEMORIA:  Memory. Memoria technica, technical memory; a contrivance for aiding the memory. 

MEMORIAL:  A species of informal state paper, much used in negotiation.  MEMORIAL DAY Me*mo"ri*al Day.  A day, May 30, appointed for commemorating, by decorating their graves with flowers, by patriotic exercises, etc., the dead soldiers and sailors who served the Civil War (1861-65) in the United States; Decoration Day. It is a legal holiday in most of the States. In the Southern States, the Confederate Memorial Day is: May 30 in Virginia; April 26 in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi; May 10 in North Carolina and South Carolina; the second Friday in May in Tennessee; June 3 in Louisiana. [U. S.] 

MEMORIALIST:  One who writes or signs a memorial. 

MEMORIALIZE:  To address or petition by a memorial; to present a memorial to; as, to memorialize the legislature. T. Hook. 

MEMORIALIZER:  One who petitions by a memorial. T. Hook.  MEMORIAL ROSE Memorial rose.  A Japanese evergreen rose (Rosa wichuraiana) with creeping branches, shining leaves, and single white flowers. It is often planted in cemeteries. 

MEMORIST:  One who, or that which, causes to be remembered. [Obs.] 

MEMORITER:  By, or from, memory. 

MEMPHIAN:  Of or pertaining to the ancient city of Memphis in Egypt; hence, Egyptian; as, Memphian darkness.  MEM-SAHIB Mem"-sa`hib, n. [Hind. mem-sahib; mem (fr. E. ma'am) + Ar. çahib master. See Sahib.]  Lady; mistress; -- used by Hindustani-speaking natives in India in addressing European women. 

MEN:  pl. of Man. 

MEN:  A man; one; -- used with a verb in the singular, and corresponding to the present indefinite one or they. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Men moot give silver to the poure triars. Chaucer. A privy thief, men clepeth death. Chaucer. 

MENACCANITE:  An iron-black or steel-gray mineral, consisting chiefly of the oxides of iron and titanium. It is commonly massive, but occurs also in rhombohedral crystals. Called also titanic iron ore, and ilmenite. 

MENACE:  The show of an intention to inflict evil; a threat or threatening; indication of a probable evil or catastrophe to come. His (the pope's) commands, his rebukes, his menaces. Milman. The dark menace of the distant war. Dryden. 

MENACE:  To act in threatening manner; to wear a threatening aspect. Who ever knew the heavens menace so Shak. 

MENACER:  One who menaces. 

MENACINGLY:  In a threatening manner. 

MENAGE:  See Manage. 

MENAGE:  A collection of animals; a menagerie. [Obs.] Addison. 

MENAGOGUE:  Emmenagogue. 

MENAION:  A work of twelve volumes, each containing the offices in the Greek Church for a month; also, each volume of the same. Shipley.  MENALD; MENILD Men"ald, Men"ild, a.  Covered with spots; speckled; variegated. [Obs.] 

MEND:  To grow better; to advance to a better state; to become improved. Shak. 

MENDABLE:  Capable of being mended. 

MENDELIAN:  Pert. to Mendel, or to Mendel's law. -- Men*de"li*an*ism (#), Men*del"ism (#), n.  MENDELIAN CHARACTER Mendelian character. (Biol.)  A character which obeys Mendel's law in regard to its hereditary transmission.  MENDEL'S LAW Men"del's law.  A principle governing the inheritance of many characters in animals and plants, discovered by Gregor J. Mendel (Austrian Augustinian abbot, 1822-84) in breeding experiments with peas. He showed that the height, color, and other characters depend on the presence of determinating factors behaving as units. In any given germ cell each of these is either present or absent. The following example (using letters as symbols of the determining factors and hence also of the individuals possessing them) shows the operation of the law: Tallness being due to a factor T, a tall plant, arising by the union in fertilization of two germ cells both bearing this factor, is TT; a dwarf, being without T, is tt. Crossing these, crossbreeds, Tt, result (called generation F1). In the formation of the germ cells of these crossbreeds a process of segregation occurs such that germ cells, whether male or female, are produced of two kinds, T and t, in equal numbers. The T cells bear the factor "tallness," the t cells are devoid of it. The offspring, generation F2, which arise from the chance union of these germ cells in pairs, according to the law of probability, are therefore on an average in the following proportions:  1 TT : 2 Tt : 1 tt;  and thus plants pure in tallness (TT) and dwarfness (tt), as well as crossbreeds (Tt), are formed by the interbreeding of crossbreeds. Frequently, as in this example, owning to what is called the dominance of a factor, the operation of Mendel's law may be complicated by the fact that when a dominant factor (as T) occurs with its allelomorph (as t), called recessive, in the crossbreed Tt, the individual Tt is itself indistinguishable from the pure form TT. Generation F1, containing only the Tt form, consists entirely of dominants (tall plants) and generation F2 consists of three dominants (2 Tt, 1 TT) to one dwarf (tt), which, displaying the feature suppressed in F1, is called recessive. Such qualitative and numerical regularity has been proved to exist in regard to very diverse qualities or characters which compose living things, both wild and domesticated, such as colors of flowers, of hair or eyes, patterns, structure, chemical composition, and power of resisting certain diseases. The diversity of forms produced in crossbreeding by horticulturists and fanciers generally results from a process of analytical variation or recombination of the factors composing the parental types. Purity of type consequently acquires a specific meaning. An individual is pure in respect of a given character when it results from the union of two sexual cells both bearing that character, or both without it. 

MENDER:  One who mends or repairs. 

MENDIANT:  See Mendinant. [Obs.] 

MENDICANCY:  The condition of being mendicant; beggary; begging. Burke. 

MENDICANT:  Practicing beggary; begging; living on alms; as, mendicant friars. Mendicant orders (R. C. Ch.), certain monastic orders which are forbidden to acquire landed property and are required to be supported by alms, esp. the Franciscans, the Dominicans, the Carmelites, and the Augustinians. 

MENDICANT:  A beggar; esp., one who makes a business of begging; specifically, a begging friar. 

MENDICATE:  To beg. [R.] Johnson. 

MENDICATION:  The act or practice of begging; beggary; mendicancy. Sir T. Browne. 

MENDICITY:  The practice of begging; the life of a beggar; mendicancy. Rom. of R. 

MENDINANT:  A mendicant or begging friar. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MENDMENT:  Amendment. [Obs.] 

MENDOLE:  The cackerel. 

MENDREGAL:  Medregal. 

MENDS:  See Amends. [Obs.] Shak. 

MENGE:  To mix. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MENHADEN:  An American marine fish of the Herring familt (Brevoortia tyrannus), chiefly valuable for its oil and as a component of fertilizers; -- called also mossbunker, bony fish, chebog, pogy, hardhead, whitefish, etc. 

MENHIR:  A large stone set upright in olden times as a memorial or monument. Many, of unknown date, are found in Brittany and throughout Northern Europe. 

MENIAL:  A disease characterized by deafness and vertigo, resulting in incoördination of movement. It is supposed to depend upon a morbid condition of the semicircular canals of the internal ear. Named after Ménière, a French physician. 

MENILITE:  See Opal. 

MENINGEAL:  Of or pertaining to the meninges. 

MENINGES:  The three membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord; the pia mater, dura mater, and arachnoid membrane. 

MENINGITIS:  Inflammation of the membranes of the brain or spinal cord. Cerebro-spinal meningitis. See under Cerebro-spinal. 

MENISCAL:  Pertaining to, or having the form of, a meniscus. 

MENISCOID:  Concavo-convex, like a meniscus. 

MENISCUS:  A lens convex on one side and concave on the other.  3. (Anat.)  An interarticular synovial cartilage or membrane; esp., one of the intervertebral synovial disks in some parts of the vertebral column of birds. Converging meniscus, Diverging meniscus. See Lens. 

MENISPERMACEOUS:  Pertaining to a natural order (Menispermaceæ) of climbing plants of which moonseed (Menispermum) is the type. 

MENISPERMIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, moonseed (Menispermum), or other plants of the same family, as the Anamirta Cocculus. 

MENISPERMINE:  An alkaloid distinct from picrotoxin and obtained from the cocculus indicus (the fruit of Anamirta Cocculus, formerly Menispermum Cocculus) as a white, crystalline, tasteless powder; -- called also menispermina. 

MENIVER:  Same as Miniver.  MENNONIST; MENNONITE Men"non*ist, Men"non*ite, n. (Eccl. Hist.)  One of a small denomination of Christians, so called from Menno Simons of Friesland, their founder. They believe that the New Testament is the only rule of faith, that there is no original sin, that infants should not be baptized, and that Christians ought not to take oath, hold office, or render military service.  MENOBRANCH; MENOBRANCHUS Men"o*branch, Men`o*bran"chus, n. Etym: [NL. menobranchus, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  A large aquatic American salamander of the genus Necturus, having permanent external gills.  MENOLOGIUM; MENOLOGY Men`o*lo"gi*um, Me*nol"o*gy, n.; pl. L. Menologia, E. Menologies. Etym: [NL. menologium, fr. Gr. ménologe.]  1. A register of months. Bp. Stillingfleet.  2. (Gr. Church)  A brief calendar of the lives of the saints for each day in the year, or a simple remembrance of those whose lives are not written. 

MENOPAUSE:  The period of natural cessation of menstruation. See Change of life, under Change.  MENOPOMA; MENOPOME Men`o*po"ma, Men"o*pome, n. Etym: [NL. menopoma, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  The hellbender. 

MENOSTASIS:  Stoppage of the mences. 

MENOSTATION:  Same as Menostasis. 

MENOW:  A minnow.  MEN-PLEASER Men"-pleas`er, n.  One whose motive is to please men or the world, rather than God. Eph. vi. 6. 

MENSAL:  Belonging to the table; transacted at table; as, mensa conversation. 

MENSAL:  Occurring once in a month; monthly. 

MENSE:  Manliness; dignity; comeliness; civility. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] -- Mense"ful, a.  -- Mense"less, a. 

MENSE:  To grace. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

MENSES:  The catamenial or menstrual discharge, a periodic flow of blood or bloody fluid from the uterus or female generative organs. 

MENSTRUANT:  Subject to monthly flowing or menses. 

MENSTRUATE:  Menstruous. [Obs.] 

MENSTRUATE:  To discharge the menses; to have the catamenial flow. 

MENSTRUATION:  The discharge of the menses; also, the state or the period of menstruating. 

MENSTRUE:  The menstrual flux; menses. [Obs.] 

MENSTRUUM:  Any substance which dissolves a solid body; a solvent. The proper menstruum to dissolve metal. Bacon. All liquors are called menstruums which are used as dissolvents, or to extract the virtues of ingredients by infusion or decoction. Quincy.  Note: The use is supposed to have originated in some notion of the old chemists about the influence of the moon in the preparation of dissolvents. Johnson. 

MENSURABILITY:  The quality of being mensurable. 

MENSURABLE:  Capable of being measured; measurable. 

MENSURABLENESS:  The quality or state of being mensurable; measurableness. 

MENSURAL:  Of or pertaining to measure. 

MENSURATE:  To measure. [Obs.] 

MENSURATION:  A suffix denoting that which does a thing; an act or process; the result of an act or process; state or condition; as, aliment, that which nourishes, ornament, increment; fragment, piece broken, segment; abridgment, act of abridging, imprisonment, movement, adjournment; amazement, state of being amazed, astonishment. 

MENT:  of Menge. 

MENTAGRA:  Sycosis. 

MENTAL:  Of or pertaining to the chin; genian; as, the mental nerve; the mental region. 

MENTAL:  A plate or scale covering the mentum or chin of a fish or reptile. 

MENTAL:  Of or pertaining to the mind; intellectual; as, mental faculties; mental operations, conditions, or exercise. What a mental power This eye shoots forth! Shak. Mental alienation, insanity.  -- Mental arithmetic, the art or practice of solving arithmetical problems by mental processes, unassisted by written figures. 

MENTALITY:  Quality or state of mind. "The same hard mentality." Emerson. 

MENTALLY:  In the mind; in thought or meditation; intellectually; in idea. 

MENTHA:  A widely distributed genus of fragrant herbs, including the peppermint, spearmint, etc. The plants have small flowers, usually arranged in dense axillary clusters. 

MENTHENE:  A colorless liquid hydrocarbon resembling oil of turpentine, obtained by dehydrating menthol. It has an agreeable odor and a cooling taste. 

MENTHOL:  A white, crystalline, aromatic substance resembling camphor, extracted from oil of peppermint (Mentha); -- called also mint camphor or peppermint camphor. 

MENTHYL:  A compound radical forming the base of menthol. 

MENTICULTURAL:  Of or pertaining to mental culture; serving to improve or strengthen the mind. [R.] 

MENTION:  A speaking or notice of anything, -- usually in a brief or cursory manner. Used especially in the phrase to make mention of. I will make mention of thy righteousness. Ps. lxxi. 16. And sleep in dull, cold marble, where no mention Of me more must be heard of. Shak. 

MENTION:  To make mention of; to speak briefly of; to name. I will mention the loving-kindnesses of the Lord. Is. lxiii. 7. 

MENTIONABLE:  Fit to be mentioned. 

MENTOMECKELIAN:  Of or pertaining to the chin and lower jaw.  -- n.  The bone or cartilage forming the anterior extremity of the lower jaw in some adult animals and the young of others. 

MENTOR:  A wise and faithful counselor or monitor. 

MENTORIAL:  Containing advice or admonition. 

MENTUM:  The front median plate of the labium in insects. See Labium. 

MENU:  The details of a banquet; a bill of fare. 

MENUSE:  See Amenuse. [Obs.] 

MEOW:  See 6th and 7th Mew. 

MEPHISTOPHELIAN:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the devil Mephistopheles, "a crafty, scoffing, relentless fiend;" devilish; crafty.  MEPHITIC; MEPHITICAL Me*phit"ic, Me*phit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mephiticus, fr. mephitis mephitis: cf. F. méphitique.]  1. Tending to destroy life; poisonous; noxious; as, mephitic exhalations; mephitic regions.  2. Offensive to the smell; as, mephitic odors. Mephitic air (Chem.), carbon dioxide; -- so called because of its deadly suffocating power. See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic. 

MEPHITIS:  A genus of mammals, including the skunks. 

MEPHITISM:  Same as Mephitis, 1. 

MERACIOUS:  Being without mixture or adulteration; hence, strong; racy. [Obs.] 

MERCABLE:  Capable of being bought or sold. [Obs.] 

MERCANTILE:  Of or pertaining to merchants, or the business of merchants; having to do with trade, or the buying and selling of commodities; commercial. The expedition of the Argonauts was partly mercantile, partly military. Arbuthnot. Mercantile agency, an agency for procuring information of the standing and credit of merchants in different parts of the country, for the use of dealers who sell to them.  -- Mercantile marine, the persons and vessels employed in commerce, taken collectively.  -- Mercantile paper, the notes or acceptances given by merchants for goods bought, or received on consignment; drafts on merchants for goods sold or consigned. McElrath.  Syn.  -- Mercantile, Commercial. Commercial is the wider term, being sometimes used to embrace mercantile. In their stricter use, commercial relates to the shipping, freighting, forwarding, and other business connected with the commerce of a country (whether external or internal), that is, the exchange of commodities; while mercantile applies to the sale of merchandise and goods when brought to market. As the two employments are to some extent intermingled, the two words are often interchanged. 

MERCAPTAL:  Any one of a series of compounds of mercaptans with aldehydes. 

MERCAPTAN:  Any one of series of compounds, hydrosulphides of alcohol radicals, in composition resembling the alcohols, but containing sulphur in place of oxygen, and hence called also the sulphur alcohols. In general, they are colorless liquids having a strong, repulsive, garlic odor. The name is specifically applied to ethyl mercaptan, C2H5SH. So called from its avidity for mercury, and other metals. 

MERCAPTIDE:  A compound of mercaptan formed by replacing its sulphur hydrogen by a metal; as, potassium mercaptide, C2H5SK. 

MERCAT:  Market; trade. [Obs.] Bp. Sprat. 

MERCATANTE:  A foreign trader. [Obs.] Shak.  MERCATOR'S CHART Mer*ca"tor's chart".  See under Chart, and see Mercator's projection, under Projection. 

MERCATURE:  Commerce; traffic; trade. [Obs.] 

MERCE:  To subject to fine or amercement; to mulct; to amerce. [Obs.] 

MERCENARIA:  The quahog. 

MERCENARIAN:  A mercenary. [Obs.] 

MERCENARILY:  In a mercenary manner. 

MERCENARINESS:  The quality or state of being mercenary; venality. Boyle. 

MERCENARY:  One who is hired; a hireling; especially, a soldier hired into foreign service. Milman. 

MERCER:  Originally, a dealer in any kind of goods or wares; now restricted to a dealer in textile fabrics, as silks or woolens. [Eng.] 

MERCERIZE:  To treat (cotton fiber or fabrics) with a solution of caustic alkali. Such treatment causes the fiber to shrink in length and become stronger and more receptive of dyes. If the yarn or cloth is kept under tension during the process, it assumes a silky luster. -- Mer`cer*i*za"tion (#), n. 

MERCERSHIP:  The business of a mercer. 

MERCERY:  The trade of mercers; the goods in which a mercer deals. 

MERCHAND:  To traffic. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MERCHANDISABLE:  Such as can be used or transferred as merchandise. 

MERCHANDISE:  To trade; to carry on commerce. Bacon. 

MERCHANDISE:  To make merchandise of; to buy and sell. "Love is merchandised." Shak. 

MERCHANDISER:  A trader. Bunyan. 

MERCHANDRY:  Trade; commerce. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. 

MERCHANT:  Of, pertaining to, or employed in, trade or merchandise; as, the merchant service. Merchant bar, Merchant iron or steel, certain common sizes of wrought iron and steel bars.  -- Merchant service, the mercantile marine of a country. Am. Cyc.  -- Merchant ship, a ship employed in commerce.  -- Merchant tailor, a tailor who keeps and sells materials for the garments which he makes. 

MERCHANT:  To be a merchant; to trade. [Obs.] 

MERCHANTABLE:  Fit for market; such as is usually sold in market, or such as will bring the ordinary price; as, merchantable wheat; sometimes, a technical designation for a particular kind or class. 

MERCHANTLY:  Merchantlike; suitable to the character or business of a merchant. [Obs.] Gauden. 

MERCIABLE:  Merciful. [Obs.] 

MERCIFY:  To pity. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MERCILESS:  Destitute of mercy; cruel; unsparing; -- said of animate beings, and also, figuratively, of things; as, a merciless tyrant; merciless waves. The foe is merciless, and will not pity. Shak.  Syn.  -- Cruel; unmerciful; remorseless; ruthless; pitiless; barbarous; savage.  -- Mer"ci*less*ly, adv.  -- Mer"ci*less*ness, n. 

MERCURAMMONIUM:  A radical regarded as derived from ammonium by the substitution of mercury for a portion of the hydrogen. 

MERCURIAL:  Caused by the use of mercury; as, mercurial sore mouth. 

MERCURIAL:  A preparation containing mercury. 

MERCURIALISM:  The morbid condition produced by the excessive use of mercury, or by exposure to its fumes, as in mining or smelting. 

MERCURIALIST:  A physician who uses much mercury, in any of its forms, in his practice. 

MERCURIALIZE:  To affect with mercury.  2. (Photography)  To treat with mercury; to expose to the vapor of mercury. 

MERCURIALIZE:  To be sprightly, fantastic, or capricious. [Obs.] 

MERCURIALLY:  In a mercurial manner. 

MERCURIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containing mercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury into which this element enters in its lowest proportion. Mercuric chloride, corrosive sublimate. See Corrosive. 

MERCURIFICATION:  The process or operation of obtaining the mercury, in its fluid form, from mercuric minerals.  2. (Chem.)  The act or process of compounding, or the state of being compounded, with mercury. [R.] 

MERCURISM:  A communication of news; an announcement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

MERCUROUS:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containing mercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury in which it is present in its highest proportion. Mercurous chloride. (Chem.) See Calomel. 

MERCURY:  A Latin god of commerce and gain; -- treated by the poets as identical with the Greek Hermes, messenger of the gods, conductor of souls to the lower world, and god of eloquence.  2. (Chem.)  A metallic element mostly obtained by reduction from cinnabar, one of its ores. It is a heavy, opaque, glistening liquid (commonly called quicksilver), and is used in barometers, thermometers, ect. Specific gravity 13.6. Symbol Hg (Hydrargyrum). Atomic weight 199.8. Mercury has a molecule which consists of only one atom. It was named by the alchemists after the god Mercury, and designated by his symbol, mercury.  Note: Mercury forms alloys, called amalgams, with many metals, and is thus used in applying tin foil to the backs of mirrors, and in extracting gold and silver from their ores. It is poisonous, and is used in medicine in the free state as in blue pill, and in its compounds as calomel, corrosive sublimate, etc. It is the only metal which is liquid at ordinary temperatures, and it solidifies at about -39º Centigrade to a soft, malleable, ductile metal.  3. (Astron.)  One of the planets of the solar system, being the one nearest the sun, from which its mean distance is about 36,000,000 miles. Its period is 88 days, and its diameter 3,000 miles.  4. A carrier of tidings; a newsboy; a messenger; hence, also, a newspaper. Sir J. Stephen. "The monthly Mercuries." Macaulay.  5. Sprightly or mercurial quality; spirit; mutability; fickleness. [Obs.] He was so full of mercury that he could not fix long in any friendship, or to any design. Bp. Burnet.  6. (Bot.)  A plant (Mercurialis annua), of the Spurge family, the leaves of which are sometimes used for spinach, in Europe.  Note: The name is also applied, in the United States, to certain climbing plants, some of which are poisonous to the skin, esp. to the Rhus Toxicodendron, or poison ivy. Dog's mercury (Bot.), Mercurialis perennis, a perennial plant differing from M. annua by having the leaves sessile.  -- English mercury (Bot.), a kind of goosefoot formerly used as a pot herb; -- called Good King Henry.  -- Horn mercury (Min.), a mineral chloride of mercury, having a semitranslucent, hornlike appearance. 

MERCURY:  To wash with a preparation of mercury. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

MERD:  Ordure; dung. [Obs.] Burton.  -MERE -mere. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form meaning part, portion; as, blastomere, epimere. 

MERE:  A pool or lake. Drayton. Tennyson. 

MERE:  A boundary. Bacon. 

MERE:  To divide, limit, or bound. [Obs.] Which meared her rule with Africa. Spenser. 

MERE:  A mare. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MERENCHYMA:  Tissue composed of spheroidal cells. 

MERESMAN:  An officer who ascertains meres or boundaries. [Eng.] 

MERESTEAD:  The land within the boundaries of a farm; a farmstead or farm. [Archaic.] Longfellow. 

MERESTONE:  A stone designating a limit or boundary; a landmark. Bacon. 

MERGANSER:  Any bird of the genus Merganser, and allied genera. They are allied to the ducks, but have a sharply serrated bill.  Note: The red-breasted merganser (Merganser serrator) inhabits both hemispheres. It is called also sawbill, harle, and sheldrake. The American merganser (M. Americanus.) and the hooded merganser (Lophodytes cucullatus) are well-known species.  -- White merganser, the smew or white nun. 

MERGE:  To cause to be swallowed up; to immerse; to sink; to absorb. To merge all natural ... sentiment in inordinate vanity. Burke. Whig and Tory were merged and swallowed up in the transcendent duties of patriots. De Quincey. 

MERGE:  To be sunk, swallowed up, or lost. Native irresolution had merged in stronger motives. I. Taylor. 

MERGER:  An absorption of one estate, or one contract, in another, or of a minor offense in a greater. 

MERICARP:  One carpel of an umbelliferous fruit. See Cremocarp. 

MERIDE:  A permanent colony of cells or plastids which may remain isolated, like Rotifer, or may multiply by gemmation to form higher aggregates, termed zoides. Perrier. 

MERIDIAN:  A great circle of the sphere passing through the poles of the heavens and the zenith of a given place. It is crossed by the sun at midday.  4. (Geog.)  A great circle on the surface of the earth, passing through the poles and any given place; also, the half of such a circle included between the poles.  Note: The planes of the geographical and astronomical meridians coincide. Meridians, on a map or globe, are lines drawn at certain intervals due north and south, or in the direction of the poles. Calculated for, or fitted to, or adapted to, the meridian of, suited to the local circumstances, capabilities, or special requirements of. All other knowledge merely serves the concerns of this life, and is fitted to the meridian thereof. Sir M. Hale. -- First meridian, the meridian from which longitudes are reckoned. The meridian of Greenwich is the one commonly employed in calculations of longitude by geographers, and in actual practice, although in various countries other and different meridians, chiefly those which pass through the capitals of the countries, are occasionally used; as, in France, the meridian of Paris; in the United States, the meridian of Washington, etc.  -- Guide meridian (Public Land Survey), a line, marked by monuments, running North and South through a section of country between other more carefully established meridians called principal meridians, used for reference in surveying. [U.S.] -- Magnetic meridian, a great circle, passing through the zenith and coinciding in direction with the magnetic needle, or a line on the earth's surface having the same direction.  -- Meridian circle (Astron.), an instrument consisting of a telescope attached to a large graduated circle and so mounted that the telescope revolves like the transit instrument in a meridian plane. By it the right ascension and the declination of a star may be measured in a single observation.  -- Meridian instrument (Astron.), any astronomical instrument having a telescope that rotates in a meridian plane.  -- Meridian of a globe, or Brass meridian, a graduated circular ring of brass, in which the artificial globe is suspended and revolves. 

MERIDIONALLY:  In the direction of the meridian. 

MERILS:  A boy's play, called also fivepenny morris. See Morris. 

MERINGUE:  A delicate pastry made of powdered sugar and the whites of eggs whipped up, -- with jam or cream added. 

MERINO:  A breed of sheep originally from Spain, noted for the fineness of its wool.  2. A fine fabric of merino wool. 

MERISMATIC:  Dividing into cells or segments; characterized by separation into two or more parts or sections by the formation of internal partitions; as, merismatic growth, where one cell divides into many. 

MERISTEM:  A tissue of growing cells, or cells capable of further division. 

MERIT:  To acquire desert; to gain value; to receive benefit; to profit. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

MERITABLE:  Deserving of reward. [R.] 

MERITEDLY:  By merit; deservedly.  MERITHAL; MERITHALLUS Mer"i*thal, Mer`i*thal"lus, n. Etym: [NL. merithallus, fr. Gr. or (Bot.)  Same as Internode. 

MERITMONGER:  One who depends on merit for salvation. [Obs.] Milner. 

MERITORIOUS:  Possessing merit; deserving of reward or honor; worthy of recompense; valuable. And meritorious shall that hand be called, Canonized, and worshiped as a saint. Shak. -- Mer`i*to"ri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Mer`i*to"ri*ous*ness, n. 

MERITORY:  Meritorious. [Obs.] 

MERITOT:  A play of children, in swinging on ropes, or the like, till they are dizzy. 

MERK:  An old Scotch silver coin; a mark or marc. [Scot.] 

MERK:  A mark; a sign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MERKE:  Murky. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

MERKIN:  Originally, a wig; afterwards, a mop for cleaning cannon.  MERL; MERLE Merl, Merle, n. Etym: [F. merle, L. merula, merulus. Cf. Ousel.] (Zoöl.)  The European blackbird. See Blackbird. Drayton. 

MERLIN:  A small European falcon (Falco lithofalco, or F. æsalon). 

MERLING:  The European whiting. 

MERLON:  One of the solid parts of a battlemented parapet; a battlement. See Illust. of Battlement. 

MERLUCE:  The European hake; -- called also herring hake and sea pike. 

MERMAID:  A fabled marine creature, typically represented as having the upper part like that of a woman, and the lower like a fish; a sea nymph, sea woman, or woman fish.  Note: Chaucer uses this word as equivalent to the siren of the ancients. Mermaid fish (Zoöl.) the angel fish (Squatina).  -- Mermaid's glove (Zoöl.), a British branched sponge somewhat resembling a glove.  -- Mermaid's head (Zoöl.), a European spatangoid sea urchin (Echinocardium cordatum) having some resemblance to a skull.  -- Mermaid weed (Bot.), an aquatic herb with dentate or pectinate leaves (Proserpinaca palustris and P. pectinacea). 

MERMAN:  The male corresponding to mermaid; a sea man, or man fish.  MERO; MERO DE LOALTO; MERO CABROLLA Me"ro, n. [Sp.; cf. Pg. mero.]  Any of several large groupers of warm seas, esp. the guasa (Epinephelus guaza), the red grouper (E. morio), the black grouper (E. nigritas), distinguished as Me"ro de lo al"to, and a species called also rock hind, distinguished as Me"ro ca*brol"la. 

MEROBLAST:  An ovum, as that of a mammal, only partially composed of germinal matter, that is, consisting of both a germinal portion and an albuminous or nutritive one; -- opposed to holoblast. 

MEROBLASTIC:  Consisting only in part of germinal matter; characterized by partial segmentation only; as, meroblastic ova, in which a portion of the yolk only undergoes fission; meroblastic segmentation; -- opposed to holoblastic. 

MEROCELE:  Hernia in the thigh; femoral hernia . 

MEROISTIC:  Applied to the ovaries of insects when they secrete vitelligenous cells, as well as ova. 

MEROPIDAN:  One of a family of birds (Meropidæ), including the bee-eaters. 

MEROPODITE:  The fourth joint of a typical appendage of Crustacea. 

MERORGANIZATION:  Organization in part. [R.] 

MEROS:  The plain surface between the channels of a triglyph. [Written also merus.] Weale. 

MEROS:  The proximal segment of the hind limb; the thigh. 

MEROSOME:  One of the serial segments, or metameres, of which the bodies of vertebrate and articulate animals are composed. 

MEROSTOMATA:  A class of Arthropoda, allied to the Crustacea. It includes the trilobites, Eurypteroidea, and Limuloidea. All are extinct except the horseshoe crabs of the last group. See Limulus. 

MEROU:  See Jack, 8 (c). 

MEROVINGIAN:  Of or pertaining to the first Frankish dynasty in Gaul or France.  -- n.  One of the kings of this dynasty. 

MEROZOITE:  A form of spore, usually elongate or falciform, and somewhat amoboid, produced by segmentation of the schizonts of certain Sporozoa, as the malaria parasite. 

MERRILY:  In a merry manner; with mirth; with gayety and laughter; jovially. See Mirth, and Merry. Merrily sing, and sport, and play. Granville. 

MERRIMAKE:  See Merrymake, n. 

MERRIMAKE:  See Merrymake, v. Gay. 

MERRIMENT:  Gayety, with laughter; mirth; frolic. "Follies and light merriment." Spenser. Methought it was the sound Of riot and ill-managed merriment. Milton. 

MERRINESS:  The quality or state of being merry; merriment; mirth; gayety, with laughter. 

MERRY:  A kind of wild red cherry.  MERRY-ANDREW Mer"ry-an"drew, n.  One whose business is to make sport for others; a buffoon; a zany; especially, one who attends a mountebank or quack doctor.  Note: This term is said to have originated from one Andrew Borde, an English physician of the 16th century, who gained patients by facetious speeches to the multitude.  MERRY-GO-ROUND Mer"ry-go`-round", n.  Any revolving contrivance for affording amusement; esp., a ring of flying hobbyhorses. 

MERRYMAKE:  Mirth; frolic; a meeting for mirth; a festival. [Written also merrimake.] 

MERRYMAKE:  To make merry; to be jolly; to feast. [Written also merrimake.] 

MERRYMAKER:  One who makes merriment or indulges in conviviality; a jovial comrade. 

MERRYMAKING:  Making or producing mirth; convivial; jolly. 

MERRYMAKING:  The act of making merry; conviviality; merriment; jollity. Wordsworth. 

MERRYMEETING:  A meeting for mirth. 

MERRYTHOUGHT:  The forked bone of a fowl's breast; -- called also wishbone. See Furculum.  Note: It is a sportive custom for two persons to break this bone by pulling the ends apart to see who will get the longer piece, the securing of which is regarded as a lucky omen, signifying that the person holding it will obtain the gratification of some secret wish. 

MERSION:  Immersion [R.] Barrow. 

MERULIDAN:  A bird of the Thrush family. 

MERUS:  See Meros. 

MERVAILLE:  Marvel. [Obs.] Chaucer.  MES- Mes-.  See Meso-. 

MESA:  A high tableland; a plateau on a hill. [Southwestern U.S.] Bartlett. 

MESACONATE:  A salt of mesaconic acid. 

MESACONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, one of several isomeric acids obtained from citric acid. 

MESAD:  Same as Mesiad. 

MESAL:  Same as Mesial. 

MESALLIANCE:  A marriage with a person of inferior social position; a misalliance. 

MESALLY:  Same as Mesially.  MESAMEBOID; MESAMOEBOID Mes`a*me"boid, Mes`a*moe"boid, n. Etym: [Mes- + amoeboid.] (Biol.)  One of a class of independent, isolated cells found in the mesoderm, while the germ layers are undergoing differentiation. 

MESARAIC:  Mesenteric. 

MESATICEPHALIC:  Having the ratio of the length to the breadth of the cranium a medium one; neither brachycephalic nor dolichocephalic. 

MESATICEPHALOUS:  Mesaticephalic. 

MESCAL:  A distilled liquor prepared in Mexico from a species of agave. See Agave. 

MESDAMES:  pl. of Madame and Madam. 

MESEEMS:  It seems to me. [Poetic] 

MESEL:  A leper. [Obs.] 

MESELRY:  Leprosy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MESEMBRYANTHEMUM:  A genus of herbaceous or suffruticose plants, chiefly natives of South Africa. The leaves are opposite, thick, and f 

MESENCEPHALIC:  Of or pertaining to the mesencephalon or midbrain. 

MESENCEPHALON:  The middle segment of the brain; the midbrain. Sometimes abbreviated to mesen. See Brain. 

MESENCHYMA:  The part of the mesoblast which gives rise to the connective tissues and blood. 

MESENTERIC:  Pertaining to a mesentery; mesaraic. 

MESENTERON:  All that part of the alimentary canal which is developed from the primitive enteron and is lined with hypoblast. It is distinguished from the stomod, a part at the anterior end of the canal, including the cavity of the mouth, and the proctod, a part at the posterior end, which are formed by invagination and are lined with epiblast. 

MESENTERY:  The membranes, or one of the membranes (consisting of a fold of the peritoneum and inclosed tissues), which connect the intestines and their appendages with the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity. The mesentery proper is connected with the jejunum and ilium, the other mesenteries being called mesoc, mesocolon, mesorectum, etc.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the vertical muscular radiating partitions which divide the body cavity of Anthozoa into chambers. 

MESERAIC:  Mesaraic. 

MESETHMOID:  Of or pertaining to the middle of the ethmoid region or ethmoid bone.  -- n. (Anat.)  The median vertical plate, or median element, of the ethmoid bone. 

MESH:  The engagement of the teeth of wheels, or of a wheel and rack. Mesh stick, a stick on which the mesh is formed in netting. 

MESH:  To catch in a mesh. Surrey. 

MESH:  To engage with each other, as the teeth of wheels. 

MESHED:  Mashed; brewed. [Obs.] Shak. 

MESHY:  Formed with meshes; netted. 

MESIAD:  Toward, or on the side toward, the mesial plane; mesially; -- opposed to laterad. 

MESIAL:  Middle; median; in, or in the region of, the mesial plane; internal; -- opposed to lateral. Mesial plane. (Anat.) See Meson. 

MESIALLY:  In, near, or toward, the mesial plane; mesiad. 

MESITYL:  A hypothetical radical formerly supposed to exist in mesityl oxide. Mesityl oxide (Chem.), a volatile liquid having the odor of peppermint, obtained by certain dehydrating agents from acetone; -- formerly called also dumasin. 

MESITYLENATE:  A salt of mesitylenic acid. 

MESITYLENE:  A colorless, fragrant liquid, C6H3(CH3)3, of the benzene series of hydrocarbons, obtained by distilling acetone with sulphuric acid.  -- Me*sit`y*len"ic, a. 

MESITYLOL:  A crystalline substance obtained from mesitylene. 

MESLIN:  See Maslin. 

MESMEREE:  A person subjected to mesmeric influence; one who is mesmerized. [R.]  MESMERIC; MESMERICAL Mes*mer"ic, Mes*mer"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. mesmérique.]  Of, pertaining to, or induced by, mesmerism; as, mesmeric sleep. 

MESMERISM:  The art of inducing an extraordinary or abnormal state of the nervous system, in which the actor claims to control the actions, and communicate directly with the mind, of the recipient. See Animal magnetism, under Magnetism. 

MESMERIST:  One who practices, or believes in, mesmerism. 

MESMERIZATION:  The act of mesmerizing; the state of being mesmerized. 

MESMERIZE:  To bring into a state of mesmeric sleep. 

MESMERIZER:  One who mesmerizes. 

MESNE:  Middle; intervening; as, a mesne lord, that is, a lord who holds land of a superior, but grants a part of it to another person, in which case he is a tenant to the superior, but lord or superior to the second grantee, and hence is called the mesne lord. Mesne process, intermediate process; process intervening between the beginning and end of a suit, sometimes understood to be the whole process preceding the execution. Blackstone. Burrill.  -- Mesne profits, profits of premises during the time the owner has been wrongfully kept out of the possession of his estate. Burrill.  MESO-; MES- Mes"o-, Mes-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form denoting in the middle, intermediate; specif. (Chem.), denoting a type of hydrocarbons which are regarded as methenyl derivatives. Also used adjectively. 

MESOARIUM:  The fold of peritoneum which suspends the ovary from the dorsal wall of the body cavity. 

MESOBLASTIC:  Relating to the mesoblast; as, the mesoblastic layer. 

MESOBRANCHIAL:  Of or pertaining to a region of the carapace of a crab covering the middle branchial region. 

MESOBRONCHIUM:  The main bronchus of each lung. 

MESOCAECUM:  The fold of peritoneum attached to the cæcum.  -- Mes`o*cæ"cal, a. 

MESOCARP:  The middle layer of a pericarp which consists of three distinct or dissimilar layers. Gray. 

MESOCEPHALON:  The pons Varolii. 

MESOCEPHALOUS:  Mesocephalic.  MESOCOELE; MESOCOELIA Mes`o*coe"le, Mes`o*coe"li*a, n. Etym: [NL. mesocoelia. See Meso-, and Coelia.] (Anat.)  The cavity of the mesencephalon; the iter. 

MESOCOLON:  The fold of peritoneum, or mesentery, attached to the colon.  -- Mes`o*col"ic, a. 

MESOCORACOID:  A process from the middle of the coracoid in some animals.  MESOCUNEIFORM; MESOCUNIFORM Mes`o*cu*ne"i*form, Mes`o*cu"ni*form, n. Etym: [Meso- + cuneiform, cuniform.] (Anat.)  One of the bones of the tarsus. See 2d Cuneiform. 

MESODERMAL:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the mesoderm; as, mesodermal tissues. 

MESODERMIC:  Same as Mesodermal. 

MESODONT:  Having teeth of moderate size. 

MESOGASTER:  The fold of peritoneum connecting the stomach with the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity; the mesogastrium. 

MESOGASTRIC:  Of or pertaining to the middle gastric lobe of the carapace of a crab. 

MESOGASTRIUM:  A thin gelatinous tissue separating the ectoderm and endoderm in certain coelenterates.  -- Mes`o*gloeal, a. 

MESOGNATHOUS:  Having the jaws slightly projecting; between prognathous and orthognathous. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic. 

MESOHEPAR:  A fold of the peritoneum connecting the liver with the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity. 

MESOHIPPUS:  An extinct mammal of the Horse family, but not larger than a sheep, and having three toes on each foot. 

MESOLABE:  An instrument of the ancients for finding two mean proportionals between two given lines, required in solving the problem of the duplication of the cube. Brande & C. 

MESOLE:  Same as Thomsonite. 

MESOLITE:  A zeolitic mineral, grayish white or yellowish, occuring in delicate groups of crystals, also fibrous massive. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina, lime, and soda. 

MESOLOGARITHM:  A logarithm of the cosine or cotangent. [Obs.] Kepler. Hutton. 

MESOMETRIUM:  The fold of the peritoneum supporting the oviduct. 

MESOMYCETES:  One of the three classes into which the fungi are divided in Brefeld's classification. -- Mes`o*my*ce"tous (#), a. 

MESOMYODIAN:  A bird having a mesomyodous larynx. 

MESOMYODOUS:  Having the intrinsic muscles of the larynx attached to the middle of the semirings. 

MESON:  The mesial plane dividing the body of an animal into similar right and left halves. The line in which it meets the dorsal surface has been called the dorsimeson, and the corresponding ventral edge the ventrimeson. B. G. Wilder. 

MESONASAL:  Of or pertaining to the middle portion of the nasal region. 

MESONEPHRIC:  Of or pertaining to the mesonephros; as, the mesonephric, or Wolffian, duct. 

MESONEPHROS:  The middle one of the three pairs of embryonic renal organs developed in most vertebrates; the Wolffian body. 

MESONOTUM:  The dorsal portion of the mesothorax of insects. 

MESOPHLOEUM:  The middle bark of a tree; the green layer of bark, usually soon covered by the outer or corky layer, and obliterated. 

MESOPHRYON:  See Glabella. 

MESOPHYLLUM:  The parenchyma of a leaf between the skin of the two surfaces. Gray. 

MESOPLAST:  The nucleus of a cell; mesoblast. Agassix. 

MESOPODIAL:  Of or pertaining to the mesopodialia or to the parts of the limbs to which they belong. 

MESOPODIALE:  One of the bones of either the carpus or tarsus. 

MESOPODIUM:  The middle portion of the foot in the Gastropoda and Pteropoda. 

MESOPTERYGIUM:  The middle one of the three principal basal cartilages in the fins of fishes.  -- Me*sop`ter*yg"i*al, a. 

MESORCHIUM:  The fold of peritoneum which attaches the testis to the dorsal wall of the body cavity or scrotal sac. 

MESORECTUM:  The fold of peritoneum, or mesentery, attached to the rectum.  -- Mes`o*rec"tal, a. 

MESORHINE:  Having the nose of medium width; between leptorhine and platyrhine. 

MESOSAURIA:  Same as Mosasauria. 

MESOSCAPULA:  A process from the middle of the scapula in some animals; the spine of the scapula. 

MESOSCAPULAR:  Of or pertaining to the mesoscapula. 

MESOSCUTUM:  The scutum or dorsal plate of the middle thoracic segment of an insect. See Illust. of Butterfly. 

MESOSEME:  Having a medium orbital index; having orbits neither broad nor narrow; between megaseme and microseme. 

MESOSIDERITE:  See the Note under Meteorite. 

MESOSPERM:  A membrane of a seed. See Secundine. 

MESOSTATE:  A product of metabolic action.  Note: Every mesostate is either an anastate or katastate, according as it is formed by an anabolic or katabolic process. See Metabolism. 

MESOSTERNAL:  Of or pertaining to the mesosternum. 

MESOSTERNUM:  The middle portion, or body, of the sternum.  2. (Zoöl.)  The ventral piece of the middle segment of the thorax in insects. 

MESOTARTARIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid called also inactive tartaric acid. 

MESOTHECA:  The middle layer of the gonophore in the Hydrozoa. 

MESOTHELIUM:  Epithelial mesoderm; a layer of cuboidal epithelium cells, formed from a portion of the mesoderm during the differetiation of the germ layers. It constitutes the boundary of the coelum. 

MESOTHORACIC:  Of or pertaining to the mesothorax. 

MESOTHORAX:  The middle segment of the thorax in insects. See Illust. of Coleoptera. 

MESOTHORIUM:  A radioactive product intermediate between thorium and radiothorium, with a period of 5.5 years. 

MESOTROCHAL:  Having the middle of the body surrounded by bands of cilia; -- said of the larvæ of certain marine annelids. 

MESOTYPE:  An old term covering natrolite or soda mesolite, scolecite or lime mesotype, and mesolite or lime-soda mesotype. 

MESOVARIUM:  The fold of peritoneum connecting the ovary with the wall of the abdominal cavity. 

MESOXALATE:  A salt of mesoxalic acid. 

MESOXALIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, CH2O2(CO2H)2, obtained from amido malonic acid. 

MESOZOA:  A group of very lowly organized, wormlike parasites, including the Dicyemata. They are found in cephalopods. See Dicyemata. 

MESOZOIC:  Belonging, or relating, to the secondary or reptilian age, or the era between the Paleozoic and Cenozoic. See Chart of Geology. 

MESOZOIC:  The Mesozoic age or formation. 

MESPRISE:  Misadventure; ill-success. [Obs.] Spenser.  MESQUITE; MESQUIT Mes*qui"te, Mes*quit", n. Etym: [Sp. mezquite; said to be a Mexican Indian word.] (Bot.)  A name for two trees of the southwestern part of North America, the honey mesquite, and screw-pod mesquite. Honey mesquite. See Algaroba (b).  -- Screw-pod mesquite, a smaller tree (Prosopis pubescens), having spiral pods used as fodder and sometimes as food by the Indians.  -- Mesquite grass, a rich native grass in Western Texas (Bouteloua oligostachya, and other species); -- so called from its growing in company with the mesquite tree; -- called also muskit grass, grama grass.  MESQUITE BEAN Mes*qui"te bean.  The pod or seed of the mesquite. 

MESS:  Mass; church service. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MESS:  A disagreeable mixture or confusion of things; hence, a situation resulting from blundering or from misunderstanding; as, he made a mess of it. [Colloq.] 

MESS:  To take meals with a mess; to belong to a mess; to eat (with others); as, I mess with the wardroom officers. Marryat. 

MESS:  To supply with a mess. 

MESSAGE:  To bear as a message. [Obs.] 

MESSAGE:  A messenger. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MESSAGER:  A messenger. [Obs.]  MESSAGE STICK Mes"sage stick.  A stick, carved with lines and dots, used, esp. by Australian aborigines, to convey information.  MESS BEEF Mess beef.  Barreled salt beef, packed with about 80 pounds chuck and rump, two flanks, and the rest plates. 

MESSENGER:  A hawser passed round the capstan, and having its two ends lashed together to form an endless rope or chain; -- formerly used for heaving in the cable.  4. (Law)  A person appointed to perform certain ministerial duties under bankrupt and insolvent laws, such as to take charge og the estate of the bankrupt or insolvent. Bouvier. Tomlins.  Syn.  -- Carrier; intelligencer; courier; harbinger; forerunner; precursor; herald. Messenger bird, the secretary bird, from its swiftness. 

MESSET:  A dog. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

MESSIAD:  A German epic poem on the Messiah, by Klopstock. 

MESSIAH:  The expected king and deliverer of the Hebrews; the Savior; Christ. And told them the Messiah now was born. Milton. 

MESSIAHSHIP:  The state or office of the Messiah. 

MESSIANIC:  Of or relating to the Messiah; as, the Messianic office or character. 

MESSIAS:  The Messiah. I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ. John iv. 25. 

MESSIDOR:  The tenth month of the French republican calendar dating from September 22, 1792. It began June 19, and ended July 18. See VendÉmiaire. 

MESSIEURS:  Sirs; gentlemen; -- abbreviated to Messrs., which is used as the plural of Mr. 

MESSINESE:  Of or pertaining to Messina, or its inhabitans. 

MESSMATE:  An associate in a mess. 

MESSUAGE:  A dwelling house, with the adjacent buildings and curtilage, and the adjoining lands appropriated to the use of the household. Cowell. Bouvier. They wedded her to sixty thousand pounds, To lands in Kent, and messuages in York. Tennyson. 

MEST:  Most. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MESTEE:  The offspring of a white person and a quadroon; -- so called in the West Indies. [Written also mustee.] 

MESTER:  See Mister, a trade. 

MESTINO:  See Mestizo. 

MESTIZO:  The offspring of an Indian or a negro and a European or person of European stock. [Spanish America] Mestizo wool, wool imported from South America, and produced by mixed breeds of sheep. 

MESTLING:  A kind of brass. See Maslin. [Obs.] 

MESYMNICUM:  A repetition at the end of a stanza. 

MET:  of Meet. 

MET:  of Mete, to measure. Chapman. 

MET:  of Mete, to dream. Chaucer.  META-; MET- Met"a-, Met-. Etym: [Gr. mid with, G. mit, Goth. miÞ, E. mid, in midwife.]  1. A prefix meaning between, with, after, behind, over, about, reversely; as, metachronism, the error of placing after the correct time; metaphor, lit., a carrying over; metathesis, a placing reversely.  2. (Chem.) A prefix denoting: (a) Other; duplicate, corresponding to; resembling; hence, metameric; as, meta-arabinic, metaldehyde. (b) (Organic Chem.) That two replacing radicals, in the benzene nucleus, occupy the relative positions of 1 and 3, 2 and 4, 3 and 5, 4 and 6, 5 and 1, or 6 and 2; as, metacresol, etc. See Ortho-, and Para-. (c) (Inorganic Chem.) Having less than the highest number of hydroxyl groups; -- said of acids; as, metaphosphoric acid. Also used adjectively. at a level above, as metaphysics, metalanguage. 

METABASIS:  A transition from one subject to another.  2. (Med.)  Same as Metabola.  METABOLA; METABOLE Me*tab"o*la, Me*tab"o*le, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)  A change or mutation; a change of disease, symptoms, or treatment.  METABOLA; METABOLIA Me*tab"o*la, Met`a*bo"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See 1st Metabola.] (Zoöl.)  A comprehensive group of insects, including those that undegro a metamorphosis. 

METABOLIAN:  An insect which undergoes a metamorphosis. 

METABOLIC:  Of or pertaining to metamorphosis; pertaining to, or involving, change.  2. (Physiol.)  Of or pertaining to metabolism; as, metabolic activity; metabolic force. 

METABOLISIS:  Metabolism. [R.] 

METABOLISM:  The act or process, by which living tissues or cells take up and convert into their own proper substance the nutritive material brought to them by the blood, or by which they transform their cell protoplasm into simpler substances, which are fitted either for excretion or for some special purpose, as in the manufacture of the digestive ferments. Hence, metabolism may be either constructive (anabolism), or destructive (katabolism). 

METABOLITE:  A product of metabolism; a substance produced by metabolic action, as urea. 

METABOLIZE:  To change by a metabolic process. See Metabolism. 

METABRANCHIAL:  Of or pertaining to the lobe of the carapace of crabs covering the posterior branchiæ. 

METACARPAL:  Of or pertaining to the metacarpus.  -- n.  A metacarpal bone. 

METACARPUS:  That part of the skeleton of the hand or forefoot between the carpus and phalanges. In man it consists of five bones. See Illust. of Artiodactyla.  METACENTER; METACENTRE Met`a*cen"ter or; Metacentre, n. Etym: [Pref. meta- + center.] (Hydrostatics)  The point of intersection of a vertical line through the center of gravity of the fluid displaced by a floating body which is tipped through a small angle from its position of equilibrium, and the inclined line which was vertical through the center of gravity of the body when in equilibrium.  Note: When the metacenter is above the center of gravity, the position of the body is stable; when below it, unstable. 

METACETONE:  A colorless liquid of an agreeable odor, C6H10O, obtained by distilling a mixture of sugar and lime; -- so called because formerly regarded as a polymeric modification of acetone. 

METACHLORAL:  A white, amorphous, insoluble substance regarded as a polymeric variety of chloral. 

METACHRONISM:  An error committed in chronology by placing an event after its real time. 

METACHROSIS:  The power og changing color at will by the expansion of special pigment cells, under nerve influence, as seen in many reptiles, fishes, etc. Cope. 

METACINNABARITE:  Sulphide of mercury in isometric form and black in color. 

METACISM:  A defect in pronouncing the letter m, or a too frequent use of it. 

METACROLEIN:  A polymeric modification of acrolein obtained by heating it with caustic potash. It is a crystalline substance having an aromatic odor. 

METACROMION:  A process projecting backward and downward from the acromion of the scapula of some mammals. 

METADISCOIDAL:  Discoidal by derivation; -- applied especially to the placenta of man and apes, because it is supposed to have been derived from a diffused placenta. 

METAGASTRIC:  Of or pertaining to the two posterior gastric lobes of the carapace of crabs. 

METAGENESIS:  The change of form which one animal species undergoes in a series of successively produced individuals, extending from the one developed from the ovum to the final perfected individual. Hence, metagenesis involves the production of sexual individuals by nonsexual means, either directly or through intervening sexless generations. Opposed to monogenesis. See Alternate generation, under Generation.  2. (Biol.)  Alternation of sexual and asexual or gemmiparous generations; - - in distinction from heterogamy. 

METAGENETIC:  Of or pertaining to metagenesis. 

METAGENIC:  Metagenetic. 

METAGNATHOUS:  Cross-billed; -- said of certain birds, as the crossbill. 

METAGRAMMATISM:  Anagrammatism. 

METAGRAPHIC:  By or pertaining to metagraphy. 

METAGRAPHY:  The art or act of rendering the letters of the alphabet of one language into the possible equivalents of another; transliteration. Stormonth. 

METAL:  An elementary substance, as sodium, calcium, or copper, whose oxide or hydroxide has basic rather than acid properties, as contrasted with the nonmetals, or metalloids. No sharp line can be drawn between the metals and nonmetals, and certain elements partake of both acid and basic qualities, as chromium, manganese, bismuth, etc.  Note: Popularly, the name is applied to certain hard, fusible metals, as gold, silver, copper, iron, tin, lead, zinc, nickel, etc., and also to the mixed metals, or metallic alloys, as brass, bronze, steel, bell metal, etc.  2. Ore from which a metal is derived; -- so called by miners. Raymond.  3. A mine from which ores are taken. [Obs.] Slaves . . . and persons condemned to metals. Jer. Taylor.  4. The substance of which anything is made; material; hence, constitutional disposition; character; temper. Not till God make men of some other metal than earth. Shak.  5. Courage; spirit; mettle. See Mettle. Shak.  Note: The allusion is to the temper of the metal of a sword blade. Skeat.  6. The broken stone used in macadamizing roads and ballasting railroads.  7. The effective power or caliber of guns carried by a vessel of war.  8. Glass in a state of fusion. Knight.  9. pl.  The rails of a railroad. [Eng.] Base metal (Chem.), any one of the metals, as iron, lead, etc., which are readily tarnished or oxidized, in contrast with the noble metals. In general, a metal of small value, as compared with gold or silver.  -- Fusible metal (Metal.), a very fusible alloy, usually consisting of bismuth with lead, tin, or cadmium.  -- Heavy metals (Chem.), the metallic elements not included in the groups of the alkalies, alkaline earths, or the earths; specifically, the heavy metals, as gold, mercury, platinum, lead, silver, etc.  -- Light metals (Chem.), the metallic elements of the alkali and alkaline earth groups, as sodium, lithium, calcium, magnesium, etc.; also, sometimes, the metals of the earths, as aluminium.  -- Muntz metal, an alloy for sheathing and other purposes, consisting of about sixty per cent of copper, and forty of zinc. Sometimes a little lead is added. It is named from the inventor.  -- Prince's metal (Old Chem.), an alloy resembling brass, consisting of three parts of copper to one of zinc; -- also called Prince Rupert's metal. 

METAL:  To cover with metal; as, to metal a ship's bottom; to metal a road. 

METALAMMONIUM:  A hypothetical radical derived from ammonium by the substitution of metallic atoms in place of hydrogen. 

METALBUMIN:  A form of albumin found in ascitic and certain serous fluids. It is sometimes regarded as a mixture of albumin and mucin. 

METALDEHYDE:  A white crystalline substance isomeric with, and obtained from, acetic aldehyde by polymerization, and reconvertible into the same. 

METALEPSIS:  The continuation of a trope in one word through a succession of significations, or the union of two or more tropes of a different kind in one word. 

METALEPSY:  Exchange; replacement; substitution; metathesis. [R.] 

METALEPTIC:  Of, pertaining to, concerned in, or occurring by, metalepsy. 

METALEPTICAL:  Metaleptic.  -- Met`a*lep"tic*al*ly, adv. 

METALLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, the essential and implied properties of a metal, as contrasted with a nonmetal or metalloid; basic; antacid; positive. Metallic iron, iron in the state of the metal, as distinquished from its ores, as magnetic iron.  -- Metallic paper, paper covered with a thin solution of lime, whiting, and size. When written upon with a pewter or brass pencil, the lines can hardly be effaced.  -- Metallic tinking (Med.), a sound heard in the chest, when a cavity communicating with the air passages contains both air and liquid. 

METALLICAL:  See Metallic. [Obs.] 

METALLICLY:  In a metallic manner; by metallic means. 

METALLIFACTURE:  The production and working or manufacture of metals. [R.] R. Park. 

METALLIFEROUS:  Producing metals; yielding metals. 

METALLIFORM:  Having the form or structure of a metal. 

METALLINE:  A substance of variable composition, but resembling a soft, dark-colored metal, used in the bearings of machines for obviating friction, and as a substitute for lubricants. 

METALLIST:  A worker in metals, or one skilled in metals. 

METALLIZATION:  The act or process of metallizing. [R.] 

METALLIZE:  To impart metallic properties to; to impregnate with a metal. [R.] 

METALLOCHROME:  A coloring produced by the deposition of some metallic compound; specifically, the prismatic tints produced by depositing a film of peroxide of lead on polished steel by electricity. 

METALLOCHROMY:  The art or process of coloring metals. 

METALLOGRAPH:  A print made by metallography. 

METALLOGRAPHIC:  Pertaining to, or by means of, metallography. 

METALLOGRAPHIST:  One who writes on the subject of metals. 

METALLOID:  Having the properties of a nonmetal; nonmetallic; acid; negative. 

METALLOIDAL:  Metalloid. 

METALLORGANIC:  Metalorganic. 

METALLOTHERAPY:  Treatment of disease by applying metallic plates to the surface of the body.  METALLURGIC; METALLURGICAL Met`al*lur"gic, Met`al*lur"gic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. métallurgique.]  Of or pertaining to metallurgy. 

METALLURGIST:  One who works in metals, or prepares them for use; one who is skilled in metallurgy. 

METALLURGY:  The art of working metals, comprehending the whole process of separating them from other matters in the ore, smelting, refining, and parting them; sometimes, in a narrower sense, only the process of extracting metals from their ores. 

METALMAN:  A worker in metals. 

METALOGICAL:  Beyond the scope or province of logic. 

METALORGANIC:  Pertaining to, or denoting, any one of a series of compounds of certain metallic elements with organic radicals; as, zinc methyl, sodium ethyl, etc. [Written also metallorganic.] 

METAMER:  Any one of several metameric forms of the same substance, or of different substances having the same composition; as, xylene has three metamers, viz., orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene. 

METAMERE:  One of successive or homodynamous parts in animals and plants; one of a series of similar parts that follow one another in a vertebrate or articulate animal, as in an earthworm; a segment; a somite. See Illust. of Loeven's larva. 

METAMERIC:  Having the same elements united in the same proportion by weight, and with the same molecular weight, but possessing a different structure and different properties; as, methyl ether and ethyl alcohol are metameric compounds. See Isomeric.  Note: The existence of metameric compounds is due to the different arrangement of the same constituents in the molecule.  2. (Biol.)  Of or pertaining to a metamere or its formation; as, metameric segmentation. 

METAMERICALLY:  In a metameric manner. 

METAMERISM:  The symmetry of a metameric structure; serial symmetry; the state of being made up of metameres.  2. (Chem.)  The state or quality of being metameric; also, the relation or condition of metameric compounds. 

METAMORPHIC:  Pertaining to, produced by, or exhibiting, certain changes which minerals or rocks may have undergone since their original deposition; -- especially applied to the recrystallization which sedimentary rocks have undergone through the influence of heat and pressure, after which they are called metamorphic rocks. 

METAMORPHISM:  The state or quality of being metamorphic; the process by which the material of rock masses has been more or less recrystallized by heat, pressure, etc., as in the change of sedimentary limestone to marble. Murchison. 

METAMORPHIST:  One who believes that the body of Christ was merged into the Deity when he ascended. 

METAMORPHIZE:  To metamorphose. 

METAMORPHOSE:  To change into a different form; to transform; to transmute. And earth was metamorphosed into man. Dryden. 

METAMORPHOSE:  Same as Metamorphosis. 

METAMORPHOSER:  One who metamorphoses. [R.] Gascoigne. 

METAMORPHOSIC:  Changing the form; transforming. [R.] Pownall. 

METAMORPHOSIS:  A change in the form or function of a living organism, by a natural process of growth or development; as, the metamorphosis of the yolk into the embryo, of a tadpole into a frog, or of a bud into a blossom. Especially, that form of sexual reproduction in which an embryo undergoes a series of marked changes of external form, as the chrysalis stage, pupa stage, etc., in insects. In these intermediate stages sexual reproduction is usually impossible, but they ultimately pass into final and sexually developed forms, from the union of which organisms are produced which pass through the same cycle of changes. See Transformation.  3. (Physiol.)  The change of material of one kind into another through the agency of the living organism; metabolism. Vegetable metamorphosis (Bot.), the doctrine that flowers are homologous with leaf buds, and that the floral organs are transformed leaves. 

METANAUPLIUS:  A larval crustacean in a stage following the nauplius, and having about seven pairs of appendages. 

METANEPHRITIC:  Of or pertaining to the metanephros. 

METANEPHROS:  The most posterior of the three pairs of embryonic renal organs developed in many vertebrates. 

METANOTUM:  The dorsal portion of the metaphorax of insects. 

METANTIMONATE:  A salt of metantimonic acid. 

METAPECTIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a supposed acid obtained from pectin. 

METAPECTIN:  A substance obtained from, and resembling, pectin, and occurring in overripe fruits. 

METAPEPTONE:  An intermediate product formed in the gastric digestion of albuminous matter. 

METAPHOR:  The transference of the relation between one set of objects to another set for the purpose of brief explanation; a compressed simile; e. g., the ship plows the sea. Abbott & Seeley. "All the world's a stage." Shak.  Note: The statement, "that man is a fox," is a metaphor; but "that man is like a fox," is a simile, similitude, or comparison.  METAPHORIC; METAPHORICAL Met`a*phor"ic, Met`a*phor"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. métaphorique.]  Of or pertaining to metaphor; comprising a metaphor; not literal; figurative; tropical; as, a metaphorical expression; a metaphorical sense.  -- Met`a*phor"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Met`a*phor"ic*al*ness, n. 

METAPHORIST:  One who makes metaphors. 

METAPHOSPHATE:  A salt of metaphosphoric acid. 

METAPHOSPHORIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a monobasic acid, HPO3, analogous to nitric acid, and, by heating phosphoric acid, obtained as a crystalline substance, commonly called glacial phosphoric acid. 

METAPHRASED:  Translated literally. 

METAPHRASIS:  Metaphrase. 

METAPHRAST:  A literal translator.  METAPHRASTIC; METAPHRASTICAL Met`a*phras"tic, Met`a*phras"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Close, or literal. 

METAPHYSIC:  See Metaphysics. 

METAPHYSIC:  Metaphysical. 

METAPHYSICALLY:  In the manner of metaphysical science, or of a metaphysician. South. 

METAPHYSICIAN:  One who is versed in metaphysics. 

METAPHYSIS:  Change of form; transformation. 

METAPLASM:  A change in the letters or syllables of a word. 

METAPLAST:  A word having more than one form of the root. 

METAPODE:  The posterior division of the foot in the Gastropoda and Pteropoda. 

METAPODIAL:  Of or pertaining to the metapodialia, or to the parts of the limbs to which they belong. 

METAPODIALE:  One of the bones of either the metacarpus or metatarsus. 

METAPODIUM:  Same as Metapode. 

METAPOPHYSIS:  A tubercle projecting from the anterior articular processes of some vertebræ; a mammillary process. 

METAPTERYGIUM:  The posterior of the three principal basal cartilages in the fins of fishes.  -- Me*tap`ter*yg"i*al, a. 

METASILICATE:  A salt of metasilicic acid. 

METASILICIC:  Designating an acid derived from silicic acid by the removal of water; of or pertaining to such an acid.  Note: The salts of metasilicic acid are often called bisilicates, in mineralogy, as Wollastonite (CaSiO3). Metasilicic acid (Chem.), a gelatinous substance, or white amorphous powder, analogous to carbonic acid, and forming many stable salts. 

METASOMATISM:  An alteration in a mineral or rock mass when involving a chemical change of the substance, as of chrysolite to serpentine; -- opposed to ordinary metamorphism, as implying simply a recrystallization.  -- Met`a*so*mat"ic, a. 

METASOME:  One of the component segments of the body of an animal. 

METASTANNATE:  A salt of metastannic acid. 

METASTANNIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a compound of tin (metastannic acid), obtained, as an isomeric modification of stannic acid, in the form of a white amorphous substance. 

METASTASIS:  A spiritual change, as during baptism.  2. (Med.)  A change in the location of a disease, as from one part to another. Dunglison.  3. (Physiol.)  The act or process by which matter is taken up by cells or tissues and is transformed into other matter; in plants, the act or process by which are produced all of those chemical changes in the constituents of the plant which are not accompanied by a production of organic matter; metabolism. 

METASTATIC:  Of, pertaining to, or caused by, metastasis; as, a metastatic abscess; the metastatic processes of growth. 

METASTERNAL:  Of or pertaining to the metasternum. 

METASTERNUM:  The most posterior element of the sternum; the ensiform process; xiphisternum.  2. (Zoöl.)  The ventral plate of the third or last segment of the thorax of insects.  METASTOMA; METASTOME Me*tas"to*ma, Met"a*stome, n. Etym: [NL. metastoma, from Gr. meta` behind + sto`ma mouth.] (Zoöl.)  A median elevation behind the mouth in the arthropods. 

METATARSAL:  Of or pertaining to the metatarsus.  -- n.  A metatarsal bone. 

METATARSE:  Metatarsus. 

METATARSUS:  That part of the skeleton of the hind or lower limb between the tarsus and phalanges; metatarse. It consists, in the human foot, of five bones. See Illustration in Appendix. 

METATE:  A flat or somewhat hollowed stone upon which grain or other food is ground, by means of a smaller stone or pestle. [Southwestern U. S. & Sp. Amer.] 

METATHESIS:  Transposition, as of the letters or syllables of a word; as, pistris for pristis; meagre for meager.  2. (Med.)  A mere change in place of a morbid substance, without removal from the body.  3. (Chem.)  The act, process, or result of exchange, substitution, or replacement of atoms and radicals; thus, by metathesis an acid gives up all or part of its hydrogen, takes on an equivalent amount of a metal or base, and forms a salt.  METATHETIC; METATHETICAL Met`a*thet"ic, Met`a*thet"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to metathesis. 

METATHORACIC:  Of or pertaining to the metathorax. 

METATHORAX:  The last or posterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Illust. of Coleoptera. 

METATITANIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of titanium analogous to metasilicic acid. 

METATUNGSTATE:  A salt of metatungstic acid. 

METATUNGSTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid known only in its salts (the metatungstates) and properly called polytungstic, or pyrotungstic, acid. 

METAVANADATE:  A salt of metavanadic acid. 

METAVANADIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a vanadic acid analogous to metaphosphoric acid. 

METAXYLENE:  That variety of xylene, or dimethyl benzene, in which the two methyl groups occupy the meta position with reference to each other. It is a colorless inf 

METAYAGE:  A system of farming on halves. [France & Italy] 

METAYER:  One who cultivates land for a share (usually one half) of its yield, receiving stock, tools, and seed from the landlord. [France & Italy] Milman. 

METAZOA:  Those animals in which the protoplasmic mass, constituting the egg, is converted into a multitude of cells, which are metamorphosed into the tissues of the body. A central cavity is commonly developed, and the cells around it are at first arranged in two layers, -- the ectoderm and endoderm. The group comprises nearly all animals except the Protozoa. 

METAZOAN:  One of the Metazoa. 

METAZOIC:  Of or pertaining to the Metazoa.  METAZOON; METAZOOEN Met`a*zo"ön, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)  One of the Metazoa. 

METE:  Meat. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

METE:  To meet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

METE:  To dream; also impersonally; as, me mette, I dreamed. [Obs.] "I mette of him all night." Chaucer. 

METE:  To find the quantity, dimensions, or capacity of, by any rule or standard; to measure. 

METE:  To measure. [Obs.] Mark iv. 24. 

METE:  Measure; limit; boundary; -- used chiefly in the plural, and in the phrase metes and bounds. 

METECORN:  A quantity of corn formerly given by the lord to his customary tenants, as an encouragement to, or reward for, labor and faithful service. 

METELY:  According to measure or proportion; proportionable; proportionate. [Obs.]  METEMPIRIC; METEMPIRICAL Met`em*pir"ic, Met`em*pir"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. met- + empiric, - ical.] (Metaph.)  Related, or belonging, to the objects of knowledge within the province of metempirics. If then the empirical designates the province we include within the range of science, the province we exclude may be fitly styled the metempirical. G. H. Lewes. 

METEMPIRICISM:  The science that is concerned with metempirics. 

METEMPIRICS:  The concepts and relations which are conceived as beyond, and yet as related to, the knowledge gained by experience. 

METEMPSYCHOSE:  To translate or transfer, as the soul, from one body to another. [R.] Peacham. 

METEMPSYCHOSIS:  The passage of the soul, as an immortal essence, at the death of the animal body it had inhabited, into another living body, whether of a brute or a human being; transmigration of souls. Sir T. Browne. 

METEMPTOSIS:  The suppression of a day in the calendar to prevent the date of the new moon being set a day too late, or the suppression of the bissextile day once in 134 years. The opposite to this is the proemptosis, or the addition of a day every 330 years, and another every 2,400 years. 

METENCEPHALON:  The posterior part of the brain, including the medulla; the afterbrain. Sometimes abbreviated to meten. 

METENSOMATOSIS:  The assimilation by one body or organism of the elements of another. 

METEORICAL:  Meteoric. 

METEORISM:  Flatulent distention of the abdomen; tympanites. 

METEORITE:  A mass of stone or iron which has fallen to the earth from space; an aërolite.  Note: Meteorites usually show a pitted surface with a fused crust, caused by the heat developed in their rapid passage through the earth's atmosphere. A meteorite may consist: 1. Of metallic iron, alloyed with a small percentage of nickel (meteoric iron, holosiderite). When etched this usually exhibits peculiar crystalline figures, called Widmanstätten figures. 2. Of a cellular mass of iron with imbedded silicates (mesosiderite or siderolite). 3. Of a stony mass of silicates with little iron (meteoric stone, sporadosiderite). 4. Of a mass without iron (asiderite). 

METEORIZE:  To ascend in vapors; to take the form of a meteor. Evelyn. 

METEOROGRAPH:  An instrument which registers meteorologic phases or conditions. 

METEOROGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to meteorography. 

METEOROGRAPHY:  The registration of meteorological phenomena. 

METEOROID:  A small body moving through space, or revolving about the sun, which on entering the earth's atmosphere would be deflagrated and appear as a meteor. These bodies [small, solid bodies] before they come into the air, I call meteoroids. H. A. Newton. 

METEOROIDAL:  Of or pertaining to a meteoroid or to meteoroids. 

METEOROLITE:  A meteoric stone; an aërolite; a meteorite.  METEOROLOGIC; METEOROLOGICAL Me`te*or`o*log"ic, Me`te*or`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. météorologique.]  Of or pertaining to the atmosphere and its phenomena, or to meteorology. Meteorological table, Meteorological register, a table or register exhibiting the state of the air and its temperature, weight, dryness, moisture, motion, etc. 

METEOROLOGIST:  A person skilled in meteorology. 

METEOROLOGY:  The science which treats of the atmosphere and its phenomena, particularly of its variations of heat and moisture, of its winds, storms, etc. 

METEOROMANCY:  A species of divination by meteors, chiefly by thunder and lightning, which was held in high estimation by the Romans. 

METEOROMETER:  An apparatus which transmits automatically to a central station atmospheric changes as marked by the anemometer, barometer, thermometer, etc. 

METEOROUS:  Of the nature or appearance of a meteor.  -METER -me"ter. Etym: [L. metrum measure, or the allied Gr. Meter rhythm.]  A suffix denoting that by which anything is measured; as, barometer, chronometer, dynamometer. 

METER:  A line above or below a hanging net, to which the net is attached in order to strengthen it.  METER; METRE Me"ter, Me"tre, n. Etym: [OE. metre, F. mètre, L. metrum, fr. Gr. ma to measure. See Mete to measure.]  1. Rhythmical arrangement of syllables or words into verses, stanzas, strophes, etc.; poetical measure, depending on number, quantity, and accent of syllables; rhythm; measure; verse; also, any specific rhythmical arrangements; as, the Horatian meters; a dactylic meter. The only strict antithesis to prose is meter. Wordsworth.  2. A poem. [Obs.] Robynson (More's Utopia).  3. A measure of length, equal to 39.37 English inches, the standard of linear measure in the metric system of weights and measures. It was intended to be, and is very nearly, the ten millionth part of the distance from the equator to the north pole, as ascertained by actual measurement of an arc of a meridian. See Metric system, under Metric. Common meter (Hymnol.), four iambic verses, or lines, making a stanza, the first and third having each four feet, and the second and fourth each three feet; -- usually indicated by the initials C.M.  -- Long meter (Hymnol.), iambic verses or lines of four feet each, four verses usually making a stanza; -- commonly indicated by the initials L.M.  -- Short meter (Hymnol.), iambic verses or lines, the first, second, and fourth having each three feet, and the third four feet. The stanza usually consists of four lines, but is sometimes doubled. Short meter is indicated by the initials S.M. 

METERAGE:  The act of measuring, or the cost of measuring. 

METERGRAM:  A measure of energy or work done; the power exerted in raising one gram through the distance of one meter against gravitation. 

METEWAND:  A measuring rod. Ascham. 

METEYARD:  A yard, staff, or rod, used as a measure. [Obs.] Shak. 

METH:  See Meathe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

METHAEMOGLOBIN:  A stable crystalline compound obtained by the decomposition of hemoglobin. It is found in old blood stains. 

METHAL:  A white waxy substance, found in small quantities in spermaceti as an ethereal salt of several fatty acids, and regarded as an alcohol of the methane series. 

METHANE:  A light, colorless, gaseous, inflammable hydrocarbon, CH4; marsh gas. See Marsh gas, under Gas. Methane series (Chem.), a series of saturated hydrocarbons, of which methane is the first member and type, and (because of their general chemical inertness and indifference) called also the paraffin (little affinity) series. The lightest members are gases, as methane, ethane; intermediate members are liquids, as hexane, heptane, etc. (found in benzine, kerosene, etc.); while the highest members are white, waxy, or fatty solids, as paraffin proper. 

METHANOMETER:  An instrument, resembling a eudiometer, to detect the presence and amount of methane, as in coal mines. 

METHEGLIN:  A fermented beverage made of honey and water; mead. Gay. 

METHENE:  See Methylene. 

METHENYL:  The hypothetical hydrocarbon radical CH, regarded as an essential residue of certain organic compounds. 

METHIDE:  A binary compound of methyl with some element; as, aluminium methide, Al2(CH3)6. 

METHINKS:  It seems to me; I think. See Me. [R., except in poetry.] In all ages poets have been had in special reputation, and, methinks, not without great cause. Spenser. 

METHIONATE:  A salt of methionic acid. 

METHIONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphonic (thionic) acid derivative of methane, obtained as a stable white crystalline substance, CH2.(SO3H)2, which forms well defined salts. 

METHOD:  Classification; a mode or system of classifying natural objects according to certain common characteristics; as, the method of Theophrastus; the method of Ray; the Linnæan method.  Syn.  -- Order; system; rule; regularity; way; manner; mode; course; process; means.  -- Method, Mode, Manner. Method implies arrangement; mode, mere action or existence. Method is a way of reaching a given end by a series of acts which tend to secmode relates to a single action, or to the form which a series of acts, viewed as a whole, exhibits. Manner is literally the handling of a thing, and has a wider sense, embracing both method and mode. An instructor may adopt a good method of teaching to write; the scholar may acquire a bad mode of holding his pen; the manner in which he is corrected will greatly affect his success or failure.  METHODIC; METHODICAL Me*thod"ic, Me*thod"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. methodicus, Gr. méthodique.]  1. Arranged with regard to method; disposed in a suitable manner, or in a manner to illustrate a subject, or to facilitate practical observation; as, the methodical arrangement of arguments; a methodical treatise. "Methodical regularity." Addison.  2. Proceeding with regard to method; systematic. "Aristotle, strict, methodic, and orderly." Harris.  3. Of or pertaining to the ancient school of physicians called methodists. Johnson.  -- Me*thod"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Me*thod"ic*al*ness, n. 

METHODIOS:  The art and principles of method. 

METHODISM:  The system of doctrines, polity, and worship, of the sect called Methodists. Bp. Warburton. 

METHODIST:  One of a sect of Christians, the outgrowth of a small association called the "Holy Club," formed at Oxford University, A.D. 1729, of which the most conspicuous members were John Wesley and his brother Charles; -- originally so called from the methodical strictness of members of the club in all religious duties.  4. A person of strict piety; one who lives in the exact observance of religious duties; -- sometimes so called in contempt or ridicule. 

METHODIST:  Of or pertaining to the sect of Methodists; as, Methodist hymns; a Methodist elder.  METHODISTIC; METHODISTICAL Meth`o*dis"tic, Meth`o*dis"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to methodists, or to the Methodists.  -- Meth`o*dis"tic*al*ly, adv. 

METHODIZATION:  The act or process of methodizing, or the state of being methodized. 

METHODIZE:  To reduce to method; to dispose in due order; to arrange in a convenient manner; as, to methodize one's work or thoughts. Spectator. 

METHODIZER:  One who methodizes. 

METHODOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to methodology. 

METHODOLOGY:  The science of method or arrangement; a treatise on method. Coleridge. 

METHOL:  The technical name of methyl alcohol or wood spirit; also, by extension, the class name of any of the series of alcohols of the methane series of which methol proper is the type. See Methyl alcohol, under Methyl. 

METHOUGHT:  of Methinks. 

METHOXYL:  A hypothetical radical, CH3O, analogous to hydroxyl. 

METHYL:  A hydrocarbon radical, CH3, not existing alone but regarded as an essential residue of methane, and appearing as a component part of many derivatives; as, methyl alcohol, methyl ether, methyl amine, etc. [Formerly written also methule, methyle, etc.] Methyl alcohol (Chem.), a light, volatile, inflammable liquid, CH3.OH, obtained by the distillation of wood, and hence called wood spirit; -- called also methol, carbinol, etc.  -- Methyl amine (Chem.), a colorless, inflammable, alkaline gas, CH3.NH2, having an ammoniacal, fishy odor. It is produced artificially, and also occurs naturally in herring brine and other fishy products. It is regarded as ammonia in which a third of its hydrogen is replaced by methyl, and is a type of the class of substituted ammonias.  -- Methyl ether (Chem.), a light, volatile ether CH3.O.CH3, obtained by the etherification of methyl alcohol; -- called also methyl oxide.  -- Methyl green. (Chem.) See under Green, n.  -- Methyl orange. (Chem.) See Helianthin.  -- Methyl violet (Chem.), an artificial dye, consisting of certain methyl halogen derivatives of rosaniline. 

METHYLAL:  A light, volatile liquid, H2C(OCH3)2, regarded as a complex ether, and having a pleasant ethereal odor. It is obtained by the partial oxidation of methyl alcohol. Called also formal. 

METHYLAMINE:  See Methyl amine, under Methyl. 

METHYLATE:  An alcoholate of methyl alcohol in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is replaced by a metal, after the analogy of a hydrate; as, sodium methylate, CH3ONa. 

METHYLATE:  To impregnate or mix with methyl or methyl alcohol. 

METHYLATED:  Impregnated with, or containing, methyl alcohol or wood spirit; as, methylated spirits. 

METHYLENE:  A hydrocarbon radical, CH2, not known in the free state, but regarded as an essential residue and component of certain derivatives of methane; as, methylene bromide, CH2Br2; -- formerly called also methene. Methylene blue (Chem.), an artificial dyestuff consisting of a complex sulphur derivative of diphenyl amine; -- called also pure blue. 

METHYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, methyl; specifically, designating methyl alcohol. See under Methyl. 

METHYSTICIN:  A white, silky, crystalline substance extracted from the thick rootstock of a species of pepper (Piper methysticum) of the South Sea Islands; -- called also kanakin. 

METIC:  A sojourner; an immigrant; an alien resident in a Grecian city, but not a citizen. Mitford. The whole force of Athens, metics as well as citizens, and all the strangers who were then in the city. Jowett (Thucyd. ). 

METICULOUS:  Timid; fearful.  -- Me*tic"u*lous*ly, adv. 

METIER:  Calling; vocation; business; trade.  Not only is it the business of no one to preach the truth but it is the métier of many to conceal it. A. R. Colquhoun.  METIF; METIVE Mé`tif", n. m. Mé`tive", n. f.Etym: [F.]  See Métis.  METIS; METISSE Mé`tis", n. m. Mé`tisse", n. f.Etym: [F.; akin to Sp. mestizo. See Mestizo.]  1. The offspring of a white person and an American Indian.  2. The offspring of a white person and a quadroon; an octoroon. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 

METOL:  A whitish soluble powder used as a developer in photography. Chemically, it is the sulphate of methyl-p-amino-m-cresol. 

METONIC:  Pertaining to, or discovered by, Meton, the Athenian. Metonic cycle or year. (Astron.) See under Cycle.  METONYMIC; METONYMICAL Met`o*nym"ic, Met`o*nym"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Metonymy.]  Used by way of metonymy.  -- Met`o*nym"ic*al*ly, adv. 

METONYMY:  A trope in which one word is put for another that suggests it; as, we say, a man keeps a good table instead of good provisions; we read Virgil, that is, his poems; a man has a warm heart, that is, warm affections. 

METOPE:  The space between two triglyphs of the Doric frieze, which, among the ancients, was often adorned with carved work. See Illust. of Entablature.  2. (Zoöl.)  The face of a crab.  Note: In the Parthenon, groups of centaurs and heroes in high relief occupy the metopes. 

METOPIC:  Of or pertaining to the forehead or frontal bones; frontal; as, the metopic suture. 

METOPOMANCY:  Fortune telling by physiognomy. [R.] Urquhart.  METOPOSCOPIC; METOPOSCOPICAL Met`o*po*scop"ic, Met`o*po*scop"ic*al, a.  Of or relating to metoposcopy. 

METOPOSCOPIST:  One versed in metoposcopy. 

METOPOSCOPY:  The study of physiognomy; the art of discovering the character of persons by their features, or the lines of the face. 

METOSTEON:  The postero-lateral ossification in the sternum of birds; also, the part resulting from such ossification. 

METRE:  See Meter. 

METRICALLY:  In a metrical manner. 

METRICIAN:  A composer of verses. [Obs.]  METRIC SYSTEM Met"ric sys"tem.  See Metric, a.  METRIC TON Met"ric ton.  A weight of 1,000 kilograms, or 2,204.6 pounds avoirdupois. 

METRIFICATION:  Composition in metrical form; versification. [R.] Tennyson. 

METRIFY:  To make verse. [R.] Skelton. 

METRIST:  A maker of verses. Bale. Spenser was no mere metrist, but a great composer. Lowell. 

METRITIS:  Inflammation of the womb. 

METROCHROME:  An instrument for measuring colors. 

METROGRAPH:  An instrument attached to a locomotive for recording its speed and the number and duration of its stops. 

METROLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to metrology. 

METROLOGY:  The science of, or a system of, weights and measures; also, a treatise on the subject. 

METROMANIA:  A mania for writing verses. 

METROMANIAC:  One who has metromania. 

METROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the size of the womb. Knight. 

METRONOME:  An instrument consisting of a short pendulum with a sliding weight. It is set in motion by clockwork, and serves to measure time in music. 

METRONOMY:  Measurement of time by an instrument. 

METRONYMIC:  Derived from the name of one's mother, or other female ancestor; as, a metronymic name or appellation.  -- A metronymic appellation. 

METROPOLE:  A metropolis. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

METROPOLIS:  The seat, or see, of the metropolitan, or highest church dignitary. The great metropolis and see of Rome. Shak. 

METROPOLITAN:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a metropolitan or the presiding bishop of a country or province, his office, or his dignity; as, metropolitan authority. "Bishops metropolitan." Sir T. More. 

METROPOLITAN:  An archbishop.  3. (Gr. Church)  A bishop whose see is civil metropolis. His rank is intermediate between that of an archbishop and a patriarch. Hook. 

METROPOLITANATE:  The see of a metropolitan bishop. Milman. 

METROPOLITE:  A metropolitan. Barrow. 

METROPOLITICAL:  Of or pertaining to a metropolis; being a metropolis; metropolitan; as, the metropolitical chair. Bp. Hall. 

METRORRHAGIA:  Profuse bleeding from the womb, esp. such as does not occur at the menstrual period. 

METROSCOPE:  A modification of the stethoscope, for directly auscultating the uterus from the vagina. 

METROSIDEROS:  A myrtaceous genus of trees or shrubs, found in Australia and the South Sea Islands, and having very hard wood. Metrosideros vera is the true ironwood. 

METROTOME:  An instrument for cutting or scarifying the uterus or the neck of the uterus. 

METROTOMY:  The operation of cutting into the uterus; hysterotomy; the Cæsarean section.  -METRY -me*try. Etym: [See -meter.]  A suffix denoting the art, process, or science, of measuring; as, acidmetry, chlorometry, chronometry. 

METTE:  of Mete, to dream. Chaucer. 

METTLE:  Substance or quality of temperament; spirit, esp. as regards honor, courage, fortitude, ardor, etc.; disposition; -- usually in a good sense. A certain critical hour which shall... try what mettle his heart is made of. South. Gentlemen of brave mettle. Shak. The winged courser, like a generous horse, Shows most true mettle when you check his course. Pope. To put one one's mettle, to cause or incite one to use one's best efforts. 

METTLED:  Having mettle; high-spirited; ardent; full of fire. Addison. 

METTLESOME:  Full of spirit; possessing constitutional ardor; fiery; as, a mettlesome horse.  -- Met"tle*some*ly, adv.  -- Met"tle*some*ness, n. 

MEUM:  Lit., mine; that which is mine; -- used in the phrase meum et tuum, or meum and tuum; as, to confound meum and tuum, to fail to distinguish one's own property from that of others; to be dishonest.  Ancestors . . . generally esteemed more renowned for ancient family and high courage than for accurately regarding the trifling distinction of meum and tuum. Sir W. Scott. 

MEUTE:  A cage for hawks; a mew. See 4th Mew, 1. Milman. 

MEVE:  To move. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MEW:  A gull, esp. the common British species (Larus canus); called also sea mew, maa, mar, mow, and cobb. 

MEW:  To shed or cast; to change; to molt; as, the hawk mewed his feathers. Nine times the moon had mewed her horns. Dryden. 

MEW:  To cast the feathers; to molt; hence, to change; to put on a new appearance. Now everything doth mew, And shifts his rustic winter robe. Turbervile. 

MEW:  To shut up; to inclose; to confine, as in a cage or other inclosure. More pity that the eagle should be mewed. Shak. Close mewed in their sedans, for fear of air. Dryden. 

MEW:  To cry as a cat. [Written also meaw, meow.] Shak. 

MEW:  The common cry of a cat. Shak. 

MEWL:  To cry, as a young child; to squall. [Written also meawl.] Shak. 

MEWLER:  One that mewls. 

MEWS:  An alley where there are stables; a narrow passage; a confined place. [Eng.] Mr. Turveydrop's great room... was built out into a mews at the back. Dickens.  MEXAL; MEXICAL Mex*al", Mex"i*cal, n. Etym: [Sp. mexcal.]  See Mescal. 

MEXICAN:  Of or pertaining to Mexico or its people.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Mexico. Mexican poppy (Bot.), a tropical American herb of the Poppy family (Argemone Mexicana) with much the look of a thistle, but having large yellow or white blossoms.  -- Mexican tea (Bot.), an aromatic kind of pigweed from tropical America (Chenopodium ambrosioides). 

MEXICANIZE:  To cause to be like the Mexicans, or their country, esp. in respect of frequent revolutions of government. 

MEXICANIZE:  To become like the Mexicans, or their country or government. 

MEYNE:  Same as Meine. 

MEZCAL:  Same as Mescal. 

MEZEREON:  A small European shrub (Daphne Mezereum), whose acrid bark is used in medicine. 

MEZQUITA:  A mosque. 

MEZUZOTH:  A piece of parchment bearing the Decalogue and attached to the doorpost; -- in use among orthodox Hebrews.  MEZZA MAJOLICA Mez"za ma*jol"i*ca. [It. See Mezzo; Majolica.] (Ceramics)  Italian pottery of the epoch and general character of majolica, but less brilliantly decorated, esp. such pottery without tin enamel, but painted and glazed. 

MEZZANINE:  With a medium fullness of sound. 

MEZZO:  Mean; not extreme.  MEZZO-RELIEVO Mez"zo-re*lie"vo, n.  Mezzo-rilievo.  MEZZO-RILIEVO Mez"zo-ri*lie"vo, n. Etym: [It.] (a) A middle degree of relief in figures, between high and low relief. (b) Sculpture in this kind of relief. See under Alto-rilievo.  MEZZO-SOPRANO Mez"zo-so*pra"no, a. (Mus.)  Having a medium compass between the soprano and contralto; -- said of the voice of a female singer.  -- n. (a) A mezzo-soprano voice. (b) A person having such a voice. 

MEZZOTINT:  A manner of engraving on copper or steel by drawing upon a surface previously roughened, and then removing the roughness in places by scraping, burnishing, etc., so as to produce the requisite light and shade. Also, an engraving so produced. 

MEZZOTINT:  To engrave in mezzotint. 

MEZZOTINTER:  One who engraves in mezzotint. 

MEZZOTINTO:  Mezzotint. 

MEZZOTINTO:  To engrave in mezzotint; to represent by mezzotint. 

MHO:  A unit of conductivity, being the reciprocal of the ohm. 

MHOMETER:  An instrument for measuring conductivity. 

MHORR:  See Mohr. 

MI:  A syllable applied to the third tone of the scale of C, i. e., to E, in European solmization, but to the third tone of any scale in the American system. 

MIAMIS:  A tribe of Indians that formerly occupied the country between the Wabash and Maumee rivers. 

MIARGYRITE:  A mineral of an iron-black color, and very sectile, consisting principally of sulphur, antimony, and silver. 

MIAS:  The orang-outang. 

MIASCITE:  A granitoid rock containing feldspar, biotite, elæolite, and sodalite. 

MIASM:  Miasma. 

MIASMA:  Infectious particles or germs floating in the air; air made noxious by the presence of such particles or germs; noxious effluvia; malaria. 

MIASMAL:  Containing miasma; miasmatic.  MIASMATIC; MIASMATICAL Mi`as*mat"ic, Mi`as*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. miasmatique.]  Containing, or relating to, miasma; caused by miasma; as, miasmatic diseases. 

MIASMATIST:  One who has made a special study of miasma. 

MIASMOLOGY:  That department of medical science which treats of miasma. 

MIAUL:  To cry as a cat; to mew; to caterwaul. Sir W. Scott. 

MIAUL:  The crying of a cat. 

MICA:  The name of a group of minerals characterized by highly perfect cleavage, so that they readily separate into very thin leaves, more or less elastic. They differ widely in composition, and vary in color from pale brown or yellow to green or black. The transparent forms are used in lanterns, the doors of stoves, etc., being popularly called isinglass. Formerly called also cat-silver, and glimmer.  Note: The important species of the mica group are: muscovite, common or potash mica, pale brown or green, often silvery, including damourite (also called hydromica); biotite, iron-magnesia mica, dark brown, green, or black; lepidomelane, iron, mica, black; phlogopite, magnesia mica, colorless, yellow, brown; lepidolite, lithia mica, rose-red, lilac. Mica (usually muscovite, also biotite) is an essential constituent of granite, gneiss, and mica slate; biotite is common in many eruptive rocks; phlogopite in crystalline limestone and serpentine. Mica diorite (Min.), an eruptive rock allied to diorite but containing mica (biotite) instead of hornblende.  -- Mica powder, a kind of dynamite containing fine scales of mica.  -- Mica schist, Mica slate (Geol.), a schistose rock, consisting of mica and quartz with, usually, some feldspar.  MICACEO-CALCAREOUS Mi*ca`ce*o-cal*ca"re*ous, a. (Geol.)  Partaking of the nature of, or consisting of, mica and lime; -- applied to a mica schist containing carbonate of lime. 

MICACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or containing, mica; splitting into laminæ or leaves like mica. 

MICE:  pl of Mouse. 

MICELLA:  A theoretical aggregation of molecules constituting a structural particle of protoplasm, capable of increase or diminution without change in chemical nature.  MICH; MICHE Mich, Miche, v. i. Etym: [OE. michen; cf. OE. muchier, mucier, to conceal, F. musser, and OHG. muhhen to waylay. Cf. Micher, Curmudgeon, Muset.]  To lie hid; to skulk; to act, or carry one's self, sneakingly. [Obs. or Colloq.] [Written also meach and meech.] Spenser. 

MICHAELMAS:  The feat of the archangel Michael, a church festival, celebrated on the 29th of September. Hence, colloquially, autumn. Michaelmas daisy. (Bot.) See under Daisy. 

MICHER:  One who skulks, or keeps out of sight; hence, a truant; an idler; a thief, etc. [Obs.] Shak. 

MICHERY:  Theft; cheating. [Obs.] Gower. 

MICHING:  Hiding; skulking; cowardly. [Colloq.] [Written also meaching and meeching.] 

MICKLE:  Much; great. [Written also muckle and mockle.] [Old Eng. & Scot.] "A man of mickle might." Spenser. 

MICMACS:  A tribe of Indians inhabiting Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. [Written also Mikmaks.] 

MICO:  A small South American monkey (Mico melanurus), allied to the marmoset. The name was originally applied to an albino variety. 

MICRACOUSTIC:  Same as Microustic. 

MICRASTER:  A genus of sea urchins, similar to Spatangus, abounding in the chalk formation; -- from the starlike disposal of the ambulacral furrows. 

MICRENCEPHALOUS:  Having a small brain.  MICRO-; MICR- Mi"cro-, Mi"cr-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form signifying: (a) Small, little, trivial, slight; as, microcosm, microscope. (b) (Metric System, Elec., Mech., etc.) A millionth part of; as, microfarad, microohm, micrometer. 

MICROAMPERE:  One of the smaller measures of electrical currents; the millionth part of one ampère. 

MICROANALYSIS:  Analysis of the structure of materials from careful observation of photomicrographs. 

MICROBACTERIA:  In the classification of Cohn, one of the four tribes of Bacteria.  Note: In this classification bacteria are divided into four tribes: 1. Spherobacteria, or spherical bacteria, as the genus Micrococcus. 2. Microbacteria, or bacteria in the form of short rods, including the genus Bacterium. 3. Desmobacteria, or bacteria in straight filaments, of which the genus Bacillus is a type. 4. Spirobacteria, or bacteria in spiral filaments, as the genus Vibrio. 

MICROBAROGRAPH:  An instrument for recording minor fluctuations of atmospheric pressure, as opposed to general barometric surges.  MICROBE; MICROBION Mi"crobe, Mi*cro"bi*on, n. Etym: [NL. microbion, fr. Gr. (Biol.)  A microscopic organism; -- particularly applied to bacteria and especially to pathogenic forms; as, the microbe of fowl cholera. 

MICROBIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or caused by, microbes; as, the microbian theory; a microbian disease. 

MICROBIC:  Of or pertaining to a microbe. 

MICROBICIDE:  Any agent detrimental to, or destructive of, the life of microbes or bacterial organisms. 

MICROBIOLOGY:  The study of minute organisms, or microbes, as the bacteria. -- Mi`cro*bi`o*log"ic*al (#), a. -- Mi`cro*bi*ol"o*gist (#), n.  MICROCEPHALIC; MICROCEPHALOUS Mi`cro*ce*phal"ic, Mi`cro*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Micro- + cephalic, cephalous.] (Anat.)  Having a small head; having the cranial cavity small; -- opposed to Ant: megacephalic.  MICRO-CHEMICAL Mi`cro-chem"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to micro-chemistry; as, a micro-chemical test.  MICRO-CHEMISTRY Mi`cro-chem"is*try, n. Etym: [Micro- + chemistry.]  The application of chemical tests to minute objects or portions of matter, magnified by the use of the microscopy; -- distinguished from macro-chemistry. 

MICROCHRONOMETER:  A chronoscope. 

MICROCLINE:  A mineral of the feldspar group, like orthoclase or common feldspar in composition, but triclinic in form. 

MICROCOCCAL:  Of or pertaining to micrococci; caused by micrococci. Nature. 

MICROCOCCUS:  A genus of Spherobacteria, in the form of very small globular or oval cells, forming, by transverse division, filaments, or chains of cells, or in some cases single organisms shaped like dumb-bells (Diplococcus), all without the power of motion. See Illust. of Ascoccus.  Note: Physiologically, micrococci are divided into three groups; chromogenic, characterized by their power of forming pigment; zymogenic, including those associated with definite chemical processes; and pathogenic, those connected with disease. 

MICROCOSM:  A little world; a miniature universe. Hence (so called by Paracelsus), a man, as a supposed epitome of the exterior universe or great world. Opposed to macrocosm. Shak.  MICROCOSMIC; MICROCOSMICAL Mi`cro*cos"mic, Mi`cro*cos"mic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. microcosmique.]  Of or pertaining to the microcosm. Microcosmic salt (Chem.), a white crystalline substance obtained by mixing solutions of sodium phosphate and ammonium phosphate, and also called hydric-sodic- ammonic-phosphate. It is a powerful flux, and is used as a substitute for borax as a blowpipe reagent in testing for the metallic oxides. Originally obtained by the alchemists from human urine, and called sal microcosmicum. 

MICROCOSMOGRAPHY:  Description of man as a microcosm. 

MICROCOULOMB:  A measure of electrical quantity; the millionth part of one coulomb. 

MICROCOUSTIC:  Pertaining, or suited, to the audition of small sounds; fitted to assist hearing. 

MICROCOUSTIC:  An instrument for making faint sounds audible, as to a partially deaf person. 

MICROCRITH:  The weight of the half hydrogen molecule, or of the hydrogen atom, taken as the standard in comparing the atomic weights of the elements; thus, an atom of oxygen weighs sixteen microcriths. See Crith. J. P. Cooke. 

MICROCRYSTALLINE:  Crystalline on a fine, or microscopic, scale; consisting of fine crystals; as, the ground mass of certain porphyrics is microcrystalline. 

MICROCYTE:  One of the elementary granules found in blood. They are much smaller than an ordinary corpuscle, and are particularly noticeable in disease, as in anæmia. 

MICRODONT:  Having small teeth. 

MICROFARAD:  The millionth part of a farad. 

MICROFORM:  A microscopic form of life; an animal or vegetable organism microscopic size.  MICRO-GEOLOGICAL Mi`cro-ge`o*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to micro-geology.  MICRO-GEOLOGY Mi`cro-ge*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Micro- + geology.]  The part of geology relating to structure and organisms which require to be studied with a microscope. 

MICROGRAPH:  An instrument for executing minute writing or engraving. 

MICROGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to micrography. 

MICROGRAPHY:  The description of microscopic objects. 

MICROHM:  The millionth part of an ohm. 

MICROLEPIDOPTERA:  A tribe of Lepidoptera, including a vast number of minute species, as the plume moth, clothes moth, etc. 

MICROLESTES:  An extinct genus of small Triassic mammals, the oldest yet found in European strata. 

MICROLITE:  A minute inclosed crystal, often observed when minerals or rocks are examined in thin sections under the microscope. 

MICROLITH:  Same as Microlite, 2. 

MICROLITHIC:  Formed of small stones.  MICROLOGIC; MICROLOGICAL Mi`cro*log"ic, Mi`cro*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to micrology; very minute; as, micrologic examination.  -- Mi`cro*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

MICROMERE:  One of the smaller cells, or blastomeres, resulting from the complete segmentation of a telolecithal ovum. 

MICROMETER:  An instrument, used with a telescope or microscope, for measuring minute distances, or the apparent diameters of objects which subtend minute angles. The measurement given directly is that of the image of the object formed at the focus of the object glass. Circular, or Ring, micrometer, a metallic ring fixed in the focus of the object glass of a telescope, and used to determine differences of right ascension and declination between stars by observations of the times at which the stars cross the inner or outer periphery of the ring.  -- Double image micrometer, a micrometer in which two images of an object are formed in the field, usually by the two halves of a bisected lens which are movable along their line of section by a screw, and distances are determined by the number of screw revolutions necessary to bring the points to be measured into optical coincidence. When the two images are formed by a bisected objects glass, it is called a divided-object-glass micrometer, and when the instrument is large and equatorially mounted, it is known as a heliometer.  -- Double refraction micrometer, a species of double image micrometer, in which the two images are formed by the double refraction of rock crystal.  -- Filar, or Bifilar, micrometer. See under Bifilar.  -- Micrometer caliper or gauge (Mech.), a caliper or gauge with a micrometer screw, for measuring dimensions with great accuracy.  -- Micrometer head, the head of a micrometer screw.  -- Micrometer microscope, a compound microscope combined with a filar micrometer, used chiefly for reading and subdividing the divisions of large astronomical and geodetical instruments.  -- Micrometer screw, a screw with a graduated head used in some forms of micrometers.  -- Position micrometer. See under Position.  -- Scale, or Linear, micrometer, a minute and very delicately graduated scale of equal parts used in the field of a telescope or microscope, for measuring distances by direct comparison.  MICROMETRIC; MICROMETRICAL Mi`cro*met"ric, Mi`cro*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. micrométrique.]  Belonging to micrometry; made by the micrometer.  -- Mi`cro*met"ric*al*ly, adv. 

MICROMETRY:  The art of measuring with a micrometer. 

MICROMILLIMETER:  The millionth part of a meter. 

MICRON:  A measure of length; the thousandth part of one millimeter; the millionth part of a meter. 

MICRONESIAN:  Of or pertaining to Micronesia, a collective designation of the islands in the western part of the Pacific Ocean, embracing the Marshall and Gilbert groups, the Ladrones, the Carolines, etc. 

MICRONESIANS:  A dark race inhabiting the Micronesian Islands. They are supposed to be a mixed race, derived from Polynesians and Papuans. 

MICRONOMETER:  An instrument for noting minute portions of time.  MICROORGANISM; MICRO-ORGANISM Mi`cro*ör"gan*ism, n. Etym: [Micro- + organism.] (Biol.)  Any microscopic form of life; -- particularly applied to bacteria and similar organisms, esp. such are supposed to cause infectious diseases. 

MICROPANTOGRAPH:  A kind of pantograph which produces copies microscopically minute. 

MICROPARASITE:  A parasitic microörganism. -- Mi`cro*par`a*sit"ic (#), a. 

MICROPEGMATITE:  A rock showing under the microscope the structure of a graphic granite (pegmatite).  -- Mi`cro*peg`ma*tit"ic, a. 

MICROPHONE:  An instrument for intensifying and making audible very feeble sounds. It produces its effects by the changes of intensity in an electric current, occasioned by the variations in the contact resistance of conducting bodies, especially of imperfect conductors, under the action of acoustic vibrations. 

MICROPHONIC:  Of or pert. to a microphone; serving to intensify weak sounds. 

MICROPHONICS:  The science which treats of the means of increasing the intensity of low or weak sounds, or of the microphone. 

MICROPHONOUS:  Serving to augment the intensity of weak sounds; microcoustic. 

MICROPHOTOGRAPHY:  The art of making microphotographs.  MICROPHTHALMIA; MICROPHTHALMY Mi`croph*thal"mi*a, Mi`croph*thal"my, n. Etym: [Micro- + Gr.  An unnatural smallness of the eyes, occurring as the result of disease or of imperfect development. 

MICROPHYLLOUS:  Small-leaved. 

MICROPHYTAL:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, microphytes. 

MICROPHYTE:  A very minute plant, one of certain unicellular algæ, such as the germs of various infectious diseases are believed to be. 

MICROSCOPAL:  Pertaining to microscopy, or to the use of the microscope. Huxley. 

MICROSCOPE:  An optical instrument, consisting of a lens, or combination of lenses, for making an enlarged image of an object which is too minute to be viewed by the naked eye. Compound microscope, an instrument consisting of a combination of lenses such that the image formed by the lens or set of lenses nearest the object (called the objective) is magnified by another lens called the ocular or eyepiece.  -- Oxyhydrogen microscope, and Solar microscope. See under Oxyhydrogen, and Solar.  -- Simple, or Single, microscope, a single convex lens used to magnify objects placed in its focus. 

MICROSCOPIAL:  Microscopic. [R.] Berkeley.  MICROSCOPIC; MICROSCOPICAL Mi`cro*scop"ic, Mi`cro*scop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. microscopique.]  1. Of or pertaining to the microscope or to microscopy; made with a microscope; as, microscopic observation.  2. Able to see extremely minute objects. Why has not man a microscopic eye Pope.  3. Very small; visible only by the aid of a microscope; as, a microscopic insect. 

MICROSCOPICALLY:  By the microscope; with minute inspection; in a microscopic manner. 

MICROSCOPIST:  One skilled in, or given to, microscopy. 

MICROSCOPY:  The use of the microscope; investigation with the microscope. 

MICROSEISM:  A feeble earth tremor not directly perceptible, but detected only by means of specially constructed apparatus. -- Mi`cro*seis"mic (#), *seis"mic*al (#), a. 

MICROSEISMOGRAPH:  A microseismometer; specif., a microseismometer producing a graphic record. 

MICROSEISMOLOGY:  Science or study of microseisms. 

MICROSEISMOMETER:  A seismometer for measuring amplitudes or periods, or both, of microseisms. --Mi`cro*seis*mom"e*try (#), n. 

MICROSEME:  Having the orbital index relatively small; having the orbits broad transversely; -- opposed to Ant: megaseme. 

MICROSPECTROSCOPE:  A spectroscope arranged for attachment to a microscope, for observation of the spectrum of light from minute portions of any substance. 

MICROSPORANGIUM:  A sporangium or conceptacle containing only very minute spores. Cf. Macrosporangium. 

MICROSPORE:  One of the exceedingly minute spores found in certain flowerless plants, as Selaginella and Isoetes, which bear two kinds of spores, one very much smaller than the other. Cf. Macrospore. 

MICROSPORIC:  Of or pertaining to microspores. 

MICROSTHENE:  One of a group of mammals having a small size as a typical characteristic. It includes the lower orders, as the Insectivora, Cheiroptera, Rodentia, and Edentata. 

MICROSTHENIC:  Having a typically small size; of or pertaining to the microsthenes. 

MICROTASIMETER:  A tasimeter, especially when arranged for measuring very small extensions. See Tasimeter. 

MICROTOME:  An instrument for making very thin sections for microscopical examination.  MICROTOMIC; MICROTOMICAL Mi`cro*tom"ic, Mi`cro*tom"ic*al, a.  Of or pert. to the microtome or microtomy; cutting thin slices. 

MICROTOMIST:  One who is skilled in or practices microtomy. 

MICROTOMY:  The art of using the microtome; investigation carried on with the microtome. 

MICROVOLT:  A measure of electro-motive force; the millionth part of one volt. 

MICROWEBER:  The millionth part of one weber. 

MICROZOA:  The Infusoria.  MICROZOOSPORE; MICROZOOESPORE Mi`cro*zo"ö*spore, n. Etym: [Micro- + zoöspore.] (Bot.)  A small motile spore furnished with two vibratile cilia, found in certain green algæ. 

MICROZYME:  A microörganism which is supposed to act like a ferment in causing or propagating certain infectious or contagious diseases; a pathogenic bacterial organism. 

MICTURITION:  The act of voiding urine; also, a morbidly frequent passing of the urine, in consequence of disease. 

MID:  Made with a somewhat elevated position of some certain part of the tongue, in relation to the palate; midway between the high and the low; -- said of certain vowel sounds; as, a (ale), ê (êll), o (old). See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 10, 11.  Note: Mid is much used as a prefix, or combining form, denoting the middle or middle part of a thing; as, mid-air, mid-channel, mid-age, midday, midland, etc. Also, specifically, in geometry, to denote a circle inscribed in a triangle (a midcircle), or relation to such a circle; as, mid-center, midradius. 

MID:  Middle. [Obs.] About the mid of night come to my tent. Shak. 

MID:  See Amid. 

MIDA:  The larva of the bean fly. 

MIDAS:  A genus of longeared South American monkeys, including numerous species of marmosets. See Marmoset.  MIDAS'S EAR Mi"das's ear". Etym: [See Midas.] (Zoöl.)  A pulmonate mollusk (Auricula, or Ellobium, aurismidæ); -- so called from resemblance to a human ear. 

MIDBRAIN:  The middle segment of the brain; the mesencephalon. See Brain. 

MIDDAY:  The middle part of the day; noon. 

MIDDAY:  Of or pertaining to noon; meridional; as, the midday sun. 

MIDDEN:  The common European crow. [Prov. Eng.] 

MIDDEST:  Situated most nearly in the middle; middlemost; midmost. [Obs.] " 'Mongst the middest crowd." Spenser. 

MIDDEST:  Midst; middle. [Obs.] Fuller. 

MIDDING:  Same as Midden. 

MIDDLE:  The point or part equally distant from the extremities or exterior limits, as of a line, a surface, or a solid; an intervening point or part in space, time, or order of series; the midst; central portion; specif., the waist. Chaucer. "The middle of the land." Judg. ix. 37. In this, as in most questions of state, there is a middle. Burke.  Syn.  -- See Midst.  MIDDLE-AGE Mid"dle-age`, Etym: [Middle + age. Cf. Mediæval.]  Of or pertaining to the Middle Ages; mediæval.  MIDDLE-AGED Mid"dle-aged`, a.  Being about the middle of the ordinary age of man; between 30 and 50 years old.  MIDDLE-EARTH Mid"dle-earth`, n.  The world, considered as lying between heaven and hell. [Obs.] Shak.  MIDDLE-GROUND Mid"dle-ground`, n. (Paint.)  That part of a picture between the foreground and the background. 

MIDDLEMAN:  The man who occupies a central position in a file of soldiers. 

MIDDLEMOST:  Being in the middle, or nearest the middle; midmost. 

MIDDLER:  One of a middle or intermediate class in some schools and seminaries. 

MIDDLING:  Of middle rank, state, size, or quality; about equally distant from the extremes; medium; moderate; mediocre; ordinary. "A town of but middling size." Hallam. Plainly furnished, as beseemed the middling circumstances of its inhabitants. Hawthorne. -- Mid"dling*ly, adv.  -- Mid"dling*ness, n. 

MIDDY:  A colloquial abbreviation of midshipman. 

MIDFEATHER:  A vertical water space in a fire box or combustion chamber.  2. (Mining)  A support for the center of a tunnel. 

MIDGARD:  The middle space or region between heaven and hell; the abode of human beings; the earth.  MIDGARD; MIDGARTH; MITHGARTHR Mid"gard (mid"gärd), n. Also Mid"garth (-gärth), Mith"garthr (Icel. meth"gärthr'). [Icel. miðgarðr.] (Teut. Myth.)  The middle space or region between heaven and hell, the abode of human beings; the earth. 

MIDGET:  A minute bloodsucking fly. [Local, U. S.]  2. A very diminutive person. 

MIDGUT:  The middle part of the alimentary canal from the stomach, or entrance of the bile duct, to, or including, the large intestine. 

MIDHEAVEN:  The meridian, or middle line of the heavens; the point of the ecliptic on the meridian. 

MIDLAND:  The interior or central region of a country; -- usually in the plural. Drayton. 

MIDMAIN:  The middle part of the main or sea. [Poetic] Chapman. 

MIDMOST:  Middle; middlemost. Ere night's midmost, stillest hour was past. Byron. 

MIDNIGHT:  The middle of the night; twelve o'clock at night. The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve. Shak. 

MIDNIGHT:  Being in, or characteristic of, the middle of the night; as, midnight studies; midnight gloom. "Midnight shout and revelry." Milton.  MIDNIGHT SUN Mid"night` sun.  The sun shining at midnight in the arctic or antarctic summer. 

MIDRASH:  A talmudic exposition of the Hebrew law, or of some part of it. 

MIDRIB:  A continuation of the petiole, extending from the base to the apex of the lamina of a leaf. 

MIDRIFF:  See Diaphragm, n., 2. Smote him into the midriff with a stone. Milton.  MID SEA; MID-SEA Mid" sea", or; Mid"-sea".  The middle part of the sea or ocean. Milton. The Mid-sea, the Mediterranean Sea. [Obs.] 

MIDSHIP:  Of or pertaining to, or being in, the middle of a ship. Midship beam (Naut.), the beam or timber upon which the broadest part of a vessel is formed.  -- Midship bend, the broadest frame in a vessel. Weale. 

MIDSHIPMAN:  An American marine fish of the genus Porichthys, allied to the toadfish. Cadet midshipman, formerly a title distinguishing a cadet line officer from a cadet engineer at the U. S. Naval Academy. See under Cadet.  -- Cadet midshipman, formerly, a naval cadet who had served his time, passed his examinations, and was awaiting promotion; -- now called, in the United States, midshipman; in England, sublieutenant. 

MIDSHIPS:  In the middle of a ship; -- properly amidships. 

MIDSHIPS:  The timbers at the broadest part of the vessel. R. H. Dana, Jr. 

MIDST:  In the midst of; amidst. Shak. 

MIDST:  In the middle. [R.] Milton. 

MIDSUMMER:  The middle of summer. Shak. Midsummer daisy (Bot.), the oxeye daisy. 

MIDWARD:  Situated in the middle. 

MIDWARD:  In or toward the midst. 

MIDWAY:  The middle of the way or distance; a middle way or course. Shak. Paths indirect, or in the midway faint. Milton. 

MIDWAY:  Being in the middle of the way or distance; as, the midway air. Shak. 

MIDWAY:  In the middle of the way or distance; half way. "She met his glance midway." Dryden. 

MIDWEEK:  The middle of the week. Also used adjectively. 

MIDWIFE:  A woman who assists other women in childbirth; a female practitioner of the obstetric art. 

MIDWIFE:  To assist in childbirth. 

MIDWIFE:  To perform the office of midwife. 

MIDWINTER:  The middle of winter. Dryden. 

MIDWIVE:  To midwife. [Obs.] 

MIEN:  Aspect; air; manner; demeanor; carriage; bearing. Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As, to be hated, needs but to be seen. Pope. 

MIFF:  A petty falling out; a tiff; a quarrel; offense. Fielding. 

MIFF:  To offend slightly. [Colloq.] 

MIGHT:  imp. of May. Etym: [AS. meahte, mihte.] 

MIGHT:  Force or power of any kind, whether of body or mind; energy or intensity of purpose, feeling, or action; means or resources to effect an object; strength; force; power; ability; capacity. What so strong, But wanting rest, will also want of might Spenser. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. Deut. vi. 5. With might and main. See under 2d Main. 

MIGHTFUL:  Mighty. [Obs.] Shak. 

MIGHTLESS:  Without; weak. [Obs.] 

MIGHTY:  A warrior of great force and courage. [R. & Obs.] 1 Chron. xi. 12. 

MIGHTY:  In a great degree; very. [Colloq.] "He was mighty methodical." Jeffrey. We have a mighty pleasant garden. Doddridge. 

MIGNIARD:  Soft; dainty. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

MIGNIARDISE:  Delicate fondling. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

MIGNON:  See 3d Minion. 

MIGNON:  To flatter. [R. & Obs.] Danie 

MIGNONETTE:  A plant (Reseda odorata) having greenish flowers with orange- colored stamens, and exhaling a delicious fragrance. In Africa it is a low shrub, but further north it is usually an annual herb. Mignonette pepper, coarse pepper. 

MIGRAINE:  Same as Megrim.  -- Mi*grain"ous, a. 

MIGRANT:  Migratory. Sir T. Browne.  -- n.  A migratory bird or other animal. 

MIGRATION:  The act of migrating. 

MIKADO:  The popular designation of the hereditary sovereign of Japan. 

MIKMAKS:  Same as Micmacs. 

MILADY:  Lit., my lady; hence (as used on the Continent), an English noblewoman or gentlewoman. 

MILAGE:  Same as Mileage. 

MILANESE:  Of or pertaining to Milan in Italy, or to its inhabitants.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or inhabitant of Milan; people of Milan. 

MILD:  Gentle; pleasant; kind; soft; bland; clement; hence, moderate in degree or quality; -- the opposite of harsh, severe, irritating, violent, disagreeable, etc.; -- applied to persons and things; as, a mild disposition; a mild eye; a mild air; a mild medicine; a mild insanity. The rosy morn resigns her light And milder glory to the noon. Waller. Adore him as a mild and merciful Being. Rogers. Mild, or Low, steel, steel that has but little carbon in it and is not readily hardened.  Syn.  -- Soft; gentle; bland; calm; tranquil; soothing; pleasant; placid; meek; kind; tender; indulgent; clement; mollifying; lenitive; assuasive. See Gentle. 

MILDEN:  To make mild, or milder. Lowell. 

MILDEW:  A growth of minute powdery or webby fungi, whitish or of different colors, found on various diseased or decaying substances. 

MILDEW:  To taint with mildew. He... mildews the white wheat. Shak. 

MILDEW:  To become tainted with mildew. 

MILDLY:  In a mild manner. 

MILDNESS:  The quality or state of being mild; as, mildness of temper; the mildness of the winter. 

MILE:  A certain measure of distance, being equivalent in England and the United States to 320 poles or rods, or 5,280 feet.  Note: The distance called a mile varies greatly in different countries. Its length in yards is, in Norway, 12,182; in Brunswick, 11,816; in Sweden, 11,660; in Hungary, 9,139; in Switzerland, 8,548; in Austria, 8,297; in Prussia, 8,238; in Poland, 8,100; in Italy, 2,025; in England and the United States, 1,760; in Spain, 1,552; in the Netherlands, 1,094. Geographical, or Nautical mile, one sixtieth of a degree of a great circle of the earth, or 6080.27 feet.  -- Mile run. Same as Train mile. See under Train.  -- Roman mile, a thousand paces, equal to 1,614 yards English measure.  -- Statute mile, a mile conforming to statute, that is, in England and the United States, a mile of 5,280 feet, as distinguished from any other mile. 

MILEPOST:  A post, or one of a series of posts, set up to indicate spaces of a mile each or the distance in miles from a given place. 

MILESIAN:  Of or pertaining to Miletus, a city of Asia Minor, or to its inhabitants.  2. (Irish Legendary Hist.)  Descended from King Milesius of Spain, whose two sons are said to have conquered Ireland about 1300 b. c.; or pertaining to the descendants of King Milesius; hence, Irish. 

MILESTONE:  A stone serving the same purpose as a milepost. 

MILFOIL:  A common composite herb (Achillea Millefolium) with white flowers and finely dissected leaves; yarrow. Water milfoil (Bot.), an aquatic herb with dissected leaves (Myriophyllum). 

MILIARIA:  A fever accompanied by an eruption of small, isolated, red pimples, resembling a millet seed in form or size; miliary fever. 

MILIARY:  Accompanied with an eruption like millet seeds; as, a miliary fever.  3. (Zoöl.)  Small and numerous; as, the miliary tubercles of Echini. 

MILIARY:  One of the small tubercles of Echini. 

MILICE:  Militia. [Obs.] 

MILIEU:  Environment.  The intellectual and moral milieu created by multitudes of self- centered, cultivated personalities. J. A. Symonds.  It is one of the great outstanding facts of his progressive relation to the elements of his social milieu. J. M. Baldwin. 

MILIOLA:  A genus of Foraminifera, having a porcelanous shell with several longitudinal chambers. 

MILIOLITE:  A fossil shell of, or similar to, the genus Miliola. 

MILIOLITE:  The same Milliolitic. Miliolite limestone (Geol.), a building stone, one of the group of the Paris basin, almost entirely made up of many-chambered microscopic shells. 

MILIOLITIC:  Of or pertaining to the genus Miliola; containing miliolites. 

MILITANT:  Engaged in warfare; fighting; combating; serving as a soldier.  -- Mil"i*tant*ly, adv. At which command the powers militant... Moved on in silence. Milton. Church militant, the Christian church on earth, which is supposed to be engaged in a constant warfare against its enemies, and is thus distinguished from the church triumphant, in heaven. 

MILITAR:  Military. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MILITARILY:  In a military manner. 

MILITARIST:  A military man. [Obs.] Shak. 

MILITARY:  The whole body of soldiers; soldiery; militia; troops; the army. 

MILITATE:  To make war; to fight; to contend; -- usually followed by against and with. These are great questions, where great names militate against each other. Burke. The invisible powers of heaven seemed to militate on the side of the pious emperor. Gibbon. 

MILITIAMAN:  One who belongs to the militia. 

MILITIATE:  To carry on, or prepare for, war. [Obs.] Walpole. 

MILK:  A white fluid secreted by the mammary glands of female mammals for the nourishment of their young, consisting of minute globules of fat suspended in a solution of casein, albumin, milk sugar, and inorganic salts. "White as morne milk." Chaucer.  2. (Bot.)  A kind of juice or sap, usually white in color, found in certain plants; latex. See Latex.  3. An emulsion made by bruising seeds; as, the milk of almonds, produced by pounding almonds with sugar and water.  4. (Zoöl.)  The ripe, undischarged spat of an oyster. Condensed milk. See under Condense, v. t.  -- Milk crust (Med.), vesicular eczema occurring on the face and scalp of nursing infants. See Eczema.  -- Milk fever. (a) (Med.) A fever which accompanies or precedes the first lactation. It is usually transitory. (b) (Vet. Surg.) A form puerperal peritonitis in cattle; also, a variety of meningitis occurring in cows after calving.  -- Milk glass, glass having a milky appearance.  -- Milk knot (Med.), a hard lump forming in the breast of a nursing woman, due to obstruction to the flow of milk and congestion of the mammary glands.  -- Milk leg (Med.), a swollen condition of the leg, usually in puerperal women, caused by an inflammation of veins, and characterized by a white appearance occasioned by an accumulation of serum and sometimes of pus in the cellular tissue.  -- Milk meats, food made from milk, as butter and cheese. [Obs.] Bailey.  -- Milk mirror. Same as Escutcheon, 2.  -- Milk molar (Anat.), one of the deciduous molar teeth which are shed and replaced by the premolars.  -- Milk of lime (Chem.), a watery emulsion of calcium hydrate, produced by macerating quicklime in water.  -- Milk parsley (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum palustre) of Europe and Asia, having a milky juice.  -- Milk pea (Bot.), a genus (Galactia) of leguminous and, usually, twining plants.  -- Milk sickness (Med.), a peculiar malignant disease, occurring in some parts of the Western United States, and affecting certain kinds of farm stock (esp. cows), and persons who make use of the meat or dairy products of infected cattle. Its chief symptoms in man are uncontrollable vomiting, obstinate constipation, pain, and muscular tremors. Its origin in cattle has been variously ascribed to the presence of certain plants in their food, and to polluted drinking water.  -- Milk snake (Zoöl.), a harmless American snake (Ophibolus triangulus, or O. eximius). It is variously marked with white, gray, and red. Called also milk adder, chicken snake, house snake, etc.  -- Milk sugar. (Physiol. Chem.) See Lactose, and Sugar of milk (below).  -- Milk thistle (Bot.), an esculent European thistle (Silybum marianum), having the veins of its leaves of a milky whiteness.  -- Milk thrush. (Med.) See Thrush.  -- Milk tooth (Anat.), one of the temporary first set of teeth in young mammals; in man there are twenty.  -- Milk tree (Bot.), a tree yielding a milky juice, as the cow tree of South America (Brosimum Galactodendron), and the Euphorbia balsamifera of the Canaries, the milk of both of which is wholesome food.  -- Milk vessel (Bot.), a special cell in the inner bark of a plant, or a series of cells, in which the milky juice is contained. See Latex.  -- Rock milk. See Agaric mineral, under Agaric.  -- Sugar of milk. The sugar characteristic of milk; a hard white crystalline slightly sweet substance obtained by evaporation of the whey of milk. It is used in pellets and powder as a vehicle for homeopathic medicines, and as an article of diet. See Lactose. 

MILK:  To draw or to yield milk. 

MILKEN:  Consisting of milk. [Obs.] 

MILKFUL:  Full of milk; abounding with food. [R.] "Milkful vales." Sylvester. 

MILKILY:  In a milky manner. 

MILKINESS:  State or quality of being milky.  MILK-LIVERED Milk"-liv`ered, a.  White-livered; cowardly; timorous. 

MILKMAID:  A woman who milks cows or is employed in the dairy. 

MILKMAN:  A man who sells milk or delivers is to customers.  MILK SICKNESS Milk sickness. (Veter.)  A peculiar malignant disease, occurring in parts of the western United States, and affecting certain kinds of farm stock (esp. cows), and persons using the meat or dairy products of infected cattle. Its chief symptoms in man are uncontrollable vomiting, obstinate constipation, pain, and muscular tremors. Its origin in cattle has been variously ascribed to the presence of certain plants in their food, and to polluted water. 

MILKSOP:  A piece of bread sopped in milk; figuratively, an effeminate or weak-minded person. Shak. To wed a milksop or a coward ape. Chaucer.  MILK VETCH Milk" vetch`. (Bot.)  A leguminous herb (Astragalus glycyphyllos) of Europe and Asia, supposed to increase the secretion of milk in goats.  Note: The name is sometimes taken for the whole genus Astragalus, of which there are about two hundred species in North America, and even more elsewhere. 

MILKWEED:  Any plant of the genera Asclepias and Acerates, abounding in a milky juice, and having its seed attached to a long silky down; silkweed. The name is also applied to several other plants with a milky juice, as to several kinds of spurge. 

MILKWORT:  A genus of plants (Polygala) of many species. The common European P. vulgaris was supposed to have the power of producing a flow of milk in nurses.  Note: The species of Campanula, or bellflower, are sometimes called milkwort, from their juice. 

MILL:  A money of account of the United States, having the value of the tenth of a cent, or the thousandth of a dollar. 

MILL:  A hardened steel roller having a design in relief, used for imprinting a reversed copy of the design in a softer metal, as copper.  7. (Mining) (a) An excavation in rock, transverse to the workings, from which material for filling is obtained. (b) A passage underground through which ore is shot.  8. A milling cutter. See Illust. under Milling.  9. A pugilistic. [Cant] R. D. Blackmore. Edge mill, Flint mill, etc. See under Edge, Flint, etc.  -- Mill bar (Iron Works), a rough bar rolled or drawn directly from a bloom or puddle bar for conversion into merchant iron in the mill.  -- Mill cinder, slag from a puddling furnace.  -- Mill head, the head of water employed to turn the wheel of a mill.  -- Mill pick, a pick for dressing millstones.  -- Mill pond, a pond that supplies the water for a mill.  -- Mill race, the canal in which water is conveyed to a mill wheel, or the current of water which drives the wheel.  -- Mill tail, the water which flows from a mill wheel after turning it, or the channel in which the water flows.  -- Mill tooth, a grinder or molar tooth.  -- Mill wheel, the water wheel that drives the machinery of a mill.  -- Roller mill, a mill in which flour or meal is made by crushing grain between rollers.  -- Stamp mill (Mining), a mill in which ore is crushed by stamps.  -- To go through the mill, to experience the suffering or discipline necessary to bring one to a certain degree of knowledge or skill, or to a certain mental state. 

MILL:  To swim under water; -- said of air-breathing creatures. 

MILLBOARD:  A kind of stout pasteboard.  MILL-CAKE Mill"-cake`, n.  The incorporated materials for gunpowder, in the form of a dense mass or cake, ready to be subjected to the process of granulation. 

MILLDAM:  A dam or mound to obstruct a water course, and raise the water to a height sufficient to turn a mill wheel. 

MILLED:  Having been subjected to some process of milling. Milled cloth, cloth that has been beaten in a fulling mill.  -- Milled lead, lead rolled into sheets.  MILLEFIORE GLASS Mil`le*fi*o"re glass`. Etym: [It. mille thousand + flore flower.]  Slender rods or tubes of colored glass fused together and embedded in clear glass; -- used for paperweights and other small articles. 

MILLENARIAN:  Consisting of a thousand years; of or pertaining to the millennium, or to the Millenarians. 

MILLENARIAN:  One who believes that Christ will personally reign on earth a thousand years; a Chiliast.  MILLENARIANISM; MILLENARISM Mil`le*na"ri*an*ism, Mil"le*na*rism, n.  The doctrine of Millenarians. 

MILLENARY:  Consisting of a thousand; millennial. 

MILLENARY:  The space of a thousand years; a millennium; also, a Millenarian."During that millenary." Hare. 

MILLENNIAL:  Of or pertaining to the millennium, or to a thousand years; as, a millennial period; millennial happiness.  MILLENNIALISM; MILLENNIARISM Mil*len"ni*al*ism, Mil*len"ni*a*rism, n.  Belief in, or expectation of, the millennium; millenarianism. 

MILLENNIALIST:  One who believes that Christ will reign personally on earth a thousand years; a Chiliast; also, a believer in the universal prevalence of Christianity for a long period. 

MILLENNIST:  One who believes in the millennium. [Obs.] Johnson. 

MILLENNIUM:  A thousand years; especially, thousand years mentioned in the twentieth chapter in the twentieth chapter of Revelation, during which holiness is to be triumphant throughout the world. Some believe that, during this period, Christ will reign on earth in person with his saints. 

MILLEPED:  A myriapod with many legs, esp. a chilognath, as the galleyworm. [Written also millipede and milliped.] 

MILLEPORA:  A genus of Hydrocorallia, which includes the millipores. 

MILLEPORE:  Any coral of the genus Millepora, having the surface nearly smooth, and perforated with very minute unequal pores, or cells. The animals are hydroids, not Anthozoa. See Hydrocorallia. 

MILLEPORITE:  A fossil millepore. 

MILLERITE:  A believer in the doctrine of William Miller (d. 1849), who taught that the end of the world and the second coming of Christ were at hand. 

MILLERITE:  A sulphide of nickel, commonly occurring in delicate capillary crystals, also in incrustations of a bronze yellow; -- sometimes called hair pyrites. 

MILLESIMAL:  Thousandth; consisting of thousandth parts; as, millesimal fractions. 

MILLET:  The name of several cereal and forage grasses which bear an abundance of small roundish grains. The common millets of Germany and Southern Europe are Panicum miliaceum, and Setaria Italica.  Note: Arabian millet is Sorghum Halepense.  -- Egyptian or East Indian, millet is Penicillaria spicata.  -- Indian millet is Sorghum vulgare. (See under Indian.) -- Italian millet is Setaria Italica, a coarse, rank-growing annual grass, valuable for fodder when cut young, and bearing nutritive seeds; -- called also Hungarian grass.  -- Texas millet is Panicum Texanum.  -- Wild millet, or Millet grass, is Milium effusum, a tail grass growing in woods.  MILLI- Mil"li-. Etym: [From L. mille a thousand.] (Metric System, Elec., Mech., etc.)  A prefix denoting a thousandth part of; as, millimeter, milligram, milliampère. 

MILLIAMPERE:  The thousandth part of one ampère. 

MILLIARD:  A thousand millions; -- called also billion. See Billion. 

MILLIARY:  Of or pertaining to a mile, or to distance by miles; denoting a mile or miles. A milliary column, from which they used to compute the distance of all the cities and places of note. Evelyn. 

MILLIARY:  A milestone. 

MILLIER:  A weight of the metric system, being one million grams; a metric ton. 

MILLIFOLD:  Thousandfold. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode).  MILLIGRAM; MILLIGRAMME Mil"li*gram, Mil"li*gramme, n. Etym: [F. milligramme; milli- milli- + gramme. See 3d Gram.]  A measure of weight, in the metric system, being the thousandth part of a gram, equal to the weight of a cubic millimeter of water, or .01543 of a grain avoirdupois.  MILLILITER; MILLILITRE Mil"li*li`ter, Mil"li*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. millilitre; milli- milli- + litre. See Liter.]  A measure of capacity in the metric system, containing the thousandth part of a liter. It is a cubic centimeter, and is equal to .061 of an English cubic inch, or to .0338 of an American fluid ounce.  MILLIMETER; MILLIMETRE Mil"li*me`ter, Mil"li*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. millimètre; milli- milli- + mètre. See 3d Meter.]  A lineal measure in the metric system, containing the thousandth part of a meter; equal to .03937 of an inch. See 3d Meter. 

MILLIMICRON:  The thousandish part of a micron or the millionth part of a millimeter; -- a unit of length used in measuring light waves, etc. 

MILLINET:  A stiff cotton fabric used by milliners for lining bonnets. 

MILLING:  The act or employment of grinding or passing through a mill; the process of fulling; the process of making a raised or intented edge upon coin, etc.; the process of dressing surfaces of various shapes with rotary cutters. See Mill. High milling, milling in which grain is reduced to flour by a succession of crackings, or of slight and partial crushings, alternately with sifting and sorting the product.  -- Low milling, milling in which the reduction is effected in a single crushing or grinding.  -- Milling cutter, a fluted, sharp-edged rotary cutter for dressing surfaces, as of metal, of various shapes.  -- Milling machine, a machine tool for dressing surfaces by rotary cutters.  -- Milling tool, a roller with indented edge or surface, for producing like indentations in metal by rolling pressure, as in turning; a knurling tool; a milling cutter. 

MILLIONAIRE:  One whose wealth is counted by millions of francs, dollars, or pounds; a very rich person; a person worth a million or more. [Written also millionnaire.] 

MILLIONAIRESS:  A woman who is a millionaire, or the wife of a millionaire. [Humorous] Holmes. 

MILLIONARY:  Of or pertaining to millions; consisting of millions; as, the millionary chronology of the pundits. Pinker 

MILLIONED:  Multiplied by millions; innumerable. [Obs.] Shak. 

MILLIONNAIRE:  Millionaire. 

MILLIONTH:  Being the last one of a million of units or objects counted in regular order from the first of a series or succession; being one of a million. 

MILLIONTH:  The quotient of a unit divided by one million; one of a million equal parts. 

MILLIPED:  The same Milleped. 

MILLISTERE:  A liter, or cubic decimeter. 

MILLIWEBER:  The thousandth part of one weber.  MILLREA; MILLREE; MILLREIS Mill"rea`, Mill"ree`, Mill"reis`, n.  See Milreis.  MILLRIND; MILLRYND Mill"rind`, Mill"rynd`, n. Etym: [Mill + rynd.] (Her.)  A figure supposed to represent the iron which holds a millstone by being set into its center.  MILL-SIXPENCE Mill"-sixpence, n.  A milled sixpence; -- the sixpence being one of the first English coins milled (1561). 

MILLSTONE:  One of two circular stones used for grinding grain or other substance. No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge. Deut. xxiv. 6.  Note: The cellular siliceous rock called buhrstone is usually employed for millstones; also, some kinds of lava, as that Niedermendig, or other firm rock with rough texture. The surface of a millstone has usually a series of radial grooves in which the powdered material collects. Millstone girt (Geol.), a hard and coarse, gritty sandstone, dividing the Carboniferous from the Subcarboniferous strata. See Farewell rock, under Farewell, a., and Chart of Geology.  -- To see into, or through, a millstone, to see into or through a difficult matter. (Colloq.) 

MILLWRIGHT:  A mechanic whose occupation is to build mills, or to set up their machinery. 

MILORD:  Lit., my lord; hence (as used on the Continent), an English nobleman or gentleman. 

MILREIS:  A Portuguese money of account rated in the treasury department of the United States at one dollar and eight cents; also, a Brazilian money of account rated at fifty-four cents and six mills. 

MILT:  The spleen. 

MILT:  To impregnate (the roe of a fish) with milt. 

MILTER:  A male fish. 

MILTONIAN:  Miltonic. Lowell. 

MILTONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Milton, or his writings; as, Miltonic prose. 

MILTWASTE:  A small European fern (Asplenium Ceterach) formerly used in medicine. 

MILVINE:  Of or resembling birds of the kite kind. 

MILVINE:  A bird related to the kite. 

MILVUS:  A genus of raptorial birds, including the European kite. 

MIME:  To mimic. [Obs.] -- Mim"er, n. 

MIMEOGRAPH:  An autographic stencil copying device invented by Edison. 

MIMESIS:  Imitation; mimicry. 

MIMETENE:  See Mimetite.  MIMETIC; MIMETICAL Mi*met"ic, Mi*met"ic*al,Etym: [Gr.  1. Apt to imitate; given to mimicry; imitative.  2. (Biol.)  Characterized by mimicry; -- applied to animals and plants; as, mimetic species; mimetic organisms. See Mimicry. 

MIMETISM:  Same as Mimicry. 

MIMETITE:  A mineral occurring in pale yellow or brownish hexagonal crystals. It is an arseniate of lead.  MIMIC; MIMICAL Mim"ic, Mim"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mimicus, Gr. mimique. See Mime.]  1. Imitative; mimetic. Oft, in her absence, mimic fancy wakes To imitate her. Milton. Man is, of all creatures, the most mimical. W. Wotton.  2. Consisting of, or formed by, imitation; imitated; as, mimic gestures. "Mimic hootings." Wordsworth.  3. (Min.)  Imitative; characterized by resemblance to other forms; -- applied to crystals which by twinning resemble simple forms of a higher grade of symmetry.  Note: Mimic often implies something droll or ludicrous, and is less dignified than imitative. Mimic beetle (Zoöl.), a beetle that feigns death when disturbed, esp. the species of Hister and allied genera. 

MIMIC:  One who imitates or mimics, especially one who does so for sport; a copyist; a buffoon. Burke. 

MIMIC:  To assume a resemblance to (some other organism of a totally different nature, or some surrounding object), as a means of protection or advantage.  Syn.  -- To ape; imitate; counterfeit; mock. 

MIMICALLY:  In an imitative manner. 

MIMICKER:  An animal which imitates something else, in form or habits. 

MIMICRY:  Protective resemblance; the resemblance which certain animals and plants exhibit to other animals and plants or to the natural objects among which they live, -- a characteristic which serves as their chief means of protection against enemies; imitation; mimesis; mimetism. 

MIMOGRAPHER:  A writer of mimes. Sir T. Herbert. 

MIMOSA:  A genus of leguminous plants, containing many species, and including the sensitive plants (Mimosa sensitiva, and M. pudica).  Note: The term mimosa is also applied in commerce to several kinds bark imported from Australia, and used in tanning; -- called also wattle bark. Tomlinson. 

MIMOTANNIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a variety of tannin or tannic acid found in Acacia, Mimosa, etc. 

MINA:  An ancient weight or denomination of money, of varying value. The Attic mina was valued at a hundred drachmas. 

MINA:  See Myna. 

MINABLE:  Such as can be mined; as, minable earth. Sir T. North. 

MINACIOUS:  Threatening; menacing. [R.] 

MINACITY:  Disposition to threaten. [R.] 

MINARET:  A slender, lofty tower attached to a mosque and surrounded by one or more projecting balconies, from which the summon to prayer is cried by the muezzin. 

MINARGENT:  An alloy consisting of copper, nickel, tungsten, and aluminium; -- used by jewelers.  MINATORIALLY; MINATORILY Min`a*to"ri*al*ly, Min"a*to*ri*ly, adv.  In a minatory manner; with threats. 

MINATORY:  Threatening; menacing. Bacon. 

MINAUL:  Same as Manul. 

MINCE:  A short, precise step; an affected manner.  MINCE-MEAT Mince"-meat`, n.  Minced meat; meat chopped very fine; a mixture of boiled meat, suet, apples, etc., chopped very fine, to which spices and raisins are added; -- used in making mince pie.  MINCE PIE Mince" pie`.  A pie made of mince-meat. 

MINCER:  One who minces. 

MINCING:  That minces; characterized by primness or affected nicety. 

MINCINGLY:  In a mincing manner; not fully; with affected nicety. 

MIND:  To give attention or heed; to obey; as, the dog minds well. 

MINDED:  Disposed; inclined; having a mind. Joseph... was minded to put her away privily. Matt. i. 19. If men were minded to live virtuously. Tillotson.  Note: Minded is much used in composition; as, high-minded, feeble- minded, sober-minded, double-minded. 

MINDFUL:  Bearing in mind; regardful; attentive; heedful; observant. What is man, that thou art mindful of him Ps. viii. 4. I promise you to be mindful of your admonitions. Hammond. -- Mind"ful*ly, adv.  -- Mind"ful*ness, n. 

MINDING:  Regard; mindfulness. 

MINE:  See Mien. [Obs.] 

MINE:  Belonging to me; my. Used as a pronominal to me; my. Used as a pronominal adjective in the predicate; as, "Vengeance is mine; I will repay." Rom. xii. 19. Also, in the old style, used attributively, instead of my, before a noun beginning with a vowel. I kept myself from mine iniquity. Ps. xviii. 23.  Note: Mine is often used absolutely, the thing possessed being understood; as, his son is in the army, mine in the navy. When a man deceives me once, says the Italian proverb, it is his fault; when twice, it is mine. Bp. Horne. This title honors me and mine. Shak. She shall have me and mine. Shak. 

MINERALIST:  One versed in minerals; mineralogist. [R.] 

MINERALIZATION:  The conversion of a cell wall into a material of a stony nature. 

MINERALIZE:  To go on an excursion for observing and collecting minerals; to mineralogize. 

MINERALIZER:  An element which is combined with a metal, thus forming an ore. Thus, in galena, or lead ore, sulphur is a mineralizer; in hematite, oxygen is a mineralizer. 

MINERALOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to mineralogy; as, a mineralogical table. 

MINERALOGICALLY:  According to the principles of, or with reference to, mineralogy. 

MINERALOGIST:  A carrier shell (Phorus). 

MINERALOGIZE:  To study mineralogy by collecting and examining minerals. Miss Edgeworth. 

MINERVA:  The goddess of wisdom, of war, of the arts and sciences, of poetry, and of spinning and weaving; -- identified with the Grecian Pallas Athene. 

MINETTE:  The smallest of regular sizes of portrait photographs. 

MINEVER:  Same as Miniver. 

MINGE:  To mingle; to mix. [Obs.] 

MINGE:  A small biting fly; a midge. [Local, U. S.] 

MINGLE:  To become mixed or blended. 

MINGLE:  A mixture. [Obs.] Dryden. 

MINGLEABLE:  That can be mingled. Boyle. 

MINGLEDLY:  Confusedly.  MINGLE-MANGLE Min"gle-man`gle, v. t. Etym: [Reduplicated fr. mingle.]  To mix in a disorderly way; to make a mess of. [Obs.] Udall.  MINGLE-MANGLE Min"gle-man`gle, n.  A hotchpotch. [Obs.] Latimer. 

MINGLEMENT:  The act of mingling, or the state of being mixed. 

MINGLER:  One who mingles. 

MINGLINGLY:  In a mingling manner.  MINIACEOUS; MINACEOUS Min`i*a"ceous, a.  Of the color of minium or red lead; miniate. 

MINIARD:  Migniard. [Obs.] 

MINIARDIZE:  To render delicate or dainty. [Obs.] Howell. 

MINIATE:  To paint or tinge with red lead or vermilion; also, to decorate with letters, or the like, painted red, as the page of a manuscript. T. Wharton. 

MINIATE:  Of or pertaining to the color of red lead or vermilion; painted with vermilion. 

MINIATURE:  Being on a small; much reduced from the reality; as, a miniature copy. 

MINIATURE:  To represent or depict in a small compass, or on a small scale. 

MINIATURIST:  A painter of miniatures. 

MINIBUS:  A kind of light passenger vehicle, carrying four persons.  MINIE BALL Min"ie ball`. Etym: [From the inventor, Captain Minié, of France.]  A conical rifle bullet, with a cavity in its base plugged with a piece of iron, which, by the explosion of the charge, is driven farther in, expanding the sides to fit closely the grooves of the barrel.  MINIE RIFLE Min"ie ri"fle.  A rifle adapted to minie balls. 

MINIKIN:  Small; diminutive. Shak. 

MINIM:  A small fish; a minnow. [Prov. Eng.]  4. A little man or being; a dwarf. [Obs.] Milton.  5. (Eccl. Hist.)  One of an austere order of mendicant hermits of friars founded in the 15th century by St. Francis of Paola.  6. (Mus.)  A time note, formerly the shortest in use; a half note, equal to half a semibreve, or two quarter notes or crotchets.  7. A short poetical encomium. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MINIM:  Minute. "Minim forms." J. R. Drake. 

MINIMAL:  Of, pertaining to, or having a character of, a minim or minimum; least; smallest; as, a minimal amount or value. 

MINIMENT:  A trifle; a trinket; a token. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MINIMIZATION:  The act or process of minimizing. Bentham. 

MINIMIZE:  To reduce to the smallest part or proportion possible; to reduce to a minimum. Bentham. 

MINIMUM:  The least quantity assignable, admissible, or possible, in a given case; hence, a thing of small consequence; -- opposed to Ant: maximum.  MINIMUM THERMOMETER Minimum thermometer  , a thermometer for recording the lowest temperature since its last adjustment. 

MINIMUS:  The little finger; the fifth digit, or that corresponding to it, in either the manus or pes. 

MINING:  The act or business of making mines or of working them. 

MINING:  Of or pertaining to mines; as, mining engineer; mining machinery; a mining region. Mining engineering. See the Note under Engineering. 

MINION:  Minimum. [Obs.] Burton. 

MINION:  A small kind of type, in size between brevier and nonpareil. This line is printed in minion type.  4. An ancient form of ordnance, the caliber of which was about three inches. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

MINION:  Fine; trim; dainty. [Obs.] "Their... minion dancing." Fryth. 

MINIONETTE:  Small; delicate. [Obs.] "His minionette face." Walpole. 

MINIONETTE:  A size of type between nonpareil and minion; -- used in ornamental borders, etc. 

MINIONING:  Kind treatment. [Obs.] 

MINIONIZE:  To flavor. [Obs.]  MINIONLIKE; MINIONLY Min"ion*like`, Min"ion*ly, a. & adv.  Like a minion; daintily. Camden. 

MINIONSHIP:  State of being a minion. [R.] 

MINIOUS:  Of the color of red or vermilion. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

MINISH:  To diminish; to lessen. The living of poor men thereby minished. Latimer. 

MINISHMENT:  The act of diminishing, or the state of being diminished; diminution. [Obs.] 

MINISTER:  To furnish or apply; to afford; to supply; to administer. He that ministereth seed to the sower. 2 Cor. ix. 10. We minister to God reason to suspect us. Jer. Taylor. 

MINISTERIALIST:  A supporter of the ministers, or the party in power. 

MINISTERIALLY:  In a ministerial manner; in the character or capacity of a minister. 

MINISTERY:  See Ministry. Milton. 

MINISTRACY:  Ministration. [Obs.] 

MINISTRAL:  Ministerial. [Obs.] Johnson. 

MINISTRANT:  Performing service as a minister; attendant on service; acting under command; subordinate. "Princedoms and dominations ministrant." Milton.  -- n.  One who ministers. 

MINISTRATION:  The act of ministering; service; ministry. "The days of his ministration." Luke i. 23. 

MINISTRATIVE:  Serving to aid; ministering. 

MINISTRESS:  A woman who ministers. Akenside. 

MINISTRYSHIP:  The office of a minister. Swift. 

MINIUM:  A heavy, brilliant red pigment, consisting of an oxide of lead, Pb3O4, obtained by exposing lead or massicot to a gentle and continued heat in the air. It is used as a cement, as a paint, and in the manufacture of flint glass. Called also red lead. 

MINIVER:  A fur esteemed in the Middle Ages as a part of costume. It is uncertain whether it was the fur of one animal only or of different animals. 

MINIVET:  A singing bird of India of the family Campephagidæ. 

MINK:  A carnivorous mammal of the genus Putorius, allied to the weasel. The European mink is Putorius lutreola. The common American mink (P. vison) varies from yellowish brown to black. Its fur is highly valued. Called also minx, nurik, and vison. 

MINNESINGER:  A love-singer; specifically, one of a class of German poets and musicians who flourished from about the middle of the twelfth to the middle of the fourteenth century. They were chiefly of noble birth, and made love and beauty the subjects of their verses. 

MINNOW:  A small European fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Phoxinus lævis, formerly Leuciscus phoxinus); sometimes applied also to the young of larger kinds; -- called also minim and minny. The name is also applied to several allied American species, of the genera Phoxinus, Notropis, or Minnilus, and Rhinichthys.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any of numerous small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus, and related genera. They live both in fresh and in salt water. Called also killifish, minny, and mummichog.mummichog 

MINNY:  A minnow.  MINO BIRD Mi"no bird". Etym: [Hind. maina.] (Zoöl.)  An Asiatic bird (Gracula musica), allied to the starlings. It is black, with a white spot on the wings, and a pair of flat yellow wattles on the head. It is often tamed and taught to pronounce words. 

MINOR:  Less by a semitone in interval or difference of pitch; as, a minor third. Asia Minor (Geog.), the Lesser Asia; that part of Asia which lies between the Euxine, or Black Sea, on the north, and the Mediterranean on the south.  -- Minor mode (Mus.), that mode, or scale, in which the third and sixth are minor, -- much used for mournful and solemn subjects.  -- Minor orders (Eccl.), the rank of persons employed in ecclesiastical offices who are not in holy orders, as doorkeepers, acolytes, etc.  -- Minor scale (Mus.) The form of the minor scale is various. The strictly correct form has the third and sixth minor, with a semitone between the seventh and eighth, which involves an augmented second interval, or three semitones, between the sixth and seventh, as, 6/F, 7/G#, 8/A. But, for melodic purposes, both the sixth and the seventh are sometimes made major in the ascending, and minor in the descending, scale, thus: --See Major.  -- Minor term of syllogism (Logic), the subject of the conclusion. 

MINOR:  The minor term, that is, the subject of the conclusion; also, the minor premise, that is, that premise which contains the minor term; in hypothetical syllogisms, the categorical premise. It is the second proposition of a regular syllogism, as in the following: Every act of injustice partakes of meanness; to take money from another by gaming is an act of injustice; therefore, the taking of money from another by gaming partakes of meanness.  3. A Minorite; a Franciscan friar. 

MINORAT:  A custom or right, analogous to borough-English in England, formerly existing in various parts of Europe, and surviving in parts of Germany and Austria, by which certain entailed estates, as a homestead and adjacent land, descend to the youngest male heir. 

MINORATE:  To diminish. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

MINORATION:  A diminution. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

MINORESS:  See Franciscan Nuns, under Franciscan, a. 

MINORITE:  A Franciscan friar. 

MINOS:  A king and lawgiver of Crete, fabled to be the son of Jupiter and Europa. After death he was made a judge in the Lower Regions. 

MINOTAUR:  A fabled monster, half man and half bull, confined in the labyrinth constructed by Dædalus in Crete. 

MINOW:  See Minnow. 

MINSTER:  A church of a monastery. The name is often retained and applied to the church after the monastery has ceased to exist (as Beverly Minster, Southwell Minster, etc.), and is also improperly used for any large church. Minster house, the official house in which the canons of a cathedral live in common or in rotation. Shipley. 

MINSTREL:  In the Middle Ages, one of an order of men who subsisted by the arts of poetry and music, and sang verses to the accompaniment of a harp or other instrument; in modern times, a poet; a bard; a singer and harper; a musician. Chaucer. 

MINT:  The name of several aromatic labiate plants, mostly of the genus Mentha, yielding odoriferous essential oils by distillation. See Mentha.  Note: Corn mint is Mentha arvensis.  -- Horsemint is M. sylvestris, and in the United States Monarda punctata, which differs from the true mints in several respects.  -- Mountain mint is any species of the related genus Pycnanthemum, common in North America.  -- Peppermint is M. piperita.  -- Spearmint is M. viridis.  -- Water mint is M. aquatica. Mint camphor. (Chem.) See Menthol.  -- Mint julep. See Julep.  -- Mint sauce, a sauce flavored with spearmint, for meats. 

MINTER:  One who mints. 

MINTMAN:  One skilled in coining, or in coins; a coiner.  MINT-MASTER Mint"-mas`ter, n.  The master or superintendent of a mint. Also used figuratively.  MINT SAUCE Mint sauce.  1. A sauce of vinegar and sugar flavored with spearmint leaves.  2.  Money. [Slang, Eng.] 

MINUEND:  The number from which another number is to be subtracted. 

MINUET:  A tune or air to regulate the movements of the dance so called; a movement in suites, sonatas, symphonies, etc., having the dance form, and commonly in 3-4, sometimes 3-8, measure. 

MINUM:  A minim. 

MINUS:  Less; requiring to be subtracted; negative; as, a minus quantity. Minus sign (Math.), the sign [-] denoting minus, or less, prefixed to negative quantities, or quantities to be subtracted. See Negative sign, under Negative. 

MINUSCULE:  Of the size and style of minuscules; written in minuscules. These minuscule letters are cursive forms of the earlier uncials. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 

MINUTARY:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, minutes. [Obs.] Fuller. 

MINUTE:  A fixed part of a module. See Module.  Note: Different writers take as the minute one twelfth, one eighteenth, one thirtieth, or one sixtieth part of the module. 

MINUTE:  Of or pertaining to a minute or minutes; occurring at or marking successive minutes. Minute bell, a bell tolled at intervals of a minute, as to give notice of a death or a funeral.  -- Minute book, a book in which written minutes are entered.  -- Minute glass, a glass measuring a minute or minutes by the running of sand.  -- Minute gun, a discharge of a cannon repeated every minute as a sign of distress or mourning.  -- Minute hand, the long hand of a watch or clock, which makes the circuit of the dial in an hour, and marks the minutes. 

MINUTE:  To set down a short sketch or note of; to jot down; to make a minute or a brief summary of. The Empress of Russia, with her own hand, minuted an edict for universal tolerance. Bancroft. 

MINUTELY:  In a minute manner; with minuteness; exactly; nicely. 

MINUTELY:  Happening every minute; continuing; unceasing. [Obs.] Throwing themselves absolutely upon God's minutely providence. Hammond. 

MINUTELY:  At intervals of a minute; very often and regularly. J. Philips. Minutely proclaimed in thunder from heaven. Hammond. 

MINUTEMAN:  A militiaman who was to be ready to march at a moment's notice; -- a term used in the American Revolution. 

MINUTENESS:  The quality of being minute. 

MINUTIA:  A minute particular; a small or minor detail; -- used chiefly in the plural. 

MINX:  The mink; -- called also minx otter. [Obs.] 

MINY:  Abounding with mines; like a mine. "Miny caverns." Thomson. 

MINYAN:  A quorum, or number necessary, for conducting public worship. 

MIOCENE:  Of or pertaining to the middle division of the Tertiary.  -- n.  The Miocene period. See Chart of Geology. 

MIOHIPPUS:  An extinct Miocene mammal of the Horse family, closely related to the genus Anhithecrium, and having three usable hoofs on each foot. 

MIQUELET:  An irregular or partisan soldier; a bandit. 

MIR:  A Russian village community. D. M. Wallace. 

MIR:  Same as Emir. 

MIRA:  A remarkable variable star in the constellation Cetus (o Ceti). 

MIRABILARY:  One who, or a work which, narrates wonderful things; one who writes of wonders. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MIRABILIS:  A genus of plants. See Four-o'clock. 

MIRABILITE:  Native sodium sulphate; Glauber's salt. 

MIRABLE:  Wonderful; admirable. [Obs.] Shak. 

MIRACLE:  To make wonderful. [Obs.] Shak. 

MIRACULIZE:  To cause to seem to be a miracle. [R.] Shaftesbury. 

MIRADOR:  Same as Belvedere. 

MIRAGE:  An optical effect, sometimes seen on the ocean, but more frequently in deserts, due to total reflection of light at the surface common to two strata of air differently heated. The reflected image is seen, commonly in an inverted position, while the real object may or may not be in sight. When the surface is horizontal, and below the eye, the appearance is that of a sheet of water in which the object is seen reflected; when the reflecting surface is above the eye, the image is seen projected against the sky. The fata Morgana and looming are species of mirage. By the mirage uplifted the land floats vague in the ether, Ships and the shadows of ships hang in the motionless air. Longfellow. 

MIRBANE:  See Nitrobenzene. 

MIRE:  An ant. [Obs.] See Pismire. 

MIRE:  Deep mud; wet, spongy earth. Chaucer. He his rider from the lofty steed Would have cast down and trod in dirty mire. Spenser. Mire crow (Zoöl.), the pewit, or laughing gull. [Prov. Eng.] -- Mire drum, the European bittern. [Prov. Eng.] 

MIRE:  To stick in mire. Shak.  MIRIFIC; MIRIFICAL Mi*rif"ic, Mi*rif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mirificus; mirus wonderful + - ficare (in comp.) to make. See -fy.]  Working wonders; wonderful. 

MIRIFICENT:  Wonderful. [Obs.] 

MIRINESS:  The quality of being miry. 

MIRK:  Dark; gloomy; murky. Spenser. Mrs. Browning. 

MIRK:  Darkness; gloom; murk. "In mirk and mire." Longfellow. 

MIRKSOME:  Dark; gloomy; murky. [Archaic] Spenser.  -- Mirk"some*ness, n. [Archaic] 

MIRKY:  Dark; gloomy. See Murky. 

MIRLITON:  A kind of musical toy into which one sings, hums, or speaks, producing a coarse, reedy sound.  Trilby singing "Ben Bolt" into a mirliton was a thing to be remembered, whether one would or no! Du Maurier. 

MIRROR:  See Speculum. Mirror carp (Zoöl.), a domesticated variety of the carp, having only three or fur rows of very large scales side.  -- Mirror plate. (a) A flat glass mirror without a frame. (b) Flat glass used for making mirrors.  -- Mirror writing, a manner or form of backward writing, making manuscript resembling in slant and order of letters the reflection of ordinary writing in a mirror. The substitution of this manner of writing for the common manner is a symptom of some kinds of nervous disease. 

MIRROR:  To reflect, as in a mirror. 

MIRRORSCOPE:  See Projector, below. 

MIRTHLESS:  Without mirth.  -- Mirth"less*ness, n. 

MIRY:  Abounding with deep mud; full of mire; muddy; as, a miry road. 

MIRYACHIT:  A nervous disease in which the patient involuntarily imitates the words or action of another. 

MIRZA:  The common title of honor in Persia, prefixed to the surname of an individual. When appended to the surname, it signifies Prince.  MIS- Mis-. Etym: [In words of Teutonic origin, fr. AS. mis-; akin to D. mis-, G. miss-, OHG. missa-, missi-, Icel. & Dan. mis-, Sw. miss-, Goth. missa-; orig., a p. p. from the root of G. meiden to shun, OHG. midan, AS. mi (Miss to fail of). In words from the French, fr. OF. mes-, F. mé-, mes-, fr. L. minus less (see Minus). In present usage these two prefixes are commonly confounded.]  A prefix used adjectively and adverbially in the sense of amiss, wrong, ill, wrongly, unsuitably; as, misdeed, mislead, mischief, miscreant. 

MIS:  Wrong; amiss. [Obs.] "To correcten that [which] is mis." Chaucer. 

MISACCEPTATION:  Wrong acceptation; understanding in a wrong sense. 

MISACCOMPT:  To account or reckon wrongly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISADJUST:  To adjust wrongly of unsuitably; to throw of adjustment. I. Taylor. 

MISADJUSTMENT:  Wrong adjustment; unsuitable arrangement. 

MISADVENTURE:  Mischance; misfortune; ill lick; unlucky accident; ill adventure. Chaucer. Homicide by misadventure (Law), homicide which occurs when a man, doing a lawful act, without any intention of injury, unfortunately kills another; -- called also excusable homicide. See Homicide. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- Mischance; mishap; misfortune; disaster; calamity. 

MISADVENTURED:  Unfortunate. [Obs.] 

MISADVENTUROUS:  Unfortunate. 

MISADVERTENCE:  Inadvertence. 

MISADVICE:  Bad advice. 

MISADVISE:  To give bad counsel to. 

MISADVISED:  Ill advised.  -- Mis`ad*vis"ed*ly, adv. 

MISAFFECT:  To dislike. [Obs.] 

MISAFFECTED:  Ill disposed. [Obs.] 

MISAFFECTION:  An evil or wrong affection; the state of being ill affected. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

MISAFFIRM:  To affirm incorrectly. 

MISAIMED:  Not rightly aimed. Spenser. 

MISALLEGATION:  A erroneous statement or allegation. Bp. Hall. 

MISALLEGE:  To state erroneously. 

MISALLIANCE:  A marriage with a person of inferior rank or social station; an improper alliance; a mesalliance. A Leigh had made a misalliance, and blushed A Howard should know it. Mrs. Browning. 

MISALLIED:  Wrongly allied or associated. 

MISALLOTMENT:  A wrong allotment. 

MISALTER:  To alter wrongly; esp., to alter for the worse. Bp. Hall. 

MISANTHROPE:  A hater of mankind; a misanthropist.  MISANTHROPIC; MISANTHROPICAL Mis`an*throp"ic, Mis`an*throp"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. misanthropique.]  Hating or disliking mankind. 

MISANTHROPIST:  A misanthrope. 

MISANTHROPOS:  A misanthrope. [Obs.] Shak. 

MISANTHROPY:  Hatred of, or dislike to, mankind; -- opposed to philanthropy. Orrery. 

MISAPPLICATION:  A wrong application. Sir T. Browne. 

MISAPPLY:  To apply wrongly; to use for a wrong purpose; as, to misapply a name or title; to misapply public money. 

MISAPPRECIATED:  Improperly appreciated. 

MISAPPREHEND:  To take in a wrong sense; to misunderstand. Locke. 

MISAPPREHENSION:  A mistaking or mistake; wrong apprehension of one's meaning of a fact; misconception; misunderstanding. 

MISAPPREHENSIVELY:  By, or with, misapprehension. 

MISAPPROPRIATE:  To appropriate wrongly; to use for a wrong purpose. 

MISAPPROPRIATION:  Wrong appropriation; wrongful use. 

MISARRANGE:  To place in a wrong order, or improper manner. 

MISARRANGEMENT:  Wrong arrangement. 

MISASCRIBE:  To ascribe wrongly. 

MISASSAY:  To assay, or attempt, improperly or unsuccessfully. [Obs.] W. Browne. 

MISASSIGN:  To assign wrongly. 

MISATTEND:  To misunderstand; to disregard. [Obs.] Milton. 

MISAVENTURE:  Misadventure. [Obs.] 

MISAVIZE:  To misadvise. [Obs.] 

MISBEAR:  To carry improperly; to carry (one's self) wrongly; to misbehave. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISBECOME:  Not to become; to suit ill; not to befit or be adapted to. Macaulay. Thy father will not act what misbecomes him. Addison. 

MISBECOMING:  Unbecoming. Milton.  -- Mis`be*com"ing*ly, adv.  -- Mis`be*com"ing*ness, n. Boyle. 

MISBEDE:  To wrong; to do injury to. [Obs.] Who hath you misboden or offended Chaucer. 

MISBEFITTING:  No befitting.  MISBEGOT; MISBEGOTTEN Mis`be*got", Mis`be*got"ten (, p. a.  Unlawfully or irregularly begotten; of bad origin; pernicious. "Valor misbegot." Shak. 

MISBEHAVE:  To behave ill; to conduct one's self improperly; -- often used with a reciprocal pronoun. 

MISBEHAVED:  Guilty of ill behavior; illbred; rude. "A misbehaved and sullen wench." Shak. 

MISBEHAVIOR:  Improper, rude, or uncivil behavior; ill conduct. Addison. 

MISBELIEF:  Erroneous or false belief. 

MISBELIEVE:  To believe erroneously, or in a false religion. "That misbelieving Moor." Shak. 

MISBELIEVER:  One who believes wrongly; one who holds a false religion. Shak. 

MISBESEEM:  To suit ill. 

MISBESTOW:  To bestow improperly. 

MISBESTOWAL:  The act of misbestowing. 

MISBILEVE:  Misbelief; unbelief; suspicion. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISBODE:  of Misbede. 

MISBODEN:  of Misbede. 

MISBORN:  Born to misfortune. Spenser. 

MISCALCULATE:  To calculate erroneously; to judge wrongly.  -- Mis*cal`cu*la"tion, n. 

MISCARRIAGEABLE:  Capable of miscarrying; liable to fail. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

MISCAST:  To cast or reckon wrongly. 

MISCAST:  An erroneous cast or reckoning. 

MISCEGENATION:  A mixing of races; amalgamation, as by intermarriage of black and white. 

MISCELLANARIAN:  Of or pertaining to miscellanies. Shaftesbury.  -- n.  A writer of miscellanies. 

MISCELLANE:  A mixture of two or more sorts of grain; -- now called maslin and meslin. Bacon. 

MISCELLANEA:  A collection of miscellaneous matters; matters of various kinds. 

MISCELLANEOUS:  Mixed; mingled; consisting of several things; of diverse sorts; promiscuous; heterogeneous; as, a miscellaneous collection. "A miscellaneous rabble." Milton.  -- Mis`cel*la"ne*ous*ly, adv.  -- Mis`cel*la"ne*ous*ness, n. 

MISCELLANIST:  A writer of miscellanies; miscellanarian. 

MISCELLANY:  A mass or mixture of various things; a medley; esp., a collection of compositions on various subjects. 'T is but a bundle or miscellany of sin; sins original, and sins actual. Hewyt. Miscellany madam, a woman who dealt in various fineries; a milliner. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

MISCELLANY:  Miscellaneous; heterogeneous. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MISCENSURE:  To misjudge. [Obs.] Daniel.  -- n.  Erroneous judgment. [Obs.] Sylvester. 

MISCHANCE:  Ill luck; ill fortune; mishap. Chaucer. Never come mischance between us twain. Shak.  Syn.  -- Calamity; misfortune; misadventure; mishap; infelicity; disaster. See Calamity. 

MISCHANCE:  To happen by mischance. Spenser. 

MISCHANCEFUL:  Unlucky. R. Browning. 

MISCHARACTERIZE:  To characterize falsely or erroneously; to give a wrong character to. They totally mischaracterize the action. Eton. 

MISCHARGE:  To charge erroneously, as in account.  -- n.  A mistake in charging. 

MISCHIEF:  To do harm to. [Obs.] Milton. 

MISCHIEFABLE:  Mischievous. [R.] Lydgate. 

MISCHIEFFUL:  Mischievous. [Obs.] Foote.  MISCHIEF-MAKER Mis"chief-mak`er, n.  One who makes mischief; one who excites or instigates quarrels or enmity.  MISCHIEF-MAKING Mis"chief-mak`ing, a.  Causing harm; exciting enmity or quarrels. Rowe.  -- n.  The act or practice of making mischief, inciting quarrels, etc. 

MISCHIEVOUS:  Causing mischief; harmful; hurtful; -- now often applied where the evil is done carelessly or in sport; as, a mischievous child. "Most mischievous foul sin." Shak. This false, wily, doubling disposition is intolerably mischievous to society. South.  Syn.  -- Harmful; hurtful; detrimental; noxious; pernicious; destructive.  -- Mis"chie*vous*ly, adv.  -- Mis"chie*vous*ness, n. 

MISCHNA:  See Mishna. 

MISCHNIC:  See Mishnic. 

MISCHOOSE:  To choose wrongly. Milton. 

MISCHOOSE:  To make a wrong choice. 

MISCHRISTEN:  To christen wrongly. 

MISCIBILITY:  Capability of being mixed. 

MISCIBLE:  Capable of being mixed; mixable; as, water and alcohol are miscible in all proportions. Burke. 

MISCITATION:  Erroneous citation. 

MISCITE:  To cite erroneously. 

MISCLAIM:  A mistaken claim. 

MISCOGNIZANT:  Not cognizant; ignorant; not knowing. 

MISCOGNIZE:  To fail to apprehend; to misunderstand. [Obs.] Holland. 

MISCOLLOCATION:  Wrong collocation. De Quincey. 

MISCOLOR:  To give a wrong color to; figuratively, to set forth erroneously or unfairly; as, to miscolor facts. C. Kingsley. 

MISCOMFORT:  Discomfort. [Obs.] 

MISCOMPREHEND:  To get a wrong idea of or about; to misunderstand. 

MISCOMPUTATION:  Erroneous computation; false reckoning. 

MISCOMPUTE:  To compute erroneously. Sir T. Browne. 

MISCONCEIT:  Misconception. [Obs.] 

MISCONCEIVE:  To conceive wrongly; to interpret incorrectly; to receive a false notion of; to misjudge; to misapprehend. Those things which, for want of due consideration heretofore, they have misconceived. Hooker.  Syn.  -- To misapprehend; misunderstand; mistake. 

MISCONCEIVER:  One who misconceives. 

MISCONCEPTION:  Erroneous conception; false opinion; wrong understanding. Harvey. 

MISCONCLUSION:  An erroneous inference or conclusion. Bp. Hall. 

MISCONDUCT:  Wrong conduct; bad behavior; mismanagement. Addison.  Syn.  -- Misbehavior; misdemeanor; mismanagement; misdeed; delinquency; offense. 

MISCONDUCT:  To conduct amiss; to mismanage. Johnson. To misconduct one's self, to behave improperly. 

MISCONDUCT:  To behave amiss. 

MISCONFIDENT:  Having a mistaken confidence; wrongly trusting. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

MISCONJECTURE:  A wrong conjecture or guess. Sir T. Browne. 

MISCONJECTURE:  To conjecture wrongly. 

MISCONSECRATE:  To consecrate amiss. "Misconsecrated flags." Bp. Hall. 

MISCONSECRATION:  Wrong consecration. 

MISCONSEQUENCE:  A wrong consequence; a false deduction. 

MISCONSTRUABLE:  Such as can be misconstrued, as language or conduct. R. North. 

MISCONSTRUCT:  To construct wrongly; to construe or interpret erroneously. 

MISCONSTRUCTION:  Erroneous construction; wrong interpretation. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

MISCONSTRUE:  To construe wrongly; to interpret erroneously. Do not, great sir, misconstrue his intent. Dryden. Much afflicted to find his actions misconstrued. Addison. 

MISCONSTRUER:  One who misconstrues. 

MISCONTENT:  Discontent. [Obs.] 

MISCONTINUANCE:  Discontinuance; also, continuance by undue process. 

MISCOPY:  To copy amiss. 

MISCOPY:  A mistake in copying. North Am. Rev. 

MISCORRECT:  To fail or err in attempting to correct. "Scaliger miscorrects his author." Dryden. 

MISCOUNSEL:  To counsel or advise wrongly. 

MISCOUNT:  To count erroneously. 

MISCOUNT:  An erroneous counting. 

MISCOVET:  To covet wrongfully. [Obs.]  MISCREANCE; MISCREANCY Mis"cre*ance, Mis"cre*an*cy, n. Etym: [OF. mescreance, F. mécréance incredulity.]  The quality of being miscreant; adherence to a false religion; false faith. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

MISCREATE:  Miscreated; illegitimate; forged; as, miscreate titles. [Obs. or Poet.] Shak. 

MISCREATE:  To create badly or amiss. 

MISCREATED:  Formed unnaturally or illegitimately; deformed. Spenser. Milton. 

MISCREATIVE:  Creating amiss. [R.] 

MISCREDENT:  A miscreant, or believer in a false religious doctrine. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

MISCREDULITY:  Wrong credulity or belief; misbelief. Bp. Hall. 

MISCUE:  A false stroke with a billiard cue, the cue slipping from the ball struck without impelling it as desired. 

MISDATE:  To date erroneously. Young. 

MISDEAL:  To deal or distribute wrongly, as cards; to make a wrong distribution. 

MISDEAL:  The act of misdealing; a wrong distribution of cards to the players. 

MISDEED:  An evil deed; a wicked action. Evils which our own misdeeds have wrought. Milton.  Syn.  -- Misconduct; misdemeanor; fault; offense; trespass; transgression; crime. 

MISDEEM:  To misjudge. [Obs.] Milton. 

MISDEMEAN:  To behave ill; -- with a reflexive pronoun; as, to misdemean one's self. 

MISDEMEANANT:  One guilty of a misdemeanor. Sydney Smith. 

MISDEMEANOR:  A crime less than a felony. Wharton.  Note: As a rule, in the old English law, offenses capitally punishable were felonies; all other indictable offenses were misdemeanors. In common usage, the word crime is employed to denote the offenses of a deeper and more atrocious dye, while small faults and omissions of less consequence are comprised under the gentler name of misdemeanors. Blackstone. The distinction, however, between felonies and misdemeanors is purely arbitrary, and is in most jurisdictions either abrogated or so far reduced as to be without practical value. Cf. Felony. Wharton.  Syn.  -- Misdeed; misconduct; misbehavior; fault; trespass; transgression. 

MISDEMPT:  of Misdeem. Spenser. 

MISDEPART:  To distribute wrongly. [Obs.] He misdeparteth riches temporal. Chaucer. 

MISDESCRIBE:  To describe wrongly. 

MISDESERT:  Ill desert. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MISDEVOTION:  Mistaken devotion. 

MISDIET:  Improper. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MISDIET:  To diet improperly. 

MISDIGHT:  Arrayed, prepared, or furnished, unsuitably. [Archaic] Bp. Hall. 

MISDIRECT:  To give a wrong direction to; as, to misdirect a passenger, or a letter; to misdirect one's energies. Shenstone. 

MISDIRECTION:  An error of a judge in charging the jury on a matter of law. Mozley & W. 

MISDISPOSITION:  Erroneous disposal or application. Bp. Hall. 

MISDISTINGUISH:  To make wrong distinctions in or concerning. Hooker. 

MISDIVIDE:  To divide wrongly. 

MISDIVISION:  Wrong division. 

MISDO:  To do wrong; to commit a fault. I have misdone, and I endure the smart. Dryden. 

MISDOER:  A wrongdoer. Spenser. 

MISDOING:  A wrong done; a fault or crime; an offense; as, it was my misdoing. 

MISDOUBT:  To be suspicious of; to have suspicion. [Obs.] I do not misdoubt my wife. Shak. 

MISDOUBTFUL:  Misgiving; hesitating. [Obs.] "Her misdoubtful mind." Spenser. 

MISDREAD:  Dread of evil. [Obs.] 

MISE:  The issue in a writ of right.  2. Expense; cost; disbursement. [Obs.]  3. A tax or tallage; in Wales, an honorary gift of the people to a new king or prince of Wales; also, a tribute paid, in the country palatine of Chester, England, at the change of the owner of the earldom. [Obs.] 

MISEASE:  Want of ease; discomfort; misery. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISEASED:  Having discomfort or misery; troubled. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISEASY:  Not easy; painful. [Obs.] 

MISEDITION:  An incorrect or spurious edition. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

MISEDUCATE:  To educate in a wrong manner. 

MISEMPLOY:  To employ amiss; as, to misemploy time, advantages, talents, etc. Their frugal father's gains they misemploy. Dryden. 

MISEMPLOYMENT:  Wrong or mistaken employment. Johnson. 

MISENTER:  To enter or insert wrongly, as a charge in an account. 

MISENTREAT:  To treat wrongfully. [Obs.] Grafton. 

MISENTRY:  An erroneous entry or charge, as of an account. 

MISERABLE:  A miserable person. [Obs.] Sterne. 

MISERABLENESS:  The state or quality of being miserable. 

MISERABLY:  In a miserable; unhappily; calamitously; wretchedly; meanly. They were miserably entertained. Sir P. Sidney. The fifth was miserably stabbed to death. South. 

MISERATION:  Commiseration. [Obs.] 

MISERERE:  The psalm usually appointed for penitential acts, being the 50th psalm in the Latin version. It commences with the word miserere.  2. A musical composition adapted to the 50th psalm. Where only the wind signs miserere. Lowell.  3. (Arch.)  A small projecting boss or bracket, on the under side of the hinged seat of a church stall (see Stall). It was intended, the seat being turned up, to give some support to a worshiper when standing. Called also misericordia.  4. (Med.)  Same as Ileus. 

MISERICORDE:  Same as Misericordia, 2. 

MISERICORDIA:  An amercement. Burrill.  2. (Anc. Armor.)  A thin-bladed dagger; so called, in the Middle Ages, because used to give the death wound or "mercy" stroke to a fallen adversary.  3. (Eccl.)  An indulgence as to food or dress granted to a member of a religious order. Shipley. 

MISERLY:  Like a miser; very covetous; sordid; niggardly.  Syn.  -- Avaricious; niggardly; sordid; parsimonious; penurious; covetous; stingy; mean. See Avaricious. 

MISESTEEM:  Want of esteem; disrespect. Johnson. 

MISESTIMATE:  To estimate erroneously. J. S. Mill. 

MISEXPLANATION:  An erroneous explanation. 

MISEXPLICATION:  Wrong explication. 

MISEXPOSITION:  Wrong exposition. 

MISEXPOUND:  To expound erroneously. 

MISEXPRESSION:  Wrong expression. 

MISFAITH:  Want of faith; distrust. "[Anger] born of your misfaith." Tennyson. 

MISFALL:  To befall, as ill luck; to happen to unluckily. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISFARE:  To fare ill. [Obs.] -- n.  Misfortune. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MISFASHION:  To form wrongly. 

MISFEASANCE:  A trespass; a wrong done; the improper doing of an act which a person might lawfully do. Bouvier. Wharton. 

MISFEATURE:  Ill feature. [R.] Keats. 

MISFEELING:  Insensate. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

MISFEIGN:  To feign with an evil design. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MISFORM:  To make in an ill form. Spenser. 

MISFORMATION:  Malformation. 

MISFORTUNATE:  Producing misfortune. [Obs.] 

MISFORTUNE:  Bad fortune or luck; calamity; an evil accident; disaster; mishap; mischance. Consider why the change was wrought, You 'll find his misfortune, not his fault. Addison.  Syn.  -- Calamity; mishap; mischance; misadventure; ill; harm; disaster. See Calamity. 

MISFORTUNE:  To happen unluckily or unfortunately; to miscarry; to fail. [Obs.] Stow. 

MISFORTUNED:  Unfortunate. [Obs.] 

MISFRAME:  To frame wrongly. 

MISGET:  To get wrongfully. [Obs.] 

MISGIE:  See Misgye. [Obs.] 

MISGIVE:  To give out doubt and apprehension; to be fearful or irresolute. "My mind misgives." Shak. 

MISGIVING:  Evil premonition; doubt; distrust. "Suspicious and misgivings." South. 

MISGO:  To go astray. Spenser. 

MISGOTTEN:  Unjustly gotten. Spenser. 

MISGOVERN:  To govern ill; as, to misgovern a country. Knolles. 

MISGOVERNANCE:  Misgovernment; misconduct; misbehavior. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

MISGOVERNED:  Ill governed, as a people; ill directed. "Rude, misgoverned hands." Shak. 

MISGOVERNMENT:  Bad government; want of government. Shak. 

MISGRACIOUS:  Not gracious. [Obs.] 

MISGRAFF:  To misgraft. [Obs.] Shak. 

MISGRAFT:  To graft wrongly. 

MISGROUND:  To found erroneously. "Misgrounded conceit." Bp. Hall. 

MISGROWTH:  Bad growth; an unnatural or abnormal growth. 

MISGUESS:  To guess wrongly. 

MISGUIDANCE:  Wrong guidance. 

MISGUIDE:  To guide wrongly; to lead astray; as, to misguide the understanding. 

MISGUIDE:  Misguidance; error. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MISGUIDING:  Misleading.  -- Mis*guid"ing*ly, adv. 

MISGYE:  To misguide. [Obs.] 

MISHANDLE:  To handle ill or wrongly; to maltreat. 

MISHAP:  Evil accident; ill luck; misfortune; mischance. Chaucer. Secure from worldly chances and mishaps. Shak. 

MISHAP:  To happen unluckily; -- used impersonally. [Obs.] "If that me mishap." Chaucer. 

MISHAPPEN:  To happen ill or unluckily. Spenser. 

MISHAPPY:  Unhappy. [Obs.] 

MISHCUP:  The scup. [Local, U. S.] 

MISHEAR:  To hear incorrectly. 

MISHMASH:  A hotchpotch. Sir T. Herbert. 

MISHNA:  A collection or digest of Jewish traditions and explanations of Scripture, forming the text of the Talmud. [Written also Mischna.] 

MISHNIC:  Of or pertaining to the Mishna. 

MISIMAGINATION:  Wrong imagination; delusion. Bp. Hall. 

MISIMPROVE:  To use for a bad purpose; to abuse; to misuse; as, to misimprove time, talents, advantages, etc. South. 

MISIMPROVEMENT:  Ill use or employment; use for a bad purpose. 

MISINCLINE:  To cause to have a wrong inclination or tendency; to affect wrongly. 

MISINFER:  To infer incorrectly. 

MISINFORM:  To give untrue information to; to inform wrongly. 

MISINFORM:  To give untrue information; (with against) to calumniate. [R.] Bp. Montagu. 

MISINFORMANT:  A misinformer. 

MISINFORMATION:  Untrue or incorrect information. Bacon. 

MISINFORMER:  One who gives or incorrect information. 

MISINSTRUCT:  To instruct amiss. 

MISINSTRUCTION:  Wrong or improper instruction. 

MISINTEND:  To aim amiss. [Obs.] 

MISINTERPRET:  To interpret erroneously; to understand or to explain in a wrong sense. 

MISINTERPRETABLE:  Capable of being misinterpreted; liable to be misunderstood. 

MISINTERPRETATION:  The act of interpreting erroneously; a mistaken interpretation. 

MISINTERPRETER:  One who interprets erroneously. 

MISJOIN:  To join unfitly or improperly. 

MISJOINDER:  An incorrect union of parties or of causes of action in a procedure, criminal or civil. Wharton. 

MISJUDGE:  To judge erroneously or unjustly; to err in judgment; to misconstrue. 

MISJUDGMENT:  A wrong or unjust judgment. 

MISKEEP:  To keep wrongly. Chaucer. 

MISKEN:  Not to know. [Obs.] 

MISKIN:  A little bagpipe. [Obs.] Drayton. 

MISKINDLE:  To kindle amiss; to inflame to a bad purpose; to excite wrongly. 

MISKNOW:  To have a mistaken notion of or about. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

MISLACTATION:  Defective flow or vitiated condition of the milk. 

MISLAYER:  One who mislays. 

MISLE:  To rain in very fine drops, like a thick mist; to mizzle. 

MISLE:  A fine rain; a thick mist; mizzle. 

MISLEAD:  To lead into a wrong way or path; to lead astray; to guide into error; to cause to mistake; to deceive. Trust not servants who mislead or misinform you. Bacon. To give due light To the mislead and lonely traveler. Milton.  Syn.  -- To delude; deceive. See Deceive. 

MISLEADER:  One who leads into error. 

MISLEADING:  Leading astray; delusive. 

MISLEARN:  To learn wrongly. 

MISLED:  of Mislead. 

MISLEN:  See Maslin. 

MISLETOE:  See Mistletoe. 

MISLIGHT:  To deceive or lead astray with a false light. Herrick. 

MISLIKE:  To dislike; to disapprove of; to have aversion to; as, to mislike a man. Who may like or mislike what he says. I. Taylor. 

MISLIKE:  Dislike; disapprobation; aversion. 

MISLIKER:  One who dislikes. 

MISLIKING:  Dislike; aversion. 

MISLIN:  See Maslin. 

MISLIVE:  To live amiss. 

MISLODGE:  To lodge amiss. [Obs.] 

MISLUCK:  Ill luck; misfortune. 

MISLY:  Raining in very small drops. 

MISMAKE:  To make or form amiss; to spoil in making. "Limping possibilities of mismade human nature." Mrs. Browning. 

MISMAKE:  To make or form amiss; to spoil in making. "Limping possibilities of mismade human nature."  Mrs. Browning. 

MISMANAGE:  To manage ill or improperly; as, to mismanage public affairs. 

MISMANAGEMENT:  Wrong or bad management; as, he failed through mismagement. 

MISMANAGER:  One who manages ill. 

MISMARK:  To mark wrongly. 

MISMATCH:  To match unsuitably. 

MISMATE:  To mate wrongly or unsuitably; as, to mismate gloves or shoes; a mismated couple. 

MISMEASURE:  To measure or estimate incorrectly. 

MISMEASUREMENT:  Wrong measurement. 

MISMETER:  To give the wrong meter to, as to a line of verse. [R.] Chaucer. 

MISNAME:  To call by the wrong name; to give a wrong or inappropriate name to. 

MISNOMER:  The misnaming of a person in a legal instrument, as in a complaint or indictment; any misnaming of a person or thing; a wrong or inapplicable name or title. Many of the changes, by a great misnomer, called parliamentary "reforms". Burke. The word "synonym" is fact a misnomer. Whatel 

MISNOMER:  To misname. [R.] 

MISNUMBER:  To number wrongly. 

MISNURTURE:  To nurture or train wrongly; as, to misnurture children. Bp. Hall. 

MISOBEDIENCE:  Mistaken obedience; disobedience. [Obs.] Milton. 

MISOBSERVE:  To observe inaccurately; to mistake in observing. Locke. 

MISOBSERVER:  One who misobserves; one who fails to observe properly. 

MISOGAMIST:  A hater of marriage. 

MISOGAMY:  Hatre 

MISOGYNIST:  A woman hater. Fuller. 

MISOGYNOUS:  Hating women. 

MISOGYNY:  Hatred of women. Johnson. 

MISOLOGY:  Hatred of argument or discussion; hatred of enlightenment. G. H. Lewes. 

MISOPINION:  Wrong opinion. [Obs.] 

MISORDER:  To order ill; to manage erroneously; to conduct badly. [Obs.] Shak. 

MISORDER:  Irregularity; disorder. [Obs.] Camden. 

MISORDERLY:  Irregular; disorderly. [Obs.] 

MISORDINATION:  Wrong ordination. 

MISOTHEISM:  Hatred of God. De Quincey. 

MISPAINT:  To paint ill, or wrongly. 

MISPASSION:  Wrong passion or feeling. [Obs.] 

MISPAY:  To dissatisfy. [Obs.]  MISPELL; MISPEND Mis*pell", v. t., Mis*pend" (, v. t., etc.  See Misspell, Misspend, etc. 

MISPENSE:  See Misspense. Bp. Hall. 

MISPERCEPTION:  Erroneous perception. 

MISPERSUADE:  To persuade amiss. 

MISPERSUASION:  A false persuasion; wrong notion or opinion. Dr. H. More. 

MISPICKEL:  Arsenical iron pyrites; arsenopyrite. 

MISPLACE:  To put in a wrong place; to set or place on an improper or unworthy object; as, he misplaced his confidence. 

MISPLACEMENT:  The act of misplacing, or the state of being misplaced. 

MISPLEAD:  To err in pleading. 

MISPLEADING:  An error in pleading. 

MISPOINT:  To point improperly; to punctuate wrongly. 

MISPOLICY:  Wrong policy; impolicy. 

MISPRACTICE:  Wrong practice. 

MISPRAISE:  To praise amiss. 

MISPRINT:  To print wrong. 

MISPRINT:  A mistake in printing; a deviation from the copy; as, a book full of misprints. 

MISPRISE:  See Misprize. [Obs.] Shak. 

MISPRISE:  To mistake. [Obs.] Shak. 

MISPRISION:  A neglect, negligence, or contempt.  Note: In its larger and older sense it was used to signify "every considerable misdemeanor which has not a certain name given to it in the law." Russell. In a more modern sense it is applied exclusively to two offenses: --1. Misprision of treason, which is omission to notify the authorities of an act of treason by a person cognizant thereof. Stephen. 2. Misprision of felony, which is a concealment of a felony by a person cognizant thereof. Stephen. 

MISPRIZE:  To slight or undervalue. O, for those vanished hours, so much misprized! Hillhouse. I do not blame them, madam, nor misprize. Mrs. Browning. 

MISPROCEEDING:  Wrong or irregular proceding. 

MISPROFESS:  To make a false profession; to make pretensions to skill which is not possessed. 

MISPROFESS:  To make a false profession of. 

MISPRONOUNCE:  To pronounce incorrectly. 

MISPRONUNCIATION:  Wrong or improper pronunciation. 

MISPROPORTION:  To give wrong proportions to; to join without due proportion. 

MISPROUD:  Viciously proud. [Obs.] Shak. 

MISPUNCTUATE:  To punctuate wrongly or incorrectly. 

MISQUOTATION:  Erroneous or inaccurate quotation. 

MISQUOTE:  To quote erroneously or incorrectly. Shak. 

MISRAISE:  To raise or exite unreasonable. "Misraised fury." Bp. Hall. 

MISRATE:  To rate erroneously. 

MISREAD:  To read amiss; to misunderstand in reading. 

MISRECEIVE:  To receive wrongly. 

MISRECITAL:  An inaccurate recital. 

MISRECITE:  To recite erroneously. 

MISRECKON:  To reckon wrongly; to miscalculate. Swift. 

MISRECKONING:  An erroneous computation. 

MISRECOLLECT:  To have an erroneous remembrance of; to suppose erroneously that one recollects. Hitchcock. 

MISRECOLLECTION:  Erroneous or inaccurate recollection. 

MISREFORM:  To reform wrongly or imperfectly. 

MISREGARD:  Wrong understanding; misconstruction. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MISREGULATE:  To regulate wrongly or imperfectly; to fail to regulate. 

MISREHEARSE:  To rehearse or quote incorrectly. Sir T. More. 

MISRELATE:  To relate inaccurately. 

MISRELATION:  Erroneous relation or narration. Abp. Bramhall. 

MISRELIGION:  False religion. [R.] 

MISREMEMBER:  To mistake in remembering; not to remember correctly. Sir T. More. 

MISRENDER:  To render wrongly; to translate or recite wrongly. Boyle. 

MISREPEAT:  To repeat wrongly; to give a wrong version of. Gov. Winthrop. 

MISREPORT:  To report erroneously; to give an incorrect account of. Locke. 

MISREPORT:  An erroneous report; a false or incorrect account given. Denham. South. 

MISREPRESENT:  To represent incorrectly (almost always, unfacorably); to give a false erroneous representation of, either maliciously, ignirantly, or carelessly. Swift. 

MISREPRESENT:  To make an incorrect or untrue representation. Milton. 

MISREPRESENTATION:  Untrue representation; false or incorrect statement or account; -- usually unfavorable to the thing represented; as, a misrepresentation of a person's motives. Sydney Smith.  Note: In popular use, this word often conveys the idea of intentional untruth. 

MISREPRESENTATIVE:  Tending to convey a wrong impression; misrepresenting. 

MISREPRESENTER:  One who misrepresents. 

MISREPUTE:  To have in wrong estimation; to repute or estimate erroneously. 

MISRULE:  To rule badly; to misgovern. 

MISRULY:  Unruly. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

MISS:  In the game of three-card loo, an extra hand, dealt on the table, which may be substituted for the hand dealt to a player. 

MISSA:  The service or sacrifice of the Mass. 

MISSAL:  The book containing the service of the Mass for the entire year; a Mass book. 

MISSAL:  Of or pertaining to the Mass, or to a missal or Mass book. Bp. Hall. 

MISSAY:  To speak ill. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MISSEEK:  To seek for wrongly. [Obs.] 

MISSEL:  Mistletoe. [Obs.] Missel bird, Missel thrush (Zoöl.), a large European thrush (Turdus viscivorus) which feeds on the berries of the mistletoe; -- called also mistletoe thrush and missel. 

MISSELDINE:  The mistletoe. [Obs.] Baret. 

MISSELTOE:  See Mistletoe. 

MISSEMBLANCE:  False resemblance or semblance. [Obs.] 

MISSEND:  To send amiss or incorrectly. 

MISSERVE:  To serve unfaithfully. 

MISSET:  To set pr place wrongly. 

MISSHAPE:  To shape ill; to give an ill or unnatural from to; to deform. "Figures monstrous and misshaped." Pope. 

MISSHAPEN:  Having a bad or ugly form. "The mountains are misshapen." Bentley.  -- Mis*shap"en*ly, adv.  -- Mis*shap"en*ness, n. 

MISSHEATHED:  Sheathed by mistake; wrongly sheathed; sheathed in a wrong place. Shak. 

MISSIFICATE:  To perform Mass. [Obs.] Milton. 

MISSILE:  Capable of being thrown; adapted for hurling or to be projected from the hand, or from any instrument or rngine, so as to strike an object at a distance. We bend the bow, or wing the missile dart. Pope. 

MISSILE:  A weapon thrown or projected or intended to be projcted, as a lance, an arrow, or a bullet. 

MISSING:  Absent from the place where it was expected to be found; lost; wanting; not present when called or looked for. Neither was there aught missing unto them. 1 Sam. xxv. 7. For a time caught up to God, as once Moses was in the mount, and missing long. Milton. 

MISSINGLY:  With a sense of loss. [Obs.] Shak. 

MISSION:  To send on a mission. [Mostly used in the form of the past participle.] Keats. 

MISSIONARY:  One who is sent on a mission; especially, one sent to propagate religion. Swift. Missionary apostolic, a Roman Catholic missionary sent by commission from the pope. 

MISSIONARY:  Of or pertaining to missions; as, a missionary meeting; a missionary fund. 

MISSIONER:  A missionary; an envoy; one who conducts a mission. See Mission, n., 6. "Like mighty missioner you come." Dryden. 

MISSIS:  A mistress; a wife; -- so used by the illiterate. G. Eliot. 

MISSISH:  Like a miss; prim; affected; sentimental.  -- Miss"ish*ness, n. 

MISSIT:  To sit badly or imperfectly upon; to misbecome. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISSOUND:  To sound wrongly; to utter or pronounce incorrectly. E,Hall. 

MISSPEAK:  To err in speaking. 

MISSPEAK:  To utter wrongly. 

MISSPEECH:  Wrong speech. [Obs.] 

MISSPELL:  To spell incorrectly. 

MISSPELLING:  A wrong spelling. 

MISSPEND:  To spend amiss or for wrong purposes; to aquander; to waste; as, to misspend time or money. J. Philips. 

MISSPENDER:  One who misspends. 

MISSPENSE:  A spending improperly; a wasting. [Obs.] Barrow. 

MISSPENT:  of Misspend. 

MISSTATE:  To state wrongly; as, to misstate a question in debate. Bp. Sanderson. 

MISSTATEMENT:  An incorrect statement. 

MISSTAYED:  Having missed stays; -- said of a ship. 

MISSTEP:  A wrong step; an error of conduct. 

MISSTEP:  To take a wrong step; to go astray. 

MISSUCCESS:  Failure. [Obs.] 

MISSUGGESTION:  Wrong or evil suggestion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

MISSUMMATION:  Wrong summation. 

MISSWEAR:  To swear falsely. 

MISSY:  See Misy. 

MISSY:  An affectionate, or contemptuous, form of miss; a young girl; a miss.  -- a.  Like a miss, or girl. 

MIST:  To cloud; to cover with mist; to dim. Shak. 

MIST:  To rain in very fine drops; as, it mists. 

MISTAKABLE:  Liable to be mistaken; capable of being misconceived. Sir T. Browne. 

MISTAKE:  To err in knowledge, perception, opinion, or judgment; to commit an unintentional error. Servants mistake, and sometimes occasion misunderstanding among friends. Swift. 

MISTAKE:  Misconception, error, which when non-negligent may be ground for rescinding a contract, or for refusing to perform it. No mistake, surely; without fail; as, it will happen at the appointed time, and no mistake. [Low]  Syn.  -- Blunder; error; bull. See Blunder. 

MISTAKENLY:  By mistake. Goldsmith. 

MISTAKENNESS:  Erroneousness. 

MISTAKER:  One who mistakes. Well meaning ignorance of some mistakers. Bp. Hall. 

MISTAKING:  An error; a mistake. Shak. 

MISTAKINGLY:  Erroneously. 

MISTAUGHT:  Wrongly taught; as, a mistaught youth. L'Estrange. 

MISTEACH:  To teach wrongly; to instruct erroneously. 

MISTELL:  To tell erroneously. 

MISTEMPER:  To temper ill; to disorder; as, to mistemper one's head. Warner. This inundation of mistempered humor. Shak. 

MISTER:  A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a man or youth. It is usually written in the abbreviated form Mr. To call your name, inquire your where, Or whet you think of Mister Some-one's book, Or Mister Other's marriage or decease. Mrs. Browning. 

MISTER:  To address or mention by the title Mr.; as, he mistered me in a formal way. [Colloq.] 

MISTER:  To be needful or of use. [Obs.] As for my name, it mistereth not to tell. Spenser. 

MISTERM:  To call by a wrong name; to miscall. 

MISTERY:  See Mystery, a trade. 

MISTFUL:  Clouded with, or as with, mist. 

MISTHINK:  To think wrongly. [Obs.] "Adam misthought of her." Milton. 

MISTHINK:  To have erroneous thoughts or judgment of; to think ill of. [Obs.] Shak. 

MISTHOUGHT:  Erroneous thought; mistaken opinion; error. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MISTHRIVE:  To thrive poorly; to be not thrifty or prosperous. [Obs.] 

MISTHROW:  To throw wrongly.  MISTIC; MISTICO Mis"tic, Mis"ti*co, n. Etym: [Sp. místico.]  A kind of small sailing vessel used in the Mediterranean. It is rigged partly like a xebec, and partly like a felucca. 

MISTIDE:  To happen or come to pass unfortunately; also, to suffer evil fortune. [Obs.]  MISTIGRIS; MISTIGRI Mis`ti`gris", Mis`ti`gri", n. Etym: [F. mistigri.]  A variety of the game of poker in which the joker is used, and called mistigris or mistigri. 

MISTIHEAD:  Mistiness. [Obs.] 

MISTILY:  With mist; darkly; obscurely. 

MISTIME:  To time wrongly; not to adapt to the time. 

MISTINESS:  State of being misty. 

MISTION:  Mixture. [Obs.] 

MISTITLE:  To call by a wrong title. 

MISTLE:  To fall in very fine drops, as rain. 

MISTLETOE:  A parasitic evergreen plant of Europe (Viscum album), bearing a glutinous fruit. When found upon the oak, where it is rare, it was an object of superstitious regard among the Druids. A bird lime is prepared from its fruit. [Written also misletoe, misseltoe, and mistleto.] Lindley. Loudon.  Note: The mistletoe of the United States is Phoradendron flavescens, having broader leaves than the European kind. In different regions various similar plants are called by this name. 

MISTONUSK:  The American badger. 

MISTOOK:  of Mistake. 

MISTRADITION:  A wrong tradition. "Monsters of mistradition." Tennyson. 

MISTRAIN:  To train amiss. 

MISTRAL:  A violent and cold northwest wind experienced in the Mediterranean provinces of France, etc. 

MISTRANSLATE:  To translate erroneously. 

MISTRANSLATION:  Wrong translation. 

MISTRANSPORT:  To carry away or mislead wrongfully, as by passion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

MISTREADING:  Misstep; misbehavior. "To punish my mistreadings." Shak. 

MISTREAT:  To treat amiss; to abuse. 

MISTREATMENT:  Wrong treatment. 

MISTRESS:  To wait upon a mistress; to be courting. [Obs.] Donne. 

MISTRIAL:  A false or erroneous trial; a trial which has no result. 

MISTRIST:  To mistrust. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISTROW:  To think wrongly. [Obs.] 

MISTRUST:  Want of confidence or trust; suspicion; distrust. Milton. 

MISTRUSTER:  One who mistrusts. 

MISTRUSTFUL:  Having or causing mistrust, suspicions, or forebodings. Their light blown out in some mistrustful wood. Shak. -- Mis*trust"ful*ly, adv.  -- Mis*trust"ful*ness, n. 

MISTRUSTINGLY:  With distrust or suspicion. 

MISTRUSTLESS:  Having no mistrust or suspicion. The swain mistrustless of his smutted face. Goldsmith. 

MISTUNE:  To tune wrongly. 

MISTURN:  To turn amiss; to pervert. 

MISTUTOR:  To instruct amiss. 

MISUNDERSTAND:  To misconceive; to mistake; to miscomprehend; to take in a wrong sense. 

MISUNDERSTANDER:  One who misunderstands. Sir T. More. 

MISURATO:  Measured; -- a direction to perform a passage in strict or measured time. 

MISUSAGE:  Bad treatment; abuse. Spenser. 

MISUSEMENT:  Misuse. [Obs.] 

MISUSER:  Unlawful use of a right; use in excess of, or varying from, one's right. Bouvier. 

MISVALUE:  To value wrongly or too little; to undervalue. But for I am so young, I dread my work Wot be misvalued both of old and young. W. Browne. 

MISVOUCH:  To vouch falsely. 

MISWANDER:  To wander in a wrong path; to stray; to go astray. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISWAY:  A wrong way. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MISWEAR:  To wear ill. [Obs.] Bacon. 

MISWED:  To wed improperly. 

MISWEEN:  To ween amiss; to misjudge; to distrust; to be mistaken. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MISWEND:  To go wrong; to go astray. [Obs.] "The world is miswent." Gower. 

MISWORD:  To word wrongly; as, to misword a message, or a sentence. 

MISWORD:  A word wrongly spoken; a cross word. [Obs.] Sylvester. Breton. 

MISWORSHIP:  Wrong or false worship; mistaken practices in religion. Bp. Hall. Such hideous jungle of misworships. Carlyle. 

MISWORSHIP:  To worship wrongly. Bp. Hall. 

MISWORSHIPER:  One who worships wrongly. 

MISWRITE:  To write incorrectly. 

MISWROUGHT:  Badly wrought. Bacon. 

MISY:  An impure yellow sulphate of iron; yellow copperas or copiapite. 

MISYOKE:  To yoke improperly. 

MISZEALOUS:  Mistakenly zealous. [Obs.] 

MITE:  A minute arachnid, of the order Acarina, of which there are many species; as, the cheese mite, sugar mite, harvest mite, etc. See Acarina.  2. Etym: [D. mijt; prob. the same word.]  A small coin formerly circulated in England, rated at about a third of a farthing. The name is also applied to a small coin used in Palestine in the time of Christ. Two mites, which make a farthing. Mark xii. 49.  3. A small weight; one twentieth of a grain.  4. Anything very small; a minute object; a very little quantity or particle. For in effect they be not worth a myte. Chaucer.  MITER; MITRE Mi"ter, Mi"tre, n. Etym: [F. mitre, fr. L. mitra headband, turban, Gr.  1. A covering for the head, worn on solemn occasions by church dignitaries. It has been made in many forms, the present form being a lofty cap with two points or peaks. Fairholt.  2. The surface forming the beveled end or edge of a piece where a miter joint is made; also, a joint formed or a junction effected by two beveled ends or edges; a miter joint.  3. (Numis.)  A sort of base money or coin. Miter box (Carp. & Print.), an apparatus for guiding a handsaw at the proper angle in making a miter joint; esp., a wooden or metal trough with vertical kerfs in its upright sides, for guides.  -- Miter dovetail (Carp.), a kind of dovetail for a miter joint in which there is only one joint line visible, and that at the angle.  -- Miter gauge (Carp.), a gauge for determining the angle of a miter.  -- Miter joint, a joint formed by pieces matched and united upon a line bisecting the angle of junction, as by the beveled ends of two pieces of molding or brass rule, etc. The term is used especially when the pieces form a right angle. See Miter, 2.  -- Miter shell (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of marine univalve shells of the genus Mitra.  -- Miter square (Carp.), a bevel with an immovable arm at an angle of 45º, for striking lines on stuff to be mitered; also, a square with an arm adjustable to any angle.  -- Miter wheels, a pair of bevel gears, of equal diameter, adapted for working together, usually with their axes at right angles.  MITER; MITRE Mi"ter, Mi"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mitered or Mitred; p. pr. & vb. n. Mitering or Mitring.]  1. To place a miter upon; to adorn with a miter. "Mitered locks." Milton.  2. To match together, as two pieces of molding or brass rule on a line bisecting the angle of junction; to bevel the ends or edges of, for the purpose of matching together at an angle.  MITER; MITRE Mi"ter, Mi"tre, v. i.  To meet and match together, as two pieces of molding, on a line bisecting the angle of junction. 

MITERWORT:  Any plant of the genus Mitella, -- slender, perennial herbs with a pod slightly resembling a bishop's miter; bishop's cap. False miterwort, a white-flowered perennial herb of the United States (Tiarella cardifolia). 

MITHIC:  See Mythic. 

MITHRAS:  The sun god of the Persians. 

MITHRIDATE:  An antidote against poison, or a composition in form of an electuary, supposed to serve either as a remedy or a preservative against poison; an alexipharmic; -- so called from King Mithridates, its reputed inventor. [Love is] a drop of the true elixir; no mithridate so effectual against the infection of vice. Southey. 

MITHRIDATIC:  Of or pertaining to King Mithridates, or to a mithridate. 

MITIGABLE:  Admitting of mitigation; that may be mitigated. 

MITIGANT:  Tending to mitigate; mitigating; lentitive. Johnson. 

MITIGATION:  The act of mitigating, or the state of being mitigated; abatement or diminution of anything painful, harsh, severe, afflictive, or calamitous; as, the mitigation of pain, grief, rigor, severity, punishment, or penalty.  Syn.  -- Alleviation; abatement; relief. 

MITIGATIVE:  Tending to mitigate; alleviating. 

MITIGATOR:  One who, or that which, mitigates. 

MITIGATORY:  Tending to mitigate or alleviate; mitigative. 

MITING:  A little one; -- used as a term of endearment. [Obs.] Skelton.  MITIS CASTING Mi"tis cast`ing. [Perh. fr. L. mitis mild.]  A process, invented by P. Ostberg, for producing malleable iron castings by melting wrought iron, to which from 0.05 to 0.1 per cent of aluminium is added to lower the melting point, usually in a petroleum furnace, keeping the molten metal at the bubbling point until it becomes quiet, and then pouring the molten metal into a mold lined with a special mixture consisting essentially of molasses and ground burnt fire clay; also, a casting made by this process; -- called also wrought-iron casting.  MITIS METAL Mitis metal.  The malleable iron produced by mitis casting; -- called also simply mitis. 

MITOME:  The denser part of the protoplasm of a cell. 

MITOSIS:  See Karyokinesis. 

MITOTIC:  Of or pertaining to mitosis; karyokinetic; as, mitotic cell division; -- opposed to amitotic. --Mi*tot"ic*al*ly (#), adv. 

MITRAILLE:  Shot or bits of iron used sometimes in loading cannon. 

MITRAILLEUR:  One who serves a mitrailleuse. 

MITRAILLEUSE:  A breech-loading machine gun consisting of a number of barrels fitted together, so arranged that the barrels can be fired simultaneously, or successively, and rapidly. 

MITRAL:  Pertaining to a miter; resembling a miter; as, the mitral valve between the left auricle and left ventricle of the heart. 

MITRE:  See Miter. 

MITRIFORM:  Having the form of a miter, or a peaked cap; as, a mitriform calyptra. Gray. 

MITT:  A mitten; also, a covering for the wrist and hand and not for the fingers. 

MITTENED:  Covered with a mitten or mittens. "Mittened hands." Whittier. 

MITTENT:  Sending forth; emitting. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

MITTIMUS:  A pigment of a green color, the chief constituent of which is oxide of chromium. 

MITTY:  The stormy petrel. [Prov. Eng.] 

MITU:  A South American curassow of the genus Mitua. 

MITY:  Having, or abounding with, mites. 

MIXABLE:  Capable of being mixed. 

MIXED:  Formed by mixing; united; mingled; blended. See Mix, v. t. & i. Mixed action (Law), a suit combining the properties of a real and a personal action.  -- Mixed angle, a mixtilineal angle.  -- Mixed fabric, a textile fabric composed of two or more kinds of fiber, as a poplin.  -- Mixed marriage, a marriage between persons of different races or religions; specifically, one between a Roman Catholic and a Protestant.  -- Mixed number, a whole number and a fraction taken together.  -- Mixed train, a railway train containing both passenger and freight cars.  -- Mixed voices (Mus.), voices of both males and females united in the same performance. 

MIXEDLY:  In a mixed or mingled manner. 

MIXEN:  A compost heap; a dunghill. Chaucer. Tennyson. 

MIXER:  One who, or that which, mixes. 

MIXOGAMOUS:  Pairing with several males; -- said of certain fishes of which several males accompany each female during spawning.  MIXOLYDIAN MODE Mix`o*lyd"i*an mode`. Etym: [Gr. Lydian.] (Mus.)  The seventh ecclesiastical mode, whose scale commences on G.  MIXTILINEAL; MIXTILINEAR Mix`ti*lin"e*al, Mix`ti*lin"e*ar, a. Etym: [L. mixtus mixed (p.p. of miscere to mix) + E. lineal, linear.]  Containing, or consisting of, lines of different kinds, as straight, curved, and the like; as, a mixtilinear angle, that is, an angle contained by a straight line and a curve. [R.] 

MIXTLY:  With mixture; in a mixed manner; mixedly. Bacon. 

MIXTURE:  A kind of liquid medicine made up of many ingredients; esp., as opposed to solution, a liquid preparation in which the solid ingredients are not completely dissolved.  5. (Physics & Chem.)  A mass of two or more ingredients, the particles of which are separable, independent, and uncompounded with each other, no matter how thoroughly and finely commingled; -- contrasted with a compound; thus, gunpowder is a mechanical mixture of carbon, sulphur, and niter.  6. (Mus.)  An organ stop, comprising from two to five ranges of pipes, used only in combination with the foundation and compound stops; -- called also furniture stop. It consists of high harmonics, or overtones, of the ground tone.  Syn.  -- Union; admixture; intermixture; medley. 

MIZMAZE:  A maze or labyrinth. [Obs.] 

MIZZEN:  Hindmost; nearest the stern; as, the mizzen shrouds, sails, etc. 

MIZZEN:  The hindmost of the fore and aft sails of a three-masted vessel; also, the spanker. 

MIZZENMAST:  The hindmost mast of a three-masted vessel, or of a yawl-rigged vessel. 

MIZZLE:  Mist; fine rain. 

MIZZY:  A bog or quagmire. [Obs.] Ainsworth.  M'-NAUGHT M'-Naught" (mak*nalt"), v. t. (Steam Engines)  To increase the power of (a single-cylinder beam engine) by adding a small high-pressure cylinder with a piston acting on the beam between the center and the flywheel end, using high-pressure steam and working as a compound engine, -- a plan introduced by M'Naught, a Scottish engineer, in 1845.  MNEMONIC; MNEMONICAL Mne*mon"ic, Mne*mon"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. mind.]  Assisting in memory. 

MNEMONICIAN:  One who instructs in the art of improving or using the memory. 

MNEMONICS:  The art of memory; a system of precepts and rules intended to assist the memory; artificial memory. 

MNEMOSYNE:  The goddess of memory and the mother of the Muses. 

MNEMOTECHNY:  Mnemonics. 

MO:  More; -- usually, more in number. [Obs.] An hundred thousand mo. Chaucer. Likely to find mo to commend than to imitate it. Fuller.  -MO -mo.  A suffix added to the names of certain numerals or to the numerals themselves, to indicate the number of leaves made by folding a sheet of paper; as, sixteenmo or 16mo; eighteenmo or 18mo. It is taken from the Latin forms similarly used; as, duodecimo, sextodecimo, etc. A small circle, placed after the number and near its top, is often used for -mo; as, 16°, 18°, etc. 

MOA:  Any one of several very large extinct species of wingless birds belonging to Dinornis, and other related genera, of the suborder Dinornithes, found in New Zealand. They are allied to the apteryx and the ostrich. They were probably exterminated by the natives before New Zealand was discovered by Europeans. Some species were much larger than the ostrich. 

MOABITE:  One of the posterity of Moab, the son of Lot. (Gen. xix. 37.) Also used adjectively. 

MOABITESS:  A female Moabite. Ruth i. 22.  MOABITE STONE Mo"ab*ite stone. (Archæol.)  A block of black basalt, found at Dibon in Moab by Rev. F. A. Klein, Aug. 19, 1868, which bears an inscription of thirty-four lines, dating from the 9th century b. c., and written in the Moabite alphabet, the oldest Phonician type of the Semitic alphabet. It records the victories of Mesha, king of Moab, esp. those over Israel (2 Kings iii. 4, 5, 27). 

MOABITISH:  Moabite. Ruth ii. 6. 

MOANFUL:  Full of moaning; expressing sorrow.  -- Moan"ful*ly, adv. 

MOAT:  A deep trench around the rampart of a castle or other fortified place, sometimes filled with water; a ditch. 

MOAT:  To surround with a moat. Dryden. 

MOATE:  To void the excrement, as a bird; to mute. [Obs.] 

MOB:  A mobcap. Goldsmith. 

MOB:  To wrap up in, or cover with, a cowl. [R.] 

MOB:  To crowd about, as a mob, and attack or annoy; as, to mob a house or a person. 

MOBBISH:  Like a mob; tumultuous; lawless; as, a mobbish act. Bp. Kent. 

MOBCAP:  A plain cap or headdress for women or girls; especially, one tying under the chin by a very broad band, generally of the same material as the cap itself. Thackeray. 

MOBILE:  Capable of being moved, aroused, or excited; capable of spontaneous movement. 

MOBILE:  The mob; the populace. [Obs.] "The unthinking mobile." South. 

MOBILIZATION:  The act of mobilizing. 

MOBILIZE:  To put in a state of readiness for active service in war, as an army corps. 

MOBLE:  To wrap the head of in a hood. [Obs.] Shak. 

MOBLES:  See Moebles. [Obs.] 

MOBOCRACY:  A condition in which the lower classes of a nation control public affairs without respect to law, precedents, or vested rights. It is good name that Dr. Stevens has given to our present situation (for one can not call it a government), a mobocracy. Walpole. 

MOBOCRAT:  One who favors a form of government in which the unintelligent populace rules without restraint. Bayne. 

MOBOCRATIC:  Of, or relating to, a mobocracy. 

MOCCASIN:  A poisonous snake of the Southern United States. The water moccasin (Ancistrodon piscivorus) is usually found in or near water. Above, it is olive brown, barred with black; beneath, it is brownish yellow, mottled with darker. The upland moccasin is Ancistrodon atrofuscus. They resemble rattlesnakes, but are without rattles. Moccasin flower (Bot.), a species of lady's slipper (Cypripedium acaule) found in North America. The lower petal is two inches long, and forms a rose-colored moccasin-shaped pouch. It grows in rich woods under coniferous trees. 

MOCCASINED:  Covered with, or wearing, a moccasin or moccasins. "Moccasined feet." Harper's Mag. 

MOCHE:  A bale of raw silk. 

MOCHE:  Much. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOCHEL:  Much. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOCHILA:  A large leather flap which covers the saddletree. [Western U.S.] 

MOCK:  To make sport contempt or in jest; to speak in a scornful or jeering manner. When thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed Job xi. 3. She had mocked at his proposal. Froude. 

MOCK:  Imitating reality, but not real; false; counterfeit; assumed; sham. That superior greatness and mock majesty. Spectator. Mock bishop's weed (Bot.), a genus of slender umbelliferous herbs (Discopleura) growing in wet places.  -- Mock heroic, burlesquing the heroic; as, a mock heroic poem.  -- Mock lead. See Blende (a).  -- Mock nightingale (Zoöl.), the European blackcap.  -- Mock orange (Bot.), a genus of American and Asiatic shrubs (Philadelphus), with showy white flowers in panicled cymes. P. coronarius, from Asia, has fragrant flowers; the American kinds are nearly scentless.  -- Mock sun. See Parhelion.  -- Mock turtle soup, a soup made of calf's head, veal, or other meat, and condiments, in imitation of green turtle soup.  -- Mock velvet, a fabric made in imitation of velvet. See Mockado. 

MOCKABLE:  Such as can be mocked. Shak. 

MOCKADO:  A stuff made in imitation of velvet; -- probably the same as mock velvet. [Obs.] Our rich mockado doublet. Ford. 

MOCKADOUR:  See Mokadour. [Obs.] 

MOCKAGE:  Mockery. [Obs.] Fuller. 

MOCKBIRD:  The European sedge warbler (Acrocephalus phragmitis). 

MOCKER:  A mocking bird. Mocker nut (Bot.), a kind of hickory (Carya tomentosa) and its fruit, which is far inferior to the true shagbark hickory nut. 

MOCKING:  Imitating, esp. in derision, or so as to cause derision; mimicking; derisive. Mocking bird (Zoöl.), a North American singing bird (Mimus polyglottos), remarkable for its exact imitations of the notes of other birds. Its back is gray; the tail and wings are blackish, with a white patch on each wing; the outer tail feathers are partly white. The name is also applied to other species of the same genus, found in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies.  -- Mocking thrush (Zoöl.), any species of the genus Harporhynchus, as the brown thrush (H. rufus).  -- Mocking wren (Zoöl.), any American wren of the genus Thryothorus, esp. T. Ludovicianus. 

MOCKINGLY:  By way of derision; in a contemptuous or mocking manner. 

MOCKINGSTOCK:  A butt of sport; an object of derision. [R.] 

MOCKISH:  Mock; counterfeit; sham. [Obs.] 

MOCKLE:  See Mickle. 

MOCO:  A South American rodent (Cavia rupestris), allied to the Guinea pig, but larger; -- called also rock cavy. 

MODAL:  Indicating, or pertaining to, some mode of conceiving existence, or of expressing thought. 

MODALIST:  One who regards Father, Son, and Spirit as modes of being, and not as persons, thus denying personal distinction in the Trinity. Eadie. 

MODALITY:  A modal relation or quality; a mode or point of view under which an object presents itself to the mind. According to Kant, the quality of propositions, as assertory, problematical, or apodeictic. 

MODALLY:  In a modal manner. A compound proposition, the parts of which are united modally ... by the particles "as" and "so." Gibbs. 

MODE:  Any combination of qualities or relations, considered apart from the substance to which they belong, and treated as entities; more generally, condition, or state of being; manner or form of arrangement or manifestation; form, as opposed to matter. Modes I call such complex ideas, which, however compounded, contain not in them the supposition of subsisting by themselves, but are considered as dependencies on, or affections of, substances. Locke.  5. (Logic)  The form in which the proposition connects the predicate and subject, whether by simple, contingent, or necessary assertion; the form of the syllogism, as determined by the quantity and quality of the constituent proposition; mood.  6. (Gram.)  Same as Mood.  7. (Mus.)  The scale as affected by the various positions in it of the minor intervals; as, the Dorian mode, the Ionic mode, etc., of ancient Greek music.  Note: In modern music, only the major and the minor mode, of whatever key, are recognized.  8. A kind of silk. See Alamode, n.  Syn.  -- Method; manner. See Method. 

MODEL:  Suitable to be taken as a model or pattern; as, a model house; a model husband. 

MODEL:  To plan or form after a pattern; to form in model; to form a model or pattern for; to shape; to mold; to fashion; as, to model a house or a government; to model an edifice according to the plan delineated. 

MODEL:  To make a copy or a pattern; to design or imitate forms; as, to model in wax. 

MODELER:  One who models; hence, a worker in plastic art. [Written also modeller.] 

MODELING:  The act or art of making a model from which a work of art is to be executed; the formation of a work of art from some plastic material. Also, in painting, drawing, etc., the expression or indication of solid form. [Written also modelling.] Modeling plane, a small plane for planing rounded objects.  -- Modeling wax, beeswax melted with a little Venice turpentine, or other resinous material, and tinted with coloring matter, usually red, -- used in modeling. 

MODELIZE:  To model. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

MODENA:  A certain crimsonlike color. Good. 

MODENESE:  Of or pertaining to Modena or its inhabitants.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or inhabitant of Modena; the people of Modena. 

MODER:  To moderate. [Obs.] 

MODERABLE:  Modeate; temperate. [Obs.] 

MODERANCE:  Moderation. [Obs.] Caxton. 

MODERATE:  Kept within due bounds; observing reasonable limits; not excessive, extreme, violent, or rigorous; limited; restrained; as: (a) Limited in quantity; sparing; temperate; frugal; as, moderate in eating or drinking; a moderate table. (b) Limited in degree of activity, energy, or excitement; reasonable; calm; slow; as, moderate language; moderate endeavors. (c) Not extreme in opinion, in partisanship, and the like; as, a moderate Calvinist. A number of moderate members managed ... to obtain a majority in a thin house. Swift.  (d) Not violent or rigorous; temperate; mild; gentle; as, a moderate winter. "Moderate showers." Walter. (e) Limited as to degree of progress; as, to travel at moderate speed. (f) Limited as to the degree in which a quality, principle, or faculty appears; as, an infusion of moderate strength; a man of moderate abilities. (g) Limited in scope or effects; as, a reformation of a moderate kind. Hooker. 

MODERATE:  One of a party in the Church of Scotland in the 18th century, and part of the 19th, professing moderation in matters of church government, in discipline, and in doctrine. 

MODERATELY:  In a moderate manner or degree; to a moderate extent. Each nymph but moderately fair. Waller. 

MODERATENESS:  The quality or state of being moderate; temperateness; moderation. 

MODERATION:  The first public examinations for degrees at the University of Oxford; -- usually contracted to mods. 

MODERATISM:  Moderation in doctrines or opinion, especially in politics or religion. 

MODERATO:  With a moderate degree of quickness; moderately. Allegro moderato, a little slower than allegro.  -- Andante moderato, a little faster than andante. 

MODERATORSHIP:  The office of a moderator. 

MODERATRESS:  A female moderator. Fuller. 

MODERATRIX:  A female moderator. 

MODERN:  A person of modern times; -- opposed to ancient. Pope. 

MODERNISM:  Modern practice; a thing of recent date; esp., a modern usage or mode of expression. 

MODERNIST:  One who admires the moderns, or their ways and fashions. 

MODERNITY:  Modernness; something modern. Walpole. 

MODERNIZATION:  The act of rendering modern in style; the act or process of causing to conform to modern of thinking or acting. 

MODERNIZE:  To render modern; to adapt to modern person or things; to cause to conform to recent or present usage or taste. Percy. 

MODERNIZER:  One who modernizes. 

MODERNLY:  In modern times. Milton. 

MODERNNESS:  The quality or state of being modern; recentness; novelty. M. Arnold. 

MODESTLY:  In a modest manner. 

MODICITY:  Moderateness; smallness; meanness. [Obs.] 

MODICUM:  A little; a small quantity; a measured simply. "Modicums of wit." Shak. Her usual modicum of beer and punch. Thackeray. 

MODIFIABILITY:  Capability of being modified; state or quality of being modifiable. 

MODIFIABLE:  Capable of being modified; liable to modification. 

MODIFICABLE:  Modifiable. [Obs.] 

MODIFICATE:  To qualify. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

MODIFICATION:  The act of modifying, or the state of being modified; a modified form or condition; state as modified; a change; as, the modification of an opinion, or of a machine; the various modifications of light. Bentley. 

MODIFICATIVE:  That which modifies or qualifies, as a word or clause. 

MODIFICATORY:  Tending or serving to modify; modifying. Max Müller. 

MODIFIER:  One who, or that which, modifies. Hume. 

MODILLION:  The enriched block or horizontal bracket generally found under the cornice of the Corinthian and Composite entablature, and sometimes, less ornamented, in the Ionic and other orders; -- so called because of its arrangement at regulated distances. 

MODIOLAR:  Shaped like a bushel measure. 

MODIOLUS:  The central column in the osseous cochlea of the ear. 

MODISH:  According to the mode, or customary manner; conformed to the fashion; fashionable; hence, conventional; as, a modish dress; a modish feast. Dryden. "Modish forms of address." Barrow.  -- Mod"ish*ly, adv.  -- Mod"ish*ness, n. 

MODIST:  One who follows the fashion. 

MODISTE:  A female maker of, or dealer in, articles of fashion, especially of the fashionable dress of ladies; a woman who gives direction to the style or mode of dress. 

MODIUS:  A dry measure, containing about a peck. 

MODOCS:  A tribe of warlike Indians formerly inhabiting Northern California. They are nearly extinct. 

MODULAR:  Of or pertaining to mode, modulation, module, or modius; as, modular arrangement; modular accent; modular measure. 

MODULATE:  To pass from one key into another. 

MODULATION:  A change of key, whether transient, or until the music becomes established in the new key; a shifting of the tonality of a piece, so that the harmonies all center upon a new keynote or tonic; the art of transition out of the original key into one nearly related, and so on, it may be, by successive changes, into a key quite remote. There are also sudden and unprepared modulations. 

MODULATOR:  One who, or that which, modulates. Denham. 

MODULE:  The size of some one part, as the diameter of semi-diameter of the base of a shaft, taken as a unit of measure by which the proportions of the other parts of the composition are regulated. Generally, for columns, the semi-diameter is taken, and divided into a certain number of parts, called minutes (see Minute), though often the diameter is taken, and any dimension is said to be so many modules and minutes in height, breadth, or projection. 

MODULE:  To model; also, to modulate. [Obs.] Sandys. Drayton. 

MODULUS:  A quantity or coefficient, or constant, which expresses the measure of some specified force, property, or quality, as of elasticity, strength, efficiency, etc.; a parameter. Modulus of a machine, a formula expressing the work which a given machine can perform under the conditions involved in its construction; the relation between the work done upon a machine by the moving power, and that yielded at the working points, either constantly, if its motion be uniform, or in the interval of time which it occupies in passing from any given velocity to the same velocity again, if its motion be variable; -- called also the efficiency of the machine. Mosley. Rankine.  -- Modulus of a system of logarithms (Math.), a number by which all the Napierian logarithms must be multiplied to obtain the logarithms in another system.  -- Modulus of elasticity. (a) The measure of the elastic force of any substance, expressed by the ratio of a stress on a given unit of the substance to the accompanying distortion, or strain. (b) An expression of the force (usually in terms of the height in feet or weight in pounds of a column of the same body) which would be necessary to elongate a prismatic body of a transverse section equal to a given unit, as a square inch or foot, to double, or to compress it to half, its original length, were that degree of elongation or compression possible, or within the limits of elasticity; -- called also Young's modulus.  -- Modulus of rupture, the measure of the force necessary to break a given substance across, as a beam, expressed by eighteen times the load which is required to break a bar of one inch square, supported flatwise at two points one foot apart, and loaded in the middle between the points of support. Rankine. 

MODUS:  A qualification involving the idea of variation or departure from some general rule or form, in the way of either restriction or enlargement, according to the circumstances of the case, as in the will of a donor, an agreement between parties, and the like. Bracton.  3. (Law)  A fixed compensation or equivalent given instead of payment of tithes in kind, expressed in full by the phrase modus decimandi. Blackstone. They, from time immemorial, had paid a modus, or composition. Landor. Modus operandi ( Etym: [L.], manner of operating.  MODUS VIVENDI Mo"dus vi*ven"di. [L.]  Mode, or manner, of living; hence, a temporary arrangement of affairs until disputed matters can be settled. 

MODY:  Fashionable. [R.] 

MOE:  A wry face or mouth; a mow. [Obs.] 

MOE:  To make faces; to mow. [Obs.] 

MOE:  More. See Mo. [Obs.] "Sing no more ditties, sing no moe." Shak. 

MOEBLES:  Movables; furniture; -- also used in the singular (moeble). [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOELLINE:  An unguent for the hair. 

MOELLON:  Rubble masonry. 

MOESOGOTHIC:  Belonging to the Moesogoths, a branch of the Goths who settled in Moesia. 

MOESOGOTHIC:  The language of the Moesogoths; -- also called Gothic. 

MOEVE:  To move. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOFF:  A thin silk stuff made in Caucasia. 

MOG:  To move away; to go off. [Prov. Eng. or Local, U. S.] 

MOGGAN:  A closely fitting knit sleeve; also, a legging of knitted material. [Scot.] 

MOGUL:  A heavy locomotive for freight traffic, having three pairs of connected driving wheels and a two-wheeled truck. Great, or Grand, Mogul, the sovereign of the empire founded in Hindostan by the Mongols under Baber in the sixteenth century. Hence, a very important personage; a lord; -- sometimes only mogul. Dryden. 

MOHA:  A kind of millet (Setaria Italica); German millet. 

MOHAIR:  The long silky hair or wool of the Angora goat of Asia Minor; also, a fabric made from this material, or an imitation of such fabric. 

MOHAMMEDAN:  Of or pertaining to Mohammed, or the religion and institutions founded by Mohammed. [Written also Mahometan, Mahomedan, Muhammadan, etc.] 

MOHAMMEDAN:  A follower of Mohammed, the founder of Islamism; one who professes Mohammedanism or Islamism.  MOHAMMEDAN CALENDAR Mo*ham"med*an cal"en*dar.  A lunar calendar reckoning from the year of the hegira, 622 a. d. Thirty of its years constitute a cycle, of which the 2d, 5th, 7th, 10th, 13th, 16th, 18th, 21st, 24th, 26th, and 29th are leap years, having 355 days; the others are common, having 354 days. By the following tables any Mohammedan date may be changed into the Christian date, or vice versa, for the years 1900-1935 a. d.  Months of the Mohammedan year.  1 Muharram . . . .. 30 2 Safar . . . . . . .. 29 3 Rabia I . . . . . . 30 4 Rabia II . . . .. 29 5 Jumada I . . . .. 30 6 Jumada II . . . . 29 7 Rajab . . . . . . .. 30 8 Shaban . . . . . . . 29 9 Ramadan . . . . . . 30 10 Shawwal . . . . . . 29 11 Zu'lkadah . . . . 30 12 Zu'lhijjah . . . 29* * in leap year, 30 days  a. h. a. d. a. h.    a. d.  1317  begins May 12, 1899      1336* begins Oct.17, 1917 1318 May  1, 1900      1337         Oct. 7, 1918 1319*        Apr.20, 1901 1338*        Sept.26,1919 1320         Apr.10, 1902      1339 Sept.15,1920 1321+        Mar.30, 1903      1340         Sept.4, 1921 1322*        Mar.18, 1904      1341*        Aug.24, 1922 1323 Mar. 8, 1905      1342         Aug.14, 1923 1324         Feb.25, 1906 1343         Aug. 2, 1924 1325*        Feb.14, 1907      1344* July 22,1925 1326         Feb. 4, 1908      1345         July 12,1926 1327*        Jan.23, 1909      1346*        July 1, 1927 1328 Jan.13, 1910      1347         June 20,1928 1329         Jan. 2, 1911 1348         June 9, 1929 1330*        Dec.22, 1911      1349* May 29, 1930 1331         Dec.11, 1912      1350         May 19, 1931 1332         Nov.30, 1913      1351++       May  7, 1932 1333* Nov.19, 1914      1352*        Apr.26, 1933 1334         Nov. 9, 1915 1353         Apr.16, 1934 1335         Oct.28, 1916      1354 Apr. 5, 1935 * Leap year  + First year of the 45th cycle ++ First year of the 46th cycle  The following general rule for finding the date of commencement of any Mohammedan year has a maximum error of a day: Multiply 970,224 by the Mohammedan year, point off six decimal places, and add 621.5774. The whole number will be the year a. d., and the decimal multiplied by 365 will give the day of the year.  MOHAMMEDAN ERA Mohammedan Era.  The era in use in Mohammedan countries. See Mohammedan year, below.  MOHAMMEDANISM; MOHAMMEDISM Mo*ham"med*an*ism, Mo*ham"med*ism, n.  The religion, or doctrines and precepts, of Mohammed, contained in the Koran; Islamism.  MOHAMMEDANIZE; MOHAMMEDIZE Mo*ham"med*an*ize, Mo*ham"med*ize, v. t.  To make conformable to the principles, or customs and rites, of Mohammedanism. [Written also Mahometanize.]  MOHAMMEDAN YEAR Mohammedan year.  The year used by Mohammedans, consisting of twelve lunar months without intercalation, so that they retrograde through all the seasons in about 32½ years. The Mohammedan era begins with the year 622 a.d., the first day of the Mohammedan year 1332 begin Nov. 30, 1913, acording to the Gregorian calendar. 

MOHAWK:  One of a tribe of Indians who formed part of the Five Nations. They formerly inhabited the valley of the Mohawk River.  2. One of certain ruffians who infested the streets of London in the time of Addison, and took the name from the Mohawk Indians. [Slang] Spectator. Macaulay. 

MOHICANS:  A tribe of Lenni-Lenape Indians who formerly inhabited Western Connecticut and Eastern New York. [Written also Mohegans.] 

MOHO:  A gallinule (Notornis Mantelli) formerly inhabiting New Zealand, but now supposed to be extinct. It was incapable of flight. See Notornis. 

MOHOCK:  See Mohawk. 

MOHOLI:  See Maholi. 

MOHR:  A West African gazelle (Gazella mohr), having horns on which are eleven or twelve very prominent rings. It is one of the species which produce bezoar. [Written also mhorr.] 

MOHUR:  A British Indian gold coin, of the value of fifteen silver rupees, or $7.21. Malcom.  MOHURRUM; MUHARRAM Mo*hur"rum, Mu*har"ram, n. Etym: [Ar. muharram, prop., sacred, forbidden, n., the first month of the Mohammedan lunar year.]  1. The first month of the Mohammedan year. Whitworth.  2. A festival of the Shiah sect of the Mohammedans held during the first ten days of the month Mohurrum. 

MOIDER:  To toil. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

MOIDORE:  A gold coin of Portugal, valued at about 27s. sterling. 

MOIL:  To daub; to make dirty; to soil; to defile. Thou ... doest thy mind in dirty pleasures moil. Spenser. 

MOIL:  To soil one's self with severe labor; to work with painful effort; to labor; to toil; to drudge. Moil not too much under ground. Bacon. Now he must moil and drudge for one he loathes. Dryden. 

MOIL:  A spot; a defilement. The moil of death upon them. Mrs. Browning. 

MOILE:  A kind of high shoe anciently worn. [Written also moyle.] 

MOINEAU:  A small flat bastion, raised in the middle of an overlong curtain. 

MOIRA:  The deity who assigns to every man his lot. 

MOIRE:  A crystalline or frosted appearance produced by some acids on tin plate; also, the tin plate thus treated. 

MOIST:  To moisten. [Obs.] Shak. 

MOISTENER:  One who, or that which, moistens. Johnson. 

MOISTFUL:  Full of moisture. [R.] 

MOISTLESS:  Without moisture; dry. [R.] 

MOISTNESS:  The quality or state of being moist. 

MOISTURELESS:  Without moisture. 

MOISTY:  Moist. [Obs.] 

MOITHER:  To perplex; to confuse. [Prov. Eng.] Lamb. 

MOITHER:  To toil; to labor. [Prov. Eng.] 

MOJARRA:  Any of certain basslike marine fishes (mostly of tropical seas, and having a deep, compressed body, protracile mouth, and large silvery scales) constituting the family Gerridæ, as Gerres plumieri, found from Florida to Brazil and used as food. Also, any of numerous other fishes of similar appearance but belonging to other families. 

MOKADOUR:  A handkerchief. [Obs.] 

MOKE:  A donkey. [Cant] Thackeray. 

MOKE:  A mesh of a net, or of anything resembling a net. Halliwell. 

MOKY:  Misty; dark; murky; muggy. [Obs.] 

MOLA:  See Sunfish, 1. 

MOLAR:  Of or pertaining to a mass of matter; -- said of the properties or motions of masses, as distinguished from those of molecules or atoms. Carpenter. 

MOLAR:  Having power to grind; grinding; as, the molar teeth; also, of or pertaining to the molar teeth. Bacon. 

MOLAR:  Any one of the teeth back of the incisors and canines. The molar which replace the deciduous or milk teeth are designated as premolars, and those which are not preceded by deciduous teeth are sometimes called true molars. See Tooth. 

MOLARY:  Same as 2d Molar. 

MOLASSE:  A soft Tertiary sandstone; -- applied to a rock occurring in Switzerland. See Chart of Geology. 

MOLASSES:  The thick, brown or dark colored, viscid, uncrystallizable sirup which drains from sugar, in the process of manufacture; any thick, viscid, sweet sirup made from vegetable juice or sap, as of the sorghum or maple. See Treacle. 

MOLD:  A spot; a blemish; a mole. [Obs.] Spenser.  MOLD; MOULD Mold, Mould, n. Etym: [OE. molde, AS. molde; akin to D. mul, G. mull, mulm, OHG. molt, molta, Icel. mold, Dan. muld, Sw. mull, Goth. mulda, and E. meal flour. See Meal, and cf. Mole an animal, Mull, v.] [The prevalent spelling is, perhaps, mould; but as the u has not been inserted in the other words of this class, as bold, gold, old, cold, etc., it seems desirable to complete the analogy by dropping it from this word, thus spelling it as Spenser, South, and many others did. The omission of the u is now very common in America.]  1. Crumbling, soft, friable earth; esp., earth containing the remains or constituents of organic matter, and suited to the growth of plants; soil.  2. Earthy material; the matter of which anything is formed; composing substance; material. The etherial mold, Incapable of stain. Milton. Nature formed me of her softest mold. Addison.  MOLD; MOULD Mold, Mould, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Molded or Moulded; p. pr. & vb. n. Molding or Moulding.]  To cover with mold or soil. [R.]  MOLD; MOULD Mold, Mould, n. Etym: [From the p.p. of OE. moulen to become moldy, to rot, prob. fr. Icel. mygla to grow musty, mugga mugginess; cf. Sw. mögla to grow moldy. See Muggy, and cf. Moldy.] (Bot.)  A growth of minute fungi of various kinds, esp. those of the great groups Hyphomycetes, and Physomycetes, forming on damp or decaying organic matter.  Note: The common blue mold of cheese, the brick-red cheese mold, and the scarlet or orange strata which grow on tubers or roots stored up for use, when commencing to decay, are familiar examples. M. J. Berkley.  MOLD; MOULD Mold, Mould, v. t.  To cause to become moldy; to cause mold to grow upon.  MOLD; MOULD Mold, Mould, v. i.  To become moldy; to be covered or filled, in whole or in part, with a mold.  MOLD; MOULD Mold, Mould, n. Etym: [OE. molde, OF. mole, F. moule, fr. L. modulus. See Model.] [For spelling, see 2d Mold, above.]  1. The matrix, or cavity, in which anything is shaped, and from which it takes its form; also, the body or mass containing the cavity; as, a sand mold; a jelly mold. Milton.  2. That on which, or in accordance with which, anything is modeled or formed; anything which serves to regulate the size, form, etc., as the pattern or templet used by a shipbuilder, carpenter, or mason. The glass of fashion and the mold of form. Shak.  3. Cast; form; shape; character. Crowned with an architrave of antique mold. Pope.  4. (Arch.)  A group of moldings; as, the arch mold of a porch or doorway; the pier mold of a Gothic pier, meaning the whole profile, section, or combination of parts.  5. (Anat.)  A fontanel.  6. (Paper Making)  A frame with a wire cloth bottom, on which the pump is drained to form a sheet, in making paper by hand.  MOLD; MOULD Mold, Mould, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. mouler, OF. moler, moller. See Mold the matrix.]  1. To form into a particular shape; to shape; to model; to fashion. He forgeth and moldeth metals. Sir M. Hale. Did I request thee, Maker, from my clay To mold me man Milton.  2. To ornament by molding or carving the material of; as, a molded window jamb.  3. To knead; as, to mold dough or bread.  4. (Founding)  To form a mold of, as in sand, in which a casting may be made.  MOLDABLE; MOULDABLE Mold"a*ble, Mould"a*ble, a.  Capable of being molded or formed.  MOLDBOARD; MOULDBOARD Mold"board`, Mould"board`, n.  1. A curved plate of iron (originally of wood) back of the share of a plow, which turns over the earth in plowing.  2. (Founding)  A follow board.  MOLDER; MOULDER Mold"er, Mould"er, n.  One who, or that which, molds or forms into shape; specifically (Founding), one skilled in the art of making molds for castings.  MOLDER; MOULDER Mold"er, Mould"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Moldered or Mouldered; p. pr. & vb. n. Moldering or Mouldering.] Etym: [From Mold fine soft earth: cf. Prov. G. multern.]  To crumble into small particles; to turn to dust by natural decay; to lose form, or waste away, by a gradual separation of the component particles, without the presence of water; to crumble away. The moldering of earth in frosts and sun. Bacon. When statues molder, and when arches fall. Prior. If he had sat still, the enemy's army would have moldered to nothing. Clarendon.  MOLDER; MOULDER Mold"er, Mould"er, v. t.  To turn to dust; to cause to crumble; to cause to waste away. [Time's] gradual touch Has moldered into beauty many a tower. Mason.  MOLDERY; MOULDERY Mold"er*y, Mould"er*y, a.  Covered or filled with mold; consisting of, or resembling, mold.  MOLDINESS; MOULDINESS Mold"i*ness, Mould"i*ness, n. Etym: [From Moldy.]  The state of being moldy.  MOLDING; MOULDING Mold"ing, Mould"ing, n.  1. The act or process of shaping in or on a mold, or of making molds; the art or occupation of a molder.  2. Anything cast in a mold, or which appears to be so, as grooved or ornamental bars of wood or metal.  3. (Arch.)  A plane, or curved, narrow surface, either sunk or projecting, used for decoration by means of the lights and shades upon its surface. Moldings vary greatly in pattern, and are generally used in groups, the different members of each group projecting or retreating, one beyond another. See Cable, n., 3, and Crenelated molding, under Crenelate, v. t.  MOLDING; MOULDING Mold"ing, Mould"ing, p.a.  Used in making a mold or moldings; used in shaping anything according to a pattern. Molding, or Moulding, board. (a) See Follow board, under Follow, v. t. (b) A board on which bread or pastry is kneaded and shaped.  -- Molding, or Moulding, machine. (a) (Woodworking) A planing machine for making moldings. (b) (Founding) A machine to assist in making molds for castings.  -- Molding, or Moulding, mill, a mill for shaping timber.  -- Molding, or Moulding, sand (Founding), a kind of sand containing clay, used in making molds.  MOLDWARP; MOULDWARP Mold"warp, Mould"warp, n. Etym: [OE. moldwerp: AS. molde soil + weorpan to throw up; cf. OD. molworp, G. maulwurf, Icel. moldvarpa, Dan. muldvarp. See Mold soil, Warp, and cf. Mole the animal.] (Zoöl.)  See Mole the animal. Spenser.  MOLDY; MOULDY Mold"y, Mould"y, a. [Compar. Moldier or Mouldier; superl. Moldiest or Mouldiest.] Etym: [From Mold the growth of fungi.]  Overgrown with, or containing, mold; as, moldy cheese or bread. 

MOLE:  A mass of fleshy or other more or less solid matter generated in the uterus. 

MOLE:  A mound or massive work formed of masonry or large stones, etc., laid in the sea, often extended either in a right line or an arc of a circle before a port which it serves to defend from the violence of the waves, thus protecting ships in a harbor; also, sometimes, the harbor itself. Brande & C. 

MOLE:  Any insectivore of the family Talpidæ. They have minute eyes and ears, soft fur, and very large and strong fore feet.  Note: The common European mole, or moldwarp (Talpa Europæa), is noted for its extensive burrows. The common American mole, or shrew mole (Scalops aquaticus), and star-nosed mole (Condylura cristata) have similar habits.  Note: In the Scriptures, the name is applied to two unindentified animals, perhaps the chameleon and mole rat.  2. A plow of peculiar construction, for forming underground drains. [U.S.] Duck mole. See under Duck.  -- Golden mole. See Chrysochlore.  -- Mole cricket (Zoöl.), an orthopterous insect of the genus Gryllotalpa, which excavates subterranean galleries, and throws up mounds of earth resembling those of the mole. It is said to do damage by injuring the roots of plants. The common European species (Gryllotalpa vulgaris), and the American (G. borealis), are the best known.  -- Mole rat (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Old World rodents of the genera Spalax, Georychus, and several allied genera. They are molelike in appearance and habits, and their eyes are small or rudimentary.  -- Mole shrew (Zoöl.), any one of several species of short-tailed American shrews of the genus Blarina, esp. B. brevicauda.  -- Water mole, the duck mole. 

MOLEBUT:  The sunfish (Orthagoriscus, or Mola). [Written also molebat.] 

MOLECAST:  A little elevation of earth made by a mole; a molehill. Mortimer. 

MOLECH:  The fire god of the Ammonites, to whom human sacrifices were offered; Moloch. Lev. xviii. 21. 

MOLECULAR:  Pertaining to, connected with, produced by, or consisting of, molecules; as, molecular forces; molecular groups of atoms, etc. Molecular attraction (Phys.), attraction acting between the molecules of bodies, and at insensible distances.  -- Molecular weight (Chem.), the weight of a molecule of any gas or vapor as compared with the hydrogen atom as a standard; the sum of the atomic weights of the constituents of a molecule; thus, the molecular weight of water (H2O) is 18. 

MOLECULARITY:  The state of consisting of molecules; the state or quality of being molecular. 

MOLECULARLY:  With molecules; in the manner of molecules. W. R. Grove. 

MOLECULE:  The smallest part of any substance which possesses the characteristic properties and qualities of that substance, and which can exist alone in a free state.  3. (Chem.)  A group of atoms so united and combined by chemical affinity that they form a complete, integrated whole, being the smallest portion of any particular compound that can exist in a free state; as, a molecule of water consists of two atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Cf. Atom.  MOLE-EYED Mole"-eyed`, a.  Having eyes like those of the mole; having imperfect sight. 

MOLEHILL:  A little hillock of earth thrown up by moles working under ground; hence, a very small hill, or an insignificant obstacle or difficulty. Having leapt over such mountains, lie down before a molehill. South.  MOLENDINACEOUS; MOLENDINARIOUS Mo*len`di*na"ceous, Mo*len`di*na"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. molendinarius, fr. molendinum a mill, fr. molere to grind.] (Bot.)  Resembling the sails of a windmill. 

MOLESKIN:  Any fabric having a thick soft shag, like the fur of a mole; esp., a kind of strong twilled fustian. 

MOLEST:  To trouble; to disturb; to render uneasy; to interfere with; to vex. They have molested the church with needless opposition. Hooker.  Syn.  -- To trouble; disturb; incommode; inconvenience; annoy; vex; tease. 

MOLEST:  Molestation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOLESTATION:  The act of molesting, or the state of being molested; disturbance; annoyance. 

MOLESTER:  One who molests. 

MOLESTFUL:  Troublesome; vexatious. [R.]  MOLESTIE; MOLESTY Mo*les"tie, Mo*les"ty, n. Etym: [L. molestia.]  Molestation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOLEWARP:  See Moldwarp. 

MOLIMINOUS:  Of great bulk or consequence; very important. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

MOLINE:  The crossed iron that supports the upper millstone by resting on the spindle; a millrind. Cross moline (Her.), a cross each arm of which is divided at the end into two rounded branches or divisions. 

MOLINISM:  The doctrines of the Molinists, somewhat resembling the tenets of the Arminians. 

MOLINIST:  A follower of the opinions of Molina, a Spanish Jesuit (in respect to grace); an opposer of the Jansenists. 

MOLL:  Minor; in the minor mode; as, A moll, that is, A minor. 

MOLLAH:  One of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkish title of respect for a religious and learned man. [Written also moolah.] 

MOLLE:  Lower by a semitone; flat; as, E molle, that is, E flat. 

MOLLEBART:  An agricultural implement used in Flanders, consisting of a kind of large shovel drawn by a horse and guided by a man. [Written also mollebært and mouldebært.] Simmonds. 

MOLLEMOKE:  Any one of several species of large pelagic petrels and fulmars, as Fulmarus glacialis, of the North Atlantic, and several species of Æstrelata, of the Southern Ocean. See Fulmar. [Written also mollymawk, malmock, mollemock, mallemocke, etc.] 

MOLLIENT:  Serving to soften; assuaging; emollient. 

MOLLIENTLY:  Assuagingly. 

MOLLIFIABLE:  Capable of being mollified. 

MOLLIFICATION:  The act of mollifying, or the state of being mollified; a softening. Chaucer. 

MOLLIFIER:  One who, or that which, mollifies. Bacon. 

MOLLINET:  A little mill. 

MOLLIPILOSE:  Having soft hairs; downy. 

MOLLITIES:  Unnatural softness of any organ or part. Dunglison. 

MOLLITUDE:  Softness; effeminacy; weakness. [R.] 

MOLLUSC:  Same as Mollusk. 

MOLLUSCA:  One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, including the classes Cephalopoda, Gastropoda, PteropodaScaphopoda, and Lamellibranchiata, or Conchifera. These animals have an unsegmented bilateral body, with most of the organs and parts paired, but not repeated longitudinally. Most of them develop a mantle, which incloses either a branchial or a pulmonary cavity. They are generally more or less covered and protected by a calcareous shell, which may be univalve, bivalve, or multivalve.  Note: Formerly the Brachiopoda, Bryzoa, and Tunicata were united with the Lamellibranchiata in an artificial group called Acephala, which was also included under Mollusca. See Molluscoudea. 

MOLLUSCAN:  Of or pertaining to mollusks.  -- n.  A mollusk; one of the Mollusca. 

MOLLUSCOID:  Resembling the true mollusks; belonging to the Molluscoidea.  -- n.  One of the Molluscoidea. 

MOLLUSCOIDAL:  Molluscoid. 

MOLLUSCOIDEA:  A division of Invertebrata which includes the classes Brachiopoda and Bryozoa; -- called also Anthoid Mollusca.  Note: Originally the Tunicata were included under Molluscoidea, from which they are known to differ widely in structure and embryology. Molluscoidea were formerly considered a subdivision of Mollusca, but they are now known to have more relationship with Annelida than with Mollusca. 

MOLLUSCOUS:  Molluscan. 

MOLLUSCUM:  A cutaneous disease characterized by numerous tumors, of various forms, filled with a thick matter; -- so called from the resemblance of the tumors to some molluscous animals. Dunglison. 

MOLLUSK:  One of the Mollusca. [Written also mollusc.] 

MOLLY:  Same as Mollemoke. 

MOLLY:  A pet or colloquial name for Mary. Molly cottontail. (Zoöl.) See Cottontail.  -- Molly Maguire (ma*gwir"); pl. Molly Maguires (-gwirz). (a) A member of a secret association formed among the tenantry in Ireland about 1843, principally for the purpose of intimidating law officers and preventing the service of legal writs. Its members disguised themselves in the dress of women. (b) A member of a similar association of Irishmen organized in the anthracite coal region of Pennsylvania, about 1854, for the purpose of intimidating employers and officers of the law, and for avenging themselves by murder on persons obnoxious to them. The society was broken up by criminal prosecutions in 1876.  MOLLY-MAWK Mol"ly-mawk`, n. (Zoöl.)  See Mollemoke. 

MOLOCH:  The fire god of the Ammonites in Canaan, to whom human sacrifices were offered; Molech. Also applied figuratively.  2. (Zoöl.)  A spiny Australian lizard (Moloch horridus). The horns on the head and numerous spines on the body give it a most formidable appearance.  MOLOKANE; MOLOKANY Mol`o*ka"ne, Mol`o*ka"ny, n. pl. [Russ. molokane.]  See Raskolnik. 

MOLOSSE:  See Molossus. 

MOLOSSES:  Molasses. [Obs.] 

MOLOSSINE:  A bat of the genus Molossus, as the monk bat. 

MOLOSSUS:  A foot of three long syllables. [Written also molosse.] 

MOLT:  of Melt. Chaucer. Spenser.  MOLT; MOULT Molt, Moult, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Molted or Moulted; p. pr. & vb. n. Molting or Moulting.] Etym: [OE. mouten, L. mutare. See Mew to molt, and cf. Mute, v. t.] [The prevalent spelling is, perhaps, moult; but as the u has not been inserted in the otherwords of this class, as, bolt, colt, dolt, etc., it is desirable to complete the analogy by the spelling molt.]  To shed or cast the hair, feathers, skin, horns, or the like, as an animal or a bird. Bacon.  MOLT; MOULT Molt, Moult, v. t.  To cast, as the hair, skin, feathers, or the like; to shed.  MOLT; MOULT Molt, Moult, n.  The act or process of changing the feathers, hair, skin, etc.; molting. 

MOLTABLE:  Capable of assuming a molten state; meltable; fusible. [Obs.] 

MOLTO:  Much; very; as, molto adagio, very slow. 

MOLY:  A kind of garlic (Allium Moly) with large yellow flowers; -- called also golden garlic. 

MOLYBDATE:  A salt of molybdic acid. 

MOLYBDENA:  See Molybdenite. 

MOLYBDENITE:  A mineral occurring in soft, lead-gray, foliated masses or scales, resembling graphite; sulphide of molybdenum. 

MOLYBDENOUS:  See Molybdous. 

MOLYBDENUM:  A rare element of the chromium group, occurring in nature in the minerals molybdenite and wulfenite, and when reduced obtained as a hard, silver-white, difficulty fusible metal. Symbol Mo. Atomic weight 95.9. 

MOLYBDIC:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif., designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence, as contrasted with molybdous compounds; as, molybdic oxide. 

MOLYBDITE:  Molybdic ocher. 

MOLYBDOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif., designating those compounds in which molybdenum has a lower valence as contrasted with molybdic compounds. 

MOME:  A dull, silent person; a blockhead. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MOMENT:  An infinitesimal change in a varying quantity; an increment or decrement. [Obs.]  6. (Mech.)  Tendency, or measure of tendency, to produce motion, esp. motion about a fixed point or axis. Moment of a couple (Mech.), the product of either of its forces into the perpendicular distance between them.  -- Moment of a force. (Mech.) (a) With respect to a point, the product of the intensity of the force into the perpendicular distance from the point to the line of direction of the force. (b) With respect to a line, the product of that component of the force which is perpendicular to the plane passing through the line and the point of application of the force, into the shortest distance between the line and this point. (c) With respect to a plane that is parallel to the force, the product of the force into the perpendicular distance of its point of application from the plane.  -- Moment of inertia, of a rotating body, the sum of the mass of each particle of matter of the body into the square of its distance from the axis of rotation; -- called also moment of rotation and moment of the mass.  -- Statical moment, the product of a force into its leverage; the same as moment of a force with respect to a point, line, etc.  -- Virtual moment. See under Virtual.  Syn.  -- Instant; twinkling; consequence; weight; force; value; consideration; signification; avail. 

MOMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to moment or momentum. 

MOMENTALLY:  For a moment. [Obs.]  MOMENTANEOUS; MOMENTANY Mo`men*ta"ne*ous, Mo"men*ta*ny, a. Etym: [L. momentaneus: cf. F. momentané.]  Momentary. [Obs.] Hooker. "Momentany as a sound." Shak. 

MOMENTARILY:  Every moment; from moment to moment. Shenstone. 

MOMENTARINESS:  The state or quality of being momentary; shortness of duration. 

MOMENTARY:  Done in a moment; continuing only a moment; lasting a very short time; as, a momentary pang. This momentary joy breeds months of pain. Shak. 

MOMENTOUS:  Of moment or consequence; very important; weighty; as, a momentous decision; momentous affairs.  -- Mo*men"tous*ly, adv.  -- Mo*men"tous*ness, n. 

MOMENTUM:  The quantity of motion in a moving body, being always proportioned to the quantity of matter multiplied into the velocity; impetus.  2. Essential element, or constituent element. I shall state the several momenta of the distinction in separate propositions. Sir W. Hamilton. 

MOMIER:  A name given in contempt to strict Calvinists in Switzerland, France, and some parts of Germany, in the early part of the 19th century. 

MOMMERY:  See Mummery. Rowe. 

MOMOT:  See Motmot. 

MOMUS:  The god of mockery and censure.  MON- Mon-.  Same as Mono-. 

MONA:  A small, handsome, long-tailed West American monkey (Cercopithecus mona). The body is dark olive, with a spot of white on the haunches. 

MONACHAL:  Of or pertaining to monks or a monastic life; monastic. 

MONACHISM:  The system and influences of a monastic life; monasticism. 

MONACID:  Having one hydrogen atom replaceable by a negative or acid atom or radical; capable of neutralizing a monobasic acid; -- said of bases, and of certain metals. 

MONAD:  The elementary and indestructible units which were conceived of as endowed with the power to produce all the changes they undergo, and thus determine all physical and spiritual phenomena.  3. (Zoöl.)  One of the smallest flangellate Infusoria; esp., the species of the genus Monas, and allied genera.  4. (Biol.)  A simple, minute organism; a primary cell, germ, or plastid.  5. (Chem.)  An atom or radical whose valence is one, or which can combine with, be replaced by, or exchanged for, one atom of hydrogen. Monad deme (Biol.), in tectology, a unit of the first order of individuality. 

MONADARIA:  The Infusoria. 

MONADELPHIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having the stamens united into a tube, or ring, by the filaments, as in the Mallow family.  MONADELPHIAN; MONADELPHOUS Mon`a*del"phi*an, Mon`a*del"phous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monadelphie.] (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the Monadelphia; having the stamens united in one body by the filaments.  MONADIC; MONADICAL Mo*nad"ic, Mo*nad"ic*al, a.  Of, pertaining to, or like, a monad, in any of its senses. See Monad, n. Dr. H. More. 

MONADIFORM:  Having the form of a monad; resembling a monad in having one or more filaments of vibratile protoplasm; as, monadiform young. 

MONADOLOGY:  The doctrine or theory of monads. 

MONAL:  Any Asiatic pheasant of the genus Lophophorus, as the Impeyan pheasant. 

MONAMIDE:  An amido compound with only one amido group. 

MONAMINE:  A basic compound containing one amido group; as, methyl amine is a monamine. 

MONANDER:  One of the Monandria. 

MONANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants embracing those having but a single stamen. 

MONANDRIAN:  Same as Monandrous. 

MONANDRIC:  Of or pertaining to monandry; practicing monandry as a system of marriage. 

MONANDROUS:  Of or pertaining to the monandria; having but one stamen. 

MONANDRY:  The possession by a woman of only one husband at the same time; -- contrasted with polyandry. 

MONANTHOUS:  Having but one flower; one-flowered. Gray. 

MONARCH:  A very large red and black butterfly (Danais Plexippus); -- called also milkweed butterfly. 

MONARCH:  Superior to others; preëminent; supreme; ruling. "Monarch savage." Pope. 

MONARCHAL:  Pertaining to a monarch; suiting a monarch; sovoreign; regal; imperial. Satan, whom now transcendent glory raised Above his fellows, with monarchal pride. Milton. 

MONARCHESS:  A female monarch. [Obs.] 

MONARCHIAL:  Monarchic. Burke. 

MONARCHIAN:  One of a sect in the early Christian church which rejected the doctrine of the Trinity; -- called also patripassian.  MONARCHIC; MONARCHICAL Mo*nar"chic, Mo*nar"chic*al, a. Etym: [F. monarchique, Gr.  Of or pertaining to a monarch, or to monarchy. Burke.  -- Mo*nar"chic*al*ly, adv. 

MONARCHISM:  The principles of, or preference for, monarchy. 

MONARCHIST:  An advocate of, or believer in, monarchy. 

MONARCHIZE:  To play the sovereign; to act the monarch. [R.] Shak. 

MONARCHIZE:  To rule; to govern. [R.] 

MONARCHIZER:  One who monarchizes; also, a monarchist. 

MONARCHO:  The nickname of a crackbrained Italian who fancied himself an emperor. [Obs.] Shak. 

MONAS:  A genus of minute flagellate Infusoria of which there are many species, both free and attached. See Illust. under Monad. 

MONASTERIAL:  Of or pertaining to monastery, or to monastic life.  -- Mon`as*te"ri*al*ly, adv. 

MONASTERY:  A house of religious retirement, or of secusion from ordinary temporal concerns, especially for monks; -- more rarely applied to such a house for females.  Syn.  -- Convent; abbey; priory. See Cloister. 

MONASTIC:  A monk.  MONASTIC; MONASTICAL Mo*nas"tic, Mo*nas"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. monastique. See Monastery.]  1. Of or pertaining to monasteries, or to their occupants, rules, etc., as, monastic institutions or rules.  2. Secluded from temporal concerns and devoted to religion; recluse. "A life monastic." Denham. 

MONASTICALLY:  In a monastic manner. 

MONASTICISM:  The monastic life, system, or condition. Milman. 

MONASTICON:  A book giving an account of monasteries. 

MONAXIAL:  Having only one axis; developing along a single line or plane; as, monaxial development. 

MONAZITE:  A mineral occurring usually in small isolated crystals, -- phosphate of the cerium metals. 

MONDAY:  The second day of the week; the day following Sunday. 

MONDE:  The world; a globe as an ensign of royalty. [R.] A. Drummond. Le beau monde Etym: [F.], fashionable society. See Beau monde.  -- Demi monde. See Demimonde. 

MONE:  The moon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MONE:  A moan. [Obs.] Chaucer.  MONECIAN; MONECIOUS Mo*ne"cian, Mo*ne"cious, a. (Bot.)  See Monoecian, and Monoecious. 

MONEMBRYONY:  The condition of an ovule having but a single embryo.  -- Mon*em`bry*on"ic, a. 

MONER:  One of the Monera. 

MONERA:  The lowest division of rhizopods, including those which resemble the amoebas, but are destitute of a nucleus. 

MONERAL:  Of or pertaining to the Monera. 

MONERAN:  Of or pertaining to the Monera.  -- n.  One of the Monera. 

MONERON:  One of the Monera. 

MONERULA:  A germ in that stage of development in which its form is simply that of a non-nucleated mass of protoplasm. It precedes the one- celled germ. So called from its likeness to a moner. Haeckel. 

MONESIA:  The bark, or a vegetable extract brought in solid cakes from South America and believed to be derived from the bark, of the tree Chrysophyllum glycyphloeum. It is used as an alterative and astringent. 

MONESIN:  The acrid principle of Monesia, sometimes used as a medicine. 

MONEST:  To warn; to admonish; to advise. [Obs.] Wyclif (2 Cor. v. 20). 

MONETARY:  Of or pertaining to money, or consisting of money; pecuniary. "The monetary relations of Europe." E. Everett. Monetary unit, the standard of a national currency, as the dollar in the United States, the pound in England, the franc in France, the mark in Germany. 

MONETH:  A month. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MONETIZATION:  The act or process of converting into money, or of adopting as money; as, the monetization of silver. 

MONETIZE:  To convert into money; to adopt as current money; as, to monetize silver. 

MONEY:  To supply with money. [Obs.] 

MONEYLESS:  Destitute of money; penniless; impecunious. Swift.  MONEY-MAKER Mon"ey-mak`er, n.  1. One who coins or prints money; also, a counterfeiter of money. [R.]  2. One who accumulates money or wealth; specifically, one who makes money-getting his governing motive.  MONEY-MAKING Mon"ey-mak`ing, n.  The act or process of making money; the acquisition and accumulation of wealth. Obstinacy in money-making. Milman.  MONEY-MAKING Mon"ey-mak`ing, a.  1. Affording profitable returns; lucrative; as, a money-making business.  2. Sussessful in gaining money, and devoted to that aim; as, a money- making man. 

MONEYWORT:  A trailing plant (Lysimachia Nummularia), with rounded opposite leaves and solitary yellow flowers in their axils. 

MONGCORN:  See Mangcorn. 

MONGER:  To deal in; to make merchandise of; to traffic in; -- used chiefly of discreditable traffic. 

MONGOL:  One of the Mongols.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols. 

MONGOLIAN:  Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols.  -- n.  One of the Mongols. 

MONGOLIC:  See Mongolian. 

MONGOLOID:  Resembling a Mongol or the Mongols; having race characteristics, such as color, hair, and features, like those of the Mongols. Huxley.  MONGOLS; MONGOLIANS Mon"gols, Mon*go"li*ans, n. pl. (Ethnol.)  One of the great races of man, including the greater part of the inhabitants of China, Japan, and the interior of Asia, with branches in Northern Europe and other parts of the world. By some American Indians are considered a branch of the Mongols. In a more restricted sense, the inhabitants of Mongolia and adjacent countries, including the Burats and the Kalmuks.  MONGOOSE; MONGOOS Mon"goose, Mon"goos, n. (Zoöl.)  A species of ichneumon (Herpestes griseus), native of India. Applied also to other allied species, as the African banded mongoose (Crossarchus fasciatus). [Written also mungoose, mungoos, mungous.] 

MONGREL:  The progeny resulting from a cross between two breeds, as of domestic animals; anything of mixed breed. Drayton. 

MONGREL:  Not of a pure breed.  2. Of mixed kinds; as, mongrel language. 

MONGRELIZE:  To cause to be mongrel; to cross breeds, so as to produce mongrels.  'MONGST 'Mongst, prep.  See Amongst. 

MONIED:  See Moneyed. 

MONIFIER:  A fossil fish. 

MONILIALES:  The largest of the three orders into which the Fungi Imperfecti are divided, including various forms. 

MONILIFORM:  Joined or constricted, at regular intervals, so as to resemble a string of beads; as, a moniliform root; a moniliform antenna. See Illust. of Antenna. 

MONIMENT:  Something to preserve memory; a reminder; a monument; hence, a mark; an image; a superscription; a record. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MONISH:  To admonish; to warn. See Admonish. [Archaic] Ascham. 

MONISHER:  One who monishes; an admonisher. [Archaic] 

MONISHMENT:  Admonition. [Archaic] 

MONISM:  That doctrine which refers all phenomena to a single ultimate constituent or agent; -- the opposite of dualism.  Note: The doctrine has been held in three generic forms: matter and its phenomena have been explained as a modification of mind, involving an idealistic monism; or mind has been explained by and resolved into matter, giving a materialistic monism; or, thirdly, matter, mind, and their phenomena have been held to be manifestations or modifications of some one substance, like the substance of Spinoza, or a supposed unknown something of some evolutionists, which is capable of an objective and subjective aspect.  2. (Biol.)  See Monogenesis, 1. 

MONIST:  A believer in monism. 

MONISTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or involving, monism. 

MONITION:  A process in the nature of a summons to appear and answer.  4. (Eccl. Law)  An order monishing a party complained against to obey under pain of the law. Shipley. 

MONITIVE:  Conveying admonition; admonitory. Barrow. 

MONITOR:  Any large Old World lizard of the genus Varanus; esp., the Egyptian species (V. Niloticus), which is useful because it devours the eggs and young of the crocodile. It is sometimes five or six feet long.  4. Etym: [So called from the name given by Captain Ericson, its designer, to the first ship of the kind.]  An ironclad war vessel, very low in the water, and having one or more heavily-armored revolving turrets, carrying heavy guns.  5. (Mach.)  A tool holder, as for a lathe, shaped like a low turret, and capable of being revolved on a vertical pivot so as to bring successively the several tools in holds into proper position for cutting. Monitor top, the raised central portion, or clearstory, of a car roof, having low windows along its sides. 

MONITORIALLY:  In a monitorial manner.  MONITOR NOZZLE Monitor nozzle.  A nozzle capable of turning completely round in a horizontal plane and having a limited play in a vertical plane, used in hydraulic mining, fire-extinguishing apparatus, etc. 

MONITORSHIP:  The post or office of a monitor. 

MONITORY:  Giving admonition; instructing by way of caution; warning. Losses, miscarriages, and disappointments, are monitory and instructive. L'Estrange. 

MONITORY:  Admonition; warning; especially, a monition proceeding from an ecclesiastical court, but not addressed to any one person.  MONITRESS; MONITRIX Mon"i*tress, Mon"i*trix, n.  A female monitor. 

MONK:  A blotch or spot of ink on a printed page, caused by the ink not being properly distributed. It is distinguished from a friar, or white spot caused by a deficiency of ink.  3. A piece of tinder made of agaric, used in firing the powder hose or train of a mine.  4. (Zoöl.) (a) A South American monkey (Pithecia monachus); also applied to other species, as Cebus xanthocephalus. (b) The European bullfinch. Monk bat (Zoöl.), a South American and West Indian bat (Molossus nasutus); -- so called because the males live in communities by themselves.  -- Monk bird(Zoöl.), the friar bird.  -- Monk seal (Zoöl.), a species of seal (Monachus albiventer) inhabiting the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea, and the adjacent parts of the Atlantic.  -- Monk's rhubarb (Bot.), a kind of dock; -- also called patience (Rumex Patientia). 

MONKEY:  To act or treat as a monkey does; to ape; to act in a grotesque or meddlesome manner. To monkey with, to handle in a meddlesome manner. [Colloq.]  MONKEY-BREAD Mon"key-bread`, n. (Bot.)  The fruit of the Adansonia digitata; also, the tree. See Adansonia.  MONKEY-CUP Mon"key-cup`, n. (Bot.)  See Nepenthes.  MONKEY-POT Mon"key-pot`, n. (Zoöl.)  The fruit of two South American trees (Lecythis Ollaria, and L. Zabucajo), which have for their fruit large, pot-shaped, woody capsules containing delicious nuts, and opening almost explosively by a circular lid at the top. Vases and pots are made of this capsule.  MONKEY'S PUZZLE Mon"key's puz"zle. (Bot.)  A lofty coniferous Chilian tree (Araucaria imbricata), the branches of which are so crowded and intertwisted "as to puzzle a monkey to climb." The edible nuts are over an inch long, and are called piñon by the Chilians. 

MONKEYTAIL:  A short, round iron bar or lever used in naval gunnery. Totten. 

MONKFLOWER:  A name of certain curious orchids which bear three kinds of flowers formerly referred to three genera, but now ascertained to be sexually different forms of the same genus (Catasetum tridentatum, etc.). 

MONKING:  Monkish. [R.] Coleridge. 

MONKISH:  Like a monk, or pertaining to monks; monastic; as, monkish manners; monkish dress; monkish solitude.  -- Monk"ish*ness, n. 

MONKLY:  Like, or suitable to, a monk. [R.] 

MONKSHOOD:  A plant of the genus Aconitum; aconite. See Aconite.  MONK'S SEAM Monk's" seam`. (Naut.)  An extra middle seam made at the junction of two breadths of canvas, ordinarily joined by only two rows of stitches.  MONO-; MON- Mon"o-, Mon-. Etym: [Gr.  A prefix signifying one, single, alone; as, monocarp, monopoly; (Chem.) indicating that a compound contains one atom, radical, or group of that to the name of which it is united; as, monoxide, monosulphide, monatomic, etc. 

MONO:  The black howler of Central America (Mycetes villosus). 

MONOBASIC:  Capable of being neutralized by a univalent base or basic radical; having but one acid hydrogen atom to be replaced; -- said of acids; as, acetic, nitric, and hydrochloric acids are monobasic. 

MONOCARBONIC:  Containing one carboxyl group; as, acetic acid is a monocarbonic acid. 

MONOCARDIAN:  Having a single heart, as fishes and amphibians.  -- n.  An animal having a single heart. 

MONOCARP:  A monocarpic plant. 

MONOCARPELLARY:  Consisting of a single carpel, as the fruit of the pea, cherry, and almond.  MONOCARPIC; MONOCARPOUS Mon`o*car"pic, Mon`o*car"pous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monocarpe.] (Bot.)  Bearing fruit but once, and dying after fructification, as beans, maize, mustard, etc.  Note: Annual and biennual herbs are monocarpic, so also some plants of longer duration, as the century plant. 

MONOCEPHALOUS:  Having a solitary head; -- said of unbranched composite plants. 

MONOCEROS:  The Unicorn, a constellation situated to the east Orion. 

MONOCHLAMYDEOUS:  Having a single floral envelope, that is, a calyx without a corolla, or, possibly, in rare cases, a corolla without a calyx. 

MONOCHORD:  An instrument for experimenting upon the mathematical relations of musical sounds. It consists of a single string stretched between two bridges, one or both of which are movable, and which stand upon a graduated rule for the purpose of readily changing and measuring the length of the part of the string between them. 

MONOCHROMATIC:  Consisting of one color, or presenting rays of light of one color only. Monochromatic lamp (Opt.),a lamp whose flame yields rays of some one homogenous light. It is of great importance in optical experiments. 

MONOCHROME:  A painting or drawing in a single color; a picture made with a single color. 

MONOCHROMIC:  Made, or done, with a single color; as, a monochromic picture. 

MONOCHROMY:  The art of painting or drawing in monochrome. 

MONOCHRONIC:  Existing at the same time; contemporaneous. 

MONOCILIATED:  Having but one cilium. 

MONOCLE:  An eyeglass for one eye. Simmonds. 

MONOCLINAL:  Having one oblique inclination; -- applied to strata that dip in only one direction from the axis of elevation. 

MONOCLINE:  A monoclinal fold. 

MONOCLINIC:  Having one oblique intersection; -- said of that system of crystallization in which the vertical axis is inclined to one, but at right angles to the other, lateral axis. See Crystallization. 

MONOCLINOUS:  Hermaphrodite, or having both stamens and pistils in every flower. 

MONOCONDYLA:  A group of vertebrates, including the birds and reptiles, or those that have only one occipital condyle; the Sauropsida. 

MONOCOTYL:  Any monocotyledonous plant. 

MONOCOTYLE:  Monocotyledonous. 

MONOCOTYLEDON:  A plant with only one cotyledon, or seed lobe.  Note: The plural, monocotyledons, is used as the name of a large class of plants, and is generally understood to be equivalent to the term endogens. 

MONOCOTYLEDONOUS:  Having only one cotyledon, seed lobe, or seminal leaf. Lindley. 

MONOCRACY:  Government by a single person; undivided rule. Sydney Smith. 

MONOCRAT:  One who governs alone. 

MONOCROTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or showing, monocrotism; as, a monocrotic pulse; a pulse of the monocrotic type. 

MONOCROTISM:  That condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve or sphygmogram shows but a single crest, the dicrotic elevation entirely disappearing. 

MONOCULE:  A small crustacean with one median eye. 

MONOCULOUS:  Monocular. Glanvill. 

MONOCYSTIC:  Of or pertaining to a division (Monocystidea) of Gregarinida, in which the body consists of one sac. 

MONODACTYLOUS:  Having but one finger or claw.  MONODELPH; MONODELPHIAN Mon"o*delph, Mon`o*del"phi*an, n. (Zoöl.)  One of the Monodelphia. 

MONODELPHIA:  The group that includes all ordinary or placental mammals; the Placentalia. See Mammalia.  MONODELPHIC; MONODELPHOUS Mon`o*del"phic, Mon`o*del"phous, a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Monodelphia.  MONODIC; MONODICAL Mo*nod"ic, Mo*nod"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  1. Belonging to a monody.  2. (Mus.) (a) For one voice; monophonic. (b) Homophonic; -- applied to music in which the melody is confined to one part, instead of being shared by all the parts as in the style called polyphonic. 

MONODIMETRIC:  Dimetric. 

MONODIST:  A writer of a monody.  MONODRAMA; MONODRAME Mon"o*dra`ma, Mon"o*drame, n. Etym: [Mono- + Gr.  A drama acted, or intended to be acted, by a single person. 

MONODRAMATIC:  Pertaining to a monodrama. 

MONODY:  A species of poem of a mournful character, in which a single mourner expresses lamentation; a song for one voice. 

MONODYNAMIC:  Possessing but one capacity or power. "Monodynamic men." De Quincey. 

MONODYNAMISM:  The theory that the various forms of activity in nature are manifestations of the same force. G. H. Lewes. 

MONOECIA:  A Linnæan class of plants, whose stamens and pistils are in distinct flowers in the same plant. 

MONOECIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Monoecia; monoecious.  -- n.  One of the Monoecia.  2. (Zoöl.)  A monoecious animal, as certain mollusks. 

MONOECIOUS:  Having the sexes united in one individual, as when male and female flowers grow upon the same individual plant; hermaphrodite; -- opposed to Ant: dioecious. 

MONOECISM:  The state or condition of being monoecious. 

MONOGAM:  One of the Monogamia. 

MONOGAMIA:  A Linnæan order of plants, having solitary flowers with united anthers, as in the genus Lobelia.  MONOGAMIAN; MONOGAMIC Mon`o*ga"mi*an, Mon`o*gam"ic, a. Etym: [See Monogamous.]  1. Pertaining to, or involving, monogamy.  2. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the Monogamia; having a simple flower with united anthers. 

MONOGAMIST:  One who practices or upholds monogamy. Goldsmith. 

MONOGAMOUS:  Same as Monogamian.  3. (Zoöl.)  Mating with but one of the opposite sex; -- said of birds and mammals. 

MONOGAMY:  State of being paired with a single mate. 

MONOGASTRIC:  Having but a single stomach. 

MONOGENESIS:  That form of reproduction which requires but one parent, as in reproduction by fission or in the formation of buds, etc., which drop off and form new individuals; asexual reproduction. Haeckel.  3. (Biol.)  The direct development of an embryo, without metamorphosis, into an organism similar to the parent organism; -- opposed to metagenesis. E. van Beneden. 

MONOGENETIC:  One in genesis; resulting from one process of formation; -- used of a mountain range. Dana.  2. (Biol.)  Relating to, or involving, monogenesis; as, the monogenetic school of physiologists, who admit but one cell as the source of all beings. 

MONOGENIC:  Of or pertaining to monogenesis.  2. (Zoöl.)  Producing only one kind of germs, or young; developing only in one way. 

MONOGENISM:  The theory or doctrine that the human races have a common origin, or constitute a single species. 

MONOGENIST:  One who maintains that the human races are all of one species; -- opposed to polygenist. 

MONOGENISTIC:  Monogenic. 

MONOGENOUS:  Of or pertaining to monogenesis; as, monogenous, or asexual, reproduction. 

MONOGENY:  The doctrine that the members of the human race have all a common origin. 

MONOGONEUTIC:  Having but one brood in a season. 

MONOGRAMMAL:  See Monogrammic. 

MONOGRAMMATIC:  Monogrammic. 

MONOGRAMMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a monogram. 

MONOGRAMMOUS:  Monogrammic. 

MONOGRAPH:  A written account or description of a single thing, or class of things; a special treatise on a particular subject of limited range. 

MONOGRAPHER:  A writer of a monograph.  MONOGRAPHIC; MONOGRAPHICAL Mon`o*graph"ic, Mon`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monographique.]  Of or pertaining to a monograph, or to a monography; as, a monographic writing; a monographic picture.  -- Mon`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

MONOGRAPHIST:  One who writes a monograph. 

MONOGRAPHOUS:  Monographic. [Obs.] 

MONOGYN:  One of the Monogynia. 

MONOGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants, including those which have only one style or stigma. 

MONOGYNIAN:  Pertaining to the Monogynia; monogynous.  -- n.  One of the Monogynia. 

MONOGYNOUS:  Of or pertaining to Monogynia; having only one style or stigma. 

MONOGYNY:  The state or condition of being monogynous. 

MONOHEMEROUS:  Lasting but one day. 

MONOICOUS:  Monoecious. 

MONOLATRY:  Worship of a single deity. 

MONOLITH:  A single stone, especially one of large size, shaped into a pillar, statue, or monument. 

MONOLITHAL:  Monolithic. 

MONOLITHIC:  Of or pertaining to a monolith; consisting of a single stone. 

MONOLOGIST:  One who soliloquizes; esp., one who monopolizes conversation in company. De Quincey. 

MONOLOGY:  The habit of soliloquizing, or of monopolizing conversation. It was not by an insolent usurpation that Coleridge persisted in monology through his whole life. De Quincey.  MONOMACHIA; MONOMACHY Mon`o*ma"chi*a, Mo*nom"a*chy, n. Etym: [L. monomachia, Gr.  A duel; single combat. "The duello or monomachia." Sir W. Scott. 

MONOMACHIST:  One who fights in single combat; a duelist. 

MONOMANE:  A monomaniac. [R.] 

MONOMANIA:  Derangement of the mind in regard of a single subject only; also, such a concentration of interest upon one particular subject or train of ideas to show mental derangement.  Syn.  -- Insanity; madness; alienation; aberration; derangement; mania. See Insanity. 

MONOMANIAC:  A person affected by monomania.  MONOMANIAC; MONOMANIACAL Mon`oma"ni*ac, Mon`oma"ni*a*cal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. monomaniaque.]  Affected with monomania, or partial derangement of intellect; caused by, or resulting from, monomania; as, a monomaniacal delusion. 

MONOME:  A monomial. 

MONOMEROUS:  Composed of solitary parts, as a flower with one sepal, one petal, one stamen, and one pistil.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having but one joint; -- said of the foot of certain insects. 

MONOMETALLIC:  Consisting of one metal; of or pertaining to monometallism. 

MONOMETALLISM:  The legalized use of one metal only, as gold, or silver, in the standard currency of a country, or as a standard of money values. See Bimetallism. 

MONOMETALLIST:  One who believes in monometallism as opposed to bimetallism, etc. 

MONOMETER:  A rhythmic series, consisting of a single meter. 

MONOMETRIC:  Same as Isometric. 

MONOMIAL:  A single algebraic expression; that is, an expression unconnected with any other by the sign of addition, substraction, equality, or inequality. 

MONOMIAL:  Consisting of but a single term or expression.  MONOMORPHIC; MONOMORPHOUS Mon`o*mor"phic, Mon`o*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Biol.)  Having but a single form; retaining the same form throughout the various stages of development; of the same or of an essentially similar type of structure; -- opposed to dimorphic, trimorphic, and polymorphic. 

MONOMPHALUS:  A form of double monster, in which two individuals are united by a common umbilicus.  MONOMYA; MONOMYARIA Mo*no"my*a, Mon`o*my*a"ri*a, n.pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  An order of lamellibranchs having but one muscle for closing the shell, as the oyster.  MONOMYARIAN; MONOMYARY Mon`o*my"a*ri*an, Mon`o*my"a*ry, a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Monomya.  -- n.  One of the Monomya. 

MONONOMIAL:  Monomyal.  MONOOUSIAN; MONOOUSIOUS Mon`o*ou"si*an, Mon`o*ou"si*ous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. (Theil.)  Having but one and the same nature or essence. 

MONOPATHY:  Suffering or sensibility in a single organ or function.  -- Mon`o*path"ic, a. 

MONOPERSONAL:  Having but one person, or form of existence. 

MONOPETALOUS:  Having only one petal, or the corolla in one piece, or composed of petals cohering so as to form a tube or bowl; gamopetalous.  Note: The most recent authors restrict this form to flowers having a solitary petal, as in species of Amorpha, and use gamopetalous for a corolla of several petals combined into one piece. See Illust. of Gamopetalous. 

MONOPHANOUS:  Having one the same appearance; having a mutual resemblance. 

MONOPHONIC:  Single-voiced; having but one part; as, a monophonic composition; -- opposed to Ant: polyphonic. 

MONOPHTHONGAL:  Consisting of, or pertaining to, a monophthong. 

MONOPHYLETIC:  Of or pertaining to a single family or stock, or to development from a single common parent form; -- opposed to polyphyletic; as, monophyletic origin. 

MONOPHYLLOUS:  One-leaved; composed of a single leaf; as, a monophyllous involucre or calyx. 

MONOPHYODONT:  Having but one set of teeth; -- opposed to diphyodont. 

MONOPHYSITE:  One of a sect, in the ancient church, who maintained that the human and divine in Jesus Christ constituted but one composite nature. Also used adjectively. 

MONOPHYSITICAL:  Of or pertaining to Monophysites, or their doctrines. 

MONOPLAST:  A monoplastic element. 

MONOPLASTIC:  That has one form, or retains its primary form, as, a monoplastic element. 

MONOPLEGIA:  Paralysis affecting a single limb. 

MONOPNEUMONA:  A suborder of Dipnoi, including the Ceratodus. [Written also monopneumonia.] 

MONOPODE:  A monopodium. 

MONOPODIAL:  Having a monopodium or a single and continuous axis, as a birchen twig or a cornstalk. 

MONOPODIUM:  A single and continuous vegetable axis; -- opposed to sympodium. 

MONOPODY:  A measure of but a single foot. 

MONOPOLER:  A monopolist. [Obs.] 

MONOPOLIST:  One who monopolizes; one who has a monopoly; one who favors monopoly. 

MONOPOLISTIC:  Of or pertaining to a monopolist. North Am. Rev. 

MONOPOLITE:  A monopolist. Sylvester. 

MONOPOLIZE:  To acquire a monopoly of; to have or get the exclusive privilege or means of dealing in, or the exclusive possession of; to engross the whole of; as, to monopolize the coffee trade; to monopolize land. 

MONOPOLIZER:  One who monopolizes. 

MONOPOLYLOGUE:  An exhibition in which an actor sustains many characters. 

MONOPSYCHISM:  The doctrine that there is but one immortal soul or intellect with which all men are endowed. 

MONOPTERAL:  Round and without a cella; consisting of a single ring of columns supporting a roof; -- said esp. of a temple. 

MONOPTERON:  A circular temple consisting of a roof supported on columns, without a cella. 

MONOPYRENOUS:  Having but a single stone or kernel. 

MONORGANIC:  Belonging to, or affecting, a single organ, or set of organs. 

MONORHINA:  The Marsipobranchiata. 

MONORHYME:  A composition in verse, in which all the lines end with the same rhyme.  MONOSACCHARIDE; MONOSACCHARID Mon`o*sac"cha*ride, n. Also -rid . [Mono- + saccharide.] (Chem.)  A simple sugar; any of a number of sugars (including the trioses, tetroses, pentoses, hexoses, etc.), not decomposable into simpler sugars by hydrolysis. Specif., as used by some, a hexose. The monosaccharides are all open-chain compounds containing hydroxyl groups and either an aldehyde group or a ketone group. 

MONOSEPALOUS:  Having only one sepal, or the calyx in one piece or composed of the sepals united into one piece; gamosepalous.  Note: The most recent writers restrict this term to flowers having a solarity sepal, and use gamosepalous for a calyx formed by several sepals combined into one piece. Cf. Monopetalous. 

MONOSPERM:  A monospermous plant.  MONOSPERMAL; MONOSPERMOUS Mon`o*sper"mal, Mon`o*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Mono- + Gr. monosperme.] (Bot.)  Having only one seed. 

MONOSPHERICAL:  Consisting of one sphere only. 

MONOSTICH:  A composition consisting of one verse only. 

MONOSTICHOUS:  Arranged in a single row on one side of an axis, as the flowers in grasses of the tribe Chloridæ. 

MONOSTROPHE:  A metrical composition consisting of a single strophe. 

MONOSTROPHIC:  Having one strophe only; not varied in measure; written in unvaried measure. Milton. 

MONOSULPHIDE:  A sulphide containing one atom of sulphur, and analogous to a monoxide; -- contrasted with a Ant: polysulphide; as, galena is a monosulphide. 

MONOSULPHURET:  See Monosulphide. 

MONOSYLLABIC:  Being a monosyllable, or composed of monosyllables; as, a monosyllabic word; a monosyllabic language.  -- Mon`o*syl*lab"ic*al*ly, adv. 

MONOSYLLABISM:  The state of consisting of monosyllables, or having a monosyllabic form; frequent occurrence of monosyllables. 

MONOSYLLABLE:  A word of one syllable. 

MONOSYLLABLED:  Formed into, or consisting of, monosyllables. Cleveland.  MONOSYMMETRIC; MONOSYMMETRICAL Mon`o*sym*met"ric, Mon`o*sym*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Mono- + symmetric, -ical.] (Crystallog.)  Same as Monoclinic. 

MONOTESSARON:  A single narrative framed from the statements of the four evangelists; a gospel harmony. [R.] 

MONOTHALAMA:  A division of Foraminifera including those that have only one chamber. 

MONOTHALAMAN:  A foraminifer having but one chamber. 

MONOTHALAMOUS:  One-chambered. 

MONOTHALMIC:  Formed from one pistil; -- said of fruits. R. Brown. 

MONOTHECAL:  Having a single loculament. 

MONOTHEISM:  The doctrine or belief that there is but one God. 

MONOTHEIST:  One who believes that there is but one God. 

MONOTHEISTIC:  Of or pertaining to monotheism.  MONOTHELISM; MONOTHELITISM Mo*noth"e*lism, Mo*noth"e*li*tism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monothélisme, monothélitisme.]  The doctrine of the Monothelites. 

MONOTHELITE:  One of an ancient sect who held that Christ had but one will as he had but one nature. Cf. Monophysite. Gibbon. 

MONOTHELITIC:  Of or pertaining to the Monothelites, or their doctrine. 

MONOTOCOUS:  Bearing fruit but once; monocarpic.  2. (Zoöl.)  Uniparous; laying a single egg. 

MONOTOMOUS:  Having a distinct cleavage in a single direction only. 

MONOTONE:  A single unvaried tone or sound.  2. (Rhet.)  The utterance of successive syllables, words, or sentences, on one unvaried key or line of pitch.  MONOTONIC; MONOTONICAL Mon`o*ton"ic, Mon`o*ton"ic*al, a.  Of, pertaining to, or uttered in, a monotone; monotonous. "Monotonical declamation." Chesterfield. 

MONOTONIST:  One who talks in the same strain or on the same subject until weariness is produced. Richardson. 

MONOTONOUS:  Uttered in one unvarying tone; continued with dull uniformity; characterized by monotony; without change or variety; wearisome.  -- Mo*not"o*nous*ly, adv.  -- Mo*not"o*nous*ness, n. 

MONOTREMATA:  A subclass of Mammalia, having a cloaca in which the ducts of the urinary, genital, and alimentary systems terminate, as in birds. The female lays eggs like a bird. See Duck mole, under Duck, and Echidna. 

MONOTREMATOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Monotremata. 

MONOTREME:  One of the Monotremata. 

MONOTRIGLYPH:  A kind of intercolumniation in an entablature, in which only one triglyph and two metopes are introduced. 

MONOTROPA:  A genus of parasitic or saprophytic plants including the Indian pipe and pine sap. The name alludes to the dropping end of the stem.  MONOTYPE; MONOTYPIC Mon"o*type, Mon`o*typ"ic, a. Etym: [Mono- + -type: cf. F. monotype.] (Biol.)  Having but one type; containing but one representative; as, a monotypic genus, which contains but one species. 

MONOVALENT:  Having a valence of one; univalent. See Univalent. 

MONOXIDE:  An oxide containing one atom of oxygen in each molecule; as, barium monoxide. 

MONOXYLON:  A canoe or boat made from one piece of timber. 

MONOXYLOUS:  Made of one piece of wood. 

MONOZOA:  A division of Radiolaria; -- called also Monocyttaria.  -- Mon`o*zo"ic, a.  MONROE DOCTRINE Mon*roe" doc"trine.  See under Doctrine. 

MONSEIGNEUR:  My lord; -- a title in France of a person of high birth or rank; as, Monseigneur the Prince, or Monseigneur the Archibishop. It was given, specifically, to the dauphin, before the Revolution of 1789. (Abbrev. Mgr.)  MONSEL'S SALT Mon"sel's salt`. (Med.)  A basic sulphate of iron; -- so named from Monsel, a Frenchman.  MONSEL'S SOLUTION Mon"sel's so*lu"tion. Etym: [See Monsel's salt.] (Med.)  An aqueous solution of Monsel's salt, having valuable styptic properties. 

MONSIGNORE:  My lord; -- an ecclesiastical dignity bestowed by the pope, entitling the bearer to social and domestic rank at the papal court. (Abbrev. Mgr.) 

MONSOON:  A wind blowing part of the year from one direction, alternating with a wind from the opposite direction; -- a term applied particularly to periodical winds of the Indian Ocean, which blow from the southwest from the latter part of May to the middle of September, and from the northeast from about the middle of October to the middle of December. 

MONSTER:  Monstrous in size. Pope. 

MONSTER:  To make monstrous. [Obs.] Shak. 

MONSTRANCE:  A transparent pyx, in which the consecrated host is exposed to view. 

MONSTRATION:  The act of demonstrating; proof. [Obs.] A certain monstration. Grafton. 

MONSTROSITY:  The state of being monstrous, or out of the common order of nature; that which is monstrous; a monster. South. A monstrosity never changes the name or affects the immutability of a species. Adanson (Trans. ). 

MONSTROUS:  Exceedingly; very; very much. "A monstrous thick oil on the top." Bacon. And will be monstrous witty on the poor. Dryden. 

MONSTROUSLY:  In a monstrous manner; unnaturally; extraordinarily; as, monstrously wicked. "Who with his wife is monstrously in love." Dryden. 

MONSTROUSNESS:  The state or quality of being monstrous, unusual, extraordinary. Shak. 

MONSTRUOSITY:  Monstrosity. [Obs.] Shak. 

MONSTRUOUS:  Monstrous. [Obs.] 

MONT:  Mountain. 

MONTAIGNE:  A mountain. [Obs.] 

MONTANIC:  Of or pertaining to mountains; consisting of mountains. 

MONTANIST:  A follower of Mintanus, a Phrygian enthusiast of the second century, who claimed that the Holy Spirit, the Paraclete, dwelt in him, and employed him as an instrument for purifying and guiding men in the Christian life.  -- Mon`ta*nis"tic, Mon`ta*nis"tic*al, a. 

MONTANT:  An upward thrust or blow. Shak.  2. (Arch.)  An upright piece in any framework; a mullion or muntin; a stile. [R.] See Stile.  MONT DE PIETE Mont" de pi`é`té". Etym: [F., fr. It. monte di pietà mount of piety.]  One of certain public pawnbroking establishments which originated in Italy in the 15th century, the object of which was to lend money at a low rate of interest to poor people in need; -- called also mount of piety. The institution has been adopted in other countries, as in Spain and France. See Lombard-house. 

MONTE:  A favorite gambling game among Spaniards, played with dice or cards.  MONTE-ACID Monte`-ac"id, n. Etym: [F. monter to raise + acide acid.] (Chem.)  An acid elevator, as a tube through which acid is forced to some height in a sulphuric acid manufactory. 

MONTEITH:  See Monteth.  MONTE-JUS Monte"-jus", n. [F., fr. monter to bring up + jus juice.]  An apparatus for raising a liquid by pressure of air or steam in a reservoir containing the liquid. 

MONTEM:  A custom, formerly practiced by the scholars at Eton school, England, of giing every third year, on Whittuesday, to a hillock near the Bath road, and exacting money from all passers-by, to support at the university the senior scholar of the school. 

MONTERO:  An ancient kind of cap worn by horsemen or huntsmen. Bacon.  MONTESSORI METHOD Mon`tes*so"ri Meth"od. (Pedagogy)  A system of training and instruction, primarily for use with normal children aged from three to six years, devised by Dr. Maria Montessori while teaching in the "Houses of Childhood" (schools in the poorest tenement districts of Rome, Italy), and first fully described by her in 1909. Leading features are freedom for physical activity (no stationary desks and chairs), informal and individual instruction, the very early development of writing, and an extended sensory and motor training (with special emphasis on vision, touch, perception of movement, and their interconnections), mediated by a patented, standardized system of "didactic apparatus," which is declared to be "auto-regulative." Most of the chief features of the method are borrowed from current methods used in many institutions for training feeble-minded children, and dating back especially to the work of the French-American physician Edouard O. Seguin (1812- 80).  MONTETH; MONTEITH Mon*teth", Mon*teith", n.  A vessel in which glasses are washed; -- so called from the name of the inventor. New things produce new words, and thus Monteth Has by one vessel saved his name from death. King. 

MONTGOLFIER:  A balloon which ascends by the buoyancy of air heated by a fire; a fire balloon; -- so called from two brothers, Stephen and Joseph Montgolfier, of France, who first constructed and sent up a fire balloon. 

MONTH:  One of the twelve portions into which the year is divided; the twelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of a synodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name. In popular use, a period of four weeks is often called a month.  Note: In the common law, a month is a lunar month, or twenty-eight days, unless otherwise expressed. Blackstone. In the United States the rule of the common law is generally cahanged, and a month is declared to mean a calendar month. Cooley's Blackstone. A month mind. (a) A strong or abnormal desire. [Obs.] Shak. (b) A celebration made in remembrance of a deceased person a month after death. Strype.  -- Calendar months, the months as adjusted in the common or Gregorian calendar; April, June, September, and November, containing 30 days, and the rest 31, except February, which, in common years, has 28, and in leap years 29.  -- Lunar month, the period of one revolution of the moon, particularly a synodical revolution; but several kinds are distinguished, as the synodical month, or period from one new moon to the next, in mean length 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 2.87 s.; the nodical month, or time of revolution from one node to the same again, in length 27 d. 5 h. 5 m. 36 s.; the sidereal, or time of revolution from a star to the same again, equal to 27 d. 7 h. 43 m. 11.5 s.; the anomalistic, or time of revolution from perigee to perigee again, in length 27 d. 13 h. 18 m. 37.4 s.; and the tropical, or time of passing from any point of the ecliptic to the same again, equal to 27 d. 7 h. 43 m. 4.7 s.  -- Solar month, the time in which the sun passes through one sign of the zodiac, in mean length 30 d. 10 h. 29 m. 4.1 s. 

MONTHLING:  That which is a month old, or which lives for a month. [R.] Wordsworth. 

MONTHLY:  A publication which appears regularly once a month. 

MONTICLE:  A little mount; a hillock; a small elevation or prominence. [Written also monticule.] 

MONTICULATE:  Furnished with monticles or little elevations. 

MONTICULE:  See Monticle. 

MONTICULOUS:  Monticulate. 

MONTIFORM:  Resembling a mountain in form. 

MONTIGENOUS:  Produced on a mountain. 

MONTOIR:  A stone used in mounting a horse; a horse block. 

MONTON:  A heap of ore; a mass undergoing the process of amalgamation. 

MONTROSS:  See Matross. [Obs.] 

MONTRUE:  That on which anything is mounted; a setting; hence, a saddle horse. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MONUREID:  Any one of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded as derived from one molecule of urea; as, alloxan is a monureid. [Written also monureide.] 

MOO:  See Mo. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOO:  To make the noise of a cow; to low; -- child's word. 

MOO:  The lowing of a cow. 

MOOD:  Manner of conceiving and expressing action or being, as positive, possible, hypothetical, etc., without regard to other accidents, such as time, person, number, etc.; as, the indicative mood; the infinitive mood; the subjunctive mood. Same as Mode. 

MOOD:  Temper of mind; temporary state of the mind in regard to passion or feeling; humor; as, a melancholy mood; a suppliant mood. Till at the last aslaked was mood. Chaucer. Fortune is merry, And in this mood will give us anything. Shak. The desperate recklessness of her mood. Hawthorne. 

MOODER:  Mother. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOODILY:  In a moody manner. 

MOODINESS:  The quality or state of being moody; specifically, liability to strange or violent moods. 

MOODIR:  The governor of a province in Egypt, etc. [Written also mudir.] 

MOODISH:  Moody. [Obs.] 

MOODISHLY:  Moodily. [Obs.] 

MOODY:  See Mollah. 

MOOLLEY:  Same as Mulley. 

MOON:  A crescentlike outwork. See Half-moon. Moon blindness. (a) (Far.) A kind of ophthalmia liable to recur at intervals of three or four weeks. (b) (Med.) Hemeralopia.  -- Moon dial, a dial used to indicate time by moonlight.  -- Moon face, a round face like a full moon.  -- Moon madness, lunacy. [Poetic] -- Moon month, a lunar month.  -- Moon trefoil (Bot.), a shrubby species of medic (Medicago arborea). See Medic.  -- Moon year, a lunar year, consisting of lunar months, being sometimes twelve and sometimes thirteen. 

MOON:  To expose to the rays of the moon. If they have it to be exceeding white indeed, they seethe it yet once more, after it hath been thus sunned and mooned. Holland. 

MOON:  To act if moonstruck; to wander or gaze about in an abstracted manner. Elsley was mooning down the river by himself. C. Kingsley. 

MOONBEAM:  A ray of light from the moon. 

MOONBLIND:  Dim-sighted; purblind. 

MOONBLINK:  A temporary blindness, or impairment of sight, said to be caused by sleeping in the moonlight; -- sometimes called nyctalopia. 

MOONCALF:  Culminating, or coming to the meredian, at or about the same time with the moon; -- said of a star or stars, esp. of certain stars selected beforehand, and named in an ephemeris (as the Nautical Almanac), as suitable to be observed in connection with the moon at culmination, for determining terrestrial longitude. 

MOONED:  Of or resembling the moon; symbolized by the moon. "Sharpening in mooned horns." "Mooned Ashtaroth." Milton. 

MOONER:  One who abstractedly wanders or gazes about, as if moonstruck. [R.] Dickens. 

MOONERY:  Conduct of one who moons. [R.] 

MOONET:  A little moon. [R.] Bp. Hall.  MOON-EYE Moon"-eye`, n.  1. A eye affected by the moon; also, a disease in the eye of a horse.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) Any species of American fresh-water fishes of the genus Hyodon, esp. H. tergisus of the Great Lakes and adjacent waters. (b) The cisco.  MOON-EYED Moon"-eyed`, a.  Having eyes affected by the moon; moonblind; dim-eyed; purblind.  MOON-FACED Moon"-faced`, a.  Having a round, full face. 

MOONG:  Same as Mung. 

MOONGLADE:  The bright reflection of the moon's light on an expanse of water. [Poetic] 

MOONIE:  The European goldcrest. 

MOONISH:  Like the moon; variable. Being but a moonish youth. Shak. 

MOONLESS:  Being without a moon or moonlight. 

MOONLIGHT:  The light of the moon.  -- a.  Occurring during or by moonlight; characterized by moonlight. 

MOONLING:  A simpleton; a lunatic. [Obs.] 

MOONLIT:  Illumined by the moon. "The moonlit sea." Moore. "Moonlit dells." Lowell. 

MOONRAKER:  Same as Moonsail. 

MOONRISE:  The rising of the moon above the horizon; also, the time of its rising. 

MOONSAIL:  A sail sometimes carried in light winds, above a skysail. R. H. Dana, Jr. 

MOONSEED:  A climbing plant of the genus Menispermum; -- so called from the crescentlike form of the seeds. 

MOONSET:  The descent of the moon below the horizon; also, the time when the moon sets. 

MOONSHEE:  A Mohammedan professor or teacher of language. [India] 

MOONSHINE:  Moonlight. [R.] Clarendon. 

MOONSHINER:  A person engaged in illicit distilling; -- so called because the work is largely done at night. [Cant, U.S.] 

MOONSHINING:  Illicit distilling. [Slang or Colloq., U. S.] 

MOONSHINY:  Moonlight. [Colloq.] I went to see them in a moonshiny night. Addison. 

MOONSTONE:  A nearly pellucid variety of feldspar, showing pearly or opaline reflections from within. It is used as a gem. The best specimens come from Ceylon. 

MOONSTRICKEN:  See Moonstruck. 

MOOR:  Any individual of the swarthy races of Africa or Asia which have adopted the Mohammedan religion. "In Spanish history the terms Moors, Saracens, and Arabs are synonymous." Internat. Cyc. 

MOOR:  To fix or secure, as a vessel, in a particular place by casting anchor, or by fastening with cables or chains; as, the vessel was moored in the stream; they moored the boat to the wharf.  2. Fig.: To secure, or fix firmly. Brougham. 

MOOR:  To cast anchor; to become fast. On oozy ground his galleys moor. Dryden. 

MOORAGE:  A place for mooring. 

MOORBALL:  A fresh-water alga (Cladophora Ægagropila) which forms a globular mass. 

MOORBAND:  See Moorpan. 

MOORESS:  A female Moor; a Moorish woman. 

MOORING:  The place or condition of a ship thus confined. And the tossed bark in moorings swings. Moore. Mooring block (Naut.), a heavy block of cast iron sometimes used as an anchor for mooring vessels. 

MOORISH:  Having the characteristics of a moor or heath. "Moorish fens." Thomson. 

MOORISH:  Of or pertaining to Morocco or the Moors; in the style of the Moors. Moorish architecture, the style developed by the Moors in the later Middle Ages, esp. in Spain, in which the arch had the form of a horseshoe, and the ornamentation admitted no representation of animal life. It has many points of resemblance to the Arabian and Persian styles, but should be distinguished from them. See Illust. under Moresque. 

MOORLAND:  Land consisting of a moor or moors. 

MOORPAN:  A clayey layer or pan underlying some moors, etc. 

MOORSTONE:  A species of English granite, used as a building stone. 

MOORUK:  A species of cassowary (Casuarius Bennetti) found in New Britain, and noted for its agility in running and leaping. It is smaller and has stouter legs than the common cassowary. Its crest is biloted; the neck and breast are black; the back, rufous mixed with black; and the naked skin of the neck, blue. 

MOORY:  Of or pertaining to moors; marshy; fenny; boggy; moorish. Mortimer. As when thick mists arise from moory vales. Fairfax. 

MOORY:  A kind of blue cloth made in India. Balfour (Cyc of India). 

MOOSE:  A large cervine mammal (Alces machlis, or A. Americanus), native of the Northern United States and Canada. The adult male is about as large as a horse, and has very large, palmate antlers. It closely resembles the European elk, and by many zoölogists is considered the same species. See Elk. Moose bird (Zoöl.), the Canada jayor whisky jack. See Whisky jack.  -- Moose deer. Same as Moose.  -- Moose yard (Zoöl.), a locality where moose, in winter, herd together in a forest to feed and for mutual protection. 

MOOT:  See 1st Mot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOOT:  A ring for gauging wooden pins. 

MOOT:  To argue or plead in a supposed case. There is a difference between mooting and pleading; between fencing and fighting. B. Jonson. 

MOOT:  A discussion or debate; especially, a discussion of fictitious causes by way of practice. The pleading used in courts and chancery called moots. Sir T. Elyot. Moot case, a case or question to be mooted; a disputable case; an unsettled question. Dryden.  -- Moot court, a mock court, such as is held by students of law for practicing the conduct of law cases.  -- Moot point, a point or question to be debated; a doubtful question. 

MOOT:  Subject, or open, to argument or discussion; undecided; debatable; mooted. 

MOOTABLE:  Capable of being mooted. 

MOOTER:  A disputer of a mooted case.  MOOT-HALL; MOOT-HOUSE Moot"-hall`, Moot"-house`, n. Etym: [AS. moth.]  A hall for public meetings; a hall of judgment. [Obs.] "The moot-hall of Herod." Wyclif.  MOOT-HILL Moot"-hill`, n. (O. Eng. Law)  A hill of meeting or council; an elevated place in the open air where public assemblies or courts were held by the Saxons; -- called, in Scotland, mute-hill. J. R. Green. 

MOOTMAN:  One who argued moot cases in the inns of court. 

MOP:  A made-up face; a grimace. "What mops and mowes it makes!" Beau. & Fl. 

MOP:  To make a wry mouth. [Obs.] Shak. 

MOP:  To rub or wipe with a mop, or as with a mop; as, to mop a floor; to mop one's face with a handkerchief. 

MOPBOARD:  A narrow board nailed against the wall of a room next to the floor; skirting board; baseboard. See Baseboard. 

MOPE:  To be dull and spiritless. "Moping melancholy." Milton. A sickly part of one true sense Could not so mope. Shak. 

MOPE:  To make spiritless and stupid. [Obs.] 

MOPE:  A dull, spiritless person. Burton.  MOPE-EYED Mope"-eyed`, a.  Shortsighted; purblind. 

MOPEFUL:  Mopish. [R.] 

MOPISH:  Dull; spiritless; dejected.  -- Mop"ish*ly, adv.  -- Mop"ish*ness, n. 

MOPLAH:  One of a class of Mohammedans in Malabar. 

MOPPET:  A long-haired pet dog.  MOPSEY; MOPSY Mop"sey, Mop"sy, n.  1. A moppet.  2. A slatternly, untidy woman. Halliwell. 

MOPSICAL:  Shortsighted; mope-eyed. 

MOPSTICK:  The long handle of a mop. 

MOPUS:  A mope; a drone. [Obs.] Swift. 

MOQUETTE:  A kind of carpet having a short velvety pile. 

MORA:  A game of guessing the number of fingers extended in a quick movement of the hand, -- much played by Italians of the lower classes. 

MORA:  A leguminous tree of Guiana and Trinidad (Dimorphandra excelsa); also, its timber, used in shipbuilding and making furniture. 

MORA:  Delay; esp., culpable delay; postponement. 

MORAINE:  An accumulation of earth and stones carried forward and deposited by a glacier. Lyell.  Note: If the moranie is at the extremity of the glacier it is a terminal moranie; if at the side, a lateral moranie; if parallel to the side on the central portion of the glacier, a medial moranie. See Illust. of Glacier. In the last case it is formed by the union of the lateral moranies of the branches of the glacier. A ground moranie is one beneath the mass of ice. 

MORAINIC:  Of or pertaining to a moranie. 

MORAL:  To moralize. [Obs.] Shak. 

MORALE:  The moral condition, or the condition in other respects, so far as it is affected by, or dependent upon, moral considerations, such as zeal, spirit, hope, and confidence; mental state, as of a body of men, an army, and the like. 

MORALER:  A moralizer. [Obs.] Shak. 

MORALISM:  A maxim or saying embodying a moral truth. Farrar. 

MORALIZE:  To make moral reflections; to regard acts and events as involving a moral. 

MORALIZER:  One who moralizes. 

MORASS:  A tract of soft, wet ground; a marsh; a fen. Morass ore. (Min.) See Bog ore, under Bog. 

MORASSY:  Marshy; fenny. [R.] Pennant. 

MORATE:  A salt of moric acid. 

MORATION:  A delaying tarrying; delay. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

MORATORIUM:  A period during which an obligor has a legal right to delay meeting an obligation, esp. such a period granted, as to a bank, by a moratory law. 

MORATORY:  Of or pertaining to delay; esp., designating a law passed, as in a time of financial panic, to postpone or delay for a period the time at which notes, bills of exchange, and other obligations, shall mature or become due. 

MORAVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Moravia, or to the United Brethren. See Moravian, n. 

MORAVIAN:  One of a religious sect called the United Brethern (an offshoot of the Hussites in Bohemia), which formed a separate church of Moravia, a northern district of Austria, about the middle of the 15th century. After being nearly extirpated by persecution, the society, under the name of The Renewed Church of the United Brethren, was reëstablished in 1722-35 on the estates of Count Zinzendorf in Saxony. Called also Herrnhuter. 

MORAVIANISM:  The religious system of the Moravians. 

MORAY:  A muræna. 

MORBIDEZZA:  Delicacy or softness in the representation of flesh.  2. (Mus.)  A term used as a direction in execution, signifying, with extreme delicacy. Ludden. 

MORBIDLY:  In a morbid manner. 

MORBIDNESS:  The quality or state of being morbid; morbidity.  MORBIFIC; MORBIFICAL Mor*bif"ic, Mor*bif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. morbus disease + -ficare (in comp.) to make: cf. F. morbifique. See -fy.]  Causing disease; generating a sickly state; as, a morbific matter. 

MORBILLOUS:  Pertaining to the measles; partaking of the nature of measels, or resembling the eruptions of that disease; measly. 

MORBOSE:  Proceeding from disease; morbid; unhealthy. Morbose tumors and excrescences of plants. Ray. 

MORBOSITY:  A diseased state; unhealthiness. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

MORCEAU:  A bit; a morsel. 

MORDACIOUS:  Biting; given to biting; hence, figuratively, sarcastic; severe; scathing.  -- Mor*da"cious*ly, adv. 

MORDACITY:  The quality of being mordacious; biting severity, or sarcastic quality. Bacon. 

MORDANT:  Serving to fix colors. 

MORDANT:  Any substance, as alum or copperas, which, having a twofold attraction for organic fibers and coloring matter, serves as a bond of union, and thus gives fixity to, or bites in, the dyes.  3. (Gilding)  Any sticky matter by which the gold leaf is made to adhere. 

MORDANT:  To subject to the action of, or imbue with, a mordant; as, to mordant goods for dyeing. 

MORDANTLY:  In the manner of a mordant. 

MORDENTE:  An embellishment resembling a trill. 

MORDICANCY:  A biting quality; corrosiveness. [R.] Evelyn. 

MORDICANT:  Biting; acrid; as, the mordicant quality of a body. [R.] Boyle. 

MORDICATION:  The act of biting or corroding; corrosion. [R.] Bacon. 

MORDICATIVE:  Biting; corrosive. [R.] Holland. 

MORE:  A hill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

MORE:  A root. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MORE:  To make more; to increase. [Obs.] Gower. 

MOREEN:  A thick woolen fabric, watered or with embossed figures; -- used in upholstery, for curtains, etc. 

MOREL:  An edible fungus (Morchella esculenta), the upper part of which is covered with a reticulated and pitted hymenium. It is used as food, and for flavoring sauces. [Written also moril.] 

MORELAND:  Moorland. 

MORELLE:  Nightshade. See 2d Morel. 

MORELLO:  A kind of nearly black cherry with dark red flesh and juice, -- used chiefly for preserving. 

MORENDO:  Dying; a gradual decrescendo at the end of a strain or cadence. 

MORENESS:  Greatness. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

MOREOVER:  Beyond what has been said; further; besides; in addition; furthermore; also; likewise. Moreover, he hath left you all his walks. Shak.  Syn.  -- Besides, Moreover. Of the two words, moreover is the stronger and is properly used in solemn discourse, or when what is added is important to be considered. See Besides. 

MOREPORK:  The Australian crested goatsucker (Ægotheles Novæ-Hollandiæ). Also applied to other allied birds, as Podargus Cuveiri. 

MORES:  Customs; habits; esp., customs conformity to which is more or less obligatory; customary law. 

MORESK:  Moresque. [Obs.] 

MORESQUE:  Of or pertaining to, or in the manner or style of, the Moors; Moorish.  -- n.  The Moresque style of architecture or decoration. See Moorish architecture, under Moorish. [Written also mauresque.] 

MORGAN:  One of a celebrated breed of American trotting horses; -- so called from the name of the stud from which the breed originated in Vermont. 

MORGANATIC:  Pertaining to, in the manner of, or designating, a kind of marriage, called also left-handed marriage, between a man of superior rank and a woman of inferior, in which it is stipulated that neither the latter nor her children shall enjoy the rank or inherit the possessions of her husband. Brande & C.  -- Mor`ga*nat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

MORGAY:  The European small-spotted dogfish, or houndfish. See the Note under Houndfish. 

MORGLAY:  A sword. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

MORGUE:  A place where the bodies of persons found dead are exposed, that they may be identified, or claimed by their friends; a deadhouse. 

MORIA:  Idiocy; imbecility; fatuity; foolishness. 

MORIAN:  A Moor. [Obs.] In vain the Turks and Morians armed be. Fairfax. 

MORIBUND:  In a dying state; dying; at the point of death. The patient was comatose and moribund. Copland. 

MORIBUND:  A dying person. [R.] 

MORIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, fustic (see Morin); as, moric acid. 

MORICE:  See Morisco. 

MORIGERATE:  Obedient. [Obs.] 

MORIGERATION:  Obsequiousness; obedience. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

MORIGEROUS:  Obedient; obsequious. [Obs.] Brathwait. 

MORIL:  An edible fungus. Same as 1st Morel. 

MORIN:  A yellow crystalline substance of acid properties extracted from fustic (Maclura tinctoria, formerly called Morus tinctoria); -- called also moric acid. 

MORINDA:  A genus of rubiaceous trees and shrubs, mostly East Indian, many species of which yield valuable red and yellow dyes. The wood is hard and beautiful, and used for gunstocks. 

MORINDIN:  A yellow dyestuff extracted from the root bark of an East Indian plant (Morinda citrifolia). 

MORINEL:  The dotterel. 

MORINGA:  A genus of trees of Southern India and Northern Africa. One species (Moringa pterygosperma) is the horse-radish tree, and its seeds, as well as those of M. aptera, are known in commerce as ben or ben nuts, and yield the oil called oil of ben. 

MORINGIC:  Designating an organic acid obtained from oil of ben. See Moringa. 

MORINTANNIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a variety of tannic acid extracted from fustic (Maclura, formerly Morus, tinctoria) as a yellow crystalline substance; -- called also maclurin. 

MORION:  A kind of open helmet, without visor or beaver, and somewhat resembling a hat. A battered morion on his brow. Sir W. Scott. 

MORION:  A dark variety of smoky quartz. 

MORIOPLASTY:  The restoration of lost parts of the body. 

MORISCO:  Moresque. 

MORISCO:  A thing of Moorish origin; as: (a) The Moorish language. (b) A Moorish dance, now called morris dance. Marston. (c) One who dances the Moorish dance. Shak. (d) Moresque decoration or architecture. 

MORISK:  Same as Morisco. 

MORKIN:  A beast that has died of disease or by mischance. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

MORLAND:  Moorland. [Obs.] 

MORLING:  Mortling. [Eng.] Ainsworth. 

MORMAL:  A bad sore; a gangrene; a cancer. [Obs.] [Written also morrimal and mortmal.] Chaucer. 

MORMO:  A bugbear; false terror. [Obs.] Jonhson. 

MORMON:  One of a sect in the United States, followers of Joseph Smith, who professed to have found an addition to the Bible, engraved on golden plates, called the Book of Mormon, first published in 1830. The Mormons believe in polygamy, and their hierarchy of apostles, etc., has control of civil and religious matters.  Note: The Mormons call their religious organization The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Its head claims to receive revelations of God's will, and to have certain supernatural powers. 

MORMON:  Of or pertaining to the Mormons; as, the Mormon religion; Mormon practices. 

MORMONDOM:  The country inhabited by the Mormons; the Mormon people. 

MORMONISM:  The doctrine, system, and practices of the Mormons. 

MORMONITE:  A Mormon.  -- a.  Mormon. "Mormonite religion." F. W. Newman. 

MORN:  The first part of the day; the morning; -- used chiefly in poetry. From morn To noun he fell, from noon to dewy eve. Milton. 

MORNE:  Of or pertaining to the morn; morning. [Obs.] "White as morne milk." Chaucer. 

MORNE:  A ring fitted upon the head of a lance to prevent wounding an adversary in titling. 

MORNE:  Without teeth, tongue, or claws; -- said of a lion represented heraldically. 

MORNING:  Pertaining to the first part or early part of the day; being in the early part of the day; as, morning dew; morning light; morning service. She looks as clear As morning roses newly washed with dew. Shak. Morning gown, a gown worn in the morning before one is dressed for the day.  -- Morning gun, a gun fired at the first stroke of reveille at military posts.  -- Morning sickness (Med.), nausea and vomiting, usually occurring in the morning; -- a common sign of pregnancy.  -- Morning star. (a) Any one of the planets (Venus, Jupiter, Mars, or Saturn) when it precedes the sun in rising, esp. Venus. Cf. Evening star, Evening. (b) Satan. See Lucifer. Since he miscalled the morning star, Nor man nor fiend hath fallen so far. Byron. (c) A weapon consisting of a heavy ball set with spikes, either attached to a staff or suspended from one by a chain.  -- Morning watch (Naut.), the watch between four A. M. and eight A. M..  MORNING-GLORY Morn"ing-glo`ry, n. (Bot.)  A climbing plant (Ipomoea purpurea) having handsome, funnel- shaped flowers, usually red, pink, purple, white, or variegated, sometimes pale blue. See Dextrorsal. 

MORNINGTIDE:  Morning time. [Poetic] 

MORNWARD:  Towards the morn. [Poetic] And mornward now the starry hands move on. Lowell. 

MORO:  A small abscess or tumor having a resemblance to a mulberry. Dunglison. 

MOROCCAN:  Of or pertaining to Morocco, or its inhabitants. 

MOROCCO:  A fine kind of leather, prepared commonly from goatskin (though an inferior kind is made of sheepskin), and tanned with sumac and dyed of various colors; -- said to have been first made by the Moors. 

MOROLOGY:  Foolish talk; nonsense; folly. [Obs.] 

MORON:  A person whose intellectual development proceeds normally up to about the eighth year of age and is then arrested so that there is little or no further development. 

MORON:  An inferior olive size having a woody pulp and a large clingstone pit, growing in the mountainous and high-valley districts around the city of Moron, in Spain. 

MORONE:  Maroon; the color of an unripe black mulberry. 

MOROS:  The Mohammedan tribes of the southern Philippine Islands, said to have formerly migrated from Borneo. Some of them are warlike and addicted to piracy. 

MOROSAURUS:  An extinct genus of large herbivorous dinosaurs, found in Jurassic strata in America. 

MOROSELY:  Sourly; with sullen austerity. 

MOROSENESS:  Sourness of temper; sulenness. Learn good humor, never to oppose without just reason; abate some degrees of pride and moroseness. I. Watts.  Note: Moroseness is not precisely peevishness or fretfulness, though often accompained with it. It denotes more of silence and severity, or ill-humor, than the irritability or irritation which characterizes peevishness. 

MOROSIS:  Idiocy; fatuity; stupidity. 

MOROSITY:  Moroseness. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

MOROSOPH:  A philosophical or learned fool. [Obs.] 

MOROSOUS:  Morose. [Obs.] Sheldon. 

MOROXITE:  A variety of apatite of a greenish blue color. 

MOROXYLATE:  A morate. 

MOROXYLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the mulberry; moric. 

MORPHEAN:  Of or relating to Morpheus, to dreams, or to sleep. Keats. 

MORPHEUS:  The god of dreams. 

MORPHEW:  A scurfy eruption. [Obs.] Drayton. 

MORPHEW:  To cover with a morphew. [Obs.] 

MORPHIA:  Morphine. 

MORPHINE:  A bitter white crystalline alkaloid found in opium, possessing strong narcotic properties, and much used as an anodyne; -- called also morphia, and morphina. 

MORPHINISM:  A morbid condition produced by the excessive or prolonged use of morphine. 

MORPHO:  Any one of numerous species of large, handsome, tropical American butterflies, of the genus Morpho. They are noted for the very brilliant metallic luster and bright colors (often blue) of the upper surface of the wings. The lower surface is usually brown or gray, with eyelike spots. 

MORPHOGENY:  History of the evolution of forms; that part of ontogeny that deals with the germ history of forms; -- distinguished from physiogeny. Haeckel.  MORPHOLOGIC; MORPHOLOGICAL Mor`pho*log"ic, Mor`pho*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. morphologique.] (Biol.)  Of, pertaining to, or according to, the principles of morphology.  -- Mor`pho*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

MORPHOLOGIST:  One who is versed in the science of morphology. 

MORPHOLOGY:  That branch of biology which deals with the structure of animals and plants, treating of the forms of organs and describing their varieties, homologies, and metamorphoses. See Tectology, and Promorphology. 

MORPHON:  A morphological individual, characterized by definiteness of form bion, a physiological individual. See Tectology. Haeckel.  Note: Of morphons there are six orders or categories: 1. Plastids or elementary organisms. 2. Organs, homoplastic or heteroplastic. 3. Antimeres (opposite or symmetrical or homotypic parts). 4. Metameres (successive or homodynamous parts). 5. Personæ (shoots or buds of plants, individuals in the narrowest sense among the higher animals). 6. Corms (stocks or colonies). For orders 2, 3, and 4 the term idorgan has been recently substituted. See Idorgan. 

MORPHONOMY:  The laws of organic formation. 

MORPHOPHYLY:  The tribal history of forms; that part of phylogeny which treats of the tribal history of forms, in distinction from the tribal history of functions. Haeckel. 

MORPHOSIS:  The order or mode of development of an organ or part. 

MORPHOTIC:  Connected with, or becoming an integral part of, a living unit or of the morphological framework; as, morphotic, or tissue, proteids. Foster.  -MORPHOUS -mor"phous. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form denoting form, shape; as, isomorphous. 

MORPION:  A louse. Hudibras. 

MORRICE:  Same as 1st Morris. 

MORRICE:  Dancing the morrice; dancing. In shoals and bands, a morrice train. Wordsworth. 

MORRICER:  A morris dancer. [Obs.] 

MORRIMAL:  See Mormal. 

MORRIS:  A marine fish having a very slender, flat, transparent body. It is now generally believed to be the young of the conger eel or some allied fish.  MORRIS-CHAIR Mor"ris-chair`, n. [Prob. fr. the proper name Morris.]  A kind of easy-chair with a back which may be lowered or raised.  MORRIS-PIKE Mor"ris-pike`, n.  A Moorish pike. [Obs.] 

MORRO:  A round hill or point of land; hence, Morro castle, a castle on a hill. 

MORROT:  See Marrot. 

MORSE:  The walrus. See Walrus. 

MORSE:  A clasp for fastening garments in front. Fairholt.  MORSE ALPHABET Morse" al"pha*bet.  A telegraphic alphabet in very general use, inventing by Samuel F.B.Morse, the inventor of Morse's telegraph. The letters are represented by dots and dashes impressed or printed on paper, as, .- (A), -... (B), -.. (D), . (E), .. (O), ... (R), -- (T), etc., or by sounds, flashes of light, etc., with greater or less intervals between them.  MORSE CODE Morse" code". (Teleg.)  The telegraphic code, consisting of dots, dashes, and spaces, invented by Samuel B. Morse. The Alphabetic code which is in use in North America is given below. In length, or duration, one dash is theoretically equal to three dots; the space between the elements of a letter is equal to one dot; the interval in spaced letters, as O . ., is equal to three dots. There are no spaces in any letter composed wholly or in part of dashes.  Alphabet  A .-          H ....       O . .          V ...-  B - . . .     I ..         P .....        W .--  C .. .        J -.-.       Q ..-.         X .-..  D -..         K -.-        R . ..         Y .. ..  E .           L ---    S ...          Z ... .  F .-.         M --         T --           & . ...  G --.         N -.         U ..-  Numerals  1 .--.        4 . . . .-          7 --..  2 ..-..       5 ---               8 - . . . .  3 . . . -.    6 . . . . . .       9 -..-  0 ----     Period ..--..   Comma .-.-  The International (Morse) code used elsewhere is the same as the above with the following exceptions.  C -.-.     L .-..     Q --.-     Y -.--  F ..-.     O ---      R .-.      Z --..  J .---     P .--.     X -..- The Morse code is used chiefly with the electric telegraph, but is also employed in signalling with flags, lights, etc. 

MORSEL:  A horn or flask for holding powder, as for priming. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

MORSITATION:  The act of biting or gnawing. [Obs.] 

MORSURE:  The act of biting. Swift. 

MORT:  A great quantity or number. [Prov. Eng.] There was a mort of merrymaking. Dickens. 

MORT:  A woman; a female. [Cant] Male gypsies all, not a mort among them. B. Jonson. 

MORT:  A salmon in its third year. [Prov. Eng.] 

MORTAL:  A being subject to death; a human being; man. "Warn poor mortals left behind." Tickell. 

MORTALIZE:  To make mortal. [R.] 

MORTALNESS:  Quality of being mortal; mortality. 

MORTAR:  A short piece of ordnance, used for throwing bombs, carcasses, shells, etc., at high angles of elevation, as 45º, and even higher; - - so named from its resemblance in shape to the utensil above described. Mortar bed (Mil.), a framework of wood and iron, suitably hollowed out to receive the breech and trunnions of a mortar.  -- Mortar boat or vessel (Naut.), a boat strongly built and adapted to carrying a mortar or mortars for bombarding; a bomb ketch.  -- Mortar piece, a mortar. [Obs.] Shak. 

MORTAR:  A building material made by mixing lime, cement, or plaster of Paris, with sand, water, and sometimes other materials; -- used in masonry for joining stones, bricks, etc., also for plastering, and in other ways. Mortar bed, a shallow box or receptacle in which mortar is mixed.  -- Mortar board. (a) A small square board with a handle beneath, for holding mortar; a hawk. (b) A cap with a broad, projecting, square top; -- worn by students in some colleges. [Slang] 

MORTAR:  To plaster or make fast with mortar. 

MORTAR:  A chamber lamp or light. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MORTGAGE:  A conveyance of property, upon condition, as security for the payment of a debt or the preformance of a duty, and to become void upon payment or performance according to the stipulated terms; also, the written instrument by which the conveyance is made.  Note: It was called a mortgage (or dead pledge) because, whatever profit it might yield, it did not thereby redeem itself, but became lost or dead to the mortgager upon breach of the condition. But in equity a right of redemption is an inseparable incident of a mortgage until the mortgager is debarred by his own laches, or by judicial decree. Cowell. Kent.  2. State of being pledged; as, lands given in mortgage. Chattel mortgage. See under Chattel.  -- To foreclose a mortgage. See under Foreclose.  -- Mortgage deed (Law), a deed given by way of mortgage. 

MORTGAGE:  To grant or convey, as property, for the security of a debt, or other engagement, upon a condition that if the debt or engagement shall be discharged according to the contract, the conveyance shall be void, otherwise to become absolute, subject, however, to the right of redemption.  2. Hence: To pledge, either literally or figuratively; to make subject to a claim or obligation. Mortgaging their lives to covetise. Spenser. I myself an mortgaged to thy will. Shak. 

MORTGAGEE:  The person to whom property is mortgaged, or to whom a mortgage is made or given.  MORTGAGEOR; MORTGAGOR Mort"gage*or, Mort"ga*gor, n. (Law)  One who gives a mortgage.  Note: The letter e is required analogically after the second g in order to soften it; but the spelling mortgagor is in fact the prevailing form. When the word is contradistinguished from mortgagee it is accented on the last syllable ( 

MORTGAGER:  gives a mortgage. 

MORTIFEROUS:  Bringing or producing death; deadly; destructive; as, a mortiferous herb. Gov. of Tongue. 

MORTIFICATION:  A gift to some charitable or religious institution; -- nearly synonymous with mortmain.  Syn.  -- Chagrin; vexation; shame. See Chagrin. 

MORTIFIED:  of Mortify. 

MORTIFIEDNESS:  The state of being mortified; humiliation; subjection of the passions. [R.] 

MORTIFIER:  One who, or that which, mortifies. 

MORTIFYINGLY:  In a mortifying manner. 

MORTISE:  A cavity cut into a piece of timber, or other material, to receive something (as the end of another piece) made to fit it, and called a tenon. Mortise and tenon (Carp.), made with a mortise and tenon; joined or united by means of a mortise and tenon; -- used adjectively.  -- Mortise joint, a joint made by a mortise and tenon.  -- Mortise lock. See under Lock.  -- Mortise wheel, a cast-iron wheel, with wooden clogs inserted in mortises on its face or edge; -- also called mortise gear, and core gear. 

MORTMAIN:  Possession of lands or tenements in, or conveyance to, dead hands, or hands that cannot alienate.  Note: The term was originally applied to conveyance of land made to ecclesiastical bodies; afterward to conveyance made to any corporate body. Burrill. 

MORTMAL:  See Mormal. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

MORTPAY:  Dead pay; the crime of taking pay for the service of dead soldiers, or for services not actually rendered by soldiers. [Obs.] Bacon.  MORTRESS; MORTREW Mor"tress, Mor"trew, n. Etym: [See Mortar.]  A dish of meats and other ingredients, cooked together; an ollapodrida. Chaucer. Bacon. 

MORTUARY:  Of or pertaining to the dead; as, mortuary monuments. Mortuary urn, an urn for holding the ashes of the dead. 

MORULA:  The sphere or globular mass of cells (blastomeres), formed by the clevage of the ovum or egg in the first stages of its development; -- called also mulberry mass, segmentation sphere, and blastosphere. See Segmentation. 

MORULATION:  The process of cleavage, or segmentation, of the ovum, by which a morula is formed. 

MORUS:  A genus of trees, some species of which produce edible fruit; the mulberry. See Mulberry.  Note: Morus alba is the white mulberry, a native of India or China, the leaves of which are extensively used for feeding silkworms, for which it furnishes the chief food.  -- Morus multicaulis, the many-stemmed or Chinese mulberry, is only a form of white mulberry, preferred on account of its more abundant leaves.  -- Morus nigra, the black mulberry, produces a dark-colored fruit, of an agreeable flavor. 

MORWE:  See Morrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MORWENING:  Morning. [Obs.] 

MOS:  sing. of Mores. 

MOSAIC:  A surface decoration made by inlaying in patterns small pieces of variously colored glass, stone, or other material; -- called also mosaic work.  2. A picture or design made in mosaic; an article decorated in mosaic. 

MOSAIC:  Of or pertaining to the style of work called mosaic; formed by uniting pieces of different colors; variegated; tessellated; also, composed of various materials or ingredients. A very beautiful mosaic pavement. Addison. Florentine mosaic. See under Florentine.  -- Mosaic gold. (a) See Ormolu.  -- (b) Stannic sulphide, SnS2, obtained as a yellow scaly crystalline powder, and used as a pigment in bronzing and gilding wood and metal work. It was called by the alchemists aurum musivum, or aurum mosaicum. Called also bronze powder.  -- Mosaic work. See Mosaic, n. 

MOSAIC:  Of or pertaining to Moses, the leader of the Israelites, or established through his agency; as, the Mosaic law, rites, or institutions. 

MOSAICAL:  Mosaic (in either sense). "A mosaical floor." Sir P. Sidney. 

MOSAICALLY:  In the manner of a mosaic. 

MOSAISM:  Attachment to the system or doctrines of Moses; that which is peculiar to the Mosaic system or doctrines.  MOSASAUR; MOSASAURIAN Mos"a*saur, Mos`a*sau"ri*an, n. (Paleon.)  One of an extinct order of reptiles, including Mosasaurus and allied genera. See Mosasauria. 

MOSASAURIA:  An order of large, extinct, marine reptiles, found in the Cretaceous rocks, especially in America. They were serpentlike in form and in having loosely articulated and dilatable jaws, with large recurved tteth, but they had paddlelike feet. Some of them were over fifty feet long. They are, essentially, fossil sea serpents with paddles. Called also Pythonomarpha, and Mosasauria. 

MOSASAURUS:  A genus of extinct marine reptiles allied to the lizards, but having the body much elongated, and the limbs in the form of paddles. The first known species, nearly fifty feet in length, was discovered in Cretaceous beds near Maestricht, in the Netherlands. [Written also Mososaurus.] 

MOSCHATEL:  A plant of the genus Adoxa (A. moschatellina), the flowers of which are pale green, and have a faint musky smell. It is found in woods in all parts of Europe, and is called also hollow root and musk crowfoot. Loudon. 

MOSCHINE:  Of or pertaining to Moschus, a genus including the musk deer. 

MOSEL:  See Muzzle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOSELLE:  A light wine, usually white, produced in the vicinity of the river Moselle. 

MOSES:  A large flatboat, used in the West Indies for taking freight from shore to ship. 

MOSEY:  To go, or move (in a certain manner); -- usually with out, off, along, etc. [Colloq.]  E. N. Wescott. 

MOSK:  See Mosque. 

MOSLEM:  A Mussulman; an orthodox Mohammedan. [Written also muslim.] "Heaps of slaughtered Moslem." Macaulay. They piled the ground with Moslem slain. Halleck. 

MOSLEM:  Of or pertaining to the Mohammedans; Mohammedan; as, Moslem lands; the Moslem faith. 

MOSLINGS:  Thin shreds of leather shaved off in dressing skins. Simmonds. 

MOSOSAURUS:  Same as Mosasaurus. 

MOSQUE:  A Mohammedan church or place of religious worship. [Written also mosk.] 

MOSQUITO:  Any one of various species of gnats of the genus Culex and allied genera. The females have a proboscis containing, within the sheathlike labium, six fine, sharp, needlelike organs with which they puncture the skin of man and animals to suck the blood. These bites, when numerous, cause, in many persons, considerable irritation and swelling, with some pain. The larvæ and pupæ, called wigglers, are aquatic. [Written also musquito.] Mosquito bar, Mosquito net, a net or curtain for excluding mosquitoes, -- used for beds and windows.  -- Mosquito fleet, a fleet of small vessels.  -- Mosquito hawk (Zoöl.), a dragon fly; -- so called because it captures and feeds upon mosquitoes.  -- Mosquito netting, a loosely-woven gauzelike fabric for making mosquito bars. 

MOSS:  A cryptogamous plant of a cellular structure, with distinct stem and simple leaves. The fruit is a small capsule usually opening by an apical lid, and so discharging the spores. There are many species, collectively termed Musci, growing on the earth, on rocks, and trunks of trees, etc., and a few in running water.  Note: The term moss is also popularly applied to many other small cryptogamic plants, particularly lichens, species of which are called tree moss, rock moss, coral moss, etc. Fir moss and club moss are of the genus Lycopodium. See Club moss, under Club, and Lycopodium.  2. A bog; a morass; a place containing peat; as, the mosses of the Scottish border.  Note: Moss is used with participles in the composition of words which need no special explanation; as, moss-capped, moss-clad, moss- covered, moss-grown, etc. Black moss. See under Black, and Tillandsia.  -- Bog moss. See Sphagnum.  -- Feather moss, any moss branched in a feathery manner, esp. several species of the genus Hypnum.  -- Florida moss, Long moss, or Spanish moss. See Tillandsia.  -- Iceland moss, a lichen. See Iceland Moss.  -- Irish moss, a seaweed. See Carrageen.  -- Moss agate (Min.), a variety of agate, containing brown, black, or green mosslike or dendritic markings, due in part to oxide of manganese. Called also Mocha stone.  -- Moss animal (Zoöl.), a bryozoan.  -- Moss berry (Bot.), the small cranberry (Vaccinium Oxycoccus).  -- Moss campion (Bot.), a kind of mosslike catchfly (Silene acaulis), with mostly purplish flowers, found on the highest mountains of Europe and America, and within the Arctic circle.  -- Moss land, land produced accumulation of aquatic plants, forming peat bogs of more or less consistency, as the water is grained off or retained in its pores.  -- Moss pink (Bot.), a plant of the genus Phlox (P. subulata), growing in patches on dry rocky hills in the Middle United States, and often cultivated for its handsome flowers. Gray.  -- Moss rose (Bot.), a variety of rose having a mosslike growth on the stalk and calyx. It is said to be derived from the Provence rose.  -- Moss rush (Bot.), a rush of the genus Juncus (J. squarrosus).  -- Scale moss. See Hepatica. 

MOSS:  To cover or overgrow with moss. An oak whose boughs were mossed with age. Shak. 

MOSSBACK:  A veteran partisan; one who is so conservative in opinion that he may be likened to a stone or old tree covered with moss. [Political Slang, U.S.]  MOSSBANKER; MOSSBUNKER Moss"bank`er, Moss"bunk`er, n. (Zoöl.)  The menhaded.  MOSS-GROWN Moss"-grown`, a.  Overgrown with moss. 

MOSSINESS:  The state of being mossy. 

MOSSTROOPER:  One of a class of marauders or bandits that formerly infested the border country between England and Scotland; -- so called in allusion to the mossy or boggy character of much of the border country. 

MOST:  In the greatest or highest degree. Those nearest to this king, and most his favorites, were courtiers and prelates. Milton.  Note: Placed before an adjective or adverb, most is used to form the superlative degree, being equivalent to the termination -est; as, most vile, most wicked; most illustrious; most rapidly. Formerly, and until after the Elizabethan period of our literature, the use of the double superlative was common. See More, adv. The most unkindest cut of all. Shak. The most straitest sect of our religion. Acts xxvi. 5. 

MOSTAHIBA:  See Mustaiba. 

MOSTE:  of Mote. Chaucer.  MOSTIC; MOSTICK Mos"tic, Mos"tick, n. Etym: [See Maul-stick.]  A painter's maul-stick. 

MOSTLY:  For the greatest part; for the most part; chiefly; in the main. 

MOSTRA:  See Direct, n. 

MOSTWHAT:  For the most part. [Obs.] "All the rest do mostwhat far amiss." Spenser. 

MOT:  May; must; might. He moot as well say one word as another Chaucer. The wordes mote be cousin to the deed. Chaucer. Men moot [i.e., one only] give silver to the poore freres. Chaucer. So mote it be, so be it; amen; -- a phrase in some rituals, as that of the Freemasons. 

MOTACIL:  Any singing bird of the genus Motacilla; a wagtail. 

MOTATION:  The act of moving; motion. [Obs.] 

MOTE:  See 1st Mot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOTE:  The flourish sounded on a horn by a huntsman. See Mot, n., 3, and Mort. Chaucer. 

MOTE:  A small particle, as of floating dust; anything proverbially small; a speck. The little motes in the sun do ever stir, though there be no wind. Bacon. We are motes in the midst of generations. Landor. 

MOTED:  Filled with motes, or fine floating dust; as, the air. "Moted sunbeams." Tennyson. 

MOTET:  A composition adapted to sacred words in the elaborate polyphonic church style; an anthem. 

MOTH:  A mote. [Obs.] Shak. 

MOTH:  Any nocturnal lepidopterous insect, or any not included among the butterflies; as, the luna moth; Io moth; hawk moth.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any lepidopterous insect that feeds upon garments, grain, etc.; as, the clothes moth; grain moth; bee moth. See these terms under Clothes, Grain, etc.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any one of various other insects that destroy woolen and fur goods, etc., esp. the larvæ of several species of beetles of the genera Dermestes and Anthrenus. Carpet moths are often the larvæ of Anthrenus. See Carpet beetle, under Carpet, Dermestes, Anthrenus.  4. Anything which gradually and silently eats, consumes, or wastes any other thing. Moth blight (Zoöl.), any plant louse of the genus Aleurodes, and related genera. They are injurious to various plants.  -- Moth gnat (Zoöl.), a dipterous insect of the genus Bychoda, having fringed wings.  -- Moth hunter (Zoöl.), the goatsucker.  -- Moth miller (Zoöl.), a clothes moth. See Miller, 3, (a).  -- Moth mullein (Bot.), a common herb of the genus Verbascum (V. Blattaria), having large wheel-shaped yellow or whitish flowers.  MOTH-EAT Moth"-eat`, v. t.  To eat or prey upon, as a moth eats a garment. [Rarely used except in the form moth-eaten, p.p. or a.] Ruin and neglect have so moth-eaten her. Sir T. Herbert. 

MOTHEN:  Full of moths. [Obs.] Fulke. 

MOTHER:  Received by birth or from ancestors; native, natural; as, mother language; also acting the part, or having the place of a mother; producing others; originating. It is the mother falsehood from which all idolatry is derived. T. Arnold. Mother cell (Biol.), a cell which, by endogenous divisions, gives rise to other cells (daughter cells); a parent cell.  -- Mother church, the original church; a church from which other churches have sprung; as, the mother church of a diocese.  -- Mother country, the country of one's parents or ancestors; the country from which the people of a colony derive their origin.  -- Mother liquor (Chem.), the impure or complex residual solution which remains after the salts readily or regularly crystallizing have been removed.  -- Mother queen, the mother of a reigning sovereign; a queen mother.  -- Mother tongue. (a) A language from which another language has had its origin. (b) The language of one's native land; native tongue.  -- Mother water. See Mother liquor (above).  -- Mother wit, natural or native wit or intelligence. 

MOTHER:  To adopt as a son or daughter; to perform the duties of a mother to. The queen, to have put lady Elizabeth besides the crown, would have mothered another body's child. Howell. 

MOTHER:  A film or membrane which is developed on the surface of fermented alcoholic liquids, such as vinegar, wine, etc., and acts as a means of conveying the oxygen of the air to the alcohol and other combustible principles of the liquid, thus leading to their oxidation.  Note: The film is composed of a mass of rapidly developing microörganisms of the genus Mycoderma, and in the mother of vinegar the microörganisms (Mycoderma aceti) composing the film are the active agents in the Conversion of the alcohol into vinegar. When thickened by growth, the film may settle to the bottom of the fluid. See Acetous fermentation, under Fermentation. 

MOTHER:  To become like, or full of, mother, or thick matter, as vinegar. 

MOTHERED:  Thick, like mother; viscid. They oint their naked limbs with mothered oil. Dryden. 

MOTHERHOOD:  The state of being a mother; the character or office of a mother. 

MOTHERING:  A rural custom in England, of visiting one's parents on Midlent Sunday, -- supposed to have been originally visiting the mother church to make offerings at the high altar.  MOTHER-IN-LAW Moth"er-in-law`, n.  The mother of one's husband or wife. 

MOTHERLAND:  The country of one's ancestors; -- same as fatherland. 

MOTHERLESS:  Destitute of a mother; having lost a mother; as, motherless children. 

MOTHERLINESS:  The state or quality of being motherly. 

MOTHERLY:  Of or pertaining to a mother; like, or suitable for, a mother; tender; maternal; as, motherly authority, love, or care. Hooker.  Syn.  -- Maternal; paternal.  -- Motherly, Maternal. Motherly, being Anglo-Saxon, is the most familiar word of the two when both have the same meaning. Besides this, maternal is confined to the feelings of a mother toward her own children, whereas motherly has a secondary sense, denoting a care like that of a mother for her offspring. There is, perhaps, a growing tendency thus to separate the two, confining motherly to the latter signification. "They termed her the great mother, for her motherly care in cherishing her brethren whilst young." Sir W. Raleigh. 

MOTHERLY:  In a manner of a mother.  MOTHER-NAKED Moth"er-na`ked, a.  Naked as when born.  MOTHER-OF-PEARL Moth"er-of-pearl`, n. (Zoöl.)  The hard pearly internal layer of several kinds of shells, esp. of pearl oysters, river mussels, and the abalone shells; nacre. See Pearl.  MOTHER-OF-THYME Moth"er-of-thyme`, n. (Bot.)  An aromatic plant (Thymus Serphyllum); -- called also wild thyme.  MOTHER'S DAY Moth"er's Day.  A day appointed for the honor and uplift of motherhood by the loving remembrance of each person of his mother through the performance of some act of kindness, visit, tribute, or letter. The founder of the day is Anna Jarvis, of Philadelphia, who designated the second Sunday in May, or for schools the second Friday, as the time, and a white carnation as the badge. 

MOTHERY:  Consisting of, containing, or resembling, mother (in vinegar). 

MOTHY:  Infested with moths; moth-eaten. "An old mothy saddle." Shak. 

MOTIF:  Motive. 

MOTIFIC:  Producing motion. [R.] 

MOTILE:  Having powers of self-motion, though unconscious; as, the motile spores of certain seaweeds.  2. Producing motion; as, motile powers. 

MOTILITY:  Capability of motion; contractility. 

MOTION:  An application made to a court or judge orally in open court. Its object is to obtain an order or rule directing some act to be done in favor of the applicant. Mozley & W.  8. (Mus.)  Change of pitch in successive sounds, whether in the same part or in groups of parts. The independent motions of different parts sounding together constitute counterpoint. Grove.  Note: Conjunct motion is that by single degrees of the scale. Contrary motion is that when parts move in opposite directions. Disjunct motion is motion by skips. Oblique motion is that when one part is stationary while another moves. Similar or direct motion is that when parts move in the same direction.  9. A puppet show or puppet. [Obs.] What motion's this the model of Nineveh Beau. & Fl.  Note: Motion, in mechanics, may be simple or compound. Simple motions are: (a) straight translation, which, if of indefinite duration, must be reciprocating. (b) Simple rotation, which may be either continuous or reciprocating, and when reciprocating is called oscillating. (c) Helical, which, if of indefinite duration, must be reciprocating. Compound motion consists of combinations of any of the simple motions. Center of motion, Harmonic motion, etc. See under Center, Harmonic, etc.  -- Motion block (Steam Engine), a crosshead.  -- Perpetual motion (Mech.), an incessant motion conceived to be attainable by a machine supplying its own motive forces independently of any action from without.  Syn.  -- See Movement. 

MOTIONER:  One who makes a motion; a mover. Udall. 

MOTIONIST:  A mover. [Obs.] 

MOTIONLESS:  Without motion; being at rest.  MOTION PICTURE Mo"tion pic"ture.  A moving picture. 

MOTIVATE:  To provide with a motive; to move; impel; induce; incite. -- Mo`ti*va"tion (#), n.  William James. 

MOTIVE:  The theme or subject; a leading phrase or passage which is reproduced and varied through the course of a comor a movement; a short figure, or melodic germ, out of which a whole movement is develpoed. See also Leading motive, under Leading. [Written also motivo.]  4. (Fine Arts)  That which produces conception, invention, or creation in the mind of the artist in undertaking his subject; the guiding or controlling idea manifested in a work of art, or any part of one.  Syn.  -- Incentive; incitement; inducement; reason; spur; stimulus; cause.  -- Motive, Inducement, Reason. Motive is the word originally used in speaking of that which determines the choice. We call it an inducement when it is attractive in its nature. We call it a reason when it is more immediately addressed to the intellect in the form of argument. 

MOTIVE:  Causing motion; having power to move, or tending to move; as, a motive argument; motive power. "Motive faculty." Bp. Wilkins. Motive power (Mach.), a natural agent, as water, steam, wind, electricity, etc., used to impart motion to machinery; a motor; a mover. 

MOTIVE:  To prompt or incite by a motive or motives; to move. 

MOTIVELESS:  Destitute of a motive; not incited by a motive.  -- Mo"tive*less*ness, n. G. Eliot. 

MOTIVO:  See Motive, n., 3, 4. 

MOTLEY:  Having a mind of a jester; foolish. Shak. 

MOTMOT:  Any one of several species of long-tailed, passerine birds of the genus Momotus, having a strong serrated beak. In most of the species the two long middle tail feathers are racket-shaped at the tip, when mature. The bird itself is said by some writers to trim them into this shape. They feed on insects, reptiles, and fruit, and are found from Mexico to Brazil. The name is derived from its note. [Written also momot.] 

MOTO:  Movement; manner of movement; particularly, movement with increased rapidity; -- used especially in the phrase con moto, directing to a somewhat quicker movement; as, andante con moto, a little more rapidly than andante, etc. 

MOTOGRAPH:  A device utilized in the making of a loud-speaking telephone, depending on the fact that the friction between a metallic point and a moving cylinder of moistened chalk, or a moving slip of paper, on which it rests is diminished by the passage of a current between the point and the moving surface. -- Mo`to*graph"ic (#), a. 

MOTON:  A small plate covering the armpit in armor of the 14th century and later. 

MOTOR:  A prime mover; a machine by means of which a source of power, as steam, moving water, electricity, etc., is made available for doing mechanical work.  MOTOR; MOTORY; MOTORIAL Mo"tor, Mo"to*ry, Mo*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. motorius that has motion. See Motor, n.]  Causing or setting up motion; pertaining to organs of motion; - - applied especially in physiology to those nerves or nerve fibers which only convey impressions from a nerve center to muscles, thereby causing motion.  MOTOR CAR; MOTORCAR Motor car, or Mo"tor*car`, n.  1. An automobile, locomobile, or locomotive designed to run and be steered on a street or roadway; esp., an automobile specially designed for passengers.  2.  (Elec. Railroads) Any car containing motors for propulsion. [U. S.]  MOTOR CYCLE; MOTORCYCLE Motor cycle, or Mo"tor*cy`cle, n.  A bicycle having a motor attached so as to be self-propelled. In Great Britain the term motor cycle is treated by statute (3 Ed VII. c. 36) as limited to motor cars (self-propelled vehicles) designed to travel on not more than three wheels, and weighing unladen (that is, without water, fuel, or accumulators necessary for propulsion) not more than three hundred weight (336 lbs.).  MOTOR-DRIVEN Mo`tor-driv`en, a. (Mach.)  Driven or actuated by a motor, esp. by an individual electric motor. An electric motor forms an integral part of many machine tools in numerous modern machine shops.  MOTOR GENERATOR Motor generator.  The combination consisting of a generator and a driving motor mechanically connected, usually on a common bedplate and with the two shafts directly coupled or combined into a single shaft. 

MOTORING:  Act or recreation of riding in or driving a motor car or automobile. 

MOTORING:  Pertaining to motor cars or automobiles, or to the technology of such; addicted to riding in or driving automobiles; as, motoring parlance; my motoring friend. 

MOTORIZE:  To substitute motor-driven vehicles, or automobiles, for the horses and horse-drawn vehicles of (a fire department, city, etc.). - -Mo`tor*i*za"tion (#), n. 

MOTORMAN:  A man who controls a motor. 

MOTORPATHIC:  Of or pertaining to motorpathy. 

MOTORPATHY:  Kinesiatrics. 

MOTTE:  A clump of trees in a prairie. [Local, U.S.] 

MOTTLE:  To mark with spots of different color, or shades of color, as if stained; to spot; to maculate. 

MOTTLE:  A mottled appearance. 

MOTTLED:  Marked with spots of different colors; variegated; spotted; as, mottled wood. "The mottled meadows." Drayton. 

MOTTO:  A sentence, phrase, or word, forming part of an heraldic achievment.  2. A sentence, phrase, or word, prefixed to an essay, discourse, chapter, canto, or the like, suggestive of its subject matter; a short, suggestive expression of a guiding principle; a maxim. It was the motto of a bishop eminent for his piety and good works, ... "Serve God, and be cheerful." Addison. 

MOTTOED:  Bearing or having a motto; as, a mottoed coat or device. 

MOTTY:  Full of, or consisting of, motes. [Written also mottie.] [Scot.] The motty dust reek raised by the workmen. H. Miller. 

MOUCHOIR:  A handkerchief. 

MOUEZZIN:  See Muezzin. 

MOUFLON:  A wild sheep (Ovis musimon), inhabiting the mountains of Sardinia, Corsica, etc. Its horns are very large, with a triangular base and rounded angles. It is supposed by some to be the original of the domestic sheep. Called also musimon or musmon. [Written also moufflon.] 

MOUGHT:  of May. Might. 

MOUILLATION:  The act of uttering the sound of a mouillé letter. 

MOUILLE:  Applied to certain consonants having a "liquid" or softened sound; e.g., in French, l or ll and gn (like the lli in million and ni in minion); in Italian, gl and gn; in Spanish, ll and ñ; in Portuguese, lh and nh.  MOULD; MOULDER; MOULDY Mould, Mould"er, Mould"y, etc.  See Mold, Molder, Moldy, etc. 

MOULE:  To contract mold; to grow moldy; to mold. [Obs.] Let us not moulen thus in idleness. Chaucer.  MOULINE; MOULINET Mou*line", Mou"li*net, n. Etym: [F. moulinet, orig., a little mill, dim. of moulin mill. See Mill.]  1. The drum upon which the rope is wound in a capstan, crane, or the like.  2. A machine formerly used for bending a crossbow by winding it up.  3. In sword and saber exercises, a circular swing of the weawon. 

MOULT:  See Molt. 

MOULTEN:  Having molted. [Obs.] "A moulten raven." Shak. 

MOUN:  pl. of Mow, may. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

MOUNCH:  To munch. [Obs.] 

MOUND:  A ball or globe forming part of the regalia of an emperor or other sovereign. It is encircled with bands, enriched with precious stones, and surmounted with a cross; -- called also globe. 

MOUND:  An artificial hill or elevation of earth; a raised bank; an embarkment thrown up for defense; a bulwark; a rampart; also, a natural elevation appearing as if thrown up artificially; a regular and isolated hill, hillock, or knoll. To thrid the thickets or to leap the mounds. Dryden. Mound bird. (Zoöl.) Same as Mound maker (below).  -- Mound builders (Ethnol.), the tribe, or tribes, of North American aborigines who built, in former times, extensive mounds of earth, esp. in the valleys of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers. Formerly they were supposed to have preceded the Indians, but later investigations go to show that they were, in general, identical with the tribes that occupied the country when discovered by Europeans.  -- Mound maker (Zoöl.), any one of the megapodes.  -- Shell mound, a mound of refuse shells, collected by aborigines who subsisted largely on shellfish. See Midden, and Kitchen middens. 

MOUND:  To fortify or inclose with a mound. 

MOUNT:  A bank; a fund. Mount of piety. See Mont de piété. 

MOUNT:  That upon which a person or thing is mounted, as: (a) A horse. She had so good a seat and hand, she might be trusted with any mount. G. Eliot.  (b) The cardboard or cloth on which a drawing, photograph, or the like is mounted; a mounting. 

MOUNTABLE:  Such as can be mounted. 

MOUNTAIN:  A range, chain, or group of such elevations; as, the White Mountains.  3. A mountainlike mass; something of great bulk. I should have been a mountain of mummy. Shak. The Mountain (La montagne) (French Hist.), a popular name given in 1793 to a party of extreme Jacobins in the National Convention, who occupied the highest rows of seats. 

MOUNTAINEER:  To lie or act as a mountaineer; to climb mountains. You can't go mountaineering in a flat country. H. James. 

MOUNTAINER:  A mountaineer. [Obs.] 

MOUNTAINET:  A small mountain. [R.] 

MOUNTAINOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being mountainous.  MOUNTAIN SPECTER Moun"tain spec"ter.  An optical phenomenon sometimes seen on the summit of mountains (as on the Brocken) when the observer is between the sun and a mass of cloud. The figures of the observer and surrounding objects are seen projected on the cloud, greatly enlarged and often encircled by rainbow colors.  MOUNTAIN STATE Moun"tain State.  Montana; -- a nickname. 

MOUNTANCE:  Amount; sum; quantity; extent. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOUNTANT:  Raised; high. [Obs.] 

MOUNTEBANK:  To cheat by boasting and false pretenses; to gull. [R.] Shak. 

MOUNTEBANK:  To play the mountebank. 

MOUNTEBANKERY:  The practices of a mountebank; quackery; boastful and vain pretenses. 

MOUNTEBANKISH:  Like a mountebank or his quackery. Howell. 

MOUNTEBANKISM:  The practices of a mountebank; mountebankery. 

MOUNTENAUNCE:  Mountance. [Obs.] 

MOUNTINGLY:  In an ascending manner. 

MOUNTLET:  A small or low mountain. [R.] 

MOUNTY:  The rise of a hawk after prey. Sir P. Sidney. 

MOURNE:  The armed or feruled end of a staff; in a sheephook, the end of the staff to which the hook is attached. Sir P. Sidney. 

MOURNFUL:  Full of sorrow; expressing, or intended to express, sorrow; mourning; grieving; sad; also, causing sorrow; saddening; grievous; as, a mournful person; mournful looks, tones, loss.  -- Mourn"ful*ly, adv.  -- Mourn"ful*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Sorrowful; lugubrious; sad; doleful; heavy; afflictive; grievous; calamitous. 

MOURNINGLY:  In a mourning manner. 

MOURNIVAL:  See Murnival. 

MOUSE:  Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the genus Mus and various related genera of the family Muridæ. The common house mouse (Mus musculus) is found in nearly all countries. The American white-footed, or deer, mouse (Hesperomys leucopus) sometimes lives in houses. See Dormouse, Meadow mouse, under Meadow, and Harvest mouse, under Harvest.  2. (Naut.) (a) A knob made on a rope with spun yarn or parceling to prevent a running eye from slipping. (b) Same as 2d Mousing, 2.  3. A familiar term of endearment. Shak.  4. A dark-colored swelling caused by a blow. [Slang]  5. A match used in firing guns or blasting. Field mouse, Flying mouse, etc. See under Field, Flying, etc.  -- Mouse bird (Zoöl.), a coly.  -- Mouse deer (Zoöl.), a chevrotain, as the kanchil.  -- Mouse galago (Zoöl.), a very small West American galago (Galago murinus). In color and size it resembles a mouse. It has a bushy tail like that of a squirrel.  -- Mouse hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A hawk that devours mice. (b) The hawk owl; -- called also mouse owl.  -- Mouse lemur (Zoöl.), any one of several species of very small lemurs of the genus Chirogaleus, found in Madagascar.  -- Mouse piece (Cookery), the piece of beef cut from the part next below the round or from the lower part of the latter; -- called also mouse buttock. 

MOUSE:  To furnish with a mouse; to secure by means of a mousing. See Mouse, n., 2.  MOUSE-EAR Mouse"-ear`, n. (Bot.) (a) The forget-me-not (Myosotis palustris) and other species of the same genus. (b) A European species of hawkweed (Hieracium Pilosella). Mouse-ear chickweed, a name of two common species of chickweed (Cerastium vulgarium, and C. viscosum).  -- Mouse-ear cress, a low cruciferous herb (Sisymbrium Thaliana). All these are low herbs with soft, oval, or obovate leaves, whence the name. 

MOUSEFISH:  See Frogfish. 

MOUSEHOLE:  A hole made by a mouse, for passage or abode, as in a wall; hence, a very small hole like that gnawed by a mouse. 

MOUSEKIN:  A little mouse. Thackeray. 

MOUSETAIL:  A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Myosurus), in which the prolonged receptacle is covered with imbricating achenes, and so resembles the tail of a mouse. 

MOUSIE:  Diminutive for Mouse. Burns. 

MOUSING:  Impertinently inquisitive; prying; meddlesome. "Mousing saints." L'Estrange. 

MOUSING:  A turn or lashing of spun yarn or small stuff, or a metallic clasp or fastening, uniting the point and shank of a hook to prevent its unhooking or straighening out.  3. A ratchet movement in a loom. Mousing hook, a hook with an attachment which prevents its unhooking. 

MOUSLE:  To sport with roughly; to rumple. [Written also mouzle.] [Obs.] Wycherley. 

MOUSQUETAIRE:  A deep flaring cuff.  MOUSQUETAIRE GLOVE Mousquetaire glove.  A woman's glove with a long, loosely fitting wrist. 

MOUSSE:  A frozen dessert of a frothy texture, made of sweetened and flavored whipped cream, sometimes with the addition of egg yolks and gelatin. Mousse differs from ice cream in being beaten before -- not during -- the freezing process. 

MOUSSELINE:  Muslin. Mousseline de laine (. Etym: [F., muslin of wool.] Muslin delaine. See under Muslin.  -- Mousseline glass, a kind of thin blown glassware, such as wineglasses, etc.  MOUSSELINE DE SOIE Mousse`line de soie". [F.]  A soft thin silk fabric with a weave like that of muslin. 

MOUSTACHE:  Mustache. 

MOUSY:  Infested with mice; smelling of mice. 

MOUTAN:  The Chinese tree peony (Pæonia Mountan), a shrub with large flowers of various colors. 

MOUTH:  An opening affording entrance or exit; orifice; aperture; as: (a) The opening of a vessel by which it is filled or emptied, charged or discharged; as, the mouth of a jar or pitcher; the mouth of the lacteal vessels, etc. (b) The opening or entrance of any cavity, as a cave, pit, well, or den. (c) The opening of a piece of ordnance, through which it is discharged. (d) The opening through which the waters of a river or any stream are discharged. (e) The entrance into a harbor.  3. (Saddlery)  The crosspiece of a bridle bit, which enters the mouth of an animal.  4. A principal speaker; one who utters the common opinion; a mouthpiece. Every coffeehouse has some particular statesman belonging to it, who is the mouth of the street where he lives. Addison.  5. Cry; voice. [Obs.] Dryden.  6. Speech; language; testimony. That in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Matt. xviii. 16.  7. A wry face; a grimace; a mow. Counterfeit sad looks, Make mouths upon me when I turn my back. Shak. Down in the mouth, chapfallen; of dejected countenance; depressed; discouraged. [Obs. or Colloq.] -- Mouth friend, one who professes friendship insincerely. Shak.  -- Mouth glass, a small mirror for inspecting the mouth or teeth.  -- Mouth honor, honor given in words, but not felt. Shak.  -- Mouth organ. (Mus.) (a) Pan's pipes. See Pandean. (b) An harmonicon.  -- Mouth pipe, an organ pipe with a lip or plate to cut the escaping air and make a sound.  -- To stop the mouth, to silence or be silent; to put to shame; to confound. The mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped. Ps. lxiii. 11. Whose mouths must be stopped. Titus i. 11. 

MOUTHER:  One who mouths; an affected speaker.  MOUTH-FOOTED Mouth"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the basal joints of the legs converted into jaws. 

MOUTHLESS:  Destitute of a mouth.  MOUTH-MADE Mouth"-made`, a.  Spoken without sincerity; not heartfelt. "Mouth-made vows." Shak. 

MOVABILITY:  Movableness. 

MOVABLE:  Property not attached to the soil.  Note: The word is not convertible with personal property, since rents and similar incidents of the soil which are personal property by our law are immovables by the Roman law. Wharton. 

MOVABLENESS:  The quality or state of being movable; mobility; susceptibility of motion. 

MOVABLY:  In a movable manner or condition. 

MOVE:  To transfer (a piece or man) from one space or position to another, according to the rules of the game; as, to move a king.  3. To excite to action by the presentation of motives; to rouse by representation, persuasion, or appeal; to influence. Minds desirous of revenge were not moved with gold. Knolles. No female arts his mind could move. Dryden.  4. To arouse the feelings or passions of; especially, to excite to tenderness or compassion; to touch pathetically; to excite, as an emotion. Shak. When he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them. Matt. ix. 36. [The use of images] in orations and poetry is to move pity or terror. Felton.  5. To propose; to recommend; specifically, to propose formally for consideration and determination, in a deliberative assembly; to submit, as a resolution to be adopted; as, to move to adjourn. Let me but move one question to your daughter. Shak. They are to be blamed alike who move and who decline war upon particular respects. Hayward.  6. To apply to, as for aid. [Obs.] Shak.  Syn.  -- To stir; agitate; trouble; affect; persuade; influence; actuate; impel; rouse; prompt; instigate; incite; induce; incline; propose; offer. 

MOVE:  To change the place of a piece in accordance with the rules of the game. 

MOVE:  The act of moving one of the pieces, from one position to another, in the progress of the game.  3. An act for the attainment of an object; a step in the execution of a plan or purpose. To make a move. (a) To take some action. (b) To move a piece, as in a game.  -- To be on the move, to bustle or stir about. [Colloq.] 

MOVELESS:  Motionless; fixed. "Moveless as a tower." Pope. 

MOVEMENT:  A system of mechanism for transmitting motion of a definite character, or for transforming motion; as, the wheelwork of a watch. Febrille movement (Med.), an elevation of the body temperature; a fever.  -- Movement cure. (Med.) See Kinesiatrics.  -- Movement of the bowels, an evacuation or stool; a passage or discharge.  Syn.  -- Motion.  -- Movement, Motion. Motion expresses a general idea of not being at rest; movement is oftener used to express a definite, regulated motion, esp. a progress. 

MOVENT:  Moving. [R.] Grew. 

MOVENT:  That which moves anything. [R.] 

MOVIE:  A moving picture or a moving picture show; -- commonly used in pl. [Slang or Colloq.] 

MOVING:  The act of changing place or posture; esp., the act of changing one's dwelling place or place of business. Moving day, a day when one moves; esp., a day when a large number of tenants change their dwelling place. 

MOVINGLY:  In a moving manner. Addison. 

MOVINGNESS:  The power of moving.  MOVING PICTURE Moving picture.  A series of pictures, usually photographs taken with a special machine, presented to the eye in very rapid succession, with some or all of the objects in the picture represented in slightly changed positions, producing, by persistence of vision, the optical effect of a continuous picture in which the objects move in some manner, as that of some original scene. The usual form of moving pictures is that produced by the cinematograph. 

MOW:  A wry face. "Make mows at him." Shak. 

MOW:  To make mouths. Nodding, becking, and mowing. Tyndale. 

MOW:  Same as Mew, a gull. 

MOW:  May; can. "Thou mow now escapen." [Obs.] Chaucer. Our walles mowe not make hem resistence. Chaucer. 

MOW:  To cut grass, etc., with a scythe, or with a machine; to cut grass for hay. 

MOW:  To lay, as hay or sheaves of grain, in a heap or mass in a barn; to pile and stow away. 

MOWBURN:  To heat and ferment in the mow, as hay when housed too green. 

MOWE:  See 4th Mow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

MOWE:  See 1st & 2d Mow. [Obs.] 

MOWER:  One who, or that which, mows; a mowing machine; as, a lawn mower. 

MOWN:  Cut down by mowing, as grass; deprived of grass by mowing; as, a mown field. 

MOWYER:  A mower. [Obs.] 

MOXA:  A soft woolly mass prepared from the young leaves of Artemisia Chinensis, and used as a cautery by burning it on the skin; hence, any substance used in a like manner, as cotton impregnated with niter, amadou.  2. (Bot.)  A plant from which this substance is obtained, esp. Artemisia Chinensis, and A. moxa. 

MOYA:  Mud poured out from volcanoes during eruptions; -- so called in South America. 

MOYLE:  See Moil, and Moile.  MOZARAB; MOZARABIC Moz"a*rab, Moz`a*rab"ic.  Same as Muzarab, Muzarabic.  MOZETTA; MOZZETTA Mo*zet"ta, Moz*zet"ta, n. Etym: [It. mozzetta: cf. F. mosette. Cf. Amice a hood or cape.] (Eccl.)  A cape, with a small hood; -- worn by the pope and other dignitaries of the Roman Catholic Church.  MR. Mr.. (.  The customary abbreviation of Mister in writing and printing. See Master, 4.  MRS. Mrs. (.  The customary abbreviation of Mistress when used as a title of courtesy, in writing and printing. 

MUCAMIDE:  The acid amide of mucic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance. 

MUCATE:  A salt of mucic acid. 

MUCE:  See Muse, and Muset. 

MUCEDIN:  A yellowish white, amorphous, nitrogenous substance found in wheat, rye, etc., and resembling gluten; -- formerly called also mucin. 

MUCH:  To a great degree or extent; greatly; abundantly; far; nearly. "Much suffering heroes." Pope. Thou art much mightier than we. Gen. xxvi. 16. Excellent speech becometh not a fool, much less do lying lips a prince. Prov. xvii. 7. Henceforth I fly not death, nor would prolong Life much. Milton. All left the world much as they found it. Sir W. Temple. 

MUCHEL:  Much. [Obs.] 

MUCHNESS:  Greatness; extent. [Obs. or Colloq.] The quantity and muchness of time which it filcheth. W. Whately. Much of a muchness, much the same. [Colloq.] "Men's men; gentle or simple, they 're much of muchness." G. Eliot. 

MUCHWHAT:  Nearly; almost; much. [Obs.] "Muchwhat after the same manner." Glanvill. 

MUCIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, gums and micilaginous substances; specif., denoting an acid obtained by the oxidation of gums, dulcite, etc., as a white crystalline substance isomeric with saccharic acid. 

MUCID:  Musty; moldy; slimy; mucous.  -- Mu"cid*ness, n. 

MUCIFIC:  Inducing or stimulating the secretion of mucus; blennogenous.  2. (Physiol.)  Secreting mucus. 

MUCIFORM:  Resembling mucus; having the character or appearance of mucus. 

MUCIGEN:  A substance which is formed in mucous epithelial cells, and gives rise to mucin. 

MUCIGENOUS:  Connected with the formation of mucin; resembling mucin. The mucigenous basis is manufactured at the expense of the ordinary protoplasm of the cell. Foster. 

MUCILAGE:  A gummy or gelatinous substance produced in certain plants by the action of water on the cell wall, as in the seeds of quinces, of flax, etc.  2. An aqueous solution of gum, or of substances allied to it; as, medicinal mucilage; mucilage for fastening envelopes. 

MUCIN:  See Mucedin. [Obs.]  2. (Physiol. Chem.)  An albuminoid substance which is contained in mucus, and gives to the latter secretion its peculiar ropy character. It is found in all the secretions from mucous glands, and also between the fibers of connective tissue, as in tendons. See Illust. of Demilune. 

MUCINOGEN:  Same as Mucigen. 

MUCIPAROUS:  Secreting, or producing, mucus or mucin. 

MUCIVORE:  An unsect which feeds on mucus, or the sap of plants, as certain Diptera, of the tribe Mucivora. 

MUCK:  , abbreviation of Amuck. To run a muck. See Amuck. 

MUCK:  Like muck; mucky; also, used in collecting or distributing muck; as, a muck fork. 

MUCK:  To manure with muck. 

MUCKENDER:  A handkerchief. [Obs.] [Written also muckinder, muckiter, mockadour.] 

MUCKER:  A term of reproach for a low or vulgar labor person. [Slang] 

MUCKER:  To scrape together, as money, by mean labor or shifts. [Obs.] Udall. 

MUCKERER:  A miser; a niggard. [Obs.] 

MUCKINESS:  The quality of being mucky. 

MUCKLE:  Much. [Obs.] 

MUCKMIDDEN:  A dunghill. [Scot.]  MUCK RAKE Muck rake.  A rake for scraping up muck or dung. See Muckrake, v. i., below.  MUCK-RAKE; MUCKRAKE; MUCKRAKER Muck"rake`, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. -raked; p. pr. & vb. n. -raking.]  To seek for, expose, or charge, esp. habitually, corruption, real or alleged, on the part of public men and corporations. On April 14, 1906, President Roosevelt delivered a speech on "The Man with the Muck Rake," in which he deprecated sweeping and unjust charges of corruption against public men and corporations. The phrase was taken up by the press, and the verb to muck"rake`, in the above sense, and the noun muck"rak`er, to designate one so engaged, were speedily coined and obtained wide currency. The original allusion was to a character in Bunyan's "Pilgrim's Progress" so intent on raking up muck that he could not see a celestial crown held above him. 

MUCKSY:  Somewhat mucky; soft, sticky, and dirty; muxy. [Prov. Eng.] R. D. Blackmore. 

MUCKWORM:  A larva or grub that lives in muck or manure; -- applied to the larvæ of the tumbledung and allied beetles.  2. One who scrapes together money by mean labor and devices; a miser. "Misers are muckworms." Pope. 

MUCOCELE:  An enlargement or protrusion of the mucous membrane of the lachrymal passages, or dropsy of the lachrymal sac, dependent upon catarrhal inflammation of the latter. Dunglison. 

MUCOID:  Resembling mucus. Dunglison. Mucoid degeneration, a form of degeneration in which the tissues are transformed into a semisolid substance resembling mucus. Quain. 

MUCONATE:  A salt of muconic acid. 

MUCONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid, obtained indirectly from mucic acid, and somewhat resembling itaconic acid. 

MUCOPURULENT:  Having the character or appearance of both mucus and pus. Dunglison. 

MUCOR:  A genus of minute fungi. The plants consist of slender threads with terminal globular sporangia; mold. 

MUCOSITY:  The quality or state of being mucous or slimy; mucousness. 

MUCOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being mucous; sliminess. 

MUCRO:  A minute abrupt point, as of a leaf; any small, sharp point or process, terminating a larger part or organ.  MUCRONATE; MUCRONATED Mu"cro*nate, Mu"cro*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. mucronatus, fr. mucro a sharp point: cf. F. mucroné.]  Ending abruptly in a sharp point; abruptly tipped with a short and sharp point; as, a mucronate leaf.  -- Mu"cro*nate*ly, adv. 

MUCRONULATE:  Having, or tipped with, a small point or points. 

MUCULENT:  Slimy; moist, and moderately viscous. 

MUCUS:  A viscid fluid secreted by mucous membranes, which it serves to moisten and protect. It covers the lining membranes of all the cavities which open externally, such as those of the mouth, nose, lungs, intestinal canal, urinary passages, etc.  2. (Physiol.)  Any other animal fluid of a viscid quality, as the synovial fluid, which lubricates the cavities of the joints; -- improperly so used.  3. (Bot.)  A gelatinous or slimy substance found in certain algæ and other plants. 

MUCUSIN:  Mucin. [R.] 

MUD:  Earth and water mixed so as to be soft and adhesive. Mud bass (Zoöl.), a fresh-water fish (Acantharchum pomotis) of the Eastern United States. It produces a deep grunting note.  -- Mud bath, an immersion of the body, or some part of it, in mud charged with medicinal agents, as a remedy for disease.  -- Mud boat, a large flatboat used in deredging.  -- Mud cat. See Catfish.  -- Mud crab (Zoöl.), any one of several American marine crabs of the genus Panopeus.  -- Mud dab (Zoöl.), the winter flounder. See Flounder, and Dab.  -- Mud dauber (Zoöl.), a mud wasp.  -- Mud devil (Zoöl.), the fellbender.  -- Mud drum (Steam Boilers), a drum beneath a boiler, into which sediment and mud in the water can settle for removal.  -- Mud eel (Zoöl.), a long, slender, aquatic amphibian (Siren lacertina), found in the Southern United States. It has persistent external gills and only the anterior pair of legs. See Siren.  -- Mud frog (Zoöl.), a European frog (Pelobates fuscus).  -- Mud hen. (Zoöl.) (a) The American coot (Fulica Americana). (b) The clapper rail.  -- Mud lark, a person who cleans sewers, or delves in mud. [Slang] - - Mud minnow (Zoöl.), any small American fresh-water fish of the genus Umbra, as U. limi. The genus is allied to the pickerels.  -- Mud plug, a plug for stopping the mudhole of a boiler.  -- Mud puppy (Zoöl.), the menobranchus.  -- Mud scow, a heavy scow, used in dredging; a mud boat. [U.S.] -- Mud turtle, Mud tortoise (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of fresh-water tortoises of the United States.  -- Mud wasp (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to Pepæus, and allied genera, which construct groups of mud cells, attached, side by side, to stones or to the woodwork of buildings, etc. The female places an egg in each cell, together with spiders or other insects, paralyzed by a sting, to serve as food for the larva. Called also mud dauber. 

MUDAR:  Either one of two asclepiadaceous shrubs (Calotropis gigantea, and C. procera), which furnish a strong and valuable fiber. The acrid milky juice is used medicinally. 

MUDARIN:  A brown, amorphous, bitter substance having a strong emetic action, extracted from the root of the mudar. 

MUDDILY:  , In a muddy manner; turbidly; without mixture; cloudily; obscurely; confusedly. 

MUDDLE:  A state of being turbid or confused; hence, intellectual cloudiness or dullness. We both grub on in a muddle. Dickens. 

MUDDLEHEAD:  A stupid person. [Colloq.] C. Reade.  -- Mud"dle-head`ed, a. [Colloq.] Dickens. 

MUDDLER:  One who, or that which, muddles. 

MUDDY:  Dull; stupid.  MUDDY-METTLED Mud"dy-met`tled, a.  Dull-spirited. Shak. 

MUDHOLE:  A hole near the bottom, through which the sediment is withdrawn. 

MUDIR:  Same as Moodir. 

MUDSILL:  The lowest sill of a structure, usually embedded in the soil; the lowest timber of a house; also, that sill or timber of a bridge which is laid at the bottom of the water. See Sill. 

MUDSUCKER:  A woodcock. 

MUDWALL:  The European bee-eater. See Bee-eater. [Written also modwall.] 

MUDWORT:  A small herbaceous plant growing on muddy shores (Limosella aquatica). 

MUE:  To mew; to molt. [Obs.] Quarles. 

MUEZZIN:  A Mohammedan crier of the hour of prayer. [Written also mouezzin, mueddin, and muwazzin.] 

MUFF:  A short hollow cylinder surrounding an object, as a pipe.  3. (Glass Manuf.)  A blown cylinder of glass which is afterward flattened out to make a sheet.  4. Etym: [Perhaps a different word; cf. Prov. E. maffle to slammer.]  A stupid fellow; a poor-spirited person. [Colloq.] "A muff of a curate." Thackeray.  5. Etym: [See 4.] (Baseball)  A failure to hold a ball when once in the hands.  6. (Zoöl.)  The whitethroat. [Prov. Eng.] 

MUFF:  To handle awkwardly; to fumble; to fail to hold, as a ball, in catching it. 

MUFFETEE:  A small muff worn over the wrist. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

MUFFIN:  A light, spongy, cylindrical cake, used for breakfast and tea. 

MUFFINEER:  A dish for keeping muffins hot. 

MUFFISH:  Stupid; awkward. [Colloq.] 

MUFFLE:  The bare end of the nose between the nostrils; -- used esp. of ruminants. 

MUFFLE:  To speak indistinctly, or without clear articulation. 

MUFFLE:  An earthenware compartment or oven, often shaped like a half cylinder, used in furnaces to protect objects heated from the direct action of the fire, as in scorification of ores, cupellation of ore buttons, etc.  3. (Ceramics)  A small oven for baking and fixing the colors of painted or printed pottery, without exposing the pottery to the flames of the furnace or kiln.  4. A pulley block containing several sheaves. Knight. 

MUFFLER:  A cushion for terminating or softening a note made by a stringed instrument with a keyboard.  3. A kind of mitten or boxing glove, esp. when stuffed.  4. One who muffles. 

MUFLON:  See Mouflon. 

MUFTI:  An official expounder of Mohammedan law. 

MUFTI:  Citizen's dress when worn by a naval or military officer; -- a term derived from the British service in India. [Colloq. Eng.] 

MUGGARD:  Sullen; displeased. [Obs.]  MUGGER; MUGGAR; MUGGUR Mug"ger, n. Also Mug"gar, Mug"gur. [Hind. magar, fr. Skr. makara sea monster.]  The common crocodile (Crocodilus palustris) of India, the East Indies, etc. It becomes twelve feet or more long. 

MUGGET:  The small entrails of a calf or a hog. 

MUGGINESS:  The condition or quality of being muggy. 

MUGGINS:  In certain games, to score against, or take an advantage over (an opponent), as for an error, announcing the act by saying "muggins." 

MUGGISH:  See Muggy. 

MUGGLETONIAN:  One of an extinct sect, named after Ludovic Muggleton, an English journeyman tailor, who (about 1657) claimed to be inspired. Eadie. 

MUGHOUSE:  An alehouse; a pothouse. Tickel. 

MUGIENCY:  A bellowing. [Obs.] 

MUGIENT:  Lowing; bellowing. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

MUGIL:  A genus of fishes including the gray mullets. See Mullet. 

MUGILOID:  Like or pertaining to the genus Mugil, or family Mugilidæ. 

MUGWEED:  A slender European weed (Galium Cruciata); -- called also crossweed. 

MUGWORT:  A somewhat aromatic composite weed (Artemisia vulgaris), at one time used medicinally; -- called also motherwort. 

MUGWUMP:  A bolter from the Republican party in the national election of 1884; an Independent. [Political Cant, U.S.]  MUGWUMPERY; MUGWUMPISM Mug"wump`er*y, Mug"wump*ism, n.  The acts and views of the mugwumps. [Political Cant, U.S.]  MUHAMMADAN; MUHAMMEDAN Mu*ham"mad*an, Mu*ham"med*an, a. & n.  Mohammedan. 

MUHAMMADANISM:  Mohammedanism. 

MULADA:  A moor. [Scot.] Lockhart. 

MULADA:  A drove of mules. [Southwest. U.S.] 

MULATTO:  The offspring of a negress by a white man, or of a white woman by a negro, -- usually of a brownish yellow complexion. 

MULATTRESS:  A female mulatto. G. W. Gable. 

MULBERRY:  The berry or fruit of any tree of the genus Morus; also, the tree itself. See Morus.  2. A dark pure color, like the hue of a black mulberry. Mulberry mass. (Biol.) See Morula.  -- Paper mulberry, a tree (Broussonetia papyrifera), related to the true mulberry, used in Polynesia for making tapa cloth by macerating and pounding the inner bark, and in China and Japan for the manufacture of paper. It is seen as a shade tree in America.  MULBERRY-FACED Mul"ber*ry-faced` (-fast`), a.  Having a face of a mulberry color, or blotched as if with mulberry stains. 

MULCH:  Half-rotten straw, or any like substance strewn on the ground, as over the roots of plants, to protect from heat, drought, etc., and to preserve moisture. 

MULCH:  To cover or dress with mulch. 

MULCT:  Imposing a pecuniary penalty; consisting of, or paid as, a fine. Fines, or some known mulctuary punishments. Sir W. Temple. 

MULE:  A hybrid animal; specifically, one generated between an ass and a mare, sometimes a horse and a she-ass. See Hinny.  Note: Mules are much used as draught animals. They are hardy, and proverbial for stubbornness.  2. (Bot.)  A plant or vegetable produced by impregnating the pistil of one species with the pollen or fecundating dust of another; -- called also hybrid.  3. A very stubborn person.  4. A machine, used in factories, for spinning cotton, wool, etc., into yarn or thread and winding it into cops; -- called also jenny and mule-jenny. Mule armadillo (Zoöl.), a long-eared armadillo (Tatusia hybrida), native of Buenos Ayres; -- called also mulita. See Illust. under Armadillo.  -- Mule deer (Zoöl.), a large deer (Cervus, or Cariacus, macrotis) of the Western United States. The name refers to its long ears.  -- Mule pulley (Mach.), an idle pulley for guiding a belt which transmits motion between shafts that are not parallel.  -- Mule twist, cotton yarn in cops, as spun on a mule; -- in distinction from yarn spun on a throstle frame.  MULE-JENNY Mule"-jen`ny, n.  See Mule, 4.  MULE KILLER Mule killer.  Any of several arthropods erroneously supposed to kill live stock, in the southern United States, by stinging or by being swallowed; as:  (a) A whip scorpion. [Florida]  (b) A walking-stick insect. [Texas]  (c) A mantis.  (d) A wheel bug. 

MULETEER:  One who drives mules. 

MULEWORT:  A fern of the genus Hemionitis. 

MULEY:  A stiff, long saw, guided at the ends but not stretched in a gate. Muley axle (Railroad), a car axle without collars at the outer ends of the journals. Forney. 

MULEY:  See Mulley. 

MULIERLY:  In the manner or condition of a mulier; in wedlock; legitimately. [Obs.] 

MULIEROSE:  Fond of woman. [R.] Charles Reade. 

MULIEROSITY:  A fondness for women. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

MULIERTY:  Condition of being a mulier; position of one born in lawful wedlock. 

MULISH:  Like a mule; sullen; stubborn.  -- Mul"ish*ly, adv.  -- Mul"ish*ness, n. 

MULL:  A thin, soft kind of muslin. 

MULL:  Dirt; rubbish. [Obs.] Gower. 

MULL:  To powder; to pulverize. [Prov. Eng.] 

MULL:  To work (over) mentally; to cogitate; to ruminate; -- usually with over; as, to mull over a thought or a problem. [Colloq. U.S.] 

MULL:  An inferior kind of madder prepared from the smaller roots or the peelings and refuse of the larger. 

MULLA:  Same as Mollah. 

MULLAGATAWNY:  An East Indian curry soup. 

MULLAH:  See Mollah. 

MULLAR:  A die, cut in intaglio, for stamping an ornament in relief, as upon metal. 

MULLEIN:  Any plant of the genus Verbascum. They are tall herbs having coarse leaves, and large flowers in dense spikes. The common species, with densely woolly leaves, is Verbascum Thapsus. Moth mullein. See under Moth.  -- Mullein foxglove, an American herb (Seymeria macrophylla) with coarse leaves and yellow tubular flowers with a spreading border.  -- Petty mullein, the cowslip. Dr. Prior. 

MULLEN:  See Mullein. 

MULLER:  A stone or thick lump of glass, or kind of pestle, flat at the bottom, used for grinding pigments or drugs, etc., upon a slab of similar material.  MULLERIAN; MUELLERIAN Mül*le"ri*an, a. (Anat.)  Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Johannes Müller. Müllerian ducts (Anat.), a pair of embryonic ducts which give rise to the genital passages in the female, but disappear in the male.  -- Müllerian fibers (Anat.), the sustentacular or connective-tissue fibers which form the framework of the retina. 

MULLET:  Any one of numerous fishes of the genus Mugil; -- called also gray mullets. They are found on the coasts of both continents, and are highly esteemed as food. Among the most valuable species are Mugil capito of Europe, and M. cephalus which occurs both on the European and American coasts.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any species of the genus Mullus, or family Mullidæ; called also red mullet, and surmullet, esp. the plain surmullet (Mullus barbatus), and the striped surmullet (M. surmulletus) of Southern Europe. The former is the mullet of the Romans. It is noted for the brilliancy of its colors. See Surmullet. French mullet. See Ladyfish (a). 

MULLET:  A star, usually five pointed and pierced; -- when used as a difference it indicates the third son. 

MULLET:  Small pinchers for curling the hair. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  MULLEY; MOOLLEY Mul"ley, Mool"ley, n. Etym: [CF. Gael. maolag a hornless cow, maol bald, hornless, blunt.]  1. A mulley or polled animal. [U. S.]  2. A cow. [Prov. Eng.; U.S., a child's word.] Leave milking and dry up old mulley, thy cow. Tusser.  MULLEY; MOOLLEY Mul"ley, Mool"ley, a.  Destitute of horns, although belonging to a species of animals most of which have horns; hornless; polled; as, mulley cattle; a mulley (or moolley) cow. [U. S.] [Written also muley.] 

MULLIGATAWNY:  See Mullagatawny. 

MULLINGONG:  See Duck mole, under Duck. [Written also mollingong.] 

MULLION:  To furnish with mullions; to divide by mullions. 

MULLOCK:  Rubbish; refuse; dirt. [Obs.] All this mullok [was] in a sieve ythrowe. Chaucer. 

MULLOID:  Like or pertaining to the genus Mullus, which includes the surmullet, or red mullet. 

MULMUL:  A fine, soft muslin; mull. 

MULSE:  Wine boiled and mingled with honey.  MULT- Mult-.  See Multi-. 

MULTANGULAR:  Having many angles.  -- Mul*tan"gu*lar*ly, adv.  -- Mul*tan"gu*lar*ness, n. 

MULTANIMOUS:  Many-minded; many-sided. The multanimous nature of the poet. J. R. Lowell. 

MULTARTICULATE:  Having many articulations or joints. 

MULTEITY:  Multiplicity. [R.] Coleridge.  MULTI-; MULT- Mul"ti-, Mult-. Etym: [L. multus much.]  A prefix signifying much or many; several; more than one; as, multiaxial, multocular. 

MULTIAXIAL:  Having more than one axis; developing in more than a single line or plain; -- opposed to Ant: monoaxial. 

MULTICAPSULAR:  Having many, or several, capsules. 

MULTICARINATE:  Many-keeled. 

MULTICAVOUS:  Having many cavities. 

MULTICELLULAR:  Consisting of, or having, many cells or more than one cell. 

MULTICENTRAL:  Having many, or several, centers; as, a multicentral cell. Multicental development (Biol.), growth, or development, from several centers. According as the insubordination to a single center is more or less pronounced, the resultant organism will be more or less irregular in form and may even discontinuous. 

MULTICIPITAL:  Having many heads or many stems from one crown or root. Gray. 

MULTICOLOR:  Having many, or several, colors. 

MULTICOSTATE:  Having numerous ribs, or costæ, as the leaf of a plant, or as certain shells and corals. 

MULTICUSPID:  Multicuspidate; -- said of teeth. 

MULTICUSPIDATE:  Having many cusps or points. 

MULTIDENTATE:  Having many teeth, or toothlike processes. 

MULTIDIGITATE:  Having many fingers, or fingerlike processes. 

MULTIFACED:  Having many faces. 

MULTIFARIOUS:  Having parts, as leaves, arranged in many vertical rows. 

MULTIFARIOUSLY:  With great multiplicity and diversity; with variety of modes and relations. 

MULTIFARIOUSNESS:  The fault of improperly uniting in one bill distinct and independent matters, and thereby confounding them. Burrill. 

MULTIFEROUS:  Bearing or producing much or many. [R.] 

MULTIFID:  Having many segments; cleft into several parts by linear sinuses; as, a multifid leaf or corolla. 

MULTIFLOROUS:  Having many flowers. 

MULTIFLUE:  Having many flues; as, a multiflue boiler. See Boiler. 

MULTIFOIL:  An ornamental foliation consisting of more than five divisions or foils. [R.] See Foil. 

MULTIFOIL:  Having more than five divisions or foils. 

MULTIFOLD:  Many times doubled; manifold; numerous. 

MULTIFORM:  Having many forms, shapes, or appearances. A plastic and multiform unit. Hare. 

MULTIFORMITY:  The quality of being multiform; diversity of forms; variety of appearances in the same thing. Purchas. 

MULTIFORMOUS:  Multiform. [Obs.] 

MULTIGENEROUS:  Having many kinds. 

MULTIGRANULATE:  Having, or consisting of, many grains. 

MULTIGRAPH:  A combined rotary type-setting and printing machine for office use. The type is transferred semi-automatically by means of keys from a type-supply drum to a printing drum. The printing may be done by means of an inked ribbon to print "typewritten" letters, or directly from inked type or a stereotype plate, as in a printing press. 

MULTIJUGATE:  Having many pairs of leaflets. 

MULTIJUGOUS:  Same as Multijugate. 

MULTILATERAL:  Having many sides; many-sided. 

MULTILINEAL:  Having many lines. Steevens. 

MULTILOBAR:  Consisting of, or having, many lobes. 

MULTILOCULAR:  Having many or several cells or compartments; as, a multilocular shell or capsule. 

MULTILOQUENCE:  Quality of being multiloquent; use of many words; talkativeness.  MULTILOQUENT; MULTILOQUOUS Mul*til"o*quent, Mul*til"o*quous, a. Etym: [L. multiloquus; multus much, many + loqui to speak.]  Speaking much; very talkative; loquacious. 

MULTILOQUY:  Excess of words or talk. [R.] 

MULTINODATE:  Having many knots or nodes. 

MULTINODOUS:  Same as Multinodate. 

MULTINOMIAL:  Same as Polynomial.  MULTINOMINAL; MULTINOMINOUS Mul`ti*nom"i*nal, Mul`ti*nom"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. multinominis; multus many + nomen nominis name.]  Having many names or terms. 

MULTINUCLEAR:  Containing many nuclei; as, multinuclear cells.  MULTINUCLEATE; MULTINUCLEATED Mul`ti*nu"cle*ate, Mul`ti*nu"cle*a`ted, a. (Biol.)  Multinuclear. 

MULTIPAROUS:  Producing many, or more than one, at a birth. 

MULTIPARTITE:  Divided into many parts; having several parts. 

MULTIPED:  An insect having many feet, as a myriapod. 

MULTIPED:  Having many feet. 

MULTIPHASE:  Having many phases; specif. (Elec.),  pertaining to, or designating, a generator producing, or any system conveying or utilizing, two or more waves of pressure, or electromotive force, not in phase with each other; polyphase. 

MULTIPLANE:  Having several or many planes or plane surfaces; as, a multiplane kite. 

MULTIPLANE:  An aëroplane with three or more superposed main planes. 

MULTIPLE:  Containing more than once, or more than one; consisting of more than one; manifold; repeated many times; having several, or many, parts. Law of multiple proportion (Chem.), the generalization that when the same elements unite in more than one proportion, forming two or more different compounds, the higher proportions of the elements in such compounds are simple multiplies of the lowest proportion, or the proportions are connected by some simple common factor; thus, iron and oxygen unite in the proportions FeO, Fe2O3, Fe3O4, in which compounds, considering the oxygen, 3 and 4 are simple multiplies of 1. Called also the Law of Dalton, from its discoverer.  -- Multiple algebra, a branch of advanced mathematics that treats of operations upon units compounded of two or more unlike units.  -- Multiple conjugation (Biol.), a coalescence of many cells (as where an indefinite number of amoeboid cells flow together into a single mass) from which conjugation proper and even fertilization may have been evolved.  -- Multiple fruits. (Bot.) See Collective fruit, under Collective.  -- Multiple star (Astron.), several stars in close proximity, which appear to form a single system. 

MULTIPLE:  A quantity containing another quantity a number of times without a remainder.  Note: A common multiple of two or more numbers contains each of them a number of times exactly; thus, 24 is a common multiple of 3 and 4. The least common multiple is the least number that will do this; thus, 12 is the least common multiple of 3 and 4. 

MULTIPLEX:  Manifold; multiple. 

MULTIPLIABLE:  Capable of being multiplied.  -- Mul"ti*pli`a*ble*ness, n. 

MULTIPLICABLE:  Capable of being multiplied; multipliable. 

MULTIPLICAND:  The number which is to be multiplied by another number called the multiplier. See Note under Multiplication. 

MULTIPLICATE:  Consisting of many, or of more than one; multiple; multifold. Multiplicate flower (Bot.), a flower that is double, or has an unusual number of petals in consequence of the abnormal multiplication of the parts of the floral whorls. 

MULTIPLICATION:  The process of repeating, or adding to itself, any given number or quantity a certain number of times; commonly, the process of ascertaining by a briefer computation the result of such repeated additions; also, the rule by which the operation is performed; -- the reverse of division.  Note: The word multiplication is sometimes used in mathematics, particularly in multiple algebra, to denote any distributive operation expressed by one symbol upon any quantity or any thing expressed by another symbol. Corresponding extensions of meaning are given to the words multiply, multiplier, multiplicand, and product. Thus, since f(x + y) = fx + fy (see under Distributive), where f(x + y), fx, and fy indicate the results of any distributive operation represented by the symbol f upon x + y, x, and y, severally, then because of many very useful analogies f(x + y) is called the product of f and x + y, and the operation indicated by f is called multiplication. Cf. Facient, n., 2.  3. (Bot.)  An increase above the normal number of parts, especially of petals; augmentation.  4. The art of increasing gold or silver by magic, -- attributed formerly to the alchemists. [Obs.] Chaucer. Multiplication table, a table giving the product of a set of numbers multiplied in some regular way; commonly, a table giving the products of the first ten or twelve numbers multiplied successively by 1, 2, 3, etc., up to 10 or 12. 

MULTIPLICATIVE:  Tending to multiply; having the power to multiply, or incease numbers. 

MULTIPLICATIVELY:  So as to multiply. 

MULTIPLICATOR:  The number by which another number is multiplied; a multiplier. 

MULTIPLICIOUS:  Manifold. [Obs.] 

MULTIPLICITY:  The quality of being multiple, manifold, or various; a state of being many; a multitude; as, a multiplicity of thoughts or objects. "A multiplicity of goods." South. 

MULTIPLIER:  The number by which another number is multiplied. See the Note under Multiplication.  3. (Physics)  An instrument for multiplying or increasing by repetition or accumulation the intensity of a force or action, as heat or electricity. It is particularly used to render such a force or action appreciable or measurable when feeble. See Thermomultiplier. 

MULTIPLY:  To add (any given number or quantity) to itself a certain number of times; to find the product of by multiplication; thus 7 multiplied by 8 produces the number 56; to multiply two numbers. See the Note under Multiplication.  3. To increase (the amount of gold or silver) by the arts of alchemy. [Obs.] Multiplying gear (Mach.), gear for increasing speed.  -- Multiplying lens. (Opt.) See under Lens. 

MULTIPOLAR:  Having many poles; -- applied especially to those ganglionic nerve cells which have several radiating processes. 

MULTIPOTENT:  Having manifold power, or power to do many things. "Jove multipotent." Shak. 

MULTIPRESENCE:  The state or power of being multipresent. The multipresence of Christ's body. Bp. Hall. 

MULTIPRESENT:  Being, or having the power to be, present in two or more places at once. 

MULTIRADIATE:  Having many rays. 

MULTIRAMIFIED:  Divided into many branches. 

MULTIRAMOSE:  Having many branches. 

MULTISCIOUS:  Having much or varied knowledge. [Obs.] 

MULTISECT:  Divided into many similar segments; -- said of an insect or myriapod. 

MULTISEPTATE:  Divided into many chambers by partitions, as the pith of the pokeweed. 

MULTISERIAL:  Arranged in many rows, or series, as the scales of a pine cone, or the leaves of the houseleek. 

MULTISILIQUOUS:  Having many pods or seed vessels. 

MULTISONOUS:  Having many sounds, or sounding much. 

MULTISPIRAL:  Having numerous spiral coils round a center or nucleus; -- said of the opercula of certain shells. 

MULTISTRIATE:  Having many streaks. 

MULTISULCATE:  Having many furrows. 

MULTISYLLABLE:  A word of many syllables; a polysyllable. [R.] -- Mul`ti*syl*lab"ic, a. 

MULTITITULAR:  Having many titles. 

MULTITUBULAR:  Having many tubes; as, a multitubular boiler. 

MULTITUDINARY:  Multitudinous. 

MULTITUDINOUS:  Wandering much. [Obs.] 

MULTIVALENCE:  Quality, state, or degree, of a multivalent element, atom, or radical. 

MULTIVALVE:  Any mollusk which has a shell composed of more than two pieces.  MULTIVALVE; MULTIVALVULAR Mul"ti*valve, Mul`ti*val"vu*lar, a. Etym: [Multi- + valve, valvular: cf. F. multivalve.]  1. Having many valves.  2. (Zoöl.)  Many-valved; having more than two valves; -- said of certain shells, as the chitons. 

MULTIVERSANT:  Turning into many shapes; assuming many forms; protean. 

MULTIVIOUS:  Having many ways or roads; by many ways. [Obs.] 

MULTIVOCAL:  Signifying many different things; of manifold meaning; equivocal. "An ambiguous multivocal word." Coleridge.  -- n.  A multivocal word. [R.] Fitzed. Hall. 

MULTOCULAR:  Having many eyes, or more than two. 

MULTUM:  An extract of quassia licorice, fraudulently used by brewers in order to economize malt and hops. Craig. Hard multum, a preparation made from Cocculus Indicus, etc., used to impart an intoxicating quality to beer. 

MULTUNGULATE:  Having many hoofs. 

MULTURE:  The toll for grinding grain. Erskine.  2. A grist or grinding; the grain ground. 

MUM:  Silent; not speaking. Thackeray. The citizens are mum, and speak not a word. Shak. 

MUM:  Be silent! Hush! Mum, then, and no more. Shak. 

MUM:  Silence. [R.] Hudibras. 

MUM:  A sort of strong beer, originally made in Brunswick, Germany. Addison. The clamorous crowd is hushed with mugs of mum. Pope. 

MUMBLENEWS:  A talebearer. [Obs.] 

MUMBLER:  One who mumbles. 

MUMBLING:  Low; indistinct; inarticulate.  -- Mum"bling*ly, adv.  MUMBO JUMBO Mum"bo Jum`bo.  An object of superstitious homage and fear. Carlyle. The miserable Mumbo Jumbo they paraded. Dickens.  MUM-CHANCE Mum"-chance`, n.  1. A game of hazard played with cards in silence. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Decker.  2. A silent, stupid person. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  MUM-CHANCE Mum"-chance`, a.  Silent and idle. [Colloq.] Boys can't sit mum-chance always. J. H. Ewing. 

MUMM:  To sport or make diversion in a mask or disguise; to mask. With mumming and with masking all around. Spenser. 

MUMMER:  One who mumms, or makes diversion in disguise; a masker; a buffon. Jugglers and dancers, antics, mummers. Milton. 

MUMMICHOG:  Any one of several species of small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus, and of allied genera; the killifishes; -- called also minnow. [Written also mummychog, mummachog.] 

MUMMIFICATION:  The act of making a mummy. 

MUMMIFIED:  Converted into a mummy or a mummylike substance; having the appearance of a mummy; withered. 

MUMMIFORM:  Having some resemblance to a mummy; -- in zoölogy, said of the pupæ of certain insects. 

MUMMIFY:  To embalm and dry as a mummy; to make into, or like, a mummy. Hall (1646). 

MUMMY:  A sort of wax used in grafting, etc.  6. One whose affections and energies are withered. Mummy brown, a brown color, nearly intermediate in tint between burnt umber and raw umber. A pigment of this color is prepared from bitumen, etc., obtained from Egyptian tombs.  -- Mummy wheat (Bot.), wheat found in the ancient mummy cases of Egypt. No botanist now believes that genuine mummy wheat has been made to germinate in modern times.  -- To beat to a mummy, to beat to a senseless mass; to beat soundly. 

MUMMY:  To embalm; to mummify. 

MUMMYCHOG:  See Mummichog. 

MUMPER:  A beggar; a begging impostor. Deceived by the tales of a Lincoln's Inn mumper. Macaulay. 

MUMPISH:  Sullen, sulky.  -- Mump"ish*ly, adv.  -- Mump"ish*ness, n. 

MUMPS:  Sullenness; silent displeasure; the sulks. Skinner.  2. Etym: [Prob. so called from the patient's appearance.] (Med.)  A specific infectious febrile disorder characterized by a nonsuppurative inflammation of the parotid glands; epidemic or infectious parotitis. 

MUN:  The mouth. [Obs.] One a penny, two a penny, hot cross buns, Butter them and sugar them and put them in your muns. Old Rhyme. Halliwell. 

MUNCH:  To chew with a grinding, crunching sound, as a beast chews provender; to chew deliberately or in large mouthfuls. [Formerly written also maunch and mounch.] I could munch your good dry oats. Shak. 

MUNCHAUSENISM:  An extravagant fiction embodying an account of some marvelous exploit or adventure. 

MUNCHER:  One who munches. 

MUND:  See Mun. 

MUNDANE:  Of or pertaining to the world; worldly; earthly; terrestrial; as, the mundane sphere.  -- Mun"dane*ly, adv. The defilement of mundane passions. I. Taylor. 

MUNDANITY:  Worldliness. [Obs.] 

MUNDATION:  The act of cleansing. [Obs.] 

MUNDATORY:  Cleansing; having power to cleanse. [Obs.] 

MUNDIC:  Iron pyrites, or arsenical pyrites; -- so called by the Cornish miners. 

MUNDIFICANT:  Serving to cleanse and heal.  -- n.  A mundificant ointment or plaster. 

MUNDIFICATION:  The act or operation of cleansing. 

MUNDIFICATIVE:  Cleansing.  -- n.  A detergent medicine or preparation. 

MUNDIFY:  To cleanse. [Obs.] 

MUNDIL:  A turban ornamented with an imitation of gold or silver embroidery. 

MUNDIVAGANT:  Wandering over the world. [R.] 

MUNDUNGUS:  A stinking tobacco. 

MUNERARY:  Having the nature of a gift. [Obs.] 

MUNERATE:  To remunerate. 

MUNERATION:  Remuneration. [Obs.] 

MUNG:  Green gram, a kind of pulse (Phaseolus Mungo), grown for food in British India. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

MUNGA:  See Bonnet monkey, under Bonnet. 

MUNGCORN:  Same as Mangcorn. 

MUNGO:  A fibrous material obtained by deviling rags or the remnants of woolen goods.  Note: Mungo properly signifies the disintegrated rags of woolen cloth, as distinguished from those of worsted, which form shoddy. The distinction is very commonly disregarded. Beck (Draper's Dict. ).  MUNGOOSE; MUNGOOS Mun"goose, Mun"goos, n. (Zoöl.)  See Mongoose. 

MUNGREL:  See Mongrel. 

MUNICIPALISM:  Municipal condition. 

MUNICIPALITY:  A municipal district; a borough, city, or incorporated town or village. 

MUNICIPALIZE:  To bring under municipal oversight or control; as, a municipalized industry.  London people are now determined to centralize and to municipalize such services. The Century. 

MUNICIPALLY:  In a municipal relation or condition. 

MUNIFIC:  Munificent; liberal. [Obs. or R.] 

MUNIFICATE:  To enrich. [Obs.] 

MUNIFICENCE:  Means of defense; fortification. [Obs.] Spenser. 

MUNIFICENCE:  The quality or state of being munificent; a giving or bestowing with extraordinary liberality; generous bounty; lavish generosity. The virtues of liberality and munificence. Addison.  Syn.  -- Benevolence; beneficence; liberality; generosity; bounty; bounteousness. See Benevolence. 

MUNIFICENT:  Very liberal in giving or bestowing; lavish; as, a munificent benefactor.  -- Mu*nif"i*cent*ly, adv.  Syn.  -- Bounteous; bountiful; liberal; generous. 

MUNIFY:  To prepare for defense; to fortify. [Obs.] 

MUNIMENT:  A record; the evidences or writings whereby a man is enabled to defend the title to his estate; title deeds and papers. Blount. Muniment house or room, that room in a cathedral, castle, or other public building, which is used for keeping the records, charters, seals, deeds, and the like. Gwilt. 

MUNITE:  To fortify; to strengthen. [Obs.] 

MUNITY:  Freedom; security; immunity. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

MUNJEET:  See Indian madder, under Madder. 

MUNJISTIN:  An orangered coloring substance resembling alizarin, found in the root of an East Indian species of madder (Rubia munjista). 

MUNNION:  See Mullion.  MUNTIN; MUNTING Mun"tin, Mun"ting, n. Etym: [CF. Montant.] (Arch.)  Same as Mullion; -- especially used in joiner's work. 

MUNTJAC:  Any one of several species of small Asiatic deer of the genus Cervulus, esp. C. muntjac, which occurs both in India and on the East Indian Islands. [Written also muntjak.]  MUNTZ METAL Muntz" met`al.  See under Metal. 

MURAENA:  A genus of large eels of the family Mirænidæ. They differ from the common eel in lacking pectoral fins and in having the dorsal and anal fins continuous. The murry (Muræna Helenæ) of Southern Europe was the muræna of the Romans. It is highly valued as a food fish.  MURAENOID; MURENOID Mu*ræ"noid, Mu*re"noid, a. Etym: [NL. Muræna, the generic name + - oid.] (Zoöl.)  Like or pertaining to the genus Muræna, or family Murænidæ. 

MURAGE:  A tax or toll paid for building or repairing the walls of a fortified town. 

MURDER:  The offense of killing a human being with malice prepense or aforethought, express or implied; intentional and unlawful homicide. "Mordre will out." Chaucer. The killing of their children had, in the account of God, the guilt of murder, as the offering them to idols had the guilt of idolatry. Locke. Slaughter grows murder when it goes too far. Dryden.  Note: Murder in the second degree, in most jurisdictions, is a malicious homicide committed without a specific intention to take life. Wharton. 

MURDERESS:  A woman who commits murder. 

MURDERMENT:  Murder. [Obs.] Farfax. 

MURDEROUS:  Of or pertaining to murder; characterized by, or causing, murder or bloodshed; having the purpose or quality of murder; bloody; sanguinary; as, the murderous king; murderous rapine; murderous intent; a murderous assault. "Murderous coward." Shak.  -- Mur"der*ous*ly, adv.  Syn.  -- Bloody; sanguinary; bloodguilty; bloodthirsty; fell; savage; cruel. 

MURDRESS:  A battlement in ancient fortifications with interstices for firing through. 

MURE:  A wall. [Obs.] Shak. 

MURE:  To inclose in walls; to wall; to immure; to shut up. Spenser. The five kings are mured in a cave. John. x. (Heading). 

MURENGER:  One who had charge of the wall of a town, or its repairs. 

MUREX:  A genus of marine gastropods, having rough, and frequently spinose, shells, which are often highly colored inside; the rock shells. They abound in tropical seas. 

MUREXAN:  A complex nitrogenous substance obtained from murexide, alloxantin, and other ureids, as a white, or yellowish, crystalline which turns red on exposure to the air; -- called also uramil, dialuramide, and formerly purpuric acid. 

MUREXIDE:  A crystalline nitrogenous substance having a splendid dichroism, being green by reflected light and garnet-red by transmitted light. It was formerly used in dyeing calico, and was obtained in a large quantities from guano. Formerly called also ammonium purpurate. 

MUREXOIN:  A complex nitrogenous compound obtained as a scarlet crystalline substance, and regarded as related to murexide. 

MURIATE:  A salt of muriatic hydrochloric acid; a chloride; as, muriate of ammonia.  Note: This term, as also the word muriatic, was formerly applied to the chlorides before their true composition was understood, and while they were erroneously supposed to be compounds of an acid with an oxide. Muriate and muriatic are still occasionally used as commercial terms, but are obsolete in scientific language. 

MURIATED:  Combined or impregnated with muriatic or hydrochloric acid.  3. (Photog.)  Prepared with chloride of silver through the agency of common salt. 

MURIATIC:  Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sea salt, or from chlorine, one of the constituents of sea salt; hydrochloric. Muriatic acid, hydrochloric acid, HCl; -- formerly called also marine acid, and spirit of salt. See hydrochloric, and the Note under Muriate. 

MURIATIFEROUS:  Producing muriatic substances or salt. [Obs.]  MURICATE; MURICATED Mu"ri*cate, Mu"ri*ca`ted, a. Etym: [L. muricatus, fr. murex a pointed rock or stone.]  Formed with sharp points; full of sharp points or of pickles; covered, or roughened, as a surface, with sharp points or excrescences. 

MURICOID:  Like, or pertaining to, the genus Murex, or family Muricidæ. 

MURICULATE:  Minutely muricate. 

MURIDE:  Bromine; -- formerly so called from its being obtained from sea water. 

MURIFORM:  Resembling courses of bricks or stones in squareness and regular arrangement; as, a muriform variety of cellular tissue. 

MURINE:  Pertaining to a family of rodents (Muridæ), of which the mouse is the type. 

MURINE:  One of a tribe of rodents, of which the mouse is the type. 

MURINGER:  See Murenger. Jacob. 

MURK:  Dark; murky. He can not see through the mantle murk. J. R. Drake. 

MURK:  Darkness; mirk. [Archaic] Shak. 

MURK:  The refuse of fruit, after the juice has been expressed; marc. 

MURKILY:  Darkly; gloomily. 

MURKINESS:  The state of being murky. 

MURKY:  Dark; obscure; gloomy. "The murkiest den." Shak. A murky deep lowering o'er our heads. Addison. 

MURLINS:  A seaweed. See Baddrelocks. 

MURMUR:  To utter or give forth in low or indistinct words or sounds; as, to murmur tales. Shak. The people murmured such things concerning him. John vii. 32. 

MURMURATION:  The act of murmuring; a murmur. [Obs.] Skelton. 

MURMURER:  One who murmurs. 

MURMURING:  Uttering murmurs; making low sounds; complaining.  -- Mur"mur*ing*ly, adv. 

MURMUROUS:  Attended with murmurs; exciting murmurs or complaint; murmuring. [Archaic or Poetic] The lime, a summer home of murmurous wings. Tennyson. 

MURNIVAL:  In the game of gleek, four cards of the same value, as four aces or four kings; hence, four of anything. [Obs.] [Written also mournival.] 

MURPHY:  A potato. [Humorous] Thackeray. 

MURR:  A catarrh. [Obs.] Gascoigne. 

MURRAIN:  An infectious and fatal disease among cattle. Bacon. A murrain on you, may you be afflicted with a pestilent disease. Shak. 

MURRAIN:  Having, or afflicted with, murrain. 

MURRAYIN:  A glucoside found in the flowers of a plant (Murraya exotica) of South Asia, and extracted as a white amorphous slightly bitter substance. 

MURRE:  Any one of several species of sea birds of the genus Uria, or Catarractes; a guillemot.  Note: The murres are allied to the auks, and are abundant on the northern coasts of Europe and America. They often breed in large communities on the projecting ledges of precipituous cliffs, laying one or two large eggs on the bare rocks. 

MURRELET:  One of several species of sea birds of the genera Synthliboramphus and Brachyramphus, inhabiting the North Pacific. They are closely related to the murres. 

MURREY:  A dark red color.  -- a.  Of a dark red color. Bacon. 

MURRHINE:  Made of the stone or material called by the Romans murrha; -- applied to certain costly vases of great beauty and delicacy used by the luxurious in Rome as wine cups; as, murrhine vases, cups, vessels. Murrhine glass, glassware made in imitation of murrhine vases and cups. 

MURRION:  Infected with or killed by murrain. [Obs.] Shak. 

MURRION:  A morion. See Morion. 

MURRY:  See Muræna. 

MURTH:  Plenty; abundance. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

MURTHER:  Murder, n. & v. [Obs. or Prov.] "The treason of the murthering." Chaucer. 

MURTHERER:  A murderer. [Obs. or Prov.] 

MURZA:  One of the hereditary nobility among the Tatars, esp. one of the second class.  Note: This word must not be confounded with the Persian Mirza, though perhaps of the same origin. 

MUS:  A genus of small rodents, including the common mouse and rat. 

MUSA:  A genus of perennial, herbaceous, endogenous plants of great size, including the banana (Musa sapientum), the plantain (M. paradisiaca of Linnæus, but probably not a distinct species), the Abyssinian (M. Ensete), the Philippine Island (M. textilis, which yields Manila hemp), and about eighteen other species. See Illust. of Banana and Plantain. 

MUSACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the genus Musa. 

MUSAL:  Of or pertaining to the Muses, or to Poetry. [R.] 

MUSANG:  A small animal of Java (Paradoxirus fasciatus), allied to the civets. It swallows, but does not digest, large quantities of ripe coffee berries, thus serving to disseminate the coffee plant; hence it is called also coffee rat. 

MUSAR:  An itinerant player on the musette, an instrument formerly common in Europe. 

MUSARD:  A dreamer; an absent-minded person. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

MUSCA:  A genus of dipterous insects, including the common house fly, and numerous allied species.  Note: Formerly, a large part of the Diptera were included under the genus Musca.  2. (Astron.)  A small constellation situated between the Southern Cross and the Pole. Muscæ volitantes (. Etym: [L., flying flies.] (Med.) Specks or filaments apparently seen moving or glinding about in the field of vision. Their appearance is often a symptom of disease of the eye, or of disorder of the nervous system. 

MUSCADEL:  See Muscatel, n. Quaffed off the muscadel. Shak. 

MUSCADINE:  A name given to several very different kinds of grapes, but in America used chiefly for the scuppernong, or southern fox grape, which is said to be the parent stock of the Catawba. See Grapevine.  2. (Bot.)  A fragrant and delicious pear.  3. (Zoöl.)  See Muscardin. Northern muscadine (Bot.), a derivative of the northern fox grape, and scarcely an improvement upon it.  -- Royal muscadine (Bot.), a European grape of great value. Its berries are large, round, and of a pale amber color. Called also golden chasselas. 

MUSCALES:  An old name for mosses in the widest sense, including the true mosses and also hepaticæ and sphagna. 

MUSCALLONGE:  See Muskellunge. 

MUSCARDIN:  The common European dormouse; -- so named from its odor. [Written also muscadine.] 

MUSCARDINE:  A disease which is very destructive to silkworms, and which sometimes extends to other insects. It is attended by the development of a fungus (provisionally called Botrytis bassiana). Also, the fungus itself. 

MUSCARIFORM:  Having the form of a brush. 

MUSCARIN:  A solid crystalline substance, C5H13NO2, found in the toadstool (Agaricus muscarius), and in putrid fish. It is a typical ptomaine, and a violent poison. 

MUSCAT:  A name given to several varieties of Old World grapes, differing in color, size, etc., but all having a somewhat musky flavor. The muscat of Alexandria is a large oval grape of a pale amber color. [Written also muskat.] 

MUSCATEL:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, or derived from, a muscat grapes or similar grapes; a muscatel grapes; muscatel wine, etc. 

MUSCATEL:  Finest raisins, dried on the vine; "sun raisins." [Variously written moscatel, muscadel, etc.] 

MUSCHELKALK:  A kind of shell limestone, whose strata form the middle one of the three divisions of the Triassic formation in Germany. See Chart, under Geology. 

MUSCI:  An order or subclass of cryptogamous plants; the mosses. See Moss, and Cryptogamia. 

MUSCICAPINE:  Of or pertaining to the Muscicapidæ, a family of birds that includes the true flycatchers. 

MUSCID:  Any fly of the genus Musca, or family Muscidæ. 

MUSCIFORM:  Having the form or structure of flies of the genus Musca, or family Muscidæ. 

MUSCIFORM:  Having the appearance or form of a moss. 

MUSCLE:  See Mussel. Muscle curve (Physiol.), contraction curve of a muscle; a myogram; the curve inscribed, upon a prepared surface, by means of a myograph when acted upon by a contracting muscle. The character of the curve represents the extent of the contraction. 

MUSCLED:  Furnished with muscles; having muscles; as, things well muscled.  MUSCLE READING Mus"cle read`ing.  The art of making discriminations between objects of choice, of discovering the whereabouts of hidden objects, etc., by inference from the involuntary movements of one whose hand the reader holds or with whom he is otherwise in muscular contact. 

MUSCLING:  Exhibition or representation of the muscles. [R.] A good piece, the painters say, must have good muscling, as well as coloring and drapery. Shaftesbury. 

MUSCOGEES:  See Muskogees. 

MUSCOID:  Mosslike; resembling moss. 

MUSCOID:  A term formerly applied to any mosslike flowerless plant, with a distinct stem, and often with leaves, but without any vascular system. 

MUSCOLOGY:  Bryology. 

MUSCOSITY:  Mossiness. Jonhson. 

MUSCOVADO:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, unrefined or raw sugar, obtained from the juice of the sugar cane by evaporating and draining off the molasses. Muscovado sugar contains impurities which render it dark colored and moist. 

MUSCOVADO:  Unrefined or raw sugar. 

MUSCOVITE:  Common potash mica. See Mica.  MUSCOVY DUCK Mus"co*vy duck`. Etym: [A corruption of musk duck.] (Zoöl.)  A duck (Cairina moschata), larger than the common duck, often raised in poultry yards. Called also musk duck. It is native of tropical America, from Mexico to Southern Brazil.  MUSCOVY GLASS Mus"co*vy glass`. Etym: [From Muscovy, the old name of Russia: cf. F. verre de Moscovie.]  Mica; muscovite. See Mica. 

MUSCULARITY:  The state or quality of being muscular. Grew. 

MUSCULARIZE:  To make muscular. Lowell. 

MUSCULARLY:  In a muscular manner. 

MUSCULATION:  The muscular system of an animal, or of any of its parts. 

MUSCULATURE:  Musculation. 

MUSCULE:  A long movable shed used by besiegers in ancient times in attacking the walls of a fortified town. 

MUSCULIN:  See Syntonin. 

MUSCULOCUTANEOUS:  Pertaining both to muscles and skin; as, the musculocutaneous nerve. 

MUSCULOPHRENIC:  Pertaining to the muscles and the diaphragm; as, the musculophrenic artery. 

MUSCULOSITY:  The quality or state of being musculous; muscularity. [Obs.] 

MUSCULOSPIRAL:  Of or pertaining to the muscles, and taking a spiral course; -- applied esp. to a large nerve of the arm. 

MUSCULOUS:  Muscular. [Obs.] Jonhson. 

MUSE:  A gap or hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, through which a wild animal is accustomed to pass; a muset. Find a hare without a muse. Old Prov. 

MUSE:  One of the nine goddesses who presided over song and the different kinds of poetry, and also the arts and sciences; -- often used in the plural. Granville commands; your aid, O Muses, bring: What Muse for Granville can refuse to sing Pope.  Note: The names of the Muses were Calliope, Clio, Erato, Euterpe, Melpomene, Polymnia or Polyhymnia, Terpsichore, Thalia, and Urania.  2. A particular power and practice of poetry. Shak.  3. A poet; a bard. [R.] Milton. 

MUSEFUL:  Meditative; thoughtfully silent. "Museful mopings." Dryden.  -- Muse"ful*ly, adv. 

MUSELESS:  Unregardful of the Muses; disregarding the power of poetry; unpoetical. Milton. 

MUSER:  One who muses. 

MUSET:  A small hole or gap through which a wild animal passes; a muse. Shak. 

MUSEUM:  A repository or a collection of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities, or of works of art. Museum beetle, Museum pest. (Zoöl.) See Anthrenus. 

MUSH:  Meal (esp. Indian meal) boiled in water; hasty pudding; supawn. [U.S.] 

MUSH:  To notch, cut, or indent, as cloth, with a stamp. 

MUSHROOM:  Having a cylindrical body with a convex head of larger diameter; having a head like that of a mushroom. 

MUSHY:  Soft like mush; figuratively, good-naturedly weak and effusive; weakly sentimental. She 's not mushy, but her heart is tender. G. Eliot. 

MUSIC:  A more or less musical sound made by many of the lower animals. See Stridulation. Magic music, a game in which a person is guided in finding a hidden article, or in doing a specific art required, by music which is made more loud or rapid as he approaches success, and slower as he recedes. Tennyson.  -- Music box. See Musical box, under Musical.  -- Music hall, a place for public musical entertainments.  -- Music loft, a gallery for musicians, as in a dancing room or a church.  -- Music of the spheres, the harmony supposed to be produced by the accordant movement of the celestial spheres.  -- Music paper, paper ruled with the musical staff, for the use of composers and copyists.  -- Music pen, a pen for ruling at one time the five lines of the musical staff.  -- Music shell (Zoöl.), a handsomely colored marine gastropod shell (Voluta musica) found in the East Indies; -- so called because the color markings often resemble printed music. Sometimes applied to other shells similarly marked.  -- To face the music, to meet any disagreeable necessity without flinching. [Colloq. or Slang] 

MUSICAL:  Of or pertaining to music; having the qualities of music; or the power of producing music; devoted to music; melodious; harmonious; as, musical proportion; a musical voice; musical instruments; a musical sentence; musical persons. Musical, or Music, box, a box or case containing apparatus moved by clockwork so as to play certain tunes automatically.  -- Musical fish (Zoöl.), any fish which utters sounds under water, as the drumfish, grunt, gizzard shad, etc.  -- Musical glasses, glass goblets or bowls so tuned and arranged that when struck, or rubbed, they produce musical notes. CF. Harmonica, 1. 

MUSICALE:  A social musical party. [Colloq.] 

MUSICALLY:  In a musical manner. 

MUSICALNESS:  The quality of being musical.  MUSIC DRAMA Mu"sic dra`ma.  An opera in which the text and action are not interrupted by set arias, duets, etc., the music being determined throughout by dramatic appropriateness; musical drama of this character, in general. It involves the use of a kind of melodious declamation, the development of leitmotif, great orchestral elaboration, and a fusion of poetry, music, action, and scene into an organic whole. The term is applied esp. to the later works of Wagner: "Tristan und Isolde," "Die Meistersinger," "Rheingold," "Walküre," "Siegfried," "Götterdämmerung," and "Parsifal."  MUSIC HALL Music hall.  A place for public musical entertainments; specif. (Eng.), esp. a public hall for vaudeville performances, in which smoking and drinking are usually allowed in the auditorium. 

MUSICIAN:  One skilled in the art or science of music; esp., a skilled singer, or performer on a musical instrument. 

MUSICOMANIA:  A kind of monomania in which the passion for music becomes so strong as to derange the intellectual faculties. Dunglison. 

MUSIMON:  See Mouflon. 

MUSINGLY:  In a musing manner. 

MUSIT:  See Muset. 

MUSK:  The musk deer. See Musk deer (below).  3. The perfume emitted by musk, or any perfume somewhat similar.  4. (Bot.) (a) The musk plant (Mimulus moschatus). (b) A plant of the genus Erodium (E. moschatum); -- called also musky heron's-bill. (c) A plant of the genus Muscari; grape hyacinth. Musk beaver (Zoöl.), muskrat (1).  -- Musk beetle (Zoöl.), a European longicorn beetle (Aromia moschata), having an agreeable odor resembling that of attar of roses.  -- Musk cat. See Bondar.  -- Musk cattle (Zoöl.), musk oxen. See Musk ox (below).  -- Musk deer (Zoöl.), a small hornless deer (Moschus moschiferus), which inhabits the elevated parts of Central Asia. The upper canine teeth of the male are developed into sharp tusks, curved downward. The male has scent bags on the belly, from which the musk of commerce is derived. The deer is yellow or red-brown above, whitish below. The pygmy musk deer are chevrotains, as the kanchil and napu.  -- Musk duck. (Zoöl.) (a) The Muscovy duck. (b) An Australian duck (Biziura lobata).  -- Musk lorikeet (Zoöl.), the Pacific lorikeet (Glossopsitta australis) of Australia.  -- Musk mallow (Bot.), a name of two malvaceous plants: (a) A species of mallow (Malva moschata), the foliage of which has a faint musky smell. (b) An Asiatic shrub. See Abelmosk.  -- Musk orchis (Bot.), a European plant of the Orchis family (Herminium Minorchis); -- so called from its peculiar scent.  -- Musk ox (Zoöl.), an Arctic hollow-horned ruminant (Ovibos moschatus), now existing only in America, but found fossil in Europe and Asia. It is covered with a thick coat of fine yellowish wool, and with long dark hair, which is abundant and shaggy on the neck and shoulders. The full-grown male weighs over four hundred pounds.  -- Musk parakeet. (Zoöl.) Same as Musk lorikeet (above).  -- Musk pear (Bot.), a fragrant kind of pear much resembling the Seckel pear.  -- Musk plant (Bot.), the Mimulus moschatus, a plant found in Western North America, often cultivated, and having a strong musky odor.  -- Musk root (Bot.), the name of several roots with a strong odor, as that of the nard (Nardostachys Jatamansi) and of a species of Angelica.  -- Musk rose (Bot.), a species of rose (Rosa moschata), having peculiarly fragrant white blossoms.  -- Musk seed (Bot.), the seed of a plant of the Mallow family (Hibiscus moschatus), used in perfumery and in flavoring. See Abelmosk.  -- Musk sheep (Zoöl.), the musk ox.  -- Musk shrew (Zoöl.), a shrew (Sorex murinus), found in India. It has a powerful odor of musk. Called also sondeli, and mondjourou.  -- Musk thistle (Bot.), a species of thistle (Carduus nutans), having fine large flowers, and leaves smelling strongly of musk.  -- Musk tortoise, Musk turtle (Zoöl.), a small American fresh-water tortoise (Armochelys, or Ozotheca, odorata), which has a distinct odor of musk; -- called also stinkpot. 

MUSK:  To perfume with musk. 

MUSKADEL:  See Muscadel. 

MUSKAT:  See Muscat. 

MUSKELLUNGE:  A large American pike (Esox nobilitor) found in the Great Lakes, and other Northern lakes, and in the St. Lawrence River. It is valued as a food fish. [Written also maskallonge, maskinonge, muskallonge, muskellonge, and muskelunjeh.] 

MUSKET:  The male of the sparrow hawk.  2. A species of firearm formerly carried by the infantry of an army. It was originally fired by means of a match, or matchlock, for which several mechanical appliances (including the flintlock, and finally the percussion lock) were successively substituted. This arm has been generally superseded by the rifle. 

MUSKETEER:  A soldier armed with a musket. 

MUSKETO:  See Mosquito. 

MUSKINESS:  The quality or state of being musky; the scent of musk. 

MUSKMELON:  The fruit of a cucubritaceous plant (Cicumis Melo), having a peculiar aromatic flavor, and cultivated in many varieties, the principal sorts being the cantaloupe, of oval form and yellowish flesh, and the smaller nutmeg melon with greenish flesh. See Illust. of Melon. 

MUSKOGEES:  A powerful tribe of North American Indians that formerly occupied the region of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama. They constituted a large part of the Creek confederacy. [Written also Muscogees.] 

MUSKRAT:  A North American aquatic fur-bearing rodent (Fiber zibethicus). It resembles a rat in color and having a long scaly tail, but the tail is compressed, the bind feet are webbed, and the ears are concealed in the fur. It has scent glands which secrete a substance having a strong odor of musk. Called also musquash, musk beaver, and ondatra.  2. (Zoöl.)  The musk shrew.  3. (Zoöl.)  The desman. 

MUSKY:  Having an odor of musk, or somewhat the like. Milton. 

MUSLIM:  See Moslem. 

MUSLIN:  A thin cotton, white, dyed, or printed. The name is also applied to coarser and heavier cotton goods; as, shirting and sheeting muslins. Muslin cambric. See Cambric.  -- Muslin delaine, a light woolen fabric for women's dresses. See Delaine. [Written also mousseline de laine.] 

MUSLINET:  A sort of coarse or light cotton cloth. 

MUSMON:  See Mouflon. 

MUSOMANIA:  See Musicomania. 

MUSQUASH:  See Muskrat. Musquash root (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant (Cicuta maculata), having a poisonous root. See Water hemlock. 

MUSQUAW:  The American black bear. See Bear. 

MUSQUET:  See Musket. 

MUSQUITO:  See Mosquito.  MUSROLE; MUSROL Mus"role, Mus"rol, n. Etym: [F. muserolle, fr. muserau a muzzle, OF. musel. See Muzzle.]  The nose band of a horse's bridle. 

MUSS:  A scramble, as when small objects are thrown down, to be taken by those who can seize them; a confused struggle. Shak. 

MUSS:  A state of confusion or disorder; -- prob. variant of mess, but influenced by muss, a scramble. [Colloq. U.S.] 

MUSS:  To disarrange, as clothing; to rumple. [Colloq. U.S.] 

MUSS:  A term of endearment. [Obs.] See Mouse. B. Jonson. 

MUSSEL:  Any one of many species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Mytilus, and related genera, of the family Mytidæ. The common mussel (Mytilus edulis; see Illust. under Byssus), and the larger, or horse, mussel (Modiola modiolus), inhabiting the shores both of Europe and America, are edible. The former is extensively used as food in Europe.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of Unio, and related fresh-water genera; -- called also river mussel. See Naiad, and Unio. Mussel digger (Zoöl.), the grayback whale. See Gray whale, under Gray. 

MUSSITATION:  A speaking in a low tone; mumbling. [Obs.] 

MUSSITE:  A variety of pyroxene, from the Mussa Alp in Piedmont; diopside. 

MUSSULMAN:  A Mohammedan; a Moslem. 

MUSSULMANIC:  Of, pertaining to, or like, the Mussulmans, or their customs: Mohammedan. 

MUSSULMANISH:  Mohammedan. 

MUSSULMANISM:  Mohammedanism. 

MUSSULMANLY:  In the manner of Moslems. 

MUSSY:  Disarranged; rumpled. [Colloq. U.S.] 

MUST:  Mustiness. 

MUST:  To make musty; to become musty. 

MUSTAC:  A small tufted monkey. 

MUSTACHE:  A West African monkey (Cercopithecus cephus). It has yellow whiskers, and a triangular blue mark on the nose.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any conspicuous stripe of color on the side of the head, beneath the eye of a bird. 

MUSTACHO:  A mustache. Longfellow. 

MUSTACHOED:  Having mustachios. 

MUSTAHFIZ:  See Army organization, above. 

MUSTAIBA:  A close-grained, neavy wood of a brownish color, brought from Brazil, and used in turning, for making the handles of tools, and the like. [Written also mostahiba.] MaElrath. 

MUSTANG:  The half-wild horse of the plains in Mexico, California, etc. It is small, hardy, and easily sustained. Mustard grape (Bot.), a species of grape (Vitis candicans), native in Arkansas and Texas. The berries are small, light-colored, with an acid skin and a sweet pulp. 

MUSTARD:  The name of several cruciferous plants of the genus Brassica (formerly Sinapis), as white mustard (B. alba), black mustard (B. Nigra), wild mustard or charlock (B. Sinapistrum).  Note: There are also many herbs of the same family which are called mustard, and have more or less of the flavor of the true mustard; as, bowyer's mustard (Lepidium ruderale); hedge mustard (Sisymbrium officinale); Mithridate mustard (Thlaspi arvense); tower mustard (Arabis perfoliata); treacle mustard (Erysimum cheiranthoides).  2. A powder or a paste made from the seeds of black or white mustard, used as a condiment and a rubefacient. Taken internally it is stimulant and diuretic, and in large doses is emetic. Mustard oil (Chem.), a substance obtained from mustard, as a transparent, volatile and intensely pungent oil. The name is also extended to a number of analogous compounds produced either naturally or artificially. 

MUSTEE:  See Mestee. 

MUSTELINE:  Like or pertaining to the family Mustelidæ, or the weasels and martens. 

MUSTER:  To be gathered together for parade, inspection, exercise, or the like; to come together as parts of a force or body; as, his supporters mustered in force. "The mustering squadron." Byron. 

MUSTILY:  In a musty state. 

MUSTINESS:  The quality or state of being musty. 

MUTABILITY:  The quality of being mutable, or subject to change or alteration, either in form, state, or essential character; susceptibility of change; changeableness; inconstancy; variation. Plato confessed that the heavens and the frame of the world are corporeal, and therefore subject to mutability. Stillingfleet. 

MUTABLENESS:  The quality of being mutable. 

MUTABLY:  Changeably. 

MUTACISM:  See Mytacism. 

MUTAGE:  A process for checking the fermentation of the must of grapes. 

MUTANDUM:  A thing which is to be changed; something which must be altered; -- used chiefly in the plural. 

MUTATION:  Change; alteration, either in form or qualities. The vicissitude or mutations in the superior globe are no fit matter for this present argument. Bacon. 

MUTCH:  The close linen or muslin cap of an old woman. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

MUTCHKIN:  A liquid measure equal to four gills, or an imperial pint. [Scot.] 

MUTE:  To cast off; to molt. Have I muted all my feathers Beau. & Fl. 

MUTE:  To eject the contents of the bowels; -- said of birds. B. Jonson. 

MUTE:  The dung of birds. Hudibras. 

MUTE:  A letter which represents no sound; a silent letter; also, a close articulation; an element of speech formed by a position of the mouth organs which stops the passage of the breath; as, p, b, d, k, t.  3. (Mus.)  A little utensil made of brass, ivory, or other material, so formed that it can be fixed in an erect position on the bridge of a violin, or similar instrument, in order to deaden or soften the tone.  MUTE-HILL Mute"-hill`, n.  See Moot-hill. [Scot.] 

MUTELY:  Without uttering words or sounds; in a mute manner; silently. 

MUTENESS:  The quality or state of being mute; speechlessness. 

MUTESSARIF:  In Turkey, an administrative authority of any of certain sanjaks. They are appointed directly by the Sultan. 

MUTESSARIFAT:  In Turkey, a sanjak whose head is a mutessarif.  MUTIC; MUTICOUS Mu"tic, Mu"ti*cous, a. Etym: [L. muticus, for mutilus. See Mutilate.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Without a point or pointed process; blunt. 

MUTILATE:  Having finlike appendages or flukes instead of legs, as a cetacean. 

MUTILATE:  A cetacean, or a sirenian. 

MUTILATION:  The act of mutilating, or the state of being mutilated; deprivation of a limb or of an essential part. 

MUTILATOR:  One who mutilates. 

MUTILOUS:  Mutilated; defective; imperfect. [Obs.] 

MUTINE:  A mutineer. [Obs.] 

MUTINE:  To mutiny. [Obs.] 

MUTINEER:  One guilty of mutiny. 

MUTING:  Dung of birds. 

MUTINOUS:  Disposed to mutiny; in a state of mutiny; characterized by mutiny; seditious; insubordinate. The city was becoming mutinous. Macaulay. -- Mu"ti*nous*ly, adv.  -- Mu"ti*nous*ness, n. 

MUTISM:  The condition, state, or habit of being mute, or without speech. Max Müller. 

MUTOSCOPE:  A simple form of moving-picture machine in which the series of views, exhibiting the successive phases of a scene, are printed on paper and mounted around the periphery of a wheel. The rotation of the wheel brings them rapidly into sight, one after another, and the blended effect gives a semblance of motion. 

MUTTER:  To utter with imperfect articulations, or with a low voice; as, to mutter threats. Shak. 

MUTTER:  Repressing or obscure utterance. 

MUTTERER:  One who mutters. 

MUTTERINGLY:  With a low voice and indistinct articulation; in a muttering manner. 

MUTTONY:  Like mutton; having a flavor of mutton. 

MUTUALISM:  The doctrine of mutual dependence as the condition of individual and social welfare. F. Harrison. H. Spencer. Mallock. 

MUTUALITY:  Reciprocity of consideration. Wharton. 

MUTUALLY:  In a mutual manner. 

MUTUARY:  One who borrows personal chattels which are to be consumed by him, and which he is to return or repay in kind. Bouvier. 

MUTUATION:  The act of borrowing or exchanging. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

MUTULE:  A projecting block worked under the corona of the Doric corice, in the same situation as the modillion of the Corinthian and Composite orders. See Illust. of Gutta. Oxf. Gloss. 

MUX:  Dirt; filth; muck. [Prov. Eng.] ose. 

MUX:  To mix in an unitidy and offensive way; to make a mess of. [Prov. Eng.; Colloq. U.S.] 

MUXY:  Soft; sticky, and dirty. [Prov. Eng.] See Mucky. 

MUZARAB:  One of a denomination of Christians formerly living under the government of the Moors in Spain, and having a liturgy and ritual of their own. [Written also Mozarab, Mostarab.] Brande & C. 

MUZARABIC:  Of or pertaining to Muzarabs; as, the Muzarabic liturgy. [Written also Mozarabic.] 

MUZZINESS:  The state or quality of being muzzy. 

MUZZLE:  To bring the mouth or muzzle near. The bear muzzles and smels to him. L'Estrange.  MUZZLE-LOADER Muz"zle-load`er, n.  A firearm which receives its charge through the muzzle, as distinguished from one which is loaded at the breech.  MUZZLE-LOADING Muz"zle-load`ing, a.  Receiving its charge through the muzzle; as, a muzzle-loading rifle. 

MUZZY:  Absent-minded; dazed; muddled; stupid. The whole company stared at me with a whimsical, muzzy look, like men whose senses were a little obfuscated by beer rather then wine. W. Irving. 

MY:  Of or belonging to me; -- used always attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate; as, the book is mine. See Mine. 

MYA:  A genus of bivalve mollusks, including the common long, or soft-shelled, clam. 

MYALGIA:  Pain in the muscles; muscular rheumatism or neuralgia.  MYALL WOOD My*all" wood`. (Bot.)  A durable, fragrant, and dark-colored Australian wood, used by the natives for spears. It is obtained from the small tree Acacia homolophylla. 

MYARIA:  A division of bivalve mollusks of which the common clam (Mya) is the type. 

MYCELIUM:  The white threads or filamentous growth from which a mushroom or fungus is developed; the so-called mushroom spawn.  -- My*ce"li*al, a. 

MYCELOID:  Resembling mycelium. 

MYCETES:  A genus of South American monkeys, including the howlers. See Howler, 2, and Illust. 

MYCETOID:  Resembling a fungus. 

MYCETOZOA:  The Myxomycetes; -- so called by those who regard them as a class of animals. -- My*ce`to*zo"an (#), a. 

MYCODERMA:  One of the forms in which bacteria group themselves; a more or less thick layer of motionless but living bacteria, formed by the bacteria uniting on the surface of the fluid in which they are developed. This production differs from the zoöloea stage of bacteria by not having the intermediary mucous substance.  2. A genus of microörganisms of which the acetic ferment (Mycoderma aceti), which converts alcoholic fluids into vinegar, is a representative. Cf. Mother.  MYCOLOGIC; MYCOLOGICAL My`co*log"ic, My`co*log"ic*al, a.  Of or relating to mycology, or the fungi. 

MYCOLOGIST:  One who is versed in, or who studies, mycology. 

MYCOLOGY:  That branch of botanical science which relates to the musgrooms and other fungi. 

MYCOMELIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid of the alloxan group, obtained as a honey-yellow powder. Its solutions have a gelatinous consistency. 

MYCOPROTEIN:  The protoplasmic matter of which bacteria are composed. 

MYCOSE:  A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose and obtained from certain lichens and fungi. Called also trehalose. [Written also mykose.] 

MYCOTHRIX:  The chain of micrococci formed by the division of the micrococci in multiplication. 

MYDALEINE:  A toxic alkaloid (ptomaine) obtained from putrid flesh and from herring brines. As a poison it is said to execute profuse diarrhoea, vomiting, and intestinal inflammation. Brieger. 

MYDATOXIN:  A poisonous amido acid, C6H13NO2, separated by Brieger from decaying horseflesh. In physiological action, it is similar to curare. 

MYDAUS:  The teledu. 

MYDRIASIS:  A long-continued or excessive dilatation of the pupil of the eye. 

MYDRIATIC:  Causing dilatation of the pupil.  -- n.  A mydriatic medicine or agent, as belladonna. 

MYELENCEPHALA:  Same as Vertebrata. 

MYELENCEPHALIC:  Of or pertaining to the myelencephalon; cerebro-spinal. 

MYELENCEPHALOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Myelencephala. 

MYELITIS:  Inflammation of the spinal marrow or its membranes. 

MYELOCOELE:  The central canal of the spinal cord. 

MYELOGENIC:  Derived from, or pertaining to, the bone marrow. 

MYELOID:  Resembling marrow in appearance or consistency; as, a myeloid tumor. 

MYELOIDIN:  A substance, present in the protoplasm of the retinal epithelium cells, and resembling, if not identical with, the substance (myelin) forming the medullary sheaths of nerve fibers. 

MYELON:  The spinal cord. (Sometimes abbrev. to myel.) 

MYELONAL:  Of or pertaining to the myelon; as, the myelonal, or spinal, nerves. 

MYELONEURA:  The Vertebrata. 

MYELOPLAX:  One of the huge multinucleated cells found in the marrow of bone and occasionally in other parts; a giant cell. See Osteoclast. 

MYGALE:  A genus of very large hairy spiders having four lungs and only four spinnerets. They do not spin webs, but usually construct tubes in the earth, which are often furnished with a trapdoor. The South American bird spider (Mygale avicularia), and the crab spider, or matoutou (M. cancerides) are among the largest species. Some of the species are erroneously called tarantulas, as the Texas tarantula (M. Hentzii). 

MYKISS:  A salmon (Salmo mykiss, syn. S. purpuratus) marked with black spots and a red throat, found in most of the rivers from Alaska to the Colorado River, and in Siberia; -- called also black-spotted trout, cutthroat trout, and redthroat trout. 

MYLODON:  An extinct genus of large slothlike American edentates, allied to Megatherium. 

MYLOHYOID:  Pertaining to, or in the region of, the lower jaw and the hyoid apparatus; as, the mylohyoid nerve. 

MYNA:  Any one of numerous species of Asiatic starlings of the genera Acridotheres, Sturnopastor, Sturnia, Gracula, and allied genera. In habits they resemble the European starlings, and like them are often caged and taught to talk. See Hill myna, under Hill, and Mino bird. [Spelt also mynah.] 

MYNCHEN:  A nun. [Obs.] 

MYNCHERY:  A nunnery; -- a term still applied to the ruins of certain nunneries in England. 

MYNHEER:  The Dutch equivalent of Mr. or Sir; hence, a Dutchman.  MYO- My"o-.  A combining form of Gr. muscle; as, myograph, myochrome. 

MYOCARDITIS:  Inflammation of the myocardium. 

MYOCARDIUM:  The main substance of the muscular wall of the heart inclosed between the epicardium and endocardium. 

MYOCHROME:  A colored albuminous substance in the serum from red-colored muscles. It is identical with hemoglobin. 

MYOCOMMA:  A myotome. 

MYODYNAMICS:  The department of physiology which deals with the principles of muscular contraction; the exercise of muscular force or contraction. 

MYODYNAMIOMETER:  A myodynamometer. 

MYODYNAMOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the muscular strength of man or of other animals; a dynamometer. Dunglison. 

MYOEPITHELIAL:  Derived from epithelial cells and destined to become a part of the muscular system; -- applied to structural elements in certain embryonic forms.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having the characteristics of both muscle and epithelium; as, the myoepithelial cells of the hydra. 

MYOGALID:  One of the Myogalodæ, a family of Insectivora, including the desman, and allied species. 

MYOGRAM:  See Muscle curve, under Muscle. 

MYOGRAPH:  An instrument for determining and recording the different phases, as the intensity, velocity, etc., of a muscular contraction.  MYOGRAPHIC; MYOGRAPHICAL My`o*graph"ic, My`o*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to myography. 

MYOGRAPHY:  The description of muscles, including the study of muscular contraction by the aid of registering apparatus, as by some form of myograph; myology. 

MYOHAEMATIN:  A red-colored respiratory pigment found associated with hemoglobin in the muscle tissue of a large number of animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate. 

MYOID:  Composed of, or resembling, muscular fiber. 

MYOLEMMA:  Sarcolemma. 

MYOLIN:  The essential material of muscle fibers.  MYOLOGIC; MYOLOGICAL My`o*log"ic, My`o*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to myology. 

MYOLOGIST:  One skilled in myology. 

MYOLOGY:  That part of anatomy which treats of muscles. 

MYOMA:  A tumor consisting of muscular tissue. 

MYOMANCY:  Divination by the movements of mice. 

MYOMORPH:  One of the Myomorpha. 

MYOMORPHA:  An extensive group of rodents which includes the rats, mice, jerboas, and many allied forms. 

MYOPATHIA:  Any affection of the muscles or muscular system. 

MYOPATHIC:  Of or pertaining to myopathia. 

MYOPATHY:  Same as Myopathia. 

MYOPE:  A person having myopy; a myops. 

MYOPHAN:  A contractile striated layer found in the bodies and stems of certain Infusoria. 

MYOPIA:  Nearsightedness; shortsightedness; a condition of the eye in which the rays from distant object are brought to a focus before they reach the retina, and hence form an indistinct image; while the rays from very near objects are normally converged so as to produce a distinct image. It is corrected by the use of a concave lens. 

MYOPIC:  Pertaining to, or affected with, or characterized by, myopia; nearsighted. Myopic astigmatism, a condition in which the eye is affected with myopia in one meridian only. 

MYOPS:  See Myope. 

MYOPSIS:  The appearance of muscæ volitantes. See Muscæ volitantes, under Musca. 

MYOPY:  Myopia. 

MYOSIN:  An albuminous body present in dead muscle, being formed in the process of coagulation which takes place in rigor mortis; the clot formed in the coagulation of muscle plasma. See Muscle plasma, under Plasma.  Note: Myosin belongs to the group of globulins. It is insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute solution of salt, and is especially characterized by being completely precipitated by saturation of its solutions with salt. 

MYOSIS:  Long-continued contraction of the pupil of the eye. 

MYOSITIC:  Myotic. 

MYOSITIS:  Inflammation of the muscles. 

MYOSOTIS:  A genus of plants. See Mouse-ear. 

MYOTIC:  Producing myosis, or contraction of the pupil of the eye, as opium, calabar bean, etc.  -- n.  A myotic agent. 

MYOTOMIC:  Of or pertaining to a myotome or myotomes. 

MYOTOMY:  The dissection, or that part of anatomy which treats of the dissection, of muscles. 

MYRCIA:  A large genus of tropical American trees and shrubs, nearly related to the true myrtles (Myrtus), from which they differ in having very few seeds in each berry.  MYRIA- Myr"i*a-. Etym: [Gr. Myriad.]  A prefix, esp. in the metric system, indicating ten thousand, ten thousand times; as, myriameter. 

MYRIACANTHOUS:  Having numerous spines, as certain fishes. 

MYRIAD:  Consisting of a very great, but indefinite, number; as, myriad stars.  MYRIAGRAM; MYRIAGRAMME Myr"i*a*gram, Myr"i*a*gramme, n. Etym: [F. myriagramme. See Myria-, and 3d Gram.]  A metric weight, consisting of ten thousand grams or ten kilograms. It is equal to 22.046 lbs. avoirdupois.  MYRIALITER; MYRIALITRE Myr"i*a*li`ter, Myr"i*a*li`tre, n. Etym: [F. myrialitre. See Myria-, and Liter.]  A metric measure of capacity, containing ten thousand liters. It is equal to 2641.7 wine gallons.  MYRIAMETER; MYRIAMETRE Myr"i*a*me`ter, Myr"i*a*me`tre, n. Etym: [F. myriamètre. See Myria-, and Meter.]  A metric measure of length, containing ten thousand meters. It is equal to 6.2137 miles. 

MYRIAPOD:  One of the Myriapoda. 

MYRIAPODA:  A class, or subclass, of arthropods, related to the hexapod insects, from which they differ in having the body made up of numerous similar segments, nearly all of which bear true jointed legs. They have one pair of antennæ, three pairs of mouth organs, and numerous trachaæ, similar to those of true insects. The larvæ, when first hatched, often have but three pairs of legs. See Centiped, Galleyworm, Milliped.  Note: The existing Myriapoda are divided into three orders: Chilopoda, Chilognatha or Diplopoda, and Pauropoda (see these words in the Vocabulary). Large fossil species (very different from any living forms) are found in the Carboniferous formation. 

MYRIARCH:  A captain or commander of ten thousand men. 

MYRIARE:  A measure of surface in the metric system containing ten thousand ares, or one million square meters. It is equal to about 247.1 acres. 

MYRICA:  A widely dispersed genus of shrubs and trees, usually with aromatic foliage. It includes the bayberry or wax myrtle, the sweet gale, and the North American sweet fern, so called. 

MYRICIN:  A silky, crystalline, waxy substance, forming the less soluble part of beeswax, and regarded as a palmitate of a higher alcohol of the paraffin series; -- called also myricyl alcohol. 

MYRICYL:  A hypothetical radical regarded as the essential residue of myricin; -- called also melissyl. 

MYRIOLOGICAL:  Of or relating to a myriologue. 

MYRIOLOGIST:  One who composes or sings a myriologue. 

MYRIOLOGUE:  An extemporaneous funeral song, composed and sung by a woman on the death of a friend. [Modern Greece] 

MYRIOPHYLLOUS:  Having an indefinitely great or countless number of leaves. 

MYRIOPODA:  See Myriapoda. 

MYRIORAMA:  A picture made up of several smaller pictures, drawn upon separate pieces in such a manner as to admit of combination in many different ways, thus producing a great variety of scenes or landscapes. 

MYRIOSCOPE:  A form of kaleidoscope. 

MYRISTATE:  A salt of myristic acid. 

MYRISTIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, the nutmeg (Myristica). Specifically, designating an acid found in nutmeg oil and otoba fat, and extracted as a white crystalline waxy substance. 

MYRISTIN:  The myristate of glycerin, -- found as a vegetable fat in nutmeg butter, etc. 

MYRISTONE:  The ketone of myristic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance. 

MYRMECOPHYTE:  A plant that affords shelter and food to certain species of ants which live in symbiotic relations with it. Special adaptations for this purpose exist; thus, Acacia spadicigera has large hollows thorns, and species of Cecropia have stem cavities. -- Myr`me*co*phyt"ic (#), a. 

MYRMICINE:  Of or pertaining to Myrmica, a genus of ants including the small house ant (M. molesta), and many others. 

MYRMIDONIAN:  Consisting of, or like, myrmidons. Pope. 

MYRMOTHERINE:  Feeding upon ants; -- said of certain birds.  MYROBALAN; MYROBOLAN My*rob"a*lan, My*rob"o*lan, n. Etym: [L. myrobalanum the fruit of a palm tree from which a balsam was made, Gr. myrobolan.]  A dried astringent fruit much resembling a prune. It contains tannin, and was formerly used in medicine, but is now chiefly used in tanning and dyeing. Myrobolans are produced by various species of Terminalia of the East Indies, and of Spondias of South America. 

MYRONIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, mustard; -- used specifically to designate a glucoside called myronic acid, found in mustard seed. 

MYROPOLIST:  One who sells unguents or perfumery. [Obs.] Jonhson. 

MYROSIN:  A ferment, resembling diastase, found in mustard seeds. 

MYROXYLON:  A genus of leguminous trees of tropical America, the different species of which yield balsamic products, among which are balsam of Peru, and balsam of Tolu. The species were formerly referred to Myrospermum. 

MYRRH:  A gum resin, usually of a yellowish brown or amber color, of an aromatic odor, and a bitter, slightly pungent taste. It is valued for its odor and for its medicinal properties. It exuds from the bark of a shrub of Abyssinia and Arabia, the Balsamodendron Myrrha. The myrrh of the Bible is supposed to have been partly the gum above named, and partly the exudation of species of Cistus, or rockrose. False myrrh. See the Note under Bdellium. 

MYRRHIC:  Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, myrrh. 

MYRRHINE:  Murrhine. 

MYRTACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large and important natural order of trees and shrubs (Myrtaceæ), of which the myrtle is the type. It includes the genera Eucalyptus, Pimenta, Lechythis, and about seventy more. 

MYRTIFORM:  Resembling myrtle or myrtle berries; having the form of a myrtle leaf. 

MYRTLE:  A species of the genus Myrtus, especially Myrtus communis. The common myrtle has a shrubby, upright stem, eight or ten feet high. Its branches form a close, full head, thickly covered with ovate or lanceolate evergreen leaves. It has solitary axillary white or rosy flowers, followed by black several-seeded berries. The ancients considered it sacred to Venus. The flowers, leaves, and berries are used variously in perfumery and as a condiment, and the beautifully mottled wood is used in turning.  Note: The name is also popularly but wrongly applied in America to two creeping plants, the blue-flowered periwinkle and the yellow- flowered moneywort. In the West Indies several myrtaceous shrubs are called myrtle. Bog myrtle, the sweet gale.  -- Crape myrtle. See under Crape.  -- Myrtle warbler (Zoöl.), a North American wood warbler (Dendroica coronata); -- called also myrtle bird, yellow-rumped warbler, and yellow-crowned warbler.  -- Myrtle wax. (Bot.) See Bayberry tallow, under Bayberry.  -- Sand myrtle, a low, branching evergreen shrub (Leiophyllum buxifolium), growing in New Jersey and southward.  -- Wax myrtle (Myrica cerifera). See Bayberry. 

MYSELF:  I or me in person; -- used for emphasis, my own self or person; as I myself will do it; I have done it myself; -- used also instead of me, as the object of the first person of a reflexive verb, without emphasis; as, I will defend myself. 

MYSELVEN:  Myself. [Obs.] 

MYSIS:  A genus of small schizopod shrimps found both in fresh and salt water; the opossum shrimps. One species inhabits the Great Lakes of North America, and is largely eaten by the whitefish. The marine species form part of the food of right whales. 

MYSTACAL:  Of or pertaining to the upper lip, or mustache.  MYSTAGOGIC; MYSTAGOGICAL Mys`ta*gog"ic, Mys`ta*gog"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to interpretation of mysteries or to mystagogue; of the nature of mystagogy. 

MYSTAGOGY:  The doctrines, principles, or practice of a mystagogue; interpretation of mysteries. 

MYSTERIAL:  Mysterious. [Obs.] 

MYSTERIARCH:  One presiding over mysteries. [Obs.] 

MYSTERIOUS:  Of or pertaining to mystery; containing a mystery; difficult or impossible to understand; obscure not revealed or explained; enigmatical; incomprehensible. God at last To Satan, first in sin, his doom applied, Thought in mysterious terms. Milton.  Syn.  -- Obscure; secret; occult; dark; mystic; cabalistic; enigmatical; unintelligible; incomprehensible. 

MYSTERIOUSLY:  In a mysterious manner. 

MYSTERIZE:  To make mysterious; to make a mystery of. 

MYSTERY:  The consecrated elements in the eucharist.  4. Anything artfully made difficult; an enigma. 

MYSTIC:  One given to mysticism; one who holds mystical views, interpretations, etc.; especially, in ecclesiastical history, one who professed mysticism. See Mysticism. 

MYSTICETE:  Any right whale, or whalebone whale. See Cetacea. 

MYSTICISM:  The doctrine of the Mystics, who professed a pure, sublime, and wholly disinterested devotion, and maintained that they had direct intercourse with the divine Spirit, and aquired a knowledge of God and of spiritual things unattainable by the natural intellect, and such as can not be analyzed or explained.  3. (Philos.)  The doctrine that the ultimate elements or principles of knowledge or belief are gained by an act or process akin to feeling or faith. 

MYSTIFICATION:  The act of mystifying, or the state of being mystied; also, something designed to, or that does, mystify. The reply of Pope seems very much as though he had been playing off a mystification on his Grace. De Quincey. 

MYSTIFICATOR:  One who mystifies. 

MYTACISM:  Too frequent use of the letter m, or of the sound represented by it. 

MYTHE:  See Myth. Grote.  MYTHIC; MYTHICAL Myth"ic, Myth"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mythicus, Gr. Myth.]  Of or relating to myths; described in a myth; of the nature of a myth; fabulous; imaginary; fanciful.  -- Myth"ic*al*ly, adv. The mythic turf where danced the nymphs. Mrs. Browning. Hengist and Horsa, Vortigern and Rowena, Arthur and Mordred, are mythical persons, whose very existence may be questioned. Macaulay. 

MYTHOGRAPHER:  A composer of fables. 

MYTHOLOGER:  A mythologist. 

MYTHOLOGIAN:  A mythologist.  MYTHOLOGIC; MYTHOLOGICAL Myth`o*log"ic, Myth`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. mythologicus: cf. F. mytholigique.]  Of or pertaining to mythology or to myths; mythical; fabulous.  -- Myth`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

MYTHOLOGIST:  One versed in, or who writes on, mythology or myths. 

MYTHOLOGIZER:  One who, or that which, mythologizes. Imagination has always been, and still is, in a narrower sense, the great mythologizer. Lowell. 

MYTHOLOGUE:  A fabulous narrative; a myth. [R.] May we not ... consider his history of the fall as an excellent mythologue, to account for the origin of human evil Geddes. 

MYTHOPLASM:  A narration of mere fable. 

MYTHOPOEIC:  Making or producing myths; giving rise to mythical narratives. The mythopoeic fertility of the Greeks. Grote. 

MYTHOPOETIC:  Making or producing myths or mythical tales. 

MYTILOID:  Like, or pertaining to, the genus Mytilus, or family Mytilidæ. 

MYTILOTOXINE:  A poisonous base (leucomaine) found in the common mussel. It either causes paralysis of the muscles, or gives rise to convulsions, including death by an accumulation of carbonic acid in the blood. 

MYTILUS:  A genus of marine bivalve shells, including the common mussel. See Illust. under Byssus. 

MYXA:  The distal end of the mandibles of a bird. 

MYXINE:  A genus of marsipobranchs, including the hagfish. See Hag, 4. 

MYXINOID:  Like, or pertaining to, the genus Myxine.  -- n.  A hagfish. 

MYXOCYSTODEA:  A division of Infusoria including the Noctiluca. See Noctiluca. 

MYXOEDEMA:  A disease producing a peculiar cretinoid appearance of the face, slow speech, and dullness of intellect, and due to failure of the functions of the thyroid gland. -- Myx`o*dem"a*tous (#), a., Myx`o*dem"ic (#), a. 

MYXOMA:  A tumor made up of a gelatinous tissue resembling that found in the umbilical cord. 

MYXOMYCETES:  A class of peculiar organisms, the slime molds, formerly regarded as animals (Mycetozoa), but now generally thought to be plants and often separated as a distinct phylum (Myxophyta). They are found on damp earth and decaying vegetable matter, and consist of naked masses of protoplasm, often of considerable size, which creep very slowly  over the surface and ingest solid food. -- Myx`o*my*ce"tous (#), a. 

MYXOPHYTA:  A phylum of the vegetable kingdom consisting of the class Myxomycetes. By some botanists it is not separated from the Thallophyta. 

MYXOPOD:  A rhizopod or moneran. Also used adjectively; as, a myxopod state. 

MYZONTES:  The Marsipobranchiata. 

MYZOSTOMATA:  An order of curious parasitic worms found on crinoids. The body is short and disklike, with four pairs of suckers and five pairs of hook-bearing parapodia on the under side. 

N:  N, the fourteenth letter of English alphabet, is a vocal consonent, and, in allusion to its mode of formation, is called the dentinasal or linguanasal consonent. Its commoner sound is that heard in ran, done; but when immediately followed in the same word by the sound of g hard or k (as in single, sink, conquer), it usually represents the same sound as the digraph ng in sing, bring, etc. This is a simple but related sound, and is called the gutturo-nasal consonent. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 243-246. The letter N came into English through the Latin and Greek from the Phoenician, which probably derived it from the Egyptian as the ultimate origin. It is etymologically most closely related to M. See M. 

N:  A measure of space equal to half an M (or em); an en. 

NA:  No, not. See No. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NAB:  The cock of a gunlock. Knight.  3. (Locksmithing)  The keeper, or box into which the lock is shot. Knight. 

NAB:  To catch or seize suddenly or unexpectedly. [Colloq.] Smollett. 

NABIT:  Pulverized sugar candy. Crabb. 

NABK:  The edible berries of the Zizyphys Lotus, a tree of Northern Africa, and Southwestern Europe. [Written also nubk.] See Lotus (b), and Sadr. 

NACKER:  See Nacre. Johnson. 

NACRE:  A pearly substance which lines the interior of many shells, and is most perfect in the mother-of-pearl. [Written also nacker and naker.] See Pearl, and Mother-of-pearl. 

NACREOUS:  Consisting of, or resembling, nacre; pearly.  NAD; NADDE Nad, Nad"de. Etym: [Contr. fr. ne hadde.]  Had not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NADDER:  An adder. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NAENIA:  See Nenia. 

NAEVE:  A nævus. [Obs.] Dryden. 

NAEVOID:  Resembling a nævus or nævi; as, nævoid elephantiasis. Dunglison. 

NAEVOSE:  Spotted; frecled. 

NAEVUS:  A spot or mark on the skin of children when born; a birthmark; -- usually applied to vascular tumors, i. e., those consisting mainly of blood vessels, as dilated arteries, veins, or capillaries. 

NAG:  To tease in a petty way; to scold habitually; to annoy; to fret pertinaciously. [Colloq.] "She never nagged." J. Ingelow. 

NAGANA:  The disease caused by the tsetse fly. [South Africa] 

NAGGING:  Fault-finding; teasing; persistently annoying; as, a nagging toothache. [Colloq.] 

NAGGY:  Irritable; touchy. [Colloq.] 

NAGOR:  A West African gazelle (Gazella redunca). 

NAGYAGITE:  A mineral of blackish lead-gray color and metallic luster, generally of a foliated massive structure; foliated tellurium. It is a telluride of lead and gold. 

NAIAD:  A water nymph; one of the lower female divinities, fabled to preside over some body of fresh water, as a lake, river, brook, or fountain.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any species of a tribe (Naiades) of freshwater bivalves, including Unio, Anodonta, and numerous allied genera; a river mussel.  3. (Zoöl)  One of a group of butterflies. See Nymph.  4. (Bot.)  Any plant of the order Naiadaceæ, such as eelgrass, pondweed, etc. 

NAIANT:  (Her.) See Natant. Crabb. 

NAID:  Any one of numerous species of small, fresh-water, chætopod annelids of the tribe Naidina. They belong to the Oligochæta. 

NAIK:  A chief; a leader; a Sepoy corporal. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

NAIL:  the horny scale of plate of epidermis at the end of the fingers and toes of man and many apes. His nayles like a briddes claws were. Chaucer.  Note: The nails are strictly homologous with hoofs and claws. When compressed, curved, and pointed, they are called talons or claws, and the animal bearing them is said to be unguiculate; when they incase the extremities of the digits they are called hoofs, and the animal is ungulate.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The basal thickened portion of the anterior wings of certain hemiptera. (b) The terminal horny plate on the beak of ducks, and other allied birds.  3. A slender, pointed piece of metal, usually with a head, used for fastening pieces of wood or other material together, by being driven into or through them.  Note: The different sorts of nails are named either from the use to which they are applied, from their shape, from their size, or from some other characteristic, as shingle, floor, ship-carpenters', and horseshoe nails, roseheads, diamonds, fourpenny, tenpenny (see Penny), chiselpointed, cut, wrought, or wire nails, etc.  4. A measure of length, being two inches and a quarter, or the sixteenth of a yard. Nail ball (Ordnance), a round projectile with an iron bolt protruding to prevent it from turning in the gun.  -- Nail plate, iron in plates from which cut nails are made.  -- On the nail, in hand; on the spot; immediately; without delay or time of credit; as, to pay money on the nail. "You shall have ten thousand pounds on the nail." Beaconsfield.  -- To hit the nail on the head, to hit most effectively; to do or say a thing in the right way. 

NAILBRUSH:  A brush for cleaning the nails. 

NAILERESS:  A women who makes nailes. 

NAILERY:  A manufactory where nails are made.  NAIL-HEADED Nail"-head`ed, a.  Having a head like that of a nail; formed so as to resemble the head of a nail. Nail-headed characters, arrowheaded or cuneiform characters. See under Arrowheaded.  -- Nail-headed molding (Arch.), an ornament consisting of a series of low four-sided pyramids resembling the heads of large nails; -- called also nail-head molding, or nail-head. It is the same as the simplest form of dogtooth. See Dogtooth. 

NAILLESS:  Without nails; having no nails. 

NAINSOOK:  A thick sort of jaconet muslin, plain or striped, formerly made in India. 

NAIS:  See Naiad. 

NAISSANT:  Same as Jessant. 

NAIVE:  Having native or unaffected simplicity; ingenuous; artless; frank; as, naïve manners; a naïve person; naïve and unsophisticated remarks. 

NAIVELY:  In a naïve manner. 

NAIVETE:  Native simplicity; unaffected plainness or ingenuousness; artlessness. A story which pleases me by its naïveté -- that is, by its unconscious ingenuousness. De Quincey. 

NAIVETY:  , n. Naïveté. Carlyle. 

NAKE:  ,v.t. To make naked. [Obs.] Chaucer. Come, be ready, nake your swords. Old Play. 

NAKED:  Without pubescence; as, a naked leaf or stem; bare, or not covered by the customary parts, as a flower without a perianth, a stem without leaves, seeds without a pericarp, buds without bud scales.  7. (Mus.)  Not having the full complement of tones; -- said of a chord of only two tones, which requires a third tone to be sounded with them to make the combination pleasing to the ear; as, a naked fourth or fifth. Naked bed, a bed the occupant of which is naked, no night linen being worn in ancient times. Shak.  -- Naked eye, the eye alone, unaided by glasses, or by telescope, microscope, or the like.  -- Naked-eyed medusa. (Zoöl.) See Hydromedusa.  -- Naked flooring (Carp.), the timberwork which supports a floor. Gwilt.  -- Naked mollusk (Zoöl.), a nudibranch.  -- Naked wood (Bot.), a large rhamnaceous tree (Colibrina reclinata) of Southern Florida and the West Indies, having a hard and heavy heartwood, which takes a fine polish. C. S. Sargent.  Syn.  -- Nude; bare; denuded; uncovered; unclothed; exposed; unarmed; plain; defenseless. 

NAKEDLY:  In a naked manner; without covering or disguise; manifestly; simply; barely. 

NAKEDNESS:  The privy parts; the genitals. Ham ... saw the nakedness of his father. Gen. ix. 22. 

NAKER:  Same as Nacre. 

NAKER:  A kind of kettledrum. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NAKOO:  The gavial. [Written also nako.] 

NALE:  Ale; also, an alehouse. [Obs.] Great feasts at the nale. Chaucer. 

NALL:  An awl. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Tusser. 

NAM:  Am not. [Obs.] 

NAM:  of Nim. Chaucer. 

NAMABLE:  Capable of being named. 

NAMATION:  A distraining or levying of a distress; an impounding. Burrill. 

NAMAYCUSH:  A large North American lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush). It is usually spotted with red, and sometimes weighs over forty pounds. Called also Mackinaw trout, lake trout, lake salmon, salmon trout, togue, and tuladi.  NAMBY-PAMBY Nam"by-pam`by, n. Etym: [From Ambrose Phillips, in ridicule of the extreme simplicity of some of his verses.]  Talk or writing which is weakly sentimental or affectedly pretty. Macaulay.  NAMBY-PAMBY Nam"by-pam`by, a.  Affectedly pretty; weakly sentimental; finical; insipid. Thackeray. Namby-pamby madrigals of love. W. Gifford. 

NAME:  To designate (a member) by name, as the Speaker does by way of reprimand.  Syn.  -- To denominate; style; term; call; mention; specify; designate; nominate. 

NAMELESSLY:  In a nameless manner. 

NAMER:  One who names, or calls by name. 

NAMESAKE:  One that has the same name as another; especially, one called after, or named out of regard to, another. 

NAMO:  No more. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NAN:  Anan. [Prov. Eng.] 

NANDINE:  An African carnivore (Nandinia binotata), allied to the civets. It is spotted with black.  NANDOU; NANDU Nan"dou, Nan"du, n. Etym: [Braz. nhandu or yandu.] (Zoöl.)  Any one of three species of South American ostriches of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia. See Rhea. [Written also nandow.] 

NANISM:  The condition of being abnormally small in stature; dwarfishness; -- opposed to gigantism. 

NANKEEN:  Trousers made of nankeen. Ld. Lytton. Nankeen bird (Zoöl.), the Australian night heron (Nycticorax Caledonicus); -- called also quaker. 

NANNY:  A diminutive of Ann or Anne, the proper name. Nanny goat, a female goat. [Colloq.] 

NANNYBERRY:  See Sheepberry. 

NANPIE:  The magpie. 

NAOS:  A term used by modern archæologists instead of cella. See Cella. 

NAP:  A short sleep; a doze; a siesta. Cowper. 

NAP:  The loops which are cut to make the pile, in velvet. Knight. 

NAP:  To raise, or put, a nap on. 

NAPE:  The back part of the neck. Spenser.  NAPE-CREST Nape"-crest`, n. (Zoöl.)  An African bird of the genus Schizorhis, related to the plantain eaters. 

NAPERY:  Table linen; also, linen clothing, or linen in general. [Obs.] Gayton.  NAPHA WATER Na"pha wa`ter. Etym: [Sp. nafa, from Ar. napha odor.]  A perfume distilled from orange flowers. 

NAPHEW:  See Navew. 

NAPHTHA:  The complex mixture of volatile, liquid, inflammable hydrocarbons, occurring naturally, and usually called crude petroleum, mineral oil, or rock oil. Specifically: That portion of the distillate obtained in the refinement of petroleum which is intermediate between the lighter gasoline and the heavier benzine, and has a specific gravity of about 0.7, -- used as a solvent for varnishes, as a carburetant, illuminant, etc.  2. (Chem.)  One of several volatile inflammable liquids obtained by the distillation of certain carbonaceous materials and resembling the naphtha from petroleum; as, Boghead naphtha, from Boghead coal (obtained at Boghead, Scotland); crude naphtha, or light oil, from coal tar; wood naphtha, from wood, etc.  Note: This term was applied by the earlier chemical writers to a number of volatile, strong smelling, inflammable liquids, chiefly belonging to the ethers, as the sulphate, nitrate, or acetate of ethyl. Watts. Naphtha vitrioli Etym: [NL., naphtha of vitriol] (Old Chem.), common ethyl ether; -- formerly called sulphuric ether. See Ether. 

NAPHTHALATE:  A salt of naphthalic acid; a phthalate. [Obs.] 

NAPHTHALENE:  A white crystalline aromatic hydrocarbon, C10H8, analogous to benzene, and obtained by the distillation of certain bituminous materials, such as the heavy oil of coal tar. It is the type and basis of a large number of derivatives among organic compounds. Formerly called also naphthaline. Naphthalene red (Chem.), a dyestuff obtained from certain diazo derivatives of naphthylamine, and called also magdala red.  -- Naphthalene yellow (Chem.), a yellow dyestuff obtained from certain nitro derivatives of naphthol. 

NAPHTHALENIC:  Pertaining to , or derived from, naphthalene; -- used specifically to designate a yellow crystalline substance, called naphthalenic acid and also hydroxy quinone, and obtained from certain derivatives of naphthol. 

NAPHTHALIDINE:  Same as Naphthylamine.  NAPHTHALIN; NAPHTHALINE Naph"tha*lin, Naph"tha*line, n. Etym: [F. naphthaline.] (Chem.)  See Naphthalene. 

NAPHTHALIZE:  To mingle, saturate, or impregnate, with naphtha. 

NAPHTHAZARIN:  A dyestuff, resembling alizarin, obtained from naphthoquinone as a red crystalline substance with a bright green, metallic luster; -- called also naphthalizarin. 

NAPHTHENE:  A peculiar hydrocarbon occuring as an ingredient of Caucasian petroleum. 

NAPHTHIDE:  A compound of naphthalene or its radical with a metallic element; as, mercuric naphthide. 

NAPHTHOIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, naphthalene; -- used specifically to designate any one of a series of carboxyl derivatives, called naphthoic acids. 

NAPHTHOL:  Any one of a series of hydroxyl derivatives of naphthalene, analogous to phenol. In general they are crystalline substances with a phenol (carbolic) odor. Naphthol blue, Naphthol orange, Naphthol yellow (Chem.), brilliant dyestuffs produced from certain complex nitrogenous derivatives of naphthol or naphthoquinone. 

NAPHTHOQUINONE:  A yellow crystalline substance, C10H6O2, analogous to quinone, obtained by oxidizing naphthalene with chromic acid. 

NAPHTHYL:  A hydrocarbon radical regarded as the essential residue of naphthalene. 

NAPHTHYLAMINE:  One of two basic amido derivatives of naphthalene, C10H7.NH2, forming crystalline solids.  NAPIERIAN; NAPERIAN Na*pie"ri*an, Na*pe"ri*an ,, a.  Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Napier, or Naper. Naperian logarithms. See under Logarithms.  NAPIER'S BONES; NAPIER'S RODS Na"pi*er's bones`, Na"pi*er's rods`.  A set of rods, made of bone or other material, each divided into nine spaces, and containing the numbers of a column of the multiplication table; -- a contrivance of Baron Napier, the inventor of logarithms, for facilitating the operations of multiplication and division. 

NAPIFORM:  Turnip-shaped; large and round in the upper part, and very slender below. 

NAPLESS:  Without nap; threadbare. Shak.  NAPLES YELLOW Na"ples yel"low.  See under Yellow. 

NAPOLEON:  A French gold coin of twenty francs, or about $3.86. 

NAPOLEONIC:  Of or pertaining to Napoleon I., or his family; resembling, or having the qualities of, Napoleon I. Lowell. 

NAPOLEONIST:  A supporter of the dynasty of the Napoleons. 

NAPPE:  Sheet; surface; all that portion of a surface that is continuous in such a way that it is possible to pass from any one point of the portion to any other point of the portion without leaving the surface. Thus, some hyperboloids have one nappe, and some have two. 

NAPPINESS:  The quality of having a nap; abundance of nap, as on cloth. 

NAPPING:  A sheet of partially felted fur before it is united to the hat body. Knight. 

NAPPY:  Having a nap or pile; downy; shaggy. Holland. 

NAPPY:  A round earthen dish, with a flat bottom and sloping sides. [Written also nappie.]  NAP-TAKING Nap"-tak`ing, n.  A taking by surprise; an unexpected onset or attack. Carew. 

NAPU:  A very small chevrotain (Tragulus Javanicus), native of Java. It is about the size of a hare, and is noted for its agility in leaping. Called also Java musk deer, pygmy musk deer, and deerlet. 

NAPUS:  A kind of turnip. See Navew. 

NARCEINE:  An alkaloid found in small quantities in opium, and extracted as a white crystalline substance of a bitter astringent taste. It is a narcotic. Called also narceia. 

NARCISSINE:  Of or pertaining to Narcissus. 

NARCISSUS:  A genus of endogenous bulbous plants with handsome flowers, having a cup-shaped crown within the six-lobed perianth, and comprising the daffodils and jonquils of several kinds.  2. (Classical Myth.)  A beautiful youth fabled to have been enamored of his own image as seen in a fountain, and to have been changed into the flower called Narcissus. 

NARCOSIS:  Privation of sense or consciousness, due to a narcotic. 

NARCOTIC:  Having the properties of a narcotic; operating as a narcotic.  -- Nar*cot"ic*ness, n. 

NARCOTIC:  A drug which, in medicinal doses, generally allays morbid susceptibility, relieves pain, and produces sleep; but which, in poisonous doses, produces stupor, coma, or convulsions, and, when given in sufficient quantity, causes death. The best examples are opium (with morphine), belladonna (with atropine), and conium. Nercotykes and opye (opium) of Thebes. Chaucer. 

NARCOTICAL:  Narcotic.  -- Nar*cot"ic*al*ly, adv. 

NARCOTINE:  An alkaloid found in opium, and extracted as a white crystalline substance, tasteless and less poisonous than morphine; -- called also narcotia. 

NARCOTINIC:  Pertaining to narcotine. 

NARCOTISM:  Narcosis; the state of being narcotized. G. Eliot. 

NARCOTIZE:  To imbue with, or subject to the influence of, a narcotic; to put into a state of narcosis. 

NARD:  An East Indian plant (Nardostachys Jatamansi) of the Valerian family, used from remote ages in Oriental perfumery.  2. An ointment prepared partly from this plant. See Spikenard.  3. (Bot.)  A kind of grass (Nardus stricta) of little value, found in Europe and Asia. 

NARDINE:  Of or pertaining to nard; having the qualities of nard. 

NARDOO:  An Australian name for Marsilea Drummondii, a four-leaved cryptogamous plant, sometimes used for food. 

NARE:  A nostril. [R.] B. Jonson. 

NARES:  The nostrils or nasal openings, -- the anterior nares being the external or proper nostrils, and the posterior nares, the openings of the nasal cavities into the mouth or pharynx.  NARGILE; NARGILEH Nar"gile, Nar"gi*leh, n. Etym: [Per. narghil, prop., a cocoanut; prob. so called because first made of a cocoanut.]  An apparatus for smoking tobacco. It has a long flexible tube, and the smoke is drawn through water. 

NARICA:  The brown coati. See Coati. 

NARIFORM:  Formed like the nose. 

NARINE:  Of or belonging to the nostrils. 

NARRABLE:  Capable of being narrated or told. [Obs.] 

NARRAGANSETTS:  A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited the shores of Narragansett Bay. 

NARRATE:  To tell, rehearse, or recite, as a story; to relate the particulars of; to go through with in detail, as an incident or transaction; to give an account of.  Syn.  -- To relate; recount; detail; describe. 

NARRATION:  That part of a discourse which recites the time, manner, or consequences of an action, or simply states the facts connected with the subject.  Syn.  -- Account; recital; rehearsal; relation; description; explanation; detail; narrative; story; tale; history. See Account. 

NARRATIVE:  That which is narrated; the recital of a story; a continuous account of the particulars of an event or transaction; a story. Cyntio was much taken with my narrative. Tatler.  Syn.  -- Account; recital; rehearsal; relation; narration; story; tale. See Account. 

NARRATIVELY:  In the style of narration. 

NARRATOR:  One who narrates; one who relates a series of events or transactions. 

NARRATORY:  Giving an account of events; narrative; as, narratory letters. Howell. 

NARRE:  Nearer. [Obs.] Spenser. 

NARROW:  Formed (as a vowel) by a close position of some part of the tongue in relation to the palate; or (according to Bell) by a tense condition of the pharynx; -- distinguished from wide; as e (eve) and oo (food), etc., from ì (ìll) and oo (foot), etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 13.  Note: Narrow is not unfrequently prefixed to words, especially to participles and adjectives, forming compounds of obvious signification; as, narrow-bordered, narrow-brimmed, narrow-breasted, narrow-edged, narrow-faced, narrow-headed, narrow-leaved, narrow- pointed, narrow-souled, narrow-sphered, etc. Narrow gauge. (Railroad) See Note under Gauge, n., 6. 

NARROW:  A narrow passage; esp., a contracted part of a stream, lake, or sea; a strait connecting two bodies of water; -- usually in the plural; as, The Narrows of New York harbor. Near the island lay on one side the jaws of a dangerous narrow. Gladstone. 

NARROW:  To contract the size of, as a stocking, by taking two stitches into one. 

NARROW:  Not to step out enough to the one hand or the other; as, a horse narrows. Farrier's Dict.  3. (Knitting)  To contract the size of a stocking or other knit article, by taking two stitches into one. 

NARROWER:  One who, or that which, narrows or contracts. Hannah More. 

NARROWLY:  Of narrow mental scope; illiberal; mean.  -- Nar"row-mind`ed*ness, n. 

NARROWNESS:  The condition or quality of being narrow. 

NART:  Art not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NARTHEX:  A tall umbelliferous plant (Ferula communis). See Giant fennel, under Fennel.  2. (Arch.)  The portico in front of ancient churches; sometimes, the atrium or outer court surrounded by ambulatories; -- used, generally, for any vestibule, lobby, or outer porch, leading to the nave of a church. 

NARWAL:  See Narwhal. 

NARWE:  Narrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NARWHAL:  An arctic cetacean (Monodon monocerous), about twenty feet long. The male usually has one long, twisted, pointed canine tooth, or tusk projecting forward from the upper jaw like a horn, whence it is called also sea unicorn, unicorn fish, and unicorn whale. Sometimes two horns are developed, side by side. 

NAS:  Was not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NAS:  Has not. [Obs.] Spenser. 

NASAL:  Of or pertaining to the nose.  2. (Phon.)  Having a quality imparted by means of the nose; and specifically, made by lowering the soft palate, in some cases with closure of the oral passage, the voice thus issuing (wholly or partially) through the nose, as in the consonants m, n, ng (see Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 20, 208); characterized by resonance in the nasal passage; as, a nasal vowel; a nasal utterance. Nasal bones (Anat.), two bones of the skull, in front of the frontals.  -- Nasal index (Anat.), in the skull, the ratio of the transverse the base of the aperture to the nasion, which latter distance is taken as the standard, equal to 100. 

NASAL:  A medicine that operates through the nose; an errhine. [Archaic]  3. (Anc. Armor)  Part of a helmet projecting to protect the nose; a nose guard.  4. (Anat.)  One of the nasal bones.  5. (Zoöl.)  A plate, or scale, on the nose of a fish, etc. 

NASALITY:  The quality or state of being nasal. 

NASALIZATION:  The act of nasalizing, or the state of being nasalized. 

NASALIZE:  To render nasal, as sound; to insert a nasal or sound in. 

NASALIZE:  To utter words or letters with a nasal sound; to speak through the nose. 

NASALLY:  In a nasal manner; by the nose. 

NASCAL:  A kind of pessary of medicated wool or cotton, formerly used. 

NASCENCY:  State of being nascent; birth; beginning; origin. 

NASCENT:  Evolving; being evolved or produced. Nascent state (Chem.), the supposed instantaneous or momentary state of an uncombined atom or radical just separated from one compound acid, and not yet united with another, -- a hypothetical condition implying peculiarly active chemical properties; as, hydrogen in the nascent state is a strong reducer. 

NASEBERRY:  A tropical fruit. See Sapodilla. [Written also nisberry.] 

NASH:  Firm; stiff; hard; also, chilly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

NASICORNOUS:  Bearing a horn, or horns, on the nose, as the rhinoceros. 

NASIFORM:  Having the shape of a nose. 

NASION:  The middle point of the nasofrontal suture.  NASO- Na"so- (. Etym: [L. nasus nose.] (Anat.)  A combining form denoting pertaining to, or connected with, the nose; as, nasofrontal. 

NASOBUCCAL:  Connected with both the nose and the mouth; as, the nasobuccal groove in the skate. 

NASOFRONTAL:  of or pertaining to the nose and the front of the head; as, the embryonic nasofrontal process which forms the anterior boundary of the mouth. 

NASOLACHRYMAL:  Connected with the lachrymal apparatus and the nose; as, the nasolachrymal, or lachrymal duct.  NASOPALATAL; NASOPALATINE Na`so*pal"a*tal, Na`so*pal"a*tine, a. Etym: [Naso- + palatal.] (Anat.)  Connected with both the nose and the palate; as, the nasopalatine or incisor, canal connecting the mouth and the nasal chamber in some animals; the nasopalatine nerve. 

NASOPHARYNGEAL:  Of or pertaining to both throat and nose; as, a nasopharyngeal polypus. 

NASOSEPTAL:  Of or pertaining to the internasal septum. 

NASOTURBINAL:  Connected with, or near, both the turbinal and the nasal bones; as, the nasalturbinal bone, made up of the uppermost lammelæ of the ethmoturbinal, and sometimes united with the nasal.  -- n.  The nasoturbinal bone. 

NASSA:  Any species of marine gastropods, of the genera Nassa, Tritia, and other allied genera of the family Nassidæ; a dog whelk. See Illust. under Gastropoda.  -- nas"soid, a. 

NASTILY:  In a nasty manner. 

NASTINESS:  The quality or state of being nasty; extreme filthness; dirtiness; also, indecency; obscenity. The nastiness of Plautus and Aristophanes. Dryden. 

NASTURTION:  Same as Nasturtium. 

NASTURTIUM:  A genus of cruciferous plants, having white or yellowish flowers, including several species of cress. They are found chiefly in wet or damp grounds, and have a pungent biting taste.  2. (Bot.)  Any plant of the genus Tropæolum, geraniaceous herbs, having mostly climbing stems, peltate leaves, and spurred flowers, and including the common Indian cress (Tropæolum majus), the canary-bird flower (T. peregrinum), and about thirty more species, all natives of South America. The whole plant has a warm pungent flavor, and the fleshy fruits are used as a substitute for capers, while the leaves and flowers are sometimes used in salads. 

NASUTNESS:  Quickness of scent; hence, nice discernment; acuteness. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

NAT:  Not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NAT:  Not at; nor at. [Obs.] haucer. 

NATAL:  Presiding over nativity; as, natal Jove.  Syn.  -- Native, natural. See Native.  NATAL BOIL Na*tal" boil. (Med.)  = Aleppo boil.  NATALITIAL; NATALITIOUS Na`ta*li"tial, Na`ta*li"tious, a. Etym: [L. natalitius, from natalis. See Natal.]  Of or pertaining to one's birth or birthday, or one's nativity. [Obs.] "Natalitial poplar." Evelyn. "Natalitious fire." W. Cartwright. 

NATALOIN:  A bitter crystalline substance constituting the essential principle of Natal aloes. Cf. Aloon.  NATAL PLUM Na*tal" plum`. (Bot.)  The drupaceous fruit of two South African shrubs of the genus Arduina (A. bispinosa and A. grandiflora). 

NATALS:  One's birth, or the circumstances attending it. [Obs.] Fitz- Geffry. 

NATANT:  Floating in water, as the leaves of water lilies, or submersed, as those of many aquatic plants.  2. (Her.)  Placed horizontally across the field, as if swimmimg toward the dexter side; said of all sorts of fishes except the flying fish. 

NATANTLY:  In a floating manner; swimmingly. 

NATATION:  The act of floating on the water; swimming. Sir T. Browne. 

NATATORES:  The swimming birds.  Note: They were formerly united into one order, which is now considered an artifical group. 

NATATORIAL:  Inclined or adapted to swim; swimming; as, natatorial birds. 

NATATORIOUS:  Adapted for swimming; -- said of the legs of certain insects. 

NATATORIUM:  A swimming bath. 

NATATORY:  Adapted for swimming or floating; as, natatory organs. 

NATCH:  The rump of beef; esp., the lower and back part of the rump. Natch bone, the edgebone, or aitchbone, in beef. 

NATCHEZ:  A tribe of Indians who formerly lived near the site of the city of Natchez, Mississippi. In 1729 they were subdued by the French; the survivors joined the Creek Confederacy. 

NATCHNEE:  An annual grass (Eleusine coracona), cultivated in India as a food plant. 

NATES:  The umbones of a bivalve shell. 

NATH:  hath not. [Obs.] 

NATHLESS:  Nevertheless. [Archaic] Chaucer. Milton. E. Arnold. 

NATHMORE:  Not the more; never the more. [Obs.] penser. 

NATICA:  Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods belonging to Natica, Lunatia, Neverita, and other allied genera (family Naticidæ.) They burrow beneath the sand, or mud, and drill other shells. 

NATICOID:  Like or belonging to Natica, or the family Naticæ. 

NATION:  A part, or division, of the people of the earth, distinguished from the rest by common descent, language, or institutions; a race; a stock. All nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues. Rev. vii. 9.  2. The body of inhabitants of a country, united under an independent government of their own. A nation is the unity of a people. Coleridge. Praise the power that hath made and preserved us a nation. F. S. Key.  3. Family; lineage. [Obs.] Chaucer.  4. (a) One of the divisions of university students in a classification according to nativity, formerly common in Europe. (b) (Scotch Universities) One of the four divisions (named from the parts of Scotland) in which students were classified according to their nativity.  5. A great number; a great deal; -- by way of emphasis; as, a nation of herbs. Sterne. Five nations. See under Five.  -- Law of nations. See International law, under International, and Law.  Syn.  -- people; race. See People. 

NATIONALIST:  One who advocates national unity and independence; one of a party favoring Irish independence. 

NATIONALIZATION:  The act of nationalizing, or the state of being nationalized. 

NATIONALIZE:  To make national; to make a nation of; to endow with the character and habits of a nation, or the peculiar sentiments and attachment of citizens of a nation. 

NATIONALLY:  In a national manner or way; as a nation. "The jews ... being nationally espoused to God by covenant." South. 

NATIONALNESS:  The quality or state of being national; nationality. Johnson. 

NATIONALRATH:  See Legislature. 

NATIVE:  Any of the live stock found in a region, as distinguished from such as belong to pure and distinct imported breeds. [U.S.] 

NATIVELY:  By natural or original condition; naturally; originally. 

NATIVENESS:  The quality or state of being native.  NATIVE STEEL Na"tive steel.  A sort of steel which has been found where a burning coal seam had reduced and carbonized adjacent iron ore. 

NATIVISM:  The doctrine of innate ideas, or that the mind possesses forms of thought independent of sensation. 

NATIVIST:  An advocate of nativism. 

NATIVISTIC:  Relating to nativism. 

NATIVITY:  A picture representing or symbolizing the early infancy of Christ. The simplest form is the babe in a rude cradle, and the heads of an ox and an ass to express the stable in which he was born.  3. (Astrol.)  A representation of the positions of the heavenly bodies as the moment of one's birth, supposed to indicate his future destinies; a horoscope. The Nativity, the birth or birthday of Christ; Christmas day.  -- To cast, or calculate, one's nativity (Astrol.), to find out and represent the position of the heavenly bodies at the time of one's birth. 

NATKA:  A species of shrike. 

NATRIUM:  The technical name for sodium. 

NATROLITE:  A zeolite occuring in groups of glassy acicular crystals, and in masses which often have a radiated structure. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and soda. 

NATRON:  Native sodium carbonate. [Written also anatron.] 

NATTER:  To find fault; to be peevish. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.] 

NATTERJACK:  A European toad (Bufo calamita), having a yellow line along its back. 

NATTY:  Neat; tidy; spruce. [Colloq.] -- Nat"ti*ly, adv.  -- Nat"ti*ness, n. 

NATURAL:  Belonging to, to be taken in, or referred to, some system, in which the base is 1; -- said or certain functions or numbers; as, natural numbers, those commencing at 1; natural sines, cosines, etc., those taken in arcs whose radii are 1.  10. (Mus.) (a) Produced by natural organs, as those of the human throat, in distinction from instrumental music. (b) of or pertaining to a key which has neither a flat nor a sharp for its signature, as the key of C major. (c) Applied to an air or modulation of harmony which moves by easy and smooth transitions, digressing but little from the original key. Moore (Encyc. of Music). Natural day, the space of twenty-four hours. Chaucer.  -- Natural fats, Natural gas, etc. See under Fat, Gas. etc.  -- Natural Harmony (Mus.), the harmony of the triad or common chord.  -- Natural history, in its broadest sense, a history or description of nature as a whole, incuding the sciences of botany, zoölogy, geology, mineralogy, paleontology, chemistry, and physics. In recent usage the term is often restricted to the sciences of botany and zoölogy collectively, and sometimes to the science of zoology alone.  -- Natural law, that instinctive sense of justice and of right and wrong, which is native in mankind, as distinguished from specifically revealed divine law, and formulated human law.  -- Natural modulation (Mus.), transition from one key to its relative keys.  -- Natural order. (Nat. Hist.) See under order.  -- Natural person. (Law) See under person, n.  -- Natural philosophy, originally, the study of nature in general; in modern usage, that branch of physical science, commonly called physics, which treats of the phenomena and laws of matter and considers those effects only which are unaccompanied by any change of a chemical nature; -- contrasted with mental and moral philosophy.  -- Natural scale (Mus.), a scale which is written without flats or sharps. Model would be a preferable term, as less likely to mislead, the so-called artificial scales (scales represented by the use of flats and sharps) being equally natural with the so-called natural scale -- Natural science, natural history, in its broadest sense; -- used especially in contradistinction to mental or moral science.  -- Natural selection (Biol.), a supposed operation of natural laws analogous, in its operation and results, to designed selection in breeding plants and animals, and resulting in the survival of the fittest. The theory of natural selection supposes that this has been brought about mainly by gradual changes of environment which have led to corresponding changes of structure, and that those forms which have become so modified as to be best adapted to the changed environment have tended to survive and leave similarly adapted descendants, while those less perfectly adapted have tended to die out though lack of fitness for the environment, thus resulting in the survival of the fittest. See Darwinism.  -- Natural system (Bot. & Zoöl.), a classification based upon real affinities, as shown in the structure of all parts of the organisms, and by their embryology. It should be borne in mind that the natural system of botany is natural only in the constitution of its genera, tribes, orders, etc., and in its grand divisions. Gray. -- Natural theology, or Natural religion, that part of theological science which treats of those evidences of the existence and attributes of the Supreme Being which are exhibited in nature; -- distinguished from revealed religion. See Quotation under Natural, a., 3.  -- Natural vowel, the vowel sound heard in urn, furl, sir, her, etc.; -- so called as being uttered in the easiest open position of the mouth organs. See Neutral vowel, under Neutral and Guide to Pronunciation, § 17.  Syn.  -- See Native. 

NATURAL:  Natural gifts, impulses, etc. [Obs.] Fuller.  3. One born without the usual powers of reason or understanding; an idiot. "The minds of naturals." Locke.  4. (Mus.)  A character [] used to contradict, or to remove the effect of, a sharp or flat which has preceded it, and to restore the unaltered note. 

NATURALISM:  The doctrine of those who deny a supernatural agency in the miracles and revelations recorded in the Bible, and in spiritual influences; also, any system of philosophy which refers the phenomena of nature to a blind force or forces acting necessarily or according to fixed laws, excluding origination or direction by one intelligent will. 

NATURALITY:  Nature; naturalness. [R.] 

NATURALIZATION:  The act or process of naturalizing, esp. of investing an alien with the rights and privileges of a native or citizen; also, the state of being naturalized. 

NATURALLY:  In a natural manner or way; according to the usual course of things; spontaneously. 

NATURALNESS:  The state or quality of being natural; conformity to nature.  NATURAL STEEL Nat"u*ral steel.  Steel made by the direct refining of cast iron in a finery, or, as wootz, by a direct process from the ore. 

NATURE:  To endow with natural qualities. [Obs.] He [God] which natureth every kind. Gower. 

NATURED:  Having (such) a nature, temper, or disposition; disposed; -- used in composition; as, good-natured, ill-natured, etc. 

NATURELESS:  Not in accordance with nature; unnatural. [Obs.] Milton. 

NATURISM:  The belief or doctrine that attributes everything to nature as a sanative agent. 

NATURIST:  One who believes in, or conforms to, the theory of naturism. Boyle. 

NATURITY:  The quality or state of being produced by nature. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

NATURIZE:  To endow with a nature or qualities; to refer to nature. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

NAUFRAGE:  Shipwreck; ruin. [Obs.] acon. 

NAUFRAGOUS:  causing shipwreck. [Obs.] r. Taylor. 

NAUGHT:  In no degree; not at all. Chaucer. To wealth or sovereign power he naught applied. Fairfax. 

NAUGHTILY:  In a naughty manner; wickedly; perversely. Shak. 

NAUGHTINESS:  The quality or state of being naughty; perverseness; badness; wickedness. I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thine heart. 1 Sam. xvii. 28. 

NAUGHTLY:  Naughtily; wrongly. [Obs.] because my parents naughtly brought me up. Mir. for Mag. 

NAUGHTY:  Orig., a method of therapeutic treatment administered, esp. for chronic diseases of the curculatory system, at Bad Nauheim, Germany, by G. Schott, consisting in baths in the natural mineral waters of that place, which are charged with carbonic acid, and the use of a graduated course of rest, physical exercises, massage, etc.; hence, any similar treatment using waters artificially charged with the essential ingredients of the natural mineral waters of Bad Nauheim. Hence, Nauheim bath, etc. 

NAUMACHY:  A show or spectacle representing a sea fight; also, a place for such exhibitions. 

NAUPLIUS:  A crustacean larva having three pairs of locomotive organs (corresponding to the antennules, antennæ, and mandibles), a median eye, and little or no segmentation of the body. 

NAUROPOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the amount which a ship heels at sea. 

NAUSCOPY:  The power or act of discovering ships or land at considerable distances. 

NAUSEA:  Seasickness; hence, any similar sickness of the stomach accompanied with a propensity to vomit; qualm; squeamishness of the stomach; loathing. 

NAUSEANT:  A substance which produces nausea. 

NAUSEATE:  To become squeamish; to feel nausea; to turn away with disgust. 

NAUSEATION:  The act of nauseating, or the state of being nauseated. 

NAUSEATIVE:  Causing nausea; nauseous. 

NAUSEOUS:  Causing, or fitted to cause, nausea; sickening; loathsome; disgusting; exciting abhorrence; as, a nauseous drug or medicine.  -- Nau"seous*ly, adv.  -- Nau"seous*ness, n. The nauseousness of such company disgusts a reasonable man. Dryden. 

NAUTCH:  An entertainment consisting chiefly of dancing by professional dancing (or Nautch) girls. [India] 

NAUTIC:  Nautical. 

NAUTICAL:  Of or pertaining to seamen, to the art of navigation, or to ships; as, nautical skill.  Syn.  -- Naval; marine; maritime. See Naval. Nautical almanac. See under Almanac.  -- Nautical distance, the length in nautical miles of the rhumb line joining any two places on the earth's surface.  -- nautical mile. see under Mile. 

NAUTICALLY:  In a nautical manner; with reference to nautical affais. 

NAUTIFORM:  Shaped like the hull of a ship. 

NAUTILITE:  A fossil nautilus. 

NAUTILOID:  Like or pertaining to the nautilus; shaped like a nautilus shell.  -- n.  A mollusk, or shell, of the genus Nautilus or family Nautilidæ. 

NAUTILUS:  The only existing genus of tetrabranchiate cephalopods. About four species are found living in the tropical Pacific, but many other species are found fossil. The shell is spiral, symmetrical, and chambered, or divided into several cavities by simple curved partitions, which are traversed and connected together by a continuous and nearly central tube or siphuncle. See Tetrabranchiata.  Note: The head of the animal bears numerous simple tapered arms, or tentacles, arranged in groups, but not furnished with suckers. The siphon, unlike, that of ordinary cephalopods, is not a closed tube, and is not used as a locomotive organ, but merely serves to conduct water to and from the gill cavity, which contains two pairs of gills. The animal occupies only the outer chamber of the shell; the others are filled with gas. It creeps over the bottom of the sea, not coming to the surface to swim or sail, as was formerly imagined.  2. The argonaut; -- also called paper nautilus. See Argonauta, and Paper nautilus, under Paper.  3. A variety of diving bell, the lateral as well as vertical motions of which are controlled, by the occupants. 

NAVAJOES:  A tribe of Indians inhabiting New Mexico and Arizona, allied to the Apaches. They are now largely engaged in agriculture. 

NAVAL:  Having to do with shipping; of or pertaining to ships or a navy; consisting of ships; as, naval forces, successes, stores, etc.  Naval brigade, a body of seamen or marines organized for military service on land.  -- Naval officer. (a) An officer in the navy. (b) A high officer in some United States customhouses.  -- Naval tactics, the science of managing or maneuvering vessels sailing in squadrons or fleets.  Syn.  -- Nautical; marine; maritime.  -- Naval, Nautical. Naval is applied to vessels, or a navy, or the things which pertain to them or in which they participate; nautical, to seamen and the art of navigation. Hence we speak of a naval, as opposed to a military, engagement; naval equipments or stores, a naval triumph, a naval officer, etc., and of nautical pursuits or instruction, nautical calculations, a nautical almanac, etc. 

NAVALS:  Naval affairs. [Obs.] 

NAVARCH:  The commander of a fleet. Mitford. 

NAVARCHY:  Nautical skill or experience. [Obs.] ir W. Petty. 

NAVARRESE:  Of or pertaining to Navarre.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or inhabitant of Navarre; the people of Navarre. 

NAVE:  The middle or body of a church, extending from the transepts to the principal entrances, or, if there are no transepts, from the choir to the principal entrance, but not including the aisles. 

NAVEL:  A mark or depression in the middle of the abdomen; the umbilicus. See Umbilicus, belly button in humans  2. The central part or point of anything; the middle. Within the navel of this hideous wood, Immured in cypress shades, a sorcerer dwells. Milton.  3. (Gun.)  An eye on the under side of a carronade for securing it to a carriage. Navel gall, a bruise on the top of the chine of the back of a horse, behind the saddle. Johnson.  -- Navel point. (Her.) Same as Nombril.  NAVEL ORANGE Na"vel or"ange.  A type of orange in which the fruit incloses a small secondary fruit, the rind showing on the exterior a navel-like pit or depression at the apex. There are several varieties; they are usually seedless, or nearly so, and are much grown in California.  NAVEL-STRING Na"vel-string`, n.  The umbilical cord. 

NAVELWORT:  A European perennial succulent herb (Cotyledon umbilicus), having round, peltate leaves with a central depression; -- also called pennywort, and kidneywort. 

NAVEW:  A kind of small turnip, a variety of Brassica campestris. See Brassica. [Writen also naphew.] 

NAVICULAR:  The navicular bone. 

NAVIGABILITY:  The quality or condition of being navigable; navigableness. 

NAVIGABLE:  Capable of being navigated; deep enough and wide enough to afford passage to vessels; as, a navigable river.  Note: By the comon law, a river is considered as navigable only so far as the tide ebbs and flows in it. This is also the doctrine in several of the United tates. In other States, the doctrine of thje civil law prevails, which is, that a navigable river is a river capable of being navigated, in the common sense of the term. Kent. Burrill.  -- Nav"i*ga*ble*ness, n.  -- Nav"i*ga*bly, adv. 

NAVIGATE:  To joirney by water; to go in a vessel or ship; to perform the duties of a navigator; to use the waters as a highway or channel for commerce or communication; to sail. The Phenicians navigated to the extremities of the Western Ocean. Arbuthnot. 

NAVIGATOR:  One who navigates or sails; esp., one who direct the course of a ship, or one who is skillful in the art of navigation; also, a book which teaches the art of navigation; as, Bowditch's Navigator. 

NAVIGEROUS:  Bearing ships; capable of floating vessels. [R.] Blount. 

NAVVY:  Originally, a laborer on canals for internal navigation; hence, a laborer on other public works, as in building railroads, embankments, etc. [Eng.] 

NAVY:  Prussian blue. 

NAWAB:  A deputy ruler or viceroy in India; also, a title given by courtesy to other persons of high rank in the East. 

NAWL:  An awl. [Obs.] usser. 

NAY:  To refuse. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

NAYAUR:  A specied of wild sheep (Ovis Hodgsonii), native of Nepaul and Thibet. It has a dorsal mane and a white ruff beneath the neck. 

NAYT:  To refuse; to deny. [Obs.] "He shall not nayt ne deny his sin." Chaucer. 

NAYWARD:  The negative side. [R.] Howe'er you lean to the nayward. Shak. 

NAYWORD:  A byword; a proverb; also, a watchword. [Obs.] hak. 

NAZARENE:  One of a sect of Judaizing Christians in the first and second centuries, who observed the laws of Moses, and held to certain heresies. 

NAZARITE:  A Jew bound by a vow to lave the hair uncut, to abstain from wine and strong drink, and to practice extraordinary purity of life and devotion, the obligation being for life, or for a certain time. The word is also used adjectively. 

NAZARITESHIP:  The state of a Nazarite. 

NAZARITIC:  Of or pertaining to a Nazarite, or to Nazarites. 

NAZARITISM:  The vow and practice of a Nazarite. 

NAZE:  A promotory or headland. 

NAZIRITE:  A Nazarite. 

NE:  Not; never. [Obs.] He never yet no villany ne said. Chaucer.  Note: Ne was formerly used as the universal adverb of negation, and survives in certain compounds, as never (= ne ever) and none (= ne one). Other combinations, now obsolete, will be found in the Vocabulary, as nad, nam, nil. See Negative, 2. 

NE:  Nor. [Obs.] Shak. No niggard ne no fool. Chaucer. Ne . . . ne, neither . . . nor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NEAF:  See 2d Neif. Shak. 

NEAL:  To anneal. [R.] Chaucer. 

NEAL:  To be tempered by heat. [R.] Bacon.  NEANDERTHAL; NEANDERTHAL RACE; NEANDERTHAL MAN Ne*an"der*thal`, a. (Anthropol.)  Of, pertaining to, or named from, the Neanderthal, a valley in the Rhine Province, in which were found parts of a skeleton of an early type of man. The skull is characterized by extreme dolichocephaly, flat, retreating forehead, with closed frontal sutures, and enormous superciliary ridges. The cranial capacity is estimated at about 1,220 cubic centimeters, being about midway between that of the Pithecanthropus and modern man. Hence, designating the Neanderthal race, or man, a species supposed to have been widespread in paleolithic Europe. 

NEANDERTHALOID:  Like, or pertaining to, the Neanderthal skull, or the type of man it represents. 

NEAP:  The tongue or pole of a cart or other vehicle drawn by two animals. [U.S.] 

NEAP:  Low. Neap tides, the lowest tides of the lunar month, which occur in the second and fourth quarters of the moon; -- opposed to spring tides. 

NEAP:  A neap tide. High springs and dead neaps. Harkwill. 

NEAPED:  Left aground on the height of a spring tide, so that it will not float till the next spring tide; -- called also beneaped. 

NEAPOLITAN:  Of of pertaining to Maples in Italy.  -- n.  A native or citizen of Naples.  NEAPOLITAN ICE; NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM Ne`a*pol"i*tan ice, Neapolitan ice cream.  (a) An ice or ice cream containing eggs as well as cream.  (b) An ice or ice cream prepared in layers, as vanilla, strawberry, and chocolate ice cream, and orange or lemon water ice. 

NEAR:  Adjacent to; close by; not far from; nigh; as, the ship sailed near the land. See the Note under near, a. 

NEAR:  To approach; to come nearer; as, the ship neared the land. 

NEAR:  To draw near; to approach. A speck, a mist, a shape, I wist! And still it neared, and neared. Coleridge.  NEAR BEER Near beer.  Any of various malt liquors (see Citation).  Near beer is a term of common currency used to designate all that class of malt liquors which contain so little alcohol that they will not produce intoxication, though drunk to excess, and includes in its meaning all malt liquors which are not within the purview of the general prohibition law. Cambell v. City of Thomasville, Georgia Appeal Records, 6 212. 

NEARCTIC:  Of or pertaining to a region of the earth's surface including all of temperate and arctic North America and Greenland. In the geographical distribution of animals, this region is marked off as the habitat certain species. 

NEARHAND:  Near; near at hand; closely. [Obs. or Scot.] Bacon.  NEAR-LEGGED Near"-legged`, a.  Having the feet so near together that they interfere in traveling. Shak. 

NEARLY:  In a near manner; not remotely; closely; intimately; almost. 

NEARNESS:  The state or quality of being near; -- used in the various senses of the adjective.  NEARSIGHTED; NEARSIGHTEDNESS Near"sight`ed, a.  Seeing distinctly at short distances only; shortsighted.  -- Near"sight`ed*ness, n.  See Myopic, and Myopia. 

NEAT:  Cattle of the genus Bos, as distinguished from horses, sheep, and goats; an animal of the genus Bos; as, a neat's tongue; a neat's foot. Chaucer. Wherein the herds[men] were keeping of their neat. Spenser. The steer, the heifer, and the calf Are all called neat. Shak. A neat and a sheep of his own. Tusser. Neat's-foot, an oil obtained by boiling the feet of neat cattle. It is used to render leather soft and pliable. 

NEAT:  Of or pertaining to the genus Bos, or to cattle of that genus; as, neat cattle. 

NEAT:  An abbreviation of Beneath. [Poetic] 

NEATHERD:  A person who has the care of neat cattle; a cowherd. Dryden. 

NEATHOUSE:  A building for the shelter of neat cattle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Massinger. 

NEATIFY:  To make neat. [Obs.] olland. 

NEATLY:  In a neat manner; tidily; tastefully. 

NEATNESS:  The state or quality of being neat. 

NEATRESS:  A woman who takes care of cattle. [R.] Warner. 

NEB:  The nose; the snout; the mouth; the beak of a bird; a nib, as of a pen. [Also written nib.] Shak. 

NEBALIA:  A genus of small marine Crustacea, considered the type of a distinct order (Nebaloidea, or Phyllocarida.)  NEB-NEB Neb"-neb`, n.  Same as Bablh. 

NEBULA:  A faint, cloudlike, self-luminous mass of matter situated beyond the solar system among the stars. True nebulæ are gaseous; but very distant star clusters often appear like them in the telescope.  2. (Med.) (a) A white spot or a slight opacity of the cornea. (b) A cloudy appearance in the urine. [Obs.] 

NEBULAR:  Of or pertaining to nebulæ; of the nature of, or resembling, a nebula. Nebular hypothesis, an hypothesis to explain the process of formation of the stars and planets, presented in various forms by Kant, Herschel, Laplace, and others. As formed by Laplace, it supposed the matter of the solar system to have existed originally in the form of a vast, diffused, revolving nebula, which, gradually cooling and contracting, threw off, in obedience to mechanical and physical laws, succesive rings of matter, from which subsequently, by the same laws, were produced the several planets, satellites, and other bodies of the system. The phrase may indicate any hypothesis according to which the stars or the bodies of the solar system have been evolved from a widely diffused nebulous form of matter. 

NEBULATED:  Clouded with indistinct color markings, as an animal. 

NEBULATION:  The condition of being nebulated; also, a clouded, or ill- defined, color mark. 

NEBULE:  A little cloud; a cloud. [Obs.] O light without nebule. Old Ballad.  NEBULE; NEBULY Né`bu`lé", Neb"u*ly, a. Etym: [F. nébulé.] (Her.)  Composed of successive short curves supposed to resemble a cloud; -- said of a heraldic line by which an ordinary or subordinary may be bounded. 

NEBULIZATION:  The act or process of nebulizing; atomization. 

NEBULIZE:  To reduce (as a liquid) to a fine spray or vapor; to atomize. 

NEBULIZER:  An atomizer. 

NEBULOSE:  Nebulous; cloudy. Derham. 

NEBULOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or having the appearance of, a nebula; nebular; cloudlike.  -- Neb"u*lous*ly, adv.  -- Neb"u*lous*ness, n. 

NEBULY:  A line or a direction composed of successive short curves or waves supposed to resembe a cloud. See NÉbulÉ 

NECESSARIAN:  An advocate of the doctrine of philosophical necessity; a nacessitarian. 

NECESSARIAN:  Of or pertaining to necessarianism. 

NECESSARIANISM:  The doctrine of philosophical necessity; necessitarianism. Hixley. 

NECESSARILY:  In a necessary manner; by necessity; unavoidably; indispensably. 

NECESSARINESS:  The quality of being necessary. 

NECESSARY:  Such things, in respect to infants, lunatics, and married women, as are requisite for support suitable to station. 

NECESSITARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the doctrine of philosophical necessity in regard to the origin and existence of things, especially as applied to the actings or choices of the will; -- opposed to libertarian. 

NECESSITARIAN:  One who holds to the doctrine of necessitarianism. 

NECESSITARIANISM:  The doctrine of philosophical necessity; the doctrine that results follow by invariable sequence from causes, and esp. that the will is not free, but that human actions and choices result inevitably from motives; deteminism. M. Arnold. 

NECESSITATTION:  The act of making necessary, or the state of being made necessary; compulsion. [R.] bp. Bramhall. 

NECESSITIED:  In a state of want; necessitous. [Obs.] Shak. 

NECESSITY:  The negation of freedom in voluntary action; the subjection of all phenomena, whether material or spiritual, to inevitable causation; necessitarianism. Of necessity, by necessary consequence; by compulsion, or irresistible power; perforce.  Syn.  -- See Need. 

NECK:  A reduction in size near the end of an object, formed by a groove around it; as, a neck forming the journal of a shaft.  4. (Bot.)  the point where the base of the stem of a plant arises from the root. Neck and crop, completely; wholly; altogether; roughly and at once. [Colloq.] -- Neck and neck (Racing), so nearly equal that one cannot be said to be before the other; very close; even; side by side.  -- Neck of a capital. (Arch.) See Gorgerin.  -- Neck of a cascabel (Gun.), the part joining the knob to the base of the breech.  -- Neck of a gun, the small part of the piece between the chase and the swell of the muzzle.  -- Neck of a tooth (Anat.), the constriction between the root and the crown.  -- Neck or nothing (Fig.), at all risks.  -- Neck verse. (a) The verse formerly read to entitle a party to the benefit of clergy, said to be the first verse of the fifty-first Psalm, "Miserere mei," etc. Sir W. Scott. (b) Hence, a verse or saying, the utterance of which decides one's fate; a shibboleth. These words, "bread and cheese," were their neck verse or shibboleth to distinguish them; all pronouncing "broad and cause," being presently put to death. Fuller. -- Neck yoke. (a) A bar by which the end of the tongue of a wagon or carriage is suspended from the collars of the harnesses. (b) A device with projecting arms for carrying things (as buckets of water or sap) suspended from one's shoulders.  -- On the neck of, immediately after; following closely. "Commiting one sin on the neck of another." W. Perkins.  -- Stiff neck, obstinacy in evil or wrong; inflexible obstinacy; contumacy. "I know thy rebellion, and thy stiff neck." Deut. xxxi. 27.  -- To break the neck of, to destroy the main force of. "What they presume to borrow from her sage and virtuous rules... breaks the neck of their own cause." Milton.  -- To harden the neck, to grow obstinate; to be more and more perverse and rebellious. Neh. ix. 17.  -- To tread on the neck of, to oppress; to tyrannize over. 

NECK:  To reduce the diameter of (an object) near its end, by making a groove around it; -- used with down; as, to neck down a shaft. v. t. & i. To kiss and caress amorously. n. necking  NECKAR NUT Neck"ar nut`. (Bot.)  See Nicker nut. 

NECKBAND:  A band which goes around the neck; often, the part at the top of a garment. 

NECKCLOTH:  A piece of any fabric worn around the neck. 

NECKED:  Cracked; -- said of a treenail. 

NECKERCHIEF:  A kerchief for the neck; -- called also neck handkerchief. 

NECKING:  Same as Neckmold. 

NECKLACE:  A rope or chain fitted around the masthead to hold hanging blocks for jibs and stays. 

NECKLACED:  Wearing a necklace; marked as with a necklace. The hooded and the necklaced snake. Sir W. Jones. 

NECKLAND:  A neck of land. [Obs.] 

NECKLET:  A necklace. E. Anold.  NECKMOLD; NECKMOULD Neck"mold`, Neck"mould`, n. (Arch.)  A small convex molding surrounding a column at the jinction of the shaft and capital. Weale. 

NECKPLATE:  See Gorget, 1 and 2. 

NECKTIE:  A scarf, band, or kerchief of silk, etc., passing around the neck or collar and tied in front; a bow of silk, etc., fastened in front of the neck. 

NECKWEAR:  A collective term for cravats, collars, etc. [Colloq. or trade name] 

NECROBIOSIS:  The death of a part by molecular disintegration and without loss of continuity, as in the processes of degeneration and atrophy. Virchow. 

NECROBIOTIC:  Of or pertaining to necrobiosis; as, a necrobiotic metamorphosis. 

NECROLATRY:  The worship of the dead; manes worship. H. Spenser. 

NECROLITE:  Same as Necronite.  NECROLOGIC; NECROLOGICAL Nec`ro*log"ic, Nec`ro*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. nécrologique.]  Of or pertaining to necrology; of the nature of necrology; relating to, or giving, an account of the dead, or of deaths. 

NECROLOGIST:  One who gives an account of deaths. 

NECROLOGY:  An account of deaths, or of the dead; a register of deaths; a collection of obituary notices. 

NECROMANCER:  One who practices necromancy; a sorcerer; a wizard. 

NECROMANCY:  The art of revealing future events by means of a pretended communication with the dead; the black art; hence, magic in general; conjuration; enchantment. See Black art. This palace standeth in the air, By necromancy placèd there. Drayton. 

NECROMANTIC:  Conjuration. [R.] With all the necromantics of their art. Young.  NECROMANTIC; NECROMANTICAL Nec`ro*man"tic, Nec`ro*man"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to necromancy; performed by necromancy.  -- Nec`ro*man"tic*al*ly, adv. 

NECRONITE:  Fetid feldspar, a mineral which, when struck, exhales a fetid odor. 

NECROPHAGAN:  Eating carrion.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  Any species of a tribe (Necrophaga) of beetles which, in the larval state, feed on carrion; a burying beetle. 

NECROPHAGOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Necrophaga; eating carrion. See Necrophagan. 

NECROPHOBIA:  An exaggerated fear of death or horror of dead bodies. 

NECROPHORE:  Any one of numerous species of beetles of the genus Necrophorus and allied genera; -- called also burying beetle, carrion beetle, sexton beetle. 

NECROPOLIS:  A city of the dead; a name given by the ancients to their cemeteries, and sometimes applied to modern burial places; a graveyard. 

NECROPSY:  A post-mortem examination or inspection; an autopsy. See Autopsy.  NECROSCOPIC; NECROSCOPICAL Nec`ro*scop"ic, Nec`ro*scop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]  Or or relating to post-mortem examinations. 

NECROSE:  To affect with necrosis; to unergo necrosis. Quain. 

NECROSED:  Affected by necrosis; dead; as, a necrosed bone. Dunglison. 

NECROSIS:  Mortification or gangrene of bone, or the death of a bone or portion of a bone in mass, as opposed to its death by molecular disintegration. See Caries.  2. (Bot.)  A disease of trees, in which the branches gradually dry up from the bark to the center. 

NECROTIC:  Affected with necrosis; as, necrotic tissue; characterized by, or producing, necrosis; as, a necrotic process. 

NECROTOMY:  The dissection of dead bodies; also, excision of necrosed bone. --Nec`ro*tom"ic (#), a. --Nec*rot"o*mist (#), n. 

NECTAR:  The drink of the gods (as ambrosia was their food); hence, any delicious or inspiring beverage.  2. (Bot.)  A sweetish secretion of blossoms from which bees make honey. 

NECTAREAL:  Of or pertaining to a nectary. 

NECTAREAN:  Resembling nectar; very sweet and pleasant. "nectarean juice." Talfourd. 

NECTARED:  Imbued with nectar; mingled with nectar; abounding with nectar. Milton. 

NECTAREOUS:  Of, pertaining to, containing, or resembling nectar; delicious; nectarean. Pope.  -- Nec*ta"re*ous*ly, adv.  -- Nec*ta"re*ous*ness, n. 

NECTARIAL:  Of or pertaining to the nectary of a plant. 

NECTARIED:  Having a nectary. 

NECTARIFEROUS:  Secreting nectar; -- said of blossoms or their parts. 

NECTARINE:  Nectareous. [R.] Milton. 

NECTARINE:  A smooth-skinned variety of peach. Spanish nectarine, the plumlike fruit of the West Indian tree Chrysobalanus Icaco; -- also called cocoa plum. it is made into a sweet conserve which a largely exported from Cuba. 

NECTARIZE:  To mingle or infuse with nectar; to sweeten. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

NECTAROUS:  Nectareous. Milton. 

NECTARY:  That part of a blossom which secretes nectar, usually the base of the corolla or petals; also, the spur of such flowers as the larkspur and columbine, whether nectariferous or not. See the Illustration of Nasturtium. 

NECTOCALYX:  The cavity of a nectocalyx. 

NECTOSTEM:  That portion of the axis which bears the nectocalyces in the Siphonophora. 

NEDDER:  An adder. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. 

NEDDY:  A pet name for a donkey. 

NEE:  Born; -- a term sometimes used in introducing the name of the family to which a married woman belongs by birth; as, Madame de Staël, née Necker. 

NEED:  To be in want of; to have cause or occasion for; to lack; to require, as supply or relief. Other creatures all day long Rove idle, unemployed, and less need rest. Milton.  Note: With another verb, need is used like an auxiliary, generally in a negative sentence expressing requirement or obligation, and in this use it undergoes no change of termination in the third person singular of the present tense. "And the lender need not fear he shall be injured." Anacharsis (Trans. ). 

NEED:  To be wanted; to be necessary. Chaucer. When we have done it, we have done all that is in our power, and all that needs. Locke. 

NEED:  Of necessity. See Needs. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NEEDER:  One who needs anything. Shak. 

NEEDILY:  In a needy condition or manner; necessarily. Chaucer. 

NEEDINESS:  The state or quality of being needy; want; poverty; indigence. 

NEEDLE:  One of the needle-shaped secondary leaves of pine trees. See Pinus.  5. Any slender, pointed object, like a needle, as a pointed crystal, a sharp pinnacle of rock, an obelisk, etc. Dipping needle. See under Dipping.  -- Needle bar, the reciprocating bar to which the needle of a sewing machine is attached.  -- Needle beam (Arch.), to shoring, the horizontal cross timber which goes through the wall or a pier, and upon which the weight of the wall rests, when a building is shored up to allow of alterations in the lower part.  -- Needle furze (Bot.), a prickly leguminous plant of Western Europe; the petty whin (Genista Anglica).  -- Needle gun, a firearm loaded at the breech with a cartridge carrying its own fulminate, which is exploded by driving a slender needle, or pin, into it.  -- Needle loom (Weaving), a loom in which the weft thread is carried through the shed by a long eye-pointed needle instead of by a shuttle.  -- Needle ore (Min.), acicular bismuth; a sulphide of bismuth, lead, and copper occuring in acicular crystals; -- called also aikinite.  -- Needle shell (Zoöl.), a sea urchin.  -- Needle spar (Min.), aragonite.  -- Needle telegraph, a telegraph in which the signals are given by the deflections of a magnetic needle to the right or to the left of a certain position.  -- Sea needle (Zoöl.), the garfish. 

NEEDLE:  To form in the shape of a needle; as, to needle crystals. 

NEEDLE:  To form needles; to crystallize in the form of needles. 

NEEDLEBOOK:  A book-shaped needlecase, having leaves of cloth into which the needles are stuck. 

NEEDLECASE:  A case to keep needles. 

NEEDLEFUL:  As much thread as is used in a needle at one time.  NEEDLE-POINTED Nee"dle-pointed`, a.  Pointed as needles. 

NEEDLER:  One who makes or uses needles; also, a dealer in needles. Piers Plowman. 

NEEDLESTONE:  Natrolite; -- called also needle zeolite. 

NEEDLEWOMAN:  A woman who does needlework; a seamstress. 

NEEDLY:  Like a needle or needles; as, a needly horn; a needly beard. R. D. Blackmore. 

NEEDLY:  Necessarily; of necessity. [Obs.] hak. 

NEEDMENT:  Something needed or wanted. pl.  Outfit; necessary luggage. [Archaic] Spenser. Carrying each his needments. Wordsworth. 

NEEDS:  Of necessity; necessarily; indispensably; -- often with must, and equivalent to of need. A man must needs love mauger his head. Chaucer. And he must needs go through Samaria. John iv. 4. He would needs know the cause of his reulse. Sir J. Davies. 

NEEDSCOST:  Of necessity. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NEEDSLY:  Of necessity. [Obs.] Drayton. 

NEEDY:  A needle. [Obs.] Shak. 

NEELGHAU:  See Nylghau.  NEEM TREE Neem" tree`. Etym: [Hind. nim.] (Bot.)  An Asiatic name for Melia Azadirachta, and M. Azedarach. See Margosa. 

NEER:  Nearer. [Obs.] Chaucer.  NE'ER Ne'er ( or ), adv.  a contraction of Never.  NE'ER-DO-WELL Ne'er"-do-well`, n.  A person who never does, or fares, well; a good for nothing.  The idle and dissolute ne'er-do-wells of their communities. Harper's Mag. 

NEESE:  To sneeze. [Obs.] [Written also neeze.] 

NEESING:  Sneezing. [Obs.] "By his neesings a light doth shine." Job xli. 18.  NE EXEAT Ne` ex"e*at. Etym: [L. ne exeat regno let him not go out of the kingdom.] (Law)  A writ to restrain a person from leaving the country, or the jurisdiction of the court. The writ was originally applicable to purposes of state, but is now an ordinary process of courts of equity, resorted to for the purpose of obtaining bail, or security to abide a decree. Kent. 

NEF:  The nave of a church. Addison.  NEFAND; NEFANDOUS Ne"fand, Ne*fan"dous, a. Etym: [L. nefandus not to be spoken; ne not + fari to speak.]  Unfit to speak of; unmentionable; impious; execrable. [Obs.] "Nefand adominations." Sheldon. "Nefandous high treason." Cotton Mather. 

NEFARIOUS:  Wicked in the extreme; abominable; iniquitous; atrociously villainous; execrable; detestably vile.  Syn.  -- Iniquitous; detestable; horrible; heinious; atrocious; infamous; impious. See Iniquitous.  -- Ne*fa"ri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Ne*fa"ri*ous*ness, n. 

NEFASCH:  Any fish of the genus Distichodus. Several large species inhabit the Nile. 

NEFAST:  Wicked. [R.] 

NEGATION:  Description or definition by denial, exclusion, or exception; statement of what a thing is not, or has not, from which may be inferred what it is or has. 

NEGATIVE:  Asserting absence of connection between a subject and a predicate; as, a negative proposition.  4. (Photog.)  Of or pertaining to a picture upon glass or other material, in which the lights and shades of the original, and the relations of right and left, are reversed.  5. (Chem.)  Metalloidal; nonmetallic; -- contracted with positive or basic; as, the nitro group is negative.  Note: This word, derived from electro-negative, is now commonly used in a more general sense, when acidiferous is the intended signification. Negative crystal. (a) A cavity in a mineral mass, having the form of a crystal. (b) A crystal which has the power of negative double refraction. See refraction.  -- negative electricity (Elec.), the kind of electricity which is developed upon resin or ebonite when rubbed, or which appears at that pole of a voltaic battery which is connected with the plate most attacked by the exciting liquid; -- formerly called resinous electricity. Opposed to Ant: positive electricity. Formerly, according to Franklin's theory of a single electric fluid, negative electricity was supposed to be electricity in a degree below saturation, or the natural amount for a given body. see Electricity.  -- Negative eyepiece. (Opt.) see under Eyepiece.  -- Negative quantity (Alg.), a quantity preceded by the negative sign, or which stands in the relation indicated by this sign to some other quantity. See Negative sign (below).  -- Negative rotation, right-handed rotation. See Right-handed, 3.  -- Negative sign, the sign -, or minus (opposed in signification to +, or Ant: plus), indicating that the quantity to which it is prefixed is to be subtracted from the preceding quantity, or is to be reckoned from zero or cipher in the opposite direction to that of quanties having the sign plus either expressed or understood; thus, in a - b, b is to be substracted from a, or regarded as opposite to it in value; and -10° on a thermometer means 10° below the zero of the scale. 

NEGATIVE:  A picture upon glass or other material, in which the light portions of the original are represented in some opaque material (usually reduced silver), and the dark portions by the uncovered and transparent or semitransparent ground of the picture.  Note: A negative is chiefly used for producing photographs by means of the sun's light passing through it and acting upon sensitized paper, thus producing on the paper a positive picture.  6. (Elect.)  The negative plate of a voltaic or electrolytic cell. Negative pregnant (Law), a negation which implies an affirmation. 

NEGATIVELY:  The quality or state of being negative. 

NEGATORY:  Expressing denial; belonging to negation; negative. Carlyle. 

NEGINOTH:  Stringed instruments. Dr. W. Smith. To the chief musician on Neginoth. Ps. iv. 9heading). 

NEGLECTEDNESS:  The state of being neglected. 

NEGLECTER:  One who neglects. South. 

NEGLECTFUL:  Full of neglect; heedless; careless; negligent; inattentive; indifferent. Pope. A cold and neglectful countenance. Locke. Though the Romans had no great genius for trade, yet they were not entirely neglectful of it. Arbuthnot. -- Neg*lect"ful*ly, adv.  -- Neg*lect"ful*ness, n. 

NEGLECTINGLY:  Carelessly; heedlessly. Shak. 

NEGLECTION:  The state of being negligent; negligence. [Obs.] Shak. 

NEGLECTIVE:  Neglectful. [R.] "Neglective of their own children." Fuller. 

NEGLIGEE:  An easy, unceremonious attire; undress; also, a kind of easy robe or dressing gown worn by women. 

NEGLIGENCE:  The quality or state of being negligent; lack of due diligence or care; omission of duty; habitual neglect; heedlessness.  2. An act or instance of negligence or carelessness. remarking his beauties, ... I must also point out his negligences and defects. Blair.  3. (Law)  The omission of the care usual under the circumstances, being convertible with the Roman culpa. A specialist is bound to higher skill and diligence in his specialty than one who is not a specialist, and liability for negligence varies acordingly. Contributory negligence. See under Contributory.  Syn.  -- Neglect; inattention; heedlessness; disregard; slight.  -- Negligence, Neglect. These two words are freely interchanged in our older writers; but a distinction has gradually sprung up between them. As now generally used, negligence is the habit, and neglect the act, of leaving things undone or unattended to. We are negligent as a general trait of character; we are guilty of neglect in particular cases, or in reference to individuals who had a right to our attentions. 

NEGLIGENT:  Apt to neglect; customarily neglectful; characterized by negligence; careless; heedless; culpably careless; showing lack of attention; as, disposed in negligent order. "Be thou negligent of fame." Swift. He that thinks he can afford to be negligent is not far from being poor. Rambler.  Syn.  -- Careles; heedless; neglectful; regardless; thoughtless; indifferent; inattentive; remiss. 

NEGLIGENTLY:  In a negligent manner. 

NEGLIGIBLE:  That may neglicted, disregarded, or left out of consideration. Within very negligible limits of error. Sir J. Herschel. 

NEGOCE:  Business; occupation. [Obs.] Bentley. 

NEGOTIABILITY:  The quality of being negotiable or transferable by indorsement. 

NEGOTIABLE:  Capable of being negotiated; transferable by assigment or indorsement to another person; as, a negotiable note or bill of exchange. Negotiable paper, any commercial paper transferable by sale or delivery and indorsement, as bills of exchange, drafts, checks, and promissory notes. 

NEGOTIANT:  A negotiator. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

NEGOTIATOR:  One who negotiates; a person who treats with others, either as principal or agent, in respect to purchase and sale, or public compacts. 

NEGOTIATORY:  Of or pertaining to negotiation. 

NEGOTIATRIX:  A woman who negotiates. Miss Edgeworth. 

NEGOTIOSITY:  The state of being busy; multitude of business. [Obs.] 

NEGOTIOUS:  Very busy; attentive to business; active. [R.] D. Rogers. 

NEGOTIOUSNESS:  The state of being busily occupied; activity. [R.] D. Rogers. 

NEGRESS:  A black woman; a female negro. 

NEGRITA:  A blackish fish (Hypoplectrus nigricans), of the Sea-bass family. It is a native of the West Indies and Florida. 

NEGRITIC:  Of or pertaining to negroes; composed of negroes. Keary. 

NEGRITOS:  A degraded Papuan race, inhabiting Luzon and some of the other east Indian Islands. They resemble negroes, but are smaller in size. They are mostly nomads. 

NEGRO:  A black man; especially, one of a race of black or very dark persons who inhabit the greater part of tropical Africa, and are distinguished by crisped or curly hair, flat noses, and thick protruding lips; also, any black person of unmixed African blood, wherever found. 

NEGRO:  of or pertaining to negroes; black. Negro bug (Zoöl.), a minute black bug common on the raspberry and blackberry. It produced a very disagreeable flavor.  -- negro corn, the Indian millet or durra; -- so called in the West Indies. see Durra. McElrath.  -- Negro fly (Zoöl.), a black dipterous fly (Psila rosæ) which, in the larval state, is injurious to carrots; -- called also carrot fly.  -- Negro head (Com.), Cavendish tobacco. [Cant] McElrath.  -- Negro monkey (Zoöl.), the moor monkey. 

NEGROHEAD:  An inferior commercial variety of India rubber made up into round masses. 

NEGROLOID:  See Negroid. 

NEGUS:  A beverage made of wine, water, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon juice; -- so called, it is said, from its first maker, Colonel Negus. 

NEHILOTH:  A term supposed to mean, perforated wind instruments of music, as pipes or flutes. Ps. v. (heading). 

NEHUSHTAN:  A thing of brass; -- the name under which the Israelites worshiped the brazen serpent made by Moses. 2 Kings xviii. 4.  NEIF; NEIFE Neif, Neife, n. Etym: [OF. neïf, naïf, a born serf, fr. L. nativus born, imparted by birth. See Native.]  A woman born in the state of villeinage; a female serf. Blackstone.  NEIF; NEAF Neif, Neaf, n. Etym: [Icel. hnefi; akin to Dan. næve, Sw. näfve.]  The first. [Obs.] "I kiss thy neif." "Give me your neaf." Shak. 

NEIGH:  The cry of a horse; a whinny. 

NEIGHBOR:  Near to another; adjoining; adjacent; next; neighboring. "The neighbor cities." Jer. l. 40. "The neighbor room." Shak. 

NEIGHBOR:  To dwell in the vicinity; to be a neighbor, or in the neighborhood; to be near. [Obs.] A copse that neighbors by. Shak. 

NEIGHBORING:  Living or being near; adjacent; as, the neighboring nations or countries. 

NEIGHBORLINESS:  The quality or state of being neighborly. 

NEIGHBORLY:  Apropriate to the relation of neighbors; having frequent or familiar intercourse; kind; civil; social; friendly.  -- adv.  In a neigborly manner. Judge if this be neighborly dealing. Arbuthnot. 

NEIGHBORSHIP:  The state of being neighbors. [R.] J. Bailie. 

NEISHOUT:  The mahogany-like wood of the South African tree Pteroxylon utile, the sawdust of which causes violent sneezing (whence the name). Also called sneezewood. 

NEITHER:  Not either; not the one or the other. Which of them shall I take Both one or neither Neither can be enjoyed, If both remain alive. Shak. He neither loves, Nor either cares for him. Shak. 

NEITHER:  not either; generally used to introduce the first of two or more coördinate clauses of which those that follow begin with nor. Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king. 1 Kings xxii. 31. Hadst thou been firm and fixed in thy dissent, Neither had I transgressed, nor thou with me. Milton. When she put it on, she made me vow That I should neither sell, nor give, nor lose it. Shak.  Note: Neither was formerly often used where we now use nor. "For neither circumcision, neither uncircumcision is anything at all." Tyndale. "Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it." Gen. iii. 3. Neither is sometimes used colloquially at the end of a clause to enforce a foregoing negative (nor, not, no). "He is very tall, but not too tall neither." Addison. " `I care not for his thrust' `No, nor I neither.'" Shak. Not so neither, by no means. [Obs.] Shak. 

NELUMBO:  A genus of great water lilies. The North American species is Nelumbo lutea, the Asiatic is the sacred lotus, N. speciosa. [Written also Nelumbium.] 

NEMALINE:  Having the form of threads; fibrous. 

NEMALITE:  A fibrous variety of brucite. 

NEMATELMIA:  Same as Nemathelminthes. 

NEMATHECIUM:  A peculiar kind of fructification on certain red algæ, consisting of an external mass of filaments at length separating into tetraspores.  NEMATHELMINTHES; NEMATELMINTHES Nem`a*thel*min"thes, Nem`a*tel*min"thes, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Nemato-, and Helminthes.] (Zoöl.)  An order of helminths, including the Nematoidea and Gordiacea; the roundworms. [Written also Nematelminthea.]  NEMATO- Nem"a*to-  . A combining from Gr. nhema, nhematos, a thread. 

NEMATOBLAST:  A spermatocyte or spermoblast. 

NEMATOCALYX:  One of a peculiar kind of cups, or calicles, found upon hydroids of the family Plumularidæ. They contain nematocysts. See Plumularia. 

NEMATOCERA:  A suborder of dipterous insects, having long antennæ, as the mosquito, gnat, and crane fly; -- called also Nemocera. 

NEMATOCYST:  A lasso cell, or thread cell. See Lasso cell, under Lasso. 

NEMATODE:  Same as Nematoid. 

NEMATOGENE:  One of the dimorphic forms of the species of Dicyemata, which produced vermiform embryos; -- opposed to Ant: rhombogene. 

NEMATOGNATH:  one of the Nematognathi. 

NEMATOGNATHI:  An order of fishes having barbels on the jaws. It includes the catfishes, or siluroids. See Siluroid. 

NEMATOID:  of or pertaining to the Nematoidea.  -- n.  One of the Nematoidea. see Illustration in Appendix. 

NEMATOIDEA:  An order of worms, having a long, round, and generally smooth body; the roundworms. they are mostly parasites. Called also Nematodea, and Nematoda.  Note: The trichina, stomach worm, and pinworm of man belong to this group. See also Vinegar eel, under Vinegar, and Gapeworm. 

NEMATOIDEAN:  Nematoid. 

NEMATOPHORA:  Same as Cælenterata. 

NEMEAN:  Of or pertaining to Nemea, in Argolis, where the ancient Greeks celebrated games, and Hercules killed a lion. 

NEMERTEAN:  Of or pertaining to the Nemertina.  -- n.  One of the Nemertina. 

NEMERTES:  A genus of nemertina. 

NEMERTIAN:  Nemertean. 

NEMERTID:  Nemertean. 

NEMERTIDA:  Nemertina. 

NEMERTINA:  An order of helminths usually having a long, slender, smooth, often bright-colored body, covered with minute vibrating cilia; -- called also Nemertea, Nemertida, and Rhynchocæla.  Note: The mouth is beneath the head, and the straight intestine at the posterior and. They have a very singular long tubular proboscis, which can be everted from a pore in the front of the head. Their nervous system and blood vessels are well developed. Some of the species become over one hundred feet long. They are mostly marine and seldom parasitic; a few inhabit fresh water. the two principal divisions are Anopla and Enopla. 

NEMESIS:  The goddess of retribution or vengeance; hence, retributive justice personified; divine vengeance. This is that ancient doctrine of nemesis who keeps watch in the universe, and lets no offense go unchastised. Emerson. 

NEMOPHILIST:  One who is fond of forest or forest scenery; a haunter of the woods. [R.] 

NEMOPHILY:  Fondness for forest scenery; love of the woods. [R.] 

NEMORAL:  Of or pertaining to a wood or grove. [R.] 

NEMOROUS:  Woody. [R.] Paradise itself was but a kind of nemorous temple. Evelyn. 

NEMPNE:  To name or call. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NEMPT:  of Nempne. Called; named. [Obs.] 

NEMS:  The ichneumon. 

NENIA:  A funeral song; an elegy. 

NENUPHAR:  The great white water lily of Europe; the Nymphæa alba.  NEO- Ne"o- (. Etym: [Gr. New.]  A prefix meaning new, recent, late; and in chemistry designating specifically that variety of metameric hydrocarbons which, when the name was applied, had been recently classified, and in which at least one carbon atom in connected directly with four other carbon atoms; -- contrasted with normal and iso-; as, neopentane; the neoparaffins. Also used adjectively. 

NEOCARIDA:  The modern, or true, Crustacea, as distinguished from the Merostomata. 

NEOCENE:  More recent than the Eocene, that is, including both the Miocene and Pliocene divisions of the Tertiary.  NEO-CHRISTIANITY Ne`o-Chris*tian"i*ty ( or ), n. Etym: [Neo- + Christianity.]  Rationalism. 

NEOCLASSIC:  Belonging to, or designating, the modern revival of classical, esp. Greco-Roman, taste and manner of work in architecture, etc.  NEOCLASSIC ARCHITECTURE Neoclassic architecture.  All that architecture which, since the beginning of the Italian Renaissance, about 1420, has been designed with deliberate imitation of Greco-Roman buildings. 

NEOCOMIAN:  A term applied to the lowest deposits of the Cretaceous or chalk formation of Europe, being the lower greensand. 

NEOCOMIAN:  Of or pertaining to the lower greensand. 

NEOCOSMIC:  of or pertaining to the universe in its present state; specifically, pertaining to the races of men known to history. 

NEOCRACY:  Government by new or inexperienced hands; upstart rule; raw or untried officials. 

NEOCRITICISM:  The form of Neo-Kantianism developed by French idealists, following C. Renouvier.  It rejects the noumena of Kant, restricting knowledge to phenomena as constituted by a priori categories. 

NEODAMODE:  In ancient Sparta, one of those Helots who were freed by the state in reward for military service. Milford.  NEO-DARWINISM Ne`o-Dar"win*ism, n.  The theory which holds natural selection, as explained by Darwin, to be the chief factor in the evolution of plants and animals, and denies the inheritance of acquired characters; -- esp. opposed to Neo-Lamarckism. Weismannism is an example of extreme Neo- Darwinism. -- Ne`o-Dar*win"i*an, a. & n. 

NEODYMIUM:  An elementary substance which forms one of the constituents of didymium. Symbol Nd. Atomic weight 140.8. 

NEOGAEAN:  Of or pertaining to the New World, or Western Hemisphere. 

NEOGAMIST:  A person recently married. 

NEOGEN:  An alloy resembling silver, and consisting chiefly of copper, zinc, and nickel, with small proportions of tin, aluminium, and bismuth. Ure. 

NEOGRAMMARIAN:  One of a group of philologists who apply phonetic laws more widely and strictly than was formerly done, and who maintain that these laws admit of no real exceptions. --Ne`o*gram*mat"ic*al (#), a. 

NEOGRAPHY:  A new method or system of writing.  NEO-GREEK Ne`o-Greek", n.  A member of a body of French painters (F. les néo-Grecs) of the middle 19th century. The term is rather one applied by outsiders to certain artists of grave and refined style, such as Hamon and Aubert, than a name adopted by the artists themselves.  NEO-HEBRAIC Neo-Hebraic, n.  The modern Hebrew language.  NEO-HEBRAIC Ne`o-He*bra"ic, a.  Of, pert. to, or designating, modern Hebrew, or Hebrew of later date than the Biblical.  NEO-HEGELIAN Neo-Hegelian, n.  An adherent of Neo-Hegelianism.  NEO-HEGELIAN Ne`o-He*ge"li*an, a.  Of or pertaining to Neo-Hegelianism.  NEO-HEGELIANISM Ne`o-He*ge"li*an*ism, n.  The philosophy of a school of British and American idealists who follow Hegel in dialectical or logical method and in the general outcome of their doctrine. The founders and leaders of Neo- Hegelianism include: in England, T. H. Green (1836-1882); in Scotland, J. (1820-98) and E. (1835-1908) Caird; in the United States, W. T. Harris (1835-1909) and Josiah Royce (1855- -).  NEO-HELLENIC Ne`o-Hel*len"ic, n.  Same as Romaic.  NEO-HELLENISM Ne`o-Hel"len*ism, n.  Hellenism as surviving or revival in modern times; the practice or pursuit of ancient Greek ideals in modern life, art, or literature, as in the Renaissance.  NEOIMPRESSIONISM; POINTILLISM Ne`o*im*pres"sion*ism, n. (Painting)  A theory or practice which is a further development, on more rigorously scientific lines, of the theory and practice of Impressionism, originated by George Seurat (1859-91), and carried on by Paul Signac (1863- -) and others. Its method is marked by the laying of pure primary colors in minute dots upon a white ground, any given line being produced by a variation in the proportionate quantity of the primary colors employed. This method is also known as Pointillism (stippling).  NEO-KANTIAN Neo-Kantian, n.  An adherent of Neo-Kantianism.  NEO-KANTIAN Ne`o-Kant"i*an, a.  Of or pertaining to Neo-Kantianism.  NEO-KANTIANISM Ne`o-Kant"i*an*ism, n.  The philosophy of modern thinkers who follow Kant in his general theory of knowledge, esp. of a group of German philosophers including F. A. Lange, H. Cohen, Paul Natorp, and others.  NEO-LAMARCKISM Ne`o-La*marck"ism, n. (Biol.)  Lamarckism as revived, modified, and expounded by recent biologists, esp. as maintaining that the offspring inherits characters acquired by the parent from change of environment, use or disuse of parts, etc.; -- opposed of Neo-Darwinism (which see, above). -- Ne`o-La*marck"i*an, a. & n.  NEO-LATIN Ne`o-Lat"in, a. Etym: [Neo- + Latin.]  Applied to the Romance languages, as being mostly of Latin origin. 

NEOLITHIC:  Of or pertaining to, or designating, an era characterized by late remains in stone. The Neolithic era includes the latter half of the "Stone age;" the human relics which belong to it are associated with the remains of animals not yet extinct. The kitchen middens of Denmark, the lake dwellings of Switzerland, and the stockaded islands, or "crannogs," of the British Isles, belong to this era. Lubbock. 

NEOLOGIAN:  Neologic; neological. 

NEOLOGIAN:  A neologist. 

NEOLOGIANISM:  Neologism.  NEOLOGIC; NEOLOGICAL Ne`o*log"ic, Ne`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. néologique.]  Of or pertaining to neology; employing new words; of the nature of, or containing, new words or new doctrines. A genteel neological dictionary. Chesterfield. 

NEOLOGICALLY:  , adv. In a neological manner. 

NEOLOGIST:  of or pertaining to neology; neological. 

NEOLOGIZATION:  The act or process of neologizing. 

NEOLOGY:  Designating, or pertaining to, a group of modern economists who hold to the Malthusianism doctrine that permanent betterment of the general standard of living is impossible without decrease of competition by limitation of the number of births. -- Ne`o- Mal*thu"sian, Ne`o-Mal*thu"sian*ism, n. 

NEOMENIA:  The time of the new moon; the beginning of the month in the lunar calendar. 

NEOMENOIDEA:  A division of vermiform gastropod mollusks, without a shell, belonging to the Isopleura. 

NEOMORPH:  A structure, part, or organ developed independently, that is, not derived from a similar structure, part, or organ, in a pre existing form. 

NEONISM:  Neologism. 

NEONOMIAN:  One who advocates adheres to new laws; esp. one who holds or believes that the gospel is a new law. 

NEONOMIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Neonomians, or in accordance with their doctrines. 

NEONOMIANISM:  The doctrines or belief of the neonomians. 

NEOPAGANISM:  Revived or new paganism. 

NEOPLASIA:  Growth or development of new material; neoplasty. 

NEOPLASM:  A new formation or tissue, the product of morbid action. 

NEOPLASTIC:  of or pertaining to neoplasty, or neoplasia. 

NEOPLASTY:  Restoration of a part by granulation, adhesive inflammation, or autoplasty. 

NEOPLATONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Neoplatonism or the Neoplatonists. 

NEOPLATONICIAN:  A neoplatonist. 

NEOPLATONISM:  A pantheistic eclectic school of philosophy, of which Plotinus was the chief (A. D. 205-270), and which sought to reconcile the Platonic and Aristotelian systems with Oriental theosophy. It tended to mysticism and theurgy, and was the last product of Greek philosophy. 

NEOPLATONIST:  One who held to Neoplatonism; a member of the Neoplatonic school. 

NEORAMA:  A panorama of the interior of a building, seen from within.  NEO-SCHOLASTIC Ne`o-Scho*las"tic, a.  Of or pert. to Neo-Scholasticism.  NEO-SCHOLASTICISM Ne`o-Scho*las"ti*cism, n.  The modern revival of the Scholastic philosophy, esp. of that of Thomas Aquinas, with critical revision to suit the exigencies of the general advance in learning. The Neo-Scholastic movement received a great impetus from Leo XIII.'s interest in it. 

NEOSSINE:  The substance constituting the edible bird's nest. 

NEOSSOLOGY:  The study of young birds.  NEOTERIC; NEOTERICAL Ne`o*ter"ic, Ne`o*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. neotericus, gr.  Recent in origin; modern; new. "Our neoteric verbs." Fitzed. Hall. Some being ancient, others neoterical. Bacon. 

NEOTERIC:  One of modern times; a modern. 

NEOTERICALLY:  Recently; newly. 

NEOTERISM:  An innovation or novelty; a neoteric word or phrase. 

NEOTERIST:  One ho introduces new word Fitzed Hall. 

NEOTERIZE:  To innovate; to coin or introduce new words. Freely as we of the nineteenth century neoterize. fized. Hall. 

NEOTROPICAL:  Belonging to, or designating, a region of the earth's surface which comprises most of South America, the Antilles, and tropical North America. 

NEOZOIC:  More recent than the Paleozoic, -- that is, including the Mesozoic and Cenozoic. 

NEP:  Catnip. 

NEPA:  A genus of aquatic hemipterus insects. The species feed upon other insects and are noted for their voracity; -- called also scorpion bug and water scorpion. 

NEPAULESE:  Of or pertaining to Nepaul, a kingdom in Northern Hindostan.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or natives of Nepaul. 

NEPENTHE:  A drug used by the ancients to give relief from pain and sorrow; -- by some supposed to have been opium or hasheesh. Hence, anything soothing and comforting. Lulled with the sweet nepenthe of a court. Pope. Quaff, O quaff this kind nepenthe. Poe. 

NEPENTHES:  A genus of climbing plants found in India, Malaya, etc., which have the leaves prolonged into a kind of stout tendril terminating in a pitcherlike appendage, whence the plants are often called pitcher plants and monkey-cups. There are about thirty species, of which the best known is Nepenthes distillatoria. See Pitcher plant. 

NEPETA:  A genus of labiate plants, including the catnip and ground ivy. 

NEPHALISM:  Total abstinence from spirituous liquor. 

NEPHALIST:  One who advocates or practices nephalism.  NEPHELINE; NEPHELITE Neph"e*line, Neph"e*lite, n. Etym: [gr. néphéline. Cf. Nebula.] (Min.)  A mineral occuring at Vesuvius, in glassy agonal crystals; also elsewhere, in grayish or greenish masses having a greasy luster, as the variety elæolite. It is a silicate of aluminia, soda, and potash. 

NEPHELODOMETER:  An instrument for reckoning the distances or velocities of clouds. 

NEPHELOMETER:  An instrument for measuring or registering the amount of cloudiness. 

NEPHILIM:  Giants. Gen. vi. 4. Num. xiii. 33. 

NEPHOSCOPE:  An instrument for observing the clouds and their velocity.  NEPHRALGIA; NEPHRALGY Ne*phral"gi*a, Ne*phral"gy, n. Etym: [NL. nephralgia, fr. Gr. néphralgie.] (Med.)  Neuralgia of the kidneys; a disease characterized by pain in the region of the kidneys without any structural lesion of the latter. Quain. 

NEPHRIDIAL:  of or pertaining to a nephridium. 

NEPHRIDIUM:  A segmental tubule; one of the tubules of the primitive urinogenital organs; a segmental organ. See Illust. under Loeven's larva. 

NEPHRITE:  A hard compact mineral, of a dark green color, formerly worn as a remedy for diseases of the kidneys, whence its name; kidney stone; a kind of jade. See Jade.  NEPHRITIC; NEPHRITICAL Ne*phrit"ic, Ne*phrit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. nephriticus, gr. néphrétique. See Nephritis.]  1. Of or pertaining to the kidneys or urinary organs; renal; as, a nephritic disease.  2. (Med.) (a) Affected with a disease of the kidneys; as, a nephritic patient. (b) Relieving disorders of the kidneys; affecting the kidneys; as, a nephritic medicine. Nephritic stone (Min.), nephrite; jade. See Nephrite. 

NEPHRITIC:  A medicine adapted to relieve or cure disease of the kidneys. 

NEPHRITIS:  An inflammation of the kidneys. 

NEPHROLITHIC:  of or pertaining to gravel, or renal calculi. Dunglison. 

NEPHROLOGY:  A treatise on, or the science which treats of, the kidneys, and their structure and functions. 

NEPHROSTOME:  The funnelshaped opening of a nephridium into the body cavity. 

NEPHROTOMY:  Extraction of stone from the kidney by cutting.  NE PLUS ULTRA Ne plus ul"tra. [L., no further; ne no, not + plus more + ultra beyond.]  1. The uttermost point to which one can go or attain; hence, the summit of achievement; the highest point or degree; the acme.  2.  A prohibition against proceeding further; an insuperable obstacle or limiting condition. [Obs. or R.] 

NEPOTAL:  Of or relating to a nephew. 

NEPOTIC:  Of or pertaining to npotism. The nepotic ambition of the ruling pontiff. Milman. 

NEPOTISM:  Undue attachment to relations; favoritism shown to members of one's family; bestowal of patronage in consideration of relationship, rather than of merit or of legal claim. From nepotism Alexander V. was safe; for he was without kindred or relatives. But there was another perhaps more fatal nepotism, which turned the tide of popularity against him -- the nepotism of his order. Milman. 

NEPOTIST:  One who practices nepotism. 

NEPTUNE:  The son of Saturn and Ops, the god of the waters, especially of the sea. He is represented as bearing a trident for a scepter.  2. (Astron.)  The remotest known planet of our system, discovered -- as a result of the computations of Leverrier, of Paris -- by Galle, of Berlin, September 23, 1846. Its mean distance from the sun is about 2,775,000,000 miles, and its period of revolution is about 164,78 years. Neptune powder, an explosive containing nitroglycerin, -- used in blasting.  -- Neptune's cup (Zoöl.), a very large, cup-shaped, marine sponge (Thalassema Neptuni). 

NEPTUNIAN:  Formed by water or aqueous solution; as, Neptunian rocks. Neptunian races (Ethnol.), the Malay and Polynesian races.  -- Neptunian theory (Geol.), the theory of Werner, which referred the formation of all rocks and strata to the agency of water; -- opposed to the Plutonic theory.  NEPTUNIAN; NEPTUNIST Nep*tu"ni*an, Nep"tu*nist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. neptinien, neptuniste.] (Geol.)  One who adopts the neptunian theory. 

NEPTUNICENTRIC:  As seen from Neptune, or having Neptune as a center; as, Neptunicentric longitude or force. 

NEPTUNIUM:  A new metallic element, of doubtful genuineness and uncertain indentification, said to exist in certain minerals, as columbite. Hermann. 

NER:  nearer. [Obs.] See Nerre. 

NERE:  Were not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NEREID:  A sea nymph, one of the daughters of Nereus, who were attendants upon Neptune, and were represented as riding on sea horses, sometimes with the human form entire, and sometimes with the tail of a fish.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any species of Nereis. The word is sometimes used for similar annelids of other families. 

NEREIDIAN:  Any annelid resembling Nereis, or of the family Lycoridæ or allied families. 

NEREIS:  A Nereid. See Nereid.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus, including numerous species, of marine chætopod annelids, having a well-formed head, with two pairs of eyes, antennæ, four pairs of tentacles, and a protrusile pharynx, armed with a pair of hooked jaws. 

NEREITES:  Fossil tracks of annelids. 

NEREOCYSTIS:  A genus of gigantic seaweeds.  Note: Nereocystis Lutkeana, of the North Pacific, has a stem many fathoms long, terminating in a great vesicle, which is crowned with a tuft of long leaves. The stem is used by the Alaskans for fishing lines. 

NERFLING:  The id. 

NERITA:  A genus of marine gastropods, mostly natives of warm climates. 

NERITE:  Any mollusk of the genus Nerita. 

NERITINA:  A genus including numerous species of shells resembling Nerita in form. They mostly inhabit brackish water, and are often delicately tinted. 

NERKA:  The most important salmon of Alaska (Oncorhinchus nerka), ascending in spring most rivers and lakes from Alaska to Oregon, Washington, and Idaho; --called also red salmon, redfish, blueback, and sawqui. 

NERO:  A Roman emperor notorius for debauchery and barbarous cruelty; hence, any profligate and cruel ruler or merciless tyrant.  -- Ne*ro"ni*an, a.  NERO-ANTICO Ne`ro-an*ti"co, n. [It.; nero black + antico ancient.] (Art)  A beautiful black marble found in fragments among Roman ruins, and usually thought to have come from ancient Laconia. 

NEROLI:  An essential oil obtained by distillation from the flowers of the orange. It has a strong odor, and is used in perfumery, etc. Neroli camphor (Chem.), a white crystalline waxy substance, tasteless and odorless, obtained from beroli oil; -- called also auradin. 

NERRE:  Nearer. [Obs.] [Written also neer, ner.] Chaucer. Never the neer, never the nearer; no nearer. [Obs.] 

NERVATE:  Nerved. 

NERVATION:  The arrangement of nerves and veins, especially those of leaves; neuration. The outlines of the fronds of ferns, and their nervation, are frail characters if employed alone for the determination of existing genera. J. D. Hooker. 

NERVE:  One of the whitish and elastic bundles of fibers, with the accompanying tissues, which transmit nervous impulses between nerve centers and various parts of the animal body.  Note: An ordinary nerve is made up of several bundles of nerve fibers, each bundle inclosed in a special sheath (the perineurium) and all bound together in a connective tissue sheath and framework (the epineurium) containing blood vessels and lymphatics.  2. A sinew or a tendon. Pope.  3. Physical force or steadiness; muscular power and control; constitutional vigor. he led me on to mightiest deeds, Above the nerve of mortal arm. Milton.  4. Steadiness and firmness of mind; self-command in personal danger, or under suffering; unshaken courage and endurance; coolness; pluck; resolution.  5. Audacity; assurance. [Slang]  6. (Bot.)  One of the principal fibrovascular bundles or ribs of a leaf, especially when these extend straight from the base or the midrib of the leaf.  7. (Zoöl.)  One of the nervures, or veins, in the wings of insects. Nerve cell (Anat.), one of the nucleated cells with which nerve fibers are connected; a ganglion cell.  -- Nerve fiber (Anat.), one of the fibers of which nerves are made up. These fibers are either medullated or nonmedullated. in both kinds the essential part is the translucent threadlike axis cylinder which is continuous the whole length of the fiber.  -- Nerve stretching (Med.), the operation of stretching a nerve in order to remedy diseases such as tetanus, which are supposed to be influenced by the condition of the nerve or its connections. 

NERVE:  To give strength or vigor to; to supply with force; as, fear nerved his arm. 

NERVED:  Having nerves, or simple and parallel ribs or veins. Gray. 

NERVELESSNESS:  The state of being nerveless.  NERVE-SHAKEN Nerve"-shak`en, a.  Affected by a tremor, or by a nervous disease; weakened; overcome by some violent influence or sensation; shoked. 

NERVIMOTION:  The movement caused in the sensory organs by external agents and transmitted to the muscles by the nerves. Dunglison. 

NERVIMOTOR:  Any agent capable of causing nervimotion. Dunglison. 

NERVINE:  Having the quality of acting upon or affecting the nerves; quieting nervous excitement.  -- n.  A nervine agent. 

NERVOMUSCULAR:  Of or pertaining to both nerves and muscles; of the nature of nerves and muscles; as, nervomuscular energy. 

NERVOSE:  Same as Nerved. 

NERVOSITY:  Nervousness. [R.] 

NERVOUSLY:  In a nervous manner. 

NERVOUSNESS:  State or quality of being nervous. 

NERVURE:  One of the nerves of leaves.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the chitinous supports, or veins, in the wings of incests. 

NERVY:  Strong; sinewy. "His nervy knees." Keats. 

NESCIENCE:  Want of knowledge; ignorance; agnosticism. God fetched it about for me, in that absence and nescience of mine. Bp. Hall. 

NESE:  Nose. [Obs.] Piers plowman. 

NESH:  Soft; tender; delicate. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

NESS:  A promontory; a cape; a headland. Hakluyt.  Note: Ness is frequently used as a suffix in the names of places and promontories; as, Sheerness.  -NESS -ness (. Etym: [AS. -ness, -nyss, -nys; akin to OS. -nissi, nussi, D. -nis, OHG. -nissa, -nassi, -nussi, G. -nis, -niss, Goth. -inasus.]  A suffix used to form abstract nouns expressive of quality or state; as, goodness, greatness. 

NESSLERIZE:  To treat or test, as a liquid, with a solution of mercuric iodide in potassium iodide and potassium hydroxide, which is called Nessler's solution or Nessler's test, and is used to detect the presence of ammonia. 

NEST:  An aggregated mass of any ore or mineral, in an isolated state, within a rock.  5. A collection of boxes, cases, or the like, of graduated size, each put within the one next larger.  6. (Mech.)  A compact group of pulleys, gears, springs, etc., working together or collectively. Nest egg, an egg left in the nest to prevent the hen from forsaking it, and to induce her to lay more in the same place; hence, figuratively, something laid up as the beginning of a fund or collection. Hudibras. 

NEST:  To build and occupy a nest. The king of birds nested within his leaves. Howell. 

NEST:  To put into a nest; to form a nest for. From him who nested himself into the chief power. South. 

NESTFUL:  As much or many as will fill a nest. 

NESTLE:  To house, as in a nest.  2. To cherish, as a bird her young. 

NESTLING:  Newly hatched; being yet in the nest. 

NESTOR:  A genus of parrots with gray heads. of New Zeland and papua, allied to the cockatoos. See Kaka. 

NESTORIAN:  An adherent of Nestorius, patriarch of Constantinople to the fifth century, who has condemned as a heretic for maintaining that the divine and the human natures were not merged into one nature in Christ (who was God in man), and, hence, that it was improper to call Mary the mother of Christ; also, one of the sect established by the followers of Nestorius in Persia, india, and other Oriental countries, and still in existence. opposed to Ant: Eutychian. 

NESTORIANISM:  The doctrines of the nestorian Christians, or of Nestorius. 

NET:  A figure made up of a large number of straight lines or curves, which are connected at certain points and related to each other by some specified law. 

NET:  To form network or netting; to knit. 

NET:  To produce or gain as clear profit; as, he netted a thousand dollars by the operation.  NE TEMERE Ne Te"me*re. [So named from L. ne not + temere rashly, the first two words in the decree.] (R. C. Ch.)  A decree of the Congregation of the Council declaring invalid [so far as the laws of the Roman Catholic Church are concerned] any marriage of a Roman Catholic, or of a person who has ever been a Roman Catholic, if not contracted before a duty qualified priest (or the bishop of the diocese) and at least two witnesses. The decree was issued Aug. 2, 1907, and took effect on Easter Apr. 19, 1908. The decree by its terms does not affect mixed marriages (those between Roman Catholics and persons of another faith) in Germany. 

NETFISH:  An astrophyton. 

NETHER:  Situated down or below; lying beneath, or in the lower part; having a lower position; belonging to the region below; lower; under; -- opposed to upper. 'Twixt upper, nether, and surrounding fires. Milton. This darksome nether world her light Doth dim with horror and deformity. Spenser. All my nether shape thus grew transformed. Milton. 

NETHERMORE:  Lower, nether. [Obs.] Holland. 

NETHERMOST:  Lowest; as, the nethermost abyss. Milton. 

NETHINIM:  Servants of the priests and Levites in the menial services about the tabernacle and temple. 

NETIFY:  To render neat; to clean; to put in order. [R.] Chapman. 

NETSUKE:  In Japanese costume and decorative art, a small object carved in wood, ivory, bone, or horn, or wrought in metal, and pierced with holes for cords by which it is connected, for convenience, with the inro, the smoking pouch (tabako-ire), and similar objects carried in the girdle. It is now much used on purses sold in Europe and America. 

NETTING:  A network of ropes used for various purposes, as for holding the hammocks when not in use, also for stowing sails, and for hoisting from the gunwale to the rigging to hinder an enemy from boarding. Totten. Netting needle, a kind of slender shuttle used in netting. See Needle, n., 3. 

NETTING:  Urine. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

NETTLE:  A plant of the genus Urtica, covered with minute sharp hairs containing a poison that produces a stinging sensation. Urtica gracitis is common in the Northern, and U. chamædryoides in the Southern, United States. the common European species, U. urens and U. dioica, are also found in the Eastern united States. U. pilulifera is the Roman nettle of England.  Note: The term nettle has been given to many plants related to, or to some way resembling, the true nettle; as: Australian nettle, a stinging tree or shrub of the genus Laportea (as L. gigas and L. moroides); -- also called nettle tree.  -- Bee nettle, Hemp nettle, a species of Galeopsis. See under Hemp.  -- Blind nettle, Dead nettle, a harmless species of Lamium.  -- False nettle (Bæhmeria cylindrica), a plant common in the United States, and related to the true nettles.  -- Hedge nettle, a species of Stachys. See under Hedge.  -- Horse nettle (Solanum Carolinense). See under Horse.  -- nettle tree. (a) Same as Hackberry. (b) See Australian nettle (above).  -- Spurge nettle, a stinging American herb of the Spurge family (Jatropha urens).  -- Wood nettle, a plant (Laportea Canadensis) which stings severely, and is related to the true nettles. Nettle cloth, a kind of thick cotton stuff, japanned, and used as a substitute for leather for various purposes.  -- Nettle rash (Med.), an eruptive disease resembling the effects of whipping with nettles.  -- Sea nettle (Zoöl.), a medusa. 

NETTLE:  To fret or sting; to irritate or vex; to cause to experience sensations of displeasure or uneasiness not amounting to violent anger. The princes were so nettled at the scandal of this affront, that every man took it to himself. L'Estrange. 

NETTLEBIRD:  the European whitethroat. [Prov. Eng.] 

NETTLER:  One who nettles. [R.] Milton. 

NETTLING:  Stinging; irritating. Nettling cell (Zoöl.), a lasso cell. See under Lasso. 

NETTY:  Like a net, or network; netted. [R.]  NET-VEINED Net"-veined`, a.  Having veins, or nerves, reticulated or netted; as, a net- veined wing or leaf. 

NEUFCHATEL:  A kind of soft sweet-milk cheese; -- so called from Neufchâtel- en-Bray in France. 

NEURAD:  Toward the neural side; -- opposed to hæmad. 

NEURAL:  relating to the nerves or nervous system; taining to, situated in the region of, or on the side with, the neural, or cerebro-spinal, axis; -- opposed to hemal. As applied to vertebrates, neural is the same as dorsal; as applied to invertebrates it is usually the same as ventral. Cf. Hemal. Neural arch (Anat.), the cartilaginous or bony arch on the dorsal side of the centrum of the vertebra in a segment of the spinal skeleton, usually inclosing a segment of the spinal cord. 

NEURALGIA:  A disease, the chief symptom of which is a very acute pain, exacerbating or intermitting, which follows the course of a nervous branch, extends to its ramifications, and seems therefore to be seated in the nerve. It seems to be independent of any structural lesion. Dunglison. 

NEURALGIC:  of or pertaining to, or having the character of, neuralgia; as, a neuralgic headache. 

NEURALGY:  Neuralgia. 

NEURAPOPHYSIAL:  of or pertaining to a neurapophysis. 

NEURASTHENIA:  A condition of nervous debility supposed to be dependent upon impairment in the functions of the spinal cord. 

NEURATION:  The arrangement or distribution of nerves, as in the leaves of a plant or the wings of an insect; nervation. 

NEURAXIS:  See Axis cylinder, under Axis. 

NEURENTERIC:  Of or pertaining to both the neuron and the enteron; as, the neurenteric canal, which, in embroys of many vertebrates, connects the medullary tube and the primitive intestine. See Illust. of Ectoderm. 

NEURIDIN:  a nontoxic base, C5H14N2, found in the putrescent matters of flesh, fish, decaying cheese, etc. 

NEURILITY:  The special properties and functions of the nerves; that capacity for transmitting a stimulus which belongs to nerves. G. H. Lewes. 

NEURINE:  A poisonous organic base (a ptomaine) formed in the decomposition of protagon with boiling baryta water, and in the putrefraction of proteid matter. It was for a long time considered identical with choline, a crystalline body originally obtained from bile. Chemically, however, choline is oxyethyl-trimethyl-ammonium hydroxide, while neurine is vinyl-trimethyl-ammonium hydroxide. [Written also neurin.] 

NEURISM:  Nerve force. See Vital force, under Vital. 

NEURITIS:  Inflammation of a nerve.  NEURO- Neu"ro- (. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)  A combining denoting a nerve, of or pertaining to a nerve or the nervous system.  NEURO-CENTRAL Neu`ro-cen"tral, a. Etym: [Neuro- + central.] (Anat.)  Between the neural arch and the centrum of a vertebra; as, the neurocentral suture. Huxley.  NEUROCHORD; NEUROCHORDAL Neu"ro*chord, n., Neu`ro*chor"dal (, a. (Zoöl.)  See Neurocord. 

NEUROCITY:  Nerve force.  NEUROCOELE; NEUROCELE Neu"ro*coele, Neu"ro*cele, n. Etym: [Neuro- + Ge. (Anat.)  The central canal and ventricles of the spinal cord and brain; the myelencephalic cavity. 

NEUROCORD:  A cordlike organ composed of elastic fibers situated above the ventral nervous cord of annelids, like the earthworm.  -- Neu`ro*cor"dal, a.  NEURO-EPIDERMAL Neu`ro-ep`i*der"mal, a. Etym: [Neuro- + epidermal.] (Anat.)  Pertaining to, or giving rise to, the central nervous system and epiderms; as, the neuroepidermal, or epiblastic, layer of the blastoderm. 

NEUROGLIA:  The delicate connective tissue framework which supports the nervous matter and blood vessels of the brain and spinal cord. 

NEUROGRAPHY:  A description of the nerves. Dunglison. 

NEUROKERATIN:  A substance, resembling keratin, present in nerve tissue, as in the sheath of the axis cylinder of medullated nerve fibers. Like keratin it resists the action of most chemical agents, and by decomposition with sulphuric acid yields leucin and tyrosin. 

NEUROLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to neurolgy. 

NEUROLOGIST:  One who is versed in neurology; also, one skilled in the treatment of nervous diseases. 

NEUROLOGY:  The branch of science which treats of the nervous system. 

NEUROMA:  A tumor developed on, or connected with, a nerve, esp. one consisting of new-formed nerve fibers. 

NEUROMERE:  A metameric segment of the cerebro-spinal nervous system. 

NEUROMUSCULAR:  Nervomuscular. 

NEURON:  The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis; myelencephalon. B. G. Wilder. 

NEUROPATHIC:  Of or pertaining to neuropathy; of the nature of, or suffering from, nervous disease. 

NEUROPATHY:  An affection of the nervous system or of a nerve. 

NEUROPOD:  A neuropodous animal. G. Rolleston. 

NEUROPODIUM:  The ventral lobe or branch of a parapodium. 

NEUROPODOUS:  Having the limbs on, or directed toward, the neural side, as in most invertebrates; -- opposed to Ant: hæmapodous. G. Rolleston. 

NEUROPORE:  An opening at either end of the embryonic neural canal. 

NEUROPTER:  One of the Neuroptera. 

NEUROPTERA:  An order of hexapod insects having two pairs of large, membranous, net-veined wings. The mouth organs are adapted for chewing. They feed upon other insects, and undergo a complete metamorphosis. The ant-lion, hellgamite, and lacewing fly are examples. Formerly, the name was given to a much more extensive group, including the true Neuroptera and the Pseudoneuroptera. 

NEUROPTERAL:  Of or pertaining to the Neuroptera. 

NEUROPTERAN:  A neuropter. 

NEUROPTERIS:  An extensive genus of fossil ferns, of which species have been found from the Devonian to the Triassic formation. 

NEUROPTEROUS:  Neuropteral. 

NEUROSENSIFEROUS:  Pertaining to, or forming, both nerves and sense organs. 

NEUROSIS:  A functional nervous affection or disease, that is, a disease of the nerves without any appreciable change of nerve structure. 

NEUROSKELETAL:  Of or pertaining to the neuroskeleton. [R.] Owen. 

NEUROSKELETON:  The deep-seated parts of the vertebrate skeleton which are relation with the nervous axis and locomation. Owen. 

NEUROSPAST:  A puppet. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

NEUROTIC:  Any toxic agent whose action is mainly directed to the great nerve centers.  Note: Neurotic as a class include all those poisons whose mains action is upon the brain and spinal cord. They may be divided three orders: (a) Cerebral neurotics, or those which affect the brain only. (b) Spinal neurotics, or tetanics, those which affect the spinal cord. (c) Cerebro-spinal neurotics, or those which affect both brain and spinal cord. 

NEUROTOME:  A neuromere. 

NEUROTOMICAL:  Of or pertaining to neurotomy. 

NEUROTOMIST:  One who skilled in or practices neurotomy. 

NEUROTOMY:  The division of a nerve, for the relief of neuralgia, or for other purposes. Dunglison. 

NEURULA:  An embryo or certain invertebrates in the stage when the primitive band is first developed. 

NEUTER:  Having no generative organs, or imperfectly developed ones; sexless. See Neuter, n., 3. 

NEUTER:  An organism, either vegetable or animal, which at its maturity has no generative organs, or but imperfectly developed ones, as a plant without stamens or pistils, as the garden Hydrangea; esp., one of the imperfectly developed females of certain social insects, as of the ant and the common honeybee, which perform the labors of the community, and are called workers. 

NEUTRAL:  Neuter. See Neuter, a., 3.  4. (Chem.)  Having neither acid nor basic properties; unable to turn red litmus blue or blue litmus red; -- said of certain salts or other compounds. Contrasted with Ant: acid, and Ant: alkaline. Neutral axis, Neutral surface (Mech.), that line or plane, in a beam under transverse pressure, at which the fibers are neither stretched nor compressed, or where the longitudinal stress is zero. See Axis.  -- Neutral equilibrium (Mech.), the kind of equilibrium of a body so placed that when moved slighty it neither tends to return to its former position not depart more widely from it, as a perfect sphere or cylinder on a horizontal plane.  -- Neutral salt (Chem.), a salt formed by the complete replacement of the hydrogen in an acid or base; in the former case by a positive or basic, in the latter by a negative or acid, element or radical.  -- Neutral tint, a bluish gray pigment, used in water colors, made by mixing indigo or other blue some warm color. the shades vary greatly.  -- Neutral vowel, the vowel element having an obscure and indefinite quality, such as is commonly taken by the vowel in many unaccented syllables. It is regarded by some as identical with the û in up, and is called also the natural vowel, as unformed by art and effort. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 17. 

NEUTRAL:  A person or a nation that takes no part in a contest between others; one who is neutral. The neutral, as far as commerce extends, becomes a party in the war. R. G. Harper. 

NEUTRALIST:  A neutral; one who professes or practices neutrality. Milman. 

NEUTRALITY:  The quality or state of being neutral. See Neutral, a., 4.  4. (International Law)  The condition of a nation or government which refrains from taking part, directly or indirectly, in a war between other powers.  5. Those who are neutral; a combination of neutral powers or states. Armed neutrality, the condition of a neutral power, in time of war, which holds itself ready to resist by force any aggression of either belligerent. 

NEUTRALIZATION:  The act or process by which an acid and a base are combined in such proportions that the resulting compound is neutral. See Neutral, a., 4. 

NEUTRALIZE:  To render inert or imperceptible the peculiar affinities of, as a chemical substance; to destroy the effect of; as, to neutralize an acid with a base.  3. To destroy the peculiar or opposite dispositions of; to reduce to a state of indifference inefficience; to counteract; as, to neutralize parties in government; to neutralize efforts, opposition, etc. Counter citations that neutralize each other. E. Everett. 

NEUTRALIZER:  One who, or that which, neutralizes; that which destroys, disguises, or renders inert the peculiar properties of a body. 

NEUTRALLY:  In a neutral manner; without taking part with either side; indifferently.  NEUTROPHILE; NEUTROPHIL Neu"tro*phile, Neu"tro*phil, n. [L. neuter + Gr.  loving.] (Physiol.)  One of a group of leucocytes whose granules stain only with neutral dyes. -- Neu"tro*phil"ic (#), a., Neu*troph"i*lous (#), a. 

NEUVAINES:  Prayers offered up for nine successive days. 

NEVADITE:  A grantitoid variety of rhyolite, common in Nevada. 

NEVE:  The upper part of a glacier, above the limit or perpetual snow. See Galcier. 

NEVEN:  To name; to mention; to utter. [Obs.] As oft I heard my lord them neven. Chaucer. 

NEVERMORE:  Never again; at no time hereafter. Testament of Love. Tyndale. Where springtime of the Hesperides Begins, but endeth nevermore. Longfellow. 

NEVERTHELATER:  Nevertheless. [Obs.] 

NEVERTHELESS:  Not the less; notwithstanding; in spite of that; yet. No chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous; nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness. Heb. xii. 11.  Syn.  -- However; at least; yet; still. See However. 

NEVEW:  Nephew. [Obs.] haucer. 

NEW:  Newly; recently. Chaucer.  Note: New is much used in composition, adverbially, in the sense of newly, recently, to quality other words, as in new-born, new-formed, new-found, new-mown. Of new, anew. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NEW:  To make new; to renew. [Obs.] 

NEWBORN:  Recently born. Shak. 

NEWCOME:  Recently come. 

NEWCOMER:  One who has lately come. 

NEWEL:  A novelty; a new thing. [Obs.] Spenser. 

NEWEL:  The upright post about which the steps of a circular staircase wind; hence, in stairs having straight flights, the principal post at the foot of a staircase, or the secondary ones at the landings. See Hollow newel, under Hollow. 

NEWFANGLE:  Eager for novelties; desirous of changing. [Obs.] So newfangel be they of their meat. Chaucer. 

NEWFANGLE:  To change by introducing novelties. [Obs.] 

NEWFANGLEDNESS:  Affectation of, or fondness for, novelty; vain or affected fashion or form. 

NEWFANGLENESS:  Newfangledness. [Obs.] Chaucer. Proud newfangleness in their apparel. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

NEWFANGLIST:  One who is eager for novelties or desirous of change. [Obs.] Tooker. 

NEWFANGLY:  In a newfangled manner; with eagerness for novelty. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

NEWFASHIONED:  Made in a new form, or lately come into fashion. 

NEWING:  Yeast; barm. [prov. Eng.] 

NEWISH:  Somewhat new; nearly new. Bacon. 

NEWMARKET:  A long, closely fitting cloak.  NEW-MODEL New`-mod"el, v. t.  To remodel. 

NEWNESS:  The quality or state of being new; as, the newness of a system; the newness of a scene; newness of life. 

NEWS:  A newspaper. [Obs.] 

NEWSBOY:  A boy who distributes or sells newspaper.  NEWS-LETTER News"-let`ter, n.  A circular letter, written or printed for the purpose of disseminating news. This was the name given to the earliest English newspapers. 

NEWSMONGER:  One who deals in news; one who is active in hearing and telling news. 

NEWSPAPER:  A sheet of paper printed and distributed, at stated intervals, for conveying intelligence of passing events, advocating opinions, etc.; a public print that circulates news, advertisements, proceedings of legislative bodies, public announcements, etc. 

NEWSROOM:  A room where news is collected and disseminated, or periodicals sold; a reading room supplied with newspapers, magazines, etc.  NEWS-VNDER News"-vnd`er, n.  A seller of newspapers.  NEWS-WRITER News"-writ`er, n.  One who gathered news for, and wrote, news-letters. Macaulay. 

NEWSY:  Full of news; abounding in information as to current events. [Colloq.] 

NEWT:  Any one of several species of small aquatic salamanders. The common British species are the crested newt (Triton cristatus) and the smooth newt (Lophinus punctatus). In America, Diemictylus viridescens is one of the most abundant species.  NEW THOUGHT New Thought.  Any form of belief in mental healing other than (1) Christian Science and (2) hypnotism or psychotherapy. Its central principle is affirmative thought, or suggestion, employed with the conviction that man produces changes in his health, his finances, and his life by the adoption of a favorable mental attitude. AS a therapeutic doctrine it stands for silent and absent mental treatment, and the theory that all diseases are mental in origin. As a cult it has its unifying idea the inculcation of workable optimism in contrast with the "old thought" of sin, evil, predestination, and pessimistic resignation. The term is essentially synonymous with the term High Thought, used in England. 

NEWTONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Sir Isaac Newton, or his discoveries. Newtonian philosophy, the philosophy of Sir Isaac Newton; -- applied to the doctrine of the universe as expounded in Newton's "Principia," to the modern or experimental philosophy (as opposed to the theories of Descartes and others), and, most frequently, to the mathematical theory of universal gravitation.  -- Newtonian telescope (Astron.), a reflecting telescope, in which rays from the large speculum are received by a plane mirror placed diagonally in the axis, and near the open end of the tube, and thrown at right angles toward one side of the tube, where the image is formed and viewed through the eyeplace.  -- Newtonian theory of light. See Note under Light. 

NEWTONIAN:  A follower of Newton.  NEW-YEAR New"-year`, a.  Of or pertaining to, or suitable for, the commencement of the year; as, New-year gifts or odes.  NEW YEAR'S DAY New" Year's` Day".  the first day of a calendar year; the first day of January. Often colloquially abbreviated to New year's or new year.  NEW ZEALAND New` Zea"land.  A group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean. New Zealand flax. (a) (Bot.) A tall, liliaceous herb (Phormium tenax), having very long, sword-shaped, distichous leaves which furnish a fine, strong fiber very valuable for cordage and the like. (b) The fiber itself.  -- New Zealand tea (Bot.), a myrtaceous shrub (Leptospermum scoparium) of New Zealand and Australia, the leaves of which are used as a substitute for tea. 

NEXIBLE:  That may be knit together. [R.] 

NEXT:  In the time, place, or order nearest or immediately suceeding; as, this man follows next. 

NEXUS:  Connection; tie. Man is doubtless one by some subtile nexus ... extending from the new-born infant to the superannuated dotard. De Quincey.  NEZ PERCES Nez" Per`cés", pl.; sing. Nez PercÉ (. Etym: [F., pierced noses.] (Ethnol.)  A tribe of Indians, mostly inhabiting Idaho. 

NGINA:  The gorilla.  NIAGARA PERIOD Ni*ag"a*ra pe"ri*od. (Geol.)  A subdivision or the American Upper Silurian system, embracing the Medina, Clinton, and Niagara epoch. The rocks of the Niagara epoch, mostly limestones, are extensively distributed, and at Niagara Falls consist of about eighty feet of shale supporting a greater thickness of limestone, which is gradually undermined by the removal of the shale. See Chart of Geology. 

NIAS:  A young hawk; an eyas; hence, an unsophisticated person. [Obs.] 

NIB:  The bill or beak of a bird; the neb.  3. The points of a pen; also, the pointed part of a pen; a short pen adapted for insertion in a holder.  4. One of the handles which project from a scythe snath; also, [Prov. Eng.], the shaft of a wagon. 

NIB:  To furnish with a nib; to point; to mend the point of; as, to nib a pen. 

NIBBED:  Having a nib or point. 

NIBBLE:  To bite by little at a time; to seize gently with the mouth; to eat slowly or in small bits. Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep. Shak. 

NIBBLE:  To bite upon something gently or cautiously; to eat a little of a thing, as by taking small bits cautiously; as, fishes nibble at the bait. Instead of returning a full answer to my book, he manifestly falls a- nibbling at one single passage. Tillotson. 

NIBBLE:  A small or cautious bite. 

NIBBLER:  One who, or that which, nibbles. 

NIBBLINGLY:  In a nibbling manner; cautiously. 

NIBELUNGENLIED:  A great medieval German epic of unknown authorship containing traditions which refer to the Burgundians at the time of Attila (called Etzel in the poem) and mythological elements pointing to heathen times. 

NIBELUNGS:  In German mythology, the children of the mist, a race of dwarfs or demonic beings, the original possessors of the famous hoard and ring won by Siegfrid; also, the Burgundian kings in the Nibelungenlied. 

NIBLICK:  A kind of golf stick used to lift the ball out of holes, ruts, etc. 

NICAGUA:  The laughing falcon. See under laughing.  NICARAGUA WOOD Nic`a*ra"gua wood`.  Brazil wood. 

NICCOLITE:  A mineral of a copper-red color and metallic luster; an arsenide of nickel; -- called also coppernickel, kupfernickel. 

NICELY:  In a nice manner. 

NICENE:  Of or pertaining to Nice, a town of Asia Minor, or to the ecumenial council held there A. D. 325. Nicene Creed (, a summary of Christian faith, composed and adopted by the Council of Nice, against Arianism, A. D. 325, altered and confirmed by the Council of Constantinople, A. D. 381, and by subsequent councils. 

NICENESS:  Quality or state of being nice. 

NICERY:  Nicety. [Colloq.] Chapman. 

NICHE:  A cavity, hollow, or recess, generally within the thickness of a wall, for a statue, bust, or other erect ornament. hence, any similar position, literal or figurative. Images defended from the injuries of the weather by niches of stone wherein they are placed. Evelun. 

NICHED:  Placed in a niche. "Those niched shapes of noble mold." Tennyson. 

NICK:  An evil spirit of the waters. Old Nick, the evil one; the devil. [Colloq.] 

NICK:  To nickname; to style. [Obs.] For Warbeck, as you nick him, came to me. Ford.  NICKAR NUT; NICKAR TREE Nick"ar nut`, Nick"ar tree`. (Bot.)  Same as Nicker nut, Nicker tree. 

NICKEL:  A bright silver-white metallic element. It is of the iron group, and is hard, malleable, and ductile. It occurs combined with sulphur in millerite, with arsenic in the mineral niccolite, and with arsenic and sulphur in nickel glance. Symbol Ni. Atomic weight 58.6.  Note: On account of its permanence in air and inertness to oxidation, it is used in the smaller coins, for plating iron, brass, etc., for chemical apparatus, and in certain alloys, as german silver. It is magnetic, and is very frequently accompanied by cobalt, both being found in meteoric iron.  2. A small coin made of or containing nickel; esp., a five-cent piece. [Colloq. U.S.] Nickel silver, an alloy of nickel, copper, and zinc; -- usually called german silver; called also argentan. 

NICKELIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, nickel; specifically, designating compounds in which, as contrasted with the nickelous compounds, the metal has a higher valence; as nickelic oxide. 

NICKELIFEROUS:  Containing nickel; as, nickelferous iron. 

NICKELINE:  An alloy of nickel, a variety of German silver.  2. (Min.)  Niccolite. 

NICKELODEON:  A place of entertainment, as for moving picture exhibition, charging a fee or admission price of five cents. [U. S.] 

NICKELOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, those compounds of nickel in which, as contrasted with the nickelic compounds, the metal has a lower valence; as, nickelous oxide. Frankland.  NICKEL STEEL Nickel steel.  A kind of cast steel containing nickel, which greatly increases its strength. It is used for armor plate, bicycle tubing, propeller shafts, etc. 

NICKER:  A rounded seed, rather smaller than a nutmeg, having a hard smooth shell, and a yellowish or bluish color. The seeds grow in the prickly pods of tropical, woody climbers of the genus Cæsalpinia. C. Bonduc has yellowish seeds; C.Bonducella, bluish gray. [Spelt also neckar nut, nickar nut.]  NICKER TREE Nick"er tree`. (Bot.)  The plant producing nicker nuts. [Written also neckar tree and nickar tree.] 

NICKING:  Small coal produced in making the nicking. 

NICKLE:  The European woodpecker, or yaffle; -- called also nicker pecker. 

NICKNACK:  See Knickknack. 

NICKNACKERY:  See Knickknackery. 

NICKNAME:  A name given in contempt, derision, or sportive familiarity; a familiar or an opprobrious appellation. 

NICKNAME:  To give a nickname to; to call by a nickname. You nickname virtue; vice you should have spoke. Shak. I altogether disclaim what has been nicknamed the doctrine of finality. Macaulay. 

NICOLAITAN:  One of certain corrupt persons in the early church at Ephesus, who are censured in rev. ii. 6, 15. 

NICOTIAN:  Tobacco. [R.] B. Jonson. 

NICOTIAN:  Pertaining to, or derived from, tobacco. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

NICOTIANA:  A genus of American and Asiatic solanaceous herbs, with viscid foliage and funnel-shaped blossoms. Several species yield tobacco. See Tobacco. 

NICOTIANINE:  A white waxy substance having a hot, bitter taste, extracted from tobacco leaves and called also tobacco camphor. 

NICOTIC:  Nicotinic. 

NICOTIDINE:  A complex, oily, nitrogenous base, isomeric with nicotine, and obtained by the reduction of certain derivatives of the pyridine group. 

NICOTINE:  An alkaloid which is the active principle of tobacco. It is a colorless, transparent, oily liquid, having an acrid odor, and an acrid burning taste. It is intensely poisonous. Ure. 

NICOTINIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, nicotine; nicotic; -- used specifically to designate an acid related to pyridine, obtained by the oxidation of nicotine, and called nicotinic acid. 

NICOTINISM:  The morbid condition produced by the excessive use of tobacco. 

NICTATE:  To wink; to nictitate. 

NICTATION:  the act of winking; nictitation. 

NICTITATE:  To wink; to nictate. Nictitating membrance (Anat.), a thin membrance, found in many animals at the inner angle, or beneath the lower lid, of the eye, and capable of being drawn across the eyeball; the third eyelid; the haw. 

NICTITATION:  The act of winking. 

NIDAMENTAL:  of, pertaining to, or baring, eggs or egg capsules; as, the nidament capsules of certain gastropods; nidamental glands. See Illust. of Dibranchiata. 

NIDARY:  A collection of nests. [R.] velyn. 

NIDE:  A nestful; a brood; as, a nide of pheasants. [Obs.] 

NIDERING:  Infamous; dastardly. [Obs.] Sir W. Scott. 

NIDGERY:  A trifle; a piece of foolery. [Obs.] Skinner. 

NIDGET:  A fool; an idiot, a coward. [Obs.] Camden. 

NIDIFICATE:  To make a nest. Where are the fishes which nidificated in trees Lowell. 

NIDIFICATION:  The act or process of building a nest. 

NIDING:  A coward; a dastard; -- a term of utmost opprobrium. [Obs.] He is worthy to be called a niding. Howell. 

NIDOR:  Scent or savor of meat or food, cooked or cooking. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

NIDOROSE:  Nidorous. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

NIDOROUS:  Resembling the smell or taste of roast meat, or of corrupt animal matter. [R.] 

NIDULANT:  Lying loose in pulp or cotton within a berry or pericarp, as in a nest. 

NIDULATE:  To make a nest, as a bird. [R.] Cockeram. 

NIDULATION:  The time of remaining in the nest. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

NIDULITE:  A Silurian fossil, formerly supposed to consist of eggs. 

NIDUS:  A nest: a repository for the eggs of birds, insects, etc.; a breeding place; esp., the place or substance where parasites or the germs of a disease effect lodgment or are developed. 

NIEF:  See Neif, the fist. 

NIELLIST:  One who practices the style of ornamentation called niello. 

NIELLO:  A process, now no longer used, invented by J. N. Niepce, a French chemist, in 1829. It depends upon the action of light in rendering a thin layer of bitumen, with which the plate is coated, insoluble. 

NIFLE:  A trifle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NIGGARD:  A person meanly close and covetous; one who spends grudgingly; a stingy, parsimonous fellow; a miser. Chaucer. A penurious niggard of his wealth. Milton. Be niggards of advice on no pretense. Pope. 

NIGGARD:  Like a niggard; meanly covetous or parsimonious; niggardly; miserly; stingy. 

NIGGARD:  To act the niggard toward; to be niggardly. [R.] Shak. 

NIGGARDISE:  Niggardliness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

NIGGARDISH:  Somewhat niggard. 

NIGGARDLINESS:  The quality or state of being niggard; meanness in giving or spending; parsimony; stinginess. Niggardliness is not good husbandry. Addison. 

NIGGARDLY:  Meanly covetous or avarcious in dealing with others; stingy; niggard. Where the owner of the house will be bountiful, it is not for the steward to be niggardly. Bp. Hall.  Syn.  -- Avarcious; covetous; parsimonious; sparing; miserly; penurios; sordid; stingy. See Avaricious. 

NIGGARDLY:  In a niggard manner. 

NIGGARDNESS:  Niggardliness. Sir P. Sidney. 

NIGGARDOUS:  Niggardly. [Obs.] Covetous gathering and niggardous keeping. Sir T. More. 

NIGGARDSHIP:  Niggardliness. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

NIGGARDY:  Niggardliness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NIGGED:  Hammer-dressed; -- said of building stone. 

NIGGER:  A negro; -- in vulgar derision or depreciation. 

NIGGERHEAD:  A strong black chewing tobacco, usually in twisted plug form; negro head. 

NIGGISH:  Niggardly. [Obs.] 

NIGGLE:  To trifle with; to deceive; to mock. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

NIGGLER:  One who niggles. 

NIGGLING:  Finicky or pottering work; specif. (Fine Arts),  minute and very careful workmanship in drawing, painting, or the like, esp. when bestowed on unimportant detail. 

NIGH:  To draw nigh (to); to approach; to come near. [Obs.] Wyclif (Matt. iii. 2). 

NIGH:  Near to; not remote or distant from. "was not this nigh shore" Shak. 

NIGHLY:  In a near relation in place, time, degree, etc.; within a little; almost. [Obs.] A cube and a sphere ... nighly of the same bigness. Locke. 

NIGHNESS:  The quality or state of being nigh. [R.] "Nighness of blood." Holished. 

NIGHT:  Blooming in the night. Night-blooming cereus. (Bot.) See Note under Cereus. 

NIGHTDRESS:  A nightgown. 

NIGHTERTALE:  period of night; nighttime. [Obs.] Chaucer.  NIGHT-EYED Night"-eyed`, a.  Capable of seeing at night; sharp-eyed. "Your night-eyed Tiberius." B. Jonson. 

NIGHTFALL:  The close of the day. Swift.  NIGHT-FARING Night"-far`ing, a.  Going or traveling in the night. Gay. 

NIGHTGOWN:  A loose gown used for undress; also, a gown used for a sleeping garnment. 

NIGHTINGALE:  A small, plain, brown and gray European song bird (Luscinia luscinia). It sings at night, and is celebrated for the sweetness of its song.  2. (Zoöl.)  A larger species (Lucinia philomela), of Eastern Europe, having similar habits; the thrush nightingale. The name is also applied to other allied species. Mock nightingale. (Zoöl.) See Blackcap, n., 1 (a). 

NIGHTISH:  Of or pertaining to night. 

NIGHTJAR:  A goatsucker, esp. the European species. See Illust. of Goatsucker. 

NIGHTLESS:  Having no night.  NIGHT LETTER; NIGHT LETTERGRAM Night letter, Night lettergram.  See Letter, above. 

NIGHTLONG:  Lasting all night. 

NIGHTLY:  Of or pertaining to the night, or to every night; happening or done by night, or every night; as, nightly shades; he kept nightly vigils. 

NIGHTLY:  At night; every night. 

NIGHTMAN:  One whose business is emptying privies by night. 

NIGHTSHADE:  A common name of many species of the genus Solanum, given esp. to the Solanum nigrum, or black nightshade, a low, branching weed with small white flowers and black berries reputed to be poisonous. Deadly nightshade. Same as Belladonna (a).  -- Enchanter's nightshade. See under Enchanter.  -- Stinking nightshade. See Henbane.  -- Three-leaved nightshade. See Trillium. 

NIGHTSHIRT:  A kind of nightgown for men.  NIGHT TERRORS Night terrors. (Med.)  A sudden awkening associated with a sensation of terror, occurring in children, esp. those of unstable nervous constitution. 

NIGHTTIME:  The time from dusk to dawn; -- opposed to Ant: daytime. 

NIGHTWARD:  Approaching toward night. 

NIGRANILINE:  The complex, nitrogenous, organic base and dyestuff called also aniline black. 

NIGRESCENT:  Growing black; changing to a black color; approaching to blackness. Johnson. 

NIGRIFICATION:  The act or process of making black. [R.] Johnson. 

NIGRINE:  A ferruginous variety of rutile. 

NIGRITIC:  Pertaining to, or having the characteristics of, negroes, or of the Negritos, Papuans, and the Melanesian races; negritic. 

NIGRITUDE:  Blackness; the state of being black. Lamb. 

NIGROMANCIE:  Necromancy. [Obs.] 

NIGROMANCIEN:  A necromancer. [Obs.] These false enchanters or nigromanciens. Chaucer. 

NIGROSINE:  A dark blue dyestuff, of the induline group; -- called also azodiphenyl blue. 

NIGUA:  The chigoe. 

NIHIL:  Nothing. Nihil album Etym: [L., white nothing] (Chem.), oxide of zinc. See under Zinc.  -- Nihil debet Etym: [L., he owes nothing] (Law), the general issue in certain actions of debt.  -- Nihil dicit Etym: [L., he says nothing] (Law), a declinature by the defendant to plead or answer. Tomlins. 

NIHILISM:  The theories and practices of the Nihilists. 

NIHILIST:  A member of a secret association (esp. in Russia), which is devoted to the destruction of the present political, religious, and social institutions. 

NIHILISTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, nihilism. 

NIHILITY:  Nothingness; a state of being nothing. 

NIL:  Will not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NIL:  Nothing; of no account; worthless; -- a term often used for canceling, in accounts or bookkeeping. A. J. Ellis. 

NILE:  The great river of Egypt. Nile bird. (Zoöl.) (a) The wryneck. [Prov. Eng.] (b) The crocodile bird.  -- Nile goose (Zoöl.), the Egyptian goose. See Note under Goose, 2. 

NILGAU:  see Nylghau. 

NILL:  Not to will; to refuse; to reject. [Obs.] Certes, said he, I nill thine offered grace. Spenser. 

NILL:  To be unwilling; to refuse to act. The actions of the will are "velle" and "nolle," to will and nill. Burton. Will he, nill he, whether he wills it or not. 

NILOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the rise of water in the Nile during its periodical flood. 

NILOSCOPE:  A Nilometer. 

NILOTIC:  Of or pertaining to the river Nile; as, the Nilotic crocodile. 

NILT:  Wilt not. [Obs.] 

NIM:  To take; to steal; to filch. [Obs.] This canon it in his hand nam. Chaucer. 

NIMBIFEROUS:  Serving to bring clouds or stormy weather. 

NIMBLE:  Light and quick in motion; moving with ease and celerity; lively; swift. Through the mid seas the nimble pinnace sails. Pope.  Note: Nimble is sometimes used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, nimble-footed, nimble-pinioned, nimble-winged, etc. Nimble Will (Bot.), a slender, branching, American grass (Muhlenbergia diffusa), of some repute for grazing purposes in the Mississippi valley.  Syn.  -- Agile; quick; active; brisk; lively; prompt. 

NIMBLENESS:  The quality of being nimble; lightness and quickness in motion; agility; swiftness. 

NIMBLESS:  Nimbleness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

NIMBLY:  In a nimble manner; with agility; with light, quick motion. 

NIMBOSE:  Cloudy; stormy; tempestuous. 

NIMBUS:  A circle, or disk, or any indication of radiant light around the heads of divinities, saints, and sovereigns, upon medals, pictures, etc.; a halo. See Aureola, and Glory, n., 5.  Note: "The nimbus is of pagan origin." "As an atribute of power, the nimbus is often seen attached to the heads of evil spirits." Fairholl.  2. (Meteor.)  A rain cloud; one of the four principal varieties of clouds. See Cloud. 

NIMIETY:  State of being in excess. [R.] There is a nimiety, a too-muchess, in all Germans. Coleridge. 

NIMIOUS:  Excessive; extravagant; inordinate. [Obs.] 

NIMMER:  A thief. [Obs.] 

NIN:  Not in. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NINCOMPOOP:  A fool; a silly or stupid person. [Law] An old ninnyhammer, a dotard, a nincompoop, is the best language she can afford me. Addison. 

NINE:  Eight and one more; one less than ten; as, nine miles. Nine men's morris. See Morris.  -- Nine points circle (Geom.), a circle so related to any given triangle as to pass through the three points in which the perpendiculars from the angles of the triangle upon the opposite sides (or the sides produced) meet the sides. It also passes through the three middle points of the sides of the triangle and through the three middle points of those parts of the perpendiculars that are between their common point of meeting and the angles of the triangle. The circle is hence called the nine points or six points circle. 

NINE:  A white-flowered rosaceous shrub (Neillia, or Spiræa, opulifolia), common in the Northern United States. The bark separates into many thin layers, whence the name.  NINE-EYES Nine"-eyes`, n. (Zoöl.)  The lamprey. 

NINEFOLD:  Nine times repeated. 

NINEHOLES:  A game in which nine holes are made in the ground, into which a ball is bowled.  NINE-KILLER Nine"-kill`er, n. Etym: [So called because it is believed to kill and impale on thorns nine birds, etc., in succession.] (Zoöl.)  The northern butcher bird. 

NINEPINS:  A game played with nine pins, or pieces of wood, set on end, at which a wooden ball is bowled to knock them down; bowling.  Note: In the United States, ten pins are used for this game, which is therefore often called tenpins. 

NINESCORE:  Nine times twenty, or one hundred and eighty.  -- n.  The product of nine times twenty; ninescore units or objects. 

NINETEEN:  Nine and ten; eighteen and one more; one less than twenty; as, nineteen months. 

NINETEENTH:  An interval of two octaves and a fifth. 

NINETY:  Nine times ten; eighty-nine and one more; as, ninety men. 

NINNY:  A fool; a simpleton. Shak. 

NINNYHAMMER:  A simpleton; a silly person. [Colloq.] Addison. 

NINTHLY:  In the ninth place. 

NINUT:  The magpie. [Prov. Eng.] 

NIOBATE:  Same as Columbate. 

NIOBE:  The daughter of Tantalus, and wife of Amphion, king of Thebes. Her pride in her children provoked Apollo and Diana, who slew them all. Niobe herself was changed by the gods into stone. 

NIOBIC:  Same as Columbic. 

NIOBITE:  Same as Columbite. 

NIOBIUM:  A later name of columbium. See Columbium. 

NIOPO:  A kind of snuff prepared by the natives of Venezuela from the roasted seeds of a leguminous tree (Piptadenia peregrina), thence called niopo tree. 

NIP:  A sip or small draught; esp., a draught of intoxicating liquor; a dram. 

NIP:  A short turn in a rope. Nip and tuck, a phrase signifying equality in a contest. [Low, U.S.] 

NIPPERKIN:  A small cup. [Obs.] 

NIPPERS:  A device with fingers or jaws for seizing an object and holding or conveying it; as, in a printing press, a clasp for catching a sheet and conveying it to the form.  3. (Naut.)  A number of rope-yarns wound together, used to secure a cable to the messenger. 

NIPPING:  Biting; pinching; painful; destructive; as, a nipping frost; a nipping wind. 

NIPPINGLY:  In a nipping manner. 

NIPPITATE:  Peculiary strong and good; -- said of ale or liquor. [Old Cant] 'T will make a cup of wine taste nippitate. Chapman. 

NIPPITATO:  Strong liquor. [Old Cant] Beau. & Fl. 

NIPPLE:  The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the breast or mamma; the mammilla; a teat; a pap.  2. The orifice at which any animal liquid, as the oil from an oil bag, is discharged. [R.] Derham.  3. Any small projection or article in which there is an orifice for discharging a fluid, or for other purposes; as, the nipple of a nursing bottle; the nipple of a percussion lock, or that part on which the cap is put and through which the fire passes to the charge.  4. (Mech.)  A pipe fitting, consisting of a short piece of pipe, usually provided with a screw thread at each end, for connecting two other fittings. Solder nipple, a short pipe, usually of brass, one end of which is tapered and adapted for attachment to the end of a lead pipe by soldering. 

NIPPLEWORT:  A yellow-flowered composite herb (Lampsana communis), formerly used as an external application to the nipples of women; -- called also dock-cress. 

NIRVANA:  In the Buddhist system of religion, the final emancipation of the soul from transmigration, and consequently a beatific enfrachisement from the evils of wordly existence, as by annihilation or absorption into the divine. See Buddhism. 

NIS:  Is not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NISAN:  The first month of the jewish ecclesiastical year, formerly answering nearly to the month of April, now to March, of the Christian calendar. See Abib. 

NISEY:  A simpleton. [Obs.] 

NISI:  Unless; if not.  Note: In legal proceedings, this word is used to indicate that any order, etc., shall take effect at a given time, unless before that time the order, etc., in modified, or something else is done to prevent its taking effect. Continuance nisi is a conditional continuance of the case till the next term of the court, unless otherwise disposed of in the mean time. Nisi prius (Law), unless before; -- a phrase applied to terms of court, held generally by a single judge, with a jury, for the trial of civil causes. The term originated in a legal fiction. An issue of fact being made up, it is, according to the English practice, appointed by the entry on the record, or written proceedings, to be tried by a jury from the county of which the proceedings are dated, at Westminster, unless before the day appointed (nisi prius) the judges shall have come to the county in question (which they always do) and there try the cause. See In banc, under Banc. 

NISTE:  Wist not; knew not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NISUS:  A striving; an effort; a conatus. A nisus or energizing towards a presented object. Hickok. 

NIT:  The egg of a louse or other small insect. Nit grass (Bot.), a pretty annual European grass (Gastridium lendigerum), with small spikelets somewhat resembling a nit. It is also found in California and Chili. 

NITENCY:  Brightness; luster. [R.] 

NITENCY:  Endeavor; rffort; tendency. [R.] Boyle.  NITER; NITRE Ni"ter, Ni"tre, n. Etym: [F. nitre, L. nitrum native soda, natron, Gr. nit, natr natron. Cf. Natron.]  1. (Chem.)  A white crystalline semitransparent salt; potassium nitrate; saltpeter. See Saltpeter.  2. (Chem.)  Native sodium carbonate; natron. [Obs.] For though thou wash thee with niter, and take thee much soap, yet thine iniquity is marked before me. Jer. ii. 22. Cubic niter, a deliquescent salt, sodium nitrate, found as a native incrustation, like niter, in Peru and Chili, whence it is known also as Chili saltpeter.  -- Niter bush (Bot.), a genus (Nitraria) of thorny shrubs bearing edible berries, and growing in the saline plains of Asia and Northern Africa. 

NITHING:  See Niding. 

NITRANILIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acid produced as a white crystalline substance by the action of nitrous acid on hydroquinone. 

NITRANILINE:  Any one of a series of nitro derivatives of aniline. In general they are yellow crystalline substances. 

NITRATE:  A salt of nitric acid. Nitrate of silver, a white crystalline salt (AgNO3), used in photography and as a cauterizing agent; -- called also lunar caustic. 

NITRATED:  Combined, or impregnated, with nitric acid, or some of its compounds.  2. (Photog.)  Prepared with nitrate of silver. 

NITRATINE:  A mineral occurring in transparent crystals, usually of a white, sometimes of a reddish gray, or lemon-yellow, color; native sodium nitrate. It is used in making nitric acid and for manure. Called also soda niter. 

NITRE:  See Niter. 

NITRIARY:  An artificial bed of animal matter for the manufacture of niter by nitrification. See Nitrification, 2. 

NITRIC:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrogen; specifically, designating any one of those compounds in which, as contrasted with nitrous compounds, the element has a higher valence; as, nitric oxide; nitric acid. Nitric acid, a colorless or yellowish liquid obtained by distilling a nitrate with sulphuric acid. It is powerfully corrosive, being a strong acid, and in decomposition a strong oxidizer.  -- Nitric anhydride, a white crystalline oxide of nitrogen (N2O5), called nitric pentoxide, and regarded as the anhydride of nitric acid.  -- Nitric oxide, a colorless poisous gas (NO) obtained by treating nitric acid with copper. On contact with the air or with oxygen, it becomes reddish brown from the formation of nitric dioxide or peroxide. 

NITRIDE:  A binary compound of nitrogen with a more metallic element or radical; as, boric nitride. 

NITRIFEROUS:  Bearing niter; yielding, or containing, niter. 

NITRIFIER:  An agent employed in nitrification. 

NITRIFY:  To combine or impregnate with nitrogen; to convert, by oxidation, into nitrous or nitric acid; to subject to, or produce by, nitrification. 

NITRILE:  Any one of a series of cyanogen compounds; particularly, one of those cyanides of alcohol radicals which, by boiling with acids or alkalies, produce a carboxyl acid, with the elimination of the nitrogen as ammonia.  Note: The nitriles are named with reference to the acids produced by their decomposition, thus, hydrocyanic acid is formic nitrile, and methyl cyanide is acetic nitrile. 

NITRITE:  A salt of nitrous acid. Amyl nitrite, a yellow oily volatile liquid, used in medicine as a depressant and a vaso-dilator. Its inhalation produces an instantaneous flushing of the face.  NITRO- Ni"tro- (.  1. A combining form or an adjective denoting the presence of niter.  2. (Chem.)  A combining form (used also adjectively) designating certain compounds of nitrogen or of its acids, as nitrohydrochloric, nitrocalcite; also, designating the group or radical NO2, or its compounds, as nitrobenzene. Nitro group, the radical NO2; -- called also nitroxyl. 

NITROBENZENE:  A yellow aromatic liquid (C6H5.NO2), produced by the action of nitric acid on benzene, and called from its odor imitation oil of bitter almonds, or essence of mirbane. It is used in perfumery, and is manufactured in large quantities in the preparation of aniline. Fornerly called also nitrobenzol.  NITROBENZOL; NITROBENZOLE Ni`tro*ben"zol, Ni`tro*ben"zole, (, n.  See Nitrobenzene. 

NITROCALCITE:  Nitrate of calcium, a substance having a grayish white color, occuring in efforescences on old walls, and in limestone caves, especially where there exists decaying animal matter. 

NITROCARBOL:  See Nitromethane. 

NITROCELLULOSE:  See Gun cotton, under Gun.  NITRO-CHLOROFORM Ni`tro-chlo"ro*form, n. Etym: [Nitro- + chloroform.] (Chem.)  Same as Chlorpicrin. 

NITROFORM:  A nitro derivative of methane, analogous to chloroform, obtained as a colorless oily or crystalline substance, CH.(NO2)3, quite explosive, and having well-defined acid properties. 

NITROGELATIN:  An explosive consisting of gun cotton and camphor dissolved in nitroglycerin. [Written also nitrogelatine.] 

NITROGEN:  A colorless nonmetallic element, tasteless and odorless, comprising four fifths of the atmosphere by volume. It is chemically very inert in the free state, and as such is incapable of supporting life (hence the name azote still used by French chemists); but it forms many important compounds, as ammonia, nitric acid, the cyanides, etc, and is a constituent of all organized living tissues, animal or vegetable. Symbol N. Atomic weight 14. It was formerly regarded as a permanent noncondensible gas, but was liquefied in 1877 by Cailletet of Paris, and Pictet of Geneva. 

NITROGENIZE:  To combine, or impregnate, with nitrogen or its compounds. 

NITROGENOUS:  of, pertaining to, or resembling, nitrogen; as, a nitrogenous principle; nitrogenous compounds. Nitrogenous foods. See 2d Note under Food, n., 1. 

NITROGLYCERIN:  A liquid appearing like a heavy oil, colorless or yellowish, and consisting of a mixture of several glycerin salts of nitric acid, and hence more properly called glycerin nitrate. It is made by the action of nitric acid on glycerin in the presence of sulphuric acid. It is extremely unstable and terribly explosive. A very dilute solution is used in medicine as a neurotic under the name of glonion. [Written also nitroglycerine.]  Note: A great number of explosive compounds have been produced by mixing nitroglycerin with different substances; as, dynamite, or giant powder, nitroglycerin mixed with siliceous earth; lithofracteur, nitroglycerin with gunpowder, or with sawdust and nitrate of sodium or barium; Colonia powder, gunpowder with nitroglycerin; dualin, nitroglycerin with sawdust, or with sawdust and nitrate of potassium and some other substances; lignose, wood fiber and nitroglycerin. 

NITROHYDROCHLORIC:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitric and hydrochloric acids. Nitrohydrochloric acid, a mixture of nitric and hydrochloric acids, usually in the proportion of one part of the former to three of the latter, and remarkable for its solvent action on gold and platinum; -- called also nitromuriatic acid, and aqua regia. 

NITROL:  Any one of a series of hydrocarbons containing the nitro and the nitroso or isonitroso group united to the same carbon atom. 

NITROLEUM:  Nitroglycerin. 

NITROLIC:  of, derived from, or designating, a nitrol; as, a nitrolic acid. 

NITROMAGNESITE:  Nitrate of magnesium, a saline efflorescence closely resembling nitrate of calcium. 

NITROMETER:  An apparatus for determining the amount of nitrogen or some of its compounds in any substance subjected to analysis; an azotometer. 

NITROMETHANE:  A nitro derivative of methane obtained as a mobile liquid; -- called also nitrocarbol. 

NITROMURIATIC:  Of, pertaining to, or composed of, nitric acid and muriatic acid; nitrohydrochloric. See Nitrohydrochloric. 

NITROPHNOL:  Any one of a series of nitro derivatives of phenol. They are yellow oily or crystalline substances and have well-defined acid properties, as picric acid. 

NITROPRUSSIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a complex acid called nitroprussic acid, obtained indirectly by the action of nitric acid on potassium ferrocyanide (yellow prussiate), as a red crystalline unstable substance. It forms salts called nitroprussides, which give a rich purple color with alkaline subphides. 

NITROPRUSSIDE:  See Nitroprussic. 

NITROQUINOL:  A hypothetical nitro derivative of quinol or hydroquinone, not known in the free state, but forming a well defined series of derivatives. 

NITROSACCHARIN:  An explosive nitro derivative of certain sugars, analogous to nitroglycerin, gun cotton, etc. 

NITROSALICYLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitro derivative of salicylic acid, called also anilic acid. 

NITROSE:  See Nitrous.  NITROSO- Ni*tro"so-  (. (Chem.) A prefix (also used adjectively) designating the group or radical NO, called the nitroso group, or its compounds. 

NITROSYL:  the radical NO, called also the nitroso group. The term is sometimes loosely used to designate certain nitro compounds; as, nitrosyl sulphuric acid. Used also adjectively. 

NITROSYLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrosyl; as, nitrosylic acid. 

NITROUS:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of those compounds in which nitrogen has a relatively lower valence as contrasted with nitric compounds. Nitrous acid (Chem.), a hypothetical acid of nitrogen HNO2, not known in the free state, but forming a well known series of salts, viz., the nitrites.  -- Nitrous oxide. See Laughing gas. 

NITROXYL:  The group NO2, usually called the nitro group. 

NITRUM:  Niter. Nitrum flammans Etym: [L., flaming niter] (Old Chem.), ammonium nitrate; -- probably so called because it deflagerates when suddenly heated. 

NITRY:  Nitrous. [Obs.] 

NITRYL:  A name sometimes given to the nitro group or radical. 

NITTER:  The horselouse; an insect that deposits nits on horses. 

NITTILY:  Lousily. [Obs.] Haywar 

NITTINGS:  The refuse of good ore. Raymond. 

NITTY:  Full of nits. B. Jonson. 

NITTY:  Shining; elegant; spruce. [Obs.] "O sweet, nitty youth." Marston. 

NIVAL:  Abounding with snow; snowy. [Obs.] Johnson. 

NIVEOUS:  Snowy; resembling snow; partaking of the qualities of snow. Sir T. Browne. 

NIVOSE:  The fourth month of the French republican calendar [1792-1806]. It commenced December 21, and ended January 19. See VendÉmiaire. 

NIX:  One of a class of water spirits, commonly described as of a mischievous disposition. The treacherous nixes who entice men to a watery death. Tylor. 

NIXIE:  See Nix.  NIXIE CLERK Nixie clerk.  A post-office clerk in charge of the nixies. 

NIZAM:  The title of the native sovereigns of Hyderabad, in India, since 1719. 

NO:  Not any; not one; none. Let there be no strife ... between me and thee. Gen. xiii. 8. That goodness is no name, and happiness no dream. Byron.  Note: In Old England before a vowel the form non or noon was used. "No man." "Noon apothercary." Chaucer. 

NO:  Nay; not; not at all; not in any respect or degree; -- a word expressing negation, denial, or refusal. Before or after another negative, no is emphatic. We do no otherwise than we are willed. Shak. I am perplx'd and doubtful whether or no I dare accept this your congratulation. Coleridge. There is none righteous, no, not one. Rom. iii. 10. No! Nay, Heaven forbid. Coleridge. 

NOACHIAN:  Of or pertaining to the patriarch Noah, or to his time. 

NOAH:  A patriarch of Biblical history, in the time of the Deluge. Noah's ark. (a) (Zoöl.) A marine bivalve shell (Arca Noæ), which somewhat resembles an ark, or ship, in form. (b) A child's toy, consisting of an ark-shaped box containing many different wooden animals. 

NOB:  The head. [Low] 

NOB:  A person in a superior position in life; a nobleman. [Slang] 

NOBBILY:  In a nobby manner. [Slang] 

NOBBLER:  A dram of spirits. [Australia] 

NOBBY:  Stylish; modish; elegant; showy; aristocratic; fashionable. [Slang]  NOBEL PRIZES No*bel" prizes.  Prizes for the encouragement of men and women who work for the interests of humanity, established by the will of A. B. Nobel (1833- 96), the Swedish inventor of dynamite, who left his entire estate for this purpose. They are awarded yearly for what is regarded as the most important work during the year in physics, chemistry, medicine or physiology, idealistic literature, and service in the interest of peace. The prizes, averaging $40,000 each, were first awarded in 1901.  NOBERT'S LINES No"bert's lines. [After F. A. Nobert, German manufacturer in Pomerania.]  Fine lines ruled on glass in a series of groups of different closeness of line, and used to test the power of a microscope. 

NOBILIARY:  Of or pertaining to the nobility. Fitzed. Hall. 

NOBILIARY:  A history of noble families. 

NOBILIFY:  To make noble; to nobiliate. [Obs.]  NOBILI'S RINGS No"bi*li's rings. [After Leopoldo Nobili, an Italian physicist who first described them in 1826.] (Physics)  Colored rings formed upon a metal plate by the electrolytic disposition of copper, lead peroxide, etc. They may be produced by touching with a pointed zinc rod a silver plate on which is a solution of copper sulphate. 

NOBILITATE:  To make noble; to ennoble; to exalt. [Obs.] 

NOBILITATION:  The act of making noble. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

NOBLE:  A European fish; the lyrie. 

NOBLE:  To make noble; to ennoble. [Obs.] Thou nobledest so far forth our nature. Chaucer. 

NOBLEMAN:  One of the nobility; a noble; a peer; one who enjoys rank above a commoner, either by virtue of birth, by office, or by patent.  NOBLE-MINDED No"ble-mind`ed, a.  Having a noble mind; honorable; magnanimous.  -- No"ble-mind`ed*ness, n. 

NOBLENESS:  The quality or state of being noble; greatness; dignity; magnanimity; elevation of mind, character, or station; nobility; grandeur; stateliness. His purposes are full honesty, nobleness, and integrity. Jer. Taylor.  NOBLESS; NOBLESSE No*bless", No*blesse", n. Etym: [F. noblesse. See Noble.]  1. Dignity; greatness; noble birth or condition. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. B. Jonson.  2. The nobility; persons of noble rank collectively, including males and females. Dryden. 

NOBLEWOMAN:  A female of noble rank; a peeress. 

NOCAKE:  Indian corn parched, and beaten to powder, -- used for food by the Northern American Indians. 

NOCENT:  A criminal. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

NOCENTLY:  Hurtfully; injuriosly. [R.] 

NOCIVE:  Hurtful; injurious. [R.] Hooker. 

NOCK:  The upper fore corner of a boom sail or of a trysail. 

NOCK:  To notch; to fit to the string, as an arrow; to string, as a bow. Chapman. 

NOCTAMBULATION:  Somnambulism; walking in sleep. Quain. 

NOCTAMBULISM:  Somnambulism. 

NOCTAMBULIST:  A somnambulist. 

NOCTAMBULO:  A noctambulist. [Obs.] 

NOCTIDIAL:  Comprising a night and a day; a noctidial day. [R.] Holder. 

NOCTIFEROUS:  Bringing night. [Obs.] Johnson. 

NOCTILIONID:  A South American bat of the genus Noctilio, having cheek pouches and large incisor teeth. 

NOCTILUCA:  That which shines at night; -- a fanciful name for phosphorus.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of marine flagellate Infusoria, remarkable for their unusually large size and complex structure, as well as for their phosphorescence. The brilliant diffuse phosphorescence of the sea is often due to myriads of Noctilucæ. 

NOCTILUCIN:  A fatlike substance in certain marine animals, to which they owe their phosphorescent properties. 

NOCTILUCINE:  Of or pertaining to Noctiluca. 

NOCTILUCOUS:  Shining in the night. 

NOCTIVAGANT:  Going about in the night; night-wandering. 

NOCTIVAGATION:  A roving or going about in the night. Gayton. 

NOCTIVAGOUS:  Noctivagant. 

NOCTUARY:  A record of what passes in the night; a nightly journal; -- distinguished from diary. [R.] Addison. 

NOCTUID:  Any one of numerous moths of the family Noctuidæ, or Noctuælitæ, as the cutworm moths, and armyworm moths; -- so called because they fly at night.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to the noctuids, or family Noctuidæ. 

NOCTULE:  A large European bat (Vespertilio, or Noctulina, altivolans). 

NOCTURNAL:  An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of the stars, etc., at sea. I. Watts. 

NOCTURNALLY:  By night; nightly. 

NOCTURNE:  A night piece, or serenade. The name is now used for a certain graceful and expressive form of instrumental composition, as the nocturne for orchestra in Mendelsohn's "Midsummer-Night's Dream" music. 

NOCUMENT:  Harm; injury; detriment. [Obs.] 

NOCUOUS:  Hurtful; noxious. [R.] -- Noc"u*ous*ly, adv. [R.] 

NODAL:  Of the nature of, or relating to, a node; as, a nodal point. Nodal line, Nodal point, in a vibrating plate or cord, that line or point which remains at rest while the other parts of the body are in a state of vibration. 

NODATED:  Knotted. Nodated hyperbola (Geom.), a certain curve of the third order having two branches which cross each other, forming a node. 

NODATION:  Act of making a knot, or state of being knotted. [R.] 

NODDER:  One who nods; a drowsy person. 

NODDING:  Curved so that the apex hangs down; having the top bent downward. 

NODICAL:  Of or pertaining to the nodes; from a node to the same node again; as, the nodical revolutions of the moon. Nodical month. See Lunar month, under Month. 

NODOSARINE:  Resembling in form or structure a foraminiferous shell of the genus Nodosaria.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  A foraminifer of the genus Nodosaria or of an allied genus. 

NODOSE:  Having nodes or prominences; having the alternate joints enlarged, as the antennæ of certain insects. 

NODOSITY:  Nodose; knotty; knotted. [Obs.] 

NODULAR:  Of, pertaining to, or in the form of, a nodule or knot. 

NODULE:  A rounded mass or irregular shape; a little knot or lump. 

NODULED:  Having little knots or lumps.  NODULOSE; NODULOUS Nod"u*lose`, Nod"u*lous, a. (Biol.)  Having small nodes or knots; diminutively nodose. 

NOEL:  Same as Nowel. 

NOEMATACHOGRAPH:  An instrument for determining and registering the duration of more or less complex operations of the mind. Dunglison.  NOEMATIC; NOEMATICAL No`e*mat"ic, No`e*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Noetic.]  Of or pertaining to the understanding. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

NOEMICS:  The science of the understanding; intellectual science. 

NOETIAN:  One of the followers of Noetus, who lived in the third century. He denied the distinct personality of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.  NOETIC; NOETICAL No*et"ic, No*et"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to the intellect; intellectual. I would employ the word noetic to express all those cognitions which originate in the mind itself. Sir W. Hamilton. 

NOF:  Not of; nor of. [Obs.] 

NOG:  A treenail to fasten the shores. 

NOG:  To fasten, as shores, with treenails. 

NOGGEN:  Made of hemp; hence, hard; rough; harsh. [Obs.] Johnson. 

NOGGING:  Rough brick masonry used to fill in the interstices of a wooden frame, in building. 

NOGHT:  Not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOIANCE:  Annoyance. [Obs.] Tusser. 

NOIE:  To annoy. See Noy. [Obs.] 

NOIER:  An annoyer. [Obs.] Tusser. 

NOIL:  A short or waste piece or knot of wool separated from the longer staple by combing; also, a similar piece or shred of waste silk. 

NOILS:  Waste and knots of wool removed by the comb; combings. 

NOINT:  To anoint. [Obs.] Sir T. North. 

NOIOUS:  Annoying; troublesome. [Obs.] 

NOISE:  To sound; to make a noise. Milton. 

NOISEFUL:  Loud; clamorous. [Obs.] Dryden. 

NOISELESS:  Making, or causing, no noise or bustle; without noise; silent; as, the noiseless foot of time. So noiseless would I live. Dryden. -- Noise"less*ly, adv.  -- Noise"less*ness, n. 

NOISETTE:  A hybrid rose produced in 1817, by a French gardener, Noisette, of Charleston, South Carolina, from the China rose and the musk rose. It has given rise to many fine varieties, as the Lamarque, the Marechal (or Marshal) Niel, and the Cloth of gold. Most roses of this class have clustered flowers and are of vigorous growth. P. Henderson. 

NOISILY:  In a noisy manner. 

NOISINESS:  The state or quality of being noisy. 

NOLDE:  Would not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOLE:  The head. [Obs.] Shak.  NOLI-ME-TANGERE No"li-me-tan"ge*re, n. Etym: [L., touch me not.]  1. (Bot.) (a) Any plant of a genus of herbs (Impatiens) having capsules which, if touched when ripe, discharge their seeds.  -- See Impatiens. (b) The squirting cucumber. See under Cucumber.  2. (Med.)  A name formerly applied to several varieties of ulcerous cutaneous diseases, but now restricted to Lupus exedens, an ulcerative affection of the nose. 

NOLITION:  Adverse action of will; unwillingness; -- opposed to Ant: volition. A nolition and a direct enmity against the lust. Jer. Taylor. 

NOLL:  The head; the noddle. [Obs.] 

NOLLEITY:  The state of being unwilling; nolition. [R.]  NOLLE PROSEQUI Nol"le pros"e*qui. Etym: [L., to be unwilling to prosecute.] (Law)  Will not prosecute; -- an entry on the record, denoting that a plaintiff discontinues his suit, or the attorney for the public a prosecution; either wholly, or as to some count, or as to some of several defendants.  NOLO CONTENDERE No"lo con*ten"de*re. Etym: [L., I do not wish to contend.] (Law)  A plea, by the defendant, in a criminal prosecution, which, without admitting guilt, subjects him to all the consequences of a plea of quilty.  NOL. PROS.; NOL PROS Nol. pros.  An abbrev. of Nolle prosequi.  NOL-PROS Nol`-pros", v. t. [imp. & p. p. -prossed; p. pr. & vb. n. -prossing.]  To discontinue by entering a nolle prosequi; to decline to prosecute. 

NOLT:  Neat cattle. [Prov. Eng.] 

NOM:  Name. Nom de guerre (, literally, war name; hence, a fictitious name, or one assumed for a time.  -- Nom de plume (, literally, pen name; hence, a name assumed by an author as his or her signature. 

NOMA:  See Canker, n., 1. 

NOMAD:  One of a race or tribe that has no fixed location, but wanders from place to place in search of pasture or game. 

NOMAD:  Roving; nomadic. 

NOMADE:  See Nomad, n. 

NOMADIAN:  A nomad. [R.] 

NOMADIC:  Of or pertaining to nomads, or their way of life; wandering; moving from place to place for subsistence; as, a nomadic tribe.  -- No*mad"ic*al*ly, adv. 

NOMADISM:  The state of being a nomad. 

NOMADIZE:  To lead the life of a nomad; to wander with flocks and herds for the sake of finding pasturage. The Vogules nomadize chiefly about the Rivers Irtish, Obi, Kama, and Volga. W. Tooke. 

NOMANCY:  The art or practice of divining the destiny of persons by the letters which form their names.  NO-MAN'S LAND No"-man's` land`.  1. (Naut.)  A space amidships used to keep blocks, ropes, etc.; a space on a ship belonging to no one in particular to care for.  2. Fig.: An unclaimed space or time. That no-man's land of twilight. W. Black. 

NOMARCH:  The chief magistrate of a nome or nomarchy. 

NOMARCHY:  A province or territorial division of a kingdom, under the rule of a nomarch, as in modern Greece; a nome. 

NOMBLES:  The entrails of a deer; the umbles. [Written also numbles.] Johnson. 

NOMBRIL:  A point halfway between the fess point and the middle base point of an escutcheon; -- called also navel point. See Escutcheon. 

NOME:  See Term.  NOME; NOMEN Nome, No"men, obs. p. p.  of Nim. Chaucer. 

NOMENCLATRESS:  A female nomenclator. 

NOMENCLATURAL:  Pertaining or according to a nomenclature. 

NOMIAL:  A name or term. 

NOMIC:  Customary; ordinary; -- applied to the usual English spelling, in distinction from strictly phonetic methods. H Sweet.  -- n.  Nomic spelling. A. J. Ellis. 

NOMINAL:  A verb formed from a noun.  3. A name; an appellation. A is the nominal of the sixth note in the natural diatonic scale. Moore (Encyc. of Music. ) 

NOMINALISM:  The principles or philosophy of the Nominalists. 

NOMINALIST:  One of a sect of philosophers in the Middle Ages, who adopted the opinion of Roscelin, that general conceptions, or universals, exist in name only. Reid. 

NOMINALISTIC:  Of or pertaining to the Nominalists. 

NOMINALIZE:  To convert into a noun. [Obs.] 

NOMINALLY:  In a nominal manner; by name; in name only; not in reality. Burke. 

NOMINATELY:  By name; particularly; namely. [Obs.] Spelman. 

NOMINATIVAL:  Of or pertaining to the nominative case. 

NOMINATIVE:  Giving a name; naming; designating; -- said of that case or form of a noun which stands as the subject of a finite verb.  -- n.  The nominative case. 

NOMINATIVELY:  In the manner of a nominative; as a nominative. 

NOMINATOR:  One who nominates. 

NOMINEE:  A person named, or designated, by another, to any office, duty, or position; one nominated, or proposed, by others for office or for election to office. 

NOMINOR:  A nominator. [Obs.] Bentham. 

NOMOCRACY:  Government in accordance with a system of law. Milman. 

NOMOGRAPHY:  A treatise on laws; an exposition of the form proper for laws. 

NOMOPELMOUS:  Having a separate and simple tendon to flex the first toe, or hallux, as do passerine birds. 

NOMOTHETE:  A lawgiver. [R.]  NOMOTHETIC; NOMOTHETICAL Nom`o*thet"ic, Nom`o*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Legislative; enacting laws; as, a nomothetical power. [R.] Bp. Barlow. 

NON:  No; not. See No, a. Chaucer.  NON- Non-. Etym: [L. non, OL. noenu, noenum, fr. neoenum, lit., not one. See None.]  A prefix used in the sense of not; un-; in-; as in nonattention, or non-attention, nonconformity, nonmetallic, nonsuit.  Note: The prefix non- may be joined to the leading word by means of a hyphen, or, in most cases, the hyphen may be dispensed with. The list of words having the prefix non- could easily be lengthened. 

NONABILITY:  An exception taken against a plaintiff in a cause, when he is unable legally to commence a suit. 

NONACCEPTANCE:  A neglect or refusal to accept. 

NONACID:  Destitute of acid properties; hence, basic; metallic; positive; -- said of certain atoms and radicals. 

NONACQUAINTANCE:  Want of acquaintance; the state of being unacquainted. 

NONACQUIESCENCE:  Refusal of acquiescence; failure to yield or comply. 

NONADMISSION:  Failure to be admitted. 

NONADULT:  Not adult; immature. 

NONAEROBIOTIC:  Capable of living without atmospheric oxygen; anaërobiotic. 

NONAGE:  The ninth part of movable goods, formerly payable to the clergy on the death of persons in their parishes. Mozley & W. 

NONAGE:  Time of life before a person becomes of age; legal immaturity; minority. The human mind . . . was still in its nonage. Coleridge. 

NONAGED:  Having the quality of nonage; being a minor; immature. W. Browne. 

NONAGENARIAN:  A person ninety years old. 

NONAGESIMAL:  Of or pertaining to the ninetieth degree or to a nonagesimal. 

NONAGESIMAL:  The middle or highest point of the part of the ecliptic which is at any given moment above the horizon. It is the ninetieth degree of the ecliptic, reckoned from the points in which it is intersected by the horizon. 

NONAGON:  A figure or polygon having nine sides and nine angles. 

NONAGRIAN:  Any moth of the genus Nonagria and allied genera, as the spindleworm and stalk borer. 

NONALIENATION:  Failure to alienate; also, the state of not being alienated. 

NONANE:  One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons C9H20 of the paraffin series; -- so called because of the nine carbon atoms in the molecule. Normal nonane is a colorless volatile liquid, an ingredient of ordinary kerosene. 

NONAPPEARANCE:  Default of apperance, as in court, to prosecute or defend; failure to appear. 

NONAPPOINTMENT:  Neglect of making appointment; failure to receive an appointment. 

NONARRIVAL:  Failure to arrive.  NON ASSUMPSIT Non` as*sump"sit. Etym: [L., he did not undertake.] (Law)  The general plea or denial in an action of assumpsit. 

NONATTENDANCE:  A failure to attend; omission of attendance; nonappearance. 

NONATTENTION:  Inattention. 

NONBITUMINOUS:  Containing no bitumen; not bituminous. 

NONCE:  The one or single occasion; the present call or purpose; -- chiefly used in the phrase for the nonce. The miller was a stout carl for the nones. Chaucer. And that he calls for drink, I 'll have prepared him A chalice for the nonce. Shak. Nonce word, "a word apparently employed only for the nonce". Murray (New English Dict. ). 

NONCHALANCE:  Indifference; carelessness; coolness. 

NONCHALANT:  Indifferent; careless; cool. 

NONCHALANTLY:  In a nonchalant, indifferent, or careless manner; coolly. 

NONCLAIM:  A failure to make claim within the time limited by law; omission of claim. 

NONCOHESION:  Want of cohesion. 

NONCOINCIDENCE:  Lack of coincidence. 

NONCOINCIDENT:  Not coincident. 

NONCOMBATANT:  Any person connected with an army, or within the lines of an army, who does not make it his business to fight, as any one of the medical officers and their assistants, chaplains, and others; also, any of the citizens of a place occupied by an army; also, any one holding a similar position with respect to the navy. 

NONCOMMISSIONED:  Not having a commission. Noncommissioned officer (Mil.), a subordinate officer not appointed by a commission from the chief executive or supreme authority of the State; but by the Secretary of War or by the commanding officer of the regiment. 

NONCOMMITTAL:  A state of not being committed or pledged; forbearance or refusal to commit one's self. Also used adjectively. 

NONCOMMUNION:  Neglect or failure of communion. 

NONCOMPLETION:  Lack of completion; failure to complete. 

NONCOMPLIANCE:  Neglect of compliance; failure to comply. 

NONCOMPLYING:  Neglecting or refusing to comply.  NON COMPOS; NON COMPOS MENTIS Non com"pos. Non com"pos men"tis.Etym: [L.]  Not of sound mind; not having the regular use of reason; hence, also, as a noun, an idiot; a lunati  NONCON. Non"con. (, n.  See Noncontent. 

NONCONCLUDING:  Not concluding. 

NONCONCUR:  To dissent or refuse to concur. 

NONCONCURRENCE:  Refusal to concur. 

NONCONDENSIBLE:  Not condensible; incapable of being liquefied; -- said of gases. 

NONCONDENSING:  Not condensing; discharging the steam from the cylinder at a pressure nearly equal to or above that of the atmosphere and not into a condenser. 

NONCONDUCTING:  Not conducting; not transmitting a fluid or force; thus, in electricity, wax is a nonconducting substance. 

NONCONDUCTION:  The quality of not being able to conduct or transmit; failure to conduct. 

NONCONDUCTOR:  A substance which does not conduct, that is, convey or transmit, heat, electricity, sound, vibration, or the like, or which transmits them with difficulty; an insulator; as, wool is a nonconductor of heat; glass and dry wood are nonconductors of electricity. 

NONCONFORMING:  Not conforming; declining conformity; especially, not conforming to the established church of a country. 

NONCONFORMIST:  One who does not conform to an established church; especially, one who does not conform to the established church of England; a dissenter. 

NONCONFORMITY:  Neglect or failure of conformity; especially, in England, the neglect or refusal to unite with the established church in its rites and modes of worship. 

NONCONSTAT:  It does not appear; it is not plain or clear; it does not follow. 

NONCONTAGIOUS:  Not contagious; not catching; not communicable by contact.  -- Non`con*ta"gious*ness, n. 

NONCONTENT:  One who gives a negative vote; -- sometimes abridged into noncon. or non con.  NONCONTRIBUTING; NONCONTRIBUTORY Non`con*trib"u*ting, Non`con*trib"u*to*ry, a.  Not contributing. 

NONDA:  The edible plumlike fruit of the Australian tree, Parinarium Nonda. 

NONDECANE:  A hydrocarbon of the paraffin series, a white waxy substance, C19H40; -- so called from the number of carbon atoms in the molecule. 

NONDECIDUATE:  Characterized by the absence of a decidua; indeciduate. 

NONDELIVERY:  A neglect or failure of delivery; omission of delivery. 

NONDEPOSITION:  A failure to deposit or throw down. 

NONDESCRIPT:  Not hitherto described; novel; hence, odd; abnormal; unclassifiable. 

NONDESCRIPT:  A thing not yet described; that of which no account or explanation has been given; something abnormal, or hardly classifiable. 

NONDEVELOPMENT:  Failure or lack of development. 

NONDISCOVERY:  Want or failure of discovery. 

NONDO:  A coarse umbelliferous plant (Ligusticum actæifolium) with a large aromatic root. It is found chiefly in the Alleghany region. Also called Angelico. 

NONE:  Same as Nones, 2. 

NONEFFECTIVE:  Not fit or available for duty.  NON-EGO Non-e"go, n. Etym: [L., not I.] (Metaph.)  The union of being and relation as distinguished from, and contrasted with, the ego. See Ego. 

NONELASTIC:  Not having elasticity. 

NONELECT:  A person or persons not elected, or chosen, to salvation. 

NONELECTION:  Failure of election.  NONELECTRIC; NONELECTRICAL Non`e*lec"tric, Non`e*lec"tric*al, a.  Not electric; conducting electricity. 

NONELECTRIC:  A substance that is not an electric; that which transmits electricity, as a metal.  NONEMPHATIC; NONEMPHATICAL Non`em*phat"ic, Non`em*phat"ic*al, a.  Having no emphasis; unemphatic. 

NONENTITY:  Not Episcopal; not pertaining to the Episcopal church or system. 

NONES:  The fifth day of the months January, February, April, June, August, September, November, and December, and the seventh day of March, May, July, and October. The nones were nine days before the ides, reckoning inclusively, according to the Roman method.  2. Etym: [F. none, fr. L. See Noon.]  The canonical office, being a part of the Breviary, recited at noon (formerly at the ninth hour, 3 P. M.) in the Roman Catholic Church.  3. The hour of dinner; the noonday meal. [Obs.] At my supper and sometimes at nones. P. Plowman. 

NONESSENTIAL:  Not essential. 

NONESSENTIAL:  A thing not essential.  NON EST FACTUM Non` est` fac"tum. Etym: [Law L. it is not (his) deed.] (Law)  The plea of the general issue in an action of debt on bond.  NON EST INVENTUS Non` est` in*ven"tus. Etym: [L., he is not found.] (Law)  The return of a sheriff on a writ, when the defendant is not found in his county. Bouvier. 

NONESUCH:  A person or thing of a sort that there is no other such; something extraordinary; a thing that has not its equal. It is given as a name to various objects, as to a choice variety of apple, a species of medic (Medicago lupulina), a variety of pottery clay, etc.  NONET; NONETTO No*net", No*net"to, n. Etym: [From L. nonus ninth, like E. duet, fr. L. duo.] (Mus.)  A composition for nine instruments, rarely for nine voices. 

NONETT:  The titmouse. [Obs.] 

NONEXECUTION:  Neglect or failure of execution; nonperformance. 

NONEXISTENT:  Not having existence. 

NONEXPORTATION:  A failure of exportation; a not exporting of commodities. 

NONEXTENSILE:  Not extensile; incapable of being stretched.  NON-FEASANCE Non-fea"sance, n. Etym: [Pref. non- + OF. faisance a doing, fr. faire to do.] (Law)  An omission or neglect to do something, esp. that which ought to have been done. Cf. Malfeasance. 

NONFULFILLMENT:  Neglect or failure to fulfill. 

NONILLION:  According to the French and American notation, a thousand octillions, or a unit with thirty ciphers annexed; according to the English notation, a million octillions, or a unit with fifty-four ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration. 

NONIMPORTATION:  Want or failure of importation; a not importing of commodities. 

NONIMPORTING:  Not importing; not bringing from foreign countries. 

NONINFLECTIONAL:  Not admitting of, or characterized by, inflection. 

NONINHABITANT:  One who is not an inhabitant; a stranger; a foreigner; a nonresident. 

NONINTERVENTION:  The state or habit of not intervening or interfering; as, the nonintervention of one state in the affairs of another. 

NONIUS:  A vernier. 

NONJOINDER:  The omission of some person who ought to have been made a plaintiff or defendant in a suit, or of some cause of action which ought to be joined. 

NONJURANT:  Nonjuring. 

NONJURING:  Not swearing allegiance; -- applied to the party in Great Britain that would not swear allegiance to William and Mary, or their successors. 

NONJUROR:  One of those adherents of James II. who refused to take the oath of allegiance to William and Mary, or to their successors, after the revolution of 1688; a Jacobite. 

NONJURORISM:  The doctrines, or action, of the Nonjurors. 

NONLIMITATION:  Want of limitation; failure to limit.  NON LIQUET Non` li"quet. Etym: [L.]  It is not clear; -- a verdict given by a jury when a matter is to be deferred to another day of trial. 

NONMALIGNANT:  Not malignant, as a disease. 

NONMANUFACTURING:  Not carrying on manufactures. 

NONMEDULLATED:  Not medullated; (Anat.) without a medulla or marrow, or without a medullary sheath; as, a nonmedullated nerve fiber. 

NONMEMBER:  One who is not a member. 

NONMEMBERSHIP:  State of not being a member. 

NONMETAL:  Any one of the set of elements which, as contrasted with the metals, possess, produce, or receive, acid rather than basic properties; a metalloid; as, oxygen, sulphur, and chlorine are nonmetals. 

NONMETALLIC:  Resembling, or possessing the properties of, a nonmetal or metalloid; as, sulphur is a nonmetallic element. 

NONMORAL:  Not moral nor immoral; having no connection with morals; not in the sphere of morals or ethics; not ethical. 

NONNATURAL:  Not natural; unnatural. 

NONNE:  A nun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NONNECESSITY:  Absence of necessity; the quality or state of being unnecessary. 

NONNITROGNOUS:  Devoid of nitrogen; as, a nonnitrogenous principle; a nonnitrogenous food. See the Note under Food, n., 1. 

NONNUCLEATED:  Without a nucleus. 

NONNY:  A silly fellow; a ninny. 

NONOBEDIENCE:  Neglect of obedience; failure to obey. 

NONOBSERVANCE:  Neglect or failure to observe or fulfill.  NON OBSTANTE Non` ob*stan"te. Etym: [L.]  1. Notwithstanding; in opposition to, or in spite of, what has been stated, or is to be stated or admitted.  2. (Law)  A clause in old English statutes and letters patent, importing a license from the crown to do a thing notwithstanding any statute to the contrary. This dispensing power was abolished by the Bill of Rights. In this very reign [Henry III.] the practice of dispensing with statutes by a non obstante was introduced. Hallam. Non obstante veredicto Etym: [LL.] (Law), a judgment sometimes entered by order of the court, for the plaintiff, notwithstanding a verdict for the defendant. Stephen. 

NONOIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, nonane; as, nonoic acid, which is also called pelargonic acid. Cf. Pelargonic. 

NONONE:  Any one of several metameric unsaturated hydrocarbons (C9H14) of the valylene series. 

NONOXYGENOUS:  Without oxygen; characterized by the absence of oxygen; as, a nonoxygenous alkaloid. 

NONPAREIL:  A size of type next smaller than minion and next larger than agate (or ruby).  Note: This line is printed in the type called nonpareil.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) A beautifully colored finch (Passerina ciris), native of the Southern United States. The male has the head and neck deep blue, rump and under parts bright red, back and wings golden green, and the tail bluish purple. Called also painted finch. (b) Any other similar bird of the same genus. 

NONPAREIL:  Having no equal; peerless. 

NONPAYMENT:  Neglect or failure to pay. 

NONPERFORMANCE:  Neglect or failure to perform. 

NONPHOTOBIOTIC:  Capable of living without light; as, nonphotobiotic plant cells, or cells which habitually live in darkness. 

NONPLANE:  Not lying in one plane; -- said of certain curves. 

NONPLUS:  A state or condition which daffles reason or confounds judgment; insuperable difficalty; inability to proceed or decide; puzzle; quandary. Both of them are a perfect nonplus and baffle to all human understanding. South. 

NONPLUS:  To puzzle; to confound; to perplex; to cause to stop by embarrassment. He has been nonplused by Mr. Dry's desiring him to tell what it was that he endeavored to prove. Spectator. 

NONPREPARATION:  Neglect or failure to prepare; want of preparation. 

NONPRESENTATION:  Neglect or failure to present; state of not being presented. 

NONPRODUCTION:  A failure to produce or exhibit. 

NONPROFESSIONAL:  Not belonging to a profession; not done by, or proceeding from, professional men; contrary to professional usage. 

NONPROFICIENCY:  Want of proficiency; failure to make progress. 

NONPROFICIENT:  One who has failed to become proficient.  NON PROS. Non" pros.` (.  An abbreviation of Non prosequitur.  NON-PROS Non`-pros", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nonprossed; p. pr. & vb. n. Non- prossing.]  To decline or fail to prosecute; to allow to be dropped (said of a suit); to enter judgment against (a plaintiff who fails to prosecute); as, the plaintiff was non-prossed.  NON PROSEQUITUR Non" pro*seq"ui*tur. Etym: [L. he does not prosecute.] (Law)  A judgment entered against the plaintiff in a suit where he does not appear to prosecute. See Nolle prosequi. 

NONRECURRENT:  Not recurring. 

NONRECURRING:  Nonrecurrent. 

NONREGARDANCE:  Want of due regard; disregard; slight. [Obs.] Shak. 

NONREGENT:  A master of arts whose regency has ceased. See Regent. 

NONRENDITION:  Neglect of rendition; the not rendering what is due. The nonrendition of a service which is due. S. E. Dwight. 

NONRESEMBLANCE:  Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilarity. 

NONRESIDENCE:  The state or condition of being nonresident, Swift. 

NONRESIDENT:  Not residing in a particular place, on one's own estate, or in one's proper place; as, a nonresident clergyman or proprietor of lands. 

NONRESIDENT:  A nonresident person; one who does not reside in the State or jurisdiction. 

NONRESISTANCE:  The principles or practice of a nonresistant; passive obedience; submission to authority, power, oppression, or violence without opposition. 

NONRESISTANT:  Making no resistance. 

NONRESISTANT:  One who maintains that no resistance should be made to constituted authority, even when unjustly or oppressively exercised; one who advocates or practices absolute submission; also, one who holds that violence should never be resisted by force. 

NONRESISTING:  Not making resistance. 

NONRUMINANT:  Not ruminating; as, a nonruminant animal. 

NONSANE:  Unsound; not perfect; as, a person of nonsane memory. Blackstone. 

NONSENSICAL:  Without sense; unmeaning; absurb; foolish; irrational; preposterous.  -- Non*sen"si*cal*ly, adv.  -- Non*sen"si*cal*ness, n. 

NONSENSITIVE:  Not sensitive; wanting sense or perception; not easily affected.  NON SEQUITUR Non seq"ui*tur. Etym: [L., it does not follow.] (Logic)  An inference which does not follow from the premises. 

NONSEXUAL:  Having no distinction of sex; sexless; neuter. 

NONSLAVEHOLDING:  Not possessing or holding slaves; as, a nonslaveholding State. 

NONSOLUTION:  Failure of solution or explanation. 

NONSOLVENCY:  Inability to pay debts; insolvency. 

NONSOLVENT:  Not solvent; insolvent. 

NONSOLVENT:  An insolvent. 

NONSONANT:  Not sonant.  -- n.  A nonsonant or nonvocal consonant. 

NONSPARING:  Sparing none. 

NONSTRIATED:  Without striations; unstriped; as, nonstriated muscle fibers. 

NONSUBMISSION:  Want of submission; failure or refusal to submit. 

NONSUBMISSIVE:  Not submissive. 

NONSUCH:  See Nonesuch. 

NONSUIT:  A neglect or failure by the plaintiff to follow up his suit; a stopping of the suit; a renunciation or withdrawal of the cause by the plaintiff, either because he is satisfied that he can not support it, or upon the judge's expressing his opinion. A compulsory nonsuit is a nonsuit ordered by the court on the ground that the plaintiff on his own showing has not made out his case. 

NONSUIT:  To determine, adjudge, or record (a plaintiff) as having dropped his suit, upon his withdrawal or failure to follow it up. "When two are joined in a writ, and one is nonsuited." Z. Swift. 

NONSUIT:  Nonsuited. D. A. Tyng. 

NONSURETY:  Insecurity. [Obs.] 

NONTENURE:  A plea of a defendant that he did not hold the land, as affirmed. 

NONTERM:  A vacation between two terms of a court. 

NONTOXIC:  Not toxic. 

NONTRONITE:  A greenish yellow or green mineral, consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of iron. 

NONUNIFORMIST:  One who believes that past changes in the structure of the earth have proceeded from cataclysms or causes more violent than are now operating; -- called also nonuniformitarian. 

NONUNIONIST:  One who does not belong, or refuses to belong, to a trades union. 

NONUSANCE:  Neglect of using; failure to use. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

NONUSER:  Neglect or omission to use an easement or franchise or to assert a right. Kent. 

NONVASCULAR:  Destitute of vessels; extravascular. 

NONVERNACULAR:  Not vernacular. A nonvernacular expression. Sir W. Hamilton. 

NONVOCAL:  Not vocal; destitute of tone.  -- n.  A nonvocal consonant. 

NONYL:  The hydrocarbon radical, C9H19, derived from nonane and forming many compounds. Used also adjectively; as, nonyl alcohol. 

NONYLENE:  Any one of a series of metameric, unsaturated hydrocarbons C9H18 of the ethylene series. 

NONYLENIC:  Of, pertaining to, related to, or designating, nonylene or its compounds; as, nonylenic acid. 

NONYLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, nonyl or its compounds; as, nonylic acid. 

NOODLE:  A simpleton; a blockhead; a stupid person; a ninny. [Low] The chuckling grin of noodles. Sydney Smith. 

NOODLE:  A thin strip of dough, made with eggs, rolled up, cut into small pieces, and used in soup. 

NOOK:  A narrow place formed by an angle in bodies or between bodies; a corner; a recess; a secluded retreat. How couldst thou find this dark, sequestered nook Milton.  NOOK-SHOTTEN Nook"-shot`ten, a.  Full of nooks, angles, or corners. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] That nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak.  NOOLOGICAL; NOOELOGICAL No`ö*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to noölogy.  NOOLOGIST; NOOELOGIST No*öl"o*gist, n.  One versed in noölogy.  NOOLOGY; NOOELOGY No*öl"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]  The science of intellectual phenomena. 

NOON:  No. See the Note under No. [Obs.] 

NOON:  Belonging to midday; occurring at midday; meridional. Young. 

NOON:  To take rest and refreshment at noon. 

NOONDAY:  Midday; twelve o'clock in the day; noon. 

NOONDAY:  Of or pertaining to midday; meridional; as, the noonday heat. "Noonday walks." Addison.  NOON-FLOWER Noon"-flow`er, n. (Bot.)  The goat's beard, whose flowers close at midday. 

NOONING:  A rest at noon; a repast at noon. 

NOONSHUN:  See Nunchion. Nares. 

NOONSTEAD:  The position of the sun at noon. [Obs.] Drayton. 

NOONTIDE:  The time of noon; midday. 

NOOSE:  A running knot, or loop, which binds the closer the more it is drawn. 

NOOSE:  To tie in a noose; to catch in a noose; to entrap; to insnare. 

NOOT:  See lst Not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOPAL:  A cactaceous plant (Nopalea cochinellifera), originally Mexican, on which the cochineal insect feeds, and from which it is collected. The name is sometimes given to other species of Cactaceæ. 

NOPALRY:  A plantation of the nopal for raising the cochineal insect. 

NOPE:  A bullfinch. [Prov. Eng.] 

NOR:  A negative connective or particle, introducing the second member or clause of a negative proposition, following neither, or not, in the first member or clause (as or in affirmative propositions follows either). Nor is also used sometimes in the first member for neither, and sometimes the neither is omitted and implied by the use of nor. Provide neither gold nor silver, nor brass, in your purses, nor scrip for your journey. Matt. x. 9, 10. Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt. Matt. vi. 20. I love him not, nor fear him. Shak. Where neither party is nor true, nor kind. Shak. Simois nor Xanthus shall be wanting there. Dryden. 

NORBERTINE:  See Premonstrant. 

NORFOLK:  Short for Norfolk Jacket.  NORFOLK DUMPLING Norfolk dumpling. (Eng.)  (a) A kind of boiled dumpling made in Norfolk.  (b) A native or inhabitant of Norfolk.  NORFOLK JACKET Norfolk jacket.  A kind of loose-fitting plaited jacket, having a loose belt.  NORFOLK PLOVER Norfolk plover.  The stone curlew.  NORFOLK SPANIEL Norfolk spaniel.  One of a breed of field spaniels similar to the clumbers, but shorter in body and of a liver-and-white or black-and-white color. 

NORIA:  A large water wheel, turned by the action of a stream against its floats, and carrying at its circumference buckets, by which water is raised and discharged into a trough; used in Arabia, China, and elsewhere for irrigating land; a Persian wheel. 

NORIAN:  Pertaining to the upper portion of the Laurentian rocks. T. S. Hunt. 

NORICE:  Nurse. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NORIE:  The cormorant. [Prov. Eng.] 

NORIMON:  A Japanese covered litter, carried by men. B. Taylor. 

NORITE:  A granular crystalline rock consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar (as labradorite) and hypersthene. 

NORIUM:  A supposed metal alleged to have been discovered in zircon. 

NORLANDER:  A northener; a person from the north country. 

NORM:  A typical, structural unit; a type. Agassiz. 

NORMAL:  According to a square or rule; perpendicular; forming a right angle. Specifically: Of or pertaining to a normal.  3. (Chem.)  Standard; original; exact; typical. Specifically: (a) (Quantitative Analysis) Denoting a solution of such strength that every cubic centimeter contains the same number of milligrams of the element in question as the number of its molecular weight. (b) (Chem.)  Denoting certain hypothetical compounds, as acids from which the real acids are obtained by dehydration; thus, normal sulphuric acid and normal nitric acid are respectively S(OH)6, and N(OH)5. (c) (Organ. Chem.) Denoting that series of hydrocarbons in which no carbon atom is united with more than two other carbon atoms; as, normal pentane, hexane, etc. Cf. Iso-. Normal equations (Method of Least Squares), a set of equations of the first degree equal in number to the number of unknown quantities, and derived from the observations by a specified process. The solution of the normal equations gives the most probable values of the unknown quantities.  -- Normal group (Geol.), a group of rocks taken as a standard. Lyell.  -- Normal place (of a planet or comet) (Astron.), the apparent place in the heavens of a planet or comet at a specified time, the place having been determined by a considerable number of observations, extending perhaps over many days, and so combined that the accidental errors of observation have largely balanced each other.  -- Normal school, a school whose methods of instruction are to serve as a model for imitation; an institution for the training of teachers.  Syn.  -- Normal, Regular, Ordinary. Regular and ordinary are popular terms of well-known signification; normal has now a more specific sense, arising out of its use in science. A thing is normal, or in its normal state, when strictly conformed to those principles of its constitution which mark its species or to the standard of a healthy and natural condition. It is abnormal when it departs from those principles. 

NORMAL:  A straight line or plane drawn from any point of a curve or surface so as to be perpendicular to the curve or surface at that point.  Note: The term normal is also used to denote the distance along the normal line from the curve to the axis of abscissas or to the center of curvature. 

NORMALCY:  The quality, state, or fact of being normal; as, the point of normalcy. [R.] 

NORMALIZATION:  Reduction to a standard or normal state. 

NORMALLY:  In a normal manner. Darwin. 

NORMAN:  A wooden bar, or iron pin. W. C. Russell. 

NORMAN:  Of or pertaining to Normandy or to the Normans; as, the Norman language; the Norman conquest. Norman style (Arch.), a style of architecture which arose in the tenth century, characterized by great massiveness, simplicity, and strength, with the use of the semicircular arch, heavy round columns, and a great variety of ornaments, among which the zigzag and spiral or cable-formed ornaments were prominent. 

NORMAN:  A native or inhabitant of Normandy; originally, one of the Northmen or Scandinavians who conquered Normandy in the 10th century; afterwards, one of the mixed (Norman-French) race which conquered England, under William the Conqueror. 

NORMANISM:  A Norman idiom; a custom or expression peculiar to the Normans. M. Arnold.  NORN; NORNA Norn, Nor"na, n. Etym: [Icel. norn, pl. nornir.]  1. (Scandinavian Myth.)  One of the three Fates, Past, Present, and Future. Their names were Urd, Verdandi, and Skuld.  2. A tutelary deity; a genius. 

NOROPIANIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the aromatic series obtained from opianic acid. 

NORROY:  The most northern of the English Kings-at-arms. See King-at- arms, under King. 

NORSE:  Of or pertaining to ancient Scandinavia, or to the language spoken by its inhabitants. 

NORSE:  The Norse language. 

NORSEMAN:  One of the ancient Scandinavians; a Northman. 

NORTELRY:  Nurture; education; culture; bringing up. [Obs.] Nortelry . . . learned at the nunnery. Chaucer. 

NORTH:  Lying toward the north; situated at the north, or in a northern direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the north, or coming from the north. North following. See Following, a., 2.  -- North pole, that point in the heavens, or on the earth, ninety degrees from the equator toward the north.  -- North preceding. See Following, a., 2.  -- North star, the star toward which the north pole of the earth very nearly points, and which accordingly seems fixed and immovable in the sky. The star a (alpha) of the Little Bear, is our present north star, being distant from the pole about 1º 25', and from year to year approaching slowly nearer to it. It is called also Cynosura, polestar, and by astronomers, Polaris. 

NORTH:  To turn or move toward the north; to veer from the east or west toward the north. 

NORTH:  Northward. 

NORTHEAST:  The point between the north and east, at an equal distance from each; the northeast part or region. 

NORTHEAST:  Of or pertaining to the northeast; proceeding toward the northeast, or coming from that point; as, a northeast course; a northeast wind. Northeast passage, a passage or communication by sea between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans along the north coast of Asia. 

NORTHEAST:  Toward the northeast. 

NORTHEASTER:  A storm, strong wind, or gale, coming from the northeast. 

NORTHEASTERLY:  Pertaining to the northeast; toward the northeast, or coming from the northeast. 

NORTHEASTERLY:  Toward the northeast. 

NORTHEASTERN:  Of or pertaining to the northeast; northeasterly.  NORTHEASTWARD; NORTHEASTWARDLY North`east"ward, North`east"ward*ly, adv.  Toward the northeast. 

NORTHER:  A wind from the north; esp., a strong and cold north wind in Texas and the vicinity of the Gulf of Mexico. 

NORTHERLINESS:  The quality or state of being northerly; direction toward the north. 

NORTHERLY:  Of or pertaining to the north; toward the north, or from the north; northern. 

NORTHERLY:  Toward the north. 

NORTHERNLY:  Northerly. [Obs.] Hakewill. 

NORTHERNMOST:  Farthest north. 

NORTHING:  Distance northward from any point of departure or of reckoning, measured on a meridian; -- opposed to Ant: southing.  2. (Astron.)  The distance of any heavenly body from the equator northward; north declination. 

NORTHMAN:  One of the inhabitants of the north of Europe; esp., one of the ancient Scandinavians; a Norseman. 

NORTHMOST:  Lying farthest north; northernmost. Northmost part of the coast of Mozambique. De Foe. 

NORTHNESS:  A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point to the north. Faraday.  NORTH STAR STATE North Star State.  Minnesota; -- a nickname. 

NORTHUMBRIAN:  Of or pertaining to Northumberland in England.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Northumberland. 

NORTHWARD:  Toward the north; nearer to the north than to the east or west point.  NORTHWARD; NORTHWARDS North"ward, North"wards, adv.  Toward the north, or toward a point nearer to the north than to the east or west point. 

NORTHWARDLY:  Having a northern direction. 

NORTHWARDLY:  In a northern direction. 

NORTHWEST:  The point in the horizon between the north and west, and equally distant from each; the northwest part or region. 

NORTHWEST:  Toward the northwest. 

NORTHWESTER:  A storm or gale from the northwest; a strong northwest wind. 

NORTHWESTERLY:  Toward the northwest, or from the northwest. 

NORTHWESTERN:  Of, pertaining to, or being in, the northwest; in a direction toward the northwest; coming from the northwest; northwesterly; as, a northwestern course.  NORTHWESTWARD; NORTHWESTWARDLY North`west"ward, North`west"ward*ly, adv.  Toward the northwest. 

NORWEGIAN:  Of or pertaining to Norway, its inhabitants, or its language. 

NORWEGIUM:  A rare metallic element, of doubtful identification, said to occur in the copper-nickel of Norway. 

NORWEYAN:  Norwegian. [Obs.] Shak. 

NOSE:  The prominent part of the face or anterior extremity of the head containing the nostrils and olfactory cavities; the olfactory organ. See Nostril, and Olfactory organ under Olfactory.  2. The power of smelling; hence, scent. We are not offended with a dog for a better nose than his master. Collier.  3. A projecting end or beak at the front of an object; a snout; a nozzle; a spout; as, the nose of a bellows; the nose of a teakettle. Nose bit (Carp.), a bit similar to a gouge bit, but having a cutting edge on one side of its boring end.  -- Nose hammer (Mach.), a frontal hammer.  -- Nose hole (Glass Making), a small opening in a furnace, before which a globe of crown glass is held and kept soft at the beginning of the flattening process.  -- Nose key (Carp.), a fox wedge.  -- Nose leaf (Zoöl.), a thin, broad, membranous fold of skin on the nose of many species of bats. It varies greatly in size and form.  -- Nose of wax, fig., a person who is pliant and easily influenced. "A nose of wax to be turned every way." Massinger -- Nose piece, the nozzle of a pipe, hose, bellows, etc.; the end piece of a microscope body, to which an objective is attached.  -- To hold, put, or bring one's nose to the grindstone. See under Grindstone.  -- To lead by the nose, to lead at pleasure, or to cause to follow submissively; to lead blindly, as a person leads a beast. Shak.  -- To put one's nose out of joint, to humiliate one's pride, esp. by supplanting one in the affections of another. [Slang] -- To thrust one's nose into, to meddle officiously in.  -- To wipe one's nose of, to deprive of; to rob. [Slang] 

NOSEBAG:  A bag in which feed for a horse, ox, or the like, may be fastened under the nose by a string passing over the head. 

NOSEBAND:  That part of the headstall of a bridle which passes over a horse's nose. 

NOSEBLEED:  The yarrow. See Yarrow. 

NOSED:  Having a nose, or such a nose; -- chieflay used in composition; as, pug-nosed. 

NOSEGAY:  A bunch of odorous and showy flowers; a bouquet; a posy. Pope. 

NOSEL:  To nurse; to lead or teach; to foster; to nuzzle. [Obs.] If any man use the Scripture . . . to nosel thee in anything save in Christ, he is a false prophet. Tyndale. 

NOSELESS:  Destitute of a nose. 

NOSESMART:  A kind of cress, a pungent cruciferous plant, including several species of the genus Nasturtium.  NOSETHIRL; NOSETHRIL Nose"thirl, Nose"thril, n.  Nostril. [Obs.] [Written also nosethurl, nosthrill.] Chaucer. 

NOSING:  That part of the treadboard of a stair which projects over the riser; hence, any like projection, as the projecting edge of a molding. 

NOSLE:  Nozzle. [Obs.] 

NOSOCOMIAL:  Of or pertaining to a hospital; as, nosocomial atmosphere. Dunglison. 

NOSOGRAPHY:  A description or classification of diseases. 

NOSOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to nosology. 

NOSOLOGIST:  One versed in nosology. 

NOSOPHEN:  An iodine compound obtained as a yellowish gray, odorless, tasteless powder by the action of iodine on phenolphthalein. 

NOSOPHOBIA:  Morbid dread of disease. 

NOSOPOETIC:  Producing diseases. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

NOST:  Wottest not; knowest not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOSTALGIA:  Homesickness; esp., a severe and sometimes fatal form of melancholia, due to homesickness. 

NOSTALGIC:  Of or pertaining to nostalgia; affected with nostalgia. 

NOSTALGY:  Same as Nostalgia. 

NOSTOC:  A genus of algæ. The plants are composed of moniliform cells imbedded in a gelatinous substance.  Note: Nostoc commune is found on the ground, and is ordinarily not seen; but after a rain it swells up into a conspicuous jellylike mass, whish was formerly supposed to have fallen from the sky, whence the popular names, fallen star and star jelly. Also called witches' butter. 

NOSTRIL:  One of the external openings of the nose, which give passage to the air breathed and to secretions from the nose and eyes; one of the anterior nares.  Note: In sperm whales, porpoises, and allied animals, there is only one nostril, which is situated on the top of the head and called a spiracle.  2. Perception; insight; acuteness. [Obs.] Methinks a man Of your sagacity and clear nostril should Have made another choice. B. Jonson. 

NOT:  Wot not; know not; knows not. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOT:  Shorn; shaven. [Obs.] See Nott. 

NOT:  A word used to express negation, prohibition, denial, or refusal. Not one word spake he more than was need. Chaucer. Thou shalt not steal. Ex. xx. 15. Thine eyes are upon me, and I am not. Job vii. 8. The question is, may I do it, or may I not do it Bp. Sanderson. Not . . . but, or Not but, only. [Obs. or Colloq.] Chaucer. 

NOTABILIA:  Things worthy of notice. 

NOTABLE:  One of a number of persons, before the revolution of 1789, chiefly of the higher orders, appointed by the king to constitute a representative body. 

NOTABLENESS:  The quality of being notable. 

NOTABLY:  In a notable manner. 

NOTAEUM:  The back or upper surface, as of a bird. 

NOTAL:  Of or pertaining to the back; dorsal. 

NOTANDUM:  A thing to be noted or observed; a notable fact; -- chiefly used in the plural. 

NOTARIAL:  Of or pertaining to a notary; done or taken by a notary; as, a notarial seal; notarial evidence or attestation. 

NOTARIALLY:  In a notarial manner. 

NOTARY:  A public officer who attests or certifies deeds and other writings, or copies of them, usually under his official seal, to make them authentic, especially in foreign countries. His duties chiefly relate to instruments used in commercial transactions, such as protests of negotiable paper, ship's papers in cases of loss, damage, etc. He is generally called a notary public. 

NOTATE:  Marked with spots or lines, which are often colored. Henslow. 

NOTCHBOARD:  The board which receives the ends of the steps in a staircase. 

NOTCHING:  A method of joining timbers, scantling, etc., by notching them, as at the ends, and overlapping or interlocking the notched portions.  4. (Engin.)  A method of excavating, as in a bank, by a series of cuttings side by side. See also Gulleting. 

NOTCHWEED:  A foul-smelling weed, the stinking goosefoot (Chenopodium Vulvaria). 

NOTE:  To butt; to push with the horns. [Prov. Eng.] 

NOTE:  Know not; knows not. [Obs.] 

NOTE:  Nut. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOTE:  Need; needful business. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOTE:  Hence, a writing intended to be used in speaking; memoranda to assist a speaker, being either a synopsis, or the full text of what is to be said; as, to preach from notes; also, a reporter's memoranda; the original report of a speech or of proceedings.  6. A short informal letter; a billet.  7. A diplomatic missive or written communication.  8. A written or printed paper acknowledging a debt, and promising payment; as, a promissory note; a note of hand; a negotiable note.  9. A list of items or of charges; an account. [Obs.] Here is now the smith's note for shoeing. Shak.  10. (Mus.) (a) A character, variously formed, to indicate the length of a tone, and variously placed upon the staff to indicate its pitch. Hence: (b) A musical sound; a tone; an utterance; a tune. (c) A key of the piano or organ. The wakeful bird . . . tunes her nocturnal note. Milton. That note of revolt against the eighteenth century, which we detect in Goethe, was struck by Winckelmann. W. Pater.  11. Observation; notice; heed. Give orders to my servants that they take No note at all of our being absent hence. Shak.  12. Notification; information; intelligence. [Obs.] The king . . . shall have note of this. Shak.  13. State of being under observation. [Obs.] Small matters . . . continually in use and in note. Bacon.  14. Reputation; distinction; as, a poet of note. There was scarce a family of note which had not poured out its blood on the field or the scaffold. Prescott.  15. Stigma; brand; reproach. [Obs.] Shak. Note of hand, a promissory note. 

NOTED:  Well known by reputation or report; eminent; celebrated; as, a noted author, or traveler.  -- Not"ed*ly, adv.  -- Not"ed*ness, n. 

NOTEFUL:  Useful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOTELESS:  Not attracting notice; not conspicuous. Noteless as the race from which he sprung. Sir W. Scott. 

NOTELESSNESS:  A state of being noteless. 

NOTELET:  A little or short note; a billet.  NOTE PAPER Note" pa`per.  Writing paper, not exceeding in size, when folded once, five by eight inches. 

NOTEWORTHY:  Worthy of observation or notice; remarkable. 

NOTHER:  Neither; nor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOTHING:  A cipher; naught. Nothing but, only; no more than. Chaucer.  -- To make nothing of. (a) To make no difficulty of; to consider as trifling or important. "We are industrious to preserve our bodies from slavery, but we make nothing of suffering our souls to be slaves to our lusts." Ray. (b) Not to understand; as, I could make nothing of what he said. 

NOTHING:  In no degree; not at all; in no wise. Adam, with such counsel nothing swayed. Milton. The influence of reason in producing our passions is nothing near so extensive as is commonly believed. Burke. Nothing off (Naut.), an order to the steersman to keep the vessel close to the wind. 

NOTHINGARIAN:  One of no certain belief; one belonging to no particular sect. 

NOTHINGISM:  Nihility; nothingness. [R.] 

NOTICEABLE:  Capable of being observed; worthy of notice; likely to attract observation; conspicous. A noticeable man, with large gray eyes. Wordsworth. 

NOTICEABLY:  In a noticeable manner. 

NOTICER:  One who notices. 

NOTIDANIAN:  Any one of several species of sharks of the family Notidanidæ, or Hexanchidæ. Called also cow sharks. See Shark. 

NOTIONALITY:  A notional or groundless opinion. [R.] Glanvill. 

NOTIONALLY:  In mental apprehension; in conception; not in reality. Two faculties . . . notionally or really distinct. Norris. 

NOTIONATE:  Notional. [R.] 

NOTIONIST:  One whose opinions are ungrounded notions. [R.] Bp. Hopkins. 

NOTIST:  An annotator. [Obs.] 

NOTOBRANCHIATE:  Of or pertaining to the Notobranchiata. 

NOTOCHORD:  An elastic cartilagelike rod which is developed beneath the medullary groove in the vertebrate embryo, and constitutes the primitive axial skeleton around which the centra of the vertebræ and the posterior part of the base of the skull are developed; the chorda dorsalis. See Illust. of Ectoderm. 

NOTOCHORDAL:  Of or pertaining to the notochord; having a notochord. 

NOTODONTIAN:  Any one of several species of bombycid moths belonging to Notodonta, Nerice, and allied genera. The caterpillar of these moths has a hump, or spine, on its back. 

NOTOPODIUM:  The dorsal lobe or branch of a parapodium. See Parapodium. 

NOTORHIZAL:  Having the radicle of the embryo lying against the back of one of the cotyledons; incumbent. 

NOTORIETY:  The quality or condition of being notorious; the state of being generally or publicly known; -- commonly used in an unfavorable sense; as, the notoriety of a crime. They were not subjects in their own nature so exposed to public notoriety. Addison. 

NOTORIOUS:  Generally known and talked of by the public; universally believed to be true; manifest to the world; evident; -- usually in an unfavorable sense; as, a notorious thief; a notorious crime or vice. Your goodness, Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious. Shak.  Syn.  -- Distinguished; remarkable; conspicuous; celebrated; noted; famous; renowned.  -- No*to"ri*ous*ly, adv.  -- No*to"ri*ous*ness, n. 

NOTORNIS:  A genus of birds allied to the gallinules, but having rudimentary wings and incapable of flight. Notornis Mantelli was first known as a fossil bird of New Zealand, but subsequently a few individuals were found living on the southern island. It is supposed to be now nearly or quite extinct. 

NOTOTHERIUM:  An extinct genus of gigantic herbivorous marsupials, found in the Pliocene formation of Australia. 

NOTOTREMA:  The pouched, or marsupial, frog of South America.  NOT-PATED; NOTT-PATED Not"-pat`ed, Nott"-pat`ed, a.  Same as Nott-headed. [Obs.] Shak. 

NOTSELF:  The negative of self. "A cognizance of notself." Sir. W. Hamilton. 

NOTT:  Shorn. [Obs.] 

NOTT:  To shear. [Obs.] Stow.  NOTT-HEADED Nott"-head`ed, a.  Having the hair cut close. [Obs.] Chapman. 

NOTTURNO:  Same as Nocturne. 

NOTUM:  The back. 

NOTUS:  The south wind. 

NOTWHEAT:  Wheat not bearded. Carew. 

NOTWITHSTANDING:  Without prevention, or obstruction from or by; in spite of. We gentil women bee Loth to displease any wight, Notwithstanding our great right. Chaucer's Dream. Those on whom Christ bestowed miraculous cures were so transported that their gratitude made them, notwithstanding his prohibition, proclaim the wonders he had done. Dr. H. More.  Note: Notwithstanding was, by Johnson and Webster, viewed as a participle absolute, an English equivalent of the Latin non obstante. Its several meanings, either as preposition, adverb, or conjunction, are capable of being explained in this view. Later grammarians, while admitting that the word was originally a participle, and can be treated as such, prefer to class it as a preposition or disjunctive conjunction.  Syn.  -- In spite of; despite.  -- Notwithstanding, In spite of, Despite. These words and phrases are often interchanged, but there is a difference between them, chiefly in strength. Notwithstanding is the weaker term, and simply points to some obstacle that may exist; as, I shall go, notwithstanding the rain. In spite or despite of has reference primarily to active opposition to be encountered from others; as, "I'll be, in man's despite, a monarch; " "I'll keep mine own, despite of all the world." Shak. Hence, these words, when applied to things, suppose greater opposition than notwithstanding. We should say. "He was thrust rudely out of doors in spite of his entreaties," rather than "notwithstanding". On the other hand, it would be more civil to say, "Notwithstanding all you have said, I must still differ with you." 

NOTWITHSTANDING:  Nevertheless; however; although; as, I shall go, notwithstanding it rains. I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and will give it to thy servant. Notwithstanding, in thy days I will not do it. 1 Kings xi. 11, 12. They which honor the law as an image of the wisdom of God himself, are, notwithstanding, to know that the same had an end in Christ. Hooker. You did wisely and honestly too, notwithstanding She is the greatest beauty in the parish. Fielding. Notwithstanding that, notwithstanding; although. These days were ages to him, notwithstanding that he was basking in the smiles of the pretty Mary. W. Irving. 

NOUCH:  An ouch; a jewel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOUGAT:  A cake, sweetmeat, or confectión made with almonds or other nuts. 

NOUGHT:  See Naught. Chaucer. 

NOULD:  Would not. [Obs.] "By those who nould repent." Fairfax. 

NOULE:  The top of the head; the head or noll. [Obs.] Spenser. 

NOUMENAL:  Of or pertaining to the noumenon; real; -- opposed to phenomenal. G. H. Lewes. 

NOUMENON:  The of itself unknown and unknowable rational object, or thing in itself, which is distinguished from the Ant: phenomenon through which it is apprehended by the senses, and by which it is interpreted and understood; -- so used in the philosophy of Kant and his followers. 

NOUN:  A word used as the designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in thought; a substantive.  Note: By some grammarians the term noun is so used as to include adjectives, as being descriptive; but in general it is limited to substantives. 

NOUNAL:  Of or pertaining to a noun. Verbs which in whole or in part have shed their old nounal coat. Earle. 

NOUNIZE:  To change (an adjective, verb, etc.) into a noun. Earle. 

NOURICE:  A nurse. [Obs.] Spenser. 

NOURISH:  A nurse. [Obs.] Hoolland. 

NOURISHER:  One who, or that which, nourishes. Milton. 

NOURISHING:  Promoting growth; nutritious, 

NOURISHINGLY:  Nutritively; cherishingly. 

NOURITURE:  Nurture. [Obs.] Spenser. 

NOURSLE:  To nurse; to rear; to bring up. [Obs.] [Written also nosel, nousel, nousle, nowsle, nusle, nuzzle, etc.] She noursled him till years he raught. Spenser. 

NOUS:  Intellect; understanding; talent; -- used humorously.  NOUSEL; NOUSLE Nous"el, Nou"sle, v. t. Etym: [See Noose.]  To insnare; to entrap. [Obs.] Johnson.  NOUTHE; NOWTHE Nou"the, Now"the, adv. Etym: [Now + the.]  Just now; at present. [Obs.] But thereof needeth not to speak as nouthe. Chaucer.  NOUVEAU RICHE; NOUVELLE RICHE Nou`veau" riche", m., Nou`velle" riche", f.; pl. m. Noveaux riches (#), f. Nouvelles riches (#). [F.]  A person newly rich. 

NOVA:  A new star, usually appearing suddenly, shining for a brief period, and then sinking into obscurity. Such appearances are supposed to result from cosmic collisions, as of a dark star with interstellar nebulosities. The most important modern novæ are: -- No"va Co*ro"næ Bo`re*a"lis [1866]; No"va Cyg"ni [1876]; No"va An*dro"me*dæ [1885]; No"va Au*ri"gæ [1891-92]; No"va Per"se*i [1901]. There are two novæ called Nova Persei. They are:  (a) A small nova which appeared in 1881.  (b) An extraordinary nova which appeared in Perseus in 1901. It was first sighted on February 22, and for one night (February 23) was the brightest star in the sky. By July it had almost disappeared, after which faint surrounding nebulous masses were discovered, apparently moving radially outward from the star at incredible velocity. 

NOVACULITE:  A variety of siliceous slate, of which hones are made; razor stone; Turkey stone; hone stone; whet slate. 

NOVATIAN:  One of the sect of Novatius, or Novatianus, who held that the lapsed might not be received again into communion with the church, and that second marriages are unlawful. 

NOVATIANISM:  The doctrines or principles of the Novatians. Milner. 

NOVATION:  A substitution of a new debt for an old one; also, the remodeling of an old obligation. 

NOVATOR:  An innovator. [Obs.] 

NOVEL:  Of recent origin or introduction; not ancient; new; hence, out of the ordinary course; unusual; strange; surprising.  Note: In civil law, the novel or new constitutions are those which are supplemental to the code, and posterior in time to the other books. These contained new decrees of successive emperors. Novel assignment (Law), a new assignment or specification of a suit.  Syn.  -- New; recent; modern; fresh; strange; uncommon; rare; unusual.  -- Novel, New . Everything at its first occurrence is new; that is novel which is so much out of the ordinary course as to strike us with surprise. That is a new sight which is beheld for the first time; that is a novel sight which either was never seen before or is seen but seldom. We have daily new inventions, but a novel one supposes some very peculiar means of attaining its end. Novel theories are regarded with distrust, as likely to prove more ingenious than sound. 

NOVEL:  News; fresh tidings. [Obs.] Some came of curiosity to hear some novels. Latimer.  3. A fictitious tale or narrative, professing to be conformed to real life; esp., one intended to exhibit the operation of the passions, and particularly of love. Dryden.  4. Etym: [L. novellae (sc. constitutiones): cf. F. novelles.] (Law)  A new or supplemental constitution. See the Note under Novel, a. 

NOVELETTE:  A short novel. 

NOVELISM:  Innovation. [Obs.] 

NOVELIST:  A writer of news. [Obs.] Tatler (178).  3. Etym: [Cf. F. nouvelliste.]  A writer of a novel or novels. 

NOVELIZE:  To innovate. [Obs.] 

NOVELRY:  Novelty; new things. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOVEMBER:  The eleventh month of the year, containing thirty days. 

NOVENARY:  Of or pertaining to the number nine. 

NOVENARY:  The number of nine units; nine, collectively. 

NOVENE:  Relating to, or dependent on, the number nine; novenary. [R.] The triple and novene division ran throughout. Milman. 

NOVENNIAL:  Done or recurring every ninth year. 

NOVERCAL:  Done or recurring every ninth year. 

NOVERCAL:  Of or pertaining to a stepmother; suitable to, or in the manner of, a stepmother. Derham. 

NOVICE:  One who enters a religious house, whether of monks or nuns, as a probationist. Shipley. No poore cloisterer, nor no novys. Chaucer. 

NOVICE:  Like a novice; becoming a novice. [Obs.] 

NOVICESHIP:  The state of being a novice; novitiate. 

NOVILUNAR:  Of or pertaining to the new moon. [R.] 

NOVITIOUS:  Newly invented; recent; new. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

NOVITY:  Newness; novelty. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

NOVUM:  A game at dice, properly called novem quinque (L., nine five), the two principal throws being nine and five. [Obs.] Shak. 

NOW:  Existing at the present time; present. [R.] "Our now happiness." Glanvill. 

NOW:  The present time or moment; the present. Nothing is there to come, and nothing past; But an eternal now does ever last. Cowley. 

NOWADAYS:  In these days; at the present time. What men of spirit, nowadays, Come to give sober judgment of new plays Garrick.  NOWAY; NOWAYS No"way`, No"ways`, adv. Etym: [No, a. + way. Cf. -wards.]  In no manner or degree; not at all; nowise. But Ireland will noways allow that name unto it. Fuller. 

NOWCH:  See Nouch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOWD:  The European gray gurnard (Trigla gurnardus). [Written also knoud.] 

NOWED:  Knotted; tied in a knot, as a serpent. 

NOWEL:  A kind of hymn, or canticle, of mediæval origin, sung in honor of the Nativity of our Lord; a Christmas carol. Grove. 

NOWES:  The marriage knot. [Obs.] Crashaw. 

NOWHERE:  Not anywhere; not in any place or state; as, the book is nowhere to be found. 

NOWHITHER:  Not anywhither; in no direction; nowhere. [Archaic] "Thy servant went nowhither." 2 Kings v. 25. 

NOWISE:  Not in any manner or degree; in no way; noways. Others whose case is nowise different. Earle. 

NOWT:  Neat cattle. 

NOWTHE:  See Nouthe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOY:  To annoy; to vex. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Piers Plowman. All that noyed his heavy spright. Spenser. 

NOY:  That which annoys. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

NOYADE:  A drowning of many persons at once, -- a method of execution practiced at Nantes in France during the Reign of Terror, by Jean Baptiste Carrier. 

NOYANCE:  , Annoyance. [Obs.] Spenser. 

NOYAU:  A cordial of brandy, etc., flavored with the kernel of the bitter almond, or of the peach stone, etc. 

NOYER:  An annoyer. [Obs.] Tusser. 

NOYFUL:  Full of annoyance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NOYLS:  See Noils. 

NOYOUS:  Annoying; disagreeable. [Obs.] Watch the noyous night, and wait for Spenser. 

NOZLE:  Nozzle. [Obs.] 

NUANCE:  A shade of difference; a delicate gradation. 

NUB:  To push; to nudge; also, to beckon. [Prov. Eng.] 

NUB:  A jag, or snag; a knob; a protuberance; also, the point or gist, as of a story. [Colloq.] 

NUBBIN:  A small or imperfect ear of maize. [Colloq. U. S.] 

NUBBLE:  To beat or bruise with the fist. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

NUBECULA:  Specifically, the Magellanic clouds.  2. (Med.) (a) A slight spot on the cornea. (b) A cloudy object or appearance in urine. Dunglison. 

NUBIA:  A light fabric of wool, worn on the head by women; a cloud. 

NUBIAN:  Of or pertaining to Nubia in Eastern Africa.  -- n.  A native of Nubia. 

NUBIFEROUS:  Bringing, or producing, clouds. 

NUBIGENOUS:  Born of, or produced from, clouds. [R.] 

NUBILATE:  To cloud. [Obs.] 

NUBILE:  Of an age suitable for marriage; marriageable. Prior. 

NUBILITY:  The state of being marriageable. [R.]  NUBILOSE; NUBILOUS Nu"bi*lose`, Nu"bi*lous, a. Etym: [L. nubilosus, nubilus, fr. nubes cloud.]  Cloudy. [R.] 

NUCAMENT:  A catkin or ament; the flower cluster of the hazel, pine, willow, and the like. 

NUCAMENTACEOUS:  Like a nut either in structure or in being indehiscent; bearing one-seeded nutlike fruits. [Written also nucumentaceous.] 

NUCELLUS:  See Nucleus, 3 (a). 

NUCHA:  The back or upper part of the neck; the nape. 

NUCHAL:  Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the back, or nape, of the neck; -- applied especially to the anterior median plate in the carapace of turtles. 

NUCIFEROUS:  Bearing, or producing, nuts. 

NUCIFORM:  Shaped like a nut; nut-shaped. 

NUCIN:  See Juglone.  NUCLEAL; NUCLEAR Nu"cle*al, Nu"cle*ar, a.  Of or pertaining to a nucleus; as, the nuclear spindle (see Illust. of Karyokinesis) or the nuclear fibrils of a cell; the nuclear part of a comet, etc. 

NUCLEATE:  Having a nucleus; nucleated. 

NUCLEATE:  To gather, as about a nucleus or center. 

NUCLEATED:  Having a nucleus; nucleate; as, nucleated cells. 

NUCLEIFORM:  Formed like a nucleus or kernel. 

NUCLEIN:  A constituent of the nuclei of all cells. It is a colorless amorphous substance, readily soluble in alkaline fluids and especially characterized by its comparatively large content of phosphorus. It also contains nitrogen and sulphur. 

NUCLEOBRANCH:  Belonging to the Nucleobranchiata.  -- n.  One of the Nucleobranchiata. 

NUCLEOBRANCHIATA:  See Heteropoda. 

NUCLEOIDIOPLASMA:  Hyaline plasma contained in the nucleus of vegetable cells. 

NUCLEOLAR:  Of or pertaining to the nucleolus of a cell. 

NUCLEOLATED:  Having a nucleole, or second inner nucleus. 

NUCLEOLE:  The nucleus within a nucleus; nucleolus. 

NUCLEOLUS:  A small rounded body contained in the nucleus of a cell or a protozoan.  Note: It was termed by Agassiz the entoblast. In the protozoa, where it may be situated on one side of the nucleus, it is sometimes called the endoplastule, and is supposed to be concerned in the male part of the reproductive process. See Nucleus. 

NUCLEOPLASM:  The matter composing the nucleus of a cell; the protoplasm of the nucleus; karyoplasma. 

NUCLEOPLASMIC:  Of or pertaining to nucleoplasm; -- esp. applied to a body formed in the developing ovum from the plasma of the nucleus of the germinal vesicle. 

NUCLEUS:  The body or the head of a comet.  3. (Bot.) (a) An incipient ovule of soft cellular tissue. (b) A whole seed, as contained within the seed coats.  4. (Biol.)  A body, usually spheroidal, in a cell or a protozoan, distinguished from the surrounding protoplasm by a difference in refrangibility and in behavior towards chemical reagents. It is more or less protoplasmic, and consists of a clear fluid (achromatin) through which extends a network of fibers (chromatin) in which may be suspended a second rounded body, the nucleolus (see Nucleoplasm). See Cell division, under Division.  Note: The nucleus is sometimes termed the endoplast or endoblast, and in the protozoa is supposed to be concerned in the female part of the reproductive process. See Karyokinesis.  5. (Zoöl.) (a) The tip, or earliest part, of a univalve or bivalve shell. (b) The central part around which additional growths are added, as of an operculum. (c) A visceral mass, containing the stomach and other organs, in Tunicata and some mollusks. 

NUCULA:  A genus of small marine bivalve shells, having a pearly interior. 

NUCULE:  Same as Nutlet. 

NUCUMENTACEOUS:  See Nucamentaceous. 

NUDATION:  The act of stripping, or making bare or naked. 

NUDDLE:  To walk quickly with the head bent forward; -- often with along. [Prov. Eng.] 

NUDE:  Naked; without consideration; void; as, a nude contract. See Nudum pactum. Blackstone. The nude, the undraped human figure in art.  -- Nude"ly, adv.- Nude"ness, n. 

NUDGE:  To touch gently, as with the elbow, in order to call attention or convey intimation. 

NUDGE:  A gentle push, or jog, as with the elbow. 

NUDIBRACHIATE:  Having tentacles without vibratile cilia. Carpenter. 

NUDIBRANCH:  Of or pertaining to the Nudibranchiata.  -- n.  One of the Nudibranchiata. 

NUDIBRANCHIATA:  A division of opisthobranchiate mollusks, having no shell except while very young. The gills are naked and situated upon the back or sides. See Ceratobranchia. 

NUDIBRANCHIATE:  Same as Nudibranch. 

NUDICAUL:  Having the stems leafless. 

NUDIFICATION:  The act of making nude. 

NUDITY:  A bare, naked contract, without any consideration. Tomlins. 

NUGACITY:  Futility; trifling talk or behavior; drollery. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

NUGAE:  Trifles; jests. 

NUGATION:  The act or practice of trifling. [R.] Bacon. 

NUGGET:  A lump; a mass, esp. a native lump of a precious metal; as, a nugget of gold. 

NUGIFY:  To render trifling or futile; to make silly. [R.] Coleridge. 

NUISANCE:  That which annoys or gives trouble and vexation; that which is offensive or noxious.  Note: Nuisances are public when they annoy citizens in general; private, when they affect individuals only. 

NUISANCER:  One who makes or causes a nuisance. 

NUL:  No; not any; as, nul disseizin; nul tort. 

NULL:  Of no legal or binding force or validity; of no efficacy; invalid; void; nugatory; useless. Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, Dead perfection; no more. Tennyson. 

NULL:  To annul. [Obs.] Milton. 

NULL:  One of the beads in nulled work. 

NULLAH:  A water course, esp. a dry one; a gully; a gorge; -- orig. an East Indian term.  E. Arnold. 

NULLED:  Turned so as to resemble nulls. Nulled work (Cabinetwork), ornamental turned work resembling nulls or beads strung on a rod. 

NULLIBIETY:  The state or condition of being nowhere. [Obs.] 

NULLIFICATION:  The act of nullifying; a rendering void and of no effect, or of no legal effect. Right of nullification (U. S. Hist.), the right claimed in behalf of a State to nullify or make void, by its sovereign act or decree, an enactment of the general government which it deems unconstitutional. 

NULLIFIDIAN:  Of no faith; also, not trusting to faith for salvation; -- opposed to Ant: solifidian. Feltham. 

NULLIFIDIAN:  An unbeliever. B. Jonson. 

NULLIFIER:  One who nullifies or makes void; one who maintains the right to nullify a contract by one of the parties. 

NULLIFY:  To make void; to render invalid; to deprive of legal force or efficacy. Such correspondence would at once nullify the conditions of the probationary system. I. Taylor.  Syn.  -- To abrogate; revoke; annul; repeal; invalidate; cancel. See Abolish. 

NULLIPORE:  A name for certain crustaceous marine algæ which secrete carbonate of lime on their surface, and were formerly thought to be of animal nature. They are now considered corallines of the genera Melobesia and Lithothamnion. 

NULLITY:  Nonexistence; as, a decree of nullity of marriage is a decree that no legal marriage exists.  3. That which is null. Was it not absurd to say that the convention was supreme in the state, and yet a nullity Macaulay. 

NUMB:  To make numb; to deprive of the power of sensation or motion; to render senseless or inert; to deaden; to benumb; to stupefy. For lazy winter numbs the laboring hand. Dryden. Like dull narcotics, numbing pain. Tennyson. 

NUMBEDNESS:  Numbness. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

NUMBER:  The distinction of objects, as one, or more than one (in some languages, as one, or two, or more than two), expressed (usually) by a difference in the form of a word; thus, the singular number and the plural number are the names of the forms of a word indicating the objects denoted or referred to by the word as one, or as more than one.  9. (Math.)  The measure of the relation between quantities or things of the same kind; that abstract species of quantity which is capable of being expressed by figures; numerical value. Abstract number, Abundant number, Cardinal number, etc. See under Abstract, Abundant, etc.  -- In numbers, in numbered parts; as, a book published in numbers. 

NUMBERER:  One who numbers. 

NUMBERFUL:  Numerous. [Obs.] 

NUMBERLESS:  Innumerable; countless. 

NUMBEROUS:  Numerous. [Obs.] Drant. 

NUMBERS:  of Number. The fourth book of the Pentateuch, containing the census of the Hebrews. 

NUMBFISH:  The torpedo, which numbs by the electric shocks which it gives. 

NUMBLESS:  See Nombles. 

NUMBNESS:  The condition of being numb; that state of a living body in which it loses, wholly or in part, the power of feeling or motion. 

NUMERABLE:  Capable of being numbered or counted. 

NUMERALLY:  According to number; in number; numerically. 

NUMERARY:  Belonging to a certain number; counting as one of a collection or body. A supernumerary canon, when he obtains a prebend, becomes a numerary canon. Ayliffe. 

NUMERATE:  To divide off and read according to the rules of numeration; as, to numerate a row of figures. 

NUMERATIVE:  Of or pertaining to numeration; as, a numerative system. Eng. Cyc. 

NUMERATOR:  The term in a fraction which indicates the number of fractional units that are taken.  Note: In a vulgar fraction the numerator is written above a line; thus, in the fraction 5/9 (five ninths) 5 is the numerator; in a decimal fraction it is the number which follows the decimal point. See Fraction.  NUMERIC; NUMERICAL Nu*mer"ic, Nu*mer"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. numérique. See Number, n.]  1. Belonging to number; denoting number; consisting in numbers; expressed by numbers, and not letters; as, numerical characters; a numerical equation; a numerical statement.  Note: Numerical, as opposed to algebraical, is used to denote a value irrespective of its sign; thus, -5 is numerically greater than -3, though algebraically less.  2.2. The same in number; hence, identically the same; identical; as, the same numerical body. [Obs.] South. Would to God that all my fellow brethren, which with me bemoan the loss of their books, . . . might rejoice for the recovery thereof, though not the same numerical volumes. Fuller. Numerical equation (Alg.), an equation which has all the quantities except the unknown expressed in numbers; -- distinguished from literal equation.  -- Numerical value of an equation or expression, that deduced by substituting numbers for the letters, and reducing. 

NUMERIC:  Any number, proper or improper fraction, or incommensurable ratio. The term also includes any imaginary expression like m + nsq. root-1, where m and n are real numerics. 

NUMERICALLY:  In a numerical manner; in numbers; with respect to number, or sameness in number; as, a thing is numerically the same, or numerically different. 

NUMERIST:  One who deals in numbers. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

NUMERO:  Number; -- often abbrev. No. 

NUMIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to ancient Numidia in Northern Africa. Numidian crane. (Zoöl.) See Demoiselle, 2.  NUMISMATIC; NUMISMATICAL Nu`mis*mat"ic, Nu`mis*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. numisma, nomisma, a piece of money, coin, fr. Gr. numismatique. See Nomad.]  Of or pertaining to coins; relating to the science of coins or medals. 

NUMISMATICS:  The science of coins and medals. 

NUMISMATIST:  One skilled in numismatics; a numismatologist. 

NUMISMATOGRAPHY:  A treatise on, or description of, coins and medals. 

NUMISMATOLOGIST:  One versed in numismatology. 

NUMISMATOLOGY:  The science which treats of coins and medals, in their relation to history; numismatics. 

NUMMARY:  Of or relating to coins or money.  NUMMULAR; NUMMULARY Num"mu*lar, Num"mu*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. nummularius, fr. nummulus, dim. of nummus a coin: cf. F. nummulaire.]  1. Of or pertaining to coin or money; pecuniary; as, the nummulary talent.  2. (Pathol.)  Having the appearance or form of a coin. "Nummular sputa." Sir T. Watson. 

NUMMULATION:  The arrangement of the red blood corpuscles in rouleaux, like piles of coins, as when a drop of human blood is examined under the microscope. 

NUMMULITE:  A fossil of the genus Nummulites and allied genera. 

NUMMULITES:  A genus of extinct Tertiary Foraminifera, having a thin, flat, round shell, containing a large number of small chambers arranged spirally. 

NUMMULITIC:  Of, like, composed of, containing, nummulites; as, nummulitic beds. 

NUMPS:  A dolt; a blockhead. [Obs.] Bp. Parker. 

NUMSKULL:  A dunce; a dolt; a stupid fellow. [Colloq.] They have talked like numskulls. Arbuthnot. 

NUMSKULLED:  Stupid; doltish. [Colloq.] 

NUNATAK:  In Greenland, an insular hill or mountain surrounded by an ice sheet.  NUNC DIMITTIS Nunc" di*mit"tis. [L. nunc now + dimittis thou lettest depart.] (Eccl.)  The song of Simeon (Luke ii. 29-32), used in the ritual of many churches. It begins with these words in the Vulgate. 

NUNCHION:  A portion of food taken at or after noon, usually between full meals; a luncheon. [Written also noonshun.] Hudibras. 

NUNCIATE:  One who announces; a messenger; a nuncio. [Obs.] Hoole. 

NUNCIATURE:  The office of a nuncio. Clarendon. 

NUNCUPATION:  The act of nuncupating. [Obs.] 

NUNCUPATORY:  Nuncupative; oral. 

NUNDINAL:  A nundinal letter.  NUNDINAL; NUNDINARY Nun"di*nal, Nun"di*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. nundinalis, nundinarius, fr. nundinae the market day, the weekly market, prop., the ninth day, fr. nundinus belonging to nine days; novem nine + dies day: cf. F. nundinal.]  Of or pertaining to a fair, or to a market day. Nundinal letter, among the Romans, one of the first eight letters of the alphabet, which were repeated successively from the first to the last day of the year. One of these always expressed the market day, which returned every nine days (every eight days by our reckoning). 

NUNDINATE:  To buy and sell at fairs or markets. [Obs.] 

NUNDINATION:  Traffic at fairs; marketing; buying and selling. [Obs.] Common nundination of pardons. Abp. Bramhall. 

NUNNATION:  The pronunciation of n at the end of words. 

NUNNERY:  A house in which nuns reside; a cloister or convent in which women reside for life, under religious vows. See Cloister, and Convent. 

NUNNISH:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling a nun; characteristic of a nun.  -- Nun"nish*ness, n. 

NUP:  Same as Nupson. [Obs.] 

NUPHAR:  A genus of plants found in the fresh-water ponds or lakes of Europe, Asia, and North America; the yellow water lily. Cf. Nymphaea. 

NUPSON:  A simpleton; a fool. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

NUPTIAL:  Of or pertaining to marriage; done or used at a wedding; as, nuptial rites and ceremonies. Then, all in heat, They light the nuptial torch. Milton. 

NUPTIAL:  Marriage; wedding; nuptial ceremony; -- now only in the plural. Celebration of that nuptial, which We two have sworn shall come. Shak. Preparations . . . for the approaching nuptials. Prescott. 

NUR:  A hard knot in wood; also, a hard knob of wood used by boys in playing hockey. I think I'm as hard as a nur, and as tough as whitleather. W. Howitt.  NURAGHE; NURAGH Nu*ra"ghe, n.; It. pl. -ghi. Also Nu"ragh, etc. [It. dial. (Sardinia) nuraghe).]  One of the prehistoric towerlike structures found in Sardinia.  The so-called nuraghi, conical monuments with truncated summits, 30- 60 ft. in height, 35-100 ft. in diameter at the base, constructed sometimes of hewn, and sometimes of unhewn blocks of stone without mortar. They are situated either on isolated eminences or on the slopes of the mountains, seldom on the plains, and usually occur in groups. They generally contain two (in some rare instances three) conically vaulted chambers, one above the other, and a spiral staircase constructed in the thick walls ascends to the upper stories. Baedeker. 

NURL:  To cut with reeding or fluting on the edge of, as coins, the heads of screws, etc.; to knurl. 

NURSE:  A lieutenant or first officer, who is the real commander when the captain is unfit for his place.  4. (Zoöl.) (a) A peculiar larva of certain trematodes which produces cercariæ by asexual reproduction. See Cercaria, and Redia. (b) Either one of the nurse sharks. Nurse shark. (Zoöl.) (a) A large arctic shark (Somniosus microcephalus), having small teeth and feeble jaws; -- called also sleeper shark, and ground shark. (b) A large shark (Ginglymostoma cirratum), native of the West Indies and Gulf of Mexico, having the dorsal fins situated behind the ventral fins.  -- To put to nurse, or To put out to nurse, to send away to be nursed; to place in the care of a nurse.  -- Wet nurse, Dry nurse. See Wet nurse, and Dry nurse, in the Vocabulary. 

NURSEHOUND:  See Houndfish. 

NURSEMAID:  A girl employed to attend children. 

NURSEPOND:  A pond where fish are fed. Walton. 

NURSER:  One who nurses; a nurse; one who cherishes or encourages growth. 

NURSERYMAN:  One who cultivates or keeps a nursery, or place for rearing trees, etc. 

NURSING:  Supplying or taking nourishment from, or as from, the breast; as, a nursing mother; a nursing infant. 

NURSLING:  One who, or that which, is nursed; an infant; a fondling. I was his nursling once, and choice delight. Milton. 

NURSTLE:  To nurse. See Noursle. [Obs.] 

NUSTLE:  To fondle; to cherish. [Obs.] 

NUT:  The fruit of certain trees and shrubs (as of the almond, walnut, hickory, beech, filbert, etc.), consisting of a hard and indehiscent shell inclosing a kernel.  2. A perforated block (usually a small piece of metal), provided with an internal or female screw thread, used on a bolt, or screw, for tightening or holding something, or for transmitting motion. See Illust. of lst Bolt.  3. The tumbler of a gunlock. Knight.  4. (Naut.)  A projection on each side of the shank of an anchor, to secure the stock in place. Check nut, Jam nut, Lock nut, a nut which is screwed up tightly against another nut on the same bolt or screw, in order to prevent accidental unscrewing of the first nut.  -- Nut buoy. See under Buoy.  -- Nut coal, screened coal of a size smaller than stove coal and larger than pea coal; -- called also chestnut coal.  -- Nut crab (Zoöl.), any leucosoid crab of the genus Ebalia as, Ebalia tuberosa of Europe.  -- Nut grass (Bot.), a plant of the Sedge family (Cyperus rotundus, var. Hydra), which has slender rootstocks bearing small, nutlike tubers, by which the plant multiplies exceedingly, especially in cotton fields.  -- Nut lock, a device, as a metal plate bent up at the corners, to prevent a nut from becoming unscrewed, as by jarring.  -- Nut pine. (Bot.) See under Pine.  -- Nut rush (Bot.), a genus of cyperaceous plants (Scleria) having a hard bony achene. Several species are found in the United States and many more in tropical regions.  -- Nut tree, a tree that bears nuts.  -- Nut weevil (Zoöl.), any species of weevils of the genus Balaninus and other allied genera, which in the larval state live in nuts. 

NUT:  To gather nuts. 

NUTANT:  Nodding; having the top bent downward. 

NUTATION:  A very small libratory motion of the earth's axis, by which its inclination to the plane of the ecliptic is constantly varying by a small amount.  3. (Bot.) (a) The motion of a flower in following the apparent movement of the sun, from the east in the morning to the west in the evening. (b) Circumnutation. 

NUTBREAKER:  Brown as a nut long kept and dried. "The spicy nutbrown ale." Milton. 

NUTGALL:  A more or less round gall resembling a nut, esp. one of those produced on the oak and used in the arts. See Gall, Gallnut. 

NUTHATCH:  Any one of several species of birds of the genus Sitta, as the European species (Sitta Europæa). The white-breasted nuthatch (S. Carolinensis), the red-breasted nuthatch (S. Canadensis), the pygmy nuthatch (S. pygmæa), and others, are American. 

NUTJOBBER:  The nuthatch. [Prov. Eng.] 

NUTLET:  A small nut; also, the stone of a drupe. 

NUTMEG:  The kernel of the fruit of the nutmeg tree (Myristica fragrans), a native of the Molucca Islands, but cultivated elsewhere in the tropics.  Note: This fruit is a nearly spherical drupe, of the size of a pear, of a yellowish color without and almost white within. This opens into two nearly equal longitudinal valves, inclosing the nut surrounded by its aril, which is mace The nutmeg is an aromatic, very grateful to the taste and smell, and much used in cookery. Other species of Myristica yield nutmegs of inferior quality. American, Calabash, or Jamaica, nutmeg, the fruit of a tropical shrub (Monodora Myristica). It is about the size of an orange, and contains many aromatic seeds imbedded in pulp.  -- Brazilian nutmeg, the fruit of a lauraceous tree, Cryptocarya moschata.  -- California nutmeg, tree of the Yew family (Torreya Californica), growing in the Western United States, and having a seed which resembles a nutmeg in appearance, but is strongly impregnated with turpentine.  -- Clove nutmeg, the Ravensara aromatica, a laura ceous tree of Madagascar. The foliage is used as a spice, but the seed is acrid and caustic.  -- Jamaica nutmeg. See American nutmeg (above).  -- Nutmeg bird (Zoöl.), an Indian finch (Munia punctularia).  -- Nutmeg butter, a solid oil extracted from the nutmeg by expression.  -- Nutmeg flower (Bot.), a ranunculaceous herb (Nigella sativa) with small black aromatic seeds, which are used medicinally and for excluding moths from furs and clothing.  -- Nutmeg liver (Med.), a name applied to the liver, when, as the result of heart or lung disease, it undergoes congestion and pigmentation about the central veins of its lobules, giving it an appearance resembling that of a nutmeg.  -- Nutmeg melon (Bot.), a small variety of muskmelon of a rich flavor.  -- Nutmeg pigeon (Zoöl.), any one of several species of pigeons of the genus Myristicivora, native of the East Indies and Australia. The color is usually white, or cream-white, with black on the wings and tail.  -- Nutmeg wood (Bot.), the wood of the Palmyra palm.  -- Peruvian nutmeg, the aromatic seed of a South American tree (Laurelia sempervirens).  -- Plume nutmeg (Bot.), a spicy tree of Australia (Atherosperma moschata). 

NUTMEGGED:  Seasoned with nutmeg. 

NUTPECKER:  The nuthatch. 

NUTRIA:  The fur of the coypu. See Coypu. 

NUTRICATION:  The act or manner of feeding. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

NUTRIENT:  Nutritious; nourishing; promoting growth.  -- n.  Any substance which has nutritious qualities, i. e., which nourishes or promotes growth. 

NUTRIMENTAL:  Nutritious. 

NUTRITIAL:  Pertaining to, or connected with, nutrition; nutritious. [Obs.] Chapman. 

NUTRITION:  In the broadest sense, a process or series of processes by which the living organism as a whole (or its component parts or organs) is maintained in its normal condition of life and growth.  Note: In this wide sense it comprehends digestion, absorption, circulation, assimilation, etc., in fact all of the steps by which the nutritive matter of the food is fitted for incorporation with the different tissues, and the changes which it undergoes after its assimilation, prior to its excretion. See Metabolism.  2. (Physiol.)  In a more limited sense, the process by which the living tissues take up, from the blood, matters necessary either for their repair or for the performance of their healthy functions.  3. That which nourishes; nutriment. Fixed like a plant, on his peculiar spot, To draw nutrition, propagate, and rot. Pope. 

NUTRITIONAL:  Of or pertaining to nutrition; as, nutritional changes. 

NUTRITIOUS:  Nourishing; promoting growth, or preventing decay; alimental.  -- Nu*tri"tious*ly, adv.  -- Nu*tri"tious*ness, n. 

NUTRITIVE:  Of or pertaining to nutrition; as, the nutritive functions; having the quality of nourishing; nutritious; nutrimental; alimental; as, nutritive food or berries. Nutritive plasma. (Biol.) See Idioplasma.  -- Nutritive polyp (Zoöl.), any one of the zooids of a compound hydroid, or coral, which has a mouth and digestive cavity.  -- Nu"tri*tive*ly, adv.  -- Nu"tri*tive*ness, n. 

NUTRITURE:  Nutrition; nourishment. [Obs.] Harvey. 

NUTSHELL:  A shell of the genus Nucula. To be, or lie, in a nutshell, to be within a small compass; to admit of very brief or simple determination or statement. "The remedy lay in a nutshell." Macaulay. 

NUTTER:  A gatherer of nuts. 

NUTTING:  The act of gathering nuts. 

NUTTY:  The seed of Strychnos Nuxvomica, a tree which abounds on the Malabar and Coromandel coasts of the East Indies. From this seed the deadly poisons known as strychnine and brucine are obtained. The seeds are sometimes called Quaker buttons. 

NUZZLE:  To nestle; to house, as in a nest. 

NUZZLE:  To hide the head, as a child in the mother's bosom; to nestle.  4. To loiter; to idle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

NY:  Not I; nor I. [Obs.]  NY; NYE Ny, Nye, a. & adv.  Nigh. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

NYAS:  See Nias. 

NYCTALOPS:  One afflicted with nyctalopia. 

NYCTALOPY:  Same as Nyctalopia. 

NYCTHEMERON:  The natural day and night, or space of twenty-four hours. 

NYCTIBUNE:  A South American bird of the genus Nyctibius, allied to the goatsuckers. 

NYCTITROPIC:  Turning or bending at night into special positions.  Note: Nyctitropic movements of plants usually consist in a folding or drooping of the leaves, the advantage being in lessening the radiation of heat. 

NYCTITROPISM:  The tendency of certain plant organs, as leaves, to assume special "sleeping" positions or make curvatures under the influence of darkness. It is well illustrated in the leaflets of clover and other leguminous plants. 

NYCTOPHILE:  Any Australian bat of the genus Nyctophilus, having a very simple nasal appendage. 

NYE:  A brood or flock of pheasants. 

NYENTEK:  A carnivorous mannual (Helictis moscatus, or H. orientalis), native of Eastern Asia and the Indies. It has a dorsal white stripe, and another one across the shoulders. It has a strong musky odor.  NYLGHAU; NYLGAU Nyl"ghau, Nyl"gau, n. Etym: [Hind. & Per. nilgaw, prop., a blue cow; Per. nil blue + gaw cow. See Lilac, and Cow the animal.] (Zoöl.)  A large Asiatic antelope (Boselaphus, or Portax, tragocamelus), found in Northern India. It has short horns, a black mane, and a bunch of long hair on the throat. The general color is grayish brown. [Written also neelghau, nilgau, and nylghaie.] 

NYMPH:  A goddess of the mountains, forests, meadows, or waters. Where were ye, nymphs, when the remorseless deep Closed o'er the head of your loved Lycidas Milton.  2. Hence: A lovely young girl; a maiden; a damsel. Nymph, in thy orisons Be all my sins remembered. Shak.  3. (Zoöl.)  The pupa of an insect; a chrysalis.  4. (Zoöl.)  Any one of a subfamily (Najades) of butterflies including the purples, the fritillaries, the peacock butterfly, etc.; -- called also naiad. 

NYMPHA:  Same as Nymph, 3.  2. pl. (Anat.)  Two folds of mucous membrane, within the labia, at the opening of the vulva. 

NYMPHAEA:  A genus of aquatic plants having showy flowers (white, blue, pink, or yellow, often fragrant), including the white water lily and the Egyptia lotus.  Note: Recent critics have endeavored to show that this genus should be called Castalia, and the name Nymphæa transferred to what is now known as Nuphar. 

NYMPHAL:  Of or pertaining to a nymph or nymphs; nymphean. 

NYMPHALES:  An extensive family of butterflies including the nymphs, the satyrs, the monarchs, the heliconias, and others; -- called also brush-footed butterflies. 

NYMPHEAN:  Of, pertaining to, or appropriate to, nymphs; inhabited by nymphs; as, a nymphean cave. 

NYMPHET:  A little or young nymph. [Poetic] "The nymphets sporting there." Drayton.  NYMPHIC; NYMPHICAL Nymph"ic, Nymph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to nymphs. 

NYMPHIPAROUS:  Producing pupas or nymphs. 

NYMPHISH:  Relating to nymphs; ladylike. "Nymphish war." Drayton.  NYMPHLIKE; NYMPHLY Nymph"like`, Nymph"ly, a.  Resembling, or characteristic of, a nymph. 

NYMPHOLEPSY:  A species of demoniac enthusiasm or possession coming upon one who had accidentally looked upon a nymph; ecstasy. [R.] De Quincey. The nympholepsy of some fond despair. Byron. 

NYMPHOLEPTIC:  Under the influence of nympholepsy; ecstatic; frenzied. [Poetic] 

NYMPHOMANIA:  Morbid and uncontrollable sexual desire in women, constituting a true disease. 

NYMPHOMANY:  Same as Nymphomania. 

NYMPHOTOMY:  Excision of the nymphæ. 

NYS:  Is not. See Nis. Chaucer. Spenser. 

NYSTAGMUS:  A rapid involuntary oscillation of the eyeballs. 

NYULA:  A species of ichneumon (Herpestes nyula). Its fur is beautifully variegated by closely set zigzag markings. 

O:  A prefix to Irish family names, which signifies grandson or descendant of, and is a character of dignity; as, O'Neil, O'Carrol.  O' O', prep.  A shortened form of of or on. "At the turning o' the tide." Shak. 

O:  One. [Obs.] Chaucer. "Alle thre but o God." Piers Plowman. 

O:  An exclamation used in calling or directly addressing a person or personified object; also, as an emotional or impassioned exclamation expressing pain, grief, surprise, desire, fear, etc. For ever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Ps. cxix. 89. O how love I thy law ! it is my meditation all the day. Ps. cxix. 97.  Note: O is frequently followed by an ellipsis and that, an in expressing a wish: "O [I wish] that Ishmael might live before thee !" Gen. xvii. 18; or in expressions of surprise, indignation, or regret: "O [it is sad] that such eyes should e'er meet other object !" Sheridan Knowles.  Note: A distinction between the use of O and oh is insisted upon by some, namely, that O should be used only in direct address to a person or personified object, and should never be followed by the exclamation point, while Oh (or oh) should be used in exclamations where no direct appeal or address to an object is made, and may be followed by the exclamation point or not, according to the nature or construction of the sentence. Some insist that oh should be used only as an interjection expressing strong feeling. The form O, however, is, it seems, the one most commonly employed for both uses by modern writers and correctors for the press. "O, I am slain !" Shak. "O what a fair and ministering angel !" "O sweet angel !" Longfellow. O for a kindling touch from that pure flame ! Wordsworth. But she is in her grave, -- and oh The difference to me ! Wordsworth. Oh for a lodge in some vast wilderness ! Cowper. We should distinguish between the sign of the vocative and the emotional interjection, writing O for the former, and oh for the latter. Earle. O dear, and O dear me! Etym: [corrupted fr. F. O Dieu! or It. O Dio! O God! O Dio mio! O my God! Wyman], exclamations expressive of various emotions, but usually promoted by surprise, consternation, grief, pain, etc. 

OAD:  See Woad. [Obs.] Coles. 

OAF:  Originally, an elf's child; a changeling left by fairies or goblins; hence, a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an idiot. 

OAFISH:  Like an oaf; simple.  -- Oaf"ish*ness, n. 

OAK:  Any tree or shrub of the genus Quercus. The oaks have alternate leaves, often variously lobed, and staminate flowers in catkins. The fruit is a smooth nut, called an acorn, which is more or less inclosed in a scaly involucre called the cup or cupule. There are now recognized about three hundred species, of which nearly fifty occur in the United States, the rest in Europe, Asia, and the other parts of North America, a very few barely reaching the northern parts of South America and Africa. Many of the oaks form forest trees of grand proportions and live many centuries. The wood is usually hard and tough, and provided with conspicuous medullary rays, forming the silver grain.  2. The strong wood or timber of the oak.  Note: Among the true oaks in America are: Barren oak, or Black-jack, Q. nigra.  -- Basket oak, Q. Michauxii.  -- Black oak, Q. tinctoria: -- called also yellow or quercitron oak.  -- Bur oak (see under Bur.), Q. macrocarpa; -- called also over-cup or mossy-cup oak.  -- Chestnut oak, Q. Prinus and Q. densiflora.  -- Chinquapin oak (see under Chinquapin), Q. prinoides.  -- Coast live oak, Q. agrifolia, of California; -- also called enceno.  -- Live oak (see under Live), Q. virens, the best of all for shipbuilding; also, Q. Chrysolepis, of California.  -- Pin oak. Same as Swamp oak.  -- Post oak, Q. obtusifolia.  -- Red oak, Q. rubra.  -- Scarlet oak, Q. coccinea.  -- Scrub oak, Q. ilicifolia, Q. undulata, etc.  -- Shingle oak, Q. imbricaria.  -- Spanish oak, Q. falcata.  -- Swamp Spanish oak, or Pin oak, Q. palustris.  -- Swamp white oak, Q. bicolor.  -- Water oak, Q. aguatica.  -- Water white oak, Q. lyrata.  -- Willow oak, Q. Phellos. Among the true oaks in Europe are: Bitter oak, or Turkey oak, Q. Cerris (see Cerris).  -- Cork oak, Q. Suber.  -- English white oak, Q. Robur.  -- Evergreen oak, Holly oak, or Holm oak, Q. Ilex.  -- Kermes oak, Q. coccifera.  -- Nutgall oak, Q. infectoria.  Note: Among plants called oak, but not of the genus Quercus, are: African oak, a valuable timber tree (Oldfieldia Africana).  -- Australian, or She, oak, any tree of the genus Casuarina (see Casuarina).  -- Indian oak, the teak tree (see Teak).  -- Jerusalem oak. See under Jerusalem.  -- New Zealand oak, a sapindaceous tree (Alectryon excelsum).  -- Poison oak, the poison ivy. See under Poison.  -- Silky, or Silk-bark, oak, an Australian tree (Grevillea robusta). Green oak, oak wood colored green by the growth of the mycelium of certain fungi.  -- Oak apple, a large, smooth, round gall produced on the leaves of the American red oak by a gallfly (Cynips confluens). It is green and pulpy when young.  -- Oak beauty (Zoöl.), a British geometrid moth (Biston prodromaria) whose larva feeds on the oak.  -- Oak gall, a gall found on the oak. See 2d Gall.  -- Oak leather (Bot.), the mycelium of a fungus which forms leatherlike patches in the fissures of oak wood.  -- Oak pruner. (Zoöl.) See Pruner, the insect.  -- Oak spangle, a kind of gall produced on the oak by the insect Diplolepis lenticularis.  -- Oak wart, a wartlike gall on the twigs of an oak.  -- The Oaks, one of the three great annual English horse races (the Derby and St. Leger being the others). It was instituted in 1779 by the Earl of Derby, and so called from his estate.  -- To sport one's oak, to be "not at home to visitors," signified by closing the outer (oaken) door of one's rooms. [Cant, Eng. Univ.] 

OAKEN:  Made or consisting of oaks or of the wood of oaks. "In oaken bower." Milton. Oaken timber, wherewith to build ships. Bacon. 

OAKER:  See Ocher. [Obs.] Spenser. 

OAKLING:  A young oak. Evelyn. 

OAKY:  Resembling oak; strong. Bp. Hall. 

OAR:  An oarlike swimming organ of various invertebrates. Oar cock (Zoöl), the water rail. [Prov. Eng.] -- Spoon oar, an oar having the blade so curved as to afford a better hold upon the water in rowing.  -- To boat the oars, to cease rowing, and lay the oars in the boat.  -- To feather the oars. See under Feather., v. t.  -- To lie on the oars, to cease pulling, raising the oars out of water, but not boating them; to cease from work of any kind; to be idle; to rest.  -- To muffle the oars, to put something round that part which rests in the rowlock, to prevent noise in rowing.  -- To put in one's oar, to give aid or advice; -- commonly used of a person who obtrudes aid or counsel not invited.  -- To ship the oars, to place them in the rowlocks.  -- To toss the oars, To peak the oars, to lift them from the rowlocks and hold them perpendicularly, the handle resting on the bottom of the boat.  -- To trail oars, to allow them to trail in the water alongside of the boat.  -- To unship the oars, to take them out of the rowlocks. 

OAR:  To row. "Oared himself." Shak. Oared with laboring arms. Pope. 

OARFISH:  The ribbon fish. 

OARFOOT:  Any crustacean of the genus Remipes.  OAR-FOOTED Oar"-foot`ed a.  Having feet adapted for swimming. 

OARLESS:  Without oars. Sylvester. 

OARLOCK:  The notch, fork, or other device on the gunwale of a boat, in which the oar rests in rowing.  See Rowlock. 

OARSMAN:  One who uses, or is skilled in the use of, an oar; a rower.  At the prow of the boat, rose one of the oarsmen. Longfellow. 

OARSWEED:  Any large seaweed of the genus Laminaria; tangle; kelp.  See Kelp. 

OARY:  Having the form or the use of an oar; as, the swan's oary feet. Milton. Addison. 

OASIS:  A fertile or green spot in a waste or desert, esp. in a sandy desert.  My one oasis in the dust and drouth Of city life. Tennyson. 

OAST:  A kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle. Mortimer. 

OATCAKE:  A cake made of oatmeal. 

OATH:  An appeal (in verification of a statement made) to a superior sanction, in such a form as exposes the party making the appeal to an indictment for perjury if the statement be false.  4. A careless and blasphemous use of the name of the divine Being, or anything divine or sacred, by way of appeal or as a profane exclamation or ejaculation; an expression of profane swearing. "A terrible oath" Shak. 

OATHABLE:  Capable of having an oath administered to. [Obs.] Shak. 

OATHBREAKING:  The violation of an oath; perjury. Shak 

OATMEAL:  A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass.  OB- Ob-. Etym: [L. ob, prep. Cf. Epi-.]  A prefix signifying to, toward, before, against, reversely, etc.; also, as a simple intensive; as in oblige, to bind to; obstacle, something standing before; object, lit., to throw against; obovate, reversely, ovate. Ob- is commonly assimilated before c, f, g, and p, to oc-, of-, og-, and op-. 

OBBE:  See Obi. 

OBCOMPRESSED:  Compressed or flattened antero-posteriorly, or in a way opposite to the usual one.  OBCONIC; OBCONICAL Ob*con"ic, Ob*con"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. ob- + conic, conical.]  Conical, but having the apex downward; inversely conical. 

OBCORDATE:  Heart-shaped, with the attachment at the pointed end; inversely cordate: as, an obcordate petal or leaf. 

OBDIPLOSTEMONOUS:  Having twice as many stamens as petals, those of the outer set being opposite the petals; -- said of flowers. Gray. 

OBDIPLOSTEMONY:  The condition of being obdiplostemonous. 

OBDORMITION:  Sleep. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

OBDUCE:  To draw over, as a covering. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

OBDUCT:  To draw over; to cover. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

OBDUCTION:  .The act of drawing or laying over, as a covering. [Obs.] 

OBDURACY:  The duality or state of being obdurate; invincible hardness of heart; obstinacy. "Obduracy and persistency." Shak. The absolute completion of sin in final obduracy. South. 

OBDURATE:  To harden. [Obs.] 

OBDURATION:  A hardening of the heart; hardness of heart. [Obs.] 

OBDURE:  To harden. [Obs.] Milton.  OBDURE; OBDURED Ob*dure", Ob*dured", a.  Obdurate; hard. [Obs.] This saw his hapless foes, but stood obdured. Milton.  OBDURENESS; OBDUREDNESS Ob*dure"ness, n., Ob*dur"ed*ness, n.  Hardness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

OBE:  See Obi. 

OBEAH:  Same as Obi.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to obi; as, the obeah man. B. Edwards. 

OBEDIBLE:  Obedient. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

OBEDIENCIARY:  One yielding obedience. [Obs.] Foxe. 

OBEDIENT:  Subject in will or act to authority; willing to obey; submissive to restraint, control, or command. And floating straight, obedient to the stream. Shak. The chief his orders gives; the obedient band, With due observance, wait the chief's command. Pope.  Syn.  -- Dutiful; respectful; compliant; submissive. 

OBEDIENTIAL:  According to the rule of obedience. [R.] An obediental subjection to the Lord of Nature. Sir M. Hale. 

OBEDIENTLY:  In an obedient manner; with obedience. 

OBEISANCY:  See Obeisance. [Obs.] 

OBEISANT:  Ready to obey; reverent; differential; also, servilely submissive. 

OBELION:  The region of the skull between the two parietal foramina where the closure of the sagittal suture usually begins. 

OBELISCAL:  Formed like an obelisk. 

OBELISK:  A mark of reference; -- called also dagger [&dag;]. See Dagger, n., 2. 

OBELISK:  To mark or designate with an obelisk. 

OBELIZE:  To designate with an obelus; to mark as doubtful or spirituous. [R.] 

OBELUS:  A mark [thus ---, or ÷]; -- so called as resembling a needle. In old MSS. or editions of the classics, it marks suspected passages or readings. 

OBEQUITATE:  To ride about. [Obs.] -- Ob*eq`ui*ta"tion, n. [Obs.] Cockerman. 

OBERON:  The king of the fairies, and husband of Titania or Queen Mab. Shak. 

OBERRATION:  A wandering about. [Obs.] Jonhson. 

OBESE:  Excessively corpulent; fat; fleshy. 

OBESENESS:  Quality of being obese; obesity. 

OBESITY:  The state or quality of being obese; incumbrance of flesh. 

OBEY:  To give obedience. Will he obey when one commands Tennyson.  Note: By some old writers obey was used, as in the French idiom, with the preposition to. His servants ye are, to whom ye obey. Rom. vi. 16. He commanded the trumpets to sound: to which the two brave knights obeying, they performed their courses. Sir. P. Sidney. 

OBEYER:  One who yields obedience. Holland. 

OBEYINGLY:  Obediently; submissively.  OBFIRM; OBFIRMATE Ob*firm", Ob*firm"ate, v. t. Etym: [L. obfirmatus, p.p. of obfirmare to make steadfast. See Ob-, and Firm, v. t.]  To make firm; to harden in resolution. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. Sheldon. 

OBFIRMATION:  Hardness of heart; obduracy. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

OBFUSCATE:  Obfuscated; darkened; obscured. [Obs.] [Written also offuscate.] Sir. T. Elyot. 

OBFUSCATE:  To darken; to obscure; to becloud; hence, to confuse; to bewilder. His head, like a smokejack, the funnel unswept, and the ideas whirling round and round about in it, all obfuscated and darkened over with fuliginous matter. Sterne. Clouds of passion which might obfuscate the intellects of meaner females. Sir. W. Scott. 

OBFUSCATION:  The act of darkening or bewildering; the state of being darkened. "Obfuscation of the cornea." E. Darwin. 

OBIISM:  Belief in, or the practice of, the obi superstitions and rites. 

OBIMBRICATE:  Imbricated, with the overlapping ends directed downward. 

OBITER:  In passing; incidentally; by the way. Obiter dictum (Law), an incidental and collateral opinion uttered by a judge. See Dictum, n., 2(a). 

OBITUAL:  Of or pertaining to obits, or days when obits are celebrated; as, obitual days. Smart. 

OBITUARILY:  In the manner of an obituary. 

OBITUARY:  Of or pertaining to the death of a person or persons; as, an obituary notice; obituary poetry. 

OBITUARY:  A list of the dead, or a register of anniversary days when service is performed for the dead. 

OBJECT:  To make opposition in words or argument; -- usually followed by to. Sir. T. More. 

OBJECT:  A word, phrase, or clause toward which an action is directed, or is considered to be directed; as, the object of a transitive verb. Object glass, the lens, or system of lenses, placed at the end of a telescope, microscope, etc., which is toward the object. Its office is to form an image of the object, which is then viewed by the eyepiece. Called also objective. See Illust. of Microscope.  -- Object lesson, a lesson in which object teaching is made use of.  -- Object staff. (Leveling) Same as Leveling staff.  -- Object teaching, a method of instruction, in which illustrative objects are employed, each new word or idea being accompanied by a representation of that which it signifies; -- used especially in the kindergarten, for young children. 

OBJECT:  Opposed; presented in opposition; also, exposed. [Obs.] 

OBJECTABLE:  Such as can be presented in opposition; that may be put forward as an objection. [R.] 

OBJECTIFY:  To cause to become an object; to cause to assume the character of an object; to render objective. J. D. Morell. 

OBJECTIONABLE:  Liable to objection; likely to be objected to or disapproved of; offensive; as, objectionable words.  -- Ob*jec"tion*a*bly, adv. 

OBJECTIST:  One who adheres to, or is skilled in, the objective philosophy. Ed. Rev. 

OBJECTIVATE:  To objectify. 

OBJECTIVATION:  Converting into an object. 

OBJECTIVE:  Of or pertaining to an object; contained in, or having the nature or position of, an object; outward; external; extrinsic; -- an epithet applied to whatever ir exterior to the mind, or which is simply an object of thought or feeling, and opposed to subjective. In the Middle Ages, subject meant substance, and has this sense in Descartes and Spinoza: sometimes, also, in Reid. Subjective is used by William of Occam to denote that which exists independent of mind; objective, what is formed by the mind. This shows what is meant by realitas objectiva in Descartes. Kant and Fichte have inverted the meanings. Subject, with them, is the mind which knows; object, that which is known; subjective, the varying conditions of the knowing mind; objective, that which is in the constant nature of the thing known. Trendelenburg. Objective means that which belongs to, or proceeds from, the object known, and not from the subject knowing, and thus denotes what is real, in opposition to that which is ideal -- what exists in nature, in contrast to what exists merely in the thought of the individual. Sir. W. Hamilton. Objective has come to mean that which has independent exostence or authority, apart from our experience or thought. Thus, moral law is said to have objective authority, that is, authority belonging to itself, and not drawn from anything in our nature. Calderwood (Fleming's Vocabulary).  3. (Gram.)  Pertaining to, or designating, the case which follows a transitive verb or a preposition, being that case in which the direct object of the verb is placed. See Accusative, n.  Note: The objective case is frequently used without a governing word, esp. in designations of time or space, where a preposition, as at, in, on, etc., may be supplied. My troublous dream [on] this night make me sad. Shak. To write of victories [in or for] next year. Hudibras. Objective line (Perspective), a line drawn on the geometrical plane which is represented or sought to be represented.  -- Objective plane (Perspective), any plane in the horizontal plane that is represented.  -- Objective point, the point or result to which the operations of an army are directed. By extension, the point or purpose to which anything, as a journey or an argument, is directed.  Syn.  -- Objective, Subjective. Objective is applied to things exterior to the mind, and objects of its attention; subjective, to the operations of the mind itself. Hence, an objective motive is some outward thing awakening desire; a subjective motive is some internal feeling or propensity. Objective views are those governed by outward things; subjective views are produced or modified by internal feeling. Sir Walter Scott's poetry is chiefly objective; that of Wordsworth is eminently subjective. In the philosophy of mind, subjective denotes what is to be referred to the thinking subject, the ego; objective what belongs to the object of thought, the non-ego. Sir. W. Hamilton 

OBJECTIVE:  The objective case.  2. An object glass. See under Object, n.  3. Same as Objective point, under Objective, a. 

OBJECTIVELY:  In the manner or state of an object; as, a determinate idea objectively in the mind. 

OBJECTIVENESS:  Objectivity. Is there such a motion or objectiveness of external bodies, which produceth light Sir M. Hale 

OBJECTIVITY:  The state, quality, or relation of being objective; character of the object or of the objective. The calm, the cheerfulness, the disinterested objectivity have disappeared [in the life of the Greeks]. M. Arnold. 

OBJECTIZE:  To make an object of; to regard as an object; to place in the position of an object. In the latter, as objectized by the former, arise the emotions and affections. Coleridge. 

OBJECTLESS:  Having no object; purposeless. 

OBJECTOR:  One who objects; one who offers objections to a proposition or measure. 

OBJIBWAYS:  See Chippeways. 

OBJICIENT:  One who makes objection; an objector. [R.] Cardinal Wiseman. 

OBJURATION:  A binding by oath. [R.] Abp. Bramhall. 

OBJURGATE:  To chide; to reprove. 

OBJURGATION:  The act of objurgating; reproof. While the good lady was bestowing this objurgation on Mr.Ben Allen. Dickens. With a strong objurgation of the elbow in his ribs. Landor. 

OBJURGATORY:  Designed to objurgate or chide; containing or expressing reproof; culpatory. Bancroft. The objurgatory question of the Pharisees. Paley. 

OBLANCEOLATE:  Lanceolate in the reversed order, that is, narrowing toward the point of attachment more than toward the apex. 

OBLATE:  Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblate spheroid.  2. Offered up; devoted; consecrated; dedicated; -- used chiefly or only in the titles of Roman Catholic orders. See Oblate, n. Oblate ellipsoid or spheroid (Geom.), a solid generated by the revolution of an ellipse about its minor axis; an oblatum. See Ellipsoid of revolution, under Ellipsoid. 

OBLATENESS:  The quality or state of being oblate. 

OBLATIONER:  One who makes an offering as an act worship or reverence. Dr. H. More. 

OBLATRATE:  To bark or snarl, as a dog. [Obs.] 

OBLATRATION:  The act of oblatrating; a barking or snarling. Bp. Hall. 

OBLATUM:  An oblate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its minor axis. Cf. Oblongum. 

OBLECTATE:  To delight; to please greatly. [Obs.] 

OBLECTATION:  The act of pleasing highly; the state of being greatly pleased; delight. [R.] Feltham. 

OBLIGABLE:  Acknowledging, or complying with, obligation; trustworthy. [R.] The main difference between people seems to be, that one man can come under obligations on which you can rely, -- is obligable; and another is not. Emerson. 

OBLIGATION:  A bond with a condition annexed, and a penalty for nonfulfillment. In a larger sense, it is an acknowledgment of a duty to pay a certain sum or do a certain things. Days of obligation. See under Day. 

OBLIGATO:  See Obbligato. 

OBLIGATORILY:  In an obligatory manner; by reason of obligation. Foxe. 

OBLIGATORINESS:  The quality or state of being obligatory. 

OBLIGATORY:  Binding in law or conscience; imposing duty or obligation; requiring performance or forbearance of some act; -- often followed by on or upon; as, obedience is obligatory on a soldier. As long as the law is obligatory, so long our obedience is due. Jer. Taylor. 

OBLIGEE:  The person to whom another is bound, or the person to whom a bond is given. Blackstone. 

OBLIGEMENT:  Obligation. [R.] I will not resist, therefore, whatever it is, either of divine or human obligement, that you lay upon me. Milton. 

OBLIGER:  One who, or that which, obliges. Sir H. Wotton. 

OBLIGING:  Putting under obligation; disposed to oblige or do favors; hence, helpful; civil; kind. Mons.Strozzi has many curiosities, and is very obliging to a stranger who desires the sight of them. Addison.  Syn.  -- Civil; complaisant; courteous; kind, -- Obliging, Kind, Complaisant. One is kind who desires to see others happy; one is complaisant who endeavors to make them so in social intercourse by attentions calculated to please; one who is obliging performs some actual service, or has the disposition to do so.  -- O*bli"ging*ly. adv.  -- O*bli"ging*ness, n. 

OBLIGOR:  The person who binds himself, or gives his bond to another. Blackstone. 

OBLIQUE:  An oblique line. 

OBLIQUE:  To march in a direction oblique to the line of the column or platoon; -- formerly accomplished by oblique steps, now by direct steps, the men half-facing either to the right or left.  OBLIQUE-ANGLED Ob*lique"-an`gled, a.  Having oblique angles; as, an oblique-angled triangle. 

OBLIQUELY:  In an oblique manner; not directly; indirectly. "Truth obliquely leveled." Bp. Fell. Declining from the noon of day, The sun obliquely shoots his burning ray. Pope His discourse tends obliquely to the detracting from others. Addison. 

OBLIQUENESS:  Quality or state of being oblique. 

OBLITE:  Indistinct; slurred over. [Obs.] "Obscure and oblite mention." Fuller. 

OBLITERATE:  Scarcely distinct; -- applied to the markings of insects. 

OBLITERATION:  The act of obliterating, or the state of being obliterated; extinction. Sir. M. Hale. 

OBLITERATIVE:  Tending or serving to obliterate. 

OBLOCUTOR:  A disputer; a gainsayer. [Obs.] Bale. 

OBLONG:  Having greater length than breadth, esp. when rectangular. 

OBLONG:  A rectangular figure longer than it is broad; hence, any figure longer than it is broad. The best figure of a garden I esteem an oblong upon a descent. Sir W. Temple. 

OBLONGATA:  The medulla oblongata. B. G. Wilder. 

OBLONGATAL:  Of or pertaining to the medulla oblongata; medullar. 

OBLONGISH:  Somewhat oblong. 

OBLONGLY:  In an oblong form. 

OBLONGNESS:  State or quality of being oblong.  OBLONG-OVATE Ob"long-o"vate, a.  Between oblong and ovate, but inclined to the latter. 

OBLONGUM:  A prolate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its greater axis. Cf. Oblatum, and see Ellipsoid of revolution, under Ellipsoid. 

OBLOQUIOUS:  Containing obloquy; reproachful [R.] Naunton. 

OBLUCTATION:  A struggle against; resistance; opposition. [Obs.] Fotherby. 

OBNUBILATE:  To cloud; to obscure. [Obs.] Burton.  -- Ob*nu"bi*la"tion, n. [Obs.] Beddoes. 

OBOE:  One of the higher wind instruments in the modern orchestra, yet of great antiquity, having a penetrating pastoral quality of tone, somewhat like the clarinet in form, but more slender, and sounded by means of a double reed; a hautboy. Oboe d'amore Etym: [It., lit., oboe of love], and Oboe di caccia Etym: [It., lit., oboe of the chase], are names of obsolete modifications of the oboe, often found in the scores of Bach and Handel. 

OBOIST:  A performer on the oboe. 

OBOLARY:  Possessing only small coins; impoverished. [R.] Lamb. 

OBOLE:  A weight of twelve grains; or, according to some, of ten grains, or half a scruple. [Written also obol.] 

OBOLIZE:  See Obelize. 

OBOLO:  A copper coin, used in the Ionian Islands, about one cent in value. 

OBOMEGOID:  Obversely omegoid. 

OBOVAL:  Obovate. 

OBOVATE:  Inversely ovate; ovate with the narrow end downward; as, an obovate leaf. 

OBREPTION:  The obtaining gifts of escheat by fraud or surprise. Bell. 

OBREPTITIOUS:  Done or obtained by surprise; with secrecy, or by concealment of the truth. [R.] Cotgrave. 

OBROGATE:  To annul indirectly by enacting a new and contrary law, instead of by expressly abrogating or repealing the old one. [Obs.] Bailey. 

OBSCENITY:  That quality in words or things which presents what is offensive to chasity or purity of mind; obscene or impure lanquage or acts; moral impurity; lewdness; obsceneness; as, the obscenity of a speech, or a picture. Mr.Cowley asserts plainly, that obscenity has no place in wit. Dryden. No pardon vile obscenity should find. Pope. 

OBSCURANT:  One who obscures; one who prevents enlightenment or hinders the progress of knowledge and wisdom. Coleridge. 

OBSCURANTISM:  The system or the principles of the obscurants. C. Kingsley. 

OBSCURANTIST:  Same as Obscurant. Ed. Rev. 

OBSCURATION:  The act or operation of obscuring; the state of being obscured; as, the obscuration of the moon in an eclipse. Sir J. Herschel. 

OBSCURE:  To render obscure; to darken; to make dim; to keep in the dark; to hide; to make less visible, intelligible, legible, glorious, beautiful, or illustrious. They are all couched in a pit hard by Herne's oak, with obscured lights. Shak. Why, 't is an office of discovery, love, And I should be obscured. Shak. There is scarce any duty which has been so obscured by the writings of learned men as this. Wake. And seest not sin obscures thy godlike frame Dryden. 

OBSCURE:  To conceal one's self; to hide; to keep dark. [Obs.] How! There's bad news. I must obscure, and hear it. Beau. & Fl. 

OBSCURE:  Obscurity. [Obs.] Milton. 

OBSCURELY:  In an obscure manner. Milton. 

OBSCUREMENT:  The act of obscuring, or the state of being obscured; obscuration. Pomfret. 

OBSCURENESS:  Obscurity. Bp. Hall. 

OBSCURER:  One who, or that which, obscures. 

OBSCURITY:  The quality or state of being obscure; darkness; privacy; inconspicuousness; unintelligibleness; uncertainty. Yuo are not for obscurity designed. Dryden. They were now brought forth from obscurity, to be contemplated by artists with admiration and despair. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Darkness; dimness; gloom. See Darkness. 

OBSECRATE:  To beseech; to supplicate; to implore. [R.]. Cockerman. 

OBSECRATION:  A figure of speech in which the orator implores the assistance of God or man. 

OBSECRATORY:  Expressing, or used in, entreaty; supplicatory. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

OBSEQUENT:  Obedient; submissive; obsequious. [Obs.] Fotherby. 

OBSEQUIENCE:  Obsequiousness. [R.] 

OBSEQUIES:  See Obsequy. 

OBSEQUIOUS:  Of or pertaining to obsequies; funereal. [R.] "To do obsequious sorrow." Shak.  Syn.  -- Compliant; obedient; servile. See Yielding. 

OBSEQUIOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being obsequious. South. 

OBSERVABLE:  Worthy or capable of being observed; discernible; noticeable; remarkable. Sir. T. Browne. The difference is sufficiently observable. Southey. -- Ob*serv"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Ob*serv"a*bly, adv. 

OBSERVANCY:  Observance. [Obs.] 

OBSERVANDUM:  A thing to be observed. Swift. 

OBSERVANT:  An Observantine. 

OBSERVANTINE:  One of a branch of the Order of Franciscans, who profess to adhere more strictly than the Conventuals to the intention of the founder, especially as to poverty; -- called also Observants. 

OBSERVANTLY:  In an observant manner. 

OBSERVATIONAL:  Of a pertaining to observation; consisting of, or containing, observations. Chalmers.  OBSERVATION CAR Ob`ser*va"tion car.  A railway passenger car made so as to facilitate seeing the scenery en route; a car open, or with glass sides, or with a kind of open balcony at the rear. 

OBSERVATIVE:  Observing; watchful. 

OBSERVATORY:  A lookout on a flank of a battery whence an officer can note the range and effect of the fire. Farrow. 

OBSERVERSHIP:  The office or work of an observer. 

OBSERVING:  Giving particular attention; habitually attentive to what passes; as, an observing person; an observing mind.  -- Ob*serv"ing*ly, adv. 

OBSESS:  To besiege; to beset. Sir T. Elyot. 

OBSIDIAN:  A kind of glass produced by volcanoes. It is usually of a black color, and opaque, except in thin splinters.  Note: In a thin section it often exhibits a fluidal structure, marked by the arrangement of microlites in the lines of the flow of the molten mass. 

OBSIDIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a siege. Obsidional crown (Rom.Antiq.), a crown bestowed upon a general who raised the siege of a beleaguered place, or upon one who held out against a siege. 

OBSIGILLATION:  A sealing up. [Obs.] Maunder. 

OBSIGN:  To seal; to confirm, as by a seal or stamp. [Obs.] Bradford. 

OBSIGNATE:  To seal; to ratify. [Obs.] Barrow. 

OBSIGNATION:  The act of sealing or ratifying; the state of being sealed or confirmed; confirmation, as by the Holy Spirit. The spirit of manifestation will but upbraid you in the shame and horror of a sad eternity, if you have not the spirit of obsignation. Jer. Taylor. 

OBSIGNATORY:  Ratifying; confirming by sealing. [Obs.] Samuel Ward (1643) 

OBSOLESCE:  To become obsolescent. [R.] Fitzed. Hall. 

OBSOLESCENCE:  The state of becoming obsolete. 

OBSOLESCENT:  Going out of use; becoming obsolete; passing into desuetude. 

OBSOLETE:  Not very distinct; obscure; rudimental; imperfectly developed; abortive.  Syn.  -- Ancient; antiquated; old-fashioned; antique; old; disused; neglected. See Ancient. 

OBSOLETE:  To become obsolete; to go out of use. [R.] Fitzed. Hall. 

OBSOLETELY:  In an obsolete manner. 

OBSOLETENESS:  Indistinctness; want of development. 

OBSOLETISM:  A disused word or phrase; an archaism. Fitzed. Hall. 

OBSTACLE:  That which stands in the way, or opposes; anything that hinders progress; a hindrance; an obstruction, physical or moral. If all obstacles were cut away. And that my path were even to the crown. Shak.  Syn.  -- Impediment; obstuction; hindrance; difficulty. See Impediment, and Obstruction. 

OBSTANCY:  Opposition; impediment; obstruction. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  OBSTETRIC; OBSTETRICAL Ob*stet"ric, Ob*stet"ric*al, a. Etym: [L. obstetricius, fr. obstetrix, -icis, a midwife, fr. obstare to stand before: cf.F. obstétrique. See Obstacle.]  Of or pertaining to midwifery, or the delivery of women in childbed; as, the obstetric art. Obstetrical toad (Zoöl.), a European toad of the genus Alytes, especially A. obstetricans. The eggs are laid in a string which the male winds around his legs, and carries about until the young are hatched. 

OBSTETRICATE:  To perform the office of midwife. [Obs.] "Nature does obstetricate." Evelyn. 

OBSTETRICATE:  To assist as a midwife. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse. 

OBSTETRICATION:  The act of assisting as a midwife; delivery. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

OBSTETRICIAN:  One skilled in obstetrics; an accoucheur. 

OBSTETRICIOUS:  Serving to assist childbirth; obstetric; hence, facilitating any bringing forth or deliverance. [Obs.] Yet is all human teaching but maieutical, or obstetricious. Cudworth. 

OBSTETRICS:  The science of midwifery; the art of assisting women in parturition, or in the trouble incident to childbirth. 

OBSTETRICY:  Obstetrics. [R.] Dunglison. 

OBSTINATION:  Obstinacy; stubbornness. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

OBSTIPATION:  Extreme constipation. [Obs.] Hooper. 

OBSTREPEROUS:  Attended by, or making, a loud and tumultuous noise; clamorous; noisy; vociferous. "The obstreperous city." Wordsworth. "Obstreperous approbation." Addison. Beating the air with their obstreperous beaks. B. Jonson. -- Ob*strep"er*ous*ly, adv.  -- Ob*strep"er*ous*ness, n. 

OBSTRICTION:  The state of being constrained, bound, or obliged; that which constrains or obliges; obligation; bond. [R.] Milton. 

OBSTRINGE:  To constrain; to put under obligation. [R.] Bp. Gardiner. 

OBSTRUCTER:  One who obstructs or hinders. 

OBSTRUCTIONISM:  The act or the policy of obstructing progress. Lond. Lit. World. 

OBSTRUCTIONIST:  One who hinders progress; one who obstructs business, as in a legislative body.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to obstructionists. [Recent] 

OBSTRUCTIVE:  Tending to obstruct; presenting obstacles; hindering; causing impediment.  -- Ob*struct"ive*ly, adv. 

OBSTRUCTIVE:  An obstructive person or thing. 

OBSTRUENT:  Causing obstruction; blocking up; hindering; as, an obstruent medicine. Johnson. 

OBSTRUENT:  Anything that obstructs or closes a passage; esp., that which obstructs natural passages in the body; as, a medicine which acts as an obstruent. 

OBSTUPEFACTION:  See Stupefaction. [Obs.] Howell. 

OBSTUPEFACTIVE:  Stupefactive. [Obs.] 

OBSTUPEFY:  See Stupefy. [Obs.] 

OBTAINABLE:  Capable of being obtained. 

OBTAINER:  One who obtains. 

OBTAINMENT:  The act or process of obtaining; attainment. Milton. 

OBTECTED:  Covered with a hard chitinous case, as the pupa of certain files. 

OBTEMPER:  To obey (a judgment or decree). 

OBTEMPERATE:  To obey. [Obs.] Johnson. 

OBTENEBRATION:  The act of darkening; the state of being darkened; darkness. [Obs.] In every megrim or vertigo, there is an obtenebration joined with a semblance of turning round. Bacon. 

OBTENSION:  The act of obtending. [Obs.] Johnson. 

OBTEST:  To protest. [R.] E. Waterhouse. 

OBTESTATION:  The act of obtesting; supplication; protestation. [R.] Antonio asserted this with great obtestation. Evelyn. 

OBTRECTATION:  Slander; detraction; calumny. [Obs.] Barrow. 

OBTRUDE:  To thrust one's self upon a company or upon attention; to intrude.  Syn.  -- To Obtrude, Intrude. To intrude is to thrust one's self into a place, society, etc., without right, or uninvited; to obtrude is to force one's self, remarks, opinions, etc., into society or upon persons with whom one has no such intimacy as to justify such boldness. 

OBTRUDER:  One who obtrudes. Boyle. 

OBTRUNCATE:  To deprive of a limb; to lop. [R.] 

OBTRUNCATION:  The act of lopping or cutting off. [R.] Cockeram. 

OBTRUSIONIST:  One who practices or excuses obtrusion. [R.] Gent. Mag. 

OBTRUSIVE:  Disposed to obtrude; inclined to intrude or thrust one's self or one's opinions upon others, or to enter uninvited; forward; pushing; intrusive.  -- Ob*tru"sive*ly, adv.  -- Ob*tru"sive*ness, n. Not obvious, not obtrusive, but retired. Milton. 

OBTUND:  To reduce the edge, pungency, or violent action of; to dull; to blunt; to deaden; to quell; as, to obtund the acrimony of the gall. [Archaic] Harvey. They...have filled all our law books with the obtunding story of their suits and trials. Milton. 

OBTUNDENT:  A substance which sheathes a part, or blunts irritation, usually some bland, oily, or mucilaginous matter; -- nearly the same as demulcent. Forsyth. 

OBTUNDER:  That which obtunds or blunts; especially, that which blunts sensibility. 

OBTURATE:  To stop or close, as an opening; specif., (Ordnance),  to stop (a gun breech) so as to prevent the escape of gas in firing. 

OBTURATION:  The act of stopping up, or closing, an opening. "Deaf by an outward obturation." Bp. Hall. 

OBTURATOR:  An apparatus designed to close an unnatural opening, as a fissure of the palate. 

OBTURATOR:  Serving as an obturator; closing an opening; pertaining to, or in the region of, the obturator foramen; as, the obturator nerve. Obturator foramen (Anat.), an opening situated between the public and ischial parts of the innominate bone and closed by the obturator membrane; the thyroid foramen. 

OBTUSANGULAR:  See Obstuseangular. 

OBTUSE:  Having an obtuse angle; as, an obtuse-angled triangle. 

OBTUSELY:  In an obtuse manner. 

OBTUSENESS:  State or quality of being obtuse. 

OBTUSITY:  Obtuseness. Lond. Quart. Rev. 

OBUMBRANT:  Overhanging; as, obumbrant feathers. 

OBUMBRATE:  To shade; to darken; to cloud. [R.] Howell. 

OBUMBRATION:  Act of darkening or obscuring. [R.] Sir T. More. 

OBUNCOUS:  Hooked or crooked in an extreme degree. Maunder. 

OBVENTION:  The act of happening incidentally; that which happens casually; an incidental advantage; an occasional offering. [Obs.] "Tithes and other obventions." Spenser. Legacies bequeathed by the deaths of princes and great persons, and other casualities and obventions. Fuller. 

OBVERSANT:  Conversant; familiar. [Obs.] Bacon. 

OBVERSE:  Having the base, or end next the attachment, narrower than the top, as a leaf. 

OBVERSELY:  In an obverse manner. 

OBVERSION:  The act of immediate inference, by which we deny the opposite of anything which has been affirmed; as, all men are mortal; then, by obversion, no men are immortal. This is also described as "immediate inference by privative conception." Bain. 

OBVERT:  To turn toward. If its base be obverted towards us. I. Watts. 

OBVIATION:  The act of obviating, or the state of being obviated. 

OBVIOUS:  Overlapping; contorted; convolute; -- applied primarily, in botany, to two opposite leaves, each of which has one edge overlapping the nearest edge of the other, and secondarily to a circle of several leaves or petals which thus overlap. 

OBY:  See Obi. 

OCA:  A Peruvian name for certain species of Oxalis (O. crenata, and O. tuberosa) which bear edible tubers. 

OCARINA:  A kind of small simple wind instrument. 

OCCAMY:  An alloy imitating gold or silver. [Written also ochimy, ochymy, etc.] 

OCCASION:  To give occasion to; to cause; to produce; to induce; as, to occasion anxiety. South. If we inquire what it is that occasions men to make several combinations of simple ideas into distinct modes. Locke. 

OCCASIONABLE:  Capable of being occasioned or caused. Barrow. 

OCCASIONALISM:  The system of occasional causes; -- a name given to certain theories of the Cartesian school of philosophers, as to the intervention of the First Cause, by which they account for the apparent reciprocal action of the soul and the body. 

OCCASIONALITY:  Quality or state of being occasional; occasional occurrence. [R.] 

OCCASIONALLY:  In an occasional manner; on occasion; at times, as convenience requires or opportunity offers; not regularly. Stewart. The one, Wolsey, directly his subject by birth; the other, his subject occasionally by his preferment. Fuller. 

OCCASIONATE:  To occasion. [Obs.] The lowest may occasionate much ill. Dr. H. More. 

OCCASIONER:  One who, or that which, occasions, causes, or produces. Bp. Sanderson. 

OCCASIVE:  Of or pertaining to the setting sun; falling; descending; western. 

OCCECATION:  The act of making blind, or the state of being blind. [R.] "This inward occecation." Bp. Hall. 

OCCIDENT:  The part of the horizon where the sun last appears in the evening; that part of the earth towards the sunset; the west; -- opposed to orient. Specifically, in former times, Europe as opposed to Asia; now, also, the Western hemisphere. Chaucer. I may wander from east to occident. Shak. 

OCCIDENTALS:  Western Christians of the Latin rite. See Orientals. Shipley. 

OCCIDUOUS:  Western; occidental. [R.] Blount. 

OCCIPITAL:  Of or pertaining to the occiput, or back part of the head, or to the occipital bone. Occipital bone (Anat.), the bone which forms the posterior segment of the skull and surrounds the great foramen by which the spinal cord leaves the cranium. In the higher vertebrates it is usually composed of four bones, which become consolidated in the adult.  -- Occipital point (Anat.), the point of the occiput in the mesial plane farthest from the ophryon. 

OCCIPITAL:  The occipital bone.  OCCIPITO- Oc*cip"i*to- (. Etym: [See Occiput.]  A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near, the occiput; as, occipito-axial; occipito-mastoid. 

OCCIPITOAXIAL:  Of or pertaining to the occipital bone and second vertebra, or axis. 

OCCIPUT:  The back, or posterior, part of the head or skull; the region of the occipital bone.  2. (Zoöl.)  A plate which forms the back part of the head of insects. 

OCCISION:  A killing; the act of killing. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

OCCLUDE:  To take in and retain; to absorb; -- said especially with respect to gases; as iron, platinum, and palladium occlude large volumes of hydrogen. 

OCCLUDENT:  Serving to close; shutting up.  -- n.  That which closes or shuts up. Sterne. 

OCCLUSE:  Shut; closed. [Obs.] Holder. 

OCCLUSION:  The transient approximation of the edges of a natural opening; imperforation. Dunglison. Occlusion of gases (Chem. & Physics), the phenomenon of absorbing gases, as exhibited by platinum, palladium, iron, or charcoal; thus, palladium absorbs, or occludes, nearly a thousand times its own volume of hydrogen, and in this case a chemical compound seems to be formed. 

OCCRUSTATE:  To incrust; to harden. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

OCCULT:  Hidden from the eye or the understanding; inviable; secret; concealed; unknown. It is of an occult kind, and is so insensible in its advances as to escape observation. I. Taylor. Occult line (Geom.), a line drawn as a part of the construction of a figure or problem, but not to appear in the finished plan.  -- Occult qualities, those qualities whose effects only were observed, but the nature and relations of whose productive agencies were undetermined; -- so called by the schoolmen.  -- Occult sciences, those sciences of the Middle Ages which related to the supposed action or influence of occult qualities, or supernatural powers, as alchemy, magic, necromancy, and astrology. 

OCCULT:  To eclipse; to hide from sight. 

OCCULTATION:  The hiding of a heavenly body from sight by the intervention of some other of the heavenly bodies; -- applied especially to eclipses of stars and planets by the moon, and to the eclipses of satellites of planets by their primaries.  2. Fig.: The state of being occult. The reappearance of such an author after those long periods of occultation. Jeffrey. Circle of perpetual occultation. See under Circle. 

OCCULTED:  Concealed by the intervention of some other heavenly body, as a star by the moon. 

OCCULTING:  Same as Occultation. 

OCCULTISM:  A certain Oriental system of theosophy. A. P. Sinnett. 

OCCULTIST:  An adherent of occultism. 

OCCULTLY:  In an occult manner. 

OCCULTNESS:  State or quality of being occult. 

OCCUPANCY:  The act of taking or holding possession; possession; occupation. Title by occupancy (Law), a right of property acquired by taking the first possession of a thing, or possession of a thing which belonged to nobody, and appropriating it. Blackstone. Kent. 

OCCUPATE:  To occupy. [Obs.] Bacon. 

OCCURRENT:  Occurring or happening; hence, incidental; accidental. 

OCCURSE:  Same as Occursion. [Obs.] Bentley. 

OCCURSION:  A meeting; a clash; a collision. [Obs.] Boyle. 

OCEAN:  Of or pertaining to the main or great sea; as, the ocean waves; an ocean stream. Milton. 

OCEANOGRAPHY:  A description of the ocean. 

OCEANOLOGY:  That branch of science which relates to the ocean. 

OCEANUS:  The god of the great outer sea, or the river which was believed to flow around the whole earth. 

OCELLARY:  Of or pertaining to ocelli. 

OCELLATE:  Same as Ocellated. 

OCELOID:  Resembling the ocelot. 

OCELOT:  An American feline carnivore (Felis pardalis). It ranges from the Southwestern United States to Patagonia. It is covered with blackish ocellated spots and blotches, which are variously arranged. The ground color varies from reddish gray to tawny yellow.  OCHER; OCHRE O"cher, O"chre, n. Etym: [F.ocre, L. ochra, fr. Gr. (Min.) (a) A impure earthy ore of iron or a ferruginous clay, usually red (hematite) or yellow (limonite), -- used as a pigment in making paints, etc. The name is also applied to clays of other colors. (b) A metallic oxide occurring in earthy form; as, tungstic ocher or tungstite.  OCHEROUS; OCHREOUS O"cher*ous, O"chre*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ocreux.]  Of or pertaining to ocher; containing or resembling ocher; as, ocherous matter; ocherous soil. 

OCHERY:  Ocherous. [Written also ochrey, ochry.] 

OCHIMY:  See Occamy. 

OCHLESIS:  A general morbid condition induced by the crowding together of many persons, esp. sick persons, under one roof. G. Gregory. 

OCHLOCRACY:  A form of government by the multitude; a mobocracy. Hare.  OCHLOCRATIC; OCHLOCRATICAL Och`lo*crat`ic, Och`lo*crat`ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to ochlocracy; having the form or character of an ochlocracy; mobocratic.  -- Och`lo*crat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

OCHRACEOUS:  Ocherous. 

OCHRE:  See Ocher. 

OCHREA:  A greave or legging.  2. (Bot.)  A kind of sheath formed by two stipules united round a stem.  OCHREATE; OCHREATED O"chre*ate, O"chre*a`ted, a.  1. Wearing or furnished with an ochrea or legging; wearing boots; booted. A scholar undertook...to address himself ochreated unto the vice chancellor. Fuller.  2. (Bot.)  Provided with ochrea, or sheathformed stipules, as the rhubarb, yellow dock, and knotgrass. 

OCHREOUS:  See Ocherous. 

OCHREY:  See Ochery. 

OCHROLEUCOUS:  Yellowish white; having a faint tint of dingy yellow. Gray. 

OCHRY:  See Ochery. 

OCHYMY:  See Occamy.  -OCK -ock. Etym: [AS. -uc.]  A suffix used to form diminutives; as, bullock, hillock. 

OCRA:  See Okra. 

OCREA:  See Ochrea.  OCREATE; OCREATED O"cre*ate, O"cre*a"ted, a. Etym: [See Ochrea.]  Same as Ochreate, Ochreated.  OCTA- Oc"ta-.  A prefix meaning eight. See Octo-. 

OCTACHORD:  An instrument of eight strings; a system of eight tones. [Also written octochord.] 

OCTAD:  An atom or radical which has a valence of eight, or is octavalent. 

OCTAEDRAL:  See Octahedral. 

OCTAEMERON:  A fast of eight days before a great festival. Shipley. 

OCTAGON:  A plane figure of eight sides and eight angles.  2. Any structure (as a fortification) or place with eight sides or angles. Regular octagon, one in which the sides are all equal, and the angles also are all equal. 

OCTAGONAL:  Having eight sides and eight angles. 

OCTAGYNOUS:  Having eight pistils or styles; octogynous. 

OCTAHEDRAL:  Having eight faces or sides; of, pertaining to, or formed in, octahedrons; as, octahedral cleavage. Octahedral borax (Chem.), borax obtained from a saturated solution in octahedral crystals, which contain five molecules of water of crystallization; distinguished from common or prismatic borax.  -- Octahedral iron ore (Min.), magnetite. 

OCTAHEDRITE:  Titanium dioxide occurring in acute octahedral crystals. 

OCTAHEDRON:  A solid bounded by eight faces. The regular octahedron is contained by eight equal equilateral triangles. 

OCTAMEROUS:  Having the parts in eights; as, an octamerous flower; octamerous mesenteries in polyps. 

OCTAMETER:  A verse containing eight feet; as, -- Deep'' in|to'' the | dark''ness | peer''ing, | long'' I | stood'' there | wond'''ring, | fear''ing. Poe. 

OCTANDER:  One of the Octandria. 

OCTANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants, in which the flowers have eight stamens not united to one another or to the pistil.  OCTANDRIAN; OCTANDROUS Oc*tan"dri*an, Oc*tan"drous, a. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the Octandria; having eight distinct stamens. 

OCTANE:  Any one of a group of metametric hydrocarcons (C8H18) of the methane series. The most important is a colorless, volatile, inflammable liquid, found in petroleum, and a constituent of benzene or ligroin. 

OCTANGULAR:  Having eight angles; eight-angled.  -- Oc*tan"gu*lar*ness, n. 

OCTANT:  The eighth part of a circle; an arc of 45 degrees.  2. (Astron. & Astrol.)  The position or aspect of a heavenly body, as the moon or a planet, when half way between conjunction, or opposition, and quadrature, or distant from another body 45 degrees.  3. An instrument for measuring angles (generally called a quadrant), having an arc which measures up to 9Oº, but being itself the eighth part of a circle. Cf. Sextant.  4. (Math. & Crystallog.)  One of the eight parts into which a space is divided by three coördinate planes. 

OCTAPLA:  A portion of the Old Testament prepared by Origen in the 3d century, containing the Hebrew text and seven Greek versions of it, arranged in eight parallel columns. 

OCTAROON:  See Octoroon. 

OCTASTYLE:  See Octostyle. 

OCTATEUCH:  A collection of eight books; especially, the first eight books of the Old Testament. [R.] 

OCTAVALENT:  Having a valence of eight; capable of being combined with, exchanged for, or compared with, eight atoms of hydrogen; -- said of certain atoms or radicals. 

OCTAVE:  The first two stanzas of a sonnet, consisting of four verses each; a stanza of eight lines. With mournful melody it continued this octave. Sir P. Sidney. Double octave. (Mus.) See under Double.  -- Octave flute (Mus.), a small flute, the tones of which range an octave higher than those of the German or ordinary flute; -- called also piccolo. See Piccolo.  4. A small cask of wine, the eighth part of a pipe. 

OCTAVE:  Consisting of eight; eight. Dryden. 

OCTAVO:  A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eight leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 8vo or 8º. 

OCTAVO:  Having eight leaves to a sheet; as, an octavo form, book, leaf, size, etc. 

OCTENE:  Same as Octylene. 

OCTENNIAL:  Happening every eighth year; also, lasting a period of eight years. Johnson.  -- Oc*ten"ni*al*ly, adv. 

OCTET:  A composition for eight parts, usually for eight solo instruments or voices. 

OCTIC:  Of the eighth degree or order.  -- n. (Alg.)  A quantic of the eighth degree. 

OCTILE:  Same as Octant, 2. [R.] 

OCTILLION:  According to the French method of numeration (which method is followed also in the United States) the number expressed by a unit with twenty-seven ciphers annexed. According to the English method, the number expressed by a unit with forty-eight ciphers annexed. See Numeration.  OCTO-; OCTA- Oc"to-, Oc"ta-. Etym: [L.octo eight, Gr. Eight.]  A combining form meaning eight; as in octodecimal, octodecimal, octolocular. 

OCTOATE:  A salt of an octoic acid; a caprylate. 

OCTOCERA:  Octocerata. 

OCTOCERATA:  A suborder of Cephalopoda including Octopus, Argonauta, and allied genera, having eight arms around the head; -- called also Octopoda. 

OCTOCHORD:  See Octachord. 

OCTODECIMO:  Having eighteen leaves to a sheet; as, an octodecimo form, book, leaf, size, etc. 

OCTODECIMO:  A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eighteen leaves; hence; indicating more or less definitely a size of book, whose sheets are so folded; -- usually written 18mo or 18º, and called eighteenmo. 

OCTODENTATE:  Having eight teeth. 

OCTODONT:  Of or pertaining to the Octodontidæ, a family of rodents which includes the coypu, and many other South American species. 

OCTOEDRICAL:  See Octahedral. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

OCTOFID:  Cleft or separated into eight segments, as a calyx. 

OCTOGAMY:  A marrying eight times. [R.] Chaucer. 

OCTOGENARIAN:  A person eighty years, or more, of age. 

OCTOGENARY:  Of eighty years of age. "Being then octogenary." Aubrey. 

OCTOGILD:  A pecuniary compensation for an injury, of eight times the value of the thing. 

OCTOGONAL:  See Octagonal. [Obs.] 

OCTOGYNIA:  A Linnaean order of plants having eight pistils.  OCTOGYNIAN; OCTOGYNOUS Oc`to*gyn"i*an, Oc*tog"y*nous, a. (Bot.)  Having eight pistils; octagynous. 

OCTOIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, octane; -- used specifically, to designate any one of a group of acids, the most important of which is called caprylic acid. 

OCTOLOCULAR:  Having eight cells for seeds. 

OCTONAPHTHENE:  A colorless liquid hydrocarbon of the octylene series, occurring in Caucasian petroleum. 

OCTONARY:  Of or pertaining to the number eight. Dr. H. More. 

OCTONOCULAR:  Having eight eyes. Derham. 

OCTOPEDE:  An animal having eight feet, as a spider. 

OCTOPETALOUS:  Having eight petals or flower leaves. 

OCTOPOD:  One of the Octocerata. 

OCTOPODIA:  Same as Octocerata. 

OCTOPUS:  A genus of eight-armed cephalopods, including numerous species, some of them of large size. See Devilfish, 

OCTORADIATED:  Having eight rays. 

OCTOROON:  The offspring of a quadroon and a white person; a mestee. 

OCTOSPERMOUS:  Containing eight seeds. 

OCTOSTICHOUS:  In eight vertical ranks, as leaves on a stem. 

OCTOSTYLE:  Having eight columns in the front; -- said of a temple or portico. The Parthenon is octostyle, but most large Greek temples are hexastele. See Hexastyle.  -- n.  An octostyle portico or temple.  OCTOSYLLABIC; OCTOSYLLABICAL Oc`to*syl*lab"ic, Oc`to*syl*lab"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. octosyllabus. See Octo-, and Syllable.]  Consisting of or containing eight syllables. 

OCTOSYLLABLE:  Octosyllabic. 

OCTOSYLLABLE:  A word of eight syllables. 

OCTOYL:  A hypothetical radical (C8H15O), regarded as the essential residue of octoic acid. 

OCTUOR:  See Octet. [R.] 

OCTUPLE:  Eightfold. 

OCTYL:  A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of octane, and as entering into its derivatives; as, octyl alcohol. 

OCTYLENE:  Any one of a series of metameric hydrocarbons (C8H16) of the ethylene series. In general they are combustible, colorless liquids. 

OCTYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, octyl; as, octylic ether. 

OCULAR:  Of or pertaining to the eye; optic. 

OCULAR:  The eyepiece of an optical instrument, as of a telescope or microscope. 

OCULARLY:  By the eye, or by actual sight. 

OCULARY:  Of or pertaining to the eye; ocular; optic; as, oculary medicines. Holland.  OCULATE; OCULATED Oc"u*late, Oc"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. oculatus, fr. oculus eye.]  1. Furnished with eyes.  2. Having spots or holes resembling eyes; ocellated. 

OCULIFORM:  In the form of an eye; resembling an eye; as, an oculiform pebble. 

OCULINA:  A genus of tropical corals, usually branched, and having a very volid texture. 

OCULINACEA:  A suborder of corals including many reef-building species, having round, starlike calicles. 

OCULIST:  One skilled in treating diseases of the eye.  OCULO- Oc"u*lo-.  A combining form from L. oculus the eye. 

OCULOMOTOR:  Of or pertaining to the movement of the eye; -- applied especially to the common motor nerves (or third pair of cranial nerves) which supply many of the muscles of the orbit.  -- n.  The oculomotor nerve. 

OCULONASAL:  Of or pertaining to the region of the eye and the nose; as, the oculonasal, or nasal, nerve, one of the branches of the ophthalmic. 

OCULUS:  A round window, usually a small one. 

OCYPODIAN:  One of a tribe of crabs which live in holes in the sand along the seashore, and run very rapidly, -- whence the name. 

OD:  An alleged force or natural power, supposed, by Reichenbach and others, to produce the phenomena of mesmerism, and to be developed by various agencies, as by magnets, heat, light, chemical or vital action, etc.; -- called also odyle or the odylic force. [Archaic] That od force of German Reichenbach Which still, from female finger tips, burnt blue. Mrs. Browning. 

ODAL:  Among the early and medieval Teutonic peoples, esp. Scandinavians, the heritable land held by the various odalmen constituting a family or kindred of freeborn tribesmen; also, the ownership of such land. The odal was subject only to certain rights of the family or kindred in restricting the freedom of transfer or sale and giving certain rights of redemption in case of change of ownership by inheritance, etc., and perhaps to other rights of the kindred or the tribe. Survivals of the early odal estates and tenure exist in Orkney and Shetland, where it is usually called by the variant form udal. 

ODAL:  Noting, or pert. to, odal land or ownership. 

ODALISQUE:  A female slave or concubine in the harem of the Turkish sultan. [Written also odahlic, odalisk, and odalik.] Not of those that men desire, sleek Odalisques, or oracles of mode. Tennyson.  ODALMAN; ODALWOMAN O"dal*man, O"dal*wom`an, n. (Teut. Law)  A man or woman having odal, or able to share in it by inheritance. 

ODD:  A member of a secret order, or fraternity, styled the Independent Order of Odd Fellows, established for mutual aid and social enjoyment. 

ODDLY:  In a manner measured by an odd number. 

ODDMENT:  An odd thing, or one that is left over, disconnected, fragmentary, or the like; something that is separated or disconnected from its fellows; esp. (in pl.),  the odds and ends. Specif.: (Printing) Any separate small part or page in a book, other than the text, such as the title page, contents, etc.  A miscellaneous collection of riddles, charms, gnomic verses, and "oddments" of different kinds. Saintsbury. 

ODE:  A short poetical composition proper to be set to music or sung; a lyric poem; esp., now, a poem characterized by sustained noble sentiment and appropriate dignity of style. Hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies on brambles. Shak. O! run; prevent them with thy humble ode, And lay it lowly at his blessed feet. Milton. Ode factor, one who makes, or who traffics in, odes; -- used contemptuously. 

ODELET:  A little or short ode. 

ODELSTHING:  The lower house of the Norwegian Storthing. See Legislature. 

ODEON:  A kind of theater in ancient Greece, smaller than the dramatic theater and roofed over, in which poets and musicians submitted their works to the approval of the public, and contended for prizes; -- hence, in modern usage, the name of a hall for musical or dramatic performances. 

ODEUM:  See Odeon. 

ODIBLE:  Fitted to excite hatred; hateful. [Obs.] Bale. 

ODIC:  Of or pertaining to od. See Od. [Archaic] -- Od"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ODIN:  The supreme deity of the Scandinavians; -- the same as Woden, of the German tribes. There in the Temple, carved in wood, The image of great Odin stood. Longfellow. 

ODINIC:  Of or pertaining to Odin. 

ODINISM:  Worship of Odin; broadly, the Teutonic heathenism. -- O"din*ist, n.  Odinism was valor; Christianism was humility, a nobler kind of valor. Carlyle. 

ODIST:  A writer of an ode or odes. 

ODIZE:  To charge with od. See Od. [Archaic] 

ODMYL:  A volatile liquid obtained by boiling sulphur with linseed oil. It has an unpleasant garlic odor. 

ODOMETER:  An instrument attached to the wheel of a vehicle, to measure the distance traversed; also, a wheel used by surveyors, which registers the miles and rods traversed. 

ODOMETRICAL:  Of or pertaining to the odometer, or to measurements made with it. 

ODOMETROUS:  Serving to measure distance on a road. [R.] Sydney Smith. 

ODOMETRY:  Measurement of distances by the odometer. 

ODONATA:  The division of insects that includes the dragon flies. 

ODONTALGIA:  Toothache. 

ODONTALGIC:  Of or pertaining to odontalgia.  -- n.  A remedy for the toothache. 

ODONTALGY:  Same as Odontalgia. 

ODONTIASIS:  Cutting of the teeth; dentition.  ODONTO- O*don"to-.  A combining form from Gr. 

ODONTOBLAST:  One of the more or less columnar cells on the outer surface of the pulp of a tooth; an odontoplast. They are supposed to be connected with the formation of dentine.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the cells which secrete the chitinous teeth of Mollusca. 

ODONTOCETE:  A subdivision of Cetacea, including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.; the toothed whales. 

ODONTOGENY:  Generetion, or mode of development, of the teeth. 

ODONTOGRAPH:  An instrument for marking or laying off the outlines of teeth of gear wheels. 

ODONTOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to odontography. 

ODONTOGRAPHY:  A description of the teeth. 

ODONTOLCAE:  An extinct order of ostrichlike aquatic birds having teeth, which are set in a groove in the jaw. It includes Hesperornis, and allied genera. See Hesperornis. [Written also Odontholcae, and Odontoholcae.] 

ODONTOLITE:  A fossil tooth colored a bright blue by phosphate of iron. It is used as an imitation of turquoise, and hence called bone turquoise. 

ODONTOLOGY:  The science which treats of the teeth, their structure and development. 

ODONTOPHORA:  Same as Cephalophora. 

ODONTOPHORE:  A special structure found in the mouth of most mollusks, except bivalves. It consists of several muscles and a cartilage which supports a chitinous radula, or lingual ribbon, armed with teeth. Also applied to the radula alone. See Radula. 

ODONTOPHOROUS:  Having an odontophore. 

ODONTOPLAST:  An odontoblast. 

ODONTOPTERYX:  An extinct Eocene bird having the jaws strongly serrated, or dentated, but destitute of true teeth. It was found near London. 

ODONTORNITHES:  A group of Mesozoic birds having the jaws armed with teeth, as in most other vertebrates. They have been divided into three orders: Odontolcæ, Odontotormæ, and Saururæ. 

ODONTOSTOMATOUS:  Having toothlike mandibles; -- applied to certain insects. 

ODONTOTORMAE:  An order of extinct toothed birds having the teeth in sockets, as in the genus Ichthyornis. See Ichthyornis. 

ODOR:  Any smell, whether fragrant or offensive; scent; perfume. Meseemed I smelt a garden of sweet flowers, That dainty odors from them threw around. Spenser. To be in bad odor, to be out of favor, or in bad repute. 

ODORAMENT:  A perfume; a strong scent. [Obs.] Burton. 

ODORANT:  Yielding odors; fragrant. Holland. 

ODORATE:  Odorous. [Obos.] Bacon. 

ODORATING:  Diffusing odor or scent; fragrant. 

ODORIFEROUS:  Bearing or yielding an odor; perfumed; usually, sweet of scent; fragrant; as, odoriferous spices, particles, fumes, breezes. Milton.  -- O`dor*if"er*ous*ly, adv. --O`dor*if"er*ous*ness, n. 

ODORINE:  A pungent oily substance obtained by redistilling bone oil. [Obs.] 

ODORLESS:  Free from odor. 

ODOROUS:  Having or emitting an odor or scent, esp. a sweet odor; fragrant; sweet-smelling. "Odorous bloom." Keble. Such fragrant flowers do give most odorous smell. Spenser. -- O"dor*ous*ly, adv.  -- O"dor*ous*ness, n. 

ODS:  A corruption of God's; -- formerly used in oaths and ejaculatory phrases. "Ods bodikin." "Ods pity." Shak.  ODYL; ODYLE Od"yl, Od"yle, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)  See Od. [Archaic]. 

ODYLIC:  Of or pertaining to odyle; odic; as, odylic force. [Archaic] 

ODYSSEY:  An epic poem attributed to Homer, which describes the return of Ulysses to Ithaca after the siege of Troy. 

OE:  a diphthong, employed in the Latin language, and thence in the English language, as the representative of the Greek diphthong oe. In many words in common use, e alone stands instead of oe. Classicists prefer to write the diphthong oe separate in Latin words. 

OECOID:  The colorless porous framework, or stroma, of red blood corpuscles from which the zooid, or hemoglobin and other substances of the corpuscles, may be dissolved out. 

OECOLOGY:  The various relations of animals and plants to one another and to the outer world. 

OECONOMICAL:  See Economical. 

OECONOMICS:  See Economics. 

OECONOMY:  See Economy. 

OECUMENICAL:  See Ecumenical. 

OEDEMA:  A swelling from effusion of watery fluid in the cellular tissue beneath the skin or mucous membrance; dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. [Written also edema.] 

OEDEMATOUS:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, edema; affected with edema.  OEIL-DE-BOEUF Oil`-de-bouf", n.; pl. Oils-de-bouf (#). [F., lit., eye of an ox.] (Arch.)  A circular or oval window; -- generally used of architecture of the 17th and 18th centuries. A famous room in the palace of Versailles bears this name, from the oval window opening into it.  OEIL-DE-PERDRIX Oil`-de-per`drix", a. [F., lit., eye of a partridge.]  1. (Ornamental Art) Characterized by, or decorated with, small round points, spots, or rings; as, oil-de-perdrix pattern.  2.  Having a brownish red color; -- used esp. of light-colored red wine.  OEILIAD; OEILLADE OE*il"iad, OEil"lade`, n. Etym: [F. oeillade, fr. oeel eye. See Eyelent.]  A glance of the eye; an amorous look. [Obs.] She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks. Shak. 

OELET:  An eye, bud, or shoot, as of a plant; an oilet. [Obs.] Holland. 

OENANTHATE:  A salt of the supposed oenanthic acid. 

OENANTHIC:  Having, or imparting, the odor characteristic of the bouquet of wine; specifically used, formerly, to designate an acid whose ethereal salts were supposed to occasion the peculiar bouquet, or aroma, of old wine. Cf. OEnanthylic. OEnanthic acid, an acid obtained from oenanthic ether by the action of alkalies.  -- OEnanthic ether, an ethereal substance (not to be confused with the bouquet, or aroma, of wine) found in wine lees, and consisting of a complex mixture of the ethereal salts of several of the higher acids of the acetic acid series. It has an ethereal odor, and it used in flavoring artificial wines and liquors. Called also oil of wine. See Essential oil, under Essential. 

OENANTHOL:  An oily substance obtained by the distillation of castor oil, recognized as the aldehyde of oenanthylic acid, and hence called also oenanthaldehyde. 

OENANTHONE:  The ketone of oenanthic acid. 

OENANTHYL:  A hydrocarbon radical formerly supposed to exist in oenanthic acid, now known to be identical with heptyl. 

OENANTHYLATE:  A salt of oenanthylic acid; as, potassium oenanthylate. 

OENANTHYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, oenanthyl; specifically, designating an acid formerly supposed to be identical with the acid in oenanthic ether, but now known to be identical with heptoic acid. 

OENANTHYLIDENE:  A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, having a garlic odor; heptine. 

OENANTHYLOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid formerly supposed to be the acid of oenanthylic ether, but now known to be a mixture of higher acids, especially capric acid. [Obs.] 

OENOCYAN:  The coloring matter of red wines. 

OENOLOGY:  Knowledge of wine, scientific or practical. 

OENOMEL:  Wine mixed with honey; mead, [R.] 

OENOMETER:  See Alcoholometer. 

OENOPHILIST:  A lover of wine. [R.] Thackeray. 

OENOTHIONIC:  Pertaining to an acid now called sulphovinic, or ethyl sulphuric, acid.  O'ER O'er, prep. & adv.  A contr. of Over. [Poetic] 

OERSTED:  The C.G.S. unit of magnetic reluctance or resistance, equal to the reluctance of a centimeter cube of air (or vacuum) between parallel faces. Also, a reluctance in which unit magnetomotive force sets up unit flux.  OESOPHAGUS; OESOPHAGEAL OE*soph"a*gus, n., OE`so*phag"e*al, a., etc.  Same as Esophagus, Esophageal, etc. 

OESTRIAN:  Of or pertaining to the gadflies.  -- n.  A gadfly. 

OESTRUAL:  Of or pertaining to sexual desire; -- mostly applied to brute animals; as, the oestrual period; oestrual influence. 

OESTRUATION:  The state of being under oestrual influence, or of having sexual desire. 

OESTRUS:  A genus of gadflies. The species which deposits its larvæ in the nasal cavities of sheep is oestrus ovis.  2. A vehement desire; esp. (Physiol.), the periodical sexual impulse of animals; heat; rut. 

OF:  In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as:  1. Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood. That holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. Luke i. 35. I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you. 1 Cor. xi. 23.  2. Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven. "Poor of spirit." Macaulay.  3. Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water.  4. Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Lam. iii. 22. It is a duty to communicate of those blessings we have received. Franklin.  5. Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity. For it was of the Lord to harden their hearts. Josh. xi. 20.  6. Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements. Knew you of this fair work Shak.  7. Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time.  8. Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba.  9. Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by. And told to her of [by] some. Chaucer. He taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all. Luke iv. 15. [Jesus] being forty days tempted of the devil. Luke iv. 1, 2.  Note: The use of the word in this sense, as applied to persons, is nearly obsolete.  10. Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod.  11. Denoting passage from one state to another; from. [Obs.] "O miserable of happy." Milton.  12. During; in the course of. Not be seen to wink of all the day. Shak. My custom always of the afternoon. Shak.  Note: Of may be used in a subjective or an objective sense. "The love of God" may mean, our love for God, or God's love for us.  Note: From is the primary sense of this preposition; a sense retained in off, the same word differently written for distinction. But this radical sense disappears in most of its application; as, a man of genius; a man of rare endowments; a fossil of a red color, or of an hexagonal figure; he lost all hope of relief; an affair of the cabinet; he is a man of decayed fortune; what is the price of corn In these and similar phrases, of denotes property or possession, or a relation of some sort involving connection. These applications, however all proceeded from the same primary sense. That which proceeds from, or is produced by, a person or thing, either has had, or still has, a close connection with the same; and hence the word was applied to cases of mere connection, not involving at all the idea of separation. Of consequence, of importance, value, or influence.  -- Of late, recently; in time not long past.  -- Of old, formerly; in time long past.  -- Of one's self, by one's self; without help or prompting; spontaneously. Why, knows not Montague, that of itself England is safe, if true within itself Shak. 

OFF:  In a general sense, denoting from or away from; as:  1. Denoting distance or separation; as, the house is a mile off.  2. Denoting the action of removing or separating; separation; as, to take off the hat or cloak; to cut off, to pare off, to clip off, to peel off, to tear off, to march off, to fly off, and the like.  3. Denoting a leaving, abandonment, departure, abatement, interruption, or remission; as, the fever goes off; the pain goes off; the game is off; all bets are off.  4. Denoting a different direction; not on or towards: away; as, to look off.  5. Denoting opposition or negation. [Obs.] The questions no way touch upon puritanism, either off or on. Bp. Sanderson. From off, off from; off. "A live coal...taken with the tongs from off the altar." Is. vi. 6.  -- Off and on. (a) Not constantly; not regularly; now and then; occasionally. (b) (Naut.) On different tacks, now toward, and now away from, the land.  -- To be off. (a) To depart; to escape; as, he was off without a moment's warning. (b) To be abandoned, as an agreement or purpose; as, the bet was declared to be off. [Colloq.] -- To come off, To cut off, To fall off, To go off, etc. See under Come, Cut, Fall, Go, etc.  -- To get off. (a) To utter; to discharge; as, to get off a joke. (b) To go away; to escape; as, to get off easily from a trial. [Colloq.] -- To take off, to mimic or personate.  -- To tell off (Mil.), to divide and practice a regiment or company in the several formations, preparatory to marching to the general parade for field exercises. Farrow.  -- To be well off, to be in good condition.  -- To be ill off, To be badly off, to be in poor condition. 

OFF:  Away; begone; -- a command to depart. 

OFF:  Not on; away from; as, to be off one's legs or off the bed; two miles off the shore. Addison. Off hand. See Offhand.  -- Off side (Football), out of play; -- said when a player has got in front of the ball in a scrimmage, or when the ball has been last touched by one of his own side behind him.  -- To be off color, to be of a wrong color.  -- To be off one's food, to have no appetite. (Colloq.) 

OFF:  The side of the field that is on the right of the wicket keeper. 

OFFCUT:  A portion ofthe printed sheet, in certain sizes of books, that is cut off before folding. 

OFFENCE:  See Offense. 

OFFEND:  To oppose or obstruct in duty; to cause to stumble; to cause to sin or to fall. [Obs.] Who hath you misboden or offended. Chaucer. If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out... And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off. Matt. v. 29, 3O. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Ps. cxix. 165. 

OFFENDANT:  An offender. [R.] Holland. 

OFFENDER:  One who offends; one who violates any law, divine or human; a wrongdoer. I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders. 1 Kings i. 21. 

OFFENDRESS:  A woman who offends. Shak.  OFFENSE; OFFENCE Of*fense", Of*fence", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. offensa. See Offend.]  1. The act of offending in any sense; esp., a crime or a sin, an affront or an injury. Who was delivered for our offenses, and was raised again for our justification. Rom. iv. 25. I have given my opinion against the authority of two great men, but I hope without offense to their memories. Dryden.  2. The state of being offended or displeased; anger; displeasure. He was content to give them just cause of offense, when they had power to make just revenge. Sir P. Sidney.  3. A cause or occasion of stumbling or of sin. [Obs.] Woe to that man by whom the offense cometh! Matt. xviii. 7.  Note: This word, like expense, is often spelled with a c. It ought, however, to undergo the same change with expense, the reasons being the same, namely, that s must be used in offensive as in expensive, and is found in the Latin offensio, and the French offense. To take offense, to feel, or assume to be, injured or affronted; to become angry or hostile.  -- Weapons of offense, those which are used in attack, in distinction from those of defense, which are used to repel.  Syn.  -- Displeasure; umbrage; resentment; misdeed; misdemeanor; trespass; transgression; delinquency; fault; sin; crime; affront; indignity; outrage; insult. 

OFFENSEFUL:  Causing offense; displeasing; wrong; as, an offenseful act. [R.] 

OFFENSELESS:  Unoffending; inoffensive. 

OFFENSIBLE:  That may give offense. [Obs.] 

OFFENSION:  Assault; attack. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OFFENSIVE:  The state or posture of one who offends or makes attack; aggressive attitude; the act of the attacking party; -- opposed to defensive. To act on the offensive, to be the attacking party. 

OFFERABLE:  Capable of being offered; suitable or worthy to be offered. 

OFFERER:  One who offers; esp., one who offers something to God in worship. Hooker. 

OFFERTURE:  Offer; proposal; overture. [Obs.] More offertures and advantages to his crown. Milton. 

OFFHAND:  Instant; ready; extemporaneous; as, an offhand speech; offhand excuses.  -- adv.  In an offhand manner; as, he replied offhand. 

OFFICE:  The apartments or outhouses in which the domestics discharge the duties attached to the service of a house, as kitchens, pantries, stables, etc. [Eng.] As for the offices, let them stand at distance. Bacon.  8. (Eccl.)  Any service other than that of ordination and the Mass; any prescribed religious service. This morning was read in the church, after the office was done, the declaration setting forth the late conspiracy against the king's person. Evelyn. Holy office. Same as Inquisition, n., 3.  -- Houses of office. Same as def. 7 above. Chaucer.  -- Little office (R.C.Ch.), an office recited in honor of the Virgin Mary.  -- Office bearer, an officer; one who has a specific office or duty to perform.  -- Office copy (Law), an authenticated or certified copy of a record, from the proper office. See Certified copies, under Copy. Abbott.  -- Office-found (Law), the finding of an inquest of office. See under Inquest.  -- Office holder. See Officeholder in the Vocabulary 

OFFICE:  To perform, as the duties of an office; to discharge. [Obs.] Shak. 

OFFICEHOLDER:  An officer, particularly one in the civil service; a placeman. 

OFFICER:  Specifically, a commissioned officer, in distinction from a warrant officer. Field officer, General officer, etc. See under Field, General. etc.  -- Officer of the day (Mil.), the officer who, on a given day, has charge for that day of the quard, prisoners, and police of the post or camp.  -- Officer of the deck, or Officer of the watch (Naut.), the officer temporarily in charge on the deck of a vessel, esp. a war vessel. 

OFFICER:  Copper wire with a strong but light insulation, used in wiring houses, etc. 

OFFICIAL:  Approved by authority; sanctioned by the pharmacopoeia; appointed to be used in medicine; as, an official drug or preparation. Cf. Officinal.  4. Discharging an office or function. [Obs.] The stomach and other parts official unto nutrition. Sir T. Browne. 

OFFICIALISM:  The state of being official; a system of official government; also, adherence to office routine; red-tapism. Officialism may often drift into blunders. Smiles. 

OFFICIALITY:  See Officialty. 

OFFICIALLY:  By the proper officer; by virtue of the proper authority; in pursuance of the special powers vested in an officer or office; as, accounts or reports officially vertified or rendered; letters officially communicated; persons officially notified. 

OFFICIALTY:  The charge, office, court, or jurisdiction of an official. Ayliffe. 

OFFICIANT:  The officer who officiates or performs an office, as the burial office. Shipley. 

OFFICIARY:  Of or pertaining to an office or an officer; official. [R.] Heylin. 

OFFICIATE:  To act as an officer in performing a duty; to transact the business of an office or public trust; to conduct a public service. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

OFFICIATE:  To discharge, perform, or supply, as an official duty or function. [Obs.] Merely to officiate light Round this opacous earth. Milton. 

OFFICIATOR:  One who officiates. Tylor. 

OFFICINAL:  Kept in stock by apothecaries; -- said of such drugs and medicines as may be obtained without special preparation or compounding; not magistral.  Note: This term is often interchanged with official, but in strict use officinal drugs are not necessarily official. See Official, a., 3. 

OFFING:  That part of the sea at a good distance from the shore, or where there is deep water and no need of a pilot; also, distance from the shore; as, the ship had ten miles offing; we saw a ship in the offing. 

OFFISH:  Shy or distant in manner. [Colloq. U.S.] 

OFFLET:  A pipe to let off water. 

OFFPRINT:  A reprint or excerpt. 

OFFPRINT:  To reprint (as an excerpt); as, the articles of some magazines are offprinted from other magazines. 

OFFSCOURING:  That which is scoured off; hence, refuse; rejected matter; that which is vile or despised. Lam. iii. 45. 

OFFSCUM:  Removed scum; refuse; dross. 

OFFSET:  In general, that which is set off, from, before, or against, something; as: --  1. (Bot.)  A short prostrate shoot, which takes root and produces a tuft of leaves, etc. See Illust. of Houseleek.  2. A sum, account, or value set off against another sum or account, as an equivalent; hence, anything which is given in exchange or retaliation; a set-off.  3. A spur from a range of hills or mountains.  4. (Arch.)  A horizontal ledge on the face of a wall, formed by a diminution of its thickness, or by the weathering or upper surface of a part built out from it; -- called also set-off.  5. (Surv.)  A short distance measured at right angles from a line actually run to some point in an irregular boundary, or to some object.  6. (Mech.)  An abrupt bend in an object, as a rod, by which one part is turned aside out of line, but nearly parallel, with the rest; the part thus bent aside.  7. (Print.)  A more or less distinct transfer of a printed page or picture to the opposite page, when the pages are pressed together before the ink is dry or when it is poor. Offset staff (Surv.), a rod, usually ten links long, used in measuring offsets. 

OFFSET:  To make an offset. 

OFFSHOOT:  That which shoots off or separates from a main stem, channel, family, race, etc.; as, the offshoots of a tree. 

OFFSHORE:  From the shore; as, an offshore wind; an offshore signal. 

OFFSKIP:  That part of a landscape which recedes from the spectator into distance. [R.] Fairholt. 

OFFTAKE:  See Obfuscate, Obfuscation. [Obs.] 

OFT:  Often; frequently; not rarely; many times. [Poetic] Chaucer. Oft she rejects, but never once offends. Pope. 

OFT:  Frequent; often; repeated. [Poetic] 

OFTEN:  Frequently; many times; not seldom. 

OFTEN:  Frequent; common; repeated. [R.] "Thine often infirmities." 1 Tim. v. 23. And weary thee with often welcomes. Beau. & Fl. 

OFTENNESS:  Frequency. Hooker. 

OFTENSITH:  Frequently; often. [Obs.] For whom I sighed have so oftensith. Gascoigne. 

OFTENTIDE:  Frequently; often. [Obs.] Robert of Brunne. 

OFTENTIMES:  Frequently; often; many times. Wordsworth. 

OFTER:  Compar. of Oft. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OFTTIMES:  Frequently; often. Milton. 

OGAM:  Same as Ogham. 

OGDOAD:  A thing made up of eight parts. Milman. 

OGDOASTICH:  A poem of eight lines. [Obs.] Selden 

OGEE:  A molding, the section of which is the form of the letter S, with the convex part above; cyma reversa. See Illust. under Cyma.  2. Hence, any similar figure used for any purpose. Ogee arch (Arch.), a pointed arch, each of the sides of which has the curve of an ogee, that is, has a reversed curve near the apex.  OGEECHEE LIME O*gee"chee lime`. Etym: [So named from the Ogeechee River in Georgia.] (Bot.) (a) The acid, olive-shaped, drupaceous fruit of a species of tupelo (Nyssa capitata) which grows in swamps in Georgia and Florida. (b) The tree which bears this fruit. 

OGGANITION:  Snarling; grumbling. [R.] Bp. Montagu. 

OGHAM:  A particular kind of writing practiced by the ancient Irish, and found in inscriptions on stones, metals, etc. [Written also ogam.] 

OGIVE:  The arch or rib which crosses a Gothic vault diagonally. 

OGLE:  To view or look at with side glances, as in fondness, or with a design to attract notice. And ogling all their audience, ere they speak. Dryden. 

OGLE:  An amorous side glance or look. Byron. 

OGLER:  One who ogles. Addison. 

OGLIO:  See Olio. 

OGRE:  An imaginary monster, or hideous giant of fairy tales, who lived on human beings; hence, any frightful giant; a cruel monster. His schoolroom must have resembled an ogre's den. Maccaulay. 

OGREISH:  Resembling an ogre; having the character or appearance of an ogre; suitable for an ogre. "An ogreish kind of jocularity." Dickens. 

OGRESS:  A female ogre. Tennyson.  OGRISM; OGREISM O"grism, O"gre*ism, n.  The character or manners of an ogre. 

OGYGIAN:  Of or pertaining to Ogyges, a mythical king of ancient Attica, or to a great deluge in Attica in his days; hence, primeval; of obscure antiquity. 

OH:  An exclamation expressing various emotions, according to the tone and manner, especially surprise, pain, sorrow, anxiety, or a wish. See the Note under O. 

OHM:  The standard unit in the measure of electrical resistance, being the resistance of a circuit in which a potential difference of one volt produces a current of one ampére. As defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893, and by United States Statute, it is a resistance substantially equal to 109 units of resistance of the C.G.S. system of electro-magnetic units, and is represented by the resistance offered to an unvarying electric current by a column of mercury at the temperature of melting ice 14.4521 grams in mass, of a constant cross-sectional area, and of the length of 106.3 centimeters. As thus defined it is called the international ohm. Ohm's law (Elec.), the statement of the fact that the strength or intensity of an electrical current is directly proportional to the electro-motive force, and inversely proportional to the resistance of the circuit. 

OHMMETER:  An instrument for indicating directly resistance in ohms. 

OHO:  An exclamation of surprise, etc.  -OID -oid. Etym: [Gr. wit: cf.F. -oïde, L. -oïdes.]  A suffix or combining form meaning like, resembling, in the form of; as in anthropoid, asteroid, spheroid. 

OIDIUM:  A genus of minute fungi which form a floccose mass of filaments on decaying fruit, etc. Many forms once referred to this genus are now believed to be temporary conditions of fungi of other genera, among them the vine mildew (Oïdium Tuckeri), which has caused much injury to grapes. 

OIL:  Any one of a great variety of unctuous combustible substances, not miscible with water; as, olive oil, whale oil, rock oil, etc. They are of animal, vegetable, or mineral origin and of varied composition, and they are variously used for food, for solvents, for anointing, lubrication, illumination, etc. By extension, any substance of an oily consistency; as, oil of vitriol.  Note: The mineral oils are varieties of petroleum. See Petroleum. The vegetable oils are of two classes, essential oils (see under Essential), and natural oils which in general resemble the animal oils and fats. Most of the natural oils and the animal oils and fats consist of ethereal salts of glycerin, with a large number of organic acids, principally stearic, oleic, and palmitic, forming respectively stearin, olein, and palmitin. Stearin and palmitin prevail in the solid oils and fats, and olein in the liquid oils. Mutton tallow, beef tallow, and lard are rich in stearin, human fat and palm oil in palmitin, and sperm and cod-liver oils in olein. In making soaps, the acids leave the glycerin and unite with the soda or potash. Animal oil, Bone oil, Dipple's oil, etc. (Old Chem.), a complex oil obtained by the distillation of animal substances, as bones. See Bone oil, under Bone.  -- Drying oils, Essential oils. (Chem.) See under Drying, and Essential.  -- Ethereal oil of wine, Heavy oil of wine. (Chem.) See under Ethereal.  -- Fixed oil. (Chem.) See under Fixed.  -- Oil bag (Zoöl.), a bag, cyst, or gland in animals, containing oil.  -- Oil beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle of the genus Meloe and allied genera. When disturbed they emit from the joints of the legs a yellowish oily liquor. Some species possess vesicating properties, and are used instead of cantharides.  -- Oil box, or Oil cellar (Mach.), a fixed box or reservoir, for lubricating a bearing; esp., the box for oil beneath the journal of a railway-car axle.  -- Oil cake. See under Cake.  -- Oil cock, a stopcock connected with an oil cup. See Oil cup.  -- Oil color. (a) A paint made by grinding a coloring substance in oil. (b) Such paints, taken in a general sense.  -- Oil cup, a cup, or small receptacle, connected with a bearing as a lubricator, and usually provided with a wick, wire, or adjustable valve for regulating the delivery of oil.  -- Oil engine, a gas engine worked with the explosive vapor of petroleum.  -- Oil gas, inflammable gas procured from oil, and used for lighting streets, houses, etc.  -- Oil gland. (a) (Zoöl.) A gland which secretes oil; especially in birds, the large gland at the base of the tail. (b) (Bot.) A gland, in some plants, producing oil.  -- Oil green, a pale yellowish green, like oil.  -- Oil of brick, empyreumatic oil obtained by subjecting a brick soaked in oil to distillation at a high temperature, -- used by lapidaries as a vehicle for the emery by which stones and gems are sawn or cut. Brande & C.  -- Oil of talc, a nostrum made of calcined talc, and famous in the 17th century as a cosmetic. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  -- Oil of vitriol (Chem.), strong sulphuric acid; -- so called from its oily consistency and from its forming the vitriols or sulphates.  -- Oil of wine, .  -- Oil painting. (a) The art of painting in oil colors. (b) Any kind of painting of which the pigments are originally ground in oil.  -- Oil palm (Bot.), a palm tree whose fruit furnishes oil, esp. Elæis Guineensis. See Elæis.  -- Oil sardine (Zoöl.), an East Indian herring (Clupea scombrina), valued for its oil.  -- Oil shark (Zoöl.) (a) The liver shark. (b) The tope.  -- Oil still, a still for hydrocarbons, esp. for petroleum.  -- Oil test, a test for determining the temperature at which petroleum oils give off vapor which is liable to explode.  -- Oil tree. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Ricinus (R. communis), from the seeds of which castor oil is obtained. (b) An Indian tree, the mahwa. See Mahwa. (c) The oil palm.  -- To burn the midnight oil, to study or work late at night.  -- Volatle oils. See Essential oils, under Essential. 

OIL:  To smear or rub over with oil; to lubricate with oil; to anoint with oil. 

OILBIRD:  See Guacharo. 

OILCLOTH:  Cloth treated with oil or paint, and used for marking garments, covering flooors, etc. 

OILED:  Covered or treated with oil; dressed with, or soaked in, oil. Oiled silk, silk rendered waterproof by saturation with boiled oil. 

OILERY:  The business, the place of business, or the goods, of a maker of, or dealer in, oils. 

OILINESS:  The quality of being oily. Bacon. 

OILMAN:  One who deals in oils; formerly, one who dealt in oils and pickles. 

OILNUT:  The buffalo nut. See Buffalo nut, under Buffalo.  Note: The name is also applied to various nuts and seeds yielding oil, as the butternut, cocoanut, oil-palm nut. 

OILSKIN:  Cloth made waterproof by oil. 

OILSTONE:  A variety of hone slate, or whetstone, used for whetting tools when lubricated with oil. 

OINEMENT:  Ointment. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OINOMANIA:  See oenomania. 

OINT:  To anoint. [Obs.] Dryden. 

OINTMENT:  That which serves to anoint; any soft unctuous substance used for smearing or anointing; an unguent. 

OJIBWAYS:  Same as Chippeways. 

OJO:  A spring, surrounded by rushes or rank grass; an oasis. [Southwestern U.S.] Bartlett. 

OKAPI:  A peculiar mammal (Okapia johnostoni) closely related to the giraffe, discovered in the deep forests of Belgian Kongo in 1900. It is smaller than an ox, and somewhat like a giraffe, except that the neck is much shorter. Like the giraffe, it has no dewclaws. There is a small prominence on each frontal bone of the male. The color of the body is chiefly reddish chestnut, the cheeks are yellowish white, and the fore and hind legs above the knees and the haunches are striped with purplish black and cream color. 

OKENITE:  A massive and fibrous mineral of a whitish color, chiefly hydrous silicate of lime. 

OKER:  See Ocher. 

OKRA:  An annual plant (Abelmoschus, or Hibiscus, esculentus), whose green pods, abounding in nutritious mucilage, are much used for soups, stews, or pickles; gumbo. [Written also ocra and ochra.]  -OL -ol. Etym: [From alcohol.] (Chem.)  A suffix denoting that the substance in the name of which it appears belongs to the series of alcohols or hydroxyl derivatives, as carbinol, glycerol, etc. 

OLAY:  Palm leaves, prepared for being written upon with a style pointed with steel. [Written also ola.] Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

OLD:  Open country. [Obs.] See World. Shak. 

OLD:  Virginia; -- a name of uncertain origin, perh. from the old designation of the colony as "the Colony and Dominion of Virginia." 

OLDEN:  Old; ancient; as, the olden time. "A minstrel of the olden stamp." J. C. Shairp. 

OLDEN:  To grow old; to age. [R.] She had oldened in that time. Thackeray.  OLD-FASHIONED Old`-fash"ioned, a.  Formed according to old or obsolete fashion or pattern; adhering to old customs or ideas; as, an old-fashioned dress, girl. "Old-fashioned men of wit." Addison. This old-fashioned, quaint abode. Longfellow.  OLD-GENTLEMANLY Old`-gen"tle*man*ly, a.  Pertaining to an old gentleman, or like one. Byron. 

OLDISH:  Somewhat old.  OLD LANG SYNE Old` lang syne".  See Auld lang syne.  OLD LINE STATE Old Line State.  Maryland; a nickname, alluding to the fact that its northern boundary in Mason and Dixon's line.  OLD-MAIDISH Old`-maid"ish, a.  Like an old maid; prim; precise; particular.  OLD-MAIDISM Old`-maid"ism, n.  The condition or characteristics of an old maid. G. Eliot. 

OLDNESS:  The state or quality of being old; old age. 

OLDSTER:  An old person. [Jocular] H. Kingsley.  OLD-WOMANISH Old`-wom`an*ish, a.  Like an old woman; anile.  -- Old`-wom"an*ish*ness, n. 

OLEA:  A genus of trees including the olive.  Note: The Chinese Olea fragrans, noted for its fragrance, and the American devilwood (Olea Americana) are now usually referred to another genus (Osmanthus). 

OLEACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Oleaceæ), mostly trees and shrubs, of which the olive is the type. It includes also the ash, the lilac, the true jasmine, and fringe tree. 

OLEAGINOUS:  Having the nature or qualities of oil; oily; unctuous. 

OLEAGINOUSNESS:  Oiliness. Boyle. 

OLEAMEN:  A soft ointment prepared from oil. Dunglison. 

OLEANDER:  A beautiful evergreen shrub of the Dogbane family, having clusters of fragrant red or white flowers. It is native of the East Indies, but the red variety has become common in the south of Europe. Called also rosebay, rose laurel, and South-sea rose.  Note: Every part of the plant is dangerously poisonous, and death has occured from using its wood for skewers in cooking meat. 

OLEANDRINE:  One of several alkaloids found in the leaves of the oleander. 

OLEATE:  A salt of oleic acid. Some oleates, as the oleate of mercury, are used in medicine by way of inunction. 

OLECRANAL:  Of or pertaining to the olecranon. 

OLECRANON:  The large process at the proximal end of the ulna which projects behind the articulation with the humerus and forms the bony prominence of the elbow. 

OLEFIANT:  Forming or producing an oil; specifically, designating a colorless gaseous hydrocarbon called ethylene. [Archaic] 

OLEFINE:  Olefiant gas, or ethylene; hence, by extension, any one of the series of unsaturated hydrocarbons of which ethylene is a type. See Ethylene. 

OLEIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, oil; as, oleic acid, an acid of the acrylic acid series found combined with glyceryl in the form of olein in certain animal and vegetable fats and oils, such as sperm oil, olive oil, etc. At low temperatures the acid is crystalline, but melts to an oily liquid above 14 

OLEIFEROUS:  Producing oil; as, oleiferous seeds. 

OLEIN:  A fat, liquid at ordinary temperatures, but solidifying at temperatures below 0° C., found abundantly in both the animal and vegetable kingdoms (see Palmitin). It dissolves solid fats, especially at 30-40° C. Chemically, olein is a glyceride of oleic acid; and, as three molecules of the acid are united to one molecule of glyceryl to form the fat, it is technically known as triolein. It is also called elain. 

OLENT:  Scented. [R.] R. Browning. 

OLEOGRAPH:  The form or figure assumed by a drop of oil when placed upon water or some other liquid with which it does not mix.  2. (Painting)  A picture produced in oils by a process analogous to that of lithographic printing. 

OLEOMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the weight and purity of oil; an elaiometer. 

OLEONE:  An oily liquid, obtained by distillation of calcium oleate, and probably consisting of the ketone of oleic acid.  OLEO OIL O`le*o oil.  An oil expressed from certain animal fats (esp. beef suet), the greater portion of the solid fat, or stearin, being left behind. It is mixture of olein, palmitin, and a little stearin. 

OLEOPTENE:  See Eleoptene. [R.] 

OLEORESIN:  A natural mixture of a terebinthinate oil and a resin.  2. (Med.)  A liquid or semiliquid preparation extracted (as from capsicum, cubebs, or ginger) by means of ether, and consisting of fixed or volatile oil holding resin in solution.  -- O`le*o*res"in*ous, a.  OLEOSE; OLEOUS O"le*ose`, O"le*ous, a. Etym: [L. oleosus, fr. oleum oil.]  Oily. [R.] Ray. Floyer. 

OLEOSITY:  The state or quality of being oily or fat; fatness. [R.] B. Jonson. 

OLERACEOUS:  Pertaining to pot herbs; of the nature or having the qualities of herbs for cookery; esculent. Sir T. Browne. 

OLF:  The European bullfinch. [Prov.Eng.] 

OLFACTION:  The sense by which the impressions made on the olfactory organs by the odorous particles in the atmosphere are perceived. 

OLFACTIVE:  See Olfactory, a. 

OLFACTOR:  A smelling organ; a nose. [R.] 

OLFACTORY:  Of, pertaining to, or connected with, the sense of smell; as, the olfactory nerves; the olfactory cells. Olfactory organ (Anat.), an organ for smelling. In vertebrates the olfactory organs are more or less complicated sacs, situated in the front part of the head and lined with epithelium innervated by the olfactory (or first cranial) nerves, and sensitive to odoriferous particles conveyed to it in the air or in water. 

OLFACTORY:  An olfactory organ; also, the sense of smell; -- usually in the plural. 

OLIBAN:  See Olibanum. 

OLIBANUM:  The fragrant gum resin of various species of Boswellia; Oriental frankincense. 

OLIBENE:  A colorless mobile liquid of a pleasant aromatic odor obtained by the distillation of olibanum, or frankincense, and regarded as a terpene; -- called also conimene.  OLID; OLIDOUS Ol"id, Ol"i*dous, a. Etym: [L. olidus, fr. olere to smell.]  Having a strong, disagreeable smell; fetid. [Obs.] Boyle. Sir T. Browne. 

OLIGANDROUS:  Having few stamens. 

OLIGANTHOUS:  Having few flowers. 

OLIGARCH:  A member of an oligarchy; one of the rulers in an oligarchical government. 

OLIGARCHAL:  Oligarchic. Glover.  OLIGARCHIC; OLIGARCHICAL Ol`i*gar"chic, Ol`i*gar"chic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. oligarchique. See Oligarchy.]  Of or pertaining to oligarchy, or government by a few. "Oligarchical exiles." Jowett (Thucyd. ). 

OLIGARCHIST:  An advocate or supporter of oligarchy. 

OLIGARCHY:  A form of government in which the supreme power is placed in the hands of a few persons; also, those who form the ruling few. All oligarchies, wherein a few men domineer, do what they list. Burton. 

OLIGIST:  Hematite or specular iron ore; -- prob. so called in allusion to its feeble magnetism, as compared with magnetite.  OLIGIST; OLIGISTIC Ol"i*gist, Ol`i*gis"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. oligiste.] (Min.)  Of or pertaining to hematite.  OLIGO- Ol"i*go-.  A combining form from Gr. few, little, small. 

OLIGOCENE:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain strata which occupy an intermediate position between the Eocene and Miocene periods.  -- n.  The Oligocene period. See the Chart of Geology. 

OLIGOCHAETA:  An order of Annelida which includes the earthworms and related species. 

OLIGOCHETE:  Of or pertaining to the Oligochæta. 

OLIGOCLASE:  A triclinic soda-lime feldspar. See Feldspar. 

OLIGOMEROUS:  Having few members in each set of organs; as, an oligomerous flower. 

OLIGOMYOLD:  Having few or imperfect syringeal muscles; -- said of some passerine birds (Oligomyodi). 

OLIGOPETALOUS:  Having few petals. 

OLIGOSEPALOUS:  Having few sepals. 

OLIGOSIDERITE:  A meteorite characterized by the presence of but a small amount of metallic iron. 

OLIGOSPERMOUS:  Having few seeds. 

OLIGOTOKOUS:  Producing few young. 

OLIO:  A collection of miscellaneous pieces. 

OLITORY:  Of or pertaining to, or produced in, a kitchen garden; used for kitchen purposes; as, olitory seeds. At convenient distance towards the olitory garden. Evelyn. 

OLIVA:  A genus of polished marine gastropod shells, chiefly tropical, and often beautifully colored. 

OLIVACEOUS:  Resembling the olive; of the color of the olive; olive-green. 

OLIVARY:  Like an olive. Olivary body (Anat.), an oval prominence on each side of the medulla oblongata; -- called also olive. 

OLIVASTER:  Of the color of the olive; tawny. Sir T. Herbert. 

OLIVE:  An olivary body. See under Olivary.  5. (Cookery)  A small slice of meat seasoned, rolled up, and cooked; as, olives of beef or veal.  Note: Olive is sometimes used adjectively and in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, olive brown, olive green, olive- colored, olive-skinned, olive crown, olive garden, olive tree, olive yard, etc. Bohemian olive (Bot.), a species of Elæagnus (E. angustifolia), the flowers of which are sometimes used in Southern Europe as a remedy for fevers.  -- Olive branch. (a) A branch of the olive tree, considered an emblem of peace. (b) Fig.: A child.  -- Olive brown, brown with a tinge of green.  -- Olive green, a dark brownish green, like the color of the olive.  -- Olive oil, an oil expressed from the ripe fruit of the olive, and much used as a salad oil, also in medicine and the arts.  -- Olive ore (Min.), olivenite.  -- Wild olive (Bot.), a name given to the oleaster or wild stock of the olive; also variously to several trees more or less resembling the olive. 

OLIVE:  Approaching the color of the olive; of a peculiar dark brownish, yellowish, or tawny green. 

OLIVED:  Decorated or furnished with olive trees. [R.] T. Warton. 

OLIVENITE:  An olive-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of copper; olive ore. 

OLIVER:  An olive grove. [Obs.] Chaucer.  2. Etym: [F. olivier.]  An olive tree. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OLIVER:  A small tilt hammer, worked by the foot. 

OLIVERIAN:  An adherent of Oliver Cromwell. Macaulay. 

OLIVIL:  A white crystalline substance, obtained from an exudation from the olive, and having a bitter-sweet taste and acid proporties. [Written also olivile.] Gregory. 

OLIVIN:  A complex bitter gum, found on the leaves of the olive tree; -- called also olivite. 

OLIVINE:  A common name of the yellowish green mineral chrysolite, esp. the variety found in eruptive rocks. 

OLIVITE:  See Olivin. 

OLOGY:  A colloquial or humorous name for any science or branch of knowledge. He had a smattering of mechanics, of physiology, geology, mineralogy, and all other ologies whatsoever. De Quincey. 

OLPE:  Originally, a leather flask or vessel for oils or liquids; afterward, an earthenware vase or pitcher without a spout. 

OLUSATRUM:  An umbelliferous plant, the common Alexanders of Western Europe (Smyrnium Olusatrum). 

OLYMPIAD:  A period of four years, by which the ancient Greeks reckoned time, being the interval from one celebration of the Olympic games to another, beginning with the victory of Coroebus in the foot race, which took place in the year 776 b.c.; as, the era of the olympiads.  OLYMPIAN; OLYMPIC O*lym"pi*an, O*lym"pic, a. Etym: [L. Olympius, Olympicus, Gr. olympique. See Olympiad.]  Of or pertaining to Olympus, a mountain of Thessaly, fabled as the seat of the gods, or to Olympia, a small plain in Elis. Olympic games, or Olympics (Greek Antiq.), the greatest of the national festivals of the ancient Greeks, consisting of athletic games and races, dedicated to Olympian Zeus, celebrated once in four years at Olympia, and continuing five days. 

OLYMPIANISM:  Worship of the Olympian gods, esp. as a dominant cult or religion.  OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIAN GAMES O*lym"pic, or O*lym"pi*an, games .  A modified revival of the ancient Olympian games, consisting of international athletic games, races, etc., now held once in four years, the first having been at Athens in 1896. 

OLYMPIONIC:  An ode in honor of a victor in the Olympic games. [R.] Johnson. 

OM:  A mystic syllable or ejaculation used by Hindus and Buddhists in religious rites, -- orig. among the Hindus an exclamation of assent, like Amen, then an invocation, and later a symbol of the trinity formed by Vishnu, Siva, and Brahma. -- Om mani padme hun, a sacred formula of buddhism (esp. of the Lamaists) translated "O, the Jewel in the Lotus, Amen," and referring to Amitabha, who is commonly represented as standing or sitting within a lotus.  -OMA -o"ma. Etym: [Gr.  A suffix used in medical terms to denote a morbid condition of some part, usually some kind of tumor; as in fibroma, glaucoma. 

OMAGRA:  Gout in the shoulder. 

OMAHAS:  A tribe of Indians who inhabited the south side of the Missouri River. They are now partly civilized and occupy a reservation in Nebraska.  OMANDER WOOD O*man"der wood`. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)  The wood of Diospyros ebenaster, a kind of ebony found in Ceylon. 

OMASUM:  The third division of the stomach of ruminants. See Manyplies, and Illust. under Ruminant.  OMBER; OMBRE Om"ber, Om"bre, n. Etym: [F. hombre, fr. Sp. hombre, lit., a man, fr. L. homo. See Human.]  A game at cards, borrowed from the Spaniards, and usually played by three persons. Pope. When ombre calls, his hand and heart are free, And, joined to two, he fails not to make three. Young. 

OMBRE:  A large Mediterranean food fish (Umbrina cirrhosa): -- called also umbra, and umbrine. 

OMBROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the rain that falls; a rain gauge. 

OMEGOID:  Having the form of the Greek capital letter Omega ( 

OMELET:  Eggs beaten up with a little flour, etc., and cooked in a frying pan; as, a plain omelet. 

OMEN:  An occurrence supposed to portend, or show the character of, some future event; any indication or action regarded as a foreshowing; a foreboding; a presage; an augury. Bid go with evil omen, and the brand Of infamy upon my name. Milton. 

OMEN:  To divine or to foreshow by signs or portents; to have omens or premonitions regarding; to predict; to augur; as, to omen ill of an enterprise. The yet unknown verdict, of which, however, all omened the tragical contents. Sir W. Scott. 

OMENED:  Attended by, or containing, an omen or omens; as, happy-omened day. 

OMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to an omentum or the omenta. 

OMENTUM:  A free fold of the peritoneum, or one serving to connect viscera, support blood vessels, etc.; an epiploön.  Note: The great, or gastrocolic, omentum forms, in most mammals, a great sac, which is attached to the stomach and transverse colon, is loaded with fat, and covers more or less of the intestines; the caul. The lesser, or gastrohepatic, omentum connects the stomach and liver and contains the hepatic vessels. The gastrosplenic omentum, or ligament, connects the stomach and spleen. 

OMER:  A Hebrew measure, the tenth of an ephah. See Ephah. Ex. xvi. 36. 

OMICRON:  Lit., the little, or short, O, o; the fifteenth letter of the Greek alphabet. 

OMILETICAL:  Homiletical. [Obs.] 

OMINATE:  To presage; to foreshow; to foretoken. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

OMINATION:  The act of ominating; presaging. [Obs.] Fuller. 

OMINOUS:  Of or pertaining to an omen or to omens; being or exhibiting an omen; significant; portentous; -- formerly used both in a favorable and unfavorable sense; now chiefly in the latter; foreboding or foreshowing evil; inauspicious; as, an ominous dread. He had a good ominous name to have made a peace. Bacon. In the heathen worship of God, a sacrifice without a heart was accounted ominous. South. -- Om"i*nous*ly, adv.  -- Om"i*nous*ness, n. 

OMISSIBLE:  Capable of being omitted; that may be omitted. 

OMISSIVE:  Leaving out; omitting. Bp. Hall.  -- O*mis"sive*ly, adv. 

OMITTANCE:  The act of omitting, or the state of being omitted; forbearance; neglect. Shak. 

OMITTER:  One who omits. Fuller. 

OMMATEAL:  Of or pertaining to an ommateum. 

OMMATEUM:  A compound eye, as of insects and crustaceans. 

OMMATIDIUM:  One of the single eyes forming the compound eyes of crustaceans, insects, and other invertebrates.  OMNI- Om"ni-. Etym: [L. omnis all.]  A combining form denoting all, every, everywhere; as in omnipotent, all-powerful; omnipresent. 

OMNIBUS:  A sheet-iron cover for articles in a leer or annealing arch, to protect them from drafts. Omnibus bill, a legislative bill which provides for a number of miscellaneous enactments or appropriations. [Parliamentary Cant, U.S.] -- Omnibus box, a large box in a theater, on a level with the stage and having communication with it. [Eng.] Thackeray. 

OMNICORPOREAL:  Comprehending or including all bodies; embracing all substance. [R.] Cudworth. 

OMNIETY:  That which is all-pervading or all-comprehensive; hence, the Deity. [R.] Omniety formed nullity into an essence. Sir T. Browne. 

OMNIFARIOUS:  Of all varieties, forms, or kinds. "Omnifarious learning." Coleridge. 

OMNIFEROUS:  All-bearing; producing all kinds. 

OMNIFIC:  All-creating. "The omnific word." Milton. 

OMNIFORM:  Having every form or shape. Berkeley. 

OMNIFORMITY:  The condition or quality of having every form. Dr. H. More. 

OMNIFY:  To render universal; to enlarge. [R.] Omnify the disputed point into a transcendent, and you may defy the opponent to lay hold of it. Coleridge. 

OMNIGENOUS:  Consisting of all kinds. [R.] 

OMNIGRAPH:  A pantograph. [R.] 

OMNIPARIENT:  Producing or bringing forth all things; all-producing. [R.] 

OMNIPARITY:  Equality in every part; general equality. 

OMNIPAROUS:  Producing all things; omniparient. 

OMNIPATIENT:  Capable of enduring all things. [R.] Carlyle.  OMNIPERCIPIENCE; OMNIPERCIPIENCY Om`ni*per*cip"i*ence, Om`ni*per*cip"i*en*cy, n.  Perception of everything. 

OMNIPERCIPIENT:  Perceiving everything. Dr. H. More.  OMNIPOTENCE; OMNIPOTENCY Om*nip"o*tence, Om*nip"o*ten*cy, n. Etym: [L. omnipotentia: cf.F. omnipotence.]  1. The state of being omnipotent; almighty power; hence, one who is omnipotent; the Deity. Will Omnipotence neglect to save The suffering virtue of the wise and brave Pope.  2. Unlimited power of a particular kind; as, love's omnipotence. Denham. 

OMNIPOTENTLY:  In an omnipotent manner. 

OMNIPRESENCE:  Presence in every place at the same time; unbounded or universal presence; ubiquity. His omnipresence fills Land, sea, and air, and every kind that lives. Milton. 

OMNIPRESENCY:  Omnipresence. [Obs.] 

OMNIPRESENT:  Present in all places at the same time; ubiquitous; as, the omnipresent Jehovah. Prior. 

OMNIPRESENTIAL:  Implying universal presence. [R.] South. 

OMNIPREVALENT:  Prevalent everywhere or in all things. Fuller. 

OMNISCIENCE:  The quality or state of being omniscient; -- an attribute peculiar to God. Dryden. 

OMNISCIENCY:  Omniscience. 

OMNISCIENT:  Having universal knowledge; knowing all things; infinitely knowing or wise; as, the omniscient God.  -- Om*nis"cient*ly, adv. For what can scape the eye Of God all-seeing, or deceive his heart Omniscient Milton. 

OMNISCIOUS:  All-knowing. [Obs.] Hakewill. 

OMNISPECTIVE:  Beholding everything; capable of seeing all things; all-seeing. [R.] "Omnispective Power!" Boyse. 

OMNIUM:  The aggregate value of the different stocks in which a loan to government is now usually funded. M'Culloch.  OMNIUM-GATHERUM Om`ni*um-gath"er*um, n. Etym: [A macaronic compound of L. omnium, gen.pl. of omnis all, and E. gather.]  A miscellaneous collection of things or persons; a confused mixture; a medley. [Colloq. & Humorous] Selden. 

OMNIVAGANT:  Wandering anywhere and everywhere. [R.] 

OMNIVORA:  A group of ungulate mammals including the hog and the hippopotamus. The term is also sometimes applied to the bears, and to certain passerine birds. 

OMNIVOROUS:  All-devouring; eating everything indiscriminately; as, omnivorous vanity; esp. (Zoöl.), eating both animal and vegetable food.  -- Om*niv"o*rous*ness, n.  OMO- O"mo-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the shoulder or the scapula. 

OMOHYOID:  Of or pertaining to the shoulder and the hyoid bone; as, the omohyoid muscle. 

OMOPHAGIC:  Eating raw flesh; using uncooked meat as food; as, omophagic feasts, rites. 

OMOPLATE:  The shoulder blade, or scapula. 

OMOSTEGITE:  The part of the carapace of a crustacean situated behind the cervical groove. 

OMOSTERNAL:  Of or pertaining to the omosternum. 

OMPHACINE:  Of, pertaining to, or expressed from, unripe fruit; as, omphacine oil. 

OMPHALIC:  Of or pertaining to the umbilicus, or navel.  OMPHALO- Om"pha*lo-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, the umbilicus, or navel. 

OMPHALOCELE:  A hernia at the navel. 

OMPHALODE:  The central part of the hilum of a seed, through which the nutrient vessels pass into the rhaphe or the chalaza; -- called also omphalodium. 

OMPHALOMANCY:  Divination by means of a child's navel, to learn how many children the mother may have. Crabb. 

OMPHALOMESARAIC:  Omphalomesenteric. 

OMPHALOMESENTERIC:  Of or pertaining to the umbilicus and mesentery; omphalomesaraic; as, the omphalomesenteric arteries and veins of a fetus. 

OMPHALOPSYCHITE:  A name of the Hesychasts, from their habit of gazing upon the navel.  OMPHALOPTER; OMPHALOPTIC Om`pha*lop"ter, Om`pha*lop"tic, n. Etym: [Gr. omphaloptre.]  An optical glass that is convex on both sides. [Obs.] Hutton. 

OMPHALOS:  The navel. 

OMPHALOTOMY:  The operation of dividing the navel-string. 

OMY:  Mellow, as land. [Prov.Eng.] Ray. 

ON:  The general signification of on is situation, motion, or condition with respect to contact or support beneath; as: --  1. At, or in contact with, the surface or upper part of a thing, and supported by it; placed or lying in contact with the surface; as, the book lies on the table, which stands on the floor of a house on an island. I stood on the bridge at midnight. Longfellow.  2. To or against the surface of; -- used to indicate the motion of a thing as coming or falling to the surface of another; as, rain falls on the earth. Whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken. Matt. xxi. 44.  3. Denoting performance or action by contact with the surface, upper part, or outside of anything; hence, by means of; with; as, to play on a violin or piano. Hence, figuratively, to work on one's feelings; to make an impression on the mind.  4. At or near; adjacent to; -- indicating situation, place, or position; as, on the one hand, on the other hand; the fleet is on the American coast.  5. In addition to; besides; -- indicating multiplication or succession in a series; as, heaps on heaps; mischief on mischief; loss on loss; thought on thought. Shak.  6. Indicating dependence or reliance; with confidence in; as, to depend on a person for assistance; to rely on; hence, indicating the ground or support of anything; as, he will promise on certain conditions; to bet on a horse.  7. At or in the time of; during; as, on Sunday we abstain from labor. See At (synonym).  8. At the time of, conveying some notion of cause or motive; as, on public occasions, the officers appear in full dress or uniform. Hence, in consequence of, or following; as, on the ratification of the treaty, the armies were disbanded.  9. Toward; for; -- indicating the object of some passion; as, have pity or compassion on him.  10. At the peril of, or for the safety of. "Hence, on thy life." Dryden.  11. By virtue of; with the pledge of; -- denoting a pledge or engagement, and put before the thing pledged; as, he affirmed or promised on his word, or on his honor.  12. To the account of; -- denoting imprecation or invocation, or coming to, falling, or resting upon; as, on us be all the blame; a curse on him. His blood be on us and on our children. Matt. xxvii. 25.  13. In reference or relation to; as, on our part expect punctuality; a satire on society.  14. Of. [Obs.] "Be not jealous on me." Shak. Or have we eaten on the insane root That takes the reason prisoner Shak.  Note: Instances of this usage are common in our older writers, and are sometimes now heard in illiterate speech.  15. Occupied with; in the performance of; as, only three officers are on duty; on a journey.  16. In the service of; connected with; of the number of; as, he is on a newspaper; on a committee.  Note: On and upon are in general interchangeable. In some applications upon is more euphonious, and is therefore to be preferred; but in most cases on is preferable. On a bowline. (Naut.) Same as Closehauled.  -- On a wind, or On the wind (Naut.), sailing closehauled.  -- On a sudden. See under Sudden.  -- On board, On draught, On fire, etc. See under Board, Draught, Fire, etc.  -- On it, On't, of it. [Obs. or Colloq.] Shak.  -- On shore, on land; to the shore.  -- On the road, On the way, On the wing, etc. See under Road, Way, etc.  -- On to, upon; on; to; -- sometimes written as one word, onto, and usually called a colloquialism; but it may be regarded in analogy with into. They have added the -en plural form on to an elder plural. Earle. We see the strength of the new movement in the new class of ecclesiastics whom it forced on to the stage. J. R. Green. 

ONAGER:  A military engine acting like a sling, which threw stones from a bag or wooden bucket, and was operated by machinery. Fairholt.  2. (Zoöl.)  A wild ass, especially the koulan. 

ONAGGA:  The dauw.  ONAGRACEOUS; ONAGRARIEOUS On`a*gra"ceous, On`a*gra*ri"e*ous, a. Etym: [From NL. Onagra an old scientific name of the evening primrose (Enothera), fr. Gr. (Bot.)  Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Onagraceæ or Onagrarieæ), which includes the fuchsia, the willow- herb (Epilobium), and the evening primrose (). 

ONANISM:  Self-pollution; masturbation. 

ONAPPO:  A nocturnal South American monkey (Callithrix discolor), noted for its agility; -- called also ventriloquist monkey. 

ONCE:  The ounce. 

ONCIDIUM:  A genus of tropical orchidaceous plants, the flower of one species of which (O. Papilio) resembles a butterfly. 

ONCOGRAPH:  An instrument for registering the changes observable with an oncometer. 

ONCOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the variations in size of the internal organs of the body, as the kidney, spleen, etc. 

ONCOST:  In cost accounting, expenditure which is involved in the process of manufacture or the performance of work and which cannot be charged directly to any particular article manufactured or work done (as where different kinds of goods are produced), but must be allocated so that each kind of goods or work shall bear its proper share. [Brit.] 

ONCOTOMY:  The opening of an abscess, or the removal of a tumor, with a cutting instrument. [Written also onkotomy.] Dunglison. 

ONDE:  Hatred; fury; envy. [Obs.]  ON DIT On` dit". Etym: [F.]  They say, or it is said.  -- n.  A flying report; rumor; as, it is a mere on dit. 

ONDOGRAM:  The record of an ondograph. 

ONDOGRAPH:  An instrument for autographically recording the wave forms of varying currents, esp. rapidly varying alternating currents. 

ONDOMETER:  An electric wave meter. 

ONDOYANT:  Wavy; having the surface marked by waves or slightly depressed furrows; as, ondoyant glass.  -ONE -one. Etym: [From Gr. -w`nh, signifying, female descendant.] (Chem.)  A suffix indicating that the substance, in the name of which it appears, is a ketone; as, acetone.  -ONE -one.(Chem.)  A termination indicating that the hydrocarbon to the name of which it is affixed belongs to the fourth series of hydrocarbons, or the third series of unsaturated hydrocarbonsl as, nonone. 

ONE:  Any person, indefinitely; a person or body; as, what one would have well done, one should do one's self. It was well worth one's while. Hawthorne. Against this sort of condemnation one must steel one's self as one best can. G. Eliot.  Note: One is often used with some, any, no, each, every, such, a, many a, another, the other, etc. It is sometimes joined with another, to denote a reciprocal relation. When any one heareth the word. Matt. xiii. 19. She knew every one who was any one in the land of Bohemia. Compton Reade. The Peloponnesians and the Athenians fought against one another. Jowett (Thucyd. ). The gentry received one another. Thackeray. 

ONE:  To cause to become one; to gather into a single whole; to unite; to assimilite. [Obs.] The rich folk that embraced and oned all their heart to treasure of the world. Chaucer. 

ONEBERRY:  The herb Paris. See Herb Paris, under Herb.  ONE-HAND One"-hand`, a.  Employing one hand; as, the one-hand alphabet. See Dactylology.  ONE-HORSE One"-horse`, a.  1. Drawn by one horse; having but a single horse; as, a one-horse carriage.  2. Second-rate; inferior; small. [Slang, U.S.] 

ONEIDAS:  A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the region near Oneida Lake in the State of New York, and forming part of the Five Nations. Remnants of the tribe now live in New York, Canada, and Wisconsin. 

ONEIROCRITIC:  An interpreter of dreams. Bp. Warburton. Addison.  ONEIROCRITIC; ONEIROCRITICAL O*nei`ro*crit`ic, O*nei`ro*crit`ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to the interpretation of dreams. Addison.  ONEIROCRITICISM; ONEIROCRITICS O*nei`ro*crit`i*cism, O*nei`ro*crit`ics, n.  The art of interpreting dreams. 

ONEIROMANCY:  Divination by means of dreams. De Quincey. 

ONEIROSCOPIST:  One who interprets dreams. 

ONEIROSCOPY:  The interpretation of dreams. 

ONELINESS:  The state of being one or single. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

ONELY:  See Only. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ONEMENT:  The state of being at one or reconciled. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ONENESS:  The state of being one; singleness in number; individuality; unity. Our God is one, or rather very oneness. Hooker. 

ONERARY:  Fitted for, or carrying, a burden. Johnson. 

ONERATE:  To load; to burden. [Obs.] Becon. 

ONERATION:  The act of loading. [Obs.] 

ONEROUS:  Burdensome; oppressive. "Too onerous a solicitude." I. Taylor. Onerous cause (Scots Law), a good and legal consideration; -- opposed to gratuitous. 

ONEROUSLY:  In an onerous manner. 

ONES:  Once. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ONESELF:  A reflexive form of the indefinite pronoun one. Commonly writen as two words, one's self. One's self (or more properly oneself), is quite a modern form. In Elizabethan English we find a man's self=one's self. Morris.  ONE-SIDED One`-sid"ed, a.  1. Having one side only, or one side prominent; hence, limited to one side; partial; unjust; unfair; as, a one-sided view or statement. "Unguarded and one-sided language." T. Arnold.  2. (Bot.)  Growing on one side of a stem; as, one-sided flowers.  -- One`-sid"ed-ly, adv.  -- One`-sid"ed*ness, n. 

ONETHE:  Scarcely. See Unnethe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ONGOING:  The act of going forward; progress; (pl.) affairs; business; current events. The common ongoings of this our commonplace world, and everyday life. Prof. Wilson. 

ONGUENT:  An unguent.  ON-HANGER On"-hang`er, n.  A hanger-on. 

ONION:  A liliaceous plant of the genus Allium (A.cepa), having a strong-flavored bulb and long hollow leaves; also, its bulbous root, much used as an article of food. The name is often extended to other species of the genus. Onion fish (Zoöl.), the grenadier.  -- Onion fly (Zoöl.) a dipterous insect whose larva feeds upon the onion; especially, Anthomyia ceparum and Ortalis flexa.  -- Welsh onion. (Bot.) See Cibol.  -- Wild onion (Bot.), a name given to several species of the genus Allium. 

ONIONSKIN:  A kind of thin translucent paper with a glossy finish. 

ONIROCRITIC:  See Oneirocritic. 

ONLINESS:  The state of being alone. [Obs.] 

ONLOFT:  Aloft; above ground. [Obs.] She kept her father's life onloft. Chaucer.  ON-LOOKER On"-look`er, n.  A looker-on.  ON-LOOKING On"-look`ing, a.  Looking on or forward. 

ONLY:  Save or except (that); -- an adversative used elliptically with or without that, and properly introducing a single fact or consideration. He might have seemed some secretary or clerk . . . only that his low, flat, unadorned cap . . . indicated that he belonged to the city. Sir W. Scott. 

ONOCERIN:  A white crystalline waxy substance extracted from the root of the leguminous plant Ononis spinosa. 

ONOLOGY:  Foolish discourse. [R.] 

ONOMANCY:  Divination by the letters of a name; nomancy. [R.] Camden.  ONOMANTIC; ONOMANTICAL On`o*man"tic, On`o*man"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to onomancy. [R.] 

ONOMASTIC:  Applied to a signature when the body of the instrument is in another's handwriting. Burrill. 

ONOMASTICON:  A collection of names and terms; a dictionary; specif., a collection of Greek names, with explanatory notes, made by Julius Pollux about A.D.180. 

ONOMATECHNY:  Prognostication by the letters of a name. 

ONOMATOLOGIST:  One versed in the history of names. Southey. 

ONOMATOLOGY:  The science of names or of their classification. 

ONOMATOPE:  An imitative word; an onomatopoetic word. 

ONOMATOPOEIA:  The formation of words in imitation of sounds; a figure of speech in which the sound of a word is imitative of the sound of the thing which the word represents; as, the buzz of bees; the hiss of a goose; the crackle of fire.  Note: It has been maintained by some philologist that all primary words, especially names, were formed by imitation of natural sounds. 

ONOMATOPOEIC:  Onomatopoetic. Whitney. 

ONOMATOPOETIC:  Of or pertaining to onomatopoeia; characterized by onomatopoeia; imitative; as, an onomatopoetic writer or word. Earle. 

ONOMATOPY:  Onomatopoeia. 

ONOMOMANCY:  See Onomancy. 

ONONDAGAS:  A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting what is now a part of the State of New York. They were the central or head tribe of the Five Nations. 

ONRUSH:  A rushing onward. 

ONSTEAD:  A single farmhouse; a steading. [Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Grose. Jamieson. 

ONTO:  On the top of; upon; on. See On to, under On, prep.  ONTOGENESIS; ONTOGENY On`to*gen"e*sis, On*tog"e*ny, n. Etym: [See Ontology, and Genesis.] (Biol.)  The history of the individual development of an organism; the history of the evolution of the germ; the development of an individual organism, -- in distinction from phylogeny, or evolution of the tribe. Called also henogenesis, henogeny. 

ONTOGENETIC:  Of or pertaining to ontogenesis; as, ontogenetic phenomena.  -- On`to*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ONTOGENIC:  Ontogenetic. 

ONTOLOGIC:  Ontological. 

ONTOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to ontology. 

ONTOLOGICALLY:  In an ontological manner. 

ONTOLOGIST:  One who is versed in or treats of ontology. Edin. Rev. 

ONTOLOGY:  That department of the science of metaphysics which investigates and explains the nature and essential properties and relations of all beings, as such, or the principles and causes of being. 

ONUS:  A burden; an obligation. Onus probandi ( Etym: [L.], obligation to furnish evidence to prove a thing; the burden of proof. 

ONWARD:  Toward a point before or in front; forward; progressively; as, to move onward. Not one looks backward, onward still he goes. Pope. 

ONWARDNESS:  Progress; advancement. 

ONWARDS:  Onward. 

ONY:  Any. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ONYCHOMANCY:  Divination by the nails. 

ONYCHOPHORA:  Malacopoda. 

ONYX:  Chalcedony in parallel layers of different shades of color. It is used for making cameos, the figure being cut in one layer with the next as a ground. Onyx marble, a banded variety of marble or calcium carbonate resembling onyx. It is obtained from Mexico. 

OO:  One. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OO:  A beautiful bird (Moho nobilis) of the Hawaiian Islands. It yields the brilliant yellow feathers formerly used in making the royal robes. Called also yellow-tufted honeysucker. 

OOECIUM:  One of the special zooids, or cells, of Bryozoa, destined to receive and develop ova; an ovicell. See Bryozoa.  OOGENESIS; OOEGENESIS O`ö*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. genesis.] (Physiol.)  The development, or mode of origin, of the ova.  OOGONIUM; OOEGONIUM O`ö*go"ni*um, n.; pl. L. Oögonia, E. Oögoniums. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)  A special cell in certain cryptogamous plants containing oöspheres, as in the rockweeds (Fucus), and the orders Vaucherieæ and Peronosporeæ. 

OOIDAL:  Shaped like an egg. 

OOK:  Oak. [Obs.] "A branched ook." Chaucer.  OOLITE; OOELITE O"ö*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf.F. oölithe. So named from its resemblance to the roe of fish.] (Geol.)  A variety of limestone, consisting of small round grains, resembling the roe of a fish. It sometimes constitutes extensive beds, as in the European Jurassic. See the Chart of Geology.  OOLITIC; OOELITIC O`ö*lit"ic, a. Etym: [Cf.F. oölithique.]  Of or pertaining to oölite; composed of, or resembling, oölite.  OOLOGICAL; OOELOGICAL O`ö*log"ic*al, a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to oölogy.  OOLOGIST; OOELOGIST O*öl"o*gist, n.  One versed in oölogy.  OOLOGY; OOELOGY O*öl"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]  The science of eggs in relation to their coloring, size, shape, and number. 

OOLONG:  A fragrant variety of black tea having somewhat the flavor of green tea. [Written also oulong.]  OOMIAC; OOMIAK Oo"mi*ac, Oo"mi*ak, n.  A long, broad boat used by the Eskimos. 

OON:  One. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OONES:  Once. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OOP:  To bind with a thread or cord; to join; to unite. [Scot.] Jamieson.  OOPACK; OOPAK Oo"pack, Oo"pak, n. Etym: [So named from a district in China.]  A kind of black tea.  OOPHORE; OOEPHORE O"ö*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  An alternately produced form of certain cryptogamous plants, as ferns, mosses, and the like, which bears antheridia and archegonia, and so has sexual fructification, as contrasted with the sporophore, which is nonsexual, but produces spores in countless number. In ferns the oöphore is a minute prothallus; in mosses it is the leafy plant.  OOPHORECTOMY; OOEPHORECTOMY O`ö*pho*rec"to*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)  Ovariotomy.  OOPHORIC; OOEPHORIC O`ö*phor"ic, a. (Bot.)  Having the nature of, or belonging to, an oöphore.  OOPHORIDIUM; OOEPHORIDIUM O`ö*pho*rid"i*um, n.; pl. L. Oöphorida, E. Oöphoridiums. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. Gr. Oöphore.] (Bot.)  The macrosporangium or case for the larger kind of spores in heterosporous flowerless plants.  OOPHORITIS; OOEPHORITIS O`ö*pho*ri"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.)  Ovaritis.  OOPHYTE; OOEPHYTE O"ö*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  Any plant of a proposed class or grand division (collectively termed oöphytes or Oöphyta), which have their sexual reproduction accomplished by motile antherozoids acting on oöspheres, either while included in their oögonia or after exclusion.  Note: This class was at first called Oösporeæ, and is made to include all algæ and fungi which have this kind of reproduction, however they may differ in all other respects, the contrasted classes of Thallophytes being Protophytes, Zygophytes, and Carpophytes. The whole system has its earnest advocates, but is rejected by many botanists. See Carpophyte.  OOPHYTIC; OOEPHYTIC O`ö*phyt"ic, a. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to an oöphyte. 

OORDOBA:  The monetary unit of Nicaragua, equivalent to the United States gold dollar.  OORIAL; OOERIAL O*ö"ri*al, n. (Zoöl.)  A wild, bearded sheep inhabiting the Ladakh mountains. It is reddish brown, with a dark beard from the chin to the chest.  OOSPERM; OOESPERM O"ö*sperm, n. Etym: [Gr. sperm.] (Biol.)  The ovum, after fusion with the spermatozoön in impregnation. Balfour.  OOSPHERE; OOESPHERE O"ö*sphere, n. Etym: [Gr. sphere.]  1. (Bot.)  An unfertilized, rounded mass of protoplasm, produced in an oögonium.  Note: After being fertilized by the access of antherozoids it becomes covered with a cell wall and develops into an oöspore, which may grow into a new plant like the parent.  2. (Bot.)  An analogous mass of protoplasm in the ovule of a flowering plant; an embryonic vesicle. Goodale.  OOSPORANGIUM; OOESPORANGIUM O`ö*spo*ran"gi*um, n.; pl. L. Oösporangia, E. Oösporangiums. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)  An oögonium; also, a case containing oval or rounded spores of some other kind than oöspores.  OOSPORE; OOESPORE O"ö*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.) (a) A special kind of spore resulting from the fertilization of an oösphere by antherozoids. (b) A fertilized oösphere in the ovule of a flowering plant.  OOSPORIC; OOESPORIC O`ö*spor"ic, a. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to an oöspore.  OOSTEGITE; OOESTEGITE O*ös"te*gite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)  One of the plates which in some Crustacea inclose a cavity wherein the eggs are hatched.  OOTHECA; OOETHECA O`ö*the"ca, n.; pl. Oöthecæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  An egg case, especially those of many kinds of mollusks, and of some insects, as the cockroach. Cf. Ooecium.  OOTOOID; OOETOOID; OOTOCOID; OOETOCOID O*öt"*ooid, O*öt"o*coid, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)  A half oviparous, or an oviparous, mammal; a marsupial or monotreme.  OOTYPE; OOETYPE O"ö*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.] (Zoöl.)  The part of the oviduct of certain trematode worms in which the ova are completed and furnished with a shell. 

OOZE:  To cause to ooze. Alex. Smith.  OOZE LEATHER Ooze leather.  Leather made from sheep and calf skins by mechanically forcing ooze through them; esp., such leather with a soft, finely granulated finish (called sometimes velvet finish) put on the flesh side for special purposes. Ordinary ooze leather is used for shoe uppers, in bookbinding, etc. Hence Ooze calf, Ooze finish, etc.  OOZOA; OOEZOA O`ö*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  Same as Acrita. 

OOZY:  Miry; containing soft mud; resembling ooze; as, the oozy bed of a river. Pope. 

OPACATE:  To darken; to cloud. [Obs.] Boyle. 

OPACOUS:  Opaque. [R.] Milton.  -- O*pa"cous*ness, n. [R.] 

OPACULAR:  Opaque. [Obs.] Sterne. 

OPAH:  A large oceanic fish (Lampris quttatus), inhabiting the Atlantic Ocean. It is remarkable for its brilliant colors, which are red, green, and blue, with tints of purple and gold, covered with round silvery spots. Called also king of the herrings. 

OPAKE:  See Opaque. 

OPAL:  A mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, but inferior to quartz in hardness and specific gravity.  Note: The precious opal presents a peculiar play of colors of delicate tints, and is highly esteemed as a gem. One kind, with a varied play of color in a reddish ground, is called the harlequin opal. The fire opal has colors like the red and yellow of flame. Common opal has a milky appearance. Menilite is a brown impure variety, occurring in concretions at Menilmontant, near Paris. Other varieties are cacholong, girasol, hyalite, and geyserite. 

OPALESCE:  To give forth a play of colors, like the opal. 

OPALESCENCE:  A reflection of a milky or pearly light from the interior of a mineral, as in the moonstone; the state or quality of being opalescent. 

OPALESCENT:  Reflecting a milky or pearly light from the interior; having an opaline play of colors. 

OPALINE:  Of, pertaining to, or like, opal in appearance; having changeable colors like those of the opal. 

OPALIZE:  To convert into opal, or a substance like opal. Lyell. 

OPALOTYPE:  A picture taken on "milky" glass. 

OPAQUE:  That which is opaque; opacity. Young. 

OPAQUENESS:  The state or quality of being impervious to light; opacity. Dr. H. More. 

OPE:  Open. [Poetic] Spenser. On Sunday heaven's gate stands ope. Herbert. 

OPE:  To open. [Poetic] Wilt thou not ope thy heart to know What rainbows teach and sunsets show Emerson. 

OPEIDOSCOPE:  An instrument, consisting of a tube having one end open and the other end covered with a thin flexible membrance to the center of which is attached a small mirror. It is used for exhibiting upon a screen, by means of rays reflected from the mirror, the vibratory motions caused by sounds produced at the open end of the tube, as by speaking or singing into it. A. E. Dolbear. 

OPELET:  A bright-colored European actinian (Anemonia, or Anthea, sulcata); -- so called because it does not retract its tentacles. 

OPEN:  Open or unobstructed space; clear land, without trees or obstructions; open ocean; open water. "To sail into the open." Jowett (Thucyd. ). Then we got into the open. W. Black. In open, in full view; without concealment; openly. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

OPEN:  To bark on scent or view of the game.  OPEN-AIR O"pen-air`, a.  Taking place in the open air; outdoor; as, an open-air game or meeting. 

OPENBILL:  A bird of the genus Anastomus, allied to the stork; -- so called because the two parts of the bill touch only at the base and tip. One species inhabits India, another Africa. Called also open- beak. See Illust. (m), under Beak.  OPEN DOOR O"pen door.  (a) Open or free admission to all; hospitable welcome; free opportunity.  She of the open soul and open door, With room about her hearth for all mankind. Lowell.  (b) In modern diplomacy, opportunity for political and commercial intercourse open to all upon equal terms, esp. with reference to a nation whose policy is wholly or partially fixed by nations foreign to itself, or to territory newly acquired by a conquering nation. In this sense, often used adjectively, as, open-door system, open-door policy, etc.  The steps taken by Britain to maintain the open door have so far proved to be perfectly futile. A. R. Colquhoun. 

OPENER:  One who, or that which, opens. "True opener of my eyes." Milton.  OPEN-EYED O"pen-eyed`, a.  With eyes widely open; watchful; vigilant. Shak.  OPEN-HANDED O"pen-hand`ed, a.  Generous; liberal; munificent.  -- O"pen-hand`ed*ness, n. J. S. Mill.  OPEN-HEADED O"pen-head`ed, a.  Bareheaded. [Obs.]  OPEN-HEARTED O"pen-heart`ed, a.  Candid; frank; generous. Dryden.  -- O"pen-heart`ed*ly, adv.  -- O"pen-heart`ed*ness, n. Walton.  OPEN-HEARTH STEEL Open-hearth steel.  See under Open. 

OPENLY:  Having the mouth open; gaping; hence, greedy; clamorous. L'Estrange. 

OPENNESS:  The quality or state of being open.  OPEN SEA Open sea. (Internat. Law)  A sea open to all nations. See Mare clausum.  OPEN VERDICT Open verdict. (Law)  A verdict on a preliminary investigation, finding the fact of a crime but not stating the criminal, or finding the fact of a violent death without disclosing the cause. 

OPENWORK:  A quarry; an open cut. Raymond. 

OPERABLE:  Practicable. [Obs.] 

OPERAMETER:  An instrument or machine for measuring work done, especially for ascertaining the number of rotations made by a machine or wheel in manufacturing cloth; a counter. Ure.  OPERANCE; OPERANCY Op"er*ance, Op"er*an*cy, n.  The act of operating or working; operation. [R.] 

OPERAND:  The symbol, quantity, or thing upon which a mathematical operation is performed; -- called also faciend. 

OPERANT:  Operative. [R.] Shak.  -- n.  An operative person or thing. [R.] Coleridge. 

OPERATE:  To perform some manual act upon a human body in a methodical manner, and usually with instruments, with a view to restore soundness or health, as in amputation, lithotomy, etc.  5. To deal in stocks or any commodity with a view to speculative profits. [Brokers' Cant] 

OPERATE:  Of or pertaining to the opera or to operas; characteristic of, or resembling, the opera. 

OPERATION:  Something to be done; some transformation to be made upon quantities, the transformation being indicated either by rules or symbols.  6. (Surg.)  Any methodical action of the hand, or of the hand with instruments, on the human body, to produce a curative or remedial effect, as in amputation, etc. Calculus of operations. See under Calculus. 

OPERATIVE:  Based upon, or consisting of, an operation or operations; as, operative surgery. 

OPERATIVE:  A skilled worker; an artisan; esp., one who operates a machine in a mill or manufactory. 

OPERATIVELY:  In an operative manner. 

OPERATOR:  One who performs some act upon the human body by means of the hand, or with instruments.  3. A dealer in stocks or any commodity for speculative purposes; a speculator. [Brokers' Cant]  4. (Math.)  The symbol that expresses the operation to be performed; -- called also facient. 

OPERATORY:  A laboratory. [Obs.] 

OPERCLE:  Any one of the bony plates which support the gill covers of fishes; an opercular bone.  2. (Zoöl.)  An operculum. 

OPERCULA:  See Operculum. 

OPERCULAR:  Of, pertaining to, or like, an operculum. 

OPERCULAR:  The principal opercular bone or operculum of fishes.  OPERCULATE; OPERCULATED O*per"cu*late, O*per"cu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. operculatus, p.p. of operculare to furnish with a lid, fr. operculum lid.]  1. (Bot.)  Closed by a lid or cover, as the capsules of the mosses.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having an operculum, or an apparatus for protecting the gills; -- said of shells and of fishes. 

OPERCULIFEROUS:  Bearing an operculum. 

OPERCULIFORM:  Having the form of a lid or cover. 

OPERCULIGENOUS:  Producing an operculum; -- said of the foot, or part of the foot, of certain mollusks. 

OPERETTA:  A short, light, musical drama. 

OPEROSE:  Wrought with labor; requiring labor; hence, tedious; wearisome. "Operose proceeding." Burke. "A very operose calculation." De Quincey.  -- Op"er*ose`ly, adv.  -- Op"er*ose`ness, n. 

OPEROSITY:  Laboriousness. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

OPEROUS:  Operose. [Obs.] Holder.  -- Op"er*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

OPERTANEOUS:  Concealed; private. [R.] 

OPETIDE:  Open time; -- applied to different things: (a) The early spring, or the time when flowers begin opening. [Archaic] Nares. (b) The time between Epiphany and Ash Wednesday wherein marriages were formerly solemnized publicly in churches. [Eng.] (c) The time after harvest when the common fields are open to all kinds of stock. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell. [Written also opentide.] 

OPHELIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a substance (called ophelic acid) extracted from a plant (Ophelia) of the Gentian family as a bitter yellowish sirup, used in India as a febrifuge and tonic. 

OPHICLEIDE:  A large brass wind instrument, formerly used in the orchestra and in military bands, having a loud tone, deep pitch, and a compass of three octaves; -- now generally supplanted by bass and contrabass tubas. Moore (Encyc. of Music). 

OPHIDIA:  The order of reptiles which includes the serpents.  Note: The most important divisions are: the Solenoglypha, having erectile perforated fangs, as the rattlesnake; the Proteroglypha, or elapine serpents, having permanently erect fang, as the cobra; the Asinea, or colubrine serpents, which are destitute of fangs; and the Opoterodonta, or Epanodonta, blindworms, in which the mouth is not dilatable. 

OPHIDIAN:  One of the Ophidia; a snake or serpent. 

OPHIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Ophidia; belonging to serpents. 

OPHIDIOID:  Of or pertaining to the Ophidiidæ, a family of fishes which includes many slender species.  -- n.  One of the Ophidiidæ. 

OPHIDION:  The typical genus of ophidioid fishes. [Written also Ophidium.] See Illust. under Ophidioid. 

OPHIDIOUS:  Ophidian. 

OPHIOLATRY:  The worship of serpents.  OPHIOLOGIC; OPHIOLOGICAL O`phi*o*log"ic, O`phi*o*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to ophiology. 

OPHIOLOGIST:  One versed in the natural history of serpents. 

OPHIOLOGY:  That part of natural history which treats of the ophidians, or serpents. 

OPHIOMANCY:  Divination by serpents, as by their manner of eating, or by their coils. 

OPHIOMORPHA:  An order of tailless amphibians having a slender, wormlike body with regular annulations, and usually with minute scales imbedded in the skin. The limbs are rudimentary or wanting. It includes the cæcilians. Called also Gymnophiona and Ophidobatrachia. 

OPHIOMORPHITE:  An ammonite. 

OPHIOMORPHOUS:  Having the form of a serpent. 

OPHIOPHAGOUS:  Feeding on serpents; -- said of certain birds and reptiles. 

OPHIOPHAGUS:  A genus of venomous East Indian snakes, which feed on other snakes. Ophiophagus elaps is said to be the largest and most deadly of poisonous snakes. 

OPHITE:  Of or pertaining to a serpent. [Obs.] 

OPHITE:  A greenish spotted porphyry, being a diabase whose pyroxene has been altered to uralite; -- first found in the Pyreness. So called from the colored spots which give it a mottled appearance.  -- O*phi"ic, a. 

OPHITE:  A mamber of a Gnostic serpent-worshiping sect of the second century. 

OPHIUCHUS:  A constellation in the Northern Hemisphere, delineated as a man holding a serpent in his hands; -- called also Serpentarius. 

OPHIURA:  A genus of ophiurioid starfishes. 

OPHIURAN:  Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea.  -- n.  One of the Ophiurioidea. 

OPHIURID:  Same as Ophiurioid. 

OPHIURIDA:  Same as Ophiurioidea. 

OPHIURIOID:  Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea.  -- n.  One of the Ophiurioidea. [Written also ophiuroid.]  OPHIURIOIDEA; OPHIUROIDEA O`phi*u`ri*oi"de*a, O`phi*u*roi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  A class of star-shaped echinoderms having a disklike body, with slender, articulated arms, which are not grooved beneath and are often very fragile; -- called also Ophiuroida and Ophiuridea. See Illust. under Brittle star. 

OPHRYON:  The supraorbital point. 

OPHTHALMIA:  An inflammation of the membranes or coats of the eye or of the eyeball. 

OPHTHALMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the eye; ocular; as the ophthalmic, or orbitonasal, nerve, a division of the trigeminal, which gives branches to the lachrymal gland, eyelids, nose, and forehead. Ophthalmic region (Zoöl.), the space around the eyes. 

OPHTHALMITE:  An eyestalk; the organ which bears the compound eyes of decapod Crustacea. 

OPHTHALMOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to ophthalmology. 

OPHTHALMOLOGIST:  One skilled in ophthalmology; an oculist. 

OPHTHALMOLOGY:  The science which treats of the structure, functions, and diseases of the eye. 

OPHTHALMOMETER:  An instrument devised by Helmholtz for measuring the size of a reflected image on the convex surface of the cornea and lens of the eye, by which their curvature can be ascertained. 

OPHTHALMOSCOPE:  An instrument for viewing the interior of the eye, particularly the retina. Light is thrown into the eye by a mirror (usually concave) and the interior is then examined with or without the aid of a lens.  -- Oph*thal`mo*scop"ic, a. 

OPHTHALMY:  Same as Ophthalmia. 

OPIANIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained by the oxidation of narcotine. 

OPIANINE:  An alkaloid found in small quantity in opium. It is identical with narcotine. 

OPIANYL:  Same as Meconin. 

OPIATE:  Inducing sleep; somniferous; narcotic; hence, anodyne; causing rest, dullness, or inaction; as, the opiate rod of Hermes. Milton. 

OPIATE:  To subject to the influence of an opiate; to put to sleep. [R.] Fenton. 

OPIE:  Opium. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OPIFEROUS:  Bringing help. [R.] 

OPIFICE:  Workmanship. [Obs.] Bailey. 

OPIFICER:  An artificer; a workman. [Obs.] "The almighty opificer." Bentley. 

OPINABLE:  Capable of being opined or thought. Holland. 

OPINATION:  The act of thinking; a supposition. [Obs.] 

OPINATIVE:  Obstinate in holding opinions; opinionated. [Obs.] -- O*pin"a*tive*ly, adv. [Obs.] Burton. Sir T. More. 

OPINATOR:  One fond of his own opinious; one who holds an opinion. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

OPINE:  To have an opinion; to judge; to think; to suppose. South. 

OPINER:  One who opines. Jer. Taylor.  OPINIASTER; OPINIATRE O`pin*ias"ter, O`pin*ia"tre, a. Etym: [OF. opiniastre, F. opiniâtre. See Opinion.]  Opinionated. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

OPINIASTROUS:  See Opiniaster. [Obs.]. 

OPINIATE:  To hold or maintain persistently. [Obs.] Barrow. 

OPINIATED:  Opinionated. [Obs.] 

OPINIATIVE:  Opinionative. Glanvill.  -- O*pin"ia*tive*ly, adv.  -- O*pin"ia*tive*ness, n.  OPINIATOR; OPINIATRE O`pin*ia"tor, O`pin*ia"tre, n.  One who is opinionated. [Obs.] South. Barrow. 

OPINIATRE:  See Opiniaster. [Obs.] Locke. 

OPINIATRETY:  Obstinacy in opinious. [Written also opiniatry.] [Obs.] 

OPINICUS:  An imaginary animal borne as a charge, having wings, an eagle's head, and a short tail; -- sometimes represented without wings. 

OPINING:  Opinion. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

OPINION:  The formal decision, or expression of views, of a judge, an umpire, a counselor, or other party officially called upon to consider and decide upon a matter or point submitted. To be of opinion, to think; to judge.  -- To hold opinion with, to agree with. [Obs.] Shak.  Syn.  -- Sentiment; notion; persuasion; idea; view; estimation. See Sentiment. 

OPINION:  To opine. [Obs.] 

OPINIONABLE:  Being, or capable of being, a matter of opinion; that can be thought; not positively settled; as, an opinionable doctrine. C. J. Ellicott. 

OPINIONATE:  Opinionated. 

OPINIONATED:  Stiff in opinion; firmly or unduly adhering to one's own opinion or to preconceived notions; obstinate in opinion. Sir W. Scott. 

OPINIONATELY:  Conceitedly. Feltham. 

OPINIONATIST:  An opinionist. [Obs.] 

OPINIONATOR:  An opinionated person; one given to conjecture. [Obs.] South. 

OPINIONED:  Opinionated; conceited. His opinioned zeal which he thought judicious. Milton. 

OPINIONIST:  One fond of his own notions, or unduly attached to his own opinions. Glanvill. 

OPIPAROUS:  Sumptuous. [Obs.] -- O*pip"a*rous*ly, adv. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse. 

OPISOMETER:  An instrument with a revolving wheel for measuring a curved line, as on a map. 

OPISTHION:  The middle of the posterior, or dorsal, margin of the great foramen of the skull.  OPISTHOBRANCHIA; OPISTHOBRANCHIATA O*pis`tho*bran"chi*a, O*pis`tho*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)  A division of gastropod Mollusca, in which the breathing organs are usually situated behind the heart. It includes the tectibranchs and nudibranchs. 

OPISTHOBRANCHIATE:  Of or pertaining to the Opisthobranchiata.  -- n.  One of the Opisthobranchiata.  OPISTHOCOELIAN; OPISTHOCOELOUS O*pis`tho*coe"li*an, O*pis`tho*coe"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)  Concave behind; -- applied especially to vertebræ in which the anterior end of the centrum is convex and the posterior concave. 

OPISTHODOME:  A back chamber; especially, that part of the naos, or cella, farthest from the main entrance, sometimes having an entrance of its own, and often used as a treasury. 

OPISTHOGLYPHA:  A division of serpents which have some of the posterior maxillary teeth grooved for fangs. 

OPISTHOGRAPHY:  A writing upon the back of anything, as upon the back of a leaf or sheet already written upon on one side. [R.] Scudamore. 

OPISTHOMI:  An order of eellike fishes having the scapular arch attached to the vertebræ, but not connected with the skull. 

OPISTHOPULMONATE:  Having the pulmonary sac situated posteriorly; -- said of certain air-breathing Mollusca. 

OPISTHOTIC:  The inferior and posterior of the three elements forming the periotic bone. 

OPISTHOTONOS:  A tetanic spasm in which the body is bent backwards and stiffened. 

OPITULATION:  The act of helping or aiding; help. [Obs.] Bailey. 

OPIUM:  The inspissated juice of the Papaver somniferum, or white poppy.  Note: Opium is obtained from incisions made in the capsules of the plant, and the best flows from the first incision. It is imported into Europe and America chiefly from the Levant, and large quantities are sent to China from India, Persia, and other countries. It is of a brownish yellow color, has a faint smell, and bitter and acrid taste. It is a stimulant narcotic poison, which may produce hallicinations, profound sleep, or death. It is much used in medicine to soothe pain and inflammation, and is smoked as an intoxicant with baneful effects. Opium joint, a low resort of opium smokers. [Slang]  OPLE TREE O"ple tree`. Etym: [L. opulus a kind of maple tree.]  The witch-hazel. [Obs.] Ainsworth.  OPOBALSAM; OPOBALSAMUM Op`o*bal"sam, Op`o*bal"sa*mum, n. Etym: [L. opobalsamum, Gr. (Med.)  The old name of the aromatic resinous juice of the Balsamodendron opobalsamum, now commonly called balm of Gilead. See under Balm. 

OPOLCHENIE:  See Army organization, above. 

OPOPANAX:  The inspissated juice of an umbelliferous plant (the Opoponax Chironum), brought from Turkey and the East Indies in loose granules, or sometimes in larger masses, of a reddish yellow color, with specks of white. It has a strong smell and acrid taste, and was formerly used in medicine as an emmenagogue and antispasmodic. Dunglison. 

OPOSSUM:  Any American marsupial of the genera Didelphys and Chironectes. The common species of the United States is Didelphys Virginiana.  Note: Several related species are found in South America. The water opossum of Brazil (Chironectes variegatus), which has the hind feet, webbed, is provided with a marsupial pouch and with cheek pouches. It is called also yapock. Opossum mouse. (Zoöl.) See Flying mouse, under Flying.  -- Opossum shrimp (Zoöl.), any schizopod crustacean of the genus Mysis and allied genera. See Schizopoda. 

OPPIDAN:  Of or pertaining to a town. Howell. 

OPPIGNERATE:  To pledge; to pawn. [Obs.] Bacon. 

OPPILATE:  To crowd together; to fill with obstructions; to block up. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

OPPILATION:  The act of filling or crowding together; a stopping by redundant matter; obstruction, particularly in the lower intestines. Jer. Taylor. 

OPPILATIVE:  Obstructive. [Obs.] Sherwood.  OPPLETE; OPPLETED Op*plete", Op*plet"ed, a. Etym: [L. oppletus, p.p. of opplere to fill up; ob (see Ob-) + plere to fill.]  Filled; crowded. [Obs.] Johnson. 

OPPLETION:  The act of filling up, or the state of being filled up; fullness. [Obs.] 

OPPONE:  To oppose. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

OPPONENCY:  The act of opening an academical disputation; the proposition of objections to a tenet, as an exercise for a degree. [Eng.] Todd. 

OPPONENT:  Situated in front; opposite; hence, opposing; adverse; antagonistic. Pope. 

OPPORTUNE:  Convenient; ready; hence, seasonable; timely. Milton. This is most opportune to our need. Shak. -- Op`por*tune"ly, adv.  -- Op`por*tune"ness, n. 

OPPORTUNE:  To suit. [Obs.] Dr. Clerke(1637). 

OPPORTUNISM:  The art or practice of taking advantage of opportunities or circumstances, or of seeking immediate advantage with little regard for ultimate consequences. [Recent] 

OPPORTUNIST:  One who advocates or practices opportunism. [Recent] 

OPPOSABILITY:  The condition or quality of being opposable. In no savage have I ever seen the slightest approach to opposability of the great toe, which is the essential distinguishing feature of apes. A. R. Wallace. 

OPPOSAL:  Opposition. [R.] Sir T. Herbert. 

OPPOSELESS:  Not to be effectually opposed; irresistible. [Obs.] "Your great opposeless wills." Shak. 

OPPOSER:  One who opposes; an opponent; an antagonist; an adversary. 

OPPOSITELY:  In a situation to face each other; in an opposite manner or direction; adversely. Winds from all quarters oppositely blow. May. 

OPPOSITENESS:  The quality or state of being opposite. 

OPPOSITIFOLIOUS:  Placed at the same node with a leaf, but separated from it by the whole diameter of the stem; as, an oppositifolious peduncle. 

OPPOSITION:  The situation of a heavenly body with respect to another when in the part of the heavens directly opposite to it; especially, the position of a planet or satellite when its longitude differs from that of the sun 180º; -- signified by the symbol as, .  6. (Logic)  The relation between two propositions when, having the same subject and predicate, they differ in quantity, or in quality, or in both; or between two propositions which have the same matter but a different form. 

OPPOSITIONIST:  One who belongs to the opposition party. Praed. 

OPPOSITIPETALOUS:  Placed in front of a petal. 

OPPOSITISEPALOUS:  Placed in front of a sepal. 

OPPOSITIVE:  Capable of being put in opposition. Bp. Hall. 

OPPRESSOR:  One who oppresses; one who imposes unjust burdens on others; one who harasses others with unjust laws or unreasonable severity. The orphan pines while the oppressor feeds. Shak. To relieve the oppressed and to punish the oppressor. Swift. 

OPPRESSURE:  Oppression. [Obs.] 

OPPROBRIUM:  Disgrace; infamy; reproach mingled with contempt; abusive language. Being both dramatic author and dramatic performer, he found himself heir to a twofold opprobrium. De Quincey. 

OPPROBRY:  Opprobrium. [Obs.] Johnson. 

OPPUGN:  To fight against; to attack; to be in conflict with; to oppose; to resist. They said the manner of their impeachment they could not but conceive did oppugn the rights of Parliament. Clarendon. 

OPPUGNANCY:  The act of oppugning; opposition; resistance. Shak. 

OPPUGNANT:  Tending to awaken hostility; hostile; opposing; warring. "Oppugnant forces." I. Taylor.  -- n.  An opponent. [R.] Coleridge. 

OPPUGNATION:  Opposition. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

OPPUGNER:  One who opposes or attacks; that which opposes. Selden. 

OPSIMATHY:  Education late in life. [R.] Hales. 

OPSIOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the limits of distincts vision in different individuals, and thus determiming the proper focal length of a lens for correcting imperfect sight. Brande & C. 

OPSONATION:  A catering; a buying of provisions. [Obs.] Bailey. 

OPTABLE:  That may be chosen; desirable. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

OPTATE:  To choose; to wish for; to desire. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

OPTATION:  The act of optating; a wish. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

OPTATIVE:  Expressing desire or wish. Fuller. Optative mood (Gram.), that mood or form of a verb, as in Greek, Sanskrit, etc., in which a wish or desire is expressed. 

OPTATIVE:  The optative mood; also, a verb in the optative mood. 

OPTATIVELY:  In an optative manner; with the expression of desire. [R.] God blesseth man imperatively, and man blesseth God optatively. Bp. Hall. 

OPTICALLY:  By optics or sight; with reference to optics. Optically active, Optically inactive (Chem. Physics), terms used of certain metameric substances which, while identical with each other in other respects, differ in this, viz., that they do or do not produce right-handed or left-handed circular polarization of light.  -- Optically positive, Optically negative. See under Refraction. 

OPTICS:  That branch of physical science which treats of the nature and properties of light, the laws of its modification by opaque and transparent bodies, and the phenomena of vision. 

OPTIGRAPH:  A telescope with a diagonal eyepiece, suspended vertically in gimbals by the object end beneath a fixed diagonal plane mirror. It is used for delineating landscapes, by means of a pencil at the eye end which leaves the delineation on paper. 

OPTIMATE:  Of or pertaining to the nobility or aristocracy. [R.] -- n.  A nobleman or aristocrat; a chief man in a state or city. [R.] Chapman. 

OPTIMATES:  The nobility or aristocracy of ancient Rome, as opposed to the populares. 

OPTIME:  One of those who stand in the second rank of honors, immediately after the wranglers, in the University of Cambridge, England. They are divided into senior and junior optimes. 

OPTIMISM:  The opinion or doctrine that everything in nature, being the work of God, is ordered for the best, or that the ordering of things in the universe is such as to produce the highest good.  2. A disposition to take the most hopeful view; -- opposed to pessimism. 

OPTIMIST:  One who holds the opinion that all events are ordered for the best.  2. One who looks on the bright side of things, or takes hopeful views; -- opposed to pessimist. 

OPTIMISTIC:  Of or pertaining to optimism; tending, or conforming, to the opinion that all events are ordered for the best.  2. Hopeful; sanguine; as, an optimistic view. 

OPTIMITY:  The state of being best. [R.] Bailey. 

OPTION:  A right formerly belonging to an archbishop to select any one dignity or benefice in the gift of a suffragan bishop consecrated or confirmed by him, for bestowal by himself when next vacant; -- annulled by Parliament in 1845.  5. (Stock Exchange)  A stipulated privilege, given to a party in a time contract, of demanding its fulfillment on any day within a specified limit. Buyer's option, an option allowed to one who contracts to buy stocks at a certain future date and at a certain price, to demand the delivery of the stock (giving one day's notice) at any previous time at the market price.  -- Seller's option, an option allowed to one who contracts to deliver stock art a certain price on a certain future date, to deliver it (giving one day's notice) at any previous time at the market price. Such options are privileges for which a consideration is paid.  -- Local option. See under Local.  Syn.  -- Choice; preference; selection.  -- Option, Choice. Choice is an act of choosing; option often means liberty to choose, and implies freedom from constraint in the act of choosing. 

OPTIONAL:  Involving an option; depending on the exercise of an option; left to one's discretion or choice; not compulsory; as, optional studies; it is optional with you to go or stay.  -- n.  See Elective, n. If to the former the movement was not optional, it was the same that the latter chose when it was optional. Palfrey. Original writs are either optional or peremptory. Blackstone. 

OPTIONALLY:  In an optional manner.  OPTOCOELE; OPTOCOELIA Op"to*coele, Op`to*coe"li*a, n. Etym: [NL. optocoelia, fr. Gr. (Anat.)  The cavity of one of the optic lobes of the brain in many animals. B. G. Wilder. 

OPTOGRAM:  An image of external objects fixed on the retina by the photochemical action of light on the visual purple. See Optography. 

OPTOGRAPHY:  The production of an optogram on the retina by the photochemical action of light on the visual purple; the fixation of an image in the eye. The object so photographed shows white on a purple or red background. See Visual purple, under Visual. 

OPTOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the distance of distinct vision, mainly for the selection of eveglasses. 

OPTOMETRIST:  One who is skilled in or practices optometry. 

OPULENCE:  Wealth; riches; affluence. Swift 

OPULENCY:  See Opulence. Shak. 

OPULENT:  Having a large estate or property; wealthy; rich; affluent; as, an opulent city; an opulent citizen.  -- Op"u*lent*ly, adv. I will piece Her opulent throne with kingdoms. Shak. 

OPUNTIA:  A genus of cactaceous plants; the prickly pear, or Indian fig. 

OPUS:  A work; specif. (Mus.), a musical composition.  Note: Each composition, or set of pieces, as the composer may choose, is called an opus, and they are numbered in the order of their issue. (Often abbrev. to op.)  Opus incertum. Etym: [L.] (Arch.) See under Incertum.  OPUSCLE; OPUSCULE O*pus"cle, O*pus"cule, n. Etym: [L. opusculum, dim. of opus work: cf. F. opuscule.]  A small or petty work. 

OPUSCULUM:  An opuscule. Smart. 

OPYE:  Opium. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OQUASSA:  A small, handsome trout (Salvelinus oquassa), found in some of the lakes in Maine; -- called also blueback trout.  -OR -or. Etym: [L. -or: cf. OF. -or, -ur, -our, F. -eur.]  1. A noun suffix denoting an act; a state or quality; as in error, fervor, pallor, candor, etc.  2. A noun suffix denoting an agent or doer; as in auditor, one who hears; donor, one who gives; obligor, elevator. It is correlative to -ee. In general -or is appended to words of Latin, and -er to those of English, origin. See -er. 

OR:  A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both. It corresponds to either. You may ride either to London or to Windsor. It often connects a series of words or propositions, presenting a choice of either; as, he may study law, or medicine, or divinity, or he may enter into trade. If man's convenience, health, Or safety interfere, his rights and claims Are paramount. Cowper.  Note: Or may be used to join as alternatives terms expressing unlike things or ideas (as, is the orange sour or sweet), or different terms expressing the same thing or idea; as, this is a sphere, or globe.  Note: Or sometimes begins a sentence. In this case it expresses an alternative or subjoins a clause differing from the foregoing. "Or what man is there of you, who, if his son shall ask him for a loaf, will give him a stone" Matt. vii. 9 (Rev. Ver. ). Or for either is archaic or poetic. Maugre thine heed, thou must for indigence Or steal, or beg, or borrow thy dispence. Chaucer. 

OR:  Ere; before; sooner than. [Obs.] But natheless, while I have time and space, Or that I forther in this tale pace. Chaucer. Or ever, Or ere. See under Ever, and Ere. 

OR:  Yellow or gold color, -- represented in drawing or engraving by small dots. 

ORA:  A money of account among the Anglo-Saxons, valued, in the Domesday Book, at twenty pence sterling. 

ORABASSU:  A South American monkey of the genus Callithrix, esp. C. Moloch.  ORACH; ORACHE Or"ach, Or"ache, n. Etym: [F. arroche, corrupted fr. L. atriplex, Gr. Arrach.] (Bot.)  A genus (Atriplex) of herbs or low shrubs of the Goosefoot family, most of them with a mealy surface. Garden orache, a plant (Atriplex hortensis), often used as a pot herb; -- also called mountain spinach. 

ORACLE:  The sanctuary, or Most Holy place in the temple; also, the temple itself. 1 Kings vi. 19. Siloa's brook, that flow'd Fast by the oracle of God. Milton.  5. One who communicates a divine command; an angel; a prophet. God hath now sent his living oracle Into the world to teach his final will. Milton.  6. Any person reputed uncommonly wise; one whose decisions are regarded as of great authority; as, a literary oracle. "Oracles of mode." Tennyson. The country rectors . . . thought him an oracle on points of learning. Macaulay.  7. A wise sentence or decision of great authority. 

ORACLE:  To utter oracles. [Obs.] 

ORACULOUS:  Oracular; of the nature of an oracle. [R.] "Equivocations, or oraculous speeches." Bacon. "The oraculous seer." Pope.  -- O*rac"u*lous*ly, adv.  -- O*rac"u*lous*ness, n. 

ORAGIOUS:  Stormy. [R.] 

ORAISON:  See Orison. [Obs.] Shak. 

ORANG:  See Orang-outang. 

ORANGE:  The tree that bears oranges; the orange tree.  3. The color of an orange; reddish yellow. Mandarin orange. See Mandarin.  -- Mock orange (Bot.), any species of shrubs of the genus Philadelphus, which have whitish and often fragrant blossoms.  -- Native orange, or Orange thorn (Bot.), an Australian shrub (Citriobatus parviflorus); also, its edible yellow berries.  -- Orange bird (Zoöl.), a tanager of Jamaica (Tanagra zena); -- so called from its bright orange breast.  -- Orange cowry (Zoöl.), a large, handsome cowry (Cypræa aurantia), highly valued by collectors of shells on account of its rarity.  -- Orange grass (Bot.), an inconspicuous annual American plant (Hypericum Sarothra), having minute, deep yellow flowers.  -- Orange oil (Chem.), an oily, terpenelike substance obtained from orange rind, and distinct from neroli oil, which is obtained from the flowers.  -- Orange pekoe, a kind of black tea.  -- Orange pippin, an orange-colored apple with acid flavor.  -- Quito orange, the orangelike fruit of a shrubby species of nightshade (Solanum Quitoense), native in Quito.  -- Orange scale (Zoöl.) any species of scale insects which infests orange trees; especially, the purple scale (Mytilaspis citricola), the long scale (M. Gloveri), and the red scale (Aspidiotus Aurantii). 

ORANGE:  Of or pertaining to an orange; of the color of an orange; reddish yellow; as, an orange ribbon. 

ORANGEADE:  A drink made of orange juice and water, corresponding to lemonade; orange sherbet. 

ORANGEAT:  Candied orange peel; also, orangeade. 

ORANGEISM:  Attachment to the principles of the society of Orangemen; the tenets or practices of the Orangemen. 

ORANGEMAN:  One of a secret society, organized in the north of Ireland in 1795, the professed objects of which are the defense of the regning sovereign of Great Britain, the support of the Protestant religion, the maintenance of the laws of the kingdom, etc.; -- so called in honor of William, Prince of Orange, who became William III. of England. 

ORANGEROOT:  An American ranunculaceous plant (Hidrastis Canadensis), having a yellow tuberous root; -- also called yellowroot, golden seal, etc. 

ORANGERY:  A place for raising oranges; a plantation of orange trees. 

ORANGETAWNY:  Deep orange-yellow; dark yellow. Shak. 

ORANGITE:  An orange-yellow variety of the mineral thorite, found in Norway.  ORANG-OUTANG O*rang"-ou*tang`, n. Etym: [Malayan , i. e., man of the woods; man + a forest, wood, wild, savage.] (Zoöl.)  An arboreal anthropoid ape (Simia satyrus), which inhabits Borneo and Sumatra. Often called simply orang. [Written also orang- outan, orang-utan, ourang-utang, and oran-utan.]  Note: It is over four feet high, when full grown, and has very long arms, which reach nearly or quite to the ground when the body is erect. Its color is reddish brown. In structure, it closely resembles man in many respects. 

ORARIAN:  Of or pertaining to a coast. 

ORATION:  An elaborate discourse, delivered in public, treating an important subject in a formal and dignified manner; especially, a discourse having reference to some special occasion, as a funeral, an anniversary, a celebration, or the like; -- distinguished from an argument in court, a popular harangue, a sermon, a lecture, etc.; as, Webster's oration at Bunker Hill. The lord archbishop . . . made a long oration. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Address; speech. See Harangue. 

ORATION:  To deliver an oration. Donne. 

ORATOR:  An officer who is the voice of the university upon all public occasions, who writes, reads, and records all letters of a public nature, presents, with an appropriate address, those persons on whom honorary degrees are to be conferred, and performs other like duties; -- called also public orator. 

ORATORIAL:  Oratorical. [R.] Swift. --Or`a*to"ri*al*ly, adv. 

ORATORIAN:  Oratorical. [Obs.] R. North. 

ORATORIAN:  See Fathers of the Oratory, under Oratory. 

ORATORICAL:  Of or pertaining to an orator or to oratory; characterized by oratory; rhetorical; becoming to an orator; as, an oratorical triumph; an oratorical essay.  -- Or`a*tor"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ORATORIO:  A more or less dramatic text or poem, founded on some Scripture nerrative, or great divine event, elaborately set to music, in recitative, arias, grand choruses, etc., to be sung with an orchestral accompaniment, but without action, scenery, or costume, although the oratorio grew out of the Mysteries and the Miracle and Passion plays, which were acted.  Note: There are instances of secular and mythological subjects treated in the form of the oratorios, and called oratorios by their composers; as Haydn's "Seasons," Handel's "Semele," etc.  2. Performance or rendering of such a composition. 

ORATORIOUS:  Oratorical. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  -- Or`a*to"ri*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

ORATORIZE:  To play the orator. [Jocose or derisive] Dickens. 

ORATORY:  A place of orisons, or prayer; especially, a chapel or small room set apart for private devotions. An oratory [temple] . . . in worship of Dian. Chaucer. Do not omit thy prayers for want of a good oratory, or place to pray in. Jer. Taylor. Fathers of the Oratory (R. C. Ch.), a society of priests founded by St. Philip Neri, living in community, and not bound by a special vow. The members are called also oratorians. 

ORATORY:  The art of an orator; the art of public speaking in an eloquent or effective manner; the exercise of rhetorical skill in oral discourse; eloquence. "The oratory of Greece and Rome." Milton. When a world of men Could not prevail with all their oratory. Shak. 

ORATRESS:  A woman who makes public addresses. Warner. 

ORATRIX:  A woman plaintiff, or complainant, in equity pleading. Burrill. 

ORB:  A blank window or panel. [Obs.] Oxf. Gloss. 

ORB:  A body of soldiers drawn up in a circle, as for defense, esp. infantry to repel cavalry.  Syn.  -- Globe; ball; sphere. See Globe. 

ORB:  To become round like an orb. [Poetic] And orb into the perfect star. Tennyson. 

ORBATE:  Bereaved; fatherless; childless. [Obs.] 

ORBATION:  The state of being orbate, or deprived of parents or children; privation, in general; bereavement. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ORBED:  Having the form of an orb; round. The orbèd eyelids are let down. Trench.  ORBIC; ORBICAL Or"bic, Or"bic*al, a. Etym: [L. orbicus, or orbitus, fr. orbis orb.]  Spherical; orbicular; orblike; circular. [R.] Bacon. 

ORBICLE:  A small orb, or sphere. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 

ORBICULA:  Same as Discina. 

ORBICULAR:  Resembling or having the form of an orb; spherical; circular; orbiculate.  -- Or*bic"u*lar*ly, adv.  -- Or*bic"u*lar*ness, n. Orbicular as the disk of a planet. De Quincey. 

ORBICULATE:  That which is orbiculate; especially, a solid the vertical section of which is oval, and the horizontal section circular.  ORBICULATE; ORBICULATED Or*bic"u*late, Or*bic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. orbiculatus. See Orbicular.]  Made, or being, in the form of an orb; having a circular, or nearly circular, or a spheroidal, outline. Orbiculate leaf (Bot.), a leaf whose outline is nearly circular. 

ORBICULATION:  The state or quality of being orbiculate; orbicularness. Dr. H. More. 

ORBIT:  The path described by a heavenly body in its periodical revolution around another body; as, the orbit of Jupiter, of the earth, of the moon.  2. An orb or ball. [Rare & Improper] Roll the lucid orbit of an eye. Young.  3. (Anat.)  The cavity or socket of the skull in which the eye and its appendages are situated.  4. (Zoöl.)  The skin which surrounds the eye of a bird. 

ORBITAL:  Of or pertaining to an orbit. "Orbital revolution." J. D. Forbes. Orbital index (Anat.), in the skull, the ratio of the vertical height to the transverse width of the orbit, which is taken as the standard, equal to 100. 

ORBITAR:  Orbital. [R.] Dunglison. 

ORBITARY:  Situated around the orbit; as, the orbitary feathers of a bird. 

ORBITELAE:  A division of spiders, including those that make geometrical webs, as the garden spider, or Epeira. 

ORBITOLITES:  A genus of living Foraminifera, forming broad, thin, circular disks, containing numerous small chambers. 

ORBITONASAL:  Of or pertaining to the orbit and the nose; as, the orbitonasal, or ophthalmic, nerve. 

ORBITOSPHENOID:  Of or pertaining to the sphenoid bone and the orbit, or to the orbitosphenoid bone.  -- n.  The orbitosphenoid bone, which is situated in the orbit on either side of the presphenoid. It generally forms a part of the sphenoid in the adult. 

ORBITOSPHENOIDAL:  Of or pertaining to the orbitosphenoid bone; orbitosphenoid. 

ORBITUARY:  Orbital. [R.]  ORBITUDE; ORBITY Or"bi*tude, Or"bi*ty, n. Etym: [L. orbitudo, orbitas, fr. orbus: cf. F. orbité. See Orbate.]  Orbation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ORBULINA:  A genus of minute living Foraminifera having a globular shell. 

ORBY:  Orblike; having the course of an orb; revolving. [Obs.] "Orby hours." Chapman. 

ORC:  The grampus. [Written also ork and orch.] Milton. 

ORCADIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Orkney Islands. 

ORCEIN:  A reddish brown amorphous dyestuff, 

ORCHAL:  See Archil. 

ORCHANET:  Same as Alkanet, 2. Ainsworth. 

ORCHARDIST:  One who cultivates an orchard. 

ORCHEL:  Archil. 

ORCHESOGRAPHY:  A treatise upon dancing. [R.] 

ORCHESTER:  See Orchestra. 

ORCHESTIAN:  Any species of amphipod crustacean of the genus Orchestia, or family Orchestidæ. See Beach flea, under Beach. 

ORCHESTRA:  The instruments employed by a full band, collectively; as, an orchestra of forty stringed instruments, with proper complement of wind instruments. 

ORCHESTRAL:  Of or pertaining to an orchestra; suitable for, or performed in or by, an orchestra. 

ORCHESTRATION:  The arrangement of music for an orchestra; orchestral treatment of a composition; -- called also instrumentation. 

ORCHESTRE:  See Orchestra. 

ORCHESTRIC:  Orchestral. 

ORCHESTRION:  A large music box imitating a variety of orchestral instruments. 

ORCHID:  Any plant of the order Orchidaceæ. See Orchidaceous. 

ORCHIDACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order (Orchidaceæ) of endogenous plants of which the genus Orchis is the type. They are mostly perennial herbs having the stamens and pistils united in a single column, and normally three petals and three sepals, all adherent to the ovary. The flowers are curiously shaped, often resembling insects, the odd or lower petal (called the lip) being unlike the others, and sometimes of a strange and unexpected appearance. About one hundred species occur in the United States, but several thousand in the tropics.  Note: Over three hundred genera are recognized. 

ORCHIDEAN:  Orchidaceous. 

ORCHIDEOUS:  Same as Orchidaceous. 

ORCHIDOLOGIST:  One versed in orchidology. 

ORCHIDOLOGY:  The branch of botany which treats of orchids. 

ORCHIL:  See Archil.  ORCHILLA WEED Or*chil"la weed`. (Bot.)  The lichen from which archil is obtained. See Archil. 

ORCHIS:  A genus of endogenous plants growing in the North Temperate zone, and consisting of about eighty species. They are perennial herbs growing from a tuber (beside which is usually found the last year's tuber also), and are valued for their showy flowers. See Orchidaceous.  2. (Bot.)  Any plant of the same family with the orchis; an orchid.  Note: The common names, such as bee orchis, fly orchis, butterfly orchis, etc., allude to the peculiar form of the flower. 

ORCHITIS:  Inflammation of the testicles. 

ORCHOTOMY:  The operation of cutting out or removing a testicle by the knife; castration. 

ORCIN:  A colorless crystalline substance, C6H3.CH3.(OH)2, which is obtained from certain lichens (Roccella, Lecanora, etc.), also from extract of aloes, and artificially from certain derivatives of toluene. It changes readily into orcein. 

ORD:  An edge or point; also, a beginning. [ Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Ord and end, the beginning and end. Cf. Odds and ends, under Odds. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Halliwell. 

ORDAIN:  To invest with ministerial or sacerdotal functions; to introduce into the office of the Christian ministry, by the laying on of hands, or other forms; to set apart by the ceremony of ordination. Meletius was ordained by Arian bishops. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

ORDAINABLE:  Capable of being ordained; worthy to be ordained or appointed. Bp. Hall. 

ORDAINER:  One who ordains. 

ORDAINMENT:  Ordination. [R.] Burke. 

ORDAL:  Ordeal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ORDALIAN:  Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

ORDEAL:  Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal. 

ORDER:  The disposition of a column and its component parts, and of the entablature resting upon it, in classical architecture; hence (as the column and entablature are the characteristic features of classical architecture) a style or manner of architectural designing.  Note: The Greeks used three different orders, easy to distinguish, Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian. The Romans added the Tuscan, and changed the Doric so that it is hardly recognizable, and also used a modified Corinthian called Composite. The Renaissance writers on architecture recognized five orders as orthodox or classical, -- Doric (the Roman sort), Ionic, Tuscan, Corinthian, and Composite. See Illust. of Capital.  12. (Nat. Hist.)  An assemblage of genera having certain important characters in common; as, the Carnivora and Insectivora are orders of Mammalia.  Note: The Linnæan artificial orders of plants rested mainly on identity in the numer of pistils, or agreement in some one character. Natural orders are groups of genera agreeing in the fundamental plan of their flowers and fruit. A natural order is usually (in botany) equivalent to a family, and may include several tribes.  13. (Rhet.)  The placing of words and members in a sentence in such a manner as to contribute to force and beauty or clearness of expression.  14. (Math.)  Rank; degree; thus, the order of a curve or surface is the same as the degree of its equation. Artificial order or system. See Artificial classification, under Artificial, and Note to def. 12 above.  -- Close order (Mil.), the arrangement of the ranks with a distance of about half a pace between them; with a distance of about three yards the ranks are in Ant: open order.  -- The four Orders, The Orders four, the four orders of mendicant friars. See Friar. Chaucer.  -- General orders (Mil.), orders issued which concern the whole command, or the troops generally, in distinction from special orders.  -- Holy orders. (a) (Eccl.) The different grades of the Christian ministry; ordination to the ministry. See def. 10 above. (b) (R. C. Ch.) A sacrament for the purpose of conferring a special grace on those ordained.  -- In order to, for the purpose of; to the end; as means to. The best knowledge is that which is of greatest use in order to our eternal happiness. Tillotson. -- Minor orders (R. C. Ch.), orders beneath the diaconate in sacramental dignity, as acolyte, exorcist, reader, doorkeeper.  -- Money order. See under Money.  -- Natural order. (Bot.) See def. 12, Note.  -- Order book. (a) A merchant's book in which orders are entered. (b) (Mil.) A book kept at headquarters, in which all orders are recorded for the information of officers and men. (c) A book in the House of Commons in which proposed orders must be entered. [Eng.] -- Order in Council, a royal order issed with and by the advice of the Privy Council. [Great Britain] -- Order of battle (Mil.), the particular disposition given to the troops of an army on the field of battle.  -- Order of the day, in legislative bodies, the special business appointed for a specified day.  -- Order of a differential equation (Math.), the greatest index of differentiation in the equation.  -- Sailing orders (Naut.), the final instructions given to the commander of a ship of war before a cruise.  -- Sealed orders, orders sealed, and not to be opended until a certain time, or arrival at a certain place, as after a ship is at sea.  -- Standing order. (a) A continuing regulation for the conduct of parliamentary business. (b) (Mil.) An order not subject to change by an officer temporarily in command.  -- To give order, to give command or directions. Shak.  -- To take order for, to take charge of; to make arrangements concerning. Whiles I take order for mine own affairs. Shak.  Syn.  -- Arrangement; management. See Direction. 

ORDER:  To admit to holy orders; to ordain; to receive into the ranks of the ministry. These ordered folk be especially titled to God. Chaucer. Persons presented to be ordered deacons. Bk. of Com. Prayer. Order arms (Mil.), the command at which a rifle is brought to a position with its but resting on the ground; also, the position taken at such a command. 

ORDER:  To give orders; to issue commands. 

ORDERABLE:  Capable of being ordered; tractable. [R.] Being very orderable in all his sickness. Fuller. 

ORDERING:  Disposition; distribution; management. South. 

ORDERLESS:  Being without order or regularity; disorderly; out of rule. 

ORDERLINESS:  The state or quality of being orderly. 

ORDERLY:  According to due order; regularly; methodically; duly. You are blunt; go to it orderly. Shak. 

ORDERLY:  A noncommissioned officer or soldier who attends a superior officer to carry his orders, or to render other service. Orderlies were appointed to watch the palace. Macaulay.  2. A street sweeper. [Eng.] Mayhew. 

ORDINABILITY:  Capability of being ordained or appointed. [Obs.] Bp. Bull. 

ORDINABLE:  Capable of being ordained or appointed. [Obs.] 

ORDINAL:  The book of forms for making, ordaining, and consecrating bishops, priests, and deacons.  3. (R. C. Ch.)  A book containing the rubrics of the Mass. [Written also ordinale.] 

ORDINALISM:  The state or quality of being ordinal. [R.] Latham. 

ORDINANCE:  An established rite or ceremony.  4. Rank; order; station. [Obs.] Shak.  5. Etym: [See Ordnance.]  Ordnance; cannon. [Obs.] Shak. 

ORDINAND:  One about to be ordained. 

ORDINANT:  Ordaining; decreeing. [Obs.] Shak. 

ORDINANT:  One who ordains. F. G. Lee. 

ORDINARILY:  According to established rules or settled method; as a rule; commonly; usually; in most cases; as, a winter more than ordinarily severe. Those who ordinarily pride themselves not a little upon their penetration. I. Taylor. 

ORDINARY:  One who has immediate jurisdiction in matters ecclesiastical; an ecclesiastical judge; also, a deputy of the bishop, or a clergyman appointed to perform divine service for condemned criminals and assist in preparing them for death. (c) (Am. Law) A judicial officer, having generally the powers of a judge of probate or a surrogate.  2. The mass; the common run. [Obs.] I see no more in you than in the ordinary Of nature's salework. Shak.  3. That which is so common, or continued, as to be considered a settled establishment or institution. [R.] Spain had no other wars save those which were grown into an ordinary. Bacon.  4. Anything which is in ordinary or common use. Water buckets, wagons, cart wheels, plow socks, and other ordinaries. Sir W. Scott.  5. A dining room or eating house where a meal is prepared for all comers, at a fixed price for the meal, in distinction from one where each dish is separately charged; a table d'hôte; hence, also, the meal furnished at such a dining room. Shak. All the odd words they have picked up in a coffeehouse, or a gaming ordinary, are produced as flowers of style. Swift. He exacted a tribute for licenses to hawkers and peddlers and to ordinaries. Bancroft.  6. (Her.)  A charge or bearing of simple form, one of nine or ten which are in constant use. The bend, chevron, chief, cross, fesse, pale, and saltire are uniformly admitted as ordinaries. Some authorities include bar, bend sinister, pile, and others. See Subordinary. In ordinary. (a) In actual and constant service; statedly attending and serving; as, a physician or chaplain in ordinary. An ambassador in ordinary is one constantly resident at a foreign court. (b) (Naut.) Out of commission and laid up; -- said of a naval vessel.  -- Ordinary of the Mass (R. C. Ch.), the part of the Mass which is the same every day; -- called also the canon of the Mass. 

ORDINARYSHIP:  The state of being an ordinary. [R.] Fuller. 

ORDINATE:  Well-ordered; orderly; regular; methodical. "A life blissful and ordinate." Chaucer. Ordinate figure (Math.), a figure whose sides and angles are equal; a regular figure. 

ORDINATE:  The distance of any point in a curve or a straight line, measured on a line called the axis of ordinates or on a line parallel to it, from another line called the axis of abscissas, on which the corresponding abscissa of the point is measured.  Note: The ordinate and abscissa, taken together, are called coördinates, and define the position of the point with reference to the two axes named, the intersection of which is called the origin of coördinates. See Coordinate. 

ORDINATE:  To appoint, to regulate; to harmonize. Bp. Hall. 

ORDINATELY:  In an ordinate manner; orderly. Chaucer. Skelton. 

ORDINATION:  The act of setting apart to an office in the Christian ministry; the conferring of holy orders.  3. Disposition; arrangement; order. [R.] Angle of ordination (Geom.), the angle between the axes of coördinates. 

ORDINATIVE:  Tending to ordain; directing; giving order. [R.] Gauden. 

ORDINATOR:  One who ordains or establishes; a director. [R.] T. Adams. 

ORDNANCE:  Heavy weapons of warfare; cannon, or great guns, mortars, and howitzers; artillery; sometimes, a general term for all weapons and appliances used in war. All the battlements their ordnance fire. Shak. Then you may hear afar off the awful roar of his [Rufus Choate's] rifled ordnance. E. Ererett. Ordnance survey, the official survey of Great Britain and Ireland, conducted by the ordnance department. 

ORDONNANCE:  The disposition of the parts of any composition with regard to one another and the whole. Their dramatic ordonnance of the parts. Coleridge. 

ORDONNANT:  Of or pertaining to ordonnance. Dryden. 

ORDOVIAN:  Ordovician. 

ORDOVICIAN:  Of or pertaining to a division of the Silurian formation, corresponding in general to the Lower Silurian of most authors, exclusive of the Cambrian.  -- n.  The Ordovician formation. 

ORDUROUS:  Of or pertaining to ordure; filthy. Drayton. 

ORE:  Honor; grace; favor; mercy; clemency; happy augry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ORE:  A native metal or its compound with the rock in which it occurs, after it has been picked over to throw out what is worthless.  3. Metal; as, the liquid ore. [R.] Milton. Ore hearth, a low furnace in which rich lead ore is reduced; -- also called Scotch hearth. Raymond. 

OREAD:  One of the nymphs of mountains and grottoes. Like a wood nymph light, Oread or Dryad. Milton. 

OREADES:  A group of butterflies which includes the satyrs. See Satyr, 2. 

ORECTIC:  Of or pertaining to the desires; hence, impelling to gratification; appetitive.  OREGON GRAPE Or"e*gon grape`. (Bot.)  An evergreen species of barberry (Berberis Aquifolium), of Oregon and California; also, its roundish, blue-black berries. 

OREIDE:  See Oroide. 

OREODON:  A genus of extinct herbivorous mammals, abundant in the Tertiary formation of the Rocky Mountains. It is more or less related to the camel, hog, and deer. 

OREODONT:  Resembling, or allied to, the genus Oreodon. 

OREOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to oreography. 

OREOGRAPHY:  The science of mountains; orography. 

OREOSELIN:  A white crystalline substance which is obtained indirectly from the root of an umbelliferous plant (Imperatoria Oreoselinum), and yields resorcin on decomposition. 

OREOSOMA:  A genus of small oceanic fishes, remarkable for the large conical tubercles which cover the under surface. 

OREWEED:  Same as Oarweed. 

OREWOOD:  Same as Oarweed.  ORF; ORFE Orf, Or"fe, n. (Zoöl.)  A bright-colored domesticated variety of the id. See Id. 

ORFGILD:  Restitution for cattle; a penalty for taking away cattle. Cowell. 

ORFRAY:  The osprey. [Obs.] Holland. 

ORFRAYS:  See Orphrey. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

ORGAL:  See Argol. [Obs.] 

ORGAN:  A natural part or structure in an animal or a plant, capable of performing some special action (termed its function), which is essential to the life or well-being of the whole; as, the heart, lungs, etc., are organs of animals; the root, stem, foliage, etc., are organs of plants.  Note: In animals the organs are generally made up of several tissues, one of which usually predominates, and determines the principal function of the organ. Groups of organs constitute a system. See System.  3. A component part performing an essential office in the working of any complex machine; as, the cylinder, valves, crank, etc., are organs of the steam engine.  4. A medium of communication between one person or body and another; as, the secretary of state is the organ of communication between the government and a foreign power; a newspaper is the organ of its editor, or of a party, sect, etc.  5. Etym: [Cf. AS. organ, fr. L. organum.] (Mus.)  A wind instrument containing numerous pipes of various dimensions and kinds, which are filled with wind from a bellows, and played upon by means of keys similar to those of a piano, and sometimes by foot keys or pedals; -- formerly used in the plural, each pipe being considired an organ. The deep, majestic, solemn organs blow. Pope.  Note: Chaucer used the form orgon as a plural. The merry orgon . . . that in the church goon [go]. Barrel organ, Choir organ, Great organ, etc. See under Barrel, Choir, etc.  -- Cabinet organ (Mus.), an organ of small size, as for a chapel or for domestic use; a reed organ.  -- Organ bird (Zoöl.), a Tasmanian crow shrike (Gymnorhina organicum). It utters discordant notes like those of a hand organ out of tune.  -- Organ fish (Zoöl.), the drumfish.  -- Organ gun. (Mil.) Same as Orgue (b).  -- Organ harmonium (Mus.), an harmonium of large capacity and power.  -- Organ of Gorti (Anat.), a complicated structure in the cochlea of the ear, including the auditory hair cells, the rods or fibers of Corti, the membrane of Corti, etc. See Note under Ear.  -- Organ pipe. See Pipe, n., 1.  -- Organ-pipe coral. (Zoöl.) See Tubipora.  -- Organ point (Mus.), a passage in which the tonic or dominant is sustained continuously by one part, while the other parts move. 

ORGAN:  To supply with an organ or organs; to fit with organs; to organize. [Obs.] Thou art elemented and organed for other apprehensions. Bp. Mannyngham.  ORGANDIE; ORGANDY Or"gan*die, Or"gan*dy, n. Etym: [F. organdi.]  A kind of transparent light muslin. 

ORGANIC:  Of or pertaining to an organ or its functions, or to objects composed of organs; consisting of organs, or containing them; as, the organic structure of animals and plants; exhibiting characters peculiar to living organisms; as, organic bodies, organic life, organic remains. Cf. Inorganic.  2. Produced by the organs; as, organic pleasure. [R.]  3. Instrumental; acting as instruments of nature or of art to a certain destined function or end. [R.] Those organic arts which enable men to discourse and write perspicuously. Milton.  4. Forming a whole composed of organs. Hence: Of or pertaining to a system of organs; inherent in, or resulting from, a certain organization; as, an organic government; his love of truth was not inculcated, but organic.  5. Pertaining to, or denoting, any one of the large series of substances which, in nature or origin, are connected with vital processes, and include many substances of artificial production which may or may not occur in animals or plants; -- contrasted with Ant: inorganic.  Note: The principles of organic and inorganic chemistry are identical; but the enormous number and the completeness of related series of organic compounds, together with their remarkable facility of exchange and substitution, offer an illustration of chemical reaction and homology not to be paralleled in inorganic chemistry. Organic analysis (Chem.), the analysis of organic compounds, concerned chiefly with the determination of carbon as carbon dioxide, hydrogen as water, oxygen as the difference between the sum of the others and 100 per cent, and nitrogen as free nitrogen, ammonia, or nitric oxide; -- formerly called ultimate analysis, in distinction from proximate analysis.  -- Organic chemistry. See under Chemistry.  -- Organic compounds. (Chem.) See Carbon compounds, under Carbon.  -- Organic description of a curve (Geom.), the description of a curve on a plane by means of instruments. Brande & C.  -- Organic disease (Med.), a disease attended with morbid changes in the structure of the organs of the body or in the composition of its fluids; -- opposed to functional disease.  -- Organic electricity. See under Electricity.  -- Organic law or laws, a law or system of laws, or declaration of principles fundamental to the existence and organization of a political or other association; a constitution.  -- Organic stricture (Med.), a contraction of one of the natural passages of the body produced by structural changes in its walls, as distinguished from a spasmodic stricture, which is due to muscular contraction. 

ORGANICAL:  Organic. The organical structure of human bodies, whereby they live and move. Bentley. 

ORGANICALLY:  In an organic manner; by means of organs or with reference to organic functions; hence, fundamentally. Gladstone. 

ORGANICALNESS:  The quality or state of being organic. 

ORGANICISM:  The doctrine of the localization of disease, or which refers it always to a material lesion of an organ. Dunglison. 

ORGANIFIC:  Making an organic or organized structure; producing an organism; acting through, or resulting from, organs. Prof. Park. 

ORGANISM:  An organized being; a living body, either vegetable or animal, compozed of different organs or parts with functions which are separate, but mutually dependent, and essential to the life of the individual.  Note: Some of the lower forms of life are so simple in structure as to be without organs, but are still called organisms, since they have different parts analogous in functions to the organs of higher plants and animals. 

ORGANIST:  One who plays on the organ.  2. (R. C. Ch.)  One of the priests who organized or sung in parts. [Obs.] 

ORGANISTA:  Any one of several South American wrens, noted for the sweetness of their song. 

ORGANITY:  Organism. [R.] 

ORGANIZABILITY:  Quality of being organizable; capability of being organized. 

ORGANIZABLE:  Capable of being organized; esp. (Biol.), capable of being formed into living tissue; as, organizable matter. 

ORGANIZE:  To furnish with organs; to give an organic structure to; to endow with capacity for the functions of life; as, an organized being; organized matter; -- in this sense used chiefly in the past participle. These nobler faculties of the mind, matter organized could never produce. Ray.  2. To arrange or constitute in parts, each having a special function, act, office, or relation; to systematize; to get into working order; -- applied to products of the human intellect, or to human institutions and undertakings, as a science, a government, an army, a war, etc. This original and supreme will organizes the government. Cranch.  3. (Mus.)  To sing in parts; as, to organize an anthem. [R.] Busby. 

ORGANIZER:  One who organizes. 

ORGANLING:  A large kind of sea fish; the orgeis.  ORGANO- Or"ga*no-. Etym: [See Organ.]  A combining form denoting relation to, or connection with, an organ or organs. 

ORGANOGEN:  A name given to any one of the four elements, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, which are especially characteristic ingredients of organic compounds; also, by extension, to other elements sometimes found in the same connection; as sulphur, phosphorus, etc. 

ORGANOGENESIS:  The origin and development of organs in animals and plants.  2. (Biol.)  The germ history of the organs and systems of organs, -- a branch of morphogeny. Haeckel. 

ORGANOGENIC:  Of or pertaining to organogenesis. 

ORGANOGENY:  Organogenesis.  ORGANOGRAPHIC; ORGANOGRAPHICAL Or`ga*no*graph"ic, Or`ga*no*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. organographique.]  Of or pertaining to organography. 

ORGANOGRAPHIST:  One versed in organography. 

ORGANOGRAPHY:  A description of the organs of animals or plants. 

ORGANOLEPTIC:  Making an impression upon an organ; plastic; -- said of the effect or impression produced by any substance on the organs of touch, taste, or smell, and also on the organism as a whole. 

ORGANOLOGICAL:  Of or relating to organology. 

ORGANOMETALLIC:  Metalorganic.  ORGANON; ORGANUM Or"ga*non, Or"ga*num, n. Etym: [NL. organon, L. organum. See Organ.]  An organ or instrument; hence, a method by which philosophical or scientific investigation may be conducted; -- a term adopted from the Aristotelian writers by Lord Bacon, as the title ("Novum Organon") of part of his treatise on philosophical method. Sir. W. Hamilton. 

ORGANONYMY:  The designation or nomenclature of organs. B. G. Wilder. 

ORGANOPHYLY:  The tribal history of organs, -- a branch of morphophyly. Haeckel. 

ORGANOPLASTIC:  Having the property of producing the tissues or organs of animals and plants; as, the organoplastic cells. 

ORGANOSCOPY:  Phrenology. Fleming. 

ORGANOTROPHIC:  Relating to the creation, organization, and nutrition of living organs or parts. 

ORGANULE:  One of the essential cells or elements of an organ. See Sense organule, under Sense. Huxley. 

ORGANY:  See Origan. 

ORGANZINE:  A kind of double thrown silk of very fine texture, that is, silk twisted like a rope with different strands, so as to increase its strength. 

ORGASM:  Eager or immoderate excitement or action; the state of turgescence of any organ; erethism; esp., the height of venereal excitement in sexual intercourse. 

ORGEAT:  A sirup in which, formerly, a decoction of barley entered, but which is now prepared with an emulsion of almonds, -- used to flavor beverages or edibles. 

ORGEIS:  See Organling. 

ORGIASTIC:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, orgies. Elton. 

ORGILLOUS:  Proud; haughty. [Obs.] Shak. 

ORGULOUS:  See Orgillous. [Obs.] 

ORGY:  A frantic revel; drunken revelry. See Orgies 

ORGYIA:  A genus of bombycid moths whose caterpillars (esp. those of Orgyia leucostigma) are often very injurious to fruit trees and shade trees. The female is wingless. Called also vaporer moth. 

ORICALCHE:  See Orichalch. Costly oricalche from strange Phoenice. Spenser. 

ORICHALCEOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, orichalch; having a color or luster like that of brass. Maunder. 

ORICHALCH:  A metallic substance, resembling gold in color, but inferior in value; a mixed metal of the ancients, resembling brass; -- called also aurichalcum, orichalcum, etc. 

ORIEL:  A bay window. See Bay window. The beams that thro' the oriel shine Make prisms in every carven glass. Tennyson.  Note: There is no generally admitted difference between a bay window and an oriel. In the United States the latter name is often applied to bay windows which are small, and either polygonal or round; also, to such as are corbeled out from the wall instead of resting on the ground. 

ORIENCY:  Brightness or strength of color. [R.] E. Waterhouse. 

ORIENTAL:  Of or pertaining to the orient or east; eastern; concerned with the East or Orientalism; -- opposed to occidental; as, Oriental countries. The sun's ascendant and oriental radiations. Sir T. Browne. 

ORIENTAL:  Eastern Christians of the Greek rite. 

ORIENTALITY:  The quality or state of being oriental or eastern. Sir T. Browne. 

ORIENTALIZE:  to render Oriental; to cause to conform to Oriental manners or conditions. 

ORIENTATE:  To move or turn toward the east; to veer from the north or south toward the east. 

ORIENTNESS:  The quality or state of being orient or bright; splendor. [Obs.] Fuller. 

ORIFICE:  A mouth or aperture, as of a tube, pipe, etc.; an opening; as, the orifice of an artery or vein; the orifice of a wound. Shak. Etna was bored through the top with a monstrous orifice. Addison.  ORIFLAMB; ORIFLAMME Or"i*flamb, Or"i*flamme, n. Etym: [F. oriflamme, OF. oriflambe, LL. auriflamma; L. aurum gold + flamma flame; cf. L. flammula a little banner. So called because it was a flag of red silk, split into many points, and borne on a gilded lance.]  1. The ancient royal standard of France.  2. A standard or ensign, in battle. "A handkerchief like an oriflamb." Longfellow. And be your oriflamme to-day the helmet of Navarre. Macaulay.  ORIGAN; ORIGANUM Or"i*gan, O*rig"a*num, n. Etym: [L. origanum, Gr. Organy.] (Bot.)  A genus of aromatic labiate plants, including the sweet marjoram (O. Marjorana) and the wild marjoram (O. vulgare). Spenser. 

ORIGENISM:  The opinions of Origen of Alexandria, who lived in the 3d century, one of the most learned of the Greek Fathers. Prominent in his teaching was the doctrine that all created beings, including Satan, will ultimately be saved. 

ORIGENIST:  A follower of Origen of Alexandria. 

ORIGIN:  The point of attachment or end of a muscle which is fixed during contraction; -- in contradistinction to insertion. Origin of coördinate axes (Math.), the point where the axes intersect. See Note under Ordinate.  Syn.  -- Commencement; rise; source; spring; fountain; derivation; cause; root; foundation.  -- Origin, Source. Origin denotes the rise or commencement of a thing; source presents itself under the image of a fountain flowing forth in a continuous stream of influences. The origin of moral evil has been much disputed, but no one can doubt that it is the source of most of the calamities of our race. I think he would have set out just as he did, with the origin of ideas -- the proper starting point of a grammarian, who is to treat of their signs. Tooke. Famous Greece, That source of art and cultivated thought Which they to Rome, and Romans hither, brought. Waller. 

ORIGINABLE:  Capable of being originated. 

ORIGINAL:  The natural or wild species from which a domesticated or cultivated variety has been derived; as, the wolf is thought by some to be the original of the dog, the blackthorn the original of the plum. 

ORIGINALIST:  One who is original. [R.] 

ORIGINALITY:  The quality or state of being original. Macaulay. 

ORIGINALNESS:  The quality of being original; originality. [R.] Johnson. 

ORIGINANT:  Originating; original. [R.] An absolutely originant act of self will. Prof. Shedd. 

ORIGINATE:  To give an origin or beginning to; to cause to be; to bring into existence; to produce as new. A decomposition of the whole civill and political mass, for the purpose of originating a new civil order. Burke. 

ORIGINATE:  To take first existence; to have origin or beginning; to begin to exist or act; as, the scheme originated with the governor and council. 

ORIGINATIVE:  Having power, or tending, to originate, or bring into existence; originating. H. Bushnell.  -- O*rig"i*na*tive*ly, adv. 

ORIGINATOR:  One who originates. 

ORILLON:  A semicircular projection made at the shoulder of a bastion for the purpose of covering the retired flank, -- found in old fortresses. 

ORIOL:  See Oriel. 

ORION:  A large and bright constellation on the equator, between the stars Aldebaran and Sirius. It contains a remarkable nebula visible to the naked eye. The flaming glories of Orion's belt. E. Everett. 

ORISKANY:  Designating, or pertaining to, certain beds, chiefly limestone, characteristic of the latest period of the Silurian age. Oriskany period, a subdivision of the American Paleozoic system intermediate or translational in character between the Silurian and Devonian ages. See Chart of Geology. 

ORISMOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to orismology. 

ORISMOLOGY:  That departament of natural history which treats of technical terms. 

ORISON:  A prayer; a supplication. [Poetic] Chaucer. Shak. Lowly they bowed, adoring, and began Their orisons, each morning duly paid. Milton. 

ORISONT:  Horizon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ORK:  See Orc. 

ORKNEYAN:  Of or pertaining to the Orkney islands. "Orkneyan skerries." Longfellow. 

ORLE:  A bearing, in the form of a fillet, round the shield, within, but at some distance from, the border.  2. (Her.)  The wreath, or chaplet, surmounting or encircling the helmet of a knight and bearing the crest. In orle, round the escutcheon, leaving the middle of the field vacant, or occupied by something else; -- said of bearings arranged on the shield in the form of an orle. 

ORLO:  A wind instrument of music in use among the Spaniards. 

ORLOP:  The lowest deck of a vessel, esp. of a ship of war, consisting of a platform laid over the beams in the hold, on which the cables are coiled.  ORMAZD; AHURA-MAZDA Or"mazd or A`hu*ra-Maz"da, n. [Zend Ahuramazda.] (Zoroastrianism)  The supreme deity, the principle of good, creator of the world, and guardian of mankind. He is the opponent of Ahriman, the spirit of evil, both being sprung from Eternity, or, according to another version, Ahriman being the offspring of a moment of doubt on the part of Ormazd. Ormazd is attended by angels and archangels. He is represented as a bearded man inclosed in a winged circle, a conception probably derived from the Assyrian representations of Ashur. 

ORMER:  An abalone. 

ORMOLU:  A variety of brass made to resemble gold by the use of less zinc and more copper in its composition than ordinary brass contains. Its golden color is often heightened by means of lacquer of some sort, or by use of acids. Called also mosaic gold. Ormolu varnish, a varnish applied to metals, as brass, to give the appearance of gold. 

ORMUZD:  The good principle, or being, of the ancient Persian religion. See Ahriman. 

ORN:  To ornament; to adorn. [Obs.] Joye. 

ORNAMENT:  That which embellishes or adorns; that which adds grace or beauty; embellishment; decoration; adornment. The ornament of a meek and quiet spirit. 1 Pet. iii. 4. Like that long-buried body of the king Found lying with his urns and ornaments. Tennyson. 

ORNAMENT:  To adorn; to deck; to embellish; to beautify; as, to ornament a room, or a city.  Syn.  -- See Adorn. 

ORNAMENTAL:  Serving to ornament; characterized by ornament; beautifying; embellishing. Some think it most ornamental to wear their bracelets on their wrists; others, about their ankles. Sir T. Browne. 

ORNAMENTALLY:  By way of ornament. 

ORNAMENTER:  One who ornaments; a decorator. 

ORNATE:  To adorn; to honor. [R.] They may ornate and sanctify the name of God. Latimer. 

ORNATELY:  In an ornate manner. Sir T. More. 

ORNATENESS:  The quality of being ornate. 

ORNATURE:  Decoration; ornamentation. [R.] Holinshed. 

ORNITHIC:  Of or pertaining to birds; as, ornithic fossils. Owen. 

ORNITHICHNITE:  The footmark of a bird occurring in strata of stone. Hitchcock. 

ORNITHICHNOLOGY:  The branch of science which treats of ornithichnites. Hitchcock.  ORNITHO- Ornitho-. Etym: [Cf. Ern.]  A combining form fr. Gr. 

ORNITHODELPHIA:  Same as Monotremata.  -- Or`ni*tho*del"phid, a. 

ORNITHOIDICHNITE:  A fossil track resembling that of a bird. Hitchcock. 

ORNITHOLITE:  Of or pertaining to ornithology. 

ORNITHOLOGIST:  One skilled in ornithology; a student of ornithology; one who describes birds. 

ORNITHOMANCY:  Divination by means of birds, their flight, etc. Ornithomancy grew into an elaborate science. De Quincey. 

ORNITHON:  An aviary; a poultry house. Weale. 

ORNITHOPAPPI:  An extinct order of birds. It includes only the Archæopteryx. 

ORNITHOPODA:  An order of herbivorous dinosaurs with birdlike characteristics in the skeleton, esp. in the pelvis and hind legs, which in some genera had only three functional toes, and supported the body in walking as in Iguanodon. See Illust. in Appendix. 

ORNITHORHYNCHUS:  See Duck mole, under Duck. 

ORNITHOSAURIA:  An order of extinct flying reptiles; -- called also Pterosauria. 

ORNITHOSCELIDA:  A group of extinct Reptilia, intermediate in structure (especially with regard to the pelvis) between reptiles and birds.  -- Or`ni*tho*scel"i*dan, a. 

ORNITHOSCOPY:  Observation of birds and their habits. [R.] De Quincey. 

ORNITHOTOMICAL:  Of or pertaining to ornithotomy. 

ORNITHOTOMIST:  One who is skilled in ornithotomy. 

ORNITHOTOMY:  The anatomy or dissection of birds. 

OROGRAPH:  A machine for use in making topographical maps. It is operated by being pushed across country, and not only records distances, like the perambulator, but also elevations.  OROGRAPHIC; OROGRAPHICAL Or`o*graph"ic, Or`o*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to orography. 

OROGRAPHY:  That branch of science which treats of mountains and mountain systems; orology; as, the orography of Western Europe. 

OROHELIOGRAPH:  A camera for obtaining a circular panoramic view of the horizon. The photographic plate is placed horizontally with a vertical lens above. A mirror of peculiar shape reflects light from the entire horizon to the lens, by means of which it is focused upon the plate. 

OROHIPPUS:  A genus of American Eocene mammals allied to the horse, but having four toes in front and three behind. 

OROIDE:  An alloy, chiefly of copper and zinc or tin, resembling gold in color and brilliancy. [Written also oreide.] 

OROLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to orology. 

OROLOGIST:  One versed in orology. 

OROLOGY:  The science or description of mountains. 

OROMETER:  An aneroid barometer having a second scale that gives the approximate elevation above sea level of the place where the observation is made. 

OROTUND:  Characterized by fullness, clearness, strength, and smoothness; ringing and musical; -- said of the voice or manner of utterance.  -- n.  The orotund voice or utterance Rush. 

OROTUNDITY:  The orotund mode of intonation. 

ORPHALINE:  See Orpheline. [Obs.] 

ORPHAN:  A child bereaved of both father and mother; sometimes, also, a child who has but one parent living. Orphans' court (Law), a court in some of the States of the Union, having jurisdiction over the estates and persons of orphans or other wards. Bouvier. 

ORPHAN:  Bereaved of parents, or (sometimes) of one parent. 

ORPHAN:  To cause to become an orphan; to deprive of parents. Young. 

ORPHANCY:  Orphanhood. Sir P. Sidney. 

ORPHANET:  A little orphan. Drayton. 

ORPHANHOOD:  The state or condition of being an orphan; orphanage. 

ORPHANISM:  Orphanhood. [R.] 

ORPHANOTROPHISM:  The care and support of orphans. [R.] Cotton Mather (1711). 

ORPHARION:  An old instrument of the lute or cittern kind. [Spelt also orpheoreon.] 

ORPHEAN:  Of or pertaining to Orpheus, the mythic poet and musician; as, Orphean strains. Cowper. 

ORPHELINE:  An orphan. [Obs.] Udcll. 

ORPHEUS:  The famous mythic Thracian poet, son of the Muse Calliope, and husband of Eurydice. He is reputed to have had power to entrance beasts and inanimate objects by the music of his lyre. 

ORPHIC:  Pertaining to Orpheus; Orphean; as, Orphic hymns. 

ORPHREY:  A band of rich embroidery, wholly or in part of gold, affixed to vestments, especially those of ecclesiastics. Pugin. 

ORPIMENT:  Arsenic sesquisulphide, produced artificially as an amorphous lemonyellow powder, and occurring naturally as a yellow crystalline mineral; -- formerly called auripigment. It is used in king's yellow, in white Indian fire, and in certain technical processes, as indigo printing. Our orpiment and sublimed mercurie. Chaucer. Red orpiment, realgar; the red sulphide of arsenic.  -- Yellow orpiment, king's yellow. 

ORPIN:  The orpine. 

ORPINE:  A low plant with fleshy leaves (Sedum telephium), having clusters of purple flowers. It is found on dry, sandy places, and on old walls, in England, and has become naturalized in America. Called also stonecrop, and live-forever. [Written also orpin.] 

ORRACH:  See Orach. 

ORRERY:  An apparatus which illustrates, by the revolution of balls moved by wheelwork, the relative size, periodic motions, positions, orbits, etc., of bodies in the solar system. 

ORRIS:  A plant of the genus Iris (I. Florentina); a kind of flower-de- luce. Its rootstock has an odor resembling that of violets. Orris pea (Med.), an issue pea made from orris root.  -- Orris root, the fragrant rootstock of the orris. 

ORRIS:  A sort of gold or silver lace. Johnson.  2. A peculiar pattern in which gold lace or silver lace is worked; especially, one in which the edges are ornamented with conical figures placed at equal distances, with spots between them.  ORSEDEW; ORSEDUE Orse"dew, Or"se*due, n.  Leaf metal of bronze; Dutch metal. See under Dutch. 

ORSEILLE:  See Archil. 

ORSELLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in certain lichens, and called also lecanoric acid. [Formerly written also orseillic.] 

ORSELLINIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained by a partial decomposition of orsellic acid as a white crystalline substance, and related to protocatechuic acid. 

ORT:  A morsel left at a meal; a fragment; refuse; -- commonly used in the plural. Milton. Let him have time a beggar's orts to crave. Shak. 

ORTALIDIAN:  Any one of numerous small two-winged flies of the family Ortalidæ. The larvæ of many of these flies live in fruit; those of others produce galls on various plants. 

ORTHID:  A brachiopod shell of the genus Orthis, and allied genera, of the family Orthidæ. 

ORTHIS:  An extinct genus of Brachiopoda, abundant in the Paleozoic rocks. 

ORTHITE:  A variety of allanite occurring in slender prismatic crystals.  ORTHO- Or"tho-. Etym: [Gr. upright, vrdh to grow, to cause to grow.]  1. A combining form signifying straight, right, upright, correct, regular; as, orthodromy, orthodiagonal, orthodox, orthographic.  2. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively), designating: (a) (Inorganic Chem.) The one of several acids of the same element (as the phosphoric acids), which actually occurs with the greatest number of hydroxyl groups; as, orthophosphoric acid. Cf. Normal. (b) (Organic Chem.)  Connection with, or affinity to, one variety of isomerism, characteristic of the benzene compounds; -- contrasted with meta- or para-; as, the ortho position; hence, designating any substance showing such isomerism; as, an ortho compound.  Note: In the graphic representation of the benzene nucleus (see Benzene nucleus, under Benzene), provisionally adopted, any substance exhibiting double substitution in adjacent and contiguous carbon atoms, as 1 & 2, 3 & 4, 4 & 5, etc., is designated by ortho-; as, orthoxylene; any substance exhibiting substitution of two carbon atoms with one intervening, as 1 & 3, 2 & 4, 3 & 5, 4 & 6, etc., by meta-; as, resorcin or metaxylene; any substance exhibiting substitution in opposite parts, as 1 & 4, 2 & 5, 3 & 6, by para-; as, hydroquinone or paraxylene. 

ORTHOCARBONIC:  Designating a complex ether, C.(OC2H5)4, which is obtained as a liquid of a pleasant ethereal odor by means of chlorpicrin, and is believed to be a derivative of the hypothetical normal carbonic acid, C.(OH)4. 

ORTHOCENTER:  That point in which the three perpendiculars let fall from the angles of a triangle upon the opposite sides, or the sides produced, mutually intersect. 

ORTHOCERAS:  An extinct genus of Paleozoic Cephalopoda, having a long, straight, conical shell. The interior is divided into numerous chambers by transverse septa. 

ORTHOCERATITE:  An orthoceras; also, any fossil shell allied to Orthoceras. 

ORTHOCLASE:  Common or potash feldspar crystallizing in the monoclinic system and having two cleavages at right angles to each other. See Feldspar. 

ORTHOCLASTIC:  Breaking in directions at right angles to each other; -- said of the monoclinic feldspars. 

ORTHODIAGONAL:  The diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which is at right angles with the vertical axis. 

ORTHODOME:  See the Note under Dome, 4. 

ORTHODOXAL:  Pertaining to, or evincing, orthodoxy; orthodox. [R.] Milton. 

ORTHODOXALITY:  Orthodoxness. [R.] 

ORTHODOXALLY:  Orthodoxly. [R.] Milton 

ORTHODOXASTICAL:  Orthodox. [Obs.] 

ORTHODOXICAL:  Pertaining to, or evincing, orthodoxy; orthodox. 

ORTHODOXLY:  In an orthodox manner; with soundness of faith. Sir W. Hamilton. 

ORTHODOXNESS:  The quality or state of being orthodox; orthodoxy. Waterland. 

ORTHODROMIC:  Of or pertaining to orthodromy. 

ORTHODROMICS:  The art of sailing in a direct course, or on the arc of a great circle, which is the shortest distance between any two points on the surface of the globe; great-circle sailing; orthodromy. 

ORTHODROMY:  The act or art of sailing on a great circle.  ORTHOEPIC; ORTHOEPICAL Or`tho*ëp"ic, Or`tho*ëp"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to orthoëpy, or correct pronunciation.  -- Or`tho*ëp"ic*al*ly, adv. 

ORTHOEPIST:  One who is skilled in orthoëpy. 

ORTHOEPY:  The art of uttering words corectly; a correct pronunciation of words; also, mode of pronunciation. 

ORTHOGAMY:  Direct fertilization in plants, as when the pollen fertilizing the ovules comes from the stamens of the same blossom; -- opposed to heterogamy. 

ORTHOGNATHIC:  Orthognathous. 

ORTHOGNATHISM:  The quality or state of being orthognathous. Huxley. 

ORTHOGNATHOUS:  Having the front of the head, or the skull, nearly perpendicular, not retreating backwards above the jaws; -- opposed to Ant: prognathous. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic. 

ORTHOGON:  A rectangular figure. 

ORTHOGONAL:  Right-angled; rectangular; as, an orthogonal intersection of one curve with another. Orthogonal projection. See under Orthographic. 

ORTHOGONALLY:  Perpendicularly; at right angles; as, a curve cuts a set of curves orthogonally. 

ORTHOGRAPH:  An orthographic projection, sometimes partly in section, esp. of a building. 

ORTHOGRAPHER:  One versed in orthography; one who spells words correctly.  ORTHOGRAPHIC; ORTHOGRAPHICAL Or`tho*graph"ic, Or`tho*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. orthographique, L. orthographus, Gr.  1. Of or pertaining to orthography, or right spelling; also, correct in spelling; as, orthographical rules; the letter was orthographic.  2. (Geom.)  Of or pertaining to right lines or angles. Orthographic or Orthogonal, projection, that projection which is made by drawing lines, from every point to be projected, perpendicular to the plane of projection. Such a projection of the sphere represents its circles as seen in perspective by an eye supposed to be placed at an infinite distance, the plane of projection passing through the center of the sphere perpendicularly to the line of sight. 

ORTHOGRAPHICALLY:  In an orthographical manner: (a) according to the rules of proper spelling; (b) according to orthographic projection. 

ORTHOGRAPHIST:  One who spells words correctly; an orthographer. 

ORTHOGRAPHIZE:  To spell correctly or according to usage; to correct in regard to spelling. In the coalesced into ith, which modern reaction has orthographized to i' th'. Earle. 

ORTHOLOGY:  The right description of things. [R.] Fotherby. 

ORTHOMETRIC:  Having the axes at right angles to one another; -- said of crystals or crystalline forms. 

ORTHOMETRY:  The art or practice of constructing verses correctly; the laws of correct versification. 

ORTHOMORPHIC:  Having the right form. Orthomorphic projection, a projection in which the angles in the figure to be projected are equal to the corresponding angles in the projected figure.  ORTHOPEDIC; ORTHOPEDICAL Or`tho*ped"ic, Or`tho*ped"ic*al, a. (Med.)  Pertaining to, or employed in, orthopedy; relating to the prevention or cure of deformities of children, or, in general, of the human body at any age; as, orthopedic surgery; an orthopedic hospital. 

ORTHOPEDIST:  One who prevents, cures, or remedies deformities, esp. in children. 

ORTHOPEDY:  The art or practice of curing the deformities of children, or, by extension, any deformities of the human body. 

ORTHOPHONY:  The art of correct articulation; voice training. 

ORTHOPINACOID:  A name given to the two planes in the monoclinic system which are parallel to the vertical and orthodiagonal axes.  ORTHOPNOEA; ORTHOPNY Or`thop*noe"a, Or*thop"ny, n. Etym: [L. orthopnoea, Gr. orthopnée.] (Med.)  Specifically, a morbid condition in which respiration can be performed only in an erect posture; by extension, any difficulty of breathing. 

ORTHOPODA:  An extinct order of reptiles which stood erect on the hind legs, and resembled birds in the structure of the feet, pelvis, and other parts. 

ORTHOPRAXY:  The treatment of deformities in the human body by mechanical appliances. 

ORTHOPTERA:  An order of mandibulate insects including grasshoppers, locusts, cockroaches, etc. See Illust. under Insect.  Note: The anterior wings are usually thickened and protect the posterior wings, which are larger and fold longitudinally like a fan. The Orthoptera undergo no metamorphosis. 

ORTHOPTERAN:  One of the Orthoptera. 

ORTHOPTEROUS:  Of or pertaining to the Orthoptera. 

ORTHORHOMBIC:  Noting the system of crystallization which has three unequal axes at right angles to each other; trimetric. See Crystallization. 

ORTHOSCOPE:  An instrument designed to show the condition of the superficial portions of the eye. 

ORTHOSCOPIC:  Giving an image in correct or normal proportions; giving a flat field of view; as, an orthoscopic eyepiece. 

ORTHOSILICIC:  Designating the form of silicic acid having the normal or highest number of hydroxyl groups. 

ORTHOSPERMOUS:  Having the seeds straight, as in the fruits of some umbelliferous plants; -- opposed to coelospermous. Darwin. 

ORTHOSTADE:  A chiton, or loose, ungirded tunic, falling in straight folds. 

ORTHOSTICHY:  A longitudinal rank, or row, of leaves along a stem. 

ORTHOTOMIC:  Cutting at right angles. Orthotomic circle (Geom.), that circle which cuts three given circles at right angles. 

ORTHOTOMOUS:  Having two cleavages at right angles with one another. 

ORTHOTOMY:  The property of cutting at right angles. 

ORTHOTONE:  Retaining the accent; not enclitic; -- said of certain indefinite pronouns and adverbs when used interrogatively, which, when not so used, are ordinarilly enclitic.  ORTHOTROPAL; ORTHOTROPOUS Or*thot"ro*pal, Or*thot"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Ortho- + Gr. orthotrope.] (Bot.)  Having the axis of an ovule or seed straight from the hilum and chalaza to the orifice or the micropyle; atropous.  Note: This word has also been used (but improperly) to describe any embryo whose radicle points towards, or is next to, the hilum. 

ORTHOTROPIC:  Having the longer axis vertical; -- said of erect stems. Encyc. Brit. 

ORTHOXYLENE:  That variety of xylene in which the two methyl groups are in the ortho position; a colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon resembling benzene. 

ORTIVE:  Of or relating to the time or act of rising; eastern; as, the ortive amplitude of a planet. 

ORTYGAN:  One of several species of East Indian birds of the genera Ortygis and Hemipodius. They resemble quails, but lack the hind toe. See Turnix. 

ORVAL:  A kind of sage (Salvia Horminum). 

ORVET:  The blindworm. 

ORVIETAN:  A kind of antidote for poisons; a counter poison formerly in vogue. [Obs.]  -ORY -o*ry. Etym: [L. -orius: cf. F. -oire.]  1. An adjective suffix meaning of or pertaining to, serving for; as in auditory, pertaining to or serving for hearing; prohibitory, amendatory, etc.  2. Etym: [L. -orium: cf. F. -oire.]  A noun suffix denoting that which pertains to, or serves for; as in ambulatory, that which serves for walking; consistory, factory, etc.  ORYAL; ORYALL O"ry*al, O"ry*all, n.  See Oriel. 

ORYCTERE:  The aard-vark. 

ORYCTEROPE:  Same as Oryctere. 

ORYCTOGNOSY:  Mineralogy. [Obs.] -- Or`yc*tog*nos"tic, a.  -- Or`yc*tog*nos"tic*al, a. [Obs.] -- Or`yc*tog*nos"tic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

ORYCTOGRAPHY:  Description of fossils. [Obs.] 

ORYCTOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to oryctology. [Obs.] 

ORYCTOLOGIST:  One versed in oryctology. [Obs.] 

ORYX:  A genus of African antelopes which includes the gemsbok, the leucoryx, the bisa antelope (O. beisa), and the beatrix antelope (O. beatrix) of Arabia. 

ORYZA:  A genus of grasses including the rice plant; rice. 

OS:  A bone. 

OS:  A mouth; an opening; an entrance. 

OS:  One of the ridges of sand or gravel found in Sweden, etc., supposed by some to be of marine origin, but probably formed by subglacial waters. The osar are similar to the kames of Scotland and the eschars of Ireland. See Eschar.  OSAGE ORANGE O"sage or"ange. (Bot.)  An ornamental tree of the genus Maclura (M. aurantiaca), closely allied to the mulberry (Morus); also, its fruit. The tree was first found in the country of the Osage Indians, and bears a hard and inedible fruit of an orangelike appearance. See Bois d'arc. 

OSAGES:  A tribe of southern Sioux Indians, now living in the Indian Territory. 

OSANNE:  Hosanna. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OSAR:  See 3d Os. 

OSCAN:  Of or pertaining to the Osci, a primitive people of Campania, a province of ancient Italy.  -- n.  The language of the Osci. 

OSCILLANCY:  The state of oscillating; a seesaw kind of motion. [R.] 

OSCILLARIA:  A genus of dark green, or purplish black, filamentous, fresh- water algæ, the threads of which have an automatic swaying or crawling motion. Called also Oscillatoria. 

OSCILLATING:  That oscillates; vibrating; swinging. Oscillating engine, a steam engine whose cylinder oscillates on trunnions instead of being permanently fixed in a perpendicular or other direction. Weale.  OSCILLATING CURRENT Os"cil*lat`ing current. (Elec.)  A current alternating in direction. 

OSCILLATIVE:  Tending to oscillate; vibratory. [R.] I. Taylor. 

OSCILLATOR:  Any device for producing electric oscillations; esp., an apparatus for generating electric waves in a system of wireless telegraphy.  (b) (Mech.) An instrument for measuring rigidity by the torsional oscillations of a weighted wire. 

OSCILLATORIA:  Same as Oscillaria. 

OSCILLATORY:  Moving, or characterized by motion, backward and forward like a pendulum; swinging; oscillating; vibratory; as, oscillatory motion. 

OSCILLOGRAM:  An autographic record made by an oscillograph. 

OSCILLOGRAPH:  An apparatus for recording or indicating alternating-current wave forms or other electrical oscillations, usually consisting of a galvanometer with strong field, in which the mass of the moving part is very small and frequency of vibration very high. -- Os`cil*lo*graph"ic (#), a. 

OSCILLOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the angle through which a ship rolls or pitches at sea. 

OSCILLOSCOPE:  An instrument for showing visually the changes in a varying current; an oscillograph. 

OSCINE:  Relating to the Oscines. 

OSCINES:  Singing birds; a group of the Passeres, having numerous syringeal muscles, conferring musical ability. 

OSCINIAN:  One of the Oscines, or singing birds. 

OSCINIAN:  Any one of numerous species of dipterous files of the family Oscinidæ.  Note: Some, whose larvæ live in the stalks, are very destructive to barley, wheat, and rye; others, as the barley fly (Oscinis frit), destroy the heads of grain. 

OSCININE:  Of or pertaining to the Oscines. 

OSCITANTLY:  In an oscitant manner. 

OSCITATE:  To gape; to yawn. 

OSCITATION:  The act of yawning or gaping. Addison. 

OSCULANT:  Adhering closely; embracing; -- applied to certain creeping animals, as caterpillars.  3. (Biol.)  Intermediate in character, or on the border, between two genera, groups, families, etc., of animals or plants, and partaking somewhat of the characters of each, thus forming a connecting link; interosculant; as, the genera by which two families approximate are called osculant genera. 

OSCULATE:  To touch closely, so as to have a common curvature at the point of contact. See Osculation, 2. 

OSCULATE:  To touch closely. See Osculation, 2.  3. (Biol.)  To have characters in common with two genera or families, so as to form a connecting link between them; to interosculate. See Osculant. 

OSCULATION:  The contact of one curve with another, when the number of consecutive points of the latter through which the former passes suffices for the complete determination of the former curve. Brande & C. 

OSCULATORY:  Pertaining to, or having the properties of, an osculatrix; capable of osculation; as, a circle may be osculatory with a curve, at a given point. Osculatory circle. (Geom.) See Osculating circle of a curve, under Circle.  -- Osculatory plane (to a curve of double curvature), a plane which passes through three successive points of the curve.  -- Osculatory sphere (to a line of double curvature), a sphere passing through four consecutive points of the curve. 

OSCULATORY:  Same as Pax, 2. 

OSCULATRIX:  A curve whose contact with a given curve, at a given point, is of a higher order (or involves the equality of a greater number of successive differential coefficients of the ordinates of the curves taken at that point) than that of any other curve of the same kind. 

OSCULE:  One of the excurrent apertures of sponges. 

OSCULUM:  Same as Oscule.  -OSE -ose. Etym: [L. -osus: cf. F. -ose. Cf. -ous.]  1. A suffix denoting full of, containing, having the qualities of, like; as in verbose, full of words; pilose, hairy; globose, like a globe.  2. (Chem.)  A suffix indicating that the substance to the name of wich it is affixed is a member of the carbohydrate group; as in cellulose, sucrose, dextrose, etc. 

OSIER:  Made of osiers; composed of, or containing, osiers. "This osier cage of ours." Shak. 

OSIERED:  Covered or adorned with osiers; as, osiered banks. [Poetic] Collins. 

OSIERY:  An osier bed. 

OSIRIS:  One of the principal divinities of Egypt, the brother and husband of Isis. He was figured as a mummy wearing the royal cap of Upper Egypt, and was symbolized by the sacred bull, called Apis. Cf. Serapis.  -- O*sir"i*an, a. 

OSMANLI:  A Turkish official; one of the dominant tribe of Turks; loosely, any Turk. 

OSMATE:  A salt of osmic acid. [Formerly written also osmiate.] 

OSMATERIUM:  One of a pair of scent organs which the larvæ of certain butterflies emit from the first body segment, either above or below. 

OSMAZOME:  A substance formerly supposed to give to soup and broth their characteristic odor, and probably consisting of one or several of the class of nitrogenous substances which are called extractives. 

OSMIAMATE:  A salt of osmiamic acid. 

OSMIAMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid of osmium, H2N2Os2O5, forming a well-known series of yellow salts. 

OSMIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, osmium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a valence higher than in other lower compounds; as, osmic oxide. Osmic acid. (Chem.) (a) Osmic tetroxide. [Obs.] (b) Osmic acid proper, an acid analogous to sulphuric acid, not known in the free state, but forming a well-known and stable series of salts (osmates), which were formerly improperly called osmites.  -- Osmic tetroxide (Chem.), a white volatile crystalline substance, OsO4, the most stable and characteristic of the compounds of osmium. It has a burning taste, and gives off a vapor, which is a powerful irritant poison, violently attacking the eyes, and emitting a strong chlorinelike odor. Formerly improperly called osmic acid. 

OSMIDROSIS:  The secretion of fetid sweat. 

OSMIOUS:  Denoting those compounds of osmium in which the element has a valence relatively lower than in the osmic compounds; as, osmious chloride. [Written also osmous.] Osmious acid (Chem.), an acid derived from osmium, analogous to sulphurous acid, and forming unstable salts. It is a brown amorphous substance. 

OSMITE:  A salt of osmious acid. 

OSMIUM:  A rare metallic element of the platinum group, found native as an alloy in platinum ore, and in iridosmine. It is a hard, infusible, bluish or grayish white metal, and the heaviest substance known. Its tetroxide is used in histological experiments to stain tissues. Symbol Os. Atomic weight 191.1. Specific gravity 22.477. 

OSMOGENE:  An apparatus, consisting of a number of cells whose sides are of parchment paper, for conducting the process of osmosis. It is used esp. in sugar refining to remove potassium salts from the molasses. 

OSMOGRAPH:  An instrument for recording the height of the liquid in an endosmometer or for registering osmotic pressures. 

OSMOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the amount of osmotic action in different liquids. 

OSMOMETRY:  The study of osmose by means of the osmometer. 

OSMOSIS:  Osmose. 

OSMOTIC:  Pertaining to, or having the property of, osmose; as, osmotic force. 

OSMUND:  A fern of the genus Osmunda, or flowering fern. The most remarkable species is the osmund royal, or royal fern (Osmunda regalis), which grows in wet or boggy places, and has large bipinnate fronds, often with a panicle of capsules at the top. The rootstock contains much starch, and has been used in stiffening linen. 

OSNABURG:  A species of coarse linen, originally made in Osnaburg, Germany.  OSO-BERRY O"so-ber`ry, n. (Bot.)  The small, blueblack, drupelike fruit of the Nuttallia cerasiformis, a shrub of Oregon and California, belonging to the Cherry tribe of Rosaceæ. 

OSPHRADIUM:  The olfactory organ of some Mollusca. It is connected with the organ of respiration.  OSPREY; OSPRAY Os"prey, Os"pray, n. Etym: [Through OF. fr. L. ossifraga (orig., the bone breaker); prob. influenced by oripelargus (mountain stork, a kind of eagle, Gr. orpres, and F. orfraie. See Ossifrage.] (Zoöl.)  The fishhawk. 

OSS:  To prophesy; to presage. [R. & Obs.] R. Edgeworth. 

OSSE:  A prophetic or ominous utterance. [R. & Obs.] Holland. 

OSSEAN:  A fish having a bony skeleton; a teleost. 

OSSEIN:  The organic basis of bone tissue; the residue after removal of the mineral matters from bone by dilute acid; in embryonic tissue, the substance in which the mineral salts are deposited to form bone; -- called also ostein. Chemically it is the same as collagen. 

OSSELET:  The internal bone, or shell, of a cuttlefish. 

OSSEOUS:  Composed of bone; resembling bone; capable of forming bone; bony; ossific. 

OSSETER:  A species of sturgeon. 

OSSIANIC:  Of or pertaining to, or characteristic of, Ossian, a legendary Erse or Celtic bard. The compositions might be fairly classed as Ossianic. G. Eliot. 

OSSICLE:  One of numerous small calcareous structures forming the skeleton of certain echinoderms, as the starfishes. 

OSSICULATED:  Having small bones. 

OSSICULUM:  Same as Ossicle. 

OSSIFEROUS:  Containing or yielding bone. 

OSSIFIC:  Capable of producing bone; having the power to change cartilage or other tissue into bone. 

OSSIFICATION:  The formation of bone; the process, in the growth of an animal, by which inorganic material (mainly lime salts) is deposited in cartilage or membrane, forming bony tissue; ostosis.  Note: Besides the natural ossification of growing tissue, there is the so-called accidental ossification which sometimes follows certain abnormal conditions, as in the ossification of an artery.  2. The state of being changed into a bony substance; also, a mass or point of ossified tissue. 

OSSIFIED:  Changed to bone or something resembling bone; hardened by deposits of mineral matter of any kind; -- said of tissues. 

OSSIFRAGOUS:  Serving to break bones; bone-breaking. 

OSSIFY:  To form into bone; to change from a soft animal substance into bone, as by the deposition of lime salts.  2. Fig.: To harden; as, to ossify the heart. Ruskin. 

OSSIFY:  To become bone; to change from a soft tissue to a hard bony tissue. 

OSSIFYING:  Changing into bone; becoming bone; as, the ossifying process. 

OSSIVOROUS:  Feeding on bones; eating bones; as, ossivorous quadrupeds. Derham. 

OSSPRINGER:  The osprey. [R.] 

OSSUARIUM:  A charnel house; an ossuary. Walpole. 

OSSUARY:  A place where the bones of the dead are deposited; a charnel house. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

OST:  See Oast. 

OSTEAL:  Osseous. 

OSTEIN:  Ossein. 

OSTEITIS:  Inflammation of bone. 

OSTELER:  Same as Hosteler. Wyclif. 

OSTEND:  To exhibit; to manifest. [Obs.] Mercy to mean offenders we'll ostend. J. Webster. 

OSTENSIBILITY:  The quality or state of being ostensible. 

OSTENSIBLY:  In an ostensible manner; avowedly; professedly; apparently. Walsh. Ostensibly, we were intended to prevent filibustering into Texas, but really as a menace to Mexico. U. S. Grant. 

OSTENSION:  The showing of the sacrament on the altar in order that it may receive the adoration of the communicants. 

OSTENSIVE:  Showing; exhibiting. Ostensive demonstration (Math.), a direct or positive demonstration, as opposed to the apagogical or indirect method. 

OSTENSIVELY:  In an ostensive manner.  OSTENSORIUM; OSTENSORY Os`ten*so"ri*um, Os*ten"so*ry, n.; pl. L. -soria, E. -sories. Etym: [NL. ostensorium: cf. F. ostensoir. See Ostensible.] (R. C. Ch.)  Same as Monstrance. 

OSTENTATE:  To make an ambitious display of; to show or exhibit boastingly. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

OSTENTATIOUS:  Fond of, or evincing, ostentation; unduly conspicuous; pretentious; boastful. Far from being ostentatious of the good you do. Dryden. The ostentatious professions of many years. Macaulay. -- Os`ten*ta"tious*ly, adv.  -- Os`ten*ta"tious*ness, n. 

OSTENTATOR:  One fond of display; a boaster. Sherwood. 

OSTENTIVE:  Ostentatious. [Obs.] 

OSTENTOUS:  Ostentatious. [Obs.] Feltham.  OSTEO- Os"te*o-.  A combining form of Gr. a bone. 

OSTEOBLAST:  One of the protoplasmic cells which occur in the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum, and from or around which the matrix of the bone is developed; an osteoplast. 

OSTEOCLASIS:  The operation of breaking a bone in order to correct deformity. 

OSTEOCLAST:  A myeloplax.  Note: The osteoclasts occur usually in pits or cavities which they appear to have excavated, and are supposed to be concerned in the absorption of the bone matrix.  2. An instrument for performing osteoclasis. 

OSTEOCOMMA:  A metamere of the vertebrate skeleton; an osteomere; a vertebra. Owen. 

OSTEOCOPE:  Pain in the bones; a violent fixed pain in any part of a bone.  -- Os`te*o*cop"ic, a. 

OSTEOCRANIUM:  The bony cranium, as distinguished from the cartilaginous cranium. 

OSTEODENTINE:  A hard substance, somewhat like bone, which is sometimes deposited within the pulp cavity of teeth. 

OSTEOGEN:  The soft tissue, or substance, which, in developing bone, ultimately undergoes ossification.  OSTEOGENESIS; OSTEOGENY Os`te*o*gen"e*sis, Os`te*og"e*ny, n. Etym: [Osteo- + genesis, or the root of Gr. ostéogénie.] (Physiol.)  The formation or growth of bone. 

OSTEOGENETIC:  Connected with osteogenesis, or the formation of bone; producing bone; as, osteogenetic tissue; the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum. 

OSTEOGENIC:  Osteogenetic. 

OSTEOGRAPHER:  An osteologist. 

OSTEOGRAPHY:  The description of bones; osteology. 

OSTEOID:  Resembling bone; bonelike. 

OSTEOLITE:  A massive impure apatite, or calcium phosphate. 

OSTEOLOGER:  One versed in osteology; an osteologist.  OSTEOLOGIC; OSTEOLOGICAL Os`te*o*log"ic, Os`te*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ostéologique.]  Of or pertaining to osteology.  -- Os`te*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

OSTEOLOGIST:  One who is skilled in osteology; an osteologer. 

OSTEOLOGY:  The science which treats of the bones of the vertebrate skeleton. 

OSTEOLYSIS:  Softening and absorption of bone. -- Os`te*o*lyt"ic (#), a. 

OSTEOMA:  A tumor composed mainly of bone; a tumor of a bone. 

OSTEOMALACIA:  A disease of the bones, in which they lose their earthy material, and become soft, flexible, and distorted. Also called malacia. 

OSTEOMANTY:  Divination by means of bones. [R.] 

OSTEOMERE:  An osteocomma. Owen. 

OSTEOPATH:  A practitioner of osteopathy. 

OSTEOPATHIC:  Of or pertaining to osteopathy. --Os`te*o*path"ic*al*ly (#), adv. 

OSTEOPATHIST:  One who practices osteopathy; an osteopath. 

OSTEOPERIOSTITIS:  Inflammation of a bone and its periosteum. 

OSTEOPHONE:  An instrument for transmission of auditory vibrations through the bones of the head, so as to be appreciated as sounds by persons deaf from causes other than those affecting the nervous apparatus of hearing. 

OSTEOPLAST:  An osteoblast. 

OSTEOPLASTIC:  Producing bone; as, osteoplastic cells.  2. (Med.)  Of or pertaining to the replacement of bone; as, an osteoplastic operation. 

OSTEOPLASTY:  An operation or process by which the total or partial loss of a bone is remedied. Dunglison. 

OSTEOPOROSIS:  An absorption of bone so that the tissue becomes unusually porous. 

OSTEOPTERYGIOUS:  Having bones in the fins, as certain fishes. 

OSTEOSARCOMA:  A tumor having the structure of a sacroma in which there is a deposit of bone; sarcoma connected with bone. 

OSTEOSCLEROSIS:  Abnormal hardness and density of bone. 

OSTEOTOME:  Strong nippers or a chisel for dividing bone. 

OSTEOTOMIST:  One skilled in osteotomy. 

OSTEOTOMY:  The operation of dividing a bone or of cutting a piece out of it, -- done to remedy deformity, etc. 

OSTEOZOA:  Same as Vertebrata. 

OSTIC:  Pertaining to, or applied to, the language of the Tuscaroras, Iroquois, Wyandots, Winnebagoes, and a part of the Sioux Indians. Schoolcraft. 

OSTITIS:  See Osteitis. 

OSTIUM:  An opening; a passage. 

OSTLER:  See Hostler. 

OSTLERESS:  A female ostler. [R.] Tennyson. 

OSTLERY:  See Hostelry. [Obs.] 

OSTMEN:  East men; Danish settlers in Ireland, formerly so called. Lyttelton. 

OSTOSIS:  Bone formation; ossification. See Ectostosis, and Endostosis. 

OSTRACEA:  A division of bivalve mollusks including the oysters and allied shells. 

OSTRACEAN:  Any one of a family of bivalves, of which the oyster is the type. 

OSTRACION:  A genus of plectognath fishes having the body covered with solid, immovable, bony plates. It includes the trunkfishes. 

OSTRACIONT:  A fish of the genus Ostracion and allied genera. 

OSTRACISM:  Banishment by popular vote, -- a means adopted at Athens to rid the city of a person whose talent and influence gave umbrage.  2. Banishment; exclusion; as, social ostracism. Public envy is as an ostracism, that eclipseth men when they grow too great. Bacon. Sentenced to a perpetual ostracism from the . . . confidence, and honors, and emoluments of his country. A. Hamilton. 

OSTRACITE:  A fossil oyster. 

OSTRACIZE:  To exile by ostracism; to banish by a popular vote, as at Athens. Grote.  2. To banish from society; to put under the ban; to cast out from social, political, or private favor; as, he was ostracized by his former friends. Marvell. 

OSTRACODA:  Ostracoidea. 

OSTRACODERMI:  A suborder of fishes of which Ostracion is the type. 

OSTRACOID:  Of or pertaining to the Ostracoidea.  -- n.  One of the Ostracoidea. 

OSTRACOIDEA:  An order of Entomostraca possessing hard bivalve shells. They are of small size, and swim freely about. [Written also Ostracoda.] 

OSTREA:  A genus of bivalve Mollusca which includes the true oysters. 

OSTREACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to an oyster, or to a shell; shelly. The crustaceous or ostreaceous body. Cudworth. 

OSTREACULTURE:  The artificial cultivation of oysters. 

OSTREOPHAGIST:  One who feeds on oysters. 

OSTRICH:  A large bird of the genus Struthio, of which Struthio camelus of Africa is the best known species. It has long and very strong legs, adapted for rapid running; only two toes; a long neck, nearly bare of feathers; and short wings incapable of flight. The adult male is about eight feet high.  Note: The South African ostrich (Struthio australis) and the Asiatic ostrich are considered distinct species by some authors. Ostriches are now domesticated in South Africa in large numbers for the sake of their plumes. The body of the male is covered with elegant black plumose feathers, while the wings and tail furnish the most valuable white plumes. Ostrich farm, a farm on which ostriches are bred for the sake of their feathers, oil, eggs, etc.  -- Ostrich farming, the occupation of breeding ostriches for the sake of their feathers, etc.  -- Ostrich fern (Bot.) a kind of fern (Onoclea Struthiopteris), the tall fronds of which grow in a circle from the rootstock. It is found in alluvial soil in Europe and North America. 

OSTRIFEROUS:  Producing oysters; containing oysters. 

OSTROGOTH:  One of the Eastern Goths. See Goth. 

OSTROGOTHIC:  Of or pertaining to the Ostrogoths.  OSWEGO TEA Os*we"go tea". (Bot.)  An American aromatic herb (Monarda didyma), with showy, bright red, labiate flowers. 

OTACOUSTIC:  Assisting the sense of hearing; as, an otacoustic instrument.  OTACOUSTIC; OTACOUSTICON Ot`a*cous"tic, Ot`a*cous"ti*con, n.  An instrument to facilitate hearing, as an ear trumpet.  OTAHEITE APPLE O`ta*hei"te ap"ple. Etym: [So named from Otaheite, or Tahiti, one of the Society Islands.] (Bot.) (a) The fruit of a Polynesian anacardiaceous tree (Spondias dulcis), also called vi-apple. It is rather larger than an apple, and the rind has a flavor of turpentine, but the flesh is said to taste like pineapples. (b) A West Indian name for a myrtaceous tree (Jambosa Malaccensis) which bears crimson berries. 

OTALGIA:  Pain in the ear; earache. 

OTALGIC:  Of or pertaining to otalgia.  -- n.  A remedy for otalgia. 

OTALGY:  Pain in the ear; otalgia. 

OTARY:  Any eared seal. 

OTHEOSCOPE:  An instrument for exhibiting the repulsive action produced by light or heat in an exhausted vessel; a modification of the radoimeter. W. Crookes. 

OTHER:  Either; -- used with other or or for its correlative (as either . . . or are now used). [Obs.] Other of chalk, other of glass. Chaucer. 

OTHER:  Otherwise. "It shall none other be." Chaucer. "If you think other." Shak. 

OTHERGATES:  In another manner. [Obs.] He would have tickled you othergates. Shak.  OTHERGUISE; OTHERGUESS Oth"er*guise`, Oth"er*guess`, a. & adv. Etym: [A corruption of othergates.]  Of another kind or sort; in another way. "Otherguess arguments." Berkeley. 

OTHERNESS:  The quality or state of being other or different; alterity; oppositeness. 

OTHERWAYS:  See Otherwise. Tyndale. 

OTHERWHERE:  In or to some other place, or places; elsewhere. Milton. Tennyson.  OTHERWHILE; OTHERWHILES Oth"er*while`, Oth"er*whiles`, adv.  At another time, or other times; sometimes; [Archaic] Weighing otherwhiles ten pounds and more. Holland. 

OTHMAN:  See Ottoman. 

OTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the ear; auricular; auditory. 

OTIOSE:  Being at leisure or ease; unemployed; indolent; idle. "Otiose assent." Paley. The true keeping of the Sabbath was not that otiose and unAlford. 

OTIOSITY:  Leisure; indolence; idleness; ease. [R.] Thackeray. 

OTIS:  A genus of birds including the bustards. 

OTITIS:  Inflammation of the ear.  OTO- O"to-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near or in, the ear.  OTOBA FAT O*to"ba fat`. (Chem.)  A colorless buttery substance obtained from the fruit of Myristica otoba, a species of nutmeg tree. 

OTOCRANE:  The cavity in the skull in which the parts of the internal ear are lodged. 

OTOCRANIAL:  Of or pertaining to the otocrane. 

OTOCYST:  An auditory cyst or vesicle; one of the simple auditory organs of many invertebrates, containing a fluid and otoliths; also, the embryonic vesicle from which the parts of the internal ear of vertebrates are developed. 

OTOGRAPHY:  A description of the ear.  OTOLITH; OTOLITE O"to*lith, O"to*lite, n. Etym: [Oto- + -lith, -lite.] (Anat.)  One of the small bones or particles of calcareous or other hard substance in the internal ear of vertebrates, and in the auditory organs of many invertebrates; an ear stone. Collectively, the otoliths are called ear sand and otoconite.  OTOLITHIC; OTOLITIC O`to*lith"ic, O`to*lit"ic, a. (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to otoliths. 

OTOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining tootology. 

OTOLOGIST:  One skilled in otology; an aurist. 

OTOLOGY:  The branch of science which treats of the ear and its diseases. 

OTOPATHY:  A diseased condition of the ear.  OTORRHEA; OTORRHOEA O`tor*rhe"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)  A flow or running from the ear, esp. a purulent discharge. 

OTOSCOPE:  An instrument for examining the condition of the ear. 

OTOSCOPEIC:  Of or pertaining to the otoscope or to otoscopy. 

OTOSCOPY:  The examination of the ear; the art of using the otoscope. 

OTOSTEAL:  An auditory ossicle. R. Owen. 

OTOZOUM:  An extinct genus of huge vertebrates, probably dinosaurs, known only from four-toed tracks in Triassic sandstones. 

OTTAR:  See Attar.  OTTAVA RIMA Ot*ta"va ri"ma. [It. See Octave, and Rhyme.] (Pros.)  A stanza of eight lines of heroic verse, with three rhymes, the first six lines rhyming alternately and the last two forming a couplet. It was used by Byron in "Don Juan," by Keats in "Isabella," by Shelley in "The Witch of Atlas," etc. 

OTTAWAS:  A tribe of Indians who, when first known, lived on the Ottawa River. Most of them subsequently migrated to the southwestern shore of Lake Superior. 

OTTER:  Any carnivorous animal of the genus Lutra, and related genera. Several species are described. They have large, flattish heads, short ears, and webbed toes. They are aquatic, and feed on fish. Their fur is soft and valuable. The common otter of Europe is Lutra vulgaris; the American otter is L. Canadensis; other species inhabit South America and Asia.  2. (Zoöl.)  The larva of the ghost moth. It is very injurious to hop vines. Otter hound, Otter dog (Zoöl.), a small breed of hounds, used in England for hunting otters.  -- Otter sheep. See Ancon sheep, under Ancon.  -- Otter shell (Zoöl.), very large bivalve mollusk (Schizothærus Nuttallii) found on the northwest coast of America. It is excellent food, and is extensively used by the Indians.  -- Sea otter. (Zoöl.) See in the Vocabulary. 

OTTER:  A corruption of Annotto. 

OTTO:  See Attar.  OTTO CYCLE Ot"to cy`cle. (Thermodynamics)  A four-stroke cycle for internal-combustion engines consisting of the following operations: First stroke, suction into cylinder of explosive charge, as of gas and air; second stroke, compression, ignition, and explosion of this charge; third stroke (the working stroke), expansion of the gases; fourth stroke, expulsion of the products of combustion from the cylinder. This is the cycle invented by Beau de Rochas in 1862 and applied by Dr. Otto in 1877 in the Otto-Crossley gas engine, the first commercially successful internal- combustion engine made.  OTTO ENGINE Otto engine.  An engine using the Otto cycle. 

OTTOMAN:  Of or pertaining to the Turks; as, the Ottoman power or empire. 

OTTOMAN:  A stuffed seat without a back, originally used in Turkey. 

OTTOMITE:  An Ottoman. [R.] Shak. 

OTTRELITE:  A micaceous mineral occurring in small scales. It is characteristic of certain crystalline schists. 

OUAKARI:  Any South American monkey of the genus Brachyurus, especially B. ouakari. 

OUANANICHE:  A small landlocked variety of the Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar ounaniche) of Lake St. John, Canada, and neighboring waters, noted for its vigor and activity, and habit of leaping from the water when hooked. 

OUANDEROO:  The wanderoo. 

OUARINE:  A Brazilian monkey of the genus Mycetes. 

OUBLIETTE:  A dungeon with an opening only at the top, found in some old castles and other strongholds, into which persons condemned to perpetual imprisonment, or to perish secretly, were thrust, or lured to fall. Sudden in the sun An oubliette winks. Where is he Gone. Mrs. Browning. 

OUCH:  A socket or bezel holding a precious stone; hence, a jewel or ornament worn on the person. A precious stone in a rich ouche. Sir T. Elyot. Your brooches, pearls, and ouches. Shak. 

OUGHNE:  Own. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OUGHT:  See Aught. 

OUGHTNESS:  The state of being as a thing ought to be; rightness. [R.] N. W. Taylor. 

OUGHWHERE:  Anywhere; somewhere. See Owher. [Obs.] 

OUISTITI:  See Wistit. 

OUL:  An awl. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OUL:  An owl. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OULACHAN:  Same as Eulachon. 

OUNCE:  The twelfth part of a troy pound.  Note: The troy ounce contains twenty pennyweights, each of twenty- four grains, or, in all, 480 grains, and is the twelfth part of the troy pound. The troy ounce is also a weight in apothecaries' weight. [Troy ounce is sometimes written as one word, troyounce.]  3. Fig.: A small portion; a bit. [Obs.] By ounces hung his locks that he had. Chaucer. Fluid ounce. See under Fluid, n. 

OUNCE:  A feline quadruped (Felis irbis, or uncia) resembling the leopard in size, and somewhat in color, but it has longer and thicker fur, which forms a short mane on the back. The ounce is pale yellowish gray, with irregular dark spots on the neck and limbs, and dark rings on the body. It inhabits the lofty mountain ranges of Asia. Called also once.  OUNDED; OUNDY Ound"ed, Oun"dy, a. Etym: [F. ondé, -ée, fr. onde, L. unda, a wave.]  Wavy; waving [Obs.] "Owndie hair." Chaucer. 

OUNDING:  Waving. [Obs.] Ounding, paling, winding, or bending . . . of cloth. Chaucer. 

OUPHE:  A fairy; a goblin; an elf. [Obs.] "Like urchins, ouphes, and fairies." Shak. 

OUPHEN:  Elfish. [Obs.] 

OUR:  Of or pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our country; our rights; our troops; our endeavors. See I. The Lord is our defense. Ps. lxxxix. 18.  Note: When the noun is not expressed, ours is used in the same way as hers for her, yours for your, etc.; as, whose house is that It is ours. Our wills are ours, we known not how. Tennyson.  -OUR -our. Etym: [OF. -our.]  See -or. 

OURANG:  The orang-outang.  OURANG-OUTANG Ou*rang"-ou*tang`, n. (Zoöl.)  See Orang-outang. 

OURANOGRAPHIST:  See Uranographist. 

OURANOGRAPHY:  See Uranography. 

OUREBI:  A small, graceful, and swift African antelope, allied to the klipspringer. 

OURETIC:  Uric. 

OUROLOGY:  See Urology. 

OUROSCOPY:  Ourology. 

OURS:  See Note under Our. 

OURSELVES:  ; sing. Ourself (we; also, alone in the predicate, in the nominative or the objective case. We ourselves might distinctly number in words a great deal further then we usually do. Locke. Safe in ourselves, while on ourselves we stand. Dryden.  Note: The form ourself is usec only in the regal or formal style after we or us, denoting a single person. Unless we would denude ourself of all force. Clarendon.  -OUS -ous. Etym: [OF. -ous, us, -os, F. -eux, fr. L. -osus, and -us. Cf. - ose.]  1. An adjective suffix meaning full of, abounding in, having, possessing the qualities of, like; as in gracious, abounding in grace; arduous, full of ardor; bulbous, having bulbs, bulblike; riotous, poisonous, piteous, joyous, etc.  2. (Chem.)  A suffix denoting that the element indicated by the name bearing it, has a valence lower than that denoted by the termination -ic; as, nitrous, sulphurous, etc., as contrasted with nitric, sulphuric, etc. 

OUSE:  See Ooze. [Obs.] 

OUSEL:  One of several species of European thrushes, especially the blackbird (Merula merula, or Turdus merula), and the mountain or ring ousel (Turdus torquatus). [Written also ouzel.] Rock ousel (Zoöl.), the ring ousel.  -- Water ousel (Zoöl.), the European dipper (Cinclus aquaticus), and the American dipper (C. Mexicanus). 

OUST:  See Oast. 

OUSTER:  A putting out of possession; dispossession; ejection; disseizin. Ouster of the freehold is effected by abatement, intrusion, disseizin, discontinuance, or deforcement. Blackstone. Ouster le main. Etym: [Ouster + F. la main the hand, L. manus.] (Law) A delivery of lands out of the hands of a guardian, or out of the king's hands, or a judgement given for that purpose. Blackstone. 

OUT:  In its original and strict sense, out means from the interior of something; beyond the limits or boundary of somethings; in a position or relation which is exterior to something; -- opposed to in or into. The something may be expressed after of, from, etc. (see Out of, below); or, if not expressed, it is implied; as, he is out; or, he is out of the house, office, business, etc.; he came out; or, he came out from the ship, meeting, sect, party, etc. Out is used in a variety of applications, as: --  1. Away; abroad; off; from home, or from a certain, or a usual, place; not in; not in a particular, or a usual, place; as, the proprietor is out, his team was taken out. "My shoulder blade is out." Shak. He hath been out (of the country) nine years. Shak.  2. Beyond the limits of concealment, confinement, privacy, constraint, etc., actual of figurative; hence, not in concealment, constraint, etc., in, or into, a state of freedom, openness, disclosure, publicity, etc.; as, the sun shines out; he laughed out, to be out at the elbows; the secret has leaked out, or is out; the disease broke out on his face; the book is out. Leaves are out and perfect in a month. Bacon. She has not been out [in general society] very long. H. James.  3. Beyond the limit of existence, continuance, or supply; to the end; completely; hence, in, or into, a condition of extinction, exhaustion, completion; as, the fuel, or the fire, has burned out. "Hear me out." Dryden. Deceitiful men shall not live out half their days. Ps. iv. 23. When the butt is out, we will drink water. Shak.  4. Beyond possession, control, or occupation; hence, in, or into, a state of want, loss, or deprivation; -- used of office, business, property, knowledge, etc.; as, the Democrats went out and the Whigs came in; he put his money out at interest. "Land that is out at rack rent." Locke. "He was out fifty pounds." Bp. Fell. I have forgot my part, and I am out. Shak.  5. Beyond the bounds of what is true, reasonable, correct, proper, common, etc.; in error or mistake; in a wrong or incorrect position or opinion; in a state of disagreement, opposition, etc.; in an inharmonious relation. "Lancelot and I are out." Shak. Wicked men are strangely out in the calculating of their own interest. South. Very seldom out, in these his guesses. Addison.  6. Not in the position to score in playing a game; not in the state or turn of the play for counting or gaining scores.  Note: Out is largely used in composition as a prefix, with the same significations that it has as a separate word; as outbound, outbreak, outbuilding, outcome, outdo, outdoor, outfield. See also the first Note under Over, adv. Day in, day out, from the beginning to the limit of each of several days; day by day; every day.  -- Out and out. (a) adv. Completely; wholly; openly. (b) adj. Without any reservation or disguise; absolute; as, an out and out villain. [As an adj. written also out-and-out.] -- Out at, Out in, Out on, etc., elliptical phrases, that to which out refers as a source, origin, etc., being omitted; as, out (of the house and) at the barn; out (of the house, road, fields, etc., and) in the woods. Three fishers went sailing out into the west, Out into the west, as the sun went down. C. Kingsley.  Note: In these lines after out may be understood, "of the harbor," "from the shore," "of sight," or some similar phrase. The complete construction is seen in the saying: "Out of the frying pan into the fire." -- Out from, a construction similar to out of (below). See Of and From. Out of, a phrase which may be considered either as composed of an adverb and a preposition, each having its appropriate office in the sentence, or as a compound preposition. Considered as a preposition, it denotes, with verbs of movement or action, from the interior of; beyond the limit: from; hence, origin, source, motive, departure, separation, loss, etc.; -- opposed to in or into; also with verbs of being, the state of being derived, removed, or separated from. Examples may be found in the phrases below, and also under Vocabulary words; as, out of breath; out of countenance. Out of cess, beyond measure, excessively. Shak.  -- Out of character, unbecoming; improper.  -- Out of conceit with, not pleased with. See under Conceit.  -- Out of date, not timely; unfashionable; antiquated.  -- Out of door, Out of doors, beyond the doors; from the house; in, or into, the open air; hence, figuratively, shut out; dismissed. See under Door, also, Out-of-door, Outdoor, Outdoors, in the Vocabulary. "He 's quality, and the question's out of door," Dryden.  -- Out of favor, disliked; under displeasure.  -- Out of frame, not in correct order or condition; irregular; disarranged. Latimer.  -- Out of hand, immediately; without delay or preparation. "Ananias . . . fell down and died out of hand." Latimer.  -- Out of harm's way, beyond the danger limit; in a safe place.  -- Out of joint, not in proper connection or adjustment; unhinged; disordered. "The time is out of joint." Shak.  -- Out of mind, not in mind; forgotten; also, beyond the limit of memory; as, time out of mind.  -- Out of one's head, beyond commanding one's mental powers; in a wandering state mentally; delirious. [Colloq.] -- Out of one's time, beyond one's period of minority or apprenticeship.  -- Out of order, not in proper order; disarranged; in confusion.  -- Out of place, not in the usual or proper place; hence, not proper or becoming.  -- Out of pocket, in a condition of having expended or lost more money than one has received.  -- Out of print, not in market, the edition printed being exhausted; -- said of books, pamphlets, etc.  -- Out of the question, beyond the limits or range of consideration; impossible to be favorably considered.  -- Out of reach, beyond one's reach; inaccessible.  -- Out of season, not in a proper season or time; untimely; inopportune.  -- Out of sorts, wanting certain things; unsatisfied; unwell; unhappy; cross. See under Sort, n.  -- Out of temper, not in good temper; irritated; angry.  -- Out of time, not in proper time; too soon, or too late.  -- Out of time, not in harmony; discordant; hence, not in an agreeing temper; fretful.  -- Out of twist, winding, or wind, not in warped condition; perfectly plain and smooth; -- said of surfaces.  -- Out of use, not in use; unfashionable; obsolete.  -- Out of the way. (a) On one side; hard to reach or find; secluded. (b) Improper; unusual; wrong.  -- Out of the woods, not in a place, or state, of obscurity or doubt; free from difficulty or perils; safe. [Colloq.] -- Out to out, from one extreme limit to another, including the whole length, breadth, or thickness; -- applied to measurements.  -- Out West, in or towards, the West; specifically, in some Western State or Territory. [U. S.] -- To come out, To cut out, To fall out, etc. See under Come, Cut, Fall, etc.  -- To put out of the way, to kill; to destroy.  -- Week in, week out. See Day in, day out (above). 

OUT:  A word or words omitted by the compositor in setting up copy; an omission. To make an out (Print.), to omit something, in setting or correcting type, which was in the copy. 

OUT:  To come or go out; to get out or away; to become public. "Truth will out." Shak. 

OUT:  Expressing impatience, anger, a desire to be rid of; -- with the force of command; go out; begone; away; off. Out, idle words, servants to shallow fools ! Shak. Out upon or on! equivalent to "shame upon!" "away with!" as, out upon you! 

OUTACT:  To do or beyond; to exceed in acting. [R.] He has made me heir to treasures Would make me outact a real window's whining. Otway. 

OUTAGAMIES:  See lst Fox, 7. 

OUTARGUE:  To surpass or conquer in argument. 

OUTBABBLE:  To utter foolishly or excessively; to surpass in babbling. [R.] Milton. 

OUTBALANCE:  To outweight; to exceed in weight or effect. Let dull Ajax bear away my right When all his days outbalance this one night. Dryden. 

OUTBAR:  To bar out. [R.] Spenser. 

OUTBEG:  To surpass in begging. [R.] 

OUTBID:  To exceed or surpass in bidding. Prevent the greedy, and outbid the bold. Pope. 

OUTBIDDER:  One who outbids. Johnson. 

OUTBLEAT:  To surpass in bleating. 

OUTBLOWN:  Inflated with wind. Dryden. 

OUTBLUSH:  To exceed in blushing; to surpass in rosy color. T. Shipman. 

OUTBOARD:  Beyond or outside of the lines of a vessel's bulwarks or hull; in a direction from the hull or from the keel; -- opposed to inboard; as, outboard rigging; swing the davits outboard. 

OUTBORN:  Foreign; not native. [R.] 

OUTBOUND:  Outward bound. Dryden. 

OUTBOUNDS:  The farthest or exterior bounds; extreme limits; boundaries. Spenser. 

OUTBOW:  To excel in bowing. Young. 

OUTBOWED:  Convex; curved outward. "The convex or outbowed side of a vessel." Bp. Hall. 

OUTBRAG:  To surpass in bragging; hence, to make appear inferior. Whose bare outbragg'd the web it seemed to wear. Shak. 

OUTBRAZEN:  To bear down with a brazen face; to surpass in impudence. T. Brown. 

OUTBREAK:  A bursting forth; eruption; insurrection. "Mobs and outbreaks." J. H. Newman. The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind. Shak. 

OUTBREAST:  To surpass in singing. See Breast, n., 6. [Obs.] 

OUTBREATHE:  To issue, as breath; to be breathed out; to exhale. Beau. & Fl. 

OUTBRIBE:  To surpass in bribing. 

OUTBRING:  To bring or bear out. 

OUTBUD:  To sprout. [Poetic] Spenser. 

OUTBUILD:  To exceed in building, or in durability of building. 

OUTBUILDING:  A building separate from, and subordinate to, the main house; an outhouse. 

OUTBURST:  A bursting forth. 

OUTCANT:  To surpass in canting. Pope. 

OUTCAST:  Cast out; degraded. "Outcast, rejected." Longfellow. 

OUTCASTING:  That which is cast out. [Obs.] 

OUTCEPT:  Except. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

OUTCHEAT:  To exceed in cheating. 

OUTCLIMB:  To climb bevond; to surpass in climbing. Davenant. 

OUTCOME:  That which comes out of, or follows from, something else; issue; result; consequence; upshot. "The logical outcome." H. Spenser. All true literature, all genuine poetry, is the direct outcome, the condensed essence, of actual life and thougth. J. C. Shairp. 

OUTCOMPASS:  To exceed the compass or limits of. Bacon. 

OUTCOURT:  An outer or exterior court. The skirts and outcourts of heaven. South. 

OUTCRAFTY:  To exceed in cunning. [R.] Shak. 

OUTCRIER:  One who cries out or proclaims; a herald or crier. 

OUTCROP:  To come out to the surface of the ground; -- said of strata. 

OUTDARE:  To surpass in daring; to overcome by courage; to brave. Shak. R. Browning. 

OUTDATED:  Being out of date; antiquated. [Obs.] Hammond. 

OUTDAZZLE:  To surpass in dazzing. 

OUTDO:  To go beyond in performance; to excel; to surpass. An imposture outdoes the original. L' Estrange. I grieve to be outdone by Gay. Swift. 

OUTDOOR:  Being, or done, in the open air; being or done outside of certain buildings, as poorhouses, hospitals, etc.; as, outdoor exercise; outdoor relief; outdoor patients. 

OUTDOORS:  Abread; out of the house; out of doors. 

OUTDRAW:  To draw out; to extract. [R.] "He must the teeth outdraw." Gower. 

OUTDREAM:  To pass, or escape, while dreaming. "To oultdream dangers." Beau. & Fl. 

OUTDRINK:  To exceed in drinking. 

OUTDURE:  To outlast. [Obs.] 

OUTDWELL:  To dwell or stay beyond. [Poetic] "He outdwells his hour." Shak. 

OUTDWELLER:  One who holds land in a parish, but lives elsewhere. [Eng.] 

OUTER:  Being on the outside; external; farthest or farther from the interior, from a given station, or from any space or position regarded as a center or starting place; -- opposed to inner; as, the outer wall; the outer court or gate; the outer stump in cricket; the outer world. Outer bar, in England, the body of junior (or utter) barristers; -- so called because in court they occupy a place beyond the space reserved for Queen's counsel. 

OUTER:  One who puts out, ousts, or expels; also, an ouster; dispossession. [R.] 

OUTERMOST:  Being on the extreme external part; farthest outward; as, the outermost row. Boyle. 

OUTFACE:  To face or look (one) out of countenance; to resist or bear down by bold looks or effrontery; to brave. Shak. Having outfaced all the world. South. 

OUTFAWN:  To exceed in fawning. 

OUTFEAST:  To exceed in feasting. 

OUTFEAT:  To surpass in feats. 

OUTFIELD:  The part of the field beyond the diamond, or infield. It is occupied by the fielders.  4. (Cricket)  The part of the field farthest from the batsman. 

OUTFIT:  A fitting out, or equipment, as of a ship for a voyage, or of a person for an expedition in an unoccupied region or residence in a foreign land; things required for equipment; the expense of, or allowance made for, equipment, as by the government of the United States to a diplomatic agent going abroad. 

OUTFITTER:  One who furnishes outfits for a voyage, a journey, or a business. 

OUTFLANK:  To go beyond, or be superior to, on the flank; to pass around or turn the flank or flanks of. 

OUTFLATTER:  To exceed in flattering. 

OUTFLING:  A gibe; a contemptuous remark. 

OUTFLOW:  A flowing out; efflux. 

OUTFLOW:  To flow out. Campbell. 

OUTFLY:  To surpass in flying; to fly beyond or faster than. Shak. Winged with fear outflies the wind. Waller. 

OUTFOOL:  To exceed in folly. [R.] Young. 

OUTFOOT:  To outrun or outwalk; hence, of a vessel, to outsail. [Colloq.] 

OUTFORM:  External appearance. [Obs.] 

OUTFROWN:  To frown down; to overbear by frowning. Shak. 

OUTGATE:  An outlet. [Obs.] Spenser. 

OUTGAZE:  To gaze beyond; to exceed in sharpness or persistence of seeing or of looking; hence, to stare out of countenance. 

OUTGENERAL:  To exceed in generalship; to gain advantage over by superior military skill or executive ability; to outmaneuver. Chesterfield. 

OUTGIVE:  To surpass in giving. Dryden. 

OUTGO:  That which goes out, or is paid out; outlay; expenditure; -- the opposite of Ant: income. Lowell. 

OUTGOER:  One who goes out or departs. 

OUTGOING:  Going out; departing; as, the outgoing administration; an outgoing steamer. 

OUTGROUND:  Ground situated at a distance from the house; outlying land. 

OUTGROWTH:  That which grows out of, or proceeds from, anything; an excrescence; an offshoot; hence, a result or consequence. 

OUTGUARD:  A guard or small body of troops at a distance from the main body of an army, to watch for the approach of an enemy; hence, anything for defense placed at a distance from the thing to be defended. 

OUTGUSH:  A pouring out; an outburst. A passionate outgush of emotion. Thackeray. 

OUTGUSH:  To gush out; to flow forth. 

OUTHAUL:  A rope used for hauling out a sail upon a spar; -- opposite of inhaul. 

OUTHER:  Other. [Obs.] Chaucer.  OUT-HEROD Out-Her"od, v. t.  To surpass (Herod) in violence or wickedness; to exceed in any vicious or offensive particular. "It out-Herods Herod." Shak. Out-Heroding the preposterous fashions of the times. Sir W. Scott. 

OUTHESS:  Outcry; alarm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OUTHIRE:  To hire out. [Obs.] Spenser. 

OUTHOUSE:  A small house or building at a little distance from the main house; an outbuilding. 

OUTJEST:  To surpass in jesting; to drive out, or away, by jesting. [R.] Shak. 

OUTJET:  That which jets out or projects from anything. [R.] H. Miller. 

OUTJUGGLE:  To surpass in juggling. 

OUTKEEPER:  An attachment to a surveyor's compass for keeping tally in chaining. 

OUTKNAVE:  To surpass in knavery. 

OUTLABOR:  To surpass in laboring. 

OUTLAND:  Foreign; outlandish. [Obs.] Strutt. 

OUTLANDER:  A foreigner. Wood. 

OUTLAST:  To exceed in duration; to survive; to endure longer than. Milton. 

OUTLAW:  A person excluded from the benefit of the law, or deprived of its protection. Blackstone. 

OUTLAY:  To lay out; to spread out; to display. [R.] Drayton. 

OUTLEAP:  To surpass in leaping. 

OUTLEAP:  A sally. [R.] Locke. 

OUTLET:  The place or opening by which anything is let out; a passage out; an exit; a vent. Receiving all, and having no outlet. Fuller. 

OUTLET:  To let out; to emit. [R.] Daniel. 

OUTLIE:  To exceed in lying. Bp. Hall. 

OUTLIER:  A part of a rock or stratum lying without, or beyond, the main body, from which it has been separated by denudation. 

OUTLIMB:  , An extreme member or part of a thing; a limb. [Obs.] Fuller. 

OUTLINEAR:  Of or pertaining to an outline; being in, or forming, an outline. Trench. 

OUTLIVE:  To live beyond, or longer than; to survive. They live too long who happiness outlive. Dryden. 

OUTLIVER:  One who outlives. [R.] 

OUTLOOSE:  A loosing from; an escape; an outlet; an evasion. [Obs.] That "whereas" gives me an outloose. Selden. 

OUTLOPE:  An excursion. [Obs.] Florio.  OUTLUSTER; OUTLUSTRE Out*lus"ter, Out*lus"tre, v. t.  To excel in brightness or luster. Shak. 

OUTLYING:  Lying or being at a distance from the central part, or the main body; being on, or beyond, the frontier; exterior; remote; detached.  OUTMANEUVER; OUTMANOEUVRE Out`ma*neu"ver, Out`ma*noeu"vre, v. t.  To surpass, or get an advantage of, in maneuvering; to outgeneral. 

OUTMANTLE:  To excel in mantling; hence, to excel in splendor, as of dress. [R.] And with poetic trappings grace thy prose, Till it outmantle all the pride of verse. Cowper. 

OUTMARCH:  To surpass in marching; to march faster than, or so as to leave behind. 

OUTMEASURE:  To exceed in measure or extent; to measure more than. Sir T. Browne. 

OUTMOST:  Farthest from the middle or interior; farthest outward; outermost. 

OUTMOUNT:  To mount above. [R.] 

OUTNESS:  The state or quality of being distanguishable from the perceiving mind, by being in space, and possessing marerial quality; externality; objectivity. The outness of the objects of sense. Sir W. Hamiltom. 

OUTNOISE:  To exceed in noise; to surpass in noisiness. [R.] Fuller. 

OUTNUMBER:  To exceed in number.  OUT-OF-DOOR Out`-of-door", a.  Being out of the house; being, or done, in the open air; outdoor; as, out-of-door exercise. See Out of door, under Out, adv. Amongst out-of-door delights. G. Eliot.  OUT-OF-THE-WAY Out`-of-the-way", a.  See under Out, adv. 

OUTPACE:  To outgo; to move faster than; to leave behind. [R.] Lamb. 

OUTPARAMOUR:  To exceed in the number of mistresses. [R.] Shak. 

OUTPARISH:  A parish lying without the walls of, or in a remote part of, a town. Graunt. 

OUTPART:  An outlying part. [R.] Ayliffe. 

OUTPASS:  To pass beyond; to exceed in progress. 

OUTPASSION:  To exceed in passion.  OUT-PATIENT Out"-pa`tient, n.  A patient who is outside a hospital, but receives medical aid from it. 

OUTPEER:  To excel. [R.] Shak. 

OUTPENSION:  To grant an outpension to. 

OUTPENSION:  A public pension granted to one not required to live in a charitable institution. -- Out"pen`sion*er, n. 

OUTPLAY:  To excel or defeat in a game; to play better than; as, to be outplayed in tennis or ball. 

OUTPOISE:  To outweigh. Howell. 

OUTPORT:  A harbor or port at some distance from the chief town or seat of trade. Macaulay. 

OUTPOUR:  To pour out. Milton. 

OUTPOUR:  A flowing out; a free discharge. 

OUTPOWER:  To excel in power; to overpover. [Obs.] Fuller. 

OUTPRAY:  To exceed or excel in prayer. 

OUTPREACH:  To surpass in preaching. And for a villain's quick conversion A pillory can outpreach a parson. Trumbull. 

OUTPRIZE:  To prize beyong value, or in excess; to exceed in value. [Obs.] Shak. 

OUTPUT:  That which is thrown out as products of the metabolic activity of the body; the egesta other than the fæces. See Income.  Note: The output consists of: (a) The respiratory products of the lungs, skin, and alimentary canal, consisting chiefly of carbonic acid and water with small quantities of hydrogen and carbureted hydrogen. (b) Perspiration, consisting chiefly of water and salts. (c) The urine, which is assumed to contain all the nitrogen truly excreted by the body, besides a large quantity of saline matters and water. Foster. 

OUTQUENCH:  To quench entirely; to extinguish. "The candlelight outquenched." Spenser. 

OUTRAGE:  To rage in excess of. [R.] Young. 

OUTRAGE:  To be guilty of an outrage; to act outrageously. 

OUTRAGEOUS:  Of the nature of an outrage; exceeding the limits of right, reason, or decency; involving or doing an outrage; furious; violent; atrocious. "Outrageous weeping." Chaucer. "The most outrageous villainies." Sir P. Sidney. "The vile, outrageous crimes." Shak. "Outrageous panegyric." Dryden.  Syn.  -- Violent; furious; exorbitant; excessive; atrocious; monstrous; wanton; nefarious; heinous.  -- Out*ra"geous*ly, adv.  -- Out*ra"geous*ness, n. 

OUTRANCE:  The utmost or last extremity. Combat à outrance, a fight to the end, or to the death. 

OUTRANK:  To exceed in rank; hence, to take precedence of. 

OUTRAY:  To outshine. [R.] Skelton. 

OUTRAY:  To spread out in array. [Obs.] And now they outray to your fleet. Chapman. 

OUTRAYE:  See Outrage, v. i. [Obs.] This warn I you, that ye not suddenly Out of yourself for no woe should outraye. Chaucer. 

OUTRAZE:  To obliterate. [Obs.] Sandys. 

OUTRE:  Being out of the common course or limits; extravagant; bizarre. 

OUTREACH:  To reach beyond. 

OUTREASON:  To excel or surpass in reasoning; to reason better than. South. 

OUTRECKON:  To exceed in reckoning or computation. Bp. Pearson. 

OUTRECUIDANCE:  Excessive presumption. [R.] B. Jonson. 

OUTREDE:  To surpass in giving rede, or counsel. [Obs.] See Atrede. Chaucer. 

OUTREIGN:  To go beyond in reigning; to reign through the whole of, or longer than. [R.] Spenser. 

OUTRIDE:  To surpass in speed of riding; to ride beyond or faster than. Shak. 

OUTRING:  To excel in volume of ringing sound; to ring louder than. 

OUTRIVAL:  To surpass in a rivalry. 

OUTRIVE:  To river; to sever. [Obs.] Fairfax.  OUTROAD; OUTRODE Out"road`, Out"rode`, n.  An excursion. [Obs.] "Outrodes by the ways of Judea." Macc. xv. 41 (Geneva Bible). 

OUTROAR:  To exceed in roaring. 

OUTROMANCE:  To exceed in romantic character. [R.] Fuller. 

OUTROOM:  An outer room. [R.] Fuller. 

OUTROOT:  To eradicate; to extirpate. 

OUTRUN:  To exceed, or leave behind, in running; to run faster than; to outstrip; to go beyond. Your zeal outruns my wishes. Sir W. Scott. The other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulcher. Jhon xx. 4. 

OUTRUNNER:  An offshoot; a branch. [R.] "Some outrunner of the river." Lauson. 

OUTRUSH:  To rush out; to issue, or ru Garth. 

OUTSAIL:  To excel, or to leave behind, in sailing; to sail faster than. Beau. & Fl. 

OUTSCENT:  To exceed in odor. Fuller. 

OUTSCOLD:  To exceed in scolding. Shak. 

OUTSCORN:  To confront, or subdue, with greater scorn. Shak. 

OUTSCOURING:  That which is scoured out o Buckland. 

OUTSCOUT:  To overpower by disdain; to outface. [Obs.] Marston. 

OUTSEE:  To see beyond; to excel in cer 

OUTSENTRY:  A sentry who guards the entrance or approach to a place; an outguard. 

OUTSET:  A setting out, starting, or beginning. "The outset of a political journey." Burke. Giving a proper direction to this outset of life. J. Hawes. 

OUTSETTLER:  One who settles at a distance, or away, from others. 

OUTSHINE:  To shine forth. "Bright, outshining beams." Shak. 

OUTSHINE:  To excel in splendor. A throne of royal state, which far Outshone the wealth of Ormus and of Ind. Milton. 

OUTSHOOT:  To exceed or excel in shooting; to shoot beyond. Bacon. Men are resolved never to outshoot their forefathers' mark. Norris. 

OUTSHUT:  To shut out. [R.] Donne. 

OUTSIDE:  or prep. On or to the outside (of); without; on the exterior; as, to ride outside the coach; he stayed outside. 

OUTSING:  To surpass in singing. 

OUTSIT:  To remain sitting, or in session, longer than, or beyond the time of; to outstay. 

OUTSKIRT:  A part remote from the center; outer edge; border; -- usually in the plural; as, the outskirts of a town. Wordsworth. The outskirts of his march of mystery. Keble. 

OUTSLEEP:  To exceed in sleeping. Shak. 

OUTSLIDE:  To slide outward, onward, or forward; to advance by sliding. [Poetic] At last our grating keels outslide. Whittier. 

OUTSOAR:  To soar beyond or above. 

OUTSOLE:  The outside sole of a boot or shoe. 

OUTSOUND:  To surpass in sounding. 

OUTSPAN:  To unyoke or disengage, as oxen from a wagon. [S. Africa] 

OUTSPARKLE:  To exceed in sparkling. 

OUTSPEED:  To excel in speed. Outspeed the realized miracles of steam. Talfourd. 

OUTSPEND:  Outlay; expenditure. [R.] A mere outspend of savageness. I. Taylor. 

OUTSPIN:  To spin out; to finish. 

OUTSPOKEN:  Speaking, or spoken, freely, openly, or boldly; as, an outspoken man; an outspoken rebuke.  -- Out*spo"ken*ness, n. 

OUTSPORT:  To exceed in sporting. [R.] "Not to outsport discretion." Shak. 

OUTSPREAD:  To spread out; to expand; -- usually as a past part. or adj. 

OUTSPRING:  To spring out; to issue. 

OUTSTAND:  To stand out, or project, from a surface or mass; hence, to remain standing out. 

OUTSTANDING:  That stands out; undischarged; uncollected; not paid; as, outstanding obligations. Revenues . . . as well outstanding as collected. A. Hamilton. 

OUTSTARE:  To excel or overcome in staring; to face down. I would outstare the sternest eyes that look. Shak. 

OUTSTART:  To start out or up. Chaucer. 

OUTSTAY:  To stay beyond or longer than. She concluded to outstay him. Mad. D' Arblay. 

OUTSTEP:  To exceed in stepping. 

OUTSTORM:  To exceed in storming. Insults the tempest and outstorms the skies. J. Barlow. 

OUTSTREET:  A street remote from the center of a town. Johnson. 

OUTSTRETCH:  To stretch out. Milton. 

OUTSTRIDE:  To surpass in striding. 

OUTSTRIKE:  To strike out; to strike faster than. Shak. 

OUTSTRIP:  To go faster than; to outrun; to advance beyond; to leave behing. Appetites which . . . had outstripped the hours. Southey. He still outstript me in the race. Tennyson. 

OUTSUFFER:  To exceed in suffering. 

OUTSWEAR:  To exceed in swearing. 

OUTSWEETEN:  To surpass in sweetness. [R.] Shak. 

OUTTAKE:  Except. [Obs.] R. of Brunne. 

OUTTAKEN:  or prep. Excepted; save. [Obs.] Wyclif. Chaucer. 

OUTTALK:  To overpower by talking; to exceed in talking; to talk down. Shak. 

OUTTELL:  To surpass in telling, counting, or reckoning. "I have outtold the clock." Beau. & Fl. 

OUTTERM:  An external or superficial thing; outward manner; superficial remark, etc. [Obs.] Not to bear cold forms, nor men's outterms. B. Jonson. 

OUTTOIL:  To exceed in toiling. 

OUTTONGUE:  To silence by talk, clamor, or noise. [R.] Shak. 

OUTTOP:  To overtop. [Obs.] 

OUTTRAVEL:  To exceed in speed o Mad. D' Arblay. 

OUTTWINE:  To disentangle. [Obs.] 

OUTVALUE:  To exceed in value. Boyle. 

OUTVENOM:  To exceed in venom. 

OUTVIE:  To exceed in vying. Dryden. 

OUTVILLAIN:  To exceed in villainy. 

OUTVOICE:  To exceed in noise. Shak. 

OUTVOTE:  To exceed in the number of votes given; to defeat by votes. South. 

OUTWALK:  To excel in walking; to leave behind in walking. B. Jonson. 

OUTWALL:  The exterior wall; the outside surface, or appearance. Shak.  OUTWARD; OUTWARDS Out"ward, Out"wards, adv. Etym: [AS. . See Out, and -ward, -wards.]  From the interior part; in a direction from the interior toward the exterior; out; to the outside; beyond; off; away; as, a ship bound outward. The wrong side may be turned outward. Shak. Light falling on them is not reflected outwards. Sir I. Newton. Outward bound, bound in an outward direction or to foreign parts; -- said especially of vessels, and opposed to homeward bound. 

OUTWARD:  External form; exterior. [R.] So fair an outward and such stuff within. Shak. 

OUTWARDS:  See Outward, adv. 

OUTWATCH:  To exceed in watching. 

OUTWAY:  A way out; exit. [R.] In divers streets and outways multiplied. P. Fletcher. 

OUTWEARY:  To weary out. Cowley. 

OUTWEED:  To weed out. [Obs.] 

OUTWEEP:  To exceed in weeping. 

OUTWEIGH:  To exceed in weight or value. 

OUTWELL:  To pour out. [Obs.] Spenser. 

OUTWELL:  To issue forth. Thomson. 

OUTWENT:  imp. of Outgo. 

OUTWHORE:  To exceed in lewdness. 

OUTWIN:  To win a way out of. [Obs.] 

OUTWIND:  To extricate by winding; to unloose. [R.] Spenser. Dr. H. More. 

OUTWING:  To surpass, exceed, or outstrip in flying. Garth. 

OUTWIT:  To surpass in wisdom, esp. in cunning; to defeat or overreach by superior craft. They did so much outwit and outwealth us ! Gauden. 

OUTWIT:  The faculty of acquiring wesdom by observation and experience, or the wisdom so acquired; -- opposed to inwit. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

OUTWOE:  To exceed in woe. [Obs.] 

OUTWORK:  To exceed in working; to work more or faster than. 

OUTWORK:  A minor defense constructed beyond the main body of a work, as a ravelin, lunette, hornwork, etc. Wilhelm. 

OUTWORTH:  To exceed in worth. [R.] 

OUTWREST:  To extort; to draw from or forth by violence. [Obs.] Spenser. 

OUTWRITE:  To exceed or excel in writing. 

OUTZANY:  To exceed in buffoonery. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

OUVAROVITE:  Chrome garnet. 

OUZE:  See Ooze. [Obs.] 

OUZEL:  Same as Ousel. The mellow ouzel fluted in the elm. Tennyson. 

OVA:  See Ovum. 

OVAL:  Broadly elliptical. Oval chuck (Mech.), a lathe chuck so constructed that work attached to it, and cut by the turning tool in the usual manner, becomes of an oval form. 

OVAL:  A body or figure in the shape of an egg, or popularly, of an ellipse. Cassinian oval (Geom.), the locus of a point the product of whose distances from two fixed points is constant; -- so called from Cassini, who first investigated the curve. Thus, in the diagram, if P moves so that P A.P B is constant, the point P describes a Cassinian oval. The locus may consist of a single closed line, as shown by the dotted line, or of two equal ovals about the points A and B.  OVALBUMIN; OVALBUMEN O`val*bu"min, O`val*bu"men, n. Etym: [Ovum + albumin.] (Physiol. Chem.)  The albumin from white of eggs; egg albumin; -- in distinction from serum albumin. See Albumin. 

OVALIFORM:  Having the form of an egg; having a figure such that any section in the direction of the shorter diameter will be circular, and any in the direction of the longer diameter will be oval. 

OVALLY:  In an oval form. 

OVANT:  Exultant. [Obs.] Holland.  OVARIAN; OVARIAL O*va"ri*an, O*va"ri*al, a.  Of or pertaining to an ovary. 

OVARIOLE:  One of the tubes of which the ovaries of most insects are composed. 

OVARIOTOMIST:  One who performs, or is skilled in, ovariotomy. 

OVARIOTOMY:  The operation of removing one or both of the ovaries; oöphorectomy. 

OVARIOUS:  Consisting of eggs; as, ovarious food. [R.] Thomson. 

OVARITIS:  Inflammation of the ovaries. 

OVARIUM:  An ovary. See Ovary. 

OVARY:  That part of the pistil which contains the seed, and in most flowering plants develops into the fruit. See Illust. of Flower.  2. (Zoöl. & Anat.)  The essential female reproductive organ in which the ova are produced. See Illust. of Discophora. 

OVATE:  Having the shape of an egg, or of the longitudinal sectior of an egg, with the broader end basal. Gray.  OVATE-ACUMINATE O"vate-a*cu"mi*nate, a.  Having an ovate form, but narrowed at the end into a slender point.  OVATE-CYLINDRACEOUS O"vate-cyl`in*dra"ceous, a.  Having a form intermediate between ovate and cylindraceous. 

OVATED:  Ovate.  OVATE-LANCEOLATE O"vate-lan"ce*o*late, a.  Having a form intermediate between ovate and lanceolate.  OVATE-OBLONG O"vate-ob"long, a.  Oblong. with one end narrower than the other; ovato-oblong.  OVATE-ROTUNDATE O"vate-ro*tund"ate, a.  Having a form intermediate between that of an egg and a sphere; roundly ovate.  OVATE-SUBULATE O"vate-su"bu*late, a.  Having an ovate form, but with a subulate tip or extremity. 

OVATION:  A lesser kind of triumph allowed to a commander for an easy, bloodless victory, or a victory over slaves.  2. Hence: An expression of popular homage; the tribute of the multitude to a public favorite. To rain an April of ovation round Their statues. Tennyson.  OVATO-ACUMINATE O*va"to-a*cu"mi*nate, a.  Same as Ovate-acuminate.  OVATO-CYLINDRACEOUS O*va"to-cyl`in*dra"ceous, a.  Same as Ovate-cylindraceous.  OVATO-OBLONG O*va"to-ob"long, a.  Same as Ovate-oblong.  OVATO-ROTUNDATE O*va"to-ro*tund"ate, a.  Same as Ovate-rotundate. 

OVEN:  A place arched over with brick or stonework, and used for baking, heating, or drying; hence, any structure, whether fixed or portable, which may be heated for baking, drying, etc.; esp., now, a chamber in a stove, used for baking or roasting. 

OVER:  Upper; covering; higher; superior; also, excessive; too much or too great; -- chiefly used in composition; as, overshoes, overcoat, over-garment, overlord, overwork, overhaste. 

OVER:  A certain number of balls (usually four) delivered successively from behind ine wicket, after which the ball is bowled from behing the other wicket as many times, the fielders changing places. 

OVERABOUND:  To be exceedingly plenty or superabundant. Pope. 

OVERACT:  To act more than is necessary; to go to excess in action. B. Jonson. 

OVERACTION:  Per 

OVERAFFECT:  To affect or care for unduly. [Obs.] Milton. 

OVERAGITATE:  To agitate or discuss beyond what is expedient. Bp. Hall. 

OVERALL:  Everywhere. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OVERANXIETY:  The state of being overanxious; excessive anxiety. 

OVERANXIOUS:  Anxious in an excessive or needless degree.  -- O"ver*anx"ious*ly, adv. 

OVERARCH:  To make or place an arch over; to hang over like an arch. "Brown with o'erarching shades." Pope.  OVER-ARM O"ver-arm`, a. (Cricket, etc.)  Done (as bowling or pitching) with the arm raised above the shoulder. See Overhard. "An over-arm with a round-arm bowler." R. A. Proctor. 

OVERAWE:  To awe exceedingly; to subjugate or restrain by awe or great fear. The king was present in person to overlook the magistrates, and overawe these subjects with the terror of his sword. Spenser. 

OVERAWFUL:  Awful, or reverential, in an excessive degree. [R.] Milton. 

OVERBALANCE:  Excess of weight or value; something more than an equivalent; as, an overbalance of exports. J. Edwards. 

OVERBARREN:  Excessively barren. 

OVERBATTLE:  Excessively fertile; bearing rank or noxious growths. [Obs.] "Overbattle grounds." Hooker. 

OVERBEAR:  To bear fruit or offspring to excess; to be too prolific. 

OVERBEND:  To bend to excess. 

OVERBEND:  To bend over. [R.] 

OVERBID:  To bid or offer beyond, or in excess of. Dryden. 

OVERBIDE:  To outlive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OVERBLOW:  To force so much wind into a pipe that it produces an overtone, or a note higher than the natural note; thus, the upper octaves of a flute are produced by overblowing. 

OVERBLOW:  To blow away; to dissipate by wind, or as by wind. When this cloud of sorrow's overblown. Waller. 

OVERBOARD:  Over the side of a ship; hence, from on board of a ship, into the water; as, to fall overboard. To throw overboard, to discard; to abandon, as a dependent or friend. 

OVERBOIL:  To boil over or unduly. Nor is discontent to keep the mind Deep in its fountain, lest it overboil In the hot throng. Byron. 

OVERBOLD:  Excessively or presumptuously bold; impudent. Shak.  -- O"ver*bold"ly, adv. 

OVERBOOKISH:  Excessively bookish. 

OVERBOUNTEOUS:  Bounteous to excess. 

OVERBOW:  To bend or bow over; to bend in a contrary direction. [Obs.] Fuller. 

OVERBREED:  To breed to excess. 

OVERBRIM:  To flow over the brim; to be so full as to overflow. [R.] 

OVERBROW:  To hang over like a brow; to impend over. [Poetic] Longfellow. Did with a huge projection overbrow Large space beneath. Wordsworth. 

OVERBUILT:  Having too many buildings; as, an overbuilt part of a town. 

OVERBULK:  To oppress by bulk; to overtower. [Obs. & R.] Shak. 

OVERBURDEN:  To load with too great weight or too much care, etc. Sir P. Sidney. 

OVERBURDEN:  The waste which overlies good stone in a quarry. Raymond. 

OVERBURDENSOME:  Too burdensome. 

OVERBURN:  To burn too much; to be overzealous.  OVER-BUSY O"ver-bus"y, a.  Too busy; officious. 

OVERCANOPY:  To cover as with a canopy. Shak. 

OVERCAPABLE:  Too capable. [R.] Overcapable of such pleasing errors. Hooker. 

OVERCARE:  Excessive care. Dryden. 

OVERCAREFUL:  Too careful. Shak. 

OVERCARKING:  Too anxious; too full of care. [Archaic] Fuller. 

OVERCARRY:  To carry too far; to carry beyond the proper point. Hayward. 

OVERCAST:  To take long, loose stitches over (the raw edges of a seam) to prevent raveling. 

OVERCATCH:  To overtake. [Obs.] 

OVERCAUTIOUS:  Too cautious; cautious or prudent to excess.  -- O"ver*cau"tious*ly, adv.  -- O"ver*cau"tiou*ness, n. 

OVERCHANGE:  Too much or too frequent change; fickleness. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 

OVERCHARGE:  To make excessive charges. 

OVERCLIMB:  To climb over. Surrey. 

OVERCLOUD:  To cover or overspread with clouds; to becloud; to overcast. 

OVERCLOY:  To fill beyond satiety. Shak. 

OVERCOAT:  A coat worn over the other clothing; a greatcoat; a topcoat. 

OVERCOLD:  Cold to excess. Wiseman. 

OVERCOLOR:  To color too highly. 

OVERCOME:  To gain the superiority; to be victorious. Rev. iii. 21. 

OVERCOMER:  One who overcomes. 

OVERCOMING:  Conquering; subduing.  -- O`ver*com"ing*ly, adv. 

OVERCONFIDENCE:  Excessive confidence; too great reliance or trust. 

OVERCONFIDENT:  Confident to excess.  -- O"ver*con"fi*dent*ly, adv. 

OVERCOSTLY:  Too costly. Milton. 

OVERCOUNT:  To rate too high; to outnumber. Shak. 

OVERCOVER:  To cover up. Shak. 

OVERCREDULOUS:  Too credulous. 

OVERCROW:  To crow, exult, or boast, over; to overpower. Spenser. Shak. 

OVERCROWD:  To crowd too much. 

OVERCUNNING:  Exceedingly or excessively cunning. 

OVERCURIOUS:  Too curious. 

OVERDARE:  To dare too much or rashly; to be too daring. 

OVERDATE:  To date later than the true or proper period. Milton. 

OVERDEAL:  The excess. [Obs.] The overdeal in the price will be double. Holland. 

OVERDELICATE:  Too delicate. 

OVERDELIGHTED:  Delighted beyond measure. 

OVERDEVELOP:  To develop excessively; specif. (Photog.),  to subject (a plate or film) too long to the developing process. 

OVERDIGHT:  Covered over. [Obs.] Spenser. 

OVERDO:  To labor too hard; to do too much. 

OVERDOER:  One who overdoes. 

OVERDOSE:  To dose to excess; to give an overdose, or too many doses, to. 

OVERDOSE:  Too great a dose; an excessive dose. 

OVERDRAFT:  The act of overdrawing; also, the amount or sum overdrawn. 

OVERDRAW:  To make drafts upon or against, in excess of the proper amount or limit. 

OVERDRESS:  To dress or adorn to excess; to dress too much. Pope. 

OVERDRINK:  To drink to excess. 

OVERDRIVE:  To drive too hard, or far, or beyond strength. 

OVERDROWN:  To wet or drench to excess. [Obs.] W. Browne. 

OVERDRY:  To dry too much. Burton. 

OVERDUE:  Due and more than due; delayed beyond the proper time of arrival or payment, etc.; as, an overdue vessel; an overdue note. 

OVERDYE:  To dye with excess of color; to put one color over (another). Shak. 

OVEREAGER:  Too eager; too impatient.  -- O`ver*ea"ger*ly, adv.  -- O"ver*ea"ger*ness, n. 

OVEREARNEST:  Too earnest.  -- O"ver*ear"nest*ly, adv.  -- O"ver*ear"nest*ness, n. 

OVERELEGANT:  Too elegant. Johnson. 

OVEREMPTY:  To make too empty; to exhaust. [R.] Carew. 

OVEREST:  Uppermost; outermost. Full threadbare was his overeste courtepy. Chaucer. 

OVERESTIMATE:  To estimate too highly; to overvalue. 

OVERESTIMATE:  An estimate that is too high; as, an overestimate of the vote. 

OVEREXCITE:  To excite too much. 

OVEREXCITEMENT:  Excess of excitement; the state of being overexcited. 

OVEREXERT:  To exert too much. 

OVEREXERTION:  Excessive exertion. 

OVEREXPOSE:  To expose excessively; specif. (Photog.),  to subject (a plate or film) too long to the actinic action of the light used in producing a picture. -- O`ver*ex*po"sure (#), n. 

OVEREXQUISITE:  Too exquisite; too exact or nice; too careful. 

OVERFALL:  A turbulent surface of water, caused by strong currents setting over submerged ridges; also, a dangerous submerged ridge or shoal. 

OVERFATIGUE:  Excessive fatigue. 

OVERFATIGUE:  To fatigue to excess; to tire out. 

OVERFEED:  To feed to excess; to surfeit. 

OVERFIERCE:  Excessively fierce. 

OVERFILL:  To fill to excess; to surcharge. 

OVERFISH:  To fish to excess. 

OVERFLOAT:  To overflow. [R.] Dryden. 

OVERFLOWING:  An overflow; that which overflows; exuberance; copiousness. He was ready to bestow the overflowings of his full mind on anybody who would start a subject. Macaulay. 

OVERFLOWINGLY:  In great abundance; exuberantly. Boyle. 

OVERFLUSH:  To flush to excess. [R.] 

OVERFLUTTER:  To flutter over. 

OVERFLUX:  Overflow; exuberance. [R.] 

OVERFLY:  To cross or pass over by flight. Byron. 

OVERFOND:  , Milton.  -- O"ver*fond"ly, adv.  -- O"ver*fond"ness, n. 

OVERFORCE:  Excessive force; violence. 

OVERFORWARD:  Forward to excess; too forward.  -- O"ver*for"ward*ness, n. 

OVERFREE:  Free to excess; too liberal; too familiar.  -- O"ver*free"ly, adv. 

OVERFREIGHT:  To put too much freight in or upon; to load too full, or too heavily; to overload. 

OVERFREQUENT:  Too frequent. 

OVERFRIEZE:  To cover with a frieze, or as with a frieze. E. Hall. 

OVERFRONT:  To confront; to oppose; to withstand. [Obs.] Milton. 

OVERFRUITFUL:  Too fruitful. 

OVERFULL:  Too full; filled to overflowing; excessively full; surfeited. Shak. 

OVERFULLNESS:  The state of being excessively or abnormally full, so as to cause overflow, distention, or congestion; excess of fullness; surfeit.  OVER-GARMENT O"ver-gar`ment, n.  An outer garment. 

OVERGARRISON:  To garrison to excess. 

OVERGAZE:  To gaze; to overlook. [Poetic] "Earth's o'ergazing mountains." Byron. 

OVERGILD:  To gild over; to varnish. 

OVERGIRD:  To gird too closely. [R.] 

OVERGIVE:  To give over; to surrender; to yield. [Obs.] Spenser. 

OVERGLAD:  Excessively or unduly glad. 

OVERGLANCE:  To glance over. 

OVERGLIDE:  To glide over. Wyatt. 

OVERGLOOM:  To spread gloom over; to make gloomy; to overshadow. [R.] Overgloomed by memories of sorrow. De Quincey. 

OVERGORGE:  To gorge to excess. 

OVERGRACE:  To grace or honor exceedingly or beyond desert. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 

OVERGRASSED:  Overstocked, or overgrown, or covered, with grass. [Obs.] Spenser. 

OVERGREAT:  Too great. 

OVERGREATNESS:  Excessive greatness. 

OVERGREEDY:  Excessively greedy. 

OVERGROSS:  Too gross. 

OVERGROUND:  Situated over or above ground; as, the overground portion of a plant. 

OVERGROW:  To grow beyond the fit or natural size; as, a huge, overgrown ox. L'Estrange. 

OVERGROWTH:  Excessive growth. 

OVERHALE:  See Overhaul. [Obs.] 

OVERHALL:  See Overhaul. [Obs.] 

OVERHAND:  The upper hand; advantage; superiority; mastery. He had gotten thereby a great overhand on me. Sir T. More. 

OVERHAND:  Over and over; -- applied to a style of sewing, or to a seam, in which two edges, usually selvedges, are sewed together by passing each stitch over both.  2. (Baseball, Cricket, etc.)  Done (as pitching or bowling) with the hand higher than the elbow, or the arm above, or higher than, the shoulder. Overhand knot. See Illustration of Knot. 

OVERHAND:  In an overhand manner or style. 

OVERHANDLE:  To handle, or use, too much; to mention too often. Shak. 

OVERHANG:  To jut over. Milton. 

OVERHANG:  The portion of the bow or stem of a vessel that projects over the water beyond the water line.  4. (Mach.)  The projection of a part beyond another part that is directly below it, or beyond a part by which it is supported; as, the overhang of a shaft; i. e., its projection beyond its bearing. 

OVERHAPPY:  Exceedingly happy. Shak. 

OVERHARDEN:  To harden too much; to make too hard. Boyle. 

OVERHARDY:  Too hardy; overbold. 

OVERHASTE:  Too great haste. 

OVERHASTY:  Too hasty; precipitate; rash.  -- O"ver*has"ti*ly, adv.  -- O`ver*has"ti*ness, n. 

OVERHAUL:  To gain upon in a chase; to overtake. To overhaul a tackle, to pull on the leading parts so as to separate the blocks.  -- To overhaul running rigging, to keep it clear, and see that no hitch occurs.  OVERHAUL; OVERHAULING O"ver*haul`, O`ver*haul"ing, n.  A strict examination with a view to correction or repairs. 

OVERHEAD:  Aloft; above; in or attached to the ceiling or roof; in the story or upon the floor above; in the zenith. While overhead the moon Sits arbitress. Milton.  Note: Also used adjectively; as, an overhead crane, gear, etc. Overhead engine, a vertical steam engine in which the cylinder stands above the crank.  -- Overhead work, a general term in manufactories for countershafting and gearing, when overhead.  OVERHEAD CHARGES; OVERHEAD EXPENSES O"ver*head" charges, expenses, etc. (Accounting)  Those general charges or expenses in any business which cannot be charged up as belonging exclusively to any particular part of the work or product, as where different kinds of goods are made, or where there are different departments in a business; -- called also fixed, establishment, or (in a manufacturing business) administration, selling, and distribution, charges, etc. 

OVERHEAT:  To heat to excess; to superheat. Cowper. 

OVERHEAVY:  Excessively heavy. 

OVERHELE:  To hele or cover over. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

OVERHENT:  To overtake. [Obs.] So forth he went and soon them overhent. Spenser. 

OVERHIGH:  Too high. 

OVERHIGHLY:  Too highly; too greatly. 

OVERHIP:  To pass over by, or as by a hop; to skip over; hence, to overpass. [Obs.] "When the time is overhipt." Holland. 

OVERHOLD:  To hold or value too highly; to estimate at too dear a rate. [Obs.] Shak. 

OVERINFLUENCE:  To influence in an excessive degree; to have undue influence over. 

OVERINFORM:  To inform, fill, or animate, excessively. [R.] Johnson. 

OVERISSUE:  An excessive issue; an issue, as of notes or bonds, exceeding the limit of capital, credit, or authority. An overissue of government paper. Brougham. 

OVERISSUE:  To issue in excess. 

OVERJEALOUS:  Excessively jealous; too jealous. 

OVERJOY:  To make excessively joyful; to gratify extremely. 

OVERJOY:  Excessive joy; transport. 

OVERJUMP:  To jump over; hence, to omit; to ignore. Marston. 

OVERKING:  A king who has sovereignty over inferior kings or ruling princes. J. R. Green. 

OVERKNOWING:  Too knowing or too cunning. 

OVERLADE:  To load with too great a cargo; to overburden; to overload. Spenser. 

OVERLAND:  Being, or accomplished, over the land, instead of by sea; as, an overland journey. 

OVERLAND:  By, upon, or across, land. 

OVERLANDER:  One who travels over lands or countries; one who travels overland. 

OVERLANGUAGED:  Employing too many words; diffuse. Lowell. 

OVERLAP:  To lap over; to lap. 

OVERLAP:  An extension of geological beds above and beyond others, as in a conformable series of beds, when the upper beds extend over a wider space than the lower, either in one or in all directions. 

OVERLARGE:  Too large; too great. 

OVERLARGENESS:  Excess of size or bulk. 

OVERLASH:  To drive on rashly; to go to excess; hence, to exaggerate; to boast. [Obs.] Barrow. 

OVERLASHING:  Excess; exaggeration. [Obs.] 

OVERLATE:  Too late; exceedingly late. 

OVERLAVE:  To lave or bathe over. 

OVERLAVISH:  Lavish to excess. 

OVERLAY:  To put an overlay on. 

OVERLAY:  A piece of paper pasted upon the tympan sheet to improve the impression by making it stronger at a particular place. 

OVERLAYER:  One who overlays; that with which anything is overlaid. 

OVERLAYING:  A superficial covering; a coating. 

OVERLEAD:  To domineer over; to affront; to treat with indignity. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OVERLEAP:  To leap over or across; hence, to omit; to ignore. "Let me o'erleap that custom." Shak. 

OVERLEARNED:  Too learned.  -- O"ver*learn"ed, adv.  -- O"ver*learn"ed*ness, n. 

OVERLEATHER:  Upper leather. Shak. 

OVERLEAVEN:  To leaven too much; hence, to change excessively; to spoil. [Obs.] 

OVERLIBERAL:  Too liberal. 

OVERLIBERALLY:  In an overliberal manner. 

OVERLICK:  To lick over. 

OVERLIE:  To lie over or upon; specifically, to suffocate by lying upon; as, to overlie an infant. Quain. A woman by negligence overlieth her child in her sleeping. Chaucer. 

OVERLIGHT:  Too strong a light. Bacon. 

OVERLIGHT:  Too light or frivolous; giddy. 

OVERLINESS:  The quality or state of being overly; carelessness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

OVERLINGER:  To cause to linger; to detain too long. [Obs.] Fuller. 

OVERLIP:  The upper lip. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OVERLIVE:  To outlive. Sir P. Sidney. The culture of Northumbria overlived the term of its political supermacy. Earle. 

OVERLIVE:  To live too long, too luxuriously, or too actively. Milton. "Overlived in this close London life." Mrs. Browning. 

OVERLIVER:  A survivor. Bacon. 

OVERLOAD:  To load or fill to excess; to load too heavily. 

OVERLOAD:  An excessive load; the excess beyond a proper load. 

OVERLOGICAL:  Excessively logical; adhering too closely to the forms or rules of logic. 

OVERLONG:  Too long. Shak. 

OVERLOOKER:  One who overlooks. 

OVERLOOP:  See Orlop. [Obs.] 

OVERLORD:  One who is lord over another or others; a superior lord; a master. Freeman. 

OVERLORDSHIP:  Lordship or supremacy of a person or a people over others. J. R. Green. 

OVERLOUD:  Too loud; noisy. 

OVERLOVE:  To love to excess. 

OVERLUSCIOUS:  Excessively luscious. 

OVERLUSTY:  Too lusty, or lively. Shak. 

OVERLY:  In an overly manner. [Archaic] 

OVERLYING:  Lying over or upon something; as, overlying rocks. 

OVERMAGNIFY:  To magnify too much. Bp. Hall. 

OVERMALAPERT:  Excessively malapert or impudent. [Obs.] Prynne. 

OVERMANNER:  In an excessive manner; excessively. [Obs.] Wiclif. 

OVERMARCH:  To march too far, or too much; to exhaust by marching. Baker. 

OVERMAST:  To furnish (a vessel) with too long or too heavy a mast or masts. 

OVERMASTER:  To overpower; to subdue; to vanquish; to govern. 

OVERMATCH:  One superior in power; also, an unequal match; a contest in which one of the opponents is overmatched. Milton. D. Webster. 

OVERMEASURE:  To measure or estimate too largely. 

OVERMEASURE:  Excessive measure; the excess beyond true or proper measure; surplus. 

OVERMEDDLE:  To meddle unduly. 

OVERMEDDLING:  Excessive interference. "Justly shent for their overmeddling." Fuller. 

OVERMELLOW:  Too mellow; overripe. 

OVERMERIT:  Excessive merit. Bacon. 

OVERMICKLE:  Overmuch. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

OVERMIX:  To mix with too much. 

OVERMODEST:  Modest to excess; bashful.  -- O"ver*mod"est*ly, adv. 

OVERMOIST:  Excessively moist. Bacon. 

OVERMOISTURE:  Excess of moisture. 

OVERMORE:  Beyond; moreover. [Obs.] 

OVERMORROW:  The day after or following to-morrow. [Obs.] Bible (1551). 

OVERMOST:  Over the rest in authority; above all others; highest. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

OVERMOUNT:  To mount over; to go higher than; to rise above. 

OVERMUCH:  Too much.  -- adv.  In too great a degree; too much.  -- n.  An excess; a surplus. 

OVERMUCHNESS:  The quality or state of being in excess; superabundance. [R.] B. Jonson. 

OVERMULTIPLY:  To multiply or increase too much; to repeat too often. 

OVERMULTITUDE:  To outnumber. [Obs.] 

OVERNAME:  To name over or in a series; to recount. [Obs.] Shak. 

OVERNEAT:  Excessively neat. Spectator. 

OVERNICE:  Excessively nice; fastidious. Bp. Hall.  -- O"ver*nice"ly, adv.  -- O"ver*nice"ness, n. 

OVERNIGHT:  The fore part of the night last past; the previous evening. [R.] Shak. 

OVERNIGHT:  In the fore part of the night last past; in the evening before; also, during the night; as, the candle will not last overnight. I had been telling her all that happened overnight. Dickens. 

OVERNOISE:  To overpower by noise. 

OVERNUMEROUS:  Excessively numerous; too many. 

OVEROFFICE:  To domineer over by virtue of office. [Obs.] Shak. 

OVEROFFICIOUS:  Too busy; too ready to intermeddle; too officious. Collier. 

OVERPAINT:  To color or describe too strongly. Sir W. Raleigh. 

OVERPAMPER:  To pamper excessively; to feed or dress too much. Dryton. 

OVERPART:  To give too important or difficult a part to. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

OVERPASS:  To pass over, away, or off. 

OVERPASSIONATE:  Passionate to excess.  -- O"ver*pas"sion*ate*ly, adv. 

OVERPATIENT:  Patient to excess. 

OVERPAY:  To pay too much to; to reward too highly. 

OVERPEER:  To peer over; to rise above. 

OVERPEOPLE:  To people too densely. 

OVERPERCH:  To perch upon; to fly over. [Obs.] Shak. 

OVERPERSUADE:  To persuade or influence against one's inclination or judgment. Pope. 

OVERPESTER:  To pester exceedingly or excessively. Sir W. Raleigh. 

OVERPICTURE:  To surpass nature in the picture or representation of. [Obs.] "O'erpicturing that Venus." Shak. 

OVERPLEASE:  To please excessively. 

OVERPLUS:  That which remains after a supply, or beyond a quantity proposed; surplus. Shak. "The overplus of a great fortune." Addison. 

OVERPLY:  To ply to excess; to exert with too much vigor; to overwork. Milton. 

OVERPOISE:  To outweigh; to overbalance. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

OVERPOISE:  Preponderant weight; a counterbalance. [R.] Mrs. Browning. 

OVERPOLISH:  To polish too much. 

OVERPONDEROUS:  Too heavy. 

OVERPOST:  To post over; to pass over swiftly, as by post. Shak. 

OVERPOTENT:  Too potent or powerful. 

OVERPOWER:  To excel or exceed in power; to cause to yield; to vanquish; to subdue; as, the light overpowers the eyes. "And overpower'd that gallant few." Wordsworth.  Syn.  -- To overbear; overcome; vanquish; defeat; crush; overwhelm; overthrow; rout; conquer; subdue. 

OVERPOWER:  A dominating power. Bacon. 

OVERPOWERING:  Excelling in power; too powerful; irresistible.  -- O`ver*pow"er*ing*ly, adv. 

OVERPRAISE:  To praise excessively or unduly. 

OVERPRAISING:  The act of praising unduly; excessive praise. Milton. 

OVERPRESSURE:  Excessive pressure or urging. London Athenæum. 

OVERPRIZE:  Toprize excessively; to overvalue. Sir H. Wotton. 

OVERPRODUCTION:  Excessive production; supply beyond the demand. J. S. Mill. 

OVERPROMPT:  Too prompt; too ready or eager; precipitate.  -- O`ver*prompt"ness, n. 

OVERPROOF:  Containing more alcohol than proof spirit; stronger than proof spirit; that is, containing more than 49.3 per cent by weight of alcohol. 

OVERPROPORTION:  To make of too great proportion. 

OVERPROUD:  Exceedingly or unduly proud. "Overproud of his victory." Milton. 

OVERPROVIDENT:  Too provident. 

OVERPROVOKE:  To provoke excessively. Bp. Hall. 

OVERQUELL:  To quell or subdue completely. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

OVERQUIETNESS:  Too much quietness. Sir. T. Browne. 

OVERRAKE:  To rake over, or sweep across, from end to end, as waves that break over a vessel anchored with head to the sea. 

OVERRANK:  Too rank or luxuriant. 

OVERRATE:  To rate or value too highly. 

OVERRATE:  An excessive rate. [R.] Massinger. 

OVERREACH:  The act of striking the heel of the fore foot with the toe of the hind foot; -- said of horses. 

OVERREACHER:  One who overreaches; one who cheats; a cheat. 

OVERREAD:  To read over, or peruse. Shak. 

OVERREADY:  Too ready.  -- O"ver*read"*i*ly, adv.  -- O"ver*read"i*ness, n. 

OVERRECKON:  To reckon too highly. 

OVERRED:  To smear with red. [Obs.] 

OVERREFINE:  To refine too much. 

OVERREFINEMENT:  Excessive refinement. 

OVERRENT:  To rent for too much. 

OVERRICH:  Exccessively rich. 

OVERRIGGED:  Having too much rigging. 

OVERRIGHTEOUS:  Excessively righteous; -- usually implying hypocrisy. 

OVERRIGID:  Too rigid; too severe. 

OVERRIGOROUS:  Too rigorous; harsh. 

OVERRIPE:  Matured to excess. Milton. 

OVERRIPEN:  To make too ripe. Shak. 

OVERROAST:  To roast too much. Shak. 

OVERRULE:  To supersede, reject, annul, or rule against; as, the plea, or the decision, was overruled by the court. 

OVERRULE:  To be superior or supreme in rulling or controlling; as, God rules and overrules. Shak. 

OVERRULER:  One who, or that which, controls, governs, or determines. Sir P. Sidney. 

OVERRULING:  Exerting controlling power; as, an overruling Providence.  -- O`ver*rul"ing*ly, adv. 

OVERRUN:  To extend beyond its due or desired length; as, a line, or advertisement, overruns. 

OVERRUNNER:  One that overruns. Lovelace. 

OVERSATURATE:  To saturate to excess. 

OVERSAY:  To say over; to repeat. Ford. 

OVERSCRUPULOSITY:  Overscrupulousness. 

OVERSCRUPULOUS:  Scrupulous to excess. 

OVERSCRUPULOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being overscrupulous; excess of scrupulousness. 

OVERSEA:  Beyond the sea; foreign.  OVERSEA; OVERSEAS O"ver*sea", O"ver*seas", adv.  Over the sea; abroad. Milton. Tennyson. 

OVERSEARCH:  To search all over. 

OVERSEASON:  To season too highly. 

OVERSEE:  To see too or too much; hence, to be deceived. [Obs.] The most expert gamesters may sometimes oversee. Fuller. Your partiality to me is much overseen, if you think me fit to correct your Latin. Walpole. 

OVERSEER:  One who oversees; a superintendent; a supervisor; as, an overseer of a mill; specifically, one or certain public officers; as, an overseer of the poor; an overseer of highways. 

OVERSEERSHIP:  The office of an overseer. 

OVERSET:  To turn, or to be turned, over; to be upset. Mortimer. 

OVERSHADE:  To cover with shade; to render dark or gloomy; to overshadow. Shak. 

OVERSHADOWER:  One that throws a shade, or shadow, over anything. Bacon. 

OVERSHADOWY:  Overshadowing. [R.] 

OVERSHAKE:  To shake over or away; to drive away; to disperse. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OVERSHOE:  A shoe that is worn over another for protection from wet or for extra warmth; esp., an India-rubber shoe; a galoche. 

OVERSHOOT:  To fly beyond the mark. Collier. 

OVERSHOT:  From Overshoot, v. t. Overshot wheel, a vertical water wheel, the circumference of which is covered with cavities or buckets, and which is turned by water which shoots over the top of it, filling the buckets on the farther side and acting chiefly by its we'ght. 

OVERSIZE:  To surpass in size. 

OVERSIZE:  To cover with viscid matter. [R.] O'ersized with coagulate gore. Shak. 

OVERSKIP:  To skip or leap over; to treat with indifference. Shak. 

OVERSKIRT:  An upper skirt, shorter than the dress, and usually draped. 

OVERSLAUGH:  A bar in a river; as, the overslaugh in the Hudson River. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 

OVERSLAUGH:  To hinder or stop, as by an overslaugh or an impediment; as, to overslaugh a bill in a legislative body; to overslaugh a military officer, that is, to hinder his promotion or employment. [Local Cant, U. S.] 

OVERSLEEP:  To sleep beyond; as, to oversleep one's self or one's usual hour of rising. 

OVERSLEEP:  To sleep too long. 

OVERSLIDE:  To slide over or by. 

OVERSLIP:  To slip or slide over; to pass easily or carelessly beyond; to omit; to neglect; as, to overslip time or opportunity. 

OVERSLOP:  An outer garment, or slop. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OVERSLOW:  To render slow; to check; to curb. [Obs.] Hammond. 

OVERSLOW:  Too slow. 

OVERSMAN:  An umpire; a third arbiter, appointed when two arbiters, previously selected, disagree. 

OVERSNOW:  To cover with snow, or as with snow. [Poetic] Shak. Dryden. 

OVERSOON:  Too soon. Sir P. Sidney. 

OVERSORROW:  To grieve or afflict to excess. [Obs.] Milton. 

OVERSOUL:  The all-containing soul. [R.] That unity, that oversout, within which every man's particular being is contained and made one with all other. Emerson. 

OVERSOW:  To sow where something has already been sown. [R.] His enemy came and oversowed cockle among the wheat. Matt. x 

OVERSPAN:  To reach or extend over. 

OVERSPEAK:  To exceed in speaking; to speak too much; to use too many words. 

OVERSPIN:  To spin out to too great length; to protract unduly. W. Cartwright. 

OVERSPREAD:  To spread over; to cover; as, the deluge overspread the earth. Chaucer. Those nations of the North Which overspread the world. Drayton. 

OVERSPREAD:  To be spread or scattered over. 

OVERSPRING:  To spring or leap over. 

OVERSTAND:  To stand on the price or conditions of, so as to lose a sale; to lose by an extravagant price or hard conditions. [Obs.] What madman would o'erstand his market twice Dryden. 

OVERSTARE:  To outstare. [Obs.] Shak. 

OVERSTARE:  To stare wildly. [Obs.] Ascham. 

OVERSTATE:  To state in too strong terms; to exaggerate. Fuller. 

OVERSTATEMENT:  An exaggerated statement or account. 

OVERSTAY:  To stay beyond the time or the limits of; as, to overstay the appointed time. Bp. Hall. 

OVERSTEP:  To step over or beyond; to transgress. Shak. 

OVERSTOCK:  Stock in excess. Tatler. 

OVERSTOCK:  To fill too full; to supply in excess; as, to overstock a market with goods, or a farm with cattle. 

OVERSTORE:  To overstock. Sir. M. Hale.  OVER-STORY O`ver-sto`ry, n. (Arch.)  The clearstory, or upper story, of a building. 

OVERSTRAIN:  To strain one's self to excess. Dryden. 

OVERSTRAIN:  To stretch or strain too much; as to overstrain one's nerves. Ayliffe. 

OVERSTRAITLY:  Too straitly or strictly. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

OVERSTRAW:  To overstrew. [Obs.] Shak. 

OVERSTREW:  To strew or scatter over. 

OVERSTRICT:  Excessively strict. 

OVERSTRIDE:  To stride over or beyond. 

OVERSTRIKE:  To strike beyond. [Obs.] 

OVERSTROW:  See Overstrew. 

OVERSTUDIOUS:  Too studious. 

OVERSUBTILE:  Excessively subtile. 

OVERSUM:  A sum or quantity over; surplus. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

OVERSUPPLY:  To supply in excess. 

OVERSUPPLY:  An excessive supply. A general oversupply or excess of all commodities. J. S. Mill. 

OVERSURE:  Excessively sure. 

OVERSWAY:  To bear sway over. 

OVERSWELL:  To swell or rise above; to overflow. [R.] Shak. 

OVERT:  Not covert; open; public; manifest; as, an overt act of treason. Macaulay. No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open court. Constitution of the U. S.  Note: In criminal law, an overt act is an open done in pursuance and manifestation of a criminal design; the mere design or intent not being punishable without such act. In English law, market overt is an open market; a pound overt is an open, uncovered pound. 

OVERTALK:  To talk to excess. Milton. 

OVERTASK:  To task too heavily. 

OVERTAX:  To tax or to task too heavily. 

OVERTEDIOUS:  Too tedious. 

OVERTEMPT:  To tempt exceedingly, or beyond the power of resistance. Milton. 

OVERTHWART:  Across; crosswise; transversely. "Y'clenched overthwart and endelong." Chaucer. 

OVERTHWART:  Across; from alde to side of. "Huge trees overthwart one another." Milton. 

OVERTHWART:  That which is overthwart; an adverse circumstance; opposition. [Obs.] Surrey. 

OVERTHWART:  To cross; to oppose. [Obs.] 

OVERTHWARTLY:  In an overthwart manner;across; also, perversely. [Obs.] Peacham. 

OVERTHWARTNESS:  The state of being overthwart; perverseness. [Obs.] Lord Herbert. 

OVERTILT:  To tilt over; to overturn. 

OVERTIME:  Time beyond, or in excess of, a limit; esp., extra working time. 

OVERTIRE:  To tire to excess; to exhaust. 

OVERTIRE:  To become too tired. Br. Hall. 

OVERTITLE:  To give too high a title to. 

OVERTLY:  Publicly; openly. 

OVERTOIL:  To overwork. 

OVERTOIL:  To weary excessively; to exhaust. Then dozed a while herself, but overtoiled By that day's grief and travel. Tennyson. 

OVERTONE:  One of the harmonics faintly heard with and above a tone as it dies away, produced by some aliquot portion of the vibrating sting or column of air which yields the fundamental tone; one of the natural harmonic scale of tones, as the octave, twelfth, fifteenth, etc.; an aliquot or "partial" tone; a harmonic. See Harmonic, and Tone. Tyndall. 

OVERTOWER:  To tower over or above. 

OVERTOWER:  To soar too high. [R.] Fuller. 

OVERTRADE:  To trade beyond one's capital; to buy goods beyond the means of paying for or seleng them; to overstock the market. 

OVERTRADING:  The act or practice of buying goods beyond the means of payment; a glutting of the market. 

OVERTREAD:  To tread over or upon. 

OVERTRIP:  To trip over nimbly. 

OVERTROUBLED:  Excessively troubled. 

OVERTROW:  To be too trustful or confident; to trust too much. [Obs.] Wyclif 

OVERTRUST:  Excessive confidence. 

OVERTRUST:  To trust too much. Bp. Hall. 

OVERTURE:  A composition, for a full orchestra, designed as an introduction to an oratorio, opera, or ballet, or as an independent piece; -- called in the latter case a concert overture. 

OVERTURE:  To make an overture to; as, to overture a religious body on some subject. 

OVERTURN:  The act off overturning, or the state of being overturned or subverted; overthrow; as, an overturn of parties. 

OVERTURNABLE:  Capable of being, or liable to be, overturned or subverted. 

OVERTURNER:  One who overturns. South. 

OVERVAIL:  See Overveil. 

OVERVALUATION:  Excessive valuation; overestimate. 

OVERVEIL:  To veil or cover. Shak. 

OVERVIEW:  An inspection or overlooking. [Obs.] Shak. 

OVERVOTE:  To outvote; to outnumber in votes given. [R.] Eikon Basilike. 

OVERWALK:  To walk over or upon. 

OVERWAR:  To defeat. [Obs.] Warner. 

OVERWARY:  Too wary; too cautious. 

OVERWASH:  To overflow. Holinshed. 

OVERWASTED:  Wasted or worn out; [Obs.] Drayton. 

OVERWAX:  To wax or grow too rapindly or too much. [Obs.] R. of Gloucester. 

OVERWEAK:  Too weak; too feeble. 

OVERWEAR:  To wear too much; to wear out. Drayton. 

OVERWEARY:  To weary too much; to tire out. Dryden. 

OVERWEATHER:  To expose too long to the influence of the weather. [Obs.] Shak. 

OVERWEEN:  To think too highly or arrogantly; to regard one's own thinking or conclusions too highly; hence, to egotistic, arrogant, or rash, in opinion; to think conceitedly; to presume. They that overween, And at thy growing virtues fret their spleen. Milton. 

OVERWEENER:  One who overweens. [R.] The conceits of warmed or overweening brain. Locke. 

OVERWEENING:  Unduly confident; arrogant; presumptuous; conceited.  -- O`ver*ween"ingly, adv. Milton.  -- O`ver*ween"ing*ness, n. Here's an overweening rogue. Shak. 

OVERWEENING:  Conceit; arrogance. Milton. 

OVERWEIGH:  To exceed in weight; to overbalance; to weigh down. Drayton. Hooker. 

OVERWEIGHT:  Overweighing; excessive. [Obs.] "Of no overweight worth." Fuller. 

OVERWELL:  To overflow. R. D. Blackmore. 

OVERWET:  Excessive wetness. [Obs.] Another ill accident is, overwet at sowing time. Bacon. 

OVERWHELM:  , n. The act of overwhelming. [R.] 

OVERWHELMING:  Overpowering; irresistible.  -- O`ver*whelm"ing*ly, adv. 

OVERWIND:  To wind too tightly, as a spring, or too far, as a hoisting rope on a drum. 

OVERWING:  To outflank. [Obs.] Milton. 

OVERWISE:  Too wise; affectedly wise.  -- O`ver*wise"ly, adv.  -- O`ver*wise"ness, n. 

OVERWIT:  To outwit. Swift. 

OVERWORD:  To say in too many words; to express verbosely. Hales. 

OVERWORK:  To work too much, or beyond one's strength. 

OVERWORK:  Work in excess of the usual or stipulated time or quantity; extra work; also, excessive labor. 

OVERWORN:  Worn out or subdued by toil; worn out so as to be trite. 

OVERWREST:  To wrest or force from the natural or proper position. Shak. 

OVERWRESTLE:  To subdue by wrestling. [Obs.] Spenser. 

OVERWROUGHT:  Wrought upon excessively; overworked; overexcited. 

OVERZEAL:  Excess of zeal. Fairfax. 

OVERZEALOUS:  Too zealous. 

OVICAPSULE:  The outer layer of a Graafian follicle.  2. (Zoöl.)  Same as Oötheca. 

OVICELL:  One of the dilatations of the body wall of Bryozoa in which the ova sometimes undegro the first stages of their development. See Illust. of Chilostoma. 

OVICULAR:  Of or pertaining to an egg. 

OVICYST:  The pouch in which incubation takes place in some Tunicata. 

OVIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Latin poet Ovid; resembling the style of Ovid. 

OVIDUCAL:  Of or pertaining to oviducts; as, oviducal glands. 

OVIDUCT:  A tube, or duct, for the passage of ova from the ovary to the exterior of the animal or to the part where further development takes place. In mammals the oviducts are also called Fallopian tubes. 

OVIFEROUS:  Egg-bearing; -- applied particularly to certain receptacles, as in Crustacea, that retain the eggs after they have been excluded from the formative organs, until they are hatched. 

OVIFORM:  Having the form or figure of an egg; egg-shaped; as, an oviform leaf. 

OVIGERONS:  Bearing eggs; oviferous. 

OVILE:  See Ovine. 

OVINE:  Of or pertaining to sheep; consisting of sheep. 

OVIPARA:  An artifical division of vertebrates, including those that lay eggs; -opposed to Vivipara. 

OVIPARITY:  Generatuon by means of ova. See Generation. 

OVIPAROUS:  Producing young from rggs; as, an oviparous animal, in which the egg is generally separated from the animal, and hatched after exclusion; -- opposed to viviparous. 

OVIPOSIT:  To lay or deposit eggs; -- said esp. of insects. 

OVIPOSIT:  To deposit or lay (an egg).  OVIPOSITING; OVIPOSITION O`vi*pos"it*ing, O`vi*po*si"tion, n.  The depositing of eggs, esp. by insects. 

OVIPOSITOR:  The organ with which many insects and some other animals deposit their eggs. Some ichneumon files have a long ovipositor fitted to pierce the eggs or larvæ of other insects, in order to lay their own eggs within the same. 

OVISM:  The old theory that the egg contains the whole embryo of the future organism and the germs of all subsequent offsprings and is merely awakened to activity by the spermatozoön; -- opposed to spermism or animalculism. 

OVIST:  Same as Ovulist. 

OVOCOCCUS:  A germinal vesicle.  OVOID; OVOIDAL O"void, O*void"al, a. Etym: [Ovum + -oid: cf. F. ovoïde.]  Resembling an egg in shape; egg-shaped; ovate; as, an ovoidal apple. 

OVOID:  A solid resembling an egg in shape. 

OVOLO:  A round, convex molding. See Illust. of Column.  Note: In Roman work it is usually a quarter circle in section; in Greek work it is flatter, and is equivalent to the echinus; that is, it has in section the elastic curve of the shell of the sea urchin. In mediæval architecture it is not distinguishable from the multitude of convex moldings, of all sections, which are used. 

OVOLOGY:  That branch of natural history which treats of the origin and functions of eggs. 

OVOPLASMA:  Yolk; egg yolk. Haeckel. 

OVOTESTTIS:  An organ which produces both ova and spermatozoids; an hermaphrodite gland. 

OVOVIVIPAROUS:  Oviparous, but hatching the egg while it is within the body, as some fishes and reptiles. 

OVULAR:  Relating or belonging to an ovule; as, an ovular growth. 

OVULARY:  Pertaining to ovules. 

OVULATE:  Containing an ovule or ovules. 

OVULATION:  The formation of ova or eggs in the ovary, and the discharge of the same. In the mammalian female the discharge occurs during menstruation. 

OVULIFEROUS:  Producing ovules. 

OVULIST:  A believer in the theory (called encasement theory), current during the last century, that the egg was the real animal germ, and that at the time of fecundation the spermatozoa simply gave the impetus which caused the unfolding of the egg, in which all generations were inclosed one within the other. Also called ovist. 

OVULITE:  A fossil egg. 

OVULUM:  An ovule. 

OVUM:  A more or less spherical and transparent mass of granular protoplasm, which by a process of multiplication and growth develops into a mass of cells, constituting a new individual like the parent; an egg, spore, germ, or germ cell. See Illust. of Mycropyle.  Note: The ovum is a typical cell, with a cell wall, cell substance, nucleus, and nucleolus. In man and the higher animals the cell wall, a vertically striated membrane, is called the zona pellucida; the cell contents, the vitellus; the nucleus, the germinal vesicle; and the nucleolus, the germinal spot. The diameter of the ripe ovum in man and the domestic animals varies between 1-200 and 1-120 of an inch.  2. (Arch.)  One of the series of egg-shaped ornaments into which the ovolo is often carved. Gwilt. 

OWCH:  See Ouch. [Obs.] Speser. 

OWEL:  Equal. [Obs.] Burrill. 

OWELTY:  Equality; -- sometimes written ovelty and ovealty. Burrill. 

OWEN:  Own. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OWENITE:  A follower of Robert Owen, who tried to reorganize society on a socialistic basis, and established an industrial community on the Clyde, Scotland, and, later, a similar one in Indiana. 

OWHER:  Anywhere. [Obs.] "If he found owher a good fellow." Chaucer. 

OWL:  Any cpecies of raptorial birds of the family Strigidæ. They have large eyes and ears, and a conspicuous circle of feathers around each eye. They are mostly nocturnal in their habits.  Note: Some species have erectile tufts of feathers on the head. The feathers are soft and somewhat downy. The species are numerous. See Barn owl, Burrowing owl, Eared owl, Hawk owl, Horned owl, Screech owl, Snowy owl, under BarnBurrowing, etc.  Note: In the Scriptures the owl is commonly associated with desolation; poets and story-tellers introduce it as a bird of ill omen. . . . The Greeks and Romans made it the emblem of wisdom, and sacred to Minerva, -- and indeed its large head and solemn eyes give it an air of wisdom. Am. Cyc.  2. (Zoöl.)  A variety of the domestic pigeon. Owl monkey (Zoöl.), any one of several species of South American nocturnal monkeys of the genus Nyctipithecus. They have very large eyes. Called also durukuli.  -- Owl moth ( (Zoöl.), a very large moth (Erebus strix). The expanse of its wings is over ten inches.  -- Owl parrot (Zoöl.), the kakapo.  -- Sea owl (Zoöl.), the lumpfish.  -- Owl train, a cant name for certain railway trains whose run is in the nighttime. 

OWLER:  One who owls; esp., one who conveys contraband goods. See Owling, n. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] T. Brown. 

OWLERY:  An abode or a haunt of owls. 

OWLET:  A small owl; especially, the European species (Athene noctua), and the California flammulated owlet (Megascops flammeolus). Owlet moth (Zoöl.), any noctuid moth.  OWL-EYED Owl"-eyed`, a.  Having eyes like an owl's. 

OWLING:  The offense of transporting wool or sheep out of England contrary to the statute formerly existing. Blackstone. 

OWLISH:  Resembling, or characteristic of, an owl. 

OWLISM:  Affected wisdom; pompous dellness. [R.] 

OWLLIGHT:  Glimmering or imperfect [R.] Bp. Warburton. 

OWN:  To grant; to acknowledge; to admit to be true; to confess; to recognize in a particular character; as, we own that we have forfeited your love. The wakeful bloodhound rose, and shook his hide owns. Keats. 

OWN:  Belonging to; belonging exclusively or especially to; peculiar; -- most frequently following a possessive pronoun, as my, our, thy, your, his, her, its, their, in order to emphasize or intensify the idea of property, peculiar interest, or exclusive ownership; as, my own father; my own composition; my own idea; at my own price. "No man was his own [i. e., no man was master of himself, or in possession of his senses]." Shak. To hold one's own, to keep or maintain one's possessions; to yield nothing; esp., to suffer no loss or disadvantage in a contest. Shak. 

OWN:  To hold as property; to have a legal or rightful title to; to be the proprietor or possessor of; to possess; as, to own a house. 

OWNER:  One who owns; a rightful proprietor; one who has the legal or rightful title, whether he is the possessor or not. Shak. 

OWNERLESS:  Without an owner. 

OWNERSHIP:  The state of being an owner; the right to own; exclusive right of possession; legal or just claim or title; proprietorship. 

OWRE:  The aurohs. [Obs.]  OWSE; OWSER Owse, Ow"ser, n.  Tanner's ooze. See Ooze, 3. 

OX:  The male of bovine quadrupeds, especially the domestic animal when castrated and grown to its full size, or nearly so. The word is also applied, as a general name, to any species of bovine animals, male and female. All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field. Ps. viii. 7.  Note: The castrated male is called a steer until it attains its full growth, and then, an ox; but if castrated somewhat late in life, it is called a stag. The male, not castrated, is called a bull. These distinctions are well established in regard to domestic animals of this genus. When wild animals of this kind are spoken of, ox is often applied both to the male and the female. The name ox is never applied to the individual cow, or female, of the domestic kind. Oxen may comprehend both the male and the female. Grunting ox (Zoöl.), the yak.  -- Indian ox (Zoöl.), the zebu.  -- Javan ox (Zoöl.), the banteng.  -- Musk ox. (Zoöl.) See under Musk.  -- Ox bile. See Ox gall, below.  -- Ox gall, the fresh gall of the domestic ox; -- used in the arts and in medicine.  -- Ox pith, ox marrow. [Obs.] Marston.  -- Ox ray (Zoöl.), a very large ray (Dicerobatis Giornæ) of Southern Europe. It has a hornlike organ projecting forward from each pectoral fin. It sometimes becomes twenty feet long and twenty-eight feet broad, and weighs over a ton. Called also sea devil.  -- To have the black ox tread on one's foot, to be unfortunate; to know what sorrow is (because black oxen were sacrificed to Pluto). Leigh Hunt. 

OXACID:  See Oxyacid. 

OXALAN:  A complex nitrogenous substance C3N3H5O3 obtained from alloxan (or when urea is fused with ethyl oxamate), as a stable white crystalline powder; -- called also oxaluramide. 

OXALANTIN:  A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C6H4N4O5) obtained by the reduction of parabanic acid; -- called also leucoturic acid. 

OXALATE:  A salt of oxalic acid. 

OXALDEHYDE:  Same as Glyoxal. 

OXALETHYLINE:  A poisonous nitrogenous base (C6H10N2) obtained indirectly from oxamide as a thick transparent oil which has a strong narcotic odor, and a physiological action resembling that of atropine. It is probably related to pyridine. 

OXALIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, sorrel, or oxalis; specifically, designating an acid found in, and characteristic of, oxalis, and also certain plant of the Buckwheat family. Oxalic acid (Chem.), a dibasic acid, existing combined in oxalis as an acid potassium oxalate, and in many plant tissues as the calcium oxalate. It is prepared on a large scale, by the action of fused caustic soda or potash on sawdust, as a white crystalline substance, which has a strong acid taste, and is poisonous in large doses. It is used in dyeing, calico printing, bleaching flax and straw, the preparation of formic acid, and in salts of lemon for removing ink stains, mold, etc. 

OXALINE:  See Glyoxaline. 

OXALIS:  A genus of plants,mostly herbs, with acid-tasting trifoliolate or multifoliolate leaves; -- called also wood sorrel. 

OXALITE:  A yellow mineral consisting of oxalate of iron. 

OXALURAMIDE:  Same as Oxalan. 

OXALURATE:  A salt of oxaluric acid. 

OXALURIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid related to the ureids, and obtained from parabanic acid as a white silky crystalline substance. 

OXAMATE:  A salt of oxamic acid. 

OXAMETHANE:  Ethyl oxamate, obtained as a white scaly crystalline powder. 

OXAMETHYLANE:  Methyl oxamate, obtained as a pearly white crystalline substance. 

OXAMIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid NH2.C2O2.HO obtained as a fine crystalline powder, intermediate between oxalic acid and oxamide. Its ammonium salt is obtained by boiling oxamide with ammonia. 

OXAMIDE:  A white crystalline neutral substance (C2O2(NH2)2) obtained by treating ethyl oxalate with ammonia. It is the acid amide of oxalic acid. Formerly called also oxalamide. 

OXAMIDINE:  One of a series of bases containing the amido and the isonitroso groups united to the same carbon atom.  OXANILAMIDE; OXANILLAMIDE Ox`a*nil*am"ide, Ox`a*nill*am"ide, n. Etym: [Oxanilic + amide.] (Chem.)  A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, obtained indirectly by the action of cyanogen on aniline, and regarded as an anilide of oxamic acid; -- called also phenyl oxamide. 

OXANILATE:  A salt of oxanilic acid. 

OXANILIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, oxalic acid and aniline; -- used to designate an acid obtained in white crystalline scales by heating these substances together. 

OXANILIDE:  a white crystalline substance, resembling oxanilamide, obtained by heating aniline oxalate, and regarded as a double anilide of oxalic acid; -- called also diphenyl oxamide. 

OXBANE:  A poisonous bulbous plant (Buphane toxicaria) of the Cape of Good Hope. 

OXBITER:  The cow blackbird. [Local, U. S.] 

OXBOW:  A frame of wood, bent into the shape of the letter U, and embracing an ox's neck as a kind of collar, the upper ends passing through the bar of the yoke; also, anything so shaped, as a bend in a river. 

OXEYED:  Having large, full eyes, like those of an ox. Burton. 

OXFLY:  The gadfly of cattle. 

OXFORD:  Of or pertaining to the city or university of Oxford, England. Oxford movement. See Tractarianism.  -- Oxford School, a name given to those members of the Church of England who adopted the theology of the so-called Oxford "Tracts for the Times," issued the period 1833 -- 1841. Shipley.  -- Oxford tie, a kind of shoe, laced on the instep, and usually covering the foot nearly to the ankle. 

OXGANG:  See Bovate. 

OXGOAD:  A goad for driving oxen. 

OXHEAD:  Literally, the head of an ox (emblem of cuckoldom); hence, a dolt; a blockhead. Dost make a mummer of me, oxhead Marston. 

OXHEAL:  Same as Bear's-foot. 

OXHEART:  A large heart-shaped cherry, either black, red, or white. 

OXHIDE:  A measure of land. See 3d Hide. 

OXID:  See Oxide. 

OXIDABILITY:  Capability of being converted into an oxide. 

OXIDABLE:  Capable of being converted into an oxide. 

OXIDATE:  To oxidize. [Obs.] 

OXIDATION:  The act or process of oxidizing, or the state or result of being oxidized. 

OXIDE:  A binary compound of oxygen with an atom or radical, or a compound which is regarded as binary; as, iron oxide, ethyl oxide, nitrogen oxide, etc.  Note: In the chemical nomenclature adopted by Guyton de Morveau, Lavoisier,and their associates, the term oxides was made to include all compounds of oxygen which had no acid (F. acide) properties, as contrasted with the acid, all of which were at that time supposed to contain oxygen. The orthography oxyde, oxyd, etc., was afterwards introduced in ignorance or disregard of the true etymology, but these forms are now obsolete in English. The spelling oxid is not common. 

OXIDIZABLE:  Capable of being oxidized. 

OXIDIZE:  To combine with oxygen, or subject to the action of oxygen, or of an oxidizing agent. Specifically: (a) To combine with oxygen or with more oxygen; to add oxygen to; as, to oxidize nitrous acid so as to form nitric acid. (b) To remove hydrogen from (anything), as by the action of oxygen; as, to oxidize alcohol so as to form aldehyde. (c) To subject to the action of oxygen or of an oxidizing agent, so as to bring to a higher grade, as an -ous compound to an -ic compound; as, to oxidize mercurous chloride to mercuric chloride.  Note: In certain cases to oxidize is identical with to acidify; for, in nearly all cases, the more oxygen a substance contains the more nearly does it approximate to acid qualities; thus, by oxidation many elements, as sulphur, nitrogen, carbon, chromium, manganese, etc., pass into compounds which are acid anhydrides, and thus practically in the acid state. 

OXIDIZEMENT:  Oxidation. [R.] 

OXIDIZER:  An agent employed in oxidation, or which facilitates or brings about combination with oxygen; as, nitric acid, chlorine, bromine, etc., are strong oxidizers. 

OXIDULATED:  Existing in the state of a protoxide; -- said of an oxide. [R.] 

OXIME:  One of a series of isonitroso derivatives obtained by the action of hydroxylamine on aldehydes or ketones. 

OXINDOL:  A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C8H7NO) of the indol group, obtained by the reduction of dioxindol. It is a so-called lactam compound. 

OXIODIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of iodine and oxygen. 

OXLIKE:  Characteristic of, or like, an ox. 

OXLIP:  The great cowslip (Primula veris, var. elatior). 

OXONATE:  A salt of oxonic acid. 

OXONIAN:  Of or relating to the city or the university of Oxford, England. Macaulay. 

OXONIAN:  A student or graduate of Oxford University, in England. 

OXONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid (C4H5N3O4) not known in the free state, but obtained, in combination with its salts, by a slow oxidation of uric acid, to which it is related. 

OXPECKER:  An African bird of the genus Buphaga; the beefeater. 

OXSHOE:  A shoe for oxen, consisting of a flat piece of iron nailed to the hoof. 

OXTER:  The armpit; also, the arm. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

OXTONGUE:  A name given to several plants, from the shape and roughness of their leaves; as, Anchusa officinalis, a kind of bugloss, and Helminthia echioides, both European herbs.  OXY- Ox"y-. (Chem.)  A prefix, also used adjectively, designating: (a) A compound containing oxygen. (b) A compound containing the hydroxyl group, more properly designated by hydroxy-. See Hydroxy-. Oxy acid. See Oxyacid (below). 

OXYACETIC:  Hydroxyacetic; designating an acid called also glycolic acid. 

OXYACID:  An acid containing oxygen, as chloric acid or sulphuric acid; - - contrasted with the hydracids, which contain no oxygen, as hydrochloric acid. See Acid, and Hydroxy-. 

OXYAMMONIA:  Same as Hydroxylamine. 

OXYBENZENE:  Hydroxy benzene. Same as Phenol. 

OXYBENZOIC:  Hydroxybenzoic; pertaining to, or designating, any one of several hydroxyl derivatives of benzonic acid, of which the commonest is salicylic acid. 

OXYBROMIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of oxygen and bromine. 

OXYBUTYRIC:  Hydroxybutyric; designating any one of a group of metameric acids (C3H6.OH.CO2H). 

OXYCALCIUM:  Of or pertaining to oxygen and calcium; as, the oxycalcium light. See Drummond light. 

OXYCAPROIC:  See Leucic. 

OXYCHLORIDE:  A ternary compound of oxygen and chlorine; as, plumbic oxychloride. 

OXYCRATE:  A Mixture of water and vinegar. Wiseman. 

OXYCYMENE:  Hydroxy cymene. Same as Carvacrol. 

OXYGEN:  A colorless, tasteless, odorless, gaseous element occurring in the free state in the atmosphere, of which it forms about 23 per cent by weight and about 21 per cent by volume, being slightly heavier than nitrogen. Symbol O. Atomic weight 15.96.  Note: It occurs combined in immense quantities, forming eight ninths by weight of water, and probably one half by weight of the entire solid crust of the globe, being an ingredient of silica, the silicates, sulphates, carbonates, nitrates, etc. Oxygen combines with all elements (except fluorine), forming oxides, bases, oxyacid anhydrides, etc., the process in general being called oxidation, of which combustion is only an intense modification. At ordinary temperatures with most substances it is moderately active, but at higher temperatures it is one of the most violent and powerful chemical agents known. It is indispensable in respiration, and in general is the most universally active and efficient element. It may be prepared in the pure state by heating potassium chlorate. This element (called dephlogisticated air by Priestley) was named oxygen by Lavoisier because he supposed it to be a constituent of all acids. This is not so in the case of a very few acids (as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, hydric sulphide, etc.), but these do contain elements analogous to oxygen in property and action. Moreover, the fact that most elements approach the nearer to acid qualities in proportion as they are combined with more oxygen, shows the great accuracy and breadth of Lavoisier's conception of its nature.  2. Chlorine used in bleaching. [Manufacturing name] 

OXYGENATE:  To unite, or cause to combine, with oxygen; to treat with oxygen; to oxidize; as, oxygenated water (hydrogen dioxide). 

OXYGENATION:  The act or process of combining or of treating with oxygen; oxidation. 

OXYGENATOR:  An oxidizer. 

OXYGENIC:  Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, oxygen; producing oxygen. 

OXYGENIUM:  The technical name of oxygen. [R.] 

OXYGENIZABLE:  Oxidizable. 

OXYGENIZE:  To oxidize. 

OXYGENIZEMENT:  Oxidation. 

OXYGENOUS:  Oxygenic. 

OXYGON:  A triangle having three acute angles.  OXYGONAL; OXYGONIAL Ox*yg"o*nal, Ox`y*go"ni*al, a.  Having acute angles. Barlow.  OXYHAEMACYANIN; OXYHAEMOCYANIN Ox`Y*hæm`a*cy"a*nin, Ox`y*hæm`o*cy"a*nin, n. Etym: [Oxy- (a) + hæmacyanin, hæmocyanin.] (Physiol. Chem.)  See Hæmacyanin.  OXYHAEMOGLOBIN; OXYHEMOGLOBIN Ox`y*hæm`o*glo"bin, Ox`y*hem`o*glo"bin, n. Etym: [Oxy- (a) + hæmoglobin, hemoglobin.] (Physiol. Chem.)  See Hemoglobin. 

OXYHYDROGEN:  Of or pertaining to a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen; as, oxyhydrogen gas. Oxyhydrogen blowpipe. (Chem.) See Blowpipe.  -- Oxyhydrogen microscope, a form of microscope arranged so as to use the light produced by burning lime or limestone under a current of oxyhydrogen gas.  OXYHYDROGEN LIGHT Oxyhydrogen light.  A light produced by the incandescence of some substances, esp. lime, in the oxyhydrogen flame. Coal gas (producing the oxygas light), or the vapor of ether (oxyether light) or methylated spirit (oxyspirit light), may be substituted for hydrogen. 

OXYMEL:  A mixture of honey, water, vinegar, and spice, boiled to a sirup. Sir T. Elyot. 

OXYMETHYLENE:  Formic aldehyde, regarded as a methylene derivative. 

OXYMORON:  A figure in which an epithet of a contrary signification is added to a word; e. g., cruel kindness; laborious idleness. 

OXYMURIATE:  A salt of the supposed oxymuriatic acid; a chloride. Oxymuriate of lime, chloride of lime. 

OXYMURIATIC:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, oxygen and muriatic acid, that is, hydrochloric acid. [Archaic.] Oxymuriatic acid, chlorine, formerly so called on the supposition that it was a compound of oxygen and muriatic acid. [Obs.] 

OXYNEURINE:  See Betaine. 

OXYNTIC:  Acid; producing acid; -applied especially to certain glands and cells in the stomach.  OXYOPIA; OXYOPY Ox`y*o"pi*a, Ox"y*o`py, n. Etym: [NL. oxyopia, from Gr. (Med.)  Excessive acuteness of sight. 

OXYPHENIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, the phenol formerly called oxyphenic acid, and now oxyphenol and pyrocatechin. See Pyrocatechin. 

OXYPHENOL:  A phenol, oxyphenic acid, and now pyrocatechin. 

OXYPHONY:  Acuteness or shrillness of voice. 

OXYQUINOLINE:  Hydroxy quinoline; a phenol derivative of quinoline, -- called also carbostyril. 

OXYRHYNCHA:  The maioid crabs. 

OXYRRHODINE:  A mixture of two parts of the oil of roses with one of the vinegar of roses. Floyer. 

OXYSALT:  A salt of an oxyacid, as a sulphate. 

OXYSULPHIDE:  A ternary compound of oxygen and sulphur. 

OXYSULPHURET:  An oxysulphide. [Obsolescent] 

OXYTOCIC:  Promoting uterine contractions, or parturition.  -- n.  An oxytocic medicine or agent. 

OXYTOLUENE:  One of three hydroxy derivatives of toluene, called the cresols. See Cresol. 

OXYTONE:  Having an acute sound; (Gr. Gram.), having an acute accent on the last syllable. 

OXYTONE:  A word having the acute accent on the last syllable. 

OXYTONICAL:  Oxytone. 

OYER:  A hearing or an inspection, as of a deed, bond, etc., as when a defendant in court prays oyer of a writing. Blackstone. Oyer and terminer (Law), a term used in England in commissions directed to judges of assize about to hold court, directing them to hear and determine cases brought before them. In the U.S. the phrase is used to designate certain criminal courts. 

OYEZ:  Hear; attend; -- a term used by criers of courts to secure silence before making a proclamation. It is repeated three times. [Written also oyes.] 

OYLET:  Same as Oillet. 

OYNOUN:  Onion. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

OYSTER:  Any marine bivalve mollusk of the genus Ostrea. They are usually found adhering to rocks or other fixed objects in shallow water along the seacoasts, or in brackish water in the mouth of rivers. The common European oyster (Ostrea edulis), and the American oyster (Ostrea Virginiana), are the most important species.  2. A name popularly given to the delicate morsel contained in a small cavity of the bone on each side of the lower part of the back of a fowl. Fresh-water oyster (Zoöl.), any species of the genus Etheria, and allied genera, found in rivers of Africa and South America. They are irregular in form, and attach themselves to rocks like oysters, but they have a pearly interior, and are allied to the fresh-water mussels.  -- Oyster bed, a breeding place for oysters; a place in a tidal river or other water on or near the seashore, where oysters are deposited to grow and fatten for market. See lst Scalp, n.  -- Oyster catcher (Zoöl.), any one of several species of wading birds of the genus Hæmatopus, which frequent seashores and feed upon shellfish. The European species (H. ostralegus), the common American species (H. palliatus), and the California, or black, oyster catcher (H. Bachmani) are the best known.  -- Oyster crab (Zoöl.) a small crab (Pinnotheres ostreum) which lives as a commensal in the gill cavity of the oyster.  -- Oyster dredge, a rake or small dragnet of bringing up oyster from the bottom of the sea.  -- Oyster fish. (Zoöl.) (a) The tautog. (b) The toadfish.  -- Oyster plant. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Tragopogon (T. porrifolius), the root of which, when cooked, somewhat resembles the oyster in taste; salsify; -- called also vegetable oyster. (b) A plant found on the seacoast of Northern Europe, America and Asia (Mertensia maritima), the fresh leaves of which have a strong flavor of oysters.  -- Oyster plover. (Zoöl.) Same as Oyster catcher, above.  -- Oyster shell (Zoöl.), the shell of an oyster.  -- Oyster wench, Oyster wife, Oyster women, a women who deals in oysters.  -- Pearl oyster. (Zoöl.) See under Pearl.  -- Thorny oyster (Zoöl.), any spiny marine shell of the genus Spondylus.  OYSTER-GREEN Oys"ter-green`, n. (Bot.)  A green membranous seaweed (Ulva) often found growing on oysters but common on stones, piles, etc. 

OYSTERING:  Gathering, or dredging for, oysters. 

OYSTERLING:  A young oyster. 

OZENA:  A discharge of fetid matter from the nostril, particularly if associated with ulceration of the soft parts and disease of the bones of the nose. 

OZOCERITE:  A waxlike mineral resin; -- sometimes called native paraffin, and mineral wax. 

OZONATION:  The act of treating with ozone; also, the act of converting into, or producing, ozone; ozonization. 

OZONE:  A colorless gaseous substance (O  OZONE PAPER O"zone pa"per. (Chem.)  Paper coated with starch and potassium iodine. It turns blue when exposed to ozone.>-- also called starch-iodide paper -->  P. 

OZONIC:  Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, ozone. 

OZONIFICATION:  The act or process of producing, or of subjecting to the action of, ozone. 

OZONIZATION:  Ozonation. 

OZONIZER:  An apparatus or agent for the production or application of ozone. 

OZONOMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the amount of ozone in the atmosphere, or in any gaseous mixture. Faraday. 

OZONOMETRIC:  Pertaining to, or used for, the determination of the amount of ozone; of or relating to ozonometry. 

OZONOMETRY:  The measurement or determination of the quantity of ozone. 

OZONOSCOPE:  An apparatus employed to indicate the presence, or the amount, of ozone. 

OZONOSCOPIC:  Serving to indicate the presence or the amount of ozone. 

OZONOUS:  Pertaining to or containing, ozone. 

P:  the sixteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a nonvocal consonant whose form and value come from the Latin, into which language the letter was brought, through the ancient Greek, from the Phonician, its probable origin being Egyptian. Etymologically P is most closely related to b, f, and v; as hobble, hopple; father, paternal; recipient, receive. See B, F, and M.  See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 247, 248, and 184-195. 

PA:  A shortened form of Papa. 

PAAGE:  A toll for passage over another person's grounds. [Written also peage and pedage.]  Burke. 

PAARD:  The zebra. [S. Africa] 

PAAS:  The Easter festival. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett.  Paas egg. See Easter egg, under Easter. 

PAAS:  Pace [Obs.]  Chaucer 

PABULAR:  Of, pertaining to, or fit for, pabulum or food; affording food. 

PABULOUS:  Affording pabulum, or food; alimental. [R.]  Sir T. Browne. 

PABULUM:  The means of nutriment to animals or plants; food; nourishment; hence, that which feeds or sustains, as fuel for a fire; that upon which the mind or soul is nourished; as, intellectual pabulum. 

PAC:  A kind of moccasin, having the edges of the sole turned up and sewed to the upper. Knight. 

PACA:  A small South American rodent (Cologenys paca), having blackish brown fur, with four parallel rows of white spots along its sides; the spotted cavy. It is nearly allied to the agouti and the Guinea pig. 

PACABLE:  Placable. [R.]  Coleridge. 

PACANE:  A species of hickory. See Pecan. 

PACATE:  Appeased; pacified; tranquil. [R.] 

PACATED:  Pacified; pacate. 

PACATION:  The act of pacifying; a peacemaking.  Coleridge. 

PACER:  One who, or that which, paces; especially, a horse that paces. 

PACHACAMAC:  A divinity worshiped by the ancient Peruvians as the creator of the universe. 

PACHAK:  The fragrant roots of the Saussurea Costus, exported from India to China, and used for burning as incense. It is supposed to be the costus of the ancients. [Written also putchuck.] 

PACHALIC:  See Pashalic.  PACHISI; PARCHESI; PARCHISI; PARCHEESI Pa*chi"si, n. Commonly spelt Par*che"si, Par*chi"si, Par*chee"si.  A game adopted from the Indian game, using disks, as of pasteboard, and dice. [U. S. & Eng.]  PACHISI; PARCHESI Pa*chi"si, Par*che"si, n. [Hind., fr. pachis twenty-five, the highest throw in the game.]  A game, somewhat resembling backgammon, originating in India. 

PACHOMETER:  An instrument for measuring thickness, as of the glass of a mirror, or of paper; a pachymeter. 

PACHONTA:  A substance resembling gutta-percha, and used to adulterate it, obtained from the East Indian tree Isonandra acuminata.  PACHUCA TANK Pa*chu"ca tank. (Metallurgy)  A high and narrow tank, with a central cylinder for the introduction of compressed air, used in the agitation and settling of pulp (pulverized ore and water) during treatment by the cyanide process; -- so named because, though originally devised in New Zealand, it was first practically introduced in Pachuca, Mexico.  PACHY- Pach"y-. [Gr.  thick.]  A combining form meaning thick; as, pachyderm, pachydactyl. 

PACHYCARPOUS:  Having the pericarp thick. 

PACHYDACTYL:  A bird or other animal having thick toes. 

PACHYDACTYLOUS:  Having thick toes. 

PACHYDERM:  One of the Pachydermata. 

PACHYDERMAL:  Of or relating to the pachyderms; as, pachydermal dentition. 

PACHYDERMATA:  A group of hoofed mammals distinguished for the thickness of their skins, including the elephant, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, tapir, horse, and hog. It is now considered an artificial group. 

PACHYDERMOID:  Related to the pachyderms. 

PACHYGLOSSAL:  Having a thick tongue; --applied to a group of lizards (Pachyglossæ), including the iguanas and agamas. 

PACHYMENINGITIS:  Inflammation of the dura mater or outer membrane of the brain. 

PACHYMETER:  Same as Pachometer. 

PACHYOTE:  One of a family of bats, including those which have thick external ears. 

PACIFIABLE:  Capable of being pacified or appeased; placable. 

PACIFIC:  Of or pertaining to peace; suited to make or restore peace; of a peaceful character; not warlike; not quarrelsome; conciliatory; as, pacific words or acts; a pacific nature or condition.  Pacific Ocean, the ocean between America and Asia, so called by Magellan, its first European navigator, on account of the exemption from violent tempests which he enjoyed while sailing over it; -- called also, simply, the Pacific, and, formerly, the South sea.  Syn. -- Peacemaking; appeasing; conciliatory; tranquil; calm; quiet; peaceful; reconciling; mild; gentle. 

PACIFICABLE:  Placable. [R.]  Bp. Hall. 

PACIFICAL:  Of or pertaining to peace; pacific. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. -- Pa*cif"ic*al*ly, adv. [R.] 

PACIFICATION:  The act or process of pacifying, or of making peace between parties at variance; reconciliation. "An embassy of pacification." Bacon. 

PACIFICATOR:  One who, or that which, pacifies; a peacemaker.  Bacon. 

PACIFICATORY:  Tending to make peace; conciliatory.  Barrow. 

PACIFICO:  A peaceful person; -- applied specif. by the Spaniards to the natives in Cuba and the Philippine Islands who did not oppose the Spanish arms.  While we were going through the woods one of the pacificos pointed to a new grave. Harper's Weekly. 

PACIFIER:  One who pacifies. 

PACIFY:  To make to be at peace; to appease; to calm; to still; to quiet; to allay the agitation, excitement, or resentment of; to tranquillize; as, to pacify a man when angry; to pacify pride, appetite, or importunity. "Pray ye, pacify yourself." Shak.  To pacify and settle those countries. Bacon. 

PACINIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Filippo Pacini, an Italian physician of the 19th century.  Pacinian corpuscles, small oval bodies terminating some of the minute branches of the sensory nerves in the integument and other parts of the body. They are supposed to be tactile organs. 

PACK:  To envelop in a wet or dry sheet, within numerous coverings. See Pack, n., 5.  10. (Mech.)  To render impervious, as by filling or surrounding with suitable material, or to fit or adjust so as to move without giving passage to air, water, or steam; as, to pack a joint; to pack the piston of a steam engine. 

PACKER:  A person whose business is to pack things; especially, one who packs food for preservation; as, a pork packer. 

PACKET:  To ply with a packet or dispatch boat. 

PACKFONG:  A Chinese alloy of nickel, zinc, and copper, resembling German silver.  PACK HERSE Pack herse.  See under 2d Pack. 

PACKHOUSE:  Warehouse for storing goods. 

PACKING:  A substance or piece used to make a joint impervious; as: (a) A thin layer, or sheet, of yielding or elastic material inserted between the surfaces of a flange joint. (b) The substance in a stuffing box, through which a piston rod slides. (c) A yielding ring, as of metal, which surrounds a piston and maintains a tight fit, as inside a cylinder, etc.  3. (Masonry)  Same as Filling. [Rare in the U. S.]  4. A trick; collusion. [Obs.] Bale. Cherd packing (Bridge Building), the arrangement, side by side, of several parts, as bars, diagonals, a post, etc., on a pin at the bottom of a chord. Waddell.  -- Packing box, a stuffing box. See under Stuffing.  -- Packing press, a powerful press for baling cotton, wool, hay, etc.  -- Packing ring. See Packing, 2 (c), and Illust. of Piston.  -- Packing sheet. (a) A large cloth for packing goods. (b) A sheet prepared for packing hydropathic patients. 

PACKMAN:  One who bears a pack; a peddler.  PACK SADDLE; PACK THREAD Pack saddle, Pack thread.  See under 2d Pack. 

PACKWAX:  Same as Paxwax. 

PACKWAY:  A path, as over mountains, followed by pack animals.  PACO; PACOS Pa"co, Pa"cos, n. Etym: [Sp. paco, fr. Peruv. paco. Cf. Alpaca.]  1. (Zoöl.)  Same as Alpaca.  2. Etym: [Peruv. paco, pacu, red, reddish, reddish ore containing silver; perh. a different word.] (Min.)  An earthy-looking ore, consisting of brown oxide of iron with minute particles of native silver. Ure. 

PACT:  An agreement; a league; a compact; a covenant. Bacon. The engagement and pact of society whish goes by the name of the constitution. Burke. 

PACTION:  An agreement; a compact; a bargain. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

PACTIONAL:  Of the nature of, or by means of, a paction. Bp. Sanderson. 

PACTITIOUS:  Setted by a pact, or agreement. [R.] Johnson. 

PACTOLIAN:  Pertaining to the Pactolus, a river in ancient Lydia famous for its golden sands. 

PACU:  A South American freah-water fish (Myleies pacu), of the family Characinidæ. It is highly esteemed as food. 

PAD:  To travel upon foot; to tread. [Obs.] Padding the streets for half a crown. Somerville. 

PAD:  A cushionlike thickening of the skin one the under side of the toes of animals.  6. A floating leaf of a water lily or similar plant.  7. (Med.)  A soft bag or cushion to relieve pressure, support a part, etc.  8. (Naut.)  A piece of timber fixed on a beam to fit the curve of the deck. W. C. Russel.  9. A measure for fish; as, sixty mackerel go to a pad; a basket of soles. [Eng.] Simmonds. Pad cloth, a saddlecloth; a housing.  -- Pad saddle. See def. 3, above.  -- Pad tree (Harness Making), a piece of wood or metal which gives rigidity and shape to a harness pad. Knight. 

PAD:  To imbue uniformly with a mordant; as, to pad cloth. Ure. 

PADAR:  Groats; coarse flour or meal. [Obs.] Sir. H. Wotton. 

PADDING:  The uniform impregnation of cloth with a mordant. 

PADDLE:  A paddle-shaped foot, as of the sea turtle.  6. A paddle-shaped implement for string or mixing.  7. Etym: [In this sense prob. for older spaddle, a dim. of spade.]  See Paddle staff (b), below. [Prov. Eng.] Paddle beam (Shipbuilding), one of two large timbers supporting the spring beam and paddle box of a steam vessel.  -- Paddle board. See Paddle, n., 3.  -- Paddle box, the structure inclosing the upper part of the paddle wheel of a steam vessel.  -- Paddle shaft, the revolving shaft which carries the paddle wheel of a steam vessel.  -- Paddle staff. (a) A staff tipped with a broad blade, used by mole catchers. [Prov. Eng.] (b) A long-handled spade used to clean a plowshare; -- called also plow staff. [Prov. Eng.] -- Paddle steamer, a steam vessel propelled by paddle wheels, in distinction from a screw propeller.  -- Paddle wheel, the propelling wheel of a steam vessel, having paddles (or floats) on its circumference, and revolving in a vertical plane parallel to the vessel's length. 

PADDLECOCK:  The lumpfish. [Prov. Eng.] 

PADDLEFISH:  A large ganoid fish (Polyodon spathula) found in the rivers of the Mississippi Valley. It has a long spatula-shaped snout. Called also duck-billed cat, and spoonbill sturgeon. 

PADDLER:  One who, or that which, paddles. 

PADDLER:  One who, or that which, paddles. 

PADDLEWOOD:  The light elastic wood of the Aspidosperma excelsum, a tree of Guiana having a fluted trunk readily split into planks. 

PADDOCK:  A toad or frog. Wyclif. "Loathed paddocks." Spenser Paddock pipe (Bot.), a hollow-stemmed plant of the genus Equisetum, especially E. limosum and the fruiting stems of E. arvense; -- called also padow pipe and toad pipe. See Equisetum.  -- Paddock stone. See Toadstone.  -- Paddock stool (Bot.),a toadstool. 

PADDY:  Low; mean; boorish; vagabond. "Such pady persons." Digges (1585). "The paddy persons." Motley. 

PADDY:  A jocose or contemptuous name for an Irishman. 

PADDY:  Unhusked rice; -- commonly so called in the East Indies. Paddy bird. (Zoöl.) See Java sparrow, under Java.  PAD ELEPHANT Pad elephant.  An elephant that is furnished with a pad for carrying burdens instead of with a howdah for carrying passengers. 

PADELION:  A plant with pedately lobed leaves; the lady's mantle. 

PADELLA:  A large cup or deep saucer, containing fatty matter in which a wick is placed, -- used for public illuminations, as at St. Peter's, in Rome. Called also padelle. 

PADEMELON:  See Wallaby. 

PADESOY:  See Paduasoy. 

PADGE:  The barn owl; -- called also pudge, and pudge owl. [Prov. Eng.] 

PADISHAH:  Chief ruler; monarch; sovereign; -- a title of the Sultan of Turkey, and of the Shah of Persia. 

PADLOCK:  To fasten with, or as with, a padlock; to stop; to shut; to confine as by a padlock. Milton. Tennyson. 

PADNAG:  An ambling nag. "An easy padnag." Macaulay. 

PADOW:  A paddock, or toad. Padow pipe. (Bot.) See Paddock pipe, under Paddock. 

PADUASOY:  A rich and heavy silk stuff. [Written also padesoy.] 

PADUCAHS:  See Comanches. 

PAEDOBAPTISM:  Pedobaptism. 

PAEDOGENESIS:  Reproduction by young or larval animals. 

PAEDOGENETIC:  Producing young while in the immature or larval state; -- said of certain insects, etc. 

PAEON:  A foot of four syllables, one long and three short, admitting of four combinations, according to the place of the long syllable. [Written also, less correctly, pæan.] 

PAEONINE:  An artifical red nitrogenous dyestuff, called also red coralline. 

PAEONY:  See Peony. 

PAGAN:  One who worships false goods; an idolater; a heathen; one who is neither a Christian, a Mohammedan, nor a Jew. Neither having the accent of Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man. Shak.  Syn.  -- Gentile; heathen; idolater.  -- Pagan, Gentile, Heathen. Gentile was applied to the other nations of the earth as distinguished from the Jews. Pagan was the name given to idolaters in the early Christian church, because the villagers, being most remote from the centers of instruction, remained for a long time unconverted. Heathen has the same origin. Pagan is now more properly applied to rude and uncivilized idolaters, while heathen embraces all who practice idolatry. 

PAGAN:  Of or pertaining to pagans; relating to the worship or the worshipers of false goods; heathen; idolatrous, as, pagan tribes or superstitions. And all the rites of pagan honor paid. Dryden. 

PAGANDOM:  The pagan lands; pagans, collectively; paganism. [R.]  PAGANIC; PAGANICAL Pa*gan"ic, Pa*gan"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to pagans or paganism; heathenish; paganish. [R.] "The paganic fables of the goods." Cudworth.  -- Pa*gan"ic*al*ly, adv. [R.] 

PAGANISH:  Of or pertaining to pagans; heathenish. "The old paganish idolatry." Sharp 

PAGANISM:  The state of being pagan; pagan characteristics; esp., the worship of idols or false gods, or the system of religious opinions and worship maintained by pagans; heathenism. 

PAGANITY:  The state of being a pagan; paganism. [R.] Cudworth. 

PAGANIZE:  To render pagan or heathenish; to convert to paganism. Hallywell. 

PAGANIZE:  To behave like pagans. Milton. 

PAGANLY:  In a pagan manner. Dr. H. More. 

PAGE:  A track along which pallets carrying newly molded bricks are conveyed to the hack.  5. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of beautiful South American moths of the genus Urania. 

PAGE:  To attend (one) as a page. [Obs.] Shak. 

PAGE:  The type set up for printing a page. 

PAGE:  To mark or number the pages of, as a book or manuskript; to furnish with folios. 

PAGEANT:  Of the nature of a pageant; spectacular. "Pageant pomp." Dryden. 

PAGEANT:  To exhibit in show; to represent; to mimic. [R.] "He pageants us." Shak. 

PAGEANTRY:  Scenic shows or spectacles, taken collectivelly; spectacular guality; splendor. Such pageantry be to the people shown. Dryden. The pageantry of festival. J. A. Symonds.  Syn.  -- Pomp; parade; show; display; spectacle. 

PAGEHOOD:  The state of being a page. 

PAGINA:  The surface of a leaf or of a flattened thallus. 

PAGINAL:  Consisting of pages. "Paginal books." Sir T. Browne. 

PAGINATION:  The act or process of paging a book; also, the characters used in numbering the pages; page number. Lowndes. 

PAGING:  The marking or numbering of the pages of a book. 

PAGODA:  A gold or silver coin, of various kinds and values, formerly current in India. The Madras gold pagoda was worth about three and a half rupees.  PAGODA SLEEVE Pa*go"da sleeve. (Costume)  A funnel-shaped sleeve arranged to show the sleeve lining and an inner sleeve. 

PAGODITE:  Agalmatolite; -- so called because sometimes carved by the Chinese into the form of pagodas. See Agalmatolite. 

PAGUMA:  Any one of several species of East Indian viverrine mammals of the genus Paguma. They resemble a weasel in form. 

PAGURIAN:  Any one of a tribe of anomuran crustaceans, of which Pagurus is a type; the hermit crab. See Hermit crab, under Hermit. 

PAH:  An exclamation expressing disgust or contempt. See Bah. Fie! fie! fie! pah! pah! Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to sweeten my imagination. Shak. 

PAH:  A kind of stockaded intrenchment. [New Zealand.] Farrow. 

PAHI:  A large war canoe of the Society Islands. 

PAHLEVI:  Same as Pehlevi. 

PAHOEHOE:  A name given in the Sandwich Islands to lava having a relatively smooth surface, in distinction from the rough-surfaced lava, called a-a. 

PAHUTES:  See Utes. 

PAIDEUTICS:  The science or art of teaching. 

PAIEN:  Pagan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PAIGLE:  A species of Primula, either the cowslip or the primrose. [Written also pagle, pagil, peagle, and pygil.] 

PAIJAMA:  Pyjama. 

PAIL:  A vessel of wood or tin, etc., usually cylindrical and having a bail, -- used esp. for carrying liquids, as water or milk, etc.; a bucket. It may, or may not, have a cover. Shak. 

PAILFUL:  The quantity that a pail will hold. "By pailfuls." Shak. 

PAILLASSE:  An under bed or mattress of straw. [Written also palliasse.] 

PAILLON:  A thin leaf of metal, as for use in gilding or enameling, or to show through a translucent medium. 

PAILMALL:  See Pall-mall. [Obs.] 

PAIN:  Specifically, the throes or travail of childbirth. She bowed herself and travailed, for her pains came upon her. 1 Sam. iv. 19.  4. Uneasiness of mind; mental distress; disquietude; anxiety; grief; solicitude; anguish. Chaucer. In rapture as in pain. Keble.  5. See Pains, labor, effort. Bill of pains and penalties. See under Bill.  -- To die in the pain, to be tortured to death. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PAINABLE:  Causing pain; painful. [Obs.] The manacles of Astyages were not . . . the less weighty and painable for being composed of gold or silver. Evelyn. 

PAINIM:  A pagan; an infidel; -- used also adjectively. [Written also panim and paynim.] Peacham. 

PAINLESS:  Free from pain; without pain.  -- Pain"less*ly, adv.  -- Pain"less*ness, n. 

PAINS:  Labor; toilsome effort; care or trouble taken; -- plural in form, but used with a singular or plural verb, commonly the former. And all my pains is sorted to no proof. Shak. The pains they had taken was very great. Clarendon. The labored earth your pains have sowed and tilled. Dryden. 

PAINSTAKER:  One who takes pains; one careful and faithful in all work. Gay. 

PAINSTAKING:  Careful in doing; diligent; faithful; attentive. "Painstaking men." Harris. 

PAINSTAKING:  The act of taking pains; carefulness and fidelity in performance. Beau. & Fl. 

PAINSWORTHY:  Worth the pains o 

PAINTED:  Marked with bright colors; as, the painted turtle; painted bunting. Painted beauty (Zoöl.), a handsome American butterfly (Vanessa Huntera), having a variety of bright colors, -- Painted cup (Bot.), any plant of an American genus of herbs (Castilleia) in which the bracts are usually bright-colored and more showy than the flowers. Castilleia coccinea has brilliantly scarlet bracts, and is common in meadows.  -- Painted finch. See Nonpareil.  -- Painted lady (Zoöl.), a bright-colored butterfly. See Thistle butterfly.  -- Painted turtle (Zoöl.), a common American freshwater tortoise (Chrysemys picta), having bright red and yellow markings beneath. 

PAINTER:  A rope at the bow of a boat, used to fasten it to anything. Totten. 

PAINTER:  The panther, or puma. [A form representing an illiterate pronunciation, U. S.] J. F. Cooper. 

PAINTER:  One whose occupation is to paint; esp.: (a) One who covers buildings, ships, ironwork, and the like, with paint. (b) An artist who represents objects or scenes in color on a flat surface, as canvas, plaster, or the like. Painter's colic. (Med.) See Lead colic, under Colic.  -- Painter stainer. (a) A painter of coats of arms. Crabb. (b) A member of a livery company or guild in London, bearing this name. 

PAINTERLY:  Like a painter's work. [Obs.] "A painterly glose of a visage." Sir P. Sidney. 

PAINTERSHIP:  The state or position of being a painter. [R.] Br. Gardiner. 

PAINTING:  The work of the painter; also, any work of art in which objects are represented in color on a flat surface; a colored representation of any object or scene; a picture.  3. Color laid on; paint. [R.] Shak.  4. A depicting by words; vivid representation in words.  Syn.  -- See Picture. 

PAINTLESS:  Not capable of being painted or described. "In paintless patience." Savage. 

PAINTURE:  The art of painting. [Obs.] Chaucer. Dryden. 

PAINTY:  Unskillfully painted, so that the painter's method of work is too obvious; also, having too much pigment applied to the surface. [Cant] 

PAIR:  In a mechanism, two elements, or bodies, which are so applied to each other as to mutually constrain relative motion.  Note: Pairs are named in accordance with the kind of motion they permit; thus, a journal and its bearing form a turning pair, a cylinder and its piston a sliding pair, a screw and its nut a twisting pair, etc. Any pair in which the constraining contact is along lines or at points only (as a cam and roller acting together), is designated a higher pair; any pair having constraining surfaces which fit each other (as a cylindrical pin and eye, a screw and its nut, etc.), is called a lower pair. Pair royal (pl. Pairs Royal) three things of a sort; -- used especially of playing cards in some games, as cribbage; as three kings, three "eight spots" etc. Four of a kind are called a double pair royal. "Something in his face gave me as much pleasure as a pair royal of naturals in my own hand." Goldsmith. "That great pair royal of adamantine sisters [the Fates]." Quarles. [Written corruptly parial and prial.]  Syn.  -- Pair, Flight, Set. Originally, pair was not confined to two things, but was applied to any number of equal things (pares), that go together. Ben Jonson speaks of a pair (set) of chessmen; also, he and Lord Bacon speak of a pair (pack) of cards. A "pair of stairs" is still in popular use, as well as the later expression, "flight of stairs." 

PAIR:  To impair. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PAIRER:  One who impairs. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

PAIRMENT:  Impairment. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

PAIS:  The country; the people of the neighborhood.  Note: A trial per pais is a trial by the country, that is, by a jury; and matter in pais is matter triable by the country, or jury. 

PAISANO:  The chaparral cock. 

PAISE:  See Poise. Chapman. 

PAJAMAS:  Originally, in India, loose drawers or trousers, such as those worn, tied about the waist, by Mohammedan men and women; by extension, a similar garment adopted among Europeans, Americans, etc., for wear in the dressing room and during sleep; also, a suit consisting of drawers and a loose upper garment for such wear. 

PAJOCK:  A peacock. [Obs.] Shak. 

PAKFONG:  See Packfong. 

PAL:  A mate; a partner; esp., an accomplice or confederate. [Slang] 

PALACIOUS:  Palatial. [Obs.] Graunt. 

PALADIN:  A knight-errant; a distinguished champion; as, the paladins of Charlemagne. Sir W. Scott.  PALAEO- Pa"læ*o-.  See Paleo-.  PALAEOGRAPHER; PALAEOGRAPHIC Pa`læ*og"ra*pher, n., Pa`læ*o*graph"ic (, a., etc.  See Paleographer, Paleographic, etc. 

PALAEOTYPE:  A system of representing all spoken sounds by means of the printing types in common use. Ellis.  -- Pa`læ*o*typ"ic*al, a.  -- Pa`læ*o*typ"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PALAESTRA:  See Palestra. 

PALAESTRIC:  See Palestric. 

PALAETIOLOGIST:  One versed in palætiology. 

PALAETIOLOGY:  The science which explains, by the law of causation, the past condition and changes of the earth.  -- Pa*læ`ti*o*log"ic*al, a. 

PALAMA:  A membrane extending between the toes of a bird, and uniting them more or less closely together. 

PALAMATE:  Web-footed. 

PALAMEDEAE:  An order, or suborder, including the kamichi, and allied South American birds; -- called also screamers. In many anatomical characters they are allied to the Anseres, but they externally resemble the wading birds. 

PALAMPORE:  See Palempore. 

PALANKA:  A camp permanently intrenched, attached to Turkish frontier fortresses. 

PALANQUIN:  An inclosed carriage or litter, commonly about eight feet long, four feet wide, and four feet high, borne on the shoulders of men by means of two projecting poles, -- used in India, China, etc., for the conveyance of a single person from place to place. [Written also palankeen.] 

PALAPTERYX:  A large extinct ostrichlike bird of New Zealand. 

PALATABILITY:  Palatableness. 

PALATABLE:  Agreeable to the palate or taste; savory; hence, acceptable; pleasing; as, palatable food; palatable advice. 

PALATABLENESS:  The quality or state of being agreeable to the taste; relish; acceptableness. 

PALATABLY:  In a palatable manner. 

PALATAL:  Uttered by the aid of the palate; -- said of certain sounds, as the sound of k in kirk. 

PALATAL:  A sound uttered, or a letter pronounced, by the aid of the palate, as the letters k and y. 

PALATALIZE:  To palatize. 

PALATE:  The roof of the mouth.  Note: The fixed portion, or palate proper, supported by the maxillary and palatine bones, is called the hard palate to distinguish it from the membranous and muscular curtain which separates the cavity of the mouth from the pharynx and is called the soft palate, or velum.  2. Relish; taste; liking; -- a sense originating in the mistaken notion that the palate is the organ of taste. Hard task! to hit the palate of such guests. Pope.  3. Fig.: Mental relish; intellectual taste. T. Baker.  4. (Bot.)  A projection in the throat of such flowers as the snapdragon. 

PALATE:  To perceive by the taste. [Obs.] Shak. 

PALATIAL:  Of or pertaining to a palace; suitable for a palace; resembling a palace; royal; magnificent; as, palatial structures. "Palatial style." A. Drummond. 

PALATIAL:  Palatal; palatine. [Obs.] Barrow. 

PALATIAL:  A palatal letter. [Obs.] Sir W. Jones. 

PALATIC:  Palatal; palatine. 

PALATIC:  A palatal. [R.] 

PALATINATE:  The province or seigniory of a palatine; the dignity of a palatine. Howell. 

PALATINATE:  To make a palatinate of. [Obs.] Fuller. 

PALATINE:  Of or pertaining to a palace, or to a high officer of a palace; hence, possessing royal privileges. Count palatine, County palatine. See under Count, and County.  -- Palatine hill, or The palatine, one of the seven hills of Rome, once occupied by the palace of the Cæsars. See Palace. 

PALATINE:  Of or pertaining to the palate. Palatine bones (Anat.), a pair of bones (often united in the adult) in the root of the mouth, back of and between the maxillaries. 

PALATINE:  , (Anat.) A palatine bone. 

PALATIVE:  Pleasing to the taste; palatable. [Obs.] "Palative delights." Sir T. Browne. 

PALATIZE:  To modify, as the tones of the voice, by means of the palate; as, to palatize a letter or sound.  -- Pal`a*ti*za"tion, n. J. Peile.  PALATO- Pal"a*to-. Etym: [From Palate.]  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate relation to, or connection with, the palate; as in palatolingual. 

PALATONARES:  The posterior nares. See Nares. 

PALATOPTERYGOID:  Pertaining to the palatine and pterygoid region of the skull; as, the palatopterygoid cartilage, or rod, from which the palatine and pterygoid bones are developed. 

PALAVER:  To make palaver with, or to; to used palaver;to talk idly or deceitfully; to employ flattery; to cajole; as, to palaver artfully. Palavering the little language for her benefit. C. Bront 

PALAVERER:  One who palavers; a flatterer. 

PALE:  Paleness; pallor. [R.] Shak. 

PALE:  To turn pale; to lose color or luster. Whittier. Apt to pale at a trodden worm. Mrs. Browning. 

PALE:  To make pale; to diminish the brightness of. The glowpale his uneffectual fire. Shak. 

PALE:  One of the greater ordinaries, being a broad perpendicular stripe in an escutcheon, equally distant from the two edges, and occupying one third of it.  6. A cheese scoop. Simmonds.  7. (Shipbuilding)  A shore for bracing a timber before it is fastened. English pale (Hist.), the limits or territory within which alone the English conquerors of Ireland held dominion for a long period after their invasion of the country in 1172. Spencer. 

PALE:  To inclose with pales, or as with pales; to encircle; to encompass; to fence off. [Your isle, which stands] ribbed and paled in With rocks unscalable and roaring waters. Shak. 

PALEA:  A pendulous process of the skin on the throat of a bird, as in the turkey; a dewlap. 

PALEACEOUS:  Chaffy; resembling or consisting of paleæ, or chaff; furnished with chaff; as, a paleaceous receptacle. 

PALEARCTIC:  Belonging to a region of the earth's surface which includes all Europe to the Azores, Iceland, and all temperate Asia. 

PALEECHINOIDEA:  An extinct order of sea urchins found in the Paleozoic rocks. They had more than twenty vertical rows of plates. Called also Palæechini. [Written also Palæechinoidea.] 

PALEFACE:  A white person; -- an appellation supposed to have been applied to the whites by the American Indians. J. F. Cooper. 

PALEICHTHYES:  A comprehensive division of fishes which includes the elasmobranchs and ganoids. [Written also Palæichthyes.] 

PALELY:  In a pale manner; dimly; wanly; not freshly or ruddily. Thackeray. 

PALEMPORE:  A superior kind of dimity made in India, -- used for bed coverings. [Written also palampore, palampoor, etc.] De Colange. 

PALENESS:  The quality or condition of being pale; want of freshness or ruddiness; a sickly whiteness; lack of color or luster; wanness. The blood the virgin's cheek forsook; A livid paleness spreads o'er all her look. Pope. 

PALENQUE:  A collective name for the Indians of Nicaragua and Honduras.  PALEO- Pa"le*o-. Etym: [Gr. , adj.]  A combining form meaning old, ancient; as, palearctic, paleontology, paleothere, paleography. [Written also palæo-.] 

PALEOBOTANIST:  One versed in paleobotany. 

PALEOBOTANY:  That branch of paleontology which treats of fossil plants. 

PALEOCARIDA:  Same as Merostomata. [Written also Palæocarida.] 

PALEOCRINOIDEA:  A suborder of Crinoidea found chiefly in the Paleozoic rocks. 

PALEOCRYSTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, a former glacial formation. 

PALEOGAEAN:  Of or pertaining to the Eastern hemisphere. [Written also palæogæan.] 

PALEOGRAPH:  An ancient manuscript. 

PALEOGRAPHER:  One skilled in paleography; a paleographist.  PALEOGRAPHIC; PALEOGRAPHICAL Pa`le*o*graph"ic, Pa`le*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. paléographique.]  Of or pertaining to paleography. 

PALEOGRAPHIST:  One versed in paleography; a paleographer. 

PALEOLA:  A diminutive or secondary palea; a lodicule. 

PALEOLITH:  A relic of the Paleolithic era. 

PALEOLITHIC:  Of or pertaining to an era marked by early stone implements. The Paleolithic era (as proposed by Lubbock) includes the earlier half of the "Stone Age;" the remains belonging to it are for the most part of extinct animals, with relics of human beings. 

PALEOLOGIST:  One versed in paleology; a student of antiquity. 

PALEOLOGY:  The study or knowledge of antiquities, esp. of prehistoric antiquities; a discourse or treatise on antiquities; archæology . 

PALEONTOGRAPHICAL:  Of or pertaining to the description of fossil remains. 

PALEONTOGRAPHY:  The description of fossil remains. 

PALEONTOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to paleontology.  -- Pa`le*on`to*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PALEONTOLOGIST:  One versed in paleontology. 

PALEONTOLOGY:  The science which treats of the ancient life of the earth, or of fossils which are the remains of such life. 

PALEOPHYTOLOGIST:  A paleobotanist. 

PALEOPHYTOLOGY:  Paleobotany. 

PALEORNITHOLOGY:  The branch of paleontology which treats of fossil birds. 

PALEOSAURUS:  A genus of fossil saurians found in the Permian formation. 

PALEOTECHNIC:  Belonging to, or connected with, ancient art. "The paleotechnic men of central France." D. Wilson. 

PALEOTHERE:  Any species of Paleotherium. 

PALEOTHERIAN:  Of or pertaining to Paleotherium. 

PALEOTHERIUM:  An extinct genus of herbivorous Tertiary mammals, once supposed to have resembled the tapir in form, but now known to have had a more slender form, with a long neck like that of a llama. [Written also Palæotherium.] 

PALEOTHEROID:  Resembling Paleotherium.  -- n.  An animal resembling, or allied to, the paleothere. 

PALEOTYPE:  See Palæotype. 

PALEOUS:  Chaffy; like chaff; paleaceous. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PALEOZOIC:  Of or pertaining to, or designating, the older division of geological time during which life is known to have existed, including the Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous ages, and also to the life or rocks of those ages. See Chart of Geology.  PALEOZOIC ERA Pa`le*o*zo*ic e*ra, n. (Geol.)  The Paleozoic time or strata.  PALEOZOOLOGY; PALEOZOOELOGY Pa`le*o*zo*öl"o*gy, n. Etym: [Paleo- + zoölogy.]  The science of extinct animals, a branch of paleontology.  PALESIE; PALESY Pale"sie, Pale"sy, n.  Palsy. [Obs.] Wyclif.  PALESTINIAN; PALESTINEAN Pal`es*tin"i*an, Pal`es*tin"e*an, a.  Of or pertaining to Palestine. 

PALESTRA:  Of or pertaining to the palestra, or to wrestling. 

PALET:  Same as Palea. 

PALET:  A perpendicular band upon an escutcheon, one half the breadth of the pale. 

PALETTE:  A thin, oval or square board, or tablet, with a thumb hole at one end for holding it, on which a painter lays and mixes his pigments. [Written also pallet.]  2. (Anc. Armor)  One of the plates covering the points of junction at the bend of the shoulders and elbows. Fairholt.  3. (Mech.)  A breastplate for a breast drill. Palette knife, a knife with a very flexible steel blade and no cutting edge, rounded at the end, used by painters to mix colors on the grinding slab or palette.  -- To set the palette (Paint.), to lay upon it the required pigments in a certain order, according to the intended use of them in a picture. Fairholt. 

PALEWISE:  In the manner of a pale or pales; by perpendicular lines or divisions; as, to divide an escutcheon palewise. 

PALFREYED:  Mounted on a palfrey. Tickell. 

PALGRAVE:  See Palsgrave. 

PALI:  pl. of Palus. 

PALI:  A dialect descended from Sanskrit, and like that, a dead language, except when used as the sacred language of the Buddhist religion in Farther India, etc. 

PALIFICATION:  The act or practice of driving piles or posts into the ground to make it firm. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. 

PALIFORM:  Resembling a palus; as, the paliform lobes of the septa in corals. 

PALILOGY:  The repetition of a word, or part of a sentence, for the sake of greater emphasis; as, "The living, the living, he shall praise thee." Is. xxxviii. 19. 

PALIMPSEST:  A parchment which has been written upon twice, the first writing having been erased to make place for the second. Longfellow. 

PALINDROME:  A word, verse, or sentence, that is the same when read backward or forward; as, madam; Hannah; or Lewd did I live, & evil I did dwel.  PALINDROMIC; PALINDROMICAL Pal`in*drom"ic, Pal`in*drom"ic*al, a.  Of, pertaining to, or like, a palindrome. 

PALINDROMIST:  A writer of palindromes. 

PALINGENESIA:  See Palingenesis.  PALINGENESIS; PALINGENESY Pal`in*gen"e*sis, Pal`in*gen"e*sy, n. Etym: [Gr. palingénésie. See Genesis.]  1. A new birth; a re-creation; a regeneration; a continued existence in different manner or form.  2. (Biol.)  That form of evolution in which the truly ancestral characters conserved by heredity are reproduced in development; original simple descent; -- distinguished from kenogenesis. Sometimes, in zoölogy, the abrupt metamorphosis of insects, crustaceans, etc. 

PALINGENETIC:  Of or pertaining to palingenesis: as, a palingenetic process.  -- Pal`in*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PALINODIAL:  Of or pertaining to a palinode, or retraction. J. Q. Adams. 

PALINODY:  See Palinode. [Obs.] Wood. 

PALINURUS:  An instrument for obtaining directly, without calculation, the true bearing of the sun, and thence the variation of the compass 

PALISADE:  A strong, long stake, one end of which is set firmly in the ground, and the other is sharpened; also, a fence formed of such stakes set in the ground as a means of defense.  2. Any fence made of pales or sharp stakes. Palisade cells (Bot.), vertically elongated parenchyma cells, such as are seen beneath the epidermis of the upper surface of many leaves.  -- Palisade worm (Zoöl.), a nematoid worm (Strongylus armatus), parasitic in the blood vessels of the horse, in which it produces aneurisms, often fatal. 

PALISADE:  To surround, inclose, or fortify, with palisades. 

PALISADING:  ) A row of palisades set in the ground. 

PALISADO:  A palisade. [Obs.] Shak. 

PALISADO:  To palisade. [Obs.] Sterne. 

PALISH:  Somewhat pale or wan. 

PALISSY:  Designating, or of the nature of, a kind of pottery made by Bernard Palissy, in France, in the 16th centry. Palissy ware, glazed pottery like that made by Bernard Palissy; especially, that having figures of fishes, reptiles, etc., in high relief. 

PALKEE:  A palanquin. Malcom. 

PALL:  Same as Pawl. 

PALL:  Same as Pallium. About this time Pope Gregory sent two archbishop's palls into England, -- the one for London, the other for York. Fuller.  4. (Her.)  A figure resembling the Roman Catholic pallium, or pall, and having the form of the letter Y.  5. A large cloth, esp., a heavy black cloth, thrown over a coffin at a funeral; sometimes, also, over a tomb. Warriors carry the warrior's pall. Tennyson.  6. (Eccl.)  A piece of cardboard, covered with linen and embroidered on one side; -- used to put over the chalice. 

PALL:  To cloak. [R.] Shak 

PALL:  To become vapid, tasteless, dull, or insipid; to lose strength, life, spirit, or taste; as, the liquor palls. Beauty soon grows familiar to the lover, Fades in the eye, and palls upon the sense. Addisin. 

PALL:  Nausea. [Obs.] Shaftesbury. 

PALLA:  An oblong rectangular piece of cloth, worn by Roman ladies, and fastened with brooches. 

PALLADIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a variety of the revived classic style of architecture, founded on the works of Andrea Palladio, an Italian architect of the 16th century. 

PALLADIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, palladium; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with palladious compounds. 

PALLADIOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, palladium; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which palladium has a lower valence as compared with palladic compounds. 

PALLADIUM:  Any statue of the goddess Pallas; esp., the famous statue on the preservation of which depended the safety of ancient Troy.  2. Hence: That which affords effectual protection or security; a sateguard; as, the trial by jury is the palladium of our civil rights. Blackstone. 

PALLADIUM:  A rare metallic element of the light platinum group, found native, and also alloyed with platinum and gold. It is a silver-white metal resembling platinum, and like it permanent and untarnished in the air, but is more easily fusible. It is unique in its power of occluding hydrogen, which it does to the extent of nearly a thousand volumes, forming the alloy Pd2H. It is used for graduated circles and verniers, for plating certain silver goods, and somewhat in dentistry. It was so named in 1804 by Wollaston from the asteroid Pallas, which was discovered in 1802. Symbol Pd. Atomic weight, 106.2. 

PALLADIUMIZE:  To cover or coat with palladium. [R.] 

PALLAH:  A large South African antelope (Æpyceros melampus). The male has long lyrate and annulated horns. The general color is bay, with a black crescent on the croup. Called also roodebok. 

PALLAS:  Pallas Athene, the Grecian goddess of wisdom, called also Athene, and identified, at a later period, with the Roman Minerva. 

PALLBEARER:  One of those who attend the coffin at a funeral; -- so called from the pall being formerly carried by them. 

PALLET:  A small and mean bed; a bed of straw. Milton. 

PALLET:  Same as Palette.  2. (Pettery) (a) A wooden implement used by potters, crucible makers, etc., for forming, beating, and rounding their works. It is oval, round, and of other forms. (b) A potter's wheel.  3. (Gilding) (a) An instrument used to take up gold leaf from the pillow, and to apply it. (b) A tool for gilding the backs of books over the bands.  4. (Brickmaking)  A board on which a newly molded brick is conveyed to the hack. Knight.  5. (Mach.) (a) A click or pawl for driving a ratchet wheel. (b) One of the series of disks or pistons in the chain pump. Knight.  6. (Horology)  One of the pieces or levers connected with the pendulum of a clock, or the balance of a watch, which receive the immediate impulse of the scape-wheel, or balance wheel. Brande & C.  7. (Mus.)  In the organ, a valve between the wind chest and the mouth of a pipe or row of pipes.  8. (Zoöl.)  One of a pair of shelly plates that protect the siphon tubes of certain bivalves, as the Teredo. See Illust. of Teredo.  9. A cup containing three ounces, -- 

PALLIAL:  Of or pretaining to a mantle, especially to the mantle of mollusks; produced by the mantle; as, the pallial line, or impression, which marks the attachment of the mantle on the inner surface of a bivalve shell. See Illust. of Bivalve. Pallial chamber (Zoöl.), the cavity inclosed by the mantle.  -- Pallial sinus (Zoöl.), an inward bending of the pallial line, near the posterior end of certain bivalve shells, to receive the siphon. See Illust. of Bivalve. 

PALLIAMENT:  A dress; a robe. [Obs.] Shak. 

PALLIASSE:  See Paillasse. 

PALLIATIVE:  Serving to palliate; serving to extenuate or mitigate. 

PALLIATIVE:  That which palliates; a palliative agent. Sir W. Scott. 

PALLIATORY:  Palliative; extenuating. 

PALLID:  Deficient in color; pale; wan; as, a pallid countenance; pallid blue. Spenser. 

PALLIDITY:  Pallidness; paleness. 

PALLIDLY:  In a pallid manner. 

PALLIDNESS:  The quality or state of being pallid; paleness; pallor; wanness. 

PALLIOBRANCHIATA:  Same as Brachiopoda. 

PALLIOBRANCHIATE:  Having the pallium, or mantle, acting as a gill, as in brachiopods. 

PALLIUM:  A large, square, woolen cloak which enveloped the whole person, worn by the Greeks and by certain Romans. It is the Roman name of a Greek garment.  2. (R.C.Ch.)  A band of white wool, worn on the shoulders, with four purple crosses worked on it; a pall.  Note: The wool is obtained from two lambs brought to the basilica of St. Agnes, Rome, and blessed. It is worn by the pope, and sent to patriarchs, primates, and archbishops, as a sign that they share in the plenitude of the episcopal office. Befoer it is sent, the pallium is laid on the tomb of St. Peter, where it remains all night.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) The mantle of a bivalve. See Mantle. (b) The mantle of a bird.  PALL-MALL Pall`-mall", n. Etym: [OF. palemail, It. pallamagio; palla a ball (of German origin, akin to E. ball) + magio hammer, fr. L. malleus. See lst Ball, and Mall a beetle.]  A game formerly common in England, in which a wooden ball was driven with a mallet through an elevated hoop or ring of iron. The name was also given to the mallet used, to the place where the game was played, and to the street, in London, still called Pall Mall. [Written also pail-mail and pell-mell.] Sir K. Digby. Evelyn. 

PALLONE:  An Italian game, played with a large leather ball. 

PALLOR:  Paleness; want of color; pallidity; as, pallor of the complexion. Jer. Taylor. 

PALM:  The inner and somewhat concave part of the hand between the bases of the fingers and the wrist. Clench'd her fingers till they bit the palm. Tennyson.  2. A lineal measure equal either to the breadth of the hand or to its length from the wrist to the ends of the fingers; a hand; -- used in measuring a horse's height.  Note: In Greece, the palm was reckoned at three inches. The Romans adopted two measures of this name, the lesser palm of 2.91 inches, and the greater palm of 8.73 inches. At the present day, this measure varies in the most arbitrary manner, being different in each country, and occasionally varying in the same. Internat. Cyc.  3. (Sailmaking)  A metallic disk, attached to a strap, and worn the palm of the hand, -- used to push the needle through the canvas, in sewing sails, etc.  4. (Zoöl.)  The broad flattened part of an antler, as of a full-grown fallow deer; -- so called as resembling the palm of the hand with its protruding fingers.  5. (Naut.)  The flat inner face of an anchor fluke. 

PALM:  Any endogenous tree of the order Palmæ or Palmaceæ; a palm tree.  Note: Palms are perennial woody plants, often of majestic size. The trunk is usually erect and rarely branched, and has a roughened exterior composed of the persistent bases of the leaf stalks. The leaves are borne in a terminal crown, and are supported on stout, sheathing, often prickly, petioles. They are usually of great size, and are either pinnately or palmately many-cleft. There are about one thousand species known, nearly all of them growing in tropical or semitropical regions. The wood, petioles, leaves, sap, and fruit of many species are invaluable in the arts and in domestic economy. Among the best known are the date palm, the cocoa palm, the fan palm, the oil palm, the wax palm, the palmyra, and the various kinds called cabbage palm and palmetto.  2. A branch or leaf of the palm, anciently borne or worn as a symbol of victory or rejoicing. A great multitude . . . stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palme in their hands. Rev. vii. 9.  3. Hence: Any symbol or token of superiority, success, or triumph; also, victory; triumph; supremacy. "The palm of martyrdom." Chaucer. So get the start of the majestic world And bear the palm alone. Shak. Molucca palm (Bot.), a labiate herb from Asia (Molucella lævis), having a curious cup-shaped calyx.  -- Palm cabbage, the terminal bud of a cabbage palm, used as food.  -- Palm cat (Zoöl.), the common paradoxure.  -- Palm crab (Zoöl.), the purse crab.  -- Palm oil, a vegetable oil, obtained from the fruit of several species of palms, as the African oil palm (Elæis Guineensis), and used in the manufacture of soap and candles. See Elæis.  -- Palm swift (Zoöl.), a small swift (Cypselus Btassiensis) which frequents the palmyra and cocoanut palms in India. Its peculiar nest is attached to the leaf of the palmyra palm.  -- Palm toddy. Same as Palm wine.  -- Palm weevil (Zoöl.), any one of mumerous species of very large weevils of the genus Rhynchophorus. The larvæ bore into palm trees, and are called palm borers, and grugru worms. They are considered excellent food.  -- Palm wine, the sap of several species of palms, especially, in India, of the wild date palm (Phoenix sylvestrix), the palmyra, and the Caryota urens. When fermented it yields by distillation arrack, and by evaporation jaggery. Called also palm toddy.  -- Palm worm, or Palmworm. (Zoöl.) (a) The larva of a palm weevil. (b) A centipede. 

PALMACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to palms; of the nature of, or resembling, palms.  PALMA CHRISTI Pal"ma Chris"ti. Etym: [L., palm of Christ.] (Bot.)  A plant (Ricinus communis) with ornamental peltate and palmately cleft foliage, growing as a woody perennial in the tropics, and cultivated as an herbaceous annual in temperate regions; -- called also castor-oil plant. [Sometimes corrupted into palmcrist.] 

PALMACITE:  A fossil palm. 

PALMAR:  Pertaining to, or corresponding with, the palm of the hand.  2. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the under side of the wings of birds. 

PALMARIUM:  One of the bifurcations of the brachial plates of a crinoid. 

PALMARY:  Palmar. 

PALMARY:  Worthy of the palm; palmy; preëminent; superior; principal; chief; as, palmary work. Br. Horne. 

PALMATE:  (Chem.) A salt of palmic acid; a ricinoleate. [Obsoles.]  PALMATE; PALMATED Pal"mate, Pal"ma*ted, a. Etym: [L. palmatus marked with the palm of a hand, from palma the palm of the hand.]  1. Having the shape of the hand; resembling a hand with the fingers spread.  2. (Bot.)  Spreading from the apex of a petiole, as the divisions of a leaf, or leaflets, so as to resemble the hand with outspread fingers. Gray.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) Having the anterior toes united by a web, as in most swimming birds; webbed. See Illust. (i) under Aves. (b) Having the distal portion broad, flat, and more or less divided into lobes; -- said of certain corals, antlers, etc. 

PALMATELY:  In a palmate manner. 

PALMATIFID:  Palmate, with the divisions separated but little more than halfway to the common center. 

PALMATILOBED:  Palmate, with the divisions separated less than halfway to the common center.  PALMATISECT; PALMATISECTED Pal*mat"i*sect, Pal*mat`i*sect"ed, a. Etym: [L. palmatus palmate + secare to cut.] (Bot.)  Divided, as a palmate leaf, down to the midrib, so that the parenchyma is interrupted. 

PALMCRIST:  The palma Christi. (Jonah iv. 6, margin, and Douay version, note.) 

PALMED:  Having or bearing a palm or palms. Paimed deer (Zoöl.), a stag of full growth, bearing palms. See lst Palm, 4. 

PALMER:  One who palms or cheats, as at cards or dice. 

PALMER:  A wandering religious votary; especially, one who bore a branch of palm as a token that he had visited the Holy Land and its sacred places. Chaucer. Pilgrims and palmers plighted them together. P. Plowman. The pilgrim had some home or dwelling place, the palmer had none. The pilgrim traveled to some certain, designed place or places, but the palmer to all. T. Staveley. 

PALMETTE:  A floral ornament, common in Greek and other ancient architecture; -- often called the honeysuckle ornament. 

PALMETTO:  A name given to palms of several genera and species growing in the West Indies and the Southern United States. In the United States, the name is applied especially to the Chamærops, or Sabal, Palmetto, the cabbage tree of Florida and the Carolinas. See Cabbage tree, under Cabbage.  Royal palmetto, the West Indian Sabal umbraculifera, the trunk of which, when hollowed, is used for water pipes, etc. The leaves are used for thatching, and for making hats, ropes, etc.  -- Saw palmetto, Sabal serrulata, a native of Georgia, South Carolina, and Florida. The nearly impassable jungle which it forms is called palmetto scrub.  PALMETTO FLAG Pal*met"to flag.  Any of several flags adopted by South California after its secession. That adopted in November, 1860, had a green cabbage palmetto in the center of a white field; the final one, January, 1861, had a white palmetto in the center of a blue field and a white crescent in the upper left-hand corner.  PALMETTO STATE Palmetto State.  South California; -- a nickname alluding to the State Arms, which contain a representation of a palmetto tree. 

PALMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi); -- formerly used to designate an acid now called ricinoleic acid. [Obsoles.] 

PALMIDACTYLES:  A group of wading birds having the toes webbed, as the avocet. 

PALMIFEROUS:  Bearing palms. 

PALMIGRADE:  Putting the whole foot upon the ground in walking, as some mammals. 

PALMIPED:  Web-footed, as a water fowl.  -- n.  A swimming bird; a bird having webbed feet. 

PALMIPEDES:  Same as Natatores. 

PALMISTER:  One who practices palmistry Bp. Hall. 

PALMITATE:  A salt of palmitic acid. 

PALMITE:  A South African plant (Prionium Palmita) of the Rush family, having long serrated leaves. The stems have been used for making brushes. 

PALMITIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, palmitin or palm oil; as, palmitic acid, a white crystalline body belonging to the fatty acid series. It is readily soluble in hot alcohol, and melts to a liquid oil at 62º C. 

PALMITIN:  A solid crystallizable fat, found abundantly in animals and in vegetables. It occurs mixed with stearin and olein in the fat of animal tissues, with olein and butyrin in butter, with olein in olive oil, etc. Chemically, it is a glyceride of palmitic acid, three molecules of palmitic acid being united to one molecule of glyceryl, and hence it is technically called tripalmitin, or glyceryl tripalmitate. 

PALMITOLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an artificial acid of the oleic acid series, isomeric with linoleic acid. 

PALMITONE:  The ketone of palmitic acid.  PALM SUNDAY Palm" Sun`day. (Eccl.)  The Sunday next before Easter; -- so called in commemoration of our Savior's triumphal entry into Jerusalem, when the multitude strewed palm branches in the way. 

PALMYRA:  A species of palm (Borassus flabelliformis) having a straight, black, upright trunk, with palmate leaves. It is found native along the entire northern shores of the Indian Ocean, from the mouth of the Tigris to New Guinea. More than eight hundred uses to which it is put are enumerated by native writers. Its wood is largely used for building purposes; its fruit and roots serve for food, its sap for making toddy, and its leaves for thatching huts. 

PALO:  A pole or timber of any kind; -- in the names of trees. [Sp. Amer.]  PALO BLANCO Pa"lo blan"co. [Sp. blanco white.]  (a) A western American hackberry (Celtis reticulata), having light- colored bark.  (b) A Mexican mimosaceous tree (Lysiloma candida), the bark of which is used in tanning. 

PALOLA:  An annelid (Palola viridis) which, at certain seasons of the year, swarms at the surface of the sea about some of the Pcific Islands, where it is collected for food.  PALOLO; PALOLO WORM Pa*lo"lo, n., or Palolo worm . [From native name.]  A polystome worm (Palolo viridis) that burrows in the coral reefs of certain of the Pacific Islands. A little before the last quarter of the moon in October and November, they swarm in vast numbers at the surface of the sea for breeding, and are gathered and highly esteemed as food by the natives. An allied species inhabits the tropical Atlantic and swarms in June or July.  PALOMETA; PALLOMETA Pa*lo*me"ta, Pal`lo*me"ta, n. (Zoöl.)  A pompano. 

PALP:  Same as Palpus. 

PALP:  To have a distinct touch or feeling of; to feel. [Obs.] To bring a palpèd darkness o'er the earth. Heywood. 

PALPABILITY:  The quality of being palpable, or perceptible by the touch. Arbuthnot. 

PALPATION:  Examination of a patient by touch. Quain. 

PALPATOR:  One of a family of clavicorn beetles, including those which have very long maxillary palpi. 

PALPEBRA:  The eyelid. 

PALPEBRAL:  Of or pertaining to the eyelids. 

PALPEBRATE:  Having eyelids. 

PALPED:  Having a palpus. 

PALPI:  pl. of Palpus. (Zoöl.) See Palpus. 

PALPICORN:  One of a group of aquatic beetles (Palpicornia) having short club-shaped antennæ, and long maxillary palpi. 

PALPIFER:  Same as Palpiger. 

PALPIFORM:  Having the form of a palpus. 

PALPIGER:  That portion of the labium which bears the palpi in insects. 

PALPIGEROUS:  Bearing a palpus. Kirby. 

PALPITANT:  Palpitating; throbbing; trembling. Carlyle. 

PALPITATE:  To beat rapidly and more strongly than usual; to throb; to bound with emotion or exertion; to pulsate violently; to flutter; -- said specifically of the heart when its action is abnormal, as from excitement. 

PALPITATION:  A rapid pulsation; a throbbing; esp., an abnormal, rapid beating of the heart as when excited by violent exertion, strong emotion, or by disease. 

PALPLESS:  Without a palpus. 

PALPOCIL:  A minute soft filamentary process springing from the surface of certain hydroids and sponges. 

PALPUS:  A feeler; especially, one of the jointed sense organs attached to the mouth organs of insects, arachnids, crustaceans, and annelids; as, the mandibular palpi, maxillary palpi, and labial palpi. The palpi of male spiders serve as sexual organs. Called also palp. See Illust. of Arthrogastra and Orthoptera. 

PALSGRAVE:  A count or earl who presided in the domestic court, and had the superintendence, of a royal household in Germany. 

PALSGRAVINE:  The consort or widow of a palsgrave. 

PALSICAL:  Affected with palsy; palsied; paralytic. [R.] Johnson. 

PALSIED:  Affected with palsy; paralyzed. 

PALSTAVE:  A peculiar bronze adz, used in prehistoric Europe about the middle of the bronze age. Dawkins. 

PALSTER:  A pilgrim's staff. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

PALSY:  Paralysis, complete or partial. See Paralysis. "One sick of the palsy." Mark ii. 3. Bell's palsy, paralysis of the facial nerve, producing distortion of one side of the face; -- so called from Sir Charles Bell, an English surgeon who described it.  -- Scrivener's palsy. See Writer's cramp, under Writer.  -- Shaking palsy, paralysis agitans, a disease usually occurring in old people, characterized by muscular tremors and a peculiar shaking and tottering gait. 

PALSY:  To affect with palsy, or as with palsy; to deprive of action or energy; to paralyze. 

PALSYWORT:  The cowslip (Primula veris); -- so called from its supposed remedial powers. Dr. Prior. 

PALTER:  To trifle with; to waste; to squander in paltry ways or on worthless things. [Obs.] "Palter out your time in the penal statutes." Beau. & Fl. 

PALTERER:  One who palters. Johnson. 

PALTERLY:  Paltry; shabby; shabbily; paltrily. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] "In palterly clothes." Pepys. 

PALTOCK:  A kind of doublet; a jacket. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

PALTRILY:  In a paltry manner. 

PALTRINESS:  The state or quality of being paltry. 

PALTRY:  Mean; vile; worthless; despicable; contemptible; pitiful; trifling; as, a paltry excuse; paltry gold. Cowper. The paltry prize is hardly worth the cost. Byron.  Syn.  -- See Contemptible. 

PALUDAL:  Of or pertaining to marshes or fens; marshy. [R.] Paludal fever, malarial fever; -- so called because generated in marshy districts. 

PALUDAMENT:  See Paludamentum. 

PALUDAMENTUM:  Antiq.) A military cloak worn by a general and his principal officers. 

PALUDICOLAE:  A division of birds, including the cranes, rails, etc. 

PALUDICOLE:  Marsh-inhabiting; belonging to the Paludicolæ 

PALUDINA:  Any one of numerous species of freshwater pectinibranchiate mollusks, belonging to Paludina, Melantho, and allied genera. They have an operculated shell which is usually green, often with brown bands. See Illust. of Pond snail, under Pond. 

PALUDINAL:  Inhabiting ponds or swamps. 

PALUDINE:  Of or pertaining to a marsh. Buckland. 

PALUDISM:  The morbid phenomena produced by dwelling among marshes; malarial disease or disposition. 

PALUDOSE:  Growing or living in marshy places; marshy. 

PALULE:  See Palulus or Palus. 

PALULUS:  Same as Palus. 

PALUS:  One of several upright slender calcareous processes which surround the central part of the calicle of certain corals. 

PALUSTRAL:  Of or pertaining to a bog or marsh; boggy. [R.] 

PALUSTRINE:  Of, pertaining to, or living in, a marsh or swamp; marshy. 

PALY:  Pale; wanting color; dim. [Poetic] Shak. Whittier. 

PALY:  Divided into four or more equal parts by perpendicular lines, and of two different tinctures disposed alternately. 

PAM:  The knave of clubs. [Obs.] Pope. 

PAMENT:  A pavement. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PAMPANO:  Same as Pompano. 

PAMPAS:  Vast plains in the central and southern part of the Argentine Republic in South America. The term is sometimes used in a wider sense for the plains extending from Bolivia to Southern Patagonia. Pampas cat (Zoöl.), a South American wild cat (Felis pajeros). It has oblique transverse bands of yellow or brown. It is about three and a half feet long. Called also straw cat.  -- Pampas deer (Zoöl.), a small, reddish-brown, South American deer (Cervus, or Blastocerus, campestris).  -- Pampas grass (Bot.), a very tall ornamental grass (Gynerium argenteum) with a silvery-white silky panicle. It is a native of the pampas of South America. 

PAMPERED:  Fed luxuriously; indulged to the full; hence, luxuriant. "Pampered boughs." Milton. "Pampered insolence." Pope.  -- Pam"pered*ness, n. Bp. Hall. 

PAMPERER:  One who, or that which, pampers. Cowper. 

PAMPERIZE:  To pamper. [R.] Sydney Smith. 

PAMPERO:  A violent wind from the west or southwest, which sweeps over the pampas of South America and the adjacent seas, often doing great damage. Sir W. Parish. 

PAMPEROS:  A tribe of Indians inhabiting the pampas of South America. 

PAMPHLET:  To write a pamphlet or pamphlets. [R.] Howell. 

PAMPHLETEER:  A writer of pamphlets; a scribbler. Dryden. Macaulay. 

PAMPHLETEER:  To write or publish pamphlets. By pamphleteering we shall not win. C. Kingsley. 

PAMPINIFORM:  In the form of tendrils; -- applied especially to the spermatic and ovarian veins. 

PAMPRE:  An ornament, composed of vine leaves and bunches of grapes, used for decorating spiral columns. 

PAMPRODACTYLOUS:  Having all the toes turned forward, as the colies.  PAN-; PANTA-; PANTO- Pan-, Pan"ta-, Pan"to-. Etym: [Gr.  Combining forms signifying all, every; as, panorama, pantheism, pantagraph, pantograph. Pan- becomes pam- before b or p, as pamprodactylous. 

PAN:  The distance comprised between the angle of the epaule and the flanked angle.  3. Etym: [Perh. a different word.]  A leaf of gold or silver. 

PAN:  To join or fit together; to unite. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

PAN:  The betel leaf; also, the masticatory made of the betel leaf, etc. See . 

PAN:  The god of shepherds, guardian of bees, and patron of fishing and hunting. He is usually represented as having the head and trunk of a man, with the legs, horns, and tail of a goat, and as playing on the shepherd's pipe, which he is said to have invented. 

PAN:  A closed vessel for boiling or evaporating. See Vacuum pan, under Vacuum.  3. The part of a flintlock which holds the priming.  4. The skull, considered as a vessel containing the brain; the upper part of the head; the brainpan; the cranium. Chaucer.  5. (C  A recess, or bed, for the leaf of a hinge.  6. The hard stratum of earth that lies below the soil. See Hard pan, under Hard.  7. A natural basin, containing salt or fresh water, or mud. Flash in the pan. See under Flash.  -- To savor of the pan, to suggest the process of cooking or burning; in a theological sense, to be heretical. Ridley. Southey. 

PAN:  To separate, as gold, from dirt or sand, by washing in a kind of pan. [U. S.] We . . . witnessed the process of cleaning up and panning out, which is the last process of separating the pure gold from the fine dirt and black sand. Gen. W. T. Sherman. 

PAN:  To yield gold in, or as in, the process of panning; -- usually with out; as, the gravel panned out richly.  2. To turn out (profitably or unprofitably); to result; to develop; as, the investigation, or the speculation, panned out poorly. [Slang, U. S.] 

PANABASE:  Same as Tetrahedrite. 

PANACEA:  The herb allheal. 

PANACEAN:  Having the properties of a panacea. [R.] "Panacean dews." Whitehead. 

PANACHE:  A plume or bunch of feathers, esp. such a bunch worn on the helmet; any military plume, or ornamental group of feathers. A panache of variegated plumes. Prescott.  PANADA; PANADE Pa*na"da, Pa*nade", n. Etym: [Sp. panada, fr. L. panis bread: cf. F. panade. See Pantry.]  Bread boiled in water to the consistence of pulp, and sweetened or flavored. [Written also panado.] 

PANADE:  A dagger. [Obs.] Chaucer.  PANAMA HAT Pan`a*ma" hat`.  A fine plaited hat, made in Central America of the young leaves of a plant (Carludovica palmata). 

PANAMANIAN:  Of or pert. to Panama. -- n.  A native or citizen of Panama.  PAN-AMERICAN Pan`-A*mer"i*can, a. Etym: [See Pan-.]  Of or pertaining to both North and South America.  PAN-AMERICAN CONGRESS Pan-American Congress. Any of several meetings of delegates from various American states; esp.:  (a) One held in 1889-90 in the United States, at which all the independent states except Santo Domingo were represented and of which the practical result was the establishment of the Bureau of American Republics for the promotion of trade relations.  (b) One held in Mexico in 1901-1902.  (c) One held at Rio de Janeiro in 1906.  PAN-AMERICANISM Pan-A*mer"i*can*ism, n.  The principle or advocacy of a political alliance or union of all the states of America.  PAN-ANGLICAN Pan`-An"gli*can, a. Etym: [Pan- + Anglican.] (Eccl.)  Belonging to, or representing, the whole Church of England; used less strictly, to include the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United States; as, the Pan-Anglican Conference at Lambeth, in 1888. 

PANARY:  Of or pertaining to bread or to breadmaking. 

PANARY:  A storehouse for bread. Halliwell. 

PANATHENAEA:  The most ancient and important festival of Athens, celebrated in honor of Athena, the tutelary goddess of the city. 

PANCAKE:  A thin cake of batter fried in a pan or on a griddle; a griddlecake; a flapjack. "A pancake for Shrove Tuesday." Shak. 

PANCARTE:  A royal charter confirming to a subject all his possessions. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

PANCE:  The pansy. [Also paunce.] 

PANCH:  See Paunch. 

PANCHWAY:  A Bengalese four-oared boat for passengers. [Written also panshway and paunchwas.] Malcom. 

PANCRATIAN:  Pancratic; athletic. 

PANCRATIAST:  One who engaged in the contests of the pancratium. 

PANCRATIASTIC:  Of or pertaining to the pancratium. G. West. 

PANCRATIC:  Having all or many degrees of power; having a great range of power; -- said of an eyepiece made adjustable so as to give a varying magnifying power.  PANCRATIC; PANCRATICAL Pan*crat"ic, Pan*crat"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Pancratium.]  Of or pertaining to the pancratium; athletic. Sir T. Browne 

PANCRATIST:  An athlete; a gymnast. 

PANCRATIUM:  An athletic contest involving both boxing and wrestling.  2. (Bot.)  A genus of Old World amaryllideous bulbous plants, having a funnel-shaped perianth with six narrow spreading lobes. The American species are now placed in the related genus Hymenocallis. 

PANCREAS:  The sweetbread, a gland connected with the intestine of nearly all vertebrates. It is usually elongated and light-colored, and its secretion, called the pancreatic juice, is discharged, often together with the bile, into the upper part of the intestines, and is a powerful aid in digestion. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus. 

PANCREATIC:  Of or pertaining to the pancreas; as, the pancreatic secretion, digestion, ferments. Pancreatic juice (Physiol.), a colorless alkaline fluid secreted intermittently by the pancreatic gland. It is one of the most important of the digestive fluids, containing at least three distinct ferments, trypsin, steapsin and an amylolytic ferment, by which it acts upon all three classes of food stuffs. See Pancreas. 

PANCREATIN:  One of the digestive ferments of the pancreatic juice; also, a preparation containing such a ferment, made from the pancreas of animals, and used in medicine as an aid to digestion.  Note: By some the term pancreatin is restricted to the amylolytic ferment of the pancreatic juice, by others it is applied to trypsin, and by still others to steapsin. 

PANCY:  See Pansy. [Obs.] Dryden. 

PANDA:  A small Asiatic mammal (Ailurus fulgens) having fine soft fur. It is related to the bears, and inhabits the mountains of Northern India. 

PANDANUS:  A genus of endogenous plants. See Screw pine. 

PANDAR:  Same as Pander. "Seized by the pandar of Appius." Macaulay. 

PANDARISM:  Same as Panderism. Swift. 

PANDARIZE:  To pander. [Obs.] 

PANDAROUS:  Panderous. [Obs.] 

PANDEAN:  Of or relating to the god Pan. Pandean pipes, a primitive wind instrument, consisting of a series of short hollow reeds or pipes, graduated in length by the musical scale, and fastened together side by side; a syrinx; a mouth organ; -- said to have been invented by Pan. Called also Pan's pipes and Panpipes. 

PANDECT:  The digest, or abridgment, in fifty books, of the decisions, writings, and opinions of the old Roman jurists, made in the sixth century by direction of the emperor Justinian, and forming the leading compilation of the Roman civil law. Kent. 

PANDEMIC:  Affecting a whole people or a number of countries; everywhere epidemic.  -- n.  A pandemic disease. Harvey. 

PANDER:  To play the pander for. 

PANDER:  To act the part of a pander. 

PANDERAGE:  The act of pandering. 

PANDERISM:  The employment, arts, or practices of a pander. Bp. Hall. 

PANDERLY:  Having the quality of a pander. "O, you panderly rascals." Shak. 

PANDERMITE:  A hydrous borate of lime, near priceite. 

PANDEROUS:  , Of or relating to a pander; characterizing a pander. 

PANDICULATED:  Extended; spread out; stretched. 

PANDICULATION:  A stretching and stiffening of the trunk and extremities, as when fatigued and drowsy. 

PANDIT:  See Pundit. 

PANDOOR:  Same as Pandour. 

PANDORA:  A beautiful woman (all-gifted), whom Jupiter caused Vulcan to make out of clay in order to punish the human race, because Prometheus had stolen the fire from heaven. Jupiter gave Pandora a box containing all human ills, which, when the box was opened, escaped and spread over the earth. Hope alone remained in the box. Another version makes the box contain all the blessings of the gods, which were lost to men when Pandora opened it.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of marine bivalves, in which one valve is flat, the other convex. 

PANDORE:  An ancient musical instrument, of the lute kind; a bandore. [Written also pandoran.] 

PANDOUR:  One of a class of Hungarian mountaineers serving in the Austrian army; -- so called from Pandur, a principal town in the region from which they originally came. [Written also pandoor.] Her whiskered pandours and her fierce hussars. Campbell. 

PANDOWDY:  A deep pie or pudding made of baked apples, or of sliced bread and apples baked together, with no bottom crust.  PANDURATE; PANDURIFORM Pan"du*rate, Pan*du"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. pandura a pandore + -form: cf. F. panduriforme.]  Obovate, with a concavity in each side, like the body of a violin; fiddle-shaped; as, a panduriform leaf; panduriform color markings of an animal. 

PANE:  The narrow edge of a hammer head. See Peen. 

PANED:  Having flat sides or surfaces; as, a sixpaned nut. 

PANEGYRIC:  An oration or eulogy in praise of some person or achievement; a formal or elaborate encomium; a laudatory discourse; laudation. See Synonym of Eulogy.  PANEGYRIC; PANEGYRICAL Pan`e*gyr"ic, Pan`e*gyr"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. panegyricus, Gr. panhgyrico`s, from pa^, pa^n all +  Containing praise or eulogy; encomiastic; laudatory. "Panegyric strains." Pope.  -- Pan`e*gyr"ic*al*ly, adv. Some of his odes are panegyrical. Dryden. 

PANEGYRIS:  A festival; a public assembly. [Obs.] S. Harris. 

PANEGYRIST:  One who delivers a panegyric; a eulogist; one who extols or praises, either by writing or speaking. If these panegyrists are in earnest. Burke. 

PANEGYRIZE:  To praise highly; to extol in a public speech; to write or deliver a panegyric upon; to eulogize. 

PANEGYRIZE:  To indulge in panegyrics. Mitford. 

PANEGYRY:  A panegyric. [Obs.] Milton. 

PANEL:  A sunken compartment with raised margins, molded or otherwise, as in ceilings, wainscotings, etc.  2. (Law) (a) A piece of parchment or a schedule, containing the names of persons summoned as jurors by the sheriff; hence, more generally, the whole jury. Blackstone. (b) (Scots Law) A prisoner arraigned for trial at the bar of a criminal court. Burrill.  3. Formerly, a piece of cloth serving as a saddle; hence, a soft pad beneath a saddletree to prevent chafing.  4. (Joinery)  A board having its edges inserted in the groove of a surrounding frame; as, the panel of a door.  5. (Masonry)  One of the faces of a hewn stone. Gwilt.  6. (Painting)  A slab or plank of wood upon which, instead of canvas, a picture is painted.  7. (Mining) (a) A heap of dressed ore. (b) One of the districts divided by pillars of extra size, into which a mine is laid off in one system of extracting coal.  8. (Dressmaking)  A plain strip or band, as of velvet or plush, placed at intervals lengthwise on the skirt of a dress, for ornament.  9. A portion of a framed structure between adjacent posts or struts, as in a bridge truss. Panel game, a method of stealing money in a panel house.  -- Panel house, a house of prostitution in which the rooms have secret entrances to facilitate theft by accomplices of the inmates.  -- Panel saw, handsaw with fine teeth, -- used for cutting out panels, etc.  -- Panel thief, one who robs in a panel house. 

PANEL:  To form in or with panels; as, to panel a wainscot. Paneled back (Arch.), the paneled work covering the window back. See Window back. 

PANELATION:  The act of impaneling a jury. [Obs.] [Written also panellation.] Wood. 

PANELESS:  Without panes. To patch his paneless window. Shenstone. 

PANELING:  A forming in panels; panelwork. [Written also panelling.] 

PANELWORK:  Wainscoting. 

PANEULOGISM:  Eulogy of everything; indiscriminate praise. [R.] Her book has a trace of the cant of paneulogism. National Rev. 

PANFUL:  Enough to fill a pan. 

PANG:  A paroxysm of extreme pain or anguish; a sudden and transitory agony; a throe; as, the pangs of death.  Syn.  -- Agony; anguish; distress. See Agony. 

PANG:  To torture; to cause to have great pain or suffering; to torment. [R.] Shak. 

PANGENESIS:  An hypothesis advanced by Darwin in explanation of heredity.  Note: The theory rests on the assumption, that the whole organization, in the sense of every separate atom or unit, reproduces itself, the cells throwing off minute granules called gemmules, which circulate freely throughout the system and multiply by subdivision. These gemmules collect in the reproductive organs and products, or in buds, so that the egg or bud contains gemmules from all parts of the parent or parents, which in development give rise to cells in the offspring similar to those from which they were given off in the parent. The hypothesis also assumes that these gemmules need not in all cases develop into cells, but may lie dormant, and be transmitted from generation to generation without producing a noticeable effect until a case of atavism occurs. 

PANGENETIC:  Of or pertaining to pangenesis. 

PANGFUL:  Full of pangs. Richardson. 

PANGLESS:  Without a pang; painless. Byron. 

PANGOLIN:  Any one of several species of Manis, Pholidotus, and related genera, found in Africa and Asia. They are covered with imbricated scales, and feed upon ants. Called also scaly ant-eater. 

PANGOTHIC:  Of, pertaining to, or including, all the Gothic races. "Ancestral Pangothic stock." Earle. 

PANHANDLE:  The handle of a pan; hence, fig., any arm or projection suggestive of the handle of a pan; as, the panhandle of West Virginia, Texas, or Idaho.  PANHANDLE STATE Panhandle State.  West Virginia; -- a nickname. 

PANHELLENIC:  Of or pertaining to all Greece, or to Panhellenism; including all Greece, or all the Greeks. 

PANHELLENISM:  A scheme to unite all the Greeks in one political body. 

PANHELLENIST:  An advocate of Panhellenism. 

PANHELLENIUM:  An assembly or association of Greeks from all the states of Greece. 

PANIC:  A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass; also, the edible grain of some species of panic grass. Panic grass (Bot.), any grass of the genus Panicum. 

PANIC:  Extreme or sudden and causeless; unreasonable; -- said of fear or fright; as, panic fear, terror, alarm. "A panic fright." Dryden. 

PANICAL:  See Panic, a. [Obs.] Camden. 

PANICLE:  A pyramidal form of inflorescence, in which the cluster is loosely branched below and gradually simpler toward the end. 

PANICLED:  Furnished with panicles; arranged in, or like, panicles; paniculate.  PANIC-STRICKEN; PANIC-STRUCK Pan"ic-strick`en, Pan"ic-struck`, a.  Struck with a panic, or sudden fear. Burke.  PANICULATE; PANICULATED Pa*nic"u*late, Pa*nic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Panicle.] (Bot)  Same as Panicled. 

PANICUM:  A genus of grasses, including several hundred species, some of which are valuable; panic grass. 

PANIDIOMORPHIC:  Having a completely idiomorphic structure; -- said of certain rocks. 

PANIER:  See Pannier, 3. [Obs.] 

PANIFICATION:  The act or process of making bread. Ure. 

PANIM:  See Painim. [Obs.] Milton. 

PANISLAMISM:  A desire or plan for the union of all Mohammedan nations for the conquest of the world. 

PANIVOROUS:  Eating bread; subsisting on bread. 

PANNADE:  The curvet of a horse. 

PANNARY:  See Panary. Loudon. 

PANNE:  A fabric resembling velvet, but having the nap flat and less close. 

PANNEL:  The stomach of a hawk. Ainsworth.  3. (Mil.)  A carriage for conveying a mortar and its bed, on a march. Farrow. 

PANNIER:  A shield of basket work formerly used by archers as a shelter from the enemy's missiles.  3. A table waiter at the Inns of Court, London.  4. A framework of steel or whalebone, worn by women to expand their dresses; a kind of bustle. 

PANNIERED:  Bearing panniers. Wordsworth. 

PANNIKEL:  The brainpan, or skull; hence, the crest. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PANNIKIN:  A small pan or cup. Marryat. Thackeray. 

PANNOSE:  Similar in texture or appearance to felt or woolen cloth. 

PANNUS:  A very vascular superficial opacity of the cornea, usually caused by granulation of the eyelids. Foster. 

PANOISTIC:  Producing ova only; -- said of the ovaries of certain insects which do not produce vitelligenous cells. 

PANOMPHEAN:  Uttering ominous or prophetic voices; divining. [R.] We want no half gods, panomphean Joves. Mrs. Browning. 

PANOPLIED:  Dressed in panoply. 

PANOPLY:  Defensive armor in general; a full suit of defensive armor. Milton. We had need to take the Christian panoply, to put on the whole armor of God. Ray. 

PANORAMA:  Of, pertaining to, or like, a panorama. Panoramic camera. See under Camera. 

PANORPIAN:  Like, or pertaining to, the genus Panorpa.  -- n.  Same as Panorpid. 

PANORPID:  Any neuropterous insect of the genus Panorpa, and allied genera. The larvæ feed on plant lice. 

PANPHARMACON:  A medicine for all diseases; a panacea. [R.] 

PANPRESBYTERIAN:  Belonging to, or representative of, those who hold Presbyterian views in all parts of the world; as, a Panpresbyterian council. 

PANPSYCHISM:  The theory that all nature is psychical or has a psychical aspect; the theory that every particle of matter has a psychical character or aspect. -- Pan*psy"chic (#), a. -- Pan*psy"chist (#), n. -- Pan`psy*chis"tic (#), a.  Fechner affords a conspicuous instance of the idealistic tendency to mysterize nature in his panpsychicism, or that form of noumenal idealism which holds that the universe is a vast communion of spirits, souls of men, of animals, of plants, of earth and other planets, of the sun, all embraced as different members in the soul of the world. Encyc. Brit.  PANSCLAVIC; PANSCLAVISM; PANSCLAVIST; PANSCLAVONIAN Pan`sclav"ic, Pan`sclav"ism, Pan`sclav"ist, Pan`scla*vo"ni*an.  See Panslavic, Panslavism, etc. 

PANSHON:  An earthen vessel wider at the top than at the bottom, -- used for holding milk and for various other purposes. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

PANSIED:  Covered or adorned with pansies. "The pansied grounds." Darwin. 

PANSLAVIC:  Pertaining to all the Slavic races. 

PANSLAVISM:  A scheme or desire to unite all the Slavic races into one confederacy. 

PANSLAVIST:  One who favors Panslavism. 

PANSLAVONIAN:  See Panslavic. 

PANSOPHICAL:  All-wise; claiming universal knowledge; as, pansophical pretenders. [R.] John Worthington. 

PANSOPHY:  Universal wisdom; esp., a system of universal knowledge proposed by Comenius (1592 -- 1671), a Moravian educator. [R.] Hartlib.  PANSPERMATIST; PANSPERMIST Pan*sper"ma*tist, Pan"sper`mist, n. (Biol.)  A believer in panspermy; one who rejects the theory of spontaneous generation; a biogenist. 

PANSPERMIC:  Of or pertaining to panspermy; as, the panspermic hypothesis. 

PANSTEREORAMA:  A model of a town or country, in relief, executed in wood, cork, pasteboard, or the like. Brande & C. 

PANSY:  A plant of the genus Viola (V. tricolor) and its blossom, originally purple and yellow. Cultivated varieties have very large flowers of a great diversity of colors. Called also heart's-ease, love-in-idleness, and many other quaint names. 

PANT:  See Pan-. 

PANTABLE:  , n. See Pantofle. [Obs.] 

PANTACOSM:  See Cosmolabe. 

PANTAGRAPH:  See Pantograph. 

PANTALET:  One of the legs of the loose drawers worn by children and women; particularly, the lower part of such a garment, coming below the knee, often made in a separate piece; -- chiefly in the plural. 

PANTALOON:  A bifurcated garment for a man, covering the body from the waist downwards, and consisting of breeches and stockings in one.  3. pl.  In recent times, same as Trousers. 

PANTAMORPH:  That which assumes, or exists in, all forms. 

PANTAMORPHIC:  Taking all forms. 

PANTASCOPE:  A pantascopic camera. 

PANTASCOPIC:  Viewing all; taking a view of the whole. See under Camera. 

PANTASTOMATA:  One of the divisions of Flagellata, including the monads and allied forms. 

PANTECHNICON:  A depository or place where all sorts of manufactured articles are collected for sale. 

PANTELEGRAPH:  See under Telegraph. 

PANTER:  One who pants. Congreve. 

PANTER:  A keeper of the pantry; a pantler. [Obs.] Tyndale. 

PANTER:  A net; a noose. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PANTEUTONIC:  Of or pertaining to all the Teutonic races. 

PANTHEISM:  The doctrine that the universe, taken or conceived of as a whole, is God; the doctrine that there is no God but the combined force and laws which are manifested in the existing universe; cosmotheism. 

PANTHEIST:  One who holds to pantheism.  PANTHEISTIC; PANTHEISTICAL Pan`the*is"tic, Pan`the*is"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to pantheism; founded in, or leading to, pantheism.  -- Pan`the*is"tic*al*ly, adv. 

PANTHEOLOGIST:  One versed in pantheology. 

PANTHEOLOGY:  A system of theology embracing all religions; a complete system of theology. 

PANTHER:  A large dark-colored variety of the leopard, by some zoölogists considered a distinct species. It is marked with large ringlike spots, the centers of which are darker than the color of the body.  2. (Zoöl.)  In America, the name is applied to the puma, or cougar, and sometimes to the jaguar. Panther cat (Zoöl.), the ocelot.  -- Panther cowry (Zoöl.), a spotted East Indian cowry (Cypræa pantherina); -- so called from its color. 

PANTHERESS:  A female panther. 

PANTHERINE:  Like a panther, esp. in color; as, the pantherine snake (Ptyas mucosus) of Brazil. 

PANTILE:  A roofing tile, of peculiar form, having a transverse section resembling an elongated S laid on its side ( 

PANTINGLY:  With palpitation or rapid breathing. Shak. 

PANTISOCRACY:  A Utopian community, in which all should rule equally, such as was devised by Coleridge, Lovell, and Southey, in their younger days. 

PANTISOCRAT:  A pantisocratist. 

PANTISOCRATIC:  Of or pertaining to a pantisocracy. 

PANTISOCRATIST:  One who favors or supports the theory of a pantisocracy. Macaulay. 

PANTLER:  The servant or officer, in a great family, who has charge of the bread and the pantry. [Obs.] Shak.  PANTO- Pan"to-.  See Pan-. 

PANTOCHRONOMETER:  An instrument combining a compass, sundial, and universal time dial. Brande & C. 

PANTOFLE:  A slipper for the foot. [Written also pantable and pantoble.] 

PANTOGRAPH:  An instrument for copying plans, maps, and other drawings, on the same, or on a reduced or an enlarged, scale. [Written also pantagraph, and incorrectly pentagraph.] Skew pantograph, a kind of pantograph for drawing a copy which is inclined with respect to the original figure; -- also called plagiograph.  PANTOGRAPHIC; PANTOGRAPHICAL Pan`to*graph"ic, Pan`to*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. pantographique.]  Of or pertaining to a pantograph; relating to pantography. 

PANTOGRAPHY:  A general description; entire view of an object. 

PANTOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to pantology. 

PANTOLOGIST:  One versed in pantology; a writer of pantology. 

PANTOLOGY:  A systematic view of all branches of human knowledge; a work of universal information. 

PANTOMETER:  An instrument for measuring angles for determining elevations, distances, etc. 

PANTOMETRY:  Universal measurement. [R.] -- Pan`to*met"ric, a. [R.] 

PANTOMIME:  Representing only in mute actions; pantomimic; as, a pantomime dance.  PANTOMIMIC; PANTOMIMICAL Pan`to*mim"ic, Pan`to*mim"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. pantomimique.]  Of or pertaining to the pantomime; representing by dumb show. "Pantomimic gesture." Bp. Warburton.  -- Pan`to*mim"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PANTOMIMIST:  An actor in pantomime; also, a composer of pantomimes. 

PANTON:  A horseshoe to correct a narrow, hoofbound heel. 

PANTOPHAGIST:  A person or an animal that has the habit of eating all kinds of food. 

PANTOPHAGOUS:  Eating all kinds of food. 

PANTOPHAGY:  The habit or power of eating all kinds of food. 

PANTOPODA:  Same as Pycnogonida. 

PANTOSCOPIC:  Literally, seeing everything; -- a term applied to eyeglasses or spectacles divided into two segments, the upper being designed for distant vision, the lower for vision of near objects. 

PANTRY:  An apartment or closet in which bread and other provisions are kept. 

PANURGIC:  Skilled in all kinds of work. "The panurgic Diderot." J. Morley. 

PANURGY:  Skill in all kinds of work or business; craft. [R.] Bailey. 

PANYARD:  See Pannier. [Obs.] Pepys. 

PANYM:  See Panim. [Obs.] 

PANZOISM:  A term used to denote all of the elements or factors which constitute vitality or vital energy. H. Spencer. 

PAOLO:  An old Italian silver coin, worth about ten cents. 

PAP:  A nipple; a mammilla; a teat. Dryden. The paps which thou hast sucked. Luke xi. 27.  2. A rounded, nipplelike hill or peak; anything resembling a nipple in shape; a mamelon. Macaulay. 

PAP:  To feed with pap. Beau. & Fl. 

PAPABOTE:  The upland plover. [Local, U. S.] 

PAPAGAY:  See Popinjay, 1 (b). 

PAPAIN:  A proteolytic ferment, like trypsin, present in the juice of the green fruit of the papaw (Carica Papaya) of tropical America. 

PAPALIST:  A papist. [Obs.] Baxter. 

PAPALITY:  The papacy. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. Milton. 

PAPALIZE:  To make papal. [R.] 

PAPALIZE:  To conform to popery. Cowper. 

PAPALLY:  In a papal manner; popishly 

PAPALTY:  The papacy. [Obs.] Milton. 

PAPAPHOBIA:  Intense fear or dread of the pope, or of the Roman Catholic Church. [R.] 

PAPARCHY:  Government by a pope; papal rule. 

PAPAVER:  A genus of plants, including the poppy. 

PAPAVERACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Papaveraceæ) of which the poppy, the celandine, and the bloodroot are well-known examples. 

PAPAVERINE:  An alkaloid found in opium. It has a weaker therapeutic action than morphine. 

PAPAVEROUS:  Of or pertaining to the poppy; of the nature of the poppy. Sir T. Browne. 

PAPAW:  A tree (Carica Papaya) of tropical America, belonging to the order Passifloreæ. It has a soft, spongy stem, eighteen or twenty feet high, crowned with a tuft of large, long-stalked, palmately lobed leaves. The milky juice of the plant is said to have the property of making meat tender. Also, its dull orange-colored, melon- shaped fruit, which is eaten both raw and cooked or pickled.  2. (Bot.)  A tree of the genus Asimina (A. triloba), growing in the western and southern parts of the United States, and producing a sweet edible fruit; also, the fruit itself. Gray. 

PAPBOAT:  A large spiral East Indian marine shell (Turbinella rapha); -- so called because used by native priests to hold the oil for anointing. 

PAPE:  A spiritual father; specifically, the pope. [Obs.] 

PAPEJAY:  A popinjay. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PAPER:  Of or pertaining to paper; made of paper; resembling paper; existing only on paper; unsubstantial; as, a paper box; a paper army. 

PAPERWEIGHT:  See under Paper, n. 

PAPERY:  Like paper; having the thinness or consistence of paper. Gray. 

PAPESCENT:  Containing or producing pap; like pap. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

PAPESS:  A female pope; i. e., the fictitious pope Joan. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

PAPETERIE:  A case or box containing paper and materials for writing. 

PAPHIAN:  Of or pertaining to Paphos, an ancient city of Cyprus, having a celebrated temple of Venus; hence, pertaining to Venus, or her rites. 

PAPHIAN:  , n. A native or inhabitant of Paphos.  PAPIER-MACHE Pa`pier"-ma`ché", n. Etym: [F. papier mâché, lit., chewed or mashed paper.]  A hard and strong substance made of a pulp from paper, mixed with sise or glue, etc. It is formed into various articles, usually by means of molds. 

PAPILIO:  A genus of butterflies.  Note: Formerly it included numerous species which are now placed in other genera. By many writers it is now restricted to the swallow- tailed butterflies, like Papilio polyxenes, or asterias, and related species. 

PAPILIONES:  The division of Lepidoptera which includes the butterflies. 

PAPILIONIDES:  The typical butterflies. 

PAPILLA:  Any minute nipplelike projection; as, the papillæ of the tongue. 

PAPILLAR:  Same as Papillose. 

PAPILLARY:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a papilla or papillæ; bearing, or covered with, papillæ; papillose. 

PAPILLATE:  To cover with papillæ; to take the form of a papilla, or of papillæ. 

PAPILLATE:  Same as Papillose. 

PAPILLIFORM:  Shaped like a papilla; mammilliform. 

PAPILLOMA:  A tumor formed by hypertrophy of the papillæ of the skin or mucous membrane, as a corn or a wart. Quain. 

PAPILLOMATOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, papillomata. 

PAPILLOSE:  Covered with, or bearing, papillæ; resembling papillæ; papillate; papillar; papillary. 

PAPILLOTE:  a small piece of paper on which women roll up their hair to make it curl; a curl paper. 

PAPILLOUS:  Papillary; papillose. 

PAPILLULATE:  Having a minute papilla in the center of a larger elevation or depression. 

PAPION:  A West African baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx), allied to the chacma. Its color is generally chestnut, varying in tint. 

PAPISM:  Popery; -- an offensive term. Milton. 

PAPIST:  A Roman catholic; one who adheres to the Church of Rome and the authority of the pope; -- an offensive designation applied to Roman Catholics by their opponents.  PAPISTIC; PAPISTICAL Pa*pis"tic, Pa*pis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. papistique.]  Of or pertaining to the Church of Rome and its doctrines and ceremonies; pertaining to popery; popish; -- used disparagingly. "The old papistic worship." T. Warton.  -- Pa*pis"tic*al*ly, adv. 

PAPISTRY:  The doctrine and ceremonies of the Church of Rome; popery. [R.] Whitgift. 

PAPIZED:  Conformed to popery. [Obs.] "Papized writers." Fuller. 

PAPOOSE:  A babe or young child of Indian parentage in North America. 

PAPPIFORM:  Resembling the pappus of composite plants. 

PAPPOOSE:  Same as Papoose. Pappoose root. (Bot.) See Cohosh. 

PAPPOSE:  Furnished with a pappus; downy. 

PAPPOUS:  Pappose. 

PAPPUS:  The hairy or feathery appendage of the achenes of thistles, dandelions, and most other plants of the order Compositæ; also, the scales, awns, or bristles which represent the calyx in other plants of the same order. 

PAPPY:  Like pap; soft; succulent; tender. Ray.  PAPRIKA; PAPRICA Pa"pri*ka, n. Also Pa"pri*ca. [Hung. paprika Turkish pepper; prob. through G.]  The dried ripened fruit of Capsicum annuum or various other species of pepper; also, the mildly pungent condiment prepared from it. 

PAPUAN:  Of or pertaining to Papua. 

PAPUARS:  The native black race of Papua or New Guinea, and the adjacent islands. 

PAPULA:  A pimple; a small, usually conical, elevation of the cuticle, produced by congestion, accumulated secretion, or hypertrophy of tissue; a papule. Quain.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the numerous small hollow processes of the integument between the plates of starfishes. 

PAPULAR:  Consisting of papules; characterized by the presence of papules; as, a papular eruption. 

PAPULE:  Same as Papula. 

PAPULOSE:  Having papulæ; papillose; as, a papulose leaf. 

PAPULOUS:  Covered with, or characterized by, papulæ; papulose. 

PAPYRACEOUS:  Made of papyrus; of the consistency of paper; papery. 

PAPYREAN:  Of or pertaining to papyrus, or to paper; papyraceous. 

PAPYRINE:  Imitation parchment, made by soaking unsized paper in dilute sulphuric acid. 

PAPYROGRAPH:  An apparatus for multiplying writings, drawings, etc., in which a paper stencil, formed by writing or drawing with corrosive ink, is used. The word is also used of other means of multiplying copies of writings, drawings, etc. See Copygraph, Hectograph, Manifold. 

PAPYROGRAPHY:  The process of multiplying copies of writings, etc., by means of the papyrograph.  -- Pap`y*ro*graph"ic, a. 

PAPYRUS:  A tall rushlike plant (Cyperus Papyrus) of the Sedge family, formerly growing in Egypt, and now found in Abyssinia, Syria, Sicily, etc. The stem is triangular and about an inch thick.  2. The material upon which the ancient Egyptians wrote. It was formed by cutting the stem of the plant into thin longitudinal slices, which were gummed together and pressed.  3. A manuscript written on papyrus; esp., pl., written scrolls made of papyrus; as, the papyri of Egypt or Herculaneum. 

PAQUE:  See Pasch and Easter. 

PAR:  See Parr. 

PAR:  By; with; -- used frequently in Early English in phrases taken from the French, being sometimes written as a part of the word which it governs; as, par amour, or paramour; par cas, or parcase; par fay, or parfay. 

PAR:  A prefix denoting: (a) Likeness, similarity, or connection, or that the substance resembles, but is distinct from, that to the name of which it is prefixed; as paraldehyde, paraconine, etc.; also, an isomeric modification. (b) Specifically: (Organ. Chem.) That two groups or radicals substituted in the benzene nucleus are opposite, or in the respective positions 1 and 4; 2 and 5; or 3 and 6, as paraxylene; paroxybenzoic acid. Cf. Ortho-, and Meta-. Also used adjectively. 

PARA:  A piece of Turkish money, usually copper, the fortieth part of a piaster, or about one ninth of a cent.  PARA-ANAESTHESIA; PARA-ANESTHESIA Par`a-an`æs*the"si*a, -an`es*the"si*a, n. [NL.; para- + anæsthesia.] (Med.)  Anæsthesia of both sides of the lower half of the body. 

PARABANIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid which is obtained by the oxidation of uric acid, as a white crystalline substance (C3N2H2O3); -- also called oxalyl urea. 

PARABLAST:  A portion of the mesoblast (of peripheral origin) of the developing embryo, the cells of which are especially concerned in forming the first blood and blood vessels. C. S. Minot. 

PARABLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to the parablast; as, the parablastic cells. 

PARABLE:  Procurable. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PARABLE:  A comparison; a similitude; specifically, a short fictitious narrative of something which might really occur in life or nature, by means of which a moral is drawn; as, the parables of Christ. Chaucer. Declare unto us the parable of the tares. Matt. xiii. 36.  Syn.  -- See Allegory, and Note under Apologue. 

PARABLE:  To represent by parable. [R.] Which by the ancient sages was thus parabled. Milton. 

PARABOLE:  Similitude; comparison.  PARABOLIC; PARABOLICAL Par`a*bol"ic, Par`a*bol"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. parabolique. See Parable.]  1. Of the nature of a parable; expressed by a parable or figure; allegorical; as, parabolical instruction.  2. Etym: [From Parabola.] (Geom.) (a) Having the form or nature of a parabola; pertaining to, or resembling, a parabola; as, a parabolic curve. (b) Generated by the revolution of a parabola, or by a line that moves on a parabola as a directing curve; as, a parabolic conoid. Parabolic conoid, a paraboloid; a conoid whose directing curve is a parabola. See Conoid.  -- Parabolic mirror (Opt.), a mirror having a paraboloidal surface which gives for parallel rays (as those from very distant objects) images free from aberration. It is used in reflecting telescopes.  -- Parabolic spindle, the solid generated by revolving the portion of a parabola cut off by a line drawn at right angles to the axis of the curve, about that line as an axis.  -- Parabolic spiral, a spiral curve conceived to be formed by the periphery of a semiparabola when its axis is wrapped about a circle; also, any other spiral curve having an analogy to the parabola. 

PARABOLIFORM:  Resembling a parabola in form. 

PARABOLISM:  The division of the terms of an equation by a known quantity that is involved in the first term. [Obs.] 

PARABOLIST:  A narrator of parables. 

PARABOLOID:  The solid generated by the rotation of a parabola about its axis; any surface of the second order whose sections by planes parallel to a given line are parabolas.  Note: The term paraboloid has sometimes been applied also to the parabolas of the higher orders. Hutton. 

PARABOLOIDAL:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a paraboloid. 

PARABRONCHIUM:  One of the branches of an ectobronchium or entobronchium. 

PARACELSIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or in conformity with, the practice of Paracelsus, a Swiss physician of the 15th century. Ferrand. 

PARACELSIAN:  A follower of Paracelsus or his practice or teachings. Hakewill. 

PARACELSIST:  A Paracelsian. 

PARACENTESIS:  The perforation of a cavity of the body with a trocar, aspirator, or other suitable instrument, for the evacuation of effused fluid, pus, or gas; tapping.  PARACENTRIC; PARACENTRICAL Par`a*cen"tric, Par`a*cen"tric*al, a. Etym: [Pref. para- + centric, - ical: cf. F. paracentrique.]  Deviating from circularity; changing the distance from a center. Paracentric curve (Math.), a curve having the property that, when its plane is placed vertically, a body descending along it, by the force of gravity, will approach to, or recede from, a fixed point or center, by equal distances in equal times; -- called also a paracentric.  -- Paracentric motton or velocity, the motion or velocity of a revolving body, as a planet, by which it approaches to, or recedes from, the center, without reference to its motion in space, or to its motion as reckoned in any other direction. 

PARACHORDAL:  Situated on either side of the notochord; -- applied especially to the cartilaginous rudiments of the skull on each side of the anterior part of the notochord.  -- n.  A parachordal cartilage. 

PARACHRONISM:  An error in chronology, by which the date of an event is set later than the time of its occurrence. [R.] 

PARACHROSE:  Changing color by exposure Mohs. 

PARACHUTE:  A web or fold of skin which extends between the legs of certain mammals, as the flying squirrels, colugo, and phalangister. 

PARACLETE:  An advocate; one called to aid or support; hence, the Consoler, Comforter, or Intercessor; -- a term applied to the Holy Spirit. From which intercession especially I conceive he hath the name of the Paraclete given him by Christ. Bp. Pearson. 

PARACLOSE:  See Parclose. 

PARACMASTIC:  Gradually decreasing; past the acme, or crisis, as a distemper. Dunglison. 

PARACONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained as a deliquescent white crystalline substance, and isomeric with itaconic, citraconic, and mesaconic acids. 

PARACONINE:  A base resembling and isomeric with conine, and obtained as a colorless liquid from butyric aldehyde and ammonia. 

PARACOROLLA:  A secondary or inner corolla; a corona, as of the Narcissus.  PARA CRESS Pará cress.  An annual asteraceous herb (Spilances oleracea) grown in tropical countries as a pungent salad, and also used medicinally. 

PARACROSTIC:  A poetical composition, in which the first verse contains, in order, the first letters of all the verses of the poem. Brande & C. 

PARACYANOGEN:  A polymeric modification of cyanogen, obtained as a brown or black amorphous residue by heating mercuric cyanide. 

PARACYMENE:  Same as Cymene. 

PARADACTYLUM:  The side of a toe or finger. 

PARADE:  An assembly and orderly arrangement or display of troops, in full equipments, for inspection or evolutions before some superior officer; a review of troops. Parades are general, regimental, or private (troop, battery, or company), according to the force assembled.  3. Pompous show; formal display or exhibition. Be rich, but of your wealth make no parade. Swift.  4. That which is displayed; a show; a spectacle; an imposing procession; the movement of any body marshaled in military order; as, a parade of firemen. In state returned the grand parade. Swift.  5. Posture of defense; guard. [A Gallicism.] When they are not in parade, and upon their guard. Locke.  6. A public walk; a promenade. Dress parade, Undress parade. See under Dress, and Undress.  -- Parade rest, a position of rest for soldiers, in which, however, they are required to be silent and motionless. Wilhelm.  Syn.  -- Ostentation; display; show.  -- Parade, Ostentation. Parade is a pompous exhibition of things for the purpose of display; ostentation now generally indicates a parade of virtues or other qualities for which one expects to be honored. "It was not in the mere parade of royalty that the Mexican potentates exhibited their power." Robertson. "We are dazzled with the splendor of titles, the ostentation of learning, and the noise of victories." Spectator. 

PARADIGM:  An example of a conjugation or declension, showing a word in all its different forms of inflection.  3. (Rhet.)  An illustration, as by a parable or fable.  PARADIGMATIC; PARADIGMATICAL Par`a*dig*mat"ic, Par`a*dig*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Exemplary.  -- Par`a*dig*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

PARADIGMATIC:  A writer of memoirs of religious persona, as examples of Christian excellence. 

PARADIGMATIZE:  To set forth as a model or example. [Obs.] Hammond.  PARADISAIC; PARADISAICAL Par`a*di*sa"ic, Par`a*di*sa"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to, or resembling, paradise; paradisiacal. "Paradisaical pleasures." Gray. 

PARADISAL:  Paradisiacal. 

PARADISE:  An open space within a monastery or adjoining a church, as the space within a cloister, the open court before a basilica, etc.  5. A churchyard or cemetery. [Obs.] Oxf. Gloss. Fool's paradise. See under Fool, and Limbo.  -- Grains of paradise. (Bot.) See Melequeta pepper, under Pepper.  -- Paradise bird. (Zoöl.) Same as Bird of paradise. Among the most beautiful species are the superb (Lophorina superba); the magnificent (Diphyllodes magnifica); and the six-shafted paradise bird (Parotia sefilata). The long-billed paradise birds (Epimachinæ) also include some highly ornamental species, as the twelve-wired paradise bird (Seleucides alba), which is black, yellow, and white, with six long breast feathers on each side, ending in long, slender filaments. See Bird of paradise in the Vocabulary.  -- Paradise fish (Zoöl.), a beautiful fresh-water Asiatic fish (Macropodus viridiauratus) having very large fins. It is often kept alive as an ornamental fish.  -- Paradise flycatcher (Zoöl.), any flycatcher of the genus Terpsiphone, having the middle tail feathers extremely elongated. The adult male of T. paradisi is white, with the head glossy dark green, and crested.  -- Paradise grackle (Zoöl.), a very beautiful bird of New Guinea, of the genus Astrapia, having dark velvety plumage with brilliant metallic tints.  -- Paradise nut (Bot.), the sapucaia nut. See Sapucaia nut. [Local, U. S.] -- Paradise whidah bird. (Zoöl.) See Whidah. 

PARADISE:  To affect or exalt with visions of felicity; to entrance; to bewitch. [R.] Marston. 

PARADISEAN:  Paradisiacal. 

PARADISED:  Placed in paradise; enjoying delights as of paradise.  PARADISIAC; PARADISIACAL Par`a*dis"i*ac, Par`a*di*si"a*cal, a. Etym: [L. paradisiacus.]  Of or pertaining to paradise; suitable to, or like, paradise. C. Kingsley. T. Burnet. "A paradisiacal scene." Pope. The valley . . . is of quite paradisiac beauty. G. Eliot.  PARADISIAL; PARADISIAN Par`a*dis"i*al, Par`a*dis"i*an, a.  Paradisiacal. [R.] 

PARADISIC:  Paradisiacal. [R.] Broome. 

PARADISICAL:  Paradisiacal. [R.] 

PARADOS:  An intercepting mound, erected in any part of a fortification to protect the defenders from a rear or ricochet fire; a traverse. Farrow. 

PARADOX:  A tenet or proposition contrary to received opinion; an assertion or sentiment seemingly contradictory, or opposed to common sense; that which in appearance or terms is absurd, but yet may be true in fact. A gloss there is to color that paradox, and make it appear in show not to be altogether unreasonable. Hooker. This was sometime a paradox, but now the time gives it proof. Shak. Hydrostatic paradox. See under Hydrostatic. 

PARADOXAL:  Paradoxical. [Obs.]  PARADOXER; PARADOXIST Par"a*dox`er, n., Par"a*dox`ist (, n.  One who proposes a paradox. 

PARADOXIDES:  A genus of large trilobites characteristic of the primordial formations. 

PARADOXOLOGY:  The use of paradoxes. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PARADOXURE:  Any species of Paradoxurus, a genus of Asiatic viverrine mammals allied to the civet, as the musang, and the luwack or palm cat (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus). See Musang. 

PARADOXY:  A white waxy substance, resembling spermaceti, tasteless and odorless, and obtained from coal tar, wood tar, petroleum, etc., by distillation. It is used as an illuminant and lubricant. It is very inert, not being acted upon by most of the strong chemical reagents. It was formerly regarded as a definite compound, but is now known to be a complex mixture of several higher hydrocarbons of the methane or marsh-gas series; hence, by extension, any substance, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous, of the same chemical series; thus coal gas and kerosene consist largely of paraffins.  Note: In the present chemical usage this word is spelt paraffin, but in commerce it is commonly spelt paraffine. Native paraffin. See Ozocerite.  -- Paraffin series. See Methane series, under Methane. 

PARAGE:  Equality of condition, blood, or dignity; also, equality in the partition of an inheritance. Spelman.  2. (Feudal Law)  Equality of condition between persons holding unequal portions of a fee. Burrill.  3. Kindred; family; birth. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. We claim to be of high parage. Chaucer. 

PARAGENESIS:  The science which treats of minerals with special reference to their origin. 

PARAGENIC:  Originating in the character of the germ, or at the first commencement of an individual; -- said of peculiarities of structure, character, etc. 

PARAGLOBULIN:  An albuminous body in blood serum, belonging to the group of globulins. See Fibrinoplastin. 

PARAGLOSSA:  One of a pair of small appendages of the lingua or labium of certain insects. See Illust. under Hymenoptera. 

PARAGNATH:  Same as Paragnathus. 

PARAGNATHOUS:  Having both mandibles of equal length, the tips meeting, as in certain birds. 

PARAGOGE:  The addition of a letter or syllable to the end of a word, as withouten for without.  2. (Med.)  Coaptation. [Obs.] Dunglison.  PARAGOGIC; PARAGOGICAL Par`a*gog"ic, Par`a*gog"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. paragogique.]  Of, pertaining to, or constituting, a paragoge; added to the end of, or serving to lengthen, a word. Paragogic letters, in the Semitic languages, letters which are added to the ordinary forms of words, to express additional emphasis, or some change in the sense. 

PARAGON:  A size of type between great primer and double pica. See the Note under Type. 

PARAGON:  To be equal; to hold comparison. [R.] Few or none could . . . paragon with her. Shelton. 

PARAGONITE:  A kind of mica related to muscovite, but containing soda instead of potash. It is characteristic of the paragonite schist of the Alps. 

PARAGRAM:  A pun. Puns, which he calls paragrams. Addison. 

PARAGRAMMATIST:  A punster. 

PARAGRANDINE:  An instrument to avert the occurrence of hailstorms. See Paragr. Knight. 

PARAGRAPHER:  A writer of paragraphs; a paragraphist.  PARAGRAPHIC; PARAGRAPHICAL Par`a*graph"ic, Par`a*graph"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to, or consisting of, a paragraph or paragraphs.  -- Par`a*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PARAGRAPHIST:  A paragrapher. 

PARAGRAPHISTICAL:  Of or relating to a paragraphist. [R.] Beau. & Fl.  PARA GRASS Pa*ra" grass`. (Bot.)  A valuable pasture grass (Panicum barbinode) introduced into the Southern United States from Brazil. 

PARAGRELE:  A lightning conductor erected, as in a vineyard, for drawing off the electricity in the atmosphere in order to prevent hailstorms. [France] Knight. 

PARAGUAYAN:  Of or pertaining to Paraguay.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Paraguay.  PARAGUAY TEA Pa`ra*guay" tea".  See Mate, the leaf of the Brazilian holly. 

PARAIL:  See Apparel. [Obs.] "In the parail of a pilgrim." Piers Plowman. 

PARAKEET:  Same as Parrakeet. 

PARAKITE:  A train or series of kites on one string and flying tandem, used for attaining great heights and for sending up instruments for meteorological observations or a man for military reconnoissance; also, a kite of such a train. 

PARALACTIC:  Designating an acid called paralactic acid. See Lactic acid, under Lactic. 

PARALBUMIN:  A proteidlike body found in the fluid from ovarian cysts and elsewhere. It is generally associated with a substance related to, if not identical with, glycogen. 

PARALDEHYDE:  A polymeric modification of aldehyde obtained as a white crystalline substance. 

PARALEIPSIS:  A pretended or apparent omission; a figure by which a speaker artfully pretends to pass by what he really mentions; as, for example, if an orator should say, "I do not speak of my adversary's scandalous venality and rapacity, his brutal conduct, his treachery and malice." [Written also paralepsis, paralepsy, paralipsis.] 

PARALEPSIS:  See Paraleipsis. 

PARALGESIA:  Disordered sensibility to pain, including absence of sensibility to pain, excessive sensibility to pain, and abnormal painful results of stimuli. -- Par`al*ge"sic (#), a. 

PARALIAN:  A dweller by the sea. [R.] 

PARALIPOMENON:  A title given in the Douay Bible to the Books of Chronicles.  Note: In the Septuagint these books are called Paraleipome`nwn prw 	on and dey`teron, which is understood, after Jerome's explanation, as meaning that they are supplementary to the Books of Kings W. Smith. 

PARALIPSIS:  See Paraleipsis.  PARALLACTIC; PARALLACTICAL Par`al*lac"tic, Par`al*lac"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. parallactique.]  Of or pertaining to a parallax. 

PARALLAX:  The apparent difference in position of a body (as the sun, or a star) as seen from some point on the earth's surface, and as seen from some other conventional point, as the earth's center or the sun. Annual parallax, the greatest value of the heliocentric parallax, or the greatest annual apparent change of place of a body as seen from the earth and sun; as, the annual parallax of a fixed star.  -- Binocular parallax, the apparent difference in position of an object as seen separately by one eye, and then by the other, the head remaining unmoved.  -- Diurnal, or Geocentric, parallax, the parallax of a body with reference to the earth's center. This is the kind of parallax that is generally understood when the term is used without qualification.  -- Heliocentric parallax, the parallax of a body with reference to the sun, or the angle subtended at the body by lines drawn from it to the earth and sun; as, the heliocentric parallax of a planet.  -- Horizontal parallax, the geocentric parallx of a heavenly body when in the horizon, or the angle subtended at the body by the earth's radius.  -- Optical parallax, the apparent displacement in position undergone by an object when viewed by either eye singly. Brande & C.  -- Parallax of the cross wires (of an optical instrument), their apparent displacement when the eye changes its position, caused by their not being exactly in the focus of the object glass.  -- Stellar parallax, the annual parallax of a fixed star. 

PARALLEL:  Extended in the same direction, and in all parts equally distant; as, parallel lines; parallel planes. Revolutions . . . parallel to the equinoctial. Hakluyt.  Note: Curved lines or curved planes are said to be parallel when they are in all parts equally distant.  2. Having the same direction or tendency; running side by side; being in accordance (with); tending to the same result; -- used with to and with. When honor runs parallel with the laws of God and our country, it can not be too much cherished. Addison.  3. Continuing a resemblance through many particulars; applicable in all essential parts; like; similar; as, a parallel case; a parallel passage. Addison. Parallel bar. (a) (Steam Eng.) A rod in a parallel motion which is parallel with the working beam. (b) One of a pair of bars raised about five feet above the floor or ground, and parallel to each other, -- used for gymnastic exercises.  -- Parallel circles of a sphere, those circles of the sphere whose planes are parallel to each other.  -- Parallel columns, or Parallels (Printing), two or more passages of reading matter printed side by side, for the purpose of emphasizing the similarity or discrepancy between them.  -- Parallel forces (Mech.), forces which act in directions parallel to each other.  -- Parallel motion. (a) (Mach.) A jointed system of links, rods, or bars, by which the motion of a reciprocating piece, as a piston rod, may be guided, either approximately or exactly in a straight line. Rankine. (b) (Mus.) The ascending or descending of two or more parts at fixed intervals, as thirds or sixths.  -- Parallel rod (Locomotive Eng.), a metal rod that connects the crank pins of two or more driving wheels; -- called also couping rod, in distinction from the connecting rod. See Illust. of Locomotive, in App.  -- Parallel ruler, an instrument for drawing parallel lines, so constructed as to have the successive positions of the ruling edge parallel to each other; also, one consisting of two movable parts, the opposite edges of which are always parallel.  -- Parallel sailing (Naut.), sailing on a parallel of latitude.  -- Parallel sphere (Astron. & Geog.), that position of the sphere in which the circles of daily motion are parallel to the horizon, as to an observer at either pole.  -- Parallel vise, a vise having jaws so guided as to remain parallel in all positions. 

PARALLEL:  One of the imaginary circles on the surface of the earth, parallel to the equator, marking the latitude; also, the corresponding line on a globe or map.  7. (Mil.)  One of a series of long trenches constructed before a besieged fortress, by the besieging force, as a cover for troops supporting the attacking batteries. They are roughly parallel to the line of outer defenses of the fortress.  8. (Print.)  A character consisting of two parallel vertical lines (thus, ) used in the text to direct attention to a similarly marked note in the margin or at the foot of a page. Limiting parallels. See under Limit, v. t.  -- Parallel of altitude (Astron.), one of the small circles of the sphere, parallel to the horizon; an almucantar.  -- Parallel of declination (Astron.), one of the small circles of the sphere, parallel to the equator.  -- Parallel of latitude. (a) (Geog.) See def. 6. above. (b) (Astron.) One of the small circles of the sphere, parallel to the ecliptic. 

PARALLEL:  To be parallel; to correspond; to be like. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PARALLELABLE:  Capable of being paralleled, or equaled. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

PARALLELISTIC:  Of the nature of a parallelism; involving parallelism. The antithetic or parallelistic form of Hebrew poetry is entirely lost. Milman. 

PARALLELIZE:  To render parallel. [R.] 

PARALLELLESS:  Matchless. [R.] 

PARALLELLY:  In a parallel manner; with parallelism. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

PARALLELOGRAM:  A right-lined quadrilateral figure, whose opposite sides are parallel, and consequently equal; -- sometimes restricted in popular usage to a rectangle, or quadrilateral figure which is longer than it is broad, and with right angles. Parallelogram of velocities, forces, accelerations, momenta, etc. (Mech.), a parallelogram the diagonal of which represents the resultant of two velocities, forces, accelerations, momenta, etc., both in quantity and direction, when the velocities, forces, accelerations, momenta, etc., are represented in quantity and direction by the two adjacent sides of the parallelogram. 

PARALLELOGRAMMATIC:  Of or pertaining to a parallelogram; parallelogrammic.  PARALLELOGRAMMIC; PARALLELOGRAMMICAL Par`al*lel`o*gram"mic, Par`al*lel`o*gram"mic*al, a.  Having the properties of a parallelogram. [R.] 

PARALLELOPIPED:  A solid, the faces of which are six parallelograms, the opposite pairs being parallel, and equal to each other; a prism whose base is a parallelogram. 

PARALLELOPIPEDON:  A parallelopiped. Hutton.  PARALLEL STANDARDS Parallel standards. (Numismatics)  Two or more metals coined without any attempt by the government to regulate their values.  PARALLEL SULCUS Parallel sulcus. (Anat.)  A sulcus parallel to, but some distance below, the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius.  PARALLEL TRANSFORMER Parallel transformer. (Elec.)  A transformer connected in parallel.  PARALLEL VISE Parallel vise.  A vise with jaws so guided as to remain parallel. 

PARALOGICAL:  Containing paralogism; illogical. "Paralogical doubt." Sir T. Browne. 

PARALOGISM:  A reasoning which is false in point of form, that is, which is contrary to logical rules or formulæ; a formal fallacy, or pseudo- syllogism, in which the conclusion does not follow from the premises. 

PARALOGIZE:  To reason falsely; to draw conclusions not warranted by the premises. [R.] 

PARALOGY:  False reasoning; paralogism. 

PARALYSE:  Same as Paralyze. 

PARALYSIS:  Abolition of function, whether complete or partial; esp., the loss of the power of voluntary motion, with or without that of sensation, in any part of the body; palsy. See Hemiplegia, and Paraplegia. Also used figuratively. "Utter paralysis of memory." G. Eliot. Mischievous practices arising out of the paralysis of the powers of ownership. Duke of Argyll (1887). 

PARALYTIC:  A person affected with paralysis. 

PARALYTICAL:  See Paralytic. 

PARALYZATION:  The act or process of paralyzing, or the state of being paralyzed. 

PARAM:  A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C2H4N4); -- called also dicyandiamide. 

PARAMAGNETIC:  Magnetic, as opposed to Ant: diamagnetic.  -- n.  A paramagnetic substance. Faraday.  -- Par`a*mag*net"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PARAMAGNETISM:  Magnetism, as opposed to diamagnetism. Faraday. 

PARAMALEIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from malic acid, and now called fumaric acid. [Obs.] 

PARAMALIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid metameric with malic acid. 

PARAMASTOID:  Situated beside, or near, the mastoid portion of the temporal bone; paroccipital; -- applied especially to a process of the skull in some animals. 

PARAMATTA:  A light fabric of cotton and worsted, resembling bombazine or merino. Beck (Draper's Dict.) 

PARAMENT:  Ornamental hangings, furniture, etc., as of a state apartment; rich and elegant robes worn by men of rank; -- chiefly in the plural. [Obs.] Lords in paraments on their coursers. Chaucer. Chamber of paraments, presence chamber of a monarch. 

PARAMENTO:  Ornament; decoration. Beau. & Fl. 

PARAMERE:  One of the symmetrical halves of any one of the radii, or spheromeres, of a radiate animal, as a starfish. 

PARAMETER:  The ratio of the three crystallographic axes which determines the position of any plane; also, the fundamental axial ratio for a given species. 

PARAMETRITIS:  Inflammation of the cellular tissue in the vicinity of the uterus. 

PARAMIOGRAPHER:  A collector or writer of proverbs. [R.] 

PARAMITOME:  The fluid portion of the protoplasm of a cell. 

PARAMO:  A high, bleak plateau or district, with stunted trees, and cold, damp atmosphere, as in the Andes, in South America. 

PARAMORPH:  A kind of pseudomorph, in which there has been a change of physical characters without alteration of chemical composition, as the change of aragonite to calcite. 

PARAMORPHISM:  The change of one mineral species to another, so as to involve a change in physical characters without alteration of chemical composition. 

PARAMORPHOUS:  Relating to paramorphism; exhibiting paramorphism. 

PARAMOUNT:  Having the highest rank or jurisdiction; superior to all others; chief; supreme; preëminent; as, a paramount duty. "A traitor paramount." Bacon. Lady paramount (Archery), the lady making the best score.  -- Lord paramount, the king.  Syn. Superior; principal; preëminent; chief. 

PARAMOUNT:  The highest or chief. Milton. 

PARAMOUNTLY:  In a paramount manner. 

PARAMOUR:  By or with love, esp. the love of the sexes; -- sometimes written as two words. [Obs.] For par amour, I loved her first ere thou. Chaucer. 

PARAMYLUM:  A substance resembling starch, found in the green frothy scum formed on the surface of stagnant water. 

PARANAPHTHALENE:  Anthracene; -- called also paranaphthaline. [Obs.] 

PARANOIA:  Mental derangement; insanity. 

PARANOIAC:  Of or pertaining to paranoia; affected with, or characteristic of, paranoia. 

PARANOIAC:  A person affected with paranoia. 

PARANTHRACENE:  An inert isomeric modification of anthracene. 

PARANUCLEUS:  Some as Nucleolus.  PARA NUT Pa*ra" nut`. (Bot.)  The Brazil nut. 

PARANYMPHAL:  Bridal; nuptial. [R.] At some paranymphal feast. Ford. 

PARAPECTIN:  A gelatinous modification of pectin. 

PARAPEGM:  An engraved tablet, usually of brass, set up in a public place.  Note: Parapegms were used for the publication of laws, proclamations, etc., and the recording of astronomical phenomena or calendar events. 

PARAPEPTONE:  An albuminous body formed in small quantity by the peptic digestion of proteids. It can be converted into peptone by pancreatic juice, but not by gastric juice. 

PARAPET:  A low wall, especially one serving to protect the edge of a platform, roof, bridge, or the like.  2. (Fort.)  A wall, rampart, or elevation of earth, for covering soldiers from an enemy's fire; a breastwork. See Illust. of Casemate. 

PARAPETALOUS:  Growing by the side of a petal, as a stamen. 

PARAPETED:  Having a parapet. 

PARAPH:  A flourish made with the pen at the end of a signature. In the Middle Ages, this formed a sort of rude safeguard against forgery. Brande & C. 

PARAPH:  To add a paraph to; to sign, esp. with the initials. 

PARAPHERNA:  The property of a woman which, on her marriage, was not made a part of her dower, but remained her own. 

PARAPHERNAL:  Of or pertaining to paraphernalia; as, paraphernal property. Kent. 

PARAPHERNALIA:  Something reserved to a wife, over and above her dower, being chiefly apparel and ornaments suited to her degree.  2. Appendages; ornaments; finery; equipments. 

PARAPHIMOSIS:  A condition in which the prepuce, after being retracted behind the glans penis, is constricted there, and can not be brought forward into place again. 

PARAPHOSPHORIC:  Pyrophosphoric. [Obs.] 

PARAPHRAGMA:  One of the outer divisions of an endosternite of Crustacea.  -- Par`a*phrag"mal, a. 

PARAPHRASE:  A restatement of a text, passage, or work, expressing the meaning of the original in another form, generally for the sake of its clearer and fuller exposition; a setting forth the signification of a text in other and ampler terms; a free translation or rendering; -- opposed to metaphrase. In paraphrase, or translation with latitude, the author's words are not so strictly followed as his sense. Dryden. Excellent paraphrases of the Psalms of David. I. Disraeli. His sermons a living paraphrase upon his practice. Sowth. The Targums are also called the Chaldaic or Aramaic Paraphrases. Shipley. 

PARAPHRASE:  To express, interpret, or translate with latitude; to give the meaning of a passage in other language. We are put to construe and paraphrase our own words. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

PARAPHRASE:  To make a paraphrase. 

PARAPHRASER:  One who paraphrases. 

PARAPHRASIAN:  A paraphraser. [R.] 

PARAPHRAST:  A paraphraser. T. Warton.  PARAPHRASTIC; PARAPHRASTICAL Par`a*phras"tic, Par`a*phras"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.paraphrastique.]  Paraphrasing; of the nature of paraphrase; explaining, or translating in words more clear and ample than those of the author; not literal; free.  -- Par`a*phras"tic*al*ly, adv. 

PARAPHYSIS:  A minute jointed filament growing among the archegonia and antheridia of mosses, or with the spore cases, etc., of other flowerless plants.  PARAPLEGIA; PARAPLEGY Par`a*ple"gi*a, Par"a*ple`gy, n. Etym: [NL. paraplegia, fr. Gr. paraplégie.] (Med.)  Palsy of the lower half of the body on both sides, caused usually by disease of the spinal cord.  -- Par`a*pleg"ic, a. 

PARAPLEURA:  A chitinous piece between the metasternum and the pleuron of certain insects. 

PARAPODIUM:  One of the lateral appendages of an annelid; -- called also foot tubercle.  Note: They may serve for locomotion, respiration, and sensation, and often contain spines or setæ. When well developed, a dorsal part, or notopodium, and a ventral part, or neuropodium, are distinguished. 

PARAPOPHYSIS:  The ventral transverse, or capitular, process of a vertebra. See Vertebra.  -- Par*ap`o*phys"ic*al, a. 

PARAPTERUM:  A special plate situated on the sides of the mesothorax and metathorax of certain insects.  PARAQUET; PARAQUITO Par`a*quet", Par`a*qui"to, n. Etym: [See Paroquet.] (Zoöl.)  See Parrakeet.  PARA RUBBER Pará rubber.  The caoutchouc obtained from the South American euphorbiaceous tree Hevea brasiliensis, hence called the Pará rubber tree, from the Brazilian river and seaport named Pará; also, the similar product of other species of Hevea. It is usually exported in flat round cakes, and is a chief variety of commercial India rubber. 

PARASANG:  A Persian measure of length, which, according to Herodotus and Xenophon, was thirty stadia, or somewhat more than three and a half miles. The measure varied in different times and places, and, as now used, is estimated at from three and a half to four English miles. 

PARASCENIUM:  One of two apartments adjoining the stage, probably used as robing rooms. 

PARASCHEMATIC:  Of or pertaining to a change from the right form, as in the formation of a word from another by a change of termination, gender, etc. Max Müller. 

PARASELENE:  A mock moon; an image of the moon which sometimes appears at the point of intersection of two lunar halos. Cf. Parhelion. 

PARASHAH:  A lesson from the Torah, or Law, from which at least one section is read in the Jewish synagogue on every Sabbath and festival. 

PARASHOTH:  pl. of Parashah. 

PARASITAL:  Of or pertaining to parasites; parasitic. 

PARASITE:  Of or pertaining to parasites; living on, or deriving nourishment from, some other living animal or plant. See Parasite, 2 & 3. Parasitic gull, Parasitic jager. (Zoöl.) See Jager.  -- Par`a*sit"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Par`a*sit"ic*al*ness, n. 

PARASITICIDE:  Anything used to destroy parasites. Quain. 

PARASITISM:  The state of being parasitic. 

PARASOL:  A kind of small umbrella used by women as a protection from the sun. 

PARASOL:  To shade as with a parasol. [R.] 

PARASOLETTE:  A small parasol. 

PARASPHENOID:  Near the sphenoid bone; -- applied especially to a bone situated immediately beneath the sphenoid in the base of the skull in many animals.  -- n.  The parasphenoid bone. 

PARASTICHY:  A secondary spiral in phyllotaxy, as one of the evident spirals in a pine cone. 

PARASYNAXIS:  An unlawful meeting. 

PARASYNTHETIC:  Formed from a compound word. "Parasynthetic derivatives." Dr. Murray. 

PARATACTIC:  Of pertaining to, or characterized by, parataxis. 

PARATAXIS:  The mere ranging of propositions one after another, without indicating their connection or interdependence; -- opposed to syntax. Brande & C. 

PARATHESIS:  The placing of two or more nouns in the same case; apposition.  2. (Rhet.)  A parenthetical notice, usually of matter to be afterward expanded. Smart.  3. (Print.)  The matter contained within brackets.  4. (Eccl.)  A commendatory prayer. Shipley. 

PARATHETIC:  Of or pertaining to parathesis. 

PARATONNERRE:  A conductor of lightning; a lightning rod. 

PARAUNTER:  Peradventure. See Paraventure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PARAUQUE:  A bird (Nyctidromus albicollis) ranging from Texas to South America. It is allied to the night hawk and goatsucker. 

PARAVAIL:  At the bottom; lowest. Cowell.  Note: In feudal law, the tenant paravail is the lowest tenant of the fee, or he who is immediate tenant to one who holds over of another. Wharton.  PARAVANT; PARAVANT Par"a*vant`, Par"a*vant`, adv. Etym: [OF. par avant. See Par, and lst Avaunt.]  1. In front; publicly. [Obs.] Spenser.  2. Beforehand; first. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PARAVENTURE:  Peradventure; perchance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PARAXANTHIN:  A crystalline substance closely related to xanthin, present in small quantity in urine. 

PARAXIAL:  On either side of the axis of the skeleton. 

PARAXYLENE:  A hydrocarbon of the aromatic series obtained as a colorless liquid by the distillation of camphor with zinc chloride. It is one of the three metamers of xylene. Cf. Metamer, and Xylene. 

PARBREAK:  To throw out; to vomit. [Obs.] Skelton. 

PARBREAK:  Vomit. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PARBUCKLE:  To hoist or lower by means of a parbuckle. Totten. 

PARCAE:  The Fates. See Fate, 4. 

PARCASE:  Perchance; by chance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PARCEL:  A part; a portion; a piece; as, a certain piece of land is part and parcel of another piece.  3. An indiscriminate or indefinite number, measure, or quantity; a collection; a group. This youthful parcel Of noble bachelors stand at my disposing. Shak.  4. A number or quantity of things put up together; a bundle; a package; a packet. 'Tis like a parcel sent you by the stage. Cowper. Bill of parcels. See under 6th Bill.  -- Parcel office, an office where parcels are received for keeping or forwarding and delivery.  -- Parcel post, that department of the post office concerned with the collection and transmission of parcels.  -- Part and parcel. See under Part. 

PARCEL:  Part or half; in part; partially. Shak. [Sometimes hyphened with the word following.] The worthy dame was parcel-blind. Sir W. Scott. One that . . . was parcel-bearded [partially bearded]. Tennyson. Parcel poet, a half poet; a poor poet. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

PARCELING:  Long, narrow slips of canvas daubed with tar and wound about a rope like a bandage, before it is served; used, also, in mousing on the stayes, etc.  PARCEL-MELE Par"cel-mele`, adv. Etym: [See Parcel, and Meal a part.]  By parcels or parts. [Obs.] Chaucer.  PARCEL POST Par"cel post.  That branch of the post office having to do with the collection, transmission, and delivery of parcels. The British Inland Parcel Post was established in 1883. The present rates, dating from 1897, are 3d. for parcels not exceeding one pound and 1d. for each additional pound up to the limit of 10 pounds. A general parcel post was established in the United States by Act of August 24, 1912, which took effect Jan. 1, 1913. Parcels must not exceed 11 pounds in weight nor 72 inches in length and girth combined. Provision is made from insuring parcels up to $50.00, and also for sending parcels C.O.D. The rates of postage vary with the distance. See Zone, below. 

PARCENARY:  The holding or occupation of an inheritable estate which descends from the ancestor to two or more persons; coheirship.  Note: It differs in many respects from joint tenancy, which is created by deed or devise. In the United States there is no essential distinction between parcenary and tenancy in common. Wharton. Kent. 

PARCENER:  A coheir, or one of two or more persons to whom an estate of inheritance descends jointly, and by whom it is held as one estate. 

PARCH:  To become scorched or superficially burnt; to be very dry. "Parch in Afric sun." Shak. 

PARCHEDNESS:  The state of being parched. 

PARCHEESI:  See Pachisi. 

PARCHESI:  See Pachisi. 

PARCHING:  Scorching; burning; drying. "Summer's parching heat." Shak.  -- Parch"ing*ly, adv. 

PARCHMENTIZE:  To convert to a parchmentlike substance, esp. by sulphuric acid. 

PARCITY:  Sparingless. [Obs.] 

PARCLOSE:  A screen separating a chapel from the body of the church. [Written also paraclose and perclose.] Hook. 

PARD:  A leopard; a panther. And more pinch-spotted make them Than pard or cat o'mountain. Shak. 

PARDALE:  A leopard. [Obs.] Spenser.  PARDE; PARDIE Par*de", Par*die", adv. or interj. Etym: [F. pardi, for par Dieu by God.]  Certainly; surely; truly; verily; -- originally an oath. [Written also pardee, pardieux, perdie, etc.] [Obs.] He was, parde, an old fellow of yours. Chaucer. 

PARDINE:  Spotted like a pard. Pardine lynx (Zoöl.), a species of lynx (Felis pardina) inhabiting Southern Europe. Its color is rufous, spotted with black. 

PARDO:  A money of account in Goa, India, equivalent to about 2s. 6d. sterling. or 60 cts. 

PARDON:  A release, by a sovereign, or officer having jurisdiction, from the penalties of an offense, being distinguished from amenesty, which is a general obliteration and canceling of a particular line of past offenses.  Syn.  -- Forgiveness; remission. See Forgiveness. 

PARDON:  -- Forgiveness, Pardon. Forgiveness is Anglo-Saxon, and pardon Norman French, both implying a giving back. The word pardon, being early used in our Bible, has, in religious matters, the same sense as forgiveness; but in the language of common life there is a difference between them, such as we often find between corresponding Anglo-Saxon and Norman words. Forgive points to inward feeling, and suppose alienated affection; when we ask forgiveness, we primarily seek the removal of anger. Pardon looks more to outward things or consequences, and is often applied to trifling matters, as when we beg pardon for interrupting a man, or for jostling him in a crowd. The civil magistrate also grants a pardon, and not forgiveness. The two words are, therefore, very clearly distinguished from each other in most cases which relate to the common concerns of life. 

PARDONABLE:  Admitting of pardon; not requiring the excution of penalty; venial; excusable; -- applied to the offense or to the offender; as, a pardonable fault, or culprit. 

PARDONABLENESS:  The quality or state of being pardonable; as, the pardonableness of sin. Bp. Hall. 

PARDONABLY:  In a manner admitting of pardon; excusably. Dryden. 

PARDONING:  Relating to pardon; having or exercising the right to pardon; willing to pardon; merciful; as, the pardoning power; a pardoning God. 

PAREGORIC:  Mitigating; assuaging or soothing pain; as, paregoric elixir. 

PAREGORIC:  A medicine that mitigates pain; an anodyne; specifically, camphorated tincture of opium; -- called also paregoric elexir. 

PARELCON:  The addition of a syllable or particle to the end of a pronoun, verb, or adverb. 

PARELECTRONOMIC:  Of or relating to parelectronomy; as, the parelectronomic part of a muscle. 

PARELECTRONOMY:  A condition of the muscles induced by exposure to severe cold, in which the electrical action of the muscle is reversed.  PARELLA; PARELLE Pa*rel"la, Pa`relle, n. Etym: [Cf. F. parelle.] (Bot.) (a) A name for two kinds of dock (Rumex Patientia and R. Hydrolapathum). (b) A kind of lichen (Lecanora parella) once used in dyeing and in the preparation of litmus. 

PAREMBOLE:  A kind of parenthesis. 

PAREMENT:  See Parament. [Obs.] 

PAREMPTOSIS:  Same as Parembole. 

PARENCHYMA:  The soft celluar substance of the tissues of plants and animals, like the pulp of leaves, to soft tissue of glands, and the like. 

PARENCHYMAL:  Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, parenchyma.  PARENCHYMATOUS; PARENCHYMOUS Par`en*chym"a*tous, Pa*ren"chy*mous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. parenchymateux.]  Of, pertaining to, or connected with, the parenchyma of a tissue or an organ; as, parenchymatous degeneration. 

PARENESIS:  Exhortation. [R.]  PARENETIC; PARENETIOAL Par`e*net"ic, Par`e*net"io*al, a. Etym: [Gr. parénétique.]  Hortatory; encouraging; persuasive. [R.] F. Potter. 

PARENTAGE:  Descent from parents or ancestors; parents or ancestors considered with respect to their rank or character; extraction; birth; as, a man of noble parentage. "Wilt thou deny thy parentage" Shak. Though men esteem thee low of parentage. Milton. 

PARENTALLY:  In a parental manner. 

PARENTATION:  Something done or said in honor of the dead; obsequies. [Obs.] Abp. Potter. 

PARENTELE:  Kinship; parentage. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PARENTHESIS:  One of the curved lines () which inclose a parenthetic word or phrase.  Note: Parenthesis, in technical grammar, is that part of a sentence which is inclosed within the recognized sign; but many phrases and sentences which are punctuated by commas are logically parenthetical. In def. 1, the phrase "by way of comment or explanation" is inserted for explanation, and the sentence would be grammatically complete without it. The present tendency is to avoid using the distinctive marks, except when confusion would arise from a less conspicuous separation. 

PARENTHESIZE:  To make a parenthesis of; to include within parenthetical marks. Lowell.  PARENTHETIC; PARENTHETICAL Par`en*thet"ic, Par`en*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.  1. Of the nature of a parenthesis; pertaining to, or expressed in, or as in, a parenthesis; as, a parenthetical clause; a parenthetic remark. A parenthetical observation of Moses himself. Hales.  2. Using or containing parentheses. 

PARENTHETICALLY:  In a parenthetical manner; by way of parenthesis; by parentheses. 

PARENTHOOD:  The state of a parent; the office or character of a parent. 

PARENTLESS:  Deprived of parents. 

PAREPIDIDYMIS:  A small body containing convoluted tubules, situated near the epididymis in man and some other animals, and supposed to be a remnant of the anterior part of the Wolffian body. 

PARER:  One who, or that which, pares; an instrument for paring. 

PARERGON:  See Parergy. 

PARERGY:  Something unimportant, incidental, or superfluous. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PARESIS:  Incomplete paralysis, affecting motion but not sensation. 

PARETHMOID:  Near or beside the ethmoid bone or cartilage; -- applied especially to a pair of bones in the nasal region of some fishes, and to the ethmoturbinals in some higher animals.  -- n.  A parethmoid bone. 

PARETIC:  Of or pertaining to paresis; affected with paresis. 

PARFAY:  By my faith; verily. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PARFIT:  Perfect. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PARFITLY:  Perfectly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PARFLECHE:  A kind of rawhide consisting of hide, esp. of the buffalo, which has been soaked in crude wood-ash lye to remove the hairs, and then dried. 

PARFOCAL:  With the lower focal points all in the same plane; -- said of sets of eyepieces so mounted that they may be interchanged without varying the focus of the instrument (as a microscope or telescope) with which they are used.  PARFORN; PARFOURN Par*forn", Par*fourn", v. t.  To perform. [Obs.] Chaucer. Piers Plowman. 

PARGASITE:  A dark green aluminous variety of amphibole, or hornblende. 

PARGEBOARD:  See Bargeboard. 

PARGETER:  A plasterer. Johnson. 

PARGETING:  Plasterwork; esp.: (a) A kind of decorative plasterwork in raised ornamental figures, formerly used for the internal and external decoration of houses. (b) In modern architecture, the plastering of the inside of flues, intended to give a smooth surface and help the draught. 

PARGETORY:  Something made of, or covered with, parget, or plaster. [Obs.] Milton. 

PARHELIC:  Of or pertaining to parhelia. 

PARHELION:  A mock sun appearing in the form of a bright light, sometimes near the sun, and tinged with colors like the rainbow, and sometimes opposite to the sun. The latter is usually called an anthelion. Often several mock suns appear at the same time. Cf. Paraselene. 

PARHELIUM:  See Parhelion.  PARI- Par"i-. Etym: [L. par, paris, equal.]  A combining form signifying equal; as, paridigitate, paripinnate. 

PARIAL:  See Pair royal, under Pair, n. 

PARIAN:  Of or pertaining to Paros, an island in the Ægean Sea noted for its excellent statuary marble; as, Parian marble. Parian chronicle, a most ancient chronicle of the city of Athens, engraved on marble in the Isle of Paros, now among the Arundelian marbles. 

PARIDIGITATA:  Same as Artiodactyla. 

PARIDIGITATE:  Having an evennumber of digits on the hands or the feet. Qwen. 

PARIES:  The triangular middle part of each segment of the shell of a barnacle. 

PARIETAL:  Attached to the main wall of the ovary, and not to the axis; -- said of a placenta. 

PARIETAL:  One of the parietal bones.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the special scales, or plates, covering the back of the head in certain reptiles and fishes. 

PARIETARY:  See Parietal, 2. 

PARIETARY:  Any one of several species of Parietaria. See 1st Pellitory. 

PARIETES:  The walls of a cavity or an organ; as, the abdominal parietes; the parietes of the cranium.  2. (Bot.)  The sides of an ovary or of a capsule. 

PARIETIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in the lichen Parmelia parietina, and called also chrysophanic acid. 

PARIETINE:  A piece of a fallen wall; a ruin. [Obs.] Burton.  PARIETO- Pa*ri"e*to- (. (Anat.)  A combining form used to indicate connection with, or relation to, the parietal bones or the parietal segment of the skull; as, the parieto-mastoid suture. 

PARIGENIN:  A curdy white substance, obtained by the decomposition of parillin. 

PARILLIN:  A glucoside resembling saponin, found in the root of sarsaparilla, smilax, etc., and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance; -- called also smilacin, sarsaparilla saponin, and sarsaparillin. 

PARIPINNATE:  Pinnate with an equal number of leaflets on each side; having no odd leaflet at the end. 

PARIS:  A plant common in Europe (Paris quadrifolia); herb Paris; truelove. It has been used as a narcotic.  Note: It much resembles the American genus Trillium, but has usually four leaves and a tetramerous flower. 

PARIS:  The chief city of France. Paris green. See under Green, n.  -- Paris white (Chem.), purified chalk used as a pigment; whiting; Spanish white. 

PARISH:  Of or pertaining to a parish; parochial; as, a parish church; parish records; a parish priest; maintained by the parish; as, parish poor. Dryden. Parish clerk. (a) The clerk or recording officer of a parish. (b) A layman who leads in the responses and otherwise assists in the service of the Church of England.  -- Parish court, in Louisiana, a court in each parish. 

PARISHEN:  A parishioner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PARISHIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a parish; parochial. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

PARISHIONER:  One who belongs to, or is connected with, a parish. 

PARISIAN:  A native or inhabitant of Paris, the capital of France. 

PARISIAN:  Of or pertaining to Paris. 

PARISIENNE:  A female native or resident of Paris. 

PARISOLOGY:  The use of equivocal or ambiguous words. [R.]  PARISYLLABIC; PARISYLLABICAL Par`i*syl*lab"ic, Par`i*syl*lab"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pari- + syllabic, - ical: cf. F. parisyllabique.]  Having the same number of syllables in all its inflections. 

PARITOR:  An apparitor. "Summoned by an host of paritors." Dryden. 

PARITORY:  Pellitory. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PARITY:  The quality or condition of being equal or equivalent; A like state or degree; equality; close correspondence; analogy; as, parity of reasoning. "No parity of principle." De Quincey. Equality of length and parity of numeration. Sir T. Browne. 

PARK:  A piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant. Mozley & W.  2. A tract of ground kept in its natural state, about or adjacent to a residence, as for the preservation of game, for walking, riding, or the like. Chaucer. While in the park I sing, the listening deer Attend my passion, and forget to fear. Waller.  3. A piece of ground, in or near a city or town, inclosed and kept for ornament and recreation; as, Hyde Park in London; Central Park in New York.  4. (Mil.)  A space occupied by the animals, wagons, pontoons, and materials of all kinds, as ammunition, ordnance stores, hospital stores, provisions, etc., when brought together; also, the objects themselves; as, a park of wagons; a park of artillery.  5. A partially inclosed basin in which oysters are grown. [Written also parc.] Park of artillery. See under Artillery.  -- Park phaeton, a small, low carriage, for use in parks. 

PARK:  To bring together in a park, or compact body; as, to park the artillery, the wagons, etc.  PARKA; PARKEE Par"ka, Par"kee, n. [Russ. parka, parki, dim. of para a pair, fr. G. paar, L. par. Cf. Pair.]  An outer garment made of the skins of birds or mammals, worn by Eskimos, etc. 

PARKER:  , The keeper of a park. Sir M. Hale. 

PARKERIA:  A genus of large arenaceous fossil Foraminifera found in the Cretaceous rocks. The species are globular, or nearly so, and are of all sizes up to that of a tennis ball. 

PARKESINE:  A compound, originally made from gun cotton and castor oil, but later from different materials, and used as a substitute for vulcanized India rubber and for ivory; -- called also xylotile. 

PARKLEAVES:  A European species of Saint John's-wort; the tutsan. See Tutsan. 

PARLANCE:  Conversation; discourse; talk; diction; phrase; as, in legal parlance; in common parlance. A hate of gossip parlance and of sway. Tennyson.  PARLANDO; PARLANTE Par*lan"do, Par*lan"te, a. & adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)  Speaking; in a speaking or declamatory manner; to be sung or played in the style of a recitative. 

PARLE:  To talk; to converse; to parley. [Obs.] Shak. Finding himself too weak, began to parle. Milton. 

PARLE:  Conversation; talk; parley. [Obs.] They ended parle, and both addressed for fight. Milton. 

PARLEY:  Mutual discourse or conversation; discussion; hence, an oral conference with an enemy, as with regard to a truce. We yield on parley, but are stormed in vain. Dryden. To beat a parley (Mil.), to beat a drum, or sound a trumpet, as a signal for holding a conference with the enemy. 

PARLEY:  To speak with another; to confer on some point of mutual concern; to discuss orally; hence, specifically, to confer orally with an enemy; to treat with him by words, as on an exchange of prisoners, an armistice, or terms of peace. They are at hand, To parley or to fight; therefore prepare. Shak. 

PARLIAMENTAL:  Parliamentary. [Obs.] 

PARLIAMENTARIAN:  Of or pertaining to Parliament. Wood. 

PARLIAMENTARIAN:  One who adhered to the Parliament, in opposition to King Charles I. Walpole.  2. One versed in the rules and usages of Parliament or similar deliberative assemblies; as, an accomplished parliamentarian. 

PARLIAMENTARILY:  In a parliamentary manner. 

PARLOR:  A room for business or social conversation, for the reception of guests, etc. Specifically: (a) The apartment in a monastery or nunnery where the inmates are permitted to meet and converse with each other, or with visitors and friends from without. Piers Plowman. (b) In large private houses, a sitting room for the family and for familiar guests, -- a room for less formal uses than the drawing- room. Esp., in modern times, the dining room of a house having few apartments, as a London house, where the dining parlor is usually on the ground floor. (c) Commonly, in the United States, a drawing-room, or the room where visitors are received and entertained.  Note: "In England people who have a drawing-room no longer call it a parlor, as they called it of old and till recently." Fitzed. Hall. Parior car. See Palace car, under Car.  PARLOR MATCH Par"lor match`.  A friction match that contains little or no sulphur. 

PARMESAN:  Of or pertaining to Parma in Italy. Parmesan cheese, a kind of cheese of a rich flavor, though from skimmed milk, made in Parma, Italy. 

PARNASSIA:  A genus of herbs growing in wet places, and having white flowers; grass of Parnassus. 

PARNASSIAN:  Of or pertaining to Parnassus. 

PARNASSIAN:  Any one of numerous species of butterflies belonging to the genus Parnassius. They inhabit the mountains, both in the Old World and in America. 

PARNASSIEN:  Same as Parnassian. 

PARNASSUS:  A mountain in Greece, sacred to Apollo and the Muses, and famous for a temple of Apollo and for the Castalian spring. Grass of Parnassus. (Bot.) See under Grass, and Parnassia.  -- To climb Parnassus, to write poetry. [Colloq.] 

PARNELLISM:  The policy or principles of the Parnellites. 

PARNELLITE:  One of the adherents of Charles Stewart Parnell (1846-91) in his advocacy of home rule for Ireland. 

PAROCCIPITAL:  Situated near or beside the occipital condyle or the occipital bone; paramastoid; -- applied especially to a process of the skull in some animals. 

PAROCHIAL:  Of or pertaining to a parish; restricted to a parish; as, parochial duties. "Parochial pastors." Bp. Atterbury. Hence, limited; narrow. "The parochial mind." W. Black. 

PAROCHIALISM:  The quality or state of being parochial in form or nature; a system of management peculiar to parishes. 

PAROCHIALITY:  The state of being parochial. [R.] Sir J. Marriot. 

PAROCHIALIZE:  To render parochial; to form into parishes. 

PAROCHIALLY:  In a parochial manner; by the parish, or by parishes. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

PAROCHIAN:  Parochial. [Obs.] "Parochian churches." Bacon. 

PAROCHIAN:  A parishioner. [Obs.] Ld. Burleigh.  PARODIC; PARODICAL Pa*rod"ic, Pa*rod"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. parodique.]  Having the character of parody. Very paraphrastic, and sometimes parodical. T. Warton. 

PARODIST:  One who writes a parody; one who parodies. Coleridge. 

PARODY:  To write a parody upon; to burlesque. I have translated, or rather parodied, a poem of Horace. Pope. 

PAROKET:  See Paroquet. 

PAROL:  Oral declaration; word of mouth; also, a writing not under seal. Blackstone. 

PAROL:  Given or done by word of mouth; oral; also, given by a writing not under seal; as, parol evidence. Parol arrest (Law), an arrest in pursuance of a verbal order from a magistrate.  -- Parol contract (Law), any contract not of record or under seal, whether oral or written; a simple contract. Chitty. Story. 

PAROLE:  A watchword given only to officers of guards; -- distinguished from countersign, which is given to all guards.  4. (Law)  Oral declaration. See lst Parol, 2. 

PAROLE:  See 2d Parol. 

PAROLE:  To set at liberty on parole; as, to parole prisoners. 

PAROMOLOGY:  A concession to an adversary in order to strengthen one's own argument. 

PARONOMASIA:  A play upon words; a figure by which the same word is used in different senses, or words similar in sound are set in opposition to each other, so as to give antithetical force to the sentence; punning. Dryden.  PARONOMASTIC; PARONOMASTICAL Par`o*no*mas"tic, Par`o*no*mas"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to paronomasia; consisting in a play upon words. 

PARONOMASY:  Paronomasia. [R.] B. Jonson. 

PARONYCHIA:  A whitlow, or felon. Quincy. 

PARONYM:  A paronymous word. [Written also paronyme.] 

PARONYMY:  The quality of being paronymous; also, the use of paronymous words.  PAROOPHORON; PAROOEPHORON Par`o*öph"o*ron, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. Para-) + (Anat.)  A small mass of tubules near the ovary in some animals, and corresponding with the parepididymis of the male. 

PAROQUET:  Same as Parrakeet. [Written also paroket, parroquet, and perroquet.] Paroquet auk or auklet (Zoöl.), a small auk (Cyclorrhynchus psittaculus) inhabiting the coast and islands of Alaska. The upper parts are dark slate, under parts white, bill orange red. Called also perroquet auk. 

PARORCHIS:  The part of the epididymis; or the corresponding part of the excretory duct of the testicle, which is derived from the Wolffian body. 

PAROSTEAL:  Of or pertaining to parostosis; as, parosteal ossification. 

PAROSTOSIS:  Ossification which takes place in purely fibrous tracts; the formation of bone outside of the periosteum. 

PAROSTOTIC:  Pertaining to parostosis. 

PAROTIC:  On the side of the auditory capsule; near the external ear. Parotic region (Zoöl.), the space around the ears. 

PAROTID:  The parotid gland. 

PAROTITIS:  Inflammation of the parotid glands. Epidemic, or Infectious, parotitis, mumps. 

PAROTOID:  Resembling the parotid gland; -- applied especially to cutaneous glandular elevations above the ear in many toads and frogs.  -- n.  A parotoid gland. 

PAROVARIUM:  A group of tubules, a remnant of the Wolffian body, often found near the ovary or oviduct; the epoöphoron. 

PAROXYSM:  The fit, attack, or exacerbation, of a disease that occurs at intervals, or has decided remissions or intermissions. Arbuthnot.  2. Any sudden and violent emotion; spasmodic passion or action; a convulsion; a fit. The returning paroxysms of diffidence and despair. South. 

PAROXYSMAL:  Of the nature of a paroxysm; characterized or accompanied by paroxysms; as, a paroxysmal pain; paroxysmal temper.  -- Par`ox*ys"mal*ly, adv. 

PAROXYTONE:  A word having an acute accent on the penultimate syllable. 

PARQUETAGE:  See Parquetry.  PARQUET CIRCLE Parquet circle.  That part of the lower floor of a theater with seats at the rear of the parquet and beneath the galleries; -- called also, esp. in U. S., orchestra circle or parterre. 

PARQUETED:  Formed in parquetry; inlaid with wood in small and differently colored figures. One room parqueted with yew, which I liked well. Evelyn. 

PARQUETRY:  A species of joinery or cabinet-work consisting of an inlay of geometric or other patterns, generally of different colors, -- used especially for floors. 

PARQUETTE:  See Parquet. 

PARR:  Any one of numerous species of small parrots having a graduated tail, which is frequently very long; -- called also paroquet and paraquet.  Note: Many of the Asiatic and Australian species belong to the genus Paleornis; others belong to Polytelis, Platycercus, Psephotus, Euphema, and allied genera. The American parrakeets mostly belong to the genus Conurus, as the Carolina parrakeet (C. Carolinensis).  PARRAL; PARREL Par"ral, Par"rel, n. Etym: [F. appareil. See Apparel, n.]  1. (Naut.)  The rope or collar by which a yard or spar is held to the mast in such a way that it may be hoisted or lowered at pleasure. Totten.  2. A chimney-piece. Halliwell. 

PARRAQUA:  A curassow of the genus Ortalida, allied to the guan. 

PARRHESIA:  Boldness or freedom of speech. 

PARRICIDAL:  Of or pertaining to parricide; guilty of parricide. 

PARRICIDE:  The act or crime of murdering one's own father or any ancestor. 

PARRICIDIOUS:  Parricidal. [Obs.] 

PARROCK:  A croft, or small field; a paddock. [Prov. Eng.] 

PARROT:  In a general sense, any bird of the order Psittaci.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any species of Psittacus, Chrysotis, Pionus, and other genera of the family Psittacidæ, as distinguished from the parrakeets, macaws, and lories. They have a short rounded or even tail, and often a naked space on the cheeks. The gray parrot, or jako (P. erithacus) of Africa (see Jako), and the species of Amazon, or green, parrots (Chrysotis) of America, are examples. Many species, as cage birds, readily learn to imitate sounds, and to repeat words and phrases. Carolina parrot (Zoöl.), the Carolina parrakeet. See Parrakeet.  -- Night parrot, or Owl parrot. (Zoöl.) See Kakapo.  -- Parrot coal, cannel coal; -- so called from the crackling and chattering sound it makes in burning. [Eng. & Scot.] -- Parrot green. (Chem.) See Scheele's green, under Green, n.  -- Parrot weed (Bot.), a suffrutescent plant (Bocconia frutescens) of the Poppy family, native of the warmer parts of America. It has very large, sinuate, pinnatifid leaves, and small, panicled, apetalous flowers.  -- Parrot wrasse, Parrot fish (Zoöl.), any fish of the genus Scarus. One species (S. Cretensis), found in the Mediterranean, is esteemed by epicures, and was highly prized by the ancient Greeks and Romans. 

PARROT:  To repeat by rote, as a parrot. 

PARROT:  To chatter like a parrot. 

PARROTER:  One who simply repeats what he has heard. [R.] J. S. Mill. 

PARROTRY:  Servile imitation or repetition. [R.] Coleridge. "The supine parrotry." Fitzed. Hall.  PARROT'S-BILL Par"rot's-bill`, n. Etym: [So called from the resemblance of its curved superior petal to a parrot's bill.] (Bot.)  The glory pea. See under Glory. 

PARRY:  To ward off, evade, or turn aside something, as a blow, argument, etc. Locke. 

PARRY:  A warding off of a thrust or blow, as in sword and bayonet exercises or in boxing; hence, figuratively, a defensive movement in debate or other intellectual encounter. 

PARSE:  To resolve into its elements, as a sentence, pointing out the several parts of speech, and their relation to each other by government or agreement; to analyze and describe grammatically. Let him construe the letter into English, and parse it over perfectly. Ascham. 

PARSEEISM:  The religion and customs of the Parsees. 

PARSER:  One who parses. 

PARSIMONIOUS:  Exhibiting parsimony; sparing in expenditure of money; frugal to excess; penurious; niggardly; stingy.  -- Par`si*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.  -- Par`si*mo"ni*ous*ness, n. A prodigal king is nearer a tyrant than a parsimonious. Bacon. Extraordinary funds for one campaign may spare us the expense of many years; whereas a long, parsimonious war will drain us of more men and money. Addison.  Syn.  -- Covetous; niggardly; miserly; penurious; close; saving; mean; stingy; frugal. See Avaricious. 

PARSIMONY:  Closeness or sparingness in the expenditure of money; -- generally in a bad sense; excessive frugality; niggardliness. Bacon. Awful parsimony presided generally at the table. Thackeray.  Syn.  -- Economy; frugality; illiberality; covetousness; closeness; stinginess. See Economy. 

PARSLEY:  An aromatic umbelliferous herb (Carum Petroselinum), having finely divided leaves which are used in cookery and as a garnish. As she went to the garden for parsley, to stuff a rabbit. Shak. Fool's parsley. See under Fool.  -- Hedge parsley, Milk parsley, Stone parsley, names given to various weeds of similar appearance to the parsley.  -- Parsley fern (Bot.), a small fern with leaves resembling parsley (Cryptogramme crispa).  -- Parsley piert (Bot.), a small herb (Alchemilla arvensis) formerly used as a remedy for calculus. 

PARSNIP:  The aromatic and edible spindle-shaped root of the cultivated form of the Pastinaca sativa, a biennial umbelliferous plant which is very poisonous in its wild state; also, the plant itself. Cow parsnip. See Cow parsnip.  -- Meadow parsnip, the European cow parsnip.  -- Poison parsnip, the wild stock of the parsnip.  -- Water parsnip, any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sium, the species of which are poisonous. 

PARSON:  A person who represents a parish in its ecclesiastical and corporate capacities; hence, the rector or incumbent of a parochial church, who has full possession of all the rights thereof, with the cure of souls.  2. Any clergyman having ecclesiastical preferment; one who is in orders, or is licensed to preach; a preacher. He hears the parson pray and preach. Longfellow. Parson bird (Zoöl.), a New Zealand bird (Prosthemadera Novæseelandiæ) remarkable for its powers of mimicry and its ability to articulate words. Its color is glossy black, with a curious tuft of long, curly, white feathers on each side of the throat. It is often kept as a cage bird. 

PARSONAGE:  A certain portion of lands, tithes, and offerings, for the maintenance of the parson of a parish.  2. The glebe and house, or the house only, owned by a parish or ecclesiastical society, and appropriated to the maintenance or use of the incumbent or settled pastor.  3. Money paid for the support of a parson. [Scot.] What have I been paying stipend and teind, parsonage and vicarage, for Sir W. Scott. 

PARSONED:  Furnished with a parson.  PARSONIC; PARSONICAL Par*son"ic, Par*son"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to a parson; clerical. Vainglory glowed in his parsonic heart. Colman. -- Par*son"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PARSONISH:  Appropriate to, or like, a parson; -- used in disparagement. [Colloq.] 

PART:  Such portion of any quantity, as when taken a certain number of times, will exactly make that quantity; as, 3 is a part of 12; -- the opposite of multiple. Also, a line or other element of a geometrical figure.  3. That which belongs to one, or which is assumed by one, or which falls to one, in a division or apportionment; share; portion; lot; interest; concern; duty; office. We have no part in David. 2 Sam. xx. 1. Accuse not Nature! she hath done her part; Do thou but thine. Milton. Let me bear My part of danger with an equal share. Dryden.  4. Hence, specifically: (a) One of the opposing parties or sides in a conflict or a controversy; a faction. For he that is not against us is on our part. Mark ix. 40. Make whole kingdoms take her brother's part. Waller.  (b) A particular character in a drama or a play; an assumed personification; also, the language, actions, and influence of a character or an actor in a play; or, figuratively, in real life. See To act a part, under Act. That part Was aptly fitted and naturally performed. Shak. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf. Shak. Honor and shame from no condition rise; Act well your part, there all the honor lies. Pope. (c) (Mus.)  One of the different melodies of a concerted composition, which heard in union compose its harmony; also, the music for each voice or instrument; as, the treble, tenor, or bass part; the violin part, etc. For my part, so far as concerns me; for my share.  -- For the most part. See under Most, a.  -- In good part, as well done; favorably; acceptably; in a friendly manner. Hooker. In ill part, unfavorably; with displeasure.  -- In part, in some degree; partly.  -- Part and parcel, an essential or constituent portion; -- a reduplicative phrase. Cf. might and main, kith and kin, etc. "She was . . . part and parcel of the race and place." Howitt.  -- Part of speech (Gram.), a sort or class of words of a particular character; thus, the noun is a part of speech denoting the name of a thing; the verb is a part of speech which asserts something of the subject of a sentence.  -- Part owner (Law), one of several owners or tenants in common. See Joint tenant, under Joint.  -- Part singing, singing in which two or more of the harmonic parts are taken.  -- Part song, a song in two or more (commonly four) distinct vocal parts. "A part song differs from a madrigal in its exclusion of contrapuntual devices; from a glee, in its being sung by many voices, instead of by one only, to each part." Stainer & Barrett.  Syn.  -- Portion; section; division; fraction; fragment; piece; share; constituent. See Portion, and Section. 

PART:  Partly; in a measure. [R.] Shak. 

PARTABLE:  See Partible. Camden. 

PARTAN:  An edible British crab. [Prov. Eng.] 

PARTED:  Cleft so that the divisions reach nearly, but not quite, to the midrib, or the base of the blade; -- said of a leaf, and used chiefly in composition; as, three-parted, five-parted, etc. Gray. 

PARTER:  One who, or which, parts or separates. Sir P. Sidney. 

PARTERRE:  An ornamental and diversified arrangement of beds or plots, in which flowers are cultivated, with intervening spaces of gravel or turf for walking on.  2. The pit of a theater; the parquet. [France] 

PARTHENIAD:  A poem in honor of a virgin. [Obs.] 

PARTHENIC:  Of or pertaining to the Spartan Partheniæ, or sons of unmarried women. 

PARTHENOGENESIS:  The production of new individuals from virgin females by means of ova which have the power of developing without the intervention of the male element; the production, without fertilization, of cells capable of germination. It is one of the phenomena of alternate generation. Cf. Heterogamy, and Metagenesis.  2. (Bot.)  The production of seed without fertilization, believed to occur through the nonsexual formation of an embryo extraneous to the embrionic vesicle. 

PARTHENOGENETIC:  Of, pertaining to, or produced by, parthenogenesis; as, parthenogenetic forms.  -- Par`the*no*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PARTHENOGENITIVE:  Parthenogenetic. 

PARTHENOGENY:  Same as Parthenogenesis. 

PARTHENON:  A celebrated marble temple of Athene, on the Acropolis at Athens. It was of the pure Doric order, and has had an important influence on art.  PARTHENOPE; PARTENOPE Par*then"o*pe, Par*ten"o*pe, n. Etym: [L., the name of a Siren, fr. Gr.  1. (Gr. Myth.)  One of the Sirens, who threw herself into the sea, in despair at not being able to beguile Ulysses by her songs.  2. One of the asteroids between Mars and Jupiter, descovered by M. de Gasparis in 1850. 

PARTHIAN:  Of or pertaining to ancient Parthia, in Asia.  -- n.  A native Parthia. Parthian arrow, an arrow discharged at an enemy when retreating from him, as was the custom of the ancient Parthians; hence, a parting shot. 

PARTIAL:  Pertaining to a subordinate portion; as, a compound umbel is made up of a several partial umbels; a leaflet is often supported by a partial petiole. Partial differentials, Partial differential coefficients, Partial differentiation, etc. (of a function of two or more variables), the differentials, differential coefficients, differentiation etc., of the function, upon the hypothesis that some of the variables are for the time constant.  -- Partial fractions (Alg.), fractions whose sum equals a given fraction.  -- Partial tones (Music), the simple tones which in combination form an ordinary tone; the overtones, or harmonics, which, blending with a fundamental tone, cause its special quality of sound, or timbre, or tone color. See, also, Tone. 

PARTIALISM:  Partiality; specifically (Theol.), the doctrine of the Partialists. 

PARTIALIST:  One who holds that the atonement was made only for a part of mankind, that is, for the elect. 

PARTIALIZE:  To make or be partial. [R.] 

PARTIBILITY:  The quality or state of being partible; divisibility; separability; as, the partibility of an inherttance. 

PARTIBLE:  Admitting of being parted; divisible; separable; susceptible of severance or partition; as, an estate of inheritance may be partible. "Make the molds partible." Bacon. 

PARTICIPABLE:  Capable of being participated or shared. [R.] Norris. 

PARTICIPANT:  Sharing; participating; having a share of part. Bacon. 

PARTICIPANT:  A participator; a partaker. Participants in their . . . mysterious rites. Bp. Warburton. 

PARTICIPANTLY:  In a participant manner. 

PARTICIPATE:  Acting in common; participating. [R.] Shak. 

PARTICIPATE:  Tj have a share in common with others; to take a part; to partake; -- followed by in, formely by of; as, to participate in a debate. Shak. So would he participateof their wants. Hayward. Mine may come when men With angels may participate. Milton. 

PARTICIPATIVE:  Capable of participating. 

PARTICIPATOR:  One who participates, or shares with another; a partaker. 

PARTICIPIAL:  Having, or partaking of, the nature and use of a participle; formed from a participle; as, a participial noun. Lowth. 

PARTICIPIAL:  A participial word. 

PARTICIPIALIZE:  To form into, or put in the form of, a participle. [R.] 

PARTICIPIALLY:  In the sense or manner of a participle. 

PARTICIPLE:  A part of speech partaking of the nature both verb and adjective; a form of a verb, or verbal adjective, modifying a noun, but taking the adjuncts of the verb from which it is derived. In the sentences: a letter is written; being asleep he did not hear; exhausted by toil he will sleep soundly, -- written, being, and exhaustedare participles. By a participle, [I understand] a verb in an adjectival aspect. Earle.  Note: Present participles, called also imperfect, or incomplete, participles, end in -ing. Past participles, called also perfect, or complete, participles, for the most part end in -ed, -d, -t, -en, or -n. A participle when used merely as an attribute of a noun, without reference to time, is called an adjective, or a participial adjective; as, a written constitution; a rolling stone; the exhausted army. The verbal noun in -ing has the form of the present participle. See Verbal noun, under Verbal, a.  2. Anything that partakes of the nature of different things. [Obs.] The participles or confines between plants and living creatures. Bacon. 

PARTICLE:  A subordinate word that is never inflected (a preposition, conjunction, interjection); or a word that can not be used except in compositions; as, ward in backward, ly in lovely. 

PARTICOLORED:  Same as Party-colored. 

PARTICULAR:  Forming a part of a genus; relatively limited in extension; affirmed or denied of a part of a subject; as, a particular proposition; -- opposed to universal: e. g. (particular affirmative) Some men are wise; (particular negative) Some men are not wise. Particular average. See under Average.  -- Particular Baptist, one of a branch of the Baptist denomination the members of which hold the doctrine of a particular or individual election and reprobation.  -- Particular lien (Law), a lien, or a right to retain a thing, for some charge or claim growing out of, or connected with, that particular thing.  -- Particular redemption, the doctrine that the purpose, act, and provisions of redemption are restricted to a limited number of the human race. See Calvinism.  Syn.  -- Minute; individual; respective; appropriate; peculiar; especial; exact; specific; precise; critical; circumstantial. See Minute. 

PARTICULAR:  One of the details or items of grounds of claim; -- usually in the pl.; also, a bill of particulars; a minute account; as, a particular of premises. The reader has a particular of the books wherein this law was written. Ayliffe. Bill of particulars. See under Bill.  -- In particular, specially; peculiarly. "This, in particular, happens to the lungs." Blackmore.  -- To go into particulars, to relate or describe in detail or minutely. 

PARTICULARISM:  The doctrine of particular election.  3. (German Politics)  Devotion to the interests of one's own kingdom or province rather than to those of the empire. 

PARTICULARIST:  One who holds to particularism.  -- Par*tic`u*lar*is"tic, a. 

PARTICULARIZATION:  The act of particularizing. Coleridge. 

PARTICULARIZE:  To give as a particular, or as the particulars; to mention particularly; to give the particulars of; to enumerate or specify in detail. He not only boasts of his parentage as an Israelite, but particularizes his descent from Benjamin. Atterbury. 

PARTICULARIZE:  To mention or attend to particulars; to give minute details; to be circumstantial; as, to particularize in a narrative. 

PARTICULARMENT:  A particular; a detail. [Obs.] 

PARTICULATE:  To particularize. [Obs.] 

PARTING:  The surface of the sand of one section of a mold where it meets that of another section.  5. (Chem.)  The separation and determination of alloys; esp., the separation, as by acids, of gold from silver in the assay button.  6. (Geol.)  A joint or fissure, as in a coal seam.  7. (Naut.)  The breaking, as of a cable, by violence.  8. (Min.)  Lamellar separation in a crystallized mineral, due to some other cause than cleavage, as to the presence of twinning lamellæ. 

PARTISAN:  Serving as a partisan in a detached command; as, a partisan officer or corps. Partisan ranger (Mil.), a member of a partisan corps. 

PARTISAN:  A kind of halberd or pike; also, a truncheon; a staff. And make him with our pikes and partisans a grave. Shak. 

PARTISANSHIP:  The state of being a partisan, or adherent to a party; feelings or conduct appropriate to a partisan. 

PARTITA:  A suite; a set of variations. 

PARTITE:  Divided nearly to the base; as, a partite leaf is a simple separated down nearly to the base. 

PARTITION:  The servance of common or undivided interests, particularly in real estate. It may be effected by consent of parties, or by compulsion of law.  5. (Mus.)  A score. Partition of numbers (Math.), the resolution of integers into parts subject to given conditions. Brande & C. 

PARTITIONMENT:  The act of partitioning. 

PARTITIVE:  Denoting a part; as, a partitive genitive. 

PARTITIVE:  A word expressing partition, or denoting a part. 

PARTITIVELY:  In a partitive manner. 

PARTLY:  In part; in some measure of degree; not wholly. "I partly believe it." 1 Cor. xi. 18. 

PARTNER:  An associate in any business or occupation; a member of a partnership. See Partnership.  3. pl. (Naut.)  A framework of heavy timber surrounding an opening in a deck, to strengthen it for the support of a mast, pump, capstan, or the like. Dormant, or Silent, partner. See under Dormant, a.  Syn.  -- Associate; colleague; coadjutor; confederate; partaker; participator; companion; comrade; mate. 

PARTNER:  To associate, to join. [Obs.] Shak. 

PARTNERSHIP:  A contract between two or more competent persons for joining together their money, goods, labor, and skill, or any or all of them, under an understanding that there shall be a communion of profit between them, and for the purpose of carrying on a legal trade, business, or adventure. Kent. Story.  Note: Community of profit is absolutely essential to, though not necessary the test of, a partnership.  5. (Arith.)  See Fellowship, n., 6. Limited partnership, a form of partnership in which the firm consists of one or more general partners, jointly and severally responsible as ordinary partners, and one or more special partners, who are not liable for the debts of the partnership beyond the amount of cash they contribute as capital.  -- Partnership in commendam, the title given to the limited partnership (F. société en commandité) of the French law, introduced into the code of Louisiana. Burrill.  -- Silent partnership, the relation of partnership sustained by a person who furnishes capital only. 

PARTOOK:  imp. of Partake. 

PARTURE:  Departure. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PARTURIATE:  To bring forth young. [Obs.] 

PARTURIENCY:  Parturition. 

PARTURIENT:  Bringing forth, or about to bring forth, young; fruitful. Jer. Tailor. 

PARTURIFACIENT:  A medicine tending to cause parturition, or to give relief in childbearing. Dunglison. 

PARTURIOUS:  Parturient. [Obs.] Drayton. 

PARTURITIVE:  Pertaining to parturition; obstetric. [R.] 

PARTY:  Parted or divided, as in the direction or form of one of the ordinaries; as, an escutcheon party per pale.  2. Partial; favoring one party. I will be true judge, and not party. Chaucer. Charter party. See under Charter. 

PARTY:  Partly. [Obs.] Chaucer.  PARTY-COATED Par"ty-coat`ed, a.  Having a motley coat, or coat of divers colors. Shak.  PARTY-COLORED; PARTI-COLORED Par"ty-col`ored, Par"ti-col`ored, a.  Colored with different tints; variegated; as, a party-colored flower. "Parti-colored lambs." Shak. 

PARTYISM:  Devotion to party. 

PARUMBILICAL:  Near the umbilicus; -- applied especially to one or more small veins which, in man, connect the portal vein with the epigastric veins in the front wall of the abdomen. 

PARURE:  An ornament or decoration for the person; esp., a decoration consisting of a set of ornaments to be used together; as, a parure of rubies or of embroideries. 

PARUSIA:  A figure of speech by which the present tense is used instead of the past or the future, as in the animated narration of past, or in the prediction of future, events. 

PARVANIMITY:  The state or quality of having a little or ignoble mind; pettiness; meanness; -- opposed to magnanimity. De Quincey. 

PARVENU:  An upstart; a man newly risen into notice.  PARVIS; PARVISE Par"vis, Par"vise, n. Etym: [F. parvis, fr. LL. paravisus, fr. L. paradisus. See Paradise.]  a court of entrance to, or an inclosed space before, a church; hence, a church porch; -- sometimes formerly used as place of meeting, as for lawyers. Chaucer.  PARVITUDE; PARVITY Par"vi*tude, Par"vi*ty, n. Etym: [L. parvitas, fr. parvus little: cf. OF. parvité.]  Littleness. [Obs.] Glanvill. Ray. 

PARVOLIN:  A nonoxygenous ptomaine, formed in the putrefaction of albuminous matters, especially of horseflesh and mackerel. 

PARVOLINE:  A liquid base, C 

PASAN:  The gemsbok.  PASCH; PASCHA Pasch, Pas"cha, n. Etym: [AS. pascha, L. pascha, Gr. pesach, fr. pasach to pass over: cf. OF. pasque, F. pâque. Cf. Paschal, Paas, Paque.]  The passover; the feast of Easter. Pasch egg. See Easter egg, under Easter.  -- Pasch flower. See Pasque flower, under Pasque. 

PASCHAL:  Of or pertaining to the passover, or to Easter; as, a paschal lamb; paschal eggs. Longfellow. Paschal candle (R. C. Ch.), a large wax candle, blessed and placed on the altar on Holy Saturday, or the day before Easter.  -- Paschal flower. See Pasque flower, under Pasque. 

PASENG:  The wild or bezoar goat. See Goat. 

PASH:  To strike; to crush; to smash; to dash in pieces. [Obs.] P. Plowman. "I'll pash him o'er the face." Shak. 

PASHA:  An honorary title given to officers of high rank in Turkey, as to governers of provinces, military commanders, etc. The earlier form was bashaw. [Written also pacha.]  Note: There are three classes of pashas, whose rank is distinguished by the number of the horsetails borne on their standards, being one, two, or three, a pasha of three tails being the highest. 

PASHALIC:  The jurisdiction of a pasha. 

PASHAW:  See Pasha.  PASIGRAPHIC; PASIGRAPHICAL Pas`i*graph"ic, Pas`i*graph"ic*al a.  Of or pertaining to pasigraphy. 

PASIGRAPHY:  A system of universal writing, or a manner of writing that may be understood and used by all nations. Good. 

PASILALY:  A form of speech adapted to be used by all mankind; universal language. 

PASK:  See Pasch. 

PASPY:  A kind of minuet, in triple time, of French origin, popular in the reign of Queen Elizabeth and for some time after; -- called also passing measure, and passymeasure. Percy Smith. 

PASQUE:  See Pasch. Pasque flower (Bot.), a name of several plants of the genus Anemone, section Pulsatilla. They are perennial herbs with rather large purplish blossoms, which appear in early spring, or about Easter, whence the common name. Called also campana. 

PASQUIL:  See Pasquin. [R.] 

PASQUIL:  See Pasquin. 

PASQUILANT:  A lampooner; a pasquiler. [R.] Coleridge. 

PASQUILER:  A lampooner. [R.] Burton. 

PASQUIN:  A lampooner; also, a lampoon. See Pasquinade. The Grecian wits, who satire first began, Were pleasant pasquins on the life of man. Dryden. 

PASQUIN:  To lampoon; to satiraze. [R.] To see himself pasquined and affronted. Dryden. 

PASQUINADE:  A lampoon or satirical writing. Macaulay. 

PASQUINADE:  To lampoon, to satirize. 

PASS:  To be conveyed or transferred by will, deed, or other instrument of conveyance; as, an estate passes by a certain clause in a deed. Mozley & W.  15. (Fencing)  To make a lunge or pass; to thrust.  16. (Card Playing)  To decline to play in one's turn; in euchre, to decline to make the trump. She would not play, yet must not pass. Prior. To bring to pass, To come to pass. See under Bring, and Come.  -- To pass away, to disappear; to die; to vanish. "The heavens shall pass away." 2 Pet. iii. 10. "I thought to pass away before, but yet alive I am." Tennyson.  -- To pass by, to go near and beyond a certain person or place; as, he passed by as we stood there.  -- To pass into, to change by a gradual transmission; to blend or unite with.  -- To pass on, to proceed.  -- To pass on or upon. (a) To happen to; to come upon; to affect. "So death passed upon all men." Rom. v. 12. "Provided no indirect act pass upon our prayers to define them." Jer. Taylor. (b) To determine concerning; to give judgment or sentence upon. "We may not pass upon his life." Shak.  -- To pass off, to go away; to cease; to disappear; as, an agitation passes off.  -- To pass over, to go from one side or end to the other; to cross, as a river, road, or bridge. 

PASS:  To go from one limit to the other of; to spend; to live through; to have experience of; to undergo; to suffer. "To pass commodiously this life." Milton. She loved me for the dangers I had passed. Shak.  (c) To go by without noticing; to omit attention to; to take no note of; to disregard. Please you that I may pass This doing. Shak. I pass their warlike pomp, their proud array. Dryden.  (d) To transcend; to surpass; to excel; to exceed. And strive to pass . . . Their native music by her skillful art. Spenser. Whose tender power Passes the strength of storms in their most desolate hour. Byron.  (e) To go successfully through, as an examination, trail, test, etc.; to obtain the formal sanction of, as a legislative body; as, he passed his examination; the bill passed the senate.  2. In causative senses: as: (a) To cause to move or go; to send; to transfer from one person, place, or condition to another; to transmit; to deliver; to hand; to make over; as, the waiter passed bisquit and cheese; the torch was passed from hand to hand. I had only time to pass my eye over the medals. Addison. Waller passed over five thousand horse and foot by Newbridge. Clarendon.  (b) To cause to pass the lips; to utter; to pronounce; hence, to promise; to pledge; as, to pass sentence. Shak. Father, thy word is passed. Milton.  (c) To cause to advance by stages of progress; to carry on with success through an ordeal, examination, or action; specifically, to give legal or official sanction to; to ratify; to enact; to approve as valid and just; as, he passed the bill through the committee; the senate passed the law. (e) To put in circulation; to give currency to; as, to pass counterfeit money. "Pass the happy news." Tennyson. (f) To cause to obtain entrance, admission, or conveyance; as, to pass a person into a theater, or over a railroad.  3. To emit from the bowels; to evacuate.  4. (Naut.)  To take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure.  5. (Fencing)  To make, as a thrust, punto, etc. Shak. Passed midshipman. See under Midshipman.  -- To pass a dividend, to omit the declaration and payment of a dividend at the time when due.  -- To pass away, to spend; to waste. "Lest she pass away the flower of her age." Ecclus. xlii. 9.  -- To pass by. (a) To disregard; to neglect. (b) To excuse; to spare; to overlook.  -- To pass off, to impose fraudulently; to palm off. "Passed himself off as a bishop." Macaulay.  -- To pass (something) on or upon (some one), to put upon as a trick or cheat; to palm off. "She passed the child on her husband for a boy." Dryden.  -- To pass over, to overlook; not to note or resent; as, to pass over an affront. 

PASS:  A thrust or push; an attempt to stab or strike an adversary. Shak.  3. A movement of the hand over or along anything; the manipulation of a mesmerist.  4. (Rolling Metals)  A single passage of a bar, rail, sheet, etc., between the rolls.  5. State of things; condition; predicament. Have his daughters brought him to this pass. Shak. Matters have been brought to this pass. South.  6. Permission or license to pass, or to go and come; a psssport; a ticket permitting free transit or admission; as, a railroad or theater pass; a military pass. A ship sailing under the flag and pass of an enemy. Kent.  7. Fig.: a thrust; a sally of wit. Shak.  8. Estimation; character. [Obs.] Common speech gives him a worthy pass. Shak.  9. Etym: [Cf. Passus.]  A part; a division. [Obs.] Chaucer. Pass boat (Naut.), a punt, or similar boat.  -- Pass book. (a) A book in which a trader enters articles bought on credit, and then passes or sends it to the purchaser. (b) See Bank book.  -- Pass box (Mil.), a wooden or metallic box, used to carry cartridges from the service magazine to the piece.  -- Pass check, a ticket of admission to a place of entertainment, or of readmission for one who goes away in expectation of returning. 

PASSABLENESS:  The quality of being passable. 

PASSABLY:  Tolerably; moderately.  PASSACAGLIA; PASSACAGLIO Pas`sa*ca*glia, Pas`sa*ca*glio, n. Etym: [Sp. pasacalle a certain tune on the guitar, prop., a tune played in passing through the streets.] (Mus.)  An old Italian or Spanish dance tune, in slow three-four measure, with divisions on a ground bass, resembling a chaconne.  PASSADE; PASSADO Pas*sade", Pas*sa"do, n. Etym: [F. passade; cf. Sp. pasada. See Pass, v. i.]  1. (Fencing)  A pass or thrust. Shak.  2. (Man.)  A turn or course of a horse backward or forward on the same spot of ground. 

PASSAGER:  A passenger; a bird or boat of passage. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. 

PASSAGEWAY:  A way for passage; a hall. See Passage, 5. 

PASSANT:  Walking; -- said of any animal on an escutcheon, which is represented as walking with the dexter paw raised.  PASSE; PASSEE Pas`sé", masc. Pas`sé"e, fem., a. Etym: [F.]  Past; gone by; hence, past one's prime; worn; faded; as, a passée belle. Ld. Lytton. 

PASSEGARDE:  A ridge or projecting edge on a shoulder piece to turn the blow of a lance or other weapon from the joint of the armor. 

PASSEMENT:  Lace, gimp, braid etc., sewed on a garment. Sir W. Scott. 

PASSEMENTERIE:  Beaded embroidery for women's dresses. 

PASSENGER:  A unit of measurement of the passenger transportation performed by a railroad during a given period, usually a year, the total of which consists of the sum of the miles traversed by all the passengers on the road in the period in question.  PASSENGER MILEAGE Passenger mileage. (Railroads)  Passenger miles collectively; the total number of miles traveled by passengers on a railroad during a given period.  PASSE PARTOUT Passe" par`tout", n. Etym: [F., from passer to pass + partout everywhere.]  1. That by which one can pass anywhere; a safe-conduct. [Obs.] Dryden.  2. A master key; a latchkey.  3. A light picture frame or mat of cardboard, wood, or the like, usually put between the picture and the glass, and sometimes serving for several pictures. 

PASSER:  One who passes; a passenger.  PASSER-BY Pass`er-by", n.  One who goes by; a passer. 

PASSERES:  An order, or suborder, of birds, including more that half of all the known species. It embraces all singing birds (Oscines), together with many other small perching birds. 

PASSERIFORM:  Like or belonging to the Passeres. 

PASSERINE:  Of or pertaining to the Passeres. The columbine, gallinaceous, and passerine tribes people the fruit trees. Sydney Smith. 

PASSERINE:  One of the Passeres. 

PASSIBILITY:  The quality or state of being passible; aptness to feel or suffer; sensibility. Hakewill. 

PASSIBLE:  Susceptible of feeling or suffering, or of impressions from external agents. Apolinarius, which held even deity itself passible. Hooker. 

PASSIBLENESS:  Passibility. Brerewood. 

PASSIFLORA:  A genus of plants, including the passion flower. It is the type of the order Passifloreæ, which includes about nineteen genera and two hundred and fifty species. 

PASSIM:  Here and there; everywhere; as, this word occurs passim in the poem. 

PASSING:  The act of one who, or that which, passes; the act of going by or away. Passing bell, a tolling of a bell to announce that a soul is passing, or has passed, from its body (formerly done to invoke prayers for the dying); also, a tolling during the passing of a funeral procession to the grave, or during funeral ceremonies. Sir W. Scott. Longfellow. 

PASSING:  Exceedingly; excessively; surpassingly; as, passing fair; passing strange. "You apprehend passing shrewdly." Shak. 

PASSINGLY:  Exceedingly. Wyclif. 

PASSION:  To give a passionate character to. [R.] Keats. 

PASSION:  To suffer pain or sorrow; to experience a passion; to be extremely agitated. [Obs.] "Dumbly she passions, frantically she doteth." Shak. 

PASSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to passion or the passions; exciting, influenced by, or ministering to, the passions.  -- n.  A passionary. 

PASSIONARY:  A book in which are described the sufferings of saints and martyrs. T. Warton. 

PASSIONATENESS:  The state or quality of being passionate. 

PASSIONIST:  A member of a religious order founded in Italy in 1737, and introduced into the United States in 1852. The members of the order unite the austerities of the Trappists with the activity and zeal of the Jesuits and Lazarists. Called also Barefooted Clerks of the Most Holy Cross. 

PASSIONLESS:  Void of passion; without anger or emotion; not easily excited; calm. "Self-contained and passionless." Tennyson. 

PASSIONTIDE:  The last fortnight of Lent. 

PASSIVE:  Inactive; inert; not showing strong affinity; as, red phosphorus is comparatively passive.  4. (Med.)  Designating certain morbid conditions, as hemorrhage or dropsy, characterized by relaxation of the vessels and tissues, with deficient vitality and lack of reaction in the affected tissues. Passive congestion (Med.), congestion due to obstruction to the return of the blood from the affected part.  -- Passive iron (Chem.), iron which has been subjected to the action of heat, of strong nitric acid, chlorine, etc. It is then not easily acted upon by acids.  -- Passive movement (Med.), a movement of a part, in order to exercise it, made without the assistance of the muscles which ordinarily move the part.  -- Passive obedience (as used by writers on government), obedience or submission of the subject or citizen as a duty in all cases to the existing government.  -- Passive prayer, among mystic divines, a suspension of the activity of the soul or intellectual faculties, the soul remaining quiet, and yielding only to the impulses of grace.  -- Passive verb, or Passive voice (Gram.), a verb, or form of a verb, which expresses the effect of the action of some agent; as, in Latin, doceor, I am taught; in English, she is loved; the picture is admired by all; he is assailed by slander.  Syn.  -- Inactive; inert; quiescent; unresisting; unopposing; suffering; enduring; submissive; patient.  PASSIVE BALLOON; PASSIVE AEROPLANE Pas"sive bal*loon" or a"ër*o*plane.  One unprovided with motive power.  PASSIVE FLIGHT Passive flight.  Flight, such as gliding and soaring, accomplished without the use of motive power. 

PASSIVENESS:  The quality or state of being passive; unresisting submission. To be an effect implies passiveness, or the being subject to the power and action of its cause. J. Edwards. 

PASSIVITY:  The tendency of a body to remain in a given state, either of motion or rest, till disturbed by another body; inertia. Cheyne.  3. (Chem.)  The quality or condition of any substance which has no inclination to chemical activity; inactivity.  PASS-KEY Pass"-key`, n.  A key for opening more locks than one; a master key. 

PASSLESS:  Having no pass; impassable. Cowley. 

PASSMAN:  One who passes for a degree, without honors. See Classman, 2. [Eng. Univ.] 

PASSOVER:  An order passed from front to rear by word of mouth. 

PASSUS:  A division or part; a canto; as, the passus of Piers Plowman. See 2d Fit. 

PASSWORD:  A word to be given before a person is allowed to pass; a watchword; a countersign. Macaulay. 

PASSYMEASURE:  See Paspy. Shak. 

PAST:  Of or pertaining to a former time or state; neither present nor future; gone by; elapsed; ended; spent; as, past troubles; past offences. "Past ages." Milton. Past master. See under Master. 

PAST:  A former time or state; a state of things gone by. "The past, at least, is secure." D. Webster. The present is only intelligible in the light of the past, often a very remote past indeed. Trench. 

PAST:  By; beyond; as, he ran past. The alarum of drums swept past. Longfellow. 

PASTE:  The mineral substance in which other minerals are imbedded. Paste eel (Zoöl.), the vinegar eel. See under Vinegar. 

PASTE:  To unite with paste; to fasten or join by means of paste. 

PASTEBOARD:  A board on which pastry dough is rolled; a molding board. 

PASTEL:  A plant affording a blue dye; the woad (Isatis tinctoria); also, the dye itself. 

PASTEURIAN:  Of or pertaining to Pasteur. 

PASTEURIZATION:  A process devised by Pasteur for preventing or checking fermentation in fluids, such as wines, milk, etc., by exposure to a temperature of 140º F., thus destroying the vitality of the contained germs or ferments. 

PASTEURIZER:  One that Pasteurizes, specif. an apparatus for heating and agitating, fluid.  PASTEUR'S FLUID Pas`teur's" flu"id. (Biol.)  An artificial nutrient fluid invented by Pasteur for the study of alcoholic fermentation, but used also for the cultivation of bacteria and other organisms. It contains all the elements of protoplasm, and was originally made of the ash of yeast, some ammonia compound, sugar, and water. 

PASTICCIO:  A small cone or mass made of paste of gum, benzoin, cinnamon, and other aromatics, -- used for fumigating or scenting the air of a room.  2. An aromatic or medicated lozenge; a troche.  3. See Pastel, a crayon. 

PASTIME:  That which amuses, and serves to make time pass agreeably; sport; amusement; diversion. 

PASTIME:  To sport; to amuse one's self. [R.] 

PASTOR:  A species of starling (Pastor roseus), native of the plains of Western Asia and Eastern Europe. Its head is crested and glossy greenish black, and its back is rosy. It feeds largely upon locusts. 

PASTORAGE:  The office, jurisdiction, or duty, of a pastor; pastorate. 

PASTORAL:  A cantata relating to rural life; a composition for instruments characterized by simplicity and sweetness; a lyrical composition the subject of which is taken from rural life. Moore (Encyc. of Music).  3. (Eccl.)  A letter of a pastor to his charge; specifically, a letter addressed by a bishop to his diocese; also (Prot. Epis. Ch.), a letter of the House of Bishops, to be read in each parish. 

PASTORALE:  A composition in a soft, rural style, generally in 6-8 or 12-8 time.  2. A kind of dance; a kind of figure used in a dance. 

PASTORATE:  The office, state, or jurisdiction of a pastor. 

PASTORIUM:  A parsonage; -- so called in some Baptist churches. [Southern U. S.] 

PASTORLESS:  Having no pastor. 

PASTORLING:  An insignificant pastor. [R.] 

PASTORLY:  Appropriate to a pastor. Milton. 

PASTORSHIP:  Pastorate. Bp. Bull. 

PASTURABLE:  Fit for pasture. 

PASTURE:  To feed, esp. to feed on growing grass; to supply grass as food for; as, the farmer pastures fifty oxen; the land will pasture forty cows. 

PASTURE:  To feed on growing grass; to graze. 

PASTURELESS:  Destitute of pasture. Milton. 

PASTURER:  One who pastures; one who takes cattle to graze. See Agister. 

PASTY:  Like paste, as in color, softness, stickness. "A pasty complexion." G. Eliot. 

PASTY:  A pie consisting usually of meat wholly surrounded with a crust made of a sheet of paste, and often baked without a dish; a meat pie. "If ye pinch me like a pasty." Shak. "Apple pasties." Dickens. A large pasty baked in a pewter platter. Sir W. Scott. 

PAT:  To strike gently with the fingers or hand; to stroke lightly; to tap; as, to pat a dog. Gay pats my shoulder, and you vanish quite. Pope. 

PAT:  Exactly suitable; fit; convenient; timely. "Pat allusion." Barrow. 

PAT:  In a pat manner. I foresaw then 't would come in pat hereafter. Sterne. 

PATACA:  The Spanish dollar; -- called also patacoon. [Obs.] 

PATACHE:  A tender to a fleet, formerly used for conveying men, orders, or treasure. [Spain & Portugal] 

PATACOON:  See Pataca. 

PATAGIUM:  In bats, an expansion of the integument uniting the fore limb with the body and extending between the elongated fingers to form the wing; in birds, the similar fold of integument uniting the fore limb with the body.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of a pair of small vesicular organs situated at the bases of the anterior wings of lepidopterous insects. See Illust. of Butterfly. 

PATAGONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Patagonia.  -- n.  A native of Patagonia. 

PATAMAR:  A vessel resembling a grab, used in the coasting trade of Bombay and Ceylon. [Written also pattemar.] 

PATAS:  A West African long-tailed monkey (Cercopithecus ruber); the red monkey. 

PATAVINITY:  The use of local or provincial words, as in the peculiar style or diction of Livy, the Roman historian; -- so called from Patavium, now Padua, the place of Livy's nativity. 

PATCH:  A piece of greased cloth or leather used as wrapping for a rifle ball, to make it fit the bore.  5. Fig.: Anything regarded as a patch; a small piece of ground; a tract; a plot; as, scattered patches of trees or growing corn. Employed about this patch of ground. Bunyan.  6. (Mil.)  A block on the muzzle of a gun, to do away with the effect of dispart, in sighting.  7. A paltry fellow; a rogue; a ninny; a fool. [Obs. or Colloq.] "Thou scurvy patch." Shak. Patch ice, ice in overlapping pieces in the sea.  -- Soft patch, a patch for covering a crack in a metallic vessel, as a steam boiler, consisting of soft material, as putty, covered and held in place by a plate bolted or riveted fast. 

PATCHER:  One who patches or botches. Foxe. 

PATCHERY:  Botchery; covering of defects; bungling; hypocrisy. [R.] Shak. 

PATCHINGLY:  Knavishy; deceitfully. [Obs.]  PATCHOULI; PATCHOULY Pa*tchou"li, Pa*tchou"ly, n. Etym: [CF. F. patchouli; prob. of East Indian origin.]  1. (Bot.)  A mintlike plant (Pogostemon Patchouli) of the East Indies, yielding an essential oil from which a highly valued perfume is made.  2. The perfume made from this plant. Patchouly camphor (Chem.), a substance homologous with and resembling borneol, found in patchouly oil. 

PATCHWORK:  Work composed of pieces sewed together, esp. pieces of various colors and figures; hence, anything put together of incongruous or ill-adapted parts; something irregularly clumsily composed; a thing putched up. Swift. 

PATCHY:  Full of, or covered with, patches; abounding in patches. 

PATE:  See Patté. 

PATE:  A kind of platform with a parapet, usually of an oval form, and generally erected in marshy grounds to cover a gate of a fortified place. [R.] 

PATED:  Having a pate; -- used only in composition; as, long-pated; shallow-pated. 

PATEE:  See Pattee. 

PATEFACTION:  The act of opening, disclosing, or manifesting; open declaration. Jer. Taylor. 

PATELA:  A large flat-bottomed trading boat peculiar to the river Ganges; -- called also puteli. 

PATELLA:  The kneepan; the cap of the knee.  3. (Zoöl.)  A genus of marine gastropods, including many species of limpets. The shell has the form of a flattened cone. The common European limpet (Patella vulgata) is largely used for food.  4. (Bot.)  A kind of apothecium in lichens, which is orbicular, flat, and sessile, and has a special rim not a part of the thallus. 

PATELLAR:  Of or pertaining to the patella, or kneepan. 

PATELLIFORM:  Resembling a limpet of the genus Patella. 

PATELLULA:  A cuplike sucker on the feet of certain insects. 

PATEN:  The place on which the consecrated bread is placed in the Eucharist, or on which the host is placed during the Mass. It is usually small, and formed as to fit the chalice, or cup, as a cover. [Written also patin, patine.] 

PATENA:  A paten. 

PATENA:  A grassy expanse in the hill region of Ceylon. 

PATENT:  Open; expanded; evident; apparent; unconcealed; manifest; public; conspicuous. He had received instructions, both patent and secret. Motley.  2. Open to public perusal; -- said of a document conferring some right or privilege; as, letters patent. See Letters patent, under 3d Letter.  3. Appropriated or protected by letters patent; secured by official authority to the exclusive possession, control, and disposal of some person or party; patented; as, a patent right; patent medicines. Madder . . . in King Charles the First's time, was made a patent commodity. Mortimer.  4. (Bot.)  Spreading; forming a nearly right angle with the steam or branch; as, a patent leaf. Patent leather, a varnished or lacquered leather, used for boots and shoes, and in carriage and harness work.  -- Patent office, a government bureau for the examination of inventions and the granting of patents.  -- Patent right. (a) The exclusive right to an invention, and the control of its manufacture. (b) (Law) The right, granted by the sovereign, of exclusive control of some business of manufacture, or of the sale of certain articles, or of certain offices or prerogatives.  -- Patent rolls, the registers, or records, of patents. 

PATENT:  To grant by patent; to make the subject of a patent; to secure or protect by patent; as, to patent an invention; to patent public lands. 

PATENTABLE:  Suitable to be patented; capable of being patented. 

PATENTEE:  One to whom a grant is made, or a privilege secured, by patent. Bacon.  PATENT-HAMMERED Pat"ent-ham"mered, a. (Stone Cutting)  Having a surface dressed by cutting with a hammer the head of which consists of broad thin chisels clamped together. 

PATENTLY:  Openly; evidently. 

PATERA:  A circular ornament, resembling a dish, often worked in relief on friezes, and the like. 

PATERERO:  See Pederero. [Obs.] 

PATERFAMILIAS:  The head of a family; in a large sense, the proprietor of an estate; one who is his own master. 

PATERNALISM:  The theory or practice of paternal government. See Paternal government, under Paternal. London Times. 

PATERNALLY:  In a paternal manner. 

PATERNOSTER:  A beadlike ornament in moldings.  3. (Angling)  A line with a row of hooks and bead Paternoster pump, Paternoster wheel, a chain pump; a noria.  -- Paternoster while, the space of time required for repeating a paternoster. Udall. 

PATESI:  A religious as well as a secular designation applied to rulers of some of the city states of ancient Chaldea, as Lagash or Shirpurla, who were conceived to be direct representatives of the tutelary god of the place. 

PATH:  To make a path in, or on (something), or for (some one). [R.] "Pathing young Henry's unadvised ways." Drayton. 

PATH:  To walk or go. [R.] Shak. 

PATHEMATIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, emotion or suffering. [R.] Chalmers. 

PATHETICAL:  Pathetic. [R.] -- Pa*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Pa*thet"ic*al*ness, n. 

PATHETISM:  See Mesmerism. L. Sunderland. 

PATHFINDER:  One who discovers a way or path; one who explores untraversed regions. The cow is the true pathfinder and pathmaker. J. Burroughs. 

PATHIC:  A male who submits to the crime against nature; a catamite. [R.] B. Jonson. 

PATHIC:  Passive; suffering. 

PATHLESS:  Having no beaten path or way; untrodden; impenetrable; as, pathless woods. Trough the heavens' wide, pathless way. Milton. 

PATHMAKER:  One who, or that which, makes a way or path. 

PATHOGENE:  One of a class of virulent microörganisms or bacteria found in the tissues and fluids in infectious diseases, and supposed to be the cause of the disease; a pathogenic organism; a pathogenic bacterium; -- opposed to zymogene. 

PATHOGENESIS:  Pathogeny. 

PATHOGENETIC:  Pathogenic. 

PATHOGENIC:  Of or pertaining to pathogeny; producting disease; as, a pathogenic organism; a pathogenic bacterium. 

PATHOGNOMONIC:  Specially or decisively characteristic of a disease; indicating with certainty a disease; as, a pathognomonic symptom. The true pathognomonic sign of love jealousy. Arbuthnot. 

PATHOGNOMY:  Expression of the passions; the science of the signs by which human passions are indicated.  PATHOLOGIC; PATHOLOGICAL Path`o*log"ic, Path`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. pathologique.]  Of or pertaining to pathology.  -- Path`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PATHOLOGIST:  One skilled in pathology; an investigator in pathology; as, the pathologist of a hospital, whose duty it is to determine the causes of the diseases. 

PATHOLOGY:  The science which treats of diseases, their nature, causes, progress, symptoms, etc.  Note: Pathology is general or special, according as it treats of disease or morbid processes in general, or of particular diseases; it is also subdivided into internal and external, or medical and surgical pathology. Its departments are nosology, ætiology, morbid anatomy, symptomatology, and therapeutics, which treat respectively of the classification, causation, organic changes, symptoms, and cure of diseases. Celluar pathology, a theory that gives prominence to the vital action of cells in the healthy and diseased function of the body. Virchow. 

PATHOPOELA:  A speech, or figure of speech, designed to move the passion. Smart. 

PATHOS:  That quality or property of anything which touches the feelings or excites emotions and passions, esp., that which awakens tender emotions, such as pity, sorrow, and the like; contagious warmth of feeling, action, or expression; pathetic quality; as, the pathos of a picture, of a poem, or of a cry. The combination of incident, and the pathos of catastrophe. T. Warton. 

PATHWAY:  A footpath; a beaten track; any path or course. Also used figuratively. Shak. In the way of righteousness is life; and in the pathway thereof is no death. Prov. xii. 28. We tread the pathway arm in arm. Sir W. Scott. 

PATIBLE:  Sufferable; tolerable; endurable. [Obs.] Bailey. 

PATIBULARY:  Of or pertaining to the gallows, or to execution. [R.] Carlyle. 

PATIBULATED:  Hanged on a gallows. [R.] 

PATIENCE:  A kind of dock (Rumex Patientia), less common in America than in Europe; monk's rhubarb.  6. (Card Playing)  Solitaire.  Syn.  -- Patience, Resignation. Patience implies the quietness or self- possession of one's own spirit under sufferings, provocations, etc.; resignation implies submission to the will of another. The Stoic may have patience; the Christian should have both patience and resignation. 

PATIENT:  To compose, to calm. [Obs.] "Patient yourself, madam." Shak. 

PATIENTLY:  In a patient manner. Cowper.  PATIN; PATINE Pat"in, Pat"ine, n.  A plate. See Paten. "Inlaid with patines of bright gold." Shak. 

PATINA:  The color or incrustation which age gives to works of art; especially, the green rust which covers ancient bronzes, coins, and medals. Fairholt. 

PATIO:  A paved yard or floor where ores are cleaned and sorted, or where ore, salt, mercury, etc., are trampled by horses, to effect intermixture and amalgamation.  Note: The patioprocess is used to reduce silver ores by amalgamation. 

PATISSERIE:  Pastry. Sterne. 

PATLY:  Fitly; seasonably. Barrow. 

PATNESS:  Fitness or appropriateness; striking suitableness; convenience. The description with equal patness may suit both. Barrow. 

PATOIS:  A dialect peculiar to the illiterate classes; a provincial form of speech. The jargon and patois of several provinces. Sir T. Browne. 

PATOLLI:  An American Indian game analogous to dice, probably originally a method of divination. 

PATONCE:  Having the arms growing broader and floriated toward the end; - - said of a cross. See Illust. 9 of Cross. 

PATRIAL:  Derived from the name of a country, and designating an inhabitant of the country; gentile; -- said of a noun.  -- n.  A patrial noun. Thus Romanus, a Roman, and Troas, a woman of Troy, are patrial nouns, or patrials. Andrews. 

PATRIARCH:  A dignitary superior to the order of archbishops; as, the patriarch of Constantinople, of Alexandria, or of Antioch.  3. A venerable old man; an elder. Also used figuratively. The patriarch hoary, the sage of his kith and the hamlet. Longfellow. The monarch oak, the partiarch of trees. Dryde. 

PATRIARCHAL:  Having an organization of society and government in which the head of the family exercises authority over all its generations. Patriarchal cross (Her.), a cross, the shaft of which is intersected by two transverse beams, the upper one being the smaller. See Illust. (2) of Cross.  -- Patriarchal dispensation, the divine dispensation under which the patriarchs lived before the law given by Moses. 

PATRIARCHATE:  A patriarchal form of government or society. See Patriarchal, a., 3. 

PATRIARCHDOM:  The office or jurisdiction of a patriarch; patriarchate. [R.] 

PATRIARCHIC:  Patriarchal. 

PATRIARCHISM:  Government by a patriarch, or the head of a family. 

PATRIARCHSHIP:  A patriarchate. Ayliffe. 

PATRICIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Roman patres (fathers) or senators, or patricians.  2. Of, pertaining to, or appropriate to, a person of high birth; noble; not plebeian. Born in the patrician file of society. Sir W. Scott. His horse's hoofs wet with patrician blood. Addison. 

PATRICIAN:  Originally, a member of any of the families constituting the populus Romanus, or body of Roman citizens, before the development of the plebeian order; later, one who, by right of birth or by special privilege conferred, belonged to the nobility.  2. A person of high birth; a nobleman.  3. One familiar with the works of the Christian Fathers; one versed in patristic lore. [R.] Colridge. 

PATRICIANISM:  The rank or character of patricians. 

PATRICIATE:  The patrician class; the aristocracy; also, the office of patriarch. Milman. 

PATRICIDAL:  Of or pertaining to patricide; parricidal. 

PATRIMONIAL:  Of or pertaining to a patrimony; inherited from ancestors; as, a patrimonial estate. 

PATRIMONIALLY:  By inheritance. 

PATRIOT:  One who loves his country, and zealously supports its authority and interests. Bp. Hall. Such tears as patriots shaed for dying laws. Pope. 

PATRIOT:  Becoming to a patriot; patriotic. 

PATRIOTIC:  Inspired by patriotism; actuated by love of one's country; zealously and unselfishly devoted to the service of one's country; as, a patriotic statesman, vigilance. 

PATRIOTICAL:  Patriotic; that pertains to a patriot.  -- Pa`tri*ot"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PATRIOTISM:  Love of country; devotion to the welfare of one's country; the virtues and actions of a patriot; the passion which inspires one to serve one's country. Berkley.  PATRIOTS' DAY Pa"tri*ots' Day.  A legal holiday in the States of Massachusetts and Maine, April 19, the anniversary of the battle of Lexington in 1775. It was first observed in 1894. [U. S.] 

PATRIPASSIAN:  One of a body of believers in the early church who denied the independent preëxistent personality of Christ, and who, accordingly, held that the Father suffered in the Son; a monarchian.  -- Pa`tri*pas"sian*ism, n. 

PATRIST:  One versed in patristics.  PATRISTIC; PATRISTICAL Pa*tris"tic, Pa*tris"tic*al, a. Etym: [F. patristique. See Paternal.]  Of or pertaining to the Fathers of the Christian church. The voluminous editor of Jerome anf of tons of patristic theology. I. Taylor. 

PATRISTICS:  That departnent of historical theology which treats of the lives and doctrines of the Fathers of the church. 

PATRIZATE:  To imitate one's father. [R.] 

PATROCINATE:  To support; to patronize. [Obs.] Urquhart. 

PATROCINATION:  The act of patrocinating or patronizing. [Obs.] "Patrocinations of treason." Bp. Hall. 

PATROCINY:  See Patrocination. 

PATROL:  To go the rounds along a chain of sentinels; to traverse a police district or beat. 

PATROL:  t To go the rounds of, as a sentry, guard, or policeman; as, to patrol a frontier; to patrol a beat. 

PATROLE:  See Patrol, n. & v. 

PATROLMAN:  One who patrols; a watchman; especially, a policeman who patrols a particular precinct of a town or city. 

PATRON:  One who has gift and disposition of a benefice. [Eng.]  5. A guardian saint.  -- called also patron saint.  6. (Naut.)  See Padrone, 2. Patrons of Husbandry, the grangers. See Granger, 2. 

PATRON:  To be a patron of; to patronize; to favor. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PATRON:  Doing the duty of a patron; giving aid or protection; tutelary. Dryden. Patron saint (R. C. Ch.), a saint regarded as the peculiar protector of a country, community, church, profession, etc., or of an individual. 

PATRONAGE:  The right of presentation to church or ecclesiastical benefice; advowson. Blackstone. 

PATRONAGE:  To act as a patron of; to maintain; to defend. [Obs.] Shak. 

PATRONAL:  Patron; protecting; favoring. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PATRONATE:  The right or duty of a patron; patronage. [R.] Westm. Rev. 

PATRONESS:  A female patron or helper. Spenser. Night, best patroness of grief. Milton. 

PATRONIZATION:  The act of patronizing; patronage; support. [R.] 

PATRONIZER:  One who patronizes. 

PATRONIZING:  Showing condescending favor; assuming the manner of airs of a superior toward another.  -- Pat"ron*i`zing*ly, adv. Thackeray. 

PATRONLESS:  Destitute of a patron. 

PATRONOMAYOLOGY:  That branch of knowledge which deals with personal names and their origin; the study of patronymics. 

PATRONYMIC:  Derived from ancestors; as, a patronymic denomination. 

PATRONYMIC:  A modification of the father's name borne by the son; a name derived from that of a parent or ancestor; as, Pelides, the son of Peleus; Johnson, the son of John; Macdonald, the son of Donald; Paulowitz, the son of Paul; also, the surname of a family; the family name. M. A. Lower. 

PATRONYMICAL:  Same as Patronymic. 

PATROON:  One of the proprietors of certain tracts of land with manorial privileges and right of entail, under the old Dutch governments of New York and New Jersey. 

PATROONSHIP:  The office of a patroon. Irving.  PATTE; PATTEE Pat`té", Pat*tee", a. Etym: [F. patté, fem. pattée, fr. patte paw, foot. Cf. Patten.] (Her.)  Narrow at the inner, and very broad at the other, end, or having its arms of that shape; -- said of a cross. See Illust. (8) of Cross. [Written also paté, patee.] 

PATTEMAR:  See Patamar. 

PATTENED:  Wearing pattens. "Some pattened girl." Jane Austen. 

PATTER:  To mutter; as prayers. [The hooded clouds] patter their doleful prayers. Longfellow. To patter flash, to talk in thieves' cant. [Slang] 

PATTERER:  One who patters, or talks glibly; specifically, a street peddler. [Cant, Eng.] 

PATTERN:  A full-sized model around which a mold of sand is made, to receive the melted metal. It is usually made of wood and in several parts, so as to be removed from the mold without injuring it. Pattern box, chain, or cylinder (Figure Weaving), devices, in a loom, for presenting several shuttles to the picker in the proper succession for forming the figure.  -- Pattern card. (a) A set of samples on a card. (b) (Weaving) One of the perforated cards in a Jacquard apparatus.  -- Pattern reader, one who arranges textile patterns.  -- Pattern wheel (Horology), a count-wheel. 

PATTERN:  A process of desilverizing argentiferous lead by repeated meltings and skimmings, which concentrate the silver in the molten bath, the final skimmings being nearly pure lad. The processwas invented in 1833 by Hugh Lee Pattinson, an English metallurgist. 

PATTY:  A little pie. 

PATULOUS:  Open; expanded; slightly spreading; having the parts loose or dispersed; as, a patulous calyx; a patulous cluster of flowers. The eyes are large and patulous. Sir J. Hill. 

PAU:  See Pah. 

PAUCILOQUENT:  Uttering few words; brief in speech. [R.] 

PAUCILOQUY:  Brevity in speech. [R.] 

PAUCISPIRAL:  Having few spirals, or whorls; as, a paucispiral operculum or shell. 

PAUCITY:  The scup. See Porgy, and Scup. 

PAUHAUGEN:  The menhaden; -- called also poghaden. 

PAUL:  See Pawl. 

PAUL:  An Italian silver coin. See Paolo. 

PAULDRON:  A piece of armor covering the shoulder at the junction of the body piece and arm piece.  PAULIAN; PAULIANIST Pau"li*an, Pau"li*an*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)  A follower of Paul of Samosata, a bishop of Antioch in the third century, who was deposed for denying the divinity of Christ. 

PAULICIAN:  One of a sect of Christian dualists originating in Armenia in the seventh century. They rejected the Old Testament and the part of the New. 

PAULIN:  See Tarpaulin. 

PAULINE:  Of or pertaining to the apostle Paul, or his writings; resembling, or conforming to, the writings of Paul; as, the Pauline epistles; Pauline doctrine. My religion had always been Pauline. J. H. Newman. 

PAULIST:  A member of The Institute of the Missionary Priests of St. Paul the Apostle, founded in 1858 by the Rev. I. T. Hecker of New York. The majority of the members were formerly Protestants. 

PAULOWNIA:  A genus of trees of the order Scrophulariaceæ, consisting of one species, Paulownia imperialis.  Note: The tree is native to Japan, and has immense heart-shaped leaves, and large purplish flowers in panicles. The capsules contain many little winged seeds, which are beautiful microscopic objects. The tree is hardy in America as far north as Connecticut. 

PAUM:  To palm off by fraud; to cheat at cards. [Obs.] Swift. 

PAUNCE:  The pansy. "The pretty paunce." Spenser. 

PAUNCH:  The belly and its contents; the abdomen; also, the first stomach, or rumen, of ruminants. See Rumen.  2. (Naut.)  A paunch mat; -- called also panch.  3. The thickened rim of a bell, struck by the clapper. Paunch mat (Naut.), a thick mat made of strands of rope, used to prevent the yard or rigging from chafing. 

PAUNCHY:  Pot-bellied. [R.] Dickens. 

PAUNE:  A kind of bread. See Pone. 

PAUPER:  A poor person; especially, one development on private or public charity. Also used adjectively; as, pouper immigrants, pouper labor. 

PAUPERISM:  The state of being a pauper; the state of indigent persons requiring support from the community. Whatly.  Syn.  -- Poverty; indigence; penury; want; need; destitution. See Poverty. 

PAUPERIZATION:  The act or process of reducing to pauperism. C. Kingsley. 

PAUPERIZE:  To reduce to pauperism; as, to pauperize the peasantry. 

PAUROPODA:  An order of small myriapods having only nine pairs of legs and destitute of tracheæ. 

PAUSE:  A hold. See 4th Hold, 7.  Syn.  -- Stop; cessation; suspension. 

PAUSE:  To cause to stop or rest; -- used reflexively. [R.] Shak. 

PAUSER:  One who pauses. Shak. 

PAUSINGLY:  With pauses; haltingly. Shak. 

PAUXI:  A curassow (Ourax pauxi), which, in South America, is often domesticated. 

PAVAGE:  See Pavage. [R.] 

PAVAN:  A stately and formal Spanish dance for which full state costume is worn; -- so called from the resemblance of its movements to those of the peacock. [Written also pavane, paven, pavian, and pavin.] 

PAVE:  The pavement. Nymphe du pavé ([A low euphemism.] 

PAVEMENT:  That with which anythingis paved; a floor or covering of solid material, laid so as to make a hard and convenient surface for travel; a paved road or sidewalk; a decorative interior floor of tiles or colored bricks. The riches of heaven's pavement, trodden gold. Milton. Pavement teeth (Zoöl.), flattened teeth which in certain fishes, as the skates and cestracionts, are arranged side by side, like tiles in a pavement. 

PAVEMENT:  To furnish with a pavement; to pave. [Obs.] "How richly pavemented!" Bp. Hall. 

PAVEN:  See Pavan. 

PAVER:  One who paves; one who lays a pavement. [Written also pavier and pavior.] 

PAVESADE:  A canvas screen, formerly sometimes extended along the side of a vessel in a naval engagement, to conceal from the enemy the operations on board.  PAVESE; PAVESSE Pa*vese", Pa*vesse", n.  Pavise. [Obs.] 

PAVIAGE:  A contribution or a tax for paving streets or highways. Bouvier. 

PAVIAN:  , n. See Pavan. 

PAVID:  Timid; fearful. [R.] Thackeray. 

PAVIDITY:  Timidity. [R.] 

PAVIER:  A paver. 

PAVIIN:  A glucoside found in species of the genus Pavia of the Horse- chestnut family. 

PAVILION:  A single body or mass of building, contained within simple walls and a single roof, whether insulated, as in the park or garden of a larger edifice, or united with other parts, and forming an angle or central feature of a large pile.  3. (Mil.)  A flag, colors, ensign, or banner.  4. (Her.)  Same as Tent (Her.)  5. That part of a brilliant which lies between the girdle and collet. See Illust. of Brilliant.  6. (Anat.)  The auricle of the ear; also, the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube.  7. A covering; a canopy; figuratively, the sky. The pavilion of heaven is bare. Shelley. 

PAVILION:  To furnish or cover with, or shelter in, a tent or tents. The field pavilioned with his guardians bright. Milton. 

PAVIN:  See Pavan. 

PAVISE:  A large shield covering the whole body, carried by a pavisor, who sometimes screened also an archer with it. [Written also pavais, pavese, and pavesse.] Fairholt. 

PAVISOR:  A soldier who carried a pavise. 

PAVO:  A genus of birds, including the peacocks.  2. (Astron.)  The Peacock, a constellation of the southern hemisphere. 

PAVON:  A small triangular flag, esp. one attached to a knight's lance; a pennon. 

PAVONE:  A peacock. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PAVONIAN:  Of or pertaining to a peacock. [R.] Southey. 

PAVONINE:  Like, or pertaining to, the genus Pavo.  2. Characteristic of a peacock; resembling the tail of a peacock, as in colors; iridescent. P. Cleaveland. 

PAW:  To draw the forefoot along the ground; to beat or scrape with the forefoot. Job xxxix. 21. 

PAWK:  A small lobster. Travis. 

PAWKY:  Arch; cunning; sly. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

PAWL:  A pivoted tongue, or sliding bolt, on one part of a machine, adapted to fall into notches, or interdental spaces, on another part, as a ratchet wheel, in such a manner as to permit motion in one direction and prevent it in the reverse, as in a windlass; a catch, click, or detent. See Illust. of Ratchet Wheel. [Written also paul, or pall.] Pawl bitt (Naut.), a heavy timber, set abaft the windlass, to receive the strain of the pawls.  -- Pawl rim or ring (Naut.), a stationary metallic ring surrounding the base of a capstan, having notches for the pawls to catch in. 

PAWL:  To stop with a pawl; to drop the pawls off. To pawl the capstan. See under Capstan. 

PAWN:  See Pan, the masticatory. 

PAWN:  A man or piece of the lowest rank. 

PAWNABLE:  Capable of being pawned. 

PAWNBROKER:  One who makes a business of lending money on the security of personal property pledged or deposited in his keeping. 

PAWNBROKING:  The business of a pawnbroker. 

PAWNEE:  One or two whom a pledge is delivered as security; one who takes anything in pawn. 

PAWNEES:  A tribe of Indians (called also Loups) who formerly occupied the region of the Platte river, but now live mostly in the Indian Territory. The term is often used in a wider sense to include also the related tribes of Rickarees and Wichitas. Called also Pani.  PAWNER; PAWNOR Pawn"er, Pawn*or", n. (Law)  One who pawns or pledges anything as security for the payment of borrowed money or of a debt. 

PAWPAW:  See Papaw. 

PAX:  The kiss of peace; also, the embrace in the sanctuary now substituted for it at High Mass in Roman Catholic churches.  2. (R. C. Ch.)  A tablet or board, on which is a representation of Christ, of the Virgin Mary, or of some saint and which, in the Mass, was kissed by the priest and then by the people, in mediæval times; an osculatory. It is still used in communities, confraternities, etc. Kiss the pax, and be quiet like your neighbors. Chapman. 

PAXILLOSE:  Resembling a little stake. 

PAXILLUS:  One of a peculiar kind of spines covering the surface of certain starfishes. They are pillarlike, with a flattened summit which is covered with minute spinules or granules. See Illustration in Appendix. 

PAXWAX:  The strong ligament of the back of the neck in quadrupeds. It connects the back of the skull with dorsal spines of the cervical vertebræ, and helps to support the head. Called also paxywaxy and packwax. 

PAXYWAXY:  See Paxwax. 

PAY:  To cover, as bottom of a vessel, a seam, a spar, etc., with tar or pitch, or waterproof composition of tallow, resin, etc.; to smear. 

PAY:  To give a recompense; to make payment, requital, or satisfaction; to discharge a debt. The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again. Ps. xxxvii. 21.  2. Hence, to make or secure suitable return for expense or trouble; to be remunerative or profitable; to be worth the effort or pains required; as, it will pay to ride; it will pay to wait; politeness always pays. To pay for. (a) To make amends for; to atone for; as, men often pay for their mistakes with loss of property or reputation, sometimes with life. (b) To give an equivalent for; to bear the expense of; to be mulcted on account of. 'T was I paid for your sleeps; I watched your wakings. Beau. & Fl. -- To pay off. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Naut.) To fall to leeward, as the head of a vessel under sail.  -- To pay on. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] To beat with vigor; to redouble blows. [Colloq.] -- To pay round Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Naut.) To turn the ship's head. 

PAYABLE:  A staff corps in the United States navy, consisting of pay directors, pay inspectors, paymasters, passed assistant paymasters, and assistant paymasters, having relative rank from captain to ensign, respectively.  PAY DIRT; PAY ROCK Pay dirt, Pay rock, etc. (Mining)  Earth, rock, etc., which yields a profit to the miner. [Western U. S.] 

PAYEE:  The person to whom money is to be, or has been, paid; the person named in a bill or note, to whom, or to whose order, the amount is promised or directed to be paid. See Bill of exchange, under Bill. 

PAYEN:  Pagan. Etym: [F.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PAYER:  One who pays; specifically, the person by whom a bill or note has been, or should be, paid. 

PAYMASTER:  One who pays; one who compensates, rewards, or requites; specifically, an officer or agent of a government, a corporation, or an employer, whose duty it is to pay salaries, wages, etc., and keep account of the same.  PAYMASTER-GENERAL Pay"mas`ter-gen"er*al.  1.  (a) (Mil.) In the United States army, an officer of the rank of brigadier general, who commands the pay department, which is charged with the payment of the officers and men.  (b) (Nav.) In the United States navy, the Chief of the Bureau of Provisions and Clothing, who has charge of the payment of officers and men and their clothing and subsistence. He has the rank of rear admiral.  2.  In Great Britain, an officer of the Treasury who makes all payments and disbursements, civil as well as military. He is a member of the ministry, but not of the cabinet. 

PAYN:  Bread. Having Piers Plowman. 

PAYNDEMAIN:  The finest and whitest bread made in the Middle Ages; -- called also paynemain, payman. [Obs.]  PAYNE'S PROCESS Payne's process.  A process for preserving timber and rendering it incombustible by impregnating it successively with solutions of sulphate of iron and calcium chloride in vacuo. --Payn"ize, v. t. 

PAYNIM:  See Painim. 

PAYNIZE:  To treat or preserve, as wood, by a process resembling kyanizing. 

PAYOR:  See Payer. [R.] 

PAYSE:  To poise. [Obs.] Spenser.  PAY STREAK Pay streak.  1. (Mining) The zone, parallel to the walls of a vein, in which the ore is concentrated, or any narrow streak of paying ore in less valuable material.  2.  (Oil Boring) A stratum of oil sand thick enough to make a well pay. 

PAYTINE:  An alkaloid obtained from a white bark resembling that of the cinchona, first brought from Payta, in Peru. 

PEA:  The sliding weight on a steelyard. [Written also pee.] 

PEA:  See Peak, n., 3. 

PEA:  A plant, and its fruit, of the genus Pisum, of many varieties, much cultivated for food. It has a papilionaceous flower, and the pericarp is a legume, popularly called a pod.  Note: When a definite number, more than one, is spoken of, the plural form peas is used; as, the pod contained nine peas; but, in a collective sense, the form pease is preferred; as, a bushel of pease; they had pease at dinner. This distinction is not always preserved, the form peas being used in both senses.  2. A name given, especially in the Southern States, to the seed of several leguminous plants (species of Dolichos, Cicer, Abrus, etc.) esp. those having a scar (hilum) of a different color from the rest of the seed.  Note: The name pea is given to many leguminous plants more or less closely related to the common pea. See the Phrases, below. Beach pea (Bot.), a seashore plant, Lathyrus maritimus.  -- Black-eyed pea, a West Indian name for Dolichos sphærospermus and its seed.  -- Butterfly pea, the American plant Clitoria Mariana, having showy blossoms.  -- Chick pea. See Chick-pea.  -- Egyptian pea. Same as Chick-pea.  -- Everlasting pea. See under Everlasting.  -- Glory pea. See under Glory, n.  -- Hoary pea, any plant of the genus Tephrosia; goat's rue.  -- Issue pea, Orris pea. (Med.) See under Issue, and Orris.  -- Milk pea. (Bot.) See under Milk.  -- Pea berry, a kind of a coffee bean or grain which grows single, and is round or pea-shaped; often used adjectively; as, pea-berry coffee.  -- Pea bug. (Zoöl.) Same as Pea weevil.  -- Pea coal, a size of coal smaller than nut coal.  -- Pea crab (Zoöl.), any small crab of the genus Pinnotheres, living as a commensal in bivalves; esp., the European species (P. pisum) which lives in the common mussel and the cockle.  -- Pea dove (Zoöl.), the American ground dove.  -- Pea-flower tribe (Bot.), a suborder (Papilionaceæ) of leguminous plants having blossoms essentially like that of the pea. G. Bentham.  -- Pea maggot (Zoöl.), the larva of a European moth (Tortrix pisi), which is very destructive to peas.  -- Pea ore (Min.), argillaceous oxide of iron, occurring in round grains of a size of a pea; pisolitic ore.  -- Pea starch, the starch or flour of the common pea, which is sometimes used in adulterating wheat flour, pepper, etc.  -- Pea tree (Bot.), the name of several leguminous shrubs of the genus Caragana, natives of Siberia and China.  -- Pea vine. (Bot.) (a) Any plant which bears peas. (b) A kind of vetch or tare, common in the United States (Lathyrus Americana, and other similar species).  -- Pea weevil (Zoöl.), a small weevil (Bruchus pisi) which destroys peas by eating out the interior.  -- Pigeon pea. (Bot.) See Pigeon pea.  -- Sweet pea (Bot.), the annual plant Lathyrus odoratus; also, its many-colored, sweet-scented blossoms. 

PEABIRD:  The wryneck; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.]  PEABODY BIRD Pea"bod*y bird`. (Zoöl.)  An American sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis) having a conspicuous white throat. The name is imitative of its note. Called also White-throated sparrow. 

PEACE:  A state of quiet or tranquillity; freedom from disturbance or agitation; calm; repose; specifically: (a) Exemption from, or cessation of, war with public enemies. (b) Public quiet, order, and contentment in obedience to law. (c) Exemption from, or subjection of, agitating passions; tranquillity of mind or conscience. (d) Reconciliation; agreement after variance; harmony; concord. "The eternal love and pees." Chaucer.  Note: Peace is sometimes used as an exclamation in commanding silence, quiet, or order. "Peace! foolish woman." Shak. At peace, in a state of peace.  -- Breach of the peace. See under Breach.  -- Justice of the peace. See under Justice.  -- Peace of God. (Law) (a) A term used in wills, indictments, etc., as denoting a state of peace and good conduct. (b) (Theol.) The peace of heart which is the gift of God.  -- Peace offering. (a) (Jewish Antiq.) A voluntary offering to God in token of devout homage and of a sense of friendly communion with Him. (b) A gift or service offered as satisfaction to an offended person.  -- Peace officer, a civil officer whose duty it is to preserve the public peace, to prevent riots, etc., as a sheriff or constable.  -- To hold one's peace, to be silent; to refrain from speaking.  -- To make one's peace with, to reconcile one with, to plead one's cause with, or to become reconciled with, another. "I will make your peace with him." Shak. 

PEACE:  To make or become quiet; to be silent; to stop. [R.] "Peace your tattlings." Shak. When the thunder would not peace at my bidding. Shak. 

PEACEABLE:  Begin in or at peace; tranquil; quiet; free from, or not disposed to, war, disorder, or excitement; not quarrelsome.  -- Peace"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Peace"a*bly, adv.  Syn.  -- Peaceful; pacific; tranquil; quiet; mild; undisturbed; serene; still.  -- Peaceable, Peaceful. Peaceable describes the state of an individual, nation, etc., in reference to external hostility, attack, etc.; peaceful, in respect to internal disturbance. The former denotes "in the spirit of peace;" latter; "in the possession or enjoyment of peace." A peaceable adjustment of difficulties; a peaceful life, scene. 

PEACEBREAKER:  One who disturbs the public peace.  -- Peace"break`ing, n. 

PEACELESS:  Without peace; disturbed. Sandys. 

PEACEMAKER:  One who makes peace by reconciling parties that are at variance. Matt. v. 9. --Peace"mak`ing, n. 

PEACH:  To accuse of crime; to inform against. [Obs.] Foxe. 

PEACH:  To turn informer; to betray one's accomplice. [Obs. or Colloq.] If I be ta'en, I'll peach for this. Shak. 

PEACH:  A well-known high-flavored juicy fruit, containing one or two seeds in a hard almond-like endocarp or stone; also, the tree which bears it (Prunus, or Amygdalus Persica). In the wild stock the fruit is hard and inedible. Guinea, or Sierra Leone, peach, the large edible berry of the Sarcocephalus esculentus, a rubiaceous climbing shrub of west tropical Africa.  -- Palm peach, the fruit of a Venezuelan palm tree (Bactris speciosa).  -- Peach color, the pale red color of the peach blossom.  -- Peach-tree borer (Zoöl.), the larva of a clearwing moth (Ægeria, or Sannina, exitiosa) of the family Ægeriidæ, which is very destructive to peach trees by boring in the wood, usually near the ground; also, the moth itself. See Illust. under Borer. 

PEACHBLOW:  Of the delicate purplish pink color likened to that of peach blooms; -- applied esp. to a Chinese porcelain, small specimens of which bring great prices in the Western countries.  PEACH-COLORED Peach"-col`ored, a.  Of the color of a peach blossom. "Peach-colored satin." Shak. 

PEACHER:  One who peaches. [Low] Foxe. 

PEACHICK:  The chicken of the peacock. 

PEACHY:  Resembling a peach or peaches. 

PEACOCK:  The male of any pheasant of the genus Pavo, of which at least two species are known, native of Southern Asia and the East Indies.  Note: The upper tail coverts, which are long and capable of erection, are each marked with a black spot bordered by concentric bands of brilliant blue, green, and golden colors. The common domesticated species is Pavo cristatus. The Javan peacock (P. muticus) is more brilliantly colored than the common species.  2. In common usage, the species in general or collectively; a peafowl. Peacock butterfly (Zoöl.), a handsome European butterfly (Hamadryas Io) having ocelli like those of peacock.  -- Peacock fish (Zoöl.), the European blue-striped wrasse (Labrus variegatus); -- so called on account of its brilliant colors. Called also cook wrasse and cook.  -- Peacock pheasant (Zoöl.), any one of several species of handsome Asiatic pheasants of the genus Polyplectron. They resemble the peacock in color.  PEACOCK THRONE Pea"cock` Throne.  1. A famous throne formerly of the kings of Delhi, India, but since 1739, when it was carried off by Nadir Shah, held by the shahs of Persia (later Iran); -- so called from its bearing a fully expanded peacock's tail done in gems. 

PEAFOWL:  The peacock or peahen; any species of Pavo. 

PEAG:  A kind of aboriginal shell money, or wampum, of the Atlantic coast of the United States; -- originally applied only to polished white cylindrical beads. 

PEAGE:  See Paage. 

PEAGRIT:  A coarse pisolitic limestone. See Pisolite. 

PEAHEN:  The hen or female peafowl.  PEA-JACKET Pea"-jack`et, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. D. pij, pije, a coat of a coarse woolen stuff.]  A thick loose woolen jacket, or coat, much worn by sailors in cold weather. 

PEAK:  To pry; to peep slyly. Shak. Peak arch (Arch.), a pointed or Gothic arch. 

PEAK:  To raise to a position perpendicular, or more nearly so; as, to peak oars, to hold them upright; to peak a gaff or yard, to set it nearer the perpendicular. 

PEAKED:  Sickly; not robust. [Colloq.] 

PEAL:  A small salmon; a grilse; a sewin. [Prov. Eng.] 

PEAL:  To appeal. [Obs.] Spencer. 

PEAN:  One of the furs, the ground being sable, and the spots or tufts or. 

PEAN:  A song of praise and triumph. See Pæan. 

PEANISM:  The song or shout of praise, of battle, or of triumph. [R.] 

PEANUT:  The fruit of a trailing leguminous plant (Arachis hypogæa); also, the plant itself, which is widely cultivated for its fruit.  Note: The fruit is a hard pod, usually containing two or three seeds, sometimes but one, which ripen beneath the soil. Called also earthnut, groundnut, and goober.  PEANUT BUTTER Pea"nut but"ter.  A paste made by mixing ground fresh roasted peanuts with a small quantity of water or oil, and used chiefly as a relish on sandwiches, etc. 

PEAR:  The fleshy pome, or fruit, of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus communis), cultivated in many varieties in temperate climates; also, the tree which bears this fruit. See Pear family, below. Pear blight. (a) (Bot.) A name of two distinct diseases of pear trees, both causing a destruction of the branches, viz., that caused by a minute insect (Xyleborus pyri), and that caused by the freezing of the sap in winter. A. J. Downing. (b) (Zoöl.) A very small beetle (Xyleborus pyri) whose larvæ bore in the twigs of pear trees and cause them to wither.  -- Pear family (Bot.), a suborder of rosaceous plants (Pomeæ), characterized by the calyx tube becoming fleshy in fruit, and, combined with the ovaries, forming a pome. It includes the apple, pear, quince, service berry, and hewthorn.  -- Pear gauge (Physics), a kind of gauge for measuring the exhaustion of an air-pump receiver; -- so called because consisting in part of a pear-shaped glass vessel. Pear shell (Zoöl.), any marine gastropod shell of the genus Pyrula, native of tropical seas; -- so called from the shape.  -- Pear slug (Zoöl.), the larva of a sawfly which is very injurious to the foliage of the pear tree. 

PEARCH:  See Perch. 

PEARL:  A fringe or border. [Obs.] -- v. t.  To fringe; to border. [Obs.] See Purl. Pearl stitch. See Purl stitch, under Purl. 

PEARL:  A shelly concretion, usually rounded, and having a brilliant luster, with varying tints, found in the mantle, or between the mantle and shell, of certain bivalve mollusks, especially in the pearl oysters and river mussels, and sometimes in certain univalves. It is usually due to a secretion of shelly substance around some irritating foreign particle. Its substance is the same as nacre, or mother-of-pearl. Pearls which are round, or nearly round, and of fine luster, are highly esteemed as jewels, and compare in value with the precious stones.  2. Hence, figuratively, something resembling a pearl; something very precious. I see thee compassed with thy kingdom's pearl. Shak. And those pearls of dew she wears. Milton.  3. Nacre, or mother-of-pearl.  4. (Zoöl.)  A fish allied to the turbot; the brill.  5. (Zoöl.)  A light-colored tern.  6. (Zoöl.)  One of the circle of tubercles which form the bur on a deer's antler.  7. A whitish speck or film on the eye. [Obs.] Milton.  8. A capsule of gelatin or similar substance containing some liquid for medicinal application, as ether.  9. (Print.)  A size of type, between agate and diamond. * This line is printed in the type called pearl. Ground pearl. (Zoöl.) See under Ground.  -- Pearl barley, kernels of barley, ground so as to form small, round grains.  -- Pearl diver, one who dives for pearl oysters.  -- Pearl edge, an edge of small loops on the side of some kinds of ribbon; also, a narrow kind of thread edging to be sewed on lace.  -- Pearl eye, cataract. [R.] -- Pearl gray, a very pale and delicate blue-gray color.  -- Pearl millet, Egyptian millet (Penicillaria spicata).  -- Pearl moss. See Carrageen.  -- Pearl moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus Margaritia; -- so called on account of its pearly color.  -- Pearl oyster (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large tropical marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Meleagrina, or Margaritifera, found in the East Indies (especially at Ceylon), in the Persian Gulf, on the coast of Australia, and on the Pacific coast of America. Called also pearl shell, and pearl mussel.  -- Pearl powder. See Pearl white, below.  -- Pearl sago, sago in the form of small pearly grains.  -- Pearl sinter (Min.), fiorite.  -- Pearl spar (Min.), a crystallized variety of dolomite, having a pearly luster.  -- Pearl white. (a) Basic bismuth nitrate, or bismuth subchloride; - - used chiefly as a cosmetic. (b) A variety of white lead blued with indigo or Berlin blue. 

PEARL:  Of or pertaining to pearl or pearls; made of pearls, or of mother-of-pearl. 

PEARLACEOUS:  Resembling pearl or mother-of-pearl; pearly in quality or appearance. 

PEARLASH:  A white amorphous or granular substance which consists principally of potassium carbonate, and has a strong alkaline reaction. It is obtained by lixiviating wood ashes, and evaporating the lye, and has been an important source of potassium compounds. It is used in making soap, glass, etc.  PEARL-EYED Pearl"-eyed`, a.  Having a pearly speck in the eye; afflicted with the cataract. 

PEARLFISH:  Any fish whose scales yield a pearl-like pigment used in manufacturing artificial pearls, as the bleak, and whitebait.  PEARLINS; PEARLINGS Pearl"ins, Pearl"ings, n. pl. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of purflings. See Purfle.]  A kind of lace of silk or thread. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.  PEARLITE; PEARLSTONE Pearl"ite, Pearl"stone`, n. (Min.)  A glassy volcanic rock of a grayish color and pearly luster, often having a spherulitic concretionary structure due to the curved cracks produced by contraction in cooling. See Illust. under Perlitic. 

PEARLWORT:  A name given to several species of Sagina, low and inconspicuous herbs of the Chickweed family. 

PEARMAIN:  The name of several kinds of apples; as, the blue pearmain, winter pearmain, and red pearmain.  PEAR-SHAPED Pear"-shaped`, a.  Of the form of a pear. 

PEART:  Active; lively; brisk; smart; -- often applied to convalescents; as, she is quite peart to-day. [O. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] There was a tricksy girl, I wot, albeit clad in gray, As peart as bird, as straight as bolt, as fresh as flowers in May. Warner (1592). 

PEASANT:  A countryman; a rustic; especially, one of the lowest class of tillers of the soil in European countries.  Syn.  -- Countryman; rustic; swain; hind. 

PEASANT:  Rustic, rural. Spenser. 

PEASANTLIKE:  Rude; clownish; illiterate. 

PEASANTLY:  Peasantlike. [Obs.] Milton. 

PEASCOD:  The legume or pericarp, or the pod, of the pea. 

PEASTONE:  Pisolite. 

PEAT:  A small person; a pet; -- sometimes used contemptuously. [Obs.] Shak. 

PEAT:  A substance of vegetable origin, consisting of roots and fibers, moss, etc., in various stages of decomposition, and found, as a kind of turf or bog, usually in low situations, where it is always more or less saturated with water. It is often dried and used for fuel. Peat bog, a bog containing peat; also, peat as it occurs in such places; peat moss.  -- Peat moss. (a) The plants which, when decomposed, become peat. (b) A fen producing peat. (c) (Bot.) Moss of the genus Sphagnum, which often grows abundantly in boggy or peaty places.  -- Peat reek, the reek or smoke of peat; hence, also, the peculiar flavor given to whisky by being distilled with peat as fuel. [Scot.] 

PEATY:  Composed of peat; abounding in peat; resembling peat.  PEAVEY; PEAVY Pea"vey Pea"vy, n. [Said to be from the inventor's name.] (Lumbering)  A cant hook having the end of its lever armed with a spike. 

PEBA:  An armadillo (Tatusia novemcincta) which is found from Texas to Paraguay; -- called also tatouhou. 

PEBBLE:  To grain (leather) so as to produce a surface covered with small rounded prominences. 

PEBBLED:  Abounding in pebbles. Thomson. 

PEBBLESTONE:  A pebble; also, pebbles collectively. "Chains of pebblestone." Marlowe. 

PEBBLY:  Full of pebbles; pebbled. "A hard, pebbly bottom." Johnson. 

PEBRINE:  An epidemic disease of the silkworm, characterized by the presence of minute vibratory corpuscles in the blood. 

PECAN:  A species of hickory (Carya olivæformis), growing in North America, chiefly in the Mississippi valley and in Texas, where it is one of the largest of forest trees; also, its fruit, a smooth, oblong nut, an inch or an inch and a half long, with a thin shell and well- flavored meat. [Written also pacane.] 

PECARY:  See Peccary. 

PECCABILITY:  The state or quality of being peccable; lability to sin. The common peccability of mankind. Dr. H. More. 

PECCABLE:  Liable to sin; subject to transgress the divine law. "A frail and peccable mortal." Sir W. Scott. 

PECCADILLO:  A slight trespass or offense; a petty crime or fault. Sir W. Scott. 

PECCANT:  An offender. [Obs.] Whitlock. 

PECCANTLY:  In a peccant manner. 

PECCARY:  A pachyderm of the genus Dicotyles.  Note: The collared peccary, or tajacu (Dicotyles torquatus), is about the size and shape of a small hog, and has a white ring aroung the neck. It ranges from Arkansas to Brazil. A larger species (D. labiatus), with white cheeks, is found in South America. 

PECCAVI:  I have sinned; -- used colloquially to express confession or acknowledgment of an offense. Aubrey. 

PECCO:  See Pekoe. 

PECK:  A quick, sharp stroke, as with the beak of a bird or a pointed instrument. 

PECKISH:  Inclined to eat; hungry. [Colloq.] "When shall I feel peckish again" Beaconsfield. 

PECKLED:  Speckled; spotted. [Obs.] 

PECOPTERIS:  An extensive genus of fossil ferns; -- so named from the regular comblike arrangement of the leaflets. 

PECORA:  An extensive division of ruminants, including the antelopes, deer, and cattle. 

PECTATE:  A salt of pectic acid. 

PECTEN:  Any species of bivalve mollusks of the genus Pecten, and numerous allied genera (family Pectinidæ); a scallop. See Scallop.  3. (Zoöl.)  The comb of a scorpion. See Comb, 4 (b). 

PECTIC:  Of or pertaining to pectin; specifically, designating an acid obtained from ordinary vegetable jelly (pectin) as an amorphous substance, tough and horny when dry, but gelatinous when moist. 

PECTIN:  One of a series of carbohydrates, commonly called vegetable jelly, found very widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, especially in ripe fleshy fruits, as apples, cranberries, etc. It is extracted as variously colored, translucent substances, which are soluble in hot water but become viscous on cooling. 

PECTINAL:  Of or pertaining to a comb; resembling a comb. 

PECTINAL:  A fish whose bone Sir T. Browne.  PECTINATE; PECTINATED Pec"ti*na`te, Pec"ti*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. pectinatus, p.pr. of pectinare to comb, from pecten, -inis, a comb; cf. Gr. feax hair, OHG. fahs, E. paxwax.]  1. Resembling the teeth of a comb.  2. (Nat. Hist.)  Having very narrow, close divisions, in arrangement and regularity resembling those of a comb; comblike; as, a pectinate leaf; pectinated muscles. See Illust. (e) of Antennæ.  3. Interlaced, like two combs. [R.] "Our fingers pectinated, or shut together." Sir T. Browne. Pectinate claw (Zoöl.), a claw having a serrate edge, found in some birds, and supposed to be used in cleaning the feathers. 

PECTINATELY:  In a pectinate manner. 

PECTINATION:  Comblike toothing. 

PECTINIBRANCH:  One of the Pectinibranchiata. Also used adjectively. 

PECTINIBRANCHIATA:  A division of Gastropoda, including those that have a comblike gill upon the neck. 

PECTINIBRANCHIATE:  Having pectinated gills. 

PECTINIFORM:  Comblike in form. 

PECTIZE:  To congeal; to change into a gelatinous mass. [R.] H. Spencer. 

PECTOLITE:  A whitish mineral occurring in radiated or fibrous crystalline masses. It is a hydrous silicate of lime and soda. 

PECTORAL:  Having the breast conspicuously colored; as, the pectoral sandpiper. Pectoral arch, or Pectoral girdle (Anat.), the two or more bony or cartilaginous pieces of the vertebrate skeleton to which the fore limbs are articulated; the shoulder girdle. In man it consists of two bones, the scapula and clavicle, on each side.  -- Pectorial cross (Eccl.), a cross worn on the breast by bishops and abbots, and sometimes also by canons.  -- Pectorial fins, or Pectorials (Zoöl.), fins situated on the sides, behind the gills. See Illust. under Fin.  -- Pectorial rail. (Zoöl.) See Land rail (b) under Land.  -- Pectorial sandpiper (Zoöl.), the jacksnipe (b). 

PECTORALLY:  As connected with the breast. 

PECTORILOQUIAL:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, pectoriloquy. 

PECTORILOQUISM:  Pectoriloquy. 

PECTORILOQUOUS:  Pectoriloquial. 

PECTORILOQUY:  The distinct articulation of the sounds of a patient's voice, heard on applying the ear to the chest in auscultation. It usually indicates some morbid change in the lungs or pleural cavity. 

PECTOSE:  An amorphous carbohydrate found in the vegetable kingdom, esp. in unripe fruits. It is associated with cellulose, and is converted into substances of the pectin group. 

PECTOSIC:  Of, pertaining to, resembling, or derived from, pectose; specifically, designating an acid supposed to constitute largely ordinary pectin or vegetable jelly. 

PECTOSTRACA:  A degenerate order of Crustacea, including the Rhizocephala and Cirripedia. 

PECTOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, pectose. 

PECTUS:  The breast of a bird. 

PECUL:  See Picul. 

PECULATE:  To appropriate to one's own use the property of the public; to steal public moneys intrusted to one's care; to embezzle. An oppressive, . . . rapacious, and peculating despotism. Burke. 

PECULATION:  The act or practice of peculating, or of defrauding the public by appropriating to one's own use the money or goods intrusted to one's care for management or disbursement; embezzlement. Every British subject . . . active in the discovery of peculations has been ruined. Burke. 

PECULATOR:  One who peculates. "Peculators of the public gold." Cowper. 

PECULIAR:  A particular parish or church which is exempt from the jurisdiction of the ordinary. Court of Peculiars (Eng. Law), a branch of the Court of Arches having cognizance of the affairs of peculiars. Blackstone.  -- Dean of peculiars. See under Dean, 1. 

PECULIARIZE:  To make peculiar; to set appart or assign, as an exclusive possession. [R.] Dr. John Smith. 

PECULIARLY:  In a peculiar manner; particulary; in a rare and striking degree; unusually. 

PECULIARNESS:  The quality or state of being peculiar; peculiarity. Mede. 

PECULIUM:  The saving of a son or a slave with the father's or master's consent; a little property or stock of one's own; any exclusive personal or separate property. Burrill.  2. A special fund for private and personal uses. A slight peculium only subtracted to supply his snuff box and tobacco pouch. Sir W. Scott. 

PECUNIAL:  Pecuniary. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PECUNIARILY:  In a pecuniary manner; as regards money. 

PECUNIOUS:  Abounding in money; wealthy; rich. [Obs.] Sherwood. 

PED:  A basket; a hammer; a pannier. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

PEDAGE:  A toll or tax paid by passengers, entitling them to safe- conduct and protection. [Obs.] Spelman. 

PEDAGOG:  Pedagogue. 

PEDAGOGIC:  See Pedagogics.  PEDAGOGIC; PEDAGOGICAL Ped`a*gog"ic, Ped`a*gog"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. pédagogique. See Pedagogue.]  Of or pertaining to a pedagogue; suited to, or characteristic of, a pedagogue. 

PEDAGOGICS:  The science or art of teaching; the principles and rules of teaching; pedagogy. 

PEDAGOGISM:  The system, occupation, character, or manner of pedagogues. Milton. Avocation of pedantry and pedagogism. De Foe. 

PEDAGOGUE:  A slave who led his master's children to school, and had the charge of them generally.  2. A teacher of children; one whose occupation is to teach the young; a schoolmaster.  3. One who by teaching has become formal, positive, or pedantic in his ways; one who has the manner of a schoolmaster; a pedant. Goldsmith. 

PEDAGOGUE:  To play the pedagogue toward. [Obs.] Prior. 

PEDAGOGY:  Pedagogics; pedagogism. South. 

PEDAL:  Of or pertaining to a pedal; having pedals. Pedal curve or surface (Geom.), the curve or surface which is the locus of the feet of perpendiculars let fall from a fixed point upon the straight lines tangent to a given curve, or upon the planes tangent to a given surface.  -- Pedal note (Mus.), the note which is held or sustained through an organ point. See Organ point, under Organ.  -- Pedal organ (Mus.), an organ which has pedals or a range of keys moved by the feet; that portion of a full organ which is played with the feet. 

PEDAL:  A lever or key acted on by the foot, as in the pianoforte to raise the dampers, or in the organ to open and close certain pipes; a treadle, as in a lathe or a bicycle.  2. (Geom.)  A pedal curve or surface. 

PEDALIAN:  Relating to the foot, or to a metrical foot; pedal. [R.] Maunder. 

PEDALITY:  The act of measuring by paces. [R.] Ash. 

PEDANEOUS:  Going on foot; pedestrian. [R.] 

PEDANT:  Of or pertaining to a pedant; characteristic of, or resembling, a pedant; ostentatious of learning; as, a pedantic writer; a pedantic description; a pedantical affectation. "Figures pedantical." Shak. 

PEDANTICALLY:  In a pedantic manner. 

PEDANTICLY:  Pedantically. [R.] 

PEDANTISM:  The office, disposition, or act of a pedant; pedantry. [Obs.] 

PEDANTIZE:  To play the pedant; to use pedantic expressions. [R.] 

PEDANTOCRACY:  The sway of pedants. [R.] J. S. Mill. 

PEDANTRY:  The act, character, or manners of a pedant; vain ostentation of learning. "This pedantry of quotation." Cowley. 'T is a practice that savors much of pedantry. Sir T. Browne. 

PEDANTY:  An assembly or clique of pedants. [Obs.] Milton. 

PEDARIAN:  One of a class eligible to the office of senator, but not yet chosen, who could sit and speak in the senate, but could not vote; -- so called because he might indicate his opinion by walking over to the side of the party he favored when a vote was taken. 

PEDARY:  A sandal. [Obs.] Latimer. 

PEDATA:  An order of holothurians, including those that have ambulacral suckers, or feet, and an internal gill. 

PEDATE:  Palmate, with the lateral lobes cleft into two or more segments; -- said of a leaf.  -- Ped"ate*ly, adv. 

PEDATIFID:  Cleft in a pedate manner, but having the lobes distinctly connected at the base; -- said of a leaf. 

PEDDLE:  To sell from place to place; to retail by carrying around from customer to customer; to hawk; hence, to retail in very small quantities; as, to peddle vegetables or tinware. 

PEDDLER:  One who peddles; a traveling trader; one who travels about, retailing small wares; a hawker. [Written also pedlar and pedler.] "Some vagabond huckster or peddler." Hakluyt. 

PEDERAST:  One guilty of pederasty; a sodomite. 

PEDERASTIC:  Of or pertaining to pederasty. 

PEDERASTY:  The crime against nature; sodomy. 

PEDERERO:  A term formerly applied to a short piece of chambered ordnance. [Written also paterero and peterero.] 

PEDESIS:  Same as Brownian movement, under Brownian. 

PEDESTAL:  The base or foot of a column, statue, vase, lamp, or the like; the part on which an upright work stands. It consists of three parts, the base, the die or dado, and the cornice or surbase molding. See Illust. of Column. Build him a pedestal, and say, "Stand there!" Cowper.  2. (a) (Railroad Cars) A casting secured to the frame of a truck and forming a jaw for holding a journal box. (b) (Mach.) A pillow block; a low housing. (c) (Bridge Building) An iron socket, or support, for the foot of a brace at the end of a truss where it rests on a pier. Pedestal coil (steam Heating), a group of connected straight pipes arranged side by side and one above another, -- used in a radiator. 

PEDESTALED:  Placed on, or supported by, a pedestal; figuratively, exalted. Hawthorne. Pedestaled haply in a palace court. Keats. 

PEDESTRIAL:  Of or pertaining to the feet; employing the foot or feet. 

PEDESTRIALLY:  In a pedestrial manner. 

PEDESTRIAN:  Going on foot; performed on foot; as, a pedestrian journey. 

PEDESTRIAN:  A walker; one who journeys on foot; a foot traveler; specif., a professional walker or runner. 

PEDESTRIANISM:  The act, art, or practice of a pedestrian; walking or running; traveling or racing on foot. 

PEDESTRIANIZE:  To practice walking; to travel on foot. 

PEDESTRIOUS:  Going on foot; not winged. [Obs.] "Pedestrious animals." Sir T. Browne. 

PEDETENTOUS:  Proceeding step by step; advancing cautiously. [R.] That pedetentous pace and pedetentous mind in which it behooves the wise and virtuous improver to walk. Sydney Smith.  PEDI-; PEDO- Ped"i-, Ped"o-. Etym: [See Foot.]  Combining forms from L. pes, pedis, foot, as pedipalp, pedireme, pedometer. 

PEDIAL:  Pertaining to the foot, or to any organ called a foot; pedal. Dana. 

PEDIATRIC:  Pertaining to the care and medical treatment of children. [Webster 1913 Suppl.] 

PEDIATRICS:  That branch of medical science which treats of the hygiene and diseases of children. 

PEDICEL:  A slender stem by which certain of the lower animals or their eggs are attached. See Illust. of Aphis lion.  3. (Anat.) (a) The ventral part of each side of the neural arch connecting with the centrum of a vertebra. (b) An outgrowth of the frontal bones, which supports the antlers or horns in deer and allied animals. 

PEDICELED:  Pedicellate. 

PEDICELLARIA:  A peculiar forcepslike organ which occurs in large numbers upon starfishes and echini. Those of starfishes have two movable jaws, or blades, and are usually nearly, or quite, sessile; those of echini usually have three jaws and a pedicel. See Illustration in Appendix. 

PEDICELLATE:  Having a pedicel; supported by a pedicel. 

PEDICELLINA:  A genus of Bryozoa, of the order Entoprocta, having a bell- shaped body supported on a slender pedicel. See Illust. under Entoprocta. 

PEDICLE:  Same as Pedicel. 

PEDICULAR:  Of or pertaining to lice; having the lousy distemper (phthiriasis); lousy. Southey. 

PEDICULATE:  Of or pertaining to the Pediculati. 

PEDICULATI:  An order of fishes including the anglers. See Illust. of Angler and Batfish. 

PEDICULATION:  Phthiriasis. 

PEDICULE:  A pedicel. 

PEDICULINA:  A division of parasitic hemipterous insects, including the true lice. See Illust. in Appendix. 

PEDICULOUS:  Pedicular. 

PEDICULUS:  A genus of wingless parasitic Hemiptera, including the common lice of man. See Louse. 

PEDIFORM:  Shaped like a foot. 

PEDIGEROUS:  Bearing or having feet or legs. 

PEDIGREE:  A record of the lineage or strain of an animal, as of a horse.  PEDIGREE CLAUSE Ped"i*gree clause.  A clause sometimes inserted in contracts or specifications, requiring that a material of construction, as cement, must be of a brand that has stood the test of a specified number of years' use in an important public work. [Cant, U. S.] 

PEDILUVY:  The bathing of the feet, a bath for the feet. [Obs.] 

PEDIMANA:  A division of marsupials, including the opossums. 

PEDIMANE:  A pedimanous marsupial; an opossum. 

PEDIMANOUS:  Having feet resembling hands, or with the first toe opposable, as the opossums and monkeys. 

PEDIMENT:  Originally, in classical architecture, the triangular space forming the gable of a simple roof; hence, a similar form used as a decoration over porticoes, doors, windows, etc.; also, a rounded or broken frontal having a similar position and use. See Temple. 

PEDIMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to a pediment. 

PEDIPALP:  One of the Pedipalpi. 

PEDIPALPI:  A division of Arachnida, including the whip scorpions (Thelyphonus) and allied forms. Sometimes used in a wider sense to include also the true scorpions. 

PEDIPALPOUS:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the pedipalps. 

PEDIPALPUS:  One of the second pair of mouth organs of arachnids. In some they are leglike, but in others, as the scorpion, they terminate in a claw. 

PEDIREME:  A crustacean, some of whose feet serve as oars.  PEDLAR; PEDLER Ped"lar, Ped"ler, n.  See Peddler. 

PEDOBAPTISM:  The baptism of infants or of small children. [Written also pædobaptism.] 

PEDOBAPTIST:  One who advocates or practices infant baptism. [Written also pædobaptist.] 

PEDOGRAPH:  An instrument carried by a pedestrian for automatically making a topographical record of the ground covered during a journey. 

PEDOLOGY:  Pediatrics. 

PEDOMANCY:  Divination by examining the soles of the feet. 

PEDOMETER:  An instrument for including the number of steps in walking, and so ascertaining the distance passed over. It is usually in the form of a watch; an oscillating weight by the motion of the body causes the index to advance a certain distance at each step.  PEDOMETRIC; PEDOMETRICAL Ped`o*met"ric, Ped`o*met"ric*al, a.  Pertaining to, or measured by, a pedometer. 

PEDOMOTIVE:  Moved or worked by the action of the foot or feet on a pedal or treadle. 

PEDOTROPHY:  The art of nourishing children properly. 

PEDREGAL:  A lava field. [Mexico & Western U.S.] 

PEDUNCLE:  The stem or stalk that supports the flower or fruit of a plant, or a cluster of flowers or fruits.  Note: The ultimate divisions or branches of a peduncle are called pedicels. In the case of a solitary flower, the stalk would be called a peduncle if the flower is large, and a pedicel if it is small or delicate.  2. (Zoöl.)  A sort of stem by which certain shells and barnacles are attached to other objects. See Illust. of Barnacle.  3. (Anat.)  A band of nervous or fibrous matter connecting different parts of the brain; as, the peduncles of the cerebellum; the peduncles of the pineal gland. 

PEDUNCLED:  Having a peduncle; supported on a peduncle; pedunculate. 

PEDUNCULAR:  Of or pertaining to a peduncle; growing from a peduncle; as, a peduncular tendril. 

PEDUNCULATA:  A division of Cirripedia, including the stalked or goose barnacles.  PEDUNCULATE; PEDUNCULATED Pe*dun"cu*late, Pe*dun"cu*la`ted, a. (Biol.)  Having a peduncle; growing on a peduncle; as, a pedunculate flower; a pedunculate eye, as in a lobster. 

PEE:  See 1st Pea. 

PEE:  Bill of an anchor. See Peak, 3 (c). 

PEECE:  See Piece. 

PEECHI:  The dauw. 

PEEK:  To look slyly, or with the eyes half closed, or through a crevice; to peep. [Colloq.] 

PEEKABOO:  A child's game; bopeep. 

PEEL:  A small tower, fort, or castle; a keep. [Scot.] 

PEEL:  A spadelike implement, variously used, as for removing loaves of bread from a baker's oven; also, a T-shaped implement used by printers and bookbinders for hanging wet sheets of paper on lines or poles to dry. Also, the blade of an oar. 

PEEL:  To plunder; to pillage; to rob. [Obs.] But govern ill the nations under yoke, Peeling their provinces. Milton. 

PEEL:  To lose the skin, bark, or rind; to come off, as the skin, bark, or rind does; -- often used with an adverb; as, the bark peels easily or readily. 

PEEL:  The skin or rind; as, the peel of an orange. 

PEELE:  A graceful and swift South African antelope (Pelea capreola). The hair is woolly, and ash-gray on the back and sides. The horns are black, long, slender, straight, nearly smooth, and very sharp. Called also rheeboc, and rehboc. 

PEELER:  One who peels or strips. 

PEELER:  A pillager. 

PEELER:  A nickname for a policeman; -- so called from Sir Robert Peel. [British Slang] See Bobby. 

PEELHOUSE:  See 1st Peel. Sir W. Scott. 

PEEN:  To draw, bend, or straighten, as metal, by blows with the peen of a hammer or sledge. 

PEENGE:  To complain. [Scot.] 

PEEPHOLE:  A hole, or crevice, through which one may peep without being discovered.  PEEPING HOLE Peep"ing hole`.  See Peephole.  PEEP SIGHT Peep sight.  An adjustable piece, pierced with a small hole to peep through in aiming, attached to a rifle or other firearm near the breech; -- distinguished from an open sight.  PEEPUL TREE Pee"pul tree`. Etym: [Hind. pipal, Skr. pippala.] (Bot.)  A sacred tree (Ficus religiosa) of the Buddhists, a kind of fig tree which attains great size and venerable age. See Bo tree. [Written also pippul tree, and pipal tree.] 

PEER:  To look narrowly or curiously or intently; to peep; as, the peering day. Milton. Peering in maps for ports, and piers, and roads. Shak. As if through a dungeon grate he peered. Coleridge. 

PEER:  To make equal in rank. [R.] Heylin. 

PEER:  To be, or to assume to be, equal. [R.] 

PEERDOM:  Peerage; also, a lordship. [Obs.] 

PEERESS:  The wife of a peer; a woman ennobled in her own right, or by right of marriage.  PEERIE; PEERY Peer"ie, Peer"y, a. Etym: [See 1st Peer, 2.]  Inquisitive; suspicious; sharp. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] "Two peery gray eyes." Sir W. Scott. 

PEERLESS:  Having no peer or equal; matchless; superlative. "Her peerless feature." Shak. Unvailed her peerless light. Milton. --Peer"less*ly, adv.  -- Peer"less*ness, n. 

PEERT:  Same as Peart. 

PEERWEET:  Same as Pewit (a & b). 

PEEVISHLY:  In a peevish manner. Shak. 

PEEVISHNESS:  The quality of being peevish; disposition to murmur; sourness of temper.  Syn.  -- See Petulance.  PEEVIT; PEEWIT Pee"vit, Pee"wit, n. (Zoöl.)  See Pewit. 

PEG:  To score with a peg, as points in the game; as, she pegged twelwe points. [Colloq.] 

PEG:  To work diligently, as one who pegs shoes; -- usually with on, at, or away; as, to peg away at a task. 

PEGADOR:  A species of remora (Echeneis naucrates). See Remora. 

PEGASEAN:  Of or pertaining to Pegasus, or, figuratively, to poetry. 

PEGASOID:  Like or pertaining to Pegasus. 

PEGASUS:  A winged horse fabled to have sprung from the body of Medusa when she was slain. He is noted for causing, with a blow of his hoof, Hippocrene, the inspiring fountain of the Muses, to spring from Mount Helicon. On this account he is, in modern times, associated with the Muses, and with ideas of poetic inspiration. Each spurs his jaded Pegasus apace. Byron.  2. (Astron.)  A northen constellation near the vernal equinoctial point. Its three brightest stars, with the brightest star of Andromeda, form the square of Pegasus.  3. (Zoöl.)  A genus of small fishes, having large pectoral fins, and the body covered with hard, bony plates. Several species are known from the East Indies and China. 

PEGGER:  One who fastens with pegs. 

PEGGING:  The act or process of fastening with pegs. 

PEGM:  A sort of moving machine employed in the old pageants. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

PEGMATITIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, pegmatite; as, the pegmatic structure of certain rocks resembling graphic granite. 

PEGMATOID:  Resembling pegmatite; pegmatic. 

PEGOMANCY:  Divination by fountains. [R.] 

PEGROOTS:  Same as Setterwort. 

PEHLEVI:  An ancient Persian dialect in which words were partly represented by their Semitic equivalents. It was in use from the 3d century (and perhaps earlier) to the middle of the 7th century, and later in religious writings. [Written also Pahlavi.] 

PEIGNOIR:  A woman's loose dressing sack; hence, a loose morning gown or wrapper. 

PEIN:  See Peen. 

PEIRAMETER:  A dynamometer for measuring the force required to draw wheel carriages on roads of different constructions. G. Francis. 

PEIRASTIC:  Fitted for trail or test; experimental; tentative; treating of attempts. 

PEISE:  A weight; a poise. [Obs.] "To weigh pence with a peise." Piers Plowman. 

PEISE:  To poise or weight. [Obs.] Chaucer. Lest leaden slumber peise me down. Shak. 

PEITREL:  See Peytrel. 

PEJORATIVE:  Implying or imputing evil; depreciatory; disparaging; unfavorable. 

PEKAN:  See Fisher, 2. 

PEKOE:  A kind of black tea. [Written also pecco.] 

PELA:  See Wax insect, under Wax. 

PELAGE:  The covering, or coat, of a mammal, whether of wool, fur, or hair. 

PELAGIAN:  Of or pertaining to the sea; marine; pelagic; as, pelagian shells. 

PELAGIAN:  A follower of Pelagius, a British monk, born in the later part of the 4th century, who denied the doctrines of hereditary sin, of the connection between sin and death, and of conversion through grace. 

PELAGIAN:  Of or pertaining to Pelagius, or to his doctrines. 

PELAGIANISM:  The doctrines of Pelagius. 

PELAGIC:  Of or pertaining to the ocean; -- applied especially to animals that live at the surface of the ocean, away from the coast. 

PELARGONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also nonoic acid) found in the leaves of the geranium (Pelargonium) and allied plants. 

PELARGONIUM:  A large genus of plants of the order Geraniaceæ, differing from Geranium in having a spurred calyx and an irregular corolla.  Note: About one hundred and seventy species are known, nearly all of them natives of South Africa, and many having very beautiful blossoms. See the Note under Geranium.  PELASGIAN; PELASGIC Pe*las"gi*an, Pe*las"gic, a. Etym: [L. Pelasgus, Gr.  1. Of or pertaining to the Pelasgians, an ancient people of Greece, of roving habits.  2. (Zoöl.)  Wandering. 

PELECAN:  See Pelican. 

PELECANIFORMES:  Those birds that are related to the pelican; the Totipalmi. 

PELECOID:  A figure, somewhat hatched-shaped, bounded by a semicircle and two inverted quadrants, and equal in area to the square ABCD inclosed by the chords of the four quadrants. [Written also pelicoid.] Math. Dict. 

PELECYPODA:  Same as Lamellibranchia. 

PELEGRINE:  See Peregrine. [Obs.] 

PELERINE:  A woman's cape; especially, a fur cape that is longer in front than behind.  PELE'S HAIR Pe"le's hair. [After a Hawaiian goddess associated with the crater Kilauea.]  Glass threads or fibers formed by the wind from bits blown from frothy lava or from the tips of lava jets or from bits of liquid lava thrown into the air. It often collects in thick masses resembling tow. 

PELF:  Money; riches; lucre; gain; -- generally conveying the idea of something ill-gotten or worthless. It has no plural. "Mucky pelf." Spenser. "Paltry pelf." Burke. Can their pelf prosper, not got by valor or industry Fuller. 

PELFISH:  Of or pertaining to pelf. Stanyhurst.  PELFRAY; PELFRY Pel"fray, Pel"fry, n.  Pelf; also, figuratively, rubbish; trash. [Obs.] Cranmer. 

PELICAN:  Any large webfooted bird of the genus of Pelecanus, of which about a dozen species are known. They have an enormous bill, to the lower edge of which is attached a pouch in which captured fishes are temporarily stored.  Note: The American white pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) and the brown species (P. fuscus) are abundant on the Florida coast in winter, but breed about the lakes in the Rocky Mountains and British America.  2. (Old Chem.)  A retort or still having a curved tube or tubes leading back from the head to the body for continuous condensation and redistillation.  Note: The principle is still employed in certain modern forms of distilling apparatus. Frigate pelican (Zoöl.), the frigate bird. See under Frigate.  -- Pelican fish (Zoöl.), deep-sea fish (Eurypharynx pelecanoides) of the order Lyomeri, remarkable for the enormous development of the jaws, which support a large gular pouch.  -- Pelican flower (Bot.), the very large and curiously shaped blossom of a climbing plant (Aristolochia grandiflora) of the West Indies; also, the plant itself.  -- Pelican ibis (Zoöl.), a large Asiatic wood ibis (Tantalus leucocephalus). The head and throat are destitute of feathers; the plumage is white, with the quills and the tail greenish black.  -- Pelican in her piety (in heraldry and symbolical art), a representation of a pelican in the act of wounding her breast in order to nourish her young with her blood; -- a practice fabulously attributed to the bird, on account of which it was adopted as a symbol of the Redeemer, and of charity.  -- Pelican's foot (Zoöl.), a marine gastropod shell of the genus Aporrhais, esp. Aporrhais pes-pelicani of Europe.  PELICAN STATE Pel"i*can State.  Louisiana; -- a nickname alluding to the device on its seal. 

PELICK:  The American coot (Fulica). 

PELICOID:  See Pelecoid. 

PELICOSAURIA:  A suborder of Theromorpha, including terrestrial reptiles from the Permian formation. 

PELIOM:  A variety of iolite, of a smoky blue color; pelioma. 

PELIOMA:  A livid ecchymosis.  2. (Min.)  See Peliom. 

PELISSE:  An outer garment for men or women, originally of fur, or lined with fur; a lady's outer garment, made of silk or other fabric. 

PELL:  To pelt; to knock about. [Obs.] Holland. 

PELLACK:  A porpoise. 

PELLAGE:  A customs duty on skins of leather. 

PELLAGRA:  An erythematous affection of the skin, with severe constitutional and nervous symptoms, endemic in Northern Italy. 

PELLAGRIN:  One who is afficted with pellagra. Chambers's Encyc. 

PELLAGROUS:  Pertaining to, or affected with, or attendant on, pellagra; as, pellagrous insanity. 

PELLET:  To form into small balls. [Obs.] Shak. 

PELLETED:  Made of, or like, pellets; furnished with pellets. [R.] "This pelleted storm." Shak. 

PELLIBRANCHIATA:  A division of Nudibranchiata, in which the mantle itself serves as a gill. 

PELLICLE:  A thin film formed on the surface of an evaporating solution. 

PELLICULAR:  Of or pertaining to a pellicle. Henslow. 

PELLILE:  The redshank; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] 

PELLITORY:  The common name of the several species of the genus Parietaria, low, harmless weeds of the Nettle family; -- also called wall pellitory, and lichwort.  Note: Parietaria officinalis is common on old walls in Europe; P.Pennsylvanica is found in the United States; and six or seven more species are found near the Mediterranean, or in the Orient. 

PELLITORY:  See Pall-mall. 

PELLMELL:  In utter confusion; with confused violence. "Men, horses, chariots, crowded pellmell." Milton. 

PELLUCID:  Transparent; clear; limpid; translucent; not opaque. "Pellucid crystal." Dr. H. More. "Pellucid streams." Wordsworth.  PELLUCIDITY; PELLUCIDNESS Pel`lu*cid"i*ty, Pel*lu"cid*ness, n. Etym: [L. pelluciditas.]  The quality or state of being pellucid; transparency; translucency; clearness; as, the pellucidity of the air. Locke. 

PELLUCIDLY:  In a pellucid manner. 

PELMA:  The under surface of the foot. 

PELOPIUM:  A supposed new metal found in columbite, afterwards shown to be identical with columbium, or niobium. 

PELOPONNESIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Peloponnesus, or southern peninsula of Greece.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of the Peloponnesus. 

PELORIA:  Abnormal regularity; the state of certain flowers, which, being naturally irregular, have become regular through a symmetrical repetition of the special irregularity. 

PELORIC:  Abnormally regular or symmetrical. Darwin. 

PELORUS:  An instrument similar to a mariner's compass, but without magnetic needles, and having two sight vanes by which bearings are taken, esp. such as cannot be taken by the compass. 

PELOTA:  A Basque, Spanish, and Spanish-American game played in a court, in which a ball is struck with a wickerwork racket. 

PELOTAGE:  Packs or bales of Spanish wool. 

PELT:  The body of any quarry killed by the hawk. Pelt rot, a disease affecting the hair or wool of a beast. 

PELT:  A blow or stroke from something thrown. 

PELTA:  A small shield, especially one of an approximately elliptic form, or crescent-shaped.  2. (Bot.)  A flat apothecium having no rim.  PELTATE; PELTATED Pel"tate, Pel"ta*ted, a. Etym: [Cf. F. pelté. See Pelta.]  Shield-shaped; scutiform; (Bot.) having the stem or support attached to the lower surface, instead of at the base or margin; -- said of a leaf or other organ.  -- Pel"tate*ly, adv. 

PELTER:  One who pelts. 

PELTER:  A pinchpenny; a mean, sordid person; a miser; a skinflint. [Obs.] "Let such pelters prate." Gascoigne.  PELTIER EFFECT Pel`tier" ef*fect". [After Jean C. A. Peltier, French physicist, the discoverer.] (Elec.)  The production or absorption of heat at the junction of two metals on the passage of a current. Heat generated by the passage of the current in one direction will be absorbed if the current is reversed.  PELTIER'S CROSS Pel`tier's" cross. (Elec.)  A cross formed of two strips of different metals, to illustrate the Peltier effect. 

PELTIFORM:  Shieldlike, with the outline nearly circular; peltate. Henslow. 

PELTING:  Mean; paltry. [Obs.] Shak.  PELTON WHEEL Pel"ton wheel. (Mech.)  A form of impulse turbine or water wheel, consisting of a row of double cup-shaped buckets arranged round the rim of a wheel and actuated by one or more jets of water playing into the cups at high velocity. 

PELTRY:  Pelts or skins, collectively; skins with the fur on them; furs. 

PELTRYWARE:  Peltry. [Obs.] 

PELUDO:  The South American hairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus). 

PELURE:  A crisp, hard, thin paper, sometimes used for postage stamps. 

PELUSIAC:  Of or pertaining to Pelusium, an ancient city of Egypt; as, the Pelusiac (or former eastern) outlet of the Nile. 

PELVIC:  Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pelvis; as, pelvic cellulitis. Pelvic arch, or Pelvic girdle (Anat.), the two or more bony or cartilaginous pieces of the vertebrate skeleton to which the hind limbs are articulated. When fully ossified, the arch usually consists of three principal bones on each side, the ilium, ischium, and pubis, which are often closely united in the adult, forming the innominate bone. See Innominate bone, under Innominate. 

PELVIMETER:  An instrument for measuring the dimensions of the pelvis. Coxe. 

PELVIMETRY:  The measurement of the pelvis. 

PELVIS:  The pelvic arch, or the pelvic arch together with the sacrum. See Pelvic arch, under Pelvic, and Sacrum.  2. (Zoöl.)  The calyx of a crinoid. Pelvis of the kidney (Anat.), the basinlike cavity into which the ureter expands as it joins the kidney.  PEMBROKE TABLE Pem"broke ta`ble. [From Pembroke, a town and shire in Wales.]  A style of four-legged table in vogue in England, chiefly in the later Georgian period.  The characteristic which gives a table the name of Pembroke consists in the drop leaves, which are held up, when the table is open, by brackets which turn under the top. F. C. Morse. 

PEMPHIGUS:  A somewhat rare skin disease, characterized by the development of blebs upon different part of the body. Quain. 

PEN:  The internal shell of a squid.  6. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)  A female swan. [Prov. Eng.] Bow pen. See Bow-pen.  -- Dotting pen, a pen for drawing dotted lines.  -- Drawing, or Ruling, pen, a pen for ruling lines having a pair of blades between which the ink is contained.  -- Fountain pen, Geometric pen. See under Fountain, and Geometric.  -- Music pen, a pen having five points for drawing the five lines of the staff.  -- Pen and ink, or pen-and-ink, executed or done with a pen and ink; as, a pen and ink sketch.  -- Pen feather. A pin feather. [Obs.] -- Pen name. See under Name.  -- Sea pen (Zoöl.), a pennatula. [Usually written sea-pen.] 

PEN:  To write; to compose and commit to paper; to indite; to compose; as, to pen a sonnet. "A prayer elaborately penned." Milton. 

PEN:  To shut up, as in a pen or cage; to confine in a small inclosure or narrow space; to coop up, or shut in; to inclose. "Away with her, and pen her up." Shak. Watching where shepherds pen their flocks at eve. Milton. 

PEN:  A small inclosure; as, a pen for sheep or for pigs. My father stole two geese out of a pen. Shak. 

PENAL:  Of or pertaining to punishment, to penalties, or to crimes and offenses; pertaining to criminal jurisprudence: as: (a) Enacting or threatening punishment; as, a penal statue; the penal code. (b) Incurring punishment; subject to a penalty; as, a penalact of offense. (c) Inflicted as punishment; used as a means of punishment; as, a penal colony or settlement. "Adamantine chains and penal fire." Milton. Penal code (Law), a code of laws concerning crimes and offenses and their punishment.  -- Penal laws, Penal statutes (Law), laws prohibited certain acts, and imposing penalties for committing them.  -- Penal servitude, imprisonment with hard labor, in a prison, in lieu of transportation. [Great Brit.] -- Penal suit, Penal action (Law), a suit for penalties. 

PENALITY:  The quality or state of being penal; lability to punishment. Sir T. Browne. 

PENALIZE:  To put a penalty on. See Penalty, 3. [Eng.] 

PENALLY:  In a penal manner. 

PENANCE:  A means of repairing a sin committed, and obtaining pardon for it, consisting partly in the performance of expiatory rites, partly in voluntary submission to a punishment corresponding to the transgression. Penance is the fourth of seven sacraments in the Roman Catholic Church. Schaff-Herzog Encyc. And bitter penance, with an iron whip. Spenser. Quoth he, "The man hath penance done, And penance more will do." Coleridge. 

PENANCE:  To impose penance; to punish. "Some penanced lady elf." Keats. 

PENANCELESS:  Free from penance. [R.]  PENANG LAWYER Pe*nang" law"yer. [Prob. fr. Malay pinang liar.]  A kind of walking stick made from the stem of an East Asiatic palm (Licuala acutifida).  PENANG NUT Pe*nang" nut`. Etym: [From the native name.] (Bot.)  The betel nut. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

PENANNULAR:  Nearly annular; having nearly the form of a ring. "Penannular relics." D. Wilson. 

PENARY:  Penal. [Obs.] Gauden. 

PENATES:  The household gods of the ancient Romans. They presided over the home and the family hearth. See Lar. 

PENAUNT:  A penitent. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PENCE:  pl. of Penny. See Penny. 

PENCEL:  A small, narrow flag or streamer borne at the top of a lance; - - called also pennoncel. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Chaucer. 

PENCHANT:  Inclination; decided taste; bias; as, a penchant for art. 

PENCHUTE:  See Penstock. 

PENCIL:  An aggregate or collection of rays of light, especially when diverging from, or converging to, a point.  5. (Geom.)  A number of lines that intersect in one point, the point of intersection being called the pencil point.  6. (Med.)  A small medicated bougie. Pencil case, a holder for pencil lead.  -- Pencil flower (Bot.), an American perennial leguminous herb (Stylosanthes elatior).  -- Pencil lead, a slender rod of black lead, or the like, adapted for insertion in a holder. 

PENCIL:  To write or mark with a pencil; to paint or to draw. Cowper. Where nature pencils butterflies on flowers. Harte. 

PENCILED:  Marked with parallel or radiating lines. 

PENCILING:  Lines of white or black paint drawn along a mortar joint in a brick wall. Knight.  PENCILLATE; PENCILLATED Pen"cil*late, Pen"cil*la`ted, a.  Shaped like a pencil; penicillate. 

PEND:  Oil cake; penock. [India] 

PEND:  To pen; to confine. [R.] ended within the limits . . . of Greece. Udall. 

PENDANT:  A hanging ornament on roofs, ceilings, etc., much used in the later styles of Gothic architecture, where it is of stone, and an important part of the construction. There are imitations in plaster and wood, which are mere decorative features. "[A bridge] with . . . pendants graven fair." Spenser.  3. (Fine Arts)  One of a pair; a counterpart; as, one vase is the pendant to the other vase.  4. A pendulum. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.  5. The stem and ring of a watch, by which it is suspended. [U.S.] Knight. Pendant post (Arch.), a part of the framing of an open timber roof; a post set close against the wall, and resting upon a corbel or other solid support, and supporting the ends of a collar beam or any part of the roof. 

PENDENCE:  Slope; inclination. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

PENDENTLY:  In a pendent manner. 

PENDICE:  A sloping roof; a lean-to; a penthouse. [Obs.] Fairfax. 

PENDICLE:  An appendage; something dependent on another; an appurtenance; a pendant. Sir W. Scott. 

PENDICLER:  An inferior tenant; one who rents a pendicle or croft. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

PENDING:  Not yet decided; in continuance; in suspense; as, a pending suit. 

PENDING:  During; as, pending the trail. 

PENDRAGON:  A chief leader or a king; a head; a dictator; -- a title assumed by the ancient British chiefs when called to lead other chiefs. The dread Pendragon, Britain's king of kings. Tennyson. 

PENDULAR:  Pendulous. 

PENDULATE:  To swing as a pendulum. [R.] 

PENDULE:  A pendulum. [R.] Evelyn. 

PENDULINE:  A European titmouse (Parus, or Ægithalus, pendulinus). It is noted for its elegant pendulous purselike nest, made of the down of willow trees and lined with feathers. 

PENDULOSITY:  The state or quality of being pendulous. Sir T. Browne. 

PENDULOUS:  Inclined or hanging downwards, as a flower on a recurved stalk, or an ovule which hangs from the upper part of the ovary. 

PENDULOUSLY:  In a pendulous manner. 

PENDULOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being pendulous; the state of hanging loosely; pendulosity. 

PENDULUM:  A body so suspended from a fixed point as to swing freely to and fro by the alternate action of gravity and momentum. It is used to regulate the movements of clockwork and other machinery.  Note: The time of oscillation of a pendulum is independent of the arc of vibration, provided this arc be small. Ballistic pendulum. See under Ballistic.  -- Compensation pendulum, a clock pendulum in which the effect of changes of temperature of the length of the rod is so counteracted, usually by the opposite expansion of differene metals, that the distance of the center of oscillation from the center of suspension remains invariable; as, the mercurial compensation pendulum, in which the expansion of the rod is compensated by the opposite expansion of mercury in a jar constituting the bob; the gridiron pendulum, in which compensation is effected by the opposite expansion of sets of rodsof different metals.  -- Compound pendulum, an ordinary pendulum; -- so called, as being made up of different parts, and contrasted with simple pendulum.  -- Conical or Revolving, pendulum, a weight connected by a rod with a fixed point; and revolving in a horizontal cyrcle about the vertical from that point.  -- Pendulum bob, the weight at the lower end of a pendulum.  -- Pendulum level, a plumb level. See under Level.  -- Pendulum wheel, the balance of a watch.  -- Simple or Theoretical, pendulum, an imaginary pendulum having no dimensions except length, and no weight except at the center of oscillation; in other words, a material point suspended by an ideal line. 

PENELOPE:  A genus of curassows, including the guans. 

PENEPLAIN:  A land surface reduced by erosion to the general condition of a plain, but not wholly devoid of hills; a base-level plain. 

PENETRABILITY:  The quality of being penetrable; susceptibility of being penetrated, entered, or pierced. Cheyne. 

PENETRABLE:  Capable of being penetrated, entered, or pierced. Used also figuratively. And pierce his only penetrable part. Dryden. I am not made of stones, But penetrable to your kind entreats. Shak. -- Pen"e*tra*ble*ness, n.  -- Pen"e*tra*bly, adv. 

PENETRAIL:  Penetralia. [Obs.] Harvey. 

PENETRALIA:  The quality or state of being penetrant; power of entering or piercing; penetrating power of quality; as, the penetrancy of subtile effluvia. 

PENETRANT:  Having power to enter or pierce; penetrating; sharp; subtile; as, penetrant cold. "Penetrant and powerful arguments." Boyle. 

PENETRATE:  To pass; to make way; to pierce. Also used figuratively. Preparing to penetrate to the north and west. J. R. Green. Born where Heaven's influence scarce can penetrate. Pope. The sweet of life that penetrates so near. Daniel. 

PENETRATINGLY:  In a penetrating manner. 

PENETRATIVENESS:  The quality of being penetrative. 

PENFISH:  A squid. 

PENFOLD:  See Pinfold. 

PENGOLIN:  The pangolin. 

PENGUIN:  Any bird of the order Impennes, or Ptilopteri. They are covered with short, thick feathers, almost scalelike on the wings, which are without true quills. They are unable to fly, but use their wings to aid in diving, in which they are very expert. See King penguin, under Jackass.  Note: Penguins are found in the south temperate and antarctic regions. The king penguins (Aptenodytes Patachonica, and A. longirostris) are the largest; the jackass penguins (Spheniscus) and the rock hoppers (Catarractes) congregate in large numbers at their breeding grounds.  2. (Bot.)  The egg-shaped fleshy fruit of a West Indian plant (Bromelia Pinguin) of the Pineapple family; also, the plant itself, which has rigid, pointed, and spiny-toothed leaves, and is used for hedges. [Written also pinguin.] Arctic penguin (Zoöl.), the great auk. See Auk. 

PENGUINERY:  A breeding place, or rookery, of penguins. 

PENHOLDER:  A handle for a pen. 

PENHOUSE:  A penthouse. [Obs.] 

PENIBLE:  Painstaking; assidous. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PENICIL:  A tent or pledget for wounds or ulcers. 

PENICILLATE:  Having the form of a pencil; furnished with a pencil of fine hairs; ending in a tuft of hairs like a camel's-hair brush, as the stigmas of some grasses. 

PENICILLIFORM:  Penicillate. 

PENINSULA:  A portion of land nearly surrounded by water, and connected with a larger body by a neck, or isthmus. 

PENINSULAR:  Of or pertaining to a peninsula; as, a peninsular form; peninsular people; the peninsular war.  PENINSULA STATE Pen*in"su*la State.  Florida; -- a nickname. 

PENINSULATE:  To form into a peninsula. South River . . . peninsulates Castle Hill farm. W. Bentley. 

PENIS:  The male member, or organ of generation. 

PENITENCE:  The quality or condition of being penitent; the disposition of a penitent; sorrow for sins or faults; repentance; contrition. "Penitence of his old guilt." Chaucer. Death is deferred, and penitenance has room To mitigate, if not reverse, the doom. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Repentance; contrition; compunction. 

PENITENCER:  A priest who heard confession and enjoined penance in extraordinary cases. [Written also penitenser.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PENITENCY:  Penitence. [Obs.] 

PENITENTIAL:  Of or pertaining to penitence, or to penance; expressing penitence; of the nature of penance; as, the penitential book; penitential tears. "Penitential stripes." Cowper. Guilt that all the penitential fires of hereafter can not cleanse. Sir W. Scott. 

PENITENTIAL:  A book formerly used by priests hearing confessions, containing rules for the imposition of penances; -- called also penitential book. 

PENITENTIALLY:  In a penitential manner. 

PENITENTIARYSHIP:  The office or condition of a penitentiary of the papal court. [R.] Wood. 

PENITENTLY:  In a penitent manner. 

PENK:  A minnow. See Pink, n., 4. [Prov. Eng.] Walton. 

PENKNIFE:  A small pocketknife; formerly, a knife used for making and mending quill pens. 

PENMANSHIP:  The use of the pen in writing; the art of writing; style or manner of writing; chirography; as, good or bad penmanship. 

PENNA:  A perfect, or normal, feather. 

PENNACEOUS:  Like or pertaining to a normal feather. 

PENNACH:  A bunch of feathers; a plume. [Obs.] Holland. 

PENNACHED:  Variegated; striped. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

PENNAGE:  Feathery covering; plumage. [Obs.] Holland. 

PENNANT:  Same as Pinnate. 

PENNATULA:  Any one of numerous species of Pennatula, Pteroides, and allied genera of Alcyonaria, having a featherlike form; a sea-pen. The zooids are situated along one edge of the side branches. 

PENNATULACEA:  A division of alcyonoid corals, including the seapens and related kinds. They are able to move about by means of the hollow muscular peduncle, which also serves to support them upright in the mud. See Pennatula, and Illust. under Alcyonaria. 

PENNIFORM:  Having the form of a feather or plume. 

PENNIGEROUS:  Bearing feathers or quills. 

PENNILESS:  Destitute of money; impecunious; poor.  -- Pen"ni*less*ness, n. 

PENNINERVED:  Pinnately veined or nerved. 

PENNIPOTENT:  Strong of wing; strong on the wing. [Poetic] Davies (Holy Roode). 

PENNON:  A wing; a pinion. Milton. 

PENNON:  A pennant; a flag or streamer. Longfellow.  PENNONCEL; PENNONCELLE Pen"non*cel`, Pen"non*celle`, n. Etym: [OF. penoncel. See Pennant.]  See Pencel. 

PENNY:  Denoting pound weight for one thousand; -- used in combination, with respect to nails; as, tenpenny nails, nails of which one thousand weight ten pounds. 

PENNY:  See Denarius. Penny cress (Bot.), an annual herb of the Mustard family, having round, flat pods like silver pennies (Thlaspi arvense). Dr. Prior.  -- Penny dog (Zoöl.), a kind of shark found on the South coast of Britain: the tope.  -- Penny father, a penurious person; a niggard. [Obs.] Robinson (More's Utopia).  -- Penny grass (Bot.), pennyroyal. [R.] -- Penny post, a post carrying a letter for a penny; also, a mail carrier.  -- Penny wise, wise or prudent only in small matters; saving small sums while losing larger; -- used chiefly in the phrase, penny wise and pound foolish. 

PENNY:  Worth or costing one penny.  PENNY-A-LINER Pen"ny-a-lin"er, n.  One who furnishes matter to public journals at so much a line; a poor writer for hire; a hack writer. Thackeray. 

PENNYROYAL:  An aromatic herb (Mentha Pulegium) of Europe; also, a North American plant (Hedeoma pulegioides) resembling it in flavor. Bastard pennyroyal (Bot.) See Blue curls, under Blue. 

PENNYWEIGHT:  A troy weight containing twenty-four grains, or the twentieth part of an ounce; as, a pennyweight of gold or of arsenic. It was anciently the weight of a silver penny, whence the name. 

PENNYWORT:  A European trailing herb (Linaria Cymbalaria) with roundish, reniform leaves. It is often cultivated in hanging baskets. March, or Water, pennywort. (Bot.) See under March. 

PENOCK:  See Pend. 

PENOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to penology. 

PENOLOGIST:  One versed in, or a student of, penology. 

PENOLOGY:  The science or art of punishment. [Written also poenology.] 

PENRACK:  A rack for pens not in use. 

PENS:  pl. of Penny. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PENSATIVE:  Pensive. [Obs.] Shelton. 

PENSEL:  A pencel. Chaucer. 

PENSIBLE:  Held aloft. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PENSILE:  Hanging; suspended; pendent; pendulous. Bacon. The long, pensile branches of the birches. W. Howitt. 

PENSILENESS:  State or quality of being pensile; pendulousness. 

PENSION:  A boarding house or boarding school in France, Belgium, Switzerland, etc. 

PENSION:  To grant a pension to; to pay a regular stipend to; in consideration of service already performed; -- sometimes followed by off; as, to pension off a servant. One knighted Blackmore, and one pensioned Quarles. Pope. 

PENSIONER:  In the university of Cambridge, England, one who pays for his living in commons; -- corresponding to commoner at Oxford. Ld. Lytton. 

PENSIVED:  Made pensive. [R.] Shak. 

PENSIVELY:  In a pensive manner. 

PENSIVENESS:  The state of being pensive; serious thoughtfulness; seriousness. Hooker. 

PENT:  Penned or shut up; confined; -- often with up. Here in the body pent. J. Montgomery. No pent-up Utica contracts your powers. J. M. Sewall.  PENTA- Pen"ta-. Etym: [Gr. Five.]  1. A combining form denoting five; as, pentacapsular; pentagon.  2. (Chem.)  Denoting the degree of five, either as regards quality, property, or composition; as, pentasulphide; pentoxide, etc. Also used adjectively. 

PENTABASIC:  Capable of uniting with five molecules of a monacid base; having five acid hydrogen atoms capable of substitution by a basic radical; -- said of certain acids. 

PENTACAPSULAR:  Having five capsules. 

PENTACHENIUM:  A dry fruit composed of five carpels, which are covered by an epigynous calyx and separate at maturity. 

PENTACHLORIDE:  A chloride having five atoms of chlorine in each molecule. 

PENTACID:  Capable of neutralizing, or combining with, five molecules of a monobasic acid; having five hydrogen atoms capable of substitution by acid residues; -- said of certain complex bases. 

PENTACLE:  A figure composed of two equilateral triangles intersecting so as to form a six-pointed star, -- used in early ornamental art, and also with superstitious import by the astrologers and mystics of the Middle Ages. 

PENTACOCCOUS:  Composed of five united carpels with one seed in each, as certain fruits. 

PENTACONTER:  See Penteconter. 

PENTACRININ:  A red and purple pigment found in certain crinoids of the genus Pentacrinus. 

PENTACRINITE:  Any species of Pentacrinus. 

PENTACRINOID:  An immature comatula when it is still attached by a stem, and thus resembles a Pentacrinus. 

PENTACRINUS:  A genus of large, stalked crinoids, of which several species occur in deep water among the West Indies and elsewhere. 

PENTACRON:  A solid having five summits or angular points. 

PENTACROSTIC:  A set of verses so disposed that the name forming the subject of the acrostic occurs five times -- the whole set of verses being divided into five different parts from top to bottom. 

PENTAD:  Any element, atom, or radical, having a valence of five, or which can be combined with, substituted for, or compared with, five atoms of hydrogen or other monad; as, nitrogen is a pentad in the ammonium compounds. 

PENTAD:  Having the valence of a pentad.  PENTADACTYL; PENTADACTYLE Pen`ta*dac"tyl, Pen`ta*dac"tyle, a. Etym: [Gr. Penta-, and Dactyl.]  1. (Anat.)  Having five digits to the hand or foot.  2. Having five appendages resembling fingers or toes. 

PENTADACTYLOID:  Having the form of, or a structure modified from, a pentadactyl limb. 

PENTADECANE:  A hydrocarbon of the paraffin series, (C15H32) found in petroleum, tar oil, etc., and obtained as a colorless liquid; -- so called from the fifteen carbon atoms in the molecule. 

PENTADECATOIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, pentadecane, or designating an acid related to it. 

PENTADECYLIC:  Same as Quindecylic. 

PENTADELPHOUS:  Having the stamens arranged in five clusters, those of each cluster having their filaments more or less united, as the flowers of the linden. 

PENTAFID:  Divided or cleft into five parts. 

PENTAGLOT:  A work in five different tongues. 

PENTAGON:  A plane figure having five angles, and, consequently, five sides; any figure having five angles. Regular pentagon, a pentagon in which the angles are all equal, and the sides all equal. 

PENTAGONAL:  Having five corners or angles. Pentagonal dodecahedron. See Dodecahedron, and Pyritohedron. 

PENTAGONALLY:  In the form of a pentagon; with five angles. Sir T. Browne. 

PENTAGONOUS:  Pentagonal. 

PENTAGRAM:  A pentacle or a pentalpha. "Like a wizard pentagram." Tennyson.  PENTAGRAPHIC; PENTAGRAPHICAL Pen`ta*graph"ic, Pen`ta*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. pantographic, -ical.]  Pantographic. See Pantograph. 

PENTAGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants, having five styles or pistils.  PENTAGYNIAN; PENTAGYNOUS Pen`ta*gyn"i*an, Pen*tag"y*nous, a. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to plants of the order Pentagyna; having five styles. 

PENTAHEDRAL:  Having five sides; as, a pentahedral figure. 

PENTAHEDRICAL:  Pentahedral. [R.] 

PENTAHEDRON:  A solid figure having five sides. 

PENTAHEDROUS:  Pentahedral. Woodward. 

PENTAIL:  A peculiar insectivore (Ptilocercus Lowii) of Borneo; -- so called from its very long, quill-shaped tail, which is scaly at the base and plumose at the tip. 

PENTALPHA:  A five-pointed star, resembling five alphas joined at their bases; -- used as a symbol. 

PENTAMERA:  An extensive division of Coleoptera, including those that normally have five-jointed tarsi. It embraces about half of all the known species of the Coleoptera. 

PENTAMERAN:  One of the Pentamera. 

PENTAMEROUS:  Divided into, or consisting of, five parts; also, arranged in sets, with five parts in each set, as a flower with five sepals, five petals, five, or twice five, stamens, and five pistils.  2. (Zoöl.)  Belonging to the Pentamera. 

PENTAMERUS:  A genus of extinct Paleozoic brachiopods, often very abundant in the Upper Silurian. Pentamerus limestone (Geol.), a Silurian limestone composed largely of the shells of Pentamerus. 

PENTAMETER:  A verse of five feet.  Note: The dactylic pentameter consists of two parts separated by a diæresis. Each part consists of two dactyls and a long syllable. The spondee may take the place of the dactyl in the first part, but not in the second. The elegiac distich consists of the hexameter followed by the pentameter. Harkness. 

PENTAMETER:  Having five metrical feet. 

PENTAMETHYLENE:  A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C5H10, metameric with the amylenes, and the nucleus of a large number of derivatives; -- so named because regarded as composed of five methylene residues. Cf. Trimethylene, and Tetramethylene. 

PENTANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having five separate stamens.  PENTANDRIAN; PENTANDROUS Pen*tan"dri*an, Pen*tan"drous, a. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the class Pentadria; having five stamens. 

PENTANE:  Any one of the three metameric hydrocarbons, C5H12, of the methane or paraffin series. They are colorless, volatile liquids, two of which occur in petroleum. So called because of the five carbon atoms in the molecule. 

PENTANGLE:  A pentagon. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PENTANGULAR:  Having five corners or angles. [R.] 

PENTAPETALOUS:  Having five petals, or flower leaves. 

PENTAPHYLLOUS:  Having five leaves or leaflets. 

PENTAPODY:  A measure or series consisting of five feet. 

PENTAPTOTE:  A noun having five cases. 

PENTAPTYCH:  A picture, or combination of pictures, consisting of a centerpiece and double folding doors or wings, as for an altarpiece. 

PENTARCHY:  A government in the hands of five persons; five joint rulers. P. Fletcher. "The pentarchy of the senses." A. Brewer. 

PENTASPAST:  A purchase with five pulleys. [R.] 

PENTASPERMOUS:  Containing five seeds. 

PENTASTICH:  A composition consisting of five verses. 

PENTASTICHOUS:  Having, or arranged in, five vertical ranks, as the leaves of an apple tree or a cherry tree. 

PENTASTOMIDA:  Same as Linguatulina. 

PENTASTYLE:  Having five columns in front; -- said of a temple or portico in classical architecture.  -- n.  A portico having five columns. 

PENTATEUCH:  The first five books of the Old Testament, collectively; -- called also the Law of Moses, Book of the Law of Moses, etc. 

PENTATEUCHAL:  Of or pertaining to the Pentateuch. 

PENTATHIONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of sulphur obtained by leading hydrogen sulphide into a solution of sulphur dioxide; -- so called because it contains five atoms of sulphur. 

PENTATHLON:  A fivefold athletic performance peculiar to the great national games of the Greeks, including leaping, foot racing, wrestling, throwing the discus, and throwing the spear. 

PENTAVALENT:  Having a valence of five; -- said of certain atoms and radicals. 

PENTECONTER:  A Grecian vessel with fifty oars. [Written also pentaconter.] 

PENTECOSTAL:  Of or pertaining to Pentecost or to Whitsuntide. 

PENTECOSTALS:  Offerings formerly made to the parish priest, or to the mother church, at Pentecost. Shipley. 

PENTECOSTER:  An officer in the Spartan army commanding fifty men. Mitford. 

PENTECOSTY:  A troop of fifty soldiers in the Spartan army; -- called also pentecostys. Jowett (Thucyd. ).  PENTELIC; PENTELICAN Pen*tel"ic, Pen*tel"i*can, a.  Of or pertaining to Mount Pentelicus, near Athens, famous for its fine white marble quarries; obtained from Mount Pentelicus; as, the Pentelic marble of which the Parthenon is built. 

PENTENE:  Same as Amylene. 

PENTHOUSE:  A shed or roof sloping from the main wall or building, as over a door or window; a lean-to. Also figuratively. "The penthouse of his eyes." Sir W. Scott. 

PENTHOUSE:  Leaning; overhanging. "Penthouse lid." Shak. "My penthouse eyebrows." Dryden. 

PENTICE:  A penthouse. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

PENTILE:  See Pantile. 

PENTINE:  An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C5H8, of the acetylene series. Same as Valerylene. 

PENTOIC:  Pertaining to, or desingating, an acid (called also valeric acid) derived from pentane. 

PENTONE:  Same as Valylene.  PENTOSAN; PENTOSANE Pen"to*san, n. Also -sane. [From Pentose.] (Chem.)  One of a class of substances (complex carbohydrates widely distributed in plants, as in fruits, gums, woods, hay, etc.) which yield pentoses on hydrolysis. 

PENTOSE:  Any of a group of sugars of the formula C5H10O5, as arabinose; -- so called from the five carbon atoms in the molecule. They are not fermented by yeast. 

PENTOXIDE:  An oxide containing five atoms of oxygen in each molecule; as, phosphorus pentoxide, P2O5. 

PENTREMITE:  Any species of Pentremites. 

PENTREMITES:  A genus of crinoids belonging to the Blastoidea. They have five petal-like ambulacra. 

PENTROOF:  See Lean-to. 

PENTROUGH:  A penstock. 

PENTYL:  The hypothetical radical, C5H11, of pentane and certain of its derivatives. Same as Amyl. 

PENTYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, pentyl; as, pentylic alcohol  PENUCHLE; PINOCLE Pe"nu*chle, Pin"o*cle, n.  A game at cards, played with forty-eight cards, being all the cards above the eight spots in two packs. 

PENULT:  The last syllable but one of a word; the syllable preceding the final one. 

PENULTIMA:  Same as Penult. 

PENULTIMATE:  Last but one; as, the penultimate syllable, the last syllable but one of a word. 

PENULTIMATE:  The penult. 

PENUMBRA:  The shadow cast, in an eclipse, where the light is partly, but not wholly, cut off by the intervening body; the space of partial illumination between the umbra, or perfect shadow, on all sides, and the full light. Sir I. Newton.  Note: The faint shade surrounding the dark central portion of a solar spot is also called the penumbra, and sometimes umbra.  3. (Paint.)  The part of a picture where the shade imperceptibly blends with the light. 

PENUMBRALA:  Of or pertaining to a penumbra; resembling a penumbra; partially illuminated. 

PENWIPER:  A cloth, or other material, for wiping off or cleaning ink from a pen. 

PENWOMAN:  A female writer; an authoress. Johnson. 

PEON:  See Poon. 

PEON:  See 2d Pawn. 

PEONAGE:  The condition of a peon. 

PEONISM:  Same as Peonage. D. Webster. 

PEONY:  A plant, and its flower, of the ranunculaceous genus Pæonia. Of the four or five species, one is a shrub; the rest are perennial herbs with showy flowers, often double in cultivation. [Written also pæony, and piony.] 

PEOPLE:  To stock with people or inhabitants; to fill as with people; to populate. "Peopled heaven with angels." Dryden. As the gay motes that people the sunbeams. Milton . 

PEOPLED:  Stocked with, or as with, people; inhabited. "The peopled air." Gray. 

PEOPLELESS:  Destitute of people. Poe. 

PEOPLER:  A settler; an inhabitant. "Peoplers of the peaceful glen." J. S. Blackie.  PEOPLE'S BANK Peo"ple's bank.  A form of coöperative bank, such as those of Germany; -- a term loosely used for various forms of coöperative financial institutions.  PEOPLE'S PARTY People's party. (U. S. Politics)  A party formed in 1891, advocating in an increase of the currency, public ownership and operation of railroads, telegraphs, etc., an income tax, limitation in ownership of land, etc. 

PEOPLISH:  Vulgar. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PEORIAS:  An Algonquin tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited a part of Illinois. 

PEPASTIC:  Same as Maturative.  PEPERINE; PEPERINO Pep"e*rine, Pep`e*ri"no, n. Etym: [It. peperino, L. piper pepper. So called on account of its color.] (Geol.)  A volcanic rock, formed by the cementing together of sand, scoria, cinders, etc. 

PEPLIS:  A genus of plants including water purslane. 

PEPLUM:   A peplos. Hence: An overskirt hanging like an ancient peplos; also, a short fitted skirt attached to a waist or coat. 

PEPO:  Any fleshy fruit with a firm rind, as a pumpkin, melon, or gourd. See Gourd. 

PEPPER:  The plant which yields pepper, an East Indian woody climber (Piper nigrum), with ovate leaves and apetalous flowers in spikes opposite the leaves. The berries are red when ripe. Also, by extension, any one of the several hundred species of the genus Piper, widely dispersed throughout the tropical and subtropical regions of the earth.  3. Any plant of the genus Capsicum, and its fruit; red pepper; as, the bell pepper.  Note: The term pepper has been extended to various other fruits and plants, more or less closely resembling the true pepper, esp. to the common varieties of Capsicum. See Capsicum, and the Phrases, below. African pepper, the Guinea pepper. See under Guinea.  -- Cayenne pepper. See under Cayenne.  -- Chinese pepper, the spicy berries of the Xanthoxylum piperitum, a species of prickly ash found in China and Japan.  -- Guinea pepper. See under Guinea, and Capsicum.  -- Jamaica pepper. See Allspice.  -- Long pepper. (a) The spike of berries of Piper longum, an East Indian shrub. (b) The root of Piper, or Macropiper, methysticum. See Kava.  -- Malaguetta, or Meleguetta, pepper, the aromatic seeds of the Amomum Melegueta, an African plant of the Ginger family. They are sometimes used to flavor beer, etc., under the name of grains of Paradise.  -- Red pepper. See Capsicum.  -- Sweet pepper bush (Bot.), an American shrub (Clethra alnifolia), with racemes of fragrant white flowers; -- called also white alder.  -- Pepper box or caster, a small box or bottle, with a perforated lid, used for sprinkling ground pepper on food, etc.  -- Pepper corn. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Pepper elder (Bot.), a West Indian name of several plants of the Pepper family, species of Piper and Peperomia.  -- Pepper moth (Zoöl.), a European moth (Biston betularia) having white wings covered with small black specks.  -- Pepper pot, a mucilaginous soup or stew of vegetables and cassareep, much esteemed in the West Indies.  -- Pepper root. (Bot.). See Coralwort.  -- pepper sauce, a condiment for the table, made of small red peppers steeped in vinegar.  -- Pepper tree (Bot.), an aromatic tree (Drimys axillaris) of the Magnolia family, common in New Zealand. See Peruvian mastic tree, under Mastic. 

PEPPER:  To fire numerous shots (at).  PEPPER BOX Pep"per box`, n.  A buttress on the left-hand wall of a fives court as the game is played at Eton College, England. 

PEPPERBRAND:  See 1st Bunt. 

PEPPERCORN:  A variety of edible seaweed (Laurencia pinnatifida) distinguished for its pungency. [Scot.] Lindley. 

PEPPERER:  A grocer; -- formerly so called because he sold pepper. [Obs.] 

PEPPERIDGE:  A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora) with very tough wood, handsome oval polished leaves, and very acid berries, -- the sour gum, or common tupelo. See Tupelo. [Written also piperidge and pipperidge.] Pepperidge bush (Bot.), the barberry. 

PEPPERING:  Hot; pungent; peppery. Swift. 

PEPPERMINT:  An aromatic and pungent plant of the genus Mentha (M. piperita), much used in medicine and confectionery.  2. A volatile oil (oil of peppermint) distilled from the fresh herb; also, a well-known essence or spirit (essence of peppermint) obtained from it.  3. A lozenge of sugar flavored with peppermint. Peppermint camphor. (Chem.) Same as Menthol.  -- Peppermint tree (Bot.), a name given to several Australian species of gum tree (Eucalyptus amygdalina, E. piperita, E. odorata, etc.) which have hard and durable wood, and yield an essential oil. 

PEPPERWORT:  See Peppergrass. 

PEPSIN:  An unorganized proteolytic ferment or enzyme contained in the secretory glands of the stomach. In the gastric juice it is united with dilute hydrochloric acid (0.2 per cent, approximately) and the two together constitute the active portion of the digestive fluid. It is the active agent in the gastric juice of all animals.  Note: As prepared from the glandular layer of pigs' or calves' stomachs it constitutes an important article of pharmacy. 

PEPSINHYDROCHLORIC:  Same as Peptohydrochloric. 

PEPSINOGEN:  The antecedent of the ferment pepsin. A substance contained in the form of granules in the peptic cells of the gastric glands. It is readily convertible into pepsin. Also called propepsin. 

PEPTIC:  Pertaining to pepsin; resembling pepsin in its power of digesting or dissolving albuminous matter; containing or yielding pepsin, or a body of like properties; as, the peptic glands. 

PEPTIC:  The digestive organs. Is there some magic in the place, Or do my peptics differ Tennyson. 

PEPTICS:  The science of digestion. 

PEPTOGEN:  A substance convertible into peptone. 

PEPTOGENIC:  Same as Peptogenous. 

PEPTOGENOUS:  Capable of yielding, or being converted into, peptone. 

PEPTOHYDROCHLORIC:  Designating a hypothetical acid (called peptohydrochloric acid, pepsinhydrochloric acid, and chloropeptic acid) which is supposed to be formed when pepsin and dilute (0.1-0.4 per cent) hydrochloric acid are mixed together. 

PEPTONIZE:  To convert into peptone; to digest or dissolve by means of a proteolytic ferment; as, peptonized food. 

PEPTONOID:  A substance related to peptone. 

PEPTONURIA:  The presence of peptone, or a peptonelike body, in the urine. 

PEPTOTOXINE:  A toxic alkaloid found occasionally associated with the peptones formed from fibrin by pepsinhydrochloric acid. 

PEQUOTS:  A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited Eastern Connecticut. [Written also Pequods.]  PER- Per-. Etym: [See Per.]  1. A prefix used to signify through, throughout, by, for, or as an intensive as perhaps, by hap or chance; perennial, that lasts throughout the year; perforce, through or by force; perfoliate, perforate; perspicuous, evident throughout or very evident; perplex, literally, to entangle very much.  2. (Chem.)  Originally, denoting that the element to the name of which it is prefixed in the respective compounds exercised its highest valence; now, only that the element has a higher valence than in other similar compounds; thus, barium peroxide is the highest oxide of barium; while nitrogen and manganese peroxides, so-called, are not the highest oxides of those elements. 

PER:  Through; by means of; through the agency of; by; for; for each; as, per annum; per capita, by heads, or according to individuals; per curiam, by the court; per se, by itself, of itself. Per is also sometimes used with English words. Per annum, by the year; in each successive year; annually.  -- Per cent, Per centum, by the hundred; in the hundred; -- used esp. of proportions of ingredients, rate or amount of interest, and the like; commonly used in the shortened form per cent.  -- Per diem, by the day. [For other phrases from the Latin, see Quotations, Phrases, etc., from Foreign Languages, in the Supplement.] 

PERACT:  To go through with; to perform. [Obs.] Sylvester. 

PERACUTE:  Very sharp; very violent; as, a peracute fever. [R.] Harvey. 

PERADVENTURE:  By chance; perhaps; it may be; if; supposing. "If peradventure he speak against me." Shak. Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city. Gen. xviii. 24. 

PERADVENTURE:  Chance; hap; hence, doubt; question; as, proved beyond peradventure. South. 

PERAEOPOD:  One of the thoracic legs of a crustacean. See Illust. of Crustacea. 

PERAGRATE:  To travel over or through. [Obs.] 

PERAGRATION:  The act or state of passing through any space; as, the peragration of the moon in her monthly revolution. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PERAMBULATE:  To walk through or over; especially, to travel over for the purpose of surveying or examining; to inspect by traversing; specifically, to inspect officially the boundaries of, as of a town or parish, by walking over the whole line. 

PERAMBULATE:  To walk about; to ramble; to stroll; as, he perambulated in the park. 

PERAMELES:  Any marsupial of the genus Perameles, which includes numerous species found in Australia. They somewhat resemble rabbits in size and form. See Illust. under Bandicoot. 

PERBEND:  See Perpender. 

PERBREAK:  See Parbreak. 

PERBROMATE:  A salt of perbromic acid. 

PERBROMIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, the highest oxygen acid, HBrO4, of bromine. 

PERBROMIDE:  A bromide having a higher proportion of bromine than any other bromide of the same substance or series. 

PERCA:  A genus of fishes, including the fresh-water perch. 

PERCALE:  A fine cotton fabric, having a linen finish, and often printed on one side, -- used for women's and children's wear. 

PERCALINE:  A fine kind of French cotton goods, usually of one color. 

PERCARBIDE:  A compound containing a relatively large amount of carbon. [R.] 

PERCARBURET:  A percarbide. [Obsoles.] 

PERCARBURETED:  Combined with a relatively large amount of carbon. 

PERCASE:  Perhaps; perchance. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PERCE:  To pierce. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PERCEIVABLE:  Capable of being perceived; perceptible.  -- Per*ceiv"a*bly, adv. 

PERCEIVANCE:  Power of perceiving. [Obs.] "The senses and common perceivance." Milton. 

PERCEIVER:  One who perceives (in any of the senses of the verb). Milton. 

PERCELY:  Parsley. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PERCENTAGE:  A certain rate per cent; the allowance, duty, rate of interest, discount, or commission, on a hundred. 

PERCEPT:  That which is perceived. Sir W. Hamilton. The modern discussion between percept and concept, the one sensuous, the other intellectual. Max Müller. 

PERCEPTIBLE:  Capable of being perceived; cognizable; discernible; perceivable. With a perceptible blast of the air. Bacon. -- Per*cep"ti*ble*ness, n.  -- Per*cep"ti*bly, adv. 

PERCEPTION:  The faculty of perceiving; the faculty, or peculiar part, of man's constitution by which he has knowledge through the medium or instrumentality of the bodily organs; the act of apperhending material objects or qualities through the senses; -- distinguished from conception. Sir W. Hamilton. Matter hath no life nor perception, and is not conscious of its own existence. Bentley.  3. The quality, state, or capability, of being affected by something external; sensation; sensibility. [Obs.] This experiment discovereth perception in plants. Bacon.  4. An idea; a notion. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.  Note: "The word perception is, in the language of philosophers previous to Reid, used in a very extensive signification. By Descartes, Malebranche, Locke, Leibnitz, and others, it is employed in a sense almost as unexclusive as consciousness, in its widest signification. By Reid this word was limited to our faculty acquisitive of knowledge, and to that branch of this faculty whereby, through the senses, we obtain a knowledge of the external world. But his limitation did not stop here. In the act of external perception he distinguished two elements, to which he gave the names of perception and sensation. He ought perhaps to have called these perception proper and sensation proper, when employed in his special meaning." Sir W. Hamilton. 

PERCEPTIVE:  Of or pertaining to the act or power of perceiving; having the faculty or power of perceiving; used in perception. "His perceptive and reflective faculties." Motley. 

PERCEPTIVITY:  The quality or state of being perceptive; power of perception. Locke. 

PERCESOCES:  An order of fishes including the gray mullets (Mugil), the barracudas, the silversides, and other related fishes. So called from their relation both to perches and to pikes. 

PERCH:  To alight or settle, as a bird; to sit or roost. Wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch. Shak. 

PERCHANCE:  By chance; perhaps; peradventure. 

PERCHANT:  A bird tied by the foot, to serve as decoy to other birds by its fluttering. 

PERCHER:  A Paris candle anciently used in England; also, a large wax candle formerly set upon the altar. [Obs.] Bailey. 

PERCHERON:  One of a breed of draught horses originating in Perche, an old district of France; -- called also Percheron-Norman. 

PERCHLORATE:  A salt of perchloric acid. 

PERCHLORIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, the highest oxygen acid (HClO4), of chlorine; -- called also hyperchloric. 

PERCHLORIDE:  A chloride having a higher proportion of chlorine than any other chloride of the same substance or series. 

PERCHROMIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a certain one of the highly oxidized compounds of chromium, which has a deep blue color, and is produced by the action of hydrogen peroxide. 

PERCIFORM:  Pertaining to the Perciformes. 

PERCIFORMES:  An extensive tribe or suborder of fishes, including the true perches (Percidæ); the pondfishes (Centrarchidæ); the sciænoids (Sciænidæ); the sparoids (Sparidæ); the serranoids (Serranidæ), and some other related families.  PERCIPIENCE; PERCIPIENCY Per*cip"i*ence, Per*cip"i*en*cy, n.  The faculty, act or power of perceiving; perception. Mrs. Browning. 

PERCIPIENT:  Having the faculty of perception; perceiving; as, a percipient being. Bentley.  -- n.  One who, or that which, is percipient. Glanvill. 

PERCLOSE:  Same as Parclose.  2. Conclusion; end. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

PERCOID:  Belonging to, or resembling, the perches, or family Percidæ.  -- n.  Any fish of the genus Perca, or allied genera of the family Percidæ. 

PERCOIDEA:  Same as Perciformes. 

PERCOLATE:  To cause to pass through fine interstices, as a liquor; to filter; to strain. Sir M. Hale. 

PERCOLATE:  To pass through fine interstices; to filter; as, water percolates through porous stone. 

PERCOLATION:  The act or process of percolating, or filtering; filtration; straining. Specifically (Pharm.), the process of exhausting the virtues of a powdered drug by letting a liquid filter slowly through it. 

PERCOLATOR:  One who, or that which, filters. "[Tissues] act as percolators." Henfrey. 

PERCOMORPHI:  A division of fishes including the perches and related kinds. 

PERCULACED:  Latticed. See Lattice, n., 2. 

PERCURRENT:  Running through the entire length. 

PERCURSORY:  Running over slightly or in haste; cursory. [R.] 

PERCUSS:  To strike smartly; to strike upon or against; as, to percuss the chest in medical examination. Flame percussed by air giveth a noise. Bacon. 

PERCUSS:  To strike or tap in an examination by percussion. See Percussion, 3. Quain. 

PERCUSSION:  The act of tapping or striking the surface of the body in order to learn the condition of the parts beneath by the sound emitted or the sensation imparted to the fingers. Percussion is said to be immediate if the blow is directly upon the body; if some interventing substance, as a pleximeter, is, used, it is called mediate. Center of percussion. See under Center.  -- Percussion bullet, a bullet containing a substance which is exploded by percussion; an explosive bullet.  -- Percussion cap, a small copper cap or cup, containing fulminating powder, and used with a percussion lock to explode gunpowder.  -- Percussion fuze. See under Fuze.  -- Percussion lock, the lock of a gun that is fired by percussion upon fulminating powder.  -- Percussion match, a match which ignites by percussion.  -- Percussion powder, powder so composed as to ignite by slight percussion; fulminating powder.  -- Percussion sieve, Percussion table, a machine for sorting ores by agitation in running water. 

PERCUSSIVE:  Striking against; percutient; as, percussive force. 

PERCUTIENT:  Striking; having the power of striking.  -- n.  That which strikes, or has power to strike. Bacon. 

PERDICINE:  Of or pertaining to the family Perdicidæ, or partridges. 

PERDIE:  See Parde. Spenser.  PER DIEM Per di"em. [L.]  By the day; substantively (chiefly U. S.), an allowance or amount of so much by the day. 

PERDIFOIL:  A deciduous plant; -- opposed to Ant: evergreen. J. Barton. 

PERDITIONABLE:  Capable of being ruined; worthy of perdition. [R.] Pollok. 

PERDIX:  A genus of birds including the common European partridge. Formerly the word was used in a much wider sense to include many allied genera. 

PERDUELLION:  Treason. 

PERDULOUS:  Lost; thrown away. [Obs.] Abp. Bramhall. 

PERDURABILITY:  Durability; lastingness. [Archaic] Chaucer. 

PERDURABLE:  Very durable; lasting; continuing long. [Archaic] Chaucer. Shak.  -- Per*dur"a*bly, adv. [Archaic]  PERDURANCE; PERDURATION Per*dur"ance, Per`du*ra"tion, n.  Long continuance. [Archaic] 

PERDURE:  To last or endure for a long time; to be perdurable or lasting. [Archaic] The mind perdures while its energizing may construct a thousand lines. Hickok. 

PERDY:  Truly. See Parde. [Obs.] Ah, dame! perdy ye have not done me right. Spenser. 

PERE:  A peer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PEREGAL:  Fully equal. [Obs.] Chaucer. "Peregal to the best." Spenser. 

PEREGRINATE:  To travel from place to place, or from one country to another; hence, to sojourn in foreign countries. 

PEREGRINATE:  Having traveled; foreign. [Obs.] Shak. 

PEREGRINATION:  A traveling from one country to another; a wandering; sojourn in foreign countries. "His peregrination abroad." Bacon. 

PEREGRINATOR:  One who peregrinates; one who travels about. 

PEREGRINE:  Foreign; not native; extrinsic or from without; exotic. [Spelt also pelegrine.] "Peregrine and preternatural heat." Bacon. Peregrine falcon (Zoöl.), a courageous and swift falcon (Falco peregrinus), remarkable for its wide distribution over all the continents. The adult plumage is dark bluish ash on the back, nearly black on the head and cheeks, white beneath, barred with black below the throat. Called also peregrine hawk, duck hawk, game hawk, and great-footed hawk. 

PEREGRINE:  The peregrine falcon. 

PEREL:  Apparel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PEREMPT:  To destroy; to defeat. [R.] Ayliffe. 

PEREMPTION:  A quashing; a defeating. [Obs.] 

PEREMPTORILY:  In a peremptory manner; absolutely; positively. Bacon. 

PEREMPTORINESS:  The quality of being peremptory; positiveness. 

PERENNIAL:  Continuing more than two years; as, a perennial steam, or root, or plant.  Syn.  -- Perpetual; unceasing; never failing; enduring; continual; permanent; uninterrupted. 

PERENNIAL:  A perennial plant; a plant which lives or continues more than two years, whether it retains its leaves in winter or not. 

PERENNIALLY:  In a perennial manner. 

PERENNIBRANCHIATA:  Those Batrachia which retain their gills through life, as the menobranchus. 

PERENNIBRANCHIATE:  Having branchæ, or gills, through life; -- said especially of certain Amphibia, like the menobranchus. Opposed to caducibranchiate.  2. (Zoöl.)  Belonging to the Perennibranchiata. 

PERENNITY:  The quality of being perennial. [R.] Derham. 

PERERRATION:  A wandering, or rambling, through various places. [R.] Howell. 

PERFECT:  Hermaphrodite; having both stamens and pistils; -- said of flower. Perfect cadence (Mus.), a complete and satisfactory close in harmony, as upon the tonic preceded by the dominant.  -- Perfect chord (Mus.), a concord or union of sounds which is perfectly coalescent and agreeable to the ear, as the unison, octave, fifth, and fourth; a perfect consonance; a common chord in its original position of keynote, third, fifth, and octave.  -- Perfect number (Arith.), a number equal to the sum of all its divisors; as, 28, whose aliquot parts, or divisors, are 14, 7, 4, 2, 1. See Abundant number, under Abundant. Brande & C.  -- Perfect tense (Gram.), a tense which expresses an act or state completed.  Syn.  -- Finished; consummate; complete; entire; faultless; blameless; unblemished. 

PERFECT:  The perfect tense, or a form in that tense. 

PERFECT:  To make perfect; to finish or complete, so as to leave nothing wanting; to give to anything all that is requisite to its nature and kind. God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfect in us. 1 John iv. 12. Inquire into the nature and properties of the things, . . . and thereby perfect our ideas of their distinct species. Locke. Perfecting press (Print.), a press in which the printing on both sides of the paper is completed in one passage through the machine.  Syn.  -- To finish; accomplish; complete; consummate. 

PERFECTER:  One who, or that which, makes perfect. "The . . . perfecter of our faith." Barrow. 

PERFECTIBILIAN:  A perfectionist. [R.] Ed. Rev. 

PERFECTIBILIST:  A perfectionist. See also Illuminati, 2. [R.] 

PERFECTIBILITY:  The quality or state of being perfectible. 

PERFECTIBLE:  Capable of becoming, or being made, perfect. 

PERFECTION:  To perfect. [Obs.] Foote. 

PERFECTIONAL:  Of or pertaining to perfection; characterized by perfection. [R.] Bp. Pearson. 

PERFECTIONATE:  To perfect. Dryden. 

PERFECTIONISM:  The doctrine of the Perfectionists. 

PERFECTIONIST:  One pretending to perfection; esp., one pretending to moral perfection; one who believes that persons may and do attain to moral perfection and sinlessness in this life. South. 

PERFECTIONMENT:  The act of bringing to perfection, or the state of having attained to perfection. [R.] I. Taylor. 

PERFECTIVE:  Tending or conducing to make perfect, or to bring to perfection; -- usually followed by of. "A perfective alteration." Fuller. Actions perfective of their natures. Ray. 

PERFECTIVELY:  In a perfective manner. 

PERFECTLY:  In a perfect manner or degree; in or to perfection; completely; wholly; throughly; faultlessly. "Perfectly divine." Milton. As many as touched were made perfectly whole. Matt. xiv. 36. 

PERFECTNESS:  The quality or state of being perfect; perfection. "Charity, which is the bond of perfectness." Col. iii. 14. 

PERFERVID:  Very fervid; too fervid; glowing; ardent. 

PERFICIENT:  Making or doing throughly; efficient; effectual. [R.] Blackstone. 

PERFICIENT:  One who performs or perfects a work; especially, one who endows a charity. [R.] 

PERFIDIOUSLY:  In a perfidious manner. 

PERFIDIOUSNESS:  The quality of being perfidious; perfidy. Clarendon. 

PERFIDY:  The act of violating faith or allegiance; violation of a promise or vow, or of trust reposed; faithlessness; teachery. The ambition and perfidy of tyrants. Macaulay. His perfidy to this sacred engagement. DeQuincey. 

PERFIT:  Perfect. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PERFIX:  To fix surely; to appoint. [Obs.] 

PERFLABLE:  Capable of being blown through. [Obs.] 

PERFLATE:  To blow through. [Obs.] Harvey. 

PERFLATION:  The act of perflating. [Obs.] Woodward. 

PERFOLIATE:  Having the basal part produced around the stem; -- said of leaves which the stem apparently passes directory through.  2. (Zoöl.)  Surrounded by a circle of hairs, or projections of any kind. 

PERFORATE:  To bore through; to pierce through with a pointed instrument; to make a hole or holes through by boring or piercing; to pierce or penetrate the surface of. Bacon.  PERFORATE; PERFORATED Per"fo*rate, Per"fo*ra`ted, a.  Pierced with a hole or holes, or with pores; having transparent dots resembling holes. 

PERFORATIVE:  Having power to perforate or pierce. 

PERFORATOR:  One who, or that which, perforates; esp., a cephalotome. 

PERFORCE:  By force; of necessary; at any rate. Shak. 

PERFORCE:  To force; to compel. [Obs.] 

PERFORM:  To do, execute, or accomplish something; to acquit one's self in any business; esp., to represent sometimes by action; to act a part; to play on a musical instrument; as, the players perform poorly; the musician performs on the organ. 

PERFORMABLE:  Admitting of being performed, done, or executed; practicable. 

PERFORMANCE:  The act of performing; the carrying into execution or action; execution; achievement; accomplishment; representation by action; as, the performance of an undertaking of a duty. Promises are not binding where the performance is impossible. Paley.  2. That which is performed or accomplished; a thing done or carried through; an achievement; a deed; an act; a feat; esp., an action of an elaborate or public character. "Her walking and other actual performances." Shak. "His musical performances." Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Completion; consummation; execution; accomplishment; achievement; production; work; act; action; deed; exploit; feat. 

PERFORMER:  One who performs, accomplishes, or fulfills; as, a good promiser, but a bad performer; especially, one who shows skill and training in any art; as, a performer of the drama; a performer on the harp. 

PERFRICATE:  To rub over. Bailey. 

PERFUMATORY:  Emitting perfume; perfuming. [R.] Sir E. Leigh. 

PERFUME:  To fill or impregnate with a perfume; to scent. And Carmel's flowery top perfumes the skies. Pope. 

PERFUMERY:  The art of preparing perfumes. 

PERFUNCTORILY:  In a perfunctory manner; formally; carelessly. Boyle. 

PERFUNCTORINESS:  The quality or state of being perfunctory. 

PERFUNCTURATE:  To perform in a perfunctory manner; to do negligently. [R.] 

PERFUSE:  To suffuse; to fill full or to excess. Harvey. 

PERFUSION:  The act of perfusing. 

PERFUSIVE:  Of a nature to flow over, or to spread through.  PERGAMENOUS; PERGAMENTACEOUS Per`ga*me"no*us, Per`ga*men*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. pergamena parchment. See Parchment.]  Like parchment. 

PERGOLA:  Lit., an arbor or bower; specif.: (Italian art)  An arbor or trellis treated architecturally, as with stone columns or similar massive structure. 

PERGOLO:  A continuous colonnade or arcade; -- applied to the decorative groups of windows, as in Venetian palazzi. 

PERHAPS:  By chance; peradventure; perchance; it may be. And pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee. Acts viii. 22.  PERI- Per"i-. Etym: [Gr.  A prefix used to signify around, by, near, over, beyond, or to give an intensive sense; as, perimeter, the measure around; perigee, point near the earth; periergy, work beyond what is needed; perispherical, quite spherical. 

PERI:  An imaginary being, male or female, like an elf or fairy, represented as a descendant of fallen angels, excluded from paradise till penance is accomplished. Moore. 

PERIAGUA:  See Pirogue. 

PERIANTHIUM:  The perianth. 

PERIAPT:  A charm worn as a protection against disease or mischief; an amulet. Coleridge. Now help, ye charming spells and periapts. Shak. 

PERIASTRAL:  Among or around the stars. "Comets in periastral passage." R. A. Proctor. 

PERIASTRON:  That point, in the real or apparent orbit of one star revolving around another, at which the former is nearest to the latter. 

PERIAUGER:  See Pirogue. W. Irving. 

PERIBLAST:  The protoplasmic matter which surrounds the entoblast, or cell nucleus, and undergoes segmentation.  -- Per`i*blas"tic, a. 

PERIBLEM:  Nascent cortex, or immature cellular bark. 

PERIBOLOS:  In ancient architecture, an inclosed court, esp., one surrounding a temple. 

PERIBRANCHIAL:  Surrounding the branchiæ; as, a peribranchial cavity. 

PERIBRANCHIAL:  Around the bronchi or bronchial tubes; as, the peribronchial lymphatics. 

PERICAMBIUM:  A layer of thin-walled young cells in a growing stem, in which layer certain new vessels originate.  PERICARDIAC; PERICARDIAL Per`i*car"di*ac, Per`i*car"di*al, a. (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to pericardium; situated around the heart. Pericardial fluid (Physiol.), a serous fluid of a pale yellow color contained in the pericardium. 

PERICARDIAN:  Pericardiac. 

PERICARDIC:  Pericardiac. 

PERICARDITUS:  Inflammation of the pericardium. Dunglison. 

PERICARDIUM:  The double baglike fold of serous membrane which incloses the heart.  Note: The inner layer is closely adherent to the outer surface of the heart, and is called the cardiac pericardium. The outer layer loosely incloses the heart and the adherent inner layer, and is called the parietal pericardium. At the base of the heart the two layers are continuous, and form a narrow closed cavity filled with fluid, in which the pulsations of the heart cause little friction. 

PERICARP:  The ripened ovary; the walls of the fruit. See Illusts. of Capsule, Drupe, and Legume.  PERICARPIAL; PERICARPIC Per`i*car"pi*al, Per`i*car"pic, a. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to a pericarp. 

PERICELLULAR:  Surrounding a cell; as, the pericellular lymph spaces surrounding ganglion cells. 

PERICHAETH:  The leafy involucre surrounding the fruit stalk of mosses; perichætium; perichete. 

PERICHAETIAL:  Of or pertaining to the perichæth. 

PERICHAETIUM:  Same as Perichæth. 

PERICHAETOUS:  Surrounded by setæ; -- said of certain earthworms (genus Perichætus). 

PERICHETE:  Same as Perichæth. 

PERICHONDRIAL:  Of or pertaining to the perichondrium; situated around cartilage. 

PERICHONDRITIS:  Inflammation of the perichondrium. 

PERICHONDRIUM:  The membrane of fibrous connective tissue which closely invests cartilage, except where covering articular surfaces. 

PERICHORDAL:  Around the notochord; as, a perichordal column. See Epichordal.  PERICLASE; PERICLASITE Per"i*clase, Per`i*cla"site, n. Etym: [Pref. peri- + Gr. (Min.)  A grayish or dark green mineral, consisting essentially of magnesia (magnesium oxide), occurring in granular forms or in isometric crystals. 

PERICLINIUM:  The involucre which surrounds the common receptacle in composite flowers. 

PERICLITATE:  To endanger. [Obs.] Periclitating, pardi! the whole family. Sterne. 

PERICOPE:  A selection or extract from a book; especially (Theol.), a selection from the Bible, appointed to be read in the churches or used as a text for a sermon. 

PERICRANIAL:  Of or pertaining to the pericranium. 

PERICRANIUM:  The periosteum which covers the cranium externally; the region around the cranium. 

PERICULOUS:  Dangerous; full of peril. [Obs.] 

PERICYSTITIS:  Inflammation of the tissues surrounding the bladder. 

PERIDERM:  The outer layer of bark.  2. (Zoöl.)  The hard outer covering of hydroids and other marine animals; the perisarc. 

PERIDIASTOLE:  The almost inappreciable time which elapses between the systole and the diastole of the heart. 

PERIDIUM:  The envelope or coat of certain fungi, such as the puffballs and earthstars. 

PERIDOT:  Chrysolite. 

PERIDOTITE:  An eruptive rock characterized by the presence of chrysolite (peridot). It also usually contains pyroxene, enstatite, chromite, etc. It is often altered to serpentine.  Note: The chief diamond deposits in South Africa occur in a more or less altered peridotite. 

PERIDROME:  The space between the columns and the wall of the cella, in a Greek or a Roman temple. 

PERIECIANS:  See Perioecians. 

PERIENTERON:  The primitive perivisceral cavity. 

PERIERGY:  A bombastic or labored style. [R.] 

PERIGANGLIONIC:  Surrounding a ganglion; as, the periganglionic glands of the frog. 

PERIGASTRIC:  Surrounding the stomach; -- applied to the body cavity of Bryozoa and various other Invertebrata. 

PERIGEAN:  Pertaining to the perigee. Perigean tides, those spring tides which occur soon after the moon passes her perigee.  PERIGEE; PERIGEUM Per"i*gee, Per`i*ge"um, n. Etym: [NL. perigeum, fr. Gr. périgée.] (Astron.)  That point in the orbit of the moon which is nearest to the earth; -- opposed to Ant: apogee. It is sometimes, but rarely, used of the nearest points of other orbits, as of a comet, a planet, etc. Called also epigee, epigeum. 

PERIGENESIS:  A theory which explains inheritance by the transmission of the type of growth force possessed by one generation to another. 

PERIGENETIC:  Of or pertaining to perigenesis. 

PERIGONE:  A sac which surrounds the generative bodies in the gonophore of a hydroid. 

PERIGONIUM:  Same as Perigone.  PERIGORD PIE Per"i*gord pie`. Etym: [From Périgord, a former province of France.]  A pie made of truffles, much esteemed by epicures. 

PERIGRAPH:  A careless or inaccurate delineation of anything. Etym: [R.] 

PERIGYNIUM:  Some unusual appendage about the pistil, as the bottle-shaped body in the sedges, and the bristles or scales in some other genera of the Sedge family, or Cyperaceæ. 

PERIGYNOUS:  Having the ovary free, but the petals and stamens borne on the calyx; -- said of flower such as that of the cherry or peach.  PERIHELION; PERIHELIUM Per`i*hel"ion, Per`i*he"li*um, n.; pl. Perihelia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Astron.)  That point of the orbit of a planet or comet which is nearest to the sun; -- opposed to Ant: aphelion. 

PERIL:  Danger; risk; hazard; jeopardy; exposure of person or property to injury, loss, or destruction. In perils of waters, in perils of robbers. 2 Cor. xi. 26. Adventure hard With peril great achieved. Milton. At, or On, one's peril, with risk or danger to one; at the hazard of. "On thy soul's peril." Shak.  Syn.  -- Hazard; risk; jeopardy. See Danger. 

PERIL:  To expose to danger; to hazard; to risk; as, to peril one's life. 

PERIL:  To be in danger. [Obs.] Milton. 

PERILLA:  A genus of labiate herbs, of which one species (Perilla ocimoides, or P. Nankinensis) is often cultivated for its purple or variegated foliage. 

PERILYMPH:  The fluid which surrounds the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear, and separates it from the walls of the chambers in which the labyrinth lies. 

PERILYMPHANGIAL:  Around, or at the side of, a lymphatic vessel. 

PERIMETER:  The outer boundary of a body or figure, or the sum of all the sides.  2. An instrument for determining the extent and shape of the field of vision.  PERIMETRIC; PERIMETRICAL Per`i*met"ric, Per`i*met"ric*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the perimeter, or to perimetry; as, a perimetric chart of the eye. 

PERIMETRY:  The art of using the perimeter; measurement of the field of vision. 

PERIMORPH:  A crystal of one species inclosing one of another species. See Endomorph. 

PERIMYSIUM:  The connective tissue sheath which surrounds a muscle, and sends partitions inwards between the bundles of muscular fibers. 

PERINAEUM:  See Perineum. 

PERINEAL:  Of or pertaining to the perineum. 

PERINEOPLASTY:  The act or process of restoring an injured perineum. 

PERINEORRHAPHY:  The operation of sewing up a ruptured perineum. 

PERINEPHRITIS:  Inflammation of the cellular tissue around the kidney.  -- Per`i*ne*phrit"ic, a. 

PERINEUM:  The region which is included within the outlet of the pelvis, and is traversed by the urinogenital canal and the rectum. 

PERINEURIAL:  Surrounding nerves or nerve fibers; of or pertaining to the perineurium. 

PERINEURIUM:  The connective tissue sheath which surrounds a bundle of nerve fibers. See Epineurium, and Neurilemma. 

PERINUCLEAR:  Of or pertaining to a nucleus; situated around a nucleus; as, the perinuclear protoplasm. 

PERIOD:  One of the great divisions of geological time; as, the Tertiary period; the Glacial period. See the Chart of Geology.  4. The termination or completion of a revolution, cycle, series of events, single event, or act; hence, a limit; a bound; an end; a conclusion. Bacon. So spake the archangel Michael; then paused, As at the world's great period. Milton. Evils which shall never end till eternity hath a period. Jer. Taylor. This is the period of my ambition. Shak.  5. (Rhet.)  A complete sentence, from one full stop to another; esp., a well-proportioned, harmonious sentence. "Devolved his rounded periods." Tennyson. Periods are beautiful when they are not too long. B. Johnson.  Note: The period, according to Heyse, is a compound sentence consisting of a protasis and apodosis; according to Becker, it is the appropriate form for the coördinate propositions related by antithesis or causality. Gibbs.  6. (Print.)  The punctuation point [.] that marks the end of a complete sentence, or of an abbreviated word.  7. (Math.)  One of several similar sets of figures or terms usually marked by points or commas placed at regular intervals, as in numeration, in the extraction of roots, and in circulating decimals.  8. (Med.)  The time of the exacerbation and remission of a disease, or of the paroxysm and intermission.  9. (Mus.)  A complete musical sentence. The period, the present or current time, as distinguished from all other times.  Syn.  -- Time; date; epoch; era; age; duration; limit; bound; end; conclusion; determination. 

PERIOD:  To put an end to. [Obs.] Shak. 

PERIOD:  To come to a period; to conclude. [Obs.] "You may period upon this, that," etc. Felthman. 

PERIODATE:  A salt of periodic acid. 

PERIODIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, the highest oxygen acid (HIO  PERIODIC; PERIODICAL Pe`ri*od"ic, Pe`ri*od"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. periodicus, Gr. périodique.]  1. Of or pertaining to a period or periods, or to division by periods. The periodicaltimes of all the satellites. Sir J. Herschel.  2. Performed in a period, or regular revolution; proceeding in a series of successive circuits; as, the periodical motion of the planets round the sun.  3. Happening, by revolution, at a stated time; returning regularly, after a certain period of time; acting, happening, or appearing, at fixed intervals; recurring; as, periodical epidemics. The periodic return of a plant's flowering. Henslow. To influence opinion through the periodical press. Courthope.  4. (Rhet.)  Of or pertaining to a period; constituting a complete sentence. Periodic comet (Astron.), a comet that moves about the sun in an elliptic orbit; a comet that has been seen at two of its approaches to the sun.  -- Periodic function (Math.), a function whose values recur at fixed intervals as the variable uniformly increases. The trigonomertic functions, as sin x, tan x, etc., are periodic functions. Exponential functions are also periodic, having an imaginary period, and the elliptic functions have not only a real but an imaginary period, and are hence called doubly periodic.  -- Periodic law (Chem.), the generalization that the properties of the chemical elements are periodic functions of their atomic wieghts. "In other words, if the elements are grouped in the order of their atomic weights, it will be found that nearly the same properties recur periodically throughout the entire series." The following tabular arrangement of the atomic weights shows the regular recurrence of groups (under I., II., III., IV., etc.), each consisting of members of the same natural family. The gaps in the table indicate the probable existence of unknown elements. TABLE OF THE PERIODIC LAW OF THE CHEMICAL ELEMENTS (The vertical columns contain the periodic groups) Series1{ 2{ 3{ 4{ 5{ 6{ 7{ 8{ 9{ 10{ 11{ 12{ --------------------------------------------------------- -----|I. II. III. IV. V. VI. VII. VIII. | RH4 RH3 RH3 RH |R2O RO R3O3 RO2 R2O5 RO3 R2O7 RO4 ----------------------------------------------- ---------------H 1 Li 7 Na 23 K 39 (Cu) 63 Rb 85.2 (Ag) (108) Cs 133 (-) (-) (Au) (197) (-) ---------------------------------------------- -------------------  Note: A similar relation had been enunciated in a crude way by Newlands; but the law in its effective form was developed and elaborated by Mendelejeff, whence it is sometimes called Mendelejeff's law. Important extensions of it were also made by L. Meyer. By this means Mendelejeff predicted with remarkable accuracy the hypothetical elements ekaboron, ekaluminium, and ekasilicon, afterwards discovered and named respectively scandium, gallium, and germanium.  -- Periodic star (Astron.), a variable star whose changes of brightness recur at fixed periods.  -- Periodic time of a heavenly body (Astron.), the time of a complete revolution of the body about the sun, or of a satellite about its primary. 

PERIODICAL:  A magazine or other publication which appears at stated or regular intervals. 

PERIODICALIST:  One who publishes, or writes for, a periodical. 

PERIODICALLY:  In a periodical manner. 

PERIODICALNESS:  Periodicity. 

PERIODICITY:  The quality or state of being periodical, or regularly recurrent; as, the periodicity in the vital phenomena of plants. Henfrey. 

PERIODIDE:  An iodide containing a higher proportion of iodine than any other iodide of the same substance or series. 

PERIODONTAL:  Surrounding the teeth. 

PERIODOSCOPE:  A table or other means for calculating the periodical functions of women. Dunglison.  PERIOECI; PERIOECIANS Per`i*oe"ci, Per`i*oe"cians, n. pl. Etym: [NL. perioeci, fr. Gr.  Those who live on the same parallel of latitude but on opposite meridians, so that it is noon in one place when it is midnight in the other. Compare Antoeci. 

PERIOPLE:  The external smooth horny layer of the hoof of the horse and allied animals. 

PERIOPLIC:  Of or pertaining to the periople; connected with the periople. 

PERIOSTEAL:  Situated around bone; of or pertaining to the periosteum. 

PERIOSTEUM:  The membrane of fibrous connective tissue which closely invests all bones except at the articular surfaces. 

PERIOSTITIS:  Inflammation of the periosteum. 

PERIOSTRACUM:  A chitinous membrane covering the exterior of many shells; -- called also epidermis. 

PERIOTIC:  Surrounding, or pertaining to the region surrounding, the internal ear; as, the periotic capsule.  -- n.  A periotic bone. 

PERIPATECIAN:  A peripatetic. [Obs.] 

PERIPATETICAL:  Peripatetic. [R.] Hales. 

PERIPATETICISM:  The doctrines or philosophical system of the peripatetics. See Peripatetic, n., 2. Lond. Sat. Rev. 

PERIPATUS:  A genus of lowly organized arthropods, found in South Africa, Australia, and tropical America. It constitutes the order Malacopoda. 

PERIPETALOUS:  Surrounding, or situated about, the petals. 

PERIPHERAL:  External; away from the center; as, the peripheral portion of the nervous system.  PERIPHERIC; PERIPHERICAL Per`i*pher"ic, Per`i*pher"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. périphérique. See Periphery.]  See Peripheral. 

PERIPHERY:  The circumference of a circle, ellipse, or other figure. 

PERIPHRASE:  The use of more words than are necessary to express the idea; a roundabout, or indirect, way of speaking; circumlocution. "To describe by enigmatic periphrases." De Quincey. 

PERIPHRASE:  To express by periphrase or circumlocution. 

PERIPHRASE:  To use circumlocution. 

PERIPHRASIS:  See Periphrase.  PERIPHRASTIC; PERIPHRASTICAL Per`i*phras"tic, Per`i*phras"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. périphrastique.]  Expressing, or expressed, in more words than are necessary; characterized by periphrase; circumlocutory. Periphrastic conjugation (Gram.), a conjugation formed by the use of the simple verb with one or more auxiliaries. 

PERIPHRASTICALLY:  With circumlocution. 

PERIPLAST:  Same as Periblast.  -- Per`i*plas"tic, a. Huxley.  PERIPNEUMONIA; PERIPNEUMONY Per`ip*neu*mo"ni*a, Per`ip*neu"mo*ny, n. Etym: [L. peripneumonia, Gr. péripneumonie. See Peri-, Pneumonia.] (Med.)  Pneumonia. (Obsoles.) 

PERIPNEUMONIC:  Of or pertaining to peripneumonia. 

PERIPROCT:  The region surrounding the anus, particularly of echinoderms. 

PERIPROCTITIS:  Inflammation of the tissues about the rectum. 

PERIPTERAL:  Having columns on all sides; -- said of an edifice. See Apteral. 

PERIPTEROUS:  Peripteral.  2. (Zoöl.)  Feathered all around. 

PERIPTERY:  The region surrounding a moving body, such as the wing of a bird or a gliding aëroplane, within which cyclic or vortical motion of the air occur. 

PERIQUE:  A kind of tobacco with medium-sized leaf, small stem, tough and gummy fiber, raised in Louisiana, and cured in its own juices, so as to be very dark colored, usually black. It is marketed in tightly wrapped rolls called carottes. 

PERISARC:  The outer, hardened integument which covers most hydroids. 

PERISCIAN:  Having the shadow moving all around.  PERISCIANS; PERISCII Pe*ris"cians, Pe*ris"ci*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Periscian.]  Those who live within a polar circle, whose shadows, during some summer days, will move entirely round, falling toward every point of the compass. 

PERISCOPE:  A general or comprehensive view. [R.] 

PERISCOPIC:  Viewing all around, or on all sides. Periscopic spectacles (Opt.), spectacles having concavo-convex or convexo-concave lenses with a considerable curvature corresponding to that of the eye, to increase the distinctness of objects viewed obliquely. 

PERISH:  To be destroyed; to pass away; to become nothing; to be lost; to die; hence, to wither; to waste away. I perish with hunger! Luke xv. 17. Grow up and perish, as the summer fly. Milton. The thoughts of a soul that perish in thinking. Locke. 

PERISH:  To cause perish. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PERISHABILITY:  Perishableness. 

PERISHABLE:  Liable to perish; subject to decay, destruction, or death; as, perishable goods; our perishable bodies. 

PERISHABLENESS:  The quality or state of being perishable; liability to decay or destruction. Locke. 

PERISHABLY:  In a perishable degree or manner. 

PERISHMENT:  The act of perishing. [R.] Udall. 

PERISOMA:  Same as Perisome. 

PERISOME:  The entire covering of an invertebrate animal, as echinoderm or coelenterate; the integument. 

PERISPERM:  The albumen of a seed, especially that portion which is formed outside of the embryo sac.  -- Per`i*sper"mic, a.  PERISPHERIC; PERISPHERICAL Per`i*spher"ic, Per`i*spher"ic*al, a.  Exactly spherical; globular. 

PERISPOMENON:  A word which has the circumflex accent on the last syllable. Goodwin. 

PERISPORE:  The outer covering of a spore. 

PERISSAD:  Odd; not even; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals whose valence is not divisible by two without a remainder. Contrasted with artiad. 

PERISSE:  To perish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PERISSODACTYL:  One of the Perissodactyla. 

PERISSODACTYLA:  A division of ungulate mammals, including those that have an odd number of toes, as the horse, tapir, and rhinoceros; -- opposed to Artiodactyla. 

PERISSOLOGICAL:  Redundant or excessive in words. [R.] 

PERISSOLOGY:  Superfluity of words. [R.] G. Campbell. 

PERISTALSIS:  Peristaltic contraction or action. 

PERISTALTIC:  Applied to the peculiar wormlike wave motion of the intestines and other similar structures, produced by the successive contraction of the muscular fibers of their walls, forcing their contents onwards; as, peristaltic movement.  -- Per`i*stal"tic*al*ly, adv. 

PERISTERIA:  A genus of orchidaceous plants. See Dove plant. 

PERISTERION:  The herb vervain (Verbena officinalis). 

PERISTERITE:  A variety of albite, whitish and slightly iridescent like a pigeon's neck. 

PERISTEROMORPHOUS:  Like or pertaining to the pigeons or Columbæ. 

PERISTEROPODOUS:  Having pigeonlike feet; -- said of those gallinaceous birds that rest on all four toes, as the curassows and megapods. 

PERISTOLE:  Peristaltic action, especially of the intestines. 

PERISTOMA:  Same as Peristome. 

PERISTOME:  The fringe of teeth around the orifice of the capsule of mosses. It consists of 4, 8, 16, 32, or 64 teeth, and may be either single or double.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The lip, or edge of the aperture, of a spiral shell. (b) The membrane surrounding the mouth of an invertebrate animal. 

PERISTOMIAL:  Of or pertaining to a peristome. 

PERISTOMIUM:  Same as Peristome. 

PERISTREPHIC:  Turning around; rotatory; revolving; as, a peristrephic painting (of a panorama). 

PERISTYLE:  A range of columns with their entablature, etc.; specifically, a complete system of columns, whether on all sides of a court, or surrounding a building, such as the cella of a temple. Used in the former sense, it gives name to the larger and inner court of a Roman dwelling, the peristyle. See Colonnade. 

PERISYSTOLE:  The interval between the diastole and systole of the heart. It is perceptible only in the dying. 

PERITE:  Skilled. [Obs.] 

PERITHECIUM:  An organ in certain fungi and lichens, surrounding and enveloping the masses of fructification. Henslow. 

PERITOMOUS:  Cleaving in more directions than one, parallel to the axis. 

PERITONAEUM:  Same as Peritoneum. 

PERITONEAL:  Of or pertaining to the peritoneum. 

PERITONEUM:  The smooth serous membrane which lines the cavity of the abdomen, or the whole body cavity when there is no diaphragm, and, turning back, surrounds the viscera, forming a closed, or nearly closed, sac. [Written also peritonæum.] 

PERITONITIS:  Inflammation of the peritoneum. 

PERITRACHEAL:  Surrounding the tracheæ. 

PERITRICHA:  A division of ciliated Infusoria having a circle of cilia around the oral disk and sometimes another around the body. It includes the vorticellas. See Vorticella. 

PERITROCHIUM:  The wheel which, together with the axle, forms the axis in peritrochio, which see under Axis. 

PERITROPOUS:  Peritropal. 

PERITYPHLITIS:  Inflammation of the connective tissue about the cæcum. 

PERIUTERINE:  Surrounding the uterus. 

PERIVASCULAR:  Around the blood vessels; as, perivascular lymphatics. 

PERIVERTEBRAL:  Surrounding the vertebræ. 

PERIVISCERAL:  Around the viscera; as, the perivisceral cavity. 

PERIVITELLINE:  Situated around the vitellus, or between the vitellus and zona pellucida of an ovum. 

PERIWIG:  A headdress of false hair, usually covering the whole head, and representing the natural hair; a wig. Shak. 

PERIWIG:  To dress with a periwig, or with false hair. Swift. 

PERIWINKLE:  Any small marine gastropod shell of the genus Littorina. The common European species (Littorina littorea), in Europe extensively used as food, has recently become naturalized abundantly on the American coast. See Littorina.  Note: In America the name is often applied to several large univalves, as Fulgur carica, and F. canaliculata. 

PERIWINKLE:  A trailing herb of the genus Vinca.  Note: The common perwinkle (Vinca minor) has opposite evergreen leaves and solitary blue or white flowers in their axils. In America it is often miscalled myrtle. See under Myrtle. 

PERJENET:  A kind of pear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PERJURE:  A perjured person. [Obs.] Shak. 

PERJURED:  Guilty of perjury; having sworn falsely; forsworn. Shak. "Perjured persons." 1 Tim. i. 10. "Their perjured oath." Spenser. 

PERJURER:  One who is guilty of perjury; one who perjures or forswears, in any sense.  PERJURIOUS; PERJUROUS Per*ju"ri*ous, Per"ju*rous, a. Etym: [L. perjuriosus, perjurus.]  Guilty of perjury; containing perjury. [Obs.] Quarles. B. Johnson. 

PERJURY:  At common law, a willfully false statement in a fact material to the issue, made by a witness under oath in a competent judicial proceeding. By statute the penalties of perjury are imposed on the making of willfully false affirmations.  Note: If a man swear falsely in nonjudicial affidavits, it is made perjury by statute in some jurisdictions in the United States. 

PERK:  To make trim or smart; to straighten up; to erect; to make a jaunty or saucy display of; as, to perk the ears; to perk up one's head. Cowper. Sherburne. 

PERK:  To exalt one's self; to bear one's self loftily. "To perk over them." Barrow. To perk it, to carry one's self proudly or saucily. Pope. 

PERK:  Smart; trim; spruce; jaunty; vain. "Perk as a peacock." Spenser. 

PERK:  To peer; to look inquisitively. Dickens. 

PERKIN:  A kind of weak perry. 

PERKINISM:  A remedial treatment, by drawing the pointed extremities of two rods, each of a different metal, over the affected part; tractoration, -- first employed by Dr. Elisha Perkins of Norwich, Conn. See Metallotherapy. 

PERKY:  Perk; pert; jaunty; trim. There amid perky larches and pines. Tennyson. 

PERLACEOUS:  Pearly; resembling pearl. 

PERLID:  Any insect of the genus Perla, or family Perlidæ. See Stone fly, under Stone. 

PERLITE:  Same as Pearlite. 

PERLITIC:  Relating to or resembling perlite, or pearlstone; as, the perlitic structure of certain rocks. See Pearlite. 

PERLOUS:  Perilous. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PERLUSTRATION:  The act of viewing all over. [Archaic] Howell. 

PERMANABLE:  Permanent; durable. [Obs.] Lydgate.  PERMANENCE; PERMANENCY Per"ma*nence, Per"ma*nen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. permanence.]  The quality or state of being permanent; continuance in the same state or place; duration; fixedness; as, the permanence of institutions; the permanence of nature. 

PERMANENT:  Continuing in the same state, or without any change that destroys form or character; remaining unaltered or unremoved; abiding; durable; fixed; stable; lasting; as, a permanent impression. Eternity stands permanent and fixed. Dryden. Permanent gases (Chem. & Physics), hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon monoxide; -- also called incondensible or incoercible gases, before their liquefaction in 1877.  -- Permanent way, the roadbed and superstructure of a finished railway; -- so called in distinction from the contractor's temporary way.  -- Permanent white (Chem.), barium sulphate (heavy spar), used as a white pigment or paint, in distinction from white lead, which tarnishes and darkens from the formation of the sulphide.  Syn.  -- Lasting; durable; constant. See Lasting. 

PERMANENTLY:  In a permanent manner. 

PERMANGANATE:  A salt of permanganic acid. Potassium permanganate. (Chem.) See Potassium permanganate, under Potassium. 

PERMANGANIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, one of the higher acids of manganese, HMnO4, which forms salts called permanganates. 

PERMANSION:  Continuance. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PERMEABILITY:  The quality or state of being permeable. Magnetic permeability (Physics), the specific capacity of a body for magnetic induction, or its conducting power for lines of magnetic force. Sir W. Thomson. 

PERMEABLE:  Capable of being permeated, or passed through; yielding passage; passable; penetrable; -- used especially of substances which allow the passage of fluids; as, wood is permeable to oil; glass is permeable to light. I. Taylor. 

PERMEABLY:  In a permeable manner. 

PERMEANCE:  Permeation; specif. (Magnetism),  the reciprocal of reluctance. 

PERMEANT:  Passing through; permeating. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PERMEATION:  The act of permeating, passing through, or spreading throughout, the pores or interstices of any substance. Here is not a mere involution only, but a spiritual permeation and inexistence. Bp. Hall. 

PERMIAN:  Belonging or relating to the period, and also to the formation, next following the Carboniferous, and regarded as closing the Carboniferous age and Paleozoic era.  -- n.  The Permian period. See Chart of Geology. 

PERMIANS:  A tribe belonging to the Finnic race, and inhabiting a portion of Russia. 

PERMISCIBLE:  Capable of being mixed. 

PERMISS:  A permitted choice; a rhetorical figure in which a thing is committed to the decision of one's opponent. [Obs.] Milton. 

PERMISSIBILITY:  The quality of being permissible; permissibleness; allowableness. 

PERMISSIBLE:  That may be permitted; allowable; admissible.  -- Per*mis"si*ble*ness, n.  -- Per*mis"si*bly, adv. 

PERMISSION:  The act of permitting or allowing; formal consent; authorization; leave; license or liberty granted. High permission of all-ruling Heaven. Milton. You have given me your permission for this address. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Leave; liberty; license.  -- Leave, Permission. Leave implies that the recipient may decide whether to use the license granted or not. Permission is the absence on the part of another of anything preventive, and in general, at least by implication, signifies approval. 

PERMISSIVELY:  In a permissive manner. 

PERMISTION:  The act of mixing; the state of being mingled; mixture. [Written also permixtion.] 

PERMIT:  To grant permission; to allow. 

PERMIT:  Warrant; license; leave; permission; specifically, a written license or permission given to a person or persons having authority; as, a permit to land goods subject to duty. 

PERMITTANCE:  The act of permitting; allowance; permission; leave. Milton. 

PERMITTEE:  One to whom a permission or permit is given. 

PERMITTER:  One who permits. A permitter, or not a hinderer, of sin. J. Edwards. 

PERMIX:  To mix; to mingle. [Obs.] 

PERMIXTION:  See Permission. 

PERMULATOR:  A special form of rotary converter with stationary commutator and rotating brushes, in which the exciting field is induced by the alternating current in a short-circuited magnetic core instead of being produced by an external magnet. 

PERMUTABLE:  Capable of being permuted; exchangeable.  -- Per*mut"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Per*mut"a*bly, adv. 

PERMUTATION:  Barter; exchange. Permutation lock, a lock in which the parts can be transposed or shifted, so as to require different arrangements of the tumblers on different occasions of unlocking. 

PERMUTER:  One who permutes. 

PERN:  To take profit of; to make profitable. [Obs.] Sylvester. 

PERN:  The honey buzzard. 

PERNANCY:  A taking or reception, as the receiving of rents or tithes in kind, the receiving of profits. Blackstone. 

PERNEL:  See Pimpernel. [Obs.] 

PERNICION:  Destruction; perdition. [Obs.] hudibras. 

PERNICIOUS:  Quick; swift (to burn). [R.] Milton. 

PERNICIOUS:  Having the quality of injuring or killing; destructive; very mischievous; baleful; malicious; wicked. Let this pernicious hour Stand aye accursed in the calendar. Shak. Pernicious to his health. Prescott.  Syn.  -- Destructive; ruinous; deadly; noxious; injurious; baneful; deleterious; hurtful; mischievous.  -- Per*ni"cious*ly, adv., -- Per*ni"cious*ness, n. 

PERNICITY:  Swiftness; celerity. [R.] Ray.  PERNICKETY PERNICKETTY { Per*nick"et*y Per*nick"et*ty }, a.  Finical or fussy; full of petty details. [Colloq.] 

PERNIO:  A chilblain. 

PERNOCTALIAN:  One who watches or keeps awake all night. 

PERNOCTATION:  The act or state of passing the whole night; a remaining all night. "Pernoctation in prayer." Jer. Taylor. 

PERNOR:  One who receives the profits, as of an estate.  PERNOT FURNACE Per"not fur"nace. Etym: [So called from Charles Pernot, its inventor.]  A reverberatory furnace with a circular revolving hearth, -- used in making steel.  PERNYI MOTH Per"ny*i moth". (Zoöl.)  A silk-producing moth (Attacus Pernyi) which feeds upon the oak. It has been introduced into Europe and America from China. 

PEROFSKITE:  A titanate of lime occurring in octahedral or cubic crystals. [Written also Perovskite.] 

PEROGUE:  See Pirogue. 

PERONATE:  A term applied to the stipes or stalks of certain fungi which are covered with a woolly substance which at length becomes powdery. Henslow. 

PERONEAL:  Of or pertaining to the fibula; in the region of the fibula. 

PERORATE:  To make a peroration; to harangue. [Colloq.] 

PERORATION:  The concluding part of an oration; especially, a final summing up and enforcement of an argument. Burke. 

PEROXIDATION:  Act, process, or result of peroxidizing; oxidation to a peroxide. 

PEROXIDE:  An oxide containing more oxygen than some other oxide of the same element. Formerly peroxides were regarded as the highest oxides. Cf. Per-, 2. 

PEROXIDIZE:  To oxidize to the utmost degree, so as to form a peroxide. 

PERPEND:  To weight carefully in the mind. [R.] "Perpend my words." Shak. 

PERPEND:  To attend; to be attentive. [R.] Shak. 

PERPENDER:  A large stone reaching through a wall so as to appear on both sides of it, and acting as a binder; -- called also perbend, perpend stone, and perpent stone. 

PERPENDICLE:  Something hanging straight down; a plumb line. [Obs.] 

PERPENDICULAR:  At right angles to a given line or surface; as, the line ad is perpendicular to the line bc. Perpendicular style (Arch.), a name given to the latest variety of English Gothic architecture, which prevailed from the close of the 14th century to the early part of the 16th; -- probably so called from the vertical style of its window mullions. 

PERPENDICULAR:  A line or plane falling at right angles on another line or surface, or making equal angles with it on each side. 

PERPENDICULARITY:  The quality or state of being perpendicular. 

PERPENDICULARLY:  In a perpendicular manner; vertically.  PERPEND STONE Per"pend stone`.  See Perpender. 

PERPENSION:  Careful consideration; pondering. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PERPENSITY:  Perpension. [Obs.]  PERPENT STONE Per"pent stone`.  See Perpender. 

PERPESSION:  Suffering; endurance. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

PERPETRABLE:  Capable of being perpetrated. R. North. 

PERPETRATE:  To do or perform; to carry through; to execute, commonly in a bad sense; to commit (as a crime, an offense); to be guilty of; as, to perpetrate a foul deed. What the worst perpetrate, or best endure. Young. 

PERPETRATOR:  One who perpetrates; esp., one who commits an offense or crime. 

PERPETUABLE:  Capable of being perpetuated or continued. Varieties are perpetuable, like species. Gray. 

PERPETUAL:  Neverceasing; continuing forever or for an unlimited time; unfailing; everlasting; continuous. Unto the kingdom of perpetual night. Shak. Perpetual feast of nectared sweets. Milton. Circle of perpetual apparition, or occultation. See under Circle.  -- Perpetual calendar, a calendar so devised that it may be adjusted for any month or year.  -- Perpetual curacy (Ch. of Eng.), a curacy in which all the tithes are appropriated, and no vicarage is endowed. Blackstone.  -- Perpetual motion. See under Motion.  -- Perpetual screw. See Endless screw, under Screw.  Syn.  -- Continual; unceasing; endless; everlasting; incessant; constant; eternal. See Constant.  PERPETUAL CALENDAR Per*pet"u*al cal"en*dar.  A calendar that can be used perpetually or over a wide range of years. That of Capt. Herschel covers, as given below, dates from 1750 to 1961 only, but is capable of indefinite extension.  PERPETUAL CALENDAR Day of the monthJan. Oct.Apr. July Jan.Sept. Dec.JuneFeb. Mar. Nov.Aug. Feb.MayDay of the Week 1815 2229 2916 2330 31017 2431 41118 25 51219 26 61320 27 @71421 28 To find the day of the week corresponding to any date, find the small letter directly under the month and opposite the day of the month; the same small letter also appears in the vertical column that contains the number of the year, and if the line in which it stands is followed out to the right, the day of the week is found. Thus, the small letter under March and opposite 18 is b; b appears again directly over 1904, and at its right is the word Friday. March 18 fell on Friday in 1904, and also in 1898, 1892, etc.  The calendar has other uses, as for finding the months which begin on Sunday in  a particular year, etc. |1753  |1754   |1755   |1750   |1751   |1757   |*1752 |1759  |1765 |*1760  |1761   |*1756  |1763 |1758 

PERPETUALLY:  In a perpetual manner; constantly; continually. The Bible and Common Prayer Book in the vulgar tongue, being perpetually read in churches, have proved a kind of standard for language. Swift. 

PERPETUALTY:  The state or condition of being perpetual. [Obs.] Testament of Love. 

PERPETUANCE:  Perpetuity. [Obs.] 

PERPETUATE:  To make perpetual; to cause to endure, or to be continued, indefinitely; to preserve from extinction or oblivion; to eternize. Addison. Burke. 

PERPETUATE:  Made perpetual; perpetuated. [R.] Southey. 

PERPETUATION:  The act of making perpetual, or of preserving from extinction through an endless existence, or for an indefinite period of time; continuance. Sir T. Browne. 

PERPLEX:  Intricate; difficult. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

PERPLEXED:  Entangled, involved, or confused; hence, embarrassd; puzzled; doubtful; anxious.  -- Per*plex"ed*ly, adv.  -- Per*plex"ed*ness, n. 

PERPLEXING:  Embarrassing; puzzling; troublesome. "Perplexing thoughts." Milton. 

PERPLEXITY:  The quality or state of being perplexed or puzzled; complication; intricacy; entanglement; distraction of mind through doubt or difficulty; embarrassment; bewilderment; doubt. By their own perplexities involved, They ravel more. Milton. 

PERPLEXIVENESS:  The quality of being perplexing; tendency to perplex. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PERPLEXLY:  Perplexedly. [Obs.] Milton. 

PERPOTATION:  The act of drinking excessively; a drinking bout. [Obs.] 

PERQUISITE:  Things gotten by a man's own industry, or purchased with his own money, as opposed to things which come to him by descent. Mozley & W. 

PERQUISITED:  Supplied with perquisites. [Obs.] "Perquisited varlets frequent stand." Savage. 

PERQUISITION:  A thorough inquiry of search. [R.] Berkeley. 

PERRADIAL:  Situated around the radii, or radial tubes, of a radiate. 

PERRIE:  Precious stones; jewels. [Obs.] [Written also perre, perrye, etc.] Chaucer. 

PERRIER:  A short mortar used formerly for throwing stone shot. Hakluyt. 

PERRON:  An out-of-door flight of steps, as in a garden, leading to a terrace or to an upper story; -- usually applied to mediævel or later structures of some architectural pretensions. 

PERROQUET:  See Paroquet, Parakeet. 

PERRUQUE:  See Peruke. 

PERRUQUIER:  A marker of perukes or wigs. 

PERRY:  A fermented liquor made from pears; pear cider. Mortimer. 

PERRY:  A suddent squall. See Pirry. [Obs.] 

PERS:  Light blue; grayish blue; -- a term applied to different shades at different periods.  -- n.  A cloth of sky-blue color. [Obs.] "A long surcoat of pers." Chaucer. 

PERSALT:  A term formerly given to the salts supposed to be formed respectively by neutralizing acids with certain peroxides. [Obsoles.] 

PERSANT:  Piercing. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PERSCRUTATION:  A thorough searching; a minute inquiry or scrutiny. Carlyle 

PERSECOT:  See Persicot. 

PERSECUTOR:  One who persecutes, or harasses. Shak. 

PERSECUTRIX:  A woman who persecutes. 

PERSEID:  One of a group of shooting stars which appear yearly about the 10th of August, and cross the heavens in paths apparently radiating from the constellation Perseus. They are beleived to be fragments once connected with a comet visible in 1862. 

PERSEUS:  A Grecian legendary hero, son of Jupiter and Danaë, who slew the Gorgon Medusa.  2. (Astron.)  A consellation of the northern hemisphere, near Taurus and Cassiopea. It contains a star cluster visible to the naked eye as a nebula. 

PERSEVER:  To persevere. [Obs.] 

PERSEVERANCE:  Continuance in a state of grace until it is succeeded by a state of glory; sometimes called final perseverance, and the perseverance of the saints. See Calvinism.  Syn.  -- Persistence; steadfastness; constancy; steadiness; pertinacity. 

PERSEVERANT:  Persevering. [R.] "Perseverant faith." Whitby.  -- Per`se*ver"ant*ly, adv. [R.] 

PERSEVERE:  To persist in any business or enterprise undertaken; to pursue steadily any project or course begun; to maintain a purpose in spite of counter influences, opposition, or discouragement; not to give or abandon what is undertaken. Thrice happy, if they know Their happiness, and persevere upright. Milton.  Syn.  -- To Persevere, Continue, Persist. The idea of not laying aside is common to these words. Continue is the generic term, denoting simply to do as one has done hitherto. To persevere is to continue in a given course in spite of discouragements, etc., from a desire to obtain our end. To persist is to continue from a determination of will not to give up. Persist is frequently used in a bad sense, implying obstinacy in pursuing an unworthy aim. 

PERSEVERING:  Characterized by perseverance; persistent.  -- Per`se*ver"ing*ly, adv. 

PERSIAN:  Of or pertaining to Persia, to the Persians, or to their language. Persian berry, the fruit of Rhamnus infectorius, a kind of buckthorn, used for dyeing yellow, and imported chiefly from Trebizond.  -- Persian cat. (Zoöl.) Same as Angora cat, under Angora.  -- Persian columns (Arch.), columns of which the shaft represents a Persian slave; -- called also Persians. See Atlantes.  -- Persian drill (Mech.), a drill which is turned by pushing a nut back and forth along a spirally grooved drill holder.  -- Persian fire (Med.), malignant pustule.  -- Persian powder. See Insect powder, under Insect.  -- Persian red. See Indian red (a), under Indian.  -- Persian wheel, a noria; a tympanum. See Noria. 

PERSIAN:  See Persian columns, under Persian, a. 

PERSIC:  Of or relating to Persia.  -- n.  The Persian language. 

PERSICARIA:  See Lady's thumb. 

PERSICO:  = Persicot. 

PERSICOT:  A cordial made of the kernels of apricots, nectarines, etc., with refined spirit. 

PERSIENNE:  Properly, printed calico, whether Oriental or of fanciful design with flowers, etc., in Western work. Hence, as extended in English, material of a similar character. 

PERSIENNES:  Window blinds having movable slats, similar to Venetian blinds. 

PERSIFLAGE:  Frivolous or bantering talk; a frivolous manner of treating any subject, whether serious or otherwise; light raillery. Hannah More. 

PERSIFLEUR:  One who indulges in persiflage; a banterer; a quiz. Carlyle. 

PERSIMMON:  An American tree (Diospyros Virginiana) and its fruit, found from New York southward. The fruit is like a plum in appearance, but is very harsh and astringent until it has been exposed to frost, when it becomes palatable and nutritious. Japanese persimmon, Diospyros Kaki and its red or yellow edible fruit, which outwardly resembles a tomato, but contains a few large seeds. 

PERSIS:  A kind of coloring matter obtained from lichens. 

PERSISM:  A Persian idiom. 

PERSIST:  To stand firm; to be fixed and unmoved; to stay; to continue steadfastly; especially, to continue fixed in a course of conduct against opposing motives; to persevere; -- sometimes conveying an unfavorable notion, as of doggedness or obstinacy. If they persist in pointing their batteries against particular persons, no laws of war forbid the making reprisals. Addison. Some positive, persisting fops we know, Who, if once wrong, will needs be always so. Pope. That face persists. It floats up; it turns over in my mind. Mrs. Browning.  Syn.  -- See Persevere, and Insist.  PERSISTENCE; PERSISTENCY Per*sist"ence, Per*sist"en*cy, n. Etym: [See Persistent.]  1. The quality or state of being persistent; staying or continuing quality; hence, in an unfavorable sense, doggedness; obstinacy.  2. The continuance of an effect after the cause which first gave rise to it is removed; as: (a) (Physics)  The persistence of motion. (b) (Physiol.) Visual persistence, or persistence of the visual impression; auditory persistence, etc. 

PERSISTENT:  Remaining beyond the period when parts of the same kind sometimes fall off or are absorbed; permanent; as, persistent teeth or gills; a persistent calyx; -- opposed to deciduous, and caducous. 

PERSISTENTLY:  In a persistent manner. 

PERSISTING:  Inclined to persist; tenacious of purpose; persistent.  -- Per*sist"ing*ly, adv. 

PERSISTIVE:  See Persistent. Shak. 

PERSOLVE:  To pay wholly, or fully. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

PERSON:  Among Trinitarians, one of the three subdivisions of the Godhead (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost); an hypostasis. "Three persons and one God." Bk. of Com. Prayer.  7. (Gram.)  One of three relations or conditions (that of speaking, that of being spoken to, and that of being spoken of) pertaining to a noun or a pronoun, and thence also to the verb of which it may be the subject.  Note: A noun or pronoun, when representing the speaker, is said to be in the first person; when representing what is spoken to, in the second person; when representing what is spoken of, in the third person.  8. (Biol.)  A shoot or bud of a plant; a polyp or zooid of the compound Hydrozoa Anthozoa, etc.; also, an individual, in the narrowest sense, among the higher animals. Haeckel. True corms, composed of united personæ . . . usually arise by gemmation, . . . yet in sponges and corals occasionally by fusion of several originally distinct persons. Encyc. Brit. Artificial, or Fictitious, person (Law), a corporation or body politic. blackstone.  -- Natural person (Law), a man, woman, or child, in distinction from a corporation.  -- In person, by one's self; with bodily presence; not by representative. "The king himself in person is set forth." Shak.  -- In the person of, in the place of; acting for. Shak. 

PERSON:  To represent as a person; to personify; to impersonate. [Obs.] Milton. 

PERSONA:  Same as Person, n., 8. 

PERSONAL:  Denoting person; as, a personal pronoun. Personal action (Law), a suit or action by which a man claims a debt or personal duty, or damages in lieu of it; or wherein he claims satisfaction in damages for an injury to his person or property, or the specific recovery of goods or chattels; -- opposed to real action.  -- Personal equation. (Astron.) See under Equation.  -- Personal estate or property (Law), movables; chattels; -- opposed to real estate or property. It usually consists of things temporary and movable, including all subjects of property not of a freehold nature.  -- Personal identity (Metaph.), the persistent and continuous unity of the individual person, which is attested by consciousness.  -- Personal pronoun (Gram.), one of the pronouns I, thou, he, she, it, and their plurals.  -- Personal representatives (Law), the executors or administrators of a person deceased.  -- Personal rights, rights appertaining to the person; as, the rights of a personal security, personal liberty, and private property.  -- Personal tithes. See under Tithe.  -- Personal verb (Gram.), a verb which is modified or inflected to correspond with the three persons. 

PERSONAL:  A movable; a chattel. 

PERSONALISM:  The quality or state of being personal; personality. [R.] 

PERSONALITY:  That quality of a law which concerns the condition, state, and capacity of persons. Burrill. 

PERSONALIZE:  To make personal. "They personalize death." H. Spencer. 

PERSONALTY:  Personal property, as distinguished from realty or real property. 

PERSONATE:  To celebrate loudly; to extol; to praise. [Obs.] In fable, hymn, or song so personating Their gods ridiculous. Milton. 

PERSONATE:  To play or assume a character. 

PERSONATE:  Having the throat of a bilabiate corolla nearly closed by a projection of the base of the lower lip; masked, as in the flower of the snapdragon. 

PERSONATION:  The act of personating, or conterfeiting the person or character of another. 

PERSONATOR:  One who personates. "The personators of these actions." B. Jonson. 

PERSONEITY:  Personality. [R.] Coleridge. 

PERSONIFICATION:  A figure of speech in which an inanimate object or abstract idea is represented as animated, or endowed with personality; prosopopas, the floods clap their hands. "Confusion heards his voice." Milton. 

PERSONIFIER:  One who personifies. 

PERSONIZE:  To personify. [R.] Milton has personized them. J. Richardson. 

PERSONNEL:  The body of persons employed in some public service, as the army, navy, etc.; -- distinguished from matériel. 

PERSPECTOGRAPH:  An instrument for obtaining, and transferring to a picture, the points and outlines of objects, so as to represent them in their proper geometrical relations as viewed from some one point. 

PERSPECTOGRAPHY:  The science or art of delineating objects according to the laws of perspective; the theory of perspective. 

PERSPICABLE:  Discernible. [Obs.] Herbert. 

PERSPICACITY:  The state of being perspicacious; acuteness of sight or of intelligence; acute discernment. Sir T. Browne. 

PERSPICACY:  Perspicacity. [Obs.] 

PERSPICIENCE:  The act of looking sharply. [Obs.] Bailey. 

PERSPICIL:  An optical glass; a telescope. [Obs.] Crashaw. 

PERSPIRABILITY:  The quality or state of being perspirable. 

PERSPIRATIVE:  Performing the act of perspiration; perspiratory. 

PERSPIRATORY:  Of, pertaining to, or producing, perspiration; as, the perspiratory ducts. 

PERSPIRE:  To excrete matter through the skin; esp., to excrete fluids through the pores of the skin; to sweat.  2. To be evacuated or excreted, or to exude, through the pores of the skin; as, a fluid perspires. 

PERSPIRE:  To emit or evacuate through the pores of the skin; to sweat; to excrete through pores. Firs . . . perspire a fine balsam of turpentine. Smollett. 

PERSTREPEROUS:  Noisy; obstreperous. [Obs.] Ford. 

PERSUADABLE:  That may be persuaded.  -- Per*suad"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Per*suad"a*bly, adv. 

PERSUADE:  To use persuasion; to plead; to prevail by persuasion. Shak. 

PERSUADE:  Persuasion. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

PERSUADED:  Prevailed upon; influenced by argument or entreaty; convinced.  -- Per*suad"ed*ly, adv.  -- Per*suad"ed*ness, n. 

PERSUADER:  One who, or that which, persuades or influences. "Powerful persuaders." Milton. 

PERSUASIBILITY:  Capability of being persuaded. Hawthorne. 

PERSUASIVE:  Tending to persuade; having the power of persuading; as, persuasive eloquence. "Persuasive words." Milton. 

PERSUASIVE:  That which persuades; an inducement; an incitement; an exhortation.  -- Per*sua"sive*ly, adv.  -- Per*sua"sive*ness, n. 

PERSUASORY:  Persuasive. Sir T. Browne. 

PERSULPHATE:  A sulphate of the peroxide of any base. [R.] 

PERSULPHIDE:  A sulphide containing more sulphur than some other compound of the same elements; as, iron pyrites is a persulphide; -- formerly called persulphuret. 

PERSULPHOCYANATE:  A salt of persulphocyanic acid. [R.] 

PERSULPHOCYANIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a yellow crystalline substance (called also perthiocyanic acid), analogous to sulphocyanic acid, but containing more sulphur. 

PERSULPHOCYANOGEN:  An orange-yellow substance, produced by the action of chlorine or boiling dilute nitric acid and sulphocyanate of potassium; -- called also pseudosulphocyanogen, perthiocyanogen, and formerly sulphocyanogen. 

PERSULPHURET:  A persulphide. [Obs.] 

PERT:  To behave with pertness. [Obs.] Gauden. 

PERTEREBRATION:  The act of boring through. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

PERTHIOCYANOGEN:  Same as Persulphocyanogen. 

PERTHITE:  A kind of feldspar consisting of a laminated intertexture of albite and orthoclase, usually of different colors.  -- Per*thit"ic, a. 

PERTINACITY:  The quality or state of being pertinacious; obstinacy; perseverance; persistency. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- See Obstinacy. 

PERTINACY:  The quality or state of being pertinent; pertinence. [Obs.] 

PERTINACY:  Pertinacity. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PERTINATE:  Pertinacious. [Obs.] 

PERTINATELY:  Pertinaciously. [Obs.]  PERTINENCE; PERTINENCY Per"ti*nence, Per"ti*nen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pertinence. See Pertinent.]  The quality or state of being pertinent; justness of relation to the subject or matter in hand; fitness; appositeness; relevancy; suitableness. The fitness and pertinency of the apostle's discourse. Bentley. 

PERTLY:  In a pert manner. 

PERTNESS:  The quality or state of being pert. 

PERTRANSIENT:  Passing through or over. [R.] 

PERTURBABILITY:  The quality or state of being perturbable. 

PERTURBABLE:  Liable to be perturbed or agitated; liable to be disturbed or disquieted. 

PERTURBANCE:  Disturbance; perturbation. [R.] "Perturbance of the mind." Sharp. 

PERTURBATE:  To perturb. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PERTURBATE:  Perturbed; agitated. [R.] 

PERTURBATION:  A disturbance in the regular elliptic or other motion of a heavenly body, produced by some force additional to that which causes its regular motion; as, the perturbations of the planets are caused by their attraction on each other. Newcomb. 

PERTURBATIONAL:  Of or pertaining to perturbation, esp. to the perturbations of the planets. "The perturbational theory." Sir J. Herschel. 

PERTURBATIVE:  Tending to cause perturbation; disturbing. Sir J. Herschel. 

PERTURBATOR:  A perturber. [R.] 

PERTURBED:  Agitated; disturbed; troubled. Shak.  -- Per*turb"ed*ly, adv. 

PERTURBER:  One who, or that which, perturbs, or cause perturbation. 

PERTUSATE:  Pierced at the apex.  PERTUSE; PERTUSED Per*tuse", Per*tused", a. Etym: [L. pertusus, p.p. of pertundere to beat or thrust through, to bore through; per + tundere to beat: cf. F. pertus. Cf. Pierce.]  Punched; pierced with, or having, holes. 

PERTUSION:  The act of punching or piercing with a pointed instrument; as, pertusion of a vein. [R.] Arbuthnot.  2. A punched hole; a perforation. Bacon. 

PERTUSSIS:  The whooping cough. 

PERUKE:  A wig; a periwig. 

PERUKE:  To dress with a peruke. [R.] 

PERULA:  One of the scales of a leaf bud.  2. (Bot.)  A pouchlike portion of the perianth in certain orchides. 

PERULE:  Same as Perula. 

PERUSER:  One who peruses. 

PERUVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Peru, in South America.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Peru. Peruvian balsam. See Balsam of Peru, under Balsam.  -- Peruvian bark, the bitter bark of trees of various species of Cinchona. It acts as a powerful tonic, and is a remedy for malarial diseases. This property is due to several alkaloids, as quinine, cinchonine, etc., and their compounds; -- called also Jesuit's bark, and cinchona. See Cinchona. 

PERVASION:  The act of pervading, passing, or spreading through the whole extent of a thing. Boyle. 

PERVASIVE:  Tending to pervade, or having power to spread throughout; of a pervading quality. "Civilization pervasive and general." M. Arnold. 

PERVERSED:  Turned aside. [Obs.] 

PERVERSEDLY:  Perversely. [Obs.] 

PERVERSELY:  In a perverse manner. 

PERVERSENESS:  The quality or state of being perverse. "Virtue hath some perverseness." Donne. 

PERVERSION:  The act of perverting, or the state of being perverted; a turning from truth or right; a diverting from the true intent or object; a change to something worse; a turning or applying to a wrong end or use. "Violations and perversions of the laws." Bacon. 

PERVERSITY:  The quality or state of being perverse; perverseness. 

PERVERSIVE:  Tending to pervert. 

PERVERT:  To become perverted; to take the wrong course. [R.] Testament of Love. 

PERVERT:  One who has been perverted; one who has turned to error, especially in religion; -- opposed to convert. See the Synonym of Convert. That notorious pervert, Henry of Navarre. Thackeray. 

PERVERTER:  One who perverts (a person or thing). "His own parents his perverters." South. "A perverter of his law." Bp. Stillingfleet. 

PERVERTIBLE:  Capable of being perverted. 

PERVESTIGATE:  To investigate thoroughly. [Obs.] 

PERVESTIGATION:  Thorough investigation. [Obs.] Chillingworth. 

PERVIAL:  Pervious. [Obs.] -- Per"vi*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] Chapman. 

PERVICACIOUS:  Obstinate; willful; refractory. [Obs.] -- Per`vi*ca"cious*ly, adv.  -- Per`vi*ca"cious*ness, n. [Obs.] 

PERVICACITY:  Obstinacy; pervicaciousness. [Obs.] Bentley. 

PERVICACY:  Pervicacity. [Obs.] 

PERVIGILATION:  Careful watching. [Obs.] 

PERVIOUS:  Open; -- used synonymously with perforate, as applied to the nostrils or birds. 

PERVIOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being pervious; as, the perviousness of glass. Boyle. 

PERVIS:  See Parvis. 

PERY:  A pear tree. See Pirie. [Obs.] 

PES:  The distal segment of the hind limb of vertebrates, including the tarsus and foot. 

PESADE:  The motion of a horse when, raising his fore quarters, he keeps his hind feet on the ground without advancing; rearing. 

PESAGE:  A fee, or toll, paid for the weighing of merchandise. 

PESANE:  See Pusane. 

PESANTED:  Made heavy or dull; debased. [Obs.] "Pesanted to each lewd thought's control." Marston. 

PESCHITO:  See Peshito. 

PESE:  A pea. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PESETA:  A Spanish silver coin, and money of account, equal to about nineteen cents, and divided into 100 centesimos.  PESHITO; PESHITTO Pe*shit"o, Pe*shit"to, n. Etym: [Syriac peshîtâ simple.]  The earliest Syriac version of the Old Testament, translated from Hebrew; also, the incomplete Syriac version of the New Testament. [Written also peschito.] 

PESKY:  Pestering; vexatious; troublesome. Used also as an intensive. [Colloq. & Low, U.S.] Judd. 

PESO:  A Spanish dollar; also, an Argentine, Chilian, Colombian, etc., coin, equal to from 75 cents to a dollar; also, a pound weight. 

PESSIMISM:  The opinion or doctrine that everything in nature is ordered for or tends to the worst, or that the world is wholly evil; -- opposed to Ant: optimism.  2. A disposition to take the least hopeful view of things. 

PESSIMIST:  One who advocates the doctrine of pessimism; -- opposed to Ant: optimist.  2. One who looks on the dark side of things.  PESSIMIST; PESSIMISTIC Pes"si*mist, Pes`si*mis"tic, a. (Metaph.)  Of or pertaining to pessimism; characterized by pessimism; gloomy; foreboding. "Giving utterance to pessimistic doubt." Encyc. Brit. 

PESSIMISTICAL:  Pessimistic. 

PESSIMIZE:  To hold or advocate the doctrine of pessimism. London Sat. Rev. 

PESSULUS:  A delicate bar of cartilage connecting the dorsal and ventral extremities of the first pair of bronchial cartilages in the syrinx of birds. 

PESTALOZZIAN:  Belonging to, or characteristic of, a system of elementary education which combined manual training with other instruction, advocated and practiced by Jean Henri Pestalozzi (1746-1827), a Swiss teacher.  -- n.  An advocate or follower of the system of Pestalozzi. 

PESTALOZZIANISM:  The system of education introduced by Pestalozzi. 

PESTERER:  One who pesters or harasses. 

PESTERMENT:  The act of pestering, or the state of being pestered; vexation; worry. "The trouble and pesterment of children." B. Franklin. 

PESTEROUS:  Inclined to pester. Also, vexatious; encumbering; burdensome. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PESTFUL:  Pestiferous. "After long and pestful calms." Coleridge. 

PESTHOUSE:  A house or hospital for persons who are infected with any pestilential disease. 

PESTIDUCT:  That which conveys contagion or infection. [Obs.] Donne. 

PESTIFEROUSLY:  In a pestiferuos manner. 

PESTILENT:  Pestilential; noxious; pernicious; mischievous. "Corrupt and pestilent." Milton. "What a pestilent knave is this same!" Shak. 

PESTILENTIALLY:  Pestilently. 

PESTILENTIOUS:  Pestilential. [Obs.] 

PESTILENTLY:  In a pestilent manner; mischievously; destructively. "Above all measure pestilently noisome." Dr. H. More. 

PESTILENTNESS:  The quality of being pestilent. 

PESTILLATION:  The act of pounding and bruising with a pestle in a mortar. Sir T. Browne. 

PESTLE:  To pound, pulverize, bray, or mix with a pestle, or as with a pestle; to use a pestle. 

PET:  A slight fit of peevishness or fretfulness. "In a pet she started up." Tennyson. 

PET:  Petted; indulged; admired; cherished; as, a pet child; a pet lamb; a pet theory. Some young lady's pet curate. F. Harrison. Pet cock. Etym: [Perh. for petty cock.] (Mach.) A little faucet in a water pipe or pump, to let air out, or at the end of a steam cylinder, to drain it. 

PET:  To treat as a pet; to fondle; to indulge; as, she was petted and spoiled. 

PET:  To be a pet. Feltham. 

PETAL:  One of the leaves of the corolla, or the colored leaves of a flower. See Corolla, and Illust. of Flower.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the expanded ambulacra which form a rosette on the black of certain Echini. 

PETALED:  Having petals; as, a petaled flower; -- opposed to Ant: apetalous, and much used in compounds; as, one-petaled, three- petaled, etc. 

PETALIFEROUS:  Bearing petals. 

PETALIFORM:  Having the form of a petal; petaloid; petal-shaped. 

PETALINE:  Pertaining to a petal; attached to, or resembling, a petal. 

PETALISM:  A form of sentence among the ancient Syracusans by which they banished for five years a citizen suspected of having dangerous influence or ambition. It was similar to the ostracism in Athens; but olive leaves were used instead of shells for ballots. 

PETALITE:  A rare mineral, occurring crystallized and in cleavable masses, usually white, or nearly so, in color. It is a silicate of aluminia and lithia. 

PETALODY:  The metamorphosis of various floral organs, usually stamens, into petals. 

PETALOID:  Petaline. 

PETALOIDEOUS:  Having the whole or part of the perianth petaline. Petaloideous division, that division of endogenous plants in which the perianth is wholly or partly petaline, embracing the Liliaceæ, Orchidaceæ, Amaryllideæ, etc. 

PETALOSTICHA:  An order of Echini, including the irregular sea urchins, as the spatangoids. See Spatangoid. 

PETALOUS:  Having petals; petaled; -- opposed to Ant: apetalous. 

PETALUM:  A petal. 

PETAR:  See Petard. [Obs.] "Hoist with his own petar." Shak. 

PETARD:  A case containing powder to be exploded, esp. a conical or cylindrical case of metal filled with powder and attached to a plank, to be exploded against and break down gates, barricades, drawbridges, etc. It has been superseded.  PETARDEER; PETARDIER Pet`ar*deer", Pet`ar*dier", n. Etym: [F. pétardier.] (Mil.)  One who managed a petard. 

PETASUS:  The winged cap of Mercury; also, a broad-brimmed, low-crowned hat worn by Greeks and Romans. 

PETAURIST:  Any flying marsupial of the genera Petaurus, Phalangista, Acrobata, and allied genera. See Flying mouse, under Flying, and Phalangister. 

PETECHIAE:  Small crimson, purple, or livid spots, like flea-bites, due to extravasation of blood, which appear on the skin in malignant fevers, etc. 

PETECHIAL:  Characterized by, or pertaining to, petechiæ; spotted. Petechial fever, a malignant fever, accompanied with livid spots on the skin. 

PETER:  A common baptismal name for a man. The name of one of the apostles, Peter boat, a fishing boat, sharp at both ends, originally of the Baltic Sea, but now common in certain English rivers.  -- Peter Funk, the auctioneer in a mock auction. [Cant, U.S.] -- Peter pence, or Peter's pence. (a) An annual tax or tribute, formerly paid by the English people to the pope, being a penny for every house, payable on Lammas or St.Peter's day; -- called also Rome scot, and hearth money. (b) In modern times, a voluntary contribution made by Roman Catholics to the private purse of the pope.  -- Peter's fish (Zoöl.), a haddock; -- so called because the black spots, one on each side, behind the gills, are traditionally said to have been caused by the fingers of St. Peter, when he caught the fish to pay the tribute. The name is applied, also, to other fishes having similar spots. 

PETER:  To become exhausted; to run out; to fail; -- used generally with out; as, that mine has petered out. [Slang, U.S.] 

PETEREL:  See Petrel. 

PETERERO:  See Pederero. 

PETERMAN:  A fisherman; -- so called after the apostle Peter. [An obs. local term in Eng.] Chapman. 

PETERSHAM:  A rough, knotted woolen cloth, used chiefly for men's overcoats; also, a coat of that material. 

PETERWORT:  See Saint Peter's-wort, under Saint.  PETIOLAR; PETIOLARY Pet"i*o*lar, Pet"i*o*la*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. pétiolarie.] (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to petiole, or proceeding from it; as, a petiolar tendril; growing or supported upon a petiole; as, a petiolar gland; a petiolar bud.  PETIOLATE; PETIOLATED Pet"i*o*late, Pet"i*o*la`ted, a. (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Having a stalk or petiole; as, a petioleate leaf; the petiolated abdomen of certain Hymenoptera. 

PETIOLE:  A leafstalk; the footstalk of a leaf, connecting the blade with the stem. See Illust. of Leaf.  2. (Zoöl.)  A stalk or peduncle. 

PETIOLED:  Petiolate. 

PETIOLULATE:  Supported by its own petiolule. Gray. 

PETIOLULE:  A small petiole, or the petiole of a leaflet. 

PETIT:  Small; little; insignificant; mean; -- Same as Petty. [Obs., except in legal language.] By what small, petit hints does the mind catch hold of and recover a vanishing notion. South. Petit constable, an inferior civil officer, subordinate to the high constable.  -- Petit jury, a jury of twelve men, impaneled to try causes at the bar of a court; -- so called in distinction from the grand jury.  -- Petit larceny, the stealing of goods of, or under, a certain specified small value; -- opposed to grand larceny. The distinction is abolished in England.  -- Petit maître (. Etym: [F., lit., little master.] A fop; a coxcomb; a ladies' man. Goldsmith.  -- Petit serjeanty (Eng. Law), the tenure of lands of the crown, by the service of rendering annually some implement of war, as a bow, an arrow, a sword, a flag, etc.  -- Petit treason, formerly, in England, the crime of killing a person to whom the offender owed duty or subjection, as one's husband, master, mistress, etc. The crime is now not distinguished from murder. 

PETITE:  Small, little; of a woman or girl, of small size and trim figure. 

PETITION:  To make a prayer or request to; to ask from; to solicit; to entreat; especially, to make a formal written supplication, or application to, as to any branch of the government; as, to petition the court; to petition the governor. You have . . . petitioned all the gods for my prosperity. Shak. 

PETITION:  To make a petition or solicitation. 

PETITIONARILY:  By way of begging the question; by an assumption. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PETITIONEE:  A person cited to answer, or defend against, a petition. 

PETITIONER:  One who presents a petition. 

PETITIONING:  The act of presenting apetition; a supplication.  PETIT MAL Pe*tit" mal". [F., lit., little sickness.] (Med.)  The mildest form of epilepsy, with momentary faintness or unconsciousness, but without convulsions; -- opposed to grand mal. 

PETITOR:  One who seeks or asks; a seeker; an applicant. [R.] Fuller. 

PETITORY:  Petitioning; soliciting; supplicating. Sir W. Hamilton. Petitory suit or action (Admiralty Law), a suit in which the mere title to property is litigated and sought to be enforced, as distinguished from a possessory suit; also (Scots Law), a suit wherein the plaintiff claims something as due him by the defendant. Burrill. 

PETONG:  See Packfong. 

PETRALOGY:  See Petrology. 

PETRARY:  An ancient war engine for hurling stones. 

PETRE:  See Saltpeter. 

PETREAN:  Of or pertaining to to rock. G. S. Faber. 

PETREL:  Any one of numerous species of longwinged sea birds belonging to the family Procellaridæ. The small petrels, or Mother Carey's chickens, belong to Oceanites, Oceanodroma, Procellaria, and several allied genera. Diving petrel, any bird of the genus Pelecanoides. They chiefly inhabit the southern hemisphere.  -- Fulmar petrel, Giant petrel. See Fulmar.  -- Pintado petrel, the Cape pigeon. See under Cape.  -- Pintado petrel, any one of several small petrels, especially Procellaria pelagica, or Mother Carey's chicken, common on both sides of the Atlantic. 

PETRESCENCE:  The process of changing into stone; petrification. 

PETRESCENT:  Petrifying; converting into stone; as, petrescent water. Boyle. 

PETRIFIC:  Petrifying; petrifactive. Death with his mace petrific, cold and dry. Milton. 

PETRIFICATE:  To petrify. [Obs.] Our hearts petrificated were. J. Hall (1646). 

PETRINE:  Of or pertaining to St.Peter; as, the Petrine Epistles.  PETRO- Pet"ro-.  A combining form from Gr. rock, stone; as, petrology, petroglyphic. 

PETROGALE:  Any Australian kangaroo of the genus Petrogale, as the rock wallaby (P. penicillata). 

PETROGLYPHIC:  Of or pertaining to petroglyphy. 

PETROGLYPHY:  The art or operation of carving figures or inscriptions on rock or stone.  PETROGRAPHIC; PETROGRAPHICAL Pet`ro*graph"ic, Pet`ro*graph"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to petrography. 

PETROHYOID:  Pertaining to petrous, oe periotic, portion of the skull and the hyoid arch; as, the petrohyoid muscles of the frog. 

PETROL:  Petroleum. [R.] 

PETROLATUM:  A semisolid unctuous substance, neutral, and without taste or odor, derived from petroleum by distilling off the lighter portions and purifying the residue. It is a yellowish, fatlike mass, transparent in thin layers, and somewhat fluorescent. It is used as a bland protective dressing, and as a substitute for fatty materials in ointments. U. S. Pharm.  Note: Petrolatum is the official name for the purified product. Cosmoline and vaseline are commercial names for substances essentially the same, but differing slightly in appearance and consistency or fusibility. 

PETROLEUM:  Rock oil, mineral oil, or natural oil, a dark brown or greenish inflammable liquid, which, at certain points, exists in the upper strata of the earth, from whence it is pumped, or forced by pressure of the gas attending it. It consists of a complex mixture of various hydrocarbons, largely of the methane series, but may vary much in appearance, composition, and properties. It is refined by distillation, and the products include kerosene, benzine, gasoline, paraffin, etc. Petroleum spirit, a volatile liquid obtained in the distillation of crude petroleum at a temperature of 170° Fahr., or below. The term is rather loosely applied to a considerable range of products, including benzine and ligroin. The terms petroleum ether, and naphtha, are sometimes applied to the still more volatile products, including rhigolene, gasoline, cymogene, etc.  PETROLEUR; PETROLEUSE Pé`tro`leur", n. m. Pé`tro`leuse", n. f.Etym: [F.]  One who makes use of petroleum for incendiary purposes. 

PETROLINE:  A paraffin obtained from petroleum from Rangoon in India, and practically identical with ordinary paraffin.  PETROLOGIC; PETROLOGICAL Pet`ro*log"ic, Pet`ro*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to petrology. 

PETROLOGICALLY:  According to petrology. 

PETROLOGIST:  One who is versed in petrology. 

PETROMASTOID:  Of or pertaining to the petrous and mastoid parts of the temporal bone, periotic. 

PETROMYZONT:  A lamprey. 

PETRONEL:  A sort of hand cannon, or portable firearm, used in France in the 15th century. 

PETROSILEX:  Felsite. 

PETROSILICIOUS:  Containing, or consisting of, petrosilex. 

PETROSTEARINE:  A solid unctuous material, of which candles are made. 

PETROUS:  Same as Petrosal. 

PETTICHAPS:  See Pettychaps. 

PETTICOAT:  A loose under-garment worn by women, and covering the body below the waist. Petticoat government, government by women, whether in politics or domestic affairs. [Colloq.] -- Petticoat pipe (Locomotives), a short, flaring pipe surrounding the blast nozzle in the smoke box, to equalize the draft. 

PETTIFOG:  To do a petty business as a lawyer; also, to do law business in a petty or tricky way. "He takes no money, but pettifogs gratis." S. Butler. 

PETTIFOG:  To advocate like a pettifogger; to argue trickily; as, to pettifog a claim. [Colloq.] 

PETTIFOGGER:  A lawyer who deals in petty cases; an attorney whose methods are mean and tricky; an inferior lawyer. A pettifogger was lord chancellor. Macaulay. 

PETTIFOGGERY:  The practice or arts of a pettifogger; disreputable tricks; quibbles. Quirks of law, and pettifoggeries. Barrow. 

PETTIFOGGING:  Paltry; quibbling; mean. 

PETTIFOGGING:  Pettifoggery. 

PETTIFOGULIZE:  To act as a pettifogger; to use contemptible tricks. De Quincey. 

PETTILY:  In a petty manner; frivolously. 

PETTINESS:  The quality or state of being petty or paltry; littleness; meanness. 

PETTISH:  Fretful; peevish; moody; capricious; inclined to ill temper. "A pettish kind of humor." Sterne.  -- Pet"tish*ly, adv.  -- Pet"tish*ness, n. 

PETTITOES:  The toes or feet of a pig, -- often used as food; sometimes, in contempt, the human feet. Shak. 

PETTO:  The breast. In petto, in the breast; hence, in secrecy; in reserve. 

PETTY:  Little; trifling; inconsiderable; also, inferior; subordinate; as, a petty fault; a petty prince. Denham. Like a petty god I walked about, admired of all. Milton. Petty averages. See under Average.  -- Petty cash, money expended or received in small items or amounts.  -- Petty officer, a subofficer in the navy, as a gunner, etc., corresponding to a noncommissionned officer in the army.  Note: For petty constable, petty jury, petty larceny, petty treason, See Petit.  Syn.  -- Little; diminutive; inconsiderable; inferior; trifling; trivial; unimportant; frivolous. 

PETTYCHAPS:  Any one of several species of small European singing birds of the subfamily Sylviinæ, as the willow warbler, the chiff-chaff, and the golden warbler (Sylvia hortensis). 

PETTYWHIN:  The needle furze. See under Needle.  PETULANCE; PETULANCY Pet"u*lance, Pet"u*lan*cy, n. Etym: [L. petulania: cf. F. pétulance. See Petulant.]  The quality or state of being petulant; temporary peevishness; pettishness; capricious ill humor. "The petulancy of our words." B. Jonson. Like pride in some, and like petulance in others. Clarendon. The lowering eye, the petulance, the frown. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Petulance, Peevishness.  -- Peevishness implies the permanence of a sour, fretful temper; petulance implies temporary or capricious irritation. 

PETULANTLY:  In a petulant manner. 

PETULCITY:  Wantonness; friskiness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

PETULCOUS:  Wanton; frisky; lustful. [Obs.] J. V. Cane. 

PETUNE:  To spray (tobacco) with a liquid intended to produce flavor or aroma. 

PETUNIA:  A genus of solanaceous herbs with funnelform or salver-shaped corollas. Two species are common in cultivation, Petunia violacera, with reddish purple flowers, and P. nyctaginiflora, with white flowers. There are also many hybrid forms with variegated corollas.  PETUNSE; PETUNTSE; PETUNTZE Pe*tunse", Pe*tuntse", Pe*tuntze", n. Etym: [From Chinese.]  Powdered fledspar, kaolin, or quartz, used in the manufacture of porcelain.  PETWORTH MARBLE Pet"worth mar"ble.  A kind of shell marble occurring in the Wealden clay at Petworth, in Sussex, England; -- called also Sussex marble. 

PETZITE:  A telluride of silver and gold, related to hessite. 

PEUCEDANIN:  A tasteless white crystalline substance, extracted from the roots of the sulphurwort (Peucedanum), masterwort (Imperatoria), and other related plants; -- called also imperatorin. 

PEUCIL:  A liquid resembling camphene, obtained by treating turpentine hydrochloride with lime. [Written also peucyl.] 

PEW:  To furnish with pews. [R.] Ash. 

PEWEE:  A common American tyrant flycatcher (Sayornis phoebe, or S. fuscus). Called also pewit, and phoebe.  2. The woodcock. [Local, U.S.] Wood pewee (Zoöl.), a bird (Contopus virens) similar to the pewee (See Pewee, 1), but of smaller size. 

PEWET:  Same as Pewit. 

PEWTERER:  One whose occupation is to make utensils of pewter; a pewtersmith. Shak. 

PEWTERY:  Belonging to, or resembling, pewter; as, a pewtery taste. 

PEXITY:  Nap of cloth. [Obs.]  PEYER'S GLANDS Pey"er's glands`. Etym: [So called from J.K.Peyer, who described them in 1677.] (Anat.)  Pathches of lymphoid nodules, in the walls of the small intestiness; agminated glands; -- called also Peyer's patches. In typhoid fever they become the seat of ulcers which are regarded as the characteristic organic lesion of that disease. 

PEYTREL:  The breastplate of a horse's armor or harness. [Spelt also peitrel.] See Poitrel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PEZIZA:  A genus of fungi embracing a great number of species, some of which are remarkable for their regular cuplike form and deep colors. 

PEZIZOID:  Resembling a fungus of the genus Peziza; having a cuplike form. 

PFENNIG:  A small copper coin of Germany. It is the hundredth part of a mark, or about a quarter of a cent in United States currency. 

PHACELLUS:  One of the filaments on the inner surface of the gastric cavity of certain jellyfishes. 

PHACOCHERE:  The wart hog. 

PHACOID:  Resembling a lentil; lenticular. 

PHACOLITE:  A colorless variety of chabazite; the original was from Leipa, in Bohemia. 

PHACOPS:  A genus of trilobites found in the Silurian and Devonian formations. Phacops bufo is one of the most common species. 

PHAEACIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Phæacians, a fabulous seafaring people fond of the feast, the lyre, and the dance, mentioned by Homer. 

PHAENOGAM:  Any plant of the class Phænogamia. 

PHAENOGAMIA:  The class of flowering plants including all which have true flowers with distinct floral organs; phanerogamia.  PHAENOGAMIAN; PHAENOGAMIC Phæ`no*ga"mi*an, Phæ`no*gam"ic, a.  Same as Phænogamous. 

PHAENOGAMOUS:  Having true flowers with with distinct floral organs; flowering. 

PHAENOMENON:  See Phenomenon. 

PHAEOSPORE:  A brownish zoöspore, characteristic of an order (Phæosporeæ) of dark green or olive-colored algæ.  -- Phæ`o*spor"ic, a. 

PHAETHON:  The son of Helios (Phoebus), that is, the son of light, or of the sun. He is fabled to have obtained permission to drive the chariot of the sun, in doing which his want of skill would have set the world on fire, had he not been struck with a thunderbolt by Jupiter, and hurled headlong into the river Po.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of oceanic birds including the tropic birds. 

PHAETON:  A handsome American butterfly (Euphydryas, or Melitæa, Phaëton). The upper side of the wings is black, with orange-red spots and marginal crescents, and several rows of cream-colored spots; -- called also Baltimore. 

PHAGEDENA:  Of, like, or pertaining to, phagedena; used in the treatment of phagedena; as, a phagedenic ulcer or medicine.  -- n.  A phagedenic medicine. 

PHAGEDENOUS:  Phagedenic. 

PHAGOCYTE:  A leucocyte which plays a part in retrogressive processes by taking up (eating), in the form of fine granules, the parts to be removed. 

PHAINOPEPLA:  A small crested passerine bird (Phaïnopepla nitens), native of Mexico and the Southern United States. The adult male is of a uniform glossy blue-black; the female is brownish. Called also black flycatcher. 

PHAKOSCOPE:  An instrument for studying the mechanism of accommodation. 

PHALAENA:  A linnæan genus which included the moths in general. 

PHALAENID:  Any moth of the family Phalænidæ, of which the cankerworms are examples; a geometrid.  PHALANGEAL; PHALANGAL Pha*lan"ge*al, Pha*lan"gal, a.  Of or pertaining to the phalanges. See Phalanx, 2. 

PHALANGER:  Any marsupial belonging to Phalangista, Cuscus, Petaurus, and other genera of the family Phalangistidæ. They are arboreal, and the species of Petaurus are furnished with lateral parachutes. See Flying phalanger, under Flying. 

PHALANGES:  , pl. of Phalanx.  PHALANGIAL; PHALANGIAN Pha*lan"gi*al, Pha*lan"gi*an, a. (Anat.)  Phalangeal. 

PHALANGID:  One of the Phalangoidea. 

PHALANGIOUS:  Of or pertaining to Phalangoidea. 

PHALANGIST:  Any arboreal marsupial of the genus Phalangista. The vulpine phalangist (P. vulpina) is the largest species, the full grown male being about two and a half feet long. It has a large bushy tail.  PHALANGISTER; PHALANGISTINE Phal`an*gis"ter, Phal`an*gis"tine, n. (Zoöl.)  Same as Phalangist. 

PHALANGITE:  A soldier belonging to a phalanx. [Obs.] 

PHALANGOIDEA:  A division of Arachnoidea, including the daddy longlegs or harvestman (Phalangium) and many similar kinds. They have long, slender, many-jointed legs; usually a rounded, segmented abdomen; and chelate jaws. They breathe by tracheæ. Called also Phalangides, Phalangidea, Phalangiida, and Opilionea. 

PHALANSTERE:  A phalanstery. 

PHALANSTERIAN:  Of or pertaining to phalansterianism. 

PHALANSTERIAN:  One who favors the system of phalansteries proposed by Fourier.  PHALANSTERISM; PHALANSTERIANISM Pha*lan"ster*ism, Phal`an*ste"ri*an*ism, n.  A system of phalansteries proposed by Fourier; Fourierism. 

PHALANX:  A body of heavy-armed infantry formed in ranks and files close and deep. There were several different arrangements, the phalanx varying in depth from four to twenty-five or more ranks of men. "In cubic phalanx firm advanced." Milton. The Grecian phalanx, moveless as a tower. Pope.  2. Any body of troops or men formed in close array, or any combination of people distinguished for firmness and solidity of a union. At present they formed a united phalanx. Macaulay. The sheep recumbent, and the sheep that grazed, All huddling into phalanx, stood and gazed. Cowper.  3. A Fourierite community; a phalanstery.  4. (Anat.)  One of the digital bones of the hand or foot, beyond the metacarpus or metatarsus; an internode.  5. Etym: [pl. Phalanges.] (Bot.)  A group or bundle of stamens, as in polyadelphous flowers. 

PHALAROPE:  Any species of Phalaropus and allied genera of small wading birds (Grallæ), having lobate toes. They are often seen far from land, swimming in large flocks. Called also sea goose. 

PHALLIC:  Of or pertaining to the phallus, or to phallism. 

PHALLICISM:  See Phallism. 

PHALLISM:  The worship of the generative principle in nature, symbolized by the phallus. 

PHALLUS:  The penis or clitoris, or the embryonic or primitive organ from which either may be derived.  3. (Bot.)  A genus of fungi which have a fetid and disgusting odor; the stinkhorn. 

PHANAR:  A quarter of Constantinople which, after the Turkish conquest of the city, became the chief Greek quarter; hence, the Greek officials of Turkey, or phanariots, as a class.  PHANARIOT; PHANARIOTE Pha*nar"i*ot, n. Also Pha*nar"i*ote. [NGr., fr. Phanar. See Phanar.]  One of the Greeks of Constantinople who after the Turkish conquest became powerful in clerical and other offices under Turkish patronage. 

PHANE:  See Fane. [Obs.] Joye. 

PHANERITE:  Evident; visible. Phanerite series (Geol.), the uppermost part of the earth's crust, consisting of deposits produced by causes in obvious operation. 

PHANEROCARPAE:  Same as Acraspeda. 

PHANEROCODONIC:  Having an umbrella-shaped or bell-shaped body, with a wide, open cavity beneath; -- said of certain jellyfishes. 

PHANEROCRYSTALLINE:  Distinctly crystalline; -- used of rocks. Opposed to Ant: cryptocrystalline. 

PHANERODACTYLA:  Same as Saururæ. 

PHANEROGAMIA:  That one of the two primary divisions of the vegetable kingdom which contains the phanerogamic, or flowering, plants. 

PHANEROGAMIAN:  Phanerogamous.  PHANEROGAMIC; PHANEROGAMOUS Phan`er*o*gam"ic, Phan`er*og"a*mous, a.  Having visible flowers containing distinct stamens and pistils; -- said of plants. 

PHANEROGLOSSAL:  Having a conspicious tongue; -- said of certain reptiles and insects. 

PHANTASCOPE:  An optical instrument or toy, resembling the phenakistoscope, and illustrating the same principle; -- called also phantasmascope. 

PHANTASMA:  A phantasm. 

PHANTASMAGORIAL:  Of, relating to, or resembling phantasmagoria; phantasmagoric. 

PHANTASMAGORIC:  Of or pertaining to phantasmagoria; phantasmagorial. Hawthorne. 

PHANTASMAGORY:  See Phantasmagoria. 

PHANTASMAL:  Pertaining to, of the nature of, or resembling, a phantasm; spectral; illusive. 

PHANTASMASCOPE:  See Phantascope. 

PHANTASMATICAL:  Phantasmal. Dr. H. More. 

PHANTASMATOGRAPHY:  A description of celestial phenomena, as rainbows, etc.  PHANTASTIC; PHANTASTICAL Phan*tas"tic, Phan*tas"tic*al, a.  See Fantastic. 

PHANTASY:  See Fantasy, and Fancy. 

PHANTOM:  That which has only an apparent existence; an apparition; a specter; a phantasm; a sprite; an airy spirit; an ideal image. Strange phantoms rising as the mists arise. Pope. She was a phantom of delight. Wordsworth. Phantom ship. See Flying Dutchman, under Flying.  -- Phantom tumor (Med.), a swelling, especially of the abdomen, due to muscular spasm, accumulation of flatus, etc., simulating an actual tumor in appearance, but disappearing upon the administration of an anæsthetic. 

PHANTOMATIC:  Phantasmal. [R.] Coleridge.  PHANTOM CIRCUIT Phantom circuit. (Elec.)  The equivalent of an additional circuit or wire, in reality not existing, obtained by certain arrangements of real circuits, as in some multiplex telegraph systems. 

PHARAON:  See Pharaoh, 2. 

PHARAONIC:  Of or pertaining to the Pharaohs, or kings of ancient Egypt. 

PHARISEAN:  Following the practice of Pharisees; Pharisaic. [Obs.] "Pharisean disciples." Milton. 

PHARISEE:  One of a sect or party among the Jews, noted for a strict and formal observance of rites and ceremonies and of the traditions of the elders, and whose pretensions to superior sanctity led them to separate themselves from the other Jews. 

PHARISEEISM:  See Pharisaism.  PHARMACEUTIC; PHARMACEUTICAL Phar`ma*ceu"tic, Phar`ma*ceu"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. pharmaceuticus, Gr. pharmaceutique. See Pharmacy.]  Of or pertaining to the knowledge or art of pharmacy, or to the art of preparing medicines according to the rules or formulas of pharmacy; as, pharmaceutical preparations.  -- Phar`ma*ceu"tic*al*ly, adv. Pharmaceutical chemistry, that department of chemistry which ascertains or regulates the composition of medicinal substances. 

PHARMACEUTICS:  The science of preparing medicines. 

PHARMACEUTIST:  One skilled in pharmacy; a druggist. See the Note under Apothecary. 

PHARMACIST:  One skilled in pharmacy; a pharmaceutist; a druggist. 

PHARMACODYMANICS:  That branch of pharmacology which treats of the action and the effects of medicines. 

PHARMACODYNAMICS:  That branch of pharmacology which considers the mode of action, and the effects, of medicines. Dunglison. 

PHARMACOGNOSIS:  That branch of pharmacology which treats of unprepared medicines or simples; -- called also pharmacography, and pharmacomathy. 

PHARMACOGNOSY:  Pharmacognosis. 

PHARMACOGRAPHY:  See Pharmacognosis. 

PHARMACOLITE:  A hydrous arsenate of lime, usually occurring in silky fibers of a white or grayish color. 

PHARMACOLOGIST:  One skilled in pharmacology. 

PHARMACOMATHY:  See Pharmacognosis. 

PHARMACON:  A medicine or drug; also, a poison. Dunglison. 

PHARMACOPOLIST:  One who sells medicines; an apothecary. 

PHARMACOSIDERITE:  A hydrous arsenate of iron occurring in green or yellowish green cubic crystals; cube ore. 

PHAROLOGY:  The art or science which treats of lighthouses and signal lights. 

PHAROS:  A lighthouse or beacon for the guidance of seamen. He . . . built a pharos, or lighthouse. Arbuthnot. 

PHARYNGAL:  Pharyngeal. H. Sweet. 

PHARYNGEAL:  Of or pertaining to the pharynx; in the region of the pharynx. 

PHARYNGEAL:  A pharyngeal bone or cartilage; especially, one of the lower pharyngeals, which belong to the rudimentary fifth branchial arch in many fishes, or one of the upper pharyngeals, or pharyngobranchials, which are the dorsal elements in the complete branchial arches. 

PHARYNGITIS:  Inflammation of the pharynx. 

PHARYNGOBRANCHIAL:  Of or pertaining to the pharynx and the branchiæ; -- applied especially to the dorsal elements in the branchial arches of fishes. See Pharyngeal.  -- n.  A pharyngobranchial, or upper pharyngeal, bone or cartilage. 

PHARYNGOBRANCHII:  Same as Leptocardia. 

PHARYNGOGNATHI:  A division of fishes in which the lower pharyngeal bones are united. It includes the scaroid, labroid, and embioticoid fishes. 

PHARYNGOLARYNGEAL:  Of or pertaining both to pharynx and the larynx. 

PHARYNGOPNEUSTA:  A group of invertebrates including the Tunicata and Enteropneusta.  -- Pha*ryn`gop*neus"tal, a. 

PHARYNGOTOME:  An instrument for incising or scarifying the tonsils, etc. 

PHARYNX:  The part of the alimentary canal between the cavity of the mouth and the esophagus. It has one or two external openings through the nose in the higher vertebrates, and lateral branchial openings in fishes and some amphibias. 

PHASCOLOME:  A marsupial of the genus Phascolomys; a wombat. 

PHASE:  A particular appearance or state in a regularly recurring cycle of changes with respect to quantity of illumination or form of enlightened disk; as, the phases of the moon or planets. See Illust. under Moon.  4. (Physics)  Any one point or portion in a recurring series of changes, as in the changes of motion of one of the particles constituting a wave or vibration; one portion of a series of such changes, in distinction from a contrasted portion, as the portion on one side of a position of equilibrium, in contrast with that on the opposite side.  PHASE ANGLE Phase angle. (Elec.)  The angle expressing phase relation.  PHASE CONVERTER Phase converter. (Elec.)  A machine for converting an alternating current into an alternating current of a different number of phases and the same frequency.  PHASE DISPLACEMENT Phase displacement. (Elec.)  A charge of phase whereby an alternating current attains its maximum later or earlier. An inductance would cause a lag, a capacity would cause an advance, in phase. 

PHASEL:  The French bean, or kidney bean. 

PHASELESS:  Without a phase, or visible form. [R.] "A phaseless and increasing gloom." Poe.  PHASE METER; PHASEMETER Phase meter, or Phase"me`ter, n. (Elec.)  A device for measuring the difference in phase of two alternating currents of electromotive forces. 

PHASEOLUS:  A genus of leguminous plants, including the Lima bean, the kidney bean, the scarlet runner, etc. See Bean. 

PHASEOMANNITE:  Same as Inosite.  PHASE RULE Phase rule. (Phys. Chem.)  A generalization with regard to systems of chemical equilibrium, discovered by Prof. J. Willard Gibbs. It may be stated thus: The degree of variableness (number of degrees of freedom) of a system is equal to the number of components minus the number of phases, plus two. Thus, if the components be salt and water, and the phases salt, ice, saturated solution, and vapor, the system is invariant, that is, there is only one set of conditions under which these four phases can exist in equilibrium. If only three phases be considered, the system is univariant, that is, the fixing of one condition, as temperature, determines the others.  PHASE SPLITTER Phase splitter. (Elec.)  A device by which a single-phase current is split into two or more currents differing in phase. It is used in starting single-phase induction motors.  PHASE SPLITTING Phase splitting. (Elec.)  The dephasing of the two parts of a single alternating current in two dissimilar branches of a given circuit. 

PHASING:  Pertaining to phase or differences of phase.  PHASING CURRENT Phasing current.  The momentary current between two alternating-current generators when juxtaposed in parallel and not agreeing exactly in phase or period.  PHASING TRANSFORMER Phasing transformer.  Any of several transformers (there must be at least two) for changing phase. 

PHASIS:  See Phase. Creech.  PHASM; PHASMA Phasm, Phas"ma, n. Etym: [L. phasma, Gr. Phase.]  An apparition; a phantom; an appearance. [R.] Hammond. Sir T. Herbert. 

PHASMID:  Any orthopterous insect of the family Phasmidæ, as a leaf insect or a stick insect. 

PHASSACHATE:  The lead-colored agate; -- so called in reference to its color. 

PHATAGIN:  The long-tailed pangolin (Manis tetradactyla); -- called also ipi. 

PHEASANT:  Any one of numerous species of large gallinaceous birds of the genus Phasianus, and many other genera of the family Phasianidæ, found chiefly in Asia.  Note: The common, or English, pheasant (Phasianus Colchicus) is now found over most of temperate Europe, but was introduced from Asia. The ring-necked pheasant (P. torquatus) and the green pheasant (P. versicolor) have been introduced into Oregon. The golden pheasant (Thaumalea picta) is one of the most beautiful species. The silver pheasant (Euplocamus nychthemerus) of China, and several related species from Southern Asia, are very beautiful.  2. (Zoöl.)  The ruffed grouse. [Southern U.S.]  Note: Various other birds are locally called pheasants, as the lyre bird, the leipoa, etc. Fireback pheasant. See Fireback.  -- Gold, or Golden, pheasant (Zoöl.), a Chinese pheasant (Thaumalea picta), having rich, varied colors. The crest is amber-colored, the rump is golden yellow, and the under parts are scarlet.  -- Mountain pheasant (Zoöl.), the ruffed grouse. [Local, U.S.] -- Pheasant coucal (Zoöl.), a large Australian cuckoo (Centropus phasianus). The general color is black, with chestnut wings and brown tail. Called also pheasant cuckoo. The name is also applied to other allied species.  -- Pheasant duck. (Zoöl.) (a) The pintail. (b) The hooded merganser.  -- Pheasant parrot (Zoöl.), a large and beautiful Australian parrakeet (Platycercus Adelaidensis). The male has the back black, the feathers margined with yellowish blue and scarlet, the quills deep blue, the wing coverts and cheeks light blue, the crown, sides of the neck, breast, and middle of the belly scarlet.  -- Pheasant's eye. (Bot.) (a) A red-flowered herb (Adonis autumnalis) of the Crowfoot family; -- called also pheasant's-eye Adonis. (b) The garden pink (Dianthus plumarius); -- called also Pheasant's-eye pink.  -- Pheasant shell (Zoöl.), any marine univalve shell of the genus Phasianella, of which numerous species are found in tropical seas. The shell is smooth and usually richly colored, the colors often forming blotches like those of a pheasant.  -- Pheasant wood. (Bot.) Same as Partridge wood (a), under Partridge.  -- Sea pheasant (Zoöl.), the pintail.  -- Water pheasant. (Zoöl.) (a) The sheldrake. (b) The hooded merganser. 

PHEASANTRY:  A place for keeping and rearing pheasants. Gwilt. 

PHEBE:  See Phoebe. 

PHEER:  See 1st Fere. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PHEESE:  To comb; also, to beat; to worry. [Obs. or Local] See Feaze, v. 

PHEESE:  Fretful excitement. [Obs. or Local] See Feaze, n. 

PHELLODERM:  A layer of green parenchimatous cells formed on the inner side of the phellogen. 

PHELLOGEN:  The tissue of young cells which produces cork cells. 

PHELLOPLASTICS:  Art of modeling in cork.  PHENACETIN; PHENACETINE Phe*nac"e*tin, Phe*nac"e*tine, n.  [Phenyl + acetic + -in.] (Pharm.)  A white, crystalline compound, C10H13O2N, used in medicine principally as an antipyretic. 

PHENACITE:  A glassy colorless mineral occurring in rhombohedral crystals, sometimes used as a gem. It is a silicate of glucina, and receives its name from its deceptive similarity to quartz. 

PHENAKISTOSCOPE:  A revolving disk on which figures drawn in different relative attitudes are seen successively, so as to produce the appearance of an object in actual motion, as an animal leaping, etc., in consequence of the persistence of the successive visual impressions of the retina. It is often arranged so that the figures may be projected upon a screen. 

PHENALGIN:  An ammoniated compound of phenyl and acetamide, used as an analgesic and antipyretic. It resembles phenacetin in its therapeutic action. 

PHENANTHRENE:  A complex hydrocarbon, C14H10, found in coal tar, and obtained as a white crystalline substance with a bluish fluorescence. 

PHENANTHRIDINE:  A nitrogenous hydrocarbon base, C13H9N, analogous to phenanthrene and quinoline. 

PHENANTHROLINE:  Either of two metameric nitrogenous hydrocarbon bases, C12H8N2, analogous to phenanthridine, but more highly nitrogenized. 

PHENE:  Benzene. [Obs.] 

PHENETOL:  The ethyl ether of phenol, obtained as an aromatic liquid, C6H5.O.C2H5. 

PHENIC:  Of, pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, phenyl or phenol. Phenic acid (Chem.), a phenol. [Obsoles.] 

PHENICIAN:  See Phoenician. 

PHENICIOUS:  Of a red color with a slight mixture of gray. Dana. 

PHENICOPTER:  A flamingo. 

PHENIX:  A bird fabled to exist single, to be consumed by fire by its own act, and to rise again from its ashes. Hence, an emblem of immortality.  2. (Astron.)  A southern constellation.  3. A marvelous person or thing. [R.] Latimer. 

PHENOCRYST:  One of the prominent embedded crystals of a porphyry. 

PHENOGAMIA:  Same as Phænogamia.  PHENOGAMIAN; PHENOGAMIC; PHENOGAMOUS Phen`o*ga"mi*an, Phen`o*gam"ic, Phe*nog"a*mous, a.  Same as Phænogamian, Phænogamic, etc. 

PHENOLATE:  A compound of phenol analogous to a salt. 

PHENOLOGY:  The science of the relations between climate and periodic biological phenomena, as the migrations and breeding of birds, the flowering and fruiting of plants, etc. -- Phe`no*log"ic*al (#), a. -- Phe`no*log"ic*al*ly, adv. -- Phe*nol"o*gist (#), n.  PHENOLPHTHALEIN; PHENOL PHTHALEIN Phe`nol*phthal"e*in, n., or Phenol phthalein. (Chem.)  A white or yellowish white crystalline substance, C20H14O4, formed by condensation of the anhydride of phthalic acid and phenol. Its solution in alkalies is brilliant red, but is decolorized by acids. This reaction, being very delicate, is used as an indicator. 

PHENOMENAL:  Relating to, or of the nature of, a phenomenon; hence, extraordinary; wonderful; as, a phenomenal memory.  -- Phe*nom"e*nal*ly, adv. 

PHENOMENALISM:  That theory which limits positive or scientific knowledge to phenomena only, whether material or spiritual. 

PHENOMENIST:  One who believes in the theory of phenomenalism. 

PHENOMENOLOGY:  A description, history, or explanation of phenomena. "The phenomenology of the mind." Sir W. Hamilton. 

PHENOSE:  A sweet amorphous deliquescent substance obtained indirectly from benzene, and isometric with, and resembling, dextrose. 

PHENYL:  A hydrocarbon radical (C6H5) regarded as the essential residue of benzene, and the basis of an immense number of aromatic derivatives. Phenyl hydrate (Chem.), phenol or carbolic acid.  -- Phenyl hydrazine (Chem.), a nitrogenous base (C6H5.N2H3) produced artificially as a colorless oil which unites with acids, ketones, etc., to form well-crystallized compounds. 

PHENYLAMINE:  Any one of certain class of organic bases regarded as formed from ammonia by the substitution of phenyl for hydrogen. 

PHENYLENE:  A hypothetic radical (C6H4) occurring in certain derivatives of benzene; as, phenylene diamine. 

PHENYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, phenyl. Phenylic alcohol (Chem.), phenol. 

PHEON:  A bearing representing the head of a dart or javelin, with long barbs which are engrailed on the inner edge. 

PHIAL:  A glass vessel or bottle, especially a small bottle for medicines; a vial. 

PHIAL:  To put or keep in, or as in, a phial. Its phial'd wrath may fate exhaust. Shenstone. 

PHILABEG:  See Filibeg. 

PHILADELPHIAN:  Of or pertaining to Ptolemy Philadelphus, or to one of the cities named Philadelphia, esp. the modern city in Pennsylvania. 

PHILADELPHIAN:  One of a society of mystics of the seventeenth century, -- called also the Family of Love. Tatler. 

PHILALETHIST:  A lover of the truth. [Obs.] Brathwait. 

PHILANDER:  To make love to women; to play the male flirt. You can't go philandering after her again. G. Eliot. 

PHILANDER:  A lover. [R.] Congreve. 

PHILANDERER:  One who hangs about women; a male flirt. [R.] C. Kingsley. 

PHILANTHROPE:  A philanthropist. [Obs.] R. North.  PHILANTHROPIC; PHILANTHROPICAL Phil`an*throp"ic, Phil`an*throp"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. philanthropique.]  Of or pertaining to philanthropy; characterized by philanthropy; loving or helping mankind; as, a philanthropic enterprise.  -- Phil`an*throp"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PHILANTHROPINISM:  A system of education on so-called natural principles, attempted in Germany in the last century by Basedow, of Dessau. 

PHILANTHROPINIST:  An advocate of, or believer in, philanthropinism. 

PHILANTHROPIST:  One who practices philanthropy; one who loves mankind, and seeks to promote the good of others. 

PHILANTHROPISTIC:  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, a philanthropist. [R.] Carlyle. 

PHILANTHROPY:  Love to mankind; benevolence toward the whole human family; universal good will; desire and readiness to do good to all men; -- opposed to misanthropy. Jer. Taylor. 

PHILATELIC:  Of or pertaining to philately. 

PHILATELIST:  One versed in philately; one who collects postage stamps. 

PHILATELY:  The collection of postage stamps of various issues. 

PHILATHEA:  An international, interdenominational organization of Bible classes of young women. 

PHILATORY:  A kind of transparent reliquary with an ornamental top. 

PHILAUTY:  Self-love; selfishness. [Obs.] Beaumont. 

PHILHARMONIC:  Loving harmony or music. 

PHILHELLENE:  A friend of Greece, or of the Greeks; a philhellenist. Emerson. 

PHILHELLENIC:  Of or pertaining to philhellenism. 

PHILHELLENISM:  Love of Greece. 

PHILHELLENIST:  A friend of Greece; one who supports the cause of the Greeks; particularly, one who supported them in their struggle for independence against the Turks; a philhellene. 

PHILIBEG:  See Filibeg. [Scot.] 

PHILIPPIAN:  Of or pertaining to Philippi, a city of ancient Macedonia.  -- n.  A native or an inhabitant of Philippi. 

PHILIPPIUM:  A rare and doubtful metallic element said to have been discovered in the mineral samarskite. 

PHILIPPIZE:  To write or speak in the style of a philippic. 

PHILISTER:  A Philistine; -- a cant name given to townsmen by students in German universities. 

PHILISTINISM:  The condition, character, aims, and habits of the class called Philistines. See Philistine, 3. [Recent] Carlyle. On the side of beauty and taste, vulgarity; on the side of morals and feeling, coarseness; on the side of mind and spirit, unintelligence, -- this is Philistinism. M. Arnold. 

PHILLYGENIN:  A pearly crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of phillyrin. 

PHILLYREA:  A genus of evergreen plants growing along the shores of the Mediterranean, and breading a fruit resembling that of the olive. 

PHILLYRIN:  A glucoside extracted from Phillyrea as a bitter white crystalline substance. It is sometimes used as a febrifuge.  PHILO- Philo-.  A combining form from Gr. fi`los loving, fond of, attached to; as, philosophy, philotechnic. 

PHILOGYNIST:  A lover or friend of women; one who esteems woman as the higher type of humanity; -- opposed to Ant: misogynist. 

PHILOGYNY:  Fondness for women; uxoriousness; -- opposed to Ant: misogyny. [R.] Byron. 

PHILOHELLENIAN:  A philhellenist. 

PHILOLOGER:  A philologist. Burton. 

PHILOLOGIAN:  A philologist. [R.]  PHILOLOGICAL; PHILOLOGIC Phil`o*log"ic*al, Phil`o*log"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. philologique.]  Of or pertaining to philology.  -- Phil`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PHILOLOGIST:  One versed in philology. 

PHILOLOGIZE:  To study, or make critical comments on, language. Evelyn. 

PHILOLOGUE:  A philologist. [R.] Carlyle. 

PHILOMATH:  A lover of learning; a scholar. Chesterfield. 

PHILOMATHEMATIC:  A philomath. 

PHILOMATHY:  The love of learning or letters. 

PHILOMEL:  Same as Philomela, the nightingale. [Poetic] Milton. Cowper. 

PHILOMELA:  A genus of birds including the nightingales. 

PHILOMENE:  The nightingale. [Obs.] 

PHILOMOT:  Of the color of a dead leaf. [Obs.] Addison. 

PHILOMUSICAL:  Loving music. [R.]Busby. 

PHILOPENA:  A present or gift which is made as a forfeit in a social game that is played in various ways; also, the game itself. [Written also fillipeen and phillippine.]  Note: One of the ways may be stated as follows: A person finding a nut with two kernels eats one, and gives the other to a person of the opposite sex, and then whichever says philopena first at the next meeting wins the present. The name is also applied to the kernels eaten.  PHILOPOLEMIC; PHILOPOLEMICAL Phil`o*po*lem"ic, Phil`o*po*lem"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Fond of polemics or controversy. [R.] 

PHILOPROGENITIVE:  Having the love of offspring; fond of children. 

PHILOPROGENITIVENESS:  The love of offspring; fondness for children. 

PHILOSOPHASTER:  A pretender to philosophy. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PHILOSOPHATE:  To play the philosopher; to moralize. [Obs.] Barrow. 

PHILOSOPHATION:  Philosophical speculation and discussion. [Obs.] Sir W. Petty. 

PHILOSOPHE:  A philosophaster; a philosopher. [R.] Carlyle. 

PHILOSOPHEME:  A philosophical proposition, doctrine, or principle of reasoning. [R.] This, the most venerable, and perhaps the most ancient, of Grecian myths, is a philosopheme. Coleridge. 

PHILOSOPHER:  Of or pertaining to philosophy; versed in, or imbued with, the principles of philosophy; hence, characterizing a philosopher; rational; wise; temperate; calm; cool.  -- Phil`o*soph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PHILOSOPHISM:  Spurious philosophy; the love or practice of sophistry. Carlyle. 

PHILOSOPHIST:  A pretender in philosophy.  PHILOSOPHISTIC; PHILOSOPHISTICAL Phi*los`o*phis"tic, Phi*los`o*phis"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the love or practice of sophistry. [R.] 

PHILOSOPHIZE:  To reason like a philosopher; to search into the reason and nature of things; to investigate phenomena, and assign rational causes for their existence. Man philosophizes as he lives. He may philosophize well or ill, but philosophize he must. Sir W. Hamilton. 

PHILOSOPHIZER:  One who philosophizes. 

PHILOSTORGY:  Natural affection, as of parents for their children. [R.]  PHILOTECHNIC; PHILOTECHNICAL Phil`o*tech"nic, Phil`o*tech"nic*al, a. Etym: [Philo- + Gr. philotechnique.]  Fond of the arts. [R.] 

PHILTER:  A potion or charm intended to excite the passion of love. [Written also philtre.] Addison. 

PHIMOSIS:  A condition of the penis in which the prepuce can not be drawn back so as to uncover the glans penis. 

PHITONESS:  Pythoness; witch. [Obs.] 

PHIZ:  The face or visage. [Colloq.] Cowper. 

PHLEBITIS:  Inflammation of a vein. 

PHLEBOGRAM:  A tracing (with the sphygmograph) of the movements of a vein, or of the venous pulse.  PHLEBOLITE; PHLEBOLITH Phleb"o*lite, Phleb"o*lith, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite, -lith.] (Med.)  A small calcareous concretion formed in a vein; a vein stone. 

PHLEBOLOGY:  A branch of anatomy which treats of the veins. 

PHLEBOTOMIST:  One who practiced phlebotomy. 

PHLEBOTOMIZE:  To let blood from by opening a vein; to bleed. [R.] Howell. 

PHLEBOTOMY:  The act or practice of opening a vein for letting blood, in the treatment of disease; venesection; bloodletting. 

PHLEGETHON:  One of the principal rivers of Hades, in the channel of which fire flowed instead of water.  Fierce Phlegethon, Whose waves of torrent fire inflame with rage. Milton. 

PHLEGM:  Viscid mucus secreted in abnormal quantity in the respiratory and digestive passages.  3. (Old Chem.)  A watery distilled liquor, in distinction from a spirituous liquor. Crabb.  4. Sluggishness of temperament; dullness; want of interest; indifference; coldness. They judge with fury, but they write with phlegm. Pope. 

PHLEGMAGOGUE:  A medicine supposed to expel phlegm. 

PHLEGMASIA:  An inflammation; more particularly, an inflammation of the internal organs. Phlegmasia dolens ( Etym: [NL.], milk leg. 

PHLEGMATICAL:  Phlegmatic. Ash. 

PHLEGMATICALLY:  In a phlegmatic manner. 

PHLEGMATICLY:  Phlegmatically. [Obs.] 

PHLEGMON:  Purulent inflammation of the cellular or areolar tissue. 

PHLEGMONOUS:  Having the nature or properties of phlegmon; as, phlegmonous pneumonia. Harvey. 

PHLEME:  See Fleam. 

PHLEUM:  A genus of grasses, including the timothy (Phleum pratense), which is highly valued for hay; cat's-tail grass. Gray. 

PHLOEM:  That portion of fibrovascular bundles which corresponds to the inner bark; the liber tissue; -- distinguished from xylem. 

PHLOGISTIAN:  A believer in the existence of phlogiston. 

PHLOGISTIC:  Of or pertaining to phlogiston, or to belief in its existence.  2. (Med.)  Inflammatory; belonging to inflammations and fevers. 

PHLOGISTICAL:  Phlogistic. 

PHLOGISTICATE:  To combine phlogiston with; -- usually in the form and sense of the p. p. or the adj.; as, highly phlogisticated substances. 

PHLOGISTICATION:  The act or process of combining with phlogiston. 

PHLOGISTON:  The hypothetical principle of fire, or inflammability, regarded by Stahl as a chemical element.  Note: This was supposed to be united with combustible (phlogisticated) bodies and to be separated from incombustible (dephlogisticated) bodies, the phenomena of flame and burning being the escape of phlogiston. Soot and sulphur were regarded as nearly pure phlogiston. The essential principle of this theory was, that combustion was a decomposition rather than the union and combination which it has since been shown to be. 

PHLOGOGENOUS:  Causing inflammation. 

PHLOGOPITE:  A kind of mica having generally a peculiar bronze-red or copperlike color and a pearly luster. It is a silicate of aluminia, with magnesia, potash, and some fluorine. It is characteristic of crystalline limestone or dolomite and serpentine. See Mica. 

PHLOGOSIS:  Inflammation of external parts of the body; erysipelatous inflammation. 

PHLOGOTIC:  Of or pertaining to phlogisis. 

PHLORAMINE:  A basic amido derivative of phloroglucin, having an astringent taste. 

PHLORETIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, or designating, an organic acid obtained by the decomposition of phloretin. 

PHLORETIN:  A bitter white crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of phlorizin, and formerly used to some extent as a substitute for quinine. 

PHLORIZIN:  A bitter white crystalline glucoside extracted from the root bark of the apple, pear, cherry, plum, etc. [Formerly also written phloridzin.] 

PHLOROGLUCIN:  A sweet white crystalline substance, metameric with pyrogallol, and obtained by the decomposition of phloretin, and from certain gums, as catechu, kino, etc. It belongs to the class of phenols. [Called also phloroglucinol.] 

PHLOROL:  A liquid metameric with xylenol, belonging to the class of phenols, and obtained by distilling certain salts of phloretic acid. 

PHLORONE:  A yellow crystalline substance having a peculiar unpleasant odor, resembling the quinones, and obtained from beechwood tar and coal tar, as also by the oxidation of xylidine; -- called also xyloquinone. 

PHLOX:  A genus of American herbs, having showy red, white, or purple flowers. Phlox worm (Zoöl.), the larva of an American moth (Heliothis phloxiphaga). It is destructive to phloxes.  -- Phlox subulata, the moss pink. See under Moss. 

PHLYCTENULAR:  Characterized by the presence of small pustules, or whitish elevations resembling pustules; as, phlyctenular ophthalmia. 

PHOCA:  A genus of seals. It includes the common harbor seal and allied species. See Seal. 

PHOCACEAN:  Any species of Phoca; a seal. 

PHOCAL:  Pertaining to seals. 

PHOCENIC:  Of or pertaining to dolphin oil or porpoise oil; -- said of an acid (called also delphinic acid) subsequently found to be identical with valeric acid. Watts. 

PHOCENIN:  See Delphin. 

PHOCINE:  Of or pertaining to the seal tribe; phocal. 

PHOCODONT:  One of the Phocodontia. 

PHOCODONTIA:  A group of extinct carnivorous whales. Their teeth had compressed and serrated crowns. It includes Squalodon and allied genera. 

PHOEBE:  The pewee, or pewit. 

PHOEBUS:  Apollo; the sun god.  2. The sun. "Phoebus 'gins arise." Shak. 

PHOENICIAN:  Of or pertaining to Phoenica.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Phoenica. 

PHOENICIOUS:  See Phenicious. 

PHOENICOPTERUS:  A genus of birds which includes the flamingoes. 

PHOENIX:  A genus of palms including the date tree. 

PHOLAD:  Any species of Pholas. 

PHOLADEAN:  Pholad. 

PHOLAS:  Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pholas, or family Pholadidæ. They bore holes for themselves in clay, peat, and soft rocks. 

PHONAL:  Of or relating to the voice; as, phonal structure. Max Müller. 

PHONASCETICS:  Treatment for restoring or improving the voice. 

PHONATION:  The act or process by which articulate sounds are uttered; the utterance of articulate sounds; articulate speech. 

PHONAUTOGRAPH:  An instrument by means of which a sound can be made to produce a visible trace or record of itself. It consists essentially of a resonant vessel, usually of paraboloidal form, closed at one end by a flexible membrane. A stylus attached to some point of the membrane records the movements of the latter, as it vibrates, upon a moving cylinder or plate. 

PHONE:  Colloq. for Telephone. 

PHONEIDOSCOPE:  An instrument for studying the motions of sounding bodies by optical means. It consists of a tube across the end of which is stretched a film of soap solution thin enough to give colored bands, the form and position of which are affected by sonorous vibrations. 

PHONETICALLY:  In a phonetic manner. 

PHONETICIAN:  One versed in phonetics; a phonetist. 

PHONETISM:  The science which treats of vocal sounds. J. Peile. 

PHONETIZATION:  The act, art, or process of representing sounds by phonetic signs. 

PHONETIZE:  To represent by phonetic signs. Lowell. 

PHONIC:  Of or pertaining to sound; of the nature of sound; acoustic. Tyndall. 

PHONICS:  See Phonetics.  PHONO- Pho"no-.  A combining form from Gr. sound, tone; as, phonograph, phonology. 

PHONO:  A South American butterfly (Ithonia phono) having nearly transparent wings. 

PHONOCAMPTIC:  Reflecting sound. [R.] "Phonocamptic objects." Derham. 

PHONOGRAPH:  An instrument for the mechanical registration and reproduction of audible sounds, as articulate speech, etc. It consists of a rotating cylinder or disk covered with some material easily indented, as tinfoil, wax, paraffin, etc., above which is a thin plate carrying a stylus. As the plate vibrates under the influence of a sound, the stylus makes minute indentations or undulations in the soft material, and these, when the cylinder or disk is again turned, set the plate in vibration, and reproduce the sound. 

PHONOGRAPHICALLY:  In a phonographic manner; by means of phonograph. 

PHONOGRAPHIST:  Phonographer. 

PHONOLITE:  A compact, feldspathic, igneous rock containing nephelite, haüynite, etc. Thin slabs give a ringing sound when struck; -- called also clinkstone. 

PHONOLOGER:  A phonologist.  PHONOLOGIC; PHONOLOGICAL Pho`no*log"ic, Pho`no*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to phonology. 

PHONOLOGIST:  One versed in phonology. 

PHONOLOGY:  The science or doctrine of the elementary sounds uttered by the human voice in speech, including the various distinctions, modifications, and combinations of tones; phonetics. Also, a treatise on sounds. 

PHONOMETER:  An instrument for measuring sounds, as to their intensity, or the frequency of the vibrations. 

PHONOMOTOR:  An instrument in which motion is produced by the vibrations of a sounding body. 

PHONORGANON:  A speaking machine. 

PHONOTYPE:  A type or character used in phonotypy.  PHONOTYPIC; PHONOTYPICAL Pho`no*typ"ic, Pho`no*typ"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to phonotypy; as, a phonotypic alphabet. 

PHONOTYPIST:  One versed in phonotypy. 

PHONOTYPY:  A method of phonetic printing of the English language, as devised by Mr. Pitman, in which nearly all the ordinary letters and many new forms are employed in order to indicate each elementary sound by a separate character. 

PHORMINX:  A kind of lyre used by the Greeks. Mrs. Browning. 

PHORMIUM:  A genus of liliaceous plants, consisting of one species (Phormium tenax). See Flax-plant. 

PHORONE:  A yellow crystalline substance, having a geraniumlike odor, regarded as a complex derivative of acetone, and obtained from certain camphor compounds. 

PHORONIS:  A remarkable genus of marine worms having tentacles around the mouth. It is usually classed with the gephyreans. Its larva (Actinotrocha) undergoes a peculiar metamorphosis. 

PHORONOMIA:  See Phoronomics. 

PHORONOMICS:  The science of motion; kinematics. [R.] Weisbach. 

PHOSGENE:  Producing, or produced by, the action of light; -- formerly used specifically to designate a gas now called carbonyl chloride. See Carbonyl. 

PHOSGENITE:  A rare mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals of a white, yellow, or grayish color and adamantine luster. It is a chlorocarbonate of lead. 

PHOSPHAM:  An inert amorphous white powder, PN2H, obtained by passing ammonia over heated phosphorus. [Spelt also phosphame.] -- Phos"pham"ic, a. 

PHOSPHATE:  A salt of phosphoric acid. 

PHOSPHATIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, phosphorus, phosphoric acid, or phosphates; as, phosphatic nodules. Phosphatic diathesis (Med.), a habit of body which leads to the undue excretion of phosphates with the urine. 

PHOSPHATURIA:  The excessive discharge of phosphates in the urine. 

PHOSPHENE:  A luminous impression produced through excitation of the retina by some cause other than the impingement upon it of rays of light, as by pressure upon the eyeball when the lids are closed. Cf. After- image. 

PHOSPHIDE:  A binary compound of phosphorus. 

PHOSPHINE:  A colorless gas, PH3, analogous to ammonia, and having a disagreeable odor resembling that of garlic. Called also hydrogen phosphide, and formerly, phosphureted hydrogen.  Note: It is the most important compound of phosphorus and hydrogen, and is produced by the action of caustic potash on phosphorus. It is spontaneously inflammable, owing to impurities, and in burning produces peculiar vortical rings of smoke. 

PHOSPHINIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, certain acids analogous to the phosphonic acids, but containing two hydrocarbon radicals, and derived from the secondary phosphines by oxidation. 

PHOSPHITE:  A salt of phosphorous acid. 

PHOSPHONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, certain derivatives of phosphorous acid containing a hydrocarbon radical, and analogous to the sulphonic acid. 

PHOSPHONIUM:  The hypothetical radical PH4, analogous to ammonium, and regarded as the nucleus of certain derivatives of phosphine. 

PHOSPHORATE:  To impregnate, or combine, with phosphorus or its compounds; as, phosphorated oil.  PHOSPHOR-BRONZE Phos"phor-bronze`, n. Etym: [Phosphor + bronze.] (Metal.)  A variety of bronze possessing great hardness, elasticity, and toughness, obtained by melting copper with tin phosphide. It contains one or two per cent of phosphorus and from five to fifteen per cent of tin. 

PHOSPHOREOUS:  Phosphorescent. [Obs.] 

PHOSPHORESCE:  To shine as phosphorus; to be phosphorescent; to emit a phosphoric light. 

PHOSPHORESCENT:  Shining with a phosphoric light; luminous without sensible heat.  -- n.  A phosphorescent substance. 

PHOSPHORICAL:  Phosphoric. 

PHOSPHORITE:  (min.) A massive variety of apatite. 

PHOSPHORITIC:  Pertaining to phosphorite; resembling, or of the nature of, phosphorite. 

PHOSPHORIZE:  To phosphorate. 

PHOSPHORIZED:  Containing, or impregnated with, phosphorus. 

PHOSPHOROGENIC:  Generating phosphorescence; as, phosphorogenic rays. 

PHOSPHOROSCOPE:  An apparatus for observing the phosphorescence produced in different bodies by the action of light, and for measuring its duration. 

PHOSPHOROUS:  Of or pertaining to phosphorus; resembling or containing phosphorus; specifically, designating those compounds in which phosphorus has a lower valence as contrasted with phosphoric compounds; as, phosphorous acid, H3PO3. 

PHOSPHORUS:  A poisonous nonmetallic element of the nitrogen group, obtained as a white, or yellowish, translucent waxy substance, having a characteristic disagreeable smell. It is very active chemically, must be preserved under water, and unites with oxygen even at ordinary temperatures, giving a faint glow, -- whence its name. It always occurs compined, usually in phosphates, as in the mineral apatite, in bones, etc. It is used in the composition on the tips of friction matches, and for many other purposes. The molecule contains four atoms. Symbol P. Atomic weight 31.0.  3. (Chem.)  Hence, any substance which shines in the dark like phosphorus, as certain phosphorescent bodies. Bologna phosphorus (Chem.), sulphide of barium, which shines in the dark after exposure to light; -- so called because this property was discovered by a resident of Bologna. The term is sometimes applied to other compounds having similar properties.  -- Metallic phosphorus (Chem.), an allotropic modification of phosphorus, obtained as a gray metallic crystalline substance, having very inert chemical properties. It is obtained by heating ordinary phosphorus in a closed vessel at a high temperature.  -- Phosphorus disease (Med.), a disease common among workers in phosphorus, giving rise to necrosis of the jawbone, and other symptoms.  -- Red, or Amorphous, phosphorus (Chem.), an allotropic modification of phosphorus, obtained as a dark red powder by heating ordinary phosphorus in closed vessels. It is not poisonous, is not phosphorescent, and is only moderately active chemically. It is valuable as a chemical reagent, and is used in the composition of the friction surface on which safety matches are ignited.  -- Solar phosphori (Chem.), phosphorescent substances which shine in the dark after exposure to the sunlight or other intense light.  PHOSPHORUS STEEL Phosphorus steel.  A steel in which the amount of phosphorus exceeds that of carbon. 

PHOSPHORYL:  The radical PO, regarded as the typical nucleus of certain compounds. 

PHOSPHURET:  A phosphide. [Obsoles.] 

PHOSPHURETED:  Impregnated, or combined, with phosphorus. [Obsoles.] [Written also phosphuretted.] Phosphureted hydrogen. (Chem.) See Phosphine. 

PHOTIC:  Relating to the production of light by the lower animals.  PHOTIC REGION Photic region. (Phytogeography)  The uppermost zone of the sea, which receives the most light. 

PHOTICS:  The science of light; -- a general term sometimes employed when optics is restricted to light as a producing vision. Knight. 

PHOTISM:  A luminous image or appearance of a hallucinatory character. 

PHOTO:  A contraction of Photograph. [Colloq.]  PHOTO- Pho"to-.  A combining form from Gr. fw^s, fwto`s, light; as, photography, phototype, photometer. 

PHOTOBACTERIUM:  A genus including certain comma-shaped marine bacteria which emit bluish or greenish phosphorescence. Also, any microörganism of this group. 

PHOTOBIOTIC:  Requiring light to live; incapable of living without light; as, photobiotic plant cells. 

PHOTOCERAMICS:  Art or process of decorating pottery with photographically prepared designs. -- Pho`to*ce*ram"ic (#), a. 

PHOTOCHEMICAL:  Of or pertaining to chemical action of light, or produced by it; as, the photochemical changes of the visual purple of the retina. 

PHOTOCHEMISTRY:  The branch of chemistry which relates to the effect of light in producing chemical changes, as in photography.  PHOTOCHROMIC; PHOTOCHROMATIC Pho`to*chro"mic, Pho`to*chro*mat"ic, a.  Of or pertaining to photochromy; produced by photochromy. 

PHOTOCHROMOGRAPHY:  Art or process of printing colored photographs. 

PHOTOCHROMOTYPE:  A colored print made photomechanically. 

PHOTOCHROMOTYPE:  To represent by a colored print made by any photomechanical process. 

PHOTOCHROMOTYPY:  The art of making photochromotypes. 

PHOTOCHROMY:  The art or process of reproducing colors by photography. 

PHOTOCHRONOGRAPHY:  Art of recording or measuring intervals of time by the photochronograph. -- Pho`to*chron`o*graph"ic (#), -graph"ic*al (#), a. -- -graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PHOTODROME:  An apparatus consisting of a large wheel with spokes, which when turning very rapidly is illuminated by momentary flashes of light passing through slits in a rotating disk. By properly timing the succession of flashes the wheel is made to appear to be motionless, or to rotate more or less slowly in either direction. 

PHOTODYNAMICS:  The relation of light to the movements of plants and their organs; the study of the phenomena of curvatures induced by the stimulus of light. --Pho`to*dy*nam"ic (#), Pho`to*dy*nam"ic*al (#), a.  PHOTO-ELECTRIC Pho`to-e*lec"tric, a. Etym: [Photo- + electric.]  Acting by the operation of both light and electricity; -- said of apparatus for producing pictures by electric light.  PHOTO-ELECTRIC; PHOTO-ELECTRICAL Pho`to-e*lec"tric, Pho`to-e*lec"tric*al, a.  Pert. to, or capable of developing, photo-electricity.  PHOTO-ELECTRIC CELL Photo-electric cell.  A cell (as one of two electrodes embedded in selenium) which by exposure to light generates an electric current.  PHOTO-ELECTRICITY Pho`to-e*lec*tric"i*ty, n. [Photo-+ electricity.]  Electricity produced by light.  PHOTO-ELECTROGRAPH Pho`to-e*lec"tro*graph, n. [See Photo-; Electrograph.] (Meteor.)  An electrometer registering by photography.  PHOTO-ELECTROTYPE Pho`to-e*lec"tro*type, n. (Print.)  An electrotype plate formed in a mold made by photographing on prepared gelatine, etc.  PHOTO-ENGRAVE Pho`to-en*grave", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Photo-engraved; p. pr. & vb. n. Photo-engraving.] [Photo- + engrave.]  To engrave by a photomechanical process; to make a photo- engraving of. -- Pho`to-en*grav"er (#), n.  PHOTO-ENGRAVING Pho`to-en*grav"ing, n. Etym: [Photo- + engraving.]  The process of obtaining an etched or engraved plate from the photographic image, to be used in printing; also, a picture produced by such a process.  PHOTO-EPINASTY Pho`to-ep"i*nas`ty, n. Etym: [See Photo-, and Epinastic.] (Bot.)  A disproportionately rapid growth of the upper surface of dorsiventral organs, such as leaves, through the stimulus of exposure to light. Encyc. Brit.  PHOTO-ETCH Pho`to-etch", v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Photo-etched; p. pr. & vb. n. Photo-etching.] [Photo- + etch.]  To engrave, or make an engraving of, by any photomechanical process involving etching of the plate.  PHOTO-ETCHING Pho`to-etch"ing, n.  A photo-engraving produced by any process involving the etching of the plate. 

PHOTOGALVANOGRAPHY:  The art or process of making photo-electrotypes. Sir D. Brewster. 

PHOTOGEN:  A light hydrocarbon oil resembling kerosene. It is obtained by distilling coal, paraffin, etc., and is used as a lubricant, illuminant, etc. [Written also photogene.] 

PHOTOGENIC:  Of or pertaining to photogeny; producing or generating light. 

PHOTOGENY:  See Photography. [Obsoles.] 

PHOTOGLYPHIC:  Pertaining to the art of engraving by the action of light. [Written also photoglyptic.] Photoglyphic engraving, a process of etching on copper, steel, or zinc, by means of the action of light and certain chemicals, so that from the plate impressions may be taken. Sir D. Brewster. 

PHOTOGLYPHY:  Photoglyphic engraving. See under Photoglyphic. 

PHOTOGLYPTIC:  Same as Photoglyphic. 

PHOTOGRAM:  A photograph. [R.] 

PHOTOGRAMMETER:  A phototheodolite, or a camera designed for use in photogrammetry. --Pho`to*gram*met"ric (#), Pho`to*gram*met"ric*al (#), a. 

PHOTOGRAMMETRY:  A method of surveying or map making by photography, used also in determining the height and motions of clouds, sea waves, and the like. 

PHOTOGRAPH:  A picture or likeness obtained by photography. 

PHOTOGRAPH:  To take a picture or likeness of by means of photography; as, to photograph a view; to photograph a group. He makes his pen drawing on white paper, and they are afterwards photographed on wood. Hamerton.  Note: Also used figuratively. He is photographed on my mind. Lady D. Hardy. 

PHOTOGRAPH:  To practice photography; to take photographs. 

PHOTOGRAPHER:  One who practices, or is skilled in, photography.  PHOTOGRAPHIC; PHOTOGRAPHICAL Pho`to*graph"ic, Pho`to*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. photographique.]  Of or pertaining to photography; obtained by photography; used ib photography; as a photographic picture; a photographic camera.  -- Pho`to*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. Photographic printing, the process of obtaining pictures, as on chemically prepared paper, from photographic negatives, by exposure to light. 

PHOTOGRAPHIST:  A photographer. 

PHOTOGRAPHOMETER:  An instrument for determining the sensibility of the plates employed in photographic processes to luminous rays. 

PHOTOGRAPHONE:  A device, consisting essentially of an electric arc and a camera, by which a series of photographs of the variations of the arc due to sound waves are obtained for reproduction by means of a selenium cell and a telephone. 

PHOTOGRAVURE:  A photoengraving; also, the process by which such a picture is produced. 

PHOTOHELIOGRAPH:  A modified kind of telescope adapted to taking photographs of the sun. 

PHOTOHELIOMETER:  A double-lens instrument for measuring slight variations of the sun's diameter by photography, utilizing the common chord of two overlapping images. 

PHOTOLITHOGRAPH:  A lithographic picture or copy from a stone prepared by the aid of photography. 

PHOTOLITHOGRAPH:  To produce (a picture, a copy) by the process of photolithography. 

PHOTOLITHOGRAPHER:  One who practices, or one who employs, photolithography. 

PHOTOLITHOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to photolithography; produced by photolithography. 

PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY:  The art or process of producing photolithographs.  PHOTOLOGIC; PHOTOLOGICAL Pho`to*log"ic, Pho`to*log"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to photology, or the doctrine of light. 

PHOTOLOGIST:  One who studies or expounds the laws of light. 

PHOTOLOGY:  The doctrine or science of light, explaining its nature and phenomena; optics. 

PHOTOLUMINESCENT:  Luminescent by exposure to light waves. -- Pho`to*lu`mi*nes"cence (#), n. 

PHOTOMAGNETIC:  Of or pertaining to photomagnetism. 

PHOTOMAGNETISM:  The branch of science which treats of the relation of magnetism to light. 

PHOTOMECHANICAL:  Pertaining to, or designating, any photographic process in which a printing surface is obtained without the intervention of hand engraving. 

PHOTOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the intensity of light, or, more especially, for comparing the relative intensities of different lights, or their relative illuminating power.  PHOTOMETRIC; PHOTOMETRICAL Pho`to*met"ric, Pho`to*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. photométrique.]  Of or pertaining to photometry, or to a photometer. 

PHOTOMETRICIAN:  One engaged in the scientific measurement of light.  PHOTOMETRICIAN; PHOTOMETRIST Pho*tom`e*tri"cian, Pho*tom"e*trist, n.  A specialist in photometry. 

PHOTOMETRY:  That branch of science which treats of the measurement of the intensity of light. 

PHOTOMEZZOTYPE:  A photomechanical process similar to collotype. 

PHOTOMICROGRAPHY:  The art of producing photomicrographs. 

PHOTONEPHOGRAPH:  A nephoscope registering by photography, commonly consisting of a pair of cameras used simultaneously. 

PHOTOPHILOUS:  Light-loving; growing in strong light, as many plants. 

PHOTOPHOBIA:  A dread or intolerance of light. Sir T. Watson. 

PHOTOPHONE:  An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of rays of light. A. G. Bell. 

PHOTOPHONIC:  Of or pertaining to photophone. 

PHOTOPHONY:  The art or practice of using the photophone. 

PHOTOPLAY:  A play for representation or exhibition by moving pictures; also, the moving-picture representation of a play. 

PHOTOPRINT:  Any print made by a photomechanical process. 

PHOTOPSIA:  An affection of the eye, in which the patient perceives luminous rays, flashes, coruscations, etc. See phosphene. 

PHOTOPSY:  Same as Photopsia. 

PHOTORELIEF:  A printing surface in relief, obtained by photographic means and subsequent manipulations. Knight. 

PHOTOSCOPE:  Anything employed for the observation of light or luminous effects. 

PHOTOSCOPIC:  Of or pertaining to the photoscope or its uses. 

PHOTOSCULPTURE:  A process in which, by means of a number of photographs simultaneously taken from different points of view on the same level, rough models of the figure or bust of a person or animal may be made with great expedition. 

PHOTOSPHERE:  A sphere of light; esp., the luminous envelope of the sun. 

PHOTOSPHERIC:  Of or pertaining to the photosphere. 

PHOTOSYNTHESIS:  The process of constructive metabolism by which carbohydrates are formed from water vapor and the carbon dioxide of the air in the chlorophyll-containing tissues of plants exposed to the action of light. It was formerly called assimilation, but this is now commonly used as in animal physiology. The details of the process are not yet clearly known. Baeyer's theory is that the carbon dioxide is reduced to carbon monoxide, which, uniting with the hydrogen of the water in the cell, produces formaldehyde, the latter forming various sugars through polymerization. Vines suggests that the carbohydrates are secretion products of the chloroplasts, derived from decomposition of previously formed proteids. The food substances are usually quickly translocated, those that accumulate being changed to starch, which appears in the cells almost simultaneously with the sugars. The chloroplasts perform photosynthesis only in light and within a certain range of temperature, varying according to climate. This is the only way in which a plant is able to organize carbohydrates. All plants without a chlorophyll apparatus, as the fungi, must be parasitic or saprophytic. --Pho`to*syn*thet"ic (#), a. -- Pho`to*syn*thet"ic*al*ly (#), adv.  PHOTOTAXIS; PHOTOTAXY Pho`to*tax"is, Pho"to*tax`y, n. [NL. phototaxis; photo- + Gr.  an arranging.] (Biol.)  The influence of light on the movements of low organisms, as various infusorians, the zoöspores of certain algæ, etc.; also, the tendency to follow definite directions of motion or assume definite positions under such influence. If the migration is toward the source of light, it is termed positive phototaxis; if away from the light, negative phototaxis. --Pho`to*tac"tic (#), a. --Pho`to*tac"tic*al*ly, adv. 

PHOTOTELEGRAPHY:  Telegraphy by means of light, as by the heliograph or the photophone. Also, less properly, telephotography. -- Pho`to*tel"e*graph (#), n. --Pho`to*tel`e*graph"ic (#), a. 

PHOTOTELESCOPE:  A telescope adapted for taking photographs of the heavenly bodies. 

PHOTOTHEODOLITE:  An arrangement of two photographic cameras, the plates of which may be brought into exactly the same plane, used in surveying and map making. From the differences between two pictures taken at the same moment, measurements in all dimensions of the region may be obtained. 

PHOTOTHERAPY:  The application of light for therapeutic purposes, esp. for treating diseases of the skin. -- Pho`to*the*rap"ic (#), Pho`to*ther`a*peu"tic (#), a. 

PHOTOTHERMIC:  Of or pertaining to both light and heat. 

PHOTOTONUS:  A motile condition in plants resulting from exposure to light.  -- Pho`to*ton"ic, a. 

PHOTOTOPOGRAPHY:  Photogrammetry. -- Pho`to*top`o*graph"ic (#), Pho`to*top`o*graph"ic*al (#), a. 

PHOTOTRICHROMATIC:  Designating a photomechanical process for making reproductions in natural colors by three printings. 

PHOTOTROPIC:  Same as Heliotropic. 

PHOTOTROPISM:  The tendency of growing plant organs to move or curve under the influence of light. In ordinary use the term is practically synonymous with heliotropism. 

PHOTOTYPE:  A plate or block with a printing surface (usually in relief) obtained from a photograph; also, any one of the many methods of processes by which such a printing surface is obtained. 

PHOTOTYPIC:  Of or pertaining to a phototype or phototypy. 

PHOTOTYPOGRAPHY:  Same as Phototypy. 

PHOTOTYPY:  The art or process of producing phototypes. 

PHOTOVISUAL:  Of certain achromatic lenses, having the same focus for the actinic and for the brightest of the visual rays. 

PHOTOXYLOGRAPHY:  The process of producing a representation of an object on wood, by photography, for the use of the wood engraver. 

PHOTOZINCOGRAPH:  A print made by photozincography.  -- Pho`to*zin`co*graph"ic, a. 

PHOTOZINCOGRAPHY:  A process, analogous to photolithography, for reproducing photographed impressions transferred to zinc plate. 

PHRAGMOCONE:  The thin chambered shell attached to the anterior end of a belemnite. [Written also phragmacone.] 

PHRAGMOSIPHON:  The siphon of a phragmocone. 

PHRASAL:  Of the nature of a phrase; consisting of a phrase; as, a phrasal adverb. Earlc. 

PHRASE:  A short clause or portion of a period.  Note: A composition consists first of sentences, or periods; these are subdivided into sections, and these into phrases. Phrase book, a book of idiomatic phrases. J. S. Blackie. 

PHRASE:  To express in words, or in peculiar words; to call; to style. "These suns -- for so they phrase 'em." Shak. 

PHRASE:  To group notes into phrases; as, he phrases well. See Phrase, n., 4. 

PHRASELESS:  Indescribable. Shak. 

PHRASEOGRAM:  A symbol for a phrase.  PHRASEOLOGIC; PHRASEOLOGICAL Phra`se*o*log"ic, Phra`se*o*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to phraseology; consisting of a peculiar form of words. "This verbal or phraseological answer." Bp. Pearson. 

PHRASEOLOGIST:  A collector or coiner of phrases. 

PHRASING:  The act or method of grouping the notes so as to form distinct musical phrases. 

PHRATRY:  A subdivision of a phyle, or tribe, in Athens. 

PHREATIC:  Subterranean; -- applied to sources supplying wells.  PHRENETIC; PHRENETICAL Phre*net"ic, Phre*net"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. phreneticus, Gr. phrénétique. See Frantic, and cf. Frenetic.]  Relating to phrenitis; suffering from frenzy; delirious; mad; frantic; frenetic.  -- Phre*net"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PHRENETIC:  One who is phrenetic. Harvey. 

PHRENIC:  Of or pertaining to the diaphragm; diaphragmatic; as, the phrenic nerve. 

PHRENICS:  That branch of science which relates to the mind; mental philosophy. [R.] 

PHRENISM:  See Vital force, under Vital. 

PHRENITIS:  Inflammation of the brain, or of the meninges of the brain, attended with acute fever and delirium; -- called also cephalitis.  2. See Frenzy. 

PHRENOGRAPH:  An instrument for registering the movements of the diaphragm, or midriff, in respiration. 

PHRENOLOGER:  A phrenologist. 

PHRENOLOGIC:  Phrenological. 

PHRENOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to phrenology.  -- Phren`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PHRENOLOGIST:  One versed in phrenology; a craniologist. 

PHRENOMAGNETISM:  The power of exciting the organs of the brain by magnetic or mesmeric influence. 

PHRENOSIN:  A nitrogenous body, related to cerebrin, supposed to exist in the brain. 

PHRENSIED:  See Frenzied. 

PHRENSY:  Violent and irrational excitement; delirium. See Frenzy. 

PHRENSY:  To render frantic. 

PHRENTIC:  See Phrenetic. [Obs.] 

PHRYGANEID:  Any insect belonging to the Phryganeides. 

PHRYGANEIDES:  A tribe of neuropterous insects which includes the caddice flies; -- called also Trichoptera. See Trichoptera. [Written also Phryganides.] 

PHRYGIAN:  Of or pertaining to Phrygia, or to its inhabitants. Phrygian mode (Mus.), one of the ancient Greek modes, very bold and vehement in style; -- so called because fabled to have been invented by the Phrygian Marsyas. Moore (Encyc. of Music).  -- Phrygian stone, a light, spongy stone, resembling a pumice, -- used by the ancients in dyeing, and said to be drying and astringent. 

PHRYGIAN:  A Montanist.  PHRYGIAN CAP Phryg"i*an cap`.  A close-fitting cap represented in Greek art as worn by Orientals, assumed to have been conical in shape. It has been adopted in modern art as the so-called liberty cap, or cap of liberty. 

PHTHALATE:  A salt of phthalic acid. 

PHTHALEIN:  One of a series of artificial organic dyes made as condensation products of the phenols with phthalic acid, and well represented by phenol phthaleïn. Their alkaline solutions are fluorescent. Phenol phthalein, a white or yellowish white crystalline substance made from phthalic acid and phenol. Its solution in alkalies is brilliant red, but is decolorized by acids, and as this reaction is exceedingly delicate it is used as an indicator. 

PHTHALIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid obtained by the oxidation of naphthalene and allied substances. Phthalic acid (Chem.), a white crystalline substance, C6H4.(CO2H)2, analogous to benzoic acid, and employed in the brilliant dyestuffs called the phthaleins. 

PHTHALIDE:  A lactone obtained by reduction of phthalyl chloride, as a white crystalline substance; hence, by extension, any one of the series of which phthalide proper is the type. [Written also phthalid.] 

PHTHALIMIDE:  An imido derivative of phthalic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C6H4.(CO)2NH, which has itself (like succinimide) acid properties, and forms a series of salts. Cf. Imido acid, under Imido. 

PHTHALIN:  A colorless crystalline substance obtained by reduction from phthaleïn, into which it is easily converted by oxidation; hence, any one of the series of which phthalin proper is the type. 

PHTHALYL:  The hypothetical radical of phthalic acid. 

PHTHIRIASIS:  A disease (morbus pediculous) consisting in the excessive multiplication of lice on the human body. 

PHTHISIC:  Same as Phthisis. 

PHTHISICAL:  Of or pertaining to phthisis; affected with phthisis; wasting; consumptive. 

PHTHISICKY:  Having phthisis, or some symptom of it, as difficulty in breathing. 

PHTHISIOLOGY:  A treatise on phthisis. Dunglison.  PHTHISIPNEUMONIA; PHTHISIPNEUMONY Phthis`ip*neu*mo"ni*a, Phthis`ip*neu"mo*ny, n. Etym: [NL. See Phthisis, Pneumonia.] (Med.)  Pulmonary consumption. 

PHTHISIS:  A wasting or consumption of the tissues. The term was formerly applied to many wasting diseases, but is now usually restricted to pulmonary phthisis, or consumption. See Consumption. Fibroid phthisis. See under Fibroid. 

PHTHONGAL:  Formed into, or characterized by, voice; vocalized; -- said of all the vowels and the semivowels, also of the vocal or sonant consonants g, d, b, l, r, v, z, etc. 

PHTHONGAL:  A vocalized element or letter. 

PHTHONGOMETER:  An instrument for measuring vocal sounds. Whewell. 

PHTHOR:  Fluorine. [Written also phthor.] 

PHYCITE:  See Erythrite, 1. 

PHYCOCHROME:  A bluish green coloring matter of certain algæ.  PHYCOCYANIN; PHYCOCYANINE Phy`co*cy"a*nin, Phy`co*cy"a*nine, n. Etym: [Gr. cyanin.]  A blue coloring matter found in certain algæ.  PHYCOERYTHRIN; PHYCOERYTHRINE Phy`co*e*ryth"rin, Phy`co*e*ryth"rine, n. Etym: [Gr. erythrin, -ine.]  A red coloring matter found in algæ of the subclass Florideæ. 

PHYCOGRAPHY:  A description of seaweeds. 

PHYCOLOGY:  The science of algæ, or seaweeds; algology. 

PHYCOMATER:  A gelatin in which the algæ spores have been supposed to vegetate. 

PHYCOMYCETES:  A large, important class of parasitic or saprophytic fungi, the algal or algalike fungi. The plant body ranges from an undifferentiated mass of protoplasm to a well-developed and much- branched mycelium. Reproduction is mainly sexual, by the formation of conidia or sporangia; but the group shows every form of transition from this method through simple conjugation to perfect sexual reproduction by egg and sperm in the higher forms. -- Phy`co*my*ce"tous (#), a. 

PHYCOPHAEINE:  A brown coloring matter found in certain algæ.  PHYCOXANTHIN; PHYCOXANTHINE Phy`co*xan"thin, Phy`co*xan"thine, n. Etym: [Gr.  A yellowish coloring matter found in certain algæ. 

PHYLACTER:  A phylactery. Sandys. 

PHYLACTERED:  Wearing a phylactery.  PHYLACTERIC; PHYLACTERICAL Phyl`ac*ter"ic, Phyl`ac*ter"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to phylacteries. 

PHYLACTOCARP:  A branch of a plumularian hydroid specially modified in structure for the protection of the gonothecæ.  PHYLACTOLAEMA; PHYLACTOLAEMATA Phy*lac`to*læ"ma, Phy*lac`to*læ"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  An order of fresh-water Bryozoa in which the tentacles are arranged on a horseshoe-shaped lophophore, and the mouth is covered by an epistome. Called also Lophopoda, and hippocrepians. 

PHYLACTOLAEMATOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Phylactolæma.  PHYLACTOLEMA; PHYLACTOLEMATA Phy*lac`to*le"ma, Phy*lac`to*le"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)  Same as Phylactolæma. 

PHYLARCH:  The chief of a phyle, or tribe. 

PHYLARCHY:  The office of a phylarch; government of a class or tribe. 

PHYLE:  A local division of the people in ancient Athens; a clan; a tribe. 

PHYLLITE:  A combining form from Gr. a leaf; as, phyllopod, phyllotaxy. 

PHYLLOBRANCHIA:  A crustacean gill composed of lamellæ. 

PHYLLOCLADIUM:  A flattened stem or branch which more or less resembles a leaf, and performs the function of a leaf as regards respiration and assimilation. 

PHYLLOCYANIN:  A blue coloring matter extracted from chlorophyll. [Written also phyllocyanine.] 

PHYLLOCYST:  The cavity of a hydrophyllium. 

PHYLLODE:  Same as Phyllodium. 

PHYLLODINEOUS:  Having phyllodia; relating to phyllodia. 

PHYLLODIUM:  A petiole dilated into the form of a blade, and usually with vertical edges, as in the Australian acacias. 

PHYLLODY:  A retrograde metamorphosis of the floral organs to the condition of leaves. 

PHYLLOID:  Resembling a leaf. 

PHYLLOMANIA:  An abnormal or excessive production of leaves. 

PHYLLOME:  A foliar part of a plant; any organ homologous with a leaf, or produced by metamorphosis of a leaf. 

PHYLLOMORPHOSIS:  The succession and variation of leaves during different seasons. R. Brown. 

PHYLLOPHAGOUS:  Substituting on leaves; leaf-eating. 

PHYLLOPHOROUS:  Leaf-bearing; producing leaves. 

PHYLLOPOD:  One of the Phyllopoda.  Note: [Also used adjectively.] 

PHYLLOPODA:  An order of Entomostraca including a large number of species, most of which live in fresh water. They have flattened or leaflike legs, often very numerous, which they use in swimming. Called also Branchiopoda.  Note: In some, the body is covered with a bivalve shell (Holostraca); in others, as Apus, by a shield-shaped carapace (Monostraca); in others, like Artemia, there is no carapace, and the body is regularly segmented. Sometimes the group is made to include also the Cladocera. 

PHYLLOPODOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Phyllopoda. 

PHYLLORHINE:  Of or pertaining to Phyllorhina and other related genera of bats that have a leaflike membrane around the nostrils. 

PHYLLOSOMA:  The larva of the spiny lobsters (Palinurus and allied genera). Its body is remarkably thin, flat, and transparent; the legs are very long. Called also glass-crab, and glass-shrimp. 

PHYLLOSTOME:  Any bat of the genus Phyllostoma, or allied genera, having large membranes around the mouth and nose; a nose-leaf bat. 

PHYLLOSTOMID:  A phyllostome. 

PHYLLOTACTIC:  Of or pertaining to phyllotaxy.  PHYLLOTAXY; PHYLLOTAXIS Phyl"lo*tax`y, Phyl"lo*tax`is, n. Etym: [Phyllo- + Gr. (Bot.)  The order or arrangement of leaves on the stem; the science of the relative position of leaves. 

PHYLLOUS:  Homologous with a leaf; as, the sepals, petals, stamens, and pistils are phyllous organs. 

PHYLLOXANTHIN:  A yellow coloring matter extracted from chlorophyll. 

PHYLLOXERA:  A small hemipterous insect (Phylloxera vastatrix) allied to the aphids. It attacks the roots and leaves of the grapevine, doing great damage, especially in Europe.  Note: It exists in several forms, some of which are winged, other wingless. One form produces galls on the leaves and twigs, another affects the roots, causing galls or swellings, and often killing the vine.  2. The diseased condition of a vine caused by the insect just described.  PHYLOGENESIS; PHYLOGENY Phy`lo*gen"e*sis, Phy*log"e*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. genesis, or root of Gr.  The history of genealogical development; the race history of an animal or vegetable type; the historic exolution of the phylon or tribe, in distinction from ontogeny, or the development of the individual organism, and from biogenesis, or life development generally. 

PHYLOGENETIC:  Relating to phylogenesis, or the race history of a type of organism.  -- Phy*lo*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PHYLON:  A tribe. 

PHYLUM:  One of the larger divisions of the animal kingdom; a branch; a grand division. 

PHYMA:  A tubercle on any external part of the body. 

PHYSA:  A genus of fresh-water Pulmonifera, having reversed spiral shells. See Pond snail, under Pond. 

PHYSALIA:  A genus of large oceanic Siphonophora which includes the Portuguese man-of-war.  Note: It has a large air sac, or float, with a sail-like crest on its upper side. Numerous zooids of different kinds are attached to the under side of the float. Some of the zooids have very long tentacles; some have a mouth and digest food; others produce gonophores. The American species (Physalia arethusa) is brilliantly colored, the float being pink or purple, and bright blue; the zooids blue. It is noted for its virulent stinging powers, as well as for its beautiful colors, graceful motions, and its ability to sail to windward. 

PHYSALIAE:  An order of Siphonophora which includes Physalia. 

PHYSEMARIA:  A group of simple marine organisms, usually classed as the lowest of the sponges. They have inflated hollow bodies. 

PHYSETER:  The genus that includes the sperm whale.  2. A filtering machine operated by air pressure. 

PHYSIANTHROPY:  The philosophy of human life, or the doctrine of the constitution and diseases of man, and their remedies. 

PHYSICALLY:  In a physical manner; according to the laws of nature or physics; by physical force; not morally. I am not now treating physically of light or colors. Locke.  2. According to the rules of medicine. [Obs.] He that lives physically must live miserably. Cheyne. 

PHYSICIANED:  Licensed as a physician. [Obs.] "A physicianed apothecary." Walpole. 

PHYSICISM:  The tendency of the mind toward, or its preoccupation with, physical phenomena; materialism in philosophy and religion. Anthropomorphism grows into theology, while physicism (if I may so call it) develops into science. Huxley. 

PHYSICIST:  One versed in physics.  2. (Biol.)  A believer in the theory that the fundamental phenomena of life are to be explained upon purely chemical and physical principles; -- opposed to vitalist. 

PHYSICKING:  p. pr. & vb. n. fr. Physic, v. t.  PHYSICO- Phys"i*co-. Etym: [Fr. Gr.  A combining form, denoting relation to, or dependence upon, natural causes, or the science of physics. 

PHYSICOCHEMICAL:  Involving the principles of both physics and chemistry; dependent on, or produced by, the joint action of physical and chemical agencies. Huxley. 

PHYSICOLOGIC:  Logic illustrated by physics. 

PHYSICOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to physicologic. Swift. 

PHYSICOLOGY:  Physics. [R.] -- Phys`i*col"o*gist, n. [R.]  PHYSICO-MATHEMATICS Phys`i*co-math`e*mat"ics, n. Etym: [Physico- + mathematics.]  Mixed mathematics.  PHYSICO-PHILOSOPHY Phys`i*co-phi*los"o*phy, n. Etym: [Physico- + philosophy.]  The philosophy of nature.  PHYSICO-THEOLOGY Phys`i*co-the*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Physico- + theology.]  Theology or divinity illustrated or enforced by physics or natural philosophy. 

PHYSICS:  The science of nature, or of natural objects; that branch of science which treats of the laws and properties of matter, and the forces acting upon it; especially, that department of natural science which treats of the causes (as gravitation, heat, light, magnetism, electricity, etc.) that modify the general properties of bodies; natural philosophy.  Note: Chemistry, though a branch of general physics, is commonly treated as a science by itself, and the application of physical principles which it involves constitute a branch called chemical physics, which treats more especially of those physical properties of matter which are used by chemists in defining and distinguishing substances. 

PHYSIOCRAT:  One of the followers of Quesnay of France, who, in the 18th century, founded a system of political economy based upon the supremacy of natural order. F. A. Walker.  -- Phys`i*o*crat"ic, a. 

PHYSIOGENY:  The germ history of the functions, or the history of the development of vital activities, in the individual, being one of the branches of ontogeny. See Morphogeny. Haeckel. 

PHYSIOGNOMER:  Physiognomist.  PHYSIOGNOMIC; PHYSIOGNOMICAL Phys`i*og*nom"ic, Phys`i*og*nom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. physiognomonique.]  Of or pertaining to physiognomy; according with the principles of physiognomy.  -- Phys`i*og*nom"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PHYSIOGNOMIST:  Same as Physiognomy, 1. 

PHYSIOGNOMIZE:  To observe and study the physiognomy of. [R.] Southey. 

PHYSIOGNOMMONIC:  Physiognomic. 

PHYSIOGONY:  The birth of nature. [R.] Coleridge.  PHYSIOGRAPHIC; PHYSIOGRAPHICAL Phys`i*o*graph"ic, Phys`i*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. physiographique.]  Of or pertaining to physiography. 

PHYSIOGRAPHY:  The science which treats of the earth's exterior physical features, climate, life, etc., and of the physical movements or changes on the earth's surface, as the currents of the atmosphere and ocean, the secular variations in heat, moisture, magnetism, etc.; physical geography. 

PHYSIOLATRY:  The worship of the powers or agencies of nature; materialism in religion; nature worship. "The physiolatry of the Vedas." M. Williams. 

PHYSIOLOGER:  A physiologist. 

PHYSIOLOGIC:  Physiological. 

PHYSIOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to physiology; relating to the science of the functions of living organism; as, physiological botany or chemistry. 

PHYSIOLOGICALLY:  In a physiological manner. 

PHYSIOLOGIST:  One who is versed in the science of physiology; a student of the properties and functions of animal and vegetable organs and tissues. 

PHYSIOLOGIZE:  To speculate in physiology; to make physiological investigations. Cudworth. 

PHYSIOPHYLY:  The tribal history of the functions, or the history of the paleontological development of vital activities, -- being a branch of phylogeny. See Morphophyly. Haeckel. 

PHYSIQUE:  The natural constitution, or physical structure, of a person. With his white hair and splendid physique. Mrs. Stowe. 

PHYSNOMY:  Physiogmony. [Obs.] 

PHYSOCLIST:  One of the Physoclisti. 

PHYSOCLISTI:  An order of teleost in which the air bladder has no opening. 

PHYSOGRADE:  Any siphonophore which has an air sac for a float, as the Physalia. 

PHYSOPHORAE:  An order of Siphonophora, furnished with an air sac, or float, and a series of nectocalyces. See Illust. under Nectocalyx. 

PHYSOPOD:  One of the Physopoda; a thrips. 

PHYSOPODA:  Same as Thysanoptera. 

PHYSOSTIGMINE:  An alkaloid found in the Calabar bean (the seed of Physostigma venenosum), and extracted as a white, tasteless, substance, amorphous or crystalline; -- formerly called eserine, with which it was regarded as identical. 

PHYSOSTOMI:  An order of fishes in which the air bladder is provided with a duct, and the ventral fins, when present, are abdominal. It includes the salmons, herrings, carps, catfishes, and others. 

PHYTELEPHAS:  A genus of South American palm trees, the seeds of which furnish the substance called vegetable ivory. 

PHYTIVOROUS:  Feeding on plants or herbage; phytophagous; as, phytivorous animals. Ray.  PHYTO- Phy"to-. Etym: [See Physic.]  A combining form from Gr. fyto`n a plant; as, phytochemistry, phytography. 

PHYTOCHEMICAL:  Relating to phytochemistry. R. Hunt. 

PHYTOCHEMISTRY:  Chemistry in its relation to vegetable bodies; vegetable chemistry. R. Hunt. 

PHYTOCHIMY:  Phytochemistry. [Obsoles.]  PHYTOGENESIS; PHYTOGENY Phy`to*gen"e*sis, Phy*tog"e*ny, n. Etym: [Phyto- + genesis, or root of Gr.  The doctrine of the generation of plants. 

PHYTOGEOGRAPHICAL:  Of or pertaining to phytogeography. 

PHYTOGEOGRAPHY:  The geographical distribution of plants. 

PHYTOGLYPHIC:  Relating to phytoglyphy. 

PHYTOGLYPHY:  See Nature printing, under Nature. 

PHYTOGRAPHICAL:  Of or pertaining to phytography. 

PHYTOGRAPHY:  The science of describing plants in a systematic manner; also, a description of plants. 

PHYTOID:  Resembling a plant; plantlike. 

PHYTOLACCA:  A genus of herbaceous plants, some of them having berries which abound in intensely red juice; poke, or pokeweed. 

PHYTOLITE:  An old name for a fossil plant. 

PHYTOLITHOLOGIST:  One versed in phytolithology; a paleobotanist. 

PHYTOLITHOLOGY:  The branch of science which treats of fossil plants; -- usually called paleobotany, sometimes paleophytology. 

PHYTOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to phytology; botanical. 

PHYTOLOGIST:  One skilled in phytology; a writer on plants; a botanist. Evelyn. 

PHYTOLOGY:  The science of plants; a description of the kinds and properties of plants; botany. Sir T. Browne.  PHYTOMER; PHYTOMERON Phy"to*mer, Phy*tom"e*ron, n. Etym: [NL. phytomeron, fr. Gr. (Bot.)  An organic element of a flowering plant; a phyton. 

PHYTON:  One of the parts which by their repetition make up a flowering plant, each being a single joint of a stem with its leaf or leaves; a phytomer. 

PHYTONOMY:  The science of the origin and growth of plants. 

PHYTOPATHOLOGIST:  One skilled in diseases of plants. 

PHYTOPATHOLOGY:  The science of diseases to which plants are liable. 

PHYTOPHAGA:  A division of Hymenoptera; the sawflies. 

PHYTOPHAGIC:  Phytophagous. 

PHYTOPHAGOUS:  Feeding on plants; herbivorous; as, a phytophagous animal. 

PHYTOPHAGY:  The eating of plants. 

PHYTOPHYSIOLOGY:  Vegetable physiology. 

PHYTOTOMIST:  One versed in phytotomy. 

PHYTOTOMY:  The dissection of plants; vegetable anatomy. 

PHYTOZOARIA:  Same as Infusoria.  PHYTOZOON; PHYTOZOOEN Phy`to*zo"ön, n.; pl. Phytozoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  A plantlike animal. The term is sometimes applied to zoöphytes. 

PHYZ:  See Phiz. 

PI:  A mass of type confusedly mixed or unsorted. [Written also pie.] 

PI:  To put into a mixed and disordered condition, as type; to mix and disarrange the type of; as, to pi a form. [Written also pie.] 

PIACABA:  See Piassava. 

PIACLE:  A heinous offense which requires expiation. [R.] Howell. 

PIACULARITY:  The quality or state of being piacular; criminality; wickedness. De Quincey. 

PIACULOUS:  Same as Piacular. 

PIAL:  Pertaining to the pia mater.  PIA MATER Pi"a ma"ter. Etym: [NL., fr. L. pia (fem. of pius tender, kind) + mater mother.] (Anat.)  The delicate and highly vascular membrane immediately investing the brain and spinal cord. 

PIAN:  The yaws. See Yaws. 

PIANETTE:  A small piano; a pianino. 

PIANINO:  A pianette, or small piano. 

PIANISSIMO:  Very soft; -- a direction to execute a passage as softly as possible. (Abbrev. pp.) 

PIANIST:  A performer, esp. a skilled performer, on the piano. 

PIANO:  Soft; -- a direction to the performer to execute a certain passage softly, and with diminished volume of tone. (Abbrev. p.)  PIANO; PIANOFORTE Pi*an"o, Pi*an"o*for`te, n. Etym: [It. piano soft (fr. L. planus even, smooth; see Plain, a.) + It. forte strong, fr. L. fortis (see Fort).] (Mus.)  A well-known musical instrument somewhat resembling the harpsichord, and consisting of a sreies of wires of graduated length, thickness, and tension, struck by hammers moved by keys. Dumb piano. See Digitorium.  -- Grand piano. See under Grand.  -- Square piano, one with a horizontal frame and an oblong case.  -- Upright piano, one with an upright frame and vertical wires. 

PIANOGRAPH:  A form of melodiograph applied to a piano. 

PIAPEC:  A West African pie (Ptilostomus Senegalensis). 

PIARIST:  One of a religious order who are the regular clerks of the Scuole Pie (religious schools), an institute of secondary education, founded at Rome in the last years of the 16th century. Addis & Arnold. 

PIASSAVA:  A fibrous product of two Brazilian palm trees (Attalea funifera and Leopoldinia Piassaba), -- used in making brooms, and for other purposes. Called also piaçaba and piasaba. 

PIASTER:  A silver coin of Spain and various other countries. See Peso. The Spanish piaster (commonly called peso, or peso duro) is of about the value of the American dollar. The Italian piaster, or scudo, was worth from 80 to 100 cents. The Turkish and Egyptian piasters are now worth about four and a half cents. 

PIASTRE:  See Piaster. 

PIATION:  The act of making atonement; expiation. [Obs.] 

PIATTI:  Cymbals. [Written also pyatti.] 

PIAZZA:  An open square in a European town, especially an Italian town; hence (Arch.), an arcaded and roofed gallery; a portico. In the United States the word is popularly applied to a veranda. We walk by the obelisk, and meditate in piazzas. Jer. Taylor. 

PIBCORN:  A wind instrument or pipe, with a horn at each end, -- used in Wales. 

PIBROCH:  A Highland air, suited to the particular passion which the musician would either excite or assuage; generally applied to those airs that are played on the bagpipe before the Highlanders when they go out to battle. Jamieson. 

PIC:  A Turkish cloth measure, varying from 18 to 28 inches. 

PICA:  The genus that includes the magpies.  2. (Med.)  A vitiated appetite that craves what is unfit for food, as chalk, ashes, coal, etc.; chthonophagia.  3. (R. C. Ch.)  A service-book. See Pie. [Obs.]  4. (Print.)  A size of type next larger than small pica, and smaller than English.  Note: This line is printed in pica  Note: Pica is twice the size of nonpareil, and is used as a standard of measurement in casting leads, cutting rules, etc., and also as a standard by which to designate several larger kinds of type, as double pica, two-line pica, four-line pica, and the like. Small pica (Print.), a size of type next larger than long primer, and smaller than pica.  Note: This line is printed in small pica 

PICADOR:  A horseman armed with a lance, who in a bullfight receives the first attack of the bull, and excites him by picking him without attempting to kill him. 

PICAMAR:  An oily liquid hydrocarbon extracted from the creosote of beechwood tar. It consists essentially of certain derivatives of pyrogallol. 

PICAPARE:  The finfoot. 

PICARD:  One of a sect of Adamites in the fifteenth century; -- so called from one Picard of Flanders. See Adamite. 

PICARESQUE:  Applied to that class of literature in which the principal personage is the Spanish picaro, meaning a rascal, a knave, a rogue, an adventurer. 

PICARIAE:  An extensive division of birds which includes the woodpeckers, toucans, trogons, hornbills, kingfishers, motmots, rollers, and goatsuckers. By some writers it is made to include also the cuckoos, swifts, and humming birds. 

PICARIAN:  Of or pertaining to Picariæ.  -- n.  One of the Picariæ. 

PICAROON:  One who plunders; especially, a plunderer of wrecks; a pirate; a corsair; a marauder; a sharper. Sir W. Temple. 

PICAYUNE:  A small coin of the value of six and a quarter cents. See Fippenny bit. [Local, U.S.] 

PICAYUNISH:  Petty; paltry; mean; as, a picayunish business. [Colloq. U.S.]  PICCADIL; PICCADILLY Pic"ca*dil, Pic`ca*dil"ly, n. Etym: [OF. piccagilles the several divisions of pieces fastened together about the brim of the collar of a doublet, a dim. fr. Sp. picado, p.p. of picar to prick. See Pike.]  A high, stiff collar for the neck; also, a hem or band about the skirt of a garment, -- worn by men in the 17th century. 

PICCAGE:  Money paid at fairs for leave to break ground for booths. Ainsworth. 

PICCALILLI:  A pickle of various vegetables with pungent species, -- originally made in the East Indies. 

PICCOLO:  A small, shrill flute, the pitch of which is an octave higher than the ordinary flute; an octave flute.  2. (Mus.)  A small upright piano.  3. (Mus.)  An organ stop, with a high, piercing tone. 

PICE:  A small copper coin of the East Indies, worth less than a cent. Malcom. 

PICEA:  A genus of coniferous trees of the northen hemisphere, including the Norway spruce and the American black and white spruces. These trees have pendent cones, which do not readily fall to pieces, in this and other respects differing from the firs. 

PICENE:  A hydrocarbon (C 

PICEOUS:  Of or pertaining to pitch; resembling pitch in color or quality; pitchy. 

PICHEY:  A Brazilian armadillo (Dasypus minutus); the little armadillo. [Written also pichiy.] 

PICHICIAGO:  A small, burrowing, South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus), allied to the armadillos. The shell is attached only along the back. [Written also pichyciego.]  PICHURIM BEAN Pich"u*rim bean`. (Bot.)  The seed of a Brazilian lauraceous tree (Nectandra Puchury) of a taste and smell between those of nutmeg and of sassafras, -- sometimes used medicinally. Called also sassafras nut. 

PICI:  A division of birds including the woodpeckers and wrynecks. 

PICIFORM:  Of or pertaining to Piciformes. 

PICIFORMES:  A group of birds including the woodpeckers, toucans, barbets, colies, kingfishes, hornbills, and some other related groups. 

PICINE:  Of or pertaining to the woodpeckers (Pici), or to the Piciformes. 

PICK:  A heavy iron tool, curved and sometimes pointed at both ends, wielded by means of a wooden handle inserted in the middle, -- used by quarrymen, roadmakers, etc.; also, a pointed hammer used for dressing millstones.  3. A pike or spike; the sharp point fixed in the center of a buckler. [Obs.] "Take down my buckler . . . and grind the pick on 't." Beau. & Fl.  4. Choice; right of selection; as, to have one's pick. France and Russia have the pick of our stables. Ld. Lytton.  5. That which would be picked or chosen first; the best; as, the pick of the flock.  6. (Print.)  A particle of ink or paper imbedded in the hollow of a letter, filling up its face, and occasioning a spot on a printed sheet. MacKellar.  7. (Painting)  That which is picked in, as with a pointed pencil, to correct an unevenness in a picture.  8. (Weawing)  The blow which drives the shuttle, -- the rate of speed of a loom being reckoned as so many picks per minute; hence, in describing the fineness of a fabric, a weft thread; as, so many picks to an inch. Pick dressing (Arch.), in cut stonework, a facing made by a pointed tool, leaving the surface in little pits or depressions.  -- Pick hammer, a pick with one end sharp and the other blunt, used by miners. 

PICKABACK:  On the back or shoulders; as, to ride pickback. [Written also pickapack, pickback, and pickpack.] A woman stooping to take a child pickaback. R,Jefferies. 

PICKANINNY:  A small child; especially, a negro or mulatto infant. [U.S. & West Indies] 

PICKAPACK:  Pickaback.  PICKAX; PICKAXE Pick"ax`, Pick"axe`, n. Etym: [A corruption of OE. pikois, pikeis, F. picois, fr. pic. See Pick, n.]  A pick with a point at one end, a transverse edge or blade at the other, and a handle inserted at the middle; a hammer with a flattened end for driving wedges and a pointed end for piercing as it strikes. Shak. 

PICKBACK:  On the back. 

PICKED:  Having a pike or spine on the back; -- said of certain fishes.  3. Carefully selected; chosen; as, picked men.  4. Fine; spruce; smart; precise; dianty. [Obs.] Shak. Picked dogfish. (Zoöl.) See under Dogfish.  -- Picked out, ornamented or relieved with lines, or the like, of a different, usually a lighter, color; as, a carriage body dark green, picked out with red. 

PICKEER:  To make a raid for booty; to maraud; also, to skirmish in advance of an army. See Picaroon. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 

PICKEERER:  One who pickeers. [Obs.] 

PICKER:  A machine for picking fibrous materials to pieces so as to loosen and separate the fiber.  3. (Weaving)  The piece in a loom which strikes the end of the shuttle, and impels it through the warp.  4. (Ordnance)  A priming wire for cleaning the vent. 

PICKERING:  The sauger of the St.Lawrence River. 

PICKERY:  Petty theft. [Scot.] Holinshed. 

PICKET:  A detached body of troops serving to guard an army from surprise, and to oppose reconnoitering parties of the enemy; -- called also outlying picket.  4. By extension, men appointed by a trades union, or other labor organization, to intercept outsiders, and prevent them from working for employers with whom the organization is at variance. [Cant]  5. A military punishment, formerly resorted to, in which the offender was forced to stand with one foot on a pointed stake.  6. A game at cards. See Piquet. Inlying picket (Mil.), a detachment of troops held in camp or quarters, detailed to march if called upon.  -- Picket fence, a fence made of pickets. See def. 2, above.  -- Picket guard (Mil.), a guard of horse and foot, always in readiness in case of alarm.  -- Picket line. (Mil.) (a) A position held and guarded by small bodies of men placed at intervals. (b) A rope to which horses are secured when groomed.  -- Picketpin, an iron pin for picketing horses. 

PICKETEE:  See Picotee.  PICK-FAULT Pick"-fault`, n.  One who seeks out faults. 

PICKING:  The pulverized shells of oysters used in making walks. [Eng.] Simmonds.  6. (Mining)  Rough sorting of ore.  7. Overburned bricks. Simmonds. 

PICKLE:  See Picle. 

PICKLE:  A bath of dilute sulphuric or nitric acid, etc., to remove burnt sand, scale rust, etc., from the surface of castings, or other articles of metal, or to brighten them or improve their color.  4. A troublesome child; as, a little pickle. [Colloq.] To be in a pickle, to be in disagreeable position; to be in a condition of embarrassment, difficulty, or disorder. "How cam'st thou in this pickle" Shak.  -- To put a rod in pickle, to prepare a particular reproof, punishment, or penalty for future application. 

PICKLED:  Preserved in a pickle.  PICKLE-HERRING Pic"kle-her"ring, n.  1. A herring preserved in brine; a pickled herring. [Obs.] Shak.  2. A merry-andrew; a buffoon. [Obs.] Addison. 

PICKLER:  One who makes pickles. 

PICKLOCK:  A stimulant, restorative, or tonic; a bracer. [Colloq.] 

PICKMIRE:  The pewit, or black-headed gull. [Prov. Eng.] 

PICKNICK:  See Picnic. 

PICKPACK:  Pickaback. 

PICKPENNY:  A miser; also, a sharper. Dr. H. More. 

PICKPOCKET:  One who steals purses or other articles from pockets. Bentley. 

PICKPURSE:  One who steals purses, or money from purses. Latimer. Shak. 

PICKSY:  See Pixy. 

PICKTHANK:  One who strives to put another under obligation; an officious person; hence, a flatterer. Used also adjectively. Smiling pickthanks, and base newsmongers. Shak. 

PICKTOOTH:  A toothpick. [Obs.] Swift.  PICK-UP; PICKUP Pick"-up, or Pick"up`, n. [Colloq., Cant. or Slang]  1. Act of picking up, as, in various games, the fielding or hitting of a ball just after it strikes the ground.  2.  That which picks up; specif.: (Elec.)  = Brush b.  3.  One that is picked up, as a meal hastily got up for the occasion, a chance acquaintance, an informal game, etc.  PICLE; PICKLE Pi"cle, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. pightel or pingle.]  A small piece of land inclosed with a hedge; a close. [Obs.] [Written also pickle.]  PI CLOTH Pi"ña cloth`.  A fine material for ladies' shawls, scarfs, handkerchiefs, etc., made from the fiber of the pineapple leaf, and perhaps from other fibrous tropical leaves. It is delicate, soft, and transparent, with a slight tinge of pale yellow.  PI CLOTH Pi`ña cloth. [See Piña.]  A fine fabric for scarfs, handkerchiefs, embroidery, etc., woven from the fiber obtained from the leaf of the sterile pineapple plant. It is delicate, soft, and transparent, with a tinge of pale yellow. 

PICNIC:  Formerly, an entertainment at which each person contributed some dish to a common table; now, an excursion or pleasure party in which the members partake of a collation or repast (usually in the open air, and from food carried by themselves). 

PICNIC:  To go on a picnic, or pleasure excursion; to eat in public fashion. 

PICNICKER:  One who takes part in a picnic. 

PICOID:  Like or pertaining to the Pici. 

PICOLINE:  Any one of three isometric bases (C6H7N) related to pyridine, and obtained from bone oil, acrolein ammonia, and coal-tar naphtha, as colorless mobile liquids of strong odor; -- called also methyl pyridine. 

PICOT:  One of many small loops, as of thread, forming an ornamental border, as on a ribbon.  PICOTEE; PICOTINE Pic`o*tee", Pic`o*tine", n. Etym: [F. picoté dotted, picked.] (Bot.)  A variety of carnation having petals of a light color variously dotted and spotted at the edges. 

PICQUET:  See Piquet. 

PICRA:  The powder of aloes with canella, formerly officinal, employed as a cathartic. 

PICRATE:  A salt of picric acid. 

PICRIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a strong organic acid (called picric acid), intensely bitter.  Note: Picric acid is obtained by treating phenol with strong nitric acid, as a brilliant yellow crystalline substance, C6H2(NO2)3.OH. It is used in dyeing silk and wool, and also in the manufacture of explosives, as it is very unstable when heated. Called also trinitrophenol, and formerly carbazotic acid. 

PICRITE:  A dark green igneous rock, consisting largely of chrysolite, with hornblende, augite, biotite, etc. 

PICROLITE:  A fibrous variety of serpentine. 

PICROMEL:  A colorless viscous substance having a bitter-sweet taste.  Note: It was formerly supposed to be the essential principle of the bile, but is now known to be a mixture, principally of salts of glycocholic and taurocholic acids. 

PICROTOXIN:  A bitter white crystalline substance found in the cocculus indicus. It is a peculiar poisonous neurotic and intoxicant, and consists of a mixture of several neutral substances. 

PICRYL:  The hypothetical radical of picric acid, analogous to phenyl. 

PICTISH:  Of or pertaining to Picts; resembling the Picts. "The Pictish peer." Byron. 

PICTOGRAPH:  A picture or hieroglyph representing and expressing an idea.  -- Pic`to*graph"ic, a. 

PICTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to pictures; illustrated by pictures; forming pictures; representing with the clearness of a picture; as, a pictorial dictionary; a pictorial imagination. "Pictorial rhetoric." Ruskin.  -- Pic*to"ri*al*ly, adv.  PICTORIC; PICTORICAL Pic*tor"ic, Pic*tor"ic*al, a.  Pictorial. [Obs.] 

PICTS:  A race of people of uncertain origin, who inhabited Scotland in early times. 

PICTURA:  Pattern of coloration. 

PICTURABLE:  Capable of being pictured, or represented by a picture. 

PICTURAL:  Pictorial. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

PICTURAL:  A picture. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PICTURE:  To draw or paint a resemblance of; to delineate; to represent; to form or present an ideal likeness of; to bring before the mind. "I . . . do picture it in my mind." Spenser. I have not seen him so pictured. Shak. 

PICTURED:  Furnished with pictures; represented by a picture or pictures; as, a pictured scene. 

PICTURER:  One who makes pictures; a painter. [R.] Fuller. 

PICTURESQUE:  Forming, or fitted to form, a good or pleasing picture; representing with the clearness or ideal beauty appropriate to a picture; expressing that peculiar kind of beauty which is agreeable in a picture, natural or artificial; graphic; vivid; as, a picturesque scene or attitude; picturesque language. What is picturesque as placed in relation to the beautiful and the sublime It is . . . the characteristic pushed into a sensible excess. De Quincey.  -- Pic`tur*esque"ly, adv.  -- Pic`tur*esque"ness, n. 

PICTURESQUISH:  Somewhat picturesque. [R.] 

PICUL:  A commercial weight varying in different countries and for different commodities. In Borneo it is 135tan. [Written also pecul, and pecal.] 

PICULET:  Any species of very small woodpeckers of the genus Picumnus and allied genera. Their tail feathers are not stiff and sharp at the tips, as in ordinary woodpeckers. 

PICUS:  A genus of woodpeckers, including some of the common American and European species. 

PIDDLER:  One who piddles. 

PIDDLING:  Trifling; trivial; frivolous; paltry; -- applied to persons and things. The ignoble hucksterage of piddling tithes. Milton. 

PIDDOCK:  Any species of Pholas; a pholad. See Pholas. 

PIE:  The service book.  3. (Pritn.)  Type confusedly mixed. See Pi. By cock and pie, an adjuration equivalent to "by God and the service book." Shak.  -- Tree pie (Zoöl.), any Asiatic bird of the genus Dendrocitta, allied to the magpie.  -- Wood pie. (Zoöl.) See French pie, under French. 

PIE:  See Pi. 

PIECE:  One of the superior men, distinguished from a pawn.  6. A castle; a fortified building. [Obs.] Spenser. Of a piece, of the same sort, as if taken from the same whole; like; -- sometimes followed by with. Dryden.  -- Piece of eight, the Spanish piaster, formerly divided into eight reals.  -- To give a piece of one's mind to, to speak plainly, bluntly, or severely to (another). Tackeray.  -- Piece broker, one who buys shreds and remnants of cloth to sell again.  -- Piece goods, goods usually sold by pieces or fixed portions, as shirtings, calicoes, sheetings, and the like. 

PIECE:  To unite by a coalescence of parts; to fit together; to join. "It pieced better." Bacon. 

PIECELESS:  Not made of pieces; whole; entire. 

PIECELY:  In pieces; piecemeal. [Obs.] 

PIECEMEAL:  Made up of parts or pieces; single; separate. "These piecemeal guilts." Gov. of Tongue. 

PIECEMEAL:  A fragment; a scrap. R. Vaughan. 

PIECEMEALED:  Divided into pieces. 

PIECEWORK:  Work done by the piece or job; work paid for at a rate based on the amount of work done, rather than on the time employed. The reaping was piecework, at so much per acre. R. Jefferies. 

PIED:  imp. & p. p. of Pi, or Pie, v. 

PIED:  Variegated with spots of different colors; party-colored; spotted; piebald. "Pied coats." Burton. "Meadows trim with daisies pied." Milton. Pied antelope (Zoöl.), the bontebok.  -- Pied-billed grebe (Zoöl.), the dabchick.  -- Pied blackbird (Zoöl.), any Asiatic thrush of the genus Turdulus.  -- Pied finch (Zoöl.) (a) The chaffinch. (b) The snow bunting. [Prov. Eng.] -- Pied flycatcher (Zoöl.), a common European flycatcher (Ficedula atricapilla). The male is black and white. 

PIEDMONT:  Noting the region of foothills near the base of a mountain chain. 

PIEDMONTITE:  A manganesian kind of epidote, from Piedmont. See Epidote. 

PIEDNESS:  The state of being pied. Shak. 

PIEDOUCHE:  A pedestal of small size, used to support small objects, as busts, vases, and the like. 

PIEDSTALL:  See Pedestal. [Obs.] 

PIEMAN:  A man who makes or sells pies. 

PIEND:  See Peen. 

PIENO:  Full; having all the instruments. 

PIEPLANT:  A plant (Rheum Rhaponticum) the leafstalks of which are acid, and are used in making pies; the garden rhubarb.  PIEPOUDRE; PIEPOWDER Pie"pou`dre, Pie"pow`der, n. Etym: [Lit., dustyfoot, i.e., dusty- footed dealers, fr. F. pied foot + poudreux dusty.] (O. Eng. Law)  An ancient court of record in England, formerly incident to every fair and market, of which the steward of him who owned or had the toll was the judge. Blackstone. 

PIERAGE:  Same as Wharfage. Smart. 

PIERCE:  To enter; to penetrate; to make a way into or through something, as a pointed instrument does; -- used literally and figuratively. And pierced to the skin, but bit no more. Spenser. She would not pierce further into his meaning. Sir P. Sidney. 

PIERCEABLE:  That may be pierced. 

PIERCED:  Penetrated; entered; perforated. 

PIERCEL:  A kind of gimlet for making vents in casks; -- called also piercer. 

PIERCING:  Forcibly entering, or adapted to enter, at or by a point; perforating; penetrating; keen; -- used also figuratively; as, a piercing instrument, or thrust. "Piercing eloquence." Shak.  -- Pier"cing*ly, adv.  -- Pier"cing*ness, n. 

PIERIAN:  Of or pertaining to Pierides or Muses. Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring. Pope. 

PIERID:  Any butterfly of the genus Pieris and related genera. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage. 

PIERIDES:  The Muses.  PIERRE-PERDU Pierre`-per`du", n. [F. pierre perdue lost stone.]  Blocks of stone or concrete heaped loosely in the water to make a foundation (as for a sea wall), a mole, etc. 

PIETA:  A representation of the dead Christ, attended by the Virgin Mary or by holy women and angels. Mollett. 

PIETIST:  One of a class of religious reformers in Germany in the 17th century who sought to revive declining piety in the Protestant churches; -- often applied as a term of reproach to those who make a display of religious feeling. Also used adjectively.  PIETISTIC; PIETISTICAL Pi`e*tis"tic, Pi`e*tis"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the Pietists; hence, in contempt, affectedly or demonstratively religious. Addison.  PIETRA DURA Pi*e"tra du"ra. Etym: [It., hard stone.] (Fine Arts)  Hard and fine stones in general, such as are used for inlay and the like, as distinguished from the softer stones used in building; thus, a Florentine mosaic is a familiar instance of work in pietra dura, though the ground may be soft marble. 

PIEWIPE:  The lapwing, or pewit. [Prov. Eng.] 

PIEZOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the compressibility of liquids.  2. (Physics)  A gauge connected with a water main to show the pressure at that point.  PIFFERO; PIFFARA Pif"fe*ro, Pif"fa*ra, n. Etym: [It. piffero.] (Mus.)  A fife; also, a rude kind of oboe or a bagpipe with an inflated skin for reservoir. 

PIFFLE:  To be sequeamish or delicate; hence, to act or talk triflingly or ineffectively; to twaddle; piddle. [Dial. or Slang] 

PIFFLE:  Act of piffling; trifling talk or action; piddling; twaddle. [Dial. or Slang] "Futile piffle." Kipling. 

PIG:  A piggin. [Written also pigg.] 

PIG:  Any wild species of the genus Sus and related genera.  3. Etym: [Cf. Sow a channel for melted iron.]  An oblong mass of cast iron, lead, or other metal. See Mine pig, under Mine.  4. One who is hoggish; a greedy person. [Low] Masked pig. (Zoöl.) See under Masked.  -- Pig bed (Founding), the bed of sand in which the iron from a smelting furnace is cast into pigs.  -- Pig iron, cast iron in pigs, or oblong blocks or bars, as it comes from the smelting furnace. See Pig, 4.  -- Pig yoke (Naut.), a nickname for a quadrant or sextant.  -- A pig in a poke (that is, bag), a blind bargain; something bought or bargained for, without the quality or the value being known. [Colloq.] 

PIGEON:  Any bird of the order Columbæ, of which numerous species occur in nearly all parts of the world.  Note: The common domestic pigeon, or dove, was derived from the Old World rock pigeon (Columba livia). It has given rise to numerous very remarkable varieties, such as the carrier, fantail, nun, pouter, tumbler, etc. The common wild pigeons of the Eastern United States are the passenger pigeon, and the Carolina dove. See under Passenger, and Dove. See, also, Fruit pigeon, Ground pigeon, Queen pigeon, Stock pigeon, under Fruit, Ground, etc.  2. An unsuspected victim of sharpers; a gull. [Slang] Blue pigeon (Zoöl.), an Australian passerine bird (Graucalus melanops); -- called also black-faced crow.  -- Green pigeon (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of Old World pigeons belonging to the family Treronidæ.  -- Imperial pigeon (Zoöl.), any one of the large Asiatic fruit pigeons of the genus Carpophada.  -- Pigeon berry (Bot.), the purplish black fruit of the pokeweed; also, the plant itself. See Pokeweed.  -- Pigeon English Etym: [perhaps a corruption of business English], an extraordinary and grotesque dialect, employed in the commercial cities of China, as the medium of communication between foreign merchants and the Chinese. Its base is English, with a mixture of Portuguese and Hindoostanee. Johnson's Cyc.  -- Pigeon grass (Bot.), a kind of foxtail grass (Setaria glauca), of some value as fodder. The seeds are eagerly eaten by pigeons and other birds.  -- Pigeon hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A small American falcon (Falco columbarius). The adult male is dark slate-blue above, streaked with black on the back; beneath, whitish or buff, streaked with brown. The tail is banded. (b) The American sharp-shinned hawk (Accipiter velox, or fuscus).  -- Pigeon hole. (a) A hole for pigeons to enter a pigeon house. (b) See Pigeonhole. (c) pl. An old English game, in which balls were rolled through little arches. Halliwell.  -- Pigeon house, a dovecote.  -- Pigeon pea (Bot.), the seed of Cajanus Indicus; a kind of pulse used for food in the East and West Indies; also, the plant itself.  -- Pigeon plum (Bot.), the edible drupes of two West African species of Chrysobalanus (C. ellipticus and C. luteus).  -- Pigeon tremex. (Zoöl.) See under Tremex.  -- Pigeon wood (Bot.), a name in the West Indies for the wood of several very different kinds of trees, species of Dipholis, Diospyros, and Coccoloba.  -- Pigeon woodpecker (Zoöl.), the flicker.  -- Prairie pigeon. (Zoöl.) (a) The upland plover. (b) The golden plover. [Local, U.S.] 

PIGEON:  To pluck; to fleece; to swindle by tricks in gambling. [Slang] Smart. He's pigeoned and undone. Observer.  PIGEON-BREASTED Pi"geon-breast`ed, a.  Having a breast like a pigeon, -- the sternum being so prominent as to constitute a deformity; chicken-breasted. 

PIGEONFOOT:  The dove's-foot geranium (Geranium molle).  PIGEON-HEARTED Pi"geon-heart`ed, a.  Timid; easily frightened; chicken-hearted. Beau. & Fl. 

PIGEONHOLE:  A small compartment in a desk or case for the keeping of letters, documents, etc.; -- so called from the resemblance of a row of them to the compartments in a dovecote. Burke. 

PIGEONHOLE:  To place in the pigeonhole of a case or cabinet; hence, to put away; to lay aside indefinitely; as, to pigeonhole a letter or a report.  PIGEON-LIVERED Pi"geon-liv`ered, a.  Pigeon-hearted. 

PIGEONRY:  A place for pigeons; a dovecote. 

PIGEONTOED:  Having the toes turned in. 

PIGEONWING:  Having small, deep-set eyes. 

PIGFOOT:  A marine fish (Scorpæna porcus), native of Europe. It is reddish brown, mottled with dark brown and black. 

PIGG:  A piggin. See 1st Pig. Sir W. Scott. 

PIGGERY:  A place where swine are kept. 

PIGGIN:  A small wooden pail or tub with an upright stave for a handle, -- often used as a dipper. 

PIGGISH:  Relating to, or like, a pig; greedy.  PIG-HEADED Pig"-head`ed, a.  Having a head like a pig; hence, figuratively: stupidity obstinate; perverse; stubborn. B. Jonson.  -- Pig"-head`ed*ness, n. 

PIGHT:  Pitched; fixed; determined. [Obs.] [His horse] pight him on the pommel of his head. Chaucer. I found him pight to do it. Shak. 

PIGHTEL:  A small inclosure. [Written also pightle.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]  PIG-JAWED Pig"-jawed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the upper jaw projecting beyond the lower, with the upper incisors in advance of the lower; -- said of dogs. 

PIGMEAN:  See Pygmean. 

PIGMENT:  Any one of the colored substances found in animal and vegetable tissues and fluids, as bilirubin, urobilin, chlorophyll, etc.  3. Wine flavored with species and honey. Sir W. Scott. Pigment cell (Physiol.), a small cell containing coloring matter, as the pigmented epithelial cells of the choroid and iris, or the pigmented connective tissue cells in the skin of fishes, reptiles, etc.  PIGMENTAL; PIGMENTARY Pig*men"tal, Pig"men*ta*ry, a.  Of or pertaining to pigments; furnished with pigments. Dunglison. Pigmentary degeneration (Med.), a morbid condition in which an undue amount of pigment is deposited in the tissues. 

PIGMENTATION:  A deposition, esp. an excessive deposition, of coloring matter; as, pigmentation of the liver. 

PIGMENTED:  Colored; specifically (Biol.), filled or imbued with pigment; as, pigmented epithelial cells; pigmented granules. 

PIGMENTOUS:  Pigmental. 

PIGMY:  See Pygmy. Pigmy falcon. (Zoöl.) Same as Falconet, 2 (a). 

PIGNORATION:  The taking of cattle doing damage, by way of pledge, till satisfaction is made. Burrill. 

PIGNORATIVE:  Pledging, pawning. [R.] 

PIGNUS:  A pledge or pawn. 

PIGPEN:  A pen, or sty, for pigs. 

PIGSKIN:  The skin of a pig, -- used chiefly for making saddles; hence, a colloquial or slang term for a saddle. 

PIGSNEY:  A word of endearment for a girl or woman. [Obs.] [Written also pigsnie, pigsny, etc.] Chaucer.  PIG-STICKING Pig"-stick`ing, n.  Boar hunting; -- so called by Anglo-Indians. [Colloq.] Tackeray. 

PIGSTY:  A pigpen. 

PIGTAIL:  A cue, or queue. J. & H. Smith.  3. A kind of twisted chewing tobacco. The tobacco he usually cheweth, called pigtail. Swift. 

PIGTAILED:  Having a tail like a pig's; as, the pigtailed baboon. 

PIGWEED:  A name of several annual weeds. See Goosefoot, and Lamb's- quarters. 

PIGWIDGEON:  A cant word for anything petty or small. It is used by Drayton as the name of a fairy. 

PIKA:  Any one of several species of rodents of the genus Lagomys, resembling small tailless rabbits. They inhabit the high mountains of Asia and America. Called also calling hare, and crying hare. See Chief hare. 

PIKE:  A foot soldier's weapon, consisting of a long wooden shaft or staff, with a pointed steel head. It is now superseded by the bayonet.  2. A pointed head or spike; esp., one in the center of a shield or target. Beau. & Fl.  3. A hayfork. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Tusser.  4. A pick. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. Raymond.  5. A pointed or peaked hill. [R.]  6. A large haycock. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  7. A turnpike; a toll bar. Dickens.  8. (Zoöl.) sing. & pl.  A large fresh-water fish (Esox lucius), found in Europe and America, highly valued as a food fish; -- called also pickerel, gedd, luce, and jack.  Note: Blue pike, grass pike, green pike, wall-eyed pike, and yellow pike, are names, not of true pike, but of the wall-eye. See Wall-eye. Gar pike. See under Gar.  -- Pike perch (Zoöl.), any fresh-water fish of the genus Stizostedion (formerly Lucioperca). See Wall-eye, and Sauger.  -- Pike pole, a long pole with a pike in one end, used in directing floating logs.  -- Pike whale (Zoöl.), a finback whale of the North Atlantic (Balænoptera rostrata), having an elongated snout; -- called also piked whale.  -- Sand pike (Zoöl.), the lizard fish.  -- Sea pike (Zoöl.), the garfish (a). 

PIKED:  Furnished with a pike; ending in a point; peaked; pointed. "With their piked targets bearing them down." Milton.  PIKE-DEVANT Pike`-de*vant", n. Etym: [Pike point (fr. F. pique) + F. devant before.]  A pointed beard. [Obs.]  PIKELET; PIKELIN Pike"let, Pike"lin, n.  A light, thin cake or muffin. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

PIKETAIL:  See Pintail, 1. 

PIKROLITE:  See Picrolite. 

PILAGE:  See Pelage. 

PILASTER:  An upright architectural member right-angled in plan, constructionally a pier (See Pier, 1 (b)), but architecturally corresponding to a column, having capital, shaft, and base to agree with those of the columns of the same order. In most cases the projection from the wall is one third of its width, or less. 

PILASTERED:  Furnished with pilasters. 

PILAU:  See Pillau. 

PILCH:  A gown or case of skin, or one trimmed or lined with fur. [Obs.] 

PILCHARD:  A small European food fish (Clupea pilchardus) resembling the herring, but thicker and rounder. It is sometimes taken in great numbers on the coast of England. Fools are as like husbands as pilchards are to herrings. Shak. 

PILCHER:  A scabbard, as of a sword. [Obs.] Shak. 

PILCHER:  The pilchard. 

PILCROW:  a paragraph mark, . [Obs.] Tusser. 

PILE:  A covering of hair or fur. 

PILE:  The head of an arrow or spear. [Obs.] Chapman. 

PILE:  One of the ordinaries or subordinaries having the form of a wedge, usually placed palewise, with the broadest end uppermost. Pile bridge, a bridge of which the roadway is supported on piles.  -- Pile cap, a beam resting upon and connecting the heads of piles.  -- Pile driver, or Pile engine, an apparatus for driving down piles, consisting usually of a high frame, with suitable appliances for raising to a height (by animal or steam power, the explosion of gunpowder, etc.) a heavy mass of iron, which falls upon the pile.  -- Pile dwelling. See Lake dwelling, under Lake.  -- Pile plank (Hydraul. Eng.), a thick plank used as a pile in sheet piling. See Sheet piling, under Piling.  -- Pneumatic pile. See under Pneumatic.  -- Screw pile, one with a screw at the lower end, and sunk by rotation aided by pressure. 

PILE:  To drive piles into; to fill with piles; to strengthen with piles. To sheet-pile, to make sheet piling in or around. See Sheet piling, under 2nd Piling. 

PILE:  Same as Fagot, n., 2.  6. (Elec.)  A vertical series of alternate disks of two dissimilar metals, as copper and zinc, laid up with disks of cloth or paper moistened with acid water between them, for producing a current of electricity; -- commonly called Volta's pile, voltaic pile, or galvanic pile.  Note: The term is sometimes applied to other forms of apparatus designed to produce a current of electricity, or as synonymous with battery; as, for instance, to an apparatus for generating a current of electricity by the action of heat, usually called a thermopile.  7. Etym: [F. pile pile, an engraved die, L. pila a pillar.]  The reverse of a coin. See Reverse. Cross and pile. See under Cross.  -- Dry pile. See under Dry. 

PILE:  Having a crest covering the pileus, or whole top of the head. Pileated woodpecker (Zoöl.), a large American woodpecker (Ceophloeus pileatus). It is black, with a bright red pointed crest. Called also logcock, and woodcock. 

PILED:  Having a pile or point; pointed. [Obs.] "Magus threw a spear well piled." Chapman. 

PILED:  Having a pile or nap. "Three-piled velvet." L. Barry (1611). 

PILED:  Formed from a pile or fagot; as, piled iron. 

PILEIFORM:  Having the form of a pileus or cap; pileate. 

PILEMENT:  An accumulation; a heap. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

PILENTUM:  An easy chariot or carriage, used by Roman ladies, and in which the vessels, etc., for sacred rites were carried. 

PILEORHIZA:  A cap of cells which covers the growing extremity of a root; a rootcap. 

PILEOUS:  Consisting of, or covered with, hair; hairy; pilose. 

PILER:  One who places things in a pile. 

PILES:  The small, troublesome tumors or swellings about the anus and lower part of the rectum which are technically called hemorrhoids. See Hemorrhoids.  Note: [The singular pile is sometimes used.] Blind piles, hemorrhoids which do not bleed. 

PILEUS:  A kind of skull cap of felt.  2. (Bot.)  The expanded upper portion of many of the fungi. See Mushroom.  3. (Zoöl.)  The top of the head of a bird, from the bill to the nape. 

PILEWORM:  The teredo.  PILE-WORN Pile"-worn`, a.  Having the pile worn off; threadbare. 

PILEWORT:  A plant (Ranunculus Ficaria of Linnæus) whose tuberous roots have been used in poultices as a specific for the piles. Forsyth. 

PILFER:  To steal in small quantities, or articles of small value; to practice petty theft. 

PILFER:  To take by petty theft; to filch; to steal little by little. And not a year but pilfers as he goes Some youthful grace that age would gladly keep. Cowper. 

PILFERER:  One who pilfers; a petty thief. 

PILFERING:  Thieving in a small way. Shak.  -- n.  Petty theft.  -- Pil"fer*ing*ly, adv. 

PILFERY:  Petty theft. [R.] Sir T. North. 

PILGARLIC:  One who has lost his hair by disease; a sneaking fellow, or one who is hardly used. 

PILGRIM:  Of or pertaining to a pilgrim, or pilgrims; making pilgrimages. "With pilgrim steps." Milton. Pilgrim fathers, a name popularly given to the one hundred and two English colonists who landed from the Mayflower and made the first settlement in New England at Plymouth in 1620. They were separatists from the Church of England, and most of them had sojourned in Holland. 

PILGRIM:  To journey; to wander; to ramble. [R.] Grew. Carlyle. 

PILGRIMIZE:  To wander as a pilgrim; to go on a pilgrimage. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

PILIDIUM:  The free-swimming, hat-shaped larva of certain nemertean worms. It has no resemblance to its parent, and the young worm develops in its interior. 

PILIFERA:  Same as Mammalia. 

PILIFORM:  Resembling hairs or down. 

PILIGEROUS:  Bearing hair; covered with hair or down; piliferous. 

PILING:  The process of building up, heating, and working, fagots, or piles, to form bars, etc. 

PILING:  A series of piles; piles considered collectively; as, the piling of a bridge. Pug piling, sheet piles connected together at the edges by dovetailed tongues and grooves.  -- Sheet piling, a series of piles made of planks or half logs driven edge to edge, -- used to form the walls of cofferdams, etc. 

PILL:  The peel or skin. [Obs.] "Some be covered over with crusts, or hard pills, as the locusts." Holland. 

PILL:  To be peeled; to peel off in flakes. 

PILL:  To rob; to plunder; to pillage; to peel. See Peel, to plunder. [Obs.] Spenser. Pillers and robbers were come in to the field to pill and to rob. Sir T. Malroy. 

PILLAGE:  To strip of money or goods by open violence; to plunder; to spoil; to lay waste; as, to pillage the camp of an enemy. Mummius . . . took, pillaged, and burnt their city. Arbuthnot. 

PILLAGE:  To take spoil; to plunder; to ravage. They were suffered to pillage wherever they went. Macaulay. 

PILLAGER:  One who pillages. Pope. 

PILLAR:  A portable ornamental column, formerly carried before a cardinal, as emblematic of his support to the church. [Obs.] Skelton.  4. (Man.)  The center of the volta, ring, or manege ground, around which a horse turns. From pillar to post, hither and thither; to and fro; from one place or predicament to another; backward and forward. [Colloq.] -- Pillar saint. See Stylite.  -- Pillars of the fauces. See Fauces, 1. 

PILLAR:  Having a support in the form of a pillar, instead of legs; as, a pillar drill.  PILLAR-BLOCK Pil"lar-block`, n.  See under Pillow. 

PILLARED:  Supported or ornamented by pillars; resembling a pillar, or pillars. "The pillared arches." Sir W. Scott. "Pillared flame." Thomson. 

PILLARET:  A little pillar. [R.] Fuller. 

PILLARIST:  See Stylite. 

PILLAU:  An Oriental dish consisting of rice boiled with mutton, fat, or butter. [Written also pilau.] 

PILLED:  Stripped of hair; scant of hair; bald. [Obs.] "Pilled beard." Chaucer.  PILLED-GARLIC Pilled"-gar"lic, n.  See Pilgarlic. 

PILLER:  One who pills or plunders. [Obs.] 

PILLERY:  Plunder; pillage. [Obs.] Daniel. 

PILLION:  A panel or cushion saddle; the under pad or cushion of saddle; esp., a pad or cushion put on behind a man's saddle, on which a woman may ride. His [a soldier's] shank pillion without stirrups. Spenser. 

PILLORIZE:  To set in, or punish with, the pillory; to pillory. [R.] 

PILLORY:  A frame of adjustable boards erected on a post, and having holes through which the head and hands of an offender were thrust so as to be exposed in front of it. Shak. 

PILLOW:  A piece of metal or wood, forming a support to equalize pressure; a brass; a pillow block. [R.]  3. (Naut.)  A block under the inner end of a bowsprit.  4. A kind of plain, coarse fustian. Lace pillow, a cushion used in making hand-wrought lace.  -- Pillow bier Etym: [OE. pilwebere; cf. LG. büre a pillowcase], a pillowcase; pillow slip. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- Pillow block (Mach.), a block, or standard, for supporting a journal, as of a shaft. It is usually bolted to the frame or foundation of a machine, and is often furnished with journal boxes, and a movable cover, or cap, for tightening the bearings by means of bolts; -- called also pillar block, or plumber block.  -- Pillow lace, handmade lace wrought with bobbins upon a lace pillow.  -- Pillow of a plow, a crosspiece of wood which serves to raise or lower the beam.  -- Pillow sham, an ornamental covering laid over a pillow when not in use.  -- Pillow slip, a pillowcase. 

PILLOW:  To rest or lay upon, or as upon, a pillow; to support; as, to pillow the head. Pillows his chin upon an orient wave. Milton. 

PILLOWCASE:  A removable case or covering for a pillow, usually of white linen or cotton cloth. 

PILLOWED:  Provided with a pillow or pillows; having the head resting on, or as on, a pillow. Pillowedon buckler cold and hard. Sir W. Scott.  PILLOW LACE Pil"low lace.  Lace made by hand with bobbins on a pillow. 

PILLOWY:  Like a pillow. Keats.  PILL-WILLET Pill"-wil`let, n. Etym: [So named from its note.] (Zoöl.)  The willet. 

PILLWORM:  Any myriapod of the genus Iulus and allied genera which rolls up spirally; a galleyworm. See Illust. under Myriapod. 

PILLWORT:  Any plant of the genus Pilularia; minute aquatic cryptograms, with small pill-shaped fruit; -- sometimes called peppergrass. 

PILOCARPINE:  An alkaloid extracted from jaborandi (Pilocarpus pennatifolius) as a white amorphous or crystalline substance which has a peculiar effect on the vasomotor system. 

PILONCE:  Same as Pilon. [Texas] 

PILONCILLO:  Same as Pilon. [Texas] 

PILOSE:  Clothed thickly with pile or soft down.  3. (Bot.)  Covered with long, slender hairs; resembling long hairs; hairy; as, pilose pubescence. 

PILOSITY:  The quality or state of being pilose; hairiness. Bacon. 

PILOT:  One employed to steer a vessel; a helmsman; a steersman. Dryden.  2. Specifically, a person duly qualified, and licensed by authority, to conduct vessels into and out of a port, or in certain waters, for a fixed rate of fees.  3. Figuratively: A guide; a director of another through a difficult or unknown course.  4. An instrument for detecting the compass error.  5. The cowcatcher of a locomotive. [U.S.] Pilot balloon, a small balloon sent up in advance of a large one, to show the direction and force of the wind.  -- Pilot bird. (Zoöl.) (a) A bird found near the Caribbee Islands; - - so called because its presence indicates to mariners their approach to these islands. Crabb. (b) The black-bellied plover. [Local, U.S.] -- Pilot boat, a strong, fast-sailing boat used to carry and receive pilots as they board and leave vessels.  -- Pilot bread, ship biscuit.  -- Pilot cloth, a coarse, stout kind of cloth for overcoats.  -- Pilot engine, a locomotive going in advance of a train to make sure that the way is clear.  -- Pilot fish. (Zoöl) (a) A pelagic carangoid fish (Naucrates ductor); -- so named because it is often seen in company with a shark, swimming near a ship, on account of which sailors imagine that it acts as a pilot to the shark. (b) The rudder fish (Seriola zonata).  -- Pilot jack, a flag or signal hoisted by a vessel for a pilot.  -- Pilot jacket, a pea jacket.  -- Pilot nut (Bridge Building), a conical nut applied temporarily to the threaded end of a pin, to protect the thread and guide the pin when it is driven into a hole. Waddell.  -- Pilot snake (Zoöl.) (a) A large North American snake (Coluber obsoleus). It is lustrous black, with white edges to some of the scales. Called also mountain black snake. (b) The pine snake.  -- Pilot whale. (Zoöl.) Same as Blackfish, 1. 

PILOTAGE:  A small, unmanned balloon sent up to indicate the direction of air currents.  PILOT FLAG Pilot flag.  The flag hoisted at the fore by a vessel desiring a pilot, in the United States the union jack, in Great Britain the British union jack with a white border.  PILOTISM; PILOTRY Pi"lot*ism, Pi"lot*ry, n.  Pilotage; skill in the duties of a pilot. [R.]  PILOT LAMP; PILOT LIGHT Pilot lamp or light . (Elec.)  A small incandescent telltale lamp on a dynamo or battery circuit to show approximately by its brightness the voltage of the current.  PILOT VALVE Pilot valve. (Hydraulics)  A small hand-operated valve to admit liquid to operate a valve difficult to turn by hand.  PILOT WHEEL Pilot wheel. (Mach.)  A wheel, usually with radial handles projecting from the rim, for traversing the saddle of a machine tool, esp. an automatic machine tool, by hand. 

PILOUR:  A piller; a plunderer. [Obs.] 

PILOUS:  See Pilose. 

PILPUL:  Among the Jews, penetrating investigation, disputation, and drawing of conclusions, esp. in Talmudic study. -- Pil"pul*ist (#), n. --Pil`pul*is"tic (#), a. 

PILSER:  An insect that flies into a flame. 

PILULAR:  Of or pertaining to pills; resembling a pill or pills; as, a pilular mass. 

PILULOUS:  Like a pill; small; insignificant. [R.] G. Eliot. 

PILWE:  A pillow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PILY:  Like pile or wool. 

PIMARIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in galipot, and isomeric with abietic acid. 

PIMELITE:  An apple-green mineral having a greasy feel. It is a hydrous silicate of nickel, magnesia, aluminia, and iron. 

PIMENT:  Wine flavored with spice or honey. See Pigment, 3. [Obs.] 

PIMENTA:  Same as Pimento. 

PIMENTO:  Allspice; -- applied both to the tree and its fruit. See Allspice. 

PIMIENTO:  The Spanish sweet pepper, the fruit of which is used as a vegetable, to stuff olives, etc. 

PIMLICO:  The friar bird. 

PIMOLA:  An olive stuffed with a kind of sweet red pepper, or pimiento. 

PIMP:  One who provides gratification for the lust of others; a procurer; a pander. Swift. 

PIMP:  To procure women for the gratification of others' lusts; to pander. Dryden. 

PIMPERNEL:  A plant of the genus Anagallis, of which one species (A. arvensis) has small flowers, usually scarlet, but sometimes purple, blue, or white, which speedily close at the approach of bad weather. Water pimpernel. (Bot.) See Brookweed. 

PIMPILLO:  A West Indian name for the prickly pear (Opuntia); -- called also pimploes. 

PIMPINEL:  The burnet saxifrage. See under Saxifrage. 

PIMPLE:  Any small acuminated elevation of the cuticle, whether going on to suppuration or not. "All eyes can see a pimple on her nose." Pope.  2. Fig.: A swelling or protuberance like a pimple. "A pimple that portends a future sprout." Cowper. 

PIMPLED:  Having pimples. Johnson. 

PIMPLY:  Pimpled. 

PIMPSHIP:  The office, occupation, or persom of a pimp. [R.] 

PIN:  To peen. 

PIN:  To inclose; to confine; to pen; to pound. 

PIN:  Caligo. See Caligo. Shak.  9. An ornament, as a brooch or badge, fastened to the clothing by a pin; as, a Masonic pin.  10. The leg; as, to knock one off his pins. [Slang] Banking pin (Horol.), a pin against which a lever strikes, to limit its motion.  -- Pin drill (Mech.), a drill with a central pin or projection to enter a hole, for enlarging the hole, or for sinking a recess for the head of a bolt, etc.; a counterbore.  -- Pin grass. (Bot.) See Alfilaria.  -- Pin hole, a small hole made by a pin; hence, any very small aperture or perforation.  -- Pin lock, a lock having a cylindrical bolt; a lock in which pins, arranged by the key, are used instead of tumblers.  -- Pin money, an allowance of money, as that made by a husband to his wife, for private and personal expenditure.  -- Pin rail (Naut.), a rail, usually within the bulwarks, to hold belaying pins. Sometimes applied to the fife rail. Called also pin rack.  -- Pin wheel. (a) A contrate wheel in which the cogs are cylindrical pins. (b) (Fireworks) A small coil which revolves on a common pin and makes a wheel of yellow or colored fire. 

PIN:  To fasten with, or as with, a pin; to join; as, to pin a garment; to pin boards together. "Aa if she would pin her to her heart." Shak. To pin one's faith upon, to depend upon; to trust to.  PINACATE BUG Pin`a*ca"te bug. [Orig. uncert.]  Any of several clumsy, wingless beetles of the genus Eleodes, found in the Pacific States.  PINA CLOTH; PINYA CLOTH Pi"ña cloth`.  A fine material for ladies' shawls, scarfs, handkerchiefs, etc., made from the fiber of the pineapple leaf, and perhaps from other fibrous tropical leaves. It is delicate, soft, and transparent, with a slight tinge of pale yellow. 

PINACOID:  A plane parallel to two of the crystalline axes. 

PINACOLIN:  A colorless oily liquid related to the ketones, and obtained by the decomposition of pinacone; hence, by extension, any one of the series of which pinacolin proper is the type. [Written also pinacoline.] 

PINACONE:  A white crystalline substance related to the glycols, and made from acetone; hence, by extension, any one of a series of substances of which pinacone proper is the type. [Written also pinakone.] 

PINACOTHECA:  A picture gallery. 

PINAFORE:  An apron for a child to protect the front part of dress; a tier. 

PINAKOTHEK:  Pinacotheca. 

PINASTER:  A species of pine (Pinus Pinaster) growing in Southern Europe. 

PINAX:  A tablet; a register; hence, a list or scheme inscribed on a tablet. [R.] Sir T. Browne.  PINCE-NEZ Pince`-nez", n. Etym: [F. pincer to pinch + nez nose.]  Eyeglasses kept on the nose by a spring. 

PINCERS:  See Pinchers. 

PINCH:  To take hold; to grip, as a dog does. [Obs.]  3. To spare; to be niggardly; to be covetous. Gower. The wretch whom avarice bids to pinch and spare. Franklin. To pinch at, to find fault with; to take exception to. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PINCHBECK:  An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling gold; a yellow metal, composed of about three ounces of zinc to a pound of copper. It is much used as an imitation of gold in the manufacture of cheap jewelry. 

PINCHBECK:  Made of pinchbeck; sham; cheap; spurious; unreal. "A pinchbeck throne." J. A. Symonds. 

PINCHCOCK:  A clamp on a flexible pipe to regulate the flow of a fluid through the pipe. 

PINCHEM:  The European blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

PINCHER:  One who, or that which, pinches. 

PINCHERS:  An instrument having two handles and two grasping jaws working on a pivot; -- used for griping things to be held fast, drawing nails, etc.  Note: This spelling is preferable to pincers, both on account of its derivation from the English pinch, and because it represents the common pronunciation. 

PINCHFIST:  A closefisted person; a miser. 

PINCHING:  Compressing; nipping; griping; niggardly; as, pinching cold; a pinching parsimony. Pinching bar, a pinch bar. See Pinch, n., 4.  -- Pinching nut, a check nut. See under Check, n. 

PINCHINGLY:  In a pinching way. 

PINCHPENNY:  A miserly person. 

PINCOFFIN:  A commercial preparation of garancin, yielding fine violet tints. 

PINCPINC:  An African wren warbler. (Drymoica textrix). 

PINCUSHION:  A small cushion, in which pins may be stuck for use.  PINDAL; PINDAR Pin"dal, Pin"dar, n. Etym: [D. piendel.] (Bot.)  The peanut (Arachis hypogæa); -- so called in the West Indies. 

PINDARIC:  Of or pertaining to Pindar, the Greek lyric poet; after the style and manner of Pindar; as, Pindaric odes.  -- n.  A Pindaric ode. 

PINDARICAL:  Pindaric. Too extravagant and Pindarical for prose. Cowley. 

PINDARISM:  Imitation of Pindar. 

PINDARIST:  One who imitates Pindar. 

PINDER:  One who impounds; a poundkeeper. [Obs.] 

PINE:  Woe; torment; pain. [Obs.] "Pyne of hell." Chaucer. 

PINE:  Any tree of the coniferous genus Pinus. See Pinus.  Note: There are about twenty-eight species in the United States, of which the white pine (P. Strobus), the Georgia pine (P. australis), the red pine (P. resinosa), and the great West Coast sugar pine (P. Lambertiana) are among the most valuable. The Scotch pine or fir, also called Norway or Riga pine (Pinus sylvestris), is the only British species. The nut pine is any pine tree, or species of pine, which bears large edible seeds. See Pinon. The spruces, firs, larches, and true cedars, though formerly considered pines, are now commonly assigned to other genera.  2. The wood of the pine tree.  3. A pineapple. Ground pine. (Bot.) See under Ground.  -- Norfolk Island pine (Bot.), a beautiful coniferous tree, the Araucaria excelsa.  -- Pine barren, a tract of infertile land which is covered with pines. [Southern U.S.] -- Pine borer (Zoöl.), any beetle whose larvæ bore into pine trees.  -- Pine finch. (Zoöl.) See Pinefinch, in the Vocabulary.  -- Pine grosbeak (Zoöl.), a large grosbeak (Pinicola enucleator), which inhabits the northern parts of both hemispheres. The adult male is more or less tinged with red.  -- Pine lizard (Zoöl.), a small, very active, mottled gray lizard (Sceloporus undulatus), native of the Middle States; -- called also swift, brown scorpion, and alligator.  -- Pine marten. (Zoöl.) (a) A European weasel (Mustela martes), called also sweet marten, and yellow-breasted marten. (b) The American sable. See Sable.  -- Pine moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small tortricid moths of the genus Retinia, whose larvæ burrow in the ends of the branchlets of pine trees, often doing great damage.  -- Pine mouse (Zoöl.), an American wild mouse (Arvicola pinetorum), native of the Middle States. It lives in pine forests.  -- Pine needle (Bot.), one of the slender needle-shaped leaves of a pine tree. See Pinus.  -- Pine-needle wool. See Pine wool (below).  -- Pine oil, an oil resembling turpentine, obtained from fir and pine trees, and used in making varnishes and colors.  -- Pine snake (Zoöl.), a large harmless North American snake (Pituophis melanoleucus). It is whitish, covered with brown blotches having black margins. Called also bull snake. The Western pine snake (P. Sayi) is chestnut-brown, mottled with black and orange.  -- Pine tree (Bot.), a tree of the genus Pinus; pine.  -- Pine-tree money, money coined in Massachusetts in the seventeenth century, and so called from its bearing a figure of a pine tree.  -- Pine weevil (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of weevils whose larvæ bore in the wood of pine trees. Several species are known in both Europe and America, belonging to the genera Pissodes, Hylobius, etc.  -- Pine wool, a fiber obtained from pine needles by steaming them. It is prepared on a large scale in some of the Southern United States, and has many uses in the economic arts; -- called also pine- needle wool, and pine-wood wool. 

PINEAL:  Of or pertaining to a pine cone; resembling a pine cone. Pineal gland (Anat.), a glandlike body in the roof of the third ventricle of the vertebrate brain; -- called also pineal body, epiphysis, conarium. In some animals it is connected with a rudimentary eye, the so-called pineal eye, and in other animals it is supposed to be the remnant of a dorsal median eye. 

PINEAPPLE:  A tropical plant (Ananassa sativa); also, its fruit; -- so called from the resemblance of the latter, in shape and external appearance, to the cone of the pine tree. Its origin is unknown, though conjectured to be American. 

PINEASTER:  See Pinaster.  PINE-CLAD; PINE-CROWNED Pine"-clad`, Pine"-crowned`, a.  Clad or crowned with pine trees; as, pine-clad hills. 

PINEDROPS:  A reddish herb (Pterospora andromedea) of the United States, found parasitic on the roots of pine trees. 

PINENCHYMA:  Tabular parenchyma, a form of cellular tissue in which the cells are broad and flat, as in some kinds of epidermis. 

PINESAP:  A reddish fleshy herb of the genus Monotropa (M. hypopitys), formerly thought to be parasitic on the roots of pine trees, but more probably saprophytic.  PINE-TREE STATE Pine-tree State.  Maine; -- a nickname alluding to the pine tree in its coat of arms. 

PINETUM:  A plantation of pine trees; esp., a collection of living pine trees made for ornamental or scientific purposes. 

PINEWEED:  A low, bushy, nearly leafless herb (Hypericum Sarothra), common in sandy soil in the Eastern United States. 

PINEY:  See Piny. 

PINEY:  A term used in designating an East Indian tree (the Vateria Indica or piney tree, of the order Dipterocarpeæ, which grows in Malabar, etc.) or its products. Piney dammar, Piney resin, Piney varnish, a pellucid, fragrant, acrid, bitter resin, which exudes from the piney tree (Vateria Indica) when wounded. It is used as a varnish, in making candles, and as a substitute for incense and for amber. Called also liquid copal, and white dammar.  -- Piney tallow, a solid fatty substance, resembling tallow, obtained from the roasted seeds of the Vateria Indica; called also dupada oil.  -- Piney thistle (Bot.), a plant (Atractylis gummifera), from the bark of which, when wounded, a gummy substance exudes.  PIN-EYED Pin"-eyed`, a. (Bot.)  Having the stigma visible at the throad of a gamopetalous corolla, while the stamens are concealed in the tube; -- said of dimorphous flowers. The opposite of Ant: thrum-eyed. 

PINFEATHER:  A feather not fully developed; esp., a rudimentary feather just emerging through the skin. 

PINFEATHERED:  Having part, or all, of the feathers imperfectly developed.  PIN-FIRE Pin"-fire`, a. (Mil.)  Having a firing pin to explode the cartridge; as, a pin-fire rifle. 

PINFOLD:  A place in which stray cattle or domestic animals are confined; a pound; a penfold. Shak. A parish pinfold begirt by its high hedge. Sir W. Scott. 

PING:  The sound made by a bullet in striking a solid object or in passing through the air. 

PING:  To make the sound called ping. 

PINGLE:  A small piece of inclosed ground. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]  PING-PONG Ping"-pong`, n. [Imitative.]  1. An indoor modification of lawn tennis played with small bats, or battledores, and a very light, hollow, celluloid ball, on a large table divided across the middle by a net.  2.  A size of photograph a little larger than a postage stamp.  PING-PONG Ping"-pong`, v. i.  To play ping-pong. 

PINGSTER:  See Pinkster. 

PINGUEFACTION:  A making of, or turning into, fat. 

PINGUICULA:  See Butterwort. 

PINGUID:  Fat; unctuous; greasy. [Obs.] "Some clays are more pinguid." Mortimer. 

PINGUIDINOUS:  Containing fat; fatty. [Obs.] 

PINGUITUDE:  Fatness; a growing fat; obesity. [R.] 

PINHOLD:  A place where a pin is fixed. 

PINIC:  Of or pertaining to the pine; obtained from the pine; formerly, designating an acid which is the chief constituent of common resin, - - now called abietic, or sylvic, acid. 

PININGLY:  In a pining manner; droopingly. Poe. 

PINION:  A moth of the genus Lithophane, as L. antennata, whose larva bores large holes in young peaches and apples. 

PINION:  A cogwheel with a small number of teeth, or leaves, adapted to engage with a larger wheel, or rack (see Rack); esp., such a wheel having its leaves formed of the substance of the arbor or spindle which is its axis. Lantern pinion. See under Lantern.  -- Pinion wire, wire fluted longitudinally, for making the pinions of clocks and watches. It is formed by being drawn through holes of the shape required for the leaves or teeth of the pinions. 

PINIONED:  Having wings or pinions. 

PINIONIST:  Any winged creature. 

PINITE:  A compact granular cryptocrystalline mineral of a dull grayish or greenish white color. It is a hydrous alkaline silicate, and is derived from the alteration of other minerals, as iolite. 

PINITE:  A sweet white crystalline substance extracted from the gum of a species of pine (Pinus Lambertina). It is isomeric with, and resembles, quercite. 

PINK:  A vessel with a very narrow stern; -- called also pinky. Sir W. Scott. Pink stern (Naut.), a narrow stern. 

PINK:  To wink; to blink. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 

PINK:  Half-shut; winking. [Obs.] Shak. 

PINK:  A stab. Grose. 

PINK:  A name given to several plants of the caryophyllaceous genus Dianthus, and to their flowers, which are sometimes very fragrant and often double in cultivated varieties. The species are mostly perennial herbs, with opposite linear leaves, and handsome five- petaled flowers with a tubular calyx.  2. A color resulting from the combination of a pure vivid red with more or less white; -- so called from the common color of the flower. Dryden.  3. Anything supremely excellent; the embodiment or perfection of something. "The very pink of courtesy." Shak.  4. (Zoöl.)  The European minnow; -- so called from the color of its abdomen in summer. [Prov. Eng.] Bunch pink is Dianthus barbatus.  -- China, or Indian, pink. See under China.  -- Clove pink is Dianthus Caryophyllus, the stock from which carnations are derived.  -- Garden pink. See Pheasant's eye.  -- Meadow pink is applied to Dianthus deltoides; also, to the ragged robin.  -- Maiden pink, Dianthus deltoides.  -- Moss pink. See under Moss.  -- Pink needle, the pin grass; -- so called from the long, tapering points of the carpels. See Alfilaria.  -- Sea pink. See Thrift. 

PINK:  Resembling the garden pink in color; of the color called pink (see 6th Pink, 2); as, a pink dress; pink ribbons. Pink eye (Med.), a popular name for an epidemic variety of ophthalmia, associated with early and marked redness of the eyeball.  -- Pink salt (Chem. & Dyeing), the double chlorides of (stannic) tin and ammonium, formerly much used as a mordant for madder and cochineal.  -- Pink saucer, a small saucer, the inner surface of which is covered with a pink pigment. 

PINKED:  Pierced with small holes; worked in eyelets; scalloped on the edge. Shak.  PINK-EYED Pink"-eyed`, a. Etym: [Pink half-shut + eye.]  Having small eyes. Holland. 

PINKISH:  Somewhat pink. 

PINKNESS:  Quality or state of being pink. 

PINKROOT:  The root of Spigelia Marilandica, used as a powerful vermifuge; also, that of S. Anthelmia. See definition 2 (below).  2. (Bot.) (a) A perennial North American herb (Spigelia Marilandica), sometimes cultivated for its showy red blossoms. Called also Carolina pink, Maryland pinkroot, and worm grass. (b) An annual South American and West Indian plant (Spigelia Anthelmia). 

PINKSTER:  Whitsuntide. [Written also pingster and pinxter.] Pinkster flower (Bot.), the rosy flower of the Azalea nudiflora; also, the shrub itself; -- called also Pinxter blomachee by the New York descendants of the Dutch settlers.  PINK STERN Pink" stern`. Etym: [See 1st Pink.] (Naut.)  See Chebacco, and 1st Pink.  PINK-STERNED Pink"-sterned`, a. Etym: [See 1st Pink.] (Naut.)  Having a very narrow stern; -- said of a vessel. 

PINKY:  See 1st Pink. 

PINNA:  One of the divisions of a pinnate part or organ.  3. Etym: [L. pinna, akin to Gr. (Zoöl.)  Any species of Pinna, a genus of large bivalve mollusks found in all warm seas. The byssus consists of a large number of long, silky fibers, which have been used in manufacturing woven fabrics, as a curiosity.  4. (Anat.)  The auricle of the ear. See Ear. 

PINNACLE:  An architectural member, upright, and generally ending in a small spire, -- used to finish a buttress, to constitute a part in a proportion, as where pinnacles flank a gable or spire, and the like. Pinnacles may be considered primarily as added weight, where it is necessary to resist the thrust of an arch, etc. Some renowned metropolis With glistering spires and pinnacles around. Milton.  2. Anything resembling a pinnacle; a lofty peak; a pointed summit. Three silent pinnacles of aged snow. Tennyson. The slippery tops of human state, The gilded pinnacles of fate. Cowley. 

PINNACLE:  To build or furnish with a pinnacle or pinnacles. T. Warton. 

PINNAGE:  Poundage of cattle. See Pound. [Obs.]  PINNATE; PINNATED Pin"nate, Pin"na*ted, a. Etym: [L. pinnatus feathered, fr. pinna a feather. See Pin a peg, Pen feather.]  1. (Bot.)  Consisting of several leaflets, or separate portions, arranged on each side of a common petiole, as the leaves of a rosebush, a hickory, or an ash. See Abruptly pinnate, and Illust., under Abruptly.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having a winglike tuft of long feathers on each side of the neck. Pinnated grouse (Zoöl.), the prairie chicken. 

PINNATELY:  In a pinnate manner. 

PINNATIFID:  Divided in a pinnate manner, with the divisions not reaching to the midrib. 

PINNATILOBATE:  Having lobes arranged in a pinnate manner. 

PINNATIPED:  Having the toes bordered by membranes; fin-footed, as certain birds. 

PINNATIPED:  Any bird which has the toes bordered by membranes. 

PINNER:  One who pins or impounds cattle. See Pin, v. t. [Obs.] 

PINNET:  A pinnacle. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

PINNIFORM:  Shaped like a fin or feather. Sir J. Hill. 

PINNIGRADA:  Same as Pinnipedia. 

PINNIGRADE:  An animal of the seal tribe, moving by short feet that serve as paddles. 

PINNIPEDES:  Same as Steganopodes. 

PINNIPEDIA:  A suborder of aquatic carnivorous mammals including the seals and walruses; -- opposed to Fissipedia. 

PINNOTHERE:  A crab of the genus pinnotheres. See Oyster crab, under Oyster. 

PINNULA:  Same as Pinnule. 

PINNULATE:  Having each pinna subdivided; -- said of a leaf, or of its pinnæ. 

PINNULATED:  Having pinnules. 

PINNULE:  One of the small divisions of a decompound frond or leaf. See Illust. of Bipinnate leaf, under Bipinnate.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of a series of small, slender organs, or parts, when arranged in rows so as to have a plumelike appearance; as, a pinnule of a gorgonia; the pinnules of a crinoid. 

PINNYWINKLES:  An instrument of torture, consisting of a board with holes into which the fingers were pressed, and fastened with pegs. [Written also pilliewinkles.] [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

PINOCLE:  See Penuchle. 

PINPATCH:  The common English periwinkle. [Prov. Eng.] 

PINT:  A measure of capacity, equal to half a quart, or four gills, -- used in liquid and dry measures. See Quart. 

PINT:  The laughing gull. [Prov. Eng.] 

PINTADO:  Any bird of the genus Numida. Several species are found in Africa. The common pintado, or Guinea fowl, the helmeted, and the crested pintados, are the best known. See Guinea fowl, under Guinea. 

PINTAIL:  A northern duck (Dafila acuta), native of both continents. The adult male has a long, tapering tail. Called also gray duck, piketail, piket-tail, spike-tail, split-tail, springtail, sea pheasant, and gray widgeon.  2. (Zoöl.)  The sharp-tailed grouse of the great plains and Rocky Mountains (Pediocætes phasianellus); -- called also pintailed grouse, pintailed chicken, springtail, and sharptail.  PIN-TAILED Pin"-tailed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having a tapered tail, with the middle feathers longest; -- said of birds. 

PINTLE:  An upright pivot pin; as: (a) The pivot pin of a hinge. (b) A hook or pin on which a rudder hangs and turns. (c) A pivot about which the chassis swings, in some kinds of gun carriages. (d) A kingbolt of a wagon. 

PINTO:  Lit., painted; hence, piebald; mottled; pied. 

PINTO:  Any pied animal; esp., a pied or "painted" horse. 

PINTOS:  A mountain tribe of Mexican Indians living near Acapulco. They are remarkable for having the dark skin of the face irregularly spotted with white. Called also speckled Indians.  PINTSCH GAS Pintsch gas. [After Richard Pintsch, German inventor.]  A kind of oil gas extensively used for lighting railroad cars, which carry it in compressed form. 

PINULE:  One of the sights of an astrolabe. [Obs.] 

PINUS:  A large genus of evergreen coniferous trees, mostly found in the northern hemisphere. The genus formerly included the firs, spruces, larches, and hemlocks, but is now limited to those trees which have the primary leaves of the branchlets reduced to mere scales, and the secondary ones (pine needles) acicular, and usually in fascicles of two to seven. See Pine. 

PINWEED:  Any plant of the genus Lechea, low North American herbs with branching stems, and very small and abundant leaves and flowers. 

PINWORM:  A small nematoid worm (Oxyurus vermicularis), which is parasitic chiefly in the rectum of man. It is most common in children and aged persons. 

PINXIT:  A word appended to the artist's name or initials on a painting, or engraved copy of a painting; as, Rubens pinxit, Rubens painted (this). 

PINXTER:  See Pinkster. 

PINY:  Abounding with pines. [Written also piney.] "The piny wood." Longfellow. 

PIONED:  A Shakespearean word of disputed meaning; perh., "abounding in marsh marigolds." Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims. Shak. 

PIONEER:  A soldier detailed or employed to form roads, dig trenches, and make bridges, as an army advances.  2. One who goes before, as into the wilderness, preparing the way for others to follow; as, pioneers of civilization; pioneers of reform. 

PIONEER:  To go before, and prepare or open a way for; to act as pioneer.  PIONEERS' DAY Pi`o*neers'" Day.  In Utah, a legal holiday, July 24, commemorated the arrival, in 1847, of Brigham Young and his followers at the present site of Salt Lake City. 

PIONER:  A pioneer. [Obs.] Shak. 

PIONY:  See Peony. 

PIOT:  The magpie. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Holland. 

PIOUSLY:  In a pious manner. 

PIP:  A contagious disease of fowls, characterized by hoarseness, discharge from the nostrils and eyes, and an accumulation of mucus in the mouth, forming a "scale" on the tongue. By some the term pip is restricted to this last symptom, the disease being called roup by them. 

PIP:  A seed, as of an apple or orange. 

PIP:  One of the conventional figures or "spots" on playing cards, dominoes, etc. Addison. 

PIP:  To cry or chirp, as a chicken; to peep. To hear the chick pip and cry in the egg. Boyle. 

PIPA:  The Surinam toad (Pipa Americana), noted for its peculiar breeding habits.  Note: The male places the eggs on the back of the female, where they soon become inclosed in capsules formed by the thickening of the skin. The incubation of the eggs takes place in the capsules, and the young, when hatched, come forth with well developed legs. 

PIPAGE:  Transportation, as of petroleum oil, by means of a pipe conduit; also, the charge for such transportation.  PIPAL TREE Pi"pal tree`.  Same as Peepul tree. 

PIPE:  The bagpipe; as, the pipes of Lucknow.  8. (Mining)  An elongated body or vein of ore.  9. A roll formerly used in the English exchequer, otherwise called the Great Roll, on which were taken down the accounts of debts to the king; -- so called because put together like a pipe. Mozley & W.  10. (Naut.)  A boatswain's whistle, used to call the crew to their duties; also, the sound of it.  11. Etym: [Cf. F. pipe, fr. pipe a wind instrument, a tube, fr. L. pipare to chirp. See Etymol. above.]  A cask usually containing two hogsheads, or 126 wine gallons; also, the quantity which it contains. Pipe fitter, one who fits pipes together, or applies pipes, as to an engine or a building.  -- Pipe fitting, a piece, as a coupling, an elbow, a valve, etc., used for connecting lengths of pipe or as accessory to a pipe.  -- Pipe office, an ancient office in the Court of Exchequer, in which the clerk of the pipe made out leases of crown lands, accounts of cheriffs, etc. [Eng.] -- Pipe tree (Bot.), the lilac and the mock orange; -- so called because their were formerly used to make pipe stems; -- called also pipe privet.  -- Pipe wrench, or Pipetongs, a jawed tool for gripping a pipe, in turning or holding it.  -- To smoke the pipe of peace, to smoke from the same pipe in token of amity or preparatory to making a treaty of peace, -- a custom of the American Indians. 

PIPE:  To call, convey orders, etc., by means of signals on a pipe or whistle carried by a boatswain.  3. To emit or have a shrill sound like that of a pipe; to whistle. "Oft in the piping shrouds." Wordsworth.  4. (Metal.)  To become hollow in the process of solodifying; -- said of an ingot, as of steel. 

PIPE:  To call or direct, as a crew, by the boatswain's whistle. As fine a ship's company as was ever piped aloft. Marryat.  3. To furnish or equip with pipes; as, to pipe an engine, or a building.  PIPE CLAY Pipe" clay` (  A plastic, unctuous clay of a grayish white color, -- used in making tobacco pipes and various kinds of earthenware, in scouring cloth, and in cleansing soldiers' equipments. 

PIPED:  Formed with a pipe; having pipe or pipes; tubular. 

PIPEFISH:  Any lophobranch fish of the genus Siphostoma, or Syngnathus, and allied genera, having a long and very slender angular body, covered with bony plates. The mouth is small, at the end of a long, tubular snout. The male has a pouch on his belly, in which the incubation of the eggs takes place.  PIPELAYER; PIPE LAYER Pipe"lay`er, n., or Pipe" lay`er.  1. One who lays conducting pipes in the ground, as for water, gas, etc.  2. (Polit. Cant)  A politician who works in secret; -- in this sense, usually written as one word. [U.S.]  PIPELAYING; PIPE LAYING Pipe"lay`ing, n., or Pipe" lay`ing.  1. The laying of conducting pipes underground, as for water, gas, etc.  2. (Polit. Cant)  The act or method of making combinations for personal advantage secretly or slyly; -- in this sense, usually written as one word. [U.S.]  PIPE LINE Pipe line.  A line of pipe with pumping machinery and apparatus for conveying liquids, esp. petroleum, between distant points.  PIPE-LINE Pipe"-line`, v. t.  To convey by a pipe line; to furnish with a pipe line or pipe lines. 

PIPEMOUTH:  Any fish of the genus Fistularia; -- called also tobacco pipefish. See Fistularia. 

PIPER:  See Pepper. 

PIPER:  One who plays on a pipe, or the like, esp. on a bagpipe. "The hereditary piper and his sons." Macaulay.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) A common European gurnard (Trigla lyra), having a large head, with prominent nasal projection, and with large, sharp, opercular spines. (b) A sea urchin (Goniocidaris hystrix) having very long spines, native of both the American and European coasts. To pay the piper, to bear the cost, expense, or trouble. 

PIPERACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to the order of plants (Piperaceæ) of which the pepper (Piper nigrum) is the type. There are about a dozen genera and a thousand species, mostly tropical plants with pungent and aromatic qualities.  PIPERAZINE; PIPERAZIN Pi*per"a*zine, n. Also -zin . [Piperidine + azote + -ine.] (Chem.)  A crystalline substance, (C2H4NH)2, formed by action of ammonia on ethylene bromide, by reduction of pyrazine, etc. It is a strong base, and is used as a remedy for gout. 

PIPERIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, or designating, a complex organic acid found in the products of different members of the Pepper family, and extracted as a yellowish crystalline substance. 

PIPERIDGE:  Same as Pepperidge. 

PIPERIDINE:  An oily liquid alkaloid, C5H11N, having a hot, peppery, ammoniacal odor. It is related to pyridine, and is obtained by the decomposition of piperine. 

PIPERINE:  A white crystalline compound of piperidine and piperic acid. It is obtained from the black pepper (Piper nigrum) and other species. 

PIPERONAL:  A white crystalline substance obtained by oxidation of piperic acid, and regarded as a complex aldehyde. 

PIPERYLENE:  A hydrocarbon obtained by decomposition of certain piperidine derivatives. 

PIPESTEM:  The hollow stem or tube of a pipe used for smoking tobacco, etc. Took a long reed for a pipestem. Longfellow. 

PIPESTONE:  A kind of clay slate, carved by the Indians into tobacco pipes. Cf. Catlinite. 

PIPETTE:  A small glass tube, often with an enlargement or bulb in the middle, and usually graduated, -- used for transferring or delivering measured quantities. 

PIPEVINE:  The Dutchman's pipe. See under Dutchman. 

PIPEWOOD:  An ericaceous shrub (Leucothoë acuminata) of the southern United States, from the wood of which pipe bowls are made. 

PIPEWORT:  Any plant of a genus (Eriocaulon) of aquatic or marsh herbs with soft grass-like leaves. 

PIPING:  A small European bat (Vesperugo pipistrellus); -- called also flittermouse. 

PIPIT:  Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Anthus and allied genera, of the family Motacillidæ. They strongly resemble the true larks in habits, colors, and the great length of the hind claw. They are, therefore, often called titlarks, and pipit larks.  Note: The meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis); the tree pipit, or tree lark (A. trivialis); and the rock pipit, or sea lark (A. obscurus) are well-known European species. The common American pipit, or brown lark, is Anthus Pensilvanicus. The Western species (A. Spraguei) is called the American skylark, on account of its musical powers. 

PIPKIN:  A small earthen boiler. 

PIPPIN:  Same as Peepul tree. 

PIPRA:  Any one of numerous species of small clamatorial birds belonging to Pipra and allied genera, of the family Pipridæ. The male is usually glossy black, varied with scarlet, yellow, or sky blue. They chiefly inhabit South America. 

PIPRINE:  Of or pertaining to the pipras, or the family Pipridæ. 

PIPSISSEWA:  A low evergreen plant (Chimaphila umbellata), with narrow, wedge-lanceolate leaves, and an umbel of pretty nodding fragrant blossoms. It has been used in nephritic diseases. Called also prince's pine. 

PIPY:  Like a pipe; hollow-stemmed. Keats. 

PIQUANCY:  The quality or state of being piquant. 

PIQUANT:  Stimulating to the taste; giving zest; tart; sharp; pungent; as, a piquant anecdote. "As piquant to the tongue as salt." Addison. "Piquant railleries." Gov. of Tongue. 

PIQUANTLY:  In a piquant manner. 

PIQUE:  A cotton fabric, figured in the loom, -- used as a dress goods for women and children, and for vestings, etc. 

PIQUE:  The jigger. See Jigger. 

PIQUE:  In piquet, the right of the elder hand to count thirty in hand, or to play before the adversary counts one.  Syn.  -- Displeasure; irritation; grudge; spite. Pique, Spite, Grudge. Pique denotes a quick and often transient sense of resentment for some supposed neglect or injury, but it is not marked by malevolence. Spite is a stronger term, denoting settled ill will or malice, with a desire to injure, as the result of extreme irritation. Grudge goes still further, denoting cherished and secret enmity, with an unforgiving spirit. A pique is usually of recent date; a grudge is that which has long subsisted; spite implies a disposition to cross or vex others. 

PIQUE:  To cause annoyance or irritation. "Every piques." Tatler. 

PIQUEER:  See Pickeer. [R.] 

PIQUEERER:  See Pickeerer. [R.] 

PIQUET:  See Picket. [R.] 

PIQUET:  A game at cards played between two persons, with thirty-two cards, all the deuces, threes, fours, fives, and sixes, being set aside. [Written also picket and picquet.] 

PIRACY:  Robbery on the high seas; the taking of property from others on the open sea by open violence; without lawful authority, and with intent to steal; -- a crime answering to robbery on land.  Note: By statute law several other offenses committed on the seas (as trading with known pirates, or engaging in the slave trade) have been made piracy.  3. "Sometimes used, in a quasi-figurative sense, of violation of copyright; but for this, infringement is the correct and preferable term." Abbott. 

PIRAGUA:  See Pirogue. 

PIRAI:  Same as Piraya. 

PIRAMETER:  A dynamometer for ascertaining the power required to draw carriages over roads. 

PIRARUCU:  Same as Arapaima. 

PIRATE:  To play the pirate; to practice robbery on the high seas. 

PIRATE:  To publish, as books or writings, without the permission of the author. They advertised they would pirate his edition. Pope. 

PIRATIC:  Piratical. 

PIRATICAL:  Of or pertaining to a pirate; acquired by, or practicing, piracy; as, a piratical undertaking. "Piratical printers." Pope.  -- Pi*rat"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PIRAYA:  A large voracious fresh-water fish (Serrasalmo piraya) of South America, having lancet-shaped teeth. 

PIRIE:  See Pirry. 

PIRIE:  A pear tree. [Written also pery, pyrie.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PIRIRIGUA:  A South American bird (Guira guira) allied to the cuckoos. 

PIRN:  A quill or reed on which thread or yarn is wound; a bobbin; also, the wound yarn on a weaver's shuttle; also, the reel of a fishing rod. [Scot.] 

PIROGUE:  A dugout canoe; by extension, any small boat. [Written variously periauger, perogue, piragua, periagua, etc.] 

PIROUETTE:  The whirling about of a horse. 

PIROUETTE:  To perform a pirouette; to whirl, like a dancer.  PIRRY; PIRRIE Pir"ry, Pir"rie, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot. pirr a gentle breeze, Icel. byrr a prosperous wind, bylr a blast of wind.]  A rough gale of wind. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

PISASPHALTUM:  See Pissasphalt. 

PISAY:  See Pisé. 

PISCARY:  The right or privilege of fishing in another man's waters. Blackstone. 

PISCATION:  Fishing; fishery. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PISCATOR:  A fisherman; an angler.  PISCATORIAL; PISCATORY Pis`ca*to"ri*al, Pis"ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. piscatorius, fr. piscator a fisherman, fr. piscari to fish, fr. piscis a fish. See Fish the animal.]  Of or pertaining to fishes or fishing. Addison. 

PISCES:  The class of Vertebrata that includes the fishes. The principal divisions are Elasmobranchii, Ganoidei, and Teleostei. 

PISCICAPTURE:  Capture of fishes, as by angling. [R.] W. H. Russell. 

PISCICULTURAL:  Relating to pisciculture. 

PISCICULTURE:  Fish culture. See under Fish. 

PISCICULTURIST:  One who breeds fish. 

PISCIFORM:  Having the form of a fish; resembling a fish. 

PISCINA:  A niche near the altar in a church, containing a small basin for rinsing altar vessels. 

PISCINAL:  Belonging to a fishpond or a piscina. 

PISCINE:  Of or pertaining to a fish or fishes; as, piscine remains. 

PISCIVOROUS:  Feeding or subsisting on fish. 

PISE:  A species of wall made of stiff earth or clay rammed in between molds which are carried up as the wall rises; -- called also pisé work. Gwilt. 

PISH:  An exclamation of contempt. 

PISH:  To express contempt. Pope. 

PISHU:  The Canada lynx. [Written also peeshoo.] 

PISIFORM:  Resembling a pea or peas in size and shape; as, a pisiform iron ore. 

PISIFORM:  A small bone on the ulnar side of the carpus in man and many mammals. See Illust. of Artiodactyla. 

PISMIRE:  An ant, or emmet. 

PISOLITE:  A variety of calcite, or calcium carbonate, consisting of aggregated globular concretions about the size of a pea; -- called also peastone, peagrit.  Note: Oölite is similar in structure, but the concretions are as small as the roe of a fish. 

PISOLITIC:  Composed of, containing, or resembling, pisolite. 

PISOPHALT:  Pissasphalt. [Obs.] 

PISS:  To discharge urine, to urinate. Shak. 

PISS:  Urine. 

PISSABED:  A name locally applied to various wild plants, as dandelion, bluet, oxeye daisy, etc. 

PISSASPHALT:  Earth pitch; a soft, black bitumen of the consistence of tar, and of a strong smell. It is inflammable, and intermediate between petroleum and asphalt. [Written also pisasphaltum, pisasphalt, etc.] 

PIST:  (man.) See Piste. 

PISTACHE:  The anacardiaceous tree Pistacia vera, which yields the pistachio nut; also, the nut itself and the flavoring extract prepared from it. 

PISTACHIO:  The nut of the Pistacia vera, a tree of the order Anacardiaceæ, containing a kernel of a pale greenish color, which has a pleasant taste, resembling that of the almond, and yields an oil of agreeable taste and odor; -- called also pistachio nut. It is wholesome and nutritive. The tree grows in Arabia, Persia, Syria, and Sicily. [Written also pistachia.]  PISTACHIO GREEN Pistachio green.  A light yellowish green color resembling that of the pistachio nut. 

PISTACIA:  The name of a genus of trees, including the tree which bears the pistachio, the Mediterranean mastic tree (Pistacia Lentiscus), and the species (P. Terebinthus) which yields Chian or Cyprus turpentine. 

PISTACITE:  Epidote. 

PISTAREEN:  An old Spanish silver coin of the value of about twenty cents. 

PISTAZITE:  Same as Pistacite. 

PISTE:  The track or tread a horseman makes upon the ground he goes over. Johnson.  PISTEL; PISTIL Pis"tel, Pis"til, n.  An epistle. [Obs.] 

PISTIC:  Pure; genuine. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

PISTIL:  The seed-bearing organ of a flower. It consists of an ovary, containing the ovules or rudimentary seeds, and a stigma, which is commonly raised on an elongated portion called a style. When composed of one carpel a pistil is simple; when composed of several, it is compound. See Illust. of Flower, and Ovary. 

PISTILLACEOUS:  Growing on, or having nature of, the pistil; of or pertaining to a pistil. Barton. 

PISTILLATE:  Having a pistil or pistils; -- usually said of flowers having pistils but no stamens. 

PISTILLATION:  The act of pounding or breaking in a mortar; pestillation. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PISTILLIDIUM:  Same as Archegonium. 

PISTILLIFEROUS:  Pistillate. 

PISTILLODY:  The metamorphosis of other organs into pistils. 

PISTOL:  The smallest firearm used, intended to be fired from one hand, -- now of many patterns, and bearing a great variety of names. See Illust. of Revolver. Pistol carbine, a firearm with a removable but- piece, and thus capable of being used either as a pistol or a carbine.  -- Pistol pipe (Metal.), a pipe in which the blast for a furnace is heated, resembling a pistol in form.  -- Pistol shot. (a) The discharge of a pistol. (b) The distance to which a pistol can propel a ball. 

PISTOL:  To shoot with a pistol. "To pistol a poacher." Sydney Smith. 

PISTOLADE:  A pistol shot. 

PISTOLE:  The name of certain gold coins of various values formerly coined in some countries of Europe. In Spain it was equivalent to a quarter doubloon, or about $3.90, and in Germany and Italy nearly the same. There was an old Italian pistole worth about $5.40. 

PISTOLEER:  One who uses a pistol. [R.] Carlyle. 

PISTOLET:  A small pistol. Donne. Beau. & Fl. 

PISTON:  A sliding piece which either is moved by, or moves against, fluid pressure. It usually consists of a short cylinder fitting within a cylindrical vessel along which it moves, back and forth. It is used in steam engines to receive motion from the steam, and in pumps to transmit motion to a fluid; also for other purposes. Piston head (Steam Eng.), that part of a piston which is made fast to the piston rod.  -- Piston rod, a rod by which a piston is moved, or by which it communicates motion.  -- Piston valve (Steam Eng.), a slide valve, consisting of a piston, or connected pistons, working in a cylindrical case which is provided with ports that are traversed by the valve.  PISTON RING Pis"ton ring. (Mach.)  A spring packing ring, or any of several such rings, for a piston. 

PITAHAYA:  A cactaceous shrub (Cereus Pitajaya) of tropical America, which yields a delicious fruit. 

PITAPAT:  In a flutter; with palpitation or quick succession of beats. Lowell. "The fox's heart went pitapat." L'Estrange. 

PITAPAT:  A light, repeated sound; a pattering, as of the rain. "The pitapat of a pretty foot." Dryden. 

PITCH:  See Pitchstone. Amboyna pitch, the resin of Dammara australis. See Kauri.  -- Burgundy pitch. See under Burgundy.  -- Canada pitch, the resinous exudation of the hemlock tree (Abies Canadensis); hemlock gum.  -- Jew's pitch, bitumen.  -- Mineral pitch. See Bitumen and Asphalt.  -- Pitch coal (Min.), bituminous coal.  -- Pitch peat (Min.), a black homogeneous peat, with a waxy luster.  -- Pitch pine (Bot.), any one of several species of pine, yielding pitch, esp. the Pinus rigida of North America. 

PITCH:  That point of the ground on which the ball pitches or lights when bowled.  3. A point or peak; the extreme point or degree of elevation or depression; hence, a limit or bound. Driven headlong from the pitch of heaven, down Into this deep. Milton. Enterprises of great pitch and moment. Shak. To lowest pitch of abject fortune. Milton. He lived when learning was at its highest pitch. Addison. The exact pitch, or limits, where temperance ends. Sharp.  4. Height; stature. [Obs.] Hudibras.  5. A descent; a fall; a thrusting down.  6. The point where a declivity begins; hence, the declivity itself; a descending slope; the degree or rate of descent or slope; slant; as, a steep pitch in the road; the pitch of a roof.  7. (Mus.)  The relative acuteness or gravity of a tone, determined by the number of vibrations which produce it; the place of any tone upon a scale of high and low.  Note: Musical tones with reference to absolute pitch, are named after the first seven letters of the alphabet; with reference to relative pitch, in a series of tones called the scale, they are called one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight is also one of a new scale an octave higher, as one is eight of a scale an octave lower.  8. (Mining)  The limit of ground set to a miner who receives a share of the ore taken out.  9. (Mech.) (a) The distance from center to center of any two adjacent teeth of gearing, measured on the pitch line; -- called also circular pitch. (b) The length, measured along the axis, of a complete turn of the thread of a screw, or of the helical lines of the blades of a screw propeller. (c) The distance between the centers of holes, as of rivet holes in boiler plates. Concert pitch (Mus.), the standard of pitch used by orchestras, as in concerts, etc.  -- Diametral pitch (Gearing), the distance which bears the same relation to the pitch proper, or circular pitch, that the diameter of a circle bears to its circumference; it is sometimes described by the number expressing the quotient obtained by dividing the number of teeth in a wheel by the diameter of its pitch circle in inches; as, 4 pitch, 8 pitch, etc.  -- Pitch chain, a chain, as one made of metallic plates, adapted for working with a sprocket wheel.  -- Pitch line, or Pitch circle (Gearing), an ideal line, in a toothed gear or rack, bearing such a relation to a corresponding line in another gear, with which the former works, that the two lines will have a common velocity as in rolling contact; it usually cuts the teeth at about the middle of their height, and, in a circular gear, is a circle concentric with the axis of the gear; the line, or circle, on which the pitch of teeth is measured.  -- Pitch of a roof (Arch.), the inclination or slope of the sides expressed by the height in parts of the span; as, one half pitch; whole pitch; or by the height in parts of the half span, especially among engineers; or by degrees, as a pitch of 30°, of 45°, etc.; or by the rise and run, that is, the ratio of the height to the half span; as, a pitch of six rise to ten run. Equilateral pitch is where the two sloping sides with the span form an equilateral triangle.  -- Pitch of a plane (Carp.), the slant of the cutting iron.  -- Pitch pipe, a wind instrument used by choristers in regulating the pitch of a tune.  -- Pitch point (Gearing), the point of contact of the pitch lines of two gears, or of a rack and pinion, which work together.  PITCH-BLACK Pitch"-black`, a.  Black as pitch or tar. 

PITCHBLENDE:  A pitch-black mineral consisting chiefly of the oxide of uranium; uraninite. See Uraninite.  PITCH-DARK Pitch"-dark`, a.  Dark as a pitch; pitch-black. 

PITCHER:  A tubular or cuplike appendage or expansion of the leaves of certain plants. American pitcher plants, the species of Sarracenia. See Sarracenia.  -- Australian pitcher plant, the Cephalotus follicularis, a low saxifragaceous herb having two kinds of radical leaves, some oblanceolate and entire, others transformed into little ovoid pitchers, longitudinally triple-winged and ciliated, the mouth covered with a lid shaped like a cockleshell.  -- California pitcher plant, the Darlingtonia California. See Darlingtonia.  -- Pitcher plant, any plant with the whole or a part of the leaves transformed into pitchers or cuplike organs, especially the species of Nepenthes. See Nepenthes. 

PITCHERFUL:  The quantity a pitcher will hold.  PITCH-FACED Pitch"-faced`, a. (Stone Cutting)  Having the arris defined by a line beyond which the rock is cut away, so as to give nearly true edges; -- said of squared stones that are otherwise quarry-faced. 

PITCHFORK:  A fork, or farming utensil, used in pitching hay, sheaves of grain, or the like. 

PITCHFORK:  To pitch or throw with, or as with, a pitchfork. He has been pitchforked into the footguards. G. A. Sala. 

PITCHINESS:  Blackness, as of pitch; darkness. 

PITCHING:  A facing of stone laid upon a bank to prevent wear by tides or currents. Pitching piece (Carp.), the horizontal timber supporting the floor of a platform of a stairway, and against which the stringpieces of the sloping parts are supported.  PITCH-ORE Pitch"-ore`, n. (Min.)  Pitchblende. 

PITCHSTONE:  An igneous rock of semiglassy nature, having a luster like pitch. 

PITCHWORK:  The work of a coal miner who is paid by a share of his product. 

PITFALL:  A pit deceitfully covered to entrap wild beasts or men; a trap of any kind. Sir T. North. 

PITFALLING:  Entrapping; insnaring. [R.] "Full of . . . contradiction and pitfalling dispenses." Milton. 

PITH:  The soft spongy substance in the center of the stems of many plants and trees, especially those of the dicotyledonous or exogenous classes. It consists of cellular tissue.  2. (a) (Zoöl.) The spongy interior substance of a feather. (b) (Anat.) The spinal cord; the marrow.  3. Hence: The which contains the strength of life; the vital or essential part; concentrated force; vigor; strength; importance; as, the speech lacked pith. Enterprises of great pith and moment. Shak. Pith paper. Same as Rice paper, under Rice. 

PITH:  To destroy the central nervous system of (an animal, as a frog), as by passing a stout wire or needle up and down the vertebral canal. 

PITHECANTHROPUS:  an animal of this genus. --Pith`e*can"thrope (#), n. -- Pith`e*can"thro*poid (#), a. 

PITHECI:  A division of mammals including the apes and monkeys. Sometimes used in the sense of Primates. 

PITHFUL:  Full of pith. [R.] W. Browne. 

PITHILY:  In a pithy manner. 

PITHINESS:  The quality or state of being pithy. 

PITHLESS:  Destitute of pith, or of strength; feeble. Dryden. "Pithless argumentation." Glandstone.  PIT-HOLE Pit"-hole`, n.  A pit; a pockmark. 

PITHSOME:  Pithy; robust. [R.] "Pithsome health and vigor." R. D. Blackmore. 

PITIABLE:  Deserving pity; wworthy of, or exciting, compassion; miserable; lamentable; piteous; as, pitiable persons; a pitiable condition; pitiable wretchedness.  Syn.  -- Sorrowful; woeful; sad. See Piteous.  -- Pit"i*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Pit"i*a*bly, adv. 

PITIER:  One who pities. Gauden. 

PITMAN:  The connecting rod in a sawmill; also, sometimes, a connecting rod in other machinery.  PITOT'S TUBE Pi*tot's" tube`. (Hydraul.)  A bent tube used to determine the velocity of running water, by placing the curved end under water, and observing the height to which the fluid rises in the tube; a kind of current meter. 

PITPAN:  A long, flat-bottomed canoe, used for the navigation of rivers and lagoons in Central America. Squier. 

PITPAT:  See Pitapat. 

PITTA:  Any one of a large group of bright-colored clamatorial birds belonging to Pitta, and allied genera of the family Pittidæ. Most of the species are varied with three or more colors, such as blue, green, crimson, yellow, purple, and black. They are called also ground thrushes, and Old World ant thrushes; but they are not related to the true thrushes.  Note: The pittas are most abundant in the East Indies, but some inhabit Southern Asia, Africa, and Australia. They live mostly upon the ground, and feed upon insects of various kinds. 

PITTACAL:  A dark blue substance obtained from wood tar. It consists of hydrocarbons which when oxidized form the orange-yellow eupittonic compounds, the salts of which are dark blue. 

PITTED:  Having minute thin spots; as, pitted ducts in the vascular parts of vegetable tissue. 

PITTER:  A contrivance for removing the pits from peaches, plums, and other stone fruit. 

PITTER:  To make a pattering sound; to murmur; as, pittering streams. [Obs.] R. Greene.  PITTER-PATTER Pit"ter-pat`ter, n.  A sound like that of alternating light beats. Also, a pattering of words.  PITTER-PATTER Pit"ter-pat`ter, adv.  With, or with the sound of, alternating light beats; as, his heart went pitter-patter.  PITTLE-PATTLE Pit"tle-pat`tle, v. i.  To talk unmeaningly; to chatter or prattle. [R.] Latimer. 

PITUITE:  Mucus, phlegm. 

PITUITOUS:  Consisting of, or resembling, pituite or mucus; full of mucus; discharging mucus. Pituitous fever (Med.), typhoid fever; enteric fever. 

PITUITRIN:  A substance or extract from the pituitary body. 

PITY:  To be compassionate; to show pity. I will not pity, nor spare, nor have mercy. Jer. xiii. 14. 

PITYING:  Expressing pity; as, a pitying eye, glance, or word.  -- Pit"y*ing*ly, adv. 

PITYRIASIS:  A superficial affection of the skin, characterized by irregular patches of thin scales which are shed in branlike particles. Pityriasis versicolor Etym: [NL.] (Med.), a parasitic disease of the skin, characterized by the development of reddish or brownish patches. 

PITYROID:  Having the form of, or resembling, bran. Smart. 

PIU:  A little more; as, più allegro, a little more briskly. 

PIVOT:  The officer or soldier who simply turns in his place whike the company or line moves around him in wheeling; -- called also pivot man. Pivot bridge, a form of drawbridge in which one span, called the pivot span, turns about a central vertical axis.  -- Pivot gun, a gun mounted on a pivot or revolving carriage, so as to turn in any direction.  -- Pivot tooth (Dentistry), an artificial crown attached to the root of a natural tooth by a pin or peg. 

PIVOT:  To place on a pivot. Clarke. 

PIVOTAL:  Of or pertaining to a pivot or turning point; belonging to, or constituting, a pivot; of the nature of a pivot; as, the pivotalopportunity of a career; the pivotal position in a battle. 

PIX:  See Pyx.  PIXY; PIXIE Pix"y, Pix"ie, n.; pl. Pixies. Etym: [For Pucksy, from Puck.]  1. An old English name for a fairy; an elf. [Written also picksy.]  2. (Bot.)  A low creeping evergreen plant (Pyxidanthera barbulata), with mosslike leaves and little white blossoms, found in New Jersey and southward, where it flowers in earliest spring. Pixy ring, a fairy ring or circle. [Prov. Eng.] -- Pixy stool (Bot.), a toadstool or mushroom. [Prov. Eng.]  PIXY-LED Pix"y-led`, a.  Led by pixies; bewildered. 

PIZZICATO:  A direction to violinists to pluck the string with the finger, instead of using the bow. (Abrev. pizz.) 

PIZZLE:  The penis; -- so called in some animals, as the bull. Shak. 

PLACABILITY:  The quality or state of being placable or appeasable; placable disposition. 

PLACABLE:  Capable of being appeased or pacified; ready or willing to be pacified; willing to forgive or condone. Methought I saw him placable and mild. Milton. 

PLACABLENESS:  The quality of being placable. 

PLACARD:  An extra plate on the lower part of the breastplate or backplate. Planché.  5. Etym: [Cf. Placket.]  A kind of stomacher, often adorned with jewels, worn in the fifteenth century and later. 

PLACATE:  Same as Placard, 4 & 5. 

PLACATE:  To appease; to pacify; to concilate. "Therefore is he always propitiated and placated." Cudworth. 

PLACATION:  The act of placating. [R.] Puttenham (1589). 

PLACE:  Position in the heavens, as of a heavenly body; -- usually defined by its right ascension and declination, or by its latitude and longitude. Place of arms (Mil.), a place calculated for the rendezvous of men in arms, etc., as a fort which affords a safe retreat for hospitals, magazines, etc. Wilhelm.  -- High place (Script.), a mount on which sacrifices were offered. "Him that offereth in the high place." Jer. xlviii. 35.  -- In place, in proper position; timely.  -- Out of place, inappropriate; ill-timed; as, his remarks were out of place.  -- Place kick (Football), the act of kicking the ball after it has been placed on the ground.  -- Place name, the name of a place or locality. London Academy.  -- To give place, to make room; to yield; to give way; to give advantage. "Neither give place to the devil." Eph. iv. 27. "Let all the rest give place." Shak.  -- To have place, to have a station, room, or seat; as, such desires can have no place in a good heart.  -- To take place. (a) To come to pass; to occur; as, the ceremony will not take place. (b) To take precedence or priority. Addison. (c) To take effect; to prevail. "If your doctrine takes place." Berkeley. "But none of these excuses would take place." Spenser.  -- To take the place of, to be substituted for.  Syn.  -- Situation; seat; abode; position; locality; location; site; spot; office; employment; charge; function; trust; ground; room; stead. 

PLACEBO:  The first antiphon of the vespers for the dead.  2. (Med.)  A prescription intended to humor or satisfy. To sing placebo, to agree with one in his opinion; to be complaisant to. Chaucer. 

PLACEFUL:  In the appointed place. [Obs.]  PLACE-KICK Place"-kick`, v. t. & i.  To make a place kick; to make (a goal) by a place kick. -- Place"-kick`er, n. 

PLACELESS:  Having no place or office. 

PLACEMAN:  One who holds or occupies a place; one who has office under government. Sir W. Scott. 

PLACENTA:  The vascular appendage which connects the fetus with the parent, and is cast off in parturition with the afterbirth.  Note: In most mammals the placenta is principally developed from the allantois and chorion, and tufts of vascular villi on its surface penetrate the blood vessels of the parental uterus, and thus establish a nutritive and excretory connection between the blood of the fetus and that of the parent, though the blood itself does not flow from one to the other.  2. (Bot.)  The part of a pistil or fruit to which the ovules or seeds are attached. 

PLACENTAL:  Of or pertaining to the Placentalia. 

PLACENTAL:  One of the Placentalia. 

PLACENTALIA:  A division of Mammalia including those that have a placenta, or all the orders above the marsupials. 

PLACENTARY:  Having reference to the placenta; as, the placentary system of classification. 

PLACENTATION:  The mode of formation of the placenta in different animals; as, the placentation of mammals.  2. (Bot.)  The mode in which the placenta is arranged or composed; as, axile placentation; parietal placentation. 

PLACENTIFEROUS:  Having or producing a placenta. 

PLACENTIFORM:  Having the shape of a placenta, or circular thickened disk somewhat thinner about the middle. 

PLACENTIOUS:  Pleasing; amiable. [Obs.] "A placentious person." Fuller.  PLACE-PROUD Place"-proud`, a.  Proud of rank or office. Beau. & Fl. 

PLACER:  One who places or sets. Spenser. 

PLACER:  A deposit of earth, sand, or gravel, containing valuable mineral in particles, especially by the side of a river, or in the bed of a mountain torrent. [U.S.] 

PLACID:  Pleased; contented; unruffied; undisturbed; serene; peaceful; tranquil; quiet; gentle. "That placid aspect and meek regard." Milton. "Sleeping . . . the placid sleep of infancy." Macaulay. 

PLACIDITY:  The quality or state of being placid; calmness; serenity. Hawthorne. 

PLACIDLY:  In a placid manner. 

PLACIDNESS:  The quality or state of being placid. 

PLACIT:  A decree or determination; a dictum. [Obs.] "The placits and opinions of other philosophers." Evelyn. 

PLACITORY:  Of or pertaining to pleas or pleading, in courts of law. [Obs.] Clayton. 

PLACITUM:  A court, or cause in court.  3. (Law)  A plea; a pleading; a judicial proceeding; a suit. Burrill. 

PLACK:  A small copper coin formerly current in Scotland, worth less than a cent. With not a plack in the pocket of the poet. Prof. Wilson. 

PLACODERM:  One of the Placodermi. 

PLACODERMAL:  Of or pertaining to the placoderms; like the placoderms. 

PLACODERMATA:  Same as Placodermi. 

PLACODERMI:  An extinct group of fishes, supposed to be ganoids. The body and head were covered with large bony plates. See Illust. under Pterichthys, and Coccosteus. 

PLACOGANOID:  Pertaining to the Placoganoidei. 

PLACOGANOIDEI:  A division of ganoid fishes including those that have large external bony plates and a cartilaginous skeleton. 

PLACOID:  Platelike; having irregular, platelike, bony scales, often bearing spines; pertaining to the placoids. 

PLACOIDES:  A group of fishes including the sharks and rays; the Elasmobranchii; -- called also Placoidei. 

PLACOIDIAN:  One of the placoids. 

PLACOPHORA:  A division of gastropod Mollusca, including the chitons. The back is covered by eight shelly plates. Called also Polyplacophora. See Illust. under Chiton, and Isopleura. 

PLAGA:  A stripe of color. 

PLAGAL:  Having a scale running from the dominant to its octave; -- said of certain old church modes or tunes, as opposed to those called authentic, which ran from the tonic to its octave. Plagal cadence, a cadence in which the final chord on the tonic is preceded by the chord on the subdominant. 

PLAGATE:  Having plagæ, or irregular enlongated color spots. 

PLAGE:  A region; country. [Obs.] "The plages of the north." Chaucer. 

PLAGIARIST:  One who plagiarizes; or purloins the words, writings, or ideas of another, and passes them off as his own; a literary thief; a plagiary. 

PLAGIARIZE:  To steal or purloin from the writings of another; to appropriate without due acknowledgement (the ideas or expressions of another). 

PLAGIARY:  To commit plagiarism. 

PLAGIHEDRAL:  Having an oblique spiral arrangement of planes, as levogyrate and dextrogyrate crystals. 

PLAGIOCEPHALIC:  Having an oblique lateral deformity of the skull. 

PLAGIOCEPHALY:  Oblique lateral deformity of the skull. 

PLAGIOCLASE:  A general term used of any triclinic feldspar. See the Note under Feldspar. 

PLAGIONITE:  A sulphide of lead and antimony, of a blackish lead-gray color and metallic luster. 

PLAGIOSTOMATOUS:  Same as Plagiostomous. 

PLAGIOSTOME:  One of the Plagiostomi. 

PLAGIOSTOMI:  An order of fishes including the sharks and rays; -- called also Plagiostomata. 

PLAGIOSTOMOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Plagiostomi. 

PLAGIOTREMATA:  Same as Lepidosauria. 

PLAGIOTROPIC:  Having the longer axis inclined away from the vertical line. 

PLAGIUM:  Manstealing; kidnaping. 

PLAGOSE:  Fond of flogging; as, a plagose master. [R.] 

PLAGUE:  An acute malignant contagious fever, that often prevails in Egypt, Syria, and Turkey, and has at times visited the large cities of Europe with frightful mortality; hence, any pestilence; as, the great London plague. "A plague upon the people fell." Tennyson. Cattle plague. See Rinderpest.  -- Plague mark, Plague spot, a spot or mark of the plague; hence, a token of something incurable. 

PLAGUEFUL:  Abounding, or infecting, with plagues; pestilential; as, plagueful exhalations. 

PLAGUELESS:  Free from plagues or the plague. 

PLAGUER:  One who plagues or annoys. 

PLAGUILY:  In a plaguing manner; vexatiously; extremely. [Colloq.] "Ronsard is so plaguily stiff and stately." Landor. 

PLAGUY:  Vexatious; troublesome; tormenting; as, a plaguy horse. [Colloq.] Also used adverbially; as, "He is so plaguy proud." Shak. 

PLAID:  Having a pattern or colors which resemble a Scotch plaid; checkered or marked with bars or stripes at right angles to one another; as, plaid muslin. 

PLAIDING:  Plaid cloth. 

PLAIN:  To lament; to bewail; to complain. [Archaic & Poetic] Milton. We with piteous heart unto you pleyne. Chaucer. 

PLAIN:  To lament; to mourn over; as, to plain a loss. [Archaic & Poetic] Sir J. Harrington. 

PLAIN:  In a plain manner; plainly. "To speak short and pleyn." Chaucer. "To tell you plain." Shak. 

PLAINANT:  One who makes complaint; the plaintiff. [Obs.]  PLAIN-DEALING Plain"-deal`ing, a.  Practicing plain dealing; artless. See Plain dealing, under Dealing. Shak.  PLAIN-HEARTED Plain"-heart`ed, a.  Frank; sincere; artless. Milton.  -- Plain"-heart`ed*ness, n. 

PLAINING:  Complaint. [Poetic] Shak. 

PLAINING:  Complaining. [Poetic] Bryant.  PLAIN-LAID Plain"-laid`, a. (Naut.)  Consisting of strands twisted together in the ordinary way; as, a plain-laid rope. See Illust. of Cordage. 

PLAINLY:  In a plain manner; clearly. 

PLAINNESS:  The quality or state of being plain. 

PLAINSMAN:  One who lives in the plains.  PLAIN-SPOKEN Plain"-spo`ken, a.  Speaking with plain, unreserved sincerity; also, spoken sincerely; as, plain-spoken words. Dryden. 

PLAINT:  A private memorial tendered to a court, in which a person sets forth his cause of action; the exhibiting of an action in writing. Blackstone. 

PLAINTFUL:  Containing a plaint; complaining; expressing sorrow with an audible voice. "My plaintful tongue." Sir P. Sidney. 

PLAINTIFF:  One who commences a personal action or suit to obtain a remedy for an injury to his rights; -- opposed to Ant: defendant. 

PLAINTIFF:  See Plaintive. [Obs.] Prior. 

PLAINTLESS:  Without complaint; unrepining. "Plaintless patience." Savage. 

PLAISANCE:  See Pleasance. 

PLAISE:  See Plaice. [Obs.] 

PLAISTER:  See Plaster. 

PLAITED:  Folded; doubled over; braided; figuratively, involved; intricate; artful. Time shall unfold what plaited cunning hides. Shak. 

PLAITER:  One who, or that which, plaits. 

PLANARIA:  Any species of turbellarian worms belonging to Planaria, and many allied genera. The body is usually flat, thin, and smooth. Some species, in warm countries, are terrestrial. 

PLANARIAN:  One of the Planarida, or Dendrocoela; any turbellarian worm.  -- Pla*na"ri*an, a. 

PLANARIDA:  A division of Turbellaria; the Dendrocoela. 

PLANARIOID:  Like the planarians. 

PLANARY:  Of or pertaining to a plane. [R.] 

PLANCH:  A plank. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. 

PLANCH:  To make or cover with planks or boards; to plank. [Obs.] "To that vineyard is a planched gate." Shak. 

PLANCHER:  The under side of a cornice; a soffit. 

PLANCHER:  To form of planks. [Obs.] Golding. 

PLANCHET:  A flat piece of metal; especially, a disk of metal ready to be stamped as a coin. 

PLANCHING:  The laying of floors in a building; also, a floor of boards or planks. 

PLANE:  Any tree of the genus Platanus.  Note: The Oriental plane (Platanus orientalis) is a native of Asia. It rises with a straight, smooth, branching stem to a great height, with palmated leaves, and long pendulous peduncles, sustaining several heads of small close-sitting flowers. The seeds are downy, and collected into round, rough, hard balls. The Occidental plane (Platanus occidentalis), which grows to a great height, is a native of North America, where it is popularly called sycamore, buttonwood, and buttonball, names also applied to the California species (Platanus racemosa). 

PLANE:  Without elevations or depressions; even; level; flat; lying in, or constituting, a plane; as, a plane surface.  Note: In science, this word (instead of plain) is almost exclusively used to designate a flat or level surface. Plane angle, the angle included between two straight lines in a plane.  -- Plane chart, Plane curve. See under Chart and Curve.  -- Plane figure, a figure all points of which lie in the same plane. If bounded by straight lines it is a rectilinear plane figure, if by curved lines it is a curvilinear plane figure.  -- Plane geometry, that part of geometry which treats of the relations and properties of plane figures.  -- Plane problem, a problem which can be solved geometrically by the aid of the right line and circle only.  -- Plane sailing (Naut.), the method of computing a ship's place and course on the supposition that the earth's surface is a plane.  -- Plane scale (Naut.), a scale for the use of navigators, on which are graduated chords, sines, tangents, secants, rhumbs, geographical miles, etc.  -- Plane surveying, surveying in which the curvature of the earth is disregarded; ordinary field and topographical surveying of tracts of moderate extent.  -- Plane table, an instrument used for plotting the lines of a survey on paper in the field.  -- Plane trigonometry, the branch of trigonometry in which its principles are applied to plane triangles. 

PLANE:  A surface, real or imaginary, in which, if any two points are taken, the straight line which joins them lies wholly in that surface; or a surface, any section of which by a like surface is a straight line; a surface without curvature.  2. (Astron.)  An ideal surface, conceived as coinciding with, or containing, some designated astronomical line, circle, or other curve; as, the plane of an orbit; the plane of the ecliptic, or of the equator.  3. (Mech.)  A block or plate having a perfectly flat surface, used as a standard of flatness; a surface plate.  4. (Joinery)  A tool for smoothing boards or other surfaces of wood, for forming moldings, etc. It consists of a smooth-soled stock, usually of wood, from the under side or face of which projects slightly the steel cutting edge of a chisel, called the iron, which inclines backward, with an apperture in front for the escape of shavings; as, the jack plane; the smoothing plane; the molding plane, etc. Objective plane (Surv.), the horizontal plane upon which the object which is to be delineated, or whose place is to be determined, is supposed to stand.  -- Perspective plane. See Perspective.  -- Plane at infinity (Geom.), a plane in which points infinitely distant are conceived as situated.  -- Plane iron, the cutting chisel of a joiner's plane.  -- Plane of polarization. (Opt.) See Polarization.  -- Plane of projection. (a) The plane on which the projection is made, corresponding to the perspective plane in perspective; -- called also principal plane. (b) (Descriptive Geom.) One of the planes to which points are referred for the purpose of determining their relative position in space.  -- Plane of refraction or reflection (Opt.), the plane in which lie both the incident ray and the refracted or reflected ray. 

PLANE:  Having opposite surfaces exactly plane and parallel, as a piece of glass. 

PLANER:  A wooden block used for forcing down the type in a form, and making the surface even. Hansard. Planer centers. See under Center.  PLANER TREE Plan"er tree`. Etym: [From J.S.Planer, a German botanist.] (Bot.)  A small-leaved North American tree (Planera aquatica) related to the elm, but having a wingless, nutlike fruit. 

PLANET:  A celestial body which revolves about the sun in an orbit of a moderate degree of eccentricity. It is distinguished from a comet by the absence of a coma, and by having a less eccentric orbit. See Solar system.  Note: The term planet was first used to distinguish those stars which have an apparent motion through the constellations from the fixed stars, which retain their relative places unchanged. The inferior planets are Mercury and Venus, which are nearer to the sun than is the earth; the superior planets are Mars, the asteroids, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune, which are farther from the sun than is the earth. Primary planets are those which revolve about the sun; secondary planets, or moons, are those which revolve around the primary planets as satellites, and at the same time revolve with them about the sun.  2. A star, as influencing the fate of a men. There's some ill planet reigns. Shak. Planet gear. (Mach.) See Epicyclic train, under Epicyclic.  -- Planet wheel, a gear wheel which revolves around the wheel with which it meshes, in an epicyclic train.  PLANE TABLE Plane" ta`ble.  See under Plane, a. 

PLANETARIUM:  An orrery. See Orrery. 

PLANETARY:  Under the dominion or influence of a planet. "Skilled in the planetary hours." Drayton.  4. Caused by planets. "A planetary plague." Shak.  5. Having the nature of a planet; erratic; revolving; wandering. "Erratical and planetary life." Fuller. Planetary days, the days of the week as shared among the planets known to the ancients, each having its day. Hutton.  -- Planetary nebula, a nebula exhibiting a uniform disk, like that of a planet. 

PLANETED:  Belonging to planets. [R.] Young.  PLANETIC; PLANETICAL Pla*net"ic, Pla*net"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. planeticus, Gr.  Of or pertaining to planets. Sir T. Browne. 

PLANETOID:  A body resembling a planet; an asteroid. 

PLANETOIDAL:  Pertaining to a planetoid.  PLANE TREE Plane" tree`. (Bot.)  Same as 1st Plane.  PLANET-STRICKEN; PLANET-STRUCK Plan"et-strick`en, Plan"et-struck`, a.  Affected by the influence of planets; blasted. Milton. Like planet-stricken men of yore He trembles, smitten to the core By strong compunction and remorse. Wordsworth. 

PLANETULE:  A little planet. [R.] Conybeare. 

PLANGENCY:  The quality or state of being plangent; a beating sound. [R.] 

PLANGENT:  Beating; dashing, as a wave. [R.] "The plangent wave." H. Taylor.  PLANI-; PLANO- Plan"i-, Plan"o-. Etym: [L. planus. See Plane, a.]  Combining forms signifying flat, level, plane; as planifolious, planimetry, plano-concave. 

PLANIFOLIOUS:  Flat-leaved. 

PLANIFORM:  Having a plane surface; as, a planiform, gliding, or arthrodial articulation. 

PLANIMETER:  An instrument for measuring the area of any plane figure, however irregular, by passing a tracer around the bounding line; a platometer.  PLANIMETRIC; PLANIMETRICAL Plan`i*met"ric, Plan`i*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. planimétrique.]  Of or pertaining to planimetry. 

PLANIMETRY:  The mensuration of plane surfaces; -- distinguished from stereometry, or the mensuration of volumes. 

PLANING:  a. & vb. n. fr. Plane, v. t. Planing machine. (a) See Planer. (b) A complex machine for planing wood, especially boards, containing usually a rapidly revolving cutter, which chips off the surface in small shavings as the piece to be planed is passed under it by feeding apparatus. 

PLANIPENNATE:  Of or pertaining to Planipennia. 

PLANIPENNIA:  A suborder of Neuroptera, including those that have broad, flat wings, as the ant-lion, lacewing, etc. Called also Planipennes. 

PLANIPETALOUS:  Having flat petals. 

PLANISH:  To make smooth or plane, as a metallic surface; to condense, toughen, and polish by light blows with a hammer. 

PLANISHER:  One who, or that which, planishes. Weale. 

PLANISHING:  a. & vb. n. from Planish, v. t. Planishing rolls (Coining), rolls between which metal strips are passed while cold, to bring them to exactly the required thickness. 

PLANISPHERE:  The representation of the circles of the sphere upon a plane; especially, a representation of the celestial sphere upon a plane with adjustable circles, or other appendages, for showing the position of the heavens, the time of rising and setting of stars, etc., for any given date or hour. 

PLANISPHERIC:  Of or pertaining to a planisphere. 

PLANK:  To splice together the ends of slivers of wool, for subsequent drawing. Planked shad, shad split open, fastened to a plank, and roasted before a wood fire. 

PLANKING:  The course of plank laid horizontally over the timberheads of a vessel's frame. 

PLANKTON:  All the animals and plants, taken collectively, which live at or near the surface of salt or fresh waters. --Plank*ton"ic (#), a. 

PLANLESS:  Having no plan. 

PLANNER:  One who plans; a projector.  PLANO- Pla"no-.  See Plani-. 

PLANOBLAST:  Any free-swimming gonophore of a hydroid; a hydroid medusa.  PLANO-CONCAVE Pla"no-con"cave, a. Etym: [Plano- + concave.]  Plane or flat on one side, and concave on the other; as, a plano-concave lens. See Lens.  PLANO-CONICAL Pla"no-con"ic*al, a. Etym: [Plano- + conical.]  Plane or flat on one side, and conical on the other. Grew.  PLANO-CONVEX Pla"no-con"vex, a. Etym: [Plano- + convex.]  Plane or flat on one side, and convex on the other; as, a plano-convex lens. See Convex, and Lens. 

PLANOGAMETE:  One of the motile ciliated gametes, or zoögametes, found in isogamous plants, as many green algæ (Chlorophyceæ).  PLANO-HORIZONTAL Pla"no-hor`i*zon"tal, a. Etym: [Plano- + horizontal.]  Having a level horizontal surface or position. Lee. 

PLANOMETER:  An instrument for gauging or testing a plane surface. See Surface gauge, under Surface. 

PLANOMETRY:  The art or process of producing or gauging a plane surface.  PLANO-ORBICULAR Pla"no-or*bic"u*lar, a. Etym: [Plano- + orbicular.]  Plane or flat on one side, and spherical on the other. 

PLANORBIS:  Any fresh-water air-breathing mollusk belonging to Planorbis and other allied genera, having shells of a discoidal form.  PLANO-SUBULATE Pla"no-su"bu*late, a. Etym: [Plano- + subulate.]  Smooth and awl-shaped. See Subulate. 

PLANT:  The whole machinery and apparatus employed in carrying on a trade or mechanical business; also, sometimes including real estate, and whatever represents investment of capital in the means of carrying on a business, but not including material worked upon or finished products; as, the plant of a foundry, a mill, or a railroad.  5. A plan; an artifice; a swindle; a trick. [Slang] It was n't a bad plant, that of mine, on Fikey. Dickens.  6. (Zoöl.) (a) An oyster which has been bedded, in distinction from one of natural growth. (b) A young oyster suitable for transplanting. [Local, U.S.] Plant bug (Zoöl.), any one of numerous hemipterous insects which injure the foliage of plants, as Lygus lineolaris, which damages wheat and trees.  -- Plant cutter (Zoöl.), a South American passerine bird of the genus Phytotoma, family Phytotomidæ. It has a serrated bill with which it cuts off the young shoots and buds of plants, often doing much injury.  -- Plant louse (Zoöl.), any small hemipterous insect which infests plants, especially those of the families Aphidæ and Psyllidæ; an aphid. 

PLANT:  To perform the act of planting. I have planted; Apollos watered. 1 Cor. iii. 6. 

PLANTABLE:  Capable of being planted; fit to be planted. B. Edwards. 

PLANTAGE:  A word used once by Shakespeare to designate plants in general, or anything that is planted. As true as steel, as plantage to the moon. Shak. (Troil. iii. sc. 2). 

PLANTAIN:  A treelike perennial herb (Musa paradisiaca) of tropical regions, bearing immense leaves and large clusters of the fruits called plantains. See Musa.  2. The fruit of this plant. It is long and somewhat cylindrical, slightly curved, and, when ripe, soft, fleshy, and covered with a thick but tender yellowish skin. The plantain is a staple article of food in most tropical countries, especially when cooked. Plantain cutter, or Plantain eater (Zoöl.), any one of several large African birds of the genus Musophaga, or family Musophagidæ, especially Musophaga violacea. See Turaco. They are allied to the cuckoos.  -- Plantain squirrel (Zoöl.), a Java squirrel (Sciurus plantani) which feeds upon plantains.  -- Plantain tree (Bot.), the treelike herb Musa paradisiaca. See def. 1 (above). 

PLANTAIN:  Any plant of the genus Plantago, but especially the P. major, a low herb with broad spreading radical leaves, and slender spikes of minute flowers. It is a native of Europe, but now found near the abode of civilized man in nearly all parts of the world. Indian plantain. (Bot.) See under Indian.  -- Mud plantain, a homely North American aquatic plant (Heteranthera reniformis), having broad, reniform leaves.  -- Rattlesnake plantain, an orchidaceous plant (Goodyera pubescens), with the leaves blotched and spotted with white.  -- Ribwort plantain. See Ribwort.  -- Robin's plantain, the Erigeron bellidifolium, a common daisylike plant of North America.  -- Water plantain, a plant of the genus Alisma, having acrid leaves, and formerly regarded as a specific against hydrophobia. Loudon. 

PLANTAL:  Belonging to plants; as, plantal life. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PLANTAR:  Of or pertaining to the sole of the foot; as, the plantar arteries. 

PLANTATION:  A stalk or shoot of sugar cane of the first growth from the cutting. The growth of the second and following years is of inferior quality, and is called rattoon.  PLANT-EATING Plant"-eat`ing, a.  Eating, or subsisting on, plants; as, a plant-eating beetle. 

PLANTED:  Fixed in place, as a projecting member wrought on a separate piece of stuff; as, a planted molding. 

PLANTERSHIP:  The occupation or position of a planter, or the management of a plantation, as in the United States or the West Indies. 

PLANTICLE:  A young plant, or plant in embryo. E. Darwin. 

PLANTIGRADA:  A subdivision of Carnivora having plantigrade feet. It includes the bears, raccoons, and allied species. 

PLANTIGRADE:  A plantigrade animal, or one that walks or steps on the sole of the foot, as man, and the bears. 

PLANTING:  The laying of the first courses of stone in a foundation. [Eng.] 

PLANTLESS:  Without plants; barren of vegetation. 

PLANTLET:  A little plant. 

PLANTOCRACY:  Government by planters; planters, collectively. [R.] 

PLANTULE:  The embryo which has begun its development in the act of germination. 

PLANULA:  In embryonic development, a vesicle filled with fluid, formed from the morula by the divergence of its cells in such a manner as to give rise to a central space, around which the cells arrange themselves as an envelope; an embryonic form intermediate between the morula and gastrula. Sometimes used as synonymous with gastrula.  2. (Zoöl.)  The very young, free-swimming larva of the coelenterates. It usually has a flattened oval or oblong form, and is entirely covered with cilia. 

PLANXTY:  An Irish or Welsh melody for the harp, sometimes of a mournful character. 

PLAQUE:  Any flat, thin piece of metal, clay, ivory, or the like, used for ornament, or for painting pictures upon, as a slab, plate, dish, or the like, hung upon a wall; also, a smaller decoration worn on the person, as a brooch. 

PLAQUETTE:  A small plaque, esp., in modern medal engraving, a small and delicate bas-relief, whether cast or struck from a die, or of form other than circular. 

PLASH:  To dabble in water; to splash. "Plashing among bedded pebbles." Keats. Far below him plashed the waters. Longfellow. 

PLASH:  To cut partly, or to bend and intertwine the branches of; as, to plash a hedge. Evelyn. 

PLASH:  The branch of a tree partly cut or bent, and bound to, or intertwined with, other branches. 

PLASHET:  A small pond or pool; a puddle. 

PLASHOOT:  A hedge or fence formed of branches of trees interlaced, or plashed. [Obs.] Carew. 

PLASM:  Same as Plasma. 

PLASMA:  A variety of quartz, of a color between grass green and leek green, which is found associated with common chalcedony. It was much esteemed by the ancients for making engraved ornaments.  2. (Biol.)  The viscous material of an animal or vegetable cell, out of which the various tissues are formed by a process of differentiation; protoplasm.  3. Unorganized material; elementary matter.  4. (Med.)  A mixture of starch and glycerin, used as a substitute for ointments. U. S. Disp. Blood plasma (Physiol.), the colorless fluid of the blood, in which the red and white blood corpuscles are suspended.  -- Muscle plasma (Physiol.), the fundamental part of muscle fibers, a thick, viscid, albuminous fluid contained within the sarcolemma, which on the death of the muscle coagulates to a semisolid mass.  PLASMATIC; PLASMATICAL Plas*mat"ic, Plas*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  1. Forming; shaping; molding. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.  2. (Biol.)  Of or pertaining to plasma; having the character of plasma; containing, or conveying, plasma. 

PLASMATION:  The act of forming or molding. [R.] Grafton. 

PLASMATOR:  A former; a fashioner. [R.] "The sovereign plasmator, God Almighty." Urquhart. 

PLASMATURE:  Form; mold. [R.] 

PLASMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or connected with, plasma; plasmatic.  A piece of DNA, usually circular, functioning as part of the genetic material of a cell, not integrated with the chromosome and replicating independently of the chromosome, but transferred, like the chromosome, to subsequent generations. In bacteria, plasmids often carry the genes for antibiotic resistance; they are exploited in genetic engineering as the vehicles for introduction of extraneous DNA into cells, to alter the genetic makeup of the cell. The cells thus altered may produce desirable proteins which are extracted and used; in the case of genetically altered plant cells, the altered cells may grow into complete plants with changed properties, as for example, increased resistance to disease. . 

PLASMIN:  A proteid body, separated by some physiologists from blood plasma. It is probably identical with fibrinogen. 

PLASMODIAL:  Of or pertaining to, or like, a plasmodium; as, the plasmodial form of a life cycle. 

PLASMODIUM:  A jellylike mass of free protoplasm, without any union of amoeboid cells, and endowed with life and power of motion.  2. (Zoöl.)  A naked mobile mass of protoplasm, formed by the union of several amoebalike young, and constituting one of the stages in the life cycle of Mycetozoa and other low organisms. 

PLASMOGEN:  The important living portion of protoplasm, considered a chemical substance of the highest elaboration. Germ plasm and idioplasm are forms of plasmogen.  PLASMON; PLASMON BUTTER Plas"mon, n. [Cf. Plasma.]  A flourlike food preparation made from skim milk, and consisting essentially of the unaltered proteid of milk. It is also used in making biscuits and crackers, for mixing with cocoa, etc. A mixture of this with butter, water, and salt is called Plasmon butter, and resembles clotted cream in appearance. 

PLASSON:  The albuminous material composing the body of a cytode.  Note: It is considered simpler than protoplasm of an ordinary cell in that it has not undergone differentiation into the inner cell nucleus and the outer cell substance. Haeckel. 

PLASTER:  An external application of a consistency harder than ointment, prepared for use by spreading it on linen, leather, silk, or other material. It is adhesive at the ordinary temperature of the body, and is used, according to its composition, to produce a medicinal effect, to bind parts together, etc.; as, a porous plaster; sticking plaster.  2. A composition of lime, water, and sand, with or without hair as a bond, for coating walls, ceilings, and partitions of houses. See Mortar.  3. Calcined gypsum, or plaster of Paris, especially when ground, as used for making ornaments, figures, moldings, etc.; or calcined gypsum used as a fertilizer. Plaster cast, a copy of an object obtained by pouring plaster of Paris mixed with water into a mold.  -- Plaster of Paris. Etym: [So called because originally brought from a suburb of Paris.] (Chem.) Anhydrous calcium sulphate, or calcined gypsum, which forms with water a paste which soon sets or hardens, and is used for casts, moldings, etc. The term is loosely applied to any plaster stone or species of gypsum.  -- Plaster of Paris bandage (Surg.), a bandage saturated with a paste of plaster of Paris, which on drying forms a perfectly fitting splint.  -- Plaster stone, any species of gypsum. See Gypsum. 

PLASTERLY:  Resembling plaster of Paris. [R.] "Out of gypseous or plasterly ground." Fuller. 

PLASTERWORK:  Plastering used to finish architectural constructions, exterior or interior, especially that used for the lining of rooms. Ordinarly, mortar is used for the greater part of the work, and pure plaster of Paris for the moldings and ornaments. 

PLASTERY:  Of the nature of plaster. The stone . . . is a poor plastery material. Clough.  -PLASTIC -plas"tic. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form signifying developing, forming, growing; as, heteroplastic, monoplastic, polyplastic. 

PLASTIC:  a substance composed predominantly of a synthetic organic high polymer capable of being cast or molded; many varieties of plastic are used to produce articles of commerce (after 1900). [MW10 gives origin of word as 1905] 

PLASTICAL:  See Plastic. [R.] 

PLASTICALLY:  In a plastic manner. 

PLASTICITY:  Plastic force. Dunglison.  PLASTID; PLASTIDE Plas"tid, Plas"tide, n. Etym: [Gr.  1. (Biol.)  A formative particle of albuminous matter; a monad; a cytode. See the Note under Morphon. Haeckel.  2. (Bot.)  One of the many minute granules found in the protoplasm of vegetable cells. They are divided by their colors into three classes, chloroplastids, chromoplastids, and leucoplastids. 

PLASTIDOZOA:  Same as Protoza. 

PLASTIDULE:  One of the small particles or organic molecules of protoplasm. Haeckel. 

PLASTIN:  A substance associated with nuclein in cell nuclei, and by some considered as the fundamental substance of the nucleus. 

PLASTRON:  An iron breastplate, worn under the hauberk.  3. (Anat.)  The ventral shield or shell of tortoises and turtles. See Testudinata.  4. A trimming for the front of a woman's dress, made of a different material, and narrowing from the shoulders to the waist.  -PLASTY -plas"ty. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form denoting the act or process of forming, development, growth; as, autoplasty, perineoplasty. 

PLAT:  To form by interlaying interweaving; to braid; to plait. "They had platted a crown of thorns." Matt. xxvii. 29. 

PLAT:  Work done by platting or braiding; a plait. Her hair, nor loose, nor tied in formal plat. Shak. 

PLAT:  A small piece or plot of ground laid out with some design, or for a special use; usually, a portion of flat, even ground. This flowery plat, the sweet recess of Eve. Milton. I keep smooth plat of fruitful ground. Tennyson. 

PLAT:  To lay out in plats or plots, as ground. 

PLAT:  Plain; flat; level. [Obs.] Gower. 

PLATAN:  The plane tree. Tennyson. 

PLATANIST:  The soosoo. 

PLATANUS:  A genus of trees; the plane tree. 

PLATE:  A piece of money, usually silver money. [Obs.] "Realms and islands were as plates dropp'd from his pocket." Shak.  7. A piece of metal on which anything is engraved for the purpose of being printed; hence, an impression from the engraved metal; as, a book illustrated with plates; a fashion plate.  8. A page of stereotype, electrotype, or the like, for printing from; as, publisher's plates.  9. That part of an artificial set of teeth which fits to the mouth, and holds the teeth in place. It may be of gold, platinum, silver, rubber, celluloid, etc.  10. (Arch.)  A horizontal timber laid upon a wall, or upon corbels projecting from a wall, and supporting the ends of other timbers; also used specifically of the roof plate which supports the ends of the roof trusses or, in simple work, the feet of the rafters.  11. (Her.)  A roundel of silver or tinctured argent.  12. (Photog.)  A sheet of glass, porcelain, metal, etc., with a coating that is sensitive to light.  13. A prize giving to the winner in a contest.  Note: Plate is sometimes used in an adjectival sense or in combination, the phrase or compound being in most cases of obvious signification; as, plate basket or plate-basket, plate rack or plate- rack. Home plate. (Baseball) See Home base, under Home.  -- Plate armor. (a) See Plate, n., 2. (b) Strong metal plates for protecting war vessels, fortifications, and the like.  -- Plate bone, the shoulder blade, or scapula.  -- Plate girder, a girder, the web of which is formed of a single vertical plate, or of a series of such plates riveted together.  -- Plate glass. See under Glass.  -- Plate iron, wrought iron plates.  -- Plate layer, a workman who lays down the rails of a railway and fixes them to the sleepers or ties.  -- Plate mark, a special mark or emblematic figure stamped upon gold or silver plate, to indicate the place of manufacture, the degree of purity, and the like; thus, the local mark for London is a lion.  -- Plate paper, a heavy spongy paper, for printing from engraved plates. Fairholt.  -- Plate press, a press with a flat carriage and a roller, -- used for printing from engraved steel or copper plates.  -- Plate printer, one who prints from engraved plates.  -- Plate printing, the act or process of printing from an engraved plate or plates.  -- Plate tracery. (Arch.) See under Tracery.  -- Plate wheel (Mech.), a wheel, the rim and hub of which are connected by a continuous plate of metal, instead of by arms or spokes. 

PLATEFUL:  Enough to fill a plate; as much as a plate will hold.  PLATE-GILLED Plate"-gilled`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having flat, or leaflike, gills, as the bivalve mollusks. 

PLATEL:  A small dish. 

PLATER:  One who plates or coats articles with gold or silver; as, a silver plater.  2. A machine for calendering paper. 

PLATERESQUE:  Resembling silver plate; -- said of certain architectural ornaments. 

PLATETROPE:  One of a pair of a paired organs. 

PLATFORM:  A light deck, usually placed in a section of the hold or over the floor of the magazine. See Orlop. Platform car, a railway car without permanent raised sides or covering; a f -- Platform scale, a weighing machine, with a flat platform on which objects are weighed. 

PLATHELMINTH:  One of the Platyelminthes. 

PLATHELMINTHES:  Same as Platyelminthes. 

PLATIN:  See Platen. 

PLATINA:  Platinum. Platina mohr, platinum black.  -- Platina yellow, a pigment prepared from platinum. 

PLATINIC:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, platinum; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a higher valence, as contrasted with the platinous compounds; as, platinic chloride (PtCl4). 

PLATINICHLORIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid consisting of platinic chloride and hydrochloric acid, and obtained as a brownish red crystalline substance, called platinichloric, or chloroplatinic, acid. 

PLATINIFEROUS:  Yielding platinum; as, platiniferous sand. 

PLATINIRIDIUM:  A natural alloy of platinum and iridium occurring in grayish metallic rounded or cubical grains with platinum. 

PLATINIZE:  To cover or combine with platinum. 

PLATINOCHLORIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid consisting of platinous chloride and hydrochloric acid, called platinochloric, or chloroplatinous, acid. 

PLATINOCHLORIDE:  A double chloride of platinum and some other metal or radical; a salt of platinochloric acid. 

PLATINOCYANIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid compound of platinous cyanide and hydrocyanic acid. It is obtained as a cinnaber-red crystalline substance. 

PLATINOCYANIDE:  A double cyanide of platinum and some other metal or radical; a salt of platinocyanic acid. 

PLATINODE:  A cathode. [R.] 

PLATINOID:  Resembling platinum. 

PLATINOID:  An alloy of German silver containing tungsten; -- used for forming electrical resistance coils and standards. 

PLATINOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, platinum; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a lower valence, as contrasted with the platinic compounds; as, platinous chloride (PtCl2). 

PLATINUM:  A metallic element, intermediate in value between silver and gold, occurring native or alloyed with other metals, also as the platinum arsenide (sperrylite). It is heavy tin-white metal which is ductile and malleable, but very infusible, and characterized by its resistance to strong chemical reagents. It is used for crucibles, for stills for sulphuric acid, rarely for coin, and in the form of foil and wire for many purposes. Specific gravity 21.5. Atomic weight 194.3. Symbol Pt. Formerly called platina. Platinum black (Chem.), a soft, dull black powder, consisting of finely divided metallic platinum obtained by reduction and precipitation from its solutions. It absorbs oxygen to a high degree, and is employed as an oxidizer.  -- Platinum lamp (Elec.), a kind of incandescent lamp of which the luminous medium is platinum. See under Incandescent.  -- Platinum metals (Chem.), the group of metallic elements which in their chemical and physical properties resemble platinum. These consist of the light platinum group, viz., rhodium, ruthenium, and palladium, whose specific gravities are about 12; and the heavy platinum group, viz., osmium, iridium, and platinum, whose specific gravities are over 21.  -- Platinum sponge (Chem.), metallic platinum in a gray, porous, spongy form, obtained by reducing the double chloride of platinum and ammonium. It absorbs oxygen, hydrogen, and certain other gases, to a high degree, and is employed as an agent in oxidizing. 

PLATITUDINARIAN:  One addicted to uttering platitudes, or stale and insipid truisms. "A political platitudinarian." G. Eliot. 

PLATITUDINIZE:  To utter platitudes or truisms. 

PLATITUDINOUS:  Abounding in platitudes; of the nature of platitudes; uttering platitudes.  -- Plat`i*tu"di*nous*ness, n. 

PLATLY:  Flatly. See Plat, a. [Obs.] 

PLATNESS:  Flatness. [Obs.] Palsgrave. 

PLATOMETER:  See Planimeter.  PLATONIC; PLATONICAL Pla*ton"ic, Pla*ton"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Platonicus, Gr. platonique.]  1. Of or pertaining to Plato, or his philosophy, school, or opinions.  2. Pure, passionless; nonsexual; philosophical. Platonic bodies, the five regular geometrical solids; namely, the tetrahedron, hexahedron or cube, octahedron, dodecahedron, and icosahedron.  -- Platonic love, a pure, spiritual affection, subsisting between persons of opposite sex, unmixed with carnal desires, and regarding the mind only and its excellences; -- a species of love for which Plato was a warm advocate.  -- Platonic year (Astron.), a period of time determined by the revolution of the equinoxes, or the space of time in which the stars and constellations return to their former places in respect to the equinoxes; -- called also great year. This revolution, which is caused by the precession of the equinoxes, is accomplished in about 26,000 years. Barlow. 

PLATONIC:  A follower of Plato; a Platonist. 

PLATONICALLY:  In a Platonic manner. 

PLATONIST:  One who adheres to the philosophy of Plato; a follower of Plato. Hammond. 

PLATONIZE:  To adopt the opinion of Plato or his followers. Milner. 

PLATONIZE:  To explain by, or accomodate to, the Platonic philosophy. Enfield. 

PLATONIZER:  One who Platonizes. 

PLATT:  See Lodge, n. Raymond. 

PLATTDEUTSCH:  The modern dialects spoken in the north of Germany, taken collectively; modern Low German. See Low German, under German. 

PLATTEN:  To flatten and make into sheets or plates; as, to platten cylinder glass. 

PLATTER:  One who plats or braids. 

PLATTER:  A large plate or shallow dish on which meat or other food is brought to the table. The attendants . . . speedly brought in several large, smoking platters, filled with huge pieces of beef. Sir W. Scott.  PLATTER-FACED Plat"ter-faced`, a.  Having a broad, flat face. 

PLATTING:  Plaited strips or bark, cane, straw, etc., used for making hats or the like. 

PLATY:  Like a plate; consisting of plates.  PLATY- Plat"y-.  A combining form from Gr. platy`s broad, wide, flat; as, platypus, platycephalous.  PLATYCEPHALIC; PLATYCEPHALOUS Plat`y*ce*phal"ic, Plat`y*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Platy + Gr. (Anat.)  Broad-headed. 

PLATYCNEMIC:  Of, relating to, or characterized by, platycnemism. 

PLATYCNEMISM:  Lateral flattening of the tibia. 

PLATYCOELIAN:  Flat at the anterior and concave at the posterior end; -- said of the centra of the vertebræ of some extinct dinouaurs. 

PLATYELMINTHES:  A class of helminthes including the cestodes, or tapeworms, the trematodes, and the turbellarians. Called also flatworms. 

PLATYHELMIA:  Same as Platyelminthes. [Written also Platyelmia.] 

PLATYMETER:  An apparatus for measuring the capacity of condensers, or the inductive capacity of dielectrics. 

PLATYPOD:  An animal having broad feet, or a broad foot. 

PLATYPODA:  Same as Prosobranchiata. 

PLATYPTERA:  A division of Pseudoneuroptera including the species which have four broad, flat wings, as the termites, or white-ants, and the stone flies (Perla). 

PLATYPUS:  The duck mole. See under Duck. 

PLATYRHINE:  Having the nose broad; -- opposed to Ant: leptorhine.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  One of the Platyrhini. 

PLATYRHINI:  A division of monkeys, including the American species, which have a broad nasal septum, thirty-six teeth, and usually a prehensile tail. See Monkey. [Written also Platyrrhini.] 

PLAUD:  To applaud. [Obs.] Chapman. 

PLAUDIT:  A mark or expression of applause; praise bestowed. Not in the shouts and plaudits of the throng. Longfellow.  Syn.  -- Acclamation; applause; encomium; commendation; approbation; approval. 

PLAUDITORY:  Applauding; commending. 

PLAUSIBLEIZE:  To render plausible. [R.] 

PLAUSIBLENESS:  Quality of being plausible. 

PLAYA:  A beach; a strand; in the plains and deserts of Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona, a broad, level spot, on which subsequently becomes dry by evaporation. Bartlett. 

PLAYBILL:  A printed programme of a play, with the parts assigned to the actors. 

PLAYBOOK:  A book of dramatic compositions; a book of the play. Swift. 

PLAYDAY:  A day given to play or diversion; a holiday. Swift. 

PLAYFELLOW:  A companion in amusements or sports; a playmate. Shak. 

PLAYFERE:  A playfellow. [Obs.] [Also, playfeer, playphere.] Holinsheld. 

PLAYFUL:  Sportive; gamboling; frolicsome; indulging a sportive fancy; humorous; merry; as, a playful child; a playful writer.  -- Play"ful*ly, adv.  -- Play"ful*ness, n. 

PLAYGAME:  Play of children. Locke. 

PLAYGOER:  One who frequents playhouses, or attends dramatic performances. 

PLAYGOING:  Frequenting playhouses; as, the playgoing public.  -- n.  The practice of going to plays. 

PLAYGROUND:  A piece of ground used for recreation; as, the playground of a school. 

PLAYING:  a. & vb. n. of Play. Playing cards. See under Card. 

PLAYMAKER:  A playwright. [R.] 

PLAYMATE:  A companion in diversions; a playfellow. 

PLAYSOME:  Playful; wanton; sportive. [R.] R. Browning.  -- Play"some*ness, n. [R.] 

PLAYTE:  See Pleyt. 

PLAYTHING:  A thing to play with; a toy; anything that serves to amuse. A child knows his nurse, and by degrees the playthings of a little more advanced age. Locke. 

PLAYTIME:  Time for play or diversion. 

PLAYWRIGHT:  A maker or adapter of plays. 

PLAYWRITER:  A writer of plays; a dramatist; a playwright. Lecky. 

PLAZA:  A public square in a city or town. 

PLEA:  That which is alleged by a party in support of his cause; in a stricter sense, an allegation of fact in a cause, as distinguished from a demurrer; in a still more limited sense, and in modern practice, the defendant's answer to the plaintiff's declaration and demand. That which the plaintiff alleges in his declaration is answered and repelled or justified by the defendant's plea. In chancery practice, a plea is a special answer showing or relying upon one or more things as a cause why the suit should be either dismissed, delayed, or barred. In criminal practice, the plea is the defendant's formal answer to the indictment or information presented against him.  2. (Law)  A cause in court; a lawsuit; as, the Court of Common Pleas. See under Common. The Supreme Judicial Court shall have cognizance of pleas real, personal, and mixed. Laws of Massachusetts.  3. That which is alleged or pleaded, in defense or in justification; an excuse; an apology. "Necessity, the tyrant's plea." Milton. No plea must serve; 't is cruelty to spare. Denham.  4. An urgent prayer or entreaty. Pleas of the crown (Eng. Law), criminal actions. 

PLEACH:  To unite by interweaving, as branches of trees; to plash; to interlock. "The pleached bower." Shak. 

PLEAD:  To present an answer, by allegation of fact, to the declaration of a plaintiff; to deny the plaintiff's declaration and demand, or to allege facts which show that ought not to recover in the suit; in a less strict sense, to make an allegation of fact in a cause; to carry on the allegations of the respective parties in a cause; to carry on a suit or plea. Blackstone. Burrill. Stephen.  3. To contend; to struggle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PLEADABLE:  Capable of being pleaded; capable of being alleged in proof, defense, or vindication; as, a right or privilege pleadable at law. Dryden. 

PLEADER:  One who draws up or forms pleas; the draughtsman of pleas or pleadings in the widest sense; as, a special pleader. 

PLEADING:  The act of advocating, defending, or supporting, a cause by arguments. 

PLEADINGLY:  In a pleading manner. 

PLEADINGS:  The mutual pleas and replies of the plaintiff and defendant, or written statements of the parties in support of their claims, proceeding from the declaration of the plaintiff, until issue is joined, and the question made to rest on some single point. Blackstone. 

PLEASANT:  A wit; a humorist; a buffoon. [Obs.] 

PLEASANTLY:  In a pleasant manner. 

PLEASANTNESS:  The state or quality of being pleasant. 

PLEASANTRY:  That which denotes or promotes pleasure or good humor; cheerfulness; gayety; merriment; especially, an agreeable playfulness in conversation; a jocose or humorous remark; badinage. The grave abound in pleasantries, the dull in repartees and points of wit. Addison. The keen observation and ironical pleasantry of a finished man of the world. Macaulay.  PLEASANT-TONGUED Pleas"ant-tongued`, a.  Of pleasing speech. 

PLEASED:  Experiencing pleasure.  -- Pleas"ed*ly, adv.  -- Pleas"ed*ness, n. 

PLEASEMAN:  An officious person who courts favor servilely; a pickthank. [Obs.] Shak. 

PLEASER:  One who pleases or gratifies. 

PLEASING:  Giving pleasure or satisfaction; causing agreeable emotion; agreeable; delightful; as, a pleasing prospect; pleasing manners. "Pleasing harmony." Shak. "Pleasing features." Macaulay.  -- Pleas"ing*ly, adv.  -- Pleas"ing*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Gratifying; delightful; agreeable. See Pleasant. 

PLEASING:  An object of pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PLEASURABLE:  Capable of affording pleasure or satisfaction; gratifying; abounding in pleasantness or pleasantry. Planting of orchards is very . . . pleasurable. Bacon. O, sir, you are very pleasurable. B. Jonson. -- Pleas"ur*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Pleas"ur*a*bly, adv. 

PLEASURE:  To give or afford pleasure to; to please; to gratify. Shak. [Rolled] his hoop to pleasure Edith. Tennyson. 

PLEASURE:  To take pleasure; to seek pursue pleasure; as, to go pleasuring. 

PLEASUREFUL:  Affording pleasure. [R.] 

PLEASURELESS:  Devoid of pleasure. G. Eliot. 

PLEASURER:  A pleasure seeker. Dickens. 

PLEASURIST:  A person devoted to worldly pleasure. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PLEAT:  See Plait. 

PLEBE:  A member of the lowest class in the military academy at West Point. [Cant, U.S.] 

PLEBEIANIZE:  To render plebeian, common, or vulgar. 

PLEBICOLIST:  One who flatters, or courts the favor of, the common people; a demagogue. [R.] 

PLEBIFICATION:  A rendering plebeian; the act of vulgarizing. [R.] You begin with the attempt to popularize learning . . . but you will end in the plebification of knowledge. Coleridge. 

PLEBISCITARY:  Of or pertaining to plebiscite. The Century. 

PLEBISCITE:  A vote by universal male suffrage; especially, in France, a popular vote, as first sanctioned by the National Constitution of 1791. [Written also plebiscit.] Plebiscite we have lately taken, in popular use, from the French. Fitzed. Hall. 

PLEBISCITUM:  A law enacted by the common people, under the superintendence of a tribune or some subordinate plebeian magistrate, without the intervention of the senate. 

PLECTILE:  Woven; plaited. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PLECTOGNATH:  Of or pertaining to the Plectognathi.  -- n.  One of the Plectognathi. 

PLECTOGNATHI:  An order of fishes generally having the maxillary bone united with the premaxillary, and the articular united with the dentary.  Note: The upper jaw is immovably joined to the skull; the ventral fins are rudimentary or wanting; and the body is covered with bony plates, spines, or small rough ossicles, like shagreen. The order includes the diodons, filefishes, globefishes, and trunkfishes.  PLECTOGNATHIC; PLEC-TOGNATHOUS Plec`tog*nath"ic, Plec-tog"na*thous, a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Plectognathi. 

PLECTOSPONDYLI:  An extensive suborder of fresh-water physostomous fishes having the anterior vertebræ united and much modified; the Eventognathi. 

PLECTOSPONDYLOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Plectospondyli. 

PLECTRUM:  A small instrument of ivory, wood, metal, or quill, used in playing upon the lyre and other stringed instruments. 

PLED:  imp. & p. p. of Plead [Colloq.] Spenser. 

PLEDGE:  The transfer of possession of personal property from a debtor to a creditor as security for a debt or engagement; also, the contract created between the debtor and creditor by a thing being so delivered or deposited, forming a species of bailment; also, that which is so delivered or deposited; something put in pawn.  Note: Pledge is ordinarily confined to personal property; the title or ownership does not pass by it; possession is essential to it. In all these points it differs from a mortgage [see Mortgage]; and in the last, from the hypotheca of the Roman law. See Hypotheca. Story. Kent.  2. (Old Eng. Law)  A person who undertook, or became responsible, for another; a bail; a surety; a hostage. "I am Grumio's pledge." Shak.  3. A hypothecation without transfer of possession.  4. Anything given or considered as a security for the performance of an act; a guarantee; as, mutual interest is the best pledge for the performance of treaties. "That voice, their liveliest pledge of hope." Milton.  5. A promise or agreement by which one binds one's self to do, or to refrain from doing, something; especially, a solemn promise in writing to refrain from using intoxicating liquors or the like; as, to sign the pledge; the mayor had made no pledges.  6. A sentiment to which assent is given by drinking one's health; a toast; a health. Dead pledge. Etym: [A translation of LL. mortuum vadium.] (Law) A mortgage. See Mortgage.  -- Living pledge. Etym: [A translation of LL. vivum vadium.] (Law) The conveyance of an estate to another for money borrowed, to be held by him until the debt is paid out of the rents and profits.  -- To hold in pledge, to keep as security.  -- To put in pledge, to pawn; to give as security.  Syn.  -- See Earnest. 

PLEDGEE:  The one to whom a pledge is given, or to whom property pledged is delivered. 

PLEDGELESS:  Having no pledge.  PLEDGEOR; PLEDGOR Pledge*or", Pledg*or", n. (Law)  One who pledges, or delivers anything in pledge; a pledger; -- opposed to Ant: pledgee.  Note: This word analogically requires the e after g, but the spelling pledgor is perhaps commoner. 

PLEDGER:  One who pledges. 

PLEDGERY:  A pledging; suretyship. [Obs.] 

PLEDGET:  A string of oakum used in calking.  3. (Med.)  A compress, or small flat tent of lint, laid over a wound, ulcer, or the like, to exclude air, retain dressings, or absorb the matter discharged. 

PLEGEPODA:  Same as Infusoria. 

PLEIAD:  One of the Pleiades. 

PLEIADES:  The seven daughters of Atlas and the nymph Pleione, fabled to have been made by Jupiter a constellation in the sky.  2. (Astron.)  A group of small stars in the neck of the constellation Taurus. Job xxxviii. 31.  Note: Alcyone, the brightest of these, a star of the third magnitude, was considered by Mädler the central point around which our universe is revolving, but there is no sufficient evidence of such motion. Only six pleiads are distinctly visible to the naked eye, whence the ancients supposed that a sister had concealed herself out of shame for having loved a mortal, Sisyphus. 

PLEIN:  Plan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PLEIN:  To complain. See Plain. [Obs.] 

PLEIN:  Full; complete. [Obs.] "Plein remission." Chaucer.  -- Plein"ly, adv. 

PLEIOCENE:  See Pliocene. 

PLEIOPHYLLOUS:  Having several leaves; -- used especially when several leaves or leaflets appear where normally there should be only one. 

PLEIOSAURUS:  Same as Pliosaurus. 

PLEISTOCENE:  Of or pertaining to the epoch, or the deposits, following the Tertiary, and immediately preceding man.  -- n.  The Pleistocene epoch, or deposits. 

PLENAL:  Full; complete; as, a plenal view or act. [Obs.] 

PLENARILY:  In a plenary manner. 

PLENARINESS:  Quality or state of being plenary. 

PLENARTY:  The state of a benefice when occupied. Blackstone. 

PLENARY:  Full; entire; complete; absolute; as, a plenary license; plenary authority. A treatise on a subject should be plenary or full. I. Watts. Plenary indulgence (R. C. Ch.), an entire remission of temporal punishment due to, or canonical penance for, all sins.  -- Plenary inspiration. (Theol.) See under Inspiration. 

PLENARY:  Decisive procedure. [Obs.] 

PLENE:  Full; complete; plenary. [Obs.] 

PLENICORN:  A ruminant having solid horns or antlers, as the deer. Brande & C. 

PLENILUNARY:  Of or pertaining to the full moon. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PLENILUNE:  The full moon. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  PLENIPOTENCE; PLENIPOTENCY Ple*nip"o*tence, Ple*nip"o*ten*cy, n.  The quality or state of being plenipotent. [R.] 

PLENIPOTENT:  Possessing full power. [R.] Milton. 

PLENIPOTENTIARY:  A person invested with full power to transact any business; especially, an ambassador or envoy to a foreign court, with full power to negotiate a treaty, or to transact other business. 

PLENIPOTENTIARY:  Containing or conferring full power; invested with full power; as, plenipotentiary license; plenipotentiary ministers. Howell. 

PLENISHING:  Household furniture; stock. [Scot.] 

PLENIST:  One who holds that all space is full of matter. 

PLENITUDINARIAN:  A plenist. 

PLENITUDINARY:  Having plenitude; full; complete; thorough. [Obs.] 

PLENTEVOUS:  Plenteous. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PLENTY:  Full or adequate supply; enough and to spare; sufficiency; specifically, abundant productiveness of the earth; ample supply for human wants; abundance; copiousness. "Plenty of corn and wine." Gen. xxvii. 28. "Promises Britain peace and plenty." Shak. Houses of office stuffed with plentee. Chaucer. The teeming clouds Descend in gladsome plenty o'er the world. Thomson.  Syn.  -- Abundance; exuberance. See Abundance. 

PLENTY:  Plentiful; abundant. [Obs. or Colloq.] If reasons were as plenty as blackberries. Shak. (Folio ed.) Those countries where shrubs are plenty. Goldsmith. 

PLENUM:  That state in which every part of space is supposed to be full of matter; -- opposed to vacuum. G. Francis. 

PLEOCHROIC:  Having the property of pleochroism. 

PLEOCHROISM:  The property possessed by some crystals, of showing different colors when viewed in the direction of different axes. 

PLEOCHROMATIC:  Pleochroic. 

PLEOCHROMATISM:  Pleochroism. 

PLEOCHROOUS:  Pleochroic. 

PLEOMORPHIC:  Pertaining to pleomorphism; as, the pleomorphic character of bacteria. 

PLEOMORPHISM:  The property of crystallizing under two or more distinct fundamental forms, including dimorphism and trimorphism.  2. (Biol.)  The theory that the various genera of bacteria are phases or variations of growth of a number of Protean species, each of which may exhibit, according to undetermined conditions, all or some of the forms characteristic of the different genera and species. 

PLEOMORPHOUS:  Having the property of pleomorphism. 

PLEONASM:  Redundancy of language in speaking or writing; the use of more words than are necessary to express the idea; as, I saw it with my own eyes. 

PLEONAST:  One who is addicted to pleonasm. [R.] C. Reade. 

PLEONASTE:  A black variety of spinel.  PLEONASTIC; PLEONASTICAL Ple`o*nas"tic, Ple`o*nas"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. pléonastique.]  Of or pertaining to pleonasm; of the nature of pleonasm; redundant. 

PLEONASTICALLY:  In a pleonastic manner. 

PLEOPOD:  One of the abdominal legs of a crustacean. See Illust. under Crustacea. 

PLEROME:  The central column of parenchyma in a growing stem or root. 

PLEROPHORY:  Fullness; full persuasion. "A plerophory of assurance." Bp. Hall. 

PLESANCE:  Pleasance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PLESH:  A pool; a plash. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PLESIMORPHISM:  The property possessed by some substances of crystallizing in closely similar forms while unlike in chemical composition. 

PLESIOMORPHOUS:  Nearly alike in form. 

PLESIOSAUR:  One of the Plesiosauria. 

PLESIOSAURIA:  An extinct order of Mesozoic marine reptiles including the genera Plesiosaurus, and allied forms; -- called also Sauropterygia. 

PLESIOSAURIAN:  A plesiosaur. 

PLESIOSAURUS:  A genus of large extinct marine reptiles, having a very long neck, a small head, and paddles for swimming. It lived in the Mesozoic age. 

PLESSIMETER:  See Pleximeter. 

PLETE:  To plead. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 

PLETHORETIC:  Plethoric. [Obs.] Johnson. 

PLETHORIC:  Haeving a full habit of body; characterized by plethora or excess of blood; as, a plethoric constitution; -- used also metaphorically. "Plethoric phrases." Sydney Smith. "Plethoric fullness of thought." De Quincey. 

PLETHORICAL:  Plethoric. [R.] -- Ple*thor"ic*al*ly, adv. Burke. 

PLETHORY:  Plethora. Jer. Taylor.  PLETHRON; PLETHRUM Pleth"ron, Pleth"rum, n.; pl. Plethra. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)  A long measure of 100 Greek, or 101 English, feet; also, a square measure of 10,000 Greek feet. 

PLETHYSMOGRAPH:  An instrument for determining and registering the variations in the size or volume of a limb, as the arm or leg, and hence the variations in the amount of blood in the limb.  -- Pleth`ys*mo*graph"ic, a. 

PLETHYSMOGRAPHY:  The study, by means of the plethysmograph, of the variations in size of a limb, and hence of its blood supply. 

PLEURA:  pl. of Pleuron. 

PLEURA:  Same as Pleuron. 

PLEURAL:  Of or pertaining to the pleura or pleuræ, or to the sides of the thorax. 

PLEURALGIA:  Pain in the side or region of the ribs. 

PLEURAPOPHYSIS:  One of the ventral processes of a vertebra, or the dorsal element in each half of a hemal arch, forming, or corresponding to, a vertebral rib.  -- Pleu*rap`o*phys"i*al, a. Owen. 

PLEURENCHYMA:  A tissue consisting of long and slender tubular cells, of which wood is mainly composed. 

PLEURIC:  Pleural. 

PLEURISY:  An inflammation of the pleura, usually accompanied with fever, pain, difficult respiration, and cough, and with exudation into the pleural cavity. Pleurisy root. (Bot.) (a) The large tuberous root of a kind of milkweed (Asclepias tuberosa) which is used as a remedy for pleuritic and other diseases. (b) The plant itself, which has deep orange-colored flowers; -- called also butterfly weed. 

PLEURITE:  Same as Pleuron.  PLEURITIC; PLEURITICAL Pleu*rit"ic, Pleu*rit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. pleuriticus, Gr. pleurétique.] (Med.) (a) Of or pertaining to pleurisy; as, pleuritic symptoms. (b) Suffering from pleurisy. 

PLEURITIS:  Pleurisy.  PLEURO- Pleu"ro-. Etym: [See Pleura.]  A combining form denoting relation to a side; specif., connection with, or situation in or near, the pleura; as, pleuroperitoneum. 

PLEUROBRACHIA:  A genus of ctenophores having an ovate body and two long plumose tentacles. 

PLEUROBRANCH:  Any one of the gills of a crustacean that is attached to the side of the thorax. 

PLEUROBRANCHIA:  Same as Pleurobranch. 

PLEUROCARP:  Any pleurocarpic moss.  PLEUROCARPIC; PLEUROCARPOUS Pleu`ro*car"pic, Pleu`ro*car"pous, a. (Bot.)  Side-fruited; -- said of those true mosses in which the pedicels or the capsules are from lateral archegonia; -- opposed to Ant: acrocarpous. 

PLEUROCENTRUM:  One of the lateral elements in the centra of the vertebræ in some fossil batrachians. 

PLEURODERES:  A group of fresh-water turtles in which the neck can not be retracted, but is bent to one side, for protection. The matamata is an example. 

PLEURODONT:  Having the teeth consolidated with the inner edge of the jaw, as in some lizards. 

PLEURODONT:  Any lizard having pleurodont teeth. 

PLEURODYNIA:  A painful affection of the side, simulating pleurisy, usually due to rheumatism. 

PLEURONECTOID:  Pertaining to the Pleuronectidæ, or Flounder family. 

PLEUROPERICARDIAL:  Of or pertaining to the pleura and pericardium. 

PLEUROPERIPNEUMONY:  Pleuropneumonia. 

PLEUROPERITONEAL:  Of or pertaining to the pleural and peritoneal membranes or cavities, or to the pleuroperitoneum. 

PLEUROPERITONEUM:  The pleural and peritoneal membranes, or the membrane lining the body cavity and covering the surface of the inclosed viscera; the peritoneum; -- used especially in the case of those animals in which the body cavity is not divided.  Note: Peritoneum is now often used in the sense of pleuroperitoneum, the pleuræ being regarded as a part of the peritoneum, when the body cavity is undivided. 

PLEUROPNEUMONIA:  Inflammation of the pleura and lungs; a combination of pleurisy and pneumonia, esp. a kind of contagions and fatal lung plague of cattle. 

PLEUROPTERA:  A group of Isectivora, including the colugo. 

PLEUROSIGMA:  A genus of diatoms of elongated elliptical shape, but having the sides slightly curved in the form of a letter S. Pleurosigma angulatum has very fine striations, and is a favorite object for testing the high powers of microscopes. 

PLEUROSTEON:  The antero-lateral piece which articulates the sternum of birds. 

PLEUROTHOTONUS:  A species of tetanus, in which the body is curved laterally. Quain. Dunglison. 

PLEUROTOMA:  Any marine gastropod belonging to Pleurotoma, and ether allied genera of the family Pleurotmidæ. The species are very numerous, especially in tropical seas. The outer lip has usually a posterior notch or slit. 

PLEVIN:  A warrant or assurance. [Obs.] 

PLEXIFORM:  Like network; complicated. Quincy. 

PLEXIMETER:  A small, hard, elastic plate, as of ivory, bone, or rubber, placed in contact with body to receive the blow, in examination by mediate percussion. [Written also plexometer.] 

PLEXURE:  The act or process of weaving together, or interweaving; that which is woven together. H. Brooke. 

PLEXUS:  A network of vessels, nerves, or fibers.  2. (Math.)  The system of equations required for the complete expression of the relations which exist between a set of quantities. Brande & C. 

PLEY:  See Play. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PLEY:  Full See Plein. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PLEYT:  An old term for a river boat. 

PLIABILITY:  The quality or state of being pliable; flexibility; as, pliability of disposition. "Pliability of movement." Sir W. Scott. 

PLIANCY:  The quality or state of being pliant in sense; as, the pliancy of a rod. "Avaunt all specious pliancy of mind." Wordsworth. 

PLICA:  A disease of the hair (Plica polonica), in which it becomes twisted and matted together. The disease is of Polish origin, and is hence called also Polish plait. Dunglison.  2. (Bot.)  A diseased state in plants in which there is an excessive development of small entangled twigs, instead of ordinary branches.  3. (Zoöl.)  The bend of the wing of a bird.  PLICATE; PLICATED Pli"cate, Pli"ca*ted, a. Etym: [L. plicatus, p. p. of plicare to fold.]  Plaited; folded like a fan; as, a plicate leaf.  -- Pli"cate*ly, adv. 

PLICATION:  A folding or fold; a plait. Richardson. 

PLICATURE:  A fold; a doubling; a plication. Dr. H. More. 

PLICIDENTINE:  A form of dentine which shows sinuous lines of structure in a transverse section of the tooth. 

PLIED:  imp. & p. p. of Ply. 

PLIERS:  A kind of small pinchers with long jaws, -- used for bending or cutting metal rods or wire, for handling small objects such as the parts of a watch, etc. 

PLIFORM:  In the form of a ply, fold, or doubling. [Obs.] Pennant. 

PLIGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Plight, to pledge. Chaucer. 

PLIGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Pluck. Chaucer. 

PLIGHT:  To weave; to braid; to fold; to plait.[Obs.] "To sew and plight." Chaucer. A plighted garment of divers colors. Milton. 

PLIGHT:  A network; a plait; a fold; rarely a garment. [Obs.] "Many a folded plight." Spenser. 

PLIGHT:  Condition; state; -- risk, or exposure to danger, often being implied; as, a luckless plight. "Your plight is pitied." Shak. To bring our craft all in another plight Chaucer. 

PLIGHTER:  One who, or that which, plights. 

PLIM:  To swell, as grain or wood with water. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.  PLIMSOLL'S MARK Plim"soll's mark`. (Naut.)  A mark conspicuously painted on the port side of all British sea-going merchant vessels, to indicate the limit of submergence allowed by law; -- so called from Samuel Plimsoll, by whose efforts the act of Parliament to prevent overloading was procured. 

PLINTH:  (Arch.) In classical architecture, a vertically faced member immediately below the circular base of a column; also, the lowest member of a pedestal; hence, in general, the lowest member of a base; a sub-base; a block upon which the moldings of an architrave or trim are stopped at the bottom. See Illust. of Column. 

PLIOCENE:  Of, pertaining to, or characterizing, the most recent division of the Tertiary age. 

PLIOCENE:  The Pliocene period or deposits. 

PLIOHIPPUS:  An extinct genus of horses from the Pliocene deposits. Each foot had a single toe (or hoof), as in the common horse. 

PLIOSAURUS:  An extinct genus of marine reptiles allied to Plesiosaurus, but having a much shorter neck. 

PLITT:  An instrument of punishment or torture resembling the knout, used in Russia. 

PLOC:  A mixture of hair and tar for covering the bottom of a ship. 

PLOCE:  A figure in which a word is separated or repeated by way of emphasis, so as not only to signify the individual thing denoted by it, but also its peculiar attribute or quality; as, "His wife's a wife indeed." Bailey. 

PLOD:  To walk on slowly or heavily. The ploughman homeward plods his weary way. Gray. 

PLODDER:  One who plods; a drudge. 

PLODDING:  Progressing in a slow, toilsome manner; characterized by laborious diligence; as, a plodding peddler; a plodding student; a man of plodding habits. --Plod"ding*ly, adv. 

PLONGE:  To cleanse, as open drains which are entered by the tide, by stirring up the sediment when the tide ebbs. 

PLONGEE:  A slope or sloping toward the front; as, the plongée of a parapet; the plongée of a shell in its course. [Sometimes written plonge.] 

PLOP:  To fall, drop, or move in any way, with a sudden splash or slap, as on the surface of water.  The body plopped up, turning on its side. Kipling. 

PLOP:  Act of plopping; the sound made in plopping. 

PLOT:  A plan or draught of a field, farm, estate, etc., drawn to a scale. 

PLOT:  To make a plot, map, pr plan, of; to mark the position of on a plan; to delineate. This treatise plotteth down Cornwall as it now standeth. Carew. 

PLOT:  To plan; to scheme; to devise; to contrive secretly. "Plotting an unprofitable crime." Dryden. "Plotting now the fall of others." Milton 

PLOTFUL:  Abounding with plots. 

PLOTINIAN:  Of pertaining to the Plotinists or their doctrines. 

PLOTINIST:  A disciple of Plotinus, a celebrated Platonic philosopher of the third century, who taught that the human soul emanates from the divine Being, to whom it reunited at death.  PLOT-PROOF Plot"-proof`, a.  Secure against harm by plots. Shak. 

PLOTTER:  One who plots or schemes; a contriver; a conspirator; a schemer. Dryden. 

PLOUGH:  See Plow. 

PLOUTER:  To wade or move about with splashing; to dabble; also, to potter; trifle; idle. [Scot. & Dial. Eng.]  I did not want to plowter about any more. Kipling. 

PLOUTER:  Act of ploutering; floundering; act or sound of splashing. [Scot. & Dial.Eng.] 

PLOVER:  Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds belonging to the family Charadridæ, and especially those belonging to the subfamily Charadrinsæ. They are prized as game birds.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any grallatorial bird allied to, or resembling, the true plovers, as the crab plover (Dromas ardeola); the American upland, plover (Bartramia longicauda); and other species of sandpipers.  Note: Among the more important species are the blackbellied, or blackbreasted, plover (Charadrius squatarola) of America and Europe; -- called also gray plover, bull-head plover, Swiss plover, sea plover, and oxeye; the golden plover (see under Golden); the ring or ringed plover (Ægialitis hiaticula). See Ringneck. The piping plover (Ægialitis meloda); Wilson's plover (Æ. Wilsonia); the mountain plover (Æ. montana); and the semipalmated plover (Æ. semipalmata), are all small American species. Bastard plover (Zoöl.), the lapwing.  -- Long-legged, or yellow-legged, plover. See Tattler.  -- Plover's page, the dunlin. [Prov. Eng.] -- Rock plover, or Stone plover, the black-bellied plover. [Prov. Eng.] -- Whistling plover. (a) The golden plover. (b) The black-bellied plover.  PLOW; PLOUGH Plow, Plough (plou), n. Etym: [OE. plouh, plou, AS. ploh; akin to D. ploeg, G. pflug, OHG. pfluog, pfluoh, Icel. plogr, Sw. plog, Dan. ploug, plov, Russ. plug', Lith. plugas.]  1. A well-known implement, drawn by horses, mules, oxen, or other power, for turning up the soil to prepare it for bearing crops; also used to furrow or break up the soil for other purposes; as, the subsoil plow; the draining plow. Where fern succeeds ungrateful to the plow. Dryden.  2. Fig.: Agriculture; husbandry. Johnson.  3. A carucate of land; a plowland. [Obs.] [Eng.] Johan, mine eldest son, shall have plowes five. Tale of Gamelyn.  4. A joiner's plane for making grooves; a grooving plane.  5. (Bookbinding)  An implement for trimming or shaving off the edges of books.  6. (Astron.)  Same as Charles's Wain. Ice plow, a plow used for cutting ice on rivers, ponds, etc., into cakes suitable for storing. [U. S.] -- Mackerel plow. See under Mackerel.  -- Plow alms, a penny formerly paid by every plowland to the church. Cowell.  -- Plow beam, that part of the frame of a plow to which the draught is applied. See Beam, n., 9.  -- Plow Monday, the Monday after Twelth Day, or the end of Christmas holidays.  -- Plow staff. (a) A kind of long-handled spade or paddle for cleaning the plowshare; a paddle staff. (b) A plow handle.  -- Snow plow, a structure, usually  PLOW; PLOUGH Plow, Plough, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Plowed (ploud) or Ploughed; p. pr. & vb. n. Plowing or Ploughing.]  1. To turn up, break up, or trench, with a plow; to till with, or as with, a plow; as, to plow the ground; to plow a field.  2. To furrow; to make furrows, grooves, or ridges in; to run through, as in sailing. Let patient Octavia plow thy visage up With her prepared nails. Shak. With speed we plow the watery way. Pope.  3. (Bookbinding)  To trim, or shave off the edges of, as a book or paper, with a plow. See Plow, n., 5.  4. (Joinery)  To cut a groove in, as in a plank, or the edge of a board; especially, a rectangular groove to receive the end of a shelf or tread, the edge of a panel, a tongue, etc. To plow in, to cover by plowing; as, to plow in wheat.  -- To plow up, to turn out of the ground by plowing.plow ahead, to continue in spite of obstacles or resistence by others.  Note: Often used in a bad sense, meaning to continue obstinately in spite of the contrary advice of others. plow through, to execute a difficult or laborious task steadily, esp. one containing many parts; as, he plowed through the stack of correspondence until all had been answered.  PLOW; PLOUGH Plow, Plough (plou), v. i.  To labor with, or as with, a plow; to till or turn up the soil with a plow; to till or turn up the soil with a plow; to prepare the soil or bed for anything. Shak. Doth the plowman plow all day to sow Isa. xxviii. 24.  PLOWABLE; PLOUGHABLE Plow"a*ble, Plough"a*ble, a.  Capable of being plowed; arable.  PLOWBOTE; PLOUGHBOTE Plow"bote`, Plough"bote`, n. (Eng. Law)  Wood or timber allowed to a tenant for the repair of instruments of husbandry. See Bote.  PLOWBOY; PLOUGHBOY Plow"boy`, Plough"boy`, n.  A boy that drives or guides a team in plowing; a young rustic.  PLOWER; PLOUGHER Plow"er, Plough"er, n.  One who plows; a plowman; a cultivator.  PLOWFOOT; PLOUGHFOOT Plow"foot`, Plough"foot`, n.  An adjustable staff formerly attached to the plow beam to determine the depth of the furrow. Piers Plowman.  PLOWGANG; PLOUGHGANG Plow"gang`, Plough"gang`, n.  Same as Plowgate.  PLOWGATE; PLOUGHGATE Plow"gate`, Plough"gate`, n.  The Scotch equivalent of the English word plowland. Not having one plowgate of land. Sir W. Scott.  PLOWHEAD; PLOUGHHEAD Plow"head`, Plough"head`, n.  The clevis or draught iron of a plow.  PLOWLAND; PLOUGLAND Plow"land`, Ploug"land`, n.  1. Land that is plowed, or suitable for tillage.  2. (O. Eng. Law)  the quantity of land allotted for the work of one plow; a hide.  PLOWMAN; PLOUGHMAN Plow"man, Plough"man, n.; pl. -men (.  1. One who plows, or who holds and guides a plow; hence, a husbandman. Chaucer. Macaulay.  2. A rustic; a countryman; a field laborer. Plowman's spikenard (Bot.), a European composite weed (Conyza squarrosa), having fragrant roots. Dr. Prior.  PLOWPOINT; PLOUGHPOINT Plow"point`, Plough"point`, n.  A detachable share at the extreme front end of the plow body.  PLOWSHARE; PLOUGHSHARE Plow"share`, Plough"share", n.  The share of a plow, or that part which cuts the slice of earth or sod at the bottom of the furrow. Plowshare bone (Anat.), the pygostyle.  PLOWTAIL; PLOUGHTAIL Plow"tail`, Plough"tail`, n.  The hind part or handle of a plow.  PLOWWRIGHT; PLOUGHWRIGHT Plow"wright`, Plough"wright`, n.  One who makes or repairs plows. 

PLOY:  Sport; frolic. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

PLOY:  To form a column from a line of troops on some designated subdivision; -- the opposite of deploy. Wilhelm. 

PLOYMENT:  The act or movement of forming a column from a line of troops on some designated subdivision; -- the opposite of deployment. 

PLUCK:  To reject at an examination for degrees. C. Bronté. To pluck away, to pull away, or to separate by pulling; to tear away.  -- To pluck down, to pull down; to demolish; to reduce to a lower state.  -- to pluck off, to pull or tear off; as, to pluck off the skin.  -- to pluck up. (a) To tear up by the roots or from the foundation; to eradicate; to exterminate; to destroy; as, to pluck up a plant; to pluk up a nation. Jer. xii. 17. (b) To gather up; to summon; as, to pluck up courage. 

PLUCK:  To make a motion of pulling or twitching; -- usually with at; as, to pluck at one's gown. 

PLUCK:  The heart, liver, and lights of an animal.  3. Spirit; courage; indomitable resolution; fortitude. Decay of English spirit, decay of manly pluck. Thackeray.  4. The act of plucking, or the state of being plucked, at college. See Pluck, v. t., 4.  5. (Zoöl.)  The lyrie. [Prov. Eng.] 

PLUCKED:  Having courage and spirit. [R.] 

PLUCKILY:  In a plucky manner. 

PLUCKINESS:  The quality or state of being plucky. 

PLUCKLESS:  Without pluck; timid; faint-hearted. 

PLUCKY:  Having pluck or courage; characterized by pluck; displaying pluck; courageous; spirited; as, a plucky race. If you're plucky, and not over subject to fright. Barham. 

PLUFF:  To throw out, as smoke, dust, etc., in puffs. [Scot.] 

PLUG:  A block of wood let into a wall, to afford a hold for nails. Fire plug, a street hydrant to which hose may be attached. [U. S.] -- Hawse plug (Naut.), a plug to stop a hawse hole.  -- Plug and feather. (Stone Working) See Feather, n., 7.  -- Plug centerbit, a centerbit ending in a small cylinder instead of a point, so as to follow and enlarge a hole previously made, or to form a counterbore around it.  -- Plug rod (Steam Eng.) , a rod attached to the beam for working the valves, as in the Cornish engine.  -- Plug valve (Mech.), a tapering valve, which turns in a case like the plug of a faucet. 

PLUG:  To stop with a plug; to make tight by stopping a hole.  PLUG BOARD Plug board. (Elec.)  A switchboard in which connections are made by means of plugs. 

PLUGGER:  One who, or that which, plugs. 

PLUM:  The edible drupaceous fruit of the Prunus domestica, and of several other species of Prunus; also, the tree itself, usually called plum tree. The bullace, the damson, and the numerous varieties of plum, of our gardens, although growing into thornless trees, are believed to be varieties of the blackthorn, produced by long cultivation. G. Bentham. are in bold format, like collocations.  Note: Two or three hundred varieties of plums derived from the Prunus domestica are described; among them the greengage, the Orleans, the purple gage, or Reine Claude Violette, and the German prune, are some of the best known.  Note: Among the true plums are; Beach plum, the Prunus maritima, and its crimson or purple globular drupes, -- Bullace plum. See Bullace.  -- Chickasaw plum, the American Prunus Chicasa, and its round red drupes.  -- Orleans plum, a dark reddish purple plum of medium size, much grown in England for sale in the markets.  -- Wild plum of America, Prunus Americana, with red or yellow fruit, the original of the Iowa plum and several other varieties. Among plants called plum, but of other genera than Prunus, are; Australian plum, Cargillia arborea and C. australis, of the same family with the persimmon.  -- Blood plum, the West African Hæmatostaphes Barteri.  -- Cocoa plum, the Spanish nectarine. See under Nectarine.  -- Date plum. See under Date.  -- Gingerbread plum, the West African Parinarium macrophyllum.  -- Gopher plum, the Ogeechee lime.  -- Gray plum, Guinea plum. See under Guinea.  -- Indian plum, several species of Flacourtia.  2. A grape dried in the sun; a raisin.  3. A handsome fortune or property; formerly, in cant language, the sum of £100,000 sterling; also, the person possessing it. Plum bird, Plum budder (Zoöl.), the European bullfinch.  -- Plum gouger (Zoöl.), a weevil, or curculio (Coccotorus scutellaris), which destroys plums. It makes round holes in the pulp, for the reception of its eggs. The larva bores into the stone and eats the kernel.  -- Plum weevil (Zoöl.), an American weevil which is very destructive to plums, nectarines cherries, and many other stone fruits. It lays its eggs in crescent-shaped incisions made with its jaws. The larva lives upon the pulp around the stone. Called also turk, and plum curculio. See Illust. under Curculio. 

PLUMA:  A feather. 

PLUMAGE:  The entire clothing of a bird.  Note: It consist of the contour feathers, or the ordinary feathers covering the head, neck, and body; the tail feathers, with their upper and lower coverts; the wing feathers, including primaries, secondaries, and tertiaries, with their coverts; and the down which lies beneath the contour feathers. See Illust. under Bird. 

PLUMASSARY:  A plume or collection of ornamental feathers. 

PLUMASSIER:  One who prepares or deals in ornamental plumes or feathers. 

PLUMB:  A little mass or weight of lead, or the like, attached to a line, and used by builders, etc., to indicate a vertical direction; a plummet; a plumb bob. See Plumb line, below. Plumb bob. See Bob, 4.  -- Plumb joint, in sheet-metal work, a lap joint, fastened by solder.  -- Plumb level. See under Level.  -- Plumb line. (a) The cord by which a plumb bob is suspended; a plummet. (b) A line directed to the center of gravity of the earth.  -- Plumb rule, a narrow board with a plumb line, used by builders and carpenters. 

PLUMB:  Perpendicular; vertical; conforming the direction of a line attached to a plumb; as, the wall is plumb. 

PLUMB:  In a plumb direction; perpendicularly. "Plumb down he falls." Milton. 

PLUMBAGE:  Leadwork [R.] 

PLUMBAGIN:  A crystalline substance said to be found in the root of a certain plant of the Leadwort (Plumbago) family. 

PLUMBAGINEOUS:  Pertaining to natural order (Plumbagineæ) of gamopetalous herbs, of which plumbago is the type. The order includes also the marsh rosemary, the thrift, and a few other genera. 

PLUMBAGINOUS:  Resembling plumbago; consisting of, or containing, plumbago; as, a plumbaginous slate. 

PLUMBAGO:  Same as Graphite.  2. (Bot.)  A genus of herbaceous plants with pretty salver-shaped corollas, usually blue or violet; leadwort.  PLUMBEAN; PLUMBEOUS Plum"be*an, Plum"be*ous, a. Etym: [L. plumbeus, from plumbum the metal lead.]  1. Consisting of, or resembling, lead. J. Ellis.  2. Dull; heavy; stupid. [R.] J. P. Smith. 

PLUMBER:  One who works in lead; esp., one who furnishes, fits, and repairs lead, iron, or glass pipes, and other apparatus for the conveyance of water, gas, or drainage in buildings.  PLUMBER BLOCK Plumb"er block`.  A pillow block. 

PLUMBIC:  Of, pertaining to, resembling, or containing, lead; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with plumbous compounds; as, plumbic oxide. 

PLUMBIFEROUS:  Producing or containing lead. Kirwan. 

PLUMBISM:  A diseased condition, produced by the absorption of lead, common among workers in this metal or in its compounds, as among painters, typesetters, etc. It is characterized by various symptoms, as lead colic, lead line, and wrist drop. See under Colic, Lead, and Wrist. 

PLUMBOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, lead; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which it has a lower valence as contrasted with plumbic compounds. 

PLUMBUM:  The technical name of lead. See Lead. 

PLUMCOT:  A cross between the plum and apricot. 

PLUME:  An ornamental tuft of feathers.  3. A feather, or group of feathers, worn as an ornament; a waving ornament of hair, or other material resembling feathers. His high plume, that nodded o'er his head. Dryden.  4. A token of honor or prowess; that on which one prides himself; a prize or reward. "Ambitious to win from me some plume." Milton.  5. (Bot.)  A large and flexible panicle of inflorescence resembling a feather, such as is seen in certain large ornamental grasses. Plume bird (Zoöl.), any bird that yields ornamental plumes, especially the species of Epimarchus from New Guinea, and some of the herons and egrets, as the white heron of Florida (Ardea candidissima).  -- Plume grass. (Bot) (a) A kind of grass (Erianthus saccharoides) with the spikelets arranged in great silky plumes, growing in swamps in the Southern United States. (b) The still finer E. Ravennæ from the Mediterranean region. The name is sometimes extended to the whole genus.  -- Plume moth (Zoöl.), any one of numerous small, slender moths, belonging to the family Pterophoridæ. Most of them have the wings deeply divided into two or more plumelike lobes. Some species are injurious to the grapevine.  -- Plume nutmeg (Bot.), an aromatic Australian tree (Atherosperma moschata), whose numerous carpels are tipped with long plumose persistent styles. 

PLUMELESS:  Without plumes. 

PLUMELET:  A small plume. When rosy plumelets tuft the larch. Tennyson. 

PLUMERY:  Plumes, collectively or in general; plumage. [R.] Southey. 

PLUMICORN:  An ear tuft of feathers, as in the horned owls. 

PLUMIGEROUS:  Feathered; having feathers. Bailey 

PLUMILIFORM:  Having the of a plume or feather. [R.] 

PLUMIPED:  Having feet covered with feathers.  -- n.  A plumiped bird. 

PLUMMING:  The operation of finding, by means of a mine dial, the place where to sink an air shaft, or to bring an adit to the work, or to find which way the lode inclines. 

PLUMMY:  Of the nature of a plum; desirable; profitable; advantageous. [Colloq.] "For the sake of getting something plummy." G. Eliot.  PLUMOSE; PLUMOUS Plu*mose", Plu"mous, a. Etym: [L. plumosus, fr. pluma feather: cf. F. plumeux.]  1. Having feathers or plumes.  2. Having hairs, or other párts, arranged along an axis like a feather; feathery; plumelike; as, a plumose leaf; plumose tentacles. 

PLUMOSITE:  Same as Jamesonite. 

PLUMOSITY:  The quality or state of being plumose. 

PLUMP:  Well rounded or filled out; full; fleshy; fat; as, a plump baby; plump cheeks. Shak. The god of wine did his plump clusters bring. T. Carew. 

PLUMP:  A knot; a cluster; a group; a crowd; a flock; as, a plump of trees, fowls, or spears. [Obs.] To visit islands and the plumps of men. Chapman. 

PLUMP:  Directly; suddenly; perpendicularly. "Fall plump." Beau. & Fl. 

PLUMPER:  A vote given to one candidate only, when two or more are to be elected, thus giving him the advantage over the others. A person who gives his vote thus is said to plump, or to plump his vote.  3. A voter who plumps his vote. [Eng.]  4. A downright, unqualified lie. [Colloq. or Low] 

PLUMPLY:  Fully; roundly; plainly; without reserve. [Colloq.] 

PLUMPNESS:  The quality or state of being plump. 

PLUMPY:  Plump; fat; sleek. "Plumpy Bacchus." Shak. 

PLUMULA:  A plumule.  2. (Zoöl.)  A down feather. 

PLUMULACEOUS:  Downy; bearing down. 

PLUMULAR:  Relating to a plumule. 

PLUMULARIA:  Any hydroid belonging to Plumularia and other genera of the family Plumularidæ. They generally grow in plumelike forms. 

PLUMULARIAN:  Any Plumularia. Also used adjectively. 

PLUMULE:  The first bud, or gemmule, of a young plant; the bud, or growing point, of the embryo, above the cotyledons. See Illust. of Radicle. Gray.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) A down feather. (b) The aftershaft of a feather. See Illust. under Feather. (c) One of the featherlike scales of certain male butterflies. 

PLUMULOSE:  Having hairs branching out laterally, like the parts of a feather. 

PLUMY:  Covered or adorned with plumes, or as with plumes; feathery. "His plumy crest." Addison. "The plumy trees." J. S. Blackie. 

PLUNDERAGE:  The embezzlement of goods on shipboard. Wharton. 

PLUNDERER:  One who plunders or pillages. 

PLUNGER:  A boiler in which clay is beaten by a wheel to a creamy consistence. Knight.  5. (Gun.)  The firing pin of a breechloader. Plunger bucket, a piston, without a valve, in a pump.  -- Plunger pole, the pump rod of a pumping engine.  -- Plunger pump, a pump, as for water, having a plunger, instead of a piston, to act upon the water. It may be single-acting or double- acting 

PLUNKET:  A kind of blue color; also, anciently, a kind of cloth, generally blue. 

PLUPERFECT:  More than perfect; past perfect; -- said of the tense which denotes that an action or event was completed at or before the time of another past action or event.  -- n.  The pluperfect tense; also, a verb in the pluperfect tense. 

PLURAL:  Relating to, or containing, more than one; designating two or more; as, a plural word. Plural faith, which is too much by one. Shak. Plural number (Gram.), the number which designates more than one. See Number, n., 8. 

PLURAL:  The plural number; that form of a word which expresses or denotes more than one; a word in the plural form. 

PLURALISM:  The state of a pluralist; the holding of more than one ecclesiastical living at a time. [Eng.] 

PLURALIST:  A clerk or clergyman who holds more than one ecclesiastical benefice. [Eng.] Of the parochial clergy, a large proportion were pluralists. Macaulay. 

PLURALITY:  See Plurality of benefices, below. Plurality of benefices (Eccl.), the possession by one clergyman of more than one benefice or living. Each benefice thus held is called a plurality. [Eng.] 

PLURALIZATION:  The act of pluralizing. H. Spencer. 

PLURALIZE:  To hold more than one benefice at the same time. [Eng.] 

PLURALIZER:  A pluralist. [R.] 

PLURALLY:  In a plural manner or sense.  PLURI- Plu"ri-. Etym: [See Plus.]  A combining form from L. plus, pluris, more, many; as pluriliteral. 

PLURIES:  A writ issued in the third place, after two former writs have been disregarded. Mozley & W. 

PLURIFARIOUS:  Of many kinds or fashions; multifarious. 

PLURIFOLIOLATE:  Having several or many leaflets. 

PLURILITERAL:  Consisting of more letters than three.  -- n.  A pluriliteral word. 

PLURILOCULAR:  Having several cells or loculi; specifically (Bot.),  having several divisions containing seeds; as, the lemon and the orange are plurilocular fruits. Plurilocular sporangia (Bot.), many-celled sporangia, each cell containing a single spore, as in many algæ. 

PLURIPAROUS:  Producing several young at a birth; as, a pluriparous animal. 

PLURIPARTITE:  Deeply divided into several portions. 

PLURIPRESENCE:  Presence in more places than one. [R.] Johnson. 

PLURISY:  Superabundance; excess; plethora. [Obs.] Shak. 

PLUS:  More, required to be added; positive, as distinguished from negative; -- opposed to Ant: minus.  2. Hence, in a literary sense, additional; real; actual. Success goes invariably with a certain plus or positive power. Emerson. Plus sign (Math.), the sign (+) which denotes addition, or a positive quantity. 

PLUSH:  A textile fabric with a nap or shag on one side, longer and softer than the nap of velvet. Cowper. 

PLUSHY:  Like plush; soft and shaggy. H. Kingsley. 

PLUTARCHY:  Plutocracy; the rule of wealth. [R.] 

PLUTEAL:  Of or pertaining to a pluteus. 

PLUTEUS:  The free-swimming larva of sea urchins and ophiurans, having several long stiff processes inclosing calcareous rods. 

PLUTO:  The son of Saturn and Rhea, brother of Jupiter and Neptune; the dark and gloomy god of the Lower World. Pluto monkey (Zoöl.), a long- tailed African monkey (Cercopithecus pluto), having side whiskers. The general color is black, more or less grizzled; the frontal band is white. 

PLUTOCRACY:  A form of government in which the supreme power is lodged in the hands of the wealthy classes; government by the rich; also, a controlling or influential class of rich men. 

PLUTOCRAT:  One whose wealth gives him power or influence; one of the plutocracy. 

PLUTOCRATIC:  Of or pertaining to plutocracy; as, plutocratic ideas. Bagehot. 

PLUTOLOGY:  The science which treats of wealth. 

PLUTONIAN:  Plutonic. Poe. 

PLUTONIAN:  A Plutonist. 

PLUTONISM:  The theory, early advanced in geology, that the successive rocks of the earth''s crust were formed by igneous fusion; -- opposed to the Neptunian theory. 

PLUTONIST:  One who adopts the geological theory of igneous fusion; a Plutonian. See Plutonism. 

PLUTUS:  The son of Jason and Ceres, and the god of wealth. He was represented as bearing a cornucopia, and as blind, because his gifts were bestowed without discrimination of merit. 

PLUVIAL:  Produced by the action of rain. 

PLUVIAL:  A priest's cope. 

PLUVIAMETER:  See Pluviometer. 

PLUVIAMETRICAL:  See Pluviometrical. 

PLUVIAN:  The crocodile bird. 

PLUVIOGRAPH:  A self-registering rain gauge. 

PLUVIOGRAPHY:  The branch of meteorology treating of the automatic registration of the precipitation of rain, snow, etc.; also, the graphic presentation of precipitation data. 

PLUVIOMETER:  An instrument for ascertaining the amount of rainfall at any place in a given time; a rain gauge. 

PLUVIOMETRICAL:  Of or pertaining to a pluviometer; determined by a pluviometer. 

PLUVIOMETRY:  That department of meteorology that treats of the measurement of the precipitation of rain, snow, etc. 

PLUVIOSCOPE:  A rain gauge. 

PLUVIOSE:  The fifth month of the French republican calendar adopted in 1793. It began January 20, and ended February 18. See Vendémiaire. 

PLUVIOUS:  Abounding in rain; rainy; pluvial. Sir T. Browne. 

PLY:  To work to windward; to beat. 

PLYER:  One who, or that which, plies; specifically: (a) pl.  A kind of balance used in raising and letting down a drawbridge. It consists of timbers joined in the form of a St. Andrew's cross. (b) pl.  See Pliers. 

PLYGHT:  See Plight. [Obs.] Chaucer.  PLYMOUTH BRETHREN Plym"outh Breth"ren.  The members of a religious sect which first appeared at Plymouth, England, about 1830. They protest against sectarianism, and reject all official ministry or clergy. Also called Brethren, Christian Brethren, Plymouthists, etc. The Darbyites are a division of the Brethren. 

PNEOMETER:  A spirometer.  PNEUMATIC; PNEUMATICAL Pneu*mat"ic, Pneu*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. pneumaticus, Gr. fnehan: cf. F. pneumatique. Cf. Pneumonia.]  1. Consisting of, or resembling, air; having the properties of an elastic fluid; gaseous; opposed to dense or solid. The pneumatical substance being, in some bodies, the native spirit of the body. Bacon.  2. Of or pertaining to air, or to elastic fluids or their properties; pertaining to pneumatics; as, pneumatic experiments. "Pneumatical discoveries." Stewart.  3. Moved or worked by pressure or flow of air; as, a pneumatic instrument; a pneumatic engine.  4. (Biol.)  Fitted to contain air; Having cavities filled with air; as, pneumatic cells; pneumatic bones. Pneumatic action, or Pneumatic lever (Mus.), a contrivance for overcoming the resistance of the keys and other movable parts in an organ, by causing compressed air from the wind chest to move them.  -- Pneumatic dispatch, a system of tubes, leading to various points, through which letters, packages, etc., are sent, by the flow and pressure of air.  -- Pneumatic elevator, a hoisting machine worked by compressed air.  -- Pneumatic pile, a tubular pile or cylinder of large diameter sunk by atmospheric pressure.  -- Pneumatic pump, an air-exhausting or forcing pump.  -- Pneumatic railway. See Atmospheric railway, under Atmospheric.  -- Pneumatic syringe, a stout tube closed at one end, and provided with a piston, for showing that the heat produced by compressing a gas will ignite substances.  -- Pneumatic trough, a trough, generally made of wood or sheet metal, having a perforated shelf, and used, when filled with water or mercury, for collecting gases in chemical operations.  -- Pneumatic tube. See Pneumatic dispatch, above. 

PNEUMATICITY:  The state of being pneumatic, or of having a cavity or cavities filled with air; as, the pneumaticity of the bones of birds. 

PNEUMATICS:  The scientific study or knowledge of spiritual beings and their relations to God, angels, and men.  PNEUMATO- Pneu"ma*to-.  A combining form from Gr. wind, air, breath, respiration; as, pneumatograph, pneumatology. 

PNEUMATOCELE:  A distention of the scrotum by air; also, hernia of the lungs. 

PNEUMATOCYST:  A cyst or sac of a siphonophore, containing air, and serving as a float, as in Physalia. 

PNEUMATOGARM:  A tracing of the respiratory movements, obtained by a pneumatograph or stethograph. 

PNEUMATOGRAPH:  An instrument for recording the movements of the thorax or chest wall during respiration; -- also called stethograph. 

PNEUMATOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to pneumatology. 

PNEUMATOLOGIST:  One versed in pneumatology. 

PNEUMATOLOGY:  The science of spiritual being or phenomena of any description. 

PNEUMATOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the amount of force exerted by the lungs in respiration. 

PNEUMATOMETRY:  See Spirometry. 

PNEUMATOPHORE:  One of the Pneumonophora. 

PNEUMATOTHORAX:  See Pneumothorax.  PNEUMO- Pneu"mo-.  A combining form from Gr. a lung; as, pneumogastric, pneumology. 

PNEUMOCOCCUS:  A form of micrococcus found in the sputum (and elsewhere) of persons suffering with pneumonia, and thought to be the cause of this disease. 

PNEUMOGASTRIC:  Of or pertaining to the lungs and the stomach.  -- n.  The pneumogastric nerve. Pneumogastric nerve (Anat.), one of the tenth pair of cranial nerves which are distributed to the pharynx, esophagus, larynx, lungs, heart, stomach, liver, and spleen, and, in fishes and many amphibia, to the branchial apparatus and also to the sides of the body. 

PNEUMOGRAPH:  Same as Pneumatograph. 

PNEUMOGRAPHY:  A description of the lungs. Dunglison. 

PNEUMOLOGY:  The science which treats of the lungs. 

PNEUMOMETER:  A spirometer. 

PNEUMOMETRY:  Measurement of the capacity of the lungs for air. Dunglison. 

PNEUMONIA:  Inflammation of the lungs.  Note: Catarrhal pneumonia, or Broncho-pneumonia, is inflammation of the lung tissue, associated with catarrh and with marked evidences of inflammation of bronchial membranes, often chronic; -- also called lobular pneumonia, from its affecting single lobules at a time.  -- Croupous pneumonia, or ordinary pneumonia, is an acute affection characterized by sudden onset with a chill, high fever, rapid course, and sudden decline; -- also called lobar pneumonia, from its affecting a whole lobe of the lung at once. See under Croupous.  -- Fibroid pneumonia is an inflammation of the interstitial connective tissue lying between the lobules of the lungs, and is very slow in its course, producing shrinking and atrophy of the lungs. 

PNEUMONIC:  A medicine for affections of the lungs. 

PNEUMONITIC:  Of or pertaining to pneumonitis. 

PNEUMONITIS:  Inflammation of the lungs; pneumonia. 

PNEUMONOMETER:  A spirometer; a pneumometer. 

PNEUMONOPHORA:  The division of Siphonophora which includes the Physalia and allied genera; -- called also Pneumatophoræ. 

PNEUMONY:  See Pneumonia.  PNEUMOOTOKA; PNEUMOOETOKA Pneu`mo*öt"o*ka, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Pneumo-, and Oöticoid.] (Zoöl.)  Same as Sauropsida. 

PNEUMOPHORA:  A division of holothurians having an internal gill, or respiratory tree. 

PNEUMOSKELETON:  A chitinous structure which supports the gill in some invertebrates. 

PNEUMOTHERAPY:  The treatment of disease by inhalations of compressed or rarefied air. 

PNEUMOTHORAX:  A condition in which air or other gas is present in the cavity of the chest; -- called also pneumatothorax. 

PNIGALION:  Nightmare. 

PNYX:  The place at Athens where the meetings of the people were held for making decrees, etc. 

POA:  A genus of grasses, including a great number of species, as the kinds called meadow grass, Kentucky blue grass, June grass, and spear grass (which see). 

POACH:  To steal or pocket game, or to carry it away privately, as in a bag; to kill or destroy game contrary to law, especially by night; to hunt or fish unlawfully; as, to poach for rabbits or for salmon. 

POACH:  To become soft or muddy. Chalky and clay lands . . . chap in summer, and poach in winter. Mortimer. 

POACHER:  The American widgeon. [Local, U.S.] Sea poacher (Zoöl.), the lyrie. 

POACHINESS:  The state of being poachy; marshiness. 

POACHY:  Wet and soft; easily penetrated by the feet of cattle; -- said of land  POAK; POAKE Poak, Poake, n.  Waste matter from the preparation of skins, consisting of hair, lime, oil, etc. 

POCAN:  The poke (Phytolacca decandra); -- called also pocan bush. 

POCHARD:  See Poachard. 

POCK:  A pustule raised on the surface of the body in variolous and vaccine diseases. Of pokkes and of scab every sore. Chaucer. 

POCKARRED:  See Pockmarked. [Obs.]  POCK-BROKEN Pock"-bro`ken, a.  Broken out, or marked, with smallpox; pock-fretten. 

POCKET:  A hole or space covered by a movable piece of board, as in a floor, boxing, partitions, or the like.  5. (Mining.) (a) A cavity in a rock containing a nugget of gold, or other mineral; a small body of ore contained in such a cavity. (b) A hole containing water.  6. (Nat.)  A strip of canvas, sewn upon a sail so that a batten or a light spar can placed in the interspace.  7. (Zoöl.)  Same as Pouch.  Note: Pocket is often used adjectively, or in the formation of compound words usually of obvious signification; as, pocket comb, pocket compass, pocket edition, pocket handkerchief, pocket money, pocket picking, or pocket-picking, etc. Out of pocket. See under Out, prep.  -- Pocket borough, a borough "owned" by some person. See under Borough. [Eng.] -- Pocket gopher (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American rodents of the genera Geomys, and Thomomys, family Geomydæ. They have large external cheek pouches, and are fossorial in their habits. they inhabit North America, from the Mississippi Valley west to the Pacific. Called also pouched gopher.  -- Pocket mouse (Zoöl.), any species of American mice of the family Saccomyidæ. They have external cheek pouches. Some of them are adapted for leaping (genus Dipadomys), and are called kangaroo mice. They are native of the Southwestern United States, Mexico, etc.  -- Pocket piece, a piece of money kept in the pocket and not spent.  -- Pocket pistol, a pistol to be carried in the pocket.  -- Pocket sheriff (Eng. Law), a sheriff appointed by the sole authority of the crown, without a nomination by the judges in the exchequer. Burrill. deep pocket, or deep pockets, wealth or substantial financial assets.  Note: Used esp. in legal actions, where plaintiffs desire to find a defendant with "deep pockets", so as to be able to actually obtain the sum of damages which may be judged due to him. This contrasts with a "judgment-proof" defendant, one who has neither assets nor insurance, and against whom a judgment for monetary damages would be worthless. 

POCKETBOOK:  A small book or case for carrying papers, money, etc., in the pocket; also, a notebook for the pocket. 

POCKETFUL:  As much as a pocket will hold; enough to fill a pocket; as, pocketfuls of chestnuts. 

POCKETKNIFE:  A knife with one or more blades, which fold into the handle so as to admit of being carried in the pocket.  POCKET VETO Pocket veto.  The retention by the President of the United States of a bill unsigned so that it does not become a law, in virtue of the following constitutional provision (Const. Art. I., sec. 7, cl. 2): "If any bill shall not be returned by the President within ten days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the same shall be a law, in like manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their adjournment prevent its return, in which case it shall not be a law." Also, an analogous retention of a bill by a State governor.  POCK-FRETTEN Pock"-fret`ten, a.  See Pockmarked. 

POCKINESS:  The state of being pocky. 

POCKMARK:  A mark or pit made by smallpox. 

POCKMARKED:  Marked by smallpox; pitted.  POCK-PITTED Pock"-pit`ted, a.  Pockmarked; pitted.  POCK-PUDDING Pock"-pud`ding, n.  A bag pudding; a name of reproach or ridicule formerly applied by the Scotch to the English. 

POCKWOOD:  Lignum-vitæ. 

POCKY:  Full of pocks; affected with smallpox or other eruptive disease. Bp. Hall. 

POCO:  A little; -- used chiefly in phrases indicating the time or movement; as, poco più allegro, a little faster; poco largo, rather slow. Poco a poco Etym: [It.] (Mus.) Little by little; as, poco a poco crescendo, gradually increasing in loudness. 

POCOCK:  Peacock. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POCOCURANTE:  A careless person; a trifler. [R.] 

POCOCURANTISM:  Carelessness; apathy; indifference. [R.] Carlyle. 

POCOSON:  Low, wooded grounds or swamps in Eastern Maryland and Virginia. [Written also poquoson.] Washington. 

POCULENT:  Fit for drink. [Obs.] "Some those herbs which are not esculent, are . . . poculent." Bacon. 

POCULIFORM:  Having the shape of a goblet or drinking cup.  -POD -pod. Etym: [See Foot.]  A combining form or suffix from Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot; as, decapod, an animal having ten feet; phyllopod, an animal having leaflike feet; myriapod, hexapod. 

POD:  A capsule of plant, especially a legume; a dry dehiscent fruit. See Illust. of Angiospermous.  3. (Zoöl.)  A considerable number of animals closely clustered together; -- said of seals. Pod auger, or pod bit, an auger or bit the channel of which is straight instead of twisted. 

POD:  To swell; to fill; also, to produce pods.  -PODA -po*da.  A New Latin plural combining form or suffix from Gr. foot; as, hexapoda, myriapoda. See -pod. 

PODAGRA:  Gout in the joints of the foot; -- applied also to gout in other parts of body.  PODAGRIC; PODAGRICAL Po*dag"ric, Po*dag"ric*al, a. Etym: [L. podagricus, Gr.  1. Pertaining to the gout; gouty; caused by gout.  2. Afflicted with gout. Sir T. Browne. 

PODAGROUS:  Gouty; podagric. 

PODALGIA:  pain in the foot, due to gout, rheumatism, etc. 

PODARTHRUM:  The foot joint; in birds, the joint between the metatarsus and the toes. 

PODDED:  Having pods. 

PODDER:  One who collects pods or pulse. 

PODETIUM:  A stalk which bears the fructification in some lichens, as in the so-called reindeer moss. 

PODGY:  Fat and short; pudgy. 

PODICAL:  Anal; -- applied to certain organs of insects. 

PODICEPS:  See Grebe. 

PODIUM:  A low wall, serving as a foundation, a substructure, or a terrace wall. It is especially employed by archæologists in two senses: (a) The dwarf wall surrounding the arena of an amphitheater, from the top of which the seats began. (b) The masonry under the stylobate of a temple, sometimes a mere foundation, sometimes containing chambers. See Illust. of Column.  2. (Zoöl.)  The foot. 

PODLEY:  A young coalfish.  PODO- Pod"o-. Etym: [See Foot.]  A combining form or prefix from Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot; as, podocarp, podocephalous, podology. 

PODOBRANCH:  One of branchiæ attached to the bases of the legs in Crustacea. 

PODOBRANCHIA:  Same as Podobranch. 

PODOCARP:  A stem, or footstalk, supporting the fruit. 

PODOCEPHALOUS:  Having a head of flowers on a long peduncle, or footstalk. 

PODOGYNIUM:  Same as Basigynium 

PODOPHTHALMIA:  The stalk-eyed Crustacea, -- an order of Crustacea having the eyes supported on movable stalks. It includes the crabs, lobsters, and prawns. Called also Podophthalmata, and Decapoda.  PODOPHTHALMIC; PODOPHTHALMOUS Pod`oph*thal"mic, Pod`oph*thal"mous, a. Etym: [Podo- + Gr. (Zoöl.) (a) Having the eyes on movable footstalks, or pedicels. (b) Of or pertaining to the Podophthalmia. 

PODOPHTHALMITE:  The eyestalk of a crustacean. 

PODOPHYLLIN:  A brown bitter gum extracted from the rootstalk of the May apple (Podophyllum peltatum). It is a complex mixture of several substances. 

PODOPHYLLOUS:  Having thin, flat, leaflike locomotive organs.  2. (Anat.)  Pertaining to, or composing, the layer of tissue, made up of laminæ, beneath a horse's hoof. 

PODOPHYLLUM:  A genus of herbs of the Barberry family, having large palmately lobed peltate leaves and solitary flower. There are two species, the American Podohyllum peltatum, or May apple, the Himalayan P. Emodi.  2. (Med.)  The rhizome and rootlet of the May apple (Podophyllum peltatum), -- used as a cathartic drug. 

PODOSCAPH:  A canoe-shaped float attached to the foot, for walking on water. 

PODOSPERM:  The stalk of a seed or ovule. 

PODOSTOMATA:  An order of Bryozoa of which Rhabdopleura is the type. See Rhabdopleura. 

PODOTHECA:  The scaly covering of the foot of a bird or reptile. 

PODRIDA:  A miscellaneous dish of meats. See Olla-podrida. 

PODURA:  Any small leaping thysanurous insect of the genus Podura and related genera; a springtail. Podura scale (Zoöl.), one of the minute scales with which the body of a podura is covered. They are used as test objects for the microscope. 

PODURID:  Any species of Podura or allied genera.  -- a.  Pertaining to the poduras. 

POE:  Same as Pol. 

POEBIRD:  The parson bird. 

POECILE:  Same as Poicile. 

POECILOPOD:  One of the Poecilopoda. Also used adjectively. 

POEMATIC:  Pertaining to a poem, or to poetry; poetical. [R.] Coleridge. 

POENAMU:  A variety of jade or nephrite, -- used in New Zealand for the manufacture of axes and weapons. 

POENOLOGY:  See Penology. 

POEPHAGA:  A group of herbivorous marsupials including the kangaroos and their allies.  -- Po*eph"a*gous, a. 

POET:  One skilled in making poetry; one who has a particular genius for metrical composition; the author of a poem; an imaginative thinker or writer. The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven. Shak. A poet is a maker, as the word signifies. Dryden. Poet laureate. See under Laureate. 

POETASTER:  An inferior rhymer, or writer of verses; a dabbler in poetic art. The talk of forgotten poetasters. Macaulay. 

POETASTRY:  The works of a poetaster. [R.] 

POETESS:  A female poet.  POETIC; POETICAL Po*et"ic, Po*et"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. poëticus, Gr. poétiquee.]  1. Of or pertaining to poetry; suitable for poetry, or for writing poetry; as, poetic talent, theme, work, sentiments. Shak.  2. Expressed in metrical form; exhibiting the imaginative or the rhythmical quality of poetry; as, a poetical composition; poetical prose. Poetic license. See License, n., 4. 

POETICALLY:  In a poetic manner. 

POETICS:  The principles and rules of the art of poetry. J. Warton. 

POETICULE:  A poetaster. Swinburne. 

POETIZE:  To write as a poet; to compose verse; to idealize. I versify the truth, not poetize. Donne. 

POETRY:  An angle in the south transept of Westminster Abbey, London; -- so called because it contains the tombs of Chaucer, Spenser, Dryden, Ben Jonson, Gray, Tennyson, Browning, and other English poets, and memorials to many buried elsewhere. 

POETSHIP:  The state or personality of a poet. [R.] 

POGAMOGGAN:  An aboriginal weapon consisting of a stone or piece of antler fastened to the end of a slender wooden handle, used by American Indians from the Great Plains to the Mackenzie River. 

POGY:  The menhaden.  Note: Pogy is often confounded with porgy, and therefore incorrectly applied to various fishes. 

POH:  An exclamation expressing contempt or disgust; bah ! 

POHAGEN:  See Pauhaugen. 

POI:  A national food of the Hawaiians, made by baking and pounding the kalo (or taro) root, and reducing it to a thin paste, which is allowed to ferment.  POICILE; POECILE Poi"ci*le, or; Poe"ci*le, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. poecile.]  The frescoed porch or gallery in Athens where Zeno taught. R. Browning. 

POIGNANCY:  The quality or state of being poignant; as, the poignancy of satire; the poignancy of grief. Swift. 

POIGNANTLY:  In a poignant manner. 

POIKILITIC:  See Poecilitic. 

POIKILOCYTE:  An irregular form of corpuscle found in the blood in cases of profound anæmia, probably a degenerated red blood corpuscle.  POIKILOTHERMAL; POIKILOTHERMIC Poi`ki*lo*ther"mal, Poi`ki*lo*ther"mic, a. Etym: [Gr. thermal, thermic.] (Physiol.)  Having a varying body temperature. See Homoiothermal. 

POIKILOTHERMOUS:  Poikilothermal. 

POINCIANA:  A prickly tropical shrub (Cæsalpinia, formerly Poinciana, pulcherrima), with bipinnate leaves, and racemes of showy orange-red flowers with long crimson filaments.  Note: The genus Poinciana is kept up for three trees of Eastern Africa, the Mascarene Islands, and India. 

POINSETTIA:  A Mexican shrub (Euphorbia pulcherrima) with very large and conspicuous vermilion bracts below the yellowish flowers. 

POINT:  To appoint. [Obs.] Spenser. 

POINT:  A dot or mark used to designate certain tones or time; as: (a) (Anc. Mus.) A dot or mark distinguishing or characterizing certain tones or styles; as, points of perfection, of augmentation, etc.; hence, a note; a tune. "Sound the trumpet -- not a levant, or a flourish, but a point of war." Sir W. Scott. (b) (Mod. Mus.) A dot placed at the right hand of a note, to raise its value, or prolong its time, by one half, as to make a whole note equal to three half notes, a half note equal to three quarter notes.  13. (Astron.)  A fixed conventional place for reference, or zero of reckoning, in the heavens, usually the intersection of two or more great circles of the sphere, and named specifically in each case according to the position intended; as, the equinoctial points; the solstitial points; the nodal points; vertical points, etc. See Equinoctial Nodal.  14. (Her.)  One of the several different parts of the escutcheon. See Escutcheon.  15. (Naut.) (a) One of the points of the compass (see Points of the compass, below); also, the difference between two points of the compass; as, to fall off a point. (b) A short piece of cordage used in reefing sails. See Reef point, under Reef.  16. (Anc. Costume)  A a string or lace used to tie together certain parts of the dress. Sir W. Scott.  17. Lace wrought the needle; as, point de Venise; Brussels point. See Point lace, below.  18. pl. (Railways)  A switch. [Eng.]  19. An item of private information; a hint; a tip; a pointer. [Cant, U. S.]  20. (Cricket)  A fielder who is stationed on the off side, about twelve or fifteen yards from, and a little in advance of, the batsman.  21. The attitude assumed by a pointer dog when he finds game; as, the dog came to a point. See Pointer.  22. (Type Making)  A standard unit of measure for the size of type bodies, being one twelfth of the thickness of pica type. See Point system of type, under Type.  23. A tyne or snag of an antler.  24. One of the spaces on a backgammon board.  25. (Fencing)  A movement executed with the saber or foil; as, tierce point.  Note: The word point is a general term, much used in the sciences, particularly in mathematics, mechanics, perspective, and physics, but generally either in the geometrical sense, or in that of degree, or condition of change, and with some accompanying descriptive or qualifying term, under which, in the vocabulary, the specific uses are explained; as, boiling point, carbon point, dry point, freezing point, melting point, vanishing point, etc. At all points, in every particular, completely; perfectly. Shak.  -- At point, In point, At, In, or On, the point, as near as can be; on the verge; about (see About, prep., 6); as, at the point of death; he was on the point of speaking. "In point to fall down." Chaucer. "Caius Sidius Geta, at point to have been taken, recovered himself so valiantly as brought day on his side." Milton.  -- Dead point. (Mach.) Same as Dead center, under Dead.  -- Far point (Med.), in ophthalmology, the farthest point at which objects are seen distinctly. In normal eyes the nearest point at which objects are seen distinctly; either with the two eyes together (binocular near point), or with each eye separately (monocular near point).  -- Nine points of the law, all but the tenth point; the greater weight of authority.  -- On the point. See At point, above.  -- Point lace, lace wrought with the needle, as distinguished from that made on the pillow.  -- Point net, a machine-made lace imitating a kind of Brussels lace (Brussels ground).  -- Point of concurrence (Geom.), a point common to two lines, but not a point of tangency or of intersection, as, for instance, that in which a cycloid meets its base.  -- Point of contrary flexure, a point at which a curve changes its direction of curvature, or at which its convexity and concavity change sides.  -- Point of order, in parliamentary practice, a question of order or propriety under the rules.  -- Point of sight (Persp.), in a perspective drawing, the point assumed as that occupied by the eye of the spectator.  -- Point of view, the relative position from which anything is seen or any subject is considered.  -- Points of the compass (Naut.), the thirty-two points of division of the compass card in the mariner's compass; the corresponding points by which the circle of the horizon is supposed to be divided, of which the four marking the directions of east, west, north, and south, are called cardinal points, and the rest are named from their respective directions, as N. by E., N. N. E., N. E. by N., N. E., etc. See Illust. under Compass.  -- Point paper, paper pricked through so as to form a stencil for transferring a design.  -- Point system of type. See under Type.  -- Singular point (Geom.), a point of a curve which possesses some property not possessed by points in general on the curve, as a cusp, a point of inflection, a node, etc.  -- To carry one's point, to accomplish one's object, as in a controversy.  -- To make a point of, to attach special importance to.  -- To make, or gain, a point, accomplish that which was proposed; also, to make advance by a step, grade, or position.  -- To mark, or score, a point, as in billiards, cricket, etc., to note down, or to make, a successful hit, run, etc.  -- To strain a point, to go beyond the proper limit or rule; to stretch one's authority or conscience.  -- Vowel point, in Hebrew, and certain other Eastern and ancient languages, a mark placed above or below the consonant, or attached to it, representing the vowel, or vocal sound, which precedes or follows the consonant. 

POINT:  To fill up and finish the joints of (a wall), by introducing additional cement or mortar, and bringing it to a smooth surface.  9. (Stone Cutting)  To cut, as a surface, with a pointed tool. To point a rope (Naut.), to taper and neatly finish off the end by interweaving the nettles.  -- To point a sail (Naut.), to affix points through the eyelet holes of the reefs.  -- To point off, to divide into periods or groups, or to separate, by pointing, as figures.  -- To point the yards (of a vessel) (Naut.), to brace them so that the wind shall strike the sails obliquely. Totten. 

POINT:  To approximate to the surface; to head; -- said of an abscess. To point at, to treat with scorn or contempt by pointing or directing attention to.  -- To point well (Naut.), to sail close to the wind; -- said of a vessel. 

POINTAL:  The pistil of a plant.  2. A kind of pencil or style used with the tablets of the Middle Ages. "A pair of tablets [i. e., tablets] . . . and a pointel." Chaucer.  3. (Arch.)  See Poyntel. [Obs. or R.]  POINT ALPHABET Point alphabet.  An alphabet for the blind with a system of raised points corresponding to letters.  POINT APPLIQUE Point appliqué.  Lace having a needle-made design applied to a net ground, this ground often being machine-made.  POINT-BLANK Point`-blank", n. Etym: [F. point point + blanc white.]  1. The white spot on a target, at which an arrow or other missile is aimed. [Obs.] Jonson.  2. (Mil.) (a) With all small arms, the second point in which the natural line of sight, when horizontal, cuts the trajectory. (b) With artillery, the point where the projectile first strikes the horizontal plane on which the gun stands, the axis of the piece being horizontal.  POINT-BLANK Point`-blank", a.  1. Directed in a line toward the object aimed at; aimed directly toward the mark.  2. Hence, direct; plain; unqualified; -- said of language; as, a point-blank assertion. Point-blank range, the extent of the apparent right line of a ball discharged.  -- Point-blank shot, the shot of a gun pointed directly toward the object to be hit.  POINT-BLANK Point`-blank", adv.  In a point-blank manner. To sin point-blank against God's word. Fuller.  POINT D'APPUI Point` d'ap`pui". Etym: [F.] (Mil.)  See under Appui.  POINT-DEVICE; POINT-DEVISE Point`-de*vice", Point`-de*vise", a. Etym: [OE. at point devis; at at + point point, condition + devis exact, careful, OF. devis fixed, set. See Device.]  Uncommonly nice and exact; precise; particular. You are rather point-devise in your accouterments. Shak. Thus he grew up, in logic point-devise, Perfect in grammar, and in rhetoric nice. Longfellow.  POINT-DEVICE; POINT-DEVISE Point`-de*vice", Point`-de*vise", adv.  Exactly. [Obs.] Shak. 

POINTEL:  See Pointal. 

POINTER:  One who, or that which, points. Specifically: (a) The hand of a timepiece. (b) (Zoöl.) One of a breed of dogs trained to stop at scent of game, and with the nose point it out to sportsmen. (c) pl. (Astron.)  The two stars (Merak and Dubhe) in the Great Bear, the line between which points nearly in the direction of the north star. See Illust. of Ursa Major. (b) pl. (Naut.)  Diagonal braces sometimes fixed across the hold. 

POINTING:  The act or process of measuring, at the various distances from the surface of a block of marble, the surface of a future piece of statuary; also, a process used in cutting the statue from the artist's model. 

POINTINGSTOCK:  An object of ridicule or scorn; a laughingstock. Shak. 

POINTLESS:  Having no point; blunt; wanting keenness; obtuse; as, a pointless sword; a pointless remark.  Syn.  -- Blunt; obtuse, dull; stupid. 

POINTLESSLY:  Without point. 

POINTLETED:  Having a small, distinct point; apiculate. Henslow. 

POINTREL:  A graving tool. Knight. 

POINTSMAN:  A man who has charge of railroad points or switches. [Eng.]  POINT SWITCH Point switch. (Railroads)  A switch made up of a rail from each track, both rails being tapered far back and connected to throw alongside the through rail of either track. 

POISE:  To hang in equilibrium; to be balanced or suspended; hence, to be in suspense or doubt. The slender, graceful spars Poise aloft in air. Longfellow. 

POISER:  The balancer of dipterous insects. 

POISON:  To act as, or convey, a poison. Tooth that poisons if it bite. Shak. 

POISONER:  One who poisons. Shak. 

POISONOUS:  Having the qualities or effects of poison; venomous; baneful; corrupting; noxious. Shak.  -- Poi"son*ous*ly, adv.  -- Poi"son*ous*ness, n. 

POISONSOME:  Poisonous.[Obs.] Holland. 

POISURE:  Weight. [Obs.] 

POITREL:  The breastplate of the armor of a horse. See Peytrel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POIZE:  See Poise. [Obs.] 

POKAL:  A tall drinking cup. 

POKE:  A large North American herb of the genus Phytolacca (P. decandra), bearing dark purple juicy berries; -- called also garget, pigeon berry, pocan, and pokeweed. The root and berries have emetic and purgative properties, and are used in medicine. The young shoots are sometimes eaten as a substitute for asparagus, and the berries are said to be used in Europe to color wine. 

POKE:  To put a poke on; as, to poke an ox. [Colloq. U. S.] To poke fun, to excite fun; to joke; to jest. [Colloq.] -- To poke fun at, to make a butt of; to ridicule. [Colloq.] 

POKE:  To search; to feel one's way, as in the dark; to grope; as, to poke about. A man must have poked into Latin and Greek. Prior. 

POKEBAG:  The European long-tailed titmouse; -- called also poke-pudding. [Prov. Eng.] 

POKER:  The poachard. [Prov. Eng.] Poker picture, a picture formed in imitation of bisterwashed drawings, by singeing the surface of wood with a heated poker or other iron. Fairholt. 

POKER:  A game at cards derived from brag, and first played about 1835 in the Southwestern United States. Johnson's Cyc.  Note: A poker hand is played with a poker deck, composed of fifty-two cards, of thirteeen values, each card value being represented once in each of four "suits", namely spades, hearts, diamonds, and clubs. The game is played in many variations, but almost invariably the stage of decision as to who wins occurs when each player has five cards (or chooses five cards from some larger number available to him). The winner usually is the player with the highest-valued hand, but, in some variations, the winner may be the player with the lowest-valued hand. The value of a hand is ranked by hand types, representing the relationships of the cards to each other. [The hand types are ranked by the probability of receiving such a hand when dealt five cards.] Within each hand type the value is also ranked by the values of the cards. The hand types are labeled, in decreasing value: five of a kind; royal flush; straight flush; four of a kind; full house (coll. full boat, or boat); flush; straight; three of a kind; two pairs; one pair; and, when the contending players have no hands of any of the above types, the player with the highest-valued card wins -- if there is a tie, the next-highest-valued card of the tied players determines the winner, and so on. If two players have the same type of hand, the value of the cards within each type determines the winner; thus, if two players both have three of a kind (and no other player has a higher type of hand), the player whose three matched cards have the highest card value is the winner. 

POKER:  Any imagined frightful object, especially one supposed to haunt the darkness; a bugbear. [Colloq. U. S.]  POKER DICE Poker dice.  A game played with five dice in which the count is usually made, in order, by pairs, two pairs, three of a kind, full houses, four of a kind, and five of a kind (the highest throw), similar to poker; also, the dice used in this game, esp. when marked with the ace, king, queen, jack, ten, and nine instead of the usual digits. 

POKERISH:  Infested by pokers; adapted to excite fear; as, a pokerish place. [Colloq. U. S.] There is something pokerish about a deserted dwelling. Lowell. 

POKERISH:  Stiff like a poker. [Colloq.] 

POKET:  A pocket. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POKEWEED:  See Poke, the plant. 

POKEY:  See Poky. 

POKING:  Drudging; servile. [Colloq.] Bred to some poking profession. Gray.  POKING-STICK Pok"ing-stick`, n.  A small stick or rod of steel, formerly used in adjusting the plaits of ruffs. Shak. 

POLACCA:  A vessel with two or three masts, used in the Mediterranean. The masts are usually of one piece, and without tops, caps, or crosstrees.  2. (Mus.)  See Polonaise. 

POLACK:  A Polander. Shak. 

POLACRE:  Same as Polacca, 1. 

POLANDER:  A native or inhabitant of Poland; a Pole. 

POLAR:  Pertaining to, reckoned from, or having a common radiating point; as, polar coördinates. Polar axis, that axis of an astronomical instrument, as an equatorial, which is parallel to the earths axis.  -- Polar bear (Zoöl.), a large bear (Ursus, or Thalarctos, maritimus) inhabiting the arctic regions. It sometimes measures nearly nine feet in length and weighs 1,600 pounds. It is partially amphibious, very powerful, and the most carnivorous of all the bears. The fur is white, tinged with yellow. Called also White bear. See Bear.  -- Polar body, cell, or globule (Biol.), a minute cell which separates by karyokinesis from the ovum during its maturation. In the maturation of ordinary ova two polar bodies are formed, but in parthogenetic ova only one. The first polar body formed is usually larger than the second one, and often divides into two after its separation from the ovum. Each of the polar bodies removes maternal chromatin from the ovum to make room for the chromatin of the fertilizing spermatozoön; but their functions are not fully understood.  -- Polar circles (Astron. & Geog.), two circles, each at a distance from a pole of the earth equal to the obliquity of the ecliptic, or about 23º 28', the northern called the arctic circle, and the southern the antarctic circle.  -- Polar clock, a tube, containing a polarizing apparatus, turning on an axis parallel to that of the earth, and indicating the hour of the day on an hour circle, by being turned toward the plane of maximum polarization of the light of the sky, which is always 90º from the sun.  -- Polar coördinates. See under 3d Coördinate.  -- Polar dial, a dial whose plane is parallel to a great circle passing through the poles of the earth. Math. Dict.  -- Polar distance, the angular distance of any point on a sphere from one of its poles, particularly of a heavenly body from the north pole of the heavens.  -- Polar equation of a line or surface, an equation which expresses the relation between the polar coördinates of every point of the line or surface.  -- Polar forces (Physics), forces that are developed and act in pairs, with opposite tendencies or properties in the two elements, as magnetism, electricity, etc.  -- Polar hare (Zoöl.), a large hare of Arctic America (Lepus arcticus), which turns pure white in winter. It is probably a variety of the common European hare (L. timidus).  -- Polar lights, the aurora borealis or australis.  -- Polar, or Polaric, opposition or contrast (Logic), an opposition or contrast made by the existence of two opposite conceptions which are the extremes in a species, as white and black in colors; hence, as great an opposition or contrast as possible.  -- Polar projection. See under Projection.  -- Polar spherical triangle (Spherics), a spherical triangle whose three angular points are poles of the sides of a given triangle. See 4th Pole, 2.  -- Polar whale (Zoöl.), the right whale, or bowhead. See Whale. 

POLAR:  The right line drawn through the two points of contact of the two tangents drawn from a given point to a given conic section. The given point is called the pole of the line. If the given point lies within the curve so that the two tangents become imaginary, there is still a real polar line which does not meet the curve, but which possesses other properties of the polar. Thus the focus and directrix are pole and polar. There are also poles and polar curves to curves of higher degree than the second, and poles and polar planes to surfaces of the second degree. 

POLARCHY:  See Polyarchy. 

POLARIC:  See Polar. [R.] 

POLARILY:  In a polary manner; with polarity. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

POLARIMETER:  An instrument for determining the amount of polarization of light, or the proportion of polarized light, in a partially polarized ray. 

POLARIMETRY:  The art or process of measuring the polarization of light. 

POLARIS:  The polestar. See North star, under North. 

POLARISCOPE:  An instrument consisting essentially of a polarizer and an analyzer, used for polarizing light, and analyzing its properties. 

POLARISCOPIC:  Of or pertaining to the polariscope; obtained by the use of a polariscope; as, polariscopic observations. 

POLARISCOPY:  The art or rocess of making observations with the polariscope. 

POLARISTIC:  Pertaining to, or exhibiting, poles; having a polar arrangement or disposition; arising from, or dependent upon, the possession of poles or polar characteristics; as, polaristic antagonism. 

POLARITY:  That quality or condition of a body in virtue of which it exhibits opposite, or contrasted, properties or powers, in opposite, or contrasted, parts or directions; or a condition giving rise to a contrast of properties corresponding to a contrast of positions, as, for example, attraction and repulsion in the opposite parts of a magnet, the dissimilar phenomena corresponding to the different sides of a polarized ray of light, etc.  2. (Geom.)  A property of the conic sections by virtue of which a given point determines a corresponding right line and a given right line determines a corresponding point. See Polar, n. 

POLARIZABLE:  Susceptible of polarization. 

POLARIZATION:  A peculiar affection or condition of the rays of light or heat, in consequence of which they exhibit different properties in different directions.  Note: If a beam of light, which has been reflected from a plate of unsilvered glass at an angle of about 56°, be received upon a second plate of glass similar to the former, and at the same angle of incidence, the light will be readily reflected when the two planes of incidence are parallel to each other, but will not be reflected when the two planes of incidence are perpendicular to each other. The light has, therefore, acquired new properties by reflection from the first plate of glass, and is called polarized light, while the modification which the light has experienced by this reflection is called polarization. The plane in which the beam of light is reflected from the first mirror is called the plane of polarization. The angle of polarization is the angle at which a beam of light must be reflected, in order that the polarization may be the most complete. The term polarization was derived from the theory of emission, and it was conceived that each luminous molecule has two poles analogous to the poles of a magnet; but this view is not now held. According to the undulatory theory, ordinary light is produced by vibrations transverse or perpendicular to the direction of the ray, and distributed as to show no distinction as to any particular direction. But when, by any means, these, vibrations are made to take place in one plane, the light is said to be plane polarized. If only a portion of the vibrations lie in one plane the ray is said to be partially polarized. Light may be polarized by several methods other than by reflection, as by refraction through most crystalline media, or by being transmitted obliquely through several plates of glass with parallel faces. If a beam of polarized light be transmitted through a crystal of quartz in the direction of its axis, the plane of polarization will be changed by an angle proportional to the thickness of the crystal. This phenomenon is called rotatory polarization. A beam of light reflected from a metallic surface, or from glass surfaces under certain peculiar conditions, acquires properties still more complex, its vibrations being no longer rectilinear, but circular, or elliptical. This phenomenon is called circular or elliptical polarization.  3. (Elec.)  An effect produced upon the plates of a voltaic battery, or the electrodes in an electrolytic cell, by the deposition upon them of the gases liberated by the action of the current. It is chiefly due to the hydrogen, and results in an increase of the resistance, and the setting up of an opposing electro-motive force, both of which tend materially to weaken the current of the battery, or that passing through the cell. 

POLARIZE:  To communicate polarity to. 

POLARIZER:  That which polarizes; especially, the part of a polariscope which receives and polarizes the light. It is usually a reflecting plate, or a plate of some crystal, as tourmaline, or a doubly refracting crystal. 

POLARY:  Tending to a pole; having a direction toward a pole. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

POLATOUCHE:  A flying squirrel (Sciuropterus volans) native of Northern Europe and Siberia; -- called also minene. 

POLDER:  A tract of low land reclaimed from the sea by of high embankments. [Holland & Belgium] 

POLDWAY:  A kind of coarse bagging, -- used for coal sacks. Weale. 

POLE:  A native or inhabitant of Poland; a Polander. 

POLE:  A point upon the surface of a sphere equally distant from every part of the circumference of a great circle; or the point in which a diameter of the sphere perpendicular to the plane of such circle meets the surface. Such a point is called the pole of that circle; as, the pole of the horizon; the pole of the ecliptic; the pole of a given meridian.  3. (Physics)  One of the opposite or contrasted parts or directions in which a polar force is manifested; a point of maximum intensity of a force which has two such points, or which has polarity; as, the poles of a magnet; the north pole of a needle.  4. The firmament; the sky. [Poetic] Shoots against the dusky pole. Milton.  5. (Geom.)  See Polarity, and Polar, n. Magnetic pole. See under Magnetic.  -- Poles of the earth, or Terrestrial poles (Geog.), the two opposite points on the earth's surface through which its axis passes.  -- Poles of the heavens, or Celestial poles, the two opposite points in the celestial sphere which coincide with the earth's axis produced, and about which the heavens appear to revolve.  POLEAX; POLEAXE Pole"ax`, Pole"axe`, n. Etym: [OE. pollax; cf. OD. pollexe. See Poll head, and Ax.]  Anciently, a kind of battle-ax with a long handle; later, an ax or hatchet with a short handle, and a head variously patterned; -- used by soldiers, and also by sailors in boarding a vessel. 

POLEDAVY:  A sort of coarse canvas; poldway. [Obs.] Howell. 

POLELESS:  Without a pole; as, a poleless chariot. 

POLEMARCH:  In Athens, originally, the military commanderin-chief; but, afterward, a civil magistrate who had jurisdiction in respect of strangers and sojourners. In other Grecian cities, a high military and civil officer. 

POLEMICAL:  Polemic; controversial; disputatious.  -- Po*lem"ic*al*ly, adv. Polemical and impertinent disputations. Jer. Taylor. 

POLEMICIST:  A polemic. [R.] 

POLEMICS:  The art or practice of disputation or controversy, especially on religious subjects; that branch of theological science which pertains to the history or conduct of ecclesiastical controversy. 

POLEMIST:  A polemic. [R.] 

POLEMONIACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Polemoniaceæ), which includes Polemonium, Phlox, Gilia, and a few other genera. 

POLEMONIUM:  A genus of gamopetalous perennial herbs, including the Jacob's ladder and the Greek valerian. 

POLEMOSCOPE:  An opera glass or field glass with an oblique mirror arranged for seeing objects do not lie directly before the eye; -- called also diagonal, or side, opera glass. 

POLEMY:  Warfare; war; hence, contention; opposition. [Obs.] 

POLENTA:  Pudding made of Indian meal; also, porridge made of chestnut meal. [Italy] 

POLER:  One who poles. 

POLER:  An extortioner. See Poller. [Obs.] Bacon. 

POLEWARDS:  Toward a pole of the earth. "The regions further polewards." Whewell. 

POLEWIG:  The European spotted goby (Gobius minutus); -- called also pollybait. [Prov. Eng.] 

POLEY:  See Poly. 

POLEY:  Without horns; polled. [Prov. Eng.] "That poley heifer." H. Kingsley. 

POLIANITE:  Manganese dioxide, occurring in tetragonal crystals nearly as hard as quartz. 

POLICATE:  Same as Pollicate. 

POLICE:  Military police, the body of soldiers detailed to preserve civil order and attend to sanitary arrangements in a camp or garrison.  5. The cleaning of a camp or garrison, or the state Police commissioner, a civil officer, usually one of a board, commissioned to regulate and control the appointment, duties, and discipline of the police.  -- Police constable, or Police officer, a policeman.  -- Police court, a minor court to try persons brought before it by the police.  -- Police inspector, an officer of police ranking next below a superintendent.  -- Police jury, a body of officers who collectively exercise jurisdiction in certain cases of police, as levying taxes, etc.; -- so called in Louisiana. Bouvier.  -- Police justice, or Police magistrate, a judge of a police court.  -- Police offenses (Law), minor offenses against the order of the community, of which a police court may have final jurisdiction.  -- Police station, the headquarters of the police, or of a section of them; the place where the police assemble for orders, and to which they take arrested persons. 

POLICE:  To make clean; as, to police a camp. 

POLICED:  Regulated by laws for the maintenance of peace and order, enforced by organized administration. "A policed kingdom." Howell. 

POLICEMAN:  A member of a body of police; a constable.  POLICE POWER Police power. (Law)  The inherent power of a government to regulate its police affairs. The term police power is not definitely fixed in meaning. In the earlier cases in the United States it was used as including the whole power of internal government, or the powers of government inherent in every sovereignty to the extent of its dominions (11 Peters (U. S.) 102). The later cases have excepted from its domain the development and administration of private law. Modern political science defines the power as a branch of internal administration in the exercise of which the executive should move within the lines of general principles prescribed by the constitution or the legislature, and in the exercise of which the most local governmental organizations should participate as far as possible (Burgess). Under this limitation the police power, as affecting persons, is the power of the state to protect the public against the abuse of individual liberty, that is, to restrain the individual in the exercise of his rights when such exercise becomes a danger to the community. The tendency of judicial and popular usage is towards this narrower definition. 

POLICIAL:  Relating to the police. [R.] 

POLICIED:  Policed. [Obs.] Bacon. 

POLICY:  To regulate by laws; to reduce to order. [Obs.] "Policying of cities." Bacon. 

POLING:  The operation of dispersing worm casts over the walks with poles.  3. One of the poles or planks used in upholding the side earth in excavating a tunnel, ditch, etc. 

POLISH:  Of or pertaining to Poland or its inhabitants.  -- n.  The language of the Poles. 

POLISH:  To become smooth, as from friction; to receive a gloss; to take a smooth and glossy surface; as, steel polishes well. Bacon. 

POLISHABLE:  Capable of being polished. 

POLISHED:  Made smooth and glossy, as by friction; hence, highly finished; refined; polite; as, polished plate; polished manners; polished verse. 

POLISHEDNESS:  The quality of being polished. 

POLISHER:  One who, or that which, polishes; also, that which is used in polishing. Addison. 

POLISHING:  a. & n. from Polish. Polishing iron, an iron burnisher; esp., a small smoothing iron used in laundries.  -- Polishing slate. (a) A gray or yellow slate, found in Bohemia and Auvergne, and used for polishing glass, marble, and metals. (b) A kind of hone or whetstone; hone slate.  -- Polishing snake, a tool used in cleaning lithographic stones.  -- Polishing wheel, a wheel or disk coated with, or composed of, abrading material, for polishing a surface. 

POLISHMENT:  The act of polishing, or the state of being polished. [R.] 

POLITE:  To polish; to refine; to render polite. [Obs.] Ray. 

POLITESSE:  Politeness. 

POLITIC:  A politician. [Archaic] Bacon. Swiftly the politic goes; is it dark he borrows a lantern; Slowly the statesman and sure, guiding his feet by the stars. Lowell. 

POLITICALISM:  Zeal or party spirit in politics. 

POLITICASTER:  A petty politician; a pretender in politics. Milton. 

POLITICIAN:  Cunning; using artifice; politic; artful. "Ill-meaning politician lords." Milton. 

POLITICIST:  A political writer. [R.] 

POLITICLY:  In a politic manner; sagaciously; shrewdly; artfully. Pope. 

POLITIZE:  To play the politician; to dispute as politicians do. [Obs.] Milton. 

POLITURE:  Polish; gloss. [Obs.] Donne. 

POLITZERIZATION:  The act of inflating the middle ear by blowing air up the nose during the act of swallowing; -- so called from Prof. Politzer of Vienna, who first practiced it. 

POLIVE:  A pulley. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POLKA:  A lively Bohemian or Polish dance tune in 2-4 measure, with the third quaver accented. Polka jacket, a kind of knit jacket worn by women. 

POLL:  A parrot; -- familiarly so called. 

POLL:  One who does not try for honors, but is content to take a degree merely; a passman. [Cambridge Univ., Eng.] 

POLL:  The place where the votes are cast or recorded; as, to go to the polls.  6. The broad end of a hammer; the but of an ax.  7. (Zoöl.)  The European chub. See Pollard, 3 (a). Poll book, a register of persons entitled to vote at an election.  -- Poll evil (Far.), an inflammatory swelling or abscess on a horse's head, confined beneath the great ligament of the neck.  -- Poll pick (Mining), a pole having a heavy spike on the end, forming a kind of crowbar.  -- Poll tax, a tax levied by the head, or poll; a capitation tax. 

POLL:  To cut or shave smooth or even; to cut in a straight line without indentation; as, a polled deed. See Dee. Burrill. To poll a jury, to call upon each member of the jury to answer individually as to his concurrence in a verdict which has been rendered. 

POLL:  To vote at an election. Beaconsfield. 

POLLAGE:  A head or poll tax; hence, extortion. [Obs.] Foxe. 

POLLAN:  A lake whitefish (Coregonus pollan), native of Ireland. In appearance it resembles a herring. 

POLLARD:  To lop the tops of, as trees; to poll; as, to pollard willows. Evelyn. 

POLLAX:  A poleax. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POLLED:  Deprived of a poll, or of something belonging to the poll. Specifically: (a) Lopped; -- said of trees having their tops cut off. (b) Cropped; hence, bald; -- said of a person. "The polled bachelor." Beau. & Fl. (c) Having cast the antlers; -- said of a stag. (d) Without horns; as, polled cattle; polled sheep. 

POLLEN:  The fecundating dustlike cells of the anthers of flowers. See Flower, and Illust. of Filament. Pollen grain (Bot.), a particle or call of pollen.  -- Pollen mass, a pollinium. Gray.  -- Pollen sac, a compartment of an anther containing pollen, -- usually there are four in each anther.  -- Pollen tube, a slender tube which issues from the pollen grain on its contact with the stigma, which it penetrates, thus conveying, it is supposed, the fecundating matter of the grain to the ovule. 

POLLENARIOUS:  Consisting of meal or pollen. 

POLLENED:  Covered with pollen. Tennyson. 

POLLENIFEROUS:  Producing pollen; polliniferous. 

POLLENIN:  A substance found in the pollen of certain plants. [R.] 

POLLENIZE:  To supply with pollen; to impregnate with pollen. 

POLLER:  One who polls; specifically: (a) One who polls or lops trees. (b) One who polls or cuts hair; a barber. [R.] (c) One who extorts or plunders. [Obs.] Bacon. (d) One who registers voters, or one who enters his name as a voter. 

POLLEX:  The first, or preaxial, digit of the fore limb, corresponding to the hallux in the hind limb; the thumb. In birds, the pollex is the joint which bears the bastard wing. 

POLLICATE:  Having a curved projection or spine on the inner side of a leg joint; -- said of insects. 

POLLICITATION:  A promise without mutuality; a promise which has not been accepted by the person to whom it is made. Bouvier. 

POLLINATE:  Pollinose. 

POLLINATE:  To apply pollen to (a stigma).  -- Pol`li*na"tion, n. (Bot.) 

POLLINCTOR:  One who prepared corpses for the funeral. 

POLLINIFEROUS:  Producing pollen; polleniferous. 

POLLINIUM:  A coherent mass of pollen, as in the milkweed and most orchids. 

POLLINOSE:  Having the surface covered with a fine yellow dust, like pollen.  POLLIWIG; POLLIWOG Pol"li*wig, Pol"li*wog, n. Etym: [OE. polwigle. Cf. Poll head, and Wiggle.] (Zoöl.)  A tadpole; -- called also purwiggy and porwigle. 

POLLOCK:  A marine gadoid fish (Pollachius carbonarius), native both of the European and American coasts. It is allied to the cod, and like it is salted and dried. In England it is called coalfish, lob, podley, podling, pollack, etc. 

POLLUCITE:  A colorless transparent mineral, resembling quartz, occurring with castor or castorite on the island of Elba. It is a silicate of alumina and cæsia. Called also pollux. 

POLLUTE:  To render ceremonially unclean; to disqualify or unfit for sacred use or service, or for social intercourse. Neither shall ye pollute the holy things of the children of Israel, lest ye die. Num. xviii. 32. They have polluted themselves with blood. Lam. iv. 14.  Syn.  -- To defile; soil; contaminate; corrupt; taint; vitiate; debauch; dishonor; ravish. 

POLLUTE:  Polluted. [R.] Milton. 

POLLUTED:  Defiled; made unclean or impure; debauched.  -- Pol*lut"ed*ly, adv.  -- Pol*lut"ed*ness, n. 

POLLUTER:  One who pollutes. Dryden. 

POLLUTING:  Adapted or tending to pollute; causing defilement or pollution.  -- Pol*lut"ing*ly, adv. 

POLLUTION:  The emission of semen, or sperm, at other times than in sexual intercourse. Dunglison. 

POLLUX:  A fixed star of the second magnitude, in the constellation Gemini. Cf. 3d Castor.  2. (Min.)  Same as Pollucite. 

POLLY:  A woman's name; also, a popular name for a parrot. 

POLLYWOG:  A polliwig. 

POLONAISE:  Of or pertaining to the Poles, or to Poland. [Written also Polonese.] 

POLONAISE:  A stately Polish dance tune, in 3-4 measure, beginning always on the beat with a quaver followed by a crotchet, and closing on the beat after a strong accent on the second beat; also, a dance adapted to such music; a polacca. 

POLONESE:  See Polonaise. 

POLONIUM:  A supposed new element, a radioactive substance discovered by M. and MMe. Curie in pitchblende. It is closely related chemically to bismuth. It emits only alpha rays and is perhaps identical with radium F. 

POLONY:  A kind of sausage made of meat partly cooked. 

POLRON:  See Pauldron. 

POLT:  A blow or thump. Halliwell.  -- a.  Distorted. Pot foot, a distorted foot. Sir T. Herbert.  POLT-FOOT; POLT-FOOTED Polt"-foot`, Polt"-foot`ed, a.  Having a distorted foot, or a clubfoot or clubfeet. B. Jonson. 

POLTROON:  An arrant coward; a dastard; a craven; a mean-spirited wretch. Shak. 

POLTROON:  Base; vile; contemptible; cowardly. 

POLTROONERY:  Cowardice; want of spirit; pusillanimity. 

POLTROONISH:  Resembling a poltroon; cowardly. 

POLVERINE:  Glassmaker's ashes; a kind of potash or pearlash, brought from the Levant and Syria, -- used in the manufacture of fine glass. 

POLWIG:  A polliwig. Holland.  POLY- Pol"y-. Etym: [See Full, a.]  A combining form or prefix from Gr. poly`s, many; as, polygon, a figure of many angles; polyatomic, having many atoms; polychord, polyconic. 

POLY:  A whitish woolly plant (Teucrium Polium) of the order Labiatæ, found throughout the Mediterranean region. The name, with sundry prefixes, is sometimes given to other related species of the same genus. [Spelt also poley.] Poly mountain. See Poly-mountain, in Vocabulary. 

POLYACID:  Capable of neutralizing, or of combining with, several molecules of a monobasic acid; having more than one hydrogen atom capable of being replaced by acid radicals; -- said of certain bases; as, calcium hydrate and glycerin are polyacid bases. 

POLYACOUSTIC:  Multiplying or magnifying sound.  -- n.  A polyacoustic instrument. 

POLYACOUSTICS:  The art of multiplying or magnifying sounds. 

POLYACRON:  A solid having many summits or angular points; a polyhedron. 

POLYACTINIA:  An old name for those Anthozoa which, like the actinias, have numerous simple tentacles. 

POLYADELPHIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having stamens united in three or more bodies or bundles by the filaments.  POLYADELPHIAN; POLYADELPHOUS Pol`y*a*del"phi*an, Pol`y*a*del"phous, a. (Bot.)  Belonging to the class Polyadelphia; having stamens united in three or more bundles. 

POLYANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of monoclinous or hermaphrodite plants, having many stamens, or any number above twenty, inserted in the receptacle. 

POLYANDRIAN:  Polyandrous. 

POLYANDRIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, polyandry; mating with several males. "Polyandric societies." H. Spencer. 

POLYANDROUS:  Belonging to the class Polyandria; having many stamens, or any number above twenty, inserted in the receptacle. 

POLYANDRY:  The possession by a woman of more than one husband at the same time; -- contrasted with Ant: monandry.  Note: In law, this falls under the head of polygamy. 

POLYARCHIST:  One who advocates polyarchy; -- opposed to monarchist. Cudworth. 

POLYARCHY:  A government by many persons, of whatever order or class. Cudworth. 

POLYAUTOGRAPHY:  The act or practice of multiplying copies of one's own handwriting, or of manuscripts, by printing from stone, -- a species of lithography. 

POLYBASIC:  Capable of neutralizing, or of combining with, several molecules of a monacid base; having several hydrogen atoms capable of being replaced by basic radicals; -- said of certain acids; as, sulphuric acid is polybasic. 

POLYBASITE:  An iron-black ore of silver, consisting of silver, sulphur, and antimony, with some copper and arsenic. 

POLYBRANCHIA:  A division of Nudibranchiata including those which have numerous branchiæ on the back. 

POLYBROMIDE:  A bromide containing more than one atom of bromine in the molecule. 

POLYCARPELLARY:  Composed of several or numerous carpels; -- said of such fruits as the orange.  POLYCARPIC; POLYCARPOUS Pol`y*car"pic, Pol`y*car"pous, a. Etym: [Poly- + Gr. (Bot.) (a) Bearing fruit repeatedly, or year after year. (b) Having several pistils in one flower. 

POLYCHAETA:  One of the two principal groups of Chætopoda. It includes those that have prominent parapodia and fascicles of setæ. See Illust. under Parapodia. 

POLYCHLORIDE:  A chloride containing more than one atom of chlorine in the molecule. 

POLYCHOERANY:  A government by many chiefs, princes, or rules. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

POLYCHORD:  Having many strings. 

POLYCHREST:  A medicine that serves for many uses, or that cures many diseases. [Obs.] Polychrest salt (Old Med. Chem.), potassium sulphate, specifically obtained by fusing niter with sulphur. 

POLYCHROISM:  Same as Pleochroism. 

POLYCHROITE:  The coloring matter of saffron; -- formerly so called because of the change of color on treatment with certain acids; -- called also crocin, and safranin. 

POLYCHROMATE:  A salt of a polychromic acid. 

POLYCHROMATE:  A compound which exhibits, or from which may be prepared, a variety of colors, as certain solutions derived from vegetables, which display colors by fluorescence. 

POLYCHROMATIC:  Showing a variety, or a change, of colors. Polychromatic acid (Old Chem.), a substance obtained by the action of nitric acid on aloes. 

POLYCHROME:  Esculin; -- so called in allusion to its fluorescent solutions. [R.] 

POLYCHROME:  Executed in the manner of polychromy; as, polychrome printing. 

POLYCHROMIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, any one of several acids (known only in their salts) which contain more than one atom of chromium. 

POLYCHROMOUS:  Of or pertaining to polychromy; many-colored; polychromatic. 

POLYCHROMY:  The art or practice of combining different colors, especially brilliant ones, in an artistic way. 

POLYCHRONIOUS:  Enduring through a long time; chronic. 

POLYCLINIC:  A clinic in which diseases of many sorts are treated; especially, an institution in which clinical instruction is given in all kinds of disease. 

POLYCONIC:  Pertaining to, or based upon, many cones. Polyconic projection (Map Making), a projection of the earth's surface, or any portion thereof, by which each narrow zone is projected upon a conical surface that touches the sphere along this zone, the conical surface being then unrolled. This projection differs from conic projection in that latter assumes but one cone for the whole map. Polyconic projection is that in use in the United States coast and geodetic survey. 

POLYCOTYLEDON:  A plant that has many, or more than two, cotyledons in the seed.  -- Pol`y*cot`y*led"on*ous, a. 

POLYCOTYLEDONARY:  Having the villi of the placenta collected into definite patches, or cotyledons. 

POLYCRACY:  Government by many rulers; polyarchy. 

POLYCROTIC:  Of or pertaining to polycrotism; manifesting polycrotism; as, a polycrotic pulse; a polycrotic pulse curve. 

POLYCROTISM:  That state or condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve, or sphygmogram, shows several secondary crests or elevations; -- contrasted with monocrotism and dicrotism. 

POLYCYSTID:  Pertaining to the Polycystidea, or the Polycystina. 

POLYCYSTIDEA:  A division of Gregarinæ including those that have two or more internal divisions of the body. 

POLYCYSTINA:  A division of Radiolaria including numerous minute marine species. The skeleton is composed of silica, and is often very elegant in form and sculpture. Many have been found in the fossil state. 

POLYCYSTINE:  Pertaining to the Polycystina.  -- n.  One of the Polycystina. 

POLYCYTTARIA:  A division of Radiolaria. It includes those having one more central capsules. 

POLYDACTYLISM:  The possession of more that the normal number of digits. 

POLYDIPSIA:  Excessive and constant thirst occasioned by disease. 

POLYEDRON:  See Polyhedron. 

POLYEDROUS:  See Polyhedral. 

POLYEIDIC:  Passing through several distinct larval forms; -- having several distinct kinds of young. 

POLYEIDISM:  The quality or state of being polyeidic. 

POLYEMBRYONATE:  Consisting of, or having, several embryos; polyembryonic. 

POLYEMBRYONIC:  Polyembryonate. 

POLYEMBRYONY:  The production of two or more embryos in one seed, due either to the existence and fertilization of more than one embryonic sac or to the origination of embryos outside of the embryonic sac. 

POLYFOIL:  Same as Multifoil. 

POLYGALA:  A genus of bitter herbs or shrubs having eight stamens and a two-celled ovary (as the Seneca snakeroot, the flowering wintergreen, etc.); milkwort. 

POLYGALACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Polygalaceæ) of which Polygala is the type. 

POLYGALIC:  Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, Polygala; specifically, designating an acrid glucoside (called polygalic acid, senegin, etc.), resembling, or possibly identical with, saponin. 

POLYGAMIAN:  Polygamous. 

POLYGAMIST:  One who practices polygamy, or maintains its lawfulness. 

POLYGAMIZE:  To practice polygamy; to marry several wives. Sylvester. Coleridge. 

POLYGAMOUS:  Pairing with more than one female. Most deer, cattle, and sheep are polygamous. Darwin.  3. (Bot.)  Belonging to the Polygamia; bearing both hermaphrodite and unisexual flowers on the same plant. 

POLYGAMY:  The state or habit of having more than one mate.  3. (Bot.)  The condition or state of a plant which bears both perfect and unisexual flowers. 

POLYGASTRIAN:  One of the Polygastrica. [Obs.] 

POLYGASTRIC:  Having several bellies; -- applied to muscles which are made up of several bellies separated by short tendons.  2. (Zoöl.)  Pertaining to the Polygastrica. [Obs.] 

POLYGASTRIC:  One of the Polygastrica. 

POLYGASTRICA:  The Infusoria. [Obs.]  POLYGENESIS; POLYGENY Pol`y*gen"e*sis, Po*lyg"e*ny, n. Etym: [Poly- + genesis, or root of Gr. (Biol.)  The theory that living organisms originate in cells or embryos of different kinds, instead of coming from a single cell; -- opposed to monogenesis. 

POLYGENIC:  Of or relating to polygeny; polygenetic. 

POLYGENISM:  The doctrine that animals of the same species have sprung from more than one original pair. 

POLYGENIST:  One who maintains that animals of the same species have sprung from more than one original pair; -- opposed to monogenist. 

POLYGENOUS:  Consisting of, or containing, many kinds; as, a polygenous mountain. Kirwan. 

POLYGLOTTOUS:  Speaking many languages; polyglot. [R.] "The polyglottous tribes of America." Max Müller. 

POLYGON:  A plane figure having many angles, and consequently many sides; esp., one whose perimeter consists of more than four sides; any figure having many angles. Polygon of forces (Mech.), a polygonal figure, the sides of which, taken successively, represent, in length and direction, several forces acting simultaneously upon one point, so that the side necessary to complete the figure represents the resultant of those forces. Cf. Parallelogram of forces, under Parallelogram. 

POLYGONACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of apetalous plants (Polygonaceæ), of which the knotweeds (species of Polygonum) are the type, and which includes also the docks (Rumex), the buckwheat, rhubarb, sea grape (Coccoloba), and several other genera. 

POLYGONAL:  Having many angles. Polygonal numbers, certain figurate numbers. See under Figurate. 

POLYGONEUTIC:  Having two or more broods in a season. 

POLYGONOMETRY:  The doctrine of polygons; an extension of some of the principles of trigonometry to the case of polygons. 

POLYGONOUS:  Polygonal. 

POLYGONUM:  A genus of plants embracing a large number of species, including bistort, knotweed, smartweed, etc. 

POLYGONY:  Any plant of the genus Polygonum. 

POLYGORDIUS:  A genus of marine annelids, believed to be an ancient or ancestral type. It is remarkable for its simplicity of structure and want of parapodia. It is the type of the order Archiannelida, or Gymnotoma. See Loeven's larva. 

POLYGRAM:  A figure consisting of many lines. [R.] Barlow. 

POLYGRAPH:  Pertaining to, or employed in, polygraphy; as, a polygraphic instrument.  2. Done with a polygraph; as, a polygraphic copy. 

POLYGROOVED:  Having many grooves; as, a polygrooved rifle or gun (referring to the rifling). 

POLYGYN:  A plant of the order Polygynia. 

POLYGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants having many styles.  POLYGYNIAN; POLYGYNOUS Pol`y*gyn"i*an, Po*lyg"y*nous, a. (Bot.)  Having many styles; belonging to the order Polygynia. 

POLYGYNIST:  One who practices or advocates polygyny. H. Spenser. 

POLYGYNY:  The state or practice of having several wives at the same time; marriage to several wives. H. Spenser. 

POLYHALITE:  A mineral usually occurring in fibrous masses, of a brick-red color, being tinged with iron, and consisting chiefly of the sulphates of lime, magnesia, and soda.  POLYHEDRAL; POLYHEDRICAL Pol`y*he"dral, Pol`y*hed"ric*al, a. Etym: [See Polyhedron.] (Geom.)  Having many sides, as a solid body. Polyhedral angle, an angle bounded by three or more plane angles having a common vertex. 

POLYHEDRON:  A body or solid contained by many sides or planes.  2. (Opt.)  A polyscope, or multiplying glass. 

POLYHEDROUS:  Polyhedral. 

POLYHISTOR:  One versed in various learning. [R.] 

POLYHYMNIA:  The Muse of lyric poetry. 

POLYIODIDE:  A iodide having more than one atom of iodine in the molecule. 

POLYLOGY:  Talkativeness. [R.] 

POLYLOQUENT:  Garrulous; loquacious. [R.] 

POLYMASTISM:  The condition of having more than two mammæ, or breasts. 

POLYMATHIC:  Pertaining to polymathy; acquainted with many branches of learning. 

POLYMATHIST:  One versed in many sciences; a person of various learning. 

POLYMATHY:  The knowledge of many arts and sciences; variety of learning. Johnson. 

POLYMENISCOUS:  Having numerous facets; -- said of the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans. 

POLYMER:  Any one of two or more substances related to each other by polymerism; specifically, a substance produced from another substance by chemical polymerization. [Formerly also written polymere.] 

POLYMERIC:  Having the same percentage composition (that is, having the same elements united in the same proportion by weight), but different molecular weights; -- often used with with; thus, cyanic acid (CNOH), fulminic acid (C2N2O2H2), and cyanuric acid (C3N3O3H3), are polymeric with each other.  Note: The figures expressing the number of atoms of each element in a number of polymeric substances are respectively multiples and factors of each other, or have some simple common divisor. The relation may be merely a numerical one, as in the example given above, or a chemical one, as in the case of aldehyde, paraldehyde, and metaldehyde. 

POLYMERIZATION:  The act or process of changing to a polymeric form; the condition resulting from such change. 

POLYMERIZE:  To cause polymerization of; to produce polymers from; to increase the molecular weight of, without changing the atomic proportions; thus, certain acids polymerize aldehyde. 

POLYMERIZE:  To change into another substance having the same atomic proportions, but a higher molecular weight; to undergo polymerization; thus, aldehyde polymerizes in forming paraldehyde. 

POLYMEROUS:  Having many parts or members in each set. Gray.  2. (Chem.)  Polymeric. [Obs.] 

POLYMNIA:  See Polyhymnia. 

POLYMNITE:  A stone marked with dendrites and black lines, and so disposed as to represent rivers, marshes, etc. 

POLYMORPH:  A substance capable of crystallizing in several distinct forms; also, any one of these forms. Cf. Allomorph. 

POLYMORPHIC:  Polymorphous. 

POLYMORPHISM:  Same as Pleomorphism.  2. (Biol.) (a) The capability of assuming different forms; the capability of widely varying in form. (b) Existence in many forms; the coexistence, in the same locality, of two or more distinct forms independent of sex, not connected by intermediate gradations, but produced from common parents. 

POLYMORPHOSIS:  The assumption of several structural forms without a corresponding difference in function; -- said of sponges, etc. 

POLYMORPHOUS:  Having, or occurring in, several distinct forms; -- opposed to monomorphic. 

POLYMORPHY:  Existence in many forms; polymorphism.  POLY-MOUNTAIN Po`ly-moun"tain, n. (Bot.) (a) Same as Poly, n. (b) The closely related Teucrium montanum, formerly called Polium montanum, a plant of Southern Europe. (c) The Bartsia alpina, a low purple-flowered herb of Europe. 

POLYMYODAE:  Same as Oscines. 

POLYMYODOUS:  Polymyoid. 

POLYMYOID:  Having numerous vocal muscles; of or pertaining to the Polymyodæ. 

POLYNEME:  Any one of numerous species of tropical food fishes of the family Polynemidæ. They have several slender filaments, often very long, below the pectoral fin. Some of them yield isinglass of good quality. Called also threadfish. 

POLYNEMOID:  Of or pertaining to the polynemes, or the family Polynemidæ. 

POLYNESIAN:  Of or pertaining to Polynesia (the islands of the eastern and central Pacific), or to the Polynesians. 

POLYNESIANS:  The race of men native in Polynesia. 

POLYNIA:  The open sea supposed to surround the north pole. Kane. 

POLYNOMIAL:  An expression composed of two or more terms, connected by the signs plus or minus; as, a2 - 2ab + b2. 

POLYNUCLEAR:  Containing many nuclei. 

POLYNUCLEOLAR:  Having more than one nucleolus. 

POLYOMMATOUS:  Having many eyes. 

POLYONOMOUS:  Having many names or titles; polyonymous. Sir W. Jones. 

POLYONOMY:  The use of a variety of names for the same object. G. S. Faber. 

POLYONYMOUS:  Polyonomous.  POLYOPTRON; POLYOPTRUM Pol`y*op"tron, Pol`y*op"trum, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Opt.)  A glass through which objects appear multiplied, but diminished in size. [R.] 

POLYORAMA:  A view of many objects; also, a sort of panorama with dissolving views. 

POLYP:  Same as Anthozoa. See Anthozoa, Madreporaria, Hydroid. [Written also polype.] Fresh-water polyp, the hydra.  -- Polyp stem (Zoöl.), that portion of the stem of a siphonophore which bears the polypites, or feeding zooids. 

POLYPAROUS:  Producing or bearing a great number; bringing forth many. 

POLYPARY:  Same as Polypidom. 

POLYPE:  See Polyp. 

POLYPEAN:  Of or pertaining to a polyp, or polyps. 

POLYPERYTHRIN:  A coloring matter found in many simple Anthozoa and some hydroids. 

POLYPETALOUS:  Consisting of, or having, several or many separate petals; as, a polypetalous corolla, flower, or plant. Martyn. 

POLYPHAGOUS:  Eating, or subsisting on, many kinds of food; as, polyphagous animals. 

POLYPHAGY:  The practice or faculty of subsisting on many kinds of food. 

POLYPHASE:  Having or producing two or more phases; multiphase; as, a polyphase machine, a machine producing two or more pressure waves of electro-motive force, differing in phase; a polyphase current. 

POLYPHASER:  A machine generating more than one pressure wave; a multiphaser. 

POLYPHEMUS:  A very large American moth (Telea polyphemus) belonging to the Silkworm family (Bombycidæ). Its larva, which is very large, bright green, with silvery tubercles, and with oblique white stripes on the sides, feeds on the oak, chestnut, willow, cherry, apple, and other trees. It produces a large amount of strong silk. Called also American silkworm. 

POLYPHONE:  A character or vocal sign representing more than one sound, as read, which is pronounced red or rèd. 

POLYPHONIC:  Consisting of several tone series, or melodic parts, progressing simultaneously according to the laws of counterpoint; contrapuntal; as, a polyphonic composition; -- opposed to homophonic, or monodic. 

POLYPHONISM:  Polyphony. 

POLYPHONIST:  A master of polyphony; a contrapuntist. 

POLYPHONOUS:  Same as Polyphonic. 

POLYPHONY:  Composition in mutually related, equally important parts which share the melody among them; contrapuntal composition; -- opposed to homophony, in which the melody is given to one part only, the others filling out the harmony. See Counterpoint. 

POLYPHORE:  A receptacle which bears many ovaries.  POLYPHOTAL; POLYPHOTE Pol`y*pho"tal, Pol"y*phote, a.  [Poly- + Gr., , light.] (Elec.)  Pertaining to or designating arc lamps so constructed that more than one can be used on a single circuit. 

POLYPHYLETIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, descent from more than one root form, or from many different root forms; polygenetic; -- opposed to Ant: monophyletic. 

POLYPHYLLOUS:  Many-leaved; as, a polyphyllous calyx or perianth. 

POLYPI:  The Anthozoa. 

POLYPIDE:  One of the ordinary zooids of the Bryozoa. [Spellt also polypid.] 

POLYPIDOM:  A coral, or corallum; also, one of the coral-like structure made by bryozoans and hydroids. 

POLYPIER:  A polypidom. 

POLYPIFERA:  The Anthozoa. 

POLYPIFEROUS:  Bearing polyps, or polypites. 

POLYPIPAROUS:  Producing polyps. 

POLYPITE:  A fossil coral. 

POLYPLACOPHORA:  See Placophora. 

POLYPLASTIC:  Assuming, or having the power of assuming, many forms; as, a polyplastic element which does not preserve its original shape. 

POLYPODE:  A plant of the genus Polypodium; polypody. [Written also polypod.] 

POLYPODE:  An animal having many feet; a myriapod. 

POLYPODIUM:  A genus of plants of the order Filices or ferns. The fructifications are in uncovered roundish points, called sori, scattered over the inferior surface of the frond or leaf. There are numerous species. 

POLYPODY:  Any plant of the genus Polypodium. 

POLYPOID:  Like a polyp; having the nature of a polyp, but lacking the tentacles or other parts.  2. (Med.)  Resembling a polypus in appearance; having a character like that of a polypus. 

POLYPOMEDUSAE:  Same as Hydrozoa. 

POLYPOROUS:  Having many pores. Wright. 

POLYPORUS:  A genus of fungi having the under surface full of minute pores; also, any fungus of this genus.  Note: Polyporus fomentarius was formerly dried and cut in slices for tinder, called amadou. P. betulinus is common in America, and forms very large thick white semicircular excrescences on birch trees. Several species of Polyporous are considered edible. 

POLYPOUS:  Of the nature of a polypus; having many feet or roots, like the polypus; affected with polypus.  POLYPRAGMATIC; POLYPRAGMATICAL Pol`y*prag*mat"ic, Pol`y*prag*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Poly- + pragmatic, -ical.]  Overbusy; officious. [R.] Heywood. 

POLYPRAGMATY:  The state of being overbusy. [R.] 

POLYPROTODONTA:  A division of marsupials in which there are more fore incisor teeth in each jaw. 

POLYPTEROIDEI:  A suborder of existing ganoid fishes having numerous fins along the back. The bichir, or Polypterus, is the type. See Illust. under Crossopterygian. 

POLYPTERUS:  An African genus of ganoid fishes including the bichir. 

POLYPTOTON:  A figure by which a word is repeated in different forms, cases, numbers, genders, etc., as in Tennyson's line, -- "My own heart's heart, and ownest own, farewell." 

POLYPUS:  Same as Polyp.  2. (Med.)  A tumor, usually with a narrow base, somewhat resembling a pear, -- found in the nose, uterus, etc., and produced by hypertrophy of some portion of the mucous membrane. 

POLYRHIZOUS:  Having numerous roots, or rootlets. 

POLYSCHEMATIST:  Having, or existing in, many different forms or fashions; multiform. 

POLYSCOPE:  A glass which makes a single object appear as many; a multiplying glass. Hutton.  2. (Med.)  An apparatus for affording a view of the different cavities of the body. 

POLYSEPALOUS:  Having the sepals separate from each other. 

POLYSILICIC:  Of or pertaining to compounds formed by the condensation of two or more molecules of silicic acid. Polysilicic acid (Chem.), any one of a series of acids formed by the condensation of two or more molecules of silicic acid, with elimination of water. 

POLYSPAST:  A machine consisting of many pulleys; specifically, an apparatus formerly used for reducing luxations. 

POLYSPERMOUS:  Containing many seeds; as, a polyspermous capsule or berry. Martyn. 

POLYSPERMY:  Fullness of sperm, or seed; the passage of more than one spermatozoön into the vitellus in the impregnation of the ovum. 

POLYSPOROUS:  Containing many spores. 

POLYSTOMATA:  A division of trematode worms having more two suckers. Called also Polystomea and Polystoma. 

POLYSTOME:  Having many mouths. 

POLYSTOME:  An animal having many mouths; -- applied to Protozoa. 

POLYSTYLE:  Having many columns; -- said of a building, especially of an interior part or court; as, a polystyle hall.  -- n.  A polystyle hall or edifice. 

POLYSULPHIDE:  A sulphide having more than one atom of sulphur in the molecule; -- contrasted with monosulphide. 

POLYSULPHURET:  A polysulphide. [Obsoles.]  POLYSYLLABIC; POLYSYLLABICAL Pol`y*syl*lab"ic, Pol`y*syl*lab"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. polysyllabique.]  Pertaining to a polysyllable; containing, or characterized by, polysyllables; consisting of more than three syllables. 

POLYSYLLABICISM:  Polysyllabism. 

POLYSYLLABICITY:  Polysyllabism. 

POLYSYLLABISM:  The quality or state of being polysyllabic. 

POLYSYLLABLE:  A word of many syllables, or consisting of more syllables than three; -- words of less than four syllables being called monosyllables, dissyllables, and trisyllables. 

POLYSYNDETIC:  Characterized by polysyndeton, or the multiplication of conjunctions.  -- Pol`y*syn*det"ic*al*ly, adv. 

POLYSYNDETON:  A figure by which the conjunction is often repeated, as in the sentence, "We have ships and men and money and stores." Opposed to asyndeton. 

POLYSYNTHESIS:  The formation of a word by the combination of several simple words, as in the aboriginal languages of America; agglutination. Latham. 

POLYSYNTHETIC:  Characterized by polysynthesis; agglutinative. Polysynthetic twinning (Min.), repeated twinning, like that of the triclinic feldspar, producing fine parallel bands in alternately reversed positions. 

POLYSYNTHETICISM:  Polysynthesis. 

POLYTECHNIC:  Comprehending, or relating to, many arts and sciences; -- applied particularly to schools in which many branches of art and science are taught with especial reference to their practical application; also to exhibitions of machinery and industrial products. 

POLYTECHNICAL:  Polytechnic. 

POLYTECHNICS:  The science of the mechanic arts. 

POLYTHALAMIA:  A division of Foraminifera including those having a manychambered shell. 

POLYTHALAMOUS:  Many-chambered; -- applied to shells of Foraminifera and cephalopods. See Illust. of Nautilus. 

POLYTHEISM:  The doctrine of, or belief in, a plurality of gods. In the Old Testament, the gradual development of polytheism from the primitive monotheism may be learned. Shaff-Herzog. 

POLYTHEIST:  One who believes in, or maintains the doctrine of, a plurality of gods.  POLYTHEISTIC; POLYTHEISTICAL Pol`y*the*is"tic, Pol`y*the*is"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to polytheism; characterized by polytheism; professing or advocating polytheism; as, polytheistic worship; a polytheistic author, or nation.  -- Pol`y*the*is"tic*al*ly, adv. 

POLYTHEIZE:  To adhere to, advocate, or inculcate, the doctrine of polytheism. Milman. 

POLYTHELISM:  The condition of having more than two teats, or nipples. 

POLYTOCOUS:  Bearing fruit repeatedly, as most perennial plants; polycarpic.  2. (Zoöl.)  Producing many or young. 

POLYTOMOUS:  Subdivided into many distinct subordinate parts, which, however, not being jointed to the petiole, are not true leaflets; -- said of leaves. Henslow. 

POLYTOMY:  A division into many members. F. Bowen. 

POLYTUNGSTATE:  A salt of polytungstic acid. 

POLYTUNGSTIC:  Containing several tungsten atoms or radicals; as, polytungstic acid. Polytungstic acid (Chem.), any one of several complex acids of tungsten containing more than one atom of tungsten. 

POLYTYPE:  A cast, or facsimile copy, of an engraved block, matter in type, etc. (see citation); as, a polytype in relief. By pressing the wood cut into semifluid metal, an intaglio matrix is produced: and from this matrix, in a similar way, a polytype in relief is obtained. Hansard. 

POLYTYPE:  Of or pertaining to polytypes; obtained by polytyping; as, a polytype plate. 

POLYTYPE:  To produce a polytype of; as, to polytype an engraving. 

POLYURIA:  A persistently excessive flow of watery urine, with low specific gravity and without the presence of either albumin or sugar. It is generally accompanied with more or less thirst. 

POLYVALENT:  Multivalent. 

POLYVE:  A pulley. [Obs.] 

POLYZOA:  Same as Bryozoa. See Illust. under Bryozoa, and Phylactolæmata. 

POLYZOARIUM:  Same as Polyzoary. 

POLYZOARY:  The compound organism of a polyzoan. 

POLYZONAL:  Consisting of many zones or rings. Polyzonal lens (Opt.), a lens made up of pieces arranged zones or rings, -- used in the lanterns of lighthouses.  POLYZOON; POLYZOOEN Pol`y*zo"ön, n.; pl. Polyzoa. Etym: [NL. See Polyzoan.] (Zoöl.)  One of the individual zooids forming the compound organism of a polyzoan. 

POMACE:  The substance of apples, or of similar fruit, crushed by grinding. 

POMACENTROID:  Pertaining to the Pomacentridæ, a family of bright-colored tropical fishes having spiny opercula; -- often called coral fishes. 

POMARINE:  Having the nostril covered with a scale. Pomarine jager (Zoöl.), a North Atlantic jager (Stercorarius pomarinus) having the elongated middle tail feathers obtuse. The adult is black. 

POMATUM:  A perfumed unguent or composition, chiefly used in dressing the hair; pomade. Wiseman. 

POMATUM:  To dress with pomatum. 

POME:  A fruit composed of several cartilaginous or bony carpels inclosed in an adherent fleshy mass, which is partly receptacle and partly calyx, as an apple, quince, or pear.  2. (R. C. Ch.)  A ball of silver or other metal, which is filled with hot water, and used by the priest in cold weather to warm his hands during the service. 

POME:  To grow to a head, or form a head in growing. [Obs.] 

POMEGRANATE:  The fruit of the tree Punica Granatum; also, the tree itself (see Balaustine), which is native in the Orient, but is successfully cultivated in many warm countries, and as a house plant in colder climates. The fruit is as large as an orange, and has a hard rind containing many rather large seeds, each one separately covered with crimson, acid pulp.  2. A carved or embroidered ornament resembling a pomegranate. Ex. xxviii. 33. 

POMEL:  A pommel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POMELO:  A variety of shaddock, called also grape fruit. 

POMELY:  Dappled. [Obs.] "Pomely gray." Chaucer. 

POMERANIAN:  Of or pertaining to Pomerania, a province of Prussia on the Baltic Sea.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Pomerania. Pomeranian dog (Zoöl.), the loup-loup, or Spitz dog. 

POMEWATER:  A kind of sweet, juicy apple. [Written also pomwater.] Shak. 

POMEY:  A figure supposed to resemble an apple; a roundel, -- always of a green color. 

POMICULTURE:  The culture of fruit; pomology as an art. 

POMMAGE:  See Pomage. 

POMME:  Having the ends terminating in rounded protuberances or single balls; -- said of a cross.  POMME BLANCHE Pomme` blanche". Etym: [F., literally, white apple.]  The prairie turnip. See under Prairie. 

POMMEL:  A knob or ball; an object resembling a ball in form; as: (a) The knob on the hilt of a sword. Macaulay. (b) The knob or protuberant part of a saddlebow. (c) The top (of the head). Chaucer. (d) A knob forming the finial of a turret or pavilion. 

POMMEL:  To beat soundly, as with the pommel of a sword, or with something knoblike; hence, to beat with the fists. [Written also pummel.] 

POMMELION:  The cascabel, or hindmost knob, of a cannon. [R.] 

POMMETTE:  Having two balls or protuberances at each end; -- said of a cross. 

POMOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to pomology. 

POMOLOGIST:  One versed in pomology; one who culticvates fruit trees. 

POMOLOGY:  The science of fruits; a treatise on fruits; the cultivation of fruits and fruit trees. 

POMONA:  The goddess of fruits and fruit trees. 

POMP:  To make a pompons display; to conduct. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

POMPADOUR:  A crimson or pink color; also, a style of dress cut low and square in the neck; also, a mode of dressing the hair by drawing it straight back from the forehead over a roll; -- so called after the Marchioness de Pompadour of France. Also much used adjectively. 

POMPATIC:  Pompous. [Obs.] Barrow. 

POMPEIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or characteristic of, Pompeii, an ancient city of Italy, buried by an eruption of Vesuvius in 79 a. d., and partly uncovered by modern excavations.  POMPEIAN RED Pompeian red. (Art)  A brownish red approaching maroon, supposed to be imitated from the color of the wall panels of houses in Pompeii, which were decorated during the last age of the Republic. 

POMPELMOUS:  A shaddock, esp. one of large size. 

POMPET:  The ball formerly used to ink the type. 

POMPHOLYX:  Impure zinc oxide.  2. (Med.)  A skin disease in which there is an eruption of bullæ, without inflammation or fever. 

POMPILLION:  An ointment or pomatum made of black poplar buds. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

POMPION:  See Pumpion. 

POMPIRE:  A pearmain. [Obs.] 

POMPOLEON:  See Pompelmous.  POM-POM Pom"-pom`, n. [Imitative.]  A Vickers-Maxim one-pounder automatic machine cannon using metallic ammunition fed from a lopped belt attached to the gun; -- popularly so called from its peculiar drumming sound in action. Sometimes, any of other similar automatic cannons. 

POMPON:  A tuft or ball of wool, or the like, sometimes worn by soldiers on the front of the hat, instead of a feather. 

POMPOSITY:  The quality or state of being pompous; pompousness. Thackeray. 

POMPOSO:  Grand and dignified; in grand style. 

POMPTINE:  See Pontine. 

POMWATER:  Same as Pomewater. 

PONCELET:  A unit of power, being the power obtained from an expenditure of one hundred kilogram-meters of energy per second. One poncelet equals g watts, when g is the value of the acceleration of gravity in centimeters. 

POND:  A body of water, naturally or artificially confined, and usually of less extent than a lake. "Through pond or pool." Milton. Pond hen (Zoöl.), the American coot. See Coot (a).  -- Pond lily (Bot.), the water lily. See under Water, and Illust. under Nymphæa.  -- Pond snail (Zoöl.), any gastropod living in fresh-water ponds or lakes. The most common kinds are air-breathing snails (Pulmonifera) belonging to Limnæa, Physa, Planorbis, and allied genera. The operculated species are pectinibranchs, belonging to Melantho, Valvata, and various other genera.  -- Pond spice (Bot.), an American shrub (Tetranthera geniculata) of the Laurel family, with small oval leaves, and axillary clusters of little yellow flowers. The whole plant is spicy. It grows in ponds and swamps from Virginia to Florida.  -- Pond tortoise, Pond turtle (Zoöl.), any freshwater tortoise of the family Emydidæ. Numerous species are found in North America. 

POND:  To make into a pond; to collect, as water, in a pond by damming. 

POND:  To ponder. [Obs.] Pleaseth you, pond your suppliant's plaint. Spenser. 

PONDER:  To think; to deliberate; to muse; -- usually followed by on or over. Longfellow. 

PONDERABILITY:  The quality or state of being ponderable. 

PONDERABLE:  Capable of being weighed; having appreciable weight.  -- Pon"der*a*ble*ness, n. 

PONDERAL:  Estimated or ascertained by weight; -- distinguished from numeral; as, a ponderal drachma. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

PONDERANCE:  Weight; gravity. [R.] Gregory. 

PONDERARY:  Of or pertaining to weight; as, a ponderary system. [R.] M'Culloch. 

PONDERATE:  To consider; to ponder. [R.] 

PONDERATE:  To have weight or influence. [R.] 

PONDERATION:  The act of weighing. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

PONDERER:  One who ponders. 

PONDERING:  Deliberating.  -- Pon"der*ing*ly, adv. 

PONDEROSITY:  The quality or state of being ponderous; weight; gravity; heaviness, ponderousness; as, the ponderosity of gold. Ray. 

PONDEROUSLY:  In a ponderous manner. 

PONDEROUSNESS:  The quality or state of being ponderous; ponderosity. 

PONDFISH:  Any one of numerous species of American fresh-water fishes belonging to the family Centrarchidæ; -- called also pond perch, and sunfish.  Note: The common pondfish of New England (Lepomis gibbosus) is called also bream, pumpkin seed, and sunny. See Sunfish. The long-eared pondfish (Lepomis auritus) of the Eastern United States is distinguished by its very long opercular flap. 

PONDWEED:  Any aquatic plant of the genus Potamogeton, of which many species are found in ponds or slow-moving rivers. Choke pondweed, an American water weed (Anarcharis, or Elodea, Canadensis.) See Anacharis.  -- Horned pondweed, the Zannichellia palustris, a slender, branching aquatic plant, having pointed nutlets. 

PONE:  A kind of johnnycake. [Written also paune.] [Southern U. S.] 

PONENT:  Western; occidental. [R.] Forth rush the levant and the ponent winds. Milton. 

PONGEE:  A fabric of undyed silk from India and China. 

PONGHEE:  A Buddhist priest of the higher orders in Burmah. Malcom. 

PONGO:  Any large ape; especially, the chimpanzee and the orang-outang. 

PONIARD:  A kind of dagger, -- usually a slender one with a triangular or square blade. She speaks poniards, and every word stabs. Shak. 

PONIARD:  To pierce with a poniard; to stab. Cowper. 

PONIBILITY:  The capability of being placed or located. [Obs.] Barrow. 

PONS:  A bridge; -- applied to several parts which connect others, but especially to the pons Varolii, a prominent band of nervous tissue situated on the ventral side of the medulla oblongata and connected at each side with the hemispheres of the cerebellum; the mesocephalon. See Brain. Pons asinorum. Etym: [L., literally, bridge of asses.] See Asses' bridge, under Ass. 

PONTAGE:  A duty or tax paid for repairing bridges. Ayliffe. 

PONTEE:  An iron rod used by glass makers for manipulating the hot glass; -- called also, puntil, puntel, punty, and ponty. See Fascet. 

PONTIC:  Of or pertaining to the Pontus, Euxine, or Black Sea. 

PONTIFEX:  A high priest; a pontiff. 

PONTIFF:  A high priest. Especially: (a) One of the sacred college, in ancient Rome, which had the supreme jurisdiction over all matters of religion, at the head of which was the Pontifex Maximus. Dr. W. Smith. (b) (Jewish Antiq.) The chief priest. (c) (R. C. Ch.) The pope. 

PONTIFICAL:  The dress and ornaments of a pontiff. "Dressed in full pontificals." Sir W. Scott. 

PONTIFICALITY:  The state and government of the pope; the papacy. [R.] Bacon. 

PONTIFICALLY:  In a pontifical manner. 

PONTIFICATE:  To perform the duty of a pontiff. 

PONTIFICE:  Bridgework; structure or edifice of a bridge. [R.] Milton. 

PONTIFICIAL:  Papal; pontifical. [Obs.] "Pontificial writers." Burton. 

PONTIFICIAN:  Of or pertaining to the pontiff or pope. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

PONTIFICIAN:  One who adheres to the pope or papacy; a papist. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu. 

PONTIL:  Same as Pontee. 

PONTILE:  Of or pertaining to the pons Varolii. See Pons. 

PONTINE:  Of or pertaining to an extensive marshy district between Rome and Naples. [Written also Pomptine.] 

PONTLEVIS:  The action of a horse in rearing repeatedly and dangerously. 

PONTON:  See Pontoon. 

PONTOON:  A wooden flat-bottomed boat, a metallic cylinder, or a frame covered with canvas, India rubber, etc., forming a portable float, used in building bridges quickly for the passage of troops.  2. (Naut.)  A low, flat vessel, resembling a barge, furnished with cranes, capstans, and other machinery, used in careening ships, raising weights, drawing piles, etc., chiefly in the Mediterranean; a lighter. Pontoon bridge, a bridge formed with pontoons.  -- Pontoon train, the carriages of the pontoons, and the materials they carry for making a pontoon bridge.  Note: The French spelling ponton often appears in scientific works, but pontoon is more common form. 

PONTOONING:  The act, art, or process of constructing pontoon bridges. "Army instruction in pontooning." Gen. W. T. Shermah. 

PONTVOLANT:  A kind of light bridge, used in sieges, for surprising a post or outwork which has but a narrow moat; a flying bridge. 

PONTY:  See Pontee. 

POOD:  A Russian weight, equal to forty Russian pounds or about thirty-six English pounds avoirdupois. 

POODLE:  A breed of dogs having curly hair, and often showing remarkable intelligence in the performance of tricks. 

POOH:  Pshaw! pish! nonsense! -- an expression of scorn, dislike, or contempt.  POOH-POOH Pooh`-pooh", v. t.  To make light of; to treat with derision or contempt, as if by saying pooh! pooh! [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

POOKOO:  A red African antelope (Kobus Vardoni) allied to the water buck. 

POOL:  A mutual arrangement between competing lines, by which the receipts of all are aggregated, and then distributed pro rata according to agreement.  7. (Law)  An aggregation of properties or rights, belonging to different people in a community, in a common fund, to be charged with common liabilities. Pin pool, a variety of the game of billiards in which small wooden pins are set up to be knocked down by the balls.  -- Pool ball, one of the colored ivory balls used in playing the game at billiards called pool.  -- Pool snipe (Zoöl.), the European redshank. [Prov. Eng.] -- Pool table, a billiard table with pockets. 

POOL:  To put together; to contribute to a common fund, on the basis of a mutual division of profits or losses; to make a common interest of; as, the companies pooled their traffic. Finally, it favors the poolingof all issues. U. S. Grant. 

POOL:  To combine or contribute with others, as for a commercial, speculative, or gambling transaction. 

POOLER:  A stick for stirring a tan vat. 

POOLING:  The act of uniting, or an agreement to unite, an aggregation of properties belonging to different persons, with a view to common liabilities or profits. 

POON:  A name for several East Indian, or their wood, used for the masts and spars of vessels, as Calophyllum angustifolium, C. inophullum, and Sterculia foetida; -- called also peon. 

POONAC:  A kind of oil cake prepared from the cocoanut. See Oil cake, under Cake.  POONAH PAINTING Poo"nah paint`ing. [From Poona, in Bombay Province, India.]  A style of painting, popular in England in the 19th century, in which a thick opaque color is applied without background and with scarcely any shading, to thin paper, producing flowers, birds, etc., in imitation of Oriental work. Hence: Poonah brush, paper, painter, etc.  POONGA OIL Poon"ga oil`.  A kind of oil used in India for lamps, and for boiling with dammar for pitching vessels. It is pressed from the seeds of a leguminous tree (Pongamia glabra). 

POOP:  See 2d Poppy. 

POOP:  To make a noise; to pop; also, to break wind. 

POOP:  A deck raised above the after part of a vessel; the hindmost or after part of a vessel's hull; also, a cabin covered by such a deck. See Poop deck, under Deck. See also Roundhouse. With wind in poop, the vessel plows the sea. Dryden. The poop was beaten gold. Shak. 

POOPING:  The act or shock of striking a vessel's stern by a following wave or vessel. 

POOR:  So completely destitute of property as to be entitled to maintenance from the public.  3. Hence, in very various applications:  Destitute of such qualities as are desirable, or might naturally be expected; as: (a) Wanting in fat, plumpness, or fleshiness; lean; emaciated; meager; as, a poor horse, ox, dog, etc. "Seven other kine came up after them, poor and very ill-favored and lean-fleshed." Gen. xli. 19. (b) Wanting in strength or vigor; feeble; dejected; as, poor health; poor spirits. "His genius . . . poor and cowardly." Bacon. (c) Of little value or worth; not good; inferior; shabby; mean; as, poor clothes; poor lodgings. "A poor vessel." Clarendon. (d) Destitute of fertility; exhausted; barren; sterile; -- said of land; as, poor soil. (e) Destitute of beauty, fitness, or merit; as, a poor discourse; a poor picture. (f) Without prosperous conditions or good results; unfavorable; unfortunate; unconformable; as, a poor business; the sick man had a poor night. (g) Inadequate; insufficient; insignificant; as, a poor excuse. That I have wronged no man will be a poor plea or apology at the last day. Calamy.  4. Worthy of pity or sympathy; -- used also sometimes as a term of endearment, or as an expression of modesty, and sometimes as a word of contempt. And for mine own poor part, Look you, I'll go pray. Shak. Poor, little, pretty, fluttering thing. Prior.  5. Free from self-assertion; not proud or arrogant; meek. "Blessed are the poor in spirit." Matt. v. 3. Poor law, a law providing for, or regulating, the relief or support of the poor.  -- Poor man's treacle (Bot.), garlic; -- so called because it was thought to be an antidote to animal poison. [Eng] Dr. Prior.  -- Poor man's weatherglass (Bot.), the red-flowered pimpernel (Anagallis arvensis), which opens its blossoms only in fair weather.  -- Poor rate, an assessment or tax, as in an English parish, for the relief or support of the poor.  -- Poor soldier (Zoöl.), the friar bird.  -- The poor, those who are destitute of property; the indigent; the needy. In a legal sense, those who depend on charity or maintenance by the public. "I have observed the more public provisions are made for the poor, the less they provide for themselves." Franklin. 

POOR:  A small European codfish (Gadus minutus); -- called also power cod. 

POORBOX:  A receptacle in which money given for the poor is placed. 

POORHOUSE:  A dwelling for a number of paupers maintained at public expense; an almshouse; a workhouse.  POOR-JOHN Poor"-john`, n. (Zoöl.)  A small European fish, similar to the cod, but of inferior quality. Poor-john and apple pies are all our fare. Sir J. Harrington. 

POORLINESS:  The quality or state of being poorly; ill health. 

POORLY:  Somewhat ill; indisposed; not in health. "Having been poorly in health." T. Scott. 

POORNESS:  The quality or state of being poor (in any of the senses of the adjective). Bacon.  POOR-SPIRITED Poor"-spir`it*ed, a.  Of a mean spirit; cowardly; base.  -- Poor"-spir`it*ed*ness, n.  POOR-WILL Poor"-will`, n. Etym: [So called in imitation of its note.] (Zoöl.)  A bird of the Western United States (Phalænoptilus Nutalli) allied to the whip-poor-will.  POOR-WILLIE Poor"-wil`lie, n. Etym: [So called in imitation of its note.] (Zoöl.)  The bar-tailed godwit. [Prov. Eng.] 

POP:  The European redwing. [Prov. Eng.] Pop corn. (a) Corn, or maize, of peculiar excellence for popping; especially, a kind the grains of which are small and compact. (b) Popped corn; which has been popped. 

POP:  Like a pop; suddenly; unexpectedly. "Pop goes his plate." Beau. & Fl. 

POPE:  A fish; the ruff. Pope Joan, a game at cards played on a round board with compartments.  -- Pope's eye, the gland surrounded with fat in the middle of the thigh of an ox or sheep. R. D. Blackmore.  -- Pope's nose, the rump, or uropygium, of a bird. See Uropygium. 

POPELOTE:  A word variously explained as "a little puppet," "a little doll," or "a young butterfly." Cf. Popet. [Obs.] So gay a popelote, so sweet a wench. Chaucer. 

POPERY:  The religion of the Roman Catholic Church, comprehending doctrines and practices; -- generally used in an opprobrious sense.  POPE'S HEAD Pope's head.  A long-handled brush for dusting ceilings, etc., also for washing windows. [Cant] 

POPET:  A puppet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POPGUN:  A child's gun; a tube and rammer for shooting pellets, with a popping noise, by compression of air. 

POPISH:  Of or pertaining to the pope; taught or ordained by the pope; hence, of or pertaining to the Roman Catholic Church; -- often used opprobriously.  -- Pop"ish*ly, adv.  -- Pop"ish*ness, n. 

POPLEXY:  Apoplexy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POPLIN:  A fabric of many varieties, usually made of silk and worsted, - - used especially for women's dresses. Irish poplin, a fabric with silk warp and worsted weft, made in Ireland. 

POPLITEAL:  Of or pertaining to the ham; in the region of the ham, or behind the knee joint; as, the popliteal space. 

POPLITIC:  Popliteal. 

POPOVTSY:  See Raskolnik. 

POPPER:  A utensil for popping corn, usually a wire basket with a long handle. 

POPPER:  A dagger. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POPPET:  One of certain upright timbers on the bilge ways, used to support a vessel in launching. Totten.  3. (Mach.)  An upright support or guide fastened at the bottom only. Poppet head, Puppet head. See Headstock (a). 

POPPING:  a. & n. from Pop. Popping crease. (Cricket) See under Crease. 

POPPLE:  To move quickly up and down; to bob up and down, as a cork on rough water; also, to bubble. Cotton. 

POPPY:  Any plant or species of the genus Papaver, herbs with showy polypetalous flowers and a milky juice. From one species (Papaver somniferum) opium is obtained, though all the species contain it to some extent; also, a flower of the plant. See Illust. of Capsule. California poppy (Bot.), any yellow-flowered plant of the genus Eschscholtzia.  -- Corn poppy. See under Corn.  -- Horn, or Horned, poppy. See under Horn.  -- Poppy bee (Zoöl.), a leaf-cutting bee (Anthocopa papaveris) which uses pieces cut from poppy petals for the lining of its cells; -- called also upholsterer bee.  -- Prickly poppy (Bot.), Argemone Mexicana, a yellow-flowered plant of the Poppy family, but as prickly as a thistle.  -- Poppy seed, the seed the opium poppy (P. somniferum).  -- Spatling poppy (Bot.), a species of Silene (S. inflata). See Catchfly.  POPPY; POPPYHEAD Pop"py, Pop"py*head`, n. Etym: [F. poupée doll, puppet. See Puppet.] (Arch.)  A raised ornament frequently having the form of a final. It is generally used on the tops of the upright ends or elbows which terminate seats, etc., in Gothic churches. 

POPULACE:  The common people; the vulgar; the multitude, -- comprehending all persons not distinguished by rank, office, education, or profession. Pope. To . . . calm the peers and please the populace. Daniel. They . . . call us Britain's barbarous populaces. Tennyson.  Syn.  -- Mob; people; commonalty. 

POPULACY:  Populace. [Obs.] Feltham. 

POPULARES:  The people or the people's party, in ancient Rome, as opposed to the optimates. 

POPULARIZATION:  The act of making popular, or of introducing among the people. 

POPULARIZE:  To make popular; to make suitable or acceptable to the common people; to make generally known; as, to popularize philosophy. "The popularizing of religious teaching." Milman. 

POPULARIZER:  One who popularizes. 

POPULARLY:  In a popular manner; so as to be generally favored or accepted by the people; commonly; currently; as, the story was popularity reported. The victor knight, Bareheaded, popularly low had bowed. Dryden. 

POPULARNESS:  The quality or state of being popular; popularity. Coleridge. 

POPULATE:  Populous. [Obs.] Bacon. 

POPULATE:  To furnish with inhabitants, either by natural increase or by immigration or colonization; to cause to be inhabited; to people. 

POPULATE:  To propagate. [Obs.] Great shoals of people which go on to populate. Bacon. 

POPULATOR:  One who populates. 

POPULICIDE:  Slaughter of the people. [R.] 

POPULIN:  A glycoside, related to salicin, found in the bark of certain species of the poplar (Populus), and extracted as a sweet white crystalline substance. 

POPULISM:  The political doctrines advocated by the People's party. 

POPULIST:  A member of the People's party. -- Pop`u*lis"tic (#), a. 

POPULOSITY:  Populousness.[Obs.] 

PORAILLE:  Poor people; the poor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PORBEAGLE:  A species of shark (Lamna cornubica), about eight feet long, having a pointed nose and a crescent-shaped tail; -- called also mackerel shark. [Written also probeagle.] 

PORCATE:  Having grooves or furrows broader than the intervening ridges; furrowed. 

PORCELAIN:  Purslain. [Obs.] 

PORCELAIN:  A fine translucent or semitransculent kind of earthenware, made first in China and Japan, but now also in Europe and America; -- called also China, or China ware. Porcelain, by being pure, is apt to break. Dryden. Ivory porcelain, porcelain with a surface like ivory, produced by depolishing. See Depolishing.  -- Porcelain clay. See under Clay.  -- Porcelain crab (Zoöl.), any crab of the genus Porcellana and allied genera (family Porcellanidæ). They have a smooth, polished carapace.  -- Porcelain jasper. (Min.) See Porcelanite.  -- Porcelain printing, the transferring of an impression of an engraving to porcelain.  -- Porcelain shell (Zoöl.), a cowry. 

PORCELAINIZED:  Baked like potter's lay; -- applied to clay shales that have been converted by heat into a substance resembling porcelain.  PORCELANEOUS; PORCELLANEOUS Por`ce*la"ne*ous, Por`cel*la"ne*ous, a.  1. Of or pertaining to porcelain; resembling porcelain; as, porcelaneous shells.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having a smooth, compact shell without pores; -- said of certain Foraminifera. 

PORCELANITE:  A semivitrified clay or shale, somewhat resembling jasper; -- called also porcelain jasper.  PORCELANOUS; PORCELLANOUS Por"ce*la`nous, Por"cel*la`nous, a.  Porcelaneous. Ure. 

PORCH:  A covered and inclosed entrance to a building, whether taken from the interior, and forming a sort of vestibule within the main wall, or projecting without and with a separate roof. Sometimes the porch is large enough to serve as a covered walk. See also Carriage porch, under Carriage, and Loggia. The graceless Helen in the porch I spied Of Vesta's temple. Dryden.  2. A portico; a covered walk. [Obs.] Repair to Pompey's porch, where you shall find find us. Shak. The Porch, a public portico, or great hall, in Athens, where Zeno, the philosopher, taught his disciples; hence, sometimes used as equivalent to the school of the Stoics. It was called "h poiki`lh stoa`. [See Poicile.] 

PORCINE:  Of or pertaining to swine; characteristic of the hog. "Porcine cheeks." G. Eliot. 

PORCUPINE:  Any Old Word rodent of the genus Hystrix, having the back covered with long, sharp, erectile spines or quills, sometimes a foot long. The common species of Europe and Asia (Hystrix cristata) is the best known.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any species of Erethizon and related genera, native of America. They are related to the true porcupines, but have shorter spines, and are arboreal in their habits. The Canada porcupine (Erethizon dorsatus) is a well known species. Porcupine ant-eater (Zoöl.), the echidna.  -- Porcupine crab (Zoöl.), a large spiny Japanese crab (Acantholithodes hystrix).  -- Porcupine disease (Med.). See Ichthyosis.  -- Porcupine fish (Zoöl.), any plectognath fish having the body covered with spines which become erect when the body is inflated. See Diodon, and Globefish.  -- Porcupine grass (Bot.), a grass (Stipa spartea) with grains bearing a stout twisted awn, which, by coiling and uncoiling through changes in moisture, propels the sharp-pointed and barbellate grain into the wool and flesh of sheep. It is found from Illinois westward. See Illustration in Appendix.  -- Porcupine wood (Bot.), the hard outer wood of the cocoa palm; -- so called because, when cut horizontally, the markings of the wood resemble the quills of a porcupine. 

PORE:  To look or gaze steadily in reading or studying; to fix the attention; to be absorbed; -- often with on or upon, and now usually with over."Painfully to pore upon a book." Shak. The eye grows weary with poring perpetually on the same thing. Dryden. 

POREBLIND:  Nearsighted; shortsighted; purblind. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PORER:  One who pores. 

PORIFERA:  A grand division of the Invertebrata, including the sponges; -- called also Spongiæ, Spongida, and Spongiozoa. The principal divisions are Calcispongiæ, Keratosa or Fibrospongiæ, and Silicea. 

PORIFERAN:  One of the Polifera. 

PORIFERATA:  The Polifera. 

PORIFORM:  Resembling a pore, or small puncture. 

PORIME:  A theorem or proposition so easy of demonstration as to be almost self-evident. [R.] Crabb. 

PORINESS:  Porosity. Wiseman. 

PORISM:  A proposition affirming the possibility of finding such conditions as will render a certain determinate problem indeterminate or capable of innumerable solutions. Playfair.  2. (Gr. Geom.)  A corollary. Brande & C.  Note: Three books of porisms of Euclid have been lost, but several attempts to determine the nature of these propositions and to restore them have been made by modern geometers.  PORISMATIC; PORISMATICAL Po`ris*mat"ic, Po`ris*mat"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to a porism; poristic.  PORISTIC; PORISTICAL Po*ris"tic, Po*ris"tic*al, a.Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to a porism; of the nature of a porism. 

PORITE:  Any coral of the genus Porites, or family Poritidæ. 

PORITES:  An important genus of reef-building corals having small twelve- rayed calicles, and a very porous coral. Some species are branched, others grow in large massive or globular forms. 

PORK:  The flesh of swine, fresh or salted, used for food. 

PORKER:  A hog. Pope. 

PORKET:  A young hog; a pig. [R.] Dryden. W. Howitt. 

PORKLING:  A pig; a porket. Tusser. 

PORKWOOD:  The coarse-grained brownish yellow wood of a small tree (Pisonia obtusata) of Florida and the West Indies. Also called pigeon wood, beefwood, and corkwood. 

PORNERASTIC:  Lascivious; licentious. [R.] F. Harrison. 

PORNOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to pornography; lascivious; licentious; as, pornographic writing. 

PORNOGRAPHY:  A treatise on prostitutes, or prostitution. 

POROSITY:  The quality or state of being porous; -- opposed to density. 

POROTIC:  A medicine supposed to promote the formation of callus. 

POROTYPE:  A copy of a print, writing, etc., made by placing it upon a chemically prepared paper which is acted upon by a gas which permeates the paper of the print, writing, etc. 

POROUS:  Full of pores; having interstices in the skin or in the substance of the body; having spiracles or passages for fluids; permeable by liquids; as, a porous skin; porous wood. "The veins of porous earth." Milton. 

POROUSLY:  In a porous manner. 

PORPENTINE:  Porcupine. [Obs.] Shak. 

PORPESSE:  A porpoise. [Obs.] 

PORPHYRACEOUS:  Porphyritic. 

PORPHYRE:  Porphyry. [Obs.] Locke. 

PORPHYRITE:  A rock with a porphyritic structure; as, augite porphyrite. 

PORPHYRITIC:  Relating to, or resembling, porphyry, that is, characterized by the presence of distinct crystals, as of feldspar, quartz, or augite, in a relatively fine-grained base, often aphanitic or cryptocrystalline. 

PORPHYRIZATION:  The act of porphyrizing, or the state of being porphyrized. 

PORPHYRIZE:  To cause to resemble porphyry; to make spotted in composition, like porphyry. 

PORPHYROGENITISM:  The principle of succession in royal families, especially among the Eastern Roman emperors, by which a younger son, if born after the accession of his father to the throne, was preferred to an elder son who was not so born. Sir T. Palgrave. 

PORPHYRY:  A term used somewhat loosely to designate a rock consisting of a fine-grained base (usually feldspathic) through which crystals, as of feldspar or quartz, are disseminated. There are red, purple, and green varieties, which are highly esteemed as marbles. Porphyry shell (Zoöl.), a handsome marine gastropod shell (Oliva porphyria), having a dark red or brown polished surface, marked with light spots, like porphyry. 

PORPITA:  A genus of bright-colored Siphonophora found floating in the warmer parts of the ocean. The individuals are round and disk-shaped, with a large zooid in the center of the under side, surrounded by smaller nutritive and reproductive zooids, and by slender dactylozooids near the margin. The disk contains a central float, or pneumatocyst. 

PORPOISE:  Any small cetacean of the genus Phocæna, especially P. communis, or P. phocæna, of Europe, and the closely allied American species (P. Americana). The color is dusky or blackish above, paler beneath. They are closely allied to the dolphins, but have a shorter snout. Called also harbor porpoise, herring hag, puffing pig, and snuffer.  2. (Zoöl.)  A true dolphin (Delphinus); -- often so called by sailors. Skunk porpoise, or Bay porpoise (Zoöl.), a North American porpoise (Lagenorhynchus acutus), larger than the common species, and with broad stripes of white and yellow on the sides. See Illustration in Appendix. 

PORPORINO:  A composition of quicksilver, tin, and sulphur, forming a yellow powder, sometimes used by mediæval artists, for the sake of economy, instead of gold. Fairholt. 

PORPUS:  A porpoise. [Obs.] Swift. 

PORRACEOUS:  Resembling the leek in color; greenish. [R.] "Porraceous vomiting." Wiseman. 

PORRECT:  Extended horizontally; stretched out. 

PORRECTION:  The act of stretching forth. 

PORRET:  A scallion; a leek or small onion. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PORRIDGE:  A food made by boiling some leguminous or farinaceous substance, or the meal of it, in water or in milk, making of broth or thin pudding; as, barley porridge, milk porridge, bean porridge, etc. 

PORRINGER:  A porridge dish; esp., a bowl or cup from which children eat or are fed; as, a silver porringer. Wordsworth. 

PORT:  A dark red or purple astringent wine made in Portugal. It contains a large percentage of alcohol. 

PORT:  An opening in the side of a vessel; an embrasure through which cannon may be discharged; a porthole; also, the shutters which close such an opening. Her ports being within sixteen inches of the water. Sir W. Raleigh.  3. (Mach.)  A passageway in a machine, through which a fluid, as steam, water, etc., may pass, as from a valve to the interior of the cylinder of a steam engine; an opening in a valve seat, or valve face. Air port, Bridle port, etc. See under Air, Bridle, etc.  -- Port bar (Naut.), a bar to secure the ports of a ship in a gale.  -- Port lid (Naut.), a lid or hanging for closing the portholes of a vessel.  -- Steam port, and Exhaust port (Steam Engine), the ports of the cylinder communicating with the valve or valves, for the entrance or exit of the steam, respectively. 

PORT:  To throw, as a musket, diagonally across the body, with the lock in front, the right hand grasping the small of the stock, and the barrel sloping upward and crossing the point of the left shoulder; as, to port arms. Began to hem him round with ported spears. Milton. Port arms, a position in the manual of arms, executed as above. 

PORT:  The manner in which a person bears himself; deportment; carriage; bearing; demeanor; hence, manner or style of living; as, a proud port. Spenser. And of his port as meek as is a maid. Chaucer. The necessities of pomp, grandeur, and a suitable port in the world. South. 

PORT:  The larboard or left side of a ship (looking from the stern toward the bow); as, a vessel heels to port. See Note under Larboard. Also used adjectively. 

PORT:  To turn or put to the left or larboard side of a ship; -- said of the helm, and used chiefly in the imperative, as a command; as, port your helm. 

PORTABILITY:  The quality or state of being portable; fitness to be carried. 

PORTABLENESS:  The quality or state of being portable; portability. 

PORTACE:  See Portass. [Obs.] 

PORTAGE:  A porthole. [Obs.] Shak. 

PORTAGE:  To carry (goods, boats, etc.) overland between navigable waters.  PORTAGE GROUP Por"tage group`. Etym: [So called from the township of Portage in New York.] (Geol.)  A subdivision of the Chemung period in American geology. See Chart of Geology. 

PORTAGUE:  A Portuguese gold coin formerly current, and variously estimated to be worth from three and one half to four and one half pounds sterling. [Obs.] [Written also portegue and portigue.] Ten thousand portagues, besides great pearls. Marlowe. 

PORTAL:  The space, at one end, between opposite trusses when these are terminated by inclined braces.  4. A prayer book or breviary; a portass. [Obs.] Portal bracing (Bridge Building), a combination of struts and ties which lie in the plane of the inclined braces at a portal, serving to transfer wind pressure from the upper parts of the trusses to an abutment or pier of the bridge. 

PORTAL:  Of or pertaining to a porta, especially the porta of the liver; as, the portal vein, which enters the liver at the porta, and divides into capillaries after the manner of an artery.  Note: Portal is applied to other veins which break up into capillaries; as, the renal portal veins in the frog. 

PORTAMENTO:  In singing, or in the use of the bow, a gradual carrying or lifting of the voice or sound very smoothly from one note to another; a gliding from tone to tone. 

PORTANCE:  See Port, carriage, demeanor. [Obs.] Spenser. Shak. 

PORTASS:  A breviary; a prayer book. [Written variously portace, portasse, portesse, portise, porthose, portos, portus, portuse, etc.] [Obs.] Spenser. Camden. By God and by this porthors I you swear. Chaucer. 

PORTATE:  Borne not erect, but diagonally athwart an escutcheon; as, a cross portate. 

PORTATIVE:  Capable of holding up or carrying; as, the portative force of a magnet, of atmospheric pressure, or of capillarity. 

PORTCLUSE:  A portcullis. [Obs.] 

PORTCRAYON:  A metallic handle with a clasp for holding a crayon. 

PORTCULLIS:  A grating of iron or of timbers pointed with iron, hung over the gateway of a fortress, to be let down to prevent the entrance of an enemy. "Let the portcullis fall." Sir W. Scott. She . . . the huge portcullis high updrew. Milton.  2. An English coin of the reign of Elizabeth, struck for the use of the East India Company; -- so called from its bearing the figure of a portcullis on the reverse. 

PORTCULLIS:  To obstruct with, or as with, a portcullis; to shut; to bar. [R.] Shak. 

PORTE:  The Ottoman court; the government of the Turkish empire, officially called the Sublime Porte, from the gate (port) of the sultan's palace at which justice was administered.  PORTE-COCHERE Porte"-co`chère", n. Etym: [F. See Port a gate, and Coach.] (Arch.)  A large doorway allowing vehicles to drive into or through a building. It is common to have the entrance door open upon the passage of the porte-cochère. Also, a porch over a driveway before an entrance door. 

PORTED:  Having gates. [Obs.] We took the sevenfold-ported Thebes. Chapman. 

PORTEGUE:  See Portague. [Obs.] 

PORTEMONNAIE:  A small pocketbook or wallet for carrying money. 

PORTENSION:  The act of foreshowing; foreboding. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PORTENT:  That which portends, or foretoken; esp., that which portends evil; a sign of coming calamity; an omen; a sign. Shak. My loss by dire portents the god foretold. Dryden. 

PORTENTIVE:  Presaging; foreshadowing. 

PORTER:  A man who has charge of a door or gate; a doorkeeper; one who waits at the door to receive messages. Shak. To him the porter openeth. John x. 3. 

PORTER:  A bar of iron or steel at the end of which a forging is made; esp., a long, large bar, to the end of which a heavy forging is attached, and by means of which the forging is lifted and handled is hammering and heating; -- called also porter bar.  3. A malt liquor, of a dark color and moderately bitter taste, possessing tonic and intoxicating qualities.  Note: Porter is said to be so called as having been first used chiefly by the London porters, and this application of the word is supposed to be not older than 1750. 

PORTERESS:  See Portress. 

PORTERHOUSE:  A house where porter is sold. Porterhouse steak, a steak cut from a sirloin of beet, including the upper and under part. 

PORTESSE:  See Porteass. [Obs.] Tyndale. 

PORTFIRE:  A case of strong paper filled with a composition of niter, sulphur, and mealed powder, -- used principally to ignite the priming in proving guns, and as an incendiary material in shells. 

PORTGLAVE:  A sword bearer. [Obs.]  PORTGREVE; PORTGRAVE Port"greve`, Port"grave`,Etym: [AS. portgerefa; port a harbor + gerefa a reeve or sheriff. See Reeve a steward, and cf. Portreeve.]  In old English law, the chief magistrate of a port or maritime town.; a portreeve. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

PORTHOLE:  An embrasure in a ship's side. See 3d Port. 

PORTHOOK:  One of the iron hooks to which the port hinges are attached. J. Knowles. 

PORTHORS:  See Portass. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PORTICO:  A colonnade or covered ambulatory, especially in classical styles of architecture; usually, a colonnade at the entrance of a building. 

PORTICOED:  Furnished with a portico. 

PORTIERE:  A curtain hanging across a doorway. 

PORTIGUE:  See Portague. Beau. & Fl. 

PORTINGAL:  Of or pertaining to Portugal; Portuguese. [Obs.] -- n.  A Portuguese. [Obs.] 

PORTIONER:  See Portionist, 2. 

PORTIONIST:  One of the incumbents of a benefice which has two or more rectors or vicars. 

PORTIONLESS:  Having no portion. 

PORTISE:  See Portass. [Obs.]  PORTLAND CEMENT Port"land ce*ment".  A cement having the color of the Portland stone of England, made by calcining an artificial mixture of carbonate of lime and clay, or sometimes certain natural limestones or chalky clays. It contains a large proportion of clay, and hardens under water.  PORTLAND STONE Port"land stone".  A yellowish-white calcareous freestone from the Isle of Portland in England, much used in building.  PORTLAND VASE Port"land vase`.  A celebrated cinerary urn or vase found in the tomb of the Emperor Alexander Severus. It is owned by the Duke of Portland, and kept in the British Museum. 

PORTLAST:  The portoise. See Portoise. 

PORTMAN:  An inhabitant or burgess of a port, esp. of one of the Cinque Ports. 

PORTMANTEAU:  A bag or case, usually of leather, for carrying wearing apparel, etc., on journeys. Thackeray. 

PORTMANTLE:  A portmanteau. [Obs.] 

PORTMOTE:  In old English law, a court, or mote, held in a port town. [Obs.] Blackstone. 

PORTOIR:  One who, or that which, bears; hence, one who, or that which, produces. [Obs.] Branches . . . which were portoirs, and bare grapes. Holland. 

PORTOISE:  The gunwale of a ship. To lower the yards a-portoise, to lower them to the gunwale.  -- To ride a portoise, to ride an anchor with the lower yards and topmasts struck or lowered, as in a gale of wind. 

PORTOS:  See Portass. [Obs.] 

PORTPANE:  A cloth for carrying bread, so as not to touch it with the hands. [Obs.] 

PORTRAIT:  To portray; to draw. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PORTRAITIST:  A portrait painter. [R.] Hamerton. 

PORTRAITURE:  To represent by a portrait, or as by a portrait; to portray. [R.] Shaftesbury. 

PORTRAYAL:  The act or process of portraying; description; delineation. 

PORTRAYER:  One who portrays. Chaucer. 

PORTREEVE:  A port warden. 

PORTRESS:  A female porter. Milton.  PORT-ROYALIST Port-roy"al*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)  One of the dwellers in the Cistercian convent of Port Royal des Champs, near Paris, when it was the home of the Jansenists in the 17th century, among them being Arnauld, Pascal, and other famous scholars. Cf. Jansenist. 

PORTSALE:  Public or open sale; auction. [Obs.] Holland. 

PORTUARY:  A breviary. [Eng.] 

PORTUGUESE:  Of or pertaining to Portugal, or its inhabitants.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or inhabitant of Portugal; people of Portugal. Portuguese man-of-war. (Zoöl.) See Physalia. 

PORTULACA:  A genus of polypetalous plants; also, any plant of the genus.  Note: Portulaca oleracea is the common purslane. P. grandiflora is a South American herb, widely cultivated for its showy crimson, scarlet, yellow, or white, ephemeral blossoms. 

PORTULACACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Portulacaceæ), of which Portulaca is the type, and which includes also the spring beauty (Claytonia) and other genera. 

PORWIGLE:  See Polliwig. 

PORY:  Porous; as, pory stone. [R.] Dryden. 

POSE:  Standing still, with all the feet on the ground; -- said of the attitude of a lion, horse, or other beast. 

POSE:  A cold in the head; catarrh. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POSE:  The attitude or position of a person; the position of the body or of any member of the body; especially, a position formally assumed for the sake of effect; an artificial position; as, the pose of an actor; the pose of an artist's model or of a statue. 

POSE:  To place in an attitude or fixed position, for the sake of effect; to arrange the posture and drapery of (a person) in a studied manner; as, to pose a model for a picture; to pose a sitter for a portrait. 

POSE:  To assume and maintain a studied attitude, with studied arrangement of drapery; to strike an attitude; to attitudinize; figuratively, to assume or affect a certain character; as, she poses as a prude. He . . . posed before her as a hero. Thackeray. 

POSED:  Firm; determined; fixed. "A most posed . . . and grave behavior." [Obs.] Urquhart. 

POSER:  One who, or that which, puzzles; a difficult or inexplicable question or fact. Bacon.  POSEUR; POSEUSE Po`seur", n. masc.; pl. Poseurs, Po`seuse", n. fem.; pl. Poseuses, [F.]  A person who poses or attitudizes, esp. mentally. 

POSIED:  Inscribed with a posy. In poised lockets bribe the fair. Gay. 

POSINGLY:  So as to pose or puzzle. 

POSIT:  To assume as real or conceded; as, to posit a principle. Sir W. Hamilton. 

POSITION:  A method of solving a problem by one or two suppositions; -- called also the rule of trial and error. Angle of position (Astron.), the angle which any line (as that joining two stars) makes with another fixed line, specifically with a circle of declination.  -- Double position (Arith.), the method of solving problems by proceeding with each of two assumed numbers, according to the conditions of the problem, and by comparing the difference of the results with those of the numbers, deducing the correction to be applied to one of them to obtain the true result.  -- Guns of position (Mil.), heavy fieldpieces, not designed for quick movements.  -- Position finder (Mil.), a range finder. See under Range.  -- Position micrometer, a micrometer applied to the tube of an astronomical telescope for measuring angles of position in the field of view.  -- Single position (Arith.), the method of solving problems, in which the result obtained by operating with an assumed number is to the true result as the number assumed is to the number required.  -- Strategic position (Mil.), a position taken up by an army or a large detachment of troops for the purpose of checking or observing an opposing force.  Syn.  -- Situation; station; place; condition; attitude; posture; proposition; assertion; thesis. 

POSITION:  To indicate the position of; to place. [R.] Encyc. Brit. 

POSITIONAL:  Of or pertaining to position. Ascribing unto plants positional operations. Sir T. Browne. 

POSITIVE:  Corresponding with the original in respect to the position of lights and shades, instead of having the lights and shades reversed; as, a positive picture.  9. (Chem.) (a) Electro-positive. (b) Hence, basic; metallic; not acid; -- opposed to negative, and said of metals, bases, and basic radicals. Positive crystals (Opt.), a doubly refracting crystal in which the index of refraction for the extraordinary ray is greater than for the ordinary ray, and the former is refracted nearer to the axis than the latter, as quartz and ice; -- opposed to negative crystal, or one in which this characteristic is reversed, as Iceland spar, tourmaline, etc.  -- Positive degree (Gram.), that state of an adjective or adverb which denotes simple quality, without comparison or relation to increase or diminution; as, wise, noble.  -- Positive electricity (Elec), the kind of electricity which is developed when glass is rubbed with silk, or which appears at that pole of a voltaic battery attached to the plate that is not attacked by the exciting liquid; -- formerly called vitreous electricity; -- opposed to Ant: negative electricity.  -- Positive eyepiece. See under Eyepiece.  -- Positive law. See Municipal law, under Law.  -- Positive motion (Mach.), motion which is derived from a driver through unyielding intermediate pieces, or by direct contact, and not through elastic connections, nor by means of friction, gravity, etc.; definite motion.  -- Positive philosophy. See Positivism.  -- Positive pole. (a) (Elec.) The pole of a battery or pile which yields positive or vitreous electricity; -- opposed to Ant: negative pole. (b) (Magnetism) The north pole. [R.] -- Positive quantity (Alg.), an affirmative quantity, or one affected by the sign plus [+].  -- Positive rotation (Mech.), left-handed rotation.  -- Positive sign (Math.), the sign [+] denoting plus, or more, or addition. 

POSITIVE:  The positive degree or form.  4. (Photog.)  A picture in which the lights and shades correspond in position with those of the original, instead of being reversed, as in a negative. R. Hunt.  5. (Elec.)  The positive plate of a voltaic or electrolytic cell. 

POSITIVELY:  In a positive manner; absolutely; really; expressly; with certainty; indubitably; peremptorily; dogmatically; -- opposed to negatively. Good and evil which is removed may be esteemed good or evil comparatively, and positively simply. Bacon. Give me some breath, some little pause, my lord, Before I positively speak herein. Shak. I would ask . . . whether . . . the divine law does not positively require humility and meekness. Sprat. Positively charged or electrified (Elec.), having a charge of positive electricity; -- opposed to Ant: negatively electrified. 

POSITIVENESS:  The quality or state of being positive; reality; actualness; certainty; confidence; peremptoriness; dogmatism. See Positive, a. Positiveness, pedantry, and ill manners. Swift. The positiveness of sins of commission lies both in the habitude of the will and in the executed act too; the positiveness of sins of omission is in the habitude of the will only. Norris. 

POSITIVISM:  A system of philosophy originated by M. Auguste Comte, which deals only with positives. It excludes from philosophy everything but the natural phenomena or properties of knowable things, together with their invariable relations of coexistence and succession, as occurring in time and space. Such relations are denominated laws, which are to be discovered by observation, experiment, and comparison. This philosophy holds all inquiry into causes, both efficient and final, to be useless and unprofitable. 

POSITIVIST:  A believer in positivism.  -- a.  Relating to positivism. 

POSITIVITY:  Positiveness. J. Morley. 

POSITURE:  See Posture. [Obs.] 

POSNET:  A little basin; a porringer; a skillet.  POSOLOGIC; POSOLOGICAL Pos`o*log"ic, Pos`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. posologique.]  Pertaining to posology. 

POSOLOGY:  The science or doctrine of doses; dosology. 

POSPOLITE:  A kind of militia in Poland, consisting of the gentry, which, in case of invasion, was summoned to the defense of the country. 

POSS:  To push; to dash; to throw. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] A cat . . . possed them [the rats] about. Piers Plowman. 

POSSE:  See Posse comitatus. In posse. See In posse in the Vocabulary.  POSSE COMITATUS Pos"se com`i*ta"tus. Etym: [L. posse to be able, to have power + LL. comitatus a county, from comes, comitis, a count. See County, and Power.]  1. (Law)  The power of the county, or the citizens who may be summoned by the sheriff to assist the authorities in suppressing a riot, or executing any legal precept which is forcibly opposed. Blackstone.  2. A collection of people; a throng; a rabble. [Colloq.]  Note: The word comitatus is often omitted, and posse alone used. "A whole posse of enthusiasts." Carlyle. As if the passion that rules were the sheriff of the place, and came off with all the posse. Locke. 

POSSESSION:  The having, holding, or detention of property in one's power or command; actual seizin or occupancy; ownership, whether rightful or wrongful.  Note: Possession may be either actual or constructive; actual, when a party has the immediate occupancy; constructive, when he has only the right to such occupancy.  3. The thing possessed; that which any one occupies, owns, or controls; in the plural, property in the aggregate; wealth; dominion; as, foreign possessions. When the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Matt. xix. 22. Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession. Acts v. 1. The house of Jacob shall possess their possessions. Ob. 17.  4. The state of being possessed or controlled, as by an evil spirit, or violent passions; madness; frenzy; as, demoniacal possession. How long hath this possession held the man Shak. To give possession, to put in another's power or occupancy.  -- To put in possession. (a) To invest with ownership or occupancy; to provide or furnish with; as, to put one in possession of facts or information. (b) (Law) To place one in charge of property recovered in ejectment or writ of entry.  -- To take possession, to enter upon, or to bring within one's power or occupancy.  -- Writ of possession (Law), a precept directing a sheriff to put a person in peaceable possession of property recovered in ejectment or writ of entry. 

POSSESSION:  To invest with property. [Obs.] 

POSSESSIONARY:  Of or pertaining to possession; arising from possession. 

POSSESSIVAL:  Of or pertaining to the possessive case; as, a possessival termination. Earle. 

POSSESSIVE:  Of or pertaining to possession; having or indicating possession. Possessive case (Eng. Gram.), the genitive case; the case of nouns and pronouns which expresses ownership, origin, or some possessive relation of one thing to another; as, Homer's admirers; the pear's flavor; the dog's faithfulness.  -- Possessive pronoun, a pronoun denoting ownership; as, his name; her home; my book. 

POSSESSIVE:  The possessive case.  2. (Gram.)  A possessive pronoun, or a word in the possessive case. 

POSSESSIVELY:  In a possessive manner. 

POSSESSOR:  One who possesses; one who occupies, holds, owns, or controls; one who has actual participation or enjoyment, generally of that which is desirable; a proprietor. "Possessors of eternal glory." Law. As if he had been possessor of the whole world. Sharp.  Syn.  -- Owner; proprietor; master; holder; occupant. 

POSSESSORY:  Of or pertaining to possession, either as a fact or a right; of the nature of possession; as, a possessory interest; a possessory lord. Possessory action or suit (Law), an action to regain or obtain possession of something. See under Petitory. 

POSSET:  A beverage composed of hot milk curdled by some strong infusion, as by wine, etc., -- much in favor formerly. "I have drugged their posset." Shak. 

POSSIBLE:  Capable of existing or occurring, or of being conceived or thought of; able to happen; capable of being done; not contrary to the nature of things; -- sometimes used to express extreme improbability; barely able to be, or to come to pass; as, possibly he is honest, as it is possible that Judas meant no wrong. With God all things are possible. Matt. xix. 26.  Syn.  -- Practicable; likely. See Practicable. 

POSSIBLY:  In a possible manner; by possible means; especially, by extreme, remote, or improbable intervention, change, or exercise of power; by a chance; perhaps; as, possibly he may recover. Can we . . . possibly his love desert Milton. When possibly I can, I will return. Shak. 

POSSUM:  An opossum. [Colloq. U. S.] To play possum, To act possum, to feign ignorance, indifference or inattention, with the intent to deceive; to dissemble; -- in allusion to the habit of the opossum, which feigns death when attacked or alarmed.  POST- Post-. Etym: [L. post behind, after; cf. Skr. paçcabehind, afterwards.]  A prefix signifying behind, back, after; as, postcommissure, postdot, postscript. 

POST:  Hired to do what is wrong; suborned. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. 

POST:  To carry, as an account, from the journal to the ledger; as, to post an account; to transfer, as accounts, to the ledger. You have not posted your books these ten years. Arbuthnot.  6. To place in the care of the post; to mail; as, to post a letter.  7. To inform; to give the news to; to make (one) acquainted with the details of a subject; -- often with up. Thoroughly posted up in the politics and literature of the day. Lond. Sat. Rev. To post off, to put off; to delay. [Obs.] "Why did I, venturously, post off so great a business" Baxter.  -- To post over, to hurry over. [Obs.] Fuller. 

POST:  To rise and sink in the saddle, in accordance with the motion of the horse, esp. in trotting. [Eng.] 

POST:  With post horses; hence, in haste; as, to travel post.  POST-ABDOMEN Post`-ab*do"men, n. Etym: [Pref. post- + abdomen.] (Zoöl.)  That part of a crustacean behind the cephalothorax; -- more commonly called abdomen. 

POSTABLE:  Capable of being carried by, or as by, post. [Obs.] W. Montagu. 

POSTACT:  An act done afterward. 

POSTAGE:  The price established by law to be paid for the conveyance of a letter or other mailable matter by a public post. Postage stamp, a government stamp required to be put upon articles sent by mail in payment of the postage, esp. an adhesive stamp issued and sold for that purpose. 

POSTAL:  Belonging to the post office or mail service; as, postal arrangements; postal authorities. Postal card, or Post card, a card sold by the government for transmission through the mails, at a lower rate of postage than a sealed letter. The message is written on one side of the card, and the direction on the other.  -- Postal money order. See Money order, under Money.  -- Postal note, an order payable to bearer, for a sum of money (in the United States less than five dollars under existing law), issued from one post office and payable at another specified office.  -- Postal Union, a union for postal purposes entered into by the most important powers, or governments, which have agreed to transport mail matter through their several territories at a stipulated rate. 

POSTANAL:  Situated behind, or posterior to, the anus. 

POSTAXIAL:  Situated behind any transverse axis in the body of an animal; caudal; posterior; especially, behind, or on the caudal or posterior (that is, ulnar or fibular) side of, the axis of a vertebrate limb. 

POSTBOY:  A captain of a war vessel whose name appeared, or was "posted," in the seniority list of the British navy, as distinguished from a commander whose name was not so posted. The term was also used in the United States navy; but no such commission as post-captain was ever recognized in either service, and the term has fallen into disuse. 

POSTCAVA:  The inferior vena cava.  -- Post"ca`val, a. B. G. Wilder. 

POSTCLAVICLE:  A bone in the pectoral girdle of many fishes projecting backward from the clavicle.  -- Post`*cla*vic"u*lar, a. 

POSTCOMMISSURE:  A transverse commisure in the posterior part of the roof of the third ventricle of the brain; the posterior cerebral commisure. B. G. Wilder. 

POSTCOMMUNION:  The concluding portion of the communion service.  2. (R. C. Ch.)  A prayer or prayers which the priest says at Mass, after the ablutions. 

POSTCORNU:  The posterior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain. B. G. Wilder. 

POSTDATE:  Made or done after the date assigned. Of these [predictions] some were postdate; cunningly made after the thing came to pass. Fuller. 

POSTDATE:  A date put to a bill of exchange or other paper, later than that when it was actually made.  POSTDILUVIAL; POSTDILUVIAN Post`di*lu"vi*al, Post`di*lu"vi*an, a. Etym: [Pref. post- + diluvial, diluvian.]  Being or happening after the flood in Noah's days. 

POSTDILUVIAN:  One who lived after the flood.  POST-DISSEIZIN Post"-dis*sei"zin, n. Etym: [Pref. post- + disseizin.] (O. Eng. Law)  A subsequent disseizin committed by one of lands which the disseizee had before recovered of the same disseizor; a writ founded on such subsequent disseizin, now abolished. Burrill. Tomlins.  POST-DISSEIZOR Post`-dis*sei"zor, n. Etym: [Pref. post- + disseizor.] (O. Eng. Law)  A person who disseizes another of lands which the disseizee had before recovered of the same disseizor. Blackstone. 

POSTEA:  The return of the judge before whom a cause was tried, after a verdict, of what was done in the cause, which is indorsed on the nisi prius record. Wharton. 

POSTEL:  Apostle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POSTENCEPHALON:  The metencephalon. 

POSTENTRY:  An additional or subsequent entry. 

POSTERIOR:  At or toward the caudal extremity; caudal; -- in human anatomy often used for dorsal.  4. (Bot.)  On the side next the axis of inflorescence; -- said of an axillary flower. Gray. 

POSTERIORITY:  The state of being later or subsequent; as, posteriority of time, or of an event; -- opposed to priority. 

POSTERIORLY:  Subsequently in time; also, behind in position. 

POSTERIORS:  The hinder parts, as of an animal's body. Swift. 

POSTERN:  A subterraneous passage communicating between the parade and the main ditch, or between the ditches and the interior of the outworks. Mahan. 

POSTERN:  Back; being behind; private. "The postern door." Dryden. 

POSTERO:  - (posterior, back; as, postero-inferior, situated back and below; postero-lateral, situated back and at the side.  POSTEXILIAN; POSTEXILIC Post`ex*il"i*an, Post`ex*il"ic, a.  After the exile; specif. (Jewish Hist.),  belonging to a period subsequent to the Babylonian captivity or exile (b. c. 597 or about 586-about 537). 

POSTEXIST:  To exist after; to live subsequently. [Obs. or R.] 

POSTEXISTENCE:  Subsequent existence. 

POSTEXISTENT:  Existing or living after. [R.] "Postexistent atoms." Cudworth. 

POSTFACT:  Relating to a fact that occurs after another. 

POSTFACT:  A fact that occurs after another. "Confirmed upon the postfact." Fuller. 

POSTFACTUM:  Same as Postfact.  POST-FINE Post"-fine`, n. Etym: [Pref. post- + fine.] (O. Eng. Law)  A duty paid to the king by the cognizee in a fine of lands, when the same was fully passed; -- called also the king's silver. 

POSTFIX:  A letter, syllable, or word, added to the end of another word; a suffix. Parkhurst. 

POSTFIX:  To annex; specifically (Gram.), to add or annex, as a letter, syllable, or word, to the end of another or principal word; to suffix. Parkhurst. 

POSTFRONTAL:  Situated behind the frontal bone or the frontal region of the skull; -- applied especially to a bone back of and below the frontal in many animals.  -- n.  A postfrontal bone. 

POSTFURCA:  One of the internal thoracic processes of the sternum of an insect. 

POSTGENITURE:  The condition of being born after another in the same family; - - distinguished from primogeniture. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

POSTGLENOID:  Situated behind the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone. 

POSTGRADUATE:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the studies pursued after graduation, esp., after receiving the bachelor's degree at a college; graduate. -- n.  A student who pursues such studies.   Most careful writers consider the word graduate to be the proper word to use in this sense. 

POSTHASTE:  Haste or speed in traveling, like that of a post or courier. Shak. 

POSTHASTE:  With speed or expedition; as, he traveled posthaste; to send posthaste. Shak. 

POSTHETOMY:  Circumcision. Dunglison. 

POSTHOUSE:  Posthumos. [Obs.] I. Watts. Fuller. 

POSTHUMOUSLY:  It a posthumous manner; after one's decease. 

POSTIC:  Backward. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

POSTIL:  A short homily or commentary on a passage of Scripture; as, the first postils were composed by order of Charlemagne. 

POSTIL:  To write marginal or explanatory notes on; to gloss. Bacon. 

POSTIL:  To write postils, or marginal notes; to comment; to postillate. Postiling and allegorizing on Scripture. J. H. Newman. 

POSTILER:  One who writers marginal notes; one who illustrates the text of a book by notes in the margin. Sir T. Browne. 

POSTILION:  One who rides and guides the first pair of horses of a coach or post chaise; also, one who rides one of the horses when one pair only is used. [Written also postillion.] 

POSTILLATE:  To explain by marginal notes; to postil. Tracts . . . postillated by his own hand. C. Knight. 

POSTILLATION:  The act of postillating; exposition of Scripture in preaching. 

POSTILLATOR:  One who postillates; one who expounds the Scriptures verse by verse. 

POSTILLER:  See Postiler.  POST-IMPRESSIONISM Post`-im*pres"sion*ism, n. (Painting)  In the broadest sense, the theory or practice of any of several groups of recent painters, or of these groups taken collectively, whose work and theories have in common a tendency to reaction against the scientific and naturalistic character of impressionism and neo- impressionism. In a strict sense the term post-impressionism is used to denote the effort at self-expression, rather than representation, shown in the work of Cézanne, Matisse, etc.; but it is more broadly used to include cubism, the theory or practice of a movement in both painting and  sculpture which lays stress upon volume as the important attribute of objects and attempts its expression by the use of geometrical figures or solids only; and futurism, a theory or practice which attempts to place the observer within the picture and to represent simultaneously a number of consecutive movements and impressions. In practice these theories and methods of the post- impressionists change with great rapidity and shade into one another, so that a picture may be both cubist and futurist in character. They tend to, and sometimes reach, a condition in which both representation and traditional decoration are entirely abolished and a work of art becomes a purely subjective expression in an arbitrary and personal language. 

POSTING:  The act of transferring an account, as from the journal to the ledger. Posting house, a post house. 

POSTLIMINIAR:  Contrived, done, or existing subsequently. "Postliminious after applications of them to their purposes." South. 

POSTLIMINIARY:  Pertaining to, or involving, the right of postliminium.  POSTLIMINIUM; POSTLIMINY Post`li*min"i*um, Post*lim"i*ny, n. Etym: [L. postliminium, post after + limen, liminis, a threshold.]  1. (Rom. Antiq.)  The return to his own country, and his former privileges, of a person who had gone to sojourn in a foreign country, or had been banished, or taken by an enemy. Burrill.  2. (Internat. Law)  The right by virtue of which persons and things taken by an enemy in war are restored to their former state when coming again under the power of the nation to which they belonged. Kent. 

POSTLUDE:  A voluntary at the end of a service. 

POSTMAN:  One of the two most experienced barristers in the Court of Exchequer, who have precedence in motions; -- so called from the place where he sits. The other of the two is called the tubman. Whishaw. 

POSTMARK:  The mark, or stamp, of a post office on a letter, giving the place and date of mailing or of arrival. 

POSTMARK:  To mark with a post-office stamp; as, to postmark a letter or parcel. 

POSTMASTER:  The chief officer of the post-office department of a government. In the United States the postmaster-general is a member of the cabinet. 

POSTMASTERSHIP:  The office of postmaster. 

POSTMERIDIAN:  After death; as, post-mortem rigidity. Post-mortem examination (Med.), an examination of the body made after the death of the patient; an autopsy. 

POSTNARES:  The posterior nares. See Nares. 

POSTNATAL:  After birth; subsequent to birth; as, postnatal infanticide; postnatal diseases. 

POSTNATE:  Subsequent. "The graces and gifts of the spirit are postnate." [Archaic] Jer. Taylor.  POST NOTE Post" note`. (Com.)  A note issued by a bank, payable at some future specified time, as distinguished from a note payable on demand. Burrill. 

POSTNUPTIAL:  Being or happening after marriage; as, a postnuptial settlement on a wife. Kent.  POST-OBIT; POST-OBIT BOND Post-o"bit, n., or; Post-o"bit bond`. Etym: [Pref. post- + obit.] (Law)  A bond in which the obligor, in consideration of having received a certain sum of money, binds himself to pay a larger sum, on unusual interest, on the death of some specified individual from whom he has expectations. Bouvier.  POST-OBIT; POST-OBIT BOND Post-o"bit, n., or Post-o"bit bond`. [Pref. post- + obit.] (Law)  A bond in which the obligor, in consideration of having received a certain sum of money, binds himself to pay a larger sum, on unusual interest, on the death of some specified individual from whom he has expectations.  Bouvier. 

POSTOBLONGATA:  The posterior part of the medulla oblongata. B. G. Wilder. 

POSTOCULAR:  Same as Postorbital.  POST OFFICE Post" of`fice, n.  See under 4th Post. 

POSTORAL:  Situated behind, or posterior to, the mouth. 

POSTORBITAL:  Situated behind the orbit; as, the postorbital scales of some fishes and reptiles.  -- n.  A postorbital bone or scale. 

POSTPAID:  Having the postage prepaid, as a letter. 

POSTPALATINE:  Situated behind the palate, or behind the palatine bones. 

POSTPLIOCENE:  Of or pertaining to the period immediately following the Pliocene; Pleistocene. Also used as a noun. See Quaternary. 

POSTPONEMENT:  The act of postponing; a deferring, or putting off, to a future time; a temporary delay. Macaulay. 

POSTPONENCE:  The act of postponing, in sense 2. [Obs.] Johnson. 

POSTPONER:  One who postpones. 

POSTPOSE:  To postpone. [Obs.] Fuller. 

POSTPOSIT:  To postpone. [Obs.] Feltham. 

POSTPOSITIONAL:  Of or pertaining to postposition. 

POSTPOSITIVE:  Placed after another word; as, a postpositive conjunction; a postpositive letter.  -- Post*pos"i*tive*ly, adv. 

POSTPRANDIAL:  Happening, or done, after dinner; after-dinner; as, postprandial speeches. 

POSTREMOGENITURE:  The right of the youngest born. Mozley & W. 

POSTREMOTE:  More remote in subsequent time or order. 

POSTRIDER:  One who rides over a post road to carry the mails. Bancroft. 

POSTSCAPULA:  The part of the scapula behind or below the spine, or mesoscapula. 

POSTSCAPULAR:  Of or pertaining to the postscapula; infraspinous. 

POSTSCENIUM:  The part of a theater behind the scenes; the back part of the stage of a theater. 

POSTSCRIBE:  To make a postscript. [R.] T. Adams. 

POSTSCRIPT:  A paragraph added to a letter after it is concluded and signed by the writer; an addition made to a book or composition after the main body of the work has been finished, containing something omitted, or something new occurring to the writer. [Abbrev. P. S.] 

POSTSCRIPTED:  Having a postscript; added in a postscript. [R.] J. Q. Adams. 

POSTSCUTELLUM:  The hindermost dorsal piece of a thoracic somite of an insect; the plate behind the scutellum. 

POSTSPHENOID:  Of or pertaining to the posterior part of the sphenoid bone.  POST-TEMPORAL Post-tem"po*ral, a. Etym: [Pref. post- + temporal.] (Anat.)  Situated back of the temporal bone or the temporal region of the skull; -- applied especially to a bone which usually connects the supraclavicle with the skull in the pectoral arch of fishes.  -- n.  A post-temporal bone. 

POSTTERTIARY:  Following, or more recent than, the Tertiary; Quaternary.  POST-TRAGUS Post"-tra`gus, n. Etym: [NL. See Post-, and Tragus.] (Anat.)  A ridge within and behind the tragus in the ear of some animals.  POST-TYMPANIC Post`-tym*pan"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. post- + tympanic.] (Anat.)  Situated behind the tympanum, or in the skull, behind the auditory meatus. 

POSTULANT:  One who makes a request or demand; hence, a candidate. 

POSTULATE:  The enunciation of a self-evident problem, in distinction from an axiom, which is the enunciation of a self-evident theorem. The distinction between a postulate and an axiom lies in this, -- that the latter is admitted to be self-evident, while the former may be agreed upon between two reasoners, and admitted by both, but not as proposition which it would be impossible to deny. Eng. Cyc. 

POSTULATE:  Postulated. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

POSTULATED:  Assumed without proof; as, a postulated inference. Sir T. Browne. 

POSTULATION:  The act of postulating, or that which is postulated; assumption; solicitation; suit; cause. 

POSTULATORY:  Of the nature of a postulate. Sir T. Browne. 

POSTULATUM:  A postulate. Addison. 

POSTUMOUS:  See Posthumous. [R.] 

POSTURAL:  Of or pertaining to posture. 

POSTURE:  To place in a particular position or attitude; to dispose the parts of, with reference to a particular purpose; as, to posture one's self; to posture a model. Howell. 

POSTURER:  One who postures. 

POSTZYGAPOPHYSIS:  A posterior zygapophysis. 

POSY:  A flower; a bouquet; a nosegay. "Bridegroom's posies." Spenser. We make a difference between suffering thistles to grow among us, and wearing them for posies. Swift. 

POT:  To place or inclose in pots; as: (a) To preserve seasoned in pots. "Potted fowl and fish." Dryden. (b) To set out or cover in pots; as, potted plants or bulbs. (c) To drain; as, to pot sugar, by taking it from the cooler, and placing it in hogsheads, etc., having perforated heads, through which the molasses drains off. B. Edwards. (d) (Billiards) To pocket. 

POT:  To tipple; to drink. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] It is less labor to plow than to pot it. Feltham. 

POTABLE:  Fit to be drunk; drinkable. "Water fresh and potable." Bacon.  -- n.  A potable liquid; a beverage. "Useful in potables." J. Philips. 

POTABLENESS:  The quality of being drinkable. 

POTAGE:  See Pottage. 

POTAGER:  A porringer. [Obs.] Grew. 

POTAGRO:  See Potargo. 

POTALE:  The refuse from a grain distillery, used to fatten swine. 

POTAMIAN:  A river tortoise; one of a group of tortoises (Potamites, or Trionychoidea) having a soft shell, webbed feet, and a sharp beak. See Trionyx. 

POTAMOGRAPHY:  An account or description of rivers; potamology. 

POTAMOLOGY:  A scientific account or discussion of rivers; a treatise on rivers; potamography. 

POTAMOSPONGIAE:  The fresh-water sponges. See Spongilla. 

POTANCE:  The stud in which the bearing for the lower pivot of the verge is made. 

POTARGO:  A kind of sauce or pickle. King. 

POTASHES:  Potash. [Obs.] 

POTASSAMIDE:  A yellowish brown substance obtained by heating potassium in ammonia. 

POTASSIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, potassium. 

POTASSIUM:  An Alkali element, occurring abundantly but always combined, as in the chloride, sulphate, carbonate, or silicate, in the minerals sylvite, kainite, orthoclase, muscovite, etc. Atomic weight 39.0. Symbol K (Kalium).  Note: It is reduced from the carbonate as a soft white metal, lighter than water, which oxidizes with the greatest readiness, and, to be preserved, must be kept under liquid hydrocarbons, as naphtha or kerosene. Its compounds are very important, being used in glass making, soap making, in fertilizers, and in many drugs and chemicals. Potassium permanganate, the salt KMnO4, crystallizing in dark red prisms having a greenish surface color, and dissolving in water with a beautiful purple red color; -- used as an oxidizer and disinfectant. The name chameleon mineral is applied to this salt and also to potassium manganate.  -- Potassium bitartrate. See Cream of tartar, under Cream. 

POTASSOXYL:  The radical KO, derived from, and supposed to exist in, potassium hydroxide and other compounds. 

POTATOR:  A drinker. [R.] Southey. 

POTATORY:  Of or pertaining to drinking. Ld. Lytton.  POT-AU-FEU Pot`-au`-feu", n. [F., lit., pot on the fire.] (Cookery)  A dish of broth, meat, and vegetables prepared by boiling in a pot, -- a dish esp. common among the French.  Grant Allen.  POT-BELLIED Pot"-bel`lied, a.  Having a protuberant belly, like the bottom of a pot.  POT-BELLY Pot"-bel`ly, n.  A protuberant belly. 

POTBOILER:  A term applied derisively to any literary or artistic work, and esp. a painting, done simply for money and the means of living. [Cant] 

POTBOY:  A boy who carries pots of ale, beer, etc.; a menial in a public house. 

POTCH:  To thrust; to push. [Obs.] "I 'll potch at him some way." Shak. 

POTCH:  See Poach, to cook. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

POTCHER:  One who, or that which, potches. Potcher engine (Paper Making), a machine in which washed rags are stirred in a bleaching solution. 

POTECARY:  An apothecary. [Obs.] 

POTEEN:  Whisky; especially, whisky illicitly distilled by the Irish peasantry. [Written also potheen, and potteen.] 

POTELOT:  Molybdenum sulphide. 

POTENCE:  Potency; capacity. [R.] Sir W. Hamilton. 

POTENCY:  The quality or state of being potent; physical or moral power; inherent strength; energy; ability to effect a purpose; capability; efficacy; influence. "Drugs of potency." Hawthorne. A place of potency and away o' the state. Shak. 

POTENT:  A staff or crutch. [Obs.]  3. (Her.)  One of the furs; a surface composed of patches which are supposed to represent crutch heads; they are always alternately argent and azure, unless otherwise specially mentioned. Counter potent (Her.), a fur differing from potent in the arrangement of the patches. 

POTENTACY:  Sovereignty. [Obs.] 

POTENTATE:  One who is potent; one who possesses great power or sway; a prince, sovereign, or monarch. The blessed and only potentate. 1 Tim. vi. 15. Cherub and seraph, potentates and thrones. Milton. 

POTENTIAL:  In the theory of gravitation, or of other forces acting in space, a function of the rectangular coordinates which determine the position of a point, such that its differential coefficients with respect to the coördinates are equal to the components of the force at the point considered; -- also called potential function, or force function. It is called also Newtonian potential when the force is directed to a fixed center and is inversely as the square of the distance from the center.  3. (Elec.)  The energy of an electrical charge measured by its power to do work; hence, the degree of electrification as referred to some standard, as that of the earth; electro-motive force. 

POTENTIALITY:  The quality or state of being potential; possibility, not actuality; inherent capability or disposition, not actually exhibited. 

POTENTIATE:  To render active or potent. Coleridge. 

POTENTIOMETER:  An instrument for measuring or comparing electrial potentials or electro-motive forces. 

POTENTIZE:  To render the latent power of (anything) available. Dunglison. 

POTENTLY:  With great force or energy; powerfully; efficaciously. "You are potently opposed." Shak. 

POTENTNESS:  The quality or state of being potent; powerfulness; potency; efficacy. 

POTESTATE:  A chief ruler; a potentate. [Obs.] Wyclif. "An irous potestate." Chaucer. 

POTESTATIVE:  Authoritative. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

POTHECARY:  An apothecary. [Obs.] 

POTHEEN:  See Poteen. 

POTHER:  Bustle; confusion; tumult; flutter; bother. [Written also potter, and pudder.] "What a pother and stir!" Oldham. "Coming on with a terrible pother." Wordsworth. 

POTHER:  To make a bustle or stir; to be fussy. 

POTHER:  To harass and perplex; to worry. "Pothers and wearies himself." Locke. 

POTHOLE:  A circular hole formed in the rocky beds of rivers by the grinding action of stones or gravel whirled round by the water in what was at first a natural depression of the rock. 

POTHOUSE:  An alehouse. T. Warton. 

POTICHE:  A vase with a separate cover, the body usually rounded or polygonal in plan with nearly vertical sides, a neck of smaller size, and a rounded shoulder.  POTICHOMANIA; POTICHOMANIE Po`ti*cho*ma"ni*a, Po`ti*cho*ma"nie, n. Etym: [F. potichomanie; potiche a porcelain vase + manie mania.]  The art or process of coating the inside of glass vessels with engravings or paintings, so as to give them the appearance of painted ware. 

POTION:  A draught; a dose; usually, a draught or dose of a liquid medicine. Shak. 

POTION:  To drug. [Obs.] Speed.  POT LACE Pot lace.  Lace whose pattern includes one or more representations of baskets or bowls from which flowers spring. 

POTLATCH:  Graphite, or black lead, often used on the bottoms of racing vessels to diminish friction. 

POTLID:  The lid or cover of a pot. Potlid valve, a valve covering a round hole or the end of a pipe or pump barrel, resembling a potlid in form. 

POTLUCK:  Whatever may chance to be in the pot, or may be provided for a meal. A woman whose potluck was always to be relied on. G. Eliot. To take potluck, to take what food may chance to be provided. 

POTOO:  A large South American goatsucker (Nyctibius grandis). 

POTOROO:  Any small kangaroo belonging to Hypsiprymnus, Bettongia, and allied genera, native of Australia and Tasmania. Called also kangaroo rat. 

POTPIE:  A meat pie which is boiled instead of being baked. 

POTPOURRI:  A medley or mixture. Specifically: (a) A ragout composed of different sorts of meats, vegetables, etc., cooked together. (b) A jar or packet of flower leaves, perfumes, and spices, used to scent a room. (c) A piece of music made up of different airs strung together; a medley. (d) A literary production composed of parts brought together without order or bond of connection.  POTSDAM GROUP Pots"dam group` (. (Geol.)  A subdivision of the Primordial or Cambrian period in American geology; -- so named from the sandstone of Potsdam, New York. See Chart of Geology.  POTSHARD; POTSHARE Pot"shard`, Pot"share`, n.  A potsherd. [Obs.] Spenser. 

POTSHERD:  A piece or fragment of a broken pot. Job ii. 8.  POT SHOT Pot shot.  Lit., a shot fired simply to fill the pot; hence, a shot fired at an animal or person when at rest or within easy range, or fired simply to kill, without reference to the rules of sport; a shot needling no special skill. 

POTSTONE:  A variety of steatite sometimes manufactured into culinary vessels. 

POTSURE:  Made confident by drink. [Obs.]  POT-SURE Pot"-sure` (-shur), a.  Made confident by drink. [Obs.] 

POTT:  A size of paper. See under Paper. 

POTTAGE:  A kind of food made by boiling vegetables or meat, or both together, in water, until soft; a thick soup or porridge. [Written also potage.] Chaucer. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils. Gen. xxv. 34. 

POTTAIN:  Old pot metal. [Obs.] Holland. 

POTTEEN:  See Poteen. 

POTTER:  The red-bellied terrapin. See Terrapin. Potter's asthma (Med.), emphysema of the lungs; -- so called because very prevalent among potters. Parkers.  -- Potter's clay. See under Clay.  -- Potter's field, a public burial place, especially in a city, for paupers, unknown persons, and criminals; -- so named from the field south of Jerusalem, mentioned in Matt. xxvii. 7.  -- Potter's ore. See Alquifou.  -- Potter's wheel, a horizontal revolving disk on which the clay is molded into form with the hands or tools. "My thoughts are whirled like a potter's wheel." Shak. Potter wasp (Zoöl.), a small solitary wasp (Eumenes fraternal) which constructs a globular nest of mud and sand in which it deposits insect larvæ, such as cankerworms, as food for its young. 

POTTER:  To poke; to push; also, to disturb; to confuse; to bother. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

POTTERN:  Of or pertaining to potters. Pottern ore, a species of ore which, from its aptness to vitrify like the glazing of potter's wares, the miners call by this name. Boyle. 

POTTO:  Caries of the vertebræ, frequently resulting in curvature of the spine and paralysis of the lower extremities; -- so named from Percival Pott, an English surgeon. Pott's fracture, a fracture of the lower end of the fibula, with displacement of the tibia. Dunglison. 

POTULENT:  Having the courage given by drink. Smollett.  POT-WALLOPER Pot"-wal`lop*er, n.  1. A voter in certain boroughs of England, where, before the passage of the reform bill of 1832, the qualification for suffrage was to have boiled (walloped) his own pot in the parish for six months.  2. One who cleans pots; a scullion. [Slang, U. S.] 

POUCHED:  See Pouncet box.  POUCH-MOUTHED Pouch"-mouthed`, a.  Having a pouch mouth; blobber-lipped. 

POUCHONG:  A superior kind of souchong tea. De Colange.  POUCH-SHELL Pouch"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  A small British and American pond snail (Bulinus hypnorum). 

POUDRE:  Dust; powder. [Obs.] Chaucer. Poudre marchant Etym: [see Merchant], a kind of flavoring powder used in the Middle Ages. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POUDRETTE:  A manure made from night soil, dried and mixed with charcoal, gypsum, etc.  POUF; POUFFE Pouf  Pouffe (poof), n. [Written also pouff.] [F. pouf. Cf. Puff, n.] Lit., a puff; specif.:  (a) A soft cushion, esp. one circular in shape and not, like a pilow, of bag form, or thin at the edges.  (b) A piece of furniture like an ottoman, generally circular and affording cushion seats on all sides. 

POULAINE:  A long pointed shoe. See Cracowes. 

POULARD:  A pullet from which the ovaries have been removed to produce fattening; hence, a fat pullet. 

POULDAVIS:  Same as Poledavy. [Obs.] 

POULDER:  Powder. [Obs.] 

POULDRON:  See Pauldron.  POULP; POULPE Poulp, Poulpe, n. Etym: [F. poulpe, fr. L. polypus. See Polyp.] (Zoöl.)  Same as Octopus. Musk poulp (Zoöl.), a Mediterranean octopod (Eledone moschata) which emits a strong odor of musk. 

POULT:  A young chicken, partridge, grouse, or the like. King. Chapman. Starling the heath poults or black game. R. Jefferise. 

POULTER:  A poulterer. [Obs.] Shak. 

POULTERER:  One who deals in poultry. 

POULTICE:  A soft composition, as of bread, bran, or a mucilaginous substance, to be applied to sores, inflamed parts of the body, etc.; a cataplasm. "Poultice relaxeth the pores." Bacon. 

POULTICE:  To apply a poultice to; to dress with a poultice. 

POULTIVE:  A poultice. [Obs.] W. Temple. 

POULTRY:  Domestic fowls reared for the table, or for their eggs or feathers, such as cocks and hens, capons, turkeys, ducks, and geese. 

POUNCE:  To sprinkle or rub with pounce; as, to pounce paper, or a pattern. 

POUNCE:  To fall suddenly and seize with the claws; -- with on or upon; as, a hawk pounces upon a chicken. Also used figuratively. Derision is never so agonizing as when it pounces on the wanderings of misguided sensibility. Jeffrey. 

POUNCED:  A box with a perforated lid, for sprinkling pounce, or for holding perfumes. Shak. 

POUND:  To make a jarring noise, as in running; as, the engine pounds. 

POUND:  A kind of net, having a large inclosure with a narrow entrance into which fish are directed by wings spreading outward. Pound covert, a pound that is close or covered over, as a shed.  -- Pound overt, a pound that is open overhead. 

POUND:  To confine in, or as in, a pound; to impound. Milton. 

POUNDAGE:  The sum allowed to a sheriff or other officer upon the amount realized by an execution; -- estimated in England, and formerly in the United States, at so much of the pound. Burrill. Bouvier. 

POUNDAGE:  To collect, as poundage; to assess, or rate, by poundage. [R.] 

POUNDAL:  A unit of force based upon the pound, foot, and second, being the force which, acting on a pound avoirdupois for one second, causes it to acquire by the of that time a velocity of one foot per second. It is about equal to the weight of half an ounce, and is 13,825 dynes.  POUND-BREACH Pound"-breach`, n.  The breaking of a public pound for releasing impounded animals. Blackstone. 

POUNDCAKE:  A kind of rich, sweet cake; -- so called from the ingredients being used by pounds, or in equal quantities. 

POUNDING:  The keeper of a pound. 

POUNDRATE:  A rate or proportion estimated at a certain amount for each pound; poundage. 

POUP:  See Powp. [Obs.] Chaucer.  POUPART'S LIGAMENT Pou*part's" lig"a*ment. (Anat.)  A ligament, of fascia, extending, in most mammals, from the ventral side of the ilium to near the symphysis of the pubic bones. 

POUPETON:  A puppet, or little baby. [Obs.] Palsgrave. 

POUR:  Poor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POUR:  To pore. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POUR:  To flow, pass, or issue in a stream, or as a stream; to fall continuously and abundantly; as, the rain pours; the people poured out of the theater. In the rude throng pour on with furious pace. Gay. 

POUR:  A stream, or something like a stream; a flood. [Colloq.] "A pour of rain." Miss Ferrier. 

POURELICHE:  Poorly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POURER:  One who pours. 

POURLIEU:  See Purlieu. 

POURPARLER:  A consultation preliminary to a treaty. 

POURPARTY:  A division; a divided share. To make pourparty, to divide and apportion lands previously held in common. 

POURPOINT:  A quilted military doublet or gambeson worn in the 14th and 15th centuries; also, a name for the doublet of the 16th and 17th centuries worn by civilians. 

POURPRESTURE:  See Purpresture. 

POURSUIVANT:  See Pursuivant. 

POURTRAY:  See Portray. 

POURVEYANCE:  See Purveyance. 

POUSSE:  Pulse; pease. [Obs.] Spenser.  POUSSE-CAFE Pousse"-ca`fé", n. [F., fr. pousser to push + café coffee.]  A drink served after coffee at dinner, usually one of several liqueurs, or cordials, of different specific gravities poured so as to remain separate in layers; hence, such a drink of cordials served at any time. 

POUSSETTE:  A movement, or part of a figure, in the contradance. Dickens. 

POUSSETTE:  To perform a certain movement in a dance. [R.] Tennyson. Down the middle, up again, poussette, and cross. J. & H. Smith.  POU STO Pou sto (poo sto; pou sto). [Gr. poy^ stw^ where I may stand; -- from the reputed saying of Archimedes, "Give me where I may stand and I will move the whole world with my steelyard."]  A place to stand upon; a locus standi; hence, a foundation or basis for operations. 

POUT:  The young of some birds, as grouse; a young fowl. Carew. 

POUT:  To shoot pouts. [Scot.] 

POUT:  To protrude. "Pouting lips." Dryden. 

POUT:  A sullen protrusion of the lips; a fit of sullenness. "Jack's in the pouts." J. & H. Smith. 

POUT:  The European whiting pout or bib. Eel pout. (Zoöl.) See Eelpout.  -- Horn pout, or Horned pout. (Zoöl.) See Bullhead (b). 

POUTER:  A variety of the domestic pigeon remarkable for the extent to which it is able to dilate its throat and breast. 

POUTING:  Childish sullenness. 

POUTINGLY:  In a pouting, or a sullen, manner. 

POVERT:  Poverty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POVERTY:  A small British lake whitefish (Coregonus clupeoides, or C. ferus); -- called also gwyniad and lake herring. 

POWDERED:  Same as Semé. Walpole. 

POWDERFLASK:  A flask in which gunpowder is carried, having a charging tube at the end. 

POWDERHORN:  A horn in which gunpowder is carried. 

POWDERING:  a. & n. from Powder, v. t. Powdering tub. (a) A tub or vessel in which meat is corned or salted. (b) A heated tub in which an infected lecher was placed for cure. [Obs.] Shak. 

POWDERMILL:  A mill in which gunpowder is made.  POWDER-POSTED Pow"der-post`ed, a.  Affected with dry rot; reduced to dust by rot. See Dry rot, under Dry. [U.S.] 

POWDIKE:  A dike a marsh or fen. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

POWDRY:  See Powdery. 

POWER:  Same as Poor, the fish. 

POWER:  The product arising from the multiplication of a number into itself; as, a square is the second power, and a cube is third power, of a number.  10. ( (Metaph.)  Mental or moral ability to act; one of the faculties which are possessed by the mind or soul; as, the power of thinking, reasoning, judging, willing, fearing, hoping, etc. I. Watts. The guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprise of my powers, drove the grossness . . . into a received belief. Shak.  11. (Optics)  The degree to which a lens, mirror, or any optical instrument, magnifies; in the telescope, and usually in the microscope, the number of times it multiplies, or augments, the apparent diameter of an object; sometimes, in microscopes, the number of times it multiplies the apparent surface.  12. (Law)  An authority enabling a person to dispose of an interest vested either in himself or in another person; ownership by appointment. Wharton.  13. Hence, vested authority to act in a given case; as, the business was referred to a committee with power.  Note: Power may be predicated of inanimate agents, like the winds and waves, electricity and magnetism, gravitation, etc., or of animal and intelligent beings; and when predicated of these beings, it may indicate physical, mental, or moral ability or capacity. Mechanical powers. See under Mechanical.  -- Power loom, or Power press. See Def. 8 (d), note.  -- Power of attorney. See under Attorney.  -- Power of a point (relative to a given curve) (Geom.), the result of substituting the coördinates of any point in that expression which being put equal to zero forms the equation of the curve; as, x2 + y2 - 100 is the power of the point x, y, relative to the circle x2 + y2 - 100 = 0. 

POWERFUL:  Large; capacious; -- said of veins of ore.  Syn.  -- Mighty; strong; potent; forcible; efficacious; energetic; intense.  -- Pow"er*ful*ly, adv.  -- Pow"er*ful*ness, n. 

POWERLESS:  Destitute of power, force, or energy; weak; impotent; not able to produce any effect.  -- Pow"er*less*ly, adv.  -- Pow"er*less*ness, n. 

POWLDRON:  Same as Pauldron. 

POWP:  See Poop, v. i. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

POWTER:  See Pouter. 

POX:  Strictly, a disease by pustules or eruptions of any kind, but chiefly or wholly restricted to three or four diseases, -- the smallpox, the chicken pox, and the vaccine and the venereal diseases.  Note: Pox, when used without an epithet, as in imprecations, formerly signified smallpox; but it now signifies syphilis. 

POX:  To infect with the pox, or syphilis. 

POYNADO:  A poniard. [Obs.] Lyly.  POYND; POYNDER Poynd, v., Poynd"er (, n.  See Poind, Poinder.  POY NETTE Poy nette", n. Etym: [Cf. Point.]  A bodkin. [Obs.] 

POYNTEL:  Paving or flooring made of small squares or lozenges set diagonally. [Formerly written pointal.] 

POYOU:  A South American armadillo (Dasypus sexcinctus). Called also sixbanded armadillo. 

POZE:  See 5th Pose.  POZZUOLANA; POZZOLANA Poz`zu*o*la"na, Poz`zo*la"*na, n. Etym: [It.]  Volcanic ashes from Pozzuoli, in Italy, used in the manufacture of a kind of mortar which hardens under water. 

PRAAM:  A flat-bottomed boat or lighter, -- used in Holland and the Baltic, and sometimes armed in case of war. [Written also pram, and prame.] 

PRACTICABILITY:  The quality or state of being practicable; practicableness; feasibility. "The practicability of such a project." Stewart. 

PRACTICALITY:  The quality or state of being practical; practicalness. 

PRACTICALIZE:  To render practical. [R.] "Practicalizing influences." J. S. Mill. 

PRACTICALLY:  1. In a practical way; not theoretically; really; as, to look at things practically; practically worthless.  2. By means of practice or use; by experience or experiment; as, practically wise or skillful; practically acquainted with a subject.  3. In practice or use; as, a medicine practically safe; theoretically wrong, but practically right. 4. Almost. 

PRACTICALNESS:  Same as Practicality. 

PRACTICE:  A easy and concise method of applying the rules of arithmetic to questions which occur in trade and business.  9. (Law)  The form, manner, and order of conducting and carrying on suits and prosecutions through their various stages, according to the principles of law and the rules laid down by the courts. Bouvier.  Syn.  -- Custom; usage; habit; manner. 

PRACTICIAN:  One who is acquainted with, or skilled in, anything by practice; a practitioner. 

PRACTICK:  Practice. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PRACTICO:  A guide. [Cuba & Phil. Islands]  D. C. Worcester. 

PRACTISANT:  An agent or confederate in treachery. [Obs.] Shak. 

PRACTISE:  See Practice.  Note: The analogy of the English language requires that the noun and verb which are pronounced alike should agree in spelling. Thus we have notice (n. & v.), noticed, noticing, noticer; poultice (n. & v.); apprentice (n. & v.); office (n. & v.), officer (n.); lattice (n.), latticed (a.); benefice (n.), beneficed (a.), etc. Cf. sacrifice (surmise (promise (compromise (advice (advise (device (devise ( 

PRACTISOUR:  A practitioner. [Obs.] 

PRACTIVE:  Doing; active. [Obs.] Sylvester.  -- Prac"tive*ly, adv. [Obs.] The preacher and the people both, Then practively did thrive. Warner. 

PRAD:  A horse. [Colloq. Eng.]  PRAE- Præ-.  A prefix. See Pre-. 

PRAECAVA:  The superior vena cava.  -- Præ"ca`val, a. B. G. Wilder. 

PRAECOCES:  A division of birds including those whose young are able to run about when first hatched. 

PRAECOCIAL:  Of or pertaining to the Præcoces. 

PRAECOGNITA:  This previously known, or which should be known in order to understand something else. 

PRAECOMMISSURE:  A transverse commissure in the anterior part of the third ventricle of the brain; the anterior cerebral commissure. 

PRAECORACOID:  See Precoracoid. 

PRAECORDIA:  The front part of the thoracic region; the epigastrium. 

PRAECORDIAL:  Same as Precordial. 

PRAECORNU:  The anterior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain. B. G. Wilder. 

PRAEDIAL:  See Predial. 

PRAEFLORATION:  Same as Prefloration. Gray. 

PRAEFOLIATION:  Same as Prefoliation. Gray. 

PRAEMAXILLA:  See Premaxilla. 

PRAEMOLAR:  See Premolar. 

PRAEMORSE:  Same as Premorse. 

PRAEMUNITORY:  See Premunitory. 

PRAENARES:  The anterior nares. See Nares. B. G. Wilder. 

PRAENASAL:  Same as Prenasal. 

PRAENOMEN:  The first name of a person, by which individuals of the same family were distinguished, answering to our Christian name, as Caius, Lucius, Marcus, etc. 

PRAENOMINICAL:  Of or pertaining to a prænomen. [Obs.] M. A. Lower. 

PRAEOPERCULUM:  Same as Preoperculum.  -- Præ`o*per"cu*lar, a.  PRAEORAL; PRAEPUBIS; PRAESCAPULA; PRAESCUTUM; PRAESTERNUM Præ*o"ral, n., Præ*pu"bis, n., Præ*scap"u*la, n., Præ*scu"tum, n., Præ*ster"num, n.  Same as Preoral, Prepubis, Prescapula, etc.  PRAETER- Præ"ter-.  A prefix. See Preter-. 

PRAETERIST:  See Preterist. 

PRAETERMIT:  See Pretermit. 

PRAETEXTA:  A white robe with a purple border, worn by a Roman boy before he was entitled to wear the toga virilis, or until about the completion of his fourteenth year, and by girls until their marriage. It was also worn by magistrates and priests. 

PRAETOR:  See Pretor. 

PRAETORES:  A division of butterflies including the satyrs. 

PRAETORIAN:  See Pretorian. 

PRAETORIUM:  See Pretorium. 

PRAEZYGAPOPHYSIS:  Same as Prezygapophysis.  PRAGMATIC; PRAGMATICAL Prag*mat"ic, Prag*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. pragmaticus busy, active, skilled in business, especially in law and state affairs, systematic, Gr. pragmatique. See Practical.]  1. Of or pertaining to business or to affairs; of the nature of business; practical; material; businesslike in habit or manner. The next day . . . I began to be very pragmatical. Evelyn. We can not always be contemplative, diligent, or pragmatical, abroad; but have need of some delightful intermissions. Milton. Low, pragmatical, earthly views of the gospel. Hare.  2. Busy; specifically, busy in an objectionable way; officious; fussy and positive; meddlesome. "Pragmatical officers of justice." Sir W. Scott. The fellow grew so pragmatical that he took upon him the government of my whole family. Arbuthnot.  3. Philosophical; dealing with causes, reasons, and effects, rather than with details and circumstances; -- said of literature. "Pragmatic history." Sir W. Hamilton. "Pragmatic poetry." M. Arnold. Pragmatic sanction, a solemn ordinance or decree issued by the head or legislature of a state upon weighty matters; -- a term derived from the Byzantine empire. In European history, two decrees under this name are particularly celebrated. One of these, issued by Charles VII. of France, A. D. 1438, was the foundation of the liberties of the Gallican church; the other, issued by Charles VI. of Germany, A. D. 1724, settled his hereditary dominions on his eldest daughter, the Archduchess Maria Theresa. 

PRAGMATICALLY:  In a pragmatical manner. 

PRAGMATICALNESS:  The quality or state of being pragmatical. 

PRAGMATISM:  The quality or state of being pragmatic; in literature, the pragmatic, or philosophical, method. The narration of this apparently trifling circumstance belongs to the pragmatism of the history. A. Murphy. 

PRAGMATIST:  One who is pragmatic. 

PRAGMATIZE:  To consider, represent, or embody (something unreal) as fact; to materialize. [R.] "A pragmatized metaphor." Tylor. 

PRAIRIAL:  The ninth month of the French Republican calendar, which dated from September 22, 1792. It began May, 20, and ended June 18. See Vendemiaire. 

PRAIRIE:  Illinois; -- a nickname. 

PRAISABLE:  Fit to be praised; praise-worthy; laudable; commendable. Wyclif (2 Tim. ii. 15). 

PRAISABLY:  In a praisable manner. 

PRAISEFUL:  Praiseworthy. [Obs.] 

PRAISEFUL:  Praiseworthy. [Obs.] 

PRAISELESS:  Without praise or approbation.  PRAISE-MEETING Praise"-meet`*ing, n.  A religious service mainly in song. [Local, U. S.] 

PRAISEMENT:  Appraisement. [Obs.] 

PRAISEWORTHILY:  In a praiseworthy manner. Spenser. 

PRAISEWORTHINESS:  The quality or state of being praiseworthy. 

PRAISEWORTHY:  Worthy of praise or applause; commendable; as, praiseworthy action; he was praiseworthy. Arbuthnot. 

PRAKRIT:  Any one of the popular dialects descended from, or akin to, Sanskrit; -- in distinction from the Sanskrit, which was used as a literary and learned language when no longer spoken by the people. Pali is one of the Prakrit dialects. 

PRAKRITIC:  Pertaining to Prakrit. 

PRALINE:  A confection made of nut kernels, usually of almonds, roasted in boiling sugar until brown and crisp.  Bonbons, pralines, . . . saccharine, crystalline substances of all kinds and colors. Du Maurier. 

PRALLTRILLER:  A melodic embellishment consisting of the quick alternation of a principal tone with an auxiliary tone above it, usually the next of the scale; --called also the inverted mordente.  PRAM; PRAME Pram, Prame, n. (Naut.)  See Praam. 

PRANCER:  A horse which prances. Then came the captain . . . upon a brave prancer. Evelyn. 

PRANDIAL:  Of or pertaining to a repast, especially to dinner. 

PRANGOS:  A genus of umbelliferous plants, one species of which (P. pabularia), found in Thibet, Cashmere, Afghanistan, etc., has been used as fodder for cattle. It has decompound leaves with very long narrow divisions, and a highly fragrant smell resembling that of new clover hay. 

PRANK:  To adorn in a showy manner; to dress or equip ostentatiously; - - often followed by up; as, to prank up the body. See Prink. In sumptuous tire she joyed herself to prank. Spenser. 

PRANK:  To make ostentatious show. White houses prank where once were huts. M. Arnold. 

PRANK:  A gay or sportive action; a ludicrous, merry, or mischievous trick; a caper; a frolic. Spenser. The harpies . . . played their accustomed pranks. Sir W. Raleigh. His pranks have been too broad to bear with. Shak. 

PRANK:  Full of gambols or tricks. [Obs.] 

PRANKER:  One who dresses showily; a prinker. "A pranker or a dancer." Burton. 

PRANKISH:  Full of pranks; frolicsome. 

PRASE:  A variety of cryptocrystalline of a leek-green color.  PRASEO- Pra"se*o-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form signifying green; as, praseocobalt, a green variety of cobalt. 

PRASEODYMIUM:  An elementary substance, one of the constituents of didymium; - - so called from the green color of its salts. Symbol Ps. Atomic weight 143.6. 

PRASEOLITE:  A variety of altered iolite of a green color and greasy luster. 

PRASINOUS:  Grass-green; clear, lively green, without any mixture. Lindley. 

PRASOID:  Resembling prase. 

PRATE:  To talk much and to little purpose; to be loquacious; to speak foolishly; to babble. To prate and talk for life and honor. Shak. And make a fool presume to prate of love. Dryden. 

PRATE:  To utter foolishly; to speak without reason or purpose; to chatter, or babble. What nonsense would the fool, thy master, prate, When thou, his knave, canst talk at such a rate ! Dryden. 

PRATE:  Talk to little purpose; trifling talk; unmeaning loquacity. Sick of tops, and poetry, and prate. Pope. 

PRATEFUL:  Talkative. [R.] W. Taylor. 

PRATER:  One who prates. Shak. 

PRATIC:  See Pratique. 

PRATINCOLE:  Any bird of the Old World genus Glareola, or family Glareolidæ, allied to the plovers. They have long, pointed wings and a forked tail. 

PRATINGLY:  With idle talk; with loquacity. 

PRATIQUE:  Primarily, liberty of converse; intercourse; hence, a certificate, given after compliance with quarantine regulations, permitting a ship to land passengers and crew; -- a term used particularly in the south of Europe.  2. Practice; habits. [Obs.] "One of English education and pratique." R. North. 

PRATTLE:  To talk much and idly; to prate; hence, to talk lightly and artlessly, like a child; to utter child's talk. 

PRATTLE:  To utter as prattle; to babble; as, to prattle treason. Addison. 

PRATTLE:  Trifling or childish tattle; empty talk; loquacity on trivial subjects; prate; babble. Mere prattle, without practice. Shak. 

PRATTLEMENT:  Prattle. [R.] Jeffrey. 

PRATTLER:  One who prattles. Herbert. 

PRAVITY:  Deterioration; degeneracy; corruption; especially, moral crookedness; moral perversion; perverseness; depravity; as, the pravity of human nature. "The pravity of the will." South. 

PRAWN:  Any one of numerous species of large shrimplike Crustacea having slender legs and long antennæ. They mostly belong to the genera Pandalus, Palæmon, Palæmonetes, and Peneus, and are much used as food. The common English prawn in Palæmon serratus.  Note: The name is often applied to any large shrimp. 

PRAXINOSCOPE:  An instrument, similar to the phenakistoscope, for presenting to view, or projecting upon a screen, images the natural motions of real objects. 

PRAY:  See Pry. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PRAY:  To make request with earnestness or zeal, as for something desired; to make entreaty or supplication; to offer prayer to a deity or divine being as a religious act; specifically, to address the Supreme Being with adoration, confession, supplication, and thanksgiving. And to his goddess pitously he preyde. Chaucer. When thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Matt. vi. 6. I pray, or (by ellipsis) Pray, I beg; I request; I entreat you; -- used in asking a question, making a request, introducing a petition, etc.; as, Pray, allow me to go. I pray, sir. why am I beaten Shak.  Syn.  -- To entreat; supplicate; beg; implore; invoke; beseech; petition. 

PRAYER:  One who prays; a supplicant. 

PRAYERFUL:  Given to prayer; praying much or often; devotional. "The prayerful man." J. S. Blackie.  -- Prayer"ful*ly, adv.  -- Prayer"ful*ness, n. 

PRAYERLESS:  Not using prayer; habitually neglecting prayer to God; without prayer. "The next time you go prayerless to bed." Baxter.  -- Prayer"less*ly, adv.  -- Prayer"less*ness, n. 

PRAYING:  a. & n. from Pray, v. Praying insect, locust, or mantis (Zoöl.), a mantis, especially Mantis religiosa. See Mantis.  -- Praying machine, or Praying wheel, a wheel on which prayers are pasted by Buddhist priests, who then put the wheel in rapid revolution. Each turn in supposed to have the efficacy of an oral repetition of all the prayers on the wheel. Sometimes it is moved by a stream. 

PRAYINGLY:  With supplication to God.  PRE- Pre-. Etym: [L. prae, adv. & prep., before, akin to pro, and to E. for, prep.: cf. F. pré-. See Pro-, and cf. Prior.]  A prefix denoting priority (of time, place, or rank); as, precede, to go before; precursor, a forerunner; prefix, to fix or place before; preëminent eminent before or above others. Pre- is sometimes used intensively, as in prepotent, very potent. [Written also præ-.] 

PREACCUSATION:  Previous accusation. 

PREACE:  Press. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PREACH:  A religious discourse. [Obs.] Hooker. 

PREACHERSHIP:  The office of a preacher. "The preachership of the Rolls." Macaulay. 

PREACHIFY:  To discourse in the manner of a preacher. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

PREACHING:  The act of delivering a religious discourse; the art of sermonizing; also, a sermon; a public religious discourse; serious, earnest advice. Milner. Preaching cross, a cross, sometimes surmounting a pulpit, erected out of doors to designate a preaching place.  -- Preaching friars. See Dominican. 

PREACHMAN:  A preacher; -- so called in contempt. [Obs.] Howell. 

PREACHMENT:  A religious harangue; a sermon; -- used derogatively. Shak. 

PREACQUAINT:  To acquaint previously or beforehand. Fielding. 

PREACQUAINTANCE:  Previous acquaintance or knowledge. Harris. 

PREACT:  To act beforehand; to perform previously. 

PREACTION:  Previous action. 

PREADAMIC:  Prior to Adam. 

PREADAMITIC:  Existing or occurring before Adam; preadamic; as, preadamitic periods. 

PREADJUSTMENT:  Previous adjustment. 

PREADMINISTRATION:  Previous administration. Bp. Pearson. 

PREADMISSION:  Lit., previous admission; specif. (Engin.),  admission, as of steam, to the engine cylinder before the back stroke is completed, thus increasing the cushioning. 

PREADMONISH:  To admonish previously. 

PREADMONITION:  Previous warning or admonition; forewarning. 

PREADVERTISE:  To advertise beforehand; to preannounce publicly. 

PREAMBLE:  A introductory portion; an introduction or preface, as to a book, document, etc.; specifically, the introductory part of a statute, which states the reasons and intent of the law. 

PREAMBLE:  To make a preamble to; to preface; to serve as a preamble. [R.] Feltham. Milton. 

PREAMBULARY:  Of or pertaining to a preamble; introductory; contained or provided for in a preamble. "A preambulary tax." [R.] Burke. 

PREAMBULATE:  To walk before. [R.] Jordan. 

PREAMBULATORY:  Preceding; going before; introductory. [R.] Simon Magus had preambulatory impieties. Jer. Taylor. 

PREAMBULOUS:  See Perambulatory. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PREANNOUNCE:  To announce beforehand. Coleridge. 

PREANTENULTIMATE:  Being or indicating the fourth syllable from the end of a word, or that before the antepenult. 

PREAORTIC:  In front, or on the ventral side, of the aorta. 

PREAPPOINT:  To appoint previously, or beforehand. Carlyle. 

PREAPPOINTMENT:  Previous appointment. 

PREAPPREHENSION:  An apprehension or opinion formed before examination or knowledge. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PREARM:  To forearm. [R.] 

PREARRANGE:  To arrange beforehand. 

PREASE:  To press; to crowd. [Obs.] -- n.  A press; a crowd. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PREASSURANCE:  Previous assurance. Coleridge. 

PREATAXIC:  Occurring before the symptom ataxia has developed; -- applied to the early symptoms of locomotor ataxia. 

PREAUDIENCE:  Precedence of rank at the bar among lawyers. Blackstone. 

PREAXIAL:  Situated in front of any transverse axis in the body of an animal; anterior; cephalic; esp., in front, or on the anterior, or cephalic (that is, radial or tibial) side of the axis of a limb. 

PREBENDAL:  Of or pertaining to a prebend; holding a prebend; as, a prebendal priest or stall. Chesterfield. 

PREBENDARYSHIP:  The office of a prebendary. 

PREBENDATE:  To invest with the office of prebendary; to present to a prebend. [Obs.] Grafton. 

PREBENDSHIP:  A prebendaryship. [Obs.] Foxe. 

PREBRONCHIAL:  Situated in front of the bronchus; -- applied especially to an air sac on either side of the esophagus of birds. 

PRECALCULATE:  To calculate or determine beforehand; to prearrange. Masson. 

PRECANT:  One who prays. [R.] Coleridge. 

PRECATION:  The act of praying; supplication; entreaty. Cotton.  PRECATIVE; PRECATORY Pre"ca*tive, Pre"ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. precativus, precatorius, fr. precari to pray. See Precarious.]  Suppliant; beseeching. Bp. Hopkins. Precatory words (Law), words of recommendation, request, entreaty, wish, or expectation, employed in wills, as distinguished from express directions; -- in some cases creating a trust. Jarman. 

PRECAUTIONAL:  Precautionary. 

PRECAUTIONARY:  Of or pertaining to precaution, or precautions; as, precautionary signals. 

PRECAUTIOUS:  Taking or using precaution; precautionary.  -- Pre*cau"tious*ly, adv.  -- Pre*cau"*tious*ness, n. 

PRECEDANEOUS:  Preceding; antecedent; previous. [Obs.] Hammond. 

PRECEDENT:  Going before; anterior; preceding; antecedent; as, precedent services. Shak. "A precedent injury." Bacon. Condition precedent (Law), a condition which precede the vesting of an estate, or the accruing of a right. 

PRECEDENT:  A judicial decision which serves as a rule for future determinations in similar or analogous cases; an authority to be followed in courts of justice; forms of proceeding to be followed in similar cases. Wharton.  Syn.  -- Example; antecedent.  -- Precedent, Example. An example in a similar case which may serve as a rule or guide, but has no authority out of itself. A precedent is something which comes down to us from the past with the sanction of usage and of common consent. We quote examples in literature, and precedents in law. 

PRECEDENTED:  Having a precedent; authorized or sanctioned by an example of a like kind. Walpole. 

PRECEDENTIAL:  Of the nature of a precedent; having force as an example for imitation; as, precedential transactions. All their actions in that time are not precedential to warrant posterity. Fuller. 

PRECEDENTLY:  Beforehand; antecedently. 

PRECEDING:  In the direction toward which stars appear to move. See Following, 2. 

PRECEL:  To surpass; to excel; to exceed. [Obs.] Howell.  PRECELLENCE; PRECELLENCY Pre*cel"lence, Pre*cel"len*cy, n. Etym: [L. praecellentia, from praecellens, p. pr. of praecellere to excel, surpass: cf. OF. precellence.]  Excellence; superiority. [Obs.] Sheldon. 

PRECELLENT:  Excellent; surpassing. [Obs.] Holland. 

PRECENTOR:  A leader of a choir; a directing singer. Specifically: (a) The leader of the choir in a cathedral; -- called also the chanter or master of the choir. Hook. (b) The leader of the congregational singing in Scottish and other churches. 

PRECENTORSHIP:  The office of a precentor. 

PRECEPT:  A command in writing; a species of writ or process. Burrill.  Syn.  -- Commandment; injunction; mandate; law; rule; direction; principle; maxim. See Doctrine. 

PRECEPT:  To teach by precepts. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PRECEPTIAL:  Preceptive. [Obs.] [Passion] would give preceptial medicine to rage. Shak. 

PRECEPTION:  A precept. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

PRECEPTIVE:  Containing or giving precepts; of the nature of precepts; didactic; as, the preceptive parts of the Scriptures. The lesson given us here is preceptive to us. L'Estrange. 

PRECEPTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a preceptor. 

PRECEPTORY:  Preceptive. "A law preceptory." Anderson (1573). 

PRECEPTORY:  A religious house of the Knights Templars, subordinate to the temple or principal house of the order in London. See Commandery, n., 2. 

PRECEPTRESS:  A woman who is the principal of a school; a female teacher. 

PRECESSION:  The act of going before, or forward. Lunisolar precession. (Astron.) See under Lunisolar.  -- Planetary precession, that part of the precession of the equinoxes which depends on the action of the planets alone.  -- Precession of the equinoxes (Astron.), the slow backward motion of the equinoctial points along the ecliptic, at the rate of 50.2" annually, caused by the action of the sun, moon, and planets, upon the protuberant matter about the earth's equator, in connection with its diurnal rotation; -- so called because either equinox, owing to its westerly motion, comes to the meridian sooner each day than the point it would have occupied without the motion of precession, and thus precedes that point continually with reference to the time of transit and motion. 

PRECESSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to pression; as, the precessional movement of the equinoxes. 

PRECESSOR:  A predecessor. [Obs.] Fuller. 

PRECIEUSE:  An affected woman of polite society, esp. one of the literary women of the French salons of the 17th century. 

PRECIOSITY:  Preciousness; something precious. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PRECIOUSLY:  In a precious manner; expensively; extremely; dearly. Also used ironically. 

PRECIOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being precious; costliness; dearness. 

PRECIPE:  See Præcipe, and Precept. 

PRECIPIENT:  Commanding; directing. 

PRECIPITABILITY:  The quality or state of being precipitable. 

PRECIPITABLE:  Capable of being precipitated, or cast to the bottom, as a substance in solution. See Precipitate, n. (Chem.)  PRECIPITANCE; PRECIPITANCY Pre*cip"i*tance, Pre*cip"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [From Precipitant.]  The quality or state of being precipitant, or precipitate; headlong hurry; excessive or rash haste in resolving, forming an opinion, or executing a purpose; precipitation; as, the precipitancy of youth. "Precipitance of judgment." I. Watts. 

PRECIPITANT:  Any force or reagent which causes the formation of a precipitate. 

PRECIPITANTLY:  With rash or foolish haste; in headlong manner. Milton. 

PRECIPITANTNESS:  The quality or state of being precipitant; precipitation. 

PRECIPITATE:  An insoluble substance separated from a solution in a concrete state by the action of some reagent added to the solution, or of some force, such as heat or cold. The precipitate may fall to the bottom (whence the name), may be diffused through the solution, or may float at or near the surface. Red precipitate (Old. Chem), mercuric oxide (HgO) a heavy red crystalline powder obtained by heating mercuric nitrate, or by heating mercury in the air. Prepared in the latter manner, it was the precipitate per se of the alchemists.  -- White precipitate (Old Chem.) (a) A heavy white amorphous powder (NH2.HgCl) obtained by adding ammonia to a solution of mercuric chloride or corrosive sublimate; -- formerly called also infusible white precipitate, and now amido-mercuric chloride. (b) A white crystalline substance obtained by adding a solution of corrosive sublimate to a solution of sal ammoniac (ammonium chloride); -- formerly called also fusible white precipitate. 

PRECIPITATE:  To separate from a solution, or other medium, in the form of a precipitate; as, water precipitates camphor when in solution with alcohol. The light vapor of the preceding evening had been precipitated by the cold. W. Irving. 

PRECIPITATE:  To separate from a solution as a precipitate. See Precipitate, n. 

PRECIPITATELY:  In a precipitate manner; headlong; hastily; rashly. Swift. 

PRECIPITATION:  The act or process from a solution. 

PRECIPITATOR:  One who precipitates, or urges on with vehemence or rashness. Hammond. 

PRECIPITIOUS:  Precipitous. [Obs.] -- Prec`i*pi"tious*ly, adv. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PRECIS:  A concise or abridged statement or view; an abstract; a summary. 

PRECISIANISM:  The quality or state of being a precisian; the practice of a precisian. Milton. 

PRECISIANIST:  A precisian. 

PRECISION:  The quality or state of being precise; exact limitation; exactness; accuracy; strict conformity to a rule or a standard; definiteness. I have left out the utmost precisions of fractions. Locke.  Syn.  -- Preciseness; exactness; accuracy; nicety.  -- Precision, Preciseness. Precision is always used in a good sense; as, precision of thought or language; precision in military evolutions. Preciseness is sometimes applied to persons or their conduct in a disparaging sense, and precise is often used in the same way. 

PRECISIVE:  Cutting off; (Logic) exactly limiting by cutting off all that is not absolutely relative to the purpose; as, precisive censure; precisive abstraction. I. Watts. 

PRECLUSION:  The act of precluding, or the state of being precluded; a shutting out. 

PRECLUSIVE:  Shutting out; precluding, or tending to preclude; hindering.  -- Pre*clu"sive*ly, adv. 

PRECOCE:  Precocious. [Obs.] 

PRECOCES:  Same as Præcoces. 

PRECOCIOUSLY:  In a precocious manner.  PRECOCIOUSNESS; PRECOCITY Pre*co"cious*ness, Pre*coc"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. précocité.]  The quality or state of being precocious; untimely ripeness; premature development, especially of the mental powers; forwardness. Saucy precociousness in learning. Bp. Mannyngham. That precocity which sometimes distinguishes uncommon genius. Wirt. 

PRECOETANEAN:  One contemporary with, but older than, another. [Obs.] Fuller. 

PRECOGITATE:  To cogitate beforehand. [R.] Sherwood. 

PRECOGITATION:  Previous cogitation. [R.] Bailey. 

PRECOGNITION:  A preliminary examination of a criminal case with reference to a prosecution. Erskine. 

PRECOGNIZABLE:  Cognizable beforehand. 

PRECOGNOSCE:  To examine beforehand, as witnesses or evidence. A committee of nine precognoscing the chances. Masson. 

PRECOLLECTION:  A collection previously made. [R.] 

PRECOMPOSE:  To compose beforehand. Johnson. 

PRECONCEIT:  An opinion or notion formed beforehand; a preconception. Hooker. 

PRECONCEIVE:  To conceive, or form an opinion of, beforehand; to form a previous notion or idea of. In a dead plain the way seemeth the longer, because the eye hath preconceived it shorter than the truth. Bacon. 

PRECONCEPTION:  The act of preconceiving; conception or opinion previously formed. 

PRECONCERT:  To concert or arrange beforehand; to settle by previous agreement. 

PRECONCERT:  Something concerted or arranged beforehand; a previous agreement. 

PRECONCERTED:  Previously arranged; agreed upon beforehand.  -- Pre`con*cert"ed*ly, adv.  -- Pre`con*cert"ed*ness, n. 

PRECONCERTION:  The act of preconcerting; preconcert. Dr. T. Dwight. 

PRECONDEMN:  To condemn beforehand.  -- Pre*con`dem*na"tion, n. 

PRECONDITION:  A previous or antecedent condition; a preliminary condition. 

PRECONFORM:  To conform by way anticipation. De Quincey. 

PRECONFORMITY:  Anticipative or antecedent conformity. Coleridge. 

PRECONIZATE:  To proclaim; to publish; also, to summon; to call. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 

PRECONIZATION:  A formal approbation by the pope of a person nominated to an ecclesiastical dignity. Addis & Arnold. 

PRECONIZE:  To approve by preconization. 

PRECONQUER:  To conquer in anticipation. [R.] Fuller. 

PRECONSCIOUS:  Of or pertaining to a state before consciousness. 

PRECONSENT:  A previous consent. 

PRECONSIGN:  To consign beforehand; to make a previous consignment of. 

PRECONSOLIDATED:  Consolidated beforehand. 

PRECONSTITUTE:  To constitute or establish beforehand. 

PRECONTRACT:  To contract, engage, or stipulate previously. 

PRECONTRACT:  To make a previous contract or agreement. Ayliffe. 

PRECONTRACT:  A contract preceding another; especially (Law),  a contract of marriage which, according to the ancient law, rendered void a subsequent marriage solemnized in violation of it. Abbott. 

PRECONTRIVE:  To contrive or plan beforehand. 

PRECORACOID:  The anterior part of the coracoid (often closely united with the clavicle) in the shoulder girdle of many reptiles and amphibians. 

PRECORDIAL:  Situated in front of the heart; of or pertaining to the præcordia. 

PRECRURAL:  Situated in front of the leg or thigh; as, the precrural glands of the horse. 

PRECURRER:  A precursor. [Obs.] Shak. 

PRECURSE:  A forerunning. [Obs.] Shak. 

PRECURSIVE:  Preceding; introductory; precursory. "A deep precursive sound." Coleridge. 

PRECURSOR:  One who, or that which, precedes an event, and indicates its approach; a forerunner; a harbinger. Evil thoughts are the invisible, airy precursors of all the storms and tempests of the soul. Buckminster.  Syn.  -- Predecessor; forerunner; harbinger; messenger; omen; sign. 

PRECURSORSHIP:  The position or condition of a precursor. Ruskin. 

PRECURSORY:  Preceding as a precursor or harbinger; indicating something to follow; as, precursory symptoms of a fever. 

PRECURSORY:  An introduction. [Obs.] 

PREDACEAN:  A carnivorous animal. Kirby. 

PREDACEOUS:  Living by prey; predatory. Derham. 

PREDAL:  Of or pertaining to prey; plundering; predatory. [R.] Boyse. 

PREDATE:  To date anticipation; to affix to (a document) an earlier than the actual date; to antedate; as, a predated deed or letter. 

PREDATION:  The act of pillaging. E. Hall. 

PREDATORILY:  In a predatory manner. 

PREDATORY:  Living by preying upon other animals; carnivorous. 

PREDE:  To prey; to plunder. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

PREDE:  Prey; plunder; booty. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

PREDECAY:  Premature decay. 

PREDECEASE:  To die sooner than. "If children predecease progenitors." Shak. 

PREDECEASE:  The death of one person or thing before another. [R.] Brougham. 

PREDECESSIVE:  Going before; preceding. "Our predecessive students." Massinger. 

PREDECESSOR:  One who precedes; one who has preceded another in any state, position, office, etc.; one whom another follows or comes after, in any office or position. A prince who was as watchful as his predecessor had been over the interests of the state. Prescott. 

PREDECLARE:  To declare or announce beforehand; to preannounce. Milman. 

PREDEDICATION:  A dedication made previously or beforehand. 

PREDEFINE:  To define beforehand. 

PREDELIBERATION:  Previous deliberation. 

PREDELINEATION:  Previous delineation. 

PREDELLA:  The step, or raised secondary part, of an altar; a superaltar; hence, in Italian painting, a band or frieze of several pictures running along the front of a superaltar, or forming a border or frame at the foot of an altarpiece. 

PREDESIGN:  To design or purpose beforehand; to predetermine. Mitford. 

PREDESIGNATE:  A term used by Sir William Hamilton to define propositions having their quantity indicated by a verbal sign; as, all, none, etc.; -- contrasted with preindesignate, defining propositions of which the quantity is not so indicated. 

PREDESTINARIAN:  Of or pertaining to predestination; as, the predestinarian controversy. Waterland. 

PREDESTINARIAN:  One who believes in or supports the doctrine of predestination. Dr. H. More. 

PREDESTINARIANISM:  The system or doctrine of the predestinarians. 

PREDESTINARY:  Predestinarian. [Obs.] Heylin. 

PREDESTINATE:  Predestinated; foreordained; fated. "A predestinate scratched face." Shak. 

PREDESTINATE:  To predetermine or foreordain; to appoint or ordain beforehand by an unchangeable purpose or decree; to preëlect. Whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son. Rom. viii. 29.  Syn.  -- To predetermine; foreordain; preordain; decree; predestine; foredoom. 

PREDESTINATION:  The purpose of Good from eternity respecting all events; especially, the preordination of men to everlasting happiness or misery. See Calvinism. 

PREDESTINATIVE:  Determining beforehand; predestinating. [R.] Coleridge. 

PREDESTINE:  To decree beforehand; to foreordain; to predestinate. Young. 

PREDESTINY:  Predestination. [Obs.] 

PREDETERMINABLE:  Capable of being determined beforehand. Coleridge. 

PREDETERMINATE:  Determined beforehand; as, the predeterminate counsel of God. 

PREDETERMINATION:  The act of previous determination; a purpose formed beforehand; as, the predetermination of God's will. Hammond. 

PREDETERMINE:  To determine beforehand. 

PREDIASTOLIC:  Preceding the diastole of the heart; as, a prediastolic friction sound. 

PREDICABILITY:  The quality or state of being predicable, or affirmable of something, or attributed to something. Reid. 

PREDICABLE:  Capable of being predicated or affirmed of something; affirmable; attributable. 

PREDICABLE:  One of the five most general relations of attributes involved in logical arrangements, namely, genus, species, difference, property, and accident. 

PREDICAMENT:  See Category.  Syn.  -- Category; condition; state; plight. 

PREDICAMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to a predicament. John Hall (1646). 

PREDICANT:  Predicating; affirming; declaring; proclaiming; hence; preaching. "The Roman predicant orders." N. Brit. Rev. 

PREDICANT:  One who predicates, affirms, or proclaims; specifically, a preaching friar; a Dominican. 

PREDICATE:  To affirm something of another thing; to make an affirmation. Sir M. Hale. 

PREDICATE:  That which is affirmed or denied of the subject. In these propositions, "Paper is white," "Ink is not white," whiteness is the predicate affirmed of paper and denied of ink.  2. (Gram.)  The word or words in a proposition which express what is affirmed of the subject.  Syn.  -- Affirmation; declaration. 

PREDICATE:  Predicated. 

PREDICATIVE:  Expressing affirmation or predication; affirming; predicating, as, a predicative term.  -- Pred"i*ca*tive*ly, adv. 

PREDICATORY:  Affirmative; positive. Bp. Hall. 

PREDICROTIC:  A term applied to the pulse wave sometimes seen in a pulse curve or sphygmogram, between the apex of the curve and the dicrotic wave. The predicrotic or tidal wave is best marked in a hard pulse, i. e., where the blood pressure is high. Landois & Stirling. 

PREDICT:  To tell or declare beforehand; to foretell; to prophesy; to presage; as, to predict misfortune; to predict the return of a comet.  Syn.  -- To foretell; prophesy; prognosticate; presage; forebode; foreshow; bode. 

PREDICT:  A prediction. [Obs.] Shak. 

PREDICTABLE:  That may be predicted. 

PREDICTION:  The act of foretelling; also, that which is foretold; prophecy. The predictions of cold and long winters. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Prophecy; prognostication; foreboding; augury; divination; soothsaying; vaticination. 

PREDICTIONAL:  Prophetic; prognostic. [R.] 

PREDICTIVE:  Foretelling; prophetic; foreboding.  -- Pre*dict"ive*ly, adv. 

PREDICTOR:  One who predicts; a foreteller. 

PREDICTORY:  Predictive. [R.] Fuller. 

PREDIGEST:  To subject (food) to predigestion or artificial digestion. 

PREDIGESTION:  Artificial digestion of food for use in illness or impaired digestion. 

PREDILECT:  To elect or choose beforehand. [R.] Walter Harte. 

PREDILECTION:  A previous liking; a prepossession of mind in favor of something; predisposition to choose or like; partiality. Burke. 

PREDISCOVER:  To discover beforehand. 

PREDISCOVERY:  A previous discovery. 

PREDISPONENCY:  The state of being predisposed; predisposition. [R.] 

PREDISPONENT:  Disposing beforehand; predisposing.  -- n.  That which predisposes. Predisponent causes. (Med.) See Predisposing causes, under Predispose. Dunglison. 

PREDOMINANCE:  The superior influence of a planet. Shak. 

PREDOMINANCY:  Predominance. Bacon. 

PREDOMINANT:  Having the ascendency over others; superior in strength, influence, or authority; prevailing; as, a predominant color; predominant excellence. Those help . . . were predominant in the king's mind. Bacon. Foul subordination is predominant. Shak.  Syn.  -- Prevalent; superior; prevailing; ascendant; ruling; reigning; controlling; overruling. 

PREDOMINANTLY:  In a predominant manner. 

PREDOMINATE:  To be superior in number, strength, influence, or authority; to have controlling power or influence; to prevail; to rule; to have the mastery; as, love predominated in her heart. [Certain] rays may predominate over the rest. Sir. I. Newton. 

PREDOMINATE:  To rule over; to overpower. [R.] 

PREDOMINATION:  The act or state of predominating; ascendency; predominance. W. Browne. 

PREDOOM:  To foredoom. 

PREDORSAL:  Situated in front of the back; immediately in front, or on the ventral side the dorsal part of the vertebral column. 

PREDY:  Cleared and ready for engagement, as a ship. Smart. 

PREEDY:  With ease. [Prov. Eng.] 

PREEF:  Proof. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PREELECT:  To elect beforehand. 

PREELECTION:  Election beforehand. 

PREEMINENCE:  The quality or state of being preëminent; superiority in prominence or in excellence; distinction above others in quality, rank, etc.; rarely, in a bad sense, superiority or notoriety in evil; as, preëminence in honor. The preëminence of Christianity to any other religious scheme. Addison. Painful preëminence! yourself to view Above life's weakness, and its comforts too. Pope. Beneath the forehead's walled preëminence. Lowell. 

PREEMINENT:  Eminent above others; prominent among those who are eminent; superior in excellence; surpassing, or taking precedence of, others; rarely, surpassing others in evil, or in bad qualities; as, preëminent in guilt. In goodness and in power preëminent. Milton. 

PREEMINENTLY:  In a preëminent degree. 

PREEMPLOY:  To employ beforehand. "Preëmployed by him." Shak. 

PREEMPT:  To settle upon (public land) with a right of preemption, as under the laws of the United States; to take by preëmption. 

PREEMPTION:  The act or right of purchasing before others. Specifically: (a) The privilege or prerogative formerly enjoyed by the king of buying provisions for his household in preference to others. [Eng.] (b) The right of an actual settler upon public lands (particularly those of the United States) to purchase a certain portion at a fixed price in preference to all other applicants. Abbott. 

PREEMPTIONER:  One who holds a prior to purchase certain public land. Abbott. 

PREEMPTIVE:  Of or pertaining to preëmption; having power to preëmpt; preëmpting. 

PREEMPTOR:  One who preëmpts; esp., one who preëmpts public land. 

PREEMPTORY:  Pertaining to preëmption. 

PREEN:  A forked tool used by clothiers in dressing cloth. 

PREENGAGE:  To engage by previous contract; to bind or attach previously; to preoccupy. But he was preëngaged by former ties. Dryden. 

PREENGAGEMENT:  Prior engagement, obligation, or attachment, as by contract, promise, or affection. My preëngagements to other themes were not unknown to those for whom I was to write. Boyle. 

PREERECT:  To erect beforehand. 

PREES:  Press; throng. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PREESTABLISH:  To establish beforehand. 

PREESTABLISHMENT:  Settlement beforehand. 

PREETERNITY:  Infinite previous duration. [R.] "The world's preëternity." Cudworth. 

PREEXAMINATION:  Previous examination. 

PREEXAMINE:  To examine beforehand. 

PREEXIST:  To exist previously; to exist before something else. 

PREEXISTENCY:  Preëxistence. [Obs.] 

PREEXISTENT:  Existing previously; preceding existence; as, a preëxistent state. Pope. 

PREEXISTENTISM:  The theory of a preëxistence of souls before their association with human bodies. Emerson. 

PREEXISTIMATION:  Previous esteem or estimation. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PREEXPECTATION:  Previous expectation. 

PREFACE:  The prelude or introduction to the canon of the Mass. Addis & Arnold. Proper preface (Ch. of Eng. & Prot. Epis. Ch.), a portion of the communion service, preceding the prayer of consecration, appointed for certain seasons.  Syn.  -- Introduction; preliminary; preamble; proem; prelude; prologue. 

PREFACE:  To introduce by a preface; to give a preface to; as, to preface a book discourse. 

PREFACE:  To make a preface. Jer. Taylor. 

PREFACER:  The writer of a preface. 

PREFATORIAL:  Prefatory. 

PREFATORILY:  In a prefatory manner; by way of preface. 

PREFATORY:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a preface; introductory to a book, essay, or discourse; as, prefatory remarks. That prefatory addition to the Creed. Dryden. 

PREFECTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a prefect. 

PREFECTSHIP:  The office or jurisdiction of a prefect. 

PREFECTURE:  The office, position, or jurisdiction of a prefect; also, his official residence. 

PREFECUNDATION:  A term collectively applied to the changes or conditions preceding fecundation, especially to the changes which the ovum undergoes before fecundation. 

PREFECUNDATORY:  Of or pertaining to prefecundation. 

PREFERABILITY:  The quality or state of being preferable; preferableness. J. S. Mill. 

PREFERABLE:  Worthy to be preferred or chosen before something else; more desirable; as, a preferable scheme. Addison. 

PREFERABLENESS:  The quality or state of being preferable. 

PREFERABLY:  In preference; by choice. To choose Plautus preferably to Terence. Dennis. 

PREFERENTIAL:  Giving, indicating, or having a preference or precedence; as, a preferential claim; preferential shares.  PREFERENTIAL VOTING Preferential voting. (Political Science)  A system of voting, as at primaries, in which the voters are allowed to indicate on their ballots their preference (usually their first and second choices) between two or more candidates for an office, so that if no candidate receives a majority of first choices the one receiving the greatest number of first and second choices together in nominated or elected. 

PREFERRER:  One who prefers. 

PREFIDENCE:  The quality or state of being prefident. [Obs.] Baxter. 

PREFIDENT:  Trusting beforehand; hence, overconfident. [Obs.] Baxter. 

PREFIGURATE:  To prefigure. [R.] Grafton. 

PREFIGURATION:  The act of prefiguring, or the state of being prefigured. A variety of prophecies and prefigurations. Norris. 

PREFIGURATIVE:  Showing by prefiguration. "The prefigurative atonement." Bp. Horne. 

PREFIGURE:  To show, suggest, or announce, by antecedent types and similitudes; to foreshadow. "Whom all the various types prefigured." South. 

PREFIGUREMENT:  The act of prefiguring; prefiguration; also, that which is prefigured. Carlyle. 

PREFINE:  To limit beforehand. [Obs.] Knolles. 

PREFINITE:  Prearranged. [Obs.] " Set and prefinite time." Holland. 

PREFINITION:  Previous limitation. [Obs.] Fotherby. 

PREFIX:  That which is prefixed; esp., one or more letters or syllables combined or united with the beginning of a word to modify its signification; as, pre- in prefix, con- in conjure. 

PREFIXION:  The act of prefixing. [R.] Bailey. 

PREFLORATION:  Æstivation. 

PREFOLIATION:  Vernation. 

PREFORM:  To form beforehand, or for special ends. "Their natures and preformed faculties. " Shak. 

PREFORMATION:  An old theory of the preëxistence of germs. Cf. Emboîtement. 

PREFORMATIVE:  A formative letter at the beginning of a word. M. Stuart. 

PREFRONTAL:  Situated in front of the frontal bone, or the frontal region of the skull; ectethmoid, as a certain bone in the nasal capsule of many animals, and certain scales of reptiles and fishes.  -- n.  A prefrontal bone or scale. 

PREFULGENCY:  Superior brightness or effulgency. [R.] Barrow. 

PREGAGE:  To preëngage. [Obs.] Fuller. 

PREGLACIAL:  Prior to the glacial or drift period. 

PREGNABLE:  Capable of being entered, taken, or captured; expugnable; as, a pregnable fort. [R.] Cotgrave. 

PREGNANCE:  Pregnancy. [Obs.] Milton. 

PREGNANT:  A pregnant woman. [R.] Dunglison. 

PREGNANT:  Affording entrance; receptive; yielding; willing; open; prompt. [Obs.] " Pregnant to good pity." Shak. 

PREGNANTLY:  In a pregnant manner; fruitfully; significantly. 

PREGNANTLY:  Unresistingly; openly; hence, clearly; evidently. [Obs.] Shak. 

PREGRAVATE:  To bear down; to depress. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

PREGRAVITATE:  To descend by gravity; to sink. [R.] Boyle. 

PREGUSTANT:  Tasting beforehand; having a foretaste. [R.] Ed. Rev. 

PREGUSTATION:  The act of tasting beforehand; foretaste. [R.] Dr. Walker (1678). 

PREHALLUX:  An extra first toe, or rudiment of a toe, on the preaxial side of the hallux. 

PREHEND:  To lay hold of; to seize. [Obs.] Middleton.  PREHENSI-BLE Pre*hen"si-ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. préhensible.]  Capable of being seized. 

PREHENSILE:  Adapted to seize or grasp; seizing; grasping; as, the prehensile tail of a monkey. 

PREHENSION:  The act of taking hold, seizing, or grasping, as with the hand or other member. 

PREHENSORY:  Adapted to seize or grasp; prehensile. 

PREHISTORIC:  Of or pertaining to a period before written history begins; as, the prehistoric ages; prehistoric man. 

PREHNITE:  A pale green mineral occurring in crystalline aggregates having a botryoidal or mammillary structure, and rarely in distinct crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. 

PREHNITIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a tetrabasic acid of benzene obtained as a white crystalline substance; -- probably so called from the resemblance of the wartlike crystals to the mammillæ on the surface of prehnite. 

PREIGNITION:  Ignition in an internal-combustion engine while the inlet valve is open or before compression is completed. 

PREINDESIGNATE:  Having no sign expressive of quantity; indefinite. See Predesignate. 

PREINDISPOSE:  To render indisposed beforehand. Milman. 

PREINSTRUCT:  To instruct previously or beforehand. Dr. H. More. 

PREINTIMATION:  Previous intimation; a suggestion beforehand. T. Scott. 

PREJUDGE:  To judge before hearing, or before full and sufficient examination; to decide or sentence by anticipation; to condemn beforehand. The committee of council hath prejudged the whole case, by calling the united sense of both houses of Parliament" a universal clamor." Swift. 

PREJUDGMENT:  The act of prejudging; decision before sufficient examination. 

PREJUDICACY:  Prejudice; prepossession. [Obs.] Sir. H. Blount. 

PREJUDICAL:  Of or pertaining to the determination of some matter not previously decided; as, a prejudical inquiry or action at law. 

PREJUDICANT:  Influenced by prejudice; biased. [R.] " With not too hasty and prejudicant ears." Milton. 

PREJUDICATE:  To determine beforehand, especially to disadvantage; to prejudge. Our dearest friend Prejudicates the business. Shak. 

PREJUDICATE:  To prejudge. Sir P. Sidney. 

PREJUDICATELY:  With prejudice. 

PREJUDICATIVE:  Forming a judgment without due examination; prejudging. Dr. H. More. 

PREJUDICE:  A bias on the part of judge, juror, or witness which interferes with fairness of judgment.  4. Mischief; hurt; damage; injury; detriment. Locke. England and France might, through their amity, Breed him some prejudice. Shak.  Syn.  -- Prejudgment; prepossession; bias; harm; hurt; damage; detriment; mischief; disadvantage. 

PREKNOWLEDGE:  Prior knowledge. 

PRELAL:  Of or pertaining to printing; typographical. [Obs.] Fuller. 

PRELATE:  A clergyman of a superior order, as an archbishop or a bishop, having authority over the lower clergy; a dignitary of the church.  Note: This word and the words derived from it are often used invidiously, in English ecclesiastical history, by dissenters, respecting the Established Church system. Hear him but reason in divinity, . . . You would desire the king were made a prelate. Shak. 

PRELATE:  To act as a prelate. [Obs.] Right prelating is busy laboring, and not lording. Latimer. 

PRELATEITY:  Prelacy. [Obs.] Milton. 

PRELATESHIP:  The office of a prelate. Harmar. 

PRELATESS:  A woman who is a prelate; the wife of a prelate. Milton. 

PRELATIAL:  Prelatical. Beaconsfield.  PRELATIC; PRELATICAL Pre*lat"ic, Pre*lat"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to prelates or prelacy; as, prelatical authority. Macaulay. 

PRELATICALLY:  In a prelatical manner; with reference to prelates. Milton. The last Georgic was a good prelude to the Æneis. 

PRELATION:  The setting of one above another; preference. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

PRELATISM:  Prelacy; episcopacy. 

PRELATIST:  One who supports of advocates prelacy, or the government of the church by prelates; hence, a high-churchman. Hume. I am an Episcopalian, but not a prelatist. T. Scott. 

PRELATIZE:  To bring under the influence of prelacy. Palfrey. 

PRELATIZE:  To uphold or encourage prelacy; to exercise prelatical functions. An episcopacy that began then to prelatize. Milton. 

PRELATRY:  Prelaty; prelacy. [Obs.]  PRELATURE; PRELATURESHIP Prel"a*ture, Prel"a*ture*ship, n. Etym: [F. prélature, or LL. praelatura.]  The state or dignity of a prelate; prelacy. Milman. 

PRELATY:  Prelacy. [Obs.] Milton. 

PRELECT:  To read publicly, as a lecture or discourse. 

PRELECT:  To discourse publicly; to lecture. Spitting . . . was publicly prelected upon. De. Quincey. To prelect upon the military art. Bp. Horsley. 

PRELECTION:  A lecture or discourse read in public or to a select company. "The prelections of Faber." Sir M. Hale. 

PRELECTOR:  A reader of lectures or discourses; a lecturer. Sheldon. 

PRELIMINARILY:  In a preliminary manner. 

PRELIMINARY:  Introductory; previous; preceding the main discourse or business; prefatory; as, preliminary observations to a discourse or book; preliminary articles to a treaty; preliminary measures; preliminary examinations.  Syn.  -- Introductory; preparatory; prefatory; proemial; previous; prior; precedent; antecedent. 

PRELIMINARY:  That which precedes the main discourse, work, design, or business; something introductory or preparatory; as, the preliminaries to a negotiation or duel; to take one's preliminaries the year before entering college.  Syn.  -- Introduction; preface; prelude. 

PRELIMIT:  To limit previously. [R.] 

PRELOOK:  To look forward. [Obs.] Surrey. 

PRELUDE:  An introductory performance, preceding and preparing for the principal matter; a preliminary part, movement, strain, etc.; especially (Mus.), a strain introducing the theme or chief subject; a movement introductory to a fugue, yet independent; -- with recent composers often synonymous with overture. The last Georgic was a good prelude to the Ænis Addison. The cause is more than the prelude, the effect is more than the sequel, of the fact. Whewell.  Syn.  -- Preface; introduction; preliminary; preamble; forerunner; harbinger; precursor. 

PRELUDE:  To play an introduction or prelude; to give a prefatory performance; to serve as prelude. The musicians preluded on their instruments. Sir. W. Scott. We are preluding too largely, and must come at once to the point. Jeffrey. 

PRELUDER:  One who, or that which, preludes; one who plays a prelude. Mason. 

PRELUDIAL:  Of or pertaining to a prelude; of the nature of a prelude; introductory. [R.] 

PRELUDIOUS:  Preludial. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

PRELUMBAR:  Situated immediately in front of the loins;- applied to the dorsal part of the abdomen. 

PRELUSIVE:  Of the nature of a prelude; introductory; indicating that something of a like kind is to follow. "Prelusive drops." Thomson. -- Pre*lu"sive*ly, adv. 

PRELUSORILY:  In a prelusory way. 

PRELUSORY:  Introductory; prelusive. Bacon. 

PREMATURITY:  The quality or state of being premature; early, or untimely, ripeness; as, the prematurity of genius. 

PREMAXILLA:  A bone on either side of the middle line between the nose and mouth, forming the anterior part of each half of the upper jawbone; the intermaxilla. In man the premaxillæ become united and form the incisor part of the maxillary bone. 

PREMAXILLARY:  Situated in front of the maxillary bones; pertaining to the premaxillæ; intermaxillary.  -- n.  A premaxilla. 

PREMEDIATE:  To advocate. [R.] 

PREMEDITATE:  To think on, and revolve in the mind, beforehand; to contrive and design previously; as, to premeditate robbery. With words premeditated thus he said. Dryden. 

PREMEDITATE:  To think, consider, deliberate, or revolve in the mind, beforehand. 

PREMEDITATE:  Premeditated; deliberate. [Archaic] Bp. Burnet. 

PREMEDITATELY:  With premeditation. Burke. 

PREMEDITATION:  The act of meditating or contriving beforehand; previous deliberation; forethought. 

PREMERIT:  To merit or deserve beforehand. [Obs.] Eikon Basi  PREMIAL; PREMIANT Pre"mi*al, Pre"mi*ant, a. Etym: [L. praemialis. See Premium.]  Serving to reward; rewarding. [R.] Baxter. 

PREMICES:  First fruits. [Obs.] Dryden. 

PREMIER:  The first minister of state; the prime minister. 

PREMIERE:  First; chief; as, a première danseuse. -- n. fem.; pl. -mières (F. pre*myâr").  (a) The leading woman of a group, esp. in a theatrical cast.  (b) A first performance, as of a play; a first night. 

PREMIERSHIP:  The office of the premier. 

PREMILLENNIAL:  , Previous to the millennium. 

PREMIOUS:  Rich in gifts. [R.] Clarke. 

PREMISE:  Either of the first two propositions of a syllogism, from which the conclusion is drawn.  Note: "All sinners deserve punishment: A B is a sinner." These propositions, which are the premises, being true or admitted, the conclusion follows, that A B deserves punishment. While the premises stand firm, it is impossible to shake the conclusion. Dr. H. More.  3. pl. (Law)  Matters previously stated or set forth; esp., that part in the beginning of a deed, the office of which is to express the grantor and grantee, and the land or thing granted or conveyed, and all that precedes the habendum; the thing demised or granted.  4. pl.  A piece of real estate; a building and its adjuncts; as, to lease premises; to trespass on another's premises. 

PREMISE:  To make a premise; to set forth something as a premise. Swift. 

PREMISS:  Premise. Whately. I. Watts 

PREMIT:  To premise. [Obs.] Donne. 

PREMOLAR:  Situated in front of the molar teeth. --n.  An anterior molar tooth which has replaced a deciduous molar. See Tooth. 

PREMONISH:  To forewarn; to admonish beforehand. [R.] Herrick. To teach, and to premonish. Bk. of Com. Prayer. 

PREMONISHMENT:  Previous warning or admonition; forewarning. Sir H. Wotton. 

PREMONITION:  Previous warning, notice, or information; forewarning; as, a premonition of danger. 

PREMONITOR:  One who, or that which, gives premonition. 

PREMONITORY:  Giving previous warning or notice; as, premonitory symptoms of disease.  -- Pre*mon"i*to*ri*ly, adv. 

PREMONSTRANT:  A Premonstratensian. 

PREMONSTRATE:  To show beforehand; to foreshow. [R.] Herbert. 

PREMONSTRATENSIAN:  One of a religious order of regular canons founded by St. Norbert at Prémontré, in France, in 1119. The members of the order are called also White Canons, Norbertines, and Premonstrants. 

PREMONSTRATION:  A showing beforehand; foreshowing. 

PREMONSTRATOR:  One who, or that which, premonstrates. [R.] 

PREMORSE:  Terminated abruptly, or as it bitten off. Premorse root or leaves (Bot.), such as have an abrupt, ragged, and irregular termination, as if bitten off short. 

PREMOSAIC:  Relating to the time before Moses; as, premosaic history. 

PREMOTION:  Previous motion or excitement to action. 

PREMUNIRE:  See Præmunire. 

PREMUNITE:  To fortify beforehand; to guard against objection. [Obs.] Fotherby. 

PREMUNITION:  The act of fortifying or guarding against objections. [Obs.] 

PREMUNITORY:  Of or pertaining to a premunire; as, a premunitory process. 

PRENASAL:  Situated in front of the nose, or in front of the nasal chambers. 

PRENATAL:  Being or happening before birth. 

PRENDER:  The power or right of taking a thing before it is offered. Burrill. 

PRENOMEN:  See Prænomen. 

PRENOMINAL:  Serving as a prefix in a compound name. Sir T. Browne. 

PRENOMINATE:  Forenamed; named beforehand. [R.] "Prenominate crimes." Shak. 

PRENOMINATE:  To forename; to name beforehand; to tell by name beforehand. Shak. 

PRENOMINATION:  The act of prenominating; privilege of being named first. Sir T. Browne. 

PRENOSTIC:  A prognostic; an omen. [Obs.] Gower. 

PRENOTE:  To note or designate beforehand. Foxe. 

PRENOTION:  A notice or notion which precedes something else in time; previous notion or thought; foreknowledge. Bacon. 

PRENSATION:  The act of seizing with violence. [Obs.] Barrow . 

PRENTICE:  An apprentice. [Obs. or Colloq.] Piers Plowman. "My accuser is my prentice." Shak. 

PRENTICEHOOD:  Apprenticehood. [Obs.] This jolly prentice with his master bode Till he was out nigh of his prenticehood. Chaucer. 

PRENTICESHIP:  Apprenticeship. [Obs. or Colloq.] He served a prenticeship who sets up shop. Pope. 

PRENUNCIATION:  The act of announcing or proclaiming beforehand. [Obs.] 

PRENUNCIOUS:  Announcing beforehand; presaging. [Obs.] Blount. 

PREOBLONGATA:  The anterior part of the medulla oblongata. B. G. Wilder. 

PREOBTAIN:  To obtain beforehand. 

PREOCCUPANCY:  The act or right of taking possession before another; as, the preoccupancy of wild land. 

PREOCULAR:  Placed just in front of the eyes, as the antennæ of certain insects.  -- n.  One of the scales just in front of the eye of a reptile or fish. 

PREOMINATE:  To ominate beforehand; to portend. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PREOPERCULAR:  Situated in front of the operculum; pertaining to the preoperculum.  -- n.  The preoperculum. 

PREOPERCULUM:  The anterior opercular bone in fishes. 

PREOPINION:  Opinion previously formed; prepossession; prejudice. Sir T. Browne. 

PREOPTION:  Right of first choice. 

PREORAL:  Situated in front of, or anterior to, the mouth; as, preoral bands. 

PREORBITAL:  a. (Anat.) Situated in front or the orbit. 

PREORDAIN:  To ordain or appoint beforehand: to predetermine: to foreordain. Milton. 

PREORDER:  To order to arrange beforehand; to foreordain. Sir W. Hamilton. 

PREORDINANCE:  Antecedent decree or determination. Shak. 

PREORDINATE:  Preordained. [R.] Sir T. Elyot. 

PREORDINATION:  The act of foreordaining: previous determination. "The preordination of God." Bale. 

PREPARABLE:  Capable of being prepared. "Medicine preparable by art." Boyle. 

PREPARATION:  The holding over of a note from one chord into the next chord, where it forms a temporary discord, until resolved in the chord that follows; the anticipation of a discordant note in the preceding concord, so that the ear is prepared for the shock. See Suspension.  7. Accomplishment; qualification. [Obs.] Shak. 

PREPARATIVE:  Tending to prepare or make ready; having the power of preparing, qualifying, or fitting; preparatory. Laborious quest of knowledge preparative to this work. South. 

PREPARATIVELY:  By way of preparation. 

PREPARATOR:  One who prepares beforehand, as subjects for dissection, specimens for preservation in collections, etc. Agassiz. 

PREPARATORY:  Preparing the way for anything by previous measures of adaptation; antecedent and adapted to what follows; introductory; preparative; as, a preparatory school; a preparatory condition. 

PREPARE:  Preparation. [Obs.] Shak. 

PREPARED:  Made fit or suitable; adapted; ready; as, prepared food; prepared questions.  -- Pre*par"ed*ly, adv. Shak.  -- Pre*par"ed*ness, n. 

PREPARER:  One who, or that which, prepares, fits, or makes ready. Wood. 

PREPAY:  To pay in advance, or beforehand; as, to prepay postage. 

PREPAYMENT:  Payment in advance. 

PREPENIAL:  Situated in front of, or anterior to, the penis. 

PREPENSE:  To weigh or consider beforehand; to premeditate. [Obs.] Spenser. Sir T. Elyot. 

PREPENSE:  To deliberate beforehand. [Obs.] 

PREPENSE:  Devised, contrived, or planned beforehand; preconceived; premeditated; aforethought; -- usually placed after the word it qualifies; as, malice prepense. This has not arisen from any misrepresentation or error prepense. Southey. 

PREPENSELY:  In a premeditated manner.  PREPOLLENCE; PREPOLLENCY Pre*pol"lence, Pre*pol"len*cy, n. Etym: [L. praepollentia.]  The quality or state of being prepollent; superiority of power; predominance; prevalence. [R.] Coventry. 

PREPOLLENT:  Having superior influence or power; prevailing; predominant. [R.] Boyle. 

PREPOLLENT:  An extra first digit, or rudiment of a digit, on the preaxial side of the pollex. 

PREPONDER:  To preponderate [Obs.]  PREPONDERANCE; PREPONDERANCY Pre*pon"der*ance, Pre*pon"der*an*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prépondérance.]  1. The quality or state of being preponderant; superiority or excess of weight, influence, or power, etc.; an outweighing. The mind should . . . reject or receive proportionably to the preponderancy of the greater grounds of probability. Locke. In a few weeks he had changed the relative position of all the states in Europe, and had restored the equilibrium which the preponderance of one power had destroyed. Macaulay.  2. (Gun.)  The excess of weight of that part of a canon behind the trunnions over that in front of them. 

PREPONDERANT:  Preponderating; outweighing; overbalancing; -- used literally and figuratively; as, a preponderant weight; of preponderant importance.  -- Pre*pon"der*ant*ly, adv. 

PREPONDERATE:  To exceed in weight; hence, to incline or descend, as the scale of a balance; figuratively, to exceed in influence, power, etc.; hence; to incline to one side; as, the affirmative side preponderated. That is no just balance in which the heaviest side will not preponderate. Bp. Wilkins. 

PREPONDERATINGLY:  In a preponderating manner; preponderantly. 

PREPONDERATION:  The act or state of preponderating; preponderance; as, a preponderation of reasons. I. Watts. 

PREPOSE:  To place or set before; to prefix. [Obs.] Fuller. 

PREPOSITION:  A word employed to connect a noun or a pronoun, in an adjectival or adverbial sense, with some other word; a particle used with a noun or pronoun (in English always in the objective case) to make a phrase limiting some other word; -- so called because usually placed before the word with which it is phrased; as, a bridge of iron; he comes from town; it is good for food; he escaped by running.  2. A proposition; an exposition; a discourse. [Obs.] He made a long preposition and oration. Fabyan. 

PREPOSITIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a preposition; of the nature of a preposition. Early.  -- Prep`o*si"tion*al*ly, adv. 

PREPOSITIVE:  Put before; prefixed; as, a prepositive particle.  -- n.  A prepositive word. Tooke. 

PREPOSITOR:  A scholar appointed to inspect other scholars; a monitor. Todd. 

PREPOSITURE:  The office or dignity of a provost; a provostship. Lowth. 

PREPOSSESSING:  Tending to invite favor; attracting confidence, favor, esteem, or love; attractive; as, a prepossessing manner.  -- Pre`pos*sess"ing*ly, adv. 

PREPOSSESSOR:  One who possesses, or occupies, previously. R. Brady. 

PREPOSTOR:  See Prepositor. 

PREPOTENCY:  The capacity, on the part of one of the parents, as compared with the other, to transmit more than his or her own share of characteristics to their offspring. 

PREPOTENT:  Characterized by prepotency. Darwin. 

PREPROVIDE:  To provide beforehand. "The materials preprovided." Fuller. 

PREPUBIC:  Situated in front of, or anterior to, the pubis; pertaining to the prepubis. 

PREPUBIS:  A bone or cartilage, of some animals, situated in the middle line in front of the pubic bones. 

PREPUCE:  The foreskin. 

PREPUTIAL:  Of or pertaining to the prepuce.  PRERAPHAELISM; PRERAPHAELITISM Pre*raph"a*el*ism, Pre*raph"a*el*i`tism, n. (Fine Arts)  The doctrine or practice of a school of modern painters who profess to be followers of the painters before Raphael. Its adherents advocate careful study from nature, delicacy and minuteness of workmanship, and an exalted and delicate conception of the subject. 

PRERAPHAELITE:  Of or pertaining to the style called preraphaelitism; as, a preraphaelite figure; a preraphaelite landscape. Ruskin. 

PRERAPHAELITE:  One who favors or practices art as it was before Raphael; one who favors or advocates preraphaelitism.  PRE-RAPHAELITE Pre-Raph"a*el*ite, n.  Popularly, any modern artist thought to be a would-be restorer of early ideas or methods, as one of the German painters often called Nazarenes, or one who paints and draws with extreme minuteness of detail. 

PREREGNANT:  One who reigns before another; a sovereign predecessor. [R.] Warner. 

PREREMOTE:  More remote in previous time or prior order. In some cases two more links of causation may be introduced; one of them may be termed the preremote cause, the other the postremote effect. E. Darwin. 

PREREQUIRE:  To require beforehand. Some things are prerequired of us. Bp. Hall. 

PREREQUISITE:  Previously required; necessary as a preliminary to any proposed effect or end; as, prerequisite conditions of success. 

PREREQUISITE:  Something previously required, or necessary to an end or effect proposed. The necessary prerequisites of freedom. Goldsmith. 

PRERESOLVE:  To resolve beforehand; to predetermine. Sir E. Dering. 

PREROGATIVED:  Endowed with a prerogative, or exclusive privilege. [R.] Shak. 

PREROGATIVELY:  By prerogative. 

PRESAGE:  To form or utter a prediction; -- sometimes used with of. Dryden. 

PRESAGEFUL:  Full of presages; ominous. Dark in the glass of some presageful mood. Tennyson. 

PRESAGER:  One who, or that which, presages; a foreteller; a foreboder. Shak. 

PRESAGIOUS:  Foreboding; ominous. [Obs.] 

PRESBYOPE:  One who has presbyopia; a farsighted person. 

PRESBYOPIA:  A defect of vision consequent upon advancing age. It is due to rigidity of the crystalline lens, which producepresbytia. 

PRESBYOPIC:  Affected by presbyopia; also, remedying presbyopia; farsighted. 

PRESBYOPY:  See Presbyopia. 

PRESBYTE:  Same as Presbyope. 

PRESBYTER:  One ordained to the second order in the ministry; -- called also priest. I rather term the one sort presbyter than priest. Hooker. New presbyter is but old priest writ large. Milton.  3. (Presbyterian Ch.)  A member of a presbytery whether lay or clerical.  4. A Presbyterian. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

PRESBYTERAL:  Of or pertaining to a presbyter or presbytery; presbyterial. 

PRESBYTERATE:  A presbytery; also, presbytership. Heber. 

PRESBYTERESS:  A female presbyter. Bale. 

PRESBYTERIAL:  Presbyterian. "Presbyterial government." Milton. 

PRESBYTERIAN:  Of or pertaining to a presbyter, or to ecclesiastical government by presbyters; relating to those who uphold church government by presbyters; also, to the doctrine, discipline, and worship of a communion so governed. 

PRESBYTERIAN:  One who maintains the validity of ordination and government by presbyters; a member of the Presbyterian church. Reformed Presbyterians. See Cameronian. 

PRESBYTERIANISM:  That form of church government which invests presbyters with all spiritual power, and admits no prelates over them; also, the faith and polity of the Presbyterian churches, taken collectively. 

PRESBYTERIUM:  Same as Presbytery, 4. 

PRESBYTERSHIP:  The office or station of a presbyter; presbyterate. 

PRESBYTERY:  A judicatory consisting of all the ministers within a certain district, and one layman, who is a ruling elder, from each parish or church, commissioned to represent the church in conjunction with the pastor. This body has a general jurisdiction over the churches under its care, and next below the provincial synod in authority.  3. The Presbyterian religion of polity. [R.] Tatler.  4. (a) (Arch.) That part of the church reserved for the officiating priest. (b) The residence of a priest or clergyman. Gwilt. 

PRESBYTIA:  Presbyopia. 

PRESBYTIC:  Same as Presbyopic. 

PRESBYTISM:  Presbyopia. 

PRESCAPULA:  The part of the scapula in front of, or above, the spine, or mesoscapula. 

PRESCAPULAR:  (Anat.) Of or pertaining to the prescapula; supraspinous. 

PRESCIENCE:  Knowledge of events before they take place; foresight. God's certain prescience of the volitions of moral agents. J. Edwards. 

PRESCIENT:  Having knowledge of coming events; foreseeing; conscious beforehand. Pope. Henry . . . had shown himself sensible, and almost prescient, of this event. Bacon. 

PRESCIENTLY:  With presciense or foresight. 

PRESCIND:  To consider by a separate act of attention or analysis. Sir W. Hamilton. 

PRESCINDENT:  Cutting off; abstracting. [R.] Cheyne. 

PRESCIOUS:  Foreknowing; having foreknowledge; as, prescious of ills. [R.] Dryden. 

PRESCRIBE:  To direct, as a remedy to be used by a patient; as, the doctor prescribed quinine.  Syn.  -- To appoint; order; command; dictate; ordain; institute; establish. 

PRESCRIBE:  To write or to give medical directions; to indicate remedies; as, to prescribe for a patient in a fever.  4. (Law)  To claim by prescription; to claim a title to a thing on the ground of immemorial use and enjoyment, that is, by a custom having the force of law. 

PRESCRIBER:  One who prescribes. 

PRESCRIPT:  Directed; prescribed. " A prescript from of words." Jer. Taylor. 

PRESCRIPTIBILITY:  , The quality or state of being prescriptible. Story. 

PRESCRIPTIBLE:  Depending on, or derived from, prescription; proper to be prescribed. Grafton. 

PRESCRIPTION:  A direction of a remedy or of remedies for a disease, and the manner of using them; a medical recipe; also, a prescribed remedy.  3. (Law)  A prescribing for title; the claim of title to a thing by virtue immemorial use and enjoyment; the right or title acquired by possession had during the time and in the manner fixed by law. Bacon. That profound reverence for law and prescription which has long been characteristic of Englishmen. Macaulay.  Note: Prescription differs from custom, which is a local usage, while prescription is personal, annexed to the person only. Prescription only extends to incorporeal rights, such as aright of way, or of common. What the law gives of common rights is not the subject of prescription. Blackstone. Cruise. Kent. In Scotch law, prescription is employed in the sense in which limitation is used in England and America, namely, to express that operation of the lapse of time by which obligations are extinguished or title protected. Sir T. Craig. Erskine. 

PRESCRIPTIVE:  Consisting in, or acquired by, immemorial or long-continued use and enjoyment; as, a prescriptive right of title; pleading the continuance and authority of long custom. The right to be drowsy in protracted toil has become prescriptive. J. M. Mason. 

PRESCRIPTIVELY:  By prescription. 

PRESCUTUM:  The first of the four pieces composing the dorsal part, or tergum, of a thoracic segment of an insect. It is usually small and inconspicuous. 

PRESEANCE:  Priority of place in sitting.[Obs.] Carew. 

PRESELECT:  To select beforehand. 

PRESENSATION:  Previous sensation, notion, or idea. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PRESENSION:  Previous perception. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PRESENT:  Present letters or instrument, as a deed of conveyance, a lease, letter of attorney, or other writing; as in the phrase, " Know all men by these presents," that is, by the writing itself, " per has literas praesentes; " -- in this sense, rarely used in the singular.  3. (Gram.)  A present tense, or the form of the verb denoting the present tense. At present, at the present time; now.  -- For the present, for the tine being; temporarily.  -- In present, at once, without delay. [Obs.] "With them, in present, half his kingdom; the rest to follow at his death." Milton. 

PRESENT:  To appear at the mouth of the uterus so as to be perceptible to the finger in vaginal examination; -- said of a part of an infant during labor. 

PRESENT:  Anything presented or given; a gift; a donative; as, a Christmas present.  Syn.  -- Gift; donation; donative; benefaction. See Gift. 

PRESENT:  The position of a soldier in presenting arms; as, to stand at present. 

PRESENTANEOUS:  Ready; quick; immediate in effect; as, presentaneous poison. [Obs.] Harvey. 

PRESENTATION:  exhibition; representation; display; appearance; semblance; show. Under the presentation of the shoots his wit. Shak.  3. That which is presented or given; a present; a gift, as, the picture was a presentation. [R.]  4. (Eccl.)  The act of offering a clergyman to the bishop or ordinary for institution in a benefice; the right of presenting a clergyman. If the bishop admits the patron's presentation, the clerk so admitted is next to be instituted by him. Blackstone.  5. (Med.)  The particular position of the child during labor relatively to the passage though which it is to be brought forth; -- specifically designated by the part which first appears at the mouth of the uterus; as, a breech presentation. Presentation copy, a copy of a book, engraving, etc., presented to some one by the author or artist, as a token of regard. 

PRESENTATIVE:  Having the right of presentation, or offering a clergyman to the bishop for institution; as, advowsons are presentative, collative, or donative. Blackstone.  2. Admitting the presentation of a clergyman; as, a presentative parsonage. Spelman.  3. (Metaph.)  Capable of being directly known by, or presented to, the mind; intuitive; directly apprehensible, as objects; capable of apprehending, as faculties. The latter term, presentative faculty, I use . . . in contrast and correlation to a "representative faculty." Sir W. Hamilton. 

PRESENTEE:  One to whom something is presented; also, one who is presented; specifically (Eccl.), one presented to benefice. Ayliffe. 

PRESENTER:  One who presents. 

PRESENTIAL:  Implying actual presence; present, immediate. [Obs.] God's mercy is made presential to us. Jer. Taylor. -- Pre*sen"tial*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

PRESENTIALITY:  State of being actually present. [Obs.] South. 

PRESENTIATE:  To make present. [Obs.] 

PRESENTIENT:  Feeling or perceiving beforehand. 

PRESENTIFIC:  Making present. [Obs.] -- Pres`en*tif"ic*ly, adv. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PRESENTIFICAL:  Presentific. [Obs.] 

PRESENTIMENT:  Previous sentiment, conception, or opinion; previous apprehension; especially, an antecedent impression or conviction of something unpleasant, distressing, or calamitous, about to happen; anticipation of evil; foreboding. 

PRESENTIMENTAL:  Of nature of a presentiment; foreboding. [R.] Coleridge. 

PRESENTION:  See Presension. [Obs.] 

PRESENTIVE:  Bringing a conception or notion directly before the mind; presenting an object to the memory of imagination; -- distinguished from symbolic. How greatly the word "will" is felt to have lost presentive power in the last three centuries. Earle. -- Pre*sent"ive*ly, adv.  -- Pre*sent"ive*ness, n. 

PRESENTNESS:  The quality or state of being present; presence. [Obs.] "Presentness of mind in danger." Clarendon. 

PRESENTOIR:  An ornamental tray, dish, or the like, used as a salver.  PRESENT VALUE; PRESENT WORTH Pres"ent value or worth  (of money payable at a future date).  The principal which, drawing interest at a given rate, will amount to the given sum at the date on which this is to be paid; thus, interest being at 6%, the present value of $106 due one year hence is $100. 

PRESERVABLE:  Capable of being preserved; admitting of preservation. 

PRESERVATION:  The act or process of preserving, or keeping safe; the state of being preserved, or kept from injury, destruction, or decay; security; safety; as, preservation of life, fruit, game, etc.; a picture in good preservation. Give us particulars of thy preservation. Shak. 

PRESERVATIVE:  Having the power or quality of preserving; tending to preserve, or to keep from injury, decay, etc. 

PRESERVATIVE:  That which preserves, or has the power of preserving; a presevative agent. To wear tablets as preservatives against the plague. Bacon. 

PRESERVATORY:  Preservative. Bp. Hall. 

PRESHOW:  To foreshow. 

PRESIDENCE:  See Presidency. [Obs.] 

PRESIDENT:  Precedent. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PRESIDENT:  Occupying the first rank or chief place; having the highest authority; presiding. [R.] His angels president In every province. Milton. 

PRESIDENTSHIP:  The office and dignity of president; presidency. Hooker. 

PRESIDER:  One who presides.  PRESIDIAL; PRESIDIARY Pre*sid"i*al, Pre*sid"i*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. praesidialis and praesidiarius, fr. praesidium a presiding over, defense, guard. See Preside.]  Of or pertaining to a garrison; having a garrison. There are three presidial castles in this city. Howell. 

PRESIDIARY:  A guard. [Obs.] "Heavenly presidiaries." Bp. Hall. 

PRESIDING:  a. & n. from Preside. Presiding elder. See under 2d Elder. 

PRESIDIO:  A place of defense; a fortress; a garrison; a fortress; a garrison or guardhouse. 

PRESIGNIFICATION:  The act of signifying or showing beforehand. 

PRESIGNIFY:  To intimate or signify beforehand; to presage. 

PRESPHENOID:  Situated in front of the sphenoid bone; of or pertaining to the anterior part of the sphenoid bone (i. e., the presphenoid bone). Presphenoid bone (Anat.), the anterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone in front of the basisphenoid. It is usually a separate bone in the young or fetus, but becomes a part of the sphenoid in the adult. 

PRESPHENOID:  The presphenoid bone. 

PRESPHENOIDAL:  Of or pertaining to the presphenoid bone; presphenoid. 

PRESPINAL:  Prevertebral. 

PRESS:  An East Indian insectivore (Tupaia ferruginea). It is arboreal in its habits, and has a bushy tail. The fur is soft, and varies from rusty red to maroon and to brownish black. 

PRESS:  To force into service, particularly into naval service; to impress. To peaceful peasant to the wars is pressed. Dryden. 

PRESS:  A commission to force men into public service, particularly into the navy. I have misused the king's press. Shak. Press gang, or Pressgang, a detachment of seamen under the command of an officer empowered to force men into the naval service. See Impress gang, under Impress.  -- Press money, money paid to a man enlisted into public service. See Prest money, under Prest, a. 

PRESSBOARD:  A kind of highly sized rag paper or board, sometimes containing a small admixture of wood pulp; -- so called because used originally, as now, in presses for pressing and finishing knit underwear.  PRESS CAKE Press cake.  A cake of compressed substance, as: in gunpowder manufacture, the cake resulting from compressing the meal powder; in the treatment of coal tar, the pressed product at various stages of the process; or, in beet-sugar manufacture, the vegetable residue after the sugar juice has been expressed. 

PRESSER:  One who, or that which, presses. Presser bar, or Presser wheel (Knitting machine), a bar or wheel which closes the barbs of the needles to enable the loops of the yarn to pass over them.  -- Presser foot, the part of a sewing machine which rests on the cloth and presses it down upon the table of the machine. 

PRESSGANG:  See Press gang, under Press. 

PRESSING:  Urgent; exacting; importunate; as, a pressing necessity.  -- Press"ing*ly, adv. 

PRESSION:  An endeavor to move. 

PRESSIROSTER:  One of a tribe of wading birds (Pressirostres) including those which have a compressed beak, as the plovers. 

PRESSIROSTRAL:  Of or pertaining to the pressirosters. 

PRESSITANT:  Gravitating; heavy. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PRESSIVE:  Pressing; urgent; also, oppressive; as, pressive taxation. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

PRESSLY:  Closely; concisely. [Obs.] 

PRESSMAN:  One of a press gang, who aids in forcing men into the naval service; also, one forced into the service. 

PRESSOR:  Causing, or giving rise to, pressure or to an increase of pressure; as, pressor nerve fibers, stimulation of which excites the vasomotor center, thus causing a stronger contraction of the arteries and consequently an increase of the arterial blood pressure; -- opposed to depressor. Landois & Stirling. 

PRESSPACK:  To pack, or prepare for packing, by means of a press.  PRESS PROOF Press proof. (Print.)  (a) The last proof for correction before sending to press.  (b) A proof taken on a press, esp. to show impression, margins, color, etc.  PRESS REVISE Press revise. (Print.)  A proof for final revision. 

PRESSURE:  The action of a force against some obstacle or opposing force; a force in the nature of a thrust, distributed over a surface, often estimated with reference to the upon a unit's area. Atmospheric pressure, Center of pressure, etc. See under Atmospheric, Center, etc.  -- Back pressure (Steam engine), pressure which resists the motion of the piston, as the pressure of exhaust steam which does not find free outlet.  -- Fluid pressure, pressure like that exerted by a fluid. It is a thrust which is normal and equally intense in all directions around a point. Rankine.  -- Pressure gauge, a gauge for indicating fluid pressure; a manometer.  PRESSURE WIRES Pressure wires. (Elec.)  Wires leading from various points of an electric system to a central station, where a voltmeter indicates the potential of the system at those points. 

PRESSWORK:  The art of printing from the surface of type, plates, or engravings in relief, by means of a press; the work so done. MacKellar.  PRESS WORK 5.  Usually Press work. The work of a press agent. [Chiefly Theat. Cant] 

PREST:  imp. & p. p. of Press. 

PREST:  A duty in money formerly paid by the sheriff on his account in the exchequer, or for money left or remaining in his hands. Cowell. 

PREST:  To give as a loan; to lend. [Obs.] Sums of money . . . prested out in loan. E. Hall. 

PRESTABLE:  Payable. [Scot.] 

PRESTATION:  A payment of money; a toll or duty; also, the rendering of a service. Burrill.  Prestation money, a sum of money paid yearly by archdeacons and other dignitaries to their bishop. 

PRESTER:  One of the veins of the neck when swollen with anger or other excitement. [Obs.] 

PRESTER:  A priest or presbyter; as, Prester John. [Obs.] 

PRESTERNUM:  The anterior segment of the sternum; the manubrium.  -- Pre*ster"nal, a. 

PRESTIDIGITAL:  Nimble-fingered; having fingers fit for prestidigitation, or juggling. [R.] "His prestidigital hand." Charles Reade. 

PRESTIDIGITATION:  Legerdemain; sleight of hand; juggling. 

PRESTIDIGITATOR:  One skilled in legerdemain or sleight of hand; a juggler. 

PRESTIGIATION:  Legerdemain; prestidigitation. [Obs.] 

PRESTIGIATOR:  A juggler; prestidigitator. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PRESTIGIATORY:  Consisting of impostures; juggling. [Obs.] Barrow. 

PRESTIGIOUS:  Practicing tricks; juggling. [Obs.] Cotton Mather. 

PRESTIMONY:  A fund for the support of a priest, without the title of a benefice. The patron in the collator. 

PRESTISSIMO:  Very quickly; with great rapidity. 

PRESTO:  Quickly; rapidly; -- a direction for a quick, lively movement or performance; quicker than allegro, or any rate of time except prestissimo. 

PRESTRICTION:  Obstruction, dimness, or defect of sight. [Obs.] Milton. 

PRESULTOR:  A leader in the dance. [R.] 

PRESUMABLE:  Such as may be presumed or supposed to be true; that seems entitled to belief without direct evidence. 

PRESUMABLY:  In a presumable manner; by, or according to, presumption. 

PRESUMEDLY:  By presumption. 

PRESUMER:  One who presumes; also, an arrogant person. Sir H. Wotton. 

PRESUMINGLY:  Confidently; arrogantly. 

PRESUMPTIVELY:  By presumption, or supposition grounded or probability; presumably. 

PRESUMPTUOUSLY:  In a presumptuous manner; arrogantly. 

PRESUMPTUOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being presumptuous. 

PRESUPPOSAL:  Presupposition. [R.] "Presupposal of knowledge." Hooker. 

PRESUPPOSE:  To suppose beforehand; to imply as antecedent; to take for granted; to assume; as, creation presupposes a creator. Each [kind of knowledge] presupposes many necessary things learned in other sciences, and known beforehand. Hooker. 

PRESURMISE:  A surmise previously formed. Shak. 

PRESYSTOLIC:  Preceding the systole or contraction of the heart; as, the presystolic friction sound. 

PRETEMPORAL:  Situated in front of the temporal bone.  PRETENCE; PRETENCEFUL; PRETENCELESS Pre*tence", n., Pre*tence"ful, a., Pre*tence"*less, a.  See Pretense, Pretenseful, Pretenseless. 

PRETENDANT:  A pretender; a claimant. 

PRETENDED:  Making a false appearance; unreal; false; as, pretended friend.  -- Pre*tend"ed*ly, adv. 

PRETENDENCE:  The act of pretending; pretense. [Obs.] Daniel. 

PRETENDER:  The pretender (Eng. Hist.), the son or the grandson of James II., the heir of the royal family of Stuart, who laid claim to the throne of Great Britain, from which the house was excluded by law. It is the shallow, unimproved intellects that are the confident pretenders to certainty. Glanvill.  2. One who pretends, simulates, or feigns. 

PRETENDERSHIP:  The character, right, or claim of a pretender. Swift. 

PRETENDINGLY:  As by right or title; arrogantly; presumptuously. Collier.  PRETENSE; PRETENCE Pre*tense", Pre*tence, n. Etym: [LL. praetensus, for L. praetentus, p. p. of praetendere. See Pretend, and cf. Tension.]  1. The act of laying claim; the claim laid; assumption; pretension. Spenser. Primogeniture can not have any pretense to a right of solely inheriting property or power. Locke. I went to Lambeth with Sir R. Brown's pretense to the wardenship of Merton College, Oxford. Evelyn.  2. The act of holding out, or offering, to others something false or feigned; presentation of what is deceptive or hypocritical; deception by showing what is unreal and concealing what is real; false show; simulation; as, pretense of illness; under pretense of patriotism; on pretense of revenging Cæsar's death.  3. That which is pretended; false, deceptive, or hypocritical show, argument, or reason; pretext; feint. Let not the Trojans, with a feigned pretense Of proffered peace, delude the Latian prince. Dryden.  4. Intention; design. [Obs.] A very pretense and purpose of unkindness. Shak.  Note: See the Note under Offense.  Syn.  -- Mask; appearance; color; show; pretext; excuse.  -- Pretense, Pretext. A pretense is something held out as real when it is not so, thus falsifying the truth. A pretext is something woven up in order to cover or conceal one's true motives, feelings, or reasons. Pretext is often, but not always, used in a bad sense. 

PRETENSED:  Pretended; feigned. [Obs.] -- Pre*tens"ed*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

PRETENSEFUL:  Abounding in pretenses. 

PRETENSELESS:  Not having or making pretenses. 

PRETENTATIVE:  Fitted for trial beforehand; experimental. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. 

PRETENTIOUS:  Full of pretension; disposed to lay claim to more than is one's; presuming; assuming.  -- Pre*ten"tious*ly, adv.  -- Pre*ten"tious*ness, n.  PRETER- Pre"ter-. Etym: [L. praeter past, beyond, originally a compar. of prae before. See For, prep.]  A prefix signifying past, by, beyond, more than; as, preter- mission, a permitting to go by; preternatural, beyond or more than is natural. [Written also præter.] 

PRETERHUMAN:  More than human. 

PRETERIENT:  Passed through; antecedent; previous; as, preterient states. [R.] 

PRETERIMPERFECT:  Old name of the tense also called imperfect. 

PRETERIST:  One who believes the prophecies of the Apocalypse to have been already fulfilled. Farrar. 

PRETERIT:  Past; -- applied to a tense which expresses an action or state as past.  2. Belonging wholly to the past; passed by. [R.] Things and persons as thoroughly preterite as Romulus or Numa. Lowell. 

PRETERIT:  The preterit; also, a word in the preterit tense. 

PRETERITE:  Same as Preterit. 

PRETERITENESS:  Same as Preteritness. 

PRETERITION:  A figure by which, in pretending to pass over anything, a summary mention of it is made; as, "I will not say, he is valiant, he is learned, he is just." Called also paraleipsis.  3. (Law)  The omission by a testator of some one of his heirs who is entitled to a portion. Bouvier. 

PRETERITIVE:  Used only or chiefly in the preterit or past tenses, as certain verbs. 

PRETERITNESS:  The quality or state of being past. Bentley. Lowell. 

PRETERLAPSED:  Past; as, preterlapsed ages. [R.] Glanvill. 

PRETERLEGAL:  Exceeding the limits of law. [R.] 

PRETERMISSION:  See Preterition. 

PRETERMIT:  To pass by; to omit; to disregard. Bacon. 

PRETERNATURAL:  Beyond of different from what is natural, or according to the regular course of things, but not clearly supernatural or miraculous; strange; inexplicable; extraordinary; uncommon; irregular; abnormal; as, a preternatural appearance; a preternatural stillness; a preternatural presentation (in childbirth) or labor. This vile and preternatural temper of mind. South.  Syn.  -- See Supernatural. 

PRETERNATURALISM:  The state of being preternatural; a preternatural condition. 

PRETERNATURALITY:  Preternaturalness. [R.] Dr. John Smith. 

PRETERNATURALLY:  In a preternatural manner or degree. Bacon. 

PRETERNATURALNESS:  The quality or state of being preternatural. 

PRETERPERFECT:  Old name of the tense also called preterit. 

PRETERPLUPERFECT:  Old name of the tense also called pluperfect. 

PRETERTIARY:  Earlier than Tertiary. 

PRETERVECTION:  The act of carrying past or beyond. [R.] Abp. Potter. 

PRETEX:  To frame; to devise; to disguise or excuse; hence, to pretend; to declare falsely. [Obs.] 

PRETEXT:  Ostensible reason or motive assigned or assumed as a color or cover for the real reason or motive; pretense; disguise. They suck the blood of those they depend on, under a pretext of service and kindness. L'Estrange. With how much or how little pretext of reason. Dr. H. More.  Syn.  -- Pretense; excuse; semblance; disguise; appearance. See Pretense. 

PRETEXTURE:  A pretext. [Obs.] 

PRETIBIAL:  Situated in front of the tibia. 

PRETOR:  A civil officer or magistrate among the ancient Romans.  Note: Originally the pretor was a kind of third consul; but at an early period two pretors were appointed, the first of whom (praetor urbanus) was a kind of mayor or city judge; the other (praetor peregrinus) was a judge of cases in which one or both of the parties were foreigners. Still later, the number of pretors, or judges, was further increased.  2. Hence, a mayor or magistrate. [R.] Dryden. 

PRETORIAL:  Pretorian. Burke. 

PRETORIAN:  Of or pertaining to a pretor or magistrate; judicial; exercised by, or belonging to, a pretor; as, pretorian power or authority. Pretorian bands or guards, or Pretorians (Rom. Hist.), the emperor's bodyguards, instituted by the Emperor Augustus in nine cohorts of 1,000 men each.  -- Pretorian gate (Rom. Antiq.), that one of the four gates in a camp which lay next the enemy. Brande & C. 

PRETORIAN:  A soldier of the pretorian guard. 

PRETORSHIP:  The office or dignity of a pretor. J. Warton 

PRETORTURE:  To torture beforehand. Fuller. 

PRETTILY:  In a pretty manner. 

PRETTINESS:  The quality or state of being pretty; -- used sometimes in a disparaging sense. A style . . . without sententious pretension or antithetical prettiness. Jeffrey. 

PRETTY:  In some degree; moderately; considerably; rather; almost; -- less emphatic than very; as, I am pretty sure of the fact; pretty cold weather. Pretty plainly professes himself a sincere Christian. Atterbury. 

PRETTYISH:  Somewhat pretty. Walpole. 

PRETTYISM:  Affectation of a pretty style, manner, etc. [R.] Ed. Rev.  PRETTY-SPOKEN Pret"ty-spo`ken, a.  Spoken or speaking prettily. [Colloq.] 

PRETYPIFY:  To prefigure; to exhibit previously in a type. Bp. Pearson. 

PRETZEL:  A kind of German biscuit or cake in the form of a twisted ring, salted on the outside. 

PREVAILINGLY:  So as to prevail. 

PREVAILMENT:  Prevalence; superior influence; efficacy. [Obs.] Shak. 

PREVALENCE:  The quality or condition of being prevalent; superior strength, force, or influence; general existence, reception, or practice; wide extension; as, the prevalence of virtue, of a fashion, or of a disease; the prevalence of a rumor. The duke better knew what kind of argument were of prevalence with him. Clarendon. 

PREVALENCY:  See Prevalence. 

PREVALENTLY:  In a prevalent manner. Prior. 

PREVARICATE:  To collude, as where an informer colludes with the defendant, and makes a sham prosecution.  3. (Eng. Law)  To undertake a thing falsely and deceitfully, with the purpose of defeating or destroying it.  Syn.  -- To evade; equivocate; quibble; shuffle.  -- Prevaricate, Evade, Equivocate. One who evades a question ostensibly answers it, but really turns aside to some other point. He who equivocate uses words which have a double meaning, so that in one sense he can claim to have said the truth, though he does in fact deceive, and intends to do it. He who prevaricates talks all round the question, hoping to "dodge" it, and disclose nothing. 

PREVARICATE:  To evade by a quibble; to transgress; to pervert. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

PREVARICATOR:  A sham dealer; one who colludes with a defendant in a sham prosecution.  3. One who betrays or abuses a trust. Prynne. 

PREVE:  To prove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PREVE:  Proof. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PREVENANCE:  A going before; anticipation in sequence or order. "The law of prevenance is simply the well-known law of phenomenal sequence." Ward. 

PREVENANCY:  The act of anticipating another's wishes, desires, etc., in the way of favor or courtesy; hence, civility; obligingness. [Obs.] Sterne. 

PREVENE:  To come before; to anticipate; hence, to hinder; to prevent. [Obs.] Philips. 

PREVENIENCE:  The act of going before; anticipation. [R.] 

PREVENIENT:  Going before; preceding; hence, preventive. "Prevenient grace descending." Milton. 

PREVENT:  To come before the usual time. [Obs.] Strawberries . . . will prevent and come early. Bacon. 

PREVENTABILITY:  The quality or state of being preventable. 

PREVENTABLE:  Capable of being prevented or hindered; as, preventable diseases. 

PREVENTATIVE:  That which prevents; -- incorrectly used instead of preventive. 

PREVENTER:  An auxiliary rope to strengthen a mast. Preventer bolts, or Preventer plates (Naut.), fixtures connected with preventers to reënforce other rigging.  -- Preventer stay. (Naut.) Same as Preventer, 3. 

PREVENTINGLY:  So as to prevent or hinder. 

PREVENTIONAL:  Tending to prevent. [Obs.] 

PREVENTIVE:  That which prevents, hinders, or obstructs; that which intercepts access; in medicine, something to prevent disease; a prophylactic. 

PREVENTIVELY:  In a preventive manner. 

PREVERTEBRAL:  Situated immediately in front, or on the ventral side, of the vertebral column; prespinal. 

PREVIOUS:  Going before in time; being or happening before something else; antecedent; prior; as, previous arrangements; a previous illness. The dull sound . . . previous to the storm, Rolls o'er the muttering earth. Thomson. Previous question. (Parliamentary Practice) See under Question, and compare Closure.  -- Previous to, before; -- often used adverbially for previously. "Previous to publication." M. Arnold. "A policy . . . his friends had advised previous to 1710." J. H. Newman.  Syn.  -- Antecedent; preceding; anterior; prior; foregoing; former. 

PREVIOUSLY:  Beforehand; antecedently; as, a plan previously formed. 

PREVIOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being previous; priority or antecedence in time. 

PREVISION:  Foresight; foreknowledge; prescience. H. Spencer. 

PREVOYANT:  Foreseeing; prescient. [R.] Mrs. Oliphant. 

PREWARN:  To warn beforehand; to forewarn. [R.] 

PREY:  Anything, as goods, etc., taken or got by violence; anything taken by force from an enemy in war; spoil; booty; plunder. And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, unto Moses, and Eleazar the priest. Num. xxxi. 12.  2. That which is or may be seized by animals or birds to be devoured; hence, a person given up as a victim. The old lion perisheth for lack of prey. Job iv. ii. Already sees herself the monster's prey. Dryden.  3. The act of devouring other creatures; ravage. Hog in sloth, fox in stealth, . . . lion in prey. Shak. Beast of prey, a carnivorous animal; one that feeds on the flesh of other animals. 

PREY:  To take booty; to gather spoil; to ravage; to take food by violence. More pity that the eagle should be mewed, While kites and buzzards prey at liberty. Shak. To prey on or upon. (a) To take prey from; to despoil; to pillage; to rob. Shak. (b) To seize as prey; to take for food by violence; to seize and devour. Shak. (c) To wear away gradually; to cause to waste or pine away; as, the trouble preyed upon his mind. Addison. 

PREYER:  One who, or that which, preys; a plunderer; a waster; a devourer. Hooker. 

PREZYGAPOPHYSIS:  An anterior zygapophysis. 

PRIAL:  A corruption of pair royal. See under Pair, n. 

PRIAN:  A fine, white, somewhat friable clay; also, the ore contained in a mixture of clay and pebbles. [Written also pryan.] 

PRIAPEAN:  A species of hexameter verse so constructed as to be divisible into two portions of three feet each, having generally a trochee in the first and the fourth foot, and an amphimacer in the third; -- applied also to a regular hexameter verse when so constructed as to be divisible into two portions of three feet each. Andrews. 

PRIAPISM:  More or less permanent erection and rigidity of the penis, with or without sexual desire. 

PRIAPULACEA:  A suborder of Gephyræa, having a cylindrical body with a terminal anal opening, and usually with one or two caudal gills. 

PRICASOUR:  A hard rider. [Obs.] 

PRICED:  Rated in price; valued; as, high-priced goods; low-priced labor. 

PRICEITE:  A hydrous borate of lime, from Oregon. 

PRICK:  A small roll; as, a prick of spun yarn; a prick of tobacco. 

PRICK:  Having erect, pointed ears; -- said of certain dogs. Thou prick-eared cur of Iceland. Shak. 

PRICKER:  A small marline spike having generally a wooden handle, -- used in sailmaking. R. H. Dana, Ir. 

PRICKET:  A buck in his second year. See Note under 3d Buck. Shak. 

PRICKING:  The first coating of plaster in work of three coats upon laths. Its surface is scratched once to form a better key for the next coat. In the United States called scratch coat. Brande & C. 

PRICKLE:  To prick slightly, as with prickles, or fine, sharp points. Felt a horror over me creep, Prickle skin, and catch my breath. Tennyson.  PRICKLEBACK; PRICKLEFISH Pric"kle*back`, Pric"kle*fish`, n. (Zoöl.)  The stickleback. 

PRICKLINESS:  The quality of being prickly, or of having many prickles. 

PRICKLING:  Prickly. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PRICKLOUSE:  A tailor; -- so called in contempt. [Old slang] L'Estrange. 

PRICKLY:  Full of sharp points or prickles; armed or covered with prickles; as, a prickly shrub. Prickly ash (Bot.), a prickly shrub (Xanthoxylum Americanum) with yellowish flowers appearing with the leaves. All parts of the plant are pungent and aromatic. The southern species is X. Carolinianum. Gray.  -- Prickly heat (Med.), a noncontagious cutaneous eruption of red pimples, attended with intense itching and tingling of the parts affected. It is due to inflammation of the sweat glands, and is often brought on by overheating the skin in hot weather.  -- Prickly pear (Bot.), a name given to several plants of the cactaceous genus Opuntia, American plants consisting of fleshy, leafless, usually flattened, and often prickly joints inserted upon each other. The sessile flowers have many petals and numerous stamens. The edible fruit is a large pear-shaped berry containing many flattish seeds. The common species of the Northern Atlantic States is Opuntia vulgaris. In the South and West are many others, and in tropical America more than a hundred more. O. vulgaris, O. Ficus-Indica, and O. Tuna are abundantly introduced in the Mediterranean region, and O. Dillenii has become common in India.  -- Prickly pole (Bot.), a West Indian palm (Bactris Plumierana), the slender trunk of which bears many rings of long black prickles.  -- Prickly withe (Bot.), a West Indian cactaceous plant (Cereus triangularis) having prickly, slender, climbing, triangular stems.  -- Prickly rat (Zoöl.), any one of several species of South American burrowing rodents belonging to Ctenomys and allied genera. The hair is usually intermingled with sharp spines. 

PRICKMADAM:  A name given to several species of stonecrop, used as ingredients of vermifuge medicines. See Stonecrop. 

PRICKPUNCH:  A pointed steel punch, to prick a mark on metal. 

PRICKSHAFT:  An arrow. [Obs.] 

PRICKSONG:  Music written, or noted, with dots or points; -- so called from the points or dots with which it is noted down. [Obs.] He fights as you sing pricksong. Shak. 

PRICKWOOD:  A shrub (Euonymus Europæus); -- so named from the use of its wood for goads, skewers, and shoe pegs. Called also spindle tree. 

PRICKY:  Stiff and sharp; prickly. Holland. 

PRIDE:  A small European lamprey (Petromyzon branchialis); -- called also prid, and sandpiper. 

PRIDE:  To indulge in pride, or self-esteem; to rate highly; to plume; -- used reflexively. Bp. Hall. Pluming and priding himself in all his services. South. 

PRIDE:  To be proud; to glory. [R.] 

PRIDEFUL:  Full of pride; haughty. Tennyson.  -- Pride"ful*ly, adv.  -- Pride"ful-ness, n. 

PRIDELESS:  Without pride. Chaucer. 

PRIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the day before, or yesterday. [R.] Thackeray. 

PRIDINGLY:  Proudly. [Obs.] 

PRIE:  The plant privet. [Obs.] Tusser. 

PRIE:  To pry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PRIED:  imp. & p. p. of Pry. 

PRIEDIEU:  A kneeling desk for prayers. 

PRIEF:  Proof. [Obs.] Spenser. Lydgate. 

PRIER:  One who pries; one who inquires narrowly and searches, or is inquisitive. So pragmatical a prier he is into divine secrets. Fuller. 

PRIEST:  A presbyter elder; a minister; specifically: (a) (R. C. Ch. & Gr. Ch.) One who is authorized to consecrate the host and to say Mass; but especially, one of the lowest order possessing this power. Murdock. (b) (Ch. of Eng. & Prot. Epis. Ch.)  A presbyter; one who belongs to the intermediate order between bishop and deacon. He is authorized to perform all ministerial services except those of ordination and confirmation.  2. One who officiates at the altar, or performs the rites of sacrifice; one who acts as a mediator between men and the divinity or the gods in any form of religion; as, Buddhist priests. "The priests of Dagon." 1 Sam. v. 5. Then the priest of Jupiter . . . brought oxen and garlands . . . and would have done sacrifice with the people. Acts xiv. 13. Every priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins. Heb. v. 1.  Note: In the New Testament presbyters are not called priests; but Christ is designated as a priest, and as a high priest, and all Christians are designated priests. 

PRIEST:  To ordain as priest. 

PRIESTCAP:  A form of redan, so named from its shape; -- called also swallowtail. 

PRIESTCRAFT:  Priestly policy; the policy of a priesthood; esp., in an ill sense, fraud or imposition in religious concerns; management by priests to gain wealth and power by working upon the religious motives or credulity of others. It is better that men should be governed by priestcraft than by violence. Macaulay. 

PRIESTERY:  Priests, collectively; the priesthood; -- so called in contempt. [R.] Milton. 

PRIESTESS:  A woman who officiated in sacred rites among pagans. Abp. Potter. 

PRIESTING:  The office of a priest. [Obs.] Milton. 

PRIESTISM:  The influence, doctrines, principles, etc., of priests or the priesthood. [R.] 

PRIESTLESS:  Without a priest. Pope. 

PRIESTLIKE:  Priestly. B. Jonson. 

PRIESTLINESS:  The quality or state of being priestly. R. Browning. 

PRIESTLY:  Of or pertaining to a priest or the priesthood; sacerdotal; befitting or becoming a priest; as, the priestly office; a priestly farewell. Shak.  PRIEST-RIDDEN Priest"-rid`den, a.  Controlled or oppressed by priests; as, a priest-ridden people. Swift. 

PRIEVE:  To prove. [Obs. or Scot.] 

PRIG:  To haggle about the price of a commodity; to bargain hard. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

PRIG:  To filch or steal; as, to prig a handkerchief. [Cant] 

PRIGGERY:  Priggism. 

PRIGGISH:  Like a prig; conceited; pragmatical.  -- Prig"gish*ly, adv.  -- Prig"gish-ness, n. 

PRIGHTE:  imp. of Prick. Chaucer. 

PRILL:  The brill. 

PRILL:  To flow. [Obs.] Stow. 

PRILL:  A stream. [Obs.] Davies (Microcosmos). 

PRILLION:  Tin extracted from the slag. 

PRIM:  The privet. 

PRIM:  Formal; precise; affectedly neat or nice; as, prim regularity; a prim person. Swift. 

PRIM:  To deck with great nicety; to arrange with affected preciseness; to prink. 

PRIM:  To dress or act smartly. [R.] 

PRIMACY:  The first or chief female singer in an opera.  PRIMA FACIE Pri"ma fa"ci*e. Etym: [L., from abl. of primus first + abl. of facies appearance.]  At first view; on the first appearance. Prima facie evidence (of a fact) (Law), evidence which is sufficient to establish the fact unless rebutted. Bouvier. 

PRIMAGE:  A charge in addition to the freight; originally, a gratuity to the captain for his particular care of the goods (sometimes called hat money), but now belonging to the owners or freighters of the vessel, unless by special agreement the whole or part is assigned to the captain. Homans. 

PRIMAL:  First; primary; original; chief. It hath the primal eldest curse upon it. Shak. The primal duties shine aloft like stars. Wordsworth. 

PRIMALITY:  The quality or state of being primal. [Obs.] 

PRIMARILY:  In a primary manner; in the first place; in the first place; in the first intention; originally. 

PRIMARINESS:  The quality or state of being primary, or first in time, in act, or in intention. Norris. 

PRIMARY:  Earliest formed; fundamental.  5. (Chem.)  Illustrating, possessing, or characterized by, some quality or property in the first degree; having undergone the first stage of substitution or replacement. Primary alcohol (Organic Chem.), any alcohol which possess the group CH2.OH, and can be oxidized so as to form a corresponding aldehyde and acid having the same number of carbon atoms; -- distinguished from secondary and tertiary alcohols.  -- Primary amine (Chem.), an amine containing the amido group, or a derivative of ammonia in which only one atom of hydrogen has been replaced by a basic radical; -- distinguished from secondary and tertiary amines.  -- Primary amputation (Surg.), an amputation for injury performed as soon as the shock due to the injury has passed away, and before symptoms of inflammation supervene.  -- Primary axis (Bot.), the main stalk which bears a whole cluster of flowers.  -- Primary colors. See under Color.  -- Primary meeting, a meeting of citizens at which the first steps are taken towards the nomination of candidates, etc. See Caucus.  -- Primary pinna (Bot.), one of those portions of a compound leaf or frond which branch off directly from the main rhachis or stem, whether simple or compounded.  -- Primary planets. (Astron.) See the Note under Planet.  -- Primary qualities of bodies, such are essential to and inseparable from them.  -- Primary quills (Zoöl.), the largest feathers of the wing of a bird; primaries.  -- Primary rocks (Geol.), a term early used for rocks supposed to have been first formed, being crystalline and containing no organic remains, as granite, gneiss, etc.; -- called also primitive rocks. The terms Secondary, Tertiary, and Quaternary rocks have also been used in like manner, but of these the last two only are now in use.  -- Primary salt (Chem.), a salt derived from a polybasic acid in which only one acid hydrogen atom has been replaced by a base or basic radical.  -- Primary syphilis (Med.), the initial stage of syphilis, including the period from the development of the original lesion or chancre to the first manifestation of symptoms indicative of general constitutional infection.  -- Primary union (Surg.), union without suppuration; union by the first intention. 

PRIMARY:  One of the large feathers on the distal joint of a bird's wing. See Plumage, and Illust. of Bird.  4. (Astron.)  A primary planet; the brighter component of a double star. See under Planet. 

PRIMATE:  One of the Primates. 

PRIMATES:  The highest order of mammals. It includes man, together with the apes and monkeys. Cf. Pitheci. 

PRIMATESHIP:  The office, dignity, or position of a primate; primacy. 

PRIMATIAL:  Primatical. [R.] D'Anville (Trans. ). 

PRIMATICAL:  Of or pertaining to a primate. Barrow. 

PRIME:  The morning; specifically (R. C. Ch.), the first canonical hour, succeeding to lauds. Early and late it rung, at evening and at prime. Spenser.  Note: Originally, prime denoted the first quarter of the artificial day, reckoned from 6 a. m. to 6 p. m. Afterwards, it denoted the end of the first quarter, that is, 9 a. a. Specifically, it denoted the first canonical hour, as now. Chaucer uses it in all these senses, and also in the sense of def. 1, above. They sleep till that it was pryme large. Chaucer.  5. (Fencing)  The first of the chief guards.  6. (Chem.)  Any number expressing the combining weight or equivalent of any particular element; -- so called because these numbers were respectively reduced to their lowest relative terms on the fixed standard of hydrogen as 1. [Obs. or Archaic]  7. (Arith.)  A prime number. See under Prime, a.  8. An inch, as composed of twelve seconds in the duodecimal system; - - denoted by [']. See 2d Inch, n., 1. Prime of the moon, the new moon at its first appearance. 

PRIME:  To mark with a prime mark. To prime a pump, to charge a pump with water, in order to put it in working condition. 

PRIMER:  One who, or that which, primes; specifically, an instrument or device for priming; esp., a cap, tube, or water containing percussion powder or other capable for igniting a charge of gunpowder. 

PRIMER:  First; original; primary. [Obs.] "The primer English kings." Drayton. Primer fine (O. Eng. Law), a fine due to the king on the writ or commencement of a suit by fine. Blackstone.  -- Primer seizin (Feudal Law), the right of the king, when a tenant in capite died seized of a knight's fee, to receive of the heir, if of full age, one year's profits of the land if in possession, and half a year's profits if the land was in reversion expectant on an estate for life; -- now abolished. Blackstone. 

PRIMER:  A kind of type, of which there are two species; one, called long primer, intermediate in size between bourgeois and small pica [see Long primer]; the other, called great primer, larger than pica.  Note: Great primer type. 

PRIMERO:  A game at cards, now unknown. Shak. 

PRIMEROLE:  See Primrose. [Obs.] "She was a primerole." Chaucer. 

PRIMEVAL:  Belonging to the first ages; pristine; original; primitive; primary; as, the primeval innocence of man. "This is the forest primeval." Longfellow. From chaos, and primeval darkness, came Light. Keats. 

PRIMEVALLY:  In a primeval manner; in or from the earliest times; originally. Darwin. 

PRIMEVOUS:  Primeval. [Obs.] 

PRIMIGENIAL:  First born, or first of all; original; primary. See Primogenial.  PRIMIGENIOUS; PRIMIGENOUS Pri`mi*ge"ni*ous, Pri*mig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. primigenus, primigenius. See Primogeniture.]  First formed or generated; original; primigenial. Bp. Hall. 

PRIMINE:  The outermost of the two integuments of an ovule.  Note: This word has been used by some writers to denote the inner integument, which is formed earlier than the outer. Cf. Secundine. 

PRIMING:  The first coating of color, size, or the like, laid on canvas, or on a building, or other surface.  3. (Steam Eng.)  The carrying over of water, with the steam, from the boiler, as into the cylinder. Priming of the tide. See Lag of the tide, under 2d Lag.  -- Priming tube, a small pipe, filled with a combustible composition for firing cannon.  -- Priming valve (Steam Eng.), a spring safety valve applied to the cylinder of a steam engine for discharging water carried into the cylinder by priming.  -- Priming wire, a pointed wire used to penetrate the vent of a piece, for piercing the cartridge before priming. 

PRIMIPARA:  A woman who bears a child for the first time. 

PRIMIPAROUS:  Belonging to a first birth; bearing young for the first time. 

PRIMIPILAR:  Of or pertaining to the captain of the vanguard of a Roman army. Barrow. 

PRIMITIA:  The first fruit; the first year's whole profit of an ecclesiastical preferment. The primitias of your parsonage. Spenser. 

PRIMITIAL:  Being of the first production; primitive; original. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

PRIMITIVE:  An original or primary word; a word not derived from another; - - opposed to derivative. 

PRIMITIVENESS:  The quality or state of being primitive; conformity to primitive style or practice. 

PRIMITY:  Quality of being first; primitiveness. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

PRIMLY:  In a prim or precise manner. 

PRIMNESS:  The quality or state of being prim; affected formality or niceness; preciseness; stiffness. 

PRIMO:  First; chief. 

PRIMOGENIAL:  First born, made, or generated; original; primary; elemental; as, primogenial light. Glanvill. 

PRIMOGENITIVE:  Of or pertaining to primogeniture. [R.] 

PRIMOGENITIVE:  Primogeniture. [Obs.] The primogenitive and due of birth. Shak. 

PRIMOGENITOR:  The first ancestor; a forefather. 

PRIMOGENITURE:  The exclusive right of inheritance which belongs to the eldest son. Thus in England the right of inheriting the estate of the father belongs to the eldest son, and in the royal family the eldest son of the sovereign is entitled to the throne by primogeniture. In exceptional cases, among the female children, the crown descends by right of primogeniture to the eldest daughter only and her issue. Blackstone. 

PRIMOGENITURESHIP:  The state or privileges of the firstborn. Burke. 

PRIMORDIAL:  Of or pertaining to the lowest beds of the Silurian age, corresponding to the Acadian and Potsdam periods in American geology. It is called also Cambrian, and by many geologists is separated from the Silurian.  3. (Biol.)  Originally or earliest formed in the growth of an individual or organ; as, a primordial leaf; a primordial cell. Primordial utricle (Bot.), the interior lining of a young vegetable cell. 

PRIMORDIAL:  A first principle or element. 

PRIMORDIALISM:  Devotion to, or persistence in, conditions of the primordial state. H. Spencer. 

PRIMORDIALLY:  At the beginning; under the first order of things; originally. 

PRIMORDIAN:  A name given to several kinds of plums; as, red primordian, amber primordian, etc. 

PRIMORDIATE:  Primordial. [R.] Boyle. 

PRIMP:  To be formal or affected in dress or manners; -- often with up. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 

PRIMROSE:  Of or pertaining to the primrose; of the color of a primrose; - - hence, flowery; gay. "The primrose path of dalliance." Shak.  PRIMROSE LEAGUE Prim"rose` League. (Eng. Politics)  A league of both sexes among the Conservatives, founded in 1883. So called because primrose was (erroneously, it is said) taken to be the favorite flower of the Conservative statesman Benjamin Disraeli, Earl of Beaconsfield. 

PRIMULA:  The genus of plants including the primrose (Primula vera). 

PRIMULACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to an order of herbaceous plants (Primulaceæ), of which the primrose is the type, and the pimpernel, the cyclamen, and the water violet are other examples.  PRIMUM MOBILE Pri"mum mob"i*le. Etym: [L., first cause of motion.] (Astron.)  In the Ptolemaic system, the outermost of the revolving concentric spheres constituting the universe, the motion of which was supposed to carry with it all the inclosed spheres with their planets in a daily revolution from east to west. See Crystalline heavens, under Crystalline. The motions of the greatest persons in a government ought to be, as the motions of the planets, under primum mobile. Bacon. 

PRIMUS:  One of the bishops of the Episcopal Church of Scotland, who presides at the meetings of the bishops, and has certain privileges but no metropolitan authority. Internat. Cyc. 

PRIMY:  Being in its prime. [Obs.] "The youth of primy nature." Shak. 

PRINCE:  To play the prince. [R.] Shak. 

PRINCEDOM:  The jurisdiction, sovereignty, rank, or estate of a prince. Thrones, princedoms, powers, dominions, I reduce. Milton. 

PRINCEHOOD:  Princeliness. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

PRINCEKIN:  A petty prince; a princeling. The princekins of private life. Thackeray. 

PRINCELESS:  Without a prince. Fuller. 

PRINCELET:  A petty prince. [R.] 

PRINCELIKE:  Princely. Shak. 

PRINCELINESS:  The quality of being princely; the state, manner, or dignity of a prince. 

PRINCELING:  A petty prince; a young prince. 

PRINCELY:  In a princely manner. My appetite was not princely got. Shak. 

PRINCESSE:  A term applied to a lady's long, close-fitting dress made with waist and skirt in one. 

PRINCESSLIKE:  Like a princess. 

PRINCEWOOD:  The wood of two small tropical American trees (Hamelia ventricosa, and Cordia gerascanthoides). It is brownish, veined with lighter color. 

PRINCIFIED:  Imitative of a prince. [R. & Colloq.] Thackeray. 

PRINCIPAL:  The first two long feathers of a hawk's wing. Spenser. J. H. Walsh. (f) One of turrets or pinnacles of waxwork and tapers with which the posts and center of a funeral hearse were formerly crowned. Oxf. Gloss. (g) A principal or essential point or rule; a principle. [Obs.] 

PRINCIPALLY:  In a principal manner; primarily; above all; chiefly; mainly. 

PRINCIPALNESS:  The quality of being principal. 

PRINCIPATE:  Principality; supreme rule. [Obs.] Barrow. 

PRINCIPIA:  First principles; fundamental beginnings; elements; as. Newton's Principia. 

PRINCIPIAL:  Elementary. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PRINCIPIANT:  Relating to principles or beginnings. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

PRINCIPIATE:  To begin; to initiate. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

PRINCIPIATION:  Analysis into primary or elemental parts. [Archaic] Bacon. 

PRINCIPLE:  Any original inherent constituent which characterizes a substance, or gives it its essential properties, and which can usually be separated by analysis; -- applied especially to drugs, plant extracts, etc. Cathartine is the bitter, purgative principle of senna. Gregory. Bitter principle, Principle of contradiction, etc. See under Bitter, Contradiction, etc. 

PRINCIPLE:  To equip with principles; to establish, or fix, in certain principles; to impress with any tenet, or rule of conduct, good or ill. Governors should be well principled. L'Estrange. Let an enthusiast be principled that he or his teacher is inspired. Locke.  PRINCOCK; PRINCOX Prin"cock, Prin"cox, n. Etym: [Prim + cock.]  A coxcomb; a pert boy. [Obs.] 

PRINK:  To dress or adjust one's self for show; to prank. 

PRINK:  To prank or dress up; to deck fantastically. "And prink their hair with daisies." Cowper. 

PRINKER:  One who prinks. 

PRINPRIDDLE:  The longtailed titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

PRINT:  To strike off an impression or impressions of, from type, or from stereotype, electrotype, or engraved plates, or the like; in a wider sense, to do the typesetting, presswork, etc., of (a book or other publication); as, to print books, newspapers, pictures; to print an edition of a book.  4. To stamp or impress with colored figures or patterns; as, to print calico.  5. (Photog.)  To take (a copy, a positive picture, etc.), from a negative, a transparent drawing, or the like, by the action of light upon a sensitized surface. Printed goods, textile fabrics printed in patterns, especially cotton cloths, or calicoes. 

PRINT:  A core print. See under Core. Blue print, a copy in white lines on a blue ground, of a drawing, plan, tracing, etc., or a positive picture in blue and white, from a negative, produced by photographic printing on peculiarly prepared paper.blueprint for action -- In print. (a) In a printed form; issued from the press; published. Shak. (b) To the letter; with accurateness. "All this I speak in print." Shak.  -- Out of print. See under Out.  -- Print works, a factory where cloth, as calico, is printed.  PRINTA-BLE Print"a-ble, a.  Worthy to be published. [R.] 

PRINTER:  One who prints; especially, one who prints books, newspapers, engravings, etc., a compositor; a typesetter; a pressman. Printer's devil, Printer's gauge. See under Devil, and Gauge.  -- Printer's ink. See Printing ink, below. 

PRINTERY:  A place where cloth is printed; print works; also, a printing office. [R.] 

PRINTING:  The act, art, or practice of impressing letters, characters, or figures on paper, cloth, or other material; the business of a printer, including typesetting and presswork, with their adjuncts; typography; also, the act of producing photographic prints. Block printing. See under Block.  -- Printing frame (Photog.), a shallow box, usually having a glass front, in which prints are made by exposure to light.  -- Printing house, a printing office.  -- Printing ink, ink used in printing books, newspapers, etc. It is composed of lampblack or ivory black mingled with linseed or nut oil, made thick by boiling and burning. Other ingredients are employed for the finer qualities. Ure.  -- Printing office, a place where books, pamphlets, or newspapers, etc., are printed.  -- Printing paper, paper used in the printing of books, pamphlets, newspapers, and the like, as distinguished from writing paper, wrapping paper, etc.  -- Printing press, a press for printing, books, newspaper, handbills, etc.  -- Printing wheel, a wheel with letters or figures on its periphery, used in machines for paging or numbering, or in ticket-printing machines, typewriters, etc.; a type wheel.  PRINTING IN Print"ing in. (Photog.)  A process by which cloud effects or other features not in the original negative are introduced into a photograph. Portions, such as the sky, are covered while printing and the blank space thus reserved is filled in by printing from another negative.  PRINTING OUT Printing out. (Photog.)  A method of printing, in which the image is fully brought out by the direct actinic action of light without subsequent development by means of chemicals. 

PRINTLESS:  Making no imprint. Milton. 

PRINTLESS:  Making no imprint. Milton. 

PRINTSHOP:  A shop where prints are sold. 

PRIOR:  Preceding in the order of time; former; antecedent; anterior; previous; as, a prior discovery; prior obligation; -- used elliptically in cases like the following: he lived alone [in the time] prior to his marriage. 

PRIOR:  The superior of a priory, and next below an abbot in dignity. Conventical, or Conventual, prior, a prior who is at the head of his own house. See the Note under Priory.  -- Claustral prior, an official next in rank to the abbot in a monastery; prior of the cloisters. 

PRIORATE:  The dignity, office, or government, of a prior. T. Warton. 

PRIORESS:  A lady superior of a priory of nuns, and next in dignity to an abbess. 

PRIORLY:  Previously. [R.] Geddes. 

PRIORSHIP:  The state or office of prior; priorate. 

PRIORY:  A religious house presided over by a prior or prioress; -- sometimes an offshoot of, an subordinate to, an abbey, and called also cell, and obedience. See Cell, 2.  Note: Of such houses there were two sorts: one where the prior was chosen by the inmates, and governed as independently as an abbot in an abbey; the other where the priory was subordinate to an abbey, and the prior was placed or displaced at the will of the abbot. Alien priory, a small religious house dependent on a large monastery in some other country.  Syn.  -- See Cloister. 

PRIS:  See Price, and 1st Prize. [Obs.] 

PRISCILLIANIST:  A follower of Priscillian, bishop of Avila in Spain, in the fourth century, who mixed various elements of Gnosticism and Manicheism with Christianity. 

PRISE:  An enterprise. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PRISE:  See Prize, n., 5. Also Prize, v. t. 

PRISER:  See 1st Prizer. [Obs.] 

PRISM:  A solid whose bases or ends are any similar, equal, and parallel plane figures, and whose sides are parallelograms.  Note: Prisms of different forms are often named from the figure of their bases; as, a triangular prism, a quadrangular prism, a rhombic prism, etc.  2. (Opt.)  A transparent body, with usually three rectangular plane faces or sides, and two equal and parallel triangular ends or bases; -- used in experiments on refraction, dispersion, etc.  3. (Crystallog.)  A form the planes of which are parallel to the vertical axis. See Form, n., 13. Achromatic prism (Opt.), a prism composed usually of two prisms of different transparent substances which have unequal dispersive powers, as two different kinds of glass, especially flint glass and crown glass, the difference of dispersive power being compensated by giving them different refracting angles, so that, when placed together so as to have opposite relative positions, a ray of light passed through them is refracted or bent into a new position, but is free from color.  -- Nicol's prism, Nicol prism. Etym: [So called from Wm. Nicol, of Edinburgh, who first proposed it.] (Opt.) An instrument for experiments in polarization, consisting of a rhomb of Iceland spar, which has been bisected obliquely at a certain angle, and the two parts again joined with transparent cement, so that the ordinary image produced by double refraction is thrown out of the field by total reflection from the internal cemented surface, and the extraordinary, or polarized, image alone is transmitted.  PRISMATIC; PRISMATICAL Pris*mat"ic, Pris*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. prismatique.]  1. Resembling, or pertaining to, a prism; as, a prismatic form or cleavage.  2. Separated or distributed by a prism; formed by a prism; as, prismatic colors.  3. (Crystallog.)  Same as Orthorhombic. Prismatic borax (Chem.), borax crystallized in the form of oblique prisms, with ten molecules of water; -- distinguished from octahedral borax.  -- Prismatic colors (Opt.), the seven colors into which light is resolved when passed through a prism; primary colors. See Primary colors, under Color.  -- Prismatic compass (Surv.), a compass having a prism for viewing a distant object and the compass card at the same time.  -- Prismatic spectrum (Opt.), the spectrum produced by the passage of light through a prism. 

PRISMATICALLY:  In the form on manner of a prism; by means of a prism. 

PRISMATOIDAL:  Having a prismlike form. Ure.  PRISM GLASS Prism glass.  Glass with one side smooth and the other side formed into sharp-edged ridges so as to reflect the light that passes through, used at windows to throw the light into the interior. 

PRISMOID:  A body that approaches to the form of a prism. 

PRISMOIDAL:  Having the form of a prismoid; as, prismoidal solids. 

PRISMY:  Pertaining to a prism. [R.] 

PRISONMENT:  Imprisonment. [Obs.] Shak. 

PRISTINATE:  Pristine; primitive. [Obs.] "Pristinate idolatry." Holinshed. 

PRISTINE:  Belonging to the earliest period or state; original; primitive; primeval; as, the pristine state of innocence; the pristine manners of a people; pristine vigor. 

PRITCHEL:  A tool employed by blacksmiths for punching or enlarging the nail holes in a horseshoe. 

PRITHEE:  A corruption of pray thee; as, I prithee; generally used without I. Shak. What was that scream for, I prithee L'Estrange. Prithee, tell me, Dimple-chin. E. C. Stedman.  PRITTLE-PRATTLE Prit"tle-prat`tle, n. Etym: [See Prattle.]  Empty talk; trifling loquacity; prattle; -- used in contempt or ridicule. [Colloq.] Abp. Bramhall. 

PRIVADO:  A private friend; a confidential friend; a confidant. [Obs.] Fuller. 

PRIVATDOCENT:  In the universities of Germany and some other European countries, a licensed teacher or lecturer having no share in the university government and dependent upon fees for remuneration. 

PRIVATE:  A common soldier; a soldier below the grade of a noncommissioned officer. Macaulay.  6. pl.  The private parts; the genitals. In private, secretly; not openly or publicly. 

PRIVATEER:  To cruise in a privateer. 

PRIVATEERING:  Cruising in a privateer. 

PRIVATEERSMAN:  An officer or seaman of a privateer. 

PRIVATIVE:  Implying privation or negation; giving a negative force to a word; as, alpha privative; privative particles; -- applied to such prefixes and suffixes as a- (Gr. un-, non-, -less. 

PRIVATIVE:  A term indicating the absence of any quality which might be naturally or rationally expected; -- called also privative term.  3. (Gram.)  A privative prefix or suffix. See Privative, a., 3. 

PRIVATIVELY:  In a privative manner; by the absence of something; negatively. [R.] Hammond. 

PRIVATIVENESS:  The state of being privative. 

PRIVET:  An ornamental European shrub (Ligustrum vulgare), much used in hedges; -- called also prim. Egyptian privet. See Lawsonia.  -- Evergreen privet, a plant of the genus Rhamnus. See Alatern.  -- Mock privet, any one of several evergreen shrubs of the genus Phillyrea. They are from the Mediterranean region, and have been much cultivated for hedges and for fancifully clipped shrubberies. 

PRIVILEGE:  See Call, Put, Spread, etc. Breach of privilege. See under Breach.  -- Question of privilege (Parliamentary practice), a question which concerns the security of a member of a legislative body in his special privileges as such.  -- Water privilege, the advantage of having machinery driven by a stream, or a place affording such advantage. [ U. S.] -- Writ of privilege (Law), a writ to deliver a privileged person from custody when arrested in a civil suit. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- Prerogative; immunity; franchise; right; claim; liberty.  -- Privilege, Prerogative. Privilege, among the Romans, was something conferred upon an individual by a private law; and hence, it denotes some peculiar benefit or advantage, some right or immunity, not enjoyed by the world at large. Prerogative, among the Romans, was the right of voting first; and, hence, it denotes a right of precedence, or of doing certain acts, or enjoying certain privileges, to the exclusion of others. It is the privilege of a member of Congress not to be called in question elsewhere for words uttered in debate. It is the prerogative of the president to nominate judges and executive officers. It is the privilege of a Christian child to be instructed in the true religion. It is the prerogative of a parent to govern and direct his children. 

PRIVILEGED:  Invested with a privilege; enjoying a peculiar right, advantage, or immunity. Privileged communication. (Law) (a) A communication which can not be disclosed without the consent of the party making it, -- such as those made by a client to his legal adviser, or by persons to their religious or medical advisers. (b) A communication which does not expose the party making it to indictment for libel, -- such as those made by persons communicating confidentially with a government, persons consulted confidentially as to the character of servants, etc.  -- Privileged debts (Law), those to which a preference in payment is given out of the estate of a deceased person, or out of the estate of an insolvent. Wharton. Burrill.  -- Privileged witnesses (Law) witnesses who are not obliged to testify as to certain things, as lawyers in relation to their dealings with their clients, and officers of state as to state secrets; also, by statute, clergymen and physicans are placed in the same category, so far as concerns information received by them professionally. 

PRIVILY:  In a privy manner; privately; secretly. Chaucer. 2 Pet. ii. 1. 

PRIVITY:  The genitals; the privates.  5. (Law)  A connection, or bond of union, between parties, as to some particular transaction; mutual or successive relationship to the same rights of property. 

PRIVY:  A partaker; a person having an interest in any action or thing; one who has an interest in an estate created by another; a person having an interest derived from a contract or conveyance to which he is not himself a party. The term, in its proper sense, is distinguished from party. Burrill. Wharton.  2. A necessary house or place; a backhouse. 

PRIZABLE:  Valuable. H. Taylor. 

PRIZE:  To move with a lever; to force up or open; to pry. [Written also prise.] 

PRIZE:  Estimation; valuation. [Obs.] Shak. 

PRIZEMAN:  The winner of a prize. 

PRIZER:  One who estimates or sets the value of a thing; an appraiser. Shak. 

PRIZER:  One who contends for a prize; a prize fighter; a challenger. [Obs.] Shak. Appeareth no man yet to answer the prizer. B. Jonson. 

PRIZING:  The application of a lever to move any weighty body, as a cask, anchor, cannon, car, etc. See Prize, n., 5.  PRO- Pro-. Etym: [L. pro, or Gr. Pro.]  A prefix signifying before, in front, forth, for, in behalf of, in place of, according to; as, propose, to place before; proceed, to go before or forward; project, to throw forward; prologue, part spoken before (the main piece); propel, prognathous; provide, to look out for; pronoun, a word instead of a noun; proconsul, a person acting in place of a consul; proportion, arrangement according to parts. 

PRO:  A Latin preposition signifying for, before, forth. Pro confesso Etym: [L.] (Law), taken as confessed. The action of a court of equity on that portion of the pleading in a particular case which the pleading on the other side does not deny.  -- Pro rata. Etym: [L. See Prorate.] In proportion; proportion.  -- Pro re nata Etym: [L.] (Law), for the existing occasion; as matters are. 

PRO:  For, on, or in behalf of, the affirmative side; -- in contrast with Ant: con. Pro and con, for and against, on the affirmative and on the negative side; as, they debated the question pro and con; -- formerly used also as a verb.  -- Pros and cons, the arguments or reasons on either side. 

PROA:  A sailing canoe of the Ladrone Islands and Malay Archipelago, having its lee side flat and its weather side like that of an ordinary boat. The ends are alike. The canoe is long and narrow, and is kept from overturning by a cigar-shaped log attached to a frame extending several feet to windward. It has been called the flying proa, and is the swiftest sailing craft known. 

PROACH:  See Approach. [Obs.] 

PROATLAS:  A vertebral rudiment in front of the atlas in some reptiles. 

PROBABILIORISM:  The doctrine of the probabiliorists. 

PROBABILIORIST:  One who holds, in opposition to the probabilists, that a man is bound to do that which is most probably right. 

PROBABILISM:  The doctrine of the probabilists. 

PROBABILIST:  One who maintains that a man may do that which has a probability of being right, or which is inculcated by teachers of authority, although other opinions may seem to him still more probable. 

PROBABILITY:  Likelihood of the occurrence of any event in the doctrine of chances, or the ratio of the number of favorable chances to the whole number of chances, favorable and unfavorable. See 1st Chance, n., 5.  Syn.  -- Likeliness; credibleness; likelihood; chance. 

PROBABLY:  In a probable manner; in likelihood. Distinguish between what may possibly and what will probably be done. L'Estrange. 

PROBACY:  Proof; trial. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PROBAL:  Approved; probable. [Obs.] Shak. 

PROBALITY:  Probability. [Obs.] "With as great probality." Holland. 

PROBANG:  A slender elastic rod, as of whalebone, with a sponge on the end, for removing obstructions from the esophagus, etc. 

PROBATE:  Of or belonging to a probate, or court of probate; as, a probate record. Probate Court, or Court of Probate, a court for the probate of wills.  -- Probate duty, a government tax on property passing by will. [Eng.] 

PROBATE:  To obtain the official approval of, as of an instrument purporting to be the last will and testament; as, the executor has probated the will. 

PROBATIONAL:  Probationary. 

PROBATIONARY:  Of or pertaining to probation; serving for trial. To consider this life . . . as a probationary state. Paley. 

PROBATIONERSHIP:  The state of being a probationer; novitiate. Locke. 

PROBATIONSHIP:  A state of probation. 

PROBATIVE:  Serving for trial or proof; probationary; as, probative judgments; probative evidence. South. 

PROBATOR:  One who, when indicted for crime, confessed it, and accused others, his accomplices, in order to obtain pardon; a state's evidence. 

PROBE:  An instrument for examining the depth or other circumstances of a wound, ulcer, or cavity, or the direction of a sinus, of for exploring for bullets, for stones in the bladder, etc. Parr. Probe, or Probe-pointed, scissors (Surg.), scissors used to open wounds, the blade of which, to be thrust into the orifice, has a button at the end. Wiseman. 

PROBEAGLE:  See Porbeagle.  PROBE-POINTED Probe"-point`ed, a. (Surg.)  Having a blunt or button-shaped extremity; -- said of cutting instruments. 

PROBITY:  Tried virtue or integrity; approved moral excellence; honesty; rectitude; uprightness. "Probity of mind." Pope.  Syn.  -- Probity, Integrity. Probity denotes unimpeachable honesty and virtue, shown especially by the performance of those obligations, called imperfect, which the laws of the state do not reach, and can not enforce. Integrity denotes a whole-hearted honesty, and especially that which excludes all injustice that might favor one's self. It has a peculiar reference to uprightness in mutual dealings, transfer of property, and the execution of trusts for others. 

PROBLEM:  Anything which is required to be done; as, in geometry, to bisect a line, to draw a perpendicular; or, in algebra, to find an unknown quantity.  Note: Problem differs from theorem in this, that a problem is something to be done, as to bisect a triangle, to describe a circle, etc.; a theorem is something to be proved, as that all the angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles. Plane problem (Geom.), a problem that can be solved by the use of the rule and compass.  -- Solid problem (Geom.), a problem requiring in its geometric solution the use of a conic section or higher curve.  PROBLEMATIC; PROBLEMATICAL Prob`lem*at"ic, Prob`lem*at"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. problematicus, Gr. problématique.]  Having the nature of a problem; not shown in fact; questionable; uncertain; unsettled; doubtful.  -- Prob`lem*at"ic*al*ly, adv. Diligent inquiries into remote and problematical guilt leave a gate wide open to . . . informers. Swift. 

PROBLEMATIST:  One who proposes problems. [R.] Evelyn. 

PROBLEMATIZE:  To propose problems. [R.] "Hear him problematize." B. Jonson. 

PROBOSCIDATE:  Having a proboscis; proboscidial. 

PROBOSCIDEA:  An order of large mammal 

PROBOSCIDEAN:  Proboscidian. 

PROBOSCIDIAL:  Proboscidate. 

PROBOSCIDIAN:  Pertaining to the Proboscidea.  -- n.  One of the Proboscidea. 

PROBOSCIDIFERA:  An extensive division of pectinibranchiate gastropods, including those that have a long retractile proboscis, with the mouth at the end, as the cones, whelks, tritons, and cowries. See Illust. of Gastropoda, and of Winkle.  2. (Zoöl.)  A subdivision of the tænioglossate gastropods, including the fig-shells (Pyrula), the helmet shells (Cassis), the tritons, and allied genera. 

PROBOSCIDIFORM:  Having the form or uses of a proboscis; as, a proboscidiform mouth. 

PROBOSCIS:  A hollow organ or tube attached to the head, or connected with the mouth, of various animals, and generally used in taking food or drink; a snout; a trunk.  Note: The proboscis of an elephant is a flexible muscular elongation of the nose. The proboscis of insects is usually a chitinous tube formed by the modified maxillæ, or by the labium. See Illusts. of Hemiptera and Lepidoptera.  2. (Zoöl.)  By extension, applied to various tubelike mouth organs of the lower animals that can be everted or protruded.  Note: The proboscis of annelids and of mollusks is usually a portion of the pharynx that can be everted or protruded. That of nemerteans is a special long internal organ, not connected with the mouth, and not used in feeding, but capable of being protruded from a pore in the head. See Illust. in Appendix.  3. The nose. [Jocose] Proboscis monkey. (Zoöl.) See Kahau. 

PROCACIOUS:  Pert; petulant; forward; saucy. [R.] Barrow. 

PROCACITY:  Forwardness; pertness; petulance. [R.] Burton. 

PROCAMBIUM:  The young tissue of a fibrovascular bundle before its component cells have begun to be differentiated. Sachs. 

PROCATARCTIC:  Beginning; predisposing; exciting; initial. [Obs.]  Note: The words procatarctic causes have been used with different significations. Thus they have been employed synonymously with prime causes, exciting causes, and predisposing or remote causes. The physician inquires into the procatarctic causes. Harvey. 

PROCATARXIS:  The kindling of a disease into action; also, the procatarctic cause. Quincy. 

PROCEED:  To begin and carry on a legal process.  Syn.  -- To advance; go on; continue; progress; issue; arise; emanate. 

PROCEED:  See Proceeds. [Obs.] Howell. 

PROCEEDER:  One who proceeds. 

PROCEEDING:  The course of procedure in the prosecution of an action at law. Blackstone. Proceedings of a society, the published record of its action, or of things done at its meetings.  Syn.  -- Procedure; measure; step, See Transaction. 

PROCEEDS:  That which comes forth or results; effect; yield; issue; product; sum accruing from a sale, etc. 

PROCELEUSMATIC:  Consisting of four short syllables; composed of feet of four short syllables each. 

PROCELEUSMATIC:  A foot consisting of four short syllables. 

PROCELLARIAN:  One of a family of oceanic birds (Procellaridæ) including the petrels, fulmars, and shearwaters. They are often seen in great abundance in stormy weather. 

PROCELLOUS:  Stormy. [Obs.] Bailey. 

PROCEPHALIC:  Pertaining to, or forming, the front of the head. Procephalic lobe (Zoöl.), that part of the head of an invertebrate animal which is in front of the mouth. 

PROCEPTION:  Preoccupation. [Obs.] Eikon Basilik 

PROCERE:  Of high stature; tall. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

PROCEREBRUM:  The prosencephalon. 

PROCERES:  An order of large birds; the Ratitæ; -- called also Proceri. 

PROCERITE:  The segment next to the flagellum of the antennæ of Crustacea. 

PROCERITY:  Height of stature; tallness. [R.] Johnson. 

PROCESS:  Any marked prominence or projecting part, especially of a bone; anapophysis.  5. (Law)  The whole course of proceedings in a cause real or personal, civil or criminal, from the beginning to the end of the suit; strictly, the means used for bringing the defendant into court to answer to the action; -- a generic term for writs of the class called judicial. Deacon's process Etym: [from H. Deacon, who introduced it] (Chem.), a method of obtaining chlorine gas by passing hydrochloric acid gas over heated slag which has been previously saturated with a solution of some metallic salt, as sulphate of copper.  -- Final process (Practice), a writ of execution in an action at law. Burrill.  -- In process, in the condition of advance, accomplishment, transaction, or the like; begun, and not completed.  -- Jury process (Law), the process by which a jury is summoned in a cause, and by which their attendance is enforced. Burrill.  -- Leblanc's process (Chem.), the process of manufacturing soda by treating salt with sulphuric acid, reducing the sodium sulphate so formed to sodium sulphide by roasting with charcoal, and converting the sodium sulphide to sodium carbonate by roasting with lime.  -- Mesne process. See under Mesne.  -- Process milling, the process of high milling for grinding flour. See under Milling.  -- Reversible process (Thermodynamics), any process consisting of a cycle of operations such that the different operations of the cycle can be performed in reverse order with a reversal of their effects. 

PROCESSION:  An orderly and ceremonial progress of persons, either from the sacristy to the choir, or from the choir around the church, within or without. Shipley.  4. pl. (Eccl.)  An old term for litanies which were said in procession and not kneeling. Shipley. Procession of the Holy Ghost, a theological term applied to the relation of the Holy Spirit to the Father and the Son, the Eastern Church affirming that the Spirit proceeds from the Father only, and the Western Church that the Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son. Shipley.  -- Procession week, a name for Rogation week, when processions were made; Cross-week. Shipley. 

PROCESSION:  To ascertain, mark, and establish the boundary lines of, as lands. [Local, U. S. (North Carolina and Tennessee).] "To procession the lands of such persons as desire it." Burrill. 

PROCESSION:  To march in procession. [R.] 

PROCESSION:  To honor with a procession. [R.] 

PROCESSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a procession; consisting in a procession. The processional services became more frequent. Milman. 

PROCESSIONAL:  A service book relating to ecclesiastical processions. J. Gregory.  2. A hymn, or other selection, sung during a church procession; as, the processional was the 202d hymn. 

PROCESSIONALIST:  One who goes or marches in a procession. [R.] 

PROCESSIONARY:  Pertaining to a procession; consisting in processions; as, processionary service. Processionary moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus Cnethocampa, especially C. processionea of Europe, whose larvæ make large webs on oak trees, and go out to feed in regular order. They are covered with stinging hairs. 

PROCESSIONING:  A proceeding prescribed by statute for ascertaining and fixing the boundaries of land. See 2d Procession. [ Local, U. S.] Bouvier. 

PROCESSIVE:  Proceeding; advancing. Because it is language, -- ergo, processive. Coleridge.  PROCESS PLATE Proc"ess plate.  (a) A plate prepared by a mechanical process, esp. a photomechanical process.  (b) A very slow photographic plate, giving good contrasts between high lights and shadows, used esp. for making lantern slides.  PROCES VERBAL Pro`cès" ver`bal". Etym: [ F.] (French Law)  An authentic minute of an official act, or statement of facts. 

PROCHEIN:  Next; nearest. Prochein ami or amy ( (Law), the next friend. See under Next. 

PROCHORDAL:  Situated in front of the notochord; -- applied especially to parts of the cartilaginous rudiments in the base of the skull. 

PROCHRONISM:  The dating of an event before the time it happened; an antedating; -- opposed to Ant: metachronism. 

PROCHRONIZE:  To antedate. Fitzed. Hall.  PROCIDENCE; PROCIDENTIA Proc"i*dence, Proc*i*den"ti*a, n. Etym: [L. procidentia, fr. procidens, p. pr. of procidere to fall down forward.] (Med.)  A falling down; a prolapsus. [R.] Parr. 

PROCIDUOUS:  Falling from its proper place. 

PROCINCT:  A state of complete readiness for action. [Obs.] "War in procinct." Milton. 

PROCLAIMER:  One who proclaims. 

PROCLITIC:  Leaning forward; -- said of certain monosyllabic words which are so closely attached to the following word as not to have a separate accent. 

PROCLIVE:  Having a tendency by nature; prone; proclivous. [R.] Mrs. Browning. 

PROCLIVOUS:  Having the incisor teeth directed forward. 

PROCOELE:  A lateral cavity of the prosencephalon; a lateral ventricle of the brain. B. G. Wilder. 

PROCOELIA:  Same as Procoele. 

PROCOELIA:  A division of Crocodilia, including the true crocodiles and alligators, in which the dorsal vertebræ are concave in front. 

PROCOELIAN:  Concave in front; as, procoelian vertebræ, which have the anterior end of the centra concave and the posterior convex. 

PROCOELIAN:  A reptile having procoelian vertebræ; one of the Procoelia. 

PROCOELOUS:  Same as Procoelian. 

PROCONSUL:  An officer who discharged the duties of a consul without being himself consul; a governor of, or a military commander in, a province. He was usually one who had previously been consul.  PROCONSULAR; PROCONSULARY Pro*con"su*lar, Pro*con"su*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. proconsularis: cf. F. proconsulaire.]  1. Of or pertaining of a proconsul; as, proconsular powers.  2. Under the government of a proconsul; as, a proconsular province. 

PROCONSULATE:  The office jurisdiction of a proconsul, or the term of his office. 

PROCONSULSHIP:  Proconsulate. 

PROCRASTINATE:  To put off till to-morrow, or from day to day; to defer; to postpone; to delay; as, to procrastinate repentance. Dr. H. More. Hopeless and helpless Ægeon wend, But to procrastinate his lifeless end. Shak.  Syn.  -- To postpone; adjourn; defer; delay; retard; protract; prolong. 

PROCRASTINATE:  To delay; to be dilatory. I procrastinate more than I did twenty years ago. Swift. 

PROCRASTINATION:  The act or habit of procrastinating, or putting off to a future time; delay; dilatoriness. Procrastination is the thief of time. Young. 

PROCRASTINATOR:  One who procrastinates, or defers the performance of anything. 

PROCRASTINATORY:  Of or pertaining to procrastination; dilatory. 

PROCRASTINE:  To procrastinate. [Obs.] 

PROCREANT:  Generating; producing; productive; fruitful; assisting in procreation. [R.] "His pendent bed and procreant cradle." Shak. 

PROCREANT:  One who, or that which, procreates. 

PROCREATE:  To generate and produce; to beget; to engender. 

PROCREATION:  The act of begetting; generation and production of young. South. 

PROCREATIVE:  Having the power to beget; generative. Sir M. Hale. 

PROCREATIVENESS:  The power of generating. 

PROCREATOR:  One who begets; a father or sire; a generator. 

PROCRIS:  Any species of small moths of the genus Procris. The larvæ of some species injure the grapevine by feeding in groups upon the leaves. 

PROCRUSTEAN:  Of or pertaining to Procrustes, or the mode of torture practiced by him; producing conformity by violent means; as, the Procrustean treatment; a Procrustean limit. See Procrustes. 

PROCRUSTEANIZE:  To stretch or contract according to some rule or standard. 

PROCRUSTES:  A celebrated legendary highwayman of Attica, who tied his victims upon an iron bed, and, as the case required, either stretched or cut of their legs to adapt them to its length; -- whence the metaphorical phrase, the bed of Procrustes. 

PROCRUSTESIAN:  See Procrustean. 

PROCTITIS:  Inflammation of the rectum. 

PROCTOCELE:  Inversion and prolapse of the mucous coat of the rectum, from relaxation of the sphincter, with more or less swelling; prolapsus ani. Dunglison. 

PROCTODAEUM:  See Mesenteron. 

PROCTOR:  One who is employed to manage to affairs of another. Specifically: (a) A person appointed to collect alms for those who could not go out to beg for themselves, as lepers, the bedridden, etc.; hence a beggar. [Obs.] Nares. (b) (Eng. Law) An officer employed in admiralty and ecclesiastical causes. He answers to an attorney at common law, or to a solicitor in equity. Wharton. (c) (Ch. of Eng.) A representative of the clergy in convocation. (d) An officer in a university or college whose duty it is to enforce obedience to the laws of the institution. 

PROCTOR:  To act as a proctor toward; to manage as an attorney or agent. Bp. Warburton. 

PROCTORAGE:  Management by a proctor, or as by a proctor; hence, control; superintendence; -- in contempt. "The fogging proctorage of money." Milton. 

PROCTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a proctor, esp. an academic proctor; magisterial. 

PROCTORICAL:  Proctorial. [R.] 

PROCTORSHIP:  The office or dignity of a proctor; also, the term of his office. Clarendon. 

PROCTOTOMY:  An incision into the rectum, as for the division of a stricture. 

PROCUMBENT:  Lying on the ground, but without putting forth roots; trailing; prostrate; as, a procumbent stem. 

PROCURABLE:  Capable of being procured; obtainable. Boyle. 

PROCURATION:  A sum of money paid formerly to the bishop or archdeacon, now to the ecclesiastical commissioners, by an incumbent, as a commutation for entertainment at the time of visitation; -- called also proxy. Procuration money (Law), money paid for procuring a loan. Blackstone. 

PROCURATOR:  One who manages another's affairs, either generally or in a special matter; an agent; a proctor. Chaucer. Shak.  2. (Rom. Antiq.)  A governor of a province under the emperors; also, one who had charge of the imperial revenues in a province; as, the procurator of Judea. Procurator fiscal (Scots Law), public prosecutor, or district attorney. 

PROCURATORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a procurator, or proctor; made by a proctor. Ayliffe. 

PROCURATORSHIP:  The office or term of a procurator. Bp. Pearson. 

PROCURATORY:  Tending to, or authorizing, procuration. 

PROCURESS:  A female procurer, or pander. 

PROCYON:  a star of the first magnitude in the constellation Canis Minor, or the Little Dog.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of mammals including the raccoon. 

PROD:  To thrust some pointed instrument into; to prick with something sharp; as, to prod a soldier with a bayonet; to prod oxen; hence, to goad, to incite, to worry; as, to prod a student. H. Taylor. 

PRODD:  A crossbow. See Prod, 3. 

PRODIGAL:  Given to extravagant expenditure; expending money or other things without necessity; recklessly or viciously profuse; lavish; wasteful; not frugal or economical; as, a prodigal man; the prodigal son; prodigal giving; prodigal expenses. In fighting fields [patriots] were prodigal of blood. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Profuse; lavish; extravagant; squandering; wasteful. See Profuse. 

PRODIGAL:  One who expends money extravagantly, viciously, or without necessity; one that is profuse or lavish in any expenditure; a waster; a spendthrift. "Noble prodigals of life." Trench. 

PRODIGALITY:  Extravagance in expenditure, particularly of money; excessive liberality; profusion; waste; -- opposed to frugality, economy, and parsimony."The prodigality of his wit." Dryden. 

PRODIGALIZE:  To act as a prodigal; to spend liberally. Sherwood. 

PRODIGALIZE:  To expend lavishly. Ld. Lytton. 

PRODIGALLY:  In a prodigal manner; with profusion of expense; extravagantly; wasteful; profusely; lavishly; as, an estate prodigally dissipated. Nature not bounteous now, but lavish grows; Our paths with flowers she prodigally strows. Dryden. 

PRODIGATE:  To squander. Thackeray. 

PRODIGENCE:  Waste; profusion; prodigality. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

PRODIGIOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being prodigious; the state of having qualities that excite wonder or astonishment; enormousness; vastness. 

PRODITION:  Disclosure; treachery; treason. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

PRODITOR:  A traitor. [Obs.] 

PRODITORY:  Treacherous. [Obs.] 

PRODROMAL:  Of or pertaining to prodromes; as, the prodromal stage of a disease. 

PRODROME:  A forerunner; a precursor. 

PRODROMOUS:  Precursory. [R.] 

PRODUCE:  To extend; -- applied to a line, surface, or solid; as, to produce a side of a triangle. 

PRODUCE:  To yield or furnish appropriate offspring, crops, effects, consequences, or results. 

PRODUCE:  That which is produced, brought forth, or yielded; product; yield; proceeds; result of labor, especially of agricultural labors; hence, specifically, agricultural products. 

PRODUCEMENT:  Production. [Obs.] 

PRODUCENT:  One who produces, or offers to notice. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

PRODUCER:  A furnace for producing combustible gas which is used for fuel.  PRODUCE RACE Prod"uce race. (Horse Racing)  A race to be run by the produce of horses named or described at the time of entry.  PRODUCER'S GOODS Pro*duc"er's goods. (Polit. Econ.)  Goods that satisfy wants only indirectly as factors in the production of other goods, such as tools and raw material; -- called also instrumental goods, auxiliary goods, intermediate goods, or goods of the second and higher orders, and disting. from consumers' goods.  PRODUCER'S SURPLUS; PRODUCER'S RENT Producer's surplus. (Polit. Econ.)  Any profit above the normal rate of interest and wages accruing to a producer on account of some monopoly (temporary or permanent) of the means or materials of production; -- called also Producer's rent. 

PRODUCIBILITY:  The quality or state of being producible. Barrow. 

PRODUCIBLE:  Capable of being produced, brought forward, brought forth, generated, made, or extended.  -- Pro*du"ci*ble*ness, n. 

PRODUCT:  The number or sum obtained by adding one number or quantity to itself as many times as there are units in another number; the number resulting from the multiplication of two or more numbers; as, the product of the multiplication of 7 by 5 is 35. In general, the result of any kind of multiplication. See the Note under Multiplication.  Syn.  -- Produce; production; fruit; result; effect; consequence; outcome; work; performance. 

PRODUCTIBILITY:  The state of being productible; producibility. Ruskin. 

PRODUCTIBLE:  Capable of being produced; producible. 

PRODUCTILE:  Capable of being extended or prolonged; extensible; ductile. 

PRODUCTIVITY:  The quality or state of being productive; productiveness. Emerson. Not indeed as the product, but as the producing power, the productivity. Coleridge. 

PRODUCTRESS:  A female producer. 

PRODUCTUS:  An extinct genus of brachiopods, very characteristic of the Carboniferous rocks. 

PROEGUMINAL:  Serving to predispose; predisposing; as, a proeguminal cause of disease. 

PROEM:  Preface; introduction; preliminary observations; prelude. Thus much may serve by way of proem. Swift. 

PROEM:  To preface. [Obs.] South. 

PROEMIAL:  Introductory; prefatory; preliminary. [R.] Hammond. 

PROEMPTOSIS:  The addition of a day to the lunar calendar. [R.] See Metemptosis. 

PROFACE:  Much good may it do you! -- a familiar salutation or welcome. [Obs.] Master page, good master page, sit. Proface! Shak. 

PROFANATE:  To profane. [Obs.] 

PROFANELY:  In a profane manner. The character of God profanely impeached. Dr. T. Dwight. 

PROFANENESS:  The quality or state of being profane; especially, the use of profane language. 

PROFANER:  One who treats sacred things with irreverence, or defiles what is holy; one who uses profane language. Hooker. 

PROFECTION:  A setting out; a going forward; advance; progression. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PROFECTITIOUS:  Proceeding from, as from a parent; derived, as from an ancestor. [R.] The threefold distinction of profectitious, adventitious, and professional was ascertained. Gibbon. 

PROFERT:  The exhibition or production of a record or paper in open court, or an allegation that it is in court. 

PROFESSED:  Openly declared, avowed, acknowledged, or claimed; as, a professed foe; a professed tyrant; a professed Christian. The professed (R. C. Ch.) , a certain class among the Jesuits bound by a special vow. See the note under Jesuit. 

PROFESSEDLY:  By profession. 

PROFESSION:  The act of entering, or becoming a member of, a religious order. 

PROFESSIONAL:  A person who prosecutes anything professionally, or for a livelihood, and not in the character of an amateur; a professional worker. 

PROFESSIONALISM:  The following of a profession, sport, etc., as an occupation; - - opposed to Ant: amateurism. 

PROFESSIONALIST:  professional person. [R.] 

PROFESSIONALLY:  In a professional manner or capacity; by profession or calling; in the exercise of one's profession; one employed professionally. 

PROFESSORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a professor; as, the professional chair; professional interest. 

PROFESSORIALISM:  The character, manners, or habits of a professor. [R.] 

PROFESSORIAT:  See Professoriate. 

PROFESSORSHIP:  The office or position of a professor, or public teacher. Walton. 

PROFESSORY:  Of or pertaining to a professor; professorial. [R.] Bacon. 

PROFFERER:  One who proffers something.  PROFICIENCE; PROFICIENCY Pro*fi"cience, Pro*fi"cien*cy, n.  The quality of state of being proficient; advance in the acquisition of any art, science, or knowledge; progression in knowledge; improvement; adeptness; as, to acquire proficiency in music. 

PROFICIENT:  One who has made considerable advances in any business, art, science, or branch of learning; an expert; an adept; as, proficient in a trade; a proficient in mathematics, music, etc. 

PROFICIENT:  Well advanced in any branch of knowledge or skill; possessed of considerable acquirements; well-skilled; versed; adept, 

PROFICIENTLY:  In a proficient manner. 

PROFICUOUS:  Profitable; advantageous; useful. [Obs.] Harvey. 

PROFILE:  A human head represented sidewise, or in a side view; the side face or half face.  3. (a) (Arch.) A section of any member, made at right angles with its main lines, showing the exact shape of moldings and the like. (b) (Civil Engin.) A drawing exhibiting a vertical section of the ground along a surveyed line, or graded work, as of a railway, showing elevations, depressions, grades, etc. Profile paper (Civil Engin.), paper ruled with vertical and horizontal lines forming small oblong rectangles, adapted for drawing profiles. 

PROFILE:  To shape the outline of an object by passing a cutter around it. Profiling machine, a jigging machine. 

PROFILING:  In the construction of fieldworks, the erection at proper intervals of wooden profiles, to show to the workmen the sectional form of the parapets at those points. 

PROFILIST:  One who takes profiles. 

PROFIT:  To be of service to; to be good to; to help on; to benefit; to advantage; to avail; to aid; as, truth profits all men. The word preached did not profit them. Heb. iv. 2. It is a great means of profiting yourself, to copy diligently excellent pieces and beautiful designs. Dryden. 

PROFITABLE:  Yielding or bringing profit or gain; gainful; lucrative; useful; helpful; advantageous; beneficial; as, a profitable trade; profitable business; a profitable study or profession. What was so profitable to the empire became fatal to the emperor. Arbuthnot. -- Prof"it*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Prof"it*a*bly, adv. 

PROFITING:  Gain; advantage; profit. That thy profiting may appear to all. 1 Tim. iv. 15. 

PROFITLESS:  Without profit; unprofitable. Shak. 

PROFLIGACY:  The quality of state of being profligate; a profligate or very vicious course of life; a state of being abandoned in moral principle and in vice; dissoluteness. 

PROFLIGATE:  An abandoned person; one openly and shamelessly vicious; a dissolute person. "Such a profligate as Antony." Swift. 

PROFLIGATE:  To drive away; to overcome.  Note: [A Latinism] [Obs.] Harvey. 

PROFLIGATELY:  In a profligate manner. 

PROFLIGATENESS:  The quality of being profligate; an abandoned course of life; profligacy. 

PROFLIGATION:  Defeat; rout; overthrow. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PROFLUENCE:  Quality of being profluent; course. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. 

PROFLUENT:  Flowing forward, [R.] "In the profluent stream." Milton. 

PROFOUND:  To cause to sink deeply; to cause to dive or penetrate far down. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

PROFOUND:  To dive deeply; to penetrate. [Obs.] 

PROFOUNDLY:  In a profound manner. Why sigh you so profoundly Shak. 

PROFOUNDNESS:  The quality or state of being profound; profundity; depth. Hooker. 

PROFULGENT:  Shining forth; brilliant; effulgent. [Obs.] "Profulgent in preciousness." Chaucer. 

PROFUNDITY:  The quality or state of being profound; depth of place, knowledge, feeling, etc. "The vast profundity obscure." Milton. 

PROFUSE:  To pour out; to give or spend liberally; to lavish; to squander. [Obs.] Chapman. 

PROFUSELY:  In a profuse manner. 

PROFUSENESS:  Extravagance; profusion. Hospitality sometimes degenerates into profuseness. Atterbury. 

PROFUSIVE:  Profuse; lavish; prodigal.[Obs.] 

PROGENERATE:  To beget; to generate; to produce; to procreate; as, to progenerate a race. [R.] Landor. 

PROGENERATION:  The act of begetting; propagation. [R.] 

PROGENITOR:  An ancestor in the direct line; a forefather. And reverence thee their great progenitor. Milton. 

PROGENITORSHIP:  The state of being a progenitor. 

PROGENITRESS:  A female progenitor. 

PROGENITURE:  A begetting, or birth. [R.] 

PROGENY:  Descendants of the human kind, or offspring of other animals; children; offspring; race, lineage. " Issued from the progeny of kings." Shak. 

PROGLOTTID:  Proglottis. 

PROGLOTTIS:  One of the free, or nearly free, segments of a tapeworm. It contains both male and female reproductive organs, and is capable of a brief independent existence. 

PROGNATHI:  A comprehensive group of mankind, including those that have prognathous jaws. 

PROGNATHIC:  Prognathous. 

PROGNATHISM:  Projection of the jaws.  -- Prog"na*thy, n. 

PROGNATHOUS:  Having the jaws projecting beyond the upper part of the face; - - opposed to orthognathous. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic. Their countenances had the true prognathous character. Kane. 

PROGNOSIS:  The act or art of foretelling the course and termination of a disease; also, the outlook afforded by this act of judgment; as, the prognosis of hydrophobia is bad. 

PROGNOSTIC:  Indicating something future by signs or symptoms; foreshowing; aiding in prognosis; as, the prognostic symptoms of a disease; prognostic signs. 

PROGNOSTIC:  A sign or symptom indicating the course and termination of a disease. Parr.  Syn.  -- Sign; omen; presage; token; indication. 

PROGNOSTIC:  To prognosticate. [Obs.] 

PROGNOSTICABLE:  Capable of being prognosticated or foretold. Sir T. Browne. 

PROGNOSTICATE:  To indicate as future; to foretell from signs or symptoms; to prophesy; to foreshow; to predict; as, to prognosticate evil. Burke. I neither will nor can prognosticate To the young gaping heir his father's fate. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To foreshow; foretoken; betoken; forebode; presage; predict; prophesy. 

PROGNOSTICATOR:  One who prognosticates; a foreknower or foreteller of a future course or event by present signs. Isa. xlvii. 13. 

PROGRAM:  Same as Programme. 

PROGRAMMA:  Any law, which, after it had passed the Athenian senate, was fixed on a tablet for public inspection previously to its being proposed to the general assembly of the people.  2. An edict published for public information; an official bulletin; a public proclamation.  3. See Programme.  4. A preface. [Obs.] T. Warton. 

PROGRAMME:  That which is written or printed as a public notice or advertisement; a scheme; a prospectus; especially, a brief outline or explanation of the order to be pursued, or the subjects embraced, in any public exercise, performance, or entertainment; a preliminary sketch. Programme music (Mus.), descriptive instrumental music which requires an argument or programme to explain the meaning of its several movements. 

PROGRESS:  To make progress in; to pass through. [Obs.] Milton. 

PROGRESSION:  Regular or proportional advance in increase or decrease of numbers; continued proportion, arithmetical, geometrical, or harmonic.  4. (Mus.)  A regular succession of tones or chords; the movement of the parts in harmony; the order of the modulations in a piece from key to key. Arithmetical progression, a progression in which the terms increase or decrease by equal differences, as the numbers 2, 4, 6, 8, 1010, 8, 6, 4, 2 -- Geometrical progression, a progression in which the terms increase or decrease by equal ratios, as the numbers 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 6464, 32, 16, 8, 4, 2 -- Harmonic progression, a progression in which the terms are the reciprocals of quantities in arithmetical progression, as 

PROGRESSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to progression; tending to, or capable of, progress. 

PROGRESSIST:  One who makes, or holds to, progress; a progressionist. 

PROGRESSIVE:  The political party formed, chiefly out of the Republican party, by the adherents of Theodore Roosevelt in the presidential campaign of 1912. The name Progressive party was chosen at the meeting held on Aug. 7, 1912, when the candidates were nominated and the platform adopted.  Among the chief articles in the platform are those demanding direct primaries, preferential primaries for presidential nominations, direct election of United States senators, women's suffrage, and recall of judicial decisions in certain cases. 

PROGUE:  To prog. [Obs.] P. Fletcher. 

PROGUE:  A sharp point; a goad. [ Scot. & Local, U. S.] -- v. t.  To prick; to goad. [ Scot. & Local, U. S.]. 

PROHEME:  Proem. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PROHIBITER:  One who prohibits or forbids; a forbidder; an interdicter. 

PROHIBITIVE:  That prohibits; prohibitory; as, a tax whose effect is prohibitive. 

PROHIBITORY:  Tending to prohibit, forbid, or exclude; implying prohibition; forbidding; as, a prohibitory law; a prohibitory price. Prohibitory index. (R. C. Ch.) See under Index. 

PROIN:  To lop; to trim; to prune; to adorn. [Obs.] Chaucer. The sprigs that did about it grow He proined from the leafy arms. Chapman. 

PROIN:  To employed in pruning. [Obs.] 

PROJECT:  To draw or exhibit, as the form of anything; to delineate; as, to project a sphere, a map, an ellipse, and the like; -- sometimes with on, upon, into, etc.; as, to project a line or point upon a plane. See Projection, 4. 

PROJECTILE:  A part of mechanics which treats of the motion, range, time of flight, etc., of bodies thrown or driven through the air by an impelling force. 

PROJECTION:  The representation of something; delineation; plan; especially, the representation of any object on a perspective plane, or such a delineation as would result were the chief points of the object thrown forward upon the plane, each in the direction of a line drawn through it from a given point of sight, or central point; as, the projection of a sphere. The several kinds of projection differ according to the assumed point of sight and plane of projection in each.  5. (Geog.)  Any method of representing the surface of the earth upon a plane. Conical projection, a mode of representing the sphere, the spherical surface being projected upon the surface of a cone tangent to the sphere, the point of sight being at the center of the sphere.  -- Cylindric projection, a mode of representing the sphere, the spherical surface being projected upon the surface of a cylinder touching the sphere, the point of sight being at the center of the sphere.  -- Globular, Gnomonic, Orthographic, projection,etc. See under Globular, Gnomonic, etc.  -- Mercator's projection, a mode of representing the sphere in which the meridians are drawn parallel to each other, and the parallels of latitude are straight lines whose distance from each other increases with their distance from the equator, so that at all places the degrees of latitude and longitude have to each other the same ratio as on the sphere itself.  -- Oblique projection, a projection made by parallel lines drawn from every point of a figure and meeting the plane of projection obliquely.  -- Polar projection, a projection of the sphere in which the point of sight is at the center, and the plane of projection passes through one of the polar circles.  -- Powder of projection (Alchemy.), a certain powder cast into a crucible or other vessel containing prepared metal or other matter which is to be thereby transmuted into gold.  -- Projection of a point on a plane (Descriptive Geom.), the foot of a perpendicular to the plane drawn through the point.  -- Projection of a straight line of a plane, the straight line of the plane connecting the feet of the perpendiculars let fall from the extremities of the given line.  Syn.  -- See Protuberance. 

PROJECTMENT:  Design; contrivance; projection. [Obs.] Clarendon. 

PROJECTOR:  One who projects a scheme or design; hence, one who forms fanciful or chimerical schemes. L'Estrange. 

PROJECTURE:  A jutting out beyond a surface. 

PROJET:  A plan proposed; a draft of a proposed measure; a project. 

PROKE:  To poke; to thrust. [Obs.] Holland. 

PROLAPSE:  The falling down of a part through the orifice with which it is naturally connected, especially of the uterus or the rectum. Dunglison. 

PROLAPSE:  To fall down or out; to protrude. 

PROLAPSION:  Prolapse. [ Written also prolaption.] [Obs.] 

PROLAPSUS:  Prolapse. 

PROLATE:  Stretched out; extended; especially, elongated in the direction of a line joining the poles; as, a prolate spheroid; -- opposed to oblate. Prolate cycloid. See the Note under Cycloid.  -- Prolate ellipsoid or spheroid (Geom.), a figure generated by the revolution of an ellipse about its major axis. See Ellipsoid of revolution, under Ellipsoid. 

PROLATE:  To utter; to pronounce. [Obs.] "Foun-der-ed; prolate it right." B. Jonson. 

PROLATION:  A mediæval method of determining of the proportionate duration of semibreves and minims. Busby. 

PROLATUM:  A prolate spheroid. See Ellipsoid of revolution, under Ellipsoid. 

PROLEG:  One of the fleshy legs found on the abdominal segments of the larvæ of Lepidoptera, sawflies, and some other insects. Those of Lepidoptera have a circle of hooks. Called also proped, propleg, and falseleg. 

PROLEGATE:  The deputy or substitute for a legate. 

PROLEGOMENARY:  Of the nature of a prolegomenon; preliminary; introductory; prefatory. 

PROLEGOMENON:  A preliminary remark or observation; an introductory discourse prefixed to a book or treatise. D. Stokes (1659). Sir W. Scott. 

PROLEPSIS:  An error in chronology, consisting in an event being dated before the actual time.  3. (Gram.)  The application of an adjective to a noun in anticipation, or to denote the result, of the action of the verb; as, to strike one dumb.  PROLEPTIC; PROLEPTICAL Pro*lep"tic, Pro*lep"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. proleptique.]  1. Of or pertaining to prolepsis; anticipative. "A far-seeing or proleptic wisdom." De Quincey.  2. Previous; antecedent. Glanvill.  3. (Med.)  Anticipating the usual time; -- applied to a periodical disease whose paroxysms return at an earlier hour at every repetition. 

PROLEPTICALLY:  In a proleptical manner. 

PROLEPTICS:  The art and science of predicting in medicine. Laycock. 

PROLETAIRE:  One of the common people; a low person; also, the common people as a class or estate in a country. 

PROLETANEOUS:  Having a numerous offspring. [R.] 

PROLETARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the proletaries; belonging to the commonalty; hence, mean; vile; vulgar. "Every citizen, if he were not a proletarian animal kept at the public cost." De Quincey.  -- n.  A proletary. 

PROLETARIAT:  The indigent class in the State; the body of proletarians. 

PROLETARIATE:  The lower classes; beggars. "The Italian proletariate." J. A. Symonds. 

PROLETARY:  A citizen of the lowest class, who served the state, not with property, but only by having children; hence, a common person. 

PROLICIDE:  The crime of destroying one's offspring, either in the womb or after birth. Bouvier. 

PROLIFERATE:  To produce or form cells; especially, to produce cells rapidly.  2. (Zoöl.)  To produce zooids by budding. 

PROLIFERATION:  The continuous development of cells in tissue formation; cell formation. Virchow.  2. (Zoöl.)  The production of numerous zooids by budding, especially when buds arise from other buds in succession. 

PROLIFEROUS:  Bearing offspring; -- applied to a flower from within which another is produced, or to a branch or frond from which another rises, or to a plant which is reproduced by buds or gemmæ.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) Producing young by budding. (b) Producing sexual zooids by budding; -- said of the blastostyle of a hydroid. (c) Producing a cluster of branchlets from a larger branch; -- said of corals. Proliferous cyst (Med.), a cyst that produces highly- organized or even vascular structures. Paget.  -- Pro*lif"er*ous*ly, adv. 

PROLIFIC:  Proliferous. 

PROLIFICACY:  Prolificness. [R.] 

PROLIFICAL:  Producing young or fruit abundantly; fruitful; prolific.  -- Pro*lif"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PROLIFICATE:  To make prolific; to fertilize; to impregnate. Sir T. Browne. 

PROLIFICATION:  Reproduction by the growth of a plant, or part of a plant, directly from an older one, or by gemmæ. 

PROLIFICNESS:  The quality or state of being prolific; fruitfulness; prolificacy. 

PROLIXIOUS:  Dilatory; tedious; superfluous. [Obs.] "Lay by all nicety, and prolixious blushes." Shak. 

PROLIXITY:  The quality or state of being prolix; great length; minute detail; as, prolixity in discourses and writings. "For fulsomeness of his prolixitee." Chaucer. Idly running on with vain prolixity. Drayton. 

PROLIXLY:  In a prolix manner. Dryden. 

PROLIXNESS:  Prolixity. Adam Smith. 

PROLL:  To search or prowl after; to rob; to plunder. [Obs.] Barrow. 

PROLL:  To prowl about; to rob. [Obs.] South. Though ye prolle aye, ye shall it never find. Chaucer. 

PROLLER:  Prowler; thief. [Obs.] Chapman. 

PROLOCUTORSHIP:  The office of a prolocutor. 

PROLOG:  Prologue. 

PROLOGIZE:  To deliver a Prologue. [R.] Whewell. 

PROLOGIZER:  One who prologizes. [R.] 

PROLOGUE:  To introduce with a formal preface, or prologue. [R.] Shak. 

PROLONGABLE:  Capable of being prolonged; as, life is prolongable by care. Each syllable being a prolongable quantity. Rush. 

PROLONGATE:  To prolong; to extend in space or in time. [R.] 

PROLONGE:  A rope with a hook and a toggle, sometimes used to drag a gun carriage or to lash it to the limber, and for various other purposes. 

PROLONGER:  One who, or that which, causes an extension in time or space. 

PROLONGMENT:  Prolongation. 

PROLUSION:  A trial before the principal performance; a prelude; hence, an introductory essay or exercise. "Domestic prolusions." Thackeray. Her presence was in some measure a restraint on the worthy divine, whose prolusion lasted. Sir W. Scott. 

PROMANATION:  The act of flowing forth; emanation; efflux. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PROMENADE:  To walk for pleasure, display, or exercise. 

PROMENADER:  One who promenades. 

PROMEROPS:  Any one of several species of very brilliant birds belonging to Promerops, Epimarchus, and allied genera, closely related to the paradise birds, and mostly native of New Guinea. They have a long curved beak and a long graduated tail. 

PROMETHEA:  A large American bombycid moth (Callosamia promethea). Its larva feeds on the sassafras, wild cherry, and other trees, and suspends its cocoon from a branch by a silken band. 

PROMETHEUS:  The son of Iapetus (one of the Titans) and Clymene, fabled by the poets to have surpassed all mankind in knowledge, and to have formed men of clay to whom he gave life by means of fire stolen from heaven. Jupiter, being angry at this, sent Mercury to bind Prometheus to Mount Caucasus, where a vulture preyed upon his liver.  PROMINENCE; PROMINENCY Prom"i*nence, Prom"i*nen*cy, n. Etym: [L. prominentia: cf. F. prominence. See Prominent. ]  1. The quality or state of being prominent; a standing out from something; conspicuousness.  2. That which is prominent; a protuberance. Solar prominences. (Astron.) See Solar Protuberances, under Protuberance. 

PROMINENTLY:  In a prominent manner. 

PROMISCUITY:  Promiscuousness; confusion. H. Spencer. 

PROMISCUOUSLY:  In a promiscuous manner. 

PROMISCUOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being promiscuous. 

PROMISE:  An engagement by one person to another, either in words or in writing, but properly not under seal, for the performance or nonperformance of some particular thing. The word promise is used to denote the mere engagement of a person, without regard to the consideration for it, or the corresponding duty of the party to whom it is made. Chitty. Parsons. Burrill.  3. That which causes hope, expectation, or assurance; especially, that which affords expectation of future distinction; as, a youth of great promise. Shak. My native country was full of youthful promise. W. Irving.  4. Bestowal, fulfillment, or grant of what is promised. He . . . commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father. Acts i. 4. 

PROMISEE:  The person to whom a promise is made. 

PROMISER:  One who promises. 

PROMISING:  Making a promise or promises; affording hope or assurance; as, promising person; a promising day.  -- Prom"is*ing*ly, adv. 

PROMISOR:  One who engages or undertakes; a promiser. Burrill. 

PROMISSIVE:  Making a promise; implying a promise; promising. [R.] 

PROMISSORILY:  In a promissory manner. Sir T. Browne. 

PROMISSORY:  Containing a promise or binding declaration of something to be done or forborne. Promissory note (Law), a written promise to pay to some person named, and at a time specified therein, or on demand, or at sight, a certain sum of money, absolutely and at all events; -- frequently called a note of hand. Kent. Byles. Story. 

PROMONT:  Promontory. [R.] Drayton. 

PROMONTORY:  A high point of land or rock projecting into the sea beyond the line of coast; a headland; a high cape. Like one that stands upon a promontory. Shak.  2. (Anat.)  A projecting part. Especially: (a) The projecting angle of the ventral side of the sacrum where it joins the last lumbar vertebra. (b) A prominence on the inner wall of the tympanum of the ear. 

PROMORPHOLOGICAL:  Relating to promorphology; as, a promorphological conception. 

PROMORPHOLOGIST:  One versed in the science of promorphology. 

PROMORPHOLOGY:  Crystallography of organic forms; -- a division of morphology created by Haeckel. It is essentially stereometric, and relates to a mathematical conception of organic forms. See Tectology. 

PROMOTE:  To urge on or incite another, as to strife; also, to inform against a person. [Obs.] 

PROMOTION:  The act of promoting, advancing, or encouraging; the act of exalting in rank or honor; also, the condition of being advanced, encouraged, or exalted in honor; preferment. Milton. Promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south. Ps. lxxv. 6. 

PROMOTIVE:  Tending to advance, promote, or encourage. Hume. 

PROMOVE:  To move forward; to advance; to promote. [Obs.] Bp. Fell. 

PROMOVER:  A promoter. [Obs.] 

PROMPT:  A limit of time given for payment of an account for produce purchased, this limit varying with different goods. See Prompt-note. To cover any probable difference of price which might arise before the expiration of the prompt, which for this article [tea] is three months. J. S. Mill. 

PROMPT:  The book used by a prompter of a theater. 

PROMPTITUDE:  The quality of being prompt; quickness of decision and action when occasion demands; alacrity; as, promptitude in obedience. Men of action, of promptitude, and of courage. I. Taylor. 

PROMPTLY:  In a prompt manner. 

PROMPTNESS:  A memorandum of a sale, and time when payment is due, given to the purchaser at a sale of goods. 

PROMPTUARY:  Of or pertaining to preparation. [R.] Bacon. 

PROMPTUARY:  That from which supplies are drawn; a storehouse; a magazine; a repository. Woodward. 

PROMPTURE:  Suggestion; incitement; prompting. [R.] Shak. Coleridge. 

PROMULGATE:  To make known by open declaration, as laws, decrees, or tidings; to publish; as, to promulgate the secrets of a council.  Syn.  -- To publish; declare; proclaim. See Announce. 

PROMULGATION:  The act of promulgating; publication; open declaration; as, the promulgation of the gospel. South. 

PROMULGATOR:  One who promulgates or publishes. Dr. H. More. 

PROMULGE:  To promulgate; to publish or teach. Blackstone. Extraordinary doctrines these for the age in which they were promulged. Prescott. 

PROMULGER:  One who promulges or publishes what was before unknown. Atterbury. 

PROMUSCIS:  The proboscis of hemipterous insects. See Illust. under Hemiptera. 

PRONAOS:  The porch or vestibule of a temple. 

PRONATE:  Somewhat prone; inclined; as, pronate trees. Kane. 

PRONATOR:  A muscle which produces pronation. 

PRONELY:  In a prone manner or position. 

PRONEPHRIC:  Of or pertaining to the pronephros.  PRONEPHROS; PRONEPHRON Pro*neph"ros, Pro*neph"ron (, n. Etym: [ NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)  The head kidney. See under Head. 

PRONGED:  Having prongs or projections like the tines of a fork; as, a three-pronged fork.  PRONG-HOE Prong"-hoe`, n.  A hoe with prongs to break the earth. 

PRONGHORN:  An American antelope (Antilocapra Americana), native of the plain near the Rocky Mountains. The upper parts are mostly yellowish brown; the under parts, the sides of the head and throat, and the buttocks, are white. The horny sheath of the horns is shed annually. Called also cabrée, cabut, prongbuck, and pronghorned antelope. 

PRONITY:  Proneness; propensity. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

PRONOMINAL:  Belonging to, or partaking of the nature of, a pronoun. 

PRONOMINALIZE:  To give the effect of a pronoun to; as, to pronominalize the substantives person, people, etc. Early. 

PRONOMINALLY:  In a pronominal manner 

PRONONCE:  Strongly marked; decided, as in manners, etc. 

PRONOTARY:  See Prothonotary. 

PRONOTUM:  The dorsal plate of the prothorax in insects. See Illust. of Coleoptera. 

PRONOUN:  A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they. 

PRONOUNCE:  Pronouncement; declaration; pronunciation. [Obs.] Milton. 

PRONOUNCEABLE:  Capable of being pronounced. 

PRONOUNCED:  Strongly marked; unequivocal; decided.  Note: [A Gallicism] [His] views became every day more pronounced. Thackeray. 

PRONOUNCEMENT:  The act of pronouncing; a declaration; a formal announcement. 

PRONOUNCER:  One who pronounces, utters, or declares; also, a pronouncing book. 

PRONOUNCING:  Pertaining to, or indicating, pronunciation; as, a pronouncing dictionary. 

PRONUBIAL:  Presiding over marriage. [R.] 

PRONUCLEUS:  One of the two bodies or nuclei (called male and female pronuclei) which unite to form the first segmentation nucleus of an impregnated ovum.  Note: In the maturing of the ovum preparatory to impregnation, a part of the germinal vesicle (see Polar body, under Polar) becomes converted into a number of small vesicles, which aggregate themselves into a single clear nucleus. which travels towards the center of the egg and is called the female pronucleus. In impregnation, the spermatozoön which enters the egg soon loses its tail, while the head forms a nucleus, called the male pronucleus, which gradually travels towards the female pronucleus and eventually fuses with it, forming the first segmentation nucleus. 

PRONUNCIAL:  Of or pertaining to pronunciation; pronunciative. 

PRONUNCIAMENTO:  A proclamation or manifesto; a formal announcement or declaration. 

PRONUNCIAMIENTO:  See Pronunciamento. 

PRONUNCIATION:  The art of manner of uttering a discourse publicly with propriety and gracefulness; -- now called delivery. J. Q. Adams. 

PRONUNCIATOR:  One who pronounces; a pronouncer. 

PRONUNCIATORY:  Of or pertaining to pronunciation; that pronounces. 

PROOF:  A trial impression, as from type, taken for correction or examination; -- called also proof sheet.  6. (Math.)  A process for testing the accuracy of an operation performed. Cf. Prove, v. t., 5.  7. Armor of excellent or tried quality, and deemed impenetrable; properly, armor of proof. [Obs.] Shak. Artist's proof, a very early proof impression of an engraving, or the like; -- often distinguished by the artist's signature.  -- Proof reader, one who reads, and marks correction in, proofs. See def. 5, above.  Syn.  -- Testimony; evidence; reason; argument; trial; demonstration. See Testimony. 

PROOF:  To arm with proof armor; to arm securely; as, to proof-arm herself. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 

PROOFLESS:  Wanting sufficient evidence to induce belief; not proved. Boyle.  -- Proof"less*ly, adv.  PROOF-PROOF Proof"-proof`, a.  Proof against proofs; obstinate in the wrong. "That might have shown to any one who was not proof-proof." Whateley.  PROOSTRACUM; PROOESTRACUM Pro*ös"tra*cum, n.; pl. Proöstraca. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  The anterior prolongation of the guard of the phragmocone of belemnites and allied fossil cephalopods, whether horny or calcareous. See Illust. of Phragmocone.  PROOTIC; PROOETIC Pro*ö"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. pro- + Gr. (Anat.)  In front of the auditory capsule; -- applied especially to a bone, or center of ossification, in the periotic capsule.  -- n.  A proötic bone. 

PROP:  A shell, used as a die. See Props. 

PROP:  To support, or prevent from falling, by placing something under or against; as, to prop up a fence or an old building; (Fig.) to sustain; to maintain; as, to prop a declining state. Shak. Till the bright mountains prop the incumbent sky. Pope. For being not propp'd by ancestry. Shak. I prop myself upon those few supports that are left me. Pope. 

PROP:  That which sustains an incumbent weight; that on which anything rests or leans for support; a support; a stay; as, a prop for a building. "Two props of virtue." Shak.  PROPAEDEUTIC; PROPAEDEUTICAL Pro`pæ*deu"tic, Pro`pæ*deu"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of, pertaining to, or conveying, preliminary instruction; introductory to any art or science; instructing beforehand. 

PROPAEDEUTICS:  The preliminary learning connected with any art or science; preparatory instruction. 

PROPAGANDISM:  The art or practice of propagating tenets or principles; zeal in propagating one's opinions. 

PROPAGANDIST:  A person who devotes himself to the spread of any system of principles. "Political propagandists." Walsh. 

PROPAGATE:  To have young or issue; to be produced or multiplied by generation, or by new shoots or plants; as, rabbits propagate rapidly. No need that thou Should'st propagate, already infinite. Milton. 

PROPAGATIVE:  Producing by propagation, or by a process of growth. 

PROPAGATOR:  One who propagates; one who continues or multiplies. 

PROPAGULUM:  A runner terminated by a germinating bud. 

PROPANE:  A heavy gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H8, of the paraffin series, occurring naturally dissolved in crude petroleum, and also made artificially; -- called also propyl hydride. 

PROPARGYL:  Same as Propinyl. 

PROPAROXYTONE:  A word which has the acute accent on the antepenult. 

PROPED:  Same as Proleg. 

PROPEL:  To drive forward; to urge or press onward by force; to move, or cause to move; as, the wind or steam propels ships; balls are propelled by gunpowder. 

PROPEND:  To lean toward a thing; to be favorably inclined or disposed; to incline; to tend. [R.] Shak. We shall propend to it, as a stone falleth down. Barrow. 

PROPENDENT:  Inclining forward or toward. South. 

PROPENE:  Same as Propylene. 

PROPENSE:  Leaning toward, in a moral sense; inclined; disposed; prone; as, women propense to holiness. Hooker.  -- Pro*pense"ly, adv.  -- Pro*pense"ness, n. 

PROPENSION:  The quality or state of being propense; propensity. M. Arnold. Your full consent Gave wings to my propension. Shak. 

PROPENSITY:  The quality or state of being propense; natural inclination; disposition to do good or evil; bias; bent; tendency. "A propensity to utter blasphemy." Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Disposition; bias; inclination; proclivity; proneness; bent; tendency. 

PROPENYL:  A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical, C3H5, isomeric with allyl and glyceryl, and regarded as the essential residue of glycerin. Cf. Allyl, and Glyceryl. 

PROPEPSIN:  See Persinogen. 

PROPEPTONE:  A product of gastric digestion intermediate between albumin and peptone, identical with hemialbumose. 

PROPER:  Represented in its natural color; -- said of any object used as a charge. In proper, individually; privately. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  -- Proper flower or corolla (Bot.), one of the single florets, or corollets, in an aggregate or compound flower.  -- Proper fraction (Arith.) a fraction in which the numerator is less than the denominator.  -- Proper nectary (Bot.), a nectary separate from the petals and other parts of the flower.  -- Proper noun (Gram.), a name belonging to an individual, by which it is distinguished from others of the same class; -- opposed to Ant: common noun; as, John, Boston, America.  -- Proper perianth or involucre (Bot.), that which incloses only a single flower.  -- Proper receptacle (Bot.), a receptacle which supports only a single flower or fructification. 

PROPER:  Properly; hence, to a great degree; very; as, proper good. [Colloq & Vulgar] 

PROPERATE:  To hasten, or press forward. [Obs.] 

PROPERATION:  The act of hastening; haste. [Obs.] T. Adams. 

PROPERISPOME:  Properispomenon. 

PROPERISPOMENON:  A word which has the circumflex accent on the penult. 

PROPERTIED:  Possessing property; holding real estate, or other investments of money. "The propertied and satisfied classes." M. Arnold. 

PROPERTY:  All the adjuncts of a play except the scenery and the dresses of the actors; stage requisites. I will draw a bill of properties. Shak.  6. Propriety; correctness. [Obs.] Camden. Literary property. (Law) See under Literary.  -- Property man, one who has charge of the "properties" of a theater. 

PROPHANE:  See Profane. [Obs.] 

PROPHASIS:  Foreknowledge of a disease; prognosis. 

PROPHECY:  A book of prophecies; a history; as, the prophecy of Ahijah. 2 Chron. ix. 29.  3. Public interpretation of Scripture; preaching; exhortation or instruction. 

PROPHESIER:  A prophet. Shak. 

PROPHET:  A mantis. School of the prophets (Anc. Jewish Hist.), a school or college in which young men were educated and trained for public teachers or members of the prophetic order. These students were called sons of the prophets. 

PROPHETESS:  A female prophet.  PROPHETIC; PROPHETICAL Pro*phet"ic, Pro*phet"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. propheticus, Gr. prophétique.]  Containing, or pertaining to, prophecy; foretelling events; as, prophetic writings; prophetic dreams; -- used with of before the thing foretold. And fears are oft prophetic of the event. Dryden. 

PROPHETICALITY:  Propheticalness. 

PROPHETICALLY:  In a prophetical manner; by way of prediction. 

PROPHETICALNESS:  The quality or state of being prophetical; power or capacity to foretell. 

PROPHETIZE:  To give predictions; to foreshow events; to prophesy. [R.] "Prophetizing dreams." Daniel. 

PROPHORIC:  Enunciative. [R.] 

PROPHRAGMA:  An internal dorsal chitinous process between the first two divisions of the thorax of insects. 

PROPHYLACTIC:  A medicine which preserves or defends against disease; a preventive.  PROPHYLACTIC; PROPHYLACTICAL Proph`y*lac"tic, Proph`y*lac"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. prophylactique.] (Med.)  Defending or preserving from disease; preventive. Coxe. 

PROPHYLAXIS:  The art of preserving from, or of preventing, disease; the observance of the rules necessary for the preservation of health; preservative or preventive treatment. 

PROPICE:  Fit; propitious. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

PROPIDENE:  The unsymmetrical hypothetical hydrocarbon radical, CH3.CH2.CH, analogous to ethylidene, and regarded as the type of certain derivatives of propane; -- called also propylidene. 

PROPINATION:  The act of pledging, or drinking first, and then offering the cup to another. [Obs.] Abp. Potter. 

PROPINE:  Same as Allylene. 

PROPINYL:  A hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of propine and allied compounds. 

PROPIOLATE:  A salt of propiolic acid. 

PROPIOLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also propargylic acid) of the acetylene or tetrolic series, analogous to propionic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance.C3H2O2, CH.C.COOH 

PROPIONATE:  A salt of propionic acid. 

PROPIONE:  The ketone of propionic acid, obtained as a colorless fragrant liquid. 

PROPIONIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an organic acid which is produced in the distillation of wood, in the fermentation of various organic substances, as glycerin, calcium lactate, etc., and is obtained as a colorless liquid having a sharp, pungent odor. Propionic acid is so called because it is the first or lowest member of the fatty acid series whose salts have a fatty feel. 

PROPIONYL:  The hypothetical radical C3H5O, regarded as the essential residue of propionic acid and certain related compounds. 

PROPITHECUS:  A genus including the long-tailed, or diadem, indris. See Indris. 

PROPITIABLE:  Capable of being propitiated. 

PROPITIATE:  To appease to render favorable; to make propitious; to conciliate. Let fierce Achilles, dreadful in his rage, The god propitiate, and the pest assuage. Pope. 

PROPITIATE:  To make propitiation; to atone. 

PROPITIATION:  That which propitiates; atonement or atoning sacrifice; specifically, the influence or effects of the death of Christ in appeasing the divine justice, and conciliating the divine favor. He [Jesus Christ] is the propitiation for our sins. 1 John ii. 2. 

PROPITIATOR:  One who propitiates or appeases. 

PROPITIATORILY:  By way of propitiation. 

PROPITIATORY:  Having the power to make propitious; pertaining to, or employed in, propitiation; expiatory; as, a propitiatory sacrifice. Sharp. 

PROPITIATORY:  The mercy seat; -- so called because a symbol of the propitiated Jehovah. Bp. Pearson. 

PROPLASM:  A mold; a matrix. [R.] Woodward. 

PROPLASTIC:  Forming a mold. 

PROPLASTICS:  The art of making molds for castings. [R.] 

PROPLEG:  Same as Proleg. 

PROPODIAL:  Of or pertaining to the propodialia, or the parts of the limbs to which they belong. 

PROPODIALE:  The bone of either the upper arm or the thing, the propodialia being the humerus and femur. 

PROPODITE:  The sixth joint of a typical leg of a crustacean; usually, the penultimate joint. 

PROPOLIS:  Same as Bee glue, under Bee. 

PROPONE:  To propose; to bring forward. 

PROPONENT:  Making proposals; proposing. 

PROPONENT:  The propounder of a thing. 

PROPORTIONABLE:  Capable of being proportioned, or made proportional; also, proportional; proportionate.  -- Pro*por"tion*a*ble*ness, n. But eloquence may exist without a proportionable degree of wisdom. Burke. Proportionable, which is no longer much favored, was of our [i. e., English writers'] own coining. Fitzed. Hall. 

PROPORTIONABLY:  Proportionally. Locke. 

PROPORTIONAL:  Any number or quantity in a proportion; as, a mean proportional.  2. (Chem.)  The combining weight or equivalent of an element. [Obs.] 

PROPORTIONALITY:  The state of being in proportion. Coleridge. 

PROPORTIONALLY:  In proportion; in due degree; adapted relatively; as, all parts of the building are proportionally large. Sir I. Newton. 

PROPORTIONATE:  Adjusted to something else according to a proportion; proportional. Longfellow. What is proportionate to his transgression. Locke. 

PROPORTIONATE:  To make proportional; to adjust according to a settled rate, or to due comparative relation; to proportion; as, to proportionate punishment to crimes. 

PROPORTIONATELY:  In a proportionate manner; with due proportion; proportionally. 

PROPORTIONATENESS:  The quality or state of being proportionate. Sir M. Hale. 

PROPORTIONLESS:  Without proportion; unsymmetrical. 

PROPORTIONMENT:  The act or process of dividing out proportionally. 

PROPOSAL:  The offer by a party of what he has in view as to an intended business transaction, which, with acceptance, constitutes a contract.  Syn.  -- Proffer; tender; overture. See Proposition. 

PROPOSE:  Talk; discourse. [Obs.] Shak. 

PROPOSITION:  A complete sentence, or part of a sentence consisting of a subject and predicate united by a copula; a thought expressed or propounded in language; a from of speech in which a predicate is affirmed or denied of a subject; as, snow is white.  5. (Math.)  A statement in terms of a truth to be demonstrated, or of an operation to be performed.  Note: It is called a theorem when it is something to be proved, and a problem when it is something to be done.  6. (Rhet.)  That which is offered or affirmed as the subject of the discourse; anything stated or affirmed for discussion or illustration.  7. (Poetry)  The part of a poem in which the author states the subject or matter of it. Leaves of proposition (Jewish Antiq.), the showbread. Wyclif (Luke vi. 4).  Syn.  -- Proposal; offer; statement; declaration.  -- Proposition, Proposal. These words are both from the Latin verb proponere, to set forth, and as here compared they mark different forms or stages of a negotiation. A proposition is something presented for discussion or consideration; as, propositions of peace. A proposal is some definite thing offered by one party to be accepted or rejected by the other. If the proposition is favorably received, it is usually followed by proposals which complete the arrangement. 

PROPOSITIONAL:  Pertaining to, or in the nature of, a proposition; considered as a proposition; as, a propositional sense. I. Watts. 

PROPOUND:  To propose or name as a candidate for admission to communion with a church. 

PROPOUNDER:  One who propounds, proposes, or offers for consideration. Chillingworth. 

PROPRETOR:  A magistrate who, having been pretor at home, was appointed to the government of a province. [Written also proprætor.] 

PROPRIETARY:  A monk who had reserved goods and effects to himself, notwithstanding his renunciation of all at the time of profession. 

PROPRIETARY:  Belonging, or pertaining, to a proprietor; considered as property; owned; as, proprietary medicine. Proprietary articles, manufactured articles which some person or persons have exclusive right to make and sell. U. S. Statutes. 

PROPRIETOR:  One who has the legal right or exclusive title to anything, whether in possession or not; an owner; as, the proprietor of farm or of a mill. 

PROPRIETORIAL:  Of or pertaining to ownership; proprietary; as, proprietorial rights. 

PROPRIETORSHIP:  The state of being proprietor; ownership. 

PROPRIETRESS:  A female proprietor. 

PROPROCTOR:  A assistant proctor. Hook. 

PROPS:  A game of chance, in which four sea shells, each called a prop, are used instead of dice. 

PROPTERYGIUM:  The anterior of three principal cartilages in the fins of some fishes.  -- Prop`ter*yg"i*al, a. 

PROPUGN:  To contend for; to defend; to vindicate. [Obs.] Hammond. 

PROPUGNACLE:  A fortress. [Obs.] Howell. 

PROPUGNATION:  Means of defense; defense. [Obs.] Shak. 

PROPUGNER:  A defender; a vindicator. "Zealous propugners." Gov. of Tongue. 

PROPULSATION:  The act of driving away or repelling; a keeping at a distance. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

PROPULSE:  To repel; to drive off or away. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

PROPULSIVE:  Tending, or having power, to propel; driving on; urging. "[The] propulsive movement of the verse." Coleridge. 

PROPULSORY:  Propulsive. 

PROPYL:  The hypothetical radical C3H7, regarded as the essential residue of propane and related compounds. 

PROPYLAEUM:  Any court or vestibule before a building or leading into any inclosure. 

PROPYLENE:  A colorless gaseous hydrocarbon (C3H6) of the ethylene series, having a garlic odor. It occurs in coal gas, and is produced artificially in various ways. Called also propene. 

PROPYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, propyl; as, propylic alcohol. 

PROPYLIDENE:  See Propidene. 

PROPYLON:  The porch, vestibule, or entrance of an edifice.  PRO RATA Pro` ra"ta. Etym: [L.]  In proportion; proportionately; according to the share, interest, or liability of each. 

PRORATABLE:  Capable of being prorated, or divided proportionately. [U.S.] 

PRORATE:  To divide or distribute proportionally; to assess pro rata. [U.S.] 

PRORE:  The prow or fore part of a ship. [Poetic] "Galleys with vermilion prores." Pope. 

PRORECTOR:  An officer who presides over the academic senate of a German university. Heyse. 

PRORECTORATE:  The office of prorector. 

PRORENAL:  Pronephric. 

PROREPTION:  A creeping on. 

PRORHINAL:  Situated in front of the nasal chambers. 

PROROGATE:  To prorogue. [R.] 

PRORUPTION:  The act or state of bursting forth; a bursting out. [R.] Sir T. Browne.  PROSAIC; PROSAICAL Pro*sa"ic, Pro*sa"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. prosaius, from prosa prose: cf. F,. prosaïque. See Prose.]  1. Of or pertaining to prose; resembling prose; in the form of prose; unpoetical; writing or using prose; as, a prosaic composition. Cudworth.  2. Dull; uninteresting; commonplace; unimaginative; prosy; as, a prosaic person. Ed. Rev.  -- Pro*sa"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Pro*sa"ic*al*ness, n. 

PROSAICISM:  The quality or state of being prosaic; a prosaic manner or style. [R.] Poe. 

PROSAISM:  That which is in the form of prose writing; a prosaic manner. Coleridge. 

PROSAIST:  A writer of prose; an unpoetical writer. "An estimable prosaist." I. Taylor. 

PROSAL:  Of or pertaining to prose; prosaic. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PROSCENIUM:  The part where the actors performed; the stage.  2. (Modern Theater)  The part of the stage in front of the curtain; sometimes, the curtain and its framework. proscenium arch, the framework around the front of the stage. 

PROSCOLEX:  An early larval form of a trematode worm; a redia. See Redia. 

PROSCRIBER:  One who, or that which, proscribes, denounces, or prohibits. 

PROSCRIPTIONAL:  Proscriptive. 

PROSCRIPTIONIST:  One who proscribes. 

PROSCRIPTIVE:  Of or pertaining to proscription; consisting in, or of the nature of, proscription; proscribing. Burke.  -- Pro*scrip"tive*ly, adv. 

PROSE:  A hymn with no regular meter, sometimes introduced into the Mass. See Sequence. 

PROSECTOR:  One who makes dissections for anatomical illustration; usually, the assistant of a professional anatomist. 

PROSECUTABLE:  Capable of being prosecuted; liable to prosecution. 

PROSECUTE:  To pursue with the intention of punishing; to accuse of some crime or breach of law, or to pursue for redress or punishment, before a legal tribunal; to proceed against judicially; as, to prosecute a man for trespass, or for a riot. To acquit themselves and prosecute their foes. Milton. 

PROSECUTE:  To institute and carry on a legal prosecution; as, to prosecute for public offenses. Blackstone. 

PROSECUTOR:  The person who institutes and carries on a criminal suit against another in the name of the government. Blackstone. 

PROSECUTRIX:  A female prosecutor. 

PROSELYTE:  A new convert especially a convert to some religion or religious sect, or to some particular opinion, system, or party; thus, a Gentile converted to Judaism, or a pagan converted to Christianity, is a proselyte. Ye [Scribes and Pharisees] compass sea and land to make one proselyte. Matt. xxiii. 15. Fresh confidence the speculatist takes From every harebrained proselyte he makes. Cowper.  Syn.  -- See Convert. 

PROSELYTE:  To convert to some religion, opinion, or system; to bring over. Dr. H. More. 

PROSELYTIZE:  To convert to some religion, system, opinion, or the like; to bring, or cause to come, over; to proselyte. One of those whom they endeavor to proselytize. Burke. 

PROSELYTIZE:  To make converts or proselytes. 

PROSELYTIZER:  One who proselytes. 

PROSEMAN:  A writer of prose. [R.] 

PROSEMINARY:  A seminary which prepares pupils for a higher institution. T. Warton. 

PROSEMINATION:  Propagation by seed. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

PROSENCEPHALIC:  Of or pertaining to the prosencephalon. 

PROSENCHYMA:  A general term applied to the tissues formed of elongated cells, especially those with pointed or oblique extremities, as the principal cells of ordinary wood. 

PROSILIENCY:  The act of leaping forth or forward; projection. "Such prosiliency of relief." Coleridge. 

PROSILY:  In a prosy manner. 

PROSIMETRICAL:  Consisting both of prose and verse. Clarke. 

PROSIMIAE:  Same as Lemuroidea. 

PROSINESS:  The quality or state of being prosy; tediousness; tiresomeness. 

PROSING:  Writing prose; speaking or writing in a tedious or prosy manner. Sir W. Scott. 

PROSINGLY:  Prosily. 

PROSIPHON:  A minute tube found in the protocon 

PROSIT:  Lit., may it do (you) good; -- a salutation used in well wishing, esp. among Germans, as in drinking healths. 

PROSLAVERY:  Favoring slavery.  -- n.  Advocacy of slavery. 

PROSOBRANCH:  One of the Prosobranchiata. 

PROSOBRANCHIATA:  The highest division, or subclass, of gastropod mollusks, including those that have the gills situated anteriorly, or forward of the heart, and the sexes separate. 

PROSOCOELE:  The entire cavity of the prosencephalon. B. G. Wilder. 

PROSOCOELIA:  Same as Prosocoele. 

PROSODIACAL:  Prosodical. 

PROSODIACALLY:  Prosodically. 

PROSODIAL:  Prosodical. 

PROSODIAN:  A prosodist. Rush. 

PROSODICAL:  Of or pertaining to prosody; according to the rules of prosody.  -- Pro*sod"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PROSODIST:  One skilled in prosody. 

PROSODY:  That part of grammar which treats of the quantity of syllables, of accent, and of the laws of versification or metrical composition. 

PROSOMA:  The anterior of the body of an animal, as of a cephalopod; the thorax of an arthropod. 

PROSOPALGIA:  Facial neuralgia. 

PROSOPOCEPHALA:  Same as Scaphopoda. 

PROSOPOLEPSY:  Respect of persons; especially, a premature opinion or prejudice against a person, formed from his external appearance. [R.] Addison. 

PROSOPOPOEIA:  A figure by which things are represented as persons, or by which things inanimate are spoken of as animated beings; also, a figure by which an absent person is introduced as speaking, or a deceased person is represented as alive and present. It includes personification, but is more extensive in its signification. 

PROSOPULMONATA:  A division of pulmonate mollusks having the breathing organ situated on the neck, as in the common snail. 

PROSPECT:  To look over; to explore or examine for something; as, to prospect a district for gold. 

PROSPECT:  To make a search; to seek; to explore, as for mines or the like; as, to prospect for gold. 

PROSPECTION:  The act of looking forward, or of providing for future wants; foresight. 

PROSPECTIVELY:  In a prospective manner. 

PROSPECTIVENESS:  Quality of being prospective. 

PROSPECTLESS:  Having no prospect. 

PROSPECTOR:  One who prospects; especially, one who explores a region for minerals and precious metals. 

PROSPECTUS:  A summary, plan, or scheme of something proposed, affording a prospect of its nature; especially, an exposition of the scheme of an unpublished literary work. 

PROSPER:  To favor; to render successful. "Prosper thou our handiwork." Bk. of Common Prayer. All things concur toprosper our design. Dryden. 

PROSPERITY:  The state of being prosperous; advance or gain in anything good or desirable; successful progress in any business or enterprise; attainment of the object desired; good fortune; success; as, commercial prosperity; national prosperity. Now prosperity begins to mellow. Shak. Prosperities can only be enjoyed by them who fear not at all to lose the Jer. Taylor.  Syn.  -- Fortunate; successful; flourishing; thriving; favorable; auspicious; lucky. See Fortunate.  -- Pros"per*ous*ly, adv.  -- Pros"per*ous*ness, n. 

PROSPHYSIS:  A growing together of parts; specifically, a morbid adhesion of the eyelids to each other or to the eyeball. Dunglison. 

PROSPICIENCE:  The act of looking forward. 

PROSTATE:  Standing before; -- applied to a gland which is found in the males of most mammals, and is situated at the neck of the bladder where this joins the urethra.  -- n.  The prostate gland. 

PROSTATIC:  Of or pertaining to the prostate gland. Prostatic catheter. (Med.) See under Catheter. 

PROSTATITIS:  Inflammation of the prostate. 

PROSTERNATION:  Dejection; depression. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

PROSTERNUM:  The ventral plate of the prothorax of an insect. 

PROSTHESIS:  The addition to the human body of some artificial part, to replace one that is wanting, as a log or an eye; -- called also prothesis.  2. (Gram.)  The prefixing of one or more letters to the beginning of a word, as in beloved. 

PROSTHETIC:  Of or pertaining to prosthesis; prefixed, as a letter or letters to a word. 

PROSTIBULOUS:  Of or pertaining to prostitutes or prostitution; meretricious. [Obs.] Bale. 

PROSTITUTE:  Openly given up to lewdness; devoted to base or infamous purposes. Made bold by want, and prostitute for bread. Prior 

PROSTITUTOR:  One who prostitutes; one who submits himself, of or offers another, to vile purposes. Bp. Hurd. 

PROSTOMIUM:  That portion of the head of an annelid situated in front of the mouth.  -- Pro*sto"mi*al, a. 

PROSTRATE:  Trailing on the ground; procumbent. 

PROSTRATION:  A latent, not an exhausted, state of the vital energies; great oppression of natural strength and vigor.  Note: Prostration, in its medical use, is analogous to the state of a spring lying under such a weight that it is incapable of action; while exhaustion is analogous to the state of a spring deprived of its elastic powers. The word, however, is often used to denote any great depression of the vital powers. 

PROSTYLE:  Having columns in front.  -- n.  A prostyle portico or building. 

PROSYLOGISM:  A syllogism preliminary or logically essential to another syllogism; the conclusion of such a syllogism, which becomes a premise of the following syllogism. 

PROTACTIC:  Giving a previous narrative or explanation, as of the plot or personages of a play; introductory. = 32,500 yrs.) Also called brevium, Uranium X2 and UX2. 

PROTAGON:  A nitrogenous phosphorized principle found in brain tissue. By decomposition it yields neurine, fatty acids, and other bodies. 

PROTAGONIST:  One who takes the leading part in a drama; hence, one who takes lead in some great scene, enterprise, conflict, or the like. Shakespeare, the protagonist on the great of modern poetry. De Quincey. 

PROTAMIN:  An amorphous nitrogenous substance found in the spermatic fluid of salmon. It is soluble in water, which an alkaline reaction, and unites with acids and metallic bases. 

PROTANDRIC:  Having male sexual organs while young, and female organs later in life.  -- Pro*tan"trism, n. 

PROTANDROUS:  Proterandrous. 

PROTASIS:  The introductory or subordinate member of a sentence, generally of a conditional sentence; -- opposed to apodosis. See Apodosis.  3. The first part of a drama, of a poem, or the like; the introduction; opposed to epitasis. B. Jonson. 

PROTATIC:  Of or pertaining to the protasis of an ancient play; introductory. 

PROTEACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Proteaceæ, an order of apetalous evergreen shrubs, mostly natives of the Cape of Good Hope or of Australia. 

PROTEANLY:  In a protean manner. Cudworth. 

PROTECT:  To cover or shield from danger or injury; to defend; to guard; to preserve in safety; as, a father protects his children. The gods of Greece protect you! Shak.  Syn.  -- To guard; shield; preserve. See Defend. 

PROTECTINGLY:  By way of protection; in a protective manner. 

PROTECTION:  A theory, or a policy, of protecting the producers in a country from foreign competition in the home market by the imposition of such discriminating duties on goods of foreign production as will restrict or prevent their importation; -- opposed to free trade. Writ of protection. (Law) (a) A writ by which the king formerly exempted a person from arrest; -- now disused. [Eng.] Blackstone. (b) A judicial writ issued to a person required to attend court, as party, juror, etc., intended to secure him from arrest in coming, staying, and returning.  Syn.  -- Preservation; defense; guard; shelter; refuge; security; safety. 

PROTECTIONISM:  The doctrine or policy of protectionists. See Protection, 4. 

PROTECTIONIST:  One who favors protection. See Protection, 4. 

PROTECTIVE:  Affording protection; sheltering; defensive. " The favor of a protective Providence." Feltham. Protective coloring (Zoöl.), coloring which serves for the concealment and preservation of a living organism. Cf. Mimicry. Wallace.  -- Protective tariff (Polit. Econ.), a tariff designed to secure protection (see Protection, 4.), as distinguished from a tariff designed to raise revenue. See Tariff, and Protection, 4. 

PROTECTIVENESS:  The quality or state of being protective. W. Pater. 

PROTECTOR:  One having the care of the kingdom during the king's minority; a regent. Is it concluded he shall be protector ! Shak.  3. (R. C. Ch.)  A cardinal, from one of the more considerable Roman Catholic nations, who looks after the interests of his people at Rome; also, a cardinal who has the same relation to a college, religious order, etc. Lord Protector (Eng. Hist.), the title of Oliver Cromwell as supreme governor of the British Commonwealth (1653-1658). 

PROTECTORAL:  Of or pertaining to a protector; protectorial; as, protectoral power. 

PROTECTORIAL:  Same as Protectoral. 

PROTECTORLESS:  Having no protector; unprotected. 

PROTECTORSHIP:  , The office of a protector or regent; protectorate.  PROTECTRESS; PROTECTRIX Pro*tect"ress, Pro*tect"rix, n. Etym: [NL. protectrix.]  A woman who protects.  PROTEGE; PROTEGEE Pro`té`gé", n. m. Pro`té`gée", n. f. Etym: [F., p. p. of protéger. See Protect.]  One under the care and protection of another. 

PROTEID:  One of a class of amorphous nitrogenous principles, containing, as a rule, a small amount of sulphur; an albuminoid, as blood fibrin, casein of milk, etc. Proteids are present in nearly all animal fluids and make up the greater part of animal tissues and organs. They are also important constituents of vegetable tissues. See 2d Note under Food.  -- Pro"te*id, a. 

PROTEIDEA:  An order of aquatic amphibians having prominent external gills and four legs. It includes Proteus and Menobranchus (Necturus). Called also Proteoidea, and Proteida. 

PROTEIFORM:  Changeable in form; resembling a Proteus, or an amoeba. 

PROTEIN:  A body now known as alkali albumin, but originally considered to be the basis of all albuminous substances, whence its name. Protein crystal. (Bot.) See Crystalloid, n., 2. 

PROTEINACEOUS:  Of or related to protein; albuminous; proteid. 

PROTEINOUS:  Proteinaceuos. 

PROTELES:  A South Africa genus of Carnivora, allied to the hyenas, but smaller and having weaker jaws and teeth. It includes the aard-wolf. 

PROTEND:  To hold out; to stretch forth. [Obs.] With his protended lance he makes defence. Dryden . 

PROTENSE:  Extension.[Obs.] " By due degrees and long protense." Spenser. 

PROTENSION:  A drawing out; extension. [R.] Sir W. Hamilton. 

PROTENSIVE:  Drawn out; extended. [R.] Time is a protensive quantity. Sir W. Hamilton. 

PROTEOLYSIS:  The digestion or dissolving of proteid matter by proteolytic ferments. 

PROTEOLYTIC:  Converting proteid or albuminous matter into soluble and diffusible products, as peptones. " The proteolytic ferment of the pancreas." Foster. 

PROTEOSE:  One of a class of soluble products formed in the digestion of proteids with gastric and pancreatic juice, and also by the hydrolytic action of boiling dilute acids on proteids. Proteoses are divided into the two groups, the primary and secondary proteoses. 

PROTERANDROUS:  Having the stamens come to maturity before the pistil; -- opposed to proterogynous. 

PROTERANDRY:  The condition of being proterandrous. 

PROTERANTHOUS:  Having flowers appearing before the leaves; -- said of certain plants. Gray. 

PROTEROGLYPHA:  A suborder of serpents including those that have permanently erect grooved poison fangs, with ordinary teeth behind them in the jaws. It includes the cobras, the asps, and the sea snakes. Called also Proteroglyphia. 

PROTEROGYNOUS:  Having the pistil come to maturity before the stamens; protogynous; -- opposed to proterandrous. 

PROTEROSAURUS:  An extinct genus of reptiles of the Permian period. Called also Protosaurus. 

PROTERVITY:  Peevishness; petulance. [Obs.] Fuller. 

PROTESTANCY:  Protestantism. [R.] 

PROTESTANT:  One who protests; -- originally applied to those who adhered to Luther, and protested against, or made a solemn declaration of dissent from, a decree of the Emperor Charles V. and the Diet of Spires, in 1529, against the Reformers, and appealed to a general council; -- now used in a popular sense to designate any Christian who does not belong to the Roman Catholic or the Greek Church. 

PROTESTANTICAL:  Protestant. [Obs.] 

PROTESTANTISM:  The quality or state of being protestant, especially against the Roman Catholic Church; the principles or religion of the Protestants. 

PROTESTANTLY:  Like a Protestant; in conformity with Protestantism. [R.] Milton. 

PROTESTATION:  Formerly, a declaration in common-law pleading, by which the party interposes an oblique allegation or denial of some fact, protesting that it does or does not exist, and at the same time avoiding a direct affirmation or denial. 

PROTESTATOR:  One who makes protestation; a protester. 

PROTESTER:  One who protests a bill of exchange, or note. 

PROTESTINGLY:  By way of protesting. 

PROTEUS:  A sea god in the service of Neptune who assumed different shapes at will. Hence, one who easily changes his appearance or principles.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) A genus of aquatic eel-shaped amphibians found in caves in Austria. They have permanent external gills as well as lungs. The eyes are small and the legs are weak. (b) A changeable protozoan; an amoeba.  PROTHALAMION; PROTHALAMIUM Pro`tha*la"mi*on, Pro`tha*la"mi*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.  A song in celebration of a marriage. Drayton. 

PROTHALLIUM:  Same as Prothallus. 

PROTHALLUS:  The minute primary growth from the spore of ferns and other Pteridophyta, which bears the true sexual organs; the oöphoric generation of ferns, etc. 

PROTHESIS:  A credence table; -- so called by the Eastern or Greek Church.  2. (Med.)  See Prosthesis. Dunglison. 

PROTHETIC:  Of or pertaining to prothesis; as, a prothetic apparatus.  PROTHONOTARY; PROTONOTARY Pro*thon"o*ta*ry, or; Pro*ton"o*ta*ry, n.; pl. -ries. Etym: [LL. protonotarius, fr. Gr. prw	os first + L. notarius a shorthand writer, a scribe: cf. F. protonotaire.]  1. A chief notary or clerk. " My private prothonotary." Herrick.  2. Formerly, a chief clerk in the Court of King's Bench and in the Court of Common Pleas, now superseded by the master. [Eng.] Wharton. Burrill.  3. A register or chief clerk of a court in certain States of the United States.  4. (R. C. Ch.)  Formerly, one who had the charge of writing the acts of the martyrs, and the circumstances of their death; now, one of twelve persons, constituting a college in the Roman Curia, whose office is to register pontifical acts and to make and preserve the official record of beatifications.  5. (Gr. Ch.)  The chief secretary of the patriarch of Constantinople. Prothonotary warbler (Zoöl.), a small American warbler (Protonotaria citrea). The general color is golden yellow, the back is olivaceous, the rump and tail are ash-color, several outer tail feathers are partly white. 

PROTHONOTARYSHIP:  Office of a prothonotary. 

PROTHORACIC:  Of or pertaining to the prothorax. 

PROTHORAX:  The first or anterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Illusts. of Butterfly and Coleoptera.  PRO THYALOSOMA Pro* thy`a*lo*so"ma, n.; pl. Prothyalosomata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)  The investing portion, or spherical envelope, surrounding the eccentric germinal spot of the germinal vesicle. 

PROTHYALOSOME:  Same as Prothyalosoma. 

PROTIST:  One of the Protista. 

PROTISTA:  A provisional group in which are placed a number of low microscopic organisms of doubtful nature. Some are probably plants, others animals. 

PROTISTON:  One of the Protista.  PROTO- Pro"to-. Etym: [Gr. prw	os first, a superl. fr. Pro-.]  1. A combining form prefix signifying first, primary, primordial; as, protomartyr, the first martyr; protomorphic, primitive in form; protoplast, a primordial organism; prototype, protozoan.  2. (Chem.) (a) Denoting the first or lowest of a series, or the one having the smallest amount of the element to the name of which it is prefixed; as protoxide, protochloride, etc. (b) Sometimes used as equivalent to mono-, as indicating that the compound has but one atom of the element to the name of which it is prefixed. Also used adjectively. 

PROTOCANONICAL:  Of or pertaining to the first canon, or that which contains the authorized collection of the books of Scripture; -- opposed to deutero-canonical. 

PROTOCATECHUIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an organic acid which is obtained as a white crystalline substance from catechin, asafetida, oil of cloves, etc., and by distillation itself yields pyrocatechin. 

PROTOCERCAL:  Having a caudal fin extending around the end of the vertebral column, like that which is first formed in the embryo of fishes; diphycercal. 

PROTOCOCCUS:  A genus of minute unicellular algæ including the red snow plant (Protococcus nivalis). 

PROTOCOL:  To make a protocol of. 

PROTOCOL:  To make or write protocols, or first draughts; to issue protocols. Carlyle. 

PROTOCOLIST:  One who draughts protocols. 

PROTOCONCH:  The embryonic shell, or first chamber, of ammonites and other cephalopods.  PROTO-DORIC Pro`to-Dor*ic, a. Etym: [Proto- + Doric.] (Arch.)  Pertaining to, or designating, architecture, in which the beginnings of the Doric style are supposed to be found. 

PROTOGINE:  A kind of granite or gneiss containing a silvery talcose mineral. 

PROTOGYNOUS:  Same as Proterogynous. 

PROTOHIPPUS:  A genus of fossil horses from the Lower Pliocene. They had three toes on each foot, the lateral ones being small. 

PROTOMARTYR:  The first martyr; the first who suffers, or is sacrificed, in any cause; -- applied esp. to Stephen, the first Christian martyr. 

PROTOMERITE:  The second segment of one of the Gregarinæ. 

PROTOMETALS:  A finer form of metals, indicated by enhanced lines in their spark spectra (which are also observed in the spectra of some stars), obtained at the highest available laboratory temperatures (Lockyer); as protocalcium, protochromium, protocopper, protonickel, protosilicon, protostrontium, prototitanium, protovanadium. -- Pro`to*me*tal"ic (#), a. 

PROTOMORPHIC:  Having the most primitive character; in the earliest form; as, a protomorphic layer of tissue. H. Spencer. 

PROTONEMA:  The primary growth from the spore of a moss, usually consisting of branching confervoid filaments, on any part of which stem and leaf buds may be developed. 

PROTONOTARY:  Same as Prothonotary.  PROTOORGANISM; PROTOOERGANISM Pro`to*ör"gan*ism, n. Etym: [Proto- + organism.] (Biol.)  An organism whose nature is so difficult to determine that it might be referred to either the animal or the vegetable kingdom. 

PROTOPAPAS:  A protopope. 

PROTOPHYTE:  Any unicellular plant, or plant forming only a plasmodium, having reproduction only by fission, gemmation, or cell division.  Note: The protophytes (Protophyta) are by some botanists considered an independent branch or class of the vegetable kingdom, and made to include the lowest forms of both fungi and algæ, as slime molds, Bacteria, the nostocs, etc. Cf. Carpophyte, and Oöphyte. 

PROTOPHYTOLOGY:  Paleobotany. 

PROTOPINE:  An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted as a white crystalline substance. 

PROTOPLASM:  The viscid and more or less granular material of vegetable and animal cells, possessed of vital properties by which the processes of nutrition, secretion, and growth go forward; the so-called " physical basis of life;" the original cell substance, cytoplasm, cytoblastema, bioplasm sarcode, etc.  Note: The lowest forms of animal and vegetable life (unicellular organisms) consist of simple or unaltered protoplasm; the tissues of the higher organisms, of differentiated protoplasm. 

PROTOPLASMATIC:  Protoplasmic. 

PROTOPLASMIC:  Of or pertaining to protoplasm; consisting of, or resembling, protoplasm. 

PROTOPLAST:  A first-formed organized body; the first individual, or pair of individuals, of a species. A species is a class of individuals, each of which is hypothetically considered to be the descendant of the same protoplast, or of the same pair of protoplasts. Latham. 

PROTOPLASTA:  A division of fresh-water rhizopods including those that have a soft body and delicate branched pseudopodia. The genus Gromia is one of the best-known. 

PROTOPLASTIC:  First-formed. Howell. 

PROTOPODITE:  The basal portion, or two proximal and more or less consolidated segments, of an appendage of a crustacean. 

PROTOPOPE:  One of the clergy of first rank in the lower order of secular clergy; an archpriest; -- called also protopapas. 

PROTOPTERUS:  See Komtok. 

PROTOSALT:  A salt derived from a protoxide base. [Obs.] 

PROTOSILICATE:  A silicate formed with the lowest proportion of silicic acid, or having but one atom of silicon in the molecule. 

PROTOSOMITE:  One of the primitive segments, or metameres, of an animal. 

PROTOSULPHIDE:  That one of a series of sulphides of any element which has the lowest proportion of sulphur; a sulphide with but one atom of sulphur in the molecule. 

PROTOSULPHURET:  A protosulphide. [Obs.] 

PROTOTHERIA:  Same as Monotremata. 

PROTOTRACHEATA:  Same as Malacopoda. 

PROTOTYPE:  An original or model after which anything is copied; the pattern of anything to be engraved, or otherwise copied, cast, or the like; a primary form; exemplar; archetype. They will turn their backs on it, like their great precursor and prototype. Burke. 

PROTOVERTEBRA:  One of the primitive masses, or segments, into which the mesoblast of the vertebrate embryo breaks up on either side of the anterior part of the notochord; a mesoblastic, or protovertebral, somite. See Illust. of Ectoderm.  Note: The protovertebræ were long regarded as rudiments of the permanent vertebræ, but they are now known to give rise to the dorsal muscles and other structures as well as the vertebral column. See Myotome. 

PROTOVERTEBRAL:  Of or pertaining to the protovertebræ. 

PROTOXIDE:  That one of a series of oxides having the lowest proportion of oxygen. See Proto-, 2 (b). protoxide of nitrogen, laughing gas, now called hyponitrous oxideNO. See under Laughing. 

PROTOXIDIZE:  To combine with oxygen, as any elementary substance, in such proportion as to form a protoxide. 

PROTOZOA:  The lowest of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom.  Note: The entire animal consists of a single cell which is variously modified; but in many species a number of these simple zooids are united together so as to form a compound body or organism, as in the Foraminifera and Vorticellæ. The reproduction takes place by fission, or by the breaking up of the contents of the body after encystment, each portion becoming a distinct animal, or in other ways, but never by true eggs. The principal divisions are Rhizopoda, Gregarinæ, and Infusoria. See also Foraminifera, Heliozoa, Protoplasta, Radiolaria, Flagellata, Ciliata. 

PROTOZOAN:  Of or pertaining to the Protozoa.  -- n.  One of the Protozoa. 

PROTOZOIC:  Of or pertaining to the Protozoa.  2. (Geol.)  Containing remains of the earliest discovered life of the globe, which included mollusks, radiates and protozoans.  PROTOZOON; PROTOZOOEN Pro`to*zo"ön (-ôn), n.; pl. Protozoa. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.) (a) One of the Protozoa. (b) A single zooid of a compound protozoan.  PROTOZOONITE; PROTOZOOENITE Pro`to*zo"ö*nite, n. (Zoöl.)  One of the primary, or first-formed, segments of an embryonic arthropod. 

PROTRACHEATA:  Same as Malacopoda. 

PROTRACT:  To draw to a scale; to lay down the lines and angles of, with scale and protractor; to plot.  4. (Zoöl.)  To extend; to protrude; as, the cat can protract its claws; -- opposed to retract. 

PROTRACT:  Tedious continuance or delay. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PROTRACTED:  Prolonged; continued. Protracted meeting,a religious meeting continued for many successive days. [U. S.] -- Pro*tract"ed*ly, adv.  -- Pro*tract"ed*ness, n. 

PROTRACTER:  A protractor. 

PROTRACTILE:  Capable of being protracted, or protruded; protrusile. 

PROTRACTIVE:  Drawing out or lengthening in time; prolonging; continuing; delaying. He suffered their protractive arts. Dryden. 

PROTRACTOR:  An instrument formerly used in extracting foreign or offensive matter from a wound.  4. (Anat.)  A muscle which extends an organ or part; -- opposed to retractor.  5. An adjustable pattern used by tailors. Knight. 

PROTREPTICAL:  Adapted to persuade; hortatory; persuasive. [Obs.] Bp. Ward. 

PROTRUDABLE:  That may be protruded; protrusile. Darwin. 

PROTRUDE:  To shoot out or forth; to be thrust forward; to extend beyond a limit; to project. The parts protrude beyond the skin. Bacon. 

PROTRUSILE:  Capable of being protruded or thrust out; protractile; protrusive. 

PROTRUSIVELY:  In a protrusive manner. 

PROTUBERANCE:  That which is protuberant swelled or pushed beyond the surrounding or adjacent surface; a swelling or tumor on the body; a prominence; a bunch or knob; an elevation. Solar protuberances (Astron.), certain rose-colored masses on the limb of the sun which are seen to extend beyond the edge of the moon at the time of a solar eclipse. They may be discovered with the spectroscope on any clear day. Called also solar prominences. See Illust. in Append.  Syn.  -- Projection, Protuberance. protuberance differs from projection, being applied to parts that rise from the surface with a gradual ascent or small angle; whereas a projection may be at a right angle with the surface. 

PROTUBERANCY:  The quality or state of being protuberant; protuberance; prominence. 

PROTUBERANT:  Prominent, or excessively prominent; bulging beyond the surrounding or adjacent surface; swelling; as, a protuberant joint; a protuberant eye.  -- Pro*tu"ber*ant*ly, adv. 

PROTUBERATE:  To swell, or be prominent, beyond the adjacent surface; to bulge out. S. Sharp. 

PROTUBERATION:  The act of swelling beyond the surrounding surface. Cooke (1615). 

PROTUBEROUS:  Protuberant. [R.] 

PROTURETER:  The duct of a pronephros. Haeckel. 

PROTYLE:  The hypothetical homogeneous cosmic material of the original universe, supposed to have been differentiated into what are recognized as distinct chemical elements. 

PROUDISH:  Somewhat proud. Ash. 

PROUDLING:  A proud or haughty person. Sylvester. 

PROUDLY:  In a proud manner; with lofty airs or mien; haughtily; arrogantly; boastfully. Proudly he marches on, and void of fear. Addison. 

PROUDNESS:  The quality of being proud; pride. Set aside all arrogancy and proudness. Latimer. 

PROUSTITE:  A sulphide of arsenic and silver of a beautiful cochineal-red color, occurring in rhombohedral crystals, and also massive; ruby silver. 

PROVABLE:  Capable of being proved; demonstrable.  -- Prov"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Prov"a*bly, adv.  PROVAND; PROANT Prov"and, Pro"ant, n. Etym: [See Provender.]  Provender or food. [Obs.] One pease was a soldier's provant a whole day. Beau. & Fl. 

PROVANT:  To supply with provender or provisions; to provide for. [Obs.] Nash. 

PROVANT:  Provided for common or general use, as in an army; hence, common in quality; inferior. "A poor provant rapier." B. Jonson. 

PROVE:  To test, evince, ascertain, or verify, as the correctness of any operation or result; thus, in subtraction, if the difference between two numbers, added to the lesser number, makes a sum equal to the greater, the correctness of the subtraction is proved.  6. (Printing)  To take a trial impression of; to take a proof of; as, to prove a page.  Syn.  -- To try; verify; justify; confirm; establish; evince; manifest; show; demonstrate. 

PROVECT:  Carried forward; advanced. [Obs.] "Provect in years." Sir T. Flyot. 

PROVECTION:  A carrying forward, as of a final letter, to a following word; as, for example, a nickname for an ekename. 

PROVEDITOR:  One employed to procure supplies, as for an army, a steamer, etc.; a purveyor; one who provides for another. Jer. Taylor. 

PROVEDORE:  A proveditor; a purveyor. Busied with the duties of a provedore. W. Irving. 

PROVEN:  Proved. "Accusations firmly proven in his mind." Thackeray. Of this which was the principal charge, and was generally believed to beproven, he was acquitted. Jowett (Thucyd. ). Not proven (Scots Law), a verdict of a jury that the guilt of the accused is not made out, though not disproved. Mozley & W. 

PROVENANCE:  Origin; source; provenience.  Their age attested by their provenance and associations. A. H. Keane. 

PROVENCAL:  Of or pertaining to Provence or its inhabitants. 

PROVENCIAL:  Of or pertaining to Provence in France. 

PROVEND:  See Provand. [Obs.] 

PROVENIENCE:  Origin; source; place where found or produced; provenance; -- used esp. in the fine arts and in archæology; as, the provenience of a patera. 

PROVENIENT:  Forthcoming; issuing. [Rare] 

PROVENT:  See Provand. [Obs.] 

PROVENTRICLE:  Proventriculus. 

PROVENTRIULUS:  The glandular stomach of birds, situated just above the crop. 

PROVER:  One who, or that which, proves. 

PROVERB:  To write or utter proverbs. [R.] 

PROVERBIALISM:  A proverbial phrase. 

PROVERBIALIST:  One who makes much use of proverbs in speech or writing; one who composes, collects, or studies proverbs. 

PROVERBIALIZE:  To turn into a proverb; to speak in proverbs. 

PROVERBIALLY:  In a proverbial manner; by way of proverb; hence, commonly; universally; as, it is proverbially said; the bee is proverbially busy. 

PROVEXITY:  Great advance in age. [Obs.] 

PROVIDED:  On condition; by stipulation; with the understanding; if; -- usually followed by that; as, provided that nothing in this act shall prejudice the rights of any person whatever. Provided the deductions are logical, they seem almost indifferent to their truth. G. H. Lewes.  Note: This word is strictly a participle, and the word being is understood, the participle provided agreeing with the whole sentence absolute, and being equivalent to this condition being previously stipulated or established. 

PROVIDENCE:  A manifestation of the care and superintendence which God exercises over his creatures; an event ordained by divine direction. He that hath a numerous family, and many to provide for, needs a greater providence of God. Jer. Taylor.  4. Prudence in the management of one's concerns; economy; frugality. It is a high point of providence in a prince to cast an eye rather upon actions than persons. Quarles. 

PROVIDENT:  Foreseeing wants and making provision to supply them; prudent in preparing for future exigencies; cautious; economical; -- sometimes followed by of; as, aprovident man; an animal provident of the future. And of our good and of our dignity, How provident he is. Milton.  Syn.  -- Forecasting; cautious; careful; prudent; frugal; economical. 

PROVIDENTIAL:  Effected by, or referable to, divine direction or superintendence; as, the providential contrivance of thing; a providential escape.  -- Prov"i*den"tial*ly, adv. 

PROVIDENTLY:  In a provident manner. 

PROVIDENTNESS:  The quality or state of being provident; carefulness; prudence; economy. 

PROVIDER:  One who provides, furnishes, or supplies; one who procures what is wanted. 

PROVIDORE:  One who makes provision; a purveyor. [R.] De Foe. 

PROVINCE:  A country or region, more or less remote from the city of Rome, brought under the Roman government; a conquered country beyond the limits of Italy. Wyclif (Acts xiii. 34). Milton.  2. A country or region dependent on a distant authority; a portion of an empire or state, esp. one remote from the capital. "Kingdoms and provinces." Shak.  3. A region of country; a tract; a district. Over many a tract of heaven they marched, and many a province wide. Milton. Other provinces of the intellectual world. I. Watts.  4. A region under the supervision or direction of any special person; the district or division of a country, especially an ecclesiastical division, over which one has jurisdiction; as, the province of Canterbury, or that in which the archbishop of Canterbury exercises ecclesiastical authority.  5. The proper or appropriate business or duty of a person or body; office; charge; jurisdiction; sphere. The woman'sprovince is to be careful in her economy, and chaste in her affection. Tattler.  6. Specif.: Any political division of the Dominion of Canada, having a governor, a local legislature, and representation in the Dominion parliament. Hence, colloquially, The Provinces, the Dominion of Canada. 

PROVINCIAL:  A monastic superior, who, under the general of his order, has the direction of all the religious houses of the same fraternity in a given district, called a province of the order. 

PROVINCIALISM:  A word, or a manner of speaking, peculiar to a province or a district remote from the mother country or from the metropolis; a provincial characteristic; hence, narrowness; illiberality. M. Arnold. 

PROVINCIALIST:  One who lives in a province; a provincial. 

PROVINCIALITY:  The quality or state of being provincial; peculiarity of language characteristic of a province. T. Warton. 

PROVINCIALIZE:  To render provincial. M. Arnold. 

PROVINCIALLY:  In a provincial manner. 

PROVINCIATE:  To convert into a province or provinces. [Obs.] Howell. 

PROVINE:  To lay a stock or branch of a vine in the ground for propagation. [Obs.] Johnson. 

PROVISION:  A canonical term for regular induction into a benefice, comprehending nomination, collation, and installation.  6. (Eng. Hist.)  A nomination by the pope to a benefice before it became vacant, depriving the patron of his right of presentation. Blackstone. 

PROVISION:  To supply with food; to victual; as, to provision a garrison. They were provisioned for a journey. Palfrey. 

PROVISIONAL:  Of the nature of a provision; serving as a provision for the time being; -- used of partial or temporary arrangements; as, a provisional government; a provisional treaty. 

PROVISIONALLY:  By way of provision for the time being; temporarily. Locke. 

PROVISIONARY:  Provisional. Burke. 

PROVISO:  An article or clause in any statute, agreement, contract, grant, or other writing, by which a condition is introduced, usually beginning with the word provided; a conditional stipulation that affects an agreement, contract, law, grant, or the like; as, the contract was impaired by its proviso. He doth deny his prisoners, But with proviso and exception. Shak. 

PROVISOR:  One who procures or receives a papal provision. See Provision, 6. 

PROVISORILY:  In a provisory manner; conditionally; subject to a proviso; as, to admit a doctrine provisorily. Sir W. Hamilton. 

PROVISORSHIP:  The office or position of a provisor. [R.] J. Webster. 

PROVOCATION:  Such prior insult or injury as may be supposed, under the circumstances, to create hot blood, and to excuse an assault made in retort or redress.  5. An appeal to a court.  Note: [A Latinism] [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

PROVOCATIVE:  Serving or tending to provoke, excite, or stimulate; exciting. 

PROVOCATIVE:  Anything that is provocative; a stimulant; as, a provocative of appetite. 

PROVOCATIVENESS:  Quality of being provocative. 

PROVOCATORY:  Provocative. 

PROVOKABLE:  That may be provoked. 

PROVOKE:  To call forth; to call into being or action; esp., to incense to action, a faculty or passion, as love, hate, or ambition; hence, commonly, to incite, as a person, to action by a challenge, by taunts, or by defiance; to exasperate; to irritate; to offend intolerably; to cause to retaliate. Obey his voice, provoke him not. Ex. xxiii. 21. Ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. Eph. vi. 4. Such acts Of contumacy will provoke the Highest To make death in us live. Milton. Can honor's voice provoke the silent dust Gray. To the poet the meaning is what he pleases to make it, what it provokes in his own soul. J. Burroughs.  Syn.  -- To irritate; arouse; stir up; awake; excite; incite; anger. See Irritate. 

PROVOKEMENT:  The act that which, provokes; one who excites anger or other passion, or incites to action; as, a provoker of sedition. Drink, sir, is a great provoker of three things. Shak. 

PROVOKING:  Having the power or quality of exciting resentment; tending to awaken passion or vexation; as, provoking words or treatment.  -- Pro*vok"ing*ly, adv. 

PROVOSTSHIP:  The office of a provost. 

PROW:  The fore part of a vessel; the bow; the stem; hence, the vessel itself. Wordsworth. The floating vessel swum Uplifted, and secure with beaked prow rode tilting o'er the waves. Milton. 

PROW:  See Proa. 

PROW:  Valiant; brave; gallant; courageous. [Archaic] Tennyson. The prowest knight that ever field did fight. Spenser. 

PROW:  Benefit; profit; good; advantage. [Obs.] That shall be for your hele and for your prow. Chaucer. 

PROWESS:  Distinguished bravery; valor; especially, military bravery and skill; gallantry; intrepidity; fearlessness. Chaucer. Sir P. Sidney. He by his prowess conquered all France. Shak. 

PROWL:  To rove or wander stealthily, esp. for prey, as a wild beast; hence, to prey; to plunder. 

PROWL:  The act of prowling. [Colloq.] Smart. 

PROWLER:  One that prowls. Thomson. 

PROWLING:  Accustomed to prowl, or engaged in roving stealthily, as for prey. "A prowling wolf." Milton.  -- Prowl"ing*ly, adv. 

PROX:  "The ticket or list of candidates at elections, presented to the people for their votes." [Rhode Island] Bartlett. 

PROXENE:  An officer who had the charge of showing hospitality to those who came from a friendly city or state. 

PROXENET:  A negotiator; a factor. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

PROXENETISM:  The action of a go-between or broker in negotiating immoral bargains between the sexes; procuring. 

PROXIMAD:  Toward a proximal part; on the proximal side of; proximally. 

PROXIMALLY:  On or toward a proximal part; proximad. 

PROXIMATE:  Nearest; next immediately preceding or following. "Proximate ancestors." J. S. Harford. The proximate natural causes of it [the deluge]. T. Burnet. Proximate analysis (Chem.), an analysis which determines the proximate principles of any substance, as contrasted with an ultimate analysis.  -- Proximate cause. (a) A cause which immediately precedes and produces the effect, as distinguished from the remote, mediate, or predisposing cause. I. Watts. (b) That which in ordinary natural sequence produces a specific result, no independent disturbing agencies intervening.  -- Proximate principle (Physiol. Chem.), one of a class of bodies existing ready formed in animal and vegetable tissues, and separable by chemical analysis, as albumin, sugar, collagen, fat, etc.  Syn.  -- Nearest; next; closest; immediate; direct. 

PROXIMATELY:  In a proximate manner, position, or degree; immediately. 

PROXIME:  Next; immediately preceding or following. [Obs.] 

PROXIMIOUS:  Proximate. [Obs.] 

PROXIMITY:  The quality or state of being next in time, place, causation, influence, etc.; immediate nearness, either in place, blood, or alliance. If he plead proximity of blood That empty title is with ease withstood. Dryden. 

PROXIMO:  In the next month after the present; -- often contracted to prox.; as, on the 3d proximo. 

PROXY:  The written appointment of a proctor in suits in the ecclesiastical courts. Burrill.  5. (Eccl.)  See Procuration. [Obs.] 

PROXY:  To act or vote by proxy; to do anything by the agency of another. [R.] 

PROXYSHIP:  The office or agency of a proxy. 

PRUCE:  Prussian leather. [Obs.] Dryden. 

PRUDE:  A woman of affected modesty, reserve, or coyness; one who is overscrupulous or sensitive; one who affects extraordinary prudence in conduct and speech. Less modest than the speech of prudes. Swift. 

PRUDENCE:  The quality or state of being prudent; wisdom in the way of caution and provision; discretion; carefulness; hence, also, economy; frugality. Prudence is principally in reference to actions to be done, and due means, order, seasons, and method of doing or not doing. Sir M. Hale. Prudence supposes the value of the end to be assumed, and refers only to the adaptation of the means. It is the relation of right means for given ends. Whewell.  Syn.  -- Wisdom; forecast; providence; considerateness; judiciousness; discretion; caution; circumspection; judgment. See Wisdom. 

PRUDENCY:  Prudence. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 

PRUDENTIAL:  That which relates to or demands the exercise of, discretion or prudence; -- usually in the pl. Many stanzas, in poetic measures, contain rules relating to common prudentials as well as to religion. I. Watts. 

PRUDENTIALIST:  One who is governed by, or acts from, prudential motives. [R.] Coleridge. 

PRUDENTIALITY:  The quality or state of being prudential. Sir T. Browne. 

PRUDENTIALLY:  In a prudential manner; prudently. South. 

PRUDENTLY:  In a prudent manner. 

PRUDERY:  The quality or state of being prudish; excessive or affected scrupulousness in speech or conduct; stiffness; coyness. Cowper. 

PRUDHOMME:  A trustworthy citizen; a skilled workman. See Citation under 3d Commune, 1. 

PRUDISH:  Like a prude; very formal, precise, or reserved; affectedly severe in virtue; as, a prudish woman; prudish manners. A formal lecture, spoke with prudish face. Garrick. 

PRUDISHLY:  In a prudish manner. 

PRUINATE:  Same as Pruinose. 

PRUINOSE:  Frosty; covered with fine scales, hairs, dust, bloom, or the like, so as to give the appearance of frost. 

PRUINOUS:  Frosty; pruinose. 

PRUNE:  To dress; to prink; -used humorously or in contempt. Dryden. 

PRUNE:  A plum; esp., a dried plum, used in cookery; as, French or Turkish prunes; California prunes. German prune (Bot.), a large dark purple plum, of oval shape, often one-sided. It is much used for preserving, either dried or in sirup. Prune tree. (Bot.) (a) A tree of the genus Prunus (P. domestica), which produces prunes. (b) The West Indian tree, Prunus occidentalis.  -- South African prune (Bot.), the edible fruit of a sapindaceous tree (Pappea Capensis). 

PRUNELLA:  A smooth woolen stuff, generally black, used for making shoes; a kind of lasting; -- formerly used also for clergymen's gowns. 

PRUNELLE:  A kind of small and very acid French plum; -- applied especially to the stoned and dried fruit. 

PRUNELLO:  A species of dried plum; prunelle. 

PRUNER:  Any one of several species of beetles whose larvæ gnaw the branches of trees so as to cause them to fall, especially the American oak pruner (Asemum moestum), whose larva eats the pith of oak branches, and when mature gnaws a circular furrow on the inside nearly to the bark. When the branches fall each contains a pupa. 

PRUNIFEROUS:  Bearing plums. 

PRUNING:  That which is cast off by bird in pruning her feathers; leavings. Beau. & Fl. Pruning hook, or Pruning knife, cutting instrument used in pruning trees, etc.  -- Pruning shears, shears for pruning trees, vines, etc. 

PRUNUS:  A genus of trees with perigynous rosaceous flowers, and a single two-ovuled carpel which usually becomes a drupe in ripening.  Note: Originally, this genus was limited to the plums, then, by Linnæus, was made to include the cherries and the apricot. Later botanists separated these into several genera, as Prunus, Cerasus, and Armeniaca, but now, by Bentham and Hooker, the plums, cherries, cherry laurels, peach, almond, and nectarine are all placed in Prunus.  PRURIENCE; PRURIENCY Pru"ri*ence, Pru"ri*en*cy, n.  The quality or state of being prurient. The pruriency of curious ears. Burke. There is a prurience in the speech of some. Cowper. 

PRURIENT:  Uneasy with desire; itching; especially, having a lascivious curiosity or propensity; lustful.  -- Pru"ri*ent*ly, adv. The eye of the vain and prurient is darting from object to object of illicit attraction. I. Taylor. 

PRURIGINOUS:  Tending to, or caused by, prurigo; affected by, or of the nature of, prurigo. 

PRURIGO:  A papular disease of the skin, of which intense itching is the chief symptom, the eruption scarcely differing from the healthy cuticle in color. 

PRURITUS:  Itching. 

PRUSSIAN:  Of or pertaining to Prussia.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Prussia. Prussian blue (Chem.), any one of several complex double cyanides of ferrous and ferric iron; specifically, a dark blue amorphous substance having a coppery luster, obtained by adding a solution of potassium ferrocyanide (yellow prussiate of potash) to a ferric salt. It is used in dyeing, in ink, etc. Called also Williamson's blue, insoluble Prussian blue, Berlin blue, etc.  -- Prussian carp (Zoöl.) See Gibel.  -- Prussian green. (Chem.) Same as Berlin green, under Berlin. 

PRUSSIATE:  A salt of prussic acid; a cyanide. Red prussiate of potash. See Potassium ferricyanide, under Ferricyanide. Yellow prussiate of potash. See Potassium ferrocyanide, under Ferrocyanide. 

PRUSSIC:  designating the acid now called hydrocyanic acid, but formerly called prussic acid, because Prussian blue is derived from it or its compounds. See Hydrocyanic. 

PRUTENIC:  Prussian; -- applied to certain astronomical tables published in the sixteenth century, founded on the principles of Copernicus, a Prussian. 

PRY:  A lever; also, leverage. [Local, U. S. & Eng.] Pry pole, the pole which forms the prop of a hoisting gin, and stands facing the windlass. 

PRY:  To raise or move, or attempt to raise or move, with a pry or lever; to prize. [Local, U. S. & Eng.] 

PRY:  To peep narrowly; to gaze; to inspect closely; to attempt to discover something by a scrutinizing curiosity; -- often implying reproach. " To pry upon the stars." Chaucer. Watch thou and wake when others be asleep, To pry into the secrets of the state. Shak. 

PRY:  Curious inspection; impertinent peeping. 

PRYAN:  See Prian. 

PRYING:  Inspecting closely or impertinently.  Syn.  -- Inquisitive; curious. See Inquisitive. 

PRYINGLY:  In a prying manner. 

PRYTANEUM:  A public building in certain Greek cities; especially, a public hall in Athens regarded as the home of the community, in which official hospitality was extended to distinguished citizens and strangers. 

PRYTANIS:  A member of one of the ten sections into which the Athenian senate of five hundred was divided, and to each of which belonged the presidency of the senate for about one tenth of the year. 

PRYTANY:  The period during which the presidency of the senate belonged to the prytanes of the section. 

PRYTHEE:  See Prithee. 

PSALM:  To extol in psalms; to sing; as, psalming his praises. Sylvester. 

PSALMIST:  A clerk, precentor, singer, or leader of music, in the church. 

PSALMISTRY:  The use of psalms in devotion; psalmody.  PSALMODIC; PSALMODICAL Psal*mod"ic, Psal*mod"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. psalmodique.]  Relating to psalmody. 

PSALMODIST:  One who sings sacred songs; a psalmist. 

PSALMODIZE:  To practice psalmody. " The psalmodizing art." J. G. Cooper. 

PSALMODY:  The act, practice, or art of singing psalms or sacred songs; also, psalms collectively, or a collection of psalms. 

PSALMOGRAPH:  A writer of psalms; a psalmographer.  PSALMOGRAPHER; PSALMOGRAPHIST Psal*mog"ra*pher, Psal*mog"ra*phist, n. Etym: [L. psalmographus, Gr.  A writer of psalms, or sacred songs and hymns. 

PSALMOGRAPHY:  The act or practice of writing psalms, or sacred songs. 

PSALTER:  A rosary, consisting of a hundred and fifty beads, corresponding to the number of the psalms. 

PSALTERIAL:  Of or pertaining to the psalterium. 

PSALTERY:  A stringed instrument of music used by the Hebrews, the form of which is not known. Praise the Lord with harp; sing unto him with the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. Ps. xxxiii. 2. 

PSAMMITE:  A species of micaceous sandstone.  -- Psam*mit"ic, a. 

PSAROLITE:  A silicified stem of tree fern, found in abundance in the Triassic sandstone. 

PSELLISM:  Indistinct pronunciation; stammering. 

PSEPHISM:  A proposition adopted by a majority of votes; especially, one adopted by vote of the Athenian people; a statute. J. P. Mahaffy. 

PSEUDAESTHESIA:  False or imaginary feeling or sense perception such as occurs in hypochondriasis, or such as is referred to an organ that has been removed, as an amputated foot. 

PSEUDEMBRYO:  Of or pertaining to pseudepigraphy. 

PSEUDEPIGRAPHOUS:  Inscribed with a false name. Cudworth. 

PSEUDEPIGRAPHY:  The ascription of false names of authors to works. 

PSEUDHAEMAL:  Pertaining to the vascular system of annelids. Pseudhæmal fluid, the circulatory fluid, or blood, of annelids, analogous to the blood of vertebrates. It is often red, but is sometimes green or colorless.  -- Pseudhæmal vessels, the blood vessels of annelids.  PSEUDO- Pseu"do-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form or prefix signifying false, counterfeit, pretended, spurious; as, pseudo-apostle, a false apostle; pseudo- clergy, false or spurious clergy; pseudo-episcopacy, pseudo-form, pseudo-martyr, pseudo-philosopher. Also used adjectively. 

PSEUDOBACTERIA:  Microscopic organic particles, molecular granules, powdered inorganic substances, etc., which in form, size, and grouping resemble bacteria.  Note: The globules which divide and develop in form of chains are organized beings; when this does not occur, we are dealing with pseudobacteria. Sternberg. 

PSEUDOBLEPSIS:  False or depraved sight; imaginary vision of objects. Forsyth. 

PSEUDOBRANCH:  Same as Pseudobranchia. 

PSEUDOBRANCHIA:  A rudimentary branchia, or gill.  -- Pseu`do*bran"chi*al, a.  PSEUDO-BULB Pseu"do-bulb`, n. Etym: [Pseudo- + bulb.] (Bot.)  An aërial corm, or thickened stem, as of some epiphytic orchidaceous plants. 

PSEUDOCARP:  That portion of an anthocarpous fruit which is not derived from the ovary, as the soft part of a strawberry or of a fig.  PSEUDO-CHINA Pseu`do-chi"na, n. Etym: [Pseudo- + china.] (Bot.)  The false china root, a plant of the genus Smilax (S. Pseudo- china), found in America. 

PSEUDOCOELE:  Same as Pseudocoelia. 

PSEUDOCOELIA:  The fifth ventricle in the mammalian brain. See Ventricle. B. G. Wilder.  PSEUDO-CONE Pseu"do-cone`, n. Etym: [Pseudo- + cone.] (Zoöl.)  One of the soft gelatinous cones found in the compound eyes of certain insects, taking the place of the crystalline cones of others.  PSEUDO-CUMENE Pseu`do-cu"mene, n. Etym: [Pseudo- + cumene.] (Chem.)  A hydrocarbon of the aromatic series, metameric with mesitylene and cumene, found in coal tar, and obtained as a colorless liquid.  PSEUDO-DIPTERAL Pseu`do-dip"ter*al, a. Etym: [Pseudo- + dipteral: cf. F. pseudodiptère.] (Arch.)  Falsely or imperfectly dipteral, as a temple with the inner range of columns surrounding the cella omitted, so that the space between the cella wall and the columns is very great, being equal to two intercolumns and one column.  -- n.  A pseudo-dipteral temple. 

PSEUDODOX:  Not true in opinion or doctrine; false.  -- n.  A false opinion or doctrine. "To maintain the atheistical pseudodox which judgeth evil good, and darkness light." T. Adams. 

PSEUDOFILARIA:  One of the two elongated vibratile young formed by fission of the embryo during the development of certain Gregarinæ.  PSEUDO-GALENA Pseu`do-ga*le"na, n. Etym: [Pseudo- + galena.] (Min.)  False galena, or blende. See Blende (a). 

PSEUDOGRAPH:  A false writing; a spurious document; a forgery. 

PSEUDOGRAPHY:  False writing; forgery. 

PSEUDOHALTER:  One of the rudimentary front wings of certain insects (Stylops). They resemble the halteres, or rudimentary hind wings, of Diptera.  PSEUDO-HEART Pseu"do-heart`, n. Etym: [Pseudo- + heart.] (Zoöl.)  Any contractile vessel of invertebrates which is not of the nature of a real heart, especially one of those pertaining to the excretory system.  PSEUDO-HYPERTHOPHIC Pseu`do-hy`per*thoph"ic, a. Etym: [Pseudo- + hypertrophic.] (Med.)  Falsely hypertrophic; as, pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, a variety of paralysis in which the muscles are apparently enlarged, but are really degenerated and replaced by fat. 

PSEUDOLOGIST:  One who utters falsehoods; a liar. 

PSEUDOLOGY:  Falsehood of speech. Arbuthnot.  PSEUDO-METALLIC Pseu`do-me*tal"lic, a. Etym: [Pseudo- + metallic.]  Falsely or imperfectly metallic; -- said of a kind of luster, as in minerals.  PSEUDO-MONOCOTYLEDONOUS Pseu`do-mon`o*cot`y*led"on*ous, a. Etym: [Pseudo- + monocotyledonous.] (Bot.)  Having two coalescent cotyledons, as the live oak and the horse-chestnut. 

PSEUDOMORPH:  A pseudomorphous crystal, as a crystal consisting of quartz, but having the cubic form of fluor spar, the fluor crystal having been changed to quartz by a process of substitution. 

PSEUDOMORPHISM:  The state of having, or the property of taking, a crystalline form unlike that which belongs to the species. 

PSEUDOMORPHOUS:  Not having the true form. Pseudomorphous crystal, one which has a form that does not result from its own powers of crystallization. 

PSEUDONAVICELLA:  Same as Pseudonavicula. 

PSEUDONAVICULA:  One of the minute spindle-shaped embryos of Gregarinæ and some other Protozoa. 

PSEUDONEUROPTERA:  division of insects (Zoöl.) reticulated wings, as in the Neuroptera, but having an active pupa state. It includes the dragon flies, May flies, white ants, etc. By some zoölogists they are classed with the Orthoptera; by others, with the Neuroptera. 

PSEUDONEUROPTEROUS:  Of or pertaining to the Pseudoneuroptera. 

PSEUDONYM:  A fictitious name assumed for the time, as by an author; a pen name. [Written also pseudonyme.] 

PSEUDONYMITY:  The using of fictitious names, as by authors. 

PSEUDONYMOUS:  Bearing a false or fictitious name; as, a pseudonymous work.  -- Pseu*don"y*mous*ly, adv.  -- Pseu*don"y*mous*ness, n.  PSEUDO-PERIPTERAL Pseu`do-pe*rip"ter*al, a. Etym: [Pseudo- + peripteral: cf. F. pseudopériptère.] (Arch.)  Falsely or imperfectly peripteral, as a temple having the columns at the sides attached to the walls, and an ambulatory only at the ends or only at one end.  -- n.  A pseudo-peripteral temple. Oxf. Gloss.  PSEUDO-PERIPTERAL Pseu`do-pe*rip"ter*al, a. [Pseudo- + peripteral: cf. F. pseudopériptère.] (Arch.)  Falsely or imperfectly peripteral, as a temple having the columns at the sides attached to the walls, and an ambulatory only at the ends or only at one end. -- n.  A pseudo-peripteral temple.  Oxf. Gloss. 

PSEUDOPOD:  Any protoplasmic filament or irregular process projecting from any unicellular organism, or from any animal or plant call.  2. (Zoöl.)  A rhizopod. 

PSEUDOPODIAL:  Of or pertaining to a pseudopod, or to pseudopodia. See Illust. of Heliozoa. 

PSEUDOPODIUM:  Same as Pseudopod. 

PSEUDOPUPA:  A stage intermediate between the larva and pupa of bees and certain other hymenopterous insects. 

PSEUDORHABDITE:  One of the peculiar rodlike corpuscles found in the integument of certain Turbellaria. They are filled with a soft granular substance.  PSEUDO-ROMANTIC Pseu`do-ro*man"tic, a. Etym: Pseudo- + romantic.]  Falsely romantic. The false taste, the pseudo-romantic rage. De Quincey. 

PSEUDOSCOPE:  An instrument which exhibits objects with their proper relief reversed; -- an effect opposite to that produced by the stereoscope. Wheatstone. 

PSEUDOSCOPIC:  Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a pseudoscope; having its parts appearing with the relief reversed; as, a pseudoscopic image. 

PSEUDOSCORPIONES:  An order of Arachnoidea having the palpi terminated by large claws, as in the scorpions, but destitute of a caudal sting; the false scorpions. Called also Pseudoscorpii, and Pseudoscorpionina. See Illust. of Book scorpion, under Book. 

PSEUDOSPHERE:  The surface of constant negative curvature generated by the revolution of a tractrix. This surface corresponds in non-Euclidian space to the sphere in ordinary space. An important property of the surface is that any figure drawn upon it can be displaced in any way without tearing it or altering in size any of its elements. 

PSEUDOSPORE:  A peculiar reproductive cell found in some fungi. 

PSEUDOSTELLA:  Any starlike meteor or phenomenon. [R.] 

PSEUDOSTOMA:  A group of cells resembling a stoma, but without any true aperture among them.  PSEUDO-SYMMETRIC Pseu`do-sym*met"ric, a. (Crystallog.)  Exhibiting pseudo-symmetry.  PSEUDO-SYMMETRY Pseu`do-sym"me*try, n. Etym: [Pseudo- + symmetry.] (Crystallog.)  A kind of symmetry characteristic of certain crystals which from twinning, or other causes, come to resemble forms of a system other than that to which they belong, as the apparently hexagonal prisms of aragonite. 

PSEUDOTETRAMERA:  A division of beetles having the fifth tarsal joint minute and obscure, so that there appear to be but four joints.  -- Pseu`do*te*tram"er*al, a. 

PSEUDOTINEA:  The bee moth, or wax moth (Galleria). 

PSEUDOTURBINAL:  See under Turbinal. 

PSEUDOVARY:  The organ in which pseudova are produced; -- called also pseudovarium. 

PSEUDOVUM:  An egglike germ produced by the agamic females of some insects and other animals, and by the larvæ of certain insects. It is capable of development without fertilization. See Illust. of Pædogenesis. 

PSHAW:  Pish! pooch! -- an exclamation used as an expression of contempt, disdain, dislike, etc. [Written also psha.] 

PSHAW:  To express disgust or contemptuous disapprobation, as by the exclamation " Pshaw!" The goodman used regularly to frown and pshaw wherever this topic was touched upon. Sir W. Scott. 

PSILANTHROPIC:  Pertaining to, or embodying, psilanthropy. "A psilanthropic explanation." Coleridge. 

PSILANTHROPISM:  Psilanthropy. 

PSILANTHROPIST:  One who believes that Christ was a mere man. Smart. 

PSILANTHROPY:  The doctrine of the merely human existence of Christ. 

PSILOLOGY:  Love of empty of empty talk or noise. Coleridge. 

PSILOMELANE:  A hydrous oxide of manganese, occurring in smooth, botryoidal forms, and massive, and having an iron-black or steel-gray color. 

PSILOPAEDES:  birds whose young at first have down on the pterylæ only; -- called also Gymnopædes. 

PSILOPAEDIC:  Having down upon the pterylæ only; -- said of the young of certain birds. 

PSILOSOPHER:  A superficial or narrow pretender to philosophy; a sham philosopher.  PSITTACEOUS; PSITTACID Psit*ta"ceous, Psit"ta*cid, a. Etym: [L. psittacus a parrot, Gr. psittacide.] (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the parrots, or the Psittaci.  -- n.  One of the Psittaci. 

PSITTACI:  The order of birds which comprises the parrots.  PSITTA-CO-FULVINE Psit`ta-co-ful"*vine, n. Etym: [Gr. fulvus yellow.]  A yellow pigment found in the feathers of certain parrots. 

PSOAS:  An internal muscle arising from the lumbar vertebræ and inserted into the femur. In man there are usually two on each side, and the larger one, or great psoas, forms a part of the iliopsoas. 

PSORA:  A cutaneous disease; especially, the itch. 

PSORIC:  Of or pertaining to psora. 

PSOROSPERM:  A minute parasite, usually the young of Gregarinæ, in the pseudonavicula stage. 

PSYCHAGOGIC:  Attractive; persuasive. J. Morley. 

PSYCHAGOGUE:  A necromancer. [R.] 

PSYCHAL:  Of or pertaining to the soul; psychical. Bayne. 

PSYCHANALYSIS:  A method or process of psychotherapeutic analysis based on the work of Dr. Sigmund Freud (1856- --) of Vienna. The method rests upon the theory that hysteria is characteristically due to repression of desires consciously rejected but subconsciously persistent; it consists in a close analysis of the patient's mental history, stress being laid upon the dream life, and of treatment by means of suggestion. -- Psy*chan`a*lyt"ic (#), a. -- Psy`cha*nal"y*sist (#), n. 

PSYCHE:  A lovely maiden, daughter of a king and mistress of Eros, or Cupid. She is regarded as the personification of the soul.  2. The soul; the vital principle; the mind.  3. Etym: [F. psyché.]  A cheval glass. 

PSYCHIAN:  Any small moth of the genus Psyche and allied genera (family Psychidæ). The larvæ are called basket worms. See Basket worm, under Basket.  PSYCHIATRIA; PSYCHIATRY Psy*chi`a*tri"a, Psy*chi"a*try, n. Etym: [NL. psychiatria, fr. Gr. (Med.)  The application of the healing art to mental diseases. Dunglison. 

PSYCHIATRIC:  Of or pertaining to psychiatria.  PSYCHIC; PSYCHICAL Psy"chic, Psy"chic*al, a. Etym: [L. psychicus, Gr. psychique.]  1. Of or pertaining to the human soul, or to the living principle in man.  Note: This term was formerly used to express the same idea as psychological. Recent metaphysicians, however, have employed it to mark the difference between psychh` the living principle in man, and pney^ma the rational or spiritual part of his nature. In this use, the word describes the human soul in its relation to sense, appetite, and the outer visible world, as distinguished from spiritual or rational faculties, which have to do with the supersensible world. Heyse.  2. Of or pertaining to the mind, or its functions and diseases; mental; -- contrasted with physical. Psychical blindness, Psychical deafness (Med.), forms of nervous disease in which, while the senses of sight and hearing remain unimpaired, the mind fails to appreciate the significance of the sounds heard or the images seen.  -- Psychical contagion, the transference of disease, especially of a functional nervous disease, by mere force of example.  -- Psychical medicine, that department of medicine which treats of mental diseases. 

PSYCHICS:  Psychology. 

PSYCHISM:  The doctrine of Quesne, that there is a fluid universally diffused, end equally animating all living beings, the difference in their actions being due to the difference of the individual organizations. Fleming.  PSYCHO- Psy"cho-.  A combining form from Gr. the soul, the mind, the understanding; as, psychology.  PSYCHOANALYSIS; PSYCHOANALYTIC Psy`cho*a*nal"y*sis, n. --Psy`cho*an`a*lyt"ic, a. etc.  = Psychanalysis, Psychanalytic. 

PSYCHOGENESIS:  Genesis through an internal force, as opposed to natural selection. 

PSYCHOGRAPHY:  Spirit writing.  PSYCHOLOGIC; PSYCHOLOGICAL Psy`cho*log"ic, Psy`cho*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. psychologique.]  Of or pertaining to psychology. See Note under Psychic.  -- Psy`cho*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

PSYCHOLOGIST:  One who is versed in, devoted to, psychology. 

PSYCHOLOGUE:  A psychologist. 

PSYCHOLOGY:  The science of the human soul; specifically, the systematic or scientific knowledge of the powers and functions of the human soul, so far as they are known by consciousness; a treatise on the human soul. Psychology, the science conversant about the phenomena of the mind, or conscious subject, or self. Sir W. Hamilton. 

PSYCHOMACHY:  A conflict of the soul with the body. 

PSYCHOMANCY:  Necromancy. 

PSYCHOMETRY:  The art of measuring the duration of mental processes, or of determining the time relations of mental phenomena.  -- Psy`cho*met"ric, a.  PSYCHO-MOTOR Psy`cho-mo"tor, a. Etym: [Psycho- + motor.]  Of or pertaining to movement produced by action of the mind or will. 

PSYCHOPANNYCHISM:  The doctrine that the soul falls asleep at death, and does not wake until the resurrection of the body.  -- Psy`cho*pan"ny*chism, n. 

PSYCHOPATHY:  Mental disease. See Psychosis, 2.  -- Psy`cho*path"ic, a.  -- Psy*chop"a*thist, n. 

PSYCHOPHYSICAL:  Of or pertaining to psychophysics; involving the action or mutual relations of the psychical and physical in man. Psychophysical time (Physiol.), the time required for the mind to transform a sensory impression into a motor impulse. It is an important part of physiological or reaction time. See under Reaction. 

PSYCHOPHYSICS:  The science of the connection between nerve action and consciousness; the science which treats of the relations of the psychical and physical in their conjoint operation in man; the doctrine of the relation of function or dependence between body and soul. 

PSYCHOPOMP:  A leader or guide of souls . J. Fiske. 

PSYCHOSIS:  A disease of the mind; especially, a functional mental disorder, that is, one unattended with evident organic changes. 

PSYCHOTHERAPEUTICS:  The treatment of disease by acting on the mind, as by suggestion; mind cure; psychotherapy. 

PSYCHOTHERAPY:  Psychotherapeutics. 

PSYCHOZOIC:  Designating, or applied to the Era of man; as, the psychozoic era. 

PSYCHROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the tension of the aqueous vapor in the atmosphere, being essentially a wet and dry bulb hygrometer. 

PSYCHROMETRICAL:  Of or pertaining to the psychrometer or psychrometry. 

PSYCHROMETRY:  Hygrometry. 

PSYLLA:  Any leaping plant louse of the genus Psylla, or family Psyllidæ. 

PTARMIGAN:  Any grouse of the genus Lagopus, of which numerous species are known. The feet are completely feathered. Most of the species are brown in summer, but turn white, or nearly white, in winter.  Note: They chiefly inhabit the northern countries and high mountains of Europe, Asia, and America. The common European species is Lagopus mutus. The Scotch grouse, red grouse, or moor fowl (L. Scoticus), is reddish brown, and does not turn white in winter. The white, or willow, ptarmigan (L. albus) is found in both Europe and America. 

PTENOGLOSSA:  A division of gastropod mollusks having the teeth of the radula arranged in long transverse rows, somewhat like the barbs of a feather. 

PTENOGLOSSATE:  Of or pertaining to the Ptenoglossa. 

PTERANODON:  A genus of American Cretaceous pterodactyls destitute of teeth. Several species are known, some of which had an expanse of wings of twenty feet or more. 

PTERANODONTIA:  A group of pterodactyls destitute of teeth, as in the genus Pteranodon. 

PTERICHTHYS:  A genus of Devonian fossil fishes with winglike appendages. The head and most of the body were covered with large bony plates. See Placodermi. 

PTERIDOLOGIST:  One who is versed in pteridology. 

PTERIDOLOGY:  That department of botany which treats of ferns. 

PTERIDOMANIA:  A madness, craze, or strong fancy, for ferns. [R.] C. Kingsley. 

PTERIDOPHYTA:  A class of flowerless plants, embracing ferns, horsetails, club mosses, quillworts, and other like plants. See the Note under Cryptogamia.  -- Pter"i*do*phyte`, n.  Note: This is a modern term, devised to replace the older ones acrogens and vascular Cryptogamia. 

PTEROBRANCHIA:  An order of marine Bryozoa, having a bilobed lophophore and an axial cord. The genus Rhabdopleura is the type. Called also Podostomata. See Rhabdopleura. 

PTEROCERAS:  A genus of large marine gastropods having the outer border of the lip divided into lobes; -- called also scorpion shell. 

PTEROCLETES:  A division of birds including the sand grouse. They are in some respects intermediate between the pigeons and true grouse. Called also Pteroclomorphæ. 

PTERODACTYL:  An extinct flying reptile; one of the Pterosauria. See Illustration in Appendix. 

PTERODACTYLI:  Same as Pterosauria. 

PTEROGLOSSAL:  Having the tongue finely notched along the sides, so as to have a featherlike appearance, as the toucans. 

PTERON:  The region of the skull, in the temporal fossa back of the orbit, where the great wing of the sphenoid, the temporal, the parietal, and the frontal hones approach each other. 

PTEROPAPPI:  Same as Odontotormæ. 

PTEROPHORE:  Any moth of the genus Pterophorus and allied genera; a plume moth. See Plume moth, under Plume. 

PTEROPOD:  One of the Pteropoda. 

PTEROPODA:  A class of Mollusca in which the anterior lobes of the foot are developed in the form of broad, thin, winglike organs, with which they swim at near the surface of the sea.  Note: The Pteropoda are divided into two orders: Cymnosomata, which have the body entirely naked and the head distinct from the wings; and Thecosomata, which have a delicate transparent shell of various forms, and the head not distinct from the wings. 

PTEROPODOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Pteropoda. 

PTEROSAUR:  A pterodactyl. 

PTEROSAURIA:  An extinct order of flying reptiles of the Mesozoic age; the pterodactyls; -- called also Pterodactyli, and Ornithosauria.  Note: The wings were formed, like those of bats, by a leathery expansion of the skin, principally supported by the greatly enlarged outer or " little" fingers of the hands. The American Cretaceous pterodactyls had no teeth. See Pteranodontia, and Pterodactyl. 

PTEROSAURIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Pterosauria. 

PTEROSTIGMA:  A thickened opaque spot on the wings of certain insects. 

PTEROTIC:  Of or pertaining to, or designating, a bone between the proötic and epiotic in the dorsal and outer part of the periotic capsule of many fishes.  -- n.  The pterotic bone.  Note: The pterotic bone is so called because fancied in some cases to resemble in form a bird's wing 

PTERYGIUM:  A superficial growth of vascular tissue radiating in a fanlike manner from the cornea over the surface of the eye. 

PTERYGOID:  A pterygoid bone. Pterygoid bone (Anat.), a bone which corresponds to the inner plate of the pterygoid process of the human skull, but which, in all vertebrates below mammals, is not connected with the posterior nares, but serves to connect the palatine bones with the point of suspension of the lower jaw.  -- Pterygoid process (Anat.), a process projecting downward from either side of the sphenoid bone, in man divided into two plates, an inner and an outer. The posterior nares pass through the space, called the pterygoid fossa, between the processes. 

PTERYGOMAXILLARY:  Of or pertaining to the inner pterygoid plate, or pterygoid bone, and the lower jaw. 

PTERYGOPALATINE:  Of or pertaining to the pterygoid processes and the palatine bones. 

PTERYGOPODIUM:  A specially modified part of the ventral fin in male elasmobranchs, which serves as a copulatory organ, or clasper. 

PTERYGOQUADRATE:  Of, pertaining to, or representing the pterygoid and quadrate bones or cartilages. 

PTERYLA:  One of the definite areas of the skin of a bird on which feathers grow; -- contrasted with apteria. 

PTERYLOGRAPHY:  The study or description of the arrangement of feathers, or of the pterylæ, of birds. 

PTERYLOSIS:  The arrangement of feathers in definite areas. 

PTILOCERQUE:  The pentail. 

PTILOPAEDES:  Same as Dasypædes. 

PTILOPAEDIC:  Having nearly the whole surface of the skin covered with down; dasypædic; -- said of the young of certain birds. 

PTILOPTERI:  An order of birds including only the penguins. 

PTILOSIS:  Same as Pterylosis. 

PTISAN:  An aqueous medicine, containing little, if any, medicinal agent; a tea or tisane. 

PTOLEMAIC:  Of or pertaining to Ptolemy, the geographer and astronomer. Ptolemaic system (Astron.), the system maintained by Ptolemy, who supposed the earth to be fixed in the center of the universe, with the sun and stars revolving around it. This theory was received for ages, until superseded by the Copernican system. 

PTOLEMAIST:  One who accepts the astronomical system of Ptolemy. 

PTOMAINE:  One of a class of animal bases or alkaloids formed in the putrefaction of various kinds of albuminous matter, and closely related to the vegetable alkaloids; a cadaveric poison. The ptomaines, as a class, have their origin in dead matter, by which they are to be distinguished from the leucomaines. 

PTOSIS:  Drooping of the upper eyelid, produced by paralysis of its levator muscle. 

PTYALIN:  An unorganized amylolytic ferment, on enzyme, present in human mixed saliva and in the saliva of some animals. 

PTYALISM:  Salivation, or an excessive flow of saliva. Quain. 

PTYALOGOGUE:  A ptysmagogue. 

PTYSMAGOGUE:  A medicine that promotes the discharge of saliva. 

PTYXIS:  The way in which a leaf is sometimes folded in the bud. 

PUBBLE:  Puffed out, pursy; pudgy; fat. [Obs.] Drant. 

PUBERAL:  Of or pertaining to puberty. 

PUBERTY:  The period when a plant first bears flowers. 

PUBERULENT:  Very minutely downy. 

PUBES:  The down of plants; a downy or villous substance which grows on plants; pubescence. 

PUBESCENCY:  Pubescence. 

PUBIC:  Of or pertaining to the pubes; in the region of the pubes; as, the pubic bone; the pubic region, or the lower part of the hypogastric region. See Pubes. (b) Of or pertaining to the pubis. 

PUBIS:  The ventral and anterior of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis; sharebone; pubic bone. 

PUBLICAN:  A farmer of the taxes and public revenues; hence, a collector of toll or tribute. The inferior officers of this class were often oppressive in their exactions, and were regarded with great detestation. As Jesus at meat . . . many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples. Matt. 1x. 10. How like a fawning publican he looks! Shak.  2. The keeper of an inn or public house; one licensed to retail beer, spirits, or wine. 

PUBLICATION:  Public-spirited. [R.] 

PUBLICIST:  A writer on the laws of nature and nations; one who is versed in the science of public right, the principles of government, etc. The Whig leaders, however, were much more desirous to get rid of Episcopacy than to prove themselves consummate publicists and logicians. Macaulay. 

PUBLICITY:  The quality or state of being public, or open to the knowledge of a community; notoriety; publicness.  PUBLICITY PAMPHLET Publicity pamphlet.  A pamphlet which, in some States of the United States having the initiative or referendum, is mailed to the voters to inform them as to the nature of a measure submitted by the initiative or referendum. The pamphlet contains a copy of the proposed law and arguments for and against it by those favoring and opposing it, respectively. 

PUBLICLY:  Public-spirited.  -- Pub"lic-mind`ed*ness, n. 

PUBLICNESS:  A corporation, such as a railroad company, lighting company, water company, etc., organized or chartered to follow a public calling or to render services more or less essential to the general public convenience or safety.  PUBLIC-SPIRITED Pub"lic-spir`it*ed, a.  1. Having, or exercising, a disposition to advance the interest of the community or public; as, public-spirited men.  2. Dictated by a regard to public good; as, a public-spirited project or measure. Addison.  -- Pub"lic-spir`it*ed*ly, adv.  -- Pub"lic-spir`it*ed*ness, n. 

PUBLISHABLE:  Capable of being published; suitable for publication. 

PUBLISHER:  One who publishes; as, a publisher of a book or magazine. For love of you, not hate unto my friend, Hath made me publisher of this pretense. Shak. 

PUCCOON:  Any one of several plants yielding a red pigment which is used by the North American Indians, as the bloodroot and two species of Lithospermum (L. hirtum, and L. canescens); also, the pigment itself. 

PUCE:  Of a dark brown or brownish purple color. 

PUCEL:  See Pucelle. [Obs.] 

PUCELAGE:  Virginity. [R.] 

PUCELLE:  A maid; a virgin. [Written also pucel.] [Obs.] Lady or pucelle, that wears mask or fan. B. Jonson. La Pucelle, the Maid of Orleans, Joan of Arc. 

PUCERON:  Any plant louse, or aphis. 

PUCHERITE:  Vanadate of bismuth, occurring in minute reddish brown crystals. 

PUCK:  A celebrated fairy, "the merry wanderer of the night;" -- called also Robin Goodfellow, Friar Rush, Pug, etc. Shak. He meeteth Puck, whom most men call Hobgoblin, and on him doth fall. Drayton.  2. (Zoöl.)  The goatsucker. [Prov. Eng.] 

PUCKA:  Good of its kind; -- variously used as implying substantial, real, fixed, sure, etc., and specif., of buildings, made of brick and mortar. [India]  It's pukka famine, by the looks of it. Kipling. 

PUCKBALL:  A puffball. 

PUCKER:  To gather into small folds or wrinkles; to contract into ridges and furrows; to corrugate; -- often with up; as, to pucker up the mouth. "His skin [was] puckered up in wrinkles." Spectator. 

PUCKERER:  One who, or that which, puckers. 

PUCKFIST:  A puffball. 

PUCKISH:  Resembling Puck; merry; mischievous. "Puckish freaks." J. R. Green. 

PUCRAS:  See Koklass. 

PUD:  Same as Pood. 

PUD:  The hand; the first. [Colloq.] Lamb. 

PUDDER:  To make a tumult or bustle; to splash; to make a pother or fuss; to potter; to meddle. Puddering in the designs or doings of others. Barrow. Others pudder into their food with their broad nebs. Holland. 

PUDDER:  To perplex; to embarrass; to confuse; to bother; as, to pudder a man. Locke. 

PUDDER:  A pother; a tumult; a confused noise; turmoil; bustle. "All in a pudder." Milton. 

PUDDING:  Same as Puddening. Pudding grass (Bot.), the true pennyroyal (Mentha Pulegium), formerly used to flavor stuffing for roast meat. Dr. Prior.  -- Pudding pie, a pudding with meat baked in it. Taylor (1630).  -- Pudding pipe (Bot.), the long, cylindrical pod of the leguminous tree Cassia Fistula. The seeds are separately imbedded in a sweetish pulp. See Cassia.  -- Pudding sleeve, a full sleeve like that of the English clerical gown. Swift.  -- Pudding stone. (Min.) See Conglomerate, n., 2.  -- Pudding time. (a) The time of dinner, pudding being formerly the dish first eaten. [Obs.] Johnson. (b) The nick of time; critical time. [Obs.] Mars, that still protects the stout, In pudding time came to his aid. Hudibras.  PUDDING FISH; PUDDING WIFE Pud"ding fish, Pudding wife. [Prob. corrupted fr. the Sp. name in Cuba, pudiano verde.] (Zoöl.)  A large, handsomely colored, blue and bronze, labroid fish (Iridio, syn. Platyglossus, radiatus) of Florida, Bermuda, and the West Indies. Called also pudiano, doncella, and, at Bermuda, bluefish.  PUDDING-HEADED Pud"ding-head`ed, a.  Stupid. [Colloq.] 

PUDDLE:  To make a dirty stir. [Obs.] R. Junius.  PUDDLE-BALL Pud"dle-ball`, n.  The lump of pasty wrought iron as taken from the puddling furnace to be hammered or rolled.  PUDDLE-BAR Pud"dle-bar", n.  An iron bar made at a single heat from a puddle-ball hammering and rolling. 

PUDDLER:  One who converts cast iron into wrought iron by the process of puddling. 

PUDDLING:  The art or process of converting cast iron into wrought iron or steel by subjecting it to intense heat and frequent stirring in a reverberatory furnace in the presence of oxidizing substances, by which it is freed from a portion of its carbon and other impurities. Puddling furnace, a reverberatory furnace in which cast iron is converted into wrought iron or into steel by puddling. 

PUDDLY:  Consisting of, or resembling, puddles; muddy; foul. "Thick puddly water." Carew. 

PUDDOCK:  A small inclosure. [Written also purrock.] [Prov. Eng.] 

PUDENCY:  Modesty; shamefacedness. "A pudency so rosy." Shak. 

PUDENDA:  The external organs of generation. 

PUDENDAL:  Of or pertaining to the pudenda, or pudendum. 

PUDENDUM:  The external organs of generation, especially of the female; the vulva. 

PUDGY:  Short and fat or sturdy; dumpy; podgy; as, a short, pudgy little man; a pudgy little hand. Thackeray. 

PUDIC:  Of or pertaining to the external organs of generation. 

PUDICAL:  Pudic. 

PUDICITY:  Modesty; chastity. Howell. 

PUDU:  A very small deer (Pudua humilis), native of the Chilian Andes. It has simple spikelike antlers, only two or three inches long. 

PUE:  To make a low whistling sound; to chirp, as birds. Halliwell. 

PUEBLO:  A communistic building erected by certain Indian tribes of Arizona and New Mexico. It is often of large size and several stories high, and is usually built either of stone or adobe. The term is also applied to any Indian village in the same region. Pueblo Indians (Ethnol.), any tribe or community of Indians living in pueblos. The principal Pueblo tribes are the Moqui, the Zuñi, the Keran, and the Tewan. 

PUEFELLOW:  A pewfellow. [Obs.] 

PUER:  The dung of dogs, used as an alkaline steep in tanning. Simmonds. 

PUERCO:  A hog. Puerco beds (Geol.), a name given to certain strata belonging to the earliest Eocene. They are developed in Northwestern New Mexico, along the Rio Puerco, and are characterized by their mammalian remains. 

PUERILE:  Boyish; childish; trifling; silly. The French have been notorious through generations for their puerile affectation of Roman forms, models, and historic precedents. De Quincey.  Syn.  -- Youthful; boyish; juvenile; childish; trifling; weak. See Youthful. 

PUERILELY:  In a puerile manner; childishly. 

PUERILENESS:  The quality of being puerile; puerility. 

PUERPERAL:  Of or pertaining to childbirth; as, a puerperal fever. 

PUERPEROUS:  Bearing children. [R.] 

PUET:  The pewit. 

PUFF:  Puffed up; vain. [R.] Fanshawe. 

PUFFBALL:  A kind of ball-shaped fungus (Lycoperdon giganteum, and other species of the same genus) full of dustlike spores when ripe; -- called also bullfist, bullfice, puckfist, puff, and puffin. 

PUFFER:  A kier. 

PUFFERY:  The act of puffing; bestowment of extravagant commendation. 

PUFFIN:  An arctic sea bird Fratercula arctica) allied to the auks, and having a short, thick, swollen beak, whence the name; -- called also bottle nose, cockandy, coulterneb, marrot, mormon, pope, and sea parrot.  Note: The name is also applied to other related species, as the horned puffin (F. corniculata), the tufted puffin (Lunda cirrhata), and the razorbill. Manx puffin, the Manx shearwater. See under Manx.  2. (Bot.)  The puffball.  3. A sort of apple. [Obs.] Rider's Dict. (1640). 

PUFFINESS:  The quality or state of being puffy. 

PUFFING:  a. & n. from Puff, v. i. & t. Puffing adder. (Zoöl.) Same as Puff adder (b), under Puff.  -- Puffing pig (Zoöl.), the common porpoise. 

PUFFINGLY:  In a puffing manner; with vehement breathing or shortness of breath; with exaggerated praise.  PUFF-LEG Puff"-leg`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of beautiful humming birds of the genus Eriocnemis having large tufts of downy feathers on the legs.  PUFF-LEGGED Puff"-legged`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having a conspicuous tuft of feathers on the legs. 

PUG:  Chaff; the refuse of grain. [Obs.] Holland.  6. A prostitute. [Obs.] Cotgrave.  7. (Zoöl.)  One of a small breed of pet dogs having a short nose and head; a pug dog.  8. (Zoöl.)  Any geometrid moth of the genus Eupithecia.  PUG-FACED Pug"-faced`, a.  Having a face like a monkey or a pug; monkey-faced. 

PUGGAREE:  Same as Puggry. 

PUGGER:  To pucker. [Obs.] 

PUGGERED:  Puckered. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

PUGGING:  Mortar or the like, laid between the joists under the boards of a floor, or within a partition, to deaden sound; -- in the United States usually called deafening. 

PUGGING:  Thieving. [Obs.] Shak.  PUGGRY; PUGGREE Pug"gry, Pug"gree, n. [Written also puggaree, puggeree, etc.] [Hind. pagrsi turban.]  A light scarf wound around a hat or helmet to protect the head from the sun. [India] Yule.  A blue-gray felt hat with a gold puggaree. Kipling. 

PUGH:  Pshaw! pish! -- a word used in contempt or disdain. 

PUGIL:  As much as is taken up between the thumb and two first fingers. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PUGILISM:  The practice of boxing, or fighting with the fist. 

PUGILIST:  One who fights with his fists; esp., a professional prize fighter; a boxer. 

PUGILISTIC:  Of or pertaining to pugillism. 

PUGNACIOUS:  Disposed to fight; inclined to fighting; quarrelsome; fighting. --Pug*na"cious*ly, adv.  -- Pug*na"cious*ness, n. 

PUGNACITY:  Inclination or readiness to fight; quarrelsomeness. " A national pugnacity of character." Motley.  PUG NOSE Pug" nose`.  A short, thick nose; a snubnose.  -- Pug"-nosed`, a. Pug-nose eel (Zoöl.), a deep-water marine eel (Simenchelys parasiticus) which sometimes burrows into the flesh of the halibut. 

PUH:  The same as Pugh. 

PUISNE:  Younger or inferior in rank; junior; associate; as, a chief justice and three puisne justices of the Court of Common Pleas; the puisne barons of the Court of Exchequer. Blackstone. 

PUISNE:  One who is younger, or of inferior rank; a junior; esp., a judge of inferior rank. It were not a work for puisnes and novices. Bp. Hall. 

PUISNY:  Puisne; younger; inferior; petty; unskilled. [R.] A puisny tilter, that spurs his horse but on one side. Shak. 

PUISSANCE:  Power; strength; might; force; potency. " Youths of puissance." Tennyson. The power and puissance of the king. Shak.  Note: In Spenser, Shakespeare, and Milton, puissance and puissant are usually dissyllables. 

PUISSANT:  Powerful; strong; mighty; forcible; as, a puissant prince or empire. " Puissant deeds." Milton. Of puissant nations which the world possessed. Spenser. And worldlings in it are less merciful, And more puissant. Mrs. Browning. 

PUISSANTLY:  In a puissant manner; powerfully; with great strength. 

PUISSANTNESS:  The state or quality of being puissant; puissance; power. 

PUIT:  A well; a small stream; a fountain; a spring. [Obs.] The puits flowing from the fountain of life. Jer. Taylor. 

PUKE:  To eject the contests of the stomach; to vomit; to spew. The infant Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms. Shak. 

PUKE:  To eject from the stomach; to vomit up. 

PUKE:  A medicine that causes vomiting; an emetic; a vomit. 

PUKE:  Of a color supposed to be between black and russet. Shak.  Note: This color has by some been regarded as the same with puce; but Nares questions the identity. 

PUKKA:  Same as Pucka. [India] 

PULAS:  The East Indian leguminous tree Butea frondosa. See Gum Butea, under Gum. [Written also pales and palasa.] 

PULER:  One who pules; one who whines or complains; a weak person. 

PULEX:  A genus of parasitic insects including the fleas. See Flea. 

PULICENE:  Pertaining to, or abounding in, fleas; pulicose.  PULICOSE; PULICOUS Pu"li*cose`, Pu"li*cous, a. Etym: [L. pulicosus, from pulex, a flea.]  Abounding with fleas. 

PULING:  A cry, as of a chicken,; a whining or whimpering. Leave this faint puling and lament as I do. Shak. 

PULING:  Whimpering; whining; childish. 

PULINGLY:  With whining or complaint. 

PULKHA:  A Laplander's traveling sledge. See Sledge. 

PULL:  To hold back, and so prevent from winning; as, the favorite was pulled.  6. (Print.)  To take or make, as a proof or impression; -- hand presses being worked by pulling a lever.  7. (Cricket)  To strike the ball in a particular manner. See Pull, n., 8. Never pull a straight fast ball to leg. R. H. Lyttelton. To pull and haul, to draw hither and thither. " Both are equally pulled and hauled to do that which they are unable to do. " South.  -- To pull down, to demolish; to destroy; to degrade; as, to pull down a house. " In political affairs, as well as mechanical, it is easier to pull down than build up." Howell. " To raise the wretched, and pull down the proud." Roscommon. To pull a finch. See under Finch. To pull off, take or draw off. 

PULL:  To exert one's self in an act or motion of drawing or hauling; to tug; as, to pull at a rope. To pull apart, to become separated by pulling; as, a rope will pull apart.  -- To pull up, to draw the reins; to stop; to halt. To pull through, to come successfully to the end of a difficult undertaking, a dangerous sickness, or the like. 

PULL:  A kind of stroke by which a leg ball is sent to the off side, or an off ball to the side. The pull is not a legitimate stroke, but bad cricket. R. A. Proctor. 

PULLAIL:  Poultry. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

PULLBACK:  The iron hook fixed to a casement to pull it shut, or to hold it party open at a fixed point. 

PULLDEVIL:  A number of fishhooks rigidly fastened back to be pulled through the water to catch fish. 

PULLED:  Plucked; pilled; moulting. " A pulled hen." Chaucer. 

PULLEN:  Poultry. [Obs.] 

PULLER:  One who, or that which, pulls. Proud setter up and puller down of kings. Shak. 

PULLET:  A young hen, or female of the domestic fowl. Pullet sperm, the treadle of an egg. [Obs.] Shak. 

PULLEY:  A wheel with a broad rim, or grooved rim, for transmitting power from, or imparting power to, the different parts of machinery, or for changing the direction of motion, by means of a belt, cord, rope, or chain.  Note: The pulley, as one of the mechanical powers, consists, in its simplest form, of a grooved wheel, called a sheave, turning within a movable frame or block, by means of a cord or rope attached at one end to a fixed point. The force, acting on the free end of the rope, is thus doubled, but can move the load through only half the space traversed by itself. The rope may also pass over a sheave in another block that is fixed. The end of the rope may be fastened to the movable block, instead of a fixed point, with an additional gain of power, and using either one or two sheaves in the fixed block. Other sheaves may be added, and the power multiplied accordingly. Such an apparatus is called by workmen a block and tackle, or a fall and tackle. See Block. A single fixed pulley gives no increase of power, but serves simply for changing the direction of motion. Band pulley, or Belt pulley, a pulley with a broad face for transmitting power between revolving shafts by means of a belt, or for guiding a belt.  -- Cone pulley. See Cone pulley.  -- Conical pulley, one of a pair of belt pulleys, each in the shape of a truncated cone, for varying velocities.  -- Fast pulley, a pulley firmly attached upon a shaft.  -- Loose pulley, a pulley loose on a shaft, to interrupt the transmission of motion in machinery. See Fast and loose pulleys, under Fast. Parting pulley, a belt pulley made in semicircular halves, which can be bolted together, to facilitate application to, or removal from, a shaft.  -- Pulley block. Same as Block, n. 6.  -- Pulley stile (Arch.), the upright of the window frame into which a pulley is fixed and along which the sash slides. Split pulley, a parting pulley. 

PULLEY:  To raise or lift by means of a pulley. [R.] Howell. 

PULLICATE:  A kind of checked cotton or silk handkerchief.  PULLMAN CAR Pull"man car`. Etym: [Named after Mr. Pullman, who introduced them.]  A kind of sleeping car; also, a palace car; -- often shortened to Pullman. 

PULLULATE:  To germinate; to bud; to multiply abundantly. Warburton. 

PULLULATION:  A germinating, or budding. Dr. H. More. 

PULLUS:  A chick; a young bird in the downy stage.  PULMOBRANCHIATA; PULMOBRANCHIATE Pul`mo*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.], Pul`mo*bran"chi*ate. (, a. & n. (Zoöl.)  Same as Pulmonibranchiata, -ate. 

PULMOCUTANEOUS:  Of or pertaining to the lungs and the akin; as, the pulmocutaneous arteries of the frog. 

PULMOGASTEROPODA:  Same as Pulmonata. 

PULMOGRADE:  Swimming by the expansion and contraction, or lunglike movement, of the body, or of the disk, as do the medusæ. 

PULMOMETER:  A spirometer. 

PULMOMETRY:  The determination of the capacity of the lungs. 

PULMONARIAN:  Any arachnid that breathes by lunglike organs, as the spiders and scorpions. Also used adjectively. 

PULMONARY:  Of or pertaining to the lungs; affecting the lungs; pulmonic. Pulmonary artery. See the Note under Artery. 

PULMONARY:  Lungwort. Ainsworth. 

PULMONATA:  An extensive division, or sub-class, of hermaphrodite gastropods, in which the mantle cavity is modified into an air- breathing organ, as in Helix, or land snails, Limax, or garden slugs, and many pond snails, as Limnæa and Planorbis. 

PULMONATE:  One of the Pulmonata. 

PULMONATED:  same as Pulmonate (a). 

PULMONIBRANCHIATA:  Same as Pulmonata. 

PULMONIBRANCHIATE:  Same as Pulmonate. 

PULMONIC:  Relating to, or affecting the lungs; pulmonary.  -- n.  A pulmonic medicine. 

PULMONIFERA:  Same as Pulmonata. 

PULMONIFEROUS:  Having lungs; pulmonate. 

PULMOTOR:  An apparatus for producing artificial respiration by pumping oxygen or air or a mixture of the two into and out of the lungs, as of a person who has been asphyxiated by drowning, breathing poisonous gases, or the like, or of one who has been stunned by an electrical shock. 

PULP:  A moist, slightly cohering mass, consisting of soft, undissolved animal or vegetable matter. Specifically: (a) (Anat.) A tissue or part resembling pulp; especially, the soft, highly vascular and sensitive tissue which fills the central cavity, called the pulp cavity, of teeth. (b) (Bot.) The soft, succulent part of fruit; as, the pulp of a grape. (c) The exterior part of a coffee berry. B. Edwards. (d) The material of which paper is made when ground up and suspended in water. 

PULPATOON:  A kind of delicate confectionery or cake, perhaps made from the pulp of fruit. [Obs.] Nares. 

PULPINESS:  the quality or state of being pulpy. 

PULPIT:  Of or pertaining to the pulpit, or preaching; as, a pulpit orator; pulpit eloquence. 

PULPITED:  Placed in a pulpit. [R.] Sit . . . at the feet of a pulpited divine. Milton. 

PULPITEER:  One who speaks in a pulpit; a preacher; -- so called in contempt. Howell. We never can think it sinful that Burns should have been humorous on such a pulpiteer. Prof. Wilson. 

PULPITER:  A preacher. [Obs.] 

PULPITICAL:  Of or pertaining to the pulpit; suited to the pulpit. [R.] -- Pul*pit"ic*al*ly, adv. [R.] Chesterfield. 

PULPITISH:  Of or pertaining to the pulpit; like preaching. Chalmers. 

PULPITRY:  The teaching of the pulpit; preaching. [R. & Obs.] " Mere pulpitry." Milton. 

PULPOUS:  Containing pulp; pulpy. " Pulpous fruit." J. Philips.  -- Pulp"ous*ness, n. 

PULPY:  Like pulp; consisting of pulp; soft; fleshy; succulent; as, the pulpy covering of a nut; the pulpy substance of a peach or a cherry. 

PULQUE:  An intoxicating Mexican drink. See Agave. 

PULSATE:  To throb, as a pulse; to beat, as the heart. The heart of a viper or frog will continue to pulsate long after it is taken from the body. E. Darwin. 

PULSATILLA:  A genus of ranunculaceous herbs including the pasque flower. This genus is now merged in Anemone. Some species, as Anemone Pulsatilla, Anemone pratensis, and Anemone patens, are used medicinally. 

PULSATION:  A beating or throbbing, especially of the heart or of an artery, or in an inflamed part; a beat of the pulse.  2. A single beat or throb of a series.  3. A stroke or impulse by which some medium is affected, as in the propagation of sounds.  4. (Law)  Any touching of another's body willfully or in anger. This constitutes battery. By the Cornelian law, pulsation as well as verberation is prohibited. Blackstone. 

PULSATIVE:  Beating; throbbing. 

PULSATOR:  That which beats or throbs in working. 

PULSATORY:  Capable of pulsating; throbbing. Sir H. Wotton. . 

PULSE:  Leguminous plants, or their seeds, as beans, pease, etc. If all the world Should, in a pet of temperance, feed on pulse. Milton. 

PULSE:  The beating or throbbing of the heart or blood vessels, especially of the arteries.  Note: In an artery the pulse is due to the expansion and contraction of the elastic walls of the artery by the action of the heart upon the column of blood in the arterial system. On the commencement of the diastole of the ventricle, the semilunar valves are closed, and the aorta recoils by its elasticity so as to force part of its contents into the vessels farther onwards. These, in turn, as they already contain a certain quantity of blood, expand, recover by an elastic recoil, and transmit the movement with diminished intensity. Thus a series of movements, gradually diminishing in intensity, pass along the arterial system (see the Note under Heart). For the sake of convenience, the radial artery at the wrist is generally chosen to detect the precise character of the pulse. The pulse rate varies with age, position, sex, stature, physical and psychical influences, etc.  2. Any measured or regular beat; any short, quick motion, regularly repeated, as of a medium in the transmission of light, sound, etc.; oscillation; vibration; pulsation; impulse; beat; movement. The measured pulse of racing oars. Tennyson. When the ear receives any simple sound, it is struck by a single pulse of the air, which makes the eardrum and the other membranous parts vibrate according to the nature and species of the stroke. Burke. Pulse glass, an instrument consisting to a glass tube with terminal bulbs, and containing ether or alcohol, which the heat of the hand causes to boil; -- so called from the pulsating motion of the liquid when thus warmed. Pulse wave (Physiol.), the wave of increased pressure started by the ventricular systole, radiating from the semilunar valves over the arterial system, and gradually disappearing in the smaller branches. the pulse wave travels over the arterial system at the rate of about 29.5 feet in a second. H. N. Martin. -- To feel one's pulse. (a) To ascertain, by the sense of feeling, the condition of the arterial pulse. (b) Hence, to sound one's opinion; to try to discover one's mind. 

PULSE:  To beat, as the arteries; to move in pulses or beats; to pulsate; to throb. Ray. 

PULSE:  To drive by a pulsation; to cause to pulsate. [R.] 

PULSELESS:  Having no pulsation; lifeless. 

PULSELESSNESS:  The state of being pulseless. 

PULSIFIC:  Exciting the pulse; causing pulsation. 

PULSIMETER:  A sphygmograph. 

PULSION:  The act of driving forward; propulsion; -- opposed to Ant: suction or Ant: traction. [R.] 

PULSIVE:  Tending to compel; compulsory. [R.] "The pulsive strain of conscience." Marston. 

PULT:  To put. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

PULTACEOUS:  Macerated; softened; nearly fluid.  PULTESSE; PULTISE Pul"tesse, Pul"tise, n.  Poultry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PULU:  A vegetable substance consisting of soft, elastic, yellowish brown chaff, gathered in the Hawaiian Islands from the young fronds of free ferns of the genus Cibotium, chiefly C. Menziesii; -- used for stuffing mattresses, cushions, etc., and as an absorbent. 

PULVERABLE:  Capable of being reduced to fine powder. Boyle. 

PULVERACEOUS:  Having a finely powdered surface; pulverulent. 

PULVERATE:  To beat or reduce to powder or dust; to pulverize. [R.] 

PULVERINE:  Ashes of barilla. Ure. 

PULVERIZABLE:  Admitting of being pulverized; pulverable. Barton. 

PULVERIZATION:  The action of reducing to dust or powder. 

PULVERIZE:  To reduce of fine powder or dust, as by beating, grinding, or the like; as, friable substances may be pulverized by grinding or beating, but to pulverize malleable bodies other methods must be pursued. 

PULVERIZE:  To become reduced to powder; to fall to dust; as, the stone pulverizes easily. 

PULVERIZER:  One who, or that which, pulverizes. 

PULVEROUS:  Consisting of dust or powder; like powder. 

PULVERULENCE:  The state of being pulverulent; abundance of dust or powder; dustiness. 

PULVERULENT:  Consisting of, or reducible to, fine powder; covered with dust or powder; powdery; dusty. 

PULVIL:  A sweet-scented powder; pulvillio. [Written also pulville.] [Obs.] Gay. 

PULVIL:  To apply pulvil to. [Obs.] Congreve.  PULVILLIO; PULVILLO Pul*vil"li*o, Pul*vil"lo, n. Etym: [See Pulvil.]  A kind of perfume in the form of a powder, formerly much used, -- often in little bags. Smells of incense, ambergris, and pulvillios. Addison. 

PULVILLUS:  One of the minute cushions on the feet of certain insects. 

PULVINAR:  A prominence on the posterior part of the thalamus of the human brain.  PULVINATE; PULVINATED Pul"vi*nate, Pul"vi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. pulvinatus, fr. pulvinus a cushion, an elevation.]  1. (Arch.)  Curved convexly or swelled; as, a pulvinated frieze. Brande & C.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having the form of a cushion. 

PULVINIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the decomposition of vulpinic acid, as a white crystalline substance. 

PULVINULUS:  Same as Pulvillus. 

PUMA:  A large American carnivore (Felis concolor), found from Canada to Patagonia, especially among the mountains. Its color is tawny, or brownish yellow, without spots or stripes. Called also catamount, cougar, American lion, mountain lion, and panther or painter. 

PUME:  A stint. 

PUMICATE:  To make smooth with pumice. [R.] 

PUMICE:  A very light porous volcanic scoria, usually of a gray color, the pores of which are capillary and parallel, giving it a fibrous structure. It is supposed to be produced by the disengagement of watery vapor without liquid or plastic lava. It is much used, esp. in the form of powder, for smoothing and polishing. Called also pumice stone. 

PUMICED:  Affected with a kind of chronic laminitis in which there is a growth of soft spongy horn between the coffin bone and the hoof wall. The disease is called pumiced foot, or pumice foot. 

PUMICEOUS:  Of or pertaining to pumice; resembling pumice.  PUMICE STONE Pum"ice stone`.  Same as Pumice. 

PUMICIFORM:  Resembling, or having the structure of, pumice. 

PUMMACE:  Same as Pomace. 

PUMMEL:  Same as Pommel. 

PUMP:  A low shoe with a thin sole. Swift. 

PUMP:  An hydraulic machine, variously constructed, for raising or transferring fluids, consisting essentially of a moving piece or piston working in a hollow cylinder or other cavity, with valves properly placed for admitting or retaining the fluid as it is drawn or driven through them by the action of the piston.  Note: for various kinds of pumps, see Air pump, Chain pump, and Force pump; also, under Lifting, Plunger, Rotary, etc. Circulating pump (Steam Engine), a pump for driving the condensing water through the casing, or tubes, of a surface condenser.  -- Pump brake. See Pump handle, below.  -- Pump dale. See Dale.  -- Pump gear, the apparatus belonging to a pump. Totten.  -- Pump handle, the lever, worked by hand, by which motion is given to the bucket of a pump.  -- Pump hood, a semicylindrical appendage covering the upper wheel of a chain pump.  -- Pump rod, the rod to which the bucket of a pump is fastened, and which is attached to the brake or handle; the piston rod.  -- Pump room, a place or room at a mineral spring where the waters are drawn and drunk. [Eng.] -- Pump spear. Same as Pump rod, above.  -- Pump stock, the stationary part, body, or barrel of a pump.  -- Pump well. (Naut.) See Well. 

PUMP:  To work, or raise water, a pump. 

PUMPAGE:  That which is raised by pumps, or the work done by pumps. The pumpage last year amounted to . . . gallons. Sci. Amer. 

PUMPER:  One who pumps; the instrument or machine used in pumping. Boyle. 

PUMPERNICKEL:  A sort of bread, made of unbolted rye, which forms the chief food of the Westphalian peasants. It is acid but nourishing. 

PUMPET:  A pompet. Pumpet ball (Print.), a ball for inking types; a pompet. 

PUMPING:  a. & n. from pump. Pumping engine, a steam engine and pump combined for raising water. See Steam engine. 

PUMPION:  See Pumpkin. 

PUMPKIN:  A well-known trailing plant (Cucurbita pepo) and its fruit, -- used for cooking and for feeding stock; a pompion. Pumpkin seed. (a) The flattish oval seed of the pumpkin. (b) (Zoöl.) The common pondfish. 

PUMY:  Large and rounded. [Obs.] A gentle stream, whose murmuring wave did play Amongst the pumy stones. Spenser. 

PUN:  To pound. [Obs.] He would pun thee into shivers with his fist. Shak. 

PUN:  A play on words which have the same sound but different meanings; an expression in which two different applications of a word present an odd or ludicrous idea; a kind of quibble or equivocation. Addison. A better put on this word was made on the Beggar's Opera, which, it was said, made Gay rich, and Rich gay. Walpole. 

PUN:  To make puns, or a pun; to use a word in a double sense, especially when the contrast of ideas is ludicrous; to play upon words; to quibble. Dryden. 

PUN:  To persuade or affect by a pun. Addison. 

PUNA:  A cold arid table-land, as in the Andes of Peru. 

PUNCH:  A beverage composed of wine or distilled liquor, water (or milk), sugar, and the juice of lemon, with spice or mint; -- specifically named from the kind of spirit used; as rum punch, claret punch, champagne punch, etc. Milk punch, a sort of punch made with spirit, milk, sugar, spice, etc.  -- Punch bowl, a large bowl in which punch is made, or from which it is served.  -- Roman punch, a punch frozen and served as an ice. 

PUNCH:  The buffoon or harlequin of a puppet show. Punch and Judy, a puppet show in which a comical little hunchbacked Punch, with a large nose, engages in altercation with his wife Judy. 

PUNCH:  To thrust against; to poke; as, to punch one with the end of a stick or the elbow. 

PUNCH:  A thrust or blow. [Colloq.] 

PUNCH:  An extension piece applied to the top of a pile; a dolly.  3. A prop, as for the roof of a mine. Bell punch. See under Bell.  -- Belt punch (Mach.), a punch, or punch pliers, for making holes for lacings in the ends of driving belts.  -- Punch press. See Punching machine, under Punch, v. i.  -- Punch pliers, pliers having a tubular, sharp-edged steel punch attached to one of the jaws, for perforating leather, paper, and the like. 

PUNCH:  To perforate or stamp with an instrument by pressure, or a blow; as, to punch a hole; to punch ticket. Punching machine, or Punching press, a machine tool for punching holes in metal or other material; -- called also punch press. 

PUNCHEON:  A short, upright piece of timber in framing; a short post; an intermediate stud. Oxf. Gloss.  3. A split log or heavy slab with the face smoothed; as, a floor made of puncheons. [U.S.] Bartlett.  4. Etym: [F. poinçon, perh. the same as poinçon an awl.]  A cask containing, sometimes 84, sometimes 120, gallons. 

PUNCHER:  One who, or that which, punches. 

PUNCHIN:  See Puncheon. 

PUNCHINELLO:  A punch; a buffoon; originally, in a puppet show, a character represented as fat, short, and humpbacked. Spectator. 

PUNCHY:  Short and thick, or fat.  PUNCTATED; PUNCTATED Punc"ta*ted, Punc"ta*ted, a. Etym: [From L. punctum point. See Point .]  1. Pointed; ending in a point or points.  2. (Nat. Hist.)  Dotted with small spots of color, or with minute depressions or pits. 

PUNCTATOR:  One who marks with points. specifically, one who writes Hebrew with points; -- applied to a Masorite. E. Robinson. 

PUNCTICULAR:  Comprised in, or like, a point; exact. [Obs. & R.] Sir T. Browne. 

PUNCTIFORM:  Having the form of a point. 

PUNCTILIO:  A nice point of exactness in conduct, ceremony, or proceeding; particularity or exactness in forms; as, the punctilios of a public ceremony. They will not part with the least punctilio in their opinions and practices. Fuller . 

PUNCTILIOUS:  Attentive to punctilio; very nice or exact in the forms of behavior, etiquette, or mutual intercourse; precise; exact in the smallest particulars. "A punctilious observance of divine laws." Rogers. "Very punctilious copies of any letters. The Nation. Punctilious in the simple and intelligible instances of common life. I. Taylor. -- Punc*til"ious*ly, adv.  -- Punc*til"ious*ness, n. 

PUNCTION:  A puncturing, or pricking; a puncture. 

PUNCTIST:  A punctator. E. Henderson. 

PUNCTUALIST:  One who is very exact in observing forms and ceremonies. Milton. 

PUNCTUALITY:  The quality or state of being punctual; especially, adherence to the exact time of an engagement; exactness. 

PUNCTUALLY:  In a punctual manner; promptly; exactly. 

PUNCTUALNESS:  Punctuality; exactness. 

PUNCTUATE:  To mark with points; to separate into sentences, clauses, etc., by points or stops which mark the proper pauses in expressing the meaning. 

PUNCTUATION:  The act or art of punctuating or pointing a writing or discourse; the art or mode of dividing literary composition into sentences, and members of a sentence, by means of points, so as to elucidate the author's meaning.  Note: Punctuation, as the term is usually understood, is chiefly performed with four points: the period [.], the colon [:], the semicolon [;], and the comma [,]. Other points used in writing and printing, partly rhetorical and partly grammatical, are the note of interrogation [], the note of exclamation [!], the parentheses [()], the dash [--], and brackets []. It was not until the 16th century that an approach was made to the present system of punctuation by the Manutii of Venice. With Caxton, oblique strokes took the place of commas and periods. 

PUNCTUATIVE:  Of or belonging to points of division; relating to punctuation. The punctuative intonation of feeble cadence. Rush. 

PUNCTUATOR:  One who punctuates, as in writing; specifically, a punctator. 

PUNCTUIST:  A punctator.  PUNCTULATE; PUNCTULATED Punc"tu*late, Punc"tu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. punctulum, dim. of punctum point.]  Marked with small spots. The studs have their surface punctulated, as if set all over with other studs infinitely lesser. Woodward. 

PUNCTUM:  A point. Punctum cæcum. Etym: [L., blind point.] (Anat.) Same as Blind spot, under Blind.  -- Punctum proximum, near point. See under Point.  -- Punctum remotum, far point. See under Point.  -- Punctum vegetationis Etym: [L., point of vegetation] (Bot.), the terminal cell of a stem, or of a leaf bud, from which new growth originates. 

PUNCTURATION:  The act or process of puncturing. See Acupuncture. 

PUNCTURE:  To pierce with a small, pointed instrument, or the like; to prick; to make a puncture in; as, to puncture the skin. 

PUNCTURED:  Produced by puncture; having the characteristics of a puncture; as, a punctured wound. 

PUNDIT:  A learned man; a teacher; esp., a Brahman versed in the Sanskrit language, and in the science, laws, and religion of the Hindoos; in Cashmere, any clerk or native official. [Written also pandit.] [India] 

PUNDLE:  A short and fat woman; a squab. [Obs.] 

PUNESE:  A bedbug. [R or Obs.] 

PUNG:  A kind of plain sleigh drawn by one horse; originally, a rude oblong box on runners. [U.S.] Sledges or pungs, coarsely framed of split saplings, and surmounted with a large crockery crate. Judd. They did not take out the pungs to-day. E. E. Hale. 

PUNGENCE:  Pungency. 

PUNGENCY:  The quality or state of being pungent or piercing; keenness; sharpness; piquancy; as, the pungency of ammonia. "The pungency of menaces." Hammond. 

PUNGENT:  Prickly-pointed; hard and sharp.  Syn.  -- Acrid; piercing; sharp; penetrating; acute; keen; acrimonious; biting; stinging. 

PUNGENTLY:  In a pungent manner; sharply. 

PUNGLED:  Shriveled or shrunken; -- said especially of grain which has lost its juices from the ravages of insects, such as the wheat midge, or Trips (Thrips cerealium). 

PUNGY:  A small sloop or shallop, or a large boat with sails. 

PUNICE:  See Punese. [Obs. or R.] 

PUNICE:  To punish. [Obs.] Chaucer.  PUNICEOUS; PUNICIAL Pu*ni"ceous, Pu*ni"cial, a. Etym: [L. puniceus, fr. Punicus Punic.]  Of a bright red or purple color. [R.] 

PUNINESS:  The quality or state of being puny; littleness; pettiness; feebleness. 

PUNISHABLE:  Deserving of, or liable to, punishment; capable of being punished by law or right; -- said of person or offenses. That time was, when to be a Protestant, to be a Christian, was by law as punishable as to be a traitor. Milton. -- Pun"ish*a*ble*ness, n. 

PUNISHER:  One who inflicts punishment. 

PUNISHMENT:  A penalty inflicted by a court of justice on a convicted offender as a just retribution, and incidentally for the purposes of reformation and prevention. 

PUNITION:  Punishment. [R.] Mir. for Mag. 

PUNITIVE:  Of or pertaining to punishment; involving, awarding, or inflicting punishment; as, punitive law or justice. If death be punitive, so, likewise, is the necessity imposed upon man of toiling for his subsistence. I. Taylor. We shall dread a blow from the punitive hand. Bagehot. 

PUNITORY:  Punishing; tending to punishment; punitive. God . . . may make moral evil, as well as natural, at the same time both prudential and punitory. A. Tucker. 

PUNKA:  A machine for fanning a room, usually a movable fanlike frame covered with canvas, and suspended from the ceiling. It is kept in motion by pulling a cord. [Hindostan] [Written also punkah.] Malcom. 

PUNKIE:  A minute biting fly of the genus Ceratopogon or allied genus of the family Chironomidæ, found in swarms in various densely wooded or mountaneous regions. [U. S.] 

PUNKIN:  A pumpkin. [Colloq. U. S.] 

PUNKLING:  A young strumpet. [Obs.] 

PUNNER:  A punster. Beau. & Fl. 

PUNNET:  A broad, shallow basket, for displaying fruit or flowers. 

PUNNOLOGY:  The art or practice of punning; paronomasia. [R.] Pope. 

PUNSTER:  One who puns, or is skilled in, or given to, punning; a quibbler; a low wit. 

PUNT:  To play at basset, baccara, faro. or omber; to gamble. She heard . . . of his punting at gaming tables. Thackeray. 

PUNT:  Act of playing at basset, baccara, faro, etc. 

PUNT:  A flat-bottomed boat with square ends. It is adapted for use in shallow waters. 

PUNT:  To kick (the ball) before it touches the ground, when let fall from the hands. 

PUNT:  The act of punting the ball. 

PUNTELLO:  One of the points sometimes drilled as guides for cutting away superfluous stone. 

PUNTER:  One who punts; specifically, one who plays against the banker or dealer, as in baccara and faro. Hoyle. 

PUNTER:  One who punts a football; also, one who propels a punt.  PUNTIL; PUNTEL Pun"til, Pun"tel, n. (Glass Making)  See Pontee. 

PUNTO:  A point or hit. Punto diritto Etym: [It.], a direct stroke or hit.  -- Punto reverso Etym: [It. riverso reverse], a backhanded stroke. Halliwell. "Ah, the immortal passado! the punto reverso!" Shak.  PUNT-OUT Punt"-out`, n. (American Football)  A punt made from the goal line by a player of the side which has made a touchdown to one of his own side for a fair catch, from which an attempt to kick a goal may be made. 

PUNTY:  See Pontee. 

PUNY:  Imperfectly developed in size or vigor; small and feeble; inferior; petty. A puny subject strikes at thy great glory. Shak. Breezes laugh to scorn our puny speed. Keble. 

PUNY:  A youth; a novice. [R.] Fuller. 

PUOY:  Same as Poy, n., 3. 

PUP:  To bring forth whelps or young, as the female of the canine species. 

PUPA:  Any insect in that stage of its metamorphosis which usually immediately precedes the adult, or imago, stage.  Note: Among insects belonging to the higher orders, as the Hymenoptera, Diptera, Lepidoptera, the pupa is inactive and takes no food; in the lower orders it is active and takes food, and differs little from the imago except in the rudimentary state of the sexual organs, and of the wings in those that have wings when adult. The term pupa is sometimes applied to other invertebrates in analogous stages of development.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of air-breathing land snails having an elongated spiral shell. Coarctate, or Obtected, pupa, a pupa which is incased in the dried-up skin of the larva, as in many Diptera.  -- Masked pupa, a pupa whose limbs are bound down and partly concealed by a chitinous covering, as in Lepidoptera. 

PUPAL:  Of or pertaining to a pupa, or the condition of a pupa. 

PUPATE:  To become a pupa. 

PUPATION:  the act of becoming a pupa. 

PUPE:  A pupa. 

PUPELO:  Cider brandy. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 

PUPIGEROUS:  Bearing or containing a pupa; -- said of dipterous larvæ which do not molt when the pupa is formed within them. 

PUPIL:  The aperture in the iris; the sight, apple, or black of the eye. See the Note under Eye, and Iris. Pin-hole pupil (Med.), the pupil of the eye when so contracted (as it sometimes is in typhus, or opium poisoning) as to resemble a pin hole. Dunglison. 

PUPIL:  A boy or a girl under the age of puberty, that is, under fourteen if a male, and under twelve if a female.  Syn.  -- Learner; disciple; tyro.  -- See Scholar. 

PUPILAGE:  The state of being a pupil. As sons of kings, loving in pupilage, Have turned to tyrants when they came to power. Tennyson. 

PUPILLARITY:  The period before puberty, or from birth to fourteen in males, and twelve in females. 

PUPILLARY:  Of or pertaining to the pupil of the eye. 

PUPILLOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the size of the pupil of the pupil of the eye. 

PUPIPARA:  A division of Diptera in which the young are born in a stage like the pupa. It includes the sheep tick, horse tick, and other parasites. Called also Homaloptera. 

PUPIVORA:  A group of parasitic Hymenoptera, including the ichneumon flies, which destroy the larvæ and pupæ of insects. 

PUPIVOROUS:  Feeding on the pupæ of insects. 

PUPLICAN:  Publican. [Obs.] 

PUPPET:  The upright support for the bearing of the spindle in a lathe. Puppet master. Same as Puppetman.  -- Puppet play, a puppet show.  -- Puppet player, one who manages the motions of puppets.  -- Puppet show, a mock drama performed by puppets moved by wires.  -- Puppet valve, a valve in the form of a circular disk, which covers a hole in its seat, and opens by moving bodily away from the seat while remaining parallel with it, -- used in steam engines, pumps, safety valves, etc. Its edge is often beveled, and fits in a conical recess in the seat when the valve is closed. See the valves shown in Illusts. of Plunger pump, and Safety valve, under Plunger, and Safety. 

PUPPETISH:  Resembling a puppet in appearance or action; of the nature of a puppet. 

PUPPETMAN:  A master of a puppet show. 

PUPPETRY:  Action or appearance resembling that of a puppet, or puppet show; hence, mere form or show; affectation. Puppetry of the English laws of divorce. Chambers. 

PUPPY:  The young of a canine animal, esp. of the common dog; a whelp.  2. A name of contemptuous reproach for a conceited and impertinent person. I found my place taken by an ill-bred, awkward puppy with a money bag under each arm. Addison. 

PUPPY:  To bring forth whelps; to pup. 

PUPPYHOOD:  The time or state of being a puppy; the time of being young and undisciplined. 

PUPPYISH:  Like a puppy. 

PUPPYISM:  Extreme meanness, affectation, conceit, or impudence. A. Chalmers. 

PUR:  To utter a low, murmuring, continued sound, as a cat does when pleased. [Written also purr.] 

PUR:  To signify or express by purring. Gray. 

PUR:  The low, murmuring sound made by a cat to express contentment or pleasure. [Written also purr.] 

PURANA:  One of a class of sacred Hindoo poetical works in the Sanskrit language which treat of the creation, destruction, and renovation of worlds, the genealogy and achievements of gods and heroes, the reigns of the Manus, and the transactions of their descendants. The principal Puranas are eighteen in number, and there are the same number of supplementary books called Upa Puranas. 

PURANIC:  Pertaining to the Puranas.  PURBECK BEDS Pur"beck beds`. Etym: [So called from the Isle of Purbeck in England.] (Geol.)  The strata of the Purbeck stone, or Purbeck limestone, belonging to the Oölitic group. See the Chart of Geology.  PURBECK STONE Pur"beck stone`. (Geol.)  A limestone from the Isle of Purbeck in England. 

PURCELANE:  Purslane. [Obs.] 

PURCHASABLE:  Capable of being bought, purchased, or obtained for a consideration; hence, venal; corrupt. Money being the counterbalance to all things purchasable by it, as much as you take off from the value of money, so much you add to the price of things exchanged. Locke. 

PURCHASE:  Acquisition of lands or tenements by other means than descent or inheritance, namely, by one's own act or agreement. Blackstone. Purchase criminal, robbery. [Obs.] Spenser.  -- Purchase money, the money paid, or contracted to be paid, for anything bought. Berkeley.  -- Worth, or At, [so many] years' purchase, a phrase by which the value or cost of a thing is expressed in the length of time required for the income to amount to the purchasing price; as, he bought the estate at a twenty years' purchase. To say one's life is not worth a day's purchase in the same as saying one will not live a day, or is in imminent peril. 

PURCHASER:  One who acquires an estate in lands by his own act or agreement, or who takes or obtains an estate by any means other than by descent or inheritance. 

PURDAH:  A curtain or screen; also, a cotton fabric in blue and white stripes, used for curtains. McElrath. 

PURE:  Ritually clean; fitted for holy services. Thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before the Lord. Lev. xxiv. 6.  5. (Phonetics)  Of a single, simple sound or tone; -- said of some vowels and the unaspirated consonants. Pure-impure, completely or totally impure. "The inhabitants were pure-impure pagans." Fuller.  -- Pure blue. (Chem.) See Methylene blue, under Methylene.  -- Pure chemistry. See under Chemistry.  -- Pure mathematics, that portion of mathematics which treats of the principles of the science, or contradistinction to applied mathematics, which treats of the application of the principles to the investigation of other branches of knowledge, or to the practical wants of life. See Mathematics. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ) -- Pure villenage (Feudal Law), a tenure of lands by uncertain services at the will of the lord. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- Unmixed; clear; simple; real; true; genuine; unadulterated; uncorrupted; unsullied; untarnished; unstained; stainless; clean; fair; unspotted; spotless; incorrupt; chaste; unpolluted; undefiled; immaculate; innocent; guiltless; guileless; holy. 

PURED:  Purified; refined. [Obs.] "Bread of pured wheat." "Pured gold." Chaucer. 

PUREE:  A dish made by boiling any article of food to a pulp and rubbing it through a sieve; as, a purée of fish, or of potatoes; especially, a soup the thickening of which is so treated. 

PURENESS:  The state of being pure (in any sense of the adjective). 

PURFILE:  A sort of ancient trimming of tinsel and thread for women's gowns; -- called also bobbinwork. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

PURFLE:  To ornament with a bordure of emines, furs, and the like; also, with gold studs or mountings.  PURFLE; PURFLEW Pur"fle, Pur"flew, n.  1. A hem, border., or trimming, as of embroidered work.  2. (Her.)  A border of any heraldic fur. 

PURFLED:  Ornamented; decorated; esp., embroidered on the edges. Purfled work (Arch.), delicate tracery, especially in Gothic architecture. 

PURFLING:  Ornamentation on the border of a thing; specifically, the inlaid border of a musical instrument, as a violin. 

PURGAMENT:  A cathartic; a purgative. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PURGATION:  The clearing of one's self from a crime of which one was publicly suspected and accused. It was either canonical, which was prescribed by the canon law, the form whereof used in the spiritual court was, that the person suspected take his oath that he was clear of the matter objected against him, and bring his honest neighbors with him to make oath that they believes he swore truly; or vulgar, which was by fire or water ordeal, or by combat. See Ordeal. Wharton. Let him put me to my purgation. Shak. 

PURGATIVE:  Having the power or quality of purging; cathartic.  -- n. (Med.)  A purging medicine; a cathartic. 

PURGATIVELY:  In a purgative manner.  PURGATORIAL; PURGATORIAN Pur`ga*to"ri*al, Pur`ga*to"ri*an, a.  Of or pertaining to purgatory; expiatory. 

PURGATORIAN:  One who holds to the doctrine of purgatory. Boswell. 

PURGATORY:  Tending to cleanse; cleansing; expiatory. Burke. 

PURGATORY:  A state or place of purification after death; according to the Roman Catholic creed, a place, or a state believed to exist after death, in which the souls of persons are purified by expiating such offenses committed in this life as do not merit eternal damnation, or in which they fully satisfy the justice of God for sins that have been forgiven. After this purgation from the impurities of sin, the souls are believed to be received into heaven. 

PURGE:  To operate on as, or by means of, a cathartic medicine, or in a similar manner.  3. To clarify; to defecate, as liquors.  4. To clear of sediment, as a boiler, or of air, as a steam pipe, by driving off or permitting escape.  5. To clear from guilt, or from moral or ceremonial defilement; as, to purge one of guilt or crime. When that he hath purged you from sin. Chaucer. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Ps. li. 7.  6. (Law)  To clear from accusation, or the charge of a crime or misdemeanor, as by oath or in ordeal.  7. To remove in cleansing; to deterge; to wash away; -- often followed by away. Purge away our sins, for thy name's sake. Ps. lxxix. 9. We 'll join our cares to purge away Our country's crimes. Addison. 

PURGER:  One who, or that which, purges or cleanses; especially, a cathartic medicine. 

PURGERY:  The part of a sugarhouse where the molasses is drained off from the sugar. 

PURGING:  That purges; cleansing. Purging flax (Bot.), an annual European plant of the genus Linum (L. catharticum); dwarf wild flax; -- so called from its use as a cathartic medicine. 

PURGING:  The act of cleansing; excessive evacuations; especially, diarrhea. 

PURI:  See Euxanthin. 

PURIFICATIVE:  Having power to purify; tending to cleanse. [R.] 

PURIFICATOR:  One who, or that which, purifies; a purifier. 

PURIFICATORY:  Serving or tending to purify; purificative. 

PURIFIER:  One who, or that which, purifies or cleanses; a cleanser; a refiner. 

PURIFORM:  In the form of pus. 

PURIFY:  To grow or become pure or clear. 

PURIM:  A Jewish festival, called also the Feast of Lots, instituted to commemorate the deliverance of the Jews from the machinations of Haman. Esther ix. 26. 

PURISM:  Rigid purity; the quality of being affectedly pure or nice, especially in the choice of language; over-solicitude as to purity. "His political purism." De Quincey. The English language, however, . . . had even already become too thoroughly and essentially a mixed tongue for his doctrine of purism to be admitted to the letter. Craik. 

PURIST:  Of or pertaining to purists or purism. 

PURITAN:  One who, in the time of Queen Elizabeth and the first two Stuarts, opposed traditional and formal usages, and advocated simpler forms of faith and worship than those established by law; -- originally, a term of reproach. The Puritans formed the bulk of the early population of New England.  Note: The Puritans were afterward distinguished as Political Puritans, Doctrinal Puritans, and Puritans in Discipline. Hume.  2. One who is scrupulous and strict in his religious life; -- often used reproachfully or in contempt; one who has overstrict notions. She would make a puritan of the devil. Shak. 

PURITAN:  Of or pertaining to the Puritans; resembling, or characteristic of, the Puritans.  PURITANIC; PURITANICAL Pu`ri*tan"ic, Pu`ri*tan"ic*al, a.  1. Of or pertaining to the Puritans, or to their doctrines and practice.  2. Precise in observance of legal or religious requirements; strict; overscrupulous; rigid; -- often used by way of reproach or contempt. Paritanical circles, from which plays and novels were strictly excluded. Macaulay. He had all the puritanic traits, both good and evil. Hawthorne. 

PURITANICALLY:  In a puritanical manner. 

PURITANISM:  The doctrines, notions, or practice of Puritans. 

PURITANIZE:  To agree with, or teach, the doctrines of Puritans; to conform to the practice of Puritans. Bp. Montagu. 

PURITY:  The condition of being pure. Specifically: (a) freedom from foreign admixture or deleterious matter; as, the purity of water, of wine, of drugs, of metals. (b) Cleanness; freedom from foulness or dirt. "The purity of a linen vesture." Holyday. (c) Freedom from guilt or the defilement of sin; innocence; chastity; as, purity of heart or of life. (d) Freedom from any sinister or improper motives or views. (e) Freedom from foreign idioms, or from barbarous or improper words or phrases; as, purity of style.  PURKINJE'S CELLS Pur"kin*je's cells`. Etym: [From J. E. Purkinje, their discoverer.] (Anat.)  Large ganglion cells forming a layer near the surface of the cerebellum. 

PURL:  To decorate with fringe or embroidery. "Nature's cradle more enchased and purled." B. Jonson. 

PURL:  To rise in circles, ripples, or undulations; to curl; to mantle. thin winding breath which purled up to the sky. Shak. 

PURL:  Malt liquor, medicated or spiced; formerly, ale or beer in which wormwood or other bitter herbs had been infused, and which was regarded as tonic; at present, hot beer mixed with gin, sugar, and spices. "Drank a glass of purl to recover appetite." Addison. "Drinking hot purl, and smoking pipes." Dickens.  4. (Zoöl.)  A tern. [Prov. Eng.] 

PURLIEU:  In root construction, a horizontal member supported on the principals and supporting the common rafters. 

PURLING:  The motion of a small stream running among obstructions; also, the murmur it makes in so doing. 

PURLOIN:  To take or carry away for one's self; hence, to steal; to take by theft; to filch. Had from his wakeful custody purloined The guarded gold. Milton. when did the muse from Fletcher scenes purloin Dryden. 

PURLOIN:  To practice theft; to steal. Titus ii. 10. 

PURLOINER:  One who purloins. Swift. 

PURPARTY:  A share, part, or portion of an estate allotted to a coparcener. [Written also purpart, and pourparty.] I am forced to eat all the game of your purparties, as well as my own thirds. Walpole. 

PURPLE:  Any species of large butterflies, usually marked with purple or blue, of the genus Basilarchia (formerly Limenitis) as, the banded purple (B. arthemis). See Illust. under Ursula.  6. (Zoöl.)  Any shell of the genus Purpura.  7. pl.(Med.)  See Purpura.  8. pl.  A disease of wheat. Same as Earcockle.  Note: Purple is sometimes used in composition, esp. with participles forming words of obvious signification; as, purple-colored, purple- hued, purple-stained, purple-tinged, purple-tinted, and the like. French purple. (Chem.) Same as Cudbear.  -- Purple of Cassius. See Cassius.  -- Purple of mollusca (Zoöl.), a coloring matter derived from certain mollusks, which dyes wool, etc., of a purple or crimson color, and is supposed to be the substance of the famous Tyrian dye. It is obtained from Ianthina, and from several species of Purpura, and Murex.  -- To be born in the purple, to be of princely birth; to be highborn. 

PURPLE:  To make purple; to dye of purple or deep red color; as, hands purpled with blood. When morn Purples the east. Milton. Reclining soft in blissful bowers, Purpled sweet with springing flowers. Fenton. 

PURPLEHEART:  A strong, durable, and elastic wood of a purplish color, obtained from several tropical American leguminous trees of the genus Copaifera (C. pubiflora, bracteata, and officinalis). Used for decorative veneering. See Copaiba. 

PURPLEWOOD:  Same as Purpleheart. 

PURPLISH:  Somewhat purple. Boyle. 

PURPORT:  To intend to show; to intend; to mean; to signify; to import; - - often with an object clause or infinitive. They in most grave and solemn wise unfolded Matter which little purported. Rowe. 

PURPORTLESS:  Without purport or meaning. 

PURPOSE:  To have a purpose or intention; to discourse. [Obs.] Spenser. 

PURPOSEDLY:  In a purposed manner; according to purpose or design; purposely. A poem composed purposedly of the Trojan war. Holland. 

PURPOSEFUL:  Important; material. "Purposeful accounts." Tylor.  -- Pur"pose*ful*ly, adv. 

PURPOSELESS:  Having no purpose or result; objectless. Bp. Hall.  -- Pur"pose*less*ness, n. 

PURPOSELY:  With purpose or design; intentionally; with predetermination; designedly. In composing this discourse, I purposely declined all offensive and displeasing truths. Atterbury. So much they scorn the crowd, that if the throng By chance go right, they purposely go wrong. Pope. 

PURPOSIVE:  Having or indicating purpose or design. "Purposive characters." Bastian. Purposive modification of structure in a bone. Owen. It is impossible that the frog should perform actions morepurposive than these. Huxley. 

PURPRE:  Purple. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PURPRESTURE:  Wrongful encroachment upon another's property; esp., any encroachment upon, or inclosure of, that which should be common or public, as highways, rivers, harbors, forts, etc. [Written also pourpresture.] 

PURPRISE:  A close or inclosure; the compass of a manor. Bacon. 

PURPURA:  A disease characterized by livid spots on the skin from extravasated blood, with loss of muscular strength, pain in the limbs, and mental dejection; the purples. Dunglison.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of marine gastropods, usually having a rough and thick shell. Some species yield a purple dye. 

PURPURATE:  Of or pertaining to purpura. 

PURPURATE:  A salt of purpuric acid. 

PURPURE:  Purple, -- represented in engraving by diagonal lines declining from the right top to the left base of the escutcheon (or from sinister chief to dexter base). 

PURPUREAL:  Of a purple color; purple.  PURPUREO- Pur*pu"re*o-.  A combining form signifying of a purple or purple-red color. Specif. (Chem.), used in designating certain brilliant purple-red compounds of cobaltic chloride and ammonia, similar to the roseocobaltic compounds. See Cobaltic. 

PURPURIC:  Of or pertaining to purpura. Dunglison.  2. (Chem.)  Pertaining to or designating, a nitrogenous acid contained in uric acid. It is not known in the pure state, but forms well-known purple-red compounds (as murexide), whence its name.  Note: Purpuric acid was formerly used to designate murexan. See Murexan. 

PURPURIN:  A dyestuff resembling alizarin, found in madder root, and extracted as an orange or red crystalline substance. 

PURPURIPAROUS:  Producing, or connected with, a purple-colored secretion; as, the purpuriparous gland of certain gastropods. 

PURPUROGENOUS:  Having the power to produce a purple color; as, the purpurogenous membrane, or choroidal epithelium, of the eye. See Visual purple, under Visual. 

PURR:  To murmur as a cat. See Pur. 

PURR:  The low murmuring sound made by a cat; pur. See Pur. 

PURRE:  The dunlin. [Prov. Eng.] 

PURREE:  A yellow coloring matter. See Euxanthin. 

PURROCK:  See Puddock, and Parrock. 

PURSE:  To steal purses; to rob. [Obs. & R.] I'll purse: . . . I'll bet at bowling alleys. Beau. & Fl. 

PURSEFUL:  All that is, or can be, contained in a purse; enough to fill a purse.  PURSE-PROUD Purse"-proud`, a.  Affected with purse pride; puffed up with the possession of riches. 

PURSER:  A commissioned officer in the navy who had charge of the provisions, clothing, and public moneys on shipboard; -- now called paymaster.  2. A clerk on steam passenger vessels whose duty it is to keep the accounts of the vessels, such as the receipt of freight, tickets, etc.  3. Colloquially, any paymaster or cashier. Purser's name (Naut.), a false name. [Slang] 

PURSERSHIP:  The office of purser. Totten. 

PURSET:  A purse or purse net. B. Jonson. 

PURSINESS:  State of being pursy. 

PURSIVE:  Pursy. [Obs.] Holland. 

PURSIVENESS:  Pursiness. [Obs. & R.] 

PURSLAIN:  Same as Purslane. 

PURSLANE:  An annual plant (Portulaca oleracea), with fleshy, succulent, obovate leaves, sometimes used as a pot herb and for salads, garnishing, and pickling. Flowering purslane, or Great flowered purslane, the Portulaca grandiflora. See Portulaca.  -- Purslane tree, a South African shrub (Portulacaria Afra) with many small opposite fleshy obovate leaves.  -- Sea purslane, a seashore plant (Arenaria peploides) with crowded opposite fleshy leaves.  -- Water purslane, an aquatic plant (Ludwiqia palustris) but slightly resembling purslane. 

PURSUABLE:  Capable of being, or fit to be, pursued, followed, or prosecuted. Sherwood. 

PURSUAL:  The act of pursuit. [R.] 

PURSUANT:  Acting in consequence or in prosecution (of anything); hence, agreeable; conformable; following; according; -- with to or of. The conclusion which I draw from these premises, pursuant to the query laid down, is, etc. Waterland.  PURSUANT; PURSUANTLY Pur*su"ant, Pur*su"ant*ly, adv.  Agreeably; conformably. 

PURSUE:  To follow a matter judicially, as a complaining party; to act as a prosecutor. Burrill. 

PURSUER:  A plaintiff; a prosecutor. 

PURSUIT:  Prosecution. [Obs.] That pursuit for tithes ought, and of ancient time did pertain to the spiritual court. Fuller. Curve of pursuit (Geom.), a curve described by a point which is at each instant moving towards a second point, which is itself moving according to some specified law. 

PURSUIVANT:  A functionary of lower rank than a herald, but discharging similar duties; -- called also pursuivant at arms; an attendant of the heralds. Also used figuratively. The herald Hope, forerunning Fear, And Fear, the pursuivant of Hope. Longfellow.  2. The king's messenger; a state messenger. One pursuivant who attempted to execute a warrant there was murdered. Macaulay. 

PURSUIVANT:  To pursue. [Obs. & R.] Their navy was pursuivanted after with a horrible tempest. Fuller. 

PURSY:  Fat and short-breathed; fat, short, and thick; swelled with pampering; as, pursy insolence. Shak. Pursy important he sat him down. Sir W. Scot. 

PURTENANCE:  That which pertains or belongs to something; esp., the heard, liver, and lungs of an animal. [Obs.] " The purtenaunces of purgatory." Piers Plowman. Roast [it] with fire, his head with his legs, and with the purtenance [Rev. Ver., inwards] thereof. Ex. xii. 9.  PURULENCE; PURULENCY Pu"ru*lence, Pu"ru*len*cy, n. Etym: [L. purulentia: cf. F. purulence.] (Med.)  The quality or state of being purulent; the generation of pus; also, the pus itself. Arbuthnot. 

PURULENT:  Consisting of pus, or matter; partaking of the nature of pus; attended with suppuration; as, purulent inflammation. 

PURULENTLY:  In a purulent manner.  PURVEANCE; PURVEIAUNCE Pur"ve*ance, Pur"vei*aunce`, n.  Purveyance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PURVEYANCE:  A providing necessaries for the sovereign by buying them at an appraised value in preference to all others, and oven without the owner's consent. This was formerly a royal prerogative, but has long been abolished. Wharton. 

PURVIEW:  The limit or scope of a statute; the whole extent of its intention or provisions. Marshall. Profanations within the purview of several statutes. Bacon.  2. Limit or sphere of authority; scope; extent. In determining the extent of information required in the exercise of a particular authority, recourse must be had to the objects within the purview of that authority. Madison. 

PUS:  The yellowish white opaque creamy matter produced by the process of suppuration. It consists of innumerable white nucleated cells floating in a clear liquid. 

PUSANE:  A piece of armor for the breast; often, an addition to, or reënforcement of. the breastplate; -- called also pesane. 

PUSEYISM:  The principles of Dr. Pusey and others at Oxford, England, as exhibited in various publications, esp. in a series which appeared from 1833 to 1841, designated " Tracts for the Times;" tractarianism. See Tractarianism.  PUSEYISTIC; PUSEYITE Pu"sey*is"tic, Pu"sey*ite, a.  Of or pertaining to Puseyism. 

PUSEYITE:  One who holds the principles of Puseyism; -- often used opprobriously. 

PUSH:  A pustule; a pimple. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Bacon. 

PUSH:  A simple device, resembling a button in form, so arranged that pushing it closes an electric circuit, as of an electric bell. 

PUSHER:  One who, or that which, pushes. 

PUSHING:  Pressing forward in business; enterprising; driving; energetic; also, forward; officious, intrusive.  -- Push"ing*ly, adv. 

PUSHPIN:  A child's game played with pins. L. Estrange. 

PUSIL:  Very small; little; petty. [Obs.] Bacon. 

PUSILLANIMITY:  The quality of being pusillanimous; weakness of spirit; cowardliness. The badge of pusillanimity and cowardice. Shak. It is obvious to distinguished between an act of . . . pusillanimity and an act of great modesty or humility. South.  Syn.  -- Cowardliness; cowardice; fear; timidity. 

PUSILLANIMOUSLY:  With pusillanimity. 

PUSLEY:  Purslane. [Colloq. U. S] 

PUSSY:  See Pursy. [Colloq. or Low] 

PUSTULANT:  Producing pustules.  -- n.  A medicine that produces pustules, as croton oil. 

PUSTULAR:  1. Of or pertaining to pustules; as, pustular prominences; pustular eruptions.  2. Covered with pustulelike prominences; pustulate. 

PUSTULATE:  To form into pustules, or blisters.  PUSTULATE; PUSTULATED Pus"tu*late, Pus"tu*la`ted, a.  Covered with pustulelike prominences; pustular; pustulous; as, a pustulate leaf; a pustulate shell or coral. 

PUSTULATION:  The act of producing pustules; the state of being pustulated. 

PUSTULE:  A vesicle or an elevation of the cuticle with an inflamed base, containing pus. Malignant pustule. See under Malignant. 

PUSTULOUS:  Resembling, or covered with, pustules; pustulate; pustular. 

PUT:  A pit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PUT:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Put, contracted from putteth. Chaucer. 

PUT:  A rustic; a clown; an awkward or uncouth person. Queer country puts extol Queen Bess's reign. Bramston. What droll puts the citizens seem in it all. F. Harrison. 

PUT:  To convey coal in the mine, as from the working to the tramway. Raymond. Put case, formerly, an elliptical expression for, put or suppose the case to be. Put case that the soul after departure from the body may live. Bp. Hall. -- To put about (Naut.), to turn, or change the course of, as a ship.  -- To put away. (a) To renounce; to discard; to expel. (b) To divorce.  -- To put back. (a) To push or thrust backwards; hence, to hinder; to delay. (b) To refuse; to deny. Coming from thee, I could not put him back. Shak. (c) To set, as the hands of a clock, to an earlier hour. (d) To restore to the original place; to replace.  -- To put by. (a) To turn, set, or thrust, aside. "Smiling put the question by." Tennyson. (b) To lay aside; to keep; to sore up; as, to put by money.  -- To put down. (a) To lay down; to deposit; to set down. (b) To lower; to diminish; as, to put down prices. (c) To deprive of position or power; to put a stop to; to suppress; to abolish; to confute; as, to put down rebellion of traitors. Mark, how a plain tale shall put you down. Shak. Sugar hath put down the use of honey. Bacon. (d) To subscribe; as, to put down one's name.  -- To put forth. (a) To thrust out; to extend, as the hand; to cause to come or push out; as, a tree puts forth leaves. (b) To make manifest; to develop; also, to bring into action; to exert; as, to put forth strength. (c) To propose, as a question, a riddle, and the like. (d) To publish, as a book.  -- To put forward. (a) To advance to a position of prominence responsibility; to promote. (b) To cause to make progress; to aid. (c) To set, as the hands of a clock, to a later hour.  -- To put in. (a) To introduce among others; to insert; sometimes, to introduce with difficulty; as, to put in a word while others are discoursing. (b) (Naut.) To conduct into a harbor, as a ship. (c) (Law) To place in due form before a court; to place among the records of a court. Burrill. (d) (Med.) To restore, as a dislocated part, to its place.  -- To put off. (a) To lay aside; to discard; as, to put off a robe; to put off mortality. "Put off thy shoes from off thy feet." Ex. iii. 5. (b) To turn aside; to elude; to disappoint; to frustrate; to baffle. I hoped for a demonstration, but Themistius hoped to put me off with an harangue. Boyle. We might put him off with this answer. Bentley. (c) To delay; to defer; to postpone; as, to put off repentance. (d) To get rid of; to dispose of; especially, to pass fraudulently; as, to put off a counterfeit note, or an ingenious theory. (e) To push from land; as, to put off a boat.  -- To put on or upon. (a) To invest one's self with, as clothes; to assume. "Mercury . . . put on the shape of a man." L'Estrange. (b) To impute (something) to; to charge upon; as, to put blame on or upon another. (c) To advance; to promote. [Obs.] "This came handsomely to put on the peace." Bacon. (d) To impose; to inflict. "That which thou puttest on me, will I bear." 2 Kings xviii. 14. (e) To apply; as, to put on workmen; to put on steam. (f) To deceive; to trick. "The stork found he was put upon." L'Estrange. (g) To place upon, as a means or condition; as, he put him upon bread and water. "This caution will put them upon considering." Locke. (h) (Law) To rest upon; to submit to; as, a defendant puts himself on or upon the country. Burrill.  -- To put out. (a) To eject; as, to put out and intruder. (b) To put forth; to shoot, as a bud, or sprout. (c) To extinguish; as, to put out a candle, light, or fire. (d) To place at interest; to loan; as, to put out funds. (e) To provoke, as by insult; to displease; to vex; as, he was put out by my reply. [Colloq.] (f) To protrude; to stretch forth; as, to put out the hand. (g) To publish; to make public; as, to put out a pamphlet. (h) To confuse; to disconcert; to interrupt; as, to put one out in reading or speaking. (i) (Law) To open; as, to put out lights, that is, to open or cut windows. Burrill. (j) (Med.) To place out of joint; to dislocate; as, to put out the ankle. (k) To cause to cease playing, or to prevent from playing longer in a certain inning, as in base ball.  -- To put over. (a) To place (some one) in authority over; as, to put a general over a division of an army. (b) To refer. For the certain knowledge of that knowledge of that truthput you o'er to heaven and to my mother. Shak. (c) To defer; to postpone; as, the court put over the cause to the next term. (d) To transfer (a person or thing) across; as, to put one over the river.  -- To put the hand to or unto. (a) To take hold of, as of an instrument of labor; as, to put the hand to the plow; hence, to engage in (any task or affair); as, to put one's hand to the work. (b) To take or seize, as in theft. "He hath not put his hand unto his neighbor's goods." Ex. xxii. 11.  -- To put through, to cause to go through all conditions or stages of a progress; hence, to push to completion; to accomplish; as, he put through a measure of legislation; he put through a railroad enterprise. [U.S.] -- To put to. (a) To add; to unite; as, to put one sum to another. (b) To refer to; to expose; as, to put the safety of the state to hazard. "That dares not put it to the touch." Montrose. (c) To attach (something) to; to harness beasts to. Dickens.  -- To put to a stand, to stop; to arrest by obstacles or difficulties.  -- To put to bed. (a) To undress and place in bed, as a child. (b) To deliver in, or to make ready for, childbirth.  -- To put to death, to kill.  -- To put together, to attach; to aggregate; to unite in one.  -- To put this and that (or two and two) together, to draw an inference; to form a correct conclusion.  -- To put to it, to distress; to press hard; to perplex; to give difficulty to. "O gentle lady, do not put me to 't." Shak.  -- To put to rights, to arrange in proper order; to settle or compose rightly.  -- To put to the sword, to kill with the sword; to slay.  -- To put to trial, or on trial, to bring to a test; to try.  -- To put trust in, to confide in; to repose confidence in.  -- To put up. (a) To pass unavenged; to overlook; not to punish or resent; to put up with; as, to put up indignities. [Obs.] "Such national injuries are not to be put up." Addison. (b) To send forth or upward; as, to put up goods for sale. (d) To start from a cover, as game. "She has been frightened; she has been put up." C. Kingsley. (e) To hoard. "Himself never put up any of the rent." Spelman. (f) To lay side or preserve; to pack away; to store; to pickle; as, to put up pork, beef, or fish. (g) To place out of sight, or away; to put in its proper place; as, put up that letter. Shak. (h) To incite; to instigate; -- followed by to; as, he put the lad up to mischief. (i) To raise; to erect; to build; as, to put up a tent, or a house. (j) To lodge; to entertain; as, to put up travelers.  -- To put up a job, to arrange a plot. [Slang]  Syn.  -- To place; set; lay; cause; produce; propose; state.  -- Put, Lay, Place, Set. These words agree in the idea of fixing the position of some object, and are often used interchangeably. To put is the least definite, denoting merely to move to a place. To place has more particular reference to the precise location, as to put with care in a certain or proper place. To set or to lay may be used when there is special reference to the position of the object. 

PUT:  A prostitute. [Obs.] 

PUTAGE:  Prostitution or fornication on the part of a woman. 

PUTAMEN:  The shell of a nut; the stone of a drupe fruit. See Endocarp. 

PUTANISM:  Habitual lewdness or prostitution of a woman; harlotry. 

PUTATIVE:  Commonly thought or deemed; supposed; reputed; as, the putative father of a child. "His other putative (I dare not say feigned) friends." E. Hall. Thus things indifferent, being esteemed useful or pious, became customary, and then came for reverence into a putative and usurped authority. Jer. Taylor. 

PUTCHUCK:  Same as Pachak. 

PUTEAL:  An inclosure surrounding a well to prevent persons from falling into it; a well curb. Weale. 

PUTELI:  Same as Patela. 

PUTERY:  Putage. [Obs.] 

PUTID:  Rotten; fetid; stinking; base; worthless. Jer. Taylor. "Thy putid muse." Dr. H. More.  PUTIDITY; PUTIDNESS Pu*tid"i*ty, Pu"tid*ness, n.  The quality or state of being putrid. 

PUTLOG:  One of the short pieces of timber on which the planks forming the floor of a scaffold are laid, -- one end resting on the ledger of the scaffold, and the other in a hole left in the wall temporarily for the purpose. Oxf. Gloss.  PUT-OFF Put"-off`, n.  A shift for evasion or delay; an evasion; an excuse. L'Estrange. 

PUTOUR:  A keeper of a brothel; a procurer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PUTREDINOUS:  Proceeding from putrefaction, or partaking of the putrefactive process; having an offensive smell; stinking; rotten. 

PUTREFY:  To become putrid; to decay offensively; to rot. Isa. 1. 6. 

PUTRESCE:  To become putrescent or putrid; to putrefy.  Ordinarily sewage does not putresce until from twenty-four to sixty hours after its discharge. Nature. 

PUTRESCENCE:  The state of being putrescent; putrescent matter. 

PUTRESCIBLE:  Capable of putrefaction; liable to become putrid; as, putrescible substances. 

PUTRESCIBLE:  A substance, usually nitrogenous, which is liable to undergo decomposition when in contact with air and moisture at ordinary temperatures. 

PUTRESCIN:  A nontoxic diamine, C4H12N2, formed in the putrefaction of the flesh of mammals and some other animals. 

PUTRIDITY:  The quality of being putrid; putrefaction; rottenness. 

PUTRIDNESS:  Putridity. Floyer. 

PUTRIFACTED:  Putrefied. [Obs.] What vermin bred of putrifacted slime. Marston. 

PUTRIFICATION:  Putrefaction. 

PUTRIFY:  To putrefy. 

PUTRILAGE:  That which is undergoing putrefaction; the products of putrefaction. 

PUTRY:  Putrid. [Obs.] Marston. 

PUTRY:  Putage. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PUTT:  A stroke made on the putting green to play the ball into a hole. 

PUTT:  To make a putt. 

PUTTEE:  Same as Putty, a kind of gaiter. 

PUTTER:  To act inefficiently or idly; to trifle; to potter.  PUTTER-ON Put"ter-on`, n.  An instigator. Shak. 

PUTTIER:  One who putties; a glazier. 

PUTTING:  The throwing of a heavy stone, shot, etc., with the hand raised or extended from the shoulder; -- originally, a Scottish game. Putting stone, a heavy stone used in the game of putting.  PUTTING GREEN Putt"ing green. (Golf)  The green, or plot of smooth turf, surrounding a hole. "The term putting green shall mean the ground within twenty yards of the hole, excepting hazards."  Golf Rules. 

PUTTOCK:  See Futtock. [Obs.] 

PUTTY:  A kind of thick paste or cement compounded of whiting, or soft carbonate of lime, and linseed oil, when applied beaten or kneaded to the consistence of dough, -- used in fastening glass in sashes, stopping crevices, and for similar purposes. Putty powder, an oxide of tin, or of tin and lead in various proportions, much used in polishing glass, metal, precious stones, etc. 

PUTTY:  To cement, or stop, with putty.  PUTTY-FACED Put"ty-faced`, a.  White-faced; -- used contemptuously. Clarke. 

PUTTYROOT:  An American orchidaceous plant (Aplectrum hyemale) which flowers in early summer. Its slender naked rootstock produces each year a solid corm, filled with exceedingly glutinous matter, which sends up later a single large oval evergreen plaited leaf. Called also Adam-and-Eve.  PUT-UP Put"-up, a.  Arranged; plotted; -- in a bad sense; as, a put-up job. [Colloq.] 

PUY:  See Poy. 

PUZZEL:  A harlot; a drab; a hussy. [Obs.] Shak. 

PUZZLEDOM:  The domain of puzzles; puzzles, collectively. C. Kingsley.  PUZZLE-HEADED Puz"zle-head`ed, a.  Having the head full of confused notions. Johnson. 

PUZZLEMENT:  The state of being puzzled; perplexity. Miss Mitford. 

PUZZLER:  One who, or that which, puzzles or perplexes. Hebrew, the general puzzler of old heads. Brome. 

PUZZLINGLY:  In a puzzling manner.  PUZZOLAN; PUZZOLANA Puz"zo*lan, Puz`zo*la"na, n.  See Pozzuolana. 

PYAEMIA:  A form of blood poisoning produced by the absorption into the blood of morbid matters usually originating in a wound or local inflammation. It is characterized by the development of multiple abscesses throughout the body, and is attended with irregularly recurring chills, fever, profuse sweating, and exhaustion. 

PYAEMIC:  Of or pertaining to pyæmia; of the nature of pyæmia. 

PYCNASPIDEAN:  Having the posterior side of the tarsus covered with small irregular scales; -- said of certain birds. 

PYCNIDIUM:  In certain fungi, a flask-shaped cavity from the surface of the inner walls of which spores are produced. 

PYCNITE:  A massive subcolumnar variety of topaz. 

PYCNODONT:  Any fossil fish belonging to the Pycnodontini. They have numerous round, flat teeth, adapted for crushing. 

PYCNODONTINI:  An extinct order of ganoid fishes. They had a compressed body, covered with dermal ribs (pleurolepida) and with enameled rhomboidal scales. 

PYCNOGONID:  One of the Pycnogonida. 

PYCNOGONIDA:  A class of marine arthropods in which the body is small and thin, and the eight legs usually very long; -- called also Pantopoda.  Note: The abdomen is rudimentary, and the triangular mouth is at the end of a tubular proboscis. Many of them live at great depths in the sea, and the largest of them measure two feet across the extended legs. 

PYCNOMETER:  A specific gravity bottle; a standard flask for measuring and comparing the densities of liquids. [Also written pyknometer.] 

PYCNOSTYLE:  See under Intercolumniation. -n.  A pycnostyle colonnade. 

PYE:  See 2d Pie (b). 

PYEBALD:  See Piebald. 

PYELITIS:  Inflammation of the pelvis of the kidney. 

PYEMIA:  See PyÆmia. 

PYET:  A magpie; a piet. [Prov. Eng.] Here cometh the worthy prelate as pert as a pyet. Sir W. Scott. 

PYGAL:  Situated in the region of the rump, or posterior end of the backbone; -- applied especially to the posterior median plates in the carapace of chelonians.  PYGARG; PYGARGUS Py"garg, Py*gar"gus,Etym: [L. pygargus, Gr. pygargue.]  1. (Zoöl.)  A quadruped, probably the addax, an antelope having a white rump. Deut. xiv. 5.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The female of the hen harrier. (b) The sea eagle. 

PYGIDIUM:  The caudal plate of trilobites, crustacean, and certain insects. See Illust. of Limulus and Trilobite.  PYGMY; PYGMEAN Pyg"my, Pyg*me"an, a. Etym: [L. pygmaeus. See Pygmy.]  Of or pertaining to a pygmy; resembling a pygmy or dwarf; dwarfish; very small. " Like that Pygmean race." Milton. Pygmy antelope (Zoöl.), the kleeneboc.  -- Pygmy goose (Zoöl.), any species of very small geese of the genus Nettapus, native of Africa, India, and Australia.  -- Pygmy owl (Zoöl.), the gnome. Pygmy parrot (Zoöl.), any one of several species of very small green parrots (Nasiternæ), native of New Guinea and adjacent islands. They are not larger than sparrows. Pygmy chimpanzee, a species of anthropoid ape (Pan paniscus) resembling the chimpanzee, but somewhat smaller; also called bonobo. It is considered (1996) as having the closest genetic relationship to humans of any other animal. It is found in forests in Zaire, and is an endangered species. 

PYGMY:  One of a fabulous race of dwarfs who waged war with the cranes, and were destroyed.  2. Hence, a short, insignificant person; a dwarf. Pygmies are pygmies still, though perched on Alps. And pyramids are pyramids in vales. Young. 

PYGOBRANCHIA:  A division of opisthobranchiate mollusks having the branchiæ in a wreath or group around the anal opening, as in the genus Doris. 

PYGOPOD:  One of the Pygopodes.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any species of serpentiform lizards of the family Pygopodidæ, which have rudimentary hind legs near the anal cleft, but lack fore legs. 

PYGOPODES:  A division of swimming birds which includes the grebes, divers, auks, etc., in which the legs are placed far back. 

PYGOPODOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Pygopodes. 

PYGOSTYLE:  The plate of bone which forms the posterior end of the vertebral column in most birds; the plowshare bone; the vomer. It is formed by the union of a number of the last caudal vertebræ, and supports the uropigium. 

PYIN:  An albuminoid constituent of pus, related to mucin, possibly a mixture of substances rather than a single body. 

PYJAMA:  In India and Persia, thin loose trowsers or drawers; in Europe and America, drawers worn at night, or a kind of nightdress with legs. [Written also paijama.]  PYJAMAS; PAJAMAS Py*ja"mas, or, chiefly U. S., Pa*ja"mas, n. pl.  A garment, similar to the Oriental pyjama (which see), adopted among Europeans, Americans, and other Occidentals, for wear in the dressing room and during sleep; also, a suit of drawers and blouse for such wear. 

PYKAR:  An ancient English fishing boat. 

PYLA:  The passage between the iter and optocoele in the brain. B. G. Wilder. 

PYLAGORE:  a deputy of a State at the Amphictyonic council. 

PYLANGIUM:  The first and undivided part of the aortic trunk in the amphibian heart.  -- Py*lan"gi*al, a. 

PYLORIC:  Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pylorus; as, the pyloric end of the stomach. 

PYNE:  See Pine. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PYNOUN:  A pennant. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

PYOCYANIN:  A blue coloring matter found in the pus from old sores, supposed to be formed through the agency of a species of bacterium (Bacillus pyocyaneus).C13H10N2O 

PYOGENIC:  Producing or generating pus. 

PYOID:  Of or pertaining to pus; of the nature of, or like, pus. Pyoid corpuscles (Med.), cells of a size larger than pus corpuscles, containing two or more of the latter. 

PYOPNEUMOTHORAX:  Accumulation of air, or other gas, and of pus, in the pleural cavity. 

PYOT:  The magpie. See Piet. 

PYOXANTHOSE:  A greenish yellow crystalline coloring matter found with pyocyanin in pus. 

PYRACANTH:  The evergreen thorn (Cratægus Pyracantha), a shrub native of Europe. 

PYRAL:  Of or pertaining to a pyre. [R.] 

PYRALID:  Any moth of the family Pyralidæ. The species are numerous and mostly small, but some of them are very injurious, as the bee moth, meal moth, hop moth, and clover moth. 

PYRAMID:  A solid figure contained by a plane rectilineal figure as base and several triangles which have a common vertex and whose bases are sides of the base.  3. pl. (Billiards)  The game of pool in which the balls are placed in the form of a triangle at spot. [Eng.] Altitude of a pyramid (Geom.), the perpendicular distance from the vertex to the plane of the base.  -- Axis of a pyramid (Geom.), a straight line drawn from the vertex to the center of the base.  -- Earth pyramid. (Geol.) See Earth pillars, under Earth.  -- Right pyramid (Geom.) a pyramid whose axis is perpendicular to the base. 

PYRAMIDAL:  Same as Tetragonal. Pyramidal numbers (Math.), certain series of figurate numbers expressing the number of balls or points that may be arranged in the form of pyramids. Thus 1, 4, 10, 20, 35, etc., are trangular pyramidal numbers; and 1, 5, 14, 30, 55, etc., are square pyramidal numbers. 

PYRAMIDAL:  One of the carpal bones. See Cuneiform, n., 2 (b). 

PYRAMIDALLY:  Like a pyramid.  PYRAMIDIC; PYRAMIDICAL Pyr`a*mid"ic, Pyr`a*mid"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to a pyramid; having the form of a pyramid; pyramidal. " A pyramidical rock." Goldsmith. "Gold in pyramidic plenty piled." Shenstone.  -- Pyr`a*mid"ic*al*ly, adv. Pyr`a*mild"ic*al*ness, n. 

PYRAMIDION:  The small pyramid which crowns or completes an obelisk. 

PYRAMIDOID:  A solid resembling a pyramid; -- called also pyramoid. Barlow. 

PYRAMIS:  A pyramid. 

PYRAMOID:  See Pyramidoid. 

PYRARGYRITE:  Ruby silver; dark red silver ore. It is a sulphide of antimony and silver, occurring in rhombohedral crystals or massive, and is of a dark red or black color with a metallic adamantine luster.  PYRAZINE; PYRAZIN Pyr"a*zine, n. Also -zin. [Pyridine + Gr.  not +  life.] (Org. Chem.)  A feebly basic solid, C4H4N2, obtained by distilling piperazine with zinc dust, and in other ways. Also, by extension, any of various derivatives of the same. 

PYRE:  A funeral pile; a combustible heap on which the dead are burned; hence, any pile to be burnt. For nine long nights, through all the dusky air, The pyres thick flaming shot a dismal glare. Pope. 

PYRENA:  A nutlet resembling a seed, or the kernel of a drupe. Gray. 

PYRENE:  One of the less volatile hydrocarbons of coal tar, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C16H10. 

PYRENE:  Same as Pyrena. 

PYRENEAN:  Of or pertaining to the Pyrenees, a range of mountains separating France and Spain.  -- n.  The Pyrenees. Shak. 

PYRENOID:  A transparent body found in the chromatophores of certain Infusoria. 

PYRETHRIN:  A substance resembling, and isomeric with, ordinary camphor, and extracted from the essential oil of feverfew; -- called also Pyrethrum camphor. 

PYRETHRINE:  An alkaloid extracted from the root of the pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum). 

PYRETIC:  Of or pertaining to fever; febrile. 

PYRETOLOGY:  A discourse or treatise on fevers; the doctrine of fevers. Hooper. 

PYREXIA:  The febrile condition.  PYREXIAL; PYREXICAL Py*rex"i*al, Py*rex"ic*al, a. (Med.)  Of or pertaining to fever; feverish. 

PYRGOM:  A variety of pyroxene; -- called also fassaite. 

PYRHELIOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the direct heating effect of the sun's rays. 

PYRIDIC:  Related to, or formed from, pyridin or its homologues; as, the pyridic bases. 

PYRIDINE:  A nitrogenous base, C5H5N, obtained from the distillation of bone oil or coal tar, and by the decomposition of certain alkaloids, as a colorless liquid with a peculiar pungent odor. It is the nucleus of a large number of organic substances, among which several vegetable alkaloids, as nicotine and certain of the ptomaïnes, may be mentioned. See Lutidine. 

PYRIDYL:  A hypothetical radical, C5H4N, regarded as the essential residue of pyridine, and analogous to phenyl. 

PYRIFORM:  Having the form of a pear; pear-shaped. 

PYRITACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to pyrites. See Pyritic. 

PYRITE:  A common mineral of a pale brass-yellow color and brilliant metallic luster, crystallizing in the isometric system; iron pyrites; iron disulphide. Hence sable coal his massy couch extends, And stars of gold the sparkling pyrite blends. E. Darwin. 

PYRITES:  A name given to a number of metallic minerals, sulphides of iron, copper, cobalt, nickel, and tin, of a white or yellowish color.  Note: The term was originally applied to the mineral pyrite, or iron pyrites, in allusion to its giving sparks when struck with steel. Arsenical pyrites, arsenopyrite.  -- Auriferous pyrites. See under Auriferous.  -- Capillary pyrites, millerite.  -- Common pyrites, isometric iron disulphide; pyrite.  -- Hair pyrites, millerite.  -- Iron pyrites. See Pyrite.  -- Magnetic pyrites, pyrrhotite.  -- Tin pyrites, stannite.  -- White iron pyrites, orthorhombic iron disulphide; marcasite. This includes cockscomb pyrites (a variety of marcasite, named in allusion to its form), spear pyrites, etc.  -- Yellow, or Copper, pyrites, the sulphide of copper and iron; chalcopyrite.  PYRITIC; PYRITICAL Py*rit"ic, Py*rit"ic*al, a. (Min.)  Of or pertaining to pyrites; consisting of, or resembling, pyrites. 

PYRITIFEROUS:  Containing or producing pyrites. 

PYRITIZE:  To convert into pyrites. 

PYRITOHEDRAL:  Like pyrites in hemihedral form. 

PYRITOHEDRON:  The pentagonal dodecahedron, a common form of pyrite. 

PYRITOID:  Pyritohedron. [R.] 

PYRITOLOGY:  The science of blowpipe analysis. 

PYRITOUS:  Pyritic.  PYRO-; PYR- Pyro-, Pyr-. Etym: [Gr.  Combining forms designating fire or heat; specifically (Chem.), used to imply an actual or theoretical derivative by the action of heat; as in pyrophosphoric, pyrosulphuric, pyrotartaric, pyrotungstic, etc. 

PYRO:  Abbreviation of pyrogallic acid. [Colloq.] 

PYROACETIC:  Pertaining to, and designating, a substance (acetone) obtained by the distillation of the acetates. It is now called also pyroacetic ether, and formerly was called pyroacetic spirit. 

PYROACID:  An acid obtained by sybjecting another acid to the action of heat. Cf. Pyro-. 

PYROANTIMONATE:  A salt of pyroantimonic acid. 

PYROANTIMONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of antimony analogous to pyrophosphoric acid. 

PYROARSENATE:  A salt of pyroarsenic acid. 

PYROARSENIC:  Pertaining to or designating, an acid of arsenic analogous to pyrophosphoric acid. 

PYROBORATE:  A salt of pyroboric acid. 

PYROBORIC:  Pertaining to derived from, or designating, an acid, H2B4O7 (called also tetraboric acid), which is the acid ingredient of ordinary borax, and is obtained by heating boric acid. 

PYROCATECHIN:  A white crystalline substance, C6H4(OH)2, of the phenol series, found in various plants; -- so called because first obtained by distillation of gum catechu. Called also catechol, oxyphenol. etc. 

PYROCHLORE:  A niobate of calcium, cerium, and other bases, occurring usually in octahedrons of a yellowish or brownish color and resinous luster; -- so called from its becoming grass-green on being subjected to heat under the blowpipe. 

PYROCITRIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, any one of three acids obtained by the distillation of citric acid, and called respectively citraconic, itaconic, and mesaconic acid. 

PYROCOLL:  A yellow crystalline substance allied to pyrrol, obtained by the distillation of gelatin. 

PYROELECTRIC:  Pertaining to, or dependent on, pyroelectricity; receiving electric polarity when heated. 

PYROELECTRIC:  A substance which becomes electrically polar when heated, exhibiting opposite charges of statical electricity at two separate parts, especially the two extremities. 

PYROELECTRICITY:  Electricity developed by means of heat; the science which treats of electricity thus developed. 

PYROGALLATE:  A salt of pyrogallic acid; an ether of pyrogallol. 

PYROGALLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid called pyrogallol. See Pyrogallol. 

PYROGALLOL:  A phenol metameric with phloroglucin, obtained by the distillation of gallic acid as a poisonous white crystalline substance having acid properties, and hence called also pyrogallic acid. It is a strong reducer, and is used as a developer in photography and in the production of certain dyes. 

PYROGEN:  A poison separable from decomposed meat infusions, and supposed to be formed from albuminous matter through the agency of bacteria. 

PYROGENIC:  Producing heat; -- said of substances, as septic poisons, which elevate the temperature of the body and cause fever. 

PYROGENOUS:  Produced by fire; igneous. Mantell. . 

PYROGNOSTIC:  Of or pertaining to characters developed by the use of heat; pertaining to the characters of minerals when examined before the blowpipe; as, the pyrognostic characters of galena. 

PYROGNOSTICS:  The characters of a mineral observed by the use of the blowpipe, as the degree of fusibility, flame coloration, etc. 

PYROGRAPH:  A production of pyrography. 

PYROGRAPHY:  A process of printing, ornamenting, or carving, by burning with heated instruments. 

PYROGRAVURE:  Pyrography; also, a design or picture made by pyrography. 

PYROLATOR:  A fire worshiper. [R.] Southey. 

PYROLATRY:  The worship of fire. Young.  PYROLIGNEOUS; PYROLIGNIC Pyr`o*lig"ne*ous, Pyr`o*lig"nic, a. Etym: [Pyro-+ L. lignum wood: cf. F. pyroligneux.] (Old Chem.)  Pertaining to, or designating, the acid liquid obtained in the distillation of wood, consisting essentially of impure acetic acid. 

PYROLIGNITE:  A crude acetate produced by treating pyroligneous acid with a metal or basic compound; as, pyrolignite of iron (iron liquor). 

PYROLIGNOUS:  Same as Pyroligneous. 

PYROLITHIC:  Same as Pyrouric, or Cyanuric. 

PYROLOGIST:  One who is versed in, or makes a study of, pyrology. 

PYROLOGY:  That branch of physical science which treats of the properties, phenomena, or effects of heat; also, a treatise on heat. 

PYROLUSITE:  Manganese dioxide, a mineral of an iron-black or dark steel- gray color and metallic luster, usually soft. Pyrolusite parts with its oxygen at a red heat, and is extensively used in discharging the brown and green tints of glass (whence its name). 

PYROMAGNETIC:  Acting by the agency of heat and magnetism; as, a pyromagnetic machine for producing electric currents. 

PYROMALATE:  A salt of pyromalic acid. [Obs.] 

PYROMALIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called maleic acid. 

PYROMANCY:  Divination by means of fire. 

PYROMANIA:  An insane disposition to incendiarism. 

PYROMANTIC:  Of or pertaining to pyromancy. 

PYROMANTIC:  One who pretends to divine by fire. Sir T. Herbert. 

PYROMETER:  An instrument used for measuring the expansion of solid bodies by heat.  2. (Physics)  An instrument for measuring degrees of heat above those indicated by the mercurial thermometer.  Note: It is usually constructed so as to register the change which the heat to be measured produces in the length of some expansible substance, as a metallic rod, or in the intensity of a thermo- electric current.  PYROMETRIC; PYROMETRICAL Pyr`o*met"ric, Pyr`o*met"ric*al a. Etym: [Cf. F. pyrométrique.] (Physics)  Pertaining to, or obtained by, the pyrometer; as, pyrometrical instruments; pyrometrical measurements. 

PYROMETRY:  The art of measuring degrees of heat, or the expansion of bodies by heat. 

PYROMORPHITE:  Native lead phosphate with lead chloride, occurring in bright green and brown hexagonal crystals and also massive; -- so called because a fused globule crystallizes in cooling. 

PYROMORPHOUS:  Having the property of crystallizing by the agency of fire. 

PYROMUCATE:  A salt of pyromucic acid. 

PYROMUCIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of mucic acid, or by the oxidation of furfurol. 

PYRONE:  An unsaturated cyclic compound, C5H4O2, of which two varieties are known, a and g. g-pyrone is the parent substance of several natural yellow dyestuffs. 

PYRONOMICS:  The science of heat. 

PYROPE:  A variety of garnet, of a poppy or blood-red color, frequently with a tinge of orange. It is used as a gem. See the Note under Garnet. 

PYROPHANE:  A mineral which is opaque in its natural state, but is said to change its color and become transparent by heat. 

PYROPHANOUS:  Rendered transparent by heat. 

PYROPHONE:  A musical instrument in which the tones are produced by flames of hydrogen, or illuminating gas, burning in tubes of different sizes and lengths.  PYROPHORIC; PYROPHOROUS Pyr`o*phor"ic, Py*roph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Pyro- + Gr.  Light-producing; of or pertaining to pyrophorus. Pyrophoric iron (Chem.), finely reduced iron, which ignites spontaneously on contact with air. 

PYROPHORUS:  Any one of several substances or mixtures which phosphoresce or ignite spontaneously on exposure to air, as a heated mixture of alum, potash, and charcoal, or a mixture of charcoal and finely divided lead. 

PYROPHOSPHATE:  A salt of pyrophosphoric acid. 

PYROPHOSPHORIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, H4P2O7, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance. Its salts are obtained by heating the phosphates. 

PYROPHYLLITE:  A mineral, usually of a white or greenish color and pearly luster, consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of alumina. 

PYROSCOPE:  An instrument for measuring the intensity of heat radiating from a fire, or the cooling influence of bodies. It is a differential thermometer, having one bulb coated with gold or silver leaf. [R.] 

PYROSIS:  See Water brash, under Brash. 

PYROSMALITE:  A mineral, usually of a pale brown or of a gray or grayish green color, consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of iron and manganese; -- so called from the odor given off before the blowpipe. 

PYROSOME:  Any compound ascidian of the genus Pyrosoma. The pyrosomes form large hollow cylinders, sometimes two or three feet long, which swim at the surface of the sea and are very phosphorescent. 

PYROSULPHATE:  A salt of pyrosulphuric acid. 

PYROSULPHURIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid called also disulphuric acid) obtained by distillation of certain sulphates, as a colorless, thick, oily liquid, H2S2O7 resembling sulphuric acid. It is used in the solution of indigo, in the manufacture of alizarin, and in dehydration. 

PYROTARTARIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of tartaric acid. 

PYROTARTRATE:  A salt of pyrotartaric acid. 

PYROTECHNIAN:  A pyrotechnist.  PYROTECHNIC; PYROTECHNICAL Pyr`o*tech"nic, Pyr`o*tech"nic*al, a. Etym: [Pyro- + technic, technical: cf. F. pyrotechnique. See Fire, Technical.]  Of or pertaining to fireworks, or the art of forming them. Pyrotechnical sponge. See under Sponge. 

PYROTECHNICIAN:  A pyrotechnist. 

PYROTECHNICS:  The art of making fireworks; the manufacture and use of fireworks; pyrotechny. 

PYROTECHNIST:  One skilled in pyrotechny; one who manufactures fireworks. Steevens. 

PYROTHONIDE:  A kind of empyreumatic oil produced by the combustion of textures of hemp, linen, or cotton in a copper vessel, -- formerly used as a remedial agent. Dunglison. 

PYROTIC:  Caustic. See Caustic.  -- n. (Med.)  A caustic medicine. 

PYROTRITARTARIC:  Designating an acid which is more commonly called uric acid. 

PYROTUNGSTIC:  Polytungstic. See Metatungstic.  PYROURIC; PYROUERIC Pyr`o*ü"ric, a. Etym: [Pyro- + uric.] (Old Chem.)  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called cyanuric acid. See Cyanuric. 

PYROVANADIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of vanadium, analogous to pyrophosphoric acid. 

PYROXANTHIN:  A yellow crystalline hydrocardon extracted from crude wood spirit; -- called also eblanin. 

PYROXENE:  A common mineral occurring in monoclinic crystals, with a prismatic angle of nearly 90º, and also in massive forms which are often laminated. It varies in color from white to dark green and black, and includes many varieties differing in color and composition, as diopside, malacolite, salite, coccolite, augite, etc. They are all silicates of lime and magnesia with sometimes alumina and iron. Pyroxene is an essential constituent of many rocks, especially basic igneous rocks, as basalt, gabbro, etc.  Note: The pyroxene group contains pyroxene proper, also the related orthorhombic species, enstatite, bronzite, hypersthene, and various monoclinic and triclinic species, as rhodonite, etc. 

PYROXENIC:  Containing pyroxene; composed chiefly of pyroxene. 

PYROXENITE:  A rock consisting essentially of pyroxene. 

PYROXYLE:  See Pyroxylic, -yl. 

PYROXYLIC:  Derived from wood by distillation; -- formerly used in designating crude wood spirit. 

PYROXYLIN:  A substance resembling gun cotton in composition and properties, but distinct in that it is more highly nitrified and is soluble in alcohol, ether, etc.; -- called also pyroxyle. 

PYRRHIC:  Of or pertaining to a pyrrhic, or to pyrrhics; containing pyrrhic; as, a pyrrhic verse. 

PYRRHIC:  An ancient Greek martial dance, to the accompaniment of the flute, its time being very quick.  2. Etym: [L. pyrrhichius (sc. pes), Gr. pyrrhique, masc.] (Pros.)  A foot consisting of two short syllables. 

PYRRHICIST:  One two danced the pyrrhic.  PYRRHONEAN; PYRRHONIC Pyr*rho"ne*an, Pyr*rhon"ic, a. Etym: [L. Pyrrhonêus: cf. F. pyrrhonien.]  Of or pertaining to pyrrhonism. 

PYRRHONISM:  Skepticism; universal doubt. 

PYRRHONIST:  A follower of Pyrrho; a skeptic.  PYRRHOTINE; PYRRHOTITE Pyr"rho*tine, Pyr"rho*tite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)  A bronze-colored mineral, of metallic luster. It is a sulphide of iron, and is remarkable for being attracted by the magnet. Called also magnetic pyrites. 

PYRROL:  A nitrogenous base found in coal tar, bone oil, and other distillates of organic substances, and also produced synthetically as a colorless liquid, C4H5N, having on odor like that of chloroform. It is the nucleus and origin of a large number of derivatives. So called because it colors a splinter of wood moistened with hydrochloric acid a deep red. 

PYRROLINE:  A nitrogenous base, C4H7N, obtained as a colorless liquid by the reduction of pyrrol. 

PYRULA:  A genus of large marine gastropods. having a pear-shaped shell. It includes the fig-shells. See Illust. in Appendix. 

PYRURIC:  Same as Pyroüric. 

PYRUS:  A genus of rosaceous trees and shrubs having pomes for fruit. It includes the apple, crab apple, pear, chokeberry, sorb, and mountain ash. 

PYRUVIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (called also pyroracemic acid) obtained, as a liquid having a pungent odor, by the distillation of racemic acid. 

PYRUVIL:  A complex nitrogenous compound obtained by heating together pyruvic acid and urea. 

PYTHAGOREAN:  Of or pertaining to Pythagoras (a Greek philosopher, born about 582 b. c.), or his philosophy. The central thought of the Pythagorean philosophy is the idea of number, the recognition of the numerical and mathematical relations of things. Encyc. Brit. Pythagorean proposition (Geom.), the theorem that the square described upon the hypothenuse of a plane right-angled triangle is equal to the sum of the squares described upon the other two sides.  -- Pythagorean system (Astron.), the commonly received system of astronomy, first taught by Pythagoras, and afterward revived by Copernicus, whence it is also called the Copernican system.  -- Pythagorean letter. See Y. 

PYTHAGOREAN:  A follower of Pythagoras; one of the school of philosophers founded by Pythagoras. 

PYTHAGOREANISM:  The doctrines of Pythagoras or the Pythagoreans. As a philosophic school Pythagoreanism became extinct in Greece about the middle of the 4th century [B. C.]. Encyc. Brit.  PYTHAGORIC; PYTHAGORICAL Pyth`a*gor"ic, Pyth`a*gor"ic*al, a.Etym: [L. Pythagoricus, Gr. pythagorique.]  See Pythagorean, a. 

PYTHAGORISM:  The doctrines taught by Pythagoras.  Note: Pythagoras made numbers the basis of his philosophical system, as well physical as metaphysical. The doctrine of the transmigration of souls (metempsychosis) is associated closely with name of Pythagoras. 

PYTHAGORIZE:  To speculate after the manner of Pythagoras. 

PYTHIAD:  The period intervening between one celebration of the Pythian games and the next. 

PYTHIAN:  Of or pertaining to Delphi, to the temple of Apollo, or to the priestess of Apollo, who delivered oracles at Delphi. Pythian games (Gr. Antiq.), one of the four great national festivals of ancient Greece, celebrated near Delphi, in honor of Apollo, the conqueror of the dragon Python, at first once in eight years, afterward once in four. 

PYTHOCENIC:  Producing decomposition, as diseases which are supposed to be accompanied or caused by decomposition. 

PYTHON:  Any species of very large snakes of the genus Python, and allied genera, of the family Pythonidæ. They are nearly allied to the boas. Called also rock snake.  Note: The pythons have small pelvic bones, or anal spurs, two rows of subcaudal scales, and pitted labials. They are found in Africa, Asia, and the East Indies.  2. A diviner by spirits. "[Manasses] observed omens, and appointed pythons." 4 Kings xxi. 6 (Douay version). 

PYTHONESS:  The priestess who gave oracular answers at Delphi in Greece.  2. Any woman supposed to have a spirit of divination; a sort of witch. Bp. Hall. 

PYTHONIC:  Prophetic; oracular; pretending to foretell events. 

PYTHONISM:  The art of predicting events after the manner of the priestess of Apollo at Delphi; equivocal prophesying. 

PYTHONIST:  A conjurer; a diviner. 

PYTHONOMORPHA:  Same as Mosasauria. 

PYURIA:  A morbid condition in which pus is discharged in the urine. 

PYX:  The box, case, vase, or tabernacle, in which the host is reserved.  2. A box used in the British mint as a place of deposit for certain sample coins taken for a trial of the weight and fineness of metal before it is sent from the mint. Mushet.  3. (Naut.)  The box in which the compass is suspended; the binnacle. Weale.  4. (Anat.)  Same as Pyxis. Pyx cloth (R. C. Ch., a veil of silk or lace covering the pyx. Trial of the pyx, the annual testing, in the English mint, of the standard of gold and silver coins. Encyc. Brit. 

PYX:  To test as to weight and fineness, as the coins deposited in the pyx. [Eng.] Mushet. 

PYXIDATE:  Having a pyxidium. 

PYXIE:  Same as Pixy. 

PYXIS:  A pyxidium.  3. (Anat.)  The acetabulum. See Acetabulum, 2. 

Q:  , the seventeenth letter of the English alphabet, has but one sound (that of k), and is always followed by u, the two letters together being sounded like kw, except in some words in which the u is silent. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 249. Q is not found in Anglo-Saxon, cw being used instead of qu; as in cwic, quick; cwen, queen. The name (ku) is from the French ku, which is from the Latin name of the same letter; its form is from the Latin, which derived it, through a Greek alphabet, from the Phoenician, the ultimate origin being Egyptian. Etymologically, q or qu is most nearly related to a (ch, tch), p, q, and wh; as in cud, quid, L. equus, ecus, horse, Gr. equine, hippic; L. quod which, E. what; L. aquila, E. eaqle; E. kitchen, OE. kichene, AS. cycene, L. coquina. 

QUA:  In so far as; in the capacity or character of; as. It is with Shelley's biographers qua biographers that we have to deal. London Spectator. 

QUAB:  An unfledged bird; hence, something immature or unfinished. Ford. 

QUAB:  See Quob, v. i.  QUA-BIRD Qua"-bird`, n. (Zoöl.)  The American night heron. See under Night. 

QUACHA:  The quagga. 

QUACK:  A boastful pretender to medical skill; an empiric; an ignorant practitioner.  3. Hence, one who boastfully pretends to skill or knowledge of any kind not possessed; a charlatan. Quacks political; quacks scientific, academical. Carlyle. 

QUACK:  Pertaining to or characterized by, boasting and pretension; used by quacks; pretending to cure diseases; as, a quack medicine; a quack doctor. 

QUACKERY:  The acts, arts, or boastful pretensions of a quack; false pretensions to any art; empiricism. Carlyle.  QUACK GRASS Quack" grass`. (Bot.)  See Quitch grass. 

QUACKISH:  Like a quack; boasting; characterized by quackery. Burke. 

QUACKISM:  Quackery. Carlyle. 

QUACKLE:  To suffocate; to choke. [Prov. Eng.] 

QUACKSALVER:  One who boasts of his skill in medicines and salves, or of the efficacy of his prescriptions; a charlatan; a quack; a mountebank. [Obs.] Burton.  QUAD; QUADE Quad, Quade, a. Etym: [Akin to AS. cwæd, cwead, dung, evil, G. kot, dung, OHG. quat.]  Evil; bad; baffling; as, a quade wind. [Obs.] Sooth play, quad play, as the Fleming saith. Chaucer. 

QUAD:  A quadrat. 

QUAD:  A quadrangle; hence, a prison. [Cant or Slang] 

QUADRABLE:  That may be sqyared, or reduced to an equivalent square; -- said of a surface when the area limited by a curve can be exactly found, and expressed in a finite number of algebraic terms. 

QUADRAGENARIOUS:  Consisting of forty; forty years old. 

QUADRAGENE:  An indulgence of forty days, corresponding to the forty days of ancient canonical penance. 

QUADRAGESIMA:  The forty days of fast preceding Easter; Lent. Quadragesima Sunday, the first Sunday in Lent, about forty days before Easter. 

QUADRAGESIMAL:  Belonging to Lent; used in Lent; Lenten. 

QUADRAGESIMALS:  Offerings formerly made to the mother church of a diocese on Mid-Lent Sunday. 

QUADRANGLE:  A plane figure having four angles, and consequently four sides; any figure having four angles.  2. A square or quadrangular space or inclosure, such a space or court surrounded by buildings, esp. such a court in a college or public school in England. 

QUADRANGULAR:  Having four angles, and consequently four sides; tetragonal.  -- Quad*ran"gu*lar*ly, adv. 

QUADRANS:  A fourth part of the coin called an as. See 3d As, 2.  2. The fourth of a penny; a farthing. See Cur. 

QUADRANT:  The quarter of a circle, or of the circumference of a circle, an arc of 90º, or one subtending a right angle at the center.  3. (Anal. (Geom.)  One of the four parts into which a plane is divided by the coördinate axes. The upper right-hand part is the first quadrant; the upper left-hand part the second; the lower left-hand part the third; and the lower right-hand part the fourth quadrant.  4. An instrument for measuring altitudes, variously constructed and mounted for different specific uses in astronomy, surveying, gunnery, etc., consisting commonly of a graduated arc of 90º, with an index or vernier, and either plain or telescopic sights, and usually having a plumb line or spirit level for fixing the vertical or horizontal direction. Gunner's quadrant, an instrument consisting of a graduated limb, with a plumb line or spirit level, and an arm by which it is applied to a cannon or mortar in adjusting it to the elevation required for attaining the desired range.  -- Gunter's quadrant. See Gunter's quadrant, in the Vocabulary. Hadley's quadrant, a hand instrument used chiefly at sea to measure the altitude of the sun or other celestial body in ascertaining the vessel's position. It consists of a frame in the form of an octant having a graduated scale upon its arc, and an index arm, or alidade pivoted at its apex. Mirrors, called the index glass and the horizon glass, are fixed one upon the index arm and the other upon one side of the frame, respectively. When the instrument is held upright, the index arm may be swung so that the index glass will reflect an image of the sun upon the horizon glass, and when the reflected image of the sun coincides, to the observer's eye, with the horizon as seen directly through an opening at the side of the horizon glass, the index shows the sun's altitude upon the scale; -- more properly, but less commonly, called an octant.  -- Quadrant of altitude, an appendage of the artificial globe, consisting of a slip of brass of the length of a quadrant of one of the great circles of the globe, and graduated. It may be fitted to the meridian, and being movable round to all points of the horizon, serves as a scale in measuring altitudes, azimuths, etc. 

QUADRANTAL:  Of or pertaining to a quadrant; also, included in the fourth part of a circle; as, quadrantal space. Quadrantal triangle, a spherical triangle having one side equal to a quadrant or arc of 90º.  -- Quadrantal versor, a versor that expresses rotation through one right angle. 

QUADRANTAL:  A cubical vessel containing a Roman cubic foot, each side being a Roman square foot; -- used as a measure.  2. A cube. [R.] 

QUADRAT:  A block of type metal lower than the letters, -- used in spacing and in blank lines. [Abbrev. quad.]  2. An old instrument used for taking altitudes; -- called also geometrical square, and line of shadows. 

QUADRATE:  A plane surface with four equal sides and four right angles; a square; hence, figuratively, anything having the outline of a square. At which command, the powers militant That stood for heaven, in mighty quadrate joined. Milton.  2. (Astrol.)  An aspect of the heavenly bodies in which they are distant from each other 90º, or the quarter of a circle; quartile. See the Note under Aspect, 6.  3. (Anat.)  The quadrate bone. 

QUADRATE:  To square; to agree; to suit; to correspond; -- followed by with. [Archaic] The objections of these speculatists of its forms do not quadrate with their theories. Burke. 

QUADRATE:  To adjust (a gun) on its carriage; also, to train (a gun) for horizontal firing. 

QUADRATIC:  Tetragonal.  3. (Alg.)  Pertaining to terms of the second degree; as, a quadratic equation, in which the highest power of the unknown quantity is a square. 

QUADRATICS:  That branch of algebra which treats of quadratic equations. 

QUADRATOJUGAL:  The quadratojugal bone. Quadratojugal bone (Anat.), a bone at the base of the lower jaw in many animals. 

QUADRATRIX:  A curve made use of in the quadrature of other curves; as the quadratrix, of Dinostratus, or of Tschirnhausen. 

QUADRATURE:  The act of squaring; the finding of a square having the same area as some given curvilinear figure; as, the quadrature of a circle; the operation of finding an expression for the area of a figure bounded wholly or in part by a curved line, as by a curve, two ordinates, and the axis of abscissas.  2. A quadrate; a square. Milton.  3. (Integral Calculus)  The integral used in obtaining the area bounded by a curve; hence, the definite integral of the product of any function of one variable into the differential of that variable.  4. (Astron.)  The position of one heavenly body in respect to another when distant from it 90º, or a quarter of a circle, as the moon when at an equal distance from the points of conjunction and opposition. Quadrature of the moon (Astron.), the position of the moon when one half of the disk is illuminated.  -- Quadrature of an orbit (Astron.), a point in an orbit which is at either extremity of the latus rectum drawn through the empty focus of the orbit. 

QUADRENNIALLY:  Once in four years. 

QUADRENNIUM:  A space or period of four years.  QUADRI- Quad"ri-. Etym: [L., from quattuor four. See Four.]  A combining form meaning four, four times, fourfold; as, quadricapsular, having four capsules. 

QUADRIBASIC:  Same as Tetrabasic. 

QUADRIBLE:  Quadrable. [R.] 

QUADRIC:  Of or pertaining to the second degree. 

QUADRICAPSULAR:  Having four capsules. 

QUADRICEPS:  The great extensor muscle of the knee, divided above into four parts which unite in a single tendon at the knee. 

QUADRICIPITAL:  Of or pertaining to the quadriceps. 

QUADRICORN:  Any quadricornous animal. 

QUADRICORNOUS:  Having four horns, or hornlike organs; as, a quadricornous beetle. 

QUADRICOSTATE:  Having four ribs. 

QUADRIDENTATE:  Having four teeth; as, a quadridentate leaf. 

QUADRIENNIAL:  Same as Quadrennial. 

QUADRIFARIOUS:  Arranged in four rows or ranks; as, quadrifarious leaves. Loudon. 

QUADRIFID:  Divided, or deeply cleft, into four parts; as, a quadrifid perianth; a quadrifid leaf.  QUADRIFOIL; QUADRIFOLIATE Quad"ri*foil, Quad`ri*fo"li*ate, a. Etym: [Quadri- + L. folium leaf.] (Bot.)  Four-leaved; having the leaves in whorls of four. 

QUADRIFURCATED:  Having four forks, or branches. 

QUADRIGA:  A car or chariot drawn by four horses abreast.  QUADRIGEMINAL; QUADRIGEMINOUS Quad`ri*gem"i*nal, Quad`ri*gem"i*nous, a. Etym: [Quadri- + L. gemini twins.]  Fourfold; having four similar parts, or two pairs of similar parts. Quadrigeminal bodies (Anat.), two pairs of lobes, or elevations, on the dorsal side of the midbrain of most mammals; the optic lobes. The anterior pair are called the nates, and the posterior the testes. 

QUADRIGENARIOUS:  Consisting of four hundred. 

QUADRIJUGATE:  Same as Quadrijugous. 

QUADRIJUGOUS:  Pinnate, with four pairs of leaflets; as, a quadrijugous leaf. 

QUADRILATERAL:  Having four sides, and consequently four angles; quadrangular. 

QUADRILATERAL:  A plane figure having four sides, and consequently four angles; a quadrangular figure; any figure formed by four lines.  2. An area defended by four fortresses supporting each other; as, the Venetian quadrilateral, comprising Mantua, Peschiera, Verona, and Legnano. Complete quadrilateral (Geom.), the figure made up of the six straight lines that can be drawn through four points, A., B, C, I, the lines being supposed to be produced indefinitely. 

QUADRILATERALNESS:  The property of being quadrilateral. 

QUADRILITERAL:  Consisting of four letters. 

QUADRILLE:  A game played by four persons with forty cards, being the remainder of an ordinary pack after the tens, nines, and eights are discarded. Hoyle. 

QUADRILLION:  According to the French notation, which is followed also upon the Continent and in the United States, a unit with fifteen ciphers annexed; according to the English notation, the number produced by involving a million to the fourth power, or the number represented by a unit with twenty-four ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration.  QUADRILOBATE; QUADRILOBED Quad`ri*lo"bate, Quad`ri*lobed, a. Etym: [Quadri- + lobe: cf. F. quadrilobé.]  Having four lobes; as, a quadrilobate leaf. 

QUADRILOCULAR:  Having four cells, or cavities; as, a quadrilocular heart. 

QUADRIN:  A small piece of money, in value about a farthing, or a half cent. [Obs.] 

QUADRINODAL:  Possessing four nodes; as, quadrinodal curves. 

QUADRINOMIAL:  A polynomial of four terms connected by the signs plus or minus. 

QUADRINOMICAL:  Quadrinomial. 

QUADRINOMINAL:  Quadrinomial. Sir W. R. Hamilton. 

QUADRIPARTITE:  Divided into four parts. 

QUADRIPARTITELY:  In four parts. 

QUADRIPARTITION:  A division or distribution by four, or into four parts; also, a taking the fourth part of any quantity or number. 

QUADRIPENNATE:  Having four wings; -- said of insects. 

QUADRIPHYLLOUS:  Having four leaves; quadrifoliate. 

QUADRIREME:  A galley with four banks of oars or rowers. 

QUADRISECTION:  A subdivision into four parts. 

QUADRISULCATE:  Having four hoofs; as, a quadrisulcate foot; a quadrisulcate animal.  QUADRISYLLABIC; QUADRI-SYLLABICAL Quad`ri*syl*lab"ic, Quad`ri-syl*lab"ic*al,  Having four syllables; of or pertaining to quadrisyllables; as, a quadrisyllabic word. 

QUADRISYLLABLE:  A word consisting of four syllables. De Quincey. 

QUADRIVALENCE:  The quality or state of being quadrivalent; tetravalence. 

QUADRIVALENT:  Having a valence of four; capable of combining with, being replaced by, or compared with, four monad atoms; tetravalent; -- said of certain atoms and radicals; thus, carbon and silicon are quadrivalent elements. 

QUADRIVALVE:  Dehiscent into four similar parts; four-valved; as, a quadrivalve pericarp. 

QUADRIVALVE:  A door, shutter, or the like, having four folds. 

QUADRIVALVULAR:  Having four valves; quadrivalve. 

QUADRIVIAL:  Having four ways meeting in a point. B. Jonson. 

QUADRIVIAL:  One of the four "liberal arts" making up the quadrivium. 

QUADRIVIUM:  The four "liberal arts," arithmetic, music, geometry, and astronomy; -- so called by the schoolmen. See Trivium. 

QUADROON:  The offspring of a mulatto and a white person; a person quarter-blooded. [Written also quarteron, quarteroon, and quateron.] 

QUADROXIDE:  A tetroxide. [R.] 

QUADRUMANA:  A division of the Primates comprising the apes and monkeys; -- so called because the hind foot is usually prehensile, and the great toe opposable somewhat like a thumb. Formerly the Quadrumana were considered an order distinct from the Bimana, which last included man alone. 

QUADRUMANE:  One of the Quadrumana. 

QUADRUMANOUS:  Having four hands; of or pertaining to the Quadrumana. 

QUADRUPED:  Having four feet. 

QUADRUPED:  An animal having four feet, as most mammals and reptiles; -- often restricted to the mammals. 

QUADRUPEDAL:  Having four feet; of or pertaining to a quadruped. 

QUADRUPLANE:  An aëroplane with four superposed main supporting surfaces. 

QUADRUPLE:  Fourfold; as, to make quadruple restitution; a quadruple alliance. Quadruple time (Mus.), that in which each measure is divided into four equal parts. 

QUADRUPLE:  four times the sum or number; a fourfold amount; as, to receive to quadruple of the amount in damages. 

QUADRUPLE:  To multiply by four; to increase fourfold; to double; to double twice. A. Smith. 

QUADRUPLE:  To be multiplied by four; to increase fourfold; to become four times as much. 

QUADRUPLEX:  Fourfold; folded or doubled twice. Quadruplex system (Electric Telegraph), a system by which four messages, two in each direction, may be sent simultaneously over the wire. 

QUADRUPLICATE:  To make fourfold; to double twice; to quadruple. 

QUADRUPLICATE:  Raised to the fourth power. [R.] 

QUADRUPLICATION:  The act of making fourfold; a taking four times the simple sum or amount. 

QUADRUPLY:  To a fourfold quantity; so as to be, or cause to be, quadruple; as, to be quadruply recompensed. 

QUAERE:  Inquire; question; see; -- used to signify doubt or to suggest investigation. 

QUAESTOR:  Same as Questor. 

QUAFF:  To drink with relish; to drink copiously of; to swallow in large draughts. "Quaffed off the muscadel." Shak. They eat, they drink, and in communion sweet Quaff immortality and joy. Milton. 

QUAFF:  To drink largely or luxuriously. Twelve days the gods their solemn revels keep, And quaff with blameless Ethiops in the deep. Dryden. 

QUAFFER:  One who quaffs, or drinks largely. 

QUAG:  A quagmire. [R.] "Crooked or straight, through quags or thorny dells." Cowper. 

QUAGGA:  A South African wild ass (Equus, or Hippotigris, quagga). The upper parts are reddish brown, becoming paler behind and behind and beneath, with dark stripes on the face, neck, and fore part of the body. 

QUAGGY:  Of the nature of a quagmire; yielding or trembling under the foot, as soft, wet earth; spongy; boggy. "O'er the watery strath, or quaggy moss." Collins. 

QUAGMIRE:  Soft, wet, miry land, which shakes or yields under the feet. "A spot surrounded by quagmires, which rendered it difficult of access." Palfrey.  Syn.  -- Morass; marsh; bog; swamp; fen; slough.  QUAHOG; QUAHAUG Qua"hog, Qua"haug, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. Narragansett Indian poquaûhock.] (Zoöl.)  An American market clam (Venus mercenaria). It is sold in large quantities, and is highly valued as food. Called also round clam, and hard clam.  Note: The name is also applied to other allied species, as Venus Mortoni of the Gulf of Mexico.  QUAIGH; QUAICH Quaigh, Quaich, n. Etym: [Gael.cuach. Cf. Quaff.]  A small shallow cup or drinking vessel. [Scot.] [Written also quegh.] 

QUAIL:  To cause to fail in spirit or power; to quell; to crush; to subdue. [Obs.] Spenser. 

QUAIL:  To curdle; to coagulate, as milk. [Obs.] Holland. 

QUAIL:  Any gallinaceous bird belonging to Coturnix and several allied genera of the Old World, especially the common European quail (C. communis), the rain quail (C. Coromandelica) of India, the stubble quail (C. pectoralis), and the Australian swamp quail (Synoicus australis).  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several American partridges belonging to Colinus, Callipepla, and allied genera, especially the bobwhite (called Virginia quail, and Maryland quail), and the California quail (Calipepla Californica).  3. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of Turnix and allied genera, native of the Old World, as the Australian painted quail (Turnix varius). See Turnix.  4. A prostitute; -- so called because the quail was thought to be a very amorous bird.[Obs.] Shak. Bustard quail (Zoöl.), a small Asiatic quail-like bird of the genus Turnix, as T. taigoor, a black-breasted species, and the hill bustard quail (T. ocellatus). See Turnix.  -- Button quail (Zoöl.), one of several small Asiatic species of Turnix, as T. Sykesii, which is said to be the smallest game bird of India.  -- Mountain quail. See under Mountain.  -- Quail call, a call or pipe for alluring quails into a net or within range.  -- Quail dove (Zoöl.), any one of several American ground pigeons belonging to Geotrygon and allied genera.  -- Quail hawk (Zoöl.), the New Zealand sparrow hawk (Hieracidea Novæ-Hollandiæ).  -- Quail pipe. See Quail call, above.  -- Quail snipe (Zoöl.), the dowitcher, or red-breasted snipe; -- called also robin snipe, and brown snipe.  -- Sea quail (Zoöl.), the turnstone. [Local, U. S.] 

QUAILY:  The upland plover. [Canadian] 

QUAINTLY:  In a quaint manner. Shak. 

QUAINTNESS:  The quality of being quaint. Pope. 

QUAIR:  A quire; a book. [Obs.] " The king's quhair." James I. (of Scotland). 

QUAKE:  To cause to quake. [Obs.] Shak. 

QUAKE:  A tremulous agitation; a quick vibratory movement; a shudder; a quivering. 

QUAKERESS:  A woman who is a member of the Society of Friends. 

QUAKERISH:  Like or pertaining to a Quaker; Quakerlike. 

QUAKERISM:  The peculiar character, manners, tenets, etc., of the Quakers. 

QUAKERLIKE:  Like a Quaker. 

QUAKERLY:  Resembling Quakers; Quakerlike; Quakerish. Macaulay. 

QUAKERY:  Quakerism. [Obs.] Hallywell. 

QUAKETAIL:  A wagtail. 

QUAKINESS:  The state of being quaky; liability to quake. 

QUAKING:  a. & n. from Quake, v. Quaking aspen (Bot.), an American species of poplar (Populus tremuloides), the leaves of which tremble in the lightest breeze. It much resembles the European aspen. See Aspen.  -- Quaking bog, a bog of forming peat so saturated with water that it shakes when trodden upon.  -- Quaking grass. (Bot.) (a) One of several grasses of the genus Briza, having slender-stalked and pendulous ovate spikelets, which quake and rattle in the wind. Briza maxima is the large quaking grass; B. media and B. minor are the smaller kinds. (b) Rattlesnake grass (Glyceria Canadensis). 

QUAKINGLY:  In a quaking manner; fearfully. Sir P. Sidney. 

QUAKY:  Shaky, or tremulous; quaking. 

QUALIFIABLE:  Capable of being qualified; abatable; modifiable. Barrow. 

QUALIFICATIVE:  That which qualifies, modifies, or restricts; a qualifying term or statement. How many qualificatives, correctives, and restrictives he inserteth in this relation. Fuller. 

QUALIFICATOR:  An officer whose business it is to examine and prepare causes for trial in the ecclesiastical courts. 

QUALIFIEDLY:  In the way of qualification; with modification or qualification. 

QUALIFIEDNESS:  The state of being qualified. 

QUALIFIER:  , One who, or that which, qualifies; that which modifies, reduces, tempers or restrains. 

QUALITATIVE:  Relating to quality; having the character of quality.  -- Qual"i*ta*tive*ly, adv. Qualitative analysis (Chem.), analysis which merely determines the constituents of a substance without any regard to the quantity of each ingredient; -- contrasted with quantitative analysis. 

QUALITIED:  Furnished with qualities; endowed. [Obs.] "He was well qualitied." Chapman. 

QUALMISH:  Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea or sickly languor; inclined to vomit. Shak.  -- Qualm"ish*ly, adv.  -- Qualm"ish*ness, n. 

QUAMASH:  See Camass. 

QUAMOCLIT:  Formerly, a genus of plants including the cypress vine (Quamoclit vulgaris, now called Ipomoea Quamoclit). The genus is now merged in Ipomoea. 

QUANDARY:  A state of difficulty or perplexity; doubt; uncertainty. 

QUANDARY:  To bring into a state of uncertainty, perplexity, or difficulty. [Obs.] Otway. 

QUANDONG:  The edible drupaceous fruit of an Australian tree (Fusanus acuminatus) of the Sandalwood family; -- called also quandang. 

QUANDY:  The old squaw. [Local, U. S.] 

QUANNET:  A flat file having the handle at one side, so as to be used like a plane. 

QUANT:  A punting pole with a broad flange near the end to prevent it from sinking into the mud; a setting pole. 

QUANTIC:  A homogeneous algebraic function of two or more variables, in general containing only positive integral powers of the variables, and called quadric, cubic, quartic, etc., according as it is of the second, third, fourth, fifth, or a higher degree. These are further called binary, ternary, quaternary, etc., according as they contain two, three, four, or more variables; thus, the quantic is a binary cubic. 

QUANTIFICATION:  Modification by a reference to quantity; the introduction of the element of quantity. The quantification of the predicate belongs in part to Sir William Hamilton; viz., in its extension to negative propositions. De Quincey. 

QUANTIFY:  To modify or qualify with respect to quantity; to fix or express the quantity of; to rate. 

QUANTITATIVE:  Relating to quantity.  -- Quan"ti*ta*tive*ly, adv. Quantitative analysis (Chem.), analysis which determines the amount or quantity of each ingredient of a substance, by weight or by volume; -- contrasted with qualitative analysis. 

QUANTITIVE:  Estimable according to quantity; quantitative. Sir K. Digby. 

QUANTITIVELY:  So as to be measurable by quantity; quantitatively. 

QUANTIVALENCE:  Valence. [Archaic] 

QUANTIVALENT:  Of or pertaining to quantivalence. [Archaic] 

QUANTUM:  A definite portion of a manifoldness, limited by a mark or by a boundary. W. K. Clifford. Quantum meruit ( Etym: [L., as much as he merited] (Law), a count in an action grounded on a promise that the defendant would pay to the plaintiff for his service as much as he should deserve.  -- Quantum sufficit (, or Quantum suff. Etym: [L., as much suffices] (Med.), a sufficient quantity.  -- Quantum valebat ( Etym: [L., as much at it was worth] (Law), a count in an action to recover of the defendant, for goods sold, as much as they were worth. Blackstone. 

QUAP:  To quaver. [Obs.] See Quob. 

QUAQUAVERSAL:  Dipping toward all points of the compass round a center, as beds of lava round a crater. 

QUAR:  A quarry. [Prov. Eng.] B. Jonson. 

QUARANTINE:  The period of forty days during which the widow had the privilege of remaining in the mansion house of which her husband died seized. Quarantine flag, a yellow flag hoisted at the fore of a vessel or hung from a building, to give warning of an infectious disease; -- called also the yellow jack, and yellow flag. 

QUARANTINE:  To compel to remain at a distance, or in a given place, without intercourse, when suspected of having contagious disease; to put under, or in, quarantine. 

QUARL:  A medusa, or jellyfish. [R.] The jellied quarl that flings At once a thousand streaming stings. J. R. Drake. 

QUARREL:  Any small square or quadrangular member; as: (a) A square of glass, esp. when set diagonally. (b) A small opening in window tracery, of which the cusps, etc., make the form nearly square. (c) A square or lozenge-shaped paving tile.  3. A glazier's diamond. Simmonds.  4. A four-sided cutting tool or chisel having a diamond-shaped end. 

QUARREL:  One who quarrels or wrangles; one who is quarrelsome. Shak. 

QUARRELET:  A little quarrel. See 1st Quarrel, 2. [Obs.] "Quarrelets of pearl [teeth]." Herrick. 

QUARRELING:  Engaged in a quarrel; apt or disposed to quarrel; as, quarreling factions; a quarreling mood.  -- Quar"rel*ing*ly, adv. 

QUARRELLOUS:  Quarrelsome. [Obs.] [Written also quarrellous.] Shak. 

QUARRELSOME:  Apt or disposed to quarrel; given to brawls and contention; easily irritated or provoked to contest; irascible; choleric.  Syn.  -- Pugnacious; irritable; irascible; brawling; choleric; fiery; petulant.  -- Quar"rel*some*ly, adv.  -- Quar"rel*some*ness, n. 

QUARRIED:  Provided with prey. Now I am bravely quarried. Beau. & Fl. 

QUARRIER:  A worker in a stone quarry. 

QUARRY:  Same as 1st Quarrel. [Obs.] Fairfax. 

QUARRY:  Quadrate; square. [Obs.] 

QUARRY:  To secure prey; to prey, as a vulture or harpy. L'Estrange. 

QUARRY:  A place, cavern, or pit where stone is taken from the rock or ledge, or dug from the earth, for building or other purposes; a stone pit. See 5th Mine (a). 

QUARRY:  To dig or take from a quarry; as, to quarry marble.  QUARRY-FACED Quar"ry-faced`, a. (Stone Masonry)  Having a face left as it comes from the quarry and not smoothed with the chisel or point; -- said of stones.  QUARRY-MAN Quar"ry-man, n.; pl. Quarrymen (.  A man who is engaged in quarrying stones; a quarrier. 

QUART:  The fourth part; a quarter; hence, a region of the earth. [Obs.] Camber did possess the western quart. Spenser. 

QUART:  In cards, four successive cards of the same suit. Cf. Tierce, 4. Hoyle. 

QUARTAN:  Of or pertaining to the fourth; occurring every fourth day, reckoning inclusively; as, a quartan ague, or fever. 

QUARTAN:  An intermittent fever which returns every fourth day, reckoning inclusively, that is, one in which the interval between paroxysms is two days.  2. A measure, the fourth part of some other measure. 

QUARTANE:  Butane, each molecule of which has four carbon atoms. 

QUARTATION:  The act, process, or result (in the process of parting) of alloying a button of nearly pure gold with enough silver to reduce the fineness so as to allow acids to attack and remove all metals except the gold; -- called also inquartation. Compare Parting. 

QUARTE:  Same as 2d Carte. 

QUARTENE:  Same as Butylene. 

QUARTENYLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acrylic acid series, metameric with crotonic acid, and obtained as a colorless liquid; -- so called from having four carbon atoms in the molecule. Called also isocrotonic acid. 

QUARTER:  The encampment on one of the principal passages round a place besieged, to prevent relief and intercept convoys. (i) (Naut.) The after-part of a vessel's side, generally corresponding in extent with the quarter-deck; also, the part of the yardarm outside of the slings. (j) (Her.) One of the divisions of an escutcheon when it is divided into four portions by a horizontal and a perpendicular line meeting in the fess point.  Note: When two coats of arms are united upon one escutcheon, as in case of marriage, the first and fourth quarters display one shield, the second and third the other. See Quarter, v. t., 5. (k) One of the four parts into which the horizon is regarded as divided; a cardinal point; a direction' principal division; a region; a territory. Scouts each coast light-armed scour, Each quarter, to descry the distant foe. Milton.  (l) A division of a town, city, or county; a particular district; a locality; as, the Latin quarter in Paris. (m) (Arch.) A small upright timber post, used in partitions; -- in the United States more commonly called stud. (n) (Naut.) The fourth part of the distance from one point of the compass to another, being the fourth part of 11° 15', that is, about 2° 49'; -- called also quarter point.  2. Proper station; specific place; assigned position; special location. Swift to their several quarters hasted then The cumbrous elements. Milton. Hence, specifically: (a) (Naut.) A station at which officers and men are posted in battle; -- usually in the plural. (b) Place of lodging or temporary residence; shelter; entertainment; -- usually in the plural. The banter turned as to what quarters each would find. W. Irving. (c) pl. (Mil.)  A station or encampment occupied by troops; a place of lodging for soldiers or officers; as, winter quarters. (d) Treatment shown by an enemy; mercy; especially, the act of sparing the life a conquered enemy; a refraining from pushing one's advantage to extremes. He magnified his own clemency, now they were at his mercy, to offer them quarter for their lives. Clarendon. Cocks and lambs . . . at the mercy of cats and wolves . . . must never expect better quarter. L'Estrange.  3. Friendship; amity; concord. [Obs.] To keep quarter, to keep one's proper place, and so be on good terms with another. [Obs.] In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom. Shak. I knew two that were competitors for the secretary's place, . . . and yet kept good quarter between themselves. Bacon. False quarter, a cleft in the quarter of a horse's foot.  -- Fifth quarter, the hide and fat; -- a butcher's term.  -- On the quarter (Naut.), in a direction between abeam and astern; opposite, or nearly opposite, a vessel's quarter.  -- Quarter aspect. (Astrol.) Same as Quadrate.  -- Quarter back (Football), the player who has position next behind center rush, and receives the ball on the snap back.  -- Quarter badge (Naut.), an ornament on the side of a vessel near, the stern. Mar. Dict.  -- Quarter bill (Naut.), a list specifying the different stations to be taken by the officers and crew in time of action, and the names of the men assigned to each.  -- Quarter block (Naut.), a block fitted under the quarters of a yard on each side of the slings, through which the clew lines and sheets are reeved. R. H. Dana, Jr.  -- Quarter boat (Naut.), a boat hung at a vessel's quarter.  -- Quarter cloths (Naut.), long pieces of painted canvas, used to cover the quarter netting.  -- Quarter day, a day regarded as terminating a quarter of the year; hence, one on which any payment, especially rent, becomes due. In matters influenced by United States statutes, quarter days are the first days of January, April, July, and October. In New York and many other places, as between landlord and tenant, they are the first days of May, August, November, and February. The quarter days usually recognized in England are 25th of March (Lady Day), the 24th of June (Midsummer Day), the 29th of September (Michaelmas Day), and the 25th of December (Christmas Day).  -- Quarter face, in fine arts, portrait painting, etc., a face turned away so that but one quarter is visible.  -- Quarter gallery (Naut.), a balcony on the quarter of a ship. See Gallery, 4.  -- Quarter gunner (Naut.), a petty officer who assists the gunner.  -- Quarter look, a side glance. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  -- Quarter nettings (Naut.), hammock nettings along the quarter rails.  -- Quarter note (Mus.), a note equal in duration to half a minim or a fourth of semibreve; a crochet.  -- Quarter pieces (Naut.), several pieces of timber at the after- part of the quarter gallery, near the taffrail. Totten.  -- Quarter point. (Naut.) See Quarter, n., 1 (n).  -- Quarter railing, or Quarter rails (Naut.), narrow molded planks reaching from the top of the stern to the gangway, serving as a fence to the quarter-deck.  -- Quarter sessions (Eng. Law), a general court of criminal jurisdiction held quarterly by the justices of peace in counties and by the recorders in boroughs.  -- Quarter square (Math.), the fourth part of the square of a number. Tables of quarter squares have been devised to save labor in multiplying numbers.  -- Quarter turn, Quarter turn belt (Mach.), an arrangement in which a belt transmits motion between two shafts which are at right angles with each other.  -- Quarter watch (Naut.), a subdivision of the full watch (one fourth of the crew) on a man-of- war.  -- To give, or show, quarter (Mil.), to accept as prisoner, on submission in battle; to forbear to kill, as a vanquished enemy.  -- To keep quarter. See Quarter, n., 3. 

QUARTER:  To arrange (different coats of arms) upon one escutcheon, as when a man inherits from both father and mother the right to bear arms.  Note: When only two coats of arms are so combined they are arranged in four compartments. See Quarter, n., 1 (f). 

QUARTER:  To lodge; to have a temporary residence. 

QUARTER:  To drive a carriage so as to prevent the wheels from going into the ruts, or so that a rut shall be between the wheels. Every creature that met us would rely on us for quartering. De Quincey. 

QUARTERAGE:  A quarterly allowance.  QUARTER-DECK Quar"ter-deck`, n. (Naut.)  That part of the upper deck abaft the mainmast, including the poop deck when there is one.  Note: The quarter-deck is reserved as a promenade for the officers and (in passenger vessels) for the cabin passengers. 

QUARTERFOIL:  An ornamental foliation having four lobes, or foils. 

QUARTERHUNG:  Having trunnions the axes of which lie below the bore; -- said of a cannon. 

QUARTERING:  Coming from a point well abaft the beam, but not directly astern; -- said of waves or any moving object.  2. (Mach.)  At right angles, as the cranks of a locomotive, which are in planes forming a right angle with each other. 

QUARTERING:  A series of quarters, or small upright posts. See Quarter, n., 1 (m) (Arch.) Gwilt. Quartering block, a block on which the body of a condemned criminal was quartered. Macaulay. 

QUARTERLY:  A periodical work published once a quarter, or four times in a year. 

QUARTERLY:  In quarters, or quarterings; as, to bear arms quarterly; in four or more parts; -- said of a shield thus divided by lines drawn through it at right angles. 

QUARTERMASTER:  An officer whose duty is to provide quarters, provisions, storage, clothing, fuel, stationery, and transportation for a regiment or other body of troops, and superintend the supplies.  2. (Naut.)  A petty officer who attends to the helm, binnacle, signals, and the like, under the direction of the master. Totten. Quartermaster general (Mil.), in the United States a staff officer, who has the rank of brigadier general and is the chief officer in the quartermaster's department; in England, an officer of high rank stationed at the War Office having similar duties; also, a staff officer, usually a general officer, accompanying each complete army in the field.  -- Quartermaster sergeant. See Sergeant. 

QUARTERON:  A quarter; esp., a quarter of a pound, or a quarter of a hundred. Piers Plowman.  QUARTERON; QUARTEROON Quar"ter*on, Quar"ter*oon, n.  A quadroon. 

QUARTERPACE:  A platform of a staircase where the stair turns at a right angle only. See Halfpace.  QUARTER ROUND Quar"ter round`. (Arch.)  An ovolo.  QUARTER-SAW Quar"ter-saw`, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Quarter-sawed  -sawn; p. pr. & vb. n. Quarter-sawing.]  To saw (a log) into quarters; specif., to saw into quarters and then into boards, as by cutting alternately from each face of a quarter, to secure lumber that will warp relatively little or show the grain advantageously. 

QUARTERSTAFF:  A long and stout staff formerly used as a weapon of defense and offense; -- so called because in holding it one hand was placed in the middle, and the other between the middle and the end.  QUARTET; QUARTETTE Quar*tet", Quar*tette", n. Etym: [It. quartetto, dim. of quarto the fourth, a fourth part, fr. L. quartus the fourth. See Quart.]  1. (Mus.) (a) A composition in four parts, each performed by a single voice or instrument. (b) The set of four person who perform a piece of music in four parts.  2. (Poet.)  A stanza of four lines. 

QUARTIC:  Of the fourth degree. 

QUARTILE:  Same as Quadrate. 

QUARTINE:  A supposed fourth integument of an ovule, counting from the outside. 

QUARTO:  Having four leaves to the sheet; of the form or size of a quarto. 

QUARTO:  Originally, a book of the size of the fourth of sheet of printing paper; a size leaves; in present usage, a book of a square or nearly square form, and usually of large size. 

QUARTRIDGE:  Quarterage. [Obs.] 

QUARTZ:  A form of silica, or silicon dioxide (SiO2), occurring in hexagonal crystals, which are commonly colorless and transparent, but sometimes also yellow, brown, purple, green, and of other colors; also in cryptocrystalline massive forms varying in color and degree of transparency, being sometimes opaque.  Note: The crystalline varieties include: amethyst, violet; citrine and false topaz, pale yellow; rock crystal, transparent and colorless or nearly so; rose quartz, rosecolored; smoky quartz, smoky brown. The chief crypto-crystalline varieties are: agate, a chalcedony in layers or clouded with different colors, including the onyx and sardonyx; carnelian and sard, red or flesh-colored chalcedony; chalcedony, nearly white, and waxy in luster; chrysoprase, an apple- green chalcedony; flint, hornstone, basanite, or touchstone, brown to black in color and compact in texture; heliotrope, green dotted with red; jasper, opaque, red yellow, or brown, colored by iron or ferruginous clay; prase, translucent and dull leek-green. Quartz is an essential constituent of granite, and abounds in rocks of all ages. It forms the rocks quartzite (quartz rock) and sandstone, and makes most of the sand of the seashore. 

QUARTZIFEROUS:  Consisting chiefly of quartz; containing quartz. 

QUARTZITE:  Massive quartz occurring as a rock; a metamorphosed sandstone; -- called also quartz rock. 

QUARTZOID:  A form of crystal common with quartz, consisting of two six- sided pyramids, base to base. 

QUARTZOSE:  Containing, or resembling, quartz; partaking of the nature or qualities of quartz. 

QUARTZOUS:  Quarzose. 

QUARTZY:  Quartzose. 

QUAS:  A kind of beer. Same as Quass.  QUASCHI; QUASJE Quas"chi, Quas"je, n. (Zoöl.)  The brown coati. See Coati. 

QUASH:  Same as Squash. 

QUASH:  To abate, annul, overthrow, or make void; as, to quash an indictment. Blackstone. 

QUASH:  To be shaken, or dashed about, with noise. 

QUASHEE:  A negro of the West Indies. 

QUASI:  As if; as though; as it were; in a manner sense or degree; having some resemblance to; qualified; -- used as an adjective, or a prefix with a noun or an adjective; as, a quasi contract, an implied contract, an obligation which has arisen from some act, as if from a contract; a quasi corporation, a body that has some, but not all, of the peculiar attributes of a corporation; a quasi argument, that which resembles, or is used as, an argument; quasi historical, apparently historical, seeming to be historical.  QUASI CORPORATION Qua"si cor`po*ra"tion.  A corporation consisting of a person or body of persons invested with some of the qualities of an artificial person, though not expressly incorporated, esp. the official of certain municipal divisions such as counties, schools districts, and the towns of some States of the United States, certain church officials, as a churchwarden, etc. 

QUASIMODO:  The first Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday. 

QUASS:  A thin, sour beer, made by pouring warm water on rye or barley meal and letting it ferment, -- much used by the Russians. [written also quas.] 

QUASSATION:  The act of shaking, or the state of being shaken. Gayton. 

QUASSIA:  The wood of several tropical American trees of the order Simarubeæ, as Quassia amara, Picræna excelsa, and Simaruba amara. It is intensely bitter, and is used in medicine and sometimes as a substitute for hops in making beer. 

QUASSIN:  The bitter principle of quassia, extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- formerly called quassite. [Written also quassiin, and quassine.] 

QUAT:  To satiate; to satisfy. [Prov. Eng.] 

QUATA:  The coaita. 

QUATCH:  Squat; flat. [Obs.] Shak.  QUATER-COUSIN Qua"ter-cous`in, n. Etym: [F. quatre four + cousin, E. cousin.]  A cousin within the first four degrees of kindred. 

QUATERNARY:  Later than, or subsequent to, the Tertiary; Post-tertiary; as, the Quaternary age, or Age of man. 

QUATERNARY:  The Quaternary age, era, or formation. See the Chart of Geology. 

QUATERNATE:  Composed of, or arranged in, sets of four; quaternary; as, quaternate leaves. 

QUATERNION:  The quotient of two vectors, or of two directed right lines in space, considered as depending on four geometrical elements, and as expressible by an algebraic symbol of quadrinomial form.  Note: The science or calculus of quaternions is a new mathematical method, in which the conception of a quaternion is unfolded and symbolically expressed, and is applied to various classes of algebraical, geometrical, and physical questions, so as to discover theorems, and to arrive at the solution of problems. Sir W. R. Hamilton. 

QUATERNION:  To divide into quaternions, files, or companies. Milton. 

QUATERON:  See 2d Quarteron. 

QUATORZAIN:  A poem of fourteen lines; a sonnet. R. H. Stoddard. 

QUATORZE:  The four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens, in the game of piquet; -- so called because quatorze counts as fourteen points. 

QUATRAIN:  A stanza of four lines rhyming alternately. Dryden. 

QUATRE:  A card, die. or domino, having four spots, or pips  QUATREFEUILLE; QUATREFOIL Qua"tre*feuille, Qua"tre*foil, n. Etym: [F. quatre feuilles.]  Same as Quarterfoil. 

QUATTROCENTO:  The fifteenth century, when applied to Italian art or literature; as, the sculpture of the quattrocento; quattrocento style. --Quat`tro*cen"tist (#), n. 

QUATUOR:  A quartet; -- applied chiefly to instrumental compositions. 

QUAVE:  See Quaver. [Obs.] 

QUAVE:  To quaver. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

QUAVEMIRE:  See Quagmire. [Obs.] 

QUAVER:  To utter with quavers. We shall hear her quavering them . . . to some sprightly airs of the opera. Addison. 

QUAVER:  An eighth note. See Eighth. 

QUAVERER:  One who quavers; a warbler. 

QUAY:  A mole, bank, or wharf, formed toward the sea, or at the side of a harbor, river, or other navigable water, for convenience in loading and unloading vessels. [Written also key.] 

QUAY:  To furnish with quays. 

QUAYAGE:  Wharfage. [Also keyage.] 

QUAYD:  p. p. of Quail. [Obs.] Spenser. 

QUE:  A half farthing. [Obs.] 

QUEACH:  A thick, bushy plot; a thicket. [Obs.] Chapman. 

QUEACH:  To stir; to move. See Quick, v. i. [Obs.] 

QUEASILY:  In a queasy manner. 

QUEASINESS:  The state of being queasy; nausea; qualmishness; squeamishness. Shak. 

QUEASY:  The middle of the three groups into which the rocks of the Canadian period have been divided in the American Lower Silurian system. See the Chart of Geology. 

QUEBRACHO:  A Chilian apocynaceous tree (Aspidosperma Quebracho); also, its bark, which is used as a febrifuge, and for dyspnoea of the lung, or bronchial diseases; -- called also white quebracho, to distinguish it from the red quebracho, a Mexican anacardiaceous tree (Loxopterygium Lorentzii) whose bark is said to have similar properties. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 

QUEBRITH:  Sulphur. [Obs.]  QUECH; QUECK Quech, Queck, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Quick, Queach.]  A word occurring in a corrupt passage of Bacon's Essays, and probably meaning, to stir, to move. 

QUEEN:  The most powerful, and except the king the most important, piece in a set of chessmen.  6. A playing card bearing the picture of a queen; as, the queen of spades.  A male homosexual, esp. one who is effeminate or dresses in women's clothing. Sometimes pejorative. Queen apple. Etym: [Cf. OE. quyne aple quince apple.] A kind of apple; a queening. "Queen apples and red cherries." Spenser.  -- Queen bee (Zoöl.), a female bee, especially the female of the honeybee. See Honeybee.  -- Queen conch (Zoöl.), a very large West Indian cameo conch (Cassis cameo). It is much used for making cameos.  -- Queen consort, the wife of a reigning king. Blackstone.  -- Queen dowager, the widow of a king.  -- Queen gold, formerly a revenue of the queen consort of England, arising from gifts, fines, etc.  -- Queen mother, a queen dowager who is also mother of the reigning king or queen.  -- Queen of May. See May queen, under May.  -- Queen of the meadow (Bot.), a European herbaceous plant (Spiræa Ulmaria). See Meadowsweet.  -- Queen of the prairie (Bot.), an American herb (Spiræa lobata) with ample clusters of pale pink flowers.  -- Queen pigeon (Zoöl.), any one of several species of very large and handsome crested ground pigeons of the genus Goura, native of New Guinea and the adjacent islands. They are mostly pale blue, or ash- blue, marked with white, and have a large occipital crest of spatulate feathers. Called also crowned pigeon, goura, and Victoria pigeon.  -- Queen regent, or Queen regnant, a queen reigning in her own right.  -- Queen's Bench. See King's Bench.  -- Queen's counsel, Queen's evidence. See King's counsel, King's evidence, under King.  -- Queen's delight (Bot.), an American plant (Stillinqia sylvatica) of the Spurge family, having an herbaceous stem and a perennial woody root.  -- Queen's metal (Metal.), an alloy somewhat resembling pewter or britannia, and consisting essentially of tin with a slight admixture of antimony, bismuth, and lead or copper.  -- Queen's pigeon. (Zoöl.) Same as Queen pigeon, above.  -- Queen's ware, glazed English earthenware of a cream color.  -- Queen's yellow (Old Chem.), a heavy yellow powder consisting of a basic mercuric sulphate; -- formerly called turpetum minerale, or Turbith's mineral. 

QUEEN:  To act the part of a queen. Shak. 

QUEEN:  To make a queen (or other piece, at the player's discretion) of by moving it to the eighth row; as, to queen a pawn. 

QUEENCRAFT:  Craft or skill in policy on the part of a queen. Elizabeth showed much queencraft in procuring the votes of the nobility. Fuller. 

QUEENDOM:  The dominion, condition, or character of a queen. Mrs. Browning. 

QUEENFISH:  A California sciænoid food fish (Seriphys politus). The back is bluish, and the sides and belly bright silvery. Called also kingfish. 

QUEENHOOD:  The state, personality, or character of a queen; queenliness. Tennyson. 

QUEENING:  Any one of several kinds of apples, as summer queening, scarlet queening, and early queening. An apple called the queening was cultivated in England two hundred years ago. 

QUEENLINESS:  The quality of being queenly; the; characteristic of a queen; stateliness; eminence among women in attractions or power. 

QUEENLY:  Like, becoming, or suitable to, a queen.  QUEEN OLIVE Queen olive. [Cf. Sp. aceituna de la Reina olive of the Queen.] (Olive Trade)  Properly, a kind of superior olive grown in the region of Seville, Spain. It is large size and oblong shape with a small but long pit; it is cured when green, keeps well, and has a delicate flavor. Loosely, any olive of similar character.  QUEEN-POST Queen"-post`, n. [Arch.]  One of two suspending posts in a roof truss, or other framed truss of similar form. See King-post. 

QUEENSHIP:  The state, rank, or dignity of a queen.  QUEENSLAND NUT Queens"land nut`. (Bot.)  The nut of an Australian tree (Macadamia ternifolia). It is about an inch in diameter, and contains a single round edible seed, or sometimes two hemispherical seeds. So called from Queensland in Australia.  QUEEN TRUSS Queen" truss. (Arch.)  A truss framed with queen-posts; a queen-post truss. 

QUEER:  Counterfeit money. [Slang] To shove the queer, to put counterfeit money in circulation. [Slang] 

QUEERISH:  Rather queer; somewhat singular. 

QUEERLY:  In a queer or odd manner. 

QUEERNESS:  The quality or state of being queer. 

QUEEST:  The European ringdove (Columba palumbus); the cushat. [Written also quist, queeze, quice, queece.] See Ringdove. 

QUEGH:  A drinking vessel. See Quaich. 

QUEINT:  See Quaint. [Obs.] 

QUEINT:  imp. & p. p. of Quench. Chaucer. 

QUEINTISE:  See Quaintise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

QUELL:  Murder. [Obs.] Shak. 

QUELLIO:  A ruff for the neck. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

QUELQUECHOSE:  A trifle; a kickshaw. Donne. 

QUEME:  To please. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

QUEMEFUL:  Kindly; merciful. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

QUENCH:  To become extinguished; to go out; to become calm or cool. [R.] Dost thou think in time She will not quench! Shak. 

QUENCHABLE:  Capable of being quenched. 

QUENCHER:  One who, or that which, quenches. Hammond. 

QUENCHLESS:  Incapable of being quenched; inextinguishable; as, quenchless fire or fury. "Once kindled, quenchless evermore." Byron.  Syn.  -- Inextinguishable; unquenchable.  -- Quench"less*ly, adv.  -- Quench"less*ness, n. 

QUENELLE:  A kind of delicate forcemeat, commonly poached and used as a dish by itself or for garnishing.  QUENOUILLE TRAINING Que*nouille train"ing. Etym: [F. quenouille distaff.] (Hort.)  A method of training trees or shrubs in the shape of a cone or distaff by tying down the branches and pruning. 

QUERCITANNIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a tannic acid found in oak bark and extracted as a yellowish brown amorphous substance. 

QUERCITE:  A white crystalline substance, C6H7(OH)5, found in acorns, the fruit of the oak (Quercus). It has a sweet taste, and is regarded as a pentacid alcohol. 

QUERCITIN:  A yellow crystalline substance, occurring quite widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, as is apple-tree bark, horse- chestnut leaves, etc., but originally obtained by the decomposition of quercitrin. Called also meletin. 

QUERCITRIN:  A glucoside extracted from the bark of the oak (Quercus) as a bitter citron-yellow crystalline substance, used as a pigment and called quercitron. 

QUERCUS:  A genus of trees constituted by the oak. See Oak. 

QUERELE:  A complaint to a court. See Audita Querela. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

QUERENT:  A complainant; a plaintiff. 

QUERENT:  An inquirer. [Obs.] Aubrey. 

QUERIMONIOUS:  Complaining; querulous; apt to complain.  -- Quer`i*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.  -- Quer`i*mo"ni*ous*ness, n. 

QUERIMONY:  A complaint or complaining. [Obs.] E. Hall. 

QUERIST:  One who inquires, or asks questions. Swift. 

QUERKEN:  To stifle or choke. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

QUERL:  To twirl; to turn or wind round; to coil; as, to querl a cord, thread, or rope. [Local, U.S.] 

QUERL:  A coil; a twirl; as, the qwerl of hair on the fore leg of a blooded horse. [Local, U. S.] 

QUERN:  A mill for grinding grain, the upper stone of which was turned by hand; -- used before the invention of windmills and watermills. Shak. They made him at the querne grind. Chaucer. 

QUERPO:  The inner or body garments taken together. See Cuerpo. Dryden. 

QUERRY:  A groom; an equerry. [Obs.] 

QUERULENTIAL:  Querulous. [R.] 

QUESAL:  The long-tailed, or resplendent, trogon (Pharomachus mocinno, formerly Trogon resplendens), native of Southern Mexico and Central America. Called alsoquetzal, and golden trogon.  Note: The male is remarkable for the brilliant metallic green and gold colors of his plumage, and for his extremely long plumes, which often exceed three feet in length. 

QUEST:  To search for; to examine. [R.] Sir T. Herbert. 

QUEST:  To go on a quest; to make a search; to go in pursuit; to beg. [R.] If his questing had been unsuccessful, he appeased the rage of hunger with some scraps of broken meat. Macaulay. 

QUESTANT:  One who undertakes a quest; a seeker. [Obs.] Shak. 

QUESTER:  One who seeks; a seeker. [Obs.] 

QUESTIONABILITY:  The state or condition of being questionable. Stallo. 

QUESTIONABLENESS:  The quality or state of being questionable, doubtful, or suspicious. 

QUESTIONABLY:  In a questionable manner. 

QUESTIONARY:  Inquiring; asking questions; testing. "Questionary epistles." Pope. 

QUESTIONARY:  One who makes it his business to seek after relics and carry them about for sale. 

QUESTIONER:  One who asks questions; an inquirer. "Little time for idle questioners." Tennyson. 

QUESTIONIST:  A candidate for honors or degrees who is near the time of his examination. 

QUESTIONLESS:  Unquestioning; incurious. [R.] 

QUESTIONLESS:  Beyond a question or doubt; doubtless; certainly.[R.] South. What it was in the apostles' time, that, questionless, it must be still. Milton. 

QUESTIONNAIRE:  = Questionary, above. 

QUESTMAN:  One legally empowered to make quest of certain matters, esp. of abuses of weights and measures. Specifically: (a) A churchwarden's assistant; a sidesman. Blount. [Obs.] (b) A collector of parish rents. Blount. [Obs.] 

QUESTMONGER:  One who lays informations, and encourages petty lawsuits. [Obs.] Bacon. 

QUESTOR:  An officer who had the management of the public treasure; a receiver of taxes, tribute, etc.; treasurer of state. [Written also quæstor.]  Note: At an early period there were also public accusers styled questors, but the office was soon abolished. 

QUESTORSHIP:  The office, or the term of office, of a questor. 

QUESTRIST:  A seeker; a pursuer. [Obs.] "Hot questrists after him." Shak. 

QUESTUARY:  Studious of profit. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

QUESTUARY:  One employed to collect profits. [R.] "The pope's questuaries." Jer. Taylor. 

QUET:  The common guillemot. [Prov. Eng.] 

QUEUE:  To fasten, as hair, in a queue. 

QUEY:  A heifer. [Scot.] 

QUIB:  A quip; a gibe. 

QUIBBLER:  One who quibbles; a caviler; also, a punster. 

QUIBBLINGLY:  Triflingly; evasively. 

QUICA:  A small South American opossum (Didelphys quica), native of Guiana and Brazil. It feeds upon insects, small birds, and fruit. 

QUICE:  See Queest. 

QUICH:  To stir. [Obs.] He could not move nor quich at all. Spenser. 

QUICHUAN:  Designating, or pertaining to, a linguistic stock of South American Indians, including the majority of the civilized tribes of the ancient Peruvian Empire with some wild tribes never subjugated by the Incas. Most of these Indians are short, but heavy and strong. They are brachycephalic and of remarkably low cranial capacity. Nevertheless, they represent one of the highest of native American civilizations, characterized by agricultural, military, and administrative skill rather than by science or literature, although they were adept potters, weavers, and goldsmiths, and preserved by the aid of the mnemonic quipu a body of legendary lore in part written down since the introduction of writing. 

QUICK:  In a quick manner; quickly; promptly; rapidly; with haste; speedily; without delay; as, run quick; get back quick. If we consider how very quick the actions of the mind are performed. Locke. 

QUICK:  Quitch grass. Tennyson. 

QUICK:  To revive; to quicken; to be or become alive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

QUICKBEAM:  See Quicken tree. 

QUICKEN:  To shorten the radius of (a curve); to make (a curve) sharper; as, to quicken the sheer, that is, to make its curve more pronounced.  Syn.  -- To revive; resuscitate; animate; reinvigorate; vivify; refresh; stimulate; sharpen; incite; hasten; accelerate; expedite; dispatch; speed. 

QUICKENER:  One who, or that which, quickens. 

QUICKENING:  The first motion of the fetus in the womb felt by the mother, occurring usually about the middle of the term of pregnancy. It has been popularly supposed to be due to the fetus becoming possessed of independent life. 

QUICKENS:  Quitch grass.  QUICKEN TREE Quick"en tree`. Etym: [Probably from quick, and first applied to the aspen or some tree with quivering leaves; cf. G. quickenbaum, quizenbaum, quitschenbaum. Cf. Quitch grass.] (Bot.)  The European rowan tree; -- called also quickbeam, and quickenbeam. See Rowan tree. 

QUICKHATCH:  The wolverine. 

QUICKLIME:  Calcium oxide; unslacked lime; -- so called because when wet it develops great heat. See 4th Lime, 2. 

QUICKLY:  Speedily; with haste or celerity; soon; without delay; quick. 

QUICKSAND:  Sand easily moved or readily yielding to pressure; especially, a deep mass of loose or moving sand mixed with water, sometimes found at the mouth of a river or along some coasts, and very dangerous, from the difficulty of extricating a person who begins sinking into it. Life hath quicksands, -- Life hath snares! Longfellow.  QUICK-SCENTED Quick"-scent`ed, a.  Acute of smell. 

QUICKSET:  A living plant set to grow, esp. when set for a hedge; specifically, the hawthorn. 

QUICKSET:  Made of quickset. Dates and pomegranates on the quickset hedges. Walpole. 

QUICKSET:  To plant with living shrubs or trees for a hedge; as, to quickset a ditch. Mortimer.  QUICK-SIGHTED Quick"-sight`ed, a.  Having quick sight or acute discernment; quick to see or to discern. Locke. --Quick"-sight`ed*ness, n. 

QUICKSILVER:  The metal mercury; -- so called from its resemblance to liquid silver. Quicksilver horizon, a mercurial artificial horizon. See under Horizon.  -- Quicksilver water, a solution of mercury nitrate used in artificial silvering; quick water. 

QUICKSILVERED:  Overlaid with quicksilver, or with an amalgam of quicksilver and tinfoil. 

QUICKSILVERING:  The mercury and foil on the back of a looking-glass. 

QUICKSTEP:  A lively, spirited march; also, a lively style of dancing.  QUICK-WITTED Quick"-wit`ted, a.  Having ready wit Shak.  QUICK-WITTEDNESS Quick"-wit`ted*ness, n.  Readiness of wit. "Celtic quick-wittedness." M. Arnold. 

QUID:  A portion suitable to be chewed; a cud; as, a quid of tobacco. 

QUID:  To drop from the mouth, as food when partially chewed; -- said of horses. Youatt. 

QUIDAM:  Somebody; one unknown. Spenser. 

QUIDDANY:  A confection of quinces, in consistency between a sirup and marmalade. 

QUIDDATIVE:  Constituting, or containing, the essence of a thing; quidditative. 

QUIDDIT:  A subtilty; an equivocation. [Obs.] Shak. By some strange quiddit or some wrested clause. Drayton. 

QUIDDITATIVE:  Quiddative. 

QUIDDLE:  To spend time in trifling employments, or to attend to useful subjects in an indifferent or superficial manner; to dawdle.  QUIDDLE; QUIDDLER Quid"dle, Quid"dler, n.  One who wastes his energy about trifles. Emerson. 

QUIDNUNC:  One who is curious to know everything that passes; one who knows, or pretends to know, all that is going on. "The idle stories of quidnuncs." Motley. 

QUIESCE:  To be silent, as a letter; to have no sound. M. Stuart.  QUIESCENCE; QUIESCENCY Qui*es"cence, Qui*es"cen*cy, n. Etym: [L. quiescentia, fr. quiescens, p. pr.; cf. F. quiestence. See Quiesce.]  The state or quality of being quiescent. "Quiescence, bodily and mental." H. Spencer. Deeds will be done; -- while be boasts his quiescence. R. Browning. 

QUIESCENT:  Not sounded; silent; as, y is quiescent in "day" and "say." 

QUIESCENT:  A silent letter. M. Stuart. 

QUIESCENTLY:  In a quiescent manner. 

QUIET:  To become still, silent, or calm; -- often with down; as, be soon quieted down. 

QUIETAGE:  Quietness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

QUIETER:  One who, or that which, quiets. 

QUIETISM:  The system of the Quietists, who maintained that religion consists in the withdrawal of the mind from worldly interests and anxieties and its constant employment in the passive contemplation of God and his attributes. 

QUIETIST:  One of a sect of mystics originated in the seventeenth century by Molinos, a Spanish priest living in Rome. See Quietism. 

QUIETISTIC:  Of or pertaining to the Quietists, or to Quietism. 

QUIETNESS:  The quality or state of being quiet; freedom from noise, agitation, disturbance, or excitement; stillness; tranquillity; calmness. I would have peace and quietness. Shak. 

QUIETSOME:  Calm; still. [Obs.] Spenser. 

QUIETUDE:  Rest; repose; quiet; tranquillity. Shelley. 

QUIETUS:  Final discharge or acquittance, as from debt or obligation; that which silences claims; (Fig.) rest; death. When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin. Shak. 

QUILL:  The bark of a rosaceous tree (Quillaja Saponaria), native of Chili. The bark is finely laminated, and very heavy with alkaline substances, and is used commonly by the Chilians instead of soap. Also called soap bark. 

QUILLBACK:  An American fresh-water fish (Ictiobus, or Carpiodes, cyprinus); -- called also carp sucker, sailfish, spearfish, and skimback. 

QUILLED:  Furnished with quills; also, shaped like quills. "A sharp- quilled porcupine." Shak. Quilled suture (Surg.), a variety of stitch in which the threads after being passed deeply through the edges of a wound are secured about two quills or bodies of similar shape, in order to produce a suitable degree of pressure. 

QUILLET:  Subtilty; nicety; quibble. "Nice, sharp quillets of the law." Shak. 

QUILLWORT:  Any plant or species of the genus Isoetes, cryptogamous plants with a cluster of elongated four-tubed rushlike leaves, rising from a corm, and containing spores in their enlarged and excavated bases. There are about seventeen American species, usually growing in the mud under still, shallow water. So called from the shape of the shape of the leaves. 

QUILT:  Anything that is quilted; esp., a quilted bed cover, or a skirt worn by women; any cover or garment made by putting wool, cotton, etc., between two cloths and stitching them together; also, any outer bed cover. The beds were covered with magnificent quilts. Arbuthnot. 

QUILTER:  One who, or that which, quilts. 

QUILTING:  A coating of strands of rope for a water vessel. 

QUIN:  A European scallop (Pecten opercularis), used as food. [Prov. Eng.] 

QUINALDINE:  A colorless liquid of a slightly pungent odor, C9H6N.CH3, first obtained as a condensation product of aldehyde and aniline, and regarded as a derivative of quinoline; -- called also methyl quinoline. [Written also chinaldine.] 

QUINARY:  Consisting of five; arranged by fives. Boyle. Quinary system (Zoöl.), a fanciful classification based on the hypothesis that each group contains five types. 

QUINATE:  Growing in sets of five; -- said especially of leaves composed of five leaflets set at the end of a common petiole. 

QUINATE:  A salt of quinic acid. [Written also kinate.] 

QUINAZOL:  A complex nitrogenous base related to cinnoline. [Written also chinazol.] 

QUINCE:  a quince tree or shrub. Japan quince (Bot.), an Eastern Asiatic shrub (Cydonia, formerly Pyrus, Japonica) and its very fragrant but inedible fruit. The shrub has very showy flowers, usually red, but sometimes pink or white, and is much grown for ornament.  -- Quince curculio (Zoöl.), a small gray and yellow curculio (Conotrachelus cratægi) whose larva lives in quinces.  -- Quince tree (Bot.), the small tree (Cydonia vulgaris) which produces the quince. 

QUINCEWORT:  The squinancy. Called also quinsywort. 

QUINCH:  To stir; to wince. [Obs.] Spenser. 

QUINCUNCIAL:  Having the leaves of a pentamerous calyx or corolla so imbricated that two are exterior, two are interior, and the other has one edge exterior and one interior; as, quincuncial æstivation. Quincuncial phyllotaxy (Bot.), an arrangement of five leaves in a spiral, each leaf two fifths of a circle from the next. 

QUINCUNCIALLY:  In the manner or order of a quincunx. 

QUINCUNX:  The position of planets when distant from each other five signs, or 150º. Hutton.  3. (Bot.)  A quincuncial arrangement, as of the parts of a flower in æstivation. See Quincuncial, 2. 

QUINDECAGON:  A plane figure with fifteen angles, and consequently fifteen sides. 

QUINDECEMVIR:  One of a sacerdotal college of fifteen men whose chief duty was to take care of the Sibylline books. 

QUINDECEMVIRATE:  The body or office of the quindecemviri. 

QUINDECONE:  An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C15H26, of the valylene series, produced artificially as an oily liquid. [Written also quindekone.] 

QUINDECYLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the fatty acid series, containing fifteen atoms of carbon; called also pentadecylic acid. 

QUINDEM:  A fifteenth part. [Obs.] 

QUINDISM:  A fifteenth. [Obs.] Prynne. 

QUINHYDRONE:  A green crystalline substance formed by the union of quinone with hydroquinone, or as an intermediate product in the oxidation of hydroquinone or the reduction of quinone. [Written also chinhydrone.] 

QUINIA:  Quinine. 

QUINIBLE:  An interval of a fifth; also, a part sung with such intervals. [Obs.] "He sang . . . a loud quynyble." Chaucer. 

QUINIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or connected with, quinine and related compounds; specifically, designating a nonnitrogenous acid obtained from cinchona bark, coffee, beans, etc., as a white crystalline substance. [Written also chinic, kinic.] 

QUINICINE:  An uncrystallizable alkaloid obtained by the action of heat from quinine, with which it is isomeric. 

QUINIDINE:  An alkaloid isomeric with, and resembling, quinine, found in certain species of cinchona, from which it is extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance; conchinine. It is used somewhat as a febrifuge. [Written also chinidine.] 

QUININE:  An alkaloid extracted from the bark of several species of cinchona (esp. Cinchona Calisaya) as a bitter white crystalline substance, C20H24N2O2. Hence, by extension (Med.), any of the salts of this alkaloid, as the acetate, chloride, sulphate, etc., employed as a febrifuge or antiperiodic. Called also quinia, quinina, etc. [Written also chinine.] 

QUININIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid obtained as a yellow crystalline substance by the oxidation of quinine.  QUININISM; QUINISM Qui"nin*ism, Qui"nism, n. (Med.)  See Cinchonism. 

QUINIZARIN:  A yellow crystalline substance produced artificially. It is isomeric with alizarin. 

QUINIZINE:  any one of a series of nitrogenous bases, certain of which are used as antipyretics. 

QUINNAT:  The California salmon (Oncorhynchus choicha); -- called also chouicha, king salmon, chinnook salmon, and Sacramento salmon. It is of great commercial importance. [Written also quinnet.] 

QUINOA:  The seeds of a kind of goosewort (Chenopodium Quinoa), used in Chili and Peru for making porridge or cakes; also, food thus made. 

QUINOGEN:  A hypothetical radical of quinine and related alkaloids. 

QUINOIDINE:  A brownish resinous substance obtained as a by-product in the treatment of cinchona bark. It consists of a mixture of several alkaloids. [Written also chinoidine.] 

QUINOLINE:  A nitrogenous base, C9H7N obtained as a pungent colorless liquid by the distillation of alkaloids, bones, coal tar, etc. It the nucleus of many organic bodies, especially of certain alkaloids and related substances; hence, by extension, any one of the series of alkaloidal bases of which quinoline proper is the type. [Written also chinoline.] 

QUINOLOGIST:  One who is versed in quinology. 

QUINOLOGY:  The science which treats of the cultivation of the cinchona, and of its use in medicine. 

QUINONE:  A crystalline substance, C6H4O2 (called also benzoketone), first obtained by the oxidation of quinic acid and regarded as a double ketone; also, by extension, any one of the series of which quinone proper is the type. [Written also chinone, kinone.] 

QUINOVIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline acid obtained from some varieties of cinchona bark. [Written also chinovic, and kinovic.] 

QUINOVIN:  An amorphous bitter glucoside derived from cinchona and other barks. Called also quinova bitter, and quinova. [Written also chinovin, and kinovin.] 

QUINOXALINE:  Any one of a series of complex nitrogenous bases obtained by the union of certain aniline derivatives with glyoxal or with certain ketones. [Written also chinoxaline.] 

QUINOXYL:  The hypothetical radical of certain quinone derivatives related to rhodizonic acid. 

QUINOYL:  A radical of which quinone is the hydride, analogous to phenyl. [Written also kinoyl.] 

QUINQUAGESIMA:  Fiftieth. Quinquagesima Sunday, the Sunday which is the fiftieth day before Easter, both days being included in the reckoning; -- called also Shrove Sunday. 

QUINQUANGULAR:  Having five angles or corners. 

QUINQUARTICULAR:  Relating to the five articles or points; as, the quinquarticular controversy between Arminians and Calvinists. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.  QUINQUE- Quin"que-. Etym: [L. quinque five. See Five.]  A combining form meaning five, five times, fivefold; as, quinquefid, five-cleft; quinquedentate, five-toothed. 

QUINQUEANGLED:  Having five angles; quinquangular.  QUINQUEDENTATE; QUINQUEDENTATED Quin`que*den"tate, Quin`que*den"ta*ted, a. Etym: [Quinque- + dentate, -tated: cf. F. quinquédenté.]  Five-toothed; as, a quinquedentate leaf. 

QUINQUEFARIOUS:  Arranged in five vertical rows; pentastichous. Gray. 

QUINQUEFID:  Sharply cut about halfway to the middle or base into five segments; as, a quinquefid leaf or corolla.  QUINQUEFOLIATE; QUINQUEFOLIATED Quin`que*fo"li*ate, Quin`que*fo"li*a`ted, a. Etym: [Quinque- + foliate, -ated: cf. F. quinquéfolié, L. quinquefolius.] (Bot.)  Having five leaves or leaflets. Gray.  QUINQUE FOLIOLATE Quin`que fo"li*o*late, a. (Bot.)  Having five leaflets. Gray. 

QUINQUELITERAL:  Consisting of five letters.  QUINQUELOBATE; QUINQUELOBARED Quin`que*lo"bate, Quin`que*lo"ba*red, a. Etym: [Quinque- + lobate, - ated: cf. F. quinquélobé.]  Cut less than halfway into portions, usually somewhat rounded; five-lobed; as, a quinquelobate leaf or corolla. 

QUINQUELOBED:  Same as Quinquelobate. 

QUINQUELOCULAR:  Having five cells or loculi; five-celled; as, a quinquelocular pericarp. 

QUINQUENERVED:  Having five nerves; -- said of a leaf with five nearly equal nerves or ribs rising from the end of the petiole. 

QUINQUENNALIA:  Public games celebrated every five years. 

QUINQUENNIAL:  Occurring once in five years, or at the end of every five years; also, lasting five years. A quinquennial event. 

QUINQUENNIUM:  Space of five years. 

QUINQUEPARTITE:  Divided into five parts almost to the base. 

QUINQUEREME:  A galley having five benches or banks of oars; as, an Athenian quinquereme. 

QUINQUESYLLABLE:  A word of five syllables.  QUINQUEVALVE; QUINQUEVALVULAR Quin"que*valve, Quin`que*val"vu*lar, a. Etym: [Quinque- + valve, valvular: cf. F. quinquévalve.] (Bot.)  Having five valves, as a pericarp. 

QUINQUEVIR:  One of five commissioners appointed for some special object. 

QUINQUINA:  Peruvian bark. 

QUINQUIVALENT:  Same as Pentavalent. 

QUINSY:  An inflammation of the throat, or parts adjacent, especially of the fauces or tonsils, attended by considerable swelling, painful and impeded deglutition, and accompanied by inflammatory fever. It sometimes creates danger of suffocation; -- called also squinancy, and squinzey. 

QUINT:  The interval of a fifth. 

QUINTAIN:  An object to be tilted at; -- called also quintel. [Written also quintin.]  Note: A common form in the Middle Ages was an upright post, on the top of which turned a crosspiece, having on one end a broad board, and on the other a sand bag. The endeavor was to strike the board with the lance while riding under, and get away without being hit by the sand bag. "But a quintain, a mere lifeless block." Shak. 

QUINTAN:  Occurring as the fifth, after four others also, occurring every fifth day, reckoning inclusively; as, a quintan fever.  -- n. (Med.)  An intermittent fever which returns every fifth day, reckoning inclusively, or in which the intermission lasts three days. 

QUINTEL:  See Quintain. 

QUINTESSENCE:  To distil or extract as a quintessence; to reduce to a quintessence. [R.] Stirling. "Truth quintessenced and raised to the highest power." J. A. Symonds. 

QUINTESSENTIAL:  Of the nature of a quintessence; purest. "Quintessential extract of mediocrity." G. Eliot.  QUINTET; QUINTETTE Quin*tet", Quin*tette", n. Etym: [It. quintetto, dim. of quinto the fifth, a fifth part, from L. quintus the fifth: cf. F. quintette. See Quint.] (Mus.)  A composition for five voices or instruments; also, the set of five persons who sing or play five-part music. 

QUINTIC:  Of the fifth degree or order.  -- n. (Alg.)  A quantic of the fifth degree. See Quantic. 

QUINTILE:  The aspect of planets when separated the fifth part of the zodiac, or 72º. Hutton. 

QUINTILLLION:  According to the French notation, which is used on the Continent and in America, the cube of a million, or a unit with eighteen ciphers annexed; according to the English notation, a number produced by involving a million to the fifth power, or a unit with thirty ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration. 

QUINTIN:  See Quintain. 

QUINTINE:  The embryonic sac of an ovule, sometimes regarded as an innermost fifth integument. Cf. Quartine, and Tercine. 

QUINTOLE:  A group of five notes to be played or sung in the time of four of the same species. 

QUINTROON:  The off-spring of an octoroon and a white person. 

QUINTUPLE:  Multiplied by five; increased to five times the amount; fivefold. Quintuple time (Mus.), a time having five beats in a measure. It is seldom used. 

QUINTUPLE:  To make fivefold, or five times as much or many.  QUINTUPLE-NERVED; QUINTUPLE-RIBBED Quin"tu*ple-nerved`, Quin"tu*ple-ribbed`, a. (Bot.)  The same as Quinquenerved. 

QUINZAINE:  The fifteenth day after a feast day, including both in the reckoning. [Written also quinzain.] 

QUINZE:  A game at cards in which the object is to make fifteen points. 

QUIP:  A smart, sarcastic turn or jest; a taunt; a severe retort; a gibe. Quips, and cranks, and wanton wiles. Milton. He was full of joke and jest, But all his merry quips are o'er. Tennyson. 

QUIP:  To taunt; to treat with quips. The more he laughs, and does her closely quip. Spenser. 

QUIP:  To scoff; to use taunts. Sir H. Sidney. 

QUIPO:  Same as Quipu. 

QUIPU:  A contrivance employed by the ancient Peruvians, Mexicans, etc., as a substitute for writing and figures, consisting of a main cord, from which hung at certain distances smaller cords of various colors, each having a special meaning, as silver, gold, corn, soldiers. etc. Single, double, and triple knots were tied in the smaller cords, representing definite numbers. It was chiefly used for arithmetical purposes, and to register important facts and events. [Written also quipo.] Tylor. The mysterious science of the quipus . . . supplied the Peruvians with the means of communicating their ideas to one another, and of transmitting them to future generations. Prescott. 

QUIRBOILLY:  Leather softened by boiling so as to take any required shape. Upon drying, it becomes exceedingly hard, and hence was formerly used for armor. [Obs.] "His jambeux were of quyrboilly." Chaucer. 

QUIRE:  See Choir. [Obs.] Spenser. A quire of such enticing birds. Shak. 

QUIRE:  To sing in concert. [R.] Shak. 

QUIRE:  A collection of twenty-four sheets of paper of the same size and quality, unfolded or having a single fold; one twentieth of a ream. 

QUIRINAL:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the hill Collis Quirinalis, now Monte Quirinale (one of the seven hills of Rome), or a modern royal place situated upon it. Also used substantively. 

QUIRISTER:  A chorister. See Chorister. [R.] Thomson. 

QUIRITATION:  A crying for help. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

QUIRITE:  One of the Quirites. 

QUIRITES:  Roman citizens.  Note: After the Sabines and Romans had united themselves into one community, under Romulus, the name of Quirites was taken in addition to that of Romani, the Romans calling themselves in a civil capacity Quirites, while in a political and military capacity they retained the name of Romani. Andrews. 

QUIRK:  A piece of ground taken out of any regular ground plot or floor, so as to make a court, yard, etc.; -- sometimes written quink. Gwilt.  6. (Arch.)  A small channel, deeply recessed in proportion to its width, used to insulate and give relief to a convex rounded molding. Quirk molding, a bead between two quirks. 

QUIRKED:  Having, or formed with, a quirk or quirks. 

QUIRKISH:  , Consisting of quirks; resembling a quirk. Barrow. 

QUIRKY:  Full of quirks; tricky; as, a quirky lawyer. 

QUIRL:  See Querl. 

QUIRPELE:  The Indian ferret. 

QUIRT:  A rawhide whip plaited with two thongs of buffalo hide T. Roosevelt. 

QUISH:  See Cuish. 

QUIT:  Any one of numerous species of small passerine birds native of tropical America. See Banana quit, under Banana, and Guitguit. 

QUIT:  Released from obligation, charge, penalty, etc.; free; clear; absolved; acquitted. Chaucer. The owner of the ox shall be quit. Ex. xxi. 28.  Note: This word is sometimes used in the form quits, colloquially; as, to be quits with one, that is, to have made mutual satisfaction of demands with him; to be even with him; hence, as an exclamation: Quits! we are even, or on equal terms. "To cry quits with the commons in their complaints." Fuller. 

QUIT:  To away; to depart; to stop doing a thing; to cease. 

QUITCH:  Same as Quitch grass.  2. Figuratively: A vice; a taint; an evil. To pick the vicious quitch Of blood and custom wholly out of him. Tennyson .  QUITCH GRASS Quitch" grass`. Etym: [Properly quick grass, being probably so called from its vigorous growth, or from its tenacity of life. See Quick, and cf. Couch grass.] (Bot.)  A perennial grass (Agropyrum repens) having long running rootstalks, by which it spreads rapidly and pertinaciously, and so becomes a troublesome weed. Also called couch grass, quick grass, quick grass, twitch grass. See Illustration in Appendix. 

QUITCLAIM:  A release or relinquishment of a claim; a deed of release; an instrument by which some right, title, interest, or claim, which one person has, or is supposed to have, in or to an estate held by himself or another, is released or relinquished, the grantor generally covenanting only against persons who claim under himself. 

QUITCLAIM:  To release or relinquish a claim to; to release a claim to by deed, without covenants of warranty against adverse and paramount titles. 

QUITE:  See Quit. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

QUITLY:  Quite. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

QUITRENT:  A rent reserved in grants of land, by the payment of which the tenant is quit from other service. Blackstone.  Note: In some of the United States a fee-farm rent is so termed. Burrill. 

QUITS:  See the Note under Quit, a. 

QUITTABLE:  Capable of being quitted. 

QUITTAL:  Return; requital; quittance. [Obs.] 

QUITTANCE:  To repay; to requite. [Obs.] Shak. 

QUITTOR:  A chronic abscess, or fistula of the coronet, in a horse's foot, resulting from inflammation of the tissues investing the coffin bone. 

QUITTURE:  A discharge; an issue. [Obs.] To cleanse the quitture from thy wound. Chapman. 

QUIVER:  Nimble; active. [Obs.] " A little quiver fellow." Shak. 

QUIVER:  To shake or move with slight and tremulous motion; to tremble; to quake; to shudder; to shiver. The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind. Shak. And left the limbs still quivering on the ground. Addison. 

QUIVER:  The act or state of quivering; a tremor. 

QUIVER:  A case or sheath for arrows to be carried on the person. Reside him hung his bow And quiver, with three-bolted thunder stored. Milton. 

QUIVERINGLY:  With quivering motion.  QUI VIVE Qui` vive". Etym: [F., fr. qui who + vive, pres. subj. of vivre to live.]  The challenge of a French sentinel, or patrol; -- used like the English challenge: "Who comes there" To be on the qui vive, to be on guard; to be watchful and alert, like a sentinel. 

QUIXOTIC:  Like Don Quixote; romantic to extravagance; absurdly chivalric; apt to be deluded. "Feats of quixotic gallantry." Prescott. 

QUIXOTICALLY:  In a quixotic way. 

QUIXOTISM:  That form of delusion which leads to extravagant and absurd undertakings or sacrifices in obedience to a morbidly romantic ideal of duty or honor, as illustrated by the exploits of Don Quixote in knight-errantry. 

QUIXOTRY:  Quixotism; visionary schemes. 

QUIZ:  To conduct a quiz. See Quiz, n., 4. [U.S.] 

QUIZZER:  One who quizzes; a quiz. 

QUIZZICAL:  Relating to quizzing: given to quizzing; of the nature of a quiz; farcical; sportive.  -- Quiz"zic*al*ly, adv. 

QUIZZISM:  The act or habit of quizzing. 

QUOB:  To throb; to quiver. [Local & Vulgar] 

QUOD:  A quadrangle or court, as of a prison; hence, a prison. [Slang] "Flogged or whipped in quod." T. Hughes. 

QUOD:  Quoth; said. See Quoth. [Obs.] "Let be," quod he, "it shall not be." Chaucer. 

QUODDIES:  Herring taken and cured or smoked near Quoddy Head, Maine, or near the entrance of Passamaquoddy Ray. 

QUODLIBET:  A medley improvised by several performers. 

QUODLIBETARIAN:  One who discusses any subject at pleasure. 

QUODLIBETICAL:  Not restricted to a particular subject; discussed for curiosity or entertainment.  -- Quod`li*bet"ic*al*ly, adv. 

QUOIF:  See Coif. Shak. 

QUOIFFURE:  See Coiffure. 

QUOIL:  See Coil. [Obs.] 

QUOIN:  Originally, a solid exterior angle, as of a building; now, commonly, one of the selected pieces of material by which the corner is marked.  Note: In stone, the quoins consist of blocks larger than those used in the rest of the building, and cut to dimension. In brickwork, quoins consist of groups or masses of brick laid together, and in a certain imitation of quoins of stone.  2. A wedgelike piece of stone, wood metal, or other material, used for various purposes, as: (a) (Masonry)  to support and steady a stone. (b) (Gun.) To support the breech of a cannon. (c) (Print.) To wedge or lock up a form within a chase. (d) (Naut.) To prevent casks from rolling. Hollow quoin. See under Hollow.  -- Quoin post (Canals), the post of a lock gate which abuts against the wall. 

QUOIT:  A game played with quoits. Shak.  2. The discus of the ancients. See Discus.  3. A cromlech. [Prov. Eng.] J. Morley. 

QUOIT:  To throw quoits; to play at quoits. To quoit, to run, and steeds and chariots drive. Dryden. 

QUOIT:  To throw; to pitch. [Obs. or R.] Shak. 

QUOKE:  imp. of Quake. Chaucer. 

QUOLL:  A marsupial of Australia (Dasyurus macrurus), about the size of a cat. 

QUONDAM:  Having been formerly; former; sometime. "This is the quondam king." Shak. 

QUONDAM:  A person dismissed or ejected from a position. [R.] "Make them quondams; . . . cast them out of their office." Latimer. 

QUOOK:  imp. of Quake. [Obs.] Spenser. 

QUOP:  See Quob. 

QUORUM:  Such a number of the officers or members of any body as is competent by law or constitution to transact business; as, a quorum of the House of Representatives; a constitutional quorum was not present.  Note: The term arose from the Latin words, Quorum aliquem vestrum . . . unum esse volumus (of whom we wish some one of you to be one), which were used in the commission formerly issued to justices of the peace in England, by which commission it was directed that no business of certain kinds should be done without the presence of one or more of certain justices specially designated. Justice of the peace and of the quorum designates a class of justices of the peace in some of the United States. 

QUOTA:  A proportional part or share; the share or proportion assigned to each in a division. "Quota of troops and money." Motley. 

QUOTABLE:  Capable or worthy of being quoted; as, a quotable writer; a quotable sentence.  -- Quot`a*bit"i*ty, n. Poe. 

QUOTATION:  The naming or publishing of the current price of stocks, bonds, or any commodity; also the price named.  4. Quota; share. [Obs.]  5. (print.)  A piece of hollow type metal, lower than type, and measuring two or more pica ems in length and breadth, used in the blank spaces at the beginning and end of chapters, etc. Quotation marks (Print.), two inverted commas placed at the beginning, and two apostrophes at the end, of a passage quoted from an author in his own words. 

QUOTATIONIST:  One who makes, or is given to making, quotations. The narrow intellectuals of quotationists. Milton. 

QUOTE:  To name the current price of.  4. To notice; to observe; to examine. [Obs.] Shak.  5. To set down, as in writing. [Obs.] "He's quoted for a most perfidious slave." Shak.  Syn.  -- To cite; name; adduce; repeat. Quote, Cite. To cite was originally to call into court as a witness, etc., and hence denotes bringing forward any thing or person as evidence. Quote usually signifies to reproduce another's words; it is also used to indicate an appeal to some one as an authority, without adducing his exact words. 

QUOTE:  A note upon an author. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

QUOTER:  One who quotes the words of another. 

QUOTH:  Said; spoke; uttered; -- used only in the first and third persons in the past tenses, and always followed by its nominative, the word or words said being the object; as, quoth I. quoth he. "Let me not live, quoth he." Shak. 

QUOTHA:  Indeed; forsooth. To affront the blessed hillside drabs and thieves With mended morals, quotha, -- fine new lives ! Mrs. Browning. 

QUOTIDIAN:  Occurring or returning daily; as, a quotidian fever. 

QUOTIDIAN:  Anything returning daily; especially (Med.), an intermittent fever or ague which returns every day. Milton. 

QUOTIENT:  The number resulting from the division of one number by another, and showing how often a less number is contained in a greater; thus, the quotient of twelve divided by four is three.  2. (Higher Alg.)  The result of any process inverse to multiplication. See the Note under Multiplication. 

QUOTIETY:  The relation of an object to number. Krauth-Fleming. 

QUOTUM:  Part or proportion; quota. [R.] "A very small quotum." Max Müller.  QUO WARRANTO Quo" war*ran"to. Etym: [So called from the Law L. words quo warranto (by what authority), in the original Latin form of the writ. See Which, and Warrant.] (Law)  A writ brought before a proper tribunal, to inquire by what warrant a person or a corporation acts, or exercises certain powers. Blackstone.  Note: An information in the nature of a quo warranto is now common as a substitute for the writ. Wharton. 

QURAN:  See Koran. 

R:  R, the eighteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a vocal consonant.  It is sometimes called a semivowel, and a liquid. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 178, 179, and 250-254. "R is the dog's letter and hurreth in the sound."  B. Jonson.  In words derived from the Greek language the letter h is generally written after r to represent the aspirated sound of the Greek "r, but does not affect the pronunciation of the English word, as rhapsody, rhetoric.  The English letter derives its form from the Greek through the Latin, the Greek letter being derived from the Phonician, which, it is believed, is ultimately of Egyptian origin. Etymologically, R is most closely related to l, s, and n; as in bandore, mandole; purple, L. purpura; E. chapter, F. chapitre, L. capitulum; E. was, were; hare, G. hase; E. order, F. ordre, L. ordo, ordinis; E. coffer, coffin.  The three Rs, a jocose expression for reading, (w)riting, and (a)rithmetic, -- the fundamentals of an education.  RA- Ra-.  A prefix, from the Latin re and ad combined, coming to us through the French and Italian. See Re-, and Ad-. 

RA:  A roe; a deer. [Obs.]  Chaucer. 

RAASH:  The electric catfish. [Written also raasch.] 

RAB:  A rod or stick used by masons in mixing hair with mortar. 

RABAT:  A polishing material made of potter's clay that has failed in baking. 

RABATE:  To recover to the fist, as a hawk. [Obs.] 

RABATINE:  A collar or cape. [Obs.]  Sir W. Scott. 

RABATO:  A kind of ruff for the neck; a turned-down collar; a rebato. [Obs.] Shak. 

RABBATE:  To abate or diminish. [Obs.] --n.  Abatement. [Obs.] 

RABBI:  Master; lord; teacher; -- a Jewish title of respect or honor for a teacher or doctor of the law. "The gravest rabbies."  Milton.  Be not ye called Rabbi, for one is your Master, even Christ, and all ye are brethren. Matt. xxiii. 8. 

RABBIN:  Same as Rabbi.  RABBINIC; RABBINICAL Rab*bin"ic (rab*bin"ik), Rab*bin"ic*al (-i*kal), a. [Cf. F. rabbinique.]  Of or pertaining to the rabbins or rabbis, or pertaining to the opinions, learning, or language of the rabbins. "Comments staler than rabbinic." Lowell.  We will not buy your rabbinical fumes. Milton. 

RABBINIC:  The language or dialect of the rabbins; the later Hebrew. 

RABBINICALLY:  In a rabbinical manner; after the manner of the rabbins. 

RABBINIST:  One among the Jews who adhered to the Talmud and the traditions of the rabbins, in opposition to the Karaites, who rejected the traditions. 

RABBINITE:  Same as Rabbinist. 

RABBITING:  The hunting of rabbits.  T. Hughes. 

RABBITRY:  A place where rabbits are kept; especially, a collection of hutches for tame rabbits. 

RABBLE:  An iron bar, with the end bent, used in stirring or skimming molten iron in the process of puddling. 

RABBLE:  Of or pertaining to a rabble; like, or suited to, a rabble; disorderly; vulgar. [R.] Dryden. 

RABBLE:  To speak in a confused manner. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

RABBLE:  To stir or skim with a rabble, as molten iron. 

RABBLEMENT:  A tumultuous crowd of low people; a rabble. "Rude rablement." Spenser.  And still, as he refused it, the rabblement hooted. Shak. 

RABBLER:  A scraping tool for smoothing metal.  RABBLE-ROUT Rab"ble-rout` (-b'l-rout`), n.  A tumultuous crowd; a rabble; a noisy throng. 

RABDOIDAL:  See Sagittal. [Written also rhabdoidal.] 

RABDOLOGY:  The method or art of performing arithmetical operations by means of Napier's bones. See Napier's bones. [Written also rhabdology.] 

RABDOMANCY:  Divination by means of rods or wands. [Written also rhabdomancy.]  Sir T. Browne. 

RABIDITY:  Rabidness; furiousness. 

RABIDLY:  In a rabid manner; with extreme violence. 

RABIDNESS:  The quality or state of being rabid. 

RABIES:  Same as Hydrophobia (b); canine madness. 

RABINET:  A kind of small ordnance formerly in use. [Written also rabanet.] Ainsworth. 

RABIOUS:  Fierce. [Obs.]  Daniel. 

RABOT:  A rubber of hard wood used in smoothing marble to be polished. Knight. 

RACA:  A term of reproach used by the Jews of our Savior's time, meaning "worthless."  Whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council. Matt. v. 22. 

RACAHOUT:  A preparation from acorns used by the Arabs as a substitute for chocolate, and also as a beverage for invalids. 

RACCOON:  A North American nocturnal carnivore (Procyon lotor) allied to the bears, but much smaller, and having a long, full tail, banded with black and gray. Its body is gray, varied with black and white. Called also coon, and mapach.  Raccoon dog (Zoöl.), the tanate. -- Raccoon fox (Zoöl.), the cacomixle. 

RACE:  A root. "A race or two of ginger." Shak. Race ginger, ginger in the root, or not pulverized. 

RACE:  A variety of such fixed character that it may be propagated by seed.  4. Peculiar flavor, taste, or strength, as of wine; that quality, or assemblage of qualities, which indicates origin or kind, as in wine; hence, characteristic flavor; smack. "A race of heaven." Shak. Is it [the wine] of the right race Massinqer.  5. Hence, characteristic quality or disposition. [Obs.] And now I give my sensual race the rein. Shak. Some . . . great race of fancy or judgment. Sir W. Temple.  Syn.  -- Lineage; line; family; house; breed; offspring; progeny; issue. 

RACE:  A channel or guide along which a shuttle is driven back and forth, as in a loom, sewing machine, etc. Race cloth, a cloth worn by horses in racing, having pockets to hold the weights prescribed.  -- Race course. (a) The path, generally circular or elliptical, over which a race is run. (b) Same as Race way, below.  -- Race cup, a cup given as a prize to the victor in a race.  -- Race glass, a kind of field glass.  -- Race horse. (a) A horse that runs in competition; specifically, a horse bred or kept for running races. (b) A breed of horses remarkable for swiftness in running. (c) (Zoöl.) The steamer duck. (d) (Zoöl.) A mantis.  -- Race knife, a cutting tool with a blade that is hooked at the point, for marking outlines, on boards or metals, as by a pattern, -- used in shipbuilding.  -- Race saddle, a light saddle used in racing.  -- Race track. Same as Race course (a), above.  -- Race way, the canal for the current that drives a water wheel. 

RACE:  To run too fast at times, as a marine engine or screw, when the screw is lifted out of water by the action of a heavy sea. 

RACEABOUT:  A small sloop-rigged racing yacht carrying about six hundred square feet of sail, distinguished from a knockabout by having a short bowsprit. 

RACEMATE:  A salt of racemic acid. 

RACEME:  A flower cluster with an elongated axis and many one-flowered lateral pedicels, as in the currant and chokecherry. Compound raceme, one having the lower pedicels developed into secondary racemes. 

RACEMED:  Arranged in a raceme, or in racemes. 

RACEMIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in many kinds of grapes. It is also obtained from tartaric acid, with which it is isomeric, and from sugar, gum, etc., by oxidation. It is a sour white crystalline substance, consisting of a combination of dextrorotatory and levorotatory tartaric acids. Gregory. 

RACEMIFEROUS:  Bearing racemes, as the currant. 

RACEMIFORM:  Having the form of a raceme. Gray. 

RACEMOSE:  Resembling a raceme; growing in the form of a raceme; as, (Bot.) racemose berries or flowers; (Anat.) the racemose glands, in which the ducts are branched and clustered like a raceme. Gray. 

RACEMOUS:  See Racemose. 

RACEMULE:  A little raceme. 

RACEMULOSE:  Growing in very small racemes. 

RACER:  The common American black snake.  3. (Mil.)  One of the circular iron or steel rails on which the chassis of a heavy gun is turned.  RACE SUICIDE Race suicide.  The voluntary failure of the members of a race or people to have a number of children sufficient to keep the birth rate equal to the death rate.  RACH; RACHE Rach, Rache, n. Etym: [AS.ræcc; akin to Icel. rakki.] (Zoöl.)  A dog that pursued his prey by scent, as distinguished from the greyhound.[Obs.] 

RACHIALGIA:  A painful affection of the spine; especially, Pott's disease; also, formerly, lead colic. 

RACHIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the rachis; spinal; vertebral. Same as Rhachidian. 

RACHILLA:  Same as Rhachilla. 

RACHIODONT:  Same as Rhachiodont. 

RACHIS:  The spine; the vertebral column.  2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Same as Rhachis. 

RACHITIC:  Of or pertaining to rachitis; affected by rachitis; rickety. 

RACHITIS:  Literally, inflammation of the spine, but commonly applied to the rickets. See Rickets.  2. (Bot.)  A disease which produces abortion in the fruit or seeds. Henslow. 

RACHITOME:  A dissecting instrument for opening the spinal canal. [Written also rachiotome.] 

RACIAL:  Of or pertaining to a race or family of men; as, the racial complexion. 

RACILY:  In a racy manner. 

RACINESS:  The quality of being racy; peculiar and piquant flavor. The general characteristics of his [Cobbett's] style were perspicuity, unequaled and inimitable; . . . a purity always simple, and raciness often elegant. London Times. 

RACING:  a. & n. from Race, v. t. & i. Racing crab (Zoöl.), an ocypodian. 

RACK:  Same as Arrack. 

RACK:  The neck and spine of a fore quarter of veal or mutton. 

RACK:  A wreck; destruction. [Obs., except in a few phrases.] Rack and ruin, destruction; utter ruin. [Colloq.] -- To go to rack, to perish; to be destroyed. [Colloq.] "All goes to rack." Pepys. 

RACK:  Thin, flying, broken clouds, or any portion of floating vapor in the sky. Shak. The winds in the upper region, which move the clouds above, which we call the rack, . . . pass without noise. Bacon. And the night rack came rolling up. C. Kingsley. 

RACK:  To fly, as vapor or broken clouds. 

RACK:  To amble fast, causing a rocking or swaying motion of the body; to pace; -- said of a horse. Fuller. 

RACK:  A fast amble. 

RACK:  To draw off from the lees or sediment, as wine. It is in common practice to draw wine or beer from the lees (which we call racking), whereby it will clarify much the sooner. Bacon. Rack vintage, wine cleansed and drawn from the lees. Cowell. 

RACK:  A bar with teeth on its face, or edge, to work with those of a wheel, pinion, or worm, which is to drive it or be driven by it.  3. That which is extorted; exaction. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. Mangle rack. (Mach.) See under Mangle. n.  -- Rack block. (Naut.) See def. 1 (f), above.  -- Rack lashing, a lashing or binding where the rope is tightened, and held tight by the use of a small stick of wood twisted around.  -- Rack rail (Railroads), a toothed rack, laid as a rail, to afford a hold for teeth on the driving wheel of locomotive for climbing steep gradients, as in ascending a mountain.  -- Rack saw, a saw having wide teeth.  -- Rack stick, the stick used in a rack lashing.  -- To be on the rack, to suffer torture, physical or mental.  -- To live at rack and manger, to live on the best at another's expense. [Colloq.] -- To put to the rack, to subject to torture; to torment. A fit of the stone puts a kingto the rack, and makes him as miserable as it does the meanest subject. Sir W. Temple. 

RACK:  To wash on a rack, as metals or ore.  5. (Naut.)  To bind together, as two ropes, with cross turns of yarn, marline, etc. To rack one's brains or wits, to exert them to the utmost for the purpose of accomplishing something.  Syn.  -- To torture; torment; rend; tear. 

RACKABONES:  A very lean animal, esp. a horse. [Colloq. U. S.] 

RACKAROCK:  A Sprengel explosive consisting of potassium chlorate and mono- nitrobenzene. 

RACKET:  To strike with, or as with, a racket. Poor man [is] racketed from one temptation to another. Hewyt. 

RACKETER:  One who makes, or engages in, a racket. 

RACKETT:  An old wind instrument of the double bassoon kind, having ventages but not keys.  RACKET-TAIL Rack"et-tail n. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of humming birds of the genus Steganura, having two of the tail feathers very long and racket- shaped.  RACKET-TAILED Rack"et-tailed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having long and spatulate, or racket-shaped, tail feathers. 

RACKETY:  Making a tumultuous noise. 

RACKING:  Spun yarn used in racking ropes.  RACK-RENT Rack"-rent`, n.  A rent of the full annual value of the tenement, or near it; an excessive or unreasonably high rent. Blackstone.  RACK-RENT Rack"-rent`, v. t.  To subject to rack-rent, as a farm or tenant.  RACK-RENTER Rack"-rent`er, n.  1. One who is subjected to playing rack-rent.  2. One who exacts rack-rent. 

RACKTAIL:  An arm attached to a swinging notched arc or rack, to let off the striking mechanism of a repeating clock. 

RACKWORK:  Any mechanism having a rack, as a rack and pinion. 

RACLE:  See Rakel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RACLENESS:  See Rakelness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RACONTEUR:  A relater; a storyteller. 

RACOONDA:  The coypu. 

RACOVIAN:  One of a sect of Socinians or Unitarians in Poland. 

RACQUET:  See Racket. 

RAD:  imp. & p. p. of Read, Rede. Spenser. 

RADDE:  imp. of Read, Rede. Chaucer. 

RADDLE:  To interweave or twist together. Raddling or working it up like basket work. De Foe. 

RADDLE:  A red pigment used in marking sheep, and in some mechanical processes; ruddle. "A ruddle of rouge." Thackeray. 

RADDLE:  To mark or paint with, or as with, raddle. "Whitened and raddled old women." Thackeray. 

RADDOCK:  The ruddock. [Prov. Eng.] 

RADE:  A raid. [Scot.] 

RADEAU:  A float; a raft. Three vessels under sail, and one at anchor, above Split Rock, and behind it the radeau Thunderer. W. Irving. 

RADIAL:  Of or pertaining to a radius or ray; consisting of, or like, radii or rays; radiated; as, (Bot.) radial projections; (Zoöl.) radial vessels or canals; (Anat.) the radial artery. Radial symmetry. (Biol.) See under Symmetry. 

RADIALE:  The bone or cartilage of the carpus which articulates with the radius and corresponds to the scaphoid bone in man.  2. pl. (Zoöl.)  Radial plates in the calyx of a crinoid.  RADIAL ENGINE Radial engine. (Mach.)  An engine, usually an internal-combustion engine of a certain type (the radial type) having several cylinders arranged radially like the spokes of a complete wheel. The semiradial engine has radiating cylinders on only one side of the crank shaft. 

RADIALLY:  In a radial manner. 

RADIAN:  An arc of a circle which is equal to the radius, or the angle measured by such an arc.  RADIANCE; RADIANCY Ra"di*ance, Ra"di*an*cy, n.  The quality of being radiant; brilliancy; effulgence; vivid brightness; as, the radiance of the sun. Girt with omnipotence, with radiance crowned. Milton. What radiancy of glory, What light beyond compare ! Neale.  Syn.  -- Luster; brilliancy; splendor; glare; glitter. 

RADIANT:  Giving off rays; -- said of a bearing; as, the sun radiant; a crown radiant.  5. (Bot.)  Having a raylike appearance, as the large marginal flowers of certain umbelliferous plants; -- said also of the cluster which has such marginal flowers. Radiant energy (Physics), energy given out or transmitted by radiation, as in the case of light and radiant heat.  -- Radiant heat, proceeding in right lines, or directly from the heated body, after the manner of light, in distinction from heat conducted or carried by intervening media.  -- Radiant point. (Astron.) See Radiant, n., 3. 

RADIANT:  The luminous point or object from which light emanates; also, a body radiating light brightly.  2. (Geom.)  A straight line proceeding from a given point, or fixed pole, about which it is conceived to revolve.  3. (Astron.)  The point in the heavens at which the apparent paths of shooting stars meet, when traced backward, or whence they appear to radiate.  RADIANT ENGINE Radiant engine. (Mach.)  A semiradial engine. See Radial engine, above. 

RADIANTLY:  In a radiant manner; with glittering splendor. 

RADIARY:  A radiate. [Obs.] 

RADIATA:  An extensive artificial group of invertebrates, having all the parts arranged radially around the vertical axis of the body, and the various organs repeated symmetrically in each ray or spheromere.  Note: It includes the coelenterates and the echinoderms. Formerly, the group was supposed to be a natural one, and was considered one of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom. 

RADIATE:  Having in a capitulum large ray florets which are unlike the disk florets, as in the aster, daisy, etc.  3. (Zoöl.)  Belonging to the Radiata. 

RADIATE:  One of the Radiata. 

RADIATED:  Belonging to the Radiata. 

RADIATELY:  In a radiate manner; with radiation or divergence from a center.  RADIATE-VEINED Ra"di*ate-veined`, a. (Bot.)  Having the principal veins radiating, or diverging, from the apex of the petiole; -- said of such leaves as those of the grapevine, most maples, and the castor-oil plant. 

RADIATIFORM:  Having the marginal florets enlarged and radiating but not ligulate, as in the capitula or heads of the cornflower, Gray. 

RADIATIVE:  Capable of radiating; acting by radiation. Tyndall. 

RADIATOR:  That which radiates or emits rays, whether of light or heat; especially, that part of a heating apparatus from which the heat is radiated or diffused; as, a stream radiator. 

RADICAL:  Relating, or belonging, to the root, or ultimate source of derivation; as, a radical verbal form.  5. (Math.)  Of or pertaining to a radix or root; as, a radical quantity; a radical sign. See below. Radical axis of two circles. (Geom.) See under Axis.  -- Radical pitch, the pitch or tone with which the utterance of a syllable begins. Rush.  -- Radical quantity (Alg.), a quantity to which the radical sign is prefixed; specifically, a quantity which is not a perfect power of the degree indicated by the radical sign; a surd.  -- Radical sign (Math.), the sign sq. root (originally the letter r, the initial of radix, root), placed before any quantity, denoting that its root is to be extracted; thus, sq. roota, or sq. root(a + b). To indicate any other than the square root, a corresponding figure is placed over the sign; thus cube roota, indicates the third or cube root of a.  -- Radical stress (Elocution), force of utterance falling on the initial part of a syllable or sound.  -- Radical vessels (Anat.), minute vessels which originate in the substance of the tissues.  Syn.  -- Primitive; original; natural; underived; fundamental; entire.  -- Radical, Entire. These words are frequently employed as interchangeable in describing some marked alternation in the condition of things. There is, however, an obvious difference between them. A radical cure, reform, etc., is one which goes to the root of the thing in question; and it is entire, in the sense that, by affecting the root, it affects in a appropriate degree the entire body nourished by the root; but it may not be entire in the sense of making a change complete in its nature, as well as in its extent. Hence, we speak of a radical change; a radical improvement; radical differences of opinion; while an entire change, an entire improvement, an entire difference of opinion, might indicate more than was actually intended. A certain change may be both radical and entire, in every sense. 

RADICAL:  One who advocates radical changes in government or social institutions, especially such changes as are intended to level class inequalities; -- opposed to conservative. In politics they [the Independents] were, to use phrase of their own time. "Root-and-Branch men," or, to use the kindred phrase of our own, Radicals. Macaulay.  3. (Chem.) (a) A characteristic, essential, and fundamental constituent of any compound; hence, sometimes, an atom. As a general rule, the metallic atoms are basic radicals, while the nonmetallic atoms are acid radicals. J. P. Cooke. (b) Specifically, a group of two or more atoms, not completely saturated, which are so linked that their union implies certain properties, and are conveniently regarded as playing the part of a single atom; a residue; -- called also a compound radical. Cf. Residue.  4. (Alg.)  A radical quantity. See under Radical, a. An indicated root of a perfect power of the degree indicated is not a radical but a rational quantity under a radical form. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. )  5. (Anat.)  A radical vessel. See under Radical, a. 

RADICALISM:  The quality or state of being radical; specifically, the doctrines or principles of radicals in politics or social reform. Radicalism means root work; the uprooting of all falsehoods and abuses. F. W. Robertson. 

RADICALNESS:  Quality or state of being radical. 

RADICANT:  Taking root on, or above, the ground; rooting from the stem, as the trumpet creeper and the ivy. 

RADICATE:  Radicated. 

RADICATE:  To take root; to become rooted. Evelyn. 

RADICATE:  To cause to take root; to plant deeply and firmly; to root. Time should . . . rather confirm and radicate in us the remembrance of God's goodness. Barrow. 

RADICATED:  Rooted; specifically: (a) (Bot.) Having roots, or possessing a well-developed root. (b) (Zoöl.) Having rootlike organs for attachment. 

RADICATION:  The disposition of the roots of a plant. 

RADICEL:  A small branch of a root; a rootlet. 

RADICIFLOROUS:  Rhizanthous. 

RADICIFORM:  Having the nature or appearance of a radix or root. 

RADICULAR:  Of or performance to roots, or the root of a plant. 

RADICULE:  A radicle. 

RADICULOSE:  Producing numerous radicles, or rootlets. 

RADII:  pl. of Radius.  RADIO- Ra"di*o-.  A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, a radius or ray; specifically (Anat.), with the radius of the forearm; as, radio-ulnar, radiomuscular, radiocarpal.  RADIO-ACTIVE Ra`di*o-ac"tive, a.  [Radio-+ active.] (Physics)  Capable of luminescence under the action of cathode rays, X rays, or any of the allied forms of radiation. -- Ra`di*o- ac*tiv"i*ty, n. 

RADIOCONDUCTOR:  A substance or device that has its conductivity altered in some way by electric waves, as a coherer.  RADIO-FLAGELLATA Ra`di*o-flag`el*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Radiate, and Flagellata.] (Zoöl.)  A group of Protozoa having both flagella and pseudopodia. 

RADIOGRAPH:  A picture produced by the Röntgen rays upon a sensitive surface, photographic or fluorescent, especially a picture of opaque objects traversed by the rays. 

RADIOGRAPHY:  Art or process of making radiographs. -- Ra`di*o*graph"ic (#), *graph"ic*al (#), a. --Ra`di*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

RADIOLARIA:  Order of rhizopods, usually having a siliceous skeleton, or shell, and sometimes radiating spicules. The pseudopodia project from the body like rays. It includes the polycystines. See Polycystina. 

RADIOLARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Radiolaria.  -- n.  One of the Radiolaria. 

RADIOLI:  The barbs of the radii of a feather; barbules. 

RADIOLITE:  A hippurite. 

RADIOMETER:  A forestaff.  2. (Physics)  An instrument designed for measuring the mechanical effect of radiant energy.  Note: It consists of a number of light discs, blackened on one side, placed at the ends of extended arms, supported on an a pivot in an exhausted glass vessel. When exposed to rays of light or heat, the arms rotate. 

RADIOMETRY:  The use of the radiometer, or the measurement of radiation. -- Ra`di*o*met"ric (#), a. 

RADIOMICROMETER:  A very sensitive modification or application of the thermopile, used for indicating minute changes of radiant heat, or temperature. 

RADIOPHARE:  A radiotelegraphic station serving solely for determining the position of ships. The radius of operation of such stations was restricted by the International Radiotelegraphic Convention (1912) to 30 nautical miles. 

RADIOPHONE:  An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of luminous or thermal rays. It is essentially the same as the photophone. 

RADIOPHONY:  The art or practice of using the radiophone. 

RADIOPTICON:  See Projector, above. 

RADIOSCOPY:  Direct observation of objects opaque to light by means of some other form of radiant energy, as the Röntgen rays. -- Ra`di*o*scop"ic (#), *scop"ic*al (#), a. 

RADIOTELEGRAM:  A message transmitted by radiotelegraph. 

RADIOTELEGRAPH:  A wireless telegraph. 

RADIOTELEGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to radiotelegraphy; employing, or used or employed in, radiotelegraphy. 

RADIOTELEGRAPHY:  Telegraphy using the radiant energy of electrical (Hertzian) waves; wireless telegraphy; -- the term adopted for use by the Radiotelegraphic Convention of 1912. 

RADIOTELEPHONE:  A wireless telephone. -- Ra`di*o*te*leph"o*ny (#), n. 

RADIOTHERAPY:  Treatment of disease by means of Röntgen rays or other forms of radioactivity. 

RADIOTHORIUM:  A radioactive substance apparently formed as a product from thorium. 

RADISH:  The pungent fleshy root of a well-known cruciferous plant (Paphanus sativus); also, the whole plant. Radish fly (Zoöl.), a small two-winged fly (Anthomyia raphani) whose larvæ burrow in radishes. It resembles the onion fly.  -- Rat-tailed radish (Bot.), an herb (Raphanus caudatus) having a long, slender pod, which is sometimes eaten.  -- Wild radish (Bot.), the jointed charlock. 

RADIUM:  An intensely radioactive metallic element found (combined) in minute quantities in pitchblende, and various other uranium minerals. Symbol, Ra; atomic weight, 226.4. Radium was discovered by M. and Mme. Curie, of Paris, who in 1902 separated compounds of it by a tedious process from pitchblende. Its compounds color flames carmine and give a characteristic spectrum. It resembles barium chemically. Radium preparations are remarkable for maintaining themselves at a higher temperature than their surroundings, and for their radiations, which are of three kinds: alpha rays, beta rays, and gamma rays (see these terms). By reason of these rays they ionize gases, affect photographic plates, cause sores on the skin, and produce many other striking effects. Their degree of activity depends on the proportion of radium present, but not on its state of chemical combination or on external conditions.The radioactivity of radium is therefore an atomic property, and is explained as result from a disintegration of the atom. This breaking up occurs in at least seven stages; the successive main products have been studied and are called radium emanation or exradio, radium A, radium B, radium C, etc. (The emanation is a heavy gas, the later products are solids.) These products are regarded as unstable elements, each with an atomic weight a little lower than its predecessor. It is possible that lead is the stable end product. At the same time the light gas helium is formed; it probably consists of the expelled alpha particles. The heat effect mentioned above is ascribed to the impacts of these particles. Radium, in turn, is believed to be formed indirectly by an immeasurably slow disintegration of uranium. 

RADIUS:  A right line drawn or extending from the center of a circle to the periphery; the semidiameter of a circle or sphere.  2. (Anat.)  The preaxial bone of the forearm, or brachium, corresponding to the tibia of the hind limb. See Illust. of Artiodactyla.  Note: The radius is on the same side of the limb as the thumb, or pollex, and in man it so articulated that its lower end is capable of partial rotation about the ulna.  3. (Bot.)  A ray, or outer floret, of the capitulum of such plants as the sunflower and the daisy. See Ray, 2.  4. pl. (Zoöl.) (a) The barbs of a perfect. (b) Radiating organs, or color-markings, of the radiates.  5. The movable limb of a sextant or other angular instrument. Knight. Radius bar (Math.), a bar pivoted at one end, about which it swings, and having its other end attached to a piece which it causes to move in a circular arc.  -- Radius of curvature. See under Curvature.  RADIUS VECTOR Ra"di*us vec"tor.  1. (Math.)  A straight line (or the length of such line) connecting any point, as of a curve, with a fixed point, or pole, round which the straight line turns, and to which it serves to refer the successive points of a curve, in a system of polar coördinates. See Coördinate, n.  2. (Astron.)  An ideal straight line joining the center of an attracting body with that of a body describing an orbit around it, as a line joining the sun and a planet or comet, or a planet and its satellite. 

RADIX:  A primitive, from which spring other words; a radical; a root; an etymon.  2. (Math.) (a) A number or quantity which is arbitrarily made the fundamental number of any system; a base. Thus, 10 is the radix, or base, of the common system of logarithms, and also of the decimal system of numeration. (b) (Alg.) A finite expression, from which a series is derived. [R.] Hutton.  3. (Bot.)  The root of a plant. 

RADULA:  The chitinous ribbon bearing the teeth of mollusks; -- called also lingual ribbon, and tongue. See Odontophore. 

RADULIFORM:  Rasplike; as, raduliform teeth. 

RAFF:  To sweep, snatch, draw, or huddle together; to take by a promiscuous sweep. [Obs.] Causes and effects which I thus raff up together. Carew. 

RAFFAELESQUE:  Raphaelesque. 

RAFFIA:  A fibrous material used for tying plants, said to come from the leaves of a palm tree of the genus Raphia. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).  RAFFIA PALM Raf"fi*a palm.  (a) A pinnate-leaved palm (Raphia ruffia) native of Madagascar, and of considerable economic importance on account of the strong fiber (raffia) obtained from its leafstalks.  (b) The jupati palm. 

RAFFINOSE:  A colorless crystalline slightly sweet substance obtained from the molasses of the sugar beet. 

RAFFISH:  Resembling, or having the character of, raff, or a raff; worthless; low. A sad, raffish, disreputable character. Thackeray. 

RAFFLE:  To engage in a raffle; as, to raffle for a watch. 

RAFFLE:  To dispose of by means of a raffle; -- often followed by off; as, to raffle off a horse. 

RAFFLER:  One who raffles. 

RAFFLESIA:  A genus of stemless, leafless plants, living parasitically upon the roots and stems of grapevines in Malaysia. The flowers have a carrionlike odor, and are very large, in one species (Rafflesia Arnoldi) having a diameter of two or three feet. 

RAFT:  imp. & p. p. of Reave. Spenser. 

RAFT:  A large collection of people or things taken indiscriminately. [Slang, U. S.] "A whole raft of folks." W. D. Howells. Raft bridge. (a) A bridge whose points of support are rafts. (b) A bridge that consists of floating timbers fastened together.  -- Raft duck. Etym: [The name alludes to its swimming in dense flocks.] (Zoöl.) (a) The bluebill, or greater scaup duck; -- called also flock duck. See Scaup. (b) The redhead.  -- Raft port (Naut.), a large, square port in a vessel's side for loading or unloading timber or other bulky articles; a timber or lumber port. 

RAFT:  To transport on a raft, or in the form of a raft; to make into a raft; as, to raft timber. 

RAFTE:  imp. of Reave. Chaucer. 

RAFTER:  A raftsman. 

RAFTER:  Originally, any rough and somewhat heavy piece of timber. Now, commonly, one of the timbers of a roof which are put on sloping, according to the inclination of the roof. See Illust. of Queen-post. [Courtesy] oft is sooner found in lowly sheds, With smoky rafters, than in tapestry halls. Milton. 

RAFTER:  To plow so as to turn the grass side of each furrow upon an unplowed ridge; to ridge. [Eng.] 

RAFTING:  The business of making or managing rafts. 

RAFTSMAN:  A man engaged in rafting. 

RAFTY:  Damp; musty. [Prov. Eng.] 

RAG:  To scold or rail at; to rate; to tease; to torment; to banter. [Prov. Eng.] Pegge. 

RAG:  Hence, mean or tattered attire; worn-out dress. And virtue, though in rags, will keep me warm. Dryden.  3. A shabby, beggarly fellow; a ragamuffin. The other zealous rag is the compositor. B. Jonson. Upon the proclamation, they all came in, both tag and rag. Spenser.  4. (Geol.)  A coarse kind of rock, somewhat cellular in texture.  5. (Metal Working)  A ragged edge.  6. A sail, or any piece of canvas. [Nautical Slang] Our ship was a clipper with every rag set. Lowell. Rag bolt, an iron pin with barbs on its shank to retain it in place.  -- Rag carpet, a carpet of which the weft consists of narrow of cloth sewed together, end to end.  -- Rag dust, fine particles of ground-up rags, used in making papier-maché and wall papers.  -- Rag wheel. (a) A chain wheel; a sprocket wheel. (b) A polishing wheel made of disks of cloth clamped together on a mandrel.  -- Rag wool, wool obtained by tearing woolen rags into fine bits, shoddy. 

RAG:  To become tattered. [Obs.] 

RAG:  An idle, ragged person. Nares. Grose. 

RAGAMUFFIN:  The long-tailed titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

RAGE:  To enrage. [Obs.] Shak. 

RAGEFUL:  Full of rage; expressing rage. [Obs.] "Rageful eyes." Sir P. Sidney. 

RAGERY:  Wantonness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RAGGED:  Ragged; rough. [Obs.] "A stony and raggie hill." Holland. 

RAGHUVANSA:  A celebrated Sanskrit poem having for its subject the Raghu dynasty. 

RAGING:  a. & n. from Rage, v. i.  -- Ra"*ging*ly, adv. 

RAGIOUS:  Raging; furious; rageful. [Obs.] -- Ra"gious*ness, n. [Obs.] 

RAGLAN:  A loose overcoat with large sleeves; -- named from Lord Raglan, an English general. 

RAGMAN:  A man who collects, or deals in, rags. 

RAGMAN:  A document having many names or numerous seals, as a papal bull. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.  RAGMAN'S ROLL Rag"man's roll`. Etym: [For ragman roll a long list of names, the devil's roll or list; where ragman is of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. ragmenni a craven person, Sw. raggen the devil. Icel. ragmenni is fr. ragr cowardly (another form of argr, akin to AS. earg cowardly, vile, G. arg bad) + menni (in comp.) man, akin to E. man. See Roll, and cf. Rigmarole.]  The rolls of deeds on parchment in which the Scottish nobility and gentry subscribed allegiance to Edward I. of England, A. D. 1296. [Also written ragman-roll.]  RAGNAROK; RAGNAROK Rag"na*rok", Rag"na*rök", n. [Icel., fr. regin, rögn, gods + rök reason, origin, history; confused with ragna-rökr the twilight of the gods.] (Norse Myth.)  The so-called "Twilight of the Gods" (called in German Götterdämmerung), the final destruction of the world in the great conflict between the Æsir (gods) on the one hand, and on the other, the gaints and the powers of Hel under the leadership of Loki (who is escaped from bondage). 

RAGOUT:  A dish made of pieces of meat, stewed, and highly seasoned; as, a ragout of mutton. 

RAGPICKER:  One who gets a living by picking up rags and refuse things in the streets. 

RAGTIME:  Time characterized by syncopation, as in many negro melodies. [Colloq.]  RAGULED; RAGGULED Ra*guled", Rag*guled", a. Etym: [Cf. F. raguer to chafe, fret, rub, or E. rag.] (Her.)  Notched in regular diagonal breaks; -- said of a line, or a bearing having such an edge. 

RAGWEED:  A common American composite weed (Ambrosia artemisiæfolia) with finely divided leaves; hogweed. Great ragweed, a coarse American herb (Ambrosia trifida), with rough three-lobed opposite leaves. 

RAGWORK:  A kind of rubblework. In the United States, any rubblework of thin and small stones. 

RAGWORT:  A name given to several species of the composite genus Senecio.  Note: Senecio aureus is the golden ragwort of the United States: S. elegans is the purple ragwort of South Africa. 

RAIA:  A genus of rays which includes the skates. See Skate. 

RAIAE:  The order of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sawfishes, skates, and rays; -- called also Rajæ, and Rajii. 

RAID:  To make a raid upon or into; as, two regiments raided the border counties. 

RAIDER:  One who engages in a raid. [U.S.] 

RAIFFEISEN:  Designating, or pertaining to, a form of coöperative bank founded among the German agrarian population by Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen (1818-88); as, Raiffeisen banks, the Raiffeisen system, etc. The banks are unlimited-liability institutions making small loans at a low rate of interest, for a designated purpose, to worthy members only. 

RAIL:  An outer cloak or covering; a neckerchief for women. Fairholt. 

RAIL:  To flow forth; to roll out; to course. [Obs.] Streams of tears from her fair eyes forth railing. Spenser. 

RAIL:  A horizontal piece in a frame or paneling. See Illust. of Style.  3. (Railroad)  A bar of steel or iron, forming part of the track on which the wheels roll. It is usually shaped with reference to vertical strength, and is held in place by chairs, splices, etc.  4. (Naut.) (a) The stout, narrow plank that forms the top of the bulwarks. (b) The light, fencelike structures of wood or metal at the break of the deck, and elsewhere where such protection is needed. Rail fence. See under Fence.  -- Rail guard. (a) A device attached to the front of a locomotive on each side for clearing the rail obstructions. (b) A guard rail. See under Guard.  -- Rail joint (Railroad), a splice connecting the adjacent ends of rails, in distinction from a chair, which is merely a seat. The two devices are sometimes united. Among several hundred varieties, the fish joint is standard. See Fish joint, under Fish.  -- Rail train (Iron & Steel Manuf.), a train of rolls in a rolling mill, for making rails for railroads from blooms or billets. 

RAIL:  Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds of the family Rallidæ, especially those of the genus Rallus, and of closely allied genera. They are prized as game birds.  Note: The common European water rail (Rallus aquaticus) is called also bilcock, skitty coot, and brook runner. The best known American species are the clapper rail, or salt-marsh hen (Rallus lonqirostris, var. crepitans); the king, or red-breasted, rail (R. elegans) (called also fresh-water marshhen); the lesser clapper, or Virginia, rail (R. Virginianus); and the Carolina, or sora, rail (Porzana Carolina). See Sora. Land rail (Zoöl.), the corncrake. 

RAIL:  To use insolent and reproachful language; to utter reproaches; to scoff; followed by at or against, formerly by on. Shak. And rail at arts he did not understand. Dryden. Lesbia forever on me rails. Swift. 

RAILER:  One who rails; one who scoffs, insults, censures, or reproaches with opprobrious language. 

RAILING:  Expressing reproach; insulting. Angels which are greater in power and might, bring not railing accusation against them. 2 Pet. ii. 11. 

RAILINGLY:  With scoffing or insulting language. 

RAILLERY:  Pleasantry or slight satire; banter; jesting language; satirical merriment. Let raillery be without malice or heat. B. Jonson. Studies employed on low objects; the very naming of them is sufficient to turn them into raillery. Addison. 

RAILLEUR:  A banterer; a jester; a mocker. [R.] Wycherley.  RAILROAD; RAILWAY Rail"road`, Rail"way`, n.  1. A road or way consisting of one or more parallel series of iron or steel rails, patterned and adjusted to be tracks for the wheels of vehicles, and suitably supported on a bed or substructure.  Note: The modern railroad is a development and adaptation of the older tramway.  2. The road, track, etc., with al the lands, buildings, rolling stock, franchises, etc., pertaining to them and constituting one property; as, certain railroad has been put into the hands of a receiver.  Note: Railway is the commoner word in England; railroad the commoner word in the United States.  Note: In the following and similar phrases railroad and railway are used interchangeably: --Atmospheric railway, Elevated railway, etc. See under Atmospheric, Elevated, etc.  -- Cable railway. See Cable road, under Cable.  -- Perry railway, a submerged track on which an elevated platform runs, fro carrying a train of cars across a water course.  -- Gravity railway, a railway, in a hilly country, on which the cars run by gravity down gentle slopes for long distances after having been hauled up steep inclines to an elevated point by stationary engines.  -- Railway brake, a brake used in stopping railway cars or locomotives.  -- Railway car, a large, heavy vehicle with flanged wheels fitted for running on a railway. [U.S.] -- Railway carriage, a railway passenger car. [Eng.] -- Railway scale, a platform scale bearing a track which forms part of the line of a railway, for weighing loaded cars.  -- Railway slide. See Transfer table, under Transfer.  -- Railway spine (Med.), an abnormal condition due to severe concussion of the spinal cord, such as occurs in railroad accidents. It is characterized by ataxia and other disturbances of muscular function, sensory disorders, pain in the back, impairment of general health, and cerebral disturbance, -- the symptoms often not developing till some months after the injury.  -- Underground railroad or railway. (a) A railroad or railway running through a tunnel, as beneath the streets of a city. (b) Formerly, a system of coöperation among certain active antislavery people in the United States, by which fugitive slaves were secretly helped to reach Canada.  Note: [In the latter sense railroad, and not railway, was used.] "Their house was a principal entrepôt of the underground railroad." W. D. Howells. 

RAILROADING:  The construction of a railroad; the business of managing or operating a railroad. [Colloq. U. S.] 

RAIN:  Reign. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RAIN:  Water falling in drops from the clouds; the descent of water from the clouds in drops. Rain is water by the heat of the sun divided into very small parts ascending in the air, till, encountering the cold, it be condensed into clouds, and descends in drops. Ray. Fair days have oft contracted wind and rain. Milton.  Note: Rain is distinguished from mist by the size of the drops, which are distinctly visible. When water falls in very small drops or particles, it is called mist; and fog is composed of particles so fine as to be not only individually indistinguishable, but to float or be suspended in the air. See Fog, and Mist. Rain band (Meteorol.), a dark band in the yellow portion of the solar spectrum near the sodium line, caused by the presence of watery vapor in the atmosphere, and hence sometimes used in weather predictions.  -- Rain bird (Zoöl.), the yaffle, or green woodpecker. [Prov. Eng.] The name is also applied to various other birds, as to Saurothera vetula of the West Indies.  -- Rain fowl (Zoöl.), the channel-bill cuckoo (Scythrops Novæ- Hollandiæ) of Australia.  -- Rain gauge, an instrument of various forms measuring the quantity of rain that falls at any given place in a given time; a pluviometer; an ombrometer.  -- Rain goose (Zoöl.), the red-throated diver, or loon. [Prov. Eng.] -- Rain prints (Geol.), markings on the surfaces of stratified rocks, presenting an appearance similar to those made by rain on mud and sand, and believed to have been so produced.  -- Rain quail. (Zoöl.) See Quail, n., 1.  -- Rain water, water that has fallen from the clouds in rain. 

RAINBOW:  A bow or arch exhibiting, in concentric bands, the several colors of the spectrum, and formed in the part of the hemisphere opposite to the sun by the refraction and reflection of the sun's rays in drops of falling rain.  Note: Besides the ordinary bow, called also primary rainbow, which is formed by two refractions and one reflection, there is also another often seen exterior to it, called the secondary rainbow, concentric with the first, and separated from it by a small interval. It is formed by two refractions and two reflections, is much fainter than the primary bow, and has its colors arranged in the reverse order from those of the latter. Lunar rainbow, a fainter arch or rainbow, formed by the moon.  -- Marine rainbow, or Sea bow, a similar bow seen in the spray of waves at sea.  -- Rainbow trout (Zoöl.), a bright-colored trout (Salmoirideus), native of the mountains of California, but now extensively introduced into the Eastern States. Japan, and other countries; -- called also brook trout, mountain trout, and golden trout.  -- Rainbow wrasse. (Zoöl.) See under Wrasse.  -- Supernumerary rainbow, a smaller bow, usually of red and green colors only, sometimes seen within the primary or without the secondary rainbow, and in contact with them. 

RAINBOWED:  Formed with or like a rainbow. 

RAINDEER:  See Reindeer. [Obs.] 

RAINDROP:  A drop of rain. 

RAINFALL:  A fall or descent of rain; the water, or amount of water, that falls in rain; as, the average annual rainfall of a region. Supplied by the rainfall of the outer ranges of Sinchul and Singaleleh. Hooker. 

RAININESS:  The state of being rainy. 

RAINLESS:  Destitute of rain; as, a rainless region.  RAIN-TIGHT Rain"-tight`, a.  So tight as to exclude rain as, a rain-tight roof. 

RAINY:  Abounding with rain; wet; showery; as, rainy day or season. 

RAIP:  A rope; also, a measure equal to a rod. [Scot.] 

RAIS:  Same as 2d Reis. 

RAISABLE:  Capable of being raised. 

RAISE:  To create or constitute; as, to raise a use that is, to create it. Burrill. To raise a blockade (Mil.), to remove or break up a blockade, either by withdrawing the ships or forces employed in enforcing it, or by driving them away or dispersing them.  -- To raise a check, note, bill of exchange, etc., to increase fraudulently its nominal value by changing the writing, figures, or printing in which the sum payable is specified.  -- To raise a siege, to relinquish an attempt to take a place by besieging it, or to cause the attempt to be relinquished.  -- To raise steam, to produce steam of a required pressure.  -- To raise the wind, to procure ready money by some temporary expedient. [Colloq.] -- To raise Cain, or To raise the devil, to cause a great disturbance; to make great trouble. [Slang]  Syn.  -- To lift; exalt; elevate; erect; originate; cause; produce; grow; heighten; aggravate; excite. 

RAISER:  One who, or that which, raises (in various senses of the verb). 

RAISONNE:  Arranged systematically, or according to classes or subjects; as, a catalogue raisonné. See under Catalogue. 

RAIVEL:  A separator. [Scot.] 

RAJ:  Reign; rule. [India] 

RAJA:  Same as Rajah. 

RAJAH:  A native prince or king; also, a landholder or person of importance in the agricultural districts. [India] 

RAJAHSHIP:  The office or dignity of a rajah.  RAJPOOT; RAJPUT Raj`poot", Raj`put", n. Etym: [Hind. raj-put, Skr. raja-putra king's son.]  A Hindoo of the second, or royal and military, caste; a Kshatriya; especially, an inhabitant of the country of Rajpootana, in northern central India. 

RAKE:  A fissure or mineral vein traversing the strata vertically, or nearly so; -- called also rake-vein. Gill rakes. (Anat.) See under 1st Gill. 

RAKE:  To collect or draw together with laborious industry; to gather from a wide space; to scrape together; as, to rake together wealth; to rake together slanderous tales; to rake together the rabble of a town.  3. To pass a rake over; to scrape or scratch with a rake for the purpose of collecting and clearing off something, or for stirring up the soil; as, to rake a lawn; to rake a flower bed.  4. To search through; to scour; to ransack. The statesman rakes the town to find a plot. Swift.  5. To scrape or scratch across; to pass over quickly and lightly, as a rake does. Like clouds that rake the mountain summits. Wordsworth.  6. (Mil.)  To enfilade; to fire in a direction with the length of; in naval engagements, to cannonade, as a ship, on the stern or head so that the balls range the whole length of the deck. To rake up. (a) To collect together, as the fire (live coals), and cover with ashes. (b) To bring up; to search out an bring to notice again; as, to rake up old scandals. 

RAKE:  To inclination of anything from a perpendicular direction; as, the rake of a roof, a staircase, etc.; especially (Naut.,  the inclination of a mast or tunnel, or, in general, of any part of a vessel not perpendicular to the keel. 

RAKE:  To incline from a perpendicular direction; as, a mast rakes aft. Raking course (Bricklaying), a course of bricks laid diagonally between the face courses in a thick wall, to strengthen. 

RAKE:  A loose, disorderly, vicious man; a person addicted to lewdness and other scandalous vices; a debauchee; a roué. Am illiterate and frivolous old rake. Macaulay. 

RAKE:  To walk about; to gad or ramble idly. [Prov. Eng.]  2. Etym: [See Rake a debauchee.]  To act the rake; to lead a dissolute, debauched life. Shenstone. To rake out (Falconry), to fly too far and wide from its master while hovering above waiting till the game is sprung; -- said of the hawk. Encyc. Brit. 

RAKEHELL:  A lewd, dissolute fellow; a debauchee; a rake. It seldom doth happen, in any way of life, that a sluggard and a rakehell do not go together. Barrow.  RAKEHELL; RAKEHELLY Rake"hell`, Rake"hell`y, a.  Dissolute; wild; lewd; rakish. [Obs.] Spenser. B. Jonson. 

RAKEL:  Hasty; reckless; rash. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- Ra"kel*ness, n. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RAKER:  See Gill rakers, under 1st Gill. 

RAKERY:  Debauchery; lewdness. The rakery and intrigues of the lewd town. R. North. 

RAKESHAME:  A vile, dissolute wretch. [Obs.] Milton. 

RAKESTALE:  The handle of a rake. That tale is not worth a rakestele. Chaucer.  RAKE-VEIN Rake"-vein`, n.  See Rake, a mineral vein.  RAKI; RAKEE Ra`ki", Ra`kee", n. [Turk. rakiarrack.]  A kind of ardent spirits used in southern Europe and the East, distilled from grape juice, grain, etc. 

RAKISH:  Dissolute; lewd; debauched. The arduous task of converting a rakish lover. Macaulay. 

RAKISH:  Having a saucy appearance indicative of speed and dash. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

RAKISHLY:  In a rakish manner. 

RAKISHNESS:  The quality or state of being rakish.  RAKU WARE Ra"ku ware`.  A kind of earthenware made in Japan, resembling Satsuma ware, but having a paler color. 

RALE:  An adventitious sound, usually of morbid origin, accompanying the normal respiratory sounds. See Rhonchus.  Note: Various kinds are distinguished by pathologists; differing in intensity, as loud and small; in quality, as moist, dry, clicking, and sonorous; and in origin, as tracheal, pulmonary, and pleural. 

RALLENTANDO:  Slackening; -- a direction to perform a passage with a gradual decrease in time and force; ritardando. 

RALLIANCE:  The act of rallying. 

RALLIER:  One who rallies. 

RALLIES:  A French political group, also known as the Constitutional Right from its position in the Chambers, mainly monarchists who rallied to the support of the Republic in obedience to the encyclical put forth by Pope Leo XIII. in Feb., 1892. 

RALLINE:  Pertaining to the rails. 

RALLY:  To collect, and reduce to order, as troops dispersed or thrown into confusion; to gather again; to reunite. 

RALLY:  To attack with raillery, either in good humor and pleasantry, or with slight contempt or satire. Honeycomb . . . raillies me upon a country life. Addison. Strephon had long confessed his amorous pain. Which gay Corinna rallied with disdain. Gay.  Syn.  -- To banter; ridicule; satirize; deride; mock. 

RALLY:  To use pleasantry, or satirical merriment. 

RALLY:  Good-humored raillery. 

RALPH:  A name sometimes given to the raven. 

RALSTONITE:  A fluoride of alumina and soda occurring with the Greenland cryolite in octahedral crystals. 

RAMAGE:  Wild; untamed. [Obs.] 

RAMAGIOUS:  Wild; not tame. [Obs.] Now is he tame that was so ramagious. Remedy of Love. 

RAMAL:  Of or pertaining to a ramus, or branch; rameal. 

RAMAYANA:  The more ancient of the two great epic poems in Sanskrit. The hero and heroine are Rama and his wife Sita. 

RAMBERGE:  Formerly, a kind of large war galley. 

RAMBLE:  A bed of shale over the seam. Raymond. 

RAMBLER:  One who rambles; a rover; a wanderer. 

RAMBLING:  Roving; wandering; discursive; as, a rambling fellow, talk, or building. 

RAMBLINGLY:  In a rambling manner. 

RAMBOOZE:  A beverage made of wine, ale (or milk), sugar, etc. [Obs.] Blount. 

RAMBUTAN:  A Malayan fruit produced by the tree Nephelium lappaceum, and closely related to the litchi nut. It is bright red, oval in shape, covered with coarse hairs (whence the name), and contains a pleasant acid pulp. Called also ramboostan. 

RAMEAL:  Same as Ramal. Gray. 

RAMEAN:  A Ramist. Shipley. 

RAMED:  Having the frames, stem, and sternpost adjusted; -- said of a ship on the stocks. 

RAMEE:  See Ramie. 

RAMEKIN:  See Ramequin. [Obs.] 

RAMENTA:  Thin brownish chaffy scales upon the leaves or young shoots of some plants, especially upon the petioles and leaves of ferns. Gray. 

RAMENTACEOUS:  Covered with ramenta. 

RAMEOUS:  Ramal. 

RAMEQUIN:  A mixture of cheese, eggs, etc., formed in a mold, or served on bread. [Written also ramekin.] 

RAMIE:  The grasscloth plant (Boehmeria nivea); also, its fiber, which is very fine and exceedingly strong; -- called also China grass, and rhea. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass. 

RAMIFLOROUS:  Flowering on the branches. 

RAMIFORM:  Having the form of a branch. 

RAMIFY:  To divide into branches or subdivisions; as, to ramify an art, subject, scheme. 

RAMIGEROUS:  Bearing branches; branched. 

RAMIPAROUS:  Producing branches; ramigerous. 

RAMIST:  A follower of Pierre Ramé, better known as Ramus, a celebrated French scholar, who was professor of rhetoric and philosophy at Paris in the reign of Henry II., and opposed the Aristotelians. 

RAMLINE:  A line used to get a straight middle line, as on a spar, or from stem to stern in building a vessel. 

RAMMEL:  Refuse matter. [Obs.] Filled with any rubbish, rammel and broken stones. Holland. 

RAMMER:  One who, or that which, rams or drives. Specifically: (a) An instrument for driving anything force; as, a rammer for driving stones or piles, or for beating the earth to more solidity. (b) A rod for forcing down the charge of a gun; a ramrod. (c) (Founding) An implement for pounding the sand of a mold to render it compact. 

RAMMISH:  Like a ram; hence, rank; lascivious. "Their savor is so rammish." Chaucer. 

RAMMISHNESS:  The quality of being rammish. 

RAMMY:  Like a ram; rammish. Burton. 

RAMOLLESCENCE:  A softening or mollifying. [R.] 

RAMOON:  A small West Indian tree (Trophis Americana) of the Mulberry family, whose leaves and twigs are used as fodder for cattle. 

RAMOSE:  Branched, as the stem or root of a plant; having lateral divisions; consisting of, or having, branches; full of branches; ramifying; branching; branchy. 

RAMOUS:  Ramose. 

RAMP:  An inclined plane serving as a communication between different interior levels. 

RAMPACIOUS:  High-spirited; rampageous. [Slang] Dickens. 

RAMPAGE:  Violent or riotous behavior; a state of excitement, passion, or debauchery; as, to be on the rampage. [Prov. or Low.] Dickens. 

RAMPAGE:  To leap or prance about, as an animal; to be violent; to rage. [Prov. or Low] 

RAMPAGEOUS:  Characterized by violence and passion; unruly; rampant. [Prov. or Low] In the primitive ages of a rampageous antiquity. Galt. 

RAMPALLIAN:  A mean wretch. [Obs.] Shak. 

RAMPANCY:  The quality or state of being rampant; excessive action or development; exuberance; extravagance. "They are come to this height and rampancy of vice." South. 

RAMPANT:  Rising with fore paws in the air as if attacking; -- said of a beast of prey, especially a lion. The right fore leg and right hind leg should be raised higher than the left. Rampant arch. (a) An arch which has one abutment higher than the other. (b) Same as Rampant vault, below.  -- Rampant gardant (Her.), rampant, but with the face turned to the front.  -- Rampant regardant, rampant, but looking backward.  -- Rampant vault (Arch.), a continuous wagon vault, or cradle vault, whose two abutments are located on an inclined planed plane, such as the vault supporting a stairway, or forming the ceiling of a stairway. 

RAMPANTLY:  In a rampant manner. 

RAMPART:  A broad embankment of earth round a place, upon which the parapet is raised. It forms the substratum of every permanent fortification. Mahan.  Syn.  -- Bulwark; fence; security; guard.  -- Rampart, Bulwark. These words were formerly interchanged; but in modern usage a distinction has sprung up between them. The rampart of a fortified place is the enceinte or main embankment or wall which surrounds it. The term bulwark is now applied to peculiarly strong outworks which project for the defense of the rampart, or main work. A single bastion is a bulwark. In using these words figuratively, rampart is properly applied to that which protects by walling out; bulwark to that which stands in the forefront of danger, to meet and repel it. Hence, we speak of a distinguished individual as the bulwark, not the rampart, of the state. This distinction, however, is often disregarded. 

RAMPART:  To surround or protect with, or as with, a rampart or ramparts. Those grassy hills, those glittering dells, Proudly ramparted with rocks. Coleridge. Rampart gun (Fort.), a cannon or large gun for use on a rampart and not as a fieldpiece. 

RAMPE:  The cuckoopint. 

RAMPIER:  See Rampart. [Obs.] 

RAMPION:  A plant (Campanula Rapunculus) of the Bellflower family, with a tuberous esculent root; -- also called ramps.  Note: The name is sometimes given to plants of the genus Phyteuma, herds of the Bellflower family, and to the American evening primrose (Enothera biennis), which has run wild in some parts of Europe. 

RAMPIRE:  A rampart. [Archaic] The Trojans round the place a rampire cast. Dryden. 

RAMPIRE:  To fortify with a rampire; to form into a rampire. [Archaic] Chapman. "Rampired walls of gold." R. Browning. 

RAMPLER:  A rambler. 

RAMPLER:  Roving; rambling. [Scot.] 

RAMROD:  The rod used in ramming home the charge in a muzzle-loading firearm. 

RAMSHACKLE:  Loose; disjointed; falling to pieces; out of repair. There came . . . my lord the cardinal, in his ramshackle coach. Thackeray. 

RAMSHACKLE:  To search or ransack; to rummage. [Prov. Eng.] 

RAMSON:  A broad-leaved species of garlic (Allium ursinum), common in European gardens; -- called also buckram. 

RAMSTED:  A yellow-flowered weed; -- so named from a Mr. Ramsted who introduced it into Pennsylvania. See Toad flax. Called also Ramsted weed. 

RAMTIL:  A tropical African asteraceous shrub (Guizotia abyssinica) cultivated for its seeds (called ramtil, or niger, seeds) which yield a valuable oil used for food and as an illuminant. 

RAMULOSE:  Having many small branches, or ramuli. 

RAMULOUS:  Ramulose. 

RAMULUS:  A small branch, or branchlet, of corals, hydroids, and similar organisms. 

RAMUS:  A branch; a projecting part or prominent process; a ramification. 

RAMUSCULE:  A small ramus, or branch. 

RAN:  imp. of Run. 

RAN:  Open robbery. [Obs.] Lambarde. 

RAN:  Yarns coiled on a spun-yarn winch. 

RANA:  A genus of anurous batrachians, including the common frogs. 

RANAL:  Having a general affinity to ranunculaceous plants. Ranal alliance (Bot.), a name proposed by Lindley for a group of natural orders, including Ranunculaceæ, Magnoliaceæ, Papaveraceæ, and others related to them. 

RANCESCENT:  Becoming rancid or sour. 

RANCH:  To wrench; to tear; to sprain; to injure by violent straining or contortion. [R.] Dryden. "Hasting to raunch the arrow out." Spenser. 

RANCH:  A tract of land used for grazing and rearing of horses, cattle, or sheep. See Rancho, 2. [Western U. S.] 

RANCHMAN:  An owner or occupant of, or laborer on, a ranch; a herdsman. [Western U. S.] 

RANCID:  Having a rank smell or taste, from chemical change or decomposition; musty; as, rancid oil or butter. 

RANCIDITY:  The quality or state of being rancid; a rancid scent or flavor, as of old oil. Ure. 

RANCIDLY:  In a rancid manner. 

RANCIDNESS:  The quality of being rancid. 

RANCOR:  The deepest malignity or spite; deep-seated enmity or malice; inveterate hatred. "To stint rancour and dissencioun." Chaucer. It would not be easy to conceive the passion, rancor, and malice of their tongues and hearts. Burke.  Syn.  -- Enmity; hatred; ill will; malice; spite; grudge; animosity; malignity.  -- Rancor, Enmity. Enmity and rancor both describe hostile feelings; but enmity may be generous and open, while rancor implies personal malice of the worst and most enduring nature, and is the strongest word in our language to express hostile feelings. Rancor will out; proud prelate, in thy face I see thy fury. Shak. Rancor is that degree of malice which preys upon the possessor. Cogan. 

RANCOROUS:  Full of rancor; evincing, or caused by, rancor; deeply malignant; implacably spiteful or malicious; intensely virulent. So flamed his eyes with rage and rancorous ire. Spenser. 

RANCOROUSLY:  In a rancorous manner. 

RAND:  To rant; to storm. [Obs.] I wept, . . . and raved, randed, and railed. J. Webster.  RANDALL GRASS Ran"dall grass`. (Bot.)  The meadow fescue (Festuca elatior). See under Grass. 

RANDAN:  The product of a second sifting of meal; the finest part of the bran. [Prov. Eng.] 

RANDAN:  A boat propelled by three rowers with four oars, the middle rower pulling two. 

RANDING:  The act or process of making and applying rands for shoes.  2. (Mil.)  A kind of basket work used in gabions. 

RANDOM:  The direction of a rake-vein. Raymond. 

RANDOM:  Going at random or by chance; done or made at hazard, or without settled direction, aim, or purpose; hazarded without previous calculation; left to chance; haphazard; as, a random guess. Some random truths he can impart. Wordsworth. So sharp a spur to the lazy, and so strong a bridle to the random. H. Spencer. Random courses (Masonry), courses of unequal thickness.  -- Random shot, a shot not directed or aimed toward any particular object, or a shot with the muzzle of the gun much elevated.  -- Random work (Masonry), stonework consisting of stones of unequal sizes fitted together, but not in courses nor always with flat beds. 

RANDOMLY:  In a random manner. 

RANDON:  Random. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RANDON:  To go or stray at random. [Obs.] 

RANEDEER:  See Reindeer. [Obs.] 

RANEE:  Same as Rani. 

RANFORCE:  See Reënforce. [Obs.] Bailey. 

RANG:  imp. of Ring, v. t. & i. 

RANGE:  To be native to, or to live in; to frequent. 

RANGE:  To be native to, or live in, a certain district or region; as, the peba ranges from Texas to Paraguay.  Syn.  -- To rove; roam; ramble; wander; stroll. 

RANGE:  The region within which a plant or animal naturally lives.  11. (Gun.) (a) The horizontal distance to which a shot or other projectile is carried. (b) Sometimes, less properly, the trajectory of a shot or projectile. (c) A place where shooting, as with cannons or rifles, is practiced.  12. In the public land system of the United States, a row or line of townships lying between two succession meridian lines six miles apart.  Note: The meridians included in each great survey are numbered in order east and west from the "principal meridian" of that survey, and the townships in the range are numbered north and south from the "base line," which runs east and west; as, township No. 6, N., range 7, W., from the fifth principal meridian.  13. (Naut.)  See Range of cable, below. Range of accommodation (Optics), the distance between the near point and the far point of distinct vision, -- usually measured and designated by the strength of the lens which if added to the refracting media of the eye would cause the rays from the near point to appear as if they came from the far point.  -- Range finder (Gunnery), an instrument, or apparatus, variously constructed, for ascertaining the distance of an inaccessible object, -- used to determine what elevation must be given to a gun in order to hit the object; a position finder.  -- Range of cable (Naut.), a certain length of slack cable ranged along the deck preparatory to letting go the anchor.  -- Range work (Masonry), masonry of squared stones laid in courses each of which is of even height throughout the length of the wall; -- distinguished from broken range work, which consists of squared stones laid in courses not continuously of even height.  -- To get the range of (an object) (Gun.), to find the angle at which the piece must be raised to reach (the object) without carrying beyond. 

RANGEMENT:  Arrangement. [Obs.] Waterland. 

RANGERSHIP:  The office of the keeper of a forest or park. [Eng.] 

RANGLE:  To range about in an irregular manner. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

RANGY:  Inclined or able to range, or rove about, for considerable distances; apt or suited for much roving, --chiefly used of cattle. 

RANI:  A queen or princess; the wife of a rajah. [Written also ranee.] [India] 

RANINE:  Of or pertaining to the frogs and toads.  2. (Anat.)  Pertaining to, or designating, a swelling under the tongue; also, pertaining to the region where the swelling occurs; -- applied especially to branches of the lingual artery and lingual vein. 

RANK:  Rankly; stoutly; violently. [Obs.] That rides so rank and bends his lance so fell. Fairfax. 

RANK:  A line of soldiers ranged side by side; -- opposed to file. See 1st File, 1 (a). Fierce, fiery warriors fought upon the clouds, In ranks and squadrons and right form of war. Shak.  3. Grade of official standing, as in the army, navy, or nobility; as, the rank of general; the rank of admiral.  4. An aggregate of individuals classed together; a permanent social class; an order; a division; as, ranks and orders of men; the highest and the lowest ranks of men, or of other intelligent beings.  5. Degree of dignity, eminence, or excellence; position in civil or social life; station; degree; grade; as, a writer of the first rank; a lawyer of high rank. These all are virtues of a meaner rank. Addison.  6. Elevated grade or standing; high degree; high social position; distinction; eminence; as, a man of rank. Rank and file. (a) (Mil.) The whole body of common soldiers, including also corporals. In a more extended sense, it includes sergeants also, excepting the noncommissioned staff. (b) See under 1st File.  -- The ranks, the order or grade of common soldiers; as, to reduce a noncommissioned officer to the ranks.  -- To fill the ranks, to supply the whole number, or a competent number.  -- To take rank of, to have precedence over, or to have the right of taking a higher place than.pull rank, to insist on one's own prerogative or plan of action, by right of a higher rank than that of one suggesting a different plan 

RANKER:  One who ranks, or disposes in ranks; one who arranges. 

RANKLE:  To cause to fester; to make sore; to inflame. [R.] Beau. & Fl. 

RANKLY:  With rank or vigorous growth; luxuriantly; hence, coarsely; grossly; as, weeds grow rankly. 

RANKNESS:  The condition or quality of being rank. 

RANNEL:  A prostitute. [Obs.] 

RANNY:  The erd shrew. [Scot.] 

RANSACK:  To make a thorough search. To ransack in the tas [heap] of bodies dead. Chaucer. 

RANSACK:  The act of ransacking, or state of being ransacked; pillage. [R.] Even your father's house Shall not be free fromransack. J. Webster. 

RANSOM:  A sum paid for the pardon of some great offense and the discharge of the offender; also, a fine paid in lieu of corporal punishment. Blackstone. Ransom bill (Law), a war contract, valid by the law of nations, for the ransom of property captured at sea and its safe conduct into port. Kent. 

RANSOMABLE:  Such as can be ransomed. 

RANSOMER:  One who ransoms or redeems. 

RANSOMLESS:  Incapable of being ransomed; without ransom. Shak. 

RANT:  To rave in violent, high-sounding, or extravagant language, without dignity of thought; to be noisy, boisterous, and bombastic in talk or declamation; as, a ranting preacher. Look where my ranting host of the Garter comes! Shak. 

RANT:  High-sounding language, without importance or dignity of thought; boisterous, empty declamation; bombast; as, the rant of fanatics. This is a stoical rant, without any foundation in the nature of man or reason of things. Atterbury. 

RANTERISM:  The practice or tenets of the Ranters. 

RANTINGLY:  In a ranting manner. 

RANTIPOLE:  A wild, romping young person. [Low] Marrya 

RANTIPOLE:  Wild; roving; rakish. [Low] 

RANTIPOLE:  To act like a rantipole. [Low] She used to rantipole about the house. Arbuthnot. 

RANTISM:  Ranterism. 

RANTY:  Wild; noisy; boisterous. 

RANULA:  A cyst formed under the tongue by obstruction of the duct of the submaxillary gland. 

RANUNCULACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Ranunculaceæ), of which the buttercup is the type, and which includes also the virgin's bower, the monkshood, larkspur, anemone, meadow rue, and peony. 

RANUNCULUS:  A genus of herbs, mostly with yellow flowers, including crowfoot, buttercups, and the cultivated ranunculi (R. Asiaticus, R. aconitifolius, etc.) in which the flowers are double and of various colors.  RANZ DES VACHES Ranz" des` vaches". Etym: [F., the ranks or rows of cows, the name being given from the fact that the cattle, when answering the musical call of their keeper, move towards him in a row, preceded by those wearing bells.]  The name for numerous simple, but very irregular, melodies of the Swiss mountaineers, blown on a long tube called the Alpine horn, and sometimes sung. 

RAP:  A lay or skein containing 120 yards of yarn. Knight. 

RAP:  To strike with a quick, sharp blow; to knock; as, to rap on the door. 

RAP:  To free (a pattern) in a mold by light blows on the pattern, so as to facilitate its removal. 

RAP:  A quick, smart blow; a knock. 

RAP:  A popular name for any of the tokens that passed current for a half-penny in Ireland in the early part of the eighteenth century; any coin of trifling value. Many counterfeits passed about under the name of raps. Swift. Tie it [her money] up so tight that you can't touch a rap, save with her consent. Mrs. Alexander. Not to care a rap, to care nothing.  -- Not worth a rap, worth nothing. 

RAPACES:  Same as Accipitres. 

RAPAREE:  See Rapparee. 

RAPE:  Sexual connection with a woman without her consent. See Age of consent, under Consent, n. statutory rape.  3. That which is snatched away. [Obs.] Where now are all my hopes O, never more. Shall they revive! nor death her rapes restore. Sandys.  4. Movement, as in snatching; haste; hurry. [Obs.] rape of the land by mining companies. 

RAPE:  To commit rape upon; to ravish. raped first by their assailant, and then by the Justice system. Corresponds to 2nd rape, n. 5. To rape and ren. See under Rap, v. t., to snatch. 

RAPE:  To rob; to pillage. [Obs.] Heywood. 

RAPE:  One of six divisions of the county of Sussex, England, intermediate between a hundred and a shire. 

RAPE:  A name given to a variety or to varieties of a plant of the turnip kind, grown for seeds and herbage. The seeds are used for the production of rape oil, and to a limited extent for the food of cage birds.  Note: These plants, with the edible turnip, have been variously named, but are all now believed to be derived from the Brassica campestris of Europe, which by some is not considered distinct from the wild stock (B. oleracea) of the cabbage. See Cole. Broom rape. (Bot.) See Broom rape, in the Vocabulary.  -- Rape cake, the refuse remaining after the oil has been expressed from the seed.  -- Rape root. Same as Rape.  -- Summer rape. (Bot.) See Colza. 

RAPFULLY:  Violently. [Obs.] 

RAPHAELESQUE:  Like Raphael's works; in Raphael's manner of painting. 

RAPHAELISM:  The principles of painting introduced by Raphael, the Italian painter. 

RAPHAELITE:  One who advocates or adopts the principles of Raphaelism. 

RAPHANY:  A convulsive disease, attended with ravenous hunger, not uncommon in Sweden and Germany. It was so called because supposed to be caused by eating corn with which seeds of jointed charlock (Raphanus raphanistrum) had been mixed, but the condition is now known to be a form of ergotism. 

RAPHE:  A line, ridge, furrow, or band of fibers, especially in the median line; as, the raphe of the tongue.  2. (Bot.)  Same as Rhaph. 

RAPHIDES:  See Rhaphides. 

RAPID:  The part of a river where the current moves with great swiftness, but without actual waterfall or cascade; -- usually in the plural; as, the Lachine rapids in the St. Lawrence. Row, brothers, row the stream runs fast, The rapids are near, and the daylight's past. Moore.  RAPID-FIRE; RAPID-FIRING Rap"id-fire`, Rap"id-fir`ing, a.  (a) (Gun.) Firing shots in rapid succession.  (b) (Ordnance) Capable of being fired rapidly; -- applied to single- barreled guns of greater caliber than small arms, mounted so as to be quickly trained and elevated, with a quick-acting breech mechanism operated by a single motion of a crank or lever (abbr. R. F.); specif.: (1)  In the United States navy, designating such a gun using fixed ammunition or metallic cartridge cases; -- distinguished from breech- loading (abbr. B. L.), applied to all guns loading with the charge in bags, and formerly from quick-fire. Rapid-fire guns in the navy also sometimes include automatic or semiautomatic rapid-fire guns; the former being automatic guns of not less than one inch caliber, firing a shell of not less than one pound weight, the explosion of each cartridge operating the mechanism for ejecting the empty shell, loading, and firing the next shot, the latter being guns that require one operation of the hand at each discharge, to load the gun. (2)  In the United States army, designating such a gun, whether using fixed or separate ammunition, designed chiefly for use in coast batteries against torpedo vessels and the lightly armored batteries or other war vessels and for the protection of defensive mine fields; -- not distinguished from quick-fire. (3)  In Great Britain and Europe used, rarely, as synonymous with quick-fire.  RAPID-FIRE MOUNT Rapid-fire mount. (Ordnance)  A mount permitting easy and quick elevation or depression and training of the gun, and fitting with a device for taking up the recoil. 

RAPIDITY:  The quality or state of being rapid; swiftness; celerity; velocity; as, the rapidity of growth or improvement.  Syn.  -- -- Rapidness; haste; speed; celerity; velocity; swiftness; fleetness; quickness; agility. 

RAPIDLY:  In a rapid manner. 

RAPIDNESS:  Quality of being rapid; rapidity. 

RAPIER:  A straight sword, with a narrow and finely pointed blade, used only for thrusting. Rapier fish (Zoöl.), the swordfish. [Obs.] Grew. 

RAPIERED:  Wearing a rapier. "Scarletcoated, rapiered figures." Lowell. 

RAPILLI:  Lapilli. 

RAPINE:  To plunder. Sir G. Buck. 

RAPINOUS:  Given to rapine. [Obs.] 

RAPPAGE:  The enlargement of a molt caused by rapping the pattern. 

RAPPAREE:  A wild Irish plunderer, esp. one of the 17th century; -- so called from his carrying a half-pike, called a rapary. [Written also raparee.] 

RAPPED:  imp. & p. p. of Rap, to strike. 

RAPPED:  imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away. 

RAPPEE:  A pungent kind of snuff made from the darker and ranker kinds of tobacco leaves. 

RAPPEL:  The beat of the drum to call soldiers to arms. 

RAPPORT:  Relation; proportion; conformity; correspondence; accord. 'T is obvious what rapport there is between the conceptions and languages in every country. Sir W. Temple. En` rap`port" ( Etym: [F.], in accord, harmony, or sympathy; having a mutual, especially a private, understanding; in mesmerism, in that relation of sympathy which permits influence or communication. 

RAPPROCHEMENT:  Act or fact of coming or being drawn near or together; establishment or state of cordial relations.  He had witnessed the gradual rapprochement between the papacy and Austria. Wilfrid Ward. 

RAPSCALLION:  A rascal; a good-for-nothing fellow. [Colloq.] Howitt. 

RAPT:  imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away. 

RAPTER:  A raptor. [Obs.] Drayton. 

RAPTOR:  A ravisher; a plunderer. [Obs.] 

RAPTORES:  Same as Accipitres. Called also Raptatores. 

RAPTORIOUS:  Raptorial. 

RAPTURE:  To transport with excitement; to enrapture. [Poetic] Thomson. 

RAPTURIST:  An enthusiast. [Obs.] J. Spencer. 

RAPTURIZE:  To put, or be put, in a state of rapture. [R.] 

RAPTUROUS:  Ecstatic; transporting; ravishing; feeling, expressing, or manifesting rapture; as, rapturous joy, pleasure, or delight; rapturous applause. 

RAPTUROUSLY:  In a rapturous manner. 

RARE:  Early. [Obs.] Rude mechanicals that rare and late Work in the market place. Chapman. 

RARE:  Nearly raw; partially cooked; not thoroughly cooked; underdone; as, rare beef or mutton. New-laid eggs, which Baucis' busy care Turned by a gentle fire, and roasted rare. Dryden.  Note: This word is in common use in the United States, but in England its synonym underdone is preferred. 

RAREBIT:  A dainty morsel; a Welsh rabbit. See Welsh rabbit, under Rabbit.  RAREE-SHOW Rar"ee-show`, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. rarity-show.]  A show carried about in a box; a peep show. Pope. 

RAREFACTION:  The act or process of rarefying; the state of being rarefied; - - opposed to condensation; as, the rarefaction of air. 

RAREFIABLE:  Capable of being rarefied. Boyle. 

RAREFY:  To make rare, thin, porous, or less dense; to expand or enlarge without adding any new portion of matter to; -- opposed to condense. 

RAREFY:  To become less dense; to become thin and porous. "Earth rarefies to dew." Dryden. 

RARENESS:  The state or quality of being rare. And let the rareness the small gift commend. Dryden. 

RARERIPE:  Early ripe; ripe before others, or before the usual season. 

RARERIPE:  An early ripening fruit, especially a kind of freestone peach. 

RARIFICATION:  See Rarefaction. [R.] Am. Chem. Journal. 

RAS:  See 2d Reis. 

RASANTE:  Sweeping; grazing; -- applied to a style of fortification in which the command of the works over each other, and over the country, is kept very low, in order that the shot may more effectually sweep or graze the ground before them. H. L. Scott. 

RASCAL:  Of or pertaining to the common herd or common people; low; mean; base. "The rascal many." Spencer. "The rascal people." Shak. While she called me rascal fiddler. Shak. 

RASCALDOM:  State of being a rascal; rascality; domain of rascals; rascals, collectively. Emerson. 

RASCALESS:  A female rascal. [Humorous] 

RASCALLION:  A low, mean wretch [Written also rascalion.] 

RASCALLY:  Like a rascal; trickish or dishonest; base; worthless; -- often in humorous disparagement, without implication of dishonesty. Our rascally porter is fallen fast asleep. Swift. 

RASE:  To be leveled with the ground; to fall; to suffer overthrow. [Obs.] 

RASE:  A way of measuring in which the commodity measured was made even with the top of the measuring vessel by rasing, or striking off, all that was above it. Burrill. 

RASH:  A fine eruption or efflorescence on the body, with little or no elevation. Canker rash. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Nettle rash. See Urticaria.  -- Rose rash. See Roseola.  -- Tooth rash. See Red-gum. 

RASH:  An inferior kind of silk, or mixture of silk and worsted. [Obs.] Donne. 

RASH:  To prepare with haste. [Obs.] Foxe. 

RASHER:  A California rockfish (Sebastichthys miniatus). 

RASHFUL:  Rash; hasty; precipitate. [Obs.] 

RASHLING:  A rash person. [Obs.] 

RASHLY:  In a rush manner; with precipitation. He that doth anything rashly, must do it willingly; for he was free to deliberate or not. L'Estrange. 

RASHNESS:  The quality of state of being rash. We offend . . . by rashness, which is an affirming or denying, before we have sufficiently informed ourselves. South.  Syn.  -- Temerity; foolhardiness; precipitancy; precipitation; hastiness; indiscretion; heedlessness; inconsideration; carelessness. See Temerity. 

RASKOLNIK:  One of the separatists or dissenters from the established or Greek church in Russia. [Written also rascolnik.] 

RASORES:  An order of birds; the Gallinæ.  Note: Formely, the word Rasores was used in a wider sense, so as to include other birds now widely separated in classification. 

RASORIAL:  Of or pertaining to the Rasores, or gallinaceous birds, as the peacock, domestic fowl, patridge, and the like. 

RASOUR:  Rasor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RASPATORIUM:  See Raspatory. 

RASPATORY:  A surgeon's rasp. Wiseman. 

RASPER:  One who, or which, rasps; a scraper. 

RASPIS:  The raspberry. [Obs.] Langham. 

RASPY:  Like a rasp, or the sound made by a rasp; grating. R. D. Blackmore. 

RASSE:  A carnivore (Viverricula Mallaccensis) allied to the civet but smaller, native of China and the East Indies. It furnishes a perfume resembling that of the civet, which is highly prized by the Javanese. Called also Malacca weasel, and lesser civet. 

RAT:  One of the several species of small rodents of the genus Mus and allied genera, larger than mice, that infest houses, stores, and ships, especially the Norway, or brown, rat (M. Alexandrinus). These were introduced into Anerica from the Old World.  2. A round and tapering mass of hair, or similar material, used by women to support the puffs and rolls of their natural hair. [Local, U.S.]  3. One who deserts his party or associates; hence, in the trades, one who works for lower wages than those prescribed by a trades union. [Cant]  Note: "It so chanced that, not long after the accession of the house of Hanover, some of the brown, that is the German or Norway, rats, were first brought over to this country (in some timber as is said); and being much stronger than the black, or, till then, the common, rats, they in many places quite extirpated the latter. The word (both the noun and the verb to rat) was first, as we have seen, leveled at the converts to the government of George the First, but has by degrees obtained a wide meaning, and come to be applied to any sudden and mercenary change in politics." Lord Mahon. Bamboo rat (Zoöl.), any Indian rodent of the genus Rhizomys.  -- Beaver rat, Coast rat. (Zoöl.) See under Beaver and Coast.  -- Blind rat (Zoöl.), the mole rat.  -- Cotton rat (Zoöl.), a long-haired rat (Sigmodon hispidus), native of the Southern United States and Mexico. It makes its nest of cotton and is often injurious to the crop.  -- Ground rat. See Ground Pig, under Ground.  -- Hedgehog rat. See under Hedgehog.  -- Kangaroo rat (Zoöl.), the potoroo.  -- Norway rat (Zoöl.), the common brown rat. See Rat.  -- Pouched rat. (Zoöl.) (a) See Pocket Gopher, under Pocket. (b) Any African rodent of the genus Cricetomys. Rat Indians (Ethnol.), a tribe of Indians dwelling near Fort Ukon, Alaska. They belong to Athabascan stock.  -- Rat mole. (Zoöl.) See Mole rat, under Mole.  -- Rat pit, an inclosed space into which rats are put to be killed by a dog for sport.  -- Rat snake (Zoöl.), a large colubrine snake (Ptyas mucosus) very common in India and Ceylon. It enters dwellings, and destroys rats, chickens, etc.  -- Spiny rat (Zoöl.), any South America rodent of the genus Echinomys.  -- To smell a rat. See under Smell.  -- Wood rat (Zoöl.), any American rat of the genus Neotoma, especially N. Floridana, common in the Southern United States. Its feet and belly are white. 

RATA:  A New Zealand forest tree (Metrosideros robusta), also, its hard dark red wood, used by the Maoris for paddles and war clubs. 

RATABILITY:  The quality or state of being ratable. 

RATAFIA:  A spirituous liquor flavored with the kernels of cherries, apricots, peaches, or other fruit, spiced, and sweetened with sugar; -- a term applied to the liqueurs called noyau, curaçao, etc. [Written also ratifia and ratafee.] 

RATAN:  See Rattan. 

RATANY:  Same as Rhatany. 

RATAPLAN:  The iterative sound of beating a drum, or of a galloping horse. 

RATCH:  Same as Rotche. 

RATCH:  A ratchet wheel, or notched bar, with which a pawl or chick works. 

RATCHEL:  Gravelly stone. [Prov. Eng.] 

RATE:  To chide with vehemence; to scold; to censure violently. Spencer. Go, rate thy minions, proud, insulting boy! Shak. Conscience is a check to beginners in sin, reclaiming them from it, and rating them for it. Barrow. 

RATE:  The gain or loss of a timepiece in a unit of time; as, daily rate; hourly rate; etc.  8. (Naut.) (a) The order or class to which a war vessel belongs, determined according to its size, armament, etc.; as, first rate, second rate, etc. (b) The class of a merchant vessel for marine insurance, determined by its relative safety as a risk, as A1, A2, etc. 

RATEABLE:  See Ratable. 

RATEL:  Any carnivore of the genus Mellivora, allied to the weasels and the skunks; -- called also honey badger.  Note: Several species are known in Africa and India. The Cape ratel (M. Capensis) and the Indian ratel (M. Indica) are the best known. The back is gray; the lower parts, face, and tail are black. They are fond of honey, and rob the nests of wild bees. 

RATEPAYER:  One who pays rates or taxes. 

RATER:  One who rates or estimates. 

RATER:  One who rates or scolds. 

RATFISH:  Same as Rat-tail. 

RATH:  Coming before others, or before the usual time; early. [Obs. or Poetic] Bring the rathe primrose that forsaken dies. Milton.  RATH; RATHE Rath, Rathe, adv.  Early; soon; betimes. [Obs. or Poetic] Why rise ye up so rathe Chaucer. Too rathe cut off by practice criminal. Spencer. 

RATHER:  Prior; earlier; former. [Obs.] Now no man dwelleth at the rather town. Sir J. Mandeville. 

RATHRIPE:  Rareripe, or early ripe.  -- n.  A rareripe. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Such who delight in rathripe fruits. Fuller. 

RATHSKELLER:  Orig., in Germany, the cellar or basement of the city hall, usually rented for use as a restaurant where beer is sold; hence, a beer saloon of the German type below the street level, where, usually, drinks are served only at tables and simple food may also be had; -- sometimes loosely used, in English, of what are essentially basement restaurants where liquors are served. 

RATIFICATION:  The act of ratifying; the state of being ratified; confirmation; sanction; as, the ratification of a treaty. 

RATIFIER:  One who, or that which, ratifies; a confirmer. Shak. 

RATIFY:  To approve and sanction; to make valid; to establish; to settle; especially, to give sanction to, as something done by an agent or servant; as, to ratify an agreement, treaty, or contract; to ratify a nomination. It is impossible for the divine power to set a seal to a lie by ratifying an imposture with such a miracle. South. 

RATIHABITION:  Confirmation or approbation, as of an act or contract. [Obs.] Jer. Tailor. 

RATIO:  The relation which one quantity or magnitude has to another of the same kind. It is expressed by the quotient of the division of the first by the second; thus, the ratio of 3 to 6 is expressed by a to b by a/b; or (less commonly) the second is made the dividend; as, a:b = b/a.  Note: Some writers consider ratio as the quotient itself, making ratio equivalent to a number. The term ratio is also sometimes applied to the difference of two quantities as well as to their quotient, in which case the former is called arithmetical ratio, the latter, geometrical ratio. The name ratio is sometimes given to the rule of three in arithmetic. See under Rule.  2. Hence, fixed relation of number, quantity, or degree; rate; proportion; as, the ratio of representation in Congress. Compound ratio, Duplicate ratio, Inverse ratio, etc. See under Compound, Duplicate, etc.  -- Ratio of a geometrical progression, the constant quantity by which each term is multiplied to produce the succeeding one. 

RATIOCINATE:  To reason, esp. deductively; to offer reason or argument. 

RATIOCINATION:  The process of reasoning, or deducing conclusions from premises; deductive reasoning. 

RATIOCINATIVE:  Characterized by, or addicted to, ratiocination; consisting in the comparison of proportions or facts, and the deduction of inferences from the comparison; argumentative; as, a ratiocinative process. The ratiocinative meditativeness of his character. Coleridge. 

RATIOCINATORY:  Ratiocinative. [R.] 

RATION:  To supply with rations, as a regiment. 

RATIONAL:  Expressing the type, structure, relations, and reactions of a compound; graphic; -- said of formulæ. See under Formula. Rational horizon. (Astron.) See Horizon, 2 (b).  -- Rational quantity (Alg. ), one that can be expressed without the use of a radical sign, or in extract parts of unity; -- opposed to irrational or radical quantity.  -- Rational symptom (Med.), one elicited by the statements of the patient himself and not as the result of a physical examination.  Syn.  -- Sane; sound; intelligent; reasonable; sensible; wise; discreet; judicious.  -- Rational, reasonable. Rational has reference to reason as a faculty of the mind, and is opposed to traditional; as, a rational being, a rational state of mind, rational views, etc. In these cases the speculative reason is more particularly, referred to. Reasonable has reference to the exercise of this faculty for practical purposes, and means, governed or directed by reason; as, reasonable prospect of success. What higher in her society thou find'st Attractive, human, rational, love still. Milton. A law may be reasonable in itself, although a man does not allow it, or does not know the reason of the lawgivers. Swift. 

RATIONAL:  A rational being. Young. 

RATIONALE:  An explanation or exposition of the principles of some opinion, action, hypothesis, phenomenon, or like; also, the principles themselves. 

RATIONALISM:  The doctrine or system of those who deduce their religious opinions from reason or the understanding, as distinct from, or opposed to, revelation.  2. (Philos.)  The system that makes rational power the ultimate test of truth; -- opposed to sensualism, or sensationalism, and empiricism. Fleming. 

RATIONALIST:  One who accepts rationalism as a theory or system; also, disparagingly, a false reasoner. See Citation under Reasonist.  RATIONALISTIC; RATIONALISTICAL Ra`tion*al*is"tic, Ra`tion*al*is"tic*al a.  Belonging to, or in accordance with, the principles of rationalism.  -- Ra`tion*al*is"tic*al*ly, adv. 

RATIONALITY:  The quality or state of being rational; agreement with reason; possession of reason; due exercise of reason; reasonableness. When God has made rationality the common portion of mankind, how came it to be thy inclosure Gov. of Tongue. Well-directed intentions, whose rationalities will never bear a rigid examination. Sir T. Browne. 

RATIONALIZATION:  The act or process of rationalizing. 

RATIONALIZE:  To render rational; to free from radical signs or quantities. 

RATIONALIZE:  To use, and rely on, reason in forming a theory, belief, etc., especially in matters of religion: to accord with the principles of rationalism. Theodore . . . is just considered the chief rationalizing doctor of antiquity. J. H. Newman. 

RATIONALLY:  In a rational manner. 

RATIONALNESS:  The quality or state of being rational; rationality. 

RATITAE:  An order of birds in which the wings are small, rudimentary, or absent, and the breastbone is destitute of a keel. The ostrich, emu, and apteryx are examples. 

RATITATE:  Of or pertaining to the Ratitæ. 

RATITE:  Of or pertaining to the Ratitæ.  -- n.  One of the Ratitæ.  RATLINES; RATLINS Rat"lines, rat"lins, n. pl. Etym: [Of uncertain origin.] (Naut.)  The small transverse ropes attached to the shrouds and forming the steps of a rope ladder. [Written also ratlings, and rattlings.] Totten. 

RATON:  A small rat. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

RATOON:  Same as Rattoon, v. i. 

RATSBANE:  Rat poison; white arsenic. 

RATSBANED:  Poisoned by ratsbane.  RAT-TAIL Rat"-tail`, a.  Like a rat's tale in form; as, a rat-tail file, which is round, slender, and tapering. See Illust. of File.  RAT-TAIL Rat"-tail`, n.  1. (Far.) pl.  An excrescence growing from the pastern to the middle of the shank of a horse.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The California chimæra. See Chimæra. (b) Any fish of the genus Macrurus. See Grenadier, 2.  RAT-TAILED Rat"-tailed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having a long, tapering tail like that of a rat. Rat-tailed larva (Zoöl.), the larva of a fly of the genus Eristalis. See Eristalis.  -- Rat-tailed serpent (Zoöl.), the fer-de-lance.  -- Rat-tailed shrew (Zoöl.), the musk shrew. 

RATTAN:  One of the long slender flexible stems of several species of palms of the genus Calamus, mostly East Indian, though some are African and Australian. They are exceedingly tough, and are used for walking sticks, wickerwork, chairs and seats of chairs, cords and cordage, and many other purposes. 

RATTEEN:  A thick woolen stuff quilled or twilled. 

RATTEN:  To deprive feloniously of the tools used in one's employment (as by breaking or stealing them), for the purpose of annoying; as, to ratten a mechanic who works during a strike. [Trades-union Cant] J. McCarthy. 

RATTINET:  A woolen stuff thinner than ratteen. 

RATTLE:  Any organ of an animal having a structure adapted to produce a ratting sound.  Note: The rattle of the rattlesnake is composed of the hardened terminal scales, loosened in succession, but not cast off, and so modified in form as to make a series of loose, hollow joints.  7. The noise in the throat produced by the air in passing through mucus which the lungs are unable to expel; -- chiefly observable at the approach of death, when it is called the death rattle. See Râle. To spring a rattle, to cause it to sound.  -- Yellow rattle (Bot.), a yellow-flowered herb (Rhinanthus Crista- galli), the ripe seeds of which rattle in the inflated calyx. 

RATTLEBOX:  Giddy; rattle-headed. 

RATTLEHEAD:  An empty, noisy talker.  RATTLE-HEADED Rat"tle-head`ed, a.  Noisy; giddy; unsteady. 

RATTLEMOUSE:  A bat. [Obs.] Puttenham. 

RATTLEPATE:  A rattlehead. C. Kingsley.  RATTLE-PATED Rat"tle-pat`ed, a.  Rattle-headed. "A noisy, rattle-pated fellow." W. Irving. 

RATTLER:  One who, or that which, rattles. 

RATTLESNAKE:  Any one of several species of venomous American snakes belonging to the genera Crotalus and Caudisona, or Sistrurus. They have a series of horny interlocking joints at the end of the tail which make a sharp ratting sound when shaken. The common rattlesnake of the Northern United States (Crotalus horridus), and the diamond rattlesnake of the south (C. adamanteus), are the best known. See Illust. of Fang. Ground rattlesnake (Zoöl.), a small rattlesnake (Caudisona, or Sistrurus, miliaria) of the Southern United States, having a small rattle. It has nine large scales on its head.  -- Rattlesnake fern (Bot.), a common American fern (Botrychium Virginianum) having a triangular decompound frond and a long-stalked panicle of spore cases rising from the middle of the frond.  -- Rattlesnake grass (Bot.), a handsome American grass (Glyceria Canadensis) with an ample panicle of rather large ovate spikelets, each one composed of imbricated parts and slightly resembling the rattle of the rattlesnake. Sometimes called quaking grass.  -- Rattlesnake plantain (Bot.), See under Plantain.  -- Rattlesnake root (Bot.), a name given to certain American species of the composite genus Prenanthes (P. alba and P. serpentaria), formerly asserted to cure the bite of the rattlesnake. Calling also lion's foot, gall of the earth, and white lettuce.  -- Rattlesnake's master (Bot.) (a) A species of Agave (Agave Virginica) growing in the Southern United States. (b) An umbelliferous plant (Eryngium yuccæfolium) with large bristly-fringed linear leaves. (c) A composite plant, the blazing star (Liatris squarrosa).  -- Rattlesnake weed (Bot.), a plant of the composite genus Hieracium (H. venosum); -- probably so named from its spotted leaves. See also Snakeroot. 

RATTLETRAP:  Any machine or vehicle that does not run smoothly. [Colloq.] A. Trollope. 

RATTLEWEED:  Any plant of the genus Astragalus. See Milk vetch. 

RATTLEWINGS:  The golden-eye. 

RATTLEWORT:  Same as Rattlebox. 

RATTLINGS:  Ratlines. 

RATTOON:  One of the stems or shoots of sugar cane of the second year's growth from the root, or later. See Plant-cane. 

RATTOON:  To sprout or spring up from the root, as sugar cane of the previous year's planting. 

RAUCID:  Hoarse; raucous [R.] Lamb. 

RAUCITY:  Harshness of sound; rough utterance; hoarseness; as, the raucity of a trumpet, or of the human voice. 

RAUCOUS:  Hoarse; harsh; rough; as, a raucous, thick tone. "His voice slightly raucous." Aytoun.  -- Rau"cous*ly, adv. 

RAUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Reach. Shak. 

RAUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Reck. Chaucer. 

RAUNCH:  See Ranch. Spenser. 

RAUNSOUN:  Ransom. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RAVAGE:  Desolation by violence; violent ruin or destruction; devastation; havoc; waste; as, the ravage of a lion; the ravages of fire or tempest; the ravages of an army, or of time. Would one think 't were possible for love To make such ravage in a noble soul Addison.  Syn.  -- Despoilment; devastation; desolation; pillage; plunder; spoil; waste; ruin. 

RAVAGE:  To lay waste by force; to desolate by violence; to commit havoc or devastation upon; to spoil; to plunder; to consume. Already Cæsar Has ravaged more than half the globe. Addison. His lands were daily ravaged, his cattle driven away. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To despoil; pillage; plunger; sack; spoil; devastate; desolate; destroy; waste; ruin. 

RAVAGER:  One who, or that which, ravages or lays waste; spoiler. 

RAVE:  One of the upper side pieces of the frame of a wagon body or a sleigh. 

RAVE:  To utter in madness or frenzy; to say wildly; as, to rave nonsense. Young. 

RAVEHOOK:  A tool, hooked at the end, for enlarging or clearing seams for the reception of oakum. 

RAVELER:  One who ravels. 

RAVELIN:  A detached work with two embankments with make a salient angle. It is raised before the curtain on the counterscarp of the place. Formerly called demilune and half-moon. 

RAVEN:  A large black passerine bird (Corvus corax), similar to the crow, but larger. It is native of the northern part of Europe, Asia and America, and is noted for its sagacity. Sea raven (Zoöl.), the cormorant. 

RAVEN:  Of the color of the raven; jet black; as, raven curls; raven darkness. 

RAVEN:  To prey with rapacity; to be greedy; to show rapacity. [Written also ravin, and ravine.] Benjamin shall raven as a wolf. Gen. xlix. 27. 

RAVENALA:  A genus of plants related to the banana.  Note: Ravenala Madagascariensis, the principal species, is an unbranched tree with immense oarlike leaves growing alternately from two sides of the stem. The sheathing bases of the leafstalks collect and retain rain water, which flows freely when they are pierced with a knife, whence the plant is called traveller's tree. 

RAVENING:  Eagerness for plunder; rapacity; extortion. Luke xi. 39. 

RAVENING:  Greedily devouring; rapacious; as, ravening wolves.  -- Rav"en*ing*ly, adv. 

RAVENOUS:  A fine quality of sailcloth. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

RAVER:  One who raves. 

RAVIN:  Ravenous. [Obs.] Shak.  RAVIN; RAVINE Rav"in, Ravine, n. Etym: [See 2d Raven.]  Food obtained by violence; plunder; prey; raven. "Fowls of ravyne." Chaucer. Though Nature, red in tooth and claw With ravine, shrieked against his creed. Tennyson.  RAVIN; RAVINE Rav"in, Rav"ine, v. t. & i.  See Raven, v. t. & i. 

RAVING:  Talking irrationally and wildly; as, a raving lunatic.  -- Rav"ing*ly, adv. 

RAVISHER:  One who ravishes (in any sense). 

RAVISHING:  Rapturous; transporting. 

RAVISHINGLY:  In a ravishing manner. 

RAVISSANT:  In a half-raised position, as if about to spring on prey. 

RAW:  A raw, sore, or galled place; a sensitive spot; as, to touch one on the raw. Like savage hackney coachmen, they know where there is a raw. De Quincey. 

RAWBONE:  Rawboned. [Obs.] Spencer. 

RAWBONED:  Having little flesh on the bones; gaunt. Shak. 

RAWHEAD:  A specter mentioned to frighten children; as, rawhead and bloodybones. 

RAWHIDE:  A cowhide, or coarse riding whip, made of untanned (or raw) hide twisted. 

RAWISH:  Somewhat raw. [R.] Marston. 

RAWNESS:  The quality or state of being raw. 

RAY:  Array; order; arrangement; dress. [Obs.] And spoiling all her gears and goodly ray. Spenser. 

RAY:  A radiating part of the flower or plant; the marginal florets of a compound flower, as an aster or a sunflower; one of the pedicels of an umbel or other circular flower cluster; radius. See Radius.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) One of the radiating spines, or cartilages, supporting the fins of fishes. (b) One of the spheromeres of a radiate, especially one of the arms of a starfish or an ophiuran.  4. (Physics) (a) A line of light or heat proceeding from a radiant or reflecting point; a single element of light or heat propagated continuously; as, a solar ray; a polarized ray. (b) One of the component elements of the total radiation from a body; any definite or limited portion of the spectrum; as, the red ray; the violet ray. See Illust. under Light.  5. Sight; perception; vision; -- from an old theory of vision, that sight was something which proceeded from the eye to the object seen. All eyes direct their rays On him, and crowds turn coxcombs as they gaze. Pope.  6. (Geom.)  One of a system of diverging lines passing through a point, and regarded as extending indefinitely in both directions. See Half-ray. Bundle of rays. (Geom.) See Pencil of rays, below.  -- Extraordinary ray (Opt.), that one or two parts of a ray divided by double refraction which does not follow the ordinary law of refraction.  -- Ordinary ray (Opt.) that one of the two parts of a ray divided by double refraction which follows the usual or ordinary law of refraction.  -- Pencil of rays (Geom.), a definite system of rays.  -- Ray flower, or Ray floret (Bot.), one of the marginal flowers of the capitulum in such composite plants as the aster, goldenrod, daisy, and sunflower. They have an elongated, strap-shaped corolla, while the corollas of the disk flowers are tubular and five-lobed.  -- Ray point (Geom.), the common point of a pencil of rays.  -- Röntgen ray ( (Phys.), a kind of ray generated in a very highly exhausted vacuum tube by the electrical discharge. It is capable of passing through many bodies opaque to light, and producing photographic and fluorescent effects by which means pictures showing the internal structure of opaque objects are made, called radiographs, or sciagraphs. So called from the discoverer, W. C. Röntgen.  -- X ray, the Röntgen ray; -- so called by its discoverer because of its enigmatical character, x being an algebraic symbol for an unknown quantity. 

RAY:  To send forth or shoot out; to cause to shine out; as, to ray smiles. [R.] Thompson. 

RAY:  To shine, as with rays. Mrs. Browning. 

RAYAH:  A person not a Mohammedan, who pays the capitation tax. [Turkey.]  RAY GRASS Ray" grass` Etym: [Etymol. of ray is uncertain.] (Bot.)  A perennial European grass (Lolium perenne); -- called also rye grass, and red darnel. See Darnel, and Grass. Italian ray, or rye, grass. See Darnel, and Grass. 

RAYLESS:  Destitute of rays; hence, dark; not illuminated; blind; as, a rayless sky; rayless eyes. 

RAYON:  Ray; beam. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RAYONNANT:  Darting forth rays, as the sun when it shines out. 

RAZE:  A Shakespearean word (used once) supposed to mean the same as race, a root. 

RAZED:  Slashed or striped in patterns. [Obs.] "Two Provincial roses on my razed shoes." Shak. 

RAZEE:  An armed ship having her upper deck cut away, and thus reduced to the next inferior rate, as a seventy-four cut down to a frigate. Totten. 

RAZEE:  To cut down to a less number of decks, and thus to an inferior rate or glass, as a ship; hence, to prune or abridge by cutting off or retrenching parts; as, to razee a book, or an article. 

RAZOR:  A task of a wild boar. Razor fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A small Mediterranean fish (Coryphæna novacula), prized for the table. (b) The razor shell.  -- Razor grass (Bot.), a West Indian plant (Scleria scindens), the triangular stem and the leaves of which are edged with minute sharp teeth.  -- Razor grinder (Zoöl.), the European goat-sucker.  -- Razor shell (Zoöl.), any marine bivalve shell belonging to Solen and allied genera, especially Solen, or Ensatella, ensis, and Americana, which have a long, narrow, somewhat curved shell, resembling a razor handle in shape. Called also rasor clam, razor fish, knife handle.  -- Razor stone. Same as Novaculite.  -- Razor strap, or razor strop, a strap or strop used in sharpening razors. 

RAZORABLE:  Ready for the razor; fit to be shaved. [R.] Shak. 

RAZORBACK:  The rorqual.  RAZOR-BACKED Ra"zor-backed", a. (Zoöl.)  Having a sharp, lean, or thin back; as, a razor-backed hog, perch, etc. 

RAZZIA:  A plundering and destructive incursion; a foray; a rai  RE- Re-. Etym: [L. re-, older form (retained before vowels) red-: cf. F. re-, ré-.]  A prefix signifying back, against, again, anew; as, recline, to lean back; recall, to call back; recede; remove; reclaim, to call out against; repugn, to fight against; recognition, a knowing again; rejoin, to join again; reiterate, reassure. Combinations containing the prefix re- are readily formed, and are for the most part of obvious signification. 

RE:  A syllable applied in solmization to the second tone of the diatonic scale of C; in the American system, to the second tone of any diatonic scale. 

REABSORB:  To absorb again; to draw in, or imbibe, again what has been effused, extravasated, or thrown off; to swallow up again; as, to reabsorb chyle, lymph, etc.; -- used esp. of fluids. 

REABSORPTION:  The act or process of rearbsorbing. 

REACCESS:  A second access or approach; a return. Hakewill. 

REACCUSE:  To accuse again. Cheyne. 

REACH:  An effort to vomit. [R.] 

REACH:  To sail on the wind, as from one point of tacking to another, or with the ind nearly abeam. To reach after or at, to make efforts to attain to or obtain. He would be in the mind reaching after a positive idea of infinity. Locke. 

REACHABLE:  Being within reach. 

REACHLESS:  Being beyond reach; lofty. Unto a reachless pitch of praises hight. Bp. Hall. 

REACT:  To act or perform a second time; to do over again; as, to react a play; the same scenes were reacted at Rome. 

REACTANCE:  The influence of a coil of wire upon an alternating current passing through it, tending to choke or diminish the current, or the similar influence of a condenser; inductive resistance. Reactance is measured in ohms. The reactance of a circuit is equal to the component of the impressed electro-motive force at right angles to the current divided by the current, that is, the component of the impedance due to the self-inductance or capacity of the circuit.  REACTANCE COIL Reactance coil (Elec.)  A choking coil. 

REACTION:  The mutual or reciprocal action of chemical agents upon each other, or the action upon such chemical agents of some form of energy, as heat, light, or electricity, resulting in a chemical change in one or more of these agents, with the production of new compounds or the manifestation of distinctive characters. See Blowpipe reaction, Flame reaction, under Blowpipe, and Flame.  3. (Med.)  An action included by vital resistance to some other action; depression or exhaustion of vital force consequent on overexertion or overstimulation; heightened activity and overaction succeeding depression or shock.  4. (Mech.)  The force which a body subjected to the action of a force from another body exerts upon the latter body in the opposite direction. Reaction is always equal and opposite to action, that is to say, the actions of two bodies upon each other are always equal and in opposite directions. Sir I. Newton (3d Law of Motion).  5. (Politics)  Backward tendency or movement after revolution, reform, or great progress in any direction. The new king had, at the very moment at which his fame and fortune reached the highest point, predicted the coming reaction. Macaulay. Reaction time (Physiol.), in nerve physiology, the interval between the application of a stimulus to an end organ of sense and the reaction or resulting movement; -- called also physiological time.  -- Reaction wheel (Mech.), a water wheel driven by the reaction of water, usually one in which the water, entering it centrally, escapes at its periphery in a direction opposed to that of its motion by orifices at right angles, or inclined, to its radii. 

REACTIONARY:  Being, causing, or favoring reaction; as, reactionary movements. 

REACTIONARY:  One who favors reaction, or seeks to undo political progress or revolution. 

REACTIONIST:  A reactionary. C. Kingsley. 

REACTIVE:  Having power to react; tending to reaction; of the nature of reaction.  -- Re*act"ive*ly, adv.  -- Re*act"ive*ness, n. 

REACTOR:  A choking coil. 

READ:  Rennet. See 3d Reed. [Prov. Eng.] 

READ:  Reading. [Colloq.] Hume. One newswoman here lets magazines for a penny a read. Furnivall. 

READ:  imp. & p. p. of Read, v. t. & i. 

READ:  Instructed or knowing by reading; versed in books; learned. A poet . . . well read in Longinus. Addison. 

READABILITY:  The state of being readable; readableness. 

READABLE:  Such as can be read; legible; fit or suitable to be read; worth reading; interesting.  -- Read"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Read"a*bly, adv,. 

READDRESS:  To address a second time; -- often used reflexively. He readdressed himself to her. Boyle. 

READEPT:  To regain; to recover. [Obs.] 

READEPTION:  A regaining; recovery of something lost. [Obs.] Bacon. 

READERSHIP:  The office of reader. Lyell. 

READINESS:  The state or quality of being ready; preparation; promptness; aptitude; willingness. They received the word with all readiness of mind. Acts xvii. 11.  Syn.  -- Facility; quickness; expedition; promptitude; promptness; aptitude; aptness; knack; skill; expertness; dexterity; ease; cheerfulness. See Facility. 

READJOURN:  To adjourn a second time; to adjourn again. 

READJOURNMENT:  The act of readjourning; a second or repeated adjournment. 

READJUST:  To adjust or settle again; to put in a different order or relation; to rearrange. 

READJUSTER:  One who, or that which, readjusts; in some of the States of the United States, one who advocates a refunding, and sometimes a partial repudiation, of the State debt without the consent of the State's creditors. 

READJUSTMENT:  A second adjustment; a new or different adjustment. 

READMISSION:  The act of admitting again, or the state of being readmitted; as, the readmission fresh air into an exhausted receiver; the readmission of a student into a seminary. 

READMIT:  To admit again; to give entrance or access to again. Whose ear is ever open, and his eye Gracious to readmit the suppliant. Milton. 

READMITTANCE:  Allowance to enter again; a second admission. 

READOPT:  To adopt again. Young. 

READORN:  To adorn again or anew. 

READVANCE:  To advance again. 

READVERTENCY:  The act of adverting to again, or of reviewing. [R.] Norris. 

READY:  A word of command, or a position, in the manual of arms, at which the piece is cocked and held in position to execute promptly the next command, which is, aim. All ready, ready in every particular; wholly equipped or prepared. "[I] am all redy at your hest." Chaucer.  -- Ready money, means of immediate payment; cash. "'Tis all the ready money fate can give." Cowley.  -- Ready reckoner, a book of tables for facilitating computations, as of interest, prices, etc.  -- To make ready, to make preparation; to get in readiness.  Syn.  -- Prompt; expeditious; speedy; unhesitating; dexterous; apt; skilful; handy; expert; facile; easy; opportune; fitted; prepared; disposed; willing; free; cheerful. See Prompt. 

READY:  In a state of preparation for immediate action; so as to need no delay. We ourselves will go ready armed. Num. xxxii. 17. 

READY:  Ready money; cash; -- commonly with the; as, he was supplied with the ready. [Slang] Lord Strut was not flush in ready, either to go to law, or to clear old debts. Arbuthnot. 

READY:  To dispose in order. [Obs.] Heywood.  READY-MADE Read"y-made`, a.  Made already, or beforehand, in anticipation of need; not made to order; as, ready-made clothing; ready-made jokes.  READY-WITTED Read"y-wit`ted, a.  Having ready wit. 

REAFFIRM:  To affirm again.  REAFFIRMANCE; REAFFIRMATION Re`af*firm"ance, Re*af`fir*ma"tion n.  A second affirmation. 

REAFFOREST:  To convert again into the forest, as a region of country. 

REAFFORESTATION:  The act or process of converting again into a forest. 

REAGENT:  A substance capable of producing with another a reaction, especially when employed to detect the presence of other bodies; a test. 

REAGGRAVATION:  The last monitory, published after three admonitions and before the last excommunication. 

REAGREE:  To agree again. 

REAK:  A rush. [Obs.] "Feeds on reaks and reeds." Drant. 

REAK:  A prank. [Obs.] "They play such reaks." Beau & Fl. 

REAL:  A small Spanish silver coin; also, a denomination of money of account, formerly the unit of the Spanish monetary system.  Note: A real of plate (coin) varied in value according to the time of its coinage, from 12real vellon, or money of account, was nearly equal to five cents, or 2 

REAL:  Royal; regal; kingly. [Obs.] "The blood real of Thebes." Chaucer. 

REAL:  Having an assignable arithmetical or numerical value or meaning; not imaginary.  5. (Law)  Pertaining to things fixed, permanent, or immovable, as to lands and tenements; as, real property, in distinction from personal or movable property. Chattels real (Law), such chattels as are annexed to, or savor of, the realty, as terms for years of land. See Chattel.  -- Real action (Law), an action for the recovery of real property.  -- Real assets (Law), lands or real estate in the hands of the heir, chargeable with the debts of the ancestor.  -- Real composition (Eccl. Law), an agreement made between the owner of lands and the parson or vicar, with consent of the ordinary, that such lands shall be discharged from payment of tithes, in consequence of other land or recompense given to the parson in lieu and satisfaction thereof. Blackstone.  -- Real estate or property, lands, tenements, and hereditaments; freehold interests in landed property; property in houses and land. Kent. Burrill.  -- Real presence (R. C. Ch.), the actual presence of the body and blood of Christ in the eucharist, or the conversion of the substance of the bread and wine into the real body and blood of Christ; transubstantiation. In other churches there is a belief in a form of real presence, not however in the sense of transubstantiation.  -- Real servitude, called also Predial servitude (Civil Law), a burden imposed upon one estate in favor of another estate of another proprietor. Erskine. Bouvier.  Syn.  -- Actual; true; genuine; authentic.  -- Real, Actual. Real represents a thing to be a substantive existence; as, a real, not imaginary, occurrence. Actual refers to it as acted or performed; and, hence, when we wish to prove a thing real, we often say, "It actually exists," "It has actually been done." Thus its really is shown by its actually. Actual, from this reference to being acted, has recently received a new signification, namely, present; as, the actual posture of affairs; since what is now in action, or going on, has, of course, a present existence. An actual fact; a real sentiment. For he that but conceives a crime in thought, Contracts the danger of an actual fault. Dryden. Our simple ideas are all real; all agree to the reality of things. Locke. 

REAL:  A realist. [Obs.] Burton. 

REALGAR:  Arsenic sulphide, a mineral of a brilliant red color; red orpiment. It is also an artificial product. 

REALISM:  Fidelity to nature or to real life; representation without idealization, and making no appeal to the imagination; adherence to the actual fact. 

REALIST:  One who believes in realism; esp., one who maintains that generals, or the terms used to denote the genera and species of things, represent real existences, and are not mere names, as maintained by the nominalists.  2. (Art. & Lit.)  An artist or writer who aims at realism in his work. See Realism, 2. 

REALISTIC:  Of or pertaining to the realists; in the manner of the realists; characterized by realism rather than by imagination. 

REALISTICALLY:  In the realistic manner. 

REALITY:  Loyalty; devotion. [Obs.] To express our reality to the emperor. Fuller.  4. (Law)  See 2d Realty, 2. 

REALIZABLE:  Capable of being realized. 

REALIZATION:  The act of realizing, or the state of being realized. 

REALIZE:  To convert any kind of property into money, especially property representing investments, as shares in stock companies, bonds, etc. Wary men took the alarm, and began to realize, a word now first brought into use to express the conversion of ideal property into something real. W. Irving. 

REALIZER:  One who realizes. Coleridge. 

REALIZING:  Serving to make real, or to impress on the mind as a reality; as, a realizing view of the danger incurred.  -- Re"al*i`zing*ly, adv. 

REALLEGE:  To allege again. Cotgrave. 

REALLIANCE:  A renewed alliance.  RE-ALLY Re"-al*ly", v. t. Etym: [Pref. re- + ally, v. t.]  To bring together again; to compose or form anew. Spenser. 

REALLY:  Royally. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REALLY:  In a real manner; with or in reality; actually; in truth. Whose anger is really but a short fit of madness. Swift.  Note: Really is often used familiarly as a slight corroboration of an opinion or a declaration. Why, really, sixty-five is somewhat old. Young. 

REALMLESS:  Destitute of a realm. Keats. 

REALNESS:  The quality or condition of being real; reality. 

REAM:  Cream; also, the cream or froth on ale. [Scot.] 

REAM:  To cream; to mantle. [Scot.] A huge pewter measuring pot which, in the language of the hostess, reamed with excellent claret. Sir W. Scott. 

REAM:  To stretch out; to draw out into thongs, threads, or filaments. 

REAM:  A bundle, package, or quantity of paper, usually consisting of twenty quires or 480 sheets. Printer's ream, twenty-one and a half quires. [Eng.] A common practice is now to count five hundred sheets to the ream. Knight. 

REAM:  To bevel out, as the mouth of a hole in wood or metal; in modern usage, to enlarge or dress out, as a hole, with a reamer. 

REAME:  Realm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REAMER:  One who, or that which, reams; specifically, an instrument with cutting or scraping edges, used, with a twisting motion, for enlarging a round hole, as a bore of a cannon, etc. 

REAMPUTATION:  The second of two amputations performed upon the same member. 

REANIMATE:  To animate anew; to restore to animation or life; to infuse new life, vigor, spirit, or courage into; to revive; to reinvigorate; as, to reanimate a drowned person; to reanimate disheartened troops; to reanimate languid spirits. Glanvill. 

REANIMATION:  The act or operation of reanimating, or the state of being reanimated; reinvigoration; revival. 

REANNEX:  To annex again or anew; to reunite. "To reannex that duchy." Bacon. 

REANNEXATION:  Act of reannexing. 

REANSWER:  To answer in return; to repay; to compensate; to make amends for. Which in weight to reanswer, his pettiness would bow under. Shak. 

REAP:  To perform the act or operation of reaping; to gather a harvest. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. Ps. cxxvi. 5. 

REAP:  A bundle of grain; a handful of grain laid down by the reaper as it is cut. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

REAPPAREL:  To clothe again. 

REAPPEAR:  To appear again. 

REAPPEARANCE:  A second or new appearance; the act or state of appearing again. 

REAPPLICATION:  The act of reapplying, or the state of being reapplied. 

REAPPLY:  To apply again. 

REAPPOINT:  To appoint again. 

REAPPOINTMENT:  The act of reappointing, or the state of being reappointed. 

REAPPORTION:  To apportion again. 

REAPPORTIONMENT:  A second or a new apportionment. 

REAPPROACH:  To approach again or anew. 

REAR:  Early; soon. [Prov. Eng.] Then why does Cuddy leave his cot so rear! Gay. 

REAR:  Being behind, or in the hindmost part; hindmost; as, the rear rank of a company. Rear admiral, an officer in the navy, next in rank below a vice admiral, and above a commodore. See Admiral.  -- Rear front (Mil.), the rear rank of a body of troops when faced about and standing in that position.  -- Rear guard (Mil.), the division of an army that marches in the rear of the main body to protect it; -- used also figuratively.  -- Rear line (Mil.), the line in the rear of an army.  -- Rear rank (Mil.), the rank or line of a body of troops which is in the rear, or last in order.  -- Rear sight (Firearms), the sight nearest the breech.  -- To bring up the rear, to come last or behind. 

REAR:  To place in the rear; to secure the rear of. [R.] 

REAR:  To rise up on the hind legs, as a horse; to become erect. Rearing bit, a bit designed to prevent a horse from lifting his head when rearing. Knight.  REARDORSE; REARDOSS Rear"dorse, Rear"doss, n.  A reredos. 

REARER:  One he, or that which, rears. 

REARGUE:  To argue anew or again. 

REARGUMENT:  An arguing over again, as of a motion made in court.  REAR-HORSE Rear"-horse`, n. Etym: [So called because it rears up when disturbed.] (Zoöl.)  A mantis. 

REARLY:  Early. [Obs.] Beau. & Ft. 

REARMOST:  Farthest in the rear; last.  REARMOUSE; REREMOUSE Rear"mouse`, Rere"mouse`, n. Etym: [AS. hreremus; probably fr. hreran to agitate, stir (akin to G. rühren, Icel. hræra) + mus mouse.] (Zoöl.)  The leather-winged bat (Vespertilio murinus). [Written also reermouse.] 

REARRANGE:  To arrange again; to arrange in a different way. 

REARRANGEMENT:  The act of rearranging, or the state of being rearranged. 

REARWARD:  The last troop; the rear of an army; a rear guard. Also used figuratively. Shak. 

REARWARD:  At or toward the rear. 

REASCEND:  To rise, mount, or climb again. 

REASCEND:  To ascend or mount again; to reach by ascending again. He mounts aloft, and reascends the skies. Addison. 

REASCENSION:  The act of reascending; a remounting. 

REASCENT:  A returning ascent or ascension; acclivity. Cowper. 

REASON:  Ratio; proportion. [Obs.] Barrow. By reason of, by means of; on account of; because of. "Spain is thin sown of people, partly by reason of the sterility of the soil." Bacon. In reason, In all reason, in justice; with rational ground; in a right view. When anything is proved by as good arguments as a thing of that kind is capable of, we ought not, in reason, to doubt of its existence. Tillotson. -- It is reason, it is reasonable; it is right. [Obs.] Yet it were great reason, that those that have children should have greatest care of future times. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Motive; argument; ground; consideration; principle; sake; account; object; purpose; design. See Motive, Sense. 

REASONABLE:  Reasonable; tolerably. [Obs.] I have a reasonable good ear in music. Shak. 

REASONABLENESS:  Quality of being reasonable. 

REASONER:  One who reasons or argues; as, a fair reasoner; a close reasoner; a logical reasoner. 

REASONIST:  A rationalist. [Obs.] Such persons are now commonly called "reasonists" and "rationalists," to distinguish them from true reasoners and rational inquirers. Waterland. 

REASSEMBLAGE:  Assemblage a second time or again. 

REASSEMBLE:  To assemble again. 

REASSERT:  To assert again or anew; to maintain after an omission to do so. Let us hope . . . we may have a body of authors who will reassert our claim to respectability in literature. Walsh. 

REASSERTION:  A second or renewed assertion of the same thing. 

REASSESSMENT:  A renewed or second assessment. 

REASSIGN:  To assign back or again; to transfer back what has been assigned. 

REASSIGNMENT:  The act of reassigning. 

REASSIMILATE:  To assimilate again.  -- Re`as*sim`i*la"tion, n. 

REASSOCIATE:  To associate again; to bring again into close relatoins. 

REASSUME:  To assume again or anew; to resume.  -- Re`as*sump"tion, n. 

REASSURANCE:  Same as Reinsurance. 

REASSURER:  One who reassures. 

REASTY:  Rusty and rancid; -- applied to salt meat. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Tusser.  -- Reas"ti*ness, n. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

REATA:  A lariat. 

REATTACH:  To attach again. 

REATTACHMENT:  The act of reattaching; a second attachment. 

REATTAIN:  To attain again. 

REATTAINMENT:  The act of reattaining. 

REATTEMPT:  To attempt again. 

REAUME:  Realm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REAUMUR:  Of or pertaining to René Antoine Ferchault de Réaumur; conformed to the scale adopted by Réaumur in graduating the thermometer he invented.  -- n.  A Réaumur thermometer or scale.  Note: The Réaumur thermometer is so graduated that 0º marks the freezing point and 80º the boiling point of water. Frequently indicated by R. Cf. Centigrade, and Fahrenheit. See Illust. of Thermometer. 

REAVE:  To take away by violence or by stealth; to snatch away; to rob; to despoil; to bereave. [Archaic]. "To reave his life." Spenser. He golden apples raft of the dragon. Chaucer. By privy stratagem my life at home. Chapman. To reave the orphan of his patrimony. Shak. The heaven caught and reft him of his tongue. Tennyson. 

REAVER:  One who reaves. [Archaic] 

REAWAKE:  To awake again. 

REBANISH:  To banish again.  REBAPTISATION; REBAPTIZATION Re*bap`ti*sa"tion, Re*bap`ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. rebaptisation.]  A second baptism. [Obs.] Hooker. 

REBAPTISM:  A second baptism. 

REBAPTIZE:  To baptize again or a second time. 

REBAPTIZER:  One who rebaptizes. 

REBARBARIZE:  To reduce again to barbarism.  -- Re*bar`ba*ri*za"tion, n. Germany . . . rebarbarized by polemical theology and religious wars. Sir W. Hamilton. 

REBATE:  To abate; to withdraw. [Obs.] Foxe. 

REBATE:  Deduction; abatement; as, a rebate of interest for immediate payment; a rebate of importation duties. Bouvier. 

REBATE:  A restangular longitudinal recess or groove, cut in the corner or edge of any body; a rabbet. See Rabbet.  2. A piece of wood hafted into a long stick, and serving to beat out mortar. Elmes.  3. An iron tool sharpened something like a chisel, and used for dressing and polishing wood. Elmes.  4. Etym: [Perhaps a different word.]  A kind of hard freestone used in making pavements. [R.] Elmes. 

REBATE:  To cut a rebate in. See Rabbet, v. 

REBATEMENT:  Same as 3d Rebate, v. 

REBATO:  Same as Rabato. Burton. 

REBEC:  An instrument formerly used which somewhat resembled the violin, having three strings, and being played with a bow. [Written also rebeck.] Milton. He turn'd his rebec to a mournful note. Drayton.  2. A contemptuous term applied to an old woman. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REBEL:  Pertaining to rebels or rebellion; acting in revolt; rebellious; as, rebel troops. Whoso be rebel to my judgment. Chaucer. Convict by flight, and rebel to all law. Milton. 

REBEL:  One who rebels.  Syn.  -- Revolter; insurgent.  -- Rebel, Insurgent. Insurgent marks an early, and rebel a more advanced, stage of opposition to government. The former rises up against his rulers, the latter makes war upon them. 

REBELDOM:  A region infested by rebels; rebels, considered collectively; also, conduct o Thackeray. 

REBELLER:  One who rebels; a rebel. 

REBELLIOUS:  Engaged in rebellion; disposed to rebel of the nature of rebels or of rebellion; resisting government or lawful authority by force. "Thy rebellious crew." "Proud rebellious arms." Milton.  -- Re*bel"lious*ly, adv.  -- Re*bel"lious*ness, n. 

REBELLOW:  To bellow again; to repeat or echo a bellow. The cave rebellowed, and the temple shook. Dryden. 

REBITING:  The act or process of deepening worn lines in an etched plate by submitting it again to the action if acid. Fairholt. 

REBLOOM:  To bloom again. Crabbe. 

REBLOSSOM:  To blossom again. 

REBOANT:  Rebellowing; resounding loudly. [R.] Mrs. Browning. 

REBOATION:  Repetition of a bellow. [R.] Bp. Patrick. 

REBORN:  Born again. 

REBOUND:  To send back; to reverberate. Silenus sung; the vales his voice rebound. Dryden. 

REBOUND:  The act of rebounding; resilience. Flew . . . back, as from a rock, with swift rebound. Dryden. 

REBOZO:  A kind of mantilla worn by women over the head and shoulders, and sometimes over part of the face. [Mexico & Sp. Amer.] 

REBRACE:  To brace again. Gray. 

REBREATHE:  To breathe again. 

REBUCOUS:  Rebuking. [Obs.] She gave unto him many rebucous words. Fabyan. 

REBUFF:  To beat back; to offer sudden resistance to; to check; to repel or repulse violently, harshly, or uncourteously. 

REBUILD:  To build again, as something which has been demolished; to construct anew; as, to rebuild a house, a wall, a wharf, or a city. 

REBUILDER:  One who rebuilds. Bp. Bull. 

REBUKABLE:  Worthy of rebuke or reprehension; reprehensible. Shak. 

REBUKE:  To check, silence, or put down, with reproof; to restrain by expression of disapprobation; to reprehend sharply and summarily; to chide; to reprove; to admonish. The proud he tamed, the penitent he cheered, Nor to rebuke the rich offender feared. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To reprove; chide; check; chasten; restrain; silence. See Reprove. 

REBUKEFUL:  Containing rebuke; of the nature of rebuke. [Obs.] -- Re*buke"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

REBUKER:  One who rebukes. 

REBUKINGLY:  By way of rebuke. 

REBULLITION:  The act of boiling up or effervescing. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. 

REBURY:  To bury again. Ashmole. 

REBUS:  A pictorial suggestion on a coat of arms of the name of the person to whom it belongs. See Canting arms, under Canting. 

REBUS:  To mark or indicate by a rebus. He [John Morton] had a fair library rebused with More in text and Tun under it. Fuller. 

REBUT:  To contradict, meet, or oppose by argument, plea, or countervailing proof. Abbott. 

REBUT:  To make, or put in, an answer, as to a plaintiff's surrejoinder. The plaintiff may answer the rejoinder by a surrejoinder; on which the defendant. Blackstone. 

REBUTTABLE:  Capable of being rebutted. 

REBUTTAL:  The giving of evidence on the part of a plaintiff to destroy the effect of evidence introduced by the defendant in the same suit. 

REBUTTER:  The answer of a defendant in matter of fact to a plaintiff's surrejoinder. 

RECADENCY:  A falling back or descending a second time; a relapse. W. Montagu. 

RECALCITRANT:  Kicking back; recalcitrating; hence, showing repugnance or opposition; refractory. 

RECALCITRATE:  To kick against; to show repugnance to; to rebuff. The more heartily did one disdain his disdain, and recalcitrate his tricks. De Quincey. 

RECALCITRATE:  To kick back; to kick against anything; hence, to express repugnance or opposition. 

RECALCITRATION:  A kicking back again; opposition; repugnance; refractoriness. 

RECALL:  A call on the trumpet, bugle, or drum, by which soldiers are recalled from duty, labor, etc. Wilhelm. 

RECALLABLE:  Capable of being recalled. 

RECALLMENT:  Recall. [R.] R. Browning. 

RECANT:  To withdraw or repudiate formally and publicly (opinions formerly expressed); to contradict, as a former declaration; to take back openly; to retract; to recall. How soon . . . ease would recant Vows made in pain, as violent and void! Milton.  Syn.  -- To retract; recall; revoke; abjure; disown; disavow. See Renounce. 

RECANT:  To revoke a declaration or proposition; to unsay what has been said; to retract; as, convince me that I am wrong, and I will recant. Dryden. 

RECANTATION:  The act of recanting; a declaration that contradicts a former one; that which is thus asserted in contradiction; retraction. The poor man was imprisoned for this discovery, and forced to make a public recantation. Bp. Stillingfleet. 

RECANTER:  One who recants. 

RECAPACITATE:  To qualify again; to confer capacity on again. Atterbury. 

RECAPITULATE:  To repeat, as the principal points in a discourse, argument, or essay; to give a summary of the principal facts, points, or arguments of; to relate in brief; to summarize. 

RECAPITULATE:  To sum up, or enumerate by heads or topics, what has been previously said; to repeat briefly the substance. 

RECAPITULATION:  The act of recapitulating; a summary, or concise statement or enumeration, of the principal points, facts, or statements, in a preceding discourse, argument, or essay. 

RECAPITULATOR:  One who recapitulates. 

RECAPITULATORY:  Of the nature of a recapitulation; containing recapitulation. 

RECAPPER:  A tool used for applying a fresh percussion cap or primer to a cartridge shell in reloading it. 

RECAPTION:  The act of retaking, as of one who has escaped after arrest; reprisal; the retaking of one's own goods, chattels, wife, or children, without force or violence, from one who has taken them and who wrongfully detains them. Blackstone. Writ of recaption (Law), a writ to recover damages for him whose goods, being distrained for rent or service, are distrained again for the same cause.Wharton. 

RECAPTOR:  One who recaptures; one who takes a prize which had been previously taken. 

RECAPTURE:  To capture again; to retake. 

RECARBONIZE:  To restore carbon to; as, to recarbonize iron in converting it into steel. 

RECARNIFY:  To convert again into flesh. [Obs.] Howell. 

RECARRIAGE:  Act of carrying back. 

RECARRY:  To carry back. Walton. 

RECCHE:  To reck. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RECCHELES:  Reckless. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RECEDE:  To cede back; to grant or yield again to a former possessor; as, to recede conquered territory. 

RECEIPT:  To give a receipt, as for money paid. 

RECEIPTMENT:  The receiving or harboring a felon knowingly, after the commission of a felony. Burrill. 

RECEIPTOR:  One who receipts; specifically (Law), one who receipts for property which has been taken by the sheriff. 

RECEIT:  Receipt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RECEIVABILITY:  The quality of being receivable; receivableness. 

RECEIVABLE:  Capable of being received.  -- Re*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n. Bills receivable. See under 6th Bill. 

RECEIVE:  To bat back (the ball) when served. Receiving ship, one on board of which newly recruited sailors are received, and kept till drafted for service.  Syn.  -- To accept; take; allow; hold; retain; admit.  -- Receive, Accept. To receive describes simply the act of taking. To accept denotes the taking with approval, or for the purposes for which a thing is offered. Thus, we receive a letter when it comes to hand; we receive news when it reaches us; we accept a present when it is offered; we accept an invitation to dine with a friend. Who, if we knew What we receive, would either not accept Life offered, or soon beg to lay it down. Milton. 

RECEIVE:  To return, or bat back, the ball when served; as, it is your turn to receive. 

RECEIVEDNESS:  The state or quality of being received, accepted, or current; as, the receivedness of an opinion. Boyle. 

RECEIVER:  A person appointed, ordinarily by a court, to receive, and hold in trust, money or other property which is the subject of litigation, pending the suit; a person appointed to take charge of the estate and effects of a corporation, and to do other acts necessary to winding up its affairs, in certain cases. Bouvier.  3. One who takes or buys stolen goods from a thief, knowing them to be stolen. Blackstone.  4. (Chem.) (a) A vessel connected with an alembic, a retort, or the like, for receiving and condensing the product of distillation. (b) A vessel for receiving and containing gases.  5. (Pneumatics)  The glass vessel in which the vacuum is produced, and the objects of experiment are put, in experiments with an air pump. Cf. Bell jar, and see Illust. of Air pump.  6. (Steam Engine) (a) A vessel for receiving the exhaust steam from the high-pressure cylinder before it enters the low-pressure cylinder, in a compound engine. (b) A capacious vessel for receiving steam from a distant boiler, and supplying it dry to an engine.  7. That portion of a telephonic apparatus, or similar system, at which the message is received and made audible; -- opposed to transmitter. Exhausted receiver (Physics), a receiver, as that used with the air pump, from which the air has been withdrawn; a vessel the interior of which is a more or less complete vacuum.  RECEIVER'S CERTIFICATE Re*ceiv"er's cer*tif"i*cate.  An acknowledgement of indebtedness made by a receiver under order of court to obtain funds for the preservation of the assets held by him, as for operating a railroad. Receivers' certificates are ordinarily a first lien on the assets, prior to that of bonds or other securities. 

RECEIVERSHIP:  The state or office of a receiver. 

RECELEBRATE:  To celebrate again, or anew.  -- Re*cel`e*bra"tion, n. 

RECENCY:  The state or quality of being recent; newness; new state; late origin; lateness in time; freshness; as, the recency of a transaction, of a wound, etc. 

RECENSE:  To review; to revise. [R.] Bentley. 

RECENSIONIST:  One who makes recensions; specifically, a critical editor. 

RECENT:  Of or pertaining to the present or existing epoch; as, recent shells. 

RECENTER:  To center again; to restore to the center. Coleridge. 

RECENTLY:  Newly; lately; freshly; not long since; as, advices recently received. 

RECENTNESS:  Quality or state of being recent. 

RECEPTACULAR:  Pertaining to the receptacle, or growing on it; as, the receptacular chaff or scales in the sunflower. 

RECEPTACULUM:  A receptacle; as, the receptaculum of the chyle. 

RECEPTARY:  Generally or popularly admitted or received. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

RECEPTARY:  That which is received. [Obs.] "Receptaries of philosophy." Sir T. Browne. 

RECEPTIBLE:  Such as may be received; receivable. 

RECEPTIVE:  Having the quality of receiving; able or inclined to take in, absorb, hold, or contain; receiving or containing; as, a receptive mind. Imaginary space is receptive of all bodies. Glanvill. 

RECEPTIVENESS:  The quality of being receptive. 

RECEPTIVITY:  The power or capacity of receiving impressions, as those of the external senses. 

RECEPTORY:  Receptacle. [Obs.] Holland. 

RECESS:  A sinus. 

RECESS:  To make a recess in; as, to recess a wall. 

RECESS:  A decree of the imperial diet of the old German empire. Brande & C. 

RECESSION:  The act of receding or withdrawing, as from a place, a claim, or a demand. South. Mercy may rejoice upon the recessions of justice. Jer. Taylor. 

RECESSION:  The act of ceding back; restoration; repeated cession; as, the recession of conquered territory to its former sovereign. 

RECESSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to recession or withdrawal. Recessional hymn, a hymn sung in a procession returning from the choir to the robing room. 

RECESSIVE:  Going back; receding. 

RECHABITE:  One of the descendants of Jonadab, the son of Rechab, all of whom by his injunction abstained from the use of intoxicating drinks and even from planting the vine. Jer. xxxv. 2-19. Also, in modern times, a member of a certain society of abstainers from alcoholic liquors. 

RECHANGE:  To change again, or change back. 

RECHARTER:  A second charter; a renewal of a charter. D. Webster. 

RECHARTER:  To charter again or anew; to grant a second or another charter to. 

RECHASE:  To chase again; to chase or drive back. 

RECHAUFFE:  A dish of food that has been warmed again, hence, fig., something made up from old material; a rehash.  It is merely a réchauffé of ancient philosophies. F. W. H. Myers. 

RECHEAT:  A strain given on the horn to call back the hounds when they have lost track of the game. 

RECHEAT:  To blow the recheat. Drayton. 

RECHERCHE:  Sought out with care; choice. Hence: of rare quality, elegance, or attractiveness; peculiar and refined in kind. 

RECHLESS:  Reckless. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 

RECHOOSE:  To choose again. 

RECIDIVATE:  To baskslide; to fall again. [Obs.] 

RECIDIVATION:  A falling back; a backsliding. Hammond. 

RECIDIVISM:  The state or quality of being recidivous; relapse, specif. (Criminology),  a falling back or relapse into prior criminal habits, esp. after conviction and punishment.  The old English system of recognizances, in which the guilty party deposits a sum of money, is an excellent guarantee to society against recidivism. Havelock Ellis. 

RECIDIVIST:  One who is recidivous or is characterized by recidivism; an incorrigible criminal. -- Re*cid`i*vis"tic (#), a.  The criminal by passion never becomes a recidivist, it is the social, not the antisocial, instincts that are strong within him, his crime is a solitary event in his life. Havelock Ellis. 

RECIDIVOUS:  Tending or liable to backslide or r 

RECIPE:  A formulary or prescription for making some combination, mixture, or preparation of materials; a receipt; especially, a prescription for medicine. 

RECIPIANGLE:  An instrument with two arms that are pivoted together at one end, and a graduated arc, -- used by military engineers for measuring and laying off angles of fortifications.  RECIPIENCE; RECIPIENCY Re*cip"i*ence, Re*cip"i*en*cy, n.  The quality or state of being recipient; a receiving; reception; receptiveness. 

RECIPIENT:  A receiver; the person or thing that receives; one to whom, or that to which, anything is given or communicated; specifically, the receiver of a still. 

RECIPIENT:  Receiving; receptive. 

RECIPROCAL:  Reflexive; -- applied to pronouns and verbs, but sometimes limited to such pronouns as express mutual action.  5. (Math.)  Used to denote different kinds of mutual relation; often with reference to the substitution of reciprocals for given quantities. See the Phrases below. Reciprocal equation (Math.), one which remains unchanged in form when the reciprocal of the unknown quantity is substituted for that quantity.  -- Reciprocal figures (Geom.), two figures of the same kind (as triangles, parallelograms, prisms, etc.), so related that two sides of the one form the extremes of a proportion of which the means are the two corresponding sides of the other; in general, two figures so related that the first corresponds in some special way to the second, and the second corresponds in the same way to the first.  -- Reciprocal proportion (Math.), a proportion such that, of four terms taken in order, the first has to the second the same ratio which the fourth has to the third, or the first has to the second the same ratio which the reciprocal of the third has to the reciprocal of the fourth. Thus, 2:5: :20:8 form a reciprocal proportion, because 2:5: :1/20:1/8.  -- Reciprocal quantities (Math.), any two quantities which produce unity when multiplied together.  -- Reciprocal ratio (Math.), the ratio between the reciprocals of two quantities; as, the reciprocal ratio of 4 to 9 is that of ¼ to 1/9.  -- Reciprocal terms (Logic), those terms which have the same signification, and, consequently, are convertible, and may be used for each other.  Syn.  -- Mutual; alternate.  -- Reciprocal, Mutual. The distinctive idea of mutual is, that the parties unite by interchange in the same act; as, a mutual covenant; mutual affection, etc. The distinctive idea of reciprocal is, that one party acts by way of return or response to something previously done by the other party; as, a reciprocal kindness; reciprocal reproaches, etc. Love is reciprocal when the previous affection of one party has drawn forth the attachment of the other. To make it mutual in the strictest sense, the two parties should have fallen in love at the same time; but as the result is the same, the two words are here used interchangeably. The ebbing and flowing of the tide is a case where the action is reciprocal, but not mutual. 

RECIPROCAL:  The quotient arising from dividing unity by any quantity; thus ¼ is the reciprocal of 4; 1/(a + b) is the reciprocal of a + b. The reciprocal of a fraction is the fraction inverted, or the denominator divided by the numerator. 

RECIPROCALITY:  The quality or condition of being reciprocal; reciprocalness. [R.] 

RECIPROCALLY:  In the manner of reciprocals. Reciprocally proportional (Arith. & Alg.), proportional, as two variable quantities, so that the one shall have a constant ratio to the reciprocal of the other. 

RECIPROCALNESS:  The quality or condition of being reciprocal; mutual return; alternateness. 

RECIPROCATE:  To move forward and backward alternately; to recur in vicissitude; to act interchangeably; to alternate. One brawny smith the puffing bellows plies, And draws and blows reciprocating air. Dryden. Reciprocating engine, a steam, air, or gas engine, etc., in which the piston moves back and forth; -- in distinction from a rotary engine, in which the piston travels continuously in one direction in a circular path.  -- Reciprocating motion (Mech.), motion alternately backward and forward, or up and down, as of a piston rod. 

RECIPROCATE:  To give and return mutually; to make return for; to give in return; to unterchange; to alternate; as, to reciprocate favors. Cowper. 

RECIPROCORNOUS:  Having horns turning backward and then forward, like those of a ram. [R.] Ash. 

RECIPROCOUS:  Reciprocal. [Obs.] 

RECIPROK:  Reciprocal. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

RECIPROQUE:  Reciprocal. Bacon. 

RECISION:  The act of cutting off. Sherwood. 

RECITAL:  A vocal or instrumental performance by one person; -- distinguished from concert; as, a song recital; an organ, piano, or violin recital.  5. (Law)  The formal statement, or setting forth, of some matter of fact in any deed or writing in order to explain the reasons on which the transaction is founded; the statement of matter in pleading introductory to some positive allegation. Burn.  Syn.  -- Account; rehearsal; recitation; narration; description; explanation; enumeration; detail; narrative. See Account. 

RECITATION:  The rehearsal of a lesson by pupils before their instructor. 

RECITATIVE:  A species of musical recitation in which the words are delivered in manner resembling that of ordinary declamation; also, a piece of music intended for such recitation; -- opposed to melisma. 

RECITATIVE:  Of or pertaining to recitation; intended for musical recitation or declamation; in the style or manner of recitative.  -- Rec`i*ta*tive"ly, adv. 

RECITATIVO:  Recitative. 

RECITE:  To state in or as a recital. See Recital, 5.  Syn.  -- To rehearse; narrate; relate; recount; describe; recapitulate; detail; number; count. 

RECITE:  To repeat, pronounce, or rehearse, as before an audience, something prepared or committed to memory; to rehearse a lesson learned. 

RECITE:  A recital. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple. 

RECITER:  One who recites; also, a book of extracts for recitation. 

RECK:  To make account; to take heed; to care; to mind; -- often followed by of. [Archaic] Then reck I not, when I have lost my life. Chaucer. I reck not though I end my life to-day. Shak. Of me she recks not, nor my vain desire. M. Arnold. 

RECKLING:  Needing care; weak; feeble; as, a reckling child. H. Taylor.  -- n.  A weak child or animal. Tennyson. 

RECKONER:  One who reckons or computes; also, a book of calculation, tables, etc., to assist in reckoning. Reckoners without their host must reckon twice. Camden. 

RECLAIM:  To claim back; to demand the return of as a right; to attempt to recover possession of. A tract of land [Holland] snatched from an element perpetually reclaiming its prior occupancy. W. Coxe. 

RECLAIM:  The act of reclaiming, or the state of being reclaimed; reclamation; recovery. [Obs.] 

RECLAIMABLE:  That may be reclaimed. 

RECLAIMANT:  One who reclaims; one who cries out against or contradicts. 

RECLAIMER:  One who reclaims. 

RECLAIMLESS:  That can not be reclaimed. 

RECLASP:  To clasp or unite again. 

RECLINANT:  Bending or leaning backward. 

RECLINATE:  Reclined, as a leaf; bent downward, so that the point, as of a stem or leaf, is lower than the base. 

RECLINATION:  The angle which the plane of the dial makes with a vertical plane which it intersects in a horizontal line. Brande & C.  3. (Surg.)  The act or process of removing a cataract, by applying the needle to its anterior surface, and depressing it into the vitreous humor in such a way that front surface of the cataract becomes the upper one and its back surface the lower one. Dunglison. 

RECLINE:  To cause or permit to lean, incline, rest, etc., to place in a recumbent position; as, to recline the head on the hand. The mother Reclined her dying head upon his breast. Dryden. 

RECLINE:  Having a reclining posture; leaning; reclining. [R.] They sat, recline On the soft downy bank, damasked with flowers. Milton. 

RECLINED:  Falling or turned downward; reclinate. 

RECLINER:  One who, or that which, reclines. 

RECLOSE:  To close again. Pope. 

RECLOTHE:  To clothe again. 

RECLUDE:  To open; to unclose. [R.] Harvey. 

RECLUSE:  Shut up, sequestered; retired from the world or from public notice; solitary; living apart; as, a recluse monk or hermit; a recluse life In meditation deep, recluse From human converse. J. Philips. 

RECLUSE:  To shut; to seclude. [Obs.] 

RECLUSELY:  In a recluse or solitary manner. 

RECLUSENESS:  Quality or state of being recluse. 

RECLUSION:  A state of retirement from the world; seclusion. 

RECLUSIVE:  Affording retirement from society. "Some reclusive and religious life." Shak. 

RECLUSORY:  The habitation of a recluse; a hermitage. 

RECOCT:  To boil or cook again; hence, to make over; to vamp up; to reconstruct. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

RECOCTION:  A second coction or preparation; a vamping up. 

RECOGNITION:  The act of recognizing, or the state of being recognized; acknowledgment; formal avowal; knowledge confessed or avowed; notice. The lives of such saints had, at the time of their yearly memorials, solemn recognition in the church of God. Hooker. 

RECOGNITOR:  One of a jury impaneled on an assize. Blackstone. 

RECOGNITORY:  Pertaining to, or connected with, recognition. 

RECOGNIZABILITY:  The quality or condition of being recognizable. 

RECOGNIZABLE:  Capable of being recognized. [Written also recognisable.] -- Rec"og*ni`za*bly, adv. 

RECOGNIZATION:  Recognition. [R.] 

RECOGNIZE:  To enter an obligation of record before a proper tribunal; as, A, B recognized in the sum of twenty dollars. [Written also recognise.]  Note: In legal usage in the United States the second syllable is often accented. 

RECOGNIZEE:  The person in whose favor a recognizance is made. [Written also recognisee.] Blackstone. 

RECOGNIZER:  One who recognizes; a recognizor. [Written also recogniser.]  RECOGNIZOR; RECOGNISOR Re*cog`ni*zor", Re*cog`ni*sor", n. (Law)  One who enters into a recognizance. [Written also recognisor.] Blackstone. 

RECOGNOSCE:  To recognize. [R. & Obs.] Boyle. 

RECOIL:  To draw or go back. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RECOILER:  One who, or that which, recoils. 

RECOILINGLY:  In the manner of a recoil. 

RECOILMENT:  Recoil. [R.] 

RECOIN:  To coin anew or again. 

RECOINAGE:  To collect again; to gather what has been scattered; as, to re- collect routed troops. God will one day raise the dead, re-collecting our scattered dust. Barrow. 

RECOLLECT:  A friar of the Strict Observance, -- an order of Franciscans. [Written also Recollet.] Addis & Arnold. 

RECOLLECTIVE:  Having the power of recollecting. J. Foster. 

RECOLLET:  Same as Recollect, n. 

RECOLONIZATION:  A second or renewed colonization. 

RECOLONIZE:  To colonize again. 

RECOMBINATION:  Combination a second or additional time. 

RECOMBINE:  To combine again. 

RECOMFORT:  To comfort again; to console anew; to give new strength to. Bacon. Gan her recomfort from so sad affright. Spenser. 

RECOMFORTLESS:  Without comfort. [Obs.] 

RECOMFORTURE:  The act of recomforting; restoration of comfort. [Obs.] Shak. 

RECOMMENCE:  To commence again or anew. 

RECOMMENCEMENT:  A commencement made anew. 

RECOMMENDABLE:  Suitable to be recommended; worthy of praise; commendable. Glanvill.  -- Rec`om*mend"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Rec`om*mend"a*bly, adv. 

RECOMMENDATIVE:  That which recommends; a recommendation. [Obs.] 

RECOMMENDATORY:  Serving to recommend; recommending; commendatory. Swift. 

RECOMMENDER:  One who recommends. 

RECOMMISSION:  To commission again; to give a new commission to. Officers whose time of service had expired were to be recommissioned. Marshall. 

RECOMMIT:  To commit again; to give back into keeping; specifically, to refer again to a committee; as, to recommit a bill to the same committee.  RECOMMITMENT; RECOMMITTAL Re`com*mit"ment (-mnt), Re`com*mit"tal (-l), n.  A second or renewed commitment; a renewed reference to a committee. 

RECOMPACT:  To compact or join anew. "Recompact my scattered body." Donne. 

RECOMPENSATION:  Used to denote a case where a set-off pleaded by the defendant is met by a set-off pleaded by the plaintiff. 

RECOMPENSE:  To give recompense; to make amends or requital. [Obs.] 

RECOMPENSE:  An equivalent returned for anything done, suffered, or given; compensation; requital; suitable return. To me belongeth vengeance, and recompense. Deut. xxii. 35. And every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward. Heb. ii. 2.  Syn.  -- Repayment; compensation; remuneration; amends; satisfaction; reward; requital. 

RECOMPENSEMENT:  Recompense; requital. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

RECOMPENSER:  One who recompenses. A thankful recompenser of the benefits received. Foxe. 

RECOMPENSIVE:  Of the nature of recompense; serving to recompense. Sir T. Browne. 

RECOMPILATION:  A new compilation. 

RECOMPILE:  To compile anew. 

RECOMPILEMENT:  The act of recompiling; new compilation or digest; as, a recompilement of the laws. Bacon. 

RECOMPOSER:  One who recomposes. 

RECOMPOSITION:  The act of recomposing. 

RECONCENTRADO:  Lit., one who has been reconcentrated; specif., in Cuba, the Philippines, etc., during the revolution of 1895-98, one of the rural noncombatants who were concentrated by the military authorities in areas surrounding the fortified towns, and later were reconcentrated in the smaller limits of the towns themselves. 

RECONCENTRATE:  To concentrate again; to concentrate thoroughly. 

RECONCENTRATION:  The act of reconcentrating or the state of being reconcentrated; esp., the act or policy of concentrating the rural population in or about towns and villages for convenience in political or military administration, as in Cuba during the revolution of 1895-98. 

RECONCILABLE:  Capable of being reconciled; as, reconcilable adversaries; an act reconciable with previous acts. The different accounts of the numbers of ships are reconcilable. Arbuthnot. -- Rec"on*ci`la*ble*ness, n.  -- Rec"on*ci`la*bly, adv. 

RECONCILE:  To become reconciled. [Obs.] 

RECONCILEMENT:  Reconciliation. Milton. 

RECONCILER:  One who reconciles. 

RECONCILIATORY:  Serving or tending to reconcile. Bp. Hall. 

RECONDENSATION:  The act or process of recondensing. 

RECONDENSE:  To condense again. 

RECONDITORY:  A repository; a storehouse. [Obs.] Ash. 

RECONDUCT:  To conduct back or again. "A guide to reconduct thy steps." Dryden. 

RECONFIRM:  To confirm anew. Clarendon. 

RECONFORT:  To recomfort; to comfort. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RECONJOIN:  To join or conjoin anew. Boyle.  RECONNOISSANCE; RECONNAISSANCE Re*con"nois*sance, Re*con"nais*sance (r-kn"ns-sns), n. Etym: [F. See Recognizance.]  The act of reconnoitering; preliminary examination or survey. Specifically: (a) (Geol.) An examination or survey of a region in reference to its general geological character. (b) (Engin.)  An examination of a region as to its general natural features, preparatory to a more particular survey for the purposes of triangulation, or of determining the location of a public work. (c) (Mil.) An examination of a territory, or of an enemy's position, for the purpose of obtaining information necessary for directing military operations; a preparatory expedition. Reconnoissance in force (Mil.), a demonstration or attack by a large force of troops for the purpose of discovering the position and strength of an enemy.  RECONNOITER; RECONNOITRE Rec`on*noi"ter, Rec`on*noi"tre (rk`n*noi"tr), v. t. Etym: [F. reconnoitre, a former spelling of reconnaître. See Recognize.]  1. To examine with the eye to make a preliminary examination or survey of; esp., to survey with a view to military or engineering operations.  2. To recognize. [Obs.] Sir H. Walpole. 

RECONQUER:  To conquer again; to recover by conquest; as, to reconquer a revolted province. 

RECONQUEST:  A second conquest. 

RECONSECRATE:  To consecrate anew or again. 

RECONSECRATION:  Renewed consecration. 

RECONSIDER:  To take up for renewed consideration, as a motion or a vote which has been previously acted upon. 

RECONSIDERATION:  The act of reconsidering, or the state of being reconsidered; as, the reconsideration of a vote in a legislative body. 

RECONSOLATE:  To console or comfort again. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

RECONSOLIDATE:  To consolidate anew or again. 

RECONSOLIDATION:  The act or process of reconsolidating; the state of being reconsolidated. 

RECONSTRUCT:  To construct again; to rebuild; to remodel; to form again or anew. Regiments had been dissolved and reconstructed. Macaulay. 

RECONSTRUCTION:  The act or process of reorganizing the governments of the States which had passed ordinances of secession, and of reëstablishing their constitutional relations to the national government, after the close of the Civil War. 

RECONSTRUCTIVE:  Reconstructing; tending to reconstruct; as, a reconstructive policy. 

RECONTINUANCE:  The act or state of recontinuing. 

RECONTINUE:  To continue anew. 

RECONVENE:  To convene or assemble again; to call or come together again. 

RECONVENTION:  A cross demand; an action brought by the defendant against the plaintiff before the same judge. Burrill. Bouvier. 

RECONVERSION:  A second conversion. 

RECONVERT:  To convert again. Milton. 

RECONVERT:  A person who has been reconverted. Gladstone. 

RECONVERTIBLE:  Capable of being reconverted; convertible again to the original form or condition. 

RECONVEYANCE:  Act of reconveying. 

RECOPY:  To copy again. 

RECORDANCE:  Remembrance. [Obs.] 

RECORDATION:  Remembrance; recollection; also, a record. [Obs.] Shak. 

RECORDER:  A kind of wind instrument resembling the flageolet. [Obs.] "Flutes and soft recorders." Milton. 

RECORDERSHIP:  The office of a recorder. 

RECORDING:  Keeping a record or a register; as, a recording secretary; -- applied to numerous instruments with an automatic appliance which makes a record of their action; as, a recording gauge or telegraph. 

RECORPORIFICATION:  The act of investing again with a body; the state of being furnished anew with a body. [R.] Boyle. 

RECOUCH:  To retire again to a couch; to lie down again. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

RECOUNT:  To count or reckon again. 

RECOUNT:  A counting again, as of votes. 

RECOUNT:  To tell over; to relate in detail; to recite; to tell or narrate the particulars of; to rehearse; to enumerate; as, to recount one's blessings. Dryden. To all his angels, who, with true applause, Recount his praises. Milton. 

RECOUNTMENT:  Recital. [Obs.] Shak.  RECOUP; RECOUPE Re*coup", Re*coupe" (-kp"), v. t. Etym: [F. recouper; pref. re- re- + couper to cut.]  1. (Law)  To keep back rightfully (a part), as if by cutting off, so as to diminish a sum due; to take off (a part) from damages; to deduct; as, where a landlord recouped the rent of premises from damages awarded to the plaintiff for eviction.  2. To get an equivalent or compensation for; as, to recoup money lost at the gaming table; to recoup one's losses in the share market.  3. To reimburse; to indemnify; -- often used reflexively and in the passive. Elizabeth had lost her venture; but if she was bold, she might recoup herself at Philip's cost. Froude. Industry is sometimes recouped for a small price by extensive custom. Duke of Argyll. 

RECOUPER:  One who recoups. Story. 

RECOUPMENT:  The act of recouping.  Note: Recoupment applies to equities growing out of the very affair from which thw principal demand arises, set-off to cross-demands which may be independent in origin. Abbott. 

RECOURSEFUL:  Having recurring flow and ebb; moving alternately. [Obs.] Drayton. 

RECOVER:  To cover again. Sir W. Scott. 

RECOVER:  To gain as a compensation; to obtain in return for injury or debt; as, to recover damages in trespass; to recover debt and costs in a suit at law; to obtain title to by judgement in a court of law; as, to recover lands in ejectment or common recovery; to gain by legal process; as, to recover judgement against a defendant. Recover arms (Mil. Drill), a command whereby the piece is brought from the position of "aim" to that of "ready."  Syn.  -- To regain; repossess; resume; retrieve; recruit; heal; cure. 

RECOVER:  To obtain a judgement; to succeed in a lawsuit; as, the plaintiff has recovered in his suit. 

RECOVER:  Recovery. Sir T. Malory. 

RECOVERABLE:  Capable of being recovered or regained; capable of being brought back to a former condition, as from sickness, misfortune, etc.; obtainable from a debtor or possessor; as, the debt is recoverable; goods lost or sunk in the ocean are not recoverable. A prodigal course Is like the sun's; but not, like his, recoverable. Shak. If I am recoverable, why am I thus Cowper. -- Re*cov"er*a*ble*ness, n. 

RECOVERANCE:  Recovery. [Obs.] 

RECOVEREE:  The person against whom a judgment is obtained in common recovery. 

RECOVERER:  One who recovers. 

RECOVEROR:  The demandant in a common recovery after judgment. Wharton. 

RECOVERY:  The obtaining in a suit at law of a right to something by a verdict and judgment of court.  4. The getting, or gaining, of something not previously had. [Obs.] "Help be past recovery." Tusser.  5. In rowing, the act of regaining the proper position for making a new stroke. Common recovery (Law), a species of common assurance or mode of conveying lands by matter of record, through the forms of an action at law, formerly in frequent use, but now abolished or obsolete, both in England and America. Burrill. Warren. 

RECREANCE:  Recreancy. 

RECREANCY:  The quality or state of being recreant. 

RECREANT:  One who yields in combat, and begs for mercy; a mean-spirited, cowardly wretch. Blackstone. You are all recreants and dastards! Shak.  RE-CREATE Re`-cre*ate" (r`kr*t"), v. t. Etym: [Pref. re- + create.]  To create or form anew. On opening the campaign of 1776, instead of reënforcing, it was necessary to re-create, the army. Marshall. 

RECREATE:  To give fresh life to; to reanimate; to revive; especially, to refresh after wearying toil or anxiety; to relieve; to cheer; to divert; to amuse; to gratify. Painters, when they work on white grounds, place before them colors mixed with blue and green, to recreate their eyes, white wearying . . . the sight more than any. Dryden. St. John, who recreated himself with sporting with a tame partridge. Jer. Taylor. These ripe fruits recreate the nostrils with their aromatic scent. Dr. H. More. 

RECREATE:  To take recreation. L. Addison. 

RECREATION:  The act of recreating, or the state of being recreated; refreshment of the strength and spirits after toil; amusement; diversion; sport; pastime.  RE-CREATION Re`-*cre*a"tion (r`kr*shn), n. Etym: [See Re-create.]  A forming anew; a new creation or formation.  RE-CREATION Re`-cre*a"tion (r`kr*shn), n. [See Re-create.]  A forming anew; a new creation or formation.  RE-CREATIVE Re`-cre*a"tive (-`tv), a.  Creating anew; as, re-creative power. 

RECREATIVE:  Tending to recreate or refresh; recreating; giving new vigor or animation; reinvigorating; giving relief after labor or pain; amusing; diverting. Let the music of them be recreative. Bacon. --- Rec"re*a`tive*ly, adv.  -- Rec"re*a`tive*ness, n. 

RECREMENTAL:  Recrementitious. 

RECREMENTITIAL:  Of the nature of a recrement. See Recrement,2 (b). "Recrementitial fluids." Dunglison. 

RECREMENTITIOUS:  Of or pertaining to recrement; consisting of recrement or dross. Boyle. 

RECRIMINATE:  To return one charge or accusation with another; to chargeback fault or crime upon an accuser. It is not my business to recriminate, hoping sufficiently toBp. Stillingfleet. 

RECRIMINATE:  To accuse in return. South. 

RECRIMINATION:  The act of recriminating; an accusation brought by the accused against the accuser; a counter accusation. Accusations and recriminations passed back ward and forward between the contending parties. Macaulay. 

RECRIMINATIVE:  Recriminatory. 

RECRIMINATOR:  One who recriminates. 

RECRIMINATORY:  Having the quality of recrimination; retorting accusation; recriminating. 

RECROSS:  To cross a second time. 

RECRUDENCY:  Recrudescence. 

RECRUDESCE:  To be in a state of recrudescence; esp., to come into renewed freshness, vigor, or activity; to revive.  The general influence . . . which is liable every now and then to recrudesce in his absence. Edmund Gurney.  RECRUDESCENCE; RECRUDESCENCY Re`cru*des"cence (r`kr*ds"sens), Re`cru*des`cen*cy (-ds"sen*s), n. Etym: [Cf. F. recrudescence.]  1. The state or condition of being recrudescent. A recrudescence of barbarism may condemn it [land] to chronic poverty and waste. Duke of Argyll.  2. (Med.)  Increased severity of a disease after temporary remission. Dunglison. 

RECRUITER:  One who, or that which, recruits. 

RECRUITMENT:  The act or process of recruiting; especially, the enlistment of men for an army. 

RECRYSTALLIZATION:  The process or recrystallizing. 

RECRYSTALLIZE:  To crystallize again. Henry. 

RECTAL:  Of or pertaining to the rectum; in the region of the rectum. 

RECTANGLE:  A four-sided figure having only right angles; a right-angled parallelogram.  Note: As the area of a rectangle is expressed by the product of its two dimensions, the term rectangle is sometimes used for product; as, the rectangle of a and b, that is, ab. 

RECTANGLE:  Rectangular. [R.] 

RECTANGLED:  Rectangular. Hutton. 

RECTANGULAR:  Right-angled; having one or more angles of ninety degrees.  -- Rec*tan"gu*lar*ly (r, adv.  -- Rec*tan"gu*lar*ness, n. 

RECTANGULARITY:  The quality or condition of being rectangular, or right-angled.  RECTI- Rec"ti- (rk"t*). Etym: [L. rectus straight.]  A combining form signifying straight; as, rectilineal, having straight lines; rectinerved. 

RECTIFIABLE:  Admitting, as a curve, of the construction of a straight l 

RECTIFICATION:  The determination of a straight line whose length is equal a portion of a curve. Rectification of a globe (Astron.), its adjustment preparatory to the solution of a proposed problem. 

RECTIFICATOR:  That which rectifies or refines; esp., a part of a distilling apparatus in which the more volatile portions are separated from the less volatile by the process of evaporation and condensation; a rectifier. 

RECTIFY:  To refine or purify by repeated distillation or sublimation, by which the fine parts of a substance are separated from the grosser; as, to rectify spirit of wine.  3. (Com.)  To produce ( as factitious gin or brandy) by redistilling low wines or ardent spirits (whisky, rum, etc.), flavoring substances, etc., being added. To rectify a globe, to adjust it in order to prepare for the solution of a proposed problem.  Syn.  -- To amend; emend; correct; better; mend; reform; redress; adjust; regulate; improve. See Amend.  RECTILINEAL; RECTILINEAR Rec`ti*lin"e*al, Rec`ti*lin"e*ar (-ln"*r), a. Etym: [Recti- + lineal, linear.]  Straight; consisting of a straight line or lines; bounded by straight lines; as, a rectineal angle; a rectilinear figure or course.  -- Rec`ti*lin"e*al*ly, adv.  -- Rec`ti*lin"e*ar*ly, adv. 

RECTILINEARITY:  The quality or state of being rectilinear. Coleridge. 

RECTILINEOUS:  Rectilinear. [Obs.] Ray. 

RECTINERVED:  Having the veins or nerves straight; -- said of leaves. 

RECTION:  See Government, n., 7. Gibbs. 

RECTIROSTRAL:  Having a straight beak. 

RECTISERIAL:  Arranged in exactly vertical ranks, as the leaves on stems of many kinds; -- opposed to curviserial. 

RECTITIS:  Proctitis. Dunglison. 

RECTITUDE:  A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, the rectum; as, recto-vesical. 

RECTO:  A writ of right. 

RECTO:  The right-hand page; -- opposed to verso. 

RECTOR:  A clergyman in charge of a parish.  3. The head master of a public school. [Scot.]  4. The chief elective officer of some universities, as in France and Scotland; sometimes, the head of a college; as, the Rector of Exeter College, or of Lincoln College, at Oxford.  5. (R.C.CH.)  The superior officer or chief of a convent or religious house; and among the Jesuits the superior of a house that is a seminary or college. 

RECTORAL:  Pertaining to a rector or governor. 

RECTORATE:  The office, rank, or station of a rector; rectorship. 

RECTORIAL:  Pertaining to a rector or a rectory; rectoral. Shipley. 

RECTORY:  Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the uterus. 

RECTOVAGINAL:  Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the vagina.  RECTO-VESICAL Rec`to-ves"i*cal (-vs"*kal), a. (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the bladder. 

RECTRESS:  A rectoress. B. Jonson. 

RECTRIX:  One of the quill feathers of the tail of a bird. 

RECTUM:  The terminal part of the large intestine; -- so named because supposed by the old anatomists to be straight. See Illust. under Digestive. 

RECTUS:  A straight muscle; as, the recti of the eye. 

RECUBATION:  Recumbence. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

RECULE:  To recoil. [Obs.] Spenser.  RECULE; RECULEMENT Re*cule" (r*kl"), Re*cule"ment (-ment), n. Etym: [F. reculement.]  Recoil. [Obs.] 

RECUMB:  To lean; to recline; to repose. [Obs.] J. Allen (1761). 

RECUMBENCE:  The act of leaning, resting, or reclining; the state of being recumbent. 

RECUMBENCY:  Recumbence. 

RECUMBENT:  Leaning; reclining; lying; as, the recumbent posture of the Romans at their meals. Hence, figuratively; Resting; inactive; idle.  -- Re*cum"bent*ly, adv. 

RECUPERABLE:  Recoverable. Sir T. Elyot. 

RECUPERATE:  To recover health; to regain strength; to convalesce. 

RECUPERATE:  To recover; to regain; as, to recuperate the health or strength. 

RECUPERATION:  Recovery, as of anything lost, especially of the health or strength.  RECUPERATIVE; RECUPERATORY Re*cu"per*a*tive (-*tv), Re*cu"per*a*to*ry (-*t*r), a. Etym: [L. recuperativus, recuperatorius.]  Of or pertaining to recuperation; tending to recovery. 

RECUPERATOR:  Same as Regenerator. 

RECURE:  Cure; remedy; recovery. [Obs.] But whom he hite, without recure he dies. Fairfax. 

RECURELESS:  Incapable of cure. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.  RECURRENCE; RECURRENCY Re*cur"rence, Re*cur"ren*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. récurrence.]  The act of recurring, or state of being recurrent; return; resort; recourse. I shall insensibly go on from a rare to a frequent recurrence to the dangerous preparations. I. Taylor. 

RECURRENT:  Running back toward its origin; as, a recurrent nerve or artery. Recurrent fever. (Med.) See Relapsing fever, under Relapsing.  -- Recurrent pulse (Physiol.), the pulse beat which appears (when the radial artery is compressed at the wrist) on the distal side of the point of pressure through the arteries of the palm of the hand.  -- Recurrent sensibility (Physiol.), the sensibility manifested by the anterior, or motor, roots of the spinal cord (their stimulation causing pain) owing to the presence of sensory fibers from the corresponding sensory or posterior roots. 

RECURSANT:  Displayed with the back toward the spectator; -- said especially of an eagle. 

RECURSION:  The act of recurring; return. [Obs.] Boyle. 

RECURVATE:  Recurved. 

RECURVATE:  To bend or curve back; to recurve. Pennant. 

RECURVATION:  The act of recurving, or the state of being recurved; a bending or flexure backward. 

RECURVE:  To curve in an opposite or unusual direction; to bend back or down. 

RECURVED:  Curved in an opposite or uncommon direction; bent back; as, a bird with a recurved bill; flowers with recurved petals. 

RECURVIROSTER:  A bird whose beak bends upward, as the avocet. 

RECURVIROSTRAL:  Having the beak bent upwards. 

RECURVITY:  Recurvation. 

RECURVOUS:  Recurved. Derham. 

RECUSANCY:  The state of being recusant; nonconformity. Coke. 

RECUSANT:  Obstinate in refusal; specifically, in English history, refusing to acknowledge the supremacy of the king in the churc, or to conform to the established rites of the church; as, a recusant lord. It stated him to have placed his son in the household of the Countess of Derby, a recusant papist. Sir W. Scott. 

RECUSANT:  A person who refuses to acknowledge the supremacy of the king in matters of religion; as, a Roman Catholic recusant, who acknowledges the supremacy of the pope. Brande & C.  3. One who refuses communion with the Church of England; a nonconformist. All that are recusants of holy rites. Holyday. 

RECUSATION:  The act of refusing a judge or challenging that he shall not try the cause, on account of his supposed partiality. Blackstone. 

RECUSATIVE:  Refusing; denying; negative. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

RECUSE:  To refuse or reject, as a judge; to challenge that the judge shall not try the cause. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 

RECUSSION:  The act of beating or striking back. 

RED:  . imp. & p. p. of Read. Spenser. 

RED:  To put on order; to make tidy; also, to free from entanglement or embarrassement; -- generally with up; as, to red up a house. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

RED:  Of the color of blood, or of a tint resembling that color; of the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is furthest from the violet part. "Fresh flowers, white and reede." Chaucer. Your color, I warrant you, is as red as any rose. Shak.  Note: Red is a general term, including many different shades or hues, as scarlet, crimson, vermilion, orange red, and the like.  Note: Red is often used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, red-breasted, red-cheeked, red-faced, red-haired, red- headed, red-skinned, red-tailed, red-topped, red-whiskered, red- coasted. Red admiral (Zoöl.), a beautiful butterfly (Vanessa Atalanta) common in both Europe and America. The front wings are crossed by a broad orange red band. The larva feeds on nettles. Called also Atlanta butterfly, and nettle butterfly.  -- Red ant. (Zoöl.) (a) A very small ant (Myrmica molesta) which often infests houses. (b) A larger reddish ant (Formica sanquinea), native of Europe and America. It is one of the slave-making species.  -- Red antimony (Min.), kermesite. See Kermes mineral (b), under Kermes.  -- Red ash (Bot.), an American tree (Fraxinus pubescens), smaller than the white ash, and less valuable for timber. Cray.  -- Red bass. (Zoöl.) See Redfish (d).  -- Red bay (Bot.), a tree (Persea Caroliniensis) having the heartwood red, found in swamps in the Southern United States.  -- Red beard (Zoöl.), a bright red sponge (Microciona prolifera), common on oyster shells and stones. [Local, U.S.] -- Red birch (Bot.), a species of birch (Betula nigra) having reddish brown bark, and compact, light-colored wood. Gray.  -- Red blindness. (Med.) See Daltonism.  -- Red book, a book containing the names of all the persons in the service of the state. [Eng.] -- Red book of the Exchequer, an ancient record in which are registered the names of all that held lands per baroniam in the time of Henry II. Brande & C.  -- Red brass, an alloy containing eight parts of copper and three of zinc.  -- Red bug. (Zoöl.) (a) A very small mite which in Florida attacks man, and produces great irritation by its bites. (b) A red hemipterous insect of the genus Pyrrhocoris, especially the European species (P. apterus), which is bright scarlet and lives in clusters on tree trunks. (c) See Cotton stainder, under Cotton.  -- Red cedar. (Bot.) An evergreen North American tree (Juniperus Virginiana) having a fragrant red-colored heartwood. (b) A tree of India and Australia (Cedrela Toona) having fragrant reddish wood; -- called also toon tree in India.  -- Red chalk. See under Chalk.  -- Red copper (Min.), red oxide of copper; cuprite.  -- Red coral (Zoöl.), the precious coral (Corallium rubrum). See Illusts. of Coral and Gorgonlacea.  -- Red cross. The cross of St. George, the national emblem of the English. (b) The Geneva cross. See Geneva convention, and Geneva cross, under Geneva.  -- Red currant. (Bot.) See Currant.  -- Red deer. (Zoöl.) (a) The common stag (Cervus elaphus), native of the forests of the temperate parts of Europe and Asia. It is very similar to the American elk, or wapiti. (b) The Virginia deer. See Deer.  -- Red duck (Zoöl.), a European reddish brown duck (Fuligula nyroca); -- called also ferruginous duck.  -- Red ebony. (Bot.) See Grenadillo.  -- Red empress (Zoöl.), a butterfly. See Tortoise shell.  -- Red fir (Bot.), a coniferous tree (Pseudotsuga Douglasii) found from British Columbia to Texas, and highly valued for its durable timber. The name is sometimes given to other coniferous trees, as the Norway spruce and the American Abies magnifica and A. nobilis.  -- Red fire. (Pyrotech.) See Blue fire, under Fire.  -- Red flag. See under Flag.  -- Red fox (Zoöl.), the common American fox (Vulpes fulvus), which is usually reddish in color.  -- Red grouse (Zoöl.), the Scotch grouse, or ptarmigan. See under Ptarmigan.  -- Red gum, or Red gum-tree (Bot.), a name given to eight Australian species of Eucalyptus (Eucalyptus amygdalina, resinifera, etc.) which yield a reddish gum resin. See Eucalyptus.  -- Red hand (Her.), a left hand appaumé, fingers erect, borne on an escutcheon, being the mark of a baronet of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland; -- called also Badge of Ulster.  -- Red herring, the common herring dried and smoked.  -- Red horse. (Zoöl.) (a) Any large American red fresh-water sucker, especially Moxostoma macrolepidotum and allied species. (b) See the Note under Drumfish.  -- Red lead. (Chem) See under Lead, and Minium.  -- Red-lead ore. (Min.) Same as Crocoite.  -- Red liquor (Dyeing), a solution consisting essentially of aluminium acetate, used as a mordant in the fixation of dyestuffs on vegetable fiber; -- so called because used originally for red dyestuffs. Called also red mordant.  -- Red maggot (Zoöl.), the larva of the wheat midge.  -- Red manganese. (Min.) Same as Rhodochrosite.  -- Red man, one of the American Indians; -- so called from his color.  -- Red maple (Bot.), a species of maple (Acer rubrum). See Maple.  -- Red mite. (Zoöl.) See Red spider, below.  -- Red mulberry (Bot.), an American mulberry of a dark purple color (Morus rubra).  -- Red mullet (Zoöl.), the surmullet. See Mullet.  -- Red ocher (Min.), a soft earthy variety of hematite, of a reddish color.  -- Red perch (Zoöl.), the rosefish.  -- Red phosphorus. (Chem.) See under Phosphorus.  -- Red pine (Bot.), an American species of pine (Pinus resinosa); -- so named from its reddish bark.  -- Red precipitate. See under Precipitate.  -- Red Republican (European Politics), originally, one who maintained extreme republican doctrines in France, -- because a red liberty cap was the badge of the party; an extreme radical in social reform. [Cant] -- Red ribbon, the ribbon of the Order of the Bath in England.  -- Red sanders. (Bot.) See Sanders.  -- Red sandstone. (Geol.) See under Sandstone.  -- Red scale (Zoöl.), a scale insect (Aspidiotus aurantii) very injurious to the orange tree in California and Australia.  -- Red silver (Min.), an ore of silver, of a ruby-red or reddish black color. It includes proustite, or light red silver, and pyrargyrite, or dark red silver.  -- Red snapper (Zoöl.), a large fish (Lutlanus aya or Blackfordii) abundant in the Gulf of Mexico and about the Florida reefs.  -- Red snow, snow colored by a mocroscopic unicellular alga (Protococcus nivalis) which produces large patches of scarlet on the snows of arctic or mountainous regions.  -- Red softening (Med.) a form of cerebral softening in which the affected parts are red, -- a condition due either to infarction or inflammation.  -- Red spider (Zoöl.), a very small web-spinning mite (Tetranychus telarius) which infests, and often destroys, plants of various kinds, especially those cultivated in houses and conservatories. It feeds mostly on the under side of the leaves, and causes them to turn yellow and die. The adult insects are usually pale red. Called also red mite.  -- Red squirrel (Zoöl.), the chickaree.  -- Red tape, the tape used in public offices for tying up documents, etc.; hence, official formality and delay.  -- Red underwing (Zoöl.), any species of noctuid moths belonging to Catacola and allied genera. The numerous species are mostly large and handsomely colored. The under wings are commonly banded with bright red or orange.  -- Red water, a disease in cattle, so called from an appearance like blood in the urine. 

RED:  An abbreviation for Red Republican. See under Red, a. [Cant]  4. pl. (Med.)  The menses. Dunglison. English red, a pigment prepared by the Dutch, similar to Indian red.  -- Hypericum red, a red resinous dyestuff extracted from Hypericum.  -- Indian red. See under Indian, and Almagra. 

REDACT:  To reduce to form, as literary matter; to digest and put in shape (matter for publication); to edit. 

REDACTEUR:  See Redactor. 

REDACTION:  The act of redacting; work produced by redacting; a digest. 

REDACTOR:  One who redacts; one who prepares matter for publication; an editor. Carlyle. 

REDAN:  A work having two parapets whose faces unite so as to form a salient angle toward the enemy.  2. A step or vertical offset in a wall on uneven ground, to keep the parts level. 

REDARGUE:  To disprove; to refute; toconfute; to reprove; to convict. [Archaic] How shall I . . . suffer that God should redargue me at doomsday, and the angels reproach my lukewarmness Jer. Taylor. Now this objection to the immediate cognition of external objects has, as far as I know, been redargued in three different ways. Sir W. Hamilton. 

REDARGUTION:  The act of redarguing; refutation. [Obs. or R.] Bacon. 

REDARGUTORY:  Pertaining to, or containing, redargution; refutatory. [R.] 

REDBACK:  The dunlin. [U. S.] 

REDBELLY:  The char. 

REDBREAST:  The long-eared pondfish. See Pondfish. 

REDBUD:  A small ornamental leguminous tree of the American species of the genus Cercis. See Judas tree, under Judas. 

REDCAP:  The European goldfinch.  2. A specter having long teeth, popularly supposed to haunt old castles in Scotland. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

REDCOAT:  One who wears a red coat; specifically, a red-coated British soldier.  RED CROSS Red Cross.  1. The crusaders or the cause they represented.  2.  A hospital or ambulance service established as a result of, though not provided for by, the Geneva convention of 1864; any of the national societies for alleviating the sufferings of the sick and wounded war, also giving aid and relief during great calamities; also, a member or worker of such a society; -- so called from the badge of neutrality; the Geneva cross. 

REDDE:  obs. imp. of Read, or Rede. Chaucer. 

REDDEN:  To make red or somewhat red; to give a red color to. 

REDDEN:  To grow or become red; to blush. Appius reddens at each word you speak. Pope. He no sooner saw that her eye glistened and her cheek reddened than his obstinacy was at once subbued. Sir W. SCott. 

REDDENDUM:  A clause in a deed by which some new thing is reserved out of what had been granted before; the clause by which rent is reserved in a lease. Cruise. 

REDDISH:  Somewhat red; moderately red.  -- Red"dish*ness, n. 

REDDITIVE:  Answering to an interrogative or inquiry; conveying a reply; as, redditive words. 

REDDLE:  Red chalk. See under Chalk.  RED DOG FLOUR; RED-DOG FLOUR Red dog, or Red`-dog" flour.  The lowest grade of flour in milling. It is dark and of little expansive power, is secured largely from the germ or embryo and adjacent parts, and contains a relatively high percentage of protein. It is chiefly useful as feed for farm animals. 

REDDOUR:  Rigor; violence. [Obs.] Gower. 

REDEEM:  Hence, to rescue and deliver from the bondage of sin and the penalties of God's violated law. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. Gal. iii. 13.  5. To make good by performing fully; to fulfill; as, to redeem one's promises. I will redeem all this on Percy's head. Shak.  6. To pay the penalty of; to make amends for; to serve as an equivalent or offset for; to atone for; to compensate; as, to redeem an error. Which of ye will be mortal, to redeem Man's mortal crime Milton. It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows. Shak. To redeem the time, to make the best use of it. 

REDEEMABILITY:  Redeemableness. 

REDEEMABLENESS:  The quality or state of being redeemable; redeemability. 

REDELESS:  Without rede or counsel. [Obs.] 

REDELIBERATE:  To deliberate again; to reconsider. 

REDELIVERANCE:  A second deliverance. 

REDEMAND:  To demand back; to demand again. 

REDEMAND:  A demanding back; a second or renewed demand. 

REDEMISE:  To demise back; to convey or transfer back, as an estate. 

REDEMISE:  The transfer of an estate back to the person who demised it; reconveyance; as, the demise and redemise of an estate. See under Demise. 

REDEMONSTRATE:  To demonstrate again, or anew. Every truth of morals must be redemonstrated in the experience of the individual man before he is capable of utilizing it as a constituent of character or a guide in action. Lowell. 

REDEMPTIBLE:  Redeemable.  RE-DEMPTION Re-demp"tion (-shn), n. Etym: [F. rédemption, L. redemptio. See Redeem, and cf. Ransom.]  The act of redeeming, or the state of being redeemed; repurchase; ransom; release; rescue; deliverance; as, the redemption of prisoners taken in war; the redemption of a ship and cargo. Specifically: (a) (Law) The liberation of an estate from a mortgage, or the taking back of property mortgaged, upon performance of the terms or conditions on which it was conveyed; also, the right of redeeming and reëntering upon an estate mortgaged. See Equity of redemption, under Equity. (b) (Com.) Performance of the obligation stated in a note, bill, bond, or other evidence of debt, by making payment to the holder. (c) (Theol.) The procuring of God's favor by the sufferings and death of Christ; the ransom or deliverance of sinners from the bondage of sin and the penalties of God's violated law. In whom we have redemption through his blood. Eph. i. 7. 

REDEMPTIONARY:  One who is, or may be, redeemed. [R.] Hakluyt. 

REDEMPTIONIST:  A monk of an order founded in 1197; -- so called because the order was especially devoted to the redemption of Christians held in captivity by the Mohammedans. Called also Trinitarian. 

REDEMPTIVE:  Serving or tending to redeem; redeeming; as, the redemptive work of Christ. 

REDEMPTORIST:  One of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, founded in Naples in 1732 by St. Alphonsus Maria de Liquori. It was introduced onto the United States in 1832 at Detroit. The Fathers of the Congregation devote themselves to preaching to the neglected, esp. in missions and retreats, and are forbidden by their rule to engage in the instruction of youth. 

REDEMPTORY:  Paid for ransom; serving to redeem. "Hector's redemptory price." Chapman. 

REDEMPTURE:  Redemption. [Obs.] 

REDENTED:  Formed like the teeth of a saw; indented. 

REDEPOSIT:  To deposit again. 

REDESCEND:  To descend again. Howell. 

REDEVELOP:  To develop again; specif. (Photog.),  to intensify (a developed image), as by bleaching with mercuric chloride and subsequently subjecting anew to a developing agent. -- Re`de*vel"op*er (#), n. --Re`de*vel"op*ment (#), n. 

REDFIN:  A small North American dace (Minnilus cornutus, or Notropis megalops). The male, in the breeding season, has bright red fins. Called also red dace, and shiner. Applied also to Notropis ardens, of the Mississippi valley. 

REDFINCH:  The European linnet. 

REDFISH:  An eruption of red pimples upon the face, neck, and arms, in early infancy; tooth rash; strophulus. Good.  2. A name of rust on grain. See Rust.  RED-HAND; RED-HANDED Red"-hand` (rd"hnd`), Red"-hand`ed (-hnd`d), a. or adv.  Having hands red with blood; in the very act, as if with red or bloody hands; -- said of a person taken in the act of homicide; hence, fresh from the commission of crime; as, he was taken red-hand or red-handed. 

REDHEAD:  A kind of milkweed (Asclepias Curassavica) with red flowers. It is used in medicine. 

REDHIBITION:  The annulling of a sale, and the return by the buyer of the article sold, on account of some defect. 

REDHIBITORY:  Of or pertaining to redhibition; as, a redhibitory action or fault. 

REDHOOP:  The male of the European bullfinch. [Prov. Eng.] 

REDHORN:  Any species of a tribe of butterflies (Fugacia) including the common yellow species and the cabbage butterflies. The antennæ are usually red.  RED-HOT Red"-hot` (-ht`), a.  Red with heat; heated to redness; as, red-hot iron; red-hot balls. Hence, figuratively, excited; violent; as, a red-hot radical. Shak. 

REDIA:  A kind of larva, or nurse, which is prroduced within the sporocyst of certain trematodes by asexual generation. It in turn produces, in the same way, either another generation of rediæ, or else cercariæ within its own body. Called also proscolex, and nurse. See Illustration in Appendix. 

REDIENT:  Returning. [R.] 

REDIF:  A reserve force in the Turkish army, or a soldier of the reserve. See Army organization, above. 

REDIGEST:  To digest, or reduce to form, a second time. Kent. 

REDIMINISH:  To diminish again. 

REDINGOTE:  A long plain double-breasted outside coat for women. 

REDINTEGRATE:  Restored to wholeness or a perfect state; renewed. Bacon. 

REDINTEGRATE:  To make whole again; a renew; to restore to integrity or soundness. The English nation seems obliterated. What could redintegrate us again Coleridge. 

REDINTEGRATION:  Restoration of a mixed body or matter to its former nature and state. [Achaic.] Coxe.  3. (Psychology)  The law that objects which have been previously combined as part of a single mental state tend to recall or suggest one another; -- adopted by many philosophers to explain the phenomena of the association of ideas. 

REDIRECT:  Applied to the examination of a witness, by the party calling him, after the cross-examination. 

REDISBURSE:  To disburse anew; to give, or pay, back. Spenser. 

REDISCOVER:  To discover again. 

REDISPOSE:  To dispose anew or again; to readjust; to rearrange. A. Baxter. 

REDISSEIZE:  To disseize anew, or a second time. [Written also redisseise.] 

REDISSEIZIN:  A disseizin by one who once before was adjudged to have dassezed the same person of the same lands, etc.; also, a writ which lay in such a case. Blackstone. 

REDISSEIZOR:  One who redisseizes. 

REDISSOLVE:  To dissolve again. 

REDISTILL:  To distill again. 

REDISTRAINER:  One who distrains again. 

REDISTRIBUTE:  To distribute again.  -- Re*dis`tri*bu"tion (-tr, n. 

REDISTRICT:  To divide into new districts. 

REDITION:  Act of returning; return. [Obs.] Chapman. 

REDIVIDE:  To divide anew. 

REDIVIVUS:  Living again; revived; restored.  REDLEG; REDLEGS Red"leg` (rd"lg`), Red`legs` (-lgz`), n. (Zoöl.) (a) The redshank. (b) The turnstone.  RED-LETTER Red"-let`ter (-lt`tr), a.  Of or pertaining to a red letter; marked by red letters. Red- letter day, a day that is fortunate or auspicious; -- so called in allusion to the custom of marking holy days, or saints' days, in the old calendars with red letters.  RED-LIGHT DISTRICT Red-light district.  A district or neighborhood in which disorderly resorts are frequent; -- so called in allusion to the red light kept in front of many such resorts at night. [Colloq. or Cant] 

REDLY:  In a red manner; with redness. 

REDMOUTH:  Any one of several species of marine food fishes of the genus Diabasis, or Hæmulon, of the Southern United States, having the inside of the mouth bright red. Called also flannelmouth, and grunt. 

REDNESS:  The quality or state of being red; red color.  REDOLENCE; REDOLENCY Red"o*lence, Red"o*len*cy, n.  The quality of being redolent; sweetness of scent; pleasant odor; fragrance. 

REDOLENT:  Diffusing odor or fragrance; spreading sweet scent; scented; odorous; smelling; -- usually followed by of. "Honey redolent of spring." Dryden.  -- Red"o*lent*ly, adv. Gales . . . redolent of joy and youth. Gray. 

REDOUBLE:  To double again or repeatedly; to increase by continued or repeated additions; to augment greatly; to multiply. So they Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe. Shak. n. An optional bid made by the side currently holding the highest bid for the contract, after the opposing side has doubled. This bid increases the score for successfully making the contract, and increases the penalties for failing. The score or penalty depends on the number of tricks over or under the contract, according to a defined schedule, and depending on the vulnerability of the side attempting the contract. 

REDOUBLE:  To become greatly or repeatedly increased; to be multiplied; to be greatly augmented; as, the noise redoubles. 

REDOUBT:  To stand in dread of; to regard with fear; to dread. [R.] 

REDOUBTABLE:  Formidable; dread; terrible to foes; as, a redoubtable hero; hence, valiant; -- often in contempt or burlesque. [Written also redoutable.] 

REDOUBTED:  Formidable; dread. "Some redoubled knight." Spenser. Lord regent, and redoubted Burgandy. Shak. 

REDOUBTING:  Reverence; honor. [Obs.] In redoutyng of Mars and of his glory. Chaucer. 

REDOWA:  A Bohemian dance of two kinds, one in triple time, like a waltz, the other in two-four time, like a polka. The former is most in use. 

REDPOLE:  Same as Redpoll. 

REDRAFT:  To draft or draw anew. 

REDRAFT:  A new bill of exchange which the holder of a protected bill draws on the drawer or indorsers, in order to recover the amount of the protested bill with costs and charges. 

REDRAW:  To draw again; to make a second draft or copy of; to redraft. 

REDRAW:  To draw a new bill of exchange, as the holder of a protested bill, on the drawer or indorsers. 

REDRESS:  To dress again. 

REDRESSAL:  Redress. 

REDRESSER:  One who redresses. 

REDRESSIBLE:  Such as may be redressed. 

REDRESSIVE:  Tending to redress. Thomson. 

REDRESSLESS:  Not having redress; such as can not be redressed; irremediable. Sherwood. 

REDRESSMENT:  The act of redressing; redress. Jefferson.  RED-RIBAND Red"-rib`and (rd"rb`and), n. (Zoöl.)  The European red band fish, or fireflame. See Rend fish. 

REDROOT:  A name of several plants having red roots, as the New Jersey tea (see under Tea), the gromwell, the bloodroot, and the Lachnanthes tinctoria, an endogenous plant found in sandy swamps from Rhode Island to Florida. 

REDSEAR:  To be brittle when red-hot; to be red-short. Moxon. 

REDSHANK:  Hot-short; brittle when red-hot; -- said of certain kinds of iron.  -- Red"-short`ness, n. 

REDSKIN:  A common appellation for a North American Indian; -- so called from the color of the skin. Cooper. 

REDTAIL:  Having a red tail. Red-tailed hawk (Zoöl.), a large North American hawk (Buteo borealis). When adult its tail is chestnut red. Called also hen hawck, and red-tailed buzzard.  RED-TAPE Red"-tape` (-tp`), a.  Pertaining to, or characterized by, official formality. See Red tape, under Red, a.  RED-TAPISM Red`-tap"ism (rd`tp"z'm), n.  Strict adherence to official formalities. J. C. Shairp.  RED-TAPIST Red`-tap"ist, n.  One who is tenacious of a strict adherence to official formalities. Ld. Lytton. 

REDTHROAT:  A small Australian singing bird (Phyrrholæmus brunneus). The upper parts are brown, the center of the throat red. 

REDTOP:  A kind of grass (Agrostis vulgaris) highly valued in the United States for pasturage and hay for cattle; -- called also English grass, and in some localities herd's grass. See Illustration in Appendix. The tall redtop is Triodia seslerioides. 

REDUB:  To refit; to repair, or make reparation for; hence, to repay or requite. [Obs.] It shall be good that you redub that negligence. Wyatt. God shall give power to redub it with some like requital to the French. Grafton. 

REDUCE:  To bring to the metallic state by separating from impurities; hence, in general, to remove oxygen from; to deoxidize; to combine with, or to subject to the action of, hydrogen; as, ferric iron is reduced to ferrous iron; or metals are reduced from their ores; -- opposed to Ant: oxidize.  8. (Med.)  To restore to its proper place or condition, as a displaced organ or part; as, to reduce a dislocation, a fracture, or a hernia. Reduced iron (Chem.), metallic iron obtained through deoxidation of an oxide of iron by exposure to a current of hydrogen or other reducing agent. When hydrogen is used the product is called also iron by hydrogen.  -- To reduce an equation (Alg.), to bring the unknown quantity by itself on one side, and all the known quantities on the other side, without destroying the equation.  -- To reduce an expression (Alg.), to obtain an equivalent expression of simpler form.  -- To reduce a square (Mil.), to reform the line or column from the square.  Syn.  -- To diminish; lessen; decrease; abate; shorten; curtail; impair; lower; subject; subdue; subjugate; conquer. 

REDUCEMENT:  Reduction. Milton. 

REDUCENT:  Tending to reduce.  -- n.  A reducent agent. 

REDUCER:  One who, or that which, reduces. 

REDUCIBLE:  Capable of being reduced. 

REDUCIBLENESS:  Quality of being reducible. 

REDUCING:  a & n. from Reduce. Reducing furnace (Metal.), a furnace for reducing ores.  -- Reducing pipe fitting, a pipe fitting, as a coupling, an elbow, a tee, etc., for connecting a large pipe with a smaller one.  -- Reducing valve, a device for automatically maintaining a diminished pressure of steam, air, gas, etc., in a pipe, or other receiver, which is fed from a boiler or pipe in which the pressure is higher than is desired in the receiver. 

REDUCT:  To reduce. [Obs.] W. Warde. 

REDUCTIBILITY:  The quality of being reducible; reducibleness. 

REDUCTION:  The act or process of reducing. See Reduce, v. t., 6. and To reduce an equation, To reduce an expression, under Reduce, v. t.  3. (Astron.) (a) The correction of observations for known errors of instruments, etc. (b) The preparation of the facts and measurements of observations in order to deduce a general result.  4. The process of making a copy of something, as a figure, design, or draught, on a smaller scale, preserving the proper proportions. Fairholt.  5. (Logic)  The bringing of a syllogism in one of the so-called imperfect modes into a mode in the first figure.  6. (Chem. & Metal.)  The act, process, or result of reducing; as, the reduction of iron from its ores; the reduction of aldehyde from alcohol.  7. (Med.)  The operation of restoring a dislocated or fractured part to its former place. Reduction ascending (Arith.), the operation of changing numbers of a lower into others of a higher denomination, as cents to dollars.  -- Reduction descending (Arith.), the operation of changing numbers of a higher into others of a lower denomination, as dollars to cents.  Syn.  -- Diminution; decrease; abatement; curtailment; subjugation; conquest; subjection. 

REDUCTIVE:  Tending to reduce; having the power or effect of reducing.  -- n.  A reductive agent. Sir M. Hale. 

REDUCTIVELY:  By reduction; by consequence. 

REDUIT:  A central or retired work within any other work.  REDUNDANCE; REDUNDANCY Re*dun"dance, Re*dun"dan*cy, n. Etym: [L. redundantia: cf. F. redondance.]  1. The quality or state of being redundant; superfluity; superabundance; excess.  2. That which is redundant or in excess; anything superfluous or superabundant. Labor . . . throws off redundacies. Addison.  3. (Law)  Surplusage inserted in a pleading which may be rejected by the court without impairing the validity of what remains. 

REDUNDANTLY:  In a refundant manner. 

REDUPLICATE:  Valvate with the margins curved outwardly; -- said of the 

REDUPLICATE:  To repeat the first letter or letters of (a word). See Reduplication,3. 

REDUPLICATION:  The doubling of a stem or syllable (more or less modified), with the effect of changing the time expressed, intensifying the meaning, or making the word more imitative; also, the syllable thus added; as, L. tetuli; poposci. 

REDUPLICATIVE:  Double; formed by reduplication; reduplicate. I. Watts. 

REDUVID:  Any hemipterous insect of the genus Redivius, or family Reduvidæ. They live by sucking the blood of other insects, and some species also attack man. 

REDWEED:  The red poppy (Papaver Rhoeas). Dr. Prior. 

REDWING:  A European thrush (Turdus iliacus). Its under wing coverts are orange red. Called also redwinged thrush. (b) A North American passerine bird (Agelarius phoeniceus) of the family Icteridæ. The male is black, with a conspicuous patch of bright red, bordered with orange, on each wing. Called also redwinged blackbird, red-winged troupial, marsh blackbird, and swamp blackbird. 

REDWITHE:  A west Indian climbing shrub (Combretum Jacquini) with slender reddish branchlets. 

REE:  See Rei. 

REE:  To riddle; to sift; to separate or throw off. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Mortimer. 

REEBOK:  The peele. [Written also rehboc and rheeboc.]  REECHO; RE-ECHO Re*ech"o, v. t.  To echo back; to reverberate again; as, the hills reëcho the roar of cannon. 

REECHO:  To give echoes; to return back, or be reverberated, as an echo; to resound; to be resonant. And a loud groan reëchoes from the main. Pope. 

REECHO:  The echo of an echo; a repeated or second echo. 

REECHY:  Smoky; reeky; hence, begrimed with dirt. [Obs.] 

REED:  Red. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REED:  Same as Rede. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REED:  The fourth stomach of a ruminant; rennet. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.] 

REED:  A name given to many tall and coarse grasses or grasslike plants, and their slender, often jointed, stems, such as the various kinds of bamboo, and especially the common reed of Europe and North America (Phragmites communis).  2. A musical instrument made of the hollow joint of some plant; a rustic or pastoral pipe. Arcadian pipe, the pastoral reed Of Hermes. Milton.  3. An arrow, as made of a reed. Prior.  4. Straw prepared for thatching a roof. [Prov. Eng.]  5. (Mus.) (a) A small piece of cane or wood attached to the mouthpiece of certain instruments, and set in vibration by the breath. In the clarinet it is a single fiat reed; in the oboe and bassoon it is double, forming a compressed tube. (b) One of the thin pieces of metal, the vibration of which produce the tones of a melodeon, accordeon, harmonium, or seraphine; also attached to certain sets or registers of pipes in an organ.  6. (Weaving)  A frame having parallel flat stripe of metal or reed, between which the warp threads pass, set in the swinging lathe or batten of a loom for beating up the weft; a sley. See Batten.  7. (Mining)  A tube containing the train of powder for igniting the charge in blasting.  8. (Arch.)  Same as Reeding. Egyptian reed (Bot.), the papyrus.  -- Free reed (Mus.), a reed whose edges do not overlap the wind passage, -- used in the harmonium, concertina, etc. It is distinguished from the beating or striking reed of the organ and clarinet.  -- Meadow reed grass (Bot.), the Glyceria aquatica, a tall grass found in wet places.  -- Reed babbler. See Reedbird.  -- Reed bunting (Zoöl.) A European sparrow (Emberiza schoeniclus) which frequents marshy places; -- called also reed sparrow, ring bunting. (b) Reedling.  -- Reed canary grass (Bot.), a tall wild grass (Phalaris arundinacea).  -- Reed grass. (Bot.) (a) The common reed. See Reed, 1. (b) A plant of the genus Sparganium; bur reed. See under Bur.  -- Reed organ (Mus.), an organ in which the wind acts on a set of free reeds, as the harmonium, melodeon, concertina, etc.  -- Reed pipe (Mus.), a pipe of an organ furnished with a reed.  -- Reed sparrow. (Zoöl.) See Reed bunting, above.  -- Reed stop (Mus.), a set of pipes in an organ furnished with reeds.  -- Reed warbler. (Zoöl.) (a) A small European warbler (Acrocephalus streperus); -- called also reed wren. (b) Any one of several species of Indian and Australian warblers of the genera Acrocephalus, Calamoherpe, and Arundinax. They are excellent singers.  -- Sea-sand reed (Bot.), a kind of coarse grass (Ammophila arundinacea). See Beach grass, under Beach.  -- Wood reed grass (Bot.), a tall, elegant grass (Cinna arundinacea), common in moist woods. 

REEDBUCK:  See Rietboc. 

REEDEN:  Consisting of a reed or reeds. Through reeden pipes convey the golden flood. Dryden. 

REEDIFICATION:  The act reëdifying; the state of being reëdified. 

REEDIFY:  To edify anew; to build again after destruction. [R.] Milton. 

REEDING:  A small convex molding; a reed (see Illust. (i) of Molding); one of several set close together to decorate a surface; also, decoration by means of reedings; -- the reverse of fluting.  Note: Several reedings are often placed together, parallel to each other, either projecting from, or inserted into, the adjining surface. The decoration so produced is then called, in general, reeding.  2. The nurling on the edge of a coin; -- commonly called milling. 

REEDLESS:  Destitute of reeds; as, reedless banks. 

REEDLING:  The European bearded titmouse (Panurus biarmicus); -- called also reed bunting, bearded pinnock, and lesser butcher bird.  Note: It is orange brown, marked with black, white, and yellow on the wings. The male has a tuft of black feathers on each side of the face.  REED-MACE Reed"-mace` (-ms`), n. (Bot.)  The cat-tail. 

REEDWORK:  A collective name for the reed stops of an organ. 

REEF:  A large vein of auriferous quartz; -- so called in Australia. Hence, any body of rock yielding valuable ore. Reef builder (Zoöl.), any stony coral which contributes material to the formation of coral reefs.  -- Reef heron (Zoöl.), any heron of the genus Demigretta; as, the blue reef heron (D.jugularis) of Australia. 

REEF:  That part of a sail which is taken in or let out by means of the reef points, in order to adapt the size of the sail to the force of the wind.  Note: From the head to the first reef-band, in square sails, is termed the first reef; from this to the next is the second reef; and so on. In fore-and-aft sails, which reef on the foot, the first reef is the lowest part. Totten. Close reef, the last reef that can be put in.  -- Reef band. See Reef-band in the Vocabulary.  -- Reef knot, the knot which is used in tying reef pointss. See Illust. under Knot.  -- Reef line, a small rope formerly used to reef the courses by being passed spirally round the yard and through the holes of the reef. Totten.  -- Reef pioints, pieces of small rope passing through the eyelet holes of a reef-band, and used reefing the sail.  -- Reef tackle, a tackle by which the reef cringles, or rings, of a sail are hauled up to the yard for reefing. Totten.  -- To take a reef in, to reduce the size of (a sail) by folding or rolling up a reef, and lashing it to the spar. 

REEF:  To reduce the extent of (as a sail) by roiling or folding a certain portion of it and making it fast to the yard or spar. Totten. To reef the paddles, to move the floats of a paddle wheel toward its center so that they will not dip so deeply.  REEF-BAND Reef"-band` (rf"bnd`), n. (Naut.)  A piece of canvas sewed across a sail to strengthen it in the part where the eyelet holes for reefing are made. Totten. 

REEFER:  One who reefs; -- a name often given to midshipmen. Marryat.  2. A close-fitting lacket or short coat of thick cloth. 

REEFING:  The process of taking in a reef. Reefing bowsprit, a bowsprit so rigged that it can easily be run in or shortened by sliding inboard, as in cutters. 

REEFY:  Full of reefs or rocks. 

REEK:  A rick. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

REEK:  Vapor; steam; smoke; fume. As hateful to me as the reek of a limekiln. Shak. 

REEK:  To emit vapor, usually that which is warm and moist; to be full of fumes; to steam; to smoke; to exhale. Few chimneys reeking you shall espy. Spenser. I found me laid In balmy sweat, which with his beams the sun Soon dried, and on the reeking moisture fed. Milton. The coffee rooms reeked with tobacco. Macualay. 

REEL:  A lively dance of the Highlanders of Scotland; also, the music to the dance; -- often called Scotch reel. Virginia reel, the common name throughout the United States for the old English "country dance," or contradance (contredanse). Bartlett. 

REEL:  A device consisting of radial arms with horizontal stats, connected with a harvesting machine, for holding the stalks of grain in position to be cut by the knives. Reel oven, a baker's oven in which bread pans hang suspended from the arms of a kind of reel revolving on a horizontal axis. Knight. 

REEL:  The act or motion of reeling or staggering; as, a drunken reel. Shak. 

REELECT:  To elect again; as, to reëlect the former governor. 

REELECTION:  Election a second time, or anew; as, the reëlection of a former chief. 

REELER:  The grasshopper warbler; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] 

REELIGIBLE:  Eligble again; capable of reëlection; as, reëligible to the same office.  -- Re*ël`i*gi*bil"i*ty (r, n. 

REEM:  The Hebrew name of a horned wild animal, probably the Urus.  Note: In King James's Version it is called unicorn; in the Revised Version,wild ox. Job xxxix. 9. 

REEM:  To open (the seams of a vessel's planking) for the purpose of calking them. Reeming iron (Naut.), an iron chisel for reeming the seams of planks in calking ships. 

REEMBARK:  To put, or go, on board a vessel again; to embark again. 

REEMBARKATION:  A putting, or going, on board a vessel again. 

REEMBODY:  To embody again. 

REEMBRACE:  To embrace again. 

REEMERGE:  To emerge again. 

REEMERGENCE:  Act of re 

REENACT:  To enact again. 

REENACTION:  The act of re 

REENACTMENT:  The enacting or passing of a law a second time; the renewal of a law. 

REENCOURAGE:  To encourage again. 

REENDOW:  To endow again. 

REENFORCE:  To strengthen with new force, assistance, material, or support; as, to reënforce an argument; to reënforce a garment; especially, to strengthen with additional troops, as an army or a fort, or with additional ships, as a fleet. [Written also reinforce.] 

REENFORCE:  Something which reënforces or strengthens. Specifically: (a) That part of a cannon near the breech which is thicker than the rest of the piece, so as better to resist the force of the exploding powder. See Illust. of Cannon. (b) An additional thickness of canvas, cloth, or the like, around an eyelet, buttonhole, etc.  REENFORCED CONCRETE Reënforced concrete.  Concrete having within its mass a system of strengthening iron or steel supports. = Ferro-concrete. 

REENGAGE:  To engage a second time or again. 

REENGAGEMENT:  A renewed or repeated engagement. 

REENGRAVE:  To engrave anew. 

REENJOY:  To enjoi anew. Pope. 

REENJOYMENT:  Renewed enjoiment. 

REENKINDLE:  To enkindle again. 

REENLIST:  To enlist again. 

REENLISTMENT:  A renewed enlistment. 

REENSLAVE:  To enslave again. 

REENTER:  To cut deeper, as engraved lines on a plate of metal, when the engraving has not been deep enough, or the plate has become worn in printing. 

REENTER:  To enter anew or again. Reëntering angle, an angle of a polygon pointing inward, as a, in the cut.  -- Reëntering polygon, a polygon having one or more reëntering angles. 

REENTERING:  The process of applying additional colors, by applications of printing blocks, to patterns already partly colored. 

REENTHRONE:  To enthrone again; to replace on a throne. 

REENTHRONEMENT:  A second enthroning. 

REENTRANCE:  The act entereing again; re Hooker. 

REENTRANT:  Reëntering; pointing or directed inwardds; as, a re angle. 

REENTRY:  A resuming or retaking possession of what one has lately foregone; -- applied especially to land; the entry by a lessor upon the premises leased, on failure of the tenant to pay rent or perform the covenants in the lease. Burrill. Card of reëtry, (Whist), a card that by winning a trick will bring one the lead at an advanced period of the hand. 

REERECT:  To erect again. 

REERMOUSE:  See Rearmouse. 

REESTABLISH:  To establish anew; to fix or confirm again; to restore; as, to reëstablish a covenant; to reëstablish health. 

REESTABLISHER:  One who establishes again. 

REESTABLISHMENT:  The act reëstablishing; the state of being reëstablished. Addison. 

REESTATE:  To reëstablish. [Obs.] Walis. 

REEVE:  The female of the ruff. 

REEVE:  To pass, as the end of a pope, through any hole in a block, thimble, cleat, ringbolt, cringle, or the like. 

REEVE:  an officer, steward, bailiff, or governor; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, shirereeve, now written sheriff; portreeve, etc. Chaucer. Piers Plowman. 

REEXAMINABLE:  Admitting of being reëxamined or reconsidered. Story. 

REEXAMINATION:  A repeated examination. See under Examination. 

REEXAMINE:  To examine anew. Hooker. 

REEXCHANGE:  To exchange anew; to reverse (a previous exchange). 

REEXCHANGE:  The expense chargeable on a bill of exchange or draft which has been dishonored in a foreign country, and returned to the country in which it was made or indorsed, and then taken up. Bouvier. The rate of reëxchange is regulated with respect to the drawer, at the course of exchange between the place where the bill of exchange was payable, and the place where it was drawn. Reëxchange can not be cumulated. Walsh. 

REEXHIBIT:  To exhibit again. 

REEXPEL:  To expel again. 

REEXPERIENCE:  A renewed or repeated experience. 

REEXPORT:  To export again, as what has been imported. 

REEXPORT:  Any commodity reëxported; -- chiefly in the ptural. 

REEXPORTATION:  The act of reëxporting, or of exporting an import. A. Smith. 

REEXPULSION:  Renewed or repeated expulsion. Fuller. 

REEXPULSION:  Renewed or repeated expulsion. Fuller. 

REEZED:  Grown rank; rancid; rusty. [Obs.] "Reezed bacon." Marston. 

REFACTION:  Recompense; atonemet; retribution. [Obs.] Howell. 

REFAIT:  A drawn game; specif. (Trente et quarante),  a state of the game in which the aggregate pip value of cards dealt to red equals that of those dealt to black. All bets are then off; unless the value is 31, in which case the banker wins half the stakes. 

REFAR:  To go over again; to repeat. [Obs.] To him therefore this wonder done refar. Fairfax. 

REFASHION:  To fashion anew; to form or mold into shape a second time. MacKnight. 

REFASHIONMENT:  The act of refashioning, or the state of being refashioned. [R.] Leigh Hunt. 

REFASTEN:  To fasten again. 

REFECT:  To restore after hunger or fatique; to refresh. [Archaic] Sir T. Browne. 

REFECTION:  Refreshment after hunger or fatique; a repast; a lunch. [His] feeble spirit inly felt refection. Spenser. Those Attic nights, and those refections of the gods. Curran. 

REFECTIVE:  Refreshing; restoring. 

REFECTIVE:  That which refreshes. 

REFECTORY:  A room for refreshment; originally, a dining hall in monasteries or convents.  Note: Sometimes pronounced r, especially when signifying the eating room in monasteries. 

REFEL:  To refute; to disprove; as, to refel the tricks of a sophister. [Obs.] How he refelled me, and how I replied. Shak. 

REFERABLE:  Capable of being referred, or considered in relation to something else; assignable; ascribable. [Written also referrible.] It is a question among philosophers, whether all the attractions which obtain between bodies are referable to one general cause. W. Nicholson. 

REFEREE:  One to whom a thing is referred; a person to whom a matter in dispute has been referred, in order that he may settle it.  Syn.  -- Judge; arbitrator; umpire. See Judge. 

REFERENCE:  The process of sending any matter, for inquiry in a cause, to a master or other officer, in order that he may ascertain facts and report to the court.  6. Appeal. [R.] "Make your full reference." Shak. Reference Bible, a Bible in which brief explanations, and references to parallel passages, are printed in the margin of the text. 

REFERENTIAL:  Containing a reference; pointing to something out of itself; as, notes for referential use.  -- Ref`er*en"tial*ly, adv. 

REFERMENT:  The act of referring; reference. Laud. 

REFERMENT:  To ferment, or cause to ferment, again. Blackmore.  RE-FERMENT Re`-fer*ment" (r`fr*mnt"), v. t. & i.  To ferment, or cause to ferment, again. Blackmore. 

REFERRER:  One who refers. 

REFERRIBLE:  Referable. Hallam. 

REFIGURE:  To figure again. Shak. 

REFILL:  To fill, or become full, again. 

REFIND:  To find again; to get or experience again. Sandys. 

REFINED:  Freed from impurities or alloy; purifed; polished; cultured; delicate; as; refined gold; refined language; refined sentiments. Refined wits who honored poesy with their pens. Peacham. -- Re*fin"ed*ly (r, adv.  -- Re*fin"ed*ness, n. 

REFINER:  One who, or that which, refines. 

REFIT:  To obtain repairs or supplies; as, the fleet returned to refit. 

REFITMENT:  The act of refitting, or the state of being refitted. 

REFIX:  To fix again or anew; to establish anew. Fuller. 

REFLAME:  To kindle again into flame. 

REFLECTIBLE:  Capable of being reflected, or thrown back; reflexible. 

REFLECTINGLY:  With reflection; also, with censure; reproachfully. Swift. 

REFLECTION:  The transference of an excitement from one nerve fiber to another by means of the nerve cells, as in reflex action. See Reflex action, under Reflex. Angle of reflection, the angle which anything, as a ray of light, on leaving a reflecting surface, makes with the perpendicular to the surface.  -- Angle of total reflection. (Opt.) Same as Critical angle, under Critical.  Syn.  -- Meditation; contemplation; rumination; cogitation; consideration; musing; thinking. 

REFLECTIVE:  Reflexive; reciprocal.  -- Re*flect"ive*ly, adv.  -- Re*flect"ive*ness, n. "Reflectiveness of manner." J. C. Shairp. 

REFLET:  Luster; special brilliancy of surface; -- used esp. in ceramics to denote the peculiar metallic brilliancy seen in lustered pottery such as majolica; as, silver reflet; gold reflet. 

REFLEX:  Of, pertaining to, or produced by, stimulus or excitation without the necessary intervention of consciousness. Reflex action (Physiol.), any action performed involuntarily in consequence of an impulse or impression transmitted along afferent nerves to a nerve center, from which it is reflected to an efferent nerve, and so calls into action certain muscles, organs, or cells.  -- Reflex nerve (Physiol.), an excito-motory nerve. See Exito- motory. 

REFLEX:  An involuntary movement produced by reflex action. Patellar reflex. See Knee jerk, under Knee. 

REFLEXED:  Bent backward or outward. 

REFLEXIBILITY:  The quality or capability of being reflexible; as, the reflexibility of the rays of light. Sir I. Newton. 

REFLEXIBLE:  Capable of being reflected, or thrown back. The light of the sun consists of rays differently refrangible and reflexible. Cheyne. 

REFLEXION:  See Reflection. Chaucer. 

REFLEXITY:  The state or condition of being reflected. [R.] 

REFLEXIVE:  Bending or turned backward; reflective; having respect to something past. Assurance reflexive can not be a divine faith. Hammond.  2. Implying censure. [Obs.] "What man does not resent an ugly reflexive word" South.  3. (Gram.)  Having for its direct object a pronoun which refers to the agent or subject as its antecedent; -- said of certain verbs; as, the witness perjured himself; I bethought myself. Applied also to pronouns of this class; reciprocal; reflective.  -- Re*flex"ive*ly, adv.  -- Re*flex"ive*ness, n. 

REFLEXIVE:  In a reflex manner; reflectively. 

REFLEXLY:  In a reflex manner; reflectively. 

REFLOAT:  Reflux; ebb. [Obs.] Bacon. 

REFLORESCENCE:  A blossoming anew of a plant after it has apparently ceased blossoming for the season. 

REFLOURISH:  To flourish again. 

REFLOW:  To flow back; to ebb. 

REFLOWER:  To flower, or cause to flower, again. Sylvester. 

REFLUCTUATION:  A flowing back; refluence.  REFLUENCE; REFLUENCY Ref"lu*ence, Ref"lu*en*cy, n.  The quality of being refluent; a flowing back. 

REFLUENT:  Flowing back; returning; ebbing. Cowper. And refluent through the pass of fear The battle's tide was poured. Sir W. Scott. 

REFLUEUS:  Refluent. [Obs.] 

REFLUX:  Returning, or flowing back; reflex; as, reflux action. 

REFLUX:  A flowing back, as the return of a fluid; ebb; reaction; as, the flux and reflux of the tides. All from me Shall with a fierce reflux on me redound. Milton. 

REFOCILLATE:  To refresh; to revive. [Obs.] Aubrey. 

REFOCILLATION:  Restoration of strength by refreshment. [Obs.] Middleton. 

REFOLD:  To fold again. 

REFOMENT:  To foment anew. 

REFOREST:  To replant with trees; to reafforest; to reforestize. 

REFORESTIZATION:  The act or process of reforestizing. 

REFORESTIZE:  To convert again into a forest; to plant again with trees. 

REFORGE:  To forge again or anew; hence, to fashion or fabricate anew; to make over. Udall. 

REFORGER:  One who reforges. 

REFORM:  To put into a new and improved form or condition; to restore to a former good state, or bring from bad to good; to change from worse to better; to amend; to correct; as, to reform a profligate man; to reform corrupt manners or morals. The example alone of a vicious prince will corrupt an age; but that of a good one will not reform it. Swift.  Syn.  -- To amend; correct; emend; rectify; mend; repair; better; improve; restore; reclaim. 

REFORM:  To return to a good state; to amend or correct one's own character or habits; as, a man of settled habits of vice will seldom reform. 

REFORM:  Amendment of what is defective, vicious, corrupt, or depraved; reformation; as, reform of elections; reform of government. Civil service reform. See under Civil.  -- Reform acts (Eng. Politics), acts of Parliament passed in 1832, 1867, 1884, 1885, extending and equalizing popular representation in Parliament.  -- Reform school, a school established by a state or city government, for the confinement, instruction, and reformation of juvenile offenders, and of young persons of idle, vicious, and vagrant habits. [U. S.]  Syn.  -- Reformation; amendment; rectification; correction. See Reformation.  RE-FORM Re-form" (r*frm"), v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Re-formed (-frmd"); p. pr. & vb. n. Re-forming.]  To give a new form to; to form anew; to take form again, or to take a new form; as, to re-form the line after a charge. 

REFORMABLE:  Capable of being reformed. Foxe. 

REFORMADE:  A reformado. [Obs.] 

REFORMALIZE:  To affect reformation; to pretend to correctness. [R.] 

REFORMATION:  The act of forming anew; a second forming in order; as, the reformation of a column of troops into a hollow square. 

REFORMATIVE:  Forming again; having the quality of renewing form; reformatory. Good. 

REFORMATORY:  Tending to produce reformation; reformative. 

REFORMATORY:  An institution for promoting the reformation of offenders. Magistrates may send juvenile offenders to reformatories instead of to prisons. Eng. Cyc. 

REFORMED:  Retained in service on half or full pay after the disbandment of the company or troop; -- said of an officer. [Eng.] 

REFORMER:  One of those who commenced the reformation of religion in the sixteenth century, as Luther, Melanchthon, Zwingli, and Calvin. 

REFORMIST:  A reformer. 

REFORMLY:  In the manner of a reform; for the purpose of reform. [Obs.] Milton. 

REFORTIFICATION:  A fortifying anew, or a second time. Mitford. 

REFORTIFY:  To fortify anew. 

REFOSSION:  The act of digging up again. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

REFOUND:  imp. & p. p. of Refind, v. t. 

REFOUNDER:  One who refounds. 

REFRACTABLE:  Capable of being refracted. 

REFRACTED:  Bent backward angularly, as if half-broken; as, a refracted stem or leaf.  2. Turned from a direct course by refraction; as, refracted rays of light. 

REFRACTING:  Serving or tending to refract; as, a refracting medium. Refracting angle of a prism (Opt.), the angle of a triangular prism included between the two sides through which the refracted beam passes in the decomposition of light.  -- Refracting telescope. (Opt.) See under Telescope. 

REFRACTIVE:  Serving or having power to refract, or turn from a direct course; pertaining to refraction; as, refractive surfaces; refractive powers. Refractive index. (Opt.) See Index of refraction, under Index.  -- Absolute refractive index (Opt.), the index of refraction of a substances when the ray passes into it from a vacuum.  -- Relative refractive index (of two media) (Opt.), the ratio of the sine of the angle of incidence to the sine of the angle of refraction for a ray passing out of one of the media into the other. 

REFRACTIVENESS:  The quality or condition of being refractive. 

REFRACTOMETER:  A contrivance for exhibiting and measuring the refraction of light. 

REFRACTOR:  Anything that refracts; specifically: (Opt.)  A refracting telescope, in which the image to be viewed is formed by the refraction of light in passing through a convex lens. 

REFRACTORILY:  In a refractory manner; perversely; obstinately. 

REFRACTORINESS:  The quality or condition of being refractory. 

REFRACTURE:  A second breaking (as of a badly set bone) by the surgeon. 

REFRACTURE:  To break again, as a bone. 

REFRAGABLE:  Capable of being refuted; refutable. [R.] -- Ref"ra*ga*ble*ness, n. [R.] -- Ref`*ra*ga*bil"i*ty (-b, n. [R.] 

REFRAGATE:  To oppose. [R.] Glanvill. 

REFRAIN:  To keep one's self from action or interference; to hold aloof; to forbear; to abstain. Refrain from these men, and let them alone. Acts v. 38. They refrained therefrom [eating flesh] some time after. Sir T. Browne.  Syn.  -- To hold back; forbear; abstain; withhold. 

REFRAIN:  The burden of a song; a phrase or verse which recurs at the end of each of the separate stanzas or divisions of a poetic composition. We hear the wild refrain. Whittier. 

REFRAINER:  One who refrains. 

REFRAINMENT:  Act of refraining. [R.] 

REFRAME:  To frame again or anew. 

REFRANGIBILITY:  The quality of being refrangible. 

REFRANGIBLE:  Capable of being refracted, or turned out of a direct course, in passing from one medium to another, as rays of light.  -- Re*fran"gi*ble*ness, n. 

REFRENATION:  The act of refraining. [Obs.] 

REFRESH:  The act of refreshing. [Obs.] Daniel. 

REFRESHER:  An extra fee paid to counsel in a case that has been adjourned from one term to another, or that is unusually protracted. Ten guineas a day is the highest refresher which a counsel can charge. London Truth. 

REFRESHFUL:  Full of power to refresh; refreshing.  -- Re*fresh"ful*ly, adv. 

REFRESHING:  Reviving; reanimating.  -- Re*fresh"ing*ly, adv.  -- Re*fresh"ing*ness, n. 

REFRET:  Refrain. [Obs.] Bailey. 

REFREYD:  To chill; to cool. [Obs.] Refreyded by sickness . . . or by cold drinks. Chaucer. 

REFRICATION:  A rubbing up afresh; a brightening. [Obs.] A continual refrication of the memory. Bp. Hall. 

REFRIGERANT:  Cooling; allaying heat or fever. Bacon. 

REFRIGERANT:  That which makes to be cool or cold; specifically, a medicine or an application for allaying fever, or the symptoms of fever; -- used also figuratively. Holland. "A refrigerant to passion." Blair. 

REFRIGERATE:  To cause to become cool; to make or keep cold or cool. 

REFRIGERATION:  The act or process of refrigerating or cooling, or the state of being cooled. 

REFRIGERATIVE:  Cooling; allaying heat.  -- n.  A refrigerant. Crazed brains should come under a refrigerative treatment. I. Taylor. 

REFRIGERATOR:  That which refrigerates or makes cold; that which keeps cool. Specifically: (a) A box or room for keeping food or other articles cool, usually by means of ice. (b) An apparatus for rapidly cooling heated liquids or vapors, connected with a still, etc. Refrigerator car (Railroad), a freight car constructed as a refrigerator, for the transportation of fresh meats, fish, etc., in a temperature kept cool by ice. 

REFRIGERATORY:  Mitigating heat; cooling. 

REFRIGERATORY:  That which refrigerates or cools. Specifically: (a) In distillation, a vessel filled with cold water, surrounding the worm, the vapor in which is thereby condensed. (b) The chamber, or tank, in which ice is formed, in an ice machine. 

REFRIGERIUM:  Cooling refreshment; refrigeration. [Obs.] South. 

REFRINGENCY:  The power possessed by a substance to refract a ray; as, different substances have different refringencies. Nichol. 

REFRINGENT:  Pertaining to, or possessing, refringency; refractive; refracting; as, a refringent prism of spar. Nichol. 

REFT:  Bereft. Reft of thy sons, amid thy foes forlorn. Heber. 

REFT:  A chink; a rift. See Rift. Rom. of R. 

REFUGE:  To shelter; to protect. [Obs.] 

REFUGEE:  The quality of being refulgent; brilliancy; splender; radiance. 

REFULGENT:  Casting a bright light; radiant; brilliant; resplendent; shining; splendid; as, refulgent beams.  -- Re*ful"gent*ly, adv. So conspicuous and refulgent a truth. Boyle. 

REFUND:  To fund again or anew; to replace (a fund or loan) by a new fund; as, to refund a railroad loan. 

REFUNDER:  One who refunds. 

REFUNDMENT:  The act of refunding; also, that which is refunded. [R.] Lamb. 

REFURBISH:  To furbish anew. 

REFURNISH:  To furnish again. 

REFURNISHMENT:  The act of refurnishing, or state of being refurnished. The refurnishment was in a style richer than before. L. Wallace. 

REFUSABLE:  Capable of being refused; admitting of refusal. 

REFUSE:  To throw back, or cause to keep back (as the center, a wing, or a flank), out of the regular aligment when troops aras, to refuse the right wing while the left wing attacks.  3. To decline to accept; to reject; to deny the request or petition of; as, to refuse a suitor. The cunning workman never doth refuse The meanest tool that he may chance to use. Herbert.  4. To disown. [Obs.] "Refuse thy name." Shak. 

REFUSE:  To deny compliance; not to comply. Too proud to ask, too humble to refuse. Garth. If ye refuse . . . ye shall be devoured with the sword. Isa. i. 20. 

REFUSE:  Refusal. [Obs.] Fairfax. 

REFUSE:  That which is refused or rejected as useless; waste or worthless matter.  Syn.  -- Dregs; sediment; scum; recrement; dross. 

REFUSE:  Refused; rejected; hence; left as unworthy of acceptance; of no value; worthless. Everything that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly. 1. Sam. xv. 9. 

REFUSER:  One who refuses or rejects. 

REFUT:  Refuge. "Thou haven of refut." [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REFUTABILITY:  The quality of being refutable. 

REFUTABLE:  Admitting of being refuted or disproved; capable of being proved false or erroneous. 

REFUTAL:  Act of refuting; refutation. 

REFUTATION:  The act or process of refuting or disproving, or the state of being refuted; proof of falsehood or error; the overthrowing of an argument, opinion, testimony, doctrine, or theory, by argument or countervailing proof. Same of his blunders seem rather to deserve a flogging than a refutation. Macaulay. 

REFUTATORY:  Tending tu refute; refuting. 

REFUTE:  To disprove and overthrow by argument, evidence, or countervailing proof; to prove to be false or erroneous; to confute; as, to refute arguments; to refute testimony; to refute opinions or theories; to refute a disputant. There were so many witnesses in these two miracles that it is impossible to refute such multitudes. Addison.  Syn.  -- To confute; disprove. See Confute. 

REFUTER:  One who, or that which, refutes. 

REGAIN:  To gain anew; to get again; to recover, as what has escaped or been lost; to reach again.  Syn.  -- To recover; reobtain; repossess; retrieve. 

REGAL:  Of or pertaining to a king; kingly; royal; as, regal authority, pomp, or sway. "The regal title." Shak. He made a scorn of his regal oath. Milton.  Syn.  -- Kingly; royal. See Kingly. 

REGAL:  A small portable organ, played with one hand, the bellows being worked with the other, -- used in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. 

REGALE:  A prerogative of royalty. [R.] Johnson. 

REGALE:  To enertaas, to regale the taste, the eye, or the ear. 

REGALE:  To feast; t 

REGALE:  A sumptuous repast; a banquet. Johnson. Cowper. Two baked custards were produced as additions to the regale. E. E. Hale. 

REGALEMENT:  The act of regaling; anything which regales; refreshment; entertainment. 

REGALER:  One who regales. 

REGALIA:  A kind of cigar of large size and superior quality; also, the size in which such cigars are classed. 

REGALIAN:  Pertaining to regalia; pertaining to the royal insignia or prerogatives. Hallam. 

REGALISM:  The doctrine of royal prerogative or supremacy. [R.] Cardinal Manning. 

REGALLY:  In a regal or royal manner. 

REGARD:  To look attentively; to consider; to notice. [Obs.] Shak. 

REGARD:  Supervision; inspection. At regard of, in consideration of; in comparison with. [Obs.] "Bodily penance is but short and little at regard of the pains of hell." Chaucer.  -- Court of regard, a forest court formerly held in England every third year for the lawing, or expeditation, of dogs, to prevent them from running after deer; -- called also survey of dogs. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- Respect; consideration; notice; observance; heed; care; concern; estimation; esteem; attachment; reverence. 

REGARDABLE:  Worthy of regard or notice; to be regarded; observable. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

REGARDANT:  Looking behind or backward; as, a lion regardant.  3. (O.Eng.Law)  Annexed to the land or manor; as, a villain regardant. 

REGARDER:  An officer appointed to supervise the forest. Cowell. 

REGARDFUL:  Heedful; attentive; observant.  -- Re*gard"ful*ly, adv. Let a man be very tender and regardful of every pious motion made by the Spirit of God to his heart. South.  Syn.  -- Mindful; heedful; attentive; observant. 

REGARDING:  Concerning; respecting. 

REGATHER:  To gather again. 

REGATTA:  Originally, a gondola race in Venice; now, a rowing or sailing race, or a series of such races. 

REGEL:  See Rigel. 

REGELATE:  To freeze together again; to undergo regelation, as ice. 

REGELATION:  The act or process of freezing anew, or together,as two pieces of ice.  Note: Two pieces of ice at (or even) 32regelation. Faraday. 

REGENCE:  Rule. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

REGENERACY:  The state of being regenerated. Hammond. 

REGENERATE:  Born anew; become Christian; renovated in heart; changed from a natural to a spiritual state. 

REGENERATE:  To cause to be spiritually born anew; to cause to become a Christian; to convert from sin to holiness; to implant holy affections in the heart of.  3. Hence, to make a radical change for the better in the character or condition of; as, to regenerate society. 

REGENERATENESS:  The quality or state of being rgenerate. 

REGENERATION:  The entering into a new spiritual life; the act of becoming, or of being made, Christian; that change by which holy affectations and purposes are substituted for the opposite motives in the heart. He saved us by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Chost. Tit. iii. 5.  3. (Biol.)  The reproduction of a part which has been removed or destroyed; re-formation; -- a process especially characteristic of a many of the lower animals; as, the regeneration of lost feelers, limbs, and claws by spiders and crabs.  4. (Physiol.) (a) The reproduction or renewal of tissues, cells, etc., which have been used up and destroyed by the ordinary processes of life; as, the continual regeneration of the epithelial cells of the body, or the regeneration of the contractile substance of muscle. (b) The union of parts which have been severed, so that they become anatomically perfect; as, the regeneration of a nerve. 

REGENERATIVE:  Of or pertaining to regeneration; tending to regenerate; as, regenerative influences. H. Bushnell. Regenerative furnace (Metal.), a furnace having a regenerator in which gas used for fuel, and air for supporting combustion, are heated; a Siemens furnace. 

REGENERATIVELY:  So as to regenerate. 

REGENERATOR:  A device used in connection with hot-air engines, gas-burning furnaces, etc., in which the incoming air or gas is heated by being brought into contact with masses of iron, brick, etc., which have been previously heated by the outgoing, or escaping, hot air or gas. 

REGENERATORY:  Having power to renew; tending to reproduce; regenerating. G. S. Faber. 

REGENESIS:  New birth; renewal. A continued regenesis of dissenting sects. H. Spenser. 

REGENT:  A resident master of arts of less than five years' standing, or a doctor of less than twwo. They were formerly privileged to lecture in the schools. Regent bird (Zoöl.), a beautiful Australian bower bird (Sericulus melinus). The male has the head, neck, and large patches on the wings, bright golden yellow, and the rest of the plumage deep velvety black; -- so called in honor of the Prince of Wales (afterward George IV.), who was Prince Regent in the reign of George III.  -- The Regents of the University of the State of New York, the members of a corporate body called the University of New York. They have a certain supervisory power over the incorporated institution for Academic and higher education in the State.  REGENT DIAMOND Re"gent di"a*mond.  A famous diamond of fine quality, which weighs about 137 carats and is among the state jewels of France. It is so called from the Duke of Orleans, Regent of France, to whom it was sold in 1717 by Pitt the English Governor of Madras (whence also called the Pitt diamond), who bought it of an Indian merchant in 1701. 

REGENTESS:  A female regent. [R.] Cotgrave. 

REGENTSHIP:  The office of a regent; regency. 

REGERMINATE:  To germinate again. Perennial plants regerminate several years successively. J. Lee. 

REGERMINATION:  A germinating again or anew. 

REGEST:  A register. [Obs.] Milton. 

REGET:  To get again. 

REGIAN:  An upholder of kingly authority; a royalist. [Obs.] Fuller. 

REGIBLE:  Governable; tractable. [Obs.] 

REGICIDAL:  Pertaining to regicide, or to one committing it; having the nature of, or resembling, regicide. Bp. Warburton. 

REGIDOR:  One of a body of officers charged with the government of Spanish municipalities, corresponding to the English alderman. 

REGILD:  To gild anew. 

REGIME:  The condition of a river with respect to the rate of its flow, as measured by the volume of water passing different cross sections in a given time, uniform régime being the condition when the flow is equal and uniform at all the cross sections. The ancient régime, or Ancien régime Etym: [F.], the former political and social system, as distinguished from the modern; especially, the political and social system existing in France before the Revolution of 1789. 

REGIMEN:  a systematic course of diet, etc., pursed with a view to improving or preserving the health, or for the purpose of attaining some particular effect, as a reduction of flesh; -- sometimes used synonymously with hygiene.  3. (Gram.) (a) A syntactical relation between words, as when one depends on another and is regulated by it in respect to case or mood; government. (b) The word or words governed. 

REGIMENT:  A body of men, either horse, foot, or artillery, commanded by a colonel, and consisting of a number of companies, usually ten.  Note: In the British army all the artillery are included in one regiment, which (reversing the usual practice) is divided into brigades. Regiment of the line (Mil.), a regiment organized for general service; -- in distinction from those (as the Life Guards) whose duties are usually special. [Eng.] 

REGIMENT:  To form into a regiment or into regiments. Washington. 

REGIMENTAL:  Belonging to, or concerning, a regiment; as, regimental officers, clothing. Regimental school, in the British army, a school for the instruction of the private soldiers of a regiment, and their children, in the rudimentary branches of education. 

REGIMENTALLY:  In or by a regiment or regiments; as, troops classified regimentally. 

REGIMENTALS:  The uniform worn by the officers and soldiers of a regiment; military dress; -- formerly used in the singular in the same sense. Colman. 

REGIMINAL:  Of or relating to regimen; as, regiminal rules. 

REGIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a particular region; sectional. 

REGIOUS:  Regal; royal. [Obs.] Harrington. 

REGISTER:  One who registers or records; a registrar; a recorder; especially, a public officer charged with the duty of recording certain transactions or events; as, a register of deeds.  4. That which registers or records. Specifically: (a) (Mech.) A contrivance for automatically noting the performance of a machine or the rapidity of a process. (b) (Teleg.) The part of a telegraphic apparatus which records automatically the message received. (c) A machine for registering automatically the number of persons passing through a gateway, fares taken, etc.; a telltale.  5. A lid, stopper, or sliding plate, in a furnace, stove, etc., for regulating the admission of air to the fuel; also, an arrangement containing dampers or shutters, as in the floor or wall of a room or passage, or in a chimney, for admitting or excluding heated air, or for regulating ventilation.  6. (Print.) (a) The inner part of the mold in which types are cast. (b) The correspondence of pages, columns, or lines on the opposite or reverse sides of the sheet. (c) The correspondence or adjustment of the several impressions in a design which is printed in parts, as in chromolithographic printing, or in the manufacture of paper hangings. See Register, v. i. 2.  7. (Mus.) (a) The compass of a voice or instrument; a specified portion of the compass of a voice, or a series of vocal tones of a given compass; as, the upper, middle, or lower register; the soprano register; the tenor register.  Note: In respect to the vocal tones, the thick register properly extends below from the F on the lower space of the treble staff. The thin register extends an octave above this. The small register is above the thin. The voice in the thick register is called the chest voice; in the thin, the head voice. Falsetto is a kind off voice, of a thin, shrull quality, made by using the mechanism of the upper thin register for tones below the proper limit on the scale. E. Behnke. (b) A stop or set of pipes in an organ. Parish register, A book in which are recorded the births, baptisms, marriages, deaths, and burials in a parish.  Syn.  -- List; catalogue; roll; record; archives; chronicle; annals. See List. 

REGISTER:  To correspond in ralative position; as, two pages, columns, etc. , register when the corresponding parts fall in the same line, or when line falls exactly upon line in reverse pages, or (as in chromatic printing) where the various colors of the design are printed consecutively, and perfect adjustment of parts is necessary. 

REGISTERING:  Recording; -- applied to instruments; having an apparatus which registers; as, a registering thermometer. See Recording. 

REGISTERSHIP:  The office of a register. 

REGISTRANT:  One who registers; esp., one who , by virtue of securing an official registration, obtains a certain right or title of possession, as to a trade-mark. 

REGISTRAR:  One who registers; a recorder; a keeper of records; as, a registrar of births, deaths, and marriages. See Register, n., 3. 

REGISTRARSHIP:  The office of a registrar. 

REGISTRARY:  A registrar. [Obs.] 

REGISTRATE:  To register. [R.] 

REGISTRATION:  The art of selecting and combining the stops or registers of an organ. 

REGIUS:  Of or pertaining to a king; royal. Regius professor, an incumbent of a professorship founded by royal bounty, as in an English university. 

REGIVE:  To give again; to give back. 

REGLE:  To rule; to govern. [Obs.] "To regle their lives." Fuller. 

REGLEMENT:  Regulation. [Obs.] The reformation and reglement of usuary. Bacon. 

REGLEMENTARY:  Regulative. [R.] 

REGLET:  A flat, narrow molding, used chiefly to separate the parts or members of compartments or panels from one another, or doubled, turned, and interlaced so as to form knots, frets, or other ornaments. See Illust. (12) of Column.  2. (Print.)  A strip of wood or metal of the height of a quadrat, used for regulating the space between pages in a chase, and also for spacing out title-pages and other open matter. It is graded to different sizes, and designated by the name of the type that it matches; as, nonpareil reglet, pica reglet, and the like. 

REGMA:  A kind of dry fruit, consisting of three or more cells, each which at length breaks open at the inner angle. 

REGMACARP:  Any dry dehiscent fruit. 

REGNAL:  Of or pertaining to the reign of a monarch; as, regnal years. 

REGNANCY:  The condition or quality of being regnant; sovereignty; rule. Coleridge. 

REGNATIVE:  Ruling; governing. [Obs.] 

REGNE:  See Reign. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REGRADE:  To retire; to go back. [Obs.] W. Hales. 

REGRAFT:  To graft again. 

REGRANT:  To grant back; to grant again or anew. Ayliffe. 

REGRATE:  To remove the outer surface of, as of an old hewn stone, so as to give it a fresh appearance.  2. To offend; to shock. [Obs.] Derham. 

REGRATE:  To buy in large quantities, as corn, provisions, etc., at a market or fair, with the intention of selling the same again, in or near the same place, at a higher price, -- a practice which was formerly treated as a public offense. 

REGRATER:  One who regrates. 

REGRATERY:  The act or practice of regrating. 

REGRATIATORY:  A returning or giving of thanks. [Obs.] Skelton. 

REGRATOR:  One guilty of regrating. 

REGREDE:  To go back; to retrograde, as the apsis of a planet's orbit. [R.] Todhunter. 

REGREDIENCE:  A going back; a retrogression; a return. [R.] Herrick. 

REGREET:  To greet again; to resalute; to return a salutation to; to greet. Shak. 

REGREET:  A return or exchange of salutation. 

REGRESS:  To go back; to return to a former place or state. Sir T. Browne. 

REGRESSION:  The act of passing back or returning; retrogression; retrogradation. Sir T. Browne. Edge of regression (of a surface) (Geom.), the line along which a surface turns back upon itself; -- called also a cuspidal edge.  -- Regression point (Geom.), a cusp. 

REGRESSIVELY:  In a regressive manner. 

REGRET:  To experience regret on account of; to lose or miss with a sense of regret; to feel sorrow or dissatisfaction on account of (the happening or the loss of something); as, to regret an error; to regret lost opportunities or friends. Calmly he looked on either life, and here Saw nothing to regret, or there to fear. Pope. In a few hours they [the Israelites] began to regret their slavery, and to murmur against their leader. Macaulay. Recruits who regretted the plow from which they had been violently taken. Macaulay. 

REGRETFUL:  Full of regret; indulging in regrets; repining.  -- Re*gret"ful*ly, adv. 

REGROW:  To grow again. The snail had power to regrow them all [horns, tongue, etc.] A. B. Buckley. 

REGROWTH:  The act of regrowing; a second or new growth. Darwin. The regrowth of limbs which had been cut off. A. B. Buckley. 

REGUARDANT:  Same as Regardant. 

REGUERDON:  To reward. [Obs.] Shak. 

REGULABLE:  Capable of being regulated. [R.] 

REGULAR:  Having all the parts of the same kind alike in size and shape; as, a regular flower; a regular sea urchin.  7. (Crystallog.)  Same as Isometric. Regular polygon (Geom.), a plane polygon which is both equilateral and equiangular.  -- Regular polyhedron (Geom.), a polyhedron whose faces are equal regular polygons. There are five regular polyhedrons, -- the tetrahedron, the hexahedron, or cube, the octahedron, the dodecahedron, and the icosahedron.  -- Regular sales (Stock Exchange), sales of stock deliverable on the day after the transaction.  -- Regular troops, troops of a standing or permanent army; -- opposed to militia.  Syn.  -- Normal; orderly; methodical. See Normal. 

REGULAR:  A member of any religious order or community who has taken the vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience, and who has been solemnly recognized by the church. Bp. Fitzpatrick.  2. (Mil.)  A soldier belonging to a permanent or standing army; -- chiefly used in the plural. 

REGULARIA:  A division of Echini which includes the circular, or regular, sea urchins. 

REGULARITY:  The condition or quality of being regular; as, regularity of outline; the regularity of motion. 

REGULARIZE:  To cause to become regular; to regulate. [R.] 

REGULARLY:  In a regular manner; in uniform order; methodically; in due order or time. 

REGULARNESS:  Regularity. Boyle. 

REGULATIVE:  Necessarily assumed by the mind as fundamental to all other knowledge; furnishing fundamental principles; as, the regulative principles, or principles a priori; the regulative faculty. Sir W. Hamilton.  Note: These terms are borrowed from Kant, and suggest the thought, allowed by Kant, that possibly these principles are only true for the human mind, the operations and belief of which they regulate. 

REGULATOR:  A contrivance for regulating and controlling motion, as: (a) The lever or index in a watch, which controls the effective length of the hairspring, and thus regulates the vibrations of the balance. (b) The governor of a steam engine. (c) A valve for controlling the admission of steam to the steam chest, in a locomotive.  3. A clock, or other timepiece, used as a standard of correct time. See Astronomical clock (a), under Clock.  4. A member of a volunteer committee which, in default of the lawful authority, undertakes to preserve order and prevent crimes; also, sometimes, one of a band organized for the comission of violent crimes. [U.S.] A few stood neutral, or declared in favor of the Regulators. Bancroft. 

REGULINE:  Of or pertaining to regulus. 

REGULIZE:  To reduce to regulus; to separate, as a metal from extraneous matter; as, to regulize antimony. [Archaic] 

REGULUS:  The button, globule, or mass of metal, in a more or less impure state, which forms in the bottom of the crucible in smelting and reduction of ores.  Note: The name was introduced by the alchemists, and applied by them in the first instance to antimony. Ilittle king; and from the facility with which antimony alloyed with gold, these empirical philosophers had great hopes that this metal, antimony, would lead them to the discovery of the philosopher's stone. Ure.  3. (Astron.)  A star of the first magnitude in the constellation Leo; -- called also the Lion's Heart. 

REGURGITATE:  To throw or pour back, as from a deep or hollow place; to pour or throw back in great quantity. 

REGURGITATE:  To be thrown or poured back; to rush or surge back. The food may regurgitatem the stomach into the esophagus and mouth. Quain. 

REGURGITATION:  the reversal of the natural direction in which the current or contents flow through a tube or cavity of the body. Quain.  2. The act of swallowing again; reabsorption. 

REHABILITATE:  To invest or clothe again with some right, authority, or dignity; to restore to a former capacity; to reinstate; to qualify again; to restore, as a delinquent, to a former right, rank, or privilege lost or forfeited; -- a term of civil and canon law. Restoring and rehabilitating the party. Burke. 

REHABILITATION:  The act of rehabilitating, or the state of being rehabilitated. Bouvier. Walsh. 

REHASH:  To hash over again; to prepare or use again; as, to rehash old arguments. 

REHASH:  Something hashed over, or made up from old materials. 

REHEAR:  To hear again; to try a second time; as, to rehear a cause in Chancery. 

REHEARSAL:  The act of rehearsing; recital; narration; repetition; specifically, a private recital, performance, or season of practice, in preparation for a public exhibition or exercise. Chaucer. In rehearsal of our Lord's Prayer. Hooker. Here's marvelous convenient place for our rehearsal. Shak. Dress rehearsal (Theater), a private preparatory performance of a drama, opera, etc., in costume. 

REHEARSE:  To recite or repeat something for practice. "There will we rehearse." Shak. 

REHEARSER:  One who rehearses. 

REHIBITION:  The returning of a thing purchased to the seller, on the ground of defect or frand. 

REHIBITORY:  Of or relating to rehibition; as, a rehibitory action. 

REHIRE:  To hire again. 

REHYPOTHECATE:  To hypothecate again.  -- Re`hy*poth`e*ca"tion, n. 

REI:  A portuguese money of account, in value about one tenth of a cent. [Spelt also ree.] 

REICHSRATH:  The parliament of Austria (exclusive of Hungary, which has its own diet, or parliament). It consists of an Upper and a Lower House, or a House of Lords and a House of Representatives. 

REICHSSTAND:  A free city of the former German empire. 

REICHSTAG:  The Diet, or House of Representatives, of the German empire, which is composed of members elected for a term of three years by the direct vote of the people. See Bundesrath. 

REIF:  Robbery; spoil. [Obs.] 

REIGLE:  A hollow cut or channel for quiding anything; as, the reigle of a side post for a flood gate. Carew. 

REIGLE:  To regulate; to govern. [Obs.] 

REIGLEMENT:  Rule; regulation. [Obs.] Bacon. Jer. Taylor. 

REIGNER:  One who reigns. [R.] 

REILLUME:  To light again; to cause to shine anew; to relume; to reillumine. "Thou must reillume its spark." J. R. Drake. 

REILLUMINATE:  To enlighten again; to reillumine. 

REILLUMINATION:  The act or process of enlightening again. 

REILLUMINE:  To illumine again or anew; to reillume. 

REIM:  A strip of oxhide, deprived of hair, and rendered pliable, -- used for twisting into ropes, etc. [South Africa] Simmonds. 

REIMBARK:  See Re. 

REIMBODY:  To imbody again. Boyle. 

REIMBURSABLE:  Capable of being repaid; repayable. A loan has been made of two millions of dollars, reimbursable in ten years. A. Hamilton. 

REIMBURSEMENT:  The act reimbursing. A. Hamilton. 

REIMBURSER:  One who reimburses. 

REIMPLANT:  To implant again. 

REIMPORT:  To import again; to import what has been exported; to bring back. Young. 

REIMPORTATION:  The act of reimporting; also, that which is reimported. 

REIMPORTUNE:  To importune again. 

REIMPOSE:  To impose anew. 

REIMPREGNATE:  To impregnate again or anew. Sir T. Browne. 

REIMPRESS:  To impress anew. 

REIMPRESSION:  A second or repeated impression; a reprint. 

REIMPRINT:  To imprint again. 

REIMPRISON:  To imprison again. 

REIMPRISONMENT:  The act of reimprisoning, or the state of being reimprisoned. 

REIN:  To be guided by reins. [R.] Shak. 

REINAUGURATE:  To inaugurate anew. 

REINCIT:  To incite again. 

REINCORPORATE:  To incorporate again. 

REINCREASE:  To increase again. 

REINCUR:  To incur again. 

REINDEER:  Any ruminant of the genus Rangifer, of the Deer family, found in the colder parts of both the Eastern and Western hemispheres, and having long irregularly branched antlers, with the brow tines palmate.  Note: The common European species (R. tarandus) is domesticated in Lapland. The woodland reindeer or caribou (R. caribou) is found in Canada and Maine (see Caribou.) The Barren Ground reindeer or caribou (R. Groelandicus), of smaller size, is found on the shores of the Arctic Ocean, in both hemispheries. Reindeer moss (Bot.), a gray branching lichen (Cladonia rangiferina) which forms extensive patches on the ground in arctic and even in north temperature regions. It is the principal food of the Lapland reindeer in winter.  -- Reindeer period (Geol.), a name sometimes given to a part of the Paleolithic era when the reindeer was common over Central Europe. 

REINDUCE:  To induce again. 

REINETTE:  A name given to many different kinds of apples, mostly of French origin. 

REINFECT:  To infect again. 

REINFECTIOUS:  Capable of reinfecting. 

REINFORCE:  See Reënforce, v. t. 

REINFORCE:  See Reënforce, n. 

REINFORCEMENT:  See Reënforcement. 

REINFUND:  To flow in anew. [Obs.] Swift. 

REINGRATIATE:  To ingratiate again or anew. Sir. T. Herbert. 

REINHABIT:  To inhabit again. Mede. 

REINLESS:  Not having, or not governed by, reins; hence, not checked or restrained. 

REINSERT:  To insert again. 

REINSERTION:  The act of reinserting. 

REINSPECT:  To inspect again. 

REINSPECTION:  The act of reinspecting. 

REINSPIRE:  To inspire anew. Milton. 

REINSPIRIT:  To give fresh spirit to. 

REINSTALL:  To install again. Milton. 

REINSTALLMENT:  A renewed installment. 

REINSTATE:  To place again in possession, or in a former state; to restore to a state from which one had been removed; to instate again; as, to reinstate a king in the possession of the kingdom. For the just we have said already thet some of them were reinstated in their pristine happiness and felicity. Glanvill. 

REINSTATEMENT:  The act of reinstating; the state of being reinstated; re 

REINSTATION:  Reinstatement. [R.] 

REINSTRUCT:  To instruct anew. 

REINSURER:  One who gives reinsurance. 

REINTEGRATE:  To renew with regard to any state or quality; to restore; to bring again together into a whole, as the parts off anything; to reas, to reintegrate a nation. Bacon. 

REINTEGRATION:  A renewing, or making whole again. See Redintegration. 

REINTER:  To inter again. 

REINTERROGATE:  To interrogate again; to question repeatedly. Cotgrave. 

REINTHRONE:  See Reënthrone. 

REINTHRONIZE:  To enthrone again.[Obs.] 

REINTRODUCE:  To introduce again.  -- Re*in`tro*duc"tion (-d, n. 

REINVEST:  To invest again or anew. 

REINVESTIGATE:  To investigate again.  -- Re`in*ves`ti*ga"tion (-g, n. 

REINVESTMENT:  The act of investing anew; a second or repeated investment. 

REINVIGORATE:  To invigorate anew. 

REINVOLVE:  To involve anew. 

REIS:  The word is used as a Portuguese designation of money of account, one hundred reis being about equal in value to eleven cents. 

REIS:  A common title in the East for a person in authority, especially the captain of a ship. [Written also rais and ras.]  REIS EFFENDI Reis` Ef*fen"di (rs` f*fn"d). Etym: [See 2d Reis, and Effendi.]  A title formerly given to one of the chief Turkish officers of state. He was chancellor of the empire, etc.  REISSNER'S MEMBRANE Reiss"ner's mem"brane (rs"nrz mm"brn). Etym: [Named from E. Reissner, A German anatomist.] (Anat.)  The thin membrane which separates the canal of the cochlea from the vestibular scala in the internal ear. 

REISSUABLE:  Capable of being reissued. 

REISSUE:  To issue a second time. 

REISSUE:  A second or repeated issue. 

REIT:  Sedge; seaweed. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

REITER:  A German cavalry soldier of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. 

REITERANT:  Reiterating. [R.] Mrs. Browning. 

REITERATE:  To repeat again and again; to say or do repeatedly; sometimes, to repeat. That with reiterated crimes he might Heap on himself damnation. Milton. You never spoke what did become you less Than this; which to reiterate were sin. Shak.  Syn.  -- To repeat; recapitulate; rehearse. 

REITERATE:  Reiterated; repeated. [R.] 

REITERATEDLY:  Repeatedly. 

REITERATION:  The act of reiterating; that which is reiterated. 

REITERATIVE:  A word expressing repeated or reiterated action.  2. A word formed from another, or used to form another, by repetition; as, dillydally. 

REIVER:  See Reaver. Ruskin. 

REJECTABLE:  Capable of being, or that ought to be, rejected. 

REJECTAMENTA:  Things thrown out or away; especially, things excreted by a living organism. J. Fleming. 

REJECTANEOUS:  Not chosen orr received; rejected. [Obs.] "Profane, rejectaneous, and reprobate people." Barrow. 

REJECTER:  One who rejects. 

REJECTION:  Act of rejecting, or state of being rejected. 

REJECTITIOUS:  Implying or requiring rejection; rejectable. Cudworth. 

REJECTIVE:  Rejecting, or tending to reject. 

REJECTMENT:  Act of rejecting; matter rejected, or thrown away. Eaton. 

REJOICE:  To feel joy; to experience gladness in a high degree; to have pleasurable satisfaction; to be delighted. "O, rejoice beyond a common joy." Shak. I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy. Ps. xxxi. 7.  Syn. To delight; joy; exult; triumph. 

REJOICE:  The act of rejoicing. Sir T. Browne. 

REJOICEMENT:  Rejoicing. [Obs.] 

REJOICER:  One who rejoices. 

REJOICINGLY:  With joi or exultation. 

REJOIN:  To answer, as the defendant to the plaintiff's replication. 

REJOINDER:  The defendant's answer to the plaintiff's replication.  Syn.  -- Reply; ansswer; replication. See Reply. 

REJOINDER:  To make a rejoinder. [Archaic] 

REJOINDURE:  Act of joining again. [Obs.] "Beguiles our lips of all rejoindure" (i.e., kisses). Shak. 

REJOLT:  A reacting jolt or shock; a rebound or recoil. [R.] These inward rejolts and recoilings of the mind. South. 

REJOLT:  To jolt or shake again. Locke. 

REJOURN:  To adjourn; to put off. [Obs.] Shak. 

REJOURNMENT:  Adjournment. [Obs.] 

REJUDGE:  To judge again; to re Rejudge his acts, and dignify disgrace. Pope. 

REJUVENATE:  To render young again. 

REJUVENATION:  Rejuvenescence. 

REJUVENESCENCE:  A method of cell formation in which the entire protoplasm of an old cell escapes by rupture of the cell wall, and then develops a new cell wall. It is seen sometimes in the formation of zo 

REJUVENESCENCY:  Rejuvenescence. 

REJUVENESCENT:  Becoming, or causing to become, rejuvenated; rejuvenating. 

REJUVENIZE:  To rejuvenate. 

REKINDLE:  To kindle again. 

REKNE:  To reckon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RELADE:  To lade or load again. 

RELAID:  imp. & p. p. of Relay. 

RELAIS:  A narrow space between the foot of the rampart and the scarp of the ditch, serving to receive the earth that may crumble off or be washed down, and prevent its falling into the ditch. Wilhelm. 

RELAND:  To land again; to put on land, as that which had been shipped or embarked. 

RELAND:  To go on shore after having embarked; to land again. 

RELAPSE:  To fall from Christian faith into paganism, heresy, or unbelief; to backslide. They enter into the justified state, and so continue all along, unless they relapse. Waterland. 

RELAPSER:  One who relapses. Bp. Hall. 

RELAPSING:  Marked by a relapse; falling back; tending to return to a former worse state. Relapsing fever (Med.), an acute, epidemic, contagious fever, which prevails also endemically in Ireland, Russia, and some other regions. It is marked by one or two remissions of the fever, by articular and muscular pains, and by the presence, during the paroxism of spiral bacterium (Spirochæte) in the blood. It is not usually fatal. Called also famine fever, and recurring fever. 

RELATED:  Same as Relative, 4. 

RELATEDNESS:  The state or condition of being related; relationship; affinity. [R.] Emerson. 

RELATER:  One who relates or narrates. 

RELATIONIST:  A relative; a relation. [Obs.] 

RELATIONSHIP:  The state of being related by kindred, affinity, or other alliance. Mason. 

RELATIVE:  Indicating or expressing relation; refering to an antecedent; as, a relative pronoun.  4. (Mus.)  Characterizing or pertaining to chords and keys, which, by reason of the identify of some of their tones, admit of a natural transition from one to the other. Moore (Encyc. of Music). Relative clause (Gram.), a clause introduced by a relative pronoun.  -- Relative term, a term which implies relation to, as guardian to ward, matter to servant, husband to wife. Cf. Correlative. 

RELATIVE:  One who, or that which, relates to, or is considered in its relation to, something else; a relative object or term; one of two object or term; one of two objects directly connected by any relation. Specifically: (a) A person connected by blood or affinity; strictly, one allied by blood; a relation; a kinsman or kinswoman. "Confining our care . . . to ourselves and relatives." Bp. Fell. (b) (Gram.) A relative prnoun; a word which relates to, or represents, another word or phrase, called its antecedent; as, the relatives " who", "which", "that". 

RELATIVELY:  In a relative manner; in relation or respect to something else; not absolutely. Consider the absolute affections of any being as it is in itself, before you consider it relatively. I. Watts. 

RELATIVENESS:  The state of being relative, or having relation; relativity. 

RELATIVITY:  The state of being relative; as, the relativity of a subject. Coleridge. 

RELATOR:  A private person at whose relation, or in whose behalf, the attorney-general allows an information in the nature of a quo warranto to be filed. 

RELATRIX:  A female relator. 

RELAX:  Relaxation. [Obs.] Feltham. 

RELAX:  Relaxed; lax; hence, remiss; careless. 

RELAXABLE:  Capable of being relaxed. 

RELAXANT:  A medicine that relaxes; a laxative. 

RELAXATIVE:  Having the quality of relaxing; laxative.  -- n.  A relaxant. B. Jonson. 

RELAY:  To lay again; to lay a second time; as, to relay a pavement. 

RELAY:  In various forms of telegrapfhic apparatus, a megnet which receives the circuit current, and is caused by it to bring into into action the power of a local battery for performing the work of making the record; also, a similar device by which the current in one circuit is made to open or close another circuit in which a current is passing. Relay battery (Elec.), the local battery which is brought into use by the action of the relay magnet, or relay.  RELAY CYLINDER Relay cylinder.  In a variable expansion central-valve engine, a small auxiliary engine for automatically adjusting the steam distribution to the load on the main engine. [Webster 1913 Suppl.]  RELAY GOVERNOR Relay governor.  A speed regulator, as a water-wheel governor, embodying the relay principle. [Webster 1913 Suppl.] 

RELBUN:  The roots of the Chilian plant Calceolaria arachnoidea, -- used for dyeing crimson. 

RELEASABLE:  That may be released. 

RELEASE:  To lease again; to grant a new lease of; to let back. 

RELEASE:  To let go, as a legal claim; to discharge or relinquish a right to, as lands or tenements, by conveying to another who has some right or estate in possession, as when the person in remainder releases his right to the tenant in possession; to quit.  4. To loosen; to relax; to remove the obligation of; as, to release an ordinance. [Obs.] Hooker. A sacred vow that none should aye Spenser.  Syn.  -- To free; liberate; loose; discharge; disengage; extracate; let go; quit; acquit. 

RELEASE:  A giving up or relinquishment of some right or claim; a conveyance of a man's right in lands or tenements to another who has some estate in possession; a quitclaim. Blackstone.  5. (Steam Engine)  The act of opening the exhaust port to allow the steam to escape. Lease and release. (Law) See under Lease.  -- Out of release, without cessation. [Obs.] Chaucer.  Syn.  -- Liberation; freedom; discharge. See Death. 

RELEASEE:  One to whom a release is given. 

RELEASEMENT:  The act of releasing, as from confinement or obligation. Milton. 

RELEASER:  One who releases, or sets free. 

RELEASOR:  One by whom a release is given. 

RELEGATE:  To remove, usually to an inferior position; to consign; to transfer; specifically, to send into exile; to banish. It [the Latin language] was relegated into the study of the scholar. Milman. 

RELEGATION:  The act of relegating, or the state of being relegated; removal; banishment; exile. 

RELENT:  Stay; stop; delay. [Obs.] Nor rested till she came without relent Unto the land of Amazona. Spenser. 

RELENTLESS:  Unmoved by appeals for sympathy or forgiveness; insensible to the distresses of others; destitute of tenderness; unrelenting; unyielding; unpitying; as, a prey to relentless despotism. For this the avenging power employs his darts,.. Thus will persist, relentless in his ire. Dryden. -- Re*lent"less*ly, adv.  -- Re*lent"less*ness, n. 

RELENTMENT:  The act or process of retenting; the state of having relented. Sir T. Browne. 

RELESSE:  To release. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RELESSEE:  See Releasee. 

RELESSOR:  See Releasor.  RE-LET Re-let" (r-lt"), v. t.  To let anew, as a hous.  RELEVANCE; RELEVANCY Rel"e*vance, Rel"e*van*cy, n.  1. The quality or state of being relevant; pertinency; applicability. Its answer little meaning, little relevancy bore. Poe.  2. (Scots Law)  Sufficiency to infer the conclusion. 

RELEVANT:  Sufficient to support the cause. 

RELEVANTLY:  In a relevant manner. 

RELEVATION:  A raising or lifting up. [Obs.] 

RELIABILITY:  The state or quality of being reliable; reliableness. 

RELIABLE:  Suitable or fit to be relied on; worthy of dependance or reliance; trustworthy. "A reliable witness to the truth of the miracles." A. Norton. The best means, and most reliable pledge, of a higher object. Coleridge. According to General Livingston's humorous account, his own village of Elizabethtown was not much more reliable, being peopled in those agitated times by "unknown, unrecommended strangers, guilty-looking Tories, and very knavish Whigs." W. Irving.  Note: Some authors take exception to this word, maintaining that it is unnecessary, and irregular in formation. It is, however, sanctioned by the practice of many careful writers as a most convenient substitute for the phrase to be relied upon, and a useful synonym for trustworthy, which is by preference applied to persons, as reliable is to things, such as an account, statement, or the like. The objection that adjectives derived from neuter verbs do not admit of a passive sense is met by the citation of laughable, worthy of being laughed at, from the neuter verb to laugh; available, fit or able to be availed of, from the neuter verb to avail; dispensable, capable of being dispensed with, from the neuter verb to dispense. Other examples might be added.  -- Re*li"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Re*li"a*bly, adv. 

RELIANT:  Having, or characterized by, reliance; confident; trusting. 

RELICLY:  In the manner of relics. [Obs.] 

RELICT:  A woman whose husband is dead; a widow. Eli dying without issue, Jacob was obbliged by law to marry his relict, and so to raise up seed to his brother Eli. South. 

RELICTED:  Left uncovered, as land by recession of water. Bouvier. 

RELICTION:  A leaving dry; a recession of the sea or other water, leaving dry land; land left uncovered by such recession. Burrill. 

RELIEF:  A fine or composition which the heir of a deceased tenant paid to the lord for the privilege of taking up the estate, which, on strict feudal principles, had lapsed or fallen to the lord on the death of the tenant.  5. (Sculp. & Arch.)  The projection of a figure above the ground or plane on wwhich it is formed.  Note: Relief is of three kinds, namely, high relief (altorilievo), low relief, (basso-rilievo), and demirelief (mezzo-rilievo). See these terms in the Vocabulary.  6. (Paint.)  The appearance of projection given by shading, shadow, etc., to any figure.  7. (Fort.)  The height to which works are raised above the bottom of the ditch. Wilhelm.  8. (Physical Geog.)  The elevations and surface undulations of a country. Guyot. Relief valve, a valve arranged for relieving pressure of steam, gas, or liquid; an escape valve.  Syn.  -- Alleviation; mitigation; aid; help; succor; assistance; remedy; redress; indemnification. 

RELIEFFUL:  Giving relief. [Obs.] 

RELIEFLESS:  Destitute of relief; also, remediless. 

RELIER:  One who relies. 

RELIEVABLE:  Capable of being relieved; fitted to recieve relief. Sir M. Hale. 

RELIEVEMENT:  The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; relief; release. [Archaic.] 

RELIEVER:  One who, or that which, relieves. 

RELIEVING:  Serving or tending to relieve. Relieving arch (Arch.), a discharging arch. See under Discharge, v. t.  -- Relieving tackle. (Naut.) (a) A temporary tackle attached to the tiller of a vessel during gales or an action, in case of accident to the tiller ropes. (b) A strong tackle from a wharf to a careened vessel, to prevent her from going over entirely, and to assist in righting her. Totten. Craig. 

RELIEVO:  See Relief, n., 5. 

RELIGHT:  To light or kindle anew.  RELIGIEUSE; RELIGIEUX Re*li`gi`euse", n. f. Re*li`gi`eux", n. m.Etym: [F.]  A person bound by monastic vows; a nun; a monk. 

RELIGION:  A monastic or religious order subject to a regulated mode of life; the religious state; as, to enter religion. Trench. A good man was there of religion. Chaucer.  4. Strictness of fidelity in conforming to any practice, as if it were an enjoined rule of conduct. [R.] Those parts of pleading which in ancient times might perhaps be material, but at this time are become only mere styles and forms, are still continued with much religion. Sir M. Hale.  Note: Religion, as distinguished from theology, is subjective, designating the feelings and acts of men which relate to God; while theology is objective, and denotes those ideas which man entertains respecting the God whom he worships, especially his systematized views of God. As distinguished from morality, religion denotes the influences and motives to human duty which are found in the character and will of God, while morality describes the duties to man, to which true religion always influences. As distinguished from piety, religion is a high sense of moral obligation and spirit of reverence or worship which affect the heart of man with respect to the Deity, while piety, which first expressed the feelings of a child toward a parent, is used for that filial sentiment of veneration and love which we owe to the Father of all. As distinguished from sanciti, religion is the means by which sanctity is achieved, sanctity denoting primarily that purity of heart and life which results from habitual communion with God, and a sense of his continual presence. Natural religion, a religion based upon the evidences of a God and his qualities, which is supplied by natural phenomena. See Natural theology, under Natural.  -- Religion of humanity, a name sometimes given to a religion founded upon positivism as a philosophical basis.  -- Revealed religion, that which is based upon direct communication of God's will to mankind; especially, the Christian religion, based on the revelations recorded in the Old and New Testaments. 

RELIGIONARY:  Relating to religion; pious; as, religionary professions. [Obs.]  RELIGIONARY; RELIGIONER Re*li"gion*a*ry, Re*li"gion*er (-r), n.  A religionist. [R.] 

RELIGIONIST:  One earnestly devoted or attached to a religion; a religious zealot. The chief actors on one side were, and were to be, the Puritan religionists. Palfrey. It might be that an Antinomian, a Quaker, or other heterodoreligionists, was to be scourged out of the town. Hawthorne. 

RELIGIONIZE:  To bring under the influence of religion. [R.] Mallock. 

RELIGIONLESS:  Destitute of religion. 

RELIGIOSITY:  The quality of being religious; religious feeling or sentiment; religiousness. [R.] M. Arnold. 

RELIGIOUS:  A person bound by monastic vows, or sequestered from secular concern, and devoted to a life of piety and religion; a monk or friar; a nun. Addison. 

RELIGIOUSLY:  In a religious manner. Drayton. 

RELIGIOUSNESS:  The quality of being religious. 

RELIK:  Relic. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RELINQUENT:  Relinquishing. [R.] 

RELINQUENT:  One who relinquishes. [R.] 

RELINQUISHER:  One who relinquishes. 

RELINQUISHMENT:  The act of relinquishing. 

RELIQUARY:  A depositary, often a small box or casket, in which relics are kept. 

RELIQUE:  See Relic. Chaucer. 

RELIQUIAE:  Same as Induviæ. 

RELIQUIAN:  Of or pertaining to a relic or relics; of the nature of a relic. [R.] 

RELIQUIDATE:  To liquidate anew; to adjust a second time. 

RELIQUIDATION:  A second or renewed liquidation; a renewed adjustment. A. Hamilton. 

RELISH:  To have a pleasing or appetizing taste; to give gratification; to have a flavor. Had I been the finder-out of this secret, it would not have relished among my other discredits. Shak. A theory, which, how much soever it may relish of wit and invention, hath no foundation in nature. Woodward. 

RELISH:  The projection or shoulder at the side of, or around, a tenon, on a tenoned piece. Knight. 

RELISHABLE:  Capable of being relished; agreeable to the taste; gratifying. 

RELIVE:  To live again; to revive. 

RELIVE:  To recall to life; to revive. [Obs.] 

RELOAD:  To load again, as a gun. 

RELOAN:  A second lending of the same thing; a renewal of a loan. 

RELOCATE:  To locate again. 

RELOCATION:  Renewal of a lease. 

RELODGE:  To lodge again. 

RELOVE:  To love in return. [Obs.] Boyle. 

RELUCENT:  Reflecting light; shining; glittering; glistening; bright; luminous; splendid. Gorgeous banners to the sun expand Their streaming volumes of relucent gold. Glover. 

RELUCT:  To strive or struggle against anything; to make resistance; to draw back; to feel or show repugnance or reluctance. Apt to reluct at the excesses of it [passion]. Walton.  RELUCTANCE; RELUCTANCY Re*luc"tance, Re*luc"tan*cy, n. Etym: [See Reluctant.]  The state or quality of being reluctant; repugnance; aversion of mind; unwillingness; -- often followed by an infinitive, or by to and a noun, formerly sometimes by against. "Tempering the severity of his looks with a reluctance to the action." Dryden. He had some reluctance to obey the summons. Sir W. Scott. Bear witness, Heaven, with what reluctancy Her helpless innocence I doom to die. Dryden.  Syn. See Dislike. 

RELUCTANTLY:  In a reluctant manner. 

RELUCTATE:  To struggle against anything; to resist; to oppose. [Obs.] "To delude their reluctating consciences." Dr. H. More. 

RELUCTATION:  Repugnance; resistance; reluctance. [Obs.] Bacon. 

RELUCTIVITY:  Specific reluctance. 

RELUME:  To rekindle; to light again. Relumed her ancient light, not kindled new. Pope. I know not where is that Promethean heat That can thy light relume. Shak. 

RELY:  To rest with confidence, as when fully satisfied of the veracity, integrity, or ability of persons, or of the certainty of facts or of evidence; to have confidence; to trust; to depend; -- with on, formerly also with in. Go in thy native innocence; rely On what thou hast of virtue. Milton. On some fond breast the parting soul relies. Gray.  Syn.  -- To trust; depend; confide; repose. 

REMADE:  imp. & p. p. of Remake. 

REMAIN:  To await; to be left to. [Archaic] The easier conquest now remains thee. Milton. 

REMAINDER:  The quantity or sum that is left after subtraction, or after any deduction.  3. (Law)  An estate in expectancy, generally in land, which becomes an estate in possession upon the determination of a particular prior estate, created at the same time, and by the same instrument; for example, if land be conveyed to A for life, and on his death to B, A's life interest is a particuar estate, and B's interest is a remainder, or estate in remainder.  Syn.  -- Balance; rest; residue; remnant; leavings. 

REMAINDER:  Remaining; left; left over; refuse. Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit After a voyage. Shak.  REMAINDER-MAN Re*main"der-man (- mân), n.; pl. Remainder-men (-mên). (Law)  One who has an estate after a particular estate is determined. See Remainder, n., 3. Blackstone. 

REMAKE:  To make anew. 

REMAND:  To recommit; to send back. Remand it to its former place. South. Then were they remanded to the cage again. Bunyan. 

REMAND:  The act of remanding; the order for recommitment. 

REMANDMENT:  A remand.  REMANENCE; REMANENCY Rem"a*nence, Rem"a*nen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. remanence, LL. remanentia, fr. L. remanens. See Remanent, a.]  The state of being remanent; continuance; permanence. [R.] Jer. Taylor. The remanence of the will in the fallen spirit. Coleridge. 

REMANENT:  That which remains; a remnant; a residue. 

REMANENT:  Remaining; residual. That little hope that is remanent hath its degree according to the infancy or growth of the habit. Jer. Taylor. Remanent magnetism (Physics), magnetism which remains in a body that has little coercive force after the magnetizing force is withdrawn, as soft iron; -- called also residual magnetism. 

REMANET:  A case for trial which can not be tried during the term; a postponed case. [Eng.]  RE-MARK Re-mark" (r-mrk"), v. t. Etym: [Pref. re- + mark.]  To mark again, or a second time; to mark anew. 

REMARK:  To make a remark or remarks; to comment. 

REMARKABLE:  Worthy of being remarked or noticed; noticeable; conspicuous; hence, uncommon; extraordinary. 'T is remarkable, that they Talk most who have the least to say. Prior. There is nothing left remarlable Beneath the visiting moon. Shak.  Syn.  -- Observable; noticeable; extraordinary; unusual; rare; strange; wonderful; notable; eminent.  -- Re*mark"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Re*mark"a*bly, adv. 

REMARKER:  One who remarks.  REMARQUE; REMARK; REMARQUE PROOF Re*marque", n. Also Remark. (Engraving)  (a) A small design etched on the margin of a plate and supposed to be removed after the earliest proofs have been taken; also, any feature distinguishing a particular stage of the plate.  (b) A print or proof so distinguished; -- commonly called a Remarque proof. 

REMARRIAGE:  A second or repeated marriage. 

REMARRY:  To marry again. 

REMAST:  To furnish with a new mast or set of masts. 

REMASTICATE:  To chew or masticate again; to chew over and over, as the cud. 

REMASTICATION:  The act of masticating or chewing again or repeatedly. 

REMBERGE:  See Ramberge. 

REMBLAI:  Earth or materials made into a bank after having been excavated. 

REMBLE:  To remove. [Prov.Eng.] Grose. Tennyson. 

REME:  Realm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REMEAN:  To give meaning to; to explain the meaning of; to interpret. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

REMEANT:  Coming back; returning. [R.] "Like the remeant sun." C. Kingsley. 

REMEASURE:  To measure again; to retrace. They followed him . . . The way they came, their steps remeasured right. Fairfax. 

REMEDE:  Remedy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REMEDIABLE:  Capable of being remedied or cured.  -- Re*me"di*a*ble*ness, n. -Re*me"di*a*bly, adv. 

REMEDIAL:  Affording a remedy; intended for a remedy, or for the removal or abatement of an evil; as, remedial treatment. Statutes are declaratory or remedial. Blackstone. It is an evil not compensated by any beneficial result; it is not remedial, not conservative. I. Taylor. 

REMEDIALLY:  In a remedial manner. 

REMEDIATE:  Remedial. [R.] Shak. 

REMEDY:  The legal means to recover a right, or to obtain redress for a wrong. Civil remedy. See under Civil.  -- Remedy of the mint (Coinage), a small allowed deviation from the legal standard of weight and fineness; -- called also tolerance.  Syn.  -- Cure; restorative; counteraction; reparation; redress; relief; aid; help; assistance. 

REMEDY:  To apply a remedy to; to relieve; to cure; to heal; to repair; to redress; to correct; to counteract. I will remedy this gear ere long. Shak. 

REMELT:  To melt again. 

REMEMBER:  To execise or have the power of memory; as, some remember better than others. Shak. 

REMEMBERABLE:  Capable or worthy of being remembered.  -- Re*mem"ber*a*bly, adv. The whole vale of Keswick is so rememberable. Coleridge. 

REMEMBERER:  One who remembers. 

REMEMORATE:  To recall something by means of memory; to remember. [Obs.] Bryskett. 

REMEMORATION:  A recalling by the faculty of memory; remembrance. [Obs. & R.] Bp. Montagu. 

REMEMORATIVE:  Tending or serving to remind. [R.] 

REMENANT:  A remnant. [Obs.]  REMERCIE; REMERCY Re*mer"cie, Re*mer"cy, v. t. Etym: [F. remercier; pref. re- re- + OF. mercier to thank, from OF. & F. merci. See Mercy.]  To thank. [Obs.] She him remercied as the patron of her life. Spenser. 

REMERGE:  To merge again. "Remerging in the general Soul." Tennyson.  REMEVE; REMEWE Re*meve" (r-mEv"), Re*mewe" (r-m"), v. t. & i.  To remove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REMIFORM:  Shaped like an oar. 

REMIGES:  The quill feathers of the wings of a bird. 

REMIGRATE:  To migrate again; to go back; to return. Boyle. 

REMIGRATION:  Migration back to the place from which one came. Sir M. Hale. 

REMIND:  To put (one) in mind of something; to bring to the remembrance of; to bring to the notice or consideration of (a person). When age itself, which will not be defied, shall begin to arrest, seize, and remind us of our mortality. South. 

REMINDER:  One who, or that which, reminds; that which serves to awaken remembrance. 

REMINDFUL:  Tending or adapted to remind; careful to remind. Southey. 

REMINISCENCY:  Reminiscence. [Obs.] 

REMINISCENT:  Recalling to mind, or capable of recalling to mind; having remembrance; reminding one of something. Some other of existence of which we have been previously conscious, and are now reminiscent. Sir W. Hamilton. 

REMINISCENT:  One who is addicted to indulging, narrating, or recording reminiscences. 

REMINISCENTIAL:  Of or pertaining to reminiscence, or remembrance. Sir T. Browne. 

REMIPED:  Having feet or legs that are used as oars; -- said of certain crustaceans and insects. 

REMISE:  To send, give, or grant back; torelease a claim to; to resign or surrender by deed; to return. Blackstone. 

REMISE:  A giving or granting back; surrender; return; release, as of a claim. 

REMISS:  Not energetic or exact in duty or business; not careful or prompt in fulfilling engagements; negligent; careless; tardy; behindhand; lagging; slack; hence, lacking earnestness or activity; languid; slow. Thou never wast remiss, I bear thee witness. Milton. These nervous, bold; those languid and remiss. Roscommon. Its motion becomes more languid and remiss. Woodward.  Syn.  -- Slack; dilatory; slothful; negligent; careless; neglectful; inattentive; heedles; thoughtless. 

REMISS:  The act of being remiss; inefficiency; failure. [Obs.] "Remisses of laws." Puttenham. 

REMISSFUL:  Inclined to remit punishment; lenient; clement. Drayton. 

REMISSIBILITY:  The state or quality of being remissible. Jer. Taylor. 

REMISSIBLE:  Capable of being remitted or forgiven. Feltham. 

REMISSION:  A temporary and incomplete subsidence of the force or violence of a disease or of pain, as destinguished from intermission, in which the disease completely leaves the patient for a time; abatement.  5. The act of sending back. [R.] Stackhouse.  6. Act of sending in payment, as money; remittance. 

REMISSIVE:  Remitting; forgiving; abating. Bp. Hacket. 

REMISSLY:  In a remiss or negligent manner; carelessly. 

REMISSNESS:  Quality or state of being remiss. 

REMISSORY:  Serving or tending to remit, or to secure remission; remissive. "A sacrifice expiatory or remissory." Latimer. 

REMIT:  To transmit or send, esp. to a distance, as money in payment of a demand, account, draft, etc.; as, he remitted the amount by mail.  4. To send off or away; hence: (a) To refer or direct (one) for information, guidance, help, etc. "Remitting them . . . to the works of Galen." Sir T. Elyot. (b) To submit, refer, or leave (something) for judgment or decision. "Whether the counsel be good Iremit it to the wise readers." Sir T. Elyot.  5. To relax in intensity; to make less violent; to abate. So willingly doth God remit his ire. Milton.  6. To forgive; to pardon; to remove. Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them. John xx. 23.  7. To refrain from exacting or enforcing; as, to remit the performance of an obligation. "The sovereign was undoubtedly competent to remit penalties." Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To relax; release; abate; relinguish; forgive; pardon; absolve. 

REMITMENT:  The act of remitting, or the state of being remitted; remission. Disavowing the remitment of Claudius. Milton. 

REMITTAL:  A remitting; a giving up; surrender; as, the remittal of the first fruits. Swift. 

REMITTEE:  One to whom a remittance is sent. 

REMITTENT:  Remitting; characterized by remission; having remissions. Remittent fever (Med.), a fever in which the symptoms temporarily abate at regular intervals, but do not wholly cease. See Malarial fever, under Malarial. 

REMITTER:  The sending or placing back of a person to a title or right he had before; the restitution of one who obtains possession of property under a defective title, to his rights under some valid title by virtue of which he might legally have entered into possession only by suit. Bouvier. 

REMITTOR:  One who makes a remittance; a remitter. 

REMIX:  To mix again or repeatedly. 

REMNANT:  Remaining; yet left. [R.] "Because of the remnant dregs of his disease." Fuller. And quiet dedicate her remnant life To the just duties of an humble wife. Prior. 

REMNANT:  An unsold end of piece goods, as cloth, ribbons, carpets, etc.  Syn.  -- Residue; rest; remains; remainder. 

REMODEL:  To model or fashion anew; to change the form of. The corporation had been remodeled. Macaulay. 

REMODIFICATION:  The act of remodifying; the state of being remodified. 

REMODIFY:  To modify again or anew; to reshape.  REMOLADE; REMOULAD Ré`mo`lade", Ré`mou`lad", n. Etym: [F.]  A kind of piquant sauce or salad dressing resembling mayonnaise.  REMOLADE; REMOULADE Ré`mo`lade", Ré`mou`lade", n. [F.]  An ointment used in farriery.  REMOLD; REMOULD Re*mold", Re*mould" (r-mld"), v. t.  To mold or shape anew or again; to reshape. 

REMOLLIENT:  Mollifying; softening. [R.] 

REMONETIZATION:  The act of remonetizing. 

REMONETIZE:  To restore to use as money; as, to remonetize silver. 

REMONSTRANCE:  Same as Monstrance. 

REMONSTRANT:  Inclined or tending to remonstrate; expostulatory; urging reasons in opposition to something. 

REMONSTRANT:  One who remonstrates; specifically (Eccl. Hist.),  one of the Arminians who remonstrated against the attacks of the Calvinists in 1610, but were subsequently condemned by the decisions of the Synod of Dort in 1618. See Arminian. 

REMONSTRANTLY:  In a remonstrant manner. 

REMONSTRATE:  To point out; to show clearly; to make plain or manifest; hence, to prove; to demonstrate. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. I will remonstrate to you the third door. B. Jonson. 

REMONSTRATE:  To present and urge reasons in opposition to an act, measure, or any course of proceedings; to expostulate; as, to remonstrate with a person regarding his habits; to remonstrate against proposed taxation. It is proper business of a divine to state cases of conscience, and to remonstrate against any growing corruptions in practice, and especially in principles. Waterland.  Syn.  -- Expostulate, Remonstrate. These words are commonly interchangeable, the principal difference being that expostulate is now used especially to signify remonstrance by a superior or by one in authority. A son remonstrates against the harshness of a father; a father expostulates with his son on his waywardness. Subjects remonstrate with their rulers; sovereigns expostulate with the parliament or the people. 

REMONSTRATION:  The act of remonstrating; remonstrance. [R.] Todd. 

REMONSTRATIVE:  Having the character of a remonstrance; expressing remonstrance. 

REMONSTRATOR:  One who remonstrates; a remonsrant. Bp. Burnet. 

REMONTANT:  Rising again; -- applied to a class of roses which bloom more than once in a season; the hybrid perpetual roses, of which the Jacqueminot is a well-known example. 

REMONTOIR:  See under Escapement. 

REMORA:  Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Echeneis, Remora, and allied genera. Called also sucking fish.  Note: The anterior dorsal fin is converted into a large sucking disk, having two transverse rows of lamellæ, situated on the top of the head. They adhere firmly to sharks and other large fishes and to vessels by this curious sucker, letting go at will. The pegador, or remora of sharks (Echeneis naucrates), and the swordfish remora (Remora brachyptera), are common American species.  3. (Surg.)  An instrument formerly in use, intended to retain parts in their places. Dunglison. 

REMORATE:  To hinder; to delay. [Obs.] Johnson. 

REMORD:  To excite to remorse; to rebuke. [Obs.] Skelton. 

REMORD:  To feel remorse. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

REMORDENCY:  Remorse; compunction; compassion. [Obs.] Killingbeck. 

REMORSED:  Feeling remorse. [Obs.] 

REMORSELESS:  Being without remorse; having no pity; hence, destitute of sensibility; cruel; insensible to distress; merciless. "Remorseless adversaries." South. "With remorseless cruelty." Milton.  Syn.  -- Unpitying; pitiless; relentless; unrelenting; implacable; merciless; unmerciful; savage; cruel.  -- Re*morse"less*ly, adv.  -- Re*morse"less*ness, n. 

REMOTE:  Separated by intervals greater than usual.  -- Re*mote"ly, adv.  -- Re*mote"ness, n. 

REMOULD:  See Remold. 

REMOUNT:  To mount again. 

REMOUNT:  The opportunity of, or things necessary for, remounting; specifically, a fresh horse, with his equipments; as, to give one a remount. 

REMOVABLE:  Admitting of being removed. Ayliffe.  -- Re*mov`a*bil"i*ty (-, n. 

REMOVAL:  The act of removing, or the state of being removed. 

REMOVE:  To change place in any manner, or to make a change in place; to move or go from one residence, position, or place to another. Till Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane, I can not taint with fear. Shak.  Note: The verb remove, in some of its application, is synonymous with move, but not in all. Thus we do not apply remove to a mere change of posture, without a change of place or the seat of a thing. A man moves his head when he turns it, or his finger when he bends it, but he does not remove it. Remove usually or always denotes a change of place in a body, but we never apply it to a regular, continued course or motion. We never say the wind or water, or a ship, removes at a certain rate by the hour; but we say a ship was removed from one place in a harbor to another. Move is a generic term, including the sense of remove, which is more generally applied to a change from one station or permanent position, stand, or seat, to another station. 

REMOVE:  The act of resetting a horse's shoe. Swift. 

REMOVER:  One who removes; as, a remover of landmarks. Bacon. 

REMUABLE:  That may be removed; removable. [Obs.] Gower. 

REMUE:  To remove. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REMUGIENT:  Rebellowing. Dr. H. More. 

REMUNERABLE:  Admitting, or worthy, of remuneration.  -- Re*mu`ner*a*bil"i*ty (r, n. 

REMUNERATE:  To pay an equivalent to for any service, loss, expense, or other sacrifice; to recompense; to requite; as, to remunerate men for labor.  Syn.  -- To reward; recompense; compensate; satisfy; requite; repay; pay; reimburse. 

REMUNERATIVE:  Affording remuneration; as, a remunerative payment for services; a remunerative business. -Re*mu"ner*a*tive*ly, adv.  -- Re*mu"ner*a*tive*ness, n. 

REMUNERATORY:  Remunerative. Johnson. 

REMURMUR:  To murmur again; to utter back, or reply, in murmurs. The trembling trees, in every plain and wood, Her fate remurmur to the silver flood. Pope. 

REN:  See Renne. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REN:  A run. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENABLE:  Reasonable; also, loquacious. [Obs.] "Most renable of tongue." Piers Plowman.  -- Ren"a*bly, adv. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENAISSANCE:  A new birth, or revival. Specifically: (a) The transitional movement in Europe, marked by the revival of classical learning and art in Italy in the 15th century, and the similar revival following in other countries. (b) The style of art which prevailed at this epoch. The Renaissance was rather the last stage of the Middle Ages, emerging from ecclesiastical and feudal despotism, developing what was original in mediæval ideas by the light of classic arts and letters. J. A. Symonds (Encyc. Brit. ). 

RENAISSANT:  Of or pertaining to the Renaissance. 

RENAL:  Of or pertaining to the kidneys; in the region of the kidneys. Renal calculus (Med.), a concretion formed in the excretory passages of the kidney.  -- Renal capsules or glands, the suprarenal capsules. See under Capsule.  -- Renal casts, Renal colic. (Med.) See under Cast, and Colic.  RENAL-PORTAL Re"nal-por`tal (r"nal-pr"tal), a. (Anat.)  Both renal and portal. See Portal. 

RENAME:  To give a new name to. 

RENARD:  A fox; -- so called in fables or familiar tales, and in poetry. [Written also reynard.] 

RENARDINE:  Of or pertaining to Renard, the fox, or the tales in which Renard is mentioned. 

RENASCENCY:  State of being renascent. 

RENASCIBLE:  Capable of being reproduced; ablle to spring again into being. 

RENATE:  Born again; regenerate; renewed. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 

RENAVIGATE:  To navigate again. 

RENAY:  To deny; to disown. [Obs.] 

RENCONTRE:  Same as Rencounter, n. 

RENCOUNTER:  To meet unexpectedly; to encounter in a hostile manner; to come in collision; to skirmish. 

REND:  To be rent or torn; to become parted; to sepparate; to split. Jer. Taylor. 

RENDER:  One who rends. 

RENDER:  To pass; to run; -- said of the passage of a rope through a block, eyelet, etc.; as, a rope renders well, that is, passes freely; also, to yield or give way. Totten. 

RENDERABLE:  Capable of being rendered. 

RENDERING:  The act of one who renders, or that which is rendered. Specifically: (a) A version; translation; as, the rendering of the Hebrew text. Lowth. (b) In art, the presentation, expression, or interpretation of an idea, theme, or part. (c) The act of laying the first coat of plaster on brickwork or stonework. (d) The coat of plaster thus laid on. Gwilt. (e) The process of trying out or extracting lard, tallow, etc., from animal fat. 

RENDEZVOUS:  To assemble or meet at a particular place. 

RENDEZVOUS:  To bring together at a certain place; to cause to be assembled. Echard. 

RENDIBLE:  Capable of being rent or torn. 

RENDIBLE:  Capable, or admitting, of being rendered. 

RENDROCK:  A kind of dynamite used in blasting. [U.S.] 

RENEGADE:  One faithless to principle or party. Specifically: (a) An apostate from Christianity or from any form of religious faith. James justly regarded these renegades as the most serviceable tools that he could employ. Macaulay.  (b) One who deserts from a military or naval post; a deserter. Arbuthnot. (c) A common vagabond; a worthless or wicked fellow. 

RENEGADO:  See Renegade. 

RENEGAT:  A renegade. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENEGATION:  A denial. [R.] "Absolute renegation of Christ." Milman. 

RENEGE:  To deny; to disown. [Obs.] Shak. All Europe high (all sorts of rights reneged) Against the trith and thee unholy leagued. Sylvester. 

RENEGE:  To revoke. [R.] 

RENERVE:  To nerve again; to give new vigor to; to reinvigorate. 

RENEW:  To make new spiritually; to regenerate. Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Rom. xii. 2. 

RENEW:  To become new, or as new; to grow or begin again. 

RENEWABILITY:  The quality or state of being renewable. [R.] 

RENEWABLE:  Capable of being renewed; as, a lease renewable at pleasure. Swift. 

RENEWAL:  The act of renewing, or the state of being renewed; as, the renewal of a treaty. 

RENEWEDLY:  Again; once more. [U.S.] 

RENEWEDNESS:  The state of being renewed. 

RENEWER:  One who, or that which, renews. 

RENEYE:  To deney; to reject; to renounce. [Obs.] For he made every man reneye his law. Chaucer. 

RENIDIFICATION:  The act of rebuilding a nest. 

RENIFORM:  Having the form or shape of a kidney; as, a reniform mineral; a reniform leaf.  RENITENCE; RENITENCY Re*ni"tence, Re*ni"ten*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. rénitence.]  The state or quality of being renitent; resistance; reluctance. Sterne. We find a renitency in ourselves to ascribe life and irritability to the cold and motionless fibers of plants. E. Darwin. 

RENNE:  To plunder; -- only in the phrase "to rape and renne." See under Rap, v. t., to snatch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENNE:  To run. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENNER:  A runner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENNET:  A name of many different kinds of apples. Cf. Reinette. Mortimer. 

RENNET:  The inner, or mucous, membrance of the fourth stomach of the calf, or other young ruminant; also, an infusion or preparation of it, used for coagulating milk. [Written also runnet.] Cheese rennet. (Bot.) See under Cheese.  -- Rennet ferment (Physiol. Chem.), a ferment, present in rennet and in variable quantity in the gastric juice of most animals, which has the power of curdling milk. The ferment presumably acts by changing the casein of milk from a soluble to an insoluble form.  -- Rennet stomach (Anat.), the fourth stomach, or abomasum, of ruminants. 

RENNETED:  Provided or treated with rennet. [R.] "Pressed milk renneted." Chapman. 

RENNETING:  Same as 1st Rennet. 

RENNING:  See 2d Rennet. [Obs.] Asses' milk is holden for to be thickest, and therefore they use it instead of renning, to turn milk. Holland. 

RENOMEE:  Renown. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENOUNCE:  To disclaim having a card of (the suit led) by playing a card of another suit. To renounce probate (Law), to decline to act as the executor of a will. Mozley & W.  Syn.  -- To cast off; disavow; disown; disclaim; deny; abjure; recant; abandon; forsake; quit; forego; resign; relinquish; give up; abdicate.  -- Renounce, Abjure, Recant.  -- To renounce is to make an affirmative declaration of abandonment. To abjure is to renounce with, or as with, the solemnity of an oath. To recant is to renounce or abjure some proposition previously affirmed and maintained. From Thebes my birth I own; . . . since no disgrace Can force me to renounce the honor of my race. Dryden. Either to die the death, or to abjure Forever the society of man. Shak. Ease would recant Vows made in pain, as violent and void. Milton. 

RENOUNCE:  To decline formally, as an executor or a person entitled to letters of administration, to take out probate or letters. Dryden died without a will, and his widow having renounced, his son Charles administered on June 10. W. D. Christie. 

RENOUNCE:  Act of renouncing. 

RENOUNCEMENT:  The act of disclaiming or rejecting; renunciation. Shak. 

RENOUNCER:  One who renounces. 

RENOVATE:  To make over again; to restore to freshness or vigor; to renew. All nature feels the reniovating force Of winter. Thomson. 

RENOVATION:  The act or process of renovating; the state of being renovated or renewed. Thomson. There is something inexpressibly pleasing in the annual renovation of the world. Rabbler. 

RENOVATOR:  One who, or that which, renovates. Foster. 

RENOVEL:  To renew; to renovate. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENOVELANCE:  Renewal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENOWME:  Renown. [Obs.] The glory and renowme of the ancectors. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

RENOWMED:  Renowned. [Obs.] 

RENOWN:  To make famous; to give renown to. [Obs.] For joi to hear me so renown his son. Chapman. The bard whom pilfered pastorals renown. Pope. 

RENOWNED:  Famous; celebrated for great achievements, for distinguished qualities, or for grandeur; eminent; as, a renowned king. "Some renowned metropolis with glistering spires." Milton. These were the renouwned of the congregation. Num. i. 61.  Syn.  -- Famous; famed; distinguished; noted; eminent; celebrated; remarkable; wonderful. See Famous. 

RENOWNEDLY:  With renown. 

RENOWNER:  One who gives renown. [R.] 

RENOWNFUL:  Having great renown; famous. "Renownful Scipio." Marston. 

RENOWNLESS:  Without renown; inglorius. 

RENSSELAERITE:  A soft, compact variety of talc,, being an altered pyroxene. It is often worked in a lathe into inkstands and other articles. 

RENT:  To rant. [R. & Obs.] Hudibras. 

RENT:  imp. & p. p. of Rend. 

RENT:  To tear. See Rend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RENT:  A certain periodical profit, whether in money, provisions, chattels, or labor, issuing out of lands and tenements in payment for the use; commonly, a certain pecuniary sum agreed upon between a tenant and his landlord, paid at fixed intervals by the lessee to the lessor, for the use of land or its appendages; as, rent for a farm, a house, a park, etc.  Note: The term rent is also popularly applied to compensation for the use of certain personal chattles, as a piano, a sewing machine, etc. Black rent. See Blackmail, 3.  -- Forehand rent, rent which is paid in advance; foregift.  -- Rent arrear, rent in arrears; unpaid rent. Blackstone.  -- Rent charge (Law), a rent reserved on a conveyance of land in fee simple, or granted out of lands by deed; -- so called because, by a covenant or clause in the deed of conveyance, the land is charged with a distress for the payment of it, Bouvier.  -- Rent roll, a list or account of rents or income; a rental.  -- Rent seck (Law), a rent reserved by deed, but without any clause of distress; barren rent. A power of distress was made incident to rent seck by Statue 4 George II. c. 28.  -- Rent service (Eng. Law), rent reserved out of land held by fealty or other corporeal service; -- so called from such service being incident to it.  -- White rent, a quitrent when paid in silver; -- opposed to black rent. 

RENT:  To be leased, or let for rent; as, an estate rents for five hundred dollars a year. 

RENTABLE:  Capable of being rented, or suitable for renting. 

RENTAGE:  Rent. [Obs.] 

RENTE:  In France, interest payable by government on indebtedness; the bonds, shares, stocks, etc.,, which represent government indebtedness. 

RENTER:  One who rents or leases an estate; -- usually said of a lessee or tenant. 

RENTERER:  One who renters. 

RENTIER:  One who has a fixed income, as from lands, stocks, or the like. 

RENUMERATE:  To recount. 

RENUNCIATION:  Formal declination to take out letters of administration, or to assume an office, privilege, or right.  Syn.  -- Renouncement; disownment; disavowal; disavowment; disclaimer; rejection; abjuration; recantation; denial; abandonment; relinquishment. 

RENUNCIATORY:  Pertaining to renunciation; containing or declaring a renunciation; as, renunciatory vows. 

RENVERSE:  To reverse. [Obs.] Whose shield he bears renverst. Spenser.  RENVERSE; RENVERSE Ren*verse", or; Ren`ver`sé", a. Etym: [F. renversé, p. p. ] (Her.)  Reversed; set with the head downward; turned contrary to the natural position. 

RENVERSEMENT:  A reversing. [Obs.] 

RENVOY:  To send back. [Obs.] "Not dismissing or renvoying her." Bacon. 

RENVOY:  A sending back. [Obs.] 

REOBTAIN:  To obtain again. 

REOBTAINABLE:  That may be reobtained. 

REOCCUPY:  To occupy again. 

REOMETER:  Same as Rheometer. 

REOPEN:  To open again. 

REOPPOSE:  To oppose again. 

REORDAIN:  To ordain again, as when the first ordination is considered defective. Bp. Burnet. 

REORDER:  To order a second time. 

REORDINATION:  A second ordination. 

REORGANIZATION:  The act of reorganizing; a reorganized existence; as, reorganization of the troops. 

REORGANIZE:  To organize again or anew; as, to reorganize a society or an army. 

REORIENT:  Rising again. [R.] The life reorient out of dust. Tennyson. 

REOSTAT:  See Rheostat. 

REOTROPE:  See Rheotrope. 

REP:  A fabric made of silk or wool, or of silk and wool, and having a transversely corded or ribbed surface. 

REP:  Formed with a surface closely corded, or ribbed transversely; - - applied to textile fabrics of silk or wool; as, rep silk. 

REPACE:  To pace again; to walk over again in a contrary direction. 

REPACIFY:  To pacify again. 

REPACK:  To pack a second time or anew; as, to repack beef; to repack a trunk. 

REPACKER:  One who repacks. 

REPAGANIZE:  To paganize anew; to bring back to paganism. 

REPAID:  imp. & p. p. of Repay. 

REPAINT:  To paint anew or again; as, to repaint a house; to repaint the ground of a picture. 

REPAIRABLE:  Reparable. Gauden. 

REPAIRER:  One who, or that which, repairs, restores, or makes amends. 

REPAIRMENT:  Act of repairing. 

REPAND:  Having a slightly undulating margin; -- said of leaves. 

REPARABILITY:  The quality or state of being reparable. 

REPARABLE:  Capable of being repaired, restored to a sound or good state, or made good; restorable; as, a reparable injury. 

REPARABLY:  In a reparable manner. 

REPARATIVE:  Repairing, or tending to repair. Jer. Taylor. 

REPARATIVE:  That which repairs. Sir H. Wotton. 

REPAREL:  A change of apparel; a second or different suit. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 

REPARTEE:  A smart, ready, and witty reply. Cupid was as bad as he; Hear but the youngster's repartee. Prior.  Syn.  -- Retort; reply. See Retort. 

REPARTEE:  To make smart and witty replies. [R.] Prior. 

REPARTIMIENTO:  A partition or distribution, especially of slaves; also, an assessment of taxes. W. Irving. 

REPARTOTION:  Another, or an additional, separation into parts. 

REPASS:  To pass again; to pass or travel over in the opposite direction; to pass a second time; as, to repass a bridge or a river; to repass the sea. 

REPASS:  To pass or go back; to move back; as, troops passing and repassing before our eyes. 

REPASSAGE:  The act of repassing; passage back. Hakluyt. 

REPASSANT:  Counterpassant. 

REPAST:  To supply food to; to feast; to take food. [Obs.] "Repast them with my blood." Shak. He then, also, as before, left arbitrary the dieting and repasting of our minds. Milton. 

REPASTER:  One who takes a repast. [Obs.] 

REPASTURE:  Food; entertainment. [Obs.] Food for his rage, repasture for his den. Shak. 

REPATRIATE:  To restore to one's own country. 

REPATRIATION:  Restoration to one's country. 

REPAYABLE:  Capable of being, or proper to be , repaid; due; as, a loan repayable in ten days; services repayable in kind. 

REPEALABILITY:  The quality or state of being repealable. 

REPEALABLE:  Capable of being repealed.  -- Re*peal"a*ble*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Revocable; abrogable; voidable; reversible. 

REPEALER:  One who repeals; one who seeks a repeal; specifically, an advocate for the repeal of the Articles of Union between Great Britain and Ireland. 

REPEALMENT:  Recall, as from banishment. [Obs.] 

REPEAT:  To repay or refund (an excess received). To repeat one's self, to do or say what one has already done or said.  -- To repeat signals, to make the same signals again; specifically, to communicate, by repeating them, the signals shown at headquarters.  Syn.  -- To reiterate; iterate; renew; recite; relate; rehearse; recapitulate. See Reiterate. 

REPEAT:  A mark, or series of dots, placed before and after, or often only at the end of, a passage to be repeated in performance. 

REPEATEDLY:  More than once; again and again; indefinitely. 

REPEATER:  One who, or that which, repeats. Specifically: (a) A watch with a striking apparatus which, upon pressure of a spring, will indicate the time, usually in hours and quarters. (b) A repeating firearm. (c) (Teleg.) An instrument for resending a telegraphic message automatically at an intermediate point. (d) A person who votes more than once at an election. [U.S.] (e) See Circulating decimal, under Decimal. (f) (Naut.) A pennant used to indicate that a certain flag in a hoist of signal is duplicated. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

REPEATING:  Doing the same thing over again; accomplishing a given result many times in succession; as, a repeating firearm; a repeating watch. Repeating circle. See the Note under Circle, n., 3.  -- Repeating decimal (Arith.), a circulating decimal. See under Decimal.  -- Repeating firearm, a firearm that may be discharged many times in quick succession; especially: (a) A form of firearm so constructed that by the action of the mechanism the charges are successively introduced from a chamber containing them into the breech of the barrel, and fired. (b) A form in which the charges are held in, and discharged from, a revolving chamber at the breech of the barrel. See Revolver, and Magazine gun, under Magazine.  -- Repeating instruments (Astron. & Surv.), instruments for observing angles, as a circle, theodolite, etc., so constructed that the angle may be measured several times in succession, and different, but successive and contiguous, portions of the graduated limb, before reading off the aggregate result, which aggregate, divided by the number of measurements, gives the angle, freed in a measure from errors of eccentricity and graduation.  -- Repeating watch. See Repeater (a) 

REPEDATION:  A stepping or going back. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

REPEL:  To act with force in opposition to force impressed; to exercise repulsion.  REPELLENCE; REPELLENCY Re*pel"lence, Re*pel"len*cy, n.  The principle of repulsion; the quality or capacity of repelling; repulsion. 

REPELLENT:  Driving back; able or tending to repel. 

REPELLENT:  A remedy to repel from a tumefied part the fluids which render it tumid. Dunglison.  3. A kind of waterproof cloth. Knight. 

REPELLER:  One who, or that which, repels. 

REPENT:  Prostrate and rooting; -- said of stems. Gray.  2. (Zoöl.)  Same as Reptant. 

REPENT:  To be sorry for sin as morally evil, and to seek forgiveness; to cease to love and practice sin. Except ye repent, ye shall likewise perish. Luke xii. 3. 

REPENTANCE:  The act of repenting, or the state of being penitent; sorrow for what one has done or omitted to do; especially, contrition for sin. Chaucer. Godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation. 2. Cor. vii. 20. Repentance is a change of mind, or a conversion from sin to God. Hammond. Repentance is the relinquishment of any practice from the conviction that it has offended God. Sorrow, fear, and anxiety are properly not parts, but adjuncts, of repentance; yet they are too closely connected with it to be easily separated. Rambler.  Syn.  -- Contrition; regret; penitence; contriteness; compunction. See Contrition. 

REPENTANT:  One who repents, especially one who repents of sin; a penitent. 

REPENTANTLY:  In a repentant manner. 

REPENTER:  One who repents. 

REPENTINGLY:  With repentance; penitently. 

REPENTLESS:  Unrepentant. [R.] 

REPEOPLE:  To people anew. 

REPERCEPTION:  The act of perceiving again; a repeated perception of the same object. No external praise can give me such a glow as my own solitary reperception and ratification of what is fine. Keats. 

REPERCUSS:  To drive or beat back; hence, to reflect; to reverberate. Perceiving all the subjacent country, . . . to repercuss such a light as I could hardly look against. Evelyn. 

REPERCUSSION:  Rapid reiteration of the same sound.  3. (Med.)  The subsidence of a tumor or eruption by the action of a repellent. Dunglison.  4. (Obstetrics)  In a vaginal examination, the act of imparting through the uterine wall with the finger a shock to the fetus, so that it bounds upward, and falls back again against the examining finger. 

REPERCUSSIVE:  A repellent. [Obs.] Bacon. 

REPERTITIOUS:  Found; gained by finding. [Obs.] 

REPERTOIRE:  A list of drams, operas, pieces, parts, etc., which a company or a person has rehearsed and is prepared to perform. 

REPERUSAL:  A second or repeated perusal. 

REPERUSE:  To peruse again. Ld. Lytton. 

REPETEND:  That part of a circulating decimal which recurs continually, ad infinitum: -- sometimes indicated by a dot over the first and last repetend is 283. 

REPETITION:  The act of repeating, singing,  4. (Rhet.)  Reiteration, or repeating the same word, or the same sense in different words, for the purpose of making a deeper impression on the audience.  5. (Astron. & Surv.)  The measurement of an angle by successive observations with a repeating instrument.  Syn.  -- Iteration; rehearsal. See Tautology.  REPETITIONAL; REPETITIONARY Rep`e*ti"tion*al. Rep`e*ti"tion*a*ry, a.  Of the nature of, or containing, repetition. [R.] 

REPETITIONER:  One who repeats. [Obs.] 

REPETITIOUS:  Repeating; containing repetition. [U.S.] Dr. T. Dwight. 

REPETITIVE:  Containing repetition; repeating. [R.] 

REPETITOR:  A private instructor. 

REPINE:  Vexation; mortification. [Obs.] Shak. 

REPINER:  One who repines. 

REPININGLY:  With repening or murmuring. 

REPKIE:  Any edible sea urchin. [Alaska] 

REPLACEABILITY:  The quality, state, or degree of being replaceable. 

REPLACEABLE:  Capable of being replaced (by), or of being exchanged (for); as, the hydrogen of acids is replaceable by metals or by basic radicals. 

REPLACEMENT:  The removal of an edge or an angle by one or more planes. 

REPLAIT:  To plait or fold again; to fold, as one part over another, again and again. 

REPLANT:  To plant again. 

REPLANTABLE:  That may be planted again. 

REPLANTATION:  The act of planting again; a replanting. [R.] Hallywell. 

REPLEAD:  To plead again. 

REPLEADER:  A second pleading, or course of pleadings; also, the right of pleading again. Whenever a repleader is granted, the pleadings must begin de novo. Blackstone. 

REPLENISH:  To recover former fullness. [Obs.] The humors will not replenish so soon. Bacon. 

REPLENISHER:  One who replenishes. 

REPLETE:  Filled again; completely filled; full; charged; abounding. "His words replete with guile." Milton. When he of wine was replet at his feast. Chaucer. In heads repiete with thoughts of other men. Cowper. 

REPLETE:  To fill completely, or to satiety. [R.] 

REPLETENESS:  The state of being replete. 

REPLETION:  Fullness of blood; plethora. 

REPLETIVE:  Tending to make replete; filling.  -- Re*ple"tive*ly, adv. 

REPLETORY:  Repletive. [R.] 

REPLEVIABLE:  Capable of being replevied. 

REPLEVIN:  A personal action which lies to recover possession of goods and chattle wrongfully taken or detained. Originally, it was a remedy peculiar to cases for wrongful distress, but it may generally now be brought in all cases of wrongful taking or detention. Bouvier.  2. The writ by which goods and chattles are replevied. 

REPLEVIN:  To replevy. 

REPLEVISABLE:  Repleviable. Sir M. Hale. 

REPLEVY:  To take or get back, by a writ for that purpose (goods and chattels wrongfuly taken or detained), upon giving security to try the right to them in a suit at law, and, if that should be determined against the plaintiff, to return the property replevied.  2. (Old Eng.LAw)  To bail. Spenser. 

REPLEVY:  Replevin. Mozley & W. 

REPLICA:  A copy of a work of art, as of a picture or satue, made by the maker of the original.  2. (Mus.)  Repetition. 

REPLICANT:  One who replies. 

REPLICATE:  To reply. [Obs.]  REPLICATE; REPLICATED Rep"li*cate (l-kt), Rep"li*ca`ted (-k`td), a. Etym: [L. replicatus, p. p. of replicare. See Reply.]  Folded over or backward; folded back upon itself; as, a replicate leaf or petal; a replicate margin of a shell. 

REPLICATION:  The reply of the plaintiff, in matters of fact, to the defendant's plea.  3. Return or repercussion, as of sound; echo. To hear the replication of your sounds. Shak.  4. A repetition; a copy. Farrar.  Syn.  -- Answer; response; reply; rejoinder. 

REPLIER:  One who replies. Bacon. 

REPLUM:  The framework of some pods, as the cress, which remains after the valves drop off. Gray. 

REPLY:  To answer a defendant's plea.  3. Figuratively, to do something in return for something done; as, to reply to a signal; to reply to the fire of a battery.  Syn.  -- To answer; respond; rejoin. 

REPLY:  To return for an answer. Milton. Lords, vouchsafe To give me hearing what I shall reply. Shak. 

REPLY:  That which is said, written, or done in answer to what is said, written, or done by another; an answer; a response.  Syn.  -- Answer; rejoinder; response.  -- Reply, Rejoinder, Answer. A reply is a distinct response to a formal question or attack in speech or writing. A rejoinder is a second reply (a reply to a reply) in a protracted discussion or controversy. The word answer is used in two senses, namely (1), in the most general sense of a mere response; as, the answer to a question; or (2), in the sense of a decisive and satisfactory confutation of an adversary's argument, as when we speak of a triumphant answer to the speech or accusations of an opponent. Here the noun corresponds to a frequent use of the verb, as when we say. "This will answer (i.e., fully meet) the end in view;" "It answers the purpose." 

REPLYER:  See Replier. Bacon. 

REPOLISH:  To polish again. 

REPONE:  To replace. R. Baillie. 

REPOPULATION:  The act of repeopling; act of furnishing with a population anew. 

REPORT:  To return or present as the result of an examination or consideration of any matter officially referred; as, the committee reported the bill witth amendments, or reported a new bill, or reported the results of an inquiry.  7. To make minutes of, as a speech, or the doings of a public body; to write down from the lips of a speaker.  8. To write an account of for publication, as in a newspaper; as, to report a public celebration or a horse race.  9. To make a statement of the conduct of, especially in an unfavorable sense; as, to report a servant to his employer. To be reported, or To be reported of, to be spoken of; to be mentioned, whether favorably or unfavorably. Acts xvi. 2.  -- To report one's self, to betake one's self, as to a superior or one to whom service is due, and be in readiness to receive orders or do service.  Syn.  -- To relate; narrate; tell; recite; describe. 

REPORTABLE:  Capable or admitting of being reported. 

REPORTAGE:  SAme as Report. [Obs.] 

REPORTER:  One who reports. Specifically: (a) An officer or person who makees authorized statements of law proceedings and decisions, or of legislative debates. (b) One who reports speeches, the proceedings of public meetings, news, etc., for the newspapers. Of our tales judge and reportour. Chaucer. 

REPORTINGLY:  By report or common fame. 

REPORTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a reporter or reporters; as, the reportorial staff of a newspaper. 

REPOSANCE:  Reliance. [Obs.] John Hall. 

REPOSE:  A rest; a pause.  4. (Fine Arts)  That harmony or moderation which affords rest for the eue; -- opposed to the scattering and division of a subject into too many unconnected parts, and also to anything which is overstrained; as, a painting may want repose. Angle of repose (Physics), the inclination of a plane at which a body placed on the plane would remain at rest, or if in motion would roll or side down with uniform velocity; the angle at which the various kinds of earth will stand when abandoned to themselves.  Syn.  -- Rest; recumbency; reclination; ease; quiet; quietness; tranquillity; peace. 

REPOSED:  Composed; calm; tranquil; at rest. Bacon.  -- Re*pos"ed*ly (r, adv.  -- Re*pos"ed*ness, n. 

REPOSEFUL:  Full of repose; quiet. 

REPOSER:  One who reposes. 

REPOSIT:  To cause to rest or stay; to lay away; to lodge, as for safety or preservation; to place; to store. Others reposit their young in holes. Derham. 

REPOSITION:  The act of repositing; a laying up. 

REPOSITOR:  An instrument employed for replacing a displaced organ or part. 

REPOSITORY:  A place where things are or may be reposited, or laid up, for safety or preservation; a depository. Locke. 

REPOSSESS:  To possess again; as, to repossess the land. Pope. To repossess one's self of (something), to acquire again (something lost). 

REPOSSESSION:  The act or the state of possessing again. 

REPOSURE:  Rest; quiet. In the reposure of most soft content. Marston. 

REPOUR:  To pour again. 

REPOUSSAGE:  Art or process of hammering out or pressing thin metal from the reverse side: (1) in producing repoussé work; (2) in leveling up any part of an etched plate that has been worked so as to cause a depression. 

REPOUSSE:  Repoussé work. Repoussé work, ornamentation of metal in relief by pressing or hammering on the reverse side. 

REPREFE:  Reproof. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REPREHEND:  To reprove or reprimand with a view of restraining, checking, or preventing; to make charge of fault against; to disapprove of; to chide; to blame; to censure. Chaucer. Aristippus being reprehended of luxury by one that was not rich, for that he gave six crowns for a small fish. Bacon. Pardon me for reprehending thee. Shak. In which satire human vices, ignorance, and errors . . . are severely reprehended. Dryden. I nor advise nor reprehend the choice. J. Philips. 

REPREHENDER:  One who reprehends. 

REPREHENSIBLE:  Worthy of reprehension; culpable; censurable; blamable.  -- Rep`re*hen"si*ble*ness, n.  -- Rep`re*hen"si*bly, adv. 

REPREHENSION:  Reproof; censure; blame; disapproval. This Basilius took as though his mistress had given him a secret reprehension that he had not showed more gratefulness to Dorus. Sir P. Sidney.  Syn.  -- Censure; reproof; reprimand. See Admonition. 

REPREHENSIVE:  Containing reprehension; conveying reproof. South.  -- Rep`re*hen"sive*ly, adv. 

REPREHENSORY:  Containing reproof; reprehensive; as, reprehensory complaint. Johnson.  RE-PRESENT Re`-pre*sent" (r`pr-znt"), v. t.  To present again; as, to re-present the points of an argument. 

REPRESENT:  To form or image again in consciousness, as an object of cognition or apprehension (something which was originally apprehended by direct presentation). See Presentative,3. The general capability of knowledge necessarily requires that, besides the power of evoking out of unconsciousness one portion of our retained knowledge in preference to another, we posses the faculty of representing in consciousness what is thus evoked . . . This representative Faculty is Imagination or Phantasy. Sir. W. Hamilton. 

REPRESENTABLE:  Capable of being represented. 

REPRESENTANCE:  Representation; likeness. [Obs.] Donne. 

REPRESENTANT:  Appearing or acting for another; representing. 

REPRESENTANT:  A representative. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

REPRESENTATION:  The act of re-presenting, or the state of being presented again; a new presentation; as, re-presentation of facts previously stated. 

REPRESENTATIONARY:  Implying representation; representative. [R.] 

REPRESENTATIVE:  Giving, or existing as, a transcript of what was originally presentative knowledge; as, representative faculties; representative knowledge. See Presentative, 3 and Represent, 8. 

REPRESENTATIVE:  One who represents, or stands in the place of, another.  Note: The executor or administrator is ordinarily held to be the representative of a deceased person, and is sometimes called the legal representative, or the personal representative. The heir is sometimes called the real representative of his deceased ancestor. The heirs and executors or administrators of a deceased person are sometimes compendiously described as his real and personal representatives. Wharton. Burrill.  4. A member of the lower or popular house in a State legislature, or in the national Congress. [U.S.]  5. (Nat.Hist.) (a) That which presents the full character of the type of a group. (b) A species or variety which, in any region, takes the place of a similar one in another region. 

REPRESENTATIVELY:  In a representative manner; vicariously. 

REPRESENTATIVENESS:  The quality or state of being representative. Dr. Burnet observes, that every thought is attended with conssciousness and representativeness. Spectator. 

REPRESENTMENT:  Representation. [Obs.] 

REPRESS:  To press again. 

REPRESS:  The act of repressing. [Obs.] 

REPRESSER:  One who, or that which, represses. 

REPRESSIBLE:  Capable of being repressed. 

REPRESSIVE:  Having power, or tending, to repress; as, repressive acts or measures.  -- Re*press"ive*ly, adv. 

REPREVABLE:  Reprovable. [Obs.] 

REPREVE:  To reprove. [Obs.] "Repreve him of his vice." Chaucer. 

REPREVE:  Reproof. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REPRIEFE:  Repreve. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REPRIEVAL:  Reprieve. Overbury. 

REPRIMAND:  Severe or formal reproof; reprehension, private or public. Goldsmith gave his landlady a sharp reprimand for her treatment of him. Macaulay. 

REPRIMANDER:  One who reprimands. 

REPRIMER:  A machine or implement for applying fresh primers to spent cartridge shells, so that the shells be used again. 

REPRINT:  A second or a new impression or edition of any printed work; specifically, the publication in one country of a work previously published in another. 

REPRINTER:  One who reprints. 

REPRISE:  Deductions and duties paid yearly out of a manor and lands, as rent charge, rent seck, pensions, annuities, and the like. [Written also reprizes.] Burrill.  3. A ship recaptured from an enemy or from a pirate. 

REPRISTINATE:  To restore to an original state. [R.] Shedd. 

REPRISTINATION:  Restoration to an original state; renewal of purity. [R.] R. Browning. 

REPRIVE:  To take back or away. [Obs.] Spenser. 

REPRIVE:  To reprieve. [Obs.] Howell. 

REPRIZE:  See Reprise. [Obs.] Spenser. 

REPRIZES:  See Repise, n., 2. 

REPROACHER:  One who reproaches. 

REPROACHLESS:  Being without reproach. 

REPROBACY:  Reprobation. [R.] 

REPROBANCE:  Reprobation. [Obs.] Shak. 

REPROBATE:  One morally abandoned and lost. I acknowledge myself for a reprobate, a villain, a traitor to the king. Sir W. Raleigh. 

REPROBATENESS:  The state of being reprobate. 

REPROBATER:  One who reprobates. 

REPROBATION:  The predestination of a certain number of the human race as reprobates, or objects of condemnation and punishment. 

REPROBATIONER:  One who believes in reprobation. See Reprobation,2. South. 

REPROBATIVE:  Of or pertaining to reprobation; expressing reprobation. 

REPROBATORY:  Reprobative. 

REPRODUCE:  To produce again. Especially: (a) To bring forward again; as, to reproduce a witness; to reproduce charges; to reproduce a play. (b) To cause to exist again. Those colors are unchangeable, and whenever all those rays with those their colors are mixed again they reproduce the same white light as before. Sir I. Newton.  (c) To produce again, by generation or the like; to cause the existence of (something of the same class, kind, or nature as another thing); to generate or beget, as offspring; as, to reproduce a rose; some animals are reproduced by gemmation. (d) To make an image or other representation of; to portray; to cause to exist in the memory or imagination; to make a copy of; as, to reproduce a person's features in marble, or on canvas; to reproduce a design. 

REPRODUCER:  One who, or that which, reproduces. Burke. 

REPRODUCTION:  the process by which plants and animals give rise to offspring.  Note: There are two distinct methods of reproduction; viz.: asexual reproduction (agamogenesis) and sexual reproduction (gamogenesis). In both cases the new individual is developed from detached portions of the parent organism. In asexual reproduction (gemmation, fission, etc.), the detached portions of the organism develop into new individuals without the intervention of other living matter. In sexual reproduction, the detached portion, which is always a single cell, called the female germ cell, is acted upon by another portion of living matter, the male germ cell, usually from another organism, and in the fusion of the two (impregnation) a new cell is formed, from the development of which arises a new individual.  2. That which is reproduced. 

REPRODUCTIVE:  Tending, or pertaining, to reproduction; employed in reproduction. Lyell. 

REPRODUCTORY:  Reproductive. 

REPROVABLE:  Worthy of reproof or censure. Jer. Taylor.  Syn.  -- Blamable; blameworthy; censurable; reprehensible; culpable; rebukable. --Re*prov"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Re*prov"a*bly, adv. 

REPROVAL:  Reproof. Sir P. Sidney. 

REPROVER:  One who, or that which, reproves. 

REPROVINGLY:  In a reproving manner. 

REPRUNE:  To prune again or anew. Yet soon reprunes her wing to soar anew. Young.  REP-SILVER Rep"-sil`ver (rp"sl`vr), n. Etym: [See Reap.]  Money anciently paid by servile tenants to their lord, in lieu of the customary service of reaping his corn or grain. 

REPTANT:  Same as Repent.  2. (Zoöl.)  Creeping; crawling; -- said of reptiles, worms, etc. 

REPTANTIA:  A divisiom of gastropods; the Pectinibranchiata. 

REPTATION:  The act of creeping. 

REPTATORY:  Creeping. 

REPTILE:  An animal that crawls, or moves on its belly, as snakes,, or by means of small, short legs, as lizards, and the like. An inadvertent step may crush the snail That crawls at evening in the public path; But he that has humanity, forewarned, Will tread aside, and let the reptile live. Cowper.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the Reptilia, or one of the Amphibia.  Note: The amphibians were formerly classed with Reptilia, and are still popularly called reptiles, though much more closely allied to the fishes.  3. A groveling or very mean person. 

REPTILIA:  A class of air-breathing oviparous vertebrates, usually covered with scales or bony plates. The heart generally has two auricles and one ventricle. The development of the young is the same as that of birds.  Note: It is nearly related in many respects to Aves, or birds. The principal existing orders are Testidunata or Chelonia (turtles), Crocodilia, Lacertilla (lizards), Ophidia (serpents), and Rhynchocephala; the chief extinct orders are Dinosauria, Theremorpha, Mosasauria, Pterosauria, Plesiosauria, Ichtyosauria. 

REPTILIAN:  Belonging to the reptiles. Reptilian age (Geol.), that part of geological time comprising the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous periods, and distinguished as that era in which the class of reptiles attained its highest expansion; -- called also the Secondary or Mezozoic age. 

REPTILIAN:  One of the Reptilia; a reptile. 

REPUBLICAN:  A member of the Republican party.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) The American cliff swallow. The cliff swallows build their nests side by side, many together. (b) A South African weaver bird (Philetærus socius). These weaver birds build many nests together, under a large rooflike shelter, which they make of straw. Red republican. See under Red. 

REPUBLICANIZE:  To change, as a state, into a republic; to republican principles; as, France was republicanized; to republicanize the rising generation. D. Ramsay. 

REPUBLICATE:  To make public again; to republish. [Obs.] 

REPUBLICATION:  A second publication, or a new publication of something before published, as of a former will, of a volume already published, or the like; specifically, the publication in one country of a work first issued in another; a reprint. If there be many testaments, the last overthrows all the former; but the republication of a former will revokes one of a later date, and establishes the first. Blackstone. 

REPUBLISH:  To publish anew; specifically, to publish in one country (a work first published in another); also, to revive (a will) by re Subsecquent to the purchase or contract, the devisor republished his will. Blackstone. 

REPUBLISHER:  One who republishes. 

REPUDIABLE:  Admitting of repudiation; fit or proper to be put away. 

REPUDIATION:  The act of repudiating, or the state of being repuddiated; as, the repudiation of a doctrine, a wife, a debt, etc. 

REPUDIATION:  One who favors repudiation, especially of a public debt. 

REPUDIATOR:  One who repudiates. 

REPUGN:  To fight against; to oppose; to resist. [R.] Stubbornly he did repugn the truth. Shak. 

REPUGNABLE:  Capable of being repugned or resisted. [R.] Sir T. North.  REPUGNANCE; REPUGNANCY Re*pug"nance, Re*pug"nan*cy, n. Etym: [F. répugnance, L. repugnantia.]  The state or condition of being repugnant; opposition; contrariety; especially, a strong instinctive antagonism; aversion; reluctance; unwillingness, as of mind, passions, principles, qualities, and the like. That which causes us to lose most of our time is the repugnance which we naturally have to labor. Dryden. Let the foes quietly cut their throats, Without repugnancy. Shak.  Syn.  -- Aversion; reluctance; unwillingness; dislike; antipathy; hatred; hostility; irreconcilableness; contrariety; inconsistency. See Dislike. 

REPUGNANT:  Disposed to fight against; hostile; at war with; being at variance; contrary; inconsistent; refractory; disobedient; also, distasteful in a high degree; offensive; -- usually followed by to, rarely and less properly by with; as, all rudeness was repugnant to her nature. [His sword] repugnant to command. Shak. There is no breach of a divine law but is more or less repugnant unto the will of the Lawgiver, God himself. Perkins.  Syn.  -- Opposite; opposed; adverse; contrary; inconsistent; irreconcilable; hostile; inimical. 

REPUGNANTLY:  In a repugnant manner. 

REPUGNATE:  To oppose; to fight against. [Obs.] 

REPUGNER:  One who repugns. 

REPULLULATE:  To bud again. Though tares repullulate, there is wheat still left in the field. Howell. 

REPULLULATION:  The act of budding again; the state of having budded again. 

REPULSELESS:  Not capable of being repulsed. 

REPULSER:  One who repulses, or drives back. 

REPULSION:  The power, either inherent or due to some physical action, by which bodies, or the particles of bodies, are made to recede from each other, or to resist each other's nearer approach; as, molecular repulsion; electrical repulsion. 

REPULSORY:  Repulsive; driving back. 

REPURCHASE:  To buy back or again; to regain by purchase. Sir M. Hale. 

REPURCHASE:  The act of repurchasing. 

REPURIFY:  To purify again. 

REPUTABLE:  Having, or worthy of, good repute; held in esteem; honorable; praiseworthy; as, a reputable man or character; reputable conduct. In the article of danger, it is as reputable to elude an enemy as defeat one. Broome.  Syn.  -- Respectable; creditable; estimable.  -- Rep"u ta*ble*ness, n.  -- Rep"u*ta*bly, adv. 

REPUTATION:  The character imputed to a person in the community in which he lives. It is admissible in evidence when he puts his character in issue, or when such reputation is otherwise part of the issue of a case.  3. Specifically: Good reputation; favorable regard; public esteem; general credit; good name. I see my reputation is at stake. Shak. The security of his reputation or good name. Blackstone.  4. Account; value. [Obs.] Chaucer. [/Christ] made himself of no reputation. Phil. ii. 7.  Syn.  -- Credit; repute; regard; estimation; esteem; honor; fame. See the Note under Character. 

REPUTATIVELY:  By repute. 

REPUTE:  To hold in thought; to account; to estimate; to hold; to think; to reckon. Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your sight Job xviii. 3. The king your father was reputed for A prince most prudent. Shak. 

REPUTEDLY:  In common opinion or estimation; by repute. 

REPUTELESS:  Not having good repute; disreputable; disgraceful; inglorius. [R.] Shak. 

REQUERE:  To require. [Obs.] 

REQUESTER:  One who requests; a petitioner. 

REQUICKEN:  To quicken anew; to reanimate; to give new life to. Shak. 

REQUIEM:  A mass said or sung for the repose of a departed soul. We should profane the service of the dead To sing a requiem and such rest to her As to peace-parted souls. Shak.  2. Any grand musical composition, performed in honor of a deceased person.  3. Rest; quiet; peace. [Obs.] Else had I an eternal requiem kept, And in the arms of peace forever slept. Sandys. 

REQUIETORY:  A sepulcher. [Obs.] Weever. 

REQUIN:  The man-eater, or white shark (Carcharodon carcharias); -- so called on account of its causing requiems to be sung. 

REQUIRABLE:  Capable of being required; proper to be required. Sir M. Hale. 

REQUIRER:  One who requires. 

REQUISITE:  That which is required, or is necessary; something indispensable. God, on his part, has declared the requisites on ours; what we must do to obtain blessings, is the great business of us all to know. Wake. 

REQUISITE:  Required by the nature of things, or by circumstances; All truth requisite for men to know. Milton.  Syn.  -- Necessary; needful; indispensable; essential.  -- Req"ui*site*ly, adv.  -- Req"ui*site*ness, n. 

REQUISITION:  A formal demand made by one state or government upon another for the surrender or extradition of a fugitive from justice. Kent. (b) (Law) A notarial demand of a debt. Wharton. (c) (Mil.) A demand by the invader upon the people of an invaded country for supplies, as of provision, forage, transportation, etc. Farrow. (d) A formal application by one officer to another for things needed in the public service; as, a requisition for clothing, troops, or money.  2. That which is required by authority; especially, a quota of supplies or necessaries.  3. A written or normal call; an invitation; a summons; as, a reqisition for a public meeting. [Eng.] 

REQUISITIONIST:  One who makes or signs a requisition. 

REQUISITIVE:  Expressing or implying demand. [R.] Harris. 

REQUISITIVE:  One who, or that which, makes requisition; a requisitionist. [R.] 

REQUISITOR:  One who makes reqisition; esp., one authorized by a requisition to investigate facts. 

REQUISITORY:  Sought for; demanded. [R.] Summary on Du Bartas (1621). 

REQUITABLE:  That may be requited. 

REQUITAL:  The act of requiting; also, that which requites; return, good or bad, for anything done; in a good sense, compensation; recompense; as, the requital of services; in a bad sense, retaliation, or punishment; as, the requital of evil deeds. No merit their aversion can remove, Nor ill requital can efface their love. Waller.  Syn.  -- Compensation; recompense; remuneration; reward; satisfaction; payment; retribution; retaliation; reprisal; punishment. 

REQUITE:  To repay; in a good sense, to recompense; to return (an equivalent) in good; to reward; in a bad sense, to retaliate; to return (evil) for evil; to punish. He can requite thee; for he knows the charma That call fame on such gentle acts as these. Milton. Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite it with thy hand. Ps. x. 14.  Syn.  -- To repay; reward; pay; compensate; remunerate; satisfy; recompense; punish; revenge. 

REQUITEMENT:  Requital [Obs.] E. Hall. 

REQUITER:  One who requites. 

REREBRACE:  Armor for the upper part of the arm. Fairholt. 

REREDEMAIN:  A backward stroke. [Obs.] 

REREFIEF:  A fief held of a superior feudatory; a fief held by an under tenant. Blackstone. 

REREIGN:  To reign again.  RE-REITERATE Re`-re*it"er*ate (r`r-t"r-t), v. t.  To reiterate many times. [R.] "My re-reiterated wish." Tennyson. 

REREMOUSE:  A rearmouse.  RE-RESOLVE Re`-re*solve" (r`r-zlv"), v. t. & i.  To resolve again. Resolves, and re-resolves, then dies the same. Young. 

REREWARD:  The rear quard of an army. [Obs.] 

RES:  A thing; the particular thing; a matter; a point. Res gestæ Etym: [L., things done] (Law), the facts which form the environment of a litigated issue. Wharton.  -- Res judicata [L.] (Law), a thing adjudicated; a matter no longer open to controversy. 

RESAIL:  To sail again; also, to sail back, as to a former port. 

RESALE:  A sale at second hand, or at retail; also, a second sale. Bacon. 

RESALGAR:  Realgar. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RESALUTE:  To salute again. 

RESAW:  To saw again; specifically, to saw a balk, or a timber, which has already been squared, into dimension lumber, as joists, boards, etc. 

RESCAT:  To ransom; to release; to rescue. [Obs.] Howell. 

RESCAT:  Ransom; release. [Obs.] 

RESCINDABLE:  Capable of being rescinded. 

RESCINDMENT:  The act of rescinding; rescission. 

RESCISSION:  The act of rescinding, abrogating, annulling, or vacating; as, the rescission of a law, decree, or judgment. 

RESCISSORY:  Tending to rescind; rescinding. To pass a general act rescissory (as it was called), annulling all the Parliaments that had been held since the year 1633. Bp. Burnet. 

RESCOUS:  See Rescue,2. [Obs.] 

RESCOWE:  To rescue. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RESCRIPT:  The answer of an emperor when formallyconsulted by particular persons on some difficult question; hence, an edict or decree. In their rescripts and other ordinances, the Roman emperors spoke in the plural number. Hare.  2. (R.C.Ch.)  The official written answer of the pope upon a question of canon law, or morals.  3. A counterpart. Bouvier. 

RESCRIPTION:  A writing back; the answering of a letter. Loveday. 

RESCRIPTIVE:  Pertaining to, or answering the purpose of, a rescript; hence, deciding; settling; determining. 

RESCRIPTIVELY:  By rescript. Burke. 

RESCUABLE:  That may be rescued. 

RESCUE:  To free or deliver from any confinement, violence, danger, or evil; to liberate from actual restraint; to remove or withdraw from a state of exposure to evil; as, to rescue a prisoner from the enemy; to rescue seamen from destruction. Had I been seized by a hungry lion, I would have been a breakfast to the best, Rather than have false Proteus rescue me. Shak.  Syn.  -- To retake; recapture; free; deliver; liberate; release; save. 

RESCUELESS:  Without rescue or release. 

RESCUER:  One who rescues. 

RESCUSSEE:  The party in whose favor a rescue is made. Crabb. 

RESCUSSOR:  One who makes an unlawful rescue; a rescuer. Burril. 

RESE:  To shake; to quake; to tremble. [Obs.] "It made all the gates for to rese." Chaucer.  RE-SEARCH Re-search" (r-srch"), v. t. Etym: [Pref. re- + search.]  To search again; to examine anew. 

RESEARCH:  Diligent inquiry or examination in seeking facts or principles; laborius or continued search after truth; as, researches of human wisdom. The dearest interests of parties have frequently been staked on the results of the researches of antiquaries. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Investigation; examination; inquiry; scrutiny. 

RESEARCH:  To search or examine with continued care; to seek diligently. 

RESEARCHER:  One who researches. 

RESEARCHFUL:  Making researches; inquisitive. [R.] Coleridge. 

RESEAU:  A system of lines forming small squares of standard size, which is photographed, by a separate exposure, on the same plate with star images to facilitate measurements, detect changes of the film, etc.  (b) In lace, a ground or foundation of regular meshes, like network. 

RESECT:  To cut or pare off; to remove by cutting. 

RESECTION:  The removal of the articular extremity of a bone, or of the ends of the bones in a false articulation. 

RESEDA:  A genus of plants, the type of which is mignonette.  2. A grayish green color, like that of the flowers of mignonette. 

RESEEK:  To seek again. J. Barlow. 

RESEIZE:  To take possession of, as lands and tenements which have been disseized. The sheriff is commanded to reseize the land and all the chattels thereon, and keep the same in his custody till the arrival of the justices of assize. Blackstone. 

RESEIZER:  The taking of lands into the hands of the king where a general livery, or oustre le main, was formerly mis-sued, contrary to the form and order of law. 

RESEIZURE:  A second seizure; the act of seizing again. Bacon. 

RESELL:  To sell again; to sell what has been bought or sold; to retail. 

RESEMBLABLE:  Admitting of being compared; like. [Obs.] Gower. 

RESEMBLANT:  Having or exhibiting resemblance; resembling. [R.] Gower. 

RESEMBLER:  One who resembles. 

RESEMBLINGLY:  So as to resemble; with resemblance or likeness. 

RESEMINATE:  To produce again by means of seed. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne. 

RESEND:  To send on from an intermediate station by means of a repeater. 

RESENTER:  One who resents. Sir H. Wotton. 

RESENTFUL:  Inclined to resent; easily provoked to anger; irritable.  -- Re*sent"ful*ly, adv. 

RESENTIMENT:  Resentment. [Obs.] 

RESENTIVE:  Resentful. [R.] Thomson. 

RESERATE:  To unlock; to open. [Obs.] Boyle. 

RESERVANCE:  Reservation. [R.] 

RESERVATIVE:  Tending to reserve or keep; keeping; reserving. 

RESERVATORY:  A place in which things are reserved or kept. Woodward. 

RESERVE:  A body of troops in the rear of an army drawn up for battle, reserved to support the other lines as occasion may require; a force or body of troops kept for an exigency.  7. (Banking)  Funds kept on hand to meet liabilities. In reserve, in keeping for other or future use; in store; as, he has large quantities of wheat in reserve; he has evidence or arguments in reserve.  -- Reserve air. (Physiol.) Same as Supplemental air, under Supplemental.  Syn.  -- Reservation; retention; limitation; backwardness; reservedness; coldness; restraint; shyness; coyness; modesty.  RESERVE CITY Reserve city. (Banking)  In the national banking system of the United States, any of certain cities in which the national banks are required (U. S. Rev. Stat. sec. 5191) to keep a larger reserve (25 per cent) than the minimum (15 per cent) required of all other banks. The banks in certain of the reserve cities (specifically called central reserve cities) are required to keep their reserve on hand in cash; banks in other reserve cities may keep half of their reserve as deposits in these banks (U. S. Rev. Stat. sec. 5195). 

RESERVEE:  One to, or for, whom anything is reserved; -- contrasted with reservor. 

RESERVER:  One who reserves. 

RESERVIST:  A member of a reserve force of soldiers or militia. [Eng.] 

RESERVOIR:  A small intercellular space, often containing Receiving reservoir (Water Works), a principal reservoir into which an aqueduct or rising main delivers water, and from which a distributing reservoir draws its supply. 

RESERVOR:  One who reserves; a reserver. 

RESET:  To set again; as, to reset type; to reset copy; to reset a diamond. 

RESET:  That which is reset; matter set up again. 

RESET:  The receiving of stolen goods, or harboring an outlaw. Jamieson. 

RESET:  To harbor or secrete; to hide, as stolen goods or a criminal. We shall see if an English hound is to harbor and reset the Southrons here. Sir. W. Scott. 

RESETTER:  One who receives or conceals, as stolen goods or criminal. 

RESETTER:  One who resets, or sets again. 

RESETTLE:  To settle again. Swift. 

RESETTLE:  To settle again, or a second time. 

RESETTLEMENT:  Act of settling again, or state of being settled again; as, the resettlement of lees. The resettlement of my discomposed soul. Norris. 

RESHAPE:  To shape again. 

RESHIP:  To ship again; to put on board of a vessel a second time; to send on a second voyage; as, to reship bonded merchandise. 

RESHIP:  To engage one's self again for service on board of a vessel after having been discharged. 

RESHIPMENT:  The act of reshipping; also, that which is reshippped. 

RESHIPPER:  One who reships. 

RESIANCE:  Residence; abode. [Obs.] Bacon. 

RESIANT:  Resident; present in a place. [Obs.] In which her kingdom's throne is chiefly resiant. Spenser. 

RESIANT:  A resident. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

RESIDENCE:  The residing of an incumbent on his benefice; -- opposed to nonresidence.  4. The place where anything rests permanently. But when a king sets himself to bandy against the highest court and residence of all his regal power, he then, . . . fights against his own majesty and kingship. Milton.  5. Subsidence, as of a sediment. [Obs.] Bacon.  6. That which falls to the bottom of liquors; sediment; also, refuse; residuum. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  Syn.  -- Domiciliation; sojourn; stay; abode; home; dwelling; habitation; domicile; mansion. 

RESIDENCIA:  In Spanish countries, a court or trial held, sometimes as long as six months, by a newly elected official, as the governor of a province, to examine into the conduct of a predecessor. 

RESIDENTER:  A resident. [Obs. or Colloq.] 

RESIDENTIARY:  Having residence; as, a canon residentary; a residentiary guardian. Dr. H. More. 

RESIDENTIARYSHIP:  The office or condition of a residentiary. 

RESIDENTSHIP:  The office or condition of a resident. 

RESIDER:  One who resides in a place. 

RESIDUAL:  Pertaining to a residue; remaining after a part is taken. Residual air (Physiol.), that portion of air contained in the lungs which can not be expelled even by the most violent expiratory effort. It amounts to from 75 to 100 cubic inches. Cf. Supplemental air, under Supplemental.  -- Residual error. (Mensuration) See Error, 6 (b).  -- Residual figure (Geom.), the figure which remains after a less figure has been taken from a greater one.  -- Residual magnetism (Physics), remanent magnetism. See under Remanent.  -- Residual product, a by product, as cotton waste from a cotton mill, coke and coal tar from gas works, etc.  -- Residual quantity (Alg.), a binomial quantity the two parts of which are connected by the negative sign, as a-b.  -- Residual root (Alg.), the root of a residual quantity, as sq. root(a-b). 

RESIDUARY:  Consisting of residue; as, residuary matter; pertaining to the residue, or part remaining; as, the residuary advantage of an estate. Ayliffe. Residuary clause (Law), that part of the testator's will in which the residue of his estate is disposed of.  -- Residuary devise (Law), the person to whom the residue of real estate is devised by a will.  -- Residuary legatee (Law), the person to whom the residue of personal estate is bequeathed. 

RESIDUE:  That part of a testeator's estate wwhich is not disposed of in his will by particular and special legacies and devises, and which remains after payment of debts and legacies.  3. (Chem.)  That which remains of a molecule after the removal of a portion of its constituents; hence, an atom or group regarded as a portion of a molecule; -- used as nearly equivalent to radical, but in a more general sense.  Note: The term radical is sometimes restricted to groups containing carbon, the term residue being applied to the others.  4. (Theory of Numbers)  Any positive or negative number that differs from a given number by a multiple of a given modulus; thus, if 7 is the modulus, and 9 the given number, the numbers -5, 2, 16, 23, etc., are residues.  Syn.  -- Rest; remainder; remnant; balance; residuum; remains; leavings; relics. 

RESIDUOUS:  Remaining; residual. Landor. 

RESIDUUM:  That which is left after any process of separation or purification; that which remains after certain specified deductions are made; residue. "I think so," is the whole residuum . . . after evaporating the prodigious pretensions of the zealot demagogue. L. Taylor. 

RESIEGE:  To seat again; to reinstate. [Obs.] Spenser.  RE-SIGN Re-sign" (r-sn"), v. t. Etym: [Pref. re- + sign.]  To affix one's signature to, a second time; to sign again. 

RESIGN:  Resignation. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 

RESIGNED:  Submissive; yielding; not disposed to resist or murmur. A firm, yet cautious mind; Sincere, thought prudent; constant, yet resigned. Pope. 

RESIGNEDLY:  With submission. 

RESIGNEE:  One to whom anything is resigned, or in whose favor a resignation is made. 

RESIGNER:  One who resigns. 

RESIGNMENT:  The act of resigning. 

RESILE:  To start back; to recoil; to recede from a purpose. J. Ellis.  RESILIENCE; RESILIENCY Re*sil"i*ence, Re*sil"i*en*cy, n.  1. The act of resiling, springing back, or rebounding; as, the resilience of a ball or of sound.  2. (Mech. & Engyn.)  The mechanical work required to strain an elastic body, as a deflected beam, stretched spring, etc., to the elastic limit; also, the work performed by the body in recovering from such strain. 

RESILIENT:  Leaping back; rebounding; recoling. 

RESILITION:  Resilience. [R.] 

RESIN:  Any one of a class of yellowish brown solid inflammable substances, of vegetable origin, which are nonconductors of electricity, have a vitreous fracture, and are soluble in ether, alcohol, and essential oils, but not in water; specif., pine resin (see Rosin).  Note: Resins exude from trees in combination with essential oils, gums, etc., and in a liquid or semiliquid state. They are composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and are supposed to be formed by the oxidation of the essential oils. Copal, mastic, quaiacum, and colophony or pine resin, are some of them. When mixed with gum, they form the gum resins, like asafetida and gamboge; mixed with essential oils, they frorm balsams, or oleoresins. Highgate resin (Min.), a fossil resin resembling copal, occuring in blue clay at Highgate, near London.  -- Resin bush (Bot.), a low composite shrub (Euryops speciosissimus) of South Africa, having smooth pinnately parted leaves and abounding in resin. 

RESINACEOUS:  Having the quality of resin; resinous. 

RESINATE:  Any one of the salts the resinic acids. 

RESINIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, resin; as, the resinic acids. 

RESINIFEROUS:  Yielding resin; as, a resiniferous tree or vessel. 

RESINIFORM:  Having the form of resin.  RESINO-ELECTRIC Res`in*o-e*lec"tric (---lk"trk), a. (Elec.)  Containing or exhibiting resinous electricity. 

RESINOID:  Somewhat like resin. 

RESINOUS:  Of or pertaining to resin; of the nature of resin; resembling or obtained from resin. Resinous electricity (Elec.), electricity which is exited by rubbing bodies of the resinous kind. See Negative electricity, under Negative. 

RESINOUSLY:  By means, or in the manner, of resin. 

RESINOUSNESS:  The quality of being resinous. 

RESINY:  Like resin; resinous. 

RESIPISCENCE:  Wisdom derived from severe experience; hence, repentance. [R.] Bp. Montagu. 

RESIST:  To make opposition. Shak. 

RESIST:  A substance used to prevent a color or mordant from fixing on those parts to which it has been applied, either by acting machanically in preventing the color, etc., from reaching the cloth, or chemically in changing the color so as to render it incapable of fixing itself in the fibers.. The pastes prepared for this purpose are called resist pastes. F. C. Calvert. 

RESISTANCE:  The quality of not yielding to force or external pressure; that power of a body which acts in opposition to the impulse or pressure of another, or which prevents the effect of another power; as, the resistance of the air to a body passing through it; the resistance of a target to projectiles.  3. A means or method of resisting; that which resists. Unfold to us some warlike resistance. Shak.  4. (Elec.)  A certain hindrance or opposition to the passage of an electrical current or discharge offered by conducting bodies. It bears an inverse relation to the conductivity, -- good conductors having a small resistance, while poor conductors or insulators have a very high resistance. The unit of resistance is the ohm. Resistance box (Elec.), a rheostat consisting of a box or case containing a number of resistance coils of standard values so arranged that they can be combined in various ways to afford more or less resistance.  -- Resistance coil (Elec.), a coil of wire introduced into an electric circuit to increase the resistance.  -- Solid of least resistance (Mech.), a solid of such a form as to experience, in moving in a fluid, less resistance than any other solid having the same base, height, and volume.  RESISTANCE FRAME Re*sist"ance frame`. (Elec.)  A rheostat consisting of an open frame on which are stretched spirals of wire. Being freely exposed to the air, they radiate heat rapidly. 

RESISTANT:  Making resistance; resisting.  -- n.  One who, or that which, resists. Bp. Pearson. 

RESISTER:  One who resists. 

RESISTFUL:  Making much resistance. 

RESISTIBLE:  Capable of being resisted; as, a resistible force. Sir M. Hale.  -- Re*sist"i*ble*ness, n.  -- Re*sist"i*bly, adv. 

RESISTING:  Making resistance; opposing; as, a resisting medium.  -- Re*sist"ing ly, adv. 

RESISTIVE:  Serving to resist. B. Jonsosn. 

RESOLUBLE:  Admitting of being resolved; resolvable; as, bodies resoluble by fire. Boyle.  -- Res"o*lu*ble*ness, n. 

RESOLUTELY:  In a resolute manner; with fixed purpose; boldly; firmly; steadily; with perseverance. Some.. facts he examines, some he resolutely denies. Swift. 

RESOLUTENESS:  The quality of being resolute. 

RESOLUTION:  The act or process of solving; solution; as, the resolution of an equation or problem.  7. (Med.)  A breaking up, disappearance; or termination, as of a fever, a tumor, or the like.  8. (Mus.)  The passing of a dissonant into a consonant chord by the rising or falling of the note which makes the discord. Joint resolution. See under Joint, a.  -- Resolution of a force or motion (Mech.), the separation of a single force or motion into two or more which have different directions, and, taken together, are an equivalent for the single one; -- the opposite of Ant: composition of a force.  -- Resolution of a nebula (Astron.), the exhibition of it to the eye by a telescope of such power as to show it to be composed of small stars.  Syn.  -- Decision; analysis; separation; disentanglement; dissolution; resolvedness; resoluteness; firmness; constancy; perseverance; steadfastness; fortitude; boldness; purpose; resolve. See Decision. 

RESOLUTIONER:  One who makes a resolution; one who joins with others in a declaration or resolution; specifically, one of a party in the Scottish Church in the 17th century. He was sequestrated afterwards as a Resolutioner. Sir W. Scott. 

RESOLUTIONIST:  One who makes a resolution. 

RESOLUTIVE:  Serving to dissolve or relax. [R.] Johnson. 

RESOLUTORY:  Resolutive. [R.] 

RESOLVABILITY:  The quality or condition of being resolvable; resolvableness. 

RESOLVABLE:  Admitting of being resolved; admitting separation into constituent parts, or reduction to first principles; admitting solution or explanation; as, resolvable compounds; resolvable ideas or difficulties. 

RESOLVABLENESS:  The quality of being resolvable; resolvability. 

RESOLVE:  To solve, as a problem, by enumerating the several things to be done, in order to obtain what is required; to find the answer to, or the result of. Hutton.  8. (Med.)  To dispere or scatter; to discuss, as an inflammation or a tumor.  9. (Mus.)  To let the tones (as of a discord) follow their several tendencies, resulting in a concord.  10. To relax; to lay at ease. [Obs.] B. Jonson. To resolve a nebula.(Astron.) See Resolution of a nebula, under Resolution.  Syn.  -- To solve; analyze; unravel; disentangle. 

RESOLVED:  Having a fixed purpose; determined; resolute; -- usually placed after its noun; as, a man resolved to be rich. That makes him a resolved enemy. Jer. Taylor. I am resolved she shall not settle here. Fielding. 

RESOLVEDNESS:  Fixedness of purpose; firmness; resolution. Dr. H. More. 

RESOLVENT:  Having power to resolve; causing solution; solvent. 

RESOLVENT:  That which has power to disperse inflammatory or other tumors; a discutient; anything which aids the absorption of effused products. Coxe.  3. (Math.)  An equation upon whose solution the solution of a given pproblem depends. 

RESONANCE:  A prolongation or increase of any sound, eithar by reflection, as in a cavern or apartment the walls of which are not distant enough to return a distinct echo, or by the production of vibrations in other bodies, as a sounding-board, or the bodies of musical instruments. Pulmonary resonance (Med.), the sound heard on percussing over the lungs.  -- Vocal resonance (Med.), the sound transmitted to the ear when auscultation is made while the patient is speaking. 

RESONANCY:  Resonance. 

RESONANT:  Returning, or capable of returning, sound; fitted to resound; resounding; echoing back. Through every hour of the golden morning, the streets were resonant with female parties of young and old. De Quincey. 

RESONANTLY:  In a reasonant manner. 

RESONATOR:  Anything which resounds; specifically, a vessel in the form of a cylinder open at one end, or a hollow ball of brass with two apertures, so contrived as to greatly intensify a musical tone by its resonance. It is used for the study and analysis of complex sounds. 

RESORB:  To swallow up. Now lifted by the tide, and now resorbed. Young. 

RESORBENT:  Swallowing up. Wodhull. 

RESORCIN:  A colorless crystalline substance of the phenol series, obtained by melting certain resins, as galbanum, asafetida, etc., with caustic potash. It is also produced artificially and used in making certain dyestuffs, as phthaleïn, fluoresceïn, and eosin. 

RESORCYLIC:  Of, or pertaining to, or producing, resorcin; as, resorcylic acid. 

RESORPTION:  The act of resorbing; also, the act of absorbing again; reabsorption. 

RESORT:  Active power or movement; spring. [A Gallicism] [Obs.] Some . . . know the resorts and falls of business that can not sink into the main of it. Bacon. 

RESORTER:  One who resorts; a frequenter. 

RESOUN:  Reason. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RESOUN:  To resound. [Obs.] Chaucer.  RE-SOUND Re-sound" (r*sound"), v. t. & i. Etym: [Pref. re- + sound.]  To sound again or anew. 

RESOUND:  Return of sound; echo. Beaumont. 

RESOURCE:  Pecuniary means; funds; money, or any property that can be converted into supplies; available means or capabilities of any kind. Scotland by no means escaped the fate ordained for every country which is connected, but not incorporated, with another country of greater resources. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Expedient; resort; means; contrivance. 

RESOURCEFUL:  Full of resources. 

RESOURCELESS:  Destitute of resources. Burke.  -- Re*source"less*ness, n. R. Browning. 

RESOW:  To sow again. Bacon. 

RESOWN:  To resound. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RESPECT:  An expression of respect of deference; regards; as, to send one's respects to another.  4. Reputation; repute. [Obs.] Many of the best respect in Rome. Shak.  5. Relation; reference; regard. They believed but one Supreme Deity, which, with respect to the various benefits men received from him, had several titles. Tillotson.  4. Particular; point regarded; point of view; as, in this respect; in any respect; in all respects. Everything which is imperfect, as the world must be acknowledged in many respects. Tillotson. In one respect I'll be thy assistant. Shak.  7. Consideration; motive; interest. [Obs.] "Whatever secret respects were likely to move them." Hooker. To the publik good Private respects must yield. Milton. In respect, in comparison. [Obs.] Shak.  -- In respect of. (a) In comparison with. [Obs.] Shak. (b) As to; in regard to. [Archaic] "Monsters in respect of their bodies." Bp. Wilkins. "In respect of these matters." Jowett. (Thucyd. ) -- In, or With, respect to, in relation to; with regard to; as respects. Tillotson.  -- To have respect of persons, to regard persons with partiality or undue bias, especially on account of friendship, power, wealth, etc. "It is not good to have respect of persons in judgment." Prov. xxiv. 23.  Syn.  -- Deference; attention; regard; consideration; estimation. See Deference. 

RESPECTABILITY:  The state or quality of being respectable; the state or quality which deserves or commands respect. 

RESPECTANT:  Placed so as to face one another; -- said of animals. 

RESPECTER:  One who respects. A respecter of persons, one who regards or judges with partiality. Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons. Acts x. 34. 

RESPECTFUL:  Marked or characterized by respect; as, respectful deportment. With humble joi and with respectful fear. Prior. -- Re*spect"ful*ly, adv.  -- Re*spect"ful*ness, n. 

RESPECTING:  With regard or relation to; regarding; concerning; as, respecting his conduct there is but one opinion. 

RESPECTION:  The act of respecting; respect; regard. [Obs.] Without difference or respection of persons. Tyndale. 

RESPECTLESS:  Having no respect; without regard; regardless. Rather than again Endure, respectless, their so moving cChapman. -- Re*spect"less*ness, n. [R.] Shelton. 

RESPELL:  To spell again. 

RESPERSE:  To sprinkle; to scatter. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

RESPERSION:  The act of sprinkling or scattering. [Obs.] 

RESPIRABILITY:  The quality or state of being respirable; respirableness. 

RESPIRABLE:  Suitable for being breathed; adapted for respiration.  -- Re*spir"a*ble*ness, n. 

RESPIRATION:  The act of resping or breathing; the act of taking in and giving out air; the aggregate of those processes bu which oxygen is introduced into the system, and carbon dioxide, or carbonic acid, removed.  Note: Respiration in the higher animals is divided into: (a) Internal respiration, or the interchange of oxygen and carbonic acid between the cells of the body and the bathing them, which in one sense is a process of nutrition. (b) External respiration, or the gaseous interchange taking place in the special respiratory organs, the lungs. This constitutes respiration proper. Gamgee. In the respiration of plants oxygen is likewise absorbed and carbonic acid exhaled, but in the light this process is obscured by another process which goes on with more vigor, in which the plant inhales and absorbs carbonic acid and exhales free oxygen. 

RESPIRATIONAL:  Of or pertaining to respiration; as, respirational difficulties. 

RESPIRATIVE:  Of or pertaining to respiration; as, respirative organs. 

RESPIRATOR:  A divice of gauze or wire, covering the mouth or nose, to prevent the inhalation of noxious substances, as dust or smoke. Being warmed by the breath, it tempers cold air passing through it, and may also be used for the inhalation of medicated vapors. 

RESPIRATORY:  Of or pertaining to respiration; serving for respiration; as, the respiratory organs; respiratory nerves; the respiratory function; respiratory changes. Respiratory foods. (Physiol.) See 2d Note under Food, n., 1.  -- Respiratory tree (Zoöl.), the branched internal gill of certain holothurians. 

RESPIRE:  To breathe; to inhale air into the lungs, and exhale it from them, successively, for the purpose of maintaining the vitality of the blood. 

RESPITE:  To give or grant a respite to. Specifically: (a) To delay or postpone; to put off. (b) To keep back from execution; to reprieve. Forty days longer we do respite you. Shak.  (c) To relieve by a pause or interval of rest. "To respite his day labor with repast." Milton. 

RESPITELESS:  Without respite. Baxter.  RESPLENDENCE; RESPLENDENCY Re*splen"dence, Re*splen"den*cy, n. Etym: [L. resplendentia.]  The quality or state of being resplendent; brilliant luster; vivid brightness; splendor. Son! thou in whom my glory I behold In full resplendence, heir of all my might. Milton. The resplendency of his own almighty goodness. Dr. J. Scott. 

RESPLENDENT:  Shining with brilliant luster; very bright.  -- Re*splen"dent*ly, adv. With royal arras and resplendent gold. Spenser. 

RESPLENDISHANT:  Resplendent; brilliant. [R. & Obs.] Fabyan. 

RESPLENDISHING:  Resplendent. [Obs.] 

RESPLIT:  To split again. 

RESPOND:  A short anthem sung at intervals during the reading of a chapter.  3. (Arch.)  A half pier or pillar attached to a wall to support an arch. Oxf. Gloss.  RESPONDENCE; RESPONDENCY Re*spond"ence, Re*spond"en*cy, n.  The act of responding; the state of being respondent; an answering. A. Chalmers. The angelical soft trembling voice made To the instruments divine respondence meet. Spenser. 

RESPONDENT:  Disposed or expected to respond; answering; according; corresponding. Wealth respondent to payment and contributions. Bacon. 

RESPONDENT:  One who responds. It corresponds in general to defendant. Specifically: (a) (Law) One who answers in certain suits or proceedings, generally those which are not according to the course of the common law, as in equity and admiralty causes, in petitions for partition, and the like; -- distinquished from appellant. (b) One who maintains a thesis in reply, and whose province it is to refute objections, or overthrow arguments; -- distinguished from opponent. I. Watts. 

RESPONDENTIA:  A loan upon goods laden on board a ship. It differs from bottomry, which is a loan on the ship itself. Bouvier. 

RESPONSAL:  Answerable. [Obs.] 

RESPONSELESS:  Giving no response. 

RESPONSION:  The first university examination; -- called also little go. See under Little, a. 

RESPONSORIAL:  Responsory; antiphonal. J. H. Newman. 

RESPONSORY:  Containing or making answer; answering. Johnson. 

RESPONSORY:  An antiphonary; a response book. 

RESSALDAR:  In the Anglo-Indian army, a native commander of a ressala. 

REST:  To arrest. [Obs.] 

REST:  A projection from the right side of the cuirass, serving to support the lance. Their visors closed, their lances in the rest. Dryden.  6. A place where one may rest, either temporarily, as in an inn, or permanently, as, in an abode. "Halfway houses and travelers' rests." J. H. Newman. In dust our final rest, and native home. Milton. Ye are not as yet come to the rest and to the inheritance which the Lord your God giveth you. Deut. xii. 9.  7. (Pros.)  A short pause in reading verse; a cæsura.  8. The striking of a balance at regular intervals in a running account. "An account is said to be taken with annual or semiannual rests." Abbott.  9. A set or game at tennis. [Obs.]  10. (Mus.)  Silence in music or in one of its parts; the name of the character that stands for such silence. They are named as notes are, whole, half, quarter,etc. Rest house, an empty house for the accomodation of travelers; a caravansary. [India] -- To set, or To set up, one's rest, to have a settled determination; -- from an old game of cards, when one so expressed his intention to stand or rest upon his hand. [Obs.] Shak. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Cessation; pause; intermission; stop; stay; repose; slumber; quiet; ease; quietness; stillness; tranquillity; peacefulness; pease.  -- Rest, Repose. Rest is a ceasing from labor or exertion; repose is a mode of resting which gives relief and refreshment after toil and labor. The words are commonly interchangeable. 

REST:  A surplus held as a reserved fund by a bank to equalize its dividends, etc.; in the Bank of England, the balance of assets above liabilities. [Eng.]  Syn.  -- Remainder; overplus; surplus; remnant; residue; reserve; others. 

REST:  To be left; to remain; to continue to be. The affairs of men rest still uncertain. Shak. 

RESTAGNANT:  Stagnant; motionless. [Obs.] Boyle. 

RESTAGNATE:  To stagnate; to cease to flow. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

RESTAGNATION:  Stagnation. [Obs.] 

RESTANT:  Persistent. 

RESTATE:  To state anew. Palfrey. 

RESTAURANT:  An eating house. 

RESTAURATE:  To restore. [Obs.] 

RESTAURATEUR:  The keeper of an eathing house or a restaurant. 

RESTAURATION:  Restoration. [Obs.] Cower.  REST CURE Rest cure. (Med.)  Treatment of severe nervous disorder, as neurasthenia, by rest and isolation with systematic feeding and the use of massage and electricity. 

RESTFUL:  A European leguminous plant (Ononis arvensis) with long, tough roots. 

RESTIFF:  Restive. [Obs.] 

RESTIFF:  A restive or stubborn horse. [Obs.] 

RESTIFFNESS:  Restiveness. [Obs.] 

RESTIFORM:  Formed like a rope; -- applied especially to several ropelike bundles or masses of fibers on the dorsal side of the medulla oblongata. 

RESTILY:  In a resty manner. [Obs.] 

RESTINCTION:  Act of quenching or extingishing. [Obs.] 

RESTINESS:  The quality or state of being resty; sluggishness. [Obs.] The snake by restiness and lying still all winter. Holland. 

RESTING:  a. & n. from Rest, v. t. & i. Resting spore (Bot.), a spore in certain orders of algæ, which remains quiescent, retaining its vitality, for long periods of time. C. E. Bessey. 

RESTINGUISH:  To quench or extinguish. [Obs.] R. Field. 

RESTITUTE:  To restore to a former state. [R.] Dyer. 

RESTITUTE:  That which is restored or offered in place of something; a substitute. [R.] 

RESTITUTION:  The act of returning to, or recovering, a former state; as, the restitution of an elastic body.  4. (Med.)  The movement of rotetion which usually occurs in childbirth after the head has been delivered, and which causes the latter to point towards the side to which it was directed at the beginning of labor.  Syn.  -- Restoration; return; indemnification; reparation; compensation; amends; remuneration. 

RESTITUTOR:  One who makes restitution. [R]. 

RESTIVE:  Unwilling to go on; obstinate in refusing to move forward; stubborn; drawing back. Restive or resty, drawing back, instead of going forward, as some horses do. E. Philips (1658). The people remarked with awe and wonder that the beasts which were to drag him [Abraham Holmes] to the gallows became restive, and went back. Macaulay.  2. Inactive; sluggish. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  3. Impatient under coercion, chastisement, or opposition; refractory.  4. Uneasy; restless; averse to standing still; fidgeting about; -- applied especially to horses. Trench.  -- Rest"ive, adv.  -- Rest"ive*ness, n. 

RESTORABLE:  Admitting of being restored; capable of being reclaimed; as, restorable land. Swift.  -- Re*stor"a*ble*ness, n. 

RESTORAL:  Restoration. [Obs.] Barrow. 

RESTORATIONER:  A Restorationist. 

RESTORATIONISM:  The belief or doctrines of the Restorationists. 

RESTORATIONIST:  One who believes in a temporary future punishment and a final restoration of all to the favor and presence of God; a Universalist. 

RESTORATIVE:  Of or pertaining to restoration; having power to restore. Destroys life's enemy, Hunger, with sweet restorative delight. Milton. 

RESTORATIVE:  Something which serves to restore; especially, a restorative medicine. Arbuthnot. 

RESTORATIVELY:  In a restorative manner. 

RESTORATOR:  A restaurateur. 

RESTORATORY:  Restorative. [R.]  RE-STORE Re-store" (r*str"), v. t. Etym: [Pref. re- + store.]  To store again; as, the goods taken out were re-stored. 

RESTORE:  To bring back to its former state; to bring back from a state of ruin, decay, disease, or the like; to repair; to renew; to recover. "To restore and to build Jerusalem." Dan. ix. 25. Our fortune restored after the severest afflictions. Prior. And his hand was restored whole as the other. Mark iii. 5.  2. To give or bring back, as that which has been lost., or taken away; to bring back to the owner; to replace. Now therefore restore the man his wife. Gen. xx. 7. Loss of Eden, till one greater man Restore us, and regain the blissful seat. Milton. The father banished virtue shall restore. Dryden.  3. To renew; to reëstablish; as, to restore harmony among those who are variance.  4. To give in place of, or as satisfaction for. He shall restore five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep. Ex. xxii. 1.  5. To make good; to make amends for. But if the while I think on thee, dear friend, All losses are restored, and sorrows end. Shak.  6. (Fine Arts) (a) To bring back from a state of injury or decay, or from a changed condition; as, to restore a painting, statue, etc. (b) To form a picture or model of, as of something lost or mutilated; as, to restore a ruined building, city, or the like.  Syn.  -- To return; replace; refund; repay; reinstate; rebuild; reëstablish; renew; repair; revive; recover; heal; cure. 

RESTORE:  Restoration. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RESTOREMENT:  Restoration. [Obs.] 

RESTORER:  One who, or that which, restores. 

RESTRAINABLE:  Capable of being restrained; controllable. Sir T. Browne. 

RESTRAINEDLY:  With restraint. Hammond. 

RESTRAINER:  One who, or that which, restrains. 

RESTRAINMENT:  The act of restraining. 

RESTRENGTHEN:  To strengthen again; to fortify anew. 

RESTRICT:  Restricted. [Obs.] 

RESTRICT:  To restrain within bounds; to limit; to confine; as, to restrict worlds to a particular meaning; to restrict a patient to a certain diet.  Syn.  -- To limit; bound; circumscribe; restrain; repress; curb; coerce. 

RESTRICTIONARY:  Restrictive. [R.] 

RESTRINGE:  To confine; to contract; to stringe. [Obs.] 

RESTRINGENCY:  Quality or state of being restringent; astringency. [Obs.] Sir W. Petty. 

RESTRINGENT:  Restringing; astringent; styptic. [Obs.] -- n.  A restringent medicine. [Obs.] Harvey. 

RESTRIVE:  To strive anew. 

RESTY:  Disposed to rest; indisposed toexercton; sluggish; also, restive. [Obs.] Burton. Where the master is too resty or too rich to say his own prayers. Milton. 

RESUBJECTION:  A second subjection. 

RESUBLIME:  To sublime again. Newton.  -- Re*sub`li*ma"tion, n. 

RESUDATION:  Act of sweating again. 

RESULTANCE:  The act of resulting; that which results; a result. Donne. 

RESULTANT:  Resulting or issuing from a combination; existing or following as a result or consequence. Resultant force or motion (Mech.), a force which is the result of two or more forces acting conjointly, or a motion which is the result of two or more motions combined. See Composition of forces, under Composition. 

RESULTANT:  That which results. Specifically: (a) (Mech.) A reultant force or motion. (b) (Math.) An eliminant. The resultant of homogeneous general functions of n variables is that function of their coefficients which, equaled to zero, expresses in the simplest terms the condition of the possibility of their existence. Sylvester. 

RESULTATE:  A result. [Obs.] "The resultate of their counsil." BAcon. 

RESULTFUL:  HAving results or effects. 

RESULTIVE:  Resultant. [Obs.] Fuller. 

RESULTLESS:  Being without result; as, resultless investigations. 

RESUMABLE:  Capable of, or admitting of, being resumed. Sir M. HAle. 

RESUME:  A summing up; a condensed statement; an abridgment or brief recapitulation. The exellent little résumé thereof in Dr. Landsborough's book. C. Kingsley. 

RESUMMON:  To summon again. 

RESUMMONS:  A second summons. 

RESUMPTION:  The taking again into the king's hands of such lands or tenements as he had granted to any man on false suggestions or other error. 

RESUMPTIVE:  Taking back; resuming, or tending toward resumption; as, resumptive measures. 

RESUPINATE:  Inverted in position; appearing to be upside down or reversed, as the flowers of the orchis and the leaves of some plants. 

RESUPINATED:  Resupinate. 

RESUPINATION:  The state of luing on the back; the state of being resupinate, or reversed. Our Vitruvius calleth this affection in the eye a resupination of the figure. Sir H. Wotton. 

RESUPINE:  Lying on the back; supine; hence, careless. Sir K. Digby. He spake, and, downward swayed, fell resupine, With his huge neck aslant. Cowper. 

RESUPPLY:  To supply again. 

RESURGENCE:  The act of rising again; resurrection. 

RESURGENT:  Rising again, as from the dead. Coleridge. 

RESURGENT:  One who rises again, as from the dead. [R.] Sydney Smith. 

RESURRECTIONIST:  One who steals bodies from the grave, as for dissection. [Slang] 

RESURRECTIONIZE:  To raise from the dead. [R.] Southey. 

RESURVEY:  To survey again or anew; to review. Shak. 

RESURVEY:  A second or new survey. 

RESUSCITABLE:  Capable of resuscitation; as, resuscitable plants. Boyle. 

RESUSCITANT:  One who, or that which resuscitates. Also used adjectively. 

RESUSCITATE:  Restored to life. [R.] Bp. Gardiner. 

RESUSCITATE:  To revivify; to revive; especially, to recover or restore from apparent death; as, to resuscitate a drowned person; to resuscitate withered plants. 

RESUSCITATE:  To come to life again; to revive. These projects, however often slain, always resuscitate. J. S. Mill. 

RESUSCITATION:  The act of resuscitating, or state of being resuscitated. The subject of resuscitation by his sorceries. Sir W. Scott. 

RESUSCITATIVE:  Tending to resuscitate; reviving; revivifying. 

RESUSCITATOR:  One who, or that which, resuscitates. 

RET:  See Aret. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RET:  To prepare for use, as flax, by separating the fibers from the woody part by process of soaking, macerating, and other treatment. Ure. 

RETABLE:  A shelf behind the altar, for display of lights, vases of wlowers, etc. 

RETAIL:  The sale of commodities in small quantities or parcels; -- opposed to wholesale; sometimes, the sale of commodities at second hand. 

RETAIL:  Done at retail; engaged in retailing commodities; as a retail trade; a retail grocer. 

RETAILER:  One who retails anything; as, a retailer of merchandise; a retailer of gossip. 

RETAILMENT:  The act of retailing. 

RETAINABLE:  Capable of being retained. 

RETAINAL:  The act of retaining; retention. 

RETAINMENT:  The act of retaining; retention. Dr. H. More. 

RETAKER:  One who takes again what has been taken; a recaptor. Kent. 

RETALIATE:  To return the like for; to repay or requite by an act of the same kind; to return evil for (evil). [Now seldom used except in a bad sense.] One ambassador sent word to the duke's son that his visit should be retaliated. Sir T. Herbert. It is unlucky to be obliged to retaliate the injuries of authors, whose works are so soon forgotten that we are in danger of appearing the first aggressors. Swift. 

RETALIATE:  To return like for like; specifically, to return evil for evil; as, to retaliate upon an enemy. 

RETALIATION:  The act of retaliating, or of returning like for like; retribution; now, specifically, the return of evil for evil; e.g., an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. God . . . takes what is done to others as done to himself, and by promise obloges himself to full retaliation. Calamy.  Syn.  -- Requital; reprisal; retribution; punishment. 

RETALIATIVE:  Same as Retaliatory. 

RETALIATORY:  Tending to, or involving, retaliation; retaliative; as retaliatory measures. 

RETARD:  To stay back. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne. 

RETARD:  Retardation; delay. Retard, or Age, of the tide, the interval between the transit of the moon at which a tide originates and the appearance of the tide itself. It is found, in general, that any particular tide is not principally due to the moon's transit immediatelly proceeding, but to a transit which has occured some time before, and which is said to correspond to it. The retard of the tide is thus distinguished from the lunitidal interval. See under Retardation. rHam. Nav. Encyc. 

RETARDATION:  The keeping back of an approaching consonant chord by prolonging one or more tones of a previous chord into the intermediate chord which follows; -- differing from suspension by resolving upwards instead of downwards.  4. The extent to which anything is retarded; the amount of retarding or delay. Retardation of the tide. (a) The lunitidal interval, or the hour angle of the moon at the time of high tide any port; the interval between the transit of the moon and the time of high tide next following. (b) The age of the tide; the retard of the tide. See under Retard, n. 

RETARDATIVE:  Tending, or serving, to retard. 

RETARDER:  One who, or that which, retards. 

RETARDMENT:  The act of retarding; retardation. Cowley. 

RETCH:  To make an effort to vomit; to strain, as in vomiting. [Written also reach.] Beloved Julia, hear me still beseeching! (Here he grew inarticulate with retching.) Byron. 

RETCH:  To care for; to heed; to reck. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RETCHLESS:  Careless; reckless. [Obs.] Dryden. --- Retch"less*ly, adv.  -- Retch"less*ness, n. [Obs.] 

RETE:  A net or network; a plexus; particularly, a network of blood vessels or nerves, or a part resembling a network. 

RETECIOUS:  Resembling network; retiform. 

RETECTION:  Act of disclosing or uncovering something concealed. [Obs.] Boyle. 

RETELL:  To tell again. 

RETENE:  A white crystalline hydrocarbon, polymeric with benzene. It is extracted from pine tar, and is also found in certain fossil resins. 

RETENT:  That which is retained. Hickok. 

RETENTION:  The right of withholding a debt, or of retaining property until a debt due to the person claiming the right be duly paid; a lien. Erskine. Craig. Retention cyst (Med.), a cyst produced by obstruction of a duct leading from a secreting organ and the consequent retention of the natural secretions. 

RETENTIVE:  Having power to retain; as, a retentive memory. Nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron, Can be retentive to the strength of spirit. Shak. 

RETENTIVE:  That which retains or confines; a restraint. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

RETENTIVELY:  In a retentive manner. 

RETENTIVENESS:  The quality of being retentive. 

RETENTIVITY:  The power of retaining; retentive force; as, the retentivity of a magnet. 

RETENTOR:  A muscle which serves to retain an organ or part in place, esp. when retracted. See Illust. of Phylactolemata. 

RETEPORE:  Any one of several species of bryozoans of the genus Retepora. They form delicate calcareous corals, usually composed of thin fenestrated fronds. 

RETEX:  To annual, as orders. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket. 

RETEXTURE:  The act of weaving or forming again. Carlyle. 

RETHOR:  A rhetorician; a careful writer. [Obs.] If a rethor couthe fair endite. Chaucer. 

RETHORYKE:  Rhetoric. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RETIARIUS:  A gladiator armed with a net for entangling his adversary and a trident for despatching him. 

RETIARY:  Any spider which spins webs to catch its prey.  2. A retiarius. 

RETICENCE:  A figure by which a person really speaks of a thing while he makes a show as if he would say nothingon the subject. 

RETICENCY:  Reticence. 

RETICENT:  Inclined to keep silent; reserved; uncommunicative. 

RETICULAR:  Of or pertaining to a reticulum. 

RETICULARIA:  An extensive division of rhizopods in which the pseudopodia are more or less slender and coalesce at certain points, forming irregular meshes. It includes the shelled Foraminifera, together with some groups which lack a true shell. 

RETICULARIAN:  One of the Reticularia. 

RETICULARLY:  In a reticular manner.  RETICULATE; RETICULATED Re*tic"u*late, Re*tic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. reticulatus. See Reticule.]  1. Resembling network; having the form or appearance of a net; netted; as, a reticulated structure.  2. Having veins, fibers, or lines crossing like the threads or fibers of a network; as, a reticulate leaf; a reticulated surface; a reticulated wing of an insect. Reticulated glass, ornamental ware made from glass in which one set of white or colored lines seems to meet and interlace with another set in a different plane.  -- Reticulated micrometer, a micrometer for an optical instrument, consisting of a reticule in the focus of an eyepiece.  -- Reticulated work (Masonry), work constructed with diamond-shaped stones, or square stones placed diagonally. 

RETICULATION:  The quality or state of being reticulated, or netlike; that which is reticulated; network; an organization resembling a net. The particular net you occupy in the great reticulation. Carlyle. 

RETICULOSA:  Same as Reticularia. 

RETICULOSE:  Forming a network; characterized by a reticulated sructure. Reticulose rhizopod (Zoöl.), a rhizopod in which the pseudopodia blend together and form irregular meshes. 

RETIFORM:  Composed of crossing lines and interstices; reticular; netlike; as, the retiform coat of the eye. 

RETINA:  The delicate membrane by which the back part of the globe of the eye is lined, and in which the fibers of the optic nerve terminate. See Eye.  Note: The fibers of the optic nerve and the retinal blood vessels spread out upon the front surface of the retina, while the sensory layer (called Jacob's membrane), containing the rods and cones, is on the back side, next the choroid coat. 

RETINACULUM:  One of the retractor muscles of the proboscis of certain worms.  3. (Bot.)  A small gland or process to which bodies are attached; as, the glandular retinacula to which the pollinia of orchids are attached, or the hooks which support the seeds in many acanthaceous plants. 

RETINAL:  Of or pertaining to the retina. Retinal purple (Physiol. Chem.), the visual purple. 

RETINALITE:  A translucent variety of serpentine, of a honey yellow or greenish yellow color, having a waxy resinlike luster.  RETINASPHALT; RETINASPHALTUM Ret`in*as"phalt, Ret`in*as*phal"tum, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)  Retinite. 

RETINERVED:  Having reticulated veins. 

RETINEUM:  That part of the eye of an invertebrate which corresponds in function with the retina of a vertebrate. 

RETINIC:  Of or pertaining to resin; derived from resin; specifically, designating an acid found in certain fossil resins and hydrocarbons. 

RETINITE:  An inflammable mineral resin, usually of a yellowish brown color, found in roundish masses, sometimes with coal. 

RETINITIS:  Inflammation of the retina. 

RETINOID:  Resinlike, or resinform; resembling a resin without being such. 

RETINOL:  A hydrocarbon oil obtained by the distillation of resin, -- used in printer's ink. 

RETINOPHORA:  One of group of two to four united cells which occupy the axial part of the ocelli, or ommatidia, of the eyes of invertebrates, and contain the terminal nerve fibrillæ. See Illust. under Ommatidium. 

RETINOPHORAL:  Of or pertaining to retinophoræ. 

RETINOSCOPY:  The study of the retina of the eye by means of the ophthalmoscope. 

RETINUE:  The body of retainers who follow a prince or other distinguished person; a train of attendants; a suite. Others of your insolent retinue. Shak. What followers, what retinue canst thou gain Milton. To have at one's retinue, to keep or employ as a retainer; to retain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RETINULA:  One of the group of pigmented cells which surround the retinophoræ of invertebrates. See Illust. under Ommatidium. 

RETINULATE:  Having, or characterized by, retinul 

RETIPED:  A bird having small polygonal scales covering the tarsi. 

RETIRACY:  Retirement; -- mostly used in a jocose or burlesque way. [U.S.] Bartlett. What one of our great men used to call dignified retiracy. C. A. Bristed. 

RETIRADE:  A kind of retrenchment, as in the body of a bastion, which may be disputed inch by inch after the defenses are dismantled. It usually consists of two faces which make a reëntering angle. 

RETIRE:  A call sounded on a bugle, announcing to skirmishers that they are to retire, or fall back. 

RETIRER:  One who retires. 

RETISTENE:  A white crystalline hydrocarbon produced indirectly from retene. 

RETITELAE:  A group of spiders which spin irregular webs; -- called also Retitelariæ. 

RETOLD:  imp. & p. p. of Retell. 

RETORSION:  Same as Retortion. 

RETORT:  To return an argument or a charge; to make a severe reply. Pope. 

RETORT:  A vessel in which substances are subjected to distillation or decomposition by heat. It is made of different forms and materials for different uses, as a bulb of glass with a curved beak to enter a receiver for general chemical operations, or a cylinder or semicylinder of cast iron for the manufacture of gas in gas works. Tubulated retort (Chem.), a retort having a tubulure for the introduction or removal of the substances which are to be acted upon.  Syn.  -- Repartee; answer.  -- Retort, Repartee. A retort is a short and pointed reply, turning back on an assailant the arguments, censure, or derision he had thrown out. A repartee is usually a good-natured return to some witty or sportive remark. 

RETORTER:  One who retorts. 

RETORTION:  Retaliation. Wharton. 

RETORTIVE:  Containing retort. 

RETOSS:  To toss back or again. 

RETOUCH:  To correct or change, as a negative, by handwork. 

RETOUCH:  A partial reworking,as of a painting, a sculptor's clay model, or the like. 

RETOUCHER:  One who retouches. 

RETRACT:  The pricking of a horse's foot in nailing on a shoe. 

RETRACTABLE:  Capable of being retracted; retractile. 

RETRACTATE:  To retract; to recant. [Obs.] 

RETRACTATION:  The act of retracting what has been said; recantation. 

RETRACTIBLE:  Retractable. 

RETRACTILE:  CApable of retraction; capable of being drawn back or up; as, the claws of a cat are retractile. 

RETRACTIVE:  Serving to retract; of the nature of a retraction.  -- Re*tract"ive*ly, adv. 

RETRACTIVE:  That which retracts, or withdraws. 

RETRACTOR:  One who, or that which, retracts. Specifically: (a) In breech-loading firearms, a device for withdrawing a cartridge shell from the barrel. (b) (Surg.)  An instrument for holding apart the edges of a wound during amputation. (c) (Surg.) A bandage to protect the soft parts from injury by the saw during amputation. (d) (Anat. & Zoöl.)  A muscle serving to draw in any organ or part. See Illust. under Phylactolæmata. 

RETRAICT:  Retreat. [Obs.] Bacon. 

RETRAIT:  A portrait; a likeness. [Obs.] Whose fair retrait I in my shield do bear. Spenser. 

RETRANSFORM:  To transform anew or back.  -- Re`trans*for*ma"tion, n. 

RETRANSLATE:  To translate anew; especially, to translate back into the original language. 

RETRAXIT:  The withdrawing, or open renunciation, of a suit in court by the plaintiff, by which he forever lost his right of action. Blackstone. 

RETREAD:  To tread again. 

RETREAT:  To make a retreat; to retire from any position or place; to withdraw; as, the defeated army retreated from the field. The rapid currents drive Towards the retreating sea their furious tide. Milton. 

RETREATFUL:  Furnishing or serving as a retreat. [R.] "Our retreatful flood." Chapman. 

RETREATMENT:  The act of retreating; specifically, the Hegira. [R.] D'Urfey. 

RETRENCH:  To furnish with a retrenchment; as, to retrench bastions.  Syn.  -- To lesen; diminish; curtail; abridge. 

RETRENCH:  To cause or suffer retrenchment; specifically, to cut down living expenses; as, it is more reputable to retrench than to live embarrassed. 

RETRENCHMENT:  A work constructed within another, to prolong the defense of the position when the enemy has gained possession of the outer work; or to protect the defenders till they can retreat or obtain terms for a capitulation.  Syn.  -- Lessening; curtailment; diminution; reduction; abridgment. 

RETRIAL:  A secdond trial, experiment, or test; a second judicial trial, as of an accused person. 

RETRIBUTE:  To pay back; to give in return, as payment, reward, or punishment; to requite; as, to retribute one for his kindness; to retribute just punishment to a criminal. [Obs. or R.] Locke. 

RETRIBUTER:  One who makes retribution. 

RETRIBUTION:  Of or pertaining to retribution; of the nature of retribution; involving retribution or repayment; as, retributive justice; retributory comforts. 

RETRIEVABLE:  That may be retrieved or recovered; admitting of retrieval.  -- Re*triev"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Re*triev"a*bly, adv. 

RETRIEVAL:  The act retrieving. 

RETRIEVE:  To discover and bring in game that has been killed or wounded; as, a dog naturally inclined to retrieve. Walsh. 

RETRIEVEMENT:  Retrieval. 

RETRIEVER:  A dor, or a breed of dogs, chiefly employed to retrieve, or to find and recover game birds that have been killed or wounded. 

RETRIM:  To trim again. 

RETRIMENT:  Refuse; dregs. [R.]  RETRO- Retro-. Etym: [L. retro, adv., backward, back. Cf. Re-.]  A prefix or combining form signifying backward, back; as, retroact, to act backward; retrospect, a looking back. 

RETROACT:  To act backward, or in return; to act in opposition; to be retrospective. 

RETROACTIVE:  Fitted or designed to retroact; operating by returned action; affecting what is past; retrospective. Beddoes. Retroactive law or statute (Law), one which operates to make criminal or punishable, or in any way expressly to affect, acts done prior to the passing of the law. 

RETROACTIVELY:  In a retroactive manner. 

RETROCEDE:  To cede or grant back; as, to retrocede a territory to a former proprietor. 

RETROCEDE:  To go back. 

RETROCEDENT:  Disposed or likely to retrocede; -- said of diseases which go from one part of the body to another, as the gout. 

RETROCESSION:  Metastasis of an eruption or a tumor from the surface to the interior of the body. 

RETROCHOIR:  Any extension of a church behind the higggggggh altar, as a chapel; also, in an apsidal church, all the space beyond the line of the back or eastern face of the altar. 

RETROCOPULANT:  Copulating backward, or from behind. 

RETROCOPULATION:  Copulation from behind. Sir T. Browne. 

RETRODUCTION:  A leading or bringing back.  RETROFLEX; RETROFLEXED Re"tro*flex, Re"tro*flexed, a. Etym: [Pref. retro- + L. flectere, flexum, to bend, to turn.]  Reflexed; bent or turned abruptly backward. 

RETROFLEXION:  The act of reflexing; the state of being retroflexed. Cf. Retroversion.  RETROFRACT; RETROFRACTED Re"tro*fract, Re"tro*fract`ed, a. Etym: [Pref. retro- + L. fractus, p. p. of frangere to break.] (Bot.)  Refracted; as, a retrofract stem. 

RETROGENERATIVE:  Begetting young by retrocopulation. 

RETROGRADE:  Apparently moving backward, and contrary to the succession of the signs, that is, from east to west, as a planet. Hutton. And if he be in the west side in that condition, then is he retrograde. Chaucer.  2. Tending or moving backward; having a backward course; contrary; as, a retrograde motion; -- opposed to Ant: progressive. "Progressive and not retrograde." Bacon. It is most retrograde to our desire. Shak.  3. Declining from a better to a worse state; as, a retrograde people; retrograde ideas, morals, etc. Bacon. 

RETROGRADINGLY:  By retrograding; so as to retrograde. 

RETROGRESS:  Retrogression. [R.] H. Spenser. 

RETROGRESSION:  Backward development; a passing from a higher to a lower state of organization or structure, as when an animal, approaching maturity, becomes less highly organized than would be expected from its earlier stages or known relationship. Called also retrograde development, and regressive metamorphism. 

RETROGRESSIVE:  Passing from a higher to a lower condition; declining from a more perfect state of organization; regressive. 

RETROGRESSIVELY:  In a retrogressive manner. 

RETROMINGENCY:  The quality or state of being retromingent. Sir T. Browne. 

RETROMINGENT:  Organized so as to discharge the urine backward.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  An animal that discharges its urine backward. 

RETROPULSIVE:  Driving back; repelling. 

RETRORSE:  Bent backward or downward.  -- Re*trorse"ly, adv. 

RETROSPECT:  To look backward; hence, to affect or concern what is past. It may be useful to retrospect to an early period. A. Hamilton. 

RETROSPECT:  A looking back on things past; view or contemplation of the past. Cowper. We may introduce a song without retrospect to the old comedy. Landor. 

RETROSPECTION:  The act, or the faculty, of looking back on things past. 

RETROSPECTIVELY:  By way of retrospect. 

RETROUSSE:  Turned up; -- said of a pug nose. 

RETROVACCINATION:  The inoculation of a cow with human vaccine virus. 

RETROVERSION:  A turning or bending backward; also, the state of being turned or bent backward; displacement backwards; as, retroversion of the uterus.  Note: In retroversion the bending is gradual or curved; in retroflexion it is abrupt or angular. 

RETROVERT:  To turn back. 

RETROVERTED:  In a state of retroversion. 

RETRUDE:  To thrust back. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

RETRUSE:  Abstruse. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

RETRUSION:  The act of retruding, or the state of being retruded. In virtue of an endless remotion or retrusion of the constituent cause. Coleridge. 

RETRY:  To try (esp. judicially) a second time; as, to retry a case; to retry an accused person. 

RETTE:  See Aret. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RETTERY:  A place or establishment where flax is retted. See Ret. Ure. 

RETUND:  To blunt; to turn, as an edge; figuratively, to cause to be obtuse or dull; as, to retund confidence. Ray. Cudworth.  RE-TURN Re-turn", v. t. & i.  To turn again. 

RETURN:  To bat (the ball) back over the net.  12. (Card Playing)  To lead in response to the lead of one's partner; as, to return a trump; to return a diamond for a club. To return a lead (Card Playing), to lead the same suit led by one's partner.  Syn.  -- To restore; requite; repay; recompense; render; remit; report. 

RETURN:  The continuation in a different direction, most often at a right angle, of a building, face of a building, or any member, as a molding or mold; -- applied to the shorter in contradistinction to the longer; thus, a facade of sixty feet east and west has a return of twenty feet north and south.  5. (Law) (a) The rendering back or delivery of writ, precept, or execution, to the proper officer or court. (b) The certificate of an officer stating what he has done in execution of a writ, precept, etc., indorsed on the document. (c) The sending back of a commission with the certificate of the commissioners. (d) A day in bank. See Return day, below. Blackstone.  6. (Mil. & Naval)  An official account, report, or statement, rendered to the commander or other superior officer; as, the return of men fit for duty; the return of the number of the sick; the return of provisions, etc.  7. pl. (Fort. & Mining)  The turnings and windings of a trench or mine. Return ball, a ball held by an elastic string so that it returns to the hand from which it is thrown, -- used as a plaything.  -- Return bend, a pipe fitting for connecting the contiguous ends of two nearly parallel pipes lying alongside or one above another.  -- Return day (Law), the day when the defendant is to appear in court, and the sheriff is to return the writ and his proceedings.  -- Return flue, in a steam boiler, a flue which conducts flame or gases of combustion in a direction contrary to their previous movement in another flue.  -- Return pipe (Steam Heating), a pipe by which water of condensation from a heater or radiator is conveyed back toward the boiler. 

RETURNABLE:  Legally required to be returned, delivered, given, or rendered; as, a writ or precept returnable at a certain day; a verdict returnable to the court. 

RETURNER:  One who returns. 

RETURNLESS:  Admitting no return. Chapman. 

RETUSE:  Having the end rounded and slightly indented; as, a retuse leaf. 

REULE:  Rule. [Obs.] 

REUME:  Realm. [Obs.] 

REUNITE:  To unite again; to join after separation or variance. Shak. 

REUNITEDLY:  In a reunited manner. 

REUNITION:  A second uniting. [R.] 

REURGE:  To urge again. 

REVACCINATE:  To vaccinate a second time or again.  -- Re*vac`ci*na"tion(#), n. 

REVALESCENCE:  The act of growing well; the state of being revalescent. Would this prove that the patient's revalescence had been independent of the medicines given him Coleridge. 

REVALESCENT:  Growing well; recovering strength. 

REVALUATION:  A second or new valuation. 

REVAMP:  To vamp again; hence, topatch up; to reconstruct. 

REVE:  To reave. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REVE:  An officer, steward, or governor. [Usually written reeve.] [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

REVEAL:  The side of an opening for a window, doorway, or the like, between the door frame or window frame and the outer surface of the wall; or, where the opening is not filled with a door, etc., the whole thickness of the wall; the jamb. [Written also revel.] 

REVEALABILITY:  The quality or state of being revealable; revealableness. 

REVEALABLE:  Capable of being revealed.  -- Re*veal"a*ble*ness, n. 

REVEALER:  One who, or that which, reveals. 

REVEALMENT:  Act of revealing. [R.] 

REVEGETATE:  To vegetate anew. 

REVEILLE:  The beat of drum, or bugle blast, about break of day, to give notice that it is time for the soldiers to rise, and for the sentinels to forbear challenging. "Sound a reveille." Dryden. For at dawning to assail ye Here no bugles sound reveille. Sir W. Scott. 

REVEL:  See Reveal. [R.] 

REVEL:  A feast with loose and noisy jollity; riotous festivity or merrymaking; a carousal. This day in mirth and revel to dispend. Chaucer. Some men ruin . . . their bodies by incessant revels. Rambler. Master of the revels, Revel master. Same as Lord of misrule, under Lord. 

REVEL:  To draw back; to retract. [Obs.] Harvey. 

REVELATE:  To reveal. [Obs.] Frith. Barnes. 

REVELATOR:  One who makes a revelation; a revealer. [R.] 

REVELER:  One who revels. "Moonshine revelers." Shak. 

REVELLENT:  Causing revulsion; revulsive.  -- n. (Med.)  A revulsive medicine. 

REVELMENT:  The act of reveling. 

REVELOUS:  Fond of festivity; given to merrymaking or reveling. [Obs.] Companionable and revelous was she. Chaucer.  REVEL-ROUT Rev"el-rout`, n. Etym: [See Rout.]  1. Tumultuous festivity; revelry. [Obs.] Rowe.  2. A rabble; a riotous assembly; a mob. [Obs.] 

REVELRY:  The act of engaging in a revel; noisy festivity; reveling. And pomp and feast and revelry. Milton. 

REVENDICATE:  To reclaim; to demand the restoration of. [R.] Vattel (Trans. ). 

REVENDICATION:  The act of revendicating. [R.] Vattel (Trans. ) 

REVENGE:  To take vengeance; -- with upon. [Obs.] "A bird that will revenge upon you all." Shak. 

REVENGEABLE:  Capable of being revenged; as, revengeable wrong. Warner. 

REVENGEANCE:  Vengeance; revenge. [Obs.] 

REVENGEFUL:  Full of, or prone to, revenge; vindictive; malicious; revenging; wreaking revenge. If thy revengeful heart can not forgive. Shak. May my hands . . . Never brandish more rebvengeful steel. Shak.  Syn.  -- Vindictive; vengeful; resentful; malicious.  -- Re*venge"ful*ly, adv.  -- Re*venge"ful*ness, n. 

REVENGELESS:  Unrevenged. [Obs.] Marston. 

REVENGEMENT:  Revenge. [Obs.] He 'll breed revengement and a scourge for me. Shak. 

REVENGER:  One who revenges. Shak. 

REVENGING:  Executing revenge; revengeful.  -- Re*ven"ging*ly, adv. Shak. 

REVERB:  To echo. [Obs.] Shak. 

REVERBERANT:  Having the quality of reverberation; reverberating. 

REVERBERATION:  The act of reverberating; especially, the act of reflecting light or heat, or reëchoing sound; as, the reverberation of rays from a mirror; the reverberation of rays from a mirror; the reverberation of voices; the reverberation of heat or flame in a furnace. 

REVERBERATIVE:  Of the nature of reverberation; tending to reverberate; reflective. This reverberative influence is that which we have intended above, as the influence of the mass upon its centers. I. Taylor. 

REVERBERATOR:  One who, or that which, produces reverberation. 

REVERBERATORY:  Producing reverberation; acting by reverberation; reverberative. Reverberatory furnace. See the Note under Furnace. 

REVERBERATORY:  A reverberatory furnace. 

REVERDURE:  To cover again with verdure. Ld. Berners. 

REVERE:  To regard with reverence, or profound respect and affection, mingled with awe or fear; to venerate; to reverence; to honor in estimation. Marcus Aurelius, whom he rather revered as his father than treated as his partner in the empire. Addison.  Syn.  -- To venerate; adore; reverence. 

REVERENCE:  To regard or treat with reverence; to regard with respect and affection mingled with fear; to venerate. Let . . . the wife see that she reverence her husband. Eph. v. 33. Those that I reverence those I fear, the wise. Shak. 

REVERENCER:  One who regards with reverence. "Reverencers of crowned heads." Swift. 

REVEREND:  Worthy of reverence; entitled to respect mingled with fear and affection; venerable. A reverend sire among them came. Milton. They must give good example and reverend deportment in the face of their children. Jer. Taylor.  Note: This word is commonly given as a title of respect to ecclesiastics. A clergyman is styled the reverend; a dean, the very reverend; a bishop, the right reverend; an archbishop, the most reverend. 

REVERENDLY:  Reverently. [Obs.] Foxe. 

REVERENTIAL:  Proceeding from, or expressing, reverence; having a reverent quality; reverent; as, reverential fear or awe. "A reverential esteem of things sacred." South. 

REVERENTIALLY:  In a reverential manner. 

REVERENTLY:  In a reverent manner; in respectful regard. 

REVERER:  One who reveres.  REVERIE; REVERY Rev"er*ie, Rev"er*y, n.; pl. Reveries. Etym: [F. réverie, fr. rêver to dream, rave, be light-headed. Cf. Rave.]  1. A loose or irregular train of thought occurring in musing or mediation; deep musing; daydream. "Rapt in nameless reveries." Tennyson. When ideas float in our mind without any reflection or regard of the understanding, it is that which the French call revery, our language has scarce a name for it. Locke.  2. An extravagant concient of the fancy; a vision. [R.] There are infinite reveries and numberless extravagancies pass through both [wise and foolish minds]. Addison. 

REVERS:  A part turned or folded back so as to show the inside, or a piece put on in imitation of such a part, as the lapel of a coat. 

REVERSAL:  Intended to reverse; implying reversal. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet. 

REVERSE:  Reversed; as, a reverse shell. Reverse bearing (Surv.), the bearing of a back station as observed from the station next in advance.  -- Reverse curve (Railways), a curve like the letter S, formed of two curves bending in opposite directions.  -- Reverse fire (Mil.), a fire in the rear.  -- Reverse operation (Math.), an operation the steps of which are taken in a contrary order to that in which the same or similar steps are taken in another operation considered as direct; an operation in which that is sought which in another operation is given, and that given which in the other is sought; as, finding the length of a pendulum from its time of vibration is the reverse operation to finding the time of vibration from the length. 

REVERSE:  A turn or fold made in bandaging, by which the direction of the bandage is changed. 

REVERSE:  To overthrow by a contrary decision; to make void; to under or annual for error; as, to reverse a judgment, sentence, or decree. Reverse arms (Mil.), a position of a soldier in which the piece passes between the right elbow and the body at an angle of 45°, and is held as in the illustration.  -- To reverse an engine or a machine, to cause it to perform its revolutions or action in the opposite direction.  Syn.  -- To overturn; overset; invert; overthrow; subvert; repeal; annul; revoke; undo. 

REVERSED:  Annulled and the contrary substituted; as, a reversed judgment or decree. Reversed positive or negative (Photog.), a picture corresponding with the original in light and shade, but reversed as to right and left. Abney. 

REVERSEDLY:  In a reversed way. 

REVERSELESS:  Irreversible. [R.] A. SEward. 

REVERSELY:  In a reverse manner; on the other hand; on the opposite. Bp. Pearson. 

REVERSER:  One who reverses. 

REVERSIBILITY:  The quality of being reversible. Tyndall. 

REVERSIBLY:  In a reversible manner. 

REVERSING:  Serving to effect reversal, as of motion; capable of being reversed. Reversing engine, a steam engine having a reversing gear by means of which it can be made to run in either direction at will.  -- Reversing gear (Mach.), gear for reversing the direction of rotation at will. 

REVERSION:  The returning of an esttate to the grantor or his heirs, by operation of law, after the grant has terminated; hence, the residue of an estate left in the proprietor or owner thereof, to take effect in possession, by operation of law, after the termination of a limited or less estate carved out of it and conveyed by him. Kent.  4. Hence, a right to future possession or enjoiment; succession. For even reversions are all begged before. Dryden.  5. (Annuities)  A payment which is not to be received, or a benefit which does not begin, until the happening of some event, as the death of a living person. Brande &C.  6. (Biol.)  A return towards some ancestral type or character; atavism. Reversion of series (Alg.), the act of reverting a series. See To revert a series, under Revert, v. t. 

REVERSIONARY:  Of or pertaining to a reversion; involving a reversion; to be enjoyed in succession, or after the termination of a particular estate; as, a reversionary interest or right. 

REVERSIONARY:  That which is to be received in reversion. 

REVERSIONER:  One who has a reversion, or who is entitled to lands or tenements, after a particular estate granted is terminated. Blackstone. 

REVERSIS:  A certain game at cards. 

REVERT:  To change back. See Revert, v. i. To revert a series (Alg.), to treat a series, as y = a + bx + cx2 + etc., where one variable y is expressed in powers of a second variable x, so as to find therefrom the second variable x, expressed in a series arranged in powers of y. 

REVERT:  To return to the proprietor after the termination of a particular estate granted by him.  3. (Biol.)  To return, wholly or in part, towards some preëxistent form; to take on the traits or characters of an ancestral type.  4. (Chem.)  To change back, as from a soluble to an insoluble state or the reverse; thus, phosphoric acid in certain fertilizers reverts. 

REVERT:  One who, or that which, reverts. An active promoter in making the East Saxons converts, or rather reverts, to the faith. Fuller. 

REVERTED:  Turned back; reversed. Specifically: (Her.) Bent or curved twice, in opposite directions, or in the form of an S. 

REVERTENT:  A remedy which restores the natural order of the inverted irritative motions in the animal system. [Obs.] E. Darwin. 

REVERTIBLE:  Capable of, or admitting of, reverting or being reverted; as, a revertible estate. 

REVERTIVE:  Reverting, or tending to revert; returning.  -- Re*vert"ive*ly, adv. The tide revertive, unattracted, leaves A yellow waste of idle sands behind. Thomson. 

REVERY:  Same as Reverie. 

REVEST:  To take effect or vest again, as a title; to revert to former owner; as, the title or right revels in A after alienation. 

REVESTIARY:  The apartment, in a church or temple, where the vestments, etc., are kept; -- now contracted into vestry. 

REVESTRY:  Same as Revestiary. [Obs.] 

REVESTTURE:  Vesture. [Obs.] Richrevesture of cloth of gold. E. Hall. 

REVET:  To face, as an embankment, with masonry, wood, or other material. 

REVETMENT:  A facing of wood, stone, or any other material, to sustain an embankment when it receives a slope steeper than the natural slope; also, a retaining wall. [Written also revêtement ( 

REVIBRATE:  To vibrate back or in return.  -- Re`vi*bra"tion, n. 

REVICT:  To reconquer. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

REVICTION:  Return to life. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

REVICTUAL:  To victual again. 

REVIE:  To meet a wager on, as on the taking of a trick, with a higher wager. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

REVIEW:  To look back; to make a review. 

REVIEW:  The judicial examination of the proceedings of a lower court by a higher.  7. A lesson studied or recited for a second time. Bill of review (Equity), a bill, in the nature of proceedings in error, filed to procure an examination and alteration or reversal of a final decree which has been duly signed and enrolled. Wharton.  -- Commission of review (Eng. Eccl. Law), a commission formerly granted by the crown to revise the sentence of the court of delegates.  Syn.  -- Reëxamination; resurvey; retrospect; survey; reconsideration; revisal; revise; revision. 

REVIEWABLE:  Capable of being reviewed. 

REVIEWAL:  A review. [R.] Southey. 

REVIEWER:  One who reviews or reëxamines; an inspector; one who examines publications critically, and publishes his opinion upon their merits; a professional critic of books. 

REVIGORATE:  Having new vigor or strength; invigorated anew. [R.] Southey. 

REVIGORATE:  To give new vigor to. [Obs.] 

REVILE:  To address or abuse with opprobrious and contemptuous language; to reproach. "And did not she herself revile me there" Shak. Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. 1 Pet. ii. 23.  Syn.  -- To reproach; vilify; upbraid; calumniate. 

REVILE:  Reproach; reviling. [Obs.] The gracious Judge, without revile, replied. Milton. 

REVILEMENT:  The act of reviling; also, contemptuous language; reproach; abuse. Spenser. 

REVILER:  One who reviles. 1. Cor. vi. 10. 

REVILING:  Reproach; abuse; vilification. Neither be ye afraid of their revilings. Isa. li. 7. 

REVILING:  Uttering reproaches; containing reproaches.  -- Re*vil"ing*ly, adv. 

REVINCE:  To overcome; to refute, as error. [Obs.] Foxe. 

REVINDICATE:  To vindicate again; to reclaim; to demand and take back. Mitford. 

REVIRESCENCE:  A growing green or fresh again; renewal of youth or vigor. [Obs.] 

REVISABLE:  That may be revised. 

REVISAL:  The act of revising, or reviewing and reëxamining for correction and improvement; revision; as, the revisal of a manuscript; the revisal of a proof sheet; the revisal of a treaty. 

REVISE:  To compare (a proof) with a previous proof of the same matter, and mark again such errors as have not been corrected in the type.  3. To review, alter, and amend; as, to revise statutes; to revise an agreement; to revise a dictionary. The Revised Version of the Bible, a version prepared in accordance with a resolution passed, in 1870, by both houses of the Convocation of the Province of Canterbury, England. Both English and American revisers were employed on the work. It was first published in a complete form in 1885, and is a revised form of the Authorized Version. See Authorized Version, under Authorized. 

REVISE:  A second proof sheet; a proof sheet taken after the first or a subsequent correction. 

REVISER:  One who revises. 

REVISION:  Of or pertaining to revision; revisory. 

REVISITATION:  The act of revisiting. 

REVISORY:  Having the power or purpose to revise; revising. Story. 

REVITALIZE:  To restore vitality to; to bring back to life. L. S. Beale. 

REVIVABLE:  That may be revived. 

REVIVAL:  The act of reviving, or the state of being revived. Specifically: (a) Renewed attention to something, as to letters or literature. (b) Renewed performance of, or interest in, something, as the drama and literature. (c) Renewed interest in religion, after indifference and decline; a period of religious awakening; special religious interest. (d) Reanimation from a state of langour or depression; -- applied to the health, spirits, and the like. (e) Renewed pursuit, or cultivation, or flourishing state of something, as of commerce, arts, agriculture. (f) Renewed prevalence of something, as a practice or a fashion. (g) (Law) Restoration of force, validity, or effect; renewal; as, the revival of a debt barred by limitation; the revival of a revoked will, etc. (h) Revivification, as of a metal. See Revivification, 2. 

REVIVALISM:  The spirit of religious revivals; the methods of revivalists. 

REVIVALIST:  A clergyman or layman who promotes revivals of religion; an advocate for religious revivals; sometimes, specifically, a clergyman, without a particular charge, who goes about to promote revivals. Also used adjectively. 

REVIVALISTIC:  Pertaining to revivals. 

REVIVE:  To recover its natural or metallic state, as a metal. 

REVIVE:  To restore or reduce to its natural or metallic state; as, to revive a metal after calcination. 

REVIVEMENT:  Revival. [R.] 

REVIVER:  One who, or that which, revives. 

REVIVIFICATE:  To revive; to recall or restore to life. [R.] 

REVIVIFICATION:  The reduction of a metal from a state of combination to its metallic state. 

REVIVIFY:  To cause to revive. Some association may revivify it enough to make it flash, after a long oblivion, into consciousness. Sir W. Hamilton. 

REVIVING:  Returning or restoring to life or vigor; reanimating. Milton.  -- Re*viv"ing*ly, adv.  REVIVISCENCE; REVIVISCENCY Rev`i*vis"cence, Rev`i*vis"cen*cy, n.  The act of reviving, or the state of being revived; renewal of life. In this age we have a sort of reviviscence, not, I fear, of the power, but of a taste for the power, of the early times. Coleridge. 

REVIVISCENT:  Able or disposed to revive; reviving. E. Darwin. 

REVIVOR:  Revival of a suit which is abated by the death or marriage of any of the parties, -- done by a bill of revivor. Blackstone. 

REVOCABILITY:  The quality of being revocable; as, the revocability of a law. 

REVOCABLE:  Capable of being revoked; as, a revocable edict or grant; a revocable covenant.  -- Rev"o*ca*ble*ness, n.  -- Rev"o*ca*bly, adv. 

REVOCATE:  To recall; to call back. [Obs.] 

REVOCATORY:  Of or pertaining to revocation; tending to, or involving, a revocation; revoking; recalling. 

REVOICE:  To refurnish with a voice; to refit, as an organ pipe, so as to restore its tone. 

REVOKE:  To fail to follow suit when holding a card of the suit led, in violation of the rule of the game; to renege. Hoyle. 

REVOKE:  The act of revoking. She [Sarah Battle] never made a revoke. Lamb. 

REVOKEMENT:  Revocation. [R.] Shak. 

REVOKER:  One who revokes. 

REVOKINGLY:  By way of revocation. 

REVOLTER:  One who revolts. 

REVOLTING:  Causing abhorrence mixed with disgust; exciting extreme repugnance; loathsome; as, revolting cruelty.  -- Re*volt"ing*ly, adv. 

REVOLUBLE:  Capable of revolving; rotatory; revolving. [Obs.] Us, then, to whom the thrice three year Hath filled his revoluble orb since our arrival here, I blame not. Chapman. 

REVOLUTE:  Rolled backward or downward.  Note: A revolute leaf is coiled downwards, with the lower surface inside the coil. A leaf with revolute margins has the edges rolled under, as in the Andromeda polifilia. 

REVOLUTION:  The motion of any body, as a planet or satellite, in a curved line or orbit, until it returns to the same point again, or to a point relatively the same; -- designated as the annual, anomalistic, nodical, sidereal, or tropical revolution, according as the point of return or completion has a fixed relation to the year, the anomaly, the nodes, the stars, or the tropics; as, the revolution of the earth about the sun; the revolution of the moon about the earth.  Note: The term is sometimes applied in astronomy to the motion of a single body, as a planet, about its own axis, but this motion is usually called rotation.  5. (Geom.)  The motion of a point, line, or surface about a point or line as its center or axis, in such a manner that a moving point generates a curve, a moving line a surface (called a surface of revolution), and a moving surface a solid (called a solid of revolution); as, the revolution of a right-angled triangle about one of its sides generates a cone; the revolution of a semicircle about the diameter generates a sphere.  6. A total or radical change; as, a revolution in one's circumstances or way of living. The ability . . . of the great philosopher speedily produced a complete revolution throughout the department. Macaulay.  7. (Politics)  A fundamental change in political organization, or in a government or constitution; the overthrow or renunciation of one government, and the substitution of another, by the governed. The violence of revolutions is generally proportioned to the degree of the maladministration which has produced them. Macaulay.  Note: When used without qualifying terms, the word is often applied specifically, by way of eminence, to: (a) The English Revolution in 1689, when William of Orange and Mary became the reigning sovereigns, in place of James II. (b) The American Revolution, beginning in 1775, by which the English colonies, since known as the United States, secured their independence. (c) The revolution in France in 1789, commonly called the French Revolution, the subsequent revolutions in that country being designated by their dates, as the Revolution of 1830, of 1848, etc. 

REVOLUTIONARY:  Of or pertaining to a revolution in government; tending to, or promoting, revolution; as, revolutionary war; revolutionary measures; revolutionary agitators. 

REVOLUTIONARY:  A revolutionist. [R.] Dumfries was a Tory town, and could not tolerate a revolutionary. Prof. Wilson. 

REVOLUTIONER:  One who is engaged in effecting a revolution; a revolutionist. Smollett. 

REVOLUTIONISM:  The state of being in revolution; revolutionary doctrines or principles. 

REVOLUTIONIST:  One engaged in effecting a change of government; a favorer of revolution. Burke. 

REVOLUTIONIZE:  To change completely, as by a revolution; as, to revolutionize a government. Ames. The gospel . . . has revolutionized his soul. J. M. Mason. 

REVOLUTIVE:  Inclined to revolve things in the mind; meditative. [Obs.] Feltham. 

REVOLVABLE:  That may be revolved. 

REVOLVEMENT:  Act of revolving. [R.] 

REVOLVENCY:  The act or state of revolving; revolution. [Archaic] Its own revolvency upholds the world. Cowper. 

REVOLVER:  One who, or that which, revolves; specifically, a firearm ( commonly a pistol) with several chambers or barrels so arranged as to revolve on an axis, and be discharged in succession by the same lock; a repeater. 

REVOLVING:  Making a revolution or revolutions; rotating; -- used also figuratively of time, seasons, etc., depending on the revolution of the earth. But grief returns with the revolving year. Shelley. Revolving seasons, fruitless as they pass. Cowper. Revolving firearm. See Revolver.  -- Revolving light, a light or lamp in a lighthouse so arranged as to appear and disappear at fixed intervals, either by being turned about an axis so as to show light only at intervals, or by having its light occasionally intercepted by a revolving screen. 

REVULSE:  To pull back with force. [R.] Cowper. 

REVULSION:  The act of turning or diverting any disease from one part of the body to another. It resembles derivation, but is usually applied to a more active form of counter irritation. 

REVULSIVE:  Causing, or tending to, revulsion. 

REVULSIVE:  That which causes revulsion; specifically (Med.), a revulsive remedy or agent. 

REW:  A row. [Obs.] Chaucer. "A rew of sundry colored stones." Chapman. 

REWAKE:  To wake again. 

REWARD:  To give in return, whether good or evil; -- commonly in a good sense; to requite; to recompense; to repay; to compensate. After the deed that is done, one doom shall reward, Mercy or no mercy as truth will accord. Piers Plowman. Thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil. 1 Sam. xxiv. 17. I will render vengeance to mine enemies, and will reward them that hate me. Deut. xxxii. 41. God rewards those that have made use of the single talent. Hammond. 

REWARD:  Compensation or remuneration for services; a sum of money paid or taken for doing, or forbearing to do, some act. Burrill.  Syn.  -- Recompense; compensation; remuneration; pay; requital; retribution; punishment. 

REWARDABLE:  Worthy of reward.  -- Re*ward"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Re*ward"a*bly, adv. 

REWARDER:  One who rewards. 

REWARDFUL:  Yielding reward. [R.] 

REWARDLESS:  Having, or affording, no reward. 

REWE:  Tu rue. [Obs.] Chaucer.  REWEL BONE Rew"el bone`. Etym: [Perh. from F. rouelle, dim. of roue a wheel, L. rota.]  An obsolete phrase of disputed meaning, -- perhaps, smooth or polished bone. His saddle was of rewel boon. Chaucer. 

REWET:  A gunlock. [R.] 

REWFUL:  Rueful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REWIN:  To win again, or win back. The Palatinate was not worth the rewinning. Fuller. 

REWLE:  Rule. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REWME:  Realm. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

REWRITE:  To write again. Young. 

REWTH:  Ruth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REX:  A king. To play rex, to play the king; to domineer. [Obs.] 

REYN:  Rain or rein. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REYNARD:  An appelation applied after the manner of a proper name to the fox. Same as Renard. 

REYSE:  To raise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

REYSE:  To go on a military expedition. [Obs.] Chaucer.  REZ-DE-CHAUSSEE Rez`-de-chaus`sée", n. [F., lit., level of the street. See Raze, v. t., and Causey.] (Arch.)  The ground story of a building, either on a level with the street or raised slightly above it; -- said esp. of buildings on the continent of Europe.  Tier above tier of neat apartments rise over the little shops which form the rez-de-chaussée. The Century. 

RHABARBARATE:  Impregnated or tinctured with rhubarb. Floyer.  RHABARBARIN; RHABARBARINE Rha*bar"ba*rin, or; Rha*bar"ba*rine, n. (Chem.)  Chrysophanic acid. 

RHABDITE:  A minute smooth rodlike or fusiform structure found in the tissues of many Turbellaria.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the hard parts forming the ovipositor of insects. 

RHABDOCOELA:  A suborder of Turbellaria including those that have a simple cylindrical, or saclike, stomach, without an intestine. 

RHABDOCOELOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Rhabdocoela. 

RHABDOIDAL:  See Sagittal. 

RHABDOLITH:  A minute calcareous rodlike structure found both at the surface and the bottom of the ocean; -- supposed by some to be a calcareous alga. 

RHABDOLOGY:  Same as Rabdology. 

RHABDOM:  One of numerous minute rodlike structures formed of two or more cells situated behind the retinulæ in the compound eyes of insects, etc. See Illust. under Ommatidium. 

RHABDOMANCY:  Same as Rabdomancy. 

RHABDOMERE:  One of the several parts composing a rhabdom. 

RHABDOPHORA:  An extinct division of Hydrozoa which includes the graptolities. 

RHABDOPLEURA:  A genus of marine Bryozoa in which the tubular cells have a centralchitinous axis and the tentacles are borne on a bilobed lophophore. It is the type of the order Pterobranchia, or Podostomata 

RHABDOSPHERE:  A minute sphere composed of rhabdoliths. 

RHACHIALGIA:  See Rachialgia. 

RHACHIDIAN:  Of or pertaining to the rhachis; as, the rhachidian teeth of a mollusk. 

RHACHIGLOSSA:  A division of marine gastropods having a retractile proboscis and three longitudinal rows of teeth on the radula. It includes many of the large ornamental shells, as the miters, murices, olives, purpuras, volutes, and whelks. See Illust. in Append. 

RHACHILLA:  A branch of inflorescence; the zigzag axis on which the florets are arranged in the spikelets of grasses. 

RHACHIODONT:  Having gular teeth formed by a peculiar modification of the inferior spines of some of the vertebræ, as certain South African snakes (Dasypelits) which swallow birds' eggs and use these gular teeth to crush them. 

RHACHIS:  The spine.  2. (Bot.) (a) The continued stem or midrib of a pinnately compound leaf, as in a rose leaf or a fern. (b) The principal axis in a raceme, spike, panicle, or corymb.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) The shaft of a feather. The rhachis of the after-shaft, or plumule, is called the hyporhachis. (b) The central cord in the stem of a crinoid. (c) The median part of the radula of a mollusk. (d) A central cord of the ovary of nematodes. 

RHACHITIS:  See Rachitis. 

RHADAMANTHINE:  Of or pertaining to Rhadamanthus; rigorously just; as, a Rhadamanthine judgment.  RHADAMANTHUS; RHADAMANTHYS Rhad`a*man"thus, Rhad`a*man"thys, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Greek Mythol.)  One of the three judges of the internal regions; figuratively, a strictly just judge. 

RHAETIAN:  Rhetian.  RHAETIC; RHETIC Rhae"tic, Rhe"tic, a. Etym: [L. Rhaeticus Rhetian.] (Geol.)  Pertining to, or of the same horizon as, certain Mesozoic strata of the Rhetian Alps. These strata are regarded as closing the Triassic period. See the Chart of Geology.  RHAETIZITE; RHETIZITE Rhae"ti*zite, Rhe"ti*zite, n. Etym: [So called from L. Rhaetia, Raetia, the Rhetian Alps, where it is found.] (Min.)  A variety of the mineral cyanite. 

RHAMADAN:  See Ramadan. 

RHAMNACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of shrubs and trees (Rhamnaceæ, or Rhamneæ) of which the buckthorn (Rhamnus) is the type. It includes also the New Jersey tea, the supple-jack, and one of the plants called lotus (Zizyphus). 

RHAMNUS:  A genus of shrubs and small trees; buckthorn. The California Rhamnus Purchianus and the European R. catharticus are used in medicine. The latter is used for hedges. 

RHAMPHORHYNCHUS:  A genus of pterodactyls in which the elongated tail supported a leathery expansion at the tip. 

RHAMPHOTHECA:  The horny covering of the bill of birds. 

RHAPHE:  The continuation of the seed stalk along the side of an anatropous ovule or seed, forming a ridge or seam. [Written also raphe.] Gray. 

RHAPHIDES:  Minute transparent, often needlle-shaped, crystals found in the tissues of plants. [Written also raphides.] 

RHAPONTICINE:  Chrysophanic acid. 

RHAPSODE:  A rhapsodist. [R.] Grote. 

RHAPSODER:  A rhapsodist. [Obs.]  RHAPSODIC; RHAPSODIC Rhap*sod"ic, Rhap*sod"ic a. Etym: [Gr. rhapsodique.]  Of or pertaining to rhapsody; consisting of rhapsody; hence, confused; unconnected.  -- Rhap*sod"ic*al*ly, adv. 

RHAPSODIZE:  To utter as a rhapsody, or in the manner of a rhapsody Sterne. 

RHAPSODIZE:  To utter rhapsodies. Jefferson. 

RHAPSODOMANCY:  Divination by means of verses. 

RHAPSODY:  A composition irregular in form, like an improvisation; as, Liszt's "Hungarian Rhapsodies."  RHATANY; RHATANHY Rhat"a*ny, Rhat"an*hy, n. Etym: [Sp. ratania, rataña, Peruv. rataña.]  The powerfully astringent root of a half-shrubby Peruvian plant (Krameria triandra). It is used in medicine and to color port wine. [Written also ratany.] Savanilla rhatany, the root of Krameria Ixina, a native of New Granada. 

RHEA:  The ramie or grass-cloth plant. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass. 

RHEA:  Any one of three species of large South American ostrichlike birds of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia. Called also the American ostrich.  Note: The common rhea, or nandou (Rhea Americana), ranges from Brazil to Patagonia. Darwin's rhea (Pterocnemia Darwinii), of Patagonia, is smaller, and has the legs feathered below the knee. 

RHEAE:  A suborder of struthious birds including the rheas. 

RHEEBOC:  The peele. [Written also reebok.] 

RHEIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called chrysophanic acid) found in rhubarb (Rheum). [Obsoles.] 

RHEIN:  Chrysophanic acid. 

RHEINBERRY:  One of the berries or drupes of the European buckthorn; also, the buckthorn itself. 

RHEMATIC:  Having a verb for its base; derived from a verb; as, rhematic adjectives. Ftzed. Hall. 

RHEMATIC:  The doctrine of propositions or sentences. Coleridge. 

RHEMISH:  Of or pertaining to Rheimis, or Reima, in France. Rhemish Testament, the English version of the New Testament used by Roman Catholics. See Douay Bible. 

RHENISH:  Of or pertaining to the river Rhine; as, Rhenish wine.  -- n.  Rhine wine. 

RHEOCHORD:  A metallic wire used for regulating the resistance of a circuit, or varying the strength of an electric current, by inserting a greater or less length of it in the circuit. 

RHEOCRAT:  A kind of motor speed controller permitting of very gradual variation in speed and of reverse. It is especially suitable for use with motor driven machine tools. 

RHEOMETER:  An instrument for measuring currents, especially the force or intensity of electrical currents; a galvanometer.  2. (Physiol.)  An instrument for measuring the velocity of the blood current in the arteries. 

RHEOMETRIC:  Of or pertaining to a rheometer or rheometry. Lardner. 

RHEOMETRY:  The calculus; fluxions. [R.] 

RHEOMOTOR:  Any apparatus by which an electrical current is originated. [R.] 

RHEOSCOPE:  An instrument for detecting the presence or movement of currents, as of electricity. 

RHEOSTAT:  A contrivance for adjusting or regulating the strength of electrical currents, operating usually by the intercalation of resistance which can be varied at will. Wheatstone. --Rhe`o*stat"ic, a. 

RHEOTOME:  An instrument which periodically or otherwise interrupts an electric current. Wheatstone. 

RHEOTROPE:  An instrument for reversing the direction of an electric current. [Written also reotrope.] 

RHESUS:  A monkey; the bhunder. 

RHETIAN:  Pertaining to the ancient Rhæti, or Rhætians, or to Rhætia, their country; as, the Rhetian Alps, now the country of Tyrol and the Grisons. 

RHETIC:  Same as Rhætic. 

RHETIZITE:  Same as Rhætizite. 

RHETOR:  A rhetorician. [Obs.] Hammond. 

RHETORICAL:  Of or pertaining to rhetoric; according to, or exhibiting, rhetoric; oratorical; as, the rhetorical art; a rhetorical treatise; a rhetorical flourish. They permit him to leave their poetical taste ungratified, provided that he gratifies their rhetorical sense. M. Arnold. -- Rhe*tor"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Rhe*tor"ic*al*ness, n. 

RHETORICATE:  To play the orator. [Obs.] South. 

RHETORICATION:  Rhetorical amplification. [Obs.] Waterland. 

RHETORICIAN:  Suitable to a master of rhetoric. "With rhetorician pride." Blackmore. 

RHETORIZE:  To play the orator. Colgrave. 

RHETORIZE:  To represent by a figure of rhetoric, or by personification. Milton. 

RHEUM:  A genus of plants. See Rhubarb. 

RHEUM:  A serous or mucous discharge, especially one from the eves or nose. I have a rheum in mine eyes too. Shak. Salt rheum. (Med.) See Salt rheum, in the Vocab. 

RHEUMATIC:  Of or pertaining to rheumatism; as, rheumatic pains or affections; affected with rheumatism; as, a rheumatic old man; causing rheumatism; as, a rheumatic day. That rheumatic diseases do abound. Shak. 

RHEUMATIC:  One affected with rheumatism. 

RHEUMATISM:  A general disease characterized by painful, often multiple, local inflammations, usually affecting the joints and muscles, but also extending sometimes to the deeper organs, as the heart. Inflammatory rheumatism (Med.), acute rheumatism attended with fever, and attacking usually the larger joints, which become swollen, hot, and very painful.  -- Rheumatism root. (Bot.) See Twinleaf. 

RHEUMATISMAL:  Of or pertaining to rheumatism. 

RHEUMATISMOID:  Of or resembling rheum or rheumatism. 

RHEUMIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, rheum. Rheumic diathesis. See Dartrous diathesis, under Dartrous. 

RHEUMIDES:  The class of skin disease developed by the dartrous diathesis. See under Dartrous. 

RHEUMY:  Of or pertaining to rheum; abounding in, or causing, rheum; affected with rheum. His head and rheumy eyes distill in showers. Dryden. And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air To add unto his sickness. Shak. 

RHIGOLENE:  A mixture of volatile hydrocarbons intermediate between gsolene and cymogene. It is obtained in the purification of crude petroleum, and is used as a refregerant. 

RHIME:  See Rhyme. [Obs.] 

RHINAL:  Og or pertaining to the nose or olfactory organs. 

RHINASTER:  The borele. 

RHINE:  A water course; a ditch. [Written also rean.] [Prov. Eng.] Macaulay. 

RHINENCEPHALIC:  Of or pertaining to the rhinencephalon. 

RHINENCEPHALON:  The division of the brain in front of the prosencephalon, consisting of the two olfactory lobes from which the olfactory nerves arise.  Note: The term is sometimes used for one of the olfactory lobes, the plural being used for the two taken together. 

RHINESTONE:  A colorless stone of high luster, made of paste. It is much used as an inexpensive ornament. 

RHINITIS:  Infllammation of the nose; esp., inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nostrils. 

RHINO:  Gold and silver, or money. [Cant] W. Wagstaffe. As long as the rhino lasted. Marryat.  RHINO- Rhi"no-.  A combining form from Greek the nose, as in rhinolith, rhinology.  RHINOCERIAL; RHINOCERICAL Rhi`no*ce"ri*al, Rhi`no*cer"ic*al, a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the rhinoceros; resembling the rhinoceros, or his horn. Tatler. 

RHINOCEROS:  Any pachyderm belonging to the genera Rhinoceros, Atelodus, and several allied genera of the family Rhinocerotidæ, of which several living, and many extinct, species are known. They are large and powerful, and usually have either one or two stout conical median horns on the snout.  Note: The Indian, or white, and the Javan rhinoceroses (Rhinoceros Indicus and R. Sondaicus) have incisor and canine teeth, but only one horn, and the very thick skin forms shieldlike folds. The two or three African species belong to Atelodus, and have two horns, but lack the dermal folds, and the incisor and canine teeth. The two Malay, or East Indian, two-horned species belong to Ceratohinus, in which incisor and canine teeth are present. See Borele, and Keitloa. Rhinoceros auk (Zoöl.), an auk of the North Pacific (Cerorhina monocrata) which has a deciduous horn on top of the bill.  -- Rhinoceros beetle (Zoöl.), a very large beetle of the genus Dynastes, having a horn on the head.  -- Rhinoceros bird. (Zoöl.) (a) A large hornbill (Buceros rhinoceros), native of the East Indies. It has a large hollow hornlike process on the bill. Called also rhinoceros hornbill. See Hornbill. (b) An African beefeater (Buphaga Africana). It alights on the back of the rhinoceros in search of parasitic insects. 

RHINOCEROTE:  A rhinoceros. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

RHINOCEROTIC:  Of or pertaining to the rhinoceros. [R.]  RHINOLITE; RHINOLITH Rhi"no*lite Rhi"no*lith, n. Etym: [Rhino- + -lite, -lith.] (Med.)  A concretion formed within the cavities of the nose. 

RHINOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to rhinology. 

RHINOLOGIST:  One skilled in rhinology. 

RHINOLOGY:  The science which treats of the nose, and its diseases. 

RHINOLOPHID:  Any species of the genus Rhinilophus, or family Rhinolophidæ, having a horseshoe-shaped nasal crest; a horseshoe bat. 

RHINOLOPHINE:  Like or pertaining to the rhinolophids, or horseshoe bats. 

RHINOPHORE:  One of the two tentacle-like organs on the back of the head or neck of a nudibranch or tectibranch mollusk. They are usually retractile, and often transversely furrowed or plicate, and are regarded as olfactory organs. Called also dorsal tentacles. See Illust. under Pygobranchia, and Opisthobranchia. 

RHINOPLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to rhinoplasty; as, a rhinoplastic operation. 

RHINOPLASTY:  Plastic surgery of the nose to correct deformity or to replace lost tissue. Tissue may be transplanted from the patient's cheek, forehead, arm, etc., or even from another person. 

RHINOPOME:  Any old-world bat of the genus Rhinopoma. The rhinopomes have a long tail extending beyond the web, and inhabit caves and tombs. 

RHINOSCLEROMA:  A rare disease of the skin, characterized by the development of very hard, more or less flattened, prominences, appearing first upon the nose and subsequently upon the neighboring parts, esp. the lips, palate, and throat. J. V. Shoemaker. 

RHINOSCOPE:  A small mirror for use in rhinoscopy. 

RHINOSCOPIC:  Of or pertaining to rhinoscopy. 

RHINOSCOPY:  The examination or study of the soft palate, posterior nares, etc., by means of a laryngoscopic mirror introduced into the pharynx. 

RHINOTHECA:  The sheath of the upper mandible of a bird. 

RHIPIDOGLOSSA:  A division of gastropod mollusks having a large number of long, divergent, hooklike, lingual teeth in each transverse row. It includes the scutibranchs. See Illustration in Appendix. 

RHIPIPTER:  One of the Rhipiptera, a group of insects having wings which fold like a fan; a strepsipter. 

RHIPIPTERAN:  Same as Rhipipter. 

RHIZANTHOUS:  Producing flowers from a rootstock, or apparently from a root. 

RHIZINE:  A rootlike filament or hair growing from the stems of mosses or on lichens; a rhizoid. 

RHIZOCARPOUS:  Having perennial rootstocks or bulbs, but annual flowering stems; -- said of all perennial herbs. 

RHIZOCEPHALA:  A division of Pectostraca including saclike parasites of Crustacea. They adhere by rootlike extensions of the head. See Illusration in Appendix. 

RHIZODONT:  A reptile whose teeth are rooted in sockets, as the crocodile. 

RHIZOGAN:  Prodicing roots. 

RHIZOGEN:  One of a proposed class of flowering plants growning on the roots of other plants and destitute of green foliage. 

RHIZOID:  A rootlike appendage. 

RHIZOMA:  SAme as Rhizome. 

RHIZOMATOUS:  Having the nature or habit of a rhizome or rootstock. 

RHIZOME:  A rootstock. See Rootstock. 

RHIZOPHAGA:  A division of marsupials. The wombat is the type. 

RHIZOPHAGOUS:  Feeding on roots; root-eating. 

RHIZOPHORA:  A genus of trees including the mangrove. See Mangrove. 

RHIZOPHOROUS:  Bearing roots. 

RHIZOPOD:  One of the Rhizopoda.  Note: The rhizopods belonging to the Radiolaria and Foraminifera have been of great geological importance, especially in the Cretaceous and Tertiary periods. Chalk is mostly made from the shells of Foraminifera. The nummulites are the principal ingredient of a limestone which is of great extent in Europe and Asia, and is the material of which some of the pyramids of Egypt are made. The shells are abundant in deepsea mud, and are mostly minute, seldom larger than a small grain of sand, except in the case of the nummulities, which are sometimes an inch in diameter. 

RHIZOPODA:  An extensive class of Protozoa, including those which have pseudopodia, by means of which they move about and take their food. The principal groups are Lobosa (or Amoebea), Helizoa, Radiolaria, and Foraminifera (or Reticularia). See Protozoa. 

RHIZOPODOUS:  Of or pertaining to the rhizopods. 

RHIZOSTOMATA:  A suborder of Medusæ which includes very large species without marginal tentacles, but having large mouth lobes closely united at the edges. See Illust. in Appendix. 

RHIZOSTOME:  One of the Rhizostomata. 

RHIZOTAXIS:  The arrangement of the roots of plants. 

RHOB:  See 1st Rob. 

RHODAMMONIUM:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, rhodium and ammonia; -- said of certain complex compounds. 

RHODANATE:  A salt of rhodanic acid; a sulphocyanate. [Obsoles.] 

RHODANIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called sulphocyanic acid) which frms a red color with ferric salts. [Obsoles.] 

RHODEORETIN:  Same as Convolvuln. 

RHODIAN:  Of or pertaining to Rhodes, an island of the Mediterranean.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Rhodes. 

RHODIC:  Of or pertaining to rhodium; containing rhodium. 

RHODIUM:  A rare element of the light platinum group. It is found in platinum ores, and obtained free as a white inert metal which it is very difficult to fuse. Symbol Rh. Atomic weight 104.1. Specific gravity 12. 

RHODIZONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a colorless crystalline substance (called rhodizonic acid, and carboxylic acid) obtained from potassium carboxide and from certain quinones. It forms brilliant red, yellow, and purple salts. 

RHODOCHROSITE:  Manganese carbonate, a rose-red mineral sometimes occuring crystallized, but generally massive with rhombohedral cleavage like calcite; -- called also dialogite. 

RHODOCRINITE:  A rose encrinite. 

RHODODENDRON:  A genus of shrubs or small trees, often having handsome evergreen leaves, and remarkable for the beauty of their flowers; rosebay. 

RHODOMONTADE:  See Rodomontade. 

RHODOMONTADER:  See Rodomontador. 

RHODONITE:  Manganese spar, or silicate of manganese, a mineral occuring crystallised and in rose-red masses. It is often used as an ornamental stone. 

RHODOPHANE:  The red pigment contained in the inner segments of the cones of the retina in animals. See Chromophane. W. KÜhne. 

RHODOPSIN:  The visual purple. See under Visual. 

RHODOSPERM:  Any seaweed with red spores.  Note: As the name of a subclass, Rhodosperms, or Rhodospermeæ, is synonymous with Florideæ (which see.) 

RHOMB:  An equilateral parallelogram, or quadrilateral figure whose sides are equal and the opposite sides parallel. The angles may be unequal, two being obtuse and two acute, as in the cut, or the angles may be equal, in which case it is usually called a square.  2. (Geom.)  A rhombohedron. Fresnel's rhomb (Opt.), a rhomb or oblique parallelopiped of crown or St. Gobain glass so cut that a ray of light entering one of its faces at right angles shall emerge at right angles at the opposite face, after undergoing within the rhomb, at other faces, two reflections. It is used to produce a ray circularly polarized from a plane-polarized ray, or the reverse. Nichol. 

RHOMBIC:  Same as Orthorhombic. 

RHOMBOGANOID:  A ganoid fish having rhombic enameled scales; one of the Rhomboganoidei. 

RHOMBOGANOIDEI:  Same as Ginglymodi. 

RHOMBOGENE:  A dicyemid which produces infusorialike embryos; -- opposed to nematogene. See Dicyemata. [Written also rhombogen.] 

RHOMBOHEDRAL:  Related to the rhombohedron; presenting the form of a rhombohedron, or a form derivable from a rhombohedron; relating to a system of forms including the rhombohedron and scalenohedron. Rhombohedral iron ore (Min.) See Hematite.  -- Rhombohedral system (Crystallog.), a division of the hexagonal system embracing the rhombohedron, scalenohedron, etc. 

RHOMBOHEDRIC:  Rhombohedral. 

RHOMBOHEDRON:  A solid contained by six rhomboids; a parallelopiped. 

RHOMBOID:  An oblique-angled parallelogram like a rhomb, but having only the opposite sides equal, the length and with being different. 

RHOMBOID:  Same as Rhomboidal. 

RHOMBOIDAL:  Having, or approaching, the shape of a rhomboid. 

RHOMBOIDES:  A rhomboid. [R.] Milton.  RHOMBOID-OVATE Rhom`boid-o"vate, a.  Between rhomboid and ovate, or oval, in shape.  RHOMB SPAR Rhomb" spar`. (Min.)  A variety of dolomite. 

RHOMBUS:  Same as Rhomb, 1. 

RHONCHAL:  Rhonchial. 

RHONCHIAL:  Of or pertaining to a rhonchus; produced by rhonchi. Rhonchial fremitus. Etym: [L. fremitus a dull roaring or murmuring.] (Med.) A vibration of the chest wall that may be felt by the hand laid upon its surface. It is caused in the production of rhonchi in the bronchial tubes. 

RHONCHISONANT:  Making a snorting noise; snorting. [R.] 

RHONCHUS:  An adventitious whistling or snoring sound heard on auscultation of the chest when the air channels are partially obstructed. By some writers the term rhonchus is used as equivalent to râle in its widest sense. See Râle. 

RHOPALIC:  Applied to a line or verse in which each successive word has one more syllable than the preceding. 

RHOPALIUM:  One of the marginal sensory bodies of medusæ belonging to the Discophora. 

RHOPALOCERA:  A division of Lepidoptera including all the butterflies. They differ from other Lepidoptera in having club-shaped antennæ. 

RHOTACISM:  An oversounding, or a misuse, of the letter r; specifically (Phylol.), the tendency, exhibited in the Indo-European languages, to change s to r, as wese to were. 

RHUBARB:  The name of several large perennial herbs of the genus Rheum and order Polygonaceæ.  2. The large and fleshy leafstalks of Rheum Rhaponticum and other species of the same genus. They are pleasantly acid, and are used in cookery. Called also pieplant.  3. (Med.)  The root of several species of Rheum, used much as a cathartic medicine. Monk's rhubarb. (Bot.) See under Monk.  -- Turkey rhubarb (Med.), the roots of Rheum Emodi. 

RHUBARBY:  Like rhubarb. 

RHUMB:  A line which crosses successive meridians at a constant angle; -- called also rhumb line, and loxodromic curve. See Loxodromic. To sail on a rhumb, to sail continuously on one course, following a rhumb line. 

RHUS:  A genus of shrubs and small treets. See Sumac. 

RHUSMA:  A mixtire of caustic lime and orpiment, or tersulphide of arsenic, -- used in the depilation of hides. Knight. 

RHYME:  Correspondence of sound in the terminating words or syllables of two or more verses, one succeeding another immediately or at no great distance. The words or syllables so used must not begin with the same consonant, or if one begins with a vowel the other must begin with a consonant. The vowel sounds and accents must be the same, as also the sounds of the final consonants if there be any. For rhyme with reason may dispense, And sound has right to govern sense. Prior.  3. Verses, usually two, having this correspondence with each other; a couplet; a poem containing rhymes.  4. A word answering in sound to another word. Female rhyme. See under Female.  -- Male rhyme. See under Male.  -- Rhyme or reason, sound or sense.  -- Rhyme royal (Pros.), a stanza of seven decasyllabic verses, of which the first and third, the second, fourth, and fifth, and the sixth and seventh rhyme. 

RHYMELESS:  Destitute of rhyme. Bp. Hall. 

RHYMER:  One who makes rhymes; a versifier; -- generally in contempt; a poor poet; a poetaster. This would make them soon perceive what despicaple creatures our common rhymers and playwriters be. Milton. 

RHYMERY:  The art or habit of making rhymes; rhyming; -- in contempt. 

RHYMESTER:  A rhymer; a maker of poor poetry. Bp. Hall. Byron. 

RHYMIC:  Pertaining to rhyme. 

RHYMIST:  A rhymer; a rhymester. Johnston. 

RHYNCHOBDELLEA:  A suborder of leeches including those that have a protractile proboscis, without jaws. Clepsine is the type. 

RHYNCHOCEPHALA:  An order of reptiles having biconcave vertebræ, immovable quadrate bones, and many other peculiar osteological characters. Hatteria is the only living genus, but numerous fossil genera are known, some of which are among the earliest of reptiles. See Hatteria. Called also Rhynchocephalia. 

RHYNCHOCOELA:  Same as Nemertina.  -- Rhyn`cho*coe"lous, a. 

RHYNCHOLITE:  A fossil cephalopod beak. 

RHYNCHONELLA:  A genus of brachiopods of which some species are still living, while many are found fossil. 

RHYNCHOPHORA:  A group of Coleoptera having a snoutlike head; the snout beetles, curculios, or weevils. 

RHYNCHOPHORE:  One of the Rhynchophora. 

RHYNCHOTA:  Same as Hemiptera. [Written also Rhyncota.] 

RHYOLITE:  A quartzose trachyte, an igneous rock often showing a fluidal structure.  -- Rhy`o*lit"ic, a. 

RHYPAROGRAPHY:  In ancient art, the painting of genre or still-life pictures. 

RHYSIMETER:  An instrument, acting on the principle of Pitot's tube, for measuring the velocity of a fluid current, the speed of a ship, etc. 

RHYTHM:  Movement in musical time, with periodical recurrence of accent; the measured beat or pulse which marks the character and expression of the music; symmetry of movement and accent. Moore (Encyc. )  3. A division of lines into short portions by a regular succession of arses and theses, or percussions and remissions of voice on words or syllables.  4. The harmonious flow of vocal sounds. 

RHYTHMER:  One who writes in rhythm, esp. in poetic rhythm or meter. [R.] One now scarce counted a rhythmer, formerly admitted for a poet. Fuller.  RHYTHMIC; RHYTHMICAL Rhyth"mic, Rhyth"mic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. rhythmicus, F. rhythmique.]  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, rhythm DAy and night I worked my rhythmic thought. Mrs. Browning. Rhythmical accent. (Mus.) See Accent, n., 6 (c). 

RHYTHMICALLY:  In a rhythmical manner. 

RHYTHMICS:  The department of musical science which treats of the length of sounds. 

RHYTHMING:  Writing rhythm; verse making. "The rhythming monk." Fuller. 

RHYTHMLESS:  Being without rhythm. Coleridge. 

RHYTHMOMETER:  An instrument for marking time in musical movements. See Metronome. 

RHYTHMUS:  Rhythm. 

RHYTINA:  See Rytina. 

RIAL:  A Spanish coin. See Real. [Obs.] 

RIAL:  Royal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RIAL:  A gold coin formerly current in England, of the value of ten shillings sterling in the reign of Henry VI., and of fifteen shillings in the reign of Elizabeth. [Spelt also ryal.] Brande & C. 

RIANT:  Laughing; laughable; exciting gayety; gay; merry; delightful to the view, as a landscape. In such cases the sublimity must be drawn from the other sources, with a strict caution, howewer, against anything light and riant. Burke. 

RIB:  One of the curved bones attached to the vertebral column and supporting the lateral walls of the thorax.  Note: In man there are twelve ribs on each side, of which the upper seven are directly connected with the sternum by cartilages, and are called sternal, or true, ribs. The remaining five pairs are called asternal, or false, ribs, and of these each of the three upper pairs is attached to the cartilage of the rib above, while the two lower pairs are free at the ventral ends, and are called floating ribs. See Thorax.  2. That which resembles a rib in form or use. Specifically: (a) (Shipbuilding) One of the timbers, or bars of iron or steel, that branch outward and upward from the keel, to support the skin or planking, and give shape and strength to the vessel. (b) (Mach. & Structures)  A ridge, fin, or wing, as on a plate, cylinder, beam, etc., to strengthen or stiffen it. (c) One of the rods on which the cover of an umbrella is extended. (d) A prominent line or ridge, as in cloth. (e) A longitudinal strip of metal uniting the barrels of a double- barreled gun.  3. (Bot.)  The chief nerve, or one of the chief nerves, of a leaf. (b) Any longitudinal ridge in a plant.  4. (Arch.) (a) In Gothic vaulting, one of the primary members of the vault. These are strong arches, meeting and crossing one another, dividing the whole space into triangles, which are then filled by vaulted construction of lighter material. Hence, an imitation of one of these in wood, plaster, or the like. (b) A projecting mold, or group of moldings, forming with others a pattern, as on a ceiling, ornamental door, or the like.  5. (Mining) (a) Solid coal on the side of a gallery; solid ore in a vein. (b) An elongated pillar of ore or coal left as a support. Raymond.  6. A wife; -- in allusion to Eve, as made out of Adam's rib. [Familiar & Sportive] How many have we known whose heads have been broken with their own rib. Bp. Hall. Chuck rib, a cut of beef immediately in front of the middle rib. See Chuck.  -- Fore ribs, a cut of beef immediately in front of the sirloin.  -- Middle rib, a cut of beef between the chuck rib and the fore ribs.  -- Rib grass. (Bot.) Same as Ribwort. 

RIBALD:  A low, vulgar, brutal, foul-mouthed wretch; a lewd fellow. Spenser. Pope. Ribald was almost a class name in the feudal system . . . He was his patron's parasite, bulldog, and tool . . . It is not to be wondered at that the word rapidly became a synonym for everything ruffianly and brutal. Earle. 

RIBALD:  Low; base; mean; filthy; obscene. The busy day, Waked by the lark, hath roused the ribald crows. Shak. 

RIBALDISH:  Like a ribald. Bp. Hall. 

RIBALDROUS:  Of a ribald quality. [R.] 

RIBALDRY:  The talk of a ribald; low, vulgar language; indecency; obscenity; lewdness; -- now chiefly applied to indecent language, but formerly, as by Chaucer, also to indecent acts or conduct. The ribaldry of his conversation moved Macaulay. 

RIBAN:  See Ribbon. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

RIBAND:  See Ribbon. Riband jasper (Min.), a variety of jasper having stripes of different colors, as red and green. 

RIBAND:  See Rib-band. Totten. 

RIBANDED:  Ribboned. B. Jonson. 

RIBAUD:  A ribald. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 

RIBAUDEQUIN:  Filthy; obscene; ribald. [Obs.] 

RIBAUDRY:  Ribaldry. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RIBAUDY:  Ribaldry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RIBAULD:  A ribald. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RIBBAND:  A ribbon. Pope. 

RIBBAND:  A long, narrow strip of timber bent and bolted longitudinally to the ribs of a vessel, to hold them in position, and give rigidity to the framework. Rib-band lines, oblique longitudinal sectionss of the hull of a vessel. Knight. 

RIBBED:  Intercalated with slate; -- said of a seam of coal. Raymond. 

RIBBING:  An assemblage or arrangement of ribs, as the timberwork for the support of an arch or coved ceiling, the veins in the leaves of some plants, ridges in the fabric of cloth, or the like. 

RIBBON:  Same as Rib-band.  4. pl.  Driving reins. [Cant] London Athenæum.  5. (Her.)  A bearing similar to the bend, but only one eighth as wide.  6. (Spinning)  A silver.  Note: The blue ribbon, and The red ribbon, are phrases often used to designate the British orders of the Garter and of the Bath, respectively, the badges of which are suspended by ribbons of these colors. See Blue ribbon, under Blue. Ribbon fish. (Zoöl.) (a) Any elongated, compressed, ribbon-shaped marine fish of the family Trachypteridæ, especially the species of the genus Trachypterus, and the oarfish (Regelecus Banksii) of the North Atlantic, which is sometimes over twenty feet long. (b) The hairtail, or bladefish. (c) A small compressed marine fish of the genus Cepola, having a long, slender, tapering tail. The European species (C. rubescens) is light red throughout. Called also band fish.  -- Ribbon grass (Bot.), a variety of reed canary grass having the leaves stripped with green and white; -- called also Lady's garters. See Reed grass, under Reed.  -- Ribbon seal (Zoöl.), a North Pacific seal (Histriophoca fasciata). The adult male is dark brown, conspicuously banded and striped with yellowish white.  -- Ribbon snake (Zoöl.), a common North American snake (Eutainia saurita). It is conspicuously striped with bright yellow and dark brown.  -- Ribbon Society, a society in Ireland, founded in the early part of the 19th century in antagonism to the Orangemen. It afterwards became an organization of tennant farmers banded together to prevent eviction by landlords. It took its name from the green ribbon worn by members as a badge.  -- Ribborn worm. (Zoöl.) (a) A tapeworm. (b) A nemertean. 

RIBBON:  To adorn with, or as with, ribbons; to mark with stripes resembling ribbons. 

RIBBONISM:  The principles and practices of the Ribbonmen. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon. 

RIBBONMAN:  A member of the Ribbon Society. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon. 

RIBBONWOOD:  A malvaceous tree (Hoheria populnea) of New Zealand, the bark of which is used for cordage. 

RIBES:  A genus of shrubs including gooseberries and currants of many kinds. 

RIBIBLE:  A small threestringed viol; a rebec. Moore (Encyc. of Music). All can be play on gittern or ribible. Chaucer. 

RIBLESS:  Having no ribs. 

RIBROAST:  To beat soundly. [Slang] 

RIBWORT:  A species of plantain (Plantago lanceolata) with long, narrow, ribbed leaves; -- called also rib grass, ripple grass, ribwort plantain.  -RIC -ric. Etym: [AS rice kingdom, dominion. See Rich.]  A suffix signifying dominion, jurisdiction; as, bishopric, the district over which a bishop exercises authority. 

RICE:  A well-known cereal grass (Oryza sativa) and its seed. This plant is extensively cultivated in warm climates, and the grain forms a large portion of the food of the inhabitants. In America it grows chiefly on low, moist land, which can be overflowed. Ant rice. (Bot.) See under Ant.  -- French rice. (Bot.) See Amelcorn.  -- Indian rice., a tall reedlike water grass (Zizania aquatica), bearing panicles of a long, slender grain, much used for food by North American Indians. It is common in shallow water in the Northern States. Called also water oat, Canadian wild rice, etc.  -- Mountain rice, any species of an American genus (Oryzopsis) of grasses, somewhat resembling rice.  -- Rice bunting. (Zoöl.) Same as Ricebird.  -- Rice hen (Zoöl.), the Florida gallinule.  -- Rice mouse (Zoöl.), a large dark-colored field mouse (Calomys palistris) of the Southern United States.  -- Rice paper, a kind of thin, delicate paper, brought from China, - - used for painting upon, and for the manufacture of fancy articles. It is made by cutting the pith of a large herb (Fatsia papyrifera, related to the ginseng) into one roll or sheet, which is flattened out under pressure. Called also pith paper.  -- Rice troupial (Zoöl.), the bobolink.  -- Rice water, a drink for invalids made by boiling a small quantity of rice in water.  -- Rice-water discharge (Med.), a liquid, resembling rice water in appearance, which is vomited, and discharged from the bowels, in cholera.  -- Rice weevil (Zoöl.), a small beetle (Calandra, or Sitophilus, oryzæ) which destroys rice, wheat, and Indian corn by eating out the interior; -- called also black weevil. 

RICEBIRD:  Any one of numerous species of small white polished marine shells of the genus Olivella. 

RICH:  To enrich. [Obs.] Gower. 

RICHESSE:  Wealth; riches. See the Note under Riches. [Obs.] Some man desireth for to have richesse. Chaucer. The richesse of all heavenly grace. Spenser. 

RICHLY:  In a rich manner. 

RICHNESS:  The quality or state of being rich (in any sense of the adjective). 

RICHWEED:  An herb (Pilea pumila) of the Nettle family, having a smooth, juicy, pellucid stem; -- called also clearweed. 

RICINELAIDIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an isomeric modification of ricinoleic acid obtained as a white crystalline solid. 

RICINELAIDIN:  The glycerin salt of ricinelaidic acid, obtained as a white crystalline waxy substance by treating castor oil with nitrous acid. 

RICINIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, castor oil; formerly, designating an acid now called ricinoleic acid. 

RICININE:  A bitter white crystalline alkaloid extracted from the seeds of the castor-oil plant. 

RICINOLEATE:  A salt of ricinoleic acid; -- formerly called palmate. 

RICINOLEIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a fatty acid analogous to oleic acid, obtained from castor oil as an oily substance, Cricinolic. 

RICINOLEIN:  The glycerin salt of ricinoleic acid, occuring as a characteristic constituent of castor oil; -- formerly called palmin. 

RICINOLIC:  Ricinoleic. 

RICINUS:  A genus of plants of the Spurge family, containing but one species (R. communis), the castor-oil plant. The fruit is three- celled, and contains three large seeds from which castor oil iss expressed. See Palma Christi. 

RICK:  A stack or pile, as of grain, straw, or hay, in the open air, usually protected from wet with thatching. Golden clusters of beehive ricks, rising at intervals beyond the hedgerows. G. Eliot. 

RICK:  To heap up in ricks, as hay, etc. 

RICKER:  A stout pole for use in making a rick, or for a spar to a boat. 

RICKETISH:  Rickety. [Obs.] Fuller. 

RICKETS:  A disease which affects children, and which is characterized by a bulky head, crooked spine and limbs, depressed ribs, enlarged and spongy articular epiphyses, tumid abdomen, and short stature, together with clear and often premature mental faculties. The essential cause of the disease appears to be the nondeposition of earthy salts in the osteoid tissues. Children afflicted with this malady stand and walk unsteadily. Called also rachitis. 

RICKRACK:  A kind of openwork edging made of serpentine braid. 

RICKSTAND:  A flooring or framework on which a rick is made. 

RICOCHET:  A rebound or skipping, as of a ball along the ground when a gun is fired at a low angle of elevation, or of a fiat stone thrown along the surface of water. Ricochet firing (Mil.), the firing of guns or howitzers, usually with small charges, at an elevation of only a few degrees, so as to cause the balls or shells to bound or skip along the ground. 

RICOCHET:  To operate upon by ricochet firing. See Ricochet, n. [R.] 

RICOCHET:  To skip with a rebound or rebounds, as a flat stone on the surface of water, or a cannon ball on the ground. See Ricochet, n. 

RICTAL:  Of or pertaining to the rictus; as, rictal bristles. 

RICTURE:  A gaping. [Obs.] 

RICTUS:  The gape of the mouth, as of birds; -- often resricted to the corners of the mouth. 

RID:  imp. & p. p. of Ride, v. i. [Archaic] He rid to the end of the village, where he alighted. Thackeray. 

RIDABLE:  Suitable for riding; as, a ridable horse; a ridable road. 

RIDDEN:  p. p. of Ride. 

RIDDER:  One who, or that which, rids. 

RIDDLE:  Something proposed to be solved by guessing or conjecture; a puzzling question; an ambiguous proposition; an enigma; hence, anything ambiguous or puzzling. To wring from me, and tell to them, my secret, That solved the riddle which I had proposed. Milton. 'T was a strange riddle of a lady. Hudibras. 

RIDDLE:  To explain; to solve; to unriddle. Riddle me this, and guess him if you can. Dryden. 

RIDDLE:  To speak ambiguously or enigmatically. "Lysander riddels very prettily." Shak. 

RIDDLER:  One who riddles (grain, sand, etc.). 

RIDDLER:  One who speaks in, or propounds, riddles. 

RIDDLING:  Speaking in a riddle or riddles; containing a riddle. "Riddling triplets." Tennyson.  -- Rid"dling, adv. 

RIDE:  To overlap (each other); -- said of bones or fractured fragments. To ride a hobby, to have some favorite occupation or subject of talk.  -- To ride and tie, to take turn with another in labor and rest; -- from the expedient adopted by two persons with one horse, one of whom rides the animal a certain distance, and then ties him for the use of the other, who is coming up on foot. Fielding.  -- To ride down. (a) To ride over; to trample down in riding; to overthrow by riding against; as, to ride down an enemy. (b) (Naut.) To bear down, as on a halyard when hoisting a sail.  -- To ride out (Naut.), to keep safe afloat during (a storm) while riding at anchor or when hove to on the open sea; as, to ride out the gale. to ride the lightning, (Colloq.) to be executed by electrocution in an electric chair. 

RIDEAU:  A small mound of earth; ground slightly elevated; a small ridge. 

RIDEN:  imp. pl. & p. p. of Ride. Chaucer. 

RIDENT:  Laughing. [R.] Thackeray. 

RIDER:  A problem of more than usual difficulty added to another on an examination paper.  6. Etym: [D. rijder.]  A Dutch gold coin having the figure of a man on horseback stamped upon it. His moldy money ! half a dozen riders. J. Fletcher.  7. (Mining)  Rock material in a vein of ore, dividing it.  8. (Shipbuilding)  An interior rib occasionally fixed in a ship's hold, reaching from the keelson to the beame of the lower deck, to strengthen her frame. Totten.  9. (Naut.)  The second tier of casks in a vessel's hold.  10. A small forked weight which straddles the beam of a balance, along which it can be moved in the manner of the weight on a steelyard.  11. A robber. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Drummond. Rider's bone (Med.), a bony deposit in the muscles of the upper and inner part of the thigh, due to the pressure and irritation caused by the saddle in riding. 

RIDERLESS:  Having no rider; as, a riderless horse. H. Kingsley. 

RIDGE:  The intersection of two surface forming a salient angle, especially the angle at the top between the opposite slopes or sides of a roof or a vault.  5. (Fort.)  The highest portion of the glacis proceeding from the salient angle of the covered way. Stocqueler. 

RIDGEBAND:  The part of a harness which passes over the saddle, and supports the shafts of a cart; -- called also ridgerope, and ridger. Halliwell. 

RIDGEBONE:  The backbone. [Obs.] Blood . . . lying cluttered about the ridgebone. Holland. 

RIDGEL:  Same as Ridgelling. 

RIDGELET:  A little ridge. 

RIDGELING:  A half-castrated male animal.  RIDGEPIECE; RIDGEPLATE Ridge"piece`, Ridge"plate`, n.  See Ridgepole. 

RIDGEPOLE:  The timber forming the ridge of a roof, into which the rafters are secured. 

RIDGEROPE:  See Life line (a), under Life. 

RIDGINGLY:  So as to form ridges. 

RIDGY:  Having a ridge or ridges; rising in a ridge. "Lifted on a ridgy wave." Pope. 

RIDICLE:  Ridicule. [Obs.] Foxe. 

RIDICULE:  To laugh at mockingly or disparagingly; to awaken ridicule toward or respecting. I 've known the young, who ridiculed his rage. Goldsmith.  Syn.  -- To deride; banter; rally; burlesque; mock; satirize; lampoon. See Deride. 

RIDICULE:  Ridiculous. [Obs.] This action . . . became so ridicule. Aubrey. 

RIDICULER:  One who ridicules. 

RIDICULIZE:  To make ridiculous; to ridicule. [Obs.] Chapman. 

RIDICULOSITY:  The quality or state of being ridiculous; ridiculousness; also, something ridiculous. [Archaic] Bailey. 

RIDING:  One of the three jurisdictions into which the county of York, in England, is divided; -- formerly under the government of reeve. They are called the North, the East, and the West, Riding. Blackstone. 

RIDOTTO:  A favorite Italian public entertainment, consisting of music and dancing, -- held generally on fast eves. Brande & C. There are to be ridottos at guinea tickets. Walpole. 

RIDOTTO:  To hold ridottos. [R.] J. G. Cooper. 

RIE:  See Rye. [Obs.] Holland. Rie grass. (Bot.) (a) A kind of wild barley (Hordeum pratense). Dr. Prior. (b) Ray grass. Dr. Prior. 

RIEF:  Robbery. [Obs. or Scot.] 

RIETBOC:  The reedbuck, a South African antelope (Cervicapra arundinacea); -- so called from its frequenting dry places covered with high grass or reeds. Its color is yellowish brown. Called also inghalla, and rietbok. 

RIFACIMENTO:  A remaking or recasting; an adaptation, esp. of a literary work or musical composition. 

RIFFLE:  A trough or sluice having cleats, grooves, or steps across the bottom for holding quicksilver and catching particles of gold when auriferous earth is washed; also, one of the cleats, grooves, or steps in such a trough. Also called ripple. 

RIFFLER:  A curved file used in carving wool and marble. 

RIFFRAFF:  Sweepings; refuse; the lowest order of society. Beau & Fl. 

RIFLE:  A body of soldiers armed with rifles.  3. A strip of wood covered with emery or a similar material, used for sharpening scythes. Rifle pit (Mil.), a trench for sheltering sharpshooters. 

RIFLEBIRD:  Any one of several species of beautiful birds of Australia and New Guinea, of the genera Ptiloris and Craspidophora, allied to the paradise birds.  Note: The largest and best known species is Ptiloris paradisea of Australia. Its general color is rich velvety brown, glossed with lilac; the under parts are varied with rich olive green, and the head, throat, and two middle tail feathers are brilliant metallic green. 

RIFLEMAN:  A soldier armed with a rifle. 

RIFLER:  One who rifles; a robber. 

RIFT:  p. p. of Rive. Spenser. 

RIFT:  To cleave; to rive; to split; as, to rift an oak or a rock; to rift the clouds. Longfellow. To dwell these rifted rocks between. Wordsworth. 

RIFTER:  A rafter. [Obs.] Holland. 

RIG:  A ridge. [Prov. or Scott.] 

RIG:  The peculiar fitting in shape, number, and arrangement of sails and masts, by which different types of vessels are distinguished; as, schooner rig, ship rig, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.  2. Dress; esp., odd or fanciful clothing. [Colloq.] 

RIG:  To play the wanton; to act in an unbecoming manner; to play tricks. "Rigging and rifling all ways." Chapman. 

RIG:  To make free with; hence, to steal; to pilfer. [Obs. or Prov.] Tusser. To rig the market (Stock Exchange), to raise or lower market prices, as by some fraud or trick. [Cant] 

RIGADOON:  A gay, lively dance for one couple, -- said to have been borrowed from Provence in France. W. Irving. Whose dancing dogs in rigadoons excel. Wolcott.  RIGA FIR Ri"ga fir` Etym: [So called from Riga, a city in Russia.] (Bot.)  A species of pine (Pinus sylvestris), and its wood, which affords a valuable timber; -- called also Scotch pine, and red or yellow deal. It grows in all parts of Europe, in the Caucasus, and in Siberia. 

RIGARION:  See Irrigation. [Obs.] 

RIGEL:  A fixed star of the first magnitude in the left foot of the constellation Orion. [Written also Regel.] 

RIGESCENT:  Growing stiff or numb. 

RIGGING:  DRess; tackle; especially (Naut.), the ropes, chains, etc., that support the masts and spars of a vessel, and serve as purchases for adjusting the sails, etc. See Illustr. of Ship and Sails. Running rigging (Naut.), all those ropes used in bracing the yards, making and shortening sail, etc., such as braces, sheets, halyards, clew lines, and the like.  -- Standing rigging (Naut.), the shrouds and stays. 

RIGGISH:  Like a rig or wanton. [Obs.] "Riggish and unmaidenly." Bp. Hall. 

RIGGLE:  See Wriggle. 

RIGGLE:  The European lance fish. [Prov. Eng.] 

RIGHT:  Hence, to regain an upright position, as a ship or boat, after careening.  RIGHT-ABOUT Right"-a*bout`, n. Etym: [Right, adv. + about, adv.]  A turning directly about by the right, so as to face in the opposite direction; also, the quarter directly opposite; as, to turn to the right-about. To send to the right-about, to cause to turn toward the opposite point or quarter; -- hence, of troops, to cause to turn and retreat. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott.  RIGHT-ANGLED Right"-an`gled, a.  Containing a right angle or right angles; as, a right-angled triangle. 

RIGHTEN:  To do justice to. [Obs.] Relieve [marginal reading, righten] the opressed. Isa. i. 17. 

RIGHTEOUS:  Doing, or according with, that which is right; yielding to all their due; just; equitable; especially, free from wrong, guilt, or sin; holy; as, a righteous man or act; a righteous retribution. Fearless in his righteous cause. Milton.  Syn.  -- Upright; just; godly; holy; uncorrupt; virtuous; honest; equitable; rightful. 

RIGHTEOUSED:  Made righteous. [Obs.] 

RIGHTEOUSLY:  In a righteous manner; as, to judge righteously. 

RIGHTEOUSNESS:  The state of being right with God; justification; the work of Christ, which is the ground justification. There are two kinds of Christian righteousness: the one without us, which we have by imputation; the other in us, which consisteth of faith, hope, and charity, and other Christian virtues. Hooker. Only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us, and received by faith alone. Westminster Catechism.  Syn.  -- Uprightness; holiness; godliness; equity; justice; rightfulness; integryty; honesty; faithfulness. 

RIGHTER:  One who sets right; one who does justice or redresses wrong. Shelton. 

RIGHTFULLY:  According to right or justice. 

RIGHTFULNESS:  Having the whorls rising from left to right; dextral; -- said of spiral shells. See Illust. of Scalaria. Right-handed screw, a screw, the threads of which, like those of a common wood screw, wind spirally in such a direction that screw advances away from the observer when turned with a right-handed movement in a fixed nut.  RIGHT-HANDEDNESS Right"-hand`ed*ness, n.  The state or quality of being right-handed; hence, skill; dexterity.  RIGHT-HEARTED Right"-heart`ed, a.  Having a right heart or disposition.  -- Right"-heart`ed*ness, n. 

RIGHTLESS:  Destitute of right. Sylvester.  RIGHT-LINED Right"-lined`, a.  Formed by right lines; rectilineal; as, a right-lined angle. 

RIGHTLY:  Having a right or honest mind.  -- Right"-mind`ed*ness, n. 

RIGHTNESS:  Straightness; as, the rightness of a line. Bacon.  2. The quality or state of being right; right relation. The craving for rightness with God. J. C. Shairp.  RIGHT-RUNNING Right"-run`ning, a.  Straight; direct. 

RIGHTWARD:  Toward the right. Rightward and leftward rise the rocks. Southey.  RIGHT WHALE Right" whale`. (Zoöl.) (a) The bowhead, Arctic, or Greenland whale (Balæna mysticetus), from whose mouth the best whalebone is obtained. (b) Any other whale that produces valuable whalebone, as the Atlantic, or Biscay, right whale (Balæna cisarctica), and the Pacific right whale (B. Sieboldii); a bone whale. Pygmy right whale (Zoöl.), a small New Zealand whale (Neobalæna marginata) which is only about sixteen feet long. It produces short, but very elastic and tough, whalebone. 

RIGHTWISE:  Righteous. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

RIGHTWISE:  To make righteous. [Obs.] 

RIGHTWISELY:  Righteously. [Obs.] 

RIGHTWISENESS:  Righteousness. [Obs.] In doom and eke in rightwisnesse. Chaucer. 

RIGIDLY:  In a rigid manner; stiffly. 

RIGIDNESS:  The quality or state of being rigid. 

RIGIDULOUS:  Somewhat rigid or stiff; as, a rigidulous bristle. 

RIGLET:  See Reglet. 

RIGMAROLE:  A succession of confused or nonsencial statements; foolish talk; nonsense. [Colloq.] Often one's dear friend talks something which one scruples to call rigmarole. De Quincey. 

RIGMAROLE:  Consisting of rigmarole; frovolous; nonsensical; foolish. 

RIGOL:  A circle; hence, a diadem. [Obs.] Shak. 

RIGOLETTE:  A woman's light scarflike head covering, usually knit or crocheted of wool. 

RIGOLL:  A musical instrument formerly in use, consisting of several sticks bound together, but separated by beads, and played with a stick with a ball at its end. Moore (Encyc. of Music. ). 

RIGOR:  A sense of chilliness, with contraction of the skin; a convulsive shuddering or tremor, as in the chill preceeding a fever. Rigor caloris ( Etym: [L., rigor of heat] (Physiol.), a form of rigor mortis induced by heat, as when the muscle of a mammal is heated to about 50ºC.  -- Rigor mortis ( Etym: [L. , rigor of death] , death stiffening; the rigidity of the muscles that occurs at death and lasts till decomposition sets in. It is due to the formation of myosin by the coagulation of the contents of the individual muscle fibers. 

RIGOR:  See 1st Rigor, 2.  3. Severity of climate or season; inclemency; as, the rigor of the storm; the rigors of winter.  4. Stiffness of opinion or temper; rugged sternness; hardness; relentless severity; hard-heartedness; cruelty. All his rigor is turned to grief and pity. Denham. If I shall be condemn'd Upon surmises, . . . I tell you 'T is rigor and not law. Shak.  5. Exactness without allowance, deviation, or indulgence; strictness; as, the rigor of criticism; to execute a law with rigor; to enforce moral duties with rigor; -- opposed to Ant: lenity.  6. Severity of life; austerity; voluntary submission to pain, abstinence, or mortification. The prince lived in this convent with all the rigor and austerity of a capuchin. Addison.  7. Violence; force; fury. [Obs.] Whose raging rigor neither steel nor brass could stay. Spenser.  Syn.  -- Stiffness; rigidness; inflexibility; severity; austerity; sternness; harshness; strictness; exactness. 

RIGORIST:  One who is rigorous; -- sometimes applied to an extreme Jansenist. 

RIGSDAG:  See Legislature, Denmark. 

RIGSDALER:  A Danish coin worth about fifty-four cents. It was former unit of value in Denmark.  RIG-VEDA Rig`-Ve"da.  See Veda. 

RIKSDALER:  A Swedish coin worth about twenty-seven cents. It was formerly the unit of value in Sweden. 

RILIEVO:  Same as Relief, n.,5. 

RILL:  See Rille. 

RILL:  To run a small stream. [R.] Prior. 

RILLE:  One of certain narrow, crooked valleys seen, by aid of the telescope, on the surface of the moon. 

RILLET:  A little rill. Burton. 

RILY:  Roily. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 

RIM:  To furnish with a rim; to border. 

RIMA:  A narrow and elongated aperture; a cleft; a fissure.  RIMAU DAHAN Ri"mau da"han. Etym: [From the native Oriental name.] (Zoöl.)  The clouded tiger cat (Felis marmorata) of Southern Asia and the East Indies. 

RIMBASE:  A short cylinder connecting a trunnion with the body of a cannon. See Illust. of Cannon. 

RIME:  A rent or long aperture; a chink; a fissure; a crack. Sir T. Browne. 

RIME:  White frost; hoarfrost; congealed dew or vapor. The trees were now covered with rime. De Quincey. 

RIME:  To freeze or congeal into hoarfrost. 

RIME:  A step or round of a ladder; a rung. 

RIME:  Rhyme. See Rhyme. Coleridge. Landor.  Note: This spelling, which is etymologically preferable, is coming into use again. 

RIME:  To rhyme. See Rhyme. 

RIMER:  A rhymer; a versifier. 

RIMER:  A tool for shaping the rimes of a ladder. 

RIMEY:  To compose in rhyme; to versify. [Obs.] [Lays] rimeyed in their first Breton tongue. Chaucer.  RIM-FIRE Rim"-fire`, a.  Having the percussion fulminate in a rim surrounding the base, distinguished from center-fire; -- said of cartridges; also, using rim-fire cartridges; as, a rim-fire gun. Such cartridges are now little used. 

RIMMER:  An implement for cutting, trimming, or ornamenting the rim of anything, as the edges of pies, etc.; also, a reamer. Knight. 

RIMOSE:  Having long and nearly parallel clefts or chinks, like those in the bark of trees. 

RIMOSELY:  In a rimose manner. 

RIMOSITY:  State of being rimose. 

RIMOUS:  Rimose. 

RIMPLE:  A fold or wrinkle. See Rumple. 

RIMPLE:  To rumple; to wrinkle. 

RIMY:  Abounding with rime; frosty. 

RINCON:  An interior corner; a nook; hence, an angular recess or hollow bend in a mountain, river, cliff, or the like. [Western & Southern U. S.] D. S. Jordan. 

RIND:  The external covering or coat, as of flesh, fruit, trees, etc.; skin; hide; bark; peel; shell. Thou canst not touch the freedom of my mind With all thy charms, although this corporal rind Thou hast immanacled. Milton. Sweetest nurind. Shak. 

RIND:  To remove the rind of; to bark. [R.] 

RINDERPEST:  A highly contagious distemper or murrain, affecting neat cattle, and less commonly sheep and goats; -- called also cattle plague, Russian cattle plague, and steppe murrain. 

RINDLE:  A small water course or gutter. Ash. 

RINDLESS:  Destitute of a rind. 

RINDY:  Having a rind or skin. Ash. 

RINE:  See Rind. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RINED:  Having a rind [Obs.] Milton. 

RINFORZANDO:  Increasing; strengthening; -- a direction indicating a sudden increase of force (abbreviated rf., rfz.) Cf. Forzando, and Sforzando. 

RING:  A circle, or a circular line, or anything in the form of a circular line or hoop.  2. Specifically, a circular ornament of gold or other precious material worn on the finger, or attached to the ear, the nose, or some other part of the person; as, a wedding ring. Upon his thumb he had of gold a ring. Chaucer. The dearest ring in Venice will I give you. Shak.  3. A circular area in which races are or run or other sports are performed; an arena. Place me. O, place me in the dusty ring, Where youthful charioteers contened for glory. E. Smith.  4. An inclosed space in which pugilists fight; hence, figuratively, prize fighting. "The road was an institution, the ring was an institution." Thackeray.  5. A circular group of persons. And hears the Muses in a Aye round about Jove's alter sing. Milton.  6. (Geom.) (a) The plane figure included between the circumferences of two concentric circles. (b) The solid generated by the revolution of a circle, or other figure, about an exterior straight line (as an axis) lying in the same plane as the circle or other figure.  7. (Astron. & Navigation)  An instrument, formerly used for taking the sun's altitude, consisting of a brass ring suspended by a swivel, with a hole at one side through which a solar ray entering indicated the altitude on the graduated inner surface opposite.  8. (Bot.)  An elastic band partly or wholly encircling the spore cases of ferns. See Illust. of Sporangium.  9. A clique; an exclusive combination of persons for a selfish purpose, as to control the market, distribute offices, obtain contracts, etc. The ruling ring at Constantinople. E. A. Freeman. Ring armor, armor composed of rings of metal. See Ring mail, below, and Chain mail, under Chain.  -- Ring blackbird (Zoöl.), the ring ousel.  -- Ring canal (Zoöl.), the circular water tube which surrounds the esophagus of echinoderms.  -- Ring dotterel, or Ringed dotterel. (Zoöl.) See Dotterel, and Illust. of Pressiroster.  -- Ring dropper, a sharper who pretends to have found a ring (dropped by himself), and tries to induce another to buy it as valuable, it being worthless.  -- Ring fence. See under Fence.  -- Ring finger, the third finger of the left hand, or the next the little finger, on which the ring is placed in marriage.  -- Ring formula (Chem.), a graphic formula in the shape of a closed ring, as in the case of benzene, pyridine, etc. See Illust. under Benzene.  -- Ring mail, a kind of mail made of small steel rings sewed upon a garment of leather or of cloth.  -- Ring micrometer. (Astron.) See Circular micrometer, under Micrometer.  -- Saturn's rings. See Saturn.  -- Ring ousel. (Zoöl.) See Ousel.  -- Ring parrot (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Old World parrakeets having a red ring around the neck, especially Palæornis torquatus, common in India, and P. Alexandri of Java.  -- Ring plover. (Zoöl.) (a) The ringed dotterel. (b) Any one of several small American plovers having a dark ring around the neck, as the semipalmated plover (Ægialitis semipalmata).  -- Ring snake (Zoöl.), a small harmless American snake (Diadophis punctatus) having a white ring around the neck. The back is ash- colored, or sage green, the belly of an orange red.  -- Ring stopper. (Naut.) See under Stopper.  -- Ring thrush (Zoöl.), the ring ousel.  -- The prize ring, the ring in which prize fighters contend; prize fighters, collectively.  -- The ring. (a) The body of sporting men who bet on horse races. [Eng.] (b) The prize ring. 

RING:  To make a ring around by cutting away the bark; to girdle; as, to ring branches or roots.  3. To fit with a ring or with rings, as the fingers, or a swine's snout. 

RING:  To rise in the air spirally.  RING ARMATURE Ring armature. (Elec.)  An armature for a dynamo or motor having the conductors wound on a ring. 

RINGBILL:  The ring-necked scaup duck; -- called also ring-billed blackhead. See Scaup. 

RINGBIRD:  The reed bunting. It has a collar of white feathers. Called also ring bunting. 

RINGBOLT:  An eyebolt having a ring through the eye. 

RINGBONE:  A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter between or on the small pastern and the great pastern bones. J. H. Walsh. 

RINGDOVE:  A European wild pigeon (Columba palumbus) having a white crescent on each side of the neck, whence the name. Called also wood pigeon, and cushat. 

RINGENT:  Having the lips widely separated and gaping like an open mouth; as a ringent bilabiate corolla. 

RINGER:  A crowbar. Simmonds. 

RINGER:  A horse that is not entitled to take part in a race, but is fraudulently got into it. 

RINGHEAD:  An instrument used for stretching woolen cloth. 

RINGING:  a & n. from Ring, v. Ringing engine, a simple form of pile driver in which the monkey is lifted by men pulling on ropes. 

RINGINGLY:  In a ringing manner. 

RINGLESTONE:  The ringed dotterel, or ring plover. [Prov.Eng.] 

RINGMAN:  The ring finger. [Obs.] Ascham 

RINGMASTER:  One in charge of the performances (as of horses) within the ring in a circus. 

RINGNECK:  Any one of several species of small plovers of the genus Ægialitis, having a ring around the neck. The ring is black in summer, but becomes brown or gray in winter. The semipalmated plover (Æ. semipalmata) and the piping plover (Æ. meloda) are common North American species. Called also ring plover, and ring-necked plover.  2. (Zoöl.)  The ring-necked duck.  RING-NECKED Ring"-necked`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having a well defined ring of color around the neck. Ring- necked duck (Zool.), an American scaup duck (Aythya collaris). The head, neck, and breast of the adult male are black, and a narrow, but conspicuous, red ring encircles the neck. This ring is absent in the female. Called also ring-neck, ring-necked blackhead, ringbill, tufted duck, and black jack. 

RINGSAIL:  See Ringtail,2. 

RINGSTRAKED:  Ring-streaked. Cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted. Gen. xxx. 39.  RING-STREAKED Ring"-streaked`, a.  Having circular streaks or lines on the body; as, ring-streaked goats. 

RINGTAIL:  A bird having a distinct band of color across the tail, as the hen harrier.  2. (Naut.)  A light sail set abaft and beyong the leech of a boom-and-gaff sail; -- called also ringsail. Ringtail boom (Naut.), a spar which is rigged on a boom for setting a ringtail.  RING-TAILED Ring"-tailed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the tail crossed by conspicuous bands of color. Ring- tailed cat (Zoöl.), the cacomixle.  -- Ring-tailed eagle (Zoöl.), a young golden eagle. 

RINGTOSS:  A game in which the object is to toss a ring so that it will catch upon an upright stick.  RING WINDING Ring winding. (Elec.)  Armature winding in which the wire is wound round the outer and inner surfaces alternately of an annular or cylindrical core. 

RINGWORM:  A contagious affection of the skin due to the presence of a vegetable parasite, and forming ring-shaped discolored patches covered with vesicles or powdery scales. It occurs either on the body, the face, or the scalp. Different varieties are distinguished as Tinea circinata, Tinea tonsurans, etc., but all are caused by the same parasite (a species of Trichophyton). 

RINKER:  One who skates at a rink. [Colloq.] 

RINKING:  Skating in a rink. [Colloq.] 

RINSE:  The act of rinsing. 

RINSER:  One who, or that which, rinses. 

RIOT:  The tumultuous disturbance of the public peace by an unlawful assembly of three or more persons in the execution of some private object. To run riot, to act wantonly or without restraint. 

RIOT:  To disturb the peace; to raise an uproar or sedition. See Riot, n., 3. Johnson. 

RIOT:  To spend or pass in riot. [He] had rioted his life out. Tennyson. 

RIOTER:  One who engages in a riot. See Riot, n., 3. 

RIOTISE:  Excess; tumult; revelry. [Obs.] His life he led in lawless riotise. Spenser. 

RIOTOUR:  A rioter. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RIOTRY:  The act or practice of rioting; riot. "Electioneering riotry." Walpole. 

RIP:  A wicker fish basket. 

RIP:  A term applied to a mean, worthless thing or person, as to a scamp, a debauchee, or a prostitute, or a worn-out horse. [Slang.]  3. A body of water made rough by the meeting of opposing tides or currents. 

RIPARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the bank of a river; as, riparian rights. 

RIPARIOUS:  Growing along the banks of rivers; riparian.  RIP CORD Rip cord. (Aëronautics)  A cord by which the gas bag of a balloon may be ripped open for a limited distance to release the gas quickly and so cause immediate descent. 

RIPE:  The bank of a river. [Obs.] 

RIPE:  To ripen; to grow ripe. [Obs.] 

RIPE:  To mature; to ripen. [Obs.] Shak. 

RIPELY:  Maturely; at the fit time. Shak. 

RIPENESS:  The state or quality of being ripe; maturity;; completeness; perfection; as, the ripeness of grain; ripeness of manhood; ripeness of judgment. Time, which made them their fame outlive, To Cowley scarce did ripeness give. Denham. 

RIPIDOLITE:  A translucent mineral of a green color and micaceous structure, belonging to the chlorite group; a hydrous silicate of alumina, magnesia, and iron; -- called also clinochlore. 

RIPIENIST:  A player in the ripieno portion of an orchestra. See Ripieno. 

RIPIENO:  Filling up; supplementary; supernumerary; -- a term applied to those instruments which only swell the mass or tutti of an orchestra, but are not obbligato.  RIPLER; RIPPER Rip"ler, Rip"per, n. Etym: [Cf. Rip a basket, or Riparian.] (O.E. Law)  One who brings fish from the seacoast to markets in inland towns. [Obs.] But what's the action we are for now Robbing a ripper of his fish. Beau & Fl. 

RIPPER:  An act or a bill conferring upon a chief executive, as a governor or mayor, large powers of appointment and removal of heads of departments or other subordinate officials. [Polit. Cant, U. S.]  RIPPING CORD Rip"ping cord. (Aëronautics)  = Rip cord.  RIPPING PANEL Ripping panel. (Aëronautics)  A long patch, on a balloon, to be ripped off, by the rip cord, at landing, in order to allow the immediate escape of gas and instant deflation of the bag.  RIPPING STRIP Ripping strip.  = Ripping panel. 

RIPPLE:  An implement, with teeth like those of a comb, for removing the seeds and seed vessels from flax, broom corn, etc. 

RIPPLE:  To fret or dimple, as the surface of running water; to cover with small waves or undulations; as, the breeze rippled the lake. 

RIPPLE:  HAving ripple marks. 

RIPPLET:  A small ripple. 

RIPPLINGLY:  In a rippling manner. 

RIPPLY:  Having ripples; as, ripply water; hence, resembling the sound of rippling water; as, ripply laughter; a ripply cove. Keats. 

RIPRAP:  A foundation or sustaining wall of stones thrown together without order, as in deep water or on a soft bottom. 

RIPRAP:  To form a riprap in or upon. 

RIPSAW:  A handsaw with coarse teeth which have but a slight set, used for cutting wood in the direction of the fiber; -- called also ripping saw. 

RIPTOWEL:  A gratuity given to tenants after they had reaped their lord's corn. [Obs.] 

RIS:  A bough or branch; a twig. [Obs.] As white as is the blossom upon the ris. Chaucer. 

RISE:  To be lifted, or to admit of being lifted, from the imposing stone without dropping any of the type; -- said of a form.  Syn.  -- To arise; mount; ascend; climb; scale.  -- Rise, Appreciate. Some in America use the word appreciate for "rise in value;" as, stocks appreciate, money appreciates, etc. This use is not unknown in England, but it is less common there. It is undesirable, because rise sufficiently expresses the idea, and appreciate has its own distinctive meaning, which ought not to be confused with one so entirely different. 

RISER:  A shaft excavated from below upward.  4. (Founding)  A feed head. See under Feed, n. 

RISH:  A rush (the plant). [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RISIBILITY:  The quality of being risible; as, risibility is peculiar to the human species. A strong and obvious disposition to risibility. Sir W. Scott. 

RISING:  More than; exceeding; upwards of; as, a horse rising six years of age. [Colloq. & Low, U.S.] 

RISK:  Hazard of loss; liabillity to loss in property. To run a risk, to incur hazard; to encounter danger.  Syn.  -- Danger; hazard; peril; jeopardy; exposure. See Danger. 

RISKER:  One who risks or hazards. Hudibras. 

RISKFUL:  Risky. [R.] Geddes. 

RISKY:  Attended with risk or danger; hazardous. "A risky matter." W. Collins. Generalization are always risky. Lowell. 

RISORIAL:  Pertaining to, or producing, laughter; as, the risorial muscles. 

RISOTTO:  A kind of pottage.  RISQUE; RISQUEE Ris`qué", a. masc., Ris`quée", a. fem.,. [F., p.p. of risquer to risk.]  Hazardous; risky; esp., fig., verging upon impropriety; dangerously close to, or suggestive of, what is indecent or of doubtful morality; as, a risqué story.  Henry Austin. 

RISSE:  imp. of Rise. B. Jonson. 

RISSOID:  Any one of very numerous species of small spiral gastropods of the genus Rissoa, or family Rissoidæ, found both in fresh and salt water. 

RISSOLE:  A small ball of rich minced meat or fish, covered with pastry and fried. 

RIST:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Rise, contracted from riseth. Chaucer. 

RIT:  3d pers. ssing. pres. of Ride, contracted from rideth. Chaucer. 

RITARDANDO:  Retarding; -- a direction for slower time; rallentado. 

RITE:  The act of performing divine or solemn service, as established by law, precept, or custom; a formal act of religion or other solemn duty; a solemn observance; a ceremony; as, the rites of freemasonry. He looked with indifference on rites, names, and forms of ecclesiastical polity. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Form; ceremony; observance; ordinance. 

RITENUTO:  Held back; holding back; ritardando.  RITORNELLE; RITORNELLO Rit`or*nelle", Ri`tor*nel"lo, n. Etym: [It. ritornello, dim. of ritorno return, fr. ritornare to return: cf. F. ritournelle.] (Mus.) (a) A short return or repetition; a concluding symphony to an air, often consisting of the burden of the song. (a) A short intermediate symphony, or instrumental passage, in the course of a vocal piece; an interlude. 

RITRATTO:  A picture. Sterne. 

RITUAL:  Of or pertaining to rites or ritual; as, ritual service or sacrifices; the ritual law. 

RITUALIST:  One skilled un, or attached to, a ritual; one who advocates or practices ritualism. 

RITUALISTIC:  Pertaining to, or in accordance with, a ritual; adhering to ritualism. 

RITUALLY:  By rites, or by a particular rite. 

RIVAGE:  A duty paid to the crown for the passage of vessels on certain rivers. 

RIVAL:  Having the same pretensions or claims; standing in competition for superiority; as, rival lovers; rival claims or pretensions. The strenuous conflicts and alternate victories of two rival confederacies of statesmen. Macaulay. 

RIVAL:  To be in rivalry. [Obs.] Shak. 

RIVALESS:  A female rival. [Obs.] Richardson. 

RIVALRY:  The act of rivaling, or the state of being a rival; a competition. "Keen contention and eager rivalries." Jeffrey.  Syn.  -- Emulation; competition. See Emulation. 

RIVALSHIP:  Rivalry. [R.] B. Jonson. 

RIVE:  To rend asunder by force; to split; to cleave; as, to rive timber for rails or shingles. I shall ryve him through the sides twain. Chaucer. The scolding winds have rived the knotty oaks. Shak. Brutus hath rived my heart. Shak. 

RIVE:  To be split or rent asunder. Freestone rives, splits, and breaks in any direction. Woodward. 

RIVE:  A place torn; a rent; a rift. [Prov. Eng.] 

RIVEL:  To contract into wrinkles; to shrivel; to shrink; as, riveled fruit; riveled flowers. [Obs.] Pope. "Riveled parchments." Walpole. 

RIVEL:  A wrinkle; a rimple. [Obs.] Holland. 

RIVEN:  p. p. & a. from Rive. 

RIVER:  One who rives or splits. 

RIVER:  To hawk by the side of a river; to fly hawks at river fowl. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

RIVERED:  Supplied with rivers; as, a well rivered country. 

RIVERET:  A rivulet. [Obs.] Drayton. 

RIVERHOOD:  The quality or state of being a river. "Useful riverhood." H. Miller. 

RIVERLING:  A rivulet. [R.] Sylvester. 

RIVERSIDE:  The side or bank of a river. 

RIVERY:  Having rivers; as, a rivery country. Drayton. 

RIVET:  A metallic pin with a head, used for uniting two plates or pieces of material together, by passing it through them and then beating or pressing down the point so that it shall spread out and form a second head; a pin or bolt headed or clinched at both ends. With busy hammers closing rivets up. Shak. Rivet joint, or Riveted joint, a joint between two or more pieces secured by rivets. 

RIVETER:  One who rivets. 

RIVIERE:  A necklace of diamonds or other precious stones, esp. one of several strings. 

RIVOSE:  Marked with sinuate and irregular furrows. 

RIVULET:  A small stream or brook; a streamlet. By fountain or by shady rivulet He sought them. Milton. 

RIXATION:  A brawl or quarrel. [Obs.] 

RIXATRIX:  A scolding or quarrelsome woman; a scold. Burrill. 

RIXDALER:  A Dutch silver coin, worth about $1.00.  RIX-DOLLAR Rix"-dol`lar, n. Etym: [Sw. riksdaler, or Dan. rigsdaler, or D. rijksdaalder, or G. reichsthaler, literally, dollar of the empire or realm, fr. words akin to E. rich, and dollar. See Rich, Dollar.]  A name given to several different silver coins of Denmark, Holland, Sweden,, NOrway, etc., varying in value from about 30 cents to $1.10; also, a British coin worth about 36 cents, used in Ceylon and at the Cape of Good Hope. See Rigsdaler, Riksdaler, and Rixdaler.  Note: Most of these pieces are now no longer coined, but some remain in circulation. 

RIZZAR:  To dry in the sun; as, rizzared haddock. [Scot.] 

ROACH:  A cockroach. 

ROACH:  A convex curve or arch cut in the edge of a sail to prevent chafing, or to secure a better fit. As sound as a roach Etym: [roach perhaps being a corruption of a F. roche a rock], perfectly sound. 

ROACH:  Having a back like that of roach; -- said of a horse whose back a convex instead of a concave curve. 

ROAD:  A place where ships may ride at anchor at some distance from the shore; a roadstead; -- often in the plural; as, Hampton Roads. Shak.  Now strike your saile, ye jolly mariners, For we be come unto a quiet rode [road]. Spenser. On, or Upon, the road, traveling or passing over a road; coming or going; on the way. My hat and wig will soon be here, They are upon the road. Cowper. -- Road agent, a highwayman, especially on the stage routes of the unsettled western parts of the United States; -- a humorous euphemism. [Western U.S.] The highway robber -- road agent he is quaintly called. The century. -- Road book, a quidebook in respect to roads and distances.  -- Road metal, the broken, stone used in macadamizing roads.  -- Road roller, a heavy roller, or combinations of rollers, for making earth, macadam, or concrete roads smooth and compact.  -- often driven by steam.  -- Road runner (Zoöl.), the chaparral cock.  -- Road steamer, a locomotive engine adapted to running on common roads.  -- To go on the road, to engage in the business of a commercial traveler. [Colloq.] -- To take the road, to begin or engage in traveling.  -- To take to the road, to engage in robbery upon the highways.  Syn.  -- Way; highway; street; lane; pathway; route; passage; course. See Way. 

ROADBED:  In railroads, the bed or foundation on which the superstructure (ties, rails, etc.) rests; in common roads, the whole material laid in place and ready for travel. 

ROADLESS:  Destitute of roads. 

ROADMAKER:  One who makes roads. 

ROADSIDE:  Land adjoining a road or highway; the part of a road or highway that borders the traveled part. Also used ajectively. 

ROADSTEAD:  An anchorage off shore. Same as Road, 4. Moored in the neighboring roadstead. Longfellow. 

ROADSTER:  A clumsy vessel that works its way from one anchorage to another by means of the tides. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  2. A horse that is accustomed to traveling on the high road, or is suitable for use on ordinary roads. A sound, swift, well-fed hunter and roadster. Thackeray.  3. A bicycle or tricycle adapted for common roads rather than for the racing track.  4. One who drives much; a coach driver. [Eng.]  5. A hunter who keeps to the roads instead of following the hounds across country. [Eng. Slang.] 

ROADWAY:  A road; especially, the part traveled by carriages. Shak. 

ROAM:  To go from place to place without any certain purpose or direction; to rove; to wander. He roameth to the carpenter's house. Chaucer. Daphne roaming through a thorny wood. Shak.  Syn.  -- To wander; rove; range; stroll; ramble. 

ROAM:  To range or wander over. And now wild beasts came forth the woods to roam. Milton. 

ROAM:  The act of roaming; a wandering; a ramble; as, he began his roam o'er hill amd dale. Milton. 

ROAMER:  One who roams; a wanderer. 

ROAR:  To cry aloud; to proclaim loudly. This last action will roar thy infamy. Ford. 

ROAR:  The sound of roaring. Specifically: (a) The deep, loud cry of a wild beast; as, the roar of a lion. (b) The cry of one in pain, distress, anger, or the like. (c) A loud, continuous, and confused sound; as, the roar of a cannon, of the wind, or the waves; the roar of ocean. Arm! arm! it is, it is the cannon's opening roar! Byron.  (d) A boisterous outcry or shouting, as in mirth. Pit, boxes, and galleries were in a constant roar of laughter. Macaulay. 

ROARER:  A horse subject to roaring. See Roaring, 2.  2. (Zoöl.)  The barn owl. [Prov.Eng.] 

ROARING:  An affection of the windpipe of a horse, causing a loud, peculiar noise in breathing under exertion; the making of the noise so caused. See Roar, v. i., 5.  ROARING FORTIES Roar"ing for"ties. (Naut.)  The middle latitudes of the southern hemisphere. So called from the boisterous and prevailing westerly winds, which are especially strong in the South Indian Ocean up to 50º S. 

ROARINGLY:  In a roaring manner. 

ROAST:  To dissipate by heat the volatile parts of, as ores.  6. To banter severely. [Colloq.] Atterbury. 

ROAST:  That which is roasted; a piece of meat which has been roasted, or is suitable for being roasted. A fat swan loved he best of any roost [roast]. Chaucer. To rule the roast, to be at the head of affairs. "The new-made duke that rules the roast." Shak. 

ROAST:  Roasted; as, roast beef. 

ROASTING:  a. & n., from Roast, v. Roasting ear, an ear of Indian corn at that stage of development when it is fit to be eaten roasted.  -- Roasting jack, a machine for turning a spit on which meat is roasted. 

ROB:  The inspissated juice of ripe fruit, obtained by evaporation of the juice over a fire till it acquires the consistence of a sirup. It is sometimes mixed with honey or sugar. [Written also rhob, and rohob.] 

ROB:  To take the property of (any one) from his person, or in his presence, feloniously, and against his will, by violence or by putting him in fear.  3. To deprive of, or withhold from, unjustly or injuriously; to defraud; as, to rob one of his rest, or of his good name; a tree robs the plants near it of sunlight. I never robbed the soldiers of their pay. Shak. 

ROB:  To take that which belongs to another, without right or permission, esp. by violence. I am accursed to rob in that thief's company. Shak.  ROBALO; ROBALITO Rob"a*lo, n. [Sp. róbalo.]  Any of several pikelike marine fishes of the West Indies and tropical America constituting the family Oxylabracidæ, esp. the largest species (Oxylabrax, syn. Centropomus, undecimalis), a valuable food fish called also snook, the smaller species being called Rob`a*li"to. 

ROBAND:  See Roperand. 

ROBBER:  One who robs; in law, one who feloniously takes goods or money from the person of another by violence or by putting him in fear. Some roving robber calling to his fellows. Milton.  Syn.  -- Thief; depredator; despoiler; plunderer; pillager; rifler; brigang; freebooter; pirate. See Thief. Robber crab. (Zoöl.) (a) A purse crab. (b) Any hermit crab.  -- Robber fly. (Zoöl.) Same as Hornet fly, under Hornet.  -- Robber gull (Zoöl.), a jager gull. 

ROBBERY:  The crime of robbing. See Rob, v. t., 2.  Note: Robbery, in a strict sense, differs from theft, as it is effected by force or intimidation, whereas theft is committed by stealth, or privately.  Syn.  -- Theft; depredation; spoliation; despoliation; despoilment; plunder; pillage; rapine; larceny; freebooting; piracy. 

ROBBIN:  A kind of package in which pepper and other dry commodities are sometimes exported from the East Indies. The robbin of rice in Malabar weighs about 84 pounds. Simmonds. 

ROBBIN:  See Ropeband. 

ROBE:  To invest with a robe or robes; to dress; to array; as, fields robed with green. The sage Chaldeans robed in white appeared. Pope. Such was his power over the expression of his countenance, that he could in an instant shake off the sternness of winter, and robe it in the brightest smiles of spring. Wirt.  ROBE-DE-CHAMBRE Robe`-de-cham"bre, n. Etym: [F., lit., a chamber gown.]  A dressing gown, or morning gown.  ROBERDSMAN; ROBERTSMAN Rob"erds*man, Rob"erts*man, n.; pl. -men. ( (Old Statutes of Eng.)  A bold, stout robber, or night thief; -- said to be so called from Robin Hood. 

ROBERT:  See Herb Robert, under Herb. 

ROBING:  The act of putting on a robe. Robing room, a room where official robes are put on, as by judges, etc.  ROBIN GOODFELLOW Rob"in Good"fel`low.  A celebrated fairy; Puck. See Puck. Shak. 

ROBINIA:  A genus of leguminous trees including the common locust of North America (Robinia Pseudocacia). 

ROBLE:  The California white oak (Quercus lobata). 

ROBORANT:  Strengthening.  -- n. (Med.)  A strengthening medicine; a tonic. 

ROBORATE:  To give strength or support to; to confirm. [Obs.] Fuller. 

ROBORATION:  The act of strengthening. [Obs.] Coles.  ROBOREAN; ROBOREOUS Ro*bo"re*an, Ro*bo"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. roboreus.]  Made of oak. [Obs.] 

ROBUSTIOUS:  Robust. [Obs. or Humorous] W. Irving. In Scotland they had handled the bishops in a more robustious manner. Milton. -- Ro*bus"tious*ly, adv.  -- Ro*bus"tious*ness, n. 

ROBUSTLY:  In a robust manner. 

ROBUSTNESS:  The quality or state of being robust. 

ROC:  A monstrous bird of Arabian mythology. [Written also rock, and rukh.] Brande & C. 

ROCAMBOLE:  A name of Allium Scorodoprasum and A. Ascalonium, two kinds of garlic, the latter of which is also called shallot. 

ROCCELLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid of the oxalic series found in archil (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), and other lichens, and extracted as a white crystalline substance C17H32O4. 

ROCCELLIN:  A red dyestuff, used as a substitute for cochineal, archil, etc. It consists of the sodium salt of a complex azo derivative of naphtol. 

ROCHE:  Rock. [Obs.] Chaucer.  ROCHE ALUM Roche" al`um. (Chem.)  A kind of alum occuring in small fragments; -- so called from Rocca, in Syria, whence alum is said to have been obtained; -- also called rock alum. 

ROCHELIME:  Lime in the lump after it is burned; quicklime. [Eng.] 

ROCHELLE:  A seaport town in France. Rochelle powders. Same as Seidlitz powders.  -- Rochelle salt (Chem.), the double tartrate of sodium and potassium, a white crystalline substance. It has a cooling, saline, slightly bitter taste and is employed as a mild purgative. It was discovered by Seignette, an apothecary of Rochelle, and is called also Seignete's salt.  ROCHE MOUTONNEE Roche" mou`ton`née". Etym: [F., sheep-shaped rock.] (Geol.)  See Sheepback. 

ROCHET:  A linen garment resembling the surplise, but with narrower sleeves, also without sleeves, worn by bishops, and by some other ecclesiastical dignitaries, in certain religious ceremonies. They see no difference between an idler with a hat and national cockade, and an idler in a cowl or in a rochet. Burke.  2. A frock or outer garment worn in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

ROCHET:  The red gurnard, or gurnet. See Gurnard.  ROCHING CASK Roch"ing cask`. Etym: [Probably from F. roche a rock.]  A tank in which alum is crystallized from a solution. 

ROCK:  See Roc. 

ROCK:  A distaff used in spinning; the staff or frame about which flax is arranged, and from which the thread is drawn in spinning. Chapman. Sad Clotho held the rocke, the whiles the thread By grisly Lachesis was spun with pain, That cruel Atropos eftsoon undid. Spenser. 

ROCK:  Any natural deposit forming a part of the earth's crust, whether consolidated or not, including sand, earth, clay, etc., when in natural beds.  3. That which resembles a rock in firmness; a defense; a support; a refuge. The Lord is my rock, and my fortress. 2 Sam. xxii. 2.  4. Fig.: Anything which causes a disaster or wreck resembling the wreck of a vessel upon a rock.  5. (Zoöl.)  The striped bass. See under Bass.  Note: This word is frequently used in the formation of self- explaining compounds; as, rock-bound, rock-built, rock-ribbed, rock- roofed, and the like. Rock alum. Etym: [Probably so called by confusion with F. roche a rock.] Same as Roche alum.  -- Rock barnacle (Zoöl.), a barnacle (Balanus balanoides) very abundant on rocks washed by tides.  -- Rock bass. (Zoöl.) (a) The stripped bass. See under Bass. (b) The goggle-eye. (c) The cabrilla. Other species are also locally called rock bass.  -- Rock builder (Zoöl.), any species of animal whose remains contribute to the formation of rocks, especially the corals and Foraminifera.  -- Rock butter (Min.), native alum mixed with clay and oxide of iron, usually in soft masses of a yellowish white color, occuring in cavities and fissures in argillaceous slate.  -- Rock candy, a form of candy consisting of crystals of pure sugar which are very hard, whence the name.  -- Rock cavy. (Zoöl.) See Moco.  -- Rock cod (Zoöl.) (a) A small, often reddish or brown, variety of the cod found about rocks andledges. (b) A California rockfish.  -- Rock cook. (Zoöl.) (a) A European wrasse (Centrolabrus exoletus). (b) A rockling.  -- Rock cork (Min.), a variety of asbestus the fibers of which are loosely interlaced. It resembles cork in its texture.  -- Rock crab (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large crabs of the genus Cancer, as the two species of the New England coast (C. irroratus and C. borealis). See Illust. under Cancer.  -- Rock cress (Bot.), a name of several plants of the cress kind found on rocks, as Arabis petræa, A. lyrata, etc.  -- Rock crystal (Min.), limpid quartz. See Quartz, and under Crystal.  -- Rock dove (Zoöl.), the rock pigeon; -- called also rock doo.  -- Rock drill, an implement for drilling holes in rock; esp., a machine impelled by steam or compressed air, for drilling holes for blasting, etc.  -- Rock duck (Zoöl.), the harlequin duck.  -- Rock eel. (Zoöl.) See Gunnel.  -- Rock goat (Zoöl.), a wild goat, or ibex.  -- Rock hopper (Zoöl.), a penguin of the genus Catarractes. See under Penguin.  -- Rock kangaroo. (Zoöl.) See Kangaroo, and Petrogale.  -- Rock lobster (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large spinose lobsters of the genera Panulirus and Palinurus. They have no large claws. Called also spiny lobster, and sea crayfish.  -- Rock meal (Min.), a light powdery variety of calcite occuring as an efflorescence.  -- Rock milk. (Min.) See Agaric mineral, under Agaric.  -- Rock moss, a kind of lichen; the cudbear. See Cudbear.  -- Rock oil. See Petroleum.  -- Rock parrakeet (Zoöl.), a small Australian parrakeet (Euphema petrophila), which nests in holes among the rocks of high cliffs. Its general color is yellowish olive green; a frontal band and the outer edge of the wing quills are deep blue, and the central tail feathers bluish green.  -- Rock pigeon (Zoöl.), the wild pigeon (Columba livia) Of Europe and Asia, from which the domestic pigeon was derived. See Illust. under Pigeon.  -- Rock pipit. (Zoöl.) See the Note under Pipit.  -- Rock plover. (Zoöl.) (a) The black-bellied, or whistling, plover. (b) The rock snipe.  -- Rock ptarmigan (Zoöl.), an arctic American ptarmigan (Lagopus rupestris), which in winter is white, with the tail and lores black. In summer the males are grayish brown, coarsely vermiculated with black, and have black patches on the back.  -- Rock rabbit (Zoöl.), the hyrax. See Cony, and Daman.  -- Rock ruby (Min.), a fine reddish variety of garnet.  -- Rock salt (Min.), cloride of sodium (common salt) occuring in rocklike masses in mines; mineral salt; salt dug from the earth. In the United States this name is sometimes given to salt in large crystals, formed by evaporation from sea water in large basins or cavities.  -- Rock seal (Zoöl.), the harbor seal. See Seal.  -- Rock shell (Zoöl.), any species of Murex, Purpura, and allied genera.  -- Rock snake (Zoöl.), any one of several large pythons; as, the royal rock snake (Python regia) of Africa, and the rock snake of India (P. molurus). The Australian rock snakes mostly belong to the allied genus Morelia.  -- Rock snipe (Zoöl.), the purple sandpiper (Tringa maritima); -- called also rock bird, rock plover, winter snipe.  -- Rock soap (Min.), a kind of clay having a smooth, greasy feel, and adhering to the tongue.  -- Rock sparrow. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of Old World sparrows of the genus Petronia, as P. stulla, of Europe. (b) A North American sparrow (Pucæa ruficeps).  -- Rock tar, petroleum.  -- Rock thrush (Zoöl.), any Old World thrush of the genus Monticola, or Petrocossyphus; as, the European rock thrush (M. saxatilis), and the blue rock thrush of India (M. cyaneus), in which the male is blue throughout.  -- Rock tripe (Bot.), a kind of lichen (Umbilicaria Dillenii) growing on rocks in the northen parts of America, and forming broad, flat, coriaceous, dark fuscous or blackish expansions. It has been used as food in cases of extremity.  -- Rock trout (Zoöl.), any one of several species of marine food fishes of the genus Hexagrammus, family Chiradæ, native of the North Pacific coasts; -- called also sea trout, boregat, bodieron, and starling.  -- Rock warbler (Zoöl.), a small Australian singing bird (Origma rubricata) which frequents rocky ravines and water courses; -- called also cataract bird.  -- Rock wren (Zoöl.), any one of several species of wrens of the genus Salpinctes, native of the arid plains of Lower California and Mexico. 

ROCKAWAY:  Formerly, a light, low, four-wheeled carriage, with standing top, open at the sides, but having waterproof curtains which could be let down when occasion required; now, a somewhat similar, but heavier, carriage, inclosed, except in front, and having a door at each side.  ROCKELAY; ROCKLAY Rock"e*lay, Rock"lay, n.  See Rokelay. [Scot.] 

ROCKER:  Same as Rock shaft. Rocker arm (Mach.), an arm borne by a rock shaft. To be off one's rocker, to be insane. 

ROCKERED:  Shaped like a rocker; curved; as, a rockered keel. 

ROCKERY:  A mound formed of fragments of rock, earth, etc., and set with plants. 

ROCKET:  To rise straight up; said of birds; usually in the present participle or as an adjective. [Eng.] An old cock pheasant came rocketing over me. H. R. Haggard. 

ROCKETER:  A bird, especially a pheasant, which, being flushed, rises straight in the air like a rocket. [Eng.] 

ROCKINESS:  The state or quality of being rocky. 

ROCKING:  Having a swaying, rolling, or back-and-forth movement; used for rocking. Rocking shaft. (Mach.) See Rock shaft.  ROCKING-CHAIR Rock"ing-chair`, n.  A chair mounted on rockers, in which one may rock.  ROCKING-HORSE Rock"ing-horse`, n.  The figure of a horse, mounted upon rockers, for children to ride.  ROCKING-STONE Rock"ing-stone`, n.  A stone, often of great size and weight, resting upon another stone, and so exactly poised that it can be rocked, or slightly moved, with but little force. 

ROCKLESS:  Being without rocks. Dryden. 

ROCKLING:  Any species of small marine fishes of the genera Onos and Rhinonemus (formerly Motella), allied to the cod. They have three or four barbels. 

ROCKROSE:  A name given to any species of the genus Helianthemum, low shrubs or herbs with yellow flowers, especially the European H. vulgare and the American frostweed, H. Canadense. Cretan rockrose, a related shrub (Cistus Creticus), one of the plants yielding the fragrant gum called ladanum.  ROCK SHAFT Rock" shaft`. Etym: [Cf. Rock, v. i.] (Mach.)  A shaft that oscillates on its journals, instead of revolving, -- usually carrying levers by means of which it receives and communicates reciprocating motion, as in the valve gear of some steam engines; -- called also rocker, rocking shaft, and way shaft.  ROCK STAFF Rock" staff`. Etym: [Cf. Rock, v. i.]  An oscillating bar in a machine, as the lever of the bellows of a forge. 

ROCKSUCKER:  A lamprey. 

ROCKWEED:  Any coarse seaweed growing on sea-washed rocks, especially Fucus. 

ROCKWOOD:  Ligniform asbestus; also, fossil wood. 

ROCKWORK:  Stonework in which the surface is left broken and rough.  2. (Gardening)  A rockery. 

ROCOA:  The orange-colored pulp covering the seeds of the tropical plant Bixa Orellana, from which annotto is prepared. See Annoto. 

ROCOCO:  A florid style of ornamentation which prevailed in Europe in the latter part of the eighteenth century. 

ROCOCO:  Of or pertaining to the style called rococo; like rococo; florid; fantastic. 

RODDY:  Full of rods or twigs. 

RODDY:  Ruddy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RODE:  Redness; complexion. [Obs.] "His rode was red." Chaucer. 

RODE:  imp. of Ride. 

RODE:  See Rood, the cross. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RODENT:  One of the Rodentia. 

RODENTIA:  An order of mammals having two (rarely four) large incisor teeth in each jaw, distant from the molar teeth. The rats, squirrels, rabbits, marmots, and beavers belong to this order.  Note: The incisor teeth are long, curved, and strongly enameled on the outside, so as to keep a cutting edge. They have a persistent pulp and grow continuously. 

RODEO:  A round-up. See Round-up. [Western U.S.] 

RODGE:  The gadwall. [Prov.Eng.] 

RODOMEL:  Juice of roses mixed with honey. Simmonds. 

RODOMONT:  A vain or blustering boaster; a braggart; a braggadocio. Sir T. Herbert. 

RODOMONT:  Bragging; vainly boasting. 

RODOMONTADE:  Vain boasting; empty bluster or vaunting; rant. I could show that the rodomontades of Almanzor are neither so irrational nor impossible. Dryden. 

RODOMONTADE:  To boast; to brag; to bluster; to rant. 

RODOMONTADIST:  One who boasts. 

RODOMONTADO:  Rodomontade. 

RODOMONTADOR:  A rodomontadist. 

RODSMAN:  One who carries and holds a leveling staff, or rod, in a surveying party. G. W. Cable. 

RODY:  Ruddy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ROE:  The ova or spawn of fishes and amphibians, especially when still inclosed in the ovarian membranes. Sometimes applied, loosely, to the sperm and the testes of the male.  2. A mottled appearance of light and shade in wood, especially in mahogany. 

ROEBUCK:  A small European and Asiatic deer (Capreolus capræa) having erect, cylindrical, branched antlers, forked at the summit. This, the smallest European deer, is very nimble and graceful. It always prefers a mountainous country, or high grounds. 

ROED:  Filled with roe. 

ROEDEER:  The roebuck.  ROE, RICHARD Roe, Richard. (Law)  A fictious name for a party, real or fictious, to an act or proceeding. Other names were formerly similarly used, as John-a- Nokes, John o', or of the, Nokes, or Noakes, John-a-Stiles, etc. 

ROESTONE:  Same as Oölite. 

ROGATION:  The demand, by the consuls or tribunes, of a law to be passed by the people; a proposed law or decree.  2. (Eccl.)  Litany; supplication. He perfecteth the rogations or litanies before in use. Hooker. Rogation days (Eccl.), the three days which immediately precede Ascension Day; -- so called as being days on which the people, walking in procession, sang litanies of special supplication.  -- Rogation flower (Bot.), a European species of milkwort (Polygala vulgaris); -- so called from its former use for garlands in Rogation week. Dr. Prior.  -- Rogation week, the second week before Whitsunday, in which the Rogation days occur. 

ROGATORY:  Seeking information; authorized to examine witnesses or ascertain facts; as, a rogatory commission. Woolsey. 

ROGER:  A black flag with white skull and crossbones, formerly used by pirates; -- called also Jolly Roger. 

ROGUE:  A vagrant; an idle, sturdy beggar; a vagabond; a tramp.  Note: The phrase rogues and vagabonds is applied to a large class of wandering, disorderly, or dissolute persons. They were formerly punished by being whipped and having the gristle of the right ear bored with a hot iron.  2. A deliberately dishonest person; a knave; a cheat. The rogue and fool by fits is fair and wise. Pope.  3. One who is pleasantly mischievous or frolicsome; hence, often used as a term of endearment. Ah, you sweet little rogue, you! Shak.  4. An elephant that has separated from a herd and roams about alone, in which state it is very savage.  5. (Hort.)  A worthless plant occuring among seedlings of some choice variety. Rogues' gallery, a collection of portraits of rogues or criminals, for the use of the police authorities.  -- Rogue's march, derisive music performed in driving away a person under popular indignation or official sentence, as when a soldier is drummed out of a regiment.  -- Rogue's yarn, yarn of a different twist and color from the rest, inserted into the cordage of the British navy, to identify it if stolen, or for the purpose of tracing the maker in case of defect. Different makers are required to use yarns of different colors. 

ROGUE:  To wander; to play the vagabond; to play knavish tricks. [Obs.] Spenser. 

ROGUE:  To destroy (plants that do not come up to a required standard). 

ROGUESHIP:  The quality or state of being a rogue. [Jocose] "Your rogueship." Dryden. 

ROGUY:  Roguish. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 

ROHOB:  An inspissated juice. See Rob. 

ROIAL:  Royal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ROILY:  Turbid; as, roily water. 

ROIN:  See Royne. [Obs.] 

ROIN:  A scab; a scurf, or scurfy spot. [Obs.] 

ROINISH:  See Roynish. [Obs.] 

ROINT:  See Aroint. 

ROIST:  See Roister. 

ROISTER:  To bluster; to swagger; to bully; to be bold, noisy, vaunting, or turbulent. I have a roisting challenge sent amongst The dull and factious nobles of the Greeks. Shak. 

ROISTER:  See Roisterer. 

ROISTERER:  A blustering, turbulent fellow. If two roisterers met, they cocked their hats in each other faces. Macaulay. 

ROISTERLY:  Blustering; violent. [R.] 

ROISTERLY:  In a roistering manner. [R.] 

ROKAMBOLE:  See Rocambole. 

ROKE:  Parched Indian corn, pounded up and mixed with sugar; -- called also yokeage. [Local, U.S.] 

ROKELAY:  A short cloak. [Written also rockelay, rocklay, etc.] [Scot.] 

ROKY:  Misty; foggy; cloudy. [Prov. Eng.] Ray. 

ROLE:  A part, or character, performed by an actor in a drama; hence, a part of function taken or assumed by any one; as, he has now taken the rôle of philanthropist. Title rôle, the part, or character, which gives the title to a play, as the part of Hamlet in the play of that name. 

ROLL:  To apply (one line or surface) to another without slipping; to bring all the parts of (one line or surface) into successive contact with another, in suck manner that at every instant the parts that have been in contact are equal.  10. To turn over in one's mind; to revolve. Full oft in heart he rolleth up and down The beauty of these florins new and bright. Chaucer. To roll one's self, to wallow.  -- To roll the eye, to direct its axis hither and thither in quick succession.  -- To roll one's r's, to utter the letter r with a trill. [Colloq.] 

ROLL:  The oscillating movement of a vessel from side to side, in sea way, as distinguished from the alternate rise and fall of bow and stern called pitching.  6. A heavy, reverberatory sound; as, the roll of cannon, or of thunder.  7. The uniform beating of a drum with strokes so rapid as scarcely to be distinguished by the ear.  8. Part; office; duty; rôle. [Obs.] L'Estrange. Long roll (Mil.), a prolonged roll of the drums, as the signal of an attack by the enemy, and for the troops to arrange themselves in line.  -- Master of the rolls. See under Master.  -- Roll call, the act, or the time, of calling over a list names, as among soldiers.  -- Rolls of court, of parliament (or of any public body), the parchments or rolls on which the acts and proceedings of that body are engrossed by the proper officer, and which constitute the records of such public body.  -- To call the roll, to call off or recite a list or roll of names of persons belonging to an organization, in order to ascertain who are present or to obtain responses from those present.  Syn.  -- List; schedule; catalogue; register; inventory. See List. 

ROLLABLE:  Capable of being rolled. 

ROLLER:  One of series of long, heavy waves which roll in upon a coast, sometimes in calm weather.  4. A long, belt-formed towel, to be suspended on a rolling cylinder; -- called also roller towel.  5. (Print.)  A cylinder coated with a composition made principally of glue and molassess, with which forms of type are inked previously to taking an impression from them. W. Savage.  6. A long cylinder on which something is rolled up; as, the roller of a man.  7. A small wheel, as of a caster, a roller skate, etc.  8. (Zoöl.)  ANy insect whose larva rolls up leaves; a leaf roller. see Tortrix.  9. Etym: [CF. F. rollier.] (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of Old World picarian birds of the family Coraciadæ. The name alludes to their habit of suddenly turning over or "tumbling" in flight.  Note: Many of the species are brilliantly colored. The common European species (Coracias garrula) has the head, neck, and under parts light blue varied with green, the scapulars chestnut brown, and the tail blue, green, and black. The broad-billed rollers of India and Africa belong to the genus Eurystomus, as the oriental roller (E. orientalis), and the Australian roller, or dollar bird (E. Pacificus). The latter is dark brown on the head and neck, sea green on the back, and bright blue on the throat, base of the tail, and parts of the wings. It has a silvery-white spot on the middle of each wing.  10. (Zoöl.)  Any species of small ground snakes of the family Tortricidæ. Ground roller (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Madagascar rollers belonging to Atelornis and allied genera. They are nocturnal birds, and feed on the ground.  -- Roller bolt, the bar in a carriage to which the traces are attached; a whiffletree. [Eng.] -- Roller gin, a cotton gin inn which rolls are used for separating the seeds from the fiber.  -- Roller mill. See under Mill.  -- Roller skate, a skate which has small wheels in the place of the metallic runner; -- designed for use in skating upon a smooth, hard surface, other than ice.  ROLLER BEARING Roll"er bear"ing. (Mach.)  A bearing containing friction rollers.  ROLLER COASTER Roller coaster.  An amusement railroad in which cars coast by gravity over a long winding track, with steep pitches and ascents. 

ROLLEY:  A small wagon used for the underground work of a mine. Tomlison. 

ROLLIC:  To move or play in a careless, swaggering manner, with a frolicsome air; to frolic; to sport; commonly in the form rollicking. [Colloq.] He described his friends as rollicking blades. T. Hook.  ROLLICHE; ROLLEJEE; ROLLICHIE Rol"li*che, n. [Also Rol"le*jee, Rol"li*chie.] [D. rolletje a little roll.]  A kind of sausage, made in a bag of tripe, sliced and fried, famous among the Dutch of New Amsterdam and still known, esp. in New Jersey. 

ROLLING:  A cylindrical piece of wood or other material, with which paste or dough may be rolled out and reduced to a proper thickness. 

ROLLWAY:  A place prepared for rolling logs into a stream.  ROLLY-POLY Roll"y-po`ly, n.  A kind of pudding made of paste spread with fruit, rolled into a cylindrical form, and boiled or steamed.  -- a.  Shaped like a rolly-poly; short and stout. [Written also roly- poly.]  ROLLY-POOLY Roll"y-pool`y, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]  A game in which a ball, rolling into a certain place, wins. [Written also rouly-pouly.]  ROLY-POLY Ro"ly-po`ly, n. & a.  Rolly-poly. 

ROMAGE:  See Rummage. [Obs.] Shak. 

ROMAIC:  Of or relating to modern Greece, and especially to its language.  -- n.  The modern Greek language, now usually called by the Greeks Hellenic or Neo-Hellenic.  Note: The Greeks at the time of the capture of Constantinople were proud of being "Romai^oi, or Romans . . . Hence the term Romaic was the name given to the popular language. . . . The Greek language is now spoken of as the Hellenic language. Encyc. Brit. 

ROMAJIKAI:  An association, including both Japanese and Europeans, having for its object the changing of the Japanese method of writing by substituting Roman letters for Japanese characters. 

ROMAN:  The calendar of the ancient Romans, from which our modern calendars are derived. It is said to have consisted originally of ten months, Martius, Aprilis, Maius, Junius, Quintilis, Sextilis, September, October, November, and December, having a total of 304 days. Numa added two months, Januarius at the beginning of the year, and Februarius at the end, making in all 355 days. He also ordered an intercalary month, Mercedinus, to be inserted every second year. Later the order of the months was changed so that January should come before February. Through abuse of power by the pontiffs to whose care it was committed, this calendar fell into confusion. It was replaced by the Julian calendar. In designating the days of the month, the Romans reckoned backward from three fixed points, the calends, the nones, and the ides. The calends were always the first day of the month. The ides fell on the 15th in March, May, July (Quintilis), and October, and on the 13th in other months. The nones came on the eighth day (the ninth, counting the ides) before the ides. Thus, Jan. 13 was called the ides of January, Jan. 12, the day before the ides, and Jan. 11, the third day before the ides (since the ides count as one), while Jan. 14 was the 19th day before the calends of February. 

ROMANCE:  A short lyric tale set to music; a song or short instrumental piece in ballad style; a romanza.  Syn.  -- Fable; novel; fiction; tale. 

ROMANCE:  Of or pertaining to the language or dialects known as Romance. 

ROMANCE:  To write or tell romances; to indulge in extravagant stories. A very brave officer, but apt to romance. Walpole. 

ROMANCER:  One who romances. 

ROMANCIST:  A romancer. [R.] 

ROMANCY:  Romantic. [R.] 

ROMANESQUE:  Somewhat resembling the Roman; -- applied sometimes to the debased style of the later Roman empire, but esp. to the more developed architecture prevailing from the 8th century to the 12th.  2. Of or pertaining to romance or fable; fanciful. Romanesque style (Arch.), that which grew up from the attempts of barbarous people to copy Roman architecture and apply it to their own purposes. This term is loosely applied to all the styles of Western Europe, from the fall of the Western Roman Empire to the appearance of Gothic architecture. 

ROMANESQUE:  Romanesque style. 

ROMANISH:  Pertaining to Romanism. 

ROMANISM:  The tenets of the Church of Rome; the Roman Catholic religion. 

ROMANIST:  One who adheres to Romanism. 

ROMANIZER:  One who Romanizes. 

ROMANSCH:  The language of the Grisons in Switzerland, a corruption of the Latin. [Written also Romansch, and Rumonsch.] 

ROMANT:  A romaunt. [Obs.] 

ROMANTICAL:  Romantic. 

ROMANTICALY:  In a romantic manner. 

ROMANTICISM:  A fondness for romantic characteristics or peculiarities; specifically, in modern literature, an aiming at romantic effects; -- applied to the productions of a school of writers who sought to revive certain medi He [Lessing] may be said to have begun the revolt from pseudo- classicism in poetry, and to have been thus unconsciously the founder of romanticism. Lowell. 

ROMANTICIST:  One who advocates romanticism in modern literature. J. R. Seeley. 

ROMANTICLY:  Romantically. [R.] Strype. 

ROMANTICNESS:  The state or quality of being romantic; widness; fancifulness. Richardson. 

ROMANZA:  See Romance,5. 

ROMAUNT:  A romantic story in verse; as, the "Romaunt of the Rose." O, hearken, loving hearts and bold, Unto my wild romaunt. Mrs. Browning. 

ROMBLE:  Rumble. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ROMBOWLINE:  Old, condemned canvas, rope, etc., unfit for use except in chafing gear. [Written also rumbowline.]  ROMEINE; ROMEITE Ro"me*ine, Ro"me*ite, n. Etym: [F. roméine. So calledafter the French mineralogist Romé L'Isle.] (Min.)  A mineral of a hyacinth or honey-yellow color, occuring in square octahedrons. It is an antimonate of calcium. 

ROMEKIN:  A drinking cup. [Written also romkin.] [Obs.] Halliwell.  ROME PENNY; ROME SCOT Rome" pen`ny, or; Rome" scot`.  See Peter pence, under Peter. 

ROMEWARD:  Toward Rome, or toward the Roman Catholic Church. 

ROMEWARD:  Tending or directed toward Rome, or toward the Roman Catholic Church. To analyze the crisis in its Anglican rather than in its Romeward aspect. Gladstone. 

ROMIC:  A method of notation for all spoken sounds, proposed by Mr. Sweet; -- so called because it is based on the common Roman-letter alphabet. It is like the palæotype of Mr. Ellis in the general plan, but simpler. 

ROMISH:  Belonging or relating to Rome, or to the Roman Catholic Church; -- frequently used in a disparaging sense; as, the Romish church; the Romish religion, ritual, or ceremonies. 

ROMIST:  A Roman Catholic. [R.] South. 

ROMP:  To play rudely and boisterously; to leap and frisk about in play. 

ROMPING:  Inclined to romp; indulging in romps. A little romping girl from boarding school. W. Irving. 

ROMPINGLY:  In a romping manner. 

ROMPISH:  Given to rude play; inclined to romp. --- Romp"ish, adv.  -- Romp"ish*ness, n. 

ROMPU:  Broken, as an ordinary; cut off, or broken at the top, as a chevron, a bend, or the like. 

RONCADOR:  Any one of several species of California sciænoid food fishes, especially Roncador Stearnsi, which is an excellent market fish, and the red roncador (Corvina, or Johnius, saturna). 

RONCHIL:  An American marine food fish (Bathymaster signatus) of the North Pacific coast, allied to the tilefish. [Written also ronquil.] 

RONCO:  See Croaker, n., 2. (a). [Texas] 

RONDACHE:  A circular shield carried by foot soldiers. 

RONDE:  A kind of script in which the heavy strokes are nearly upright, giving the characters when taken together a round look. 

RONDEAU:  See Rondo,1. 

RONDEL:  A small round tower erected at the foot of a bastion. [Obs.]  2. Etym: [F.] (a) Same as Rondeau. (b) Specifically, a particular form of rondeau containing fourteen lines in two rhymes, the refrain being a repetition of the first and second lines as the seventh and eighth, and again as the thirteenth and fourteenth. E. W. Gosse. 

RONDELETIA:  A tropical genus of rubiaceous shrubs which often have brilliant flowers. 

RONDO:  A composition, vocal or instrumental, commonly of a lively, cheerful character, in which the first strain recurs after each of the other strains. "The Rondo-form was the earliest and most frequent definite mold for musical construction." Grove.  2. (Poetry)  See Rondeau, 1. 

RONG:  imp. & p. p. of Ring. Chaucer. 

RONG:  Rung (of a ladder). [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RONGEUR:  An instrument for removing small rough portions of bone. 

RONIN:  In Japan, under the feudal system, a samurai who had renounced his clan or who had been discharged or ostracized and had become a wanderer without a lord; an outcast; an outlaw.  RONION; RONYON Ron"ion, Ron"yon, n. Etym: [F. rogne scab, mange.]  A mangy or scabby creature. "Aroint thee, with!" the rump-fed ronyon cries. Shak.  RONNE; RONNEN Ron"ne,  obs. imp. pl., and Ron"nen (,  obs. p. p. of Renne, to run. Chaucer. 

RONT:  A runt. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RONTGEN:  Of or pertaining to the German physicist Wilhelm Konrad Röntgen, or the rays discovered by him; as, Röntgen apparatus. 

RONTGENIZE:  To render (air or other gas) conducting by the passage of Röntgen rays.  RONTGEN RAY Röntgen ray. (Physics)  Any of the rays produced when cathode rays strike upon surface of a solid (as the wall of the vacuum tube). Röntgen rays are noted for their penetration of many opaque substances, as wood and flesh, their action on photographic plates, and their fluorescent effects. They were called X rays by their discoverer, W. K. Röntgen. They also ionize gases, but cannot be reflected, or polarized, or deflected by a magnetic field. They are regarded as nonperiodic, transverse pulses in the ether. They are used in examining opaque objects, as for locating fractures or bullets in the human body. 

ROODEBOK:  The pallah. 

ROODY:  Rank in growth. [Prov.Eng.] 

ROOF:  The cover of any building, including the roofing (see Roofing) and all the materials and construction necessary to carry and maintain the same upon the walls or other uprights. In the case of a building with vaulted ceilings protected by an outer roof, some writers call the vault the roof, and the outer protection the roof mask. It is better, however, to consider the vault as the ceiling only, in cases where it has farther covering.  2. That which resembles, or corresponds to, the covering or the ceiling of a house; as, the roof of a cavern; the roof of the mouth. The flowery roof Showered roses, which the morn repaired. Milton.  3. (Mining.)  The surface or bed of rock immediately overlying a bed of coal or a flat vein. Bell roof, French roof, etc. (Arch.) See under Bell, French, etc.  -- Flat roof. (Arch.) (a) A roof actually horizontal and level, as in some Oriental buildings. (b) A roof nearly horizontal, constructed of such material as allows the water to run off freely from a very slight inclination.  -- Roof plate. (Arch.) See Plate, n., 10. 

ROOFER:  One who puts on roofs. 

ROOFING:  The wedging, as of a horse or car, against the top of an underground passage. Raymond. 

ROOFLET:  A small roof, covering, or shelter. 

ROOFTREE:  The beam in the angle of a roof; hence, the roof itself. Now for me the woods may wither, now for me the rooftree fall. Tennyson. 

ROOFY:  Having roofs. [R.] Dryden. 

ROOK:  Mist; fog. See Roke. [Obs.] 

ROOK:  To squat; to ruck. [Obs.] Shak. 

ROOK:  One of the four pieces placed on the corner squares of the board; a castle. 

ROOK:  A European bird (Corvus frugilegus) resembling the crow, but smaller. It is black, with purple and violet reflections. The base of the beak and the region around it are covered with a rough, scabrous skin, which in old birds is whitish. It is gregarious in its habits. The name is also applied to related Asiatic species. The rook . . . should be treated as the farmer's friend. Pennant.  2. A trickish, rapacious fellow; a cheat; a sharper. Wycherley. 

ROOK:  To cheat; to defraud by cheating. "A band of rooking officials." Milton. 

ROOKY:  Misty; gloomy. [Obs.] Light thickens, and the crow Makes wing to the rooky wood. Shak.  Note: Some make this Shakespearean word mean "abounding in rooks." 

ROOM:  To occupy a room or rooms; to lodge; as, they arranged to room together. 

ROOM:  Spacious; roomy. [Obs.] No roomer harbour in the place. Chaucer. 

ROOMAGE:  Space; place; room. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

ROOMER:  A lodger. [Colloq.] 

ROOMER:  At a greater distance; farther off. [Obs.] Sir J. Harrington. 

ROOMFUL:  Abounding with room or rooms; roomy. "A roomful house." [R.] Donne. 

ROOMFUL:  As much or many as a room will hold; as, a roomful of men. Swift. 

ROOMILY:  Spaciously. 

ROOMINESS:  The quality or state of being roomy; spaciousness; as, the roominess of a hall. 

ROOMLESS:  Being without room or rooms. Udall. 

ROOMMATE:  One of twe or more occupying the same room or rooms; one who shares the occupancy of a room or rooms; a chum. 

ROOMSOME:  Roomy. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

ROOMTH:  Room; space. [Obs.] Drayton. 

ROOMTHY:  Roomy; spacious. [Obs.] Fuller. 

ROOMY:  Having ample room; spacious; large; as, a roomy mansion; a roomy deck. Dryden. 

ROON:  Vermilion red; red. [R.] Her face was like the lily roon. J. R. Drake. 

ROOP:  See Roup. [Prov. Eng.]  ROORBACK; ROORBACH Roor"back, Roor"bach, n.  A defamatory forgery or falsehood published for purposes of political intrigue. [U.S.]  Note: The word originated in the election canvass of 1844, when such a forgery was published, to the detriment of James K. Polk, a candidate for President, purporting to be an extract from the "Travels of Baron Roorbach."  ROOSA OIL Roo"sa oil`.  The East Indian name for grass oil. See under Grass. 

ROOST:  Roast. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ROOST:  See Roust, v. t. 

ROOSTCOCK:  The male of the domestic fowl; a cock. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

ROOSTER:  The male of the domestic fowl; a cock. [U.S.] Nor, when they [the Skinners and Cow Boys] wrung the neck of a rooster, did they trouble their heads whether he crowed for Congress or King George. W. Irving. 

ROOT:  To turn up or to dig out with the snout; as, the swine roots the earth. 

ROOT:  That factor of a quantity which when multiplied into itself will produce that quantity; thus, 3 is a root of 9, because 3 multiplied into itself produces 9; 3 is the cube root of 27. (e) (Mus.) The fundamental tone of any chord; the tone from whose harmonics, or overtones, a chord is composed. Busby. (f) The lowest place, position, or part. "Deep to the roots of hell." Milton. "The roots of the mountains." Southey.  4. (Astrol.)  The time which to reckon in making calculations. When a root is of a birth yknowe [known]. Chaucer. Aërial roots. (Bot.) (a) Small roots emitted from the stem of a plant in the open air, which, attaching themselves to the bark of trees, etc., serve to support the plant. (b) Large roots growing from the stem, etc., which descend and establish themselves in the soil. See Illust. of Mangrove.  -- Multiple primary root (Bot.), a name given to the numerous roots emitted from the radicle in many plants, as the squash.  -- Primary root (Bot.), the central, first-formed, main root, from which the rootlets are given off.  -- Root and branch, every part; wholly; completely; as, to destroy an error root and branch.  -- Root-and-branch men, radical reformers; -- a designation applied to the English Independents (1641). See Citation under Radical, n., 2.  -- Root barnacle (Zoöl.), one of the Rhizocephala.  -- Root hair (Bot.), one of the slender, hairlike fibers found on the surface of fresh roots. They are prolongations of the superficial cells of the root into minute tubes. Gray.  -- Root leaf (Bot.), a radical leaf. See Radical, a., 3 (b).  -- Root louse (Zoöl.), any plant louse, or aphid, which lives on the roots of plants, as the Phylloxera of the grapevine. See Phylloxera.  -- Root of an equation (Alg.), that value which, substituted for the unknown quantity in an equation, satisfies the equation.  -- Root of a nail (Anat.), the part of a nail which is covered by the skin.  -- Root of a tooth (Anat.), the part of a tooth contained in the socket and consisting of one or more fangs.  -- Secondary roots (Bot.), roots emitted from any part of the plant above the radicle.  -- To strike root, To take root, to send forth roots; to become fixed in the earth, etc., by a root; hence, in general, to become planted, fixed, or established; to increase and spread; as, an opinion takes root. "The bended twigs take root." Milton. 

ROOTCAP:  A mass of parenchym 

ROOTED:  Having taken root; firmly implanted; fixed in the heart. "A rooted sorrow." Shak.  -- Root"*ed*ly, adv.  -- Root"ed*ness, n. 

ROOTER:  One who, or that which, roots; one that tears up by the roots. 

ROOTERY:  A pile of roots, set with plants, mosses, etc., and used as an ornamental object in gardening. 

ROOTLESS:  Destitute of roots. 

ROOTLET:  A radicle; a little root. 

ROOTSTOCK:  A perennial underground stem, producing leafly s 

ROOTY:  Full of roots; as, rooty ground. 

ROPALIC:  See Rhopalic. 

ROPE:  The small intestines; as, the ropes of birds. Rope ladder, a ladder made of ropes.  -- Rope mat., a mat made of cordage, or strands of old rope.  -- Rope of sand, something of no cohession or fiber; a feeble union or tie; something not to be relied upon.  -- Rope pump, a pump in which a rapidly running endless rope raises water by the momentum communicated to the water by its adhesion to the rope.  -- Rope transmission (Mach.), a method of transmitting power, as between distant places, by means of endless ropes running over grooved pulleys.  -- Rope's end, a piece of rope; especially, one used as a lash in inflicting punishment.  -- To give one rope, to give one liberty or license; to let one go at will uncheked. 

ROPE:  To be formed into rope; to draw out or extend into a filament or thread, as by means of any glutinous or adhesive quality. Let us not hang like ropingicicles Upon our houses' thatch. Shak. 

ROPEBAND:  A small piece of spun yarn or marline, used to fasten the head of the sail to the spar. [Written also roband, and robbin.] 

ROPEDANCER:  One who dances, walks, or performs acrobatic feats, on a rope extended through the air at some height.  -- Rope"dan`cing, n. 

ROPERY:  To punish with a rope's end. 

ROPEWALK:  A long, covered walk, or a low, level building, where ropes are manufactured. 

ROPEWALKER:  A ropedancer.  ROPE-YARN Rope"-yarn`, n.  the yarn or thread of any stuff of which the strands of a rope are made. 

ROPILY:  In a ropy manner; in a viscous or glutinous manner. 

ROPINESS:  Quality of being ropy; viscosity. 

ROPISH:  Somewhat ropy. 

ROPY:  capable of being drawn into a thread, as a glutinous substance; stringy; viscous; tenacious; glutinous; as ropy sirup; ropy lees. 

ROQUE:  A form of croquet modified for greater accuracy of play. The court has a wood border often faced with rubber, used as a cushion in bank shots. The balls are 3¼ in. in diameter, the cage (center arches or wickets) 3 3/8 in. wide, the other arches 3½ in. wide.  ROQUEFORT CHEESE; ROQUEFORT Roque`fort" cheese, or Roque`fort", n.  A highly flavored blue-molded cheese, made at Roquefort, department of Aveyron, France. It is made from milk of ewes, sometimes with cow's milk added, and is cured in caves. Improperly, a cheese made in imitation of it. 

ROQUELAURE:  A cloak reaching about to, or just below, the knees, worn in the 18th century. [Written also roquelo.] 

ROQUET:  To hit, as another's ball, with one's own ball. 

ROQUET:  To hit another's ball with one's own. 

RORAL:  Of or pertaining to dew; consisting of dew; dewy. [R.] M. Green. 

RORATION:  A falling of dew. [R.] 

RORIC:  Of or pertaining to dew; resembling dew; dewy. Roric figures (Physics), figures which appear upon a polished surface, as glass, when objects which have been near to, or in contact with, the surface are removed and the surface breathed upon; -- called also Moser's images. 

RORID:  Dewy; bedewed. [R.] T. Granger. 

RORIFEROUS:  generating or producing dew. [R.] 

RORIFLUENT:  Flowing with dew. [R.] 

RORQUAL:  A very large North Atlantic whalebone whale (Physalus antiquorum, or Balænoptera physalus). It has a dorsal fin, and strong longitudinal folds on the throat and belly. Called also razorback.  Note: It is one of the largest of the whales, somethimes becoming nearly one hundred feet long, but it is more slender than the right whales, and is noted for its swiftness. The name is sometimes applied to other related species of finback whales. 

RORULENT:  Having the surface appearing as if dusty, or covered with fine dew. 

RORY:  Dewy. [R.] And shook his wings with rory May-dew wet. Fairfax. 

ROSACIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (called also lithic acid) found in certain red precipitates of urine. See Uric. [Obs.] 

ROSALGAR:  realgar. [Obs.] chaucer. 

ROSALIA:  A form of melody in which a phrase or passage is successively repeated, each time a step or half step higher; a melodic sequence. 

ROSANILINE:  A complex nitrogenous base, C20H21N3O, obtained by oxidizing a mixture of aniline and toluidine, as a colorless crystalline substance which forms red salts. These salts are essential components of many of the socalled aniline dyes, as fuchsine, aniline red, etc. By extension, any one of the series of substances derived from, or related to, rosaniline proper. 

ROSARIAN:  A cultivator of roses. 

ROSARY:  A series of prayers (see Note below) arranged to be recited in order, on beads; also, a string of beads by which the prayers are counted. His idolized book, and the whole rosary of his prayers. Milton.  Note: A rosary consists of fifteen decades. Each decade contains ten Ave Marias marked by small beads, preceded by a Paternoster, marked by a larger bead, and concluded by a Gloria Patri. Five decades make a chaplet, a third part of the rosary. Bp. Fitzpatrick.  3. A chapelet; a garland; a series or collection, as of beautiful thoughts or of literary selections. Every day propound to yourself a rosary or chaplet of good works to present to God at night. Jer. Taylor.  4. A coin bearing the figure of a rose, fraudulently circulated in Ireland in the 13th century for a penny. Rosary shell (Zoöl.), any marine gastropod shell of the genus Monodonta. They are top-shaped, bright-colored and pearly. 

ROSCID:  Containing, or consisting of, dew; dewy. [R.] Bacon. 

ROSCOELITE:  A green micaceous mineral occurring in minute scales. It is essentially a silicate of aluminia and potash containing vanadium. 

ROSE:  imp. of Rise. 

ROSE:  A rose window. See Rose window, below.  4. A perforated nozzle, as of a pipe, spout, etc., for delivering water in fine jets; a rosehead; also, a strainer at the foot of a pump.  5. (Med.)  The erysipelas. Dunglison.  6. The card of the mariner's compass; also, a circular card with radiating lines, used in other instruments.  7. The color of a rose; rose-red; pink.  8. A diamond. See Rose diamond, below. Cabbage rose, China rose, etc. See under Cabbage, China, etc.  -- Corn rose (Bot.) See Corn poppy, under Corn.  -- Infantile rose (Med.), a variety of roseola.  -- Jamaica rose. (Bot.) See under Jamaica.  -- Rose acacia (Bot.), a low American leguminous shrub (Robinia hispida) with handsome clusters of rose-colored blossoms.  -- Rose aniline. (Chem.) Same as Rosaniline.  -- Rose apple (Bot.), the fruit of the tropical myrtaceous tree Eugenia Jambos. It is an edible berry an inch or more in diameter, and is said to have a very strong roselike perfume.  -- Rose beetle. (Zoöl.) (a) A small yellowish or buff longlegged beetle (Macrodactylus subspinosus), which eats the leaves of various plants, and is often very injurious to rosebushes, apple trees, grapevines, etc. Called also rose bug, and rose chafer. (b) The European chafer.  -- Rose bug. (Zoöl.) same as Rose beetle, Rose chafer.  -- Rose burner, a kind of gas-burner producing a rose-shaped flame.  -- Rose camphor (Chem.), a solid odorless substance which separates from rose oil.  -- Rose campion. (Bot.) See under Campion.  -- Rose catarrh (Med.), rose cold.  -- Rose chafer. (Zoöl.) (a) A common European beetle (Cetonia aurata) which is often very injurious to rosebushes; -- called also rose beetle, and rose fly. (b) The rose beetle (a).  -- Rose cold (Med.), a variety of hay fever, sometimes attributed to the inhalation of the effluvia of roses. See Hay fever, under Hay.  -- Rose color, the color of a rose; pink; hence, a beautiful hue or appearance; fancied beauty, attractiveness, or promise.  -- Rose de Pompadour, Rose du Barry, names succesively given to a delicate rose color used on Sèvres porcelain.  -- Rose diamond, a diamond, one side of which is flat, and the other cut into twenty-four triangular facets in two ranges which form a convex face pointed at the top. Cf. Brilliant, n.  -- Rose ear. See under Ear.  -- Rose elder (Bot.), the Guelder-rose.  -- Rose engine, a machine, or an appendage to a turning lathe, by which a surface or wood, metal, etc., is engraved with a variety of curved lines. Craig.  -- Rose family (Bot.) the Roseceæ. See Rosaceous.  -- Rose fever (Med.), rose cold.  -- Rose fly (Zoöl.), a rose betle, or rose chafer.  -- Rose gall (Zoöl.), any gall found on rosebushes. See Bedeguar.  -- Rose knot, a ribbon, or other pliade band plaited so as to resemble a rose; a rosette.  -- Rose lake, Rose madder, a rich tint prepared from lac and madder precipitated on an earthy basis. Fairholt.  -- Rose mallow. (Bot.) (a) A name of several malvaceous plants of the genus Hibiscus, with large rose-colored flowers. (b) the hollyhock.  -- Rose nail, a nail with a convex, faceted head.  -- Rose noble, an ancient English gold coin, stamped with the figure of a rose, first struck in the reign of Edward III., and current at 6s. 8d. Sir W. Scott.  -- Rose of China. (Bot.) See China rose (b), under China.  -- Rose of Jericho (Bot.), a Syrian cruciferous plant (Anastatica Hierochuntica) which rolls up when dry, and expands again when moistened; -- called also resurrection plant.  -- Rose of Sharon (Bot.), an ornamental malvaceous shrub (Hibiscus Syriacus). In the Bible the name is used for some flower not yet identified, perhaps a Narcissus, or possibly the great lotus flower.  -- Rose oil (Chem.), the yellow essential oil extracted from various species of rose blossoms, and forming the chief part of attar of roses.  -- Rose pink, a pigment of a rose color, made by dyeing chalk or whiting with a decoction of Brazil wood and alum; also, the color of the pigment.  -- Rose quartz (Min.), a variety of quartz which is rose-red.  -- Rose rash. (Med.) Same as Roseola.  -- Rose slug (Zoöl.), the small green larva of a black sawfly (Selandria rosæ). These larvæ feed in groups on the parenchyma of the leaves of rosebushes, and are often abundant and very destructive.  -- Rose window (Arch.), a circular window filled with ornamental tracery. Called also Catherine wheel, and marigold window. Cf. wheel window, under Wheel.  -- Summer rose (Med.), a variety of roseola. See Roseola.  -- Under the rose Etym: [a translation of L. sub rosa], in secret; privately; in a manner that forbids disclosure; -- the rose being among the ancients the symbol of secrecy, and hung up at entertainments as a token that nothing there said was to be divulged.  -- Wars of the Roses (Eng. Hist.), feuds between the Houses of York and Lancaster, the white rose being the badge of the House of York, and the red rose of the House of Lancaster. 

ROSEAL:  resembling a rose in smell or color. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

ROSEBUD:  The flower of a rose before it opens, or when but partially open. 

ROSEBUSH:  The bush or shrub which bears roses.  ROSE-COLORED Rose"-col`ored, a.  1. Having the color of a pink rose; rose-pink; of a delicate pink color.  2. Uncommonly beautiful; hence, extravagantly fine or pleasing; alluring; as, rose-colored anticipations.  ROSE-CUT Rose"-cut`, a.  Cut flat on the reverse, and with a convex face formed of triangular facets in rows; -- said of diamonds and other precious stones. See Rose diamond, under Rose. Cf. Brilliant, n. 

ROSEDROP:  A ruddy eruption upon the nose caused by drinking ardent spirits; a grog blossom. 

ROSEFINCH:  Any one of numerous species of Asiatic finches of the genera Carpodacus, and Propasser, and allied genera, in which the male is more or less colored with rose red. 

ROSEFISH:  A large marine scorpænoid food fish (Sebastes marinus) found on the northern coasts of Europe and America. called also red perch, hemdurgan, Norway haddok, and also, erroneously, snapper, bream, and bergylt.  Note: When full grown it is usually bright rose-red or orange-red; the young are usually mottled with red and ducky brown. 

ROSEINE:  See Magenta. 

ROSELITE:  A hydrous arsenite of cobalt, occuring in small red crystals, allied to erythrite. 

ROSELLA:  A beautiful Australian parrakeet (Platycercus eximius) often kept as a cage bird. The head and back of the neck are scarlet, the throat is white, the back dark green varied with lighter green, and the breast yellow. 

ROSELLE:  a malvaceous plant (Hibiscus Sabdariffa) cultivated in the east and West Indies for its fleshy calyxes, which are used for making tarts and jelly and an acid drink. 

ROSEMALOES:  The liquid storax of the East Indian Liquidambar orientalis. 

ROSEMARY:  A labiate shrub (Rosmarinus officinalis) with narrow grayish leaves, growing native in the southern part of France, Spain, and Italy, also in Asia Minor and in China. It has a fragrant smell, and a warm, pungent, bitterish taste. It is used in cookery, perfumery, etc., and is an emblem of fidelity or constancy. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Shak. Marsh rosemary. (a) A little shrub (Andromeda polifolia) growing in cold swamps and having leaves like those of the rosemary. (b) See under Marsh.  -- Rosemary pine, the loblolly pine. See under Loblolly. 

ROSEN:  Consisting of roses; rosy. [Obs.]  ROSENMULLER'S ORGAN; ROSENMUELLER'S ORGAN Ro"sen*mül`ler's or"gan.  [So named from its first describer, J. C. Rosenmüller, a German anatomist.] (Anat.) The parovarium.  ROSEO- Ro"se*o-. (Chem.)  A prefix (also used adjectively) signifying rose-red; specifically used to designate certain rose-red compounds (called roseo-cobaltic compounds) of cobalt with ammonia. Cf. Luteo-. 

ROSEOLA:  A rose-colored efflorescence upon the skin, occurring in circumscribed patches of little or no elevation and often alternately fading and reviving; also, an acute specific disease which is characterized by an eruption of this character; -- called also rose rash.  -- Ro*se"o*lous, a.  ROSE-PINK Rose"-pink`, a.  1. Having a pink color like that of the rose, or like the pigment called rose pink. See Rose pink, under Rose.  2. Disposed to clothe everything with roseate hues; hence, sentimental. "Rose-pink piety." C. Kingsley. 

ROSER:  A rosier; a rosebush. [Obs.]  ROSE-RED Rose"-red`, a.  Red as a rose; specifically (Zoöl.), of a pure purplish red color. Chaucer.  ROSE-RIAL Rose"-ri`al, n. Etym: [See Rose, and Royal.]  A name of several English gold coins struck in different reigns and having having different values; a rose noble. 

ROSEROOT:  A fleshy-leaved herb (Rhodiola rosea); rosewort; -- so called because the roots have the odor of roses. 

ROSERY:  A place where roses are cultivated; a nursery of roses. See Rosary, 1. 

ROSET:  A red color used by painters. Peacham.  ROSETTA STONE Ro*set"ta stone`.  A stone found at Rosetta, in Egypt, bearing a trilingual inscription, by aid of which, with other inscriptions, a key was obtained to the hieroglyphics of ancient Egypt. Brande & C.  ROSETTA WOOD Ro*set"ta wood`.  An east Indian wood of a reddish orange color, handsomely veined with darker marks. It is occasionally used for cabinetwork. Ure. 

ROSETTE:  An ornament in the form of a rose or roundel, -much used in decoration.  3. A red color. See Roset.  4. A rose burner. See under Rose.  5. (Zoöl.) (a) Any structure having a flowerlike form; especially, the group of five broad ambulacra on the upper side of the spatangoid and clypeastroid sea urchins. See Illust. of Spicule, and Sand dollar, under Sand. (b) A flowerlike color marking; as, the rosettes on the leopard.  ROSE WATER Rose" wa`ter.  Water tinctured with roses by distillation.  ROSE-WATER Rose"-wa`ter, a.  Having the odor of rose water; hence, affectedly nice or delicate; sentimental. "Rose-water philantropy." Carlyle. 

ROSEWOOD:  A valuable cabinet wood of a dark red color, streaked and variegated with black, obtained from several tropical leguminous trees of the genera Dalbergia and Machærium. The finest kind is from Brazil, and is said to be from the Dalbergia nigra. African rosewood, the wood of the leguminous tree Pterocarpus erinaceus.  -- Jamaica rosewood, the wood of two West Indian trees (Amyris balsamifera, and Linocieria ligustrina).  -- New South Wales rosewood, the wood of Trichilia glandulosa, a tree related to the margosa. 

ROSEWORM:  The larva of any one of several species of lepidopterous insects which feed upon the leaves, buds, or blossoms of the rose, especially Cacæcia rosaceana, which rolls up the leaves for a nest, and devours both the leaves and buds. 

ROSICRUCIAN:  One who, in the 17th century and the early part of the 18th, claimed to belong to a secret society of philosophers deeply versed in the secrets of nature, -- the alleged society having existed, it was stated, several hundred years.  Note: The Rosicrucians also called brothers of the Rosy Cross, Rosy- cross Knights, Rosy-cross philosophers, etc. Among other pretensions, they claimed to be able to transmute metals, to prolong life, to know what is passing in distant places, and to discover the most hidden things by the application of the Cabala and science of numbers. 

ROSICRUCIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Rosicrucians, or their arts. 

ROSIED:  Decorated with roses, or with the color of roses. 

ROSIER:  A rosebush; roses, collectively. [Obs.] Crowned with a garland of sweet rosier. Spenser. 

ROSILY:  In a rosy manner. M. Arnold. 

ROSIN:  The hard, amber-colored resin left after distilling off the volatile oil of turpentine; colophony. Rosin oil, an oil obtained from the resin of the pine tree, -- used by painters and for lubricating machinery, etc. 

ROSIN:  To rub with rosin, as musicians rub the bow of a violin. Or with the rosined bow torment the string. Gay. 

ROSINESS:  The quality of being rosy. 

ROSINY:  like rosin, or having its qualities. 

ROSLAND:  heathy land; land full of heather; moorish or watery land. [prov. Eng.] 

ROSMARINE:  A fabulous sea animal which was reported to climb by means of its teeth to the tops of rocks to feed upon the dew. And greedly rosmarines with visages deforme. Spenser. 

ROSOLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex red dyestuff (called rosolic acid) which is analogous to rosaniline and aurin. It is produced by oxidizing a mixture of phenol and cresol, as a dark red amorphous mass, C20H16O3, which forms weak salts with bases, and stable ones with acids. Called also methyl aurin, and, formerly, corallin. 

ROSS:  The rough, scaly matter on the surface of the bark of trees. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 

ROSS:  To divest of the ross, or rough, scaly surface; as, to ross bark. [Local, U.S.] 

ROSSEL:  Light land; rosland. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Mortimer.  ROSSEL CURRENT Ros"sel cur`rent. [From Rossel Island, in the Louisiade Archipelago.] (Oceanography)  A portion of the southern equatorial current flowing westward from the Fiji Islands to New Guinea.  ROSSEL CURRENT Ros"sel cur`rent. [From Rossel Island, in the Louisiade Archipelago.] (Oceanography)  A portion of the southern equatorial current flowing westward from the Fiji Islands to New Guinea. [Webster 1913 Suppl.] 

ROSSELLY:  Loose; light. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

ROST:  See Roust. [Scot.] Jemieson. 

ROSTEL:  same as Rostellum. 

ROSTELLAR:  Pertaining to a rostellum. 

ROSTELLATE:  Having a rostellum, or small beak; terminating in a beak. 

ROSTELLIFORM:  Having the form of a rostellum, or small beak. 

ROSTELLUM:  A small beaklike process or extension of some part; a small rostrum; as, the rostellum of the stigma of violets, or of the operculum of many mosses; the rostellum on the head of a tapeworm. 

ROSTER:  A register or roll showing the order in which officers, enlisted men, companies, or regiments are called on to serve. 

ROSTRA:  See Rostrum, 2. 

ROSTRAL:  Of or pertaining to the beak or snout of an animal, or the beak of a ship; resembling a rostrum, esp., the rostra at Rome, or their decorations. [Monuments] adorned with rostral crowns and naval ornaments. Addison.  ROSTRATE; ROSTRATED Ros"trate, Ros"tra*ted, a. Etym: [L. rostratus, fr. rostrum a beak. See Rostrum.]  1. Having a process resembling the beak of a bird; beaked; rostellate.  2. Furnished or adorned with beaks; as, rostrated galleys. 

ROSTRIFERA:  A division of pectinibranchiate gastropods, having the head prolonged into a snout which is not retractile. 

ROSTRIFORM:  Having the form of a beak. 

ROSTRULUM:  A little rostrum, or beak, as of an insect. 

ROSTRUM:  The Beaks; the stage or platform in the forum where orations, pleadings, funeral harangues, etc., were delivered; -- so called because after the Latin war, it was adorned with the beaks of captured vessels; later, applied also to other platforms erected in Rome for the use of public orators.  3. Hence, a stage for public speaking; the pulpit or platform occupied by an orator or public speaker. Myself will mount the rostrum in his favor. Addison.  4. (Zoöl.) (a) Any beaklike prolongation, esp. of the head of an animal, as the beak of birds. (b) The beak, or sucking mouth parts, of Hemiptera. (c) The snout of a gastropod mollusk. See Illust. of Littorina. (d) The anterior, often spinelike, prolongation of the carapace of a crustacean, as in the lobster and the prawn.  5. (Bot.)  Same as Rostellum.  6. (Old Chem.)  The pipe to convey the distilling liquor into its receiver in the common alembic. Quincy.  7. (Surg.)  A pair of forceps of various kinds, having a beaklike form. [Obs.] Coxe. 

ROSULATE:  Arranged in little roselike clusters; -- said of leaves and bracts. 

ROSY:  Resembling a rose in color, form, or qualities; blooming; red; blushing; also, adorned with roses. A smile that glowed Celestial rosy-red, love's proper hue. Milton. While blooming youth and gay delight Sit thy rosy cheeks confessed. Prior.  Note: Rosy is sometimes used in the formation of selfrosy-bosomed, rosy-colored, rosy-crowned, rosy-fingered, rosy-tinted. Rosy cross. See the Note under Rosicrucian, n. 

ROT:  A disease or decay in fruits, leaves, or wood, supposed to be caused by minute fungi. See Bitter rot, Black rot, etc., below.  3. Etym: [Cf. G. rotz glanders.]  A fatal distemper which attacks sheep and sometimes other animals. It is due to the presence of a parasitic worm in the liver or gall bladder. See 1st Fluke, 2. His cattle must of rot and murrain die. Milton. Bitter rot (Bot.), a disease of apples, caused by the fungus Glæosporium fructigenum. F. L. Scribner.  -- Black rot (Bot.), a disease of grapevines, attacking the leaves and fruit, caused by the fungus Læstadia Bidwellii. F. L. Scribner.  -- Dry rot (Bot.) See under Dry.  -- Grinder's rot (Med.) See under Grinder.  -- Potato rot. (Bot.) See under Potato.  -- White rot (Bot.), a disease of grapes, first appearing in whitish pustules on the fruit, caused by the fungus Coniothyrium diplodiella. F. L. Scribner. 

ROTA:  A short-lived political club established in 1659 by J.Harrington to inculcate the democratic doctrine of election of the principal officers of the state by ballot, and the annual retirement of a portion of Parliament. 

ROTA:  A species of zither, played like a guitar, used in the Middle Ages in church music; -- written also rotta. 

ROTACISM:  See Rhotacism. 

ROTAL:  Relating to wheels or to rotary motion; rotary. [R.] 

ROTALITE:  Any fossil foraminifer of the genus Rotalia, abundant in the chalk formation. See Illust. under Rhizopod. 

ROTARY:  Turning, as a wheel on its axis; pertaining to, or resembling, the motion of a wheel on its axis; rotatory; as, rotary motion. Rotary engine, steam engine in which the continuous rotation of the shaft is produced by the direct action of the steam upon rotating devices which serve as pistons, instead of being derived from a reciprocating motion, as in the ordinary engine; a steam turbine; -- called also rotatory engine.  -- Rotary pump, a pump in which the fluid is impelled by rotating devices which take the place of reciprocating buckets or pistons.  -- Rotary shears, shears, as for cloth, metal, etc., in which revolving sharp-edged or sharp-cornered wheels do the cutting.  -- Rotary valve, a valve acting by continuous or partial rotation, as in the four-way cock. 

ROTASCOPE:  Same as Gyroscope, 1. 

ROTATE:  Having the parts spreading out like a wheel; wheel-shaped; as, a rotate spicule or scale; a rotate corolla, i.e., a monopetalous corolla with a flattish border, and no tube or a very short one. 

ROTATED:  Turned round, as a wheel; also, wheel-shaped; rotate. 

ROTATION:  Pertaining to, or resulting from, rotation; of the nature of, or characterized by, rotation; as, rotational velocity. 

ROTATIVE:  turning, as a wheel; rotary; rotational. This high rotative velocity of the sun must cause an equatorial rise of the solar atmosphere. Siemens. Rotative engine, a steam engine in which the reciprocating motion of the piston is transformed into a continuous rotary motion, as by means of a connecting rod, a working beam and crank, or an oscillating cylinder. 

ROTATOR:  that which gives a rotary or rolling motion, as a muscle which partially rotates or turns some part on its axis.  2. (Metal.)  A revolving reverberatory furnace. 

ROTATORIA:  Same as Rotifera. 

ROTATORY:  Producing rotation of the plane of polarization; as, the rotatory power of bodies on light. See the Note under polarization. Nichol. 

ROTATORY:  A rotifer. [R.] Kirby. 

ROTCHE:  A very small arctic sea bird (Mergulus alle, or Alle alle) common on both coasts of the Atlantic in winter; -- called also little auk, dovekie, rotch, rotchie, and sea dove. 

ROTCHET:  The European red gurnard (Trigla pini). 

ROTE:  A root. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ROTE:  A kind of guitar, the notes of which were produced by a small wheel or wheel-like arrangement; an instrument similar to the hurdy- gurdy. Well could he sing and play on a rote. Chaucer. extracting mistuned dirges from their harps, crowds, and rotes. Sir W. Scott. 

ROTE:  The noise produced by the surf of the sea dashing upon the shore. See Rut. 

ROTE:  A frequent repetition of forms of speech without attention to the meaning; mere repetition; as, to learn rules by rote. Swift. till he the first verse could [i. e., knew] all by rote. Chaucer. Thy love did read by rote, and could not spell. Shak. 

ROTE:  To learn or repeat by rote. [Obs.] Shak. 

ROTE:  To go out by rotation or succession; to rotate. [Obs.] Z. Grey. 

ROTELLA:  Any one of numerous species of small, polished, brightcolored gastropods of the genus Rotella, native of tropical seas. 

ROTHER:  Bovine.  -- n.  A bovine beast. [Obs.] Shak. Rother beasts, cattle of the bovine genus; black cattle. [Obs.] Golding.  -- Rother soil, the dung of rother beasts. 

ROTHER:  A rudder. Rother nail, a nail with a very full head, used for fastening the rudder irons of ships; -- so called by shipwrights. 

ROTIFER:  One of the Rotifera. See Illust. in Appendix. 

ROTIFERA:  An order of minute worms which usually have one or two groups of vibrating cilia on the head, which, when in motion, often give an appearance of rapidly revolving wheels. The species are very numerous in fresh waters, and are very diversified in form and habits. 

ROTIFORM:  Same as Rotate. 

ROTOGRAPH:  A photograph printed by a process in which a strip or roll of sensitized paper is automatically fed over the negative so that a series of prints are made, and are then developed, fixed, cut apart, and washed at a very rapid rate. 

ROTOR:  The rotating part of a generator or motor. 

ROTTA:  See Rota. 

ROTTEN:  Having rotted; putrid; decayed; as, a rotten apple; rotten meat. Hence: (a) Offensive to the smell; fetid; disgusting. You common cry or curs! whose breath I hate As reek of the rotten fens. Shak.  (b) Not firm or trusty; unsound; defective; treacherous; unsafe; as, a rotten plank, bone, stone. "The deepness of the rotten way." Knolles. Rotten borough. See under Borough.  -- Rotten stone (Min.), a soft stone, called also Tripoli (from the country from which it was formerly brought), used in all sorts of finer grinding and polishing in the arts, and for cleaning metallic substances. The name is also given to other friable siliceous stones applied to like uses.  Syn.  -- Putrefied; decayed; carious; defective; unsound; corrupt; deceitful; treacherous.  -- Rot"ten*ly, adv.  -- Rot"ten*ness, n. 

ROTULA:  The patella, or kneepan. 

ROTULAR:  Of or pertaining to the rotula, or kneepan. 

ROTUND:  orbicular, or nearly so. Gray. 

ROTUND:  A rotunds. [Obs.] Burke. 

ROTUNDA:  A round building; especially, one that is round both on the outside and inside, like the Pantheon at Rome. Less properly, but very commonly, used for a large round room; as, the rotunda of the Capitol at Washington. 

ROTUNDATE:  Rounded; especially, rounded at the end or ends, or at the corners. 

ROTUNDIFOLIOUS:  Having round leaves. 

ROTUNDNESS:  Roundness; rotundity. 

ROTUNDO:  See Rotunda. 

ROTURER:  A roturier. [Obs.] Howell. 

ROTURIER:  A person who is not of noble birth; specif., a freeman who during the prevalence of feudalism held allodial land. 

ROTY:  To make rotten. [Obs.] Well bet is rotten apple out of hoard, Than that it roty all the remenant. Chaucer. 

ROUBLE:  A coin. See Ruble. 

ROUCHE:  See Ruche. 

ROUE:  One devoted to a life of sensual pleasure; a debauchee; a rake. 

ROUET:  A small wheel formerly fixed to the pan of firelocks for discharging them. Crabb. 

ROUGE:  red. [R.] Rouge et noir ( Etym: [F., red and black], a game at cards in which persons play against the owner of the bank; -- so called because the table around which the players sit has certain compartments colored red and black, upon which the stakes are deposited. Hoyle. 

ROUGE:  A red amorphous powder consisting of ferric oxide. It is used in polishing glass, metal, or gems, and as a cosmetic, etc. Called also crocus, jeweler's rouge, etc.  2. A cosmetic used for giving a red color to the cheeks or lips. The best is prepared from the dried flowers of the safflower, but it is often made from carmine. Ure. 

ROUGE:  To paint the face or cheeks with rouge. 

ROUGE:  To tint with rouge; as, to rouge the face or the cheeks. 

ROUGECROIX:  One of the four pursuivants of the English college of arms.  ROUGE DRAGON Rouge" drag`on, n. Etym: [F., literally, red dragon.] (Her.)  One of the four pursuivants of the English college of arms. 

ROUGH:  In a rough manner; rudely; roughly. Sleeping rough on the trenches, and dying stubbornly in their boats. Sir W. Scott. 

ROUGHCASTER:  One who roughcasts. 

ROUGHDRAW:  To draw or delineate rapidly and by way of a first sketch. 

ROUGHDRY:  in laundry work, to dry without smoothing or ironing. 

ROUGHEN:  To make rough. 

ROUGHEN:  To grow or become rough.  ROUGH-FOOTED Rough"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.)  Feather-footed; as, a rough-footed dove. [R.] Sherwood.  ROUGH-GRAINED Rough"-grained, a.  Having a rough grain or fiber; hence, figuratively, having coarse traits of character; not polished; brisque. 

ROUGHHEAD:  The redfin. 

ROUGHHEWER:  One who roughhews. 

ROUGHHEWN:  The first coat of plaster laid on brick; also, the process of applying it. 

ROUGHINGS:  Rowen. [Prov. Eng.] 

ROUGHISH:  Somewhat rough. 

ROUGHLEG:  Any one of several species of large hawks of the genus Archibuteo, having the legs feathered to the toes. Called also rough- legged hawk, and rough-legged buzzard.  Note: The best known species is Archibuteo lagopus of Northern Europe, with its darker American variety (Sancti-johannis). The latter is often nearly or quite black. The ferruginous roughleg (Archibuteo ferrugineus) inhabits Western North America.  ROUGH-LEGGED Rough"-legged`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the legs covered with feathers; -- said of a bird. rough-legged hawk. (Zoöl.) See Roughleg. 

ROUGHLY:  In a rough manner; unevenly; harshly; rudely; severely; austerely. 

ROUGHNESS:  The quality or state of being rough. 

ROUGHRIDER:  One who breaks horses; especially (Mil.), a noncommissioned officer in the British cavalry, whose duty is to assist the riding master. 

ROUGHSCUFF:  A rough, coarse fellow; collectively, the lowest class of the people; the rabble; the riffraff. [Colloq. U.S.] 

ROUGHSETTER:  A mason who builds rough stonework. 

ROUGHSHOD:  Shod with shoes armed with points or calks; as, a roughshod horse. To ride roughshod, to pursue a course regardless of the pain or distress it may cause others. 

ROUGHSTRINGS:  Pieces of undressed timber put under the steps of a wooden stair for their support. 

ROUGHT:  imp. of Reach. 

ROUGHT:  imp. of Reck, to care. Chaucer. 

ROUGHTAIL:  Any species of small ground snakes of the family Uropeltidæ; -- so called from their rough tails. 

ROUGHWORK:  To work over coarsely, without regard to nicety, smoothness, or finish. Moxon. 

ROUGHWROUGHT:  Wrought in a rough, unfinished way; worked over coarsely. 

ROUK:  See 5th Ruck, and Roke. [Obs.] 

ROULADE:  A smoothly running passage of short notes (as semiquavers, or sixteenths) uniformly grouped, sung upon one long syllable, as in Handel's oratorios. 

ROULEAU:  A little roll; a roll of coins put up in paper, or something resembling such a roll. 

ROULETTE:  the curve traced by any point in the plane of a given curve when the latter rolls, without sliding, over another fixed curve. See Cycloid, and Epycycloid.  ROULY-POULY Rou"ly-pou`ly, n.  See Rolly-pooly. 

ROUMANIAN:  Of or pertaining to Roumania. 

ROUMANIAN:  An inhabitant of Roumania; also, the language of Roumania, one of the Romance or Romanic languages descended from Latin, but containing many words from other languages, as Slavic, Turkish, and Greek.  ROUN; ROWN Roun, Rown, v. i. & t. Etym: [AS. r, fr. r a rune, secret, mystery; akin to G. raunen to whisper. See Rune.]  To whisper. [obs.] Gower. Another rouned to his fellow low. Chaucer. 

ROUNCE:  The handle by which the bed of a hand press, holding the form of type, etc., is run in under the platen and out again; -- sometimes applied to the whole apparatus by which the form is moved under the platen. 

ROUNCEVAL:  Large; strong; -- from the gigantic bones shown at Roncesvalles, and alleged to be those of old heroes. [Obs.] 

ROUNCEVAL:  A giant; anything large; a kind of pea called also marrowfat. [Obs.] 

ROUNCY:  A common hackney horse; a nag. [Obs.] he rode upon a rouncy as he could. Chaucer. 

ROUND:  To whisper. [obs.] Shak. Holland. The Bishop of Glasgow rounding in his ear, "Ye are not a wise man," . . . he rounded likewise to the bishop, and said, "Wherefore brought ye me here" Calderwood. 

ROUND:  Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, making the opening more or less round in shape; rounded; labialized; labial. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 11.  8. Outspoken; plain and direct; unreserved; unqualified; not mincing; as, a round answer; a round oath. "The round assertion." M. Arnold. Sir Toby, I must be round with you. Shak.  9. Full and smoothly expanded; not defective or abrupt; finished; polished; -- said of style, or of authors with reference to their style. [Obs.] In his satires Horace is quick, round, and pleasant. Peacham.  10. Complete and consistent; fair; just; -- applied to conduct. Round dealing is the honor of man's nature. Bacon. At a round rate, rapidly. Dryden.  -- In round numbers, approximately in even units, tens, hundreds, etc.; as, a bin holding 99 or 101 bushels may be said to hold in round numbers 100 bushels.  -- Round bodies (Geom.), the sphere right cone, and right cylinder.  -- Round clam (Zoöl.), the quahog.  -- Round dance one which is danced by couples with a whirling or revolving motion, as the waltz, polka, etc.  -- Round game, a game, as of cards, in which each plays on his own account.  -- Round hand, a style of penmanship in which the letters are formed in nearly an upright position, and each separately distinct; -- distinguished from running hand.  -- Round robin. Etym: [Perhaps F. round round + ruban ribbon.] (a) A written petition, memorial, remonstrance, protest, etc., the signatures to which are made in a circle so as not to indicate who signed first. "No round robins signed by the whole main deck of the Academy or the Porch." De Quincey. (b) (Zoöl.) The cigar fish.  -- Round shot, a solid spherical projectile for ordnance.  -- Round Table, the table about which sat King Arthur and his knights. See Knights of the Round Table, under Knight.  -- Round tower, one of certain lofty circular stone towers, tapering from the base upward, and usually having a conical cap or roof, which crowns the summit, -- found chiefly in Ireland. They are of great antiquity, and vary in heigh from thirty-five to one hundred and thiry feet.  -- Round trot, one in which the horse throws out his feet roundly; a full, brisk, quick trot. Addison.  -- Round turn (Naut.), one turn of a rope round a timber, a belaying pin, etc.  -- To bring up with a round turn, to stop abruptly. [Colloq.]  Syn.  -- Circular; spherical; globular; globase; orbicular; orbed; cylindrical; full; plump; rotund. 

ROUND:  A short vocal piece, resembling a catch in which three or four voices follow each other round in a species of canon in the unison.  12. The time during which prize fighters or boxers are in actual contest without an intermission, as prescribed by their rules; a bout.  13. A brewer's vessel in which the fermentation is concluded, the yeast escaping through the bunghole.  14. A vessel filled, as for drinking. [R.]  15. An assembly; a group; a circle; as, a round of politicians. Addison.  16. (Naut.)  See Roundtop.  17. Same as Round of beef, below. Gentlemen of the round. (a) Gentlemen soldiers of low rank who made the rounds. See 10 (a), above. (b) Disbanded soldiers who lived by begging. [Obs.] Worm-eaten gentlemen of the round, such as have vowed to sit on the skirts of the city, let your provost and his half dozen of halberdiers do what they can. B. Jonson. -- Round of beef, the part of the thigh below the aitchbone, or between the rump and the leg. See Illust. of beef.  -- Round steak, a beefsteak cut from the round.  -- Sculpture in the round, sculpture giving the full form, as of man; statuary, distinguished from relief. 

ROUND:  On every side of, so as to encompass or encircle; around; about; as, the people atood round him; to go round the city; to wind a cable round a windlass. The serpent Error twines round human hearts. Cowper. Round about, an emphatic form for round or about. "Moses . . . set them [The elders] round about the tabernacle." Num. xi. 24.  -- To come round, to gain the consent of, or circumvent, (a person) by flattery or deception. [Colloq.] 

ROUNDABOUTNESS:  The quality of being roundabout; circuitousness.  ROUND-ARM Round"-arm`, a. (Cricket)  Applied to the method delivering the ball in bowling, by swinging the arm horizontally. R. A. Proctor.  ROUND-BACKED Round"-backed`, a.  Having a round back or shoulders; round-shouldered. 

ROUNDED:  Modified by contraction of the lip opening; labialized; labial. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 11. 

ROUNDEL:  A rondelay. "Sung all the roundel lustily." Chaucer. Come, now a roundel and a fairy song. Shak.  2. Anything having a round form; a round figure; a circle. The Spaniards, casting themselves into roundels, . . . made a flying march to Calais. Bacon. Specifically: (a) A small circular shield, sometimes not more than a foot in diameter, used by soldiers in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. (b) (Her.) A circular spot; a sharge in the form of a small circle. (c) (Fort.) A bastion of a circular form. 

ROUNDELAY:  See Rondeau, and Rondel.  2. (Mus.) (a) A tune in which a simple strain is often repeated; a simple rural strain which is short and lively. Spenser. Tennyson. (b) A dance in a circle.  3. Anything having a round form; a roundel. 

ROUNDER:  An English game somewhat resembling baseball; also, another English game resembling the game of fives, but played with a football. Now we play rounders, and then we played prisoner's base. Bagehot. 

ROUNDHEAD:  A nickname for a Puritan. See Roundheads, the, in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction. Toone. 

ROUNDHEADED:  Having a round head or top. 

ROUNDING:  Round or nearly round; becoming round; roundish. 

ROUNDING:  Small rope, or strands of rope, or spun yarn, wound round a rope to keep it from chafing; -- called also service.  2. (Phonetics)  Modifying a speech sound by contraction of the lip opening; labializing; labialization. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 11. 

ROUNDISH:  Somewhat round; as, a roundish seed; a roundish figure.  -- Round"ish*ness, n. 

ROUNDLET:  A little circle. J. Gregory. 

ROUNDRIDGE:  To form into round ridges by plowing. B. Edwards.  ROUND-SHOULDERED Round"-shoul`dered, a.  Having the shoulders stooping or projecting; round-backed. 

ROUNDSMAN:  A patrolman; also, a policeman who acts as an inspector over the rounds of the patrolmen. 

ROUNDTOP:  A top; a platform at a masthead; -- so called because formerly round in shape.  ROUND-UP Round"-up`, n.  The act of collecting or gathering together scattered cattle by riding around them and driving them in. [Western U.S.] 

ROUNDURE:  Roundness; a round or circle. [Obs.] Shak. 

ROUNDWORM:  A nematoid worm. 

ROUNDY:  Round. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

ROUP:  To cry or shout; hence, to sell by auction. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

ROUSANT:  Rising; -- applied to a bird in the attitude of rising; also, sometmes, to a bird in profile with wings addorsed. 

ROUSE:  To pull or haul strongly and all together, as upon a rope, without the assistance of mechanical appliances. 

ROUSER:  A stirrer in a copper for boiling wort. 

ROUSINGLY:  In a rousing manner. 

ROUSSETTE:  A fruit bat, especially the large species (Pieropus vulgaris) inhabiting the islands of the Indian ocean. It measures about a yard across the expanded wings.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any small shark of the genus Scyllium; -- called also dogfish. See Dogfish. 

ROUST:  To rouse; to disturb; as, to roust one out. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 

ROUST:  A strong tide or current, especially in a narrow channel. [Written also rost, and roost.] Jamieson. 

ROUSTABOUT:  A laborer, especially a deck hand, on a river steamboat, who moves the cargo, loads and unloads wood, and the like; in an opprobrious sense, a shiftless vagrant who lives by chance jobs. [Western U.S.] 

ROUT:  To roar; to bellow; to snort; to snore loudly. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. 

ROUT:  A bellowing; a shouting; noise; clamor; uproar; disturbance; tumult. Shak. This new book the whole world makes such a rout about. Sterne. "My child, it is not well," I said, "Among the graves to shout; To laugh and play among the dead, And make this noisy rout." Trench. 

ROUT:  To scoop out with a gouge or other tool; to furrow. To rout out (a) To turn up to view, as if by rooting; to discover; to find. (b) To turn out by force or compulsion; as, to rout people out of bed. [Colloq.] 

ROUT:  To search or root in the ground, as a swine. Edwards. 

ROUT:  A disturbance of the peace by persons assembled together with intent to do a thing which, if executed, would make them rioters, and actually making a motion toward the executing thereof. Wharton.  5. A fashionable assembly, or large evening party. "At routs and dances." Landor. To put to rout, to defeat and throw into confusion; to overthrow and put to flight. 

ROUT:  To break the ranks of, as troops, and put them to flight in disorder; to put to rout. That party . . . that charged the Scots, so totally routed and defeated their whole army, that they fied. Clarendon.  Syn.  -- To defeat; discomfit; overpower; overthrow. 

ROUT:  To assemble in a crowd, whether orderly or disorderly; to collect in company. [obs.] Bacon. In all that land no Christian[s] durste route. Chaucer.  ROUT CAKE Rout" cake`.  A kind of rich sweet cake made for routs, or evening parties.  Twenty-four little rout cakes that were lying neglected in a plate. Thackeray. 

ROUTE:  The course or way which is traveled or passed, or is to be passed; a passing; a course; a road or path; a march. Wide through the furzy field their route they take. Gay. 

ROUTHE:  Ruth; sorrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ROUTINARY:  Involving, or pertaining to, routine; ordinary; customary. [R.] Emerson. 

ROUTINISM:  the practice of doing things with undiscriminating, mechanical regularity. 

ROUTINIST:  One who habituated to a routine. 

ROUTISH:  Uproarious; riotous. [Obs.] 

ROUTOUSLY:  With that violation of law called a rout. See 5th Rout, 4. 

ROUX:  A thickening, made of flour, for soups and gravies. 

ROVE:  To shoot at rovers; hence, to shoot at an angle of elevation, not at point-blank (rovers usually being beyond the point-blank range). Fair Venusson that with thy cruel dart At that good knoght cunningly didst rove. Spenser.  Syn.  -- To wander; roam; range; ramble stroll. 

ROVE:  The act of wandering; a ramble. In thy nocturnal rove one moment halt. Young. Rove beetle (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of beetles of the family Staphylinidæ, having short elytra beneath which the wings are folded transversely. They are rapid runners, and seldom fly. 

ROVER:  A ball which has passed through all the hoops and would go out if it hit the stake but is continued in play; also, the player of such a ball.  5. (Archery) (a) Casual marks at uncertain distances. Encyc. Brit. (b) A sort of arrow. [Obs.] All sorts, flights, rovers, and butt shafts. B. Jonson. At rovers, at casual marks; hence, at random; as, shooting at rovers. See def. 5 (a) above. Addison. Bound down on every side with many bands because it shall not run at rovers. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

ROVING:  The act of one who roves or wanders. 

ROVINGLY:  In a wandering manner. 

ROVINGNESS:  The state of roving. 

ROW:  Rough; stern; angry. [Obs.] "Lock he never so row." Chaucer. 

ROW:  A noisy, turbulent quarrel or disturbance; a brawl. [Colloq.] Byron. 

ROW:  A series of persons or things arranged in a continued line; a line; a rank; a file; as, a row of trees; a row of houses or columns. And there were windows in three rows. 1 Kings vii. 4. The bright seraphim in burning row. Milton. Row culture (Agric.), the practice of cultivating crops in drills.  -- Row of points (Geom.), the points on a line, infinite in number, as the points in which a pencil of rays is intersected by a line. 

ROW:  The act of rowing; excursion in a rowboat. 

ROWABLE:  That may be rowed, or rowed upon. "That long barren fen, once rowable." B. Jonson. 

ROWAN:  Rowan tree. Rowan barry, a barry of the rowan tree.  ROWAN TREE Row"an tree`. Etym: [Cf. Sw. rönn, Dan. rönne, Icel. reynir, and L. ornus.] (Bot.)  A european tree (Pyrus aucuparia) related to the apple, but with pinnate leaves and flat corymbs of small white flowers followed by little bright red berries. Called also roan tree, and mountain ash. The name is also applied to two American trees of similar habit (Pyrus Americana, and P. sambucifolia). 

ROWBOAT:  A boat designed to be propelled by oars instead of sails. 

ROWDY:  One who engages in rows, or noisy quarrels; a ruffianly fellow. M. Arnold. 

ROWDYDOW:  Hubbub; uproar. [Vulgar] 

ROWDYDOWDY:  Uproarious. [Vulgar] 

ROWDYISH:  Resembling a rowdy in temper or conduct; characteristic of a rowdy. 

ROWDYISM:  the conduct of a rowdy. 

ROWED:  Formed into a row, or rows; having a row, or rows; as, a twelve-rowed ear of corn. 

ROWEL:  A roll of hair, silk, etc., passed through the flesh of horses, answering to a seton in human surgery. 

ROWEL:  To insert a rowel, or roll of hair or silk, into (as the flesh of a horse). Mortimer.  ROWEL BONE Row"el bone`.  See rewel bone. [Obs.] 

ROWER:  One who rows with an oar. 

ROWETT:  See Rowen. 

ROWLOCK:  A contrivance or arrangement serving as a fulcrum for an oar in rowing. It consists sometimes of a notch in the gunwale of a boat, sometimes of a pair of pins between which the oar rests on the edge of the gunwale, sometimes of a single pin passing through the oar, or of a metal fork or stirrup pivoted in the gunwale and suporting the oar. 

ROWN:  see Roun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

ROWPORT:  An opening in the side of small vessels of war, near the surface of the water, to facilitate rowing in calm weather. 

ROXBURGH:  A style of bookbinding in which the back is plain leather, the sides paper or cloth, the top gilt-edged, but the front and bottom left uncut. 

ROY:  A king. [obs.] 

ROY:  Royal. [Obs.] Chapman. 

ROYAL:  A small sail immediately above the topgallant sail. Totten.  3. (Zoöl.)  One of the upper or distal branches of an antler, as the third and fourth tynes of the antlers of a stag.  4. (Gun.)  A small mortar.  5. (Mil.)  One of the soldiers of the first regiment of foot of the British army, formerly called the Royals, and supposed to be the oldest regular corps in Europe; -- now called the Royal Scots.  6. An old English coin. See Rial. 

ROYALET:  A petty or powerless king. [R.] there were at this time two other royalets, as only kings by his leave. Fuller. 

ROYALISM:  the principles or conduct of royalists. 

ROYALIST:  An adherent of a king (as of Charles I. in England, or of the Bourbons in france); one attached to monarchical government. Where Ca'ndish fought, the Royalists prevailed. Waller. 

ROYALIZATION:  The act of making loyal to a king. [R.] Saintsbury. 

ROYALIZE:  to make royal. Shak. 

ROYALLY:  In a royal or kingly manner; like a king; as becomes a king. His body shall be royally interred. Dryden.  ROYAL SPADE Royal spade. (Auction Bridge)  A spade when spades are trumps under the condition that every trick over six taken by the successful bidder has a score value of 9; -- usually in pl. 

ROYNE:  To bite; to gnaw. [Written also roin.] [Obs.] Spenser. 

ROYNISH:  Mangy; scabby; hence, mean; paltry; troublesome. [Written also roinish.] [Obs.] "The roynish clown." Shak.  ROYSTER; ROYSTERER Roys"ter, Roys"ter*er, n.  same as Roister, Roisterer.  ROYSTON CROW Roys"ton crow`. Etym: [So called from Royston, a town in England.] (Zoöl.)  See Hooded crow, under Hooded. 

ROYTELET:  A little king. [Archaic] Heylin. Bancroft. 

ROYTISH:  Wild; irregular. [Obs.] 

RUB:  The sound of a drum when continuously beaten; hence, a clamorous, repeated sound; a clatter. The rubadub of the abolition presses. D. Webster. 

RUBAIYAT:  Quatrians; as, the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam. Sometimes in pl. construed as sing., a poem in such stanzas. 

RUBATO:  Robbed; borrowed. Temple rubato. Etym: [It.] (Mus.) Borrowed time; -- a term applied to a style of performance in which some tones are held longer than their legitimate time, while others are proportionally curtailed. 

RUBBAGE:  Rubbish. [Obs.] 

RUBBERIZE:  To coat or impregnate with rubber or a rubber solution or preparation, as silk. 

RUBBIDGE:  Rubbish. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

RUBBING:  a. & n. from Rub, v. 

RUBBISH:  Waste or rejected matter; anything worthless; valueless stuff; trash; especially, fragments of building materials or fallen buildings; ruins; débris. What rubbish and what offal! Shak. he saw the town's one half in rubbish lie. Dryden. Rubbish pulley. See Gin block, under Gin. 

RUBBISH:  Of or pertaining to rubbish; of the quality of rubbish; trashy. De Quincey. 

RUBBLE:  A mass or stratum of fragments or rock lying under the alluvium, and derived from the neighboring rock. Lyell.  4. pl.  The whole of the bran of wheat before it is sorted into pollard, bran, etc. [Prov.Eng.] Simmonds. Coursed rubble, rubble masonry in which courses are formed by leveling off the work at certain heights. 

RUBBLESTONE:  See Rubble, 1 and 2. 

RUBBLEWORK:  Masonry constructed of unsquared stones that are irregular in size and shape. 

RUBBLY:  Relating to, or containing, rubble. 

RUBEDINOUS:  Reddish. [R.] M. Stuart. 

RUBEFACIENT:  Making red.  -- n. (Med.)  An external application which produces redness of the skin. 

RUBEFACTION:  The act or process of making red. 

RUBELET:  A little ruby. Herrick.  RUBELL; RUBELLE Ru*bell", Ru*belle", n. Etym: [L. rubellus reddish.]  A red color used in enameling. Weale. 

RUBELLA:  An acute specific disease with a dusky red cutaneous eruption resembling that of measles, but unattended by catarrhal symptoms; -- called also German measles. 

RUBELLITE:  A variety of tourmaline varying in color from a pale rose to a deep ruby, and containing lithium. 

RUBERYTHRINIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid extracted from madder root. It is a yellow crystalline substance from which alizarin is obtained. 

RUBESCENCE:  The quality or state of being rubescent; a reddening; a flush. 

RUBESCENT:  Growing or becoming red; tending to redness. 

RUBIACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of plants (Rubiaceæ) named after the madder (Rubia tinctoria), and including about three hundred and seventy genera and over four thousand species. Among them are the coffee tree, the trees yielding peruvian bark and quinine, the madder, the quaker ladies, and the trees bearing the edible fruits called genipap and Sierre Leone peach, besides many plants noted for the beauty or the fragrance of their blossoms. 

RUBIACIN:  A substance found in madder root, and probably identical with ruberythrinic acid. 

RUBIAN:  One of several color-producing glycosides found in madder root. 

RUBIANIC:  pertaining to, or derived from, rubian; specifically, designating an acid called also ruberythrinic acid. [Obs.]  RU BIBLE Ru" bi*ble, n.  A ribble. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RUBICAN:  Colored a prevailing red, bay, or black, with flecks of white or gray especially on the flanks; -- said of horses. Smart. 

RUBICELLE:  A variety of ruby of a yellowish red color, from Brazil. 

RUBICON:  A small river which separated Italy from Cisalpine Gaul, the province alloted to Julius Cæsar.  Note: By leading an army across this river, contrary to the prohibition of the civil government at Rome, Cæsar precipitated the civil war which resulted in the death of Pompey and the overthrow of the senate; hence, the phrase to pass or cross the Rubicon signifies to take the decisive step by which one is committed to a hazardous enterprise from which there is no retreat. 

RUBICUND:  Inclining to redness; ruddy; red. "His rubicund face." Longfellow. 

RUBICUNDITY:  The quality or state of being rubicund; ruddiness. To parade your rubicundity and gray hairs. Walpole. 

RUBIDIC:  Of or pertaining to rubidium; containing rubidium. 

RUBIDINE:  A nitrogenous base homologous with pyridine, obtained from coal tar as an oily liquid, C11H17N; also, any one of the group od metameric compounds of which rubidine is the type. 

RUBIDIUM:  A rare metallic element. It occurs quite widely, but in small quantities, and always combined. It is isolated as a soft yellowish white metal, analogous to potassium in most of its properties. Symbol Rb. Atomic weight, 85.2. 

RUBIFIC:  Making red; as, rubific rays. Grew. 

RUBIFICATION:  The act of making red. Howell. 

RUBIFORM:  Having the nature or quality of red; as, the rubiform rays of the sun. [R.] Sir I. newton. 

RUBIFY:  To redden. [R.] "Waters rubifying." Chaucer.  RUBIGINOSE; RUBIGINOUS Ru*big"i*nose`, Ru*big"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. rubiginosus, fr. rubigo, robigo, rust: cf. F. rubigineux.] (Bot.)  Having the appearance or color of iron rust; rusty-looking. 

RUBIGO:  same as Rust, n., 2. 

RUBIN:  A ruby. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RUBIOUS:  Red; ruddy. [Obs.] Shak. 

RUBIRETIN:  One of the red dye products extracted from madder root, and probably identical with ruberythrinic acid. 

RUBLE:  The unit of monetary value in Russia. It is divided into 100 copecks, and in the gold coin of the realm (as in the five and ten ruble pieces) is worth about 77 cents. The silver ruble is a coin worth about 60 cents. [Written also rouble.] 

RUBRIC:  That part of any work in the early manuscripts and typography which was colored red, to distinguish it from other portions. Hence, specifically: (a) A titlepage, or part of it, especially that giving the date and place of printing; also, the initial letters, etc., when printed in red. (b) (Law books) The title of a statute; -- so called as being anciently written in red letters. Bell. (c) (Liturgies) The directions and rules for the conduct of service, formerly written or printed in red; hence, also, an ecclesiastical or episcopal injunction; -- usually in the plural. All the clergy in England solemnly pledge themselves to observe the rubrics. Hook.  (d) Hence, that which is established or settled, as by authority; a thing definitely settled or fixed. Cowper. Nay, as a duty, it had no place or rubric in human conceptions before Christianity. De Quincey. 

RUBRIC:  To adorn ith red; to redden; to rubricate. [R.] Johnson.  RUBRIC; RUBRICAL Ru"bric, Ru"bric*al, a.  1. Colored in, or marked with, red; placed in rubrics. What though my name stood rubric on the walls Or plaistered posts, with claps, in capitals Pope.  2. Of or pertaining to the rubric or rubrics. "Rubrical eccentricities." C. Kingsley. 

RUBRICATE:  Marked with red. Sp 

RUBRICATE:  To mark or distinguished with red; to arrange as in a rubric; to establish in a settled and unchangeable form. Foxe. A system . . . according to which the thoughts of men were to be classed and rubricated forever after. Hare.  RUBRICIAN; RUBRICIST Ru*bri"cian, Ru"bri*cist, n.  One skilled in, or tenaciously adhering to, the rubric or rubrics. 

RUBRICITY:  Redness. [R.] 

RUBSTONE:  A stone for scouring or rubbing; a whetstone; a rub. 

RUBUS:  A genus of rosaceous plants, including the raspberry and blackberry. 

RUBY:  A precious stone of a carmine red color, sometimes verging to violet, or intermediate between carmine and hyacinth red. It is a red crystallized variety of corundum.  Note: Besides the true or Oriental ruby above defined, there are the balas ruby, or ruby spinel, a red variety of spinel, and the rock ruby, a red variety of garnet. Of rubies, sapphires, and pearles white. Chaucer.  2. The color of a ruby; carmine red; a red tint. The natural ruby of your cheeks. Shak.  3. That which has the color of the ruby, as red wine. Hence, a red blain or carbuncle.  4. (Print.)  See Agate, n., 2. [Eng.]  5. (Zoöl.)  Any species of South American humming birds of the genus Clytolæma. The males have a ruby-colored throat or breast. Ruby of arsenic, Ruby of sulphur (Chem.), a glassy substance of a red color and a variable composition, but always consisting chiefly of the disulphide of arsenic; -- called also ruby sulphur.  -- Ruby of zinc (Min.), zinc sulphide; the mineral zinc blende or sphalerite.  -- Ruby silver (Min.), red silver. See under Red. 

RUBY:  Ruby-colored; red; as, ruby lips. 

RUBY:  To make red; to redden. [R.] Pope. 

RUBYTAIL:  A European gold wasp (Chrysis ignita) which has the under side of the abdomen bright red, and the other parts deep bluish green with a metallic luster. The larva is parasitic in the nests of other wasps and of bees.  RUBY-TAILED Ru"by-tailed`, a.  Having the tail, or lower part of the body, bright red. 

RUBYTHROAT:  Any one of numerous species of humming birds belonging to Trochilus, Calypte, Stellula, and allies, in which the male has on the throat a brilliant patch of red feathers having metallic reflections; esp., the common humming bird of the Eastern United States (Trochilus colubris). 

RUBYWOOD:  red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood. 

RUCERVINE:  Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rucervus, which includes the swamp deer of India. 

RUCHING:  A ruche, or ruches collectively. 

RUCK:  A roc. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Drayton. 

RUCK:  To draw into wrinkles or unsightly folds; to crease; as, to ruck up a carpet. Smart. 

RUCK:  A wrinkle or crease in a piece of cloth, or in needlework. 

RUCK:  To cower; to huddle together; to squat; to sit, as a hen on eggs. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Gower. South. The sheep that rouketh in the fold. Chaucer. 

RUCTATION:  The act of belching wind. 

RUCTION:  An uproar; a quarrel; a noisy outbreak. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

RUD:  The rudd. 

RUD:  To make red. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RUDBECKIA:  A genus of composite plants, the coneflowers, consisting of perennial herbs with showy pedunculate heads, having a hemispherical involucre, sterile ray flowers, and a conical chaffy receptacle. There are about thirty species, exclusively North American. Rudbeckia hirta, the  black-eyed Susan, is a common weed in meadows. 

RUDD:  A fresh-water European fish of the Carp family (Leuciscus erythrophthalmus). It is about the size and shape of the roach, but it has the dorsal fin farther back, a stouter body, and red irises. Called also redeye, roud, finscale, and shallow. A blue variety is called azurine, or blue roach. 

RUDDER:  A riddle or sieve. [Prov. Eng.] 

RUDDER:  The mechanical appliance by means of which a vessel is guided or steered when in motion. It is a broad and flat blade made of wood or iron, with a long shank, and is fastened in an upright position, usually by one edge, to the sternpost of the vessel in such a way that it can be turned from side to side in the water by means of a tiller, wheel, or other attachment.  2. Fig.: That which resembles a rudder as a guide or governor; that which guides or governs the course. For rhyme the rudder is of verses. Hudibras. Balance rudder (Naut.), a rudder pivoted near the middle instead of at the edge, -- common on sharpies.  -- Drop rudder (Naut.), a rudder extending below the keel so as to be more effective in steering.  -- Rudder chain (Naut.), one of the loose chains or ropes which fasten the rudder to the quarters to prevent its loss in case it gets unshipped, and for operating it in case the tiller or the wheel is broken.  -- Rudder coat (Naut.), a covering of tarred canvas used to prevent water from entering the rudderhole.  -- Rudder fish. (Zoöl.) (a) The pilot fish. (b) The amber fish (Seriola zonata), which is bluish having six broad black bands. (c) A plain greenish black American fish (Leirus perciformis); -- called also black rudder fish, logfish, and barrel fish. The name is also applied to other fishes which follow vessels.  -- Rudder pendants (Naut.), ropes connected with the rudder chains. 

RUDDERHEAD:  The upper end of the rudderpost, to which the tiller is attashed. 

RUDDERHOLE:  The hole in the deck through which the rudderpost passes. 

RUDDERLESS:  Without a rudder. 

RUDDERPOST:  The shank of a rudder, having the blade at one end and the attachments for operating it at the other. 

RUDDERSTOCK:  The main part or blade of the rudder, which is connected by hinges, or the like, with the sternpost of a vessel. 

RUDDIED:  Made ruddy or red. 

RUDDILY:  In a ruddy manner. Byron. 

RUDDINESS:  The quality or state of being ruddy; as, the ruddiness of the cheeks or the sky. 

RUDDLE:  To raddle or twist. [Obs.] 

RUDDLE:  A riddle or sieve. [Obs.] Holland. 

RUDDLE:  A species of red earth colored by iron sesquioxide; red ocher. 

RUDDLE:  To mark with ruddle; to raddle; to rouge. "Their ruddled cheeks." Thackeray. A fair sheep newly ruddled. Lady M. W. Montagu. 

RUDDOCK:  The European robin. "The tame ruddock and the coward kite." Chaucer.  2. A piece of gold money; -- probably because the gold of coins was often reddened by copper alloy. Called also red ruddock, and golden ruddock. [Obs.] Great pieces of gold . . . red ruddocks. Florio. 

RUDDY:  To make ruddy. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

RUDENTURE:  Cabling. See Cabling. gwilt. 

RUDERARY:  Of or pertaining to rubbish.. [Obs.] Bailey. 

RUDESBY:  An uncivil, turbulent fellow. [Obs.] Shak.  RUDESHEIMER; RUEDESHEIMER Rü"des*heim`er, n.  A German wine made near Rüdesheim, on the Rhine. 

RUDIMENT:  An imperfect organ or part, or one which is never developed. 

RUDIMENT:  To furnish with first principles or rules; to insrtuct in the rudiments. Gayton. 

RUDIMENTAL:  Rudimentary. Addison. 

RUDIMENTARY:  Very imperfectly developed; in an early stage of development; embryonic. 

RUDISH:  Somewhat rude. Foote. 

RUDISTES:  An extinct order or suborder of bivalve mollusks characteristic of the Cretaceous period; -- called also Rudista. See Illust. under Hippurite. 

RUDITY:  Rudeness; ignorance. [R.] 

RUDMASDAY:  Either of the feasts of the Holy Cross, occuring on May 3 and September 14, annually. 

RUDOLPHINE:  Pertaining to, or designating, a set of astronomical tables computed by Kepler, and founded on the observations of Tycho Brahe; - - so named from Rudolph II., emperor of Germany. 

RUE:  A perennial suffrutescent plant (Ruta graveolens), having a strong, heavy odor and a bitter taste; herb of grace. It is used in medicine. Then purged with euphrasy and rue The visual nerve, for he had much to see. Milton. They [the exorcists] are to try the devil by holy water, incense, sulphur, rue, which from thence, as we suppose, came to be called herb of grace. Jer. Taylor.  2. Fig.: Bitterness; disappointment; grief; regret. Goat's rue. See under Goat.  -- Rue anemone, a pretty springtime flower (Thalictrum anemonides) common in the United States.  -- Wall rue, a little fern (Asplenium Ruta-muraria) common on walls in Europe. 

RUE:  Sorrow; repetance. [Obs.] Shak. 

RUEFUL:  See rewel bone. [Obs.] 

RUELLE:  A private circle or assembly at a private house; a circle. [Obs.] Dryden. 

RUFESCENT:  Reddish; tinged with red. 

RUFF:  To trump. 

RUFF:  A low, vibrating beat of a drum, not so loud as a roll; a ruffle.  6. (Mach.)  A collar on a shaft ot other piece to prevent endwise motion. See Illust. of Collar.  7. (Zoöl.)  A set of lengthened or otherwise modified feathers round, or on, the neck of a bird.  8. (Zoöl.) (a) A limicoline bird of Europe and Asia (Pavoncella, or Philommachus, pugnax) allied to the sandpipers. The males during the breeding season have a large ruff of erectile feathers, variable in their colors, on the neck, and yellowish naked tubercles on the face. They are polygamous, and are noted for their pugnacity in the breeding season. The female is called reeve, or rheeve. (b) A variety of the domestic pigeon, having a ruff of its neck. 

RUFF:  To beat with the ruff or ruffle, as a drum.  3. (Hawking)  To hit, as the prey, without fixing it.  RUFF; RUFFE Ruff, Ruffe, n. Etym: [OE. ruffe.] (Zoöl.)  A small freshwater European perch (Acerina vulgaris); -- called also pope, blacktail, and stone, or striped, perch. 

RUFFED:  Furnished with a ruff. Ruffed grouse (Zoöl.), a North American grouse (Bonasa umbellus) common in the wooded districts of the Northern United States. The male has a ruff of brown or black feathers on each side of the neck, and is noted for the loud drumming sound he makes during the breeding season. Called also tippet grouse, partridge, birch partridge, pheasant, drummer, and white-flesher.  -- ruffed lemur (Zoöl.), a species of lemur (lemur varius) having a conspicuous ruff on the sides of the head. Its color is varied with black and white. Called also ruffed maucaco. 

RUFFIAN:  brutal; cruel; savagely boisterous; murderous; as, ruffian rage. 

RUFFIAN:  To play the ruffian; to rage; to raise tumult. [R.] Shak. 

RUFFIANAGE:  Ruffians, collectively; a body of ruffians. "The vilest ruffianage." Sir F. Palgrave. 

RUFFIANISH:  Having the qualities or manners of a ruffian; ruffianly. 

RUFFIANLIKE:  Ruffianly. Fulke. 

RUFFIANLY:  Like a ruffian; bold in crimes; characteristic of a ruffian; violent; brutal. 

RUFFIANOUS:  Ruffianly. [Obs.] Chapman. 

RUFFIN:  Disordered. [Obs.] His ruffin rainment all was stained with blood. Spenser. 

RUFFLE:  To beat with the ruff or ruffle, as a drum.  6. To discompose; to agitate; to disturb. These ruffle the tranquillity of the mind. Sir W. Hamilton. But, ever after, the small violence done Rankled in him and ruffled all his heart. Tennyson.  7. To throw into disorder or confusion. Where best He might the ruffled foe infest. Hudibras.  8. To throw together in a disorderly manner. [R.] I ruffled up falen leaves in heap. Chapman To ruffle the feathers of, to exite the resentment of; to irritate. 

RUFFLE:  A low, vibrating beat of a drum, not so loud as a roll; -- called also ruff. H. L. Scott.  4. (Zoöl.)  The connected series of large egg capsules, or oöthecæ, of any one of several species of American marine gastropods of the genus Fulgur. See Oötheca. Ruffle of a boot, the top turned down, and scalloped or plaited. Halliwell. 

RUFFLELESS:  Having no ruffle. 

RUFFLEMENT:  The act of ruffling. [R.] 

RUFIGALLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is obtained from gallic acid as a brown or red crystalline substance, and is related to rufiopin and anthracene. 

RUFIOPIN:  A yellowish red crystalline substance related to anthracene, and obtained from opianic acid. 

RUFOL:  A phenol derivative of anthracene obtained as a white crystalline substance, which on oxidation produces a red dyestuff related to anthraquinone. 

RUFOUS:  Reddish; of a yellowish red or brownish red color; tawny. 

RUFT:  Eructation; belching. [Obs.] 

RUFTERHOOD:  A kind of hood for a hawk. 

RUG:  To pull roughly or hastily; to plunder; to spoil; to tear. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

RUGA:  A wrinkle; a fold; as, the rugæ of the stomach. 

RUGATE:  Having alternate ridges and depressions; wrinkled. Dana. 

RUGGING:  A coarse kind of woolen cloth, used for wrapping, blanketing, etc.  RUG-GOWNED Rug"-gowned, a.  Wearing a coarse gown or shaggy garment made of rug. Beau. & Fl. 

RUGGY:  Rugged; rough. [Obs.] "With ruggy, ashy hairs." Chaucer.  RUG-HEADED Rug"-head`ed, a.  Having shaggy hair; shock-headed. [Obs.] Those rough rug-headed kerns. Shak. 

RUGIN:  A nappy cloth. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

RUGINE:  An instrument for scraping the periosteum from bones; a raspatory. 

RUGINE:  To scrape or rasp, as a bone; to scale. [R.] Wiseman. 

RUGOSA:  An extinct tribe of fossil corals, including numerous species, many of them of large size. They are characteristic of the Paleozoic formations. The radiating septs, when present, are usually in multiples of four. See Cyathophylloid. 

RUGOSE:  Wrinkled; full of wrinkles; specifically (Bot.), having the veinlets sunken and the spaces between them elevated, as the leaves of the sage and horehound. 

RUGOSITY:  The quality or state of being rugose. 

RUGOUS:  Wrinkled; rugose. 

RUGULOSE:  Somewhat rugose.  RUHMKORFF'S COIL Ruhm"korff's coil`. Etym: [So called from its inventor, Ruhmkorff, a german physicist.] (Elec.)  See Induction coil, under Induction. 

RUIN:  To bring to ruin; to cause to fall to pieces and decay; to make to perish; to bring to destruction; to bring to poverty or bankruptcy; to impair seriously; to damage essentially; to overthrow. this mortal house I'll ruin. Shak. By thee raised, I ruin all my foes. Milton. The eyes of other people are the eyes that ruin us. Franklin. By the fireside there are old men seated, Seeling ruined cities in the ashes. Longfellow. 

RUIN:  To fall to ruins; to go to ruin; to become decayed or dilapidated; to perish. [R.] Though he his house of polished marble build, Yet shall it ruin like the moth's frail cell. Sandys. If we are idle, and disturb the industrious in their business, we shall ruin the faster. Locke. 

RUINABLE:  Capable of being ruined. 

RUINATE:  To fall; to tumble. [Obs.] 

RUINATE:  Involved in ruin; ruined. My brother Edward lives in pomp and state, I in a mansion here all ruinate. J. Webster. 

RUINATION:  The act of ruining, or the state of being ruined. 

RUINER:  One who, or that which, ruins. 

RUINIFORM:  Having the appearance of ruins, or of the ruins of houses; -- said of certain minerals. 

RUKH:  A large bird, supposed by some to be the same as the extinct Epiornis of Madagascar. [Obs.] 

RULABLE:  That may be ruled; subject to rule; accordant or conformable to rule. Bacon. 

RULE:  An order regulating the practice of the courts, or an order made between parties to an action or a suit. Wharton.  5. (Math.)  A determinate method prescribed for performing any operation and producing a certain result; as, a rule for extracting the cube root.  6. (Gram.)  A general principle concerning the formation or use of words, or a concise statement thereof; thus, it is a rule in England, that s or es , added to a noun in the singular number, forms the plural of that noun; but "man" forms its plural "men", and is an exception to the rule.  7. (a) A straight strip of wood, metal, or the like, which serves as a guide in drawing a straight line; a ruler. (b) A measuring instrument consisting of a graduated bar of wood, ivory, metal, or the like, which is usually marked so as to show inches and fractions of an inch, and jointed so that it may be folded compactly. A judicious artist will use his eye, but he will trust only to his rule. South.  8. (Print.) (a) A thin plate of metal (usually brass) of the same height as the type, and used for printing lines, as between columns on the same page, or in tabular work. (b) A composing rule. See under Conposing. As a rule, as a general thing; in the main; usually; as, he behaves well, as a rule.  -- Board rule, Caliber rule,etc. See under Board, Caliber, etc.  -- Rule joint, a knuckle joint having shoulders that abut when the connected pieces come in line with each other, and thus permit folding in one direction only.  -- Rule of three (Arith.), that rule which directs, when three terms are given, how to find a fourth, which shall have the same ratio to the third term as the second has to the first; proportion. See Proportion, 5 (b).  -- Rule of thumb, any rude process or operation, like that of using the thumb as a rule in measuring; hence, judgment and practical experience as distinguished from scientific knowledge.  Syn.  -- regulation; law; precept; maxim; guide; canon; order; method; direction; control; government; sway; empire. 

RULE:  To require or command by rule; to give as a direction or order of court.  5. To mark with lines made with a pen, pencil, etc., guided by a rule or ruler; to print or mark with lines by means of a rule or other contrivance effecting a similar result; as, to rule a sheet of paper of a blank book. Ruled surface (Geom.), any surface that may be described by a straight line moving according to a given law; -- called also a scroll. 

RULE:  To lay down and settle a rule or order of court; to decide an incidental point; to enter a rule. Burril. Bouvier.  3. (Com.)  To keep within a (certain) range for a time; to be in general, or as a rule; as, prices ruled lower yesterday than the day before. 

RULELESS:  Destitute of rule; lawless. Spenser.  RULE-MONGER Rule"-mon`ger, n.  A stickler for rules; a slave of rules [R.] Hare. 

RULING:  A decision or rule of a judge or a court, especially an oral decision, as in excluding evidence. 

RULINGLY:  In a ruling manner; so as to rule. 

RULLICHIES:  Chopped meat stuffed into small bags of tripe. They are cut in slices and fried. [Local, New York] 

RULY:  orderly; easily restrained; -- opposed to Ant: unruly. [Obs.] Gascoigne. 

RUM:  A kind of intoxicating liquor distilled from cane juice, or from the scumming of the boiled juice, or from treacle or molasses, or from the lees of former distillations. Also, sometimes used colloquially as a generic or a collective name for intoxicating liquor. Rum bud, a grog blossom. [Colloq.] -- Rum shrub, a drink composed of rum, water, sugar, and lime juice or lemon juice, with some flavoring extract. 

RUM:  Old-fashioned; queer; odd; as, a rum idea; a rum fellow. [Slang] Dickens. 

RUM:  A queer or odd person or thing; a country parson. [Slang, Obs.] Swift. 

RUMBLE:  To cause to pass through a rumble, or shaking machine. See Rumble, n., 4. 

RUMBLER:  One who, or that which, rumbles. 

RUMBLING:  a. & n. from Rumble, v. i. 

RUMBLINGLY:  In a rumbling manner. 

RUMBO:  grog. [Obs.] Sir W. Scott. 

RUMBOWLINE:  Same as Rombowline. 

RUMEN:  The first stomach of ruminants; the paunch; the fardingbag. See Illust. below.  2. The cud of a ruminant. 

RUMICIN:  A yellow crystalline substance found in the root of yellow dock (Rumex crispus) and identical with chrysophanic acid. 

RUMINAL:  Ruminant; ruminating. [R.] 

RUMINANT:  Chewing the cud; characterized by chewing again what has been swallowed; of or pertaining to the Ruminantia. 

RUMINANT:  A ruminant animal; one of the Ruminantia. 

RUMINANTIA:  A division of Artiodactyla having four stomachs. This division includes the camels, deer, antelopes, goats, sheep, neat cattle, and allies.  Note: The vegetable food, after the first mastication, enters the first stomach (r). It afterwards passes into the second (n), where it is moistened, and formed into pellets which the animal has the power of bringing back to the mouth to be chewed again, after which it is swallowed into the third stomach (m), whence it passes to the fourth (s), where it is finally digested. 

RUMINANTLY:  In a ruminant manner; by ruminating, or chewing the cud. 

RUMINATE:  Having a hard albumen penetrated by irregular channels filled with softer matter, as the nutmeg and the seeds of the North American papaw. 

RUMINATION:  The regurgitation of food from the stomach after it has been swallowed, -- occasionally oberved as a morbid phenomenon in man. 

RUMINATIVE:  Inclined to, or engaged in, rumination or meditation. 

RUMINATOR:  One who ruminates or muses; a meditator. 

RUMKIN:  A popular or jocular name for a drinking vessel. [Obs.] 

RUMMAGE:  A place or room for the stowage of cargo in a ship; also, the act of stowing cargo; the pulling and moving about of packages incident to close stowage; -- formerly written romage. [Obs.]  2. A searching carefully by looking into every corner, and by turning things over. He has such a general rummage and reform in the office of matrimony. Walpole. Rummage sale, a clearance sale of unclaimed goods in a public store, or of odds and ends which have accumulated in a shop. Simmonds. 

RUMMAGE:  To make room in, as a ship, for the cargo; to move about, as packages, ballast, so as to permit close stowage; to stow closely; to pack; -- formerly written roomage, and romage. [Obs.] They night bring away a great deal more than they do, if they would take pain in the romaging. Hakluyt.  2. To search or examine thoroughly by looking into every corner, and turning over or removing goods or other things; to examine, as a book, carefully, turning over leaf after leaf. He . . . searcheth his pockets, and taketh his keys, and so rummageth all his closets and trunks. Howell. What schoolboy of us has not rummaged his Greek dictionary in vain for a satisfactory account! M. Arnold. 

RUMMAGE:  To search a place narrowly. I have often rummaged for old books in Little Britain and Duck Lane. Swift. [His house] was haunted with a jolly ghost, that . . . . . . rummaged like a rat. Tennyson. 

RUMMAGER:  A person on shipboard whose business was to take charge of stowing the cargo; -- formerly written roomager, and romager. [Obs.] The master must provide a perfect mariner, called a romager, to range and bestow all merchandise. Hakluyt . 

RUMMER:  A large and tall glass, or drinking cup. [Obs.] J. Philips. 

RUMMY:  Of or pertaining to rum; characteristic of rum; as a rummy flavor. 

RUMMY:  One who drinks rum; an habitually intemperate person. [Low] 

RUMMY:  Strange; odd. [Slang] 

RUMNEY:  A sort of Spanish wine. [Obs.] 

RUMOR:  To report by rumor; to tell. 'T was rumored My father 'scaped from out the citadel. Dryden. 

RUMORER:  A teller of news; especially, one who spreads false reports. Shak. 

RUMPER:  A member or a supporter of the Rump Parliament. I. Disraeli.  RUMP-FED Rump"-fed, a.  A Shakespearean word of uncertain meaning. Perhaps "fattened in the rump, pampered." "The rump-fed ronyon." 

RUMPLE:  To make uneven; to form into irregular inequalities; to wrinkle; to crumple; as, to rumple an apron or a cravat. They would not give a dog's ear of their most rumpled and ragged Scoth paper for twenty of your fairest assignats. Burke. 

RUMPLE:  A fold or plait; a wrinkle. Dryden. 

RUMPLED:  Wrinkled; crumpled. Pope. 

RUMPLESS:  Destitute of a rump. 

RUMPLY:  Rumpled. Carlyle. 

RUMPUS:  A disturbance; noise and confusion; a quarrel. [Colloq.] 

RUMSELLER:  One who sells rum; one who deals in intoxicating liquors; especially, one who sells spirituous beverages at retail. 

RUN:  To move rapidly by springing steps so that there is an instant in each step when neither foot touches the ground; -- so distinguished from walking in athletic competition. As thing run, according to the usual order, conditions, quality, etc.; on the average; without selection or specification.  -- To let run (Naut.), to allow to pass or move freely; to slacken or loosen.  -- To run after, to pursue or follow; to search for; to endeavor to find or obtain; as to run after similies. Locke.  -- To run away, to flee; to escape; to elope; to run without control or guidance.  -- To run away with. (a) To convey away hurriedly; to accompany in escape or elopement. (b) To drag rapidly and with violence; as, a horse runs away with a carriage.  -- To run down. (a) To cease to work or operate on account of the exhaustion of the motive power; -- said of clocks, watches, etc. (b) To decline in condition; as, to run down in health.  -- To run down a coast, to sail along it.  -- To run for an office, to stand as a candidate for an office.  -- To run in or into. (a) To enter; to step in. (b) To come in collision with.  -- To run in trust, to run in debt; to get credit. [Obs.] -- To run in with. (a) To close; to comply; to agree with. [R.] T. Baker. (b) (Naut.) To make toward; to near; to sail close to; as, to run in with the land.  -- To run mad, To run mad after or on. See under Mad.  -- To run on. (a) To be continued; as, their accounts had run on for a year or two without a settlement. (b) To talk incessantly. (c) To continue a course. (d) To press with jokes or ridicule; to abuse with sarcasm; to bear hard on. (e) (Print.) To be continued in the same lines, without making a break or beginning a new paragraph.  -- To run out. (a) To come to an end; to expire; as, the lease runs out Michaelmas. (b) To extend; to spread. "Insectile animals . . . run all out into legs." Hammond. (c) To expatiate; as, to run out into beautiful digressions. (d) To be wasted or exhausted; to become poor; to become extinct; as, an estate managed without economy will soon run out. And had her stock been less, no doubt She must have long ago run out. Dryden. -- To run over. (a) To overflow; as, a cup runs over, or the liquor runs over. (b) To go over, examine, or rehearse cursorily. (c) To ride or drive over; as, to run over a child.  -- To run riot, to go to excess.  -- To run through. (a) To go through hastily; as to run through a book. (b) To spend wastefully; as, to run through an estate.  -- To run to seed, to expend or exhaust vitality in producing seed, as a plant; figuratively and colloquially, to cease growing; to lose vital force, as the body or mind.  -- To run up, to rise; to swell; to grow; to increase; as, accounts of goods credited run up very fast. But these, having been untrimmed for many years, had run up into great bushes, or rather dwarf trees. Sir W. Scott. -- To run with. (a) To be drenched with, so that streams flow; as, the streets ran with blood. (b) To flow while charged with some foreign substance. "Its rivers ran with gold." J. H. Newman. 

RUN:  The horizontal distance to which a drift may be carried, either by license of the proprietor of a mine or by the nature of the formation; also, the direction which a vein of ore or other substance takes.  12. (Mus.)  A roulade, or series of running tones.  13. (Mil.)  The greatest degree of swiftness in marching. It is executed upon the same principles as the double-quick, but with greater speed.  14. The act of migrating, or ascending a river to spawn; -- said of fish; also, an assemblage or school of fishes which migrate, or ascend a river for the purpose of spawning.  15. In baseball, a complete circuit of the bases made by a player, which enables him to score one; in cricket, a passing from one wicket to the other, by which one point is scored; as, a player made three runs; the side went out with two hundred runs. The "runs" are made from wicket to wicket, the batsmen interchanging ends at each run. R. A. Proctor.  16. A pair or set of millstones. At the long run, now, commonly, In the long run, in or during the whole process or course of things taken together; in the final result; in the end; finally. [Man] starts the inferior of the brute animals, but he surpasses them in the long run. J. H. Newman. -- Home run. (a) A running or returning toward home, or to the point from which the start was made. Cf. Home stretch. (b) (Baseball) See under Home.  -- The run, or The common run, etc., ordinary persons; the generality or average of people or things; also, that which ordinarily occurs; ordinary current, course, or kind. I saw nothing else that is superior to the common run of parks. Walpole. Burns never dreamed of looking down on others as beneath him, merely because he was conscious of his own vast superiority to the common run of men. Prof. Wilson. His whole appearance was something out of the common run. W. Irving. -- To let go by the run (Naut.), to loosen and let run freely, as lines; to let fall without restraint, as a sail. 

RUNAGATE:  A fugitive; a vagabond; an apostate; a renegade. See Renegade. Bunyan. Wretched runagates from the jail. De Quincey. Who has not been a runagate from duty Hare.  RUN-AROUND Run"-a*round`, n. (Med.)  A whitlow running around the finger nail, but not affecting the bone. [Colloq.] 

RUNCATION:  A weedling. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

RUNCH:  The wild radish. Dr. Prior. 

RUNCINATE:  Pinnately cut with the lobes pointing downwards, as the leaf of the dandelion. 

RUNDEL:  A moat with water in it; also, a small stream; a runlet. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

RUNDEL:  A circle. [Prov. Eng.] 

RUNDLE:  One of the pins or trundles of a lantern wheel. 

RUNDLET:  A small barrel of no certain dimensions. It may contain from 3 to 20 gallons, but it usually holds about 14 [Written also runlet.] 

RUNE:  Old Norse poetry expressed in runes. Runes were upon his tongue, As on the warrior's sword. Longfellow. Rune stone, a stone bearing a runic inscription. 

RUNER:  A bard, or learned man, among the ancient Goths. Sir W. Temple. 

RUNG:  imp. & p. p. of Ring. 

RUNG:  A floor timber in a ship.  2. One of the rounds of a ladder.  3. One of the stakes of a cart; a spar; a heavy staff.  4. (Mach.)  One of the radial handles projecting from the rim of a steering wheel; also, one of the pins or trundles of a lantern wheel. 

RUNGHEAD:  The upper end of a floor timber in a ship. 

RUNIC:  Of or pertaining to a rune, to runes, or to the Norsemen; as, runic verses; runic letters; runic names; runic rhyme. Runic staff. See Clog almanac, under Clog.  -- Runic wand, a willow wand bearing runes, formerly thought to have been used by the heathen tribes of Northern Europe in magical ceremonies. 

RUNLET:  A little run or stream; a streamlet; a brook. To trace out to its marshy source every runlet that has cast in its tiny pitcherful with the rest. Lowell. 

RUNLET:  Same as Rundlet. "A stoup of sack, or a runlet of canary." Sir W. Scott. 

RUNNEL:  A rivulet or small brook. Buddling rundels joined the sound. Collins. By the very sides of the way . . . there are slow runnels, in which one can see the minnows swimming. Masson. 

RUNNER:  A slender trailing branch which takes root at the joints or end and there forms new plants, as in the strawberry and the common cinquefoil.  7. The rotating stone of a set of millstones.  8. (Naut.)  A rope through a block and used to increase the mechanical power of a tackle. Totten.  9. One of the pieces on which a sled or sleigh slides; also the part or blade of a skate which slides on the ice.  10. (Founding) (a) A horizontal channel in a mold, through which the metal flows to the cavity formed by the pattern; also, the waste metal left in such a channel. (b) A trough or channel for leading molten metal from a furnace to a ladle, mold, or pig bed.  11. The movable piece to which the ribs of an umbrella are attached.  12. (Zoöl.)  A food fish (Elagatis pinnulatis) of Florida and the West Indies; -- called also skipjack, shoemaker, and yellowtail. The name alludes to its rapid successive leaps from the water.  13. (Zoöl.)  Any cursorial bird.  14. (Mech.) (a) A movable slab or rubber used in grinding or polishing a surface of stone. (b) A tool on which lenses are fastened in a group, for polishing or grinding. 

RUNNET:  See Rennet. 

RUNNING:  Extending by a slender climbing or trailing stem; as, a running vine.  6. (med.)  Discharging pus; as, a running sore. Running block (Mech.), a block in an arrangement of pulleys which rises or sinks with the weight which is raised or lowered.  -- Running board, a narrow platform extending along the side of a locomotive.  -- Running bowsprit (Naut.) Same as Reefing bowsprit.  -- Running days (Com.), the consecutive days occupied on a voyage under working days. Simmonds.  -- Running fire, a constant fire of musketry or cannon.  -- Running gear, the wheels and axles of a vehicle, and their attachments, in distinction from the body; all the working parts of a locomotive or other machine, in distinction from the framework.  -- Running hand, a style of rapid writing in which the letters are usually slanted and the words formed without lifting the pen; -- distinguished from round hand.  -- Running part (Naut.), that part of a rope that is hauled upon, -- in distinction from the standing part.  -- Running rigging (Naut.), that part of a ship's rigging or ropes which passes through blocks, etc.; -- is distinction from standing rigging.  -- Running title (Print.), the title of a book or chapter continued from page to page on the upper margin. 

RUNNING:  The act of one who, or of that which runs; as, the running was slow.  2. That which runs or flows; the quantity of a liquid which flows in a certain time or during a certain operation; as, the first running of a still.  3. The discharge from an ulcer or other sore. At long running, in the long run. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  RUNNING LOAD Run"ning load. (Aëronautics)  (a) The air pressure supported by each longitudinal foot segment of a wing.  (b) Commonly, the whole weight of aëroplane and load divided by the span, or length from tip to tip. 

RUNNINGLY:  In a running manner. 

RUNNION:  See Ronion. 

RUNOLOGY:  The science of runes.  -- Ru*nol"o*gist, n. 

RUNROUND:  A felon or whitlow. [Colloq. U.S.] 

RUNT:  Any animal which is unusually small, as compared with others of its kind; -- applied particulary to domestic animals.  2. (Zoöl.)  A variety of domestic pigeon, related to the barb and carrier.  3. A dwarf; also, a mean, despicable, boorish person; -- used opprobriously. Before I buy a bargain of such runts, I'll buy a college for bears, and live among 'em. Beau. & Fl.  4. The dead stump of a tree; also, the stem of a plant. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Neither young poles nor old runts are durable. Holland. 

RUNTY:  Like a runt; diminutive; mean. 

RUPEE:  A silver coin, and money of account, in the East Indies.  Note: The valuation of the rupee of sixteen annas, the standard coin of India, by the United States Treasury departament, varies from time to time with the price silver. In 1889 it was rated at about thirty- two cents. 

RUPELLARY:  Rocky. [Obs.] "This rupellary nidary." Evelyn.  RUPERT'S DROP Ru"pert's drop`.  A kind of glass drop with a long tail, made by dropping melted glass into water. It is remarkable for bursting into fragments when the surface is scratched or the tail broken; -- so called from Prince Rupert, nephew of Charles I., by whom they were first brought to England. Called also Rupert's ball, and glass tear. 

RUPIA:  An eruption upon the skin, consisting of vesicles with inflamed base and filled with serous, purulent, or bloody fluid, which dries up, forming a blackish crust. 

RUPIAL:  Of or pertaining to rupia. 

RUPICOLA:  A genus of beautiful South American passerine birds, including the cock of the rock.  Note: The species are remarkable for having an elevated fan-shaped crest of feathers on the head, and for the beautiful color of their plumage, which is mostly some delicate shade of yellow or orange. 

RUPICOLINE:  Rock-inhabiting. 

RUPTION:  A breaking or bursting open; breach; rupture. "By ruption or apertion." Wiseman. 

RUPTUARY:  One not of noble blood; a plebeian; a roturier. [R.] The exclusion of the French ruptuaries ("roturiers," for history must find a word for this class when it speaks of other nations) from the order of nobility. Chenevix. 

RUPTURE:  Hernia. See Hernia.  4. A bursting open, as of a steam boiler, in a less sudden manner than by explosion. See Explosion. Modulus of rupture. (Engin.) See under Modulus.  Syn.  -- Fracture; breach; break; burst; disruption; dissolution. See Fracture. 

RUPTURE:  To suffer a breach or disruption. 

RUPTURED:  Having a rupture, or hernia. 

RURALES:  The gossamer-winged butterflies; a family of small butterflies, including the hairstreaks, violets, and theclas. 

RURALIST:  One who leads a rural life. Coventry. 

RURALIZE:  To render rural; to give a rural appearance to. 

RURALIZE:  To become rural; to go into the country; to rusticate. 

RURALLY:  In a rural manner; as in the country. 

RURALNESS:  The quality or state of being rural. 

RURICOLIST:  An inhabitant of the country. [R.] Bailey. 

RURIDECANAL:  Of or pertaining to a rural dean; as, a ruridecanal district; the ruridecanal intellect. [R.] 

RURIGENOUS:  Born in the country. [Obs.] 

RUSE:  An artifice; trick; stratagem; wile; fraund; deceit. Ruse de guerre ( Etym: [F.], a stratagem of war. 

RUSH:  A name given to many aquatic or marsh-growing endogenous plants with soft, slender stems, as the species of Juncus and Scirpus.  Note: Some species are used in bottoming chairs and plaiting mats, and the pith is used in some places for wicks to lamps and rushlights.  2. The merest trifle; a straw. John Bull's friendship is not worth a rush. Arbuthnot. Bog rush. See under Bog.  -- Club rush, any rush of the genus Scirpus.  -- Flowering rush. See under Flowering.  -- Nut rush (a) Any plant of the genus Scleria, rushlike plants with hard nutlike fruits. (b) A name for several species of Cyperus having tuberous roots.  -- Rush broom, an Australian leguminous plant (Viminaria denudata), having long, slender branches. Also, the Spanish broom. See under Candle.  -- Rush grass, any grass of the genus Vilfa, grasses with wiry stems and one-flowered spikelets.  -- Rush toad (Zoöl.), the natterjack.  -- Scouring rush (Bot.) Same as Dutch rush, under Dutch.  -- Spike rush, any rushlike plant of the genus Eleocharis, in which the flowers grow in dense spikes.  -- Sweet rush, a sweet-scented grass of Arabia, etc. (Andropogon schoenanthus), used in Oriental medical practice.  -- Wood rush, any plant of the genus Luzula, which differs in some technical characters from Juncus. 

RUSH:  A kind of rural festival at the dedication of a church, when the parishioners brought rushes to strew the church. [Eng.] Nares. 

RUSHBUCKLER:  A bullying and violent person; a braggart; a swashbuckler. [Obs.] That flock of stout, bragging rushbucklers. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

RUSHED:  Abounding or covered with rushes. 

RUSHER:  One who rushes. Whitlock. 

RUSHER:  One who strewed rushes on the floor at dances. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

RUSHINESS:  The quality or state of abounding with rushes. 

RUSHINGLY:  In a rushing manner. 

RUSHLIGHT:  A rush candle, or its light; hence, a small, feeble light. 

RUSHLIKE:  Resembling a rush; weak. 

RUSINE:  Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rusa, which includes the sambur deer (Rusa Aristotelis) of India. Rusine antler (Zoöl.), an antler with the brow tyne simple, and the beam forked at the tip. 

RUSMA:  A depilatory made of orpiment and quicklime, and used by the Turks. See Rhusma. 

RUSS:  Of or pertaining to the Russians. 

RUSSETING:  See Russet, n., 2 and 4. 

RUSSETY:  Of a russet color; russet. 

RUSSIA:  A country of Europe and Asia. Russia iron, a kind of sheet iron made in Russia, having a lustrous blue-black surface.  -- Russia leather, a soft kind of leather, made originally in Russia but now elsewhere, having a peculiar odor from being impregnated with an oil obtained from birch bark. It is much used in bookbinding, on account of its not being subject to mold, and being proof against insects.  -- Russia matting, matting manufactured in Russia from the inner bark of the linden (Tilia Europæa). 

RUSSIAN:  Of or pertaining to Russia, its inhabitants, or language.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Russia; the language of Russia. Russian bath. See under Bath.  RUSSIAN CHURCH Rus"sian Church.  The established church of the Russian empire. It forms a portion, by far the largest, of the Eastern Church and is governed by the Holy Synod. The czar is the head of the church, but he has never claimed the right of deciding questions of theology and dogma. 

RUSSIANIZE:  To make Russian, or more or less like the Russians; as, to Russianize the Poles. 

RUSSIFICATION:  The act or process of being Russified. 

RUSSIFY:  To Russianize; as, to Russify conquered tribes.  RUSSOPHILE; RUSSOPHILIST Rus"so*phile, Rus"soph"i*list, n. Etym: [Russia + Gr. to love: cf. F. russophile.]  One who, not being a Russian, favors Russian policy and aggrandizement.  -- Rus*soph"ilism, n. [Chiefly newspaper words.]  RUSSOPHOBE; RUSSOPHOBIST Rus"so*phobe, Rus*soph"o*bist, Etym: [Russia + Gr.  One who dreads Russia or Russian influence. [Words sometimes found in the newspapers.] 

RUSSOPHOBIA:  Morbid dread of Russia or of Russian influence. 

RUST:  The reddish yellow coating formed on iron when exposed to moist air, consisting of ferric oxide or hydroxide; hence, by extension, any metallic film of corrosion.  2. (Bot.)  A minute mold or fungus forming reddish or rusty spots on the leaves and stems of cereal and other grasses (Trichobasis Rubigo- vera), now usually believed to be a form or condition of the corn mildew (Puccinia graminis). As rust, it has solitary reddish spores; as corn mildew, the spores are double and blackish.  Note: Rust is also applied to many other minute fungi which infest vegetation, such as the species of Ustilago, Uredo, and Lecythea.  3. That which resembles rust in appearance or effects. Specifically: (a) A composition used in making a rust joint. See Rust joint, below. (b) Foul matter arising from degeneration; as, rust on salted meat. (c) Corrosive or injurious accretion or influence. Sacred truths cleared from all rust and dross of human mixtures. Eikon Basilike.  Note: Rust is used in the formation of compounds of obvious meaning; as, rust-colored, rust-consumed, rust-eaten, and the like. Rust joint, a joint made between surfaces of iron by filling the space between them with a wet mixture of cast-iron borings, sal ammoniac, and sulphur, which by oxidation becomes hard, and impervious to steam, water, etc.  -- Rust mite (Zoöl.), a minute mite (Phytopius oleivorus) which, by puncturing the rind, causes the rust-colored patches on oranges. 

RUSTFUL:  Full of rust; resembling rust; causing rust; rusty. "Rustful sloth." Quarles. 

RUSTICAL:  Rustic. "Rustical society." Thackeray.  -- Rus"tic*al*ly, adv.  -- Rus"tic*al*ness, n. 

RUSTICATE:  To go into or reside in the country; to ruralize. Pope. 

RUSTICATE:  To require or compel to reside in the country; to banish or send away temporarily; to impose rustication on. The town is again beginning to be full, and the rusticated beauty sees an end of her banishment. Idler. 

RUSTICATED:  resembling rustic work. See Rustic work (a), under Rustic. 

RUSTICATION:  Rustic work. 

RUSTICITY:  The quality or state of being rustic; rustic manners; rudeness; simplicity; artlessness. The sweetness and rusticity of a pastoral can not be so well expressed in any other tongue as in the Greek, when rightly mixed and qualified with the Doric dialect. Addison. The Saxons were refined from their rusticity. Sir W. Scott. 

RUSTICLY:  In a rustic manner; rustically. Chapman. 

RUSTILY:  In a rusty state. 

RUSTINESS:  The quality or state of being rusty. 

RUSTLE:  To cause to rustle; as, the wind rustles the leaves. 

RUSTLE:  A quick succession or confusion of small sounds, like those made by shaking leaves or straw, by rubbing silk, or the like; a rustling. When the noise of a torrent, the rustle of a wood, the song of birds, or the play of lambs, had power to fill the attention, and suspend all perception of the course of time. Idler. 

RUSTLESS:  Free from rust. 

RUSTY:  Resembling, or covered with a substance resembling, rust; affected with rust; rubiginous. 

RUT:  Sexual desire or oestrus of deer, cattle, and various other mammals; heat; also, the period during which the oestrus exists.  2. Roaring, as of waves breaking upon the shore; rote. See Rote. 

RUT:  To have a strong sexual impulse at the reproductive period; -- said of deer, cattle, etc. 

RUT:  To cover in copulation. Dryden. 

RUT:  A track worn by a wheel or by habitual passage of anything; a groove in which anything runs. Also used figuratively. in a rut. 

RUT:  To make a rut or ruts in; -- chiefly used as a past participle or a participial adj; as, a rutted road.  RUTA-BAGA Ru`ta-ba"ga, n. (Bot.)  A kind of turnip commonly with a large and long or ovoid yellowish root; a Swedish turnip. See Turnip. 

RUTACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to plants of a natural order (Rutacæ) of which the rue is the type, and which includes also the orange, lemon, dittany, and buchu. 

RUTATE:  A salt of rutic acid. 

RUTHENIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with ruthenious compounds. 

RUTHENIOUS:  Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; designating those compounds in which it has a lower valence as contrasted with ruthenic compounds. 

RUTHENIUM:  A rare element of the light platinum group, found associated with platinum ores, and isolated as a hard, brittle steel-gray metal which is very infusible. Symbol Ru. Atomic weight 103.5. Specific gravity 12.26. See Platinum metals, under Platinum. 

RUTHFUL:  Full of ruth; as: (a) Pitiful; tender. (b) Full of sorrow; woeful. (c) Causing sorrow. Shak.  -- Ruth"ful*ly, adv. 

RUTHLESS:  Having no ruth; cruel; pitiless. Their rage the hostile bands restrain, All but the ruthless monarch of the main. Pope. -- Ruth"less*ly, adv.  -- Ruth"less*ness, n. 

RUTIC:  pertaining to, or obtained from, rue (Ruta); as, rutic acid, now commonly called capric acid. 

RUTILANT:  Having a reddish glow; shining. Parchments . . . colored with this rutilant mixture. Evelin. 

RUTILATE:  To shine; to emit rays of light. [Obs.] Ure. 

RUTILE:  A mineral usually of a reddish brown color, and brilliant metallic adamantine luster, occurring in tetragonal crystals. In composition it is titanium dioxide, like octahedrite and brooklite. 

RUTILIAN:  Any species of lamellicorn beetles belonging to Rurila and allied genera, as the spotted grapevine beetle (Pelidnota punctata). 

RUTIN:  A glucoside resembling, but distinct from, quercitrin. Rutin is found in the leaves of the rue (Ruta graveolens) and other plants, and obtained as a bitter yellow crystalline substance which yields quercitin on decomposition. 

RUTINOSE:  A disaccharide present in glycosides. Prepared from rutin by hydrolysis with rhamnodiastase. 6-O-a-L-rhamnosyl-D-glucose; C12H22O10. 

RUTTER:  A horseman or trooper. [Obs.] Such a regiment of rutters Never defied men braver. Beau. & Fl. 

RUTTER:  That which ruts. 

RUTTERKIN:  An old crafty fox or beguiler -- a word of contempt. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

RUTTIER:  A chart of a course, esp. at sea. [Obs.] 

RUTTISH:  Inclined to rut; lustful; libidinous; salacious. Shak.  -- Rut"tish*ness, n. 

RUTTLE:  A rattling sound in the throat arising from difficulty of breathing; a rattle. [Obs.] 

RUTTY:  Ruttish; lustful. 

RUTTY:  Full of ruts; as a rutty road. 

RUTTY:  Rooty. [Obs.] Spenser. 

RUTYLENE:  A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H18, of the acetylene series. It is produced artificially. 

RYAL:  Royal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RYAL:  See Rial, and old English coin. 

RYDER:  A gold coin of Zealand [Netherlands] equal to 14 florins, about $ 5.60. 

RYE:  A grain yielded by a hardy cereal grass (Secale cereale), closely allied to wheat; also, the plant itself. Rye constitutes a large portion of the breadstuff used by man.  2. A disease in a hawk. Ainsworth. Rye grass, Italian rye grass, (Bot.) See under Grass. See also Ray grass, and Darnel.  -- Wild rye (Bot.), any plant of the genus Elymus, tall grasses with much the appearance of rye. 

RYND:  A piece of iron crossing the hole in the upper millstone by which the stone is supported on the spindle. 

RYOT:  A peasant or cultivator of the soil. [India] The Indian ryot and the Egyptian fellah work for less pay than any other laborers in the world. The Nation. 

RYPOPHAGOUS:  Eating, or subsisting on, filth. 

RYS:  A branch. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RYSH:  Rush, a plant. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

RYSIMETER:  See Rhysimeter. 

RYTH:  A ford. [Obs.] 

RYTINA:  A genus of large edentulous sirenians, allied to the dugong and manatee, including but one species (R. Stelleri); -- called also Steller's sea cow. [Written also Rhytina.]  Note: * It is now extinct, but was formerly abundant at Behring's Island, near Behring's Straits. It was twenty-five feet or more in length, with a thick, blackish, naked skin. The last were killed in 1768 for their oil and flesh. 

S:  the nineteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a consonanat, and is often called a sibilant, in allusion to its hissing sound. It has two principal sounds; one a more hissing, as in sack, this; the other a vocal hissing (the same as that of z), as in is, wise. Besides these it sometimes has the sounds of sh and zh, as in sure, measure. It generally has its hissing sound at the beginning of words, but in the middle and at the end of words its sound is determined by usage. In a few words it is silent, as in isle, débris. With the letter h it forms the digraph sh. See Guide to pronunciation, t\'c5 255-261.  Note: Both the form and the name of the letter S are derived from the Latin, which got the letter through the Greek from the Phænician. the ultimate origin is Egyptian. S is etymologically most nearly related to c, z, t, and r; as, in ice, OE. is; E. hence, OE. hennes; E. rase, raze; erase, razor; that, G. das; E. reason, F. raison, L. ratio; E. was, were; chair, chaise (see C, Z, T, and R.).  -S -s.  1. Etym: [OE. es, AS. as.]  The suffix used to form the plural of most words; as in roads, elfs, sides, accounts.  2. Etym: [OE. -s, for older -th, AS. -th.]  The suffix used to form the third person singular indicative of English verbs; as in the falls, tells, sends.  3. An adverbial suffix; as in towards, needs, always, -- originally the genitive, possesive, ending. See -'s.  -'S -'s Etym: [OE. -es, AS. -es.]  The suffix used to form the possessive singular of nouns; as, boy's; man's.  'S 's.  A contraction for is or (colloquially) for has. "My heart's subdued." Shak.  -'S -'s [OE. -es, AS. -es.]  The suffix used to form the possessive singular of nouns; as, boy's; man's. 

SAADH:  See Sadh. 

SAAN:  Same as Bushmen. 

SABADILLA:  A Mexican liliaceous plant (Schænocaulon officinale); also, its seeds, which contain the alkaloid veratrine. It was formerly used in medicine as an emetic and purgative. 

SABAEAN:  Same as Sabianism. 

SABAEANISM:  Same as Sabianism.  SABAEISM; SABAISM Sa"bæ*ism, Sa"ba*ism, n.  See Sabianism. 

SABAL:  A genus of palm trees including the palmetto of the Southern United States. 

SABBAT:  In mediæval demonology, the nocturnal assembly in which demons and sorcerers were thought to celebrate their orgies. 

SABBATARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Sabbath, or the tenets of Sabbatarians. 

SABBATARIANISM:  The tenets of Sabbatarians. Bp. Ward. (1673). 

SABBATHLESS:  Without Sabbath, or intermission of labor; hence, without respite or rest. Bacon.  SABBATIC; SABBATICAL Sab*bat"ic, Sab*bat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. sabbatique.]  Of or pertaining to the Sabbath; resembling the Sabbath; enjoying or bringing an intermission of labor. Sabbatical year (Jewish Antiq.), every seventh year, in which the Israelites were commanded to suffer their fields and vineyards to rest, or lie without tillage. 

SABBATISM:  Intermission of labor, as upon the Sabbath; rest. Dr. H. More. 

SABBATON:  A round-toed, armed covering for the feet, worn during a part of the sixteenth century in both military and civil dress. 

SABEAN:  Same as Sabian. 

SABEISM:  Same as Sabianism. 

SABELLA:  A genus of tubiculous annelids having a circle of plumose gills around head. 

SABELLIAN:  Pertaining to the doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n. 

SABELLIAN:  A follower of Sabellius, a presbyter of Ptolemais in the third century, who maintained that there is but one person in the Godhead, and that the Son and Holy Spirit are only different powers, operations, or offices of the one God the Father. 

SABELLIANISM:  The doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n. 

SABELLOID:  Like, or related to, the genus Sabella.  -- Sa*bel"loid, n.  SABER; SABRE Sa"ber, Sa"bre, n. Etym: [F. sabre, G. säbel; of uncertain origin; cf. Hung. száblya, Pol. szabla, Russ. sabla, and L. Gr.  A sword with a broad and heavy blade, thick at the back, and usually more or less curved like a scimiter; a cavalry sword. Saber fish, or Sabre fish (Zoöl.), the cutlass fish.  SABER; SABRE Sa"ber, Sa"bre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sabered or Sabred (; p. pr. & vb. n. Sabering or Sabring (.] Etym: [Cf. F. sabrer.]  To strike, cut, or kill with a saber; to cut down, as with a saber. You send troops to saber and bayonet us into submission. Burke.  SABERBILL; SABREBILL Sa"ber*bill`, Sa"bre*bill`, n. (Zoöl.)  The curlew. 

SABIAN:  An adherent of the Sabian religion; a worshiper of the heavenly bodies. [Written also Sabæan, and Sabean.] 

SABIANISM:  The doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry. [Written also Sabæanism.] 

SABICU:  The very hard wood of a leguminous West Indian tree (Lysilona Sabicu), valued for shipbuilding. 

SABINE:  Of or pertaining to the ancient Sabines, a people of Italy.  -- n.  One of the Sabine people. 

SABINE:  See Savin. 

SABLE:  A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela zibellina) native of the northern latitudes of Europe, Asia, and America, -- noted for its fine, soft, and valuable fur.  Note: The sable resembles the marten, but has a longer head and ears. Its fur consists of a soft under wool, with a dense coat of hair, overtopped by another still longer. It varies greatly in color and quality according to the locality and the season of the year. The darkest and most valuable furs are taken in autumn and winter in the colder parts of Siberia, Russia, and British North America.  Note: The American sable, or marten, was formerly considered a distinct species (Mustela Americana), but it differs very little from the Asiatic sable, and is now considered only a geographical variety.  2. The fur of the sable.  3. A mouring garment; a funeral robe; -- generally in the plural. "Sables wove by destiny." Young.  4. (Her.)  The tincture black; -- represented by vertical and horizontal lines each other. 

SABLE:  Of the color of the sable's fur; dark; black; -- used chiefly in poetry. Night, sable goddess! from her ebon throne, In rayless majesty, now stretches forth Her leaden scepter o'er a slumbering world. Young. Sable antelope (Zoöl.), a large South African antelope (Hippotragus niger). Both sexes have long, sharp horns. The adult male is black; the female is dark chestnut above, white beneath.  -- Sable iron, a superior quality of Russia iron; -- so called because originally stamped with the figure of a sable.  -- Sable mouse (Zoöl.), the lemming. 

SABLE:  To render sable or dark; to drape darkly or in black. Sabled all in black the shady sky. G. Fletcher. 

SABOT:  A thick, circular disk of wood, to which the cartridge bag and projectile are attached, in fixed ammunition for cannon; also, a piece of soft metal attached to a projectile to take the groove of the rifling. 

SABOTIERE:  A kind of freezer for ices. 

SABRE:  See Saber. 

SABRETASCHE:  A leather case or pocket worn by cavalry at the left side, suspended from the sword belt. Campbell (Dict. Mil. Sci. ).  SABRINA WORK Sa*bri"na work`.  A variety of appliqué work for quilts, table covers, etc. Caulfeild & S. (Dict. of Needlework). 

SABULOSE:  Growing in sandy places. 

SABULOSITY:  The quality of being sabulous; sandiness; grittiness. 

SABULOUS:  Sandy; gritty. 

SAC:  See Sace. 

SAC:  The privilege formerly enjoyed the lord of a manor, of holding courts, trying causes, and imposing fines. Cowell. 

SAC:  A cavity, bag, or receptacle, usually containing fluid, and either closed, or opening into another cavity to the exterior; a sack. 

SACALAIT:  A kind of fresh-water bass; the crappie. [Southern U.S.] 

SACAR:  See Saker. 

SACCADE:  A sudden, violent check of a horse by drawing or twitching the reins on a sudden and with one pull. 

SACCATE:  Having the form of a sack or pouch; furnished with a sack or pouch, as a petal.  2. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Saccata, a suborder of ctenophores having two pouches into which the long tentacles can be retracted. 

SACCHARIC:  Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, saccharine substances; specifically, designating an acid obtained, as a white amorphous gummy mass, by the oxidation of mannite, glucose, sucrose, etc. 

SACCHARIFEROUS:  Producing sugar; as, sacchariferous canes. 

SACCHARIFY:  Toconvert into, or to impregnate with, sugar. 

SACCHARILLA:  A kind of muslin. 

SACCHARIMETER:  An instrument for ascertain the quantity of saccharine matter in any solution, as the juice of a plant, or brewers' and distillers' worts. [Written also saccharometer.]  Note: The common saccharimeter of the brewer is an hydrometer adapted by its scale to point out the proportion of saccharine matter in a solution of any specific gravity. The polarizing saccharimeter of the chemist is a complex optical apparatus, in which polarized light is transmitted through the saccharine solution, and the proportion of sugar indicated by the relative deviation of the plane of polarization. 

SACCHARIMETRICAL:  Of or pertaining to saccharimetry; obtained saccharimetry. 

SACCHARIMETRY:  The act, process or method of determining the amount and kind of sugar present in sirup, molasses, and the like, especially by the employment of polarizing apparatus. 

SACCHARIN:  A bitter white crystalline substance obtained from the saccharinates and regarded as the lactone of saccharinic acid; -- so called because formerly supposed to be isomeric with cane sugar (saccharose). 

SACCHARINE:  Of or pertaining to sugar; having the qualities of sugar; producing sugar; sweet; as, a saccharine taste; saccharine matter. 

SACCHARINE:  A trade name for benzoic sulphinide. [Written also saccharin.] C7H5NO3S. 

SACCHARINIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharin; specifically, designating a complex acid not known in the free state but well known in its salts, which are obtained by boiling dextrose and levulose (invert sugar) with milk of lime. 

SACCHARIZE:  To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.  SACCHAROID; SACCHAROIDAL Sac"cha*roid, Sac`cha*roid"al, a. Etym: [L. saccharon sugar + -oid: cf. F. saccharoïde.]  resembling sugar, as in taste, appearance, consistency, or composition; as, saccharoidal limestone. 

SACCHAROMETER:  A saccharimeter. 

SACCHAROMYCES:  A genus of budding fungi, the various species of which have the power, to a greater or less extent, or splitting up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid. They are the active agents in producing fermentation of wine, beer, etc. Saccharomyces cerevisiæ is the yeast of sedimentary beer. Also called Torula. 

SACCHAROMYCETES:  A family of fungi consisting of the one genus Saccharomyces. 

SACCHARONATE:  A salt of saccharonic acid. 

SACCHARONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharone; specifically, designating an unstable acid which is obtained from saccharone (a) by hydration, and forms a well-known series of salts. 

SACCHAROSE:  Cane sugar; sucrose; also, in general, any one of the group of which saccharose, or sucrose proper, is the type. See Sucrose. 

SACCHAROUS:  Saccharine. 

SACCHARUM:  A genus of tall tropical grasses including the sugar cane. 

SACCHOLACTATE:  A salt of saccholactactic acid; -- formerly called also saccholate. [Obs.] See Mucate. 

SACCHOLACTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called mucic acid; saccholic. [Obs.] 

SACCHOLIC:  Saccholatic. [Obs.] 

SACCHULMATE:  A salt of sacchulmic acid. 

SACCHULMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a dark amorphous substance by the long-continued boiling of sucrose with very dilute sulphuric acid. It resembles humic acid. [Written also sacculmic.] 

SACCHULMIN:  An amorphous huminlike substance resembling sacchulmic acid, and produced together with it. 

SACCIFEROUS:  Bearing a sac. 

SACCIFORM:  Having the general form of a sac. 

SACCOGLOSSA:  Same as Pellibranchiata. 

SACCULAR:  Like a sac; sacciform. 

SACCULATED:  Furnished with little sacs. 

SACCULE:  A little sac; specifically, the sacculus of the ear.  SACCULO-COCHLEAR Sac`cu*lo-coch"le*ar, a. (Anat.)  pertaining to the sacculus and cochlea of the ear.  SACCULO-UTRICULAR Sac`cu*lo-u*tric"u*lar, a. (Anat.)  Pertaining to the sacculus and utriculus of the ear. 

SACCULUS:  A little sac; esp., a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear. See the Note under Ear. 

SACCUS:  A sac. 

SACERDOTAL:  Of or pertaining to priests, or to the order of priests; relating to the priesthood; priesty; as, sacerdotal dignity; sacerdotal functions. The ascendency of the sacerdotal order was long the ascendency which naturally and properly belongs to intellectual superiority. Macaulay. 

SACERDOTALISM:  The system, style, spirit, or character, of a priesthood, or sacerdotal order; devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order. 

SACERDOTALLY:  In a sacerdotal manner. 

SACHEL:  A small bag. See Satchel. 

SACHEM:  A chief of a tribe of the American Indians; a sagamore. 

SACHEMDOM:  The government or jurisdiction of a sachem. Dr. T. Dwight. 

SACHEMSHIP:  Office or condition of a sachem. 

SACHET:  A scent bag, or perfume cushion, to be laid among handkerchiefe, garments, etc., to perfume them. 

SACIETY:  Satiety. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SACK:  A anme formerly given to various dry Spanish wines. "Sherris sack." Shak. Sack posset, a posset made of sack, and some other ingredients. 

SACK:  Originally, a loosely hanging garnment for women, worn like a cloak about the shoulders, and serving as a decorative appendage to the gown; now, an outer garment with sleeves, worn by women; as, a dressing saek. [Written also sacque.]  4. A sack coat; a kind of coat worn by men, and extending from top to bottom without a cross seam.  5. (Biol.)  See 2d Sac, 2. Sack bearer (Zoöl.). See Basket worm, under Basket.  -- Sack tree (Bot.), an East Indian tree (Antiaris saccidora) which is cut into lengths, and made into sacks by turning the bark inside out, and leaving a slice of the wood for a bottom.  -- To give the sack to or get the sack, to discharge, or be discharged, from employment; to jilt, or be jilted. [Slang] 

SACK:  the pillage or plunder, as of a town or city; the storm and plunder of a town; devastation; ravage. The town was stormed, and delivered up to sack, -- by which phrase is to be understood the perpetration of all those outrages which the ruthless code of war allowed, in that age, on the persons and property of the defenseless inhabitants, without regard to sex or age. Prescott. 

SACK:  To plunder or pillage, as a town or city; to devastate; to ravage. The Romans lay under the apprehension of seeing their city sacked by a barbarous enemy. Addison. 

SACKAGE:  The act of taking by storm and pillaging; sack. [R.] H. Roscoe. 

SACKBUT:  A brass wind instrument, like a bass trumpet, so contrived that it can be lengthened or shortened according to the tone required; -- said to be the same as the trombone. [Written also sagbut.] Moore (Encyc. of Music).  Note: The sackbut of the Scriptures is supposed to have been a stringed instrument. 

SACKCLOTH:  Linen or cotton cloth such a sacks are made of; coarse cloth; anciently, a cloth or garment worn in mourning, distress, mortification, or penitence. Gird you with sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. 2 Sam. iii. 31. Thus with sackcloth I invest my woe. Sandys. 

SACKCLOTHED:  Clothed in sackcloth. 

SACKER:  One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of a town. 

SACKFUL:  As much as a sack will hold. 

SACKFUL:  Bent on plunder. [Obs.] Chapman. 

SACKING:  Stout, coarse cloth of which sacks, bags, etc., are made. 

SACKLESS:  Quiet; peaceable; harmless; innocent. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]  SACK-WINGED Sack"-winged`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having a peculiar pouch developed near the front edge of the wing; -- said of certain bats of the genus Saccopteryx. 

SACQUE:  Same as 2d Sack, 3. 

SACRAL:  Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum. 

SACRAMENT:  One of the solemn religious ordinances enjoined by Christ, the head of the Christian church, to be observed by his followers; hence, specifically, the eucharist; the Lord's Supper.  Syn.  -- Sacrament, Eucharist.  -- Protestants apply the term sacrament to baptism and the Lord's Supper, especially the latter. The R. Cath. and Greek churches have five other sacraments, viz., confirmation, penance, holy orders, matrimony, and extreme unction. As sacrament denotes an oath or vow, the word has been applied by way of emphasis to the Lord's Supper, where the most sacred vows are renewed by the Christian in commemorating the death of his Redeemer. Eucharist denotes the giving of thanks; and this term also has been applied to the same ordinance, as expressing the grateful remembrance of Christ's sufferings and death. "Some receive the sacrament as a means to procure great graces and blessings; others as an eucharist and an office of thanksgiving for what they have received." Jer. Taylor. 

SACRAMENT:  To bind by an oath. [Obs.] Laud. 

SACRAMENTAL:  That which relates to a sacrament. Bp. Morton. 

SACRAMENTALISM:  The doctrine and use of sacraments; attashment of excessive importance to sacraments. 

SACRAMENTALIST:  One who holds the doctrine of the real objective presence of Christ;s body and blood in the holy eucharist. Shipley. 

SACRAMENTALLY:  In a sacrament manner. 

SACRAMENTARIAN:  A name given in the sixteenth century to those German reformers who rejected both the Roman and the Lutheran doctrine of the holy eucharist.  2. One who holds extreme opinions regarding the efficacy of sacraments. 

SACRAMENTIZE:  To administer the sacraments. [R.] Both to preach and sacramentize. Fuller. 

SACRATE:  To consecrate. [Obs.] 

SACRATION:  Consecration. [Obs.] 

SACRE:  See Sakker. 

SACRE:  To consecrate; to make sacred. [Obs.] Holland. 

SACRED:  Employed in sacrifice. [R.] Johnson. 

SACRIFICABLE:  Capable of being offered in sacrifice. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

SACRIFICANT:  One who offers a sacrifice. [R.] 

SACRIFICATOR:  A sacrificer; one who offers a sacrifice. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

SACRIFICATORY:  Offering sacrifice. [R.] Sherwood. 

SACRIFICE:  To make offerings to God, or to a deity, of things consumed on the altar; to offer sacrifice. O teacher, some great mischief hath befallen To that meek man, who well had sacrificed. Milton. 

SACRIFICER:  One who sacrifices. 

SACRIFICIAL:  Of or pertaining to sacrifice or sacrifices; consisting in sacrifice; performing sacrifice. "Sacrificial rites." Jer. Taylor. 

SACRILEGE:  The sin or crime of violating or profaning sacred things; the alienating to laymen, or to common purposes, what has been appropriated or consecrated to religious persons or uses. And the hid treasures in her sacred tomb With sacrilege to dig. Spenser. Families raised upon the ruins of churches, and enriched with the spoils of sacrilege. South. 

SACRILEGIOUS:  Violating sacred things; polluted with sacrilege; involving sacrilege; profane; impious. Above the reach of sacrilegious hands. pope. -- Sac`ri*le"gious*ly, adv.  -- Sac`ri*le"gious*ness, n. 

SACRILEGIST:  One guilty of sacrilege. 

SACRING:  a. & n. from Sacre. Sacring bell. See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus. 

SACRIST:  A sacristan; also, a person retained in a cathedral to copy out music for the choir, and take care of the books. 

SACRISTAN:  An officer of the church who has the care of the utensils or movables, and of the church in general; a sexton. 

SACRISTY:  A apartment in a church where the sacred utensils, vestments, etc., are kept; a vestry.  SACRO- Sa"cro- (. (Anat.)  A combining form denoting connection with, or relation to, the sacrum, as in sacro-coccyageal, sacro-iliac, sacrosciatic. 

SACROSANCT:  Sacred; inviolable. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

SACROSCIATIC:  Of or pertaining to both the sacrum and the hip; as, the sacrosciatic formina formed by the sacrosciatic ligaments which connect the sacrum and hip bone. 

SACROVERTEBRAL:  Of or pertaining to the sacrum and that part of the vertebral column immediately anterior to it; as, the sacrovertebral angle. 

SACRUM:  That part of the vertebral column which is directly connected with, or forms a part of, the pelvis.  Note: It may consist of a single vertebra or of several more or less consolidated. In man it forms the dorsal, or posterior, wall of the pelvis, and consists of five united vertebræ, which diminish in size very rapidly to the posterior extremity, which bears the coccyx. 

SACS:  A tribe of Indians, which, together with the Foxes, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin. [Written also Sauks.] 

SAD:  To make sorrowful; to sadden. [Obs.] How it sadded the minister's spirits! H. Peters. 

SADDA:  A work in the Persian tongue, being a summary of the Zend- Avesta, or sacred books. 

SADDEN:  To make sad. Specifically: (a) To render heavy or cohesive. [Obs.] Marl is binding, and saddening of land is the great prejudice it doth to clay lands. Mortimer.  (b) To make dull- or sad-colored, as cloth. (c) To make grave or serious; to make melancholy or sorrowful. Her gloomy presence saddens all the scene. Pope. 

SADDEN:  To become, or be made, sad. Tennyson. 

SADDER:  Same as Sadda. 

SADDLE:  A block of wood, usually fastened to some spar, and shaped to receive the end of another spar.  5. (Mach.)  A part, as a flange, which is hollowed out to fit upon a convex surface and serve as a means of attachment or support.  6. (Zoöl.)  The clitellus of an earthworm.  7. (Arch.)  The threshold of a door, when a separate piece from the floor or landing; -- so called because it spans and covers the joint between two floors. Saddle bar (Arch.), one the small iron bars to which the lead panels of a glazed window are secured. Oxf. Gloss.  -- Saddle gall (Far.), a sore or gall upon a horse's back, made by the saddle.  -- Saddle girth, a band passing round the body of a horse to hold the saddle in its place.  -- saddle horse, a horse suitable or trained for riding with a saddle.  -- Saddle joint, in sheet-metal roofing, a joint formed by bending up the edge of a sheet and folding it downward over the turned-up edge of the next sheet.  -- Saddle roof (Arch.), a roof having two gables and one ridge; -- said of such a roof when used in places where a different form is more common; as, a tower surmounted by a saddle roof. Called also saddleback roof.  -- Saddle shell (Zoöl.), any thin plicated bivalve shaell of the genera Placuna and Anomia; -- so called from its shape. Called also saddle oyster. 

SADDLEBACK:  Same as Saddle-backed. Saddleback roof. (Arch.) See Saddle roof, under Saddle. 

SADDLEBAGS:  Bags, usually of leather, united by straps or a band, formerly much used by horseback riders to carry small articles, one bag hanging on each side. 

SADDLEBOW:  The bow or arch in the front part of a saddle, or the pieces which form the front. 

SADDLECLOTH:  A cloth under a saddle, and extending out behind; a housing. 

SADDLED:  Having a broad patch of color across the back, like a saddle; saddle-backed. 

SADDLER:  One who makes saddles.  2. (Zoöl.)  A harp seal. 

SADDLERY:  Shaped like a saddle. Specifically: (a) (Bot.) Bent down at the sides so as to give the upper part a rounded form. Henslow. (b) (Geol.) Bent on each side of a mountain or ridge, without being broken at top; -- said of strata. 

SADDLETREE:  The frame of a saddle. For saddletree scarce reached had he, His journey to begin. Cowper. 

SADDUCAIC:  Pertaining to, or like, the Sadducees; as, Sadducaic reasonings. 

SADDUCEE:  One of a sect among the ancient Jews, who denied the resurrection, a future state, and the existence of angels.  -- Sad`du*ce"an, a.  SADDUCEEISM; SADDUCISM Sad"du*cee`ism, Sad"du*cism, n.  The tenets of the Sadducees. 

SADDUCIZE:  To adopt the principles of the Sadducees. Atterbury. 

SADH:  A member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos. Sadhs resemble the Quakers in many respects. Balfour (cyc. of India). 

SADIRON:  An iron for smoothing clothes; a flatiron. 

SADR:  A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus); -- so called by the Arabs of Barbary, who use its berries for food. See Lotus (b). 

SAENGERBUND:  A singers' union; an association of singers or singing clubs, esp. German. 

SAENGERFEST:  A festival of singers; a German singing festival. 

SAFE:  A place for keeping things in safety. Specifically: (a) A strong and fireproof receptacle (as a movable chest of steel, etc., or a closet or vault of brickwork) for money, valuable papers, or the like. (b) A ventilated or refrigerated chest or closet for securing provisions from noxious animals or insects. 

SAFE:  To render safe; to make right. [Obs.] Shak.  SAFE-CONDUCT Safe"-con"duct, n. Etym: [Safe + conduct: cf. F. sauf-conduit.]  That which gives a safe, passage; either (a) a convoy or guard to protect a person in an enemy's country or a foreign country, or (b) a writing, pass, or warrant of security, given to a person to enable him to travel with safety. Shak.  SAFE-CONDUCT Safe`-con*duct", v. t.  To conduct safely; to give safe-conduct to. [POetic] He him by all the bonds of love besought To safe-conduct his love. Spenser. 

SAFEGUARD:  To guard; to protect. Shak.  SAFE-KEEPING Safe"-keep"ing, n. Etym: [Safe + keep.]  The act of keeping or preserving in safety from injury or from escape; care; custody. 

SAFELY:  In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences. 

SAFENESS:  The quality or state of being safe; freedom from hazard, danger, harm, or loss; safety; security; as the safeness of an experiment, of a journey, or of a possession.  SAFE-PLEDGE Safe"-pledge", n. (Law)  A surety for the appearance of a person at a given time. Bracton. 

SAFETY:  Same as Safety touchdown, below. Safety arch (Arch.), a discharging arch. See under Discharge, v. t.  -- Safety belt, a belt made of some buoyant material, or which is capable of being inflated, so as to enable a person to float in water; a life preserver.  -- Safety buoy, a buoy to enable a person to float in water; a safety belt.  -- Safety cage (Mach.), a cage for an elevator or mine lift, having appliances to prevent it from dropping if the lifting rope should break.  -- Safety lamp. (Mining) See under Lamp.  -- Safety match, a match which can be ignited only on a surface specially prepared for the purpose.  -- Safety pin, a pin made in the form of a clasp, with a guard covering its point so that it will not prick the wearer.  -- safety plug. See Fusible plug, under Fusible.  -- Safety switch. See Switch.  -- Safety touchdown (Football), the act or result of a player's touching to the ground behind his own goal line a ball which received its last impulse from a man on his own side; -- distinguished from touchback. See Touchdown.  -- Safety tube (Chem.), a tube to prevent explosion, or to control delivery of gases by an automatic valvular connection with the outer air; especially, a bent funnel tube with bulbs for adding those reagents which produce unpleasant fumes or violent effervescence.  -- Safety valve, a valve which is held shut by a spring or weight and opens automatically to permit the escape of steam, or confined gas, water, etc., from a boiler, or other vessel, when the pressure becomes too great for safety; also, sometimes, a similar valve opening inward to admit air to a vessel in which the pressure is less than that of the atmosphere, to prevent collapse.  SAFETY BICYCLE Safety bicycle.  A bicycle with equal or nearly equal wheels, usually 28 inches diameter, driven by pedals connected to the rear (driving) wheel by a multiplying gear.  SAFETY CHAIN Safety chain.  (a) (Railroads) A normally slack chain for preventing excessive movement between a truck and a car body in sluing.  (b) An auxiliary watch chain, secured to the clothes, usually out of sight, to prevent stealing of the watch.  (c) A chain of sheet metal links with an elongated hole through each broad end, made up by doubling the first link on itself, slipping the next link through and doubling, and so on. 

SAFFLOW:  The safflower. [Obs.] 

SAFFLOWER:  An annual composite plant (Carthamus tinctorius), the flowers of which are used as a dyestuff and in making rouge; bastard, or false, saffron.  2. The died flowers of the Carthamus tinctorius.  3. A dyestuff from these flowers. See Safranin (b). Oil of safflower, a purgative oil expressed from the seeds of the safflower. 

SAFFRON:  A bulbous iridaceous plant (Crocus sativus) having blue flowers with large yellow stigmas. See Crocus.  2. The aromatic, pungent, dried stigmas, usually with part of the stile, of the Crocus sativus. Saffron is used in cookery, and in coloring confectionery, liquors, varnishes, etc., and was formerly much used in medicine.  3. An orange or deep yellow color, like that of the stigmas of the Crocus sativus. Bastard saffron, Dyer's saffron. (Bot.) See Safflower.  -- Meadow saffron (Bot.), a bulbous plant (Colchichum autumnate) of Europe, resembling saffron.  -- Saffron wood (Bot.), the yellowish wood of a South African tree (Elæodendron croceum); also, the tree itself.  -- Saffron yellow, a shade of yellow like that obtained from the stigmas of the true saffron (Crocus sativus). 

SAFFRON:  Having the color of the stigmas of saffron flowers; deep orange-yellow; as, a saffron face; a saffron streamer. 

SAFFRON:  To give color and flavor to, as by means of saffron; to spice. [Obs.] And in Latyn I speak a wordes few, To saffron with my predication. Chaucer. 

SAFFRONY:  Having a color somewhat like saffron; yellowish. Lord (1630). 

SAFRANINE:  An orange-red nitrogenous dyestuff produced artificailly by oxidizing certain aniline derivatives, and used in dyeing silk and wool; also, any one of the series of which safranine proper is the type. 

SAG:  To cause to bend or give way; to load. 

SAG:  State of sinking or bending; sagging. 

SAGA:  A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time. And then the blue-eyed Norseman told A saga of the days of old. Longfellow. 

SAGACITY:  The quality of being sagacious; quickness or acuteness of sense perceptions; keenness of discernment or penetration with soundness of judgment; shrewdness. Some [brutes] show that nice sagacity of smell. Cowper. Natural sagacity improved by generous education. V. Knox.  Syn.  -- Penetration; shrewdness; judiciousness.  -- Sagacity, Penetration. Penetration enables us to enter into the depths of an abstruse subject, to detect motives, plans, etc. Sagacity adds to penetration a keen, practical judgment, which enables one to guard against the designs of others, and to turn everything to the best possible advantage. 

SAGAMORE:  The head of a tribe among the American Indians; a chief; -- generally used as synonymous with sachem, but some writters distinguished between them, making the sachem a chief of the first rank, and a sagamore one of the second rank. "Be it sagamore, sachem, or powwow." Longfellow.  2. A juice used in medicine. [Obs.] Johnson. 

SAGAPEN:  Sagapenum. 

SAGAPENUM:  A fetid gum resin obtained from a species of Ferula. It has been used in hysteria, etc., but is now seldom met with. U. S. Disp. 

SAGATHY:  A mixed woven fabric of silk and cotton; or silk and wool; sayette; also, a light woolen fabric. 

SAGE:  A wise man; a man of gravity and wisdom; especially, a man venerable for years, and of sound judgment and prudence; a grave philosopher. At his birth a star, Unseen before in heaven, proclaims him come, And guides the Eastern sages. Milton. 

SAGEBRUSH:  A low irregular shrub (Artemisia tridentata), of the order Compositæ, covering vast tracts of the dry alkaline regions of the American plains; -- called also sagebush, and wild sage.  SAGEBRUSH STATE Sagebrush State.  Nevada; -- a nickname. 

SAGELY:  In a sage manner; wisely. 

SAGENE:  A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet. 

SAGENESS:  The quality or state of being sage; wisdom; sagacity; prudence; gravity. Ascham. 

SAGENITE:  Acicular rutile occurring in reticulated forms imbedded in quartz. 

SAGENITIC:  Resembling sagenite; -- applied to quartz when containing acicular crystals of other minerals, most commonly rutile, also tourmaline, actinolite, and the like. 

SAGGING:  A bending or sinking between the ends of a thing, in consequence of its own, or an imposed, weight; an arching downward in the middle, as of a ship after straining. Cf. Hogging. 

SAGINATE:  To make fat; to pamper. [R.] "Many a saginated boar." Cowper. 

SAGINATION:  The act of fettening or pampering. [R.] Topsell. 

SAGITTA:  A small constellation north of Aquila; the Arrow.  2. (Arch.)  The keystone of an arch. [R.] gwitt.  3. (Geom.)  The distance from a point in a curve to the chord; also, the versed sine of an arc; -- so called from its resemblance to an arrow resting on the bow and string. [Obs.]  4. (Anat.)  The larger of the two otoliths, or ear bones, found in most fishes.  5. (Zoöl.)  A genus of transparent, free-swimming marine worms having lateral and caudal fins, and capable of swimming rapidly. It is the type of the class Chætognatha. 

SAGITTARY:  A centaur; a fabulous being, half man, half horse, armed with a bow and quiver. Shak.  2. The Arsenal in Venice; -- so called from having a figure of an archer over the door. Shak. 

SAGITTARY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, an arrow. Sir T. Browne. 

SAGITTATE:  Shaped like an arrowhead; triangular, with the two basal angles prolonged downward. 

SAGITTATED:  Sagittal; sagittate. 

SAGITTOCYST:  A defensive cell containing a minute rodlike structure which may be expelled. Such cells are found in certain Turbellaria. 

SAGO:  A dry granulated starch imported from the East Indies, much used for making puddings and as an article of diet for the sick; also, as starch, for stiffening textile fabrics. It is prepared from the stems of several East Indian and Malayan palm trees, but chiefly from the Metroxylon Sagu; also from several cycadaceous plants (Cycas revoluta, Zamia integrifolia, atc.). Portland sago, a kind of sago prepared from the corms of the cuckoopint (Arum maculatum).  -- Sago palm. (Bot.) (a) A palm tree which yields sago. (b) A species of Cycas (Cycas revoluta).  -- Sago spleen (Med.), a morbid condition of the spleen, produced by amyloid degeneration of the organ, in which a cross section shows scattered gray translucent bodies looking like grains of sago. 

SAGOIN:  A marmoset; -- called also sagouin. 

SAGUM:  The military cloak of the Roman soldiers. 

SAGUS:  A genus of palms from which sago is obtained. 

SAGY:  Full of sage; seasoned with sage.  SAHIB; SAHEB Sa"hib, sa"heb, n. Etym: [Ar. çahib master, lord, fem. çahibah.]  A respectful title or appelation given to Europeans of rank. [India] 

SAHIBAH:  A lady; mistress. [India] 

SAHIDIC:  Same as Thebaic. 

SAHLITE:  See Salite. 

SAHUI:  A marmoset. 

SAI:  See Capuchin, 3 (a). 

SAIBLING:  A European mountain trout (Salvelinus alpinus); -- called also Bavarian charr. 

SAIC:  A kind of ketch very common in the Levant, which has neither topgallant sail nor mizzen topsail. 

SAID:  imp. & p. p. of Say. 

SAID:  before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style. 

SAIGA:  An antelope (Saiga Tartarica) native of the plains of Siberia and Eastern Russia. The male has erect annulated horns, and tufts of long hair beneath the eyes and ears. 

SAIKYR:  Same as Saker. [Obs.] 

SAILABLE:  Capable of being sailed over; navigable; as, a sailable river. 

SAILBOAT:  A boat propelled by a sail or sails. 

SAILCLOTH:  Duck or canvas used in making sails. 

SAILING:  The art of managing a vessel; seamanship; navigation; as, globular sailing; oblique sailing.  Note: For the several methods of sailing, see under Circular, Globular, Oblique, Parallel, etc. Sailing master (U. S. Navy), formerly, a warrant officer, ranking next below a lieutenant, whose duties were to navigate the vessel; and under the direction of the executive officer, to attend to the stowage of the hold, to the cables, rigging, etc. The grade was merged in that of master in 1862. 

SAILLESS:  Destitute of sails. Pollok. 

SAILMAKER:  One whose occupation is to make or repair sails.  -- Sail"mak`ing, n. 

SAILOR:  One who follows the business of navigating ships or other vessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; one of the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman.  Syn.  -- Mariner; seaman; seafarer. Sailor's choice. (Zoöl.) (a) An excellent marine food fish (Diplodus, or Lagodon, rhomboides) of the Southern United States; -- called also porgy, squirrel fish, yellowtail, and salt-water bream. (b) A species of grunt (Orthopristis, or Pomadasys, chrysopterus), an excellent food fish, common on the southern coasts of the United States; -- called also hogfish, and pigfish. 

SAILY:  Like a sail. [R.] Drayton. 

SAIM:  Lard; grease. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 

SAIMIR:  The squirrel monkey. 

SAIN:  Said. Shak. 

SAIN:  To sanctify; to bless so as to protect from evil influence. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

SAINT:  One canonized by the church. [Abbrev. St.] Saint Andrew's cross (a) A cross shaped like the letter X. See Illust. 4, under Cross. (b) (Bot.) A low North American shrub (Ascyrum Crux-Andræ, the petals of which have the form of a Saint Andrew's cross. Gray.  -- Saint Anthony's cross, a T-shaped cross. See Illust. 6, under Cross.  -- Saint Anthony's fire, the erysipelas; -- popularly so called because it was supposed to have been cured by the intercession of Saint Anthony.  -- Saint Anthony's nut (Bot.), the groundnut (Bunium flexuosum); -- so called because swine feed on it, and St. Anthony was once a swineherd. Dr. Prior.  -- Saint Anthony's turnip (Bot.), the bulbous crowfoot, a favorite food of swine. Dr. Prior.  -- Saint Barnaby's thistle (Bot.), a kind of knapeweed (Centaurea solstitialis) flowering on St. Barnabas's Day, June 11th. Dr. Prior.  -- Saint Bernard (Zoöl.), a breed of large, handsome dogs celebrated for strength and sagacity, formerly bred chiefly at the Hospice of St. Bernard in Switzerland, but now common in Europe and America. There are two races, the smooth-haired and the rough-haired. See Illust. under Dog.  -- Saint Catharine's flower (Bot.), the plant love-a-mist. See under Love.  -- Saint Cuthbert's beads (Paleon.), the fossil joints of crinoid stems.  -- Saint Dabeoc's heath (Bot.), a heatherlike plant (Dabæcia polifolia), named from an Irish saint.  -- Saint Distaff's Day. See under Distaff.  -- Saint Elmo's fire, a luminious, flamelike appearance, sometimes seen in dark, tempestuous nights, at some prominent point on a ship, particularly at the masthead and the yardams. It has also been observed on land, and is due to the discharge of electricity from elevated or pointed objects. A single flame is called a Helena, or a Corposant; a double, or twin, flame is called a Castor and Pollux, or a double Corposant. It takes its name from St. Elmo, the patron saint of sailors.  -- Saint George's cross (Her.), a Greek cross gules upon a field argent, the field being represented by a narrow fimbriation in the ensign, or union jack, of Great Britain.  -- Saint George's ensign, a red cross on a white field with a union jack in the upper corner next the mast. It is the distinguishing badge of ships of the royal navy of England; -- called also the white ensign. Brande & C.  -- Saint George's flag, a smaller flag resembling the ensign, but without the union jack; used as the sign of the presence and command of an admiral. [Eng.] Brande & C.  -- Saint Gobain glass (Chem.), a fine variety of soda-lime plate glass, so called from St.Gobain in France, where it was manufactured.  -- Saint Ignatius's bean (Bot.), the seed of a tree of the Philippines (Strychnos Ignatia), of properties similar to the nux vomica.  -- Saint Jame's shell (Zoöl.), a pecten (Vola Jacobæus) worn by piligrims to the Holy Land. See Illust. under Scallop.  -- Saint Jame's wort (Bot.), a kind of ragwort (Senecio Jacobæa).  -- Saint John's bread. (Bot.) See Carob.  -- Saint John's-wort (Bot.), any plant of the genus Hypericum, most species of which have yellow flowers; -- called also John's-wort.  -- Saint Leger, the name of a race for three-year-old horses run annually in September at Doncaster, England; -- instituted in 1776 by Col. St. Leger.  -- Saint Martin's herb (Bot.), a small tropical American violaceous plant (Sauvagesia erecta). It is very mucilaginous and is used in medicine.  -- Saint Martin's summer, a season of mild, damp weather frequently prevailing during late autumn in England and the Mediterranean countries; -- so called from St. Martin's Festival, occuring on November 11. It corresponds to the Indian summer in America. Shak. Whitier.  -- Saint Patrick's cross. See Illust 4, under Cross.  -- Saint Patrick's Day, the 17th of March, anniversary of the death (about 466) of St. Patrick, the apostle and patron saint of Ireland.  -- Saint Peter's fish. (Zoöl.) See John Dory, under John.  -- Saint Peter's-wort (Bot.), a name of several plants, as Hypericum Ascyron, H. quadrangulum, Ascyrum stans, etc.  -- Saint Peter's wreath (Bot.), a shrubby kind of Spiræa (S. hypericifolia), having long slender branches covered with clusters of small white blossoms in spring.  -- Saint's bell. See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus.  -- Saint Vitus's dance (Med.), chorea; -- so called from the supposed cures wrought on intercession to this saint. 

SAINT:  To make a saint of; to enroll among the saints by an offical act, as of the pope; to canonize; to give the title or reputation of a saint to (some one). A large hospital, erected by a shoemaker who has been beatified, though never sainted. Addison. To saint it, to act as a saint, or with a show of piety. Whether the charmer sinner it or saint it. Shak. 

SAINT:  To act or live as a saint. [R.] Shak. 

SAINTDOM:  The state or character of a saint. [R.] Tennyson. 

SAINTESS:  A female saint. [R.] Bp. Fisher. 

SAINTISH:  Somewhat saintlike; -- used ironically. 

SAINTISM:  The character or quality of saints; also, hypocritical pretense of holiness. Wood. 

SAINTLIKE:  Resembling a saint; suiting a saint; becoming a saint; saintly. Glossed over only with a saintlike show. Dryden. 

SAINTLINESS:  Quality of being saintly. 

SAINTLY:  Like a saint; becoming a holy person. So dear to Heaven is saintly chastity. Milton. 

SAINTOLOGIST:  One who writes the lives of saints. [R.] 

SAINTSHIP:  The character or qualities of a saint.  SAINT-SIMONIAN Saint`-Si*mo"ni*an, n.  A follower of the Count de St. Simon, who died in 1825, and who maintained that the principle of property held in common, and the just division of the fruits of common labor among the members of society, are the true remedy for the social evils which exist. Brande & C.  SAINT-SIMONIANISM Saint`-Si*mo"ni*an*ism, n.  The principles, doctrines, or practice of the Saint-Simonians; -- called also Saint-Simonism.  SAINT-SIMONISM Saint-Si"mon*ism, n.  A system of socialism in which the state owns all the property and the laborer is entitled to share according to the quality and amount of his work, founded by Saint Simon (1760-1825). 

SAITH:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Say. [Archaic] 

SAITHE:  The pollock, or coalfish; -- called also sillock. [Scot.] 

SAIVA:  One of an important religious sect in India which regards Siva with peculiar veneration. 

SAIVISM:  The worship of Siva. 

SAJENE:  Same as Sagene. 

SAJOU:  Same as Sapajou. 

SAKE:  Final cause; end; purpose of obtaining; cause; motive; reason; interest; concern; account; regard or respect; -- used chiefly in such phrases as, for the sake, for his sake, for man's sake, for mercy's sake, and the like; as, to commit crime for the sake of gain; to go abroad for the sake of one's health. Moved with wrath and shame and ladies; sake. Spenser. I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake. Gen. viii. 21. Will he draw out, For anger's sake, finite to infinite Milton. Knowledge is for the sake of man, and not man for the sake of knowledge. Sir W. Hamilton.  Note: The -s of the possessive case preceding sake is sometimes omitted for euphony; as, for goodness sake. "For conscience sake." 1 Cor. x. 28. The plural sakes is often used with a possessive plural. "For both our sakes." Shak. 

SAKER:  A small piece of artillery. Wilhelm. On the bastions were planted culverins and sakers. Macaulay. The culverins and sakers showing their deadly muzzles over the rampart. Hawthorne. 

SAKERET:  The male of the saker (a). 

SAKI:  Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Pithecia. They have large ears, and a long hairy tail which is not prehensile.  Note: The black saki (Pithecia satanas), the white-headed (P.leucocephala), and the red-backed, or hand-drinking, saki (P.chiropotes), are among the best-known. 

SAKI:  The alcoholic drink of Japan. It is made from rice.sake  SAKIEH; SAKIYEH Sak"i*eh, Sak"i*yeh, n. [Ar. saqiah canal, trench.]  A kind of water wheel used in Egypt for raising water, from wells or pits, in buckets attached to its periphery or to an endless rope. 

SAKTI:  The divine energy, personified as the wife of a deity (Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, etc.); the female principle. 

SAL:  An East Indian timber tree (Shorea robusta), much used for building purposes. It is of a light brown color, close-grained, and durable. [Written also saul.] 

SAL:  Salt. Sal absinthii Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), an impure potassium carbonate obtained from the ashes of wormwood (Artemisia Absinthium).  -- Sal acetosell\'91 Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), salt of sorrel.  -- Sal alembroth. (Old Chem.) See Alembroth.  -- Sal ammoniac (Chem.), ammonium chloride, NH4Cl, a white crystalline volatile substance having a sharp salty taste, obtained from gas works, from nitrogenous matter, etc. It is largely employed as a source of ammonia, as a reagent, and as an expectorant in bronchitis. So called because originally made from the soot from camel's dung at the temple of Jupiter Ammon in Africa. Called also muriate of ammonia.  -- Sal catharticus Etym: [NL.] (Old Med. Chem.), Epsom salts.  -- Sal culinarius Etym: [L.] (Old Chem.), common salt, or sodium chloride.  -- Sal Cyrenaicus. Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.) See Sal ammoniac above.  -- Sal de duobus, Sal duplicatum Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), potassium sulphate; -- so called because erroneously supposed to be composed of two salts, one acid and one alkaline.  -- Sal diureticus Etym: [NL.] (Old Med. Chem.), potassium acetate.  -- Sal enixum Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), acid potassium sulphate.  -- Sal gemm\'91 Etym: [NL.] (Old Min.), common salt occuring native.  -- Sal Jovis Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), salt tin, or stannic chloride; -- the alchemical name of tin being Jove.  -- Sal Martis Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), green vitriol, or ferrous sulphate; -- the alchemical name of iron being. Mars.  -- Sal microcosmicum Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.) See Microcosmic salt, under Microcosmic.  -- Sal plumbi Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), sugar of lead.  -- Sal prunella. (Old Chem.) See Prunella salt, under 1st Prunella.  -- Sal Saturni Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), sugar of lead, or lead acetate; -- the alchemical name of lead being Saturn.  -- Sal sedativus Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), sedative salt, or boric acid.  -- Sal Seignette Etym: [F. seignette, sel de seignette] (Chem.), Rochelle salt.  -- Sal soda (Chem.), sodium carbonate. See under Sodium.  -- Sal vitrioli Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), white vitriol; zinc sulphate.  -- Sal volatile. Etym: [NL.] (a) (Chem.) See Sal ammoniac, above. (b) Spirits of ammonia. 

SALAAM:  Same as Salam. Finally, Josiah might have made his salaam to the exciseman just as he was folding up that letter. Prof. Wilson. 

SALAAM:  To make or perform a salam. I have salaamed and kowtowed to him. H. James. 

SALABILITY:  The quality or condition of being salable; salableness. Duke of Argyll. 

SALABLE:  Capable of being sold; fit to be sold; finding a ready market.  -- Sal"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Sal"a*bly, adv. 

SALACIOUS:  Having a propensity to venery; lustful; lecherous. Dryden.  -- Sa*la"cious*ly, dv.  -- Sa*la"cious*ness, n. 

SALACITY:  Strong propensity to venery; lust; lecherousness. 

SALADE:  A helmet. See Sallet. 

SALADING:  Vegetable for salad. 

SALAERATUS:  See Saleratus. 

SALAGANE:  The esculent swallow. See under Esculent.  SALAL-BERRY Sal"al-ber`ry, n. Etym: [Probably of American Indian origin.] (Bot.)  The edible fruit of the Gaultheria Shallon, an ericaceous shrub found from California northwards. The berries are about the size of a common grape and of a dark purple color. 

SALAM:  A salutation or compliment of ceremony in the east by word or act; an obeisance, performed by bowing very low and placing the right palm on the forehead. [Written also salaam.] 

SALAMANDER:  Any one of numerous species of Urodela, belonging to Salamandra, Amblystoma, Plethodon, and various allied genera, especially those that are more or less terrestrial in their habits.  Note: The salamanders have, like lizards, an elongated body, four feet, and a long tail, but are destitute of scales. They are true Amphibia, related to the frogs. Formerly, it was a superstition that the salamander could live in fire without harm, and even extinguish it by the natural coldness of its body. I have maintained that salamander of yours with fire any time this two and thirty years. Shak. Whereas it is commonly said that a salamander extinguisheth fire, we have found by experience that on hot coals, it dieth immediately. Sir T. Browne.  2. (Zoöl.)  The pouched gopher (Geomys tuza) of the Southern United States.  3. A culinary utensil of metal with a plate or disk which is heated, and held over pastry, etc., to brown it.  4. A large poker. [prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  5. (Metal.)  Solidofied material in a furnace hearth. Giant salamander. (Zoöl.) See under Giant.  -- Salamander's hair or wool (Min.), a species of asbestus or mineral flax. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SALAMANDRINA:  A suborder of Urodela, comprising salamanders. 

SALAMANDRINE:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a salamander; enduring fire. Addison. 

SALAMANDROID:  Like or pertaining to the salamanders. 

SALAMANDROIDEA:  A division of Amphibia including the Salamanders and allied groups; the Urodela. 

SALAMSTONE:  A kind of blue sapphire brought from Ceylon. Dana. 

SALANGANA:  The salagane. 

SALARIED:  Receiving a salary; paid by a salary; having a salary attached; as, a salaried officer; a salaried office. 

SALARY:  Saline [Obs.] 

SALARY:  The recompense or consideration paid, or stipulated to be paid, to a person at regular intervals for services; fixed wages, as by the year, quarter, or month; stipend; hire. This is hire and salary, not revenge. Shak.  Note: Recompense for services paid at, or reckoned by, short intervals, as a day or week, is usually called wages.  Syn.  -- Stipend; pay; wages; hire; allowance. 

SALARY:  To pay, or agree to pay, a salary to; to attach salary to; as, to salary a clerk; to salary a position. 

SALE:  See 1st Sallow. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SALE:  See Salable, Salably, etc. 

SALEB:  See Salep. 

SALEBROSITY:  Roughness or ruggedness. [Obs.] Feltham. 

SALEBROUS:  Rough; rugged. [Obs.] 

SALEP:  The dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia. It is used to make a nutritious beverage by treating the powdered preparation with hot water. U. S. Disp. 

SALERATUS:  Aërated salt; a white crystalline substance having an alkaline taste and reaction, consisting of sodium bicarbonate (see under Sodium.) It is lagerly used in cooking, with sour milk (lactic acid) or cream of tartar as a substitute for yeast. It is also an ingridient of most baking powders, and is used in the preparation of effervescing drinks. 

SALESMAN:  One who sells anything; one whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise. 

SALESWOMAN:  A woman whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise. 

SALEWORK:  Work or things made for sale; hence, work done carelessly or slightingly. Shak. 

SALIAN:  Denoting a tribe of Franks who established themselves early in the fourth century on the river Sala [now Yssel]; Salic.  -- n.  A Salian Frank. 

SALIANT:  Same as Salient. 

SALIAUNCE:  Salience; onslaught. [Obs.] "So fierce saliaunce." Spenser. 

SALIC:  Of or pertaining to the Salian Franks, or to the Salic law so called. [Also salique.] Salic law. (a) A code of laws formed by the Salian Franks in the fifth century. By one provision of this code women were excluded from the inheritance of landed property. (b) Specifically, in modern times, a law supposed to be a special application of the above-mentioned provision, in accordance with which males alone can inherit the throne. This law has obtained in France, and at times in other countries of Europe, as Spain. 

SALICACEOUS:  Belonging or relating to the willow. 

SALICIN:  A glucoside found in the leaves of several species of willow (Salix) and poplar, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.salicyl alcohol glucoside, salicyl alcohol b-D- glucopyranoside, saligenin b-D-glucopyranoside, C13H18O7. It is used in biochemistry as a standard substrate for evaluating the potency of b-glucosidase in enzymatic preparations. It is also an analgesic. 

SALICYL:  The hypothetical radical of salicylic acid and of certain related compounds. 

SALICYLAL:  A thin, fragrant, colorless oil, HO.C6H4.CHO, found in the flowers of meadow sweet (Spiræa), and also obtained by oxidation of saligenin, etc. It reddens on exposure. Called also salycylol, salicylic aldehyde, and formerly salicylous, or spiroylous, acid. 

SALICYLATE:  A salt of salicylic acid. 

SALICYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid formerly obtained by fusing salicin with potassium hydroxide, and now made in large quantities from phenol (carbolic acid) by the action of carbon dioxide on heated sodium phenolate. It is a white crystalline substance. It is used as an antiseptic, and in its salts in the treatment of rheumatism. Called also hydroxybenzoic acid. 

SALICYLIDE:  A white crystalline substance obtained by dehydration of salicylic acid. 

SALICYLITE:  A compound of salicylal; -- named after the analogy of a salt. 

SALICYLOL:  Same as Salicylal. 

SALICYLOUS:  Pertaining to, or designating, a substance called salicylous acid, and now salicylal. [Obs.] 

SALIENCY:  Quality of being salient; hence, vigor. "A fatal lack of poetic saliency." J. Morley. 

SALIENT:  Projectiong outwardly; as, a salient angle; -- opposed to reëntering. See Illust. of Bastion.  5. (Her.)  Represented in a leaping position; as, a lion salient. Salient angle. See Salient, a., 4.  -- Salient polygon (Geom.), a polygon all of whose angles are salient.  -- Salient polyhedron (Geom.), a polyhedron all of whose solid angles are salient. 

SALIENT:  A salient angle or part; a projection. 

SALIENTLY:  In a salient manner. 

SALIFEROUS:  Producing, or impregnated with, salt. Saliferous rocks (Geol.), the New Red Sandstone system of some geologists; -- so called because, in Europe, this formation contains beds of salt. The saliferous beds of New York State belong largely to the Salina period of the Upper Silurian. See the Chart of Geology. 

SALIFIABLE:  Capable of neutralizing an acid to form a salt; -- said of bases; thus, ammonia is salifiable. 

SALIFICATION:  The act, process, or result of salifying; the state of being salified. 

SALIGENIN:  A phenol alcohol obtained, by the decomposition of salicin, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also hydroxy-benzyl alcohol. 

SALIGOT:  The water chestnut (Trapa natans). 

SALIMETER:  An instrument for measuring the amount of salt present in any given solution. [Written also salometer.] 

SALIMETRY:  The art or process of measuring the amount of salt in a substance. 

SALINA:  The period in which the American Upper Silurian system, containing the brine-producing rocks of central New York, was formed. See the Chart of Geology. 

SALINATION:  The act of washing with salt water. [R. & Obs..] Greenhill. 

SALINE:  A salt spring; a place where salt water is collected in the earth. 

SALINE:  A crude potash obtained from beet-root residues and other similar sources. [Written also salin.]  2. (Med. Chem.)  A metallic salt; esp., a salt of potassium, sodium, lithium, or magnesium, used in medicine. 

SALINENESS:  The quality or state of being salt; saltness. 

SALINIFEROUS:  Same as Saliferous. 

SALINIFORM:  Having the form or the qualities of a salt, especially of common salt. 

SALINITY:  Salineness. Carpenter. 

SALINOMETER:  A salimeter. 

SALINOUS:  Saline. [Obs.] 

SALIQUE:  Salic. Shak. She fulmined out her scorn of laws salique. Tennyson. 

SALIRETIN:  A yellow amorphous resinoid substance obtained by the action of dilute acids on saligenin. 

SALISBURIA:  The ginkgo tree (Ginkgo biloba, or Salisburia adiantifolia). 

SALITE:  To season with salt; to salt. [Obs.] 

SALITE:  A massive lamellar variety of pyroxene, of a dingy green color. [Written also sahlite.] 

SALIVA:  The secretion from the salivary glands.  Note: In man the saliva is a more or less turbid and slighty viscid fluid, generally of an alkaline reaction, and is secreted by the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands. In the mouth the saliva is mixed with the secretion from the buccal glands. The secretions from the individual salivary glands have their own special characteristics, and these are not the same in all animals. In man and many animals mixed saliva, i.e., saliva composed of the secretions of all three of the salivary glands, is an important degestive fluid on account of the presence of the peculiar enzyme, ptyalin. 

SALIVAL:  Salivary. 

SALIVANT:  Producing salivation. 

SALIVANT:  That which produces salivation. 

SALIVARY:  Of or pertaining to saliva; producing or carrying saliva; as, the salivary ferment; the salivary glands; the salivary ducts, etc. 

SALIVATE:  To produce an abnormal flow of saliva in; to produce salivation or ptyalism in, as by the use of mercury. over.; as, salivate over the prospects of high profits from an enterprise.  Note: Probably influenced by the experiments of Pavlov, who trained dogs to salivate at the sound of a bell, by previously ringing the bell immediately prior to feeding them. 

SALIVATION:  The act or process of salivating; an excessive secretion of saliva, often accompained with soreness of the mouth and gums; ptyalism.  Note: It may be induced by direct chemical or mechanical stimulation, as in mastication of some tasteless substance like rubber, or indirectly by some agent which affects the whole system, as mercury compounds. 

SALIVOUS:  Pertaining to saliva; of the nature of saliva. 

SALLENDERS:  An eruption on the hind leg of a horse. [Written also sellanders, and sellenders.] On the inside of the hock, or a little below it, as well as at the bend of the knee, there is occasionally a scurfy eruption called "mallenders" in the fore leg, and "sallenders" in the hind leg. Youatt. 

SALLET:  A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introduced during the 15th century. [Written also salade.] Then he must have a sallet wherewith his head may be saved. Latimer.  SALLET; SALLETING Sal"let, Sal"let*ing, n.  Salad. [Obs.] Shak. 

SALLIANCE:  Salience. [Obs.] 

SALLOW:  A name given to certain species of willow, especially those which do not have flexible shoots, as Salix caprea, S. cinerea, etc. Sallow thorn (Bot.), a European thorny shrub (Hippophae rhamnoides) much like an Elæagnus. The yellow berries are sometimes used for making jelly, and the plant affords a yellow dye. 

SALLOW:  Having a yellowish color; of a pale, sickly color, tinged with yellow; as, a sallow skin. Shak. 

SALLOW:  To tinge with sallowness. [Poetic] July breathes hot, sallows the crispy fields. Lowell. 

SALLOWISH:  Somewhat sallow. Dickens. 

SALLOWNESS:  The quality or condition of being sallow. Addison. 

SALLY:  To leap or rush out; to burst forth; to issue suddenly; as a body of troops from a fortified place to attack besiegers; to make a sally. They break the truce, and sally out by night. Dryden. The foe retires, -- she heads the sallying host. Byron. 

SALLY:  A tea cake slighty sweetened, and raised with yeast, baked in the form of biscuits or in a thin loaf, and eaten hot with butter. 

SALLYMAN:  The velella; -- called also saleeman. 

SALM:  Psalm. [Obs.] Piers plowman. 

SALMI:  Same as Salmis. 

SALMIAC:  Sal ammoniac. See under Sal. 

SALMIS:  A ragout or partky roasted game stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments suited to provoke appetite. 

SALMON:  Any one of several species of fishes of the genus Salmo and allied genera. The common salmon (Salmo salar) of Northern Europe and Eastern North America, and the California salmon, or quinnat, are the most important species. They are extensively preserved for food. See Quinnat.  Note: The salmons ascend rivers and penetrate to their head streams to spawn. They are remarkably strong fishes, and will even leap over considerable falls which lie in the way of their progress. The common salmon has been known to grow to the weight of seventy-five pounds; more generally it is from fifteen to twenty-five pounds. Young salmon are called parr, peal, smolt, and grilse. Among the true salmons are: Black salmon, or Lake salmon, the namaycush.  -- Dog salmon, a salmon of Western North America (Oncorhynchus keta).  -- Humpbacked salmon, a Pacific-coast salmon (Oncorhynchus gorbuscha).  -- King salmon, the quinnat.  -- Landlocked salmon, a variety of the common salmon (var. Sebago), long confined in certain lakes in consequence of obstructions that prevented it from returning to the sea. This last is called also dwarf salmon. Among fishes of other families which are locally and erroneously called salmon are: the pike perch, called jack salmon; the spotted, or southern, squeteague; the cabrilla, called kelp salmon; young pollock, called sea salmon; and the California yellowtail.  2. A reddish yellow or orange color, like the flesh of the salmon. Salmon berry (Bot.), a large red raspberry growing from Alaska to California, the fruit of the Rubus Nutkanus.  -- Salmon killer (Zoöl.), a stickleback (Gasterosteus cataphractus) of Western North America and Northern Asia.  -- Salmon ladder, salmon stair. See Fish ladder, under Fish.  -- Salmon peel, a young salmon.  -- Salmon pipe, a certain device for catching salmon. Crabb.  -- Salmon trout. (Zoöl.) (a) The European sea trout (Salmo trutta). It resembles the salmon, but is smaller, and has smaller and more numerous scales. (b) The American namaycush. (c) A name that is also applied locally to the adult black spotted trout (Salmo purpuratus), and to the steel head and other large trout of the Pacific coast. 

SALMON:  Of a reddish yellow or orange color, like that of the flesh of the salmon. 

SALMONET:  A salmon of small size; a samlet. 

SALMONOID:  Like, or pertaining to, the Salmonidæ, a family of fishes including the trout and salmon.  -- n.  Any fish of the family Salmonidæ. 

SALOGEN:  A halogen. [Obs.] 

SALOL:  A white crystalline substance consisting of phenol salicylate. 

SALOMETER:  See Salimeter. 

SALOMETRY:  Salimetry. 

SALON:  An apartment for the reception of company; hence, in the plural, faschionable parties; circles of fashionable society. 

SALON:  An apartment for the reception and exhibition of works of art; hence, an annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, etc., held in Paris by the Society of French Artists; -- sometimes called the Old Salon. New Salon is a popular name for an annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, etc., held in Paris at the Champs de Mars, by the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts (National Society of Fine Arts), a body of artists who, in 1890, seceded from the Société des Artistes Français (Society of French Artists). 

SALOOP:  An aromatic drink prepared from sassafras bark and other ingredients, at one time much used in London. J. Smith (Dict. econ. Plants). Saloop bush (Bot.), an Australian shrub (Rhagodia hastata) of the Goosefoot family, used for fodder. 

SALP:  Any species of Salpa, or of the family Salpidæ. 

SALPA:  A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanic tunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes. See Illustration in Appendix.  Note: Each species exists in two distinct forms, one of which lives solitary, and produces, by budding from an internal organ, a series of the other kind. These are united together, side by side, so as to form a chain, or cluster, often of large size. Each of the individuals composing the chain carries a single egg, which develops into the solitary kind.  SALPIAN; SALPID Sal"pi*an, Sal"pid, n. (Zoöl.)  A salpa. 

SALPICON:  Chopped meat, bread, etc., used to stuff legs of veal or other joints; stuffing; farce. Bacon. 

SALPINGITIS:  Inflammation of the salpinx. 

SALPINX:  The Eustachian tube, or the Fallopian tube. 

SALSAFY:  See Salsify. 

SALSAMENTARIOUS:  Salt; salted; saline. [R.] 

SALSE:  A mud volcano, the water of which is often impregnated with salts, whence the name. 

SALSIFY:  See Oyster plant (a), under Oyster.  SALSO-ACID Sal"so-ac`id, a. Etym: [L. salsus salted, salt + acidus acid.]  Having a taste compounded of saltness and acidity; both salt and acid. [R.] 

SALSODA:  See Sal soda, under Sal. 

SALSOLA:  A genus of plants including the glasswort. See Glasswort. 

SALSUGINOUS:  Growing in brackish places or in salt marches. 

SALT:  The neutral compound formed by the union of an acid base; thus, sulphuric acid and iron form the salt sulphate of iron or green vitriol.  Note: Except in case of ammonium salts, accurately speaking, it is the acid radical which unites with the base or basic radical, with the elimination of hydrogen, of water, or of analogous compounds as side products. In the case of diacid and triacid bases, and of dibasic and tribasic acids, the mutual neutralization may vary in degree, producing respectively basic, neutral, or acid salts See Phrases below.  7. Fig.: That which preserves from corruption or error; that which purifies; a corrective; an antiseptic; also, an allowance or deduction; as, his statements must be taken with a grain of salt. Ye are the salt of the earth. Matt. v. 13.  8. pl.  Any mineral salt used as an aperient or cathartic, especially Epsom salts, Rochelle salt, or Glauber's salt.  9. pl.  Marches flooded by the tide. [Prov. Eng.] Above the salt, Below the salt, phrases which have survived the old custom, in the houses of people of rank, of placing a large saltcellar near the middle of a long table, the places above which were assigned to the guests of distinction, and those below to dependents, inferiors, and poor relations. See Saltfoot. His fashion is not to take knowledge of him that is beneath him in clothes. He never drinks below the salt. B. Jonson. -- Acid salt (Chem.) (a) A salt derived from an acid which has several replaceable hydrogen atoms which are only partially exchanged for metallic atoms or basic radicals; as, acid potassium sulphate is an acid salt. (b) A salt, whatever its constitution, which merely gives an acid reaction; thus, copper sulphate, which is composed of a strong acid united with a weak base, is an acid salt in this sense, though theoretically it is a neutral salt.  -- Alkaline salt (Chem.), a salt which gives an alkaline reaction, as sodium carbonate.  -- Amphid salt (Old Chem.), a salt of the oxy type, formerly regarded as composed of two oxides, an acid and a basic oxide. [Obsolescent] -- Basic salt (Chem.) (a) A salt which contains more of the basic constituent than is required to neutralize the acid. (b) An alkaline salt.  -- Binary salt (Chem.), a salt of the oxy type conveniently regarded as composed of two ingredients (analogously to a haloid salt), viz., a metal and an acid radical.  -- Double salt (Chem.), a salt regarded as formed by the union of two distinct salts, as common alum, potassium aluminium sulphate. See under Double.  -- Epsom salts. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Essential salt (Old Chem.), a salt obtained by crystalizing plant juices.  -- Ethereal salt. (Chem.) See under Ethereal.  -- Glauber's salt or salts. See in Vocabulary.  -- Haloid salt (Chem.), a simple salt of a halogen acid, as sodium chloride.  -- Microcosmic salt. (Chem.). See under Microcosmic.  -- Neutral salt. (Chem.) (a A salt in which the acid and base (in theory) neutralize each other. (b) A salt which gives a neutral reaction.  -- Oxy salt (Chem.), a salt derived from an oxygen acid.  -- Per salt (Old Chem.), a salt supposed to be derived from a peroxide base or analogous compound. [Obs.] -- Permanent salt, a salt which undergoes no change on exposure to the air.  -- Proto salt (Chem.), a salt derived from a protoxide base or analogous compound.  -- Rochelle salt. See under Rochelle.  -- Salt of amber (Old Chem.), succinic acid.  -- Salt of colcothar (Old Chem.), green vitriol, or sulphate of iron.  -- Salt of hartshorn. (Old Chem.) (a) Sal ammoniac, or ammonium chloride. (b) Ammonium carbonate. Cf. Spirit of hartshorn, under Hartshorn.  -- Salt of lemons. (Chem.) See Salt of sorrel, below.  -- Salt of Saturn (Old Chem.), sugar of lead; lead acetate; -- the alchemical of lead being Saturn.  -- Salt of Seignette. Same as Rochelle salt.  -- Salt of soda (Old Chem.), sodium carbonate.  -- Salt of sorrel (Old Chem.), acid potassium oxalate, or potassium quadroxalate, used as a solvent for ink stains; -- so called because found in the sorrel, or Oxalis. Also sometimes inaccurately called salt of lemon.  -- Salt of tartar (Old Chem.), potassium carbonate; -- so called because formerly made by heating cream of tartar, or potassium tartrate. [Obs.] -- Salt of Venus (Old Chem.), blue vitriol; copper sulphate; -- the alchemical name of copper being Venus.  -- Salt of wisdom. See Alembroth.  -- Sedative salt (Old Med. Chem.), boric acid.  -- Sesqui salt (Chem.), a salt derived from a sesquioxide base or analogous compound.  -- Spirit of salt. (Chem.) See under Spirit.  -- Sulpho salt (Chem.), a salt analogous to an oxy salt, but containing sulphur in place of oxygen. 

SALT:  To deposit salt as a saline solution; as, the brine begins to salt. 

SALT:  The act of leaping or jumping; a leap. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SALTANT:  In a leaping position; springing forward; -- applied especially to the squirrel, weasel, and rat, also to the cat, greyhound, monkey, etc. 

SALTARELLA:  See Saltarello. 

SALTARELLO:  A popular Italian dance in quick 3-4 or 6-8 time, running mostly in triplets, but with a hop step at the beginning of each measure. See Tarantella. 

SALTATE:  To leap or dance. [R.] 

SALTATION:  An abrupt and marked variation in the condition or appearance of a species; a sudden modification which may give rise to new races. We greatly suspect that nature does make considerable jumps in the way of variation now and then, and that these saltations give rise to some of the gaps which appear to exist in the series of known forms. Huxley. 

SALTATORIA:  A division of Orthoptera including grasshoppers, locusts, and crickets. 

SALTATORIOUS:  Capable of leaping; formed for leaping; saltatory; as, a saltatorious insect or leg. 

SALTATORY:  Leaping or dancing; having the power of, or used in, leaping or dancing. Saltatory evolution (Biol.), a theory of evolution which holds that the transmutation of species is not always gradual, but that there may come sudden and marked variations. See Saltation.  -- Saltatory spasm (Med.), an affection in which pressure of the foot on a floor causes the patient to spring into the air, so as to make repeated involuntary motions of hopping and jumping. J. Ross. 

SALTBUSH:  An Australian plant (Atriplex nummularia) of the Goosefoot family. 

SALTCAT:  A mixture of salt, coarse meal lime, etc., attractive to pigeons. 

SALTCELLAR:  Formerly a large vessel, now a small vessel of glass or other material, used for holding salt on the table. 

SALTER:  One who makes, sells, or applies salt; one who salts meat or fish. 

SALTERN:  A building or place where salt is made by boiling or by evaporation; salt works. 

SALTFOOT:  A large saltcellar formerly placed near the center of the table. The superior guests were seated above the saltfoot.  SALT-GREEN Salt"-green, a.  Sea-green in color. Shak. 

SALTIE:  The European dab. 

SALTIER:  See Saltire. 

SALTIGRADAE:  A tribe of spiders including those which lie in wait and leap upon their prey; the leaping spiders. 

SALTIGRADE:  Having feet or legs formed for leaping. 

SALTIGRADE:  One of the Saltigradæ a tribe of spiders which leap to seize their prey. 

SALTIMBANCO:  A mountebank; a quack. [Obs.] [Written also santibanco.] Saltimbancos, quacksalvers, and charlatans. Sir T. browne. 

SALTIRE:  A St. Andrew's cross, or cross in the form of an X, -- one of the honorable ordinaries. 

SALTIREWISE:  In the manner of a saltire; -- said especially of the blazoning of a shield divided by two lines drawn in the direction of a bend and a bend sinister, and crossing at the center. 

SALTISH:  Somewhat salt.  -- Salt"ish*ly, adv.  -- Salt"ish*ness, n. 

SALTLESS:  Destitute of salt; insipid. 

SALTLY:  With taste of salt; in a salt manner. 

SALTMOUTH:  A wide-mouthed bottle with glass stopper for holding chemicals, especially crystallized salts. 

SALTNESS:  The quality or state of being salt, or state of being salt, or impregnated with salt; salt taste; as, the saltness of sea water.  SALTPETER; SALTPETRE Salt`pe"ter, Salt`pe"tre, (, n. Etym: [F. salpêtre, NL. sal petrae, literally, rock salt, or stone salt; Salt, and Petrify.] (Chem.)  Potassium nitrate; niter, a white crystalline substance, KNO3, having a cooling saline taste, obtained by leaching from certain soils in which it is produced by the process of nitrification (see Nitrification, 2). It is a strong oxidizer, is the chief constituent of gunpowder, and is also used as an antiseptic in curing meat, and in medicine as a diuretic, diaphoretic, and refrigerant. Chili salpeter (Chem.), sodium nitrate (distinguished from potassium nitrate, or true salpeter), a white crystalline substance, NaNO3, having a cooling, saline, slightly bitter taste. It is obtained by leaching the soil of the rainless districts of Chili and Peru. It is deliquescent and cannot be used in gunpowder, but is employed in the production of nitric acid. Called also cubic niter.  -- Saltpeter acid (Chem.), nitric acid; -- sometimes so called because made from saltpeter. 

SALTPETROUS:  Pertaining to saltpeter, or partaking of its qualities; impregnated with saltpeter. [Obs.]  SALT RHEUM Salt" rheum. (Med.)  A popular name, esp. in the United States, for various cutaneous eruptions, particularly for those of eczema. See Eczema. 

SALTWORT:  A name given to several plants which grow on the seashore, as the Batis maritima, and the glasswort. See Glasswort. Black saltwort, the sea milkwort. 

SALTY:  Somewhat salt; saltish. 

SALUBRIOUS:  Favorable to health; healthful; promoting health; as, salubrious air, water, or climate.  Syn.  -- Healthful; wholesome; healthy; salutary.  -- Sa-lu"bri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Sa*lu"bri*ous*ness, n. 

SALUBRITY:  The quality of being salubrious; favorableness to the preservation of health; salubriousness; wholesomeness; healthfulness; as, the salubrity of the air, of a country, or a climate. "A sweet, dry small of salubrity." G. W. Cable. 

SALUE:  To salute. [Obs.] There was no "good day" and no saluyng. Chaucer. 

SALUTATION:  The act of saluting, or paying respect or reverence, by the customary words or actions; the act of greeting, or expressing good will or courtesy; also, that which is uttered or done in saluting or greeting. In all public meetings or private addresses, use those forms of salutation, reverence, and decency usual amongst the most sober persons. Jer. Taylor.  Syn.  -- Greeting; salute; address.  -- Salutation, Greeting, Salute, Greeting is the general word for all manner of expressions of recognition, agreeable or otherwise, made when persons meet or communicate with each other. A greeting may be hearty and loving, chilling and offensive, or merely formal, as in the opening sentence of legal documents. Salutation more definitely implies a wishing well, and is used of expressions at parting as well as at meeting. It is used especially of uttered expressions of good will. Salute, while formerly and sometimes still in the sense of either greeting or salutation, is now used specifically to denote a conventional demonstration not expressed in words. The guests received a greeting which relieved their embrassment, offered their salutations in well-chosen terms, and when they retired, as when they entered, made a deferential salute. Woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye love the uppermost seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the markets. Luke xi. 43. When Elisabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her womb. Luke i. 41. I shall not trouble my reader with the first salutes of our three friends. Addison. 

SALUTATORIAN:  The student who pronounces the salutatory oration at the annual Commencement or like exercises of a college, -- an honor commonly assigned to that member of the graduating class who ranks second in scholarship. [U.S.] 

SALUTATORILY:  By way of salutation. 

SALUTATORY:  Containing or expressing salutations; speaking a welcome; greeting; -- applied especially to the oration which introduces the exercises of the Commencements, or similar public exhibitions, in American colleges. 

SALUTATORY:  The salutatory oration. 

SALUTE:  To honor, as some day, person, or nation, by a discharge of cannon or small arms, by dipping colors, by cheers, etc.  4. To promote the welfare and safety of; to benefit; to gratify. [Obs.] "If this salute my blood a jot." Shak. 

SALUTE:  A token of respect or honor for some distinguished or official personage, for a foreign vessel or flag, or for some festival or event, as by presenting arms, by a discharge of cannon, volleys of small arms, dipping the colors or the topsails, etc. 

SALUTER:  One who salutes. 

SALUTIFEROUS:  Bringing health; healthy; salutary; beneficial; as, salutiferous air. [R.] Innumerable powers, all of them salutiferous. Cudworth.  Syn.  -- Healthful; healthy; salutary; salubrious. 

SALUTIFEROUSLY:  Salutarily. [R.] 

SALVABILITY:  The quality or condition of being salvable; salvableness. [R.] In the Latin scheme of redemption, salvability was not possible outside the communion of the visible organization. A. V. G. Allen. 

SALVABLE:  Capable of being saved; admitting of salvation. Dr. H. More.  -- Sal"va*ble*ness, n.  -- Sal"va*bly, adv. 

SALVAGE:  Savage. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SALVATION:  The redemption of man from the bondage of sin and liability to eternal death, and the conferring on him of everlasting happiness. To earn salvation for the sons of men. Milton. Godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation. 2. Cor. vii. 10.  3. Saving power; that which saves. Fear ye not; stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will show to you to-day. Ex. xiv. 13. Salvation Army, an organization for prosecuting the work of Christian evangelization, especially among the degraded populations of cities. It is virtually a new sect founded in London in 1861 by William Booth. The evangelists, male and female, have military titles according to rank, that of the chief being "General." They wear a uniform, and in their phraseology and mode of work adopt a quasi military style. 

SALVATIONIST:  An evangelist, a member, or a recruit, of the Salvation Army. 

SALVATORY:  A place where things are preserved; a repository. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

SALVE:  Hail! 

SALVE:  To say "Salve" to; to greet; to salute. [Obs.] By this that stranger knight in presence came, And goodly salved them. Spenser. 

SALVE:  To save, as a ship or goods, from the perils of the sea. [Recent] 

SALVER:  One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a quacksalver, or quack. [Obs.] 

SALVER:  A salvor. Skeat. 

SALVER:  A tray or waiter on which anything is presented.  SALVER-SHAPED Sal"ver-shaped`, a. (Bot.)  Tubular, with a speading border. See Hypocraterimorphous. 

SALVIA:  A genus of plants including the sage. See Sage. 

SALVIFIC:  Tending to save or secure safety. [Obs.] 

SALVO:  An exception; a reservation; an excuse. They admit many salvos, cautions, and reservations. Eilon Basilike. 

SALVO:  A concentrated fire from pieces of artillery, as in endeavoring to make a break in a fortification; a volley.  2. A salute paid by a simultaneous, or nearly simultaneous, firing of a number of cannon. 

SALVOR:  One who assists in saving a ship or goods at sea, without being under special obligation to do so. Wheaton. 

SAM:  Together. [Obs.] "All in that city sam." Spenser. 

SAMARA:  A dry, indehiscent, usually one-seeded, winged fruit, as that of the ash, maple, and elm; a key or key fruit. 

SAMARE:  See Simar. 

SAMARITAN:  Of or pertaining to Samaria, in Palestine.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Samaria; also, the language of Samaria. 

SAMARIUM:  A rare metallic element of doubtful identity.  Note: Samarium was discovered, by means of spectrum analysis, in certain minerals (samarskite, cerite, etc.), in which it is associated with other elements of the earthy group. It has been confounded with the donbtful elements decipium, philippium, etc., and is possibly a complex mixture of elements not as yet clearly identified. Symbol Sm. Provisional atomic weight 150.2. 

SAMAROID:  Resembling a samara, or winged seed vessel. 

SAMARRA:  See Simar. 

SAMARSKITE:  A rare mineral having a velvet-black color and submetallic luster. It is a niobate of uranium, iron, and the yttrium and cerium metals. 

SAMBO:  A colloquial or humorous appelation for a negro; sometimes, the offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo. 

SAMBOO:  Same as Sumbur. 

SAMBUCUS:  A genus of shrubs and trees; the elder. 

SAMBUKE:  An ancient stringed instrument used by the Greeks, the particular construction of which is unknown. 

SAMBUR:  An East Indian deer (Rusa Aristotelis) having a mane on its neck. Its antlers have but three prongs. Called also gerow. The name is applied to other species of the genus Rusa, as the Bornean sambur (R. equina). 

SAMELINESS:  Sameness, 2. [R.] Bayne. 

SAMETTE:  See Samite. [Obs.] 

SAMIAN:  Of or pertaining to the island of Samos. Fill high the cup with Samian wine. Byreon. Samian earth, a species of clay from Samoa, formerly used in medicine as an astringent. 

SAMIAN:  A native or inhabitant of Samos. 

SAMIEL:  A hot and destructive wind that sometimes blows, in Turkey, from the desert. It is identical with the simoom of Arabia and the kamsin of Syria. 

SAMIOT:  Samian. 

SAMISEN:  A Japanese musical instrument with three strings, resembling a guitar or banjo. 

SAMITE:  A species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with gold. Tennyson. In silken samite she was light arrayed. Spenser. 

SAMLET:  The parr. 

SAMMIER:  A machine for pressing the water from skins in tanning. Knight. 

SAMOAN:  Of or pertaining to the Samoan Islands (formerly called Navigators' Islands) in the South Pacific Ocean, or their inhabitants.  -- n.  An inhabitant of the Samoan Islands. 

SAMOVAR:  A metal urn used in Russia for making tea. It is filled with water, which is heated by charcoal placed in a pipe, with chimney attached, which passes through the urn. 

SAMOYEDES:  An ignorant and degraded Turanian tribe which occupies a portion of Northern Russia and a part of Siberia.Samoyeds. 

SAMP:  An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which is cooked by by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy. 

SAMPAN:  A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered with a house, and sometimes used as a permanent habitation on the inland waters. [Written also sanpan.] 

SAMPLER:  A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure. S. W. Williams. 

SAMSON:  An Israelite of Bible record (see Judges xiii.), distinguished for his great strength; hence, a man of extraordinary physical strength. Samson post. (a) (Naut.) A strong post resting on the keelson, and supporting a beam of the keelson, and supporting a beam of the deck; also, a temporary or movable pilar carrying a leading block or pulley for various purposes. Brande & C. (b) In deepwell boring, the post which supports the walking beam of the apparatus. 

SAMURAI:  In the former feudal system of Japan, the class or a member of the class, of military retainers of the daimios, constituting the gentry or lesser nobility. They possessed power of life and death over the commoners, and wore two swords as their distinguishing mark. Their special rights and privileges were abolished with the fall of feudalism in 1871. 

SANABILITY:  The quality or state of being sanable; sanableness; curableness. 

SANABLE:  Capable of being healed or cured; susceptible of remedy.  Syn.  -- Remediable; curable; healable. 

SANABLENESS:  The quality of being sanable. 

SANATION:  The act of healing or curing. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

SANATIVE:  Having the power to cure or heal; healing; tending to heal; sanatory.  -- San"a*tive*ness, n. 

SANATORIUM:  An establishment for the treatment of the sick; a resort for invalids. See Sanitarium. 

SANATORY:  Conducive to health; tending to cure; healing; curative; sanative. Sanatory ordinances for the protection of public health, such as quarantine, fever hospitals, draining, etc. De Quincey.  Note: Sanatory and sanitary should not be confounded. Sanatory signifies conducive to health, while sanitary has the more general meaning of pertaining to health. 

SANBENITO:  See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus. 

SANCHO:  The nine of trumps in sancho pedro.  SANCHO PEDRO Sancho pedro. [Sp. Pedro Peter.] (Card Playing)  A variety of auction pitch in which the nine (sancho) and five (pedro) of trumps are added as counting cards at their pip value, and the ten of trumps counts game. 

SANCTIFICATE:  To sanctify. [Obs.] Barrow. 

SANCTIFIED:  Made holy; also, made to have the air of sanctity; sanctimonious. 

SANCTIFIER:  One who sanctifies, or makes holy; specifically, the Holy Spirit. 

SANCTIFYINGLY:  In a manner or degree tending to sanctify or make holy. 

SANCTILOQUENT:  Discoursing on heavenly or holy things, or in a holy manner. 

SANCTIMONIAL:  Sanctimonius. [Obs.] 

SANCTIMONY:  Holiness; devoutness; scrupulous austerity; sanctity; especially, outward or artificial saintliness; assumed or pretended holiness; hypocritical devoutness. Her pretense is a pilgrimage; . . . which holy undertaking with most austere sanctimony she accomplished. Shak. 

SANCTION:  To give sanction to; to ratify; to confirm; to approve. Would have counseled, or even sanctioned, such perilous experiments. De Quincey.  Syn.  -- To ratify; confirm; authorize; countenance. 

SANCTIONARY:  Of, pertaining to, or giving, sanction. 

SANCTITUDE:  Holiness; sacredness; sanctity. [R.] milton. 

SANCTUARIZE:  To shelter by means of a sanctuary or sacred privileges. [Obs.] Shak. 

SANCTUARY:  A sacred place; a consecrated spot; a holy and inviolable site. Hence, specifically: (a) The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant, and into which no person was permitted to enter except the high priest, and he only once a year, to intercede for the people; also, the most sacred part of the tabernacle; also, the temple at Jerusalem. (b) (Arch.) The most sacred part of any religious building, esp. that part of a Christian church in which the altar is placed. (c) A house consecrated to the worship of God; a place where divine service is performed; a church, temple, or other place of worship. (d) A sacred and inviolable asylum; a place of refuge and protection; shelter; refuge; protection. These laws, whoever made them, bestowed on temples the privelege of sanctuary. Milton . These admirable works of painting were made fuel for the fire; but some relics of it took sanctuary under ground, and escaped the common destiny. Dryden. Wildlife sanctuary, a tract of land set aside by law for the preservation of wildlife, in which no hunting is permitted. 

SANCTUM:  A sacred place; hence, a place of retreat; a room reserved for personal use; as, an editor's sanctum. Sanctum sanctorum Etym: [L.] , the Holy of Holies; the most holy place, as in the Jewish temple. 

SANCTUS:  A part of the Mass, or, in Protestant churches, a part of the communion service, of which the first words in Latin are Sanctus, sanctus, sanctus [Holy, holy, holy]; -- called also Tersanctus.  2. (Mus.)  An anthem composed for these words. Sanctus bell, a small bell usually suspended in a bell cot at the apex of the nave roof, over the chancel arch, in mediæval churches, but a hand bell is now often used; -- so called because rung at the singing of the sanctus, at the conclusion of the ordinary of the Mass, and again at the elevation of the host. Called also Mass bell, sacring bell, saints' bell, sance- bell, sancte bell. 

SAND:  Tracts of land consisting of sand, like the deserts of Arabia and Africa; also, extensive tracts of sand exposed by the ebb of the tide. "The Libyan sands." Milton. "The sands o'Dee." C. Kingsley.  5. Courage; pluck; grit. [Slang] Sand badger (Zoöl.), the Japanese badger (Meles ankuma).  -- Sand bag (a) A bag filled with sand or earth, used for various purposes, as in fortification, for ballast, etc. (b) A long bag filled with sand, used as a club by assassins.  -- Sand ball, soap mixed with sand, made into a ball for use at the toilet.  -- Sand bath. (a) (Chem.) A vessel of hot sand in a laboratory, in which vessels that are to be heated are partially immersed. (b) A bath in which the body is immersed in hot sand.  -- Sand bed, a thick layer of sand, whether deposited naturally or artificially; specifically, a thick layer of sand into which molten metal is run in casting, or from a reducing furnace.  -- Sand birds (Zoöl.), a collective name for numerous species of limicoline birds, such as the sandpipers, plovers, tattlers, and many others; -- called also shore birds.  -- Sand blast, a process of engraving and cutting glass and other hard substances by driving sand against them by a steam jet or otherwise; also, the apparatus used in the process.  -- Sand box. (a) A box with a perforated top or cover, for sprinkling paper with sand. (b) A box carried on locomotives, from which sand runs on the rails in front of the driving wheel, to prevent slipping.  -- Sand-box tree (Bot.), a tropical American tree (Hura crepitans). Its fruit is a depressed many-celled woody capsule which, when completely dry, bursts with a loud report and scatters the seeds. See Illust. of Regma.  -- Sand bug (Zoöl.), an American anomuran crustacean (Hippa talpoidea) which burrows in sandy seabeaches. It is often used as bait by fishermen. See Illust. under Anomura.  -- Sand canal (Zoöl.), a tubular vessel having a calcareous coating, and connecting the oral ambulacral ring with the madreporic tubercle. It appears to be excretory in function.  -- Sand cock (Zoöl.), the redshank. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sand collar. (Zoöl.) Same as Sand saucer, below.  -- Sand crab. (Zoöl.) (a) The lady crab. (b) A land crab, or ocypodian.  -- Sand crack (Far.), a crack extending downward from the coronet, in the wall of a horse's hoof, which often causes lameness.  -- Sand cricket (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large terrestrial crickets of the genus Stenophelmatus and allied genera, native of the sandy plains of the Western United States.  -- Sand cusk (Zoöl.), any ophidiod fish. See Illust. under Ophidiod.  -- Sand dab (Zoöl.), a small American flounder (Limanda ferruginea); -- called also rusty dab. The name is also applied locally to other allied species.  -- Sand darter (Zoöl.), a small etheostomoid fish of the Ohio valley (Ammocrypta pellucida).  -- Sand dollar (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small flat circular sea urchins, which live on sandy bottoms, especially Echinarachnius parma of the American coast.  -- Sand drift, drifting sand; also, a mound or bank of drifted sand.  -- Sand eel. (Zoöl.) (a) A lant, or launce. (b) A slender Pacific Ocean fish of the genus Gonorhynchus, having barbels about the mouth.  -- Sand flag, sandstone which splits up into flagstones.  -- Sand flea. (Zoöl.) (a) Any species of flea which inhabits, or breeds in, sandy places, especially the common dog flea. (b) the chigoe. (c) Any leaping amphipod crustacean; a beach flea, or orchestian. See Beach flea, under Beach.  -- Sand flood, a vast body of sand borne along by the wind. James Bruce.  -- Sand fluke. (Zoöl.) (a) The sandnecker. (b) The European smooth dab (Pleuronectes microcephalus); -- called also kitt, marysole, smear dab, town dab.  -- Sand fly (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small dipterous flies of the genus Simulium, abounding on sandy shores, especially Simulium nocivum of the United States. They are very troublesome on account of their biting habits. Called also no-see-um, punky, and midge.  -- Sand gall (Geol.) See Sand pipe, below.  -- Sand grass (Bot.), any species of grass which grows in sand; especially, a tufted grass (Triplasis purpurea) with numerous bearded joints, and acid awl-shaped leaves, growing on the Atlantic coast.  -- Sand grouse (Zoöl.), any one of many species of Old World birds belonging to the suborder Pterocletes, and resembling both grouse and pigeons. Called also rock grouse, rock pigeon, and ganga. They mostly belong to the genus Pterocles, as the common Indian species (P. exustus). The large sand grouse (P. arenarius), the painted sand grouse (P. fasciatus), and the pintail sand grouse (P. alchata) are also found in India. See Illust. under Pterocletes.  -- Sand hill, a hill of sand; a dune.  -- Sand-hill crane (Zoöl.), the American brown crane (Grus Mexicana).  -- Sand hopper (Zoöl.), a beach flea; an orchestian.  -- Sand hornet (Zoöl.), a sand wasp.  -- Sand lark. (Zoöl.) (a) A small lark (Alaudala raytal), native of India. (b) A small sandpiper, or plover, as the ringneck, the sanderling, and the common European sandpiper. (c) The Australian red-capped dotterel (Ægialophilus ruficapillus); -- called also red- necked plover.  -- Sand launce (Zoöl.), a lant, or launce.  -- Sand lizard (Zoöl.), a common European lizard (Lacerta agilis).  -- Sand martin (Zoöl.), the bank swallow.  -- Sand mole (Zoöl.), the coast rat.  -- Sand monitor (Zoöl.), a large Egyptian lizard (Monitor arenarius) which inhabits dry localities.  -- Sand mouse (Zoöl.), the dunlin. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sand myrtle. (Bot.) See under Myrtle.  -- Sand partridge (Zoöl.), either of two small Asiatic partridges of the genus Ammoperdix. The wings are long and the tarsus is spurless. One species (A. Heeji) inhabits Palestine and Arabia. The other species (A. Bonhami), inhabiting Central Asia, is called also seesee partridge, and teehoo.  -- Sand picture, a picture made by putting sand of different colors on an adhesive surface.  -- Sand pike. (Zoöl.) (a) The sauger. (b) The lizard fish.  -- Sand pillar, a sand storm which takes the form of a whirling pillar in its progress in desert tracts like those of the Sahara and Mongolia.  -- Sand pipe (Geol.), a tubular cavity, from a few inches to several feet in dept, occurring especially in calcareous rocks, and often filled with gravel, sand, etc.; -- called also sand gall.  -- Sand pride (Zoöl.), a small british lamprey now considered to be the young of larger species; -- called also sand prey.  -- Sand pump, in artesian well boring, a long, slender bucket with a valve at the bottom for raising sand from the well.  -- Sand rat (Zoöl.), the pocket gopher.  -- Sand rock, a rock made of cemented sand.  -- Sand runner (Zoöl.), the turnstone.  -- Sand saucer (Zoöl.), the mass of egg capsules, or oöthecæ, of any mollusk of the genus Natica and allied genera. It has the shape of a bottomless saucer, and is coated with fine sand; -- called also sand collar.  -- Sand screw (Zoöl.), an amphipod crustacean (Lepidactylis arenarius), which burrows in the sandy seabeaches of Europe and America.  -- Sand shark (Zoöl.), an American shark (Odontaspis littoralis) found on the sandy coasts of the Eastern United States; -- called also gray shark, and dogfish shark. See Illust. under Remora.  -- Sand skink (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Old World lizards belonging to the genus Seps; as, the ocellated sand skink (Seps ocellatus) of Southern Europe.  -- Sand skipper (Zoöl.), a beach flea, or orchestian.  -- Sand smelt (Zoöl.), a silverside.  -- Sand snake. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of harmless burrowing snakes of the genus Eryx, native of Southern Europe, Africa, and Asia, especially E. Jaculus of India and E. Johnii, used by snake charmers. (b) Any innocuous South African snake of the genus Psammophis, especially P. sibilans.  -- Sand snipe (Zoöl.), the sandpiper.  -- Sand star (Zoöl.), an ophiurioid starfish living on sandy sea bottoms; a brittle star.  -- Sand storm, a cloud of sand driven violently by the wind.  -- Sand sucker, the sandnecker.  -- Sand swallow (Zoöl.), the bank swallow. See under Bank.  -- Sand tube, a tube made of sand. Especially: (a) A tube of vitrified sand, produced by a stroke of lightning; a fulgurite. (b) (Zoöl.) Any tube made of cemented sand. (c) (Zoöl. ) In starfishes, a tube having calcareous particles in its wall, which connects the oral water tube with the madreporic plate.  -- Sand viper. (Zoöl.) See Hognose snake.  -- Sand wasp (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to the families Pompilidæ and Spheridæ, which dig burrows in sand. The female provisions the nest with insects or spiders which she paralyzes by stinging, and which serve as food for her young. 

SANDAL:  Same as Sendal. Sails of silk and ropes of sandal. Longfellow. 

SANDAL:  Sandalwood. "Fans of sandal." Tennyson. 

SANDALIFORM:  Shaped like a sandal or slipper. 

SANDALWOOD:  Realgar; red sulphide of arsenic. [Archaic]  2. (Bot. Chem.)  A white or yellow resin obtained from a Barbary tree (Callitris quadrivalvis or Thuya articulata), and pulverized for pounce; -- probably so called from a resemblance to the mineral. 

SANDBAGGER:  An assaulter whose weapon is a sand bag. See Sand bag, under Sand.  SAND-BLIND Sand"-blind", a. Etym: [For sam blind half blind; AS. sam- half (akin to semi-) + blind.]  Having defective sight; dim-sighted; purblind. Shak. 

SANDEMANIAN:  A follower of Robert Sandeman, a Scotch sectary of the eighteenth century. See Glassite. 

SANDEMANIANISM:  The faith or system of the Sandemanians. A. Fuller. 

SANDERLING:  A small gray and brown sandpiper (Calidris arenaria) very common on sandy beaches in America, Europe, and Asia. Called also curwillet, sand lark, stint, and ruddy plover. 

SANDERS:  An old name of sandalwood, now applied only to the red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.  SANDERS-BLUE San"ders-blue", n.  See Saundersblue. 

SANDEVER:  See Sandiver. [Obs.] 

SANDFISH:  A small marine fish of the Pacific coast of North America (Trichodon trichodon) which buries itself in the sand. 

SANDGLASS:  An instrument for measuring time by the running of sand. See Hourglass. 

SANDHILLER:  A nickname given to any "poor white" living in the pine woods which cover the sandy hills in Georgia and South Carolina. [U.S.] 

SANDINESS:  The quality or state of being sandy, or of being of a sandy color. 

SANDISH:  Approaching the nature of sand; loose; not compact. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

SANDIVER:  A whitish substance which is cast up, as a scum, from the materials of glass in fusion, and, floating on the top, is skimmed off; -- called also glass gall. [Formerly written also sandever.] 

SANDIX:  A kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of lead, but inferior to true minium. [Written also sandyx.] [Obs.]  SAND-LOT Sand"-lot`, a.  Lit., of or pert. to a lot or piece of sandy ground, -- hence, pert. to, or characteristic of, the policy or practices of the socialistic or communistic followers of the Irish agitator Denis Kearney, who delivered many of his speeches in the open sand lots about San Francisco; as, the sand-lot constitution of California, framed in 1879, under the influence of sand-lot agitation. 

SANDMAN:  A mythical person who makes children sleepy, so that they rub their eyes as if there were sand in them. 

SANDNECKER:  A European flounder (Hippoglossoides limandoides); -- called also rough dab, long fluke, sand fluke, and sand sucker. 

SANDPAPER:  Paper covered on one side with sand glued fast, -- used for smoothing and polishing. 

SANDPAPER:  To smooth or polish with sandpaper; as, to sandpaper a door. 

SANDPIPER:  Any one of numerous species of small limicoline game birds belonging to Tringa, Actodromas, Ereunetes, and various allied genera of the family Tringid\'91.  Note: The most important North American species are the pestoral sandpiper (Tringa maculata), called also browback, grass snipe, and jacksnipe; the red-backed, or black-breasted, sandpiper, or dunlin (T. alpina); the purple sandpiper (T.maritima: the red-breasted sandpiper, or knot (T. canutus); the semipalmated sandpiper (Ereunetes pusillus); the spotted sandpiper, or teeter-tail (Actitis macularia); the buff-breasted sandpiper (Tryngites subruficollis), and the Bartramian sandpiper, or upland plover. See under Upland. Among the European species are the dunlin, the knot, the ruff, the sanderling, and the common sandpiper (Actitis, or tringoides, hypoleucus), called also fiddler, peeper, pleeps, weet-weet, and summer snipe. Some of the small plovers and tattlers are also called sandpipers.  2. (Zo\'94l.)  A small lamprey eel; the pride. Curlew sandpiper. See under Curlew.  -- Stilt sandpiper. See under Stilt. 

SANDPIT:  A pit or excavation from which sand is or has been taken. 

SANDRE:  A Russian fish (Lucioperca sandre) which yields a valuable oil, called sandre oil, used in the preparation of caviare. 

SANDSTONE:  A rock made of sand more or less firmly united. Common or siliceous sandstone consists mainly of quartz sand.  Note: Different names are aplied to the various kinds of sandstone according to their composition; as, granitic, argillaceous, micaceous, etc. Flexible sandstone (Min.), the finer-grained variety of itacolumite, which on account of the scales of mica in the lamination is quite flexible.  -- Red sandstone, a name given to two extensive series of British rocks in which red sandstones predominate, one below, and the other above, the coal measures. These were formerly known as the Old and the New Red Sandstone respectively, and the former name is still retained for the group preceding the Coal and referred to the Devonian age, but the term New Red Sandstone is now little used, some of the strata being regarded as Permian and the remained as Triassic. See the Chart of Geology. 

SANDWICH:  Two pieces of bread and butter with a thin slice of meat, cheese, or the like, between them. 

SANDWICH:  To make into a sandwich; also, figuratively, to insert between portions of something dissimilar; to form of alternate parts or things, or alternating layers of a different nature; to interlard. 

SANDWORT:  Any plant of the genus Arenaria, low, tufted herbs (order Caryophyllace\'91.) 

SANDYX:  See Sandix. 

SANENESS:  The state of being sane; sanity. 

SANG:  imp. of Sing.  SANGA; SANGU San"ga, San"gu, n. (Zo\'94l.)  The Abyssinian ox (Bos or Bibos, Africanus), noted for the great length of its horns. It has a hump on its back. 

SANGAREE:  Wine and water sweetened and spiced, -- a favorite West Indian drink.  SANG-FROID Sang`-froid", n. Etym: [F., cold blood.]  Freedom from agitation or excitement of mind; coolness in trying circumstances; indifference; calmness. Burke. 

SANGIAC:  See Sanjak.  SANGRAAL; SANGREAL San`graal", San"gre*al, n. Etym: [See Saint, and Grail.]  See Holy Grail, under Grail. 

SANGUIFEROUS:  Conveying blood; as, sanguiferous vessels, i. e., the arteries, veins, capillaries. 

SANGUIFICATION:  The production of blood; the conversion of the products of digestion into blood; hematosis. 

SANGUIFIER:  A producer of blood. 

SANGUIFLUOUS:  Flowing or running with blood. 

SANGUIFY:  To produce blood from. 

SANGUIGENOUS:  Producing blood; as, sanguigenous food. 

SANGUINACEOUS:  Of a blood-red color; sanguine. 

SANGUINARIA:  A genus of plants of the Poppy family.  Note: Sanguinaria Canadensis, or bloodroot, is the only species. It has a perennial rootstock, which sends up a few roundish lobed leaves and solitary white blossoms in early spring. See Bloodroot.  2. The rootstock of the bloodroot, used in medicine as an emetic, etc. 

SANGUINARILY:  In a sanguinary manner. 

SANGUINARINESS:  The quality or state of being sanguinary. 

SANGUINE:  Bloodstone.  4. Red crayon. See the Note under Crayon, 1. 

SANGUINE:  To stain with blood; to impart the color of blood to; to ensanguine. 

SANGUINE:  In a sanguine manner. I can not speculate quite so sanguinely as he does. Burke. 

SANGUINELESS:  Destitute of blood; pale. [R.] 

SANGUINELY:  In a sanguine manner.  I can not speculate quite so sanguinely as he does. Burke. 

SANGUINENESS:  The quality of being sanguine. 

SANGUINITY:  The quality of being sanguine; sanguineness. Swift. 

SANGUINIVOROUS:  Subsisting on blood. 

SANGUINOLENCY:  The state of being sanguinolent, or bloody. 

SANGUINOLENT:  Tinged or mingled with blood; bloody; as, sanguinolent sputa. 

SANGUISUGE:  A bloodsucker, or leech. 

SANGUIVOROUS:  Subsisting upon blood; -- said of certain blood-sucking bats and other animals. See Vampire.  SANHEDRIN; SANHEDRIM San"he*drin, San"he*drim, n. Etym: [Heb. sanhedrin, fr. Gr. Sit.] (Jewish Antiq.)  the great council of the Jews, which consisted of seventy members, to whom the high priest was added. It had jurisdiction of religious matters. 

SANHEDRIST:  A member of the sanhedrin. Schaeffer (Lange's Com. ). 

SANHITA:  A collection of vedic hymns, songs, or verses, forming the first part of each Veda. 

SANICLE:  Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sanicula, reputed to have healing powers. 

SANIDINE:  A variety of orthoclase feldspar common in certain eruptive rocks, as trachyte; -- called also glassy feldspar. 

SANIES:  A thin, serous fluid commonly discharged from ulcers or foul wounds. 

SANIOUS:  pertaining to sanies, or partaking of its nature and appearance; thin and serous, with a slight bloody tinge; as, the sanious matter of an ulcer.  2. (med.)  Discharging sanies; as, a sanious ulcer. 

SANITARIAN:  Of or pertaining to health, or the laws of health; sanitary. 

SANITARIAN:  An advocate of sanitary measures; one especially interested or versed in sanitary measures. 

SANITARIST:  A sanitarian. 

SANITARIUM:  A health station or retreat; a sanatorium. "A sanitarium for troops." L. Oliphant. 

SANITARY:  Of or pertaining to health; designed to secure or preserve health; relating to the preservation or restoration of health; hygienic; as, sanitary regulations. See the Note under Sanatory. Sanitary Commission. See under Commission. 

SANITATION:  The act of rendering sanitary; the science of sanitary conditions; the preservation of health; the use of sanitary measures; hygiene. How much sanitation has advanced during the last half century. H. Hartshorne. 

SANITY:  The condition or quality of being sane; soundness of health of body or mind, especially of the mind; saneness. 

SANJAK:  A district or a subvision of a vilayet. [Turkey]  SAN JOSE SCALE San Jo*sé" scale.  A very destructive scale insect (Aspidiotus perniciosus) that infests the apple, pear, and other fruit trees. So called because first introduced into the United States at San José, California. 

SANK:  imp. of Sink. 

SANKHA:  A chank shell (Turbinella pyrum); also, a shell bracelet or necklace made in India from the chank shell. 

SANKHYA:  A Hindoo system of philosophy which refers all things to soul and a rootless germ called prakriti, consisting of three elements, goodness, passion, and darkness. Whitworth. 

SANNOP:  same as Sannup. Bancroft. 

SANNUP:  A male Indian; a brave; -- correlative of squaw. 

SANNY:  The sandpiper. [prov. Eng.] 

SANS:  Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an English word. "Sans fail." Chaucer. Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything. Shak. 

SANSCRIT:  See Sanskrit.  SANS-CULOTTE Sans`-cu`lotte" (F. ; E. , n. Etym: [F., without breeches.]  1. A fellow without breeches; a ragged fellow; -- a name of reproach given in the first French revolution to the extreme republican party, who rejected breeches as an emblem peculiar to the upper classes or aristocracy, and adopted pantaloons.  2. Hence, an extreme or radical republican; a violent revolutionist; a Jacobin.  SANS-CULOTTIC Sans`-cu*lot"tic, a.  pertaining to, or involving, sans-culottism; radical; revolutionary; Jacobinical. Carlyle.  SANS-CULOTTISM Sans`-cu*lot"tism, n. Etym: [F. sans-culottisme.]  Extreme republican principles; the principles or practice of the sans-culottes. 

SANSKRIT:  The ancient language of the Hindoos, long since obsolete in vernacular use, but preserved to the present day as the literary and sacred dialect of India. It is nearly allied to the Persian, and to the principal languages of Europe, classical and modern, and by its more perfect preservation of the roots and forms of the primitive language from which they are all descended, is a most important assistance in determining their history and relations. Cf. Prakrit, and Veda. 

SANSKRIT:  Of or pertaining to Sanskrit; written in Sanskrit; as, a Sanskrit dictionary or inscription. 

SANSKRITIC:  Sanskrit. 

SANSKRITIST:  One versed in Sanskrit.  SANS-SOUCI Sans`-sou`ci, adv. Etym: [F.]  Without care; free and easy. 

SANTAL:  A colorless crystalline substance, isomeric with piperonal, but having weak acid properties. It is extracted from sandalwood. 

SANTALACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Santalaceæ), of which the genus Santalum is the type, and which includes the buffalo nut and a few other North American plants, and many peculiar plants of the southern hemisphere. 

SANTALIC:  Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sandalwood (Santalum); -- used specifically to designate an acid obtained as a resinous or red crystalline dyestuff, which is called also santalin. 

SANTALIN:  Santalic acid. See Santalic. 

SANTALUM:  A genus of trees with entire opposite leaves and small apetalous flowers. There are less than a dozen species, occuring from India to Australia and the Pacific Islands. See Sandalwood. 

SANTEES:  One of the seven confederated tribes of Indians belonging to the Sioux, or Dakotas. 

SANTER:  See Saunter. 

SANTON:  A Turkish saint; a kind of dervish, regarded by the people as a saint: also, a hermit. 

SANTONATE:  A salt of santonic acid. 

SANTONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid (distinct from santoninic acid) obtained from santonin as a white crystalline substance. 

SANTONIN:  A white crystalline substance having a bitter taste, extracted from the buds of levant wormseed and used as an anthelmintic. It occassions a peculiar temporary color blindness, causing objects to appear as if seen through a yellow glass. 

SANTONINATE:  A salt of santoninic acid. 

SANTONINIC:  Of or pertaining to santonin; -- used specifically to designate an acid not known in the free state, but obtained in its salts. 

SAO:  Any marine annelid of the genus Hyalinæcia, especially H. tubicola of Europe, which inhabits a transparent movable tube resembling a quill in color and texture. 

SAP:  To pierce with saps.  3. To make unstable or infirm; to unsettle; to weaken. Ring out the grief that saps the mind. Tennyson. 

SAP:  To proceed by mining, or by secretly undermining; to execute saps. W. P. Craighill. Both assaults carried on by sapping. Tatler. 

SAP:  A narrow ditch or trench made from the foremost parallel toward the glacis or covert way of a besieged place by digging under cover of gabions, etc. Sap fagot (Mil.), a fascine about three feet long, used in sapping, to close the crevices between the gabions before the parapet is made.  -- Sap roller (Mil.), a large gabion, six or seven feet long, filled with fascines, which the sapper sometimes rolls along before him for protection from the fire of an enemy. 

SAPADILLO:  See Sapodila. 

SAPAJO:  The sapajou. 

SAPAJOU:  Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Cebus, having long and prehensile tails. Some of the species are called also capuchins. The bonnet sapajou (C. subcristatus), the golden-handed sapajou (C. chrysopus), and the white-throated sapajou (C. hypoleucus) are well known species. See Capuchin.  SAPAN WOOD Sa*pan" wood. Etym: [Malay sapang.] (Bot.)  A dyewood yielded by Cæsalpinia Sappan, a thorny leguminous tree of Southern Asia and the neighboring islands. It is the original Brazil wood. [Written also sappan wood.] 

SAPFUL:  Abounding in sap; sappy. 

SAPHEAD:  A weak-minded, stupid fellow; a milksop. [Low] 

SAPID:  Having the power of affecting the organs of taste; possessing savor, or flavor. Camels, to make the water sapid, do raise the mud with their feet. Sir T. Browne. 

SAPIDITY:  The quality or state of being sapid; taste; savor; savoriness. Whether one kind of sapidity is more effective than another. M. S. Lamson. 

SAPIDNESS:  Quality of being sapid; sapidity. When the Israelites fancied the sapidness and relish of the fleshpots, they longed to taste and to return. Jer. Taylor. 

SAPIENCE:  The quality of being sapient; wisdom; sageness; knowledge. Cowper. Woman, if I might sit beside your feet, And glean your scattered sapience. Tennyson. 

SAPIENT:  Wise; sage; discerning; -- often in irony or contempt. Where the sapient king Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian spouse. Milton.  Syn.  -- Sage; sagacious; knowing; wise; discerning. 

SAPIENTIAL:  Having or affording wisdom.  -- Sa`pi*en"tial*ly, adv. The sapiential books of the Old [Testament]. Jer. Taylor. 

SAPIENTIOUS:  Sapiential. [Obs.] 

SAPIENTIZE:  To make sapient. [R.] Coleridge. 

SAPIENTLY:  In a sapient manner. 

SAPINDACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to an order of trees and shrubs (Sapindaceæ), including the (Typical) genus Sapindus, the maples, the margosa, and about seventy other genera. 

SAPINDUS:  A genus of tropical and subtropical trees with pinnate leaves and panicled flowers. The fruits of some species are used instead of soap, and their round black seeds are made into necklaces. 

SAPLING:  A young tree. Shak. 

SAPODILLA:  A tall, evergeen, tropical American tree (Achras Sapota); also, its edible fruit, the sapodilla plum. [Written also sapadillo, sappadilo, sappodilla, and zapotilla.] Sapodilla plum (Bot.), the fruit of Achras Sapota. It is about the size of an ordinary quince, having a rough, brittle, dull brown rind, the flesh being of a dirty yellowish white color, very soft, and deliciously sweet. Called also naseberry. It is eatable only when it begins to be spotted, and is much used in desserts. 

SAPOGENIN:  A white crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of saponin. 

SAPONACEOUS:  Resembling soap; having the qualities of soap; soapy.  Note: Saponaceous bodies are compounds of an acid and a base, and are in reality a kind of salt. 

SAPONACITY:  The quality or state of being saponaceous. 

SAPONARY:  Saponaceous. Boyle. 

SAPONIFIABLE:  Capable of conversion into soap; as, a saponifiable substance. 

SAPONIFICATION:  The act, process, or result, of soap making; conversion into soap; specifically (Chem.), the decomposition of fats and other ethereal salts by alkalies; as, the saponification of ethyl acetate. 

SAPONIFIER:  That which saponifies; any reagent used to cause saponification. 

SAPONIFY:  To convert into soap, as tallow or any fat; hence (Chem.), to subject to any similar process, as that which ethereal salts undergo in decomposition; as, to saponify ethyl acetate. 

SAPONIN:  A poisonous glucoside found in many plants, as in the root of soapwort (Saponaria), in the bark of soap bark (Quillaia), etc. It is extracted as a white amorphus powder, which occasions a soapy lather in solution, and produces a local anæstesia. Formerly called also struthiin, quilaiin, senegin, polygalic acid, etc. By extension, any one of a group of related bodies of which saponin proper is the type. 

SAPONITE:  A hydrous silicate of magnesia and aluminia. It occurs in soft, soapy, amorphous masses, filling veins in serpentine and cavities in trap rock. 

SAPONUL:  A soapy mixture obtained by treating an essential oil with an alkali; hence, any similar compound of an essential oil. [Written also saponule.] [Obs.] 

SAPOR:  Power of affecting the organs of taste; savor; flavor; taste. There is some sapor in all aliments. Sir T. Browne. 

SAPORIFIC:  Having the power to produce the sensation of taste; producing taste, flavor, or relish. 

SAPOROSITY:  The quality of a body by which it excites the sensation of taste. 

SAPOROUS:  Having flavor or taste; yielding a taste. [R.] Bailey. 

SAPOTA:  The sapodilla. 

SAPOTACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sapotaceæ) of (mostly tropical) trees and shrubs, including the star apple, the Lucuma, or natural marmalade tree, the gutta-percha tree (Isonandra), and the India mahwa, as well as the sapodilla, or sapota, after which the order is named.  SAPPAN WOOD Sap*pan" wood".  Sapan wood. 

SAPPARE:  Kyanite. [Written also sappar.] 

SAPPER:  One who saps; specifically (Mil.), one who is employed in working at saps, building and repairing fortifications, and the like. 

SAPPHIC:  Belonging to, or in the manner of, Sappho; -- said of a certain kind of verse reputed to have been invented by Sappho, consisting of five feet, of which the first, fourth, and fifth are trochees, the second is a spondee, and the third a dactyl. 

SAPPHIC:  A Sapphic verse. 

SAPPHIRE:  Native alumina or aluminium sesquioxide, Al2O3; corundum; esp., the blue transparent variety of corundum, highly prized as a gem. of rubies, sapphires, and of pearlés white. Chaucer.  Note: Sapphire occurs in hexagonal crystals and also in granular and massive forms. The name sapphire is usually restricted to the blue crystals, while the bright red crystals are called Oriental rubies (see under Ruby), the amethystine variety Oriental amethyst (see under Amethyst), and the dull massive varieties corundum (a name which is also used as a general term to include all varieties). See Corundum.  2. The color of the gem; bright blue.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any humming bird of the genus Hylocharis, native of South America. The throat and breast are usually bright blue. Star sapphire, or Asteriated sapphire (Min.), a kind of sapphire which exhibits asterism. 

SAPPHIRE:  Of or resembling sapphire; sapphire; blue. "The sapphire blaze." Gray. 

SAPPHIRINE:  Resembling sapphire; made of sapphire; having the color, or any quality of sapphire. "Sapphirine degree of hardness." Boyle. 

SAPPHO:  Any one of several species of brilliant South American humming birds of the genus Sappho, having very bright-colored and deeply forked tails; -- called also firetail. 

SAPPINESS:  The quality of being sappy; juiciness. 

SAPPODILLA:  See Sapodilla. 

SAPPY:  Abounding in sap; resembling, or consisting lagerly of, sapwood. 

SAPPY:  Musty; tainted. [Obs.] 

SAPROPHAGAN:  One of a tribe of beetles which feed upon dacaying animal and vegetable substances; a carrion beetle. 

SAPROPHAGOUS:  Feeding on carrion. 

SAPROPHYTE:  Any plant growing on dacayed animal or vegetable matter, as most fungi and some flowering plants with no green color, as the Indian pipe. 

SAPROPHYTIC:  Feeding or growing upon decaying anomal or vegetable matter; pertaining to a saprophyte or the saprophytes. 

SAPROPHYTISM:  State or fact of being saprophytic. 

SAPSAGO:  A kind of Swiss cheese, of a greenish color, flavored with melilot. 

SAPSKULL:  A saphead. [Low] 

SAPUCAIA:  A Brazilian tree. See Lecythis, and Monkey-pot. [Written also sapucaya.] Sapucaia nut (Bot.), the seed of the sapucaia; -- called also paradise nut. 

SAPWOOD:  The alburnum, or part of the wood on any exogenous tree next to the bark, being that portion of the tree through which the sap flows most freely; -- distinguished from Heartwood. 

SARABAITE:  One of certain vagrant or heretical Oriental monks in the early church. 

SARABAND:  A slow Spanish dance of Saracenic origin, to an air in triple time; also, the air itself. She has brought us the newest saraband from the court of Queen Mab. Sir W. Scott. 

SARACEN:  Anciently, an Arab; later, a Mussulman; in the Middle Ages, the common term among Christians in Europe for a Mohammedan hostile to the crusaders. Saracen's consound (Bot.), a kind of ragewort (Senecio Saracenicus), anciently used to heal wounds.  SARACENIC; SARACENICAL Sar`a*cen"ic, Sar`a*cen"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the Saracens; as, Saracenic architecture. "Saracenic music." Sir W. Scott. 

SARASIN:  See Sarrasin. 

SARASWATI:  The sakti or wife of Brahma; the Hindoo goddess of learning, music, and poetry. 

SARCASM:  A keen, reproachful expression; a satirical remark uttered with some degree of scorn or contempt; a taunt; a gibe; a cutting jest. The sarcasms of those critics who imagine our art to be a matter of inspiration. Sir J. Reynolds.  Syn.  -- Satire; irony; ridicule; taunt; gibe. 

SARCASMOUS:  Sarcastic. [Obs.] "Sarcasmous scandal." Hubidras.  SARCASTIC; SARCASTICAL Sar*cas"tic, Sar*cas"tic*al, a.  Expressing, or expressed by, sarcasm; characterized by, or of the nature of, sarcasm; given to the use of sarcasm; bitterly satirical; scornfully severe; taunting. What a fierce and sarcastic reprehension would this have drawn from the friendship of the world! South. 

SARCASTICALLY:  In a sarcastic manner. 

SARCEL:  One of the outer pinions or feathers of the wing of a bird, esp. of a hawk. 

SARCELED:  Cut through the middle. 

SARCELLE:  The old squaw, or long-tailed duck. 

SARCENET:  A species of fine thin silk fabric, used for linings, etc. [Written also sarsenet.] Thou green sarcenet flap for a sore eye. Shak. 

SARCIN:  Same as Hypoxanthin. 

SARCINA:  A genus of bacteria found in various organic fluids, especially in those those of the stomach, associated with certain diseases. The individual organisms undergo division along two perpendicular partitions, so that multiplication takes place in two directions, giving groups of four cubical cells. Also used adjectively; as, a sarcina micrococcus; a sarcina group. Sarcina form (Biol.), the tetrad form seen in the division of a dumb-bell group of micrococci into four; -- applied particularly to bacteria. See micrococcus. 

SARCLE:  To weed, or clear of weeds, with a hoe. [Obs.] Ainsworth.  SARCO; SARCO- Sar"co.  A combining form from Gr. flesh; as, sarcophagous, flesh- eating; sarcology. 

SARCOBASIS:  A fruit consisting of many dry indehiscent cells, which contain but few seeds and cohere about a common style, as in the mallows. 

SARCOBLAST:  A minute yellowish body present in the interior of certain rhizopods. 

SARCOCARP:  the fleshy part of a stone fruit, situated between the skin, or epicarp, and the stone, or endocarp, as in a peach. See Illust. of Endocarp.  Note: The term has also been used to denote, any fruit which is fleshy throughout. M. T. Masters. 

SARCOCELE:  Any solid tumor of the testicle.  SARCOCOL; SARCOCOLLA Sar"co*col, Sar`co*col"la, n. Etym: [L. sarcoccolla, from Gr. sacrocolle.]  A gum resin obtained from certain shrubs of Africa (Penæa), -- formerly thought to cause healing of wounds and ulcers. 

SARCODE:  A name applied by Dujardin in 1835 to the gelatinous material forming the bodies of the lowest animals; protoplasm.  SARCODERM; SARCODERMA Sar"co*derm, sar`co*der"ma, n. Etym: [NL. sacroderma. See Sarco-, and Derm.] (Bot.) (a) A fleshy covering of a seed, lying between the external and internal integuments. (b) A sarcocarp. 

SARCODIC:  Of or pertaining to sarcode. 

SARCOID:  Resembling flesh, or muscle; composed of sarcode. 

SARCOLACTIC:  relating to muscle and milk; as, sarcolactic acid. See Lactic acid, under Lactic. 

SARCOLEMMA:  The very thin transparent and apparently homogenous sheath which incloses a striated muscular fiber; the myolemma. 

SARCOLINE:  Flesh-colored.  SARCOLOGIC; SARCOLOGICAL Sar`co*log"ic, Sar`co*log"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to sarcology. 

SARCOLOGY:  That part of anatomy which treats of the soft parts. It includes myology, angiology, neurology, and splanchnology. 

SARCOMA:  A tumor of fleshy consistence; -- formerly applied to many varieties of tumor, now restricted to a variety of malignant growth made up of cells resembling those of fetal development without any proper intercellular substance. 

SARCOMATOUS:  Of or pertaining to sarcoma; resembling sarcoma. 

SARCOPHAGA:  A suborder of carnivorous and insectivorous marsupials including the dasyures and the opossums. 

SARCOPHAGA:  A genus of Diptera, including the flesh flies. 

SARCOPHAGAN:  Any animal which eats flesh, especially any carnivorous marsupial.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any fly of the genus Sarcophaga. 

SARCOPHAGOUS:  Feeding on flesh; flesh-eating; carnivorous. 

SARCOPHAGY:  The practice of eating flesh. 

SARCOPHILE:  A flesh-eating animal, especially any one of the carnivorous marsupials. 

SARCOPTES:  A genus of parasitic mites including the itch mites. 

SARCOPTID:  Any species of the genus Sarcoptes and related genera of mites, comprising the itch mites and mange mites.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to the itch mites. 

SARCORHAMPHI:  A division of raptorial birds composing the vultures. 

SARCOSEPTUM:  One of the mesenteries of an anthozoan. 

SARCOSIN:  A crystalline nitrogenous substance, formed in the decomposition of creatin (one of the constituents of muscle tissue). Chemically, it is methyl glycocoll. 

SARCOTIC:  Producing or promoting the growth of flesh. [R.] -- n.  A sarcotic medicine. [R.] 

SARCOUS:  Fleshy; -- applied to the minute stryctural elements, called sarcous elements, or sarcous disks, of which striated muscular fiber is composed. 

SARCULATION:  A weeding, as with a hoe or a rake. 

SARD:  A variety of carnelian, of a rich reddish yellow or brownish red color. See the Note under Chalcedony. 

SARDACHATE:  A variety of agate containing sard.  SARDAN; SARDEL Sar"dan, Sar"del, n. Etym: [It. sardella. See Sardine a fish.] (Zoöl.)  A sardine. [Obs.] 

SARDEL:  A precious stone. See Sardius. 

SARDINE:  Any one of several small species of herring which are commonly preserved in olive oil for food, especially the pilchard, or European sardine (Clupea pichardus). The California sardine (Clupea sagax) is similar. The American sardines of the Atlantic coast are mostly the young of the common herring and of the menhaden. 

SARDINE:  See Sardius. 

SARDINIAN:  Of or pertaining to the island, kingdom, or people of Sardinia.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Sardinia. 

SARDIUS:  A precious stone, probably a carnelian, one of which was set in Aaron's breastplate. Ex. xxviii. 17. 

SARDOIN:  Sard; carnelian. 

SARDONIAN:  Sardonic. [Obs.] "With Sardonian smile." Spenser. 

SARDONIC:  Forced; unnatural; insincere; hence, derisive, mocking, malignant, or bitterly sarcastic; -- applied only to a laugh, smile, or some facial semblance of gayety. Where strained, sardonic smiles are glozing still, And grief is forced to laugh against her will. Sir H. Wotton. The scornful, ferocious, sardonic grin of a bloody ruffian. Burke. Sardonic grin or laugh, an old medical term for a spasmodic affection of the muscles of the face, giving it an appearance of laughter. 

SARDONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a kind of linen made at Colchis. 

SARDONYX:  A variety of onyx consisting of sard and white chalcedony in alternate layers. 

SAREE:  The principal garment of a Hindoo woman. It consists of a long piece of cloth, which is wrapped round the middle of the body, a portion being arranged to hang down in front, and the remainder passed across the bosom over the left shoulder. 

SARGASSO:  The gulf weed. See under Gulf. Sargasso Sea, a large tract of the North Atlantic Ocean where sargasso in great abundance floats on the surface. 

SARGASSUM:  A genus of algæ including the gulf weed. 

SARGO:  Any one of several species of sparoid fishes belonging to Sargus, Pomodasys, and related genera; -- called also sar, and saragu. 

SARI:  Same as Saree. 

SARIGUE:  A small South American opossum (Didelphys opossum), having four white spots on the face. 

SARK:  A shirt. [Scot.] 

SARK:  To cover with sarking, or thin boards. 

SARKIN:  Same as Hypoxanthin. 

SARKING:  Thin boards for shealting, as above the rafters, and under the shingles or slates, and for similar purposes.  SARLAC; SARLYK Sar"lac, Sar"lyk, n. Etym: [Mongolian sarlyk.] (Zoöl.)  The yak.  SARMATIAN; SARMATIC Sar*ma"tian, Sar*mat"ic, a. Etym: [L. Sarmaticus.]  Of or pertaining to Sarmatia, or its inhabitants, the ancestors of the Russians und the Poles. 

SARMENT:  A prostrate filiform stem or runner, as of the strawbwrry. See Runner. 

SARMENTACEOUS:  Bearing sarments, or runners, as the strawberry. 

SARMENTOUS:  Sarmentose. 

SARN:  A pavement or stepping-stone. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson. 

SARONG:  A sort of petticoat worn by both sexes in Java and the Malay Archipelago. Balfour (Cyc. of India) 

SAROS:  A Chaldean astronomical period or cycle, the length of which has been variously estimated from 3,600 years to 3,600 days, or a little short of 10 years. Brande & C. 

SARPLAR:  A large bale or package of wool, containing eighty tods, or 2,240 pounds, in weight. [Eng.] 

SARPLIER:  A coarse cloth made of hemp, and used for packing goods, etc. [Written also sarpelere.] Tyrwhitt. 

SARPO:  A large toadfish the Southern United States and the Gulf of Mexico (Batrachus tau, var. pardus). 

SARRACENIA:  A genus of American perrenial herbs growing in bogs; the American pitcher plant.  Note: They have hollow pitcher-shaped or tubular leaves, and solitary flowers with an umbrella-shaped style. Sarracenia purpurea, the sidesaddle flower, is common at the North; S. flava, rubra, Drummondii, variolaris, and psittacina are Southern species. All are insectivorous, catching and drowning insects in their curious leaves. See Illust. of Sidesaddle flower, under Sidesaddle.  SARRASIN; SARRASINE Sar"ra*sin, Sar"ra*sine, n. Etym: [F. sarrasine, LL. saracina. See Saracen.] (Fort.)  A portcullis, or herse. [Written also sarasin.] 

SARSA:  Sarsaparilla. [Written also sarza.] 

SARSAPARILLIN:  See Parillin. 

SARSE:  A fine sieve; a searce. [Obs.] 

SARSE:  To sift through a sarse. [Obs.] 

SARSEN:  One of the large sandstone blocks scattered over the English chalk downs; -- called also sarsen stone, and Druid stone. [Eng.] 

SARSENET:  See Sarcenet. 

SART:  An assart, or clearing. [Obs.] Bailey. 

SARTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to thesartorius muscle. 

SARTORIUS:  A muscle of the thigh, called the tailor's muscle, which arises from the hip bone and is inserted just below the knee. So named because its contraction was supposed to produce the position of the legs assumed by the tailor in sitting.  SARUM USE Sa"rum use`. (Ch. of Eng.)  A liturgy, or use, put forth about 1087 by St. Osmund, bishop of Sarum, based on Anglo-Saxon and Norman customs. 

SASH:  A scarf or band worn about the waist, over the shoulder, or otherwise; a belt; a girdle, -- worn by women and children as an ornament; also worn as a badge of distinction by military officers, members of societies, etc. 

SASH:  To adorn with a sash or scarf. Burke. 

SASH:  To furnish with a sash or sashes; as, to sash a door or a window. 

SASHERY:  A collection of sashes; ornamentation by means of sashes. [R.] Distinguished by their sasheries and insignia. Carlyle. 

SASHOON:  A kind of pad worn on the leg under the boot. [Obs.] Nares. 

SASIN:  The Indian antelope (Antilope bezoartica, or cervicapra), noted for its beauty and swiftness. It has long, spiral, divergent horns.  SASSABY; SASSABYE Sas"sa*by, Sas"sa*bye, n. (Zoöl.)  A large African antelope (Alcelaphus tunata), similar to the hartbeest, but having its horns regularly curved. 

SASSAFRAS:  An American tree of the Laurel family (Sassafras officinale); also, the bark of the roots, which has an aromatic smell and taste. Australian sassafras, a lofty tree (Doryophora Sassafras) with aromatic bark and leaves.  -- Chilian sassafras, an aromatic tree (Laurelia sempervirens).  -- New Zealand sassafras, a similar tree (Laurelia Novæ Zelandiæ).  -- Sassafras nut. See Pichurim bean.  -- Swamp sassafras, the sweet bay (Magnolia glauca). See Magnolia. 

SASSANAGE:  Stones left after sifting. Smart. 

SASSARARA:  A word used to emphasize a statement. [Obs.] Out she shall pack, with a sassarara. Goldsmith. 

SASSE:  A sluice or lock, as in a river, to make it more navigable. [Obs.] Pepys. 

SASSENACH:  A Saxon; an Englishman; a Lowlander. [Celtic] Sir W. Scott.  SASSOLIN; SASSOLINE Sas"so*lin, Sas"so*line, n. Etym: [From Sasso, a town in Italy: cf. F. sassolin.] (Min.)  Native boric acid, found in saline incrustations on the borders of hot springs near Sasso, in the territory of Florence.  SASSOROL; SASSOROLLA Sas"so*rol, Sas`so*rol"la, n. (Zoöl.)  The rock pigeon. See under Pigeon.  SASSY BARK Sas"sy bark`. (Bot.)  The bark of a West African leguminous tree (Erythrophlæum Guineense, used by the natives as an ordeal poison, and also medicinally; -- called also mancona bark. 

SASTRA:  Same as Shaster. 

SASTRUGI:  Incorrect, but common, var. of Zastrugi. 

SAT:  imp. of Sit. [Written also sate.] 

SATAN:  The grand adversary of man; The Devil, or Prince of darkness; the chief of the fallen angels; the archfiend. I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Luke x. 18.  SATANIC; SATANICAL Sa*tan"ic, Sa*tan"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. satanique, GR.  Of or pertaining to Satan; having the qualities of Satan; resembling Satan; extremely malicious or wicked; devilish; infernal. "Satanic strength." "Satanic host." Milton. Detest the slander which, with a Satanic smile, exults over the character it has ruined. Dr. T. Dwight. -- Sa*tan"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Sa*tan"ic*al*ness, n. 

SATANISM:  The evil and malicious disposition of Satan; a diabolical sprit. [R.] 

SATANIST:  A very wicked-person. [R.] Granger. 

SATANOPHANY:  An incarnation of Satan; a being possessed by a demon. [R.] O. A. Brownson. 

SATCHEL:  A little sack or bag for carrying papers, books, or small articles of wearing apparel; a hand bag. [Spelled also sachel.] The whining schoolboy with his satchel. Shak. 

SATE:  To satisfy the desire or appetite of; to satiate; to glut; to surfeit. Crowds of wanderers sated with the business and pleasure of great cities. Macaulay. 

SATE:  imp. of Sit. But sate an equal guest at every board. Lowell. 

SATEEN:  A kind of dress goods made of cotton or woolen, with a glossy surface resembling satin. 

SATELESS:  Insatiable. [R.] Young. 

SATELLITE:  A secondary planet which revolves about another planet; as, the moon is a satellite of the earth. See Solar system, under Solar. Satellite moth (Zoöl.), a handsome European noctuid moth (Scopelosoma satellitia). 

SATELLITE:  Situated near; accompanying; as, the satellite veins, those which accompany the arteries. 

SATELLITIOUS:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, satellites. [R.] Cheyne. 

SATHANAS:  Satan. [Obs.] Chaucer. Wyclif. 

SATIATE:  Filled to satiety; glutted; sated; -- followed by with or of. "Satiate of applause." Pope. 

SATIATION:  Satiety. 

SATIETY:  The state of being satiated or glutted; fullness of gratification, either of the appetite or of any sensual desire; fullness beyond desire; an excess of gratification which excites wearisomeness or loathing; repletion; satiation. In all pleasures there is satiety. Hakewill. But thy words, with grace divine Imbued, bring to their sweetness no satiety. Milton.  Syn.  -- Repletion; satiation; surfeit; cloyment. 

SATIN:  A silk cloth, of a thick, close texture, and overshot woof, which has a glossy surface. Cloths of gold and satins rich of hue. Chaucer. Denmark satin, a kind of lasting; a stout worsted stuff, woven with a satin twill, used for women's shoes.  -- Farmer's satin. See under Farmer.  -- Satin bird (Zoöl.), an Australian bower bird. Called also satin grackle.  -- Satin flower (Bot.) See Honesty, 4.  -- Satin spar. (Min.) (a) A fine fibrous variety of calcite, having a pearly luster. (b) A similar variety of gypsum.  -- Satin sparrow (Zoöl.), the shining flycatcher (Myiagra nitida) of Tasmania and Australia. The upper surface of the male is rich blackish green with a metallic luster.  -- Satin stone, satin spar. 

SATINETTE:  One of a breed of fancy frilled pigeons allied to the owls and turbits, having the body white, the shoulders tricolored, and the tail bluish black with a large white spot on each feather.  SATIN WEAVE Sat"in weave.  A style of weaving producing smooth-faced fabric in which the warp interlaces with the filling at points distributed over the surface. 

SATINWOOD:  The hard, lemon-colored, fragrant wood of an East Indian tree (Chloroxylon Swietnia). It takes a lustrous finish, and is used in cabinetwork. The name is also given to the wood of a species of prickly ash (Xanthoxylum Caribæum) growing in Florida and the West Indies. 

SATINY:  Like or composed of satin; glossy; as, to have a satiny appearance; a satiny texture. 

SATION:  A sowing or planting. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SATIRIST:  One who satirizes; especially, one who writes satire. The mighty satirist, who . . . had spread through the Whig ranks. Macaulay. 

SATIRIZE:  To make the object of satire; to attack with satire; to censure with keenness or severe sarcasm. It is as hard to satirize well a man of distinguished vices, as to praise well a man of distinguished virtues. Swift. 

SATISFACTIVE:  Satisfactory. [Obs.] Satisfactive discernment of fish. Sir T. Browne. 

SATISFIABLE:  That may be satisfied. 

SATISFIER:  One who satisfies. 

SATISFYINGLY:  So as to satisfy; satisfactorily. 

SATIVE:  Sown; propagated by seed. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

SATLE:  To settle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SATRAP:  The governor of a province in ancient Persia; hence, a petty autocrat despot. 

SATRAPAL:  Of or pertaining to a satrap, or a satrapy. 

SATRAPESS:  A female satrap. 

SATRAPICAL:  Satrapal. [R.] 

SATRAPY:  The government or jurisdiction of a satrap; a principality. Milton.  SATSUMA WARE Sat"su*ma ware" ( or ). (Fine Arts)  A kind of ornamental hard-glazed pottery made at Satsuma in Kiushu, one of the Japanese islands. 

SATURABLE:  Capable of being saturated; admitting of saturation.  -- Sat`u*ra*bil"i*ty, n. 

SATURANT:  Impregnating to the full; saturating. 

SATURANT:  A substance used to neutralize or saturate the affinity of another substance.  2. (Med.)  An antacid, as magnesia, used to correct acidity of the stomach. 

SATURATE:  To satisfy the affinity of; to cause to become inert by chemical combination with all that it can hold; as, to saturate phosphorus with chlorine. 

SATURATE:  Filled to repletion; saturated; soaked. Dries his feathers saturate with dew. Cowper. The sand beneath our feet is saturate With blood of martyrs. Longfellow. 

SATURATED:  Having its affinity satisfied; combined with all it can hold; - - said of certain atoms, radicals, or compounds; thus, methane is a saturated compound. Contrasted with unsaturated.  Note: A saturated compound may exchange certain ingredients for others, but can not take on more without such exchange. Saturated color (Optics), a color not diluted with white; a pure unmixed color, like those of the spectrum. 

SATURATION:  The act, process, or result of saturating a substance, or of combining it to its fullest extent.  3. (Optics)  Freedom from mixture or dilution with white; purity; -- said of colors.  Note: The degree of saturation of a color is its relative purity, or freedom from admixture with white. 

SATURATOR:  One who, or that which, saturates. 

SATURDAY:  The seventh or last day of the week; the day following Friday and preceding Sunday. 

SATURITY:  The state of being saturated; fullness of supply. [Obs.] Warner. 

SATURN:  One of the elder and principal deities, the son of Coelus and Terra (Heaven and Earth), anf the father of Jupiter. The corresponding Greek divinity was Kro`nos, later CHro`nos, Time.  2. (Astron.)  One of the planets of the solar system, next in magnitude to Jupiter, but more remote from the sun. Its diameter is seventy thousand miles, its mean distance from the sun nearly eight hundred and eighty millions of miles, and its year, or periodical revolution round the sun, nearly twenty-nine years and a half. It is surrounded by a remarkable system of rings, and has eight satellites.  3. (Alchem.)  The metal lead. [Archaic] 

SATURNALIA:  the festival of Saturn, celebrated in December, originally during one day, but afterward during seven days, as a period of unrestrained license and merriment for all classes, extending even to the slaves.  2. Hence: A period or occasion of general licemse, in which the passions or vices have riotous indulgence. 

SATURNIAN:  Of or pertaining to Saturn, whose age or reign, from the mildness and wisdom of his government, is called the golden age.  2. Hence: Resembling the golden age; distinguished for peacefulness, happiness, contentment. Augustus, born to bring Saturnian times. Pope.  3. (Astron.)  Of or pertaining to the planet Saturn; as, the Saturnian year. Saturnian verse (Pros.), a meter employed by early Roman satirists, consisting of three iambics and an extra syllable followed by three trochees, as in the line: --Thê queen | wâs isn | thê kistch | ên eatîng | bread ând | honêy. 

SATURNIAN:  Any one of numerous species of large handsome moths belonging to Saturnia and allied genera. The Luna moth, polyphemus, and promethea, are examples. They belong to the Silkworn family, and some are raised for their silk. See Polyphemus. 

SATURNICENTRIC:  Appearing as if seen from the center of the planet Saturn; relating or referred to Saturn as a center. 

SATURNINE:  Of or pertaining to lead; characterized by, or resembling, lead, which was formerly called Saturn. [Archaic] Saturnine colic (Med.), lead colic. 

SATURNISM:  Plumbum. Quain. 

SATURNIST:  A person of a dull, grave, gloomy temperament. W. browne. 

SATYR:  A sylvan deity or demigod, represented as part man and part goat, and characterized by riotous merriment and lasciviousness. Rough Satyrs danced; and Fauns, with cloven heel, From the glad sound would not be absent long. Milton.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of many species of butterflies belonging to the family Nymphalidæ. Their colors are commonly brown and gray, often with ocelli on the wings. Called also meadow browns.  3. (Zoöl.)  The orangoutang. 

SATYRIASIS:  Immoderate venereal appetite in the male. Quain.  SATYRIC; SATYRICAL Sa*tyr"ic, Sa*tyr"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. satyricus, Gr.  Of or pertaining to satyrs; burlesque; as, satyric tragedy. P. Cyc. 

SATYRION:  Any one of several kinds of orchids. [Obs.]  SAUBA ANT Sau"ba ant`. (Zoöl.)  A South American ant (Ecodoma cephalotes) remarkable for having two large kinds of workers besides the ordinary ones, and for the immense size of its formicaries. The sauba ant cuts off leaves of plants and carries them into its subterranean nests, and thus often does great damage by defoliating trees and cultivated plants. 

SAUCE:  A soft crayon for use in stump drawing or in shading with the stump.  SAUCE-ALONE Sauce"-a*lone`, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)  Jack-by-the-hedge. See under Jack. 

SAUCEBOX:  A saucy, impudent person; especially, a pert child. Saucebox, go, meddle with your lady's fan, And prate not here! A. Brewer. 

SAUCEPAN:  A small pan with a handle, in which sauce is prepared over a fire; a stewpan. 

SAUCILY:  In a saucy manner; impudently; with impertinent boldness. Addison. 

SAUCINESS:  The quality or state of being saucy; that which is saucy; impertinent boldness; contempt of superiors; impudence. Your sauciness will jest upon my love. Shak.  Syn.  -- Impudence; impertinence; rudeness; insolence. see Impudence.  SAUCISSON; SAUCISSE Sau`cis`son", Sau`cisse", n. Etym: [F., fr. saucisse sausage. See Sausage.]  1. (Mining or Gun.)  A long and slender pipe or bag, made of cloth well pitched, or of leather, filled with powder, and used to communicate fire to mines, caissons, bomb chests, etc.  2. (Fort.)  A fascine of more than ordinary length. 

SAUERKRAUT:  Cabbage cut fine and allowed to ferment in a brine made of its own juice with salt, -- a German dish. 

SAUF:  Safe. [Obs.] haucer. 

SAUF:  Save; except. [Obs.] "Sauf I myself." Chaucer. 

SAUFLY:  Safely. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SAUGER:  An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion Canadense); -- called also gray pike, blue pike, hornfish, land pike, sand pike, pickering, and pickerel.  SAUGH; SAUH Saugh, Sauh, obs.  imp. sing. of See. Chaucer. 

SAUKS:  Same as Sacs. 

SAUL:  Soul. [Obs.] 

SAUL:  Same as Sal, the tree. 

SAULIE:  A hired mourner at a funeral. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SAULT:  A rapid in some rivers; as, the Sault Ste. Marie. [U.S.] Bartlett. 

SAUNDERS:  See Sandress.  SAUNDERS-BLUE Saun"ders-blue`, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. F. cendres bleues blue ashes.]  A kind of color prepared from calcined lapis lazuli; ultramarine; also, a blue prepared from carbonate of copper. [Written also sanders-blue.] 

SAUNTER:  To wander or walk about idly and in a leisurely or lazy manner; to lounge; to stroll; to loiter. One could lie under elm trees in a lawn, or saunter in meadows by the side of a stream. Masson.  Syn.  -- To loiter; linger; stroll; wander. 

SAUNTER:  A sauntering, or a sauntering place. That wheel of fops, that saunter of the town. Young. 

SAUNTERER:  One who saunters. 

SAUR:  Soil; dirt; dirty water; urine from a cowhouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

SAUREL:  Any carangoid fish of the genus Trachurus, especially T. trachurus, or T. saurus, of Europe and America, and T. picturatus of California. Called also skipjack, and horse mackarel. 

SAURIA:  A division of Reptilia formerly established to include the Lacertilia, Crocodilia, Dinosauria, and other groups. By some writers the name is restricted to the Lacertilia. 

SAURIAN:  Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, the Sauria.  -- n.  One of the Sauria. 

SAURIOID:  Same as Sauroid. 

SAUROBATRACHIA:  The Urodela. 

SAUROGNATHOUS:  Having the bones of the palate arranged as in saurians, the vomer consisting of two lateral halves, as in the woodpeckers. (Pici). 

SAUROIDICHNITE:  The fossil track of a saurian. 

SAUROPODA:  An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs having the feet of a saurian type, instead of birdlike, as they are in many dinosaurs. It includes the Largest Known land animals, belonging to Brontosaurus, Camarasaurus, and alied genera. See Illustration in Appendix. 

SAUROPSIDA:  A comprehensive group of vertebrates, comprising the reptiles and birds. 

SAUROPTERYGIA:  Same as Plesiosauria. 

SAURURAE:  An extinct order of birds having a long vertebrated tail with quills along each side of it. Archæopteryx is the type. See Archæopteryx, and Odontornithes. 

SAURY:  A slender marine fish (Scombresox saurus) of Europe and America. It has long, thin, beaklike jaws. Called also billfish, gowdnook, gawnook, skipper, skipjack, skopster, lizard fish, and Egypt herring. 

SAUSEFLEM:  Having a red, pimpled face. [Obs.] [Written also sawceflem.] Chaucer. 

SAUSSURITE:  A tough, compact mineral, of a white, greenish, or grayish color. It is near zoisite in composition, and in part, at least, has been produced by the alteration of feldspar.  SAUT; SAUTE Saut, Saute, n.  An assault. [Obs.] 

SAUTE:  p. p. of Sauter. C. Owen. 

SAUTER:  To fry lightly and quickly, as meat, by turning ot tossing it over frequently in a hot pan greased with a little fat. 

SAUTER:  Psalter. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

SAUTERELLE:  An instrument used by masons and others to trace and form angles. 

SAUTERNE:  A white wine made in the district of sauterne, France. 

SAUTRIE:  Psaltery. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SAUVEGARDE:  The monitor. 

SAVABLE:  capable of, or admitting of, being saved. In the person prayed for there ought to be the great disposition of being in a savable condition. Jer. Taylor. 

SAVABLENESS:  Capability of being saved. 

SAVACIOUN:  Salvation. [Obs.] 

SAVAGE:  To make savage. [R.] Its bloodhounds, savaged by a cross of wolf. South 

SAVAGELY:  In a savage manner. 

SAVAGENESS:  The state or quality of being savage. Wolves and bears, they say, Casting their savageness aside have done Like offices of pity. Shak. 

SAVAGISM:  The state of being savage; the state of rude, uncivilized men, or of men in their native wildness and rudeness. 

SAVANILLA:  The tarpum. [Local, U.S.] 

SAVANNA:  A tract of level land covered with the vegetable growth usually found in a damp soil and warm climate, -- as grass or reeds, -- but destitute of trees. [Spelt also savannah.] Savannahs are clear pieces land without woods. Dampier. Savanna flower (Bot.), a West Indian name for several climbing apocyneous plants of the genus Echites.  -- Savanna sparrow (Zoöl.), an American sparrow (Ammodramus sandwichensis or Passerculus savanna) of which several varieties are found on grassy plains from Alaska to the Eastern United States.  -- Savanna wattle (Bot.), a name of two West Indian trees of the genus Citharexylum. 

SAVANT:  A man of learning; one versed in literature or science; a person eminent for acquirements. 

SAVE:  The herb sage, or salvia. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SAVE:  Specifically, to deliver from and its penalty; to rescue from a state of condemnation and spiritual death, and bring into a state of spiritual life. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. 1 Tim. i. 15.  3. To keep from being spent or lost; to secure from waste or expenditure; to lay up; to reserve. Now save a nation, and now save a groat. Pope.  4. To rescue from something undesirable or hurtful; to prevent from doing something; to spare. I'll save you That labor, sir. All's now done. Shak.  5. To hinder from doing, suffering, or happening; to obviate the necessity of; to prevent; to spare. Will you not speak to save a lady's blush Dryden.  6. To hold possession or use of; to escape loss of. Just saving the tide, and putting in a stock of merit. Swift. To save appearance, to preserve a decent outside; to avoid exposure of a discreditable state of things.  Syn.  -- To preserve; rescue; deliver; protect; spare; reserve; prevent. 

SAVE:  To avoid unnecessary expense or expenditure; to prevent waste; to be economical. Brass ordnance saveth in the quantity of the material. Bacon. 

SAVE:  Except; excepting; not including; leaving out; deducting; reserving; saving. Five times received I forty stripes save one. 2 Cor. xi. 24.  Syn.  -- See Except. 

SAVE:  Except; unless. 

SAVEABLE:  See Savable.  SAVE-ALL Save"-all`, n. Etym: [Save + all.]  Anything which saves fragments, or prevents waste or loss. Specifically: (a) A device in a candlestick to hold the ends of candles, so that they be burned. (b) (Naut.) A small sail sometimes set under the foot of another sail, to catch the wind that would pass under it. Totten. (c) A trough to prevent waste in a paper-making machine. 

SAVELOY:  A kind of dried sausage. McElrath. 

SAVELY:  Safely. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SAVEMENT:  The act of saving. [Obs.] 

SAVER:  One who saves.  SAVIN; SAVINE Sav"in, Sav"ine, n. Etym: [OE. saveine, AS. safinæ, savine, L. sabina herba. Cf. Sabine.] [Written also sabine.] (Bot.) (a) A coniferous shrub (Juniperus Sabina) of Western Asia, occasionally found also in the northern parts of the United States and in British America. It is a compact bush, with dark-colored foliage, and produces small berries having a glaucous bloom. Its bitter, acrid tops are sometimes used in medicine for gout, amenorrhoea, etc. (b) The North American red cedar (Juniperus Virginiana.) 

SAVING:  1. Preserving; rescuing. He is the saving strength of his anointed. Ps. xxviii. 8.  2. Avoiding unnecessary expense or waste; frugal; not lavish or wasteful; economical; as, a saving cook.  3. Bringing back in returns or in receipts the sum expended; incurring no loss, though not gainful; as, a saving bargain; the ship has made a saving voyage.  4. Making reservation or exception; as, a saving clause.  Note: saving is often used with a noun to form a compound adjective; as, labor-saving, life-saving, etc. 

SAVING:  With the exception of; except; excepting; also, without disrespect to. "Saving your reverence." Shak. "Saving your presence." Burns. None of us put off clothes, saving that every one put them off for washing. Neh. iv. 23. And in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it. Rev. ii. 17. 

SAVIORESS:  A female savior. [Written also saviouress.] [R.] Bp. Hall. 

SAVORILY:  In a savory manner. 

SAVORINESS:  The quality of being savory. 

SAVORLESS:  Having no savor; destitute of smell or of taste; insipid. 

SAVORLY:  Savory. [Obs.] 

SAVORLY:  In a savory manner. [Obs.] Barrow. 

SAVOROUS:  Having a savor; savory. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

SAVORY:  Pleasing to the organs of taste or smell. [Written also savoury.] The chewing flocks Had ta'en their supper on the savory herb. Milton.  SAVORY; SAVOURY Sa"vo*ry, n. Etym: [F. savorée; cf. It. santoreggia, satureja, L. satureia,] (Bot.)  An aromatic labiate plant (Satireia hortensis), much used in cooking; -- also called summer savory. [Written also savoury.] 

SAVOY:  A variety of the common cabbage (Brassica oleracea major), having curled leaves, -- much cultivated for winter use. 

SAVOYARD:  A native or inhabitant of Savoy.  SAVVY; SAVVEY Sav"vy, Sav"vey, v. t. & i. [Written also savey.] [Sp. saber to know, sabe usted do you know]  To understand; to comprehend; know. [Slang, U. S.]  SAVVY; SAVVEY Sav"vy, Sav"vey, n.  Comprehension; knowledge of affairs; mental grasp. [Slang, U. S.] 

SAW:  imp. of See. 

SAW:  An instrument for cutting or dividing substances, as wood, iron, etc., consisting of a thin blade, or plate, of steel, with a series of sharp teeth on the edge, which remove successive portions of the material by cutting and tearing.  Note: Saw is frequently used adjectively, or as the first part of a compound. Band saw, Crosscut saw, etc. See under Band, Crosscut, etc.  -- Circular saw, a disk of steel with saw teeth upon its periphery, and revolved on an arbor.  -- Saw bench, a bench or table with a flat top for for sawing, especially with a circular saw which projects above the table.  -- Saw file, a three-cornered file, such as is used for sharpening saw teeth.  -- Saw frame, the frame or sash in a sawmill, in which the saw, or gang of saws, is held.  -- Saw gate, a saw frame.  -- Saw gin, the form of cotton gin invented by Eli Whitney, in which the cotton fibers are drawn, by the teeth, of a set of revolving circular saws, through a wire grating which is too fine for the seeds to pass.  -- Saw grass (Bot.), any one of certain cyperaceous plants having the edges of the leaves set with minute sharp teeth, especially the Cladium effusum of the Southern United States. Cf. Razor grass, under Razor.  -- Saw log, a log of suitable size for sawing into lumber.  -- Saw mandrel, a mandrel on which a circular saw is fastened for running.  -- Saw pit, a pit over which timbor is sawed by two men, one standing below the timber and the other above. Mortimer.  -- Saw sharpener (Zoöl.), the great titmouse; -- so named from its harsh call note. [Prov. Eng.] -- Saw whetter (Zoöl.), the marsh titmouse (Parus palustris); -- so named from its call note. [Prov. Eng.] -- Scroll saw, a ribbon of steel with saw teeth upon one edge, stretched in a frame and adapted for sawing curved outlines; also, a machine in which such a saw is worked by foot or power. 

SAW:  See Souari nut. 

SAWBELLY:  The alewife. [Local, U.S.] 

SAWBILL:  The merganser. [Prov. Eng.] 

SAWBONES:  A nickname for a surgeon. 

SAWBUCK:  A sawhorse. 

SAWCEFLEM:  See Sauseflem. [Obs.] 

SAWDER:  A corrupt spelling and pronunciation of solder. Soft sawder, seductive praise; flattery; blarney. [Slang] 

SAWDUST:  Dust or small fragments of wood 9or of stone, etc.) made by the cutting of a saw. 

SAWER:  One who saws; a sawyer. 

SAWFISH:  Any one of several species of elasmobranch fishes of the genus Pristis. They have a sharklike form, but are more nearly allied to the rays. The flattened and much elongated snout has a row of stout toothlike structures inserted along each edge, forming a sawlike organ with which it mutilates or kills its prey. 

SAWFLY:  Any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to the family Tenthredinidæ. The female usually has an ovipositor containing a pair of sawlike organs with which she makes incisions in the leaves or stems of plants in which to lay the eggs. The larvæ resemble those of Lepidoptera. 

SAWHORSE:  A kind of rack, shaped like a double St. Andrew's cross, on which sticks of wood are laid for sawing by hand; -- called also buck, and sawbuck. 

SAWMILL:  A mill for sawing, especially one for sawing timber or lumber. 

SAWNEB:  A merganser. [Prov. Eng.]  SAW PALMETTO Saw" pal*met"to.  See under Palmetto.  SAW-SET Saw"-set`, n.  An instrument used to set or turn the teeth of a saw a little sidewise, that they may make a kerf somewhat wider than the thickness of the blade, to prevent friction; -- called also saw-wrest. 

SAWTOOTH:  An arctic seal (Lobodon carcinophaga), having the molars serrated; -- called also crabeating seal.  SAW-TOOTHED Saw"-toothed", a.  Having a tooth or teeth like those of a saw; serrate. 

SAWTRY:  A psaltery. [Obs.] Dryden.  SAW-WHET saw"-whet`, n. (Zoöl.)  A small North American owl (Nyctale Acadica), destitute of ear tufts and having feathered toes; -- called also Acadian owl.  SAW-WORT Saw"-wort`, n. (Bot.)  Any plant of the composite genus Serratula; -- so named from the serrated leaves of most of the species.  SAW-WREST Saw"-wrest`, n.  See Saw-set. 

SAWYER:  The bowfin. [Local, U.S.] 

SAX:  A kind of chopping instrument for trimming the edges of roofing slates. 

SAXATILE:  Of or pertaining to rocks; living among rocks; as, a saxatile plant. 

SAXHORN:  A name given to a numerous family of brass wind instruments with valves, invented by Antoine Joseph Sax (known as Adolphe Sax), of Belgium and Paris, and much used in military bands and in orchestras. 

SAXICAVA:  Any species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Saxicava. Some of the species are noted for their power of boring holes in limestone and similar rocks. 

SAXICAVID:  Of or pertaining to the saxicavas.  -- n.  A saxicava. 

SAXICAVOUS:  Boring, or hollowing out, rocks; -- said of certain mollusks which live in holes which they burrow in rocks. See Illust. of Lithodomus. 

SAXICOLINE:  Stone-inhabiting; pertaining to, or having the characteristics of, the stonechats. 

SAXICOLOUS:  Growing on rocks. 

SAXIFRAGA:  A genus of exogenous polypetalous plants, embracing about one hundred and eighty species. See Saxifrage. 

SAXIFRAGACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Saxifragaceæ) of which saxifrage is the type. The order includes also the alum root, the hydrangeas, the mock orange, currants and gooseberries, and many other plants. 

SAXIFRAGANT:  Breaking or destroying stones; saxifragous. [R.] -- n.  That which breaks or destroys stones. [R.] 

SAXIFRAGE:  Any plant of the genus Saxifraga, mostly perennial herbs growing in crevices of rocks in mountainous regions. Burnet saxifrage, a European umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella Saxifraga).  -- Golden saxifrage, a low half-sacculent herb (Chrysosplenium oppositifolium) growing in rivulets in Europe; also, C. Americanum, common in the United States. See also under Golden.  -- Meadow saxifrage, or Pepper saxifrage. See under Meadow. 

SAXIFRAGOUS:  Dissolving stone, especially dissolving stone in the bladder. 

SAXON:  Of or pertaining to the Saxons, their country, or their language. (b) Anglo-Saxon. (c) Of or pertaining to Saxony or its inhabitants. Saxon blue (Dyeing), a deep blue liquid used in dyeing, and obtained by dissolving indigo in concentrated sulphuric acid. Brande & C.  -- Saxon green (Dyeing), a green color produced by dyeing with yellow upon a ground of Saxon blue. 

SAXONIC:  relating to the saxons or Anglo-Saxons. 

SAXONISM:  An idiom of the Saxon or Anglo-Saxon language. T. Warton. 

SAXONIST:  One versed in the Saxon language. 

SAXONITE:  See Mountain soap, under Mountain. 

SAXONY:  A fine grade of woolen yarn twisted somewhat harder and smoother than zephyr yarn. 

SAXOPHONE:  A wind instrument of brass, containing a reed, and partaking of the qualities both of a brass instrument and of a clarinet.  SAX-TUBA Sax"-tu`ba, n. Etym: [See Saxhorn, and Tube.] (Mus.)  A powerful instrument of brass, curved somewhat like the Roman buccina, or tuba. 

SAY:  Saw. Chaucer. 

SAY:  To try; to assay. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SAY:  To speak; to express an opinion; to make answer; to reply. You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the forest judge. Shak. To this argument we shall soon have said; for what concerns it us to hear a husband divulge his household privacies Milton. 

SAY:  A speech; something said; an expression of opinion; a current story; a maxim or proverb. [Archaic or Colloq.] He no sooner said out his say, but up rises a cunning snap. L'Estrange. That strange palmer's boding say, That fell so ominous and drear Full on the object of his fear. Sir W. Scott. 

SAYER:  One who says; an utterer. Mr. Curran was something much better than a sayer of smart sayings. Jeffrey. 

SAYETTE:  A mixed stuff, called also sagathy. See Sagathy. 

SAYING:  That which is said; a declaration; a statement, especially a proverbial one; an aphorism; a proverb. Many are the sayings of the wise, In ancient and in modern books enrolled. Milton.  Syn.  -- Declaration; speech; adage; maxim; aphorism; apothegm; saw; proverb; byword. 

SAYMAN:  One who assays. [Obs.] 

SAYMASTER:  A master of assay; one who tries or proves. [Obs.] "Great saymaster of state." D. Jonson. 

SAYND:  obs. p. p. of Senge, to singe. Chaucer.  'SBLOOD 'Sblood, interj.  An abbreviation of God's blood; -- used as an oath. [Obs.] Shak. 

SCAB:  A slight iregular protuberance which defaces the surface of a casting, caused by the breaking away of a part of the mold.  6. A mean, dirty, paltry fellow. [Low] Shak.  7. A nickname for a workman who engages for lower wages than are fixed by the trades unions; also, for one who takes the place of a workman on a strike. [Cant] 

SCAB:  To become covered with a scab; as, the wound scabbed over. 

SCABBARD:  The case in which the blade of a sword, dagger, etc., is kept; a sheath. Nor in thy scabbard sheathe that famous blade. Fairfax. Scabbard fish (Zoöl.), a long, compressed, silver-colored tænioid fish (Lepidopus caudatus, or argyreus), found on the European coasts, and more abundantly about New Zealand, where it is called frostfish and considered an excellent food fish. 

SCABBARD:  To put in a scabbard.  SCABBARD PLANE Scab"bard plane`.  See Scaleboard plane, under Scaleboard. 

SCABBEDNESS:  Scabbiness. 

SCABBILY:  In a scabby manner. 

SCABBINESS:  The quality or state of being scabby. 

SCABBLE:  See Scapple. 

SCABIES:  The itch. 

SCABIOUS:  Consisting of scabs; rough; itchy; leprous; as, scabious eruptions. Arbuthnot. 

SCABIOUS:  Any plant of the genus Scabiosa, several of the species of which are common in Europe. They resemble the Compositæ, and have similar heads of flowers, but the anthers are not connected. Sweet scabious (a) Mourning bride. (b) A daisylike plant (Erigeron annuus) having a stout branching stem. 

SCABLING:  A fragment or chip of stone. [Written also scabline.] 

SCABREDITY:  Roughness; ruggedness. [Obs.] Burton. 

SCABROUSNESS:  The quality of being scabrous. 

SCABWORT:  Elecampane. 

SCAFFOLD:  An accumulation of adherent, partly fused material forming a shelf, or dome-shaped obstruction, above the tuyères in a blast furnace. 

SCAFFOLD:  To furnish or uphold with a scaffold. 

SCAFFOLDAGE:  A scaffold. [R.] Shak. 

SCAGLIA:  A reddish variety of limestone. 

SCAGLIOLA:  An imitation of any veined and ornamental stone, as marble, formed by a substratum of finely ground gypsum mixed with glue, the surface of which, while soft, is variegated with splinters of marble, spar, granite, etc., and subsequently colored and polished. 

SCALA:  A machine formerly employed for reducing dislocations of the humerus.  2. (Anat.)  A term applied to any one of the three canals of the cochlea. 

SCALABLE:  Capable of being scaled.  SCALADE; SCALADO Sca*lade", Sca*la"do, n. (Mil.)  See Escalade. Fairfax. 

SCALAR:  In the quaternion analysis, a quantity that has magnitude, but not direction; -- distinguished from a vector, which has both magnitude and direction. 

SCALARIA:  Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods of the genus Scalaria, or family Scalaridæ, having elongated spiral turreted shells, with rounded whorls, usually crossed by ribs or varices. The color is generally white or pale. Called also ladder shell, and wentletrap. See Ptenoglossa, and Wentletrap. 

SCALARIFORM:  Like or pertaining to a scalaria. 

SCALARY:  Resembling a ladder; formed with steps. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SCALAWAG:  A scamp; a scapegrace. [Spelt also scallawag.] [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett. 

SCALD:  A burn, or injury to the skin or flesh, by some hot liquid, or by steam. 

SCALD:  Scurf on the head. See Scall. Spenser. 

SCALD:  One of the ancient Scandinavian poets and historiographers; a reciter and singer of heroic poems, etc., among the Norsemen; more rarely, a bard of any of the ancient Teutonic tribes. [Written also skald.] A war song such as was of yore chanted on the field of battle by the scalds of the yet heathen Saxons. Sir W. Scott. 

SCALDER:  A Scandinavian poet; a scald. 

SCALDFISH:  A European flounder (Arnoglosus laterna, or Psetta arnoglossa); -- called also megrin, and smooth sole. 

SCALDIC:  Of or pertaining to the scalds of the Norsemen; as, scaldic poetry. 

SCALE:  The sign or constellation Libra. Platform scale. See under Platform. tip the scales, influence an action so as to change an outcome from one likely result to another. 

SCALE:  To weigh or measure according to a scale; to measure; also, to grade or vary according to a scale or system. Scaling his present bearing with his past. Shak. To scale, or scale down, a debt, wages, etc., to reduce a debt, etc., according to a fixed ratio or scale. [U.S.] 

SCALE:  One of the small, thin, membranous, bony or horny pieces which form the covering of many fishes and reptiles, and some mammals, belonging to the dermal part of the skeleton, or dermoskeleton. See Cycloid, Ctenoid, and Ganoid. Fish that, with their fins and shining scales, Glide under the green wave. Milton.  2. Hence, any layer or leaf of metal or other material, resembling in size and thinness the scale of a fish; as, a scale of iron, of bone, etc.  3. (Zoöl.)  One of the small scalelike structures covering parts of some invertebrates, as those on the wings of Lepidoptera and on the body of Thysanura; the elytra of certain annelids. See Lepidoptera.  4. (Zoöl.)  A scale insect. (See below.)  5. (Bot.)  A small appendage like a rudimentary leaf, resembling the scales of a fish in form, and often in arrangement; as, the scale of a bud, of a pine cone, and the like. The name is also given to the chaff on the stems of ferns.  6. The thin metallic side plate of the handle of a pocketknife. See Illust. of Pocketknife.  7. An incrustation deposit on the inside of a vessel in which water is heated, as a steam boiler.  8. (Metal.)  The thin oxide which forms on the surface of iron forgings. It consists esentially of the magnetic oxide, Fe3O4. Also, a similar coating upon other metals. Covering scale (Zoöl.), a hydrophyllium.  -- Ganoid scale (Zoöl.) See under Ganoid.  -- Scale armor (Mil.), armor made of small metallic scales overlapping, and fastened upon leather or cloth.  -- Scale beetle (Zoöl.), the tiger beetle.  -- Scale carp (Zoöl.), a carp having normal scales.  -- Scale insect (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small hemipterous insects belonging to the family Coccidæ, in which the females, when adult, become more or less scalelike in form. They are found upon the leaves and twigs of various trees and shrubs, and often do great damage to fruit trees. See Orange scale,under Orange.  -- Scale moss (Bot.), any leafy-stemmed moss of the order Hepaticæ; -- so called from the small imbricated scalelike leaves of most of the species. See Hepatica, 2, and Jungermannia. 

SCALE:  To clean, as the inside of a cannon, by the explosion of a small quantity of powder. Totten. 

SCALE:  To climb by a ladder, or as if by a ladder; to ascend by steps or by climbing; to clamber up; as, to scale the wall of a fort. Oft have I scaled the craggy oak. Spenser. 

SCALE:  To lead up by steps; to ascend. [Obs.] Satan from hence, now on the lower stair, That scaled by steps of gold to heaven-gate, Looks down with wonder. Milton. 

SCALEBACK:  Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family Polynoidæ, and allies, which have two rows of scales, or elytra, along the back. See Illust. under Chætopoda. 

SCALEBOARD:  A thin slip of wood used to justify a page. [Obs.] Crabb.  2. A thin veneer of leaf of wood used for covering the surface of articles of firniture, and the like. Scaleboard plane, a plane for cutting from a board a wide shaving forming a scaleboard. 

SCALED:  Having feathers which in form, color, or arrangement somewhat resemble scales; as, the scaled dove. Scaled dove (Zoöl.), any American dove of the genus Scardafella. Its colored feather tips resemble scales. 

SCALELESS:  Destitute of scales. 

SCALENE:  A triangle having its sides and angles unequal. 

SCALENOHEDRAL:  Of or pertaining to a scalenohedron. 

SCALENOHEDRON:  A pyramidal form under the rhombohedral system, inclosed by twelve faces, each a scalene triangle. 

SCALER:  One who, or that which, scales; specifically, a dentist's instrument for removing tartar from the teeth.  SCALE-WINGED Scale"-winged`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the wings covered with small scalelike structures, as the lepidoptera; scaly-winged. 

SCALINESS:  The state of being scaly; roughness. 

SCALIOLA:  Same as Scagliola. 

SCALL:  A scurf or scabby disease, especially of the scalp. It is a dry scall, even a leprosy upon the head. Lev. xiii. 30. 

SCALL:  Scabby; scurfy. [Obs.] Shak. 

SCALLED:  Scabby; scurfy; scall. [Obs.] "With scalled brows black." Chaucer. Scalled head. (Med.) See Scald head, under Scald, a. 

SCALLION:  A kind of small onion (Allium Ascalonicum), native of Palestine; the eschalot, or shallot.  2. Any onion which does not "bottom out," but remains with a thick stem like a leek. Amer. Cyc. 

SCALLOP:  Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pecten and allied genera of the family Pectinidæ. The shell is usually radially ribbed, and the edge is therefore often undulated in a characteristic manner. The large adductor muscle of some the species is much used as food. One species (Vola Jacobæus) occurs on the coast of Palestine, and its shell was formerly worn by pilgrims as a mark that they had been to the Holy Land. Called also fan shell. See Pecten, 2.  Note: The common edible scallop of the Eastern United States is Pecten irradians; the large sea scallop, also used as food, is P. Clontonius, or tenuicostastus.  2. One of series of segments of circles joined at their extremities, forming a border like the edge or surface of a scallop shell.  3. One of the shells of a scallop; also, a dish resembling a scallop shell. 

SCALLOP:  To bake in scallop shells or dishes; to prepare with crumbs of bread or cracker, and bake. See Scalloped oysters, below. 

SCALLOPED:  Baked in a scallop; cooked with crumbs. Scalloped oysters (Cookery), opened oysters baked in a deep dish with alternate layers of bread or cracker crumbs, seasoned with pepper, nutmeg, and butter. This was at first done in scallop shells. 

SCALLOPER:  One who fishes for scallops. 

SCALLOPING:  Fishing for scallops. 

SCALP:  A bed of oysters or mussels. [Scot.] 

SCALP:  To remove the skin of. We must scalp the whole lid [of the eye]. J. S. Wells.  3. (Milling.)  To brush the hairs of fuzz from, as wheat grains, in the process of high milling. Knight. 

SCALP:  To make a small, quick profit by slight fluctuations of the market; -- said of brokers who operate in this way on their own account. [Cant] 

SCALPEL:  A small knife with a thin, keen blade, -- used by surgeons, and in dissecting. 

SCALPER:  Same as Scalping iron, under Scalping.  3. A broker who, dealing on his own account, tries to get a small and quick profit from slight fluctuations of the market. [Cant]  4. A person who buys and sells the unused parts of railroad tickets. [Cant] 

SCALPING:  a. & n. from Scalp. Scalping iron (Surg.), an instrument used in scraping foul and carious bones; a raspatory.  -- Scalping knife, a knife used by north American Indians in scalping. 

SCALPRIFORM:  Shaped like a chisel; as, the scalpriform incisors of rodents. 

SCALY:  Composed of scales lying over each other; as, a scaly bulb; covered with scales; as, a scaly stem. Scaly ant-eater (Zoöl.), the pangolin.  SCALY-WINGED Scal"y-winged`, a. (Zoöl.)  Scale-winged. 

SCAMBLE:  To mangle. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

SCAMBLER:  1. One who scambles.  2. A bold intruder upon the hospitality of others; a mealtime visitor. [Scot.] 

SCAMBLINGLY:  In a scambling manner; with turbulence and noise; with bold intrusiveness.  SCAMELL; SCAMMEL Scam"ell, or; Scam"mel, n. (Zoöl.)  The female bar-tailed godwit. [Prov. Eng.]  Note: Whether this is the scamel mentioned by Shakespeare ["Tempest," ii. 2] is not known. 

SCAMILLUS:  A sort of second plinth or block, below the bases of Ionic and Corinthian columns, generally without moldings, and of smaller size horizontally than the pedestal. 

SCAMMONIATE:  Made from scammony; as, a scammoniate aperient. 

SCAMMONY:  A species of bindweed or Convolvulus (C. Scammonia).  2. An inspissated sap obtained from the rot of the Convolvulus Scammonia, of a blackish gray color, a nauseous smell like that of old cheese, and a somewhat acrid taste. It is used in medicine as a cathartic. 

SCAMP:  A rascal; a swindler; a rogue. De Quincey. 

SCAMP:  To perform in a hasty, neglectful, or imperfect manner; to do superficially. [Colloq.] A workman is said to scamp his work when he does it in a superficial, dishonest manner. Wedgwood. Much of the scamping and dawdling complained of is that of men in establishments of good repute. T. Hughes. 

SCAMPAVIA:  A long, low war galley used by the Neapolitans and Sicilians in the early part of the nineteenth century. 

SCAMPER:  To run with speed; to run or move in a quick, hurried manner; to hasten away. Macaulay. The lady, however, . . . could not help scampering about the room after a mouse. S. Sharpe. 

SCAMPER:  A scampering; a hasty flight. 

SCAMPERER:  One who scampers. Tyndell. 

SCAMPISH:  Of or like a scamp; knavish; as, scampish conduct. 

SCANDAL:  Anything alleged in pleading which is impertinent, and is reproachful to any person, or which derogates from the dignity of the court, or is contrary to good manners. Daniell.  Syn.  -- Defamation; detraction; slander; calumny; opprobrium; reproach; shame; disgrace. 

SCANDALOUSNESS:  Quality of being scandalous.  SCANDALUM MAGNATUM Scan"da*lum mag*na"tum`. Etym: [L., scandal of magnates.] (Law)  A defamatory speech or writing published to the injury of a person of dignity; -- usually abbreviated scan. mag. 

SCANDENT:  Climbing.  Note: Scandent plants may climb either by twining, as the hop, or by twisted leafstalks, as the clematis, or by tendrils, as the passion flower, or by rootlets, as the ivy. 

SCANDIA:  A chemical earth, the oxide of scandium. 

SCANDIC:  Of or pertaining to scandium; derived from, or containing, scandium. 

SCANDINAVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Scandinavia, that is, Sweden, Norway, and Denmark.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Scandinavia. 

SCANDIUM:  A rare metallic element of the boron group, whose existence was predicated under the provisional name ekaboron by means of the periodic law, and subsequently discovered by spectrum analysis in certain rare Scandinavian minerals (euxenite and gadolinite). It has not yet been isolated. Symbol Sc. Atomic weight 44 

SCANSION:  The act of scanning; distinguishing the metrical feet of a verse by emphasis, pauses, or otherwise. 

SCANSORES:  An artifical group of birds formerly regarded as an order. They are distributed among several orders by modern ornithologists.  Note: The toes are in pairs, two before and two behind, by which they are enabled to cling to, and climb upon, trees, as the woodpeckers, parrots, cuckoos, and trogons. See Illust. under Aves. 

SCANT:  To fail, of become less; to scantle; as, the wind scants. 

SCANT:  In a scant manner; with difficulty; scarcely; hardly. [Obs.] Bacon. So weak that he was scant able to go down the stairs. Fuller. 

SCANT:  Scantness; scarcity. [R.] T. Carew. 

SCANTILY:  In a scanty manner; not fully; not plentifully; sparingly; parsimoniously. His mind was very scantily stored with materials. Macaulay. 

SCANTINESS:  Quality condition of being scanty. 

SCANTLE:  To be deficient; to fail. [Obs.] Drayton. 

SCANTLE:  To scant; to be niggard of; to divide into small pieces; to cut short or down. [Obs.] All their pay Must your discretion scantle; keep it back. J. Webster. 

SCANTLET:  A small pattern; a small quantity. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

SCANTLING:  Not plentiful; small; scanty. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

SCANTNESS:  The quality or condition of being scant; narrowness; smallness; insufficiency; scantiness. "Scantness of outward things." Barrow. 

SCAPE:  A peduncle rising from the ground or from a subterranean stem, as in the stemless violets, the bloodroot, and the like.  2. (Zoöl.)  The long basal joint of the antennæ of an insect.  3. (Arch.) (a) The shaft of a column. (b) The apophyge of a shaft. 

SCAPE:  To escape. [Obs. or Poetic.] Milton. Out of this prison help that we may scape. Chaucer. 

SCAPEGALLOWS:  One who has narrowly escaped the gallows for his crimes. [Colloq.] Dickens. 

SCAPEGOAT:  A goat upon whose head were symbolically placed the sins of the people, after which he was suffered to escape into the wilderness. Lev. xvi. 10.  2. Hence, a person or thing that is made to bear blame for others. Tennyson. 

SCAPEGRACE:  A graceless, unprincipled person; one who is wild and reckless. Beaconsfield. 

SCAPELESS:  Destitute of a scape. 

SCAPEMENT:  Same as Escapement, 3.  SCAPE-WHEEL Scape"-wheel`, n. (Horol.)  the wheel in an escapement (as of a clock or a watch) into the teeth of which the pallets play. 

SCAPHANDER:  The case, or impermeable apparel, in which a diver can work while under water. 

SCAPHISM:  An ancient mode of punishing criminals among the Persians, by confining the victim in a trough, with his head and limbs smeared with honey or the like, and exposed to the sun and to insects until he died. 

SCAPHITE:  Any fossil cephalopod shell of the genus Scaphites, belonging to the Ammonite family and having a chambered boat-shaped shell. Scaphites are found in the Cretaceous formation. 

SCAPHOCEPHALIC:  Of, pertaining to, or affected with, scaphocephaly. 

SCAPHOCEPHALY:  A deformed condition of the skull, in which the vault is narrow, clongated, and more or less boat-shaped. 

SCAPHOCERITE:  A flattened plate or scale attached to the second joint of the antennæ of many Crustacea. 

SCAPHOGNATHITE:  A thin leafike appendage (the exopodite) of the second maxilla of decapod crustaceans. It serves as a pumping organ to draw the water through the gill cavity. 

SCAPHOID:  Resembling a boat in form; boat-shaped.  -- n.  The scaphoid bone. Scaphoid bone (a) One of the carpal bones, which articulates with the radius; the radiale. (b) One of the tarsal bones; the navicular bone. See under Navicular. 

SCAPHOLUNAR:  Of or pertaining to the scaphoid and lunar bones of the carpus.  -- n.  The scapholunar bone. Scapholunar bone, a bone formed by the coalescence of the scaphoid and lunar in the carpus of carnivora. 

SCAPHOPODA:  A class of marine cephalate Mollusca having a tubular shell open at both ends, a pointed or spadelike foot for burrowing, and many long, slender, prehensile oral tentacles. It includes Dentalium, or the tooth shells, and other similar shells. Called also Prosopocephala, and Solenoconcha. 

SCAPIFORM:  Resembling scape, or flower stm. 

SCAPOLITE:  A grayish white mineral occuring in tetragonal crystals and in cleavable masses. It is esentially a silicate of aluminia and soda.  Note: The scapolite group includes scapolite proper, or wernerite, also meionite, dipyre, etc. 

SCAPULA:  The principal bone of the shoulder girdle in mammals; the shoulder blade.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the plates from which the arms of a crinoid arise. 

SCAPULAR:  Of or pertaining to the scapula or the shoulder Scapular arch (Anat.), the pectoral arch. See under pectoral.  -- Scapular region, or Scapular tract (Zoöl.), a definite longitudinal area over the shoulder and along each side of the back of a bird, from which the scapular feathers arise. 

SCAPULAR:  One of a special group of feathers which arise from each of the scapular regions and lie along the sides of the back.  SCAPULAR; SCAPULARY Scap"u*lar, Scap"u*la*ry, n. Etym: [F. scapulaire, LL. scapularium, scapulare, fr. L.scapula shoulder blade.]  1. (R.C.Ch.) (a) A loose sleeveless vestment falling in front and behind, worn by certain religious orders and devout persons. (b) The name given to two pieces of cloth worn under the ordinary garb and over the shoulders as an act of devotion. Addis & Arnold.  2. (Surg.)  A bandage passing over the shoulder to support it, or to retain another bandage in place. 

SCAPULARY:  Same as Scapular, a. 

SCAPULARY:  Same as 2d and 3d Scapular. 

SCAPULET:  A secondary mouth fold developed at the base of each of the armlike lobes of the manubrium of many rhizostome medusæ. See Illustration in Appendix.  SCAPULO- Scap"u*lo- (.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the scapula or the shoulder; as, the scapulo- clavicular articulation, the articulation between the scapula and clavicle. 

SCAPUS:  See 1st Scape. 

SCAR:  A mark left upon a stem or branch by the fall of a leaf, leaflet, or frond, or upon a seed by the separation of its support. See Illust. under Axillary. 

SCAR:  To mark with a scar or scars. Yet I'll not shed her blood; Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow. Shak. His cheeks were deeply scarred. Macaulay. 

SCAR:  To form a scar. 

SCAR:  An isolated or protruding rock; a steep, rocky eminence; a bare place on the side of a mountain or steep bank of earth. [Written also scaur.] O sweet and far, from cliff and scar, The horns of Elfland faintly blowing. Tennyson. 

SCAR:  A marine food fish, the scarus, or parrot fish.  SCARAB; SCARABEE Scar"ab, Scar"a*bee, n. Etym: [L. scarabeus; cf. F. scarabée.] (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of lamellicorn beetles of the genus Scarabæus, or family Scarabæidæ, especially the sacred, or Egyptian, species (Scarabæus sacer, and S. Egyptiorum). 

SCARABAEUS:  Same as Scarab. 

SCARABOID:  Of or pertaining to the family Scarabæidæ, an extensive group which includes the Egyptian scarab, the tumbleding, and many similar lamellicorn beetles. 

SCARABOID:  A scaraboid beetle. 

SCARAMOUCH:  A personage in the old Italian comedy (derived from Spain) characterized by great boastfulness and poltroonery; hence, a person of like characteristics; a buffoon. 

SCARCEMENT:  An offset where a wall or bank of earth, etc., retreats, leaving a shelf or footing.  SCARCENESS; SCARCITY Scarce"ness, Scar"ci*ty, n.  The quality or condition of being scarce; smallness of quantity in proportion to the wants or demands; deficiency; lack of plenty; short supply; penury; as, a scarcity of grain; a great scarcity of beauties. Chaucer. A scarcity of snow would raise a mutiny at Naples. Addison. Praise . . . owes its value to its scarcity. Rambler. The value of an advantage is enhanced by its scarceness. Collier.  Syn.  -- Deficiency; lack; want; penury; dearth; rareness; rarity; infrequency. 

SCARD:  A shard or fragment. [Obs.] 

SCARE:  To frighten; to strike with sudden fear; to alarm. The noise of thy crossbow Will scare the herd, and so my shoot is lost. Shak. To scare away, to drive away by frightening.  -- To scare up, to find by search, as if by beating for game. [Slang]  Syn.  -- To alarm; frighten; startle; affright; terrify. 

SCARE:  Fright; esp., sudden fright produced by a trifling cause, or originating in mistake. [Colloq.] 

SCARECROW:  The black tern. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCARF:  A cormorant. [Scot.] 

SCARF:  An article of dress of a light and decorative character, worn loosely over the shoulders or about the neck or the waist; a light shawl or handkerchief for the neck; also, a cravat; a neckcloth. Put on your hood and scarf. Swift. With care about the banners, scarves, and staves. R. Browning. 

SCARFSKIN:  See Epidermis. 

SCARIFICATION:  The act of scarifying. 

SCARIFICATOR:  An instrument, principally used in cupping, containing several lancets moved simultaneously by a spring, for making slight incisions. 

SCARIFIER:  The instrument used for scarifying.  3. (Agric.)  An implement for stripping and loosening the soil, without bringing up a fresh surface. You have your scarifiers to make the ground clean. Southey. 

SCARIFY:  To stir the surface soil of, as a field.  SCARIOSE; SCARIOUS Sca"ri*ose, Sca"ri*ous, a. Etym: [F. scarieux, NL. scariosus. Cf. Scary.] (Bot.)  Thin, dry, membranous, and not green. Gray. 

SCARLATINA:  Scarlet fever.  -- Scar`la*ti"nal, a.  -- Scar*lat"i*nous (# or #), a. 

SCARLESS:  Free from scar. Drummond. 

SCARLET:  A deep bright red tinged with orange or yellow, -- of many tints and shades; a vivid or bright red color.  2. Cloth of a scarlet color. All her household are clothed with scarlet. Prov. xxxi. 21. 

SCARLET:  Of the color called scarlet; as, a scarlet cloth or thread. Scarlet admiral (Zoöl.), the red admiral. See under Red.  -- Scarlet bean (Bot.), a kind of bean (Phaseolus multiflorus) having scarlet flowers; scarlet runner.  -- Scarlet fever (Med.), a contagious febrile disease characterized by inflammation of the fauces and a scarlet rash, appearing usually on the second day, and ending in desquamation about the sixth or seventh day.  -- Scarlet fish (Zoöl.), the telescope fish; -- so called from its red color. See under Telescope.  -- Scarlet ibis (Zoöl.) See under Ibis.  -- Scarlet maple (Bot.), the red maple. See Maple.  -- Scarlet mite (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of bright red carnivorous mites found among grass and moss, especially Thombidium holosericeum and allied species. The young are parasitic upon spiders and insects.  -- Scarlet oak (Bot.), a species of oak (Quercus coccinea) of the United States; -- so called from the scarlet color of its leaves in autumn.  -- Scarlet runner (Bot.), the scarlet bean.  -- Scarlet tanager. (Zoöl.) See under Tanager. 

SCARLET:  To dye or tinge with scarlet. [R.] The ashy paleness of my cheek Is scarleted in ruddy flakes of wrath. Ford.  SCARMAGE; SCARMOGE Scar"mage, Scar"moge, n.  A slight contest; a skirmish. See Skirmish. [Obs.] Such cruel game my scarmoges disarms. Spenser. 

SCARN:  Dung. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray. Scarn bee (Zoöl.), a dung beetle. 

SCAROID:  Of or pertaining to the Scaridæ, a family of marine fishes including the parrot fishes. 

SCARP:  A band in the same position as the bend sinister, but only half as broad as the latter. 

SCARP:  The slope of the ditch nearest the parapet; the escarp.  2. A steep descent or declivity. 

SCARP:  To cut down perpendicularly, or nearly so; as, to scarp the face of a ditch or a rock. From scarped cliff and quarried stone. Tennyson. Sweep ruins from the scarped mountain. Emerson. 

SCARRING:  A scar; a mark. We find upon the limestone rocks the scarrings of the ancient glacier which brought the bowlder here. Tyndall. 

SCARRY:  Bearing scars or marks of wounds. 

SCARRY:  Like a scar, or rocky eminence; containing scars. Holinshed. 

SCARUS:  A Mediterranean food fish (Sparisoma scarus) od excellent quality and highly valued by the Romans; -- called also parrot fish. 

SCARY:  Barren land having only a thin coat of grass. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCASELY:  Scarcely; hardly. [Obs. or Colloq.] Robynson (More's Utopia) 

SCAT:  Go away; begone; away; -- chiefly used in driving off a cat.  SCAT; SCATT Scat, Scatt, n. Etym: [Icel. scattr.]  Tribute. [R.] "Seizing scatt and treasure." Longfellow. 

SCAT:  A shower of rain. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

SCATCH:  A kind of bit for the bridle of a horse; -- called also scatchmouth. Bailey. 

SCATCHES:  Stilts. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCATE:  See Skate, for the foot. 

SCATEBROUS:  Abounding with springs. [Obs.] 

SCATH:  Harm; damage; injury; hurt; waste; misfortune. [Written also scathe.] But she was somedeal deaf, and that was skathe. Chaucer. Great mercy, sure, for to enlarge a thrall, Whose freedom shall thee turn to greatest scath. Spenser. Wherein Rome hath done you any scath, Let him make treble satisfaction. Shak.  SCATHE; SCATH Scathe, Scath, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scathed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scathing.] Etym: [Icel. skatha; akin to AS. sceathan, sceth\'eban, Dan. skade, Sw. skada, D. & G. schaden, OHG. scadon, Goth. skaÞjan.]  To do harm to; to injure; to damage; to waste; to destroy. As when heaven's fire Hath scathed the forest oaks or mountain pines. Milton. Strokes of calamity that scathe and scorch the soul. W. Irwing. 

SCATHFUL:  Harmful; doing damage; pernicious. Shak.  -- Scath"ful*ness, n. 

SCATHLESS:  Unharmed. R. L. Stevenson. He, too, . . . is to be dismissed scathless. Sir W. Scott. 

SCATHLY:  Injurious; scathful. [Obs.] 

SCATTER:  To be dispersed or dissipated; to disperse or separate; as, clouds scatter after a storm.  SCATTER-BRAIN Scat"ter-brain`, n.  A giddy or thoughtless person; one incapable of concentration or attention. [Written also scatter-brains.]  SCATTER-BRAINED Scat"ter-brained`, a.  Giddy; thoughtless. 

SCATTERED:  Irregular in position; having no regular order; as, scattered leaves.  -- Scat"tered*ly, adv.  -- Scat"tered*ness, n. 

SCATTERGOOD:  One who wastes; a spendthrift. 

SCATTERING:  Going or falling in various directions; not united or agregated; divided among many; as, scattering votes. 

SCATTERING:  Act of strewing about; something scattered. South. 

SCATTERINGLY:  In a scattering manner; dispersedly. 

SCATTERLING:  One who has no fixed habitation or residence; a vagabond. [Obs.] "Foreign scatterlings." Spenser. 

SCATURIENT:  Gushing forth; full to overflowing; effusive. [R.] A pen so scaturient and unretentive. Sir W. Scott. 

SCATURIGINOUS:  Abounding with springs. [Obs.] 

SCAUP:  A scaup duck. See below. Scaup duck (Zoöl.), any one of several species of northern ducks of the genus Aythya, or Fuligula. The adult males are, in large part, black. The three North American species are: the greater scaup duck (Aythya marila, var. nearctica), called also broadbill, bluebill, blackhead, flock duck, flocking fowl, and raft duck; the lesser scaup duck (A. affinis), called also little bluebill, river broadbill, and shuffler; the tufted, or ring-necked, scaup duck (A. collaris), called also black jack, ringneck, ringbill, ringbill shuffler, etc. See Illust. of Ring-necked, under Ring- necked. The common European scaup, or mussel, duck (A.marila), closely resembles the American variety. 

SCAUPER:  A tool with a semicircular edge, -- used by engravers to clear away the spaces between the lines of an engraving. Fairholt. 

SCAUR:  A precipitous bank or rock; a scar. 

SCAVAGE:  A toll duty formerly exacted of merchant strangers by mayors, sheriffs, etc., for goods shown or offered for sale within their precincts. Cowell. 

SCAVENGE:  To cleanse, as streets, from filth. C. Kingsley. 

SCAVENGER:  A person whose employment is to clean the streets of a city, by scraping or sweeping, and carrying off the fifth. The name is also applied to any animal which devours refuse, carrion, or anything injurious to health. Scavenger beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle which feeds on decaying substances, as the carrion beetle.  -- Scavanger crab (Zoöl.), any crab which feeds on dead animals, as the spider crab.  -- Scavenger's daughter Etym: [corrupt. of Skevington's daughter], an instrument of torture invented by Sir W. Skevington, which so compressed the body as to force the blood to flow from nostrils. and sometimes from the hands and feet. Am. Cyc. 

SCAVENGING:  Act or process of expelling the exhaust gases from the cylinder by some special means, as, in many four-cycle engines, by utilizing the momentum of the exhaust gases in a long exhaust pipe. 

SCAZON:  A choliamb. 

SCELERAT:  A villian; a criminal. [Obs.] Cheyne. 

SCELESTIC:  Evil; wicked; atrocious. [Obs.] "Scelestic villainies." Feltham. 

SCELET:  A mummy; a skeleton. [Obs.] olland. 

SCENARIO:  A preliminary sketch of the plot, or main incidents, of an opera. 

SCENARY:  Scenery. [Obs.] Dryden. 

SCENE:  To exhibit as a scene; to make a scene of; to display. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft. 

SCENEFUL:  Having much scenery. [R.] 

SCENEMAN:  The man who manages the movable scenes in a theater. 

SCENESHIFTER:  One who moves the scenes in a theater; a sceneman.  SCENIC; SCENICAL Scen"ic, Scen"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. scaenicus, scenicus, Gr. scénique. See Scene.]  Of or pertaining to scenery; of the nature of scenery; theatrical. All these situations communicate a scenical animation to the wild romance, if treated dramatically. De Quincey. 

SCENOGRAPH:  A perspective representation or general view of an object.  SCENOGRAPHIC; SCENOGRAPHICAL Scen`o*graph"ic, Scen`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. scénographique, Gr.  Of or pertaining to scenography; drawn in perspective.  -- Scen`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SCENOGRAPHY:  The art or act of representing a body on a perspective plane; also, a representation or description of a body, in all its dimensions, as it appears to the eye. Greenhill. 

SCENTINGLY:  By scent. [R.] Fuller. 

SCENTLESS:  Having no scent. The scentless and the scented rose. Cowper. 

SCEPSIS:  Skepticism; skeptical philosophy. [R.] Among their products were the system of Locke, the scepsis of Hume, the critical philosophy of kant. J. martineau.  SCEPTER; SCEPTRE Scep"ter, Scep"tre, n. Etym: [F. sceptre, L. sceptrum, from Gr. shaft. See Shaft, and cf. Scape a stem, shaft.]  1. A staff or baton borne by a sovereign, as a ceremonial badge or emblem of authority; a royal mace. And the king held out Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. Esther v. 2.  2. Hence, royal or imperial power or authority; sovereignty; as, to assume the scepter. The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shilon come. Gen. xlix. 10.  SCEPTER; SCEPTRE Scep"ter, Scep"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sceptered or Sceptred (p. pr. & vb. n. Sceptering or Sceptring (.]  To endow with the scepter, or emblem of authority; to invest with royal authority. To Britain's queen the sceptered suppliant bends. Tickell. 

SCEPTERELLATE:  Having a straight shaft with whorls of spines; -- said of certain sponge spicules. See Illust. under Spicule.  SCEPTERLESS; SCEPTRELESS Scep"ter*less, Scep"tre*less, a.  Having no scepter; without authority; powerless; as, a scepterless king.  SCEPTIC; SCEPTICAL; SCEPTICISM Scep"tic, Scep"tic*al, Scep"ti*cism,  etc. See Skeptic, Skeptical, Skepticism, etc. 

SCEPTRAL:  Of or pertaining to a scepter; like a scepter. 

SCERN:  To discern; to perceive. [Obs.] 

SCHADE:  Shade; shadow. [Obs.]  Note: English words now beginning with sh, like shade, were formerly often spelled with a c between the s and h; as, schade; schame; schape; schort, etc. 

SCHAH:  See Shah. 

SCHAPPE:  A silk yarn or fabric made out of carded spun silk. 

SCHATCHEN:  A person whose business is marriage brokage; a marriage broker, esp. among certain Jews. 

SCHEDIASM:  Cursory writing on a loose sheet. [R.] 

SCHEDULE:  A written or printed scroll or sheet of paper; a document; especially, a formal list or inventory; a list or catalogue annexed to a larger document, as to a will, a lease, a statute, etc.  Syn.  -- Catalogue; list; inventory. see List. 

SCHEDULE:  To form into, or place in, a schedule.  SCHEELE'S GREEN Scheele's" green`. Etym: [See Scheelite.] (Chem.)  See under Green. 

SCHEELIN:  Scheelium. [Obs.] 

SCHEELITE:  Calcium tungstate, a mineral of a white or pale yellowish color and of the tetragonal system of crystallization. 

SCHEELIUM:  The metal tungsten. [Obs.] 

SCHEIK:  See Sheik. 

SCHELLY:  The powan. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCHEMA:  An outline or image universally applicable to a general conception, under which it is likely to be presented to the mind; as, five dots in a line are a schema of the number five; a preceding and succeeding event are a schema of cause and effect. 

SCHEMATIC:  Of or pertaining to a scheme or a schema. 

SCHEMATISM:  Combination of the aspects of heavenly bodies.  2. Particular form or disposition of a thing; an exhibition in outline of any systematic arrangement. [R.] 

SCHEMATIST:  One given to forming schemes; a projector; a schemer. Swift. 

SCHEMATIZE:  To form a scheme or schemes. 

SCHEME:  A representation of the aspects of the celestial bodies for any moment o at a given event. A blue case, from which was drawn a scheme of nativity. Sir W. Scott.  Syn.  -- Plan; project; contrivance; purpose; device; plot.  -- Scheme, Plan. Scheme and plan are subordinate to design; they propose modes of carrying our designs into effect. Scheme is the least definite of the two, and lies more in speculation. A plan is drawn out into details with a view to being carried into effect. As schemes are speculative, they often prove visionary; hence the opprobrious use of the words schemer and scheming. Plans, being more practical, are more frequently carried into effect. He forms the well-concerted scheme of mischief; 'T is fixed, 't is done, and both are doomed to death. Rowe. Artists and plans relieved my solemn hours; I founded palaces, and planted bowers. prior. 

SCHEME:  To make a scheme of; to plan; to design; to project; to plot. That wickedness which schemed, and executed, his destruction. G. Stuart. 

SCHEME:  To form a scheme or schemes. 

SCHEMEFUL:  Full of schemes or plans. 

SCHEMER:  One who forms schemes; a projector; esp., a plotter; an intriguer. Schemers and confederates in guilt. Paley. 

SCHEMING:  Given to forming schemes; artful; intriguing.  -- Schem"ing*ly, adv. 

SCHEMIST:  A schemer. [R.] Waterland. 

SCHENE:  An Egyptian or Persian measure of length, varying from thirthy- two to sixty stadia. 

SCHENKBEER:  A mild German beer. 

SCHERBET:  See Sherbet. 

SCHERIF:  See Sherif. 

SCHERZANDO:  In a playful or sportive manner. 

SCHERZO:  A playful, humorous movement, commonly in 3-4 measure, which often takes the place of the old minuet and trio in a sonata or a symphony. 

SCHESIS:  A figure of speech whereby the mental habitude of an adversary or opponent is feigned for the purpose of arguing against him. Crabb.  SCHETIC; SCHETICAL Schet"ic, Schet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.  Of or pertaining to the habit of the body; constitutional. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

SCHIEDAM:  Holland gin made at Schiedam in the Netherlands. 

SCHILLER:  The peculiar bronzelike luster observed in certain minerals, as hypersthene, schiller spar, etc. It is due to the presence of minute inclusions in parallel position, and in sometimes of secondary origin. Schiller spar (Min.), an altered variety of enstatite, exhibiting, in certain positions, a bronzelike luster. 

SCHILLERIZATION:  The act or process of producing schiller in a mineral mass. 

SCHILLING:  Any one of several small German and Dutch coins, worth from about one and a half cents to about five cents. 

SCHINDYLESIS:  A form of articulation in which one bone is received into a groove or slit in another. 

SCHIRRHUS:  See Scirrhus. 

SCHISM:  Division or separation; specifically (Eccl.), permanent division or separation in the Christian church; breach of unity among people of the same religious faith; the offense of seeking to produce division in a church without justifiable cause. Set bounds to our passions by reason, to our errors by truth, and to our schisms by charity. Eikon Basilike.  Greek schism (Eccl.), the separation of the Greek and Roman churches.  -- Great schism, or Western schism (Eccl.) a schism in the church in the latter part of the 14th century, on account of rival claimants to the papal throne.  -- Schism act (Law), an act of the English Parliament requiring all teachers to conform to the Established Church, -- passed in 1714, repealed in 1719. 

SCHISMA:  An interval equal to half a comma. 

SCHISMATIC:  Of or pertaining to schism; implying schism; partaking of the nature of schism; tending to schism; as, schismatic opinions or proposals. 

SCHISMATIC:  One who creates or takes part in schism; one who separates from an established church or religious communion on account of a difference of opinion. "They were popularly classed together as canting schismatics." Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Heretic; partisan. See Heretic. 

SCHISMATICAL:  Same as Schismatic.  -- Schismat"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Schis*mat"ic*al*ness, n. 

SCHISMATIZE:  To make part in schism; to make a breach of communion in the church. 

SCHISMLESS:  Free from schism. 

SCHIST:  Any crystalline rock having a foliated structure (see Foliation) and hence admitting of ready division into slabs or slates. The common kinds are mica schist, and hornblendic schist, consisting chiefly of quartz with mica or hornblende and often feldspar. 

SCHISTACEOUS:  Of a slate color. 

SCHISTIC:  Schistose.  SCHISTOSE; SCHISTOUS Schis*tose", Schist*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. schisteux.] (Geol.)  Of or pertaining to schist; having the structure of a schist. 

SCHISTOSITY:  The quality or state of being schistose.  SCHIZO- Schiz"o-. Etym: [Gr.  A combining form denoting division or cleavage; as, schizogenesis, reproduction by fission or cell division. 

SCHIZOCARP:  A dry fruit which splits at maturity into several closed one- seeded portions. 

SCHIZOCOELE:  See Enterocoele. 

SCHIZOCOELOUS:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a schizocoele. 

SCHIZOGENESIS:  reproduction by fission. Haeckel. 

SCHIZOGNATH:  Any bird with a schizognathous palate. 

SCHIZOGNATHAE:  The schizognathous birds. 

SCHIZOGNATHISM:  the condition of having a schizognathous palate. 

SCHIZOGNATHOUS:  Having the maxillo-palatine bones separate from each other and from the vomer, which is pointed in front, as in the gulls, snipes, grouse, and many other birds. 

SCHIZOMYCETES:  An order of Schizophyta, including the so-called fission fungi, or bacteria. See Schizophyta, in the Supplement. 

SCHIZONEMERTEA:  A group of nemerteans comprising those having a deep slit along each side of the head. See Illust. in Appendix. 

SCHIZONT:  In certain Sporozoa, a cell formed by the growth of a sporozoite or merozoite (in a cell or corpuscle of the host) which segment by superficial cleavage, without encystment or conjugation, into  merozoites. 

SCHIZOPELMOUS:  Having the two flexor tendons of the toes entirely separate, and the flexor hallicus going to the first toe only. 

SCHIZOPHYTE:  One of a class of vegetable organisms, in the classification of Cohn, which includes all of the inferior forms that multiply by fission, whether they contain chlorophyll or not. 

SCHIZOPOD:  one of the Schizopoda. Also used adjectively.  SCHIZOPOD; SCHIZOPODOUS Schiz"o*pod, Schi*zop"o*dous, a.  Of or pertaining to a schizopod, or the Schizopoda. 

SCHIZOPODA:  A division of shrimplike Thoracostraca in which each of the thoracic legs has a long fringed upper branch (exopodite) for swimming. 

SCHIZORHINAL:  Having the nasal bones separate.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having the anterior nostrils prolonged backward in the form of a slit. 

SCHLICH:  The finer portion of a crushed ore, as of gold, lead, or tin, separated by the water in certain wet processes. [Written also slich, slick.] 

SCHMELZE:  A kind of glass of a red or ruby color, made in Bohemia. 

SCHNAPPS:  Holland gin. [U.S.] 

SCHNEIDERIAN:  Discovered or described by C. V. Schneider, a German anatomist of the seventeenth century. Schneiderian membrane, the mucous membrane which lines the nasal chambers; the pituitary membrane. 

SCHNORRER:  Among the Jews, a beggar.  SCHOHARIE GRIT Scho*har"ie grit`. (Geol.)  The formation belonging to the middle of the three subdivisions of the Corniferous period in the American Devonian system; -- so called from Schoharie, in New York, where it occurs. See the Chart of Geology. 

SCHOLARITY:  Scholarship. [Obs.] . Jonson. 

SCHOLARLIKE:  Scholarly. Bacon. 

SCHOLARLY:  Like a scholar, or learned person; showing the qualities of a scholar; as, a scholarly essay or critique.  -- adv.  In a scholarly manner. 

SCHOLASTIC:  See the Note under Jesuit. 

SCHOLASTICAL:  Scholastic. 

SCHOLASTICALLY:  In a scholastic manner. 

SCHOLASTICISM:  The method or subtitles the schools of philosophy; scholastic formality; scholastic doctrines or philosophy. The spirit of the old scholasticism . . . spurned laborious investigation and slow induction. J. P. Smith. 

SCHOLIA:  See Scholium. 

SCHOLIAST:  A maker of scholia; a commentator or annotator. No . . . quotations from Talmudists and scholiasts . . . ever marred the effect of his grave temperate discourses. Macaulay. 

SCHOLIASTIC:  Of or pertaining to a scholiast, or his pursuits. Swift. 

SCHOLIAZE:  To write scholia. [Obs.] Milton. 

SCHOLICAL:  Scholastic. [Obs.] ales. 

SCHOLION:  A scholium. A judgment which follows immediately from another is sometimes called a corollary, or consectary . . . One which illustrates the science where it appears, but is not an integral part of it, is a scholion. Abp. Thomson (Laws of Thought). 

SCHOLY:  A scholium. [Obs.] Hooker. 

SCHOLY:  To write scholia; to annotate. [Obs.] 

SCHOOL:  A shoal; a multitude; as, a school of fish. 

SCHOOLBOOK:  A book used in schools for learning lessons. 

SCHOOLBOY:  A boy belonging to, or attending, a school. 

SCHOOLDAME:  A schoolmistress. 

SCHOOLERY:  Something taught; precepts; schooling. [Obs.] penser. 

SCHOOLFELLOW:  One bred at the same school; an associate in school. 

SCHOOLGIRL:  A girl belonging to, or attending, a school. 

SCHOOLHOUSE:  A house appropriated for the use of a school or schools, or for instruction. 

SCHOOLING:  Collecting or running in schools or shoals. Schooling species like the herring and menhaden. G. B. Goode.  SCHOOLMA'AM School"ma'am, n.  A schoolmistress. [Colloq.U.S.] 

SCHOOLMAID:  A schoolgirl. Shak. 

SCHOOLMAN:  One versed in the niceties of academical disputation or of school divinity.  Note: The schoolmen were philosophers and divines of the Middle Ages, esp. from the 11th century to the Reformation, who spent much time on points of nice and abstract speculation. They were so called because they taught in the mediæval universities and schools of divinity. 

SCHOOLMATE:  A pupil who attends the same school as another. 

SCHOOLMISTRESS:  A woman who governs and teaches a school; a female school- teacher. 

SCHOOLROOM:  A room in which pupils are taught. 

SCHOOLSHIP:  A vessel employed as a nautical training school, in which naval apprentices receive their education at the expense of the state, and are trained for service as sailors. Also, a vessel used as a reform school to which boys are committed by the courts to be disciplined, and instructed as mariners.  SCHOOL-TEACHER School"-teach`er, n.  One who teaches or instructs a school.  -- School"-teach`ing, n. 

SCHOOLWARD:  Toward school. Chaucer. 

SCHOONER:  Originally, a small, sharp-built vessel, with two topsails on one or both masts and was called a topsail schooner. About 1840, longer vesels with three masts, fore-and-aft rigged, came into use, and since that time vesels with four masts and even with six masts, so rigged, are built. Schooners with more than two masts are designated three-masted schooners, four-masted schooners, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.  Note: The fist schooner ever constructed is said to have between built in Gloucester, Massachusetts, about theyar 1713, by a Captain Andrew Robinson, and to have received its name from the following trivial circumstance: When the vessel went off the stocks into the water, a bystander cried out,"O, how she scoons!" Robinson replied, " A scooner let her be;" and, from that time, vessels thus masted and rigged have gone by this name. The word scoon is popularly used in some parts of New England to denote the act of making stones skip along the surface of water. The Scottish scon means the same thing. Both words are probably allied to the Icel. skunda, skynda, to make haste, hurry, AS. scunian to avoid, shun, Prov. E. scun. In the New England records, the word appears to have been originally written scooner. Babson, in his "History of Gloucester," gives the following extract from a letter written in that place Sept. 25, 1721, by Dr. Moses Prince, brother of the Rev. Thomas Prince, the annalist of New England: "This gentleman (Captain Robinson) was first contriver of schooners, and built the first of that sort about eight years since." 

SCHOONER:  A large goblet or drinking glass, -- used for lager beer or ale. [U.S.] 

SCHORL:  Black tourmaline. [Written also shorl.] 

SCHORLACEOUS:  Partaking of the nature and character of schorl; resembling schorl. 

SCHORLOUS:  Schorlaceous. 

SCHORLY:  Pertaining to, or containing, schorl; as, schorly granite.  SCHOTTISH; SCHOTTISCHE Schot"tish, Schot"tische, (, n. Etym: [F. schottish, schotisch from G. schottisch Scottish, Scotch.]  A Scotch round dance in 2-4 time, similar to the polka, only slower; also, the music for such a dance; -- not to be confounded with the Écossaise. 

SCHREIBERSITE:  A mineral occurring in steel-gray flexible folia. It contains iron, nickel, and phosphorus, and is found only in meteoric iron. 

SCHRODE:  See Scrod.  SCHWANN'S SHEATH Schwann's" sheath`. Etym: [So called from Theodor Schwann, a German anatomist of the 19th century.] (Anat.)  The neurilemma.  SCHWANN'S WHITE SUBSTANCE Schwann's white" sub"stance. (Anat.)  The substance of the medullary sheath. 

SCHWANPAN:  Chinese abacus.  SCHWEITZERKASE; SCHWEITZERKAESE Schweit"zer*kä"se, n. Etym: [G. schweizerkäse Swiss cheese.]  Gruyère cheese.  SCHWENKFELDER; SCHWENKFELDIAN Schwenk"feld`er, Schwenk"feld`i*an, n.  A member of a religious sect founded by Kaspar von Schwenkfeld, a Silesian reformer who disagreed with Luther, especially on the deification of the body of Christ. 

SCIAENOID:  Of or pertaining to the Sciænidæ, a family of marine fishes which includes the meagre, the squeteague, and the kingfish. 

SCIAGRAPH:  An old term for a vertical section of a building; -- called also sciagraphy. See Vertical section, under Section.  2. (Phys.)  A radiograph. [Written also skiagraph.] 

SCIAGRAPHICAL:  Pertaining to sciagraphy.  -- Sci`a*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SCIAGRAPHY:  Same as Siagraph. 

SCIAMACHY:  See Sciomachy.  SCIATHERIC; SCIATHERICAL Sci`a*ther"ic, Sci`a*ther"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Belonging to a sundial. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  -- Sci`a*ther"ic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] J. Gregory. 

SCIATIC:  Of or pertaining to the hip; in the region of, or affecting, the hip; ischial; ischiatic; as, the sciatic nerve, sciatic pains. 

SCIATIC:  Sciatica. 

SCIATICA:  Neuralgia of the sciatic nerve, an affection characterized by paroxysmal attacks of pain in the buttock, back of the thing, or in the leg or foot, following the course of the branches of the sciatic nerve. The name is also popularly applied to various painful affections of the hip and the parts adjoininhg. See Ischiadic passion, under Ischiadic. 

SCIATICAL:  Sciatic. 

SCIATICALLY:  With, or by means of, sciatica. 

SCIBBOLETH:  Shibboleth. [Obs.] 

SCIENCE:  To cause to become versed in science; to make skilled; to instruct. [R.] Francis. 

SCIENT:  Knowing; skillful. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

SCIENTER:  Knowingly; willfully. Bouvier. 

SCIENTIAL:  Pertaining to, or producing, science. [R.] Milton. 

SCIENTIFICAL:  Scientific. Locke. 

SCIENTIFICALLY:  In a scientific manner; according to the rules or principles of science. It is easier to believe than to be scientifically instructed. Locke. 

SCIENTIST:  One learned in science; a scientific investigator; one devoted to scientific study; a savant. [Recent]  Note: Twenty years ago I ventured to propose one [a name for the class of men who give their lives to scientific study] which has been slowly finding its way to general adoption; and the word scientist, though scarcely euphonious, has gradually assumed its place in our vocabulary. B. A. Gould (Address, 1869). 

SCILICET:  To wit; namely; videlicet; -- often abbreviated to sc., or ss. 

SCILLAIN:  A glucoside extracted from squill (Scilla) as a light porous substance. 

SCILLITIN:  A bitter principle extracted from the bulbs of the squill (Scilla), and probably consisting of a complex mixture of several substances.  SCIMITER; SCIMITAR Scim"i*ter , Scim"i*tar, n. Etym: [F. cimeterre, cf. It. scimitarra, Sp. cimitarra; fr. Biscayan cimetarry with a sharp edge; or corrupted from Per. shimshir.]  1. A saber with a much curved blade having the edge on the convex side, -- in use among Mohammedans, esp., the Arabs and persians. [Written also cimeter, and scymetar.]  2. A long-handled billhook. See Billhook. Scimiter pods (Bot.), the immense curved woody pods of a leguminous woody climbing plant (Entada scandens) growing in tropical India and America. They contain hard round flattish seeds two inches in diameter, which are made into boxes. 

SCINCOID:  Of or pertaining to the family Scincidæ, or skinks.  -- n.  A scincoidian. 

SCINCOIDEA:  A tribe of lizards including the skinks. See Skink. 

SCINCOIDIAN:  Any one of numerous species of lizards of the family Scincidæ or tribe Scincoidea. The tongue is not extensile. The body and tail are covered with overlapping scales, and the toes are margined. See Illust. under Skink. 

SCINIPH:  Some kind of stinging or biting insect, as a flea, a gnat, a sandly, or the like. Ex. viii. 17 (Douay version). 

SCINK:  A skink. 

SCINK:  A slunk calf. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SCINTILLA:  A spark; the least particle; an iota; a tittle. R. North. 

SCINTILLANT:  Emitting sparks, or fine igneous particles; sparkling. M. Green. 

SCINTILLOUS:  Scintillant. [R.] 

SCINTILLOUSLY:  In a scintillant manner. [R.] 

SCIOGRAPHY:  See Sciagraphy. 

SCIOLISM:  The knowledge of a sciolist; superficial knowledge. 

SCIOLIST:  One who knows many things superficially; a pretender to science; a smatterer. These passages in that book were enough to humble the presumption of our modern sciolists, if their pride were not as great as their ignorance. Sir W. Temple. A master were lauded and scolists shent. R. Browning. 

SCIOLISTIC:  Of or pertaining to sciolism, or a sciolist; partaking of sciolism; resembling a sciolist. 

SCIOLOUS:  Knowing superficially or imperfectly. Howell. 

SCIOMACHY:  A fighting with a shadow; a mock contest; an imaginary or futile combat. [Written also scimachy.] Cowley. 

SCIOMANCY:  Divination by means of shadows. 

SCIOPTIC:  Of or pertaining to an optical arrangement for forming images in a darkened room, usually called scioptic ball. Scioptic ball (Opt.), the lens of a camera obscura mounted in a wooden ball which fits a socket in a window shutter so as to be readily turned, like the eye, to different parts of the landscape. 

SCIOPTICON:  A kind of magic lantorn. 

SCIOPTICS:  The art or process of exhibiting luminous images, especially those of external objects, in a darkened room, by arrangements of lenses or mirrors. 

SCIOPTRIC:  Scioptic. 

SCIOT:  Of or pertaining to the island Scio (Chio or Chios).  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Scio. [Written also Chiot.] 

SCIOTHERIC:  Of or pertaining to a sundial. Sciotheric telescope (Dialing), an instrument consisting of a horizontal dial, with a telescope attached to it, used for determining the time, whether of day or night. 

SCIOUS:  Knowing; having knowledge. "Brutes may be and are scious." Coleridge.  SCIRE FACIAS Sci`re fa"ci*as. Etym: [L., do you cause to know.] (Law)  A judicial writ, founded upon some record, and requiring the party proceeded against to show cause why the party bringing it should not have advantage of such record, or (as in the case of scire facias to repeal letters patent) why the record should not be annulled or vacated. Wharton. Bouvier. 

SCIRRHOID:  Resembling scirrhus. Dungliston. 

SCIRRHOSITY:  A morbid induration, as of a gland; stste of being scirrhous. 

SCIRRHOUS:  Proceeding from scirrhus; of the nature of scirrhus; indurated; knotty; as, scirrhous affections; scirrhous disease. [Written also skirrhous.] 

SCISCITATION:  The act of inquiring; inquiry; demand. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SCISE:  To cut; to penetrate. [Obs.] The wicked steel scised deep in his right side. Fairfax. 

SCISSIBLE:  Capable of being cut or divided by a sharp instrument. [R.] con. 

SCISSIL:  See Scissel. 

SCISSILE:  Capable of being cut smoothly; scissible. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

SCISSION:  The act of dividing with an instrument having a sharp edge. Wiseman. 

SCISSIPARITY:  Reproduction by fission. 

SCISSOR:  To cut with scissors or shears; to prepare with the aid of scissors. Massinger. 

SCISSORS:  A cutting instrument resembling shears, but smaller, consisting of two cutting blades with handles, movable on a pin in the center, by which they are held together. Often called a pair of scissors. [Formerly written also cisors, cizars, and scissars.] Scissors grinder (Zoöl.), the European goatsucker. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCISSORSBILL:  See Skimmer. 

SCISSORSTAIL:  A tyrant flycatcher (Milvulus forficatus) of the Southern United States and Mexico, which has a deeply forked tail. It is light gray above, white beneath, salmon on the flanks, and fiery red at the base of the crown feathers.  SCISSORS-TAILED Scis"sors-tailed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the outer feathers much the longest, the others decreasing regularly to the median ones. 

SCISSURE:  A longitudinal opening in a body, made by cutting; a cleft; a fissure. Hammond. 

SCITAMINEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Scitamimeæ), mostly tropical herbs, including the ginger, Indian shot, banana, and the plants producing turmeric and arrowroot. 

SCIURINE:  Of or pertaining to the Squirrel family.  -- n.  A rodent of the Squirrel family. 

SCIUROID:  Resembling the tail of a squirrel; -- generally said of branches which are close and dense, or of spikes of grass like barley. 

SCIUROMORPHA:  A tribe of rodents containing the squirrels and allied animals, such as the gophers, woodchucks, beavers, and others. 

SCIURUS:  A genus of reodents comprising the common squirrels. 

SCLAFF:  To scrape (the club) on the ground, in a stroke, before hitting the ball; also, to make (a stroke) in that way. 

SCLAUNDRE:  Slander. [Obs.] Chaucer.  SCLAV; SCLAVE Sclav, Sclave, n.  Same as Slav. 

SCLAVIC:  Same as Slavic. 

SCLAVISM:  Same as Slavism. 

SCLAVONIAN:  Same as Slavonian. 

SCLAVONIC:  Same as Slavonic. 

SCLENDER:  Slender. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SCLERAGOGY:  Severe discipline. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket. 

SCLEREMA:  Induration of the cellular tissue. Sclerema of adults. See Scleroderma.  -- Sclerema neonatorum ( Etym: [NL., of the newborn], an affection characterized by a peculiar hardening and rigidity of the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues in the newly born. It is usually fatal. Called also skinbound disease. 

SCLERENCHYMA:  Vegetable tissue composed of short cells with thickened or hardened walls, as in nutshells and the gritty parts of a pear. See Sclerotic.  Note: By recent german writers and their English translation, this term is used for liber cells. Goodale.  2. (Zoöl.)  The hard calcareous deposit in the tissues of Anthozoa, constituing the stony corals. 

SCLERENCHYMATOUS:  Pertaining to, or composed of, sclerenchyma. 

SCLERENCHYME:  Sclerenchyma. 

SCLERITE:  A hard chitinous or calcareous process or corpuscle, especially a spicule of the Alcyonaria. 

SCLERITIS:  See Sclerottis. 

SCLEROBASE:  The calcareous or hornlike coral forming the central stem or axis of most compound alcyonarians; -- called also foot secretion. See Illust. under Gorgoniacea, and Coenenchyma.  -- Scler`o*ba"sic, a. 

SCLERODERMA:  A disease of adults, characterized by a diffuse rigidity and hardness of the skin. 

SCLERODERMATA:  The stony corals; the Madreporaria.  SCLERODERMIC; SCLERODERMOUS Scler`o*der"mic, Scler`o*der"mous, (Zoöl.) (a) Having the integument, or skin, hard, or covered with hard plates. (b) Of or pertaining to the Sclerodermata. 

SCLEROGEN:  The thickening matter of woody cells; lignin. 

SCLEROGENOUS:  Making or secreting a hard substance; becoming hard. 

SCLEROID:  Having a hard texture, as nutshells. 

SCLEROMA:  Induration of the tissues. See Sclerma, Scleroderma, and Sclerosis. 

SCLEROMETER:  An instrument for determining with accuracy the degree of hardness of a mineral. 

SCLEROSED:  Affected with sclerosis. 

SCLEROSIS:  Induration; hardening; especially, that form of induration produced in an organ by increase of its interstitial connective tissue.  2. (Bot.)  Hardening of the cell wall by lignification. Cerebro-spinal sclerosis (Med.), an affection in which patches of hardening, produced by increase of the neuroglia and atrophy of the true nerve tissue, are found scattered throughout the brain and spinal cord. It is associated with complete or partial paralysis, a peculiar jerking tremor of the muscles, headache, and vertigo, and is usually fatal. Called also multiple, disseminated, or insular, sclerosis. 

SCLEROSKELETON:  That part of the skeleton which is developed in tendons, ligaments, and aponeuroses. 

SCLEROTAL:  Sclerotic.  -- n.  The optic capsule; the sclerotic coat of the eye. Owen. 

SCLEROTIC:  Of or pertaining to the sclerotic coat of the eye; sclerotical.  3. (Med.) Affected with sclerosis; sclerosed. Sclerotic parenchyma (Bot.), sclerenchyma. By some writers a distinction is made, sclerotic parenchyma being applied to tissue composed of cells with the walls hardened but not thickened, and sclerenchyma to tissue composed of cells with the walls both hardened and thickened. 

SCLEROTIC:  The sclerotic coat of the eye. See Illust. of Eye (d). 

SCLEROTIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from ergot or the sclerotium of a fungus growing on rye. 

SCLEROTICAL:  Sclerotic. 

SCLEROTITIS:  Inflammation of the sclerotic coat. 

SCLEROTIUM:  A hardened body formed by certain fungi, as by the Claviceps purpurea, which produced ergot.  2. (Zoöl.)  The nature or resting stage of a plasmodium. 

SCLEROTOME:  One of the bony, cartilaginous, or membranous partitoins which separate the myotomes.  -- Scler`o*tom"ic, a. 

SCLEROUS:  Hard; indurated; sclerotic. 

SCOAT:  To prop; to scotch. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCOBBY:  The chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCOBIFORM:  Having the form of, or resembling, sawdust or raspings. 

SCOFF:  To show insolent ridicule or mockery; to manifest contempt by derisive acts or language; -- often with at. Thuth from his lips prevailed with double sway, And fools who came to scoff, remained to pray. Goldsmith.  Syn.  -- To sneer; mock; gibe; jeer. See Sneer. 

SCOFF:  To treat or address with derision; to assail scornfully; to mock at. To scoff religion is ridiculously proud and immodest. Glanwill. 

SCOFFER:  One who scoffs. 2 Pet. iii. 3. 

SCOFFERY:  The act of scoffing; scoffing conduct; mockery. Holinshed. 

SCOFFINGLY:  In a scoffing manner. Broome. 

SCOKE:  Poke (Phytolacca decandra). 

SCOLAY:  See Scoley. [Obs.] 

SCOLD:  To find fault or rail with rude clamor; to brawl; to utter harsh, rude, boisterous rebuke; to chide sharply or coarsely; -- often with at; as, to scold at a servant. Pardon me, lords, 't is the first time ever I was forced to scold. Shak. 

SCOLD:  To chide with rudeness and clamor; to rate; also, to rebuke or reprove with severity. 

SCOLDING:  a. & n. from Scold, v. Scolding bridle, an iron frame. See Brank, n., 2. 

SCOLDINGLY:  In a scolding manner. 

SCOLE:  School. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SCOLECIDA:  Same as Helminthes. 

SCOLECITE:  A zeolitic mineral occuring in delicate radiating groups of white crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia and lime. Called also lime mesotype. 

SCOLECOMORPHA:  Same as Scolecida. 

SCOLEY:  To go to school; to study. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SCOLIOSIS:  A lateral curvature of the spine. 

SCOLITHUS:  A tubular structure found in Potsdam sandstone, and believed to be the fossil burrow of a marine worm. 

SCOLLOP:  See Scallop. 

SCOLOPACINE:  Of or pertaining to the Scolopacidæ, or Snipe family. 

SCOLOPENDRA:  A genus of venomous myriapods including the centipeds. See Centiped.  2. A sea fish. [R.] Spenser. 

SCOLOPENDRINE:  Like or pertaining to the Scolopendra. 

SCOLYTID:  Any one of numerous species of small bark-boring beetles of the genus Scolytus and allied genera. Also used adjectively. 

SCOMBER:  A genus of acanthopterygious fishes which includes the common mackerel. 

SCOMBEROID:  Same as Scombroid. 

SCOMBRIFORMES:  A division of fishes including the mackerels, tunnies, and allied fishes. 

SCOMBROID:  Like or pertaining to the Mackerel family.  -- n.  Any fish of the family Scombridæ, of which the mackerel (Scomber) is the type. 

SCOMFISH:  To suffocate or stifle; to smother. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 

SCOMFIT:  Discomfit. [Obs.] 

SCONCE:  A protection for a light; a lantern or cased support for a candle; hence, a fixed hanging or projecting candlestick. Tapers put into lanterns or sconces of several-colored, oiled paper, that the wind might not annoy them. Evelyn. Golden sconces hang not on the walls. Dryden.  7. Hence, the circular tube, with a brim, in a candlestick, into which the candle is inserted.  8. (Arch.)  A squinch.  9. A fragment of a floe of ice. Kane.  10. Etym: [Perhaps a different word.]  A fixed seat or shelf. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCONCHEON:  A squinch. 

SCONE:  A cake, thinner than a bannock, made of wheat or barley or oat meal. [Written variously, scon, skone, skon, etc.] [Scot.] Burns. 

SCOOP:  A spoon-shaped instrument, used in extracting certain substances or foreign bodies.  4. A place hollowed out; a basinlike cavity; a hollow. Some had lain in the scoop of the rock. J. R. Drake.  5. A sweep; a stroke; a swoop.  6. The act of scooping, or taking with a scoop or ladle; a motion with a scoop, as in dipping or shoveling. Scoop net, a kind of hand net, used in fishing; also, a net for sweeping the bottom of a river.  -- Scoop wheel, a wheel for raising water, having scoops or buckets attached to its circumference; a tympanum. 

SCOOPER:  The avocet; -- so called because it scoops up the mud to obtain food. 

SCOOT:  To walk fast; to go quickly; to run hastily away. [Colloq. & Humorous, U.S.] 

SCOPARIN:  A yellow gelatinous or crystalline substance found in broom (Cytisus scoparius) accompanying sparteïne. 

SCOPATE:  Having the surface closely covered with hairs, like a brush.  -SCOPE -scope (. Etym: [Gr. skopo`s a watcher, spy. See Scope.]  A combining form usually signifying an instrument for viewing (with the eye) or observing (in any way); as in microscope, telescope, altoscope, anemoscope. 

SCOPELINE:  Scopeloid. 

SCOPELOID:  Like or pertaining to fishes of the genus Scopelus, or family Scopelodæ, which includes many small oceanic fishes, most of which are phosphorescent.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  Any fish of the family Scopelidæ. 

SCOPIFEROUS:  Bearing a tuft of brushlike hairs. 

SCOPIFORM:  Having the form of a broom or besom. "Zeolite, stelliform or scopiform." Kirwan. 

SCOPIPED:  Same as Scopuliped. 

SCOPPET:  To lade or dip out. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.  SCOPS OWL Scops" owl`. Etym: [NL. scops, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of small owls of the genus Scops having ear tufts like those of the horned owls, especially the European scops owl (Scops giu), and the American screech owl. (S. Asio).  SCOPTIC; SCOPTICAL Scop"tic, Scop"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Jesting; jeering; scoffing. [Obs.] South.  -- Scop"tic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

SCOPULIPED:  Any species of bee which has on the hind legs a brush of hairs used for collecting pollen, as the hive bees and bumblebees. 

SCOPULOUS:  Full of rocks; rocky. [Obs.] 

SCORBUTE:  Scurry. [Obs.] Purchas.  SCORBUTIC; SCORBUTICAL Scor*bu"tic, Scor*bu"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. scorbutique.] (Med.)  Of or pertaining to scurvy; of the nature of, or resembling, scurvy; diseased with scurvy; as, a scorbutic person; scorbutic complaints or symptoms.  -- Scor*bu"tic*al*ly, adv. 

SCORBUTUS:  Scurvy. 

SCORCE:  Barter. [Obs.] See Scorse. 

SCORCHING:  Burning; parching or shriveling with heat.  -- Scorch"ing*ly, adv.  -- Scorch"ing*ness, n. 

SCORE:  The original and entire draught, or its transcript, of a composition, with the parts for all the different instruments or voices written on staves one above another, so that they can be read at a glance; -- so called from the bar, which, in its early use, was drawn through all the parts. Moore (Encyc. of Music). In score (Mus.), having all the parts arranged and placed in juxtaposition. Smart.  -- To quit scores, to settle or balance accounts; to render an equivalent; to make compensation. Does not the earth quit scores with all the elements in the noble fruits that issue from it South. 

SCORE:  To write down in proper order and arrangement; as, to score an overture for an orchestra. See Score, n., 9.  7. (Geol.)  To mark with parallel lines or scratches; as, the rocks of New England and the Western States were scored in the drift epoch. 

SCORER:  One who, or that which, scores. 

SCORIAC:  Scoriaceous. E. A. Poe. 

SCORIACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to scoria; like scoria or the recrement of metals; partaking of the nature of scoria. 

SCORIE:  The young of any gull. [Written also scaurie.] [prov. Eng.] 

SCORIFICATION:  The act, process, or result of scorifying, or reducing to a slag; hence, the separation from earthy matter by means of a slag; as, the scorification of ores. 

SCORIFIER:  One who, or that which, scorifies; specifically, a small flat bowl-shaped cup used in the first heating in assaying, to remove the earth and gangue, and to concentrate the gold and silver in a lead button. 

SCORIFORM:  In the form of scoria. 

SCORIFY:  To reduce to scoria or slag; specifically, in assaying, to fuse so as to separate the gangue and earthy material, with borax, lead, soda, etc., thus leaving the gold and silver in a lead button; hence, to separate from, or by means of, a slag. 

SCORIOUS:  Scoriaceous. Sir T. Browne. 

SCORN:  To scoff; to act disdainfully. He said mine eyes were black and my hair black, And, now I remembered, scorned at me. Shak. 

SCORNER:  One who scorns; a despiser; a contemner; specifically, a scoffer at religion. "Great scorners of death." Spenser. Superly he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the lowly. Prov. iii. 34. 

SCORNY:  Deserving scorn; paltry. [Obs.] 

SCORODITE:  A leek-green or brownish mineral occurring in orthorhombic crystals. It is a hydrous arseniate of iron. [Written also skorodite.] 

SCORPAENOID:  Of or pertaining to the family Scorpænidæ, which includes the scorpene, the rosefish, the California rockfishes, and many other food fishes. [Written also scorpænid.] See Illust. under Rockfish. 

SCORPENE:  A marine food fish of the genus Scorpæna, as the European hogfish (S. scrofa), and the California species (S. guttata). 

SCORPER:  Same as Scauper. 

SCORPIO:  A scorpion.  2. (Astron.) (a) The eighth sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about the twenty-third day of October, marked thus [scorpio] in almanacs. (b) A constellation of the zodiac containing the bright star Antares. It is drawn on the celestial globe in the figure of a scorpion. 

SCORPIODEA:  Same as Scorpiones.  SCORPIOID; SCORPIOIDAL Scor"pi*oid, Scor`pi*oid"al, a. Etym: [Gr.  1. Having the inflorescence curved or circinate at the end, like a scorpion's tail. 

SCORPION:  Any one of numerous species of pulmonate arachnids of the order scorpiones, having a suctorial mouth, large claw-bearing palpi, and a caudal sting.  Note: Scorpions have a flattened body, and a long, slender post- abdomen formed of six movable segments, the last of which terminates in a curved venomous sting. The venom causes great pain, but is unattended either with redness or swelling, except in the axillary or inguinal glands, when an extremity is affected. It is seldom if ever destructive of life. Scorpions are found widely dispersed in the warm climates of both the Old and New Worlds.  2. (Zoöl.)  The pine or gray lizard (Sceloporus undulatus). [Local, U.S.]  3. (Zoöl.)  the scorpene.  4. (Script.)  A painful scourge. My father hath chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions. 1 Kings xii. 11.  5. (Astron.)  A sign and constellation. See Scorpio.  6. (Antiq.)  An ancient military engine for hurling stones and other missiles. Book scorpion. (Zoöl.) See under Book.  -- False scorpion. (Zoöl.) See under False, and Book scorpion.  -- Scorpion bug, or Water scorpion (Zoöl.) See Nepa.  -- Scorpion fly (Zoöl.), a neuropterous insect of the genus Panorpa. See Panorpid.  -- Scorpion grass (Bot.), a plant of the genus Myosotis. M. palustris is the forget-me-not.  -- Sorpion senna (Bot.), a yellow-flowered leguminous shrub (Coronilla Emerus) having a slender joined pod, like a scorpion's tail. The leaves are said to yield a dye like indigo, and to be used sometimes to adulterate senna.  -- Scorpion shell (Zoöl.), any shell of the genus Pteroceras. See Pteroceras.  -- Scorpion spiders. (Zoöl.), any one of the Pedipalpi.  -- Scorpion's tail (Bot.), any plant of the leguminous genus Scorpiurus, herbs with a circinately coiled pod; -- also called caterpillar.  -- Scorpion's thorn (Bot.), a thorny leguminous plant (Genista Scorpius) of Southern Europe.  -- The Scorpion's Heart (Astron.), the star Antares in the constellation Scorpio. 

SCORPIONES:  A division of arachnids comprising the scorpions. 

SCORPIONIDEA:  Same as Scorpiones. 

SCORPIONWORT:  A leguminous plant (Ornithopus scorpides) of Southern Europe, having curved pods. 

SCORSE:  Barter; exchange; trade. [Obs.] And recompensed them with a better scorse. Spenser. 

SCORSE:  To deal for the purchase of anything; to practice barter. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SCORTATORY:  Pertaining to lewdness or fornication; lewd. 

SCOT:  A name for a horse. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SCOT:  A native or inhabitant of Scotland; a Scotsman, or Scotchman. 

SCOT:  A portion of money assessed or paid; a tax or contribution; a mulct; a fine; a shot. Scot and lot, formerly, a parish assessment laid on subjects according to their ability. [Eng.] Cowell. Now, a phrase for obligations of every kind regarded collectivelly. Experienced men of the world know very well that it is best to pay scot and lot as they go along. Emerson.  SCOTAL; SCOTALE Scot"al, Scot"ale, n. Etym: [Scot + ale.] (O. Eng. Law)  The keeping of an alehouse by an officer of a forest, and drawing people to spend their money for liquor, for fear of his displeasure. 

SCOTCH:  Of or pertaining to Scotland, its language, or its inhabitants; Scottish. Scotch broom (Bot.), the Cytisus scoparius. See Broom.  -- Scotch dipper, or Scotch duck (Zoöl.), the bufflehead; -- called also Scotch teal, and Scotchman.  -- Scotch fiddle, the itch. [Low] Sir W. Scott.  -- Scotch mist, a coarse, dense mist, like fine rain.  -- Scotch nightingale (Zoöl.), the sedge warbler. [Prov. Eng.] -- Scotch pebble. See under pebble.  -- Scotch pine (Bot.) See Riga fir.  -- Scotch thistle (Bot.), a species of thistle (Onopordon acanthium); -- so called from its being the national emblem of the Scotch. 

SCOTCH:  To shoulder up; to prop or block with a wedge, chock, etc., as a wheel, to prevent its rolling or slipping. 

SCOTCH:  A chock, wedge, prop, or other support, to prevent slipping; as, a scotch for a wheel or a log on inclined ground. 

SCOTCH:  To cut superficially; to wound; to score. We have scotched the snake, not killed it. Shak. Scotched collops (Cookery), a dish made of pieces of beef or veal cut thin, or minced, beaten flat, and stewed with onion and other condiments; -- called also Scotch collops. [Written also scotcht collops.] 

SCOTCH:  A slight cut or incision; a score. Walton.  SCOTCH-HOPPER Scotch"-hop`per, n.  Hopscotch. 

SCOTCHING:  Dressing stone with a pick or pointed instrument. 

SCOTCHMAN:  A piece of wood or stiff hide placed over shrouds and other rigging to prevent chafe by the running gear. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  SCOTCH RITE Scotch rite. (Freemasonry)  The ceremonial observed by one of the Masonic systems, called in full the Ancient and Accepted Scotch Rite; also, the system itself, which confers thirty-three degrees, of which the first three are nearly identical with those of the York rite.  SCOTCH TERRIER Scotch terrier. (Zoöl.)  One of a breed of small terriers with long, rough hair. 

SCOTER:  Any one of several species of northern sea ducks of the genus Oidemia.  Note: The European scoters are Oidemia nigra, called also black duck, black diver, surf duck; and the velvet, or double, scoter (O. fusca). The common American species are the velvet, or white-winged, scoter (O. Deglandi), called also velvet duck, white-wing, bull coot, white- winged coot; the black scoter (O. Americana), called also black coot, butterbill, coppernose; and the surf scoter, or surf duck (O. perspicillata), called also baldpate, skunkhead, horsehead, patchhead, pishaug, and spectacled coot. These birds are collectively called also coots. The females and young are called gray coots, and brown coots.  SCOT-FREE Scot"-free" [], a.  Free from payment of scot; untaxed; hence, unhurt; clear; safe. Do as much for this purpose, and thou shalt pass scot-free. Sir W. Scott. Then young Hay escaped scot-free to Holland. A. Lang. 

SCOTH:  To clothe or cover up. [Obs.] 

SCOTH:  To clothe or cover up. [Obs.] 

SCOTIA:  A concave molding used especially in classical architecture. 

SCOTIA:  Scotland [Poetic] O Scotia! my dear, my native soil! Burns. 

SCOTIST:  A follower of (Joannes) Duns Scotus, the Franciscan scholastic (d. 1308), who maintained certain doctrines in philosophy and theology, in opposition to the Thomists, or followers of Thomas Aquinas, the Dominican scholastic. 

SCOTOGRAPH:  An instrument for writing in the dark, or without seeing. Maunder. 

SCOTOMA:  Scotomy. 

SCOTOMY:  Obscuration of the field of vision due to the appearance of a dark spot before the eye. 

SCOTOSCOPE:  An instrument that discloses objects in the dark or in a faint light. [Obs.] Pepys. 

SCOTS:  Of or pertaining to the Scotch; Scotch; Scottish; as, Scots law; a pound Scots (1s. 8d.). 

SCOTSMAN:  See Scotchman. 

SCOTTERING:  The burning of a wad of pease straw at the end of harvest. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCOTTICISM:  An idiom, or mode of expression, peculiar to Scotland or Scotchmen. That, in short, in which the Scotticism of Scotsmen most intimately consists, is the habit of emphasis. Masson. 

SCOTTICIZE:  To cause to become like the Scotch; to make Scottish. [R.] 

SCOTTISH:  Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of Scotland, their country, or their language; as, Scottish industry or economy; a Scottish chief; a Scottish dialect.  SCOTTISH TERRIER Scot"tish ter"ri*er. (Zoöl.)  Same as Scotch terrier. 

SCOUNDREL:  A mean, worthless fellow; a rascal; a villain; a man without honor or virtue. Go, if your ancient, but ignoble blood Has crept through soundrels ever since the flood. Pope. 

SCOUNDREL:  Low; base; mean; unprincipled. 

SCOUNDRELDOM:  The domain or sphere of scoundrels; scoundrels, collectively; the state, ideas, or practices of scoundrels. Carlyle. 

SCOUNDRELISM:  The practices or conduct of a scoundrel; baseness; rascality. Cotgrave. 

SCOUR:  To pass swiftly over; to brush along; to traverse or search thoroughly; as, to scour the coast. Not so when swift Camilla scours the plain. Pope. Scouring barrel, a tumbling barrel. See under Tumbling.  -- Scouring cinder (Metal.), a basic slag, which attacks the lining of a shaft furnace. Raymond.  -- Scouring rush. (Bot.) See Dutch rush, under Dutch.  -- Scouring stock (Woolen Manuf.), a kind of fulling mill. 

SCOUR:  Diarrhoea or dysentery among cattle. 

SCOURAGE:  Refuse water after scouring. 

SCOURGER:  One who scourges or punishes; one who afflicts severely. The West must own the scourger of the world. Byron. 

SCOURSE:  See Scorse. [Obs.] 

SCOUSE:  A sailor's dish. Bread scouse contains no meat; lobscouse contains meat, etc. See Lobscouse. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

SCOUT:  A swift sailing boat. [Obs.] So we took a scout, very much pleased with the manner and conversation of the passengers. Pepys. 

SCOUT:  A projecting rock. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

SCOUT:  To reject with contempt, as something absurd; to treat with ridicule; to flout; as, to scout an idea or an apology. "Flout 'em and scout 'em." Shak. 

SCOUT:  A fielder in a game for practice.  4. The act of scouting or reconnoitering. [Colloq.] While the rat is on the scout. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Scout, Spy.  -- In a military sense a scout is a soldier who does duty in his proper uniform, however hazardous his adventure. A spy is one who in disguise penetrates the enemies' lines, or lurks near them, to obtain information. 

SCOUT:  To go on the business of scouting, or watching the motions of an enemy; to act as a scout. With obscure wing Scout far and wide into the realm of night. Milton. 

SCOVEL:  A mop for sweeping ovens; a malkin. 

SCOW:  A large flat-bottomed boat, having broad, square ends. 

SCOW:  To transport in a scow. 

SCOWLINGLY:  In a scowling manner.  SCRABBED EGGS Scrab"bed eggs`. Etym: [CF. Scramble.]  A Lenten dish, composed of eggs boiled hard, chopped, and seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper. Halliwell. 

SCRABBLE:  To mark with irregular lines or letters; to scribble; as, to scrabble paper. 

SCRABBLE:  The act of scrabbing; a moving upon the hands and knees; a scramble; also, a scribble. 

SCRAFFLE:  To scramble or struggle; to wrangle; also, to be industrious. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SCRAGGEDNESS:  Quality or state of being scragged. 

SCRAGGILY:  in a scraggy manner. 

SCRAGGINESS:  The quality or state of being scraggy; scraggedness. 

SCRAGLY:  See Scraggy.  SCRAG-NECKED Scrag"-necked`, a.  Having a scraggy neck. 

SCRAMBLE:  Eggs of which the whites and yolks are stirred together while cooking, or eggs beaten slightly, often with a little milk, and stirred while cooking. 

SCRAMBLING:  Confused and irregular; awkward; scambling.  -- Scram"bling*ly, adv. A huge old scrambling bedroom. Sir W. Scott. 

SCRANCH:  To grind with the teeth, and with a crackling sound; to craunch. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 

SCRANKY:  Thin; lean. [Scot.] 

SCRANNEL:  Slight; thin; lean; poor. Having Grate on their scranned pipes of wretched straw. Milton. 

SCRANNY:  Thin; lean; meager; scrawny; scrannel. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SCRAP:  The crisp substance that remains after trying out animal fat; as, pork scraps.  4. pl.  Same as Scrap iron, below. Scrap forgings, forgings made from wrought iron scrap.  -- Scrap iron. (a) Cuttings and waste pieces of wrought iron from which bar iron or forgings can be made; -- called also wrought-iron scrap. (b) Fragments of cast iron or defective castings suitable for remelting in the foundry; -- called also founding scrap, or cast scrap. 

SCRAPBOOK:  A blank book in which extracts cut from books and papers may be pasted and kept. 

SCRAPEPENNY:  One who gathers and hoards money in trifling sums; a miser. 

SCRAPING:  Resembling the act of, or the effect produced by, one who, or that which, scrapes; as, a scraping noise; a scraping miser.  -- Scrap"ing*ly, adv. 

SCRAPPILY:  In a scrappy manner; in scraps. Mary Cowden Clarke. 

SCRAPPLE:  An article of food made by boiling together bits or scraps of meat, usually pork, and flour or Indian meal. 

SCRAPPY:  Consisting of scraps; fragmentary; lacking unity or consistency; as, a scrappy lecture. A dreadfully scrappy dinner. Thackeray. 

SCRAT:  To scratch. [Obs.] Burton. 

SCRAT:  To rake; to search. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag. 

SCRAT:  An hermaphrodite. [Obs.] Skinner. 

SCRATCH:  To score, not by skillful play but by some fortunate chance of the game. [Cant, U.S.] 

SCRATCH:  A line across the prize ring; up to which boxers are brought when they join fight; hence, test, trial, or proof of courage; as, to bring to the scratch; to come up to the scratch. [Cant] Grose.  3. pl. (Far.)  Minute, but tender and troublesome, excoriations, covered with scabs, upon the heels of horses which have been used where it is very wet or muddy. Law (Farmer's Veter. Adviser).  4. A kind of wig covering only a portion of the head.  5. (Billiards)  A shot which scores by chance and not as intended by the player; a fluke. [Cant, U.S.] Scratch cradle. See Cratch cradle, under Cratch.  -- Scratch grass (Bot.), a climbing knotweed (Polygonum sagittatum) with a square stem beset with fine recurved prickles along the angles.  -- Scratch wig. Same as Scratch, 4, above. Thackeray. 

SCRATCH:  Made, done, or happening by chance; arranged with little or no preparation; determined by circumstances; haphazard; as, a scratch team; a scratch crew for a boat race; a scratch shot in billiards. [Slang] Scratch race, one without restrictions regarding the entrance of competitors; also, one for which the competitors are chosen by lot. 

SCRATCHBACK:  A toy which imitates the sound of tearing cloth, -- used by drawing it across the back of unsuspecting persons. [Eng.] 

SCRATCHBRUSH:  A stiff wire brush for cleaning iron castings and other metal.  SCRATCH COAT Scratch" coat`.  The first coat in plastering; -- called also scratchwork. See Pricking-up. 

SCRATCHER:  One who, or that which, scratches; specifically (Zoöl.), any rasorial bird. 

SCRATCHING:  With the action of scratching.  SCRATCH PLAYER; SCRATCH RUNNER Scratch player, runner, etc.  One that starts from the scratch; hence, one of first-rate ability. 

SCRATCHWEED:  Cleavers. 

SCRATCHWORK:  See Scratch coat. 

SCRATCHY:  Characterized by scratches. 

SCRAW:  A turf. [Obs.] Swift. 

SCRAWL:  See Crawl. [Obs.] Latimer. 

SCRAWL:  To draw or mark awkwardly and irregularly; to write hastily and carelessly; to scratch; to scribble; as, to scrawl a letter. His name, scrawled by himself. Macaulay. 

SCRAWL:  To write unskillfully and inelegantly. Though with a golden pen you scrawl. Swift. 

SCRAWL:  Unskillful or inelegant writing; that which is unskillfully or inelegantly written. The left will make such a scrawl, that it will not be legible. Arbuthnot. You bid me write no more than a scrawl to you. Gray. 

SCRAWLER:  One who scrawls; a hasty, awkward writer. 

SCRAWNY:  Meager; thin; rawboned; bony; scranny. 

SCRAY:  A tern; the sea swallow. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also sgraye.] 

SCREABLE:  Capable of being spit out. [Obs.] Bailey. 

SCREAK:  To utter suddenly a sharp, shrill sound; to screech; to creak, as a door or wheel. 

SCREAK:  A creaking; a screech; a shriek. Bp. Bull. 

SCREAM:  To cry out with a shrill voice; to utter a sudden, sharp outcry, or shrill, loud cry, as in fright or extreme pain; to shriek; to screech. I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry. Shak. And scream thyself as none e'er screamed before. Pope. 

SCREAM:  A sharp, shrill cry, uttered suddenly, as in terror or in pain; a shriek; a screech. "Screams of horror." Pope. 

SCREAMER:  Any one of three species of South American birds constituting the family Anhimidæ, and the suborder Palamedeæ. They have two spines on each wing, and the head is either crested or horned. They are easily tamed, and then serve as guardians for other poultry. The crested screamers, or chajas, belong to the genus Chauna. The horned screamer, or kamichi, is Palamedea cornuta. 

SCREE:  A pebble; a stone; also, a heap of stones or rocky débris. [Prov. Eng.] Southey. 

SCREECH:  To utter a harsh, shrill cry; to make a sharp outcry, as in terror or acute pain; to scream; to shriek. "The screech owl, screeching loud." Shak. 

SCREECH:  A harsh, shrill cry, as of one in acute pain or in fright; a shriek; a scream. Screech bird, or Screech thrush (Zoöl.), the fieldfare; -- so called from its harsh cry before rain.  -- Screech rain.  -- Screech hawk (Zoöl.), the European goatsucker; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] -- Screech owl. (Zoöl.) (a) A small American owl (Scops asio), either gray or reddish in color. (b) The European barn owl. The name is applied also to other species. 

SCREECHERS:  The picarian birds, as distinguished from the singing birds. 

SCREECHY:  Like a screech; shrill and harsh. 

SCREEN:  A dwarf wall or partition carried up to a certain height for separation and protection, as in a church, to separate the aisle from the choir, or the like.  3. A surface, as that afforded by a curtain, sheet, wall, etc., upon which an image, as a picture, is thrown by a magic lantern, solar microscope, etc.  4. A long, coarse riddle or sieve, sometimes a revolving perforated cylinder, used to separate the coarser from the finer parts, as of coal, sand, gravel, and the like. 

SCREENINGS:  The refuse left after screening sand, coal, ashes, etc. 

SCREW:  A straight line in space with which a definite linear magnitude termed the pitch is associated (cf. 5th Pitch, 10 (b)). It is used to express the displacement of a rigid body, which may always be made to consist of a rotation about an axis combined with a translation parallel to that axis.  10. (Zoöl.)  An amphipod crustacean; as, the skeleton screw (Caprella). See Sand screw, under Sand. Archimedes screw, Compound screw, Foot screw, etc. See under Archimedes, Compound, Foot, etc.  -- A screw loose, something out of order, so that work is not done smoothly; as, there is a screw loose somewhere. H. Martineau.  -- Endless, or perpetual screw, a screw used to give motion to a toothed wheel by the action of its threads between the teeth of the wheel; -- called also a worm.  -- Lag screw. See under Lag.  -- Micrometer screw, a screw with fine threads, used for the measurement of very small spaces.  -- Right and left screw, a screw having threads upon the opposite ends which wind in opposite directions.  -- Screw alley. See Shaft alley, under Shaft.  -- Screw bean. (Bot.) (a) The curious spirally coiled pod of a leguminous tree (Prosopis pubescens) growing from Texas to California. It is used for fodder, and ground into meal by the Indians. (b) The tree itself. Its heavy hard wood is used for fuel, for fencing, and for railroad ties.  -- Screw bolt, a bolt having a screw thread on its shank, in distinction from a key bolt. See 1st Bolt, 3.  -- Screw box, a device, resembling a die, for cutting the thread on a wooden screw.  -- Screw dock. See under Dock.  -- Screw engine, a marine engine for driving a screw propeller.  -- Screw gear. See Spiral gear, under Spiral.  -- Screw jack. Same as Jackscrew.  -- Screw key, a wrench for turming a screw or nut; a spanner wrench.  -- Screw machine. (a) One of a series of machines employed in the manufacture of wood screws. (b) A machine tool resembling a lathe, having a number of cutting tools that can be caused to act on the work successively, for making screws and other turned pieces from metal rods.  -- Screw pine (Bot.), any plant of the endogenous genus Pandanus, of which there are about fifty species, natives of tropical lands from Africa to Polynesia; -- named from the spiral arrangement of the pineapple-like leaves.  -- Screw plate, a device for cutting threads on small screws, consisting of a thin steel plate having a series of perforations with internal screws forming dies.  -- Screw press, a press in which pressure is exerted by means of a screw.  -- Screw propeller, a screw or spiral bladed wheel, used in the propulsion of steam vessels; also, a steam vessel propelled by a screw.  -- Screw shell (Zoöl.), a long, slender, spiral gastropod shell, especially of the genus Turritella and allied genera. See Turritella.  -- Screw steamer, a steamship propelled by a screw.  -- Screw thread, the spiral which forms a screw.  -- Screw stone (Paleon.), the fossil stem of an encrinite.  -- Screw tree (Bot.), any plant of the genus Helicteres, consisting of about thirty species of tropical shrubs, with simple leaves and spirally twisted, five-celled capsules; -- also called twisted-horn, and twisty.  -- Screw valve, a stop valve which is opened or closed by a screw.  -- Screw worm (Zoöl.), the larva of an American fly (Compsomyia macellaria), allied to the blowflies, which sometimes deposits its eggs in the nostrils, or about wounds, in man and other animals, with fatal results.  -- Screw wrench. (a) A wrench for turning a screw. (b) A wrench with an adjustable jaw that is moved by a screw.  -- To put the screw, or screws, on, to use pressure upon, as for the purpose of extortion; to coerce.  -- To put under the screw or screws, to subject to presure; to force.  -- Wood screw, a metal screw with a sharp thread of coarse pitch, adapted to holding fast in wood. See Illust. of Wood screw, under Wood. 

SCREW:  Adapted for forming a screw by cutting; as, a screw-cutting lathe.  SCREW-DRIVER Screw"-driv`er, n.  A tool for turning screws so as to drive them into their place. It has a thin end which enters the nick in the head of the screw. 

SCREWER:  One who, or that which, screws. 

SCREWING:  a. & n. from Screw, v. t. Screwing machine. See Screw machine, under Screw. 

SCRIBABLE:  Capable of being written, or of being written upon. [R.] 

SCRIBATIOUS:  Skillful in, or fond of, writing. [Obs.] Barrow. 

SCRIBBET:  A painter's pencil. 

SCRIBBLE:  To card coarsely; to run through the scribling machine. 

SCRIBBLE:  To write without care, elegance, or value; to scrawl. If Mævius scribble in Apollo's spite. Pope. 

SCRIBBLE:  Hasty or careless writing; a writing of little value; a scrawl; as, a hasty scribble. Boyle. Neither did I but vacant seasons spend In this my scribble. Bunyan. 

SCRIBBLEMENT:  A scribble. [R.] oster. 

SCRIBBLER:  One who scribles; a literary hack. The scribbler, pinched with hunger, writes to dine. Granville. 

SCRIBBLER:  A scribbling machine. 

SCRIBBLING:  The act or process of carding coarsely. Scribbing machine, the machine used for the first carding of wool or other fiber; -- called also scribbler. 

SCRIBBLING:  Writing hastily or poorly. Ye newspaper witlings! ye pert scribbling folks! Goldsmith. 

SCRIBBLING:  The act of writing hastily or idly. 

SCRIBBLINGLY:  In a scribbling manner. 

SCRIBE:  A writer and doctor of the law; one skilled in the law and traditions; one who read and explained the law to the people. 

SCRIBE:  To cut (anything) in such a way as to fit closely to a somewhat irregular surface, as a baseboard to a floor which is out of level, a board to the curves of a molding, or the like; -- so called because the workman marks, or scribe, with the compasses the line that he afterwards cuts.  3. To score or mark with compasses or a scribing iron. Scribing iron, an iron-pointed instrument for scribing, or marking, casks and logs. 

SCRIBE:  To make a mark. With the separated points of a pair of spring dividers scribe around the edge of the templet. A. M. Mayer. 

SCRIBER:  A sharp-pointed tool, used by joiners for drawing lines on stuff; a marking awl. 

SCRIBISM:  The character and opinions of a Jewish scribe in the time of Christ. F. W. Robertson. 

SCRID:  A screed; a shred; a fragment. [R.] 

SCRIGGLE:  To wriggle. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCRIM:  Thin canvas glued on the inside of panels to prevent shrinking, checking, etc. 

SCRIMER:  A fencing master. [Obs.] Shak. 

SCRIMMAGE:  The struggle in the rush lines after the ball is put in play. 

SCRIMP:  To make too small or short; to limit or straiten; to put on short allowance; to scant; to contract; to shorten; as, to scrimp the pattern of a coat. 

SCRIMP:  Short; scanty; curtailed. 

SCRIMP:  A pinching miser; a niggard. [U.S.] 

SCRIMPING:  a. & n. from Scrimp, v. t. Scrimping bar, a device used in connection with a calico printing machine for stretching the fabric breadthwise so that it may be smooth for printing. Knight. 

SCRIMPINGLY:  In a scrimping manner. 

SCRIMPNESS:  The state of being scrimp. 

SCRIMPTION:  A small portion; a pittance; a little bit. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SCRIMSHAW:  To ornament, as shells, ivory, etc., by engraving, and (usually) rubbing pigments into the incised lines. [Sailor's cant. U.S.] 

SCRIMSHAW:  A shell, a whale's tooth, or the like, that is scrimshawed. [Sailor's cant, U.S.] 

SCRINE:  A chest, bookcase, or other place, where writings or curiosities are deposited; a shrine. [Obs.] But laid them up in immortial scrine. Spenser. 

SCRINE:  To cringe. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 

SCRINGE:  To cringe. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 

SCRIP:  A small bag; a wallet; a satchel. [Archaic] Chaucer. And in requital ope his leathern scrip. Milton. 

SCRIPPAGE:  The contents of a scrip, or wallet. [Obs.] Shak. 

SCRIPT:  Type made in imitation of handwriting.  3. (Law)  An original instrument or document.  4. Written characters; style of writing. 

SCRIPTORIUM:  In an abbey or monastery, the room set apart for writing or copying manuscripts; in general, a room devoted to writing. Writing rooms, or scriptoria, where the chief works of Latin literature . . . were copied and illuminated. J. R. Green. 

SCRIPTORY:  Of or pertaining to writing; expressed in writing; used in writing; as, scriptory wills; a scriptory reed. [R.] Swift. 

SCRIPTURAL:  Contained in the Scriptures; according to the Scriptures, or sacred oracles; biblical; as, a scriptural doctrine. 

SCRIPTURALISM:  The quality or state of being scriptural; literal adherence to the Scriptures. 

SCRIPTURALIST:  One who adheres literally to the Scriptures. 

SCRIPTURALLY:  In a scriptural manner. 

SCRIPTURALNESS:  Quality of being scriptural. 

SCRIPTURIAN:  A Scripturist. [Obs.] 

SCRIPTURIST:  One who is strongly attached to, or versed in, the Scriptures, or who endeavors to regulate his life by them. The Puritan was a Scripturist with all his heart, if as yet with imperfect intelligence . . . he cherished the scheme of looking to the Word of God as his sole and universal directory. Palfrey. 

SCRIT:  Writing; document; scroll. [Obs.] "Of every scrit and bond." Chaucer. 

SCRITCH:  A screech. [R.] Perhaps it is the owlet's scritch. Coleridge. 

SCROBICULA:  One of the smooth areas surrounding the tubercles of a sea urchin. 

SCROBICULAR:  Pertaining to, or surrounding, scrobiculæ; as, scrobicular tubercles.  SCROBICULATE; SCROBICULATED Scro*bic"u*late, Scro*bic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. scrobiculus, dim. of scrobis a ditch or trench.] (Bot.)  Having numerous small, shallow depressions or hollows; pitted.  SCROD; SCRODE Scrod, Scrode, n.  A young codfish, especially when cut open on the back and dressed. [Written also escrod.] [Local, U.S.]  SCRODDLED WARE Scrod"dled ware`.  Mottled pottery made from scraps of differently colored clays. 

SCROFULA:  A constitutional disease, generally hereditary, especially manifested by chronic enlargement and cheesy degeneration of the lymphatic glands, particularly those of the neck, and marked by a tendency to the development of chronic intractable inflammations of the skin, mucous membrane, bones, joints, and other parts, and by a diminution in the power of resistance to disease or injury and the capacity for recovery. Scrofula is now generally held to be tuberculous in character, and may develop into general or local tuberculosis (consumption). 

SCROFULIDE:  Any affection of the skin dependent on scrofula. 

SCROG:  A stunted shrub, bush, or branch. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SCROGGY:  Abounding in scrog; also, twisted; stunted. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 

SCROLL:  An ornament formed of undulations giving off spirals or sprays, usually suggestive of plant form. Roman architectural ornament is largely of some scroll pattern.  3. A mark or flourish added to a person's signature, intended to represent a seal, and in some States allowed as a substitute for a seal. [U.S.] Burrill.  4. (Geom.)  Same as Skew surface. See under Skew. Linen scroll (Arch.) See under Linen.  -- Scroll chuck (Mach.), an adjustable chuck, applicable to a lathe spindle, for centering and holding work, in which the jaws are adjusted and tightened simultaneously by turning a disk having in its face a spiral groove which is entered by teeth on the backs of the jaws.  -- Scroll saw. See under Saw. 

SCROLLED:  Formed like a scroll; contained in a scroll; adorned with scrolls; as, scrolled work. 

SCROPHULARIA:  A genus of coarse herbs having small flowers in panicled cymes; figwort. 

SCROPHULARIACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of gamopetalous plants (Scrophulariaceæ, or Scrophularineæ), usually having irregular didynamous flowers and a two-celled pod. The order includes the mullein, foxglove, snapdragon, figwort, painted cup, yellow rattle, and some exotic trees, as the Paulownia. 

SCROTAL:  Of or pertaining to the scrotum; as, scrotal hernia. 

SCROTIFORM:  Purse-shaped; pouch-shaped. 

SCROTOCELE:  A rupture or hernia in the scrotum; scrotal hernia. 

SCROTUM:  The bag or pouch which contains the testicles; the cod. 

SCROUGE:  To crowd; to squeeze. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 

SCROYLE:  A mean fellow; a wretch. [Obs.] hak. 

SCRUB:  To rub hard; to wash with rubbing; usually, to rub with a wet brush, or with something coarse or rough, for the purpose of cleaning or brightening; as, to scrub a floor, a doorplate. 

SCRUB:  To rub anything hard, especially with a wet brush; to scour; hence, to be diligent and penurious; as, to scrub hard for a living. 

SCRUB:  One of the commen live stock of a region of no particular breed or not of pure breed, esp. when inferior in size, etc. [U.S.] Scrub bird (Zoöl.), an Australian passerine bird of the family Atrichornithidæ, as Atrichia clamosa; -- called also brush bird.  -- Scrub oak (Bot.), the popular name of several dwarfish species of oak. The scrub oak of New England and the Middle States is Quercus ilicifolia, a scraggy shrub; that of the Southern States is a small tree (Q. Catesbæi); that of the Rocky Mountain region is Q. undulata, var. Gambelii.  -- Scrub robin (Zoöl.), an Australian singing bird of the genus Drymodes. 

SCRUB:  Mean; dirty; contemptible; scrubby. How solitary, how scrub, does this town lokk! Walpole. No little scrub joint shall come on my board. Swift. Scrub game, a game, as of ball, by unpracticed players.  -- Scrub race, a race between scrubs, or between untrained animals or contestants. 

SCRUBBED:  Dwarfed or stunted; scrubby. 

SCRUBBER:  A gas washer. See under Gas. 

SCRUBBOARD:  A baseboard; a mopboard. 

SCRUBBY:  Of the nature of scrub; small and mean; stunted in growth; as, a scrubby cur. "Dense, scrubby woods." Duke of Argull. 

SCRUBSTONE:  A species of calciferous sandstone. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCRUFF:  Scurf. [Obs.] 

SCRUFF:  The nape of the neck; the loose outside skin, as of the back of the neck. 

SCRUMMAGE:  See Scrimmage. 

SCRUMPTIOUS:  Nice; particular; fastidious; excellent; fine. [Slang] 

SCRUNCH:  To scranch; to crunch. Dickens. 

SCRUPLE:  To be reluctant or to hesitate, as regards an action, on account of considerations of conscience or expedience. We are often over-precise, scrupling to say or do those things which lawfully we may. Fuller. Men scruple at the lawfulness of a set form of divine worship. South. 

SCRUPLER:  One who scruples. 

SCRUPULIST:  A scrupler. [Obs.] 

SCRUPULIZE:  To perplex with scruples; to regard with scruples. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu. 

SCRUPULOSITY:  The quality or state of being scruppulous; doubt; doubtfulness respecting decision or action; caution or tenderness from the far of doing wrong or ofending; nice regard to exactness and propierty; precision. The first sacrilege is looked on with horror; but when they have made the breach, their scrupulosity soon retires. Dr. H. More. Careful, even to scrupulosity, . . . to keep their Sabbath. South. 

SCRUTABLE:  Discoverable by scrutiny, inquiry, or critical examination. [R.] r. H. More. 

SCRUTATION:  Search; scrutiny. [Obs.] 

SCRUTATOR:  One who scrutinizes; a close examiner or inquirer. Ayliffe.  SCRUTIN DE LISTE Scru`tin" de liste" (skrus`taN" de lest). [F., voting by list.]  Voting for a group of candidates for the same kind of office on one ticket or ballot, containing a list of them; -- the method, used in France, as from June, 1885, to Feb., 1889, in elections for the Chamber of Deputies, each elector voting for the candidates for the whole department in which he lived, as disting. from scrutin d'arrondissement (da`rôN`des`mäN"), or voting by each elector for the candidate or candidates for his own arrondissement only. 

SCRUTINEER:  A scrutinizer; specifically, an examiner of votes, as at an election. 

SCRUTINIZE:  To examine closely; to inspect or observe with critical attention; to regard narrowly; as, to scrutinize the measures of administration; to scrutinize the conduct or motives of individuals. Whose votes they were obliged to scrutinize. Ayliffe. Thscrutinized his face the closest. G. W. Cable. 

SCRUTINIZE:  To make scrutiny. 

SCRUTINIZER:  One who scrutinizes. 

SCRUTINOUS:  Closely examining, or inquiring; careful; sctrict.  -- Scru"ti*nous*ly, adv. 

SCRUTINY:  An examination of catechumens, in the last week of Lent, who were to receive baptism on Easter Day.  3. (Canon Law)  A ticket, or little paper billet, on which a vote is written.  4. (Parliamentary Practice)  An examination by a committee of the votes given at an election, for the purpose of correcting the poll. Brande & C. 

SCRUTINY:  To scrutinize. [Obs.] 

SCRUTOIRE:  A escritoire; a writing desk. 

SCRUZE:  To squeeze, compress, crush, or bruise. [Obs. or Low] Spenser. 

SCRY:  To descry. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SCRY:  A flock of wild fowl. 

SCRY:  A cry or shout. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. 

SCUD:  To be driven swiftly, or to run, before a gale, with little or no sail spread. 

SCUD:  To pass over quickly. [R.] Shenstone. 

SCUD:  A small flight of larks, or other birds, less than a flock. [Prov. Eng.]  5. (Zoöl.)  Any swimming amphipod crustacean. Storm scud. See the Note under Cloud. 

SCUDDLE:  To run hastily; to hurry; to scuttle. 

SCUFF:  The back part of the neck; the scruff. [Prov. Eng.] Ld. Lytton. 

SCUFF:  To walk without lifting the feet; to proceed with a scraping or dragging movement; to shuffle. 

SCUG:  To hide. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SCUG:  A place of shelter; the declivity of a hill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  SCULK; SCULKER Sculk, Sculk"er.  See Skulk, Skulker. 

SCULL:  The skull. [Obs.] 

SCULL:  A shoal of fish. Milton. 

SCULL:  The common skua gull. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCULL:  To impel (a boat) with a pair of sculls, or with a single scull or oar worked over the stern obliquely from side to side. 

SCULL:  To impel a boat with a scull or sculls. 

SCULLION:  A scalion. 

SCULLION:  A servant who cleans pots and kettles, and does other menial services in the kitchen. The meanest scullion that followed his camp. South. 

SCULLIONLY:  Like a scullion; base. [Obs.] Milton. 

SCULP:  To sculpture; to carve; to engrave. [Obs. or Humorous.] Sandys. 

SCULPTILE:  Formed by carving; graven; as, sculptile images. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SCULPTRESS:  A female sculptor. 

SCULPTURAL:  Of or pertaining to sculpture. G. Eliot. 

SCULPTURE:  To form with the chisel on, in, or from, wood, stone, or metal; to carve; to engrave. Sculptured tortoise (Zoöl.), a common North American wood tortoise (Glyptemys insculpta). The shell is marked with strong grooving and ridges which resemble sculptured figures. 

SCULPTURESQUE:  After the manner of sculpture; resembling, or relating to, sculpture. 

SCUM:  To form a scum; to become covered with scum. Also used figuratively. Life, and the interest of life, have stagnated and scummed over. A. K. H. Boyd. 

SCUMBER:  To void excrement. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Massinger. 

SCUMBER:  Dung. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SCUMBLE:  To cover lighty, as a painting, or a drawing, with a thin wash of opaque color, or with color-crayon dust rubbed on with the stump, or to make any similar additions to the work, so as to produce a softened effect. 

SCUMMER:  To scumber. [Obs.] Holland. 

SCUMMER:  Excrement; scumber. [Obs.] 

SCUMMER:  An instrument for taking off scum; a skimmer. 

SCUMMY:  Covered with scum; of the nature of scum. Sir P. Sidney. 

SCUNNER:  To cause to loathe, or feel disgust at. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 

SCUNNER:  To have a feeling of loathing or disgust; hence, to have dislike, prejudice, or reluctance. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] C. Kingsley. 

SCUNNER:  A feeling of disgust or loathing; a strong prejudice; abhorrence; as, to take a scunner against some one. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Carlyle. 

SCUP:  A swing. [Local, U.S.] 

SCUP:  A marine sparoid food fish (Stenotomus chrysops, or S. argyrops), common on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It appears bright silvery when swimming in the daytime, but shows broad blackish transverse bands at night and when dead. Called also porgee, paugy, porgy, scuppaug.  Note: The same names are also applied to a closely allied Southern species. (Stenotomus Gardeni). 

SCUPPAUG:  See 2d Scup. 

SCUPPER:  An opening cut through the waterway and bulwarks of a ship, so that water falling on deck may flow overboard; -- called also scupper hole.  Scupper hose (Naut.), a pipe of leather, canvas, etc., attached to the mouth of the scuppers, on the outside of a vessel, to prevent the water from entering. Totten.  -- Scupper nail (Naut.), a nail with a very broad head, for securing the edge of the hose to the scupper.  -- Scupper plug (Naut.), a plug to stop a scupper. Totten. 

SCUPPERNONG:  An American grape, a form of Vitis vulpina, found in the Southern Atlantic States, and often cultivated. 

SCUR:  To move hastily; to scour. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SCURF:  Minute membranous scales on the surface of some leaves, as in the goosefoot. Gray. 

SCURFF:  The bull trout. [Prov. Eng.] 

SCURFINESS:  Scurf. 

SCURFY:  Having or producing scurf; covered with scurf; resembling scurf. 

SCURRIER:  One who scurries. 

SCURRILE:  Such as befits a buffoon or vulgar jester; grossly opprobrious or loudly jocose in language; scurrilous; as, scurrile taunts. The wretched affectation of scurrile laughter. Cowley. A scurrile or obscene jest will better advance you at the court of Charles than father's ancient name. Sir W. Scott. 

SCURRIT:  the lesser tern (Sterna minuta). [Prov. Eng.] 

SCURRY:  To hasten away or along; to move rapidly; to hurry; as, the rabbit scurried away. 

SCURRY:  Act of scurring; hurried movement. 

SCURVILY:  In a scurvy manner. 

SCURVINESS:  The quality or state of being scurvy; vileness; meanness. 

SCURVY:  A disease characterized by livid spots, especially about the thighs and legs, due to extravasation of blood, and by spongy gums, and bleeding from almost all the mucous membranes. It is accompanied by paleness, languor, depression, and general debility. It is occasioned by confinement, innutritious food, and hard labor, but especially by lack of fresh vegetable food, or confinement for a long time to a limited range of food, which is incapable of repairing the waste of the system. It was formerly prevalent among sailors and soldiers. Scurvy grass Etym: [Scurvy + grass; or cf. Icel. skarfakal scurvy grass.] (Bot.) A kind of cress (Cochlearia officinalis) growing along the seacoast of Northern Europe and in arctic regions. It is a remedy for the scurvy, and has proved a valuable food to arctic explorers. The name is given also to other allied species of plants. 

SCUT:  The tail of a hare, or of a deer, or other animal whose tail is short, sp. when carried erect; hence, sometimes, the animal itself. "He ran like a scut." Skelton. How the Indian hare came to have a long tail, wheras that part in others attains no higher than a scut. Sir T. Browne. My doe with the black scut. Shak. 

SCUTA:  See Scutum. 

SCUTAGE:  Shield money; commutation of service for a sum of money. See Escuage. 

SCUTAL:  Of or pertaining to a shield. A good example of these scutal monstrosities. Cussans. 

SCUTATE:  Protected or covered by bony or horny plates, or large scales. 

SCUTCHEONED:  Emblazoned on or as a shield. Scutcheoned panes in cloisters old. Lowell. 

SCUTCHER:  A kind of pasture grass (Cynodon Dactylon). See Bermuda grass: also Illustration in Appendix. 

SCUTE:  A bony scale of a reptile or fish; a large horny scale on the leg of a bird, or on the belly of a snake. 

SCUTELLA:  See Scutellum. 

SCUTELLA:  See Scutellum, n., 2.  SCUTELLATE; SCUTELLATED Scu"tel*late, Scu"tel*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. scutella a dish, salver. Cf. Scuttle a basket.]  1. (Zoöl.)  Formed like a plate or salver; composed of platelike surfaces; as, the scutellated bone of a sturgeon. Woodward.  2. Etym: [See Scutellum.] (Zoöl.)  Having the tarsi covered with broad transverse scales, or scutella; -- said of certain birds. 

SCUTELLATION:  the entire covering, or mode of arrangement, of scales, as on the legs and feet of a bird. 

SCUTELLIFORM:  Having the form of a scutellum. 

SCUTELLIPLANTAR:  Having broad scutella on the front, and small scales on the posterior side, of the tarsus; -- said of certain birds. 

SCUTELLUM:  A rounded apothecium having an elevated rim formed of the proper thallus, the fructification of certain lichens.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The third of the four pieces forming the upper part of a thoracic segment of an insect. It follows the scutum, and is followed by the small postscutellum; a scutella. See Thorax. (b) One of the transverse scales on the tarsi and toes of birds; a scutella. 

SCUTIBRANCH:  Scutibranchiate.  -- n.  One of the Scutibranchiata. 

SCUTIBRANCHIA:  Same as Scutibranchiata. 

SCUTIBRANCHIAN:  One of the Scutibranchiata. 

SCUTIBRANCHIATA:  An order of gastropod Mollusca having a heart with two auricles and one ventricle. The shell may be either spiral or shieldlike.  Note: It is now usually regarded as including only the Rhipidoglossa and the Docoglossa. When originally established, it included a heterogenous group of mollusks having shieldlike shells, such as Haliotis, Fissurella, Carinaria, etc. 

SCUTIBRANCHIATE:  Having the gills protected by a shieldlike shell; of or pertaining to the Scutibranchiata.  -- n.  One of the Scutibranchiata. 

SCUTIFEROUS:  Carrying a shield or buckler. 

SCUTIFORM:  Shield-shaped; scutate. 

SCUTIGER:  Any species of chilopod myriapods of the genus Scutigera. They sometimes enter buildings and prey upon insects. 

SCUTIPED:  Having the anterior surface of the tarsus covered with scutella, or transverse scales, in the form of incomplete bands terminating at a groove on each side; -- said of certain birds. 

SCUTTER:  To run quickly; to scurry; to scuttle. [Prov. Eng.]  A mangy little jackal . . . cocked up his ears and tail, and scuttered across the shallows. Kipling. 

SCUTTLE:  To run with affected precipitation; to hurry; to bustle; to scuddle. With the first dawn of day, old Janet was scuttling about the house to wake the baron. Sir W. Scott. 

SCUTTLE:  A quick pace; a short run. Spectator. 

SCUTUM:  An oblong shield made of boards or wickerwork covered with leather, with sometimes an iron rim; -- carried chiefly by the heavy- armed infantry.  2. (O. Eng. Law)  A penthouse or awning. [Obs.] Burrill.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) The second and largest of the four parts forming the upper surface of a thoracic segment of an insect. It is preceded by the prescutum and followed by the scutellum. See the Illust. under Thorax. (b) One of the two lower valves of the operculum of a barnacle. 

SCYBALA:  Hardened masses of feces. 

SCYE:  Arm scye, a cutter's term for the armhole or part of the armhole of the waist of a garnment. [Cant] 

SCYLE:  To hide; to secrete; to conceal. [Obs.] 

SCYLLA:  A dangerous rock on the Italian coast opposite the whirpool Charybdis on the coast of Sicily, -- both personified in classical literature as ravenous monsters. The passage between them was formerly considered perilous; hence, the saying "Between Scylla and Charybdis," signifying a great peril on either hand. 

SCYLLAEA:  A genus of oceanic nudibranchiate mollusks having the small branched gills situated on the upper side of four fleshy lateral lobes, and on the median caudal crest.  Note: In color and form these mollusks closely imitate the fronds of sargassum and other floathing seaweeds among which they live. 

SCYLLARIAN:  One of a family (Scyllaridæ) of macruran Crustacea, remarkable for the depressed form of the body, and the broad, flat antennæ. Also used adjectively. 

SCYLLITE:  A white crystalline substance of a sweetish taste, resembling inosite and metameric with dextrose. It is extracted from the kidney of the dogfish (of the genus Scylium), the shark, and the skate. 

SCYMETAR:  See Scimiter. 

SCYPHA:  See Scyphus, 2 (b). 

SCYPHIFORM:  Cup-shaped. 

SCYPHISTOMA:  The young attached larva of Discophora in the stage when it resembles a hydroid, or actinian. 

SCYPHOBRANCHII:  An order of fishes including the blennioid and gobioid fishes, and other related families.  SCYPHOMEDUSA; SCYPHOMEDUSAE Scy`pho*me*du"sa, Scy`pho*me*du"sae, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. medusa.] (Zoöl.)  Same as Acraspeda, or Discophora. 

SCYPHOPHORI:  An order of fresh-water fishes inhabiting tropical Africa. They have rudimentary electrical organs on each side of the tail. 

SCYPHUS:  A kind of large drinking cup, -- used by Greeks and Romans, esp. by poor folk.  2. (Bot.) (a) The cup of a narcissus, or a similar appendage to the corolla in other flowers. (b) A cup-shaped stem or podetium in lichens. Also called scypha. See Illust. of Cladonia pyxidata, under Lichen. 

SCYTHE:  A scythe-shaped blade attached to ancient war chariots. 

SCYTHE:  To cut with a scythe; to cut off as with a scythe; to mow. [Obs.] Time had not scythed all that youth begun. Shak. 

SCYTHED:  Armed scythes, as a chariot. Chariots scythed, On thundering axles rolled. Glover. 

SCYTHEMAN:  One who uses a scythe; a mower. Macaulay. 

SCYTHESTONE:  A stone for sharpening scythes; a whetstone. 

SCYTHEWHET:  Wilson's thrush; -- so called from its note. [Local, U.S.] 

SCYTHIAN:  Of or pertaining to Scythia (a name given to the northern part of Asia, and Europe adjoining to Asia), or its language or inhabitants. Scythian lamb. (Bot.) See Barometz. 

SCYTODERMATA:  Same as Holothurioidea. 

SDAIN:  Disdain. [Obs.] Spenser.  'SDEATH 'Sdeath, interj. Etym: [Corrupted fr. God's death.]  An exclamation expressive of impatience or anger. Shak. 

SDEIGN:  To disdain. [Obs.] But either sdeigns with other to partake. Spenser. 

SEA:  A great brazen laver in the temple at Jerusalem; -- so called from its size. He made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in compass, and five cubits the height thereof. 2 Chron. iv. 2.  6. Fig.: Anything resembling the sea in vastness; as, a sea of glory. Shak. All the space . . . was one sea of heads. Macaulay.  Note: Sea is often used in the composition of words of obvious signification; as, sea-bathed, sea-beaten, sea-bound, sea-bred, sea- circled, sealike, sea-nursed, sea-tossed, sea-walled, sea-worn, and the like. It is also used either adjectively or in combination with substantives; as, sea bird, sea-bird, or seabird, sea acorn, or sea- acorn. At sea, upon the ocean; away from land; figuratively, without landmarks for guidance; lost; at the mercy of circumstances. "To say the old man was at sea would be too feeble an expression." G. W. Cable -- At full sea at the height of flood tide; hence, at the height. "But now God's mercy was at full sea." Jer. Taylor.  -- Beyond seas, or Beyond the sea or the seas (Law), out of the state, territory, realm, or country. Wharton.  -- Half seas over, half drunk. [Colloq.] Spectator.  -- Heavy sea, a sea in which the waves run high.  -- Long sea, a sea characterized by the uniform and steady motion of long and extensive waves.  -- Short sea, a sea in which the waves are short, broken, and irregular, so as to produce a tumbling or jerking motion.  -- To go to sea, a adopt the calling or occupation of a sailor.  SEA ACORN Sea" a"corn. (Zoöl.)  An acorn barnacle (Balanus).  SEA ADDER Sea" ad"der. (Zoöl.) (a) The European fifteen-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus spinachia); -- called also bismore. (b) The European tanglefish, or pipefish (Syngnathus acus).  SEA ANCHOR Sea" an"chor. (Naut.)  See Drag sail, under 4th Drag.  SEA ANEMONE Sea" a*nem"o*ne. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of soft-bodied Anthozoa, belonging to the order Actrinaria; an actinian.  Note: They have the oral disk surrounded by one or more circles of simple tapering tentacles, which are often very numerous, and when expanded somewhat resemble the petals of flowers, with colors varied and often very beautiful.  SEA APE Sea" ape`. (Zoöl.) (a) The thrasher shark. (b) The sea otter.  SEA APPLE Sea" ap"ple. (Bot.)  The fruit of a West Indian palm (Manicaria Plukenetii), often found floating in the sea. A. Grisebach.  SEA ARROW Sea" ar"row. (Zoöl.)  A squid of the genus Ommastrephes. See Squid.  SEA BANK Sea" bank`.  1. The seashore. Shak.  2. A bank or mole to defend against the sea.  SEA-BAR Sea"-bar`, n. (Zoöl.)  A tern.  SEA BARROW Sea" bar"row. (Zoöl.)  A sea purse.  SEA BASS Sea" bass`.  ((Zoöl.) (a) A large marine food fish (Serranus, or Centropristis, atrarius) which abounds on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It is dark bluish, with black bands, and more or less varied with small white spots and blotches. Called also, locally, blue bass, black sea bass, blackfish, bluefish, and black perch. (b) A California food fish (Cynoscion nobile); -- called also white sea bass, and sea salmon.  SEA BAT Sea" bat`. (Zoöl.)  See Batfish (a). 

SEABEACH:  A beach lying along the sea. "The bleak seabeach." Longfellow.  SEA BEAN Sea" bean. (Bot.)  Same as Florida bean.  SEA BEAR Sea" bear`. (Zoöl.) (a) Any fur seal. See under Fur. (b) The white bear. 

SEABEARD:  A green seaweed (Cladophora rupestris) growing in dense tufts.  SEA BEAST Sea" beast`. (Zoöl.)  Any large marine mammal, as a seal, walrus, or cetacean.  SEA BIRD Sea" bird`. (Zoöl.)  Any swimming bird frequenting the sea; a sea fowl.  SEA BLITE Sea" blite`. (Bot.)  A plant (Suæda maritima) of the Goosefoot family, growing in salt marches.  SEA-BLUBBER Sea"-blub"ber, n. (Zoöl.)  A jellyfish. 

SEABOARD:  The seashore; seacoast. Ld. Berners. 

SEABOARD:  Bordering upon, or being near, the sea; seaside; seacoast; as, a seaboard town. 

SEABOARD:  Toward the sea. [R.] 

SEABOAT:  A chitin. 

SEABORD:  See Seaboard.  SEA-BORDERING Sea"-bor"der*ing, a.  Bordering on the sea; situated beside the sea. Drayton.  SEA-BORN Sea"-born`, a.  1. Born of the sea; produced by the sea. "Neptune and his sea-born niece." Waller.  2. Born at sea. 

SEABOUND:  Bounded by the sea.  SEA BOW Sea" bow`.  See Marine rainbow, under Rainbow.  SEA BOY Sea" boy`.  A boy employed on shipboard.  SEA BREACH Sea" breach`.  A breaking or overflow of a bank or a dike by the sea. L'Estrange.  SEA BREAM Sea" bream`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of sparoid fishes, especially the common European species (Pagellus centrodontus), the Spanish (P. Oweni), and the black sea bream (Cantharus lineatus); -- called also old wife.  SEA BRIEF Sea" brief`.  Same as Sea letter.  SEA BUG Sea" bug`. (Zoöl.)  A chiton.  SEA-BUILT Sea"-built`, a.  Built at, in, or by the sea.  SEA BUTTERFLY Sea" but"ter*fly`. (Zoöl.)  A pteropod.  SEA CABBAGE Sea" cab"bage (; 48). (Bot.)  See Sea kale, under Kale.  SEA CALF Sea" calf`. (Zoöl.)  The common seal.  SEA CANARY Sea" ca*na"ry. Etym: [So called from a whistling sound which it makes.] (Zoöl.)  The beluga, or white whale.  SEA CAPTAIN Sea" cap"tain.  The captain of a vessel that sails upon the sea.  SEA CARD Sea" card`.  Mariner's card, or compass.  SEA CATFISH; SEA CAT Sea" cat`fish. Sea" cat`. (Zoöl.) (a) The wolf fish. (b) Any marine siluroid fish, as Ælurichthys marinus, and Arinus felis, of the eastern coast of the United States. Many species are found on the coasts of Central and South America.  SEA CHART Sea" chart`.  A chart or map on which the lines of the shore, islands, shoals, harbors, etc., are delineated.  SEA CHICKWEED Sea" chick"weed`. (Bot.)  A fleshy plant (Arenaria peploides) growing in large tufts in the sands of the northern Atlantic seacoast; -- called also sea sandwort, and sea purslane.  SEA CLAM Sea" clam`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of the large bivalve mollusks found on the open seacoast, especially those of the family Mactridæ, as the common American species. (Mactra, or Spisula, solidissima); -- called also beach clam, and surf clam.  SEA COAL Sea" coal`.  Coal brought by sea; -- a name by which mineral coal was formerly designated in the south of England, in distinction from charcoal, which was brought by land. Sea-coal facing (Founding), facing consisting of pulverized bituminous coal. 

SEACOAST:  The shore or border of the land adjacent to the sea or ocean. Also used adjectively.  SEA COB Sea" cob`. (Zoöl.)  The black-backed gull.  SEA COCK Sea" cock`.  1. In a steamship, a cock or valve close to the vessel's side, for closing a pipe which communicates with the sea.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The black-bellied plover. (b) A gurnard, as the European red gurnard (Trigla pini).  SEA COCOA Sea" co"coa. (Bot.)  A magnificent palm (Lodoicea Sechellarum) found only in the Seychelles Islands. The fruit is an immense two-lobed nut. It was found floating in the Indian Ocean before the tree was known, and called sea cocoanut, and double cocoanut.  SEA COLANDER Sea" col"an*der. (Bot.)  A large blackfish seaweed (Agarum Turneri), the frond of which is punctured with many little holes.  SEA COLEWORT Sea" cole"wort`. (Bot.)  Sea cabbage.  SEA COMPASS Sea" com"pass.  The mariner's compass. See under Compass.  SEA COOT Sea" coot`. (Zoöl.)  A scoter duck.  SEA CORN Sea" corn`. (Zoöl.)  A yellow cylindrical mass of egg capsule of certain species of whelks (Buccinum), which resembles an ear of maize.  SEA COW Sea" cow`. (Zoöl.) (a) The mantee. (b) The dugong. (c) The walrus.  SEA CRAWFISH; SEA CRAYFISH Sea" craw"fish`. Sea" cray"fish`. (Zoöl.)  Any crustacean of the genus Palinurus and allied genera, as the European spiny lobster (P. vulgaris), which is much used as an article of food. See Lobster.  SEA CROW Sea" crow`. (Zoöl.) (a) The chough. [Ireland] (b) The cormorant. (c) The blackheaded pewit, and other gulls. (d) The skua. (e) The razorbill. [Orkney Islands] (f) The coot.  SEA CUCUMBER Sea" cu"cum*ber. (Zoöl.)  Any large holothurian, especially one of those belonging to the genus Pentacta, or Cucumaria, as the common American and European species. (P. frondosa).  SEA DACE Sea" dace`. (Zoöl.)  The European sea perch.  SEA DAFFODIL Sea" daf"fo*dil. (Bot.)  A European amarylidaceous plant (Pancratium maritimum).  SEA DEVIL Sea" dev`il (Zoöl.) (a) Any very large ray, especially any species of the genus Manta or Cepholoptera, some of which become more than twenty feet across and weigh several tons. See also Ox ray, under Ox. (b) Any large cephalopod, as a large Octopus, or a giant squid (Architeuthis). See Devilfish. (c) The angler.  SEA DOG Sea" dog`.  1. (Zoöl.)  The dogfish. (b) The common seal.  2. An old sailor; a salt. [Colloq.]  SEA DOTTEREL Sea" dot"ter*el. (Zoöl.)  The turnstone.  SEA DOVE Sea" dove`. (Zoöl.)  The little auk, or rotche. See Illust. of Rotche.  SEA DRAGON Sea" drag"on. (Zoöl.) (a) A dragonet, or sculpin. (b) The pegasus.  SEA DRAKE Sea" drake`. (Zoöl.)  The pewit gull.  SEA DUCK Sea" duck`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of ducks which frequent the seacoasts and feed mainly on fishes and mollusks. The scoters, eiders, old squaw, and ruddy duck are examples. They may be distinguished by the lobate hind toe.  SEA EAGLE Sea" ea"gle.  1. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of fish-eating eagles of the genus Haliæetus and allied genera, as the North Pacific sea eagle. (H. pelagicus), which has white shoulders, head, rump, and tail; the European white-tailed eagle (H. albicilla); and the Indian white- tailed sea eagle, or fishing eagle (Polioaëtus ichthyaëtus). The bald eagle and the osprey are also sometimes classed as sea eagles.  2. (Zoöl.)  The eagle ray. See under Ray.  SEA-EAR Sea"-ear`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any species of ear-shaped shells of the genus Haliotis. See Abalone.  SEA EEL Sea" eel`. (Zoöl.)  The conger eel.  SEA EGG Sea" egg`. (Zoöl.)  A sea urchin.  SEA ELEPHANT Sea" el"e*phant. (Zoöl.)  A very large seal (Macrorhinus proboscideus) of the Antarctic seas, much hunted for its oil. It sometimes attains a length of thirty feet, and is remarkable for the prolongation of the nose of the adult male into an erectile elastic proboscis, about a foot in length. Another species of smaller size (M. angustirostris) occurs on the coast of Lower California, but is now nearly extinct.  SEA FAN Sea" fan". (Zoöl.)  Any gorgonian which branches in a fanlike form, especially Gorgonia flabellum of Florida and the West Indies. 

SEAFARER:  One who follows the sea as a business; a mariner; a sailor. 

SEAFARING:  Following the business of a mariner; as, a seafaring man.  SEA FEATHER Sea" feath"er. (Zoöl.)  Any gorgonian which branches in a plumelike form.  SEA FENNEL Sea" fen"nel. (Bot.)  Samphire.  SEA FERN Sea" fern". (Zoöl.)  Any gorgonian which branches like a fern.  SEA FIGHT Sea" fight`.  An engagement between ships at sea; a naval battle.  SEA FIR Sea" fir`. (Zoöl.)  A sertularian hydroid, especially Sertularia abietina, which branches like a miniature fir tree.  SEA FLOWER Sea" flow"er. (Zoöl.)  A sea anemone, or any related anthozoan.  SEA FOAM Sea" foam`.  1. Foam of sea water.  2. (Min.)  Meerschaum; -- called also sea froth.  SEA FOWL Sea" fowl`. (Zoöl.)  Any bird which habitually frequents the sea, as an auk, gannet, gull, tern, or petrel; also, all such birds, collectively.  SEA FOX Sea" fox`. (Zoöl.)  The thrasher shark. See Thrasher.  SEA FROTH Sea" froth`.  See Sea foam, 2.  SEA-GATE; SEA-GAIT Sea"-gate`, Sea"-gait`, n.  A long, rolling swell of the sea. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  SEA GAUGE Sea" gauge`.  See under Gauge, n.  SEA GHERKIN; SEA GIRKIN Sea" gher`kin, or; Sea" gir"kin. (Zoöl.)  Any small holothurian resembling in form a gherkin.  SEA GINGER Sea" gin"ger. (Zoöl.)  A hydroid coral of the genus Millepora, especially M. alcicornis, of the West Indies and Florida. So called because it stings the tongue like ginger. See Illust. under Millepore.  SEA GIRDLES Sea" gir"dles. (Bot.)  A kind of kelp (Laminaria digitata) with palmately cleft fronds; -- called also sea wand, seaware, and tangle. 

SEAGIRT:  Surrounded by the water of the sea or ocean; as, a seagirt isle. Milton.  SEA GOD Sea" god`.  A marine deity; a fabulous being supposed to live in, or have dominion over, the sea, or some particular sea or part of the sea, as Neptune.  SEA GODDESS Sea" god"dess.  A goddess supposed to live in or reign over the sea, or some part of the sea. 

SEAGOING:  Going upon the sea; especially, sailing upon the deep sea; -- used in distinction from coasting or river, as applied to vessels.  SEA GOOSE Sea" goose`. (Zoöl.)  A phalarope.  SEA GOWN Sea" gown`.  A gown or frock with short sleeves, formerly worn by mariners. Shak.  SEA GRAPE Sea" grape`.  1. (Bot.) (a) The gulf weed. See under Gulf. (b) A shrubby plant (Coccoloba uvifera) growing on the sandy shores of tropical America, somewhat resembling the grapevine.  2. pl. (Zoöl.)  The clusters of gelatinous egg capsules of a squid (Loligo).  SEA GRASS Sea" grass`. (Bot.)  Eelgrass.  SEA GREEN Sea" green`.  The green color of sea water.  SEA-GREEN Sea"-green`, a.  Of a beautiful bluish green color, like sea water on soundings.  SEA GUDGEON Sea" gud"geon. (Zoöl.)  The European black goby (Gobius niger).  SEA GULL Sea" gull`. (Zoöl.)  Any gull living on the seacoast. 

SEAH:  A Jewish dry measure containing one third of an an ephah.  SEA HARE Sea" hare`. (Zoöl.)  Any tectibranchiate mollusk of the genus Aplysia. See Aplysia.  SEA HAWK Sea" hawk`. (Zoöl.)  A jager gull.  SEA HEATH Sea" heath`. (Bot.)  A low perennial plant (Frankenia lævis) resembling heath, growing along the seashore in Europe.  SEA HEDGEHOG Sea" hedge"hog`. (Zoöl.)  A sea urchin.  SEA HEN Sea" hen`. (Zoöl.)  the common guillemot; -- applied also to various other sea birds.  SEA HOG Sea" hog`. (Zoöl.)  The porpoise.  SEA HOLLY Sea" hol"ly. (Bot.)  An evergeen seashore plant (Eryngium maritimum). See Eryngium.  SEA HOLM Sea" holm`.  A small uninhabited island.  SEA HOLM Sea" holm`. (Bot.)  Sea holly.  SEA HORSE Sea" horse`.  1. A fabulous creature, half horse and half fish, represented in classic mythology as driven by sea dogs or ridden by the Nereids. It is also depicted in heraldry. See Hippocampus.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The walrus. (b) Any fish of the genus Hippocampus.  Note: In a passage of Dryden's, the word is supposed to refer to the hippopotamus.  SEA HULVER Sea" hul"ver. (Bot.)  Sea holly.  SEA-ISLAND Sea"-is`land, a.  Of or pertaining to certain islands along the coast of South Carolina and Georgia; as, sea-island cotton, a superior cotton of long fiber produced on those islands.  SEA JELLY Sea" jel"ly. (Zoöl.)  A medusa, or jellyfish. 

SEAK:  Soap prepared for use in milling cloth.  SEA KALE Sea" kale". (Bot.)  See under Kale.  SEA KING Sea" king`.  One of the leaders among the Norsemen who passed their lives in roving the seas in search of plunder and adventures; a Norse pirate chief. See the Note under Viking. 

SEAL:  Any aquatic carnivorous mammal of the families Phocidæ and Otariidæ.  Note: Seals inhabit seacoasts, and are found principally in the higher latitudes of both hemispheres. There are numerous species, bearing such popular names as sea lion, sea leopard, sea bear, or ursine seal, fur seal, and sea elephant. The bearded seal (Erignathus barbatus), the hooded seal (Cystophora crustata), and the ringed seal (Phoca foetida), are northern species. See also Eared seal, Harp seal, and Fur seal, under Eared, Harp, Monk, and Fur. Seals are much hunted for their skins and fur, and also for their oil, which in some species is very abundant. Harbor seal (Zoöl.), the common seal (Phoca vitulina). It inhabits both the North Atlantic and the North Pacific Ocean, and often ascends rivers; -- called also marbled seal, native seal, river seal, bay seal, land seal, sea calf, sea cat, sea dog, dotard, ranger, selchie, tangfish. 

SEAL:  To affix one's seal, or a seal. [Obs.] I will seal unto this bond. Shak.  SEA LACES Sea" la"ces. (Bot.)  A kind of seaweed (Chorda Filum) having blackish cordlike fronds, often many feet long.  SEA LAMPREY Sea" lam"prey. (Zoöl.)  The common lamprey.  SEA LANGUAGE Sea" lan"guage.  The peculiar language or phraseology of seamen; sailor's cant.  SEA LARK Sea" lark`. (Zoöl.) (a) The rock pipit (Anthus obscurus). (b) Any one of several small sandpipers and plovers, as the ringed plover, the turnstone, the dunlin, and the sanderling.  SEA LAVENDER Sea" lav"en*der. (Bot.)  See Marsh rosemary, under Marsh.  SEA LAWYER Sea" law"yer. (Zoöl.)  The gray snapper. See under Snapper.  SEAL-BROWN Seal"-brown`, a.  Of a rich dark brown color, like the fur of the fur seal after it is dyed.  SEA LEGS Sea" legs`.  Legs able to maintain their possessor upright in stormy weather at sea, that is, ability stand or walk steadily on deck when a vessel is rolling or pitching in a rough sea. [Sailor's Cant] Totten.  SEA LEMON Sea" lem"on. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of nudibranchiate mollusks of the genus Doris and allied genera, having a smooth, thick, convex yellow body.  SEA LEOPARD Sea" leop"ard. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of spotted seals, especially Ogmorhinus leptonyx, and Leptonychotes Weddelli, of the Antarctic Ocean. The North Pacific sea leopard is the harbor seal. 

SEALER:  One who seals; especially, an officer whose duty it is to seal writs or instruments, to stamp weights and measures, or the like. 

SEALER:  A mariner or a vessel engaged in the business of capturing seals.  SEA LETTER Sea" let"ter. (Mar. Law.)  The customary certificate of national character which neutral merchant vessels are bound to carry in time of war; a passport for a vessel and cargo.  SEA LETTUCE Sea" let"tuce. (Bot.)  The green papery fronds of several seaweeds of the genus Ulva, sometimes used as food.  SEA LEVEL Sea" lev"el.  The level of the surface of the sea; any surface on the same level with the sea.  SEALGH; SELCH Sealgh, Selch, n.. (Zoöl.)  A seal. [Scotch]  SEA LILY Sea" lil"y. (Zoöl.)  A crinoid.  SEALING WAX Seal"ing wax`.  A compound of the resinous materials, pigments, etc., used as a material for seals, as for letters, documents, etc.  SEA LION Sea" li"on. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several large species of seals of the family Otariidæ native of the Pacific Ocean, especially the southern sea lion (Otaria jubata) of the South American coast; the northern sea lion (Eumetopias Stelleri) found from California to Japan; and the black, or California, sea lion (Zalophus Californianus), which is common on the rocks near San Francisco.  SEA LOACH Sea" loach". (Zoöl.)  The three-bearded rockling. See Rockling.  SEA LOUSE Sea" louse`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of isopod crustaceans of Cymothoa, Livoneca, and allied genera, mostly parasites on fishes. 

SEALSKIN:  The skin of a seal; the pelt of a seal prepared for use, esp. of the fur seal; also, a garment made of this material. 

SEAM:  Grease; tallow; lard. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Shak. Dryden. 

SEAM:  A thin layer or stratum; a narrow vein between two thicker strata; as, a seam of coal.  4. A line or depression left by a cut or wound; a scar; a cicatrix. Seam blast, a blast by putting the powder into seams or cracks of rocks.  -- Seam lace, a lace used by carriage makers to cover seams and edges; -- called also seaming lace.  -- Seam presser. (Agric.) (a) A heavy roller to press down newly plowed furrows. (b) A tailor's sadiron for pressing seams. Knight.  -- Seam set, a set for flattering the seams of metal sheets, leather work, etc. 

SEAM:  To become ridgy; to crack open. Later their lips began to parch and seam. L. Wallace. 

SEAM:  A denomination of weight or measure. Specifically: (a) The quantity of eight bushels of grain. "A seam of oats." P. Plowman. (b) The quantity of 120 pounds of glass. [Eng.]  SEA-MAID Sea"-maid`, n.  1. The mermaid.  2. A sea nymph.  SEA-MAIL Sea"-mail`, n. Etym: [Sea + (perhaps) Mall Mally, for Mary; hence, Prov. E. mally a hare.] (Zoöl.)  A gull; the mew. 

SEAMAN:  A merman; the male of the mermaid. [R.] "Not to mention mermaids or seamen." Locke. 

SEAMAN:  One whose occupation is to assist in the management of ships at sea; a mariner; a sailor; -- applied both to officers and common mariners, but especially to the latter. Opposed to landman, or landsman. Able seaman, a sailor who is practically conversant with all the duties of common seamanship.  -- ordinary seaman. See Ordinary. 

SEAMANLIKE:  Having or showing the skill of a practical seaman. 

SEAMANSHIP:  The skill of a good seaman; the art, or skill in the art, of working a ship.  SEA MANTIS Sea" man"tis. (Zoöl.)  A squilla.  SEA MARGE Sea" marge`.  Land which borders on the sea; the seashore. Shak. You are near the sea marge of a land teeming with life. J. Burroughs. 

SEAMARK:  Any elevated object on land which serves as a guide to mariners; a beacon; a landmark visible from the sea, as a hill, a tree, a steeple, or the like. Shak.  SEA MAT Sea" mat`. (Zoöl.)  Any bryozoan of the genus Flustra or allied genera which form frondlike corals.  SEA MAW Sea" maw`. (Zoöl.)  The sea mew. 

SEAMED:  Out of condition; not in good condition; -- said of a hawk.  SEA-MELL Sea"-mell`, n. (Zoöl.)  The sea mew.  SEA MEW Sea" mew`. (Zoöl.)  A gull; the mew.  SEA MILE Sea" mile`.  A geographical mile. See Mile.  SEA MILKWORT Sea" milk"wort`. (Bot.)  A low, fleshy perennial herb (Glaux maritima) found along northern seashores. 

SEAMING:  The cord or rope at the margin of a seine, to which the meshes of the net are attached. Seaming machine, a machine for uniting the edges of sheet-metal plates by bending them and pinching them together. 

SEAMLESS:  Without a seam. Christ's seamless coat, all of a piece. Jer. Taylor.  SEA MONK Sea" monk`. (Zoöl.)  See Monk seal, under Monk.  SEA MONSTER Sea" mon"ster. (Zoöl.)  Any large sea animal.  SEA MOSS Sea" moss`. (Zoöl.)  Any branched marine bryozoan resembling moss.  SEA MOUSE Sea" mouse`. (Zoöl.) (a) A dorsibranchiate annelid, belonging to Aphrodite and allied genera, having long, slender, hairlike setæ on the sides. (b) The dunlin. 

SEAMSTER:  One who sews well, or whose occupation is to sew. [Obs.] 

SEAMSTRESS:  A woman whose occupation is sewing; a needlewoman. 

SEAMSTRESSY:  The business of a seamstress.  SEA MUD Sea" mud`.  A rich slimy deposit in salt marshes and along the seashore, sometimes used as a manure; -- called also sea ooze. 

SEAMY:  Having a seam; containing seams, or showing them. "Many a seamy scar." Burns. Everything has its fair, as well as its seamy, side. Sir W. Scott. 

SEAN:  A seine. See Seine. [Prov. Eng.] 

SEANCE:  A session, as of some public body; especially, a meeting of spiritualists to receive spirit communication, so called.  SEA NEEDLE Sea" nee"dle. (Zoöl.)  See Garfish (a).  SEA NETTLE Sea" net`tle.  A jellyfish, or medusa. 

SEANNACHIE:  A bard among the Highlanders of Scotland, who preserved and repeated the traditions of the tribes; also, a genealogist. [Written also senachy.] [Scot.]  SEA ONION Sea" on"ion. (Bot.)  The officinal squill. See Squill.  SEA OOZE Sea" ooze`.  Same as Sea mud. Mortimer.  SEA ORANGE Sea" or"ange. (Zoöl.)  A large American holothurian (Lophothuria Fabricii) having a bright orange convex body covered with finely granulated scales. Its expanded tentacles are bright red.  SEA-ORB Sea"-orb`, n. (Zoöl.)  A globefish.  SEA OTTER Sea" ot"ter. (Zoöl.)  An aquatic carnivore (Enhydris lutris, or marina) found in the North Pacific Ocean. Its fur is highly valued, especially by the Chinese. It is allied to the common otter, but is larger, with feet more decidedly webbed. Sea-otter's cabbage (Bot.), a gigantic kelp of the Pacific Ocean (Nereocystis Lutkeana). See Nereocystis.  SEA OWL Sea" owl`. (Zoöl.)  The lumpfish.  SEA PAD Sea" pad`. (Zoöl.)  The puffin.  SEA PARROT Sea" par"rot (se" par"rut). (Zoöl.)  The puffin.  SEA PARTRIDGE Sea" par"tridge. (Zoöl.)  The gilthead (Crenilabrus melops), a fish of the British coasts.  SEA PASS Sea" pass`.  A document carried by neutral merchant vessels in time of war, to show their nationality; a sea letter or passport. See Passport.  SEA PEACH Sea" peach`. (Zoöl.)  A beautiful American ascidian (Cynthia, or Halocynthia, pyriformis) having the size, form, velvety surface, and color of a ripe peach.  SEA PEAR Sea" pear`. (Zoöl.)  A pedunculated ascidian of the genus Boltonia.  SEA-PEN Sea"-pen", n. (Zoöl.)  A pennatula.  SEA PERCH Sea" perch`. (Zoöl.) (a) The European bass (Roccus, or Labrax, lupus); -- called also sea dace. (b) The cunner. (c) The sea bass. (d) The name is applied also to other species of fishes.  SEA PHEASANT Sea" pheas"ant. (Zoöl.)  The pintail duck.  SEA PIE Sea" pie. (Zoöl.)  The oyster catcher, a limicoline bird of the genus Hæmatopus.  SEA PIE Sea" pie`.  A dish of crust or pastry and meat or fish, etc., cooked together in alternate layers, -- a common food of sailors; as, a three-decker sea pie. 

SEAPIECE:  A picture representing a scene at sea; a marine picture. Addison.  SEA PIET Sea" pi"et. (Zoöl.)  See 1st Sea pie.  SEA PIG Sea" pig`. (Zoöl.) (a) A porpoise or dolphin. (b) A dugong.  SEA PIGEON Sea" pi"geon.  The common guillemot.  SEA PIKE Sea" pike`. (Zoöl.) (a) The garfish. (b) A large serranoid food fish (Centropomus undecimalis) found on both coasts of America; -- called also robalo. (c) The merluce.  SEA PINCUSHION Sea" pin`cush`ion. (Zoöl.) (a) A sea purse. (b) A pentagonal starfish.  SEA PINK Sea" pink`. (Bot.)  See Thrift.  SEA PLOVER Sea" plov"er.  the black-bellied plover.  SEA POACHER; SEA POKER Sea" poach"er. Sea" pok"er. (Zoöl.)  The lyrie.  SEA POOL Sea" pool`.  A pool of salt water. Spenser.  SEA POPPY Sea" pop"py. (Bot.)  The horn poppy. See under Horn.  SEA PORCUPINE Sea" por"cu*pine. (Zoöl.)  Any fish of the genus Diodon, and allied genera, whose body is covered with spines. See Illust. under Diodon.  SEA PORK Sea" pork`. (Zoöl.)  An American compound ascidian (Amoræcium stellatum) which forms large whitish masses resembling salt pork.  SEA PORT Sea" port`, n.  A port on the seashore, or one accessible for seagoing vessels. Also used adjectively; as, a seaport town. 

SEAPOY:  See Sepoy.  SEA PUDDING Sea" pud"ding. (Zoöl.)  Any large holothurian. [Prov. Eng.]  SEA PURSE Sea" purse`. (Zoöl.)  The horny egg case of a skate, and of certain sharks.  SEA PURSLANE Sea" purs"lane. (Bot.)  See under Purslane.  SEA PYE Sea" pye`. (Zoöl.)  See 1st Sea pie.  SEA PYOT Sea" py"ot. (Zoöl.)  See 1st Sea pie.  SEA QUAIL Sea" quail`. (Zoöl.)  The turnstone. 

SEAQUAKE:  A quaking of the sea.  SEAR; SERE Sear, Sere, a.  [OE. seer, AS. seár (assumed) fr. seárian to wither; akin to D. zoor dry, LG. soor, OHG. soren to to wither, Gr. sush) to dry, to wither, Zend hush to dry. sq. root152. Cf. Austere, Sorrel, a.] Dry; withered; no longer green; -- applied to leaves. Milton. I have lived long enough; my way of life Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf. Shak. 

SEAR:  The catch in a gunlock by which the hammer is held cocked or half cocked. Sear spring, the spring which causes the sear to catch in the notches by which the hammer is held.  SEA RAT Sea" rat`.  1. A pirate. [R.] Massinger.  2. (Zoöl.)  The chimæra.  SEA RAVEN Sea" ra"ven. (Zoöl.) (a) An American cottoid fish (Hemitripterus Americanus) allied to the sculpins, found on the northeren Atlantic coasts. (b) The cormorant. 

SEARCE:  A fine sieve. [Obs.] 

SEARCE:  To sift; to bolt. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

SEARCH:  To seek; to look for something; to make inquiry, exploration, or examination; to hunt. Once more search with me. Shak. It sufficeth that they have once with care sifted the matter, and searched into all the particulars. Locke. 

SEARCH:  The act of seeking or looking for something; quest; inquiry; pursuit for finding something; examination. Thus the orb he roamed With narrow search, and with inspection deep Considered every creature. Milton. Nor did my search of liberty begin Till my black hairs were changed upon my chin. Dryden. Right of search (Mar. Law), the right of the lawfully commissioned cruisers of belligerent nations to examine and search private merchant vessels on the high seas, for the enemy's property or for articles contraband of war.  -- Search warrant (Law), a warrant legally issued, authorizing an examination or search of a house, or other place, for goods stolen, secreted, or concealed.  Syn.  -- Scrutiny; examination; exploration; investigation; research; inquiry; quest; pursuit. 

SEARCHABLE:  Capable of being searched. 

SEARCHABLENESS:  Quality of being searchable. 

SEARCHER:  One who, or that which, searhes or examines; a seeker; an inquirer; an examiner; a trier. Specifically: (a) Formerly, an officer in London appointed to examine the bodies of the dead, and report the cause of death. Graunt. (b) An officer of the customs whose business it is to search ships, merchandise, luggage, etc. (c) An inspector of leather. [Prov. Eng.] (d) (Gun.) An instrument for examining the bore of a cannon, to detect cavities. (e) An implement for sampling butter; a butter trier. (j) (Med.) An instrument for feeling after calculi in the bladder, etc. 

SEARCHING:  Exploring thoroughly; scrutinizing; penetrating; trying; as, a searching discourse; a searching eye. "Piercing, searching, biting, cold." Dickens.  -- Search"ing*ly, adv.  -- Search"ing*ness, n. 

SEARCHLESS:  Impossible to be searched; inscrutable; impenetrable. 

SEARCLOTH:  Cerecloth. Mortimer. 

SEARCLOTH:  To cover, as a sore, with cerecloth. 

SEARED:  Scorched; cauterized; hence, figuratively, insensible; not susceptible to moral influences. A seared conscience and a remorseless heart. Macaulay. 

SEAREDNESS:  The state of being seared or callous; insensibility. Bp. Hall.  SEA REED Sea" reed`. (Bot.)  The sea-sand reed. See under Reed.  SEA RISK Sea" risk.  Risk of injury, destruction, or loss by the sea, or while at sea.  SEA ROBBER Sea" rob"ber.  A pirate; a sea rover.  SEA ROBIN Sea" rob"in.  See under Robin, and Illustration in Appendix.  SEA ROCKET Sea" rock"et.(Bot.)  See under Rocket.  SEA ROOM Sea" room`. (Naut.)  Room or space at sea for a vessel to maneuver, drive, or scud, without peril of running ashore or aground. Totten.  SEA ROVER Sea" rov"er.  One that cruises or roves the sea for plunder; a sea robber; a pirate; also, a piratical vessel.  SEA-ROVING Sea"-rov"ing  , a. Cruising at random on the ocean.  SEA SALMON Sea" salm"on. (Zoöl.) (a) A young pollock. (b) The spotted squeteague. (c) See Sea bass (b).  SEA SALT Sea" salt`.  Common salt, obtained from sea water by evaporation.  SEA SANDPIPER Sea" sand"pi`per. (Zoöl.)  The purple sandpiper.  SEA SANDWORT Sea" sand"wort`. (Bot.)  See Sea chickweed.  SEA SAURIAN Sea" sau"ri*an, n. (Zoöl.)  Any marine saurian; esp. (Paleon.) the large extinct species of Mosasaurus, Icthyosaurus, Plesiosaurus, and related genera. 

SEASCAPE:  A picture representing a scene at sea. [Jocose] Thackeray.  SEA SCORPION Sea" scor"pi*on. (Zoöl.) (a) A European sculpin (Cottus scorpius) having the head armed with short spines. (b) The scorpene.  SEA SCURF Sea" scurf`. (Zoöl.)  Any bryozoan which forms rounded or irregular patches of coral on stones, seaweeds, etc.  SEA SERPENT Sea" ser`pent.  1. (Zoöl.)  Any marine snake. See Sea snake.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large marine animal of unknown nature, often reported to have been seen at sea, but never yet captured.  Note: Many accounts of sea serpents are imaginary or fictitious; others are greatly exaggerated and distorted by incompetent observers; but a number have been given by competent and trustworthy persons, which indicate that several diverse animals have been called sea serpents. Among these are, apparently, several large snakelike fishes, as the oar fish, or ribbon fish (Regalecus), and huge conger eels. Other accounts probably refer to the giant squids (Architeuthis). Some of the best accounts seem to describe a marine saurian, like the fossil Mosasauri, which were large serpentlike creatures with paddles. 

SEASHELL:  The shell of any marine mollusk. 

SEASHORE:  All the ground between the ordinary highwater and low-water marks. 

SEASICK:  Affected with seasickness. 

SEASICKNESS:  The peculiar sickness, characterized by nausea and prostration, which is caused by the pitching or rolling of a vessel. 

SEASIDE:  The land bordering on, or adjacent to, the sea; the seashore. Also used adjectively.  SEA SLATER Sea" slat"er. (Zoöl.)  Any isopod crustacean of the genus Ligia.  SEA SLUG Sea" slug`. (Zoöl.) (a) A holothurian. (b) A nudibranch mollusk.  SEA SNAIL Sea" snail`. (Zoöl.) (a) A small fish of the genus Liparis, having a ventral sucker. It lives among stones and seaweeds. (b) Any small creeping marine gastropod, as the species of Littorina, Natica, etc.  SEA SNAKE Sea" snake`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of many species of venomous aquatic snakes of the family Hydrophidæ, having a flattened tail and living entirely in the sea, especially in the warmer parts of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. They feed upon fishes, and are mostly of moderate size, but some species become eight or ten feet long and four inches broad.  SEA SNIPE Sea" snipe`. (Zoöl.) (a) A sandpiper, as the knot and dunlin. (b) The bellows fish. 

SEASONABLE:  Occurring in good time, in due season, or in proper time for the purpose; suitable to the season; opportune; timely; as, a seasonable supply of rain. Mercy is seasonable in the time of affliction. Ecclus. xxxv. 20. -- Sea"son*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Sea"son*a*bly, adv. 

SEASONAGE:  A seasoning. [Obs.] outh. 

SEASONAL:  Of or pertaining to the seasons. Seasonal dimorphism (Zoöl.), the condition of having two distinct varieties which appear at different seasons, as certain species of butterflies in which the spring brood differs from the summer or autumnal brood. 

SEASONER:  One who, or that which, seasons, or gives a relish; a seasoning. 

SEASONLESS:  Without succession of the seasons.  SEA SPIDER Sea" spi"der. (Zoöl.) (a) Any maioid crab; a spider crab. See Maioid, and Spider crab, under Spider. (b) Any pycnogonid.  SEA SQUIRT Sea" squirt`. (Zoöl.)  An ascidian. See Illust. under Tunicata.  SEA STAR Sea" star`. (Zoöl.)  A starfish, or brittle star.  SEA SURGEON Sea" sur"geon. (Zoöl.)  A surgeon fish.  SEA SWALLOW Sea" swal"low.  1. (Zoöl.) (a) The common tern. (b) The storm petrel. (c) The gannet.  2. (Her.)  See Cornish chough, under Chough. 

SEAT:  A part or surface on which another part or surface rests; as, a valve seat. Seat worm (Zoöl.), the pinworm. 

SEAT:  To rest; to lie down. [Obs.] Spenser.  SEA TANG Sea" tang`. (Bot.)  A kind of seaweed; tang; tangle. To their nests of sedge and sea tang. Longfellow.  SEA TERM Sea" term`.  A term used specifically by seamen; a nautical word or phrase.  SEA THIEF Sea" thief`.  A pirate. Drayton.  SEA THONGS Sea" thongs`. (Bot.)  A kind of blackish seaweed (Himanthalia lorea) found on the northern coasts of the Atlantic. It has a thonglike forking process rising from a top-shaped base. 

SEATING:  The rock pipit. 

SEATLESS:  Having no seat.  SEA TOAD Sea" toad`. (Zoöl.) (a) A sculpin. (b) A toadfish. (c) The angler.  SEA TROUT Sea" trout`. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of true trouts which descend rivers and enter the sea after spawning, as the European bull trout and salmon trout, and the eastern American spotted trout. (b) The common squeteague, and the spotted squeteague. (c) A California fish of the family Chiridæ, especially Hexagrammus decagrammus; -- called also spotted rock trout. See Rock trout, under Rock. (d) A California sciænoid fish (Cynoscion nobilis); -- called also white sea bass.  SEA TRUMPET Sea" trum"pet.  1. (Bot.)  A great blackish seaweed of the Southern Ocean, having a hollow and expanding stem and a pinnate frond, sometimes twenty feet long.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any large marine univalve shell of the genus Triton. See Triton.  SEA TURN Sea" turn`.  A breeze, gale, or mist from the sea. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  SEA TURTLE Sea" tur"tle. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several very large species of chelonians having the feet converted into paddles, as the green turtle, hawkbill, loggerhead, and leatherback. They inhabit all warm seas. (b) The sea pigeon, or guillemot.  SEA UNICORN Sea" u"ni*corn. (Zoöl.)  The narwhal.  SEA URCHIN Sea" ur"chin. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of echinoderms of the order Echinoidea.  Note: When living they are covered with movable spines which are often long and sharp. 

SEAVE:  A rush. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SEAVY:  Overgrown with rushes. [Prov. Eng.]  SEA WALL Sea" wall`. Etym: [AS. sæweall.]  A wall, or embankment, to resist encroachments of the sea.  SEA-WALLED Sea"-walled`, a.  Surrounded, bounded, or protected by the sea, as if by a wall. Shak.  SEAWAN; SEAWANT Sea"wan, Sea"want, n.  The name used by the Algonquin Indians for the shell beads which passed among the Indians as money.  Note: Seawan was of two kinds; wampum, white, and suckanhock, black or purple, -- the former having half the value of the latter. Many writers, however, use the terms seawan and wampum indiscriminately. Bartlett. 

SEAWAND:  See Sea girdles. 

SEAWARD:  Directed or situated toward the sea. Donne. Two still clouds . . . sparkled on their seaward edges like a frosted fleece. G. W. Cable. 

SEAWARD:  Toward the sea. Drayton. 

SEAWARE:  Seaweed; esp., coarse seaweed. See Ware, and Sea girdles. 

SEAWEED:  Any marine plant of the class Algæ, as kelp, dulse, Fucus, Ulva, etc.  SEA WHIP Sea" whip`. (Zoöl.)  A gorgonian having a simple stem.  SEA WIDGEON Sea" wid"geon. (Zoöl.) (a) The scaup duck. (b) The pintail duck. 

SEAWIFE:  A European wrasse (Labrus vetula).  SEA WILLOW Sea" wil"low. (Zoöl.)  A gorgonian coral with long flexible branches.  SEA WING Sea" wing`. (Zoöl.)  A wing shell (Avicula).  SEA WITHWIND Sea" with"wind`.  (Bot.) A kind of bindweed (Convolvulus Soldanella) growing on the seacoast of Europe.  SEA WOLF Sea" wolf`. (Zoöl.) (a) The wolf fish. (b) The European sea perch. (c) The sea elephant. (d) A sea lion.  SEA WOODCOCK Sea" wood"cock`. (Zoöl.)  The bar-tailed godwit.  SEA WOOD LOUSE Sea" wood louse`. (Zoöl.)  A sea slater.  SEA WORMWOOD Sea" worm"wood`. (Bot.)  A European species of wormwood (Artemisia maritima) growing by the sea. 

SEAWORTHINESS:  The state or quality of being seaworthy, or able to resist the ordinary violence of wind and weather. Kent. 

SEAWORTHY:  Fit for a voyage; worthy of being trusted to transport a cargo with safety; as, a seaworthy ship.  SEA WRACK Sea" wrack`. (Bot.)  See Wrack. 

SEBACEOUS:  Pertaining to, or secreting, fat; composed of fat; having the appearance of fat; as, the sebaceous secretions of some plants, or the sebaceous humor of animals. Sebaceous cyst (Med.), a cyst formed by distention of a sebaceous gland, due to obstruction of its excretory duct.  -- Sebaceous glands (Anat.), small subcutaneous glands, usually connected with hair follicles. They secrete an oily semifluid matter, composed in great part of fat, which softens and lubricates the hair and skin. 

SEBACIC:  Of or pertaining to fat; derived from, or resembling, fat; specifically, designating an acid (formerly called also sebic, and pyroleic, acid), obtained by the distillation or saponification of certain oils (as castor oil) as a white crystalline substance. 

SEBAT:  The eleventh month of the ancient Hebrew year, approximately corresponding with February. W. Smith (Bibl. Dict. ). 

SEBATE:  A salt of sebacic acid. 

SEBESTEN:  The mucilaginous drupaceous fruit of two East Indian trees (Cordia Myxa, and C. latifolia), sometimes used medicinally in pectoral diseases.  Note: In the West Indies the name is given to the similar fruit of Cordia Sebestana. 

SEBIC:  See Sebacic. [Obs.] 

SEBIFEROUS:  Producing vegetable tallow.  2. (Physiol.)  Producing fat; sebaceous; as, the sebiferous, or sebaceous, glands. 

SEBIPAROUS:  Same as Sebiferous. 

SEBORRHEA:  A morbidly increased discharge of sebaceous matter upon the skin; stearrhea. 

SECALE:  A genus of cereal grasses including rye. 

SECANCY:  A cutting; an intersection; as, the point of secancy of one line by another. [R.] Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ). 

SECANT:  Cutting; divivding into two parts; as, a secant line. 

SECANT:  A line that cuts another; especially, a straight line cutting a curve in two or more points.  2. (Trig.)  A right line drawn from the center of a circle through one end of a circular arc, and terminated by a tangent drawn from the other end; the number expressing the ratio line of this line to the radius of the circle. See Trigonometrical function, under Function. 

SECCO:  Dry. Secco painting, or Painting in secco, painting on dry plaster, as distinguished from fresco painting, which is on wet or fresh plaster. 

SECEDE:  To withdraw from fellowship, communion, or association; to separate one's self by a solemn act; to draw off; to retire; especially, to withdraw from a political or religious body. 

SECEDER:  One of a numerous body of Presbyterians in Scotland who seceded from the communion of the Established Church, about the year 1733, and formed the Secession Church, so called. 

SECERN:  To secrete; as, mucus secerned in the nose. Arbuthnot. 

SECERNENT:  Secreting; secretory. 

SECERNENT:  A vessel in, or by means of, which the process of secretion takes place; a secreting vessel. 

SECERNMENT:  The act or process of secreting. 

SECESS:  Retirement; retreat; secession. [Obs.] R. H. More. 

SECESSION:  The withdrawal of a State from the national Union. Secession Church (in Scotland). See Seceder. 

SECESSIONISM:  The doctrine or policy of secession; the tenets of secession; the tenets of secessionists. 

SECESSIONIST:  One who holds to the belief that a State has the right to separate from the Union at its will. 

SECHE:  To seek. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SECHIUM:  The edible fruit of a West Indian plant (Sechium edule) of the Gourd family. It is soft, pear-shaped, and about four inches long, and contains a single large seed. The root of the plant resembles a yam, and is used for food. 

SECK:  Barren; unprofitable. See Rent seck, under Rent. 

SECKEL:  A small reddish brown sweet and juicy pear. It originated on a farm near Philadelphia, afterwards owned by a Mr. Seckel. 

SECLE:  A century. [Obs.] Hammond. 

SECLUSION:  The act of secluding, or the state of being secluded; separation from society or connection; a withdrawing; privacy; as, to live in seclusion. O blest seclusion from a jarring world, which he, thus occupied, enjoys! Cowper.  Syn.  -- Solitude; separation; withdrawment; retirement; privacy. See Solitude. 

SECLUSIVE:  Tending to seclude; keeping in seclusion; secluding; sequestering. 

SECOND:  An article of merchandise of a grade inferior to the best; esp., a coarse or inferior kind of flour.  5. Etym: [F. seconde. See Second, a.]  The sixtieth part of a minute of time or of a minute of space, that is, the second regular subdivision of the degree; as, sound moves about 1,140 English feet in a second; five minutes and ten seconds north of this place.  6. In the duodecimal system of mensuration, the twelfth part of an inch or prime; a line. See Inch, and Prime, n., 8.  7. (Mus.) (a) The interval between any tone and the tone which is represented on the degree of the staff next above it. (b) The second part in a concerted piece; -- often popularly applied to the alto. Second hand, the hand which marks the seconds on the dial of a watch or a clock. 

SECONDARINESS:  The state of being secondary. Full of a girl's sweet sense of secondariness to the object of her love. Mrs. Oliphant. 

SECONDARY:  Possessing some quality, or having been subject to some operation (as substitution), in the second degree; as, a secondary salt, a secondary amine, etc. Cf. primary.  4. (Min.)  Subsequent in origin; -- said of minerals produced by alteertion or deposition subsequent to the formation of the original rocks mass; also of characters of minerals (as secondary cleavage, etc.) developed by pressure or other causes.  5. (Zoöl.)  Pertaining to the second joint of the wing of a bird.  6. (Med.)  Dependent or consequent upon another disease; as, Bright's disease is often secondary to scarlet fever. (b) Occuring in the second stage of a disease; as, the secondary symptoms of syphilis. Secondary accent. See the Note under Accent, n., 1.  -- Secondary age. (Geol.) The Mesozoic age, or age before the Tertiary. See Mesozoic, and Note under Age, n., 8.  -- Secondary alcohol (Chem.), any one of a series of alcohols which contain the radical CH.OH united with two hydrocarbon radicals. On oxidation the secondary alcohols form ketones.  -- Secondary amputation (Surg.), an amputation for injury, performed after the constitutional effects of the injury have subsided.  -- Secondary axis (Opt.), any line which passes through the optical center of a lens but not through the centers of curvature, or, in the case of a mirror, which passes through the center of curvature but not through the center of the mirror.  -- Secondary battery. (Elec.) See under Battery, n., 4.  -- Secondary circle (Geom. & Astron.), a great circle passes through the poles of another great circle and is therefore perpendicular to its plane.  -- Secondary circuit, Secondary coil (Elec.), a circuit or coil in which a current is produced by the induction of a current in a neighboring circuit or coil called the primary circuit or coil.  -- Secondary color, a color formed by mixing any two primary colors in equal proportions.  -- Secondary coverts (Zoöl.), the longer coverts which overlie the basal part of the secondary quills of a bird. See Illust. under Bird.  -- Secondary crystal (Min.), a crystal derived from one of the primary forms.  -- Secondary current (Elec.), a momentary current induced in a closed circuit by a current of electricity passing through the same or a contiguous circuit at the beginning and also at the end of the passage of the primary current.  -- Secondary evidence, that which is admitted upon failure to obtain the primary or best evidence.  -- Secondary fever (Med.), a fever coming on in a disease after the subsidence of the fever with which the disease began, as the fever which attends the outbreak of the eruption in smallpox.  -- Secondary hemorrhage (Med.), hemorrhage occuring from a wounded blood vessel at some considerable time after the original bleeding has ceased.  -- Secondary planet. (Astron.) See the Note under Planet.  -- Secondary qualities, those qualities of bodies which are not inseparable from them as such, but are dependent for their development and intensity on the organism of the percipient, such as color, taste, odor, etc.  -- Secondary quills or remiges (Zoöl.), the quill feathers arising from the forearm of a bird and forming a row continuous with the primaries; -- called also secondaries. See Illust. of Bird.  -- Secondary rocks or strata (Geol.), those lying between the Primary, or Paleozoic, and Tertiary (see Primary rocks, under Primary); -- later restricted to strata of the Mesozoic age, and at but little used.  -- Secondary syphilis (Med.), the second stage of syphilis, including the period from the first development of constitutional symptoms to the time when the bones and the internal organs become involved.  -- Secondary tint, any subdued tint, as gray.  -- Secondary union (Surg.), the union of wounds after suppuration; union by the second intention.  Syn.  -- Second; second-rate; subordinate; inferior. 

SECONDARY:  A secondary quill.  SECOND-CLASS Sec"ond-class`, a.  Of the rank or degree below the best highest; inferior; second- rate; as, a second-class house; a second-class passage. 

SECONDER:  One who seconds or supports what another attempts, affirms, moves, or proposes; as, the seconder of an enterprise or of a motion. 

SECONDLY:  In the second place. 

SECONDO:  The second part in a concerted piece.  SECOND-RATE Sec"ond-rate`, a.  Of the second size, rank, quality, or value; as, a second-rate ship; second-rate cloth; a second-rate champion. Dryden.  SECOND-SIGHT Sec"ond-sight`, n.  The power of discerning what is not visible to the physical eye, or of foreseeing future events, esp. such as are of a disastrous kind; the capacity of a seer; prophetic vision. he was seized with a fit of second-sight. Addison. Nor less availed his optic sleight, And Scottish gift of second- sight. Trumbull.  SECOND-SIGHTED Sec"ond-sight`ed, a.  Having the power of second-sight. Addison. 

SECRE:  Secret; secretive; faithful to a secret. [Obs.] To be holden stable and secre. Chaucer. 

SECRE:  A secret. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SECRELY:  Secretly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SECRENESS:  Secrecy; privacy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SECRET:  The parts which modesty and propriety require to be concealed; the genital organs. In secret, in a private place; in privacy or secrecy; in a state or place not seen; privately. Bread eaten in secret is pleasant. Prov. ix. 17. 

SECRET:  To keep secret. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SECRETAGE:  A process in which mercury, or some of its salts, is employed to impart the property of felting to certain kinds of furs. Ure. 

SECRETARIAL:  Of or pertaining to a secretary; befitting a secretary. [R.] Secretarial, diplomatic, or other official training. Carlyle.  SECRETARIAT; SECRETARIATE Sec`re*ta"ri*at, Sec`re*ta"ri*ate, n. Etym: [F. secrétariat.]  The office of a secretary; the place where a secretary transacts business, keeps records, etc. 

SECRETARY:  The secretary bird. Secretary Bird. Etym: [So called in allusion to the tufts of feathers at the back of its head, which were fancifully thought to resemble pens stuck behind the ear.] (Zoöl.) A large long-legged raptorial bird (Gypogeranus serpentarius), native of South Africa, but now naturalized in the West Indies and some other tropical countries. It has a powerful hooked beak, a crest of long feathers, and a long tail. It feeds upon reptiles of various kinds, and is much prized on account of its habit of killing and devouring snakes of all kinds. Called also serpent eater.  Syn.  -- See the Note under Clerk, n., 4. 

SECRETARYSHIP:  The office, or the term of office, of a secretary. 

SECRETE:  To separate from the blood and elaborate by the process of secretion; to elaborate and emit as a secretion. See Secretion. Why one set of cells should secrete bile, another urea, and so on, we do not known. Carpenter.  Syn.  -- To conceal; hide. See Conceal. 

SECRETION:  The act of secreting; the process by which material is separated from the blood through the agency of the cells of the various glands and elaborated by the cells into new substances so as to form the various secretions, as the saliva, bile, and other digestive fluids. The process varies in the different glands, and hence are formed the various secretions.  3. (Physiol.)  Any substance or fluid secreted, or elaborated and emitted, as the gastric juice. 

SECRETIST:  A dealer in secrets. [Obs.] 

SECRETITIOUS:  Parted by animal secretion; as, secretitious humors. Floyer. 

SECRETIVE:  Tending to secrete, or to keep secret or private; as, a secretive disposition. 

SECRETIVENESS:  The faculty or propensity which impels to reserve, secrecy, or concealment. 

SECRETLY:  In a secret manner. 

SECRETNESS:  Causing secretion; -- said of nerves which go to glands and influence secretion. 

SECRETORY:  Secreting; performing, or connected with, the office secretion; secernent; as, secretory vessels, nerves.  -- n.  A secretory vessel; a secernent.  SECRET SERVICE Se"cret serv"ice.  The detective service of a government. In the United States, in time of peace the bureau of secret service is under the treasury department, and in time of war it aids the war department in securing information concerning the movements of the enemy. 

SECT:  A cutting; a scion. [Obs.] Shak. 

SECT:  Those following a particular leader or authority, or attached to a certain opinion; a company or set having a common belief or allegiance distinct from others; in religion, the believers in a particular creed, or upholders of a particular practice; especially, in modern times, a party dissenting from an established church; a denomination; in philosophy, the disciples of a particular master; a school; in society and the state, an order, rank, class, or party. He beareth the sign of poverty, And in that sect our Savior saved all mankind. Piers Plowman. As of the sect of which that he was born, He kept his lay, to which that he was sworn. Chaucer. The cursed sect of that detestable and false prophet Mohammed. Fabyan. As concerning this sect [Christians], we know that everywhere it is spoken against. Acts xxviii. 22. 

SECTANT:  One of the portions of space bounded by the three coordinate planes. Specif. (Crystallog.), one of the parts of a crystal into which it is divided by the axial planes. 

SECTARIAN:  Pertaining to a sect, or to sects; peculiar to a sect; bigotedly attached to the tenets and interests of a denomination; as, sectarian principles or prejudices. 

SECTARIAN:  One of a sect; a member or adherent of a special school, denomination, or religious or philosophical party; one of a party in religion which has separated itself from established church, or which holds tenets different from those of the prevailing denomination in a state.  Syn.  -- See Heretic. 

SECTARIANISM:  The quality or character of a sectarian; devotion to the interests of a party; excess of partisan or denominational zeal; adherence to a separate church organization. 

SECTARIANIZE:  To imbue with sectarian feelings; to subject to the control of a sect. 

SECTARISM:  Sectarianism. [Obs.] 

SECTARIST:  A sectary. [R.] T. Warton. 

SECTARY:  A sectarian; a member or adherent of a sect; a follower or disciple of some particular teacher in philosophy or religion; one who separates from an established church; a dissenter. I never knew that time in England when men of truest religion were not counted sectaries. Milton. 

SECTATOR:  A follower; a disciple; an adherent to a sect. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

SECTILE:  Capable of being cut; specifically (Min.), capable of being severed by the knife with a smooth cut; -- said of minerals. 

SECTILITY:  The state or quality of being sectile. 

SECTION:  The figure made up of all the points common to a superficies and a solid which meet, or to two superficies which meet, or to two lines which meet. In the first case the section is a superficies, in the second a line, and in the third a point.  4. (Nat. Hist.)  A division of a genus; a group of species separated by some distinction from others of the same genus; -- often indicated by the sign §.  5. (Mus.)  A part of a musical period, composed of one or more phrases. See Phrase.  6. The description or representation of anything as it would appear if cut through by any intersecting plane; depiction of what is beyond a plane passing through, or supposed to pass through, an object, as a building, a machine, a succession of strata; profile.  Note: In mechanical drawing, as in these Illustrations of a cannon, a longitudinal section (a) usually represents the object as cut through its center lengthwise and vertically; a cross or transverse section (b), as cut crosswise and vertically; and a horizontal section (c), as cut through its center horizontally. Oblique sections are made at various angles. In architecture, a vertical section is a drawing showing the interior, the thickness of the walls, ets., as if made on a vertical plane passed through a building. Angular sections (Math.), a branch of analysis which treats of the relations of sines, tangents, etc., of arcs to the sines, tangents, etc., of their multiples or of their parts. [R.] -- Conic sections. (Geom.) See under Conic.  -- Section liner (Drawing), an instrument to aid in drawing a series of equidistant parallel lines, -- used in representing sections.  -- Thin sections, a section or slice, as of mineral, animal, or vegetable substance, thin enough to be transparent, and used for study under the microscope.  Syn.  -- Part; portion; division.  -- Section, Part. The English more commonly apply the word section to a part or portion of a body of men; as, a section of the clergy, a small section of the Whigs, etc. In the United States this use is less common, but another use, unknown or but little known in England, is very frequent, as in the phrases "the eastern section of our country," etc., the same sense being also given to the adjective sectional as, sectional feelings, interests, etc. 

SECTIONALISM:  A disproportionate regard for the interests peculiar to a section of the country; local patriotism, as distinguished from national. [U. S.] 

SECTIONALITY:  The state or quality of being sectional; sectionalism. 

SECTIONALIZE:  To divide according to gepgraphical sections or local interests. [U. S.] The principal results of the struggle were to sectionalize parties. Nicilay & Hay (Life of Lincoln). 

SECTIONALLY:  In a sectional manner. 

SECTIONIZE:  To form into sections. [R.] 

SECTISM:  Devotion to a sect. [R.] 

SECTIST:  One devoted to a sect; a soetary. [R.] 

SECTIUNCLE:  A little or petty sect. [R.] "Some new sect or sectiuncle." J. Martineau. 

SECTOR:  A part of a circle comprehended between two radii and the included arc.  2. A mathematical instrument, consisting of two rulers connected at one end by a joint, each arm marked with several scales, as of equal parts, chords, sines, tangents, etc., one scale of each kind on each arm, and all on lines radiating from the common center of motion. The sector is used for plotting, etc., to any scale.  3. An astronomical instrument, the limb of which embraces a small portion only of a circle, used for measuring differences of declination too great for the compass of a micrometer. When it is used for measuring zenith distances of stars, it is called a zenith sector. Dip sector, an instrument used for measuring the dip of the horizon.  -- Sector of a sphere, or Spherical sector, the solid generated by the revolution of the sector of a circle about one of its radii, or, more rarely, about any straight line drawn in the plane of the sector through its vertex. 

SECTORAL:  Of or pertaining to a sector; as, a sectoral circle. 

SECTORIAL:  Adapted for cutting.  -- n.  A sectorial, or carnassial, tooth. 

SECULAR:  Not regular; not bound by monastic vows or rules; not confined to a monastery, or subject to the rules of a religious community; as, a secular priest. He tried to enforce a stricter discipline and greater regard for morals, both in the religious orders and the secular clergy. Prescett.  5. Belonging to the laity; lay; not clerical. I speak of folk in secular estate. Chaucer. Secular equation (Astron.), the algebraic or numerical expression of the magnitude of the inequalities in a planet's motion that remain after the inequalities of a short period have been allowed for.  -- Secular games (Rom. Antiq.), games celebrated, at long but irregular intervals, for three days and nights, with sacrifices, theatrical shows, combats, sports, and the like.  -- Secular music, any music or songs not adapted to sacred uses.  -- Secular hymn or poem, a hymn or poem composed for the secular games, or sung or rehearsed at those games. 

SECULAR:  A secular ecclesiastic, or one not bound by monastic rules. Burke.  2. (Eccl.)  A church official whose functions are confined to the vocal department of the choir. Busby.  3. A layman, as distinguished from a clergyman. 

SECULARIST:  One who theoretically rejects every form of religious faith, and every kind of religious worship, and accepts only the facts and influences which are derived from the present life; also, one who believes that education and other matters of civil policy should be managed without the introduction of a religious element. 

SECULARITY:  Supreme attention to the things of the present life; worldliness. A secularity of character which makes Christianity and its principal doctrines distasteful or unintelligible. I. Taylor. 

SECULARIZATION:  The act of rendering secular, or the state of being rendered secular; conversion from regular or monastic to secular; conversion from religious to lay or secular possession and uses; as, the secularization of church property. 

SECULARLY:  In a secular or worldly manner. 

SECULARNESS:  The quality or state of being secular; worldliness; worldly- minded-ness. 

SECUND:  Arranged on one side only, as flowers or leaves on a stalk. Gray. 

SECUNDATE:  To make prosperous. [R.] 

SECUNDATION:  Prosperity. [R.] 

SECUNDINE:  The second coat, or integument, of an ovule, lying within the primine.  Note: In the ripened seed the primine and secundine are usually united to form the testa, or outer seed coat. When they remain distinct the secundine becomes the mesosperm, as in the castor bean.  2. Etym: [Cf. F. secondines.]  The afterbirth, or placenta and membranes; -- generally used in the plural.  SECUNDO-GENITURE Se*cun`do-gen"i*ture, n. Etym: [L. secundus second + genitura a begetting, generation.]  A right of inheritance belonging to a second son; a property or possession so inherited. The kingdom of Naples . . . was constituted a secundo-geniture of Spain. Bancroft. 

SECURABLE:  That may be secured. 

SECURELY:  In a secure manner; without fear or apprehension; without danger; safely. His daring foe . . . securely him defied. Milton. 

SECUREMENT:  The act of securing; protection. [R.] Society condemns the securement in all cases of perpetual protection by means of perpetual imprisonment. C. A. Ives. 

SECURENESS:  The condition or quality of being secure; exemption from fear; want of vigilance; security. 

SECURER:  One who, or that which, secures. 

SECURIFERA:  The Serrifera. 

SECURIFORM:  Having the form of an ax hatchet. 

SECURIPALP:  One of a family of beetles having the maxillary palpi terminating in a hatchet-shaped joint. 

SEDAN:  A portable chair or covered vehicle for carrying a single person, -- usually borne on poles by two men. Called also sedan chair. 

SEDATE:  Undisturbed by passion or caprice; calm; tranquil; serene; not passionate or giddy; composed; staid; as, a sedate soul, mind, or temper. Disputation carries away the mind from that calm and sedate temper which is so necessary to contemplate truth. I. Watts. Whatsoever we feel and know Too sedate for outward show. Wordsworth.  Syn.  -- Settled; composed; calm; quiet; tranquil; still; serene; unruffled; undisturbed; conteplative; sober; serious.  -- Se*date"ly, adv.  -- Se*date"ness, n. 

SEDATION:  The act of calming, or the state of being calm. [R.] Coles. 

SEDATIVE:  Tending to calm, moderate, or tranquilize; specifically (Med.), allaying irritability and irritation; assuaging pain. 

SEDATIVE:  A remedy which allays irritability and irritation, and irritative activity or pain. 

SEDENT:  Sitting; inactive; quiet. [R.] 

SEDENTARILY:  In a sedentary manner. 

SEDENTARINESS:  Quality of being sedentary. 

SEDENTARY:  Remaining in one place, especially when firmly attached to some object; as, the oyster is a sedentary mollusk; the barnacles are sedentary crustaceans. Sedentary spider (Zoöl.), one of a tribe of spiders which rest motionless until their prey is caught in their web. 

SEDERUNT:  A sitting, as of a court or other body. 'T is pity we have not Burn's own account of that long sederunt. Prof. Wilson. Acts of sederunt (Scots Law), ordinances of the Court of Session for the ordering of processes and expediting of justice. Bell. 

SEDGE:  Any plant of the genus Carex, perennial, endogenous herbs, often growing in dense tufts in marshy places. They have triangular jointless stems, a spiked inflorescence, and long grasslike leaves which are usually rough on the margins and midrib. There are several hundred species.  Note: The name is sometimes given to any other plant of the order Cyperaceæ, which includes Carex, Cyperus, Scirpus, and many other genera of rushlike plants.  2. (Zoöl.)  A flock of herons. Sedge ken (Zoöl.), the clapper rail. See under 5th Rail.  -- Sedge warbler (Zoöl.), a small European singing bird (Acrocephalus phragmitis). It often builds its nest among reeds; -- called also sedge bird, sedge wren, night warbler, and Scotch nightingale. 

SEDGED:  Made or composed of sedge. With your sedged crowns and ever-harmless looks. Shak. 

SEDGY:  Overgrown with sedge. On the gentle Severn''s sedgy bank. Shak. 

SEDILIA:  Seats in the chancel of a church near the altar for the officiating clergy during intervals of service. Hook. 

SEDIMENT:  The material of which sedimentary rocks are formed. 

SEDIMENTAL:  Sedimentary. 

SEDIMENTARY:  Of or pertaining to sediment; formed by sediment; containing matter that has subsided. Sedimentary rocks. (Geol.) See Aqueous rocks, under Aqueous. 

SEDIMENTATION:  The act of depositing a sediment; specifically (Geol.), the deposition of the material of which sedimentary rocks are formed. 

SEDITIONARY:  An inciter or promoter of sedition. Bp. Hall. 

SEDLITZ:  Same as Seidlitz. 

SEDUCER:  One who, or that which, seduces; specifically, one who prevails over the chastity of a woman by enticements and persuasions. He whose firm faith no reason could remove, Will melt before that soft seducer, love. Dryden. 

SEDUCIBLE:  Capable of being seduced; corruptible. 

SEDUCING:  Seductive. "Thy sweet seducing charms." Cowper.  -- Se*du"cing*ly, adv. 

SEDUCTIVE:  Tending to lead astray; apt to mislead by flattering appearances; tempting; alluring; as, a seductive offer. This may enable us to understand how seductive is the influence of example. Sir W. Hamilton. 

SEDUCTIVELY:  In a seductive manner. 

SEDUCTRESS:  A woman who seduces. 

SEDULITY:  The quality or state of being sedulous; diligent and assiduous application; constant attention; unremitting industry; sedulousness. The industrious bee, by his sedulity in summer, lives in honey all the winter. Feltham. 

SEDULOUS:  Diligent in application or pursuit; constant, steady, and persevering in business, or in endeavors to effect an object; steadily industrious; assiduous; as, the sedulous bee. What signifies the sound of words in prayer, without the affection of the heart, and a sedulous application of the proper means that may naturally lead us to such an end L'Estrange.  Syn.  -- Assiduous; diligent; industrious; laborious; unremitting; untiring; unwearied; persevering.  -- Sed"u*lous*ly, adv.  -- Sed"u*lous*ness, n. 

SEDUM:  A genus of plants, mostly perennial, having succulent leaves and cymose flowers; orpine; stonecrop. Gray. 

SEECATCH:  A full-grown male fur seal. [Alaska] 

SEED:  The generative fluid of the male; semen; sperm; -- not used in the plural.  3. That from which anything springs; first principle; original; source; as, the seeds of virtue or vice.  4. The principle of production. Praise of great acts he scatters as a seed, Which may the like in coming ages breed. Waller.  5. Progeny; offspring; children; descendants; as, the seed of Abraham; the seed of David.  Note: In this sense the word is applied to one person, or to any number collectively, and admits of the plural form, though rarely used in the plural.  6. Race; generation; birth. Of mortal seed they were not held. Waller. Seed bag (Artesian well), a packing to prevent percolation of water down the bore hole. It consists of a bag encircling the tubing and filled with flax seed, which swells when wet and fills the space between the tubing and the sides of the hole.  -- Seed bud (Bot.), the germ or rudiment of the plant in the embryo state; the ovule.  -- Seed coat (Bot.), the covering of a seed.  -- Seed corn, or Seed grain (Bot.), corn or grain for seed.  -- Seed down (Bot.), the soft hairs on certain seeds, as cotton seed.  -- Seed drill. See 6th Drill, 2 (a).  -- Seed eater (Zoöl.), any finch of the genera Sporophila, and Crithagra. They feed mainly on seeds.  -- Seed gall (Zoöl.), any gall which resembles a seed, formed, on the leaves of various plants, usually by some species of Phylloxera.  -- Seed leaf (Bot.), a cotyledon.  -- Seed lobe (Bot.), a cotyledon; a seed leaf.  -- Seed oil, oil expressed from the seeds of plants.  -- Seed oyster, a young oyster, especially when of a size suitable for transplantation to a new locality.  -- Seed pearl, a small pearl of little value.  -- Seed plat, or Seed plot, the ground on which seeds are sown, to produce plants for transplanting; a nursery.  -- Seed stalk (Bot.), the stalk of an ovule or seed; a funicle.  -- Seed tick (Zoöl.), one of several species of ticks resembling seeds in form and color.  -- Seed vessel (Bot.), that part of a plant which contains the seeds; a pericarp.  -- Seed weevil (Zoöl.), any one of numerous small weevels, especially those of the genus Apion, which live in the seeds of various plants.  -- Seed wool, cotton wool not yet cleansed of its seeds. [Southern U.S.] 

SEEDCAKE:  A sweet cake or cooky containing aromatic seeds, as caraway. Tusser. 

SEEDCOD:  A seedlip. [Prov. Eng.] 

SEEDER:  One who, or that which, sows or plants seed. 

SEEDINESS:  The quality or state of being seedy, shabby, or worn out; a state of wretchedness or exhaustion. [Colloq.] G. Eliot. What is called seedness, after a debauch, is a plain proof that nature has been outraged. J. S. Blackie.  SEED-LAC Seed"-lac`, n.  A species of lac. See the Note under Lac. 

SEEDLESS:  Without seed or seeds. 

SEEDLING:  A plant reared from the seed, as distinguished from one propagated by layers, buds, or the like.  SEEDLIP; SEEDLOP Seed"lip`, Seed"lop`, n. Etym: [AS. s; s seed + leáp basket.]  A vessel in which a sower carries the seed to be scattered. [Prov. Eng.] 

SEEDMAN:  Seedsman. 

SEEDNESS:  Seedtime. [Obs.] Shak. 

SEEDTIME:  The season proper for sowing. While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease. Gen. viii. 22. 

SEEING:  (but originally a present participle). In view of the fact (that); considering; taking into account (that); insmuch as; since; because; -- followed by a dependent clause; as, he did well, seeing that he was so young. Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me Gen. xxvi. 27. 

SEEK:  Sick. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SEEK:  To make search or inquiry: to endeavor to make discovery. Seek ye out of the book of the Lord, and read. Isa. xxxiv. 16. To seek, needing to seek or search; hence, unpreparated. "Unpracticed, unpreparated, and still to seek." Milton. [Obs] -- To seek after, to make pursuit of; to attempt to find or take.  -- To seek for, to endeavor to find.  -- To seek to, to apply to; to resort to; to court. [Obs.] "All the earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom." 1. Kings x. 24.  -- To seek upon, to make strict inquiry after; to follow up; to persecute. [Obs.] To seek Upon a man and do his soul unrest. Chaucer. 

SEEKER:  One of a small heterogeneous sect of the 17th century, in Great Britain, who professed to be seeking the true church, ministry, and sacraments. A skeptic [is] ever seeking and never finds, like our new upstart sect of Seekers. Bullokar.  SEEK-NO-FURTHER Seek"-no-fur`ther, n.  A kind of choice winter apple, having a subacid taste; -- formerly called go-no-further.  SEEK-SORROW Seek"-sor`row, n.  One who contrives to give himself vexation. [Archaic.] Sir P. Sidney. 

SEEL:  To close the eyes of (a hawk or other bird) by drawing through the lids threads which were fastened over the head. Bacon. Fools climbs to fall: fond hopes, like seeled doves for want of better light, mount till they end their flight with falling. J. Reading.  2. Hence, to shut or close, as the eyes; to blind. Come, seeling night, Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day. Shak. Gold death, with a violent fate, his sable eyes did seel. Chapman. 

SEEL:  To incline to one side; to lean; to roll, as a ship at sea. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.  SEEL; SEELING Seel, Seel"ing, n.  The rolling or agitation of a ship in a sterm. [Obs.] Sandys. 

SEELILY:  In a silly manner. [Obs.] 

SEELY:  See Silly. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SEEM:  To appear, or to appear to be; to have a show or semblance; to present an appearance; to look; to strike one's apprehension or fancy as being; to be taken as. "It now seemed probable." Macaulay. Thou picture of what thou seem'st. Shak. All seemed well pleased; all seemed, but were not all. Milton. There is a way which seemeth right unto a man; but the end thereof are the ways of death. Prov. xiv. 12. It seems, it appears; it is understood as true; it is said. A prince of Italy, it seems, entertained his misstress on a great lake. Addison.  Syn.  -- To appear; look.  -- Seem, Appear. To appear has reference to a thing's being presented to our view; as, the sun appears; to seem is connected with the idea of semblance, and usually implies an inference of our mind as to the probability of a thing's being so; as, a storm seems to be coming. "The story appears to be true," means that the facts, as presented, go to show its truth; "the story seems to be true," means that it has the semblance of being so, and we infer that it is true. "His first and principal care being to appear unto his people such as he would have them be, and to be such as he appeared." Sir P. Sidney. Ham. Ay, madam, it is common. Queen. If it be, Why seems it so particular with thee Ham. Seems, madam! Nay, it is; I know not "seems." Shak. 

SEEM:  To befit; to beseem. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SEEMER:  One who seems; one who carries or assumes an appearance or semblance. Hence shall we see, If power change purpose, what our seemers be. Shak. 

SEEMING:  Having a semblance, whether with or without reality; apparent; specious; befitting; as, seeming friendship; seeming truth. My lord, you have lost a friend indeed; And I dare swear you borrow not that face Of seeming sorrow, it is sure your own. Shak. 

SEEMINGLY:  In appearance; in show; in semblance; apparently; ostensibly. This the father seemingly complied with. Addison. 

SEEMINGNESS:  Semblance; fair appearance; plausibility. Sir K. Digby. 

SEEMLESS:  Unseemly. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SEEMLILY:  In a seemly manner. [Obs.] 

SEEMLINESS:  The quality or state of being seemly: comeliness; propriety. 

SEEMLY:  Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character; suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous. He had a seemly nose. Chaucer. I am a woman, lacking wit To make a seemly answer to such persons. Shak. Suspense of judgment and exercise of charity were safer and seemlier for Christian men than the hot pursuit of these controversies. Hooker.  Syn.  -- Becoming; fit; suitable; proper; appropriate; congruous; meet; decent; decorous. 

SEEMLY:  In a decent or suitable manner; becomingly. Suddenly a men before him stood, Not rustic as before, but seemlier clad, As one in city or court or place bred. Milton. 

SEEMLYHED:  Comely or decent appearance. [Obs.] Rom. of R. Spenser. 

SEEN:  of See. 

SEEN:  Versed; skilled; accomplished. [Obs.] Well seen in every science that mote be. Spenser. Noble Boyle, not less in nature seen, Than his great brother read in states and men. Dryden.  SEEP; SIPE Seep, or; Sipe, v. i. Etym: [AS. sipan to distill.]  To run or soak through fine pores and interstices; to ooze. [Scot. & U. S.] Water seeps up through the sidewalks. G. W. Cable.  SEEPAGE; SIPAGE Seep"age, or; Sip"age, n.  Water that seeped or oozed through a porous soil. [Scot. & U. S.]  SEEPY; SIPY Seep"y, or; Sip"y, a.  Oozy; -- applied to land under cultivation that is not well drained. 

SEER:  Sore; painful. [Prov. Eng.] Ray. 

SEER:  One who sees. Addison. 

SEER:  A person who foresees events; a prophet. Milton. 

SEERESS:  A female seer; a prophetess. 

SEERFISH:  A scombroid food fish of Maderia (Cybium Commersonii). 

SEERHAND:  A kind of muslin of a texture between nainsook and mull. 

SEERSHIP:  The office or quality of a seer. 

SEERSUCKER:  A light fabric, originally made in the East Indies, of silk and linen, usually having alternating stripes, and a slightly craped or puckered surface; also, a cotton fabric of similar appearance. 

SEERWOOD:  Dry wood. [Written also searwood.] [Obs.] Dryden. 

SEESAW:  Same as Crossruff. 

SEESAW:  To move with a reciprocating motion; to move backward and forward, or upward and downward. 

SEESAW:  To cause to move backward and forward in seesaw fashion. He seesaws himself to and fro. Ld. Lytton. 

SEESAW:  Moving up and down, or to and fro; having a reciprocating motion. 

SEET:  Sate; sat. Chaucer. 

SEETH:  imp. of Seethe. Chaucer. 

SEETHE:  To decoct or prepare for food in hot liquid; to boil; as, to seethe flesh. [Written also seeth.] Set on the great pot, and seethe pottage for the sons of the prophets. 2 Kings iv. 38. 

SEETHE:  To be a state of ebullition or violent commotion; to be hot; to boil. 1 Sam. ii. 13. A long Pointe, round which the Mississippi used to whirl, and seethe, and foam. G. W. Cable. 

SEETHER:  A pot for boiling things; a boiler. Like burnished gold the little seether shone. Dryden. 

SEG:  A castrated bull. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 

SEGAR:  See Cigar. 

SEGGAR:  A case or holder made of fire clay, in which fine pottery is inclosed while baking in the kin. [Written also saggar, sagger, and segger.] Ure. 

SEGGE:  The hedge sparrow. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SEGMENT:  A part cut off from a figure by a line or plane; especially, that part of a circle contained between a chord and an arc of that circle, or so much of the circle as is cut off by the chord; as, the segment acb in the Illustration.  3. (Mach.) (a) A piece in the form of the sector of a circle, or part of a ring; as, the segment of a sectional fly wheel or flywheel rim. (b) A segment gear.  4. (Biol.) (a) One of the cells or division formed by segmentation, as in egg cleavage or in fissiparous cell formation. (b) One of the divisions, rings, or joints into which many animal bodies are divided; a somite; a metamere; a somatome. Segment gear, a piece for receiving or communicating reciprocating motion from or to a cogwheel, consisting of a sector of a circular gear, or ring, having cogs on the periphery, or face.  -- Segment of a line, the part of a line contained between two points on it.  -- Segment of a sphere, the part of a sphere cut off by a plane, or included between two parallel planes.  -- Ventral segment. (Acoustics) See Loor, n., 5. 

SEGMENT:  To divide or separate into parts in growth; to undergo segmentation, or cleavage, as in the segmentation of the ovum. 

SEGMENTATION:  The act or process of dividing into segments; specifically (Biol.), a self-division into segments as a result of growth; cell cleavage; cell multiplication; endogenous cell formation. Segmentation cavity (Biol.), the cavity formed by the arrangement of the cells in segmentation or cleavage of the ovum; the cavity of the blastosphere. In the gastrula stage, the segmentation cavity in which the mesoblast is formed lies between the entoblast and ectoblast. See Illust. of Invagination.  -- Segmentation nucleus (Biol.), the body formed by fusion of the male and female pronucleus in an impregnated ovum. See the Note under Pronucleus.  -- Segmentation of the ovum, or Egg cleavage (Biol.), the process by which the embryos of all the higher plants and animals are derived from the germ cell. In the simplest case, that of small ova destitute of food yolk, the ovum or egg divides into two similar halves or segments (blastomeres), each of these again divides into two, and so on, thus giving rise to a mass of cells (mulberry mass, or morula), all equal and similar, from the growth and development of which the future animal is to be formed. This constitutes regular segmentation. Quite frequently, however, the equality and regularity of cleavage is interfered with by the presence of food yolk, from which results unequal segmentation. See Holoblastic, Meroblastic, Alecithal, Centrolecithal, Ectolecithal, and Ovum.  -- Segmentation sphere (Biol.), the blastosphere, or morula. See Morula. 

SEGMENTED:  Divided into segments or joints; articulated.  SEGNITUDE; SEGNITY Seg"ni*tude, Seg"ni*ty, n. Etym: [L. segnitas, fr. segnis slow, sluggish.]  Sluggishness; dullness; inactivity. [Obs.] 

SEGNO:  A sign. See Al segno, and Dal segno. 

SEGO:  A liliaceous plant (Calochortus Nuttallii) of Western North America, and its edible bulb; -- so called by the Ute Indians and the Mormons. 

SEGREGATE:  Separated from others of the same kind. 

SEGREGATE:  To separate from others; to set apart. They are still segregated, Christians from Christians, under odious designations. I. Taylor. 

SEGREGATE:  To separate from a mass, and collect together about centers or along lines of fracture, as in the process of crystallization or solidification. 

SEGREGATION:  Separation from a mass, and gathering about centers or into cavities at hand through cohesive attraction or the crystallizing process. 

SEICHES:  Local oscillations in level observed in the case of some lakes, as Lake Geneva. 

SEID:  A descendant of Mohammed through his daughter Fatima and nephew Ali. 

SEIDLITZ:  Of or pertaining to Seidlitz, a village in Bohemia. [Written also Sedlitz.] Seidlitz powders, effervescing salts, consisting of two separate powders, one of which contains forty grains of sodium bicarbonate mixed with two drachms of RochellRochelle powders.  -- Seidlitz water, a natural water from Seidlitz, containing magnesium, sodium, calcium, and potassium sulphates, with calcium carbonate and a little magnesium chloride. It is used as an aperient. 

SEIGH:  obs. imp. sing. of See. Saw. Chaucer. 

SEIGNIORAL:  Of or pertaining to a seignior; seigneurial. "Kingly or seignioral patronage." Burke. 

SEIGNIORALTY:  The territory or authority of a seignior, or lord. Milman. 

SEIGNIORIAL:  Same as Seigneurial. 

SEIGNIORIZE:  To lord it over. [Obs.] As proud as he that seigniorizeth hell. Fairfax. 

SEINE:  A large net, one edge of which is provided with sinkers, and the other with floats. It hangs vertically in the water, and when its ends are brought together or drawn ashore incloses the fish. Seine boat, a boat specially constructed to carry and pay out a seine. 

SEINER:  One who fishes with a seine. 

SEINING:  Fishing with a seine. 

SEINT:  A girdle. [Obs.] "Girt with a seint of silk." Chaucer. 

SEINT:  A saint. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SEINTUARY:  Sanctuary. [Obs.] 

SEIRFISH:  Same as Seerfish. 

SEIROSPORE:  One of several spores arranged in a chain as in certain algæ of the genus Callithamnion. 

SEISE:  See Seize. Spenser.  Note: This is the common spelling in the law phrase to be seised of (an estate). 

SEISIN:  See Seizin. Spenser.  SEISMIC; SEISMAL Seis"mic, Seis"mal, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to an earthquake; caused by an earthquake. Seismic vertical, the point upon the earth's surface vertically over the center of effort or focal point whence the earthquake's impulse proceeds, or the vertical line connecting these two points. 

SEISMOGRAM:  The trace or record of an earth tremor, made by means of a seismograph. 

SEISMOGRAPH:  An apparatus for registering the shocks and undulatory motions of earthquakes. 

SEISMOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to a seismograph; indicated by a seismograph. 

SEISMOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to seismology.  -- Seis`mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SEISMOLOGY:  The science of earthquakes. 

SEISMOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the direction, duration, and force of earthquakes and like concussions. 

SEISMOMETRIC:  Of or pertaining to seismometry, or seismometer; as, seismometric instruments; seismometric measurements. 

SEISMOMETRY:  The mensuration of such phenomena of earthquakes as can be expressed in numbers, or by their relation to the coördinates of space. 

SEISMOSCOPE:  A seismometer. 

SEITY:  Something peculiar to one's self. [R.] Tatler. 

SEIZABLE:  That may be seized. 

SEIZE:  To take possession of by virtue of a warrant or other legal authority; as, the sheriff seized the debtor's goods.  5. To fasten; to fix. [Obs.] As when a bear hath seized her cruel claws Upon the carcass of some beast too weak. Spenser.  6. To grap with the mind; to comprehend fully and distinctly; as, to seize an idea.  7. (Naut.)  To bind or fasten together with a lashing of small stuff, as yarn or marline; as, to seize ropes.  Note: This word, by writers on law, is commonly written seise, in the phrase to be seised of (an estate), as also, in composition, disseise, disseisin. To be seized of, to have possession, or right of possession; as, A B was seized and possessed of the manor of Dale. "Whom age might see seized of what youth made prize." Chapman.  -- To seize on or upon, to fall on and grasp; to take hold on; to take possession of suddenly and forcibly.  Syn.  -- To catch; grasp; clutch; snatch; apprehend; arrest; take; capture. 

SEIZER:  One who, or that which, seizes. 

SEIZIN:  Possession; possession of an estate of froehold. It may be either in deed or in law; the former when there is actual possession, the latter when there is a right to such possession by construction of law. In some of the United States seizin means merely ownership. Burrill.  2. The act of taking possession. [Obs.]  3. The thing possessed; property. Sir M. Halle.  Note: Commonly spelt by writers on law seisin. Livery of seizin. (Eng. Law) See Note under Livery, 1. 

SEIZOR:  One who seizes, or takes possession. 

SEIZURE:  Sitting, as a lion or other beast. Sejant rampant, sitting with the forefeet lifted up. Wright. 

SEJEIN:  To separate. [Obs.] 

SEJUNCTION:  The act of disjoining, or the state of being disjoined. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

SEJUNGIBLE:  Capable of being disjoined. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson. 

SEKE:  Sick. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SEKE:  To seek. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SEKES:  A place in a pagan temple in which the images of the deities were inclosed. 

SELACHIAN:  One of the Selachii. See Illustration in Appendix. 

SELACHII:  An order of elasmobranchs including the sharks and rays; the Plagiostomi. Called also Selacha, Selache, and Selachoidei. 

SELACHOIDEI:  Same as Selachii. 

SELACHOSTOMI:  A division of ganoid fishes which includes the paddlefish, in which the mouth is armed with small teeth. 

SELAGINELLA:  A genus of cryptogamous plants resembling Lycopodia, but producing two kinds of spores; also, any plant of this genus. Many species are cultivated in conservatories. 

SELAH:  A word of doubtful meaning, occuring frequently in the Psalms; by some, supposed to signify silence or a pause in the musical performance of the song. Beyond the fact that Selach is a musical term, we know absolutely nothing about it. Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.) 

SELCOUTH:  Rarely known; unusual; strange. [Obs.] [She] wondered much at his so selcouth case. Spenser. 

SELD:  Rare; uncommon; unusual. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

SELD:  Rarely; seldom. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SELDEN:  Seldom. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SELDOM:  Rarely; not often; not frequently. Wisdom and youth are seldom joined in one. Hooker. 

SELDOM:  Rare; infrequent. [Archaic.] "A suppressed and seldom anger." Jer. Taylor. 

SELDOMNESS:  Rareness. Hooker. 

SELDSEEN:  Seldom seen. [Obs.] Drayton. 

SELDSHEWN:  Rarely shown or exhibited. [Obs.] Shak. 

SELECT:  Taken from a number by preferance; picked out as more valuable or exellent than others; of special value or exellence; nicely chosen; selected; choice. A few select spirits had separated from the crowd, and formed a fit audience round a far greater teacher. Macaulay. 

SELECT:  To choose and take from a number; to take by preference from among others; to pick out; to cull; as, to select the best authors for perusal. "One peculiar nation to select." Milton. The pious chief . . . A hundred youths from all his train selects. Dryden. 

SELECTEDLY:  With care and selection. [R.] 

SELECTION:  The act of selecting, or the state of being selected; choice, by preference.  2. That which is selected; a collection of things chosen; as, a choice selection of books. Natural selection. (Biol.) See under Natural. 

SELECTIVE:  Selecting; tending to select. This selective providence of the Almighty. Bp. Hall. 

SELECTMAN:  One of a board of town officers chosen annually in the New England States to transact the general public business of the town, and have a kind of executive authority. The number is usually from three to seven in each town. The system of delegated town action was then, perhaps, the same which was defined in an "order made in 1635 by the inhabitants of Charlestown at a full meeting for the government of the town, by selectmen;" the name presently extended throughout New England to municipal governors. Palfrey. 

SELECTNESS:  The quality or state of being select. 

SELECTOR:  One who selects. 

SELENATE:  A salt of selenic acid; -- formerly called also seleniate. 

SELENHYDRIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen selenide, H2Se, regarded as an acid analogous to sulphydric acid. 

SELENIC:  Of or pertaining to selenium; derived from, or containing, selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with selenious compounds. 

SELENIDE:  A binary compound of selenium, or a compound regarded as binary; as, ethyl selenide. 

SELENIFEROUS:  Containing, or impregnated with, selenium; as, seleniferous pyrites.  SELENIO- Se*le"ni*o- (. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of selenium or its compounds; as, selenio-phosphate, a phosphate having selenium in place of all, or a part, of the oxygen. 

SELENIOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with selenic compounds. 

SELENITE:  A salt of selenious acid. 

SELENITE:  A variety of gypsum, occuring in transparent crystals or crystalline masses.  SELENITIC; SELENITICAL Sel`e*nit"ic, Sel`e*nit"ic*al, a. (Min.)  Of or pertaining to selenite; resembling or containing selenite. 

SELENIUM:  A nonmetallic element of the sulphur group, and analogous to sulphur in its compounds. It is found in small quantities with sulphur and some sulphur ores, and obtained in the free state as a dark reddish powder or crystalline mass, or as a dark metallic- looking substance. It exhibits under the action of light a remarkable variation in electric conductivity, and is used in certain electric apparatus. Symbol Se. Atomic weight 78.9. 

SELENIURET:  A selenide. [Obs.] 

SELENIURETED:  Combined with selenium as in a selenide; as, seleniureted hydrogen. [Written also seleniuretted.] [Obsoles.] 

SELENOCENTRIC:  As seen or estimated from the center of the moon; with the moon central. 

SELENOGRAPH:  , n. A picture or delineation of the moon's surface, or of any part of it. 

SELENOGRAPHER:  One skilled in selenography. Wright.  SELENOGRAPHIC; SELENOGRAPHICAL Sel`e*no*graph"ic, Sel`e*no*graph"i*cal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sélénographique.]  Of or pertaining to selenography. 

SELENOGRAPHIST:  A selenographer. 

SELENOGRAPHY:  The science that treats of the physical features of the moon; - - corresponding to physical geography in respect to the earth. "Accurate selenography, or description of the moon." Sir T. Browne. 

SELENOLOGY:  That branch of astronomy which treats of the moon.  -- Sel`e*no*log"i*cal, a. 

SELENONIUM:  A hypothetical radical of selenium, analogous to sulphonium. [R.] 

SELF:  Same; particular; very; identical. [Obs., except in the compound selfsame.] "On these self hills." Sir. W. Raleigh. To shoot another arrow that self way Which you did shoot the first. Shak. At that self moment enters Palamon. Dryden. 

SELF:  Humbled by consciousness of inferiority, unworthiness, guilt, or shame.  SELF-ABASEMENT Self`-a*base"ment, n.  1. Degradation of one's self by one's own act.  2. Humiliation or abasement proceeding from consciousness of inferiority, guilt, or shame.  SELF-ABASING Self`-a*bas"ing, a.  Lowering or humbling one's self.  SELF-ABHORRENCE Self`-ab*hor"rence, n.  Abhorrence of one's self.  SELF-ABNEGATION Self`-ab`ne*ga"tion, n.  Self-denial; self-renunciation; self-sacrifice.  SELF-ABUSE Self`-abuse", n.  1. The abuse of one's own self, powers, or faculties.  2. Self-deception; delusion. [Obs.] Shak.  3. Masturbation; onanism; self-pollution.  SELF-ACCUSED Self"-ac*cused", a.  Accused by one's self or by one's conscience. "Die self- accused." Cowper.  SELF-ACTING Self`-act"ing, a.  Acting of or by one's self or by itself; -- said especially of a machine or mechanism which is made to perform of or for itself what is usually done by human agency; automatic; as, a self-acting feed apparatus; a self-acting mule; a self-acting press.  SELF-ACTION Self`-ac"tion, n.  Action by, or originating in, one's self or itself.  SELF-ACTIVE Self`-ac"tive, a.  Acting of one's self or of itself; acting without depending on other agents.  SELF-ACTIVITY Self`-ac*tiv"i*ty, n.  The quality or state of being self-active; self-action.  SELF-ADJUSTING Self`-ad*just"ing, a. (Mach.)  Capable of assuming a desired position or condition with relation to other parts, under varying circumstances, without requiring to be adjusted by hand; -- said of a piece in machinery. Self-adjusting bearing (Shafting), a bearing which is supported in such a manner that it may tip to accomodate flexure or displacement of the shaft.  SELF-ADMIRATION Self`-ad`mi*ra"tion, n.  Admiration of one's self.  SELF-AFFAIRS Self`-af*fairs", n. pl.  One's own affairs; one's private business. [Obs.] Shak.  SELF-AFFRIGHTED Self`-af*fright"ed, a.  Frightened at or by one's self. Shak.  SELF-AGGRANDIZEMENT Self`-ag*gran"dize*ment, n.  The aggrandizement of one's self.  SELF-ANNIHILATED Self`-an*ni"hi*la`ted, a.  Annihilated by one's self.  SELF-ANNIHILATION Self`-an*ni`hi*la"tion, n.  Annihilation by one's own acts; annihilation of one's desires. Addison.  SELF-APPLAUSE Self`-ap*plause", n.  Applause of one's self.  SELF-APPLYING Self`-ap*ply"ing, a.  Applying to or by one's self.  SELF-APPROVING Self`-ap*prov"ing, a.  Approving one's own action or character by one's own judgment. One self-approving hour whole years outweighs Of stupid starers and of loud huzzas. Pope.  SELF-ASSERTING Self`-as*sert"ing, a.  asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; hence, putting one's self forward in a confident or assuming manner.  SELF-ASSERTION Self`-as*ser"tion, n.  The act of asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; the quality of being self-asserting.  SELF-ASSERTIVE Self`-as*sert"ive, a.  Disposed to self-assertion; self-asserting.  SELF-ASSUMED Self`-as*sumed`, a.  Assumed by one's own act, or without authority.  SELF-ASSURED Self`-as*sured`, a.  Assured by or of one's self; self-reliant; complacent.  SELF-BANISHED Self`-ban"ished, a.  Exiled voluntarily.  SELF-BEGOTTEN Self"-be*got"ten, a.  Begotten by one's self, or one's own powers.  SELF-BINDER Self`-bind"er, n.  A reaping machine containing mechanism for binding the grain into sheaves.  SELF-BORN Self"-born`, a.  Born or produced by one's self.  SELF-CENTERED; SELF-CENTRED Self`-cen"tered, Self`-cen"tred, a.  Centered in itself, or in one's self. There hangs the ball of earth and water mixt, Self-centered and unmoved. Dryden.  SELF-CENTERING; SELF-CENTRING Self`-cen"ter*ing, Self`-cen"tring a.  Centering in one's self.  SELF-CENTRATION Self`-cen*tra"tion, n.  The quality or state of being self-centered.  SELF-CHARITY Self`-char"i*ty, n.  Self-love. [Obs.] Shak.  SELF-COLOR Self"-col`or, n.  A color not mixed or variegated.  SELF-COLORED Self`-col"ored, a.  Being of a single color; -- applied to flowers, animals, and textile fabrics.  SELF-COMMAND Self`-com*mand", n.  Control over one's own feelings, temper, etc.; self-control.  SELF-COMMUNE Self`-com*mune", n.  Self-communion. [R.]  SELF-COMMUNICATIVE Self`-com*mu"ni*ca*tive, a.  Imparting or communicating by its own powers.  SELF-COMMUNION Self`-com*mun"ion, n.  Communion with one's self; thoughts about one's self.  SELF-COMPLACENCY Self`-com*pla"cen*cy, n.  The quality of being self-complacent. J. Foster.  SELF-COMPLACENT Self`-com*pla"cent, a.  Satisfied with one's own character, capacity, and doings; self- satisfied.  SELF-CONCEIT Self`-con*ceit", n.  Conceit of one's self; an overweening opinion of one's powers or endowments.  Syn.  -- See Egotism.  SELF-CONCEITED Self`-con*ceit"ed, a.  Having an overweening opinion of one's own powers, attainments; vain; conceited.  -- Self`-con*ceit"ed*ness, n.  SELF-CONCERN Self`-con*cern", n.  Concern for one's self.  SELF-CONDEMNATION Self`-con`dem*na"tion, n.  Condemnation of one's self by one's own judgment.  SELF-CONFIDENCE Self`-con"fi*dence, n.  The quality or state of being self-confident; self-reliance. A feeling of self-confidence which supported and sustained him. Beaconsfield.  SELF-CONFIDENT Self`-con"fi*dent, a.  Confident of one's own strength or powers; relying on one's judgment or ability; self-reliant.  -- Self`-con"fi*dent*ly, adv.  SELF-CONJUGATE Self`-con"ju*gate, a. (Geom.)  Having the two things that are conjugate parts of the same figure; as, self-conjugate triangles.  SELF-CONSCIOUS Self`-con"scious, a.  1. Conscious of one's acts or state as belonging to, or originating in, one's self. "My self-conscious worth." Dryden.  2. Conscious of one's self as an object of the observation of others; as, the speaker was too self-conscious.  SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS Self`-con"scious*ness, n.  The quality or state of being self-conscious.  SELF-CONSIDERING Self`-con*sid"er*ing, a.  Considering in one's own mind; deliberating. Pope.  SELF-CONSISTENCY Self`-con*sist"en*cy, n.  The quality or state of being self-consistent.  SELF-CONSISTENT Self`-con*sist"ent, a.  Consistent with one's self or with itself; not deviation from the ordinary standard by which the conduct is guided; logically consistent throughout; having each part consistent with the rest.  SELF-CONSUMING Self`-con*sum"ing, a.  Consuming one's self or itself.  SELF-CONTAINED Self`-con*tained", a.  1. Having self-control; reserved; uncommunicative; wholly engrossed in one's self.  2. (Mach.)  Having all the essential working parts connected by a bedplate or framework, or contained in a case, etc., so that mutual relations of the parts do not depend upon fastening outside of the machine itself. Self-contained steam engine. (a) A steam engine having both bearings for the crank shaft attached to the frame of the engine. (b) A steam engine and boiler combined and fastened together; a portable steam engine.  SELF-CONTRADICTION Self`-con`tra*dic"tion, n.  The act of contradicting one's self or itself; repugnancy in conceptions or in terms; a proposition consisting of two members, one of which contradicts the other; as, to be and not to be at the same time is a self-contradiction.  SELF-CONTRADICTORY Self`-con`tra*dict"o*ry, a.  Contradicting one's self or itself.  SELF-CONTROL Self`-con*trol", n.  Control of one's self; restraint exercised over one's self; self-command.  SELF-CONVICTED Self`-con*vict"ed, a.  Convicted by one's own consciousness, knowledge, avowal, or acts.  SELF-CONVICTION Self`-con*vic"tion, n.  The act of convicting one's self, or the state of being self- convicted.  SELF-CREATED Self`-cre*at"ed, a.  Created by one's self; not formed or constituted by another.  SELF-CULTURE Self`-cul"ture, n.  Culture, training, or education of one's self by one's own efforts.  SELF-DECEIT Self`-de*ceit", n.  The act of deceiving one's self, or the state of being self- deceived; self-deception.  SELF-DECEIVED Self`-de*ceived", a.  Deceived or misled respecting one's self by one's own mistake or error.  SELF-DECEPTION Self`-de*cep"tion, n.  Self-deceit.  SELF-DEFENCE Self`-de*fence", n.  See Self-defense.  SELF-DEFENSE Self`-de*fense", n.  The act of defending one's own person, property, or reputation. In self-defense (Law), in protection of self, -- it being permitted in law to a party on whom a grave wrong is attempted to resist the wrong, even at the peril of the life of the assailiant. Wharton.  SELF-DEFENSIVE Self`-de*fen"sive, a.  Defending, or tending to defend, one's own person, property, or reputation.  SELF-DEGRADATION Self`-deg`ra*da"tion, n.  The act of degrading one's self, or the state of being so degraded.  SELF-DELATION Self`-de*la"tion, n.  Accusation of one's self. [R.] Milman.  SELF-DELUSION Self`-de*lu"sion, n.  The act of deluding one's self, or the state of being thus deluded.  SELF-DENIAL Self`-de*ni"al, n.  The denial of one's self; forbearing to gratify one's own desires; self-sacrifice.  SELF-DENYING Self`-de*ny"ing, a.  Refusing to gratify one's self; self-sacrificing.  -- Self`-de*ny"ing*ly, adv.  SELF-DEPENDENT Self`-de*pend"ent, a.  Dependent on one's self; self-depending; self-reliant.  SELF-DEPENDING Self`-de*pend"ing, a.  Depending on one's self.  SELF-DEPRAVED Self`-de*praved", a.  Corrupted or depraved by one's self. Milton.  SELF-DESTROYER Self`-de*stroy"er, n.  One who destroys himself; a suicide.  SELF-DESTRUCTION Self`-de*struc"tion, n.  The destruction of one's self; self-murder; suicide. Milton.  SELF-DESTRUCTIVE Self`-de*struc"tive, a.  Destroying, or tending to destroy, one's self or itself; rucidal.  SELF-DETERMINATION Self`-de*ter`mi*na"tion, n.  Determination by one's self; or, determination of one's acts or states without the necessitating force of motives; -- applied to the voluntary or activity.  SELF-DETERMINING Self`-de*ter"min*ing, a.  Capable of self-determination; as, the self-determining power of will.  SELF-DEVISED Self`-de*vised", a.  Devised by one's self.  SELF-DEVOTED Self`-de*vot"ed, a.  Devoted in person, or by one's own will. Hawthorne.  SELF-DEVOTEMENT Self`-de*vote"ment, n.  Self-devotion. [R.]  SELF-DEVOTION Self`-de*vo"tion, n.  The act of devoting one's self, or the state of being self- devoted; willingness to sacrifice one's own advantage or happiness for the sake of others; self-sacrifice.  SELF-DEVOURING Self`-de*vour"ing, a.  Devouring one's self or itself. Danham.  SELF-DIFFUSIVE Self`-dif*fu"sive, a.  Having power to diffuse itself; diffusing itself. Norris.  SELF-DISCIPLINE Self`-dis"ci*pline, n.  Correction or government of one's self for the sake of improvement.  SELF-DISTRUST Self`-dis*trust", n.  Want of confidence in one' self; diffidence.  SELF-EDUCATED Self`-ed"u*ca`ted, a.  Educated by one's own efforts, without instruction, or without pecuniary assistance from others.  SELF-ELECTIVE Self`-e*lect"ive, a.  Having the right of electing one's self, or, as a body, of electing its own members.  SELF-ENJOYMENT Self`-en*joy"ment, n.  Enjoyment of one's self; self-satisfaction.  SELF-ESTEEM Self`-es*teem", n.  The holding a good opinion of one's self; self-complacency.  SELF-ESTIMATION Self`-es`ti*ma"tion, n.  The act of estimating one's self; self-esteem.  SELF-EVIDENCE Self`-ev"i*dence, n.  The quality or state of being self-evident. Locke.  SELF-EVIDENT Self`-ev"i*dent, a.  Evident without proof or reasoning; producing certainty or conviction upon a bare presentation to the mind; as, a self-evident proposition or truth.  -- Self`-ev"i*dent*ly, adv.  SELF-EVOLUTION Self`-ev`o*lu"tion, n.  Evolution of one's self; development by inherent quality or power.  SELF-EXALTATION Self`-ex`al*ta"tion, n.  The act of exalting one's self, or the state of being so exalted.  SELF-EXAMINANT Self`-ex*am"i*nant, n.  One who examines himself; one given to self-examination. The humiliated self-examinant feels that there is evil in our nature as well as good. Coleridge.  SELF-EXAMINATION Self`-ex*am`i*na"tion, n.  An examination into one's own state, conduct, and motives, particularly in regard to religious feelings and duties.  SELF-EXCITE Self`-ex*cite", v. t. (Elec.)  To energize or excite (the field magnets of a dynamo) by induction from the residual magnetism of its cores, leading all or a part of the current thus produced through the field-magnet coils.  SELF-EXISTENCE Self`-ex*ist"ence, n.  Inherent existence; existence possessed by virtue of a being's own nature, and independent of any other being or cause; -- an attribute peculiar to God. Blackmore.  SELF-EXISTENT Self`-ex*ist"ent, a.  Existing of or by himself,independent of any other being or cause; -- as, God is the only self-existent being.  SELF-EXPLAINING self`-ex*plain"ing, a.  Explaining itself; capable of being understood without explanation.  SELF-EXPOSURE Self`-ex*po"sure, n.  The act of exposing one's self; the state of being so exposed.  SELF-FERTILIZATION Self`-fer`ti*li*za"tion, n. (Bot.)  The fertilization of a flower by pollen from the same flower and without outer aid; autogamy.  SELF-FERTILIZED Self`-fer"ti*lized, a. (Bot.)  Fertilized by pollen from the same flower.  SELF-GLORIOUS Self`-glo"ri*ous, a.  Springing from vainglory or vanity; vain; boastful. Dryden.  SELF-GOVERNMENT Self`-gov"ern*ment, n.  1. The act of governing one's self, or the state of being governed by one's self; self-control; self-command.  2. Hence, government of a community, state, or nation by the joint action of the mass of people constituting such a civil body; also, the state of being so governed; democratic government; democracy. It is to self-government, the great principle of popular representation and administration, -- the system that lets in all to participate in the councels that are to assign the good or evil to all, -- that we may owe what we are and what we hope to be. D. Webster.  SELF-GRATULATION Self`-grat`u*la"tion, n.  Gratulation of one's self.  SELF-HARDENING Self`-hard"en*ing, a. (Metal.)  Designating, or pert. to, any of various steels that harden when heated to above a red heat and cooled in air, usually in a blast of cold air with moderate rapidity, without quenching. Such steels are alloys of iron and carbon with manganese, tungsten and manganese, chromium, molybdenum and manganese, etc. They are chiefly used as high-speed steels. -- Self`-hard"en*ed, a.  SELF-HEAL Self`-heal", n. (Bot.)  A blue-flowered labiate plant (Brunella vulgaris); the healall.  SELF-HEALING Self`-heal"ing, a.  Having the power or property of healing itself.  SELF-HELP Self`-help", n.  The act of aiding one's self, without depending on the aid of others.  SELF-HOMICIDE Self`-hom"i*cide, n.  The act of killing one's self; suicide. Hakewill. 

SELFHOOD:  Existence as a separate self, or independent person; conscious personality; individuality. Bib. Sacra.  SELF-IGNORANCE Self`-ig"no*rance, n.  Ignorance of one's own character, powers, and limitations.  SELF-IGNORANT Self`-ig"no*rant, a.  Ignorant of one's self.  SELF-IMPARTING Self`-im*part"ing, a.  Imparting by one's own, or by its own, powers and will. Norris.  SELF-IMPORTANCE Self`-im*por"tance, n.  An exaggerated estimate of one's own importance or merit, esp. as manifested by the conduct or manners; self-conceit.  SELF-IMPORTANT Self`-im*por"tant, a.  Having or manifesting an exaggerated idea of one's own importance or merit.  SELF-IMPOSED Self`-im*posed", a.  Voluntarily taken on one's self; as, self-imposed tasks.  SELF-IMPOSTURE Self`-im*pos"ture, n.  Imposture practiced on one's self; self-deceit. South.  SELF-INDIGNATION Self`-in`dig*na"tion, n.  Indignation at one's own character or actions. Baxter.  SELF-INDUCTION Self`-in*duc"tion, n. (Elec.)  Induction in a circuit due to the action of one portion of a current upon an adjacent portion during periods of varying current strength. The nature of the induction is such as to oppose the action which produces it.  SELF-INDULGENCE Self`-in*dul"gence, n.  Indulgence of one's appetites, desires, or inclinations; -- the opposite of self-restraint, and self-denial.  SELF-INDULGENT Self`-in*dul"gent, a.  Indulging one's appetites, desires, etc., freely.  SELF-INTEREST Self`-in"ter*est, n.  Private interest; the interest or advantage of one's self.  SELF-INTERESTED Self`-in"ter*est*ed, a.  Particularly concerned for one's own interest or happiness.  SELF-INVOLUTION Self`-in`vo*lu"tion, n.  Involution in one's self; hence, abstraction of thought; reverie. 

SELFISH:  Believing or teaching that the chief motives of human action are derived from love of self. Hobbes and the selfish school of philosophers. Fleming. 

SELFISHLY:  In a selfish manner; with regard to private interest only or chiefly. 

SELFISHNESS:  The quality or state of being selfish; exclusive regard to one's own interest or happiness; that supreme self-love or self- preference which leads a person to direct his purposes to the advancement of his own interest, power, or happiness, without regarding those of others. Selfishness,- a vice utterly at variance with the happiness of him who harbors it, and, as such, condemned by self-love. Sir J. Mackintosh.  Syn.  -- See Self-love. 

SELFISM:  Concentration of one's interests on one's self; self-love; selfishness. Emerson. 

SELFIST:  A selfish person. [R.] I. Taylor.  SELF-JUSTIFIER Self`-jus"ti*fi`er, n.  One who excuses or justifies himself. J. M. Mason.  SELF-KINDLED Self`-kin"dled, a.  Kindled of itself, or without extraneous aid or power. Dryden.  SELF-KNOWING Self`-know"ing, a.  1. Knowing one's self, or one's own character, powers, and limitations.  2. Knowing of itself, without help from another.  SELF-KNOWLEDGE Self`-knowl"edge, n.  Knowledge of one's self, or of one's own character, powers, limitations, etc. 

SELFLESS:  Having no regard to self; unselfish. Lo now, what hearts have men! they never mount As high as woman in her selfless mood. Tennyson. 

SELFLESSNESS:  Quality or state of being selfless.  SELF-LIFE Self"-life`, n.  Life for one's self; living solely or chiefly for one's own pleasure or good.  SELF-LOVE Self`-love`, n.  The love of one's self; desire of personal happiness; tendency to seek one's own benefit or advantage. Shak. Self-love, the spring of motion, acts the soul. Pope.  Syn.  -- Selfishness.  -- Self-love, Selfishness. The term self-love is used in a twofold sense: 1. It denotes that longing for good or for well-being which actuates the breasts of all, entering into and characterizing every special desire. In this sense it has no moral quality, being, from the nature of the case, neither good nor evil. 2. It is applied to a voluntary regard for the gratification of special desires. In this sense it is morally good or bad according as these desires are conformed to duty or opposed to it. Selfishness is always voluntary and always wrong, being that regard to our own interests, gratification, etc., which is sought or indulged at the expense, and to the injury, of others. "So long as self-love does not degenerate into selfishness, it is quite compatible with true benevolence." Fleming. "Not only is the phrase self-love used as synonymous with the desire of happiness, but it is often confounded with the word selfishness, which certainly, in strict propriety, denotes a very different disposition of mind." Slewart.  SELF-LUMINOUS Self`-lu"mi*nous, a.  Possessing in itself the property of emitting light. Sir D. Brewster.  SELF-MADE Self"-made`, a.  Made by one's self. Self-made man, a man who has risen from poverty or obscurity by means of his own talentss or energies.  SELF-METTLE Self"-met`tle, n  Inborn mettle or courage; one's own temper. [Obs.] Shak.  SELF-MOTION Self`-mo"tion, n.  Motion given by inherent power, without external impulse; spontaneus or voluntary motion. Matter is not induced with self-motion. Cheyne.  SELF-MOVED Self`-moved", a.  Moved by inherent power., without the aid of external impulse.  SELF-MOVING Self`-mov"ing, a.  Moving by inherent power, without the aid of external impulse.  SELF-MURDER Self`-mur"der, a.  Suicide.  SELF-MURDERER Self`-mur"der*er, n.  A suicide.  SELF-NEGLECTING Self`-neg*lect"ing, n.  A neglecting of one's self, or of one's own interests. Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin As self-neglecting. Shak. 

SELFNESS:  Selfishness. [Obs.] Sir. P. Sidney.  SELF-ONE Self`-one", a.  Secret. [Obs.] Marston.  SELF-OPINION Self`-o*pin"ion, n.  Opinion, especially high opinion, of one's self; an overweening estimate of one's self or of one's own opinion. Collier.  SELF-OPINIONED Self`-o*pin"ioned, a.  Having a high opinion of one's self; opinionated; conceited. South.  SELF-ORIGINATING Self`-o*rig"i*na`ting, a.  Beginning wwith, or springing from, one's self.  SELF-PARTIALITY Self`-par`ti*al"i*ty, n.  That partiality to himself by which a man overrates his own worth when compared with others. Kames.  SELF-PERPLEXED Self`-per*plexed", a.  Perplexed by doubts originating in one's own mind.  SELF-POSITED Self`-pos"it*ed, a.  Disposed or arranged by an action originating in one's self or in itself. These molecular blocks of salt are self-posited. Tyndall.  SELF-POSITING Self`-pos"it*ing, a.  The act of disposing or arranging one's self or itself. The self-positing of the molecules. R. Watts.  SELF-POSSESSED Self"-pos*sessed", a.  Composed or tranquill in mind, manner, etc.; undisturbed.  SELF-POSSESSION Self`-pos*ses"sion, n.  The possession of one's powers; calmness; self-command; presence of mind; composure.  SELF-PRAISE Self"-praise`, n.  Praise of one's self.  SELF-PRESERVATION Self`-pres`er*va"tion, n.  The preservation of one's self from destruction or injury.  SELF-PROPAGATING Self`-prop"a*ga`ting, a.  Propagating by one's self or by itself.  SELF-REGISTERING Self`-reg"is*ter*ing, a.  Registering itself; -- said of any instrument so contrived as to record its own indications of phenomena, whether continuously or at stated times, as at the maxima and minima of variations; as, a self-registering anemometer or barometer.  SELF-REGULATED Self`-reg"u*la`ted, a.  Regulated by one's self or by itself.  SELF-REGULATIVE Self`-reg"u*la*tive, a.  Tending or serving to regulate one's self or itself. Whewell.  SELF-RELIANCE Self`-re*li"ance, n.  Reliance on one's own powers or judgment; self-trust.  SELF-RELIANT Self`-re*li"ant, a.  Reliant upon one's self; trusting to one's own powers or judgment.  SELF-RENUNCIATION Self`-re*nun`ci*a"tion, n.  The act of renouncing, or setting aside, one's own wishes, claims, etc.; self-sacrifice.  SELF-REPELLENCY Self`-re*pel"len*cy, n.  The quality or state of being self-repelling.  SELF-REPELLING Self`-re*pel"ling, ( a.  Made up of parts, as molecules or atoms, which mutually repel each other; as, gases are self-repelling.  SELF-REPETITION Self`-rep`e*ti"tion, n.  Repetition of one's self or of one's acts; the saying or doing what one has already said or done.  SELF-REPROACH Self`-re*proach", n.  The act of reproaching one's self; censure by one's own conscience.  SELF-REPROACHED Self`-re*proached", a.  Reproached by one's own conscience or judgment.  SELF-REPROACHING Self`-re*proach"ing, a.  Reproaching one's self.  -- Self`-re*proach"ing*ly, adv.  SELF-REPROOF Self`-re*proof", n.  The act of reproving one's self; censure of one's conduct by one's own judgment.  SELF-REPROVED Self`-re*proved", a.  Reproved by one's own conscience or one's own sense of guilt.  SELF-REPROVING Self`-re*prov"ing, a.  Reproving one's self; reproving by consciousness of guilt.  SELF-REPROVINGLY Self`-re*prov"ing*ly, adv.  In a self-reproving way.  SELF-REPUGNANT Self`-re*pug"nant, a.  Self-contradictory; inconsistent. Brougham.  SELF-REPULSIVE Self`-re*pul"sive, a.  Self-repelling.  SELF-RESPECT Self`-re*spect", n.  Respect for one's self; regard for one's character; laudable self-esteem.  SELF-RESTRAINED Self`-re*strained", a.  Restrained by one's self or itself; restrained by one's own power or will.  SELF-RESTRAINT Self`-re*straint", n.  Restraint over one's self; self-control; self-command.  SELF-REVERENCE Self`-rev"er*ence, n.  A reverent respect for one's self. Tennyson.  SELF-RIGHTEOUS Self`-right"eous, a.  Righteous in one's own esteem; pharisaic.  SELF-RIGHTEOUSNESS Self`-right"eous*ness, n.  The quality or state of being self-righteous; pharisaism.  SELF-SACRIFICE Self`-sac"ri*fice, n.  The act of sacrificing one's self, or one's interest, for others; self-devotion.  SELF-SACRIFICING Self`-sac"ri*fi`cing, a.  Yielding up one's own interest, ffeelings, etc; sacrificing one's self. 

SELFSAME:  Precisely the same; the very same; identical. His servant was healed in the selfsame hour. Matt. viii. 13.  SELF-SATISFACTION Self`-sat`is*fac"tion, n.  The quality or state of being self-satisfied.  SELF-SATISFIED Self`-sat"is*fied, a.  Satisfied with one's self or one's actions; self-complacent.  SELF-SATISFYING Self`-sat"is*fy`ing, a.  Giving satisfaction to one's self.  SELF-SEEKER Self"-seek`er, n.  One who seeks only his own interest, advantage, or pleasure.  SELF-SEEKING Self"-seek`ing, a.  Seeking one's own interest or happiness; selfish. Arbuthnot.  SELF-SEEKING Self"-seek`ing, n.  The act or habit of seeking one's own interest or happiness; selfishness.  SELF-SLAUGHTER Self`-slaugh"ter, n.  Suicide. Shak.  SELF-STARTER Self`-start"er, n.  A mechanism (usually one operated by electricity, compressed air, a spring, or an explosive gas), attached to an internal- combustion engine, as on an automobile, and used as a means of starting the engine without cranking it by hand.  SELF-SUFFICIENCY Self`-suf*fi"cien*cy, n.  The quality or state of being self-sufficient.  SELF-SUFFICIENT Self`-suf*fi"cient, a.  1. Sufficient for one's self without external aid or coöperation. Neglect of friends can never be proved rational till we prove the person using it omnipotent and self-sufficient, and such as can never need any mortal assistance. South.  2. Having an overweening confidence in one's own abilities or worth; hence, haughty; overbearing. "A rash and self-sufficient manner." I. Watts.  SELF-SUFFICING Self`-suf*fi"cing, a.  Sufficing for one's self or for itself, without needing external aid; self-sufficient.  -- Self`-suf*fi"cing*ness, n. J. C. Shairp.  SELF-SUSPENDED Self`-sus*pend"ed, a.  Suspended by one's self or by itself; balanced. Southey.  SELF-SUSPICIOUS Self`-sus*pi"cious, a.  Suspicious or distrustful of one's self. Baxter.  SELF-TAUGHT Self"-taught`, a.  Taught by one's own efforts.  SELF-TORMENTOR Self`-tor*ment"or, n.  One who torments himself.  SELF-TORTURE Self`-tor"ture, n.  The act of inflicting pain on one's self; pain inflicted on one's self.  SELF-TRUST Self"-trust`, n.  Faith in one's self; self-reliance.  SELF-UNED Self`-uned", a. Etym: [E. self + L. unus one.]  One with itself; separate from others. [Obs.] Sylvester.  SELF-VIEW Self"-view`, n.  A view if one's self; specifically, carefulness or regard for one's own interests  SELF-WILL Self`-will", n. Etym: [AS. selfwill.]  One's own will, esp. when opposed to that of others; obstinacy.  SELF-WILLED Self`-willed", a.  Governed by one's own will; not yielding to the wishes of others; obstinate.  SELF-WILLEDNESS Self`-willed"ness, n.  Obstinacy. Sir W. Scott.  SELF-WORSHIP Self"-wor`ship, n.  The idolizing of one's self; immoderate self-conceit.  SELF-WRONG Self"-wrong`, n.  Wrong done by a person himself. Shak. 

SELION:  A short piece of land in arable ridges and furrows, of uncertain quantity; also, a ridge of land lying between two furrows. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SELJUKIAN:  Of or pertaining to Seljuk, a Tartar chief who embraced Mohammedanism, and began the subjection of Western Asia to that faith and rule; of or pertaining to the dynasty founded by him, or the empire maintained by his descendants from the 10th to the 13th century. J. H. Newman.  SELJUKIAN; SELJUCKIAN Sel*juk"i*an, Sel*juck"i*an, n.  A member of the family of Seljuk; an adherent of that family, or subject of its government; (pl.) the dynasty of Turkish sultans sprung from Seljuk. 

SELL:  Self. [Obs. or Scot.] B. Jonson. 

SELL:  A sill. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SELL:  A cell; a house. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SELL:  An imposition; a cheat; a hoax. [Colloq.]  SELLANDERS; SELLENDERS Sel"lan*ders, Sel"len*ders, n. pl. (Far.)  See Sallenders. 

SELLER:  One who sells. Chaucer.  SELTERS WATER Sel"ters wa"ter.  A mineral water from Sellers, in the district of Nassan, Germany, containing much free carbonic acid.  SELTZER WATER Selt"zer wa"ter.  See Selters water.  SELTZO-GENE Selt"zo-gene, n. Etym: [Seltzer water + the root of Gr.  A gazogene.  SELVAGE; SELVEDGE Sel"vage, Sel"vedge, n. Etym: [Self + edge, i. e., its own proper edge; cf. OD. selfegge.]  1. The edge of cloth which is woven in such a manner as to prevent raveling.  2. The edge plate of a lock, through which the bolt passes. Knight.  3. (Mining.)  A layer of clay or decomposed rock along the wall of a vein. See Gouge, n., 4. Raymond.  SELVAGED; SELVEDGED Sel"vaged, Sel"vedged, a.  Having a selvage. 

SELVAGEE:  A skein or hank of rope yarns wound round with yarns or marline, -- used for stoppers, straps, etc. 

SELVE:  Self; same. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SELVES:  pl. of Self. 

SELY:  Silly. [Obs.] Chaucer. Wyclif. 

SEMAEOSTOMATA:  A division of Discophora having large free mouth lobes. It includes Aurelia, and Pelagia. Called also Semeostoma. See Illustr. under Discophora, and Medusa. 

SEMAPHORE:  A signal telegraph; an apparatus for giving signals by the disposition of lanterns, flags, oscillating arms, etc.  SEMAPHORIC; SEMAPHORICAL Sem`a*phor"ic, Sem`a*phor"ic*al a. Etym: [Cf. F. sémaphorique.]  Of or pertaining to a semaphore, or semaphores; telegraphic. 

SEMAPHORICALLY:  By means a semaphore. 

SEMAPHORIST:  One who manages or operates a semaphore. 

SEMASIOLOGY:  The science of meanings or sense development (of words); the explanation of the development and changes of the meanings of words. --Se*ma`si*o*log"ic*al (#), a. 

SEMATIC:  Significant; ominous; serving as a warning of danger; --applied esp. to the warning colors or forms of certain animals. 

SEMATOLOGY:  The doctrine of signs as the expression of thought or reasoning; the science of indicating thought by signs. Smart. 

SEMATROPE:  An instrument for signaling by reflecting the rays of the sun in different directions. Knight. 

SEMBLABLE:  Like; similar; resembling. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SEMBLABLE:  Likeness; representation. [Obs.] 

SEMBLABLY:  In like manner. [Obs.] Shak. 

SEMBLATIVE:  Resembling. [Obs.] And all is semblative a woman's part. Shak. 

SEMBLE:  It seems; -- chiefly used impersonally in reports and judgments to express an opinion in reference to the law on some point not necessary to be decided, and not intended to be definitely settled in the cause. 

SEMBLE:  Like; resembling. [Obs.] T. Hudson. 

SEMBLING:  The practice of attracting the males of Lepidoptera or other insects by exposing the female confined in a cage.  Note: It is often adopted by collectors in order to procure specimens of rare species. 

SEME:  Sprinkled or sown; -- said of field, or a charge, when strewed or covered with small charges.  SEMEIOGRAPHY; SEMIOGRAPHY Se`mei*og"ra*phy, or; Se`mi*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. shmei^on sign + -graphy.] (Med.)  A description of the signs of disease.  SEMEIOLOGICAL; SEMIOLOGIOAL Se`mei*o*log"ic*al, or; Se`mi*o*log"io*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the science of signs, or the systematic use of signs; as, a semeiological classification of the signs or symptoms of disease; a semeiological arrangement of signs used as signals.  SEMEIOLOGY; SEMIOLOGY Se`mei*ol"o*gy, or Se`mi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. shmei^on a mark, a sign + -logy.]  The science or art of signs. Specifically: (a) (Med.) The science of the signs or symptoms of disease; symptomatology. (b) The art of using signs in signaling.  SEMEIOTIC; SEMIOTIC Se`mei*ot"ic, or Se`mi*ot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. shmei^on a mark, a sign.]  1. Relating to signs or indications; pertaining to the language of signs, or to language generally as indicating thought.  2. (Med.)  Of or pertaining to the signs or symptoms of diseases.  SEMEIOTICS; SEMIOTICS Se`mei*ot"ics, or Se`mi*ot"ics, n.  Semeiology. 

SEMELE:  A daughter of Cadmus, and by Zeus mother of Bacchus. 

SEMEN:  The seed of plants.  2. (Physiol.)  The seed or fecundating fluid of male animals; sperm. It is a white or whitish viscid fluid secreted by the testes, characterized by the presence of spermatozoids to which it owes its generative power. Semen contra, or Semen cinæ or cynæ, a strong aromatic, bitter drug, imported from Aleppo and Barbary, said to consist of the leaves, peduncles, and unexpanded flowers of various species of Artemisia; wormseed. 

SEMENIFEROUS:  Seminiferous. 

SEMESTER:  A period of six months; especially, a term in a college or uneversity which divides the year into two terms.  SEMI- Sem"i-. Etym: [L. semi; akin to Gr. sami-, AS. sam-, and prob. to E. same, from the division into two parts of the same size. Cf. Hemi-, Sandelend.]  A prefix signifying half, and sometimes partly or imperfectly; as, semiannual, half yearly; semitransparent, imperfectly transparent.  Note: The prefix semi is joined to another word either with the hyphen or without it. In this book the hyphen is omitted except before a capital letter; as, semiacid, semiaquatic, semi-Arian, semiaxis, semicalcareous. 

SEMIACID:  Slightly acid; subacid. 

SEMIACIDIFIED:  Half acidified. 

SEMIADHERENT:  Adherent part way. 

SEMIAMPLEXICAUL:  Partially amplexicaul; embracing the stem half round, as a leaf. 

SEMIANGLE:  The half of a given, or measuring, angle. 

SEMIANNUAL:  Half-yearly. 

SEMIANNUALLY:  Every half year. 

SEMIANNULAR:  Having the figure of a half circle; forming a semicircle. Grew.  SEMI-ARIAN Sem`i-A"ri*an, n. Etym: [See Arian.] (Eccl. Hist.)  A member of a branch of the Arians which did not acknowledge the Son to be consubstantial with the Father, that is, of the same substance, but admitted him to be of a like substance with the Father, not by nature, but by a peculiar privilege.  SEMI-ARIAN Sem"i-A"ri*an, a.  Of or pertaining to Semi-Arianism.  SEMI-ARIANISM Sem`i-A"ri*an*ism, n.  The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Arians. 

SEMIAXIS:  One half of the axis of an 

SEMIBARBARIAN:  Half barbarous; partially civilized.  -- n.  One partly civilized. 

SEMIBARBARIC:  Half barbarous or uncivilized; as, semibarbaric display. 

SEMIBARBARISM:  The quality or state of being half barbarous or uncivilized. 

SEMIBARBAROUS:  Half barbarous. 

SEMIBREVE:  A note of half the time or duration of the breve; -- now usually called a whole note. It is the longest note in general use. 

SEMIBRIEF:  A semibreve. [R.] 

SEMIBULL:  A bull issued by a pope in the period between his election and coronation. 

SEMICALCAREOUS:  Half or partially calcareous; as, a semicalcareous plant. 

SEMICALCINED:  Half calcined; as, semicalcined iron. 

SEMICASTRATE:  To deprive of one testicle.  -- Sem`i*cas*tra"tion,n. 

SEMICENTENNIAL:  Of or pertaining to half of a century, or a period of fifty years; as, a semicentennial commemoration. 

SEMICENTENNIAL:  A fiftieth anniversary. 

SEMICHAOTIC:  Partially chaotic. 

SEMICHORUS:  A half chorus; a passage to be sung by a selected portion of the voices, as the female voices only, in contrast with the full choir.  SEMI-CHRISTIANIZED Sem`i-Chris"tian*ized, a.  Half Christianized. 

SEMICIRCLED:  Semicircular. Shak. 

SEMICIRCULAR:  Having the form of half of a circle. Addison. Semicircular canals (Anat.), certain canals of the inner ear. See under Ear.  SEMI CIRCUMFERENCE Sem`i cir*cum"fer*ence, n.  Half of a circumference. 

SEMICIRQUE:  A semicircular hollow or opening among trees or hills. Wordsworth. 

SEMICOLON:  The punctuation mark [;] indicating a separation between parts or members of a sentence more distinct than that marked by a comma. 

SEMICOLUMN:  A half column; a column bisected longitudinally, or along its axis. 

SEMICOLUMNAR:  Like a semicolumn; flat on one side and round on the other; imperfectly columnar. 

SEMICOMPACT:  Half compact; imperfectly indurated. 

SEMICONSCIOUS:  Half conscious; imperfectly conscious. De Quincey. 

SEMICOPE:  A short cope, or an inferier kind of cope. [Obs.] Chaucer.  SEMI CRUSTACEOUS Sem`i crus*ta"ceous, a.  Half crustaceous; partially crustaceous. 

SEMICRYSTALLINE:  Half crystalline; -- said of certain cruptive rocks composed partly of crystalline, partly of amorphous matter. 

SEMICUBICAL:  Of or pertaining to the square root of the cube of a quantity. Semicubical parabola, a curve in which the ordinates are proportional to the square roots of the cubes of the abscissas.  SEMICUBIUM; SEMICUPIUM Sem`i*cu"bi*um, Sem`i*cu"pi*um, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. semi half + cupa tub, cask.]  A half bath, or one that covers only the lewer extremities and the hips; a sitz-bath; a half bath, or hip bath.  SEMICYLINDRIC; SEMICYLYNDRICAL Sem`i*cy*lin"dric, Sem`i*cy*lyn"dric*al a.  Half cylindrical. 

SEMIDEISTICAL:  Half deisticsl; bordering on deism. S. Miller. 

SEMIDEMIQUAVER:  A demisemiquaver; a thirty-second note. 

SEMIDETACHED:  Half detached; partly distinct or separate. Semidetached house, one of two tenements under a single roof, but separated by a party wall. [Eng.] 

SEMIDIAMETER:  Half of a diameter; a right line, or the length of a right line, drawn from the center of a circle, a sphere, or other curved figure, to its circumference or periphery; a radius. 

SEMIDIAPASON:  An imperfect octave. 

SEMIDIAPENTE:  An imperfect or diminished fifth. Busby. 

SEMIDIAPHANEITY:  Half or imperfect transparency; translucency. [R.] Boyle. 

SEMIDIAPHANOUS:  Half or imperfectly transparent; translucent. Woodward. 

SEMIDIATESSARON:  An imperfect or diminished fourth. [R.]  SEMI-DIESEL Sem`i-Die"sel, a.  Designating an internal-combustion engine of a type resembling the Diesel engine in using as fuel heavy oil which is injected in a spray just before the end of the compression stroke and is fired without electrical ignition. The fuel is sprayed into an iron box (called a hot bulb or hot pot) opening into the combustion chamber, and heated for ignition by a blast-lamp until the engine is running, when it is, ordinarily, kept red hot by the heat of combustion. 

SEMIDITONE:  A lesser third, having its terms as 6 to 5; a hemiditone. [R.] 

SEMIDOME:  A roof or ceiling covering a semicircular room or recess, or one of nearly that shape, as the apse of a church, a niche, or the like. It is approximately the quarter of a hollow sphere. 

SEMIDOUBLE:  An office or feast celebrated with less solemnity than the double ones. See Double, n., 8. 

SEMIDOUBLE:  Having the outermost stamens converted into petals, while the inner ones remain perfect; -- said of a flower. 

SEMIFABLE:  That which is part fable and part truth; a mixture of truth and fable. De Quincey. 

SEMIFLEXED:  Half bent. 

SEMIFLORET:  See Semifloscule. 

SEMIFLOSCULAR:  Semiflosculous. 

SEMIFLOSCULE:  A floscule, or florest, with its corolla prolonged into a strap-shaped petal; -- called also semifloret. 

SEMIFLOSCULOUS:  Having all the florets ligulate, as in the dandelion. 

SEMIFLUID:  Imperfectly fluid.  -- n.  A semifluid substance. 

SEMIFORM:  A half form; an imperfect form. 

SEMIFORMED:  Half formed; imperfectly formed; as, semiformed crystals. 

SEMIGLUTIN:  A peptonelike body, insoluble in alcohol, formed by boiling collagen or gelatin for a long time in water. Hemicollin, a like body, is also formed at the same time, and differs from semiglutin by being partly soluble in alcohol. 

SEMIHISTORICAL:  Half or party historical. Sir G. C. Lewis. 

SEMIHORAL:  Half-hourly. 

SEMIINDURATED:  Imperfectly indurated or hardened. 

SEMILAPIDIFIED:  Imperfectly changed into stone. Kirwan. 

SEMILENS:  The half of a lens divided along a plane passing through its axis. 

SEMILENTICULAR:  Half lenticular or convex; imperfectly resembling a lens. Kirwan. 

SEMILIGNEOUS:  Half or partially ligneous, as a stem partly woody and partly herbaceous. 

SEMILIQUID:  Half liquid; semifluid. 

SEMILIQUIDITY:  The quality or state of being semiliquid; partial liquidity. 

SEMILOGICAL:  Half logical; partly logical; said of fallacies. Whately. 

SEMILOR:  A yellowish alloy of copper and zinc. See Simplor. 

SEMILUNAR:  Shaped like a half moon. Semilunar bone (Anat.), a bone of the carpus; the lunar. See Lunar, n.  -- Semilunar, or Sigmoid, valves (Anat.), the valves at the beginning of the aorta and of the pulmonary artery which prevent the blood from flowing back into the ventricle. 

SEMILUNAR:  The semilunar bone. 

SEMILUNARY:  Semilunar. 

SEMILUNATE:  Semilunar. 

SEMILUNE:  The half of a lune. 

SEMIMETAL:  An element possessing metallic properties in an inferior degree and not malleable, as arsenic, antimony, bismuth, molybdenum, uranium, etc. [Obs.] 

SEMIMETALLIC:  Of or pertaining to a semimetal; possessing metallic properties in an inferior degree; resembling metal. 

SEMIMONTHLY:  Coming or made twice in a month; as, semimonthly magazine; a semimonthly payment.  -- n.  Something done or made every half month; esp., a semimonthly periodical.  -- adv.  In a semimonthly manner; at intervals of half a month. 

SEMIMUTE:  Having the faculty of speech but imperfectly developed or partially lost. 

SEMIMUTE:  A semimute person. 

SEMINAL:  A seed. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SEMINALITY:  The quality or state of being seminal. Sir T. Browne. 

SEMINAR:  A group of students engaged, under the guidance of an instructor, in original research in a particular line of study, and in the exposition of the results by theses, lectures, etc.; -- called also seminary.  SEMINARIAN; SEMINARIST Sem`i*na"ri*an, Sem"i*na*rist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. séminariste.]  A member of, or one educated in, a seminary; specifically, an ecclesiastic educated for the priesthood in a seminary. 

SEMINARY:  Belonging to seed; seminal. [R.] 

SEMINATE:  To sow; to spread; to propagate. [R.] Waterhouse. 

SEMINATION:  Natural dispersion of seeds. Martyn. 

SEMINED:  Thickly covered or sown, as with seeds. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SEMINIFEROUS:  Seed-bearing; producing seed; pertaining to, or connected with, the formation of semen; as, seminiferous cells or vesicles.  SEMINIFIC; SEMINIFICAL Sem`i*nif"ic, Sem`i*nif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. semen, seminis, seed + facere to make.] (Biol.)  Forming or producing seed, or the male generative product of animals or of plants. 

SEMINIFICATION:  Propagation from seed. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

SEMINIST:  A believer in the old theory that the newly created being is formed by the admixture of the seed of the male with the supposed seed of the female. 

SEMINOLES:  A tribe of Indians who formerly occupied Florida, where some of them still remain. They belonged to the Creek Confideration. 

SEMINOSE:  A carbohydrate of the glucose group found in the thickened endosperm of certain seeds, and extracted as yellow sirup having a sweetish-bitter taste. 

SEMINUDE:  Partially nude; half naked. 

SEMINYMPH:  The pupa of insects which undergo only a slight change in passing to the imago state. 

SEMIOCCASIONALLY:  Once in a while; on rare occasions. [Colloq. U. S.] 

SEMIOFFICIAL:  Half official; having some official authority or importance; as, a semiofficial statement.  -- Sem`i*of*fi"cial*ly, adv.  SEMIOGRAPHY; SEMIOLOGY; SEMIOLOGICAL Se`mi*og"ra*phy, Se`mi*ol"o*gy, Se`mi*o*log"ic*al.  Same as Semeiography, Semeiology, Semeiological. 

SEMIOPACOUS:  Semiopaque. 

SEMIOPAL:  A variety of opal not possessing opalescence. 

SEMIOPAQUE:  Half opaque; only half transparent. 

SEMIORBICULAR:  Having the shape of a half orb or sphere. 

SEMIOTIC:  Same as Semeiotic. 

SEMIOTICS:  Same as Semeiotics. 

SEMIOVAL:  Half oval. 

SEMIOVATE:  Half ovate. 

SEMIOXYGENATED:  Combined with oxygen only in part. Kirwan. 

SEMIPAGAN:  Half pagan.  SEMIPALMATE; SEMIPALMATED Sem`i*pal"mate, Sem`i*pal"ma*ted, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the anterior toes joined only part way down with a web; half-webbed; as, a semipalmate bird or foot. See Illust. k under Aves. 

SEMIPARABOLA:  One branch of a parabola, being terminated at the principal vertex of the curve. 

SEMIPED:  A half foot in poetry. 

SEMIPEDAL:  Containing a half foot.  SEMI-PELAGIAN Sem`i-Pe*la"gi*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)  A follower of John Cassianus, a French monk (died about 448), who modified the doctrines of Pelagius, by denying human merit, and maintaining the necessity of the Spirit's influence, while, on the other hand, he rejected the Augustinian doctrines of election, the inability of man to do good, and the certain perseverance of the saints.  SEMI-PELAGIAN Sem`i-Pe*la"gi*an, a.  Of or pertaining to the Semi-Pelagians, or their tenets.  SEMI-PELAGIANISM Sem`i-Pe*la"gi*an*ism, n.  The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Pelagians. 

SEMIPELLUCID:  Half clear, or imperfectly transparent; as, a semipellucid gem. 

SEMIPELLUCIDITY:  The qualiti or state of being imperfectly transparent. 

SEMIPENNIFORM:  Half or partially penniform; as, a semipenniform muscle. 

SEMIPERMANENT:  Half or partly permanent. 

SEMIPERSPICUOUS:  Half transparent; imperfectly clear; semipellucid. 

SEMIPHLOGISTICATED:  Partially impregnated with phlogiston. 

SEMIPLUME:  A feather which has a plumelike web, with the shaft of an ordinary feather. 

SEMIPRECIOUS:  Somewhat precious; as, semiprecious stones or metals. 

SEMIPROOF:  Half proof; evidence from the testimony of a single witness. [Obs.] Bailey.  SEMI PUPA Sem`i pu"pa, n. (Zoöl.)  The young of an insect in a stage between the larva and pupa.  SEMIQUADRATE; SEMIQUARTILE Sem"i*quad`rate, Sem"i*quar"tile, n. (Astrol.)  An aspect of the planets when distant from each other the half of a quadrant, or forty-five degrees, or one sign and a half. Hutton. 

SEMIQUAVER:  A note of half the duration of the quaver; -- now usually called a sixsteenth note. 

SEMIQUINTILE:  An aspect of the planets when distant from each other half of the quintile, or thirty-six degrees. 

SEMIRADIAL:  Half radial.  SEMIRADIAL ENGINE Semiradial engine. (Mach.)  See Radial engine, above. 

SEMIRECONDITE:  Half hidden or half covered; said of the head of an insect when half covered by the shield of the thorax. 

SEMIRING:  One of the incomplete rings of the upper part of the bronchial tubes of most birds. The semerings form an essential part of the syrinx, or musical organ, of singing birds. 

SEMISAVAGE:  Half savage. 

SEMISAVAGE:  One who is half savage.  SEMI-SAXON Sem`i-Sax"on, a.  Half Saxon; -- specifically applied to the language intermediate between Saxon and English, belonging to the period 1150- 1250. 

SEMISEXTILE:  An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other the twelfth part of a circle, or thirty degrees. Hutton. 

SEMISOLID:  Partially solid. 

SEMISOUN:  A half sound; a low tone. [Obs.] "Soft he cougheth with a semisoun." Chaucer.  SEMISPHERIC; SEMISPHERICAL Sem`i*spher"ic, Sem`i*spher"ic*al, a.  Having the figure of a half sphere. Kirwan. 

SEMISPHEROIDAL:  Formed like a half spheroid. 

SEMISTEEL:  Puddled steel. [U. S. ] 

SEMITA:  A fasciole of a spatangoid sea urchin. 

SEMITANGENT:  The tangent of half an arc. 

SEMITE:  One belonging to the Semitic race. Also used adjectively. [Written also Shemite.] 

SEMITERETE:  Half terete. 

SEMITERTIAN:  Having the characteristics of both a tertian and a quotidian intermittent.  -- n.  An intermittent combining the characteristics of a tertian and a quotidian. 

SEMITIC:  Of or pertaining to Shem or his descendants; belonging to that division of the Caucasian race which includes the Arabs, Jews, and related races. [Written also Shemitic.] Semitic language, a name used to designate a group of Asiatic and African languages, some living and some dead, namely: Hebrew and Phoenician, Aramaic, Assyrian, Arabic, Ethiopic (Geez and Ampharic). Encyc. Brit. 

SEMITISM:  A Semitic idiom; a word of Semitic origin. [Written also Shemitism.] 

SEMITONE:  Half a tone; -- the name commonly applied to the smaller intervals of the diatonic scale.  Note: There is an impropriety in the use of this word, and half step is now preferred. See Tone. J. S. Dwight. 

SEMITONIC:  Of or pertaining to a semitone; consisting of a semitone, or of semitones. 

SEMITONTINE:  Lit., half-tontine; -- used to designate a form of tontine life insurance. See Tontine insurance. --Sem`i*ton*tine", n. 

SEMITRANSEPT:  The half of a transept; as, the north semitransept of a church. 

SEMITRANSLUCENT:  Slightly clear; transmitting light in a slight degree. 

SEMITRANSPARENCY:  Imperfect or partial transparency. 

SEMITRANSPARENT:  Half or imperfectly transparent. 

SEMIVERTICILLATE:  Partially verticillate. 

SEMIVIF:  Only half alive. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

SEMIVITREOUS:  Partially vitreous. 

SEMIVITRIFIED:  Half or imperfectly vitrified; partially converted into glass. 

SEMIVOCAL:  Of or pertaining to a semivowel; half cocal; imperfectly sounding. 

SEMIWEEKLY:  Coming, or made, or done, once every half week; as, a semiweekly newspaper; a semiweekly trip.  -- n.  That which comes or happens once every half week, esp. a semiweekly periodical.  -- adv.  At intervals of half a week each. 

SEMOLELLA:  See Semolina. 

SEMOLINA:  The fine, hard parts of wheat, rounded by the attrition of the millstones, -- used in cookery. 

SEMOLINO:  Same as Semolina. 

SEMOULE:  Same as Semolina. 

SEMPERVIRENT:  Always fresh; evergreen. [R.] Smart. 

SEMPERVIVE:  The houseleek. 

SEMPERVIVUM:  A genus of fleshy-leaved plants, of which the houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum) is the commonest species. 

SEMPITERNE:  Sempiternal. [Obs.] 

SEMPITERNITY:  Future duration without end; the relation or state of being sempiternal. Sir M. Hale. 

SEMPRE:  Always; throughout; as, sempre piano, always soft. 

SEMPSTER:  A seamster. [Obs.] 

SEMPSTRESS:  A seamstress. Two hundred sepstress were employed to make me shirts. Swift. 

SEMPSTRESSY:  Seamstressy. 

SEMSTER:  A seamster. [Obs.] 

SEMUNCIA:  A Roman coin equivalent to one twenty-fourth part of a Roman pound. 

SEN:  A Japanese coin, worth about one half of a cent. 

SEN:  Since. [Obs.] 

SENARY:  Of six; belonging to six; containing six. Dr. H. More. 

SENATE:  A body of elders appointed or elected from among the nobles of the nation, and having supreme legislative authority. The senate was thus the medium through which all affairs of the whole government had to pass. Dr. W. Smith.  (b) The upper and less numerous branch of a legislature in various countries, as in France, in the United States, in most of the separate States of the United States, and in some Swiss cantons. (c) In general, a legislative body; a state council; the legislative department of government.  2. The governing body of the Universities of Cambridge and London. [Eng.]  3. In some American colleges, a council of elected students, presided over by the president of the college, to which are referred cases of discipline and matters of general concern affecting the students. [U. S.] Senate chamber, a room where a senate meets when it transacts business.  -- Senate house, a house where a senate meets when it transacts business. 

SENATOR:  A member of the king's council; a king's councilor. Burrill. 

SENATORIALLY:  In a senatorial manner. 

SENATORIAN:  Senatorial. [R.] De Quincey. 

SENATORIOUS:  Senatorial. [Obs.] 

SENATORSHIP:  The office or dignity of a senator. Carew. 

SENATUSCONSULT:  A decree of the Roman senate. 

SEND:  To pitch; as, the ship sends forward so violently as to endanger her masts. Totten. To send for, to request or require by message to come or be brought. 

SEND:  The impulse of a wave by which a vessel is carried bodily. [Written also scend.] W. C. Russell. "The send of the sea". Longfellow. 

SENDAL:  A light thin stuff of silk. [Written also cendal, and sendal.] Chaucer. Wore she not a veil of twisted sendal embroidered with silver Sir W. Scott. 

SENDER:  One who sends. Shak. 

SENECAS:  A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited a part of Western New York. This tribe was the most numerous and most warlike of the Five Nations. Seneca grass(Bot.), holy grass. See under Holy.  -- Seneca eil, petroleum or naphtha.  -- Seneca root, or Seneca snakeroot (Bot.), the rootstock of an American species of milkworth (Polygala Senega) having an aromatic but bitter taste. It is often used medicinally as an expectorant and diuretic, and, in large doses, as an emetic and cathartic. [Written also Senega root, and Seneka root.] 

SENECIO:  A very large genus of composite plants including the groundsel and the golden ragwort. 

SENECTITUDE:  Old age. [R.] "Senectitude, weary of its toils." H. Miller. 

SENEGA:  Seneca root. 

SENEGAL:  Gum senegal. See under Gum. 

SENEGIN:  A substance extracted from the rootstock of the Polygala Senega (Seneca root), and probably identical with polygalic acid. 

SENESCENCE:  The state of growing old; decay by time. 

SENESCENT:  Growing old; decaying with the lapse of time. "The night was senescent." Poe. "With too senescent air." Lowell. 

SENESCHAL:  An officer in the houses of princes and dignitaries, in the Middle Ages, who had the superintendence of feasts and domestic ceremonies; a steward. Sometimes the seneschal had the dispensing of justice, and was given high military commands. Then marshaled feast Served up in hall with sewers and seneschale. Milton. Philip Augustus, by a famous ordinance in 1190, first established royal courts of justice, held by the officers called baitiffs, or seneschals, who acted as the king's lieutenants in his demains. Hallam. 

SENESCHALSHIP:  The office, dignity, or jurisdiction of a seneschal. 

SENGE:  To singe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SENGREEN:  The houseleek. 

SENILE:  Of or pertaining to old age; proceeding from, or characteristic of, old age; affected with the infirmities of old age; as, senile weakness. "Senile maturity of judgment." Boyle. Senile gangrene (Med.), a form of gangrene occuring particularly in old people, and caused usually by insufficient blood supply due to degeneration of the walls of the smaller arteries. 

SENILITY:  The quality or state of being senile; old age. 

SENIORITY:  The quality or state of being senior. 

SENIORIZE:  To exercise authority; to rule; to lord it. [R.] Fairfax. 

SENIORY:  Seniority. [Obs.] Shak. 

SENNA:  The leaves of several leguminous plants of the genus Cassia. (C. acutifolia. C. angustifolia, etc.). They constitute a valuable but nauseous cathartic medicine.  2. (Bot.)  The plants themselves, native to the East, but now cultivated largely in the south of Europe and in the West Indies. Bladder senna. (Bot.) See under Bladder.  -- Wild senna (Bot.), the Cassia Marilandica, growing in the United States, the leaves of which are used medicinally, like those of the officinal senna. 

SENNACHY:  See Seannachie. 

SENNET:  A signal call on a trumpet or cornet for entrance or exit on the stage. [Obs.] 

SENNET:  The barracuda. 

SENNIGHT:  The space of seven nights and days; a week. [Written also se'nnight.] [Archaic.] Shak. Tennyson. 

SENNIT:  A braided cord or fabric formed by plaiting together rope yarns or other small stuff.  2. Plaited straw or palm leaves for making hats. 

SENOCULAR:  Having six eyes. [R.] Derham. 

SENONIAN:  In european geology, a name given to the middle division of the Upper Cretaceous formation.  SENOR; SENHOR Se*ñor", n. Etym: [Sp. Cf. Senior.]  A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or Sir; also, a gentleman.  SENORA; SENHORA Se*ño"ra, n. Etym: [Sp.]  A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady.  SENORITA; SENHORITA Se`ño*ri"ta, n. Etym: [Sp.]  A Spanish title of courtesy given to a young lady; Miss; also, a young lady. 

SENS:  Since. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SENSATE:  To feel or apprehend more or less distinctly through a sense, or the senses; as, to sensate light, or an odor. As those of the one are sensated by the ear, so those of the other are by the eye. R. Hooke.  SENSATE; SENSATED Sen"sate, Sen"sa*ted, a. Etym: [L. sensatus gifted with sense, intelligent, fr. sensus sense. See Sense.]  Felt or apprehended through a sense, or the senses. [R.] Baxter. 

SENSATION:  An impression, or the consciousness of an impression, made upon the central nervous organ, through the medium of a sensory or afferent nerve or one of the organs of sense; a feeling, or state of consciousness, whether agreeable or disagreeable, produced either by an external object (stimulus), or by some change in the internal state of the body. Perception is only a special kind of knowledge, and sensation a special kind of feeling. . . . Knowledge and feeling, perception and sensation, though always coexistent, are always in the inverse ratio of each other. Sir W. Hamilton.  2. A purely spiritual or psychical affection; agreeable or disagreeable feelings occasioned by objects that are not corporeal or material.  3. A state of excited interest or feeling, or that which causes it. The sensation caused by the appearance of that work is still remembered by many. Brougham.  Syn.  -- Perception.  -- Sensation, Perseption. The distinction between these words, when used in mental philosophy, may be thus stated; if I simply smell a rose, I have a sensation; if I refer that smell to the external object which occasioned it, I have a perception. Thus, the former is mere feeling, without the idea of an object; the latter is the mind's apprehension of some external object as occasioning that feeling. "Sensation properly expresses that change in the state of the mind which is produced by an impression upon an organ of sense (of which change we can conceive the mind to be conscious, without any knowledge of external objects). Perception, on the other hand, expresses the knowledge or the intimations we obtain by means of our sensations concerning the qualities of matter, and consequently involves, in every instance, the notion of externality, or outness, which it is necessary to exclude in order to seize the precise import of the word sensation." Fleming. 

SENSATIONALISM:  The doctrine held by Condillac, and by some ascribed to Locke, that our ideas originate solely in sensation, and consist of sensations transformed; sensualism; -- opposed to intuitionalism, and rationalism.  2. The practice or methods of sensational writing or speaking; as, the sensationalism of a novel. 

SENSATIONALIST:  An advocate of, or believer in, philosophical sensationalism.  2. One who practices sensational writing or speaking. 

SENSE:  A faculty, possessed by animals, of perceiving external objects by means of impressions made upon certain organs (sensory or sense organs) of the body, or of perceiving changes in the condition of the body; as, the senses of sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch. See Muscular sense, under Muscular, and Temperature sense, under Temperature. Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep. Shak. What surmounts the reach Of human sense I shall delineate. Milton. The traitor Sense recalls The soaring soul from rest. Keble.  2. Perception by the sensory organs of the body; sensation; sensibility; feeling. In a living creature, though never so great, the sense and the affects of any one part of the body instantly make a transcursion through the whole. Bacon.  3. Perception through the intellect; apprehension; recognition; understanding; discernment; appreciation. This Basilius, having the quick sense of a lover. Sir P. Sidney. High disdain from sense of injured merit. Milton.  4. Sound perception and reasoning; correct judgment; good mental capacity; understanding; also, that which is sound, true, or reasonable; rational meaning. "He speaks sense." Shak. He raves; his words are loose As heaps of sand, and scattering wide from sense. Dryden.  5. That which is felt or is held as a sentiment, view, or opinion; judgment; notion; opinion. I speak my private but impartial sense With freedom. Roscommon. The municipal council of the city had ceased to speak the sense of the citizens. Macaulay.  6. Meaning; import; signification; as, the true sense of words or phrases; the sense of a remark. So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense. Neh. viii. 8. I think 't was in another sense. Shak.  7. Moral perception or appreciation. Some are so hardened in wickedness as to have no sense of the most friendly offices. L' Estrange.  8. (Geom.)  One of two opposite directions in which a line, surface, or volume, may be supposed to be described by the motion of a point, line, or surface. Common sense, according to Sir W. Hamilton: (a) "The complement of those cognitions or convictions which we receive from nature, which all men possess in common, and by which they test the truth of knowledge and the morality of actions." (b) "The faculty of first principles." These two are the philosophical significations. (c) "Such ordinary complement of intelligence, that,if a person be deficient therein, he is accounted mad or foolish." (d) When the substantive is emphasized: "Native practical intelligence, natural prudence, mother wit, tact in behavior, acuteness in the observation of character, in contrast to habits of acquired learning or of speculation." -- Moral sense. See under Moral, (a).  -- The inner, or internal, sense, capacity of the mind to be aware of its own states; consciousness; reflection. "This source of ideas every man has wholly in himself, and though it be not sense, as having nothing to do with external objects, yet it is very like it, and might properly enough be called internal sense." Locke.  -- Sense capsule (Anat.), one of the cartilaginous or bony cavities which inclose, more or less completely, the organs of smell, sight, and hearing.  -- Sense organ (Physiol.), a specially irritable mechanism by which some one natural force or form of energy is enabled to excite sensory nerves; as the eye, ear, an end bulb or tactile corpuscle, etc.  -- Sense organule (Anat.), one of the modified epithelial cells in or near which the fibers of the sensory nerves terminate.  Syn.  -- Understanding; reason.  -- Sense, Understanding, Reason. Some philosophers have given a technical signification to these terms, which may here be stated. Sense is the mind's acting in the direct cognition either of material objects or of its own mental states. In the first case it is called the outer, in the second the inner, sense. Understanding is the logical faculty, i. e., the power of apprehending under general conceptions, or the power of classifying, arranging, and making deductions. Reason is the power of apprehending those first or fundamental truths or principles which are the conditions of all real and scientific knowledge, and which control the mind in all its processes of investigation and deduction. These distinctions are given, not as established, but simply because they often occur in writers of the present day. 

SENSE:  To perceive by the senses; to recognize. [Obs. or Colloq.] Is he sure that objects are not otherwise sensed by others than they are by him Glanvill. 

SENSEFUL:  Full of sense, meaning, or reason; reasonable; judicious. [R.] "Senseful speech." Spenser. "Men, otherwise senseful and ingenious." Norris. 

SENSELESS:  Destitute of, deficient in, or contrary to, sense; without sensibility or feeling; unconscious; stupid; foolish; unwise; unreasonable. You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things. Shak. The ears are senseless that should give us hearing. Shak. The senseless grave feels not your pious sorrows. Rowe. They were a senseless, stupid race. Swift. They would repent this their senseless perverseness when it would be too late. Clarendon. --- Sense"less*ly, adv.  -- Sense"less*ness, n. 

SENSIBILITY:  The quality or state of being sensible, or capable of sensation; capacity to feel or perceive.  2. The capacity of emotion or feeling, as distinguished from the intellect and the will; peculiar susceptibility of impression, pleasurable or painful; delicacy of feeling; quick emotion or sympathy; as, sensibility to pleasure or pain; sensibility to shame or praise; exquisite sensibility; -- often used in the plural. "Sensibilities so fine!" Cowper. The true lawgiver ought to have a heart full of sensibility. Burke. His sensibilities seem rather to have been those of patriotism than of wounded pride. Marshall.  3. Experience of sensation; actual feeling. This adds greatly to my sensibility. Burke.  4. That quality of an instrument which makes it indicate very slight changes of condition; delicacy; as, the sensibility of a balance, or of a thermometer.  Syn.  -- Taste; susceptibility; feeling. See Taste. 

SENSIFACIENT:  Converting into sensation. Huxley. 

SENSIFEROUS:  Exciting sensation; conveying sensation. Huxley. 

SENSIFIC:  Exciting sensation. 

SENSIFICATORY:  Susceptible of, or converting into, sensation; as, the sensificatory part of a nervous system. Huxley. 

SENSIGENOUS:  Causing or exciting sensation. Huxley. 

SENSISM:  Same as Sensualism, 2 & 3. 

SENSIST:  One who, in philosophy, holds to sensism. 

SENSITIVITY:  The quality or state of being sensitive; -- used chiefly in science and the arts; as, the sensitivity of iodized silver. Sensitivity and emotivity have also been used as the scientific term for the capacity of feeling. Hickok. 

SENSITIZE:  To render sensitive, or susceptible of being easily acted on by the actinic rays of the sun; as, sensitized paper or plate. 

SENSITIZER:  An agent that sensitizes. The sensitizer should be poured on the middle of the sheet. Wilis & Clements (The Platinotype). 

SENSITOMETER:  An instrument or apparatus for comparing and grading the sensitiveness of plates, films, etc., as a screen divided into squares of different shades or colors, from which a picture is made on the plate to be tested. 

SENSITORY:  See Sensory. 

SENSIVE:  Having sense or sensibility; sensitive. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

SENSOR:  Sensory; as, the sensor nerves. 

SENSORIAL:  Of or pertaining to the sensorium; as, sensorial faculties, motions, powers. A. Tucker. 

SENSORIUM:  The seat of sensation; the nervous center or centers to which impressions from the external world must be conveyed before they can be perceived; the place where external impressions are localized, and transformed into sensations, prior to being reflected to other parts of the organism; hence, the whole nervous system, when animated, so far as it is susceptible of common or special sensations.  SENSORI-VOLITIONAL Sen*so`ri-vo*li"tion*al, a. (Physiol.)  Concerned both in sensation and volition; -- applied to those nerve fibers which pass to and from the cerebro-spinal axis, and are respectively concerned in sensation and volition. Dunglison. 

SENSORY:  Same as Sensorium. 

SENSORY:  Of or pertaining to the sensorium or sensation; as, sensory impulses; -- especially applied to those nerves and nerve fibers which convey to a nerve center impulses resulting in sensation; also sometimes loosely employed in the sense of afferent, to indicate nerve fibers which convey impressions of any kind to a nerve center. 

SENSUALISM:  The doctrine that all our ideas, or the operations of the understanding, not only originate in sensation, but are transformed sensations, copies or relics of sensations; sensationalism; sensism.  3. (Ethics)  The regarding of the gratification of the senses as the highest good. Krauth-Fleming. 

SENSUALITY:  The quality or state of being sensual; devotedness to the gratification of the bodily appetites; free indulgence in carnal or sensual pleasures; luxuriousness; voluptuousness; lewdness. Those pampered animals That rage in savage sensuality. Shak. They avoid dress, lest they should have affections tainted by any sensuality. Addison. 

SENSUALIZATION:  The act of sensualizing, or the state of being sensualized. 

SENSUALIZE:  To make sensual; to subject to the love of sensual pleasure; to debase by carnal gratifications; to carnalize; as, sensualized by pleasure. Pope. By the neglect of prayer, the thoughts are sensualized. T. H. Skinner. 

SENSUALLY:  In a sensual manner. 

SENSUALNESS:  Sensuality; fleshliness. 

SENSUISM:  Sensualism. 

SENSUOSITY:  The quality or state of being sensuous; sensuousness. [R.] 

SENT:  See Scent, v. & n. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SENT:  obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Send, for sendeth. 

SENT:  imp. & p. p. of Send. 

SENTENCE:  In civil and admiralty law, the judgment of a court pronounced in a cause; in criminal and ecclesiastical courts, a judgment passed on a criminal by a court or judge; condemnation pronounced by a judgical tribunal; doom. In common law, the term is exclusively used to denote the judgment in criminal cases. Received the sentence of the law. Shak.  4. A short saying, usually containing moral instruction; a maxim; an axiom; a saw. Broome.  5. (Gram.)  A combination of words which is complete as expressing a thought, and in writing is marked at the close by a period, or full point. See Proposition, 4.  Note: Sentences are simple or compound. A simple sentence consists of one subject and one finite verb; as, "The Lord reigns." A compound sentence contains two or more subjects and finite verbs, as in this verse: - He fills, he bounds, connects, and equals all. Pope. Dark sentence, a saving not easily explained. A king . . . understanding dark sentences. Dan. vii. 23. 

SENTENCE:  A method of teaching reading by giving first attention to phrases and sentences and later analyzing these into their verbal and alphabetic components; -- contrasted with alphabet and word methods. 

SENTENCER:  One who pronounced a sentence or condemnation. 

SENTENTIALLY:  In a sentential manner. 

SENTENTIARIST:  A sententiary. Barnas Sears (Life of Luther). 

SENTENTIARY:  One who read lectures, or commented, on the Sentences of Peter Lombard, Bishop of Paris (1159-1160), a school divine. R. Henry. 

SENTENTIOSITY:  The quality or state of being sententious. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SENTERY:  A sentry. [Obs.] Milton. 

SENTEUR:  Scent. [Obs.] Holland.  SENTIENCE; SENTIENCY Sen"ti*ence, Sen"ti*en*cy, n. Etym: [See Sentient, Sentence.]  The quality or state of being sentient; esp., the quality or state of having sensation. G. H. Lewes An example of harmonious action between the intelligence and the sentieny of the mind. Earle. 

SENTIENT:  Having a faculty, or faculties, of sensation and perception. Specif. (Physiol.), especially sensitive; as, the sentient extremities of nerves, which terminate in the various organs or tissues. 

SENTIENT:  One who has the faculty of perception; a sentient being. 

SENTIENTLY:  In a sentient or perceptive way. 

SENTIMENTALISM:  The quality of being sentimental; the character or behavior of a sentimentalist; sentimentality. 

SENTIMENTALIST:  One who has, or affects, sentiment or fine feeling. 

SENTIMENTALITY:  The quality or state of being sentimental. 

SENTIMENTALIZE:  To regard in a sentimental manner; as, to sentimentalize a subject. 

SENTIMENTALIZE:  To think or act in a sentimental manner, or like a sentimentalist; to affect exquisite sensibility. C. Kingsley. 

SENTIMENTALLY:  In a sentimental manner. 

SENTINE:  A place for dregs and dirt; a sink; a sewer. [Obs.] Latimer. 

SENTINEL:  A marine crab (Podophthalmus vigil) native of the Indian Ocean, remarkable for the great length of its eyestalks; -- called also sentinel crab. 

SENTISECTION:  Painful vivisection; -- opposed to callisection. B. G. Wilder. 

SENTRY:  A soldier placed on guard; a sentinel.  2. Guard; watch, as by a sentinel. Here toils, and death, and death's half-brother, sleep, Forms terrible to view, their sentry keep. Dryden. Sentry box, a small house or box to cover a sentinel at his post, and shelter him from the weather. 

SENZA:  Without; as, senza stromenti, without instruments. 

SEOR:  A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or Sir; also, a gentleman. 

SEORA:  A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady. 

SEORITA:  A Spanish title of courtesy given to a young lady; Miss; also, a young lady. 

SEPAL:  A leaf or division of the calyx.  Note: When the calyx consists of but one part, it is said to be monosepalous; when of two parts, it is said to be disepalous; when of a variable and indefinite number of parts, it is said to be polysepalous; when of several parts united, it is properly called gamosepalous. 

SEPALED:  Having one or more sepals. 

SEPALINE:  Relating to, or having the nature of, sepals. 

SEPALODY:  The metamorphosis of other floral organs into sepals or sepaloid bodies. 

SEPALOID:  Like a sepal, or a division of a calyx. 

SEPALOUS:  Having, or relating to, sepals; -- used mostly in composition. See under Sepal. 

SEPARABILITY:  Quality of being separable or divisible; divisibility; separableness. 

SEPARABLE:  Capable of being separated, disjoined, disunited, or divided; as, the separable parts of plants; qualities not separable from the substance in which they exist.  -- Sep"a*ra*ble*ness, n.  -- Sep"a*ra*bly, adv. Trials permit me not to doubt of the separableness of a yellow tincture from gold. Boyle. 

SEPARATE:  To part; to become disunited; to be disconnected; to withdraw from one another; as, the family separated. 

SEPARATICAL:  Of or pertaining to separatism in religion; schismatical. [R.] Dr. T. Dwight. 

SEPARATING:  Designed or employed to separate. Separating funnel (Chem.), a funnel, often globe-shaped, provided with a stopcock for the separate drawing off of immiscible liquids of different specific gravities. 

SEPARATION:  The act of separating, or the state of being separated, or separate. Specifically: (a) Chemical analysis. (b) Divorce. (c) (Steam Boilers) The operation of removing water from steam. Judicial separation (Law), a form of divorce; a separation of man and wife which has the effect of making each a single person for all legal purposes but without ability to contract a new marriage. Mozley & W. 

SEPARATISM:  The character or act of a separatist; disposition to withdraw from a church; the practice of so withdrawing. 

SEPARATIST:  One who withdraws or separates himself; especially, one who withdraws from a church to which he has belonged; a seceder from an established church; a dissenter; a nonconformist; a schismatic; a sectary. Heavy fines on divines who should preach in any meeting of separatist . Macaulay. 

SEPARATISTIC:  Of or pertaining to separatists; characterizing separatists; schismatical. 

SEPARATIVE:  Causing, or being to cause, separation. "Separative virtue of extreme cold." Boyle. 

SEPARATOR:  One who, or that which, separates. Specifically: (a) (Steam Boilers) A device for depriving steam of particles of water mixed with it. (b) (Mining) An apparatus for sorting pulverized ores into grades, or separating them from gangue. (c) (Weaving)  An instrument used for spreading apart the threads of the warp in the loom, etc. 

SEPARATORY:  Separative. Cheyne. 

SEPARATORY:  An apparatus used in separating, as a separating funnel.  2. (Surg.)  A surgical instrument for separating the pericranium from the cranium. [Obs.] 

SEPARATRIX:  The decimal point; the dot placed at the left of a decimal fraction, to separate it from the whole number which it follows. The term is sometimes also applied to other marks of separation. 

SEPAWN:  See Supawn. [Local, U.S.] 

SEPELIBLE:  Admitting of burial. [Obs.] Bailey. 

SEPELITION:  Burial. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SEPHARDIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Jews (the Sephardim, also called Spanish or Portuguese Jews) descended from Jewish families driven from Spain by the Inquisition. 

SEPHARDIM:  Jews who are descendants of the former Jews of Spain and Portugal. They are as a rule darker than the northern Jews, and have more delicate features. 

SEPHEN:  A large sting ray of the genus Trygon, especially T. sephen of the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea. The skin is an article of commerce. 

SEPIA:  Of a dark brown color, with a little red in its composition; also, made of, or done in, sepia. 

SEPIC:  Of or pertaining to sepia; done in sepia; as, a sepic drawing. 

SEPIDACEOUS:  Like or pertaining to the cuttlefishes of the genus Sepia. 

SEPIMENT:  Something that separates; a hedge; a fence. [R.] Bailey. 

SEPIOLITE:  Meerschaum. See Meerschaum. 

SEPIOSTARE:  The bone or shell of cuttlefish. See Illust. under Cuttlefish. 

SEPON:  See Supawn. [Local, U.S.] 

SEPOSE:  To set apart. [Obs.] Donne. 

SEPOSIT:  To set aside; to give up. [Obs.] 

SEPOSITION:  The act of setting aside, or of giving up. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

SEPOY:  A native of India employed as a soldier in the service of a European power, esp. of Great Britain; an Oriental soldier disciplined in the European manner. 

SEPPUKU:  Same as Hara-kiri. Seppuku, or hara-kiri, also came into vogue. W. E. Griffis. 

SEPSIN:  A soluble poison (ptomaine) present in putrid blood. It is also formed in the putrefaction of proteid matter in general. 

SEPSIS:  The poisoning of the system by the introduction of putrescent material into the blood. 

SEPT:  A clan, tribe, or family, proceeding from a common progenitor; -- used especially of the ancient clans in Ireland. The chief, struck by the illustration, asked at once to be baptized, and all his sept followed his example. S. Lover. 

SEPTAEMIA:  Septicæmia. 

SEPTAL:  Of or pertaining to a septum or septa, as of a coral or a shell. 

SEPTANE:  See Heptane. [R.] 

SEPTANGLE:  A figure which has seven angles; a heptagon. [R.] 

SEPTANGULAR:  Heptagonal. 

SEPTARIUM:  A flattened concretionary nodule, usually of limestone, intersected within by cracks which are often filled with calcite, barite, or other minerals. 

SEPTATE:  Divided by partition or partitions; having septa; as, a septate pod or shell. 

SEPTEMBER:  The ninth month of the year, containing thurty days. 

SEPTEMBERER:  A Setembrist. Carlyle. 

SEPTEMBRIST:  An agent in the massacres in Paris, committed in patriotic frenzy, on the 22d of September, 1792. 

SEPTEMFLUOUS:  Flowing sevenfold; divided into seven streams or currents. [R.] Fuller. 

SEPTEMPARTITE:  Divided nearly to the base into seven parts; as, a septempartite leaf. 

SEPTEMTRIOUN:  Septentrion. [Obs.] 

SEPTEMVIR:  One of a board of seven men associated in some office. 

SEPTEMVIRATE:  The office of septemvir; a government by septimvirs. 

SEPTENARY:  The number seven. [R.] Holinshed. 

SEPTENATE:  Having parts in sevens; heptamerous. 

SEPTENNATE:  A period of seven years; as, the septennate during which the President of the French Republic holds office. 

SEPTENNIALLY:  Once in seven years. 

SEPTENTRIAL:  Septentrional. Drayton. 

SEPTENTRIO:  The constellation Ursa Major. 

SEPTENTRION:  The north or northern regions. Shak. Both East West, South and Septentrioun. Chaucer.  SEPTENTRION; SEPTENTRIONAL Sep*ten"tri*on, Sep*ten"tri*on*al, a. Etym: [L. septentrionalis: cf. F. septentrional.]  Of or pertaining to the north; northern. "From cold septentrion blasts." Milton. 

SEPTENTRIONALITY:  Northerliness. 

SEPTENTRIONALLY:  Northerly. 

SEPTENTRIONATE:  To tend or point toward the north; to north. Sir T. Browne.  SEPTET; SEPTETTE Sep*tet", Sep*tette", n. Etym: [From L. septem seven, like duet, from L. duo.]  1. A set of seven persons or objects; as, a septet of singers.  2. (Mus.)  A musical composition for seven instruments or seven voices; -- called also septuor. 

SEPTFOIL:  A European herb, the tormentil. See Tormentil.  2. (Arch.)  An ornamental foliation having seven lobes. Cf. Cinquefoil, Quarterfoil, and Trefoil.  3. (Eccl.Art.)  A typical figure, consisting of seven equal segments of a circle, used to denote the gifts of the Holy Chost, the seven sacraments as recognized by the Roman Catholic Church, etc. [R.]  SEPTI- Sep"ti-, Etym: [L. septem seven.]  A combining form meaning seven; as, septifolious, seven-leaved; septi-lateral, seven-sided. 

SEPTIC:  Of the seventh degree or order.  -- n. (Alg.)  A quantic of the seventh degree.  SEPTIC; SEPTICAL Sep"tic, Sep"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. septicus, Gr. septique.]  Having power to promote putrefaction. 

SEPTIC:  A substance that promotes putrefaction. 

SEPTICAEMIA:  A poisoned condition of the blood produced by the absorption into it of septic or putrescent material; blood poisoning. It is marked by chills, fever, prostration, and inflammation of the different serous membranes and of the lungs, kidneys, and other organs. 

SEPTICALLY:  In a septic manner; in a manner tending to promote putrefaction. 

SEPTICIDAL:  Dividing the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in which a pod splits through the partitions and is divided into its component carpels. 

SEPTICITY:  Tendency to putrefaction; septic quality. 

SEPTIFARIOUS:  Turned in seven different ways. 

SEPTIFEROUS:  Bearing a partition; -- said of the valves of a capsule. 

SEPTIFEROUS:  Conveying putrid poison; as, the virulence of septiferous matter. 

SEPTIFLUOUS:  Flowing in seven streams; septemfluous. 

SEPTIFOLIOUS:  Having seven leaves. 

SEPTIFORM:  Having the form of a septum. 

SEPTIFRAGAL:  Breaking from the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in which the valves of a pod break away from the partitions, and these remain attached to the common axis. 

SEPTILATERAL:  Having seven sides; as, a septilateral figure. 

SEPTILLION:  According to the French method of numeration (which is followed also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-four ciphers annexed. According to the English method, the number expressed by a unit with forty-two ciphers annexed. See Numeration. 

SEPTIMOLE:  A group of seven notes to be played in the time of four or six. 

SEPTINSULAR:  Consisting of seven islands; as, the septinsular republic of the Ionian Isles. 

SEPTISYLLABLE:  A word of seven syllables. 

SEPTOIC:  See Heptoic. [R.] 

SEPTOMAXILLARY:  Of or pertaining to the nasal septum and the maxilla; situated in the region of these parts.  -- n.  A small bone between the nasal septum and the maxilla in many reptiles and amphibians. 

SEPTUAGENARIAN:  A person who is seventy years of age; a septuagenary. 

SEPTUAGENARY:  Consisting of seventy; also, seventy years old.  -- n.  A septuagenarian. 

SEPTUAGESIMA:  The third Sunday before Lent; -- so called because it is about seventy days before Easter. 

SEPTUAGESIMAL:  Consisting of seventy days, years, etc.; reckoned by seventies. Our abridged and septuagesimal age. Sir T. Browne. 

SEPTUAGINT:  A Greek version of the Old Testament; -- so called because it was believed to be the work of seventy (or rather of seventy-two) translators.  Note: The causes which produced it [the Septuagint], the number and names of the translators, the times at which different portions were translated, are all uncertain. The only point in which all agree is that Alexandria was the birthplace of the version. On one other point there is a near agreement, namely, as to time, that the version was made, or at least commenced, in the time of the early Ptolemies, in the first half of the third century b.c. Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.) Septuagint chronology, the chronology founded upon the dates of the Septuagint, which makes 1500 years more from the creation to Abraham than the Hebrew Bible. 

SEPTUARY:  Something composed of seven; a week. [R.] Ash. 

SEPTULATE:  Having imperfect or spurious septa. 

SEPTULUM:  A little septum; a division between small cavities or parts. 

SEPTUM:  A partition that separates the cells of a fruit.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) One of the radial calcareous plates of a coral. (b) One of the transverse partitions dividing the shell of a mollusk, or of a rhizopod, into several chambers. See Illust. under Nautilus. (c) One of the transverse partitions dividing the body cavity of an annelid. 

SEPTUOR:  A septet. 

SEPTUPLE:  Seven times as much; multiplied by seven; sevenfold. 

SEPTUPLE:  To multiply by seven; to make sevenfold. Sir J. Herschel.  SEPULCHER; SEPULCHRE Sep"ul*cher, Sep"ul*chre, n. Etym: [OE. sepulcre, OF. sepulcre, F. sépulcre, fr. L. sepulcrum, sepulchrum, fr. sepelire to bury.]  The place in which the dead body of a human being is interred, or a place set apart for that purpose; a grave; a tomb. The stony entrance of this sepulcher. Shak. The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulcher. John xx. 1. A whited sepulcher. Fig.: Any person who is fair outwardly but unclean or vile within. See Matt. xxiii.27.  SEPULCHER; SEPULCHRE Sep"ul*cher, Sep"ul*chre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sepulchered or Sepulchred (; p. pr. & vb. n. Sepulchering or Sepulchring (.]  To bury; to inter; to entomb; as, obscurely sepulchered. And so sepulchered in such pomp dost lie That kings for such a tomb would wish to die. Milton. 

SEQUACIOUSNESS:  Quality of being sequacious. 

SEQUACITY:  Quality or state of being sequacious; sequaciousness. Bacon. 

SEQUELA:  One who, or that which, follows. Specifically: (a) An adherent, or a band or sect of adherents. "Coleridge and his sequela." G. P. Marsh. (b) That which follows as the logical result of reasoning; inference; conclusion; suggestion. Sequelæ, or thoughts suggested by the preceding aphorisms. Coleridge. (c) (Med.)  A morbid phenomenon left as the result of a disease; a disease resulting from another. 

SEQUENCE:  Simple succession, or the coming after in time, without asserting or implying causative energy; as, the reactions of chemical agents may be conceived as merely invariable sequences.  4. (Mus.) (a) Any succession of chords (or harmonic phrase) rising or falling by the regular diatonic degrees in the same scale; a succession of similar harmonic steps. (b) A melodic phrase or passage successively repeated one tone higher; a rosalia.  5. (R.C.Ch.)  A hymn introduced in the Mass on certain festival days, and recited or sung immediately before the gospel, and after the gradual or introit, whence the name. Bp. Fitzpatrick. Originally the sequence was called a Prose, because its early form was rhythmical prose. Shipley.  6. (Card Playing) (a) (Whist) Three or more cards of the same suit in immediately consecutive order of value; as, ace, king, and queen; or knave, ten, nine, and eight. (b) (Poker) All five cards, of a hand, in consecutive order as to value, but not necessarily of the same suit; when of one suit, it is called a sequence flush. 

SEQUENTIAL:  Succeeding or following in order.  -- Se*quen"tial*ly, adv. 

SEQUESTER:  To separate from the owner for a time; to take from parties in controversy and put into the possession of an indifferent person; to seize or take possession of, as property belonging to another, and hold it till the profits have paid the demand for which it is taken, or till the owner has performed the decree of court, or clears himself of contempt; in international law, to confiscate. Formerly the goods of a defendant in chancery were, in the last resort, sequestered and detained to enforce the decrees of the court. And now the profits of a benefice are sequestered to pay the debts of ecclesiastics. Blackstone.  2. To cause (one) to submit to the process of sequestration; to deprive (one) of one's estate, property, etc. It was his tailor and his cook, his fine fashions and his French ragouts, which sequestered him. South.  3. To set apart; to put aside; to remove; to separate from other things. I had wholly sequestered my civil affairss. Bacon.  4. To cause to retire or withdraw into obscurity; to seclude; to withdraw; -- often used reflexively. When men most sequester themselves from action. Hooker. A love and desire to sequester a man's self for a higher conversation. Bacon. 

SEQUESTER:  To renounce (as a widow may) any concern with the estate of her husband. 

SEQUESTER:  A person with whom two or more contending parties deposit the subject matter of the controversy; one who mediates between two parties; a mediator; an umpire or referee. Bouvier.  3. (Med.)  Same as Sequestrum. 

SEQUESTERED:  Retired; secluded. "Sequestered scenes." Cowper. Along the cool, sequestered vale of life. Gray. 

SEQUESTRABLE:  Capable of being sequestered; subject or liable to sequestration. 

SEQUESTRAL:  Of or pertaining to a sequestrum. Quian. 

SEQUESTRATE:  To sequester. 

SEQUESTRUM:  A portion of dead bone which becomes separated from the sound portion, as in necrosis. 

SEQUIN:  An old gold coin of Italy and Turkey. It was first struck at Venice about the end of the 13th century, and afterward in the other Italian cities, and by the Levant trade was introduced into Turkey. It is worth about 9s. 3d. sterling, or about $2.25. The different kinds vary somewhat in value. [Written also chequin, and zequin.] 

SEQUOIA:  A genus of coniferous trees, consisting of two species, Sequoia Washingtoniana, syn. S. gigantea, the "big tree" of California, and S. sempervirens, the redwood, both of which attain an immense height. 

SEQUOIENE:  A hydrocarbon (C13H10) obtained in white fluorescent crystals, in the distillation products of the needles of the California "big tree" (Sequoia gigantea). 

SERAC:  A pinnacle of ice among the crevasses of a glacier; also, one of the blocks into which a glacier breaks on a steep grade. 

SERAI:  A palace; a seraglio; also, in the East, a place for the accommodation of travelers; a caravansary, or rest house. 

SERALBUMEN:  Serum albumin. 

SERANG:  The boatswain of a Lascar or East Ondian crew. 

SERAPE:  A blanket or shawl worn as an outer garment by the Spanish Americans, as in Mexico. 

SERAPH:  One of an order of celestial beings, each having three pairs of wings. In ecclesiastical art and in poetry, a seraph is represented as one of a class of angels. Isa. vi. 2. As full, as perfect, in vile man that mourns, As the rapt seraph that adores and burns. Pope. Seraph moth (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of geometrid moths of the genus Lobophora, having the hind wings deeply bilobed, so that they seem to have six wings.  SERAPHIC; SERAPHICAL Se*raph"ic, Se*raph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. séraphique.]  Of or pertaining to a seraph; becoming, or suitable to, a seraph; angelic; sublime; pure; refined. "Seraphic arms and trophies." Milton. "Seraphical fervor." Jer. Taylor.  -- Se*raph"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Se*raph"ic*al*ness, n. 

SERAPHICISM:  The character, quality, or state of a seraph; seraphicalness. [R.] Cudworth. 

SERAPHIM:  The Hebrew plural of Seraph. Cf. Cherubim.  Note: The double plural form seraphims is sometimes used, as in the King James version of the Bible, Isa. vi. 2 and 6. 

SERAPHINA:  A seraphine. 

SERAPHINE:  A wind instrument whose sounding parts are reeds, consisting of a thin tongue of brass playing freely through a slot in a plate. It has a case, like a piano, and is played by means of a similar keybord, the bellows being worked by the foot. The melodeon is a portable variety of this instrument. 

SERAPIS:  An Egyptian deity, at first a symbol of the Nile, and so of fertility; later, one of the divinities of the lower world. His worship was introduced into Greece and Rome. 

SERASKIER:  A general or commander of land forces in the Turkish empire; especially, the commander-in-chief of minister of war. 

SERASKIERATE:  The office or authority of a seraskier. 

SERBONIAN:  Relating to the lake of Serbonis in Egypt, which by reason of the sand blowing into it had a deceptive appearance of being solid land, but was a bog. A gulf profound as that Serbonian bog . . . Where armies whole have sunk. Milton. 

SERE:  Dry; withered. Same as Sear. But with its sound it shook the sails That were so thin and sere. Coleridge. 

SERE:  Claw; talon. [Obs.] Chapman. 

SEREIN:  A mist, or very fine rain, which sometimes falls from a clear sky a few moments after sunset. Tyndall. 

SERENADE:  To entertain with a serenade. 

SERENADE:  To perform a serenade. 

SERENADER:  One who serenades.  SERENATA; SERENATE Ser`e*na"ta, Ser"e*nate, n. Etym: [It. serenata. See Serenade.] (Mus.)  A piece of vocal music, especially one on an amoreus subject; a serenade. Or serenate, which the starved lover sings To his pround fair. Milton.  Note: The name serenata was given by Italian composers in the time of Handel, and by Handel himself, to a cantata of a pastoreal of dramatic character, to a secular ode, etc.; also by Mozart and others to an orchectral composition, in several movements, midway between the suite of an earlier period and the modern symphony. Grove. 

SERENE:  Evening air; night chill. [Obs.] "Some serene blast me." B. Jonson. 

SERENE:  To make serene. Heaven and earth, as if contending, vie To raise his being, and serene his soul. Thomson. 

SERENENESS:  Serenity. Feltham. 

SERENITUDE:  Serenity. [Obs.] 

SERF:  A servant or slave employed in husbandry, and in some countries attached to the soil and transferred with it, as formerly in Russia. In England, at least from the reign of Henry II, one only, and that the inferior species [of villeins], existed . . . But by the customs of France and Germany, persons in this abject state seem to have been called serfs, and distinguished from villeins, who were only bound to fixed payments and duties in respect of their lord, though, as it seems, without any legal redress if injured by him. Hallam.  Syn.  -- Serf, Slave. A slave is the absolute property of his master, and may be sold in any way. A serf, according to the strict sense of the term, is one bound to work on a certain estate, and thus attached to the soil, and sold with it into the service of whoever purchases the land.  SERFAGE; SERFDOM Serf"age, Serf"dom, n.  The state or condition of a serf.  SERFHOOD; SERFISM Serf"hood, Serf"ism (, n.  Serfage. 

SERGE:  A woolen twilled stuff, much used as material for clothing for both sexes. Silk serge, a twilled silk fabric used mostly by tailors for lining parts of gentlemen's coats. 

SERGE:  A large wax candle used in the ceremonies of various churches. 

SERGEANCY:  The office of a sergeant; sergeantship. [Written also serjeancy.] 

SERGEANT:  A lawyer of the highest rank, answering to the doctor of the civil law; -- called also serjeant at law. [Eng.] Blackstone.  4. A title sometimes given to the servants of the sovereign; as, sergeant surgeon, that is, a servant, or attendant, surgeon. [Eng.]  5. (Zoöl.)  The cobia. Drill sergeant. (Mil.) See under Drill.  -- Sergeant-at-arms, an officer of a legislative body, or of a deliberative or judicial assembly, who executes commands in preserving order and arresting offenders. See Sergeant, 1.  -- Sergeant major. (a) (Mil.) See the Note under def. 2, above. (b) (Zoöl.) The cow pilot. 

SERGEANTCY:  Same as Sergeancy. 

SERGEANTRY:  See Sergeanty. [R.] [Written also serjeantry.] 

SERGEANTSHIP:  The office of sergeant. 

SERGEANTY:  Tenure of lands of the crown by an honorary kind of service not due to any lord, but to the king only. [Written also serjeanty.] Grand sergeanty, a particular kind of tenure by which the tenant was bound to do some special honorary service to the king in person, as to carry his banner, his sword, or the like. Tomlins. Cowell. Blackstone.  -- Petit sergeanty. See under Petit. 

SERIAL:  Of or pertaining to rows. Gray. Serial homology. (Biol.) See under Homology.  -- Serial symmetry. (Biol.) See under Symmetry. 

SERIAL:  A publication appearing in a series or succession of part; a tale, or other writing, published in successive numbers of a periodical. 

SERIALITY:  The quality or state of succession in a series; sequence. H. Spenser. 

SERIALLY:  In a series, or regular order; in a serial manner; as, arranged serially; published serially. 

SERIATE:  Arranged in a series or succession; pertaining to a series.  -- Se"ri*ate*ly, adv. 

SERIATIM:  In regular order; one after the other; severally. 

SERIATION:  Arrangement or position in a series. 

SERICEOUS:  Covered with very soft hairs pressed close to the surface; as, a sericeous leaf.  3. (Zoöl.)  Having a silklike luster, usually due to fine, close hairs. 

SERICIN:  A gelatinous nitrogenous material extracted from crude silk and other similar fiber by boiling water; -- called also silk gelatin. 

SERICITE:  A kind of muscovite occuring in silky scales having a fibrous structure. It is characteristic of sericite schist. 

SERICTERIUM:  A silk gland, as in the silkworms. 

SERICULTURE:  The raising of silkworms. 

SERIE:  Series. [Obs.] 

SERIEMA:  A large South American bird (Dicholophus, or Cariama cristata) related to the cranes. It is often domesticated. Called also cariama. 

SERIES:  Any comprehensive group of animals or plants including several subordinate related groups.  Note: Sometimes a series includes several classes; sometimes only orders or families; in other cases only species.  3. (Math.)  An indefinite number of terms succeeding one another, each of which is derived from one or more of the preceding by a fixed law, called the law of the series; as, an arithmetical series; a geometrical series.  SERIES DYNAMO Series dynamo. (Elec.)  (a) A series-wound dynamo.  (b) A dynamo running in series with another or others.  SERIES MOTOR Series motor. (Elec.)  (a) A series-wound motor.  (b) A motor capable of being used in a series circuit.  SERIES TURNS Series turns. (Elec.)  The turns in a series circuit.  SERIES WINDING Series winding. (Elec.)  A winding in which the armature coil and the field-magnet coil are in series with the external circuits; -- opposed to shunt winding. --Se"ries-wound`, a. 

SERIGRAPH:  An autographic device to test the strength of raw silk. 

SERIN:  A European finch (Serinus hortulanus) closely related to the canary. 

SERINE:  A white crystalline nitrogenous substance obtained by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on silk gelatin.  SERIO-COMIC; SERIO-COMICAL Se`ri*o-com"ic, Se`ri*o-com"ic*al, a.  Having a mixture of seriousness and sport; serious and comical. 

SERIPH:  See Ceriph.  SERJEANT; SERJEANTCY Ser"jeant, Ser"jeant*cy, etc.  See Sergeant, Sergeantcy, etc. Serjeant-at-arms. See Sergeant- at-arms, under Sergeant. 

SERMOCINATION:  The making of speeches or sermons; sermonizing. [Obs.] Peacham. 

SERMOCINATOR:  One who makes sermons or speeches. [Obs.] Howell. 

SERMON:  To speak; to discourse; to compose or deliver a sermon. [Obs.] Holinshed. What needeth it to sermon of it more Chaucer. 

SERMONEER:  A sermonizer. B. Jonson. 

SERMONER:  A preacher; a sermonizer. [Derogative or Jocose.] Thackeray. 

SERMONET:  A short sermon. [Written also sermonette.]  SERMONIC; SERMONICAL Ser*mon"ic, Ser*mon"ic*al, a.  Like, or appropriate to, a sermon; grave and didactic. [R.] "Conversation . . . satirical or sermonic." Prof. Wilson. "Sermonical style." V. Knox. 

SERMONING:  The act of discoursing; discourse; instruction; preaching. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SERMONISH:  Resembling a sermon. [R.] 

SERMONIST:  See Sermonizer. 

SERMONIZE:  To preach or discourse to; to affect or influence by means of a sermon or of sermons. [R.] Which of us shall sing or sermonize the other fast asleep Landor. 

SERMONIZER:  One who sermonizes. 

SEROLIN:  Same as Ceroon.  Note: This word as expressing a quantity or weight has no definite signification. McElrath. 

SEROSE:  Serous. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

SEROSITY:  A thin watery animal fluid, as synovial fluid and pericardial fluid. 

SEROTINE:  The European long-eared bat (Vesperugo serotinus). 

SEROTINOUS:  Appearing or blossoming later in the season than is customary with allied species. 

SEROUS:  The thar. 

SERPENS:  A constellation represented as a serpent held by Serpentarius. 

SERPENT:  Any reptile of the order Ophidia; a snake, especially a large snake. See Illust. under Ophidia.  Note: The serpents are mostly long and slender, and move partly by bending the body into undulations or folds and pressing them against objects, and partly by using the free edges of their ventral scales to cling to rough surfaces. Many species glide swiftly over the ground, some burrow in the earth, others live in trees. A few are entirely aquatic, and swim rapidly. See Ophidia, and Fang.  2. Fig.: A subtle, treacherous, malicious person.  3. A species of firework having a serpentine motion as it passess through the air or along the ground.  4. (Astron.)  The constellation Serpens.  5. (Mus.)  A bass wind instrument, of a loud and coarse tone, formerly much used in military bands, and sometimes introduced into the orchestra; -- so called from its form. Pharaoh's serpent (Chem.), mercuric sulphocyanate, a combustible white substance which in burning gives off a poisonous vapor and leaves a peculiar brown voluminous residue which is expelled in a serpentine from. It is employed as a scientific toy.  -- Serpent cucumber (Bot.), the long, slender, serpentine fruit of the cucurbitaceous plant Trichosanthes colubrina; also, the plant itself.  -- Serpent eage (Zoöl.), any one of several species of raptorial birds of the genera Circaëtus and Spilornis, which prey on serpents. They inhabit Africa, Southern Europe, and India. The European serpent eagle is Circaëtus Gallicus.  -- Serpent eater. (Zoöl.) (a) The secretary bird. (b) An Asiatic antelope; the markhoor.  -- Serpent fish (Zoöl.), a fish (Cepola rubescens) with a long, thin, compressed body, and a band of red running lengthwise.  -- Serpent star (Zoöl.), an ophiuran; a brittle star.  -- Serpent's tongue (Paleon.), the fossil tooth of a shark; -- so called from its resemblance to a tongue with its root.  -- Serpent withe (Bot.), a West Indian climbing plant (Aristolochia odoratissima).  -- Tree serpent (Zoöl.), any species of African serpents belonging to the family Dendrophidæ. 

SERPENT:  To wind like a serpent; to crook about; to meander. [R.] "The serpenting of the Thames." Evelyn. 

SERPENT:  To wind; to encircle. [R.] Evelyn. 

SERPENTARIA:  The fibrous aromatic root of the Virginia snakeroot (Aristolochia Serpentaria). 

SERPENTARIUS:  A constellation on the equator, lying between Scorpio and Hercules; -- called also Ophiuchus. 

SERPENTIFORM:  Having the form of a serpent. 

SERPENTIGENOUS:  Bred of a serpent. 

SERPENTINE:  Resembling a serpent; having the shape or qualities of a serpent; subtle; winding or turning one way and the other, like a moving serpent; anfractuous; meandering; sinuous; zigzag; as, serpentine braid. Thy shape Like his, and color serpentine. Milton. 

SERPENTINE:  A mineral or rock consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of magnesia. It is usually of an obscure green color, often with a spotted or mottled appearance resembling a serpent's skin. Precious, or noble, serpentine is translucent and of a rich oil-green color.  Note: Serpentine has been largely produced by the alteration of other minerals, especially of chrysolite.  2. (Ordnance)  A kind of ancient cannon. 

SERPENTINE:  To serpentize. [R.] Lyttleton. 

SERPENTINELY:  In a serpentine manner. 

SERPENTINIAN:  See 2d Ophite. 

SERPENTINIZE:  To convert (a magnesian silicate) into serpentine.  -- Ser`pen*tin`i*za"tion, n. 

SERPENTINOUS:  Relating to, or like, serpentine; as, a rock serpentinous in character. 

SERPENTIZE:  To turn or bend like a serpent, first in one direction and then in the opposite; to meander; to wind; to serpentine. [R.] The river runs before the door, and serpentizes more than you can conceive. Walpole. 

SERPENTRY:  Having a forked tongue, like a serpent. 

SERPET:  A basket. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

SERPETTE:  A pruning knife with a curved blade. Knight. 

SERPIGINOUS:  Creeping; -- said of lesions which heal over one portion while continuing to advance at another. 

SERPIGO:  A dry, scaly eruption on the skin; especially, a ringworm. 

SERPOLET:  Wild thyme. 

SERPULA:  Any one of numerous species of tubicolous annelids of the genus Serpula and allied genera of the family Serpulidæ. They secrete a calcareous tube, which is usually irregularly contorted, but is sometimes spirally coiled. The worm has a wreath of plumelike and often bright-colored gills around its head, and usually an operculum to close the aperture of its tube when it retracts.  SERPULIAN; SERPULIDAN Ser*pu"li*an, Ser*pu"li*dan, n. (Zoöl.)  A serpula. 

SERPULITE:  A fossil serpula shell. 

SERR:  To crowd, press, or drive together. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SERRANOID:  Any fish of the family Serranidæ, which includes the striped bass, the black sea bass, and many other food fishes.  -- a. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Serranidæ.  SERRATE; SERRATED Ser"rate, Ser"ra*ted, a. Etym: [L. serratus, fr. serra a saw; perhaps akin to secare to cut, E. saw a cutting instrument. Cf. Sierra.]  1. Notched on the edge, like a saw.  2. (Bot.)  Beset with teeth pointing forwards or upwards; as, serrate leaves. Doubly serrate, having small serratures upon the large ones, as the leaves of the elm.  -- Serrate-ciliate, having fine hairs, like the eyelashes, on the serratures; -- said of a leaf.  -- Serrate-dentate, having the serratures toothed. 

SERRATIROSTRAL:  Having a toothed bill, like that of a toucan. 

SERRATOR:  The ivory gull (Larus eburneus). 

SERRICATED:  Covered with fine silky down. 

SERRICORN:  Having serrated antenn 

SERRICORN:  Any one of a numerous tribe of beetles (Serricornia). The joints of the antennæ are prominent, thus producing a serrate appearance. See Illust. under Antenna. 

SERRIED:  Crowded; compact; dense; pressed together. Nor seemed it to relax their serried files. Milton. 

SERRIFERA:  A division of Hymenoptera comprising the sawflies. 

SERRIROSTRES:  Same as Lamellirostres. 

SERROUS:  Like the teeth off a saw; jagged. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SERRULA:  The red-breasted merganser.  SERRULATE; SERRULATED Ser"rulate, Ser"ru*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. serrula a lttle saw, dim. of serra a saw.]  Finely serrate; having very minute teeth. 

SERRY:  To crowd; to press together.  Note: [Now perhaps only in the form serried, p. p. or a.] 

SERTULARIA:  A genus of delicate branching hydroids having small sessile hydrothecæ along the sides of the branches. 

SERTULARIAN:  Any species of Sertularia, or of Sertularidæ, a family of hydroids having branched chitinous stems and simple sessile hydrothecæ. Also used adjectively. 

SERUM:  The treatment of disease by the injection of blood serum from immune animals. 

SERVABLE:  Capable of being preserved. [R.] 

SERVAGE:  Serfage; slavery; servitude. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SERVAL:  An African wild cat (Felis serval) of moderate size. It has rather long legs and a tail of moderate length. Its color is tawny, with black spots on the body and rings of black on the tail. 

SERVALINE:  Related to, or resembling, the serval. 

SERVANT:  To subject. [Obs.] Shak. 

SERVANTESS:  A maidservant. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

SERVANTRY:  A body of servants; servants, collectively. [R.] 

SERVE:  To lead off in delivering (the ball).  15. (Naut.)  To wind spun yarn, or the like, tightly around (a rope or cable, etc.) so as to protect it from chafing or from the weather. See under Serving. To serve an attachment or a writ of attachment (Law), to levy it on the person or goods by seizure, or to seize.  -- To serve an execution (Law), to levy it on a lands, goods, or person, by seizure or taking possession.  -- To serve an office, to discharge a public duty.  -- To serve a process (Law), in general, to read it, so as to give due notice to the party concerned, or to leave an attested copy with him or his attorney, or his usual place of abode.  -- To serve a warrant, to read it, and seize the person against whom it is issued.  -- To serve a writ (Law), to read it to the defendant, or to leave an attested copy at his usual place of abode.  -- To serve one out, to retaliate upon; to requite. "I'll serve you out for this." C. Kingsley.  -- To serve one right, to treat, or cause to befall one, according to his deserts; -- used commonly of ill deserts; as, it serves the scoundrel right; -- To serve one's self of, to avail one's self of; to make use of. [A Gallicism] I will serve myself of this concession. Chillingworth. -- To serve out, to distribute; as, to serve out rations.  -- To serve the time or the hour, to regulate one's actions by the requirements of the time instead of by one's duty; to be a timeserver. [Obs.] They think herein we serve the time, because thereby we either hold or seek preferment. Hooker.  Syn.  -- To obey; minister to; subserve; promote; aid; help; assist; benefit; succor. 

SERVE:  To lead off in delivering the ball. 

SERVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Servia, a kingdom of Southern Europe.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Servia.  SERVICE; SERVICE Serv"ice, n., or Serv"ice. Etym: [Properly, the tree which bears serve, OE. serves, pl., service berries, AS. syrfe service tree; akin to L. sorbus.] (Bot.)  A name given to several trees and shrubs of the genus Pyrus, as Pyrus domestica and P. torminalis of Europe, the various species of mountain ash or rowan tree, and the American shad bush (see Shad bush, under Shad). They have clusters of small, edible, applelike berries. Service berry (Bot.), the fruit of any kind of service tree. In British America the name is especially applied to that of the several species or varieties of the shad bush (Amelanchier.) 

SERVICE:  The act of bringing to notice, either actually or constructively, in such manner as is prescribed by law; as, the service of a subpoena or an attachment.  10. (Naut.)  The materials used for serving a rope, etc., as spun yarn, small lines, etc.  11. (Tennis)  The act of serving the ball.  12. Act of serving or covering. See Serve, v. t., 13. Service book, a prayer book or missal.  -- Service line (Tennis), a line parallel to the net, and at a distance of 21 feet from it.  -- Service of a writ, process, etc. (Law), personal delivery or communication of the writ or process, etc., to the party to be affected by it, so as to subject him to its operation; the reading of it to the person to whom notice is intended to be given, or the leaving of an attested copy with the person or his attorney, or at his usual place of abode.  -- Service of an attachment (Law), the seizing of the person or goods according to the direction.  -- Service of an execution (Law), the levying of it upon the goods, estate, or person of the defendant.  -- Service pipe, a pipe connecting mains with a dwelling, as in gas pipes, and the like. Tomlinson.  -- To accept service. (Law) See under Accept.  -- To see service (Mil.), to do duty in the presence of the enemy, or in actual war. 

SERVICEAGE:  Servitude. [Obs.] Fairfax.  SERVICE CAP; SERVICE HAT Serv"ice cap or hat. (Mil.)  A cap or hat worn by officers or enlisted men when full-dress uniform, or dress uniform, is not worn. In the United States army the service cap is round, about 3½ inches high, flat-topped, with  a visor. The service hat is of soft felt of khaki color, with  broad brim and high crown, creased down the middle.  SERVICE UNIFORM Service uniform. (Mil. & Nav.)  The uniform prescribed in regulations for active or routine service, in distinction from dress, full dress, etc. In the United States army it is of olive-drab woolen or khaki-colored cotton, with all metal attachments of dull-finish bronze, with the exceptional of insignia of rank, which are of gold or silver finish. 

SERVIENT:  Subordinate. [Obs. except in law.] Dyer. Servient tenement or estate (Law), that on which the burden of a servitude or an easement is imposed. Cf. Dominant estate, under Dominant. Gale & Whately. 

SERVIETTE:  A table napkin. 

SERVILE:  An element which forms no part of the original root; -- opposed to radical. 

SERVILELY:  In a servile manner; slavishly. 

SERVILENESS:  Quality of being servile; servility. 

SERVILITY:  The quality or state of being servile; servileness. To be a queen in bondage is more vile Than is a slave in base servility. Shak. 

SERVING:  a & n. from Serve. Serving board (Naut.), a flat piece of wood used in serving ropes.  -- Serving maid, a female servant; a maidservant.  -- Serving mallet (Naut.), a wooden instrument shaped like a mallet, used in serving ropes.  -- Serving man, a male servant, or attendant; a manservant.  -- Serving stuff (Naut.), small lines for serving ropes. 

SERVITE:  One of the order of the Religious Servants of the Holy Virgin, founded in Florence in 1223. 

SERVITOR:  An undergraduate, partly supported by the college funds, whose duty it formerly was to wait at table. A servitor corresponded to a sizar in Cambridge and Dublin universities. 

SERVITORSHIP:  The office, rank, or condition of a servitor. Boswell. 

SERVITUDE:  A right whereby one thing is subject to another thing or person for use or convenience, contrary to the common right.  Note: The object of a servitude is either to suffer something to be done by another, or to omit to do something, with respect to a thing. The easements of the English correspond in some respects with the servitudes of the Roman law. Both terms are used by common law writers, and often indiscriminately. The former, however, rather indicates the right enjoyed, and the latter the burden imposed. Ayliffe. Erskine. E. Washburn. Penal servitude. See under Penal.  -- Personal servitude (Law), that which arises when the use of a thing is granted as a real right to a particular individual other than the proprietor.  -- Predial servitude (Law), that which one estate owes to another estate. When it related to lands, vineyards, gardens, or the like, it is called rural; when it related to houses and buildings, it is called urban. 

SERVITURE:  Servants, collectively. [Obs.] 

SERVITUTE:  Servitude. [Obs.]  SERVO-MOTOR Ser`vo-mo"tor, n. [Sometimes erroneously spelt serro-motor.] [F. servo-moteur. See Serf; Motor.] (Mach.)  A relay apparatus; specif.:  (a) An auxiliary motor, regulated by a hand lever, for quickly and easily moving the reversing gear of a large marine engine into any desired position indicated by that of the hand lever, which controls the valve of the motor.  (b) In a Whitehead torpedo, a compressed-air motor, for moving the rudders so as to correct deviations from the course. 

SERYE:  A series. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SESAME:  Either of two annual herbaceous plants of the genus Sesamum (S. Indicum, and S. orientale), from the seeds of which an oil is expressed; also, the small obovate, flattish seeds of these plants, sometimes used as food. See Benne. Open Sesame, the magical command which opened the door of the robber's den in the Arabian Nights' tale of "The Forty Thieves;" hence, a magical password.  -- Sesame grass. (Bot.) Same as Gama grass. 

SESAMOID:  Of or pertaining to the sesamoid bones or cartilages; sesamoidal. Sesamoid bones, Sesamoid cartilages (Anat.), small bones or cartilages formed in tendons, like the patella and pisiform in man. 

SESAMOID:  A sesamoid bone or cartilage. 

SESAMOIDAL:  Sesamoid. 

SESBAN:  A leguminous shrub (Sesbania aculeata) which furnishes a fiber used for making ropes.  Note: The name is applied also to the similar plant, Sesbania Ægyptiaca, and other species of the same genus.  SESQUI- Ses`qui-. Etym: [L., one half more, one and a half.] (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting that three atoms or equivalents of the substance to the name of which it is prefixed are combined with two of some other element or radical; as, sesquibromide, sesquicarbonate, sesquichloride, sesquioxide.  Note: Sesquidupli- is sometimes, but rarely, used in the same manner to denote the proportions of two and a half to one, or rather of five to two. 

SESQUIALTER:  Sesquialteral.  SESQUIALTER; SESQUIALTERA Ses`qui*al"ter, Ses`qui*al"ter*a, n. Etym: [NL. sesquialtera.] (Mus.)  A stop on the organ, containing several ranks of pipes which reënforce some of the high harmonics of the ground tone, and make the sound more brilliant.  SESQUIALTERAL; SESQUIALTERATE Ses`qui*al"ter*al, Ses`qui*al"ter*ate, a. Etym: [L. sesquialter once and a half; sesqui- + alter other: cf. F. sesquialtére.]  Once and a half times as great as another; having the ratio of one and a half to one. Sesquialteral ratio (Math.), the ratio of one and a half to one; thus, 9 and 6 are in a sequialteral ratio. 

SESQUIALTEROUS:  Sesquialteral. 

SESQUIBASIC:  Containing, or acting as, a base in the proportions of a sesqui compound. 

SESQUIDUPLICATE:  Twice and a half as great (as another thing); having the ratio of two and a half to one. Sesquiduplicate ratio (Math.), the ratio of two and a half to one, or one in which the greater term contains the lesser twice and a half, as that of 50 to 20. 

SESQUIOXIDE:  An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen with two atoms (or radicals) of some other substance; thus, alumina, Al2O3 is a sesquioxide.  SESQUIPEDAL; SESQUIPEDALIAN Ses*quip"e*dal, Ses`qui*pe*da"li*an, a. Etym: [Sesqui- + pedal: cf. F. sesquipédal, L. sesquipedalis.]  Measuring or containing a foot and a half; as, a sesquipedalian pygmy; -- sometimes humorously applied to long words.  SESQUIPEDALIANISM; SESQUIPEDALISM Ses`qui*pe*da"li*an*ism, Ses*quip"e*dal*ism, n.  Sesquipedality. 

SESQUIPLICATE:  Subduplicate of the triplicate; -- a term applied to ratios; thus, a and a' are in the sesquiplicate ratio of b and b', when a is to a' as the square root of the cube of b is to the square root of the cube of b', or a:a'::sq. rootb3:sq. rootb'3. The periodic times of the planets are in the sesquiplicate ratio of their mean distances. Sir I. Newton. 

SESQUISALT:  A salt derived from a sesquioxide base, or made up on the proportions of a sesqui compound. 

SESQUISULPHIDE:  A sulphide, analogous to a sesquioxide, containing three atoms of sulphur to two of the other ingredient; -- formerly called also sesquisulphuret; as, orpiment, As2S3 is arsenic sesquisulphide. 

SESQUITERTIAL:  Sesquitertian.  SESQUITERTIAN; SESQUITERTIANAL Ses`qui*ter"tian, Ses`qui*ter"tian*al, a. Etym: [Sesqui- + L. tertianus belonging to the third. Cf. Tertian.] (Math.)  Having the ratio of one and one third to one (as 4 : 3). 

SESQUITONE:  A minor third, or interval of three semitones. 

SESS:  To lay a tax upon; to assess. [Obs.] 

SESS:  A tax; an assessment. See Cess. [Obs.] 

SESSA:  Hurry; run. [Obs.] Shak. 

SESSILE:  Resting directly upon the main stem or branch, without a petiole or footstalk; as, a sessile leaf or blossom.  3. (Zoöl.)  Permanently attached; -- said of the gonophores of certain hydroids which never became detached.  SESSILE-EYED Ses"sile-eyed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having eyes which are not elevated on a stalk; -- opposed to stalk-eyed. Sessile-eyed Crustacea, the Arthrostraca. 

SESSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a session or sessions. 

SESSPOOL:  Same as Cesspool. 

SESTERCE:  A Roman coin or denomination of money, in value the fourth part of a denarius, and originally containing two asses and a half, afterward four asses, -- equal to about two pence sterling, or four cents.  Note: The sestertium was equivalent to one thousand sesterces, equal to £8 17s 1d. sterling, or about $43, before the reign of Augustus. After his reign its value was about £7 16s. 3d. sterling. The sesterce was originally coined only in silver, but later both in silver and brass. 

SESTET:  A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; a sextet; -- called also sestuor. [Written also sestett, sestette.]  2. (Poet.)  The last six lines of a sonnet. 

SESTETTO:  A sestet. 

SESTINE:  See Sextain. 

SESTUOR:  A sestet. 

SET:  To compose; to arrange in words, lines, etc.; as, to set type; to set a page. To set abroach. See Abroach. [Obs.] Shak.  -- To set against, to oppose; to set in comparison with, or to oppose to, as an equivalent in exchange; as, to set one thing against another.  -- To set agoing, to cause to move.  -- To set apart, to separate to a particular use; to separate from the rest; to reserve.  -- To set a saw, to bend each tooth a little, every alternate one being bent to one side, and the intermediate ones to the other side, so that the opening made by the saw may be a little wider than the thickness of the back, to prevent the saw from sticking.  -- To set aside. (a) To leave out of account; to pass by; to omit; to neglect; to reject; to annul. Setting aside all other considerations, I will endeavor to know the truth, and yield to that. Tillotson. (b) To set apart; to reserve; as, to set aside part of one's income. (c) (Law) See under Aside.  -- To set at defiance, to defy.  -- To set at ease, to quiet; to tranquilize; as, to set the heart at ease.  -- To set at naught, to undervalue; to contemn; to despise. "Ye have set at naught all my counsel." Prov. i. 25.  -- To set a trap, snare, or gin, to put it in a proper condition or position to catch prey; hence, to lay a plan to deceive and draw another into one's power.  -- To set at work, or To set to work. (a) To cause to enter on work or action, or to direct how tu enter on work. (b) To apply one's self; -- used reflexively.  -- To set before. (a) To bring out to view before; to exhibit. (b) To propose for choice to; to offer to.  -- To set by. (a) To set apart or on one side; to reject. (b) To attach the value of (anything) to. "I set not a straw by thy dreamings." Chaucer.  -- To set by the compass, to observe and note the bearing or situation of by the compass.  -- To set case, to suppose; to assume. Cf. Put case, under Put, v. t. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- To set down. (a) To enter in writing; to register. Some rules were to be set down for the government of the army. Clarendon. (b) To fix; to establish; to ordain. This law we may name eternal, being that order which God . . . hath set down with himself, for himself to do all things by. Hooker. (c) To humiliate.  -- To set eyes on, to see; to behold; to fasten the eyes on.  -- To set fire to, or To set on fire, to communicate fire to; fig., to inflame; to enkindle the passions of; to irritate.  -- To set flying (Naut.), to hook to halyards, sheets, etc., instead of extending with rings or the like on a stay; -- said of a sail.  -- To set forth. (a) To manifest; to offer or present to view; to exhibt; to display. (b) To publish; to promulgate; to make appear. Waller. (c) To send out; to prepare and send. [Obs.] The Venetian admiral had a fleet of sixty galleys, set forth by the Venetians. Knolles. -- To set forward. (a) To cause to advance. (b) To promote.  -- To set free, to release from confinement, imprisonment, or bondage; to liberate; to emancipate.  -- To set in, to put in the way; to begin; to give a start to. [Obs.] If you please to assist and set me in, I will recollect myself. Collier. -- To set in order, to adjust or arrange; to reduce to method. "The rest will I set in order when I come." 1 Cor. xi. 34.  -- To set milk. (a) To expose it in open dishes in order that the cream may rise to the surface. (b) To cause it to become curdled as by the action of rennet. See 4 (e).  -- To set much, or little, by, to care much, or little, for.  -- To set of, to value; to set by. [Obs.] "I set not an haw of his proverbs." Chaucer.  -- To set off. (a) To separate from a whole; to assign to a particular purpose; to portion off; as, to set off a portion of an estate. (b) To adorn; to decorate; to embellish. They . . . set off the worst faces with the best airs. Addison. (c) To give a flattering description of.  -- To set off against, to place against as an equivalent; as, to set off one man's services against another's.  -- To set on or upon. (a) To incite; to instigate. "Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this." Shak. (b) To employ, as in a task. " Set on thy wife to observe." Shak. (c) To fix upon; to attach strongly to; as, to set one's heart or affections on some object. See definition 2, above.  -- To set one's cap for. See under Cap, n.  -- To set one's self against, to place one's self in a state of enmity or opposition to.  -- To set one's teeth, to press them together tightly.  -- To set on foot, to set going; to put in motion; to start.  -- To set out. (a) To assign; to allot; to mark off; to limit; as, to set out the share of each proprietor or heir of an estate; to set out the widow's thirds. (b) To publish, as a proclamation. [Obs.] (c) To adorn; to embellish. An ugly woman, in rich habit set out with jewels, nothing can become. Dryden. (d) To raise, equip, and send forth; to furnish. [R.] The Venetians pretend they could set out, in case of great necessity, thirty men-of-war. Addison. (e) To show; to display; to recommend; to set off. I could set out that best side of Luther. Atterbury. (f) To show; to prove. [R.] "Those very reasons set out how heinous his sin was." Atterbury. (g) (Law) To recite; to state at large.  -- To set over. (a) To appoint or constitute as supervisor, inspector, ruler, or commander. (b) To assign; to transfer; to convey.  -- To set right, to correct; to put in order.  -- To set sail. (Naut.) See under Sail, n.  -- To set store by, to consider valuable.  -- To set the fashion, to determine what shall be the fashion; to establish the mode.  -- To set the teeth on edge, to affect the teeth with a disagreeable sensation, as when acids are brought in contact with them.  -- To set the watch (Naut.), to place the starboard or port watch on duty.  -- To set to, to attach to; to affix to. "He . . . hath set to his seal that God is true." John iii. 33.  -- To set up. (a) To erect; to raise; to elevate; as, to set up a building, or a machine; to set up a post, a wall, a pillar. (b) Hence, to exalt; to put in power. "I will . . . set up the throne of David over Israel." 2 Sam. iii. 10. (c) To begin, as a new institution; to institute; to establish; to found; as, to set up a manufactory; to set up a school. (d) To enable to commence a new business; as, to set up a son in trade. (e) To place in view; as, to set up a mark. (f) To raise; to utter loudly; as, to set up the voice. I'll set up such a note as she shall hear. Dryden. (g) To advance; to propose as truth or for reception; as, to set up a new opinion or doctrine. T. Burnet. (h) To raise from depression, or to a sufficient fortune; as, this good fortune quite set him up. (i) To intoxicate. [Slang] (j) (Print.) To put in type; as, to set up copy; to arrange in words, lines, etc., ready for printing; as, to set up type.  -- To set up the rigging (Naut.), to make it taut by means of tackles. R. H. Dana, Jr.  Syn.  -- See Put. 

SET:  Permanent change of figure in consequence of excessive strain, as from compression, tension, bending, twisting, etc.; as, the set of a spring. (d) A kind of punch used for bending, indenting, or giving shape to, metal; as, a saw set. (e) (Pile Driving)  A piece placed temporarily upon the head of a pile when the latter cannot be reached by the weight, or hammer, except by means of such an intervening piece. [Often incorrectly written sett.] (f) (Carp.)  A short steel spike used for driving the head of a nail below the surface.  3. Etym: [Perhaps due to confusion with sect, sept.]  A number of things of the same kind, ordinarily used or classed together; a collection of articles which naturally complement each other, and usually go together; an assortment; a suit; as, a set of chairs, of china, of surgical or mathematical instruments, of books, etc. [In this sense, sometimes incorrectly written sett.]  4. A number of persons associated by custom, office, common opinion, quality, or the like; a division; a group; a clique. "Others of our set." Tennyson. This falls into different divisions, or sets, of nations connected under particular religions. R. P. Ward.  5. Direction or course; as, the set of the wind, or of a current.  6. In dancing, the number of persons necessary to execute a quadrille; also, the series of figures or movements executed.  7. The deflection of a tooth, or of the teeth, of a saw, which causes the the saw to cut a kerf, or make an opening, wider than the blade.  8. (a) A young oyster when first attached. (b) Collectively, the crop of young oysters in any locality.  9. (Tennis)  A series of as many games as may be necessary to enable one side to win six. If at the end of the tenth game the score is a tie, the set is usually called a deuce set, and decided by an application of the rules for playing off deuce in a game. See Deuce.  10. (Type Founding)  That dimension of the body of a type called by printers the width. Dead set. (a) The act of a setter dog when it discovers the game, and remains intently fixed in pointing it out. (b) A fixed or stationary condition arising from obstacle or hindrance; a deadlock; as, to be at a dead set. (c) A concerted scheme to defraud by gaming; a determined onset.  -- To make a dead set, to make a determined onset, literally or figuratively.  Syn.  -- Collection; series; group. See Pair. 

SETA:  Any slender, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ or part; as the hairs of a caterpillar, the slender spines of a crustacean, the hairlike processes of a protozoan, the bristles or stiff hairs on the leaves of some plants, or the pedicel of the capsule of a moss.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) One of the movable chitinous spines or hooks of an annelid. They usually arise in clusters from muscular capsules, and are used in locomotion and for defense. They are very diverse in form. (b) One of the spinelike feathers at the base of the bill of certain birds. 

SETBACK:  Offset, n., 4.  2. A backset; a countercurrent; an eddy. [U. S.]  3. A backset; a check; a repulse; a reverse; a relapse. [Colloq. U.S.] 

SETBOLT:  A kind of chisel or punch, variously shaped, with a broad flat end, used for stripping off rivet heads, etc. 

SETDOWN:  The humbling of a person by act or words, especially by a retort or a reproof; the retort or the reproof which has such effect. 

SETEE:  See 2d Settee. 

SETEN:  obs. imp. pl. of Sit. Sat. Chaucer. 

SETEWALE:  See Cetewale. [Obs.]  SET-FAIR Set"-fair`, n.  In plastering, a particularly good troweled surface. Knight. 

SETFOIL:  See Septfoil. 

SETHEN:  See Since. [Obs.] 

SETHIC:  See Sothic. 

SETIFEROUS:  Producing, or having one or more, bristles. 

SETIFORM:  Having the form or structure of setæ. 

SETIGER:  An annelid having setæ; a chætopod. 

SETIGEROUS:  Covered with bristles; having or bearing a seta or setæ; setiferous; as, setigerous glands; a setigerous segment of an annelid; specifically (Bot.), tipped with a bristle. 

SETIM:  See Shittim. 

SETIPAROUS:  Producing setæ; -- said of the organs from which the setæ of annelids arise. 

SETIREME:  A swimming leg (of an insect) having a fringe of hairs on the margin. 

SETNESS:  The quality or state of being set; formality; obstinacy. "The starched setness of a sententious writer." R. Masters.  SET-OFF Set"-off`, n. Etym: [Set + off.]  1. That which is set off against another thing; an offset. I do not contemplate such a heroine as a set-off to the many sins imputed to me as committed against woman. D. Jerrold.  2. That which is used to improve the appearance of anything; a decoration; an ornament.  3. (Law)  A counterclaim; a cross debt or demand; a distinct claim filed or set up by the defendant against the plaintiff's demand.  Note: Set-off differs from recoupment, as the latter generally grows out of the same matter or contract with the plaintiff's claim, while the former grows out of distinct matter, and does not of itself deny the justice of the plaintiff's demand. Offset is sometimes improperly used for the legal term set-off. See Recoupment.  4. (Arch.)  Same as Offset, n., 4.  5. (Print.)  See Offset, 7.  Syn.  -- Set-off, Offset.  -- Offset originally denoted that which branches off or projects, as a shoot from a tree, but the term has long been used in America in the sense of set-off. This use is beginning to obtain in England; though Macaulay uses set-off, and so, perhaps, do a majority of English writers. 

SETON:  A few silk threads or horsehairs, or a strip of linen or the like, introduced beneath the skin by a knife or needle, so as to form an issue; also, the issue so formed.  SETOSE; SETOUS Se*tose", Se"tous, a. Etym: [L. setosus, saetosus, from seta, saeta, bristle: cf. F. séteux.]  Thickly set with bristles or bristly hairs. 

SETOUT:  A display, as of plate, equipage, etc.; that which is displayed. [Coloq.] Dickens.  SET-STITCHED Set"-stitched`, a.  Stitched according to a formal pattern. "An old set-stiched chair, valanced, and fringed with party-colored worsted bobs." Sterne. 

SETT:  See Set, n., 2 (e) and 3. 

SETTEE:  A long seat with a back, -- made to accommodate several persons at once. 

SETTEE:  A vessel with a very long, sharp prow, carrying two or three masts with lateen sails, -- used in the Mediterranean. [Written also setee.] 

SETTER:  A hunting dog of a special breed originally derived from a cross between the spaniel and the pointer. Modern setters are usually trained to indicate the position of game birds by standing in a fixed position, but originally they indicated it by sitting or crouching.  Note: There are several distinct varieties of setters; as, the Irish, or red, setter; the Gordon setter, which is usually red or tan varied with black; and the English setter, which is variously colored, but usually white and tawny red, with or without black.  3. One who hunts victims for sharpers. Shak.  4. One who adapts words to music in composition.  5. An adornment; a decoration; -- with off. [Obs.] They come as . . . setters off of thy graces. Whitlock.  6. (Pottery)  A shallow seggar for porcelain. Ure. 

SETTER:  To cut the dewlap (of a cow or an ox), and to insert a seton, so as to cause an issue. [Prov. Eng.] 

SETTERWORT:  The bear's-foot (Helleborus foetidus); -- so called because the root was used in settering, or inserting setons into the dewlaps of cattle. Called also pegroots. Dr. Prior. 

SETTING:  Any one of a series of gymnastic exercises used, as in drilling recruits, for the purpose of giving an erect carriage, supple muscles, and an easy control of the limbs. 

SETTLEDNESS:  The quality or state of being settled; confirmed state. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

SETTLEMENT:  A disposition of property for the benefit of some person or persons, usually through the medium of trustees, and for the benefit of a wife, children, or other relatives; jointure granted to a wife, or the act of granting it.  2. That which settles, or is settled, established, or fixed. Specifically: -- (a) Matter that subsides; settlings; sediment; lees; dregs. [Obs.] Fuller's earth left a thick settlement. Mortimer.  (b) A colony newly established; a place or region newly settled; as, settlement in the West. (c) That which is bestowed formally and permanently; the sum secured to a person; especially, a jointure made to a woman at her marriage; also, in the United States, a sum of money or other property formerly granted to a pastor in additional to his salary.  3. (Arch.) (a) The gradual sinking of a building, whether by the yielding of the ground under the foundation, or by the compression of the joints or the material. (b) pl.  Fractures or dislocations caused by settlement.  4. (Law)  A settled place of abode; residence; a right growing out of residence; legal residence or establishment of a person in a particular parish or town, which entitles him to maintenance if a pauper, and subjects the parish or town to his support. Blackstone. Bouvier. Act of settlement (Eng. Hist.), the statute of 12 and 13 William III, by which the crown was limited to the present reigning house (the house of Hanover). Blackstone. 

SETTLING:  That which settles at the bottom of a liquid; lees; dregs; sediment. Milton. Settling day, a day for settling accounts, as in the stock market.  SET-TO Set"-to`, n.  A contest in boxing, in an argument, or the like. [Colloq.] Halliwell. 

SETULA:  A small, short hair or bristle; a small seta. 

SETULE:  A setula. 

SETULOSE:  Having small bristles or setæ. 

SETWALL:  A plant formerly valued for its restorative qualities (Valeriana officinalis, or V. Pyrenaica). [Obs.] [Written also setwal.] Chaucer. 

SEVEN:  One more than six; six and one added; as, seven days make one week. Seven sciences. See the Note under Science, n., 4.  -- Seven stars (Astron.), the Pleiades.  -- Seven wonders of the world. See under Wonders.  -- Seven-year apple (Bot.), a rubiaceous shrub (Genipa clusiifolia) growing in the West Indies; also, its edible fruit.  -- Seven-year vine (Bot.), a tropical climbing plant (Ipomoea tuberosa) related to the morning-glory. 

SEVENFOLD:  Repeated seven times; having seven thicknesses; increased to seven times the size or amount. "Sevenfold rage." Milton. 

SEVENFOLD:  Seven times as much or as often. Whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. Gen. iv. 15. 

SEVENNIGHT:  A week; any period of seven consecutive days and nights. See Sennight. 

SEVENSCORE:  Seven times twenty, that is, a hundred and forty. The old Countess of Desmond . . . lived sevenscore years. Bacon.  SEVEN-SHOOTER Sev"en-shoot`er, n.  A firearm, esp. a pistol, with seven barrels or chambers for cartridges, or one capable of firing seven shots without reloading. [Colloq.] 

SEVENTEEN:  One more than sixteen; ten and seven added; as, seventeen years. 

SEVENTEENTH:  An interval of two octaves and a third. 

SEVENTH:  A name given to three several issues of United States Treasury notes, made during the Civil War, in denominations of $50 and over, bearing interest at the rate of seven and three tenths (thirty hundredths) per cent annually. Within a few years they were all redeemed or funded. 

SEVENTHLY:  In the seventh place. 

SEVENTY:  Seven times ten; one more than sixty-nine. 

SEVENTY:  A naval vessel carrying seventy-four guns.  SEVEN-UP Sev"en-up`, n.  The game of cards called also all fours, and old sledge. [U. S.] 

SEVER:  To disunite; to disconnect; to terminate; as, to sever an estate in joint tenancy. Blackstone. 

SEVERABLE:  Capable of being severed. Encyc. Dict. 

SEVERAL:  By itself; severally. [Obs.] Every kind of thing is laid up several in barns or storehoudses. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

SEVERALITY:  Each particular taken singly; distinction. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SEVERALIZE:  To distinguish. [Obs.] 

SEVERALLY:  Separately; distinctly; apart from others; individually. There must be an auditor to check and revise each severally by itself. De Quincey. 

SEVERALTY:  A state of separation from the rest, or from all others; a holding by individual right. Forests which had never been owned in severalty. Bancroft. Estate in severalty (Law), an estate which the tenant holds in his own right, without being joined in interest with any other person; -- distinguished from joint tenancy, coparcenary, and common. Blackstone. 

SEVERANCE:  The act of dividing; the singling or severing of two or more that join, or are joined, in one writ; the putting in several or separate pleas or answers by two or more disjointly; the destruction of the unity of interest in a joint estate. Bouvier. 

SEVERITY:  The quality or state of being severe. Specifically: -- (a) Gravity or austerity; extreme strictness; rigor; harshness; as, the severity of a reprimand or a reproof; severity of discipline or government; severity of penalties. "Strict age, and sour severity." Milton. (b) The quality or power of distressing or paining; extreme degree; extremity; intensity; inclemency; as, the severity of pain or anguish; the severity of cold or heat; the severity of the winter. (c) Harshness; cruel treatment; sharpness of punishment; as, severity practiced on prisoners of war. (d) Exactness; rigorousness; strictness; as, the severity of a test. Confining myself to the severity of truth. Dryden. 

SEVERY:  A bay or compartment of a vaulted ceiling. [Written also civery.] 

SEVOCATION:  A calling aside. [Obs.]  SEVRES BLUE Sè"vres blue`.  A very light blue.  SEVRES WARE Sè"vres ware`.  Porcelain manufactured at Sèvres, France, ecpecially in the national factory situated there. 

SEW:  Juice; gravy; a seasoned dish; a delicacy. [Obs.] Gower. I will not tell of their strange sewes. Chaucer. 

SEW:  To follow; to pursue; to sue. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

SEW:  To practice sewing; to work with needle and thread. 

SEW:  To drain, as a pond, for taking the fish. [Obs.] Tusser. 

SEWE:  To perform the duties of a sewer. See 3d Sewer. [Obs.] 

SEWEL:  A scarecrow, generally made of feathers tied to a string, hung up to prevent deer from breaking into a place. Halliwell. 

SEWELLEL:  A peculiar gregarious burrowing rodent (Haplodon rufus), native of the coast region of the Northwestern United States. It somewhat resembles a muskrat or marmot, but has only a rudimentary tail. Its head is broad, its eyes are small and its fur is brownish above, gray beneath. It constitutes the family Haplodontidæ. Called also boomer, showt'l, and mountain beaver. 

SEWEN:  A British trout usually regarded as a variety (var. Cambricus) of the salmon trout. 

SEWER:  A small tortricid moth whose larva sews together the edges of a leaf by means of silk; as, the apple-leaf sewer (Phoxopteris nubeculana) 

SEWER:  A drain or passage to carry off water and filth under ground; a subterraneous channel, particularly in cities. 

SEWER:  Formerly, an upper servant, or household officer, who set on and removed the dishes at a feast, and who also brought water for the hands of the guests. Then the sewer Poured water from a great and golden ewer, That from their hands to a silver caldron ran. Chapman. 

SEWIN:  Same as Sewen. 

SEWSTER:  A seamstress. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  SEX- Sex-. Etym: [L. sex six. See Six.]  A combining form meaning six; as, sexdigitism; sexennial. 

SEXAGENARIAN:  A person who is sixty years old. 

SEXAGENARY:  Pertaining to, or designating, the number sixty; poceeding by sixties; sixty years old. Sexagenary arithmetic. See under Sexagesimal.  -- Sexagenary, or Sexagesimal, scale (Math.), a scale of numbers in which the modulus is sixty. It is used in treating the divisions of the circle. 

SEXAGESIMA:  The second Sunday before Lent; -- so called as being about the sixtieth day before Easter. 

SEXAGESIMAL:  Pertaining to, or founded on, the number sixty. Sexagesimal fractions or numbers (Arith. & Alg.), those fractions whose denominators are some power of sixty; as, astronomical fractions, because formerly there were no others used in astronomical calculations.  -- Sexagesimal, or Sexagenary, arithmetic, the method of computing by the sexagenary scale, or by sixties.  -- Sexagesimal scale (Math.), the sexagenary scale. 

SEXAGESIMAL:  A sexagesimal fraction. 

SEXANGLE:  A hexagon. [R.] Hutton.  SEXANGLED; SEXANGULAR Sex"an`gled, Sex*an"gu*lar a. Etym: [Cf. F. sexangulaire.]  Having six angles; hexagonal. [R.] Dryden. 

SEXANGULARLY:  Hexagonally. [R.] 

SEXAVALENT:  See Sexivalent. [R.] 

SEXDIGITISM:  The state of having six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a foot. 

SEXDIGITIST:  One who has six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a foot. 

SEXED:  Belonging to sex; having sex; distinctively male of female; as, the sexed condition. 

SEXENARY:  Proceeding by sixes; sextuple; -- applied especially to a system of arithmetical computation in which the base is six. 

SEXENNIAL:  Lasting six years, or happening once in six years.  -- n.  A sexennial event. 

SEXENNIALLY:  Once in six years.  SEXFID; SEXIFID Sex"fid, Sex"i*fid, a. Etym: [Sex- + root of L. findere to split: cf. F. sexfide.] (Bot.)  Six-cleft; as, a sexfid calyx or nectary. 

SEXISYLLABIC:  Having six syllables. Emerson. 

SEXISYLLABLE:  A word of six syllables. 

SEXIVALENT:  Hexavalent. [R.] 

SEXLESS:  Having no sex. 

SEXLOCULAR:  Having six cells for seeds; six-celled; as, a sexlocular pericarp. 

SEXLY:  Pertaining to sex. [R.] Should I ascribe any of these things unto myself or my sexly weakness, I were not worthy to live. Queen Elizabeth. 

SEXRADIATE:  Having six rays; -- said of certain sponge spicules. See Illust. of Spicule. 

SEXTAIN:  A stanza of six lines; a sestine. 

SEXTANS:  A Roman coin, the sixth part of an as.  2. (Astron.)  A constellation on the equator south of Leo; the Sextant. 

SEXTANT:  The sixth part of a circle.  2. An instrument for measuring angular distances between objects, -- used esp. at sea, for ascertaining the latitude and longitude. It is constructed on the same optical principle as Hadley's quadrant, but usually of metal, with a nicer graduation, telescopic sight, and its arc the sixth, and sometimes the third, part of a circle. See Quadrant.  3. (Astron.)  The constellation Sextans. Box sextant, a small sextant inclosed in a cylindrical case to make it more portable. 

SEXTARY:  An ancient Roman liquid and dry measure, about equal to an English pint. 

SEXTARY:  A sacristy. [Obs.]  SEXTET; SEXTETTO Sex*tet", Sex*tet"to, n. (Mus.)  See Sestet. 

SEXTEYN:  A sacristan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SEXTIC:  Of the sixth degree or order.  -- n. (Alg.)  A quantic of the sixth degree. 

SEXTILE:  Measured by sixty degrees; fixed or indicated by a distance of sixty degrees. Glanvill. 

SEXTILE:  The aspect or position of two planets when distant from each other sixty degrees, or two signs. This position is marked thus: Hutton. 

SEXTILLION:  According to the method of numeration (which is followed also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-one ciphers annexed. According to the English method, a million raised to the sixth power, or the number expressed by a unit with thirty-six ciphers annexed. See Numeration. 

SEXTO:  A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into six leaves. 

SEXTODECIMO:  Having sixteen leaves to a sheet; of, or equal to, the size of one fold of a sheet of printing paper when folded so as to make sixteen leaves, or thirty-two pages; as, a sextodecimo volume. 

SEXTODECIMO:  A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into sixteen leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of a book; -- usually written 16mo, or 16º. 

SEXTOLET:  A double triplet; a group of six equal notes played in the time of four. 

SEXTON:  An under officer of a church, whose business is to take care of the church building and the vessels, vestments, etc., belonging to the church, to attend on the officiating clergyman, and to perform other duties pertaining to the church, such as to dig graves, ring the bell, etc. Sexton beetle (Zoöl.), a burying beetle. 

SEXTONESS:  A female sexton; a sexton's wife. 

SEXTONRY:  Sextonship. [Obs.] Ld. Bernes. 

SEXTONSHIP:  The office of a sexton. Swift. 

SEXTRY:  See Sacristy. [Obs.] 

SEXTUPLE:  Divisible by six; having six beats; as, sixtuple measure. 

SEXUAL:  Of or pertaining to sex, or the sexes; distinguishing sex; peculiar to the distinction and office of male or female; relating to the distinctive genital organs of the sexes; proceeding from, or based upon, sex; as, sexual characteristics; sexual intercourse, connection, or commerce; sexual desire; sexual diseases; sexual generation. Sexual dimorphism (Biol.), the condition of having one of the sexes existing in two forms, or varieties, differing in color, size, etc., as in many species of butterflies which have two kinds of females.  -- Sexual method (Bot.), a method of classification proposed by Linnæus, founded mainly on difference in number and position of the stamens and pistils of plants.  -- Sexual selection (Biol.), the selective preference of one sex for certain characteristics in the other, such as bright colors, musical notes, etc.; also, the selection which results from certain individuals of one sex having more opportunities of pairing with the other sex, on account of greater activity, strength, courage, etc.; applied likewise to that kind of evolution which results from such sexual preferences. Darwin. In these cases, therefore, natural selection seems to have acted independently of sexual selection. A. R. Wallace. 

SEXUALIST:  One who classifies plants by the sexual method of Linnæus. 

SEXUALITY:  The quality or state of being distinguished by sex. Lindley. 

SEXUALIZE:  To attribute sex to. 

SEXUALLY:  In a sexual manner or relation.  SEY; SEYH Sey, Seyh, obs. imp. sing. & 2d pers. pl.  of See. Chaucer.  SEYE; SEYEN Seye, Seyen, obs. imp. pl. & p. p.  of See. 

SEYND:  of Senge, to singe. Chaucer. 

SEYNT:  A gridle. See 1st Seint. [Obs.]  SFORZANDO; SFORZATO Sfor*zan"do, Sfor*za"to, a. Etym: [It. sforzando, p. pr., and sforzato, p. p. of sforzare to force.] (Mus.)  Forcing or forced; -- a direction placed over a note, to signify that it must be executed with peculiar emphasis and force; -- marked fz (an abbreviation of forzando), sf, sfz, or 

SFUMATO:  Having vague outlines, and colors and shades so mingled as to give a misty appearance; -- said of a painting. 

SGRAFFITO:  Scratched; -- said of decorative painting of a certain style, in which a white overland surface is cut or scratched through, so as to form the design from a dark ground underneath. 

SHAB:  The itch in animals; also, a scab. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SHAB:  To play mean tricks; to act shabbily. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] 

SHAB:  To scratch; to rub. [Obs.] Farquhar. 

SHABBED:  Shabby. [Obs.] Wood. 

SHABBILY:  In a shabby manner. 

SHABBINESS:  The quality or state of being sghabby.  SHABBLE; SHABBLE Shab"ble, Shab"ble, n.Etym: [Cf. D. sabel, and G. säbel.]  A kind of crooked sword or hanger. [Scot.] 

SHABRACK:  The saddlecloth or housing of a cavalry horse. 

SHACKATORY:  A hound. [Obs.] 

SHACKLE:  Stubble. [Prov. Eng.] Pegge. 

SHACKLOCK:  A sort of shackle. [Obs.] 

SHACKLY:  Shaky; rickety. [Colloq. U. S.] 

SHAD:  Any one of several species of food fishes of the Herring family. The American species (Clupea sapidissima), which is abundant on the Atlantic coast and ascends the larger rivers in spring to spawn, is an important market fish. The European allice shad, or alose (C. alosa), and the twaite shad. (C. finta), are less important species. [Written also chad.]  Note: The name is loosely applied, also, to several other fishes, as the gizzard shad (see under Gizzard), called also mud shad, white- eyed shad, and winter shad. Hardboaded, or Yellow-tailed, shad, the menhaden.  -- Hickory, or Tailor, shad, the mattowacca.  -- Long-boned shad, one of several species of important food fishes of the Bermudas and the West Indies, of the genus Gerres.  -- Shad bush (Bot.), a name given to the North American shrubs or small trees of the rosaceous genus Amelanchier (A. Canadensis, and A. alnifolia) Their white racemose blossoms open in April or May, when the shad appear, and the edible berries (pomes) ripen in June or July, whence they are called Juneberries. The plant is also called service tree, and Juneberry.  -- Shad frog, an American spotted frog (Rana halecina); -- so called because it usually appears at the time when the shad begin to run in the rivers.  -- Trout shad, the squeteague.  -- White shad,the common shad. 

SHADD:  Rounded stones containing tin ore, lying at the surface of the ground, and indicating a vein. Raymond. 

SHADDE:  obs. imp. of Shed. Chaucer. 

SHADDOCK:  A tree (Citrus decumana) and its fruit, which is a large species of orange; -- called also forbidden fruit, and pompelmous. 

SHADE:  The darker portion of a picture; a less illuminated part. See Def. 1, above.  8. Degree or variation of color, as darker or lighter, stronger or paler; as, a delicate shade of pink. White, red, yellow, blue, with their several degrees, or shades and mixtures, as green only in by the eyes. Locke.  9. A minute difference or variation, as of thought, belief, expression, etc.; also, the quality or degree of anything which is distinguished from others similar by slight differences; as, the shades of meaning in synonyms. New shades and combinations of thought. De Quincey. Every shade of religious and political opinion has its own headquarters. Macaulay. The Shades, the Nether World; the supposed abode of souls after leaving the body. 

SHADEFUL:  Full of shade; shady. 

SHADELESS:  Being without shade; not shaded. 

SHADER:  One who, or that which, shades. 

SHADILY:  In a shady manner. 

SHADINESS:  , n. Quality or state of being shady. 

SHADOOF:  A machine, resembling a well sweep, used in Egypt for raising water from the Nile for irrigation. 

SHADOWINESS:  The quality or state of being shadowy. 

SHADOWISH:  Shadowy; vague. [Obs.] Hooker. 

SHADOWLESS:  Having no shadow. 

SHADRACH:  A mass of iron on which the operation of smelting has failed of its intended effect; -- so called from Shadrach, one of the three Hebrews who came forth unharmed from the fiery furnace of Nebuchadnezzar. (See Dan. iii. 26, 27.)  SHAD-SPIRIT Shad"-spir`it, n.  See Shadbird (a)  SHAD-WAITER Shad"-wait`er, n. (Zoöl.)  A lake whitefish; the roundfish. See Roundfish. 

SHAFFLE:  To hobble or limp; to shuffle. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] 

SHAFFLER:  A hobbler; one who limps; a shuffer. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] 

SHAFIITE:  A member of one of the four sects of the Sunnites, or Orthodox Mohammedans; -- so called from its founder, Mohammed al-Shafeï. 

SHAFT:  A rod at the end of a heddle. (j) (Mach.) A solid or hollow cylinder or bar, having one or more journals on which it rests and revolves, and intended to carry one or more wheels or other revolving parts and to transmit power or motion; as, the shaft of a steam engine. See Illust. of Countershaft.  4. (Zoöl.)  A humming bird (Thaumastura cora) having two of the tail feathers next to the middle ones very long in the male; -- called also cora humming bird.  5. Etym: [Cf. G. schacht.] (Mining)  A well-like excavation in the earth, perpendicular or nearly so, made for reaching and raising ore, for raising water, etc.  6. A long passage for the admission or outlet of air; an air shaft.  7. The chamber of a blast furnace. Line shaft (Mach.), a main shaft of considerable length, in a shop or factory, usually bearing a number of pulleys by which machines are driven, commonly by means of countershafts; -- called also line, or main line.  -- Shaft alley (Naut.), a passage extending from the engine room to the stern, and containing the propeller shaft.  -- Shaft furnace (Metal.), a furnace, in the form of a chimney, which is charged at the top and tapped at the bottom. 

SHAFTED:  Having a shaft; -- applied to a spear when the head and the shaft are of different tinctures. 

SHAFTING:  Shafts, collectivelly; a system of connected shafts for communicating motion.  SHAFTMAN; SHAFTMENT Shaft"man, Shaft"ment, n. Etym: [AS. sceaftmund.]  A measure of about six inches. [Obs.] 

SHAG:  A kind of prepared tobacco cut fine.  4. (Zoöl.)  Any species of cormorant. 

SHAG:  Hairy; shaggy. Shak. 

SHAG:  To make hairy or shaggy; hence, to make rough. Shag the green zone that bounds the boreal skies. J. Barlow. 

SHAGBARK:  A rough-barked species of hickory (Carya alba), its nut. Called also shellbark. See Hickory. (b) The West Indian Pithecolobium micradenium, a legiminous tree with a red coiled-up pod. 

SHAGEBUSH:  A sackbut. [Obs.] 

SHAGGED:  Shaggy; rough. Milton.  -- Shag"ged*ness, n. Dr. H. More. 

SHAGGINESS:  The quality or state of being shaggy; roughness; shaggedness. 

SHAGGY:  Rough with long hair or wool. About his shoulders hangs the shaggy skin. Dryden.  2. Rough; rugged; jaggy. Milton. [A rill] that winds unseen beneath the shaggy fell. Keble.  SHAG-HAIRED Shag"-haired`, a.  Having shaggy hair. Shak.  SHAG-RAG Shag"-rag`, n.  The unkempt and ragged part of the community. [Colloq. or Slang.] R. Browning. 

SHAGREEN:  To chagrin. [Obs.] 

SHAGREEN:  Covered with rough scales or points like those on shagreen. 

SHAH:  The title of the supreme ruler in certain Eastern countries, especially Persia. [Written also schah.] Shah Nameh. Etym: [Per., Book of Kings.] A celebrated historical poem written by Firdousi, being the most ancient in the modern Persian language. Brande & C. 

SHAHIN:  A large and swift Asiatic falcon (Falco pregrinator) highly valued in falconry. 

SHAIK:  See Sheik. 

SHAIL:  To walk sidewise. [Obs.] L'Estrange.  SHAITAN; SHEITAN Shai"tan, Shei"tan, n. [Written also sheytan.] [Hind. shaitan, fr. Ar. shaitsan.]  1. Among Mohammedans:  (a) An evil spirit; the evil one; the devil.  (b) One of bad disposition; a fiend. [Colloq.]  2.  (Meteor.) A dust storm. [India] 

SHAKE:  obs. p. p. of Shake. Chaucer. 

SHAKE:  To give a tremulous tone to; to trill; as, to shake a note in music.  4. To move or remove by agitating; to throw off by a jolting or vibrating motion; to rid one's self of; -- generally with an adverb, as off, out, etc.; as, to shake fruit down from a tree. Shake off the golden slumber of repose. Shak. 'Tis our fast intent To shake all cares and business from our age. Shak. I could scarcely shake him out of my company. Bunyan. To shake a cask (Naut.), to knock a cask to pieces and pack the staves.  -- To shake hands, to perform the customary act of civility by clasping and moving hands, as an expression of greeting, farewell, good will, agreement, etc.  -- To shake out a reef (Naut.), to untile the reef points and spread more canvas.  -- To shake the bells. See under Bell.  -- To shake the sails (Naut.), to luff up in the wind, causing the sails to shiver. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

SHAKE:  To be agitated with a waving or vibratory motion; to tremble; to shiver; to quake; to totter. Under his burning wheels The steadfast empyrean shook throughout, All but the throne itself of God. Milton. What danger Who 's that that shakes behind there Beau & FL. Shaking piece, a name given by butchers to the piece of beef cut from the under side of the neck. See Illust. of Beef. 

SHAKE:  A rapid alternation of a principal tone with another represented on the next degree of the staff above or below it; a trill.  5. (Naut.)  One of the staves of a hogshead or barrel taken apart. Totten.  6. A shook of staves and headings. Knight.  7. (Zoöl.)  The redshank; -- so called from the nodding of its head while on the ground. [Prov. Eng.] No great shakes, of no great importance. [Slang] Byron.  -- The shakes, the fever and ague. [Colloq. U.S.] 

SHAKEDOWN:  A temporary substitute for a bed, as one made on the floor or on chairs; -- perhaps originally from the shaking down of straw for this purpose. Sir W. Scott. 

SHAKEFORK:  A fork for shaking hay; a pitchfork. [Obs.] 

SHAKER:  A variety of pigeon. P. J. Selby. 

SHAKERESS:  A female Shaker. 

SHAKERISM:  Doctrines of the Shakers. 

SHAKESPEAREAN:  Of, pertaining to, or in the style of, Shakespeare or his works. [Written also Shakespearian, Shakspearean, Shakspearian, Shaksperean, Shaksperian.etc.] 

SHAKINESS:  Quality of being shaky. 

SHAKINGS:  Deck sweepings, refuse of cordage, canvas, etc. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

SHAKO:  A kind of military cap or headress. 

SHAKUDO:  An alloy of copper, invented by the Japanese, having a very dark blue color approaching black. 

SHALE:  A fine-grained sedimentary rock of a thin, laminated, and often friable, structure. Bituminous shale. See under Bituminous. 

SHALE:  To take off the shell or coat of; to shell. Life, in its upper grades, was bursting its shell, or was shaling off its husk. I. Taylor. 

SHALLI:  See Challis. 

SHALLON:  An evergreen shrub (Gaultheria Shallon) of Northwest America; also, its fruit. See Salal-berry. 

SHALLOON:  A thin, loosely woven, twilled worsted stuff. In blue shalloon shall Hannibal be clad. Swift. 

SHALLOP:  A boat. [She] thrust the shallop from the floating strand. Spenser.  Note: The term shallop is applied to boats of all sizes, from a light canoe up to a large boat with masts and sails. 

SHALLOT:  A small kind of onion (Allium Ascalonicum) growing in clusters, and ready for gathering in spring; a scallion, or eschalot. 

SHALLOW:  The rudd. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHALLOW:  To make shallow. Sir T. Browne. 

SHALLOW:  To become shallow, as water.  SHALLOW-BODIED Shal"low-bod`ied, a. (Naut.)  Having a moderate depth of hold; -- said of a vessel.  SHALLOW-BRAINED Shal"low-brained`, a.  Weak in intellect; foolish; empty-headed. South.  SHALLOW-HEARTED Shal"low-heart`ed, a.  Incapable of deep feeling. Tennyson. 

SHALLOWLY:  In a shallow manner. 

SHALLOWNESS:  Quality or state of being shallow.  SHALLOW-PATED Shal"low-pat`ed, a.  Shallow-brained.  SHALLOW-WAISTED Shal"low-waist`ed, a. (Naut.)  Having a flush deck, or with only a moderate depression amidships; -- said of a vessel. 

SHALM:  See Shawm. [Obs.] Knolles. 

SHALT:  2d per. sing. of Shall. 

SHALY:  Resembling shale in structure. 

SHAM:  False; counterfeit; pretended; feigned; unreal; as, a sham fight. They scorned the sham independence proffered to them by the Athenians. Jowett (Thucyd) 

SHAM:  To make false pretenses; to deceive; to feign; to impose. Wondering . . . whether those who lectured him were such fools as they professed to be, or were only shamming. Macaulay. 

SHAMA:  A saxicoline singing bird (Kittacincla macroura) of India, noted for the sweetness and power of its song. In confinement it imitates the notes of other birds and various animals with accuracy. Its head, neck, back, breast, and tail are glossy black, the rump white, the under parts chestnut. 

SHAMAN:  A priest of Shamanism; a wizard among the Shamanists. 

SHAMANIC:  Of or pertaining to Shamanism. 

SHAMANISM:  The type of religion which once prevalied among all the Ural- Altaic peoples (Tungusic, Mongol, and Turkish), and which still survives in various parts of Northern Asia. The Shaman, or wizard priest, deals with good as well as with evil spirits, especially the good spirits of ancestors. Encyc. Brit. 

SHAMANIST:  An adherent of Shamanism. 

SHAMBLE:  One of a succession of niches or platforms, one above another, to hold ore which is thrown successively from platform to platform, and thus raised to a higher level.  2. pl.  A place where butcher's meat is sold. As summer flies are in the shambles. Shak.  3. pl.  A place for slaughtering animals for meat. To make a shambles of the parliament house. Shak. 

SHAMBLE:  To walk awkwardly and unsteadily, as if the knees were weak; to shuffle along. 

SHAMBLING:  Characterized by an awkward, irregular pace; as, a shambling trot; shambling legs. 

SHAMBLING:  An awkward, irregular gait. 

SHAME:  To be ashamed; to feel shame. [R.] I do shame To think of what a noble strain you are. Shak. 

SHAMEFACED:  Easily confused or put out of countenance; diffident; bashful; modest. Your shamefaced virtue shunned the people's prise. Dryden.  Note: Shamefaced was once shamefast, shamefacedness was shamefastness, like steadfast and steadfastness; but the ordinary manifestations of shame being by the face, have brought it to its present orthography. Trench.  -- Shame"faced, adv.  -- Shame"faced`ness, n. 

SHAMEFAST:  Modest; shamefaced.  -- Shame"fast*ly, adv.  -- Shame"fast*ness, n. [Archaic] See Shamefaced. Shamefast she was in maiden shamefastness. Chaucer. [Conscience] is a blushing shamefast spirit. Shak. Modest apparel with shamefastness. 1 Tim. ii. 9 (Rev. Ver.). 

SHAMELESS:  Shameless. Shak. 

SHAMER:  One who, or that which, disgraces, or makes ashamed. Beau & Fl. 

SHAMMER:  One who shams; an impostor. Johnson. 

SHAMMY:  The chamois.  2. A soft, pliant leather, prepared originally from the skin of the chamois, but now made also from the skin of the sheep, goat, kid, deer, and calf. See Shamoying. [Written also chamois, shamoy, and shamois.]  SHAMOIS; SHAMOY Sham"ois, Sham"oy, n.  See Shammy. 

SHAMOYING:  A process used in preparing certain kinds of leather, which consists in frizzing the skin, and working oil into it to supply the place of the astringent (tannin, alum, or the like) ordinarily used in tanning. 

SHAMPOO:  The act of shampooing. 

SHAMPOOER:  One who shampoos. 

SHAMROCK:  A trifoliate plant used as a national emblem by the Irish. The legend is that St. Patrick once plucked a leaf of it for use in illustrating the doctrine of the trinity.  Note: The original plant was probably a kind of wood sorrel (Oxalis Acetocella); but now the name is given to the white clover (Trifolium repens), and the black medic (Medicago lupulina). 

SHANDRYDAN:  A jocosely depreciative name for a vehicle. [Ireland] 

SHANDYGAFF:  A mixture of strong beer and ginger beer. [Eng.] 

SHANGHAI:  To intoxicate and ship (a person) as a sailor while in this condition. [Written also shanghae.] [Slang, U.S.] 

SHANGHAI:  A large and tall breed of domestic fowl. 

SHANK:  See Chank. 

SHANK:  The space between two channels of the Doric triglyph. Gwilt.  4. (Founding)  A large ladle for molten metal, fitted with long bars for handling it.  5. (Print.)  The body of a type.  6. (Shoemaking)  The part of the sole beneath the instep connecting the broader front part with the heel.  7. (Zoöl.)  A wading bird with long legs; as, the green-legged shank, or knot; the yellow shank, or tattler; -- called also shanks.  8. pl.  Flat-nosed pliers, used by opticians for nipping off the edges of pieces of glass to make them round. Shank painter (Naut.), a short rope or chain which holds the shank of an anchor against the side of a vessel when it is secured for a voyage.  -- To ride shank's mare, to go on foot; to walk. 

SHANK:  To fall off, as a leaf, flower, or capsule, on account of disease affecting the supporting footstalk; -- usually followed by off. Darwin. 

SHANKBEER:  See Schenkbeer. 

SHANKED:  Having a shank. 

SHANKER:  See Chancre. 

SHANNY:  The European smooth blenny (Blennius pholis). It is olive-green with irregular black spots, and without appendages on the head.  SHAN'T Shan't.  A contraction of shall not. [Colloq.] 

SHANTY:  Jaunty; showy. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHANTY:  A small, mean dwelling; a rough, slight building for temporary use; a hut. 

SHANTY:  To inhabit a shanty. S. H. Hammond. 

SHAPE:  To suit; to be adjusted or conformable. [R.] Shak. 

SHAPELESS:  Destitute of shape or regular form; wanting symmetry of dimensions; misshapen; -- opposed to Ant: shapely.  -- Shape"less*ness, n. The shapeless rock, or hanging precipice. Pope. 

SHAPELINESS:  The quality or state of being shapely. 

SHAPOO:  The oörial. 

SHAPS:  Chaparajos. [Western U. S.]  A pair of gorgeous buckskin shaps, embroidered up the sides and adorned with innumerable ermine skins. The Century. 

SHARD:  A plant; chard. [Obs.] Dryden. 

SHARD:  The hard wing case of a beetle. They are his shards, and he their beetle. Shak.  3. A gap in a fence. [Obs.] Stanyhurst.  4. A boundary; a division. [Obs. & R.] Spenser.  SHARD-BORNE Shard"-borne`, a.  Borne on shards or scaly wing cases. "The shard-borne beetle." Shak. 

SHARDED:  Having elytra, as a beetle. 

SHARDY:  Having, or consisting of, shards. 

SHARE:  To have part; to receive a portion; to partake, enjoy, or suffer with others. A right of inheritance gave every one a title to share in the goods of his father. Locke. 

SHAREBEAM:  The part of the plow to which the share is attached. 

SHAREBONE:  The public bone. 

SHAREBROKER:  A broker who deals in railway or other shares and securities. 

SHAREHOLDER:  One who holds or owns a share or shares in a joint fund or property. 

SHARER:  One who shares; a participator; a partaker; also, a divider; a distributer. 

SHAREWORT:  A composite plant (Aster Tripolium) growing along the seacoast of Europe. 

SHARK:  Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes of the order Plagiostomi, found in all seas.  Note: Some sharks, as the basking shark and the whale shark, grow to an enormous size, the former becoming forty feet or more, and the latter sixty feet or more, in length. Most of them are harmless to man, but some are exceedingly voracious. The man-eating sharks mostly belong to the genera Carcharhinus, Carcharodon, and related genera. They have several rows of large sharp teeth with serrated edges, as the great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias, or Rondeleti) of tropical seas, and the great blue shark (Carcharhinus glaucus) of all tropical and temperate seas. The former sometimes becomes thirty-six feet long, and is the most voracious and dangerous species known. The rare man-eating shark of the United States coast (Charcarodon Atwoodi) is thought by some to be a variety, or the young, of C. carcharias. The dusky shark (Carcharhinus obscurus), and the smaller blue shark (C. caudatus), both common species on the coast of the United States, are of moderate size and not dangerous. They feed on shellfish and bottom fishes.  2. A rapacious, artful person; a sharper. [Colloq.]  3. Trickery; fraud; petty rapine; as, to live upon the shark. [Obs.] South. Baskin shark, Liver shark, Nurse shark, Oil shark, Sand shark, Tiger shark, etc. See under Basking, Liver, etc. See also Dogfish, Houndfish, Notidanian, and Tope.  -- Gray shark, the sand shark.  -- Hammer-headed shark. See Hammerhead.  -- Port Jackson shark. See Cestraciont.  -- Shark barrow, the eggcase of a shark; a sea purse.  -- Shark ray. Same as Angel fish (a), under Angel.  -- Thrasher shark, or Thresher shark, a large, voracious shark. See Thrasher.  -- Whale shark, a huge harmless shark (Rhinodon typicus) of the Indian Ocean. It becomes sixty feet or more in length, but has very small teeth. 

SHARK:  To pick or gather indiscriminately or covertly. [Obs.] Shak. 

SHARKER:  One who lives by sharking. 

SHARKING:  Petty rapine; trick; also, seeking a livelihood by shifts and dishonest devices. 

SHAROCK:  An East Indian coin of the value of 12 

SHARP:  Uttered in a whisper, or with the breath alone, without voice, as certain consonants, such as p, k, t, f; surd; nonvocal; aspirated.  Note: Sharp is often used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, sharp-cornered, sharp-edged, sharp-pointed, sharp- tasted, sharp-visaged, etc. Sharp practice, the getting of an advantage, or the attempt to do so, by a tricky expedient.  -- To brace sharp, or To sharp up (Naut.), to turn the yards to the most oblique position possible, that the ship may lie well up to the wind.  Syn.  -- Keen; acute; piercing; penetrating; quick; sagacious; discerning; shrewd; witty; ingenious; sour; acid; tart; pungent; acrid; severe; poignant; biting; acrimonious; sarcastic; cutting; bitter; painful; afflictive; violent; harsh; fierce; ardent; fiery. 

SHARP:  Same as Middlings, 1.  6. An expert. [Slang] 

SHARP:  To raise above the proper pitch; to elevate the tone of; especially, to raise a half step, or semitone, above the natural tone. 

SHARP:  To sing above the proper pitch.  SHARP-CUT Sharp-cut`, a.  Cut sharply or definitely, or so as to make a clear, well- defined impression, as the lines of an engraved plate, and the like; clear-cut; hence, having great distinctness; well-defined; clear. 

SHARPEN:  To make sharp. Specifically: (a) To give a keen edge or fine point to; to make sharper; as, to sharpen an ax, or the teeth of a saw. (b) To render more quick or acute in perception; to make more ready or ingenious. The air . . . sharpened his visual ray To objects distant far. Milton. He that wrestles with us strengthens our nerves and sharpens our skill. Burke.  (c) To make more eager; as, to sharpen men's desires. Epicurean cooks Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite. Shak.  (d) To make more pungent and intense; as, to sharpen a pain or disease. (e) To make biting, sarcastic, or severe. "Sharpen each word." E. Smith. (f) To render more shrill or piercing. Inclosures not only preserve sound, but increase and sharpen it. Bacon.  (g) To make more tart or acid; to make sour; as, the rays of the sun sharpen vinegar. (h) (Mus. ) To raise, as a sound, by means of a sharp; to apply a sharp to. 

SHARPEN:  To grow or become sharp. 

SHARPER:  A person who bargains closely, especially, one who cheats in bargains; a swinder; also, a cheating gamester. Sharpers, as pikes, prey upon their own kind. L'Estrange.  Syn.  -- Swindler; cheat; deceiver; trickster; rogue. See Swindler. 

SHARPIE:  A long, sharp, flat-bottomed boat, with one or two masts carrying a triangular sail. They are often called Fair Haven sharpies, after the place on the coast of Connecticut where they originated. [Local, U.S.] 

SHARPLING:  A stickleback. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHARPLY:  In a sharp manner,; keenly; acutely. They are more sharply to be chastised and reformed than the rude Irish. Spenser. The soldiers were sharply assailed with wants. Hayward. You contract your eye when you would see sharply. Bacon. 

SHARPNESS:  The quality or condition of being sharp; keenness; acuteness. 

SHARPSAW:  The great titmouse; -- so called from its harsh call notes. [Prov. Eng.]  SHARP-SET Sharp"-set`, a.  Eager in appetite or desire of gratification; affected by keen hunger; ravenous; as, an eagle or a lion sharp-set. The town is sharp-set on new plays. Pope. 

SHARPSHOOTER:  One skilled in shooting at an object with exactness; a good marksman. 

SHARPSHOOTING:  A shooting with great precision and effect; hence, a keen contest of wit or argument.  SHARP-SIGHTED Sharp"-sight`ed, a.  Having quick or acute sight; -- used literally and figuratively.  -- Sharp`-sight`ed*ness, n. 

SHARPTAIL:  Having an acute or nicely discerning mind. 

SHASTA:  A mountain peak, etc., in California.  SHASTA DAISY Shasta daisy.  A large-flowered garden variety of the oxeye daisy.  SHASTA FIR Shasta fir.  A Californian fir (Abies shastensis).  SHASTA SAM Shasta Sam. (Card Playing)  A game like California Jack, except that the pack drawn from is turned face down.  SHASTER; SHASTRA Shas"ter, Shas"tra, n. Etym: [Skr. castra an order or command, a sacred book, fr. cas to order, instruct, govern. Cf. Sastra.]  A treatise for authoritative instruction among the Hindoos; a book of institutes; especially, a treatise explaining the Vedas. [Written also sastra.] 

SHATHMONT:  A shaftment. [Scot.] 

SHATTER:  To be broken into fragments; to fal Some fragile bodies break but where the force is; some shatter and fly in many places. Bacon. 

SHATTER:  A fragment of anything shattered; -- used chiefly or soley in the phrase into shatters; as, to break a glass into shatters. Swift.  SHATTER-BRAINED; SHATTER-PATED Shat"ter-brained`, Shat"ter-pat`ed, a.  Disordered or wandering in intellect; hence, heedless; wild. J. Goodman. 

SHATTERY:  Easily breaking into pieces; not compact; loose of texture; brittle; as, shattery spar. 

SHAVE:  obs. p. p. of Shave. Chaucer. His beard was shave as nigh as ever he can. Chaucer. 

SHAVE:  To use a razor for removing the beard; to cut closely; hence, to be hard and severe in a bargain; to practice extortion; to cheat. 

SHAVELING:  A man shaved; hence, a monk, or other religious; -- used in contempt. I am no longer a shaveling than while my frock is on my back. Sir W. Scott. 

SHAVER:  A tool or machine for shaving. A note shaver, a person who buys notes at a discount greater than the legal rate of interest. [Cant, U.S.] 

SHAW:  The leaves and tops of vegetables, as of potatoes, turnips, etc. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

SHAWFOWL:  The representation or image of a fowl made by fowlers to shoot at. Johnson. 

SHAWL:  A square or oblong cloth of wool, cotton, silk, or other textile or netted fabric, used, especially by women, as a loose covering for the neck and shoulders. India shawl, a kind of rich shawl made in India from the wool of the Cashmere goat. It is woven in pieces, which are sewed together.  -- Shawl goat (Zoöl.), the Cashmere goat. 

SHAWL:  To wrap in a shawl. Thackeray. 

SHAWM:  A wind instrument of music, formerly in use, supposed to have resembled either the clarinet or the hautboy in form. [Written also shalm, shaum.] Otway. Even from the shrillest shaum unto the cornamute. Drayton. 

SHAWNEES:  A tribe of North American Indians who occupied Western New York and part of Ohio, but were driven away and widely dispersed by the Iroquois. 

SHAY:  A chaise. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 

SHEADING:  A tithing, or division, in the Isle of Man, in which there is a coroner, or chief constable. The island is divided into six sheadings. 

SHEAF:  A sheave. [R.] 

SHEAF:  To gather and bind into a sheaf; to make into sheaves; as, to sheaf wheat. 

SHEAF:  To collect and bind cut grain, or the like; to make sheaves. They that reap must sheaf and bind. Shak. 

SHEAFY:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, a sheaf or sheaves; resembling a sheaf. 

SHEAL:  Same as Sheeling. [Scot.] 

SHEAL:  To put under a sheal or shelter. [Scot.] 

SHEAL:  To take the husks or pods off from; to shell; to empty of its contents, as a husk or a pod. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Jamieson. That's a shealed peascod. Shak. 

SHEAL:  A shell or pod. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] 

SHEALING:  The outer husk, pod, or shell, as of oats, pease, etc.; sheal; shell. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SHEALING:  Same as Sheeling. [Scot.] 

SHEAR:  To produce a change of shape in by a shear. See Shear, n., 4. 

SHEAR:  An action, resulting from applied forces, which tends to cause two contiguous parts of a body to slide relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact; -- also called shearing stress, and tangential stress.  4. (Mech.)  A strain, or change of shape, of an elastic body, consisting of an extension in one direction, an equal compression in a perpendicular direction, with an unchanged magnitude in the third direction. Shear blade, one of the blades of shears or a shearing machine.  -- Shear hulk. See under Hulk.  -- Shear steel, a steel suitable for shears, scythes, and other cutting instruments, prepared from fagots of blistered steel by repeated heating, rolling, and tilting, to increase its malleability and fineness of texture. 

SHEAR:  To become more or less completely divided, as a body under the action of forces, by the sliding of two contiguous parts relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact. 

SHEARBILL:  The black skimmer. See Skimmer. 

SHEARD:  See Shard. [Obs.] 

SHEARING:  The process of making a vertical side cutting in working into a face of coal. Shearing machine. (a) A machine with blades, or rotary disks, for dividing plates or bars of metal. (b) A machine for shearing cloth. 

SHEARLING:  A sheep but once sheared. 

SHEARMAN:  One whose occupation is to shear cloth. 

SHEARN:  Dung; excrement. [Obs.] [Written also shern.] Holland. 

SHEARS:  The bedpiece of a machine tool, upon which a table or slide rest is secured; as, the shears of a lathe or planer. See Illust. under Lathe. Rotary shears. See under Rotary.  SHEAR STEEL Shear steel.  See under Shear. 

SHEARWATER:  Any one of numerous species of long-winged oceanic birds of the genus Puffinus and related genera. They are allied to the petrels, but are larger. The Manx shearwater (P. Anglorum), the dusky shearwater (P. obscurus), and the greater shearwater (P. major), are well-known species of the North Atlantic. See Hagdon. 

SHEATFISH:  A European siluroid fish (Silurus glanis) allied to the cat- fishes. It is the largest fresh-water fish of Europe, sometimes becoming six feet or more in length. See Siluroid. 

SHEATHBILL:  Either one of two species of birds composing the genus Chionis, and family Chionidæ, native of the islands of the Antarctic.seas.  Note: They are related to the gulls and the plovers, but more nearly to the latter. The base of the bill is covered with a saddle-shaped horny sheath, and the toes are only slightly webbed. The plumage of both species is white. 

SHEATHED:  Invested by a sheath, or cylindrical membranaceous tube, which is the base of the leaf, as the stalk or culm in grasses; vaginate. 

SHEATHER:  One who sheathes. 

SHEATHFISH:  Same as Sheatfish. 

SHEATHING:  from Sheathe. Inclosing with a sheath; as, the sheathing leaves of grasses; the sheathing stipules of many polygonaceous plants. 

SHEATHING:  That which sheathes. Specifically: (a) The casing or covering of a ship's bottom and sides; the materials for such covering; as, copper sheathing. (b) (Arch.) The first covering of boards on the outside wall of a frame house or on a timber roof; also, the material used for covering; ceiling boards in general. 

SHEATHLESS:  Without a sheath or case for covering; unsheathed.  SHEATH-WINGED Sheath"-winged`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having elytra, or wing cases, as a beetle. 

SHEATHY:  Forming or resembling a sheath or case. Sir T. Browne.  SHEA TREE She"a tree`. (Bot.)  An African sapotaceous tree (Bassia, or Butyrospermum, Parkii), from the seeds of which a substance resembling butter is obtained; the African butter tree. 

SHEAVE:  A wheel having a groove in the rim for a rope to work in, and set in a block, mast, or the like; the wheel of a pulley. Sheave hole, a channel cut in a mast, yard, rail, or other timber, in which to fix a sheave. 

SHEAVE:  To gather and bind into a sheaf or sheaves; hence, to collect. Ashmole. 

SHEAVED:  Made of straw. [Obs.] Shak. 

SHEBANDER:  A harbor master, or ruler of a port, in the East Indies. [Written also shebunder.] 

SHEBANG:  A jocosely depreciative name for a dwelling or shop. [Slang,U.S.] 

SHEBEEN:  A low public house; especially, a place where spirits and other excisable liquors are illegally and privately sold. [Ireland] 

SHECHINAH:  See Shekinah. 

SHECKLATON:  A kind of gilt leather. See Checklaton. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SHED:  A slight or temporary structure built to shade or shelter something; a structure usually open in front; an outbuilding; a hut; as, a wagon shed; a wood shed. The first Aletes born in lowly shed. Fairfax. Sheds of reeds which summer's heat repel. Sandys. 

SHED:  To divide, as the warp threads, so as to form a shed, or passageway, for the shuttle. 

SHED:  The passageway between the threads of the warp through which the shuttle is thrown, having a sloping top and bottom made by raising and lowering the alternate threads. 

SHEDDER:  A crab in the act of casting its shell, or immediately afterwards while still soft; -- applied especially to the edible crabs, which are most prized while in this state. 

SHEDDING:  The chaffinch; -- so named from its call note. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHEELING:  A hut or small cottage in an expessed or a retired place (as on a mountain or at the seaside) such as is used by shepherds, fishermen, sportsmen, etc.; a summer cottage; also, a shed. [Written also sheel, shealing, sheiling, etc.] [Scot.] 

SHEELY:  Same as Sheelfa. 

SHEEN:  Bright; glittering; radiant; fair; showy; sheeny. [R., except in poetry.] This holy maiden, that is so bright and sheen. Chaucer. Up rose each warrier bold and brave, Glistening in filed steel and armor sheen. Fairfax. 

SHEEN:  To shine; to glisten. [Poetic] This town, That, sheening far, celestial seems to be. Byron. 

SHEEN:  Brightness; splendor; glitter. "Throned in celestial sheen." Milton. 

SHEENLY:  Brightly. [R.] Mrs. Browning. 

SHEENY:  Bright; shining; radiant; sheen. "A sheeny summer morn." Tennyson. 

SHEEP:  Any one of several species of ruminants of the genus Ovis, native of the higher mountains of both hemispheres, but most numerous in Asia.  Note: The domestic sheep (Ovis aries) varies much in size, in the length and texture of its wool, the form and size of its horns, the length of its tail, etc. It was domesticated in prehistoric ages, and many distinct breeds have been produced; as the merinos, celebrated for their fine wool; the Cretan sheep, noted for their long horns; the fat-tailed, or Turkish, sheep, remarkable for the size and fatness of the tail, which often has to be supported on trucks; the Southdowns, in which the horns are lacking; and an Asiatic breed which always has four horns.  2. A weak, bashful, silly fellow. Ainsworth.  3. pl.  Fig.: The people of God, as being under the government and protection of Christ, the great Shepherd. Rocky mountain sheep.(Zoöl.) See Bighorn.  -- Maned sheep. (Zoöl.) See Aoudad.  -- Sheep bot (Zoöl.), the larva of the sheep botfly. See Estrus.  -- Sheep dog (Zoöl.), a shepherd dog, or collie.  -- Sheep laurel (Bot.), a small North American shrub (Kalmia angustifolia) with deep rose-colored flowers in corymbs.  -- Sheep pest (Bot.), an Australian plant (Acæna ovina) related to the burnet. The fruit is covered with barbed spines, by which it adheres to the wool of sheep.  -- Sheep run, an extensive tract of country where sheep range and graze.  -- Sheep's beard (Bot.), a cichoraceous herb (Urospermum Dalechampii) of Southern Europe; -- so called from the conspicuous pappus of the achenes.  -- Sheep's bit (Bot.), a European herb (Jasione montana) having much the appearance of scabious.  -- Sheep pox (Med.), a contagious disease of sheep, characterixed by the development of vesicles or pocks upon the skin.  -- Sheep scabious. (Bot.) Same as Sheep's bit.  -- Sheep shears, shears in which the blades form the two ends of a steel bow, by the elasticity of which they open as often as pressed together by the hand in cutting; -- so called because used to cut off the wool of sheep.  -- Sheep sorrel. (Bot.), a prerennial herb (Rumex Acetosella) growing naturally on poor, dry, gravelly soil. Its leaves have a pleasant acid taste like sorrel.  -- Sheep's-wool (Zoöl.), the highest grade of Florida commercial sponges (Spongia equina, variety gossypina).  -- Sheep tick (Zoöl.), a wingless parasitic insect (Melophagus ovinus) belonging to the Diptera. It fixes its proboscis in the skin of the sheep and sucks the blood, leaving a swelling. Called also sheep pest, and sheep louse.  -- Sheep walk, a pasture for sheep; a sheep run.  -- Wild sheep. (Zoöl.) See Argali, Mouflon, and Oörial. 

SHEEPBACK:  A rounded knoll of rock resembling the back of a sheep.  -- produced by glacial action. Called also roche moutonnée; -- usually in the plural. 

SHEEPBERRY:  The edible fruit of a small North American tree of the genus Viburnum (V. Lentago), having white flowers in flat cymes; also, the tree itself. Called also nannyberry. 

SHEEPBITE:  To bite or nibble like a sheep; hence, to practice petty thefts. [Obs.] Shak. 

SHEEPBITER:  One who practices petty thefts. [Obs.] Shak. There are political sheepbiters as well as pastoral; betrayers of public trusts as well as of private. L'Estrange.  SHEEPCOT; SHEEPCOTE Sheep"cot`, Sheep"cote`, n.  A small inclosure for sheep; a pen; a fold.  SHEEP-FACED Sheep"-faced`, a.  Over-bashful; sheepish. 

SHEEPFOLD:  A fold or pen for sheep; a place where sheep are collected or confined.  SHEEP-HEADED Sheep"-head`ed, a.  Silly; simple-minded; stupid. Taylor (1630) 

SHEEPHOOK:  A hook fastened to pole, by which shepherds lay hold on the legs or necks of their sheep; a shepherd's crook. Dryden. 

SHEEPMASTER:  A keeper or feeder of sheep; also, an owner of sheep. 2 Kings iii. 4. 

SHEEPRACK:  The starling.  SHEEP'S-EYE Sheep's"-eye`, n.  A modest, diffident look; a loving glance; -- commonly in the plural. I saw her just now give him the languishing eye, as they call it; . . . of old called the sheep's-eye. Wycherley.  SHEEP'S-FOOT Sheep's-foot`, n.  A printer's tool consisting of a metal bar formed into a hammer head at one end and a claw at the other, -- used as a lever and hammer. 

SHEEPSHANK:  A hitch by which a rope may be temporarily shortened. 

SHEEPSHEAD:  A large and valuable sparoid food fish (Archosargus, or Diplodus, probatocephalus) found on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It often weighs from ten to twelve pounds.  Note: The name is also locally, in a loose way, applied to various other fishes, as the butterfish, the fresh-water drumfish, the parrot fish, the porgy, and the moonfish.  SHEEP-SHEARER Sheep"-shear`er, n.  One who shears, or cuts off the wool from, sheep.  SHEEP-SHEARING Sheep"-shear`ing, n.  1. Act of shearing sheep.  2. A feast at the time of sheep-shearing. Shak. 

SHEEPSPLIT:  A split of a sheepskin; one of the thin sections made by splitting a sheepskin with a cutting knife or machine. 

SHEEPY:  Resembling sheep; sheepish. Testament of Love. 

SHEER:  Clean; quite; at once. [Obs.] Milton. 

SHEER:  To shear. [Obs.] Dryden. 

SHEER:  To decline or deviate from the line of the proper course; to turn aside; to swerve; as, a ship sheers from her course; a horse sheers at a bicycle. To sheer off, to turn or move aside to a distance; to move away.  -- To sheer up, to approach obliquely. 

SHEER:  Shears See Shear. Sheer batten (Shipbuilding), a long strip of wood to guide the carpenters in following the sheer plan.  -- Sheer boom, a boom slanting across a stream to direct floating logs to one side.  -- Sheer hulk. See Shear hulk, under Hulk.  -- Sheer plan, or Sheer draught (Shipbuilding), a projection of the lines of a vessel on a vertical longitudinal plane passing through the middle line of the vessel.  -- Sheer pole (Naut.), an iron rod lashed to the shrouds just above the dead-eyes and parallel to the ratlines.  -- Sheer strake (Shipbuilding), the strake under the gunwale on the top side. Totten.  -- To break sheer (Naut.), to deviate from sheer, and risk fouling the anchor. 

SHEERLY:  At once; absolutely. [Obs.] 

SHEERWATER:  The shearwater. 

SHEET:  In general, a large, broad piece of anything thin, as paper, cloth, etc.; a broad, thin portion of any substance; an expanded superficies. Specifically: (a) A broad piece of cloth, usually linen or cotton, used for wrapping the body or for a covering; especially, one used as an article of bedding next to the body. He fell into a trance, and saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending unto him, as it had been a great sheet knit at the four corners. Acts x. 10, 11. If I do die before thee, prithee, shroud me In one of those same sheets. Shak.  (b) A broad piece of paper, whether folded or unfolded, whether blank or written or printed upon; hence, a letter; a newspaper, etc. (c) A single signature of a book or a pamphlet; in pl., the book itself. To this the following sheets are intended for a full and distinct answer. Waterland.  (d) A broad, thinly expanded portion of metal or other substance; as, a sheet of copper, of glass, or the like; a plate; a leaf. (e) A broad expanse of water, or the like. "The two beautiful sheets of water." Macaulay. (f) A sail. Dryden. (g) (Geol.) An extensive bed of an eruptive rock intruded between, or overlying, other strata.  2. Etym: [AS. sceáta. See the Etymology above.] (Naut.) (a) A rope or chain which regulates the angle of adjustment of a sail in relation in relation to the wind; -- usually attached to the lower corner of a sail, or to a yard or a boom. (b) pl.  The space in the forward or the after part of a boat where there are no rowers; as, fore sheets; stern sheets.  Note: Sheet is often used adjectively, or in combination, to denote that the substance to the name of which it is prefixed is in the form of sheets, or thin plates or leaves; as, sheet brass, or sheet-brass; sheet glass, or sheet-glass; sheet gold, or sheet-gold; sheet iron, or sheet-iron, etc. A sheet in the wind, half drunk. [Sailors' Slang] -- Both sheets in the wind, very drunk. [Sailors' Slang] -- In sheets, lying flat or expanded; not folded, or folded but not bound; -- said especially of printed sheets.  -- Sheet bend (Naut.), a bend or hitch used for temporarily fastening a rope to the bight of another rope or to an eye.  -- Sheet lightning, Sheet piling, etc. See under Lightning, Piling, etc. 

SHEET:  A large anchor stowed on shores outside the waist of a vessel; -- called also waist anchor. See the Note under Anchor.  2. Anything regarded as a sure support or dependence in danger; the best hope or refuge.  SHEET CABLE Sheet" ca"ble. (Naut.)  The cable belonging to the sheet anchor.  SHEET CHAIN Sheet" chain". (Naut.)  A chain sheet cable. 

SHEETFUL:  Enough to fill a sheet; as much as a sheet can hold. 

SHEETING:  A lining of planks or boards (rarely of metal) for protecting an embankment.  3. The act or process of forming into sheets, or flat pieces; also, material made into sheets. 

SHEIK:  The head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village. The name is also applied to Mohammedan ecclesiastics of a high grade. [Written also scheik, shaik, sheikh.]  SHEIL; SHEILING Sheil, Sheil"ing, n.  See Sheeling. 

SHEKEL:  A jocose term for money. 

SHEKINAH:  The visible majesty of the Divine Presence, especially when resting or dwelling between the cherubim on the mercy seat, in the Tabernacle, or in the Temple of Solomon; -- a term used in the Targums and by the later Jews, and adopted by Christians. [Written also Shechinah.] Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.) 

SHELD:  Variegated; spotted; speckled; piebald. [Prov. Eng.]  SHELDAFLE; SHELDAPLE Sheld"a*fle, Sheld"a*ple, n. Etym: [Perhaps for sheld dapple. Cf. Sheldrake.] (Zoöl.)  A chaffinch. [Written also sheldapple, and shellapple.] 

SHELDFOWL:  The common sheldrake. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHELDRAKE:  Any one of several species of large Old World ducks of the genus Tadorna and allied genera, especially the European and Asiatic species. (T. cornuta, or tadorna), which somewhat resembles a goose in form and habit, but breeds in burrows.  Note: It has the head and neck greenish black, the breast, sides, and forward part of the back brown, the shoulders and middle of belly black, the speculum green, and the bill and frontal bright red. Called also shelduck, shellduck, sheldfowl, skeelduck, bergander, burrow duck, and links goose.  Note: The Australian sheldrake (Tadorna radja) has the head, neck, breast, flanks, and wing coverts white, the upper part of the back and a band on the breast deep chestnut, and the back and tail black. The chestnut sheldrake of Australia (Casarca tadornoides) is varied with black and chestnut, and has a dark green head and neck. The ruddy sheldrake, or Braminy duck (C. rutila), and the white-winged sheldrake (C. leucoptera), are related Asiatic species.  2. Any one of the American mergansers.  Note: The name is also loosely applied to other ducks, as the canvasback, and the shoveler. 

SHELDUCK:  The sheldrake. [Written also shellduck.] 

SHELF:  A flat tablet or ledge of any material set horizontally at a distance from the floor, to hold objects of use or ornament.  2. A sand bank in the sea, or a rock, or ledge of rocks, rendering the water shallow, and dangerous to ships. On the tawny sands and shelves. Milton. On the secret shelves with fury cast. Dryden.  3. (Mining)  A stratum lying in a very even manner; a flat, projecting layer of rock.  4. (Naut.)  A piece of timber running the whole length of a vessel inside the timberheads. D. Kemp. To lay on the shelf, to lay aside as unnecessary or useless; to dismiss; to discard. 

SHELL:  The hard calcareous or chitinous external covering of mollusks, crustaceans, and some other invertebrates. In some mollusks, as the cuttlefishes, it is internal, or concealed by the mantle. Also, the hard covering of some vertebrates, as the armadillo, the tortoise, and the like. (e) (Zoöl.) Hence, by extension, any mollusks having such a covering.  2. (Mil.)  A hollow projectile, of various shapes, adapted for a mortar or a cannon, and containing an explosive substance, ignited with a fuse or by percussion, by means of which the projectile is burst and its fragments scattered. See Bomb.  3. The case which holds the powder, or charge of powder and shot, used with breechloading small arms.  4. Any slight hollow structure; a framework, or exterior structure, regarded as not complete or filled in; as, the shell of a house.  5. A coarse kind of coffin; also, a thin interior coffin inclosed in a more substantial one. Knight.  6. An instrument of music, as a lyre, -- the first lyre having been made, it is said, by drawing strings over a tortoise shell. When Jubal struck the chorded shell. Dryden.  7. An engraved copper roller used in print works.  8. pl.  The husks of cacao seeds, a decoction of which is often used as a substitute for chocolate, cocoa, etc.  9. (Naut.)  The outer frame or case of a block within which the sheaves revolve.  10. A light boat the frame of which is covered with thin wood or with paper; as, a racing shell. Message shell, a bombshell inside of which papers may be put, in order to convey messages.  -- Shell bit, a tool shaped like a gouge, used with a brace in boring wood. See Bit, n., 3.  -- Shell button. (a) A button made of shell. (b) A hollow button made of two pieces, as of metal, one for the front and the other for the back, -- often covered with cloth, silk, etc.  -- Shell cameo, a cameo cut in shell instead of stone.  -- Shell flower. (Bot.) Same as Turtlehead.  -- Shell gland. (Zoöl.) (a) A glandular organ in which the rudimentary shell is formed in embryonic mollusks. (b) A glandular organ which secretes the eggshells of various worms, crustacea, mollusks, etc.  -- Shell gun, a cannon suitable for throwing shells.  -- Shell ibis (Zoöl.), the openbill of India.  -- Shell jacket, an undress military jacket.  -- Shell lime, lime made by burning the shells of shellfish.  -- Shell marl (Min.), a kind of marl characterized by an abundance of shells, or fragments of shells.  -- Shell meat, food consisting of shellfish, or testaceous mollusks. Fuller.  -- Shell mound. See under Mound.  -- Shell of a boiler, the exterior of a steam boiler, forming a case to contain the water and steam, often inclosing also flues and the furnace; the barrel of a cylindrical, or locomotive, boiler.  -- Shell road, a road of which the surface or bed is made of shells, as oyster shells.  -- Shell sand, minute fragments of shells constituting a considerable part of the seabeach in some places. 

SHELL:  See the Note under 2d Lac. 

SHELLAPPLE:  See Sheldafle. 

SHELLBARK:  A species of hickory (Carya alba) whose outer bark is loose and peeling; a shagbark; also, its nut. 

SHELLED:  Having a shell. 

SHELLER:  One who, or that which, shells; as, an oyster sheller; a corn sheller. 

SHELLFISH:  Any aquatic animal whose external covering consists of a shell, either testaceous, as in oysters, clams, and other mollusks, or crustaceous, as in lobsters and crabs. 

SHELLING:  Groats; hulled oats. Simmonds.  SHELL-LESS Shell"-less  , a. Having no shell. J. Burroughs. 

SHELLPROOF:  Capable of resisting bombs or other shells; bombproof. 

SHELLWORK:  Work composed of shells, or adorned with them. Cotgrave. 

SHELLY:  Abounding with shells; consisting of shells, or of a shell. "The shelly shore." Prior. Shrinks backward in his shelly cave. Shak. 

SHELTER:  To take shelter. There oft the Indian herdsman, shunning heat, Shelters in cool. Milton. 

SHELTERLESS:  Destitute of shelter or protection. Now sad and shelterless perhaps she lies. Rowe. 

SHELTERY:  Affording shelter. [R.]  SHELTIE; SHELTY Shel"tie, Shel"ty, n.  A Shetland pony. 

SHELVE:  To incline gradually; to be slopping; as, the bottom shelves from the shore. 

SHELVING:  Sloping gradually; inclining; as, a shelving shore. Shak. "Shelving arches." Addison. 

SHELVY:  Sloping gradually; shelving. The shore was shelving and shallow. Shak. 

SHEMITE:  A descendant of Shem.  SHEMITIC; SHEMITISH Shem*it"ic, Shem"i*tish, a.  Of or pertaining to Shem, the son of Noah, or his descendants. See Semitic. 

SHEMITISM:  See Semitism. 

SHENDFUL:  Destructive; ruinous; disgraceful. [Obs.] -- Shend"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

SHENDSHIP:  Harm; ruin; also, reproach; disgrace. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SHENT:  obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Shend, for shendeth. Chaucer. 

SHENT:  To shend. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SHEOL:  The place of departed spirits; Hades; also, the grave. For thou wilt not leave my soul to sheel. Ps. xvi. 10. (Rev. Ver.) 

SHEPEN:  A stable; a shippen. [Obs.] The shepne brenning with the blacke smoke. Chaucer. 

SHEPHERD:  To tend as a shepherd; to guard, herd, lead, or drive, as a shepherd. [Poetic] White, fleecy clouds . . . Shepherded by the slow, unwilling wind. Shelley. 

SHEPHERDESS:  A woman who tends sheep; hence, a rural lass. She put herself into the garb of a shepherdess. Sir P. Sidney. 

SHEPHERDIA:  A genus of shrubs having silvery scurfy leaves, and belonging to the same family as Elæagnus; also, any plant of this genus. See Buffalo berry, under Buffalo. 

SHEPHERDISH:  Resembling a shepherd; suiting a shepherd; pastoral. Sir T. Sidney. 

SHEPHERDISM:  Pastoral life or occupation. 

SHEPHERDLING:  A little shepherd. 

SHEPHERDLY:  Resembling, or becoming to, a shepherd; pastoral; rustic. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

SHEPSTER:  A seamstress. [Obs.] Caxton. 

SHERARDIZE:  To subject to the process of vapor galvanizing (which see, below). 

SHERD:  A fragment; -- now used only in composition, as in potsherd. See Shard. The thigh . . . which all in sherds it drove. Chapman.  SHEREEF; SHERIF Sher"eef, Sher"if, n. Etym: [Ar. sherif noble, holy, n., a prince.]  A member of an Arab princely family descended from Mohammed through his son-in-law Ali and daughter Fatima. The Grand Shereef is the governor of Mecca. 

SHERIAT:  The sacred law of the Turkish empire. 

SHERIFF:  The chief officer of a shire or county, to whom is intrusted the execution of the laws, the serving of judicial writs and processes, and the preservation of the peace.  Note: In England, sheriffs are appointed by the king. In the United States, sheriffs are elected by the legislature or by the citizens, or appointed and commissioned by the executive of the State. The office of sheriff in England is judicial and ministerial. In the United States, it is mainly ministerial. The sheriff, by himself or his deputies, executes civil and criminal process throughout the county, has charge of the jail and prisoners, attends courts, and keeps the peace. His judicial authority is generally confined to ascertaining damages on writs of inquiry and the like. Sheriff, in Scotland, called sheriff depute, is properly a judge, having also certain ministerial powers. Sheriff clerk is the clerk of the Sheriff's Court in Scotland. Sheriff's Court in London is a tribunal having cognizance of certain personal actions in that city. Wharton, Tomlins. Erskine.  SHERIFFALTY; SHERIFFDOM; SHERIFFRY; SHERIFFSHIP; SHERIFFWICK Sher"iff*al*ty, Sher"iff*dom, Sher"iff*ry, Sher"iff*ship, Sher"iff*wick, n.  The office or jurisdiction of sheriff. See Shrievalty. 

SHERN:  See Shearn. [Obs.] 

SHERRIS:  Sherry. [Obs.] Shak. 

SHERRY:  A Spanish light-colored dry wine, made in Andalusia. As prepared for commerce it is colored a straw color or a deep amber by mixing with it cheap wine boiled down. Sherry cobbler, a beverage prepared with sherry wine, water, lemon or orange, sugar, ice, etc., and usually imbided through a straw or a glass tube. 

SHERRYVALLIES:  Trousers or overalls of thick cloth or leather, buttoned on the outside of each leg, and generally worn to protect other trousers when riding on horseback. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett. 

SHET:  To shut. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. 

SHETE:  To shoot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SHETH:  The part of a plow which projects downward beneath the beam, for holding the share and other working parts; -- also called standard, or post.  SHETLAND PONY Shet"land po"ny.  One of a small, hardy breed of horses, with long mane and tail, which originated in the Shetland Islands; a sheltie. 

SHEW:  See Show. 

SHEW:  Show. [Obs. except in shewbread.] 

SHEWBREAD:  See Showbread. 

SHEWEL:  A scarecrow. [Obs.] Trench. 

SHEWER:  One who shews. See Shower. 

SHEWN:  p. p. of Shew. 

SHIAH:  Same as Shiite. 

SHIBBOLETH:  Also in an extended sense. The th, with its twofold value, is . . . the shibboleth of foreigners. Earle.  2. Hence, the criterion, test, or watchword of a party; a party cry or pet phrase. 

SHICER:  An unproductive mine; a duffer. [Australia] 

SHIDE:  A thin board; a billet of wood; a splinter. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHIE:  See Shy, to throw. 

SHIED:  imp. & p. p. of Shy. 

SHIEL:  A sheeling. [Scot.] Burns. 

SHIELD:  In lichens, a Hardened cup or disk surrounded by a rim and containing the fructification, or asci.  5. (Her.)  The escutcheon or field on which are placed the bearings in coats of arms. Cf. Lozenge. See Illust. of Escutcheon.  6. (Mining & Tunneling)  A framework used to protect workmen in making an adit under ground, and capable of being pushed along as excavation progresses.  7. A spot resembling, or having the form of, a shield. "Bespotted as with shields of red and black." Spenser.  8. A coin, the old French crown, or écu, having on one side the figure of a shield. [Obs.] Chaucer. Shield fern (Bot.), any fern of the genus Aspidium, in which the fructifications are covered with shield-shaped indusia; -- called also wood fern. See Illust. of Indusium. 

SHIELD:  Any small moth of the genus Aspidisca, whose larva makes a shieldlike covering for itself out of bits of leaves. 

SHIELDDRAKE:  A sheldrake. 

SHIELDLESS:  Destitute of a shield, or of protection.  -- Shield"less*ly, adv.  -- Shield"less*ness, n. 

SHIELDTAIL:  Any species of small burrowing snakes of the family Uropeltidæ, native of Ceylon and Southern Asia. They have a small mouth which can not be dilated. 

SHIELING:  A hut or shelter for shepherds of fishers. See Sheeling. [Scot.] 

SHIFT:  To slip to one side of a ship, so as to destroy the equilibrum; -- said of ballast or cargo; as, the cargo shifted. 

SHIFT:  A breaking off and dislocation of a seam; a fault.  6. (Mus.)  A change of the position of the hand on the finger board, in playing the violin. To make shift, to contrive or manage in an exigency. "I shall make shift to go without him." Shak. [They] made a shift to keep their own in Ireland. Milton. 

SHIFTABLE:  Admitting of being shifted. 

SHIFTER:  An assistant to the ship's cook in washing, steeping, and shifting the salt provisions.  3. (Mach.) (a) An arrangement for shifting a belt sidewise from one pulley to another. (b) (Knitting Mach.) A wire for changing a loop from one needle to another, as in narrowing, etc. 

SHIFTINESS:  The quality or state of being shifty. Diplomatic shiftiness and political versatility. J. A. Syminds. 

SHIFTINGLY:  In a shifting manner. 

SHIFTLESS:  Destitute of expedients, or not using successful expedients; characterized by failure, especially by failure to provide for one's own support, through negligence or incapacity; hence, lazy; improvident; thriftless; as, a shiftless fellow; shiftless management.  -- Shift"less*ly, adv.  -- Shift"less*ness, n. 

SHIFTY:  Full of, or ready with, shifts; fertile in expedients or contrivance. Wright. Shifty and thrifty as old Greek or modern Scot, there were few things he could not invent, and perhaps nothing he could not endure. C. Kingsley.  SHIITE; SHIAH Shi"ite, Shi"ah, n. Etym: [Ar. shi'aia follower of the sect of Ali, fr. shi'at, shi'ah, a multitude following one another in pursuit of the same object, the sect of Ali, fr. sha'a to follow.]  A member of that branch of the Mohammedans to which the Persians belong. They reject the first three caliphs, and consider Ali as being the first and only rightful successor of Mohammed. They do not acknowledge the Sunna, or body of traditions respecting Mohammed, as any part of the law, and on these accounts are treated as heretics by the Sunnites, or orthodox Mohammedans.  SHIKAREE; SHIKARI Shi*ka"ree, Shi*ka"ri n. Etym: [Hind.]  A sportsman; esp., a native hunter. [India] 

SHILF:  Straw. [Obs.] 

SHILL:  To shell. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SHILL:  To put under cover; to sheal. [Prov.ng.] Brockett.  SHILLALAH; SHILLELAH Shil*la"lah, Shil*le"lah, n.  An oaken sapling or cudgel; any cudgel; -- so called from Shillelagh, a place in Ireland of that name famous for its oaks. [Irish] [Written also shillaly, and shillely.] 

SHILLING:  In an irresolute, undecided, or hesitating manner. I am somewhat dainty in making a resolution, because when I make it, I keep it; I don't stand shill-I-shall-I then; if I say 't, I'll do 't. Congreve.  SHILLY-SHALLY Shil"ly-shal`ly, v. i.  To hesitate; to act in an irresolute manner; hence, to occupy one's self with trifles.  SHILLY-SHALLY Shil"ly-shal`ly, n.  Irresolution; hesitation; also, occupation with trifles. She lost not one of her forty-five minutes in picking and choosing, - - no shilly-shally in Kate. De Quincey. 

SHILOH:  A word used by Jacob on his deathbed, and interpreted variously, as "the Messiah," or as the city "Shiloh," or as "Rest." 

SHILY:  See Shyly. 

SHIM:  A thin piece of metal placed between two parts to make a fit. 

SHIMMER:  To shine with a tremulous or intermittent light; to shine faintly; to gleam; to glisten; to glimmer. The shimmering glimpses of a stream. Tennyson. 

SHIMMER:  A faint, tremulous light; a gleaming; a glimmer. TWo silver lamps, fed with perfumed oil, diffused . . . a trembling twilight-seeming shimmer through the quiet apartment. Sir W. Scott. 

SHIMMERING:  A gleam or glimmering. "A little shimmering of a light." Chaucer. 

SHIMMY:  A chemise. [Colloq.] 

SHIN:  A fish plate for rails. Knight. Shin bone (Anat.), the tibia.  -- Shin leaf (Bot.), a perennial ericaceous herb (Pyrola elliptica) with a cluster of radical leaves and a raceme of greenish white flowers. 

SHIN:  To climb (a pole, etc.) by shinning up. [Slang] 

SHINDLE:  A shingle; also, a slate for roofing. [Obs.] Holland. 

SHINDLE:  To cover or roof with shindles. [Obs.] 

SHINE:  Shining; sheen. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SHINER:  That which shines. Specifically: (a) A luminary. (b) A bright piece of money. [Slang] Has she the shiners, d' ye think Foote. black eye. (c) (Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of small freshwater American cyprinoid fishes, belonging to Notropis, or Minnilus, and allied genera; as the redfin (Notropis megalops), and the golden shiner (Notemigonus chrysoleucus) of the Eastern United States; also loosely applied to various other silvery fishes, as the dollar fish, or horsefish, menhaden, moonfish, sailor's choice, and the sparada. (d) (Zoöl.)  The common Lepisma, or furniture bug. Blunt-nosed shiner (Zoöl.), the silver moonfish. 

SHINESS:  See Shyness. 

SHINGLE:  Round, water-worn, and loose gravel and pebbles, or a collection of roundish stones, such as are common on the seashore and elsewhere. 

SHINGLE:  To subject to the process of shindling, as a mass of iron from the pudding furnace. 

SHINGLES:  A kind of herpes (Herpes zoster) which spreads half way around the body like a girdle, and is usually attended with violent neuralgic pain. 

SHINGLING:  The process of expelling scoriæ and other impurities by hammering and squeezing, in the production of wrought iron. Shingling hammer, a ponderous hammer moved by machinery, used in shingling puddled iron.  -- Shingling mill, a mill or forge where puddled iron is shingled. 

SHINGLY:  Abounding with shingle, or gravel. 

SHINHOPPLE:  The hobblebush. 

SHINING:  Emission or reflection of light. 

SHININGNESS:  Brightness. J. Spence. 

SHINNEY:  The game of hockey; -- so called because of the liability of the players to receive blows on the shin. Halliwell. 

SHINPLASTER:  Formerly, a jocose term for a bank note greatly depreciated in value; also, for paper money of a denomination less than a dollar. [U. S.]  SHIN SHU Shin Shu. [Jap., lit., true sect.]  The leading and most progressive Buddhist sect of Japan, resting its faith rather upon Amida than Gautama Buddha. Rites and ceremonies are held useless without uprightness.  SHINTIYAN; SHINTYAN Shin"ti*yan (shin"ti*yan), Shin"ty*an (shin"ti*an), n. [Ar. shintian.]  A kind of wide loose drawers or trousers worn by women in Mohammedan countries.  SHINTO; SHINTIISM Shin"to, Shin"ti*ism, n. Etym: [Chin. shin god + tao way, doctrine.]  One of the two great systems of religious belief in Japan. Its essence is ancestor worship, and sacrifice to dead heroes. [Written also Sintu, and Sintuism.] 

SHINTOIST:  An adherent of Shintoism. 

SHINTY:  A Scotch game resembling hockey; also, the club used in the game. Jamieson. 

SHINY:  Bright; luminous; clear; unclouded. Like distant thunder on a shiny day. Dryden.  -SHIP -ship. Etym: [OE. -schipe, AS. -scipe; akin to OFries. -skipe, OLG. - skepi, D. -schap, OHG. -scaf, G. -schaft. Cf. Shape, n., and Landscape.]  A suffix denoting state, office, dignity, profession, or art; as in lordship, friendship, chancellorship, stewardship, horsemanship. 

SHIP:  Pay; reward. [Obs.] In withholding or abridging of the ship or the hire or the wages of servants. Chaucer. 

SHIPBOARD:  A ship's side; hence, by extension, a ship; -- found chiefly in adverbial phrases; as, on shipboard; a shipboard. 

SHIPBUILDER:  A person whose occupation is to construct ships and other vessels; a naval architect; a shipwright. 

SHIPBUILDING:  Naval architecturel the art of constructing ships and other vessels. 

SHIPFUL:  As much or as many as a ship will hold; enough to fill a ship. 

SHIPHOLDER:  A shipowner. 

SHIPLESS:  Destitute of ships. Gray. 

SHIPLET:  A little ship. [R.] Holinshed. 

SHIPLOAD:  The load, or cargo, of a ship. 

SHIPMAN:  A seaman, or sailor. [Obs. or Poetic] Chaucer. R. Browning. About midnight the shipmen deemed that they drew near to some country. Acts xxvii. 27. Shipman's card, the mariner's compass. [Obs.] Shak. 

SHIPMASTER:  The captain, master, or commander of a ship. Jonah i. 6. 

SHIPMATE:  One who serves on board of the same ship with another; a fellow sailor. 

SHIPOWNER:  Owner of a ship or ships. 

SHIPPEN:  A stable; a cowhouse. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] 

SHIPPER:  One who sends goods from one place to another not in the same city or town, esp. one who sends goods by water. 

SHIPPING:  A document used in shipping goods by sea. In the case of free goods the shipping notes are the receiving note, addressed by the shipper to the chief officer of the vessel, requesting him to receive on board specified goods, and a receipt for the mate to sign, on receiving whose signature it is called the mate's receipt, and is surrendered by the shipper for the bills of lading. 

SHIPPO:  Cloisonné enamel on a background of metal or porcelain. 

SHIPPON:  A cowhouse; a shippen. [Prov. Eng.] Bessy would either do fieldwork, or attend to the cows, the shippon, or churn, or make cheese. Dickens.  SHIP RAILWAY Ship railway.  (a) An inclined railway running into the water with a cradelike car on which a vessel may be drawn out on land, as for repairs.  (b) A railway on which to transport vessels overland between bodies of water.  SHIP-RIGGED Ship"-rigged`, a. (Naut.)  Rigged like a ship, that is, having three masts, each with square sails. 

SHIPSHAPE:  Arranged in a manner befitting a ship; hence, trim; tidy; orderly. Even then she expressed her scorn for the lubbery executioner's mode of tying a knot, and did it herself in a shipshape orthodox manner. De Quincey. Keep everything shipshape, for I must go Tennyson. 

SHIPSHAPE:  In a shipshape or seamanlike manner. 

SHIPWORM:  Any long, slender, worm-shaped bivalve mollusk of Teredo and allied genera. The shipworms burrow in wood, and are destructive to wooden ships, piles of wharves, etc. See Teredo. 

SHIPWRIGHT:  One whose occupation is to construct ships; a builder of ships or other vessels. 

SHIPYARD:  A yard, place, or inclosure where ships are built or repaired. 

SHIRAZ:  A kind of Persian wine; -- so called from the place whence it is brought. 

SHIRE:  One of an English breed of heavy draft horses believed to be descended largely from the horses used in war in the days of heavy armor. They are the  largest of the British draft breeds, and have long hair on the back of the cannons and fetlocks. Brown or bay with white on the face and legs is now the commonest color. 

SHIRK:  One who lives by shifts and tricks; one who avoids the performance of duty or labor. 

SHIRKER:  One who shirks. Macaulay. 

SHIRKY:  Disposed to shirk. [Colloq.] 

SHIRL:  Shrill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SHIRL:  See Schorl. 

SHIRLEY:  The bullfinch. 

SHIRR:  A series of close parallel runnings which are drawn up so as to make the material between them set full by gatherings; -- called also shirring, and gauging. 

SHIRRED:  Made or gathered into a shirr; as, a shirred bonnet.  2. (Cookery)  Broken into an earthen dish and baked over the fire; -- said of eggs. 

SHIRT:  A loose under-garment for the upper part of the body, made of cotton, linen, or other material; -- formerly used of the under- garment of either sex, now commonly restricted to that worn by men and boys. Several persons in December had nothing over their shoulders but their shirts. Addison. She had her shirts and girdles of hair. Bp. Fisher. 

SHIRT:  To cover or clothe with a shirt, or as with a shirt. Dryden. 

SHIRTING:  Cloth, specifically cotton cloth, suitable for making shirts. 

SHIRTLESS:  Not having or wearing a shirt. Pope.  -- Shirt"less*ness, n.  SHIRT WAIST Shirt waist.  A belted waist resembling a shirt in plainness of cut and style, worn by women or children; -- in England called a blouse.  SHIRT-WAIST SUIT Shirt-waist suit.  A costume consisting of a plain belted waist and skirt of the same material.  SHIST; SHISTOSE Shist, Shis*tose".  See Shist, Schistose.  SHITTAH; SHITTAH TREE Shit"tah, Shit"tah tree`, n. Etym: [Heb. shittah, pl. shittim.]  A tree that furnished the precious wood of which the ark, tables, altars, boards, etc., of the Jewish tabernacle were made; -- now believed to have been the wood of the Acacia Seyal, which is hard, fine grained, and yellowish brown in color.  SHITTIM; SHITTIM WOOD Shit"tim, Shit"tim wood`, n.  The wood of the shittah tree. 

SHITTLE:  A shuttle. [Obs.] Chapman. 

SHITTLE:  Wavering; unsettled; inconstant. [Obs.] Holland. 

SHITTLECOCK:  A shuttlecock. [Obs.] 

SHITTLENESS:  Instability; inconstancy. [Obs.] The vain shittlenesse of an unconstant head. Baret. 

SHIVER:  A variety of blue slate.  4. (Naut.)  A sheave or small wheel in a pulley.  5. A small wedge, as for fastening the bolt of a window shutter.  6. A spindle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SHIVER:  To break into many small pieces, or splinters; to shatter; to dash to pieces by a blow; as, to shiver a glass goblet. All the ground With shivered armor strown. Milton. 

SHIVER:  To separate suddenly into many small pieces or parts; to be shattered. There shiver shafts upon shields thick. Chaucer The natural world, should gravity once cease, . . . would instantly shiver into millions of atoms. Woodward. 

SHIVER:  To tremble; to vibrate; to quiver; to shake, as from cold or fear. Prometheus is laid On icy Caucasus to shiver. Swift. The man that shivered on the brink of sin, Thus steeled and hardened, ventures boldly in. Creech. 

SHIVER:  To cause to shake or tremble, as a sail, by steering close to the wind. 

SHIVER:  The act of shivering or trembling. 

SHIVERINGLY:  In a shivering manner.  SHIVER-SPAR Shiv"er-spar`, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schiefer-spath.] (Min.)  A variety of calcite, so called from its slaty structure; -- called also slate spar. 

SHIZOKU:  The Japanese warrior gentry or middle class, formerly called samurai; also, any member of this class. 

SHOAD:  A train of vein material mixed with rubbish; fragments of ore which have become separated by the action of water or the weather, and serve to direct in the discovery of mines. [Written also shode.] 

SHOADING:  The tracing of veins of metal by shoads. [Written also shoding.] Pryce. 

SHOAL:  A great multitude assembled; a crowd; a throng; -- said especially of fish; as, a shoal of bass. "Great shoals of people." Bacon. Beneath, a shoal of silver fishes glides. Waller. 

SHOAL:  To assemble in a multitude; to throng; as, the fishes shoaled about the place. Chapman. 

SHOAL:  Having little depth; shallow; as, shoal water. 

SHOAL:  To become shallow; as, the color of the water shows where it shoals. 

SHOAL:  To cause to become more shallow; to come to a more shallow part of; as, a ship shoals her water by advancing into that which is less deep. Marryat. 

SHOALINESS:  The quality or state of being shoaly; little depth of water; shallowness. 

SHOALING:  Becoming shallow gradually. "A shoaling estuary." Lyell. 

SHOALY:  Full of shoals, or shallow places. The tossing vessel sailed on shoaly ground. Dryden. 

SHOAR:  A prop. See 3d Shore. 

SHOAT:  A young hog. Same as Shote. 

SHOCK:  A lot consisting of sixty pieces; -- a term applied in some Baltic ports to loose goods. 

SHOCK:  To collect, or make up, into a shock or shocks; to stook; as, to shock rye. 

SHOCK:  To be occupied with making shocks. Reap well, scatter not, gather clean that is shorn, Bind fast, shock apace. Tusser. 

SHOCK:  A sudden depression of the vital forces of the entire body, or of a port of it, marking some profound impression produced upon the nervous system, as by severe injury, overpowering emotion, or the like.  4. (Elec.)  The sudden convulsion or contraction of the muscles, with the feeling of a concussion, caused by the discharge, through the animal system, of electricity from a charged body.  Syn.  -- Concussion, Shock. Both words signify a sudden violent shaking caused by impact or colision; but concussion is restricted in use to matter, while shock is used also of mental states. 

SHOCK:  To meet with a shock; to meet in violent encounter. "They saw the moment approach when the two parties would shock together." De Quincey. 

SHOCK:  A dog with long hair or shag; -- called also shockdog.  2. A thick mass of bushy hair; as, a head covered with a shock of sandy hair. 

SHOCK:  Bushy; shaggy; as, a shock hair. His red shock peruke . . . was laid aside. Sir W. Scott. 

SHOCKDOG:  See 7th Shock, 1.  SHOCK-HEAD Shock"-head`, a.  Shock-headed. Tennyson.  SHOCK-HEADED Shock"-head`ed, a.  Having a thick and bushy head of hair. 

SHOCKING:  Causing to shake or tremble, as by a blow; especially, causing to recoil with horror or disgust; extremely offensive or disgusting. The grossest and most shocking villainies. Secker. -- Shock"ing*ly, adv.  -- Shock"ing*ness, n. 

SHOD:  f Shoe. 

SHODDY:  Made wholly or in part of shoddy; containing shoddy; as, shoddy cloth; shoddy blankets; hence, colloquially, not genuine; sham; pretentious; as, shoddy aristocracy. Shoddy inventions designed to bolster up a factitious pride. Compton Reade.  SHODDY FEVER Shoddy fever. (Med.)  A febrile disease characterized by dyspnoa and bronchitis caused by inhaling dust. 

SHODDYISM:  The quality or state of being shoddy. [Colloq.] See the Note under Shoddy, n. 

SHODE:  See Shoad, Shoading. 

SHODER:  A package of gold beater's skins in which gold is subjected to the second process of beating. 

SHOEBILL:  A large African wading bird (Balæniceps rex) allied to the storks and herons, and remarkable for its enormous broad swollen bill. It inhabits the valley of the White Nile. See Illust. (l.) of Beak. 

SHOEBLACK:  One who polishes shoes. 

SHOELESS:  Destitute of shoes. Addison. 

SHOEMAKING:  The business of a shoemaker. 

SHOER:  One who fits shoes to the feet; one who furnishes or puts on shoes; as, a shoer of horses. 

SHOG:  A shock; a jog; a violent concussion or impulse. [R. or Scot.] 

SHOG:  To shake; to shock. [R. or Scot.] 

SHOG:  To jog; to move on. [R. or Scot.] Beau & Fl. 

SHOGGLE:  To joggle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Pegge. 

SHOGUN:  A title originally conferred by the Mikado on the military governor of the eastern provinces of Japan. By gradual usurpation of power the Shoguns (known to foreigners as Tycoons) became finally the virtual rulers of Japan. The title was abolished in 1867. [Written variously, Shiogun, Shiogoon, etc.] 

SHOGUNATE:  The office or dignity of a Shogun. [Written also Siogoonate.] 

SHOLA:  See Sola. 

SHOLE:  A plank fixed beneath an object, as beneath the rudder of a vessel, to protect it from injury; a plank on the ground under the end of a shore or the like. 

SHOLE:  See Shoal. [Obs.] 

SHONDE:  Harm; disgrace; shame. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SHONE:  imp. & p. p. of Shine. 

SHOO:  Begone; away; -- an expression used in frightening away animals, especially fowls. 

SHOOI:  The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus);- so called from its cry. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHOOK:  imp. & obs. or poet. p. p. of Shake. 

SHOOK:  To pack, as staves, in a shook. 

SHOON:  pl. of Shoe. [Archaic] Chaucer. They shook the snow from hats and shoon. Emerson. 

SHOOP:  imp. of Shape. Shaped. Chaucer. 

SHOOT:  An inclined plane, either artificial or natural, down which timber, coal, etc., are caused to slide; also, a narrow passage, either natural or artificial, in a stream, where the water rushes rapidly; esp., a channel, having a swift current, connecting the ends of a bend in the stream, so as to shorten the course. [Written also chute, and shute.] [U. S.] To take a shoot, to pass through a shoot instead of the main channel; to take the most direct course. [U.S.] 

SHOOT:  To plane straight; to fit by planing. Two pieces of wood that are shot, that is, planed or else pared with a paring chisel. Moxon.  7. To pass rapidly through, over, or under; as, to shoot a rapid or a bridge; to shoot a sand bar. She . . . shoots the Stygian sound. Dryden.  8. To variegate as if by sprinkling or intermingling; to color in spots or patches. The tangled water courses slept, Shot over with purple, and green, and yellow. Tennyson. To be shot of, to be discharged, cleared, or rid of. [Colloq.] "Are you not glad to be shot of him" Sir W. Scott. 

SHOOT:  To move ahead by force of momentum, as a sailing vessel when the helm is put hard alee. To shoot ahead, to pass or move quickly forward; to outstrip others. 

SHOOT:  A vein of ore running in the same general direction as the lode. Knight.  5. (Weaving)  A weft thread shot through the shed by the shuttle; a pick.  6. Etym: [Perh. a different word.]  A shoat; a young hog. 

SHOOTING:  Of or pertaining to shooting; for shooting; darting. Shooting board (Joinery), a fixture used in planing or shooting the edge of a board, by means of which the plane is guided and the board held true.  -- Shooting box, a small house in the country for use in the shooting season. Prof. Wilson.  -- Shooting gallery, a range, usually covered, with targets for practice with firearms.  -- Shooting iron, a firearm. [Slang, U.S.] -- Shooting star. (a) (Astron.) A starlike, luminous meteor, that, appearing suddenly, darts quickly across some portion of the sky, and then as suddenly disappears, leaving sometimes, for a few seconds, a luminous train, - - called also falling star. Shooting stars are small cosmical bodies which encounter the earth in its annual revolution, and which become visible by coming with planetary velocity into the upper regions of the atmosphere. At certain periods, as on the 13th of November and 10th of August, they appear for a few hours in great numbers, apparently diverging from some point in the heavens, such displays being known as meteoric showers, or star showers. These bodies, before encountering the earth, were moving in orbits closely allied to the orbits of comets. See Leonids, Perseids. (b) (Bot.) The American cowslip (Dodecatheon Meadia). See under Cowslip.  -- Shooting stick (Print.), a tapering piece of wood or iron, used by printers to drive up the quoins in the chase. Hansard. 

SHOOTY:  Sprouting or coming up freely and regularly. [Prev. Eng.] Grose. 

SHOP:  imp. of Shape. Shaped. Chaucer. 

SHOP:  To visit shops for the purpose of purchasing goods. He was engaged with his mother and some ladies to go shopping. Byron. 

SHOPBOARD:  A bench or board on which work is performed; a workbench. South. 

SHOPBOOK:  A book in which a tradesman keeps his accounts. Locke. 

SHOPBOY:  A boy employed in a shop. 

SHOPEN:  p. p. of Shape. Chaucer. 

SHOPGIRL:  A girl employed in a shop. 

SHOPKEEPER:  A trader who sells goods in a shop, or by retail; -- in distinction from one who sells by wholesale. Addison. 

SHOPLIFTER:  One who steals anything in a shop, or takes goods privately from a shop; one who, under pretense of buying goods, takes occasion to steal. 

SHOPLIFTING:  Larceny committed in a shop; the stealing of anything from a shop. 

SHOPLIKE:  Suiting a shop; vulgar. B. Jonson. 

SHOPMAID:  A shopgirl. 

SHOPPER:  One who shops. 

SHOPPISH:  Having the appearance or qualities of a shopkeeper, or shopman. 

SHOPSHIFT:  The trick of a shopkeeper; deception. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SHOPWALKER:  One who walks about in a shop as an overseer and director. Cf. Floorwalker. 

SHOPWOMAN:  A woman employed in a shop. 

SHOPWORN:  Somewhat worn or damaged by having been kept for a time in a shop. 

SHORAGE:  Duty paid for goods brought on shore. Grabb. 

SHORE:  imp. of Shear. Chaucer. 

SHORE:  A sewer. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SHORE:  A prop, as a timber, placed as a brace or support against the side of a building or other structure; a prop placed beneath anything, as a beam, to prevent it from sinking or sagging. [Written also shoar.] 

SHORE:  To support by a shore or shores; to prop; -- usually with up; as, to shore up a building. 

SHORE:  The coast or land adjacent to a large body of water, as an ocean, lake, or large river. Michael Cassio, Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello, Is come shore. Shak. The fruitful shore of muddy Nile. Spenser. In shore, near the shore. Marryat.  -- On shore. See under On.  -- Shore birds (Zoöl.), a collective name for the various limicoline birds found on the seashore.  -- Shore crab (Zoöl.), any crab found on the beaches, or between tides, especially any one of various species of grapsoid crabs, as Heterograpsus nudus of California.  -- Shore lark (Zoöl.), a small American lark (Otocoris alpestris) found in winter, both on the seacoast and on the Western plains. Its upper parts are varied with dark brown and light brown. It has a yellow throat, yellow local streaks, a black crescent on its breast, a black streak below each eye, and two small black erectile ear tufts. Called also horned lark.  -- Shore plover (Zoöl.), a large-billed Australian plover (Esacus magnirostris). It lives on the seashore, and feeds on crustaceans, etc.  -- Shore teetan (Zoöl.), the rock pipit (Anthus obscurus). [Prov. Eng.] 

SHORE:  To set on shore. [Obs.] Shak. 

SHORELESS:  Having no shore or coast; of indefinite or unlimited extent; as, a shoreless ocean. Young. 

SHORELING:  See Shorling. 

SHORER:  One who, or that which, shores or props; a prop; a shore. 

SHOREWARD:  Toward the shore. 

SHORING:  See Schorl, Schorlaceous. 

SHORN:  p. p. of Shear. 

SHORT:  Breaking or crumbling readily in the mouth; crisp; as, short pastry.  11. (Metal)  Brittle.  Note: Metals that are brittle when hot are called ; as, cast iron may be hot-short, owing to the presence of sulphur. Those that are brittle when cold are called cold-short; as, cast iron may be cold- short, on account of the presence of phosphorus.  12. (Stock Exchange)  Engaging or engaged to deliver what is not possessed; as, short contracts; to be short of stock. See The shorts, under Short, n., and To sell short, under Short, adv.  Note: In mercantile transactions, a note or bill is sometimes made payable at short sight, that is, in a little time after being presented to the payer.  13. (Phon.)  Not prolonged, or relatively less prolonged, in utterance; -- opposed to long, and applied to vowels or to syllables. In English, the long and short of the same letter are not, in most cases, the long and short of the same sound; thus, the i in ill is the short sound, not of i in isle, but of ee in eel, and the e in pet is the short sound of a in pate, etc. See Quantity, and Guide to Pronunciation, §§22, 30.  Note: Short is much used with participles to form numerous self- explaining compounds; as, short-armed, short-billed, short-fingered, short-haired, short-necked, short-sleeved, short-tailed, short- winged, short-wooled, etc. At short notice, in a brief time; promptly.  -- Short rib (Anat.), one of the false ribs.  -- Short suit (Whist), any suit having only three cards, or less than three. R. A. Proctor.  -- To come short, To cut short, To fall short, etc. See under Come, Cut, etc. 

SHORT:  The part of milled grain sifted out which is next finer than the bran. The first remove above bran is shorts. Halliwell.  3. pl.  Short, inferior hemp.  4. pl.  Breeches; shortclothes. [Slang] Dickens.  5. (Phonetics)  A short sound, syllable, or vowel. If we compare the nearest conventional shorts and longs in English, as in "bit" and "beat," "not" and "naught," we find that the short vowels are generally wide, the long narrow, besides being generally diphthongic as well. Hence, originally short vowels can be lengthened and yet kept quite distinct from the original longs. H. Sweet. In short, in few words; in brief; briefly.  -- The long and the short, the whole; a brief summing up.  -- The shorts (Stock Exchange), those who are unsupplied with stocks which they contracted to deliver. 

SHORT:  In a short manner; briefly; limitedly; abruptly; quickly; as, to stop short in one's course; to turn short. He was taken up very short, and adjudged corrigible for such presumptuous language. Howell. To sell short (Stock Exchange), to sell, for future delivery, what the party selling does not own, but hopes to buy at a lower rate. 

SHORT:  To shorten. [Obs.] 

SHORT:  To fail; to decrease. [Obs.] 

SHORTAGE:  Amount or extent of deficiency, as determined by some requirement or standard; as, a shortage in money accounts.  SHORT-BREATHED Short"-breathed`, a.  1. Having short-breath, or quick respiration.  2. Having short life. 

SHORTCAKE:  An unsweetened breakfast cake shortened with butter or lard, rolled thin, and baked.  SHORT CIRCUIT Short" cir"cuit. (Elec.)  A circuit formed or closed by a conductor of relatively low resistance because shorter or of relatively great conductivity.  SHORT-CIRCUIT Short"-cir`cuit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Short-circuited; p. pr. & vb. n. Short-circuiting.] (Elec.)  To join, as the electrodes of a battery or dynamo or any two points of a circuit, by a conductor of low resistance. 

SHORTCLOTHES:  Coverings for the legs of men or boys, consisting of trousers which reach only to the knees, -- worn with long stockings. 

SHORTCOMING:  The act of falling, or coming short; as: (a) The failure of a crop, or the like. (b) Neglect of, or failure in, performance of duty.  SHORT-DATED Short"-dat`ed, a.  Having little time to run from the date. "Thy short-dated life." Sandys. 

SHORTEN:  To become short or shorter; as, the day shortens in northern latitudes from June to December; a metallic rod shortens by cold. 

SHORTENER:  One who, or that which, shortens. 

SHORTENING:  That which renders pastry short or friable, as butter, lard, etc. 

SHORTHAND:  A compendious and rapid method or writing by substituting characters, abbreviations, or symbols, for letters, words, etc.; short writing; stenography. See Illust. under Phonography.  SHORT-HANDED Short`-hand"ed, a.  Short of, or lacking the regular number of, servants or helpers. 

SHORTHEAD:  A sucking whale less than one year old; -- so called by sailors. 

SHORTHORN:  One of a breed of large, heavy domestic cattle having short horns. The breed was developed in England.  SHORT-JOINTED Short"-joint`ed, a.  Having short intervals between the joints; -- said of a plant or an animal, especially of a horse whose pastern is too short.  SHORT-LIVED Short"-lived`, a.  Not living or lasting long; being of short continuance; as, a short-lived race of beings; short-lived pleasure; short-lived passion. 

SHORTNESS:  The quality or state of being short; want of reach or extension; brevity; deficiency; as, the shortness of a journey; the shortness of the days in winter; the shortness of an essay; the shortness of the memory; a shortness of provisions; shortness of breath. 

SHORTSIGHTED:  Speaking in a quick or short manner; hence, gruff; curt. [Colloq.] 

SHORTSTOP:  The player stationed in the field bewtween the second and third bases.  SHORT-WAISTED Short"-waist`ed, a.  Having a short waist.  SHORT-WINDED Short"-wind`ed, a.  Affected with shortness of breath; having a quick, difficult respiration, as dyspnoic and asthmatic persons. May. 

SHORTWING:  Any one of several species of small wrenlike Asiatic birds having short wings and a short tail. They belong to Brachypterix, Callene, and allied genera.  SHORT-WITED Short"-wit`ed, a.  Having little wit; not wise; having scanty intellect or judgment. 

SHORY:  Lying near the shore. [Obs.] 

SHOSHONES:  A linguistic family or stock of North American Indians, comprising many tribes, which extends from Montana and Idaho into Mexico. In a restricted sense the name is applied especially to the Snakes, the most northern of the tribes. 

SHOT:  imp. & p. p. Shoot. 

SHOT:  Woven in such a way as to produce an effect of variegation, of changeable tints, or of being figured; as, shot silks. See Shoot, v. t., 8. 

SHOT:  A share or proportion; a reckoning; a scot. Here no shots are where all shares be. Chapman. A man is never . . . welcome to a place till some certain shot be paid and the hostess say "Welcome." Shak. 

SHOT:  To load with shot, as a gun. Totten.  SHOT-CLOG Shot"-clog`, n.  A person tolerated only because he pays the shot, or reckoning, for the rest of the company, otherwise a mere clog on them. [Old Slang] Thou common shot-clog, gull of all companies. Chapman. 

SHOTE:  A fish resembling the trout. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Garew.  2. Etym: [Perh. a different word.]  A young hog; a shoat.  SHOT-FREE Shot"-free`, a.  Not to be injured by shot; shot-proof. [Obs.] Feltham.  SHOT-FREE Shot"-free`, a.  Free from charge or expense; hence, unpunished; scot-free. [Obs.] Shak. 

SHOTGUN:  A light, smooth-bored gun, often double-barreled, especially designed for firing small shot at short range, and killing small game.  SHOT-PROOF Shot"-proof`, a.  Impenetrable by shot. 

SHOTS:  The refuse of cattle taken from a drove. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  SHOT SAMPLES Shot samples. (Metal.)  Samples taken for assay from  a molten metallic mass pouring a portion into water, to granulate it. 

SHOTTED:  Having a shot attached; as, a shotten suture. 

SHOUGH:  A shockdog. 

SHOUGH:  See Shoo. Beau & Fl. 

SHOULD:  Used as an auxiliary verb, to express a conditional or contingent act or state, or as a supposition of an actual fact; also, to express moral obligation (see Shall); e. g.: they should have come last week; if I should go; I should think you could go. "You have done that you should be sorry for." Shak.  Syn.  -- See Ought. 

SHOULDER:  The joint, or the region of the joint, by which the fore limb is connected with the body or with the shoulder girdle; the projection formed by the bones and muscles about that joint.  2. The flesh and muscles connected with the shoulder joint; the upper part of the back; that part of the human frame on which it is most easy to carry a heavy burden; -- often used in the plural. Then by main force pulled up, and on his shoulders bore The gates of Azza. Milton. Adown her shoulders fell her length of hair. Dryden.  3. Fig.: That which supports or sustains; support. In thy shoulder do I build my seat. Shak.  4. That which resembles a human shoulder, as any protuberance or projection from the body of a thing. The north western shoulder of the mountain. Sir W. Scott.  5. The upper joint of the fore leg and adjacent parts of an animal, dressed for market; as, a shoulder of mutton.  6. (Fort.)  The angle of a bastion included between the face and flank. See Illust. of Bastion.  7. An abrupt projection which forms an abutment on an object, or limits motion, etc., as the projection around a tenon at the end of a piece of timber, the part of the top of a type which projects beyond the base of the raised character, etc. Shoulder belt, a belt that passes across the shoulder.  -- Shoulder blade (Anat.), the flat bone of the shoulder, to which the humerus is articulated; the scapula.  -- Shoulder block (Naut.), a block with a projection, or shoulder, near the upper end, so that it can rest against a spar without jamming the rope.  -- Shoulder clapper, one who claps another on the shoulder, or who uses great familiarity. [Obs.] Shak.  -- Shoulder girdle. (Anat.) See Pectoral girdle, under Pectoral.  -- Shoulder knot, an ornamental knot of ribbon or lace worn on the shoulder; a kind of epaulet or braided ornament worn as part of a military uniform.  -- Shoulder-of-mutton sail (Naut.), a triangular sail carried on a boat's mast; -- so called from its shape.  -- Shoulder slip, dislocation of the shoulder, or of the humerous. Swift.  -- Shoulder strap, a strap worn on or over the shoulder. Specifically (Mil. & Naval), a narrow strap worn on the shoulder of a commissioned officer, indicating, by a suitable device, the rank he holds in the service. See Illust. in App. 

SHOULDERED:  Having shoulders; -- used in composition; as, a broad- shouldered man. "He was short-shouldered." Chaucer.  SHOULDER-SHOTTEN Shoul"der-shot`ten, a.  Sprained in the shoulder, as a horse. Shak. 

SHOUT:  To utter a sudden and loud outcry, as in joy, triumph, or exultation, or to attract attention, to animate soldiers, etc. Shouting of the men and women eke. Chaucer. They shouted thrice: what was the last cry for Shak. To shout at, to utter shouts at; to deride or revile with shouts. 

SHOUT:  A loud burst of voice or voices; a vehement and sudden outcry, especially of a multitudes expressing joy, triumph, exultation, or animated courage. The Rhodians, seeing the enemy turn their backs, gave a great shout in derision. Knolles. 

SHOUTER:  One who shouts. 

SHOVE:  The act of shoving; a forcible push. I rested . . . and then gave the boat another shove. Swift.  Syn.  -- See Thrust. 

SHOVE:  p. p. of Shove. Chaucer.  SHOVEBOARD; SHOVEGROAT Shove"board`, Shove"groat`, n.  The same as Shovelboard. 

SHOVEL:  An implement consisting of a broad scoop, or more or less hollow blade, with a handle, used for lifting and throwing earth, coal, grain, or other loose substances. Shovel hat, a broad-brimmed hat, turned up at the sides, and projecting in front like a shovel, - - worn by some clergy of the English Church. [Colloq.] -- Shovelspur (Zoöl.), a flat, horny process on the tarsus of some toads, -- used in burrowing.  -- Steam shovel, a machine with a scoop or scoops, operated by a steam engine, for excavating earth, as in making railway cuttings. 

SHOVELARD:  Shoveler. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHOVELBILL:  The shoveler. 

SHOVELER:  A river duck (Spatula clypeata), native of Europe and America. It has a large bill, broadest towards the tip. The male is handsomely variegated with green, blue, brown, black, and white on the body; the head and neck are dark green. Called also broadbill, spoonbill, shovelbill, and maiden duck. The Australian shoveler, or shovel-nosed duck (S. rhynchotis), is a similar species. 

SHOVELFUL:  As much as a shovel will hold; enough to fill a shovel. 

SHOVELHEAD:  A shark (Sphryna tiburio) allied to the hammerhead, and native of the warmer parts of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonnet shark. 

SHOVELNOSE:  Having a broad, flat nose; as, the shovel-nosed duck, or shoveler. 

SHOVEN:  p. p. of Shove. Chaucer. 

SHOW:  A discharge, from the vagina, of mucus streaked with blood, occuring a short time before labor.  7. (Mining)  A pale blue flame, at the top of a candle flame, indicating the presence of fire damp. Raymond. Show bill, a broad sheet containing an advertisement in large letters.  -- Show box, a box xontaining some object of curiosity carried round as a show.  -- Show card, an advertising placard; also, a card for displaying samples.  -- Show case, a gla -- Show glass, a glass which displays objects; a mirror.  -- Show of hands, a raising of hands to indicate judgment; as, the vote was taken by a show of hands.  -- Show stone, a piece of glass or crystal supposed to have the property of exhibiting images of persons or things not present, indicating in that way future events. 

SHOWBREAD:  Bread of exhibition; loaves to set before God; -- the term used in translating the various phrases used in the Hebrew and Greek to designate the loaves of bread which the priest of the week placed before the Lord on the golden table in the sanctuary. They were made of fine flour unleavened, and were changed every Sabbath. The loaves, twelve in number, represented the twelve tribes of Israel. They were to be eaten by the priests only, and in the Holy Place. [Written also shewbread.] Mark ii. 26. 

SHOWER:  To rain in showers; to fall, as in a hower or showers. Shak. 

SHOWERFUL:  Full of showers. Tennyson. 

SHOWERINESS:  Quality of being showery. 

SHOWERLESS:  Rainless; freo from showers. 

SHOWILY:  In a showy manner; pompously; with parade. 

SHOWINESS:  The quality or state of being showy; pompousness; great parade; ostentation. 

SHOWISH:  Showy; ostentatious. Swift. 

SHOWMAN:  One who exhibits a show; a proprietor of a show. 

SHOWN:  p. p. of Show. 

SHOWROOM:  A room or apartment where a show is exhibited.  2. A room where merchandise is exposed for sale, or where samples are displayed. 

SHOWY:  , a. Etym: [Compar. Showier (; superl. Showiest.]  Making a show; attracting attention; presenting a marked appearance; ostentatious; gay; gaudy. A present of everything that was rich and showy. Addison.  Syn.  -- Splendid; gay; gaudy; gorgeous; fine; magnificent; grand; stately; sumptuous; pompous. 

SHRAG:  A twig of a tree cut off. [Obs.] 

SHRAG:  To trim, as trees; to lop. [Obs.] 

SHRAGGER:  One who lops; one who trims trees. [Obs.] Huloet. 

SHRAM:  To cause to shrink or shrivel with cold; to benumb. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHRANK:  imp. of Shrink.  SHRAP; SHRAPE Shrap, Shrape, n. Etym: [Cf. Scrap, and Scrape.]  A place baited with chaff to entice birds. [Written also scrap.] [Obs.] Bp. Bedell. 

SHRAPNEL:  Applied as an appellation to a kind of shell invented by Gen. H. Shrapnel of the British army.  -- n.  A shrapnel shell; shrapnel shells, collectively. Shrapnel shell (Gunnery), a projectile for a cannon, consisting of a shell filled with bullets and a small bursting charge to scatter them at any given point while in flight. See the Note under Case shot. 

SHREDCOOK:  The fieldfare; -- so called from its harsh cry before rain. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHREDDY:  Consisting of shreds. 

SHREDLESS:  Having no shreds; without a shred. And those which waved are shredless dust ere now. Byron. 

SHREW:  Wicked; malicious. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SHREW:  Any small insectivore of the genus Sorex and several allied genera of the family Sorecidæ. In form and color they resemble mice, but they have a longer and more pointed nose. Some of them are the smallest of all mammals.  Note: The common European species are the house shrew (Crocidura araneus), and the erd shrew (Sorex vulgaris) (see under Erd.). In the United States several species of Sorex and Blarina are common, as the broadnosed shrew (S. platyrhinus), Cooper's shrew (S. Cooperi), and the short-tailed, or mole, shrew (Blarina brevicauda). Th American water, or marsh, shrew (Neosorex palustris), with fringed feet, is less common. The common European water shrews are Crossopus fodiens, and the oared shrew (see under Oared). Earth shrew, any shrewlike burrowing animal of the family Centetidæ, as the tendrac.  -- Elephant shrew, Jumping shrew, Mole shrew. See under Elephant, Jumping, etc.  -- Musk shrew. See Desman.  -- River shrew, an aquatic West African insectivore (Potamogale velox) resembling a weasel in form and size, but having a large flattened and crested tail adapted for rapid swimming. It feeds on fishes.  -- Shrew mole, a common large North American mole (Scalops aquaticus). Its fine, soft fur is gray with iridescent purple tints. 

SHREW:  To beshrew; to curse. [Obs.] "I shrew myself." Chaucer. 

SHREWISH:  having the qualities of a shrew; having a scolding disposition; froward; peevish. My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours. Shak. -- Shrew"ish*ly, adv.  -- Shrew"ish*ness, n. 

SHREWMOUSE:  A shrew; especially, the erd shrew. 

SHRIEK:  To utter a loud, sharp, shrill sound or cry, as do some birds and beasts; to scream, as in a sudden fright, in horror or anguish. It was the owl that shrieked. Shak. At this she shrieked aloud; the mournful train Echoed her grief. Dryden. 

SHRIEK:  To utter sharply and shrilly; to utter in or with a shriek or shrieks. On top whereof aye dwelt the ghostly owl, Shrieking his baleful note. Spenser. She shrieked his name To the dark woods. Moore. 

SHRIEK:  A sharp, shrill outcry or scream; a shrill wild cry such as is caused by sudden or extreme terror, pain, or the like. Shrieks, clamors, murmurs, fill the frighted town. Dryden. Shriek owl. (Zoöl.) (a) The screech owl. (b) The swift; -- so called from its cry. 

SHRIEKER:  One who utters a shriek. 

SHRIEVAL:  Of or pertaining to a sheriff. 

SHRIEVALTY:  The office, or sphere of jurisdiction, of a sheriff; sheriffalty. It was ordained by 28 Edward I that the people shall have election of sheriff in every shire where the shrievalty is not of inheritance. Blackstone. 

SHRIEVE:  A sheriff. [Obs.] Shak. 

SHRIEVE:  To shrive; to question. [Obs.] "She gan him soft to shrieve." Spenser. 

SHRIGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Shriek. She cried alway and shright. Chaucer. 

SHRIGHT:  A shriek; shrieking. [Obs] Spenser. "All hoarse for shright." Chaucer. 

SHRIKE:  Any one of numerous species of oscinine birds of the family Laniidæ, having a strong hooked bill, toothed at the tip. Most shrikes are insectivorous, but the common European gray shrike (Lanius excubitor), the great northern shrike (L. borealis), and several others, kill mice, small birds, etc., and often impale them on thorns, and are, on that account called also butcher birds. See under Butcher.  Note: The ant shrikes, or bush shrikes, are clamatorial birds of the family Formicaridæ. The cuckoo shrikes of the East Indies and Australia are Oscines of the family Campephagidæ. The drongo shrikes of the same regions belong to the related family Dicruridæ. See Drongo. Crow shrike. See under Crow.  -- Shrike thrush. (a) Any one of several species of Asiatic timaline birds of the genera Thamnocataphus, Gampsorhynchus, and allies. (b) Any one of several species of shrikelike Australian singing birds of the genus Colluricincla.  -- Shrike tit. (a) Any one of several Australian birds of the genus Falcunculus, having a strong toothed bill and sharp claws. They creep over the bark of trees, like titmice, in search of insects. (b) Any one of several species of small Asiatic birds belonging to Allotrius, Pteruthius, Cutia, Leioptila, and allied genera, related to the true tits. Called also hill tit.  -- Swallow shrike. See under Swallow. 

SHRILL:  Acute; sharp; piercing; having or emitting a sharp, piercing tone or sound; -- said a sound, or of that which produces a sound. Hear the shrill whistle which doth order give To sounds confused. Shak. Let winds be shrill, let waves roll high. Byron. 

SHRILL:  A shrill sound. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SHRILL:  To utter an acute, piercing sound; to sound with a sharp, shrill tone; to become shrill. Break we our pipes, that shrilledloud as lark. Spenser. No sounds were heard but of the shrilling cock. Goldsmith. His voice shrilled with passion. L. Wallace. 

SHRILL:  To utter or express in a shrill tone; to cause to make a shrill sound. How poor Andromache shrills her dolors forth. Shak.  SHRILL-GORGED Shrill"-gorged`, a.  Having a throat which produces a shrill note. [R.] Shak. 

SHRILLNESS:  The quality or state of being shrill.  SHRILL-TONGUED Shrill"-tongued`, a.  Having a shrill voice. "When shrill-tongued Fulvia scolds." Shak. 

SHRILLY:  In a shrill manner; acutely; with a sharp sound or voice. 

SHRILLY:  Somewhat shrill. [Poetic] Sir W. Scott. Some kept up a shrilly mellow sound. Keats. 

SHRIMP:  To contract; to shrink. [Obs.] 

SHRIMPER:  One who fishes for shrimps. 

SHRINE:  To enshrine; to place reverently, as in a shrine. "Shrined in his sanctuary." Milton. 

SHRINK:  The act shrinking; shrinkage; contraction; also, recoil; withdrawal. Yet almost wish, with sudden shrink, That I had less to praise. Leigh Hunt. 

SHRINKER:  One who shrinks; one who withdraws from danger. 

SHRINKING:  from Shrink. Shrinking head (Founding), a body of molten metal connected with a mold for the purpose of supplying metal to compensate for the shrinkage of the casting; -- called also sinking head, and riser. 

SHRINKINGLY:  In a shrinking manner. 

SHRIVALTY:  Shrievalty. Johnson. 

SHRIVE:  To receive confessions, as a priest; to administer confession and absolution. Spenser. 

SHRIVEL:  To draw, or be drawn, into wrinkles; to shrink, and form corrugations; as, a leaf shriveles in the hot sun; the skin shrivels with age; -- often with up. 

SHRIVEL:  To cause to shrivel or contract; to cause to shrink onto corruptions. 

SHRIVEN:  p. p. of Shrive. 

SHRIVER:  One who shrives; a confessor. 

SHRIVING:  Shrift; confession. Spenser. 

SHROFF:  A banker, or changer of money. [East Indies] 

SHROFFAGE:  The examination of coins, and the separation of the good from the debased. [East Indies] 

SHROOD:  To trim; to lop. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHROPSHIRE:  An English breed of black-faced hornless sheep similar to the Southdown, but larger, now extensively raised in many parts of the world. 

SHROUD:  A set of ropes serving as stays to support the masts. The lower shrouds are secured to the sides of vessels by heavy iron bolts and are passed around the head of the lower masts.  7. (Mach.)  One of the two annular plates at the periphery of a water wheel, which form the sides of the buckets; a shroud plate. Bowsprit shrouds (Naut.), ropes extending from the head of the bowsprit to the sides of the vessel.  -- Futtock shrouds (Naut.), iron rods connecting the topmast rigging with the lower rigging, passing over the edge of the top.  -- Shroud plate. (a) (Naut.) An iron plate extending from the dead- eyes to the ship's side. Ham. Nav. Encyc. (b) (Mach.) A shroud. See def. 7, above. 

SHROUD:  To take shelter or harbor. [Obs.] If your stray attendance be yet lodged, Or shroud within these limits. Milton. 

SHROUD:  To lop. See Shrood. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHROUDED:  Provided with a shroud or shrouds. Shrouded gear (Mach.), a cogwheel or pinion having flanges which form closed ends to the spaces between the teeth and thus strengthen the teeth by tying them together. 

SHROUDING:  The shrouds. See Shroud, n., 7.  SHROUD-LAID Shroud"-laid`, a.  Composed of four strands, and laid right-handed with a heart, or center; -- said of rope. See Illust. under Cordage. 

SHROUDLESS:  Without a shroud. 

SHROUDY:  Affording shelter. [R.] Milton. 

SHROVE:  imp. of Shrive. Shrove Sunday, Quinguagesima Sunday.  -- Shrove Tuesday, the Tuesday following Quinguagesima Sunday, and preceding the first day of Lent, or Ash Wednesday.  Note: It was formerly customary in England, on this day, for the people to confess their sins to their parish priests, after which they dined on pancakes, or fritters, and the occasion became one of merriment. The bell rung on this day is popularly called Pancake Bell, and the day itself Pancake Tuesday. P. Cyc. 

SHROVE:  To join in the festivities of Shrovetide; hence, to make merry. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 

SHROVETIDE:  The days immediately preceding Ash Widnesday, especially the period between the evening before Quinguagesima Sunday and the morning of Ash Wednesday. 

SHROVING:  The festivity of Shrovetide. [Obs.] 

SHROW:  A shrew. [Obs.] Shak. 

SHROWD:  See Shrood. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHRUB:  A liquor composed of vegetable acid, especially lemon juice, and sugar, with spirit to preserve it. 

SHRUB:  A woody plant of less size than a tree, and usually with several stems from the same root. 

SHRUB:  To lop; to prune. [Obs.] Anderson (1573). 

SHRUBBINESS:  Quality of being shrubby. 

SHRUBLESS:  having no shrubs. Byron. 

SHRUFF:  Rubbish. Specifically: (a) Dross or refuse of metals. [Obs.] (b) Light, dry wood, or stuff used for fuel. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHRUG:  To draw up or contract (the shoulders), especially by way of expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like. He shrugs his shoulders when you talk of securities. Addison. 

SHRUG:  To raise or draw up the shoulders, as in expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like. They grin, they shrug. They bow, they snarl, they snatch, they hug. Swift. 

SHRUG:  A drawing up of the shoulders, -- a motion usually expressing dislike, dread, or doubt. The Spaniards talk in dialogues Of heads and shoulders, nods and shrugs. Hudibras. 

SHRUNKEN:  from Shrink. 

SHUCK:  A shock of grain. [Prev.Eng.] 

SHUCK:  To deprive of the shucks or husks; as, to shuck walnuts, Indian corn, oysters, etc. 

SHUCKER:  One who shucks oysters or clams 

SHUDDER:  To tremble or shake with fear, horrer, or aversion; to shiver with cold; to quake. "With shuddering horror pale." Milton. The shuddering tennant of the frigid zone. Goldsmith. 

SHUDDER:  The act of shuddering, as with fear. Shak. 

SHUDDERINGLY:  In a shuddering manner. 

SHUDE:  The husks and other refuse of rice mills, used to adulterate oil cake, or linseed cake. 

SHUFFLEBOARD:  See Shovelboard. 

SHUFFLECAP:  ,.A play performed by shaking money in a hat or cap. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

SHUFFLER:  Either one of the three common American scaup ducks. See Scaup duck, under Scaup. 

SHUFFLEWING:  The hedg sparrow. [Prov. Eng.] 

SHUFFLING:  In a shuffling manner. 

SHUMAC:  Sumac. 

SHUN:  To avoid; to keep clear of; to get out of the way of; to escape from; to eschew; as, to shun rocks, shoals, vice. I am pure from the blood of all men. For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. Acts xx. 26,27. Scarcity and want shall shun you. Shak.  Syn.  -- See Avoid. 

SHUNLESS:  Not to be shunned; inevitable; unavoidable. [R.] "Shunless destiny." Shak. 

SHUNT:  To provide with a shunt; as, to shunt a galvanometer. 

SHUNT:  To go aside; to turn off. 

SHUNT:  A turning off to a side or short track, that the principal track may be left free.  2. (Elec.)  A conducting circuit joining two points in a conductor, or the terminals of a galvanometer or dynamo, so as to form a parallel or derived circuit through which a portion of the current may pass, for the purpose of regulating the amount passing in the main circuit.  3. (Gunnery)  The shifting of the studs on a projectile from the deep to the shallow sides of the grooves in its discharge from a shunt gun. Shunt dynamo (Elec.), a dynamo in which the field circuit is connected with the main circuit so as to form a shunt to the letter, thus employing a portion of the current from the armature to maintain the field.  -- Shunt gun, a firearm having shunt rifling. See under Rifling. 

SHUNTER:  A person employed to shunt cars from one track to another. 

SHUNTING:  A valve permitting a fluid under pressure an easier avenue of escape than normally; specif., a valve, actuated by the governor, used in one system of marine-engine governing to connect both ends of the low-pressure cylinder as a supplementary control.  SHUNT WINDING Shunt winding. (Elec.)  A winding so arranged as to divide the armature current and lead a portion of it around the field-magnet coils; -- opposed to series winding. --Shunt"-wound` (#), a. 

SHUT:  To close itself; to become closed; as, the door shuts; it shuts hard. To shut up, to cease speaking. [Colloq.] T. Hughes. 

SHUT:  The act or time of shutting; close; as, the shut of a door. Just then returned at shut of evening flowers. Milton.  2. A door or cover; a shutter. [Obs.] Sir I. Newton.  3. The line or place where two pieces of metal are united by welding. Cold shut, the imperfection in a casting caused by the flowing of liquid metal upon partially chilled metal; also, the imperfect weld in a forging caused by the inadequate heat of one surface under working. 

SHUTE:  Same as Chute, or Shoot. 

SHUTTERED:  Furnished with shutters. 

SHUTTLE:  To move backwards and forwards, like a shuttle. I had to fly far and wide, shutting athwart the big Babel, wherever his calls and pauses had to be. Carlyle. 

SHUTTLECOCK:  A cork stuck with feathers, which is to be struck by a battledoor in play; also, the play itself. 

SHUTTLECOCK:  To send or toss to and fro; to bandy; as, to shuttlecock words. Thackeray. 

SHUTTLECORK:  See Shuttlecock. 

SHUTTLEWISE:  Back and forth, like the movement of a shuttle.  SHWAN-PAN Shwan"-pan, n.  See Schwan-pan. 

SHY:  To start suddenly aside through fright or suspicion; -- said especially of horses. 

SHY:  To throw sidewise with a jerk; to fling; as, to shy a stone; to shy a slipper. T. Hughes. 

SHYLY:  In a shy or timid manner; not familiarly; with reserve. [Written also shily.] 

SHYNESS:  The quality or state of being shy. [Written also shiness.] Frequency in heavenly contemplation is particularly important to prevent a shyness bewtween God and thy soul. Baxter.  Syn.  -- Bashfulness; reserve; coyness; timidity; diffidence. See Bashfulness. 

SHYSTER:  A trickish knave; one who carries on any business, especially legal business, in a mean and dishonest way. [Slang, U.S.] 

SI:  A syllable applied, in solmization, to the note B; more recently, to the seventh tone of any major diatonic scale. It was added to Guido's scale by Le Maire about the end of the 17th century. 

SIAGA:  The ahu, or jairou. 

SIALOGOGUE:  An agent which promotes the flow of saliva. 

SIAMANG:  A gibbon (Hylobates syndactylus), native of Sumatra. It has the second and third toes partially united by a web. 

SIAMESE:  Of or pertaining to Siam, its native people, or their language. 

SIAMESE:  The language of the Siamese. 

SIB:  A blood relation. [Obs.] Nash. 

SIB:  Related by blood; akin. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. Your kindred is but . . . little sib to you. Chaucer. [He] is no fairy birn, ne sib at all To elfs, but sprung of seed terrestrial. Spenser. 

SIBBENS:  A contagious disease, endemic in Scotland, resembling the yaws. It is marked by ulceration of the throat and nose and by pustules and soft fungous excrescences upon the surface of the body. In the Orkneys the name is applied to the itch. [Written also sivvens.] 

SIBERIAN:  Of or pertaining to Siberia, a region comprising all northern Asia and belonging to Russia; as, a Siberian winter.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Siberia. Siberian crab (Bot.), the Siberian crab apple. See Crab apple, under Crab.  -- Siberian dog (Zoöl.), one of a large breed of dogs having erect ears and the hair of the body and tail very long. It is distinguished for endurance of fatigue when used for the purpose of draught.  -- Siberian pea tree (Bot.), a small leguminous tree (Cragana arborescens) with yellow flowers. It is a native of Siberia.  SIBILANCE; SIBILANCY Sib"i*lance, Sib"i*lan*cy, n.  The quality or state of being sibilant; sibilation. Milton would not have avoided them for their sibilancy, he who wrote . . . verses that hiss like Medusa's head in wrath. Lowell. 

SIBILANT:  Making a hissing sound; uttered with a hissing sound; hissing; as, s, z, sh, and zh, are sibilant elementary sounds.  -- n.  A sibiliant letter. 

SIBILATE:  To pronounce with a hissing sound, like that of the letter s; to mark with a character indicating such pronunciation. 

SIBILATION:  Utterance with a hissing sound; also, the sound itself; a hiss. He, with a long, low sibilation, stared. Tennyson. 

SIBILATORY:  Hissing; sibilant. 

SIBILOUS:  Having a hissing sound; hissing; sibilant. [R.] Pennant. 

SIBYL:  A woman supposed to be endowed with a spirit of prophecy.  Note: The number of the sibyls is variously stated by different authors; but the opinion of Varro, that there were ten, is generally adopted. They dwelt in various parts of Persia, Greece, and Italy.  2. A female fortune teller; a pythoness; a prophetess. "An old highland sibyl." Sir W. Scott. 

SIBYLIST:  One who believes in a sibyl or the sibylline prophecies. Cudworth. 

SIBYLLINE:  Pertaining to the sibyls; uttered, written, or composed by sibyls; like the productions of sibyls. Sibylline books. (a) (Rom. Antiq.) Books or documents of prophecies in verse concerning the fate of the Roman empire, said to have been purchased by Tarquin the Proud from a sibyl. (b) Certain Jewish and early Christian writings purporting to have been prophetic and of sibylline origin. They date from 100 b. c. to a. d. 500. 

SIC:  Such. [Scot.] 

SIC:  Thus.  Note: This word is sometimes inserted in a quotation [sic], to call attention to the fact that some remarkable or inaccurate expression, misspelling, or the like, is literally reproduced. 

SICAMORE:  See Sycamore. 

SICCA:  A seal; a coining die; -- used adjectively to designate the silver currency of the Mogul emperors, or the Indian rupee of 192 grains. Sicca rupee, an East Indian coin, valued nominally at about two shillings sterling, or fifty cents. 

SICCATE:  To dry. [R.] 

SICCATION:  The act or process of drying. [R.] Bailey. 

SICCATIVE:  Drying; causing to dry.  -- n.  That which promotes drying. 

SICCIFIC:  Causing dryness. 

SICCITY:  Dryness; aridity; destitution of moisture. [Obs.] The siccity and dryness of its flesh. Sir T. Browne. 

SICE:  The number six at dice. 

SICER:  A strong drink; cider. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SICH:  Such. [Obs. or Colloq.] Spenser. 

SICILIAN:  Of or pertaining to Sicily or its inhabitants. Sicilian vespers, the great massacre of the French in Sicily, in the year 1282, on the evening of Easter Monday, at the hour of vespers. 

SICILIAN:  A native or inhabitant of Sicily. 

SICILIANO:  A Sicilian dance, resembling the pastorale, set to a rather slow and graceful melody in 12-8 or 6-8 measure; also, the music to the dance. 

SICILIENNE:  A kind of rich poplin. 

SICK:  Sickness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SICK:  To fall sick; to sicken. [Obs.] Shak.  SICK-BRAINED Sick"-brained`, a.  Disordered in the brain. 

SICKENING:  Causing sickness; specif., causing surfeit or disgust; nauseating.  -- Sick"en*ing*ly, adv. 

SICKER:  To percolate, trickle, or ooze, as water through a crack. [Also written sigger, zigger, and zifhyr.] [Prov. Eng.]  SICKER; SIKER Sick"er, Sik"er, a. Etym: [OE. siker; cf. OS. sikur, LG. seker, D. zeker, Dan. sikker, OHG. sihhur, G. sicher; all fr. L. securus. See Secure, Sure.]  Sure; certain; trusty. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Burns. When he is siker of his good name. Chaucer.  SICKER; SIKER Sick"er, Sik"er, adv.  Surely; certainly. [Obs.] Believe this as siker as your creed. Chaucer. Sicker, Willye, thou warnest well. Spenser.  SICKERLY; SIKERLY Sick"er*ly, Sik"er*ly, adv.  Surely; securely. [Obs.] But sikerly, withouten any fable. Chaucer.  SICKERNESS; SIKERNESS Sick"er*ness, Sik"er*ness, n.  The quality or state of being sicker, or certain. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

SICKLE:  A group of stars in the constellation Leo. See Illust. of Leo. Sickle pod (Bot.), a kind of rock cress (Arabis Canadensis) having very long curved pods. 

SICKLED:  Furnished with a sickle. 

SICKLEMAN:  One who uses a sickle; a reaper. You sunburned sicklemen, of August weary. Shak. 

SICKLER:  One who uses a sickle; a sickleman; a reaper. 

SICKLESS:  Free from sickness. [R.] Give me long breath, young beds, and sickless ease. Marston. 

SICKLIED:  Made sickly. See Sickly, v. 

SICKLINESS:  The quality or state of being sickly. 

SICKLY:  In a sick manner or condition; ill. My people sickly [with ill will] beareth our marriage. Chaucer. 

SICKLY:  To make sick or sickly; -- with over, and probably only in the past participle. [R.] Sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought. Shak. Sentiments sicklied over . . . with that cloying heaviness into which unvaried sweetness is too apt to subside. Jeffrey. 

SICLE:  A shekel. [Obs.] The holy mother brought five sicles and a pair of turtledoves to redeem the Lamb of God. Jer. Taylor. 

SIDA:  A genus of malvaceous plants common in the tropics. All the species are mucilaginous, and some have tough ligneous fibers which are used as a substitute for hemp and flax. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

SIDDOW:  Soft; pulpy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SIDE:  Long; large; extensive. [Obs. or Scot.] Shak. His gown had side sleeves down to mid leg. Laneham. Side action, in breech-loading firearms, a mechanism for operating the breech block, which is moved by a lever that turns sidewise.  -- Side arms, weapons worn at the side, as sword, bayonet, pistols, etc.  -- Side ax, an ax of which the handle is bent to one side.  -- Side-bar rule (Eng. Law.), a rule authorized by the courts to be granted by their officers as a matter of course, without formal application being made to them in open court; -- so called because anciently moved for by the attorneys at side bar, that is, informally. Burril.  -- Side box, a box or inclosed seat on the side of a theater. To insure a side-box station at half price. Cowper. -- Side chain, one of two safety chains connecting a tender with a locomotive, at the sides.  -- Side cut, a canal or road branching out from the main one. [U.S.] -- Side dish, one of the dishes subordinate to the main course.  -- Side glance, a glance or brief look to one side.  -- Side hook (Carp.), a notched piece of wood for clamping a board to something, as a bench.  -- Side lever, a working beam of a side-lever engine.  -- Side-lever engine, a marine steam engine having a working beam of each side of the cylinder, near the bottom of the engine, communicating motion to a crank that is above them.  -- Side pipe (Steam Engine), a steam or exhaust pipe connecting the upper and lower steam chests of the cylinder of a beam engine.  -- Side plane, a plane in which the cutting edge of the iron is at the side of the stock.  -- Side posts (Carp.), posts in a truss, usually placed in pairs, each post set at the same distance from the middle of the truss, for supporting the principal rafters, hanging the tiebeam, etc.  -- Side rod. (a) One of the rods which connect the piston-rod crosshead with the side levers, in a side-lever engine. (b) See Parallel rod, under Parallel.  -- Side screw (Firearms), one of the screws by which the lock is secured to the side of a firearm stock.  -- Side table, a table placed either against the wall or aside from the principal table.  -- Side tool (Mach.), a cutting tool, used in a lathe or planer, having the cutting edge at the side instead of at the point.  -- Side wind, a wind from one side; hence, an indirect attack, or indirect means. Wright. 

SIDE:  To work (a timber or rib) to a certain thickness by trimming the sides.  4. To furnish with a siding; as, to side a house. 

SIDEBOARD:  A piece of dining-room furniture having compartments and shelves for keeping or displaying articles of table service. At a stately sideboard, by the wine, That fragrant smell diffused. Milton. 

SIDEBONE:  A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter and at the sides of the coronet and coffin bone of a horse. J. H. Walsh.  SIDE-CHAIN THEORY Side"-chain` the`o*ry. (Physiol. Chem.)  A theory proposed by Ehrlich as a chemical explanation of immunity phenomena. In brief outline it is as follows: Animal cells and bacteria are complex aggregations of molecules, which are themselves complex. Complex molecules react with one another through certain of their side chains, but only when these side chains have a definite correspondence in structure (this account for the specific action of antitoxins). 

SIDED:  Having (such or so many) sides; -- used in composition; as, one-sided; many-sided. 

SIDEFLASH:  A disruptive discharge between a conductor traversed by an oscillatory current of high frequency (as lightning) and neighboring masses of metal, or between different parts of the same conductor. 

SIDEHILL:  The side or slope of a hill; sloping ground; a descent. [U. S.]  SIDE LINE Side line.  1.  (a) A line pert. or attached to the side of a thing.  (b) Specif., a line for hobbling an animal by connecting the fore and the hind feet of the same side.  2.  (a) A line of goods sold in addition to one's principal articles of trade; a course of business pursued aside from one's regular occupation.  (b) A secondary road; esp., a byroad at right angles to a main road. [Canada] 

SIDELING:  Sidelong; on the side; laterally; also, obliquely; askew. A fellow nailed up maps . . . some sideling, and others upside down. Swift. 

SIDELING:  Inclining to one sidel directed toward one side; sloping; inclined; as, sideling ground. 

SIDELONG:  Lateral; oblique; not being directly in front; as, a sidelong glance. The bashful virgin's sidelong looks of love. Goldsmith. 

SIDEPIECE:  The jamb, or cheek, of an opening in a wall, as of door or window. 

SIDER:  One who takes a side. 

SIDER:  Cider. [Obs.] 

SIDERAL:  Affecting unfavorably by the supposed influence of the stars; baleful. "Sideral blast." Milton. 

SIDERATED:  Planet-struck; blasted. [Obs.] 

SIDERATION:  The state of being siderated, or planet-struck; esp., blast in plants; also, a sudden and apparently causeless stroke of disease, as in apoplexy or paralysis. [Obs.] Ray. 

SIDEREAL:  Measuring by the apparent motion of the stars; designated, marked out, or accompanied, by a return to the same position in respect to the stars; as, the sidereal revolution of a planet; a sidereal day. Sidereal clock, day, month, year. See under Clock, Day, etc.  -- Sideral time, time as reckoned by sideral days, or, taking the sidereal day as the unit, the time elapsed since a transit of the vernal equinox, reckoned in parts of a sidereal day. This is, strictly, apparent sidereal time, mean sidereal time being reckoned from the transit, not of the true, but of the mean, equinoctial point. 

SIDEREALIZE:  To elevate to the stars, or to the region of the stars; to etherealize. German literature transformed, siderealized, as we see it in Goethe, reckons Winckelmann among its initiators. W. Pater. 

SIDEREOUS:  Sidereal. [Obs.] 

SIDERITE:  Any plant of the genus Sideritis; ironwort.  SIDEROGRAPHIC; SIDEROGRAPHICAL Sid`er*o*graph"ic, Sid`er*o*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to siderography; executed by engraved plates of steel; as, siderographic art; siderographic impressions. 

SIDEROGRAPHIST:  One skilled in siderography. 

SIDEROGRAPHY:  The art or practice of steel engraving; especially, the process, invented by Perkins, of multiplying facsimiles of an engraved steel plate by first rolling over it, when hardened, a soft steel cylinder, and then rolling the cylinder, when hardened, over a soft steel plate, which thus becomes a facsimile of the original. The process has been superseded by electrotypy. 

SIDEROLITE:  A kind of meteorite. See under Meteorite. 

SIDEROMANCY:  Divination by burning straws on red-hot iron, and noting the manner of their burning. Craig. 

SIDEROSCOPE:  An instrument for detecting small quantities of iron in any substance by means of a very delicate combination of magnetic needles. 

SIDEROSIS:  A sort of pneumonia occuring in iron workers, produced by the inhalation of particles of iron. 

SIDEROSTAT:  An apparatus consisting essentially of a mirror moved by clockwork so as to throw the rays of the sun or a star in a fixed direction; -- a more general term for heliostat. 

SIDEROXYLON:  A genus of tropical sapotaceous trees noted for their very hard wood; ironwood. 

SIDESADDLE:  A saddle for women, in which the rider sits with both feet on one side of the animal mounted. Sidesaddle flower (Bot.), a plant with hollow leaves and curiously shaped flowers; -- called also huntsman's cup. See Sarracenia.  SIDE SLIP Side slip.  See Skid, below.  SIDE-SLIP Side"-slip`, v. i.  See Skid, below. 

SIDESMAN:  A taking sides, as with a party, sect, or faction. Bp. Hall. 

SIDEWALK:  A walk for foot passengers at the side of a street or road; a foot pavement. [U.S.] 

SIDEWAYS:  Toward the side; sidewise. A second refraction made sideways. Sir I. Newton. His beard, a good palm's length, at least, . . . Shot sideways, like a swallow's wings. Longfellow.  SIDE-WHEEL Side"-wheel`, a.  Having a paddle wheel on each side; -- said of steam vessels; as, a side-wheel steamer. 

SIDEWISE:  On or toward one side; laterally; sideways. I saw them mask their awful glance Sidewise meek in gossamer lids. Emerson. 

SIDING:  The covering of the outside wall of a frame house, whether made of weatherboards, vertical boarding with cleats, shingles, or the like.  4. (Shipbuilding)  The thickness of a rib or timber, measured, at right angles with its side, across the curved edge; as, a timber having a siding of ten inches. 

SIDLE:  To go or move with one side foremost; to move sidewise; as, to sidle through a crowd or narrow opening. Swift. He . . . then sidled close to the astonished girl. Sir W. Scott. 

SIEGE:  To besiege; to beset. [R.] Through all the dangers that can siege The life of man. Buron. 

SIEGEWORK:  A temporary fort or parallel where siege guns are mounted.  SIEMENS-MARTIN PROCESS Sie"mens-Mar`tin proc"ess.  See Open-hearth process, etc., under Open.  SIEMENS-MARTIN STEEL Sie"mens-Mar"tin steel.  See Open-hearth steel, under Open. 

SIENITE:  See Syenite. 

SIENITIC:  See Syenitic. 

SIENNA:  Clay that is colored red or brown by the oxides of iron or manganese, and used as a pigment. It is used either in the raw state or burnt. Burnt sienna, sienna made of a much redder color by the action of fire.  -- Raw sienna, sienna in its natural state, of a transparent yellowish brown color. 

SIENNESE:  Of or pertaining to Sienna, a city of Italy. 

SIERRA:  A ridge of mountain and craggy rocks, with a serrated or irregular outline; as, the Sierra Nevada. The wild sierra overhead. Whitter. 

SIESTA:  A short sleep taken about the middle of the day, or after dinner; a midday nap. 

SIEUR:  Sir; -- a title of respect used by the French. 

SIEVA:  A small variety of the Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus). 

SIFAC:  The white indris of Madagascar. It is regarded by the natives as sacred. 

SIFFLEMENT:  The act of whistling or hissing; a whistling sound; sibilation. [Obs.] A. Brewer. 

SIFILET:  The six-shafted bird of paradise. See Paradise bird, under Paradise. 

SIFTER:  Any lamellirostral bird, as a duck or goose; -- so called because it sifts or strains its food from the water and mud by means of the lamell 

SIG:  Urine. [Prov. Eng.] 

SIGAULTIAN:  Pertaining to Sigault, a French physician. See Symphyseotomy. 

SIGGER:  Same as Sicker. [Prov. Eng.] 

SIGH:  Sorrowful; mournful. [R.] "Sigh-born thoughts." De Quincey. 

SIGHER:  One who sighs. 

SIGHING:  Uttering sighs; grieving; lamenting. "Sighing millions." Cowper.  -- Sigh"ing*ly, adv. 

SIGHT:  To take aim by a sight. 

SIGHTED:  Having sight, or seeing, in a particular manner; -- used in composition; as, long-sighted, short-sighted, quick-sighted, sharp- sighted, and the like. 

SIGHTFUL:  Easily or clearly seen; distinctly visible; perspicuous. [Obs.] Testament of Love. 

SIGHTFULNESS:  The state of being sightful; perspicuity. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.  SIGHT-HOLE Sight"-hole`, n.  A hole for looking through; a peephole. "Stop all sight-holes." Shak. 

SIGHTING:  from Sight, v. t. Sighting shot, a shot made to ascertain whether the sights of a firearm are properly adjusted; a trial shot. 

SIGHTLINESS:  The state of being sightly; comeliness; conspicuousness. 

SIGHTPROOF:  Undiscoverable to sight. Hidden in their own sightproof bush. Lowell.  SIGHT-SEEING Sight"-see`ing, a.  Engaged in, or given to, seeing sights; eager for novelties or curiosities.  SIGHT-SEEING Sight"-see`ing, n.  The act of seeing sights; eagerness for novelties or curiosities.  SIGHT-SEER Sight"-se`er, n.  One given to seeing sights or noted things, or eager for novelties or curiosities.  SIGHT-SHOT Sight"-shot`, n.  Distance to which the sight can reach or be thrown. [R.] Cowley. 

SIGHTSMAN:  One who reads or performs music readily at first sight. [R.] Busby. 

SIGIL:  A seal; a signature. Dryden. Of talismans and sigils knew the power. Pope. 

SIGILLARIA:  Little images or figures of earthenware exposed for sale, or given as presents, on the last two days of the Saturnalia; hence, the last two, or the sixth and seventh, days of the Saturnalia. 

SIGILLARIA:  A genus of fossil trees principally found in the coal formation; -- so named from the seallike leaf scars in vertical rows on the surface. 

SIGILLARID:  One of an extinct family of cryptagamous trees, including the genus Sigillaria and its allies. 

SIGILLATED:  Decorated by means of stamps; -- said of pottery. 

SIGILLATIVE:  Fit to seal; belonging to a seal; composed of wax. [R.] 

SIGILLUM:  A seal. 

SIGLA:  The signs, abbreviations, letters, or characters standing for words, shorthand, etc., in ancient manuscripts, or on coins, medals, etc. W. Savage. 

SIGMA:  The Greek letter S, or s). It originally had the form of the English C. 

SIGMODONT:  Any one of a tribe (Sigmodontes) of rodents which includes all the indigenous rats and mice of America. So called from the form of the ridges of enamel on the crowns of the worn molars. Also used adjectively.  SIGMOID; SIGMOIDAL Sig"moid, Sig*moid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. sigmoïde.]  Curved in two directions, like the letter S, or the Greek s. Sigmoid flexure (Anat.), the last curve of the colon before it terminates in the rectum. See Illust. under Digestive.  -- Sigmoid valves. (Anat.) See Semilunar valves, under Semilunar. 

SIGMOIDALLY:  In a sigmoidal manner. 

SIGN:  That by which anything is made known or represented; that which furnishes evidence; a mark; a token; an indication; a proof. Specifically: (a) A remarkable event, considered by the ancients as indicating the will of some deity; a prodigy; an omen. (b) An event considered by the Jews as indicating the divine will, or as manifesting an interposition of the divine power for some special end; a miracle; a wonder. Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God. Rom. xv. 19. It shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neither hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign. Ex. iv. 8.  (c) Something serving to indicate the existence, or preserve the memory, of a thing; a token; a memorial; a monument. What time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men, and they became a sign. Num. xxvi. 10.  (d) Any symbol or emblem which prefigures, typifles, or represents, an idea; a type; hence, sometimes, a picture. The holy symbols, or signs, are not barely significative; but what they represent is as certainly delivered to us as the symbols themselves. Brerewood. Saint George of Merry England, the sign of victory. Spenser.  (e) A word or a character regarded as the outward manifestation of thought; as, words are the sign of ideas. (f) A motion, an action, or a gesture by which a thought is expressed, or a command or a wish made known. They made signs to his father, how he would have him called. Luke i. 62.  (g) Hence, one of the gestures of pantomime, or of a language of a signs such as those used by the North American Indians, or those used by the deaf and dumb.  Note: Educaters of the deaf distinguish between natural signs, which serve for communicating ideas, and methodical, or systematic, signs, adapted for the dictation, or the rendering, of written language, word by word; and thus the signs are to be distinguished from the manual alphabet, by which words are spelled on the fingers. (h) A military emblem carried on a banner or a standard. Milton. (i) A lettered board, or other conspicuous notice, placed upon or before a building, room, shop, or office to advertise the business there transacted, or the name of the person or firm carrying it on; a publicly displayed token or notice. The shops were, therefore, distinguished by painted signs, which gave a gay and grotesque aspect to the streets. Macaulay. (j) (Astron.)  The twelfth part of the ecliptic or zodiac.  Note: The signs are reckoned from the point of intersection of the ecliptic and equator at the vernal equinox, and are named, respectively, Aries (Taurus (Gemini (II), Cancer (Leo (Virgo (Libra (Scorpio (Sagittarius (Capricornus (Aquarius (Pisces ( (k) (Alg.) A character indicating the relation of quantities, or an operation performed upon them; as, the sign + (plus); the sign -- (minus); the sign of division ÷, and the like. (l) (Med.) An objective evidence of disease; that is, one appreciable by some one other than the patient.  Note: The terms symptom and and sign are often used synonymously; but they may be discriminated. A sign differs from a symptom in that the latter is perceived only by the patient himself. The term sign is often further restricted to the purely local evidences of disease afforded by direct examination of the organs involved, as distinguished from those evidence of general disturbance afforded by observation of the temperature, pulse, etc. In this sense it is often called physical sign. (m) (Mus.) Any character, as a flat, sharp, dot, etc. (n) (Theol.) That which, being external, stands for, or signifies, something internal or spiritual; -- a term used in the Church of England in speaking of an ordinance considered with reference to that which it represents. An outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace. Bk. of Common Prayer.  Note: See the Table of Arbitrary Signs, p. 1924. Sign manual. (a) (Eng. Law) The royal signature superscribed at the top of bills of grants and letter patent, which are then sealed with the privy signet or great seal, as the case may be, to complete their validity. (b) The signature of one's name in one's own handwriting. Craig. Tomlins. Wharton.  Syn.  -- Token; mark; note; symptom; indication; signal; symbol; type; omen; prognostic; presage; manifestation. See Emblem. 

SIGNABLE:  Suitable to be signed; requiring signature; as, a legal document signable by a particular person. 

SIGNALIST:  One who makes signals; one who communicates intelligence by means of signals. 

SIGNALITY:  The quality or state of being signal or remarkable. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SIGNALLY:  In a signal manner; eminently. 

SIGNALMAN:  A man whose business is to manage or display signals; especially, one employed in setting the signals by which railroad trains are run or warned. 

SIGNALMENT:  The act of signaling, or of signalizing; hence, description by peculiar, appropriate, or characteristic marks. Mrs. Browning. 

SIGNATE:  Having definite color markings. 

SIGNATION:  Sign given; marking. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SIGNATORY:  A signer; one who signs or subscribes; as, a conference of signatories. 

SIGNATURE:  An outward mark by which internal characteristics were supposed to be indicated. Some plants bear a very evident signature of their nature and use. Dr. H. More.  4. (Old Med.)  A resemblance between the external characters of a disease and those of some physical agent, for instance, that existing between the red skin of scarlet fever and a red cloth; -- supposed to indicate this agent in the treatment of the disease.  5. (Mus.)  The designation of the key (when not C major, or its relative, A minor) by means of one or more sharps or flats at the beginning of the staff, immediately after the clef, affecting all notes of the same letter throughout the piece or movement. Each minor key has the same signature as its relative major.  6. (Print.) (a) A letter or figure placed at the bottom of the first page of each sheet of a book or pamphlet, as a direction to the binder in arranging and folding the sheets. (b) The printed sheet so marked, or the form from which it is printed; as, to reprint one or more signatures.  Note: Star signatures (as A*, 1*) are the same characters, with the addition of asterisks, used on the first pages of offcuts, as in 12mo sheets.  7. (Pharm.)  That part of a prescription which contains the directions to the patient. It is usually prefaced by S or Sig. (an abbreviation for the Latin signa, imperative of signare to sign or mark). 

SIGNATURE:  To mark with, or as with, a signature or signatures. 

SIGNATURIST:  One who holds to the doctrine of signatures impressed upon objects, indicative of character or qualities. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SIGNBOARD:  A board, placed on or before a shop, office, etc., on which ssome notice is given, as the name of a firm, of a business, or the like. 

SIGNER:  One who signs or subscribes his name; as, a memorial with a hundred signers. 

SIGNET:  A seal; especially, in England, the seal used by the sovereign in sealing private letters and grants that pass by bill under the sign manual; -- called also privy signet. I had my father's signet in my purse. Shak. Signet ring, a ring containing a signet or private seal.  -- Writer to the signet (Scots Law), a judicial officer who prepares warrants, writs, etc.; originally, a clerk in the office of the secretary of state. 

SIGNETED:  Stamped or marked with a signet. 

SIGNIFER:  Bearing signs. [Obs.] "The signifer sphere, or zodiac." Holland.  SIGNIFICANCE; SIGNIFICANCY Sig*nif"i*cance, Sig*nif"i*can*cy, n. Etym: [L. significantia.]  1. The quality or state of being significant.  2. That which is signified; meaning; import; as, the significance of a nod, of a motion of the hand, or of a word or expression.  3. Importance; moment; weight; consequence. With this brain I must work, in order to give significancy and value to the few facts which I possess. De Quincey. 

SIGNIFICANT:  That which has significance; a sign; a token; a symbol. Wordsworth. In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts. Shak. 

SIGNIFICANTLY:  In a significant manner. 

SIGNIFICATE:  One of several things signified by a common term. Whately. 

SIGNIFICATOR:  One who, or that which, signifies. In this diagram there was one significator which pressed remarkably upon our astrologer's attention. Sir W. Scott. 

SIGNIFICATORY:  Significant.  -- n.  That which is significatory. 

SIGNIFICAVIT:  Formerly, a writ issuing out of chancery, upon certificate given by the ordinary, of a man's standing excommunicate by the space of forty days, for the laying him up in prison till he submit himself to the authority of the church. Crabb. 

SIGNIOR:  Sir; Mr. The English form and pronunciation for the Italian Signor and the Spanish Señor. 

SIGNIORIZE:  To exercise dominion over; to lord it over. [Obs.] Shelton. 

SIGNIORIZE:  To exercise dominion; to signiorize. [Obs.] Hewyt. 

SIGNIORSHIP:  State or position of a signior. 

SIGNIORY:  Same as Seigniory.  SIGNOR; SIGNORE Si*gnor", Si*gno"re, n. Etym: [It. See Seignior.]  Sir; Mr; -- a title of address or respect among the Italians. Before a noun the form is Signor. 

SIGNORA:  Madam; Mrs; -- a title of address or respect among the Italians. 

SIGNORINA:  Miss; -- a title of address among the Italians. 

SIGNPOST:  A post on which a sign hangs, or on which papers are placed to give public notice of anything.  SIK; SIKE Sik, Sike, a.  Such. See Such. [Obs.] "Sike fancies weren foolerie." Spenser. 

SIKE:  A gutter; a stream, such as is usually dry in summer. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SIKE:  A sick person. [Prov. Eng.] 

SIKE:  To sigh. [Obs.] That for his wife weepeth and siketh sore. Chaucer. 

SIKE:  A sigh. [Obs.] Chaucer.  SIKER; SIKERLY; SIKERNESS Sik"er, a. & adv., Sik"er*ly, adv., Sik"er*ness, n., etc.  See 2d Sicker, Sickerly, etc. [Obs.] 

SIKHS:  A religious sect noted for warlike traits, founded in the Punjab at the end of the 15th century. 

SILAGE:  Short for Ensilage. 

SILE:  To strain, as fresh milk. [Prov. Eng.] 

SILE:  To drop; to flow; to fall. [Prov. Eng.] 

SILE:  A young or small herring. [Eng.] Pennant. 

SILENCE:  Be silent; -- used elliptically for let there be silence, or keep silence. Shak. 

SILENE:  A genus of caryophyllaceous plants, usually covered with a viscid secretion by which insects are caught; catchfly. Bon Silène. See Silène, in the Vocabulary. 

SILENT:  Not pronounced; having no sound; quiescent; as, e is silent in "fable."  5. Having no effect; not operating; inefficient. [R.] Cause . . . silent, virtueless, and dead. Sir W. Raleigh. Silent partner. See Dormant partner, under Dormant.  Syn.  -- Mute; taciturn; dumb; speechless; quiet; still. See Mute, and Taciturn. 

SILENT:  That which is silent; a time of silence. [R.] "The silent of the night." Shak. 

SILENTIARY:  One appointed to keep silence and order in court; also, one sworn not to divulge secre 

SILENTIOUS:  Habitually silent; taciturn; reticent. [R.] 

SILENTLY:  In a silent manner. 

SILENTNESS:  State of being silent; silence. 

SILENUS:  See Wanderoo. 

SILESIAN:  Of or pertaining to Silesia.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Silesia. 

SILEX:  Silica, SiO2 as found in nature, constituting quarz, and most sands and sandstones. See Silica, and Silicic. 

SILHOUETTE:  A representation of the outlines of an object filled in with a black color; a profile portrait in black, such as a shadow appears to be. 

SILHOUETTE:  To represent by a silhouette; to project upon a background, so as to be like a silhouette. [Recent] A flock of roasting vultures silhouetted on the sky. The Century. 

SILICA:  Silicon dioxide, SiO 

SILICATE:  A salt of silicic acid.  Note: In mineralogical chemistry the silicates include; the unisilicates or orthosilicates, salts of orthosilicic acid; the bisilicates or metasilicates, salts of metasilicic acid; the polysilicates or acid silicates, salts of the polysilicic acids; the basic silicates or subsilicates, in which the equivalent of base is greater than would be required to neutralize the acid; and the hydrous silicates, including the zeolites and many hydrated decomposition products. 

SILICATED:  Combined or impregnated with silicon or silica; as, silicated hydrogen; silicated rocks. Silicated soap, a hard soap containing silicate of soda. 

SILICATIZATION:  Silicification. 

SILICEA:  Same as Silicoidea. 

SILICEOUS:  Of or pertaining to silica; containing silica, or partaking of its nature. [Written also silisious.] 

SILICIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, silica; specifically, designating compounds of silicon; as, silicic acid. Silicic acid (Chem.), an amorphous gelatinous substance, Si(HO)4, very unstable and easily dried to silica, but forming many stable salts; -- called also orthosilicic, or normal silicic, acid. 

SILICICALCAREOUS:  Consisting of silica and calcareous matter. 

SILICIDE:  A binary compound of silicon, or one regarded as binary. [R.] Hydrogen silicide (Chem.), a colorless, spontaneously inflammable gas, SiH4, produced artifically from silicon, and analogous to methane; -- called also silico-methane, silicon hydride, and formerly siliciureted hydrogen. 

SILICIFEROUS:  Producing silica; united with silica. 

SILICIFICATION:  Thae act or process of combining or impregnating with silicon or silica; the state of being so combined or impregnated; as, the silicification of wood. 

SILICIFIED:  Combined or impregnated with silicon or silica, especially the latter; as, silicified wood. 

SILICIFY:  To convert into, or to impregnate with, silica, or with the compounds of silicon. The specimens found . . . are completely silicified. Say.  Note: The silica may take the form of agate, chalcedony, flint, hornstone, or crystalline quartz. 

SILICIFY:  To become converted into silica, or to be impregnated with silica. 

SILICIOIDEA:  Same as Silicoidea. 

SILICIOUS:  See Siliceous. 

SILICISPONGIAE:  Same as Silicoidea. 

SILICITED:  Silicified. [Obs.] 

SILICIUM:  See Silicon. 

SILICIURETED:  Combined or impregnated with silicon. [Obsoles.] Siliciureted hydrogen. (Chem.) Hydrogen silicide. [Obs.] 

SILICLE:  A seed vessel resembling a silique, but about as broad as it is long. See Silique.  SILICO- Sil"i*co-. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of silicon or its compounds; as, silicobenzoic, silicofluoride, etc. 

SILICOFLUORIC:  Containing, or composed of, silicon and fluorine; especially, denoting the compounds called silicofluorides. Silicofluoric acid (Chem.), a compound of hydrofluoric acid and silicon fluoride, known only in watery solution. It is produced by the action of silicon fluoride on water, and is regarded as an acid, H2SiF6, and the type and origin of the silicofluorides. 

SILICOFLUORIDE:  A fluosilicate; a salt of silicofluoric acid. 

SILICOIDEA:  An extensive order of Porifera, which includes those that have the skeleton composed mainly of siliceous fibers or spicules. 

SILICON:  A nonmetalic element analogous to carbon. It always occurs combined in nature, and is artificially obtained in the free state, usually as a dark brown amorphous powder, or as a dark crystalline substance with a meetallic luster. Its oxide is silica, or common quartz, and in this form, or as silicates, it is, next to oxygen, the most abundant element of the earth's crust. Silicon is characteristically the element of the mineral kingdom, as carbon is of the organic world. Symbol Si. Atomic weight 28. Called also silicium. 

SILICOTUNGSTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of a series of double acids of silicon and tungsten, known in the free state, and also in their salts (called silicotungstates). 

SILICULA:  A silicle. 

SILICULE:  A silicle. 

SILICULOSE:  Bearing silicles; pertaining to, or resembling, silicles.  2. Full of, or consisting of, husks; husky. [Obs.] 

SILIGINOSE:  Made of fine wheat. [Obs.] Bailey. 

SILING:  from Sile to strain. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] Siling dish, a colander. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SILIQUA:  Same as Silique.  2. A weight of four grains; a carat; -- a term used by jewelers, and refiners of gold. 

SILIQUE:  An oblong or elongated seed vessel, consisting of two valves with a dissepiment between, and opening by sutures at either margin. The seeds are attached to both edges of the dissepiment, alternately upon each side of it. 

SILIQUIFORM:  Having the form of a silique. 

SILIQUOSA:  A Linnæan order of plants including those which bear siliques.  SILIQUOSE; SILIQUOUS Sil"i*quose`, Sil"i*quous, a. Etym: [NL. siliquosus: cf. F. siliqueux.] (Bot.)  Bearing siliques; as, siliquose plants; pertaining to, or resembling, siliques; as, siliquose capsules. 

SILKEN:  To render silken or silklike. Dyer. 

SILKMAN:  A dealer in silks; a silk mercer. Shak. 

SILKNESS:  Silkiness. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  SILK-STOCKING Silk"-stock`ing, a.  Wearing silk stockings (which among men were formerly worn chiefly by the luxurious or aristocratic); hence, elegantly dressed; aristocratic; luxurious; -- chiefly applied to men, often by way of reproach.  [They] will find their levees crowded with silk-stocking gentry, but no yeomanry; an army of officers without soldiers. Jefferson. 

SILKWEED:  Any plant of the genera Asclepias and Acerates whose seed vessels contain a long, silky down; milkweed. 

SILKWORM:  The larva of any one of numerous species of bombycid moths, which spins a large amount of strong silk in constructing its cocoon before changing to a pupa.  Note: The common species (Bombyx mori) feeds onm the leaves of the white mulberry tree. It is native of China, but has long been introduced into other countries of Asia and Europe, and is reared on a large scale. In America it is reared only to small extent. The Ailanthus silkworm (Philosamia cynthia) is a much larger species, of considerable importance, which has been introduced into Europe and America from China. The most useful American species is the Polyphemus. See Polyphemus. Pernyi silkworm, the larva of the Pernyi moth. See Pernyi moth.  -- Silkworm gut, a substance prepared from the contents of the silk glands of silkworms and used in making lines for angling. See Gut.  -- Silkworm rot, a disease of silkworms; muscardine. 

SILL:  The basis or foundation of a thing; especially, a horizontal piece, as a timber, which forms the lower member of a frame, or supports a structure; as, the sills of a house, of a bridge, of a loom, and the like. Hence: (a) The timber or stone at the foot of a door; the threshold. (b) The timber or stone on which a window frame stands; or, the lowest piece in a window frame. (c) The floor of a gallery or passage in a mine. (d) A piece of timber across the bottom of a canal lock for the gates to shut against. Sill course (Arch.), a horizontal course of stone, terra cotta, or the like, built into a wall at the level of one or more window sills, these sills often forming part of it. 

SILL:  The shaft or thill of a carriage. [Prov. Eng.] 

SILL:  A young herring. [Eng.] 

SILLABUB:  A dish made by mixing wine or cider with milk, and thus forming a soft curd; also, sweetened cream, flavored with wine and beaten to a stiff froth. [Written also syllabub.] 

SILLER:  Silver. [Scot.] 

SILLILY:  In a silly manner; foolishly. Dryden. 

SILLIMANITE:  Same as Fibrolite. 

SILLINESS:  The quality or state of being silly. 

SILLOCK:  The pollock, or coalfish. 

SILLON:  A work raised in the middle of a wide ditch, to defend it. Crabb. 

SILLYHOW:  A caul. See Caul, n., 3. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SILO:  A pit or vat for packing away green fodder for winter use so as to exclude air and outside moisture. See Ensilage. 

SILT:  Mud or fine earth deposited from running or standing water. 

SILT:  To choke, fill, or obstruct with silt or mud. 

SILT:  To flow through crevices; to percolate. 

SILTY:  Full of silt; resembling silt. 

SILUNDUM:  A form of silicon carbide, produced in the electric furnace, possessing great hardness, and high electrical resistance, and not subject to oxidation below 2880º F., or 1600º C. 

SILURE:  A fish of the genus Silurus, as the sheatfish; a siluroid. 

SILURIAN:  Of or pertaining to the country of the ancient Silures; -- a term applied to the earliest of the Paleozoic eras, and also to the strata of the era, because most plainly developed in that country.  Note: The Silurian formation, so named by Murchison, is divided into the Upper Silurian and Lower Silurian. The lower part of the Lower Silurian, with some underlying beds, is now separated under the name Cambrian, first given by Sedwick. Recently the term Ordovician has been proposed for the Lower Silurian, leawing the original word to apply only to the Upper Silurian. 

SILURIAN:  The Silurian age. 

SILURIDAN:  Any fish of the family Silurid or of the order Siluroidei. 

SILUROID:  Belonging to the Siluroidei, or Nematognathi, an order of fishes including numerous species, among which are the American catfishes and numerous allied fresh-water species of the Old World, as the sheatfish (Silurus glanis) of Europe.  -- n.  A siluroid fish. 

SILUROIDEI:  An order of fishes, the Nematognathi. 

SILURUS:  A genus of large malacopterygious fishes of the order Siluroidei. They inhabit the inland waters of Europe and Asia. 

SILVAN:  Of or pertaining to woods; composed of woods or groves; woody. [Written also sylvan.] Betwixt two rows of rocks, a silvan scene Appears above, and groves forever green. Dryden. 

SILVAN:  See Sylvanium. [Obs.] 

SILVANITE:  See Sylvanite.  SILVAS; SELVAS Sil"vas or Sel"vas, n. pl. Etym: [L. silva a forest, Sp. selva.]  Vast woodland plains of South America. 

SILVATE:  Same as Sylvate. 

SILVER:  A soft white metallic element, sonorous, ductile, very malleable, and capable of a high degree of polish. It is found native, and also combined with sulphur, arsenic, antimony, chlorine, etc., in the minerals argentite, proustite, pyrargyrite, ceragyrite, etc. Silver is one of the "noble" metals, so-called, not being easily oxidized, and is used for coin, jewelry, plate, and a great variety of articles. Symbol Ag (Argentum). Atomic weight 107.7. Specific gravity 10.5.  Note: Silver was known under the name of luna to the ancients and also to the alchemists. Some of its compounds, as the halogen salts, are remarkable for the effect of light upon them, and are used in photography.  2. Coin made of silver; silver money.  3. Anything having the luster or appearance of silver.  4. The color of silver.  Note: Silver is used in the formation of many compounds of obvious meaning; as, silver-armed, silver-bright, silver-buskined, silver- coated, silver-footed, silver-haired, silver-headed, silver-mantled, silver-plated, silver-slippered, silver-sounding, silver-studded, silver-tongued, silver-white. See Silver, a. Black silver (Min.), stephanite; -- called also brittle silver ore, or brittle silver glance.  -- Fulminating silver. (Chem.) (a) A black crystalline substance, Ag2O.(NH3)2, obtained by dissolving silver oxide in aqua ammonia. When dry it explodes violently on the slightest percussion. (b) Silver fulminate, a white crystalline substance, Ag2C2N2O2, obtained by adding alcohol to a solution of silver nitrate. When dry it is violently explosive.  -- German silver. (Chem.) See under German.  -- Gray silver. (Min.) See Freieslebenite.  -- Horn silver. (Min.) See Cerargyrite.  -- King's silver. (O. Eng. Law) See Postfine.  -- Red silver, or Ruby silver. (Min.) See Proustite, and Pyrargyrite.  -- Silver beater, one who beats silver into silver leaf or silver foil.  -- Silver glance, or Vitreous silver. (Min.) See Argentine. 

SILVER:  To acquire a silvery color. [R.] The eastern sky began to silver and shine. L. Wallace. 

SILVERBACK:  The knot. 

SILVERBERRY:  A tree or shrub (Elæagnus argentea) with silvery foliage and fruit. Gray. 

SILVERBILL:  An Old World finch of the genus Minia, as the M. Malabarica of India, and M. cantans of Africa. 

SILVERBOOM:  See Leucadendron.  SILVER CERTIFICATE Sil"ver cer*tif"i*cate.  A certificate issued by a government that there has been deposited with it silver to a specified amount, payable to the bearer on demand. In the United States and its possessions, it is issued against the deposit of silver coin, and is not legal tender, but is receivable for customs, taxes, and all public dues. 

SILVERFIN:  A small North American fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Notropis Whipplei). 

SILVERFISH:  Having a gray color with a silvery luster; as, silver-gray hair. 

SILVERINESS:  The state of being silvery. 

SILVERING:  The art or process of covering metals, wood, paper, glass, etc., with a thin film of metallic silver, or a substance resembling silver; also, the firm do laid on; as, the silvering of a glass speculum. 

SILVERITE:  One who favors the use or establishment of silver as a monetary standard; -- so called by those who favor the gold standard. [Colloq. or Cant] 

SILVERIZE:  To cover with silver. 

SILVERLESS:  Having no silcver; hence, without money; impecunious. Piers Plowman. 

SILVERLING:  A small silver coin. [Obs.] A thousand vines at a thousand silverings. Isa. vii. 23. 

SILVERLY:  Like silver in appearance or in sound. Let me wipe off this honorable dew, That silverly doth progress on thy cheeks. Shak. 

SILVERN:  Made of silver. [Archaic.] Wyclif (Acts xix. 24). Speech is silvern; silence is golden. Old Proverb. 

SILVERSIDES:  Any one of several species of small fishes of the family Atherinidæ, having a silvery stripe along each side of the body. The common species of the American coast (Menidia notata) is very abundant. Called also silverside, sand smelt, friar, tailor, and tinker. Brook silversides (Zoöl.), a small fresh-water North American fish (Labadesthes sicculus) related to the marine silversides. 

SILVERSMITH:  One whose occupation is to manufacture utensils, ornaments, etc., of silver; a worker in silver. 

SILVERSPOT:  Any one of numerous species of butterflies of the genus Argynnis and allied genera, having silvery spots on the under side of the wings. See Illust. under Aphrodite.  SILVER STATE Silver State.  Nevada; -- a nickname alluding to its silver mines. 

SILVERWARE:  Dishes, vases, ornaments, and utensils of various sorts, made of silver. 

SILVERWEED:  A perennial rosaceous herb (Potentilla Anserina) having the leaves silvery white beneath. 

SILVICULTURE:  See Sylviculture. 

SIMA:  A cyma. 

SIMAGRE:  A grimace. [Obs.] Dryden. 

SIMAR:  A woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf. [Written also cimar, cymar, samare, simare.] 

SIMARRE:  See Simar. Sir W. Scott. 

SIMBLOT:  The harness of a drawloom. 

SIMIA:  A Linnæan genus of Quadrumana which included the types of numerous modern genera. By modern writers it is usually restricted to the genus which includes the orang-outang. 

SIMIAL:  Simian; apelike. 

SIMIAN:  Of or pertaining to the family Simiadæ, which, in its widest sense, includes all the Old World apes and monkeys; also, apelike.  -- n.  Any Old World monkey or ape. 

SIMILAR:  That which is similar to, or resembles, something else, as in quality, form, etc. 

SIMILARITY:  The quality or state of being similar; likeness; resemblance; as, a similarity of features. Hardly is there a similarity detected between two or three facts, than men hasten to extend it to all. Sir W. Hamilton. 

SIMILARLY:  In a similar manner. 

SIMILARY:  Similar. [Obs.] Rhyming cadences of similarly words. South. 

SIMILATIVE:  Implying or indicating likeness or resemblance. [R.] In similative or instrumental relation to a pa. pple. [past participle], as almond-leaved, -scented, etc. New English Dict. 

SIMILE:  A word or phrase by which anything is likened, in one or more of its aspects, to something else; a similitude; a poetical or imaginative comparison. A good swift simile, but something currish. Shak. 

SIMILITER:  The technical name of the form by which either party, in pleading, accepts the issue tendered by his opponent; -- called sometimes a joinder in issue. 

SIMILITUDINARY:  Involving or expressing similitude. [Obs.] Coke. 

SIMILIZE:  To liken; to compare; as, to similize a person, thing, or act. Lowell. 

SIMILOR:  An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, but of a golden color. Ure. 

SIMIOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Simian. That strange simious, schoolboy passion of giving pain to others. Sydney Smith. 

SIMITAR:  See Scimiter. 

SIMMER:  To boil gently, or with a gentle hissing; to begin to boil. I simmer as liquor doth on the fire before it beginneth to boil. Palsgrave. 

SIMMER:  To cause to boil gently; to cook in liquid heated almost or just to the boiling point. 

SIMONIAC:  One who practices simony, or who buys or sells preferment in the church. Ayliffe. 

SIMONIACAL:  Of or pertaining to simony; guilty of simony; consisting of simony.  -- Sim"o*ni`a*cal*ly, adv. The flagitious profligacy of their lives, and the simoniacal arts by which they grasped at the popedom. J. S. Harford. 

SIMONIAL:  Simoniacal. [Obs.] 

SIMONIAN:  One of the followers of Simon Magus; also, an adherent of certain heretical sects in the early Christian church. 

SIMONIOUS:  Simoniacal. [Obs.] Milton. 

SIMONIST:  One who practices simony.  SIMON-PURE Si"mon-pure", a.  Genuine; true; real; authentic; -- a term alluding to the comedy character Simon Pure, who is impersonated by another and is obliged to prove himself to be the "real Simon Pure." 

SIMONY:  The crime of buying or selling ecclesiastical preferment; the corrupt presentation of any one to an ecclesiastical benefice for money or reward. Piers Plowman.  SIMOOM; SIMOON Si*moom", Si*moon", n. Etym: [Ar. sam, fr. samma to poison. Cf. Samiel.]  A hot, dry, suffocating, dust-laden wind, that blows occasionally in Arabia, Syria, and neighboring countries, generated by the extreme heat of the parched deserts or sandy plains. 

SIMOUS:  Having a very flat or snub nose, with the end turned up. 

SIMPAI:  A long-tailed monkey (Semnopitchecus melalophus) native of Sumatra. It has a crest of black hair. The forehead and cheeks are fawn color, the upper parts tawny and red, the under parts white. Called also black-crested monkey, and sinpæ. 

SIMPER:  A constrained, self-conscious smile; an affected, silly smile; a smirk. The conscious simper, and the jealous leer. Pope. 

SIMPERER:  One who simpers. Sir W. Scott. A simperer that a court affords. T. Nevile. 

SIMPERING:  from Simper, v. 

SIMPERINGLY:  In a simpering manner. 

SIMPLE:  Without subdivisions; entire; as, a simple stem; a simple leaf.  11. (Chem.)  Not capable of being decomposed into anything more simple or ultimate by any means at present known; elementary; thus, atoms are regarded as simple bodies. Cf. Ultimate, a.  Note: A simple body is one that has not as yet been decomposed. There are indications that many of our simple elements are still compound bodies, though their actual decomposition into anything simpler may never be accomplished.fundamental particle  12. (Min.)  Homogenous.  13. (Zoöl.)  Consisting of a single individual or zooid; as, a simple ascidian; -- opposed to compound. Simple contract (Law), any contract, whether verbal or written, which is not of record or under seal. J. W. Smith. Chitty.  -- Simple equation (Alg.), an eqyation containing but one unknown quantity, and that quantity only in the first degree.  -- Simple eye (Zoöl.), an eye having a single lens; -- opposed to Ant: compound eye.  -- Simple interest. See under Interest.  -- Simple larceny. (Law) See under Larceny.  -- Simple obligation (Rom. Law), an obligation which does not depend for its execution upon any event provided for by the parties, or is not to become void on the happening of any such event. Burrill.  Syn.  -- Single; uncompounded; unmingled; unmixed; mere; uncombined; elementary; plain; artless; sincere; harmless; undesigning; frank; open; unaffected; inartificial; unadorned; credulous; silly; foolish; shallow; unwise.  -- Simple, Silly. One who is simple is sincere, unaffected, and inexperienced in duplicity, -- hence liable to be duped. A silly person is one who is ignorant or weak and also self-confident; hence, one who shows in speech and act a lack of good sense. Simplicity is incompatible with duplicity, artfulness, or vanity, while silliness is consistent with all three. Simplicity denotes lack of knowledge or of guile; silliness denotes want of judgment or right purpose, a defect of character as well as of education. I am a simple woman, much too weak To oppose your cunning. Shak. He is the companion of the silliest people in their most silly pleasure; he is ready for every impertinent entertainment and diversion. Law. 

SIMPLE:  A medicinal plant; -- so called because each vegetable was supposed to possess its particular virtue, and therefore to constitute a simple remedy. What virtue is in this remedy lies in the naked simple itself as it comes over from the Indies. Sir W. Temple.  3. (Weaving) (a) A drawloom. (b) A part of the apparatus for raising the heddles of a drawloom.  4. (R. C. Ch.)  A feast which is not a double or a semidouble. 

SIMPLE:  To gather simples, or medicinal plants. As simpling on the flowery hills she [Circe] strayed. Garth.  SIMPLE-HEARTED Sim"ple-heart`ed, a.  Sincere; inguenuous; guileless. Sir W. Scott.  SIMPLE-MINDED Sim"ple-mind`ed, a.  Artless; guileless; simple-hearted; undesigning; unsuspecting; devoid of duplicity. Blackstone.  -- Sim"ple-mind`ed*ness, n. 

SIMPLENESS:  The quality or state of being simple; simplicity. Shak. 

SIMPLER:  One who collects simples, or medicinal plants; a herbalist; a simplist. Simpler's joy. (Bot.) Vervain. 

SIMPLESS:  Simplicity; silliness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SIMPLETON:  A person of weak intellect; a silly person. 

SIMPLICIAN:  One who is simple. [Obs.] Arnway. 

SIMPLIFICATION:  The act of simplifying. A. Smith. 

SIMPLIFY:  To make simple; to make less complex; to make clear by giving the explanation for; to show an easier or shorter process for doing or making. The collection of duties is drawn to a point, and so far simplified. A. Hamilton. It is important, in scientific pursuits, to be caitious in simplifying our deductions. W. Nicholson. 

SIMPLIST:  One skilled in simples, or medicinal plants; a simpler. Sir T. Browne. 

SIMPLISTIC:  Of or pertaining to simples, or a simplist. [R.] Wilkinson. 

SIMPLITY:  Simplicity. [Obs.] 

SIMPLOCE:  See Symploce. 

SIMPLY:  See Simulacrum. [Obs.] 

SIMULACRUM:  A likeness; a semblance; a mock appearance; a sham; -- now usually in a derogatory sense. Beneath it nothing but a great simulacrum. Thackeray. 

SIMULAR:  One who pretends to be what he is not; one who, or that which, simulates or counterfeits something; a pretender. [Obs.] Shak. Christ calleth the Pharisees hypocrites, that is to say, simulars, and painted sepulchers. Tyndale. 

SIMULAR:  False; specious; counterfeit. [R. & Obs.] "Thou simular man of virtue." Shak. 

SIMULATE:  Feigned; pretended. Bale. 

SIMULATE:  To assume the mere appearance of, without the reality; to assume the signs or indications of, falsely; to counterfeit; to feign. The Puritans, even in the depths of the dungeons to which she had sent them, prayed, and with no simulated fervor, that she might be kept from the dagger of the assassin. Macaulay. 

SIMULATION:  The act of simulating, or assuming an appearance which is feigned, or not true; -- distinguished from dissimulation, which disguises or conceals what is true.  Syn.  -- Counterfeiting; feint; pretense. 

SIMULATOR:  One who simulates, or feigns. De Quincey. 

SIMULATORY:  Simulated, or capable of being simulated. Bp. Hall. 

SIMULTANEITY:  The quality or state of being simultaneous; simultaneousness. 

SIMULTANEOUS:  Existing, happening, or done, at the same time; as, simultaneous events.  -- Si`mul*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.  -- Si`mul*ta"ne*ous*ness, n. Simultaneous equations (Alg.), two or more equations in which the values of the unknown quantities entering them are the same at the same time in both or in all. 

SIMULTY:  Private grudge or quarrel; as, domestic simulties. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SIN:  Old form of Since. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Sin that his lord was twenty year of age. Chaucer. 

SIN:  Of or pertaining to Mount Sinai; given or made at Mount Sinai; as, the Sinaitic law. Sinaitic manuscript, a fourth century Greek manuscript of the part Bible, discovered at Mount Sinai (the greater part of it in 1859) by Tisschendorf, a German Biblical critic; -- called also Codex Sinaiticus. 

SINALBIN:  A glucoside found in the seeds of white mustard (Brassica alba, formerly Sinapis alba), and extracted as a white crystalline substance. 

SINAMINE:  A bitter white crystalline nitrogenous substance, obtained indirectly from oil of mustard and ammonia; -- called also allyl melamine. 

SINAPATE:  A salt of sinapic acid. 

SINAPIC:  Of or pertaining to sinapine; specifically, designating an acid (C11H12O5) related to gallic acid, and obtained by the decomposition of sinapine, as a white crystalline substance. 

SINAPINE:  An alkaloid occuring in the seeds of mustard. It is extracted, in combination with sulphocyanic acid, as a white crystalline substance, having a hot, bitter taste. When sinapine is isolated it is unstable and undergoes decomposition. 

SINAPIS:  A disused generic name for mustard; -- now called Brassica. 

SINAPISIN:  A substance extracted from mustard seed and probably identical with sinalbin. [Obs.] 

SINAPISM:  A plaster or poultice composed principally of powdered mustard seed, or containing the volatile oil of mustard seed. It is a powerful irritant. 

SINAPOLEIC:  Of or pertaining to mustard oil; specifically, designating an acid of the oleic acid series said to occur in mistard oil. 

SINAPOLINE:  A nitrogenous base, CO.(NH.C3H5)2, related to urea, extracted from mustard oil, and also produced artifically, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also diallyl urea. 

SINCALINE:  Choline. [Written also sinkaline.] 

SINCE:  From the time of; in or during the time subsequent to; subsequently to; after; -- usually with a past event or time for the object. The Lord hath blessed thee, since my coming. Gen. xxx. 30. I have a model by which he build a nobler poem than any extant since the ancients. Dryden. 

SINCE:  Seeing that; because; considering; -- formerly followed by that. Since that my penitence comes after all, Imploring pardon. Shak. Since truth and constancy are vain, Since neither love, nor sense of pain, Nor force of reason, can persuade, Then let example be obeyed. Granville.  Syn.  -- Because; for; as; inasmuch as; considering. See Because. 

SINCERELY:  In a sincere manner. Specifically: (a) Purely; without alloy. Milton. (b) Honestly; unfeignedly; without dissimulation; as, to speak one's mind sincerely; to love virtue sincerely. 

SINCERENESS:  Same as Sincerity. Beau & Fl. 

SINCERITY:  The quality or state of being sincere; honesty of mind or intention; freedom from simulation, hypocrisy, disguise, or false pretense; sincereness. I protest, in the sincerity of love. Shak. Sincerity is a duty no less plain than important. Knox. 

SINCH:  A saddle girth made of leather, canvas, woven horsehair, or woven grass. [Western U.S.] 

SINCH:  To gird with a sinch; to tighten the sinch or girth of (a saddle); as, to sinch up a sadle. [Western U.S.] 

SINCIPITAL:  Of or pertaining to the sinciput; being in the region of the sinciput. 

SINCIPUT:  The fore part of the head.  2. (Zoöl.)  The part of the head of a bird between the base of the bill and the vertex. 

SINDI:  A native of Sind, India, esp. one of the native Hindoo stock. 

SINDON:  A small rag or pledget introduced into the hole in the cranium made by a trephine. Dunglison. 

SINE:  Without. 

SINECURAL:  Of or pertaining to a sinecure; being in the nature of a sinecure. 

SINECURE:  To put or place in a sinecure. 

SINECURISM:  The state of having a sinecure. 

SINECURIST:  One who has a sinecure. 

SINEW:  A tendon or tendonous tissue. See Tendon.  2. Muscle; nerve. [R.] Sir J. Davies.  3. Fig.: That which supplies strength or power. The portion and sinew of her fortune, her marriage dowry. Shak. The bodies of men, munition, and money, may justly be called the sinews of war. Sir W. Raleigh.  Note: Money alone is often called the sinews of war. 

SINEW:  To knit together, or make strong with, or as with, sinews. Shak. Wretches, now stuck up for long tortures . . . might, if properly treated, serve to sinew the state in time of danger. Goldsmith. 

SINEWINESS:  Quality of being sinewy. 

SINEWISH:  Sinewy. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

SINEWLESS:  Having no sinews; hence, having no strength or vigor. 

SINEWOUS:  Sinewy. [Obs.] Holinshed.  SINEW-SHRUNK Sin"ew-shrunk`, a. (Far.)  Having the sinews under the belly shrunk by excessive fatigue. 

SINFUL:  Tainted with, or full of, sin; wicked; iniquitous; criminal; unholy; as, sinful men; sinful thoughts. Piers Plowman. Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Isa. i. 4. -- Sin"ful*ly, adv.  -- Sin"ful*ness, n. 

SINGE:  A burning of the surface; a slight burn. 

SINGER:  One who, or that which, singes. Specifically: (a) One employed to singe cloth. (b) A machine for singeing cloth. 

SINGER:  One who sings; especially, one whose profession is to sing. 

SINGERESS:  A songstress. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

SINGHALESE:  Same as Cingalese. 

SINGING:  from Sing, v. Singing bird. (Zoöl.) (a) Popularly, any bird that sings; a song bird. (b) Specifically, any one of the Oscines.  -- Singing book, a book containing music for singing; a book of tunes.  -- Singing falcon or hawk. (Zoöl.) See Chanting falcon, under Chanting.  -- Singing fish (Zoöl.), a California toadfish (Porichthys porosissimus).  -- Singing flame (Acoustics), a flame, as of hydrogen or coal gas, burning within a tube and so adjusted as to set the air within the tube in vibration, causing sound. The apparatus is called also chemical harmonicon.  -- Singing master, a man who teaches vocal music.  -- Singing school, a school in which persons are instructed in singing. 

SINGINGLY:  With sounds like singing; with a kind of tune; in a singing tone. G. North (1575). 

SINGLE:  To take the irrregular gait called single-foot;- said of a horse. See Single-foot. Many very fleet horses, when overdriven, adopt a disagreeable gait, which seems to be a cross between a pace and a trot, in which the two legs of one side are raised almost but not quite, simultaneously. Such horses are said to single, or to be single-footed. W. S. Clark. 

SINGLE:  The reeled filaments of silk, twisted without doubling to give them firmness.  3. A handful of gleaned grain. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]  4. (Law Tennis)  A game with but one player on each side; -- usually in the plural.  5. (Baseball)  A hit by a batter which enables him to reach first base only.  SINGLE-ACTING Sin"gle-act`ing, a.  Having simplicity of action; especially (Mach.), acting or exerting force during strokes in one direction only; -- said of a reciprocating engine, pump, etc.  SINGLE-BREASTED Sin"gle-breast`ed, a.  Lapping over the breast only far enough to permit of buttoning, and having buttons on one edge only; as, a single-breasted coast.  SINGLE-FOOT Sin"gle-foot`, n.  An irregular gait of a horse; -- called also single-footed pace. See Single, v. i. Single-foot is an irregular pace, rather rare, distinguished by the posterior extremities moving in the order of a fast walk, and the anterior extremities in that of a slow trot. Stillman (The Horse in Motion.)  SINGLE-HANDED Sin"gle-hand"ed, a.  Having but one hand, or one workman; also, alone; unassisted.  SINGLE-HEARTED Sin"gle-heart"ed, a.  Having an honest heart; free from duplicity.  -- Sin"gle-heart"ed*ly, adv.  SINGLE-MINDED Sin"gle-mind"ed, a.  Having a single purpose; hence, artless; guileless; single- hearted. 

SINGLES:  See Single, n., 2. 

SINGLESTICK:  Having one surface; -- said specif. of aëroplanes or aërocurves that are covered with fabric, etc., on only one side. 

SINGLET:  An unlined or undyed waistcoat; a single garment; -- opposed to doublet. [Prov. Eng.]  SINGLE TAX Sin"gle tax`. (Pol. Econ.)  A tax levied upon land alone, irrespective of improvements, -- advocated by certain economists as the sole source of public revenue.  Whatever may be thought of Henry George's single-tax theory as a whole, there can be little question that a relatively higher assessment of ground rent, with corresponding relief for those who have made improvements, is a much-needed reform. A. T. Hadley. 

SINGLETON:  In certain games at cards, as whist, a single card of any suit held at the deal by a player; as, to lead a singleton. 

SINGLETREE:  The pivoted or swinging bar to which the traces of a harnessed horse are fixed; a whiffletree.  Note: When two horses draw abreast, a singletree is fixed at each end of another crosspiece, called the doubletree. 

SINGLY:  The kob. 

SINGSONG:  Drawling; monotonous. 

SINGSONG:  To write poor poetry. [R.] Tennyson. 

SINGSPIEL:  A dramatic work, partly in dialogue and partly in song, of a kind popular in Germany in the latter part of the 18th century. It was often comic, had modern characters, and patterned its music on folk song with strictly subordinated accompaniment. 

SINGSTER:  A songstress. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

SINGULAR:  Existing by itself; single; individual. The idea which represents one . . . determinate thing, is called a singular idea, whether simple, complex, or compound. I. Watts.  4. (Law)  Each; individual; as, to convey several parcels of land, all and singular.  5. (Gram.)  Denoting one person or thing; as, the singular number; -- opposed to dual and Ant: plural.  6. Standing by itself; out of the ordinary course; unusual; uncommon; strange; as, a singular phenomenon. So singular a sadness Must have a cause as strange as the effect. Denham.  7. Distinguished as existing in a very high degree; rarely equaled; eminent; extraordinary; exceptional; as, a man of singular gravity or attainments.  8. Departing from general usage or expectations; odd; whimsical; -- often implying disapproval or consure. His zeal None seconded, as out of season judged, Or singular and rash. Milton. To be singular in anything that is wise and worthy, is not a disparagement, but a praise. Tillotson.  9. Being alone; belonging to, or being, that of which there is but one; unique. These busts of the emperors and empresses are all very scarce, and some of them almost singular in their kind. Addison. Singular point in a curve (Math.), a point at which the curve possesses some peculiar properties not possessed by other points of the curve, as a cusp point, or a multiple point.  -- Singular proposition (Logic), a proposition having as its subject a singular term, or a common term limited to an individual by means of a singular sign. Whately.  -- Singular succession (Civil Law), division among individual successors, as distinguished from universal succession, by which an estate descended in intestacy to the heirs in mass.  -- Singular term (Logic), a term which represents or stands for a single individual.  Syn.  -- Unexampled; unprecedented; eminent; extraordinary; remarkable; uncommon; rare; unusual; peculiar; strange; odd; eccentric; fantastic. 

SINGULAR:  The singular number, or the number denoting one person or thing; a word in the singular number. 

SINGULARIST:  One who affects singularity. [Obs.] A clownish singularist, or nonconformist to ordinary usage. Borrow. 

SINGULARIZE:  To make singular or single; to distinguish. [R.] 

SINGULT:  A sigh or sobbing; also, a hiccough. [Obs.] Spenser. W. Browne. 

SINGULTOUS:  Relating to, or affected with, hiccough. Dunglison. 

SINGULTUS:  Hiccough. 

SINIC:  Of or pertaining to the Chinese and allied races; Chinese. 

SINICAL:  Of or pertaining to a sine; employing, or founded upon, sines; as, a sinical quadrant. 

SINICISM:  Anything peculiar to the Chinese; esp., a Chinese peculiarity in manners or customs. 

SINIGRIN:  A glucoside found in the seeds of black mustard (Brassica nigra, formerly Sinapis nigra) It resembles sinalbin, and consists of a potassium salt of myronic acid. 

SINISTER:  Left-handed; hence, unlucky. [Obs.] Lovelace. 

SINISTERLY:  In a sinister manner. Wood. 

SINISTRAD:  Toward the left side; sinistrally. 

SINISTRAL:  Having the whorls of the spire revolving or rising to the left; reversed; -- said of certain spiral shells. 

SINISTRALITY:  The quality or state of being sinistral. 

SINISTRALLY:  Toward the left; in a sinistral manner. J. Le Conte. 

SINISTRIN:  A mucilaginous carbohydrate, resembling achroödextrin, extracted from squill as a colorless amorphous substance; -- so called because it is levorotatory. 

SINISTRORSAL:  Rising spirally from right to left (of the spectator); sinistrorse. 

SINISTRORSE:  Turning to the left (of the spectator) in the ascending line; - - the opposite of dextrorse. See Dextrorse. 

SINKER:  One who, or that which, sinks. Specifically: (a) A weight on something, as on a fish line, to sink it. (b) In knitting machines, one of the thin plates, blades, or other devices, that depress the loops upon or between the needles. Dividing sinker, in knitting machines, a sinker between two jack sinkers and acting alternately with them.  -- Jack sinker. See under Jack, n.  -- Sinker bar. (a) In knitting machines, a bar to which one set of the sinkers is attached. (b) In deep well boring, a heavy bar forming a connection between the lifting rope and the boring tools, above the jars. 

SINKING:  from Sink. Sinking fund. See under Fund.  -- Sinking head (Founding), a riser from which the mold is fed as the casting shrinks. See Riser, n., 4.  -- Sinking pump, a pump which can be lowered in a well or a mine shaft as the level of the water sinks. 

SINLESS:  Free from sin. Piers Plowman.  -- Sin"less*ly, adv.  -- Sin"less*ness, n. 

SINNER:  One who has sinned; especially, one who has sinned without repenting; hence, a persistent and incorrigible transgressor; one condemned by the law of God. 

SINNER:  To act as a sinner. [Humorous] Whether the charmer sinner it or saint it. Pope. 

SINNERESS:  A woman who sins. [Obs.] 

SINNET:  See Sennit . 

SINOLOGICAL:  Relating to the Chinese language or literature. 

SINOLOGIST:  A sinilogue. 

SINOLOGUE:  A student of Chinese; one versed in the Chinese language, literature, and history. 

SINOLOGY:  That branch of systemized knowledge which treats of the Chinese, their language, literature, etc. 

SINOPER:  Sinople.  SINOPIA; SINOPIS Si*no"pi*a, Si*no"pis, n.  A red pigment made from sinopite. 

SINOPITE:  A brickred ferruginous clay used by the ancients for red paint. 

SINOPLE:  Ferruginous quartz, of a blood-red or brownish red color, sometimes with a tinge of yellow. 

SINOPLE:  The tincture vert; green. 

SINQUE:  See Cinque. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 

SINSRING:  Same as Banxring. 

SINTER:  Dross, as of iron; the scale which files from iron when hammered; -- applied as a name to various minerals. Calcareous sinter, a loose banded variety of calcite formed by deposition from lime-bearing waters; calcareous tufa; travertine.  -- Ceraunian sinter, fulgurite.  -- Siliceous sinter, a light cellular or fibrous opal; especially, geyserite (see Geyserite). It has often a pearly luster, and is then called pearl sinter.  SINTO; SINTU; SINTOISM; SINTOIST Sin"to, or Sin"tu, Sin"to*ism, Sin"to*ist.  See Shinto, etc. 

SINTOC:  A kind of spice used in the East Indies, consisting of the bark of a species of Cinnamomum. [Written also sindoc.] 

SINUATE:  Having the margin alternately curved inward and outward; having rounded lobes separated by rounded sinuses; sinuous; wavy. 

SINUATE:  To bend or curve in and out; to wind; to turn; to be sinusous. Woodward. 

SINUATED:  Same as Sinuate. 

SINUATION:  A winding or bending in and out. 

SINUOSE:  Sinuous. Loudon. 

SINUOUS:  Bending in and out; of a serpentine or undulating form; winding; crooked.  -- Sin"u*ous*ly, adv. Streaking the ground with sinuous trace. Milton. Gardens bright with sinuous rills. Coleridge. 

SINUPALLIATE:  Having a pallial sinus. See under Sinus. 

SINUS:  A cavity; a depression. Specifically: (a) A cavity in a bone or other part, either closed or with a narrow opening. (b) A dilated vessel or canal.  4. (Med.)  A narrow, elongated cavity, in which pus is collected; an elongated abscess with only a small orifice.  5. (Bot.)  A depression between adjoining lobes.  Note: A sinus may be rounded, as in the leaf of the white oak, or acute, as in that of the red maple. Pallial sinus. (Zoöl.) See under Pallial.  -- Sinus venosus. Etym: [L., venous dilatation.] (Anat.) (a) The main part of the cavity of the right auricle of the heart in the higher vertebrates. (b) In the lower vertebrates, a distinct chamber of the heart formed by the union of the large systematic veins and opening into the auricle. 

SINUSOID:  The curve whose ordinates are proportional to the sines of the abscissas, the equation of the curve being y = a sin x. It is also called the curve of sines. 

SINUSOIDAL:  Of or pertaining to a sinusoid; like a sinusoid. 

SIOGOON:  See Shogun. 

SIOGOONATE:  See Shogunate. 

SIOUX:  See Dakotas.  SIOUX STATE Sioux State.  North Dakota; -- a nickname. 

SIP:  To drink a small quantity; to take a fluid with the lips; to take a sip or sips of something. [She] raised it to her mouth with sober grace; Then, sipping, offered to the next in place. Dryden. 

SIPAGE:  See Seepage. [Scot. & U.S.] 

SIPE:  See Seep. [Scot. & U.S.] 

SIPHILIS:  Syphilis. 

SIPHOID:  A siphon bottle. See under Siphon, n. 

SIPHON:  To convey, or draw off, by means of a siphon, as a liquid from one vessel to another at a lower level. 

SIPHONAGE:  The action of a siphon. 

SIPHONAL:  Of or pertaining to a siphon; resembling a siphon. Siphonal stomach (Zoöl.), a stomach which is tubular and bent back upon itself, like a siphon, as in the salmon. 

SIPHONARID:  Any one of numerous species of limpet-shaped pulmonate gastropods of the genus Siphonaria. They cling to rocks between high and low water marks and have both lunglike organs and gills.  -- Si`pho*na"rid, a. 

SIPHONATA:  A tribe of bivalve mollusks in which the posterior mantle border is prolonged into two tubes or siphons. Called also Siphoniata. See Siphon, 2 (a), and Quahaug. 

SIPHONATE:  Belonging to the Siphonata. 

SIPHONET:  One of the two dorsal tubular organs on the hinder part of the abdomen of aphids. They give exit to the honeydew. See Illust. under Aphis. 

SIPHONIA:  A former name for a euphorbiaceous genus (Hevea) of South American trees, the principal source of caoutchouc. 

SIPHONIATA:  Same as Siphonata. 

SIPHONIC:  Of or pertaining to a siphon. 

SIPHONIFER:  Any cephalopod having a siphonate shell. 

SIPHONIFEROUS:  Siphon-bearing, as the shell of the nautilus and other cephalopods. 

SIPHONIUM:  A bony tube which, in some birds, connects the tympanium with the air chambers of the articular piece of the mandible. 

SIPHONOBRANCHIATA:  A tribe of gastropods having the mantle border, on one or both sides, prolonged in the form of a spout through which water enters the gill cavity. The shell itself is not always siphonostomatous in this group. 

SIPHONOBRANCHIATE:  Having a siphon, or siphons, to convey water to the gills; belonging or pertaining to the Siphonobranchiata.  -- n.  One of the Siphonobranchiata. 

SIPHONOGLYPHE:  A gonidium. 

SIPHONOPHORA:  An order of pelagic Hydrozoa including species which form complex free-swimming communities composed of numerous zooids of various kinds, some of which act as floats or as swimming organs, others as feeding or nutritive zooids, and others as reproductive zooids. See Illust. under Physallia, and Porpita. 

SIPHONOPHORAN:  Belonging to the Siphonophora.  -- n.  One of the Siphonophora. 

SIPHONOPHORE:  One of the Siphonophora. 

SIPHONOPODA:  A division of Scaphopoda including those in which the foot terminates in a circular disk. 

SIPHORHINAL:  Having tubular nostrils, as the petrels. 

SIPHORHINIAN:  A siphorhinal bird. 

SIPHUNCLE:  The tube which runs through the partitions of chambered cephalopod shells. 

SIPHUNCLED:  Having a siphuncle; siphunculated. 

SIPHUNCULAR:  Of or pertaining to the siphuncle. 

SIPHUNCULATED:  Having a siphuncle. Huxley. 

SIPID:  Having a taste or flavorl savory; sapid. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

SIPPER:  One whi sips. 

SIPPET:  A small sop; a small, thin piece of toasted bread soaked in milk, broth, or the like; a small piece of toasted or fried bread cut into some special shape and used for garnishing. Your sweet sippets in widows' houses. Milton. 

SIPPLE:  To sip often. [Obs. or Scot.] 

SIPPLING:  Sipping often. [Obs.] "Taken after a sippling sort." Holland. 

SIPUNCULACEA:  A suborder of Gephyrea, including those which have the body unarmed and the intestine opening anteriorly. 

SIPUNCULOID:  Pertaining to the Sipunculoidea.  -- n.  One of the Sipunculoidea. 

SIPUNCULOIDEA:  A notification by a candidate for orders of his intention to inquire whether any impediment may be alleged against him. 

SIRASKIER:  See Seraskier. 

SIRASKIERATE:  See Seraskierate. 

SIRBONIAN:  See Serbonian. 

SIRDAR:  A native chief in Hindostan; a headman. Malcom. 

SIRE:  To beget; to procreate; -- used of beasts, and especially of stallions. 

SIREDON:  The larval form of any salamander while it still has external gills; especially, one of those which, like the axolotl (Amblystoma Mexicanum), sometimes lay eggs while in this larval state, but which under more favorable conditions lose their gills and become normal salamanders. See also Axolotl. 

SIREN:  One of three sea nymphs, -- or, according to some writers, of two, -- said to frequent an island near the coast of Italy, and to sing with such sweetness that they lured mariners to destruction. Next where the sirens dwell you plow the seas; Their song is death, and makes destruction please. Pope.  2. An enticing, dangerous woman. Shak.  3. Something which is insidious or deceptive. Consumption is a siren. W. Irving.  4. A mermaid. [Obs.] Shak.  5. (Zoöl.)  Any long, slender amphibian of the genus Siren or family Sirenidæ, destitute of hind legs and pelvis, and having permanent external gills as well as lungs. They inhabit the swamps, lagoons, and ditches of the Southern United States. The more common species (Siren lacertina) is dull lead-gray in color, and becames two feet long.  6. Etym: [F. sirène, properly, a siren in sense 1.] (Acoustics)  An instrument for producing musical tones and for ascertaining the number of sound waves or vibrations per second which produce a note of a given pitch. The sounds are produced by a perforated rotating disk or disks. A form with two disks operated by steam or highly compressed air is used sounding an alarm to vessels in fog. [Written also sirene, and syren.] 

SIREN:  Of or pertaining to a siren; bewitching, like a siren; fascinating; alluring; as, a siren song. 

SIRENE:  See Siren, 6. 

SIRENIA:  An order of large aquatic herbivorous mammals, including the manatee, dugong, rytina, and several fossil genera.  Note: The hind limbs are either rudimentary or wanting, and the front ones are changed to paddles. They have horny plates on the front part of the jaws, and usually flat-crowned molar teeth. The stomach is complex and the intestine long, as in other herbivorous mammals. See Cetacea (b). 

SIRENIAN:  Any species of Sirenia. 

SIRENICAL:  Like, or appropriate to, a siren; fascinating; deceptive. Here's couple of sirenical rascals shall enchant ye. Marton. 

SIRENIZE:  To use the enticements of a siren; to act as a siren; to fascinate. 

SIRIUS:  The Dog Star. See Dog Star. 

SIRKEER:  Any one of several species of Asiatic cuckoos of the genus Taccocua, as the Bengal sirkeer (T. sirkee). 

SIRLOIN:  A loin of beef, or a part of a loin. [Written also surloin.] 

SIRNAME:  See Surname. 

SIROC:  See Sirocco. [Poetic] Emerson. 

SIROCCO:  An oppressive, relaxing wind from the Libyan deserts, chiefly experienced in Italy, Malta, and Sicily. 

SIRRAH:  A term of address implying inferiority and used in anger, contempt, reproach, or disrespectful familiarity, addressed to a man or boy, but sometimes to a woman. In sililoquies often preceded by ah. Not used in the plural. "Ah, sirrah mistress." Beau & Fl. Go, sirrah, to my cell. Shak. 

SIRT:  A quicksand. [Obs.]  SIRUP; SYRUP Sir"up Syr"up, n. Etym: [F. sirop (cf. It. siroppo, Sp. jarabe, jarope, LL. siruppus, syrupus), fr. Ar. sharab a drink, wine, coffee, sirup. Cf. Sherbet.]  1. A thick and viscid liquid made from the juice of fruits, herbs, etc., boiled with sugar.  2. A thick and viscid saccharine solution of superior quality (as sugarhouse sirup or molasses, maple sirup); specifically, in pharmacy and often in cookery, a saturated solution of sugar and water (simple sirup), or such a solution flavored or medicated. Lucent sirups tinct with cinnamon. Keats. Mixing sirup. See the Note under Dextrose.  SIRUPED; SYRUPED Sir"uped, Syr"uped, a.  Moistened, covered, or sweetened with sirup, or sweet juice.  SIRUPY; SYRUPY Sir"up*y, Syr"up*y, a.  Like sirup, or partaking of its qualities. Mortimer. 

SIRVENTE:  A peculiar species of poetry, for the most part devoted to moral and religious topics, and commonly satirical, -- often used by the troubadours of the Middle Ages. 

SIS:  A colloquial abbreviation of Sister. 

SIS:  Six. See Sise. [Obs.] Chaucer.  SISAL GRASS; SISAL HEMP Si*sal" grass`, Si*sal" hemp`,  The prepared fiber of the Agave Americana, or American aloe, used for cordage; -- so called from Sisal, a port in Yucatan. See Sisal hemp, under Hemp. 

SISCOWET:  A large, fat variety of the namaycusa found in Lake Superior; - - called also siskawet, siskiwit. 

SISE:  An assize. [Obs.] 

SISE:  Six; the highest number on a die; the cast of six in throwing dice. In the new casting of a die, when ace is on the top, sise must needs be at the bottom. Fuller. 

SISEL:  The suslik. 

SISER:  Cider. See Sicer. [Obs.] Chaucer.  SISERARA; SISERARY Sis"e*ra*ra, Sis"e*ra*ry, n.  A hard blow. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SISKIWIT:  The siscowet. 

SISMOGRAPH:  See Seismograph. 

SISMOMETER:  See Seismometer. 

SISS:  To make a hissing sound; as, a flatiron hot enough to siss when touched with a wet finger. [Colloq. U. S.; Local, Eng.] 

SISS:  A hissing noise. [Colloq. U. S.] 

SISSOO:  A leguminous tree (Dalbergia Sissoo) of the northern parts of India; also, the dark brown compact and durable timber obtained from it. It is used in shipbuilding and for gun carriages, railway ties, etc. 

SIST:  To stay, as judicial proceedings; to delay or suspend; to stop.  2. To cause to take a place, as at the bar of a court; hence, to cite; to summon; to bring into court. [Scot.] Some, however, have preposterously sisted nature as the first or generative principle. Sir W. Hamilton. 

SIST:  A stay or suspension of proceedings; an order for a stay of proceedings. Burril. 

SISTER:  To be sister to; to resemble closely. [Obs.] Shak. 

SISTERING:  Contiguous. [Obs.] Shak.  SISTER-IN-LAW Sis"ter-in-law`, n; pl. Sisters-in-law(  The sister of one's husband or wife; also, the wife of one's brother; sometimes, the wife of one's husband's or wife's brother. 

SISTERLY:  Like a sister; becoming a sister, affectionate; as, sisterly kindness; sisterly remorse. Shak. 

SISTINE:  Of or pertaining to Pope Sixtus. Sistine chapel, a chapel in the Vatican at Rome, built by Pope Sixtus IV., and decorated with frescoes by Michael Angelo and others. 

SISTREN:  Sisters. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SISTRUM:  An instrument consisting of a thin metal frame, through which passed a number of metal rods, and furnished with a handle by which it was shaken and made to rattle. It was peculiarly Egyptian, and used especially in the worship of Isis. It is still used in Nubia. 

SISYPHEAN:  Relating to Sisyphus; incessantly recurring; as, Sisyphean labors. 

SISYPHUS:  A king of Corinth, son of Æolus, famed for his cunning. He was killed by Theseus, and in the lower world was condemned by Pluto to roll to the top of a hill a huge stone, which constantly rolled back again, making his task incessant. 

SIT:  obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Sit, for sitteth. 

SITED:  Having a site; situated. [Obs.] [The garden] sited was in fruitful soil. Chaucer. 

SITFAST:  Fixed; stationary; immovable. [R.] 'T is good, when you have crossed the sea and back, To find the sitfast acres where you left them. Emerson. 

SITFAST:  A callosity with inflamed edges, on the back of a horse, under the saddle. 

SITH:  Since; afterwards; seeing that. [Obs.] We need not fear them, sith Christ is with us. Latimer. Sith thou art rightful judge. Chaucer.  SITH; SITHE Sith, Sithe, n. Etym: [AS.  Time. [Obs.] Chaucer. And humbly thanked him a thousand sithes. Spenser. 

SITHE:  To sigh.  Note: [A spelling of a corrupt and provincial pronunciation.] 

SITHE:  A scythe. [Obs.] Milton. 

SITHE:  To cut with a scythe; to scythe. [Obs.] 

SITHED:  Scythed. [Obs.] T. Warton. 

SITHEMAN:  A mower. [Obs.] Marston. 

SITHEN:  Since; afterwards. See 1st Sith. [Obs.] Fortune was first friend and sithen foe. Chaucer.  SITHENCE; SITHENS Sith"ence, Sith"ens, adv. & conj.  Since. See Sith, and Sithen. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

SITHTHEN:  See Sithen. [Obs.] Siththen that the world began. Chaucer. 

SITOLOGY:  A treatise on the regulation of the diet; dietetics. [Written also sitiology.] 

SITOPHOBIA:  A version to food; refusal to take nourishment. [Written also sitiophobia.] 

SITTEN:  p. p. of Sit, for sat. 

SITTINE:  Of or pertaining to the family Sittidæ, or nuthatches. 

SITTING:  Being in the state, or the position, of one who, or that which, sits. 

SITUATE:  To place. [R.] Landor. 

SITUS:  The method in which the parts of a plant are arranged; also, the position of the parts. Henslow.  SITZ BATH Sitz" bath`. Etym: [G. sitzbad.]  A tub in which one bathes in a sitting posture; also, a bath so taken; a hip bath. 

SIVA:  One of the triad of Hindoo gods. He is the avenger or destroyer, and in modern worship symbolizes the reproductive power of nature. 

SIVAN:  The third month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year; -- supposed to correspond nearly with our month of June. 

SIVATHERIUM:  A genus of very large extinct ruminants found in the Tertiary formation of India. The snout was prolonged in the form of a proboscis. The male had four horns, the posterior pair being large and branched. It was allied to the antelopes, but very much larger than any exsisting species. 

SIVER:  To simmer. [Obs.] Holland. 

SIVVENS:  See Sibbens. 

SIWIN:  Same as Sewen. 

SIX:  One more than five; twice three; as, six yards. Six Nations (Ethnol.), a confederation of North American Indians formed by the union of the Tuscaroras and the Five Nations.  -- Six points circle. (Geom.) See Nine points circle, under Nine. 

SIXFOLD:  Six times repeated; six times as much or as many.  SIX-FOOTER Six"-foot`er, n.  One who is six feet tall. [Colloq. U.S.] 

SIXPENCE:  An English silver coin of the value of six pennies; half a shilling, or about twelve cents. 

SIXPENNY:  Of the value of, or costing, sixpence; as, a sixpenny loaf. 

SIXSCORE:  Six times twenty; one hundred and twenty.  SIX-SHOOTER Six"-shoot`er, n.  A pistol or other firearm which can be fired six times without reloading especially, a six-chambered revolver. [Colloq. U.S.] 

SIXTEEN:  Six and ten; consisting of six and ten; fifteen and one more. 

SIXTEENMO:  See Sextodecimo. 

SIXTEENTH:  An interval comprising two octaves and a second. Moore (Encyc. of Music.) 

SIXTH:  The interval embracing six diatonic degrees of the scale. 

SIXTHLY:  In the sixth place. Bacon. 

SIXTY:  Six times ten; fifty-nine and one more; threescore. 

SIXTY:  Constituting or being one of sixty-four equal parts into which a thing is divided. Sixty-fourth note (Mus.), the sixty-fourth part of a whole note; a hemi-demi-semiquaver. 

SIZAR:  One of a body of students in the universities of Cambridge (Eng.) and Dublin, who, having passed a certain examination, are exempted from paying college fees and charges. A sizar corresponded to a servitor at Oxford. The sizar paid nothing for food and tuition, and very little for lodging. Macaulay.  Note: They formerly waited on the table at meals; but this is done away with. They were probably so called from being thus employed in distributing the size, or provisions. See 4th Size, 2. 

SIZARSHIP:  The position or standing of a sizar. 

SIZE:  Six. 

SIZE:  To cover with size; to prepare with size. 

SIZE:  An allowance of food and drink from the buttery, aside from the regular dinner at commons; -- corresponding to battel at Oxford.  3. Extent of superficies or volume; bulk; bigness; magnitude; as, the size of a tree or of a mast; the size of a ship or of a rock.  4. Figurative bulk; condition as to rank, ability, character, etc.; as, the office demands a man of larger size. Men of a less size and quality. L'Estrange. The middling or lower size of people. Swift.  5. A conventional relative measure of dimension, as for shoes, gloves, and other articles made up for sale.  6. An instrument consisting of a number of perforated gauges fastened together at one end by a rivet, -- used for ascertaining the size of pearls. Knight. Size roll, a small piese of parchment added to a roll.  -- Size stick, a measuring stick used by shoemakers for ascertaining the size of the foot.  Syn.  -- Dimension; bigness; largeness; greatness; magnitude. 

SIZE:  To bring or adjust anything exactly to a required dimension, as by cutting. To size up, to estimate or ascertain the character and ability of. See 4th Size, 4. [Slang, U.S.] We had to size up our fellow legislators. The Century. 

SIZE:  To order food or drink from the buttery; hence, to enter a score, as upon the buttery book. 

SIZEL:  Same as Scissel, 2. 

SIZINESS:  The quality or state of being sizy; viscousness. 

SIZING:  Food and drink ordered from the buttery by a student. 

SIZY:  Sizelike; viscous; glutinous; as, sizy blood. Arbuthnot. 

SIZZLE:  To make a hissing sound; to fry, or to dry and shrivel up, with a hissing sound. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] Forby. 

SIZZLE:  A hissing sound, as of something frying over a fire. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] 

SIZZLING:  from Sizzle. 

SKADDLE:  Hurt; damage. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray. 

SKADDLE:  Hurtful. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray. 

SKADDON:  The larva of a bee. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKAG:  An additional piece fastened to the keel of a boat to prevent lateral motion. See Skeg. 

SKAIN:  See Skein. [Obs.] 

SKAIN:  See Skean. Drayton. 

SKAINSMATE:  A messmate; a companion. [Obs.] Scurvy knave! I am none of his firt-gills; I am none of his skainsmates. Shak. 

SKAITH:  See Scatch. [Scot.] 

SKALD:  See 5th Scald. 

SKALDIC:  See Scaldic. Max Müller. 

SKALL:  To scale; to mount. [Obs.]  SKAR; SKARE Skar, Skare, a. Etym: [From the root of scare.]  Wild; timid; shy. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SKART:  The shag. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKATE:  A metallic runner with a frame shaped to fit the sole of a shoe, -- made to be fastened under the foot, and used for moving rapidly on ice. Batavia rushes forth; and as they sweep, On sounding skates, a thousand different ways, In circling poise, swift as the winds, along, The then gay land is maddended all to joy. Thomson. Roller skate. See under Roller. 

SKATE:  To move on skates. 

SKATE:  Any one of numerous species of large, flat elasmobranch fishes of the genus Raia, having a long, slender tail, terminated by a small caudal fin. The pectoral fins, which are large and broad and united to the sides of the body and head, give a somewhat rhombic form to these fishes. The skin is more or less spinose.  Note: Some of the species are used for food, as the European blue or gray skate (Raia batis), which sometimes weighs nearly 200 pounds. The American smooth, or barn-door, skate (R. lævis) is also a large species, often becoming three or four feet across. The common spiny skate (R. erinacea) is much smaller. Skate's egg. See Sea purse.  -- Skate sucker, any marine leech of the genus Pontobdella, parasitic on skates. 

SKATER:  Any one of numerous species of hemipterous insects belonging to Gerris, Pyrrhocoris, Prostemma, and allied genera. They have long legs, and run rapidly over the surface of the water, as if skating. 

SKATOL:  A constituent of human fæces formed in the small intestines as a product of the putrefaction of albuminous matter. It is also found in reduced indigo. Chemically it is methyl indol, C9H9N. 

SKAYLES:  [sq. root159.] Skittles. [Obs.] 

SKEAN:  A knife or short dagger, esp. that in use among the Highlanders of Scotland. [Variously spelt.] "His skean, or pistol." Spenser. 

SKEDADDLE:  To betake one's self to flight, as if in a panic; to flee; to run away. [Slang, U. S.] 

SKEE:  A long strip of wood, curved upwards in front, used on the foot for sliding. 

SKEED:  See Skid. 

SKEEL:  A shallow wooden vessel for holding milk or cream. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Grose.  SKEELDUCK; SKEELGOOSE Skeel"duck`, Skeel"goose`, n. Etym: [See Sheldrake.] (Zoöl.)  The common European sheldrake. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKEET:  A scoop with a long handle, used to wash the sides of a vessel, and formerly to wet the sails or deck. 

SKEG:  A kind of oats. Farm. Encyc.  3. (Naut.)  The after part of the keel of a vessel, to which the rudder is attached. 

SKEGGER:  The parr. Walton. 

SKEIN:  A metallic strengthening band or thimble on the wooden arm of an axle. Knight. 

SKEIN:  A flight of wild fowl (wild geese or the like). [Prov. Eng.] 

SKEINE:  See Skean. 

SKELDER:  To deceive; to cheat; to trick. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SKELDER:  A vagrant; a cheat. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  SKELDRAKE; SKIELDRAKE Skel"drake`, or Skiel"drake`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The common European sheldrake. (b) The oyster catcher. 

SKELET:  A skeleton. See Scelet. 

SKELETAL:  Pertaining to the skeleton. 

SKELETOGENOUS:  Forming or producing parts of the skeleton. 

SKELETOLOGY:  That part of anatomy which treats of the skeleton; also, a treatise on the skeleton. 

SKELETON:  Consisting of, or resembling, a skeleton; consisting merely of the framework or outlines; having only certain leading features of anything; as, a skeleton sermon; a skeleton crystal. Skeleton bill, a bill or draft made out in blank as to the amount or payee, but signed by the acceptor. [Eng.] -- Skeleton key, a key with nearly the whole substance of the web filed away, to adapt it to avoid the wards of a lock; a master key; -- used for opening locks to which it has not been especially fitted.  -- Skeleton leaf, a leaf from which the pulpy part has been removed by chemical means, the fibrous part alone remaining.  -- Skeleton proof, a proof of a print or engraving, with the inscription outlined in hair strokes only, such proofs being taken before the engraving is finished.  -- Skeleton regiment, a regiment which has its complement of officers, but in which there are few enlisted men.  -- Skeleton shrimp (Zoöl.), a small crustacean of the genus Caprella. See Illust. under Læmodipoda. 

SKELETONIZE:  To prepare a skeleton of; also, to reduce, as a leaf, to its skeleton. Pop. Sci. Monthly. 

SKELETONIZER:  Any small moth whose larva eats the parenchyma of leaves, leaving the skeleton; as, the apple-leaf skeletonizer. 

SKELLUM:  A scoundrel. [Obs. or Scot.] Pepys. Burns. 

SKELLY:  To squint. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SKELLY:  A squint. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SKELP:  To strike; to slap. [Scot.] C. Reade. 

SKELP:  A wrought-iron plate from which a gun barrel or pipe is made by bending and welding the edges together, and drawing the thick tube thus formed. 

SKELTER:  To run off helter-skelter; to hurry; to scurry; -- with away or off. [Colloq.] A. R. Wallace. 

SKEN:  To squint. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKENE:  See Skean. C. Kingsley. 

SKEPTIC:  A doubter as to whether any fact or truth can be certainly known; a universal doubter; a Pyrrhonist; hence, in modern usage, occasionally, a person who questions whether any truth or fact can be established on philosophical grounds; sometimes, a critical inquirer, in opposition to a dogmatist. All this criticism [of Hume] proceeds upon the erroneous hypothesis that he was a dogmatist. He was a skeptic; that is, he accepted the principles asserted by the prevailing dogmatism: and only showed that such and such conclusions were, on these principles, inevitable. Sir W. Hamilton.  3. (Theol.)  A person who doubts the existence and perfections of God, or the truth of revelation; one who disbelieves the divine origin of the Christian religion. Suffer not your faith to be shaken by the sophistries of skeptics. S. Clarke.  Note: This word and its derivatives are often written with c instead of k in the first syllable, -- sceptic, sceptical, scepticism, etc. Dr. Johnson, struck with the extraordinary irregularity of giving c its hard sound before e, altered the spelling, and his example has been followed by most of the lexicographers who have succeeded him; yet the prevalent practice among English writers and printers is in favor of the other mode. In the United States this practice is reversed, a large and increasing majority of educated persons preferring the orthography which is most in accordance with etymology and analogy.  Syn.  -- Infidel; unbeliever; doubter.  -- See Infidel.  SKEPTIC; SKEPTICAL Skep"tic, Skep"tic*al, a. Etym: [Written also sceptic, sceptical.]  1. Of or pertaining to a sceptic or skepticism; characterized by skepticism; hesitating to admit the certainly of doctrines or principles; doubting of everything.  2. (Theol.)  Doubting or denying the truth of revelation, or the sacred Scriptures. The skeptical system subverts the whole foundation of morals. R. Hall. -- Skep"tac*al*ly, adv.  -- Skep"tic*al*ness, n. 

SKEPTICISM:  The doctrine that no fact or principle can be certainly known; the tenet that all knowledge is uncertain; Pyrrohonism; universal doubt; the position that no fact or truth, however worthy of confidence, can be established on philosophical grounds; critical investigation or inquiry, as opposed to the positive assumption or assertion of certain principles.  3. (Theol.)  A doubting of the truth of revelation, or a denial of the divine origin of the Christian religion, or of the being, perfections, or truth of God. Let no . . . secret skepticism lead any one to doubt whether this blessed prospect will be realized. S. Miller. 

SKEPTICIZE:  To doubt; to pretend to doubt of everything. [R.] To skepticize, where no one else will . . . hesitate. Shaftesbury. 

SKERRY:  A rocky isle; an insulated rock. [Scot.] 

SKETCH:  An outline or general delineation of anything; a first rough or incomplete draught or plan of any design; especially, in the fine arts, such a representation of an object or scene as serves the artist's purpose by recording its chief features; also, a preliminary study for an original work.  Syn.  -- Outline; delineation; draught; plan; design.  -- Sketch, Outline, Delineation. An outline gives only the bounding lines of some scene or picture. A sketch fills up the outline in part, giving broad touches, by which an imperfect idea may be conveyed. A delineation goes further, carrying out the more striking features of the picture, and going so much into detail as to furnish a clear conception of the whole. Figuratively, we may speak of the outlines of a plan, of a work, of a project, etc., which serve as a basis on which the subordinate parts are formed, or of sketches of countries, characters, manners, etc., which give us a general idea of the things described. Crabb. 

SKETCH:  To make sketches, as of landscapes. 

SKETCHBOOK:  A book of sketches or for sketches. 

SKETCHER:  One who sketches. 

SKETCHILY:  In a sketchy or incomplete manner. "Sketchily descriptive." Bartlett. 

SKETCHINESS:  The quality or state of being sketchy; lack of finish; incompleteness. 

SKETCHY:  Containing only an outline or rough form; being in the manner of a sketch; incomplete. The execution is sketchy throughout; the head, in particular, is left in the rough. J. S. Harford. 

SKEW:  Awry; obliquely; askew. 

SKEW:  Turned or twisted to one side; situated obliquely; skewed; -- chiefly used in technical phrases. Skew arch, an oblique arch. See under Oblique.  -- Skew back. (Civil Engin.) (a) The course of masonry, the stone, or the iron plate, having an inclined face, which forms the abutment for the voussoirs of a segmental arch. (b) A plate, cap, or shoe, having an inclined face to receive the nut of a diagonal brace, rod, or the end of an inclined strut, in a truss or frame.  -- Skew bridge. See under Bridge, n.  -- Skew curve (Geom.), a curve of double curvature, or a twisted curve. See Plane curve, under Curve.  -- Skew gearing, or Skew bevel gearing (Mach.), toothed gearing, generally resembling bevel gearing, for connecting two shafts that are neither parallel nor intersecting, and in which the teeth slant across the faces of the gears.  -- Skew surface (Geom.), a ruled surface such that in general two successive generating straight lines do not intersect; a warped surface; as, the helicoid is a skew surface.  -- Skew symmetrical determinant (Alg.), a determinant in which the elements in each column of the matrix are equal to the elements of the corresponding row of the matrix with the signs changed, as in (1), below. (1) 0 2 -3-2 0 53 -5 0 (2) 4 -1 71 8 -2-7 2 1  Note: This requires that the numbers in the diagonal from the upper left to lower right corner be zeros. A like determinant in which the numbers in the diagonal are not zeros is a skew determinant, as in (2), above. 

SKEW:  A stone at the foot of the slope of a gable, the offset of a buttress, or the like, cut with a sloping surface and with a check to receive the coping stones and retain them in place. 

SKEWBALD:  Marked with spots and patches of white and some color other than black; -- usually distinguished from piebald, in which the colors are properly white and black. Said of horses. 

SKEWER:  A pin of wood or metal for fastening meat to a spit, or for keeping it in form while roasting. Meat well stuck with skewers to make it look round. Swift. 

SKEWER:  To fasten with skewers. 

SKI:  Same as Skee.  SKIAGRAPH; SKIAGRAPHY Ski"a*graph, n. Ski*ag"ra*phy, n., etc.  See Sciagraph, Sciagraphy, etc.  SKIASCOPE; SCIASCOPE Ski"a*scope, Sci"a*scope, n. [Gr.  a shadow + -scope.] (Med.)  A device for determining the refractive state of the eye by observing the movements of the retinal lights and shadows. -- Ski*as"co*py (#), Ski*as"co*py (#), n. 

SKID:  Large fenders hung over a vessel's side to protect it in handling a cargo. Totten. (b) One of a pair of timbers or bars, usually arranged so as to form an inclined plane, as form a wagon to a door, along which anything is moved by sliding or rolling. (c) One of a pair of horizontal rails or timbers for supporting anything, as a boat, a barrel, etc. 

SKIDDAW:  The black guillemot. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKIDPAN:  See Skid, n., 1. [Eng.]  SKID ROAD Skid road. (Logging)  (a) A road along which logs are dragged to the skidway or landing; - - called also travois, or travoy, road.  (b) A road having partly sunken transverse logs (called skids) at intervals of about five feet. 

SKIED:  imp. & p. p. of Sky, v. t. 

SKIEY:  See Skyey. Shelley. 

SKIFF:  A small, light boat. The pilot of some small night-foundered skiff. Milton. Skiff caterpillar (Zoöl.), the larva of a moth (Limacodes scapha); -- so called from its peculiar shape. 

SKIFF:  To navigate in a skiff. [R.] 

SKIFFLING:  Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections; knobbing. 

SKILDER:  To beg; to pilfer; to skelder. [Prov. Eng.& Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SKILFUL:  See Skilful. 

SKILL:  To know; to understand. [Obs.] To skill the arts of expressing our mind. Barrow. 

SKILLED:  Having familiar knowledge united with readiness and dexterity in its application; familiarly acquainted with; expert; skillful; -- often followed by in; as, a person skilled in drawing or geometry. 

SKILLET:  A small vessel of iron, copper, or other metal, with a handle, used for culinary purpose, as for stewing meat. 

SKILLIGALEE:  A kind of thin, weak broth or oatmeal porridge, served out to prisoners and paupers in England; also, a drink made of oatmeal, sugar, and water, sometimes used in the English navy or army. [Written also skilligolee, skillygalee, etc.] 

SKILLING:  A bay of a barn; also, a slight addition to a cottage. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKILLING:  A money od account in Sweden, Norwey, Denmark, and North Germany, and also a coin. It had various values, from three fourths of a cent in Norway to more than two cents in Lübeck.  SKILL-LESS Skill"-less, a.  Wanting skill. Shak. 

SKILTS:  A kind of large, coarse, short trousers formerly worn. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 

SKILTY:  The water rail. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKIM:  Contraction of Skimming and Skimmed. Skim coat, the final or finishing coat of plaster.  -- Skim colter, a colter for paring off the surface of land.  -- Skim milk, skimmed milk; milk from which the cream has been taken. 

SKIM:  Scum; refuse. Bryskett. 

SKIMBACK:  The quillback. [Local, U.S.]  SKIMBLE-SCAMBLE Skim"ble-scam`ble, a. Etym: [A reduplication of scamble.]  Rambling; disorderly; unconnected. [Colloq.] Such a deal of skimble-scamble stuff. Shak. 

SKIMITRY:  See Skimmington. 

SKIMMER:  Any species of longwinged marine birds of the genus Rhynchops, allied to the terns, but having the lower mandible compressed and much longer than the upper one. These birds fly rapidly along the surface of the water, with the lower mandible immersed, thus skimming out small fishes. The American species (R. nigra) is common on the southern coasts of the United States. Called also scissorbill, and shearbill.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several large bivalve shells, sometimes used for skimming milk, as the sea clams, and large scallops. 

SKIMMERTON:  See Skimmington. 

SKIMMINGLY:  In a skimming manner. 

SKIMMINGTON:  A word employed in the phrase, To ride Skimmington; that is to ride on a horse with a woman, but behind her, facing backward, carrying a distaff, and accompanied by a procession of jeering neighbors making mock music; a cavalcade in ridicule of a henpecked man. The custom was in vogue in parts of England. 

SKIMP:  To save; to be parsimonious or niggardly. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 

SKIMP:  Scanty. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] 

SKIN:  The external membranous integument of an animal.  Note: In man, and the vertebrates generally, the skin consist of two layers, an outer nonsensitive and nonvascular epidermis, cuticle, or skarfskin, composed of cells which are constantly growing and multiplying in the deeper, and being thrown off in the superficial, layers; and an inner sensitive, and vascular dermis, cutis, corium, or true skin, composed mostly of connective tissue.  2. The hide of an animal, separated from the body, whether green, dry, or tanned; especially, that of a small animal, as a calf, sheep, or goat.  3. A vessel made of skin, used for holding liquids. See Bottle, 1. "Skins of wine." Tennyson.  4. The bark or husk of a plant or fruit; the exterior coat of fruits and plants.  5. (Naut.) (a) That part of a sail, when furled, which remains on the outside and covers the whole. Totten. (b) The covering, as of planking or iron plates, outside the framing, forming the sides and bottom of a vessel; the shell; also, a lining inside the framing. Skin friction, Skin resistance (Naut.), the friction, or resistance, caused by the tendency of water to adhere to the immersed surface (skin) of a vessel.  -- Skin graft (Surg.), a small portion of skin used in the process of grafting. See Graft, v. t., 2.  -- Skin moth (Zoöl.), any insect which destroys the prepared skins of animals, especially the larva of Dermestes and Anthrenus.  -- Skin of the teeth, nothing, or next to nothing; the least possible hold or advantage. Job xix. 20.  -- Skin wool, wool taken from dead sheep. 

SKINBOUND:  Having the skin adhering closely and rigidly to the flesh; hidebound. Skinbound disease. (Med.) See Sclerema neonatorum, under Sclerema. 

SKINCH:  To give scant measure; to squeeze or pinch in order to effect a saving. [Prev. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.]  SKIN-DEEP Skin"-deep`, a.  Not deeper than the skin; hence, superficial. Lowell. 

SKINFLINT:  A penurious person; a miser; a niggard. Sir W. Scott. 

SKINFUL:  As much as a skin can hold. 

SKINK:  Any one of numerous species of regularly scaled harmless lizards of the family Scincidæ, common in the warmer parts of all the continents.  Note: The officinal skink (Scincus officinalis) inhabits the sandy plains of South Africa. It was believed by the ancients to be a specific for various diseases. A common slender species (Seps tridactylus) of Southern Europe was formerly believed to produce fatal diseases in cattle by mere contact. The American skinks include numerous species of the genus Eumeces, as the blue-tailed skink (E. fasciatus) of the Eastern United States. The ground skink, or ground lizard (Oligosoma laterale) inhabits the Southern United States. 

SKINK:  To draw or serve, as drink. [Obs.] Bacchus the wine them skinketh all about. Chaucer. Such wine as Ganymede doth skink to Jove. Shirley. 

SKINK:  To serve or draw liquor. [Obs.] 

SKINK:  Drink; also, pottage. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SKINKER:  One who serves liquor; a tapster. 

SKINLESS:  Having no skin, or a very thin skin; as, skinless fruit. 

SKINNINESS:  Quality of being skinny. 

SKINNY:  Consisting, or chiefly consisting, of skin; wanting flesh. "Her skinny lips." Shak. He holds him with a skinny hand. Coleridge. 

SKIP:  An iron bucket, which slides between guides, for hoisting mineral and rock.  4. (Sugar Manuf.)  A charge of sirup in the pans.  5. A beehive; a skep. 

SKIP:  A passage from one sound to another by more than a degree at once. Busby. Skip kennel, a lackey; a footboy. [Slang.] Swift.  -- Skip mackerel. (Zoöl.) See Bluefish, 1. 

SKIPJACK:  An elater; a snap bug, or snapping beetle.  3. (Zoöl.)  A name given to several kinds of a fish, as the common bluefish, the alewife, the bonito, the butterfish, the cutlass fish, the jurel, the leather jacket, the runner, the saurel, the saury, the threadfish, etc.  4. (Naut.)  A shallow sailboat with a rectilinear or V-shaped cross section. 

SKIPPER:  The saury (Scomberesox saurus).  4. The cheese maggot. See Cheese fly, under Cheese.  5. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of small butterflies of the family Hesperiadæ; -- so called from their peculiar short, jerking flight. 

SKIPPER:  The master of a fishing or small trading vessel; hence, the master, or captain, of any vessel.  2. A ship boy. [Obs.] Congreve. 

SKIPPINGLY:  In a skipping manner; by skips, or light leaps. 

SKIRL:  To utter in a shrill tone; to scream. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SKIRL:  A shrill cry or sound. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SKIRLCOCK:  The missel thrush; -- so called from its harsh alarm note. [Prev. Eng.] 

SKIRLCRAKE:  The turnstone. [Prev. Eng.] 

SKIRLING:  A shrill cry or sound; a crying shrilly; a skirl. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. When the skirling of the pipes cleft the air his cold eyes softened. Mrs. J. H. Ewing. 

SKIRLING:  A small trout or salmon; -- a name used loosely. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKIRMISH:  To fight slightly or in small parties; to engage in a skirmish or skirmishes; to act as skirmishers. 

SKIRMISHER:  One who skirmishes. Specifically: pl. (Mil.)  Soldiers deployed in loose order, to cover the front or flanks of an advancing army or a marching column. 

SKIRR:  To ramble over in order to clear; to scour. [Archaic] Shak. 

SKIRR:  To scour; to scud; to run. [Archaic] 

SKIRR:  A tern. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKIRRET:  An umbelliferous plant (Sium, or Pimpinella, Sisarum). It is a native of Asia, but has been long cultivated in Europe for its edible clustered tuberous roots, which are very sweet. 

SKIRRHUS:  See Scirrhus. 

SKIRT:  To be on the border; to live near the border, or extremity. Savages . . . who skirt along our western frontiers. S. S. Smith. 

SKIRTING:  A skirting board. [R.]  2. Skirts, taken collectivelly; material for skirts. Skirting board, the board running around a room on the wall next the floor; baseboard. 

SKIT:  To cast reflections on; to asperse. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Crose. 

SKITTER:  To move or pass (something) over a surface quickly so that it touches only at intervals; to skip.  The angler, standing in the bow, 'skitters' or skips the spoon over the surface. James A. Henshall. 

SKITTER:  To pass or glide lightly or with quick touches at intervals; to skip; to skim.  Some kinds of ducks in lighting strike the water with their tails first, and skitter along the surface for a feet before settling down. T. Roosevelt. 

SKITTLE:  Pertaining to the game of skittles. Skittle alley, an alley or court in which the game of skittles is played.  -- Skittle ball, a disk or flattish ball of wood for throwing at the pins in the game of skittles.  SKITTLE-DOG Skit"tle-dog`, n. (Zoöl.)  The piked dogfish. 

SKITTLES:  An English game resembling ninepins, but played by throwing wooden disks, instead of rolling balls, at the pins. 

SKITTY:  A rail; as, the water rail (called also skitty cock, and skitty coot); the spotted crake (Porzana maruetta), and the moor hen. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKIVE:  The iron lap used by diamond polishers in finishing the facets of the gem. 

SKIVE:  To pare or shave off the rough or thick parts of (hides or leather). 

SKLAYRE:  A vell. [Obs.] 

SKLERE:  To shelter; to cover. [Obs.]  SKOLECITE; SKOLEZITE Skol"e*cite, Skol"e*zite, n. (Min.)  See Scolecite. 

SKONCE:  See Sconce. 

SKOPSTER:  The saury. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKOPTSY:  See Raskolnik. 

SKORODITE:  See Scorodite. 

SKOUT:  A guillemot. 

SKOWITZ:  The silver salmon. 

SKREEN:  See Screen. [Obs.] 

SKRIKE:  To shriek. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SKRIKE:  The missel thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKRIMMAGE:  See Scrimmage. 

SKRIMP:  See Scrimp. 

SKRINGE:  See Scringe. 

SKRITE:  The skrike. [Prov. Eng.] 

SKUA:  Any jager gull; especially, the Megalestris skua; -- called also boatswain. 

SKUE:  See Skew. 

SKULK:  To hide, or get out of the way, in a sneaking manner; to lie close, or to move in a furtive way; to lurk. "Want skulks in holes and crevices." W. C. Bryant. Discovered and defeated of your prey, You skulked behind the fence, and sneaked away. Dryden. 

SKULK:  A number of foxes together. Wright.  SKULK; SKULKER Skulk, Skulk"er, n.  One who, or that which, skulks. 

SKULKINGLY:  In a skulking manner. 

SKULL:  A school, company, or shoal. [Obs.] A knavish skull of boys and girls did pelt at him. Warner. These fishes enter in great flotes and skulls. Holland. 

SKULL:  The skeleton of the head of a vertebrate animal, including the brain case, or cranium, and the bones and cartilages of the face and mouth. See Illusts. of Carnivora, of Facial angles under Facial, and of Skeleton, in Appendix.  Note: In many fishes the skull is almost wholly cartilaginous but in the higher vertebrates it is more or less completely ossified, several bones are developed in the face, and the cranium is made up, wholly or partially, of bony plates arranged in three segments, the frontal, parietal, and occipital, and usually closely united in the adult.  2. The head or brain; the seat of intelligence; mind. Skulls that can not teach, and will not learn. Cowper.  3. A covering for the head; a skullcap. [Obs. & R.] Let me put on my skull first. Beau & Fl.  4. A sort of oar. See Scull. Skull and crossbones, a symbol of death. See Crossbones. 

SKULLCAP:  Any plant of the labiate genus Scutellaria, the calyx of whose flower appears, when inverted, like a helmet with the visor raised.  3. (Zoöl.)  The Lophiomys. Mad-dog skullcap (Bot.), an American herb (Scetellaria lateriflora) formerly prescribed as a cure for hydrophobia. 

SKULLFISH:  A whaler's name for a whale more than two years old. 

SKULPIN:  See Sculpin. 

SKUN:  See Scum. 

SKUNK:  Any one of several species of American musteline carnivores of the genus Mephitis and allied genera. They have two glands near the anus, secreting an extremely fetid liquid, which the animal ejects at pleasure as a means of defense.  Note: The common species of the Eastern United States (Mephitis mephitica) is black with more or less white on the body and tail. The spotted skunk (Spilogale putorius), native of the Southwestern United States and Mexico, is smaller than the common skunk, and is variously marked with black and white. Skunk bird, Skunk blackbird (Zoöl.), the bobolink; -- so called because the male, in the breeding season, is black and white, like a skunk.  -- Skunk cabbage (Bot.), an American aroid herb (Symplocarpus foetidus) having a reddish hornlike spathe in earliest spring, followed by a cluster of large cabbagelike leaves. It exhales a disagreeable odor. Also called swamp cabbage.  -- Skunk porpoise. (Zoöl.) See under Porpoise. 

SKUNK:  In games of chance and skill: To defeat (an opponent) (as in cards) so that he fails to gain a point, or (in checkers) to get a king. [Colloq.  U. S.] 

SKUNKBALL:  The surf duck. 

SKUNKISH:  Like the skunk, especially in odor. 

SKUNKTOP:  The surf duck. 

SKUNKWEED:  Skunk cabbage. 

SKURRY:  See Scurry. 

SKUTE:  A boat; a small vessel. [Obs.] Sir R. Williams. 

SKUTTERUDITE:  A mineral of a bright metallic luster and tin-white to pale lead-gray color. It consist of arsenic and cobalt. 

SKY:  Having the blue color of the sky; azure; as, a sky-blue stone. Wordsworth. 

SKYED:  Surrounded by sky. [Poetic & R.] "The skyed mountain." Thomson.  SKYE TERRIER Skye" ter"ri*er. (Zoöl.)  See Terrier. 

SKYEY:  Like the sky; ethereal; being in the sky. "Skyey regions." Thackeray. Sublime on the towers of my skyey bowers, Lightning, my pilot, sits. Shelley.  SKY-HIGH Sky"-high`  , adv. & a. Very high. [Colloq.] 

SKYISH:  Like the sky, or approaching the sky; lofty; ethereal. [R.] Shak. 

SKYLARK:  A lark that mounts and sings as it files, especially the common species (Alauda arvensis) found in Europe and in some parts of Asia, and celebrated for its melodious song; -- called also sky laverock. See under Lark.  Note: The Australian skylark (Cincloramphus cantillans) is a pipit which has the habit of ascending perpendicularly like a skylark, but it lacks the song of a true lark. The Missouri skylark is a pipit (Anthus Spraguei) of the Western United States, resembling the skylark in habit and song. 

SKYLARKING:  The act of running about the rigging of a vessel in sport; hence, frolicking; scuffing; sporting; carousing. [Colloq.] 

SKYLIGHT:  A window placed in the roof of a building, in the ceiling of a room, or in the deck of a ship, for the admission of light from above. 

SKYMAN:  An aëronaut. [Slang]  SKY PILOT Sky pilot. (Aëronautics)  A person licensed as a pilot. [Slang] 

SKYROCKET:  A rocket that ascends high and burns as it flies; a species of fireworks. 

SKYSAIL:  The sail set next above the royal. See Illust. under Sail. 

SKYSCRAPER:  A name for the one of the fancy sails alleged to have been sometimes set above the skysail. [Obs.]  (b) A very tall building.  (c) Hence, anything usually large, high, or excessive. [Slang or Colloq.] 

SKYWARD:  Toward the sky. 

SLAB:  The wryneck. [Prov. Eng.]  4. (Naut.)  The slack part of a sail. Slab line (Naut.), a line or small rope by which seamen haul up the foot of the mainsail or foresail. Totten. 

SLAB:  Thick; viscous. [Obs.] Make the gruel thick and slab. Shak. 

SLAB:  That which is slimy or viscous; moist earth; mud; also, a puddle. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

SLABBER:  To let saliva or some liquid fall from the mouth carelessly, like a child or an idiot; to drivel; to drool. [Written also slaver, and slobber.] 

SLABBER:  Spittle; saliva; slaver. 

SLABBERER:  One who slabbers, or drools; hence, an idiot. 

SLABBERY:  Like, or covered with, slabber or slab; slippery; sloppy. 

SLABBINESS:  Quality of being slabby. 

SLABBING:  Adapted for forming slabs, or for dressing flat surfaces. Slabbing machine, a milling machine. 

SLABBY:  Having flat sides; hence, tall, or long and lank. [Colloq. U. S.] 

SLACK:  Small coal; also, coal dust; culm. Raymond. 

SLACK:  A valley, or small, shallow dell. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

SLACK:  Lax; not tense; not hard drawn; not firmly extended; as, a slack rope.  2. Weak; not holding fast; as, a slack hand. Milton.  3. Remiss; backward; not using due diligence or care; not earnest or eager; as, slack in duty or service. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. 2 Pet. iii. 9.  4. Not violent, rapid, or pressing; slow; moderate; easy; as, business is slack. "With slack pace." Chaucer. Cslack southwest, at midnight was becalmed. Milton. Slack in stays (Naut.), slow in going about, as a ship.  -- Slack water, the time when the tide runs slowly, or the water is at rest; or the interval between the flux and reflux of the tide.  -- Slack-water navigation, navigation in a stream the depth of which has been increased, and the current diminished, by a dam or dams.  Syn.  -- Loose; relaxed; weak; remiss; backward; abated; diminished; inactive; slow; tardy; dull. 

SLACK:  Slackly; as, slack dried hops. 

SLACK:  The part of anything that hangs loose, having no strain upon it; as, the slack of a rope or of a sail.  SLACK; SLACKEN Slack, Slack"en, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slacked, Slackened (; p. pr. & vb. n. Slacking, Slackening.] Etym: [See Slack, a.]  1. To become slack; to be made less tense, firm, or rigid; to decrease in tension; as, a wet cord slackens in dry weather.  2. To be remiss or backward; to be negligent.  3. To lose cohesion or solidity by a chemical combination with water; to slake; as, lime slacks.  4. To abate; to become less violent. Whence these raging fires Will slacken, if his breath stir not their flames. Milton.  5. To lose rapidity; to become more slow; as, a current of water slackens.  6. To languish; to fail; to flag.  7. To end; to cease; to desist; to slake. [Obs.] That through your death your lineage should slack. Chaucer. They will not of that firste purpose slack. Chaucer.  SLACK; SLACKEN Slack, Slack"en, v. t.  1. To render slack; to make less tense or firm; as, to slack a rope; to slacken a bandage. Wycklif (Acts xxvii. 40)  2. To neglect; to be remiss in. [Obs.] Shak. Slack not the pressage. Dryden.  3. To deprive of cohesion by combining chemically with water; to slake; as, to slack lime.  4. To cause to become less eager; to repress; to make slow or less rapid; to retard; as, to slacken pursuit; to slacken industry. "Rancor for to slack." Chaucer. I should be grieved, young prince, to think my presence Unbent your thoughts, and slackened 'em to arms. Addison. In this business of growing rich, poor men should slack their pace. South. With such delay Well plased, they slack their course. Milton.  5. To cause to become less intense; to mitigate; to abate; to ease. To respite, or deceive, or slack thy pain Of this ill mansion. Milton. Air-slacked lime, lime slacked by exposure to the air, in consequence of the absorption of carton dioxide and water, by which it is converted into carbonate of lime and hydrate of lime. 

SLACKEN:  A spongy, semivitrifled substance which miners or smelters mix with the ores of metals to prevent their fusion. [Written also slakin.] 

SLACKLY:  In a slack manner. Trench. 

SLACKNESS:  The quality or state of being slack. 

SLAGGY:  Of or pertaining to slag; resembling slag; as, slaggy cobalt. 

SLAIE:  A weaver's reed; a sley. 

SLAKELESS:  Not capable of being slaked. 

SLAKIN:  Slacken. 

SLAM:  To come or swing against something, or to shut, with sudden force so as to produce a shock and noise; as, a door or shutter slams. 

SLAM:  Winning all the tricks of a deal.  4. The refuse of alum works. [Prov. Eng.]  SLAM-BANG Slam"-bang`, adv.  With great violence; with a slamming or banging noise. [Colloq.]  SLAMKIN; SLAMMERKIN Slam"kin, Slam"mer*kin, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schlampe, schlamp, dim. schlämpchen; schlampen to dangle, to be slovenly in one's dress.]  A slut; a slatternly woman. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SLANDER:  Formerly, defamation generally, whether oral or written; in modern usage, defamation by words spoken; utterance of false, malicious, and defamatory words, tending to the damage and derogation of another; calumny. See the Note under Defamation. Burril. 

SLANDERER:  One who slanders; a defamer; a calumniator. Jer. Taylor. 

SLANG:  imp. of Sling. Slung. [Archaic] 

SLANG:  Any long, narrow piece of land; a promontory. [Local, Eng.] Holland. 

SLANG:  A fetter worn on the leg by a convict. [Eng.] 

SLANG:  Low, vulgar, unauthorized language; a popular but unauthorized word, phrase, or mode of expression; also, the jargon of some particular calling or class in society; low popular cant; as, the slang of the theater, of college, of sailors, etc. 

SLANG:  To address with slang or ribaldry; to insult with vulgar language. [Colloq.] Every gentleman abused by a cabman or slanged by a bargee was bound there and then to take off his coat and challenge him to fisticuffs. London Spectator. 

SLANGINESS:  Quality of being slangy. 

SLANGOUS:  Slangy. [R.] John Bee.  SLANG-WHANGER Slang"-whang`er, n. Etym: [Slang + whang to beat.]  One who uses abusive slang; a ranting partisan. [Colloq. or Humorous] W. Irving. 

SLANGY:  Of or pertaining to slang; of the nature of slang; disposed to use slang. [Written also slangey.] 

SLANK:  imp. & p. p. of Slink. 

SLANT:  To be turned or inclined from a right line or level; to lie obliquely; to slope. On the side of younder slanting hill. Dodsley. 

SLANT:  To turn from a direct line; to give an oblique or sloping direction to; as, to slant a line. 

SLANT:  Inclined from a direct line, whether horizontal or perpendicular; sloping; oblique. "The slant lightning." Milton. 

SLANTING:  Oblique; sloping.  -- Slant"ing*ly, adv.  SLANTWISE; SLANTLY Slant"wise`, Slant"ly, adv.  In an inclined direction; obliquely; slopingly. 

SLAP:  A blow, esp. one given with the open hand, or with something broad. 

SLAP:  To strike with the open hand, or with something broad. 

SLAP:  With a sudden and violent blow; hence, quickly; instantly; directly. [Colloq.] "The railroad cars drive slap into the city." Thackeray. 

SLAPDASH:  To apply, or apply something to, in a hasty, careless, or rough manner; to roughcast; as, to slapdash mortar or paint on a wall, or to slapdash a wall. [Colloq.] Halliwell. 

SLAPE:  Slippery; smooth; crafty; hypocritical. [Prov. Eng.] Slape ale, plain ale, as opposed to medicated or mixed ale. [Prov. Eng.] 

SLAPEFACE:  A soft-spoken, crafty hypocrite. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SLAPJACK:  A flat batter cake cooked on a griddle; a flapjack; a griddlecake. [Local, U.S.] 

SLAPPER:  Very large; monstrous; big. [Slang.] 

SLASH:  To strike violently and at random, esp. with an edged instrument; to lay about one indiscriminately with blows; to cut hastily and carelessly. Hewing and slashing at their idle shades. Spenser. 

SLASH:  Swampy or wet lands overgrown with bushes. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett. 

SLASHED:  Divided into many narrow parts or segments by sharp incisions; laciniate. 

SLASHER:  A machine for applying size to warp yarns.  SLASH PINE Slash" pine". (Bot.)  A kind of pine tree (Pinus Cubensis) found in Southern Florida and the West Indies; -- so called because it grows in "slashes." 

SLASHY:  Wet and dirty; slushy. [Prov. Eng.] 

SLAT:  A thin, narrow strip or bar of wood or metal; as, the slats of a window blind. 

SLATE:  An argillaceous rock which readily splits into thin plates; argillite; argillaceous schist.  2. Any rock or stone having a slaty structure.  3. A prepared piece of such stone. Especially: (a) A thin, flat piece, for roofing or covering houses, etc. (b) A tablet for writing upon.  4. An artificial material, resembling slate, and used for the above purposes.  5. A thin plate of any material; a flake. [Obs.]  6. (Politics)  A list of candidates, prepared for nomination or for election; a list of candidates, or a programme of action, devised beforehand. [Cant, U.S.] Bartlett. Adhesive slate (Min.), a kind of slate of a greenish gray color, which absorbs water rapidly, and adheres to the tongue; whence the name.  -- Aluminous slate, or Alum slate (Min.), a kind of slate containing sulphate of alumina, -- used in the manufacture of alum.  -- Bituminous slate (Min.), a soft species of sectile clay slate, impregnated with bitumen.  -- Hornblende slate (Min.), a slaty rock, consisting essentially of hornblende and feldspar, useful for flagging on account of its toughness.  -- Slate ax or axe, a mattock with an ax end, used in shaping slates for roofs, and making holes in them for the nails.  -- Slate clay (Geol.), an indurated clay, forming one of the alternating beds of the coal measures, consisting of an infusible compound of alumina and silica, and often used for making fire bricks. Tomlinson.  -- Slate globe, a globe the surface of which is made of an artificial slatelike material.  -- Slate pencil, a pencil of slate, or of soapstone, used for writing on a slate.  -- Slate rocks (Min.), rocks which split into thin laminæ, not necessarily parallel to the stratification; foliated rocks.  -- Slate spar (Min.), a variety of calcite of silvery white luster and of a slaty structure.  -- Transparent slate, a plate of translucent material, as ground glass, upon which a copy of a picture, placed beneath it, can be made by tracing. 

SLATE:  To set a dog upon; to bait; to slat. See 2d Slat, 3. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] [Written also slete.] Ray.  SLATE-COLOR Slate"-col`or.  A dark bluish gray color.  SLATE-GRAY Slate"-gray`, a.  Of a dark gray, like slate. 

SLATER:  One who lays slates, or whose occupation is to slate buildings. 

SLATER:  Any terrestrial isopod crustacean of the genus Porcellio and allied genera; a sow bug. 

SLATT:  A slab of stone used as a veneer for coarse masonry. Knight. 

SLATTER:  To be careless, negligent, or aswkward, esp. with regard to dress and neatness; to be wasteful. Ray. 

SLATTERN:  A woman who is negligent of her dress or house; one who is not neat and nice. 

SLATTERN:  Resembling a slattern; sluttish; slatterny. "The slattern air." Gay. 

SLATTERN:  To consume carelessly or wastefully; to waste; -- with away. [R.] Chesterfield. 

SLATTERNLINESS:  The quality or state of being slatternly; slovenliness; untidiness. 

SLATTERNLY:  Resembling a slattern; sluttish; negligent; dirty.  -- adv.  In a slatternly manner. 

SLATTERPOUCH:  A dance or game played by boys, requiring active exercise. [Obs.] Gayton. 

SLATTING:  Slats, collectively. 

SLATTING:  The violent shaking or flapping of anything hanging loose in the wind, as of a sail, when being hauled down. 

SLATY:  Resembling slate; having the nature, appearance, or properties, of slate; composed of thin parallel plates, capable of being separated by splitting; as, a slaty color or texture. Slaty cleavage (Min.), cleavage, as of rocks, into thin leaves or plates, like those of slate; -- applied especially to those cases in which the planes of cleavage are not parallel to the planes of stratification. It is now believed to be caused by the compression which the strata have undergone.  -- Slaty gneiss (Min.), a variety of gneiss in which the scales of mica or crystals of hornblende, which are usually minute, form thin laminæ, rendering the rock easily cleavable. 

SLAUGHTER:  The act of killing. Specifically: (a) The extensive, violent, bloody, or wanton destruction of life; carnage. On war and mutual slaughter bent. Milton.  (b) The act of killing cattle or other beasts for market.  Syn.  -- Carnage; massacre; butchery; murder; havoc. 

SLAUGHTERER:  One who slaughters. 

SLAUGHTERHOUSE:  A house where beasts are butchered for the market. 

SLAUGHTERMAN:  One employed in slaughtering. Shak. 

SLAUGHTEROUS:  Destructive; murderous. Shak. M. Arnold.  -- Slaugh"ter*ous*ly, adv. 

SLAV:  One of a race of people occupying a large part of Eastern and Northern Europe, including the Russians, Bulgarians, Roumanians, Servo-Croats, Slovenes, Poles, Czechs, Wends or Sorbs, Slovaks, etc. [Written also Slave, and Sclav.] 

SLAVE:  See Slav. 

SLAVE:  To drudge; to toil; to labor as a slave. 

SLAVE:  To enslave. Marston. 

SLAVEBORN:  Born in slavery. 

SLAVEHOLDER:  One who holds slaves. 

SLAVEHOLDING:  Holding persons in slavery. 

SLAVEOCRACY:  See Slavocracy. 

SLAVER:  To smear with saliva issuing from the mouth; to defile with drivel; to slabber. 

SLAVER:  Saliva driveling from the mouth. Of all mad creatures, if the learned are right, It is the slaver kills, and not the bite. Pope. 

SLAVERER:  A driveler; an idiot. 

SLAVERING:  Drooling; defiling with saliva.  -- Slav"er*ing*ly, adv. 

SLAVEY:  A maidservant. [Colloq. & Jocose Eng.] 

SLAVIC:  Slavonic.  -- n.  The group of allied languages spoken by the Slavs. 

SLAVISH:  Of or pertaining to slaves; such as becomes or befits a slave; servile; excessively laborious; as, a slavish life; a slavish dependance on the great.  -- Slav"ish*ly, adv.  -- Slav"ish*ness, n. 

SLAVISM:  The common feeling and interest of the Slavonic race. 

SLAVOCRACY:  The persons or interest formerly representing slavery politically, or wielding political power for the preservation or advancement of slavery. [U. S.]  SLAVONIAN; SLAVONIC Sla*vo"ni*an, Sla*von"ic, a.  1. Of or pertaining to Slavonia, or its inhabitants.  2. Of or pertaining to the Slavs, or their language. 

SLAVONIAN:  A native or inhabitant of Slavonia; ethnologically, a Slav.  SLAVOPHIL; SLAVOPHILE Slav"o*phil, Slav"o*phile, n. Etym: [Slavic + Gr.  One, not being a Slav, who is interested in the development and prosperity of that race. 

SLAW:  Sliced cabbage served as a salad, cooked or uncooked.  SLAW; SLAWEN Slaw, Slaw"en, obs.  p. p. of Slee, to slay. With a sword drawn out he would have slaw himself. Wyclif (Acts xvi. 27.) 

SLAY:  To put to death with a weapon, or by violence; hence, to kill; to put an end to; to destroy. With this sword then will I slay you both. Chaucer. I will slay the last of them with the sword. Amos ix. 1. I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk. Shak.  Syn.  -- To kill; murder; slaughter; butcher. 

SLAYER:  One who slays; a killer; a murderer; a destrroyer of life. 

SLAZY:  See Sleazy. 

SLE:  To slay. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SLEAVE:  To separate, as threads; to divide, as a collection of threads; to sley; -- a weaver's term. 

SLEAVED:  Raw; not spun or wrought; as, sleaved thread or silk. Holinshed. 

SLEAZINESS:  Quality of being sleazy. 

SLEAZY:  Wanting firmness of texture or substance; thin; flimsy; as, sleazy silk or muslin. [Spelt also slazy.] 

SLED:  To convey or transport on a sled; as, to sled wood or timber. 

SLEDGE:  To travel or convey in a sledge or sledges. Howitt. 

SLEDGE:  A large, heavy hammer, usually wielded with both hands; -- called also sledge hammer. With his heavy sledge he can it beat. Spenser. 

SLEE:  To slay. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SLEEK:  With ease and dexterity. [Low] 

SLEEK:  That which makes smooth; varnish. [R.] 

SLEEK:  To make even and smooth; to render smooth, soft, and glossy; to smooth over. Sleeking her soft alluring locks. Milton. Gentle, my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks. Shak. 

SLEEKLY:  In a sleek manner; smoothly. 

SLEEKNESS:  The quality or state of being sleek; smoothness and glossiness of surface. 

SLEEP:  imp. of Sleep. Slept. Chaucer. 

SLEEP:  A natural and healthy, but temporary and periodical, suspension of the functions of the organs of sense, as well as of those of the voluntary and rational soul; that state of the animal in which there is a lessened acuteness of sensory perception, a confusion of ideas, and a loss of mental control, followed by a more or less unconscious state. "A man that waketh of his sleep." Chaucer. O sleep, thou ape of death. Shak.  Note: Sleep is attended by a relaxation of the muscles, and the absence of voluntary activity for any rational objects or purpose. The pulse is slower, the respiratory movements fewer in number but more profound, and there is less blood in the cerebral vessels. It is susceptible of greater or less intensity or completeness in its control of the powers. Sleep of plants (Bot.), a state of plants, usually at night, when their leaflets approach each other, and the flowers close and droop, or are covered by the folded leaves.  Syn.  -- Slumber; repose; rest; nap; doze; drowse.  SLEEP-AT-NOON Sleep"-at-noon", n. (Bot.)  A plant (Tragopogon pratensis) which closes its flowers at midday; a kind of goat's beard. Dr. Prior.  SLEEP-CHARGED Sleep"-charged`, a.  Heavy with sleep. 

SLEEPER:  An animal that hibernates, as the bear.  5. (Zoöl.) (a) A large fresh-water gobioid fish (Eleotris dormatrix). (b) A nurse shark. See under Nurse. 

SLEEPER:  Something lying in a reclining posture or position. Specifically: -- (a) One of the pieces of timber, stone, or iron, on or near the level of the ground, for the support of some superstructure, to steady framework, to keep in place the rails of a railway, etc.; a stringpiece. (b) One of the joists, or roughly shaped timbers, laid directly upon the ground, to receive the flooring of the ground story. [U.S.] (c) (Naut.) One of the knees which connect the transoms to the after timbers on the ship's quarter. (d) (Naut. ) The lowest, or bottom, tier of casks. 

SLEEPFUL:  Strongly inclined to sleep; very sleepy.  -- Sleep"ful*ness, n. 

SLEEPILY:  In a sleepy manner; drowsily. 

SLEEPINESS:  The quality or state of being sleepy. 

SLEEPING:  from Sleep. Sleeping car, a railway car or carrriage, arranged with apartments and berths for sleeping.  -- Sleeping partner (Com.), a dormant partner. See under Dormant.  -- Sleeping table (Mining), a stationary inclined platform on which pulverized ore is washed; a kind of buddle. 

SLEEPISH:  Disposed to sleep; sleepy; drowsy. Your sleepish, and more than sleepish, security. Ford. 

SLEEPMARKEN:  See 1st Hag, 4. 

SLEEPWAKER:  On in a state of magnetic or mesmeric sleep. 

SLEEPWAKING:  The state of one mesmerized, or in a partial and morbid sleep. 

SLEEPWALKER:  One who walks in his sleep; a somnambulist. 

SLEEPWALKING:  Walking in one's sleep. 

SLEEPYHEAD:  The ruddy duck. 

SLEER:  A slayer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SLEET:  The part of a mortar extending from the chamber to the trunnions. 

SLEET:  Hail or snow, mingled with rain, usually falling, or driven by the wind, in fine particles. 

SLEET:  To snow or hail with a mixture of rain. 

SLEETCH:  Mud or slime, such as that at the bottom of rivers. [Scot.] 

SLEETINESS:  The state of being sleety. 

SLEETY:  Of or pertaining to sleet; characterized by sleet; as, a sleety storm; sleety weather. 

SLEEVE:  See Sleave, untwisted thread. 

SLEEVE:  To furnish with sleeves; to put sleeves into; as, to sleeve a coat. 

SLEEVED:  Having sleeves; furnished with sleeves; -- often in composition; as, long-sleeved. 

SLEEVEFISH:  A squid. 

SLEEVEHAND:  The part of a sleeve nearest the hand; a cuff or wristband. [Obs.] Shak. 

SLEID:  To sley, or prepare for use in the weaver's sley, or slaie. Shak. 

SLEIGH:  Sly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SLEIGH:  A vehicle moved on runners, and used for transporting persons or goods on snow or ice; -- in England commonly called a sledge. Sleigh bell, a small bell attached either to a horse when drawing a slegh, or to the sleigh itself; especially a globular bell with a loose ball which plays inside instead of a clapper. 

SLEIGHTFUL:  Cunning; dexterous. [Obs.] 

SLEIGHTLY:  Cunningly. [Obs.] Huloet. 

SLEIGHTY:  Cunning; sly. [Obs.] Huloet. 

SLENDER:  Uttered with a thin tone; -- the opposite of broad; as, the slender vowels long e and i.  -- Slen"der*ly, adv.  -- Slen"der*ness, n. 

SLENT:  See Slant. [Obs.] 

SLEP:  imp. of Sleep. Slept. Chaucer. 

SLEPEZ:  A burrowing rodent (Spalax typhlus), native of Russia and Asia Minor. It has the general appearance of a mole, and is destitute of eyes. Called also mole rat. 

SLEPT:  imp. & p. p. of Sleep. 

SLEUTH:  The track of man or beast as followed by the scent. [Scot.] Halliwell. 

SLEUTHHOUND:  A hound that tracks animals by the scent; specifically, a bloodhound. [Spelt variously slouthhound, sluthhound, etc.] 

SLEW:  imp. of Slay. 

SLEW:  See Slue. 

SLEWED:  Somewhat drunk. [Slang] 

SLEWTH:  Sloth; idleness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SLEY:  To separate or part the threads of, and arrange them in a reed; -- a term used by weavers. See Sleave, and Sleid. 

SLIBBER:  Slippery. [Obs.] Holland. 

SLICER:  One who, or that which, slices; specifically, the circular saw of the lapidary.  SLICH; SLICK Slich, Slick, n. (Metal.)  See Schlich. 

SLICK:  Sleek; smooth. "Both slick and dainty." Chapman. 

SLICK:  To make sleek or smoth. "Slicked all with sweet oil." Chapman. 

SLICK:  A wide paring chisel. 

SLICKEN:  Sleek; smooth. [Prov. Eng.] 

SLICKENS:  The pulverized matter from a quartz mill, or the lighter soil of hydraulic mines. [Local, U. S.] 

SLICKER:  That which makes smooth or sleek. Specifically: (a) A kind of burnisher for leather. (b) (Founding) A curved tool for smoothing the surfaces of a mold after the withdrawal of the pattern. 

SLICKER:  A waterproof coat. [Western U.S.] 

SLICKING:  Narrow veins of ore. 

SLICKNESS:  The state or quality of being slick; smoothness; sleekness. 

SLID:  imp. & p. p. of Slide. 

SLIDDEN:  p. p. of Slide. 

SLIDDER:  To slide with interruption. [Obs.] Dryden.  SLIDDER; SLIDDERLY; SLIDDERY Slid"der, Slid"der*ly, Slid"der*y, a. Etym: [AS. slidor. See Slide, v. t.]  Slippery. [Obs.] To a drunk man the way is slidder. Chaucer. 

SLIDE:  To pass from one note to another with no perceptible cassation of sound.  7. To pass out of one's thought as not being of any consequence. [Obs. or Colloq.] With good hope let he sorrow slide. Chaucer. With a calm carelessness letting everything slide. Sir P. Sidney. 

SLIDE:  A small dislocation in beds of rock along a line of fissure. Dana.  8. (Mus.) (a) A grace consisting of two or more small notes moving by conjoint degrees, and leading to a principal note either above or below. (b) An apparatus in the trumpet and trombone by which the sounding tube is lengthened and shortened so as to produce the tones between the fundamental and its harmonics.  9. (Phonetics)  A sound which, by a gradual change in the position of the vocal organs, passes imperceptibly into another sound.  10. (Steam Engine) (a) Same as Guide bar, under Guide. (b) A slide valve. Slide box (Steam Engine), a steam chest. See under Steam.  -- Slide lathe, an engine lathe. See under Lathe.  -- Slide rail, a transfer table. See under Transfer.  -- Slide rest (Turning lathes), a contrivance for holding, moving, and guiding, the cutting tool, made to slide on ways or guides by screws or otherwise, and having compound motion.  -- Slide rule, a mathematical instrument consisting of two parts, one of which slides upon the other, for the mechanical performance of addition and subtraction, and, by means of logarithmic scales, of multiplication and division.  -- Slide valve. (a) Any valve which opens and closes a passageway by sliding over a port. (b) A particular kind of sliding valve, often used in steam engines for admitting steam to the piston and releasing it, alternately, having a cuplike cavity in its face, through which the exhaust steam passes. It is situated in the steam chest, and moved by the valve gear. It is sometimes called a D valve, -- a name which is also applied to a semicylindrical pipe used as a sliding valve. In the illustration, a is the cylinder of a steam engine, in which plays the piston p; b the steam chest, receiving its supply from the pipe i, and containing the slide valve s, which is shown as admitting steam to one end of the cylinder through the port e, and opening communication between the exhaust passage f and the port c, for the release of steam from the opposite end of the cylinder. 

SLIDEGROAT:  The game of shovelboard. [Obs.] 

SLIDER:  See Slidder. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SLIDER:  The red-bellied terrapin (Pseudemys rugosa). [Local, U. S. ] Slider pump, a form of rotary pump. 

SLIDEWAY:  A way along which something slides. 

SLIDOMETER:  An instrument for indicating and recording shocks to railway cars occasioned by sudden stopping. 

SLIGHT:  Sleight. Spenser. 

SLIGHT:  To disregard, as of little value and unworthy of notice; to make light of; as, to slight the divine commands. Milton. The wretch who slights the bounty of the skies. Cowper. To slight off, to treat slightingly; to drive off; to remove. [R.] -- To slight over, to run over in haste; to perform superficially; to treat carelessly; as, to slight over a theme. "They will but slight it over." Bacon.  Syn.  -- To neglect; disregard; disdain; scorn.  -- Slight, Neglect. To slight is stronger than to neglect. We may neglect a duty or person from inconsiderateness, or from being over- occupied in other concerns. To slight is always a positive and intentional act, resulting from feelings of dislike or contempt. We ought to put a kind construction on what appears neglect on the part of a friend; but when he slights us, it is obvious that he is our friend no longer. Beware . . . lest the like befall . . . If they transgress and slight that sole command. Milton. This my long-sufferance, and my day of grace, Those who neglect and scorn shall never taste. Milton. 

SLIGHT:  The act of slighting; the manifestation of a moderate degree of contempt, as by neglect or oversight; neglect; indignity.  Syn.  -- Neglect; disregard; inattention; contempt; disdain; scorn; disgrace; indignity; disparagement. 

SLIGHT:  Slightly. [Obs. or Poetic] Think not so slight of glory. Milton. 

SLIGHTEN:  To slight. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SLIGHTER:  One who slights. 

SLIGHTFUL:  See Sleightful. [Obs.] 

SLIGHTING:  Characterized by neglect or disregard. 

SLIGHTINGLY:  In a slighting manner. 

SLIGHTNESS:  The quality or state of being slight; slenderness; feebleness; superficiality; also, formerly, negligence; indifference; disregard. 

SLIGHTY:  Slight. [Obs.] Echard. 

SLIK:  Such. [Obs. or Scot.]  Note: Used by Chaucer as of the Northern dialect. 

SLIKENSIDES:  Same as Slickensides. 

SLILY:  See Slyly. South. 

SLIME:  Bitumen. [Archaic] Slime had they for mortar. Gen. xi. 3.  4. pl. (Mining)  Mud containing metallic ore, obtained in the preparatory dressing. Pryce.  5. (Physiol.)  A mucuslike substance which exudes from the bodies of certain animals. Goldsmith. Slime eel. (Zoöl.) See 1st Hag, 4.  -- Slime pit, a pit for the collection of slime or bitumen. 

SLIME:  To smear with slime. Tennyson. 

SLIMILY:  In a slimy manner. 

SLIMINESS:  The quality or state of being slimy. 

SLIMLY:  In a state of slimness; in a slim manner; slenderly. 

SLIMNESS:  The quality or state of being slim. 

SLIMSY:  Flimsy; frail. [Colloq. U.S.] 

SLIMY:  Of or pertaining to slime; resembling slime; of the nature of slime; viscous; glutinous; also, covered or daubed with slime; yielding, or abounding in, slime. Slimy things did crawl with legs Upon the slimy sea. Coleridge. 

SLINESS:  See Slyness. 

SLING:  To pass a rope round, as a cask, gun, etc., preparatory to attaching a hoisting or lowering tackle. 

SLING:  A drink composed of spirit (usually gin) and water sweetened. sling. 

SLINGER:  One who slings, or uses a sling. 

SLINK:  To cast prematurely; -- said of female beasts; as, a cow that slinks her calf. 

SLINKY:  Thin; lank. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.] 

SLIP:  A portion of the columns of a newspaper or other work struck off by itself; a proof from a column of type when set up and in the galley.  8. Any covering easily slipped on. Specifically: (a) A loose garment worn by a woman. (b) A child's pinafore. (c) An outside covering or case; as, a pillow slip. (d) The slip or sheath of a sword, and the like. [R.]  9. A counterfeit piece of money, being brass covered with silver. [Obs.] Shak  10. Matter found in troughs of grindstones after the grinding of edge tools. [Prov. Eng.] Sir W. Petty.  11. Potter's clay in a very liquid state, used for the decoration of ceramic ware, and also as a cement for handless and other applied parts.  12. A particular quantity of yarn. [Prov. Eng.]  13. An inclined plane on which a vessel is built, or upon which it is hauled for repair.  14. An opening or space for vessels to lie in, between wharves or in a dock; as, Peck slip. [U. S.]  15. A narrow passage between buildings. [Eng.]  16. A long seat or narrow pew in churches, often without a door. [U. S.]  17. (Mining.)  A dislocation of a lead, destroying continuity. Knight.  18. (Engin.)  The motion of the center of resistance of the float of a paddle wheel, or the blade of an oar, through the water horozontally, or the difference between a vessel's actual speed and the speed which she would have if the propelling instrument acted upon a solid; also, the velocity, relatively to still water, of the backward current of water produced by the propeller.  19. (Zoöl.)  A fish, the sole.  20. (Cricket)  A fielder stationed on the off side and to the rear of the batsman. There are usually two of them, called respectively short slip, and long slip. To give one the slip, to slip away from one; to elude one.  -- Slip dock. See under Dock.  -- Slip link (Mach.), a connecting link so arranged as to allow some play of the parts, to avoid concussion.  -- Slip rope (Naut.), a rope by which a cable is secured preparatory to slipping. Totten.  -- Slip stopper (Naut.), an arrangement for letting go the anchor suddenly. 

SLIPBOARD:  A board sliding in grooves.  SLIPCOAT CHEESE Slip"coat` cheese".  A rich variety of new cheese, resembling butter, but white. Halliwell. 

SLIPES:  Sledge runners on which a skip is dragged in a mine. 

SLIPKNOT:  knot which slips along the rope or line around which it is made.  SLIP-ON Slip"-on`, n.  A kind of overcoat worn upon the shoulders in the manner of a cloak. [Scot.] 

SLIPPAGE:  The act of slipping; also, the amount of slipping. 

SLIPPER:  A piece, usually a plate, applied to a sliding piece, to receive wear and afford a means of adjustment; -- also called shoe, and gib. Slipper animalcule (Zoöl.), a ciliated infusorian of the genus Paramecium.  -- Slipper flower.(Bot.) Slipperwort.  -- Slipper limpet, or Slipper shell (Zoöl.), a boat shell. 

SLIPPER:  Slippery. [Obs.] O! trustless state of earthly things, and slipper hope Of mortal men. Spenser. 

SLIPPERED:  Wearing slippers. Shak. 

SLIPPERILY:  In a slippery manner. 

SLIPPERINESS:  The quality of being slippery. 

SLIPPERNESS:  Slipperiness. [Obs.] 

SLIPPERWORT:  See Calceolaria. 

SLIPPINESS:  Slipperiness. [R.] "The slippiness of the way." Sir W. Scott. 

SLIPPY:  Slippery. 

SLIPSHOE:  A slipper. Halliwell. 

SLIPSKIN:  Evasive. [Obs.] Milton. 

SLIPSLOP:  Weak, poor, or flat liquor; weak, profitless discourse or writing. 

SLIPSTRING:  One who has shaken off restraint; a prodigal. [Obs.] Cotgrave. 

SLIPTHRIFT:  A spendthrift. [Obs.] 

SLISH:  A cut; as, slish and slash. [Colloq.] Shak. 

SLIT:  3d. pers. sing. pres. of Slide. Chaucer. 

SLIT:  A long cut; a narrow opening; as, a slit in the ear. Gill slit. (Anat.) See Gill opening, under Gill. 

SLITHER:  To slide; to glide. [Prov. Eng.]  SLIT-SHELL Slit"-shell", n. (Zoöl.)  Any species of Pleurotomaria, a genus of beautiful, pearly, spiral gastropod shells having a deep slit in the outer lip. Many fossil species are known, and a few living ones are found in deep water in tropical seas. 

SLITTER:  One who, or that which, slits. 

SLITTING:  from Slit. Slitting file. See Illust. (i) of File.  -- Slitting mill. (a) A mill where iron bars or plates are slit into narrow strips, as nail rods, and the like. (b) A machine used by lapidaries for slicing stones, usually by means of a revolving disk, called a slicer, supplied with diamond powder.  -- Slitting roller, one of a pair of rollers furnished with ribs entering between similar ribs in the other roller, and cutting like shears, -- used in slitting metals. 

SLIVE:  To sneak. [Prov. Eng.] 

SLIVE:  To cut; to split; to separate. [Obs.] Holland. 

SLIVER:  To cut or divide into long, thin pieces, or into very small pieces; to cut or rend lengthwise; to slit; as, to sliver wood. Shak. They 'll sliver thee like a turnip. Sir W. Scott. 

SLIVER:  Bait made of pieces of small fish. Cf. Kibblings. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett. 

SLOAKAN:  A species of seaweed. [Spelled also slowcawn.] See 3d Laver. 

SLOAM:  A layer of earth between coal seams. 

SLOAT:  A narrow piece of timber which holds together large pieces; a slat; as, the sloats of a cart. 

SLOBBER:  See Slabber. 

SLOBBER:  A jellyfish. [Prov. Eng.]  3. pl. (Vet.)  Salivation. 

SLOBBERY:  Wet; sloppy, as land. Shak.  SLOCK; SLOCKEN Slock, Slock"en, v. t.  To quench; to allay; to slake. See Slake. [Obs. or Scot.] 

SLOCKING:  from Slock. Slocking stone, a rich piece of ore displayed in order to tempt persons to embark in a mining enterprise. 

SLOE:  A small, bitter, wild European plum, the fruit of the blackthorn (Prunus spinosa); also, the tree itself. 

SLOG:  To hit hard, esp. with little attention to aim or the like, as in cricket or boxing; to slug. [Cant or Slang] 

SLOGAN:  The war cry, or gathering word, of a Highland clan in Scotland; hence, any rallying cry. Sir W. Scott. 

SLOGGER:  A hard hitter; a slugger. [Cant or Slang]  T. Hughes. 

SLOGGY:  Sluggish. [Obs.] Somnolence that is sloggy slumbering Chaucer. 

SLOKE:  See Sloakan.  SLOO; SLUE Sloo, or Slue, n.  A slough; a run or wet place. See 2d Slough, 2. 

SLOOM:  Slumber. [Prov. Eng.] 

SLOOMY:  Sluggish; slow. [Prov. Eng.] 

SLOOP:  A vessel having one mast and fore-and-aft rig, consisting of a boom-and-gaff mainsail, jibs, staysail, and gaff topsail. The typical sloop has a fixed bowsprit, topmast, and standing rigging, while those of a cutter are capable of being readily shifted. The sloop usually carries a centerboard, and depends for stability upon breadth of beam rather than depth of keel. The two types have rapidly approximated since 1880. One radical distinction is that a slop may carry a centerboard. See Cutter, and Illustration in Appendix. Sloop of war, formerly, a vessel of war rigged either as a ship, brig, or schooner, and mounting from ten to thirty-two guns; now, any war vessel larger than a gunboat, and carrying guns on one deck only. 

SLOP:  Dirty water; water in which anything has been washed or rinsed; water from wash-bowls, etc. Slop basin, or Slop bowl, a basin or bowl for holding slops, especially for receiving the rinsings of tea or coffee cups at the table.  -- Slop molding (Brickmaking), a process of manufacture in which the brick is carried to the drying ground in a wet mold instead of on a pallet. 

SLOP:  To overflow or be spilled as a liquid, by the motion of the vessel containing it; -- often with over. 

SLOP:  Ready-made clothes; also, among seamen, clothing, bedding, and other furnishings. 

SLOPE:  Sloping. "Down the slope hills." Milton. A bank not steep, but gently slope. Bacon. 

SLOPE:  In a sloping manner. [Obs.] Milton. 

SLOPE:  To form with a slope; to give an oblique or slanting direction to; to direct obliquely; to incline; to slant; as, to slope the ground in a garden; to slope a piece of cloth in cutting a garment. 

SLOPENESS:  State of being slope. Sir H. Wotton. 

SLOPEWISE:  Obliquely. [Obs.] Carew. 

SLOPING:  Inclining or inclined from the plane of the horizon, or from a horizontal or other right line; oblique; declivous; slanting.  -- Slop"ing*ly, adv. The sloping land recedes into the clouds. Cowper. 

SLOPPINESS:  The quality or state of being sloppy; muddiness. 

SLOPPY:  Wet, so as to spatter easily; wet, as with something slopped over; muddy; plashy; as, a sloppy place, walk, road. 

SLOPSELLER:  One who sells slops, or ready-made clothes. See 4th Slop, 3. 

SLOPSHOP:  A shop where slops. or ready-made clothes, are sold. 

SLOPWORK:  The manufacture of slops, or cheap ready-made clothing; also, such clothing; hence, hasty, slovenly work of any kind. No slopwork ever dropped from his [Carlyle's] pen. Froude. 

SLOPY:  Sloping; inclined.  SLOSH; SLOSHY Slosh, Slosh"y.  See Slush, Slushy. 

SLOT:  To shut with violence; to slam; as, to slot a door. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SLOT:  The track of a deer; hence, a track of any kind. Milton. As a bloodhound follows the slot of a hurt deer. Sir W. Scott. 

SLOTH:  Any one of several species of arboreal edentates constituting the family Bradypodidæ, and the suborder Tardigrada. They have long exserted limbs and long prehensile claws. Both jaws are furnished with teeth (see Illust. of Edentata), and the ears and tail are rudimentary. They inhabit South and Central America and Mexico.  Note: The three-toed sloths belong to the genera Bradypus and Arctopithecus, of which several species have been described. They have three toes on each foot. The best-known species are collared sloth (Bradypus tridactylus), and the ai (Arctopitheus ai). The two- toed sloths, consisting the genus Cholopus, have two toes on each fore foot and three on each hind foot. The best-known is the unau (Cholopus didactylus) of South America. See Unau. Another species (C. Hoffmanni) inhabits Central America. Various large extinct terrestrial edentates, such as Megatherium and Mylodon, are often called sloths. Australian, or Native sloth (Zoöl.), the koala.  -- Sloth animalcule (Zoöl.), a tardigrade.  -- Sloth bear (Zoöl.), a black or brown long-haired bear (Melursus ursinus, or labiatus), native of India and Ceylon; -- called also aswail, labiated bear, and jungle bear. It is easily tamed and can be taught many tricks.  -- Sloth monkey (Zoöl.), a loris. 

SLOTH:  To be idle. [Obs.] Gower. 

SLOTHFUL:  Addicted to sloth; inactive; sluggish; lazy; indolent; idle. He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster. Prov. xviii. 9. -- Sloth"ful*ly, adv.  -- Sloth"ful*ness, n. 

SLOTHHOUND:  See Sleuthhound.  SLOT MACHINE Slot" ma*chine".  A machine the operation of which is started by dropping a coin into a slot, for delivering small articles of merchandise, showing one's weight, exhibiting pictures, throwing dice, etc. 

SLOTTED:  Having a slot. 

SLOTTING:  The act or process of making slots, or mortises. 

SLOUCH:  To cause to hang down; to depress at the side; as, to slouth the hat. 

SLOUCHING:  Hanging down at the side; limp; drooping; without firmness or shapeliness; moving in an ungainly manner. 

SLOUCHY:  Slouching. [Colloq.] 

SLOUGH:  Slow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SLOUGH:  A wet place; a swale; a side channel or inlet from a river.  Note: [In this sense local or provincial; also spelt sloo, and slue.] Slough grass (Bot.), a name in the Mississippi valley for grasses of the genus Muhlenbergia; -- called also drop seed, and nimble Will. 

SLOUGH:  imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew. Chaucer. 

SLOUGH:  The dead mass separating from a foul sore; the dead part which separates from the living tissue in mortification. 

SLOUGH:  To form a slough; to separate in the form of dead matter from the living tissues; -- often used with off, or away; as, a sloughing ulcer; the dead tissues slough off slowly. 

SLOUGH:  To cast off; to discard as refuse. New tint the plumage of the birds, And slough decay from grazing herds. Emerson. 

SLOUGHING:  The act of casting off the skin or shell, as do insects and crustaceans; ecdysis. 

SLOUGHY:  Full of sloughs, miry. 

SLOUGHY:  Resembling, or of the nature of, a slough, or the dead matter which separates from living flesh. 

SLOVEN:  A man or boy habitually negligent of neathess and order; -- the correlative term to slattern, or slut. Pope. He became a confirmed sloven. Macaulay. 

SLOVENLINESS:  The quality or state of being slovenly. 

SLOVENLY:  a slovenly manner. 

SLOVENNESS:  Slovenliness. [Obs.] Fuller. 

SLOVENRY:  Slovenliness. [Obs.] Shak. 

SLOW:  imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew. Chaucer. 

SLOW:  Slowly. Let him have time to mark how slow time goes In time of sorrow. Shak. 

SLOW:  To render slow; to slacken the speed of; to retard; to delay; as, to slow a steamer. Shak. 

SLOW:  To go slower; -- often with up; as, the train slowed up before crossing the bridge. 

SLOW:  A moth. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

SLOWBACK:  A lubber; an idle fellow; a loiterer. [Old Slang] Dr. Favour. 

SLOWH:  imp. of Slee,to slay. Chaucer. 

SLOWHOUND:  A sleuthhound. [R.] 

SLOWLY:  In a slow manner; moderately; not rapidly; not early; not rashly; not readly; tardly. 

SLOWNESS:  The quality or state of being slow. 

SLOWS:  Milk sickness.  SLOW-WITTED Slow"-wit`ted, a.  Dull of apprehension; not possessing quick intelligence. 

SLOWWORM:  A lecertilian reptile; the blindworm. 

SLOYD:  Lit., skilled mechanical work, such as that required in wood carving; trade work; hence, a system (usually called the sloyd system) of manual training in the practical use of the tools and materials used in the trades, and of instruction in the making and use of the plans and specifications connected with trade work. The sloyd system derives its name from the fact that it was adopted or largely developed from a similar Swedish system, in which wood carving was a chief feature. Its purpose is not only to afford practical skill in some trade, but also to develop the pupils mentally and physically. 

SLUB:  A roll of wool slightly twisted; a rove; -- called also slubbing. 

SLUB:  To draw out and twist slightly; -- said of slivers of wool. 

SLUBBER:  A slubbing machine. 

SLUBBERDEGULLION:  A mean, dirty wretch. [Low] 

SLUBBERINGLY:  In a slovenly, or hurried and imperfect, manner. [Low] Drayton. 

SLUBBING:  from Slub. Slubbing billy, or Slubbing machine, the machine by which slubs are formed. 

SLUDGE:  See Slime, 4. Sludge hole, the hand-hole, or manhole, in a steam boiler, by means of which sediment can be removed.  SLUDGE ACID Sludge acid.  Impure dark-colored sulphuric acid that has been used in the refining of petroleum. 

SLUDGER:  A bucket for removing mud from a bored hole; a sand pump. 

SLUDGER:  A shovel for sludging out drains, etc. 

SLUDY:  Miry; slushy. 

SLUE:  To turn about a fixed point, usually the center or axis, as a spar or piece of timber; to turn; -- used also of any heavy body.  2. In general, to turn about; to twist; -- often used reflexively and followed by round. [Colloq.] They laughed, and slued themselves round. Dickens. 

SLUE:  To turn about; to turn from the course; to slip or slide and turn from an expected or desired course; -- often followed by round. 

SLUE:  See Sloough, 2. [Local] 

SLUG:  Any one of numerous species of terrestrial pulmonate mollusks belonging to Limax and several related genera, in which the shell is either small and concealed in the mantle, or altogether wanting. They are closely allied to the land snails.  4. (Zoöl.)  Any smooth, soft larva of a sawfly or moth which creeps like a mollusk; as, the pear slug; rose slug.  5. A ship that sails slowly. [Obs.] Halliwell. His rendezvous for his fleet, and for all slugs to come to, should be between Calais and Dover. Pepys.  6. Etym: [Perhaps a different word.]  An irregularly shaped piece of metal, used as a missile for a gun.  7. (Print.)  A thick strip of metal less than type high, and as long as the width of a column or a page, -- used in spacing out pages and to separate display lines, etc. Sea slug. (Zoöl.) (a) Any nudibranch mollusk. (b) A holothurian.  -- Slug caterpillar. Same as Slugworm. 

SLUG:  To move slowly; to lie idle. [Obs.] To slug in sloth and sensual delight. Spenser. 

SLUG:  To make sluggish. [Obs.] Milton. 

SLUG:  To become reduced in diameter, or changed in shape, by passing from a larger to a smaller part of the bore of the barrel; -- said of a bullet when fired from a gun, pistol, or other firearm. 

SLUGABED:  One who indulges in lying abed; a sluggard. [R.] "Fie, you slugabed!" Shak. 

SLUGGARD:  A person habitually lazy, idle, and inactive; a drone. Go to the ant, thou sluggard; considered her ways, and be wise. Prov. vi. 6. 

SLUGGARD:  Sluggish; lazy. Dryden. 

SLUGGARDIZE:  To make lazy. [R.] Shak. 

SLUGGARDY:  The state of being a sluggard; sluggishness; sloth. Gower. Idleness is rotten sluggardy. Chaucer. 

SLUGGER:  One who strikes heavy blows; hence, a boxer; a prize fighter. [Cant or Slang]  SLUGGING MATCH Slug"ging match.  (a) A boxing match or prize fight marked rather by heavy hitting than skill. [Cant or Slang]  (b) A ball game, esp. a baseball game, in which  there is much hard hitting of the ball. [Slang, U. S.] 

SLUGGY:  Sluggish. [Obs.] Chaucer.  SLUG-HORN Slug"-horn`, a.  An erroneous form of the Scotch word slughorne, or sloggorne, meaning slogan. 

SLUGS:  Half-roasted ore. 

SLUGWORM:  Any caterpillar which has the general appearance of a slug, as do those of certain moths belonging to Limacodes and allied genera, and those of certain sawflies. 

SLUICE:  A long box or trough through which water flows, -- used for washing auriferous earth. Sluice gate, the sliding gate of a sluice. 

SLUICEWAY:  An artificial channel into which water is let by a sluice; specifically, a trough constructed over the bed of a stream, so that logs, lumber, or rubbish can be floated down to some convenient place of delivery. 

SLUICY:  Falling copiously or in streams, as from a sluice. And oft whole sheets descend of sluicy rain. Dryden. 

SLUM:  Same as Slimes. 

SLUMBER:  Sleep; especially, light sleep; sleep that is not deep or sound; repose. He at last fell into a slumber, and thence into a fast sleep, which detained him in that place until it was almost night. Bunyan. Fast asleep It is no matter; Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber. Shak. Rest to my soul, and slumber to my eyes. Dryden. 

SLUMBERER:  One who slumbers; a sleeper. 

SLUMBERINGLY:  In a slumbering manner. 

SLUMBERLESS:  Without slumber; sleepless. 

SLUMBERY:  Sleepy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SLUMBROUS:  Slumberous. Keats. 

SLUMGUM:  The impure residue, consisting of cocoons, propolis, etc., remaining after the wax is extracted from honeycombs. 

SLUMMING:  Visiting slums. 

SLUMP:  The gross amount; the mass; the lump. [Scot.] 

SLUMP:  To lump; to throw into a mess. These different groups . . . are exclusively slumped together under that sense. Sir W. Hamilton. 

SLUMP:  To fall or sink suddenly through or in, when walking on a surface, as on thawing snow or ice, partly frozen ground, a bog, etc., not strong enough to bear the person. The latter walk on a bottomless quag, into which unawares they may slump. Barrow. 

SLUMPY:  Easily broken through; boggy; marshy; swampy. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett. 

SLUNG:  imp. & p. p. of Sling. Slung shot, a metal ball of small size, with a string attached, used by ruffians for striking. 

SLUNK:  imp. & p. p. of Slink. 

SLUR:  To sing or perform in a smooth, gliding style; to connect smoothly in performing, as several notes or tones. Busby.  7. (Print.)  To blur or double, as an impression from type; to mackle. 

SLUR:  A mark, thus [&upslur; or ], connecting notes that are to be sung to the same syllable, or made in one continued breath of a wind instrument, or with one stroke of a bow; a tie; a sign of legato.  4. In knitting machines, a contrivance for depressing the sinkers successively by passing over them. 

SLURRED:  Marked with a slur; performed in a smooth, gliding style, like notes marked with a slur. 

SLUSH:  A mixture of white lead and lime, with which the bright parts of machines, such as the connecting rods of steamboats, are painted to be preserved from oxidation. 

SLUSHY:  Abounding in slush; characterized by soft mud or half-melted snow; as, the streets are slushy; the snow is slushy. "A dark, drizzling, slushy day." Blackw. Mag. 

SLUTCH:  Slush. [Prov. Eng.] 

SLUTCHY:  Slushy. [Prov. Eng.] Pennant. 

SLUTHHOUND:  Sleuthhound. 

SLUTTERY:  The qualities and practices of a slut; sluttishness; slatternlines. Drayton. 

SLUTTISH:  Like a slut; untidy; indecently negligent of cleanliness; disorderly; as, a sluttish woman. Why is thy lord so slutish, I thee pray. Chaucer. An air of liberal, though sluttish, plenty, indicated the wealthy farmer. Sir W. Scott. -- Slut"tish*ly, adv.  -- Slut"tish*ness, n. 

SLY:  Slyly. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. 

SLYBOOTS:  A humerous appellation for a sly, cunning, or waggish person. Slyboots was cursedly cunning to hide 'em. Goldsmith. 

SLYLY:  In a sly manner; shrewdly; craftily. Honestly and slyly he it spent. Chaucer. 

SLYNESS:  The quality or state of being sly. 

SLYPE:  A narrow passage between two buildings, as between the transept and chapter house of a monastery. [Eng.] 

SMACK:  A small sailing vessel, commonly rigged as a sloop, used chiefly in the coasting and fishing trade. 

SMACK:  As if with a smack or slap. [Colloq.] 

SMACKING:  A sharp, quick noise; a smack. Like the faint smacking of an after kiss. Dryden. 

SMACKING:  Making a sharp, brisk sound; hence, brisk; as, a smacking breeze. 

SMALL:  Smallclothes. [Colloq.] Hood. Dickens.  3. pl.  Same as Little go. See under Little, a. 

SMALL:  To make little or less. [Obs.] 

SMALLAGE:  A biennial umbelliferous plant (Apium graveolens) native of the seacoats of Europe and Asia. When deprived of its acrid and even poisonous properties by cultivation, it becomes celery. 

SMALLCLOTHES:  A man's garment for the hips and thighs; breeches. See Breeches. 

SMALLISH:  Somewhat small. G. W. Cable. 

SMALLNESS:  The quality or state of being small. 

SMALLPOX:  A contagious, constitutional, febrile disease characterized by a peculiar eruption; variola. The cutaneous eruption is at first a collection of papules which become vesicles (first flat, subsequently umbilicated) and then pustules, and finally thick crusts which slough after a certain time, often leaving a pit, or scar. 

SMALLS:  See Small, n., 2, 3. 

SMALLSWORD:  A light sword used for thrusting only; especially, the sword worn by civilians of rank in the eighteenth century. 

SMALLY:  In a small quantity or degree; with minuteness. [R.] Ascham. 

SMALT:  A deep blue pigment or coloring material used in various arts. It is a vitreous substance made of cobalt, potash, and calcined quartz fused, and reduced to a powder.  SMALT-BLUE Smalt"-blue`, a.  Deep blue, like smalt.  SMALTINE; SMALTITE Smalt"ine, Smalt"ite, n. Etym: [See Smalt.] (Min.)  A tin-white or gray mineral of metallic luster. It is an arsenide of cobalt, nickel, and iron. Called also speiskobalt. 

SMARAGD:  The emerald. [Obs.] Bale. 

SMARAGDINE:  Of or pertaining to emerald; resembling emerald; of an emerald green. 

SMARAGDITE:  A green foliated kind of amphibole, observed in eclogite and some varietis of gabbro. 

SMART:  To cause a smart in. "A goad that . . . smarts the flesh." T. Adams. 

SMARTEN:  To make smart or spruce; -- usually with up. [Colloq.] She had to go and smarten herself up somewhat. W. Black. 

SMARTLE:  To waste away. [Prov. Eng.] 

SMARTLY:  In a smart manner. 

SMARTNESS:  The quality or state of being smart. 

SMARTWEED:  An acrid plant of the genus Polygonum (P. Hydropiper), which produces smarting if applied where the skin is tender. 

SMASH:  To break in pieces by violence; to dash to pieces; to crush. Here everything is broken and smashed to pieces. Burke. 

SMASH:  To break up, or to pieces suddenly, as the result of collision or pressure. 

SMATCH:  Taste; tincture; smack. [Obs.] Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it. Shak. 

SMATCH:  To smack. [Obs.] Banister (1578). 

SMATTER:  Superficial knowledge; a smattering. 

SMATTERER:  One who has only a slight, superficial knowledge; a sciolist. 

SMATTERING:  A slight, superficial knowledge of something; sciolism. I had a great desire, not able to attain to a superficial skill in any, to have some smattering in all. Burton. 

SMEARCASE:  Cottage cheese. [Local, U. S.]  SMEAR DAB Smear" dab". (Zoöl.)  The sand fluke (b). [Prov. Eng.] 

SMEARED:  Having the color mark ings ill defined, as if rubbed; as, the smeared dagger moth (Apatela oblinita). 

SMEARY:  Tending to smear or soil; adhesive; viscous. Rowe. 

SMEATH:  The smew. [Prov. Eng.] 

SMECTITE:  A hydrous silicate of alumina, of a greenish color, which, in certain states of humidity, appears transparent and almost gelatinous. 

SMEETH:  To smoke; to blacken with smoke; to rub with soot. [Obs.] 

SMEETH:  To smooth. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SMEGMA:  The matter secreted by any of the sebaceous glands. Specifically: (a) The soapy substance covering the skin of newborn infants. (b) The cheesy, sebaceous matter which collects between the glans penis and the foreskin. 

SMEGMATIC:  Being of the nature of soap; soapy; cleansing; detersive. 

SMEIR:  A salt glaze on pottery, made by adding common salt to an earthenware glaze. 

SMELLING:  An aromatic preparation of carbonate of ammonia and, often, some scent, to avoid or relieve faintness, headache, or the like.  SMELL-LESS Smell"-less, a.  Destitute of smell; having no odor. Daisies smell-less, yet most quaint. Beau & Fl. 

SMELT:  of Smell. 

SMELT:  Any one of numerous species of small silvery salmonoid fishes of the genus Osmerus and allied genera, which ascend rivers to spawn, and sometimes become landlocked in lakes. They are esteemed as food, and have a peculiar odor and taste.  Note: The most important species are the European smelt (Osmerus eperlans) (called also eperlan, sparling, and spirling), the Eastern American smelt (O. mordax), the California smelt (O. thalichthys), and the surf smelt (Hypomesus olidus). The name is loosely applied to various other small fishes, as the lant, the California tomcod, the spawn eater, the silverside.  2. Fig.: A gull; a simpleton. [Obs.] eau & Fl. Sand smelt (Zoöl.), the silverside. 

SMELT:  To melt or fuse, as, ore, for the purpose of separating and refining the metal; hence, to reduce; to refine; to flux or scorify; as, to smelt tin. 

SMELTER:  One who, or that which, smelts. 

SMELTERY:  A house or place for smelting. 

SMELTIE:  A fish, the bib. [Prov. Eng.] 

SMELTING:  a. & n. from Smelt. Smelting furnace (Metal.), a furnace in which ores are smelted or reduced. 

SMERK:  See Smirk.  SMERK; SMERKY Smerk, Smerk"y, a.  Smart; jaunty; spruce. See Smirk, a. [Obs.] So smerk, so smooth, his pricked ears. Spenser. 

SMERLIN:  A small loach. 

SMICKER:  To look amorously or wantonly; to smirk. 

SMICKER:  Amorous; wanton; gay; spruce. [Obs.] 

SMICKERING:  Amorous glance or inclination. [Obs.] "A smickering to our young lady." Dryden. 

SMICKET:  A woman's under-garment; a smock. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Johnson. 

SMICKLY:  Smugly; finically. [Obs.] Ford. 

SMIDDY:  A smithy. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SMIFT:  A match for firing a charge of powder, as in blasting; a fuse. 

SMIGHT:  To smite. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SMILACIN:  See Parrilin. 

SMILELESS:  Not having a smile. 

SMILER:  One who smiles. Tennyson. 

SMILET:  A little smile. [R.] Those happy smilets That played on her ripe lip. Shak. 

SMILINGLY:  In a smiling manner. Shak. 

SMILINGNESS:  Quality or state of being smiling. And made despair a smilingness assume. Byron. 

SMILODON:  An extinct genus of saber-toothed tigers. See Mach. 

SMILT:  To melt. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

SMINTHURID:  Any one of numerous small species of springtails, of the family Sminthurid, -- usually found on flowers. See Illust. under Collembola. 

SMIRCH:  To smear with something which stains, or makes dirty; to smutch; to begrime; to soil; to sully. I'll . . . with a kind of umber smirch my face. Shak. 

SMIRCH:  A smutch; a dirty stain. 

SMIRK:  To smile in an affected or conceited manner; to smile with affected complaisance; to simper. 

SMIRK:  A forced or affected smile; a simper. The bride, all smirk and blush, had just entered. Sir W. Scott. 

SMIRK:  Nice,; smart; spruce; affected; simpering. "So smirk, so smooth." Spenser. 

SMIRKINGLY:  With smirking; with a smirk. 

SMIRKY:  Smirk; smirking. 

SMIT:  imp. & p. p. of Smite. Spenser. Smit with the beauty of so fair a scene. Cowper. 

SMIT:  3d. pers. sing. pres. of Smite. Chaucer. 

SMITE:  To strike; to collide; to beat. [Archaic] The heart meleth, and the knees smite together. Nah. ii. 10. 

SMITE:  The act of smiting; a blow. 

SMITER:  One who smites. I give my back to the smiters. Isa. l. 6. 

SMITH:  To beat into shape; to fprge. [Obs.] Chaucer. What smith that any [weapon] smitheth. Piers Plowman. 

SMITHCRAFT:  The art or occupation of a smith; smithing. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

SMITHER:  Fragments; atoms; finders. [Prov. Eng.] Smash the bottle to smithers. Tennyson. 

SMITHEREENS:  Fragments; atoms; smithers. [Colloq.] W. Black. 

SMITHING:  The act or art of working or forging metals, as iron, into any desired shape. Moxon. 

SMITHSONIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Englishman J.L.M. Smithson, or to the national institution of learning which he endowed at Washington, D.C.; as, the Smithsonian Institution; Smithsonian Reports.  -- n.  The Smithsonian Institution. 

SMITHSONITE:  Native zinc carbonate. It generally occurs in stalactitic, reniform, or botryoidal shapes, of a white to gray, green, or brown color. See Note under Calamine. 

SMITHY:  The workshop of a smith, esp. a blacksmith; a smithery; a stithy. [Written also smiddy.] Under a spreading chestnut tree The village smithy stands. Lonfellow. 

SMITT:  Fine clay or ocher made up into balls, used for marking sheep. [Eng.] Woodsward. 

SMITTEN:  p. p. of Smite. 

SMITTLE:  To infect. [Prov. Eng.] 

SMITTLE:  Infection. [Pov. Eng.] Wright.  SMITTLE; SMITTLISH Smit"tle, Smit"tlish, a.  Infectious; catching. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] H. Kingsley. 

SMOCK:  Of or pertaining to a smock; resembling a smock; hence, of or pertaining to a woman. Smock mill, a windmill of which only the cap turns round to meet the wind, in distinction from a post mill, whose whole building turns on a post.  -- Smock race, a race run by women for the prize of a smock. [Prov. Eng.] 

SMOCK:  To provide with, or clothe in, a smock or a smock frock. Tennyson.  SMOCK-FACED Smock"-faced`, a.  Having a feminine countenance or complexion; smooth-faced; girlish. Fenton.  SMOCK FROCK Smock" frock`.  A coarse frock, or shirt, worn over the other dress, as by farm laborers. Macaulay. 

SMOCKLESS:  Wanting a smock. Chaucer. 

SMOKABLE:  Capable of being smoked; suitable or ready to be smoked; as, smokable tobacco. 

SMOKE:  Same as Puffball.  SMOKE-DRY Smoke"-dry`, v. t.  To dry by or in smoke. 

SMOKEHOUSE:  A building where meat or fish is cured by subjecting it to a dense smoke. 

SMOKEJACK:  A contrivance for turning a spit by means of a fly or wheel moved by the current of ascending air in a chimney. 

SMOKELESS:  Making or having no smoke. "Smokeless towers." Pope.  SMOKELESS POWDER Smoke"less pow"der.  A high-explosive gunpowder whose explosion produces little, if any, smoke. 

SMOKESTACK:  A chimney; esp., a pipe serving as a chimney, as the pipe which carries off the smoke of a locomotive, the funnel of a steam vessel, etc. 

SMOKILY:  In a smoky manner. 

SMOKINESS:  The quality or state of being smoky. 

SMOKING:  from Smoke. Smoking bean (Bot.), the long pod of the catalpa, or Indian-bean tree, often smoked by boys as a substitute for cigars.  -- Smoking car, a railway car carriage reserved for the use of passengers who smoke tobacco. 

SMOKY:  To smother; to suffocate; to choke. [Obs.] Holinshed. Palsgrave.  SMOLDER; SMOULDER Smol"der, Smoul"der, n.  Smoke; smother. [Obs.] The smolder stops our nose with stench. Gascoigne.  SMOLDERING; SMOULDERING Smol"der*ing, Smoul"der*ing, a.  Being in a state of suppressed activity; quiet but not dead. Some evil chance Will make the smoldering scandal break and blaze. Tennyson.  SMOLDERINGNESS; SMOULDERINGNESS Smol"der*ing*ness, Smoul"der*ing*ness, n.  The state of smoldering.  SMOLDRY; SMOULDRY Smol"dry, Smoul"dry, a.  Smoldering; suffocating; smothery. [Obs.] A flaming fire ymixt with smoldry smoke. Spenser. 

SMOLT:  A young salmon two or three years old, when it has acquired its silvery color. 

SMOOCH:  See Smutch. 

SMOOR:  To suffocate or smother. [Written also smore.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir T. More. Burns. 

SMOOTH:  Causing no resistance to a body sliding along its surface; frictionless.  Note: Smooth is often used in the formation of selfexplaining compounds; as, smooth-bodied, smooth-browed, smooth-combed, smooth- faced, smooth-finished, smooth-gliding, smooth-grained, smooth- leaved, smooth-sliding, smooth-speaking, smooth-woven, and the like.  Syn.  -- Even; plain; level; flat; polished; glossy; sleek; soft; bland; mild; soothing; voluble; flattering; adulatory; deceptive. 

SMOOTH:  Smoothly. Chaucer. Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep. Shak. 

SMOOTH:  To make smooth; to make even on the surface by any means; as, to smooth a board with a plane; to smooth cloth with an iron. Specifically: -- (a) To free from obstruction; to make easy. Thou, Abelard! the last sad office pay, And smooth my passage to the realms of day. Pope.  (b) To free from harshness; to make flowing. In their motions harmony divine So smooths her charming tones that God's own ear Listens delighted. Milton.  (c) To palliate; to gloze; as, to smooth over a fault. (d) To give a smooth or calm appearance to. Each perturbation smoothed with outward calm. Milton.  (e) To ease; to regulate. Dryden. 

SMOOTH:  To flatter; to use blandishment. Because I can not flatter and speak fair, Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive and cog. Shak. 

SMOOTHBORE:  Having a bore of perfectly smooth surface; -- distinguished from rifled.  -- n.  A smoothbore firearm.  SMOOTH-CHINNED Smooth"-chinned`, a.  Having a smooth chin; beardless. Drayton. 

SMOOTHEN:  To make smooth. [Obs.] 

SMOOTHER:  One who, or that which, smooths. 

SMOOTHING:  fr. Smooth, v. Smoothing iron, an iron instrument with a polished face, for smoothing clothes; a sadiron; a flatiron.  -- Smoothing plane, a short, finely set plane, for smoothing and finishing work. 

SMOOTHLY:  In a smooth manner. 

SMOOTHNESS:  Quality or state of being smooth.  SMOOTH-SPOKEN Smooth"-spo`ken, a.  Speaking smoothly; plausible; flattering; smooth-tongued.  SMOOTH-TONGUED Smooth"-tongued`, a.  Having a smooth tongue; plausible; flattering. 

SMORE:  To smother. See Smoor. [Obs.] Some dying vomit blood, and some were smored. Du Bartas.  SMORZANDO; SMORSATO Smor*zan"do, Smor*sa"to, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)  Growing gradually fainter and softer; dying away; morendo. 

SMOTE:  imp. (and rare p. p.) of Smite. 

SMOTERLICH:  Dirty foul. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SMOTHER:  Checkmate given when movement of the king is completely obstructed by his own men. 

SMOTHERINESS:  The quality or state of being smothery. 

SMOTHERINGLY:  In a smothering manner. 

SMOTHERY:  Tending to smother; stifling. 

SMOUCH:  To kiss closely. [Obs.] P. Stubbes. 

SMOUCH:  To smutch; to soil; as, to smouch the face. 

SMOUCH:  A dark soil or stain; a smutch. 

SMOULDER:  See Smolder. 

SMOULDRY:  See Smoldry. 

SMUDGINESS:  The quality or state of being smudged, soiled, or blurred. C. A. Young. 

SMUG:  Studiously neat or nice, especially in dress; spruce; affectedly precise; smooth and prim. They be so smug and smooth. Robynson (More's Utopia). The smug and scanty draperies of his style. De Quincey. A young, smug, handsome holiness has no fellow. Beau & Fl. 

SMUG:  To make smug, or spruce. [Obs.] Thus said, he smugged his beard, and stroked up fair. Dryton. 

SMUGGLE:  To import or export in violation of the customs laws. 

SMUGLY:  In a smug manner. [R.] Gay. 

SMUGNESS:  The quality or state of being smug. 

SMUT:  Bad, soft coal, containing much earthy matter, found in the immediate locality of faults.  3. (Bot.)  An affection of cereal grains producing a swelling which is at length resolved into a powdery sooty mass. It is caused by parasitic fungi of the genus Ustilago. Ustilago segetum, or U. Carbo, is the commonest kind; that of Indian corn is Ustilago maydis.  4. Obscene language; ribaldry; obscenity. He does not stand upon decency . . . but will talk smut, though a priest and his mother be in the room. Addison. Smut mill, a machine for cleansing grain from smut. 

SMUTCH:  A stain; a dirty spot. B. Jonson. 

SMUTCH:  To blacken with smoke, soot, or coal. [Written also smooch.] B. Jonson. 

SMUTCHIN:  Snuff. [Obs.] Howell. 

SMYRNIOT:  Of or pertaining to Smyrna.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Smyrna. 

SNACKET:  See Snecket. [Prov. Eng.] 

SNACOT:  A pipefish of the genus Syngnathus. See Pipefish. 

SNAFFLE:  A kind of bridle bit, having a joint in the part to be placed in the mouth, and rings and cheek pieces at the ends, but having no curb; -- called also snaffle bit. 

SNAFFLE:  To put a snaffle in the mouth of; to subject to the snaffle; to bridle. 

SNAG:  One of the secondary branches of an antler. Snag boat, a steamboat fitted with apparatus for removing snags and other obstructions in navigable streams. [U.S.] -- Snag tooth. Same as Snag, 2. How thy snag teeth stand orderly, Like stakes which strut by the water side. J. Cotgrave. 

SNAGGED:  Full of snags; snaggy. 

SNAIL:  A spiral cam, or a flat piece of metal of spirally curved outline, used for giving motion to, or changing the position of, another part, as the hammer tail of a striking clock.  4. A tortoise; in ancient warfare, a movable roof or shed to protect besiegers; a testudo. [Obs.] They had also all manner of gynes [engines] . . . that needful is [in] taking or sieging of castle or of city, as snails, that was naught else but hollow pavises and targets, under the which men, when they fought, were heled [protected], . . . as the snail is in his house; therefore they cleped them snails. Vegetius (Trans.).  5. (Bot.)  The pod of the sanil clover. Ear snail, Edible snail, Pond snail, etc. See under Ear, Edible, etc.  -- Snail borer (Zoöl.), a boring univalve mollusk; a drill.  -- Snail clover (Bot.), a cloverlike plant (Medicago scuttellata, also, M. Helix); -- so named from its pods, which resemble the shells of snails; -- called also snail trefoil, snail medic, and beehive.  -- Snail flower (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Phaseolus Caracalla) having the keel of the carolla spirally coiled like a snail shell.  -- Snail shell (Zoöl.), the shell of snail.  -- Snail trefoil. (Bot.) See Snail clover, above. 

SNAILFISH:  See Sea snail (a).  SNAIL-LIKE Snail"-like`, a.  Like or suiting a snail; as, snail-like progress.  SNAIL-LIKE Snail"-like`, adv.  In the manner of a snail; slowly.  SNAIL-PACED Snail"-paced`, a.  Slow-moving, like a snail. Bid the snail-paced Ajax arm for shame. Shak.  'SNAILS 'Snails, interj.  God's nails, or His nails, that is, the nails with which the Savior was fastened to the cross; -- an ancient form of oath, corresponding to 'Od's bodikins (dim. of body, i.e., God's dear body). Beau & Fl. 

SNAKE:  Any species of the order Ophidia; an ophidian; a serpent, whether harmless or venomous. See Ophidia, and Serpent.  Note: Snakes are abundant in all warm countries, and much the larger number are harmless to man. Blind snake, Garter snake, Green snake, King snake, Milk snake, Rock snake, Water snake, etc. See under Blind, Garter, etc.  -- Fetich snake (Zoöl.), a large African snake (Python Sebæ) used by the natives as a fetich.  -- Ringed snake (Zoöl.), a common European columbrine snake (Tropidonotus natrix).  -- Snake eater. (Zoöl.) (a) The markhoor. (b) The secretary bird.  -- Snake fence, a worm fence (which see). [U.S.] -- Snake fly (Zoöl.), any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the genus Rhaphidia; -- so called because of their large head and elongated neck and prothorax.  -- Snake gourd (Bot.), a cucurbitaceous plant (Trichosanthes anguina) having the fruit shorter and less snakelike than that of the serpent cucumber.  -- Snake killer. (Zoöl.) (a) The secretary bird. (b) The chaparral cock.  -- Snake moss (Bot.), the common club moss (Lycopodium clavatum). See Lycopodium.  -- Snake nut (Bot.), the fruit of a sapindaceous tree (Ophiocaryon paradoxum) of Guiana, the embryo of which resembles a snake coiled up.  -- Tree snake (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of colubrine snakes which habitually live in trees, especially those of the genus Dendrophis and allied genera. 

SNAKE:  To wind round spirally, as a large rope with a smaller, or with cord, the small rope lying in the spaces between the strands of the large one; to worm. 

SNAKE:  To crawl like a snake. 

SNAKEBIRD:  The wryneck. 

SNAKENECK:  The snakebird, 1. 

SNAKEROOT:  Any one of several plants of different genera and species, most of which are (or were formerly) reputed to be efficacious as remedies for the bites of serpents; also, the roots of any of these.  Note: The Virginia snakeroot is Aristolochia Serpentaria; black snakeroot is Sanicula, esp. S. Marilandica, also Cimicifuga racemosa; Seneca snakeroot is Polygala Senega; button snakeroot is Liatris, also Eryngium; white snakeroot is Eupatorium ageratoides. The name is also applied to some others besides these.  SNAKE'S-HEAD Snake's"-head`, n. (Bot.)  The Guinea-hen flower; -- so called in England because its spotted petals resemble the scales of a snake's head. Dr. Prior. Snake's-head iris (Bot.), an iridaceous plant (Hermodactylus tuberosus) of the Mediterranean region. The flowers slightly resemble a serpent's open mouth. 

SNAKESTONE:  An ammonite; -- so called from its form, which resembles that of a coiled snake.  SNAKE'S-TONGUE Snake's-tongue`, n. (Bot.)  Same as Adder's-tongue. 

SNAKISH:  Having the qualities or characteristics of a snake; snaky. 

SNAP:  A snap beetle.  10. A thin, crisp cake, usually small, and flavored with ginger; -- used chiefly in the plural.  11. Briskness; vigor; energy; decision. [Colloq.]  12. Any circumstance out of which money may be made or an advantage gained. [Slang] Snap back (Football), the act of snapping back the ball.  -- Snap beetle, or Snap bug (Zoöl.), any beetle of the family Elateridæ, which, when laid on its back, is able to leap to a considerable height by means of a thoracic spring; -- called also snapping beetle.  -- Snap flask (Molding), a flask for small work, having its sides separable and held together by latches, so that the flask may be removed from around the sand mold.  -- Snap judgment, a judgment formed on the instant without deliberation.  -- Snap lock, a lock shutting with a catch or snap.  -- Snap riveting, riveting in which the rivets have snapheads formed by a die or swaging tool.  -- Snap shot, a quick offhand shot, without deliberately taking aim. 

SNAPE:  To bevel the end of a timber to fit against an inclined surface. 

SNAPHEAD:  A hemispherical or rounded head to a rivet or bolt; also, a swaging tool with a cavity in its face for forming such a rounded head. 

SNAPPER:  Any one of several species of large sparoid food fishes of the genus Lutjanus, abundant on the southern coasts of the United States and on both coasts of tropical America.  Note: The red snapper (Lutjanus aya, or Blackfordi) and the gray, or mangrove, snapper (L. griseus) are large and abundant species. The name is loosely applied to various other fishes, as the bluefish, the rosefish, the red grouper, etc. See Rosefish.  3. (Zoöl.)  A snapping turtle; as, the alligator snapper.  4. (Zoöl.)  The green woodpecker, or yaffle.  5. (Zoöl.)  A snap beetle. 

SNAPPING:  a. & n. from Snap, v. Snapping beetle. (Zoöl.) See Snap beetle, under Snap.  -- Snapping turtle. (Zoöl.) (a) A large and voracious aquatic turtle (Chelydra serpentina) common in the fresh waters of the United States; -- so called from its habit of seizing its prey by a snap of its jaws. Called also mud turtle. (b) See Alligator snapper, under Alligator. 

SNAPPY:  Snappish. [Colloq.] 

SNAPSACK:  A knapsack. [Obs.] South.  SNAPSHOT; SNAP SHOT Snap"shot`, n.  1. Commonly Snap shot.  (a) A quick offhand shot, made without deliberately taking aim over the sights.  (b) (Photog.) Act of taking a snapshot (in sense 2).  2.  An instantaneous photograph made, usually with a hand camera, without formal posing of, and often without the foreknowledge of, the subject. 

SNAPWEED:  See Impatiens. 

SNAR:  To snarl. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SNARE:  An instrument, consisting usually of a wireloop or noose, for removing tumors, etc., by avulsion. Snare drum, the smaller common military drum, as distinguished from the bass drum; -- so called because (in order to render it more resonant) it has stretched across its lower head a catgut string or strings. 

SNARE:  To catch with a snare; to insnare; to entangle; hence, to bring into unexpected evil, perplexity, or danger. Lest that too heavenly form . . . snare them. Milton. The mournful crocodile With sorrow snares relenting passengers. Shak. 

SNARER:  One who lays snares, or entraps. 

SNARL:  To form raised work upon the outer surface of (thin metal ware) by the repercussion of a snarling iron upon the inner surface. 

SNARL:  A knot or complication of hair, thread, or the like, difficult to disentangle; entanglement; hence, intricate complication; embarrassing difficulty. 

SNARL:  The act of snarling; a growl; a surly or peevish expression; an angry contention. 

SNARLER:  One who snarls; a surly, growling animal; a grumbling, quarrelsome fellow. 

SNARLER:  One who makes use of a snarling iron. 

SNARLING:  from Snarl, v. Snarling iron, a tool with a long beak, used in the process of snarling. When one end is held in a vise, and the shank is struck with a hammer, the repercussion of the other end, or beak, within the article worked upon gives the requisite blow for producing raised work. See 1st Snarl. 

SNARY:  Resembling, or consisting of, snares; entangling; insidious. Spiders in the vault their snary webs have spread. Dryden. 

SNAST:  The snuff, or burnt wick, of a candle. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SNATCH:  To attempt to seize something suddenly; to catch; -- often with at; as, to snatch at a rope. 

SNATCH:  a kind of block with an opening in one side to receive the bight of a rope. 

SNATCHER:  One who snatches, or takes abruptly. 

SNATCHINGLY:  By snatching; abruptly. 

SNATH:  The handle of a scythe; a snead. [Variously written in England snead, sneed, sneath, sneeth, snathe, etc.; in Scotland written sned.] 

SNATH:  The handle of a scythe; a snead. [Variously written in England snead, sneed, sneath, sneeth, snathe, etc.; in Scotland written sned.] 

SNATHE:  To lop; to prune. [Prov. Eng.] 

SNATTOCK:  A chip; a alice. [Prov. Eng.] Gayton. 

SNAW:  Snow. [Obs. or Scot.] Burns. 

SNEAK:  To hide, esp. in a mean or cowardly manner. [Obs.] "[Slander] sneaks its head." Wake. 

SNEAK:  A ball bowled so as to roll along the ground; -- called also grub. [Cant] R. A. Proctor.  SNEAK-CUP Sneak"-cup`, n.  One who sneaks from his cups; one who balks his glass. [Obs.] Shak.  SNEAK CURRENT Sneak current. (Elec.)  A current which, though too feeble to blow the usual fuse or to injure at once telegraph or telephone instruments, will in time burn them out. 

SNEAKINESS:  The quality of being sneaky. 

SNEAKING:  Marked by cowardly concealment; deficient in openness and courage; underhand; mean; crouching.  -- Sneak"ing*ly, adv.  -- Sneak"ing*ness, n. 

SNEAKSBY:  A paltry fellow; a sneak. [Obs.] "Such a bashful sneaksby." Barrow. 

SNEAKY:  Like a sneak; sneaking. 

SNEAP:  A reprimand; a rebuke. [Obs.] My lord, I will not undergo this sneap without reply. Shak.  SNEATH; SNEATHE Sneath, Sneathe, n.  See Snath. 

SNEB:  To reprimand; to sneap. [Obs.] "Scold and sneb the good oak." Spenser. 

SNECK:  To fasten by a hatch; to latch, as a door. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Sneck up, be silent; shut up; hold your peace. Shak. 

SNECK:  A door latch. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Sneck band, a latchstring. Burns.  -- Sneck drawer, a latch lifter; a bolt drawer; hence, a sly person; a cozener; a cheat; -- called also sneckdraw.  -- Sneck drawing, lifting the latch. 

SNECKET:  A door latch, or sneck. [Prov. Eng.] 

SNED:  To lop; to snathe. [Prov. Eng.]  SNED; SNEED Sned, Sneed, n.  See Snath. 

SNEERER:  One who sneers. 

SNEERFUL:  Given to sneering. [Obs.] 

SNEERINGLY:  In a sneering manner. 

SNEEZE:  To emit air, chiefly through the nose, audibly and violently, by a kind of involuntary convulsive force, occasioned by irritation of the inner membrane of the nose. Not to be sneezed at, not to be despised or contemned; not to be treated lightly. [Colloq.] "He had to do with old women who were not to be sneezed at." Prof. Wilson. 

SNEEZE:  A sudden and violent ejection of air with an audible sound, chiefly through the nose. 

SNEEZEWEED:  A yellow-flowered composite plant (Helenium autumnale) the odor of which is said to cause sneezing. 

SNEEZEWOOD:  The wood of a South African tree. See Neishout. 

SNEEZEWORT:  A European herbaceous plant (Achillea Ptarmica) allied to the yarrow, having a strong, pungent smell. 

SNEEZING:  The act of violently forcing air out through the nasal passages while the cavity of the mouth is shut off from the pharynx by the approximation of the soft palate and the base of the tongue. 

SNELL:  Active; brisk; nimble; quick; sharp. [Archaic or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] That horny-handed, snell, peremptory little man. Dr. J. Brown. 

SNELL:  A short line of horsehair, gut, etc., by which a fishhook is attached to a longer line. 

SNET:  The fat of a deer. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SNET:  The clear of mucus; to blow. [Obs.] "Snetting his nose." Holland. 

SNEW:  To snow; to abound. [Obs.] It snewed in his house of meat and drink. Chaucer. 

SNIB:  To check; to sneap; to sneb. [Obs.] Him would he snib sharply for the nones. Chaucer. 

SNIB:  A reprimand; a snub. [Obs.] Marston. 

SNICK:  A slight hit or tip of the ball, often unintentional.  3. (Fiber)  A knot or irregularity in yarn. Knight.  4. (Furriery)  A snip or cut, as in the hair of a beast. Snick and snee Etym: [cf. D. snee, snede, a cut], a combat with knives. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

SNICK:  To hit (a ball) lightly. R. A. Proctor. 

SNICK:  See Sneck. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Snick up, shut up; silenced. See Sneck up, under Sneck. Give him money, George, and let him go snick up. Beau & Fl. 

SNICKER:  A half suppressed, broken laugh. [Written also snigger.] 

SNIDE:  Tricky; deceptive; contemptible; as, a snide lawyer; snide goods. [Slang]  SNIDER RIFLE; SNIDER Sni"der ri"fle, or Sni"der, n. (Mil.)  A breech-loading rifle formerly used in the British service; -- so called from the inventor. 

SNIFF:  To draw air audibly up the nose; to snuff; -- sometimes done as a gesture of suspicion, offense, or contempt. So ye grow squeamish, gods, and sniff at heaven. M. Arnold. 

SNIFF:  The act of sniffing; perception by sniffing; that which is taken by sniffing; as, a sniff of air. 

SNIFFING:  A rapid inspiratory act, in which the mouth is kept shut and the air drawn in through the nose. 

SNIFFLE:  To snuffle, as one does with a catarrh. [Prov. Eng.] 

SNIFTING:  from Snift. Snifting valve, a small valve opening into the atmosphere from the cylinder or condenser of a steam engine, to allow the escape of air when the piston makes a stroke; -- so called from the noise made by its action. 

SNIG:  To chop off; to cut. [Prov. Eng.] 

SNIG:  To sneak. [Prov. Eng.]  SNIG; SNIGG Snig, Snigg, n. Etym: [Cf. Sneak.] (Zoöl.)  A small eel. [Prov. Eng.] 

SNIGGER:  See Snicker. Thackeray. 

SNIGGER:  See Snicker. Dickens. 

SNIGGLE:  To fish for eels by thrusting the baited hook into their holes or hiding places. Walton. 

SNIGGLE:  To catch, as an eel, by sniggling; hence, to hook; to insnare. Beau & Fl. 

SNIP:  To cut off the nip or neb of, or to cut off at once with shears or scissors; to clip off suddenly; to nip; hence, to break off; to snatch away. Curbed and snipped in my younger years by fear of my parents from those vicious excrescences to which that age was subject. Fuller. The captain seldom ordered anything out of the ship's stores . . . but I snipped some of it for my own share. De Foe. 

SNIPE:  Any one of numerous species of limicoline game birds of the family Scolopacidæ, having a long, slender, nearly straight beak.  Note: The common, or whole, snipe (Gallinago coelestis) and the great, or double, snipe (G. major), are the most important European species. The Wilson's snipe (G. delicata) (sometimes erroneously called English snipe) and the gray snipe, or dowitcher (Macrohamphus griseus), are well-known American species.  2. A fool; a blockhead. [R.] Shak. Half snipe, the dunlin; the jacksnipe.  -- Jack snipe. See Jacksnipe.  -- Quail snipe. See under Quail.  -- Robin snipe, the knot.  -- Sea snipe. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Shore snipe, any sandpiper.  -- Snipe hawk, the marsh harrier. [Prov. Eng.] -- Stone snipe, the tattler.  -- Summer snipe, the dunlin; the green and the common European sandpipers.  -- Winter snipe. See Rock snipe, under Rock.  -- Woodcock snipe, the great snipe. 

SNIPPACK:  The common snipe. [Prov. Eng.] 

SNIPPER:  One who snips.  SNIPPER-SNAPER Snip"per-snap`er, n.  A small, insignificant fellow. [Colloq.] 

SNIPPET:  A small part or piece. To be cut into snippets and shreds. F. Harrison. 

SNIPPETY:  Ridiculously small; petty. "Snippety facts." London Spectator.  SNIP-SNAP Snip"-snap`, n. Etym: [Reduplication of snap.]  A tart dialogue with quick replies. [R.] Pope.  SNIP-SNAP Snip"-snap`, a.  Quick; short; sharp; smart. Shak. 

SNIPY:  Like a snipe. 

SNITE:  A snipe. [Obs. or Scot.] Carew. 

SNITE:  To blow, as the nose; to snuff, as a candle. [Obs. or Scot.]  SNITHE; SNITHY Snithe, Snith"y, a. Etym: [AS. sni to cut. See Snathe.]  Sharp; piercing; cutting; -- applied to the wind. [Prov. Eng.] 

SNIVEL:  Mucus from the nose; snot. 

SNIVELER:  One who snivels, esp. one who snivels habitually. 

SNIVELY:  Running at the nose; sniveling pitiful; whining. 

SNOB:  A townsman. [Canf]  3. A journeyman shoemaker. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  4. A workman who accepts lower than the usual wages, or who refuses to strike when his fellows do; a rat; a knobstick. Those who work for lower wages during a strike are called snobs, the men who stand out being "nobs" De Quincey. 

SNOBBERY:  The quality of being snobbish; snobbishness. 

SNOBBISH:  Of or pertaining to a snob; characteristic of, or befitting, a snob; vulgarly pretentious.  -- Snob"bish*ly, adv. 

SNOBBISHNESS:  Vulgar affectation or ostentation; mean admiration of mean things; conduct or manners of a snob. 

SNOBBISM:  Snobbery. 

SNOBBY:  Snobbish. [R.] E. B. Ramsay. 

SNOBLING:  A little snob. [Jocose] Thackeray. 

SNOBOCRACY:  Snobs, collectively. [Hybrid & Recent] C. Kingsley. 

SNOD:  A fillet; a headband; a snood. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SNOD:  Trimmed; smooth; neat; trim; sly; cunning; demure. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SNOFF:  A short candle end used for igniting a fuse. Raymond. 

SNOOD:  To bind or braid up, as the hair, with a snood. [Scot.] 

SNOODED:  Wearing or having a snood. "The snooded daughter." Whittier. 

SNOOK:  To lurk; to lie in ambush. [Obs.] 

SNOOZE:  A short sleep; a nap. [Colloq.] 

SNOOZE:  To doze; to drowse; to take a short nap; to slumber. [Colloq.] 

SNORE:  To breathe with a rough, hoarse, nasal voice in sleep. 

SNORE:  A harsh nasal noise made in sleep. 

SNORER:  One who snores. 

SNORING:  The act of respiring through the open mouth so that the currents of inspired and expired air cause a vibration of the uvula and soft palate, thus giving rise to a sound more or less harsh. It is usually unvoluntary, but may be produced voluntarily. 

SNORT:  The act of snorting; the sound produced in snorting. 

SNORT:  To expel throught the nostrils with a snort; to utter with a snort. Keats. 

SNORTER:  The wheather; -- so called from its cry. [Prov. Eng.] 

SNOT:  To blow, wipe, or clear, as the nose. 

SNOTTER:  To snivel; to cry or whine. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

SNOTTER:  A rope going over a yardarm, used to bend a tripping line to, in sending down topgallant and royal yards in vessels of war; also, the short line supporting the heel of the sprit in a small boat. 

SNOTTERY:  Filth; abomination. [Obs.] To purge the snottery of our slimy time. Marston. 

SNOTTY:  Foul with snot; hence, mean; dirty.  -- Snort"ti*ly, adb.  -- Snot"ti*ness, n. 

SNOUT:  To furnish with a nozzle or point. 

SNOUTY:  Resembling a beast's snout. The nose was ugly, long, and big, Broad and snouty like a pig. Otway. 

SNOW:  A square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig only in that she has a trysail mast close abaft the mainmast, on which a large trysail is hoisted. 

SNOW:  To fall in or as snow; -- chiefly used impersonally; as, it snows; it snowed yesterday. 

SNOW:  To scatter like snow; to cover with, or as with, snow. Donne. Shak. 

SNOWBALL:  The Guelder-rose. Snowball tree (Bot.), the Guelder-rose. 

SNOWBALL:  To pelt with snowballs; to throw snowballs at. 

SNOWBALL:  To throw snowballs.  SNOW BANNER Snow banner.  A bannerlike stream of snow blown into the air from a mountain peak, often having a pinkish color and extending horizontally for several miles across the sky. 

SNOWBERRY:  A name of several shrubs with white berries; as, the Symphoricarpus racemosus of the Northern United States, and the Chiococca racemosa of Florida and tropical America. Creeping snowberry. (Bot.) See under Creeping. 

SNOWBIRD:  Affected with blindness by the brilliancy of snow.  -- Snow"-blind`ness, n.  SNOW-BOUND Snow"-bound`, a.  Enveloped in, or confined by, snow. Whittier.  SNOW-BROTH Snow"-broth`, n.  Snow and water mixed, or snow just melted; very cold liquor. Shak. 

SNOWCAP:  A very small humming bird (Microchæra albocoronata) native of New Grenada.  Note: The feathers of the top of the head are white and snining, the body blue black with a purple and bronzy luster. The name is applied also to Microchæra parvirostris of Central America, which is similar in color.  SNOW-CAPPED Snow"-capped`, a.  Having the top capped or covered with snow; as, snow-capped mountains. 

SNOWDRIFT:  A bank of drifted snow. 

SNOWDROP:  A bulbous plant (Galanthus nivalis) bearing white flowers, which often appear while the snow is on the ground. It is cultivated in gardens for its beauty. Snowdrop tree. See Silver-bell tree, under Silver, a. 

SNOWFLAKE:  See Snowbird, 1.  3. (Bot.)  A name given to several bulbous plants of the genus Leucoium (L. vernum, æstivum, etc.) resembling the snowdrop, but having all the perianth leaves of equal size. 

SNOWFLECK:  See Snowbird, 1. 

SNOWL:  The hooded merganser. [Local, U.S.] 

SNOWLESS:  Destitute of snow.  SNOWPLOW; SNOWPLOUGH Snow"plow`, Snow"plough`, n.  An implement operating like a plow, but on a larger scale, for clearing away the snow from roads, railways, etc. 

SNOWSHED:  A shelter to protect from snow, esp. a long roof over an exposed part of a railroad. 

SNOWSHOE:  A slight frame of wood three or four feet long and about one third as wide, with thongs or cords stretched across it, and having a support and holder for the foot; -- used by persons for walking on soft snow. 

SNOWSHOEING:  Traveling on snowshoes. 

SNOWSHOER:  One who travels on snowshoes; an expert in using snowshoes. W. G. Beers. 

SNOWSLIP:  A large mass or avalanche of snow which slips down the side of a mountain, etc. 

SNOWSTORM:  A storm with falling snow.  SNOW-WHITE Snow"-white`, a.  White as snow; very white. "Snow-white and rose-red" Chaucer. 

SNUB:  To sob with convulsions. [Obs.] Bailey. 

SNUB:  Having a short, flat nose, slightly turned up; as, the snub- nosed eel. Snub-nosed cachalot (Zoöl.), the pygmy sperm whale. 

SNUDGE:  To lie snug or quiet. [Obs.] Herbert. 

SNUDGE:  A miser; a sneaking fellow. [Obs.] 

SNUFF:  The part of a candle wick charred by the flame, whether burning or not. If the burning snuff happens to get out of the snuffers, you have a chance that it may fall into a dish of soup. Swift. 

SNUFF:  To crop the snuff of, as a candle; to take off the end of the snuff of. To snuff out, to extinguish by snuffing. 

SNUFFBOX:  A small box for carrying snuff about the person. 

SNUFFER:  The common porpoise. 

SNUFFERS:  An instrument for cropping and holding the snuff of a candle. 

SNUFFINGLY:  In a snuffing manner. 

SNUFFLE:  To speak through the nose; to breathe through the nose when it is obstructed, so as to make a broken sound. One clad in purple Eats, and recites some lamentable rhyme . . . Snuffling at nose, and croaking in his throat. Dryden. 

SNUFFLE:  Obstruction of the nose by mucus; nasal catarrh of infants or children. [Colloq.] 

SNUFFLER:  One who snuffles; one who uses cant. 

SNUG:  Same as Lug, n., 3. 

SNUG:  To lie close; to snuggle; to snudge; -- often with up, or together; as, a child snugs up to its mother. 

SNUGGERY:  A snug, cozy place. [Colloq.] Dickens. 

SNUGGLE:  To move one way and the other so as to get a close place; to lie close for comfort; to cuddle; to nestle. 

SNUGLY:  In a snug manner; closely; safely. 

SNUGNESS:  The quality or state of being snug. 

SNY:  An upward bend in a piece of timber; the sheer of a vessel. 

SNYING:  A curved plank, placed edgewise, to work in the bows of a vessel. R. H. Dana, Jr. 

SO:  Provided that; on condition that; in case that; if. Though all the winds of doctrine were let loose play upon the earth, so truth be in the field, we do injuriously, by licensing and prohibiting, to misdoubt her strength. Milton. 

SO:  Be as you are; stand still; stop; that will do; right as you are; -- a word used esp. to cows; also used by sailors. 

SOAKAGE:  The act of soaking, or the state of being soaked; also, the quantity that enters or issues by soaking. 

SOAKING:  Wetting thoroughly; drenching; as, a soaking rain.  -- Soak"ing*ly, adv. 

SOAKY:  Full of moisture; wet; soppy. 

SOAL:  See Sole, the fish. [Obs.] 

SOAL:  A dirty pond. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SOAM:  A chain by which a leading horse draws a plow. Knight. 

SOAP:  A substance which dissolves in water, thus forming a lather, and is used as a cleansing agent. Soap is produced by combining fats or oils with alkalies or alkaline earths, usually by boiling, and consists of salts of sodium, potassium, etc., with the fatty acids (oleic, stearic, palmitic, etc.). See the Note below, and cf. Saponification. By extension, any compound of similar composition or properties, whether used as a cleaning agent or not.  Note: In general, soaps are of two classes, hard and soft. Calcium, magnesium, lead, etc., form soaps, but they are insoluble and useless. The purifying action of soap depends upon the fact that it is decomposed by a large quantity of water into free alkali and an insoluble acid salt. The first of these takes away the fatty dirt on washing, and the latter forms the soap lather which envelops the greasy matter and thus tends to remove it. Roscoe & Schorlemmer. Castile soap, a fine-grained hard soap, white or mottled, made of olive oil and soda; -- called also Marseilles, or Venetian, soap.  -- Hard soap, any one of a great variety of soaps, of different ingredients and color, which are hard and compact. All solid soaps are of this class.  -- Lead soap, an insoluble, white, pliable soap made by saponifying an oil (olive oil) with lead oxide; -- used externally in medicine. Called also lead plaster, diachylon, etc.  -- Marine soap. See under Marine.  -- Pills of soap (Med.), pills containing soap and opium.  -- Potash soap, any soap made with potash, esp. the soft soaps, and a hard soap made from potash and castor oil.  -- Pumice soap, any hard soap charged with a gritty powder, as silica, alumina, powdered pumice, etc., which assists mechanically in the removal of dirt.  -- Resin soap, a yellow soap containing resin, -- used in bleaching.  -- Silicated soap, a cheap soap containing water glass (sodium silicate).  -- Soap bark. (Bot.) See Quillaia bark.  -- Soap bubble, a hollow iridescent globe, formed by blowing a film of soap suds from a pipe; figuratively, something attractive, but extremely unsubstantial. This soap bubble of the metaphysicians. J. C. Shairp. -- Soap cerate, a cerate formed of soap, olive oil, white wax, and the subacetate of lead, sometimes used as an application to allay inflammation.  -- Soap fat, the refuse fat of kitchens, slaughter houses, etc., used in making soap.  -- Soap liniment (Med.), a liniment containing soap, camphor, and alcohol.  -- Soap nut, the hard kernel or seed of the fruit of the soapberry tree, -- used for making beads, buttons, etc.  -- Soap plant (Bot.), one of several plants used in the place of soap, as the Chlorogalum pomeridianum, a California plant, the bulb of which, when stripped of its husk and rubbed on wet clothes, makes a thick lather, and smells not unlike new brown soap. It is called also soap apple, soap bulb, and soap weed.  -- Soap tree. (Bot.) Same as Soapberry tree.  -- Soda soap, a soap containing a sodium salt. The soda soaps are all hard soaps.  -- Soft soap, a soap of a gray or brownish yellow color, and of a slimy, jellylike consistence, made from potash or the lye from wood ashes. It is strongly alkaline and often contains glycerin, and is used in scouring wood, in cleansing linen, in dyehouses, etc. Figuratively, flattery; wheedling; blarney. [Colloq.] -- Toilet soap, hard soap for the toilet, usually colored and perfumed. 

SOAP:  Any tree of the genus Sapindus, esp. Sapindus saponaria, the fleshy part of whose fruit is used instead of soap in washing linen; -- also called soap tree. 

SOAPFISH:  Any serranoid fish of the genus Rhypticus; -- so called from the soapy feeling of its skin. 

SOAPINESS:  Quality or state of being soapy. 

SOAPROOT:  A perennial herb (Gypsophila Struthium) the root of which is used in Spain as a substitute for soap. 

SOAPSTONE:  See Steatite, and Talc. 

SOAPSUDS:  Suds made with soap. 

SOAPWORT:  A common plant (Saponaria officinalis) of the Pink family; -- so called because its bruised leaves, when agitated in water, produce a lather like that from soap. Called also Bouncing Bet. 

SOAR:  The act of soaring; upward flight. This apparent soar of the hooded falcon. Coleridge. 

SOAR:  See 3d Sore. [Obs.] 

SOAR:  See Sore, reddish brown. Soar falcon. (Zoöl.) See Sore falcon, under Sore. 

SOARING:  from Soar.  -- Soar"ing*ly, adv. 

SOAVE:  Sweet. 

SOAVEMENTE:  Sweetly. 

SOB:  To soak. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

SOB:  To sigh with a sudden heaving of the breast, or with a kind of convulsive motion; to sigh with tears, and with a convulsive drawing in of the breath. Sobbing is the same thing [as sighing], stronger. Bacon. She sighed, she sobbed, and, furious with despair. She rent her garments, and she tore her hair. Dryden. 

SOBBING:  A series of short, convulsive inspirations, the glottis being suddenly closed so that little or no air enters into the lungs. 

SOBER:  To make sober. There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain, And drinking largely sobers us again. Pope. 

SOBER:  To become sober; -- often with down. Vance gradually sobered down. Ld. Lytton. 

SOBERIZE:  To sober. [R.] Crabbe. 

SOBERLY:  In a sober manner; temperately; cooly; calmly; gravely; seriously. 

SOBERLY:  Grave; serious; solemn; sad. [Obs.] [He] looked hollow and thereto soberly. Chaucer.  SOBER-MINDED So"ber-mind`ed, a.  Having a disposition or temper habitually sober.  -- So"ber-mind`ed*ness, n. 

SOBERNESS:  The quality or state of being sober. 

SOBOLIFEROUS:  Producing soboles. See Illust. of Houseleek. 

SOBRANJE:  The unicameral national assembly of Bulgaria, elected for a term of five years by universal suffrage of adult males. 

SOBRIQUET:  An assumed name; a fanciful epithet or appellation; a nickname. [Sometimes less correctly written soubriquet.] 

SOCAGE:  A tenure of lands and tenements by a certain or determinate service; a tenure distinct from chivalry or knight's service, in which the obligations were uncertain. The service must be certain, in order to be denominated socage, as to hold by fealty and twenty shillings rent. [Written also soccage.]  Note: Socage is of two kinds; free socage, where the services are not only certain, but honorable; and villein socage, where the services, though certain, are of a baser nature. Blackstone. 

SOCAGER:  A tennant by socage; a socman.  SO-CALLED So"-called`, a.  So named; called by such a name (but perhaps called thus with doubtful propriety). 

SOCIABILITY:  The quality of being sociable; sociableness. 

SOCIABLENESS:  The quality of being sociable. 

SOCIABLY:  In a sociable manner. 

SOCIAL:  Naturally growing in groups or masses; -- said of many individual plants of the same species.  5. (Zoöl.) (a) Living in communities consisting of males, females, and neuters, as do ants and most bees. (b) Forming compound groups or colonies by budding from basal processes or stolons; as, the social ascidians. Social science, the science of all that relates to the social condition, the relations and institutions which are involved in man's existence and his well- being as a member of an organized community; sociology. It concerns itself with questions of the public health, education, labor, punishment of crime, reformation of criminals, and the like.  -- Social whale (Zoöl.), the blackfish.  -- The social evil, prostitution.  Syn.  -- Sociable; companionable; conversible; friendly; familiar; communicative; convival; festive. 

SOCIALISM:  A theory or system of social reform which contemplates a complete reconstruction of society, with a more just and equitable distribution of property and labor. In popular usage, the term is often employed to indicate any lawless, revolutionary social scheme. See Communism, Fourierism, Saint-Simonianism, forms of socialism. [Socialism] was first applied in England to Owen's theory of social reconstruction, and in France to those also of St. Simon and Fourier . . . The word, however, is used with a great variety of meaning, . . . even by economists and learned critics. The general tendency is to regard as socialistic any interference undertaken by society on behalf of the poor, . . . radical social reform which disturbs the present system of private property . . . The tendency of the present socialism is more and more to ally itself with the most advanced democracy. Encyc. Brit. We certainly want a true history of socialism, meaning by that a history of every systematic attempt to provide a new social existence for the mass of the workers. F. Harrison. 

SOCIALIST:  One who advocates or practices the doctrines of socialism.  SOCIALIST; SOCIALISTIC So"cial*ist, So`cial*is"tic, a.  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, socialism. 

SOCIALITY:  The quality of being social; socialness. 

SOCIALLY:  In a social manner; sociably. 

SOCIALNESS:  The quality or state of being social. 

SOCIATE:  Associated. [Obs.] 

SOCIATE:  An associate. [Obs.] As for you, Dr. Reynolds, and your sociates. Fuller. 

SOCIATE:  To associate. [Obs.] Shelford. 

SOCIETARIAN:  Of or pertaining to society; social. The all-sweeping besom of societarian reformation. Lamb. 

SOCIETARY:  Societarian. [R.] 

SOCINIAN:  Of or pertaining to Socinus, or the Socinians. 

SOCINIAN:  One of the followers of Socinus; a believer in Socinianism. 

SOCINIANISM:  The tenets or doctrines of Faustus Socinus, an Italian theologian of the sixteenth century, who denied the Trinity, the deity of Christ, the personality of the Devil, the native and total depravity of man, the vicarious atonement, and the eternity of future punishment. His theory was, that Christ was a man divinely commissioned, who had no existence before he was conceived by the Virgin Mary; that human sin was the imitation of Adam's sin, and that human salvation was the imitation and adoption of Christ's virtue; that the Bible was to be interpreted by human reason; and that its language was metaphorical, and not to be taken literally. 

SOCINIANIZE:  To cause to conform to Socinianism; to regulate by, or imbue with, the principles of Socinianism.  SOCIOLOGIC; SOCIOLOGICAL So`ci*o*log"ic, So`ci*o*log"ic*al a.  Of or pertaining to sociology, or social science.  -- So`ci*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SOCIOLOGIST:  One who treats of, or devotes himself to, the study of sociology. J. S. Mill. 

SOCIOLOGY:  That branch of philosophy which treats of the constitution, phenomena, and development of human society; social science. H. Spencer. 

SOCK:  A plowshare. Edin. Encyc. 

SOCKDOLAGER:  A combination of two hooks which close upon each other, by means of a spring, as soon as the fish bites. [U. S.] 

SOCKETED:  Having a socket. Dawkins. 

SOCKLESS:  Destitute of socks or shoes. B. & Fl. 

SOCKY:  Wet; soaky. [Prov. Eng.] 

SOCMAN:  One who holds lands or tenements by socage; a socager. Cowell. 

SOCMANRY:  Tenure by socage. 

SOCOME:  A custom of tenants to grind corn at the lord's mill. Cowell. 

SOCOTRINE:  Of or pertaining to Socotra, an island in the Indian Ocean, on the east coast of Africa.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Socotra.  SOCRATIC; SOCRATICAL So*crat"ic, So*crat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Socraticus, Gr.  Of or pertaining to Socrates, the Grecian sage and teacher. (b. c. 469-399), or to his manner of teaching and philosophizing.  Note: The Socratic method of reasoning and instruction was by a series of questions leading the one to whom they were addressed to perceive and admit what was true or false in doctrine, or right or wrong in conduct. 

SOCRATICALLY:  In the Socratic method. 

SOCRATISM:  The philosophy or the method of Socrates. 

SOCRATIST:  A disciple or follower of Socrates. 

SOD:  The rock dove. [Prov. Eng.] 

SOD:  imp. of Seethe. 

SOD:  That stratum of the surface of the soil which is filled with the roots of grass, or any portion of that surface; turf; sward. She there shall dress a sweeter sod Than Fancy's feet have ever trod. Collins. 

SOD:  To cover with sod; to turf. 

SODAIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, soda. "Sodaic powder." Ure. 

SODALITE:  A mineral of a white to blue or gray color, occuring commonly in dodecahedrons, also massive. It is a silicate of alumina and soda with some chlorine. 

SODALITY:  Specifically, a lay association for devotion or for charitable purposes. 

SODAMIDE:  A greenish or reddish crystalline substance, NaNH2, obtained by passing ammonia over heated sodium. 

SODDEN:  Boiled; seethed; also, soaked; heavy with moisture; saturated; as, sodden beef; sodden bread; sodden fields. 

SODDEN:  To be seethed; to become sodden. 

SODDEN:  To soak; to make heavy with water.  SODDEN-WITTED Sod"den-wit`ted, a.  Heavy; dull. Shak. 

SODDY:  Consisting of sod; covered with sod; turfy. Cotgrave. 

SODER:  See Solder. 

SODGER:  Var. of Soldier. [Dial. or Slang] 

SODIC:  Of or pertaining to sodium; containing sodium.  SODIO- So"di*o-. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of sodium or one of its compounds. 

SODIUM:  A common metallic element of the alkali group, in nature always occuring combined, as in common salt, in albite, etc. It is isolated as a soft, waxy, white, unstable metal, so readily oxidized that it combines violently with water, and to be preserved must be kept under petroleum or some similar liquid. Sodium is used combined in many salts, in the free state as a reducer, and as a means of obtaining other metals (as magnesium and aluminium) is an important commercial product. Symbol Na (Natrium). Atomic weight 23. Specific gravity 0.97. Sodium amalgam, an alloy of sodium and mercury, usually produced as a gray metallic crystalline substance, which is used as a reducing agent, and otherwise.  -- Sodium bicarbonate, a white crystalline substance, HNaCO3, with a slight alkaline taste resembling that of sodium carbonate. It is found in many mineral springs and also produced artificially,. It is used in cookery, in baking powders, and as a source of carbonic acid gas (carbon dioxide) for soda water. Called also cooking soda, saleratus, and technically, acid sodium carbonate, primary sodium carbonate, sodium dicarbonate, etc.  -- Sodium carbonate, a white crystalline substance, Na2CO3.10H2O, having a cooling alkaline taste, found in the ashes of many plants, and produced artifically in large quantities from common salt. It is used in making soap, glass, paper, etc., and as alkaline agent in many chemical industries. Called also sal soda, washing soda, or soda. Cf. Sodium bicarbonate, above and Trona. Sodium chloride, common, or table, salt, NaCl.  -- Sodium hydroxide, a white opaque brittle solid, NaOH, having a fibrous structure, produced by the action of quicklime, or of calcium hydrate (milk of lime), on sodium carbonate. It is a strong alkali, and is used in the manufacture of soap, in making wood pulp for paper, etc. Called also sodium hydrate, and caustic soda. By extension, a solution of sodium hydroxide.  SODIUM SULPHATE So"di*um sul"phate.  A salt well known as a catharic under the name of Glauber's salt, which term is properly applied to the hydrate, Na2SO4.10H2O. 

SODOMITICAL:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, sodomy.  -- Sod`om*it"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SODOMY:  Carnal copulation in a manner against nature; buggery. Gen. xix. 5. 

SOE:  A large wooden vessel for holding water; a cowl. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Dr. H. More. 

SOEVER:  A word compounded of so and ever, used in composition with who, what, where, when, how, etc., and indicating any out of all possible or supposable persons, things, places, times, ways, etc. It is sometimes used separate from the pronoun or adverb. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required. Luke xii. 48. What great thing soever a man proposed to do in his life, he should think of achieving it by fifty. Sir W. Temple. 

SOFA:  A long seat, usually with a cushioned bottom, back, and ends; - - much used as a comfortable piece of furniture. Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round. Cowper. Sofa bed, a sofa so contrived that it may be extended to form a bed; -- called also sofa bedstead. 

SOFFIT:  The under side of the subordinate parts and members of buildings, such as staircases, entablatures, archways, cornices, or the like. See Illust. of Lintel. 

SOFI:  Same as Sufi. 

SOFISM:  Same as Sufism. 

SOFT:  A soft or foolish person; an idiot. [Colloq.] G. Eliot. 

SOFT:  Softly; without roughness or harshness; gently; quietly. Chaucer. A knight soft riding toward them. Spenser. 

SOFT:  Be quiet; hold; stop; not so fast. Soft, you; a word or two before you go. Shak. 

SOFTA:  Any one attached to a Mohammedan mosque, esp. a student of the higher branches of theology in a mosque school. [Written also sophta.] 

SOFTEN:  To make soft or more soft. Specifically: -- (a) To render less hard; -- said of matter. Their arrow's point they soften in the flame. Gay.  (b) To mollify; to make less fierce or intractable. Diffidence conciliates the proud, and softens the severe. Rambler.  (c) To palliate; to represent as less enormous; as, to soften a fault. (d) To compose; to mitigate; to assuage. Music can soften pain to ease. Pope. (e) To make calm and placid. All that cheers or softens life. Pope.  (f) To make less harsh, less rude, less offensive, or less violent, or to render of an opposite quality. He bore his great commision in his look, But tempered awe, and softened all he spoke. Dryden.  (g) To make less glaring; to tone down; as, to soften the coloring of a picture. (h) To make tender; to make effeminate; to enervate; as, troops softened by luxury. (i) To make less harsh or grating, or of a quality the opposite; as, to soften the voice. 

SOFTEN:  To become soft or softened, or less rude, harsh, severe, or obdurate. 

SOFTENER:  One who, or that which, softens. [Written also, less properly, softner.] 

SOFTENING:  from Soften, v. Softening of the brain, or Cerebral softening (Med.), a localized softening of the brain substance, due to hemorrhage or inflammation. Three varieties, distinguished by their color and representing different stages of the morbid process, are known respectively as red, yellow, and white, softening.  SOFT-FINNED Soft"-finned`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the fin rays cartilaginous or flexible; without spines; -- said of certain fishes.  SOFT-HEADED Soft"-head`ed, a.  Weak in intellect.  SOFT-HEARTED Soft"-heart`ed, a.  Having softness or tenderness of heart; susceptible of pity or other kindly affection; gentle; meek.  -- Soft"-heart`ed*ness, n. 

SOFTISH:  Somewhat soft. De Witt Clinton. 

SOFTLING:  A soft, effeminate person; a voluptuary. [R.] Bp. Woolton. . 

SOFTLY:  In a soft manner. 

SOFTNER:  See Softener. 

SOFTNESS:  The quality or state of being soft; -- opposed to Ant: hardness, and used in the various specific senses of the adjective.  SOFT-SHELL; SOFT-SHELLED Soft"-shell`, Soft"-shelled`, a.  Having a soft or fragile shell. Soft-shell clam (Zoöl.), the long clam. See Mya.  -- Soft-shelled crab. (Zoöl.) See the Note under Crab, 1.  -- Soft-shelled turtle. (Zoöl.) Same as Soft tortoise, under Soft.  SOFT-SPOKEN Soft"-spo`ken, a.  Speaking softly; having a mild or gentle voice; hence, mild; affable.  SOFT STEEL Soft steel.  Steel low in carbon; mild steel; ingot iron. 

SOGER:  Var. of Soldier. [Dial. or Slang]  R. H. Dana, Jr. 

SOGGINESS:  The quality or state of being soggy; soddenness; wetness. 

SOGGY:  Filled with water; soft with moisture; sodden; soaked; wet; as, soggy land or timber. 

SOHO:  Ho; -- a word used in calling from a distant place; a sportsman's halloo. Shak.  SOI-DISANT Soi`-di`sant", a. Etym: [F.]  Calling himself; self-styled; pretended; would-be. 

SOIL:  To feed, as cattle or horses, in the barn or an inclosure, with fresh grass or green food cut for them, instead of sending them out to pasture; hence (such food having the effect of purging them), to purge by feeding on green food; as, to soil a horse. 

SOIL:  To enrich with soil or muck; to manure. Men . . . soil their ground, not that they love the dirt, but that they expect a crop. South. 

SOIL:  A marshy or miry place to which a hunted boar resorts for refuge; hence, a wet place, stream, or tract of water, sought for by other game, as deer. As deer, being stuck, fly through many soils, Yet still the shaft sticks fast. Marston. To take soil, to run into the mire or water; hence, to take refuge or shelter. O, sir, have you taken soil here It is well a man may reach you after three hours' running. B. Jonson. 

SOIL:  To become soiled; as, light colors soil sooner than dark ones. 

SOIL:  That which soils or pollutes; a soiled place; spot; stain. A lady's honor . . . will not bear a soil. Dryden. 

SOILINESS:  Stain; foulness. [R.] Bacon. 

SOILLESS:  Destitute of soil or mold.  SOIL PIPE Soil pipe.  A pipe or drain for carrying off night soil. 

SOILURE:  Stain; pollution. Shak. Then fearing rust or soilure, fashioned for it A case of silk. Tennyson. 

SOILY:  Dirty; soiled. [Obs.] Fuller. 

SOIREE:  An evening party; -- distinguished from levee, and matinée. 

SOJA:  An Asiatic leguminous herb (Glycine Soja) the seeds of which are used in preparing the sauce called soy. 

SOJER:  Var. of Soldier. [Dial. or Slang] 

SOJOURN:  To dwell for a time; to dwell or live in a place as a temporary resident or as a stranger, not considering the place as a permanent habitation; to delay; to tarry. Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there. Gen. xii. 30. Home he goeth, he might not longer sojourn. Chaucer. The soldiers first assembled at Newcastle, and there sojourned three days. Hayward. 

SOJOURN:  A temporary residence, as that of a traveler in a foreign land. Though long detained In that obscure sojourn. Milton. 

SOJOURNER:  One who sojourns. We are strangers before thee, and sojourners. 1. Chron. xxix. 15. 

SOJOURNING:  The act or state of one who sojourns. 

SOJOURNMENT:  Temporary residence, as that of a stranger or a traveler. [R.] 

SOKE:  See Soc.  2. One of the small territorial divisions into which Lincolnshire, England, is divided. 

SOKEMAN:  See Socman. 

SOKEMANRY:  See Socmanry. 

SOKO:  An African anthropoid ape, supposed to be a variety of the chimpanzee. 

SOL:  Gold; -- so called from its brilliancy, color, and value. Chaucer. 

SOLA:  See Solus. 

SOLA:  A leguminous plant (Æschynomene aspera) growing in moist places in Southern India and the East Indies. Its pithlike stem is used for making hats, swimming-jackets, etc. [Written also solah, shola.] 

SOLACE:  To take comfort; to be cheered. Shak. 

SOLACEMENT:  The act of solacing, or the state of being solaced; also, that which solaces. [R.] 

SOLACIOUS:  Affording solace; as, a solacious voice. [Obs.] Bale. 

SOLANACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to plants of the natural order Solanaceæ, of which the nightshade (Solanum) is the type. The order includes also the tobacco, ground cherry, tomato, eggplant, red pepper, and many more. 

SOLAND:  A solan goose. 

SOLANDER:  See Sallenders.  SOLAN GOOSE So"lan goose`. Etym: [Icel. s; akin to Norw. sula.] (Zoöl.)  The common gannet. 

SOLANIA:  Solanine. 

SOLANICINE:  An alkaloid produced by the action of hydrochloric acid on solanidine, as a tasteless yellow crystalline substance. 

SOLANIDINE:  An alkaloid produced by the decomposition of solanine, as a white crystalline substance having a harsh bitter taste. 

SOLANINE:  A poisonous alkaloid glucoside extracted from the berries of common nightshade (Solanum nigrum), and of bittersweet, and from potato sprouts, as a white crystalline substance having an acrid, burning taste; -- called also solonia, and solanina. 

SOLANO:  A hot, oppressive wind which sometimes blows in the Mediterranean, particularly on the eastern coast of Spain. 

SOLANOID:  Resembling a potato; -- said of a kind of cancer. 

SOLANUM:  A genus of plants comprehending the potato (S. tuberosum), the eggplant (S. melongena, and several hundred other species; nightshade. 

SOLAR:  A loft or upper chamber; a garret room. [Obs.] [Written also soler, solere, sollar.] Oxf. Gloss. 

SOLAR:  Born under the predominant influence of the sun. [Obs.] And proud beside, as solar people are. Dryden.  3. Measured by the progress or revolution of the sun in the ecliptic; as, the solar year.  4. Produced by the action of the sun, or peculiarly affected by its influence. They denominate some herbs solar, and some lunar. Bacon. Solar cycle. See under Cycle.  -- Solar day. See Day, 2.  -- Solar engine, an engine in which the energy of solar heat is used to produce motion, as in evaporating water for a steam engine, or expanding air for an air engine.  -- Solar flowers (Bot.), flowers which open and shut daily at certain hours.  -- Solar lamp, an argand lamp.  -- Solar microscope, a microscope consisting essentially, first, of a mirror for reflecting a beam of sunlight through the tube, which sometimes is fixed in a window shutter; secondly, of a condenser, or large lens, for converging the beam upon the object; and, thirdly, of a small lens, or magnifier, for throwing an enlarged image of the object at its focus upon a screen in a dark room or in a darkened box.  -- Solar month. See under Month.  -- Solar oil, a paraffin oil used an illuminant and lubricant.  -- Solar phosphori (Physics), certain substances, as the diamond, siulphide of barium (Bolognese or Bologna phosphorus), calcium sulphide, etc., which become phosphorescent, and shine in the dark, after exposure to sunlight or other intense light.  -- Solar plexus (Anat.), a nervous plexus situated in the dorsal and anterior part of the abdomen, consisting of several sympathetic ganglia with connecting and radiating nerve fibers; -- so called in allusion to the radiating nerve fibers.  -- Solar spots. See Sun spots, under Sun.  -- Solar system (Astron.), the sun, with the group of celestial bodies which, held by its attraction, revolve round it. The system comprises the major planets, with their satellites; the minor planets, or asteroids, and the comets; also, the meteorids, the matter that furnishes the zodiacal light, and the rings of Saturn. The satellites that revolve about the major planets are twenty-two in number, of which the Earth has one (see Moon.), Mars two, Jupiter five, Saturn nine, Uranus four, and Neptune one. The asteroids, between Mars and Jupiter, thus far discovered (1900), number about five hundred, the first four of which were found near the beginning of the century, and are called Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vesta.  Note: The principal elements of the major planets, and of the comets seen at more than one perihelion passage, are exhibited in the following tables: -- I.  -- Major Planets. Symbol.Name.Mean distance -- that of the Earth being unity.Period in days.Eccentricity.Inclination of orbit.Diameter in miles II.  -- Periodic Comets. Name.Greatest distance from sun.Least distance from sun.Inclination of orbit.Perihelion passage. º min 54 Encke's3.314.100.34212 541885.2 -- Solar telegraph, telegraph for signaling by flashes of reflected sunlight.  -- Solar time. See Apparent time, under Time. 

SOLARIUM:  Any one of several species of handsome marine spiral shells of the genus Solarium and allied genera. The shell is conical, and usually has a large, deep umbilicus exposing the upper whorls. Called also perspective shell. 

SOLARIZATION:  Injury of a photographic picture caused by exposing it for too long a time to the sun's light in the camera; burning; excessive insolation. 

SOLARIZE:  To injure by too long exposure to the light of the sun in the camera; to burn. 

SOLARIZE:  To become injured by undue or too long exposure to the sun's rays in the camera.  SOLAR MYTH So"lar myth.  A myth which essentially consists of allegory based upon ideas as to the sun's course, motion, influence, or the like.  SOLAR PARALLAX Solar parallax.  The parallax of the sun, that is, the angle subtended at the sun by the semidiameter of the earth. It is 8."80, and is the fundamental datum. 

SOLARY:  Solar. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SOLAS:  Solace. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOLATIUM:  Anything which alleviates or compensates for suffering or loss; a compensation; esp., an additional allowance, as for injured feelings. 

SOLD:  imp. & p. p. of Sell. 

SOLD:  Solary; military pay. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SOLDAN:  A sultan. [Obs.] Milton. 

SOLDANEL:  A plant of the genus Soldanella, low Alpine herbs of the Primrose family. 

SOLDANRIE:  The country ruled by a soldan, or sultan. [Poet.] Sir W. Scott. 

SOLDER:  A metal or metallic alloy used when melted for uniting adjacent metallic edges or surfaces; a metallic coment. Hence, anything which unites or cements. Hard solder, a solder which fuses only at a red heat, as one composed of zinc and copper, or silver and copper, etc.  -- Soft solder, a solder fusible at comparatively low temperatures; as, plumbers' solder, consisting of two parts lead and one part tin, is a soft solder. 

SOLDERER:  One who solders. 

SOLDERING:  from Solder, v. t. Soldering iron, Soldering tool, an instrument for soldering, consisting of a bit or bolt of copper having a pointed or wedge-shaped end, and furnished with a handle. 

SOLDIER:  The red or cuckoo gurnard (Trigla pini.) [Prov. Eng.]  5. (Zoöl.)  One of the asexual polymorphic forms of white ants, or termites, in which the head and jaws are very large and strong. The soldiers serve to defend the nest. See Termite. Soldier beetle (Zoöl.), an American carabid beetle (Chauliognathus Americanus) whose larva feeds upon other insects, such as the plum curculio.  -- Soldier bug (Zoöl.), any hemipterous insect of the genus Podisus and allied genera, as the spined soldier bug (Podius spinosus). These bugs suck the blood of other insects.  -- Soldier crab (Zoöl.) (a) The hermit crab. (b) The fiddler crab.  -- Soldier fish (Zoöl.), a bright-colored etheostomoid fish (Etheostoma coeruleum) found in the Mississippi River; -- called also blue darter, and rainbow darter.  -- Soldier fly (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small dipterous flies of the genus Stratyomys and allied genera. They are often bright green, with a metallic luster, and are ornamented on the sides of the back with markings of yellow, like epaulets or shoulder straps.  -- Soldier moth (Zoöl.), a large geometrid moth (Euschema militaris), having the wings bright yellow with bluish black lines and spots.  -- Soldier orchis (Bot.), a kind of orchis (Orchis militaris). 

SOLDIERESS:  A female soldier. [Obs.] 

SOLDIERLIKE:  Like a soldier; soldierly. 

SOLDIERLY:  Like or becoming a real soldier; brave; martial; heroic; honorable; soldierlike. "Soldierly discipline." Sir P. Sidney. 

SOLDIERSHIP:  Military qualities or state; martial skill; behavior becoming a soldier. [R.] Shak. 

SOLDIERWOOD:  A showy leguminous plant (Calliandra purpurea) of the West Indies. The flowers have long tassels of purple stamens. 

SOLDO:  A small Italian coin worth a sou or a cent; the twentieth part of a lira. 

SOLE:  The bottom of the body of a plow; -- called also slade; also, the bottom of a furrow. (b) (Far.) The horny substance under a horse's foot, which protects the more tender parts. (c) (Fort.) The bottom of an embrasure. (d) (Naut.) A piece of timber attached to the lower part of the rudder, to make it even with the false keel. Totten. (e) (Mining) The seat or bottom of a mine; -- applied to horizontal veins or lodes. Sole leather, thick, strong, used for making the soles of boots and shoes, and for other purposes. 

SOLE:  To furnish with a sole; as, to sole a shoe. 

SOLE:  Single; unmarried; as, a feme sole. Corporation sole. See the Note under Corporation.  Syn.  -- Single; individual; only; alone; solitary. 

SOLECIST:  One who commits a solecism. Blackwall. 

SOLECISTIC:  Solecistical. 

SOLECISTICAL:  Pertaining to, or involving, a solecism; incorrect. "He thought it made the language solecistical and absurd." Blackwall. 

SOLECISTICALLY:  In a solecistic manner. 

SOLECIZE:  To commit a solecism. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

SOLELY:  Singly; alone; only; without another; as, to rest a cause solely one argument; to rely solelyn one's own strength. 

SOLEMN:  Made in form; ceremonious; as, solemn war; conforming with all legal requirements; as, probate in solemn form. Burrill. Jarman. Greenleaf. Solemn League and Covenant. See Covenant, 2.  Syn.  -- Grave; formal; ritual; ceremonial; sober; serious; reverential; devotional; devout. See Grave. 

SOLEMNESS:  Solemnness. Some think he wanted solemnes. Sir H. Wotton. 

SOLEMNITY:  A solemn or formal observance; proceeding according to due form; the formality which is necessary to render a thing done valid. 

SOLEMNIZATE:  To solemnize; as, to solemnizate matrimony. [R.] Bp. Burnet. 

SOLEMNIZATION:  The act of solemnizing; celebration; as, the solemnization of a marriage. 

SOLEMNIZE:  Solemnization. [R.] Though spoused, yet wanting wedlock's solemnize. Spenser. 

SOLEMNIZER:  One who solemnizes. 

SOLEMNLY:  In a solemn manner; with gravity; seriously; formally. There in deaf murmurs solemnly are wise. Dryden. I do solemnly assure the reader. Swift. 

SOLEMNNESS:  The state or quality of being solemn; solemnity; impressiveness; gravity; as, the solemnness of public worship. [Written also solemness.] 

SOLEMPNE:  Solemn; grand; stately; splendid; magnificent. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOLEN:  A cradle, as for a broken limb. See Cradle, 6.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any marine bivalve mollusk belonging to Solen or allied genera of the family Solenidæ; a razor shell. 

SOLENACEAN:  Any species of marine bivalve shells belonging to the family Solenidæ. 

SOLENACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to the solens or family Solenidæ. 

SOLENESS:  The state of being sole, or alone; singleness. [R.] Chesterfield. 

SOLENETTE:  A small European sole (Solea minuta). 

SOLENOCONCHA:  Same as Scaphopoda. 

SOLENODON:  Either one of two species of singular West Indian insectivores, allied to the tenrec. One species (Solendon paradoxus), native of St. Domingo, is called also agouta; the other (S. Cubanus), found in Cuba, is called almique. 

SOLENOGASTRA:  An order of lowly organized Mollusca belonging to the Isopleura. A narrow groove takes the place of the foot of other gastropods. 

SOLENOGLYPH:  Pertaining to the Selenoglypha. See Ophidia.  -- n.  One of the Selenoglypha. 

SOLENOGLYPHA:  A suborder of serpents including those which have tubular erectile fangs, as the viper and rattlesnake. See Fang. 

SOLENOID:  An electrodynamic spiral having the conjuctive wire turned back along its axis, so as to neutralize that component of the effect of the current which is due to the length of the spiral, and reduce the whole effect to that of a series of equal and parallel circular currents. When traversed by a current the solenoid exhibits polarity and attraction or repulsion, like a magnet. 

SOLENOSTOMI:  A tribe of lophobranch fishes having a tubular snout. The female carries the eggs in a ventral pouch. 

SOLEPLATE:  A loft or garret. See Solar, n. Sir W. Scott. 

SOLERT:  Skillful; clever; crafty. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

SOLERTIOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being solert. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket. 

SOLESHIP:  The state of being sole, or alone; soleness. [R.] Sir E. Dering.  SOLE TRADER Sole trader.  A feme sole trader.  SOL-FA Sol`-fa", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sol-faed;p. pr. & vb. n. Sol-faing.] Etym: [It. solfa the gamut, from the syllables fa, sol.]  To sing the notes of the gamut, ascending or descending; as, do or ut, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si, do, or the same in reverse order. Yet can I neither solfe ne sing. Piers Plowman.  SOL-FA Sol"-fa", n.  The gamut, or musical scale. See Tonic sol-fa, under Tonic, n. 

SOLFANARIA:  A sulphur mine. 

SOLFATARA:  A volcanic area or vent which yields only sulphur vapors, steam, and the like. It represents the stages of the volcanic activity. 

SOLFEGGIARE:  To sol-fa. See Sol-fa, v. i. 

SOLFEGGIO:  The system of arranging the scale by the names do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si, by which singing is taught; a singing exercise upon these syllables. 

SOLFERINO:  A brilliant deep pink color with a purplish tinge, one of the dyes derived from aniline; -- so called from Solferino in Italy, where a battle was fought about the time of its discovery. 

SOLI:  pl. of Solo. 

SOLICITANT:  One who solicits. 

SOLICITATE:  Solicitous. [Obs.] Eden. 

SOLICITOR:  The second law officer in the government of Great Britain; also, a similar officer under the United States government, who is associated with the attorney-general; also, the chief law officer of some of the States. 

SOLICITOUS:  Disposed to solicit; eager to obtain something desirable, or to avoid anything evil; concerned; anxious; careful. "Solicitous of my reputation." Dryden. "He was solicitous for his advice." Calerendon. Enjoy the present, whatsoever it be, and be not solicitous about the future. Jer. Taylor. The colonel had been intent upon other things, and not enough solicitous to finish the fortifications. Clarendon. -- So*lic"it*ous*ly, adv.  -- So*lic"it*ous*ness, n. 

SOLICITRESS:  A woman who solicits. 

SOLICITUDE:  The state of being solicitous; uneasiness of mind occasioned by fear of evil or desire good; anxiety. The many cares and great labors of worldly men, their solicitude and outward shows. Sir W. Raleigh. The mother looked at her with fond solicitude. G. W. Cable.  Syn.  -- Carefulness; concern; anxiety. See Care. 

SOLID:  Having all the geometrical dimensions; cubic; as, a solid foot contains 1,728 solid inches.  Note: In this sense, cubics now generally used.  4. Firm; compact; strong; stable; unyielding; as, a solid pier; a solid pile; a solid wall.  5. Applied to a compound word whose parts are closely united and form an unbroken word; -- opposed to hyphened.  6. Fig.: Worthy of credit, trust, or esteem; substantial, as opposed to frivolous or fallacious; weighty; firm; strong; valid; just; genuine. The solid purpose of a sincere and virtuous answer. Milton. These, wanting wit, affect gravity, and go by the name of solid men. Dryden. The genius of the Italians wrought by solid toil what the myth-making imagination of the Germans had projected in a poem. J. A. Symonds.  7. Sound; not weakly; as, a solid constitution of body. I. Watts.  8. (Bot.)  Of a fleshy, uniform, undivided substance, as a bulb or root; not spongy or hollow within, as a stem.  9. (Metaph.)  Impenetrable; resisting or excluding any other material particle or atom from any given portion of space; -- applied to the supposed ultimate particles of matter.  10. (Print.)  Not having the lines separated by leads; not open.  11. United; without division; unanimous; as, the delegation is solid for a candidate. [Polit. Cant. U.S.] Solid angle. (Geom.) See under Angle.  -- Solid color, an even color; one not shaded or variegated.  -- Solid green. See Emerald green (a), under Green.  -- Solid measure (Arith.), a measure for volumes, in which the units are each a cube of fixed linear magnitude, as a cubic foot, yard, or the like; thus, a foot, in solid measure, or a solid foot, contains 1,728 solid inches.  -- Solid newel (Arch.), a newel into which the ends of winding stairs are built, in distinction from a hollow newel. See under Hollow, a.  -- Solid problem (Geom.), a problem which can be construed geometrically, only by the intersection of a circle and a conic section or of two conic sections. Hutton.  -- Solid square (Mil.), a square body or troops in which the ranks and files are equal.  Syn.  -- Hard; firm; compact; strong; substantial; stable; sound; real; valid; true; just; weighty; profound; grave; important.  -- Solid, Hard. These words both relate to the internal constitution of bodies; but hardnotes a more impenetrable nature or a firmer adherence of the component parts than solid. Hard is opposed to soft, and solid to fluid, liquid, open, or hollow. Wood is usually solid; but some kinds of wood are hard, and others are soft. Repose you there; while I [return] to this hard house, More harder than the stones whereof 't is raised. Shak. I hear his thundering voice resound, And trampling feet than shake the solid ground. Dryden. 

SOLID:  A magnitude which has length, breadth, and thickness; a part of space bounded on all sides. Solid of revolution. (Geom.) See Revolution, n., 5. 

SOLIDAGO:  A genus of yellow-flowered composite perennial herbs; golden- rod. 

SOLIDARE:  A small piece of money. [Obs.] Shak. 

SOLIDARITY:  An entire union or consolidation of interests and responsibilities; fellowship; community. Solidarity [a word which we owe to the French Communists], signifies a fellowship in gain and loss, in honor and dishonor, in victory and defeat, a being, so to speak, all in the same boat. Trench. The solidarity . . . of Breton and Welsh poetry. M. Arnold. 

SOLIDARY:  Having community of interests and responsibilities. Men are solidary, or copartners; and not isolated. M. Arnold. 

SOLIDATE:  To make solid or firm. [Obs.] Cowley.  SOLID-DRAWN Sol"id-drawn`, a.  Drawn out from a heated solid bar, as by a process of spiral rolling which first hollows the bar and then expands the cavity by forcing the bar over a pointed mandrel fixed in front of the rolls; - - said of a weldless tube. 

SOLIDIFIABLE:  Capable of being solidified. 

SOLIDIFICATION:  Act of solidifying, or state of being solidified. 

SOLIDIFY:  To make solid or compact. Every machine is a solidified mechanical theorem. H. Spencer. 

SOLIDIFY:  To become solid; to harden. 

SOLIDISM:  The doctrine that refers all diseases to morbid changes of the solid parts of the body. It rests on the view that the solids alone are endowed with vital properties, and can receive the impression of agents tending to produce disease. 

SOLIDIST:  An advocate of, or believer in, solidism. Dunglison. 

SOLIDITY:  The solid contents of a body; volume; amount of inclosed space.  Syn.  -- Firmness; solidness; hardness; density; compactness; strength; soundness; validity; certainty. 

SOLIDLY:  In a solid manner; densely; compactly; firmly; truly. 

SOLIDUNGULA:  A tribe of ungulates which includes the horse, ass, and related species, constituting the family Equidæ. 

SOLIDUNGULAR:  Solipedous. 

SOLIDUNGULATE:  Same as Soliped. 

SOLIDUNGULOUS:  Solipedous. 

SOLIFIDIAN:  One who maintains that faith alone, without works, is sufficient for justification; -- opposed to nullifidian. Hammond. 

SOLIFIDIAN:  Holding the tenets of Solifidians; of or pertaining to the solifidians. 

SOLIFIDIANISM:  The state of Solifidians. 

SOLIFORM:  Like the sun in form, appearance, or nature; resembling the sun. [R.] "Soliform things." Cudworth. 

SOLIFUGAE:  A division of arachnids having large, powerful fangs and a segmented abdomen; -- called also Solpugidea, and Solpugides. 

SOLILOQUIZE:  To utter a soliloquy; to talk to one's self. 

SOLIPED:  A mammal having a single hoof on each foot, as the horses and asses; a solidungulate. [Written also solipede.] The solipeds, or firm-hoofed animals, as horses, asses, and mules, etc., -- they are, also, in mighty number. Sir T. Browne. 

SOLIPEDOUS:  Having single hoofs. 

SOLIPSISM:  Egotism. Krauth-Fleming.  2. (Metaph.)  Egoism. Krauth-Fleming. 

SOLISEQUIOUS:  Following the course of the sun; as, solisequious plants. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

SOLITARIAN:  A hermit; a solitary. [Obs.] Sir R. Twisden. 

SOLITARIETY:  The state of being solitary; solitariness. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

SOLITARILY:  In a solitary manner; in solitude; alone. Mic. vii. 14. 

SOLITARINESS:  Condition of being solitary. 

SOLITARY:  Not associated with others of the same kind. Solitary ant (Zoöl.), any solitary hymenopterous insect of the family Mutillidæ. The female of these insects is destitute of wings and has a powerful sting. The male is winged and resembles a wasp. Called also spider ant.  -- Solitary bee (Zoöl.), any species of bee which does not form communities.  -- Solitary sandpiper (Zoöl.), an American tattler (Totanus solitarius).  -- Solitary snipe (Zoöl.), the great snipe. [Prov. Eng.] -- Solitary thrush (Zoöl.) the starling. [Prov. Eng.] 

SOLITARY:  One who lives alone, or in solitude; an anchoret; a hermit; a recluse. 

SOLIVAGANT:  Wandering alone. [R.] T. Grander. 

SOLIVAGOUS:  Solivagant. 

SOLLAR:  A platform in a shaft, especially one of those between the series of ladders in a shaft. 

SOLLAR:  To cover, or provide with, a sollar. 

SOLLEIN:  Sullen; sad. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SOLLERET:  A flexible steel shoe (or one of the plates forming such a shoe), worn with mediæval armor. 

SOLMIZATION:  The act of sol-faing. [Written also solmisation.]  Note: This art was practiced by the Greeks; but six of the seven syllables now in use are generally attributed to Guido d' Arezzo, an Italian monk of the eleventh century, who is said to have taken them from the first syllables of the first six lines of the following stanza of a monkish hymn to St. John the Baptist. -- Ut queant laxis Resonare fibris Mira gestorum Famuli tuorum Solve polluti Labii reatum, Sancte Joannes. Professor Skeat says the name of the seventh note, si, was also formed by him [Guido] from the initials of the two words of the last line; but this is disputed, Littré attributing the first use of it to Anselm of Flanders long afterwards. The syllable do is often substituted for ut. 

SOLO:  A tune, air, strain, or a whole piece, played by a single person on an instrument, or sung by a single voice. 

SOLOIST:  One who sings or plays a solo. 

SOLOMON:  One of the kings of Israel, noted for his superior wisdom and magnificent reign; hence, a very wise man.  -- Sol`o*mon"ic, a. Solomon's seal (Bot.), a perennial liliaceous plant of the genus Polygonatum, having simple erect or curving stems rising from thick and knotted rootstocks, and with white or greenish nodding flowers. The commonest European species is Polygonatum multiflorum. P. biflorum and P. giganteum are common in the Eastern United States. See Illust. of Rootstock. False Solomon's seal (Bot.), any plant of the liliaceous genus Smilacina having small whitish flowers in terminal racemes or panicles.  SOLOMON'S SEAL Sol"o*mon's seal.  A mystic symbol consisting of two interlaced triangles forming a star with six points, often with one triangle dark and one light, symbolic of the union of soul and body. 

SOLON:  A celebrated Athenian lawmaker, born about 638 b. c.; hence, a legislator; a publicist; -- often used ironically.  SOLO WHIST Solo whist.  A card game played with the full pack ranking as at whist, each player declaring for which of seven different points he proposes to play. 

SOLPUGID:  Of or pertaining to the Solifugæ.  -- n.  One of the Solifugæ. 

SOLPUGIDEA:  Same as Solifugæ. 

SOLUBILITY:  The tendency to separate readily into parts by spurious articulations, as the pods of tick trefoil. 

SOLUBLENESS:  Quality or state of being soluble.  SOLUS; SOLA So"lus, masc. a., So"la, fem. a. Etym: [L.]  Alone; -- chiefly used in stage directions, and the like. 

SOLUTE:  Not adhering; loose; -- opposed to adnate; as, a solute stipule. 

SOLUTION:  The act or process by which a body (whether solid, liquid, or gaseous) is absorbed into a liquid, and, remaining or becoming fluid, is diffused throughout the solvent; also, the product reulting from such absorption.  Note: When a solvent will not take in any more of a substance the solution is said to be saturated. Solution is two kinds; viz.: (a) Mechanical solution, in which no marked chemical change takes place, and in which, in the case of solids, teh dissolved body can be regained by evaporation, as in the solution of salt or sugar in water. (b) Chemical solution, in which there is involved a decided chemical change, as when limestone or zinc undergoes solution in hydrochloric acid. Mechanical solution is regarded as a form of molecular or atomic attraction, and is probably occasioned by the formation of certain very weak and unstable compounds which are easily dissociated and pass into new and similar compounds.  Note: This word is not used in chemistry or mineralogy for fusion, or the melting of bodies by the heat of fire.  5. release; deliverance; disharge. [Obs.] Barrow.  6. (Med.) (a) The termination of a disease; resolution. (b) A crisis. (c) A liquid medicine or preparation (usually aqueous) in which the solid ingredients are wholly soluble. U. S. Disp. Fehling's solution (Chem.), a standardized solution of cupric hydrate in sodium potassium tartrate, used as a means of determining the reducing power of certain sugars and sirups by the amount of red cuprous oxide thrown down.  -- Heavy solution (Min.), a liquid of high density, as a solution of mercuric iodide in potassium iodide (called the Sonstadt or Thoulet solution) having a maximum specific gravity of 3.2, or of borotungstate of cadium (Klein solution, specific gravity 3.6), and the like. Such solutions are much used in determining the specific gravities of minerals, and in separating them when mechanically mixed as in a pulverized rock.  -- Nessler's solution. See Nesslerize.  -- Solution of continuity, the separation of connection, or of connected substances or parts; -- applied, in surgery, to a facture, laceration, or the like. "As in the natural body a wound, or solution of continuity, is worse than a corrupt humor, so in the spiritual." Bacon.  -- Standardized solution (Chem.), a solution which is used as a reagent, and is of a known and standard strength; specifically, a normal solution, containing in each cubic centimeter as many milligrams of the element in question as the number representing its atomic weight; thus, a normal solution of silver nitrate would contain 107.7 mgr. of silver nitrate in each cubic centimeter. 

SOLUTIVE:  Tending to dissolve; loosening; laxative. Bacon. 

SOLVABLENESS:  Quality of being solvable. 

SOLVE:  To explain; to resolve; to unfold; to clear up out to a result or conclusion; as, to solve a doubt; to solve difficulties; to solve a problem. True piety would effectually solve such scruples. South. God shall solve the dark decrees of fate. Tickell.  Syn.  -- To explain; resolve; unfold; clear up. 

SOLVE:  A solution; an explanation. [Obs.] Shak. 

SOLVENCY:  The quality or state of being solvent. 

SOLVEND:  A substance to be dissolved. [R.] 

SOLVENT:  A substance (usually liquid) suitable for, or employed in, solution, or in dissolving something; as, water is the appropriate solvent of most salts, alcohol of resins, ether of fats, and mercury or acids of metal, etc.  2. That which resolves; as, a solvent of mystery. 

SOLVER:  One who, or that which, solves. 

SOLVIBLE:  See Solvable. 

SOLY:  Solely. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SOMA:  The whole axial portion of an animal, including the head, neck, trunk, and tail. B. G. Wilder.  SOMAJ; SAMAJ So"maj", Sa*maj", n.  A society; a congregation; a worshiping assembly, or church, esp. of the Brahmo-somaj. [India]  SOMALI; SOMAL So*ma"li, So*mal", n. (Ethnol.)  A Hamitic people of East Central Africa. 

SOMATICAL:  Somatic. 

SOMATICS:  The science which treats of the general properties of matter; somatology. 

SOMATIST:  One who admits the existence of material beings only; a materialist. Glanvill. 

SOMATOCYST:  A cavity in the primary nectocalyx of certain Siphonophora. See Illust. under Nectocalyx. 

SOMATOME:  See Somite. 

SOMATOPLEURE:  The outer, or parietal, one of the two lamellæ into which the vertebrate blastoderm divides on either side of the notochord, and from which the walls of the body and the amnion are developed. See Splanchopleure. 

SOMATOPLEURIC:  of or pertaining to the somatopleure. 

SOMATOTROPISM:  A directive influence exercised by a mass of matter upon growing organs. Encyc. Brit.  SOMBER; SOMBRE Som"ber, Som"bre, a. Etym: [F. sombre; cf. Sp. sombra, shade, prob. from LL. subumbrare to put in the shade; L. sub under + umbra shade. See Umbrage.]  1. Dull; dusky; somewhat dark; gloomy; as, a somber forest; a somber house.  2. Melancholy; sad; grave; depressing; as, a somber person; somber reflections. The dinner was silent and somber; happily it was also short. Beaconsfield.  SOMBER; SOMBRE Som"ber, Som"bre, v. t.  To make somber, or dark; to make shady. [R.]  SOMBER; SOMBRE Som"ber, Som"bre, n.  Gloom; obscurity; duskiness; somberness. [Obs.]  SOMBERLY; SOMBRELY Som"ber*ly, Som"bre*ly, adv.  In a somber manner; sombrously; gloomily; despondingly.  SOMBERNESS; SOMBRENESS Som"ber*ness, Som"bre*ness, n.  The quality or state of being somber; gloominess. 

SOMBRERO:  A kind of broad-brimmed hat, worn in Spain and in Spanish America. Marryat. 

SOMBROUS:  Gloomy; somber. "Tall and sombrous pines." Longfellow.  -- Som"brous*ly, adv.  -- Som"brous*ness, n.  -SOME -some (-som).  A combining form or suffix from Gr. sw^ma (gen. sw`matos) the body; as in merosome, a body segment; cephalosome, etc.  -SOME -some (-sûm). Etym: [AS. -sum; akin to G. & OHG. -sam, Icel. samr, Goth. lustusams longed for. See Same, a., and cf. Some, a.]  An adjective suffix having primarily the sense of like or same, and indicating a considerable degree of the thing or quality denoted in the first part of the compound; as in mettlesome, full of mettle or spirit; gladsome, full of gladness; winsome, blithesome, etc. 

SOMEDEAL:  In some degree; somewhat. [Written also sumdel, sumdeale, and sumdele.] [Obs.] "She was somedeal deaf." Chaucer. Thou lackest somedeal their delight. Spenser. 

SOMEHOW:  In one way or another; in some way not yet known or designated; by some means; as, the thing must be done somehow; he lives somehow. By their action upon one another they may be swelled somehow, so as to shorten the length. Cheyne.  Note: The indefiniteness of somehow is emphasized by the addition of or other. Although youngest of the familly, he has somehow or other got the entire management of all the others. Sir W. Scott.  SOMERSAULT; SOMERSET Som"er*sault, Som"er*set, n. Etym: [F. soubresaut a jump, leap, OF. soubresault, It. soprassalto an overleap, fr. L. supra over + saltus a leap, fr. salire to leap; or the French may be from Sp. sobresalto a sudden asault, a surprise. See Supra, and Salient.]  A leap in which a person turns his heels over his head and lights upon his feet; a turning end over end. [Written also summersault, sommerset, summerset, etc.] "The vaulter's sombersalts." Donne. Now I'll only Make him break his neck in doing a sommerset. Beau. & Fl. 

SOMETHING:  , adv. In some degree; somewhat; to some exrent; at some distance. Shak. I something fear my father's wrath. Shak. We have something fairer play than a reasoner could have expected formerly. Burke. My sense of touch is something coarse. Tennyson. It must be done to-night, And something from the palace. Shak. 

SOMETIME:  Having been formerly; former; late; whilom. Our sometime sister, now our queen. Shak. Ion, our sometime darling, whom we prized. Talfourd. 

SOMETIMES:  Former; sometime. [Obs.] Thy sometimes brother's wife. Shak. 

SOMEWHAT:  In some degree or measure; a little. His giantship is gone, somewhat crestfallen. Milton. Somewhat back from the village street. Longfellow. 

SOMEWHEN:  At some indefinite time. [R.] 

SOMEWHERE:  In some place unknown or not specified; in one place or another. "Somewhere nigh at hand." Milton. 

SOMEWHILE:  Once; for a time. Though, under color of shepherds, somewhile There crept in wolves, full of fraund and guile. Spenser. 

SOMEWHITHER:  To some indeterminate place; to some place or other. Driven by the winds of temptation somewhither. Barrow. 

SOMITE:  One of the actual or ideal serial segments of which an animal, esp. an articulate or vertebrate, is composed; somatome; metamere.  -- So*mit`ic, a. 

SOMMEIL:  Slumber; sleep. 

SOMMERSET:  See Somersault. 

SOMNAMBULAR:  Of or pertaining to somnambulism; somnambulistic. Mrs. Browning. 

SOMNAMBULATE:  To walk when 

SOMNAMBULATION:  The act of walking in sleep. 

SOMNAMBULATOR:  A somnambulist. 

SOMNAMBULE:  A somnambulist. 

SOMNAMBULIC:  Somnambulistic. 

SOMNAMBULISM:  A condition of the nervous system in which an individual during sleep performs actions approppriate to the waking state; a state of sleep in which some of the senses and voluntary powers are partially awake; noctambulism. 

SOMNAMBULIST:  A person who is subject to somnambulism; one who walks in his sleep; a sleepwalker; a noctambulist. 

SOMNAMBULISTIC:  Of or pertaining to a somnambulist or somnambulism; affected by somnambulism; appropriate to the state of a somnambulist. Whether this was an intentional and waking departure, or a somnambulistic leave-taking and waking in her sleep, may remain a subject of contention. Dickens. 

SOMNE:  To summon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOMNER:  A summoner; esp., one who summons to an ecclesiastical court. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

SOMNIAL:  Of or pertaining to sleep or dreams. The somnial magic superinducted on, without suspending, the active powers of the mind. Coleridge. 

SOMNIATIVE:  Somnial; somniatory. [R.] 

SOMNIATORY:  Pertaining to sleep or dreams; somnial. [Obs. or R.] Urquhart. 

SOMNICULOUS:  Inclined to sleep; drowsy; sleepy. [Obs.] 

SOMNIFEROUS:  Causing or inducing sleep; soporific; dormitive; as, a somniferous potion. Walton. 

SOMNIFIC:  Causing sleep; somniferous. 

SOMNIFUGOUS:  Driving away sleep. [Obs.] 

SOMNILOQUENCE:  The act of talking in one's sleep; somniloquism. 

SOMNILOQUISM:  The act or habit of talking in one's sleep; somniloquy. Coleridge. 

SOMNILOQUIST:  One who talks in his sleep. 

SOMNILOQUOUS:  Apt to talk in sleep. 

SOMNILOQUY:  A talking in sleep; the talking of one in a state of somnipathy. [R.] Coleridge. 

SOMNIPATHIST:  A person in a state of somniapathy. 

SOMNIPATHY:  Sleep from sympathy, or produced by mesmerism or the like. [Written also somnopathy.]  SOMNOLENCE; SOMNOLENCY Som"no*lence, Som"no*len*cy, n. Etym: [L. somnolentia: cf. F. somnolence.]  Sleepiness; drowsiness; inclination to sleep. 

SOMNOLENT:  Sleepy; drowsy; inclined to sleep.  -- Som"no*lent*ly, adv. He had no eye for such phenomens, because he had a somnolent want of interest in them. De Quincey. 

SOMNOLISM:  The somnolent state induced by animal magnetism. Thomas (Med. Dict.). 

SOMNOPATHY:  Somnipathy. 

SOMNOUR:  A summoner; an apparitor; a sompnour. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.  SOMONAUNCE; SOMONCE Som"on*aunce, Som"once, n. Etym: [See Summon, Summons.]  A summons; a citation. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOMONOUR:  A summoner. [Obs.] 

SOMPNE:  To summon; to cite. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOMPNOUR:  A summoner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SON:  Jesus Christ, the Savior; -- called the Son of God, and the Son of man. We . . . do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. 1 John iv. 14. Who gave His Son sure all has given. Keble.  Note: The expressions son of pride, sons of light, son of Belial, are Hebraisms, which denote persons possessing the qualitites of pride, of light, or of Belial, as children inherit the qualities of their ancestors. Sons of the prophets. See School of the prophets, under Prophet. 

SONANT:  Uttered, as an element of speech, with tone or proper vocal sound, as distinguished from mere breath sound; intonated; voiced; tonic; the opposite of nonvocal, or surd; -- sid of the vowels, semivowels, liquids, and nasals, and particularly of the consonants b, d, g hard, v, etc., as compared with their cognates p, t, k, f, etc., which are called nonvocal, surd, or aspirate.  -- n.  A sonant letter. 

SONATA:  An extended composition for one or two instruments, consisting usually of three or four movements; as, Beethoven's sonatas for the piano, for the violin and piano, etc.  Note: The same general structure prevails in symphonies, instrumental trios, quartets, etc., and even in classical concertos. The sonata form, distinctively, characterizes the quick opening movement, which may have a short, slow introduction; the second, or slow, movement is either in the song or variation form; third comes the playful minuet of the more modern scherzo; then the quick finale in the rondo form. But both form and order are sometimes exceptional. 

SONATINA:  A short and simple sonata.  SONCY; SONSY Son"cy, Son"sy, a. Etym: [Scot. sonce, sons, prosperity, happiness, fr. Gael. & Ir. sonas.]  Lucky; fortunate; thriving; plump. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]  SOND; SONDE Sond, Sonde, n. Etym: [AS. sand. See Send, v. t.]  That which is sent; a message or messenger; hence, also, a visitation of providence; an affliction or trial. [Obs.] Ye have enough, parde, of Goddes sond. Chaucer. 

SONDELI:  The musk shrew. See under Musk. 

SONDERCLASS:  A special class of small yachts developed in Germany under the patronage of Emperor William and Prince Henry of Prussia, and so called because these yachts do not conform to the restrictions for the regular classes established by the rules of the International Yacht Racing Union. In yachts of the sonderclass, as prescribed for the season of 1911, the  aggregate of the length on water line, extreme beam, and extreme draft must be not more than 32 feet; the weight, not less than 4,035 pounds (without crew); the sail area, not more than 550 square yards; and the cost of construction (for American boats) not more than $2400. The crew must be amateurs and citizens of the country in which the yacht was built. 

SONGCRAFT:  The art of making songs or verse; metrical composition; versification. A half-effected inscription. Written with little skill of songcraft. Longfellow. 

SONGFUL:  Disposed to sing; full of song. 

SONGISH:  Consisting of songs. [R.] Dryden. 

SONGLESS:  Destitute of the power of song; without song; as, songless birds; songless woods. 

SONGSTER:  A singing bird. 

SONGSTRESS:  A woman who sings; a female singing bird. Thomson. 

SONIFER:  A kind of ear trumpet for the deaf, or the partially deaf. 

SONIFEROUS:  Sounding; producing sound; conveying sound. 

SONIFICATION:  The act of producing sound, as the stridulation of insects.  SON-IN-LAW Son"-in-law`, n.; pl. Sons-in-law (.  The husband of one's daughter; a man in his relationship to his wife's parents. To take me as for thy son in lawe. Chaucer. 

SONLESS:  Being without a son. Marston. As no baron who was sonless could give a husband to his daughter, save with his lord's consent. J. R. Green. 

SONNET:  To compose sonnets. "Strains that come almost to sonneting." Milton. 

SONNETEER:  A composer of sonnets, or small poems; a small poet; -- usually in contempt. What woful stuff this madrigal would be In some starved hackney sonneteer or me! Pope. 

SONNETEER:  To compose sonnets. Lowell. 

SONNETER:  A composer of sonnets. 

SONNETIST:  A sonneter, or sonneteer. Bp. Hall. 

SONNETIZE:  To compose sonnets. 

SONNISH:  Like the sun; sunny; golden. [Obs.] "Her sonnish hairs." Chaucer. 

SONNITE:  See Sunnite. 

SONOMETER:  An instrument for exhibiting the transverse vibrations of cords, and ascertaining the relations between musical notes. It consists of a cord stretched by weight along a box, and divided into different lengths at pleasure by a bridge, the place of which is determined by a scale on the face of the box.  2. An instrument for testing the hearing capacity. 

SONORAN:  Pertaining to or designating the arid division of the Austral zone, including the warmer parts of the western United States and central Mexico. It is divided into the Upper Sonoran, which lies next to the Transition zone, and the Lower Sonoran, next to the Tropical. 

SONORIFIC:  Producing sound; as, the sonorific quality of a body. [R.] I. Watts. 

SONORITY:  The quality or state of being sonorous; sonorousness. 

SONOROUS:  Sonant; vibrant; hence, of sounds produced in a cavity, deep- toned; as, sonorous rhonchi. Sonorous figures (Physics), figures formed by the vibrations of a substance capable of emitting a musical tone, as when the bow of a violin is drawn along the edge of a piece of glass or metal on which sand is strewed, and the sand arranges itself in figures according to the musical tone. Called also acoustic figures.  -- Sonorous tumor (Med.), a tumor which emits a clear, resonant sound on percussion.  -- So*no"rous*ly, adv.  -- So*no"rous*ness, n. 

SONSHIP:  The state of being a son, or of bearing the relation of a son; filiation. Dr. H. More. 

SONSY:  See Soncy. [Scot.] Burns. 

SONTAG:  A knitted worsted jacket, worn over the waist of a woman's dress. 

SONTIES:  Probably from "saintes" saints, or from sanctities; -- used as an oath. [Obs.] Shak. 

SOOCHONG:  Same as Souchong. 

SOODRA:  Same as Sudra.  SOOFEE; SOOFEEISM Soo"fee, Soo"fee*ism.  Same as Sufi, Sufism. 

SOOJEE:  Same as Suji. 

SOON:  Speedy; quick. [Obs.] Shak. 

SOONEE:  See Sunnite. 

SOONER:  In the western United States, one who settles on government land before it is legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair advantage.  SOONER STATE Sooner State.  Oklahoma; -- a nickname. 

SOONLY:  Soon. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

SOORD:  Skin of bacon. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SOORMA:  A preparation of antimony with which Mohammedan men anoint their eyelids. 

SOOSHONG:  See Souchong. 

SOOSOO:  A kind of dolphin (Platanista Gangeticus) native of the river Ganges; the Gangetic dolphin. It has a long, slender, somewhat spatulate beak. [Written also susu.] 

SOOT:  A black substance formed by combustion, or disengaged from fuel in the process of combustion, which rises in fine particles, and adheres to the sides of the chimney or pipe conveying the smoke; strictly, the fine powder, consisting chiefly of carbon, which colors smoke, and which is the result of imperfect combustion. See Smoke. 

SOOT:  To cover or dress with soot; to smut with, or as with, soot; as, to soot land. Mortimer.  SOOT; SOOTE Soot, Soot"e, a. Etym: [See Sweet.]  Sweet. [Obs.] "The soote savour of the vine." Chaucer. 

SOOTERKIN:  A kind of false birth, fabled to be produced by Dutch women from sitting over their stoves; also, an abortion, in a figurative sense; an abortive scheme. Fruits of dull heat, and sooterkins of wit. Pope. 

SOOTHER:  One who, or that which, soothes. 

SOOTHFAST:  Firmly fixed in, or founded upon, the thruth; true; genuine; real; also, truthful; faithful. [Archaic] -- Sooth"fast`ness, n. [Archaic] "In very soothfastness." Chaucer. Why do not you . . . bear leal and soothfast evidence in her behalf, as ye may with a clear conscience! Sir W. Scott. 

SOOTHFAST:  Soothly; really; in fact. [Archaic] I care not if the pomps you show Be what they soothfast appear. Emerson. 

SOOTHING:  from Soothe, v. 

SOOTHINGLY:  In a soothing manner. 

SOOTHLY:  In truth; truly; really; verily. [Obs.] "Soothly for to say." Chaucer. 

SOOTHNESS:  Truth; reality. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOOTHSAY:  To foretell; to predict. "You can not soothsay." Shak. "Old soothsaying Glaucus' spell." Milton. 

SOOTHSAYER:  A mantis. 

SOOTINESS:  The quality or state of being sooty; fuliginousness. Johnson. 

SOOTISH:  Sooty. Sir T. Browne. 

SOOTY:  To black or foul with soot. [R.] Sootied with noisome smoke. Chapman. 

SOP:  To steep or dip in any liquid. 

SOPE:  See Soap. [Obs.] 

SOPH:  A contraction of Soph ister. [Colloq.] 

SOPH:  A contraction of Sophomore. [Colloq.] 

SOPHI:  See Sufi.  SOPHIC; SOPHICAL Soph"ic, Soph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Teaching wisdom. [Obs.] S. Harris. 

SOPHIME:  Sophism. [Obs.] I trow ye study aboute some sophime. Chaucer. 

SOPHISM:  The doctrine or mode of reasoning practiced by a sophist; hence, any fallacy designed to deceive. When a false argument puts on the appearance of a true one, then it is properly called a sophism, or "fallacy". I. Watts. Let us first rid ourselves of sophisms, those of depraved men, and those of heartless philosophers. I. Taylor. 

SOPHISTER:  A student who is advanced beyond the first year of his residence.  Note: The entire course at the university consists of three years and one term, during which the students have the titles of first-year men, or freshmen; second-year men or junior sophs or sophisters; third-year men, or senior sophs or sophisters; and, in the last term, questionists, with reference to the approaching examination. In the older American colleges, the junior and senior classes were originally called, and in some of them are still called, junior sophisters and senior sophisters. 

SOPHISTER:  To maintain by sophistry, or by a fallacious argument. [Obs.] obham.  SOPHISTIC; SOPHISTICAL So*phis"tic, So*phis"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. sophisticus, Gr. sophistique.]  Of or pertaining to a sophist; embodying sophistry; fallaciously subtile; not sound. His argument . . . is altogether sophistical. Macaulay. -- So*phis"tic*al*ly, adv.  -- So*phis"tic*al*ness, n. 

SOPHISTICATE:  To render worthless by admixture; to adulterate; to damage; to pervert; as, to sophisticate wine. Howell. To sophisticate the understanding. Southey. Yet Butler professes to stick to plain facts, not to sophisticate, not to refine. M. Arnold. They purchase but sophisticated ware. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To adulterate; debase; corrupt; vitiate.  SOPHISTICATE; SOPHISTICATED So*phis"ti*cate, So*phis"ti*ca`ted, a.  Adulterated; not pure; not genuine. So truth, while only one supplied the state, Grew scare and dear, and yet sophisticate. Dryden. 

SOPHISTICATION:  The act of sophisticating; adulteration; as, the sophistication of drugs. Boyle. 

SOPHISTICATOR:  One who sophisticates. 

SOPHOMORE:  One belonging to the second of the four classes in an American college, or one next above a freshman. [Formerly written also sophimore.]  SOPHOMORIC; SOPHOMORICAL Soph`o*mor"ic, Soph`o*mor"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to a sophomore; resembling a sophomore; hence, pretentious; inflated in style or manner; as, sophomoric affectation. [U. S.] 

SOPHTA:  See Softa. 

SOPITE:  To lay asleep; to put to sleep; to quiet. [Obs.] The king's declaration for the sopiting of all Arminian heresies. Fuller. 

SOPITION:  The act of putting to sleep, or the state of being put to sleep; sleep. [Obs.] Dementation and sopition of reason. Sir T. Browne. 

SOPOR:  Profound sleep from which a person can be roused only with difficulty. 

SOPORATE:  To lay or put to sleep; to stupefy. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

SOPORIFEROUS:  Causing sleep; somniferous; soporific. "Soporiferous medicine." Swift. --- Sop`o*rif"er*ous*ly, adv.  -- Sop`o*rif"er*ous*ness, n. 

SOPORIFIC:  Causing sleep; tending to cause sleep; soporiferous; as, the soporific virtues of opium.  Syn.  -- Somniferous; narcotic; opiate; anodyne. 

SOPORIFIC:  A medicine, drug, plant, or other agent that has the quality of inducing sleep; a narcotic.  SOPOROSE; SOPOROUS Sop"o*rose`, Sop"o*rous, a. Etym: [From Sopor; cf. L. soporus, fr. sopor a heavy sleep; F. soporeux.]  Causing sleep; sleepy. 

SOPPER:  One who sops. Johnson. 

SOPPING:  more recent version of soppy. Used esp. in phrase sopping wet. 

SOPPY:  Soaked or saturated with liquid or moisture; very wet or sloppy. It [Yarmouth] looked rather spongy and soppy. Dickens. 

SOPRA:  Above; before; over; upon. 

SOPRANIST:  A treble singer. 

SOPSAVINE:  See Sops of wine, under Sop. 

SORA:  A North American rail (Porzana Carolina) common in the Eastern United States. Its back is golden brown, varied with black and white, the front of the head and throat black, the breast and sides of the head and neck slate-colored. Called also American rail, Carolina rail, Carolina crake, common rail, sora rail, soree, meadow chicken, and orto. King sora, the Florida gallinule. 

SORANCE:  Soreness. [Obs.] 

SORBATE:  A salt of sorbic acid. 

SORBEFACIENT:  Producing absorption.  -- n.  A medicine or substance which produces absorption. 

SORBENT:  An absorbent. [R.] 

SORBET:  A kind of beverage; sherbet. Smolett. 

SORBIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, the rowan tree, or sorb; specifically, designating an acid, C 

SORBILE:  Fit to be drunk or sipped. [Obs.] 

SORBIN:  An unfermentable sugar, isomeric with glucose, found in the ripe berries of the rowan tree, or sorb, and extracted as a sweet white crystalline substance; -- called also mountain-ash sugar. 

SORBITE:  A sugarlike substance, isomeric with mannite and dulcite, found with sorbin in the ripe berries of the sorb, and extracted as a sirup or a white crystalline substance.  -- Sor*bit"ic, a. 

SORBITION:  The act of drinking or sipping. [Obs.] 

SORBONICAL:  Belonging to the Sorbonne or to a Sorbonist. Bale. 

SORBONIST:  A doctor of the Sorbonne, or theological college, in the University of Paris, founded by Robert de Sorbon, a. d. 1252. It was suppressed in the Revolution of 1789. 

SORCERER:  A conjurer; an enchanter; a magician. Bacon. Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers. Ex. vii. 11. 

SORCERESS:  A female sorcerer. 

SORCERING:  Act or practice of using sorcery. 

SORCEROUS:  Of or pertaining to sorcery. 

SORCERY:  Divination by the assistance, or supposed assistance, of evil spirits, or the power of commanding evil spirits; magic; necromancy; witchcraft; enchantment. Adder's wisdom I have learned, To fence my ear against thy sorceries. Milton. 

SORD:  See Sward. [R.] Milton. 

SORDES:  Foul matter; excretion; dregs; filthy, useless, or rejected matter of any kind; specifically (Med.), the foul matter that collects on the teeth and tongue in low fevers and other conditions attended with great vital depression. 

SORDET:  A sordine. 

SORDIDLY:  Sordidness. [Obs.] 

SORDIDLY:  In a sordid manner. 

SORDIDNESS:  The quality or state of being sordid. 

SORDINE:  See Damper, and 5th Mute. 

SORE:  Reddish brown; sorrel. [R.] Sore falcon. (Zoöl.) See Sore, n., 1. 

SORE:  A young hawk or falcon in the first year.  2. (Zoöl.)  A young buck in the fourth year. See the Note under Buck. 

SOREDIA:  pl. of Soredium. 

SOREDIATE:  Sorediïferous.  SOREDIFEROUS; SOREDIIFEROUS Sore*dif"er*ous, or Sore*di*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Soredium + -ferous.] (Bot.)  Bearing soredia; sorediate. 

SOREDIUM:  A patch of granular bodies on the surface of the thallus of lichens. 

SOREE:  Same as Sora. 

SOREHEAD:  One who is disgruntled by a failure in politics, or the like. [Slang, U.S.] 

SOREHON:  Formerly, in Ireland, a kind of servile tenure which subjected the tenant to maintain his chieftain gratuitously whenever he wished to indulge in a revel. Spenser. 

SOREL:  A young buck in the third year. See the Note under Buck. Shak.  2. A yellowish or reddish brown color; sorrel. 

SORELY:  In a sore manner; grievously; painfully; as, to be sorely afflicted. 

SOREMA:  A heap of carpels belonging to one flower. 

SORENESS:  The quality or state of being sore; tenderness; painfull; as, the soreness of a wound; the soreness of an affliction. 

SOREX:  A genus of small Insectivora, including the common shrews. 

SORGHE:  The three-beared rocking, or whistlefish. [Prov. Eng.] 

SORGO:  Indian millet and its varieties. See Sorghum. 

SORI:  pl. of Sorus. 

SORICINE:  Of or pertaining to the Shrew family (Soricidæ); like a shrew in form or habits; as, the soricine bat (Glossophaga soricina). 

SORITES:  An abridged form of stating of syllogisms in a series of propositions so arranged that the predicate of each one that precedes forms the subject of each one that follows, and the conclusion unites the subject of the first proposition with the predicate of the last proposition, as in following example; -- The soul is a thinking agent; A thinking agent can not be severed into parts; That which can not be severed can not be destroyed; Therefore the soul can not be destroyed.  Note: When the series is arranged in the reverse order, it is called the Goclenian sorites, from Goclenius, a philosopher of the sixteenth century. Destructive sorities. See under Destructive. 

SORITICAL:  Of or pertaining to a sorites; resembling a sorites. 

SORN:  To obtrude one's self on another for bed and board. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SORNER:  One who obtrudes himself on another for bed and board. [Scot.] De Quncey. 

SORORAL:  Relating to a sister; sisterly. [R.] 

SORORICIDE:  The murder of one's sister; also, one who murders or kills one's own sister. Johnson. 

SORORIZE:  To associate, or hold fellowship, as sisters; to have sisterly feelings; -- analogous to fraternize. [Recent & R.] 

SOROSIS:  A woman's club; an association of women. [U. S.] 

SOROSIS:  A fleshy fruit formed by the consolidation of many flowers with their receptacles, ovaries, etc., as the breadfruit, mulberry, and pineapple. 

SORRAGE:  The blades of green or barley. [Obs.] Bailey. 

SORRANCE:  Same as Sorance. [Obs.] 

SORREL:  Of a yellowish or redish brown color; as, a sorrel horse. 

SORREL:  A yellowish or redish brown color. 

SORREL:  One of various plants having a sour juice; especially, a plant of the genus Rumex, as Rumex Acetosa, Rumex Acetosella, etc. Mountain sorrel. (Bot.) See under Mountain.  -- Red sorrel. (Bot.) (a) A malvaceous plant (Hibiscus Sabdariffa) whose acid calyxes and capsules are used in the West Indies for making tarts and acid drinks. (b) A troublesome weed (Rumex Acetosella), also called sheep sorrel.  -- Salt of sorrel (Chem.), binoxalate of potassa; -- so called because obtained from the juice of Rumex Acetosella, or Rumex Axetosa.  -- Sorrel tree (Bot.), a small ericaceous tree (Oxydendrum arboreum) whose leaves resemble those of the peach and have a sour taste. It is common along the Alleghanies. Called also sourwood.  -- Wood sorrel (Bot.), any plant of the genus Oxalis.  SORRENTO WORK Sor"ren"to work`.  Ornamental work, mostly carved in olivewood, decorated with inlay, made at or near Sorrento, Italy. Hence, more rarely, jig-saw work and the like done anywhere. 

SORRILY:  In a sorry manner; poorly. Thy pipe, O Pan, shall help, though I sing sorrily. Sir P. Sidney. 

SORRINESS:  The quality or state of being sorry. 

SORROW:  The uneasiness or pain of mind which is produced by the loss of any good, real or supposed, or by diseappointment in the expectation of good; grief at having suffered or occasioned evil; regret; unhappiness; sadness. Milton. How great a sorrow suffereth now Arcite! Chaucer. The safe and general antidote against sorrow is employment. Rambler.  Syn.  -- Grief; unhappiness; regret; sadness; heaviness; mourning; affliction. See Affliction, and Grief. 

SORROW:  To feel pain of mind in consequence of evil experienced, feared, or done; to grieve; to be sad; to be sorry. Sorrowing most of all . . . that they should see his face no more. Acts xx. 38. I desire no man to sorrow for me. Sir J. Hayward. 

SORROWED:  Accompanied with sorrow; sorrowful. [Obs.] Shak. 

SORROWLESS:  Free from sorrow. 

SORS:  A lot; also, a kind of divination by means of lots. Sortes Homericæ or Virgilianæ Etym: [L., Homeric or Virgilian lots], a form of divination anciently practiced, which consisted in taking the first passage on which the eye fell, upon opening a volume of Homer or Virgil, or a passage drawn from an urn which several were deposited, as indicating future events, or the proper course to be pursued. In later times the Bible was used for the same purpose by Christians. 

SORT:  Chance; lot; destiny. [Obs.] By aventure, or sort, or cas [chance]. Chaucer. Let blockish Ajax draw The sort to fight with Hector. Shak. 

SORT:  Letters, figures, points, marks, spaces, or quadrats, belonging to a case, separately considered. Out of sorts (Print.), with some letters or sorts of type deficient or exhausted in the case or font; hence, colloquially, out of order; ill; vexed; disturbed.  -- To run upon sorts (Print.), to use or require a greater number of some particular letters, figures, or marks than the regular proportion, as, for example, in making an index.  Syn.  -- Kind; species; rank; condition.  -- Sort, Kind. Kind originally denoted things of the same family, or bound together by some natural affinity; and hence, a class. Sort signifies that which constitutes a particular lot of parcel, not implying necessarily the idea of affinity, but of mere assemblage. the two words are now used to a great extent interchangeably, though sort (perhaps from its original meaning of lot) sometimes carries with it a slight tone of disparagement or contempt, as when we say, that sort of people, that sort of language. As when the total kind Of birds, in orderly array on wing, Came summoned over Eden to receive Their names of there. Milton. None of noble sort Would so offend a virgin. Shak. 

SORTABLY:  Suitable. [Obs.] otgrave. 

SORTAL:  Pertaining to a sort. [Obs.] Locke. 

SORTANCE:  Suitableness; agreement. [Obs.] hak. 

SORTER:  One who, or that which, sorts. 

SORTES:  pl. of Sors. 

SORTIE:  The sudden issuing of a body of troops, usually small, from a besieged place to attack or harass the besiegers; a sally. 

SORTILEGE:  The act or practice of drawing lots; divination by drawing lots. A woman infamous for sortileges and witcheries. Sir W. Scott. 

SORTILEGIOUS:  Pertaining to sortilege. 

SORTILEGY:  Sortilege. [R.] De Quincey. 

SORTITION:  Selection or appointment by lot. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SORTMENT:  Assortiment. [Obs.] 

SORUS:  One of the fruit dots, or small clusters of sporangia, on the back of the fronds of ferns. 

SORWE:  Sorrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SORWEFUL:  Sorrowful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SORY:  Green vitriol, or some earth imregnated with it. 

SOS:  The letters signified by the signal ( . . . ---. . . ) prescribed by the International Radiotelegraphic Convention of 1912 for use by ships in distress.  SO-SO So"-so`, a. Etym: [So + so.]  Neither very good nor very bad; middling; passable; tolerable; indifferent. In some Irish houses, where things are so-so, One gammon of bacon hangs up for a show. Goldsmith. He [Burns] certainly wrote some so-so verses to the Tree of Liberty. Prof. Wilson.  SO-SO So"-so`, adv.  Tolerably; passably. H. James. 

SOSS:  To fall at once into a chair or seat; to sit lazily. [Obs.] Swift. 

SOSS:  To throw in a negligent or careless manner; to toss. [Obs.] Swift. 

SOSS:  Anything dirty or muddy; a dirty puddle. [Prov. Eng.] 

SOSTENUTO:  Sustained; -- applied to a movement or passage the sounds of which are to sustained to the utmost of the nominal value of the time; also, to a passage the tones of which are to be somewhat prolonged or protacted. 

SOT:  Sottish; foolish; stupid; dull. [Obs.] "Rich, but sot." Marston. 

SOT:  To stupefy; to infatuate; to besot. [R.] I hate to see a brave, bold fellow sotted. Dryden. 

SOT:  To tipple to stupidity. [R.] Goldsmith. 

SOTADEAN:  Sotadic. 

SOTADIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the lascivious compositions of the Greek poet Sotades.  -- n.  A Sotadic verse or poem. 

SOTE:  Sweet. [Obs.] Chaucer. Fairfax.  SOTEL; SOTIL So"tel, So"til, a.  Subtile. [Obs.] 

SOTERIOLOGY:  The doctrine of salvation by Jesus Christ. 

SOTHE:  Sooth. [Obs.] Chaucer.  SOTHIAC; SOTHIC So"thi*ac, Soth"ic, a.  Of or pertaining to Sothis, the Egyptian name for the Dog Star; taking its name from the Dog Star; canicular. Sothiac, or Sothic, year (Chronol.), the Egyptian year of 365 days and 6 hours, as distinguished from the Egyptian vague year, which contained 365 days. The Sothic period consists of 1,460 Sothic years, being equal to 1,461 vague years. One of these periods ended in July, a. d. 139. 

SOTILTE:  Subtlety. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOTTED:  a. & p. p. of Sot. Befooled; deluded; besotted. [Obs.] "This sotted priest." Chaucer. 

SOTTERY:  Folly. [Obs.] Gauden. 

SOTTISH:  Like a sot; doltish; very foolish; drunken. How ignorant are sottish pretenders to astrology! Swift.  Syn.  -- Dull; stupid; senseless; doltish; infatuate.  -- Sot"tish*ly, adv.  -- Sot"tish*ness, n.  SOTTO VOCE Sot`to vo"ce. Etym: [It.]  1. (Mus.)  With a restrained voice or moderate force; in an undertone.  2. Spoken low or in an undertone. 

SOU:  An old French copper coin, equivalent in value to, and now displaced by, the five-centime piece (sou.  SOUARI NUT Sou*a"ri nut`. (Bot.)  The large edible nutlike seed of a tall tropical American tree (Caryocar nuciferum) of the same natural order with the tea plant; -- also called butternut. [Written also sawarra nut.] 

SOUBAH:  See Subah. 

SOUBAHDAR:  See Subahdar. 

SOUBRETTE:  A female servant or attendant; specifically, as a term of the theater, a lady's maid, in comedies, who acts the part of an intrigante; a meddlesome, mischievous female servant or young woman. 

SOUBRIQUET:  See Sobriquet. 

SOUCE:  See 1st Souse. 

SOUCE:  See Souse. [Obs.] penser. 

SOUCHONG:  A kind of black tea of a fine quality. 

SOUDAN:  A sultan. [Obs.]  SOUDED; SOUDET Soud"ed, Soud"et, a. Etym: [See Solder.]  United; consolidated; made firm; strengthened. [Obs.] O martyr souded for virginity! Chaucer. 

SOUFFLE:  A murmuring or blowing sound; as, the uterine souffle heard over the pregnant uterus. 

SOUFFLE:  A side dish served hot from the oven at dinner, made of eggs, milk, and flour or other farinaceous substance, beaten till very light, and flavored with fruits, liquors, or essence. 

SOUFFLEE:  Filled with air by beating, and baked; as, an omelette soufflé. 

SOUGH:  A sow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOUGH:  A small drain; an adit. [Prov. Eng.] W. M. Buchanan. 

SOUGH:  To whistle or sigh, as the wind. 

SOUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Seek. 

SOUKE:  To suck. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOUL:  Sole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOUL:  Sole. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOUL:  To afford suitable sustenance. [Obs.] Warner. 

SOUL:  To indue with a soul; to furnish with a soul or mind. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOULED:  Furnished with a soul; possessing soul and feeling; -- used chiefly in composition; as, great-souled Hector. "Grecian chiefs . . . largely souled." Dryden. 

SOULILI:  A long-tailed, crested Javan monkey (Semnopithecus mitratus). The head, the crest, and the upper surface of the tail, are black. 

SOULLESS:  Being without a soul, or without greatness or nobleness of mind; mean; spiritless. Slave, souless villain, dog! Shak. 

SOULLESSLY:  In a soulless manner. Tylor. 

SOUN:  Sound. [Obs.] aucer. 

SOUND:  The air bladder of a fish; as, cod sounds are an esteemed article of food. 

SOUND:  A cuttlefish. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

SOUND:  Soundly. So sound he slept that naught might him awake. Spenser. 

SOUND:  A narrow passage of water, or a strait between the mainland and an island; also, a strait connecting two seas, or connecting a sea or lake with the ocean; as, the Sound between the Baltic and the german Ocean; Long Island Sound. The Sound of Denmark, where ships pay toll. Camden. Sound dues, tolls formerly imposed by Denmark on vessels passing through the Baltic Sound. 

SOUND:  To explore, as the bladder or urethra, with a sound; to examine with a sound; also, to examine by auscultation or percussion; as, to sound a patient. 

SOUND:  To ascertain the depth of water with a sounding line or other device. I sound as a shipman soundeth in the sea with his plummet to know the depth of sea. Palsgrave. 

SOUND:  Any elongated instrument or probe, usually metallic, by which cavities of the body are sounded or explored, especially the bladder for stone, or the urethra for a stricture. 

SOUNDABLE:  Capable of being sounded. 

SOUNDAGE:  Dues for soundings.  SOUND-BOARD Sound"-board`, n.  A sounding-board. To many a row of pipes the sound-board breathes. Milton. 

SOUNDER:  One who, or that which; sounds; specifically, an instrument used in telegraphy in place of a register, the communications being read by sound. 

SOUNDER:  A herd of wild hogs. 

SOUNDING:  Making or emitting sound; hence, sonorous; as, sounding words. Dryden. 

SOUNDING:  An unmanned balloon sent aloft for meteorological or aëronautic purposes.  SOUNDING-BOARD Sound"ing-board`, n.  1. (Mus.)  A thin board which propagates the sound in a piano, in a violin, and in some other musical instruments.  2. A board or structure placed behind or over a pulpit or rostrum to give distinctness to a speaker's voice.  3. pl.  See Sound boarding, under Sound, a noise. 

SOUNDLESS:  Not capable of being sounded or fathomed; unfathomable. Shak. 

SOUNDLESS:  Having no sound; noiseless; silent.  -- Sound"less*ly, adv.  -- Sound"less*ness, n. 

SOUNDLY:  In a sound manner. 

SOUNDNESS:  The quality or state of being sound; as, the soundness of timber, of fruit, of the teeth, etc.; the soundness of reasoning or argument; soundness of faith.  Syn.  -- Firmness; strength; solidity; healthiness; truth; rectitude. 

SOUNE:  To sound. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOUNST:  Soused. See Souse. [Obs.] 

SOUP:  A liquid food of many kinds, usually made by boiling meat and vegetables, or either of them, in water, -- commonly seasoned or flavored; strong broth. Soup kitchen, an establishment for preparing and supplying soup to the poor.  -- Soup ticket, a ticket conferring the privilege of receiving soup at a soup kitchen. 

SOUP:  To sup or swallow. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

SOUP:  To breathe out. [Obs.] amden. 

SOUP:  To sweep. See Sweep, and Swoop. [Obs.] 

SOUPCON:  A suspicion; a suggestion; hence, a very small portion; a taste; as, coffee with a soupçon of brandy; a soupçon of coquetry.  SOUPE-MAIGRE Soupe`-mai"gre, n. Etym: [F.] (Cookery)  Soup made chiefly from vegetables or fish with a little butter and a few condiments. 

SOUPLE:  That part of a flail which strikes the grain. Knight. 

SOUPY:  Resembling soup; souplike. 

SOUR:  A sour or acid substance; whatever produces a painful effect. Spenser. 

SOUR:  To become sour; to turn from sweet to sour; as, milk soon sours in hot weather; a kind temper sometimes sours in adversity. They keep out melancholy from the virtuous, and hinder the hatred of vice from souring into severity. Addison. 

SOURCROUT:  See Sauerkraut. 

SOURDE:  To have origin or source; to rise; to spring. [Obs.] Now might men ask whereof that pride sourdeth. Chaucer. 

SOURING:  Any sour apple. 

SOURISH:  Somewhat sour; moderately acid; as, sourish fruit; a sourish taste. 

SOURKROUT:  Same as Sauerkraut. 

SOURLY:  In a sour manner; with sourness. 

SOURNESS:  The quality or state of being sour. 

SOURS:  Source. See Source. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOURSOP:  The large succulent and slightly acid fruit of a small tree (Anona muricata) of the West Indies; also, the tree itself. It is closely allied to the custard apple. 

SOURWOOD:  The sorrel tree.  SOUS; SOUSE Sous, Souse (F. soo; colloq. Eng. sous), n.  A corrupt form of Sou. [Obs.] Colman, the Elder. 

SOUSE:  To swoop or plunge, as a bird upon its prey; to fall suddenly; to rush with speed; to make a sudden attack. For then I viewed his plunge and souse Into the foamy main. Marston. Jove's bird will souse upon the timorous hare. J. Dryden. Jr. 

SOUSE:  To pounce upon. [R.] [The gallant monarch] like eagle o'er his serie towers, To souse annoyance that comes near his nest. Shak. 

SOUSE:  The act of sousing, or swooping. As a falcon fair That once hath failed or her souse full near. Spenser. 

SOUSE:  With a sudden swoop; violently. Young. 

SOUSLIK:  See Suslik. 

SOUT:  Soot. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SOUTACHE:  A kind of narrow braid, usually of silk; -- also known as Russian braid. 

SOUTAGE:  That in which anything is packed; bagging, as for hops. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

SOUTANE:  A close garnment with straight sleeves, and skirts reaching to the ankles, and buttoned in front from top to bottom; especially, the black garment of this shape worn by the clergy in France and Italy as their daily dress; a cassock. 

SOUTER:  A shoemaker; a cobbler. [Obs.] Chaucer. There is no work better than another to please God: . . . to wash dishes, to be a souter, or an apostle, -- all is one. Tyndale. 

SOUTERLY:  Of or pertaining to a cobbler or cobblers; like a cobbler; hence, vulgar; low. [Obs.] 

SOUTERRAIN:  A grotto or cavern under ground. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. 

SOUTH:  Lying toward the south; situated at the south, or in a southern direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the south, or coming from the south; blowing from the south; southern; as, the south pole. "At the south entry." Shak. South-Sea tea (Bot.) See Yaupon. 

SOUTH:  , adv.  1. Toward the south; southward.  2. From the south; as, the wind blows south. Bacon. 

SOUTH:  To come to the meridian; to cross the north and south line; -- said chiefly of the moon; as, the moon souths at nine. 

SOUTHCOTTIAN:  A follower of Joanna Southcott (1750-1814), an Englishwoman who, professing to have received a miraculous calling, preached and prophesied, and committed many impious absurdities. 

SOUTHDOWN:  Of or pertaining to the South Downs, a range of pasture hills south of the Thames, in England. Southdown sheep (Zoöl.), a celebrated breed of shortwooled, hornless sheep, highly valued on account of the delicacy of their flesh. So called from the South Downs where the breed originated. 

SOUTHDOWN:  A Southdown sheep. 

SOUTHEAST:  The point of the compass equally distant from the south and the east; the southeast part or region. 

SOUTHEAST:  Of or pertaining to the southeast; proceeding toward, or coming from, the southeast; as, a southeast course; a southeast wind. 

SOUTHEASTER:  A storm, strong wind, or gale coming from the southeast. 

SOUTHEASTER:  Toward the southeast. 

SOUTHEASTERN:  Of or pertaining to the southeast; southeasterly.  SOUTHEASTWARD; SOUTHEASTWARDLY South`east"ward, South`east"ward*ly, adv.  Toward the southeast. 

SOUTHER:  A strong wind, gale, or storm from the south. 

SOUTHERLINESS:  The quality or state of being southerly; direction toward the south. 

SOUTHERLY:  Southern. 

SOUTHERN:  Of or pertaining to the south; situated in, or proceeding from, the south; situated or proceeding toward the south. Southern Cross (Astron.), a constellation of the southern hemisphere containing several bright stars so related in position as to resemble a cross.  -- Southern Fish (Astron.), a constelation of the southern hemisphere (Piscis Australis) containing the bright star Fomalhaut.  -- Southern States (U.S. Hist. & Geog.), the States of the American Union lying south of Pennsylvania and the Ohio River, with Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas. Before the Civil War, Missouri also, being a slave State, was classed as one of the Southern States. 

SOUTHERN:  A Southerner. [R.] 

SOUTHERNER:  An inhabitant or native of the south, esp. of the Southern States of North America; opposed to Northerner. 

SOUTHERNLINESS:  Southerliness. 

SOUTHERNLY:  Somewhat southern.  -- adv.  In a southerly manner or course; southward. 

SOUTHERNMOST:  Farthest south. 

SOUTHERNWOOD:  A shrubby species of wormwood (Artemisia Abrotanum) having aromatic foliage. It is sometimes used in making beer. 

SOUTHING:  Distance of any heavenly body south of the equator; south declination; south latitude.  4. (Surv. & Navigation)  Distance southward from any point departure or of reckoning, measured on a meridian; -- opposed to northing. 

SOUTHLY:  Southerly. [Obs. & R.] 

SOUTHMOST:  Farthest toward the south; southernmost. [R.] Milton. 

SOUTHNESS:  A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point toward the south pole. Faraday. 

SOUTHPAW:  Using the left hand in pitching; said of a pitcher. [Cant] 

SOUTHPAW:  A pitcher who pitches with the left hand. [Cant] 

SOUTHREN:  Southern. [Obs.] "I am a Southren man." Chaucer. 

SOUTHRON:  An inhabitant of the more southern part of a country; formerly, a name given in Scotland to any Englishman. 

SOUTHSAY:  See Soothsay. [Obs.] 

SOUTHSAYER:  See Soothsayer. [Obs.]  SOUTH; SOUTHERLY South` south"er*ly. (Zoöl.)  the old squaw; -- so called in imitation of its cry. Called also southerly, and southerland. See under Old.  SOUTHWARD; SOUTHWARDS South"ward, South"wards, adv.  Toward the south, or toward a point nearer the south than the east or west point; as, to go southward. 

SOUTHWARD:  Toward the south. 

SOUTHWARD:  The southern regions or countries; the south. Sir W. Raleigh. 

SOUTHWARDLY:  In a southern direction. 

SOUTHWEST:  The point of the compass equally from the south and the west; the southwest part or region. 

SOUTHWEST:  Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the southwest; proceeding toward the southwest; coming from the southwest; as, a southwest wind. 

SOUTHWESTERLY:  To ward or from the southwest; as, a southwesterly course; a southwesterly wind. 

SOUTHWESTERN:  Of or pertaining to the southwest; southwesterly; as, to sail a southwestern course.  SOUTHWESTWARD; SOUTHWESTWARDLY South`west"ward, South`west"ward*ly, adv.  Toward the southwest.  SOUVENANCE; SOVENAUNCE Sou"ve*nance, So"ve*naunce, n. Etym: [F. souvenance.]  Remembrance. [Obs.] Of his way he had no sovenance. Spenser. 

SOUVENIR:  That which serves as a reminder; a remembrancer; a memento; a keepsake. 

SOVEREIGN:  Any butterfly of the tribe Nymphalidi, or genus Basilarchia, as the ursula and the viceroy.  Syn.  -- King; prince; monarch; potentate; emperor. 

SOVEREIGNIZE:  To exercise supreme authority. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 

SOVEREIGNLY:  In a sovereign manner; in the highest degree; supremely. Chaucer. 

SOVEREIGNTY:  The quality or state of being sovereign, or of being a sovereign; the exercise of, or right to exercise, supreme power; dominion; sway; supremacy; independence; also, that which is sovereign; a sovereign state; as, Italy was formerly divided into many sovereignties. Woman desiren to have sovereignty As well over their husband as over their love. Chaucer. 

SOVRAN:  A variant of Sovereign. [Poetic] On thy bald, awful head, O sovran Blanc. Coleridge. 

SOW:  To sew. See Sew. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOW:  The female of swine, or of the hog kind.  2. (Zoöl.)  A sow bug.  3. (Metal.) (a) A channel or runner which receives the rows of molds in the pig bed. (b) The bar of metal which remains in such a runner. (c) A mass of solidified metal in a furnace hearth; a salamander.  4. (Mil.)  A kind of covered shed, formerly used by besiegers in filling up and passing the ditch of a besieged place, sapping and mining the wall, or the like. Craig. Sow bread. (Bot.) See Cyclamen.  -- Sow bug, or Sowbug (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of terrestrial Isopoda belonging to Oniscus, Porcellio, and allied genera of the family Oniscidæ. They feed chiefly on decaying vegetable substances.  -- Sow thistle Etym: [AS. sugepistel] (Bot.), a composite plant (Sonchus oleraceus) said to be eaten by swine and some other animals. 

SOW:  To scatter seed for growth and the production of a crop; -- literally or figuratively. They that sow in tears shall reap in joi. Ps. cxxvi. 5. 

SOWANS:  See Sowens. 

SOWAR:  In India, a mounted soldier. 

SOWBANE:  The red goosefoot (Chenopodium rubrum), -- said to be fatal to swine. 

SOWCE:  See Souse. [Obs.] 

SOWDAN:  Sultan. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOWDANESSE:  A sultaness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOWENS:  A nutritious article of food, much used in Scotland, made from the husk of the oat by a process not unlike that by which common starch is made; -- called flummery in England. [Written also sowans, and sowins.] 

SOWER:  One who, or that which, sows. 

SOWINS:  See Sowens.  SOWL; SOWLE Sowl, Sowle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. prov. G. zaulen, zauseln, G. zausen to tug, drag.]  To pull by the ears; to drag about. [Obs.] hak. 

SOWL:  See Soul, v. i. [Obs.] 

SOWN:  p. p. of Sow. 

SOWNE:  To sound. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SOWSE:  See Souse. [Obs.] ryden. 

SOWTER:  See Souter. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SOY:  The soja, a kind of bean. See Soja. 

SOYLE:  To solve, to clear up; as, to soyl all other texts. [Obs.] Tyndate. 

SOYLE:  Prey. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SOYNED:  Filled with care; anxious. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag. 

SPA:  A spring or mineral water; -- so called from a place of this name in Belgium. 

SPAAD:  A kind of spar; earth flax, or amianthus. [Obs.] oodward. 

SPACE:  One of the intervals, or open places, between the lines of the staff. Absolute space, Euclidian space, etc. See under Absolute, Euclidian, etc.  -- Space line (Print.), a thin piece of metal used by printers to open the lines of type to a regular distance from each other, and for other purposes; a lead. Hansard.  -- Space rule (Print.), a fine, thin, short metal rule of the same height as the type, used in printing short lines in tabular matter. 

SPACE:  To walk; to rove; to roam. [Obs.] And loved in forests wild to space. Spenser. 

SPACE:  To arrange or adjust the spaces in or between; as, to space words, lines, or letters.  SPACE BAR; SPACE KEY Space bar or key. (Mach.)  A bar or key, in a typewriter or typesetting machine, used for spacing between letters. 

SPACEFUL:  Wide; extensive. Sandys. 

SPACELESS:  Without space. Coleridge. 

SPACIAL:  See Spatial. 

SPACIALLY:  See Spatially. Sir W,Hamilton. 

SPAD:  A nail one or two inches long, of iron, brass, tin, or tinner iron, with a hole through the flattened head, used to mark stations in underground surveying. 

SPADASSIN:  A bravo; a bully; a duelist. Ld. Lytton. 

SPADDLE:  A little spade. [Obs.] 

SPADE:  A hart or stag three years old. [Written also spaid, spayade.]  2. Etym: [Cf. L. spado.]  A castrated man or beast. 

SPADE:  One of that suit of cards each of which bears one or more figures resembling a spade. "Let spades be trumps!" she said. Pope.  3. A cutting instrument used in flensing a whale. Spade bayonet, a bayonet with a broad blade which may be used digging; -- called also trowel bayonet.  -- Spade handle (Mach.), the forked end of a connecting rod in which a pin is held at both ends. See Illust. of Knuckle joint, under Knuckle. 

SPADE:  To dig with a spade; to pare off the sward of, as land, with a spade. 

SPADEBONE:  Shoulder blade. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPADEFISH:  An American market fish (Chætodipterus faber) common on the southern coasts; -- called also angel fish, moonfish, and porgy. 

SPADEFOOT:  Any species of burrowing toads of the genus Scaphiopus, esp. S. Holbrookii, of the Eastern United States; -- called also spade toad. 

SPADEFUL:  As much as a spade will hold or lift. 

SPADER:  One who, or that which, spades; specifically, a digging machine. 

SPADICEOUS:  Bearing flowers on a spadix; of the nature of a spadix. 

SPADICOSE:  Spadiceous. 

SPADILLE:  The ace of spades in omber and quadrille. 

SPADIX:  A fleshy spike of flowers, usually inclosed in a leaf called a spathe.  2. (Zoöl.)  A special organ of the nautilus, due to a modification of the posterior tentacles. 

SPADO:  An impotent person. 

SPADROON:  A sword, especially a broadsword, formerly used both to cut and thrust. 

SPAE:  To foretell; to divine. [Scot.] 

SPAEMAN:  A prophet; a diviner. [Scot.] 

SPAEWIFE:  A female fortune teller. [Scot.] 

SPAGHETTI:  A variety or macaroni made in tubes of small diameter.  SPAGYRIC; SPAGYRICAL Spa*gyr"ic, Spa*gyr"ic*al, a. Etym: [LL. sparygicus, fr. Gr. spagirique.]  Chemical; alchemical. [Obs.] 

SPAGYRIC:  A spagyrist. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SPAID:  See 1st Spade. 

SPAKE:  imp. of Speak. 

SPAKENET:  A net for catching crabs. Halliwell. 

SPAKY:  Specky. [Obs.] hapman.  SPALDING KNIFE Spald"ing knife`.  A spalting knife. 

SPALE:  A strengthening cross timber. 

SPALL:  The shoulder. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SPALL:  A chip or fragment, especially a chip of stone as struck off the block by the hammer, having at least one feather-edge. 

SPALL:  To break into small pieces, as ore, for the purpose of separating from rock. Pryce.  2. (Masonry)  To reduce, as irregular blocks of stone, to an approximately level surface by hammering. 

SPALL:  To give off spalls, or wedge-shaped chips; -- said of stone, as when badly set, with the weight thrown too much on the outer surface. 

SPALPEEN:  A scamp; an Irish term for a good-for-nothing fellow; -- often used in good-humored contempt or ridicule. [Colloq.] 

SPALT:  Spelter. [Colloq.] 

SPALT:  To split off; to cleave off, as chips from a piece of timber, with an ax. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.]  SPALTING KNIFE Spalt"ing knife`.  A knife used in splitting codfish. [Written also spalding knife.] 

SPAN:  imp. & p. p. of Spin. 

SPAN:  A rope having its ends made fast so that a purchase can be hooked to the bight; also, a rope made fast in the center so that both ends can be used.  5. Etym: [Cf. D. span, Sw. spann, Dan. spænd, G. gespann. See Span, v. t. ]  A pair of horses or other animals driven together; usually, such a pair of horses when similar in color, form, and action. Span blocks (Naut.), blocks at the topmast and topgallant-mast heads, for the studding-sail halyards.  -- Span counter, an old English child's game, in which one throws a counter on the ground, and another tries to hit it with his counter, or to get his counter so near it that he can span the space between them, and touch both the counters. Halliwell. "Henry V., in whose time boys went to span counter for French crowns." Shak.  -- Span iron (Naut.), a special kind of harpoon, usually secured just below the gunwale of a whaleboat.  -- Span roof, a common roof, having two slopes and one ridge, with eaves on both sides. Gwilt.  -- Span shackle (Naut.), a large bolt driven through the forecastle deck, with a triangular shackle in the head to receive the heel of the old-fashioned fish davit. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

SPAN:  To be matched, as horses. [U. S.] 

SPANAEMIA:  A condition of impoverishment of the blood; a morbid state in which the red corpuscles, or other important elements of the blood, are deficient. 

SPANAEMIC:  Of or pertaining to spanæmia; having impoverished blood. 

SPANCEL:  A rope used for tying or hobbling the legs of a horse or cow. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] Grose. 

SPANCEL:  To tie or hobble with a spancel. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] Malone. 

SPANDOGS:  A pair of grappling dogs for hoisting logs and timber. 

SPANDREL:  The irregular triangular space between the curve of an arch and the inclosing right angle; or the space between the outer moldings of two contiguous arches and a horizontal line above them, or another arch above and inclosing them.  2. A narrow mat or passe partout for a picture. [Cant] 

SPANE:  To wean. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SPANG:  To spangle. [Obs.] 

SPANG:  To spring; to bound; to leap. [Scot.] But when they spang o'er reason's fence, We smart for't at our own expense. Ramsay. 

SPANG:  A bound or spring. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SPANG:  A spangle or shining ornament. [Obs.] With glittering spangs that did like stars appear. Spenser. 

SPANGLE:  To set or sprinkle with, or as with, spangles; to adorn with small, distinct, brilliant bodies; as, a spangled breastplate. Donne. What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty Shak. Spangled coquette (Zoöl.), a tropical humming bird (Lophornis reginæ). See Coquette, 2. 

SPANGLE:  To show brilliant spots or points; to glisten; to glitter. Some men by feigning words as dark as mine Make truth to spangle, and its rays to shine. Bunyan. 

SPANGLER:  One who, or that which, spangles. 

SPANGLY:  Resembling, or consisting of, spangles; glittering; as, spangly light. 

SPANIARD:  A native or inhabitant of Spain. 

SPANIEL:  One of a breed of small dogs having long and thick hair and large drooping ears. The legs are usually strongly feathered, and the tail bushy. See Illust. under Clumber, and Cocker.  Note: There are several varieties of spaniels, some of which, known as field spaniels, are used in hunting; others are used for toy or pet dogs, as the Blenheim spaniel, and the King Charles spaniel (see under Blenheim). Of the field spaniels, the larger kinds are called springers, and to these belong the Sussex, Norfolk, and Clumber spaniels (see Clumber). The smaller field spaniels, used in hunting woodcock, are called cocker spaniels (see Cocker). Field spaniels are remarkable for their activity and intelligence. As a spaniel she will on him leap. Chaucer.  2. A cringing, fawning person. Shak. 

SPANIEL:  Cringing; fawning. Shak. 

SPANIEL:  To fawn; to cringe; to be obsequious. [R.] Churchill. 

SPANIEL:  To follow like a spaniel. [R.] 

SPANISH:  Of or pertaining to Spain or the Spaniards. Spanish bayonet (Bot.), a liliaceous plant (Yucca alorifolia) with rigid spine-tipped leaves. The name is also applied to other similar plants of the Southwestern United States and mexico. Called also Spanish daggers.  -- Spanish bean (Bot.) See the Note under Bean.  -- Spanish black, a black pigment obtained by charring cork. Ure.  -- Spanish broom (Bot.), a leguminous shrub (Spartium junceum) having many green flexible rushlike twigs.  -- Spanish brown, a species of earth used in painting, having a dark reddish brown color, due to the presence of sesquioxide of iron.  -- Spanish buckeye (Bot.), a small tree (Ungnadia speciosa) of Texas, New Mexico, etc., related to the buckeye, but having pinnate leaves and a three-seeded fruit.  -- Spanish burton (Naut.), a purchase composed of two single blocks. A double Spanish burton has one double and two single blocks. Luce (Textbook of Seamanship).  -- Spanish chalk (Min.), a kind of steatite; -- so called because obtained from Aragon in Spain.  -- Spanish cress (Bot.), a cruciferous plant (lepidium Cadamines), a species of peppergrass.  -- Spanish curiew (Zoöl.), the long-billed curlew. [U.S.] -- Spanish daggers (Bot.) See Spanish bayonet.  -- Spanish elm (Bot.), a large West Indian tree (Cordia Gerascanthus) furnishing hard and useful timber.  -- Spanish feretto, a rich reddish brown pigment obtained by calcining copper and sulphur together in closed crucibles.  -- Spanish flag (Zoöl.), the California rockfish (Sebastichthys rubrivinctus). It is conspicuously colored with bands of red and white.  -- Spanish fly (Zoöl.), a brilliant green beetle, common in the south of Europe, used for raising blisters. See Blister beetle under Blister, and Cantharis.  -- Spanish fox (Naut.), a yarn twisted against its lay.  -- Spanish grass. (Bot.) See Esparto.  -- Spanish juice (Bot.), licorice.  -- Spanish leather. See Cordwain.  -- Spanish mackerel. (Zoöl.) (a) A species of mackerel (Scomber colias) found both in Europe and America. In America called chub mackerel, big-eyed mackerel, and bull mackerel. (b) In the United States, a handsome mackerel having bright yellow round spots (Scomberomorus maculatus), highly esteemed as a food fish. The name is sometimes erroneously applied to other species. See Illust. under Mackerel.  -- Spanish main, the name formerly given to the southern portion of the Caribbean Sea, together with the contiguous coast, embracing the route traversed by Spanish treasure ships from the New to the Old World.  -- Spanish moss. (Bot.) See Tillandsia.  -- Spanish needles (Bot.), a composite weed (Bidens bipinnata) having achenia armed with needlelike awns.  -- Spanish nut (Bot.), a bulbous plant (Iris Sisyrinchium) of the south of Europe.  -- Spanish potato (Bot.), the sweet potato. See under Potato.  -- Spanish red, an ocherous red pigment resembling Venetian red, but slightly yellower and warmer. Fairholt.  -- Spanish reef (Naut.), a knot tied in the head of a jib-headed sail.  -- Spanish sheep (Zoöl.), a merino.  -- Spanish white, an impalpable powder prepared from chalk by pulverizing and repeated washings, -- used as a white pigment.  -- Spanish windlass (Naut.), a wooden roller, with a rope wound about it, into which a marline spike is thrust to serve as a lever. 

SPANISH:  The language of Spain. 

SPANK:  To strike, as the breech, with the open hand; to slap. 

SPANK:  A blow with the open hand; a slap. 

SPANK:  To move with a quick, lively step between a trot and gallop; to move quickly. Thackeray. 

SPANKER:  The after sail of a ship or bark, being a fore-and-aft sail attached to a boom and gaff; -- sometimes called driver. See Illust. under Sail. Totten.  3. One who takes long, quick strides in walking; also, a fast horse. [Colloq.]  4. Something very large, or larger than common; a whopper, as a stout or tall person. [Colloq.] Spanker boom (Naut.), a boom to which a spanker sail is attached. See Illust. of Ship. 

SPANKER:  A small coin. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SPANKING:  a strong breeze. 

SPANLESS:  Incapable of being spanned. 

SPANNER:  A contrivance in some of the ealier steam engines for moving the valves for the alternate admission and shutting off of the steam.  SPAN-NEW Span"-new`, a. Etym: [Icel. spann, properly, new as a ship just split; spann chip + n new. See Spoon, and New.]  Quite new; brand-new; fire-new. "A span-new archbishop's chair." Fuller. 

SPANNISHING:  The full blooming of a flower. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

SPANPIECE:  The collar of a roof; sparpiece. 

SPANWORM:  The larva of any geometrid moth, as the cankeworm; a geometer; a measuring worm. 

SPAR:  An old name for a nonmetallic mineral, usually cleavable and somewhat lustrous; as, calc spar, or calcite, fluor spar, etc. It was especially used in the case of the gangue minerals of a metalliferous vein. Blue spar, Cube spar, etc. See under Blue, Cube, etc. 

SPAR:  A general term any round piece of timber used as a mast, yard, boom, or gaff.  2. (Arch.)  Formerly, a piece of timber, in a general sense; -- still applied locally to rafters.  3. The bar of a gate or door. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spar buoy (Naut.), a buoy anchored by one end so that the other end rises above the surface of the water.  -- Spar deck (Naut.), the upper deck of a vessel; especially, in a frigate, the deck which is continued in a straight line from the quarter-deck to the forecastle, and on which spare spars are usually placed. See under Deck.  -- Spar torpedo (Naut.), a torpedo carried on the end of a spar usually projecting from the bow of a vessel, and intended to explode upon contact with an enemy's ships. 

SPARABLE:  A kind of small nail used by shoemakers. 

SPARADA:  A small California surf fish (Micrometrus aggregatus); -- called also shiner. 

SPARADRAP:  Any adhesive plaster.  SPARAGE; SPARAGUS; SPARAGRASS Spar"age, Spar"a*gus, Spar"a*grass`, n.  Obs. or corrupt forms of Asparagus. 

SPARBLE:  To scatter; to disperse; to rout. [Obs.] The king's host was sparbled and chased. Fabyan. 

SPARE:  The right of bowling again at a full set of pins, after having knocked all the pins down in less than three bowls. If all the pins are knocked down in one bowl it is a double spare; in two bowls, a single spare. 

SPAREFUL:  Sparing; chary. [Obs.] Fairfax.  -- Spare"ful*ness, n. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

SPARELESS:  Unsparing. Sylvester. 

SPARELY:  In a spare manner; sparingly. 

SPARENESS:  The quality or state of being lean or thin; leanness. 

SPARER:  One who spares. 

SPARERIB:  A piece of pork, consisting or ribs with little flesh on them. 

SPARGE:  To sprinkle; to moisten by sprinkling; as, to sparge paper. 

SPARGEFACTION:  The act of sprinkling. [Obs.] Swift. 

SPARGER:  A vessel with a perforated cover, for sprinkling with a liquid; a sprinkler. 

SPARHAWK:  The sparrow hawk. [Prov. Eng.]  SPAR-HUNG Spar"-hung`, a.  Hung with spar, as a cave. 

SPARING:  Spare; saving; frugal; merciful. Bacon.  -- Spar"ing*ly, adv.  -- Spar"ing*ness, n. 

SPARK:  To sparkle. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SPARK:  To play the spark, beau, or lover. A sure sign that his master was courting, or, as it is termed, sparking, within. W. Irwing.  SPARK COIL Spark coil. (Elec.)  (a) An induction coil, esp. of an internal-combustion engine, wireless telegraph apparatus, etc.  (b) A self-induction coil used to increase the spark in an electric gas-lighting apparatus. 

SPARKER:  A spark arrester. 

SPARKFUL:  Lively; brisk; gay. [Obs.] "Our sparkful youth." Camden.  SPARK GAP Spark gap. (Elec.)  The space filled with air or other dielectric between high potential terminals (as of an electrostatic machine, induction coil, or condenser), through which the discharge passes; the air gap of a jump spark. 

SPARKLE:  To emit in the form or likeness of sparks. "Did sparkle forth great light." Spenser. 

SPARKLER:  One who scatters; esp., one who scatters money; an improvident person. [Obs.] 

SPARKLER:  One who, or that which, sparkles. 

SPARKLER:  A tiger beetle. 

SPARKLET:  A small spark. [Obs.] 

SPARKLINESS:  Vivacity. [Obs.] Aubrey. 

SPARKLING:  Emitting sparks; glittering; flashing; brilliant; lively; as, sparkling wine; sparkling eyes.  -- Spar"kling*ly, adv.  -- Spar"kling*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Brilliant; shining. See Shining.  SPARK PLUG Spark plug.  In internal-combustion engines with electric ignition, a plug, screwed into the cylinder head, having through it an insulated wire which is connected with the induction coil or magneto circuit on the outside, and forms, with another terminal on the base of the plug, a spark gap inside the cylinder. 

SPARLYRE:  The calf of the leg. [Obs.] Wyclif (Deut. xxviii. 35). 

SPAROID:  of or pertaining to the Sparidæ, a family of spinous-finned fishes which includes the scup, sheepshead, and sea bream.  -- n.  One of the Sparidæ. 

SPARPIECE:  The collar beam of a roof; the spanpiece. Gwilt. 

SPARPOIL:  To scatter; to spread; to disperse. [Obs.] 

SPARROW:  One of many species of small singing birds of the family Fringilligæ, having conical bills, and feeding chiefly on seeds. Many sparrows are called also finches, and buntings. The common sparrow, or house sparrow, of Europe (Passer domesticus) is noted for its familiarity, its voracity, its attachment to its young, and its fecundity. See House sparrow, under House.  Note: The following American species are well known; the chipping sparrow, or chippy, the sage sparrow, the savanna sparrow, the song sparrow, the tree sparrow, and the white-throated sparrow (see Peabody bird). See these terms under Sage, Savanna, etc.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several small singing birds somewhat resembling the true sparrows in form or habits, as the European hedge sparrow. See under Hedge. He that doth the ravens feed, Yea, providently caters for the sparrow, Be comfort to my age! Shak. Field sparrow, Fox sparrow, etc. See under Field, Fox, etc.  -- Sparrow bill, a small nail; a castiron shoe nail; a sparable.  -- Sparrow hawk. (Zoöl.) (a) A small European hawk (Accipiter nisus) or any of the allied species. (b) A small American falcon (Falco sparverius). (c) The Australian collared sparrow hawk (Accipiter torquatus).  Note: The name is applied to other small hawks, as the European kestrel and the New Zealand quail hawk.  -- Sparrow owl (Zoöl.), a small owl (Glaucidium passerinum) found both in the Old World and the New. The name is also applied to other species of small owls.  -- Sparrow spear (Zoöl.), the female of the reed bunting. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPARROWGRASS:  Asparagus. [Colloq.] See the Note under Asparagus. 

SPARROWWORT:  An evergreen shrub of the genus Erica (E. passerina). 

SPARRY:  Resembling spar, or consisting of spar; abounding with spar; having a confused crystalline structure; spathose. Sparry iron (Min.), siderite. See Siderite (a).  -- Sparry limestone (Min.), a coarsely crystalline marble. 

SPARSE:  Placed irregularly and distantly; scattered; -- applied to branches, leaves, peduncles, and the like. 

SPARSE:  To scatter; to disperse. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SPARSEDLY:  Sparsely. [Obs.] 

SPARSELY:  In a scattered or sparse manner. 

SPARSENESS:  The quality or state of being sparse; as, sparseness of population. 

SPARSIM:  Sparsely; scatteredly; here and there. 

SPARTAN:  of or pertaining to Sparta, especially to ancient Sparta; hence, hardy; undaunted; as, Spartan souls; Spartan bravey.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Sparta; figuratively, a person of great courage and fortitude. 

SPARTEINE:  A narcotic alkaloid extracted from the tops of the common broom (Cytisus scoparius, formerly Spartium scoparium), as a colorless oily liquid of aniline-like odor and very bitter taste. 

SPARTERIE:  Articles made of the blades or fiber of the Lygeum Spartum and Stipa (or Macrochloa) tenacissima, kinds of grass used in Spain and other countries for making ropes, mats, baskets, nets, and mattresses. Loudon. 

SPARTH:  An Anglo-Saxon battle-ax, or halberd. [Obs.] He hath a sparth of twenty pound of weight. Chaucer. 

SPARVE:  The hedge sparrow. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPARY:  Sparing; parsimonious. [Obs.] 

SPASM:  An involuntary and unnatural contraction of one or more muscles or muscular fibers.  Note: Spasm are usually either clonic or tonic. In clonic spasm, the muscles or muscular fibers contract and relax alternately in very quick succession. In tonic spasm, the contraction is steady and uniform, and continues for a comparatively long time, as in tetanus.  2. A sudden, violent, and temporary effort or emotion; as, a spasm of repentance. Cynic spasm (Med.) See under Cynic.  -- Spasm of the chest. See Angina pectoris, under Angina. 

SPASMATICAL:  Spasmodic. [Obs.] 

SPASMODIC:  Of or pertaining to spasm; consisting in spasm; occuring in, or characterized by, spasms; as, a spasmodic asthma.  2. Soon relaxed or exhausted; convulsive; intermittent; as, spasmodic zeal or industry. Spasmodic croup (Med.), an affection of childhood characterized by a stoppage of brathing developed suddenly and without fever, and produced by spasmodic contraction of the vocal cords. It is sometimes fatal. Called also laryngismus stridulus, and childcrowing.  -- Spasmodic stricture, a stricture caused by muscular spasm without structural change. See Organic stricture, under Organic. 

SPASMODIC:  A medicine for spasm. 

SPASMODICAL:  Same as Spasmodic, a.  -- Spas*mod"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SPASTIC:  Of or pertaining to spasm; spasmodic; especially, pertaining to tonic spasm; tetanic. 

SPASTICALLY:  Spasmodically. 

SPAT:  imp. of Spit. [Obs. or R.] 

SPAT:  A young oyster or other bivalve mollusk, both before and after it first becomes adherent, or such young, collectively. 

SPAT:  To emit spawn; to emit, as spawn. 

SPAT:  To dispute. [R.] Smart. 

SPAT:  To slap, as with the open hand; to clap together; as the hands. [Local, U.S.] Little Isabel leaped up and down, spatting her hands. Judd. 

SPATANGOID:  Of or pertaining to the Spatangoidea.  -- n.  One of the Spatangoidea. 

SPATANGOIDEA:  An order of irregular sea urchins, usually having a more or less heart-shaped shell with four or five petal-like ambulacra above. The mouth is edentulous and situated anteriorly, on the under side. 

SPATANGUS:  A genus of heart-shaped sea urchins belonging to the Spatangoidea. 

SPATCHCOCK:  See Spitchcock. 

SPATE:  A river flood; an overflow or inundation. Burns. Gareth in a showerful spring Stared at the spate. Tennyson. 

SPATHA:  A spathe. 

SPATHACEOUS:  Having a spathe; resembling a spathe; spathal. 

SPATHAL:  Furnished with a spathe; as, spathal flowers. Howitt. 

SPATHE:  A special involucre formed of one leaf and inclosing a spadix, as in aroid plants and palms. See the Note under Bract, and Illust. of Spadix.  Note: The name is also given to the several-leaved involucre of the iris and other similar plants. 

SPATHED:  Having a spathe or calyx like a sheath. 

SPATHIC:  Like spar; foliated or lamellar; spathose. Spathic iron (Min.), siderite. See Siderite (a). 

SPATHIFORM:  Resembling spar in form. "The ocherous, spathiform, and mineralized forms of uranite." Lavoisier (Trans.). 

SPATHOSE:  See Spathic. 

SPATHOSE:  Having a spathe; resembling a spathe; spatheceous; spathal. 

SPATHOUS:  Spathose. 

SPATHULATE:  See Spatulate. 

SPATIAL:  Of or pertaining to space. "Spatial quantity and relations." L. H. Atwater. 

SPATIALLY:  As regards space. 

SPATIATE:  To rove; to ramble. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SPATTER:  To throw something out of the mouth in a scattering manner; to sputter. That mind must needs be irrecoverably depraved, which, . . . tasting but once of one just deed, spatters at it, and abhors the relish ever after. Milton. 

SPATTERDASHED:  Wearing spatterdashes. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

SPATTERDASHES:  Coverings for the legs, to protect them from water and mud; long gaiters.  SPATTER-DOCK Spat`ter-dock`, n. (Bot.)  The common yellow water lily (Nuphar advena). 

SPATTLE:  Spawl; spittle. [Obs.] Bale. 

SPATTLE:  A tool or implement for mottling a molded article with coloring matter Knoght.  SPATTLING-POPPY Spat"tling-pop"py, n. Etym: [Prov. E. spattle to spit + E. poppy.] (Bot.)  A kind of catchfly (Silene inflata) which is sometimes frothy from the action of captured insects. 

SPATULA:  An implement shaped like a knife, flat, thin, and somewhat flexible, used for spreading paints, fine plasters, drugs in compounding prescriptions, etc. Cf. Palette knife, under Palette. 

SPATULATE:  Shaped like spatula, or like a battledoor, being roundish, with a long, narrow, linear base. [Also written spathulate.] 

SPAULD:  The shoulder. [Scot.] 

SPAVIN:  A disease of horses characterized by a bony swelling developed on the hock as the result of inflammation of the bones; also, the swelling itself. The resulting lameness is due to the inflammation, and not the bony tumor as popularly supposed. Harbaugh. Bog spavin, a soft swelling produced by distention of the capsular ligament of the hock; -- called also blood spavin.  -- Bone spavin, spavin attended with exostosis; ordinary spavin. 

SPAVINED:  Affected with spavin. 

SPAW:  See Spa. 

SPAWL:  A splinter or fragment, as of wood or stone. See Spall. 

SPAWL:  Scattered or ejected spittle. 

SPAWL:  To scatter spittle from the mouth; to spit, as saliva. Why must he sputter, spawl, and slaver it In vain, against the people's favorite. Swift. 

SPAWLING:  That which is spawled, or spit out. 

SPAWN:  The buds or branches produced from underground stems.  4. (Bot.)  The white fibrous matter forming the matrix from which fungi. Spawn eater (Zoöl.), a small American cyprinoid fish (Notropis Hudsonius) allied to the dace. 

SPAWNER:  A mature female fish. The barbel, for the preservation or their seed, both the spawner and the milter, cover their spawn with sand. Walton.  2. Whatever produces spawn of any kind. 

SPAY:  To remove or extirpate the ovaries of, as a sow or a bitch; to castrate (a female animal). 

SPAY:  The male of the red deer in his third year; a spade.  SPAYAD; SPAYADE Spay"ad, Spay"ade, n. (Zoöl.)  A spay. 

SPEAKERSHIP:  The office of speaker; as, the speakership of the House of Representatives. 

SPEAR:  To pierce with a spear; to kill with a spear; as, to spear a fish. 

SPEAR:  To shoot into a long stem, as some plants. See Spire. Mortimer. 

SPEARER:  One who uses a spear; as, a spearer of fish. 

SPEARHEAD:  The pointed head, or end, of a spear. 

SPEARMAN:  One who is armed with a spear. Acts xxiii. 23. 

SPEARMINT:  A species of mint (Mentha viridis) growing in moist soil. It vields an aromatic oil. See Mint, and Mentha. 

SPEARWOOD:  An Australian tree (Acacia Doratoxylon), and its tough wood, used by the natives for spears. 

SPEARWORT:  A name given to several species of crowfoot (Ranunculus) which have spear-shaped leaves. 

SPEARY:  Having the form of a spear. 

SPECE:  Species; kind. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SPECHT:  A woodpecker. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Sherwood. 

SPECIALISM:  Devotion to a particular and restricted part or branch of knowledge, art, or science; as, medical specialism. 

SPECIALIST:  One who devotes himself to some specialty; as, a medical specialist, one who devotes himself to diseases of particular parts of the body, as the eye, the ear, the nerves, etc. 

SPECIALITY:  See Specialty, 3.  3. The special or peculiar mark or characteristic of a person or thing; that for which a person is specially distinguished; an object of special attention; a special occupation or object of attention; a specialty. On these two general heads all other specialities are depedent. Hooker. Strive, while improving your one talent, to enrich your whole capital as a man. It is in this way that you escape from the wretched narrow- mindedness which is the characteristic of every one who cultivates his speciality. Ld. Lytton. We 'll say, instead, the inconsequent creature man, -For that'a his speciality. Mrs. Browning. Think of this, sir, . . . remote from the impulses of passion, and apart from the specialities -- if I may use that strong remark -- of prejudice. Dickens.  4. An attribute or quality peculiar to a species. 

SPECIALIZATION:  The setting spart of a particular organ for the performance of a particular function. Darwin. 

SPECIALIZE:  To supply with an organ or organs having a special function or functions. 

SPECIALTY:  A contract or obligation under seal; a contract by deed; a writing, under seal, given as security for a debt particularly specified. Chitty. Bouvier. Wharton (Law Dict.). Let specialties be therefore drawn between us. Shak.  4. That for which a person is distinguished, in which he is specially versed, or which he makes an object of special attention; a speciality. Men of boundless knowledge, like Humbold, must have had once their specialty, their pet subject. C. Kingsley. 

SPECIE:  abl. of L. species sort, kind. Used in the phrase in specie, that is, in sort, in kind, in (its own) form. "[The king] expects a return in specie from them" [i. e., kindness for kindness]. Dryden. In specie (Law), in precise or definite form; specifically; according to the exact terms; of the very thing. 

SPECIE:  Coin; hard money. 

SPECIES:  A group of individuals agreeing in common attributes, and designated by a common name; a conception subordinated to another conception, called a genus, or generic conception, from which it differs in containing or comprehending more attributes, and extending to fewer individuals. Thus, man is a species, under animal as a genus; and man, in its turn, may be regarded as a genus with respect to European, American, or the like, as species.  3. In science, a more or less permanent group of existing things or beings, associated according to attributes, or properties determined by scientific observation.  Note: In mineralogy and chemistry, objects which possess the same definite chemical structure, and are fundamentally the same in crystallization and physical characters, are classed as belonging to a species. In zoölogy and botany, a species is an ideal group of individuals which are believed to have descended from common ancestors, which agree in essential characteristics, and are capable of indefinitely continued fertile reproduction through the sexes. A species, as thus defined, differs from a variety or subspecies only in the greater stability of its characters and in the absence of individuals intermediate between the related groups.  4. A sort; a kind; a variety; as, a species of low cunning; a species of generosity; a species of cloth.  5. Coin, or coined silver, gold, ot other metal, used as a circulating medium; specie. [Obs.] There was, in the splendor of the Roman empire, a less quantity of current species in Europe than there is now. Arbuthnot.  6. A public spectacle or exhibition. [Obs.] Bacon.  7. (Pharmacy) (a) A component part of compound medicine; a simple. (b) (Med.) An officinal mixture or compound powder of any kind; esp., one used for making an aromatic tea or tisane; a tea mixture. Quincy.  8. (Civil Law)  The form or shape given to materials; fashion or shape; form; figure. Burill. Incipient species (Zoöl.), a subspecies, or variety, which is in process of becoming permanent, and thus changing to a true species, usually by isolation in localities from which other varieties are excluded. 

SPECIFIABLE:  Admitting specification; capable of being specified. 

SPECIFIC:  Exerting a peculiar influence over any part of the body; preventing or curing disease by a peculiar adaption, and not on general principles; as, quinine is a specific medicine in cases of malaria. In fact, all medicines will be found specific in the perfection of the science. Coleridge. Specific character (Nat. Hist.), a characteristic or characteristics distinguishing one species from every other species of the same genus.  -- Specific disease (Med.) (a) A disease which produces a determinate definite effect upon the blood and tissues or upon some special tissue. (b) A disease which is itself uniformly produced by a definite and peculiar poison or organism.  -- Specific duty. (Com.) See under Duty.  -- Specific gravity. (Physics) See under Gravity.  -- Specific heat (Physics), the quantity of heat required to raise temperature of a body one degree, taking as the unit of measure the quantity required to raise the same weight of water from zero to one degree; thus, the specific heat of mercury is 0.033, that of water being 1.000.  -- Specific inductive capacity (Physics), the effect of a dielectric body in producing static electric induction as compared with that of some other body or bodies referred to as a standard.  -- Specific legacy (Law), a bequest of a particular thing, as of a particular animal or piece of furniture, specified and distinguished from all others. Wharton. Burrill.  -- Specific name (Nat., Hist.), the name which, appended to the name of the genus, constitutes the distinctive name of the species; -- originally applied by Linnæus to the essential character of the species, or the essential difference. The present specific name he at first called the trivial name.  -- Specific performance (Law), the peformance of a contract or agreement as decreed by a court of equity. 

SPECIFIC:  A specific remedy. See Specific, a., 3. His parents were weak enough to believe that the royal touch was a specific for this malady. Macaulay.  2. Anything having peculiar adaption to the purpose to which it is applied. Dr. H. More. 

SPECIFICAL:  Specific. Bacon. 

SPECIFICALLY:  In a specific manner. 

SPECIFICALNESS:  The quality of being specific. 

SPECIFICATE:  To show, mark, or designate the species, or the distinguishing particulars of; to specify. [Obs.] ir M. Hale. 

SPECIFICNESS:  The quality or state of being specific. 

SPECIFY:  To mention or name, as a particular thing; to designate in words so as to distinguish from other things; as, to specify the uses of a plant; to specify articles purchased. He has there given us an exact geography of Greece, where the countries and the uses of their soils are specified. Pope. 

SPECILLUM:  See Stylet, 2. 

SPECIMEN:  A part, or small portion, of anything, or one of a number of things, intended to exhibit the kind and quality of the whole, or of what is not exhibited; a sample; as, a specimen of a man's handwriting; a specimen of painting; aspecimen of one's art.  Syn.  -- Sample; model; pattern.  -- Specimen, Sample. A specimen is a representative of the class of things to which it belongs; as, a specimen of photography. A sample is a part of the thing itself, designed to show the quality of the whole; as, a sample of sugar or of broadcloth. A cabinet of minerals consists of specimens; if a part be broken off from any one of these, it is a sample of the mineral to which it belongs. "Several persons have exhibited specimens of this art before multitudes of beholders." Addison. "I design this but for a sample of what I hope more fully to discuss." Woodward. 

SPECK:  The blubber of whales or other marine mammals; also, the fat of the hippopotamus. Speck falls (Naut.), falls or ropes rove through blocks for hoisting the blubber and bone of whales on board a whaling vessel. 

SPECK:  A small etheostomoid fish (Ulocentra stigmæa) common in the Eastern United States. 

SPECK:  To cause the presence of specks upon or in, especially specks regarded as defects or blemishes; to spot; to speckle; as, paper specked by impurities in the water used in its manufacture. Carnation, purple, azure, or specked with gold. Milton. 

SPECKLE:  A little or spot in or anything, of a different substance or color from that of the thing itself. An huge great serpent, all with speckles pied. Spebser. 

SPECKLE:  To mark with small spots of a different color from that of the rest of the surface; to variegate with spots of a different color from the ground or surface. 

SPECKLED:  Marked or variegated with small spots of a different color from that of the rest of the surface. Speckled Indians (Ethnol.), the Pintos.  -- Speckled trout. (Zoöl.) (a) The common American brook trout. See Trout. (b) The rainbow trout.  SPECKLED-BELLY Spec"kled-bel`ly, n. (Zoöl.)  The gadwall. [Local, U.S.]  SPECKLED-BILL Spec"kled-bill", n. (Zoöl.)  The American white-fronted goose (Anser albifrons). 

SPECKLEDNESS:  The quality of being speckled. 

SPECKSIONEER:  The chief harpooner, who also directs in cutting up the speck, or blubber; -- so called among whalers. 

SPECKT:  A woodpecker. See Speight. 

SPECTACLE:  An optical instrument consisting of two lenses set in a light frame, and worn to assist sight, to obviate some defect in the organs of vision, or to shield the eyes from bright light.  4. pl.  Fig.: An aid to the intellectual sight. Shakespeare . . . needed not the spectacles of books to read nature. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Show; sight; exhibition; representation; pageant. 

SPECTACLED:  Having the eyes surrounded by color markings, or patches of naked skin, resembling spectacles. Spectacled bear (Zoöl.), a South American bear (Tremarclos ornatus) which inhabits the high mountains of Chili and Peru. It has a light-colored ring around each eye.  -- Spectacled coot, or Spectacled duck (Zoöl.), the surf scoter, or surf duck. [Local, U.S.] -- Spectacled eider (Zoöl.) See Eider.  -- Spectacled goose (Zoöl.), the gannet.  -- Spectacled snake (Zoöl.), the cobra de capello. 

SPECTANT:  Looking forward. 

SPECTATION:  Regard; aspect; appearance. Harvey. 

SPECTATOR:  One who on; one who sees or beholds; a beholder; one who is personally present at, and sees, any exhibition; as, the spectators at a show. "Devised and played to take spectators." Shak.  Syn.  -- Looker-on; beholder; observer; witness. 

SPECTATORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a spectator. Addison. 

SPECTATORSHIP:  A female beholder or looker-on. "A spectatress of the whole scene." Jeffrey.  SPECTER; SPECTRE Spec"ter, Spec"tre, n. Etym: [F. spectre, fr. L. spectrum an appearance, image, specter, fr. specere to look. See Spy, and cf. Spectrum.]  1. Something preternaturally visible; an apparition; a ghost; a phantom. The ghosts of traitors from the bridge descend, With bold fanatic specters to rejoice. Dryden.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The tarsius. (b) A stick insect. Specter bat (Zoöl.), any phyllostome bat.  -- Specter candle (Zoöl.), a belemnite.  -- Specter shrimp (Zoöl.), a skeleton shrimp. See under Skeleton. 

SPECTIONEER:  Same as Specsioneer. 

SPECTRAL:  Of or pertaining to the spectrum; made by the spectrum; as, spectral colors; spectral analysis. Spectral lemur. (Zoöl.) See Tarsius. 

SPECTRALLY:  In the form or manner of a specter. 

SPECTRE:  See Specter. 

SPECTROBOLOMETER:  A combination of spectroscope and bolometer for determining the distribution of energy in a spectrum. --Spec`tro*bo`lo*met"ric (#), a. 

SPECTROELECTRIC:  Pert. to or designating any form of spark tube the electric discharge within which is used in spectroscopic observations. 

SPECTROGRAM:  A photograph, map, or diagram of a spectrum. 

SPECTROHELIOGRAM:  A photograph of the sun made by monochromatic light, usually of the calcium line (k), and showing the sun's faculæ and prominences. 

SPECTROHELIOGRAPH:  An apparatus for making spectroheliograms, consisting of a spectroscopic camera used in combination with a telescope, and provided with clockwork for moving the  sun's image across the slit. -- Spec`tro*he`li*o*graph"ic (#), a. 

SPECTROLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to spectrology; as, spectrological studies or experiments.  -- Spec`tro*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SPECTROLOGY:  The science of spectrum analysis in any or all of its relations and applications. 

SPECTROMETER:  A spectroscope fitted for measurements of the luminious spectra observed with it. 

SPECTROMETRY:  Art or process of using the spectrometer, or of measuring wave lengths of rays of a spectrum. -- Spec`tro*met"ric (#), a. 

SPECTROPHONE:  An instrument constructed on the principle of the photophone and used in spectrum analysis as an adjunct to the spectroscope. -- Spec`tro*phon"ic (#), a. 

SPECTROPHOTOMETER:  An instrument for measuring or comparing the intensites of the colors of the spectrum. 

SPECTROPHOTOMETRY:  The art of comparing, photometrically, the brightness of two spectra, wave length by wave length; the use of the spectrophotometer. --Spec`tro*pho`to*met"ric (#), a. 

SPECTROSCOPE:  An optical instrument for forming and examining spectra (as that of solar light, or those produced by flames in which different substances are volatilized), so as to determine, from the position of the spectral lines, the composition of the substance.  SPECTROSCOPIC; SPECTROSCOPICAL Spec`tro*scop"ic, Spec`tro*scop"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to a spectroscope, or spectroscopy.  -- Spec`tro*scop"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SPECTROSCOPIST:  One who investigates by means of a spectroscope; one skilled in the use of the spectroscope. 

SPECTROSCOPY:  The use of the spectroscope; investigations made with the spectroscope. 

SPECULAR:  Of or pertaining to a speculum; conducted with the aid of a speculum; as, a specular examination.  3. Assisting sight, as a lens or the like. [Obs.] Thy specular orb Apply to well-dissected kernels; lo! In each observe the slender threads Of first-beginning trees. J. Philips.  4. Affording view. [R.] "Look once more, ere we leave this specular mount." Milton. Specular iron. (Min.) See Hematite. 

SPECULATE:  To view subjects from certain premises given or assumed, and infer conclusions respecting them a priori.  3. (Com.)  To purchase with the expectation of a contingent advance in value, and a consequent sale at a profit; -- often, in a somewhat depreciative sense, of unsound or hazardous transactions; as, to speculate in coffee, in sugar, or in bank stock. 

SPECULATE:  To consider attentively; as, to speculate the nature of a thing. [R.] Sir W. Hamilton. 

SPECULATION:  The act or process of reasoning a priori from premises given or assumed. (d) (Com.) The act or practice of buying land, goods, shares, etc., in expectation of selling at a higher price, or of selling with the expectation of repurchasing at a lower price; a trading on anticipated fluctuations in price, as distinguished from trading in which the profit expected is the difference between the retail and wholesale prices, or the difference of price in different markets. 1 year) is considered investment. Sudden fortunes, indeed, are sometimes made in such places, by what is called the trade of speculation. A. Smith. Speculation, while confined within moderate limits, is the agent for equalizing supply and demand, and rendering the fluctuations of price less sudden and abrupt than they would otherwise be. F. A. Walker.  (e) Any business venture in involving unusual risks, with a chance for large profits.  2. A conclusion to which the mind comes by speculating; mere theory; view; notion; conjecture. From him Socrates derived the principles of morality, and most part of his natural speculations. Sir W. temple. To his speculations on these subjects he gave the lofty name of the "Oracles of Reason." Macaulay.  3. Power of sight. [Obs.] Thou hast no speculation in those eyes. Shak.  4. A game at cards in which the players buy from one another trumps or whole hands, upon a chance of getting the highest trump dealt, which entitles the holder to the pool of stakes. 

SPECULATIST:  One who speculates, or forms theories; a speculator; a theorist. The very ingenious speculatist, Mr. Hume. V. Knox. 

SPECULATOR:  One who speculates. Specifically: (a) An observer; a contemplator; hence, a spy; a watcher. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. (b) One who forms theories; a theorist. A speculator who had dared to affirm that the human soul is by nature mortal. Macaulay. (c) (Com.)  One who engages in speculation; one who buys and sells goods, land, etc., with the expectation of deriving profit from fluctuations in price. 

SPECULATORIAL:  Speculatory; speculative. [Obs.] 

SPECULIST:  One who observes or considers; an observer. [R.] Goldsmith. 

SPECULUM:  An instrument for dilating certain passages of the body, and throwing light within them, thus facilitating examination or surgical operations.  4. (Zoöl.)  A bright and lustrous patch of color found on the wings of ducks and some other birds. It is usually situated on the distal portions of the secondary quills, and is much more brilliant in the adult male than in the female. Speculum metal, a hard, brittle alloy used for making the reflectors of telescopes and other instruments, usually consisting of copper and tin in various proportions, one of the best being that in which there are 126.4 parts of copper to 58.9 parts of tin, with sometimes a small proportion of arsenic, antimony, or zinc added to improve the whiteness. 

SPED:  imp. & p. p. of Speed. 

SPEECE:  Species; sort. [Obs.] 

SPEECH:  To make a speech; to harangue. [R.] 

SPEECHFUL:  Full of speech or words; voluble; loquacious. [R.] 

SPEECHIFICATION:  The act of speechifying. [Used humorously or in contempt.] 

SPEECHIFIER:  One who makes a speech or speeches; an orator; a declaimer. [Used humorously or in contempt.] G. Eliot. 

SPEECHIFY:  To make a speech; to harangue. [Used derisively or humorously.] 

SPEECHIFYING:  The act of making a speech or speeches. [Used derisively or humorously.] The dinner and speechifying . . . at the opening of the annual season for the buckhounds. M. Arnold. 

SPEECHING:  The act of making a speech. [R.] 

SPEECHMAKER:  One who makes speeches; one accustomed to speak in a public assembly. 

SPEED:  A device for automatically counting the revolutions or pulsations of an engine or other machine; -- called also simply counter. 

SPEEDER:  A machine for drawing and twisting slivers to form rovings. 

SPEEDFUL:  Full of speed (in any sense). [Obs.] 

SPEEDFULLY:  In a speedful manner. [Obs.] 

SPEEDILY:  In a speedy manner. 

SPEEDINESS:  The quality or state of being speedy. 

SPEEDLESS:  Being without speed. 

SPEEDWELL:  Any plant of the genus Veronica, mostly low herbs with pale blue corollas, which quickly fall off. 

SPEEDY:  Not dilatory or slow; quick; swift; nimble; hasty; rapid in motion or performance; as, a speedy flight; on speedy foot. I will wish her speedy strength. Shak. Darts, which not the good could shun, The speedy ould outfly. Dryden. 

SPEER:  A sphere. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SPEER:  To ask. [Scot.] See Spere. 

SPEET:  To stab. [Obs.] Gammer Gurton's Needle. 

SPEIGHT:  A woodpecker; -- called also specht, spekt, spight. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SPEIR:  To ask. See Spere. Sir W. Scott. 

SPEISKOBALT:  Smaltite. 

SPEISS:  A regulus consisting essentially of nickel, obtained as a residue in fusing cobalt and nickel ores with silica and sodium carbonate to make smalt. 

SPEKBOOM:  The purslane tree of South Africa, -- said to be the favorite food of elephants. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

SPEKE:  To speak. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SPEKEHOUSE:  The parlor or reception room of a convent. [Obs.] 

SPELDING:  A haddock or other small fish split open and dried in the sun; -- called also speldron. [Scot.] 

SPELICANS:  See Spilikin. 

SPELK:  A small stick or rod used as a spike in thatching; a splinter. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

SPELL:  A spelk, or splinter. [Obs.] Holland. 

SPELL:  To supply the place of for a time; to take the turn of, at work; to relieve; as, to spell the helmsman. 

SPELLABLE:  Capable of being spelt. Carlyle. 

SPELLBIND:  To bind or hold by, or as if by, a spell or charm; to fascinate, esp. by eloquence of speech, as in a political campaign. - - Spell"bind`er (#), n. 

SPELLBOUND:  Bound by, or as by, a spell. 

SPELLFUL:  Abounding in spells, or charms. Here, while his eyes the learned leaves peruse, Each spellful mystery explained he views. Hoole. 

SPELLING:  The act of one who spells; formation of words by letters; orthography. 

SPELLING:  Of or pertaining to spelling. Spelling bee, a spelling match. [U.S.] -- Spelling book, a book with exercises for teaching children to spell; a speller.  -- Spelling match, a contest of skill in spelling words, between two or more persons. 

SPELLKEN:  A theater. [Slang] Byron. 

SPELLWORK:  Power or effect of magic; that which is wrought by magic; enchantment. Like those Peri isles of light That hang by spellwork in the air. Moore. 

SPELT:  imp. & p. p. of Spell. Spelled. 

SPELT:  A species of grain (Triticum Spelta) much cultivated for food in Germany and Switzerland; -- called also German wheat. 

SPELT:  Spelter. [Colloq.] 

SPELT:  To split; to break; to spalt. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

SPELTER:  Zinc; -- especially so called in commerce and arts. 

SPELUNC:  A cavern; a cave. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

SPENCER:  One who has the care of the spence, or buttery. [Obs.] Promptorium Parvulorum. 

SPENCER:  A short jacket worn by men and by women. Ld. Lutton. 

SPENCER:  A fore-and-aft sail, abaft the foremast or the mainmast, hoisted upon a small supplementary mast and set with a gaff and no boom; a trysail carried at the foremast or mainmast; -- named after its inventor, Knight Spencer, of England [1802]. Spencer mast, a small mast just abaft the foremast or mainmast, for hoisting the spencer. R. H. Dana, Jr. 

SPEND:  To break ground; to continue working. 

SPENDER:  One who spends; esp., one who spends lavishly; a prodigal; a spendthrift. 

SPENDING:  The act of expending; expenditure. Spending money, money set apart for extra (not necessary) personal expenses; pocket money. [Colloq.] 

SPENDTHRIFT:  One who spends money profusely or improvidently; a prodigal; one who lavishes or wastes his estate. Also used figuratively. A woman who was a generous spendthrift of life. Mrs. R. H. Davis. 

SPENDTHRIFT:  Prodigal; extravagant; wasteful. 

SPENDTHRIFTY:  Spendthrift; prodigal. [R.] 

SPENSERIAN:  Of or pertaining to the English poet Spenser; -- specifically applied to the stanza used in his poem "The Faërie Queene." 

SPENT:  Exhausted of spawn or sperm; -- said especially of fishes. Spent ball, a ball shot from a firearm, which reaches an object without having sufficient force to penetrate it.  SPER; SPERRE Sper, Sperre, v. t. Etym: [See Spar bar.]  To shut in; to support; to inclose; to fasten. [Obs.] "To sperre the gate." Spenser. 

SPERABLE:  Within the range of hpe; proper to be hoped for. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SPERABLE:  See Sperable. 

SPERAGE:  Asperagus. [Obs.] Sylvester. 

SPERATE:  Hoped for, or to be hoped for. [R.] Bouvier. 

SPERE:  To search; to pry; to ask; to inquire. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] [Written also speer, speir.] Jamieson. 

SPERE:  A sphere. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SPERGE:  A charge of wash for the still. Knight. 

SPERM:  The male fecundating fluid; semen. See Semen. Sperm cell (Physiol.), one of the cells from which the spermatozoids are developed.  -- Sperm morula. (Biol.) Same as Spermosphere. 

SPERM:  Spermaceti. Sperm oil, a fatty oil found as a liquid, with spermaceti, in the head cavities of the sperm whale.  -- Sperm whale. (Zoöl.) See in the Vocabulary. 

SPERMACETI:  A white waxy substance obtained from cavities in the head of the sperm whale, and used making candles, oilments, cosmetics, etc. It consists essentially of ethereal salts of palmitic acid with ethal and other hydrocarbon bases. The substance of spermaceti after the removal of certain impurities is sometimes called cetin. Spermaceti whale (Zoöl.), the sperm whale. 

SPERMALIST:  See Spermist. 

SPERMAPHORE:  That part of the ovary from which the ovules arise; the placenta. 

SPERMARY:  An organ in which spermatozoa are developed; a sperm gland; a testicle. 

SPERMATHECA:  A small sac connected with the female reproductive organs of insects and many other invertebrates, serving to receive and retain the spermatozoa. 

SPERMATIC:  Of or pertaining to semen; as, the spermatic fluid, the spermatic vessels, etc. Spermatic cord (Anat.), the cord which suspends the testicle within the scrotum. It is made up of a connective tissue sheath inclosing the spermatic duct and accompanying vessels and nerves. 

SPERMATICAL:  Spermatic. 

SPERMATIN:  A substance allied to alkali albumin and to mucin, present in semen, to which it is said to impart the mucilaginous character. 

SPERMATISM:  The emission of sperm, or semen. 

SPERMATIUM:  One of the motionless spermatozoids in the conceptacles of certain fungi. J. H. Balfour. 

SPERMATIZE:  To yield seed; to emit seed, or sperm. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  SPERMATO-; SPERMO- Sper"ma*to-, Sper"mo-.  Combining forms from Gr. seed, sperm, semen (of plants or animals); as, spermatoblast, spermoblast. 

SPERMATOBLAST:  Same as Spermoblast. 

SPERMATOCYTE:  Same as Spermoblast. 

SPERMATOGEMMA:  Same as Spermosphere. 

SPERMATOGENESIS:  The development of the spermatozoids. 

SPERMATOGENETIC:  Relating to, or connected with, spermatogenesis; as, spermatogenetic function. 

SPERMATOGENOUS:  Sperm-producing. 

SPERMATOGONIUM:  A primitive seminal cell, occuring in masses in the seminal tubules. It divides into a mass (spermosphere) of small cells (spermoblast), which in turn give rise to spermatozoids. 

SPERMATOID:  Spermlike; resembling sperm, or semen.  SPERMATOON; SPERMATOOEN Sper`ma*to"ön, n.; pl. Spermatoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)  A spermoblast.  -- Sper`ma*to"al, a. Owen. 

SPERMATOPHORE:  Same as Spermospore.  2. (Zoöl.)  A capsule or pocket inclosing a number of spermatozoa. They are present in many annelids, brachiopods, mollusks, and crustaceans. In cephalopods the structure of the capsule is very complex. 

SPERMATOPHOROUS:  Producing seed, or sperm; seminiferous; as, the so-called spermatophorous cells. 

SPERMATOPHYTA:  A phylum embracing the highest plants, or those that produce seeds; the  seed plants, or flowering plants. They form the most numerous group, including over 120,000 species. In general, the group is characterized by the marked development of the sporophyte, with great differentiation of its parts (root, stem, leaves, flowers, etc.); by the extreme reduction of the gametophyte; and by the development of seeds. All the Spermatophyta are heterosporous; fertilization of the egg cell is either through a pollen tube emitted by the microspore or (in a few gymnosperms) by spermatozoids. The phrase "flowering plants" is less distinctive than "seed plants," since the conifers, grasses, sedges, oaks, etc., do not produce flowers in the popular sense. For this reason the terms Anthrophyta, Phænogamia, and Panerogamia have been superseded as names of the phylum by Spermatophyta. 

SPERMATOPHYTE:  Any plant of the phylum Spermatophyta. -- Sper`ma*to*phyt"ic (#), a.  SPERMATORRHEA; SPERMATORRHOEA Sper`ma*tor*rhe"a, Sper`ma*tor*rhoe"a, (, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)  Abnormally frequent involuntary emission of the semen without copulation. 

SPERMATOSPORE:  Same as Spermospore. 

SPERMATOZOID:  The male germ cell in animals and plants, the essential element in fertilization; a microscopic animalcule-like particle, usually provided with one or more cilia by which it is capable of active motion. In animals, the familiar type is that of a small, more or less ovoid head, with a delicate threadlike cilium, or tail. Called also spermatozoön. In plants the more usual term is antherozoid. 

SPERMATOZOOID:  A spermatozoid.  SPERMATOZOON; SPERMATOZOOEN Sper`ma*to*zo"ön, n.; pl. Spermatozoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)  Same as Spermatozoid. 

SPERMIC:  Of or pertaining to sperm, or semen. 

SPERMIDIUM:  An achenium. 

SPERMISM:  The theory, formerly held by many, that the sperm or spermatozoön contains the germ of the future embryo; animalculism. 

SPERMIST:  A believer in the doctrine, formerly current, of encasement in the male (see Encasement), in which the seminal thread, or spermatozoid, was considered as the real animal germ, the head being the true animal head and the tail the body. 

SPERMOBLAST:  One of the cells formed by the diivision of the spermospore, each of which is destined to become a spermatozoid; a spermatocyte; a spermatoblast. 

SPERMOCOCCUS:  The nucleus of the sperm cell. 

SPERMODERM:  The covering of a seed; -- sometimes limited to the outer coat or testa. Lindley. 

SPERMOGONIUM:  A conceptacle of certain lichens, which contains spermatia. 

SPERMOLOGIST:  One who treats of, or collects, seeds. Bailey. 

SPERMOPHILE:  Any ground squirrel of the genus Spermophilus; gopher. See Illust. under Gopher. 

SPERMOPHORE:  A spermatophore. 

SPERMOPHYTA:  Plants which produce seed; phænogamia. These plants constitute the highest grand division of the vegetable kingdom. 

SPERMOPHYTE:  Any plant which produces true seeds; -- a term recently proposed to replace phænogam. 

SPERMOPHYTIC:  Capable of producing seeds; phænogamic. 

SPERMOPLASMA:  The protoplasm of the sperm cell. Haeckel. 

SPERMOSPHERE:  A mass or ball of cells formed by the repeated division of a male germinal cell (spermospore), each constituent cell (spermoblast) of which is converted into a spermatozoid; a spermatogemma. 

SPERMOSPORE:  The male germinal or seminal cell, from the breaking up of which the spermoblasts are formed and ultimately the spermatozoids; a spermatospore. Balfour. 

SPERMULE:  A sperm cell. Haeckel.  SPERM WHALE Sperm" whale`. (Zoöl.)  A very large toothed whale (Physeter macrocephalus), having a head of enormous size. The upper jaw is destitute of teeth. In the upper part of the head, above the skull, there is a large cavity, or case, filled with oil and spermaceti. This whale sometimes grows to the length of more than eighty feet. It is found in the warmer parts of all the oceans. Called also cachalot, and spermaceti whale. Pygmy sperm whale (Zoöl.), a small whale (Kogia breviceps), seldom twenty feet long, native of tropical seas, but occasionally found on the American coast. Called also snub-nosed cachalot.  -- Sperm-whale porpoise (Zoöl.), a toothed cetacean (Hyperoödon bidens), found on both sides of the Atlantic and valued for its oil. The adult becomes about twenty-five feet long, and its head is very large and thick. Called also bottle-nosed whale. 

SPERRYLITE:  An arsenide of platinum occuring in grains and minute isometric crystals of tin-white color. It is found near Sudbury, Ontario Canada, and is the only known compound of platinum occuring in nature. 

SPERSE:  To disperse. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SPESSARTITE:  A manganesian variety of garnet. 

SPET:  To spit; to throw out. [Obs.] 

SPET:  Spittle. [Obs.] 

SPETCHES:  Parings and refuse of hides, skins, etc., from which glue is made. 

SPEW:  That which is vomited; vomit. 

SPEWER:  One who spews. 

SPEWINESS:  The state of being spewy. 

SPEWY:  Wet; soggy; inclined to spew. 

SPHACEL:  Gangrene. 

SPHACELATE:  To die, decay, or become gangrenous, as flesh or bone; to mortify. 

SPHACELATE:  To affect with gangrene.  SPHACELATE; SPHACELATED Sphac"e*late, Sphac"e*la`ted, a. (Med.)  Affected with gangrene; mortified. 

SPHACELATION:  The process of becoming or making gangrenous; mortification. 

SPHACELUS:  Gangrenous part; gangrene; slough. 

SPHAERENCHYMA:  Vegetable tissue composed of thin-walled rounded cells, -- a modification of parenchyma. 

SPHAERIDIUM:  A peculiar sense organ found upon the exterior of most kinds of sea urchins, and consisting of an oval or sherical head surmounting a short pedicel. It is generally supposed to be an olfactory organ. 

SPHAEROSPORE:  One of the nonsexual spores found in red algæ; a tetraspore. 

SPHAERULITE:  Same as Spherulite. 

SPHAGNICOLOUS:  Growing in moss of the genus Sphagnum. 

SPHAGNOUS:  Pertaining to moss of the genus Sphagnum, or bog moss; abounding in peat or bog moss. 

SPHAGNUM:  A genus of mosses having white leaves slightly tinged with red or green and found growing in marshy places; bog moss; peat moss. 

SPHALERITE:  Zinc sulphide; -- called also blende, black-jack, false galena, etc. See Blende (a). 

SPHENE:  A mineral found usually in thin, wedge-shaped crystals of a yellow or green to black color. It is a silicate of titanium and calcium; titanite. 

SPHENETHMOID:  Of or pertaining to both the sphenoidal and the ethmoidal regions of the skull, or the sphenethmoid bone; sphenethmoidal. Sphenethmoid bone (Anat.), a bone of the skull which surrounds the anterior end of the brain in many amphibia; the girdle bone. 

SPHENETHMOID:  The sphenethmoid bone. 

SPHENETHMOIDAL:  Relating to the sphenoethmoid bone; sphenoethmoid. 

SPHENISCAN:  Any species of penguin.  SPHENO- Sphe"no-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the sphenoid bone; as in sphenomaxillary, sphenopalatine. 

SPHENODON:  Same as Hatteria. 

SPHENOETHMOIDAL:  Sphenethmoid. 

SPHENOGRAM:  A cuneiform, or arrow-headed, character. 

SPHENOGRAPHER:  One skilled in sphenography; a sphenographist. 

SPHENOGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to sphenography. 

SPHENOGRAPHIST:  A sphenographer. 

SPHENOGRAPHY:  The art of writing in cuneiform characters, or of deciphering inscriptions made in such characters. 

SPHENOID:  Of or pertaining to the sphenoid bone. Sphenoid bone (Anat.), an irregularly shaped bone in front of the occipital in the base of the skull of the higher vertebrates. It is composed of several fetal bones which become united the adult. See Alisphenoid, Basisphenoid, Orbitosphenoid, Presphenoid. 

SPHENOID:  A wedge-shaped crystal bounded by four equal isosceles triangles. It is the hemihedral form of a square pyramid.  2. (Anat.)  The sphenoid bone. 

SPHENOIDAL:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a sphenoid. 

SPHENOTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the sphenotic bone. Sphenotic bone (Anat.), a bone on the anterior side of the auditory capsule of many fishes, and connected with, or adjoining, the sphenoid bone. 

SPHENOTIC:  The sphenotic bone. 

SPHERE:  A body or space contained under a single surface, which in every part is equally distant from a point within called its center.  2. Hence, any globe or globular body, especially a celestial one, as the sun, a planet, or the earth. Of celestial bodies, first the sun, A mighty sphere, he framed. Milton.  3. (Astron.) (a) The apparent surface of the heavens, which is assumed to be spherical and everywhere equally distant, in which the heavenly bodies appear to have their places, and on which the various astronomical circles, as of right ascension and declination, the equator, ecliptic, etc., are conceived to be drawn; an ideal geometrical sphere, with the astronomical and geographical circles in their proper positions on it. (b) In ancient astronomy, one of the concentric and eccentric revolving spherical transparent shells in which the stars, sun, planets, and moon were supposed to be set, and by which they were carried, in such a manner as to produce their apparent motions.  4. (Logic)  The extension of a general conception, or the totality of the individuals or species to which it may be applied.  5. Circuit or range of action, knowledge, or influence; compass; province; employment; place of existence. To be called into a huge sphere, and not to be seen to move in 't. Shak. Taking her out of the ordinary relations with humanity, and inclosing her in a sphere by herself. Hawthorne. Each in his hidden sphere of joy or woe Our hermit spirits dwell. Keble.  6. Rank; order of society; social positions.  7. An orbit, as of a star; a socket. [R.] Shak. Armillary sphere, Crystalline sphere, Oblique sphere,. See under Armillary, Crystalline,.  -- Doctrine of the sphere, applications of the principles of spherical trigonometry to the properties and relations of the circles of the sphere, and the problems connected with them, in astronomy and geography, as to the latitudes and longitudes, distance and bearing, of places on the earth, and the right ascension and declination, altitude and azimuth, rising and setting, etc., of the heavenly bodies; spherical geometry.  -- Music of the spheres. See under Music.  Syn.  -- Globe; orb; circle. See Globe. 

SPHERICITY:  The quality or state of being spherial; roundness; as, the sphericity of the planets, or of a drop of water. 

SPHERICLE:  A small sphere. 

SPHERICS:  The doctrine of the sphere; the science of the properties and relations of the circles, figures, and other magnitudes of a sphere, produced by planes intersecting it; spherical geometry and trigonometry. 

SPHEROBACTERIA:  See the Note under Microbacteria. 

SPHEROCONIC:  A nonplane curve formed by the intersection of the surface of an oblique cone with the surface of a sphere whose center is at the vertex of the cone. 

SPHEROGRAPH:  An instrument for facilitating the practical use of spherics in navigation and astronomy, being constructed of two cardboards containing various circles, and turning upon each other in such a manner that any possible spherical triangle may be readily found, and the measures of the parts read off by inspection. 

SPHEROID:  A body or figure approaching to a sphere, but not perfectly spherical; esp., a solid generated by the revolution of an ellipse about one of its axes. Oblate spheroid, Prolate spheroid. See Oblate, Prolate, and Ellipsoid. 

SPHEROIDAL:  Having the form of a spheroid.  -- Sphe*roid"al*ly, adv. Spheroidal state (Physics.), the state of a liquid, as water, when, on being thrown on a surface of highly heated metal, it rolls about in spheroidal drops or masses, at a temperature several degrees below ebullition, and without actual contact with the heated surface, -- a phenomenon due to the repulsive force of heat, the intervention of a cushion of nonconducting vapor, and the cooling effect of evaporation.  SPHEROIDIC; SPHEROIDICAL Sphe*roid"ic, Sphe*roid"ic*al, a.  See Spheroidal. Cheyne.  SPHEROIDICITY; SPHEROIDITY Sphe`roi*dic"i*ty, Sphe*roid"i*ty, n.  The quality or state of being spheroidal. 

SPHEROMERE:  Any one of the several symmetrical segments arranged around the central axis and composing the body of a radiate anmal. 

SPHEROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the curvature of spherical surface, as of lenses for telescope, etc. 

SPHEROSIDERITE:  Siderite occuring in spheroidal masses. 

SPHEROSOME:  The body wall of any radiate animal. 

SPHERULATE:  Covered or set with spherules; having one or more rows of spherules, or minute tubercles. 

SPHERULE:  A little sphere or spherical body; as, quicksilver, when poured upon a plane, divides itself into a great number of minute spherules. 

SPHERULITE:  A minute spherical crystalline body having a radiated structure, observed in some vitreous volcanic rocks, as obsidian and pearlstone. 

SPHERULITIC:  Of or pertaining to a spherulite; characterized by the presence of spherulites. 

SPHEX:  Any one of numerous species of sand wasps of the genus Sphex and allied genera. These wasps have the abdomen attached to the thorax by a slender pedicel. See Illust. of Sand wasp, under Sand. Sphex fly (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small dipterous flies of the genus Conops and allied genera. The form of the body is similar to that of a sphex. 

SPHIGMOMETER:  See Sphygmometer. 

SPHINCTER:  A muscle which surrounds, and by its contraction tends to close, a natural opening; as, the sphincter of the bladder. 

SPHINCTER:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sphincter; as, a sphincter muscle. 

SPHINGID:  A sphinx. 

SPHINGID:  Of or pertaining to a sphinx, or the family Sphingidæ. 

SPHINX:  Any one of numerous species of large moths of the family Sphingidæ; -- called also hawk moth.  Note: The larva is a stout naked caterpillar which, when at rest, often assumes a position suggesting the Egyptian sphinx, whence the name.  4. (Zoöl.)  The Guinea, or sphinx, baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx). Sphinx baboon (Zoöl.), a large West African baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx), often kept in menageries.  -- Sphinx moth. (Zoöl.) Same as Sphinx, 3. 

SPHRAGIDE:  Lemnian earth. 

SPHRAGISTICS:  The science of seals, their history, age, distinctions, etc., esp. as verifying the age and genuiness of documents. 

SPHRIGOSIS:  A condition of vegetation in which there is too abundant growth of the stem and leaves, accompanied by deficiency of flowers and fruit. 

SPHYGMIC:  Of or pertaining to the pulse. 

SPHYGMOGRAM:  A tracing, called a pulse tracing, consisting of a series of curves corresponding with the beats of the heart, obtained by the application of the sphygmograph. 

SPHYGMOGRAPH:  An instrument which, when applied over an artery, indicates graphically the movements or character of the pulse. See Sphygmogram. 

SPHYGMOGRAPHIC:  Relating to, or produced by, a sphygmograph; as, a sphygmographic tracing. 

SPHYGMOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the strength of the pulse beat; a sphygmograph. 

SPHYGMOPHONE:  An electrical instrument for determining by the ear the rhythm of the pulse of a person at a distance. 

SPHYGMOSCOPE:  Same as Sphygmograph. 

SPHYRAENOID:  Of or pertaining to the Sphyrænidæ, a family of marine fishes including the barracudas. 

SPIAL:  A spy; a scout. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SPICA:  A kind of bandage passing, by successive turns and crosses, from an extremity to the trunk; -- so called from its resemblance to a spike of a barley.  2. (Astron.)  A star of the first magnitude situated in the constellation Virgo.  SPICATE; SPICATED Spi"cate, Spi"ca*ted, a. Etym: [L. spicatus, p. p. of spicare furnish with spikes, or ears, fr. spica a spike, or ear.] (Bot.)  Having the form of a spike, or ear; arranged in a spike or spikes. Lee. 

SPICCATO:  Detached; separated; -- a term indicating that every note is to be performed in a distinct and pointed manner. 

SPICEBUSH:  Spicewood. 

SPICENUT:  A small crisp cake, highly spiced. 

SPICEWOOD:  An American shrub (Lindera Benzoin), the bark of which has a spicy taste and odor; -- called also Benjamin, wild allspice, and fever bush. 

SPICIFEROUS:  Bearing ears, or spikes; spicate. [Obs.] Bailey. 

SPICIFORM:  Spike-shaped. Gray. 

SPICILY:  In a spicy manner. 

SPICINESS:  The quality or state of being spicy. 

SPICK:  A spike or nail. [Prov. Eng.] Spick and span, quite new; that is, as new as a spike or nail just made and a chip just split; brand- new; as, a spick and span novelty. See Span-new. Howell. 

SPICKNEL:  An umbelliferous herb (Meum Athamanticum) having finely divided leaves, common in Europe; -- called also baldmoney, mew, and bearwort. [Written also spignel.] 

SPICOSE:  Having spikes, or ears, like corn spikes. 

SPICOSITY:  The state of having, or being full of, ears like corn. [R.] Bailey. 

SPICOUS:  See Spicose. 

SPICULAR:  Resembling a dart; having sharp points. 

SPICULATE:  Covered with minute spiculæ, or pointed fleshy appendages; divided into small spikelets. 

SPICULATE:  To sharpen to a point. [R.] "With spiculated paling." Mason. 

SPICULE:  Same as Spicula.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any small calcareous or siliceous body found in the tissues of various invertebrate animals, especially in sponges and in most Alcyonaria.  Note: Spicules vary exceedingly in size and shape, and some of those found in siliceous sponges are very complex in structure and elegant in form. They are of great use in classification. Description of the Illustration: a Acerate; b Tricurvate, or Bowshaped; c d Hamate; e Broomshaped; f Scepterellate; g Spinispirulate; h Inequi-anchorate; i Sexradiate; j A Trichite Sheaf; k Six-rayed Capitate; l Rosette of Esperia; m Equi- anchorate. 

SPICULIFORM:  Having the shape of a spicule. 

SPICULIGENOUS:  Producing or containing spicules. 

SPICULISPONGIAE:  A division of sponges including those which have independent siliceous spicules. 

SPICULUM:  Same as Spicule. 

SPIDER:  Any one of numerous species of arachnids comprising the order Araneina. Spiders have the mandibles converted into poison fangs, or falcers. The abdomen is large and not segmented, with two or three pairs of spinnerets near the end, by means of which they spin threads of silk to form cocoons, or nests, to protect their eggs and young. Many species spin also complex webs to entrap the insects upon which they prey. The eyes are usually eight in number (rarely six), and are situated on the back of the cephalothorax. See Illust. under Araneina.  Note: Spiders are divided into two principal groups: the Dipneumona, having two lungs: and the Tetrapneumona, having four lungs. See Mygale. The former group includes several tribes; as, the jumping spiders (see Saltigradæ), the wolf spiders, or Citigradæ (see under Wolf), the crab spiders, or Laterigradæ (see under Crab), the garden, or geometric, spiders, or Orbitellæ (see under Geometrical, and Garden), and others. See Bird spider, under Bird, Grass spider, under Grass, House spider, under House, Silk spider, under Silk.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of various other arachnids resembling the true spiders, especially certain mites, as the red spider (see under Red).  3. An iron pan with a long handle, used as a kitchen utensil in frying food. Originally, it had long legs, and was used over coals on the hearth.  4. A trevet to support pans or pots over a fire.  5. (Mach.)  A skeleton, or frame, having radiating arms or members, often connected by crosspieces; as, a casting forming the hub and spokes to which the rim of a fly wheel or large gear is bolted; the body of a piston head; a frame for strengthening a core or mold for a casting, etc. Spider ant. (Zoöl.) Same as Solitary ant, under Solitary.  -- Spider crab (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of maioid crabs having a more or less triangular body and ten long legs. Some of the species grow to great size, as the great Japanese spider crab (Macrocheira Kempferi), measuring sometimes more than fifteen feet across the legs when they are extended.  -- Spider fly (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of parasitic dipterous insects of the family Hippoboscidæ. They are mostly destitute of wings, and live among the feathers of birds and the hair of bats. Called also bird tick, and bat tick.  -- Spider hunter (Zoöl.), any one of several species of East Indian sunbirds of the genus Arachnothera.  -- Spider lines, filaments of a spider's web crossing the field of vision in optical instruments; -- used for determining the exact position of objects and making delicate measurements. Fine wires, silk fibers, or lines on glass similarly placed, are called spider lines.  -- Spider mite. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of parasitic mites of the genus Argas and allied genera. See Argas. (b) Any one of numerous small mites injurious to plants.  -- Spider monkey (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of South American monkeys of the genus Ateles, having very long legs and a long prehensile tail.  -- Spider orchis (Bot.), a European orchidaceous plant (Ophrys aranifera), having flowers which resemble spiders.  -- Spider shell (Zoöl.), any shell of the genus Pteroceras. See Pteroceras. 

SPIDERED:  Infested by spiders; cobwebbed. Wolcott. 

SPIDERLIKE:  Like a spider. Shak.  SPIDER STITCH Spi"der stitch.  A stitch in lace making used to fill in open spaces with threads resembling a cobweb.  SPIDER WEB; SPIDER'S WEB Spi"der web", or Spi"der's web". (Zoöl.)  The silken web which is formed by most kinds of spiders, particularly the web spun to entrap their prey. See Geometric spider, Triangle spider, under Geometric, and Triangle. 

SPIDERWORT:  An American endogenous plant (Tradescantia Virginica), with long linear leaves and ephemeral blue flowers. The name is sometimes extended to other species of the same genus. 

SPIED:  imp. & p. p. of Spy. 

SPIEGELEISEN:  See Spiegel iron.  SPIEGEL IRON Spie"gel i`ron. Etym: [G. spiegel mirror + E. iron.] (Metal.)  A fusible white cast iron containing a large amount of carbon (from three and a half to six per cent) and some manganese. When the manganese reaches twenty-five per cent and upwards it has a granular structure, and constitutes the alloy ferro manganese, largely used in the manufacture of Bessemer steel. Called also specular pig iron, spiegel, and spiegeleisen. 

SPIGHT:  Spite. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SPIGHT:  A woodpecker. See Speight. [Obs.] 

SPIGNEL:  Same as Spickenel. 

SPIGNET:  An aromatic plant of America. See Spikenard. 

SPIGOT:  A pin or peg used to stop the vent in a cask; also, the plug of a faucet or cock. Spigot and faucet joint, a joint for uniting pipes, formed by the insertion of the end of one pipe, or pipe fitting, into a socket at the end of another. 

SPIGURNEL:  Formerly the title of the sealer of writs in chancery. Mozley & W. 

SPIKE:  A kind of flower cluster in which sessile flowers are arranged on an unbranched elongated axis. Spike grass (Bot.), either of two tall perennial American grasses (Uniola paniculata, and U. latifolia) having broad leaves and large flattened spikelets.  -- Spike rush. (Bot.) See under Rush.  -- Spike shell (Zoöl.), any pteropod of the genus Styliola having a slender conical shell.  -- Spike team, three horses, or a horse and a yoke of oxen, harnessed together, a horse leading the oxen or the span. [U.S.] 

SPIKE:  Spike lavender. See Lavender. Oil of spike (Chem.), a colorless or yellowish aromatic oil extracted from the European broad-leaved lavender, or aspic (Lavendula Spica), used in artist's varnish and in veterinary medicine. It is often adulterated with oil of turpentine, which it much resembles. 

SPIKED:  Furnished or set with spikes, as corn; fastened with spikes; stopped with spikes. A youth, leaping over the spiked pales, . . . was caught by those spikes. Wiseman. 

SPIKEFISH:  See Sailfish (a) 

SPIKELET:  A small or secondary spike; especially, one of the ultimate parts of the in florescence of grasses. See Illust. of Quaking grass. 

SPIKENARD:  An aromatic plant. In the United States it is the Aralia racemosa, often called spignet, and used as a medicine. The spikenard of the ancients is the Nardostachys Jatamansi, a native of the Himalayan region. From its blackish roots a perfume for the hair is still prepared in India.  2. A fragrant essential oil, as that from the Nardostachys Jatamansi. 

SPIKETAIL:  The pintail duck. [Local, U.S.] 

SPILE:  To supply with a spile or a spigot; to make a small vent in, as a cask. 

SPILIKIN:  One of a number of small pieces or pegs of wood, ivory, bone, or other material, for playing a game, or for counting the score in a game, as in cribbage. In the plural (spilikins), a game played with such pieces; pushpin. [Written also spillikin, spilliken.] 

SPILL:  To cover or decorate with slender pieces of wood, metal, ivory, etc.; to inlay. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SPILL:  To relieve a sail from the pressure of the wind, so that it can be more easily reefed or furled, or to lessen the strain. Spilling line (Naut.), a rope used for spilling, or dislodging, the wind from the belly of a sail. Totten. 

SPILLER:  A system or method of fishing by means of a number of hooks set on snoods all on one line; -- in North America, called trawl fishing, bultow, or bultow fishing, and long-line fishing. 

SPILLIKIN:  See Spilikin. 

SPILLWAY:  A sluiceway or passage for superfluous water in a reservoir, to prevent too great pressure on the dam. 

SPILT:  imp. & p. p. of Spill. Spilled. 

SPILTER:  Any one of the small branches on a stag's head. [Obs.] Howell. 

SPILTH:  Anything spilt, or freely poured out; slop; effusion. [Archaic] "With drunken spilth of wine." Shak. Choicest cates, and the flagon's best spilth. R. Browning. 

SPIN:  To shape, as malleable sheet metal, into a hollow form, by bending or buckling it by pressing against it with a smooth hand tool or roller while the metal revolves, as in a lathe. To spin a yarn (Naut.), to tell a story, esp. a long or fabulous tale.  -- To spin hay (Mil.), to twist it into ropes for convenient carriage on an expedition.  -- To spin street yarn, to gad about gossiping. [Collog.] 

SPIN:  Velocity of rotation about some specified axis. go for a spin take a spin, take a trip in a wheeled vehicle, usu. an automobile.  SPINA BIFIDA Spi"na bif"i*da. (Med.) Etym: [L., cleft spine.]  A congenital malformation in which the spinal column is cleft at its lower portion, and the membranes of the spinal cord project as an elastic swelling from the gap thus formed. 

SPINACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant spinach, or the family of plants to which it belongs.  SPINACH; SPINAGE Spin"ach, Spin"age, n. Etym: [OF. espinache, espinoche, F. épinard; cf. F. spinace, Sp. espinaca; all fr. Ar. isfanaj, isfinaj, aspanakh, probably of Persian origin.] (Bot.)  A common pot herb (Spinacia oleracea) belonging to the Goosefoot family. Mountain spinach. See Garden orache, under Orache.  -- New Zealand spinach (Bot.), a coarse herb (Tetragonia expansa), a poor substitute for spinach.  Note: Various other pot herbs are locally called spinach. 

SPINAL:  Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the backbone, or vertebral column; rachidian; vertebral.  2. Of or pertaining to a spine or spines. Spinal accessory nerves, the eleventh pair of cranial nerves in the higher vertebrates. They originate from the spinal cord and pass forward into the skull, from which they emerge in company with the pneumogastrics.  -- Spinal column, the backbone, or connected series or vertebræ which forms the axis of the vertebrate skeleton; the spine; rachis; vertebral column.  -- Spinal cord, the great nervous cord extending backward from the brain along the dorsal side of the spinal column of a vertebrate animal, and usually terminating in a threadlike appendage called the filum terminale; the spinal, or vertebral, marrow; the myelon. The nervous tissue consists of nerve fibers and nerve cells, the latter being confined to the so-called gray matter of the central portions of the cord, while the peripheral white matter is composed of nerve fibers only. The center of the cord is traversed by a slender canal connecting with the ventricles of the brain. 

SPINATE:  Bearing a spine; spiniform. 

SPINDLE:  The shaft, mandrel, or arbor, in a machine tool, as a lathe or drilling machine, etc., which causes the work to revolve, or carries a tool or center, etc. (b) (Mach.) The vertical rod on which the runner of a grinding mill turns. (c) (Founding) A shaft or pipe on which a core of sand is formed.  3. The fusee of a watch.  4. A long and slender stalk resembling a spindle.  5. A yarn measure containing, in cotton yarn, 15,120 yards; in linen yarn, 14,400 yards.  6. (Geom.)  A solid generated by the revolution of a curved line about its base or double ordinate or chord.  7. (Zoöl.) (a) Any marine univalve shell of the genus Rostellaria; -- called also spindle stromb. (b) Any marine gastropod of the genus Fusus. Dead spindle (Mach.), a spindle in a machine tool that does not revolve; the spindle of the tailstock of a lathe.  -- Live spindle (Mach.), the revolving spindle of a machine tool; the spindle of the headstock of a turning lathe.  -- Spindle shell. (Zoöl.) See Spindle, 7. above.  -- Spindle side, the female side in descent; in the female line; opposed to spear side. Ld. Lytton. [R.] "King Lycaon, grandson, by the spindle side, of Oceanus." Lowell.  -- Spindle tree (Bot.), any shrub or tree of the genus Eunymus. The wood of E. Europæus was used for spindles and skewers. See Prickwood. 

SPINDLE:  To shoot or grow into a long, slender stalk or body; to become disproportionately tall and slender. It has begun to spindle into overintellectuality. Lowell.  SPINDLE-LEGGED Spin"dle-legged`, a.  Having long, slender legs. 

SPINDLELEGS:  A spindlehanks.  SPINDLE-SHANKED Spin"dle-shanked`, a.  Having long, slender legs. Addison. 

SPINDLESHANKS:  A person with slender shanks, or legs; -- used humorously or in contempt.  SPINDLE-SHAPED Spin"dle-shaped`, a.  1. Having the shape of a spindle.  2. (Bot.)  Thickest in the middle, and tapering to both ends; fusiform; -- applied chiefly to roots. 

SPINDLETAIL:  The pintail duck. [Local, U.S.] 

SPINDLEWORM:  The larva of a noctuid mmoth (Achatodes zeæ) which feeds inside the stalks of corn (maize), sometimes causing much damage. It is smooth, with a black head and tail and a row of black dots across each segment. 

SPINDLING:  Long and slender, or disproportionately tall and slender; as, a spindling tree; a spindling boy. 

SPINDRIFT:  Same as Spoondrift.  The ocean waves are broken up by wind, ultimately producing the storm wrack and spindrift of the tempest-tossed sea. J. E. Marr. 

SPINE:  A sharp appendage to any of a plant; a thorn.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) A rigid and sharp projection upon any part of an animal. (b) One of the rigid and undivided fin rays of a fish.  3. (Anat.)  The backbone, or spinal column, of an animal; -- so called from the projecting processes upon the vertebræ.  4. Anything resembling the spine or backbone; a ridge. 

SPINEBACK:  A fish having spines in, or in front of, the dorsal fins. 

SPINEBILL:  Any species of Australian birds of the genus Acanthorhynchus. They are related to the honey eaters. 

SPINED:  Furnished with spines; spiny.  SPINE-FINNED Spine"-finned`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having fine supported by spinous fin rays; -- said of certain fishes.  SPINEL; SPINELLE Spi*nel", Spi*nelle", n. Etym: [F. spinelle, or LL. spinellus, perhaps from L. spina a thorn, a prickle, in allusion to its pointed crystals.] (Min.)  A mineral occuring in octahedrons of great hardness and various colors, as red, green, blue, brown, and black, the red variety being the gem spinel ruby. It consist essentially of alumina and magnesia, but commonly contains iron and sometimes also chromium.  Note: The spinel group includes spinel proper, also magnetite, chromite, franklinite, gahnite, etc., all of which may be regarded as composed of a sesquioxide and a protoxide in equal proportions. 

SPINEL:  Bleached yarn in making the linen tape called inkle; unwrought inkle. Knight. 

SPINELESS:  Having no spine. 

SPINESCENCE:  The state or quality of being spinescent or spiny; also, a spiny growth or covering, as of certain animals. 

SPINESCENT:  Becoming hard and thorny; tapering gradually to a rigid, leafless point; armed with spines. Gray. 

SPINET:  A keyed instrument of music resembling a harpsichord, but smaller, with one string of brass or steel wire to each note, sounded by means of leather or quill plectrums or jacks. It was formerly much used. Dumb spinet. (Mus.) See Manichordon. 

SPINET:  A spinny. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SPINETAIL:  Having the tail quills ending in sharp, naked tips. Spine- tailed swift. (Zoöl.) See Spinetail (a). 

SPINETED:  Slit; cleft. [Obs. & R.] 

SPINIFEROUS:  Producing spines; bearing thorns or spines; thorny; spiny. 

SPINIFORM:  Shaped like a spine. 

SPINIGEROUS:  Bearing a spine or spines; thorn-bearing. 

SPININESS:  Quality of being spiny.  SPINI-SPIRULATE Spin`i-*spir"u*late, a. (Zoöl.)  Having spines arranged spirally. See Spicule. 

SPINK:  The chaffinch. 

SPINNAKER:  A large triangular sail set upon a boom, -- used when running before the wind. 

SPINNER:  A goatsucker; -- so called from the peculiar noise it makes when darting through the air.  4. (Zoöl.)  A spinneret. Ring spinner, a machine for spinning, in which the twist, given to the yarn by a revolving bobbin, is regulated by the drag of a small metal loop which slides around a ring encircling the bobbin, instead of by a throstle. 

SPINNERET:  One of the special jointed organs situated on the under side, and near the end, of the abdomen of spiders, by means of which they spin their webs. Most spiders have three pairs of spinnerets, but some have only two pairs. The ordinary silk line of the spider is composed of numerous smaller lines jointed after issuing from the spinnerets. 

SPINNERULE:  One of the numerous small spinning tubes on the spinnerets of spiders. 

SPINNEY:  Same as Spinny. T. Hughes. 

SPINNING:  from Spin. Spinning gland (Zoöl.), one of the glands which form the material for spinning the silk of silkworms and other larvæ.  -- Spinning house, formerly a common name for a house of correction in England, the women confined therein being employed in spinning.  -- Spinning jenny (Mach.), an engine or machine for spinning wool or cotton, by means of a large number of spindles revolving simultaneously.  -- Spinning mite (Zoöl.), the red spider.  -- Spinning wheel, a machine for spinning yarn or thread, in which a wheel drives a single spindle, and is itself driven by the hand, or by the foot acting on a treadle. 

SPINNY:  A small thicket or grove with undergrowth; a clump of trees. [Written also spinney, and spinny.] The downs rise steep, crowned with black fir spinnies. C. Kingsley. 

SPINNY:  Thin and long; slim; slender. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

SPINOSE:  Full of spines; armed with thorns; thorny. 

SPINOSITY:  The quality or state of being spiny or thorny; spininess. 

SPINOZISM:  The form of Pantheism taught by Benedict Spinoza, that there is but one substance, or infinite essence, in the universe, of which the so-called material and spiritual beings and phenomena are only modes, and that one this one substance is God. [Written also Spinosism.] 

SPINOZIST:  A believer in Spinozism. 

SPINSTER:  An unmarried or single woman; -- used in legal proceedings as a title, or addition to the surname. If a gentlewoman be termed a spinster, she may abate the writ. Coke.  4. A woman of evil life and character; -- so called from being forced to spin in a house of correction. [Obs.] 

SPINSTRESS:  A woman who spins. T. Brown. 

SPINSTRY:  The business of one who spins; spinning. [Obs.] Milton. 

SPINTHARISCOPE:  A small instrument containing a minute particle of a radium compound mounted in front of a fluorescent screen and viewed with magnifying lenses. The tiny flashes produced by the continual bombardment of the screen by the a rays are thus rendered visible. -- Spin*thar`i*scop"ic (#), a. 

SPINULE:  A minute spine. Dana. 

SPINULESCENT:  Having small spines; somewhat thorny.  SPINULOSE; SPINULOUS Spin"u*lose`, Spin"u*lous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. spinuleux.]  Covered with small spines. 

SPINY:  See Spinny. 

SPIODEA:  An extensive division of marine Annelida, including those that are without oral tentacles or cirri, and have the gills, when present, mostly arranged along the sides of the body. They generally live in burrows or tubes. 

SPIRABLE:  Capable of being breathed; respirable. [Obs.] Nash. 

SPIRACLE:  The nostril, or one of the nostrils, of whales, porpoises, and allied animals.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) One of the external openings communicating with the air tubes or tracheæ of insects, myriapods, and arachnids. They are variable in number, and are usually situated on the sides of the thorax and abdomen, a pair to a segment. These openings are usually elliptical, and capable of being closed. See Illust. under Coleoptera. (a) A tubular orifice communicating with the gill cavity of certain ganoid and all elasmobranch fishes. It is the modified first gill cleft.  3. Any small aperture or vent for air or other fluid. 

SPIRACULAR:  Of or pertaining to a spiracle. 

SPIRAEA:  A genus of shrubs or perennial herbs including the meadowsweet and the hardhack. 

SPIRAEIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the meadowsweet (Spiræa); formerly, designating an acid which is now called salicylic acid. 

SPIRAL:  Of or pertaining to a spiral; like a spiral. Spiral gear, or Spiral wheel (Mach.), a gear resembling in general a spur gear, but having its teeth cut at an angle with its axis, or so that they form small portions of screws or spirals.  -- Spiral gearing, a kind of gearing sometimes used in light machinery, in which spiral gears, instead of bevel gears, are used to transmit motion between shafts that are not parallel.  -- Spiral operculum, an operculum whih has spiral lines of growth.  -- Spiral shell, any shell in which the whorls form a spiral or helix.  -- Spiral spring. See the Note under Spring, n., 4. 

SPIRAL:  A plane curve, not reëntrant, described by a point, called the generatrix, moving along a straight line according to a mathematical law, while the line is revolving about a fixed point called the pole. Cf. Helix.  2. Anything which has a spiral form, as a spiral shell. Equiangular spiral,a plane curve which cuts all its generatrices at the same angle. Same as Logarithmic spiral, under Logarithmic.  -- Spiral of Archimedes, a spiral the law of which is that the generatrix moves uniformly along the revolving line, which also moves uniformly. 

SPIRALITY:  The quality or states of being spiral. 

SPIRALLY:  In a spiral form, manner, or direction. 

SPIRALOZOOID:  One of the special defensive zooids of certain hydroids. They have the form of long, slender tentacles, and bear lasso cells. 

SPIRANT:  A term used differently by different authorities; -- by some as equivalent to fricative, -- that is, as including all the continuous consonants, except the nasals m, n, ng; with the further exception, by others, of the liquids r, l, and the semivowels w, y; by others limited to f, v, th surd and sonant, and the sound of German ch, -- thus excluding the sibilants, as well as the nasals, liquids, and semivowels. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 197-208. 

SPIRANTHY:  The occasional twisted growth of the parts of a flower. 

SPIRATION:  The act of breathing. [Obs.] Barrow. 

SPIRE:  To breathe. [Obs.] Shenstone. 

SPIRE:  A tube or fuse for communicating fire to the chargen in blasting.  4. The top, or uppermost point, of anything; the summit. The spire and top of praises. Shak. 

SPIRE:  To shoot forth, or up in, or as if in, a spire. Emerson. It is not so apt to spire up as the other sorts, being more inclined to branch into arms. Mortimer. 

SPIRE:  The part of a spiral generated in one revolution of the straight line about the pole. See Spiral, n. Spire bearer. (Paleon.) Same as Spirifer. 

SPIRED:  Having a spire; being in the form of a spire; as, a spired steeple. Mason. 

SPIRICLE:  One of certain minute coiled threads in the coating of some seeds. When moistened these threads protrude in great numbers. Gray. 

SPIRIFER:  Any one of numerous species of fossil brachipods of the genus Spirifer, or Delthyris, and allied genera, in which the long calcareous supports of the arms form a large spiral, or helix, on each side. 

SPIRILLUM:  A genus of common motile microörganisms (Spirobacteria) having the form of spiral-shaped filaments. One species is said to be the cause of relapsing fever. 

SPIRING:  Shooting up in a spire or spires. "The spiring grass." Dryton. 

SPIRIT:  Rum, whisky, brandy, gin, and other distilled liquors having much alcohol, in distinction from wine and malt liquors.  14. (Med.)  A solution in alcohol of a volatile principle. Cf. Tincture. U. S. Disp.  15. (Alchemy)  Any one of the four substances, sulphur, sal ammoniac, quicksilver, or arsenic (or, according to some, orpiment). The four spirits and the bodies seven. Chaucer.  16. (Dyeing)  Stannic chloride. See under Stannic.  Note: Spirit is sometimes joined with other words, forming compounds, generally of obvious signification; as, spirit-moving, spirit- searching, spirit-stirring, etc. Astral spirits, Familiar spirits, etc. See under Astral, Familiar, etc.  -- Animal spirits. (a) (Physiol.) The fluid which at one time was supposed to circulate through the nerves and was regarded as the agent of sensation and motion; -- called also the nervous fluid, or nervous principle. (b) Physical health and energy; frolicsomeness; sportiveness.  -- Ardent spirits, strong alcoholic liquors, as brandy, rum, whisky, etc., obtained by distillation.  -- Holy Spirit, or The Spirit (Theol.), the Spirit of God, or the third person of the Trinity; the Holy Ghost. The spirit also signifies the human spirit as influenced or animated by the Divine Spirit.  -- Proof spirit. (Chem.) See under Proof.  -- Rectified spirit (Chem.), spirit rendered purer or more concentrated by redistillation, so as to increase the percentage of absolute alcohol.  -- Spirit butterfly (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of delicate butterflies of tropical America belonging to the genus Ithomia. The wings are gauzy and nearly destitute of scales.  -- Spirit duck. (Zoöl.) (a) The buffle-headed duck. (b) The golden- eye.  -- Spirit lamp (Art), a lamp in which alcohol or methylated spirit is burned.  -- Spirit level. See under Level.  -- Spirit of hartshorn. (Old Chem.) See under Hartshorn.  -- Spirit of Mindererus (Med.), an aqueous solution of acetate of ammonium; -- named after R. Minderer, physician of Augsburg.  -- Spirit of nitrous ether (Med. Chem.), a pale yellow liquid, of a sweetish taste and a pleasant ethereal odor. It is obtained by the distillatin of alcohol with nitric and sulphuric acids, and consists essentially of ethyl nitrite with a little acetic aldehyde. It is used a diaphoretic, diuretic, antispasmodic, etc. Called also sweet spirit of niter.  -- Spirit of salt (Chem.), hydrochloric acid; -- so called because obtained from salt and sulphuric acid. [Obs.] -- Spirit of sense, the utmost refinement of sensation. [Obs.] Shak.  -- Spirits, or Spirit, of turpentine (Chem.), rectified oil of turpentine, a transparent, colorless, volatile, and very inflammable liquid, distilled from the turpentine of the various species of pine; camphine. See Camphine.  -- Spirit of vitriol (Chem.), sulphuric acid; -- so called because formerly obtained by the distillation of green vitriol. [Obs.] -- Spirit of vitriolic ether (Chem.) ether; -- often but incorrectly called sulphuric ether. See Ether. [Obs.] -- Spirits, or Spirit, of wine (Chem.), alcohol; -- so called because formerly obtained by the distillation of wine.  -- Spirit rapper, one who practices spirit rapping; a "medium" so called.  -- Spirit rapping, an alleged form of communication with the spirits of the dead by raps. See Spiritualism, 3.  -- Sweet spirit of niter. See Spirit of nitrous ether, above.  Syn.  -- Life; ardor; energy; fire; courage; animatioon; cheerfulness; vivacity; enterprise. 

SPIRITALLY:  By means of the breath. [Obs.] Holder. 

SPIRITFUL:  Full of spirit; spirited. [R.] The spiritful and orderly life of our own grown men. Milton. -- Spir"it*ful*ly, adv.  -- Spir"it*ful*ness, n. 

SPIRITISM:  Spiritualsm. 

SPIRITIST:  A spiritualist. 

SPIRITOSO:  Spirited; spiritedly; -- a direction to perform a passage in an animated, lively manner. 

SPIRITOUSNESS:  Quality of being spiritous. [R.] 

SPIRITUAL:  A spiritual function, office, or affair. See Spirituality, 2. He assigns supremacy to the pope in spirituals, and to the emperor in temporals. Lowell. 

SPIRITUALISM:  The doctrine, in opposition to the materialists, that all which exists is spirit, or soul -- that what is called the external world is either a succession of notions impressed on the mind by the Deity, as maintained by Berkeley, or else the mere educt of the mind itself, as taught by Fichte.  3. A belief that departed spirits hold intercourse with mortals by means of physical phenomena, as by rappng, or during abnormal mental states, as in trances, or the like, commonly manifested through a person of special susceptibility, called a medium; spiritism; the doctrines and practices of spiritualists. What is called spiritualism should, I think, be called a mental species of materialism. R. H. Hutton. 

SPIRITUALIST:  Spiritualistic. Taylor. 

SPIRITUALISTIC:  Relating to, or connected with, spiritualism. 

SPIRITUALITY:  That which belongs to the church, or to a person as an ecclesiastic, or to religion, as distinct from temporalities. During the vacancy of a see, the archbishop is guardian of the spiritualities thereof. Blackstone.  3. An ecclesiastical body; the whole body of the clergy, as distinct from, or opposed to, the temporality. [Obs.] Five entire subsidies were granted to the king by the spirituality. Fuller. 

SPIRITUALIZATION:  The act of spiritualizing, or the state of being spiritualized. 

SPIRITUALIZE:  To extract spirit from; also, to convert into, or impregnate with, spirit. 

SPIRITUALIZER:  One who spiritualizes. 

SPIRITUALLY:  In a spiritual manner; with purity of spirit; like a spirit.  SPIRITUAL-MINDED Spir"it*u*al-mind`ed, a.  Having the mind set on spiritual things, or filled with holy desires and affections.  -- Spir"it*u*al-mind`ed*ness, n. 

SPIRITUALNESS:  The quality or state of being spiritual or spiritual-minded; spirituality. 

SPIRITUALTY:  An ecclesiastical body; a spirituality. Shak. 

SPIRITUELLE:  Of the nature, or having the appearance, of a spirit; pure; refined; ethereal. 

SPIRITUOSITY:  The quality or state of being spirituous; spirituousness. [R.] 

SPIRITUOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being spirituous. [R.] Boyle. 

SPIRKETING:  The planking from the waterways up to the port sills. Totten. 

SPIRLING:  Sparling. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPIROBACTERIA:  See the Note under Microbacteria.  SPIROCHAETA; SPIROCHAETE Spi`ro*chæ"ta, Spi`ro*chæ"te, n. Etym: [L. spira a coil + Gr. (Biol.)  A genus of Spirobacteria similar to Spirillum, but distinguished by its motility. One species, the Spirochæte Obermeyeri, is supposed to be the cause of relapsing fever. 

SPIROGRAPH:  An instrument for recording the respiratory movements, as the sphygmograph does those of the pulse. 

SPIROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the vital capacity of the lungs, or the volume of air which can be expelled from the chest after the deepest possible inspiration. Cf. Pneumatometer. 

SPIROMETRY:  The act or process of measuring the chest capacity by means of a spirometer. 

SPIROSCOPE:  A wet meter used to determine the breathing capacity of the lungs.  SPIROYLIC; SPIROYLOUS Spi*royl"ic, Spi*royl"ous, a. Etym: [NL. Spir meadowsweet (a source of salicylal) + -yl + -ic, -ous.] (Chem.)  Pertaining to, or designating, a substance now called salicylal. [Obs.] 

SPIRT:  Same as Spurt. 

SPIRTLE:  To spirt in a scattering manner. 

SPIRULA:  A genus of cephalopods having a multilocular, internal, siphunculated shell in the form of a flat spiral, the coils of which are not in contact. 

SPIRULATE:  Having the color spots, or structural parts, arranged spirally. 

SPIRY:  Of a spiral form; wreathed; curled; serpentine. Hid in the spiry volumes of the snake. Dryden. 

SPIRY:  Of or pertaining to a spire; like a spire, tall, slender, and tapering; abounding in spires; as, spiry turrets. "Spiry towns." Thomson. 

SPISS:  Thick; crowded; compact; dense. [Obs.] This spiss and . . . copious, yet concise, treatise. Brerewood. 

SPISSATED:  Rendered dense or compact, as by evaporation; inspissated; thickened. [R.] The spissated juice of the poppy. Bp. Warburton. 

SPISSITUDE:  The quality or state of being spissated; as, the spissitude of coagulated blood, or of any coagulum. Arbuthnot. 

SPIT:  To attend to a spit; to use a spit. [Obs.] She's spitting in the kitchen. Old Play. 

SPIT:  The secretion formed by the glands of the mouth; spitle; saliva; sputum. 

SPITAL:  A hospital. [Obs.] Shak. 

SPITALHOUSE:  A hospital. [Obs.] 

SPITBALL:  Paper chewed, and rolled into a ball, to be thrown as a missile.  SPIT BALL Spit ball. (Baseball)  A pitched ball in throwing which the pitcher grips the ball between two, or three, fingers on one side (which is made slippery, as by saliva) and the thumb on the other side, and delivers it so that it slips off the fingers with the least possible friction. When pitched directly overhand a spit ball darts downward, when pitched with the arm extended sidewise it darts down and out. [Cant] -- Spit baller. 

SPITBOX:  A vessel to receive spittle. 

SPITCHCOCK:  To split (as an eel) lengthwise, and broil it, or fry it in hot fat. 

SPITCHCOCK:  An eel split and broiled. 

SPITCHCOCKED:  Broiled or fried after being split lengthwise; -- said of eels.  SPIT CURL Spit" curl`.  A little lock of hair, plastered in a spiral form on the temple or forehead with spittle, or other adhesive substance. [Colloq.] 

SPITEFUL:  Filled with, or showing, spite; having a desire to vex, annoy, or injure; malignant; malicious; as, a spiteful person or act. Shak.  -- Spite"ful*ly, adv. Spite"ful*ness, n. 

SPITFIRE:  A violent, irascible, or passionate person. [Colloq.] Grose. 

SPITFUL:  A spadeful. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPITOUS:  Having spite; spiteful. [Obs.] 

SPITOUSLY:  Spitefully. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SPITSCOCKED:  Spitchcocked. 

SPITTED:  p. p. of Spit, v. i., to eject, to spit. [Obs.] 

SPITTER:  One who ejects saliva from the mouth. 

SPITTER:  A young deer whose antlers begin to shoot or become sharp; a brocket, or pricket. 

SPITTLE:  See Spital. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SPITTLE:  To dig or stir with a small spade. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPITTLE:  A small sort of spade. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPITTLE:  The thick, moist matter which is secreted by the salivary glands; saliva; spit. Spittle insect. (Zoöl.) See Cuckoo spit (b), under Cuckoo. 

SPITTLY:  Like spittle; slimy. [Obs.] 

SPITTOON:  A spitbox; a cuspidor.  SPIT-VENOM Spit"-ven"om, n.  Poison spittle; poison ejected from the mouth. [R.] Hooker.  SPITZ DOG Spitz" dog". Etym: [G. spitz, spitzhund.] (Zoöl.)  A breed of dogs having erect ears and long silky hair, usually white; -- called also Pomeranian dog, and louploup. 

SPITZENBURGH:  A kind of red and yellow apple, of medium size and spicy flavor. It originated at Newtown, on Long Island. 

SPLANCHNAPOPHYSIS:  Any element of the skeleton in relation with the alimentary canal, as the jaws and hyoidean apparatus.  -- Splanch`nap`o*phys"i*al, a. Mivart. 

SPLANCHNIC:  Of or pertaining to the viscera; visceral. 

SPLANCHNOGRAPHY:  Splanchnology. 

SPLANCHNOLOGY:  That part of anatomy which treats of the viscera; also, a treatise on the viscera. 

SPLANCHNOPLEURE:  The inner, or visceral, one of the two lamellæ into which the vertebrate blastoderm divides on either side of the notochord, and from which the walls of the enteric canal and the umbilical vesicle are developed. See Somatopleure.  -- Splanch`no*pleu"ric, a.  SPLANCHNO-SKELETON Splanch`no-skel"e*ton, n. Etym: [Gr. skeleton.] (Anat.)  That part of the skeleton connected with the sense organs and the viscera. Owen. 

SPLANCHNOTOMY:  The dissection, or anatomy, of the viscera. 

SPLANDREL:  See Spandrel. [R.] 

SPLASH:  To strike and dash about water, mud, etc.; to dash in such a way as to spatter. 

SPLASHBOARD:  A guard in the front part of vehicle, to prevent splashing by a mud or water from the horse's heels; -- in the United States commonly called dashboard. 

SPLASHY:  Full of dirty water; wet and muddy, so as be easily splashed about; slushy. 

SPLATTER:  To spatter; to splash. 

SPLATTERDASH:  Uproar. Jamieson. 

SPLAY:  Displayed; spread out; turned outward; hence, flat; ungainly; as, splay shoulders. Sonwthing splay, something blunt-edged, unhandy, and infelicitous. M. Arnold. 

SPLAY:  A slope or bevel, especially of the sides of a door or window, by which the opening is made larged at one face of the wall than at the other, or larger at each of the faces than it is between them. 

SPLAYFOOT:  A foot that is abnormally flattened and spread out; flat foot.  SPLAYFOOT; SPLAYFOOTED Splay"foot`, Splay"foot`ed a.  Having a splayfoot or splayfeet. 

SPLAYMOUTH:  A wide mouth; a mouth stretched in derision. Dryden. 

SPLAYMOUTHED:  Having a splaymouth. T. Brown. 

SPLEEN:  A peculiar glandlike but ductless organ found near the stomach or intestine of most vertebrates and connected with the vascular system; the milt. Its exact function in not known.  2. Anger; latent spite; ill humor; malice; as, to vent one's spleen. In noble minds some dregs remain, Not yet purged off, of spleen and sour disdain. Pope.  3. A fit of anger; choler. Shak.  4. A sudden motion or action; a fit; a freak; a whim. [Obs. or R.] A thousand spleens bear her a thousand ways. Shak.  5. Melancholy; hypochondriacal affections. Bodies changed to various forms by spleen. Pope. There is a luxury in self-dispraise: And inward self-disparagement affords To meditative spleen a grateful feast. Wordsworth.  6. A fit of immoderate laughter or merriment. [Obs.] Thy silly thought enforces my spleen. Shak. 

SPLEEN:  To dislke. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket. 

SPLEENFUL:  Displaying, or affected with, spleen; angry; fretful; melancholy. Myself have calmed their spleenful mutiny. Shak. Then rode Geraint, a little spleenful yet, Across the bridge that spann'd the dry ravine. Tennyson. 

SPLEENISH:  Spleeny; affected with spleen; fretful.  -- Spleen"ish*ly, adv.  -- Spleen"ish*ness, n. 

SPLEENLESS:  Having no spleen; hence, kind; gentle; mild. [Obs.] Chapman. 

SPLEENWORT:  Any fern of the genus Asplenium, some species of which were anciently used as remedies for disorders of the spleen. 

SPLEGET:  A cloth dipped in a liquid for washing a sore. Crabb. 

SPLENALGIA:  Pain over the region of the spleen. 

SPLENCULUS:  A lienculus. 

SPLENDIDIOUS:  Splendid. [Obs.] 

SPLENDIDLY:  In a splendid manner; magnificently. 

SPLENDIDNESS:  The quality of being splendid. 

SPLENDIDOUS:  Splendid. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SPLENDIFEROUS:  Splendor-bearing; splendid. Bale (1538). "A splendiferous woman." Haliburton. [Now used humorously.] 

SPLENDOR:  Splendid. Drayton. 

SPLENETIC:  Affected with spleen; malicious; spiteful; peevish; fretful. "Splenetic guffaw." G. Eliot. You humor me when I am sick; Why not when I am splenetic Pope.  Syn.  -- Morese; gloomy; sullen; peevish; fretful. 

SPLENETIC:  A person affected with spleen. 

SPLENETICAL:  Splenetic. 

SPLENETICALLY:  In a splenetical manner. 

SPLENIAL:  The splenial bone. 

SPLENIC:  Of or pertaining to the spleen; lienal; as, the splenic vein. Splenic apoplexy or fever. (Med.) See Anthrax, n., 3. 

SPLENICAL:  Splenic. 

SPLENISH:  Spleenish. [Obs.] Drayton. 

SPLENITIS:  Inflammation of the spleen. 

SPLENITIVE:  Splenetic. Shak. Even and smooth as seemed the temperament of the nonchalant, languid Virginian -- not splenitive or rash. T. N. Page. 

SPLENIUM:  The thickened posterior border of the corpus callosum; -- so called in allusion to its shape. 

SPLENIUS:  A flat muscle of the back of the neck. 

SPLENIZATION:  A morbid state of the lung produced by inflammation, in which its tissue resembles that of the spleen. 

SPLENOCELE:  Hernia formed by the spleen. 

SPLENOGRAPHY:  A description of the spleen. 

SPLENOID:  Resembling the spleen; spleenlike. 

SPLENOLOGY:  The branch of science which treats of the spleen. 

SPLEUCHAN:  A pouch, as for tobacco. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SPLICE:  A junction or joining made by splicing. 

SPLINING:  Of or pertaining to a spline. Splining machine, a machine tool for cutting grooves, key seats, or slots; a slotting machine. 

SPLINT:  A thin piece of wood, or other substance, used to keep in place, or protect, an injured part, especially a broken bone when set.  3. (Anat.)  A splint bone.  4. (Far.)  A disease affecting the splint bones, as a callosity or hard excrescence.  5. (Anc. Armor.)  One of the small plates of metal used in making splint armor. See Splint armor, below. The knees and feet were defended by splints, or thin plates of steel. Sir. W. Scott.  6. Splint, or splent, coal. See Splent coal, under Splent. Splint armor,a kind of ancient armor formed of thin plates of metal, usually overlapping each other and allowing the limbs to move freely.  -- Splint bone (Anat.), one of the rudimentary, splintlike metacarpal or metatarsal bones on either side of the cannon bone in the limbs of the horse and allied animals.  -- Splint coal. See Splent coal, under Splent. 

SPLINT:  To split into splints, or thin, slender pieces; to splinter; to shiver. [Obs. or R.] Florio.  2. To fasten or confine with splints, as a broken limb. See Splint, n., 2. [R.] Shak. 

SPLINTER:  To become split into long pieces. 

SPLINTER:  A thin piece split or rent off lengthwise, as from wood, bone, or other solid substance; a thin piece; a sliver; as, splinters of a ship's mast rent off by a shot.  Splinter bar. (a) A crossbar in a coach, which supports the springs. (b) The bar to which the traces are attached; a roller bolt; a whiffletree. 

SPLINTERPROOF:  Proof against the splinters, or fragments, of bursting shells. 

SPLINTERY:  Consisting of splinters; resembling splinters; as, the splintery fracture of a mineral. 

SPLIT:  To divide or separate into components; -- often used with up; as, to split up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid. To split hairs, to make distinctions of useless nicety. 

SPLIT:  A crack, or longitudinl fissure.  2. A breach or separation, as in a political party; a division. [Colloq.]  3. A piece that is split off, or made thin, by splitting; a splinter; a fragment.  4. Specif (Leather Manuf.), one of the sections of a skin made by dividing it into two or more thicknesses.  5. (Faro)  A division of a stake happening when two cards of the kind on which the stake is laid are dealt in the same turn. 

SPLIT:  Divided deeply; cleft. Split pease, hulled pease split for making soup, etc.  -- Split pin (Mach.), a pin with one end split so that it may be spread open to secure it in its place.  -- Split pulley, a parting pulley. See under Pulley.  -- Split ring, a ring with overlapped or interlocked ends which may be sprung apart so that objects, as keys, may be strung upon the ring or removed from it.  -- Split ticket, a ballot containing the names of only a portion of the candidates regularly nominated by one party, other names being substituted for those omitted. [U.S.]  SPLIT DYNAMOMETER Split dynamometer. (Elec.)  An electric dynamometer having two coils so arranged that one carries the primary current, and the other the secondary current, of a transformer. 

SPLITFEET:  The Fissipedia.  SPLIT INFINITIVE Split infinitive. (Gram.)  A simple infinitive with to, having a modifier between the verb and the to; as in, to largely decrease. Called also cleft infinitive.  SPLIT KEY Split key. (Mach.)  A key split at one end like a split pin, for the same purpose.  SPLIT SHOT; SPLIT STROKE Split shot or stroke .  In croquet, etc., a shot or stroke in which one drives in different directions one's own and the opponent's ball placed in contact.  SPLIT STITCH Split stitch.  A stitch used in stem work to produce a fine line, much used in old church embroidery to work the hands and faces of figures.  SPLIT STUFF Split stuff.  Timber sawn into lengths and then split.  SPLIT SWITCH Split switch. (Railroading)  = Point switch.  SPLIT-TAIL Split"-tail`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) A california market fish (Pogonichthys macrolepidotus) belonging to the Carp family. (b) The pintail duck. 

SPLITTER:  One who, or that which, splits.  SPLIT-TONGUED Split"-tongued`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having a forked tongue, as that of snakes and some lizards.  SPLIT WHEEL Split wheel.  = Split pulley. 

SPLOTCH:  A spot; a stain; a daub. R. Browning. 

SPLOTCHY:  Covered or marked with splotches. 

SPLURGE:  A blustering demonstration, or great effort; a great display. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett. 

SPLURGE:  To make a great display in any way, especially in oratory. [Slang, U.S.] splurge on a new hi-fi system. 

SPLUTTER:  To speak hastily and confusedly; to sputter. [Colloq.] Carleton. 

SPLUTTER:  A confused noise, as of hasty speaking. [Colloq.] 

SPLUTTERER:  One who splutters. 

SPODOMANCY:  Divination by means of ashes. 

SPODOMANTIC:  Relating to spodomancy, or divination by means of ashes. C. Kingsley. 

SPODUMENE:  A mineral of a white to yellowish, purplish, or emerald-green color, occuring in prismatic crystals, often of great size. It is a silicate of aluminia and lithia. See Hiddenite. 

SPOFFISH:  Earnest and active in matters of no moment; bustling. [Colloq. Eng.] Dickens. 

SPOILABLE:  Capable of being spoiled. 

SPOILFIVE:  A certain game at cards in which, if no player wins three of the five tricks possible on any deal, the game is said to be spoiled. 

SPOILFUL:  Wasteful; rapacious. [Poetic] 

SPOILSMAN:  One who serves a cause or a party for a share of the spoils; in United States politics, one who makes or recognizes a demand for public office on the ground of partisan service; also, one who sanctions such a policy in appointments to the public service. 

SPOILSMONGER:  One who promises or distributes public offices and their emoluments as the price of services to a party or its leaders. 

SPOKE:  imp. of Speak. 

SPOKE:  A projecting handle of a steering wheel.  3. A rung, or round, of a ladder.  4. A contrivance for fastening the wheel of a vehicle, to prevent it from turning in going down a hill. To put a spoke in one's wheel, to thwart or obstruct one in the execution of some design. 

SPOKE:  To furnish with spokes, as a wheel. 

SPOKESHAVE:  A kind of drawing knife or planing tool for dressing the spokes of wheels, the shells of blocks, and other curved work. 

SPOKESMAN:  One who speaks for another. He shall be thy spokesman unto the people. Ex. iv. 16. 

SPOLIATE:  To plunder; to pillage; to despoil; to rob. 

SPOLIATION:  Injury done to a document. 

SPOLIATIVE:  Serving to take away, diminish, or rob; esp. (Med.), serving to diminish sensibily the amount of blood in the body; as, spoliative bloodletting. 

SPOLIATOR:  One who spoliates; a spoiler. 

SPOLIATORY:  Tending to spoil; destructive; spoliative.  SPONDAIC; SPONDAICAL Spon*da"ic, Spon*da"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. spondaicus, spondiacus, Gr. spondaïque.]  1. Or of pertaining to a spondee; consisting of spondees.  2. Containing spondees in excess; marked by spondees; as, a spondaic hexameter, i. e., one which has a spondee instead of a dactyl in the fifth foot. 

SPONDEE:  A poetic foot of two long syllables, as in the Latin word leges. 

SPONDULICS:  Money. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.  SPONDYL; SPONDYLE Spon"dyl, Spon"dyle, n. Etym: [L. spondylus, Gr. spondyle.] (Anat.)  A joint of the backbone; a vertebra. 

SPONG:  An irregular, narrow, projecting part of a field. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPONGE:  Any one of numerous species of Spongiæ, or Porifera. See Illust. and Note under Spongiæ.  2. The elastic fibrous skeleton of many species of horny Spongiæ (keratosa), used for many purposes, especially the varieties of the genus Spongia. The most valuable sponges are found in the Mediterranean and the Red Sea, and on the coasts of Florida and the West Indies.  3. Fig.: One who lives upon others; a pertinaceous and indolent dependent; a parasite; a sponger.  4. Any spongelike substance. Specifically: (a) Dough before it is kneaded and formed into loaves, and after it is converted into a light, spongy mass by the agency of the yeast or leaven. (b) Iron from the puddling furnace, in a pasty condition. (c) Iron ore, in masses, reduced but not melted or worked.  5. (Gun.)  A mop for cleaning the bore of a cannon after a discharge. It consists of a cylinder of wood, covered with sheepskin with the wool on, or cloth with a heavy looped nap, and having a handle, or staff.  6. (Far.)  The extremity, or point, of a horseshoe, answering to the heel. Bath sponge, any one of several varieties of coarse commercial sponges, especially Spongia equina.  -- Cup sponge, a toilet sponge growing in a cup-shaped form.  -- Glass sponge. See Glass-sponge, in the Vocabulary.  -- Glove sponge, a variety of commercial sponge (Spongia officinalis, variety tubulufera), having very fine fibers, native of Florida, and the West Indies.  -- Grass sponge, any one of several varieties of coarse commercial sponges having the surface irregularly tufted, as Spongia graminea, and S. equina, variety cerebriformis, of Florida and the West Indies.  -- Horse sponge, a coarse commercial sponge, especially Spongia equina.  -- Platinum sponge. (Chem.) See under Platinum.  -- Pyrotechnical sponge, a substance made of mushrooms or fungi, which are boiled in water, dried, and beaten, then put in a strong lye prepared with saltpeter, and again dried in an oven. This makes the black match, or tinder, brought from Germany.  -- Sheep's-wool sponge, a fine and durable commercial sponge (Spongia equina, variety gossypina) found in Florida and the West Indies. The surface is covered with larger and smaller tufts, having the oscula between them.  -- Sponge cake, a kind of sweet cake which is light and spongy.  -- Sponge lead, or Spongy lead (Chem.), metallic lead brought to a spongy form by reduction of lead salts, or by compressing finely divided lead; -- used in secondary batteries and otherwise.  -- Sponge tree (Bot.), a tropical leguminous tree (Acacia Farnesiana), with deliciously fragrant flowers, which are used in perfumery.  -- Toilet sponge, a very fine and superior variety of Mediterranean sponge (Spongia officinalis, variety Mediterranea); -- called also turkish sponge.  -- To set a sponge (Cookery), to leaven a small mass of flour, to be used in leavening a larger quantity.  -- To throw up the sponge, to give up a contest; to acknowledge defeat; -- from a custom of the prize ring, the person employed to sponge a pugilist between rounds throwing his sponge in the air in token of defeat. [Cant or Slang] "He was too brave a man to throw up the sponge to fate." Lowell.  -- Vegetable sponge. (Bot.) See Loof.  -- Velvet sponge, a fine, soft commercial sponge (Spongia equina, variety meandriniformis) found in Florida and the West Indies.  -- Vitreous sponge. See Glass-sponge.  -- Yellow sponge, a common and valuable commercial sponge (Spongia agaricina, variety corlosia) found in Florida and the West Indies. 

SPONGELET:  See Spongiole. 

SPONGEOUS:  Resembling sponge; having the nature or qualities of sponge. 

SPONGIAE:  The grand division of the animal kingdom which includes the sponges; -- called also Spongida, Spongiaria, Spongiozoa, and Porifera.  Note: In the Spongiæ, the soft sarcode of the body is usually supported by a skeleton consisting of horny fibers, or of silleceous or calcareous spicules. The common sponges contain larger and smaller cavities and canals, and numerous small ampullæ which which are lined with ciliated cells capable of taking in solid food. The outer surface usually has minute pores through which water enters, and large openings for its exit. Sponges produce eggs and spermatozoa, and the egg when fertilized undergoes segmentation to form a ciliated embryo. 

SPONGIDA:  Spongiæ. 

SPONGIFORM:  Resembling a sponge; soft and porous; porous. 

SPONGILLA:  A genus of siliceous spongea found in fresh water. 

SPONGIN:  The chemical basis of sponge tissue, a nitrogenous, hornlike substance which on decomposition with sulphuric acid yields leucin and glycocoll. 

SPONGINESS:  The quality or state of being spongy. Dr. H. More. 

SPONGING:  a. & n. from Sponge, v. Sponging house (Eng. Law), a bailiff's or other house in which debtors are put before being taken to jail, or until they compromise with their creditors. At these houses extortionate charges are commonly made for food, lodging, etc. 

SPONGIOLE:  A supposed spongelike expansion of the tip of a rootlet for absorbing water; -- called also spongelet. 

SPONGIOLITE:  One of the microsporic siliceous spicules which occur abundantly in the texture of sponges, and are sometimes found fossil, as in flints. 

SPONGIOPILIN:  A kind of cloth interwoven with small pieces of sponge and rendered waterproof on one side by a covering of rubber. When moistend with hot water it is used as a poultice.  SPONGIOSE; SPONGIOUS Spon"gi*ose`, Spon"gi*ous, a. Etym: [L. spongious, spongeosus: cf. F. spongieux. See Sponge.]  Somewhat spongy; spongelike; full of small cavities like sponge; as, spongious bones. 

SPONGIOZOA:  See Sponglæ. 

SPONGOBLAST:  One of the cells which, in sponges, secrete the spongin, or the material of the horny fibers. 

SPONGOID:  Resembling sponge; like sponge. 

SPONK:  See Spunk. 

SPONSAL:  Relating to marriage, or to a spouse; spousal. 

SPONSIBLE:  responsible; worthy of credit. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SPONSION:  An act or engagement on behalf of a state, by an agent not specially authorized for the purpose, or by one who exceeds the limits of authority. 

SPONSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a pledge or agreement; responsible. [R.] He is righteous even in that representative and sponsional person he put on. Abp. Leighton. 

SPONSORIAL:  Pertaining to a sponsor. 

SPONSORSHIP:  State of being a sponsor. 

SPONTOON:  A kind of half-pike, or halberd, formerly borne by inferior officers of the British infantry, and used in giving signals to the soldiers. 

SPOOK:  The chimæra. 

SPOOL:  A piece of cane or red with a knot at each end, or a hollow cylinder of wood with a ridge at each end, used to wind thread or yarn upon. Spool stand, an article holding spools of thread, turning on pins, -- used by women at their work. 

SPOOL:  To wind on a spool or spools. 

SPOOLER:  One who, or that which, spools. 

SPOOM:  To be driven steadily and swiftly, as before a strong wind; to be driven before the wind without any sail, or with only a part of the sails spread; to scud under bare poles. [Written also spoon.] When virtue spooms before a prosperous gale, My heaving wishes help to fill the sail. Dryden. 

SPOON:  See Spoom. [Obs.] We might have spooned before the wind as well as they. Pepys. 

SPOON:  To take up in, a spoon. 

SPOON:  To act with demonstrative or foolish fondness, as one in love. [Colloq.] 

SPOONBILL:  Having the bill expanded and spatulate at the end. 

SPOONDRIFT:  Spray blown from the tops waves during a gale at sea; also, snow driven in the wind at sea; -- written also spindrift. 

SPOONEY:  Weak-minded; demonstratively fond; as, spooney lovers. [Spelt also spoony.] [Colloq.] 

SPOONEY:  A weak-minded or silly person; one who is foolishly fond. [Colloq.] There is no doubt, whatever, that I was a lackadaisical young spooney. Dickens. 

SPOONFLOWER:  The yautia. 

SPOONILY:  In a spoony manner.  SPOON-MEAT Spoon"-meat`, n.  Food that is, or must be, taken with a spoon; liquid food. "Diet most upon spoon-meats." Harvey. 

SPOONWOOD:  The mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia). 

SPOONWORM:  A gephyrean worm of the genus Thalassema, having a spoonlike probiscis. 

SPOONWORT:  Scurvy grass. 

SPOONY:  Same as Spooney. 

SPOOR:  The track or trail of any wild animal; as, the spoor of an elephant; -- used originally by travelers in South Africa. 

SPOOR:  To follow a spoor or trail. [R.] 

SPORADES:  Stars not included in any constellation; -- called also informed, or unformed, stars. 

SPORADIAL:  Sporadic. [R.] 

SPORADIC:  Occuring singly, or apart from other things of the same kind, or in scattered instances; separate; single; as, a sporadic fireball; a sporadic case of disease; a sporadic example of a flower. Sporadic disease (Med.), a disease which occurs in single and scattered cases. See the Note under Endemic, a. 

SPORADICAL:  Sporadic. 

SPORADICALLY:  In a sporadic manner. 

SPORANGIOPHORE:  The axis or receptacle in certain ferns (as Trichomanes), which bears the sporangia. 

SPORANGIUM:  A spore case in the cryptogamous plants, as in ferns, etc. 

SPORID:  A sporidium. Lindley. 

SPORIDIFEROUS:  Bearing sporidia. 

SPORIFEROUS:  Bearing or producing spores. 

SPORIFICATION:  Spore formation. See Spore formation (b), under Spore. 

SPOROCYST:  An asexual zooid, usually forming one of a series of larval forms in the agamic reproduction of various trematodes and other parasitic worms. The sporocyst generally develops from an egg, but in its turn produces other larvæ by internal budding, or by the subdivision of a part or all of its contents into a number of minute germs. See Redia.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any protozoan when it becomes encysted produces germs by sporulation. 

SPOROGENESIS:  reproduction by spores. 

SPOROGONY:  The growth or development of an animal or a zooid from a nonsexual germ. 

SPOROPHORIC:  Having the nature of a sporophore. 

SPOROPHYTE:  In plants exhibiting alternation of generations, the generation which bears asexual spores; -- opposed to gametophyte. It is not clearly differentiated in the life cycle of the lower plants. -- Spo`ro*phyt"ic (#), a. 

SPOROZOA:  An extensive division of parasitic Protozoa, which increase by sporulation. It includes the Gregarinida. 

SPOROZOID:  Same as Zoöspore. 

SPOROZOITE:  In certain Sporozoa, a small active, usually elongate, sickle- shaped or somewhat amoboid spore, esp. one of those produced by division of the passive spores into which the zygote divides. The sporozoites reproduce asexually. 

SPORRAN:  A large purse or pouch made of skin with the hair or fur on, worn in front of the kilt by Highlanders when in full dress. 

SPORT:  A plant or an animal, or part of a plant or animal, which has some peculiarity not usually seen in the species; an abnormal variety or growth. See Sporting plant, under Sporting.  7. A sportsman; a gambler. [Slang] In sport, in jest; for play or diversion. "So is the man that deceiveth his neighbor, and saith, Am not I in sport" Prov. xxvi. 19.  Syn.  -- Play; game; diversion; frolic; mirth; mock; mockery; jeer. 

SPORT:  To assume suddenly a new and different character from the rest of the plant or from the type of the species; -- said of a bud, shoot, plant, or animal. See Sport, n., 6. Darwin.  Syn.  -- To play; frolic; game; wanton. 

SPORTABILITY:  Sportiveness. [Obs.] 

SPORTAL:  Of or pertaining to sports; used in sports. [R.] "Sportal arms." Dryden. 

SPORTER:  One who sports; a sportsman. As this gentleman and I have been old fellow sporters, I have a frienship for him. Goldsmith. 

SPORTING:  Of pertaining to, or engaging in, sport or sporrts; exhibiting the character or conduct of one who, or that which, sports. Sporting book, a book containing a record of bets, gambling operations, and the like. C. Kingsley.  -- Sporting house, a house frequented by sportsmen, gamblers, and the like.  -- Sporting man, one who practices field sports; also, a horse racer, a pugilist, a gambler, or the like.  -- Sporting plant (Bot.), a plant in which a single bud or offset suddenly assumes a new, and sometimes very different, character from that of the rest of the plant. Darwin. 

SPORTINGLY:  In sport; sportively. The question you there put, you do it, I suppose, but sportingly. Hammond. 

SPORTIVE:  Tending to, engaged in, or provocate of, sport; gay; froliscome; playful; merry. Is it I That drive thee from the sportive court Shak. -- Sport"ive*ly, adv.  -- Sport"ive*ness, n. 

SPORTLESS:  Without sport or mirth; joyless. 

SPORTLING:  A little person or creature engaged in sports or in play. When again the lambkins play --Pretty sportlings, full of May. Philips. 

SPORTSMAN:  One who pursues the sports of the field; one who hunts, fishes, etc. 

SPORTSMANSHIP:  The practice of sportsmen; skill in field sports. 

SPORTULA:  A gift; a present; a prize; hence, an alms; a largess. To feed luxuriously, to frequent sports and theaters, to run for the sportula. South. 

SPORTULARY:  Subsisting on alms or charitable contributions. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SPORTULE:  A charitable gift or contribution; a gift; an alms; a dole; a largess; a sportula. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

SPORULATION:  The act or process of forming spores; spore formation. See Illust. of Bacillus, b. 

SPORULE:  A small spore; a spore. 

SPORULIFEROUS:  Producing sporules. 

SPOT:  A variety of the common domestic pigeon, so called from a spot on its head just above its beak.  6. (Zoöl.) (a) A sciænoid food fish (Liostomus xanthurus) of the Atlantic coast of the United States. It has a black spot behind the shoulders and fifteen oblique dark bars on the sides. Called also goody, Lafayette, masooka, and old wife. (b) The southern redfish, or red horse, which has a spot on each side at the base of the tail. See Redfish.  7. pl.  Commodities, as merchandise and cotton, sold for immediate delivery. [Broker's Cant] Crescent spot (Zoöl.), any butterfly of the family Melitæidæ having crescent-shaped white spots along the margins of the red or brown wings.  -- Spot lens (Microscopy), a condensing lens in which the light is confined to an annular pencil by means of a small, round diaphragm (the spot), and used in dark-field ilumination; -- called also spotted lens.  -- Spot rump (Zoöl.), the Hudsonian godwit (Limosa hæmastica).  -- Spots on the sun. (Astron.) See Sun spot, ander Sun.  -- On, or Upon, the spot, immediately; before moving; without changing place. It was determined upon the spot. Swift.  Syn.  -- Stain; flaw; speck; blot; disgrace; reproach; fault; blemish; place; site; locality. 

SPOT:  To become stained with spots.  SPOT CASH Spot cash. (Com.)  Cash paid or ready for payment at once upon delivery of property purchased. 

SPOTLESS:  Without a spot; especially, free from reproach or impurity; pure; untained; innocent; as, a spotless mind; spotless behavior. A spotless virgin, and a faultless wife. Waller.  Syn.  -- Blameless; unspotted; unblemished; pure; immaculate; irreproachable. See Blameless.  -- Spot"less*ly, adv.  -- Spot"less*ness, n. 

SPOTLIGHT:  The projected spot or circle of light used to illuminate brilliantly a single person or object or group on the stage; leaving the rest of the stage more or less unilluminated; hence, conspicuous public notice. [Cant or Colloq.]  SPOT STROKE Spot stroke. (Eng. Billiards)  The pocketing of the red ball in a top corner pocket from off its own spot so as to leave the cue ball in position for an easy winning hazard in either top corner pocket. 

SPOTTED:  Marked with spots; as, a spotted garment or character. "The spotted panther." Spenser. Spotted fever (Med.), a name applied to various eruptive fevers, esp. to typhus fever and cerebro-spinal meningitis.  -- Spotted tree (Bot.), an Australian tree (Flindersia maculosa); -- so called because its bark falls off in spots. 

SPOTTEDNESS:  State or quality of being spotted. 

SPOTTER:  One who spots. 

SPOTTINESS:  The state or quality of being spotty. 

SPOTTY:  Full of spots; marked with spots. 

SPOUSAGE:  Espousal. [Obs.] Bale. 

SPOUSAL:  Of or pertaining to a spouse or marriage; nuptial; matrimonial; conjugal; bridal; as, spousal rites; spousal ornaments. Wordsworth. 

SPOUSAL:  Marriage; nuptials; espousal; -- generally used in the plural; as, the spousals of Hippolita. Dryden. Boweth your head under that blissful yoke . . . Which that men clepeth spousal or wedlock. Chaucer. the spousals of the newborn year. Emerson. 

SPOUSE:  To wed; to espouse. [Obs.] This markis hath her spoused with a ring. Chaucer. Though spoused, yet wanting wedlock's solemnize. Spenser. She was found again, and spoused to Marinell. Spenser.  SPOUSE-BREACH Spouse"-breach`, n.  Adultery. [Obs.] 

SPOUSELESS:  Destitute of a spouse; unmarried. 

SPOUSESS:  A wife or bride. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

SPOUTER:  One who, or that which, spouts. 

SPOUTFISH:  A marine animal that spouts water; -- applied especially to certain bivalve mollusks, like the long clams (Mya), which spout, or squirt out, water when retiring into their holes. 

SPOUTLESS:  Having no spout. Cowper. 

SPOUTSHELL:  Any marine gastropod shell of the genus Apporhais having an elongated siphon. See Illust. under Rostrifera. 

SPRACK:  Quick; lively' alert. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

SPRAD:  p. p. of Spread. Chaucer. 

SPRADDE:  imp. of Spread. Chaucer. 

SPRAG:  A young salmon. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPRAG:  A billet of wood; a piece of timber used as a prop. 

SPRAG:  See Sprack, a. Shak. 

SPRAIN:  To weaken, as a joint, ligament, or muscle, by sudden and excessive exertion, as by wrenching; to overstrain, or stretch injuriously, but without luxation; as, to sprain one's ankle. 

SPRAIN:  The act or result of spraining; lameness caused by spraining; as, a bad sprain of the wrist. Sprain fracture (Med.), the separation of a tendon from its point of insertion, with the detachment of a shell of bone to which the tendon is attached. 

SPRAINTS:  The dung of an otter. 

SPRANG:  imp. of Spring. 

SPRAWLS:  Small branches of a tree; twigs; sprays. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SPRAYBOARD:  See Dashboard, n., 2 (b). 

SPRAYER:  One that sprays; any instrument for vaporizing and spraying liquids. 

SPREAD:  An unlimited expanse of discontinuous points. 

SPREAD:  imp. & p. p. of Spread, v. Spread eagle. (a) An eagle with outspread wings, the national emblem of the United States. (b) The figure of an eagle, with its wings elevated and its legs extended; often met as a device upon military ornaments, and the like. (c) (Her.) An eagle displayed; an eagle with the wings and legs extended on each side of the body, as in the double-headed eagle of Austria and Russia. See Displayed, 2.  SPREAD-EAGLE Spread"-ea`gle, a.  Characterized by a pretentious, boastful, exaggerated style; defiantly or extravagantly bombastic; as, a spread-eagle orator; a spread-eagle speech. [Colloq.& Humorous]  SPREAD-EAGLE Spread"-ea`gle v. i.  To assume a spread-eagled position; -- it may be done reclining, for relaxation, or momentarily, as an exhibitionary maneuver in a sport.  SPREAD-EAGLED Spread"-ea`gled v.tr.  1. To place in a spread-eagle position, especially as a means of punishment. 2. being in a position with the arms and legs extended fully. 

SPREADINGLY:  , adv. Increasingly. The best times were spreadingly infected. Milton. 

SPRECHERY:  Movables of an inferior description; especially, such as have been collected by depredation. [Scot] 

SPREE:  A merry frolic; especially, a drinking frolic; a carousal. [Colloq.] 

SPRENGE:  To sprinkle; to scatter. [Obs.] Wyclif (1 Pet. i. 2).  SPRENGEL PUMP Spreng"el pump`. (Physics)  A form of air pump in which exhaustion is produced by a stream of mercury running down a narrow tube, in the manner of an aspirator; -- named from the inventor. 

SPRENT:  p. p. of Sprenge. Sprinkled. All the ground with purple blood was sprent. Spenser. 

SPREW:  Thrush. [Local, U.S.] 

SPREYND:  p. p. of Sprenge. Sprinkled. When spreynd was holy water. Chaucer. 

SPRIG:  A small eyebolt ragged or barbed at the point. 

SPRIG:  To mark or adorn with the representation of small branches; to work with sprigs; as, to sprig muslin. 

SPRIGGED:  Having sprigs. 

SPRIGGY:  Full of sprigs or small branches. 

SPRIGHT:  To haunt, as a spright. [Obs.] Shak. 

SPRIGHTFUL:  Full of spirit or of life; earnest; vivacious; lively; brisk; nimble; gay. [Obs.] -- Spright"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] Shak.  -- Spright"ful*ness, n. [Obs.] Spoke like a sprightful gentlemen. Shak. Steeds sprightful as the light. Cowley. 

SPRIGHTLESS:  Destitute of life; dull; sluggish. 

SPRIGHTLINESS:  The quality or state of being sprightly; liveliness; life; briskness; vigor; activity; gayety; vivacity. In dreams, observe with what a sprightliness and alacrity does she [the soul] exert herself! Addison. 

SPRIGHTLY:  Sprightlike, or spiritlike; lively; brisk; animated; vigorous; airy; gay; as, a sprightly youth; a sprightly air; a sprightly dance. "Sprightly wit and love inspires." Dryden. The sprightly Sylvia trips along the green. Pope. 

SPRING:  An active, springly young man. [Obs.] "There came two springals of full tender years." Spenser. Joseph, when he was sold to Potiphar, that great man, was a fair young springall. Latimer. 

SPRINGAL:  An ancient military engine for casting stones and arrows by means of a spring. 

SPRINGBOARD:  An elastic board, secured at the ends, or at one end, often by elastic supports, used in performing feats of agility or in exercising.  SPRINGBOK; SPRINGBUCK Spring"bok`, Spring"buck`, n. Etym: [D. springbok; springen to spring, leap + bok a he-goat, buck.] (Zoöl.)  A South African gazelle (Gazella euchore) noted for its graceful form and swiftness, and for its peculiar habit of springing lighty and suddenly into the air. It has a white dorsal stripe, expanding into a broad patch of white on the rump and tail. Called also springer. [Written also springboc, and springbock.] 

SPRINGE:  A noose fastened to an elastic body, and drawn close with a sudden spring, whereby it catches a bird or other animal; a gin; a snare. As a woodcock to mine own springe. Shak. 

SPRINGE:  To catch in a springe; to insnare. [R.] 

SPRINGE:  To sprinkle; to scatter. [Obs.] He would sowen some difficulty, Or springen cockle in our cleane corn. Chaucer. 

SPRINGER:  The grampus.  5. (Zoöl.)  A variety of the field spaniel. See Spaniel.  6. (Zoöl.)  A species of antelope; the sprinkbok. 

SPRINGHALT:  A kind of lameness in horse. See Stringhalt. Shak. 

SPRINGHEAD:  A fountain or source. 

SPRINGINESS:  The state or quality of being springly. Boyle. 

SPRINGLE:  A springe. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPRINGLET:  A little spring. But yet from out the little hill Oozes the slender springlet still. Sir W. Scott.  SPRING STEEL Spring steel.  A variety of steel, elastic, strong, and tough, rolled for springs, etc. 

SPRINGTAIL:  Any one of numerous species of small apterous insects belonging to the order Thysanura. They have two elastic caudal stylets which can be bent under the abdomen and then suddenly extended like a spring, thus enabling them to leap to a considerable distance. See Collembola, and Podura. 

SPRINGTIDE:  The time of spring; springtime. Thomson. 

SPRINGTIME:  The season of spring; springtide. 

SPRINT:  To run very rapidly; to run at full speed. A runner [in a quarter-mile race] should be able to sprint the whole way. Encyc. Brit. 

SPRINT:  The act of sprinting; a run of a short distance at full speed. Sprint race, a foot race at the highest running speed; -- usually limited to distance under a quarter of a mile. 

SPRINTER:  One who sprints; one who runs in sprint races; as, a champion sprinter. 

SPRIT:  To throw out with force from a narrow orifice; to eject; to spurt out. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SPRIT:  To sprout; to bud; to germinate, as barley steeped for malt. 

SPRIT:  A shoot; a sprout. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

SPRIT:  A small boom, pole, or spar, which crosses the sail of a boat diagonally from the mast to the upper aftmost corner, which it is used to extend and elevate. 

SPRITE:  The green woodpecker, or yaffle.  SPRITEFUL; SPRITEFULLY; SPRITELINESS; SPRITELY Sprite"ful, a. Sprite"ful*ly, adv., Sprite"li*ness (, n., Sprite"ly, a., etc.  See Sprightful, Sprightfully, Sprightliness, Sprightly, etc. 

SPRITSAIL:  Same as Chain wheel. 

SPROD:  A salmon in its second year. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPRONG:  imp. of Spring. Sprung. 

SPROUT:  Young coleworts; Brussels sprouts. Johnson. Brussels sprouts (Bot.) See under Brussels. 

SPRUCE:  Any coniferous tree of the genus Picea, as the Norway spruce (P. excelsa), and the white and black spruces of America (P. alba and P. nigra), besides several others in the far Northwest. See Picea.  2. The wood or timber of the spruce tree.  3. Prussia leather; pruce. [Obs.] Spruce, a sort of leather corruptly so called for Prussia leather. E. Phillips. Douglas spruce (Bot.), a valuable timber tree (Pseudotsuga Douglasii) of Northwestern America.  -- Essence of spruce, a thick, dark-colored, bitterish, and acidulous liquid made by evaporating a decoction of the young branches of spruce.  -- Hemlock spruce (Bot.), a graceful coniferous tree (Tsuga Canadensis) of North America. Its timber is valuable, and the bark is largely used in tanning leather.  -- Spruce beer. Etym: [G. sprossenbier; sprosse sprout, shoot (akin to E. sprout, n.) + bier beer. The word was changed into spruce because the beer came from Prussia (OE. Spruce), or because it was made from the sprouts of the spruce. See Sprout, n., Beer, and cf. Spruce, n.] A kind of beer which is tinctured or flavored with spruce, either by means of the extract or by decoction.  -- Spruce grouse. (Zoöl.) Same as Spruce partridge, below.  -- Spruce leather. See Spruce, n., 3.  -- Spruce partridge (Zoöl.), a handsome American grouse (Dendragapus Canadensis) found in Canada and the Northern United States; -- called also Canada grouse. 

SPRUCE:  To dress with affected neatness; to trim; to make spruce. 

SPRUCE:  To dress one's self with affected neatness; as, to spruce up. 

SPRUE:  Same as Sprew. 

SPRUG:  To make smart. [Obs.] 

SPRUNG:  imp. & p. p. of Spring. 

SPRUNG:  Said of a spar that has been cracked or strained. 

SPRUNT:  To spring up; to germinate; to spring forward or outward. [Obs.] To sprunt up, to draw one's self up suddenly, as in anger or defiance; to bristle up. [Local, U.S.] 

SPRUNT:  Active; lively; vigorous. [Obs.] Kersey. 

SPRUNTLY:  In a sprunt manner; smartly; vigorously; youthfully. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SPRY:  Having great power of leaping or running; nimble; active. [U.S. & Local Eng.] She is as spry as a cricket. S. Judd (Margaret). If I'm not so large as you, You are not so small as I, And not half so spry. Emerson. 

SPUE:  See Spew. 

SPUILZIE:  See Spulzie. 

SPUKE:  See Spook. 

SPULLER:  One employed to inspect yarn, to see that it is well spun, and fit for the loom. [Prov. Eng.] 

SPULZIE:  Plunder, or booty. [Written also spuilzie, and spulye.] Sir W. Scott. 

SPUME:  Frothy matter raised on liquids by boiling, effervescence, or agitation; froth; foam; scum. Materials dark and crude, Of spiritous and fiery spume. Milton. 

SPUME:  To froth; to foam. 

SPUMEOUS:  Spumous. [Obs.] r. H. More. 

SPUMESCENCE:  The state of being foamy; frothiness. 

SPUMESCENT:  Resembling froth or foam; foaming. 

SPUMID:  Spumous; frothy. [Obs.] 

SPUMIFEROUS:  Producing foam. 

SPUMINESS:  The quality or condition of being spumy; spumescence.  SPUMOUS; SPUMY Spum"ous, Spum"y, a. Etym: [L. spumosus, spuma foam: cf. F. spumeux.]  Consisting of, containing, or covered with, froth, scum, or foam; frothy; foamy. The spumous and florid state of the blood. Arbuthnot. The spumy waves proclaim the watery war. Dryden. 

SPUN:  imp. & p. p. of Spin. Spun hay, hay twisted into ropes for convenient carriage, as on a military expedition.  -- Spun silk, a cheap article produced from floss, or short-fibered, broken, and waste silk, carded and spun, in distinction from the long filaments wound from the cocoon. It is often mixed with cotton.  -- Spun yarn (Naut.), a line formed of two or more rope-yarns loosely twisted. 

SPUNGE:  A sponge. [Obs.] 

SPUNKY:  Full of spunk; quick; spirited. [Colloq.] 

SPUR:  Any stiff, sharp spine, as on the wings and legs of certain burds, on the legs of insects, etc.; especially, the spine on a cock's leg.  6. A mountain that shoots from any other mountain, or range of mountains, and extends to some distance in a lateral direction, or at right angles.  7. A spiked iron worn by seamen upon the bottom of the boot, to enable them to stand upon the carcass of a whale, to strip off the blubber.  8. (Carp.)  A brace strengthening a post and some connected part, as a rafter or crossbeam; a strut.  9. (Arch.) (a) The short wooden buttress of a post. (b) A projection from the round base of a column, occupying the angle of a square plinth upon which the base rests, or bringing the bottom bed of the base to a nearly square form. It is generally carved in leafage.  10. (Bot.) (a) Any projecting appendage of a flower looking like a spur. Gray. (b) Ergotized rye or other grain. [R.]  11. (Fort.)  A wall that crosses a part of a rampart and joins to an inner wall.  12. (Shipbuilding) (a) A piece of timber fixed on the bilge ways before launching, having the upper ends bolted to the vessel's side. (b) A curved piece of timber serving as a half to support the deck where a whole beam can not be placed. Spur fowl (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Asiatic gallinaceous birds of the genus Galloperdix, allied to the jungle fowl. The males have two or more spurs on each leg.  -- Spur gear (Mach.), a cogwheel having teeth which project radially and stand parallel to the axis; a spur wheel.  -- Spur gearing, gearing in which spur gears are used. See under Gearing.  -- Spur pepper. (Bot.) See the Note under Capsicum.  -- Spur wheel. Same as Spur gear, above. 

SPUR:  To spur on one's horse; to travel with great expedition; to hasten; hence, to press forward in any pursuit. "Now spurs the lated traveler." Shak. The Parthians shall be there, And, spurring from the fight, confess their fear. Dryden. The roads leading to the capital were covered with multitudes of yeomen, spurring hard to Westminster. Macaulay. Some bold men, . . . by spurring on, refine themselves. Grew. 

SPURGALL:  A place galled or excoriated by much using of the spur. 

SPURGALL:  To gall or wound with a spur. 

SPURGE:  To emit foam; to froth; -- said of the emission of yeast from beer in course of fermentation. [Obs.] W. Cartright. 

SPURGE:  Any plant of the genus Euphobia. See Euphorbia. Spurge flax, an evergreen shrub (Daphne Gnidium) with crowded narrow leaves. It is native of Southern Europe.  -- Spurge laurel, a European shrub (Daphne Laureola) with oblong evergreen leaves.  -- Spurge nettle. See under Nettle.  -- Spurge olive, an evergreen shrub (Daphne oleoides) found in the Mediterranean region. 

SPURGEWORT:  Any euphorbiaceous plant. Lindley. 

SPURGING:  A purging. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SPURLESS:  Having no spurs. 

SPURLING:  A tern. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Tusser.  SPURLING-LINE Spur"ling-line`, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. spurling the rut of a wheel, a cart rut, AS. spor a track, trace, E. spoor. Scot. spurl to sprawl.] (Naut.)  The line which forms the communication between the steering wheel and the telltale. 

SPURN:  A body of coal left to sustain an overhanding mass. 

SPURNER:  One who spurns.  SPURN-WATER Spurn"-wa`ter, n. (Naut.)  A channel at the end of a deck to restrain the water. 

SPURRER:  One who spurs. 

SPURREY:  See Spurry. 

SPURRIER:  One whose occupation is to make spurs. B. Jonson. "The saddlers and spurriers would be ruined by thousands." Macaulay.  SPUR-ROYAL Spur"-roy`al, n.  A gold coin, first made in the reign of Edward IV., having a star on the reverse resembling the rowel of a spur. In the reigns of Elizabeth and of James I., its value was fifteen shillings. [Written also spur-rial, and spur-ryal.] 

SPURRY:  An annual herb (Spergula arvensis) with whorled filiform leaves, sometimes grown in Europe for fodder. [Written also spurrey.] Sand spurry (Bot.), any low herb of the genus Lepigonum, mostly found in sandy places.  SPUR-SHELL Spur"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of handsome gastropod shells of the genus Trochus, or Imperator. The shell is conical, with the margin toothed somewhat like the rowel of a spur. 

SPURT:  To gush or issue suddenly or violently out in a stream, as liquor from a cask; to rush from a confined place in a small stream or jet; to spirt. Thus the small jet, which hasty hands unlock, Spurts in the gardener's eyes who turns the cock. Pope. 

SPURT:  To throw out, as a liquid, in a stream or jet; to drive or force out with violence, as a liquid from a pipe or small orifice; as, to spurt water from the mouth. 

SPURT:  A sudden and energetic effort, as in an emergency; an increased exertion for a brief space. The long, steady sweep of the so-called "paddle" tried him almost as much as the breathless strain of the spurt. T. Hughes. 

SPURT:  To make a sudden and violent exertion, as in an emergency. 

SPURTLE:  To spurt or shoot in a scattering manner. [Obs.] Drayton. 

SPURWAY:  A bridle path. [R.]  SPUR-WINGED Spur"-winged`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having one or more spurs on the bend of the wings. Spur-winged goose (Zoöl.), any one of several species of long-legged African geese of the genus Plectropterus and allied genera, having a strong spur on the bend of the wing, as the Gambo goose (P. Gambensis) and the Egyptian, or Nile, goose (Alopochen Ægyptiaca).  -- Spur-winged plover (Zoöl.), an Old World plover (Hoplopterus spinosus) having a sharp spur on the bend of the wing. It inhabits Northern Africa and the adjacent parts of Asia and Europe. 

SPUT:  An annular reënforce, to strengthen a place where a hole is made. 

SPUTATION:  The act of spitting; expectoration. Harvey. 

SPUTATIVE:  Inclined to spit; spitting much. Sir H. Wotton. 

SPUTE:  To dispute; to discuss. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

SPUTTER:  To spit out hastily by quick, successive efforts, with a spluttering sound; to utter hastily and confusedly, without control over the organs of speech. In the midst of caresses, and without the last pretend incitement, to sputter out the basest accusations. Swift. 

SPUTTER:  Moist matter thrown out in small detached particles; also, confused and hasty speech. 

SPUTTERER:  One who sputters. 

SPUTUM:  That which is expectorated; a salival discharge; spittle; saliva. 

SPY:  To gain sight of; to discover at a distance, or in a state of concealment; to espy; to see. One in reading, skipped over all sentences where he spied a note of admiration. Swift.  2. To discover by close search or examination. Look about with yout eyes; spy what things are to be reformed in the church of England. Latimer.  3. To explore; to view; inspect; and examine secretly, as a country; -- usually with out. Moses sent to spy Jaazer, and they took the villages thereof. Num. xxi. 32. 

SPY:  To search narrowly; to scrutinize. It is my nature's plague To spy into abuses. Shak. 

SPY:  A person sent secretly into an enemy's camp, territory, or fortifications, to inspect his works, ascertain his strength, movements, or designs, and to communicate such intelligence to the proper officer. Spy money, money paid to a spy; the reward for private or secret intelligence regarding the enemy.  -- Spy Wednesday (Eccl.), the Wednesday immediately preceding the festival of Easter; -- so called in allusion to the betrayal of Christ by Judas Iscariot.  Syn.  -- See Emissary, and Scout. 

SPYBOAT:  A boat sent to make discoveries and bring intelligence. Arbuthnot. 

SPYGLASS:  A small telescope for viewing distant terrestrial objects. 

SPYISM:  , n. Act or business of spying. [R.]  SPYNACE; SPYNE Spy"nace, Spyne, n. (Naut.)  See Pinnace, n., 1 (a). 

SQUAB:  A neatling of a pigeon or other similar bird, esp. when very fat and not fully fledged.  2. A person of a short, fat figure. Gorgonious sits abdominous and wan, Like a fat squab upon a Chinese fan. Cowper.  3. A thickly stuffed cushion; especially, one used for the seat of a sofa, couch, or chair; also, a sofa. Punching the squab of chairs and sofas. Dickens. On her large squab you find her spread. Pope. 

SQUAB:  With a heavy fall; plump. [Vulgar] The eagle took the tortoise up into the air, and dropped him down, squab, upon a rock. L'Estrange. 

SQUAB:  To fall plump; to strike at one dash, or with a heavy stroke. [Obs.] 

SQUABASH:  To crush; to quash; to squash. [Colloq. or Slang, Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SQUABBISH:  Thick; fat; heavy. 

SQUABBLE:  To disarrange, so that the letters or lines stand awry or are mixed and need careful readjustment; -- said of type that has been set up. 

SQUABBLE:  A scuffle; a wrangle; a brawl. 

SQUABBLER:  One who squabbles; a contentious person; a brawler. 

SQUABBY:  Short and thick; suqabbish.  SQUAB-CHICK Squab"-chick`, n. (Zoöl.)  A young chicken before it is fully fledged. [Prov. Eng.] 

SQUACCO:  A heron (Ardea comata) found in Asia, Northern Africa, and Southern Europe. 

SQUAD:  A small party of men assembled for drill, inspection, or other purposes.  2. Hence, any small party. 

SQUAD:  Sloppy mud. [Prov. Eng.] Tennyson. 

SQUADRON:  A body of cavarly comparising two companies or troops, and averging from one hundred and twenty to two hundred men.  3. (Naut.)  A detachment of vessels employed on any particular service or station, under the command of the senior officer; as, the North Atlantic Squadron. Totten. Flying squadron, a squadron of observation or practice, that cruises rapidly about from place to place. Ham. Nav. Encyc. 

SQUADRONED:  Formed into squadrons, or squares. [R.] Milton. 

SQUAIL:  To throw sticls at cocks; to throw anything about awkwardly or irregularly. [Prov. Eng.] Southey. 

SQUAIMOUS:  Squeamish. [Obs.] 

SQUALI:  The suborder of elasmobranch fishes which comprises the sharks. 

SQUALID:  Dirty through neglect; foul; filthy; extremely dirty. Uncomed his locks, and squalid his attrie. Dryden. Those squalid dens, which are the reproach of large capitals. Macaulay. 

SQUALIDITY:  The quality or state of being squalid; foulness; filthiness. 

SQUALIDLY:  In a squalid manner. 

SQUALIDNESS:  Quality or state of being squalid. 

SQUALL:  A sudden violent gust of wind often attended with rain or snow. The gray skirts of a lifting squall. Tennyson. Black squall, a squall attended with dark, heavy clouds.  -- Thick squall, a black squall accompanied by rain, hail, sleet, or snow. Totten.  -- White squall, a squall which comes unexpectedly, without being marked in its approach by the clouds. Totten. 

SQUALL:  To cry out; to scream or cry violently, as a woman frightened, or a child in anger or distress; as, the infant squalled. 

SQUALL:  A loud scream; a harsh cry. There oft are heard the notes of infant woe, -The short, thick sob, loud scream, and shriller squall. Pope. 

SQUALLER:  One who squalls; a screamer. 

SQUALLY:  Interrupted by unproductive spots; -- said of a flied of turnips or grain. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  3. (Weaving)  Not equally good throughout; not uniform; uneven; faulty; -- said of cloth. 

SQUALODON:  A genus of fossil whales belonging to the Phocodontia; -- so called because their are serrated, like a shark's. 

SQUALODONT:  Pertaining to Squalodon. 

SQUALOID:  Like or pertaining to a shark or sharks. 

SQUALOR:  Squalidness; foulness; filthness; squalidity. The heterogenous indigent multitude, everywhere wearing nearly the same aspect of squalor. Taylor. To bring this sort of squalor among the upper classes. Dickens. 

SQUAM:  An oilskin hat or southwester; -- a fisherman's name. [U. S.] 

SQUAMA:  A scale cast off from the skin; a thin dry shred consisting of epithelium. 

SQUAMACEOUS:  Squamose. 

SQUAMATA:  A division of edentates having the body covered with large, imbricated horny scales. It includes the pangolins.  SQUAMATE; SQUAMATED Squa"mate, Squa"ma*ted, a. Etym: [L. squamatus.]  Same as Squamose. 

SQUAMDUCK:  The American eider duck. [Local, U.S.] 

SQUAME:  The scale, or exopodite, of an antenna of a crustacean. 

SQUAMELLA:  A diminutive scale or bractlet, such as those found on the receptacle in many composite plants; a palea. 

SQUAMELLATE:  Furnished or covered with little scales; squamulose. 

SQUAMIFORM:  Having the shape of a scale. 

SQUAMIGEROUS:  Bearing scales. 

SQUAMIPEN:  Any one of a group of fishes having the dorsal and anal fins partially covered with scales.  Note: They are compressed and mostly, bright-colored tropical fishes, belonging to Chætodon and allied genera. Many of them are called soral fishes, and angel fishes. 

SQUAMOID:  Resembling a scale; also, covered with scales; scaly. 

SQUAMOSAL:  The squamous part of the temporal bone, or a bone correspondending to it, under Temporal.  SQUAMOSE; SQUAMOUS Squa*mose" or, Squa"mous, Etym: [L. squamosus, fr. squama a scale: cf. F. squameux.]  1. Covered with, or consisting of, scales; resembling a scale; scaly; as, the squamose cones of the pine; squamous epithelial cells; the squamous portion of the temporal bone, which is so called from a fancied resemblance to a scale.  2. (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to the squamosal bone; squamosal. 

SQUAMOZYGOMATIC:  Of or pertaining to both the squamosal and zygomatic bones; -- applied to a bone, or a center of ossification, in some fetal skulls.  -- n.  A squamozygomatic bone. 

SQUAMULA:  One of the little hypogynous scales found in the flowers of grasses; a lodicule. 

SQUAMULATE:  Same as Squamulose. 

SQUAMULE:  Same as Squamula. 

SQUAMULOSE:  Having little scales; squamellate; squamulate. 

SQUANDER:  The act of squandering; waste. 

SQUANDERER:  One who squanders. 

SQUANDERINGLY:  In a squandering manner. 

SQUARE:  An instrument having at least one right angle and two or more straight edges, used to lay out or test square work. It is of several forms, as the T square, the carpenter's square, the try-square., etc.  5. Hence, a pattern or rule. [Obs.]  6. (Arith. & Alg.)  The product of a number or quantity multiplied by itself; thus, 64 is the square of 8, for 8 × 8 = 64; the square of a + b is a2 + 2ab + b2.  7. Exact proportion; justness of workmanship and conduct; regularity; rule. [Obs.] They of Galatia [were] much more out of square. Hooker. I have not kept my square. Shak.  8. (Mil.)  A body of troops formed in a square, esp. one formed to resist a charge of cavalry; a squadron. "The brave squares of war." Shak.  9. Fig.: The relation of harmony, or exact agreement; equality; level. We live not on the square with such as these. Dryden.  10. (Astrol.)  The position of planets distant ninety degrees from each other; a quadrate. [Obs.]  11. The act of squaring, or quarreling; a quarrel. [R.]  12. The front of a woman's dress over the bosom, usually worked or embroidered. [Obs.] Shak. Geometrical square. See Quadrat, n., 2.  -- Hollow square (Mil.), a formation of troops in the shape of a square, each side consisting of four or five ranks, and the colors, officers, horses, etc., occupying the middle.  -- Least square, Magic square, etc. See under Least, Magic, etc.  -- On the square, or Upon the square, in an open, fair manner; honestly, or upon honor. [Obs. or Colloq.] -- On, or Upon, the square with, upon equality with; even with. Nares.  -- To be all squares, to be all settled. [Colloq.] Dickens.  -- To be at square, to be in a state of quarreling. [Obs.] Nares.  -- To break no square, to give no offense; to make no difference. [Obs.] -- To break squares, to depart from an accustomed order. To see how the squares go, to see how the game proceeds; -- a phrase taken from the game of chess, the chessboard being formed with squares. [Obs.] L'Estrange. 

SQUARE:  Having four equal sides and four right angles; as, a square figure.  2. Forming a right angle; as, a square corner.  3. Having a shape broad for the height, with rectilineal and angular rather than curving outlines; as, a man of a square frame.  4. Exactly suitable or correspondent; true; just. She's a most truimphant lady, if report be square to her. Shak.  5. Rendering equal justice; exact; fair; honest, as square dealing.  6. Even; leaving no balance; as, to make or leave the accounts square.  7. Leaving nothing; hearty; vigorous. By Heaven, square eaters. More meat, I say. Beau. & Fl.  8. (Naut.)  At right angles with the mast or the keel, and parallel to the horizon; -- said of the yards of a square-rigged vessel when they are so braced.  Note: Square is often used in self-explaining compounds or combination, as in square-built, square-cornered, square-cut, square- nosed, etc. Square foot, an area equal to that of a square the sides of which are twelwe inches; 144 square inches.  -- Square knot, a knot in which the terminal and standing parts are parallel to each other; a reef knot. See Illust. under Knot.  -- Square measure, the measure of a superficies or surface which depends on the length and breadth taken conjointly. The units of square measure are squares whose sides are the linear measures; as, square inches, square feet, square meters, etc.  -- Square number. See square, n., 6.  -- Square root of a number or quantity (Math.), that number or quantity which, multiplied by itself produces the given number or quantity.  -- Square sail (Naut.), a four-sided sail extended upon a yard suspended by the middle; sometimes, the foresail of a schooner set upon a yard; also, a cutter's or sloop's sail boomed out. See Illust of Sail.  -- Square stern (Naut.), a stern having a transom and joining the counter timbers at an angle, as distinguished from a round stern, which has no transom.  -- Three-square, Five-square, etc., having three, five, etc., equal sides; as, a three-square file.  -- To get square with, to get even with; to pay off. [Colloq.] 

SQUARE:  To multiply by itself; as, to square a number or a quantity.  7. (Astrol.)  To hold a quartile position respecting. The icy Goat and Crab that square the Scales. Creech.  8. (Naut.)  To place at right angles with the keel; as, to square the yards. To square one's shoulders, to raise the shoulders so as to give them a square appearance, -- a movement expressing contempt or dislike. Sir W. Scott.  -- To square the circle (Math.), to determine the exact contents of a circle in square measure. The solution of this famous problem is now generally admitted to be impossible. 

SQUARELY:  In a square form or manner. 

SQUARENESS:  The quality of being square; as, an instrument to try the squareness of work. 

SQUARER:  Having the sails extended upon yards suspended horizontally by the middle, as distinguished from fore-and-aft sails; thus, a ship and a brig are square-rigged vessels.  SQUARE-TOED Square"-toed` (-tod`), n.  Having the toe square. Obsolete as fardingales, ruffs, and square-toed shoes. V. Knox.  SQUARE-TOES Square"-toes`, n.  A precise person; -- used contemptuously or jocularly. Thackeray. 

SQUARISH:  Nearly square. Pennant. 

SQUARROSE:  Ragged or full of lose scales or projecting parts; rough; jagged; as: (a) (Bot. & Zoöl.) Consisting of scales widely divaricating; having scales, small leaves, or other bodies, spreading widely from the axis on which they are crowded; -- said of a calyx or stem. (b) (Bot.)  Divided into shreds or jags, raised above the plane of the leaf, and not parallel to it; said of a leaf. (c) (Zoöl.) Having scales spreading every way, or standing upright, or at right angles to the surface; -- said of a shell. Squarrose- slashed (Bot.), doubly slashed, with the smaller divisions at right angles to the others, as a leaf. Landley.  SQUARROSO-DENTATE Squar*ro`so-den"tate, a. (Bot.)  Having the teeth bent out of the plane of the lamina; -- said of a leaf. 

SQUARROUS:  Squarrose. 

SQUARRULOSE:  Somewhat squarrose; slightly squarrose. Gray. 

SQUASH:  An American animal allied to the weasel. [Obs.] Goldsmith. 

SQUASH:  A plant and its fruit of the genus Cucurbita, or gourd kind.  Note: The species are much confused. The long-neck squash is called Cucurbita verrucosa, the Barbary or China squash, C. moschata, and the great winter squash, C. maxima, but the distinctions are not clear. Squash beetle (Zoöl.), a small American beetle (Diabrotica, or Galeruca vittata) which is often abundant and very injurious to the leaves of squash, cucumber, etc. It is striped with yellow and black. The name is applied also to other allied species.  -- Squash bug (Zoöl.), a large black American hemipterous insect (Coreus, or Anasa, tristis) injurious to squash vines. 

SQUASH:  To beat or press into pulp or a flat mass; to crush. 

SQUASHER:  One who, or that which, squashes. 

SQUASHINESS:  The quality or state of being squashy, or soft. 

SQUASHY:  Easily squashed; soft. 

SQUAT:  The angel fish (Squatina angelus 

SQUAT:  To bruise or make flat by a fall. [Obs.] 

SQUATEROLE:  The black-bellied plover. 

SQUATTER:  See Squat snipe, under Squat. Squatter sovereignty, the right claimed by the squatters, or actual residents, of a Territory of the United States to make their own laws. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett. 

SQUATTY:  Squat; dumpy. J. Burroughs. 

SQUAW:  A female; a woman; -- in the language of Indian tribes of the Algonquin family, correlative of sannup. Old squaw. (Zoöl.) See under Old. 

SQUAWBERRY:  A local name for the partridge berry; also, for the deerberry. [U. S.] 

SQUAWK:  To utter a shrill, abrupt scream; to squeak harshly. Squawking thrush (Zoöl.), the missel turush; -- so called from its note when alarmed. [Prov. Eng.] 

SQUAWK:  The American night heron. See under Night. Squawk duck (Zoöl.), the bimaculate duck (Anas glocitans). It has patches of reddish brown behind, and in front of, each eye. [Prov. Eng.] 

SQUAWL:  See Squall.  SQUAW MAN Squaw man.  A white man who has married an Indian squaw; sometimes, one who has gained tribal rights by such a marriage; -- often a term of contempt. [Western U. S.] 

SQUAWROOT:  A scaly parasitic plant (Conopholis Americana) found in oak woods in the United States; -- called also cancer root.  SQUAW VINE Squaw vine. (Bot.)  The partridge berry (Mitchella repens). 

SQUAWWEED:  The golden ragwort. See under Ragwort. 

SQUEAK:  A sharp, shrill, disagreeable sound suddenly utered, either of the human voice or of any animal or instrument, such as is made by carriage wheels when dry, by the soles of leather shoes, or by a pipe or reed. 

SQUEAKER:  The Australian gray crow shrile (Strepera anaphonesis); -- so called from its note. 

SQUEAKINGLY:  In a squeaking manner. 

SQUEAL:  A shrill, somewhat prolonged cry. 

SQUEAMISH:  Having a stomach that is easily or nauseated; hence, nice to excess in taste; fastidious; easily disgusted; apt to be offended at trifling improprieties. Quoth he, that honor's very squeamish That takes a basting for a blemish. Hudibras. His muse is rustic, and perhaps too plain The men of squeamish taste to entertain. Southern. So ye grow squeamish, Gods, and sniff at heaven. M. Arnold.  Syn.  -- Fastidious; dainty; overnice; scrupulous. See Fastidious.  -- Squeam"ish*ly, adv.  -- Squeam"ish*ness, n. 

SQUEAMOUS:  Squeamish. [Obs.] 

SQUEASINESS:  Queasiness. [Obs.] 

SQUEASY:  Queasy; nice; squeamish; fastidious; scrupulous. [Obs.] Bp. Earle. 

SQUEEGEE:  Same as Squilgee.  SQUEEGEE ROLLER Squeegee roller.  A small India-rubber roller with a handle, used esp. in printing and photography as a squeegee. 

SQUEEZE:  To press; to urge one's way, or to pass, by pressing; to crowd; -- often with through, into, etc.; as, to squeeze hard to get through a crowd. 

SQUEEZING:  That which is forced out by pressure; dregs.  3. Same as Squeeze, n., 2. 

SQUELCH:  To quell; to crush; to silence or put down. [Colloq.] Oh 't was your luck and mine to be squelched. Beau. & Fl. If you deceive us you will be squelched. Carlyle. 

SQUELCH:  A heavy fall, as of something flat; hence, also, a crushing reply. [Colloq.] Hudibras. 

SQUETEAGUE:  An American sciænoid fish (Cynoscion regalis), abundant on the Atlantic coast of the United States, and much valued as a food fish. It is of a bright silvery color, with iridescent reflections. Called also weakfish, squitee, chickwit, and sea trout. The spotted squeteague (C. nebulosus) of the Southern United States is a similar fish, but the back and upper fins are spotted with black. It is called also spotted weakfish, and, locally, sea trout, and sea salmon. 

SQUIB:  A kind of slow match or safety fuse.  3. A sarcastic speech or publication; a petty lampoon; a brief, witty essay. Who copied his squibs, and reëchoed his jokes. Goldsmith.  4. A writer of lampoons. [Obs.] The squibs are those who in the common phrase of the world are called libelers, lampooners, and pamphleteers. Tatler.  5. A paltry fellow. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SQUIB:  To throw squibs; to utter sarcatic or severe reflections; to contend in petty dispute; as, to squib a little debate. [Colloq.] 

SQUID:  Any one of numerous species of ten-armed cephalopods having a long, tapered body, and a caudal fin on each side; especially, any species of Loligo, Ommastrephes, and related genera. See Calamary, Decacerata, Dibranchiata.  Note: Some of these squids are very abundant on the Atlantic coast of North America, and are used in large quantities for bait, especially in the cod fishery. The most abundant of the American squids are the northern squid (Ommastrephes illecebrosus), ranging from Southern New England to Newfoundland, and the southern squid (Loligo Pealii), ranging from Virginia to Massachusetts.  2. A fishhook with a piece of bright lead, bone, or other substance, fastened on its shank to imitate a squid. Flying squid, Giant squid. (Zoöl.) See under Flying, and Giant.  -- Squid hound (Zoöl.), the striped bass. 

SQUIER:  A square. See 1st Squire. [Obs.] Not the worst of the three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the squier. Shak.  SQUIERIE; SQUIERY Squi"er*ie, Squi"er*y, (, n. Etym: [OF. escuiere. See Esquire.]  A company of squires; the whole body of squires.  Note: This word is found in Tyrwhitt's Chaucer, but is not in the modern editions. 

SQUIFFY:  Somewhat intoxicated; tipsy. [Slang]  Kipling. 

SQUIGGLE:  To shake and wash a fluid about in the mouth with the lips closed. [Prov. Eng.] Forby. 

SQUIGGLE:  To move about like an eel; to squirm. [Low, U.S.] Bartlett. 

SQUILGEE:  Formerly, a small swab for drying a vessel's deck; now, a kind of scraper having a blade or edge of rubber or of leather, -- used for removing superfluous, water or other liquids, as from a vessel's deck after washing, from window panes, photographer's plates, etc. [Written also squillgee, squillagee, squeegee.] 

SQUILLA:  Any one of numerous stomapod crustaceans of the genus Squilla and allied genera. They make burrows in mud or beneath stones on the seashore. Called also mantis shrimp. See Illust. under Stomapoda. 

SQUILLITIC:  Of or pertaining to squills. [R.] "Squillitic vinegar." Holland.  SQUINANCE; SQUINANCY Squin"ance, Squin"an*cy, n. Etym: [F. esquinancie, OF. squinance, esquinance. See Quinsy.]  1. (Med.)  The quinsy. See Quinsy. [Obs.]  2. (Bot.)  A European perennial herb (Asperula cynanchica) with narrowly linear whorled leaves; -- formerly thought to cure the quinsy. Also called quincewort. Squinancy berries, black currants; -- so called because used to cure the quinsy. Dr. Prior. 

SQUINCH:  A small arch thrown across the corner of a square room to support a superimposed mass, as where an octagonal spire or drum rests upon a square tower; -- called also sconce, and sconcheon. 

SQUINSY:  See Quinsy. [Obs.] 

SQUINT:  To have the axes of the eyes not coincident; -- to be cross- eyed.  3. To deviate from a true line; to run obliquely. 

SQUINT:  A want of coincidence of the axes of the eyes; strabismus.  3. (Arch.)  Same as Hagioscope. 

SQUINTER:  One who squints.  SQUINT-EYE Squint"-eye`, n.  An eye that squints. Spenser.  SQUINT-EYED Squint"-eyed`, a.  1. Having eyes that quint; having eyes with axes not coincident; cross-eyed.  2. Looking obliquely, or asquint; malignant; as, squint-eyed praise; squint-eyed jealousy. 

SQUINTIFEGO:  Squinting. [Obs. & R.] 

SQUINTING:  a. & n. from Squint, v.  -- Squint"ing*ly, adv. 

SQUINY:  To squint. [Obs.] Shak. 

SQUINZEY:  See Quinsy. [Obs.]  SQUIR; SQUIRR Squir, v. t.  To throw with a jerk; to throw edge foremost. [Obs.] [Written also squirr.] Addison. 

SQUIRALTY:  Same as Squirarchy. That such weight and influence be put thereby into the hands of the squiralty of my kingdom. Sterne. 

SQUIRARCH:  One who belongs to the squirarchy.  -- Squir"arch*al, a. 

SQUIRARCHY:  The gentlemen, or gentry, of a country, collectively. [Written also squirearchy.] 

SQUIRE:  A square; a measure; a rule. [Obs.] "With golden squire." Spenser. 

SQUIREEN:  One who is half squire and half farmer; -- used humorously. [Eng.] C. Kingsley. 

SQUIREHOOD:  The rank or state of a squire; squireship. Swift. 

SQUIRELING:  A petty squire. Tennyson. 

SQUIRELY:  Becoming a squire; like a squire. 

SQUIRESHIP:  Squirehood. 

SQUIRM:  To twist about briskly with contor 

SQUIRR:  See Squir. 

SQUIRREL:  Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the genus Sciurus and several allied genera of the famly Sciuridæ. Squirrels generally have a bushy tail, large erect ears, and strong hind legs. They are commonly arboreal in their habits, but many species live in burrows.  Note: Among the common North American squirrels are the gray squirrel (Scirius Carolinensis) and its black variety; the fox, or cat, sqirrel (S. cinereus, or S. niger) which is a large species, and variable in color, the southern variety being frequently black, while the northern and western varieties are usually gray or rusty brown; the red squirrel (see Chickaree); the striped, or chipping, squirrel (see Chipmunk); and the California gray squirrel (S. fossor). Several other species inhabit Mexico and Central America. The common European species (Sciurus vulgaris) has a long tuft of hair on each ear. the so-called Australian squirrels are marsupials. See Petaurist, and Phalanger.  2. One of the small rollers of a carding machine which work with the large cylinder. Barking squirrel (Zoöl.), the prairie dog.  -- Federation squirrel (Zoöl.), the striped gopher. See Gopher, 2.  -- Flying squirrel (Zoöl.). See Flying squirrel, in the Vocabulary.  -- Java squirrel (Zoöl.). See Jelerang.  -- Squirrel corn (Bot.), a North American herb (Dicantra Canadensis) bearing little yellow tubers.  -- Squirrel cup (Bot.), the blossom of the Hepatica triloba, a low perennial herb with cup-shaped flowers varying from purplish blue to pink or even white. It is one of the earliest flowers of spring.  -- Squirrel fish (Zoöl.) (a) A sea bass (Serranus fascicularis) of the Southern United States. (b) The sailor's choice (Diplodus rhomboides). (c) The redmouth, or grunt. (d) A market fish of Bermuda (Holocentrum Ascensione).  -- Squirrel grass (Bot.), a pestiferous grass (Hordeum murinum) related to barley. In California the stiffly awned spiklets work into the wool of sheep, and into the throat, flesh, and eyes of animals, sometimes even producing death.  -- Squirrel hake (Zoöl.), a common American hake (Phycis tenuis); -- called also white hake.  -- Squirrel hawk (Zoöl.), any rough-legged hawk; especially, the California species Archibuteo ferrugineus.  -- Squirrel monkey. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of small, soft-haired South American monkeys of the genus Calithrix. They are noted for their graceful form and agility. See Teetee. (b) A marmoset.  -- Squirrel petaurus (Zoöl.), a flying phalanger of Australia. See Phalanger, Petaurist, and Flying phalanger under Flying.  -- Squirrel shrew (Zoöl.), any one of several species of East Indian and Asiatic insectivores of the genus Tupaia. They are allied to the shrews, but have a bushy tail, like that of a squirrel.  -- Squirrel-tail grass (Bot.), a grass (Hordeum jubatum) found in salt marshes and along the Great Lakes, having a dense spike beset with long awns. 

SQUIRT:  To drive or eject in a stream out of a narrow pipe or orifice; as, to squirt water. The hard-featured miscreant coolly rolled his tobacco in his cheek, and squirted the juice into the fire grate. Sir W. Scott. Squirting cucumber. (Bot.) See Ecballium. 

SQUIRTER:  One who, or that which, squirts. 

SQUIRY:  The body of squires, collectively considered; squirarchy. [Obs.] The flower of chivalry and squiry. Ld. Berbers.  SQUITCH GRASS Squitch" grass`. (Bot.)  Quitch grass. 

SQUITEE:  The squeteague; -- called also squit. 

STAB:  A celebrated Latin hymn, beginning with these words, commemorating the sorrows of the mother of our Lord at the foot of the cross. It is read in the Mass of the Sorrows of the Virgin Mary, and is sung by Catholics when making "the way of the cross" (Via Crucis). See Station, 7 (c). 

STABBER:  A small marline spike; a pricker. 

STABBINGLY:  By stabbing; with intent to injure covertly. Bp. Parker.  STAB CULTURE Stab culture. (Bacteriol.)  A culture made by inoculating a solid medium, as gelatin, with the puncture of a needle or wire. The growths are usually of characteristic form. 

STABILIMENT:  The act of making firm; firm support; establishment. [R.] Jer. taylor. They serve for stabiliment, propagation, and shade. Derham. 

STABILITATE:  To make stable; to establish. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

STABLE:  To fix; to establish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STABLE:  A house, shed, or building, for beasts to lodge and feed in; esp., a building or apartment with stalls, for horses; as, a horse stable; a cow stable. Milton. Stable fly (Zoöl.), a common dipterous fly (Stomoxys calcitrans) which is abundant about stables and often enters dwellings, especially in autumn. These files, unlike the common house files, which they resemble, bite severely, and are troublesome to horses and cattle. 

STABLE:  To put or keep in a stable. 

STABLE:  To dwell or lodge in a stable; to dwell in an inclosed place; to kennel. Milton.  STABLEBOY; STABLEMAN Sta"ble*boy`, Sta"ble*man, n.  A boy or man who attends in a stable; a groom; a hostler. 

STABLENESS:  The quality or state of being stable, or firmly established; stability. 

STABLER:  A stable keeper. De Foe.  STABLE STAND Sta"ble stand`. (O.Eng. Law)  The position of a man who is found at his standing in the forest, with a crossbow or a longbow bent, ready to shoot at a deer, or close by a tree with greyhounds in a leash ready to slip; -- one of the four presumptions that a man intends stealing the king's deer. Wharton. 

STABLISH:  To settle permanently in a state; to make firm; to establish; to fix. [Obs.] 2 Sam. vii. 13. 

STABLISHMENT:  Establishment. [Obs.] 

STABLY:  In a stable manner; firmly; fixedly; steadily; as, a government stably settled. 

STACCATO:  Disconnected; separated; distinct; -- a direction to perform the notes of a passage in a short, distinct, and pointed manner. It is opposed to legato, and often indicated by heavy accents written over or under the notes, or by dots when the performance is to be less distinct and emphatic.  2. Expressed in a brief, pointed manner. Staccato and peremptory [literary criticism]. G. Eliot. 

STACK:  To lay in a conical or other pile; to make into a large pile; as, to stack hay, cornstalks, or grain; to stack or place wood. To stack arms (Mil.), to set up a number of muskets or rifles together, with the bayonets crossing one another, and forming a sort of conical pile. 

STACKET:  A stockade. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.  STACK-GUARD Stack"-guard`, n.  A covering or protection, as a canvas, for a stack. 

STACKING:  from Stack. Stacking band, Stacking belt, a band or rope used in binding thatch or straw upon a stack.  -- Stacking stage, a stage used in building stacks. 

STACKSTAND:  A staging for supporting a stack of hay or grain; a rickstand. 

STACKYARD:  A yard or inclosure for stacks of hay or grain. A. Smith. 

STACTE:  One of the sweet spices used by the ancient Jews in the preparation of incense. It was perhaps an oil or other form of myrrh or cinnamon, or a kind of storax. Ex. xxx. 34. 

STADE:  A stadium. Donne. 

STADE:  A landing place or wharf. Knight.  STADIA HAIRS; STADIA WIRES Sta"di*a hairs or wires . (Surv.)  In a theodolite, etc., horizontal cross wires or hairs equidistant from the central horizontal cross wire. 

STADIMETER:  A horizontal graduated bar mounted on a staff, used as a stadium, or telemeter, for measuring distances. 

STADTHOLDER:  Formerly, the chief magistrate of the United Provinces of Holland; also, the governor or lieutenant governor of a province.  STADTHOLDERATE; STADTHOLDERSHIP Stadt"hold`er*ate, Stadt"hold`er*ship, n.  The office or position of a stadtholder. 

STAFETTE:  An estafet. [R.] arlyle. 

STAFF:  The five lines and the spaces on which music is written; -- formerly called stave.  8. (Mech.)  An arbor, as of a wheel or a pinion of a watch.  9. (Surg.)  The grooved director for the gorget, or knife, used in cutting for stone in the bladder.  10. Etym: [From Staff, 3, a badge of office.] (Mil.)  An establishment of officers in various departments attached to an army, to a section of an army, or to the commander of an army. The general's staff consists of those officers about his person who are employed in carrying his commands into execution. See État Major.  11. Hence: A body of assistants serving to carry into effect the plans of a superintendant or manager; as, the staff of a newspaper. Jacob's staff (Surv.), a single straight rod or staff, pointed and iron-shod at the bottom, for penetrating the ground, and having a socket joint at the top, used, instead of a tripod, for supporting a compass.  -- Staff angle (Arch.), a square rod of wood standing flush with the wall on each of its sides, at the external angles of plastering, to prevent their being damaged.  -- The staff of life, bread. "Bread is the staff of life." Swift.  -- Staff tree (Bot.), any plant of the genus Celastrus, mostly climbing shrubs of the northern hemisphere. The American species (C. scandens) is commonly called bittersweet. See 2d Bittersweet, 3 (b).  -- To set, or To put, up, or down, one's staff, to take up one's residence; to lodge. [Obs.] 

STAFFIER:  An attendant bearing a staff. [Obs.] "Staffiers on foot." Hudibras. 

STAFFISH:  Stiff; harsh. [Obs.] Ascham. 

STAFFMAN:  A workman employed in silk throwing. 

STAG:  The European wren. [Prov. Eng.] Stag beetle (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of lamellicorn beetles belonging to Lucanus and allied genera, especially L. cervus of Europe and L. dama of the United States. The mandibles are large and branched, or forked, whence the name. The lava feeds on the rotten wood of dead trees. Called also horned bug, and horse beetle.  -- Stag dance, a dance by men only. [slang, U.S.] -- Stag hog (Zoöl.), the babiroussa.  -- Stag-horn coral (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large branching corals of the genus Madrepora, which somewhat resemble the antlers of the stag, especially Madrepora cervicornis, and M. palmata, of Florida and the West Indies.  -- Stag-horn fern (Bot.), an Australian and West African fern (Platycerium alcicorne) having the large fronds branched like a stag's horns; also, any species of the same genus.  -- Stag-horn sumac (Bot.), a common American shrub (Rhus typhina) having densely velvety branchlets. See Sumac.  -- Stag party, a party consisting of men only. [Slang, U. S.] -- Stag tick (Zoöl.), a parasitic dipterous insect of the family Hippoboscidæ, which lives upon the stag and in usually wingless. The same species lives also upon the European grouse, but in that case has wings. 

STAG:  To act as a "stag", or irregular dealer in stocks. [Cant] 

STAG:  To watch; to dog, or keep track of. [Prov. Eng. or Slang] H. Kingsley. 

STAGE:  One of several marked phases or periods in the development and growth of many animals and plants; as, the larval stage; pupa stage; zoea stage. Stage box, a box close to the stage in a theater.  -- Stage carriage, a stagecoach.  -- Stage door, the actor's and workmen's entrance to a theater.  -- Stage lights, the lights by which the stage in a theater is illuminated.  -- Stage micrometer, a graduated device applied to the stage of a microscope for measuring the size of an object.  -- Stage wagon, a wagon which runs between two places for conveying passengers or goods.  -- Stage whisper, a loud whisper, as by an actor in a theater, supposed, for dramatic effect, to be unheard by one or more of his fellow actors, yet audible to the audience; an aside. stage of the game, [Colloq.] stage n. 10. 

STAGE:  To exhibit upon a stage, or as upon a stage; to display publicly. Shak. 

STAGECOACH:  A coach that runs regularly from one stage, station, or place to another, for the conveyance of passengers. 

STAGECOACHMAN:  One who drives a stagecoach.  STAGE DIRECTOR Stage director. (Theat.)  One who prepares a play for production. He arranges the details of the stage settings, the business to be used, all stage effects, and instructs the actors, excepting usually the star, in the general interpretation of their parts.  STAGE FRIGHT Stage fright.  Nervousness felt before an audience. 

STAGEHOUSE:  A house where a stage regularly stops for passengers or a relay of horses. 

STAGELY:  Pertaining to a stage; becoming the theater; theatrical. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  STAGE MANAGER Stage manager. (Theat.)  One in control of the stage during the production of a play. He directs the stage hands, property man, etc., has charge of all details behind the curtain, except the acting, and has a general oversight of the actors. Sometimes he is also the stage director. 

STAGEPLAY:  A dramatic or theatrical entertainment. Dryden. 

STAGEPLAYER:  An actor on the stage; one whose occupation is to represent characters on the stage; as, Garrick was a celebrated stageplayer. 

STAGERY:  Exhibition on the stage. [Obs.]  STAGE-STRUCK Stage"-struck`, a.  Fascinated by the stage; seized by a passionate desire to become an actor.  STAG-EVIL Stag"-e`vil, n. (Far.)  A kind of palsy affecting the jaw of a horse. Crabb. 

STAGGARD:  The male red deer when four years old. 

STAGGER:  A disease of horses and other animals, attended by reeling, unsteady gait or sudden falling; as, parasitic staggers; appopletic or sleepy staggers.  3. pl.  Bewilderment; perplexity. [R.] Shak. Stomach staggers (Far.), distention of the stomach with food or gas, resulting in indigestion, frequently in death. 

STAGGERBUSH:  An American shrub (Andromeda Mariana) having clusters of nodding white flowers. It grows in low, sandy places, and is said to poison lambs and calves. Gray. 

STAGGERINGLY:  In a staggering manner. 

STAGGERWORT:  A kind of ragwort (Senecio Jacobæa).  STAG-HORN CORAL; STAG-HORN FERN Stag"-horn` co"ral, Stag"-horn` fern`, etc.  See under Stag.  STAG-HORNED Stag"-horned`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the mandibles large and palmate, or branched somewhat like the antlers of a stag; -- said of certain beetles. 

STAGHOUND:  A large and powerful hound formerly used in hunting the stag, the wolf, and other large animals. The breed is nearly extinct. 

STAGING:  A structure of posts and boards for supporting workmen, etc., as in building.  2. The business of running stagecoaches; also, the act of journeying in stagecoaches. 

STAGIRITE:  A native of, or resident in, Stagira, in ancient Macedonia; especially, Aristotle. [Written also Stagyrite.] 

STAGNANCY:  State of being stagnant. 

STAGNANTLY:  In a stagnant manner. 

STAGNATE:  Stagnant. [Obs.] "A stagnate mass of vapors." Young. 

STAGWORM:  The larve of any species of botfly which is parasitic upon the stag, as , which burrows beneath the skin, and Cephalomyia auribarbis, which lives in the nostrils. 

STAGY:  Having an air or manner characteristic of the stage; theatrical; artificial; as, a stagy tone or bearing; --chiefly used depreciatively. 

STAHLIAN:  Pertaining to, or taught by, Stahl, a German physician and chemist of the 17th century; as, the Stahlian theory of phlogiston. 

STAHLIAN:  A believer in, or advocate of, Stahlism.  STAHLISM; STAHLIANISM Stahl"ism, Stahl"ian*ism, n.  The Stahlian theoru, that every vital action is function or operation of the soul. 

STAID:  imp. & p. p. of Stay. 

STAID:  Sober; grave; steady; sedate; composed; regular; not wild, volatile, or fanciful. "Sober and staid persons." Addison. O'erlaid with black, staid Wisdom's hue. Milton.  Syn.  -- Sober; grave; steady; steadfast; composed; regular; sedate. 

STAIDLY:  In a staid manner, sedately. 

STAIDNESS:  The quality or state of being staid; seriousness; steadiness; sedateness; regularity; -- the opposite of wildness, or Ant: levity. If sometimes he appears too gray, yet a secret gracefulness of youth accompanies his writings, though the staidness and sobriety of age wanting. Dryden.  Syn.  -- Sobriety; gravity; steadiness; regularity; constancy; firmness; stability; sedateness. 

STAIL:  A handle, as of a mop; a stale. [Eng.] 

STAIN:  To give or receive a stain; to grow dim. 

STAINLESS:  Free from stain; immaculate. Shak. The veery care he took to keep his name Stainless, with some was evidence of shame. Crabbe.  Syn.  -- Blameless; spotless; faultless. See Blameless. 

STAINLESSLY:  In a stainless manner. 

STAIRCASE:  A flight of stairs with their supporting framework, casing, balusters, etc. To make a complete staircase is a curious piece of architecture. Sir H. Wotton. Staircase shell. (Zoöl.) (a) Any scalaria, or wentletrap. (b) Any species of Solarium, or perspective shell. 

STAIRHEAD:  The head or top of a staircase. 

STAIRWAY:  A flight of stairs or steps; a staircase. "A rude and narrow stairway." Moore. 

STAITH:  A landing place; an elevated staging upon a wharf for discharging coal, etc., as from railway cars, into vessels. 

STAITHMAN:  A man employed in weighing and shipping at a staith. [Eng.] 

STAKE:  The common American bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus); -- so called because one of its notes resembles the sound made in driving a stake into the mud. Called also meadow hen, and Indian hen. 

STAKEHEAD:  A horizontal bar on a stake, used for supporting the yarns which are kept apart by pins in the bar. 

STAKEHOLDER:  The holder of a stake; one with whom the bets are deposited when a wager is laid. 

STAKTOMETER:  A drop measurer; a glass tube tapering to a small orifice at the point, and having a bulb in the middle, used for finding the number of drops in equal quantities of different liquids. See Pipette. Sir D. Brewster. 

STAL:  Stole.  STALACTIC; STALACTICAL Sta*lac"tic, Sta*lac"tic*al, a. (Geol.)  Stalactic. 

STALACTIFORM:  Like a stalactite; resembling a stalactite. 

STALACTITES:  A stalactite. [Obs.] Woodward.  STALACTITIC; STALACTITICAL Stal`ac*tit"ic, Stal`ac*tit"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stalactitique.] (Geol.)  Of or pertaining to a stalactite; having the form or characters of a stalactite; stalactic. 

STALACTITIFORM:  Having the form of a stalactite; stalactiform. 

STALAGMITE:  A deposit more or less resembling an inverted stalactite, formed by calcareous water dropping on the floors of caverns; hence, a similar deposit of other material.  STALAGMITIC; STALAGMITICAL Stal`ag*mit"ic, Stal`ag*mit"ic*al, a.  Having the form or structure of stalagmites.  -- Stal`ag*mit"ic*al*ly, adv. 

STALDER:  A wooden frame to set casks on. [Prov. Eng.] 

STALE:  The stock or handle of anything; as, the stale of a rake. [Written also steal, stele, etc.] But seeling the arrow's stale without, and that the head did go No further than it might be seen. Chapman. 

STALE:  To make vapid or tasteless; to destroy the life, beauty, or use of; to wear out. Age can not wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety. Shak. 

STALE:  To make water; to discharge urine; -- said especially of horses and cattle. Hudibras. 

STALE:  A stalemate. [Obs.] Bacon.  4. A laughingstock; a dupe. [Obs.] Shak. 

STALEMATE:  The position of the king when he can not move without being placed on check and there is no other piece which can be moved. 

STALEMATE:  To subject to a stalemate; hence, to bring to a stand. 

STALENESS:  The quality or state of being stale. 

STALK:  An ornament in the Corinthian capital resembling the stalk of a plant, from which the volutes and helices spring.  4. One of the two upright pieces of a ladder. [Obs.] To climd by the rungs and the stalks. Chaucer.  5. (Zoöl.) (a) A stem or peduncle, as of certain barnacles and crinoids. (b) The narrow basal portion of the abdomen of a hymenopterous insect. (c) The peduncle of the eyes of decapod crustaceans.  6. (Founding)  An iron bar with projections inserted in a core to strengthen it; a core arbor. Stalk borer (Zoöl.), the larva of a noctuid moth (Gortyna nitela), which bores in the stalks of the raspberry, strawberry, tomato, asters, and many other garden plants, often doing much injury. 

STALK:  To approach under cover of a screen, or by stealth, for the purpose of killing, as game. As for shooting a man from behind a wall, it is cruelly like to stalking a deer. Sir W. Scott. 

STALK:  A high, proud, stately step or walk. Thus twice before, . . . With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch. Shak. The which with monstrous stalk behind him stepped. Spenser. 

STALKED:  Having a stalk or stem; borne upon a stem. Stalked barnacle (Zoöl.), a goose barnacle, or anatifer; -- called also stalk barnacle.  -- Stalked crinoid (Zoöl.), any crinoid having a jointed stem. 

STALKER:  Having the eyes raised on a stalk, or peduncle; -- opposed to sessile-eyed. Said especially of podophthalmous crustaceans. Stalked- eyed crustaceans. (Zoöl.) See Podophthalmia.  STALKING-HORSE Stalk"ing-horse, n.  1. A horse, or a figure resembling a horse, behind which a hunter conceals himself from the game he is aiming to kill.  2. Fig.: Something used to cover up a secret project; a mask; a pretense. Hypocrisy is the devil's stalking-horse under an affectation of simplicity and religion. L'Estrange. How much more abominable is it to make of him [Christ] and religion a stalking-horse, to get and enjoy the world! Bunyan. 

STALKLESS:  Having no stalk. 

STALKY:  Hard as a stalk; resembling a stalk. At the top [it] bears a great stalky head. Mortimer. 

STALL:  The space left by excavation between pillars. See Post and stall, under Post. Stall reader, one who reads books at a stall where they are exposed for sale. Cries the stall reader, "Bless us! what a word on A titlepage is this!" Milton. 

STALLAGE:  The right of erecting a stalls in fairs; rent paid for a stall.  2. Dung of cattle or horses, mixed with straw. [Obs.] 

STALLATION:  Installation. [Obs.] 

STALLED:  Put or kept in a stall; hence, fatted. "A stalled ox." Prov. xv. 17. 

STALLER:  A standard bearer. obtaining Fuller.  STALL-FEED Stall"-feed, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stall-fed (; p. pr. & vb. n. Stall- feeding.]  To feed and fatten in a stall or on dry fodder; as, to stall- feed an ox. 

STALLING:  Stabling. Tennyson. 

STALLION:  A male horse not castrated; a male horse kept for breeding. 

STALLMAN:  One who keeps a stall for the sale of merchandise, especially books. Sterne. 

STALLON:  A slip from a plant; a scion; a cutting. [R.] Holished.  STALWART; STALWORTH Stal"wart, Stal"worth, a. Etym: [OE. stalworth, AS. stælwyrth serviceable, probably originally, good at stealing, or worth stealing or taking, and afterwards extended to other causes of estimation. See Steal, v. t., Worth, a.]  Brave; bold; strong; redoubted; daring; vehement; violent. "A stalwart tiller of the soil." Prof. Wilson. Fair man be was and wise, stalworth and bold. R. of Brunne.  Note: Stalworth is now disused, or bur little used, stalwart having taken its place. 

STALWARTLY:  In a stalwart manner. 

STALWARTNESS:  The quality of being stalwart.  STALWORTHHOOD; STALWORTHNESS Stal"worth*hood, Stal"worth*ness (, n.  The quality or state of being stalworth; stalwartness; boldness; daring. [Obs.] 

STAMEN:  The male organ of flowers for secreting and furnishing the pollen or fecundating dust. It consists of the anther and filament. 

STAMENED:  Furnished with stamens. 

STAMIN:  A kind of woolen cloth. [Written also stamine.] [Obs.] 

STAMINA:  See Stamen. 

STAMINAL:  Of or pertaining to stamens or stamina; consisting in stamens. 

STAMINATE:  To indue with stamina. [R.]  STAMINEAL; STAMINEOUS Sta*min"e*al, Sta*min"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. stamineus, from stamen thread.]  1. Consisting of stamens or threads.  2. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the stamens; possessing stamens; also, attached to the stamens; as, a stamineous nectary. 

STAMINIFEROUS:  Bearing or having stamens. 

STAMINODE:  A staminodium. 

STAMINODIUM:  An abortive stamen, or any organ modified from an abortive stamen. 

STAMMEL:  A large, clumsy horse. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

STAMMEL:  Of the color of stammel; having a red color, thought inferior to scarlet. 

STAMMER:  To make involuntary stops in uttering syllables or words; to hesitate or falter in speaking; to speak with stops and diffivulty; to stutter. I would thou couldst stammer, that thou mightest pour this conclead man out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-mouthed bottle, either too much at once, or none at all. Shak. 

STAMMER:  To utter or pronounce with hesitation or imperfectly; -- sometimes with out. 

STAMMER:  Defective utterance, or involuntary interruption of utterance; a stutter. 

STAMMERER:  One who stammers. 

STAMMERING:  Apt to stammer; hesitating in speech; stuttering.  -- Stam"mer*ing*ly, adv. 

STAMMERING:  A disturbance in the formation of sounds. It is due essentially to long-continued spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm, by which expiration is preented, and hence it may be considered as a spasmodic inspiration. 

STAMP:  A picture cut in wood or metal, or made by impression; a cut; a plate. [Obs.] At Venice they put out very curious stamps of the several edifices which are most famous for their beauty and magnificence. Addison.  6. An offical mark set upon things chargeable with a duty or tax to government, as evidence that the duty or tax is paid; as, the stamp on a bill of exchange.  7. Hence, a stamped or printed device, issued by the government at a fixed price, and required by law to be affixed to, or stamped on, certain papers, as evidence that the government dues are paid; as, a postage stamp; a receipt stamp, etc.  8. An instrument for cutting out, or shaping, materials, as paper, leather, etc., by a downward pressure.  9. A character or reputation, good or bad, fixed on anything as if by an imprinted mark; current value; authority; as, these persons have the stamp of dishonesty; the Scriptures bear the stamp of a divine origin. Of the same stamp is that which is obtruded on us, that an adamant suspends the attraction of the loadstone. Sir T. Browne.  10. Make; cast; form; character; as, a man of the same stamp, or of a different stamp. A soldier of this season's stamp. Shak.  11. A kind of heavy hammer, or pestle, raised by water or steam power, for beating ores to powder; anything like a pestle, used for pounding or bathing.  12. A half-penny. [Obs.] au. & Fl.  13. pl.  Money, esp. paper money. [Slang, U.S.] Stamp act, an act of the British Parliament [1765] imposing a duty on all paper, vellum, and parchment used in the American colonies, and declaring all writings on unstamped materials to be null an void.  -- Stamp collector, an officer who receives or collects stamp duties; one who collects postage or other stamps.  -- Stamp duty, a duty, or tax, imposed on paper and parchment used for certain writings, as deeds, conveyances, etc., the evidence of the payment of the duty or tax being a stamp. [Eng.] -- Stamp hammer, a hammer, worked by power, which rises and falls vertically, like a stamp in a stamp mill.  -- Stamp head, a heavy mass of metal, forming the head or lower end of a bar, which is lifted and let fall, in a stamp mill.  -- Stamp mill (Mining), a mill in which ore is crushed with stamps; also, a machine for stamping ore.  -- Stamp note, a stamped certificate from a customhouse officer, which allows goods to be received by the captain of a ship as freight. [Eng.] -- Stamp office, an office for the issue of stamps and the reception of stamp duties. 

STAMPEDE:  A wild, headlong scamper, or running away, of a number of animals; usually caused by fright; hence, any sudden flight or dispersion, as of a crowd or an army in consequence of a panic. She and her husband would join in the general stampede. W. Black. 

STAMPEDE:  To run away in a panic; -- said droves of cattle, horses, etc., also of armies. 

STAMPEDE:  To disperse by causing sudden fright, as a herd or drove of animals. 

STAMPING:  from Stamp, v. Stamping ground, a place frequented, and much trodden, by animals, wild or domesticated; hence (Colloq.), the scene of one's labors or exploits; also, one's favorite resort. [U.S.] -- Stamping machine, a machine for forming metallic articles or impressions by stamping.  -- Stamping mill (Mining), a stamp mill. 

STANCH:  To cease, as the flowing of blood. Immediately her issue of blood stanched. Luke viii. 44. 

STANCH:  To prop; to make stanch, or strong. His gathered sticks to stanch the wall Of the snow tower when snow should fall. Emerson. 

STANCHEL:  A stanchion. 

STANCHER:  One who, or that which, stanches, or stops, the flowing, as of blood. 

STANCHION:  A prop or support; a piece of timber in the form of a stake or post, used for a support or stay.  2. (Naut.)  Any upright post or beam used as a support, as for the deck, the quarter rails, awnings, etc.  3. A vertical bar for confining cattle in a stall. 

STANCHLY:  In a stanch manner. 

STANCHNESS:  The quality or state of being stanch. 

STAND:  To hold a course at sea; as, to stand from the shore; to stand for the harbor. From the same parts of heaven his navy stands. Dryden.  12. To offer one's self, or to be offered, as a candidate. He stood to be elected one of the proctors of the university. Walton.  13. To stagnate; not to flow; to be motionless. Or the black water of Pomptina stands. Dryden.  14. To measure when erect on the feet. Six feet two, as I think, he stands. Tennyson.  15. (Law) (a) To be or remain as it is; to continue in force; to have efficacy or validity; to abide. Bouvier. (b) To appear in court. Burrill. Stand by (Naut.), a preparatory order, equivalent to Be ready.  -- To stand against, to opposite; to resist.  -- To stand by. (a) To be near; to be a spectator; to be present. (b) To be aside; to be aside with disregard. "In the interim [we] let the commands stand by neglected." Dr. H. More. (c) To maintain; to defend; to support; not to desert; as, to stand by one's principles or party. (d) To rest on for support; to be supported by. Whitgift.  -- To stand corrected, to be set right, as after an error in a statement of fact. Wycherley.  -- To stand fast, to be fixed; to be unshaken or immovable.  -- To stand firmly on, to be satisfied or convinced of. "Though Page be a secure fool, and stands so firmly on his wife's frailty." Shak.  -- To stand for. (a) To side with; to espouse the cause of; to support; to maintain, or to profess or attempt to maintain; to defend. "I stand wholly for you." Shak. (b) To be in the place of; to be the substitute or to represent; as, a cipher at the left hand of a figure stands for nothing. "I will not trouble myself, whether these names stand for the same thing, or really include one another." Locke.  -- To stand in, to cost. "The same standeth them in much less cost." Robynson (More's Utopia). The Punic wars could not have stood the human race in less than three millions of the species. Burke. -- To stand in hand, to conduce to one's interest; to be serviceable or advantageous.  -- To stand off. (a) To keep at a distance. (b) Not to comply. (c) To keep at a distance in friendship, social intercourse, or acquaintance. (d) To appear prominent; to have relief. "Picture is best when it standeth off, as if it were carved." Sir H. Wotton.  -- To stand off and on (Naut.), to remain near a coast by sailing toward land and then from it.  -- To stand on (Naut.), to continue on the same tack or course.  -- To stand out. (a) To project; to be prominent. "Their eyes stand out with fatness." Psalm lxxiii. 7. (b) To persist in opposition or resistance; not to yield or comply; not to give way or recede. His spirit is come in, That so stood out against the holy church. Shak. -- To stand to. (a) To ply; to urge; to persevere in using. "Stand to your tackles, mates, and stretch your oars." Dryden. (b) To remain fixed in a purpose or opinion. "I will stand to it, that this is his sense." Bp. Stillingfleet. (c) To abide by; to adhere to; as to a contrast, assertion, promise, etc.; as, to stand to an award; to stand to one's word. (d) Not to yield; not to fly; to maintain, as one's ground. "Their lives and fortunes were put in safety, whether they stood to it or ran away." Bacon. (e) To be consistent with; to agree with; as, it stands to reason that he could not have done so. (f) To support; to uphold. "Stand to me in this cause." Shak.  -- To stand together, to be consistent; to agree.  -- To stand to sea (Naut.), to direct the course from land.  -- To stand under, to undergo; to withstand. Shak.  -- To stand up. (a) To rise from sitting; to be on the feet. (b) To arise in order to speak or act. "Against whom, when the accusers stood up, they brought none accusation of such things as I supposed." Acts xxv. 18. (c) To rise and stand on end, as the hair. (d) To put one's self in opposition; to contend. "Once we stood up about the corn." Shak.  -- To stand up for, to defend; to justify; to support, or attempt to support; as, to stand up for the administration.  -- To stand upon. (a) To concern; to interest. (b) To value; to esteem. "We highly esteem and stand much upon our birth." Ray. (c) To insist on; to attach much importance to; as, to stand upon security; to stand upon ceremony. (d) To attack; to assault. [A Hebraism] "So I stood upon him, and slew him." 2 Sam. i. 10.  -- To stand with, to be consistent with. "It stands with reason that they should be rewarded liberally." Sir J. Davies. 

STAND:  A weight of from two hundred and fifty to three hundred pounds, -- used in weighing pitch. Microscope stand, the instrument, excepting the eyepiece, objective, and other removable optical parts.  -- Stand of ammunition, the projectile, cartridge, and sabot connected together.  -- Stand of arms. (Mil.) See under Arms.  -- Stand of colors (Mil.), a single color, or flag. Wilhelm (Mil. Dict.) -- To be at a stand, to be stationary or motionless; to be at a standstill; hence, to be perplexed; to be embarrassed.  -- To make a stand, to halt for the purpose of offering resistance to a pursuing enemy.  Syn.  -- Stop; halt; rest; interruption; obstruction; perplexity; difficulty; embarrassment; hesitation. 

STANDAGE:  A reservior in which water accumulates at the bottom of a mine. 

STANDARD:  The proportion of weights of fine metal and alloy established by authority. By the present standard of the coinage, sixty-two shillings is coined out of one pound weight of silver. Arbuthnot.  5. (Hort.)  A tree of natural size supported by its own stem, and not dwarfed by grafting on the stock of a smaller species nor trained upon a wall or trellis. In France part of their gardens is laid out for flowers, others for fruits; some standards, some against walls. Sir W. Temple.  6. (Bot.)  The upper petal or banner of a papilionaceous corolla.  7. (Mech. & Carp.)  An upright support, as one of the poles of a scaffold; any upright in framing.  8. (Shipbuilding)  An inverted knee timber placed upon the deck instead of beneath it, with its vertical branch turned upward from that which lies horizontally.  9. The sheth of a plow.  10. A large drinking cup. Greene. Standard bearer, an officer of an army, company, or troop, who bears a standard; -- commonly called color sergeantor color bearer; hence, the leader of any organization; as, the standard bearer of a political party. 

STANDARD:  Bred in conformity to a standard. Specif., applied to a registered trotting horse which comes up to the standard adopted by the National Association of Trotting-horse Breeders. [U. S.] 

STANDARDIZE:  To reduce to a normal standard; to calculate or adjust the strength of, by means of, and for uses in, analysis.  STANDARD-WING Stand"ard-wing`, n. (Zoöl.)  A curious paradise bird (Semioptera Wallacii) which has two long special feathers standing erect on each wing.  STAND-BY Stand"-by`, n.  One who, or that which, stands by one in need; something upon which one relies for constant use or in an emergency. 

STANDEL:  A young tree, especially one reserved when others are cut. [Obs.] Fuller. 

STANDER:  See Legislature, above.  STANDER-BY Stand"er-by`, n.  One who stands near; one who is present; a bystander. 

STANDERGRASS:  A plant (Orchis mascula); -- called also standerwort, and long purple. See Long purple, under Long. 

STANDGALE:  See Stannel. [Prov. Eng.] 

STANDISH:  A stand, or case, for pen and ink. I bequeath to Dean Swift, Esq., my large silver standish. Swift. 

STANDPIPE:  A vertical pipe, open at the top, between a hydrant and a reservoir, to equalize the flow of water; also, a large vertical pipe, near a pumping engine, into which water is forced up, so as to give it sufficient head to rise to the required level at a distance.  2. (Steam Boiler)  A supply pipe of sufficient elevation to enable the water to flow into the boiler, notwithstanding the pressure of the steam. Knight. 

STANDPOINT:  A fixed point or station; a basis or fundamental principle; a position from which objects or principles are viewed, and according to which they are compared and judged. 

STANDSTILL:  A standing without moving forward or backward; a stop; a state or rest. 

STANE:  A stone. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 

STANG:  imp. of Sting. [Archaic] 

STANG:  To shoot with pain. [Prov. Eng.] 

STANHOPE:  A light two-wheeled, or sometimes four-wheeled, carriage, without a top; -- so called from Lord Stanhope, for whom it was contrived. 

STANIEL:  See Stannel. 

STANIELRY:  Hawking with staniels, -- a base kind of falconry. [Obs.] 

STANK:  Weak; worn out. [Obs.] Spenser. 

STANK:  To sigh. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

STANK:  Stunk. 

STANNARY:  Of or pertaining to tin mines, or tin works. The stannary courts of Devonshire and Cornwall, for the administration of justice among the tinners therein, are also courts of record. Blackstone. 

STANNARY:  A tin mine; tin works. Bp. Hall. 

STANNATE:  A salt of stannic acid. 

STANNEL:  The kestrel; -- called also standgale, standgall, stanchel, stand hawk, stannel hawk, steingale, stonegall. [Written also staniel, stannyel, and stanyel.] With what wing the staniel checks at it. Shak. 

STANNIC:  Of or pertaining to tin; derived from or containing tin; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with stannous compounds. Stannic acid. (a) A hypothetical substance, Sn(OH)4, analogous to silic acid, and called also normal stannic acid. (b) Metastannic acid.  -- Stannic chloride, a thin, colorless, fuming liquid, SnCl4, used as a mordant in calico printing and dyeing; -- formerly called spirit of tin, or fuming liquor of Libavius.  -- Stannic oxide, tin oxide, SnO2, produced artificially as a white amorphous powder, and occurring naturally in the mineral cassiterite. It is used in the manufacture of white enamels, and, under the name of putty powder, for polishing glass, etc. 

STANNIFEROUS:  Containing or affording tin.  STANNINE; STANNITE Stan"nine, Stan"nite, n. (Min.)  A mineral of a steel  STANNO- Stan"no-. Etym: [L. stannum tin.] (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting relation to, or connection with, tin, or including tin as an ingredient. 

STANNOFLUORIDE:  Any one of a series of double fluorides of tin (stannum) and some other element.  STANNOSO- Stan*no"so-, a. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting relation to, or connection with, certain stannnous compounds. 

STANNOTYPE:  A photograph taken upon a tin plate; a tintype. 

STANNOUS:  Pertaining to, or containing, tin; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with stannic compounds. Stannous chloride (Chem.), a white crystalline substance, SnCl2.(H2O)2, obtained by dissolving tin in hydrochloric acid. It is used as a mordant in dyeing. 

STANNUM:  The technical name of tin. See Tin.  STANNYEL; STANYEL Stann"yel, Stan"yel, n. (Zoöl.)  See Stannel.  STANT; STONT Stant, Stont, obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Stand, for standeth.  Stands. Chaucer. 

STANZA:  An apartment or division in a building; a room or chamber. 

STANZAIC:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, stanzas; as, a couplet in stanzaic form. 

STAPEDIAL:  Of or pertaining to stapes. 

STAPELIA:  An extensive and curious genus of African plants of the natural order Asclepiadaceæ (Milkweed family). They are succulent plants without leaves, frequently covered with dark tubercles giving them a very grotesque appearance. The odor of the blossoms is like that of carrion. 

STAPES:  The innermost of the ossicles of the ear; the stirrup, or stirrup bone; -- so called from its form. See Illust. of Ear. 

STAPHYLINE:  Of or pertaining to the uvula or the palate. 

STAPHYLINID:  Any rove beetle. 

STAPHYLOMA:  A protrusion of any part of the globe of the eye; as, a staphyloma of the cornea. 

STAPHYLOMATOUS:  Of or pertaining to staphyloma; affected with staphyloma. 

STAPHYLOPLASTY:  The operation for restoring or replacing the soft palate when it has been lost. Dunglison.  -- Staph`y*lo*plas"tic, a.  STAPHYLORAPHY; STAPHYLORRHAPHY Staph`y*lor"a*phy, Staph`y*lor"rha*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. staphylorraphie.]  The operation of uniting a cleft palate, consisting in paring and bringing together the edges of the cleft.  -- Staph`y*lo*raph"ic, Staph`y*lor*rhaph"ic, a. 

STAPHYLOTOMY:  The operation of removing a staphyloma by cutting. 

STAPLE:  To sort according to its staple; as, to staple cotton. 

STAR:  A planet supposed to influence one's destiny; (usually pl.) a configuration of the planets, supposed to influence fortune. O malignant and ill-brooding stars. Shak. Blesses his stars, and thinks it luxury. Addison.  4. That which resembles the figure of a star, as an ornament worn on the breast to indicate rank or honor. On whom . . . Lavish Honor showered all her stars. Tennyson.  5. Specifically, a radiated mark in writing or printing; an asterisk [thus, *]; -- used as a reference to a note, or to fill a blank where something is omitted, etc.  6. (Pyrotechny)  A composition of combustible matter used in the heading of rockets, in mines, etc., which, exploding of a air, presents a starlike appearance.  7. A person of brilliant and attractive qualities, especially on public occasions, as a distinguished orator, a leading theatrical performer, etc.  Note: Star is used in the formation of compound words generally or obvious signification: as, star-aspiring, star-bespangled, star- bestudded, star-blasting, star-bright, star-crowned, star-directed, star-eyed, star-headed, star-paved, star-roofed; star-sprinkled, star-wreathed.  Blazing star, Double star, Multiple star, Shooting star, etc. See under Blazing, Double, etc.  -- Nebulous star (Astron.), a small well-defined circular nebula, having a bright nucleus at its center like a star.  -- Star anise (Bot.), any plant of the genus Illicium; -- so called from its star-shaped capsules.  -- Star apple (Bot.), a tropical American tree (Chrysophyllum Cainito), having a milky juice and oblong leaves with a silky-golden pubescence beneath. It bears an applelike fruit, the carpels of which present a starlike figure when cut across. The name is extended to the whole genus of about sixty species, and the natural order (Sapotaceæ) to which it belongs is called the Star-apple family.  -- Star conner, one who cons, or studies, the stars; an astronomer or an astrologer. Gascoigne.  -- Star coral (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of stony corals belonging to Astræa, Orbicella, and allied genera, in which the calicles are round or polygonal and contain conspicuous radiating septa.  -- Star cucumber. (Bot.) See under Cucumber.  -- Star flower. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Ornithogalum; star- of-Bethlehem. (b) See Starwort (b). (c) An American plant of the genus Trientalis (Trientalis Americana). Gray.  -- Star fort (Fort.), a fort surrounded on the exterior with projecting angles; -- whence the name.  -- Star gauge (Ordnance), a long rod, with adjustable points projecting radially at its end, for measuring the size of different parts of the bore of a gun.  -- Star grass. (Bot.) (a) A small grasslike plant (Hypoxis erecta) having star-shaped yellow flowers. (b) The colicroot. See Colicroot.  -- Star hyacinth (Bot.), a bulbous plant of the genus Scilla (S. autumnalis); -- called also star-headed hyacinth.  -- Star jelly (Bot.), any one of several gelatinous plants (Nostoc commune, N. edule, etc.). See Nostoc.  -- Star lizard. (Zoöl.) Same as Stellion.  -- Star-of-Bethlehem (Bot.), a bulbous liliaceous plant (Ornithogalum umbellatum) having a small white starlike flower.  -- Star-of-the-earth (Bot.), a plant of the genus Plantago (P. coronopus), growing upon the seashore.  -- Star polygon (Geom.), a polygon whose sides cut each other so as to form a star-shaped figure.  -- Stars and Stripes, a popular name for the flag of the United States, which consists of thirteen horizontal stripes, alternately red and white, and a union having, in a blue field, white stars to represent the several States, one for each. With the old flag, the true American flag, the Eagle, and the Stars and Stripes, waving over the chamber in which we sit. D. Webster. -- Star showers. See Shooting star, under Shooting.  -- Star thistle (Bot.), an annual composite plant (Centaurea solstitialis) having the involucre armed with radiating spines.  -- Star wheel (Mach.), a star-shaped disk, used as a kind of ratchet wheel, in repeating watches and the feed motions of some machines.  -- Star worm (Zoöl.), a gephyrean.  -- Temporary star (Astron.), a star which appears suddenly, shines for a period, and then nearly or quite disappears. These stars are supposed by some astronometers to be variable stars of long and undetermined periods.  -- Variable star (Astron.), a star whose brilliancy varies periodically, generally with regularity, but sometimes irregularly; - - called periodical star when its changes occur at fixed periods.  -- Water star grass (Bot.), an aquatic plant (Schollera graminea) with small yellow starlike blossoms. 

STAR:  To set or adorn with stars, or bright, radiating bodies; to bespangle; as, a robe starred with gems. "A sable curtain starred with gold." Young. 

STAR:  To be bright, or attract attention, as a star; to shine like a star; to be brilliant or prominent; to play a part as a theatrical star. W. Irving.  STAR-BLIND Star"-blind`, a.  Half blind. 

STARBOARD:  That side of a vessel which is one of the right hand of a person who stands on board facing the bow; -- opposed to Ant: larboard, or Ant: port. 

STARBOARD:  Pertaining to the right-hand side of a ship; being or lying on the right side; as, the starboard quarter; starboard tack. 

STARBOARD:  To put to the right, or starboard, side of a vessel; as, to starboard the helm.  STAR-BOWLINES Star-"bow`lines, n. pl. (Naut.)  The men in the starboard watch. [Obs.] R. H. Dana, Jr. 

STARCH:  Stiff; precise; rigid. [R.] Killingbeck. 

STARCH:  A widely diffused vegetable substance found especially in seeds, bulbs, and tubers, and extracted (as from potatoes, corn, rice, etc.) as a white, glistening, granular or powdery substance, without taste or smell, and giving a very peculiar creaking sound when rubbed between the fingers. It is used as a food, in the production of commercial grape sugar, for stiffening linen in laundries, in making paste, etc.  Note: Starch is a carbohydrate, being the typical amylose, C6H10O5, and is detected by the fine blue color given to it by free iodine. It is not fermentable as such, but is changed by diastase into dextrin and maltose, and by heating with dilute acids into dextrose. Cf. Sugar, Inulin, and Lichenin.  2. Fig.: A stiff, formal manner; formality. Addison. Starch hyacinth (Bot.), the grape hyacinth; -- so called because the flowers have the smell of boiled starch. See under Grape. 

STARCH:  To stiffen with starch.  STAR-CHAMBER Star"-cham`ber, n. Etym: [So called (as conjectured by Blackstone) from being held in a room at the Exchequer where the chests containing certain Jewish comtracts and obligations called starrs (from the Heb. shetar, pron. shtar) were kept; or from the stars with which the ceiling is supposed to have been decorated.] (Eng. Hist.)  An ancient high court exercising jurisdiction in certain cases, mainly criminal, which sat without the intervention of a jury. It consisted of the king's council, or of the privy council only with the addition of certain judges. It could proceed on mere rumor or examine witnesses; it could apply torture. It was abolished by the Long Parliament in 1641. Encyc. Brit. 

STARCHEDNESS:  The quality or state of being starched; stiffness in manners; formality. 

STARCHER:  One who starches. 

STARCHLY:  In a starched or starch manner. 

STARCHNESS:  Of or pertaining to starched or starch; stiffness of manner; preciseness. 

STARCHWORT:  The cuckoopint, the tubers of which yield a fine quality of starch. 

STARCHY:  Consisting of starch; resembling starch; stiff; precise. 

STARCRAFT:  Astrology. [R.] Tennyson.  STAR-CROSSED Star"-crossed`, a.  Not favored by the stars; ill-fated. [Poetic] Shak. Such in my star-crossed destiny. Massinger.  STAR DRIFT Star drift. (Astron.)  Similar and probably related motion of the stars of an asterism, as distinguished from apparent change of place due to solar motion.-- ## = star streaming -- 

STARE:  The starling. [Obs.] 

STARE:  To look earnestly at; to gaze at. I will stare him out of his wits. Shak. To stare in the face, to be before the eyes, or to be undeniably evident. "The law . . . stares them in the face whilst they are breaking it." Locke. 

STARE:  The act of staring; a fixed look with eyes wide open. "A dull and stupid stare." Churchill. 

STARER:  One who stares, or gazes. 

STARF:  Starved. Chaucer. 

STARFINCH:  The European redstart. 

STARFISH:  Any one of numerous species of echinoderms belonging to the class Asterioidea, in which the body is star-shaped and usually has five rays, though the number of rays varies from five to forty or more. The rays are often long, but are sometimes so short as to appear only as angles to the disklike body. Called also sea star, five-finger, and stellerid.  Note: The ophiuroids are also sometimes called starfishes. See Brittle star, and Ophiuroidea.  2. (Zoöl.)  The dollar fish, or butterfish. 

STARGASER:  Any one of several species of spiny-rayed marine fishes belonging to Uranoscopus, Astroscopus, and allied genera, of the family Uranoscopidæ. The common species of the Eastern United States are Astroscopus anoplus, and A. guttatus. So called from the position of the eyes, which look directly upward. 

STARINGLY:  With a staring look. 

STARK:  Wholly; entirely; absolutely; quite; as, stark mind. Shak. Held him strangled in his arms till he was stark dead. Fuller. Stark naked, wholly naked; quite bare. Strip your sword stark naked. Shak.  Note: According to Professor Skeat, "stark-naked" is derived from steort-naked, or start-naked, literally tail-naked, and hence wholly naked. If this etymology be true the preferable form is stark-naked. 

STARK:  To stiffen. [R.] If horror have not starked your limbs. H. Taylor. 

STARKLY:  In a stark manner; stiffly; strongly. Its onward force too starky pent In figure, bone, and lineament. Emerson. 

STARKNESS:  The quality or state of being stark. 

STARLESS:  Being without stars; having no stars visible; as, a starless night. Milton. 

STARLIGHT:  The light given by the stars. Nor walk by moon, Or glittering starlight, without thee is sweet. Milton. 

STARLIGHT:  Lighted by the stars, or by the stars only; as, a starlight night. A starlight evening and a morning fair. Dryden. 

STARLING:  Any passerine bird belonging to Sturnus and allied genera. The European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) is dark brown or greenish black, with a metallic gloss, and spotted with yellowish white. It is a sociable bird, and builds about houses, old towers, etc. Called also stare, and starred. The pied starling of India is Sternopastor contra.  2. (Zoöl.)  A California fish; the rock trout.  3. A structure of piles driven round the piers of a bridge for protection and support; -- called also sterling. Rose-colored starling. (Zoöl.) See Pastor. 

STARLIT:  Lighted by the stars; starlight. 

STARMONGER:  A fortune teller; an astrologer; -- used in contempt. B. Jonson. 

STARN:  The European starling. [Prov. Eng.] 

STARNOSE:  A curious American mole (Condylura cristata) having the nose expanded at the end into a stellate disk; -- called also star-nosed mole. 

STAROST:  A nobleman who possessed a starosty. [Poland] 

STAROSTY:  A castle and domain conferred on a nobleman for life. [Poland] Brande & C. 

STARPROOF:  Impervious to the light of the stars; as, a starproof elm. [Poetic] Milton.  STAR-READ Star"-read`, n.  Doctrine or knowledge of the stars; star lore; astrology; astronomy. [Obs.] Which in star-read were wont have best insight. Spenser. 

STARRINESS:  The quality or state of being starry; as, the starriness of the heavens. 

STARSHINE:  The light of the stars. [R.] The starshine lights upon our heads. R. L. Stevenson. 

STARSHOOT:  See Nostoc.  STAR-SPANGLED Star"-span`gled, a.  Spangled or studded with stars. Star-spangled banner, the popular name for the national ensign of the United States. F. S. Key.  STAR STEREOGRAM Star stereogram.  A view of the universe of brighter stars as it would appear to an observer transported into space outside or beyond our universe of stars. 

STARSTONE:  Asteriated sapphire. 

START:  To pour out; to empty; to tap and begin drawing from; as, to start a water cask. 

START:  The arm, or level, of a gin, drawn around by a horse. 

STARTFUL:  Apt to start; skittish. [R.] 

STARTFULNESS:  Aptness to start. [R.] 

STARTHROAT:  Any humming bird of the genus Heliomaster. The feathers of the throat have a brilliant metallic luster. 

STARTING:  from Start, v. Starting bar (Steam Eng.), a hand lever for working the values in starting an engine.  -- Starting hole, a loophole; evasion. [Obs.] -- Starting point, the point from which motion begins, or from which anything starts.  -- Starting post, a post, stake, barrier, or place from which competitors in a race start, or begin the race. 

STARTINGLY:  By sudden fits or starts; spasmodically. Shak. 

STARTISH:  Apt to start; skittish; shy; -- said especially of a horse. [Colloq.] 

STARTLE:  To move suddenly, or be excited, on feeling alarm; to start. Why shrinks the soul Back on herself, and startles at destruction Addison. 

STARTLE:  A sudden motion or shock caused by an unexpected alarm, surprise, or apprehension of danger. After having recovered from my first startle, I was very well pleased with the accident. Spectator. 

STARTLINGLY:  In a startling manner. 

STARTLISH:  Easily startled; apt to start; startish; skittish; -- said especially of a hourse. [Colloq.]  START-UP Start"-up`, n.  1. One who comes suddenly into notice; an upstart. [Obs.] Shak.  2. A kind of high rustic shoe. [Obs.] Drayton. A startuppe, or clownish shoe. Spenser.  START-UP Start"-up`, a.  Upstart. [R.] Walpole. 

STARVATION:  The act of starving, or the state of being starved.  Note: This word was first used, according to Horace Walpole, by Henry Dundas, the first Lord Melville, in a speech on American affairs in 1775, which obtained for him the nickname of Starvation Dundas. "Starvation, we are also told, belongs to the class of 'vile compounds' from being a mongrel; as if English were not full of mongrels, and if it would not be in distressing straits without them." Fitzed. Hall. 

STARVEDLY:  In the condition of one starved or starving; parsimoniously. Some boasting housekeeper which keepth open doors for one day, . . . and lives starvedly all the year after. Bp. Hall. 

STARVELING:  One who, or that which, pines from lack or food, or nutriment. Old Sir John hangs with me, and thou knowest he is no starveling. Shak. 

STARVELING:  Hungry; lean; pining with want. 

STASIMON:  In the Greek tragedy, a song of the chorus, continued without the interruption of dialogue or anapæstics. Liddell & Scott. 

STASIS:  A slackening or arrest of the blood current in the vessels, due not to a lessening of the heart's beat, but presumably to some abnormal resistance of the capillary walls. It is one of the phenomena observed in the capillaries in inflammation. 

STATABLE:  That can be stated; as, a statablegrievance; the question at issue is statable. 

STATAL:  Of, pertaining to, or existing with reference to, a State of the American Union, as distinguished from the general government. [R.] I have no knowledge of any other kind of political citizenship, higher or lower, statal or national. Edward Bates. 

STATANT:  In a standing position; as, a lion statant. 

STATARIAN:  Fixed; settled; steady; statary. [Obs.] 

STATARIANLY:  Fixedly; steadly. [Obs.] 

STATARY:  Fixed; settled. [Obs.] "The set and statary times of paring of nails and cutting hair." Sir T. Browne. 

STATE:  A statement; also, a document containing a statement. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

STATECRAFT:  The art of conducting state affairs; state management; statesmanship. 

STATEDLY:  At stated times; regularly. 

STATEFUL:  Full of state; stately. [Obs.] "A stateful silence." Marston. 

STATEHOOD:  The condition of being a State; as, a territory seeking Statehood. 

STATEHOUSE:  The building in which a State legislature holds its sessions; a State capitol. [U. S.] 

STATELESS:  Without state or pomp. 

STATELILY:  In a stately manner. 

STATELINESS:  The quality or state of being stately. For stateliness and majesty, what is comparable to a horse Dr. H. More. 

STATELY:  Evincing state or dignity; lofty; majestic; grand; as, statelymanners; a stately gait. "The stately homes of England!" Mrs. Hemans. "Filled with stately temples." Prescott. Here is a stately style indeed! Shak.  Syn.  -- Lofty; dignified; majestic; grand; august; magnificent. 

STATELY:  Majestically; loftily. Milton. 

STATEMONGER:  One versed in politics, or one who dabbles in state affairs. 

STATEPRISON:  See under State, n. 

STATER:  One who states. 

STATER:  The principal gold coin of ancient Grece. It varied much in value, the stater best known at Athens being worth about £1 2s., or about $5.35. The Attic silver tetradrachm was in later times called stater. 

STATESMANLIKE:  Having the manner or wisdom of statesmen; becoming a statesman. 

STATESMANLY:  Becoming a statesman. 

STATESMANSHIP:  The qualifications, duties, or employments of a statesman.  STATE SOCIALISM State socialism.  A form of socialism, esp. advocated in Germany, which, while retaining the right of private property and the institution of the family and other features of the present form of the state, would intervene by various measures intended to give or maintain equality of opportunity, as compulsory state insurance, old-age pensions, etc., answering closely to socialism of the chair. 

STATESWOMAN:  A woman concerned in public affairs. A rare stateswoman; I admire her bearing. B. Jonson. 

STATHMOGRAPH:  A contrivance for recording the speed of a railway train. Knight.  STATIC; STATICAL Stat"ic, Stat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. statique. See Stand, and cf. Stage.]  1. Resting; acting by mere weight without motion; as, statical pressure; static objects.  2. Pertaining to bodies at rest or in equilibrium. Statical electricity. See Note under Electricity, 1.  -- Statical moment. See under Moment. 

STATICALLY:  In a statical manner. 

STATICS:  That branch of mechanics which treats of the equilibrium of forces, or relates to bodies as held at rest by the forces acting on them; -- distinguished from dynamics. Social statics, the study of the conditions which concern the existence and permanence of the social state. 

STATING:  The act of one who states anything; statement; as, the statingof one's opinions. 

STATION:  The particular place, or kind of situation, in which a species naturally occurs; a habitat. (e) (Naut.)  A place to which ships may resort, and where they may anchor safely. (f) A place or region to which a government ship or fleet is assigned for duty. (g) (Mil.) A place calculated for the rendezvous of troops, or for the distribution of them; also, a spot well adapted for offensive measures. Wilhelm (Mil. Dict.). (h) (Mining) An enlargement in a shaft or galley, used as a landing, or passing place, or for the accomodation of a pump, tank, etc.  4. Post assigned; office; the part or department of public duty which a person is appointed to perform; sphere of duty or occupation; employment. By spending this day [Sunday] in religious exercises, we acquire new strength and resolution to perform God's will in our several stations the week following. R. Nelson.  5. Situation; position; location. The fig and date -- why love they to remain In middle station, and an even plain Prior.  6. State; rank; condition of life; social status. The greater part have kept, I see, Their station. Milton. They in France of the best rank and station. Shak.  7. (Eccl.) (a) The fast of the fourth and sixth days of the week, Wednesday and Friday, in memory of the council which condemned Christ, and of his passion. (b) (R. C. Ch.) A church in which the procession of the clergy halts on stated days to say stated prayers. Addis & Arnold. (c) One of the places at which ecclesiastical processions pause for the performance of an act of devotion; formerly, the tomb of a martyr, or some similarly consecrated spot; now, especially, one of those representations of the successive stages of our Lord's passion which are often placed round the naves of large churches and by the side of the way leading to sacred edifices or shrines, and which are visited in rotation, stated services being performed at each; -- called also Station of the cross. Fairholt. Station bill. (Naut.) Same as Quarter bill, under Quarter.  -- Station house. (a) The house serving for the headquarters of the police assigned to a certain district, and as a place of temporary confinement. (b) The house used as a shelter at a railway station.  -- Station master, one who has charge of a station, esp. of a railway station.  -- Station pointer (Surv.), an instrument for locating on a chart the position of a place from which the angles subtended by three distant objects, whose positions are known, have been observed.  -- Station staff (Surv.), an instrument for taking angles in surveying. Craig.  Syn.  -- Station, Depot. In the United States, a stopping place on a railway for passengers and freight is commonly called a depot: but to a considerable extent in official use, and in common speech, the more appropriate name, station, has been adopted. 

STATION:  To place; to set; to appoint or assign to the occupation of a post, place, or office; as, to station troops on the right of an army; to station a sentinel on a rampart; to station ships on the coasts of Africa. He gained the brow of the hill, where the English phalanx was stationed. Lyttelton. 

STATIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a station. [R.] 

STATIONARINESS:  The quality or state of being stationary; fixity. 

STATIONARY:  One who, or that which, is stationary, as a planet when apparently it has neither progressive nor retrograde motion. Holland. 

STATIONERY:  The articles usually sold by stationers, as paper, pens, ink, quills, blank books, etc. 

STATIONERY:  Belonging to, or sold by, a stationer. 

STATISM:  The art of governing a state; statecraft; policy. [Obs.] The enemies of God . . . call our religion statism. South. 

STATIST:  Of or pertaining to statistics; as, statistical knowledge, statistical tabulation. 

STATISTICALLY:  In the way of statistics. 

STATISTICIAN:  One versed in statistics; one who collects and classifies facts for statistics. 

STATISTICS:  Classified facts respecting the condition of the people in a state, their health, their longevity, domestic economy, arts, property, and political strength, their resources, the state of the country, etc., or respecting any particular class or interest; especially, those facts which can be stated in numbers, or in tables of numbers, or in any tabular and classified arrangement.  The branch of mathematics which studies methods for the calculation of probabilities. 

STATISTOLOGY:  See Statistics, 2. 

STATIVE:  Of or pertaining to a fixed camp, or military posts or quarters. [Obs. or R.] 

STATOBLAST:  One of a peculiar kind of internal buds, or germs, produced in the interior of certain Bryozoa and sponges, especially in the fresh- water species; -- also called winter buds.  Note: They are protected by a firm covering, and are usually destined to perpetuate the species during the winter season. They burst open and develop in the spring. In some fresh-water sponges they serve to preserve the species during the dry season. See Illust. under Phylactolæmata. 

STATOCRACY:  Government by the state, or by political power, in distinction from government by ecclesiastical power. [R.] O. A. Brownson. 

STATOR:  A stationary part in or about which another part (the rotor) revolves, esp. when both are large; as,  (a) (Elec.) The stationary member of an electrical machine, as of an induction motor.  (b) (Steam Turbine) The case inclosing a turbine wheel; the body of stationary blades or nozzles. 

STATUA:  A statue. [Obs.] They spake not a word; But, like dumb statuas or breathing stones, Gazed each on other. Shak. 

STATUARY:  The art of carving statues or images as representatives of real persons or things; a branch of sculpture. Sir W. Temple.  3. A collection of statues; statues, collectively. 

STATUE:  To place, as a statue; to form a statue of; to make into a statue. "The whole man becomes as if statued into stone and earth." Feltham. 

STATUED:  Adorned with statues. "The statued hall." Longfellow. "Statued niches." G. Eliot. 

STATUELESS:  Without a statue. 

STATUELIKE:  Like a statue; motionless. 

STATUESQUE:  Partaking of, or exemplifying, the characteristics of a statue; having the symmetry, or other excellence, of a statue artistically made; as, statuesquelimbs; a statuesque attitude. Their characters are mostly statuesque even in this respect, that they have no background. Hare. 

STATUESQUELY:  In a statuesque manner; in a way suggestive of a statue; like a statue. A character statuesquely simple in its details. Lowell. 

STATUETTE:  A small statue; -- usually applied to a figure much less than life size, especially when of marble or bronze, or of plaster or clay as a preparation for the marble or bronze, as distinguished from a figure in terra cotta or the like. Cf. Figurine. 

STATUMINATE:  To prop or support. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

STATURE:  The natural height of an animal body; -- generally used of the human body. Foreign men of mighty stature came. Dryden. 

STATURED:  Arrived at full stature. [R.] 

STATUS:  State; condition; position of affairs.  STATUS IN QUO; STATUS QUO Sta"tus in` quo", Sta"tus quo". Etym: [L., state in which.]  The state in which anything is already. The phrase is also used retrospectively, as when, on a treaty of place, matters return to the status quo ante bellum, or are left in statu quo ante bellum, i.e., the state (or, in the state) before the war. 

STATUTABLY:  Conformably to statute. 

STATUTORY:  Enacted by statute; depending on statute for its authority; as, a statutory provision.  STAUNCH; STAUNCHLY; STAUNCHNESS Staunch, Staunch"ly, Staunch"ness, etc.  See Stanch, Stanchly, etc. 

STAUROLITE:  A mineral of a brown to black color occurring in prismatic crystals, often twinned so as to form groups resembling a cross. It is a silicate of aluminia and iron, and is generally found imbedded in mica schist. Called also granatite, and grenatite. 

STAUROLITIC:  Of or pertaining to staurolite; resembling or containing staurolite. 

STAUROSCOPE:  An optical instrument used in determining the position of the planes of light-vibration in sections of crystals. 

STAUROTIDE:  Staurolite. 

STAVE:  The five horizontal and parallel lines on and between which musical notes are written or pointed; the staff. [Obs.] Stave jointer, a machine for dressing the edges of staves. 

STAVE:  To burst in pieces by striking against something; to dash into fragments. Like a vessel of glass she stove and sank. Longfellow. 

STAVES:  pl. of Staff. "Banners, scarves and staves." R. Browning. Also (stavz),  pl. of Stave. 

STAVESACRE:  A kind of larkspur (Delphinium Staphysagria), and its seeds, which are violently purgative and emetic. They are used as a parasiticide, and in the East for poisoning fish. 

STAVEWOOD:  A tall tree (Simaruba amara) growing in tropical America. It is one of the trees which yields quassia. 

STAVING:  A cassing or lining of staves; especially, one encircling a water wheel. 

STAW:  To be fixed or set; to stay. [Prov. Eng.] 

STAY:  A large, strong rope, employed to support a mast, by being extended from the head of one mast down to some other, or to some part of the vessel. Those which lead forward are called fore-and-aft stays; those which lead to the vessel's side are called backstays. See Illust. of Ship. In stays, or Hove in stays (Naut.), in the act or situation of staying, or going about from one tack to another. R. H. Dana, Jr.  -- Stay holes (Naut.), openings in the edge of a staysail through which the hanks pass which join it to the stay.  -- Stay tackle (Naut.), a tackle attached to a stay and used for hoisting or lowering heavy articles over the side.  -- To miss stays (Naut.), to fail in the attempt to go about. Totten.  -- Triatic stay (Naut.), a rope secured at the ends to the heads of the foremast and mainmast with thimbles spliced to its bight into which the stay tackles hook. 

STAY:  To fasten or secure with stays; as, to stay a flat sheet in a steam boiler.  9. (Naut.)  To tack, as a vessel, so that the other side of the vessel shall be presented to the wind. To stay a mast (Naut.), to incline it forward or aft, or to one side, by the stays and backstays. 

STAY:  To change tack; as a ship. 

STAY:  A corset stiffened with whalebone or other material, worn by women, and rarely by men. How the strait stays the slender waist constrain. Gay.  3. Continuance in a place; abode for a space of time; sojourn; as, you make a short stay in this city. Make haste, and leave thy business and thy care; No mortal interest can be worth thy stay. Dryden. Embrace the hero and his stay implore. Waller.  4. Cessation of motion or progression; stand; stop. Made of sphere metal, never to decay Until his revolution was at stay. Milton. Affairs of state seemed rather to stand at a stay. Hayward.  5. Hindrance; let; check. [Obs.] They were able to read good authors without any stay, if the book were not false. Robynson (more's Utopia).  6. Restraint of passion; moderation; caution; steadiness; sobriety. [Obs.] "Not grudging that thy lust hath bounds and stays." Herbert. The wisdom, stay, and moderation of the king. Bacon. With prudent stay he long deferred The rough contention. Philips.  7. (Engin.)  Strictly, a part in tension to hold the parts together, or stiffen them. Stay bolt (Mech.), a bolt or short rod, connecting opposite plates, so as to prevent them from being bulged out when acted upon by a pressure which tends to force them apart, as in the leg of a steam boiler.  -- Stay busk, a stiff piece of wood, steel, or whalebone, for the front support of a woman's stays. Cf. Busk.  -- Stay rod, a rod which acts as a stay, particularly in a steam boiler. 

STAYED:  Staid; fixed; settled; sober; -- now written staid. See Staid. Bacon. Pope. 

STAYEDLY:  Staidly. See Staidly. [R.] 

STAYER:  One who upholds or supports that which props; one who, or that which, stays, stops, or restrains; also, colloquially, a horse, man, etc., that has endurance, an a race. 

STAYLACE:  A lace for fastening stays. 

STAYLESS:  Without stop or delay. Mir. for Mag. 

STAYMAKER:  One whose occupation is to make stays. 

STAYNIL:  The European starling. [Prov. Eng.] 

STAYSAIL:  Any sail extended on a stay. 

STAYSHIP:  A remora, -- fabled to stop ships by attaching itself to them. 

STEADFASTLY:  In a steadfast manner; firmly. Steadfast believe that whatever God has revealed is infallibly true. Wake. 

STEADFASTNESS:  The quality or state of being steadfast; firmness; fixedness; constancy. "The steadfastness of your faith." Col. ii. 5. To prove her wifehood and her steadfastness. Chaucer. 

STEADILY:  In a steady manner. 

STEADINESS:  The quality or state of being steady. Steadiness is a point of prudence as well as of courage. L'Estrange.  Syn.  -- Constancy; resolution; unchangeableness. 

STEADING:  The brans, stables, cattle-yards, etc., of a farm; -- called also onstead, farmstead, farm offices, or farmery. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

STEADY:  To make steady; to hold or keep from shaking, reeling, or falling; to make or keep firm; to support; to make constant, regular, or resolute. 

STEADY:  To become steady; to regain a steady position or state; to move steadily. Without a breeze, without a tide, She steadies with upright keel. Coleridge. 

STEAK:  A slice of beef, broiled, or cut for broiling; -- also extended to the meat of other large animals; as, venison steak; bear steak; pork steak; turtle steak. 

STEAL:  A handle; a stale, or stele. [Archaic or Prov. Eng.] And in his hand a huge poleax did bear. Whose steale was iron-studded but not long. Spenser. 

STEALER:  The endmost plank of a strake which stops short of the stem or stern. 

STEALINGLY:  By stealing, or as by stealing, furtively, or by an invisible motion. Sir P. Sidney. 

STEALTHFUL:  Given to stealth; stealthy. [Obs.] -- Stealth"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Stealth"ful*ness, n. [Obs.] 

STEALTHILY:  In a stealthy manner. 

STEALTHINESS:  The state, quality, or character of being stealthy; stealth. 

STEALTHLIKE:  Stealthy; sly. Wordsworth. 

STEALTHY:  Done by stealth; accomplished clandestinely; unperceived; secret; furtive; sly. [Withered murder] with his stealthy pace, . . . Moves like a ghost. Shak. 

STEAMBOAT:  A boat or vessel propelled by steam power; -- generally used of river or coasting craft, as distinguished from ocean steamers. 

STEAMBOATING:  The shearing of a pile of books which are as yet uncovered, or out of boards. Knight.  STEAM ENGINE Steam" en"gine.  An engine moved by steam.  Note: In its most common forms its essential parts are a piston, a cylinder, and a valve gear. The piston works in the cylinder, to which steam is admitted by the action of the valve gear, and communicates motion to the machinery to be actuated. Steam engines are thus classified: 1. According to the wat the steam is used or applied, as condencing, noncondencing, compound, double-acting, single-acting, triple-expansion, etc. 2. According to the motion of the piston, as reciprocating, rotary, etc. 3. According to the motion imparted by the engine, as rotative and nonrotative. 4. According to the arrangement of the engine, as stationary, portable, and semiportable engines, beam engine, oscillating engine, direct-acting and back-acting engines, etc. 5. According to their uses, as portable, marine, locomotive, pumping, blowing, winding, and stationary engines. Locomotive and portable engines are usually high- pressure, noncondencing, rotative, and direct-acting. Marine engines are high or low pressure, rotative, and generally condencing, double- acting, and compound. Paddle engines are generally beam, sideScrew engines are generally direct-acting, back-acting, or oscillating. Stationary engines belong to various classes, but are generally rotative. A horizontal or inclined stationary steam engine is called a left-hand or a right-hand engine when the crank shaft and driving pulley are on the left-hand side, or the right-hand side, respectively, or the engine, to a person looking at them from the cylinder, and is said to run forward or backward when the crank traverses the upward half, or lower half, respectively, of its path, while the piston rod makes its stroke outward from the cylinder. A marine engine, or the engine of a locomotive, is said to run forward when its motion is such as would propel the vessel or the locomotive forward. Steam engines are further classified as double-cylinder, disk, semicylinder, trunk engines, etc. Machines, such as cranes, hammers, etc., of which the steam engine forms a part, are called steam cranes, steam hammers, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. Back- acting, or Back-action, steam engine, a steam engine in which the motion is transmitted backward from the crosshead to a crank which is between the crosshead and the cylinder, or beyond the cylinder.  -- Portable steam engine, a steam engine combined with, and attached to, a boiler which is mounted on wheels so as to admit of easy transportation; -- used for driving machinery in the field, as trashing machines, draining pumps, etc.  -- Semiportable steam engine, a steam engine combined with, and attached to, a steam boiler, but not mounted on wheels. 

STEAMER:  The steamer duck. Steamer duck (Zoöl.), a sea duck (Tachyeres cinereus), native of Patagonia and Terra del Fuego, which swims and dives with great agility, but which, when full grown, is incapable of flight, owing to its very small wings. Called also loggerhead, race horse, and side wheel duck. 

STEAMINESS:  The quality or condition of being steamy; vaporousness; mistness. 

STEAMSHIP:  A ship or seagoing vessel propelled by the power of steam; a steamer. 

STEAMY:  Consisting of, or resembling, steam; full of steam; vaporous; misty. Cowper. 

STEAN:  See Steen. Spenser. 

STEANINGP:  See Steening. 

STEAPSIN:  An unorganized ferment or enzyme present in pancreatic juice. It decomposes neutral fats into glycerin and fatty acids. 

STEARATE:  A salt of stearic acid; as, ordinary soap consists largely of sodium or potassium stearates. 

STEARIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, stearin or tallow; resembling tallow. Stearic acid (Chem.), a monobasic fatty acid, obtained in the form of white crystalline scales, soluble in alcohol and ether. It melts to an oily liquid at 69°C.C18H36O2, CH3.(CH2)16.COOH; sodium stearate, with sodium palmitate, is the main component of ordinary bar soaps (Such as Ivory soap). 

STEARIN:  One of the constituents of animal fats and also of some vegetable fats, as the butter of cacao. It is especially characterized by its solidity, so that when present in considerable quantity it materially increases the hardness, or raises the melting point, of the fat, as in mutton tallow. Chemically, it is a compound of glyceryl with three molecules of stearic acid, and hence is technically called tristearin, or glyceryl tristearate. 

STEAROLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acetylene series, isologous with stearis acid, and obtained, as a white crystalline substance, from oleïc acid. 

STEARONE:  The ketone of stearic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, (C17H35)2.CO, by the distillation of calcium stearate. 

STEAROPTENE:  The more solid ingredient of certain volatile oils; -- contrasted with elæoptene. 

STEARRHEA:  seborrhea. 

STEARYL:  The hypothetical radical characteristic of stearic acid. 

STEATITE:  A massive variety of talc, of a grayish green or brown color. It forms extensive beds, and is quarried for fireplaces and for coarse utensils. Called also potstone, lard stone, and soapstone. 

STEATITIC:  Pertaining to, or of the nature of, steatite; containing or resembling steatite. 

STEATOMA:  A cyst containing matter like suet. 

STEATOMATOUS:  Of the nature of steatoma. 

STEATOPYGA:  A remarkable accretion of fat upon the buttocks of Africans of certain tribes, especially of Hottentot women. 

STEATOPYGOUS:  Having fat buttocks. Specimens of the steatopygous Abyssinian breed. Burton.  STED; STEDFAST; STEDFASTLY Sted, n., Sted"fast, a., Sted"fast*ly, adv., etc.  See Stead, Steadfast, etc. 

STEE:  A ladder. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] [Written also stey.] 

STEED:  A horse, especially a spirited horse for state of war; -- used chiefly in poetry or stately prose. "A knight upon a steed." Chaucer. Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed. Shak. 

STEEDLESS:  Having no steed; without a horse.  STEEK; STEIK Steek, Steik, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Stick, v. t.]  To pierce with a sharp instrument; hence, to stitch; to sew; also, to fix; to fasten. [Scot.] 

STEEL:  A variety of iron intermediate in composition and properties between wrought iron and cast iron (containing between one half of one per cent and one and a half per cent of carbon), and consisting of an alloy of iron with an iron carbide. Steel, unlike wrought iron, can be tempered, and retains magnetism. Its malleability decreases, and fusibility increases, with an increase in carbon.  2. An instrument or implement made of steel; as: -- (a) A weapon, as a sword, dagger, etc. "Brave Macbeth . . . with his brandished steel." Shak. While doubting thus he stood, Received the steel bathed in his brother's blood. Dryden.  (b) An instrument of steel (usually a round rod) for sharpening knives. (c) A piece of steel for striking sparks from flint.  3. Fig.: Anything of extreme hardness; that which is characterized by sternness or rigor. "Heads of steel." Johnson. "Manhood's heart of steel." Byron.  4. (Med.)  A chalybeate medicine. Dunglison.  Note: Steel is often used in the formation of compounds, generally of obvious meaning; as, steel-clad, steel-girt, steel-hearted, steel- plated, steel-pointed, etc. Bessemer steel (Metal.) See in the Vocabulary.  -- Blister steel. (Metal.) See under Blister.  -- Cast steel (Metal.), a fine variety of steel, originally made by smelting blister or cementation steel; hence, ordinarily, steel of any process of production when remelted and cast.  -- Cromium steel (Metal.), a hard, tenacious variety containing a little cromium, and somewhat resembling tungsten steel.  -- Mild steel (Metal.), a kind of steel having a lower proportion of carbon than ordinary steel, rendering it softer and more malleable.  -- Puddled steel (Metal.), a variety of steel produced from cast iron by the puddling process.  -- Steel duck (Zoöl.), the goosander, or merganser. [Prov. Eng.] -- Steel mill. (a) (Firearms) See Wheel lock, under Wheel. (b) A mill which has steel grinding surfaces. (c) A mill where steel is manufactured.  -- Steel trap, a trap for catching wild animals. It consists of two iron jaws, which close by means of a powerful steel spring when the animal disturbs the catch, or tongue, by which they are kept open.  -- Steel wine, wine, usually sherry, in which steel filings have been placed for a considerable time, -- used as a medicine.  -- Tincture of steel (Med.), an alcoholic solution of the chloride of iron.  -- Tungsten steel (Metal.), a variety of steel containing a small amount of tungsten, and noted for its tenacity and hardness, as well as for its malleability and tempering qualities. It is also noted for its magnetic properties. 

STEEL:  To cover, as an electrotype plate, with a thin layer of iron by electrolysis. The iron thus deposited is very hard, like steel.  STEELBOW GOODS Steel"bow` goods". (Scots Law)  Those goods on a farm, such as corn, cattle, implements husbandry, etc., which may not be carried off by a removing tenant, as being the property of the landlord. 

STEELER:  One who points, edges, or covers with steel. 

STEELER:  Same as Stealer. 

STEELHEAD:  A North Pacific salmon (Salmo Gairdneri) found from Northern California to Siberia; -- called also hardhead, and preesil.  2. (Zoöl.)  The ruddy duck. 

STEELINESS:  The quality of being steely. 

STEELING:  The process of pointing, edging, or overlaying with steel; specifically, acierage. See Steel, v. 

STEELYARD:  A form of balance in which the body to be weighed is suspended from the shorter arm of a lever, which turns on a fulcrum, and a counterpoise is caused to slide upon the longer arm to produce equilibrium, its place upon this arm (which is notched or graduated) indicating the weight; a Roman balance; -- very commonly used also in the plural form, steelyards. 

STEEM:  See Esteem. [Obs.] Spenser. 

STEEM:  See 1st and 2nd Stem. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STEEN:  To line, as a well, with brick, stone, or other hard material. [Written also stean, and stein.] 

STEENBOK:  Same as Steinbock. 

STEENING:  A lining made of brick, stone, or other hard material, as for a well. [Written also steaning.]  STEENKIRK; STEINKIRK Steen"kirk`, Stein"kirk`, n. Etym: [So called from the battle of Steinkirk, in 1692, on which occasion the French nobles had no time to arrange their lace neckcloths.]  A kind of neckcloth worn in a loose and disorderly fashion. 

STEEP:  Bright; glittering; fiery. [Obs.] His eyen steep, and rolling in his head. Chaucer. 

STEEP:  To soak in a liquid; to macerate; to extract the essence of by soaking; as, to soften seed by steeping it in water. Often used figuratively. Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep. Shak. In refreshing dew to steep The little, trembling flowers. Wordsworth. The learned of the nation were steeped in Latin. Earle. 

STEEP:  To undergo the process of soaking in a liquid; as, the tea is steeping. [Colloq.] 

STEEP:  A precipitous place, hill, mountain, rock, or ascent; any elevated object sloping with a large angle to the plane of the horizon; a precipice. Dryden. We had on each side naked rocks and mountains broken into a thousand irregular steeps and precipices. Addison. Bare steeps, where desolation stalks. Wordsworth.  STEEP-DOWN Steep"-down`, a.  Deep and precipitous, having steep descent. [R.] Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire. Shak. 

STEEPEN:  To become steep or steeper. As the way steepened . . . I could detect in the hollow of the hill some traces of the old path. H. Miller. 

STEEPER:  A vessel, vat, or cistern, in which things are steeped. 

STEEPINESS:  Steepness. Howell. 

STEEPISH:  Somewhat steep. Carlyle. 

STEEPLE:  A spire; also, the tower and spire taken together; the whole of a structure if the roof is of spire form. See Spire. "A weathercock on a steeple." Shak. Rood steeple. See Rood tower, under Rood.  -- Steeple bush (Bot.), a low shrub (Spiræa tomentosa) having dense panicles of minute rose-colored flowers; hardhack.  -- Steeple chase, a race across country between a number of horsemen, to see which can first reach some distant object, as a church steeple; hence, a race over a prescribed course obstructed by such obstacles as one meets in riding across country, as hedges, walls, etc.  -- Steeple chaser, one who rides in a steeple chase; also, a horse trained to run in a steeple chase.  -- Steeple engine, a vertical back-acting steam engine having the cylinder beneath the crosshead.  -- Steeple house, a church. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

STEEPLECHASING:  The act of riding steeple chases.  STEEPLE-CROWNED Stee"ple-crowned`, a.  1. Bearing a steeple; as, a steeple-crowned building.  2. Having a crown shaped like a steeple; as, a steeple-crowned hat; also, wearing a hat with such a crown. This grave, beared, sable-cloaked, and steeple-crowned progenitor. Hawthorne. 

STEEPLED:  Furnished with, or having the form of, a steeple; adorned with steeples. Fairfax. 

STEEPLY:  In a steep manner; with steepness; with precipitous declivity. 

STEEPNESS:  Lofty and precipitous. [R.] Her stand she takes upon a steep-up hill. Shak. 

STEEPY:  Steep; precipitous. [Poetic] No more, my goats, shall I belong you climb The steepy cliffs, or crop the flow'ry thyme. Dryden. 

STEER:  A young male of the ox kind; especially, a common ox; a castrated taurine male from two to four years old. See the Note under Ox. 

STEER:  To castrate; -- said of male calves. 

STEER:  To direct the course of; to guide; to govern; -- applied especially to a vessel in the water. That with a staff his feeble steps did steer. Spenser. 

STEER:  A rudder or helm. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STEER:  A helmsman, a pilot. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STEERABLE:  Capable of being steered; dirigible. 

STEERAGEWAY:  A rate of motion through the water sufficient to render a vessel governable by the helm. 

STEERER:  One who steers; as, a boat steerer. 

STEERING:  from Steer, v. Steering wheel (Naut.), the wheel by means of which the rudder of a vessel is turned and the vessel is steered. 

STEERLESS:  Having no rudder. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STEERLING:  A young small steer. 

STEERSMAN:  One who steers; the helmsman of a vessel. Milton. 

STEERSMATE:  One who steers; steersman. [Obs.] Milton. 

STEEVE:  To project upward, or make an angle with the horizon or with the line of a vessel's keel; -- said of the bowsprit, etc. 

STEEVE:  To elevate or fix at an angle with the horizon; -- said of the bowsprit, etc.  2. To stow, as bales in a vessel's hold, by means of a steeve. See Steeve, n. (b). 

STEEVING:  See Steeve, n. (a). 

STEG:  A gander. [Written also stag.] [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

STEGANOGRAPHIST:  One skilled in steganography; a cryptographer. 

STEGANOGRAPHY:  The art of writing in cipher, or in characters which are not intelligible except to persons who have the key; cryptography. 

STEGANOPHTHALMATA:  The Discophora, or Phanerocarpæ. Called also Steganophthalmia. 

STEGANOPOD:  One of the Steganopodes. 

STEGANOPODES:  A division of swimming birds in which all four toes are united by a broad web. It includes the pelicans, cormorants, gannets, and others. 

STEGANOPODOUS:  Having all four toes webbed together. 

STEGNOSIS:  Constipation; also, constriction of the vessels or ducts. 

STEGNOTIC:  Tending to render costive, or to diminish excretions or discharges generally.  -- n.  A stegnotic medicine; an astringent. 

STEGOCEPHALA:  An extinct order of amphibians found fossil in the Mesozoic rocks; called also Stegocephali, and Labyrinthodonta.  Note: Their teeth, in transverse sections, usually show a labyrinthiform arrangement of the cement and dentine. The under side of the body was covered with bony plates. Some of the Stegocephala were of very large size, and the form of the body varied from short, stout forms to others that were as slender as serpents. 

STEGOSAURIA:  An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs, including the genera Stegosaurus, Omosaurus, and their allies. 

STEGOSAURUS:  A genus of large Jurassic dinosaurs remarkable for a powerful dermal armature of plates and spines. 

STEIK:  See Steek. [Scot.] 

STEIN:  See Steen. 

STEINGALE:  The stannel. [Prov. Eng.] 

STEINING:  See Steening. 

STEINKIRK:  Same as Steenkirk. 

STEINKLE:  The wheater. [Prov. Eng.] 

STELA:  A small column or pillar, used as a monument, milestone, etc. 

STELE:  Same as Stela. One of these steles, containing the Greek version of the ordinance, has recently been discovered. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 

STELE:  A stale, or handle; a stalk. [Obs.] Chaucer. Holland. 

STELENE:  Resembling, or used as, a stela; columnar. [R.] 

STELL:  To place or fix firmly or permanently. [Obs.] Shak. 

STELL:  Starlike; having similar parts radiating from a common center; as, stellate flowers. 

STELLATION:  Radiation of light. [Obs.] 

STELLED:  Firmly placed or fixed. [Obs.] "The stelled fires" [the stars]. Shak.  Note: [In this passage by some defined as "starry," as if from stellatus.] 

STELLER:  The rytina; -- called also stellerine. 

STELLERID:  A starfish. 

STELLERIDA:  An extensive group of echinoderms, comprising the starfishes and ophiurans.  STELLERIDAN; STELLERIDEAN Stel*ler"i*dan, Stel`ler*id"e*an, n. (Zoöl.)  A starfish, or brittle star. 

STELLIFEROUS:  Having, or abounding with, stars. 

STELLIFORM:  Like a star; star-shaped; radiated. 

STELLIFY:  To turn into a star; to cause to appear like a star; to place among the stars, or in heaven. [Obs. or R.] B. Jonson. 

STELLION:  A lizard (Stellio vulgaris), common about the Eastern Mediterranean among ruins. In color it is olive-green, shaded with black, with small stellate spots. Called also hardim, and star lizard. 

STELLIONATE:  Any fraud not distinguished by a more special name; -- chiefly applied to sales of the same property to two different persons, or selling that for one's own which belongs to another, etc. Erskine. 

STELLULATE:  Minutely stellate. 

STELMATOPODA:  Same as Gymnolæmata. 

STELOGRAPHY:  The art of writing or inscribing characters on pillars. [R.] Stackhouse.  STEM; STEEM Stem, Steem, v. i.  To gleam. [Obs.] His head bald, that shone as any glass, . . . [And] stemed as a furnace of a leed [caldron]. Chaucer.  STEM; STEEM Stem, Steem, n.  A gleam of light; flame. [Obs.] 

STEM:  A curved piece of timber to which the two sides of a ship are united at the fore end. The lower end of it is scarfed to the keel, and the bowsprit rests upon its upper end. Hence, the forward part of a vessel; the bow.  6. Fig.: An advanced or leading position; the lookout. Wolsey sat at the stem more than twenty years. Fuller.  7. Anything resembling a stem or stalk; as, the stem of a tobacco pipe; the stem of a watch case, or that part to which the ring, by which it is suspended, is attached.  8. (Bot.)  That part of a plant which bears leaves, or rudiments of leaves, whether rising above ground or wholly subterranean.  9. (Zoöl.) (a) The entire central axis of a feather. (b) The basal portion of the body of one of the Pennatulacea, or of a gorgonian.  10. (Mus.)  The short perpendicular line added to the body of a note; the tail of a crotchet, quaver, semiquaver, etc.  11. (Gram.)  The part of an inflected word which remains unchanged (except by euphonic variations) throughout a given inflection; theme; base. From stem to stern (Naut.), from one end of the ship to the other, or through the whole length.  -- Stem leaf (Bot.), a leaf growing from the stem of a plant, as contrasted with a basal or radical leaf. 

STEM:  To oppose or cut with, or as with, the stem of a vessel; to resist, or make progress against; to stop or check the flow of, as a current. "An argosy to stem the waves." Shak. [They] stem the flood with their erected breasts. Denham. Stemmed the wild torrent of a barbarous age. Pope. 

STEM:  To move forward against an obstacle, as a vessel against a current. Stemming nightly toward the pole. Milton.  STEM-CLASPING Stem"-clasp`ing, a. (Bot.)  Embracing the stem with its base; amplexicaul; as a leaf or petiole. 

STEMLESS:  Having no stem; (Bot.) acaulescent. 

STEMLET:  A small or young stem. 

STEMMER:  One who, or that which, stems (in any of the senses of the verbs). 

STEMMERY:  A large building in which tobacco is stemmed. [U. S.] Bartlett. 

STEMMY:  Abounding in stems, or mixed with stems; -- said of tea, dried currants, etc. [Colloq.] 

STEMPLE:  A crossbar of wood in a shaft, serving as a step. 

STEMSON:  A piece of curved timber bolted to the stem, keelson, and apron in a ship's frame near the bow.  STEM-WINDER Stem"-wind`er, n.  A stem-winding watch. [Colloq.]  STEM-WINDING Stem"-wind`ing, a.  Wound by mechanism connected with the stem; as, a stem-winding watch. 

STENCH:  To stanch. [Obs.] Harvey. 

STENCH:  To cause to emit a disagreeable odor; to cause to stink. [Obs.] Young. 

STENCHY:  Having a stench. [Obs.] Dyer. 

STENCIL:  A thin plate of metal, leather, or other material, used in painting, marking, etc. The pattern is cut out of the plate, which is then laid flat on the surface to be marked, and the color brushed over it. Called also stencil plate. 

STENCIL:  To mark, paint, or color in figures with stencils; to form or print by means of a stencil. 

STENCILER:  One who paints or colors in figures by means of stencil. [Written also stenciller.] 

STENODERM:  Any species of bat belonging to the genus Stenoderma, native of the West Indies and South America. These bats have a short or rudimentary tail and a peculiarly shaped nose membrane. 

STENODERMINE:  Of or pertaining to the genus Stenoderma, which includes several West Indian and South American nose-leaf bats. 

STENOGRAPH:  To write or report in stenographic characters. 

STENOGRAPH:  A production of stenography; anything written in shorthand. I saw the reporters' room, in which they redact their hasty stenographs. Emerson. 

STENOGRAPHER:  One who is skilled in stenography; a writer of shorthand.  STENOGRAPHIC; STENOGRAPHICAL Sten`o*graph"ic, Sten`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sténographique.]  Of or pertaining to stenography. 

STENOGRAPHIST:  A stenographer. 

STENOGRAPHY:  The art of writing in shorthand, by using abbreviations or characters for whole words; shorthand. 

STENOPHYLLOUS:  Having narrow leaves. 

STENOSIS:  A narrowing of the opening or hollow of any passage, tube, or orifice; as, stenosis of the pylorus. It differs from stricture in being applied especially to diffused rather than localized contractions, and in always indicating an origin organic and not spasmodic. 

STENOSTOME:  Having a small or narrow mouth; -- said of certain small ground snakes (Opoterodonta), which are unable to dilate their jaws. 

STENT:  To keep within limits; to restain; to cause to stop, or cease; to stint. Then would he weep, he might not be stent. Chaucer. Yet n'ould she stent Her bitter railing and foul revilement. Spenser. 

STENT:  To stint; to stop; to cease. And of this cry they would never stenten. Chaucer. 

STENT:  An allotted portion; a stint. "Attain'd his journey's stent." Mir. for Mag. 

STENTING:  An opening in a wall in a coal mine. [Written also stenton.] [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

STENTOR:  Any species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to the genus Stentor and allied genera, common in fresh water. The stentors have a bell-shaped, or cornucopia-like, body with a circle of cilia around the spiral terminal disk. See Illust. under Heterotricha.  3. (Zoöl.)  A howling monkey, or howler. 

STENTORIAN:  Of or pertaining to a stentor; extremely loud; powerful; as, a stentorian voice; stentorian lungs. 

STENTORIN:  A blue coloring matter found in some stentors. See Stentor, 2. 

STENTORIOUS:  Stentorian. [R.] 

STENTORONIC:  Stentorian. [Obs.] 

STENTOROPHONIC:  Speaking or sounding very loud; stentorian. [Obs.] Of this stentorophonic horn of Alexander there is a preserved in the Vatican. Derham. 

STEP:  To fix the foot of (a mast) in its step; to erect. To step off, to measure by steps, or paces; hence, to divide, as a space, or to form a series of marks, by successive measurements, as with dividers. 

STEP:  Walk; passage. Conduct my steps to find the fatal tree. Dryden.  9. pl.  A portable framework of stairs, much used indoors in reaching to a high position.  10. (Naut.)  In general, a framing in wood or iron which is intended to receive an upright shaft; specif., a block of wood, or a solid platform upon the keelson, supporting the heel of the mast.  11. (Mach.) (a) One of a series of offsets, or parts, resembling the steps of stairs, as one of the series of parts of a cone pulley on which the belt runs. (b) A bearing in which the lower extremity of a spindle or a vertical shaft revolves.  12. (Mus.)  The intervak between two contiguous degrees of the csale.  Note: The word tone is often used as the name of this interval; but there is evident incongruity in using tone for indicating the interval between tones. As the word scale is derived from the Italian scala, a ladder, the intervals may well be called steps.  13. (Kinematics)  A change of position effected by a motion of translation. W. K. Clifford. Back step, Half step, etc. See under Back, Half, etc.  -- Step grate, a form of grate for holding fuel, in which the bars rise above one another in the manner of steps.  -- To take steps, to take action; to move in a matter.  STEP- Step-. Etym: [AS. steóp-; akin to OFries. stiap-, stiep-, D. & G. stief-, OHG. stiuf-, Icel. stj, Sw. styf-, and to AS. astepan, asteópan, to deprive, bereave, as children of their parents, OHG. stiufen.]  A prefix used before father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, child, etc., to indicate that the person thus spoken of is not a blood relative, but is a relative by the marriage of a parent; as, a stepmother to X is the wife of the father of X, married by him after the death of the mother of X. See Stepchild, Stepdaughter, Stepson, etc. 

STEPBROTHER:  A brother by the marriage of one's father with the mother of another, or of one's mother with the father of another. 

STEPDAME:  A stepmother. Spenser. 

STEPDAUGHTER:  A daughter of one's wife or husband by a former marriage.  STEP-DOWN Step"-down`, a. (Elec.)  Transforming or converting a current of high potential or pressure into one of low pressure; as, a step-down transformer. 

STEPFATHER:  The husband of one's mother by a subsequent marriage. 

STEPHANION:  The point on the side of the skull where the temporal line, or upper edge of the temporal fossa, crosses the coronal suture. 

STEPHANITE:  A sulphide of antimony and silver of an iron-black color and metallic luster; called also black silver, and brittle silver ore. 

STEPHANOTIS:  A genus of climbing asclepiadaceous shrubs, of Madagascar, Malaya, etc. They have fleshy or coriaceous opposite leaves, and large white waxy flowers in cymes.  2. A perfume said to be prepared from the flowers of Stephanotis floribunda. 

STEPLADDER:  A portable set of steps. 

STEPMOTHER:  The wife of one's father by a subsequent marriage. 

STEPPARENT:  Stepfather or stepmother. 

STEPPE:  One of the vast plains in Southeastern Europe and in Asia, generally elevated, and free from wood, analogous to many of the prairies in Western North America. See Savanna. Steppe murrain. (Far.) See Rinderpest. 

STEPPED:  Provided with a step or steps; having a series of offsets or parts resembling the steps of stairs; as, a stepped key. Stepped gear, a cogwheel of which the teeth cross the face in a series of steps. 

STEPPER:  One who, or that which, steps; as, a quick stepper.  STEPPING-STONE Step"ping-stone`, n.  1. A stone to raise the feet above the surface of water or mud in walking.  2. Fig.: A means of progress or advancement. These obstacles his genius had turned into stepping-stones. Macaulay. That men may rise on stepping-stones Of their dead selves to higher things. Tennyson. 

STEPSISTER:  A daughter of one's stepfather or stepmother by a former marriage. 

STEPSON:  A son of one's husband or wife by a former marriage. 

STEPSTONE:  A stone laid before a door as a stair to rise on in entering the house.  STEP-UP Step"-up`, a. (Elec.)  Transforming or converting a low-pressure current into one of high pressure; as, a step-up transformer.  -STER -ster. Etym: [OE. & AS. -estre, -istre.]  A suffix denoting the agent (originally a woman), especially a person who does something with skill or as an occupation; as in spinster (originally, a woman who spins), songster, baxter (= bakester), youngster.  Note: Brewing, baking, and weaving were formerly feminine labors, and consequently brewster, baxter, and webster meant, originally, the woman (not the man) who brews, bakes, or weaves. When men began to perform these duties the feminine appellations were retained. 

STERCOBILIN:  A coloring matter found in the fæces, a product of the alteration of the bile pigments in the intestinal canal, -- identical with hydrobilirubin. 

STERCOLIN:  Same as Serolin (b). 

STERCORACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to dung; partaking of the nature of, or containing, dung. 

STERCORANISM:  The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists. 

STERCORANIST:  A nickname formerly given to those who held, or were alleged to hold, that the consecrated elements in the eucharist undergo the process of digestion in the body of the recipient. 

STERCORARIAN:  A Stercoranist. 

STERCORARY:  A place, properly secured from the weather, for containing dung. 

STERCORATE:  Excrement; dung. [Obs.] 

STERCORATION:  Manuring with dung. [Obs.] Bacon. 

STERCORIANISM:  The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists. 

STERCORIN:  Same as Serolin (b). 

STERCORY:  Excrement; dung. [Obs.] 

STERCULIACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sterculiaceæ) of polypetalous exogenous plants, mostly tropical. The cacao (Theobroma Cacao) is the most useful plant of the order. 

STERE:  A unit of cubic measure in the metric system, being a cubic meter, or kiloliter, and equal to 35.3 cubic feet, or nearly 1 

STERE:  To stir. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STERE:  A rudder. See 5th Steer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STERE:  Helmsman. See 6th Steer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STERELMINTHA:  Same as Platyelminthes.  STEREO- Ste"re*o-. Etym: [Gr. stereo`s solid. See Stare to gaze.]  A combining form meaning solid, hard, firm, as in stereo- chemistry, stereography. 

STEREOBATE:  The lower part or basement of a building or pedestal; -- used loosely for several different forms of basement.  STEREO-CHEMIC; STEREO-CHEMICAL Ste`re*o-chem"ic, Ste`re*o-chem"ic*al, a. (Chem.)  Pertaining to, or illustrating, the hypothetical space relations of atoms in the molecule; as, a stereo-chemic formula.  STEREO-CHEMISTRY Ste`re*o-chem"is*try, n. Etym: [Stereo- + chemistry.] (Chem.)  Chemistry considered with reference to the space relations of atoms. 

STEREOCHROME:  Stereochromic picture. 

STEREOCHROMIC:  Pertaining to the art of stereochromy; produced by stereochromy.  -- Ste`re*o*chro"mic*al*ly, adv. 

STEREOCHROMY:  A style of painting on plastered walls or stone, in which the colors are rendered permanent by sprinklings of water, in which is mixed a proportion of soluble glass (a silicate of soda). 

STEREOELECTRIC:  Of or pertaining to the generation of electricity by means of solid bodies alone; as, a stereoelectric current is one obtained by means of solids, without any liquid. 

STEREOGRAM:  A diagram or picture which represents objects in such a way as to give the impression of relief or solidity; also, a stereograph. 

STEREOGRAPH:  Any picture, or pair of pictures, prepared for exhibition in the stereoscope. Stereographs are now commonly made by means of photography.  STEREOGRAPHIC; STEREOGRAPHICAL Ste`re*o*graph"ic, Ste`re*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stéréographique.]  Made or done according to the rules of stereography; delineated on a plane; as, a stereographic chart of the earth. Stereographic projection (Geom.), a method of representing the sphere in which the center of projection is taken in the surface of the sphere, and the plane upon which the projection is made is at right andles to the diameter passing through the center of projection. 

STEREOGRAPHICALLY:  In a stereographical manner; by delineation on a plane. 

STEREOGRAPHY:  The art of delineating the forms of solid bodies on a plane; a branch of solid geometry which shows the construction of all solids which are regularly defined.  Note: By cutting pieces of cardboard, or other suitable material, in the forms represented in the cut, folding them along the lines indicated, and joining their edges, the five regular solids may be formed. 

STEREOMETER:  Of or pertaining to stereometry; performed or obtained by stereometry.  -- Ste`re*o*met"ric*al*ly, adv. 

STEREOMETRY:  The art of measuring and computing the cubical contents of bodies and figures; -- distinguished from planimetry. 

STEREOMONOSCOPE:  An instrument with two lenses, by which an image of a single picture projected upon a screen of ground glass is made to present an appearance of relief, and may be viewed by several persons at once. 

STEREOPLASM:  The solid or insoluble portion of the cell protoplasm. See Hygroplasm. 

STEREOPTICON:  An instrument, consisting essentially of a magic lantern in which photographic pictures are used, by which the image of a landscape, or any object, may be thrown upon a screen in such a manner as to seem to stand out in relief, so as to form a striking and accurate representation of the object itself; also, a pair of magic lanterns for producing the effect of dissolving views. 

STEREOSCOPE:  An optical instrument for giving to pictures the appearance of solid forms, as seen in nature. It combines in one, through a bending of the rays of light, two pictures, taken for the purpose from points of view a little way apart. It is furnished with two eyeglasses, and by refraction or reflection the pictures are superimposed, so as to appear as one to the observer.  Note: In the reflecting stereoscope, the rays from the two pictures are turned into the proper direction for stereoscopic vision by two plane mirrors set at an angle with each other, and between the pictures. In the lenticular stereoscope, the form in general use, the eyeglasses are semilenses, or marginal portions of the same convex lenses, set with their edges toward each other, so that they deflect the rays coming from the picture so as to strike the eyes as if coming direct from an intermediate point, where the two pictures are seen apparently as one.  STEREOSCOPIC; STEREOSCOPICAL Ste`re*o*scop"ic, Ste`re*o*scop"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to the stereoscope; characteristic of, or adapted to, the stereoscope; as, a stereoscopic effect; the stereoscopic function of the eyeglasses; stereoscopic views.  -- Ste`re*o*scop"ic*al*ly, adv. 

STEREOSCOPIST:  One skilled in the use or construction of stereoscopes. 

STEREOSCOPY:  The art or science of using the stereoscope, or of constructing the instrument or the views used with it. 

STEREOSTATIC:  Geostatic.  STEREOTOMIC; STEREOTOMICAL Ste`re*o*tom"ic, Ste`re*o*tom"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to stereotomy; performed by stereotomy. 

STEREOTOMY:  The science or art of cutting solids into certain figures or sections, as arches, and the like; especially, the art of stonecutting. 

STEREOTYPER:  One who stereotypes; one who makes stereotype plates, or works in a stereotype foundry. 

STEREOTYPIC:  Of or pertaining to stereotype, or stereotype plates. 

STEREOTYPIST:  A stereotyper. 

STEREOTYPOGRAPHER:  A stereotype printer. 

STEREOTYPOGRAPHY:  The act or art of printing from stereotype plates. 

STEREOTYPY:  The art or process of making stereotype plates. 

STERHYDRAULIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a kind of hydraulic press; resembling such a press in action or principle. Sterhydraulic press, an hydraulic press producing pressure or motion by the introduction of a solid substance (as a long rod, or a cord wound on a roller) into a cylinder previously filled with a liquid. 

STERILITY:  Quality of being sterile; infecundity; also, the state of being free from germs or spores. 

STERILIZATION:  The act or process of sterilizing, or rendering sterile; also, the state of being sterile. 

STERILIZER:  One that sterilizes anything; specif., an apparatus for sterilizing an organic fluid or mixture. 

STERLET:  A small sturgeon (Acipenser ruthenus) found in the Caspian Sea and its rivers, and highly esteemed for its flavor. The finest caviare is made from its roe. 

STERLING:  Same as Starling, 3. 

STERN:  The black tern. 

STERN:  Having a certain hardness or severity of nature, manner, or aspect; hard; severe; rigid; rigorous; austere; fixed; unchanging; unrelenting; hence, serious; resolute; harsh; as, a sternresolve; a stern necessity; a stern heart; a stern gaze; a stern decree. The sterne wind so loud gan to rout. Chaucer. I would outstare the sternest eyes that look. Shak. When that the poor have cried, Cæsar hath wept; Ambition should be made of sterner stuff. Shak. Stern as tutors, and as uncles hard. Dryden. These barren rocks, your stern inheritance. Wordsworth.  Syn.  -- Gloomy; sullen; forbidding; strict; unkind; hard-hearted; unfeeling; cruel; pitiless. 

STERN:  The after or rear end of a ship or other vessel, or of a boat; the part opposite to the stem, or prow.  3. Fig.: The post of management or direction. And sit chiefest stern of public weal. Shak.  4. The hinder part of anything. Spenser.  5. The tail of an animal; -- now used only of the tail of a dog. By the stern. (Naut.) See By the head, under By. 

STERN:  Being in the stern, or being astern; as, the stern davits. Stern board (Naut.), a going or falling astern; a loss of way in making a tack; as, to make a stern board. See Board, n., 8 (b).  -- Stern chase. (Naut.) (a) See under Chase, n. (b) A stern chaser.  -- Stern chaser (Naut.), a cannon placed in a ship's stern, pointing backward, and intended to annoy a ship that is in pursuit.  -- Stern fast (Naut.), a rope used to confine the stern of a ship or other vessel, as to a wharf or buoy.  -- Stern frame (Naut.), the framework of timber forms the stern of a ship.  -- Stern knee. See Sternson.  -- Stern port (Naut.), a port, or opening, in the stern of a ship.  -- Stern sheets (Naut.), that part of an open boat which is between the stern and the aftmost seat of the rowers, -- usually furnished with seats for passengers.  -- Stern wheel, a paddle wheel attached to the stern of the steamboat which it propels.stern wheeler. 

STERNAGE:  Stern. [R.] Shak. 

STERNAL:  Of or pertaining to the sternum; in the region of the sternum. Sternal ribs. See the Note under Rib, n., 1. 

STERNBERGITE:  A sulphide of silver and iron, occurring in soft flexible laminæ varying in color from brown to black. 

STERNEBRA:  One of the segments of the sternum.  -- Ster"ne*bral, a. 

STERNED:  Having a stern of a particular shape; -- used in composition; as, square-sterned. 

STERNER:  A director. [Obs. & R.] Dr. R. Clerke. 

STERNFOREMOST:  With the stern, instead of the bow, in advance; hence, figuratively, in an awkward, blundering manner. A fatal genius for going sternforemost. Lowell. 

STERNITE:  The sternum of an arthropod somite. 

STERNLY:  In a stern manner. 

STERNMOST:  Farthest in the rear; farthest astern; as, the sternmost ship in a convoy. 

STERNNESS:  The quality or state of being stern.  STERNO- Ster"no-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the sternum; as, sternocostal, sternoscapular. 

STERNOCORACOID:  Of or pertaining to the sternum and the coracoid. 

STERNOCOSTAL:  Of or pertaining to the sternum and the ribs; as, the sternocostal cartilages. 

STERNOHYOID:  Of or pertaining to the sternum and the hyoid bone or cartilage. 

STERNOMASTOID:  Of or pertaining to the sternum and the mastoid process. 

STERNOTHYROID:  Of or pertaining to the sternum and the thyroid cartilage. 

STERNPOST:  A straight piece of timber, or an iron bar or beam, erected on the extremity of the keel to support the rudder, and receive the ends of the planks or plates of the vessel. 

STERNSMAN:  A steersman. [Obs.] 

STERNSON:  The end of a ship's keelson, to which the sternpost is bolted; -- called also stern knee. 

STERNUM:  A plate of cartilage, or a series of bony or cartilaginous plates or segments, in the median line of the pectoral skeleton of most vertebrates above fishes; the breastbone.  Note: The sternum is connected with the ribs or the pectorial girdle, or with both. In man it is a flat bone, broad anteriorly, narrowed behind, and connected with the clavicles and the cartilages of the seven anterior pairs of ribs. In most birds it has a high median keel for the attachment of the muscles of the wings.  2. (Zoöl.)  The ventral part of any one of the somites of an arthropod. 

STERNUTATION:  The act of sneezing. Quincy. 

STERNUTATIVE:  Having the quality of provoking to sneeze. 

STERNUTATORY:  Sternutative.  -- n.  A sternutatory substance or medicine. 

STERNWAY:  The movement of a ship backward, or with her stern foremost.  STERN-WHEEL Stern"-wheel`, a.  Having a paddle wheel at the stern; as, a stern-wheel steamer.  STERN-WHEELER Stern"-wheel`er, n.  A steamboat having a stern wheel instead of side wheels. [Colloq. U.S.] 

STERQUILINOUS:  Pertaining to a dunghill; hence, mean; dirty; paltry. [Obs.] Howell. 

STERRE:  A star. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STERRINK:  The crab-eating seal (Lobodon carcinophaga) of the Antarctic Ocean. 

STERROMETAL:  Any alloy of copper, zinc, tin, and iron, of which cannon are sometimes made. 

STERT:  Started. Chaucer. 

STERTE:  p. p. of Start. Chaucer. 

STERTORIOUS:  Stertorous. [R.] 

STERTOROUS:  Characterized by a deep snoring, which accompaines inspiration in some diseases, especially apoplexy; hence, hoarsely breathing; snoring. Burning, stertorous breath that hurt her cheek. Mrs. Browning. The day has ebbed away, and it is night in his room, before his stertorous breathing lulls. Dickens. 

STERVE:  To die, or cause to die; to perish. See Starve. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

STET:  Let it stand; -- a word used by proof readers to signify that something once erased, or marked for omission, is to remain. 

STET:  To cause or direct to remain after having been marked for omission; to mark with the word stet, or with a series of dots below or beside the matter; as, the proof reader stetted a deled footnote. 

STETHAL:  One of the higher alcohols of the methane series, homologous with ethal, and found in small quantities as an ethereal salt of stearic acid in spermaceti. 

STETHOGRAPH:  See Pneumatograph. 

STETHOMETER:  An apparatus for measuring the external movements of a given point of the chest wall, during respiration; -- also called thoracometer. 

STETHOSCOPE:  An instrument used in auscultation for examining the organs of the chest, as the heart and lungs, by conveying to the ear of the examiner the sounds produced in the thorax. 

STETHOSCOPE:  To auscultate, or examine, with a stethoscope. M. W. Savage.  STETHOSCOPIC; STETHOSCOPICAL Steth`o*scop"ic, Steth`o*scop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stéthoscopique.]  Of or pertaining to a stethoscope; obtained or made by means of a stethoscope.  -- Steth`o*scop"ic*al*ly, adv. 

STETHOSCOPIST:  One skilled in the use of the stethoscope. 

STETHOSCOPY:  The art or process of examination by the stethoscope. 

STEVE:  To pack or stow, as cargo in a ship's hold. See Steeve. 

STEVEDORE:  One whose occupation is to load and unload vessels in port; one who stows a cargo in a hold. 

STEW:  To boil slowly, or with the simmering or moderate heat; to seethe; to cook in a little liquid, over a gentle fire, without boiling; as, to stew meat; to stew oysters; to stew apples. 

STEW:  To be seethed or cooked in a slow, gentle manner, or in heat and moisture. 

STEWARD:  To manage as a steward. [Obs.] 

STEWARDESS:  A female steward; specifically, a woman employed in passenger vessels to attend to the wants of female passengers. 

STEWARDLY:  In a manner, or with the care, of a steward. [R.] To be stewardly dispensed, not wastefully spent. Tooker. 

STEWARDSHIP:  The office of a steward. Shak. 

STEWISH:  Suiting a stew, or brothel. Bp. Hall. 

STEWPAN:  A pan used for stewing. 

STEWPOT:  A pot used for stewing. 

STEY:  See Stee. 

STHENIC:  Strong; active; -- said especially of morbid states attended with excessive action of the heart and blood vessels, and characterized by strength and activity of the muscular and nervous system; as, a sthenic fever. Sthenic theory. See Stimulism (a). 

STIACCIATO:  The lowest relief, -- often used in Italian sculpture of the 15th and 16th centuries. 

STIAN:  A sty on the eye. See Styan. 

STIBBORN:  Stubborn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STIBIAL:  Like, or having the qualities of, antimony; antimonial. 

STIBIALISM:  Antimonial intoxication or poisoning. Dunglison. 

STIBIATED:  Combined or impregnated with antimony (stibium). Stibiated tartar. See Tartar emetic, under Tartar. 

STIBIC:  Antimonic; -- used with reference to certain compounds of antimony. 

STIBICONITE:  A native oxide of antimony occurring in masses of a yellow color. 

STIBINE:  Antimony hydride, or hydrogen antimonide, a colorless gas produced by the action of nascent hydrogen on antimony. It has a characteristic odor and burns with a characteristic greenish flame. Formerly called also antimoniureted hydrogen. 

STIBIOUS:  Antimonious. [R.] 

STIBIUM:  The technical name of antimony.  2. (Min.)  Stibnite. [Obs.] 

STIBNITE:  A mineral of a lead-gray color and brilliant metallic luster, occurring in prismatic crystals; sulphide of antimony; -- called also antimony glance, and gray antimony. 

STIBONIUM:  The hypothetical radical SbH4, analogous to ammonium; -- called also antimonium. 

STICCADO:  An instrument consisting of small bars of wood, flat at the bottom and rounded at the top, and resting on the edges of a kind of open box. They are unequal in size, gradually increasing from the smallest to the largest, and are tuned to the diatonic scale. The tones are produced by striking the pieces of wood with hard balls attached to flexible sticks. 

STICHIC:  Of or pertaining to stichs, or lines; consisting of stichs, or lines. [R.] 

STICHIDIUM:  A special podlike or fusiform branch containing tetraspores. It is found in certain red algæ. 

STICHOMANCY:  Divination by lines, or passages of books, taken at hazard. 

STICHOMETRICAL:  Of or pertaining to stichometry; characterized by stichs, or lines. 

STICHWORT:  A kind of chickweed (Stellaria Holostea). [Written also stitchwort.] 

STICK:  A composing stick. See under Composing. It is usually a frame of metal, but for posters, handbills, etc., one made of wood is used.  6. A thrust with a pointed instrument; a stab. A stick of eels, twenty-five eels. [Prov. Eng.] -- Stick chimney, a chimney made of sticks laid crosswise, and cemented with clay or mud, as in some log houses. [U.S.] -- Stick insect, (Zoöl.), any one of various species of wingless orthopterous insects of the family Phasmidæ, which have a long round body, resembling a stick in form and color, and long legs, which are often held rigidly in such positions as to make them resemble small twigs. They thus imitate the branches and twigs of the trees on which they live. The common American species is Diapheromera femorata. Some of the Asiatic species are more than a foot long.  -- To cut one's stick, or To cut stick, to run away. [Slang] De Quincey. 

STICK:  To compose; to set, or arrange, in a composing stick; as, to stick type. [Cant]  9. (Joinery)  To run or plane (moldings) in a machine, in contradistinction to working them by hand. Such moldings are said to be stuck.  10. To cause to stick; to bring to a stand; to pose; to puzzle; as, to stick one with a hard problem. [Colloq.]  11. To impose upon; to compel to pay; sometimes, to cheat. [Slang] To stick out, to cause to project or protrude; to render prominent. 

STICKED:  Stuck. And in the sand her ship sticked so fast. Chaucer. They sticked not to give their bodies to be burnt. Sir T. Browne. 

STICKER:  In the organ, a small wooden rod which connects (in part) a key and a pallet, so as to communicate motion by pushing.  4. Same as Paster, 2. [Political Cant, U.S.] 

STICKFUL:  As much set type as fills a composing stick. 

STICKINESS:  The quality of being sticky; as, the stickiness of glue or paste. 

STICKING:  a. & n. from Stick, v. Sticking piece, a piece of beef cut from the neck. [Eng.] -- Sticking place, the place where a thing sticks, or remains fast; sticking point. But screw your courage to the sticking place, And we'll not fail. Shak. -- Sticking plaster, an adhesive plaster for closing wounds, and for similar uses.  -- Sticking point. Same as Sticking place, above. 

STICKIT:  Stuck; spoiled in making. [Scot.] Stickit minister, a candidate for the clerical office who fails, disqualified by incompetency or immorality.  STICK-LAC Stick"-lac`, n.  See the Note under Lac. 

STICKLE:  A shallow rapid in a river; also, the current below a waterfall. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Patient anglers, standing all the day Near to some shallow stickle or deep bay. W. Browne. 

STICKLEBACK:  Any one of numerous species of small fishes of the genus Gasterosteus and allied genera. The back is armed with two or more sharp spines. They inhabit both salt and brackish water, and construct curious nests. Called also sticklebag, sharpling, and prickleback. 

STICKLER:  One who stickles. Specifically: -- (a) One who arbitrates a duel; a sidesman to a fencer; a second; an umpire. [Obs.] Basilius, the judge, appointed sticklers and trumpets whom the others should obey. Sir P. Sidney. Our former chiefs, like sticklers of the war, First sought to inflame the parties, then to poise. Dryden.  (b) One who pertinaciously contends for some trifling things, as a point of etiquette; an unreasonable, obstinate contender; as, a stickler for ceremony. The Tory or High-church were the greatest sticklers against the exorbitant proceedings of King James II. Swift.  STICK-SEED Stick"-seed`, n. (Bot.)  A plant (Echinospermum Lappula) of the Borage family, with small blue flowers and prickly nutlets. 

STICKTAIL:  The ruddy duck. [Local, U.S.]  STICK-TIGHT Stick"-tight`, n. (Bot.)  Beggar's ticks. 

STICKY:  Having the quality of sticking to a surface; adhesive; gluey; viscous; viscid; glutinous; tenacious. Herbs which last longest are those of strong smell, and with a sticky stalk. Bacon. 

STIDDY:  An anvil; also, a smith shop. See Stithy. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

STIFF:  Bearing a press of canvas without careening much; as, a stiff vessel; -- opposed to crank. Totten.  8. Very large, strong, or costly; powerful; as, a stiff charge; a stiff price. [Slang] Stiff neck, a condition of the neck such that the head can not be moved without difficulty and pain.  Syn.  -- Rigid; inflexible; strong; hardly; stubborn; obstinate; pertinacious; harsh; formal; constrained; affected; starched; rigorous.  STIFF-BACKED Stiff"-backed`, a.  Obstinate. J. H. Newman. 

STIFFEN:  To become stiff or stiffer, in any sense of the adjective. Like bristles rose my stiffening hair. Dryden. The tender soil then stiffening by degrees. Dryden. Some souls we see, Grow hard and stiffen with adversity. Dryden. 

STIFFENER:  One who, or that which, stiffens anything, as a piece of stiff cloth in a cravat. 

STIFFENING:  Obstinate; stubborn; contumacious. Ezek. ii. 4. 

STIFFISH:  Somewhat stiff. 

STIFFLY:  In a stiff manner.  STIFF-NECKED Stiff"-necked`, a.  Stubborn; inflexibly obstinate; contumacious; as, stiff-necked pride; a stiff-necked people. Ex. xxxii. 9.  STIFF-NECKEDNESS Stiff"-neck`ed*ness, n.  The quality or state of being stiff-necked; stubbornness. 

STIFFNESS:  The quality or state of being stiff; as, the stiffness of cloth or of paste; stiffness of manner; stiffness of character. The vices of old age have the stiffness of it too. South. 

STIFFTAIL:  The ruddy duck. [Local, U.S.]  STIFF-TAILED Stiff"-tailed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the quill feathers of the tail somewhat rigid. 

STIFLE:  The joint next above the hock, and near the flank, in the hind leg of the horse and allied animals; the joint corresponding to the knee in man; -- called also stifle joint. See Illust. under Horse. Stifle bone, a small bone at the stifle joint; the patella, or kneepan. 

STIFLE:  To die by reason of obstruction of the breath, or because some noxious substance prevents respiration. You shall stifle in your own report. Shak. 

STIFLED:  Stifling. The close and stifled study. Hawthorne. 

STIFLER:  See Camouflet. 

STIGMA:  That part of a pistil which has no epidermis, and is fitted to receive the pollen. It is usually the terminal portion, and is commonly somewhat glutinous or viscid. See Illust. of Stamen and of Flower.  4. (Anat.)  A small spot, mark, scar, or a minute hole; -- applied especially to a spot on the outer surface of a Graafian follicle, and to spots of intercellular substance in scaly epithelium, or to minute holes in such spots.  5. (Pathol.)  A red speck upon the skin, produced either by the extravasation of blood, as in the bloody sweat characteristic of certain varieties of religious ecstasy, or by capillary congestion, as in the case of drunkards.  6. (Zoöl.) (a) One of the external openings of the tracheæ of insects, myriapods, and other arthropods; a spiracle. (b) One of the apertures of the pulmonary sacs of arachnids. See Illust. of Scorpion. (c) One of the apertures of the gill of an ascidian, and of Amphioxus.  7. (Geom.)  A point so connected by any law whatever with another point, called an index, that as the index moves in any manner in a plane the first point or stigma moves in a determinate way in the same plane.  8. pl. (R. C. Ch.)  Marks believed to have been supernaturally impressed upon the bodies of certain persons in imitation of the wounds on the crucified body of Christ. See def. 5, above. 

STIGMARIA:  The fossil root stem of a coal plant of the genus Sigillaria. 

STIGMATA:  pl. of Stigma. 

STIGMATIC:  Of or pertaining to a stigma or stigmata. Stigmatic geometry, or Stigmatics, that science in which the correspondence of index and stigma (see Stigma, 7) is made use of to establish geometrical proportions. 

STIGMATICALLY:  With a stigma, or mark of infamy or deformity. 

STIGMATIST:  One believed to be supernaturally impressed with the marks of Christ's wounds. See Stigma, 8. 

STIGMATIZATION:  The production of stigmata upon the body. See Stigma, 8. 

STIGMATOSE:  Same as Stigmatic. 

STIGONOMANCY:  Divination by writing on the bark of a tree. 

STIKE:  Stanza. [Obs.] Sackville. 

STILAR:  Of or pertaining to the style of a dial. [Written also stylar.] 

STILBENE:  A hydrocarbon, C14H12, produced artificially in large, fine crystals; -- called also diphenyl ethylene, toluylene, etc. 

STILBITE:  A common mineral of the zeolite family, a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime, usually occurring in sheaflike aggregations of crystals, also in radiated masses. It is of a white or yellowish color, with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. Called also desmine. 

STILE:  One of the upright pieces in a frame; one of the primary members of a frame, into which the secondary members are mortised.  Note: In an ordinary door the principal upright pieces are called stiles, the subordinate upright pieces mullions, and the crosspieces rails. In wainscoting the principal pieces are sometimes called stiles, even when horizontal. Hanging stile, Pulley stile. See under Hanging, and Pulley. 

STILET:  See Stylet, 2. 

STILETTO:  To stab or kill with a stiletto. Bacon. 

STILL:  To drop, or flow in drops; to distill. [Obs.] Spenser. 

STILLAGE:  A low stool to keep the goods from touching the floor. Knight. 

STILLATITIOUS:  Falling in drops; drawn by a still. 

STILLBIRTH:  The birth of a dead fetus. 

STILLBORN:  To burn in the process of distillation; as, to still-burn brandy.  STILL-CLOSING Still"-clos"ing, a.  Ever closing. [Obs.] "Still-clothing waters." Shak. 

STILLER:  One who stills, or quiets. 

STILLHOUSE:  A house in which distillation is carried on; a distillery.  STILL-HUNT Still"-hunt`, n.  A hunting for game in a quiet and cautious manner, or under cover; stalking; hence, colloquially, the pursuit of any object quietly and cautiously.  -- Still"-hunt`er, n.  -- Still"-hunt`ing, n. [U.S.] 

STILLICIDE:  A continual falling or succession of drops; rain water falling from the eaves. Bacon. 

STILLICIDIOUS:  Falling in drops. [Obs.] 

STILLIFORM:  Having the form of a drop. Owen. 

STILLING:  A stillion. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

STILLION:  A stand, as for casks or vats in a brewery, or for pottery while drying. 

STILLROOM:  A pipe wrench having an adjustable L-shaped jaw piece sliding in a sleeve that is pivoted to, and loosely embraces, the handle. Pressure on the handle increases the grip. 

STILLSTAND:  A standstill. [R.] Shak. 

STILLY:  Still; quiet; calm. The stilly hour when storms are gone. Moore. 

STILLY:  In a still manner; quietly; silently; softly. Dr. H. More. The hum of either army stilly sounds. Shak. 

STILPNOMELANE:  A black or greenish black mineral occurring in foliated flates, also in velvety bronze-colored incrustations. It is a hydrous silicate of iron and alumina. 

STILT:  Any species of limicoline birds belonging to Himantopus and allied genera, in which the legs are remarkably long and slender. Called also longshanks, stiltbird, stilt plover, and lawyer.  Note: The American species (Himantopus Mexicanus) is well known. The European and Asiatic stilt (H. candidus) is usually white, except the wings and interscapulars, which are greenish black. The white-headed stilt (H. leucocephalus) and the banded stilt (Cladorhynchus pectoralis) are found in Australia. Stilt plover (Zoöl.), the stilt.  -- Stilt sandpiper (Zoöl.), an American sandpiper (Micropalama himantopus) having long legs. The bill is somewhat expanded at the tip. 

STILT:  To raise on stilts, or as if on stilts. 

STILTBIRD:  See Stilt, n., 3. 

STILTED:  Elevated as if on stilts; hence, pompous; bombastic; as, a stilted style; stilted declamation. Stilted arch (Arch.), an arch in which the springing line is some distance above the impost, the space between being occupied by a vertical member, molded or ornamented, as a continuation of the archivolt, intrados, etc. 

STILTIFY:  To raise upon stilts, or as upon stilts; to stilt.  STILTON CHEESE; STILTON Stil"ton cheese", or Stil"ton, n.  A peculiarly flavored unpressed cheese made from milk with cream added; -- so called from the village or parish of Stilton, England, where it was originally made. It is very rich in fat.  Thus, in the outset he was gastronomic; discussed the dinner from the soup to the stilton. C. Lever. 

STILTY:  Unreasonably elevated; pompous; stilted; as, a stilty style. 

STIME:  A slight gleam or glimmer; a glimpse. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  STIMEY; STIMIE Sti"mey, Sti"mie, n. & v. t.  See Stymie. 

STIMULANT:  Produced increased vital action in the organism, or in any of its parts. 

STIMULANT:  An agent which produces a temporary increase of vital activity in the organism, or in any of its parts; -- sometimes used without qualification to signify an alcoholic beverage used as a stimulant. 

STIMULATE:  To excite; to irritate; especially, to excite the activity of (a nerve or an irritable muscle), as by electricity.  Syn.  -- To animate; incite; encourage; impel; urge; instigate; irritate; exasperate; incense. 

STIMULATION:  The irritating action of various agents (stimuli) on muscles, nerves, or a sensory end organ, by which activity is evoked; especially, the nervous impulse produced by various agents on nerves, or a sensory end organ, by which the part connected with the nerve is thrown into a state of activity; irritation. 

STIMULATIVE:  Having the quality of stimulating.  -- n.  That which stimulates. 

STIMULATOR:  One who stimulates. 

STIMULATRESS:  A woman who stimulates. 

STING:  Any sharp organ of offense and defense, especially when connected with a poison gland, and adapted to inflict a wound by piercing; as the caudal sting of a scorpion. The sting of a bee or wasp is a modified ovipositor. The caudal sting, or spine, of a sting ray is a modified dorsal fin ray. The term is sometimes applied to the fang of a serpent. See Illust. of Scorpion.  2. (Bot.)  A sharp-pointed hollow hair seated on a gland which secrets an acrid fluid, as in nettles. The points of these hairs usually break off in the wound, and the acrid fluid is pressed into it.  3. Anything that gives acute pain, bodily or mental; as, the stings of remorse; the stings of reproach. The sting of death is sin. 1 Cor. xv. 56.  4. The thrust of a sting into the flesh; the act of stinging; a wound inflicted by stinging. "The lurking serpent's mortal sting." Shak.  5. A goad; incitement. Shak.  6. The point of an epigram or other sarcastic saying. Sting moth (Zoöl.), an Australian moth (Doratifera vulnerans) whose larva is armed, at each end of the body, with four tubercles bearing powerful stinging organs.  -- Sting ray. (Zoöl.) See under 6th Ray.  -- Sting winkle (Zoöl.), a spinose marine univalve shell of the genus Murex, as the European species (Murex erinaceus). See Illust. of Murex. 

STINGAREE:  Any sting ray. See under 6th Ray. 

STINGBULL:  The European greater weever fish (Trachinus draco), which is capable of inflicting severe wounds with the spinous rays of its dorsal fin. See Weever. 

STINGER:  One who, or that which, stings. Professor E. Forbes states that only a small minority of the medusæ of our seas are stingers. Owen. 

STINGFISH:  The weever. 

STINGILY:  In a stingy manner. 

STINGINESS:  The quality or state of being stingy. 

STINGING:  Piercing, or capable of piercing, with a sting; inflicting acute pain as if with a sting, goad, or pointed weapon; pungent; biting; as, stinging cold; a stinging rebuke.  -- Sting"ing*ly, adv. Stinging cell. (Zoöl.) Same as Lasso cell, under Lasso. 

STINGLESS:  Having no sting. 

STINGO:  Old beer; sharp or strong liquor. [Old Slang] Shall I set a cup of old stingo at your elbow Addison.  STING RAY; STINGRAY Sting ray or Sting"ray`, n.  Any one of numerous rays of the family Dasyatidæ, syn. Trygonidæ, having one or more large sharp barbed dorsal spines, on the whiplike tail, capable of inflicting severe wounds. Some species reach a large size, and some, esp., on the American Pacific coast, are very destructive to oysters. 

STINGTAIL:  A sting ray. 

STINGY:  Stinging; able to sting. 

STINGY:  Extremely close and covetous; meanly avaricious; niggardly; miserly; penurious; as, a stingy churl. A stingy, narrow-hearted fellow that had a deal of choice fruit, had not the heart to touch it till it began to be rotten. L'estrange. 

STINK:  To emit a strong, offensive smell; to send out a disgusting odor. 

STINK:  To cause to stink; to affect by a stink. 

STINK:  A strong, offensive smell; a disgusting odor; a stench. Fire stink. See under Fire.  -- Stink-fire lance. See under Lance.  -- Stink rat (Zoöl.), the musk turtle. [Local, U.S.] -- Stink shad (Zoöl.), the gizzard shad. [Local, U.S.] Stink trap, a stench trap. See under Stench. 

STINKARD:  The teledu of the East Indies. It emits a disagreeable odor. 

STINKBALL:  A composition of substances which in combustion emit a suffocating odor; -- used formerly in naval warfare. 

STINKER:  Any one of the several species of large antarctic petrels which feed on blubber and carrion and have an offensive odor, as the giant fulmar. 

STINKHORN:  A kind of fungus of the genus Phallus, which emits a fetid odor. 

STINKING:  from Stink, v. Stinking badger (Zoöl.), the teledu.  -- Stinking cedar (Bot.), the California nutmeg tree; also, a related tree of Florida (Torreya taxifolia). 

STINKINGLY:  In a stinking manner; with an offensive smell. 

STINKPOT:  The musk turtle, or musk tortoise. See under Musk. 

STINKSTONE:  One of the varieties of calcite, barite, and feldspar, which emit a fetid odor on being struck; -- called also swinestone. 

STINKWEED:  Stramonium. See Jamestown weed, and Datura. 

STINKWOOD:  A name given to several kinds of wood with an unpleasant smell, as that of the Foetidia Mauritiana of the Mauritius, and that of the South African Ocotea bullata. 

STINT:  To stop; to cease. [Archaic] They can not stint till no thing be left. Chaucer. And stint thou too, I pray thee. Shak. The damsel stinted in her song. Sir W. Scott. 

STINTANCE:  Restraint; stoppage. [Obs.] 

STINTEDNESS:  The state of being stinted. 

STINTER:  One who, or that which, stints. 

STINTLESS:  Without stint or restraint. The stintlesstears of old Heraclitus. Marston. 

STIPEL:  The stipule of a leaflet. Gray. 

STIPELLATE:  Having stipels. 

STIPEND:  Settled pay or compensation for services, whether paid daily, monthly, or annually. 

STIPEND:  To pay by settled wages. [R.] 

STIPENDIARIAN:  Acting from mercenary considerations; stipendiary. A. Seward. 

STIPENDIARY:  Receiving wages, or salary; performing services for a stated price or compensation. His great stipendiary prelates came with troops of evil-appointed horseman not half full. Knolles. 

STIPENDIARY:  One who receives a stipend. If thou art become A tyrant's vile stipendiary. Glover. 

STIPENDIATE:  To provide with a stipend, or salary; to support; to pay. Evelyn. It is good to endow colleges, and to found chairs, and to stipendiate professors. I. Taylor. 

STIPENDLESS:  Having no stipend. 

STIPITATE:  Supported by a stipe; elevated on a stipe, as the fronds of most ferns, or the pod of certain cruciferous plants. 

STIPITIFORM:  Having the shape of a stalk; stalklike. 

STIPPLE:  A mode of execution which produces the effect by dots or small points instead of lines.  2. (Paint.)  A mode of execution in which a flat or even tint is produced by many small touches. 

STIPTIC:  See Styptic. 

STIPULA:  A stipule.  2. (Zoöl.)  A newly sprouted feather.  STIPULACEOUS; STIPULAR Stip`u*la"ceous, Stip"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stipulacé, stipulaire. See Stipula.] (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to stipules; resembling stipules; furnished with stipules; growing on stipules, or close to them; occupying the position of stipules; as, stipular glands and stipular tendrils. 

STIPULARY:  Of or pertaining to stipules; stipular. 

STIPULATE:  Furnished with stipules; as, a stipulate leaf. 

STIPULATE:  To make an agreement or covenant with any person or company to do or forbear anything; to bargain; to contract; to settle terms; as, certain princes stipulated to assist each other in resisting the armies of France. 

STIPULATION:  A material article of an agreement; an undertaking in the nature of bail taken in the admiralty courts; a bargain. Bouvier. Wharton.  Syn.  -- Agreement; contract; engagement. See Covenant. 

STIPULATION:  The situation, arrangement, and structure of the stipules. 

STIPULATOR:  One who stipulates, contracts, or covenants. 

STIPULE:  An appendage at the base of petioles or leaves, usually somewhat resembling a small leaf in texture and appearance. 

STIPULED:  Furnished with stipules, or leafy appendages. 

STIRABOUT:  A dish formed of oatmeal boiled in water to a certain consistency and frequently stirred, or of oatmeal and dripping mixed together and stirred about in a pan; a hasty pudding. 

STIRIATED:  Adorned with pendants like icicles. 

STIRIOUS:  Resembling icicles. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

STIRK:  A young bullock or heifer. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

STIRLESS:  Without stirring; very quiet; motionless. "Lying helpless and stirless." Hare. 

STIRP:  Stock; race; family. [Obs.] Bacon. 

STIRPICULTURE:  The breeding of special stocks or races. 

STIRPS:  Stock; race; family. Blackstone.  2. (Bot.)  A race, or a fixed and permanent variety. 

STIRRAGE:  The act of stirring; stir; commotion. [Obs.] T. Granger. 

STIRRER:  One who, or that which, stirs something; also, one who moves about, especially after sleep; as, an early stirrer. Shak. Stirrer up, an instigator or inciter. Atterbury. 

STIRRING:  Putting in motion, or being in motion; active; active in business; habitually employed in some kind of business; accustomed to a busy life. A more stirring and intellectual age than any which had gone before it. Southey.  Syn.  -- Animating; arousing; awakening; stimulating; quickening; exciting. 

STIRRUP:  Any piece resembling in shape the stirrup of a saddle, and used as a support, clamp, etc. See Bridle iron.  3. (Naut.)  A rope secured to a yard, with a thimble in its lower end for supporting a footrope. Totten. Stirrup bone (Anat.), the stapes.  -- Stirrup cup, a parting cup taken after mounting.  -- Stirrup iron, an iron stirrup.  -- Stirrup leather, or Stirrup strap, the strap which attaches a stirrup to the saddle. See Stirrup, 1. 

STIRT:  Started; leaped. They privily be stirt into a well. Chaucer. 

STIRTE:  imp. of Start, v. i. & t. Chaucer. 

STITCH:  A space of work taken up, or gone over, in a single pass of the needle; hence, by extension, any space passed over; distance. You have gone a good stitch. Bunyan. In Syria the husbandmen go lightly over with their plow, and take no deep stitch in making their furrows. Holland.  4. A local sharp pain; an acute pain, like the piercing of a needle; as, a stitch in the side. He was taken with a cold and with stitches, which was, indeed, a pleurisy. Bp. Burnet.  5. A contortion, or twist. [Obs.] If you talk, Or pull your face into a stitch again, I shall be angry. Marston.  6. Any least part of a fabric or dress; as, to wet every stitch of clothes. [Colloq.]  7. A furrow. Chapman. Chain stitch, Lock stitch. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Pearl, or Purl stitch. See 2nd Purl, 2. 

STITCH:  To form land into ridges. To stitch up, to mend or unite with a needle and thread; as, to stitch up a rent; to stitch up an artery. 

STITCH:  To practice stitching, or needlework. 

STITCHEL:  A kind of hairy wool. [Prov.] 

STITCHER:  One who stitches; a seamstress. 

STITCHERY:  Needlework; -- in comtempt. Shak. 

STITCHWORT:  See Stichwort. 

STITH:  Strong; stiff; rigid. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

STITH:  An anvil; a stithy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] He invented also pincers, hammers, iron crows, and the anvil, or stith. Holland. 

STITHY:  To forge on an anvil. The forge that stithied Mars his helm. Shak. 

STIVE:  To stuff; to crowd; to fill full; hence, to make hot and close; to render stifling. Sandys. His chamber was commonly stived with friends or suitors of one kind or other. Sir H. Wotton. 

STIVE:  To be stifled or suffocated. 

STIVE:  The floating dust in flour mills caused by the operation or grinding. De Colange. 

STIVER:  A Dutch coin, and money of account, of the value of two cents, or about one penny sterling; hence, figuratively, anything of little worth. 

STIVES:  Stews; a brothel. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STOAK:  To stop; to choke. 

STOAT:  The ermine in its summer pelage, when it is reddish brown, but with a black tip to the tail. The name is sometimes applied also to other brown weasels. 

STOCAH:  A menial attendant. [Obs.] Spenser. 

STOCCADE:  See Stockade. 

STOCCADO:  A stab; a thrust with a rapier. Shak. 

STOCHASTIC:  Conjectural; able to conjecture. [Obs.] Whitefoot. 

STOCK:  Same as Stock account, below.  9. Supply provided; store; accumulation; especially, a merchant's or manufacturer's store of goods; as, to lay in a stock of provisions. Add to that stock which justly we bestow. Dryden.  10. (Agric.)  Domestic animals or beasts collectively, used or raised on a farm; as, a stock of cattle or of sheep, etc.; -- called also live stock.  11. (Card Playing)  That portion of a pack of cards not distributed to the players at the beginning of certain games, as gleek, etc., but which might be drawn from afterward as occasion required; a bank. I must buy the stock; send me good cardings. Beau. & Fl.  12. A thrust with a rapier; a stoccado. [Obs.]  13. Etym: [Cf. Stocking.]  A covering for the leg, or leg and foot; as, upper stocks (breeches); nether stocks (stockings). [Obs.] With a linen stock on one leg. Shak.  14. A kind of stiff, wide band or cravat for the neck; as, a silk stock.  15. pl.  A frame of timber, with holes in which the feet, or the feet and hands, of criminals were formerly confined by way of punishment. He shall rest in my stocks. Piers Plowman.  16. pl. (Shipbuilding)  The frame or timbers on which a ship rests while building.  17. pl.  Red and gray bricks, used for the exterior of walls and the front of buildings. [Eng.]  18. (Bot.)  Any cruciferous plant of the genus Matthiola; as, common stock (Matthiola incana) (see Gilly-flower); ten-weeks stock (M. annua).  19. (Geol.)  An irregular metalliferous mass filling a large cavity in a rock formation, as a stock of lead ore deposited in limestone.  20. A race or variety in a species.  21. (Biol.)  In tectology, an aggregate or colony of persons (see Person), as trees, chains of salpæ, etc.  22. The beater of a fulling mill. Knight.  23. (Cookery)  A liquid or jelly containing the juices and soluble parts of meat, and certain vegetables, etc., extracted by cooking; -- used in making soup, gravy, etc. Bit stock. See Bitstock.  -- Dead stock (Agric.), the implements of husbandry, and produce stored up for use; -- in distinction from live stock, or the domestic animals on the farm. See def. 10, above.  -- Head stock. See Headstock.  -- Paper stock, rags and other material of which paper is made.  -- Stock account (Bookkeeping), an account on a merchant's ledger, one side of which shows the original capital, or stock, and the additions thereto by accumulation or contribution, the other side showing the amounts withdrawn.  -- Stock car, a railway car for carrying cattle.  -- Stock company (Com.), an incorporated company the capital of which is represented by marketable shares having a certain equal par value.  -- Stock duck (Zoöl.), the mallard.  -- Stock exchange. (a) The building or place where stocks are bought and sold; stock market; hence, transactions of all kinds in stocks. (b) An association or body of stockbrokers who meet and transact business by certain recognized forms, regulations, and usages. Wharton. Brande & C.  -- Stock farmer, a farmer who makes it his business to rear live stock.  -- Stock gillyflower (Bot.), the common stock. See Stock, n., 18.  -- Stock gold, gold laid up so as to form a stock, or hoard.  -- Stock in trade, the goods kept for sale by a shopkeeper; the fittings and appliances of a workman. Simmonds.  -- Stock list, a list of stocks, or shares, dealt in, of transactions, and of prices.  -- Stock lock, a lock inclosed in a wooden case and attached to the face of a door.  -- Stock market. (a) A place where stocks are bought and sold; the stock exchange. (b) A market for live stock.  -- Stock pigeon. (Zoöl.) Same as Stockdove.  -- Stock purse. (a) A common purse, as distinguished from a private purse. (b) (Mil.) Moneys saved out of the expenses of a company or regiment, and applied to objects of common interest. [Eng.] -- Stock shave, a tool used by blockmakers.  -- Stock station, a place or district for rearing stock. [Australia] W. Howitt.  -- Stock tackle (Naut.), a tackle used when the anchor is hoisted and secured, to keep its stock clear of the ship's sides. Totten.  -- Stock taking, an examination and inventory made of goods or stock in a shop or warehouse; -- usually made periodically.  -- Tail stock. See Tailstock.  -- To have something on the stock, to be at work at something.  -- To take stock, to take account of stock; to make an inventory of stock or goods on hand. Dickens.  -- To take stock in. (a) To subscribe for, or purchase, shares in a stock company. (b) To put faith in; to accept as trustworthy; as, to take stock in a person's fidelity. [Slang] -- To take stock of, to take account of the stock of; to take an inventory of; hence, to ascertain the facts in regard to (something). [Eng.] At the outset of any inquiry it is proper to take stock of the results obtained by previous explorers of the same field. Leslie Stephen.  Syn.  -- Fund; capital; store; supply; accumulation; hoard; provision. 

STOCK:  Used or employed for constant service or application, as if constituting a portion of a stock or supply; standard; permanent; standing; as, a stock actor; a stock play; a stock sermon. "A stock charge against Raleigh." C. Kingsley. Stock company (Theater), a company of actors regularly employed at one theater, or permanently acting together in various plays under one management. 

STOCKADE:  A line of stout posts or timbers set firmly in the earth in contact with each other (and usually with loopholes) to form a barrier, or defensive fortification. [Written also stoccade.]  2. An inclosure, or pen, made with posts and stakes. 

STOCKADE:  To surround, fortify, or protect with a stockade.  STOCK-BLIND Stock"-blind`, a.  Blind as a stock; wholly blind. 

STOCKBROKER:  A broker who deals in stocks. 

STOCKDOVE:  A common European wild pigeon (Columba ænas), so called because at one time believed to be the stock of the domestic pigeon, or, according to some, from its breeding in the stocks, or trunks, of trees.  Note: The name is applied, also, to other related species, as the Indian stockdove (Palumbæna Eversmanni). 

STOCKER:  One who makes or fits stocks, as of guns or gun carriages, etc. 

STOCKFISH:  Young fresh cod. 

STOCKHOLDER:  One who is a holder or proprietor of stock in the public funds, or in the funds of a bank or other stock company. 

STOCKINET:  An elastic textile fabric imitating knitting, of which stockings, under-garments, etc., are made. 

STOCKING:  A close-fitting covering for the foot and leg, usually knit or woven. Blue stocking. See Bluestocking.  -- Stocking frame, a machine for knitting stockings or other hosiery goods. 

STOCKING:  To dress in GBs. Dryden. 

STOCKINGER:  A stocking weaver. 

STOCKISH:  Like a stock; stupid; blockish. Since naught so stockish, hard, and full of rage, But music for the time doth change his nature. Shak. 

STOCKJOBBER:  One who speculates in stocks for gain; one whose occupation is to buy and sell stocks. In England a jobber acts as an intermediary between brokers. 

STOCKJOBBING:  The act or art of dealing in stocks; the business of a stockjobber. 

STOCKMAN:  A herdsman; a ranchman; one owning, or having charge of, herds of live stock. [Australia & U.S.] W. Howitt.  STOCK-STILL Stock"-still`, a. Etym: [CF. G. stock-still.]  Still as a stock, or fixed post; perfectly still. His whole work stands stock-still. Sterne. 

STOCKWORK:  A system of working in ore, etc., when it lies not in strata or veins, but in solid masses, so as to be worked in chambers or stories.  2. (Geol.)  A metalliferous deposit characterized by the impregnation of the mass of rock with many small veins or nests irregularly grouped. This kind of deposit is especially common with tin ore. Such deposits are worked in floors or stories. 

STODGY:  Wet. [Prov. Eng.] G. Eliot.  STOECHIOLOGY; STOECHIOMETRY Stoech`i*ol"o*gy, n., Stoech`i*om"e*try (, n., etc.  See Stoichiology, Stoichiometry, etc. 

STOGY:  heavy; coarse; clumsy. [Colloq.] 

STOICHIOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to stoichiology. 

STOICHIOLOGY:  The doctrine of the elementary requisites of mere thought. Sir W. Hamilton.  3. The statement or discussion of the first principles of any science or art.  STOICHIOMETRIC; STOICHIOMETRICAL Stoi`chi*o*met"ric, Stoi`chi*o*met"ric*al, a.  Of or pertaining to stoichiometry; employed in, or obtained by, stoichiometry. 

STOICHIOMETRY:  The art or process of calculating the atomic proportions, combining weights, and other numerical relations of chemical elements and their compounds. 

STOICITY:  Stoicism. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

STOKE:  To poke or stir up a fire; hence, to tend the fires of furnaces, steamers, etc. 

STOKEHOLD:  The space, or any of the spaces, in front of the boilers of a ship, from which the furnaces are fed; the stokehole of a ship; also, a room containing a ship's boilers; as, forced draft with  closed stokehold; -- called also, in American ships, fireroom. 

STOKEHOLE:  The mouth to the grate of a furnace; also, the space in front of the furnace, where the stokers stand. 

STOKEY:  Close; sultry. [Prov. Eng.] 

STOLA:  A long garment, descending to the ankles, worn by Roman women. The stola was not allowed to be worn by courtesans, or by women who had been divorced from their husbands. Fairholt. 

STOLE:  imp. of Steal. 

STOLE:  A stolon. 

STOLE:  A narrow band of silk or stuff, sometimes enriched with embroidery and jewels, worn on the left shoulder of deacons, and across both shoulders of bishops and priests, pendent on each side nearly to the ground. At Mass, it is worn crossed on the breast by priests. It is used in various sacred functions. Groom of the stole, the first lord of the bedchamber in the royal household. [Eng.] Brande & C. 

STOLED:  Having or wearing a stole. After them flew the prophets, brightly stoled In shining lawn. G. Fletcher. 

STOLEN:  p. p. of Steal. 

STOLID:  Hopelessly insensible or stupid; not easily aroused or excited; dull; impassive; foolish. 

STOLIDITY:  The state or quality of being stolid; dullness of intellect; obtuseness; stupidity. Indocile, intractable fools, whose stolidity can baffle all arguments, and be proof against demonstration itself. Bentley. 

STOLIDNESS:  Same as Stolidity. 

STOLON:  A trailing branch which is disposed to take root at the end or at the joints; a stole.  2. (Zoöl.)  An extension of the integument of the body, or of the body wall, from which buds are developed, giving rise to new zooids, and thus forming a compound animal in which the zooids usually remain united by the stolons. Such stolons are often present in Anthozoa, Hydroidea, Bryozoa, and social ascidians. See Illust. under Scyphistoma. 

STOLONIFEROUS:  Producing stolons; putting forth suckers. 

STOMA:  One of the minute apertures between the cells in many serous membranes.  2. (Bot.) (a) The minute breathing pores of leaves or other organs opening into the intercellular spaces, and usually bordered by two contractile cells. (b) The line of dehiscence of the sporangium of a fern. It is usually marked by two transversely elongated cells. See Illust. of Sporangium.  3. (Zoöl.)  A stigma. See Stigma, n., 6 (a) & (b). 

STOMACH:  An enlargement, or series of enlargements, in the anterior part of the alimentary canal, in which food is digested; any cavity in which digestion takes place in an animal; a digestive cavity. See Digestion, and Gastric juice, under Gastric.  2. The desire for food caused by hunger; appetite; as, a good stomach for roast beef. Shak.  3. Hence appetite in general; inclination; desire. He which hath no stomach to this fight, Let him depart. Shak.  4. Violence of temper; anger; sullenness; resentment; willful obstinacy; stubbornness. [Obs.] Stern was his look, and full of stomach vain. Spenser. This sort of crying proceeding from pride, obstinacy, and stomach, the will, where the fault lies, must be bent. Locke.  5. Pride; haughtiness; arrogance. [Obs.] He was a man Of an unbounded stomach. Shak. Stomach pump (Med.), a small pump or syringe with a flexible tube, for drawing liquids from the stomach, or for injecting them into it.  -- Stomach tube (Med.), a long flexible tube for introduction into the stomach.  -- Stomach worm (Zoöl.), the common roundworm (Ascaris lumbricoides) found in the human intestine, and rarely in the stomach. 

STOMACH:  To be angry. [Obs.] Hooker. 

STOMACHAL:  A stomachic. Dunglison. 

STOMACHER:  An ornamental covering for the breast, worn originally both by men and women. Those worn by women were often richly decorated. A stately lady in a diamond stomacher. Johnson. 

STOMACHFUL:  Willfully obstinate; stubborn; perverse. [Obs.] -- Stom"ach*ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Stom"ach*ful*ness, n. [Obs.]  STOMACHIC; STOMACHICAL Sto*mach"ic, Sto*mach"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. stomachicus, Gr. stomachique.]  1. Of or pertaining to the stomach; as, stomachic vessels.  2. Strengthening to the stomach; exciting the action of the stomach; stomachal; cordial. 

STOMACHIC:  A medicine that strengthens the stomach and excites its action. 

STOMACHING:  Resentment. [Obs.] 

STOMACHOUS:  Stout; sullen; obstinate. [Obs.] With stern looks and stomachous disdain. Spenser. 

STOMACHY:  Obstinate; sullen; haughty. A little, bold, solemn, stomachy man, a great professor of piety. R. L. Stevenson. 

STOMAPOD:  One of the Stomapoda. 

STOMAPODA:  An order of Crustacea including the squillas. The maxillipeds are leglike in form, and the large claws are comblike. They have a large and elongated abdomen, which contains a part of the stomach and heart; the abdominal appendages are large, and bear the gills. Called also Gastrula, Stomatopoda, and Squilloidea. 

STOMATE:  A stoma. 

STOMATIC:  Of or pertaining to a stoma; of the nature of a stoma. 

STOMATIC:  A medicine for diseases of the mouth. Dunglison. 

STOMATIFEROUS:  Having or producing stomata. 

STOMATITIS:  Inflammation of the mouth. 

STOMATODA:  A division of Protozoa in which a mouthlike opening exists. 

STOMATODAEUM:  Same as Stomodæum. 

STOMATODE:  Having a mouth; -- applied to certain Protozoa.  -- n.  One of the Stomatoda. 

STOMATOGASTRIC:  Of or pertaining to the mouth and the stomach; as, the stomatogastric ganglion of certain Mollusca. 

STOMATOLOGY:  Scientific study or knowledge of the mouth. 

STOMATOPLASTIC:  Of or pertaining to the operation of forming a mouth where the aperture has been contracted, or in any way deformed. 

STOMATOPLASTY:  Plastic surgery of the mouth. 

STOMATOPOD:  One of the Stomatopoda. 

STOMATOPODA:  Same as Stomapoda. 

STOMATOPODOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Stomatopoda. 

STOMATOSCOPE:  An apparatus for examining the interior of the mouth. 

STOMATOUS:  Having a stoma. 

STOMODAEUM:  A part of the alimentary canal. See under Mesenteron.  2. (Zoöl.)  The primitive mouth and esophagus of the embryo of annelids and arthropods. 

STOMP:  To stamp with the foot. [Colloq.] "In gallant procession, the priests mean to stomp." R. Browning. 

STOND:  To stand. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STONE:  A calculous concretion, especially one in the kidneys or bladder; the disease arising from a calculus.  5. One of the testes; a testicle. Shak.  6. (Bot.)  The hard endocarp of drupes; as, the stone of a cherry or peach. See Illust. of Endocarp.  7. A weight which legally is fourteen pounds, but in practice varies with the article weighed. [Eng.]  Note: The stone of butchers' meat or fish is reckoned at 8 lbs.; of cheese, 16 lbs.; of hemp, 32 lbs.; of glass, 5 lbs.  8. Fig.: Symbol of hardness and insensibility; torpidness; insensibility; as, a heart of stone. I have not yet forgot myself to stone. Pope.  9. (Print.)  A stand or table with a smooth, flat top of stone, commonly marble, on which to arrange the pages of a book, newspaper, etc., before printing; -- called also imposing stone.  Note: Stone is used adjectively or in composition with other words to denote made of stone, containing a stone or stones, employed on stone, or, more generally, of or pertaining to stone or stones; as, stone fruit, or stone-fruit; stone-hammer, or stone hammer; stone falcon, or stone-falcon. Compounded with some adjectives it denotes a degree of the quality expressed by the adjective equal to that possessed by a stone; as, stone-dead, stone-blind, stone-cold, stone- still, etc. Atlantic stone, ivory. [Obs.] "Citron tables, or Atlantic stone." Milton.  -- Bowing stone. Same as Cromlech. Encyc. Brit.  -- Meteoric stones, stones which fall from the atmosphere, as after the explosion of a meteor.  -- Philosopher's stone. See under Philosopher.  -- Rocking stone. See Rocking-stone.  -- Stone age, a supposed prehistoric age of the world when stone and bone were habitually used as the materials for weapons and tools; -- called also flint age. The bronze age succeeded to this.  -- Stone bass (Zoöl.), any one of several species of marine food fishes of the genus Serranus and allied genera, as Serranus Couchii, and Polyprion cernium of Europe; -- called also sea perch.  -- Stone biter (Zoöl.), the wolf fish.  -- Stone boiling, a method of boiling water or milk by dropping hot stones into it, -- in use among savages. Tylor.  -- Stone borer (Zoöl.), any animal that bores stones; especially, one of certain bivalve mollusks which burrow in limestone. See Lithodomus, and Saxicava.  -- Stone bramble (Bot.), a European trailing species of bramble (Rubus saxatilis).  -- Stone-break. Etym: [Cf. G. steinbrech.] (Bot.) Any plant of the genus Saxifraga; saxifrage.  -- Stone bruise, a sore spot on the bottom of the foot, from a bruise by a stone.  -- Stone canal. (Zoöl.) Same as Sand canal, under Sand.  -- Stone cat (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small fresh- water North American catfishes of the genus Noturus. They have sharp pectoral spines with which they inflict painful wounds.  -- Stone coal, hard coal; mineral coal; anthracite coal.  -- Stone coral (Zoöl.), any hard calcareous coral.  -- Stone crab. (Zoöl.) (a) A large crab (Menippe mercenaria) found on the southern coast of the United States and much used as food. (b) A European spider crab (Lithodes maia). Stone crawfish (Zoöl.), a European crawfish (Astacus torrentium), by many writers considered only a variety of the common species (A. fluviatilis).  -- Stone curlew. (Zoöl.) (a) A large plover found in Europe (Edicnemus crepitans). It frequents stony places. Called also thick- kneed plover or bustard, and thick-knee. (b) The whimbrel. [Prov. Eng.] (c) The willet. [Local, U.S.] -- Stone crush. Same as Stone bruise, above.  -- Stone eater. (Zoöl.) Same as Stone borer, above.  -- Stone falcon (Zoöl.), the merlin.  -- Stone fern (Bot.), a European fern (Asplenium Ceterach) which grows on rocks and walls.  -- Stone fly (Zoöl.), any one of many species of pseudoneuropterous insects of the genus Perla and allied genera; a perlid. They are often used by anglers for bait. The larvæ are aquatic.  -- Stone fruit (Bot.), any fruit with a stony endocarp; a drupe, as a peach, plum, or cherry.  -- Stone grig (Zoöl.), the mud lamprey, or pride.  -- Stone hammer, a hammer formed with a face at one end, and a thick, blunt edge, parallel with the handle, at the other, -- used for breaking stone.  -- Stone hawk (Zoöl.), the merlin; -- so called from its habit of sitting on bare stones.  -- Stone jar, a jar made of stoneware.  -- Stone lily (Paleon.), a fossil crinoid.  -- Stone lugger. (Zoöl.) See Stone roller, below.  -- Stone marten (Zoöl.), a European marten (Mustela foina) allied to the pine marten, but having a white throat; -- called also beech marten.  -- Stone mason, a mason who works or builds in stone.  -- Stone-mortar (Mil.), a kind of large mortar formerly used in sieges for throwing a mass of small stones short distances.  -- Stone oil, rock oil, petroleum.  -- Stone parsley (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant (Seseli Labanotis). See under Parsley.  -- Stone pine. (Bot.) A nut pine. See the Note under Pine, and Piñon.  -- Stone pit, a quarry where stones are dug.  -- Stone pitch, hard, inspissated pitch.  -- Stone plover. (Zoöl.) (a) The European stone curlew. (b) Any one of several species of Asiatic plovers of the genus Esacus; as, the large stone plover (E. recurvirostris). (c) The gray or black-bellied plover. [Prov. Eng.] (d) The ringed plover. (e) The bar-tailed godwit. [Prov. Eng.] Also applied to other species of limicoline birds.  -- Stone roller. (Zoöl.) (a) An American fresh-water fish (Catostomus nigricans) of the Sucker family. Its color is yellowish olive, often with dark blotches. Called also stone lugger, stone toter, hog sucker, hog mullet. (b) A common American cyprinoid fish (Campostoma anomalum); -- called also stone lugger.  -- Stone's cast, or Stone's throw, the distance to which a stone may be thrown by the hand.  -- Stone snipe (Zoöl.), the greater yellowlegs, or tattler. [Local, U.S.] -- Stone toter. (Zoöl.) (a) See Stone roller (a), above. (b) A cyprinoid fish (Exoglossum maxillingua) found in the rivers from Virginia to New York. It has a three-lobed lower lip; -- called also cutlips.  -- To leave no stone unturned, to do everything that can be done; to use all practicable means to effect an object. 

STONEBIRD:  The yellowlegs; -- called also stone snipe. See Tattler, 2. [Local, U.S.]  STONE-BLIND Stone"-blind`, a.  As blind as a stone; completely blind. 

STONEBOW:  A kind of crossbow formerly used for shooting stones. Shak. 

STONEBRASH:  A subsoil made up of small stones or finely-broken rock; brash. 

STONEBREARER:  A machine for crushing or hammering stone. Knight. 

STONEBUCK:  See Steinbock. 

STONECHAT:  Cold as a stone. Stone-cold without, within burnt with love's flame. Fairfax. 

STONECRAY:  A distemper in hawks. 

STONECROP:  Any low succulent plant of the genus Sedum, esp. Sedum acre, which is common on bare rocks in Europe, and is spreading in parts of America. See Orpine. Virginian, or Ditch, stonecrop, an American plant (Penthorum sedoides). 

STONECUTTER:  One whose occupation is to cut stone; also, a machine for dressing stone. 

STONECUTTING:  Hewing or dressing stone.  STONE-DEAD Stone"-dead`, a.  As dead as a stone.  STONE-DEAF Stone"-deaf`, a.  As deaf as a stone; completely deaf. 

STONEGALL:  See Stannel. [Prov. Eng.] 

STONEHATCH:  The ring plover, or dotterel. [Prov. Eng.]  STONE-HEARTED Stone"-heart`ed, a.  Hard-hearted; cruel; pitiless; unfeeling. 

STONEHENGE:  An assemblage of upright stones with others placed horizontally on their tops, on Salisbury Plain, England, -- generally supposed to be the remains of an ancient Druidical temple.  STONE-HORSE Stone"-horse`, n.  Stallion. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

STONEROOT:  A North American plant (Collinsonia Canadensis) having a very hard root; horse balm. See Horse balm, under Horse. 

STONESMICKLE:  The stonechat; -- called also stonesmitch. [Prov. Eng.]  STONE-STILL Stone"-still`, a.  As still as a stone. Shak. 

STONEWARE:  A species of coarse potter's ware, glazed and baked. 

STONEWEED:  Any plant of the genus Lithospermum, herbs having a fruit composed of four stony nutlets. 

STONEWORK:  Work or wall consisting of stone; mason's work of stone. Mortimer. 

STONEWORT:  Any plant of the genus Chara; -- so called because they are often incrusted with carbonate of lime. See Chara. 

STONILY:  In a stony manner. 

STONINESS:  The quality or state of being stony. 

STONISH:  Stony. [R.] "Possessed with stonish insensibility." Robynson (More's Utopia). 

STONT:  3d pers. sing. present of Stand. 

STOOD:  imp. & p. p. of Stand. 

STOOK:  A small collection of sheaves set up in the field; a shock; in England, twelve sheaves. 

STOOK:  To set up, as sheaves of grain, in stooks. 

STOOL:  A plant from which layers are propagated by bending its branches into the soil. P. Henderson. 

STOOL:  To ramfy; to tiller, as grain; to shoot out suckers. R. D. Blackmore. 

STOOL:  A small channel on the side of a vessel, for the dead-eyes of the backstays. Totten.  5. A bishop's seat or see; a bishop-stool. J. P. Peters.  6. A bench or form for resting the feet or the knees; a footstool; as, a kneeling stool.  7. Material, such as oyster shells, spread on the sea bottom for oyster spat to adhere to. [Local, U.S.] Stool of a window, or Window stool (Arch.), the flat piece upon which the window shuts down, and which corresponds to the sill of a door; in the United States, the narrow shelf fitted on the inside against the actual sill upon which the sash descends. This is called a window seat when broad and low enough to be used as a seat. Stool of repentance, the cuttystool. [Scot.] -- Stool pigeon, a pigeon used as a decoy to draw others within a net; hence, a person used as a decoy for others. 

STOOLBALL:  A kind of game with balls, formerly common in England, esp. with young women. Nausicaa With other virgins did at stoolball play. Chapman. 

STOOM:  To stum. [R.] 

STOOP:  Originally, a covered porch with seats, at a house door; the Dutch stoep as introduced by the Dutch into New York. Afterward, an out-of-door flight of stairs of from seven to fourteen steps, with platform and parapets, leading to an entrance door some distance above the street; the French perron. Hence, any porch, platform, entrance stairway, or small veranda, at a house door. [U. S.] 

STOOP:  A vessel of liquor; a flagon. [Written also stoup.] Fetch me a stoop of liquor. Shak. 

STOOP:  A post fixed in the earth. [Prov. Eng.] 

STOOPER:  One who stoops. 

STOOPING:  from Stoop.  -- Stoop"ing*ly, adv. 

STOOR:  To rise in clouds, as dust. [Prov. Eng.]  STOOR; STOR Stoor, Stor, a. Etym: [AS. stor; akin to LG. stur, Icel. storr.]  Strong; powerful; hardy; bold; audacious. [Obs. or Scot.] O stronge lady stoor, what doest thou Chaucer. 

STOP:  To regulate the sounds of, as musical strings, by pressing them against the finger board with the finger, or by shortening in any way the vibrating part.  6. To point, as a composition; to punctuate. [R.] If his sentences were properly stopped. Landor.  7. (Naut.)  To make fast; to stopper.  Syn.  -- To obstruct; hinder; impede; repress; suppress; restrain; discontinue; delay; interrupt. To stop off (Founding), to fill (a part of a mold) with sand, where a part of the cavity left by the pattern is not wanted for the casting.  -- To stop the mouth. See under Mouth. 

STOP:  A device, or piece, as a pin, block, pawl, etc., for arresting or limiting motion, or for determining the position to which another part shall be brought.  4. (Mus.) (a) The closing of an aperture in the air passage, or pressure of the finger upon the string, of an instrument of music, so as to modify the tone; hence, any contrivance by which the sounds of a musical instrument are regulated. The organ sound a time survives the stop. Daniel.  (b) In the organ, one of the knobs or handles at each side of the organist, by which he can draw on or shut off any register or row of pipes; the register itself; as, the vox humana stop.  5. (Arch.)  A member, plain or molded, formed of a separate piece and fixed to a jamb, against which a door or window shuts. This takes the place, or answers the purpose, of a rebate. Also, a pin or block to prevent a drawer from sliding too far.  6. A point or mark in writing or printing intended to distinguish the sentences, parts of a sentence, or clauses; a mark of punctuation. See Punctuation.  7. (Opt.)  The diaphragm used in optical instruments to cut off the marginal portions of a beam of light passing through lenses.  8. (Zoöl.)  The depression in the face of a dog between the skull and the nasal bones. It is conspicuous in the bulldog, pug, and some other breeds.  9. (Phonetics)  Some part of the articulating organs, as the lips, or the tongue and palate, closed (a) so as to cut off the passage of breath or voice through the mouth and the nose (distinguished as a lip-stop, or a front-stop, etc., as in p, t, d, etc.), or (b) so as to obstruct, but not entirely cut off, the passage, as in l, n, etc.; also, any of the consonants so formed. H. Sweet. Stop bead (Arch.), the molding screwed to the inner side of a window frame, on the face of the pulley stile, completing the groove in which the inner sash is to slide.  -- Stop motion (Mach.), an automatic device for arresting the motion of a machine, as when a certain operation is completed, or when an imperfection occurs in its performance or product, or in the material which is supplied to it, etc.  -- Stop plank, one of a set of planks employed to form a sort of dam in some hydraulic works.  -- Stop valve, a valve that can be closed or opened at will, as by hand, for preventing or regulating flow, as of a liquid in a pipe; -- in distinction from a valve which is operated by the action of the fluid it restrains.  -- Stop watch, a watch the hands of which can be stopped in order to tell exactly the time that has passed, as in timing a race. See Independent seconds watch, under Independent, a.  Syn.  -- Cessation; check; obstruction; obstacle; hindrance; impediment; interruption. 

STOPE:  A horizontal working forming one of a series, the working faces of which present the appearance of a flight of steps. 

STOPE:  Stepped; gone; advanced. [Obs.] A poor widow, somedeal stope in age. Chaucer.  STOP-GAP Stop"-gap`, n.  That which closes or fills up an opening or gap; hence, a temporary expedient. Moral prejudices are the stop-gaps of virtue. Hare. 

STOPING:  The act of excavating in the form of stopes. 

STOPLESS:  Not to be stopped. Davenant.  STOP ORDER Stop order. (Finance)  An order that aims to limit losses by fixing a figure at which purchases shall be sold or sales bought in, as where stock is bought at 100 and the broker is directed to sell if the market price drops to 98.  STOP-OVER Stop"-o`ver, a.  Permitting one to stop over; as, a stop-over check or ticket. See To stop over, under Stop, v. i. [Railroad Cant, U.S.] 

STOPPAGE:  The act of stopping, or arresting progress, motion, or action; also, the state of being stopped; as, the stoppage of the circulation of the blood; the stoppage of commerce. 

STOPPED:  Made by complete closure of the mouth organs; shut; -- said of certain consonants (p, b, t, d, etc.). H. Sweet. 

STOPPER:  A short piece of rope having a knot at one or both ends, with a lanyard under the knot, -- used to secure something. Totten.  3. (Bot.)  A name to several trees of the genus Eugenia, found in Florida and the West Indies; as, the red stopper. See Eugenia. C. S. Sargent. Ring stopper (Naut.), a short rope or chain passing through the anchor ring, to secure the anchor to the cathead.  -- Stopper bolt (Naut.), a large ringbolt in a ship's deck, to which the deck stoppers are hooked. 

STOPPER:  To close or secure with a stopper. 

STOPPING:  A partition or door to direct or prevent a current of air.  3. (Far.)  A pad or poultice of dung or other material applied to a horse's hoof to keep it moist. Youatt.  STOPPING-OUT Stop"ping-out`, n.  A method adopted in etching, to keep the acid from those parts which are already sufficiently corroded, by applying varnish or other covering matter with a brush, but allowing the acid to act on the other parts. 

STOPPLE:  That which stops or closes the mouth of a vessel; a stopper; as, a glass stopple; a cork stopple. 

STOPPLE:  To close the mouth of anything with a stopple, or as with a stopple. Cowper. 

STOPSHIP:  A remora. It was fabled to stop ships by attaching itself to them. Sylvester. 

STOR:  See Stoor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STORAX:  Any one of a number of similar complex resins obtained from the bark of several trees and shrubs of the Styrax family. The most common of these is liquid storax, a brown or gray semifluid substance of an agreeable aromatic odor and balsamic taste, sometimes used in perfumery, and in medicine as an expectorant.  Note: A yellow aromatic honeylike substance, resembling, and often confounded with, storax, is obtained from the American sweet gum tree (Liquidambar styraciflua), and is much used as a chewing gum, called sweet gum, and liquid storax. Cf. Liquidambar. 

STORE:  Articles, especially of food, accumulated for some specific object; supplies, as of provisions, arms, ammunition, and the like; as, the stores of an army, of a ship, of a family. His swine, his horse, his stoor, and his poultry. Chaucer. In store, in a state of accumulation; in keeping; hence, in a state of readiness. "I have better news in store for thee." Shak.  -- Store clothes, clothing purchased at a shop or store; -- in distinction from that which is home-made. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Store pay, payment for goods or work in articles from a shop or store, instead of money. [U.S.] -- To set store by, to value greatly; to have a high appreciation of.  -- To tell no store of, to make no account of; to consider of no importance.  Syn.  -- Fund; supply; abundance; plenty; accumulation; provision.  -- Store, Shop. The English call the place where goods are sold (however large or splendid it may be) a shop, and confine the word store to its original meaning; viz., a warehouse, or place where goods are stored. In America the word store is applied to all places, except the smallest, where goods are sold. In some British colonies the word store is used as in the United States. In his needy shop a tortoise hung, An alligator stuffed, and other skins Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves A beggarly account of empty boxes. Shak. Sulphurous and nitrous foam, . . . Concocted and adjusted, they reduced To blackest grain, and into store conveyed. Milton. 

STORE:  Accumulated; hoarded. Bacon. 

STORED:  Collected or accumulated as a reserve supply; as, stored electricity. It is charged with stored virtue. Bagehot. 

STORER:  One who lays up or forms a store. 

STOREROOM:  Room in a storehouse or repository; a room in which articles are stored. 

STORESHIP:  A vessel used to carry naval stores for a fleet, garrison, or the like. 

STOREY:  See Story. 

STORGE:  Parental affection; the instinctive affection which animals have for their young. 

STORIAL:  Historical. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STORIER:  A relater of stories; an historian. [Obs.] Bp. Peacock. 

STORIFY:  To form or tell stories of; to narrate or describe in a story. [Obs.] 

STORK:  Any one of several species of large wading birds of the family Ciconidæ, having long legs and a long, pointed bill. They are found both in the Old World and in America, and belong to Ciconia and several allied genera. The European white stork (Ciconia alba) is the best known. It commonly makes its nests on the top of a building, a chimney, a church spire, or a pillar. The black stork (C. nigra) is native of Asia, Africa, and Europe. Black-necked stork, the East Indian jabiru.  -- Hair-crested stork, the smaller adjutant of India (Leptoptilos Javanica).  -- Giant stork, the adjutant.  -- Marabou stork. See Marabou.  -- Saddle-billed stork, the African jabiru. See Jabiru.  -- Stork's bill (Bot.), any plant of the genus Pelargonium; -- so called in allusion to the beaklike prolongation of the axis of the receptacle of its flower. See Pelargonium.  STORK-BILLED Stork"-billed`, a.  Having a bill like that of the stork. 

STORM:  A violent assault on a fortified place; a furious attempt of troops to enter and take a fortified place by scaling the walls, forcing the gates, or the like.  Note: Storm is often used in the formation of self-explained compounds; as, storm-presaging, stormproof, storm-tossed, and the like. Magnetic storm. See under Magnetic.  -- Storm-and-stress period Etym: [a translation of G. sturm und drang periode], a designation given to the literary agitation and revolutionary development in Germany under the lead of Goethe and Schiller in the latter part of the 18th century.  -- Storm center (Meteorol.), the center of the area covered by a storm, especially by a storm of large extent.  -- Storm door (Arch.), an extra outside door to prevent the entrance of wind, cold, rain, etc.; -- usually removed in summer.  -- Storm path (Meteorol.), the course over which a storm, or storm center, travels.  -- Storm petrel. (Zoöl.) See Stormy petrel, under Petrel.  -- Storm sail (Naut.), any one of a number of strong, heavy sails that are bent and set in stormy weather.  -- Storm scud. See the Note under Cloud.  Syn.  -- Tempest; violence; agitation; calamity.  -- Storm, Tempest. Storm is violent agitation, a commotion of the elements by wind, etc., but not necessarily implying the fall of anything from the clouds. Hence, to call a mere fall or rain without wind a storm is a departure from the true sense of the word. A tempest is a sudden and violent storm, such as those common on the coast of Italy, where the term originated, and is usually attended by a heavy rain, with lightning and thunder. Storms beat, and rolls the main; O! beat those storms, and roll the seas, in vain. Pope. What at first was called a gust, the same Hath now a storm's, anon a tempest's name. Donne. 

STORM:  To assault; to attack, and attempt to take, by scaling walls, forcing gates, breaches, or the like; as, to storm a fortified town. 

STORM:  Beaten, injured, or impaired by storms. Spenser. 

STORMFINCH:  The storm petrel. 

STORMFUL:  Abounding with storms. "The stormful east." Carlyle.  -- Storm"ful*ness, n. 

STORMGLASS:  A glass vessel, usually cylindrical, filled with a solution which is sensitive to atmospheric changes, indicating by a clouded appearance, rain, snow, etc., and by clearness, fair weather. 

STORMILY:  In a stormy manner. 

STORMINESS:  The state of being stormy; tempestuousness; biosteruousness; impetuousness. 

STORMING:  from Storm, v. Storming party (Mil.), a party assigned to the duty of making the first assault in storming a fortress. 

STORMLESS:  Without storms. Tennyson. 

STORMWIND:  A heavy wind; a wind that brings a storm; the blast of a storm. Longfellow. 

STORTHING:  The Parliament of Norway, chosen by indirect election once in three years, but holding annual sessions. 

STORVEN:  p. p. of Starve. Chaucer. 

STORY:  A set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor, or the space between two floors. Also, a horizontal division of a building's exterior considered architecturally, which need not correspond exactly with the stories within. [Written also storey.]  Note: A story comprehends the distance from one floor to another; as, a story of nine or ten feet elevation. The spaces between floors are numbered in order, from below upward; as, the lower, second, or third story; a house of one story, of two stories, of five stories. Story post (Arch.), a vertical post used to support a floor or superincumbent wall. 

STORY:  To tell in historical relation; to make the subject of a story; to narrate or describe in story. How worthy he is I will leave to appear hereafter, rather than story him in his own hearing. Shak. It is storied of the brazen colossus in Rhodes, that it was seventy cubits high. Bp. Wilkins. 

STORYBOOK:  A book containing stories, or short narratives, either true or false.  STORY-TELLER Sto"ry-tell`er, n.  1. One who tells stories; a narrator of anecdotes,incidents, or fictitious tales; as, an amusing story-teller.  2. An historian; -- in contempt. Swift.  3. A euphemism or child's word for "a liar."  STORY-TELLING Sto"ry-tell`ing, a.  Being accustomed to tell stories.  -- n.  The act or practice of telling stories.  STORY-WRITER Sto"ry-writ`er, n.  1. One who writes short stories, as for magazines.  2. An historian; a chronicler. [Obs.] "Rathums, the story-writer." 1 Esdr. ii. 17. 

STOTE:  See Stoat. 

STOUND:  To be in pain or sorrow. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

STOUND:  Stunned. [Obs.] 

STOUND:  A vessel for holding small beer. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

STOUP:  A basin at the entrance of Roman Catholic churches for containing the holy water with which those who enter, dipping their fingers in it, cross themselves; -- called also holy-water stoup. 

STOUR:  A battle or tumult; encounter; combat; disturbance; passion. [Obs.] Fairfax. "That woeful stowre." Spenser. She that helmed was in starke stours [fierce conflicts]. Chaucer. 

STOUR:  Tall; strong; stern. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

STOUT:  A strong malt liquor; strong porter. Swift.  STOUT-HEARTED Stout"-heart"ed, a.  Having a brave heart; courageous.  -- Stout"-heart"ed*ness, n. 

STOUTISH:  Somewhat stout; somewhat corpulent. 

STOUTLY:  In a stout manner; lustily; boldly; obstinately; as, he stoutly defended himself. 

STOUTNESS:  The state or quality of being stout.  Syn.  -- Strength; bulk; courage; force; valor; lustiness; brawniness; boldness; fortitude; stubbornness.  STOVAIN; STOVAINE Sto"va*in, n. Also -ine. [Stove (a translation of the name of the discoverer, Fourneau + -in, -ine.] (Pharm.)  A substance, C14H22O2NCl, the hydrochloride of an amino compound containing benzol, used, in solution with strychnine, as a local anæsthetic, esp. by injection into the sheath of the spinal cord, producing anæsthesia below the point of introduction. 

STOVE:  imp. of Stave. 

STOVEHOUSE:  A hothouse. 

STOVEPIPE:  Pipe made of sheet iron in length and angular or curved pieces fitting together, -- used to connect a portable stove with a chimney flue. Stovepipe hat, the common tall silk hat. [Slang, U.S.] 

STOVER:  Fodder for cattle, especially straw or coarse hay. Where live nibbling sheep, And flat meads thatched with stover them to keep. Shak. Thresh barley as yet but as need shall require, Fresh threshed for stover thy cattle desire. Tusser. 

STOWAWAY:  One who conceals himself board of a vessel about to leave port, or on a railway train, in order to obtain a free passage. 

STOWBOARD:  A place into which rubbish is put. [Written also stowbord.] 

STOWING:  A method of working in which the waste is packed into the space formed by excavating the vein. 

STOWRE:  See Stour, a. [Obs.] 

STOWRE:  See Stour, n. [Obs.] Spenser. 

STRABISM:  Strabismus. 

STRABISMOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the amount of strabismus. 

STRABISMUS:  An affection of one or both eyes, in which the optic axes can not be directed to the same object, -- a defect due either to undue contraction or to undue relaxation of one or more of the muscles which move the eyeball; squinting; cross-eye. 

STRABOTOMY:  The operation for the removal of squinting by the division of such muscles as distort the eyeball. 

STRADDLE:  To place one leg on one side and the other on the other side of; to stand or sit astride of; as, to straddle a fence or a horse. 

STRADDLING:  Applied to spokes when they are arranged alternately in two circles in the hub. See Straddle, v. i., and Straddle, v. t., 3. Knight. 

STRADOMETRICAL:  Of, or relating to, the measuring of streets or roads. [R.] 

STRAGGLE:  The act of straggling. [R.] Carlyle. 

STRAGGLING:  from Straggle, v. 

STRAGGLINGLY:  In a straggling manner. 

STRAGULUM:  The mantle, or pallium, of a bird. 

STRAIGHT:  A variant of Strait, a. [Obs. or R.] Egypt is a long country, but it is straight, that is to say, narrow. Sir J. Mandeville. 

STRAIGHT:  Approximately straight; not much curved; as, straight ribs are such as pass from the base of a leaf to the apex, with a small curve.  3. (Card Playing)  Composed of cards which constitute a regular sequence, as the ace, king, queen, jack, and ten-spot; as, a straight hand; a straight flush.  4. Conforming to justice and rectitude; not deviating from truth or fairness; upright; as, straight dealing.  5. Unmixed; undiluted; as, to take liquor straight. [Slang]  6. Making no exceptions or deviations in one's support of the organization and candidates of a political party; as, a straight Republican; a straight Democrat; also, containing the names of all the regularly nominated candidates of a party and no others; as, a straight ballot. [Political Cant, U.S.] Straight arch (Arch.), a form of arch in which the intrados is straight, but with its joints drawn radially, as in a common arch.  -- A straight face, one giving no evidence of merriment or other emotion.  -- A straight line. "That which lies evenly between its extreme points." Euclid. "The shortest line between two points." Chauvenet. "A line which has the same direction through its whole length." Newcomb.  -- Straight-way valve, a valve which, when opened widely, affords a straight passageway, as for water. walk the straight and narrow. 

STRAIGHT:  In a straight manner; directly; rightly; forthwith; immediately; as, the arrow went straight to the mark. "Floating straight." Shak. I know thy generous temper well; Fling but the appearance of dishonor on it, It straight takes fire, and mounts into a blaze. Addison. Everything was going on straight. W. Black. 

STRAIGHT:  A hand of five cards in consecutive order as to value; a sequence. When they are of one suit, it is calles straight flush. 

STRAIGHT:  To straighten. [R.] A Smith. 

STRAIGHTEDGE:  A board, or piece of wood or metal, having one edge perfectly straight, -- used to ascertain whether a line is straight or a surface even, and for drawing straight lines. 

STRAIGHTEN:  A variant of Straiten. [Obs. or R.] 

STRAIGHTENER:  One who, or that which, straightens. 

STRAIGHTFORTH:  Straightway. [Obs.] 

STRAIGHTFORWARD:  Proceeding in a straight course or manner; not deviating; honest; frank.  -- adv.  In a straightforward manner.  -- Straight`for"ward*ly, adv.  -- Straight`for"ward*ness, n. 

STRAIGHTHORN:  An orthoceras.  STRAIGHT-JOINT Straight"-joint`, a. (Arch.)  Having straight joints. Specifically: (a) Applied to a floor the boards of which are so laid that the joints form a continued line transverse to the length of the boards themselves. Brandle & C. (b) In the United States, applied to planking or flooring put together without the tongue and groove, the pieces being laid edge to edge.  STRAIGHT-LINED Straight"-lined`, a.  Having straight lines. 

STRAIGHTLY:  In a right line; not crookedly. 

STRAIGHTLY:  A variant of Straitly. See 1st Straight. 

STRAIGHTNESS:  The quality, condition, or state, of being straight; as, the straightness of a path. 

STRAIGHTNESS:  A variant of Straitness.  STRAIGHT-OUT Straight"-out`, a.  Acting without concealment, obliquity, or compromise; hence, unqualified; thoroughgoing. [Colloq. U.S.] Straight-out and generous indignation. Mrs. Stowe.  STRAIGHT-PIGHT Straight"-pight`, a.  Straight in form or upright in position; erect. [Obs.] Shak.  STRAIGHT-SPOKEN Straight"-spo`ken, a.  Speaking with directness; plain-spoken. [Colloq. U.S.] Lowell. 

STRAIGHTWAY:  Immediately; without loss of time; without delay. He took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, Talitha cumi. . . . And straightway the damsel arose. Mark v. 41,42. 

STRAIGHTWAYS:  Straightway. [Obs.] 

STRAIK:  A strake. 

STRAIN:  To act upon, in any way, so as to cause change of form or volume, as forces on a beam to bend it.  3. To exert to the utmost; to ply vigorously. He sweats, Strains his young nerves. Shak. They strain their warbling throats To welcome in the spring. Dryden.  4. To stretch beyond its proper limit; to do violence to, in the matter of intent or meaning; as, to strain the law in order to convict an accused person. There can be no other meaning in this expression, however some may pretend to strain it. Swift.  5. To injure by drawing, stretching, or the exertion of force; as, the gale strained the timbers of the ship.  6. To injure in the muscles or joints by causing to make too strong an effort; to harm by overexertion; to sprain; as, to strain a horse by overloading; to strain the wrist; to strain a muscle. Prudes decayed about may track, Strain their necks with looking back. Swift.  7. To squeeze; to press closely. Evander with a close embrace Strained his departing friend. Dryden.  8. To make uneasy or unnatural; to produce with apparent effort; to force; to constrain. He talks and plays with Fatima, but his mirth Is forced and strained. Denham. The quality of mercy is not strained. Shak.  9. To urge with importunity; to press; as, to strain a petition or invitation. Note, if your lady strain his entertainment. Shak.  10. To press, or cause to pass, through a strainer, as through a screen, a cloth, or some porous substance; to purify, or separate from extraneous or solid matter, by filtration; to filter; as, to strain milk through cloth. To strain a point, to make a special effort; especially, to do a degree of violence to some principle or to one's own feelings.  -- To strain courtesy, to go beyond what courtesy requires; to insist somewhat too much upon the precedence of others; -- often used ironically. Shak. 

STRAIN:  A change of form or dimensions of a solid or liquid mass, produced by a stress. Rankine.  2. (Mus.)  A portion of music divided off by a double bar; a complete musical period or sentence; a movement, or any rounded subdivision of a movement. Their heavenly harps a lower strain began. Dryden.  3. Any sustained note or movement; a song; a distinct portion of an ode or other poem; also, the pervading note, or burden, of a song, poem, oration, book, etc.; theme; motive; manner; style; also, a course of action or conduct; as, he spoke in a noble strain; there was a strain of woe in his story; a strain of trickery appears in his career. "A strain of gallantry." Sir W. Scott. Such take too high a strain at first. Bacon. The genius and strain of the book of Proverbs. Tillotson. It [Pilgrim's Progress] seems a novelty, and yet contains Nothing but sound and honest gospel strains. Bunyan.  4. Turn; tendency; inborn disposition. Cf. 1st Strain. Because heretics have a strain of madness, he applied her with some corporal chastisements. Hayward. 

STRAINABLY:  Violently. Holinshed. 

STRAINING:  from Strain. Straining piece (Arch.), a short piece of timber in a truss, used to maintain the ends of struts or rafters, and keep them from slipping. See Illust. of Queen-post. 

STRAINT:  Overexertion; excessive tension; strain. [Obs.] Spenser. 

STRAIT:  A variant of Straight. [Obs.] 

STRAIT:  Strictly; rigorously. [Obs.] Shak. 

STRAIT:  A (comparatively) narrow passageway connecting two large bodies of water; -- often in the plural; as, the strait, or straits, of Gibraltar; the straits of Magellan; the strait, or straits, of Mackinaw. We steered directly through a large outlet which they call a strait, though it be fifteen miles broad. De Foe.  3. A neck of land; an isthmus. [R.] A dark strait of barren land. Tennyson.  4. Fig.: A condition of narrowness or restriction; doubt; distress; difficulty; poverty; perplexity; -- sometimes in the plural; as, reduced to great straits. For I am in a strait betwixt two. Phil. i. 23. Let no man, who owns a Providence, grow desperate under any calamity or strait whatsoever. South. Ulysses made use of the pretense of natural infirmity to conceal the straits he was in at that time in his thoughts. Broome. 

STRAIT:  To put to difficulties. [Obs.] Shak. 

STRAITEN:  Parsimonious; sparing; niggardly. [R.] -- Strait"-hand`ed*ness, n. [R.]  STRAIT-JACKET Strait"-jack`et, n.  A dress of strong materials for restraining maniacs or those who are violently delirious. It has long sleeves, which are closed at the ends, confining the hands, and may be tied behind the back.  STRAIT-LACED Strait"-laced`, a.  1. Bound with stays. Let nature have scope to fashion the body as she thinks best; we have few well-shaped that are strait-laced. Locke.  2. Restricted; stiff; constrained. [R.] Fuller.  3. Rigid in opinion; strict in manners or morals. 

STRAITNESS:  The quality or condition of being strait; especially, a pinched condition or situation caused by poverty; as, the straitnessof their circumstances.  STRAIT-WAISTCOAT Strait"-waist`coat, n.  Same as Strait-jacket. 

STRAKE:  imp. of Strike. Spenser. 

STRAKE:  One breadth of planks or plates forming a continuous range on the bottom or sides of a vessel, reaching from the stem to the stern; a streak.  Note: The planks or plates next the keel are called the garboard strakes; the next, or the heavy strakes at the bilge, are the bilge strakes; the next, from the water line to the lower port sill, the wales; and the upper parts of the sides, the sheer strakes.  4. (Mining)  A trough for washing broken ore, gravel, or sand; a launder. 

STRALE:  Pupil of the eye. [Prov. Eng.] 

STRAM:  To spring or recoil with violence. [Prov. Eng.] 

STRAM:  To dash down; to beat. [Prov. Eng.] 

STRAMASH:  To strike, beat, or bang; to break; to destroy. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 

STRAMASH:  A turmoil; a broil; a fray; a fight. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Barham. 

STRAMAZOUN:  A direct descending blow with the edge of a sword. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

STRAMONIUM:  A poisonous plant (Datura Stramonium); stinkweed. See Datura, and Jamestown weed. 

STRAMONY:  Stramonium. 

STRAND:  One of the twists, or strings, as of fibers, wires, etc., of which a rope is composed. 

STRAND:  To break a strand of (a rope). 

STRAND:  The shore, especially the beach of a sea, ocean, or large lake; rarely, the margin of a navigable river. Chaucer. Strand birds. (Zoöl.) See Shore birds, under Shore.  -- Strand plover (Zoöl.), a black-bellied plover. See Illust. of Plover.  -- Strand wolf (Zoöl.), the brown hyena. 

STRAND:  To drive on a strand; hence, to run aground; as, to strand a ship. 

STRAND:  To drift, or be driven, on shore to run aground; as, the ship stranded at high water. 

STRANG:  Strong. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 

STRANGE:  Strangely. [Obs.] Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak. Shak. 

STRANGE:  To alienate; to estrange. [Obs.] 

STRANGENESS:  The state or quality of being strange (in any sense of the adjective). 

STRANGER:  One not privy or party an act, contract, or title; a mere intruder or intermeddler; one who interferes without right; as, actual possession of land gives a good title against a stranger having no title; as to strangers, a mortgage is considered merely as a pledge; a mere stranger to the levy. 

STRANGER:  To estrange; to alienate. [Obs.] Shak. 

STRANGLE:  To be strangled, or suffocated. 

STRANGLEABLE:  Capable of being strangled. [R.] Chesterfield.  STRANGLE HOLD Stran"gle hold.  In wrestling, a hold by which one's opponent is choked. It is usually not allowed. 

STRANGLER:  One who, or that which, strangles. "The very strangler of their amity." Shak. 

STRANGLES:  A disease in horses and swine, in which the upper part of the throat, or groups of lymphatic glands elsewhere, swells. 

STRANGULATE:  Strangulated. 

STRANGULATED:  Having the circulation stopped by compression; attended with arrest or obstruction of circulation, caused by constriction or compression; as, a strangulated hernia.  2. (Bot.)  Contracted at irregular intervals, if tied with a ligature; constricted. Strangulated hernia. (Med.) See under Hernia. 

STRANGULATION:  Inordinate compression or constriction of a tube or part, as of the throat; especially, such as causes a suspension of breathing, of the passage of contents, or of the circulation, as in cases of hernia. 

STRANGURIOUS:  Of or pertaining to strangury. Cheyne. 

STRANGURY:  A painful discharge of urine, drop by drop, produced by spasmodic muscular contraction.  2. (Bot.)  A swelling or other disease in a plant, occasioned by a ligature fastened tightly about it. 

STRANY:  The guillemot. [Prov. Eng.] 

STRAP:  A band, plate, or loop of metal for clasping and holding timbers or parts of a machine. (b) (Naut.)  A piece of rope or metal passing around a block and used for fastening it to anything.  5. (Bot.) (a) The flat part of the corolla in ligulate florets, as those of the white circle in the daisy. (b) The leaf, exclusive of its sheath, in some grasses.  6. A shoulder strap. See under Shoulder. Strap bolt, a bolt of which one end is a flat bar of considerable length.  -- Strap head (Mach.), a journal box, or pair of brasses, secured to the end of a connecting rod by a strap. See Illust. of Gib and key, under Gib.  -- Strap hinge, a hinge with long flaps by which it is fastened, as to a door or wall.  -- Strap rail (Railroads), a flat rail formerly used. 

STRAPPADO:  A military punishment formerly practiced, which consisted in drawing an offender to the top of a beam and letting him fall to the length of the rope, by which means a limb was often dislocated. Shak. 

STRAPPADO:  To punish or torture by the strappado. Milton. 

STRAPPING:  Tall; strong; lusty; large; as, a strapping fellow. [Colloq.] There are five and thirty strapping officers gone. Farquhar. 

STRAPPLE:  To hold or bind with, or as with, a strap; to entangle. [Obs.] Chapman.  STRAP-SHAPED Strap"-shaped`, a.  Shaped like a strap; ligulate; as, a strap-shaped corolla. 

STRAPWORK:  A kind of ornament consisting of a narrow fillet or band folded, crossed, and interlaced. 

STRASS:  A brilliant glass, used in the manufacture of artificial paste gems, which consists essentially of a complex borosilicate of lead and potassium. Cf. Glass. 

STRATA:  pl. of Stratum. 

STRATAGEM:  An artifice or trick in war for deceiving the enemy; hence, in general, artifice; deceptive device; secret plot; evil machination. Fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils. Shak. Those oft are stratagems which error seem, Nor is it Homer nods, but we that dream. Pope. 

STRATAGEMICAL:  Containing stratagem; as, a stratagemical epistle. [R.] Swift. 

STRATARITHMETRY:  The art of drawing up an army, or any given number of men, in any geometrical figure, or of estimating or expressing the number of men in such a figure.  STRATEGETIC; STRATEGETICAL Strat`e*get"ic, Strat`e*get"ic*al, a.  Strategic. 

STRATEGETICS:  Strategy.  STRATEGIC; STRATEGICAL Stra*te"gic, Stra*te"gic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. stratégique.]  Of or pertaining to strategy; effected by artifice.  -- Stra*te"gic*al*ly, adv. Strategic line (Mil.), a line joining strategic points.  -- Strategic point (Mil.), any point or region in the theater or warlike operations which affords to its possessor an advantage over his opponent, as a mountain pass, a junction of rivers or roads, a fortress, etc. 

STRATEGICS:  Strategy. 

STRATEGIST:  One skilled in strategy, or the science of directing great military movements. 

STRATEGUS:  The leader or commander of an army; a general. 

STRATH:  A valley of considerable size, through which a river runs; a valley bottom; -- often used in composition with the name of the river; as, Strath Spey, Strathdon, Strathmore. [Scot.] The long green strath of Napa valley. R. L. Stevenson. 

STRATHSPEY:  A lively Scottish dance, resembling the reel, but slower; also, the tune. 

STRATICULATE:  Characterized by the presence of thin parallel strata, or layers, as in an agate. 

STRATIFICATION:  The deposition of material in successive layers in the growth of a cell wall, thus giving rise to a stratified appearance. 

STRATIFIED:  Having its substance arranged in strata, or layers; as, stratified rock. 

STRATIFORM:  Having the form of strata. 

STRATIFY:  To form or deposit in strata, or layers, as substances in the earth; to arrange in strata.  STRATIGRAPHIC; STRATIGRAPHICAL Strat`i*graph"ic, Strat`i*graph"ic*al, a. (Geol.)  Pertaining to, or depended upon, the order or arrangement of strata; as, stratigraphical evidence.  -- Strat`i*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.  STRATIGRAPHIC; STRATIGRAPHICAL Strat`i*graph"ic, -ic*al, a. (Mil.)  See Stratographic. 

STRATIGRAPHY:  That branch of geology which treats of the arrangement and succession of strata.  STRATO-CIRRUS Stra`to-cir"rus, n.  [Stratus + cirrus.] (Meteor.)  An alto-stratus cloud. 

STRATOCRACY:  A military government; government by military chiefs and an army.  STRATO-CUMULUS Stra`to-cu"mu*lus, n. [Stratus + cumulus.] (Meteor.)  Large balls or rolls of dark cloud which frequently cover the whole sky, esp. in winter, and give it at times an undulated appearance.  STRATOGRAPHIC; STRATOGRAPHICAL Strat`o*graph"ic, Strat`o*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to stratography. 

STRATOGRAPHY:  A description of an army, or of what belongs to an army. 

STRATONIC:  Of or pertaining to an army. [R.] 

STRATOTIC:  Warlike; military. [R.] 

STRATUM:  A bed of earth or rock of one kind, formed by natural causes, and consisting usually of a series of layers, which form a rock as it lies between beds of other kinds. Also used figuratively.  2. A bed or layer artificially made; a course. 

STRATUS:  A form of clouds in which they are arranged in a horizontal band or layer. See Cloud. 

STRAUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Stretch. 

STRAUGHT:  To stretch; to make straight. [Written also straucht.] [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

STRAW:  To spread or scatter. See Strew, and Strow. Chaucer. 

STRAWBERRY:  A fragrant edible berry, of a delicious taste and commonly of a red color, the fruit of a plant of the genus Fragaria, of which there are many varieties. Also, the plant bearing the fruit. The common American strawberry is Fragaria virginiana; the European, F. vesca. There are also other less common species. Strawberry bass. (Zoöl.) See Calico bass, under Calico.  -- Strawberry blite. (Bot.) See under Blite.  -- Strawberry borer (Zoöl.), any one of several species of insects whose larvæ burrow in the crown or roots of the strawberry vine. Especially: (a) The root borer (Anarsia lineatella), a very small dark gray moth whose larvæ burrow both in the larger roots and crown, often doing great damage. (b) The crown borer (Tyloderma fragariæ), a small brown weevil whose larva burrows in the crown and kills the plant.  -- Strawberry bush (Bot.), an American shrub (Euonymus Americanus), a kind of spindle tree having crimson pods and the seeds covered with a scarlet aril.  -- Strawberry crab (Zoöl.), a small European spider crab (Eurynome aspera); -- so called because the back is covered with pink tubercles.  -- Strawberry fish (Zoöl.), the amadavat.  -- Strawberry geranium (Bot.), a kind of saxifrage (Saxifraga sarmentosa) having reniform leaves, and producing long runners like those of the strawberry.  -- Strawberry leaf. (a) The leaf of the strawberry. (b) The symbol of the rank or estate of a duke, because the ducal coronet is twined with strawberry leaves. "The strawberry leaves on her chariot panels are engraved on her ladyship's heart." Thackeray.  -- Strawberry-leaf roller (Zoöl.), any one of several species of moths whose larvæ roll up, and feed upon, the leaves of the strawberry vine; especially, Phoxopteris fragariæ, and Eccopsis permundana.  -- Strawberry moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of moth whose larvæ feed on the strawberry vines; as: (a) The smeared dagger (Apatela oblinita), whose large hairy larva is velvety black with two rows of bright yellow spots on each side. (b) A geometrid (Angerona crocataria) which is yellow with dusky spots on the wings. Called also currant moth.  -- Strawberry pear (Bot.), the red ovoid fruit of a West Indian plant of the genus Cereus (C. triangularia). It has a sweetish flavor, and is slightly acid, pleasant, and cooling. Also, the plant bearing the fruit.  -- Strawberry sawfly (Zoöl.), a small black sawfly (Emphytus maculatus) whose larva eats the leaves of the strawberry vine.  -- Strawberry tomato. (Bot.) See Alkekengi.  -- Strawberry tree. (Bot.) See Arbutus.  -- Strawberry vine (Bot.), the plant which yields the strawberry.  -- Strawberry worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any moth which feeds on the strawberry vine. 

STRAWBOARD:  Pasteboard made of pulp of straw.  STRAW-COLORED Straw"-col`ored, a.  Being of a straw color. See Straw color, under Straw, n.  STRAW-CUTTER Straw"-cut`ter, n.  An instrument to cut straw for fodder. 

STRAWED:  imp. & p. p. of Straw. [Obs.] 

STRAWWORM:  A caddice worm. 

STRAWY:  Of or pertaining to straw; made of, or resembling, straw. Shak. 

STRAY:  To cause to stray. [Obs.] Shak. 

STRAY:  Having gone astray; strayed; wandering; as, a strayhorse or sheep. Stray line (Naut.), that portion of the log line which is veered from the reel to allow the chip to get clear of the stern eddies before the glass is turned.  -- Stray mark (Naut.), the mark indicating the end of the stray line. 

STRAYER:  One who strays; a wanderer. 

STRE:  Straw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STREAK:  To stretch; to extend; hence, to lay out, as a dead body. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

STREAK:  A strake.  3. (Min.)  The fine powder or mark yielded by a mineral when scratched or rubbed against a harder surface, the color of which is sometimes a distinguishing character.  4. The rung or round of a ladder. [Obs.] 

STREAKY:  Same as Streaked, 1. "The streaky west." Cowper. 

STREAM:  To send forth in a current or stream; to cause to flow; to pour; as, his eyes streamed tears. It may so please that she at length will stream Some dew of grace into my withered heart. Spenser.  2. To mark with colors or embroidery in long tracts. The herald's mantle is streamed with gold. Bacon.  3. To unfurl. Shak. To stream the buoy. (Naut.) See under Buoy.  STREAM CLOCK Stream clock. (Physiol.)  An instrument for ascertaining the velocity of the blood in a vessel. 

STREAMER:  A searcher for stream tin. 

STREAMFUL:  Abounding in streams, or in water. "The streamful tide." Drayton.  STREAM GOLD Stream gold. (Mining)  Gold in alluvial deposits; placer gold. 

STREAMINESS:  The state of being streamy; a trailing. R. A. Proctor. 

STREAMING:  Sending forth streams. 

STREAMING:  The reduction of stream tin; also, the search for stream tin. 

STREAMLESS:  Destitute of streams, or of a stream, as a region of country, or a dry channel. 

STREAMLET:  A small stream; a rivulet; a rill.  STREAM LINE Stream line.  The path of a constituent particle of a flowing fluid undisturbed by eddies or the like. 

STREAMLINE:  Of or pert. to a stream line; designating a motion or flow that is free from turbulence, like that of a particle in a streamline; hence, designating a surface, body, etc., that is designed so as to afford an unbroken flow of a fluid about it, esp. when the resistance to flow is the least possible; as, a streamline body for an automobile or airship.  STREAM WHEEL Stream wheel.  A wheel used for measuring, by its motion when submerged, the velocity of flowing water; a current wheel. 

STREE:  Straw. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STREEK:  To stretch; also, to lay out, as a dead body. See Streak. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

STREEL:  To trail along; to saunter or be drawn along, carelessly, swaying in a kind of zigzag motion. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

STREEN:  See Strene. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STREET:  Originally, a paved way or road; a public highway; now commonly, a thoroughfare in a city or village, bordered by dwellings or business houses. He removed [the body of] Amasa from the street unto the field. Coverdale. At home or through the high street passing. Milton.  Note: In an extended sense, street designates besides the roadway, the walks, houses, shops, etc., which border the thoroughfare. His deserted mansion in Duke Street. Macaulay. The street (Broker's Cant), that thoroughfare of a city where the leading bankers and brokers do business; also, figuratively, those who do business there; as, the street would not take the bonds.  -- Street Arab, Street broker, etc. See under Arab, Broker, etc.  -- Street door, a door which opens upon a street, or is nearest the street.  Syn.  -- See Way. 

STREETWALKER:  A common prostitute who walks the streets to find customers. 

STREETWARD:  An officer, or ward, having the care of the streets. [Obs.] Cowell. 

STREETWARD:  Facing toward the street. Their little streetward sitting room. Tennyson. 

STREIGHT:  See 2nd Strait. [Obs.] 

STREIGHTEN:  See Straiten. [Obs.] 

STREIN:  To strain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STREIT:  Drawn. [Obs.] Pyrrhus with his streite sword. Chaucer. 

STREIT:  Close; narrow; strict. [Obs.] See Strait. 

STREITE:  Narrowly; strictly; straitly. [Obs.] 

STRELITZ:  A soldier of the ancient Muscovite guard or Russian standing army; also, the guard itself. 

STRELITZIA:  A genus of plants related to the banana, found at the Cape of Good Hope. They have rigid glaucous distichous leaves, and peculiar richly colored flowers. 

STRENE:  Race; offspring; stock; breed; strain. [Obs.] Chaucer.  STRENGER; STRENGEST Stren"ger, Stren"gest  , the original compar. & superl. of Strong. [Obs.] Two of us shall strenger be than one. Chaucer. 

STRENGTH:  To strengthen. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STRENGTHEN:  To grow strong or stronger. The young disease, that must subdue at length, Grows with his growth, and strengthens with his strength. Pope. 

STRENGTHENER:  One who, or that which, gives or adds strength. Sir W. Temple. 

STRENGTHENING:  That strengthens; giving or increasing strength.  -- Strength"en*ing*ly, adv. Strengthening plaster (Med.), a plaster containing iron, and supposed to have tonic effects. 

STRENGTHFUL:  Abounding in strength; full of strength; strong.  -- Strength"ful*ness, n. Florence my friend, in court my faction Not meanly strengthful. Marston. 

STRENGTHING:  A stronghold. [Obs.] 

STRENGTHLESS:  Destitute of strength. Boyle. 

STRENGTHNER:  See Strengthener. 

STRENGTHY:  Having strength; strong. [Obs.] 

STRENUITY:  Strenuousness; activity. [Obs.] Chapman. 

STRENUOUS:  Eagerly pressing or urgent; zealous; ardent; earnest; bold; valiant; intrepid; as, a strenuous advocate for national rights; a strenuous reformer; a strenuous defender of his country. And spirit-stirring wine, that strenuous makes. Chapman. Strenuous, continuous labor is pain. I. Taylor. -- Stren"u*ous*ly, adv.  -- Stren"u*ous*ness, n. 

STREPENT:  Noisy; loud. [R.] Shenstone. 

STREPEROUS:  Loud; boisterous. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

STREPITORES:  A division of birds, including the clamatorial and picarian birds, which do not have well developed singing organs.  STREPSIPTER; STREPSIPTERAN Strep*sip"ter, Strep*sip"ter*an, n. (Zoöl.)  One of the Strepsiptera. 

STREPSIPTERA:  A group of small insects having the anterior wings rudimentary, and in the form of short and slender twisted appendages, while the posterior ones are large and membranous. They are parasitic in the larval state on bees, wasps, and the like; -- called also Rhipiptera. See Illust. under Rhipipter. 

STREPSIPTEROUS:  Of or pertaining to Strepsiptera. 

STREPSORHINA:  Same as Lemuroidea. 

STREPSORHINE:  Having twisted nostrils; -- said of the lemurs.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  One of the Strepsorhina; a lemur. See Illust. under Monkey. 

STREPTOBACTERIA:  A so-called variety of bacterium, consisting in reality of several bacteria linked together in the form of a chain. 

STREPTOCOCCUS:  A long or short chain of micrococci, more or less curved. 

STREPTONEURA:  An extensive division of gastropod Mollusca in which the loop or visceral nerves is twisted, and the sexes separate. It is nearly to equivalent to Prosobranchiata. 

STREPTOTHRIX:  A genus of bacilli occurring of the form of long, smooth and apparently branched threads, either straight or twisted. 

STRESS:  The force, or combination of forces, which produces a strain; force exerted in any direction or manner between contiguous bodies, or parts of bodies, and taking specific names according to its direction, or mode of action, as thrust or pressure, pull or tension, shear or tangential stress. Rankine. Stress is the mutual action between portions of matter. Clerk Maxwell.  4. (Pron.)  Force of utterance expended upon words or syllables. Stress is in English the chief element in accent and is one of the most important in emphasis. See Guide to pronunciation, §§ 31-35.  5. (Scots Law)  Distress; the act of distraining; also, the thing distrained. Stress of voice, unusual exertion of the voice.  -- Stress of weather, constraint imposed by continued bad weather; as, to be driven back to port by stress of weather.  -- To lay stress upon, to attach great importance to; to emphasize. "Consider how great a stress is laid upon this duty." Atterbury.  -- To put stress upon, or To put to a stress, to strain. 

STRESSFUL:  Having much stress. Rush. 

STRETCH:  To sail by the wind under press of canvas; as, the ship stretched to the eastward. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Stretch out, an order to rowers to extend themselves forward in dipping the oar. 

STRETCH:  The reach or extent of a vessel's progress on one tack; a tack or board.  5. Course; direction; as, the stretch of seams of coal. To be on the stretch, to be obliged to use one's utmost powers.  -- Home stretch. See under Home, a. 

STRETCHER:  A brick or stone laid with its longer dimension in the line of direction of the wall. Gwilt.  3. (Arch.)  A piece of timber used in building.  4. (Naut.) (a) A narrow crosspiece of the bottom of a boat against which a rower braces his feet. (b) A crosspiece placed between the sides of a boat to keep them apart when hoisted up and griped. Dana.  5. A litter, or frame, for carrying disabled, wounded, or dead persons.  6. An overstretching of the truth; a lie. [Slang]  7. One of the rods in an umbrella, attached at one end to one of the ribs, and at the other to the tube sliding upon the handle.  8. An instrument for stretching boots or gloves.  9. The frame upon which canvas is stretched for a painting. 

STRETCHING:  from Stretch, v. Stretching course (Masonry), a course or series of stretchers. See Stretcher, 2. Britton. 

STREWMENT:  Anything scattered, as flowers for decoration. [Obs.] Shak. 

STREWN:  p. p. of Strew. 

STRIA:  A fillet between the flutes of columns, pilasters, or the like. Oxf. Gloss. 

STRIATE:  To mark with striaæ. "Striated longitudinally." Owen.  STRIATE; STRIATED Stri"ate, Stri"a*ted, a. Etym: [L. striatus, p.p. of striare to furnish with channels, from stria a channel.]  Marked with striaæ, or fine grooves, or lines of color; showing narrow structural bands or lines; as, a striated crystal; striated muscular fiber. 

STRIATUM:  The corpus striatum. 

STRIATURE:  A stria. 

STRICH:  An owl. [Obs.] Spenser. 

STRICK:  A bunch of hackled flax prepared for drawing into slivers. Knight. 

STRICKLE:  An instrument used for smoothing the surface of a core.  4. (Carp. & Mason.)  A templet; a pattern.  5. An instrument used in dressing flax. [Prov. Eng.] 

STRICKLER:  See Strickle. 

STRICKLESS:  See Strickle. [Prov. Eng.] 

STRICT:  Upright, or straight and narrow; -- said of the shape of the plants or their flower clusters.  Syn.  -- Exact; accurate; nice; close; rigorous; severe.  -- Strict, Severe. Strict, applied to a person, denotes that he conforms in his motives and acts to a principle or code by which he is bound; severe is strict with an implication often, but not always, of harshness. Strict is opposed to lax; severe is opposed to gentle. And rules as strict his labored work confine, As if the Stagirite o'erlooked each line. Pope. Soon moved with touch of blame, thus Eve: -"What words have passed thy lips, Adam severe!" Milton. The Strict Observance, or Friars of the Strict Observance. (R. C. Ch.) See Observance. 

STRICTION:  The act of constricting, or the state of being constricted. Line of striction (Geom.), the line on a skew surface that cuts each generator in that point of it that is nearest to the succeeding generator. 

STRICTLY:  In a strict manner; closely; precisely. 

STRICTNESS:  Quality or state of being strict. 

STRICTURE:  A localized morbid contraction of any passage of the body. Cf. Organic stricture, and Spasmodic stricture, under Organic, and Spasmodic. Arbuthnot. 

STRICTURED:  Affected with a stricture; as, a strictured duct. 

STRID:  A narrow passage between precipitous rocks or banks, which looks as if it might be crossed at a stride. [Prov. Eng.] Howitt. This striding place is called the Strid. Wordsworth. 

STRIDE:  The act of stridding; a long step; the space measured by a long step; as, a masculine stride. Pope. God never meant that man should scale the heavens By strides of human wisdom. Cowper. 

STRIDENT:  Characterized by harshness; grating; shrill. "A strident voice." Thackeray. 

STRIDOR:  A harsh, shrill, or creaking noise. Dryden. 

STRIDULATE:  To make a shrill, creaking noise; specifically (Zoöl.),  to make a shrill or musical sound, such as is made by the males of many insects. 

STRIDULATION:  The act of stridulating. Specifically: (Zoöl.) (a) The act of making shrill sounds or musical notes by rubbing together certain hard parts, as is done by the males of many insects, especially by Orthoptera, such as crickets, grasshoppers, and locusts. (b) The noise itself.  Note: The crickets stridulate by rubbing together the strong nervures of the fore wings. Many grasshoppers stridulate by rubbing the hind legs across strong nervures on the fore wings. The green grasshoppers and katydids stridulate by means of special organs at the base of the fore wings. 

STRIDULATOR:  That which stridulates. Darwin. 

STRIDULATORY:  Stridulous; able to stridulate; used in stridulating; adapted for stridulation. Darwin. 

STRIDULOUS:  Making a shrill, creaking sound. Sir T. Browne. The Sarmatian boor driving his stridulous cart. Longfellow. Stridulous laryngitis (Med.), a form of croup, or laryngitis, in children, associated with dyspnoea, occurring usually at night, and marked by crowing or stridulous breathing. 

STRIFEFUL:  Contentious; discordant. The ape was strifeful and ambitious. Spenser. 

STRIGATE:  Having transverse bands of color. 

STRIGES:  The tribe of birds which comprises the owls. 

STRIGIL:  An instrument of metal, ivory, etc., used for scraping the skin at the bath. 

STRIGILLOSE:  Set with stiff, slender bristles. 

STRIGINE:  Of or pertaining to owls; owl-like. 

STRIGMENT:  Scraping; that which is scraped off. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

STRIGOSE:  Set with stiff, straight bristles; hispid; as, a strigose leaf. 

STRIGOUS:  Strigose. [R.] 

STRIKE:  To cut off, as a mortar joint, even with the face of the wall, or inward at a slight angle.  17. To hit upon, or light upon, suddenly; as, my eye struck a strange word; they soon struck the trail.  18. To borrow money of; to make a demand upon; as, he struck a friend for five dollars. [Slang]  19. To lade into a cooler, as a liquor. B. Edwards.  20. To stroke or pass lightly; to wave. Behold, I thought, He will . . . strike his hand over the place, and recover the leper. 2 Kings v. 11.  21. To advance; to cause to go forward; -- used only in past participle. "Well struck in years." Shak. To strike an attitude, To strike a balance. See under Attitude, and Balance.  -- To strike a jury (Law), to constitute a special jury ordered by a court, by each party striking out a certain number of names from a prepared list of jurors, so as to reduce it to the number of persons required by law. Burrill.  -- To strike a lead. (a) (Mining) To find a vein of ore. (b) Fig.: To find a way to fortune. [Colloq.] -- To strike a ledger, or an account, to balance it.  -- To strike hands with. (a) To shake hands with. Halliwell. (b) To make a compact or agreement with; to agree with.  -- To strike off. (a) To erase from an account; to deduct; as, to strike off the interest of a debt. (b) (Print.) To impress; to print; as, to strike off a thousand copies of a book. (c) To separate by a blow or any sudden action; as, to strike off what is superfluous or corrupt.  -- To strike oil, to find petroleum when boring for it; figuratively, to make a lucky hit financially. [Slang, U.S.] -- To strike one luck, to shake hands with one and wish good luck. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  -- To strike out. (a) To produce by collision; to force out, as, to strike out sparks with steel. (b) To blot out; to efface; to erase. "To methodize is as necessary as to strike out." Pope. (c) To form by a quick effort; to devise; to invent; to contrive, as, to strike out a new plan of finance. (d) (Baseball) To cause a player to strike out; -- said of the pitcher. See To strike out, under Strike, v. i.  -- To strike sail. See under Sail.  -- To strike up. (a) To cause to sound; to begin to beat. "Strike up the drums." Shak. (b) To begin to sing or play; as, to strike up a tune. (c) To raise (as sheet metal), in making diahes, pans, etc., by blows or pressure in a die.  -- To strike work, to quit work; to go on a strike. 

STRIKE:  To move; to advance; to proceed; to take a course; as, to strike into the fields. A mouse . . . struck forth sternly [bodily]. Piers Plowman.  2. To deliver a quick blow or thrust; to give blows. And fiercely took his trenchant blade in hand, With which he stroke so furious and so fell. Spenser. Strike now, or else the iron cools. Shak.  3. To hit; to collide; to dush; to clash; as, a hammer strikes against the bell of a clock.  4. To sound by percussion, with blows, or as with blows; to be struck; as, the clock strikes. A deep sound strikes like a rising knell. Byron.  5. To make an attack; to aim a blow. A puny subject strikes At thy great glory. Shak. Struck for throne, and striking found his doom. Tennyson.  6. To touch; to act by appulse. Hinder light but from striking on it [porphyry], and its colors vanish. Locke.  7. To run upon a rock or bank; to be stranded; as, the ship struck in the night.  8. To pass with a quick or strong effect; to dart; to penetrate. Till a dart strike through his liver. Prov. vii. 23. Now and then a glittering beam of wit or passion strikes through the obscurity of the poem. Dryden.  9. To break forth; to commence suddenly; -- with into; as, to strike into reputation; to strike into a run.  10. To lower a flag, or colors, in token of respect, or to signify a surrender of a ship to an enemy. That the English ships of war should not strike in the Danish seas. Bp. Burnet.  11. To quit work in order to compel an increase, or prevent a reduction, of wages.  12. To become attached to something; -- said of the spat of oysters.  13. To steal money. [Old Slang, Eng.] Nares. To strike at, to aim a blow at.  -- To strike for, to start suddenly on a course for.  -- To strike home, to give a blow which reaches its object, to strike with effect.  -- To strike in. (a) To enter suddenly. (b) To disappear from the surface, with internal effects, as an eruptive disease. (c) To come in suddenly; to interpose; to interrupt. "I proposed the embassy of Constantinople for Mr. Henshaw, but my Lord Winchelsea struck in." Evelyn. (d) To join in after another has begun,as in singing.  -- To strike in with, to conform to; to suit itself to; to side with, to join with at once. "To assert this is to strike in with the known enemies of God's grace." South. To strike out. (a) To start; to wander; to make a sudden excursion; as, to strike out into an irregular course of life. (b) To strike with full force. (c) (Baseball) To be put out for not hitting the ball during one's turn at the bat.  -- To strike up, to commence to play as a musician; to begin to sound, as an instrument. "Whilst any trump did sound, or drum struck up." Shak. 

STRIKE:  A puddler's stirrer.  9. (Geol.)  The horizontal direction of the outcropping edges of tilted rocks; or, the direction of a horizontal line supposed to be drawn on the surface of a tilted stratum. It is at right angles to the dip.  10. The extortion of money, or the attempt to extort money, by threat of injury; blackmailing. Strike block (Carp.), a plane shorter than a jointer, used for fitting a short joint. Moxon.  -- Strike of flax, a handful that may be hackled at once. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer.  -- Strike of sugar. (Sugar Making) (a) The act of emptying the teache, or last boiler, in which the cane juice is exposed to heat, into the coolers. (b) The quantity of the sirup thus emptied at once. 

STRIKING:  a. & n. from Strike, v. Striking distance, the distance through which an object can be reached by striking; the distance at which a force is effective when directed to a particular object.  -- Striking plate. (a) The plate against which the latch of a door lock strikes as the door is closed. (b) A part of the centering of an arch, which is driven back to loosen the centering in striking it. 

STRIKING:  Affecting with strong emotions; surprising; forcible; impressive; very noticeable; as, a striking representation or image; a striking resemblance. "A striking fact." De Quincey.  -- Strik"ing*ly, adv.  -- Strik"ing*ness, n. 

STRIKLE:  See Strickle. 

STRING:  An inside range of ceiling planks, corresponding to the sheer strake on the outside and bolted to it.  9. (Bot.)  The tough fibrous substance that unites the valves of the pericap of leguminous plants, and which is readily pulled off; as, the strings of beans.  10. (Mining)  A small, filamentous ramification of a metallic vein. Ure.  11. (Arch.)  Same as Stringcourse.  12. (Billiards)  The points made in a game. String band (Mus.), a band of musicians using only, or chiefly, stringed instruments.  -- String beans. (a) A dish prepared from the unripe pods of several kinds of beans; -- so called because the strings are stripped off. (b) Any kind of beans in which the pods are used for cooking before the seeds are ripe; usually, the low bush bean.  -- To have two strings to one's bow, to have a means or expedient in reserve in case the one employed fails. 

STRINGBOARD:  Same as Stringpiece. 

STRINGCOURSE:  A horizontal band in a building, forming a part of the design, whether molded, projecting, or carved, or in any way distinguished from the rest of the work. 

STRINGENCY:  The quality or state of being stringent. 

STRINGENDO:  Urging or hastening the time, as to a climax. 

STRINGENT:  Binding strongly; making strict requirements; restrictive; rigid; severe; as, stringent rules. They must be subject to a sharper penal code, and to a more stringent code of procedure. Macaulay. -- Strin"gent*ly, adv.  -- Strin"gent*ness, n. 

STRINGER:  A longitudinal sleeper.  4. (Shipbuilding)  A streak of planking carried round the inside of a vessel on the under side of the beams.  5. (Carp.)  A long horizontal timber to connect uprights in a frame, or to support a floor or the like. 

STRINGHALT:  An habitual sudden twitching of the hinder leg of a horse, or an involuntary or convulsive contraction of the muscles that raise the hock. [Written also springhalt.] 

STRINGINESS:  Quality of being stringy. 

STRINGLESS:  Having no strings. His tongue is now a stringless instrument. Shak. 

STRIP:  To dismantle; as, to strip a ship of rigging, spars, etc.  4. (Agric.)  To pare off the surface of, as land, in strips.  5. To deprive of all milk; to milk dry; to draw the last milk from; hence, to milk with a peculiar movement of the hand on the teats at the last of a milking; as, to strip a cow.  6. To pass; to get clear of; to outstrip. [Obs.] When first they stripped the Malean promontory. Chapman. Before he reached it he was out of breath, And then the other stripped him. Beau. & Fl.  7. To pull or tear off, as a covering; to remove; to wrest away; as, to strip the skin from a beast; to strip the bark from a tree; to strip the clothes from a man's back; to strip away all disguisses. To strip bad habits from a corrupted heart, is stripping off the skin. Gilpin.  8. (Mach.) (a) To tear off (the thread) from a bolt or nut; as, the thread is stripped. (b) To tear off the thread from (a bolt or nut); as, the bolt is stripped.  9. To remove the metal coating from (a plated article), as by acids or electrolytic action.  10. (Carding)  To remove fiber, flock, or lint from; -- said of the teeth of a card when it becomes partly clogged.  11. To pick the cured leaves from the stalks of (tobacco) and tie them into "hands"; to remove the midrib from (tobacco leaves). 

STRIP:  To fail in the thread; to lose the thread, as a bolt, screw, or nut. See Strip, v. t., 8. 

STRIP:  A trough for washing ore.  3. (Gunnery)  The issuing of a projectile from a rifled gun without acquiring the spiral motion. Farrow. 

STRIPE:  A pattern produced by arranging the warp threads in sets of alternating colors, or in sets presenting some other contrast of appearance.  3. A strip, or long, narrow piece attached to something of a different color; as, a red or blue stripe sewed upon a garment.  4. A stroke or blow made with a whip, rod, scourge, or the like, such as usually leaves a mark. Forty stripes he may give him, and not exceed. Deut. xxv. 3.  5. A long, narrow discoloration of the skin made by the blow of a lash, rod, or the like. Cruelty marked him with inglorious stripes. Thomson.  6. Color indicating a party or faction; hence, distinguishing characteristic; sign; likeness; sort; as, persons of the same political stripe. [Colloq. U.S.]  7. pl. (Mil.)  The chevron on the coat of a noncommissioned officer. Stars and Stripes. See under Star, n. 

STRIPED:  Having stripes of different colors; streaked. Striped bass. (Zoöl.) See under Bass.  -- Striped maple (Bot.), a slender American tree (Acer Pennsylvanicum) with finely striped bark. Called also striped dogwood, and moosewood.  -- Striped mullet. (Zoöl.) See under Mullet, 2.  -- Striped snake (Zoöl.), the garter snake.  -- Striped squirrel (Zoöl.), the chipmunk.  STRIP-LEAF Strip"-leaf`, n.  Tobacco which has been stripped of its stalks before packing. 

STRIPLING:  A youth in the state of adolescence, or just passing from boyhood to manhood; a lad. Inquire thou whose son the stripling is. 1 Sam. xvii. 56. 

STRIPPER:  One who, or that which, strips; specifically, a machine for stripping cards. 

STRIPPET:  A small stream. [Obs.] "A little brook or strippet." Holinshed. 

STRIPPING:  The last milk drawn from a cow at a milking. 

STRISORES:  A division of passerine birds including the humming birds, swifts, and goatsuckers. It is now generally considered an artificial group. 

STRIVED:  Striven. Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel. Rom. xv. 20. 

STRIVEN:  p. p. of Strive. 

STRIVER:  One who strives. 

STRIVING:  from Strive.  -- Striv"ing*ly, adv. 

STRIX:  One of the flutings of a column. 

STROBILATION:  The act or phenomenon of spontaneously dividing transversely, as do certain species of annelids and helminths; transverse fission. See Illust. under Syllidian. 

STROBILE:  A scaly multiple fruit resulting from the ripening of an ament in certain plants, as the hop or pine; a cone. See Cone, n., 3.  2. (Biol.)  An individual asexually producing sexual individuals differing from itself also in other respects, as the tapeworm, -- one of the forms that occur in metagenesis.  3. (Zoöl.)  Same as Strobila. 

STROBILIFORM:  Shaped like a strobile. 

STROBILINE:  Of or pertaining to a strobile; strobilaceous; strobiliform; as, strobiline fruits. 

STROCKLE:  A shovel with a turned-up edge, for frit, sand, etc. [Written also strocal, strocle, strokal.] 

STRODE:  See Strude. [Obs.] 

STRODE:  imp. of Stride. 

STROKE:  Struck. 

STROKE:  The movement, in either direction, of the piston plunger, piston rod, crosshead, etc., as of a steam engine or a pump, in which these parts have a reciprocating motion; as, the forward stroke of a piston; also, the entire distance passed through, as by a piston, in such a movement; as, the piston is at half stroke.  Note: The respective strokes are distinguished as up and down strokes, outward and inward strokes, forward and back strokes, the forward stroke in stationary steam engines being toward the crosshead, but in locomotives toward the front of the vehicle.  12. Power; influence. [Obs.] "Where money beareth [hath] all the stroke." Robynson (More's Utopia). He has a great stroke with the reader. Dryden.  13. Appetite. [Obs.] Swift. To keep stroke, to make strokes in unison. The oars where silver, Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke. Shak. 

STROKE:  To give a finely fluted surface to.  5. To row the stroke oar of; as, to stroke a boat. 

STROKER:  One who strokes; also, one who pretends to cure by stroking. Cures worked by Greatrix the stroker. Bp. Warburton. 

STROKESMAN:  The man who rows the aftermost oar, and whose stroke is to be followed by the rest. Totten. 

STROKING:  The act of laying small gathers in cloth in regular order.  3. pl.  See Stripping, 2. Smollett. 

STROLL:  To wander on foot; to ramble idly or leisurely; to rove. These mothers stroll to beg sustenance for their helpless infants. Swift.  Syn.  -- To rove; roam; range; stray. 

STROLL:  A wandering on foot; an idle and leisurely walk; a ramble. 

STROLLER:  One who strolls; a vagrant. 

STROMA:  A layer or mass of cellular tissue, especially that part of the thallus of certain fungi which incloses the perithecia. 

STROMATIC:  Miscellaneous; composed of different kinds. 

STROMATOLOGY:  The history of the formation of stratified rocks. 

STROMB:  Any marine univalve mollusk of the genus Strombus and allied genera. See Conch, and Strombus. 

STROMBITE:  A fossil shell of the genus Strombus. 

STROMBOID:  Of, pertaining to, or like, Strombus. 

STROMBULIFORM:  Formed or shaped like a top.  2. (Bot.)  Coiled into the shape of a screw or a helix. 

STROMBUS:  A genus of marine gastropods in which the shell has the outer lip dilated into a broad wing. It includes many large and handsome species commonly called conch shells, or conchs. See Conch. 

STROMEYERITE:  A steel-gray mineral of metallic luster. It is a sulphide of silver and copper. 

STROND:  Strand; beach. [Obs.] Shak. 

STRONG:  Tending to higher prices; rising; as, a strong market.  19. (Gram.) (a) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) by a variation in the root vowel, and the past participle (usually) by the addition of -en (with or without a change of the root vowel); as in the verbs strive, strove, striven; break, broke, broken; drink, drank, drunk. Opposed to weak, or regular. See Weak. (b) Applied to forms in Anglo-Saxon, etc., which retain the old declensional endings. In the Teutonic languages the vowel stems have held the original endings most firmly, and are called strong; the stems in -n are called weak other constant stems conform, or are irregular. F. A. March. Strong conjugation (Gram.), the conjugation of a strong verb; -- called also old, or irregular, conjugation, and distinguished from the weak, or regular, conjugation.  Note: Strong is often used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, strong-backed, strong-based, strong-bodied, strong- colored, strong-fisted, strong-handed, strong-ribbed, strong- smelling, strong-voiced, etc.  Syn.  -- Vigorous; powerful; stout; solid; firm; hardy; muscular; forcible; cogent; valid. See Robust. 

STRONGHAND:  Violence; force; power. It was their meaning to take what they needed by stronghand. Sir W. Raleigh. 

STRONGHOLD:  A fastness; a fort or fortress; fortfield place; a place of security. 

STRONGISH:  Somewhat strong. 

STRONGLY:  In a strong manner; so as to be strong in action or in resistance; with strength; with great force; forcibly; powerfully; firmly; vehemently; as, a town strongly fortified; he objected strongly.  STRONG-MINDED Strong"-mind`ed, a.  Having a vigorous mind; esp., having or affecting masculine qualities of mind; -- said of women.  -- Strong"-mind`ed*ness, n.  STRONG-WATER Strong"-wa`ter, n.  1. An acid. [Obs.]  2. Distilled or ardent spirits; intoxicating liquor. 

STRONGYLID:  Strongyloid. 

STRONGYLOID:  Like, or pertaining to, Strongylus, a genus of parasitic nematode worms of which many species infest domestic animals. Some of the species, especially those living in the kidneys, lungs, and bronchial tubes, are often very injurious.  -- n.  A strongyloid worm. 

STRONTIA:  An earth of a white color resembling lime in appearance, and baryta in many of its properties. It is an oxide of the metal strontium. 

STRONTIAN:  Strontia. 

STRONTIANITE:  Strontium carbonate, a mineral of a white, greenish, or yellowish color, usually occurring in fibrous massive forms, but sometimes in prismatic crystals. 

STRONTIC:  Of or pertaining to strontium; containing, or designating the compounds of, strontium. 

STRONTITIC:  Strontic. 

STRONTIUM:  A metallic element of the calcium group, always naturally occurring combined, as in the minerals strontianite, celestite, etc. It is isolated as a yellowish metal, somewhat malleable but harder than calcium. It is chiefly employed (as in the nitrate) to color pyrotechnic flames red. Symbol Sr. Atomic weight 87.3. A radioactive isotope of strontium produced by certain nuclear reactions, and constituting one of the prominent harmful components of radioactive fallout from nuclear explosions; also called radiostrontium. It has a half-life of 28 years. 

STROOK:  imp. of Strike. Dryden. 

STROOK:  A stroke. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STROOT:  To swell out; to strut. [Obs.] Chapman. 

STROP:  A strap; specifically, same as Strap, 3. 

STROP:  To draw over, or rub upon, a strop with a view to sharpen; as, to strop a razor. 

STROP:  A piece of rope spliced into a circular wreath, and put round a block for hanging it. 

STROPHANTHUS:  A genus of tropical apocynaceous shrubs having singularly twisted flowers. One species (Strophanthus hispidus) is used medicinally as a cardiac sedative and stimulant. 

STROPHE:  In Greek choruses and dances, the movement of the chorus while turning from the right to the left of the orchestra; hence, the strain, or part of the choral ode, sung during this movement. Also sometimes used of a stanza of modern verse. See the Note under Antistrophe. 

STROPHIC:  Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, strophes.  STROPHIOLATE; STROPHIOLATED Stro"phi*o*late, Stro"phi*o*la`ted, a. (Bot.)  Furnished with a strophiole, or caruncle, or that which resembles it. Gray. 

STROPHIOLE:  A crestlike excrescence about the hilum of certain seeds; a caruncle. 

STROPHULUS:  See Red-gum, 1. 

STROUD:  A kind of coarse blanket or garment used by the North American Indians. 

STROUDING:  Material for strouds; a kind of coarse cloth used in trade with the North American Indians. 

STROUT:  To swell; to puff out; to project. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STROUT:  To cause to project or swell out; to enlarge affectedly; to strut. [Obs.] Bacon. 

STROVE:  imp. of Strive. 

STROW:  Same as Strew. Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks In Vallombrosa. Milton. A manner turbid . . . and strown with blemished. M. Arnold. 

STROWL:  To stroll. [Obs.] 

STROWN:  p. p. of Strow. 

STROY:  To destroy. [Obs.] Tusser. 

STRUCK:  imp. & p. p. of Strike. Struck jury (Law), a special jury, composed of persons having special knowledge or qualifications, selected by striking from the panel of jurors a certain number for each party, leaving the number required by law to try the cause. 

STRUCKEN:  p. p. of Strike. Shak. 

STRUCTURAL:  Of or pertaining to organit structure; as, a structural element or cell; the structural peculiarities of an animal or a plant. Structural formula. (Chem.) See Rational formula, under Formula. empirical formula.  STRUCTURAL SHAPE Struc"tur*al shape. (Engin. & Arch.)  The shape of a member especially adapted to structural purposes, esp. in giving the greatest strength with the least material. Hence, Colloq.,  any steel or iron member of such shape, as channel irons, I beams, T beams, etc., or, sometimes, a column, girder, etc., built up with such members.  STRUCTURAL STEEL Structural steel.  (a) Rolled steel in structural shapes.  (b)  A kind of strong mild steel, suitable for structural shapes. 

STRUCTURE:  Manner of organization; the arrangement of the different tissues or parts of animal and vegetable organisms; as, organic structure, or the structure of animals and plants; cellular structure.  5. That which is built; a building; esp., a building of some size or magnificence; an edifice. There stands a structure of majestic frame. Pope. Columnar structure. See under Columnar. 

STRUCTURED:  Having a definite organic structure; showing differentiation of parts. The passage from a structureless state to a structured state is itself a vital process. H. Spencer. 

STRUCTURELESS:  Without a definite structure, or arrangement of parts; without organization; devoid of cells; homogeneous; as, a structureless membrane. 

STRUCTURIST:  One who forms structures; a builder; a constructor. [R.] 

STRUDE:  A stock of breeding mares. [Written also strode.] [Obs.] Bailey. 

STRUGGLER:  One who struggles. 

STRULL:  A bar so placed as to resist weight. 

STRUM:  To play on an instrument of music, or as on an instrument, in an unskillful or noisy way; to thrum; as, to strum a piano. 

STRUMA:  Scrofula.  2. (Bot.)  A cushionlike swelling on any organ; especially, that at the base of the capsule in many mosses. 

STRUMATIC:  Scrofulous; strumous. 

STRUMOSE:  Strumous.  2. (Bot.)  Having a struma. 

STRUMOUS:  Scrofulous; having struma. 

STRUMOUSNESS:  The state of being strumous. 

STRUMPET:  A prostitute; a harlot. Shak. 

STRUMPET:  Of or pertaining to a strumpet; characteristic of a strumpet. Out on thy more than strumpet impudence. B. Jonson. 

STRUMSTRUM:  A rude musical instrument somewhat like a cittern. [R.] Dampier. 

STRUNG:  imp. & p. p. of String. 

STRUNT:  Spirituous liquor. [Scot.] Burns. 

STRUNTIAN:  A kind of worsted braid, about an inch broad. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

STRUSE:  A Russian river craft used for transporting freight. 

STRUT:  In general, any piece of a frame which resists thrust or pressure in the direction of its own length. See Brace, and Illust. of Frame, and Roof.  3. (Engin.)  Any part of a machine or structure, of which the principal function is to hold things apart; a brace subjected to compressive stress; -- the opposite of stay, and tie. 

STRUT:  To hold apart. Cf. Strut, n., 3. 

STRUT:  Protuberant. [Obs.] Holland. 

STRUTHIAN:  Struthious. 

STRUTHIO:  A genus of birds including the African ostriches. 

STRUTHIOIDEA:  Same as Struthiones. 

STRUTHIONINE:  Struthious. 

STRUTHIOUS:  Of or pertaining to the Struthiones, or Ostrich tribe. 

STRUTTER:  One who struts. 

STRUTTING:  from Strut, v.  -- Strut"ting*ly, adv. 

STRUVITE:  A crystalline mineral found in guano. It is a hydrous phosphate of magnesia and ammonia. 

STRYCHNIA:  Strychnine. 

STRYCHNIC:  Of or pertaining to strychnine; produced by strychnine; as, strychnic compounds; strychnic poisoning; specifically (Chem.),  used to designate an acid, called also igasuric acid. 

STRYCHNINE:  A very poisonous alkaloid resembling brucine, obtained from various species of plants, especially from species of Loganiaceæ, as from the seeds of the St. Ignatius bean (Strychnos Ignatia) and from nux vomica. It is obtained as a white crystalline substance, having a very bitter acrid taste, and is employed in medicine (chiefly in the form of the sulphate) as a powerful neurotic stimulant. Called also strychnia, and formerly strychnina. 

STRYCHNOS:  A genus of tropical trees and shrubs of the order Loganiaceæ. See Nux vomica. 

STRYPHNIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid, obtained by the action of acetic acid and potassium nitrite on uric acid, as a yellow crystalline substance, with a bitter, astringent taste. 

STUBBEDNESS:  The quality or state of being stubbed. 

STUBBINESS:  The state of being stubby. 

STUBBLE:  The stumps of wheat, rye, barley, oats, or buckwheat, left in the ground; the part of the stalk left by the scythe or sickle. "After the first crop is off, they plow in the wheast stubble." Mortimer. Stubble goose (Zoöl.), the graylag goose. [Prov. Eng.] Chaucer.  -- Stubble rake, a rake with long teeth for gleaning in stubble. 

STUBBLY:  Covered with stubble; stubbled. 

STUBBORN:  Firm as a stub or stump; stiff; unbending; unyielding; persistent; hence, unreasonably obstinate in will or opinion; not yielding to reason or persuasion; refractory; harsh; -- said of persons and things; as, stubborn wills; stubborn ore; a stubborn oak; as stubborn as a mule. "Bow, stubborn knees." Shak. "Stubborn attention and more than common application." Locke. "Stubborn Stoics." Swift. And I was young and full of ragerie [wantonness] Stubborn and strong, and jolly as a pie. Chaucer. These heretics be so stiff and stubborn. Sir T. More. Your stubborn usage of the pope. Shak.  Syn.  -- Obstinate; inflexible; obdurate; headstrong; stiff; hardy; firm; refractory; intractable; rugged; contumacious; heady.  -- Stubborn, Obstinate. Obstinate is used of either active or passive persistence in one's views or conduct, in spite of the wishes of others. Stubborn describes an extreme degree of passive obstinacy.  -- Stub"born*ly, adv.  -- Stub"born*ness, n. 

STUCCO:  To overlay or decorate with stucco, or fine plaster. 

STUCCOER:  One who stuccoes. 

STUCCOWORK:  Work done in stucco. 

STUCK:  imp. & p. p. of Stick. 

STUCK:  A thrust. [Obs.] Shak. 

STUCKLE:  A number of sheaves set together in the field; a stook.  STUCK-UP Stuck"-up`, a.  Self-important and supercilious, [Colloq.] The airs of small, stuck-up, men. A. K. H. Boyd. 

STUD:  A collection of breeding horses and mares, or the place where they are kept; also, a number of horses kept for a racing, riding, etc. In the studs of Ireland, where care is taken, we see horses bred of excellent shape, vigor, and size. Sir W. Temple. He had the finest stud in England, and his delight was to win plates from Tories. Macaulay. 

STUD:  An upright scanting, esp. one of the small uprights in the framing for lath and plaster partitions, and furring, and upon which the laths are nailed.  3. A kind of nail with a large head, used chiefly for ornament; an ornamental knob; a boss. A belt of straw and ivy buds, With coral clasps and amber studs. Marlowe. Crystal and myrrhine cups, embossed with gems And studs of pearl. Milton.  4. An ornamental button of various forms, worn in a shirt front, collar, wristband, or the like, not sewed in place, but inserted through a buttonhole or eyelet, and transferable.  5. (Mach.) (a) A short rod or pin, fixed in and projecting from something, and sometimes forming a journal. (b) A stud bolt.  6. An iron brace across the shorter diameter of the link of a chain cable. Stud bolt, a bolt with threads on both ends, to be screwed permanently into a fixed part at one end and receive a nut upon the other; -- called also standing bolt. 

STUDBOOK:  A genealogical register of a particular breed or stud of horses, esp. thoroughbreds. 

STUDDERY:  A stud, or collection of breeding horses and mares; also, a place for keeping a stud. [Obs.] King Henry the Eighth erected a noble studdery. Holinshed. 

STUDDING:  Material for studs, or joists; studs, or joists, collectively; studs.  STUDDING SAIL Stud"ding sail`. (Naut.)  A light sail set at the side of a principal or square sail of a vessel in free winds, to increase her speed. Its head is bent to a small spar which is called the studding-sail boom. See Illust. of Sail. Toten. 

STUDENTRY:  A body of students. [R.] 

STUDENTSHIP:  The state of being a student. 

STUDFISH:  Any one of several species of small American minnows of the genus Fundulus, as F. catenatus.  STUD-HORSE Stud"-horse`, n. Etym: [AS. stod-hors.]  A stallion, esp. one kept for breeding. 

STUDIEDLY:  In a studied manner. 

STUDIER:  A student. [R.] W. Irving. Lipsius was a great studier of the stoical philosophy. Tillotson. 

STUDIO:  The working room of an artist. 

STUDY:  A representation or rendering of any object or scene intended, not for exhibition as an original work of art, but for the information, instruction, or assistance of the maker; as, a study of heads or of hands for a figure picture.  6. (Mus.)  A piece for special practice. See Etude. 

STUFA:  A jet of steam issuing from a fissure in the earth. 

STUFF:  A melted mass of turpentine, tallow, etc., with which the masts, sides, and bottom of a ship are smeared for lubrication. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  8. Paper stock ground ready for use.  Note: When partly ground, called half stuff. Knight. Clear stuff. See under Clear.  -- Small stuff (Naut.), all kinds of small cordage. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  -- Stuff gown, the distinctive garb of a junior barrister; hence, a junior barrister himself. See Silk gown, under Silk.stuff and nonsense. (See def. 6 for stuff) balderdash, twaddle, nonsense, foolishness. 

STUFF:  To fill with a seasoning composition of bread, meat, condiments, etc.; as, to stuff a turkey.  5. To obstruct, as any of the organs; to affect with some obstruction in the organs of sense or respiration. I'm stuffed, cousin; I can not smell. Shak.  6. To fill the skin of, for the purpose of preserving as a specimen; -- said of birds or other animals.  7. To form or fashion by packing with the necessary material. An Eastern king put a judge to death for an iniquitous sentence, and ordered his hide to be stuffed into a cushion, and placed upon the tribunal. Swift.  8. To crowd with facts; to cram the mind of; sometimes, to crowd or fill with false or idle tales or fancies.  9. To put fraudulent votes into (a ballot box). [U. S.] 

STUFF:  To feed gluttonously; to cram. Taught harmless man to cram and stuff. Swift. 

STUFFER:  One who, or that which, stuffs. 

STUFFINESS:  The quality of being stuffy. 

STUFFING:  Any seasoning preparation used to stuff meat; especially, a composition of bread, condiments, spices, etc.; forcemeat; dressing.  3. A mixture of oil and tallow used in softening and dressing leather. Stuffing box, a device for rendering a joint impervious where there is a hole through which a movable cylindrical body, as the paston rod of a steam engine, or the plunger of a pump, slides back and forth, or in which a shaft turns. It usually consists of a box or chamber, made by an enlargement of part of the hole, forming a space around the rod or shaft for containing packing which is compressed and made to fill the space closely by means of a sleeve, called the gland, which fits loosely around the rod, and is pressed upon the packing by bolts or other means. 

STUKE:  Stucco. [Obs.] 

STULL:  A framework of timber covered with boards to support rubbish; also, a framework of boards to protect miners from falling stones. [Prov. Eng.] 

STULM:  A shaft or gallery to drain a mine. [Local, Eng.] Bailey. 

STULP:  A short, stout post used for any purpose, a to mark a boundary. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

STULTIFICATION:  The act of stultifying, or the state of being stultified. 

STULTIFIER:  One who stultifies. 

STULTIFY:  To allege or prove to be of unsound mind, so that the performance of some act may be avoided. 

STULTILOQUENCE:  Silly talk; babbling. 

STULTILOQUENT:  Given to, or characterized by, silly talk; babbling.  -- Stul*til"o*quent*ly, adv. 

STULTILOQUY:  Foolish talk; silly discource; babbling. Jer. Taylor. 

STULTY:  Foolish; silly. [Obs.] Testament of Love. 

STUM:  To renew, as wine, by mixing must with it and raising a new fermentation. We stum our wines to renew their spirits. Floyer. 

STUMBLER:  One who stumbles.  STUMBLING-BLOCK Stum"bling-block`, n.  Any cause of stumbling, perplexity, or error. We preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling-block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. 1 Cor. i. 23. 

STUMBLINGLY:  In a stumbling manner.  STUMBLING-STONE Stum"bling-stone`, n.  A stumbling-block. This stumbling-stone we hope to take away. T. Burnet. 

STUMP:  The legs; as, to stir one's stumps. [Slang]  4. (Cricket)  One of the three pointed rods stuck in the ground to form a wicket and support the bails.  5. A short, thick roll of leather or paper, cut to a point, or any similar implement, used to rub down the lines of a crayon or pencil drawing, in shading it, or for shading drawings by producing tints and gradations from crayon, etc., in powder.  6. A pin in a tumbler lock which forms an obstruction to throwing the bolt, except when the gates of the tumblers are properly arranged, as by the key; a fence; also, a pin or projection in a lock to form a guide for a movable piece. Leg stump (Cricket), the stump nearest to the batsman.  -- Off stump (Cricket), the stump farthest from the batsman.  -- Stump tracery (Arch.), a term used to describe late German Gothic tracery, in which the molded bar seems to pass through itself in its convolutions, and is then cut off short, so that a section of the molding is seen at the end of each similar stump.  -- To go on the stump, or To take the stump, to engage in making public addresses for electioneering purposes; -- a phrase derived from the practice of using a stump for a speaker's platform in newly- settled districts. Hence also the phrases stump orator, stump speaker, stump speech, stump oratory, etc. [Colloq. U.S.] 

STUMP:  To walk clumsily, as if on stumps. To stump up, to pay cash. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

STUMPINESS:  The state of being stumpy.  STUMP-TAILED Stump"-tailed`, a.  Having a short, thick tail. Stump-tailed lizard (Zoöl.), a singular Australian scincoid lizard (Trachydosaurus rugosus) having a short, thick tail resembling its head in form; -- called also sleeping lizard. 

STUN:  The condition of being stunned. 

STUNDIST:  One of a large sect of Russian dissenters founded, about 1860, in the village of Osnova, near Odessa, by a peasant, Onishchenko, who had apparently been influenced by a German sect settled near there. They zealously practice Bible reading and reject priestly dominion and all external rites of worship. -- Stun"dism (#), n. 

STUNG:  imp. & p. p. of Sting. 

STUNK:  imp. & p. p. of Stink. 

STUNSAIL:  A contraction of Studding sail. With every rag set, stunsails, sky scrapers and all. Lowell. 

STUNT:  To hinder from growing to the natural size; to prevent the growth of; to stint, to dwarf; as, to stunt a child; to stunt a plant. When, by a cold penury, I blast the abilities of a nation, and stunt the growth of its active energies, the ill or may do is beyond all calculation. Burke. 

STUNTED:  Dwarfed.  -- Stunt"ed*ness, n. 

STUNTNESS:  Stuntedness; brevity. [R.] Earle. 

STUPA:  A mound or monument commemorative of Buddha. 

STUPA:  See 1st Stupe. 

STUPE:  Cloth or flax dipped in warm water or medicaments and applied to a hurt or sore. 

STUPE:  To foment with a stupe. Wiseman. 

STUPE:  A stupid person. [Obs.] 

STUPEFACIENT:  Producing stupefaction; stupefactive.  -- n. (Med.)  Anything promoting stupefaction; a narcotic. 

STUPEFACTION:  The act of stupefying, or the state of being stupefied. [Written also stupifaction.] Resistance of the dictates of conscience brings a hardness and stupefaction upon it. South. 

STUPEFACTIVE:  Same as Stupefacient. [Written also stupifactive.] 

STUPEFIED:  Having been made stupid. 

STUPEFIEDNESS:  Quality of being stupid. 

STUPEFIER:  One who, or that which, stupefies; a stupefying agent. 

STUPENDOUS:  Astonishing; wonderful; amazing; especially, astonishing in magnitude or elevation; as, a stupendous pile. "A stupendous sum." Macaulay. All are but parts of one stupendous whole. Pope. -- Stu*pen"dous*ly, adv.  -- Stu*pen"dous*ness, n. 

STUPEOUS:  Resembling tow; having long, loose scales, or matted filaments, like tow; stupose. 

STUPIFY:  See Stupefy. 

STUPOSE:  Composed of, or having, tufted or matted filaments like tow; stupeous. 

STUPRATE:  To ravish; to debauch. [R.] Heywood. 

STUPRATION:  Violation of chastity by force; rape. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

STUPRUM:  Stupration. 

STURB:  To disturb. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

STURDILY:  In a sturdy manner. 

STURDINESS:  Quality of being sturdy. 

STURDY:  A disease in sheep and cattle, marked by great nervousness, or by dullness and stupor. 

STURGEON:  Any one of numerous species of large cartilaginous ganoid fishes belonging to Acipenser and allied genera of the family Acipenseridæ. They run up rivers to spawn, and are common on the coasts and in the large rivers and lakes of North America, Europe, and Asia. Caviare is prepared from the roe, and isinglass from the air bladder.  Note: The common North American species are Acipenser sturio of the Atlantic coast region, A. transmontanus of the Pacific coast, and A. rubicundus of the Mississippi River and its tributaries. In Europe, the common species is Acipenser sturio, and other well-known species are the sterlet and the huso. The sturgeons are included in the order Chondrostei. Their body is partially covered by five rows of large, carinated, bony plates, of which one row runs along the back. The tail is heterocercal. The toothless and protrusile mouth is beneath the head, and has four barbels in front. Shovel-nosed sturgeon. (Zoöl.) See Shovelnose (d). 

STURIONES:  An order of fishes including the sturgeons. 

STURIONIAN:  One of the family of fishes of which the sturgeon is the type. 

STURK:  See Stirk. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

STURNOID:  Like or pertaining to the starlings. 

STURT:  To vex; to annoy; to startle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

STURT:  A bargain in tribute mining by which the tributor profits. Raymond. 

STURTION:  A corruption of Nasturtion. 

STUT:  To stutter. [Obs.] Skelton. 

STUTTER:  To hesitate or stumble in uttering words; to speak with spasmodic repetition or pauses; to stammer. Trembling, stuttering, calling for his confessor. Macaulay. 

STUTTERER:  One who stutters; a stammerer. 

STUTTERING:  The act of one who stutters; -- restricted by some physiologists to defective speech due to inability to form the proper sounds, the breathing being normal, as distinguished from stammering. 

STUTTERING:  Apt to stutter; hesitating; stammering.  -- Stut"ter*ing*ly, adv. 

STY:  To shut up in, or as in, a sty. Shak. 

STY:  To soar; to ascend; to mount. See Stirrup. [Obs.] With bolder wing shall dare aloft to sty, To the last praises of this Faery Queene. Spenser. 

STY:  An inflamed swelling or boil on the edge of the eyelid. [Written also stye.] 

STYAN:  See Sty, a boil. [R.] De quincey. 

STYCA:  An anglo-Saxon copper coin of the lowest value, being worth half a farthing. S. M. Leake. 

STYCERIN:  A triacid alcohol, related to glycerin, and obtained from certain styryl derivatives as a yellow, gummy, amorphous substance; - - called also phenyl glycerin. 

STYE:  See Sty, a boil. 

STYGIAL:  Stygian. [R.] Skelton. 

STYGIAN:  Of or pertaining to the river Styx; hence, hellish; infernal. See Styx. At that so sudden blaze, the Stygian throng Bent their aspect. Milton. 

STYLAGALMAIC:  Performing the office of columns; as, Atlantes and Caryatides are stylagalmaic figures or images. [Written also stylogalmaic.] 

STYLAR:  See Stilar. 

STYLASTER:  Any one of numerous species of delicate, usually pink, calcareous hydroid corals of the genus Stylaster. 

STYLE:  The pin, or gnomon, of a dial, the shadow of which indicates the hour. See Gnomon. (f) Etym: [Probably fr. Gr. (Bot.)  The elongated part of a pistil between the ovary and the stigma. See Illust. of Stamen, and of Pistil.  3. Mode of expressing thought in language, whether oral or written; especially, such use of language in the expression of thought as exhibits the spirit and faculty of an artist; choice or arrangement of words in discourse; rhetorical expression. High style, as when that men to kinges write. Chaucer. Style is the dress of thoughts. Chesterfield. Proper words in proper places make the true definition of style. Swift. It is style alone by which posterity will judge of a great work. I. Disraeli.  4. Mode of presentation, especially in music or any of the fine arts; a characteristic of peculiar mode of developing in idea or accomplishing a result. The ornamental style also possesses its own peculiar merit. Sir J. Reynolds.  5. Conformity to a recognized standard; manner which is deemed elegant and appropriate, especially in social demeanor; fashion. According to the usual style of dedications. C. Middleton.  6. Mode or phrase by which anything is formally designated; the title; the official designation of any important body; mode of address; as, the style of Majesty. One style to a gracious benefactor, another to a proud, insulting foe. Burke.  7. (Chron.)  A mode of reckoning time, with regard to the Julian and Gregorian calendars.  Note: Style is Old or New. The Old Style follows the Julian manner of computing the months and days, or the calendar as established by Julius Cæsar, in which every fourth year consists of 366 days, and the other years of 365 days. This is about 11 minutes in a year too much. Pope Georgy XIII. reformed the calendar by retrenching 10 days in October, 1582, in order to bring back the vernal equinox to the same day as at the time of the Council of Nice, A.D. 325. This reformation was adopted by act of the British Parliament in 1751, by which act 11 days in September, 1752, were retrenched, and the third day was reckoned the fourteenth. This mode of reckoning is called New Style, according to which every year divisible by 4, unless it is divisible by 100 without being divisible by 400, has 366 days, and any other year 365 days. Style of court, the practice or manner observed by a court in its proceedings. Ayliffe.  Syn.  -- Diction; phraseology; manner; course; title. See Diction. 

STYLE:  To entitle; to term, name, or call; to denominate. "Styled great conquerors." Milton. How well his worth and brave adventures styled. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To call; name; denominate; designate; term; characterize. 

STYLET:  A small poniard; a stiletto.  2. (Surg.) (a) An instrument for examining wounds and fistulas, and for passing setons, and the like; a probe, -- called also specillum. (b) A stiff wire, inserted in catheters or other tubular instruments to maintain their shape and prevent clogging.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any small, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ; as, the caudal stylets of certain insects; the ventral stylets of certain Infusoria. 

STYLIFEROUS:  Bearing one or more styles. 

STYLIFORM:  Having the form of, or resembling, a style, pin, or pen; styloid. 

STYLISH:  Having style or artistic quality; given to, or fond of, the display of style; highly fashionable; modish; as, a stylish dress, house, manner.  -- Styl"ish*ly, adv.  -- Styl"ish*ness, n. 

STYLIST:  One who is a master or a model of style, especially in writing or speaking; a critic of style. Distinguished as a stylist, for ease. Fitzed. Hall. 

STYLISTIC:  Of or pertaining to style in language. [R.] "Stylistic trifles." J. A. Symonds. The great stylistic differences in the works ascribed to him [Wyclif]. G. P. Marsh. 

STYLITE:  One of a sect of anchorites in the early church, who lived on the tops of pillars for the exercise of their patience; -- called also pillarist and pillar saint.  STYLO- Sty"lo-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the styloid process of the temporal bone; as, stylohyal, stylomastoid, stylomaxillary. 

STYLOBATE:  The uninterrupted and continuous flat band, coping, or pavement upon which the bases of a row of columns are supported. See Sub-base. 

STYLOGLOSSAL:  Of or pertaining to styloid process and the tongue. 

STYLOGRAPH:  A stylographic pen. 

STYLOGRAPHICAL:  Same as Stylographic, 1.  -- Sty`lo*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

STYLOGRAPHY:  A mode of writing or tracing lines by means of a style on cards or tablets. 

STYLOHYAL:  A segment in the hyoidean arch between the epihyal and tympanohyal. 

STYLOHYOID:  Of or pertaining to the styloid process and the hyoid bone. 

STYLOID:  Of or pertaining to the styloid process. Styloid process (Anat.), a long and slender process from the lower side of the temporal bone of man, corresponding to the tympanohyal and stylohyal of other animals. 

STYLOMASTOID:  Of or pertaining to the styloid and mastoid processes of the temporal bone. 

STYLOMAXILLARY:  Of or pertaining to the styloid process and the maxilla. 

STYLOMETER:  An instrument for measuring columns. 

STYLOMMATA:  Same as Stylommatophora. 

STYLOMMATOPHORA:  A division of Pulmonata in which the eyes are situated at the tips of the tentacles. It includes the common land snails and slugs. See Illust. under Snail. 

STYLOMMATOPHOROUS:  Of or pertaining to Stylommatophora. 

STYLOPODIUM:  An expansion at the base of the style, as in umbelliferous plants. 

STYLOPS:  A genus of minute insects parasitic, in their larval state, on bees and wasps. It is the typical genus of the group Strepsiptera, formerly considered a distinct order, but now generally referred to the Coleoptera. See Strepsiptera. 

STYLUS:  An instrument for writing. See Style, n., 1. That needle-shaped part at the tip of the playing arm of phonograph which sits in the groove of a phonograph record while it is turning, to detect the undulations in the phonograph groove and convert them into vibrations which are transmitted to a system (since 1920 electronic) which converts the signal into sound; also called needle. The stylus is frequently composed of metal or diamond. 3. The needle-like device used to cut the grooves which record the sound on the original disc during recording of a phonograph record. 4. (Computers)  A pen-shaped pointing device used to specify the cursor position on a graphics tablet.  STYMIE; STIMY Sty"mie, n. Also Sti"my. [Orig. uncertain.] (Golf)  The position of two balls on the putting green such that, being more than six inches apart, one ball lies directly between the other and the hole at which the latter must be played; also, the act of bringing the balls into this position.  STYMIE; STIMY Sty"mie, v. t. Also Sti"my. (Golf)  To bring into the position of, or impede by, a stymie. 

STYPHNATE:  A salt of styphnic acid. 

STYPHNIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a yellow crystalline astringent acid, (NO2)3.C6H.(OH)2, obtained by the action of nitric acid on resorcin. Styphnic acid resembles picric acid, but is not bitter. It acts like a strong dibasic acid, having a series of well defined salts. 

STYPTIC:  Producing contraction; stopping bleeding; having the quality of restraining hemorrhage when applied to the bleeding part; astringent. [Written also stiptic.] Styptic weed (Bot.), an American leguminous herb (Cassia occidentalis) closely related to the wild senna. 

STYPTIC:  A styptic medicine. 

STYPTICAL:  Styptic; astringent. 

STYPTICITY:  The quality or state of being styptic; astringency. 

STYRACIN:  A white crystalline tasteless substance extracted from gum storax, and consisting of a salt of cinnamic acid with cinnamic alcohol. 

STYRAX:  A genus of shrubs and trees, mostly American or Asiatic, abounding in resinous and aromatic substances. Styrax officinalis yields storax, and S. Benzoin yields benzoin.  2. Same as Storax. 

STYROL:  See Styrolene. 

STYROLENE:  An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C8H8, obtained by the distillation of storax, by the decomposition of cinnamic acid, and by the condensation of acetylene, as a fragrant, aromatic, mobile liquid; -- called also phenyl ethylene, vinyl benzene, styrol, styrene, and cinnamene. 

STYRONE:  A white crystalline substance having a sweet taste and a hyacinthlike odor, obtained by the decomposition of styracin; -- properly called cinnamic, or styryl, alcohol. 

STYRYL:  A hypothetical radical found in certain derivatives of styrolene and cinnamic acid; -- called also cinnyl, or cinnamyl. 

STYTHE:  Choke damp. 

STYTHY:  See Stithy. 

STYX:  The principal river of the lower world, which had to be crossed in passing to the regions of the dead. 

SUABILITY:  Liability to be sued; the state of being subjected by law to civil process. 

SUABLE:  Capable of being sued; subject by law to be called to answer in court. Story. 

SUADE:  To persuade. [Obs.] 

SUADIBLE:  Suasible. [Obs.] Wyclif (James iii. 17). 

SUAGE:  To assuage. [Obs.] Dryden. 

SUANT:  Spread equally over the surface; uniform; even. [Written also suent.] [Local, U.S. & Prov. Eng.] -- Su"ant*ly, adv. [Local, U.S. & Prov. Eng.] 

SUASIBLE:  Capable of being persuaded; easily persuaded. 

SUASION:  The act of persuading; persuasion; as, moral suasion. 

SUASIVE:  Having power to persuade; persuasive; suasory. South. "Genial and suasive satire." Earle.  -- Sua"sive*ly, adv. 

SUASORY:  Tending to persuade; suasive. 

SUAVE:  Sweet; pleasant; delightful; gracious or agreeable in manner; bland.  -- Suave"ly, adv. 

SUAVIFY:  To make affable or suave. 

SUAVILOQUENT:  Sweetly speaking; using agreeable speech. [R.] 

SUAVILOQUY:  Sweetness of speech. [R.] 

SUAVITY:  A prefix denoting that the ingredient (of a compound) signified by the term to which it is prefixed,is present in only a small proportion, or less than the normal amount; as, subsulphide, suboxide, etc. Prefixed to the name of a salt it is equivalent to basic; as, subacetate or basic acetate. [Obsoles.] 

SUB:  A subordinate; a subaltern. [Colloq.] 

SUBACETATE:  An acetate containing an excess of the basic constituent. 

SUBACID:  Moderately acid or sour; as, some plants have subacid juices.  -- n.  A substance moderately acid. 

SUBACRID:  Moderalely acrid or harsh. 

SUBACROMIAL:  Situated beneath the acromial process of the scapula. 

SUBACT:  To reduce; to subdue. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SUBACTION:  The act of reducing to any state, as of mixing two bodies combletely. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SUBACUTE:  Moderalely acute. 

SUBADUNCATE:  Somewhat hooked or curved. 

SUBADVOCATE:  An under or subordinate advocate. 

SUBAERIAL:  Beneath the sky; in the open air; specifically (Geol.), taking place on the earth's surface, as opposed to subaqueous. 

SUBAGENCY:  A subordinate agency. 

SUBAGENT:  A person employed by an agent to transact the whole, or a part, of the business intrusted to the latter. Bouvier. Chitty. 

SUBAGITATION:  Unlawful sexual intercourse. [Obs.] 

SUBAH:  A province; a government, as of a viceroy; also, a subahdar. [India] 

SUBAHDAR:  A viceroy; a governor of a subah; also, a native captain in the British native army. [India]  SUBAHDARY; SUBAHSHIP Su"bah*dar`y, Su"bah*ship, n.  The office or jurisdiction of a subahdar. 

SUBAID:  To aid secretly; to assist in a private manner, or indirectly. [R.] Daniel. 

SUBALMONER:  An under almoner. 

SUBALPINE:  Inhabiting the somewhat high slopes and summits of mountains, but considerably below the snow line. 

SUBALTERN:  Asserting only a part of what is asserted in a related proposition. Subaltern genus. (Logic) See under Genus. 

SUBALTERN:  A subaltern proposition. Whately. 

SUBALTERNANT:  A universal proposition. See Subaltern, 2. Whately. 

SUBALTERNATE:  A particular proposition, as opposed to a universal one. See Subaltern, 2. 

SUBALTERNATING:  Subalternate; successive. 

SUBALTERNATION:  The state of being subalternate; succession of turns; subordination. 

SUBANGULAR:  Slightly angular. 

SUBAPENNINE:  Under, or at the foot of, the Apennine mountains; -- applied, in geology, to a series of Tertiary strata of the older Pliocene period. 

SUBAPICAL:  Being under the apex; of or pertaining to the part just below the apex. 

SUBAQUANEOUS:  Subaqueous. [Obs.]  SUBAQUATIC; SUBAQUEOUS Sub`a*quat"ic, Sub*a"que*ous, a.  1. Being under water, or beneath the surface of water; adapted for use under water; submarine; as, a subaqueous helmet.  2. (Geol.)  Formed in or under water; as, subaqueous deposits.  SUBARACHNOID; SUBARACHNOIDAL Sub`a*rach"noid, Sub*ar`ach*noid"al, a. (Anat.)  Situated under the arachnoid membrane. 

SUBARCTIC:  Approximately arctic; belonging to a region just without the arctic circle.  SUBARCUATE; SUBARCUATED Sub*ar"cu*ate, Sub*ar"cu*a`ted, a.  Having a figure resembling that of a bow; somewhat curved or arched. 

SUBARRATION:  The ancient custom of betrothing by the bestowal, on the part of the man, of marriage gifts or tokens, as money, rings, or other presents, upon the woman. 

SUBARYTENOID:  Situated under the arytenoid cartilage of the larynx. 

SUBASTRAL:  Beneath the stars or heavens; terrestrial. Bp. Warburton. 

SUBASTRINGENT:  Somewhat astringent. 

SUBATOM:  A hypothetical component of a chemical atom, on the theory that the elements themselves are complex substances; -- called also atomicule. 

SUBAUD:  To understand or supply in an ellipsis. [R.] 

SUBAUDITION:  The act of understanding, or supplying, something not expressed; also, that which is so understood or supplied. Trench. 

SUBAXILLARY:  Situated under the axilla, or armpit.  2. (Bot.)  Placed under the axil, or angle formed by the branch of a plant with the stem, or a leaf with the branch. 

SUBBASAL:  Near the base.  SUB-BASE Sub"-base`, n. (Arch.)  The lowest member of a base when divided horizontally, or of a baseboard, pedestal, or the like.  SUB-BASS Sub"-bass`, n. (Mus.)  The deepest pedal stop, or the lowest tones of an organ; the fundamental or ground bass. [Written also sub-base.] Ayliffe. 

SUBBEADLE:  An under beadle. 

SUBBRACHIAL:  Of or pertaining to the subbrachians. 

SUBBRACHIALES:  A division of soft-finned fishes in which the ventral fins are situated beneath the pectorial fins, or nearly so. 

SUBBRACHIAN:  One of the Subbrachiales. 

SUBBREED:  A race or strain differing in certain characters from the parent breed; an incipient breed. 

SUBBRONCHIAL:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the bronchi; as, the subbronchial air sacs of birds. 

SUBCALIBER:  Smaller than the caliber of a firearm. [Written also subcalibre.] Subcaliber projectile, a projectile having a smaller diameter than the caliber of the arm from which it is fired, and to which it is fitted by means of a sabot. Knight. 

SUBCARBONATE:  A carbonate containing an excess of the basic constituent. 

SUBCARBONIFEROUS:  Of or pertaining to the lowest division of the Carboniferous formations underlying the proper coal measures. It was a marine formation characterized in general by beds of limestone.  -- n.  The Subcarboniferous period or formation. 

SUBCARBURETED:  United with, or containing, carbon in less than the normal proportion. [Written also subcarburetted.] [Obsoles.] 

SUBCAUDAL:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the tail; as, the subcaudal, or chevron, bones. 

SUBCELESTIAL:  Being beneath the heavens; as, subcelestial glories. Barrow. 

SUBCELLAR:  A cellar beneath another story wholly or partly underground; usually, a cellar under a cellar. 

SUBCHANTER:  An underchanter; a precentor's deputy in a cathedral; a succentor. 

SUBCIRCULAR:  Nearly circular. 

SUBCLASS:  One of the natural groups, more important than an order, into which some classes are divided; as, the angiospermous subclass of exogens. 

SUBCLAVIAN:  Situated under the clavicle, or collar bone; as, the subclavian arteries. 

SUBCOLUMNAR:  Having an imperfect or interrupted columnar structure. 

SUBCOMMITTEE:  An under committee; a part or division of a committee. Yet by their sequestrators and subcommittees abroad . . . those orders were commonly disobeyed. Milton. 

SUBCOMPRESSED:  Not fully compressed; partially or somewhat compressed. 

SUBCONCAVE:  Slightly concave. Owen. 

SUBCONFORMABLE:  Partially conformable. 

SUBCONICAL:  Slightly conical. 

SUBCONJUNCTIVAL:  Situated under the conjunctiva. 

SUBCONSCIOUSNESS:  The state or quality of being subconscious; a state of mind in which perception and other mental processes occur without distinct consciousness. 

SUBCONSTELLATION:  A subordinate constellation. Sir T. Browne. 

SUBCONTRACT:  A contract under, or subordinate to, a previous contract. 

SUBCONTRACTOR:  One who takes a portion of a contract, as for work, from the principal contractor. 

SUBCONTRARY:  Having, or being in, a contrary order; -- said of a section of an oblique cone having a circular base made by a plane not parallel to the base, but so inclined to the axis that the section is a circle; applied also to two similar triangles when so placed as to have a common angle at the vertex, the opposite sides not being parallel. Brande & C.  3. (Logic)  Denoting the relation of opposition between the particular affirmative and particular negative. Of these both may be true and only one can be false. 

SUBCONTRARY:  A subcontrary proposition; a proposition inferior or contrary in a lower degree. 

SUBCORACOID:  Situated under the coracoid process of the scapula; as, the subcoracoid dislocation of the humerus. 

SUBCORDATE:  Somewhat cordate; somewhat like a heart in shape. 

SUBCOSTAL:  Situated below the costas, or ribs; as, the subcostal muscles.  Note: The subcostal muscles are distinct from, and within, the intercostal. 

SUBCOSTAL:  A subcostal muscle.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the principal nervures of the wings of an insect. It is situated next beneath or behind the costal. See Nervure. 

SUBCRANIAL:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the cranium; facial. 

SUBCRUSTACEOUS:  Occurring beneath a crust or scab; as, a subcrustaceous cicatrization. 

SUBCRYSTALLINE:  Imperfectly crystallized.  SUBCULTRATE; SUBCULTRATED Sub*cul"trate, Sub*cul"tra*ted, a. (Zoöl.)  Having a form resembling that of a colter, or straight on one side and curved on the other. 

SUBCUTANEOUS:  Situated under the skin; hypodermic.  -- Sub`cu*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv. Subcutaneous operation (Surg.), an operation performed without opening that part of the skin opposite to, or over, the internal section. 

SUBCUTICULAR:  Situated under the cuticle, or scarfskin.  SUBCYLINDRICAL; SUBCYLINDRIC Sub`cy*lin"dric*al, Sub`cy*lin"dric, a.  Imperfectly cylindrical; approximately cylindrical. 

SUBDEACON:  One belonging to an order in the Roman Catholic Church, next interior to the order of deacons; also, a member of a minor order in the Greek Church.  SUBDEACONRY; SUBDEACONSHIP Sub*dea"con*ry, Sub*dea"con*ship, n. (Eccl.)  The order or office of subdeacon. 

SUBDEAN:  An under dean; the deputy or substitute of a dean. Ayliffe. 

SUBDEANERY:  Office or rank of subdean. 

SUBDECANAL:  Of or pertaining to a subdean or subdeanery. 

SUBDECUPLE:  Containing one part of ten. 

SUBDELEGATE:  A subordinate delegate, or one with inferior powers. 

SUBDELEGATE:  To appoint to act as subdelegate, or as a subordinate; to depete. 

SUBDENTED:  Indented beneath. 

SUBDEPARTMENT:  A subordinate department; a bureau. See the Note under Bureau. 

SUBDEPOSIT:  That which is deposited beneath something else. 

SUBDERISORIOUS:  Ridiculing with moderation. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

SUBDERIVATIVE:  A word derived from a derivative, and not directly from the root; as, "friendliness" is a subderivative, being derived from "friendly", which is in turn a derivative from "friend." 

SUBDIACONATE:  Of or pertaining to a subdeacon, or to the office or rank of a subdeacon. 

SUBDIACONATE:  The office or rank of a subdeacon. 

SUBDIAL:  Of or pertaining to the open air; being under the open sky. [R.] N. Bacon. 

SUBDIALECT:  A subordinate dialect. 

SUBDICHOTOMY:  A subordinate, or inferior, division into parts; a subdivision. [R.] Many subdichatomies of petty schisms. Milton. 

SUBDILATED:  Partially dilated. 

SUBDITITIOUS:  Put secretly in the place of something else; foisted in. [R.] 

SUBDIVERSIFY:  To diversify aggain what is already diversified. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

SUBDIVIDE:  To divide the parts of (anything) into more parts; to part into smaller divisions; to divide again, as what has already been divided. The progenies of Cham and Japhet swarmed into colonies, and those colonies were subdivided into many others. Dryden. 

SUBDIVIDE:  To be, or to become, subdivided. 

SUBDIVINE:  Partaking of divinity; divine in a partial or lower degree. Bp. Hall. 

SUBDIVISIBLE:  Susceptible of subdivision. 

SUBDOLOUS:  Sly; crafty; cunning; artful. [R.] 

SUBDOMINANT:  The fourth tone above, or fifth below, the tonic; -- so called as being under the dominant. 

SUBDUABLE:  Able to be subdued. 

SUBDUAL:  Act of subduing. Bp. Warburton.  SUBDUCE; SUBDUCT Sub*duce", Sub*duct", v. t. Etym: [L. subducere, subductum; sub under + ducere to lead, to draw. See Duke, and cf. Subdue.]  1. To withdraw; to take away. Milton.  2. To subtract by arithmetical operation; to deduct. If, out of that infinite multitude of antecedent generations, we should subduce ten. Sir M. Hale. 

SUBDUEMENT:  Subdual. [Obs.] Shak. 

SUBDUER:  One who, or that which, subdues; a conqueror. Spenser. 

SUBDULCID:  Somewhat sweet; sweetish. [R.] 

SUBDUPLE:  Indicating one part of two; in the ratio of one to two. Subduple ratio, the ratio of 1 to 2: thus, 3:6 is a subduple ratio, as 6:3 is a duple ratio. 

SUBDUPLICATE:  Expressed by the square root; -- said of ratios. Subduplicate ratio, the ratio of the square roots, or the square root of a ratio; thus, the subduplicate ratio of a to b is *a to *b, or *a/b. 

SUBDURAL:  Situated under the dura mater, or between the dura mater and the arachnoid membrane. 

SUBEDITOR:  An assistant editor, as of a periodical or journal. 

SUBELONGATE:  Not fully elongated; somewhat elongated. 

SUBENDOCARDIAL:  Situated under the endocardium. 

SUBENDYMAL:  Situated under the endyma. 

SUBEPIDERMAL:  Situated immediately below the epidermis. 

SUBEPIGLOTTIC:  Situated under the epiglottis. 

SUBEPITHELIAL:  Situated under the epithelium. 

SUBEQUAL:  Nearly equal. 

SUBERATE:  A salt of suberic acid. 

SUBEREOUS:  Of or pertaining to cork; of the nature of cork; suberose. 

SUBERIC:  Of or pertaining to cork; specifically, designating an acid, C 

SUBERIN:  A material found in the cell walls of cork. It is a modification of lignin. 

SUBERITE:  Any sponge of the genus Suberites and allied genera. These sponges have a fine and compact texture, and contain minute siliceous spicules. 

SUBERIZATION:  Conversion of the cell walls into cork tissue by development of suberin; -- commonly taking place in exposed tissues, as when a callus forms over a wound. Suberized cell walls are impervious to water. 

SUBERIZE:  To effect suberization of. 

SUBERONE:  Having a corky texture. 

SUBESOPHAGEAL:  Situated beneath the esophagus. [Written also suboesophageal.] Subesophageal ganglion (Zoöl.), a large special ganglion situated beneath the esophagus of arthropods, annelids, and some other invertebrates. 

SUBFAMILY:  One of the subdivisions, of more importance than genus, into which certain families are divided. 

SUBFIBROUS:  Somewhat fibrous. 

SUBFUSCOUS:  Duskish; moderately dark; brownish; tawny. 

SUBFUSK:  Subfuscous. [Obs.] Tatler. 

SUBGELATINOUS:  Imperfectly or partially gelatinous. 

SUBGENERIC:  Of or pertaining to a subgenus. 

SUBGENUS:  A subdivision of a genus, comprising one or more species which differ from other species of the genus in some important character or characters; as, the azaleas now constitute a subgenus of Rhododendron. 

SUBGLACIAL:  Pertaining or belonging to the under side of a glacier; being beneath a glacier; as, subglacial streams. 

SUBGLOBOSE:  Not quite globose. 

SUBGLOBULAR:  Nearly globular. 

SUBGLOSSAL:  Situated under the tongue; sublingual. 

SUBGLOTTIC:  Situated below the glottis; -- applied to that part of the cavity of the larynx below the true vocal cords. 

SUBGLUMACEOUS:  Somewhat glumaceous. 

SUBGOVERNOR:  A subordinate or assistant governor. 

SUBGRANULAR:  Somewhat granular. 

SUBGROUP:  A subdivision of a group, as of animals. Darwin. 

SUBHASTATION:  A public sale or auction. [R.] Bp. Burnet. 

SUBHEPATIC:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the liver; -- applied to the interlobular branches of the portal vein. 

SUBHORNBLENDIC:  Containing hornblende in a scattered state; of or relating to rocks containing disseminated hornblende. 

SUBHUMERATE:  To place the shoulders under; to bear. [Obs.] Nothing surer ties a friend than freely to subhumerate the burden which was his. Feltham. 

SUBHYALOID:  Situated under the hyaliod membrane. 

SUBHYOIDEAN:  Situated or performed beneath the hyoid bone; as, subhyoidean laryngotomy. 

SUBIMAGO:  A stage in the development of certain insects, such as the May flies, intermediate between the pupa and imago. In this stage, the insect is able to fly, but subsequently sheds a skin before becoming mature. Called also pseudimago. 

SUBINCUSATION:  A slight charge or accusation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SUBINDEX:  A number or mark placed opposite the lower part of a letter or symbol to distinguish the symbol; thus, a0, b1, c2, xn, have 0, 1, 2, and n as subindices. 

SUBINDICATE:  To indicate by signs or hints; to indicate imperfectly. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

SUBINDICATION:  The act of indicating by signs; a slight indication. [R.] "The subindication and shadowing of heavenly things." Barrow. 

SUBINDIVIDUAL:  A division of that which is individual. An individual can not branch itself into subindividuals. Milton. 

SUBINDUCE:  To insinuate; to offer indirectly. [Obs.] Sir E. Dering. 

SUBINFER:  To infer from an inference already made. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SUBINGRESSION:  Secret entrance. [R.] Boyle. 

SUBINTESTINAL:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the intestine. 

SUBINVOLUTION:  Partial or incomplete involution; as, subinvolution of the uterus. 

SUBITANEOUS:  Sudden; hasty. [Obs.] Bullokar.  -- Sub`i*ta"ne*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] 

SUBITANY:  Subitaneous; sudden; hasty. [Obs.] Hales. 

SUBITO:  In haste; quickly; rapidly. 

SUBJECT:  That of which anything is affirmed or predicated; the theme of a proposition or discourse; that which is spoken of; as, the nominative case is the subject of the verb. The subject of a proposition is that concerning which anything is affirmed or denied. I. Watts.  7. That in which any quality, attribute, or relation, whether spiritual or material, inheres, or to which any of these appertain; substance; substratum. That which manifests its qualities -- in other words, that in which the appearing causes inhere, that to which they belong -- is called their subject or substance, or substratum. Sir W. Hamilton.  8. Hence, that substance or being which is conscious of its own operations; the mind; the thinking agent or principal; the ego. Cf. Object, n., 2. The philosophers of mind have, in a manner, usurped and appropriated this expression to themselves. Accordingly, in their hands, the phrases conscious or thinking subject, and subject, mean precisely the same thing. Sir W. Hamilton.  9. (Mus.)  The principal theme, or leading thought or phrase, on which a composition or a movement is based. The earliest known form of subject is the ecclesiastical cantus firmus, or plain song. Rockstro.  10. (Fine Arts)  The incident, scene, figure, group, etc., which it is the aim of the artist to represent. 

SUBJECTIST:  One skilled in subjective philosophy; a subjectivist. 

SUBJECTIVE:  Modified by, or making prominent, the individuality of a writer or an artist; as, a subjective drama or painting; a subjective writer.  Syn.  -- See Objective. Subjective sensation (Physiol.), one of the sensations occurring when stimuli due to internal causes excite the nervous apparatus of the sense organs, as when a person imagines he sees figures which have no objective reality.  -- Sub*jec"tive*ly, adv.  -- Sub*jec"tive*ness, n. 

SUBJECTIVISM:  Any philosophical doctrine which refers all knowledge to, and founds it upon, any subjective states; egoism. 

SUBJECTIVIST:  One who holds to subjectivism; an egoist. 

SUBJECTIVITY:  The quality or state of being subjective; character of the subject. 

SUBJECTLESS:  Having no subject.  SUBJECT-MATTER Sub"ject-mat`ter, n.  The matter or thought presented for consideration in some statement or discussion; that which is made the object of thought or study. As to the subject-matter, words are always to be understood as having a regard thereto. Blackstone. As science makes progress in any subject-matter, poetry recedes from it. J. H. Newman. 

SUBJECTNESS:  Quality of being subject. [R.] 

SUBJICIBLE:  Capable of being subjected. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

SUBJOIN:  To add after something else has been said or written; to ANNEX; as, to subjoin an argument or reason.  Syn.  -- To add; annex; join; unite. 

SUBJOINDER:  An additional remark. [R.]  SUB JUDICE Sub ju"di*ce. Etym: [L.]  Before the judge, or court; not yet decided; under judicial consideration. 

SUBJUGATE:  To subdue, and bring under the yoke of power or dominion; to conquer by force, and compel to submit to the government or absolute control of another; to vanquish. He subjugated a king, and called him his "vassal." Baker.  Syn.  -- To conquer; subdue; overcome. See Conquer. 

SUBJUGATION:  The act of subjugating, or the state of being subjugated. 

SUBJUGATOR:  One who subjugates; a conqueror. 

SUBJUNCTIVE:  Subjoined or added to something before said or written. Subjunctive mood (Gram.), that form of a verb which express the action or state not as a fact, but only as a conception of the mind still contingent and dependent. It is commonly subjoined, or added as subordinate, to some other verb, and in English is often connected with it by if, that, though, lest, unless, except, until, etc., as in the following sentence: "If there were no honey, they [bees] would have no object in visiting the flower." Lubbock. In some languages, as in Latin and Greek, the subjunctive is often independent of any other verb, being used in wishes, commands, exhortations, etc. 

SUBJUNCTIVE:  The subjunctive mood; also, a verb in the subjunctive mood. 

SUBKINGDOM:  One of the several primary divisions of either the animal, or vegetable kingdom, as, in zoölogy, the Vertebrata, Tunicata, Mollusca, Articulata, Molluscoidea, Echinodermata, Coelentera, and the Protozoa; in botany, the Phanerogamia, and the Cryptogamia. 

SUBLAPSARIAN:  Same as Infralapsarian. 

SUBLAPSARIANISM:  Infralapsarianism. 

SUBLAPSARY:  Sublapsarian. Johnson. 

SUBLATE:  To take or carry away; to remove. [R.] E. Hall. 

SUBLATION:  The act of taking or carrying away; removal. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

SUBLATIVE:  Having power, or tending, to take away. [R.] Harris. 

SUBLEASE:  A lease by a tenant or lessee to another person; an underlease. Bouvier. 

SUBLESSEE:  A holder of a sublease. 

SUBLET:  To underlet; to lease, as when a lessee leases to another person. 

SUBLIBRARIAN:  An under or assistant librarian. 

SUBLIEUTENANT:  An inferior or second lieutenant; in the British service, a commissioned officer of the lowest rank. 

SUBLIGATION:  The act of binding underneath. [R.] 

SUBLIMABLE:  Capable of being sublimed or sublimated.  -- Sub*lim"a*ble*ness, n. Boyle. 

SUBLIMATE:  A product obtained by sublimation; hence, also, a purified product so obtained. Corrosive sublimate. (Chem.) See under Corrosive. 

SUBLIMATE:  Brought into a state of vapor by heat, and again condensed as a solid. 

SUBLIMATED:  Refined by, or as by, sublimation; exalted; purified. [Words] whose weight best suits a sublimated strain. Dryden. 

SUBLIMATION:  The act or process of subliming, or the state or result of being sublimed.  2. The act of heightening or improving; exaltation; elevation; purification.  3. That which is sublimed; the product of a purifying process. Religion is the perfection, refinement, and sublimation of morality. South. 

SUBLIMATORY:  Used for sublimation; as, sublimatory vessels. Boyle. 

SUBLIMATORY:  A vessel used for sublimation. Vials, crosslets, and sublimatories. Chaucer. 

SUBLIME:  That which is sublime; -- with the definite article; as: (a) A grand or lofty style in speaking or writing; a style that expresses lofty conceptions. The sublime rises from the nobleness of thoughts, the magnificence of words, or the harmonious and lively turn of the phrase. Addison.  (b) That which is grand in nature or art, as distinguished from the merely beautiful. 

SUBLIME:  To subject to the process of sublimation; to heat, volatilize, and condense in crystals or powder; to distill off, and condense in solid form; hence, also, to purify.  3. To exalt; to heighten; to improve; to purify. The sun . . . Which not alone the southern wit sublimes, But ripens spirits in cold, northern climes. Pope.  4. To dignify; to ennoble. An ordinary gift can not sublime a person to a supernatural employment. Jer. Taylor. 

SUBLIME:  To pass off in vapor, with immediate condensation; specifically, to evaporate or volatilize from the solid state without apparent melting; -- said of those substances, like arsenic, benzoic acid, etc., which do not exhibit a liquid form on heating, except under increased pressure. 

SUBLIMED:  Having been subjected to the process of sublimation; hence, also, purified. "Sublimed mercurie." Chaucer. 

SUBLIMELY:  In a sublime manner. 

SUBLIMENESS:  The quality or state of being sublime; sublimity. 

SUBLIMIFICATION:  The act of making sublime, or state of being made sublime. 

SUBLIMINAL:  Existing in the mind, but below the surface or threshold of consciousness; that is, existing as feeling rather than as clear ideas. 

SUBLINEATION:  A mark of a line or lines under a word in a sentence, or under another line; underlining. 

SUBLINGUA:  A process or fold below the tongue in some animals. 

SUBLITION:  The act or process of laying the ground in a painting. [R.] 

SUBLITTORAL:  Under the shore. Smart. 

SUBLOBULAR:  Situated under, or at the bases of, the lobules of the liver. 

SUBLUMBAR:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the lumbar region of the vertebral column.  SUBLUNAR; SUBLUNARY Sub*lu"nar, Sub"lu*na*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. sub + lunar, or lunary: cf. F. sublunaire.]  Situated beneath the moon; hence, of or pertaining to this world; terrestrial; earthly. All things sublunary are subject to change. Dryden. All sublunary comforts imitate the changeableness, as well as feel the influence, of the planet they are under. South. 

SUBLUNARY:  Any worldly thing. [Obs.] 

SUBLUXATION:  An incomplete or partial dislocation. 

SUBMAMMARY:  Situated under the mammæ; as, submammary inflammation. 

SUBMARINE:  Being, acting, or growing, under water in the sea; as, submarine navigators; submarine plants. Submarine armor, a waterproof dress of strong material, having a helmet into which air for breathing is pumped through a tube leading from above the surface to enable a diver to remain under water.  -- Submarine cable. See Telegraph cable, under Telegraph.  -- Submarine mine. See Torpedo, 2 (a). 

SUBMARINE:  A submarine plant or animal. 

SUBMARSHAL:  An under or deputy marshal. 

SUBMEDIAL:  Lying under the middle. 

SUBMEDIAN:  Next to the median (on either side); as, the submedian teeth of mollusks. 

SUBMEDIANT:  The sixth tone of the scale; the under mediant, or third below the keynote; the superdominant. 

SUBMENTAL:  Situated under the chin; as, the submental artery. 

SUBMENTUM:  The basal part of the labium of insects. It bears the mentum. 

SUBMERGE:  To plunge into water or other fluid; to be buried or covered, as by a fluid; to be merged; hence, to be completely included. Some say swallows submerge in ponds. Gent. Mag. 

SUBMERGENCE:  The act of submerging, or the state of being submerged; submersion. 

SUBMERSE:  Submersed. 

SUBMERSED:  Being or growing under water, as the leaves of aquatic plants. 

SUBMETALLIC:  Imperfectly metallic; as, a submetallic luster. 

SUBMINISTER:  To supply; to afford. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale. 

SUBMINISTER:  To be subservient; to be useful. [Obs.] "Our passions . . . subminister to the best and worst purposes." L'EStrange. 

SUBMINISTRANT:  Subordinate; subservient. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SUBMINISTRATE:  To supply; to afford; to subminister. [Obs.] Harvey. 

SUBMINISTRATION:  The act of subministering. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

SUBMISSION:  An agreement by which parties engage to submit any matter of controversy between them to the decision of arbitrators. Wharton (Law Dict.). Bouvier. 

SUBMISSLY:  In a submissive manner; with a submission. [Archaic] Jer. Taylor. 

SUBMISSNESS:  Submissiveness. [Obs.] 

SUBMITTER:  One who submits. Whitlock. 

SUBMONISH:  To suggest; to prompt. [R.] "The submonishing inclinations of my senses." T. Granger. 

SUBMONITION:  Suggestion; prompting. [R.] T. Granger. 

SUBMUCOUS:  Situated under a mucous membrane. 

SUBMULTIPLE:  A number or quality which is contained in another an exact number of times, or is an aliquot part of it; thus, 7 is the submultiple of 56, being contained in it eight times. 

SUBMULTIPLE:  Of or pertaining to a submultiple; being a submultiple; as, a submultiple number; submultiple ratio. 

SUBMUSCULAR:  Situated underneath a muscle or muscles. 

SUBNARCOTIC:  Moderately narcotic. 

SUBNASAL:  Situated under the nose; as, the subnasal point, or the middle point of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture. 

SUBNASCENT:  Growing underneath. [R.] Evelyn. 

SUBNECT:  To tie or fasten beneath; to join beneath. [R.] Pope. 

SUBNEX:  To subjoin; to subnect. [Obs.] Holland. 

SUBNORMAL:  That part of the axis of a curved line which is intercepted between the ordinate and the normal. 

SUBNOTATION:  A rescript. Bouvier. 

SUBNOTOCHORDAL:  Situated on the ventral side of the notochord; as, the subnotochordal rod. 

SUBNUVOLAR:  Under the clouds; attended or partly covered or obscured by clouds; somewhat cloudy. [R. & Poetic] Subnuvolar lights of evening sharply slant. Milnes. 

SUBOBSCURELY:  Somewhat obscurely or darkly. [R.] Donne. 

SUBOBTUSE:  Partially obtuse. 

SUBOCCIPITAL:  Situated under, or posterior to, the occiput; as, the suboccipital, or first cervical, nerve.  SUBOCTAVE; SUBOCTUPLE Sub*oc"tave, Sub*oc"tu*ple, a.  Containing one part of eight; having the ratio of one to eight. Bp. Wilkins. 

SUBOCULAR:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the eye. 

SUBOFFICER:  An under or subordinate officer. 

SUBOPERCULAR:  Situated below the operculum; pertaining to the suboperculum.  -- n.  The suboperculum. 

SUBOPERCULUM:  The lower opercular bone in fishes.  SUBORBICULAR; SUBORBICULATE Sub`or*bic"u*lar, Sub`or*bic"u*late, a.  Almost orbiculate or orbicular.  SUBORBITAL; SUBORBITAR Sub*or"bit*al, Sub*or"bit*ar, a. (Anat.)  Situated under or below the orbit. 

SUBORDER:  A division of an order; a group of genera of a little lower rank than an order and of greater importance than a tribe or family; as, cichoraceous plants form a suborder of Compositæ. 

SUBORDINACY:  The quality or state of being subordinate, or subject to control; subordination, as, to bring the imagination to act in subordinacy to reason. Spectator.  SUBORDINANCE; SUBORDINANCY Sub*or"di*nance, Sub*or"di*nan*cy, n. Etym: [Pref. sub + L. ordinans, p.pr. of ordinare. See Subordinate, a.]  Subordinacy; subordination. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. Sir W. Temple. 

SUBORDINARY:  One of several heraldic bearings somewhat less common than an ordinary. See Ordinary.  Note: Different writers name different bearings as subordinaries, but the bar, bend, sinister, pile, inescutcheon bordure, gyron, and quarter, are always considered subordinaries by those who do not class them as ordinaries. 

SUBORDINATE:  One who stands in order or rank below another; -- distinguished from a principal. Milton. 

SUBORDINATIVE:  Tending to subordinate; expressing subordination; used to introduce a subordinate sentence; as, a subordinative conjunction. 

SUBORN:  To procure or cause to take a false oath amounting to perjury, such oath being actually taken. Sir W. O. Russell.  2. To procure privately, or by collusion; to procure by indirect means; to incite secretly; to instigate. Thou art suborned against his honor. Shak. Those who by despair suborn their death. Dryden. 

SUBORNATION:  The act of suborning; the crime of procuring a person to take such a false oath as constitutes perjury. Blackstone.  2. The sin or offense of procuring one to do a criminal or bad action, as by bribes or persuasion. Foul subornation is predominant. Shak. The sort of chicanery attending the subornation of managers in the Leibnitz controversy. De Quinsey. 

SUBORNER:  One who suborns or procures another to take, a false oath; one who procures another to do a bad action. 

SUBOVAL:  Somewhat oval; nearly oval. 

SUBOVATE:  Nearly in the form of an egg, or of the section of an egg, but having the inferior extremity broadest; nearly ovate. 

SUBOVATED:  Subovate. [R.] 

SUBOXIDE:  An oxide containing a relatively small amount of oxygen, and less than the normal proportion; as, potassium suboxide, K4O. 

SUBPEDUNCULAR:  Situated beneath the peduncle; as, the subpeduncular lobe of the cerebellum. 

SUBPEDUNCULATE:  Supported on, or growing from, a very short stem; having a short peduncle. 

SUBPELLUCID:  Somewhat pellucid; nearly pellucid. 

SUBPENA:  See Subpoena. 

SUBPENTANGULAR:  Nearly or approximately pentangular; almost pentangular. 

SUBPERICARDIAL:  Situated under the cardiac pericardium. 

SUBPERIOSTEAL:  Situated under the periosteum. Subperiosteal operation (Surg.), a removal of bone effected without taking away the periosteum. 

SUBPERITONEAL:  Situated under the peritoneal membrane. 

SUBPETIOLAR:  Concealed within the base of the petiole, as the leaf buds of the plane tree. 

SUBPLEURAL:  Situated under the pleural membrane. 

SUBPODOPHYLLOUS:  Situated under the podophyllous tissue of the horse's foot. 

SUBPOENA:  A writ commanding the attendance in court, as a witness, of the person on whom it is served, under a penalty; the process by which a defendant in equity is commanded to appear and answer the plaintiff's bill. [Written also subpena.] Subpoena ad testificandum (. Etym: [NL.] A writ used to procure the attendance of a witness for the purpose of testifying.  -- Subpoena duces tecum (. Etym: [NL.] A writ which requires a witness to attend and bring certain documents. 

SUBPOENA:  To serve with a writ of subpoena; to command attendance in court by a legal writ, under a penalty in case of disobedience. 

SUBPOENAL:  Required or done under penalty. Gauden. 

SUBPOLAR:  Situated below the poles. 

SUBPOLYGONAL:  Approximately polygonal; somewhat or almost polygonal. 

SUBPREHENSILE:  Somewhat prehensile; prehensile in an inferior degree. 

SUBPRIOR:  The vicegerent of a prior; a claustral officer who assists the prior. 

SUBPUBIC:  Situated under, or posterior to, the pubic bones. 

SUBPULMONARY:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the lungs. 

SUBPURCHASER:  A purchaser who buys from a purchaser; one who buys at second hand. 

SUBPYRIFORM:  Somewhat pyriform. 

SUBQUADRATE:  Nearly or approximately square; almost square. 

SUBQUADRUPLE:  Containing one part of four; in the ratio of one to four; as, subquadruple proportion. Bp. Wilkins. 

SUBQUINQUEFID:  Almost quinquefid; nearly quinquefid. 

SUBQUINTUPLE:  Having the ratio of one to five; as, subquintuple proportion. Bp. Wilkins. 

SUBREADER:  An under reader in the inns of court, who reads the texts of law the reader is to discourse upon. [Eng.] Crabb. 

SUBRECTOR:  An assistant restor. [Eng.] 

SUBRELIGION:  A secondary religion; a belief or principle held in a quasi religious veneration. Loyalty is in the English a subreligion. Emerson. 

SUBREPTION:  The act of obtaining a favor by surprise, or by unfair representation through suppression or fraudulent concealment of facts. Bp. Hall. 

SUBREPTITIOUS:  Surreptitious. [Obs.] -- Sub`rep*ti"tious*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

SUBREPTIVE:  Surreptitious. [Obs.] 

SUBRIGID:  Somewhat rigid or stiff. 

SUBRIGUOUS:  Watered or wet beneath; well-watered. [Obs.] Blount. 

SUBROGATE:  To put in the place of another; to substitute. Barrow. 

SUBROGATION:  The act of subrogating. Specifically: (Law)  The substitution of one person in the place of another as a creditor, the new creditor succeeding to the rights of the former; the mode by which a third person who pays a creditor succeeds to his rights against the debtor. Bouvier. Burrill. Abbott. 

SUBROTUND:  Somewhat rotund. 

SUBSACRAL:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the sacrum. 

SUBSALINE:  Moderately saline or salt. 

SUBSALT:  A basic salt. See the Note under Salt. 

SUBSANNATION:  Derision; mockery. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.  SUBSCAPULAR; SUBSCAPULARY Sub*scap"u*lar, Sub*scap"u*la*ry, a. (Anat.)  Situated beneath the scapula; infrascapular; as, the subscapular muscle. 

SUBSCRIBABLE:  Capable of being subscribed. [R.] 

SUBSCRIPT:  Written below or underneath; as, iota subscript. (See under Iota.) Specifically (Math.), said of marks, figures, or letters (suffixes), written below and usually to the right of other letters to distinguish them; as, a, n, 2, in the symbols Xa, An, Y2. See Suffix, n., 2, and Subindex. 

SUBSCRIPT:  Anything written below. Bentley. 

SUBSCRIPTION:  The acceptance of articles, or other tests tending to promote uniformity; esp. (Ch. of Eng.), formal assent to the Thirty-nine Articles and the Book of Common Prayer, required before ordination.  4. Submission; obedience. [Obs.] You owe me no subscription. Shak.  5. (Pharm.)  That part of a prescription which contains the direction to the apothecary.  A method of purchasing items produced periodically in a series, as newspapers or magazines, in which a certain number of the items are delivered as produced, without need for ordering each item individually; also, the purchase thus executed.  Note: The right to attend a series of public performances of ballet, opera, or music are also often sold by subscription. The payment for a subscription may be made prior to delivery of any items (common with magazines and performances), or after a certain number of the items have been delivered (common with newspapers or works of art produced in a series). 7. An application to purchase a certain number of securities to be delivered when they are newly issued. 

SUBSCRIPTIVE:  Of or pertaining to a subscription, or signature. "The subscriptive part." Richardson.  -- Sub*scrip"tive*ly, adv. 

SUBSECUTE:  To follow closely, or so as to overtake; to pursue. [Obs.] To follow and detain him, if by any possibility he could be subsecuted and overtaken. E. Hall. 

SUBSECUTIVE:  Following in a train or succession. [R.] 

SUBSELLIUM:  One of the stalls of the lower range where there are two ranges. See Illust. of Stall. 

SUBSEMITONE:  The sensible or leading note, or sharp seventh, of any key; subtonic. 

SUBSENSIBLE:  Deeper than the reach of the senses. "That subsensible world." Tyndall. 

SUBSEPTUPLE:  Having the ratio of one to seven. Bp. Wilkins.  SUBSEQUENCE; SUBSEQUENCY Sub"se*quence, Sub"se*quen*cy, n.  The act or state of following; -- opposed to precedence. 

SUBSEQUENTLY:  At a later time; afterwards. 

SUBSEROUS:  Situated under a serous membrane. 

SUBSERVE:  To serve in subordination or instrumentally; to be subservient to; to help forward; to promote. It is a great credit to know the ways of captivating Nature, and making her subserve our purposes, than to have learned all the intrigues of policy. Glanvill. 

SUBSERVE:  To be subservient or subordinate; to serve in an inferior capacity. Not made to rule, But to subserve where wisdom bears command. Milton.  SUBSERVIENCE; SUBSERVIENCY Sub*serv"i*ence, Sub*serv"i*en*cy, n.  The quality or state of being subservient; instrumental fitness or use; hence, willingness to serve another's purposes; in a derogatory sense, servility. The body wherein appears much fitness, use, and subserviency to infinite functions. Bentley. There is a regular subordination and subserviency among all the parts to beneficial ends. Cheyne. 

SUBSERVIENT:  Fitted or disposed to subserve; useful in an inferior capacity; serving to promote some end; subordinate; hence, servile, truckling. Scarce ever reading anything which he did not make subservient in one kind or other. Bp. Fell. These ranks of creatures are subservient one to another. Ray. Their temporal ambition was wholly subservient to their proselytizing spirit. Burke. 

SUBSERVIENTLY:  In a subservient manner.  SUBSESQUI- Sub*ses"qui-. Etym: [Pref. sub- + sesqui-.] (Chem.)  A prefix (also used adjectively) denoting the combination of constituents (especially electro-negative and electro-positive bodies) in the proportion of two to three; as, a subsesqui acetate, i. e., a salt having two equivalents of acetic acid to three of the base. 

SUBSEXTUPLE:  Having the ratio of one to six; as, a subsextuple proportion. Bp. Wilkins. 

SUBSIDE:  The act or process of subsiding. The subdual or subsidence of the more violent passions. Bp. Warburton. 

SUBSIDIARILY:  In a subsidiary manner; so as to assist. 

SUBSIDIARY:  One who, or that which, contributes aid or additional supplies; an assistant; an auxiliary. Hammond. 

SUBSIDIZE:  To furnish with a subsidy; to purchase the assistance of by the payment of a subsidy; to aid or promote, as a private enterprise, with public money; as, to subsidize a steamship line. He employed the remittances from Spain to subsidize a large body of German mercenaries. Prescott. 

SUBSIGN:  To sign beneath; to subscribe. [R.] Camden. 

SUBSIGNATION:  The act of writing the name under something, as for attestation. [R.] Shelton. 

SUBSILICATE:  A basic silicate. 

SUBSIST:  To support with provisions; to feed; to maintain; as, to subsist one's family. He laid waste the adjacent country in order to render it more difficult for the enemy to subsist their army. Robertson. 

SUBSISTENCE:  Same as Hypostasis, 2. Hooker.  SUBSISTENCE DEPARTMENT Sub*sist"ence De*part"ment. (Mil.)  A staff department of the United States army charged, under the supervision of the Chief of Staff, with the purchasing and issuing to the army of such supplies as make up the  ration. It also supplies, for authorized sales, certain articles of food and other minor stores. It is commanded by any officer of the rank of brigadier general, called commissary general, and the department is popularly called the Commissary Department. 

SUBSISTENCY:  Subsistence. [R.] 

SUBSIZAR:  An under sizar; a student of lower rank than a sizar. [Cambridge Univ. Eng.] Bid my subsizar carry my hackney to the buttery and give him his bever. J. Fletcher. 

SUBSOIL:  The bed, or stratum, of earth which lies immediately beneath the surface soil. Subsoil plow, a plow having a share and standard but no moldboard. It follows in the furrow made by an ordinary plow, and loosens the soil to an additional depth without bringing it to the surface. Knight. 

SUBSOIL:  To turn up the subsoil of. 

SUBSOLARY:  Being under the sun; hence, terrestrial; earthly; mundane. [R.] 

SUBSPECIES:  A group somewhat lessdistinct than speciesusually are, but based on characters more important than those which characterize ordinary varieties; often, a geographical variety or race. 

SUBSPHENOIDAL:  Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the body of the sphenoid bone. 

SUBSPHERICAL:  Nearly spherical; having a figure resembling that of a sphere. 

SUBSTANCE:  Same as Hypostasis, 2. 

SUBSTANCE:  To furnish or endow with substance; to supply property to; to make rich. [Obs.] 

SUBSTANCELESS:  Having no substance; unsubstantial. [R.] Coleridge. 

SUBSTANT:  Substantial; firm. [R.] "[The glacier's] substant ice." The Century. 

SUBSTANTIALITY:  The quality or state of being substantial; corporiety; materiality. The soul is a stranger to such gross substantiality. Glanvill. 

SUBSTANTIALIZE:  To make substantial. 

SUBSTANTIALLY:  In a substantial manner; in substance; essentially. In him all his Father shone, Substantially expressed. Milton. The laws of this religion would make men, if they would truly observe them, substantially religious toward God, chastle, and temperate. Tillotson. 

SUBSTANTIALNESS:  The quality or state of being substantial; as, the substantialness of a wall or column. 

SUBSTANTIALS:  Essential parts. Ayliffe. 

SUBSTANTIATION:  The act of substantiating or proving; evidence; proof. 

SUBSTANTIVAL:  Of or pertaining to a substantive; of the nature of substantive.  -- Sub`stan*ti"val*ly, adv. 

SUBSTANTIVE:  A noun or name; the part of speech which designates something that exists, or some object of thought, either material or immaterial; as, the words man, horse, city, goodness, excellence, are substantives. 

SUBSTANTIVE:  To substantivize. [R.] Cudworth. 

SUBSTANTIVELY:  As a substantive, name, or noun; as, an adjective may be used substantively. 

SUBSTANTIVENESS:  The quality or state of being substantive. 

SUBSTANTIVIZE:  To convert into a substantive; as, to substantivize an adjective. Fitzed. Hall. 

SUBSTILE:  See Substyle. 

SUBSTITUENT:  Any atom, group, or radical substituted for another, or entering a molecule in place of some other part which is removed. 

SUBSTITUTE:  One who, or that which, is substituted or put in the place of another; one who acts for another; that which stands in lieu of something else; specifically (Mil.),  a person who enlists for military service in the place of a conscript or drafted man. Hast thou not made me here thy substitute Milton. Ladies [in Shakespeare's age] . . . wore masks as the sole substitute known to our ancestors for the modern parasol. De Quincey. 

SUBSTITUTE:  To put in the place of another person or thing; to exchange. Some few verses are inserted or substituted in the room of others. Congreve. 

SUBSTITUTED:  Containing substitutions or replacements; having been subjected to the process of substitution, or having some of its parts replaced; as, alcohol is a substituted water; methyl amine is a substituted ammonia. Substituted executor (Law), an executor appointed to act in place of one removed or resigned. 

SUBSTITUTION:  The designation of a person in a will to take a devise or legacy, either on failure of a former devisee or legatee by incapacity or unwillingness to accept, or after him. Burrill.  5. (Theol.)  The doctrine that Christ suffered vicariously, being substituted for the sinner, and that his sufferings were expiatory.  6. (Chem.)  The act or process of substituting an atom or radical for another atom or radical; metethesis; also, the state of being so substituted. See Metathesis. 

SUBSTITUTIONAL:  Of or pertaining to substitution; standing in the place of another; substituted.  -- Sub`sti*tu"tion*al*ly, adv. 

SUBSTITUTIONARY:  Of or pertaining to substitution; substitutional. 

SUBSTITUTIVE:  Tending to afford or furnish a substitute; making substitution; capable of being substituted. Bp. Wilkins. 

SUBSTRACT:  To subtract; to withdraw. [Obs.] Barrow. 

SUBSTRACTION:  See Subtraction, 3. 

SUBSTRATE:  A substratum. [R.] 

SUBSTRATE:  Having very slight furrows. [R.] 

SUBSTRATE:  To strew or lay under anything. [Obs.] The melted glass being supported by the substrated sand. Boyle. 

SUBSTRATUM:  The permanent subject of qualities or cause of phenomena; substance. 

SUBSTRUCT:  To build beneath something; to lay as the foundation. [R.] He substructs the religion of Asia as the base. Emerson. 

SUBSTRUCTION:  Underbuilding; the foundation, or any preliminary structure intended to raise the lower floor or basement of a building above the natural level of the ground. It is a magnificent strong building, with a substruction very remarkable. Evelyn. 

SUBSTRUCTURE:  Same as Substruction.  2. An under structure; a foundation; groundwork. 

SUBSTYLAR:  Pertaining to the substyle. 

SUBSTYLE:  A right line on which the style, or gnomon, of a dial is erected; being the common section of the face of the dial and a plane perpendicular to it passing through the style. [Written also substile.] Hutton. 

SUBSULPHATE:  A sulphate with an excess of the base. 

SUBSULPHIDE:  A nonacid compound consisting of one equivalent of sulphur and more than one equivalent of some other body, as a metal. 

SUBSULTIVE:  Subsultory. [R.] Berkley. 

SUBSULTORY:  Bounding; leaping; moving by sudden leaps or starts. [R.] -- Sub*sul"to*ri*ly, adv. [R.] Flippancy opposed to solemnity, the subsultory to the continuous, -- these are the two frequent extremities to which the French manner betrays men. De Quincey. 

SUBSULTUS:  A starting, twitching, or convulsive motion. 

SUBSUMABLE:  Capable of being subsumed. J. B. Stallo. 

SUBSUME:  To take up into or under, as individual under species, species under genus, or particular under universal; to place (any one cognition) under another as belonging to it; to include under something else. To subsume one proposition under another. De Quincey. A principle under which one might subsume men's most strenuous efforts after righteousness. W. Pater. 

SUBSUMPTIVE:  Relating to, or containing, a subsumption. Coleridge. 

SUBTANGENT:  The part of the axis contained between the ordinate and tangent drawn to the same point in a curve. 

SUBTARTAREAN:  Being or living under Tartarus; infernal. "Subtartarean powers." Pope. 

SUBTECTACLE:  A space under a roof; a tabernacle; a dwelling. [Obs.] Davies (Holy Roode). 

SUBTEGULANEOUS:  Under the roof or eaves; within doors. [R.] 

SUBTENANT:  One who rents a tenement, or land, etc., of one who is also a tenant; an undertenant. 

SUBTEND:  To extend under, or be opposed to; as, the line of a triangle which subtends the right angle; the chord subtends an arc. 

SUBTENSE:  A line subtending, or stretching across; a chord; as, the subtense of an arc. 

SUBTEPID:  Slightly tepid. 

SUBTERETE:  Somewhat terete.  SUBTERFLUENT; SUBTERFLUOUS Sub*ter"flu*ent, Sub*ter"flu*ous, a. Etym: [L. subterfluens, p.pr. of subterfluere to flow beneath; subter under + fluere to flow.]  Running under or beneath. [R.] 

SUBTERFUGE:  That to which one resorts for escape or concealment; an artifice employed to escape censure or the force of an argument, or to justify opinions or conduct; a shift; an evasion. Affect not little shifts and subterfuges, to avoid the force of an argument. I. Watts. By a miserable subterfuge, they hope to render this position safe by rendering it nugatory. Burke. 

SUBTERRANE:  A cave or room under ground. [R.] J. Bryant. 

SUBTERRANEAL:  Subterranean. [Obs.]  SUBTERRANEAN; SUBTERRANEOUS Sub`ter*ra"ne*an, Sub`ter*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. subterraneus; sub under + terra earth. See Terrace.]  Being or lying under the surface of the earth; situated within the earth, or under ground; as, subterranean springs; a subterraneous passage.  -- Sub`ter*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv. 

SUBTERRANITY:  A place under ground; a subterrany. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SUBTERRANY:  Subterranean. [Obs.] Bacon.  -- n.  A subterranean place. [Obs.] 

SUBTERRENE:  Subterraneous. [Obs.] 

SUBTERRESTRIAL:  Subterranean. 

SUBTHALAMIC:  Situated under the optic thalamus. 

SUBTILIATE:  To make thin or rare. [Obs.] Harvey.  -- Sub`til*i*a"tion, n. [Obs.] Boyle. 

SUBTILISM:  The quality or state of being subtile; subtility; subtlety. The high orthodox subtilism of Duns Scotus. Milman. 

SUBTILITY:  Subtilty. [R.] 

SUBTILIZATION:  The operation of making so volatile as to rise in steam or vapor.  3. Refinement; subtlety; extreme attenuation. 

SUBTILIZE:  To refine in argument; to make very nice distinctions. Milner. 

SUBTILIZER:  One who subtilizes. 

SUBTLENESS:  The quality or state of being subtle; subtlety. 

SUBTLY:  In a subtle manner; slyly; artfully; cunningly. Thou seest how subtly to detain thee I devise. Milton.  2. Nicely; delicately. In the nice bee what sense so subtly true. Pope. Subtly communicating itself to my sensibilities, but evading the analysis of my mind. Hawthorne.  3. Deceitfully; delusively. [Obs.] Shak. 

SUBTONIC:  Applied to, or distinguishing, a speech element consisting of tone, or proper vocal sound, not pure as in the vowels, but dimmed and otherwise modified by some kind of obstruction in the oral or the nasal passage, and in some cases with a mixture of breath sound; -- a term introduced by Dr. James Rush in 1833. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§155, 199-202. 

SUBTONIC:  A subtonic sound or element; a vocal consonant, as b, d, g, n, etc.; a subvocal.  2. (Mus.)  The seventh tone of the scale, or that immediately below the tonic; -- called also subsemitone. 

SUBTORRID:  Nearly torrid. 

SUBTRACT:  To withdraw, or take away, as a part from the whole; to deduct; as, subtract 5 from 9, and the remainder is 4. 

SUBTRACTION:  The taking of a lesser number or quantity from a greater of the same kind or denomination; an operation for finding the difference between two numbers or quantities.  3. (Law)  The withdrawing or withholding from a person of some right to which he is entitled by law.  Note: Thus the subtraction of conjugal rights is when either the husband or wife withdraws from the other and lives separate without sufficient reason. The subtraction of a legacy is the withholding or detailing of it from the legatee by the executor. In like manner, the withholding of any service, rent, duty, or custom, is a subtraction, for which the law gives a remedy. Blackstone. 

SUBTRACTIVE:  Having the negative sign, or sign minus. 

SUBTRAHEND:  The sum or number to be subtracted, or taken from another. 

SUBTRANSLUCENT:  Not perfectly translucent. 

SUBTRANSPARENT:  Not perfectly transparent. 

SUBTREASURER:  The public officer who has charge of a subtreasury. [U. S.] 

SUBTREASURY:  A subordinate treasury, or place of deposit; as, the United States subtreasury at New York. [U. S.] 

SUBTRIANGULAR:  Nearly, but not perfectly, triangular. Darwin. 

SUBTRIBE:  A division of a tribe; a group of genera of a little lower rank than a tribe. 

SUBTRIHEDRAL:  Approaching the form of a three-sided pyramid; as, the subtrihedral crown of a tooth. Owen. 

SUBTRIPLE:  Containing a third, or one part to three. Bp. Wilkins. 

SUBTRIPLICATE:  Expressed by the cube root; -- said especially of ratios. Subtriplicate ratio, the ratio of the cube root; thus, the subtriplicate ratio of a to b is cube roota to cube rootb, or cube roota/b. 

SUBTROPICAL:  Nearly tropical. 

SUBTRUDE:  To place under; to insert. [R.] 

SUBTURRICULATE:  Somewhat turriculate. 

SUBTUTOR:  An under tutor. 

SUBTYPICAL:  Deviating somewhat from the type of a species, genus, or other group; slightly aberrant.  SUBULATE; SUBULATED Su"bu*late, Su"bu*la`ted, a. Etym: [NL. subulatus, fr. L. subula an awl.]  Very narrow, and tapering gradually to a fine point from a broadish base; awl-shaped; linear. 

SUBULICORNES:  A division of insects having slender or subulate antennæ. The dragon flies and May flies are examples. 

SUBULIFORM:  Subulate. 

SUBULIPALP:  One of a group of carabid beetles having slender palpi. 

SUBUMBONAL:  Beneath or forward of the umbos of a bivalve shell. 

SUBUMBRELLA:  The integument of the under surface of the bell, or disk-shaped body, of a jellyfish. 

SUBUNDATION:  A flood; a deluge. [Obs.] Huloet. 

SUBUNGUAL:  Under the nail or hoof. 

SUBURBAN:  Of or pertaining to suburbs; inhabiting, or being in, the suburbs of a city. "Suburban taverns." Longfellow. Suburban villas, highway-side retreats, . . . Delight the citizen. Cowper. 

SUBURBAN:  One who dwells in the suburbs. 

SUBURBED:  Having a suburb or suburbs on its outer part.  SUBURBIAL; SUBURBIAN Sub*ur"bi*al, Sub*ur"bi*an, a.  Suburban. [Obs.] "Suburbial fields." Warton. "Suburbian muse." Dryden.  SUBURBICARIAN; SUBURBICARY Sub*ur`bi*ca"ri*an, Sub*ur"bi*ca*ry, a. Etym: [LL. suburbicarius, equiv. to L. suburbanus: cf. F. suburbicaire. See Suburban.]  Being in the suburbs; -- applied to the six dioceses in the suburbs of Rome subject to the pope as bishop of Rome. The pope having stretched his authority beyond the bounds of his suburbicarian precincts. Barrow. 

SUBURETHRAL:  Situated under the urethra, or under its orifice. 

SUBVAGINAL:  Situated under or inside a sheath or vaginal membrane; as, the subvaginal, or subdural, spaces about the optic nerve. 

SUBVARIETY:  A subordinate variety, or a division of a variety. 

SUBVENE:  To come under, as a support or stay; to happen. A future state must needs subvene to prevent the whole edifice from falling into ruin. Bp. Warburton. 

SUBVENTANEOUS:  Produced by the wind. [Obs.] 

SUBVENTION:  To subventionize. 

SUBVENTIONIZE:  To come to the aid of; to subsidize; to support. 

SUBVENTITIOUS:  Helping; aiding; supporting. Urquhart. 

SUBVERSE:  To subvert. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SUBVERSION:  The act of overturning, or the state of being overturned; entire overthrow; an overthrow from the foundation; utter ruin; destruction; as, the subversion of a government; the subversion of despotic power; the subversion of the constitution. The subversion [by a storm] of woods and timber . . . through my whole estate. Evelyn. Laws have been often abused to the oppression and subversion of that order they were intended to preserve. Rogers. 

SUBVERSIONARY:  Promoting destruction. 

SUBVERSIVE:  Tending to subvert; having a tendency to overthrow and ruin. Lying is a vice subversive of the very ends and design of conversation. Rogers. 

SUBVERT:  To overthrow anything from the foundation; to be subversive. They have a power given to them like that of the evil principle, to subvert and destroy. 

SUBVERTANT:  Reserved. [R.] 

SUBVERTEBRAL:  Situated beneath, or on the ventral side of, the vertebral column; situated beneath, or inside of, the endoskeleton; hypaxial; hyposkeletal. 

SUBVERTER:  One who, or that which, subverts; an overthrower. Sir T. More. 

SUBVERTIBLE:  That may be subverted. 

SUBVITALIZED:  Imperfectly vitalized; having naturally but little vital power or energy. 

SUBVOCAL:  Same as Subtonic. 

SUBWAY:  An underground way or gallery; especially, a passage under a street, in which water mains, gas mains, telegraph wires, etc., are conducted. 

SUBWORKER:  A subordinate worker or helper. South. 

SUBZONAL:  Situated under a zone, or zona; -- applied to a membrane between the zona radiata and the umbilical vesicle in the mammal embryo. 

SUBZYGOMATIC:  Situated under the zygoma or zygomatic process. 

SUCCADE:  Sweetmeats, or preserves in sugar, whether fruit, vegetables, or confections. Blakely. Succade gourd. (Bot.) Same as Vegetable marrow, under Vegetable. 

SUCCEDANE:  A succedaneum. [Obs.] 

SUCCEDANEOUS:  Pertaining to, or acting as, a succedaneum; supplying the place of something else; being, or employed as, a substitute for another. Sir T. Browne. 

SUCCEDANEUM:  One who, or that which, succeeds to the place of another; that which is used for something else; a substitute; specifically (Med.),  a remedy used as a substitute for another. In lieu of me, you will have a very charming succedaneum, Lady Harriet Stanhope. Walpole. 

SUCCEEDANT:  Succeeding one another; following. 

SUCCEEDER:  A successor. Shak. Tennyson. 

SUCCEEDING:  The act of one who, or that which, succeeds; also, that which succeeds, or follows after; consequence. Shak. 

SUCCENTOR:  A subchanter. 

SUCCESSARY:  Succession. [Obs.] My peculiar honors, not derived From successary, but purchased with my blood. Beau. & Fl. 

SUCCESSFUL:  Resulting in success; assuring, or promotive of, success; accomplishing what was proposed; having the desired effect; hence, prosperous; fortunate; happy; as, a successful use of medicine; a successful experiment; a successful enterprise. Welcome, nephews, from successful wars. Shak.  Syn.  -- Happy; prosperous; fortunate; auspicious; lucky. See Fortunate.  -- Suc*cess"ful*ly, adv.  -- Suc*cess"ful*ness, n. 

SUCCESSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a succession; existing in a regular order; consecutive. "Successional teeth." Flower.  -- Suc*ces"sion*al*ly, adv. 

SUCCESSIONIST:  A person who insists on the importance of a regular succession of events, offices, etc.; especially (Eccl.), one who insists that apostolic succession alone is valid. 

SUCCESSIVELY:  In a successive manner. The whiteness, at length, changed successively into blue, indigo, and violet. Sir I. Newton. 

SUCCESSIVENESS:  The quality or state of being successive. 

SUCCESSLESS:  Having no success. Successless all her soft caresses prove. Pope. -- Suc*cess"less*ly, adv.  -- Suc*cess"less*ness, n. 

SUCCESSOR:  One who succeeds or follows; one who takes the place which another has left, and sustains the like part or character; -- correlative to predecessor; as, the successor of a deceased king. Chaucer. A gift to a corporation, either of lands or of chattels, without naming their successors, vests an absolute property in them so lond as the corporation subsists. Blackstone. 

SUCCIDUOUS:  Ready to fall; falling. [R.] 

SUCCIFEROUS:  Producing or conveying sap. 

SUCCINAMATE:  A salt of succinamic acid. 

SUCCINAMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid amide derivative of succinic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, and forming a series of salts. 

SUCCINATE:  A salt of succinic acid. 

SUCCINIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, amber; specif., designating a dibasic acid, C 

SUCCINIMIDE:  A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, C2H4.(CO)2.NH, obtained by treating succinic anhydride with ammonia gas. It is a typical imido acid, and forms a series of salts. See Imido acid, under Imido. 

SUCCINOUS:  Succinic. [R.] 

SUCCINURATE:  A salt of succinuric acid. 

SUCCINURIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid amide, analogous to succinamic acid, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance by heating urea with succinic anhydride. It is known also in its salts. 

SUCCINYL:  A hypothetical radical characteristic of succinic acid and certain of its derivatives. 

SUCCISE:  Appearing as if a part were cut off at the extremity. 

SUCCISION:  The act of cutting down, as of trees; the act of cutting off. [R.] 

SUCCOR:  tiono run to, or run to support; hence, to help or relieve when in difficulty, want, or distress; to assist and deliver from suffering; to relieve; as, to succor a besieged city. [Written also succour.] He is able to succor them that are tempted. Heb. ii. 18.  Syn.  -- To aid; assist; relieve; deliver; help; comfort. 

SUCCORABLE:  Capable of being succored or assisted; admitting of relief. 

SUCCORER:  One who affords succor; a helper. 

SUCCORLESS:  Destitute of succor. Thomson. 

SUCCORY:  A plant of the genus Cichorium. See Chicory. 

SUCCOTASH:  Green maize and beans boiled together. The dish is borrowed from the native Indians. [Written also suckatash.] 

SUCCOTEAGUE:  The squeteague. 

SUCCUBA:  A female demon or fiend. See Succubus. Though seeming in shape a woman natural Was a fiend of the kind that succubæ some call. Mir. for Mag. 

SUCCUBINE:  Of or pertaining to succuba. 

SUCCUBOUS:  Having the leaves so placed that the upper part of each one is covered by the base of the next higher leaf, as in hepatic mosses of the genus Plagiochila. 

SUCCUBUS:  The nightmare. See Nightmare, 2. 

SUCCULA:  A bare axis or cylinder with staves or levers in it to turn it round, but without any drum.  SUCCULENCE; SUCCULENCY Suc"cu*lence, Suc"cu*len*cy, n. Etym: [See Succulent.]  The quality or condition of being succulent; juiciness; as, the succulence of a peach. 

SUCCULENT:  Full of juice; juicy. Succulent plants (Bot.), plants which have soft and juicy leaves or stems, as the houseleek, the live forever, and the species of Mesembryanthemum. 

SUCCULENTLY:  In a succulent manner. 

SUCCULOUS:  Succulent; juicy. [R.] 

SUCCUMB:  To yield; to submit; to give up unresistingly; as, to succumb under calamities; to succumb to disease. 

SUCCUMBENT:  Submissive; yielding. [R.] Howell. 

SUCCURSAL:  Serving to aid or help; serving as a chapel of ease; tributary. [R.] Not a city was without its cathedral, surrounded by its succursal churches, its monasteries, and convents. Milman. 

SUCCUS:  The expressed juice of a plant, for medicinal use. Succus entericus (. Etym: [NL., literally, juice of the intestines.] (Physiol.) A fluid secreted in small by certain glands (probably the glands of Lieberkühn) of the small intestines. Its exact action is somewhat doubtful. 

SUCCUSSION:  The act of shaking; a shake; esp. (Med.), a shaking of the body to ascertain if there be a liquid in the thorax. 

SUCCUSSIVE:  Characterized by a shaking motion, especially an up and down movement, and not merely tremulous oscillation; as, the succussive motion in earthquakes. 

SUCHOSPONDYLOUS:  Having dorsal vertebræ with long and divided transverse processes; -- applied to certain reptiles. 

SUCHWISE:  In a such a manner; so. 

SUCKANHOCK:  A kind of seawan. See Note under Seawan. 

SUCKATASH:  See Succotash. Bartlett. 

SUCKEN:  The jurisdiction of a mill, or that extent of ground astricted to it, the tenants of which are bound to bring their grain thither to be ground. 

SUCKER:  A shoot from the roots or lower part of the stem of a plant; -- so called, perhaps, from diverting nourishment from the body of the plant.  7. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of North American fresh-water cyprinoid fishes of the family Catostomidæ; so called because the lips are protrusile. The flesh is coarse, and they are of little value as food. The most common species of the Eastern United States are the northern sucker (Catostomus Commersoni), the white sucker (C. teres), the hog sucker (C. nigricans), and the chub, or sweet sucker (Erimyzon sucetta). Some of the large Western species are called buffalo fish, red horse, black horse, and suckerel. (b) The remora. (c) The lumpfish. (d) The hagfish, or myxine. (e) A California food fish (Menticirrus undulatus) closely allied to the kingfish (a); -- called also bagre.  8. A parasite; a sponger. See def. 6, above. They who constantly converse with men far above their estates shall reap shame and loss thereby; if thou payest nothing, they will count thee a sucker, no branch. Fuller.  9. A hard drinker; a soaker. [Slang]  10. A greenhorn; one easily gulled. [Slang, U.S.]  11. A nickname applied to a native of Illinois. [U. S.] Carp sucker, Cherry sucker, etc. See under Carp, Cherry, etc.  -- Sucker fish. See Sucking fish, under Sucking.  -- Sucker rod, a pump rod. See under Pump.  -- Sucker tube (Zoöl.), one of the external ambulacral tubes of an echinoderm, -- usually terminated by a sucker and used for locomotion. Called also sucker foot. See Spatangoid. 

SUCKER:  To strip off the suckers or shoots from; to deprive of suckers; as, to sucker maize. 

SUCKER:  To form suckers; as, corn suckers abundantly.  SUCKER STATE Suck"er State.  Illinois; -- a nickname. 

SUCKET:  A sweetmeat; a dainty morsel. Jer. Taylor. 

SUCKFISH:  A sucker fish. 

SUCKING:  Drawing milk from the mother or dam; hence, colloquially, young, inexperienced, as, a sucking infant; a sucking calf. I suppose you are a young barrister, sucking lawyer, or that sort of thing. Thackeray. Sucking bottle, a feeding bottle. See under Bottle.  -- Sucking fish (Zoöl.), the remora. See Remora. Baird.  -- Sucking pump, a suction pump. See under Suction.  -- Sucking stomach (Zoöl.), the muscular first stomach of certain insects and other invertebrates which suck liquid food. 

SUCKLE:  A teat. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 

SUCKLE:  To give suck to; to nurse at the breast. Addison. The breasts of Hecuba When she did suckle Hector, looked not lovelier. Shak. They are not weak, suckled by Wisdom. Landor. 

SUCKLE:  To nurse; to suck. [R.] 

SUCKLER:  An animal that suckles its young; a mammal. 

SUCRATE:  A compound of sucrose (or of some related carbohydrate) with some base, after the analogy of a salt; as, sodium sucrate. 

SUCRE:  A silver coin of Ecuador, worth 68 cents. 

SUCROSE:  A common variety of sugar found in the juices of many plants, as the sugar cane, sorghum, sugar maple, beet root, etc. It is extracted as a sweet, white crystalline substance which is valuable as a food product, and, being antiputrescent, is largely used in the preservation of fruit. Called also saccharose, cane sugar, etc. By extension, any one of the class of isomeric substances (as lactose, maltose, etc.) of which sucrose proper is the type.  Note: Sucrose proper is a dextrorotatory carbohydrate, C12H22O11. It does not reduce Fehling's solution, and though not directly fermentable, yet on standing with yeast it is changed by the diastase present to invert sugar (dextrose and levulose), which then breaks down to alcohol and carbon dioxide. It is also decomposed to invert sugar by heating with acids, whence it is also called a disaccharate. Sucrose possesses at once the properties of an alcohol and a ketone, and also forms compounds (called sucrates) analogous to salts. Cf. Sugar. 

SUCTION:  The act or process of sucking; the act of drawing, as fluids, by exhausting the air. Suction chamber, the chamber of a pump into which the suction pipe delivers.  -- Suction pipe, Suction valve, the induction pipe, and induction valve, of a pump, respectively.  -- Suction pump, the common pump, in which the water is raised into the barrel by atmospheric pressure. See Illust. of Pump. 

SUCTORIAL:  Adapted for sucking; living by sucking; as, the humming birds are suctorial birds.  2. (Zoöl.)  Capable of adhering by suction; as, the suctorial fishes. 

SUCTORIAN:  A cartilaginous fish with a mouth adapted for suction, as the lampery.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the Suctoria. 

SUCTORIOUS:  Suctorial. [R.] 

SUDAMINA:  Minute vesicles surrounded by an area of reddened skin, produced by excessive sweating. 

SUDARIUM:  The handkerchief upon which the Savior is said to have impressed his own portrait miraculously, when wiping his face with it, as he passed to the crucifixion. 

SUDARY:  A napkin or handkerchief. [Obs. or R.] Wyclif. R. Browning. 

SUDATION:  A sweating. [Obs.] 

SUDATORIUM:  A sudatory. Dunglison. 

SUDATORY:  Sweating; perspiring. 

SUDATORY:  A bagnio; a sweating bath; a vapor bath. These sudatories are much in request for many infirmities. Evelyn. 

SUDD:  A tangled mass of floating vegetal matter obstructing navigation. [Central Africa] 

SUDDEN:  Suddenly; unexpectedly. [R.] Herbs of every leaf that sudden flowered. Milton. 

SUDDEN:  An unexpected occurrence; a surprise. All of a sudden, On a sudden, Of a sudden, sooner than was expected; without the usual preparation; suddenly. How art thou lost! how on a sudden lost! Milton. He withdrew his opposition all of a sudden. Thackeray. 

SUDDENTY:  Suddenness; a sudden. [Scot.] On a suddenty, on a sudden. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SUDORAL:  Of or pertaining to sweat; as, sudoral eruptions. 

SUDORIFEROUS:  Producing, or secreting, sweat; sudoriparous. Sudoriferous glands (Anat.), small convoluted tubular glands which are situated in the subcutaneous tissues and discharge by minute orifices in the surface of the skin; the sweat glands. 

SUDORIFIC:  Causing sweat; as, sudorific herbs.  -- n.  A sudorific medicine. Cf. Diaphoretic. 

SUDORIPAROUS:  Same as Sudoriferous. 

SUDOROUS:  Consisting of sweat. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SUDRA:  The lowest of the four great castes among the Hindoos. See Caste. [Written also Soorah, Soodra, and Sooder.] 

SUDS:  Water impregnated with soap, esp. when worked up into bubbles and froth. In the suds, in turmoil or difficulty. [Colloq.] Beau. & Fl. 

SUE:  To clean, as the beak; -- said of a hawk.  4. (Naut.)  To leave high and dry on shore; as, to sue a ship. R. H. Dana, Jr. To sue out (Law), to petition for and take out, or to apply for and obtain; as, to sue out a writ in chancery; to sue out a pardon for a criminal. 

SUE:  To prosecute; to make legal claim; to seek (for something) in law; as, to sue for damages.  3. To woo; to pay addresses as a lover. Massinger.  4. (Naut.)  To be left high and dry on the shore, as a ship. R. H. Dana, Jr. 

SUEDE:  Swedish glove leather, --usually made from lambskins tanned with willow bark. Also used adjectively; as, suède gloves. 

SUENT:  Uniformly or evenly distributed or spread; even; smooth. See Suant. Thoreau. 

SUENTLY:  Evenly; smoothly. 

SUER:  One who sues; a suitor. 

SUET:  The fat and fatty tissues of an animal, especially the harder fat about the kidneys and loins in beef and mutton, which, when melted and freed from the membranes, forms tallow. 

SUETY:  Consisting of, or resembling, suet; as, a suety substance.  SUF- Suf-.  A form of the prefix Sub-. 

SUFFERING:  The bearing of pain, inconvenience, or loss; pain endured; distress, loss, or injury incurred; as, sufferings by pain or sorrow; sufferings by want or by wrongs. "Souls in sufferings tried." Keble. 

SUFFERING:  Being in pain or grief; having loss, injury, distress, etc.  -- Suf"fer*ing*ly, adv. 

SUFFICE:  To be enough, or sufficient; to meet the need (of anything); to be equal to the end proposed; to be adequate. Chaucer. To recount almighty works, What words or tongue of seraph can suffice Milton. 

SUFFICIENCE:  Sufficiently. [Obs.] 

SUFFICIENTLY:  To a sufficient degree; to a degree that answers the purpose, or gives content; enough; as, we are sufficiently supplied with food; a man sufficiently qualified for the discharge of his official duties. 

SUFFICING:  Affording enough; satisfying.  -- Suf*fi"cing*ly, adv.  -- Suf*fi"cing*ness, n. 

SUFFISANCE:  Sufficiency; plenty; abundance; contentment. [Obs.] He could in little thing have suffisaunce. Chaucer. 

SUFFISANT:  Sufficient. [Obs.] 

SUFFIX:  A subscript mark, number, or letter. See Subscript, a. 

SUFFIX:  To add or annex to the end, as a letter or syllable to a word; to append. 

SUFFIXION:  The act of suffixing, or the state of being suffixed. 

SUFFIXMENT:  Suffixion. [R.] Earle. 

SUFFLATE:  To blow up; to inflate; to inspire. [R.] T. Ward. 

SUFFLATION:  The act of blowing up or inflating. [R.] Coles. 

SUFFOCATE:  Suffocated; choked. Shak. 

SUFFOCATE:  To become choked, stifled, or smothered. "A swelling discontent is apt to suffocate and strangle without passage." collier. 

SUFFOCATING:  from Suffocate, v.  -- Suf"fo*ca`ting*ly, adv. 

SUFFOCATION:  The act of suffocating, or the state of being suffocated; death caused by smothering or choking.  Note: The term suffocation is sometimes employed synonymously with asphyxia. In the strict medico-legal sense it signifies asphyxia induced by obstruction of the respiration otherwise than by direct pressure on the neck (hanging, strangulation) or submersion (drowning). Quain. 

SUFFOCATIVE:  Tending or able to choke or stifle. "Suffocative catarrhs." Arbuthnot. 

SUFFOSSION:  A digging under; an undermining. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

SUFFRAGAN:  Assisting; assistant; as, a suffragan bishop. 

SUFFRAGAN:  A bishop considered as an assistant, or as subject, to his metropolitan; an assistant bishop. 

SUFFRAGANSHIP:  The office of a suffragan. 

SUFFRAGANT:  Suffragan. [Obs.] 

SUFFRAGATE:  To vote or vote with. [Obs.] "Suffragating tribes." Dryden. 

SUFFRAGATOR:  One who assists or favors by his vote. [Obs.] 

SUFFRAGE:  The right to vote; franchise. 

SUFFRAGE:  To vote for; to elect. [Obs.] Milton. 

SUFFRAGETTE:  A woman who advocates the right to vote for women; a woman suffragist. 

SUFFRAGINOUS:  Of or pertaining to the hock of a beast. [Obs.] 

SUFFRAGO:  The heel joint. 

SUFFRANCE:  Sufferance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SUFFRUTESCENT:  Slightly woody at the base. 

SUFFRUTICOSE:  Woody in the lower part of the stem, but with the yearly branches herbaceous, as sage, thyme, hyssop, and the like. 

SUFFRUTICOUS:  Suffruticose. 

SUFFUMIGATE:  To apply fumes or smoke to the parts of, as to the body in medicine; to fumigate in part. 

SUFFUMIGATION:  The operation of suffumigating. 

SUFFUMIGE:  A medical fume. [Obs.] Harvey. 

SUFFUSE:  To overspread, as with a fluid or tincture; to fill or cover, as with something fluid; as, eyes suffused with tears; cheeks suffused with blushes. When purple light shall next suffuse the skies. Pope. 

SUFFUSION:  A blending of one color into another; the spreading of one color over another, as on the feathers of birds. 

SUFI:  A title or surname of the king of Persia. 

SUFI:  One of a certain order of religious men in Persia. [Written also sofi.] 

SUFISM:  A refined mysticism among certain classes of Mohammedans, particularly in Persia, who hold to a kind of pantheism and practice extreme asceticism in their lives. [Written also sofism.] 

SUG:  A kind of worm or larva. Walton. 

SUGAR:  In making maple sugar, to complete the process of boiling down the sirup till it is thick enough to crystallize; to approach or reach the state of granulation; -- with the preposition off. [Local, U.S.] 

SUGARED:  Sweetened. "The sugared liquor." Spenser.  Also used figuratively; as, sugared kisses.  SUGAR-HOUSE Sug"ar-house`, n.  A building in which sugar is made or refined; a sugar manufactory. 

SUGARINESS:  The quality or state of being sugary, or sweet. 

SUGARLESS:  Without sugar; free from sugar. 

SUGARPLUM:  A kind of candy or sweetneat made up in small balls or disks. 

SUGESCENT:  Of or pertaining to sucking. [R.] Paley. 

SUGGEST:  To make suggestions; to tempt. [Obs.] And ever weaker grows through acted crime, Or seeming-genial, venial fault, Recurring and suggesting still. Tennyson. 

SUGGESTER:  One who suggests. Beau. & Fl. 

SUGGESTION:  Information without oath; an entry of a material fact or circumstance on the record for the information of the court, at the death or insolvency of a party.  5. (Physiol. & Metaph.)  The act or power of originating or recalling ideas or relations, distinguished as original and relative; -- a term much used by Scottish metaphysicians from Hutcherson to Thomas Brown.  Syn.  -- Hint; allusion; intimation; insinuation.  -- Suggestion, Hint. A hint is the briefest or most indirect mode of calling one's attention to a subject. A suggestion is a putting of something before the mind for consideration, an indirect or guarded mode of presenting argument or advice. A hint is usually something slight or covert, and may by merely negative in its character. A suggestion is ordinarily intended to furnish us with some practical assistance or direction. "He gave me a hint of my danger, and added some suggestions as to the means of avoiding it." Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike, Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike. Pope. Arthur, whom they say is killed to-night On your suggestion. Shak. 

SUGGESTIVE:  Containing a suggestion, hint, or intimation.  -- Sug*gest"ive*ly, adv.  -- Sug*gest"ive*ness, n.  SUGGESTIVE MEDICINE Sug*gest"ive med"i*cine.  Treatment by commands or positive statements addressed to a more or less hypnotized patient. 

SUGGESTMENT:  Suggestion. [R.] They fancy that every thought must needs have an immediate outward suggestment. Hare. 

SUGGESTRESS:  A woman who suggests. "The suggestress of suicides." De Quincey. 

SUGGIL:  To defame. [Obs.] Abp. Parker. 

SUGGILLATE:  To beat livid, or black and blue. Wiseman. 

SUGGILLATION:  A livid, or black and blue, mark; a blow; a bruise. 

SUICIDAL:  Partaking of, or of the nature of, the crime or suicide.  -- Su"i*ci`dal*ly, adv. 

SUICIDICAL:  Suicidal. [Obs.] 

SUICIDISM:  The quality or state of being suicidal, or self-murdering. [R.] 

SUICISM:  Selfishness; egoism. [R.] Whitlock.  SUI GENERIS Su"i gen"e*ris. Etym: [L.]  Of his or its own kind. 

SUILLAGE:  A drain or collection of filth. [Obs.] [Written also sulliage, and sullage.] Sir H. Wotton. 

SUILLINE:  Of or pertaining to a hog or the Hog family (Suidæ). 

SUINE:  A mixture of oleomargarine with lard or other fatty ingredients. It is used as a substitute for butter. See Butterine. 

SUING:  The process of soaking through anything. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SUINGLY:  In succession; afterwards. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

SUINT:  A peculiar substance obtained from the wool of sheep, consisting largely of potash mixed with fatty and earthy matters. It is used as a source of potash and also for the manufacture of gas. 

SUIOGOTHS:  The Scandinavian Goths. See the Note under Goths. 

SUIST:  One who seeks for things which gratify merely himself; a selfish person; a selfist. [R.] Whitlock. 

SUIT:  The attempt to gain an end by legal process; an action or process for the recovery of a right or claim; legal application to a court for justice; prosecution of right before any tribunal; as, a civil suit; a criminal suit; a suit in chancery. I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino. Shak. In England the several suits, or remedial instruments of justice, are distinguished into three kinds -- actions personal, real, and mixed. Blackstone.  5. That which follows as a retinue; a company of attendants or followers; the assembly of persons who attend upon a prince, magistrate, or other person of distinction; -- often written suite, and pronounced swet.  6. Things that follow in a series or succession; the individual objects, collectively considered, which constitute a series, as of rooms, buildings, compositions, etc.; -- often written suite, and pronounced swet.  7. A number of things used together, and generally necessary to be united in order to answer their purpose; a number of things ordinarily classed or used together; a set; as, a suit of curtains; a suit of armor; a suit of clothes. "Two rogues in buckram suits." Shak.  8. (Playing Cards)  One of the four sets of cards which constitute a pack; -- each set consisting of thirteen cards bearing a particular emblem, as hearts, spades, cubs, or diamonds. To deal and shuffle, to divide and sort Her mingled suits and sequences. Cowper.  9. Regular order; succession. [Obs.] Every five and thirty years the same kind and suit of weather comes again. Bacon. Out of suits, having no correspondence. [Obs.] Shak.  -- Suit and service (Feudal Law), the duty of feudatories to attend the courts of their lords or superiors in time of peace, and in war to follow them and do military service; -- called also suit service. Blackstone.  -- Suit broker, one who made a trade of obtaining the suits of petitioners at court. [Obs.] -- Suit court (O. Eng. Law), the court in which tenants owe attendance to their lord.  -- Suit covenant (O. Eng. Law), a covenant to sue at a certain court.  -- Suit custom (Law), a service which is owed from time immemorial.  -- Suit service. (Feudal Law) See Suit and service, above.  -- To bring suit. (Law) (a) To bring secta, followers or witnesses, to prove the plaintiff's demand. [Obs.] (b) In modern usage, to institute an action.  -- To follow suit. (Card Playing) See under Follow, v. t. 

SUIT:  To agree; to accord; to be fitted; to correspond; -- usually followed by with or to. The place itself was suiting to his care. Dryden. Give me not an office That suits with me so ill. Addison.  Syn.  -- To agree; accord; comport; tally; correspond; match; answer. 

SUITABILITY:  The quality or state of being suitable; suitableness. 

SUITABLE:  Capable of suiting; fitting; accordant; proper; becoming; agreeable; adapted; as, ornaments suitable to one's station; language suitable for the subject.  -- Suit"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Suit"a*bly, adv.  Syn.  -- Proper; fitting; becoming; accordant; agreeable; competent; correspondent; compatible; consonant; congruous; consistent. 

SUITE:  One of the old musical forms, before the time of the more compact sonata, consisting of a string or series of pieces all in the same key, mostly in various dance rhythms, with sometimes an elaborate prelude. Some composers of the present day affect the suite form. 

SUITING:  Among tailors, cloth suitable for making entire suits of clothes. 

SUITRESS:  A female supplicant. Rowe. 

SUJI:  Indian wheat, granulated but not pulverized; a kind of semolina. [Written also soojee.] 

SULA:  A genus of sea birds including the booby and the common gannet.  SULCATE; SULCATED Sul"cate, Sul"ca*ted, a. Etym: [L. sulcatus, p.p. of sulcare to furrow, fr. sulcus a furrow.]  Scored with deep and regular furrows; furrowed or grooved; as, a sulcated stem. 

SULCATION:  A channel or furrow. 

SULCIFORM:  Having the form of a sulcus; as, sulciform markings. 

SULCUS:  A furrow; a groove; a fissure.  SULEAH FISH Su"le*ah fish`. (Zoöl.)  A coarse fish of India, used in making a breakfast relish called burtah. 

SULK:  A furrow. [Obs.] 

SULK:  To be silently sullen; to be morose or obstinate. T. Hook. 

SULKER:  One who sulks. 

SULKILY:  In a sulky manner. 

SULKINESS:  The quality or state of being sulky; sullenness; moroseness; as, sulkiness of disposition. 

SULKS:  The condition of being sulky; a sulky mood or humor; as, to be in the sulks. 

SULKY:  Moodly silent; sullen; sour; obstinate; morose; splenetic.  Syn.  -- See Sullen. 

SULKY:  A light two-wheeled carriage for a single person.  Note: Sulky is used adjectively in the names of several agricultural machines drawn by horses to denote that the machine is provided with wheels and a seat for the driver; as, sulky plow; sulky harrow; sulky rake, etc. 

SULL:  A plow. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

SULLAGE:  The scoria on the surface of molten metal in the ladle.  4. (Hydraul. Engin.)  Silt; mud deposited by water. Sullage piece (Founding), the sprue of a casting. See Sprue, n., 1 (b). 

SULLEN:  Sullen feelings or manners; sulks; moroseness; as, to have the sullens. [Obs.] Shak. 

SULLEN:  To make sullen or sluggish. [Obs.] Sullens the whole body with . . . laziness. Feltham. 

SULLEVATE:  To rouse; to excite. [Obs.] Daniel. 

SULLIAGE:  Foulness; filth. [Obs.] Though we wipe away with never so much care the dirt thrown at us, there will be left some sulliage behind. Gov. of Tongue. 

SULLY:  To soil; to dirty; to spot; to tarnish; to stain; to darken; -- used literally and figuratively; as, to sully a sword; to sully a person's reputation. Statues sullied yet with sacrilegious smoke. Roscommon. No spots to sully the brightness of this solemnity. Atterbury. 

SULLY:  To become soiled or tarnished. Silvering will sully and canker more than gilding. Bacon. 

SULLY:  Soil; tarnish; stain. A noble and triumphant merit breaks through little spots and sullies in his reputation. Spectator. 

SULPHACID:  An acid in which, to a greater or less extent, sulphur plays a part analogous to that of oxygen in an oxyacid; thus, thiosulphuric and sulpharsenic acids are sulphacids; -- called also sulphoacid. See the Note under Acid, n., 2. 

SULPHAMATE:  A salt of sulphamic acid. 

SULPHAMIC:  Of or pertaining to a sulphamide; derived from, or related to, a sulphamide; specifically, designating an amido acid derivative, NH2.SO2.OH, of sulphuric acid (analogous to sulphonic acid) which is not known in the free state, but is known in its salts. 

SULPHAMIDE:  Any one of a series of amido compounds obtained by treating sulphuryl chloride with various amines. 

SULPHANILIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anilene sulphonic acid which is obtained as a white crystalline substance. 

SULPHANTIMONATE:  A salt of sulphantimonic acid. 

SULPHANTIMONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of antimony (called also thioantimonic acid) analogous to sulpharsenic acid. 

SULPHANTIMONIOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of antimony (called also thioantimonious acid) analogous to sulpharsenious acid. 

SULPHANTIMONITE:  A salt of sulphantimonious acid. 

SULPHARSENATE:  A salt of sulpharsenic acid. 

SULPHARSENIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid (called also thioarsenic acid) analogous to arsenic acid, and known only in its salts. 

SULPHARSENIOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid (called also thioarsenious acid) analogous to arsenious acid, and known only in its salts. 

SULPHARSENITE:  A salt of sulpharsenious acid. 

SULPHATE:  A salt of sulphuric acid. 

SULPHATIC:  Of, pertaining to, resembling, or containing, a sulphate or sulphates.  SULPHATO- Sul"pha*to-. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting a sulphate as an ingredient in certain double salts; as, sulphato-carbonate. [R.] 

SULPHAURATE:  A salt of sulphauric acid. 

SULPHAURIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of gold (aurum), known only in its salts. 

SULPHIDE:  A binary compound of sulphur, or one so regarded; -- formerly called sulphuret. Double sulphide (Chem.), a compound of two sulphides.  -- Hydrogen sulphide. (Chem.) See under Hydrogen.  -- Metallic sulphide, a binary compound of sulphur with a metal. 

SULPHINATE:  A salt of a sulphinic acid. 

SULPHINDIGOTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphonic acid obtained, as a blue solution, by dissolving indigo in sulphuric acid; -- formerly called also cerulic sulphuric acid, but properly called indigo-disulphonic acid. 

SULPHINE:  Any one of a series of basic compounds which consist essentially of sulphur united with hydrocarbon radicals. In general they are oily or crystalline deliquescent substances having a peculiar odor; as, trimethyl sulphine, (CH3)3S.OH. Cf. Sulphonium. 

SULPHINIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of a series of acids regarded as acid ethereal salts of hyposulphurous acid; as, methyl sulphinic acid, CH3.SO.OH, a thick unstable liquid. 

SULPHINIDE:  A white or yellowish crystalline substance, C6H4.(SO2.CO).NH, produced artificially by the oxidation of a sulphamic derivative of toluene. It is the sweetest substance known, having over two hundred times the sweetening power of sugar, and is known in commerce under the name of saccharine. It has acid properties and forms salts (which are inaccurately called saccharinates). I. Remsen. 

SULPHION:  A hypothetical radical, SO4, regarded as forming the acid or negative constituent of sulphuric acid and the sulphates in electrolytic decomposition; -- so called in accordance with the binary theory of salts. [Written also sulphione.] 

SULPHIONIDE:  A binary compound of sulphion, or one so regarded; thus, sulphuric acid, Hsulphionide. 

SULPHITE:  A salt of sulphurous acid.  SULPHO- Sul"pho-. (Chem.)  A prefix (also used adjectively) designating sulphur as an ingredient in certain compounds. Cf. Thio-. 

SULPHOARSENIC:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, sulphur and arsenic; -- said of an acid which is the same as arsenic acid with the substitution of sulphur for oxygen. 

SULPHOCARBONATE:  A salt of sulphocarbonic acid; a thiocarbonate. 

SULPHOCARBONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphacid, H2CSO2 (called also thiocarbonic acid), or an acid, H2CS3, analogous to carbonic acid, obtained as a yellow oily liquid of a pungent odor, and forming salts. 

SULPHOCYANATE:  A salt of sulphocyanic acid; -- also called thiocyanate, and formerly inaccurately sulphocyanide. Ferric sulphocyanate (Chem.), a dark red crystalline substance usually obtained in a blood-red solution, and recognized as a test for ferric iron. 

SULPHOCYANIC:  Of, pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a sulphacid, HSCN, analogous to cyanic acid, and obtained as a colorless deliquescent crystalline substance, having a bitter saline taste, and not poisonous. 

SULPHOCYANIDE:  See Sulphocyanate. 

SULPHOCYANOGEN:  See Persulphocyanogen. [Obs.] 

SULPHONAL:  A substance employed as a hypnotic, produced by the union of mercaptan and acetone. 

SULPHONATE:  A salt of sulphonic acid. 

SULPHONE:  Any one of a series of compounds analogous to the ketones, and consisting of the sulphuryl group united with two hydrocarbon radicals; as, dimethyl sulphone, (CH.SO 

SULPHONIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, a sulphone; -- used specifically to designate any one of a series of acids (regarded as acid ethereal salts of sulphurous acid) obtained by the oxidation of the mercaptans, or by treating sulphuric acid with certain aromatic bases (as benzene); as, phenyl sulphonic acid, C6H5.SO2.OH, a stable colorless crystalline substance. Sulphonic group (Chem.), the hypothetical radical, SO2.OH, the characteristic residue of sulphonic acids. 

SULPHONIUM:  A hypothetical radical, SH3, regarded as the type and nucleus of the sulphines. 

SULPHOPHOSPHATE:  A salt of sulphophosphoric acid. 

SULPHOPHOSPHITE:  A salt of sulphophosphorous acid. 

SULPHOPHOSPHORIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of phosphorus, analogous to phosphoric acid, and known in its salts. 

SULPHOPHOSPHOROUS:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical acid of phosphorus, analogous to phosphorous acid, and known in its salts. 

SULPHOSALT:  A salt of a sulphacid. 

SULPHOSTANNATE:  A salt of sulphostannic acid. 

SULPHOSTANNIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphacid of tin (more exactly called metasulphostannic acid), which is obtained as a dark brown amorphous substance, H 

SULPHOTUNGSTATE:  A salt of sulphotungstic acid. 

SULPHOTUNGSTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, hypothetical sulphacid of tungsten (called also sulphowolframic acid), analogous to sulphuric acid, and known in its salts. 

SULPHOVINIC:  Of, pertaining to, and formerly designating, ethylsulphuric acid. 

SULPHUR:  A nonmetallic element occurring naturally in large quantities, either combined as in the sulphides (as pyrites) and sulphates (as gypsum), or native in volcanic regions, in vast beds mixed with gypsum and various earthy materials, from which it is melted out. Symbol S. Atomic weight 32. The specific gravity of ordinary octohedral sulphur is 2.05; of prismatic sulphur, 1.96.  Note: It is purified by distillation, and is obtained as a lemon- yellow powder (by sublimation), called flour, or flowers, of sulphur, or in cast sticks called roll sulphur, or brimstone. It burns with a blue flame and a peculiar suffocating odor. It is an ingredient of gunpowder, is used on friction matches, and in medicine (as a laxative and insecticide), but its chief use is in the manufacture of sulphuric acid. Sulphur can be obtained in two crystalline modifications, in orthorhombic octahedra, or in monoclinic prisms, the former of which is the more stable at ordinary temperatures. Sulphur is the type, in its chemical relations, of a group of elements, including selenium and tellurium, called collectively the sulphur group, or family. In many respects sulphur resembles oxygen.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of yellow or orange butterflies of the subfamily Pierinæ; as, the clouded sulphur (Eurymus, or Colias, philodice), which is the common yellow butterfly of the Eastern United States. Amorphous sulphur (Chem.), an elastic variety of sulphur of a resinous appearance, obtained by pouring melted sulphur into water. On standing, it passes back into a brittle crystalline modification.  -- Liver of sulphur. (Old Chem.) See Hepar.  -- Sulphur acid. (Chem.) See Sulphacid.  -- Sulphur alcohol. (Chem.) See Mercaptan.  -- Sulphur auratum Etym: [L.] (Old Chem.), a golden yellow powder, consisting of antimonic sulphide, Sb2S5, -- formerly a famous nostrum.  -- Sulphur base (Chem.), an alkaline sulphide capable of acting as a base in the formation of sulphur salts according to the old dual theory of salts. [Archaic] -- Sulphur dioxide (Chem.), a colorless gas, SO2, of a pungent, suffocating odor, produced by the burning of sulphur. It is employed chiefly in the production of sulphuric acid, and as a reagent in bleaching; -- called also sulphurous anhydride, and formerly sulphurous acid.  -- Sulphur ether (Chem.), a sulphide of hydrocarbon radicals, formed like the ordinary ethers, which are oxides, but with sulphur in the place of oxygen.  -- Sulphur salt (Chem.), a salt of a sulphacid; a sulphosalt.  -- Sulphur showers, showers of yellow pollen, resembling sulphur in appearance, often carried from pine forests by the wind to a great distance.  -- Sulphur trioxide (Chem.), a white crystalline solid, SO3, obtained by oxidation of sulphur dioxide. It dissolves in water with a hissing noise and the production of heat, forming sulphuric acid, and is employed as a dehydrating agent. Called also sulphuric anhydride, and formerly sulphuric acid.  -- Sulphur whale. (Zoöl.) See Sulphur-bottom.  -- Vegetable sulphur (Bot.), lycopodium powder. See under Lycopodium. 

SULPHURATE:  Sulphureous. [Poetic & R.] Dr. H. More. 

SULPHURATE:  To sulphurize. [Archaic] 

SULPHURATION:  The act or process of combining or impregnating with sulphur or its compounds; also, the state of being so combined or impregnated. 

SULPHURATOR:  An apparatus for impregnating with, or exposing to the action of, sulphur; especially, an apparatus for fumigating or bleaching by means of the fumes of burning sulphur.  SULPHUR-BOTTOM Sul`phur-bot"tom, n. (Zoöl.)  A very large whalebone whale of the genus Sibbaldius, having a yellowish belly; especially, S. sulfureus of the North Pacific, and S. borealis of the North Atlantic; -- called also sulphur whale. 

SULPHUREITY:  The quality or state of being sulphureous. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SULPHUREOUS:  Consisting of sulphur; having the qualities of sulphur, or brimstone; impregnated with sulphur. Her snakes united, sulphureous waters drink. Pope. -- Sul*phu"re*ous*ly, adv.  -- Sul*phu"re*ous*ness, n. 

SULPHURET:  A sulphide; as, a sulphuret of potassium. [Obsoles.] 

SULPHURETED:  Combined or impregnated with sulphur; sulphurized. [Written also sulphuretted.] Sulphureted hydrogen. (Chem.) See Hydrogen sulphide, under Hydrogen. 

SULPHURIC:  Derived from, or containing, sulphur; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with the sulphurous compounds; as, sulphuric acid. Sulphuric acid. (a) Sulphur trioxide (see under Sulphur); -- formerly so called on the dualistic theory of salts. [Obs.] (b) A heavy, corrosive, oily liquid, H2SO4, colorless when pure, but usually yellowish or brownish, produced by the combined action of sulphur dioxide, oxygen (from the air), steam, and nitric fumes. It attacks and dissolves many metals and other intractable substances, sets free most acids from their salts, and is used in the manufacture of hydrochloric and nitric acids, of soda, of bleaching powders, etc. It is also powerful dehydrating agent, having a strong affinity for water, and eating and corroding paper, wood, clothing, etc. It is thus used in the manufacture of ether, of imitation parchment, and of nitroglycerin. It is also used in etching iron, in removing iron scale from forgings, in petroleum refining, etc., and in general its manufacture is the most important and fundamental of all the chemical industries. Formerly called vitriolic acid, and now popularly vitriol, and oil of vitriol.  -- Fuming sulphuric acid, or Nordhausen sulphuric acid. See Disulphuric acid, under Disulphuric.  -- Sulphuric anhydride, sulphur trioxide. See under Sulphur.  -- Sulphuric ether, common anæsthetic ether; -- so called because made by the catalytic action of sulphuric acid on alcohol. See Ether, 3 (a). 

SULPHURINE:  Sulphureous. [R.] 

SULPHURING:  Exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur, as in bleaching; the process of bleaching by exposure to the fumes of sulphur. 

SULPHURIZE:  To combine or impregnate with sulphur or any of its compounds; as, to sulphurize caoutchouc in vulcanizing. 

SULPHURWORT:  The hog's fennel. See under Fennel. 

SULPHURY:  Resembling, or partaking of the nature of, sulphur; having the qualities of sulphur. 

SULPHURYL:  The hypothetical radical SO2; -- called also sulphon. Sulphuryl chloride, a chloride, pungent, fuming liquid, SO2.Cl2, obtained by the action of phosphorus pentachloride on sulphur trioxide. On treatment with water it decomposes into sulphuric and hydrochloric acids, and is hence called also sulphuric chloranhydride. 

SULPHYDRATE:  A compound, analogous to a hydrate, regarded as a salt of sulphydric acid, or as a derivative of hydrogen sulphide in which one half of the hydrogen is replaced by a base (as potassium sulphydrate, KSH), or as a hydrate in which the oxygen has been wholly or partially replaced by sulphur. 

SULPHYDRIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen sulphide, which is regarded as an acid, especially when in solution. 

SULPICIAN:  One of an order of priests established in France in 1642 to educate men for the ministry. The order was introduced soon afterwards into Canada, and in 1791 into the United States. [Written also Sulpitian.] 

SULTAN:  A ruler, or sovereign, of a Mohammedan state; specifically, the ruler of the Turks; the Padishah, or Grand Seignior; -- officially so called. Sultan flower. (Bot.) See Sweet sultan, under Sweet. 

SULTANA:  A kind of seedless raisin produced near Smyrna in Asiatic Turkey. Sultana bird (Zoöl.), the hyacinthine, or purple, gallinule. See Illust. under Gallinule. 

SULTANATE:  The rule or dominion of a sultan; sultanship. 

SULTANESS:  A sultana. 

SULTANIC:  Pertaining to a sultan.  SULTAN-RED Sul"tan-red`, a.  Having a deep red color. 

SULTANRY:  The dominions of a sultan. Bacon. 

SULTANSHIP:  The office or dignity of a sultan. 

SULTANY:  Sultanry. [Obs.] Fuller. 

SULTRILY:  In a sultry manner. 

SULTRINESS:  The quality or state of being sultry. 

SULU:  A member of the most prominent tribe of the Moro tribes, occupying the Sulu Archipelago; also, their language. 

SUM:  A problem to be solved, or an example to be wrought out. Macaulay. A sum in arithmetic wherein a flaw discovered at a particular point is ipso facto fatal to the whole. Gladstone. A large sheet of paper . . . covered with long sums. Dickens. Algebraic sum, as distinguished from arithmetical sum, the aggregate of two or more numbers or quantities taken with regard to their signs, as + or -, according to the rules of addition in algebra; thus, the algebraic sum of -2, 8, and -1 is 5.  -- In sum, in short; in brief. [Obs.] "In sum, the gospel . . . prescribes every virtue to our conduct, and forbids every sin." Rogers. 

SUM:  To have (the feathers) full grown; to furnish with complete, or full-grown, plumage. But feathered soon and fledge They summed their pens [wings]. Milton. Summing up, a compendium or abridgment; a recapitulation; a résumé; a summary.  Syn.  -- To cast up; collect; comprise; condense; comprehend; compute.  SUMAC; SUMACH Su"mac, Su"mach, n. Etym: [F. sumac, formerly sumach (cf. Sp. zumaque), fr. Ar. summaq.] [Written also shumac.]  1. (Bot.)  Any plant of the genus Rhus, shrubs or small trees with usually compound leaves and clusters of small flowers. Some of the species are used in tanning, some in dyeing, and some in medicine. One, the Japanese Rhus vernicifera, yields the celebrated Japan varnish, or lacquer.  2. The powdered leaves, peduncles, and young branches of certain species of the sumac plant, used in tanning and dyeing. Poison sumac. (Bot.) See under Poison.  SUMATRA LEAF Su*ma"tra leaf.  A thin, elastic, uniformly light-colored tobacco leaf, raised in Sumatra and extensively used for cigar wrappers. 

SUMATRAN:  Of or pertaining to Sumatra or its inhabitants.  -- n.  A native of Sumatra. 

SUMBUL:  The musky root of an Asiatic umbelliferous plant, Ferula Sumbul. It is used in medicine as a stimulant. [Written also sumbal.] -- Sum*bul"ic, a. 

SUMERIAN:  Of or pertaining to the region of lower Babylonia, which was anciently called Sumer, or its inhabitants or their language. 

SUMERIAN:  A native of lower Babylonia, anciently called Sumer. 

SUMLESS:  Not to be summed up or computed; so great that the amount can not be ascertained; incalculable; inestimable. "Sumless treasure." Pope. 

SUMMARILY:  In a summary manner. 

SUMMARIST:  One who summarized. 

SUMMARIZE:  To comprise in, or reduce to, a summary; to present briefly. Chambers. 

SUMMARY:  A general or comprehensive statement; an abridged account; an abstract, abridgment, or compendium, containing the sum or substance of a fuller account. 

SUMMATION:  The act of summing, or forming a sum, or total amount; also, an aggregate. Of this series no summation is possible to a finite intellect. De Quincey. 

SUMMER:  One who sums; one who casts up an account. 

SUMMER:  A large stone or beam placed horizontally on columns, piers, posts, or the like, serving for various uses. Specifically: (a) The lintel of a door or window. (b) The commencement of a cross vault. (c) A central floor timber, as a girder, or a piece reaching from a wall to a girder. Called also summertree. 

SUMMER:  The season of the year in which the sun shines most directly upon any region; the warmest period of the year.  Note: North of the equator summer is popularly taken to include the months of June, July, and August. Astronomically it may be considered, in the northern hemisphere, to begin with the summer solstice, about June 21st, and to end with the autumnal equinox, about September 22d. Indian summer, in North America, a period of warm weather late in autumn, usually characterized by a clear sky, and by a hazy or smoky appearance of the atmosphere, especially near the horizon. The name is derived probably from the custom of the Indians of using this time in preparation for winter by laying in stores of food.  -- Saint Martin's summer. See under Saint.  -- Summer bird (Zoöl.), the wryneck. [Prov. Eng.] -- Summer colt, the undulating state of the air near the surface of the ground when heated. [Eng.] -- Summer complaint (Med.), a popular term for any diarrheal disorder occurring in summer, especially when produced by heat and indigestion.  -- Summer coot (Zoöl.), the American gallinule. [Local, U.S.] -- Summer cypress (Bot.), an annual plant (Kochia Scoparia) of the Goosefoot family. It has narrow, ciliate, crowded leaves, and is sometimes seen in gardens.  -- Summer duck. (Zoöl.) (a) The wood duck. (b) The garganey, or summer teal. See Illust. of Wood duck, under Wood.  -- Summer fallow, land uncropped and plowed, etc., during the summer, in order to pulverize the soil and kill the weeds.  -- Summer rash (Med.), prickly heat. See under Prickly.  -- Summer sheldrake (Zoöl.), the hooded merganser. [Local, U.S.] -- Summer snipe. (Zoöl.) (a) The dunlin. (b) The common European sandpiper. (c) The green sandpiper.  -- Summer tanager (Zoöl.), a singing bird (Piranga rubra) native of the Middle and Southern United States. The male is deep red, the female is yellowish olive above and yellow beneath. Called also summer redbird.  -- Summer teal (Zoöl.), the blue-winged teal. [Local, U.S.] -- Summer wheat, wheat that is sown in the spring, and matures during the summer following. See Spring wheat.  -- Summer yellowbird. (Zoöl.) See Yellowbird. 

SUMMER:  To pass the summer; to spend the warm season; as, to summer in Switzerland. The fowls shall summer upon them. Isa. xviii. 6. 

SUMMER:  To keep or carry through the summer; to feed during the summer; as, to summer stock.  SUMMER-FALLOW Sum"mer-fal"low, v. t.  To plow and work in summer, in order to prepare for wheat or other crop; to plow and let lie fallow. 

SUMMERHOUSE:  A rustic house or apartment in a garden or park, to be used as a pleasure resort in summer. Shak. 

SUMMERLINESS:  The quality or state of being like summer. [R.] Fuller.  SUMMERSAULT; SUMMERSET Sum"mer*sault, Sum"mer*set, n.  See Somersault, Somerset. 

SUMMERSTIR:  To summer-fallow. 

SUMMERTIDE:  Summer time. 

SUMMERTREE:  A summer. See 2d Summer. 

SUMMERY:  Of or pertaining to summer; like summer; as, a summery day. 

SUMMIST:  One who sums up; one who forms an abridgment or summary. Sir E. Dering. 

SUMMIT:  The most elevated part of a bivalve shell, or the part in which the hinge is situated. Summit level, the highest level of a canal, a railroad, or the like, in surmounting an ascent. 

SUMMITLESS:  Having no summit. 

SUMMON:  To call upon to surrender, as a fort.  Syn.  -- To call; cite; notify; convene; convoke; excite; invite; bid. See Call. 

SUMMONER:  One who summons; one who cites by authority; specifically, a petty officer formerly employed to summon persons to appear in court; an apparitor. 

SUMMONS:  A warning or citation to appear in court; a written notification signed by the proper officer, to be served on a person, warning him to appear in court at a day specified, to answer to the plaintiff, testify as a witness, or the like.  3. (Mil.)  A demand to surrender. 

SUMMONS:  To summon. [R. or Colloq.] Swift.  SUMMUM BONUM Sum"mum bo"num. [L.] (Philos.)  The supreme or highest good, -- referring to the object of human life. 

SUMNER:  A summoner. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

SUMOOM:  See Simoom. 

SUMP:  A round pit of stone, lined with clay, for receiving the metal on its first fusion. Ray.  2. The cistern or reservoir made at the lowest point of a mine, from which is pumped the water which accumulates there.  3. A pond of water for salt works. Knight.  4. A puddle or dirty pool. [Prov. Eng.] Sump fuse, a fuse used in blasting under water.  -- Sump men (Mining), the men who sink the sump in a mine. 

SUMPH:  A dunce; a blockhead. [Scot.] 

SUMPITAN:  A kind of blowgun for discharging arrows, -- used by the savages of Borneo and adjacent islands. 

SUMPTER:  Carrying pack or burdens on the back; as, a sumpter horse; a sumpter mule. Bacon. 

SUMPTION:  The major premise of a syllogism. 

SUMPTUARY:  Relating to expense; regulating expense or expenditure. Bacon. Sumptuary laws or regulations, laws intended to restrain or limit the expenditure of citizens in apparel, food, furniture, etc.; laws which regulate the prices of commodities and the wages of labor; laws which forbid or restrict the use of certain articles, as of luxurious apparel. 

SUMPTUOSITY:  Expensiveness; costliness; sumptuousness. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

SUMPTUOUS:  Involving large outlay or expense; costly; expensive; hence, luxurious; splendid; magnificient; as, a sumptuous house or table; sumptuous apparel. We are too magnificient and sumptuous in our tables and attendance. Atterbury. She spoke, and turned her sumptuous head, with eyes Of shining expectation fixed on mine. Tennyson. -- Sump"tu*ous*ly, adv.  -- Sump"tu*ous*ness, n. 

SUN:  See Sunn. 

SUN:  To expose to the sun's rays; to warm or dry in the sun; as, to sun cloth; to sun grain. Then to sun thyself in open air. Dryden. 

SUNBEAM:  A beam or ray of the sun. "Evening sunbeams." Keble. Thither came Uriel, gliding through the even On a sunbeam. Milton. 

SUNBLINK:  A glimpse or flash of the sun. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SUNBONNET:  A bonnet, generally made of some thin or light fabric, projecting beyond the face, and commonly having a cape, -- worn by women as a protection against the sun. 

SUNBOW:  A rainbow; an iris. Byron. 

SUNBURN:  To burn or discolor by the sun; to tan. Sunburnt and swarthy though she be. Dryden. 

SUNBURN:  The burning or discoloration produced on the skin by the heat of the sun; tan.  SUN-BURNER Sun"-burn`er, n.  A circle or cluster of gas-burners for lighting and ventilating public buildings. 

SUNBURNING:  Sunburn; tan. Boyle. 

SUNBURST:  A burst of sunlight. 

SUNCUP:  A yellow flowered evening primrose (Taraxia, syn. Onothera, ovata) native of California. 

SUNDART:  Sunbeam. [R.] Mrs. Hemans. 

SUNDAY:  The first day of the week, -- consecrated among Christians to rest from secular employments, and to religious worship; the Christian Sabbath; the Lord's Day. Advent Sunday, Low Sunday, Passion Sunday, etc. See under Advent, Low, etc.  Syn.  -- See Sabbath. 

SUNDAY:  Belonging to the Christian Sabbath. Sunday letter. See Dominical letter, under Dominical.  -- Sunday school. See under School. 

SUNDER:  To disunite in almost any manner, either by rending, cutting, or breaking; to part; to put or keep apart; to separate; to divide; to sever; as, to sunder a rope; to sunder a limb; to sunder friends. It is sundered from the main land by a sandy plain. Carew. 

SUNDER:  To part; to separate. [R.] Shak. 

SUNDER:  A separation into parts; a division or severance. In sunder, into parts. "He breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder." Ps. xlvi. 9. 

SUNDER:  To expose to the sun and wind. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

SUNDEW:  Any plant of the genus Drosera, low bog plants whose leaves are beset with pediceled glands which secrete a viscid fluid that glitters like dewdrops and attracts and detains insects. After an insect is caught, the glands curve inward like tentacles and the leaf digests it. Called also lustwort. 

SUNDIAL:  An instrument to show the time of day by means of the shadow of a gnomon, or style, on a plate. Sundial shell (Zoöl.), any shell of the genus Solarium. See Solarium. 

SUNDOG:  A luminous spot occasionally seen a few degrees from the sun, supposed to be formed by the intersection of two or more halos, or in a manner similar to that of halos. 

SUNDOWNER:  A tramp or vagabond in the Australian bush; -- so called from his coming to sheep stations at sunset of ask for supper and a bed, when it is too late to work; -- called also traveler and swagman (but not all swagmen are sundowners).  Sundowners, -- men who loaf about till sunset, and then come in with the demand for unrefusable rations. Francis Adams.  SUN-DRIED Sun"-dried`, a.  Dried by the heat of the sun. "Sun-dried brick." Sir T. Herbert. 

SUNDRIES:  Many different or small things; sundry things. 

SUNDRILY:  In sundry ways; variously. 

SUNDROPS:  Any one of the several species of Kneiffia, esp. K. fruticosa (syn. Onothera fruticosa), of the Evening-primrose family, having flowers that open by daylight. 

SUNDRYMAN:  One who deals in sundries, or a variety of articles. 

SUNFLOWER:  Any plant of the genus Helianthus; -- so called probably from the form and color of its flower, which is large disk with yellow rays. The commonly cultivated sunflower is Helianthus annuus, a native of America.  SUNFLOWER STATE Sun"flow`er State.  Kansas; a nickname. 

SUNG:  imp. & p. p. of Sing. 

SUNGLASS:  A convex lens of glass for producing heat by converging the sun's rays into a focus. "Lighting a cigar with a sunglass." Hawthorne. 

SUNGLOW:  A rosy flush in the sky seen after sunset. 

SUNK:  imp. & p. p. of Sink. Sunk fence, a ditch with a retaining wall, used to divide lands without defacing a landscape; a ha-ha. 

SUNKEN:  Lying on the bottom of a river or other water; sunk. 

SUNLESS:  Destitute or deprived of the sun or its rays; shaded; shadowed. The sunken glen whose sunless shrubs must weep. Byron. 

SUNLIGHT:  The light of the sun. Milton. 

SUNLIKE:  Like or resembling the sun. "A spot of sunlike brilliancy." Tyndall. 

SUNLIT:  Lighted by the sun. 

SUNN:  An East Indian leguminous plant (Crotalaria juncea) and its fiber, which is also called sunn hemp. [Written also sun.] 

SUNNA:  A collection of traditions received by the orthodox Mohammedans as of equal authority with the Koran. 

SUNNIAH:  One of the sect of Sunnites. 

SUNNINESS:  The quality or state of being sunny. 

SUNNITE:  One of the orthodox Mohammedans who receive the Sunna as of equal importance with the Koran. 

SUNNUD:  A charter or warrant; also, a deed of gift. [India] 

SUNNY:  See Sunfish (b). 

SUNPROOF:  Impervious to the rays of the sun. "Darksome yew, sunproof." Marston.  SUNRISE; SUNRISING Sun"rise`, Sun"ris`ing, n.  1. The first appearance of the sun above the horizon in the morning; more generally, the time of such appearance, whether in fair or cloudy weather; as, to begin work at sunrise. "The tide of sunrise swells." Keble.  2. Hence, the region where the sun rises; the east. Which were beyond Jordan toward the sunrising. Deut. iv. 47 (Rev. Ver.) Full hot and fast the Saxon rides, with rein of travel slack, And, bending o'ev his saddle, leaves the sunrise at his back. Whittier.  SUNSET; SUNSETTING Sun"set", Sun"set`ting, n.  1. The descent of the sun below the horizon; also, the time when the sun sets; evening. Also used figuratively. 'T is the sunset of life gives me mystical lore. Campbell.  2. Hence, the region where the sun sets; the west. Sunset shell (Zoöl.), a West Indian marine bivalve (Tellina radiata) having a smooth shell marked with radiating bands of varied colors resembling those seen at sunset or before sunrise; -- called also rising sun. 

SUNSHADE:  Anything used as a protection from the sun's rays. Specifically: (a) A small parasol. (b) An awning. 

SUNSHINE:  Sunshiny; bright. Shak. "Sunshine hours." Keble. 

SUNSQUALL:  Any large jellyfish.  SUN STAR Sun" star`. (Zoöl.)  See Sun star, under Sun. 

SUNSTED:  Solstice. [Obs.] "The summer sunsted." Holland. 

SUNSTONE:  Aventurine feldspar. See under Aventurine. 

SUNSTROKE:  Any affection produced by the action of the sun on some part of the body; especially, a sudden prostration of the physical powers, with symptoms resembling those of apoplexy, occasioned by exposure to excessive heat, and often terminating fatally; coup de soleil.  SUN-STRUCK Sun"-struck`, a. (Med.)  Overcome by, or affected with, sunstroke; as, sun-struck soldiers. 

SUNUP:  Sunrise. [Local, U.S.] Such a horse as that might get over a good deal of ground atwixt sunup and sundown. Cooper. 

SUNWARD:  Toward the sun. 

SUNWISE:  In the direction of the sun's apparent motion, or from the east southward and westward, and so around the circle; also, in the same direction as the movement of the hands of a watch lying face upward. 

SUP:  To take into the mouth with the lips, as a liquid; to take or drink by a little at a time; to sip. There I'll sup Balm and nectar in my cup. Crashaw. 

SUP:  A small mouthful, as of liquor or broth; a little taken with the lips; a sip. Tom Thumb had got a little sup. Drayton. 

SUP:  To eat the evening meal; to take supper. I do entreat that we may sup together. 

SUP:  To treat with supper. [Obs.] Sup them well and look unto them all. Shak. 

SUPAWN:  Boiled Indian meal; hasty pudding; mush. [Written also sepawn, sepon, and suppawn.] [Local, U.S.] 

SUPE:  A super. [Theatrical Cant]  SUPER- Su"per-. Etym: [L. super over, above; akin to Gr. sub under, and E. over. See Over, and cf. Hyper-, Sub-, Supra-, Sur-.]  1. A prefix signifying above, over, beyond, and hence often denoting in a superior position, in excess, over and above, in addition, exceedingly; as in superimpose, supersede, supernatural, superabundance.  2. (Chem.)  A prefix formerly much used to denote that the ingredient to the name of which it was prefixed was present in a large, or unusually large, proportion as compared with the other ingredients; as in calcium superphosphate. It has been superseded by per-, bi-, di-, acid, etc. (as peroxide, bicarbonate, disulphide, and acid sulphate), which retain the old meanings of super-, but with sharper definition. Cf. Acid, a., Bi-, Di-, and Per-. 

SUPER:  A contraction of Supernumerary, in sense 2. [Theatrical Cant] 

SUPERABLE:  Capable of being overcome or conquered; surmountable. Antipathies are generally superable by a single effort. Johnson. -- Su"per*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Su"per*a*bly, adv. 

SUPERABOUND:  To be very abundant or exuberant; to be more than sufficient; as, the country superabounds with corn. 

SUPERABUNDANCE:  The quality or state of being superabundant; a superabundant quantity; redundancy; excess. 

SUPERABUNDANT:  Abounding to excess; being more than is sufficient; redundant; as, superabundant zeal.  -- Su`per*a*bun"dant*ly, adv. 

SUPERACIDULATED:  Acidulated to excess. [R.] 

SUPERADD:  To add over and above; to add to what has been added; to annex, as something extrinsic. The strength of any living creature, in those external motion, is something distinct from, and superadded unto, its natural gravity. Bp. Wilkins. The peacock laid it extremely to heart that he had not the nightingale's voice superadded to the beauty of his plumes. L'Estrange. 

SUPERADDITION:  The act of adding something in excess or something extraneous; also, something which is added in excess or extraneously. This superaddition is nothing but fat. Arbuthnot. 

SUPERADVENIENT:  Coming upon; coming in addition to, or in assistance of, something. [R.] He has done bravely by the superadvenient assistance of his God. Dr. H. More. 

SUPERALIMENTATION:  The act of overfeeding, or making one take food in excess of the natural appetite for it. 

SUPERALTAR:  A raised shelf or stand on the back of an altar, on which different objects can be placed; a predella or gradino. 

SUPERANGELIC:  Superior to the angels in nature or rank. [R.] Milman. 

SUPERANNUATE:  To last beyond the year; -- said of annual plants. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SUPERANNUATION:  The state of being superannuated, or too old for office or business; the state of being disqualified by old age; decrepitude. The world itself is in a state of superannuation. Cowper. Slyness blinking through the watery eye of superannuation. Coleridge. 

SUPERBIATE:  To make (a person) haughty. [Obs. & R.] Feltham. 

SUPERCARBONATE:  A bicarbonate. [Obsoles.] 

SUPERCARBURETED:  Bicarbureted. [Written also supercarburetted.] [Obsoles.] 

SUPERCARGO:  An officer or person in a merchant ship, whose duty is to manage the sales, and superintend the commercial concerns, of the voyage. 

SUPERCARPAL:  Situated above, or in the upper part of, the carpus. 

SUPERCHARGE:  To charge (a bearing) upon another bearing; as, to supercharge a rose upon a fess. 

SUPERCHARGE:  A bearing charged upon another bearing. [R.] 

SUPERCHEMICAL:  Above or beyond chemistry; inexplicable by chemical laws. J. Le Conte. 

SUPERCHERY:  Deceit; fraud; imposition. [Obs. & R.] 

SUPERCILIARY:  Having a distinct streak of color above the eyes; as, the superciliary woodpecker. 

SUPERCILIOUS:  Lofty with pride; haughty; dictatorial; overbearing; arrogant; as, a supercilious officer; asupercilious air; supercilious behavior.  -- Su`per*cil"i*ous*ly, adv.  -- Su`per*cil"i*ous*ness, n. 

SUPERCILIUM:  The eyebrow, or the region of the eyebrows. 

SUPERCOLUMNIATION:  The putting of one order above another; also, an architectural work produced by this method; as, the putting of the Doric order in the ground story, Ionic above it, and Corinthian or Composite above this. 

SUPERCONCEPTION:  Superfetation. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

SUPERCONSEQUENCE:  Remote consequence. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SUPERCRESCENCE:  That which grows upon another growing thing; a parasite. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

SUPERCRESCENT:  Growing on some other growing thing. [R.] Johnson. 

SUPERCRETACEOUS:  Same as Supracretaceous. 

SUPERCURIOUS:  Excessively curious or inquisitive. Evelyn. 

SUPERDOMINANT:  The sixth tone of the scale; that next above the dominant; -- called also submediant. 

SUPERDREADNOUGHT:  See Dreadnought, above.  SUPEREMINENCE; SUPEREMINENCY Su`per*em"i*nence, Su`per*em"i*nen*cy, n. Etym: [L. supereminentia.]  The quality or state of being supereminent; distinguished eminence; as, the supereminence of Cicero as an orator, or Lord Chatham as a statesman. Ayliffe. He was not forever beset with the consciousness of his own supereminence. Prof. Wilson. 

SUPEREMINENT:  Eminent in a superior degree; surpassing others in excellence; as, a supereminent divine; the supereminent glory of Christ.  -- Su`per*em"i*nent*ly, adv. 

SUPEREROGANT:  Supererogatory. [Obs.] 

SUPEREROGATE:  To do more than duty requires; to perform works of supererogation; to atone (for a dificiency in another) by means of a surplus action or quality. The fervency of one man in prayer can not supererogate for the coldness of another. Milton. 

SUPEREROGATION:  The act of supererogating; performance of more than duty or necessity requires. Works of supererogation (R. C. Ch.), those good deeds believed to have been performed by saints, or capable of being performed by men, over and above what is required for their own salvation. 

SUPEREROGATIVE:  Supererogatory. 

SUPEREROGATORY:  Performed to an extent not enjoined, or not required, by duty or necessity; as, supererogatory services. Howell. 

SUPERESSENTIAL:  Essential above others, or above the constitution of a thing. J. Ellis. 

SUPERETHICAL:  More than ethical; above ethics. Bolingbroke. 

SUPEREXALT:  To exalt to a superior degree; to exalt above others. Barrow. 

SUPEREXALTATION:  Elevation above the common degree. Holyday. 

SUPEREXCELLENCE:  Superior excellence; extraordinary excellence. 

SUPEREXCELLENT:  Excellent in an uncommon degree; very excellent. Drayton. 

SUPEREXCINATION:  Excessive, or more than normal, excitation. 

SUPEREXCRESCENCE:  Something growing superfluously. 

SUPERFAMILY:  A group intermediate between a family and a suborder. 

SUPERFECUNDATION:  Fertilization of two ova, at the same menstruation, by two different acts of coition. 

SUPERFECUNDITY:  Superabundant fecundity or multiplication of the species. 

SUPERFETATE:  To conceive after a prior conception, but before the birth of the offspring. The female . . . is said to superfetate. Grew. 

SUPERFETATION:  The formation of a fetus at the result of an impregnation occurring after another impregnation but before the birth of the offspring produced by it. This is possible only when there is a double uterus, or where menstruation persists up to the time of the second impregnation. In then became a superfetation upon, and not an ingredient in, the national character. Coleridge. 

SUPERFETE:  To superfetate. [Obs.] 

SUPERFETE:  To conceive (another fetus) after a former conception. [Obs.] Howell. 

SUPERFICE:  A superficies. [Obs.] Dryden. 

SUPERFICIALIST:  One who attends to anything superficially; a superficial or shallow person; a sciolist; a smatterer. 

SUPERFICIALITY:  The quality or state of being superficial; also, that which is superficial. Sir T. Browne. 

SUPERFICIALIZE:  To attend to, or to treat, superficially, or in a shallow or slighting way. [R.] It is a characteristic weakness of the day to superficialize evil. E. P. Whipple. 

SUPERFICIARY:  One to whom a right of surface occupation is granted; one who pays quitrent for a house built upon another man's ground. 

SUPERFICIARY:  Situated or built on another man's land, as a house. 

SUPERFINENESS:  The state of being superfine. 

SUPERFINICAL:  Extremely finical. 

SUPERFLUENCE:  Superfluity. [Obs.] Hammond. 

SUPERFLUITANT:  Floating above or on the surface. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  -- Su`per*flu"i*tance, n. [Obs.] 

SUPERFLUOUS:  More than is wanted or is sufficient; rendered unnecessary by superabundance; unnecessary; useless; excessive; as, a superfluous price. Shak. An authority which makes all further argument or illustration superfluous. E. Everett. Superfluous interval (Mus.), an interval that exceeds a major or perfect interval by a semitone.  Syn.  -- Unnecessary; useless; exuberant; excessive; redundant; needless.  -- Su*per"flu*ous*ly, adv.  -- Su*per"flu*ous*ness, n. 

SUPERFLUX:  Superabundance; superfluity; an overflowing. [R.] Shak. 

SUPERFOETATION:  Superfetation. 

SUPERFOLIATION:  Excess of foliation. Sir T. Browne. 

SUPERFRONTAL:  A cloth which is placed over the top of an altar, and often hangs down a few inches over the frontal. 

SUPERFUSE:  To pour (something) over or on something else. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

SUPERHEAT:  To heat, as steam, apart from contact with water, until it resembles a perfect gas. 

SUPERHEAT:  The increase of temperature communicated to steam by superheating it. 

SUPERHEATER:  An apparatus for superheating steam. 

SUPERHIVE:  A removable upper part of a hive. The word is sometimes contracted to super. 

SUPERHUMAN:  Above or beyond what is human; sometimes, divine; as, superhuman strength; superhuman wisdom. 

SUPERIMPOSE:  To lay or impose on something else; as, a stratum of earth superimposed on another stratum.  -- Su`per*im`po*si"tion, n. 

SUPERIMPREGNATION:  The act of impregnating, or the state of being impregnated, in addition to a prior impregnation; superfetation.  SUPERINCUMBENCE; SUPERINCUMBENCY Su`per*in*cum"bence, Su`per*in*cum"ben*cy, n.  The quality or state of being superincumbent. 

SUPERINCUMBENT:  Lying or resting on something else. 

SUPERINDUCE:  To bring in, or upon, as an addition to something. Long custom of sinning superinduces upon the soul new and absurd desires. South. 

SUPERINDUCEMENT:  Superinduction. 

SUPERINDUCTION:  The act of superinducing, or the state of being superinduced. South. 

SUPERINFUSE:  To infuse over. [R.] 

SUPERINJECTION:  An injection succeeding another. 

SUPERINSPECT:  To over see; to superintend by inspection. [R.] Maydman. 

SUPERINSTITUTION:  One institution upon another, as when A is instituted and admitted to a benefice upon a title, and B instituted and admitted upon the presentation of another. Bailey. 

SUPERINTELLECTUAL:  Being above intellect. 

SUPERINTEND:  To have or exercise the charge and oversight of; to oversee with the power of direction; to take care of with authority; to supervise; as, an officer superintends the building of a ship or the construction of a fort. The king may appoint a council, who may superintend the works of this nature. Bacon.  Syn.  -- Superintend, Supervise. These words in general use are the synonymous. As sometimes used, supervise implies the more general, and superintend, the more particular and constant, inspection or direction. Among architects there is a disposition to use the word supervise in the sense of a general oversight of the main points of construction with reference to the design, etc., and to employ the word superintend to signify a constant, careful attention to all the details of construction. But this technical distinction is not firmly established. 

SUPERINTENDENCE:  The act of superintending; care and oversight for the purpose of direction; supervision. Barrow.  Syn.  -- Inspection; oversight; care; direction; control; guidance. 

SUPERINTENDENCY:  The act of superintending; superintendence. Boyle. 

SUPERINTENDENT:  Overseeing; superintending. 

SUPERINTENDENT:  One who has the oversight and charge of some place, institution, or organization, affairs, etc., with the power of direction; as, the superintendent of an almshouse; the superintendent of public works.  Syn.  -- Inspector; overseer; manager; director; curator; supervisor. 

SUPERINTENDER:  A superintendent. [R.] 

SUPERINVESTITURE:  An outer vestment or garment. [R.] Bp. Horne. 

SUPERIOR:  The head of a monastery, convent, abbey, or the like. 

SUPERIORESS:  A woman who acts as chief in a convent, abbey, or nunnery; a lady superior. 

SUPERIORITY:  The quality, state, or condition of being superior; as, superiority of rank; superiority in merit.  Syn.  -- Preëminence; excellence; predominancy; prevalence; ascendency; odds; advantage. 

SUPERIORLY:  In a superior position or manner. 

SUPERJACENT:  Situated immediately above; as, superjacent rocks. 

SUPERLATION:  Exaltation of anything beyond truth or propriety. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SUPERLATIVE:  Expressing the highest or lowest degree of the quality, manner, etc., denoted by an adjective or an adverb. The superlative degree is formed from the positive by the use of -est, most, or least; as, highest, most pleasant, least bright.  -- Su`per*la"tive*ly, adv.  -- Su`per*la"tive*ness, n. 

SUPERLUCRATION:  Excessive or extraordinary gain. [Obs.] Davenant.  SUPERLUNAR; SUPERLUNARY Su`per*lu"nar, Su`per*lu"na*ry, a.  Being above the moon; not belonging to this world; -- opposed to sublunary. The head that turns at superlunar things. Pope. 

SUPERMAN:  = Overman, above. 

SUPERMATERIAL:  Being above, or superior to, matter. 

SUPERMAXILLA:  The supermaxilla. 

SUPERMAXILLARY:  Supermaxillary. 

SUPERMEDIAL:  Above the middle. 

SUPERMUNDANE:  Being above the world; -- opposed to inframundane. Cudworth. 

SUPERMUNDIAL:  Supermundane. [Obs.] 

SUPERNACULAR:  Like supernaculum; first-rate; as, a supernacular wine. [R.] Thackeray. 

SUPERNATANT:  Swimming above; floating on the surface; as, oil supernatant on water. SUPERNATANT Su`per*na"tant, n. (Chem.)  The liquid remaining after solids suspended in a liquid have been sedimented by gravity or by centrifugation. Contrasted with the solid sediment, or (in centrifugation) the pellet. 

SUPERNATATION:  The act of floating on the surface of a fluid. Sir T. Browne. 

SUPERNATURAL:  Being beyond, or exceeding, the power or laws of nature; miraculous.  Syn.  -- Preternatural.  -- Supernatural, Preternatural. Preternatural signifies beside nature, and supernatural, above or beyond nature. What is very greatly aside from the ordinary course of things is preternatural; what is above or beyond the established laws of the universe is supernatural. The dark day which terrified all Europe nearly a century ago was preternatural; the resurrection of the dead is supernatural. "That form which the earth is under at present is preternatural, like a statue made and broken again." T. Burnet. "Cures wrought by medicines are natural operations; but the miraculous ones wrought by Christ and his apostles were supernatural." Boyle. That is supernatural, whether it be, that is either not in the chain of natural cause and effect, or which acts on the chain of cause and effect in nature, from without the chain. Bushnell. We must not view creation as supernatural, but we do look upon it as miraculous. McCosh. The supernatural, whatever is above and beyond the scope, or the established course, of the laws of nature. "Nature and the supernatural." H. Bushnell. 

SUPERNATURALISM:  The doctrine of a divine and supernatural agency in the production of the miracles and revelations recorded in the Bible, and in the grace which renews and sanctifies men, -- in opposition to the doctrine which denies the agency of any other than physical or natural causes in the case. [Written also supranaturalism.] 

SUPERNATURALIST:  One who holds to the principles of supernaturalism. 

SUPERNATURALISTIC:  Of or pertaining to supernaturalism. 

SUPERNATURALITY:  The quality or state of being supernatural. 

SUPERNATURALIZE:  To treat or regard as supernatural. 

SUPERNATURALLY:  In a supernatural manner. 

SUPERNATURALNESS:  The quality or state of being supernatural. 

SUPEROCCIPITAL:  Supraoccipital. 

SUPERORDER:  A group intermediate in importance between an order and a subclass. 

SUPERORDINATION:  The ordination of a person to fill a station already occupied; especially, the ordination by an ecclesiastical official, during his lifetime, of his successor. Fuller. 

SUPEROXIDE:  See Peroxide. [Obs.] 

SUPERPARTICULAR:  Of or pertaining to a ratio when the excess of the greater term over the less is a unit, as the ratio of 1 to 2, or of 3 to 4. [Obs.] Hutton. 

SUPERPARTIENT:  Of or pertaining to a ratio when the excess of the greater term over the less is more than a unit, as that of 3 to 5, or 7 to 10. [Obs.] Hutton. 

SUPERPHOSPHATE:  An acid phosphate. Superphosphate of lime (Com. Chem.), a fertilizer obtained by trating bone dust, bone black, or phosphorite with sulphuric acid, whereby the insoluble neutral calcium phosphate, Ca3(PO4)2, is changed to the primary or acid calcium phosphate Ca(H2PO4)2, which is soluble and therefore available for the soil. 

SUPERPHYSICAL:  Above or beyond physics; not explainable by physical laws. Something superphysical and superchemical. J. Le Conte. 

SUPERPLANT:  A plant growing on another, as the mistletoe; an epiphyte. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SUPERPLEASE:  To please exceedingly. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SUPERPLUS:  Surplus. [Obs.] Goldsmith. 

SUPERPLUSAGE:  Surplusage. [Obs.] "There yet remained a superplusage." Bp. Fell. 

SUPERPOLITIC:  More than politic; above or exceeding policy. Milton. 

SUPERPONDERATE:  To wiegh over and above. [Obs.] 

SUPERPOSABLE:  Capable of being superposed, as one figure upon another. 

SUPERPOSE:  To lay (a figure) upon another in such a manner that all the parts of the one coincide with the parts of the other; as, to superpose one plane figure on another. 

SUPERPOSITION:  The act of superposing, or the state of being superposed; as, the superposition of rocks; the superposition of one plane figure on another, in geometry. 

SUPERPRAISE:  To praise to excess. To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts. Shak. 

SUPERPROPORTION:  Overplus or excess of proportion. Sir K. Digby. 

SUPERPURGATION:  Excessive purgation. Wiseman. 

SUPERREFLECTION:  The reflection of a reflected image or sound. [R.] Bacon. 

SUPERREGAL:  More than regal; worthy of one greater than a king. Waterland. 

SUPERREWARD:  To reward to an excessive degree. Bacon. 

SUPERROYAL:  Larger than royal; -- said of a particular size of printing and writing paper. See the Note under Paper, n. 

SUPERSACRAL:  Situated over, or on the dorsal side of, the sacrum. 

SUPERSALIENCY:  The act of leaping on anything. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SUPERSALIENT:  Leaping upon. [Obs.] 

SUPERSALT:  An acid salt. See Acid salt (a), under Salt, n. 

SUPERSATURATE:  To add to beyond saturation; as, to supersaturate a solution. 

SUPERSATURATION:  The operation of supersaturating, or the state of being supersaturated. 

SUPERSCRIBE:  To write or engrave (a name, address, inscription, or the like) on the top or surface; to write a name, address, or the like, on the outside or cover of (anything); as, to superscribe a letter. 

SUPERSCRIPT:  Superscription. [Obs.] "I will overglance the superscript." Shak. 

SUPERSCRIPTION:  That part of a prescription which contains the Latin word recipe (Take) or the sign 

SUPERSECULAR:  Being above the world, or secular things. Bp. Hall. 

SUPERSEDE:  To omit; to forbear. 

SUPERSEDEAS:  A writ of command to suspend the powers of an officer in certain cases, or to stay proceedings under another writ. Blackstone. 

SUPERSEDURE:  The act of superseding, or setting aside; supersession; as, the supersedure of trial by jury. A. Hamilton. 

SUPERSEMINATE:  To sow, as seed, over something previously sown. [Obs.] That can not be done with joy, when it shall be indifferent to any man to superseminate what he please. Jer. Taylor. 

SUPERSEMINATION:  The sowing of seed over seed previously sown. [Obs.] Abp. Bramhall. 

SUPERSENSIBLE:  Beyond the reach of the senses; above the natural powers of perception. 

SUPERSENSITIVE:  Excessively sensitive; morbidly sensitive.  -- Su`per*sen"si*tive*ness, n. 

SUPERSENSUAL:  Supersensible. 

SUPERSERVICEABLE:  Overofficious; doing more than is required or desired. "A superserviceable, finical rogue." Shak. 

SUPERSESSION:  The act of superseding, or the state of being superseded; supersedure. The general law of diminishing return from land would have undergone, to that extent, a temporary supersession. J. S. Mill. 

SUPERSOLAR:  Above the sun. Emerson. 

SUPERSPHENOIDAL:  Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the body of the sphenoid bone. 

SUPERSPINOUS:  Supraspinuos. 

SUPERSTITIONIST:  One addicted to superstition. [Obs.] "Blind superstitionists." Dr. H. More. 

SUPERSTRAIN:  To overstrain. Bacon. 

SUPERSTRATUM:  A stratum, or layer, above another. 

SUPERSTRUCT:  To build over or upon another structure; to erect upon a foundation. This is the only proper basis on which to superstruct first innocency and then virtue. Dr. H. More. 

SUPERSTRUCTIVE:  Built or erected on something else. Hammond. 

SUPERSTRUCTOR:  One who builds a superstructure. [R.] R. North. 

SUPERSTRUCTURE:  all that part of a building above the basement. Also used figuratively. You have added to your natural endowments the superstructure of study. Dryden.  2. (Railway Engin.)  The sleepers, and fastenings, in distinction from the roadbed. 

SUPERSUBSTANTIAL:  More than substantial; spiritual. "The heavenly supersubstantial bread." Jer. Taylor. 

SUPERSUBTLE:  To subtle. Shak. 

SUPERSULPHATE:  An acid sulphate. [Obs.] 

SUPERSULPHURETED:  Supersulphurized. [Obs.] [Written also -sulphuretted.] 

SUPERSULPHURIZE:  To impregnate or combine with an excess of sulphur. 

SUPERTAX:  A tax in addition to the usual or normal tax; specif., in the United Kingdom, an income tax of sixpence for every pound in addition to the normal income tax of one shilling and twopence for every pound, imposed, by the Finance Act of 1909-1910 (c. 8, ss 66, 72), on the amount by which the  income of any person exceeds £3,000 when his total income exceeds £5,000. 

SUPERTEMPORAL:  That which is more than temporal; that which is eternal. [R.] 

SUPERTERRANEAN:  Being above ground. "Superterranean quarries." Mrs. Trollope. 

SUPERTERRENE:  Being above ground, or above the earth. [R.] 

SUPERTERRESTRIAL:  Being above the earth, or above what belongs to the earth. Buckminster. 

SUPERTONIC:  The note next above the keynote; the second of the scale. Busby. 

SUPERTRAGICAL:  Tragical to excess. 

SUPERTUBERATION:  The production of young tubers, as potatoes, from the old while still growing. 

SUPERVACANEOUS:  Serving no purpose; superfluous; needless. [Obs.] Howell. 

SUPERVENE:  To come as something additional or extraneous; to occur with reference or relation to something else; to happen upon or after something else; to be added; to take place; to happen. Such a mutual gravitation can never supervene to matter unless impressed by divine power. Bentley. A tyrany immediately supervened. Burke. 

SUPERVENIENT:  Coming as something additional or extraneous; coming afterwards. That branch of belief was in him supervenient to Christian practice. Hammond. Divorces can be granted, a mensa et toro, only for supervenient causes. Z. Swift. 

SUPERVENTION:  The act of supervening. Bp. Hall. 

SUPERVISAL:  Supervision. Walpole. 

SUPERVISE:  Supervision; inspection. [Obs.] 

SUPERVISION:  The act of overseeing; inspection; superintendence; oversight. 

SUPERVISIVE:  Supervisory. [R.] 

SUPERVISORY:  Of or pertaining to supervision; as, supervisory powers. 

SUPERVIVE:  To survive; to outlive. [Obs.] 

SUPERVOLUTE:  Having a plainted and convolute arrangement in the bud, as in the morning-glory. 

SUPINATOR:  A muscle which produces the motion of supination. 

SUPINE:  A verbal noun; or (according to C.F.Becker), a case of the infinitive mood ending in -um and -u, that in -um being sometimes called the former supine, and that in -u the latter supine. 

SUPINITY:  Supineness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SUPPAGE:  What may be supped; pottage. [Obs.] Hooker. 

SUPPALPATION:  The act of enticing by soft words; enticement. [Obs.] 

SUPPARASITATION:  The act of flattering to gain favor; servile approbation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

SUPPARASITE:  To flatter; to cajole; to act the parasite. [Obs.] Dr. R. Clerke. 

SUPPAWN:  See Supawn. 

SUPPEDANEOUS:  Being under the feet. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SUPPEDITATE:  To supply; to furnish. [Obs.] Hammond. 

SUPPEDITATION:  Supply; aid afforded. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SUPPER:  A meal taken at the close of the day; the evening meal.  Note: Supper is much used in an obvious sense, either adjectively or as the first part of a compound; as, supper time or supper-time, supper bell, supper hour, etc. 

SUPPER:  To take supper; to sup. [R.] 

SUPPER:  To supply with supper. [R.] "Kester was suppering the horses." Mrs. Gaskell. 

SUPPERLESS:  Having no supper; deprived of supper; as, to go supperless to bed. Beau. & Fl. 

SUPPLACE:  To replace. [R.] J. Bascom. 

SUPPLANTATION:  The act of supplanting or displacing. Habitual supplantation of immediate selfishness. Cloeridge. 

SUPPLANTER:  One who supplants. 

SUPPLE:  To become soft and pliant. The stones . . . Suppled into softness as they fell. Dryden.  SUPPLE-CHAPPED Sup"ple-chapped`, a.  Having a limber tongue. [R.] "A supple-chapped flatterer." Marston.  SUPPLE-JACK Sup"ple-jack`, n. (Bot.) (a) A climbing shrub (Berchemia volubilus) of the Southern United States, having a tough and pliable stem. (b) A somewhat similar tropical American plant (Paullinia Curassavica); also, a walking stick made from its stem. He was in form and spirit like a supple-jack, . . . yielding, but tough; though he bent, he never broke. W. Irving.  Note: This name is given to various plants of similar habit in different British colonies. 

SUPPLELY:  In a supple manner; softly; pliantly; mildly. Cotgrave. 

SUPPLEMENT:  The number of degrees which, if added to a specified arc, make it 180°; the quantity by which an arc or an angle falls short of 180 degrees, or an arc falls short of a semicircle.  Syn.  -- Appendix.  -- Appendix, Supplement. An appendix is that which is appended to something, but is not essential to its completeness; a supplement is that which supplements, or serves to complete or make perfect, that to which it is added. 

SUPPLEMENT:  To fill up or supply by addition; to add something to. Causes of one kind must be supplemented by bringing to bear upon them a causation of another kind. I. Taylor.  SUPPLEMENTAL; SUPPLEMENTARY Sup`ple*men"tal, Sup`ple*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. supplémentaire.]  Added to supply what is wanted; additional; being, or serving as, a supplement; as, a supplemental law; a supplementary sheet or volume. Supplemental air (Physiol.), the air which in addition to the residual air remains in the lungs after ordinary expiration, but which, unlike the residual air, can be expelled; reserve air.  -- Supplemental bill (Equity), a bill filed in aid of an original bill to supply some deffect in the latter, or to set forth new facts which can not be done by amendment. Burrill. Daniel.  -- Supplementary chords (Math.), in an ellipse or hyperbola, any two chords drawn through the extremities of a diameter, and intersecting on the curve. 

SUPPLEMENTATION:  The act of supplementing. C. Kingsley. 

SUPPLENESS:  The quality or state of being supple; flexibility; pliableness; pliancy.  SUPPLETIVE; SUPPLETORY Sup"ple*tive, Sup"ple*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. supplétif, LL. suppletivus, from L. supplere, suppletum, to fill up. See Supply.]  Supplying deficiencies; supplementary; as, a suppletory oath. 

SUPPLETORY:  That which is to supply what is wanted. Invent suppletories to excuse an evil man. Jer. Taylor. 

SUPPLIAL:  The act of supplying; a supply. "The supplial of a preposition." Fitzed. Hall. 

SUPPLIANCE:  That which supplies a want; assistance; a gratification; satisfaction. [R.] The perfume and suppliance of a minute. Shak. 

SUPPLIANCE:  Supplication; entreaty. When Greece her knee in suppliance bent. Halleck. 

SUPPLIANT:  One who supplicates; a humble petitioner; one who entreats submissively. Hear thy suppliant's prayer. Dryden. 

SUPPLICANCY:  Supplication. [R.] 

SUPPLICANT:  Entreating; asking submissively. Shak.  -- Sup"pli*cant*ly, adv. 

SUPPLICANT:  One who supplicates; a suppliant. The wise supplicant . . . left the event to God. Rogers. 

SUPPLICAT:  A petition; esp., a written one, with a certificate that the conditions have been complied with. 

SUPPLICATE:  To make petition with earnestness and submission; to implore. A man can not brook to supplicate or beg. Bacon. 

SUPPLICATINGLY:  In a supplicating manner. 

SUPPLICATION:  A religious solemnity observed in consequence of some military success, and also, in times of distress and danger, to avert the anger of the gods.  Syn.  -- Entreaty; petition; solicitation; craving. 

SUPPLICATOR:  One who supplicates; a supplicant. 

SUPPLICATORY:  Containing supplication; humble; earnest. 

SUPPLIER:  One who supplies. 

SUPPLY:  Serving to contain, deliver, or regulate a supply of anything; as, a supply tank or valve. Supply system (Zoöl.), the system of tubes and canals in sponges by means of which food and water are absorbed. See Illust. of Spongiæ. 

SUPPLYANT:  Supplying or aiding; auxiliary; suppletory. [Obs.] Shak. 

SUPPLYMENT:  A supplying or furnishing; supply. [Obs.] Shak. 

SUPPORTABLE:  Capable of being supported, maintained, or endured; endurable.  -- Sup*port"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Sup*port"a*bly, adv. 

SUPPORTANCE:  Support. [Obs.] Shak. 

SUPPORTATION:  Maintenance; support. [Obs.] Chaucer. Bacon. 

SUPPORTER:  A knee placed under the cathead.  4. (Her.)  A figure, sometimes of a man, but commonly of some animal, placed on either side of an escutcheon, and exterior to it. Usually, both supporters of an escutcheon are similar figures.  5. (Med.)  A broad band or truss for supporting the abdomen or some other part or organ. 

SUPPORTFUL:  Abounding with support. [Obs.] Chapman. 

SUPPORTLESS:  Having no support. Milton. 

SUPPORTMENT:  Support. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

SUPPORTRESS:  A female supporter. [R.] You are my gracious patroness and supportress. Massinger. 

SUPPOSABLE:  Capable of being supposed, or imagined to exist; as, that is not a supposable case.  -- Sup*pos"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Sup*pos"a*bly, adv. 

SUPPOSAL:  The act of supposing; also, that which is supposed; supposition; opinion. Shak. Interest, with a Jew, never proceeds but upon supposal, at least, of a firm and sufficient bottom. South. 

SUPPOSE:  To make supposition; to think; to be of opinion. Acts ii. 15. 

SUPPOSE:  Supposition. [Obs.] Shak. "A base suppose that he is honest." Dryden. 

SUPPOSEER:  One who supposes. 

SUPPOSITIONAL:  Resting on supposition; hypothetical; conjectural; supposed. South. 

SUPPOSITIVE:  Including or implying supposition, or hypothesis; supposed.  -- Sup*pos"i*tive*ly, adv. Hammond. 

SUPPOSITIVE:  A word denoting or implying supposition, as the words if, granting, provided, etc. Harris. 

SUPPOSITOR:  An apparatus for the introduction of suppositories into the rectum. 

SUPPOSITORY:  A pill or bolus for introduction into the rectum; esp., a cylinder or cone of medicated cacao butter. 

SUPPOSURE:  Supposition; hypothesis; conjecture. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

SUPPRESSIBLE:  That may be suppressed. 

SUPPRESSION:  Complete stoppage of a natural secretion or excretion; as, suppression of urine; -- used in contradiction to retention, which signifies that the secretion or excretion is retained without expulsion. Quain.  3. (Gram.)  Omission; as, the suppression of a word.  Syn.  -- Overthrow; destruction; concealment; repression; detention; retention; obstruction. 

SUPPRESSIVE:  Tending to suppress; subduing; concealing. 

SUPPRESSOR:  One who suppresses. 

SUPPRISE:  To surprise. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SUPPURANT:  A suppurative. 

SUPPURATE:  To generate pus; as, a boil or abscess suppurates. 

SUPPURATE:  To cause to generate pus; as, to suppurate a sore. Arbuthnot. 

SUPPURATIVE:  Tending to suppurate; promoting suppuration. Suppurative fever (Med.), pyæmia. 

SUPPURATIVE:  A suppurative medicine. 

SUPPUTATE:  To suppute. [Obs.] 

SUPPUTATION:  Reckoning; account. [Obs.] 

SUPPUTE:  To reckon; to compute; to suppose; to impute. [Obs.] Drayton. 

SUPRA:  Over; above; before; also, beyond; besides; -- much used as a prefix.  SUPRA-ACROMIAL Su`pra-a*cro"mi*al, a. (Anat.)  Situated above the acromial process of the scapula.  SUPRA-ANGULAR Su`pra-an"gu*lar, a. (Anat.)  See Surangular.  SUPRA-AURICULAR Su`pra-au*ric"u*lar, a. (Zoöl.)  Situated above the ear coverts, or auriculars; -- said of certain feathers of birds.  -- n.  A supra-auricular feather.  SUPRA-AXILLARY Su"pra-ax"il*la*ry, a. (Bot.)  Growing above the axil; inserted above the axil, as a peduncle. See Suprafoliaceous. 

SUPRABRANCHIAL:  Situated above the branchiæ; -- applied especially to the upper division of the gill cavity of bivalve mollusks.  SUPRACHOROID; SUPRACHOROIDAL Su`pra*cho"roid, Su`pra*cho*roid"al, a. (Anat.)  Situated above the choroid; -- applied to the layer of the choroid coat of the eyeball next to the sclerotic. 

SUPRACILIARY:  Superciliary. 

SUPRACLAVICLE:  A bone which usually connects the clavicle with the post- temporal in the pectorial arch of fishes. 

SUPRACLAVICULAR:  Situated above a condyle or condyles. 

SUPRACOSTAL:  Situated above, or on the outside of, the ribs. 

SUPRACRANIAL:  Situated above, or in the roof of, the cranium. 

SUPRACRETACEOUS:  Lying above the chalk; Supercretaceous. 

SUPRADECOMPOUND:  More than decompound; divided many times.  SUPRA-ESOPHAGAL; SUPRA-ESOPHAGEAL Su`pra-e*soph"a*gal, Su`pra-e`so*phag"e*al, a. (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the esophagus; as, the supra-esophageal ganglion of Crustacea. [Written also supra- oesophagal, and supra-oesophageal.]  SUPRA-ETHMOID Su`pra-eth"moid, a. (Anat.)  Above, or on the dorsal side of, the ethmoid bone or cartilage. 

SUPRAFOLIACEOUS:  Inserted into the stem above the leaf, petiole, or axil, as a peduncle or flower. 

SUPRAGLOTIC:  Situated above the glottis; -- applied to that part of the cavity of the larynx above the true vocal cords. 

SUPRAHEPATIC:  Situated over, or on the dorsal side of, the liver; -- applied to the branches of the hepatic veins. 

SUPRAHYOID:  Hyomental.  SUPRA-ILIUM Su`pra-il"i*um, n. (Anat.)  The cartilaginous cap at the sacral end of the ilium of some animals. 

SUPRALAPSARIAN:  One of that class of Calvinists who believed that God's decree of election determined that man should fall, in order that the opportunity might be furnished of securing the redemption of a part of the race, the decree of salvation being conceived of as formed before or beyond, and not after or following, the lapse, or fall. Cf. Infralapsarian. 

SUPRALAPSARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Supralapsarians, or their doctrine. 

SUPRALAPSARIANISM:  The doctrine, belief, or principles of the Supralapsarians. 

SUPRALAPSARY:  Supralapsarian. 

SUPRALAPSARY:  A Supralapsarian. 

SUPRALORAL:  Situated above the lores; as, the supraloral feathers of a bird.  -- n.  A supraloral feather.  SUPRALUNAR; SUPRALUNARY Su`pra*lu"nar, Su`pra*lu"na*ry, a.  Beyond the moon; hence, very lofty. 

SUPRAMAXILLA:  The upper jaw or maxilla. 

SUPRAMUNDANE:  Being or situated above the world or above our system; celestial. 

SUPRANATURALISM:  The state of being supernatural; belief in supernatural agency or revelation; supernaturalism. 

SUPRANATURALIST:  A supernaturalist.  SUPRANATURALIST; SUPRANATURALISTIC Su`pra*nat"u*ral*ist, Su`pra*nat`u*ral*is"tic, a.  Of or pertaining to supernaturalism; supernaturalistic. 

SUPRAOCCIPITAL:  Situated over, or in the upper part of, the occiput; of or pertaining to the supraoccipital bone.  -- n.  The supraoccipital bone. Supraoccipital bone (Anat.), a bone on the dorsal side of the great foramen of the skull, usually forming a part of the occipital in the adult, but distinct in the young. 

SUPRAOCULAR:  Above the eyes; -- said of certain scales of fishes and reptiles.  SUPRA-OESOPHAGAL Su`pra-oe*soph"a*gal, a. (Anat.)  See Supra-esophagal.  SUPRAORBITAL; SUPRAORBITAR Su`pra*or"bit*al, Su`pra*or"bit*ar, a. (Anat.)  Situated above the orbit of the eye. Supraorbital point (Anat.), the middle point of the supraorbital line, which is a line drawn across the narrowest part of the forehead, separating the face from the cranium; the ophryon. 

SUPRAPEDAL:  Situated above the foot of a mollusk; as, the suprapedal gland. 

SUPRAPROTEST:  An acceptance of a bill by a third person after protest for nonacceptance by the drawee. Burrill.  SUPRAPUBIAN; SUPRAPUBIC Su`pra*pu"bi*an, Su`pra*pu"bic, a. (Anat.)  Situated above, or anterior to, the pubic bone. 

SUPRARENAL:  Situated above, or anterior to, the kidneys.  -- n.  A suprarenal capsule. Suprarenal capsules (Anat.), two small bodies of unknown function in front of, or near, the kidneys in most vertebrates. Also called renal capsules, and suprarenal bodies.  SUPRASCALPULAR; SUPRASCALPULARY Su`pra*scalp"u*lar, Su`pra*scalp"u*la*ry, a. (Anat.)  Situated above, or on the anterior side of, the scapula. 

SUPRASPHENOIDAL:  Situated above the sphenoidal bone; as, the suprasphenoidal appendage, or pituitary body. 

SUPRASPINAL:  Situated above a spine or spines; especially, situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the neural spines of the vertebral column, or above, or in front of, the spine of the scapula. 

SUPRASTAPEDIAL:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, that part of the columella of the ear which projects above the connection with the stapes, as in many animals.  -- n.  The suprastapedial part of the columella. 

SUPRASTERNAL:  Situated above, or anterior to, the sternum. 

SUPRATEMPORAL:  Situated above the temporal bone or temporal fossa.  -- n.  A supratemporal bone. 

SUPRATROCHLEAR:  Situated over or above a trochlea or trochlear surface; -- applied esp. to one of the subdivisions of the trigeminal nerve. 

SUPRAVAGINAL:  Situated above or outside a sheath or vaginal membrane. 

SUPRAVISION:  Supervision. [Obs.] 

SUPRAVISOR:  A supervisor. [Obs.] 

SUPRAVULGAR:  Being above the vulgar or common people. [R.] Collier. 

SUPREMACY:  The state of being supreme, or in the highest station of power; highest or supreme authority or power; as, the supremacy of a king or a parliament. The usurped power of the pope being destroyed, the crown was restored to its supremacy over spiritual men and causes. Blackstone. Oath supremacy, an oath which acknowledges the supremacy of the sovereign in spiritual affairs, and renounced or abjures the supremacy of the pope in ecclesiastical or temporal affairs. [Eng.] Brande & C. 

SUPREME:  Situated at the highest part or point. The Supreme, the Almighty; God. 

SUPREMELY:  In a supreme manner. 

SUPREMITY:  Supremacy. [Obs.] Fuller.  SUR- Sur-. Etym: [F. sur over, above, contr. fr. L. super, supra. See Super-.]  A prefix signifying over, above, beyond, upon. 

SURA:  One of the sections or chapters of the Koran, which are one hundred and fourteen in number. 

SURADANNI:  A valuable kind of wood obtained on the shores of the Demerara River in South America, much used for timbers, rails, naves and fellies of wheels, and the like. 

SURADDITION:  Something added or appended, as to a name. [Obs.] Shak. 

SURAH:  A soft twilled silk fabric much used for women's dresses; -- called also surah silk. 

SURAL:  Of or pertaining to the calf of the leg; as, the sural arteries. 

SURANCE:  Assurance. [Obs.] Shak. 

SURANGULAR:  Above the angular bone; supra-angular; -- applied to a bone of the lower jaw in many reptiles and birds.  -- n.  The surangular bone. 

SURBASE:  A cornice, or series of moldings, on the top of the base of a pedestal, podium, etc. See Illust. of Column.  2. A board or group of moldings running round a room on a level with the tops of the chair backs. Knight. 

SURBASED:  Having the vertical height from springing line to crown less than the half span; -- said of an arch; as, a segmental arch is surbased. 

SURBEAT:  Same as Surbate. [Obs.] 

SURBED:  To set edgewise, as a stone; that is, to set it in a position different from that which it had in the quarry. It . . . has something of a grain parallel with the horizon, and therefore should not be surbedded. Gilbert White. 

SURBET:  Same as Surbate. [Obs.] 

SURBET:  Surbated; bruised. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SURCEASE:  Cessation; stop; end. "Not desire, but its surcease." Longfellow. It is time that there were an end and surcease made of this immodest and deformed manner of writing. Bacon. 

SURCEASE:  To cause to cease; to end. [Obs.] "The waves . . . their range surceast." Spenser. The nations, overawed, surceased the fight. Dryden. 

SURCEASE:  To cease. [Obs.] 

SURCEASEANCE:  Cessation. [Obs.] 

SURCHARGEMENT:  The act of surcharging; also, surcharge, surplus. [Obs.] Daniel. 

SURCHARGER:  One who surcharges. 

SURCINGLE:  The girdle of a cassock, by which it is fastened round the waist. 

SURCINGLED:  Bound with the surcingle. 

SURCLE:  A little shoot; a twig; a sucker. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

SURCLOY:  To surfeit. [Obs.] 

SURCREW:  Increase; addition; surplus. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

SURCULATE:  To purne; to trim. [Obs.] Cockeram. 

SURCULATION:  Act of purning. [Obs.] 

SURCULOSE:  Producing suckers, or shoots resembling suckers. 

SURD:  Involving surds; not capable of being expressed in rational numbers; radical; irrational; as, a surd expression or quantity; a surd number.  4. (Phonetics)  Uttered, as an element of speech, without tone, or proper vocal sound; voiceless; unintonated; nonvocal; atonic; whispered; aspirated; sharp; hard, as f, p, s, etc.; -- opposed to sonant. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§169, 179, 180. 

SURD:  A surd element of speech. See Surd, a., 4. 

SURDAL:  Same as Surd, a., 3. 

SURDINY:  A sardine. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

SURDITY:  Deafness. [Obs.] 

SURE:  In a sure manner; safely; certainly. "Great, sure, shall be thy meed." Spenser. 'T is pleasant, sure, to see one's name in print. Byron.  SURE-FOOTED Sure"-foot`ed, a.  Not liable to stumble or fall; as, a sure-footed horse. 

SUREMENT:  A making sure; surety. [Obs.] Every surement and every bond. Chaucer. 

SURENESS:  The state of being sure; certainty. For more sureness he repeats it. Woodward. The law holds with equal sureness for all right action. Emerson. 

SURESBY:  One to be sure of, or to be relied on. [Obs.] There is one which is suresby, as they say, to serve, if anything will serve. Bradford. 

SURETISHIP:  Suretyship. Prov. xi. 15. 

SURETY:  One who is bound with and for another who is primarily liable, and who is called the principal; one who engages to answer for another's appearance in court, or for his payment of a debt, or for performance of some act; a bondsman; a bail. He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it. Prov. xi. 15.  5. Hence, a substitute; a hostage. Cowper.  6. Evidence; confirmation; warrant. [Obs.] She called the saints to surety, That she would never put it from her finger, Unless she gave it to yourself. Shak. 

SURETY:  To act as surety for. [Obs.] Shak. 

SURETYSHIP:  The state of being surety; the obligation of a person to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage of another. Bouvier. 

SURF:  The swell of the sea which breaks upon the shore, esp. upon a sloping beach. Surf bird (Zoöl.), a ploverlike bird of the genus Aphriza, allied to the turnstone.  -- Surf clam (Zoöl.), a large clam living on the open coast, especially Mactra, or Spisula, solidissima. See Mactra.  -- Surf duck (Zoöl.), any one of several species of sea ducks of the genus Oidemia, especially O. percpicillata; -- called also surf scoter. See the Note under Scoter.  -- Surf fish (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of California embiotocoid fishes. See Embiotocoid.  -- Surf smelt. (Zoöl.) See Smelt.  -- Surf whiting. (Zoöl.) See under Whiting. 

SURF:  The bottom of a drain. [Prov. Eng.] 

SURFACE:  A magnitude that has length and breadth without thickness; superficies; as, a plane surface; a spherical surface.  4. (Fort.)  That part of the side which is terminated by the flank prolonged, and the angle of the nearest bastion. Stocqueler. Caustic surface, Heating surface, etc. See under Caustic, Heating, etc.  -- Surface condensation, Surface condenser. See under Condensation, and Condenser.  -- Surface gauge (Mach.), an instrument consisting of a standard having a flat base and carrying an adjustable pointer, for gauging the evenness of a surface or its height, or for marking a line parallel with a surface.  -- Surface grub (Zoöl.), the larva of the great yellow underwing moth (Triphoena pronuba). It is often destructive to the roots of grasses and other plants.  -- Surface plate (Mach.), a plate having an accurately dressed flat surface, used as a standard of flatness by which to test other surfaces.  -- Surface printing, printing from a surface in relief, as from type, in distinction from plate printing, in which the ink is contained in engraved lines. 

SURFACE:  The weight supported per square unit of surface; the quotient obtained by dividing the gross weight, in pounds, of a fully loaded flying machine, by the total area, in square feet, of its supporting surface. 

SURFACER:  A form of machine for dressing the surface of wood, metal, stone, etc.  SURFACE TENSION Sur"face ten"sion. (Physics)  That property, due to molecular forces, which exists in the surface film of all liquids and tends to bring the contained volume into a form having the least superficial area. The thickness of this film, amounting to less than a thousandth of a millimeter, is considered to equal the radius of the sphere of molecular action, that is, the greatest distance at which there is cohesion between two particles. Particles lying below this film, being equally acted on from all sides, are in equilibrium as to forces of cohesion, but those in the film are on the whole attracted inward, and tension results. 

SURFBOAT:  A boat intended for use in heavy surf. It is built with a pronounced sheer, and with a view to resist the shock of waves and of contact with the beach. 

SURFEITER:  One who surfeits. Shak.  SURFEIT-WATER Sur"feit-wa`ter, n.  Water for the cure of surfeits. [Obs.] Locke.  SURFEL; SURFLE Sur"fel, Sur"fle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Sulphur.]  To wash, as the face, with a cosmetic water, said by some to be prepared from the sulphur. [Obs.] She shall no oftener powder her hair, [or] surfel her cheeks, . . . but she shall as often gaze on my picture. Ford. 

SURFER:  The surf duck. [U. S.] 

SURFMAN:  One who serves in a surfboat in the life-saving service. 

SURFOOT:  Tired or sore of foot from travel; lamed. [Obs.] Nares. 

SURFY:  Consisting of, abounding in, or resembling, surf; as, a surfy shore. Scarce had they cleared the surfy waves That foam around those frightful caves. Moore. 

SURGE:  To slip along a windlass. 

SURGE:  To let go or slacken suddenly, as a rope; as, to surge a hawser or messenger; also, to slacken the rope about (a capstan). 

SURGEFUL:  Abounding in surges; surgy. "Tossing the surgeful tides." Drayton. 

SURGELESS:  Free from surges; smooth; calm. 

SURGENT:  Rising; swelling, as a flood. [R.] Robert Greene. 

SURGEON:  Any one of numerous species of chætodont fishes of the family Teuthidæ, or Acanthuridæ, which have one or two sharp lancelike spines on each side of the base of the tail. Called also surgeon fish, doctor fish, lancet fish, and sea surgeon. Surgeon apothecary, one who unites the practice of surgery with that of the apothecary. Dunglison.  -- Surgeon dentist, a dental surgeon; a dentist.  -- Surgeon fish. See def. 2, above.  -- Surgeon general. (a) In the United States army, the chief of the medical department. (b) In the British army, a surgeon ranking next below the chief of the medical department. 

SURGEONCY:  The office or employment of a surgeon, as in the naval or military service. 

SURGEONRY:  Surgery. [Obs.] 

SURGICAL:  Of or pertaining to surgeons or surgery; done by means of surgery; used in surgery; as, a surgical operation; surgical instruments. Surgical fever. (Med.) (a) Pyæmia. (b) Traumatic fever, or the fever accompanying inflammation. 

SURGICALLY:  By means of surgery. 

SURGY:  Rising in surges or billows; full of surges; resembling surges in motion or appearance; swelling. "Over the surgy main." Pope. 

SURICAT:  Same as Zenick. [Written also suricate, surikate.]  SURINAM TOAD Su`ri*nam" toad". (Zoöl.)  A species of toad native of Surinam. See Pipa. 

SURINTENDANT:  Superintendent. [R.] 

SURLILY:  In a surly manner. 

SURLINESS:  The quality or state of being surly. 

SURLING:  A sour, morose fellow. [Obs.] Camden. 

SURLOIN:  A loin of beef, or the upper part of the loin. See Sirloin, the more usual, but not etymologically preferable, orthography. 

SURMARK:  A mark made on the molds of a ship, when building, to show where the angles of the timbers are to be placed. [Written also sirmark.] 

SURMISABLE:  Capable of being surmised; as, a surmisable result. 

SURMISAL:  Surmise. [R.] Milton. 

SURMISE:  To imagine without certain knowledge; to infer on slight grounds; to suppose, conjecture, or suspect; to guess. It wafted nearer yet, and then she knew That what before she but surmised, was true. Dryden. This change was not wrought by altering the form or position of the earth, as was surmised by a very learned man, but by dissolving it. Woodward. 

SURMISER:  One who surmises. 

SURMISING:  from Surmise, v. 

SURMOUNTABLE:  Capable of being surmounted or overcome; superable.  -- Sur*mount"a*ble*ness, n. 

SURMOUNTED:  Having its vertical height greater than the half span; -- said of an arch.  2. (Her.)  Partly covered by another charge; -- said of an ordinary or other bearing. 

SURMOUNTER:  One who, or that which, surmounts. 

SURMULLET:  Any one of various species of mullets of the family Millidæ, esp. the European species (Millus surmulletus), which is highly prized as a food fish. See Mullet. 

SURMULOT:  The brown, or Norway, rat. 

SURNAME:  To name or call by an appellation added to the original name; to give a surname to. Another shall subscribe with his hand unto the Lord, and surname himself by the name of Israel. Isa. xliv. 5. And Simon he surnamed Peter. Mark iii. 16. 

SURNOMINAL:  Of or pertaining to a surname or surnames. 

SUROXIDATE:  To combine with oxygen so as to form a suroxide or peroxide. [Obs.] 

SUROXIDE:  A peroxide. [Obs.] 

SURPASS:  To go beyond in anything good or bad; to exceed; to excel. This would surpass Common revenge and interrupt his joy. Milton.  Syn.  -- To exceed; excel; outdo; outstrip. 

SURPASSABLE:  That may be surpassed. 

SURPASSING:  Eminently excellent; exceeding others. "With surpassing glory crowned." Milton.  -- Sur*pass"ing*ly, adv.  -- Sur*pass"ing*ness, n. 

SURPHUL:  To surfel. [Obs.] Marston. 

SURPLICE:  A white garment worn over another dress by the clergy of the Roman Catholic, Episcopal, and certain other churches, in some of their ministrations. Surplice fees (Eccl.), fees paid to the English clergy for occasional duties. 

SURPLICED:  Wearing a surplice. 

SURPLUS:  Being or constituting a surplus; more than sufficient; as, surplus revenues; surplus population; surplus words. When the price of corn falleth, men give over surplus tillage, and break no more ground. Carew. 

SURPLUSAGE:  Matter in pleading which is not necessary or relevant to the case, and which may be rejected.  3. (Accounts)  A greater disbursement than the charge of the accountant amounts to. [Obs.] Rees. 

SURPRISAL:  The act of surprising, or state of being surprised; surprise. How to secure the lady from surprisal. Milton. Because death is uncertain, let us prevent its surprisal. Barrow. 

SURPRISEMENT:  Surprisal. [Obs.] Daniel. 

SURPRISER:  One who surprises. 

SURPRISING:  Exciting surprise; extraordinary; of a nature to excite wonder and astonishment; as, surprising bravery; a surprising escape from danger.  -- Sur*pris"ing*ly, adv.  -- Sur*pris"ing*ness, n.  Syn.  -- Wonderful; extraordinary; unexpected; astonishing; striking.  SURQUEDOUS; SURQUEDROUS Sur"que*dous, Sur"que*drous, a.  Having or exhibiting surquedry; arrogant; insolent. [Obs.] Gower. James II. of Scot.  SURQUEDRY; SURQUIDRY Sur"que*dry, Sur"qui*dry, n. Etym: [OF. surcuidier to presume; sur over + cuidier to think, L. cogitare. See Sur-, and Cogitate.]  Overweening pride; arrogance; presumption; insolence. [Obs.] Chaucer. Then pay you the price of your surquedry. Spenser. 

SURREBOUND:  To give back echoes; to reëcho. [Obs.] Chapman. 

SURREBUT:  To reply, as a plaintiff to a defendant's rebutter. 

SURREBUTER:  The reply of a plaintiff to a defendant's rebutter. 

SURREIN:  To override; to exhaust by riding. [Obs.] Shak. 

SURREJOIN:  To reply, as a plaintiff to a defendant's rejoinder. 

SURREJOINDER:  The answer of a plaintiff to a defendant's rejoinder. 

SURRENDER:  To yield; to render or deliver up; to give up; as, a principal surrendered by his bail, a fugitive from justice by a foreign state, or a particular estate by the tenant thereof to him in remainder or reversion. 

SURRENDER:  To give up one's self into the power of another; to yield; as, the enemy, seeing no way of escape, surrendered at the first summons. 

SURRENDER:  The yielding of a particular estate to him who has an immediate estate in remainder or reversion. (b) The giving up of a principal into lawful custody by his bail. (c) The delivry up oh fugitives from justice by one government to another, as by a foreign state. See Extradition. Wharton. 

SURRENDEREE:  The person to whom a surrender is made. Mozley & W. 

SURRENDERER:  One who surrenders. 

SURRENDEROR:  One who makes a surrender, as of an estate. Bouvier. 

SURRENDRY:  Surrender. [Obs.] 

SURREPTITIOUS:  Done or made by stealth, or without proper authority; made or introduced fraudulently; clandestine; stealthy; as, a surreptitious passage in an old manuscript; a surreptitious removal of goods.  -- Sur`rep*ti"tious*ly, adv. 

SURREY:  A four-wheeled pleasure carriage, (commonly two-seated) somewhat like a phaeton, but having a straight bottom. 

SURROGATE:  To put in the place of another; to substitute. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

SURROGATESHIP:  The office of a surrogate. 

SURROGATION:  The act of substituting one person in the place of another. [R.] Killingbeck. 

SURROUND:  To inclose, as a body of troops, between hostile forces, so as to cut off means of communication or retreat; to invest, as a city.  Syn.  -- To encompass; encircle; environ; invest; hem in; fence about. 

SURROUND:  A method of hunting some animals, as the buffalo, by surrounding a herd, and driving them over a precipice, into a ravine, etc. [U.S.] Baird. 

SURROUNDING:  Inclosing; encircling. 

SURROUNDING:  The things which surround or environ; external or attending circumstances or conditions. 

SURROYAL:  One of the terminal branches or divisions of the beam of the antler of the stag or other large deer. 

SURSANURE:  A wound healed or healing outwardly only. [Obs.] Of a sursanure In surgery is perilous the cure. Chaucer. 

SURSEANCE:  Peace; quiet. [Obs.] Bacon. 

SURSOLID:  The fifth power of a number; as, a is the sursolid of a, or 32 that of 2. [R.] Hutton. 

SURSTYLE:  To surname. [R.]  SURSUM CORDA Sur"sum cor"da. [L. sursum upward + corda hearts.] (Eccl.)  In the Eucharist, the versicles immediately before the preface, inviting the people to join in the service by "lifting up the heart" to God. 

SURTAX:  An additional or extra tax. 

SURTAX:  To impose an additional tax on. 

SURTOUT:  A man's coat to be worn over his other garments; an overcoat, especially when long, and fitting closely like a body coat. Gay. 

SURTURBRAND:  A fibrous brown coal or bituminous wood. 

SURUCUCU:  See Bush master, under Bush. 

SURVEILLANCE:  Oversight; watch; inspection; supervision. That sort of surveillance of which . . . the young have accused the old. Sir W. Scott. 

SURVEILLANT:  One who watches over another; an overseer; a spy; a supervisor. 

SURVEILLANT:  Overseeing; watchful. 

SURVENE:  To supervene upon; to come as an addition to. [Obs.] A suppuration that survenes lethargies. Harvey. 

SURVENUE:  A sudden or unexpected coming or stepping on. [Obs.] 

SURVEYAL:  Survey. [R.] Barrow. 

SURVEYANCE:  Survey; inspection. [R.] 

SURVEYING:  That branch of applied mathematics which teaches the art of determining the area of any portion of the earth's surface, the length and directions of the bounding lines, the contour of the surface, etc., with an accurate delineation of the whole on paper; the act or occupation of making surveys. Geodetic surveying, geodesy.  -- Maritime, or Nautical, surveying, that branch of surveying which determines the forms of coasts and harbors, the entrances of rivers, with the position of islands, rocks, and shoals, the depth of water, etc.  -- Plane surveying. See under Plane, a.  -- Topographical surveying, that branch of surveying which involves the process of ascertaining and representing upon a plane surface the contour, physical features, etc., of any portion of the surface of the earth. 

SURVEYORSHIP:  The office of a surveyor. 

SURVIEW:  To survey; to make a survey of. [Obs.] "To surview his ground." Spenser. 

SURVIEW:  A survey. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. 

SURVISE:  To look over; to supervise. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SURVIVAL:  Any habit, usage, or belief, remaining from ancient times, the origin of which is often unknown, or imperfectly known. The close bearing of the doctrine of survival on the study of manners and customs. Tylor. Survival of the fittest. (Biol.) See Natural selection, under Natural.  SURVIVANCE; SURVIVANCY Sur*viv"ance, Sur*viv"an*cy, n. Etym: [F. survivance.]  Survivorship. [R.] His son had the survivance of the stadtholdership. Bp. Burnet. 

SURVIVE:  To live beyond the life or existence of; to live longer than; to outlive; to outlast; as, to survive a person or an event. Cowper. I'll assure her of Her widowhood, be it that she survive me, In all my lands and leases whatsoever. Shak. 

SURVIVE:  To remain alive; to continue to live. Thy pleasure, Which, when no other enemy survives, Still conquers all the conquerors. Sir J. Denham. Alike are life and death, When life in death survives. Longfellow. 

SURVIVENCY:  Survivorship. [R.] 

SURVIVER:  One who survives; a survivor. 

SURVIVING:  Remaining alive; yet living or existing; as, surviving friends; surviving customs. 

SURVIVOR:  The longer liver of two joint tenants, or two persons having a joint interest in anything. Blackstone. 

SURVIVORSHIP:  The right of a joint tenant, or other person who has a joint interest in an estate, to take the whole estate upon the death of other. Blackstone. Chance of survivorship, the chance that a person of a given age has of surviving another of a giving age; thus, by the Carlisle tables of mortality the chances of survivorship for two persons, aged 25 and 65, are 89 and 11 respectively, or about 8 to 1 that the elder die first. 

SUSCEPTION:  The act of taking; reception. 

SUSCEPTIVE:  Susceptible. I. Watts.  -- Sus*cep"tive*ness, n. 

SUSCEPTIVITY:  Capacity for receiving; susceptibility. [R.] Wollaston. 

SUSCEPTOR:  One who undertakes anything; specifically, a godfather; a sponsor; a guardian. Puller. Shipley. 

SUSCIPIENCY:  Admission. [R.] 

SUSCIPIENT:  Receiving; admitting. [R.] 

SUSCIPIENT:  One who takes or admits; one who receives. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

SUSCITABILITY:  Capability of being suscitated; excitability. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

SUSCITATE:  To rouse; to excite; to call into life and action. [Obs.] 

SUSCITATION:  The act of raising or exciting. [R.] A mere suscitation or production of a thing. South. 

SUSLIK:  A ground squirrel (Spermophilus citillus) of Europe and Asia. It has large cheek pouches. [Written also souslik.] 

SUSPECT:  To imagine guilt; to have a suspicion or suspicions; to be suspicious. If I suspect without cause, why then make sport at time. Shak. 

SUSPECTABLE:  That may be suspected. 

SUSPECTED:  Distrusted; doubted.  -- Sus*pect"ed*ly, adv.  -- Sus*pect"ed*ness, n. 

SUSPECTER:  One who suspects. 

SUSPECTFUL:  Apt to suspect or mistrust; full of suspicion; suspicious; as, to be suspectful of the motives of others. Milton.  -- Sus*pect"ful*ness, n. 

SUSPECTION:  Suspicion. [Obs.] 

SUSPECTIOUSNESS:  Suspiciousness; cause for suspicion. [Obs. & R.] Ld. Berners. 

SUSPEND:  To support in a liquid, as an insoluble powder, by stirring, to facilitate chemical action. To suspend payment (Com.), to cease paying debts or obligations; to fail; -- said of a merchant, a bank, etc.  Syn.  -- To hang; interrupt; delay; intermit; stay; hinder; debar. 

SUSPEND:  To cease from operation or activity; esp., to stop payment, or be unable to meet obligations or engagements (said of a commercial firm or a bank). 

SUSPENDER:  One who, or that which, suspends; esp., one of a pair of straps or braces worn over the shoulders, for holding up the trousers. 

SUSPENSATION:  The act of suspending, or the state of being suspended, especially for a short time; temporary suspension. 

SUSPENSE:  A temporary cessation of one's right; suspension, as when the rent or other profits of land cease by unity of possession of land and rent. Suspense account (Bookkeeping), an account in which receipts or disbursements are temporarily entered until their proper position in the books is determined. 

SUSPENSELY:  In suspense. [Obs.] Hales. 

SUSPENSIBILITY:  The quality or state of being suspensible. 

SUSPENSIBLE:  Capable of being suspended; capable of being held from sinking. 

SUSPENSION:  A keeping of the hearer in doubt and in attentive expectation of what is to follow, or of what is to be the inference or conclusion from the arguments or observations employed.  6. (Scots Law)  A stay or postponement of execution of a sentence condemnatory by means of letters of suspension granted on application to the lord ordinary.  7. (Mus.)  The prolongation of one or more tones of a chord into the chord which follows, thus producing a momentary discord, suspending the concord which the ear expects. Cf. Retardation. Pleas in suspension (Law), pleas which temporarily abate or suspend a suit.  -- Points of suspension (Mech.), the points, as in the axis or beam of a balance, at which the weights act, or from which they are suspended.  -- Suspension bridge, a bridge supported by chains, ropes, or wires, which usually pass over high piers or columns at each end, and are secured in the ground beyond.  -- Suspension of arms (Mil.), a short truce or cessation of operations agreed on by the commanders of contending armies, as for burying the dead, making proposal for surrender or for peace, etc.  -- Suspension scale, a scale in which the platform hangs suspended from the weighing apparatus instead of resting upon it.  Syn.  -- Delay; interruption; intermission; stop. 

SUSPENSIVE:  Tending to suspend, or to keep in suspense; causing interruption or delay; uncertain; doubtful. "In suspensive thoughts." Beaumont. "A suspensive veto." Macaulay. The provisional and suspensive attitude. J. Morley. Suspensive condition (Scots Law), a condition precedent, or a condition without the performance of which the contract can not be completed. 

SUSPENSOR:  The cord which suspends the embryo; and which is attached to the radicle in the young state; the proembryo. 

SUSPENSORIUM:  Anything which suspends or holds up a part: especially, the mandibular suspensorium (a series of bones, or of cartilages representing them) which connects the base of the lower jaw with the skull in most vertebrates below mammals. 

SUSPENSORY:  Of or pertaining to a suspensorium. 

SUSPENSORY:  That which suspends, or holds up, as a truss; specifically (Med.),  a bandage or bag for supporting the scrotum. 

SUSPICABLE:  Liable to suspicion; suspicious. [Obs.] It is a very suspicable business. Dr. H. more. 

SUSPICIENCY:  Suspiciousness; suspicion. [Obs.] Hopkins. 

SUSPICION:  To view with suspicion; to suspect; to doubt. [Obs. or Low] South. 

SUSPIRATION:  The act of sighing, or fetching a long and deep breath; a deep respiration; a sigh. Windy suspiration of forced breath. Shak. 

SUSPIRE:  To fetch a long, deep breath; to sigh; to breathe. Shak. Fireflies that suspire In short, soft lapses of transported flame. Mrs. Browning. 

SUSPIRE:  A long, deep breath; a sigh. [Obs.] 

SUSPIRED:  Ardently desired or longed for; earnestly coveted. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

SUSTAIN:  One who, or that which, upholds or sustains; a sustainer. [Obs.] I waked again, for my sustain was the Lord. Milton. 

SUSTAINABLE:  Capable of being sustained or maintained; as, the action is not sustainable. 

SUSTAINED:  Held up to a certain pitch, degree, or level; uniform; as, sustained pasion; a sustained style of writing; a sustained note in music. 

SUSTAINER:  One who, or that which, sustains. Waterland. 

SUSTAINMENT:  The act of sustaining; maintenance; support. Milton. Lowell. 

SUSTALTIC:  Mournful; -- said of a species of music among the ancient Greeks. Busby. 

SUSTENTACLE:  Sustenance. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

SUSTENTACULAR:  Supporting; sustaining; as, a sustentacular tissue. 

SUSTENTATE:  To sustain. [R.] C. Reade. 

SUSTENTATION:  The aggregate of the functions by which a living organism is maintained in a normal condition of weight and growth. Sustentation fund (Eccl.), a fund of a religious body for support of its ministers, chapels, etc.; as, the sustentation fund of the Free Church of Scotland. 

SUSTENTATIVE:  Adapted to sustain, strengthen, or corroborate; as, sustentative citations or quotations. Sustentative functions (Physiol.), those functions of the body which affect its material composition and thus determine its mass. 

SUSTENTION:  Sustentation. [R. or Colloq.] In fine images, in sustention, in irony, they surpass anything that Burke ever wrote. J. Morley.  SUSTER; SUSTRE Sus"ter, Sus"tre, n.; pl. Susters (, Sustres, or Sustren (.  Sister. [Obs.] Chaucer. There are seven sustren, that serve truth ever. Piers Plowman. 

SUSU:  See Soosoo. 

SUSURRANT:  Whispering. [R.] "The soft susurrant sigh." Poetry of Anti- Jacobin. 

SUSURRATION:  A whispering; a soft murmur. "Soft susurrations of the trees." Howell. 

SUSURRINGLY:  In the manner of a whisper. [Obs.] 

SUSURROUS:  Whispering; rustling; full of whispering sounds. [R.] 

SUSURRUS:  The act of whispering; a whisper; a murmur. De Quincey. The soft susurrus and sighs of the branches. Longfellow. 

SUTILE:  Done by stitching. [R.] Boswell. 

SUTLER:  A person who follows an army, and sells to the troops provisions, liquors, and the like. 

SUTLERSHIP:  The condition or occupation of a sutler. 

SUTLING:  Belonging to sutlers; engaged in the occupation of a sutler. Addison. 

SUTOR:  A kind of sirup made by the Indians of Arizona from the fruit of some cactaceous plant (probably the Cereus giganteus). 

SUTRA:  A body of Hindoo literature containing aphorisms on grammar, meter, law, and philosophy, and forming a connecting link between the Vedic and later Sanscrit literature. Balfour (Cyc. of India). 

SUTTEEISM:  The practice of self-immolation of widows in Hindostan. 

SUTTLE:  The weight when the tare has been deducted, and tret is yet to be allowed. M 

SUTTLE:  To act as sutler; to supply provisions and other articles to troops. 

SUTURAL:  Taking place at a suture; as, a sutural de. 

SUTURALLY:  In a sutural manner. 

SUTURATED:  Sewed or knit together; united by a suture; stitched. 

SUTURE:  The line of union, or seam, in an immovable articulation, like those between the bones of the skull; also, such an articulation itself; synarthrosis. See Harmonic suture, under Harmonic.  4. (Bot.) (a) The line, or seam, formed by the union of two margins in any part of a plant; as, the ventral suture of a legume. (b) A line resembling a seam; as, the dorsal suture of a legume, which really corresponds to a midrib.  5. (Zoöl.) (a) The line at which the elytra of a beetle meet and are sometimes confluent. (b) A seam, or impressed line, as between the segments of a crustacean, or between the whorls of a univalve shell. Glover's suture, Harmonic suture, etc. See under Glover, Harmonic, etc. 

SUTURED:  Having a suture or sutures; knit or united together. Pennant. 

SUWARROW:  The giant cactus (Cereus giganteus); -- so named by the Indians of Arizona. Called also saguaro. 

SUZERAIN:  A superior lord, to whom fealty is due; a feudal lord; a lord paramount. 

SUZERAINTY:  The dominion or authority of a suzerain; paramount authority. 

SWA:  So. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SWAB:  To clean with a mop or swab; to wipe when very wet, as after washing; as, to swab the desk of a ship. [Spelt also swob.] 

SWAB:  An epaulet. [Sailor's Slang] Marryat.  4. A cod, or pod, as of beans or pease. [Obs.] Bailey.  5. A sponge, or other suitable substance, attached to a long rod or handle, for cleaning the bore of a firearm. 

SWABBER:  To swab. [R.] 

SWABBER:  Formerly, an interior officer on board of British ships of war, whose business it was to see that the ship was kept clean.  3. Same as Swobber, 2. 

SWAD:  A thin layer of refuse at the bottom of a seam. Raymond. 

SWADDLE:  Anything used to swaddle with, as a cloth or band; a swaddling band. They put me in bed in all my swaddles. Addison. 

SWADDLEBILL:  The shoveler. [Local, U.S.] 

SWADDLER:  A term of contempt for an Irish Methodist. Shipley. 

SWADDLING:  from Swaddle, v. Swaddling band, Swaddling cloth, or Swaddling clout, a band or cloth wrapped round an infant, especially round a newborn infant. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. Luke ii. 12. 

SWAG:  Having a prominent, overhanging belly. Shak. 

SWAGBELLY:  Any large tumor developed in the abdomen, and neither fluctuating nor sonorous. Dunglison. 

SWAGE:  See Assuage. [Obs.] 

SWAGE:  A tool, variously shaped or grooved on the end or face, used by blacksmiths and other workers in metals, for shaping their work, whether sheet metal or forging, by holding the swage upon the work, or the work upon the swage, and striking with a sledge. Swage block, a perforated block of iron, having grooved sides and adapted for use in heading bolts and swaging objects of large size. 

SWAGE:  To shape by means of a swage; to fashion, as a piece of iron, by forcing it into a groove or mold having the required shape. 

SWAGGER:  To bully. [R.] Swift. 

SWAGGER:  The act or manner of a swaggerer. He gave a half swagger, half leer, as he stepped forth to receive us. W. Irving. 

SWAGGERER:  One who swaggers; a blusterer; a bully; a boastful, noisy fellow. Shak. 

SWAGGIE:  A swagman. [Australia] 

SWAGGY:  Inclined to swag; sinking, hanging, or leaning by its weight. Sir T. Browne. 

SWAGMAN:  A bushman carrying a swag and traveling on foot; -- called also swagsman, swagger, and swaggie. 

SWAGSMAN:  A swagman. [Australia] 

SWAINISH:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a swain; rustic; ignorant. "An ungentle and swainish beast." Milton.  -- Swain"ish*ness, n. Emerson. 

SWAINLING:  A little swain. [R.] 

SWAINMOTE:  A court held before the verders of the forest as judges, by the steward of the court, thrice every year, the swains, or freeholders, within the forest composing the jury. [Written also swanimote, and sweinmote.] Blackstone. 

SWAINSHIP:  The condition of a swain. 

SWAIP:  To walk proudly; to sweep along. [Prov. Eng.] Todd. 

SWAL:  Swelled. Chaucer. 

SWALE:  A valley or low place; a tract of low, and usually wet, land; a moor; a fen. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] 

SWALE:  To melt and waste away; to singe. See Sweal, v. 

SWALE:  A gutter in a candle. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWALLET:  Water breaking in upon the miners at their work; -- so called among tin miners. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWALLOW:  Any one of numerous species of passerine birds of the family Hirundinidæ, especially one of those species in which the tail is deeply forked. They have long, pointed wings, and are noted for the swiftness and gracefulness of their flight.  Note: The most common North American species are the barn swallow (see under Barn), the cliff, or eaves, swallow (see under Cliff), the white-bellied, or tree, swallow (Tachycineta bicolor), and the bank swallow (see under Bank). The common European swallow (Chelidon rustica), and the window swallow, or martin (Chelidon urbica), are familiar species.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of swifts which resemble the true swallows in form and habits, as the common American chimney swallow, or swift.  3. (Naut.)  The aperture in a block through which the rope reeves. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Swallow plover (Zoöl.), any one of several species of fork-tailed ploverlike birds of the genus Glareola, as G. orientalis of India; a pratincole.  -- Swallow shrike (Zoöl.), any one of several species of East Indian and Asiatic birds of the family Artamiidæ, allied to the shrikes but similar to swallows in appearance and habits. The ashy swallow shrike (Artamus fuscus) is common in India.  -- Swallow warbler (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of East Indian and Australian singing birds of the genus Dicæum. They are allied to the honeysuckers. 

SWALLOW:  To perform the act of swallowing; as, his cold is so severe he is unable to swallow. 

SWALLOWER:  One who swallows; also, a glutton. Tatler. 

SWALLOWFISH:  The European sapphirine gurnard (Trigla hirundo). It has large pectoral fins. 

SWALLOWTAIL:  A kind of tenon or tongue used in making joints. See Dovetail.  2. (Bot.)  A species of willow.  3. (Fort.)  An outwork with converging sides, its head or front forming a reëntrant angle; -- so called from its form. Called also priestcap.  4. A swallow-tailed coat. This Stultz coat, a blue swallowtail, with yellow buttons. Thackeray.  5. An arrow. Sir W. Scott.  6. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of large and handsome butterflies, belonging to Papilio and allied genera, in which the posterior border of each hind wing is prolongated in the form of a long lobe.  Note: The black swallowtail, or asterias (see Papilio), the blue swallowtail, or philenor, the tiger swallowtail, or turnus (see Turnus), and the zebra swallowtail, or ajax (see under Zebra) are common American species. See also Troilus.  SWALLOW-TAILED Swal"low-tailed`, a.  1. Having a tail like that of a swallow; hence, like a swallow's tail in form; having narrow and tapering or pointed skirts; as, a swallow- tailed coat.  2. (Carp.)  United by dovetailing; dovetailed. Swallow-tailed duck (Zoöl.), the old squaw.  -- Swallow-tailed gull (Zoöl.), an Arctic gull (Xema furcata), which has a deeply forked tail.  -- Swallow-tailed hawk or kite (Zoöl.), the fork-tailed kite.  -- Swallow-tailed moth (Zoöl.), a European moth (Urapteryx sambucaria) having tail-like lobes on the hind wings. 

SWAM:  imp. of Swim. 

SWAMP:  Wet, spongy land; soft, low ground saturated with water, but not usually covered with it; marshy ground away from the seashore. Gray swamps and pools, waste places of the hern. Tennyson. A swamp differs from a bog and a marsh in producing trees and shrubs, while the latter produce only herbage, plants, and mosses. Farming Encyc. (E. Edwards, Words). Swamp blackbird. (Zoöl.) See Redwing (b).  -- Swamp cabbage (Bot.), skunk cabbage.  -- Swamp deer (Zoöl.), an Asiatic deer (Rucervus Duvaucelli) of India.  -- Swamp hen. (Zoöl.) (a) An Australian azure-breasted bird (Porphyrio bellus); -- called also goollema. (b) An Australian water crake, or rail (Porzana Tabuensis); -- called also little swamp hen. (c) The European purple gallinule.  -- Swamp honeysuckle (Bot.), an American shrub (Azalea, or Rhododendron, viscosa) growing in swampy places, with fragrant flowers of a white color, or white tinged with rose; -- called also swamp pink.  -- Swamp hook, a hook and chain used by lumbermen in handling logs. Cf. Cant hook.  -- Swamp itch. (Med.) See Prairie itch, under Prairie.  -- Swamp laurel (Bot.), a shrub (Kalmia glauca) having small leaves with the lower surface glaucous.  -- Swamp maple (Bot.), red maple. See Maple.  -- Swamp oak (Bot.), a name given to several kinds of oak which grow in swampy places, as swamp Spanish oak (Quercus palustris), swamp white oak (Q. bicolor), swamp post oak (Q. lyrata).  -- Swamp ore (Min.), big ore; limonite.  -- Swamp partridge (Zoöl.), any one of several Australian game birds of the genera Synoicus and Excalfatoria, allied to the European partridges.  -- Swamp robin (Zoöl.), the chewink.  -- Swamp sassafras (Bot.), a small North American tree of the genus Magnolia (M. glauca) with aromatic leaves and fragrant creamy-white blossoms; -- called also sweet bay.  -- Swamp sparrow (Zoöl.), a common North American sparrow (Melospiza Georgiana, or M. palustris), closely resembling the song sparrow. It lives in low, swampy places.  -- Swamp willow. (Bot.) See Pussy willow, under Pussy. 

SWAMP:  To cause (a boat) to become filled with water; to capsize or sink by whelming with water.  3. Fig.: To plunge into difficulties and perils; to overwhelm; to ruin; to wreck. The Whig majority of the house of Lords was swamped by the creation of twelve Tory peers. J. R. Green. Having swamped himself in following the ignis fatuus of a theory. Sir W. Hamilton. 

SWAMPY:  Consisting of swamp; like a swamp; low, wet, and spongy; as, swampy land. 

SWAN:  Any one of numerous species of large aquatic birds belonging to Cygnus, Olor, and allied genera of the subfamily Cygninæ. They have a large and strong beak and a long neck, and are noted for their graceful movements when swimming. Most of the northern species are white. In literature the swan was fabled to sing a melodious song, especially at the time of its death.  Note: The European white, or mute, swan (Cygnus gibbus), which is most commonly domesticated, bends its neck in an S-shaped curve. The whistling, or trumpeting, swans of the genus Olor do not bend the neck in an S-shaped curve, and are noted for their loud and sonorous cry, due to complex convolutions of the windpipe. To this genus belong the European whooper, or whistling swan (Olor cygnus), the American whistling swan (O. Columbianus), and the trumpeter swan (O. buccinator). The Australian black swan (Chenopis atrata) is dull black with white on the wings, and has the bill carmine, crossed with a white band. It is a very graceful species and is often domesticated. The South American black-necked swan (Sthenelides melancorypha) is a very beautiful and graceful species, entirely white, except the head and neck, which are dark velvety seal-brown. Its bill has a double bright rose-colored knob.  2. Fig.: An appellation for a sweet singer, or a poet noted for grace and melody; as Shakespeare is called the swan of Avon.  3. (Astron.)  The constellation Cygnus. Swan goose (Zoöl.), a bird of India (Cygnopsis cygnoides) resembling both the swan and the goose.  -- Swan shot, a large size of shot used in fowling. 

SWANG:  imp. of Swing. 

SWANG:  A swamp. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWANHERD:  One who tends or marks swans; as, the royal swanherd of England.  SWAN-HOPPING Swan"-hop`ping, n.  A corruption of Swan-upping. [Eng.] Encyc. Brit. 

SWANIMOTE:  See Swainmote.  SWANKIE; SWANKY Swank"ie, Swank"y, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schwank flexible, pliant.]  An active and clever young fellow. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

SWANLIKE:  Resembling a swan. 

SWANMARK:  A mark of ownership cut on the bill or swan. [Eng.] Encyc. Brit. 

SWANNERY:  A place where swans are bred. "The largest swannery in England." Encyc. Brit. 

SWANNY:  Swanlike; as, a swanny glossiness of the neck. Richardson. 

SWANPAN:  The Chinese abacus; a schwanpan. S. W. Williams.  SWAN'S-DOWN; SWANS-DOWN Swan's"-down`, or; Swans"-down`, n.  1. The down, or fine, soft feathers, of the swan, used on various articles of dress.  2. A fine, soft, thick cloth of wool mixed with silk or cotton; a sort of twilled fustian, like moleskin. Swan's-down cotton. See Cotton flannel, under Cotton. 

SWANSKIN:  A yearly expedition on the Thames to take up young swans and mark them, as by Companies of Dyers and Vintners; -- called also swan-hopping. [Eng.] Encyc. Brit. 

SWAP:  Hastily. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWAPE:  See Sweep, n., 12. 

SWARD:  To produce sward upon; to cover, or be covered, with sward. Mortimer.  SWARD-CUTTER Sward"-cut`ter, n. (a) A plow for turning up grass land. (b) A lawn mower. 

SWARDED:  Covered with sward. Mrs. Browning. 

SWARDY:  Covered with sward or grass. 

SWARE:  imp. of Swear. [Obs. or Poetic] Cophetua sware a royal oath. Tennyson. 

SWARF:  To grow languid; to faint. [Scot.] "To swarf for very hunger." Sir W. Scott. 

SWARF:  The grit worn away from grindstones in grinding cutlery wet. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWARM:  To climb a tree, pole, or the like, by embracing it with the arms and legs alternately. See Shin. [Colloq.] At the top was placed a piece of money, as a prize for those who could swarm up and seize it. W. Coxe. 

SWARM:  To crowd or throng. Fanshawe. 

SWARMSPORE:  One of innumerable minute, motile, reproductive bodies, produced asexually by certain algæ and fungi; a zoöspore.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the minute flagellate germs produced by the sporulation of a protozoan; -- called also zoöspore. 

SWART:  Sward. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

SWART:  To make swart or tawny; as, to swart a living part. Sir T. Browne. 

SWARTBACK:  The black-backed gull (Larus marinus); -- called also swarbie. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWARTH:  Swart; swarthy. "A swarth complexion." Chapman. 

SWARTH:  An apparition of a person about to die; a wraith. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

SWARTH:  Sward; short grass. Grassy swarth, close cropped by nibbling sheep. Cowper. 

SWARTH:  See Swath. 

SWARTHILY:  In a swarthy manner; with a tawny hue; duskily. 

SWARTHINESS:  The quality or state of being swarthy; a dusky or dark complexion; tawniness. 

SWARTHNESS:  Swarthiness. [R.] Dr. R. Clerke. 

SWARTHY:  Being of a dark hue or dusky complexion; tawny; swart; as, swarthy faces. "A swarthy Ethiope." Shak. Their swarthy hosts would darken all our plains. Addison. 

SWARTHY:  To make swarthy. [Obs.] Cowley. 

SWARTINESS:  Swarthiness. [Obs.] 

SWARTISH:  Somewhat swart, dark, or tawny. 

SWARTNESS:  The quality or state of being swart. 

SWARTY:  Swarthy; tawny. [Obs.] Burton. 

SWASH:  An oval figure, whose moldings are oblique to the axis of the work. Moxon. Swash plate (Mach.), a revolving circular plate, set obliquely on its shaft, and acting as a cam to give a reciprocating motion to a rod in a direction parallel to the shaft. 

SWASH:  Soft, like fruit too ripe; swashy. [Prov. Eng.] Pegge. 

SWASHBUCKLER:  A bully or braggadocio; a swaggering, boastful fellow; a swaggerer. Milton. 

SWASHER:  One who makes a blustering show of valor or force of arms. Shak. 

SWASHWAY:  Same as 4th Swash, 2. 

SWASHY:  Soft, like fruit that is too ripe; quashy; swash. [Prov. Eng.]  SWASTIKA; SWASTICA Swas"ti*ka, Swas"ti*ca, n. [Also suastica, svastika, etc.] [Skr. svastika, fr. svasti walfare; su well + asti being.]  A symbol or ornament in the form of a Greek cross with the ends of the arms at right angles all in the same direction, and each prolonged to the height of the parallel arm of the cross. A great many modified forms exist, ogee and volute as well as rectilinear, while various decorative designs, as Greek fret or meander, are derived from or closely associated with it. The swastika is found in remains from the Bronze Age in various parts of Europe, esp. at Hissarlik (Troy), and was in frequent use as late as the 10th century. It is found in ancient Persia, in India, where both Jains and Buddhists used (or still use) it as religious symbol, in China and Japan, and among Indian tribes of North, Central, and South America. It is usually thought to be a charm, talisman, or religious token, esp. a sign of good luck or benediction. Max MüLler distinguished from the swastika, with arms prolonged to the right, the suavastika, with arms prolonged to the left, but this distinction is not commonly recognized. Other names for the swastika are fylfot and gammadion. 

SWAT:  imp. of Sweat. Chaucer. 

SWATE:  imp. of Sweat. Thomson. 

SWATHE:  To bind with a swathe, band, bandage, or rollers. Their children are never swathed or bound about with any thing when they are first born. Abp. Abbot. 

SWATHE:  A bandage; a band; a swath. Wrapped me in above an hundred yards of swathe. Addison. Milk and a swathe, at first, his whole demand. Young. The solemn glory of the afternoon, with its long swathes of light between the far off rows of limes. G. Eliot. 

SWATHER:  A device attached to a mowing machine for raising the uncut fallen grain and marking the limit of the swath. 

SWATTE:  imp. of Sweat. Chaucer. 

SWAY:  To hoist; as, to sway up the yards.  Syn.  -- To bias; rule; govern; direct; influence; swing; move; wave; wield. 

SWAY:  Having the back hollow or sagged, whether naturally or as the result of injury or weakness; -- said of horses and other animals.  SWAY BAR Sway bar. (Vehicles)  (a) A bar attached to the hounds, in the rear of the front axle, so as to slide on the reach as the axle is swung in turning the vehicle.  (b) Either of the two bars used in coupling the front and rear sleds of a logging sled; also, the bar used to couple two logging cars.  SWAY-BRACING Sway"-bra`cing, n. (Engin.)  The horizontal bracing of a bridge, which prevents its swaying. 

SWAYED:  Bent down, and hollow in the back; sway-backed; -- said of a horse. Shak. 

SWAYFUL:  Able to sway. [R.] Rush. 

SWAYING:  An injury caused by violent strains or by overloading; -- said of the backs of horses. Crabb. 

SWEAL:  To melt and run down, as the tallow of a candle; to waste away without feeding the flame. [Written also swale.] Sir W. Scott. 

SWEAL:  To singe; to scorch; to swale; as, to sweal a pig by singeing off the hair. 

SWEAR:  To give evidence on oath; as, to swear to the truth of a statement; he swore against the prisoner.  3. To make an appeal to God in an irreverant manner; to use the name of God or sacred things profanely; to call upon God in imprecation; to curse. [I] swore little; diced not above seven times a week. Shak. To swear by, to place great confidence in a person or thing; to trust implicitly as an authority. "I simply meant to ask if you are one of those who swear by Lord Verulam." Miss Edgeworth.  -- To swear off, to make a solemn vow, or a serious resolution, to abstain from something; as, to swear off smoking. [Slang] 

SWEAR:  To put to an oath; to cause to take an oath; to administer an oath to; -- ofetn followed by in or into; as, to swear witnesses; to swear a jury; to swear in an officer; he was sworn into office.  3. To declare or charge upon oath; as, he swore treason against his friend. Johnson.  4. To appeal to by an oath. Now, by Apollo, king, Thou swear'st thy gods in vain. Shak. To swear the peace against one, to make oath that one is under the actual fear of death or bodily harm from the person, in which case the person must find sureties that he will keep the peace. 

SWEARING:  from Swear, v. Idle swearing is a cursedness. Chaucer. 

SWEAT:  The fluid which is excreted from the skin of an animal; the fluid secreted by the sudoriferous glands; a transparent, colorless, acid liquid with a peculiar odor, containing some fatty acids and mineral matter; perspiration. See Perspiration. In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread. Gen. iii. 19.  2. The act of sweating; or the state of one who sweats; hence, labor; toil; drudgery. Shak.  3. Moisture issuing from any substance; as, the sweat of hay or grain in a mow or stack. Mortimer.  4. The sweating sickness. [Obs.] Holinshed.  5. (Man.)  A short run by a race horse in exercise. Sweat box (Naut.), a small closet in which refractory men are confined.  -- Sweat glands (Anat.), sudoriferous glands. See under Sudoriferous. 

SWEATILY:  In a sweaty manner. 

SWEATINESS:  Quality or state of being sweaty. 

SWEATING:  a. & n. from Sweat, v. Sweating bath, a bath producing sensible sweat; a stove or sudatory.  -- Sweating house, a house for sweating persons in sickness.  -- Sweating iron, a kind of knife, or a piece of iron, used to scrape off sweat, especially from horses; a horse scraper.  -- Sweating room. (a) A room for sweating persons. (b) (Dairying) A room for sweating cheese and carrying off the superfluous juices.  -- Sweating sickness (Med.), a febrile epidemic disease which prevailed in some countries of Europe, but particularly in England, in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, characterized by profuse sweating. Death often occured in a few hours. 

SWEDE:  A Swedish turnip. See under Turnip. 

SWEDENBORGIAN:  One who holds the doctrines of the New Jerusalem church, as taught by Emanuel Swedenborg, a Swedish philosopher and religious writer, who was born a. d. 1688 and died 1772. Swedenborg claimed to have intercourse with the spiritual world, through the opening of his spiritual senses in 1745. He taught that the Lord Jesus Christ, as comprehending in himself all the fullness of the Godhead, is the one only God, and that there is a spiritual sense to the Scriptures, which he (Swedenborg) was able to reveal, because he saw the correspondence between natural and spiritual things. 

SWEDENBORGIAN:  Of or pertaining to Swedenborg or his views. 

SWEDENBORGIANISM:  The doctrines of the Swedenborgians. 

SWEDISH:  Of or pertaining to Sweden or its inhabitants. Swedish turnip. (Bot.) See under Turnip. 

SWEDISH:  The language of Swedes. 

SWEENY:  An atrophy of the muscles of the shoulder in horses; also, atrophy of any muscle in horses. [Written also swinney.] 

SWEEP:  To draw or drag something over; as, to sweep the bottom of a river with a net.  7. To pass over, or traverse, with the eye or with an instrument of observation; as, to sweep the heavens with a telescope. To sweep, or sweep up, a mold (Founding), to form the sand into a mold by a templet, instead of compressing it around the pattern. 

SWEEP:  A movable templet for making molds, in loam molding.  10. (Naut.) (a) The mold of a ship when she begins to curve in at the rungheads; any part of a ship shaped in a segment of a circle. (b) A large oar used in small vessels, partly to propel them and partly to steer them.  11. (Refining)  The almond furnace. [Obs.]  12. A long pole, or piece of timber, moved on a horizontal fulcrum fixed to a tall post and used to raise and lower a bucket in a well for drawing water. [Variously written swape, sweep, swepe, and swipe.]  13. (Card Playing)  In the game of casino, a pairing or combining of all the cards on the board, and so removing them all; in whist, the winning of all the tricks (thirteen) in a hand; a slam.  14. pl.  The sweeping of workshops where precious metals are worked, containing filings, etc. Sweep net, a net for drawing over a large compass.  -- Sweep of the tiller (Naut.), a circular frame on which the tiller traverses. 

SWEEPAGE:  The crop of hay got in a meadow. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWEEPER:  One who, or that which, sweeps, or cleans by sweeping; a sweep; as, a carpet sweeper. It is oxygen which is the great sweeper of the economy. Huxley. 

SWEEPING:  Cleaning off surfaces, or cleaning away dust, dirt, or litter, as a broom does; moving with swiftness and force; carrying everything before it; including in its scope many persons or things; as, a sweeping flood; a sweeping majority; a sweeping accusation.  -- Sweep"ing*ly, adv. -Sweep"ing*ness, n. 

SWEEPINGS:  Things collected by sweeping; rubbish; as, the sweepings of a street.  SWEEP-SAW Sweep"-saw`, n.  A bow-saw. 

SWEEPSTAKES:  The whole money or other things staked at a horse race, a given sum being put up for each horse, all of which goes to the winner, or is divided among several, as may be previously agreed.  3. A race for all the sums staked or prizes offered. 

SWEEPWASHER:  One who extracts the residuum of precious metals from the sweepings, potsherds, etc., of refineries of gold and silver, or places where these metals are used. 

SWEEPY:  Moving with a sweeping motion. The branches bend before their sweepy away. Dryden. 

SWEET:  Sweetly. Shak. 

SWEET:  To sweeten. [Obs.] Udall. 

SWEETBREAD:  The pancreas.  SWEET-BREASTED Sweet"-breast`ed, a.  Having a sweet, musical voice, as the nightingale. Cf. Breast, n., 6. [Obs.] 

SWEETBRIER:  A kind of rose (Rosa rubiginosa) with minutely glandular and fragrant foliage. The small-flowered sweetbrier is Rosa micrantha. 

SWEETEN:  To become sweet. Bacon. 

SWEETENER:  One who, or that which, sweetens; one who palliates; that which moderates acrimony. 

SWEETHEART:  A lover of mistress. 

SWEETHEARTING:  Making love. "To play at sweethearting." W. Black. 

SWEETISH:  Somewhat sweet.  -- Sweet"ish*ness, n. 

SWEETLY:  In a sweet manner. 

SWEETMEAT:  A boat shell (Crepidula fornicata) of the American coast. [Local, U.S.] 

SWEETNESS:  The quality or state of being sweet (in any sense of the adjective); gratefulness to the taste or to the smell; agreeableness. 

SWEETROOT:  Licorice.  SWEET-SCENTED Sweet"-scent`ed, a.  Having a sweet scent or smell; fragrant. Sweet-scented shrub (Bot.), a shrub of the genus Calycanthus, the flowers of which, when crushed, have a fragrance resembling that of strawberries.  SWEET-SOP Sweet"-sop`, n. (Bot.)  A kind of custard apple (Anona squamosa). See under Custard. 

SWEETWATER:  A variety of white grape, having a sweet watery juice; -- also called white sweetwater, and white muscadine. 

SWEETWEED:  A name for two tropical American weeds (Capraria biflora, and Scoparia dulcis) of the Figwort family. 

SWEETWORT:  Any plant of a sweet taste. 

SWEIGH:  Sway; movement. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SWEINMOTE:  See Swainmote. [Obs.] 

SWELL:  To augment gradually in force or loudness, as the sound of a note. 

SWELL:  A gradual increase and decrease of the volume of sound; the crescendo and diminuendo combined; -- generally indicated by the sign.  6. A showy, dashing person; a dandy. [Slang] Ground swell. See under Ground.  -- Organ swell (Mus.), a certain number of pipes inclosed in a box, the uncovering of which by means of a pedal produces increased sound.  -- Swell shark (Zoöl.), a small shark (Scyllium ventricosum) of the west coast of North America, which takes in air when caught, and swells up like a swellfish. 

SWELL:  Having the characteristics of a person of rank and importance; showy; dandified; distinguished; as, a swell person; a swell neighborhood. [Slang] Swell mob. See under Mob. [Slang] 

SWELLDOM:  People of rank and fashion; the class of swells, collectively. [Jocose] 

SWELLFISH:  Any plectognath fish that dilates itself, as the bur fish, puffer, or diodon. 

SWELLING:  an unnatural prominence or protuberance; as, a scrofulous swelling. The superficies of such plates are not even, but have many cavities and swellings. Sir I. Newton. 

SWELLISH:  Dandified; stylish. [Slang] 

SWELLTOAD:  A swellfish. 

SWELT:  imp. of Swell. 

SWELT:  To overpower, as with heat; to cause to faint; to swelter. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Bp. Hall. 

SWELTRY:  Suffocating with heat; oppressively hot; sultry. [R.] Evelyn. 

SWELVE:  To swallow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SWEPT:  imp. & p. p. of Sweep. 

SWERD:  See Sward, n. & v. [Obs.] 

SWERD:  Sword. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SWERVE:  To turn aside. Gauden. 

SWEVEN:  A vision seen in sleep; a dream. [Obs.] Wycliff (Acts ii. 17). I defy both sweven and dream. Chaucer. 

SWICH:  Such. [Obs.] Swich things as that I know I will declare. Chaucer. 

SWIETENIA:  A genus of meliaceous trees consisting of one species (Sweitenia Mahogoni), the mahogany tree. 

SWIFT:  Swiftly. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak. Ply swift and strong the oar. Southey. 

SWIFT:  Any one of numerous species of small, long-winged, insectivorous birds of the family Micropodidæ. In form and habits the swifts resemble swallows, but they are destitute of complex vocal muscles and are not singing birds, but belong to a widely different group allied to the humming birds.  Note: The common European swift (Cypselus, or Micropus, apus) nests in church steeples and under the tiles of roofs, and is noted for its rapid flight and shrill screams. It is called also black martin, black swift, hawk swallow, devil bird, swingdevil, screech martin, and shreik owl. The common American, or chimney, swift (Chætura pelagica) has sharp rigid tips to the tail feathers. It attaches its nest to the inner walls of chimneys, and is called also chimney swallow. The Australian swift (Chætura caudacuta) also has sharp naked tips to the tail quills. The European Alpine swift (Cypselus melba) is whitish beneath, with a white band across the breast. The common Indian swift is Cypselus affinis. See also Palm swift, under Palm, and Tree swift, under Tree.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of lizards, as the pine lizard.  4. (Zoöl.)  The ghost moth. See under Ghost.  5. Etym: [Cf. Swivel.]  A reel, or turning instrument, for winding yarn, thread, etc.; -- used chiefly in the plural.  6. The main card cylinder of a flax-carding machine. 

SWIFTER:  To tighten, as slack standing rigging, by bringing the opposite shrouds nearer. 

SWIFTFOOT:  Nimble; fleet. Mir. for Mag. 

SWIFTFOOT:  The courser. 

SWIFTLET:  Any one of numerous species of small East Indian and Asiatic swifts of the genus Collocalia. Some of the species are noted for furnishing the edible bird's nest. See Illust. under Edible. 

SWIFTLY:  In a swift manner; with quick motion or velocity; fleetly. Wyclif. 

SWIFTNESS:  The quality or state of being swift; speed; quickness; celerity; velocity; rapidity; as, the swiftness of a bird; the swiftness of a stream; swiftness of descent in a falling body; swiftness of thought, etc. 

SWIG:  A tackle with ropes which are not parallel.  3. A beverage consisting of warm beer flavored with spices, lemon, etc. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWIG:  To pull upon (a tackle) by throwing the weight of the body upon the fall between the block and a cleat. 

SWILL:  To drink in great draughts; to swallow greedily. Well-dressed people, of both sexes, . . . devouring sliced beef, and swilling pork, and punch, and cider. Smollett.  3. To inebriate; to fill with drink. I should be loth To meet the rudeness and swilled insolence Of such late wassailers. Milton. 

SWILL:  To drink greedily or swinishly; to drink to excess. South. 

SWILLER:  One who swills. 

SWILLINGS:  See Swill, n., 1. 

SWIM:  To be dizzy; to have an unsteady or reeling sensation; as, the head swims. 

SWIMBEL:  A moaning or sighing sound or noise; a sough. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SWIMMER:  A protuberance on the leg of a horse.  3. (Zoöl.)  A swimming bird; one of the natatores. Little swimmer (Zoöl.), a phalarope. 

SWIMMERET:  One of a series of flat, fringed, and usually bilobed, appendages, of which several pairs occur on the abdominal somites of many crustaceans. They are used as fins in swimming. 

SWIMMING:  The act of one who swims. 

SWIMMING:  Being in a state of vertigo or dizziness; as, a swimming brain. 

SWIMMING:  Vertigo; dizziness; as, a swimming in the head. Dryden. 

SWIMMINGLY:  In an easy, gliding manner, as if swimming; smoothly; successfully; prosperously. 

SWIMMINGNESS:  Act or state of swimming; suffusion. "A swimmingness in the eye." Congreve. 

SWINCK:  See Swink. 

SWINDLE:  To cheat defraud grossly, or with deliberate artifice; as, to swindle a man out of his property. Lammote . . . has swindled one of them out of three hundred livres. Carlyle. 

SWINDLE:  The act or process of swindling; a cheat. 

SWINDLER:  One who swindles, or defrauds grossly; one who makes a practice of defrauding others by imposition or deliberate artifice; a cheat.  Syn.  -- Sharper; rogue.  -- Swindler, Sharper. These words agree in describing persons who take unfair advantages. A swindler is one who obtains money or goods under false pretenses. A sharper is one who cheats by sharp practice, as in playing at cards or staking what he can not pay. Fraud and injustice soon follow, and the dignity of the British merchant is sunk in the scandalous appellation of a swindler. V. Knox. Perhaps you 'll think I act the same As a sly sharper plays his game. Cotton. 

SWINDLERY:  Swindling; rougery. [R.] "Swindlery and blackguardism." Carlyle. 

SWINE:  Any animal of the hog kind, especially one of the domestical species. Swine secrete a large amount of subcutaneous fat, which, when extracted, is known as lard. The male is specifically called boar, the female, sow, and the young, pig. See Hog. "A great herd of swine." Mark v. 11. Swine grass (Bot.), knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare); -- so called because eaten by swine.  -- Swine oat (Bot.), a kind of oat sometimes grown for swine.  -- Swine's cress (Bot.), a species of cress of the genus Senebiera (S. Coronopus).  -- Swine's head, a dolt; a blockhead. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- Swine thistle (Bot.), the sow thistle. 

SWINEBREAD:  The truffle. 

SWINECASE:  A hogsty. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWINECOTE:  A hogsty. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWINECRUE:  A hogsty. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWINEFISH:  The wolf fish. 

SWINEHERD:  A keeper of swine. 

SWINEPIPE:  The European redwing. [Prov. Eng.]  SWINE-POX Swine"-pox`, n. (Med.)  A variety of the chicken pox, with acuminated vesicles containing a watery fluid; the water pox. Pepys. 

SWINERY:  Same as Piggery. [R.] 

SWINESTONE:  See Stinkstone. 

SWINESTY:  A sty, or pen, for swine. 

SWING:  To turn round by action of wind or tide when at anchor; as, a ship swings with the tide.  5. To be hanged. [Colloq.] D. Webster. To swing round the circle, to make a complete circuit. [Colloq.] He had swung round the circle of theories and systems in which his age abounded, without finding relief. A. V. G. Allen. 

SWING:  To admit or turn (anything) for the purpose of shaping it; -- said of a lathe; as, the lathe can swing a pulley of 12 inches diameter. To swing a door, gate, etc. (Carp.), to put it on hinges so that it can swing or turn. 

SWINGDEVIL:  The European swift. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWINGE:  See Singe. [Obs.] Spenser. 

SWINGEBUCKLER:  A swashbuckler; a bully; a roiserer. [Obs.] Shak. 

SWINGEING:  Huge; very large. [Colloq.] Arbuthnot. Byron.  -- Swinge"ing*ly, adv. Dryden. 

SWINGEL:  The swinging part of a flail which falls on the grain in thrashing; the swiple. 

SWINGER:  One who swings or whirls. 

SWINGER:  A person who engages frequently in lively and fashionable pursuits, such as attending night clubs or discos. 4. A person who engages freely in sexual intercourse. 

SWINGLE:  A wooden instrument like a large knife, about two feet long, with one thin edge, used for beating and cleaning flax; a scutcher; - - called also swingling knife, swingling staff, and swingling wand. 

SWINGLEBAR:  A swingletree. De Quincey. 

SWINGLETAIL:  The thrasher, or fox shark. See Thrasher. 

SWINGLETREE:  A whiffletree, or whippletree. See Singletree. 

SWINGLING:  from Swingle, v. t. Swingling tow, the coarse part of flax, separated from the finer by swingling and hatcheling. 

SWINGTREE:  The bar of a carriage to which the traces are fastened; the whiffletree. 

SWINISH:  Of or pertaining to swine; befitting swine; like swine; hoggish; gross; beasty; as, a swinish drunkard or sot. "Swinish gluttony." Milton.  -- Swin"ish*ly, adv.  -- Swin"ish*ness, n. 

SWINK:  To labor; to toil; to salve. [Obs. or Archaic] Or swink with his hands and labor. Chaucer. For which men swink and sweat incessantly. Spenser. The swinking crowd at every stroke pant "Ho." Sir Samuel Freguson. 

SWINK:  Labor; toil; drudgery. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

SWINKER:  A laborer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SWINNEY:  See Sweeny. 

SWIPE:  Poor, weak beer; small beer. [Slang, Eng.] [Written also swypes.] Craig. 

SWIPLE:  That part of a flail which strikes the grain in thrashing; a swingel. [Written also swipel, and swipple.] 

SWIPPER:  Nimble; quick. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Slang] 

SWIRL:  To whirl, or cause to whirl, as in an eddy. "The river swirled along." C. Kingsley. 

SWIRL:  A whirling motion; an eddy, as of water; a whirl. "The silent swirl of bats." Mrs. Browning. 

SWISH:  To dash; to swash. 

SWISH:  Light driven spray. [Eng.] 

SWISS:  A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Switzer; the people of Switzerland. 

SWISS:  Of or pertaining to Switzerland, or the people of Switzerland. 

SWITCH:  A movable part of a rail; or of opposite rails, for transferring cars from one track to another.  3. A separate mass or trees of hair, or of some substance (at jute) made to resemble hair, worn on the head by women.  4. (Eccl.)  A mechanical device for shifting an electric current to another circuit. Safety switch (Railways), a form of switch contrived to prevent or lessen the danger of derailment of trains.  -- Switch back (Railways), an arrangement of tracks whereby elevations otherwise insurmountable are passed. The track ascends by a series of zigzags, the engine running alternately forward and back, until the summit is reached.  -- Switch board (Elec.), a collection of switches in one piece of apparatus, so arranged that a number of circuits may be connected or combined in any desired manner.  -- Switch grass. (Bot.) See under Grass. 

SWITCH:  To shift to another circuit. 

SWITCH:  To walk with a jerk. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWITCHEL:  A beverage of molasses and water, seasoned with vinegar and ginger. [U. S.] 

SWITCHING:  from Switch, v. Switching engine, a locomotive for switching cars from one track to another, and making up trains; -- called also switch engine. [U.S.] 

SWITCHMAN:  One who tends a switch on a railway. 

SWITCHY:  Whisking. [Colloq.] Coombe. 

SWITHE:  Instantly; quickly; speedily; rapidly. [Obs.] That thou doest, do thou swithe. Wyclif (John xiii. 27). 

SWITZER:  A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Swiss. 

SWIVE:  To copulate with (a woman). [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SWIVEL:  A piece, as a ring or hook, attached to another piece by a pin, in such a manner as to permit rotation about the pin as an axis.  2. (Mil.)  A small piece of ordnance, turning on a point or swivel; -- called also swivel gun. Wilhelm. Swivel bridge, a kind of drawbridge that turns round on a vertical axis; a swing bridge.  -- Swivel hook, a hook connected with the iron strap of a pulley block by a swivel joint, for readily taking the turns out of a tackle.  -- Swivel joint, a joint, the two pieces composing which turn round, with respect to each other, on a longitudinal pin or axis, as in a chain, to prevent twisting. 

SWIVEL:  To swing or turn, as on a pin or pivot.  SWIVEL-EYED Swiv"el-eyed`, a.  Squint-eyed. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWIZZLE:  To drink; to swill. Halliwell. 

SWIZZLE:  Ale and beer mixed; also, drink generally. [Prov. Eng.] 

SWOB:  See Swab. 

SWOBBER:  Four privileged cards, formerly used in betting at the game of whist. [Written also swabber.] Swift. 

SWOLLEN:  p. p. of Swell. 

SWOLLEN:  Enlarged by swelling; immoderately increased; as, swollen eyes; swollen streams. 

SWOLN:  Contraction of Swollen, p. p. Milton. 

SWOM:  imp. of Swim. Shak. 

SWOON:  To sink into a fainting fit, in which there is an apparent suspension of the vital functions and mental powers; to faint; -- often with away. The sucklings swoon in the streets of the city. Lam. ii. 11. The most in years . . . swooned first away for pain. Dryden. He seemed ready to swoon away in the surprise of joy. Tatler. 

SWOON:  A fainting fit; syncope. 

SWOONING:  from Swoon, v.  -- Swoon"ing*ly, adv. 

SWOOP:  A falling on and seizing, as the prey of a rapacious bird; the act of swooping. The eagle fell, . . . and carried away a whole litter of cubs at a swoop. L'Estrange. 

SWOOPSTAKE:  See Sweepstake. [Obs.] 

SWOOPSTAKE:  Altogether; indiscriminately. [R.] Shak. 

SWOP:  Same as Swap. Dryden. 

SWORD:  One of the end bars by which the lay of a hand loom is suspended. Sword arm, the right arm.  -- Sword bayonet, a bayonet shaped somewhat like a sword, and which can be used as a sword.  -- Sword bearer, one who carries his master's sword; an officer in London who carries a sword before the lord mayor when he goes abroad.  -- Sword belt, a belt by which a sword is suspended, and borne at the side.  -- Sword blade, the blade, or cutting part, of a sword.  -- Sword cane, a cane which conceals the blade of a sword or dagger, as in a sheath.  -- Sword dance. (a) A dance in which swords are brandished and clashed together by the male dancers. Sir W. Scott. (b) A dance performed over swords laid on the ground, but without touching them.  -- Sword fight, fencing; a combat or trial of skill with swords; swordplay.  -- Sword grass. (Bot.) See Gladen.  -- Sword knot, a ribbon tied to the hilt of a sword.  -- Sword law, government by the sword, or by force; violence. Milton.  -- Sword lily. (Bot.) See Gladiolus.  -- Sword mat (Naut.), a mat closely woven of yarns; -- so called from a wooden implement used in its manufacture.  -- Sword shrimp (Zoöl.), a European shrimp (Pasiphæa sivado) having a very thin, compressed body.  -- Sword stick, a sword cane.  -- To measure swords with one. See under Measure, v. t.  -- To put to the sword. See under Put. 

SWORDBILL:  A humming bird (Docimastes ensiferus) having a very long, slender bill, exceeding the length of the body of the bird. 

SWORDED:  Girded with a sword. Milton. 

SWORDER:  One who uses, or fights with, a sword; a swordsman; a soldier; a cutthroat. [Obs.] Shak. 

SWORDFISH:  A southern constellation. See Dorado, 1. Swordfish sucker (Zoöl.), a remora (Remora brachyptera) which attaches itself to the swordfish. 

SWORDICK:  The spotted gunnel (Murænoides gunnellus). [Prov. Eng.] 

SWORDING:  Slashing with a sword. Tennyson. 

SWORDLESS:  Destitute of a sword. 

SWORDMAN:  A swordsman. "Sinewy swordmen." Shak. 

SWORDPLAY:  Fencing; a sword fight. 

SWORDPLAYER:  A fencer; a gladiator; one who exhibits his skill in the use of the sword.  SWORD-SHAPED Sword"-shaped`, a. (Bot.)  Shaped like a sword; ensiform, as the long, flat leaves of the Iris, cattail, and the like. 

SWORDSMANSHIP:  The state of being a swordsman; skill in the use of the sword. Cowper. 

SWORE:  imp. of Swear. 

SWORN:  p. p. of Swear. Sworn brothers, originally, companions in arms who took an oath to share together good and bad fortune; hence, faithful friends.  -- Sworn enemies, determined or irreconcilable enemies.  -- Sworn friends, close friends. 

SWOUND:  See Swoon, v. & n. [Prov. Eng. or Archaic] Shak. Dryden. The landlord stirred As one awaking from a swound. Longfellow.  'SWOUNDS 'Swounds, interj. Etym: [Cf. Zounds.]  An exclamation contracted from God's wounds; -- used as an oath. [Obs. or Archaic] Shak. 

SWOWN:  Swoon. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SWUM:  imp. & p. p. of Swim. 

SWUNG:  imp. & p. p. of Swing. 

SWYTHE:  Quickly. See Swithe. [Obs.] 

SY:  Saw. Chaucer. 

SYB:  See Sib. [Obs. or Scot.] 

SYBARITE:  A person devoted to luxury and pleasure; a voluptuary.  SYBARITIC; SYBARITICAL Syb`a*rit"ic, Syb`a*rit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Sybariticus, Gr.  Of or pertaining to the Sybarites; resembling the Sybarites; luxurious; wanton; effeminate. "Sybaritic dinners." Bp. Warburton. "Sybaritical cloistres." Bp. Hall. 

SYBARITISM:  Luxuriousness; effeminacy; wantonness; voluptuousness. 

SYCAMINE:  See Sycamore. 

SYCE:  A groom. [India] 

SYCEE:  Silver, pounded into ingots of the shape of a shoe, and used as currency. The most common weight is about one pound troy. [China] McElrath. 

SYCHNOCARPOUS:  Having the capacity of bearing several successive crops of fruit without perishing; as, sychnocarpous plants. 

SYCITE:  A nodule of flint, or a pebble, which resembles a fig. [Obs.] 

SYCOCERIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the oxidation of sycoceryl alcohol. 

SYCOCERYL:  A radical, of the aromatic series, regarded as an essential ingredient of certain compounds found in the waxy resin of an Australian species of fig. 

SYCOCK:  The missel thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 

SYCONES:  A division of calcareous sponges.  Note: They usually resemble a fig, being vase-shaped with a fringed opening at the summit. The feeding cells are in ampullæ connected with radial tubes in the thickened walls of the body.  SYCONIUM; SYCONUS Sy*co"ni*um, Sy*co"nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)  A collective fleshy fruit, in which the ovaries are hidden within a hollow receptacle, as in the fig. 

SYCOPHANCY:  The character or characteristic of a sycophant. Hence: - (a) False accusation; calumniation; talebearing. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. (b) Obsequious flattery; servility. The sycophancy of A.Philips had prejudiced Mr. Addison against Pope. Bp. Warburton. 

SYCOPHANT:  To play the sycophant. 

SYCOPHANTCY:  Sycophancy. [Obs.]  SYCOPHANTIC; SYCOPHANTICAL Syc`o*phan"tic, Syc`o*phan"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.  Of or pertaining to a sycophant; characteristic of a sycophant; meanly or obsequiously flattering; courting favor by mean adulation; parasitic. To be cheated and ruined by a sycophantical parasite. South. Sycophantic servants to the King of Spain. De Quincey. 

SYCOPHANTISH:  Like a sycophant; obsequiously flattering.  -- Syc"o*phant`ish*ly, adv. Sycophantish satirists that forever humor the prevailing folly. De Quincey. 

SYCOPHANTISM:  Sycophancy. 

SYCOPHANTIZE:  To play the sycophant. 

SYCOPHANTRY:  Sycophancy. [Obs.] 

SYCOSIS:  A pustular eruption upon the scalp, or the beared part of the face, whether due to ringworm, acne, or impetigo. 

SYDEROLITE:  A kind of Bohemian earthenware resembling the Wedgwood ware. 

SYE:  Saw. Chaucer. 

SYKE:  See Sike. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

SYKER:  See Sicker. [Obs.] 

SYLE:  A young herring (Clupea harengus). [Also written sile.] But our folk call them syle, and nought but syle, And when they're grown, why then we call them herring. J. Ingelow. 

SYLLABARIUM:  A syllabary. 

SYLLABARY:  A table of syllables; more especially, a table of the indivisible syllabic symbols used in certain languages, as the Japanese and Cherokee, instead of letters. S. W. Williams. 

SYLLABE:  Syllable. [R.] B. Jonson.  SYLLABIC; SYLLABICAL Syl*lab"ic, Syl*lab"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. syllabique.]  1. Of or pertaining to a syllable or syllables; as, syllabic accent.  2. Consisting of a syllable or syllables; as, a syllabic augment. "The syllabic stage of writing." Earle. 

SYLLABICALLY:  In a syllabic manner. 

SYLLABICATE:  To form or divide into syllables; to syllabify. 

SYLLABICATION:  The act of forming syllables; the act or method of dividing words into syllables. See Guide to Pron., §275. 

SYLLABIFICATION:  Same as Syllabication. Rush. Syllabification depends not on mere force, but on discontinuity of force. H. Sweet. 

SYLLABIFY:  To form or divide into syllables. 

SYLLABISM:  The expressing of the sounds of a language by syllables, rather than by an alphabet or by signs for words. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 

SYLLABIST:  One who forms or divides words into syllables, or is skilled in doing this. 

SYLLABIZE:  To syllabify. Howell. 

SYLLABLE:  To pronounce the syllables of; to utter; to articulate. Milton. 

SYLLABUB:  Same as Syllabub. 

SYLLABUS:  A compendium containing the heads of a discourse, and the like; an abstract. 

SYLLEPSIS:  A figure of speech by which a word is used in a literal and metaphorical sense at the same time.  2. (Gram.)  The agreement of a verb or adjective with one, rather than another, of two nouns, with either of which it might agree in gender, number, etc.; as, rex et regina beati.  SYLLEPTIC; SYLLEPTICAL Syl*lep"tic, Syl*lep"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to a syllepsis; containing syllepsis.  -- Syl*lep"tic*al*ly, adv. 

SYLLIDIAN:  Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family Syllidæ.  Note: Many of the species are phosphorescent; others are remarkable for undergoing strobilation or fission and for their polymorphism. The egg, in such species, develops into an asexual individual. When mature, a number of its posterior segments gradually develop into one or more sexual individuals which finally break away and swim free in the sea. The males, females, and neuters usually differ greatly in form and structure. 

SYLLOGISM:  The regular logical form of every argument, consisting of three propositions, of which the first two are called the premises, and the last, the conclusion. The conclusion necessarily follows from the premises; so that, if these are true, the conclusion must be true, and the argument amounts to demonstration;  Note: as in the following example: Every virtue is laudable; Kindness is a virtue; Therefore kindness is laudable. These propositions are denominated respectively the major premise, the minor premise, and the conclusion.  Note: If the premises are not true and the syllogism is regular, the reasoning is valid, and the conclusion, whether true or false, is correctly derived.  SYLLOGISTIC; SYLLOGISTICAL Syl`lo*gis"tic, Syl`lo*gis"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. syllogisticus, Gr. syllogistique.]  Of or pertaining to a syllogism; consisting of a syllogism, or of the form of reasoning by syllogisms; as, syllogistic arguments or reasoning. 

SYLLOGISTICALLY:  In a syllogistic manner. 

SYLLOGIZATION:  A reasoning by syllogisms. [Obs. or R.] Harris. 

SYLLOGIZE:  To reason by means of syllogisms. Men have endeavored . . . to teach boys to syllogize, or frame arguments and refute them, without any real inward knowledge of the question. I. Watts. 

SYLLOGIZER:  One who syllogizes. 

SYLPH:  Any one of several species of very brilliant South American humming birds, having a very long and deeply-forked tail; as, the blue-tailed sylph (Cynanthus cyanurus). 

SYLPHID:  A little sylph; a young or diminutive sylph. "The place of the sylphid queen." J. R. Drake. Ye sylphs and sylphids, to your chief give ear, Fays, fairies, genii, elves, and demons, hear. Pope. 

SYLPHINE:  Like a sylph. 

SYLPHISH:  Sylphlike. Carlyle. 

SYLPHLIKE:  Like a sylph; airy; graceful. Sometimes a dance . . . Displayed some sylphlike figures in its maze. Byron. 

SYLVA:  Same as Silva. 

SYLVAN:  A fabled deity of the wood; a satyr; a faun; sometimes, a rustic. Her private orchards, walled on every side, To lawless sylvans all access denied. Pope. 

SYLVAN:  A liquid hydrocarbon obtained together with furfuran (tetrol) by the distillation of pine wood; -- called also methyl tetrol, or methyl furfuran. 

SYLVANITE:  A mineral, a telluride of gold and silver, of a steel-gray, silver-white, or brass-yellow color. It often occurs in implanted crystals resembling written characters, and hence is called graphic tellurium. [Written also silvanite.] 

SYLVANIUM:  An old name for tellurium. [Written also silvanium.] 

SYLVATE:  A salt of sylvic acid. 

SYLVATIC:  Sylvan. [R.] 

SYLVESTRIAN:  Sylvan. [R.] 

SYLVIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, pine or its products; specifically, designating an acid called also abeitic acid, which is the chief ingredient of common resin (obtained from Pinus sylvestris, and other species). 

SYLVICOLINE:  Of or pertaining to the family of warblers (Sylvicolidæ). See Warbler. 

SYLVICULTURE:  The cultivation of forest trees for timber or other purposes; forestry; arboriculture. 

SYLVICULTURIST:  One who cultivates forest trees, especially as a business.  SYLVINE; SYLVITE Syl"vine, Syl"vite, n. Etym: [So called from NL. sal digestivus sylvii potassium chloride.] (Min.)  Native potassium chloride.  SYM- Sym-.  See Syn-.  SYMAR; SYMARR Sy*mar", Sy"marr, n.  See Simar. 

SYMBAL:  See Cimbal. [Obs.] 

SYMBIOSIS:  The living together in more or less imitative association or even close union of two dissimilar organisms. In a broad sense the term includes parasitism, or antagonistic, or antipathetic, symbiosis, in which the association is disadvantageous or destructive to one of the organisms, but ordinarily it is used of cases where the association is advantageous, or often necessary, to one or both, and not harmful to either. When there is bodily union (in extreme cases so close that the two form practically a single body, as in the union of algæ and fungi to form lichens, and in the inclusion of algæ in radiolarians) it is called conjunctive symbiosis; if there is no actual union of the organisms (as in the association of ants with myrmecophytes), disjunctive symbiosis. 

SYMBIOTIC:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, or living in, a state of symbiosis. -- Sym`bi*ot"ic*al (#), a. -- Sym`bi*ot"ic*al*ly (#), adv. 

SYMBOL:  Any character used to represent a quantity, an operation, a relation, or an abbreviation.  Note: In crystallography, the symbol of a plane is the numerical expression which defines its position relatively to the assumed axes.  3. (Theol.)  An abstract or compendium of faith or doctrine; a creed, or a summary of the articles of religion.  4. Etym: [Gr.  That which is thrown into a common fund; hence, an appointed or accustomed duty. [Obs.] They do their work in the days of peace . . . and come to pay their symbol in a war or in a plague. Jer. Taylor.  5. Share; allotment. [Obs.] The persons who are to be judged . . . shall all appear to receive their symbol. Jer. Taylor.  6. (Chem.)  An abbreviation standing for the name of an element and consisting of the initial letter of the Latin or New Latin name, or sometimes of the initial letter with a following one; as, C for carbon, Na for sodium (Natrium), Fe for iron (Ferrum), Sn for tin (Stannum), Sb for antimony (Stibium), etc. See the list of names and symbols under Element.  Note: In pure and organic chemistry there are symbols not only for the elements, but also for their grouping in formulas, radicals, or residues, as evidenced by their composition, reactions, synthesis, etc. See the diagram of Benzene nucleus, under Benzene.  Syn.  -- Emblem; figure; type. See Emblem. 

SYMBOL:  To symbolize. [R.] Tennyson. 

SYMBOLIC:  See Symbolics.  SYMBOLIC; SYMBOLICAL Sym*bol"ic, Sym*bol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. symbolicus, Gr. symbolique.]  Of or pertaining to a symbol or symbols; of the nature of a symbol; exhibiting or expressing by resemblance or signs; representative; as, the figure of an eye is symbolic of sight and knowledge.  -- Sym*bol"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Sym*bol"ic*al*ness, n. The sacrament is a representation of Christ's death by such symbolical actions as he himself appointed. Jer. Taylor. Symbolical delivery (Law), the delivery of property sold by delivering something else as a symbol, token, or representative of it. Bouvier. Chitty.  -- Symbolical philosophy, the philosophy expressed by hieroglyphics. 

SYMBOLICS:  The study of ancient symbols; esp. (Theol.),  that branch of historic theology which treats of creeds and confessions of faith; symbolism; -- called also symbolic. 

SYMBOLISM:  The science of creeds; symbolics. 

SYMBOLIST:  One who employs symbols.  SYMBOLISTIC; SYMBOLISTICAL Sym`bol*is"tic, Sym`bol*is"tic*al, a.  Characterized by the use of symbols; as, symbolistic poetry. 

SYMBOLIZATION:  The act of symbolizing; symbolical representation. Sir T. Browne. 

SYMBOLIZER:  One who symbolizes. 

SYMBOLOGICAL:  Pertaining to a symbology; versed in, or characterized by, symbology. 

SYMBOLOGIST:  One who practices, or who is versed in, symbology. 

SYMBOLOGY:  The art of expressing by symbols. 

SYMBRANCHII:  An order of slender eel-like fishes having the gill openings confluent beneath the neck. The pectoral arch is generally attached to the skull, and the entire margin of the upper jaw is formed by the premaxillary. Called also Symbranchia. 

SYMMETRAL:  Commensurable; symmetrical. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

SYMMETRIAN:  One eminently studious of symmetry of parts. [R.] Sir P. Sidney. 

SYMMETRIC:  Symmetrical. 

SYMMETRICAL:  Having the organs or parts of one side correspponding with those of the other; having the parts in two or more series of organs the same in number; exhibiting a symmetry.See Symmetry, 2.  3. (Bot.) (a) Having an equal number of parts in the successive circles of floral organs; -- said of flowers. (b) Having a likeness in the form and size of floral organs of the same kind; regular.  4. (Math.)  Having a common measure; commensurable. (b) Having corresponding parts or relations.  Note: A curve or a plane figure is symmetrical with respect to a given line, and a line, surface, or solid with respect to a plane, when for each point on one side of the line or plane there is a corresponding point on the other side, so situated that the line joining the two corresponding points is perpendicular to the line or plane and is bisectad by it. Two solids are symmetrical when they are so situate dwith the respect to an intervening plane that the several points of their surfaces thus correspond to each other in position and distance. In analysis, an expression is symmetrical with respect to several letters when any two of them may change places without affecting the expression; as, the expression a2b + ab2 + a2c + ac2 + b2c + bc2, is symmetrical with respect to the letters a, b, c.  -- Sym*met"ric*al*ly, adv.  -- Sym*met"ric*al*ness, n. 

SYMMETRICIAN:  Same as Symmetrian. [R.] Holinshed. 

SYMMETRIST:  One eminently studious of symmetry of parts. Sir H. Wotton. 

SYMMETRIZE:  To make proportional in its parts; to reduce to symmetry. Burke. 

SYMMETRY:  The law of likeness; similarity of structure; regularity in form and arrangement; orderly and similar distribution of parts, such that an animal may be divided into parts which are structurally symmetrical.  Note: Bilateral symmetry, or two-sidedness, in vertebrates, etc., is that in which the body can be divided into symmetrical halves by a vertical plane passing through the middle; radial symmetry, as in echinoderms, is that in which the individual parts are arranged symmetrically around a central axis; serial symmetry, or zonal symmetry, as in earthworms, is that in which the segments or metameres of the body are disposed in a zonal manner one after the other in a longitudinal axis. This last is sometimes called metamerism.  3. (Bot.) (a) Equality in the number of parts of the successive circles in a flower. (b) Likeness in the form and size of floral organs of the same kind; regularity. Axis of symmetry. (Geom.) See under Axis.  -- Respective symmetry, that disposition of parts in which only the opposite sides are equal to each other. 

SYMPATHETICAL:  Sympathetic. 

SYMPATHETICALLY:  In a sympathetic manner. 

SYMPATHIST:  One who sympathizes; a sympathizer. [R.] Coleridge. 

SYMPATHIZER:  One who sympathizes. 

SYMPETALOUS:  Having the petals united; gamopetalous. 

SYMPHONIC:  Relating to, or in the manner of, symphony; as, the symphonic form or style of composition. 

SYMPHONIOUS:  Symphonic. 

SYMPHONIST:  A composer of symphonies. 

SYMPHONIZE:  To agree; to be in harmony. [R.] Boyle. 

SYMPHYLA:  An order of small apterous insects having an elongated body, with three pairs of thoracic and about nine pairs of abdominal legs. They are, in many respects, intermediate between myriapods and true insects. 

SYMPHYSEAL:  Of or pertaining to to symphysis. 

SYMPHYSEOTOMY:  The operation of dividing the symphysis pubis for the purpose of facilitating labor; -- formerly called the Sigualtian section. [Written also symphysotomy.] Dunglison. 

SYMPHYSOTOMY:  Symphyseotomy. 

SYMPHYTISM:  Coalescence; a growing into one with another word. [R.] Some of the phrasal adverbs have assumed the form of single words, by that symphytism which naturally attaches these light elements to each other. Earle. 

SYMPIESOMETER:  A sensitive kind of barometer, in which the pressure of the atmosphere, acting upon a liquid, as oil, in the lower portion of the instrument, compresses an elastic gas in the upper part.  Note: The column of oil of a lower part BC of a glass tube compresses hydrogen gas in the upper part AB, and is thus measured on the scale pq by the position of a surface of the oil in the tube. The scale pq is adjustable, and its index must be set to the division on the scale rs corresponding to the temperature indicated by the termometer t, in order to correct for the effects of temperature on the gas. It is sensitive, and convenient for use at sea, but inferior in accuracy to the mercurial barometer. 

SYMPLECTIC:  Plaiting or joining together; -- said of a bone next above the quadrate in the mandibular suspensorium of many fishes, which unites together the other bones of the suspensorium.  -- n.  The symplectic bone. 

SYMPLOCE:  The repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning and another at the end of successive clauses; as, Justice came down from heaven to view the earth; Justice returned to heaven, and left the earth. 

SYMPODE:  A sympodium. 

SYMPODIAL:  Composed of superposed branches in such a way as to imitate a simple axis; as, a sympodial stem. 

SYMPODIUM:  An axis or stem produced by dichotomous branching in which one of the branches is regularly developed at the expense of the other, as in the grapevine. 

SYMPOSIAC:  Of or pertaining to compotations and merrymaking; happening where company is drinking together; as, symposiac meetings. Symposiac disputations amongst my acquaintance. Arbuthnot. 

SYMPOSIAC:  A conference or conversation of philosophers at a banquet; hence, any similar gathering. 

SYMPOSIARCH:  The master of a feast. 

SYMPOSIAST:  One engaged with others at a banquet or merrymaking. Sydney Smith. 

SYMPOSION:  A drinking together; a symposium. "Our symposion last night." Sir W. Scott. 

SYMPTOM:  Any affection which accompanies disease; a perceptible change in the body or its functions, which indicates disease, or the kind or phases of disease; as, the causes of disease often lie beyond our sight, but we learn their nature by the symptoms exhibited. Like the sick man, we are expiring with all sorts of good symptoms. Swift.  2. A sign or token; that which indicates the existence of something else; as, corruption in elections is a symptom of the decay of public virtue.  Syn.  -- Mark; note; sign; token; indication.  SYMPTOMATIC; SYMPTOMATICAL Symp`tom*at"ic, Symp`tom*at"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. symptomatique, Gr.  1. Of or pertaining to symptoms; happening in concurrence with something; being a symptom; indicating the existence of something else. Symptomatic of a shallow understanding and an unamiable temper. Macaulay.  2. According to symptoms; as, a symptomatical classification of diseases.  -- Symp`tom*at"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SYMPTOMATOLOGY:  The doctrine of symptoms; that part of the science of medicine which treats of the symptoms of diseases; semeiology.  Note: It includes diagnosis, or the determination of the disease from its symptoms; and prognosis, or the determination of its probable course and event.  SYN- Syn-. Etym: [Gr.  A prefix meaning with, along with, together, at the same time. Syn- becomes sym- before p, b, and m, and syl- before l.  SYNACME; SYNACMY Syn*ac"me, Syn*ac"my, n. Etym: [NL. synacme. See Syn-, and Acme.] (Bot.)  Same as Synanthesis.  SYNAERESIS; SYNERESIS Syn*ær"e*sis, Syn*er"e*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Syn-, and Heresy.] (Gram.)  The union, or drawing together into one syllable, of two vowels that are ordinarily separated in syllabification; synecphonesis; -- the opposite of diæresis. 

SYNAGOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to a synagogue. 

SYNALEPHA:  A contraction of syllables by suppressing some vowel or diphthong at the end of a word, before another vowel or diphthong; as, th' army, for the army. [Written also synaloepha.] 

SYNALLAGMATIC:  Imposing reciprocal obligations upon the parties; as, a synallagmatic contract. Bouvier. 

SYNALLAXINE:  Having the outer and middle toes partially united; -- said of certain birds related to the creepers. 

SYNALOEPHA:  Same as Synalepha. 

SYNANGIUM:  The divided part beyond the pylangium in the aortic trunk of the amphibian heart.  -- Syn*an"gi*al, a. 

SYNANTHEROUS:  Having the stamens united by their anthers; as, synantherous flowers. 

SYNANTHESIS:  The simultaneous maturity of the anthers and stigmas of a blossom. Gray. 

SYNANTHOUS:  Having flowers and leaves which appear at the same time; -- said of certain plants. 

SYNANTHROSE:  A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose, found in the tubers of the Jerusalem artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus), in the dahlia, and other Compositæ. 

SYNAPTA:  A genus of slender, transparent holothurians which have delicate calcareous anchors attached to the dermal plates. See Illustration in Appendix. 

SYNAPTASE:  A ferment resembling diastase, found in bitter almonds. Cf. Amygdalin, and Emulsin. 

SYNAPTICULA:  One of numerous calcareous processes which extend between, and unite, the adjacent septa of certain corals, especially of the fungian corals. 

SYNARCHY:  Joint rule or sovereignity. [R.] Stackhouse. 

SYNARTESIS:  A fastening or knitting together; the state of being closely jointed; close union. [R.] Coleridge. 

SYNARTHRODIA:  Synarthrosis.  -- Syn`ar*thro"di*al, a. Dunglison. 

SYNARTHROSIS:  Immovable articulation by close union, as in sutures. It sometimes includes symphysial articulations also. See the Note under Articulation, n., 1. 

SYNASTRY:  Concurrence of starry position or influence; hence, similarity of condition, fortune, etc., as prefigured by astrological calculation. [R.] Motley. 

SYNAXIS:  A congregation; also, formerly, the Lord's Supper. Jer. Taylor. 

SYNCARP:  A kind of aggregate fruit in which the ovaries cohere in a solid mass, with a slender receptacle, as in the magnolia; also, a similar multiple fruit, as a mulberry. 

SYNCARPIUM:  Same as Syncarp. 

SYNCARPOUS:  Composed of several carpels consolidated into one ovary. 

SYNCATEGOREMATIC:  Not capable of being used as a term by itself; -- said of words, as an adverb or preposition. 

SYNCHONDROSIS:  An immovable articulation in which the union is formed by cartilage.  -- Syn`chon*dro"si*al, a. 

SYNCHONDROTOMY:  Symphyseotomy. 

SYNCHORESIS:  A concession made for the purpose of retorting with greater force. 

SYNCHRONAL:  Happening at, or belonging to, the same time; synchronous; simultaneous. Dr. H. More. 

SYNCHRONAL:  A synchronal thing or event. 

SYNCHRONICAL:  Happening at the same time; synchronous. Boyle.  -- Syn*chron"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SYNCHRONISM:  A representation, in the same picture, of two or events which occured at different times. 

SYNCHRONISTIC:  Of or pertaining to synchronism; arranged according to correspondence in time; as, synchronistic tables. 

SYNCHRONIZATION:  The act of synchronizing; concurrence of events in respect to time. 

SYNCHRONIZE:  To agree in time; to be simultaneous. The path of this great empire, through its arch of progress, synchronized with that of Christianity. De Quincey. 

SYNCHRONOLOGY:  Contemporaneous chronology. 

SYNCHRONOUS:  Happening at the same time; simultaneous.  -- Syn"chro*nous*ly, adv. 

SYNCHRONY:  The concurrence of events in time; synchronism. [R.] Geological contemporaneity is the same as chronological synchrony. Huxley. 

SYNCHYSIS:  A derangement or confusion of any kind, as of words in a sentence, or of humors in the eye. Sparkling synchysis (Med.), a condition in which the vitreous humor is softened and contains sparkling scales of cholesterin. 

SYNCLASTIC:  Curved toward the same side in all directions; -- said of surfaces which in all directions around any point bend away from a tangent plane toward the same side, as the surface of a sphere; -- opposed to anticlastic. Sir W. Thomson. 

SYNCLINAL:  Formed by strata dipping toward a common line or plane; as, a synclinal trough or valley; a synclinal fold; -- opposed to anticlinal.  Note: A downward flexure in the case of folded rocks makes a synclinal axis, and the alternating upward flexure an anticlinal axis. 

SYNCLINAL:  A synclinal fold. 

SYNCLINE:  A synclinal fold. 

SYNCLINICAL:  Synclinal. [R.] 

SYNCLINORIUM:  A mountain range owing its origin to the progress of a geosynclinal, and ending in a catastrophe of displacement and upturning. Dana. 

SYNCOPAL:  Of or pertaining to syncope; resembling syncope. 

SYNCOPATE:  To contract, as a word, by taking one or more letters or syllables from the middle; as, "Gloster" is a syncopated form of "Gloucester."  2. (Mus.)  To commence, as a tone, on an unaccented part of a measure, and continue it into the following accented part, so that the accent is driven back upon the weak part and the rhythm drags. 

SYNCOPATION:  The act of syncopating; the contraction of a word by taking one or more letters or syllables from the middle; syncope.  2. (Mus.)  The act of syncopating; a peculiar figure of rhythm, or rhythmical alteration, which consists in welding into one tone the second half of one beat with the first half of the beat which follows. 

SYNCOPE:  An elision or retrenchment of one or more letters or syllables from the middle of a word; as, ne'er for never, ev'ry for every.  2. (Mus.)  Same as Syncopation.  3. (Med.)  A fainting, or swooning. See Fainting.  4. A pause or cessation; suspension. [R.] Revely, and dance, and show, Suffer a syncope and solemn pause. Cowper. 

SYNCOPIST:  One who syncopates. Addison. 

SYNCOPIZE:  To syncopate. 

SYNCOTYLEDONOUS:  Having united cotyledonous. 

SYNCRETIC:  Uniting and blending together different systems, as of philosophy, morals, or religion. Smart. 

SYNCRETISM:  Attempted union of principles or parties irreconcilably at variance with each other. He is plotting a carnal syncretism, and attempting the reconcilement of Christ and Belial. Baxter. Syncretism is opposed to eclecticism in philosophy. Krauth-Fleming. 

SYNCRETIST:  One who attempts to unite principles or parties which are irreconcilably at variance; specifically (Eccl. Hist.),  an adherent of George Calixtus and other Germans of the seventeenth century, who sought to unite or reconcile the Protestant sects with each other and with the Roman Catholics, and thus occasioned a long and violent controversy in the Lutheran church. 

SYNCRISIS:  A figure of speech in which opposite things or persons are compared. Crabb. 

SYNCYTIUM:  Tissue in which the cell or partition walls are wholly wanting and the cell bodies fused together, so that the tissue consists of a continuous mass of protoplasm in which nuclei are imbedded, as in ordinary striped muscle.  2. (Zoöl.)  The ectoderm of a sponge.  SYNDACTYL; SYNDACTYLE Syn*dac"tyl, Syn*dac"tyle, a.  [Syn- + Gr.  finger, toe.] (Zoöl. & Med.)  Having two or more digits wholly or partly united. See Syndactylism. 

SYNDACTYLE:  Any bird having syndactilous feet. 

SYNDACTYLIC:  Syndactilous. 

SYNDACTYLOUS:  Having the toes firmly united together for some distance, and without an intermediate web, as the kingfishers; gressorial. 

SYNDESMOGRAPHY:  A description of the ligaments; syndesmology. 

SYNDESMOLOGY:  That part of anatomy which treats of ligaments. 

SYNDESMOSIS:  An articulation formed by means of ligaments.  SYNDETIC; SYNDETICAL Syn*det"ic, Syn*det"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Asyndetic.]  Connecting; conjunctive; as, syndetic words or connectives; syndetic references in a dictionary.  -- Syn*det"ic*al*ly, adv. With the syndetic juxtaposition of distinct members, the article is not often repeated. C. J. Grece (Trans. Maetzner's Gram.). 

SYNDIC:  An agent of a corporation, or of any body of men engaged in a business enterprise; an advocate or patron; an assignee.  Note: In France, syndics are appointed by the creditors of a bankrupt to manage the property. Almost all the companies in Paris, the university, and the like, have their syndics. The university of Cambridge, Eng., has its syndics, who are chosen from the senate to transact special business, such as the regulation of fees, the framing of laws, etc. 

SYNDICALISM:  The theory, plan, or practice of trade-union action (originally as advocated and practiced by the French Confédération Générale du Travail) which aims to abolish the present political and social system by means of the general strike (as distinguished from the local or sectional strike) and direct action of whatever kind (as distinguished from action which takes effect only through the medium of political action) -- direct action including any kind of action that is directly effective, whether it be a simple strike, a peaceful public demonstration, sabotage, or revolutionary violence. By the general strike and direct action syndicalism aims to establish a social system in which the means and processes of production are in the control of local organizations of workers, who are manage them for the common good. 

SYNDICALIST:  One who advocates or practices syndicalism. --Syn`dic*al*is"tic (#), a. 

SYNDICATE:  To judge; to censure. [Obs.] 

SYNDICATION:  Act or process of syndicating or forming a syndicate. 

SYNDROME:  Concurrence. [R.] Glanvill.  A group of symptoms occurring together that are characteristic and indicative of some underlying cause, such as a disease. 

SYNDYASMIAN:  Pertaining to the state of pairing together sexually; -- said of animals during periods of procreation and while rearing their offspring. Morgan. 

SYNE:  Since; seeing. [Scot.] 

SYNECDOCHE:  A figure or trope by which a part of a thing is put for the whole (as, fifty sail for fifty ships), or the whole for a part (as, the smiling year for spring), the species for the genus (as, cutthroat for assassin), the genus for the species (as, a creature for a man), the name of the material for the thing made, etc. Bain. 

SYNECDOCHICAL:  Expressed by synecdoche; implying a synecdoche. Isis is used for Themesis by a synecdochical kind of speech, or by a poetical liberty, in using one for another. Drayton. 

SYNECDOCHICALLY:  By synecdoche. 

SYNECHIA:  A disease of the eye, in which the iris adheres to the cornea or to the capsule of the crystalline lens. 

SYNECPHONESIS:  A contraction of two syllables into one; synizesis. 

SYNEDRAL:  Growing on the angles of a stem, as the leaves in some species of Selaginella. 

SYNENTOGNATHI:  An order of fishes, resembling the Physoclisti, without spines in the dorsal, anal, and ventral fins. It includes the true flying fishes. 

SYNEPY:  The interjunction, or joining, of words in uttering the clauses of sentences. 

SYNERESIS:  Same as Synæresis. 

SYNERGETIC:  Working together; coöperating; as, synergetic muscles. 

SYNERGISM:  The doctrine or theory, attributed to Melanchthon, that in the regeneration of a human soul there is a coöperation, or joint agency, on the part both of God and of man. 

SYNERGIST:  A remedy which has an action similar to that of another remedy, and hence increases the efficiency of that remedy when combined with it. 

SYNERGY:  Combined action; especially (Med.),  the combined healty action of every organ of a particular system; as, the digestive synergy.  An effect of the interaction of the actions of two agents such that the result of the combined action is greater than expected as a simple additive combination of the two agents acting separately. Also synergism. 

SYNESIS:  A construction in which adherence to some element in the sense causes a departure from strict syntax, as in "Philip went down to Samaria and preached Christ unto them." 

SYNGENESIA:  A Linnæan class of plants in which the stamens are united by the anthers.  SYNGENESIAN; SYNGENESIOUS Syn`ge*ne"sian, Syn`ge*ne"sious, a. (Bot.)  Having the stamens united by the anthers; of or pertaining to the Syngenesia. 

SYNGENESIS:  A theory of generation in which each germ is supposed to contain the germs of all subsequent generations; -- the opposite of epigenesis. 

SYNGNATHI:  A suborder of lophobranch fishes which have an elongated snout and lack the ventral and first dorsal fins. The pipefishes and sea horses are examples.  -- Syng"na*thous, a. 

SYNGRAPH:  A writing signed by both or all the parties to a contract or bond. 

SYNIZESIS:  An obliteration of the pupil of the eye.  2. (Gram.)  A contraction of two syllables into one; synecphonesis. 

SYNNEOROSIS:  Syndesmosis. 

SYNOCHA:  See Synochus. [Obs.] 

SYNOCHAL:  Of or pertaining to synocha; like synocha. [Obs.] 

SYNOCHUS:  A continuous fever. [Obs.]  Note: Synocha and synochus were used as epithets of two distinct types of fever, but in different senses at different periods. The same disease is placed under synocha by one author, under synochus by another. Quain. 

SYNOCIL:  A sense organ found in certain sponges. It consists of several filaments, each of which arises from a single cell. 

SYNOD:  An ecclesiastic council or meeting to consult on church matters.  Note: Synods are of four kinds: 1. General, or ecumenical, which are compopsed of bishops from different nations; -- commonly called general council. 2. National, composed of bishops of one nation only. 3. Provincial, in which the bishops of only one province meet; -- called also convocations. 4. Diocesan, a synod in which the bishop of the diocese or his representative presides. Among Presbyterians, a synod is composed of several adjoining presbyteries. The members are the ministers and a ruling elder from each parish.  2. An assembly or council having civil authority; a legislative body. It hath in solemn synods been decreed, Both by the Syracusians and ourselves, To admit no traffic to our adverse towns. Shak. Parent of gods and men, propitious Jove! And you, bright synod of the powers above. Dryden.  3. (Astron.)  A conjunction of two or more of the heavenly bodies. [R.] Milton. 

SYNODAL:  Synodical. Milton. 

SYNODAL:  A tribute in money formerly paid to the bishop or archdeacon, at the time of his Easter visitation, by every parish priest, now made to the ecclesiastical commissioners; a procuration. Synodals are due, of common right, to the bishop only. Gibson.  2. A constitution made in a provincial or diocesan synod.  SYNODIC; SYNODICAL Syn*od"ic, Syn*od"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. synodicus, Gr. synodique.]  1. (Eccl.)  Of or pertaining to a synod; transacted in, or authorized by, a synod; as, synodical proceedings or forms. "A synodical epistle." Bp. Stillingfleet.  2. (Astron.)  Pertaining to conjunction, especially to the period between two successive conjunctions; extending from one conjunction, as of the moon or a planet with the sun, to the next; as, a synodical month (see Lunar month, under Month); the synodical revolution of the moon or a planet. 

SYNODICALLY:  In a synodical manner; in a synod; by the authority of a synod. "Synodically agreed upon." R. Nelson. 

SYNODIST:  An adherent to a synod. These synodists thought fit in Latin as yet to veil their decrees from vulgar eyes. Fuller. 

SYNOECIOUS:  Having stamens and pistil in the same head, or, in mosses, having antheridia and archegonia on the same receptacle. 

SYNOMOCY:  Sworn brotherhood; a society in ancient Greece nearly resembling a modern political club. 

SYNONYM:  One of two or more words (commonly words of the same language) which are equivalents of each other; one of two or more words which have very nearly the same signification, and therefore may often be used interchangeably. See under Synonymous. [Written also synonyme.] All languages tend to clear themselves of synonyms as intellectual culture advances, the superfluous words being taken up and appropriated by new shades and combinations of thought evolved in the progress of society. De Quincey. His name has thus become, throughout all civilized countries, a synonym for probity and philanthropy. Macaulay. In popular literary acceptation, and as employed in special dictionaries of such words, synonyms are words sufficiently alike in general signification to be liable to be confounded, but yet so different in special definition as to require to be distinguished. G. P. Marsh. 

SYNONYMA:  Synonyms. [Obs.] Fuller. 

SYNONYMAL:  Synonymous. [Obs.] 

SYNONYMALLY:  Synonymously. [Obs.] 

SYNONYME:  Same as Synonym. 

SYNONYMIC:  The science, or the scientific treatment, of synonymous words.  SYNONYMIC; SYNONYMICAL Syn`o*nym"ic, Syn`o*nym"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to synonyms, or synonymic; synonymous. 

SYNONYMICON:  A dictionary of synonyms. C. J. Smith. 

SYNONYMIST:  One who collects or explains synonyms. 

SYNONYMIZE:  To express by a synonym or synonyms; to give the synonym or synonyms corresponding to. This word "fortis" we may synonymize after all these fashions: stout, hardy, valiant, doughty, courageous, adventurous, brave, bold, daring, intrepid. Camden. 

SYNONYMOUS:  Having the character of a synonym; expressing the same thing; conveying the same, or approximately the same, idea.  -- Syn*on"y*mous*ly, adv. These words consist of two propositions, which are not distinct in sense, but one and the same thing variously expressed; for wisdom and understanding are synonymous words here. Tillotson.  Syn.  -- Identical; interchangeable.  -- Synonymous, Identical. If no words are synonymous except those which are identical in use and meaning, so that the one can in all cases be substituted for the other, we have scarcely ten such words in our language. But the term more properly denotes that the words in question approach so near to each other, that, in many or most cases, they can be used interchangeably. 1. Words may thus coincide in certain connections, and so be interchanged, when they can not be interchanged in other connections; thus we may speak either strength of mind or of force of mind, but we say the force (not strength) of gravitation. 2. Two words may differ slightly, but this difference may be unimportant to the speaker's object, so that he may freely interchange them; thus it makes but little difference, in most cases, whether we speak of a man's having secured his object or having attained his object. For these and other causes we have numerous words which may, in many cases or connections, be used interchangeably, and these are properly called synonyms. Synonymous words "are words which, with great and essential resemblances of meaning, have, at the same time, small, subordinate, and partial differences, -- these differences being such as either originally and on the ground of their etymology inhered in them; or differences which they have by usage acquired in the eyes of all; or such as, though nearly latent now, they are capable of receiving at the hands of wise and discreet masters of the tongue. Synonyms are words of like significance in the main, but with a certain unlikeness as well." Trench. 

SYNONYMY:  A figure by which synonymous words are used to amplify a discourse. 

SYNOPSIS:  A general view, or a collection of heads or parts so arranged as to exhibit a general view of the whole; an abstract or summary of a discourse; a syllabus; a conspectus. That the reader may see in one view the exactness of the method, as well as force of the argument, I shall here draw up a short synopsis of this epistle. Bp. Warburton.  Syn.  -- Abridgment; compendium; epitome; abstract; summary; syllabus; conspectus. See Abridgment.  SYNOPTIC; SYNOPTICAL Syn*op"tic, Syn*op"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. synoptique. See Synopsis.]  Affording a general view of the whole, or of the principal parts of a thing; as, a synoptic table; a synoptical statement of an argument. "The synoptic Gospels." Alford.  -- Syn*op"tic*al*ly, adv. 

SYNOPTIC:  One of the first three Gospels of the New Testament. See Synoptist. 

SYNOPTIST:  Any one of the authors of the three synoptic Gospels, which give a history of our Lord's life and ministry, in distinction from the writer of John's Gospel, which gives a fuller record of his teachings. 

SYNOSTEOLOGY:  That part of anatomy which treats of joints; arthrology. 

SYNOSTEOSIS:  Union by means of bone; the complete closing up and obliteration of sutures. 

SYNOSTOSIS:  Same as Synosteosis. 

SYNOVIA:  A transparent, viscid, lubricating fluid which contains mucin and secreted by synovial membranes; synovial fluid. 

SYNOVIAL:  Of or pertaining to synovia; secreting synovia. Synovial capsule, a closed sac of synovial membrane situated between the articular surfaces at diarthrodial joints.  -- Synovial fluid, synovia.  -- Synovial membrane, the dense and very smooth connective tissue membrane which secretes synovia and surrounds synovial capsules and other synovial cavities. 

SYNOVITIS:  Inflammation of the synovial membrane. 

SYNPELMOUS:  Having the two main flexor tendons of the toes blended together. 

SYNSEPALOUS:  Having united sepals; gamosepalous.  SYNTACTIC; SYNTACTICAL Syn*tac"tic, Syn*tac"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. G. Syntax.]  Of or pertaining to syntax; according to the rules of syntax, or construction.  -- Syn*tac"tic*al*ly, adv. 

SYNTAXIS:  Syntax. [R.] B. Jonson. 

SYNTERESIS:  Prophylaxis. [Obs.]  2. (Metaph.)  Conscience viewed as the internal repository of the laws of duty. Whewell. 

SYNTERETIC:  Preserving health; prophylactic. [Obs.] 

SYNTERETICS:  That department of medicine which relates to the preservation of health; prophylaxis. [Obs.] 

SYNTHERMAL:  Having the same degree of heat. 

SYNTHESIS:  The art or process of making a compound by putting the ingredients together, as contrasted with analysis; thus, water is made by synthesis from hydrogen and oxygen; hence, specifically, the building up of complex compounds by special reactions, whereby their component radicals are so grouped that the resulting substances are identical in every respect with the natural articles when such occur; thus, artificial alcohol, urea, indigo blue, alizarin, etc., are made by synthesis.  3. (Logic)  The combination of separate elements of thought into a whole, as of simple into complex conceptions, species into genera, individual propositions into systems; -- the opposite of Ant: analysis. Analysis and synthesis, though commonly treated as two different methods, are, if properly understood, only the two necessary parts of the same method. Each is the relative and correlative of the other. Sir W. Hamilton. 

SYNTHESIST:  One who employs synthesis, or who follows synthetic methods. 

SYNTHESIZE:  Artificial. Cf. Synthesis, 2.  3. (Zoöl.)  Comprising within itself structural or other characters which are usually found only in two or more diverse groups; -- said of species, genera, and higher groups. See the Note under Comprehensive, 3. Synthetic, or Synthetical language, an inflectional language, or one characterized by grammatical endings; -- opposed to analytic language. R. Morris. 

SYNTHETICALLY:  In a synthetic manner. 

SYNTHETIZE:  To combine; to unite in regular structure. [R.] 

SYNTOMY:  Brevity; conciseness. [R.] 

SYNTONIC:  Of or pert. to syntony; specif., designating, or pert. to, a system of wireless telegraphy in which the transmitting and receiving apparatus are in syntony with, and only with, one another. -- Syn*ton"ic*al (#), a. --Syn*ton"ic*al*ly, adv. 

SYNTONIN:  A proteid substance (acid albumin) formed from the albuminous matter of muscle by the action of dilute acids; -- formerly called musculin. See Acid albumin, under Albumin. 

SYNTONIZE:  To adjust or devise so as to emit or respond to electric oscillations of a certain wave length; to tune; specif., to put (two or more instruments or systems of wireless telegraphy) in syntony with each other. -- Syn`to*ni*za"tion (#), n. 

SYNTONIZER:  One that syntonizes; specif., a device consisting essentially of a variable inductance coil and condenser with a pair of adjustable spark balls, for attuning the time periods of antennæ in wireless telegraphy (called also syntonizing coil). 

SYNTONY:  State of being adjusted to a certain wave length; agreement or tuning between the time period of an apparatus emitting electric oscillations and that of a receiving apparatus, esp. in wireless telegraphy. 

SYPHERING:  The lapping of chamfered edges of planks to make a smooth surface, as for a bulkhead. 

SYPHILIDE:  A cutaneous eruption due to syphilis. 

SYPHILIS:  The pox, or venereal disease; a chronic, specific, infectious disease, usually communicated by sexual intercourse or by hereditary transmission, and occurring in three stages known as primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilis. See under Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary.Treponema pallidum. Usu. tretable with penicillin or other beta-lactam antibiotics. 

SYPHILITIC:  Of or pertaining to syphilis; of the nature of syphilis; affected with syphilis.  -- n.  A syphilitic patient. 

SYPHILITICALLY:  In a syphilitic manner; with venereal disease. 

SYPHILIZATION:  Inoculation with the syphilitic virus, especially when employed as a preventive measure, like vaccination. 

SYPHILIZE:  To inoculate with syphilis. 

SYPHILODERM:  A cutaneous affection due to syphilis. 

SYPHILODERMATOUS:  Of or pertaining to the cutaneous manifestations of syphilis. 

SYPHILOID:  Resembling syphilis. 

SYPHILOLOGIST:  One skilled in syphilology. 

SYPHILOLOGY:  That branch of medicine which treats of syphilis. 

SYPHON:  See Syphon. 

SYRACUSE:  A red wine of Italy. 

SYREN:  See Siren. [R.] 

SYRIAC:  Of or pertaining to Syria, or its language; as, the Syriac version of the Pentateuch.  -- n.  The language of Syria; especially, the ancient language of that country. 

SYRIACISM:  A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism. 

SYRIAN:  Of or pertaining to Syria; Syriac.  -- n.  A native of Syria. 

SYRIANISM:  A Syrian idiom, or a peculiarity of the Syrian language; a Syriacism. Paley. 

SYRIASM:  A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism; a Syriacism. M. Stuart. The Scripture Greek is observed to be full of Syriasms and Hebraisms. Bp. Warburton. 

SYRINGE:  A kind of small hand-pump for throwing a stream of liquid, or for purposes of aspiration. It consists of a small cylindrical barrel and piston, or a bulb of soft elastic material, with or without valves, and with a nozzle which is sometimes at the end of a flexible tube; -- used for injecting animal bodies, cleansing wounds, etc. Garden syringe. See Garden. 

SYRINGEAL:  Of or pertaining to the syrinx; as, the syringeal muscle. 

SYRINGIN:  A glucoside found in the bark of the lilac (Syringa) and extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- formerly called also lilacin. 

SYRINGOCOELE:  The central canal of the spinal cord. B. G. Wilder. 

SYRINGOTOME:  A small blunt-pointed bistoury, -- used in syringotomy. 

SYRINGOTOMY:  The operation of cutting for anal fistula. 

SYRINX:  A wind instrument made of reeds tied together; -- called also pandean pipes.  2. (Anat.)  The lower larynx in birds.  Note: In birds there are two laringes, an upper or true, but voiceless, larynx in the usual position behind the tongue, and a lower one, at or near the junction of the trachea and bronchi, which is the true organ of the voice. 

SYRMA:  A long dress, trailing on the floor, worn by tragic actors in Greek and Roman theaters. 

SYRPHIAN:  Of or pertaining to the syrphus flies.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  A syrphus fly.  SYRPHUS FLY Syr"phus fly`. Etym: [NL. Syrphus, the generic name, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of dipterous flies of the genus Syrphus and allied genera. They are usually bright-colored, with yellow bands, and hover around plants. The larvæ feed upon plant lice, and are, therefore, very beneficial to agriculture. 

SYRT:  A quicksand; a bog. [R.] Young. 

SYRTIC:  Of or pertaining to a syrt; resembling syrt, or quicksand. [R.] Ed. Rev. 

SYRTIS:  A quicksand. Quenched in a boggy syrtis, neither sea Nor good dry land. Milton.  SYRUP; SYRUPY Syr"up, n., Syr"up*y, a. Etym: [See Sirup.]  Same as Sirup, Sirupy. 

SYSSARCOSIS:  The junction of bones by intervening muscles. 

SYSTALTIC:  Capable of, or taking place by, alternate contraction and dilatation; as, the systaltic action of the heart. 

SYSTASIS:  A political union, confederation, or league. [R.] Burke. 

SYSTEM:  The collection of staves which form a full score. See Score, n.  5. (Biol.)  An assemblage of parts or organs, either in animal or plant, essential to the performance of some particular function or functions which as a rule are of greater complexity than those manifested by a single organ; as, the capillary system, the muscular system, the digestive system, etc.; hence, the whole body as a functional unity.  6. (Zoöl.)  One of the stellate or irregular clusters of intimately united zooids which are imbedded in, or scattered over, the surface of the common tissue of many compound ascidians. Block system, Conservative system, etc. See under Block, Conservative, etc.  SYSTEMATIC; SYSTEMATICAL Sys`tem*at"ic, Sys`tem*at"ic*al, a. [Gr. systématique.]  1. Of or pertaining to system; consisting in system; methodical; formed with regular connection and adaptation or subordination of parts to each other, and to the design of the whole; as, a systematic arrangement of plants or animals; a systematic course of study. Now we deal much in essays, and unreasonably despise systematical learning; whereas our fathers had a just value for regularity and systems. I. Watts. A representation of phenomena, in order to answer the purposes of science, must be systematic. Whewell.  2. Proceeding according to system, or regular method; as, a systematic writer; systematic benevolence.  3. Pertaining to the system of the world; cosmical. These ends may be called cosmical, or systematical. Boyle.  4. (Med.)  Affecting successively the different parts of the system or set of nervous fibres; as, systematic degeneration. Systematic theology. See under Theology. 

SYSTEMATICALLY:  In a systematic manner; methodically. 

SYSTEMATISM:  The reduction of facts or principles to a system. Dunglison. 

SYSTEMATIZATION:  The act or operation of systematizing. 

SYSTEMATIZE:  To reduce to system or regular method; to arrange methodically; to methodize; as, to systematize a collection of plants or minerals; to systematize one's work; to systematize one's ideas. Diseases were healed, and buildings erected, before medicine and architecture were systematized into arts. Harris. 

SYSTEMATIZER:  One who systematizes. Aristotle may be called the systematizer of his master's doctrines. Harris. 

SYSTEMATOLOGY:  The doctrine of, or a treatise upon, systems. Dunglison. 

SYSTEMIC:  Of or pertaining to the general system, or the body as a whole; as, systemic death, in distinction from local death; systemic circulation, in distinction from pulmonic circulation; systemic diseases. Systemic death. See the Note under Death, n., 1. 

SYSTEMIZATION:  The act or process of systematizing; systematization. 

SYSTEMIZE:  To reduce to system; to systematize. 

SYSTEMIZER:  One who systemizes, or reduces to system; a systematizer. 

SYSTEMLESS:  Not agreeing with some artificial system of classification.  3. (Biol.)  Not having any of the distinct systems or types of structure, as the radiate, articulate, etc., characteristic of organic nature; as, all unicellular organisms are systemless. 

SYSTOLE:  The shortening of the long syllable.  2. (Physiol.)  The contraction of the heart and arteries by which the blood is forced onward and the circulation kept up; -- correlative to diastole. 

SYSTOLIC:  Of or pertaining to systole, or contraction; contracting; esp., ralating to the systole of the heart; as, systolic murmur. Dunglison. 

SYSTYLE:  Having a space equal to two diameters or four modules between two columns; -- said of a portico or building. See Intercolumniation.  -- n.  A systyle temple or other edifice.  SYTH; SYTHE Syth, Sythe, prep., adv., conj. & n.  See Sith, Sithe. [Obs.] Chaucer. Piers Plowman. 

SYTHE:  Scythe. [Obs. or R.] 

SYZYGIAL:  Pertaining to a syzygy. 

SYZYGY:  The point of an orbit, as of the moon or a planet, at which it is in conjunction or opposition; -- commonly used in the plural.  2. (Gr. & L. Pros.)  The coupling together of different feet; as, in Greek verse, an iambic syzygy.  3. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of the segments of an arm of a crinoid composed of two joints so closely united that the line of union is obliterated on the outer, though visible on the inner, side. (b) The immovable union of two joints of a crinoidal arm. Line of syzygies (Astron.), the straight line connecting the earth, the sun, and the moon or a planet, when the latter is in conjunction or opposition; -- used chiefly of the moon. 

TA:  To take. [Obs. or Scot.]  Cursor Mundi.   Used by Chaucer to represent a peculiarity of the Northern dialect. 

TAAS:  A heap. See Tas. [Obs.]  Chaucer. 

TABACCO:  Tobacco. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

TABANUS:  A genus of blood sucking flies, including the horseflies. 

TABARD:  A sort of tunic or mantle formerly worn for protection from the weather. When worn over the armor it was commonly emblazoned with the arms of the wearer, and from this the name was given to the garment adopted for heralds. [Spelt also taberd.]  In a tabard he [the Plowman] rode upon a mare. Chaucer. 

TABARET:  A stout silk having satin stripes, -- used for furniture.  TABASCO SAUCE Ta*bas"co sauce. [So named after Tabasco, a river and state of Mexico.]  A kind of very pungent sauce made from red peppers. 

TABASHEER:  A concretion in the joints of the bamboo, which consists largely or chiefly of pure silica. It is highly valued in the East Indies as a medicine for the cure of bilious vomitings, bloody flux, piles, and various other diseases. 

TABBINET:  A fabric like poplin, with a watered surface. [Written also tabinet.] 

TABEFACTION:  A wasting away; a gradual losing of flesh by disease. 

TABEFY:  To cause to waste gradually, to emaciate. [R.]  Harvey. 

TABELLION:  A secretary or notary under the Roman empire; also, a similar officer in France during the old monarchy. 

TABER:  Same as Tabor.  Nahum ii. 7. 

TABERD:  See Tabard. 

TABERNACLE:  To dwell or reside for a time; to be temporary housed.  He assumed our nature, and tabernacled among us in the flesh. Dr. J. Scott. 

TABES:  Progressive emaciation of the body, accompanied with hectic fever, with no well-marked local symptoms.  Tabes dorsalis (dôr*sa"lis) [NL., tabes of the back], locomotor ataxia; -- sometimes called simply tabes. -- Tabes mesenterica [NL., mesenteric tabes], a wasting disease of childhood characterized by chronic inflammation of the lymphatic glands of the mesentery, attended with caseous degeneration. 

TABESCENT:  Withering, or wasting away. 

TABETIC:  Of or pertaining to tabes; of the nature of tabes; affected with tabes; tabid. -- n.  One affected with tabes. 

TABID:  Affected by tabes; tabetic.  In tabid persons, milk is the bset restorative. Arbuthnot.  -- Tab"id*ly, adv. -- Tab"id*ness, n.  TABIFIC; TABIFICAL Ta*bif"ic, Ta*bif"ic*al, a. [Tabes + L. facere to make.] (Med.)  Producing tabes; wasting; tabefying. 

TABINET:  See Tabbinet.  Thackeray. 

TABLE:  To insert, as one piece of timber into another, by alternate scores or projections from the middle, to prevent slipping; to scarf.  5. To lay or place on a table, as money. Carlyle.  6. In parliamentary usage, to lay on the table; to postpone, by a formal vote, the consideration of (a bill, motion, or the like) till called for, or indefinitely.  7. To enter upon the docket; as, to table charges against some one.  8. (Naut.)  To make board hems in the skirts and bottoms of (sails) in order to strengthen them in the part attached to the boltrope. 

TABLE:  To live at the table of another; to board; to eat. [Obs.] "He . . . was driven from the society of men to table with the beasts." South. 

TABLEAU:  Same as Tableau, n., 2. 

TABLEBOOK:  A tablet; a notebook. Put into your tablebook whatever you judge worthly. Dryden. 

TABLECLOTH:  A cloth for covering a table, especially one with which a table is covered before the dishes, etc., are set on for meals.  TABLE D'HOTE Ta"ble d'hôte"; pl. Tables d'hôte. Etym: [F., literally, table of the landlord.]  A common table for guests at a hotel; an ordinary.  TABLE-LAND Ta"ble-land`, n.  A broad, level, elevated area of land; a plateau. The toppling crags of Duty scaled, Are close upon the shining table- lands To which our God himself is moon and sun. Tennyson. 

TABLEMAN:  A man at draughts; a piece used in playing games at tables. See Table, n., 10. [R.] Bacon. 

TABLEMENT:  A table. [Obs.] Tablements and chapters of pillars. Holland. 

TABLESPOON:  A spoon of the largest size commonly used at the table; -- distinguished from teaspoon, dessert spoon, etc. 

TABLESPOONFUL:  As much as a tablespoon will hold; enough to fill a tablespoon. It is usually reckoned as one half of a fluid ounce, or four fluid drams. 

TABLET:  A kind of pocket memorandum book.  5. A flattish cake or piece; as, tablets of arsenic were formerly worn as a preservative against the plague.  6. (Pharm.)  A solid kind of electuary or confection, commonly made of dry ingredients with sugar, and usually formed into little flat squares; -- called also lozenge, and troche, especially when of a round or rounded form. 

TABLEWARE:  Ware, or articles collectively, for table use.  TABLE WORK Table work. (Print.)  Typesetting of tabular nmatter, or the type matter set in tabular form. 

TABLING:  The letting of one timber into another by alternate scores or projections, as in shipbuilding.  3. (Naut.)  A broad hem on the edge of a sail. Totten.  4. Board; support. [Obs.] Trence in English (1614).  5. Act of playing at tables. See Table, n., 10. [Obs.] Tabling house, a gambling house. [Obs.] Northbrooke. 

TABLOID:  A compressed portion of one or more drugs or chemicals, or of food, etc. 

TABLOID:  Compressed or condensed, as into a tabloid; administrated in or as in tabloids, or small condensed bits; as, a tabloid form of imparting information. 

TABOO:  A total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of religious origin and authority, formerly common in the islands of Polynesia; interdiction. [Written also tabu.] 

TABOO:  To put under taboo; to forbid, or to forbid the use of; to interdict approach to, or use of; as, to taboo the ground set apart as a sanctuary for criminals. [Written also tabu.] 

TABOR:  A small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both being played by the same person. [Written also tabour, and taber.] 

TABOR:  To make (a sound) with a tabor. 

TABORER:  One who plays on the tabor. Shak. 

TABORET:  A small tabor. [Written also tabouret.] 

TABORINE:  A small, shallow drum; a tabor. 

TABORITE:  One of certain Bohemian reformers who suffered persecution in the fifteenth century; -- so called from Tabor, a hill or fortress where they encamped during a part of their struggles. 

TABOUR:  See Tabor. 

TABRERE:  A taborer. [Obs.] Spenser. 

TABRET:  A taboret. Young. 

TABU:  See Taboo. 

TABULA:  One of the transverse plants found in the calicles of certain corals and hydroids. Tabula rasa ( Etym: [L.], a smoothed tablet; hence, figuratively, the mind in its earliest state, before receiving impressions from without; -- a term used by Hobbes, Locke, and others, in maintaining a theory opposed to the doctrine of innate ideas. 

TABULAR:  Having the form of, or pertaining to, a table (in any of the uses of the word). Specifically: -- (a) Having a flat surface; as, a tabular rock. (b) Formed into a succession of flakes; laminated. Nodules . . . that are tabular and plated. Woodward.  (c) Set in squares. [R.] (d) Arranged in a schedule; as, tabular statistics. (e) Derived from, or computed by, the use of tables; as, tabular right ascension. Tabular difference (Math.), the difference between two consecutive numbers in a table, sometimes printed in its proper place in the table.  -- Tabular spar (Min.), wollastonite. 

TABULARIZATION:  The act of tabularizing, or the state of being tabularized; formation into tables; tabulation. 

TABULARIZE:  To tabulate. 

TABULATA:  An artificial group of stony corals including those which have transverse septa in the calicles. The genera Pocillopora and Favosites are examples. 

TABULATION:  The act of forming into a table or tables; as, the tabulation of statistics. 

TAC:  A kind of customary payment by a tenant; -- a word used in old records. Cowell. Burrill.  TACAMAHAC; TACAMAHACA Tac"a*ma*hac`, Tac`a*ma*ha"ca, n.  1. A bitter balsamic resin obtained from tropical American trees of the genus Elaphrium (E. tomentosum and E. Tacamahaca), and also from East Indian trees of the genus Calophyllum; also, the resinous exhudation of the balsam poplar.  2. (Bot.)  Any tree yielding tacamahac resin, especially, in North America, the balsam poplar, or balm of Gilead (Populus balsamifera). 

TACAUD:  The bib, or whiting pout. [Prov. Eng.]  TAC-AU-TAC Tac`-au-tac", n. [F., fr. riposter du tac au tac to parry (where tac imitates the sound made by the steel).] (Fencing)  The parry which is connected with a riposte; also, a series of quick attacks and parries in which neither fencer gains a point. 

TACE:  The cross, or church, of St. Antony. See Illust. (6), under Cross, n. Mollett. 

TACE:  See Tasse. Fairholt. 

TACET:  It is silent; -- a direction for a vocal or instrumental part to be silent during a whole movement. 

TACHE:  Something used for taking hold or holding; a catch; a loop; a button. [Obs.] Ex. xxvi. 6. 

TACHE:  A spot, stain, or blemish. [Obs.] Warner. 

TACHHYDRITE:  A hydrous chloride of calcium and magnesium occurring in yellowish masses which rapidly deliquesce upon exposure. It is found in the salt mines at Stassfurt. 

TACHINA:  Any one of numerous species of Diptera belonging to Tachina and allied genera. Their larvæ are external parasites of other insects. 

TACHISTOSCOPE:  An apparatus for exposing briefly to view a screen bearing letters or figures. It is used in studying the range of attention, or the power of distinguishing separate objects in a single impression. 

TACHOGRAPH:  A recording or registering tachometer; also, its autographic record. 

TACHOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the velocity, or indicating changes in the velocity, of a moving body or substance. Specifically: -- (a) An instrument for measuring the velocity of running water in a river or canal, consisting of a wheel with inclined vanes, which is turned by the current. The rotations of the wheel are recorded by clockwork. (b) An instrument for showing at any moment the speed of a revolving shaft, consisting of a delicate revolving conical pendulum which is driven by the shaft, and the action of which by change of speed moves a pointer which indicates the speed on a graduated dial. (c) (Physiol.) An instrument for measuring the velocity of the blood; a hæmatachometer. 

TACHOMETRY:  Measurement by a tachometer; the science or use of tachometers. 

TACHYDIDAXY:  A short or rapid method of instructing. [R.] 

TACHYGLOSSA:  A division of monotremes which comprises the spiny ant-eaters of Australia and New Guinea. See Illust. under Echidna. 

TACHYGRAPH:  An example of tachygraphy; esp., an ancient Greek or Roman tachygraphic manuscript. 

TACHYGRAPHER:  One who writes shorthand; a stenographer; esp., an ancient Greek or Roman notary.  TACHYGRAPHIC; TACHYGRAPHICAL Tach`y*graph"ic, Tach`y*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tachygraphique.]  Of or pertaining to tachygraphy; written in shorthand. 

TACHYGRAPHY:  The art or practice of rapid writing; shorthand writing; stenography. I. Taylor (The Alphabet). 

TACHYLYTE:  A vitreous form of basalt; -- so called because decompposable by acids and readily fusible. 

TACHYMETRY:  The science or use of the tachymeter. -- Ta`chy*met"ric (#), a. 

TACHYSCOPE:  An early form of antimated-picture machine, devised in 1889 by Otto Anschütz of Berlin, in which the chronophotographs were mounted upon the periphery of a rotating wheel. 

TACIT:  Done or made in silence; implied, but not expressed; silent; as, tacit consent is consent by silence, or by not interposing an objection.  -- Tac"it*ly, adv. The tacit and secret theft of abusing our brother in civil contracts. Jer. Taylor. 

TACITURN:  Habitually silent; not given to converse; not apt to talk or speak.  -- Tac"i*turn*ly, adv.  Syn.  -- Silent; reserved. Taciturn, Silent. Silent has reference to the act; taciturn, to the habit. A man may be silent from circumstances; he is taciturn from disposition. The loquacious man is at times silent; one who is taciturn may now and then make an effort at conversation. 

TACITURNITY:  Habilual silence, or reserve in speaking. The cause of Addison's taciturnity was a natural diffidence in the company of strangers. V. Knox. The taciturnity and the short answers which gave so much offense. Macaulay. 

TACK:  A peculiar flavor or taint; as, a musty tack. [Obs. or Colloq.] Drayton. 

TACK:  A contract by which the use of a thing is set, or let, for hire; a lease. Burrill.  5. Confidence; reliance. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Tack of a flag (Naut.), a line spliced into the eye at the foot of the hoist for securing the flag to the halyards.  -- Tack pins (Naut.), belaying pins; -- also called jack pins.  -- To haul the tacks aboard (Naut.), to set the courses.  -- To hold tack, to last or hold out. Milton. 

TACK:  To change the direction of (a vessel) when sailing closehauled, by putting the helm alee and shifting the tacks and sails so that she will proceed to windward nearly at right angles to her former course.  Note: In tacking, a vessel is brought to point at first directly to windward, and then so that the wind will blow against the other side. 

TACK:  To change the direction of a vessel by shifting the position of the helm and sails; also (as said of a vessel), to have her direction changed through the shifting of the helm and sails. See Tack, v. t., 4. Monk, . . . when he wanted his ship to tack to larboard, moved the mirth of his crew by calling out, "Wheel to the left." Macaulay. 

TACKER:  One who tacks. 

TACKET:  A small, broad-headed nail. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

TACKEY:  See Tacky. 

TACKING:  A union of securities given at different times, all of which must be redeemed before an intermediate purchaser can interpose his claim. Bouvier.  Note: The doctrine of tacking is not recognized in American law. Kent. 

TACKLE:  The rigging and apparatus of a ship; also, any purchase where more than one block is used. Fall and tackle. See the Note under Pulley.  -- Fishing tackle. See under Fishing, a.  -- Ground tackle (Naut.), anchors, cables, etc.  -- Gun tackle, the apparatus or appliances for hauling cannon in or out.  -- Tackle fall, the rope, or rather the end of the rope, of a tackle, to which the power is applied.  -- Tack tackle (Naut.), a small tackle to pull down the tacks of the principal sails.  -- Tackle board, Tackle post (Ropemaking), a board, frame, or post, at the end of a ropewalk, for supporting the spindels, or whirls, for twisting the yarns. 

TACKLE:  To begin to deal with; as, to tackle the problem. 

TACKLED:  Made of ropes tacked together. My man shall be with thee, And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair. Shak. 

TACKSMAN:  One who holds a tack or lease from another; a tenant, or lessee. Sir W. Scott. The tacksmen, who formed what may be called the "peerage" of the little community, must be the captains. Macaulay. 

TACKY:  Sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., when not well dried. [U. S.] 

TACONIC:  Designating, or pertaining to, the series of rocks forming the Taconic mountains in Western New England. They were once supposed to be older than the Cambrian, but later proved to belong to the Lower Silurian and Cambrian. 

TACT:  The stroke in beating time.  3. Sensitive mental touch; peculiar skill or faculty; nice perception or discernment; ready power of appreciating and doing what is required by circumstances. He had formed plans not inferior in grandeur and boldness to those of Richelieu, and had carried them into effect with a tact and wariness worthy of Mazarin. Macaulay. A tact which surpassed the tact of her sex as much as the tact of her sex surpassed the tact of ours. Macaulay. 

TACTABLE:  Capable of being touched; tangible. [R.] "They [women] being created to be both tractable and tactable." Massinger. 

TACTFUL:  Full of tact; characterized by a discerning sense of what is right, proper, or judicious.  TACTIC; TACTICAL Tac"tic, Tac"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. tactics.]  Of or pertaining to the art of military and naval tactics.  -- Tac"tic*al*ly, adv. 

TACTIC:  See Tactics. 

TACTICIAN:  One versed in tactics; hence, a skillful maneuverer; an adroit manager. 

TACTILE:  Of or pertaining to the organs, or the sense, of touch; perceiving, or perceptible, by the touch; capable of being touched; as, tactile corpuscles; tactile sensations. "Tactile sweets." Beaumont. "Tactile qualities." Sir M. Hale. Tactile sense (Physiol.), the sense of touch, or pressure sense. See Touch. The delicacy of the tactile sense varies on different parts of the skin; it is geatest on the forehead, temples and back of the forearm. H. N. Martin. 

TACTILITY:  The quality or state of being tactile; perceptibility by touch; tangibleness. 

TACTION:  The act of touching; touch; contact; tangency. "External taction." Chesterfield. 

TACTLESS:  Destitute of tact. 

TACTUAL:  Of or pertaining to the sense, or the organs, of touch; derived from touch. In the lowest organisms we have a kind of tactual sense diffused over the entire body. Tyndall. 

TADPOLE:  The young aquatic larva of any amphibian. In this stage it breathes by means of external or internal gills, is at first destitute of legs, and has a finlike tail. Called also polliwig, polliwog, porwiggle, or purwiggy.  2. (Zoöl.)  The hooded merganser. [Local, U.S.] Tadpole fish. (Zoöl.) See Forkbeard (a). 

TAEDIUM:  See Tedium. 

TAEL:  A denomination of money, in China, worth nearly six shillings sterling, or about a dollar and forty cents; also, a weight of one ounce and a third. [Written also tale.]  TAEN; TA'EN Taen, or Ta'en,  p. p. of Ta, to take, or a contraction of Taken. [Poetic & Scot.] Burns. 

TAENIA:  A genus of intestinal worms which includes the common tapeworms of man. See Tapeworm.  2. (Anat.)  A band; a structural line; -- applied to several bands and lines of nervous matter in the brain.  3. (Arch.)  The fillet, or band, at the bottom of a Doric frieze, separating it from the architrave.  TAENIACIDE; TENIACIDE Tæ"ni*a*cide`, n. Also Te"ni*a*cide` . [Tænia + -cide.] (Med.)  A remedy to destroy tapeworms. 

TAENIADA:  Same as Tænioidea.  TAENIAFUGE; TENIAFUGE Tæ"ni*a*fuge`, n. Also Te"ni*a*fuge`. [Tænia + L. fugare to drive away.] (Med.)  A remedy to expel tapeworms.  TAENIASIS; TENIASIS Tæ*ni"a*sis, n. Also Te*ni"a*sis. [NL. See Tænia.] (Med.)  Ill health due to tænia, or tapeworms. 

TAENIATA:  A division of Ctenophora including those which have a long, ribbonlike body. The Venus's girdle is the most familiar example. 

TAENIDIUM:  The chitinous fiber forming the spiral thread of the tracheæ of insects. See Illust. of Trachea. 

TAENIOGLOSSA:  An extensive division of gastropod mollusks in which the odontophore is long and narrow, and usually bears seven rows of teeth. It includes a large number of families both marine and fresh- water. 

TAENIOGLOSSATE:  Of or pertaining to the Tænioglossa. 

TAENIOID:  Like or pertaining to Tænia. 

TAENIOIDEA:  The division of cestode worms which comprises the tapeworms. See Tapeworm. 

TAENIOLA:  One of the radial partitions which separate the internal cavities of certain medusæ. 

TAENIOSOMI:  An order of fishes remarkable for their long and compressed form. The ribbon fishes are examples. See Ribbon fish, under Ribbon. 

TAFFERER:  See Taffrail.  TAFFETA; TAFFETY Taf"fe*ta, Taf"fe*ty, n. Etym: [F. taffetas, It. taffetà, from Per. taftah, originally, twisted, woven, from taftan to twist, to spin.]  A fine, smooth stuff of silk, having usually the wavy luster called watering. The term has also been applied to different kinds of silk goods, from the 16th century to modern times. Lined with taffeta and with sendal. Chaucer. 

TAFFRAIL:  The upper part of a ship's stern, which is flat like a table on the top, and sometimes ornamented with carved work; the rail around a ship's stern. [Written also tafferel.] 

TAFIA:  A variety of rum. [West Indies] 

TAG:  A sale of usually used items (such as furniture, clothing, household items or bric-a-brac), conducted by one or a small group of individuals, at a location which is not a normal retail establishment.  Note: Frequently it is held in the private home or in a yard attached to a private home belonging to the seller. Similar to a yard sale or garage sale. Compare flea market, where used items are sold by many individuals in a place rented for the purpose. 

TAG:  To follow closely, as it were an appendage; -- often with after; as, to tag after a person. 

TAG:  A child's play in which one runs after and touches another, and then runs away to avoid being touched. 

TAGBELT:  Same as Tagsore. [Obs.]  TAG DAY Tag day.  A day on which contributions to some public or private charity or fund are solicited promiscuously on the street, and tags given to contributors to wear as an evidence of their having contributed. Such solicitation is now subject to legal restriction in various places. 

TAGGER:  Sheets of tin or other plate which run below the gauge. Knight.  4. A device for removing taglocks from sheep. Knight. 

TAGLET:  A little tag. 

TAGLIA:  A peculiar combination of pulleys. Brande & C. 

TAGLIACOTAIN:  Of or pertaining to Tagliacozzi, a Venetian surgeon; as, the Tagliacotian operation, a method of rhinoplasty described by him. [Also Taliacotian, and Tagliacozzian.] 

TAGLIONI:  A kind of outer coat, or overcoat; -- said to be so named after a celebrated Italian family of professional dancers. He ought certainly to exchange his taglioni, or comfortable greatcoat, for a cuirass of steel. Sir W. Scott. 

TAGLOCK:  An entangled lock, as of hair or wool. Nares. 

TAGNICATE:  The white-lipped peccary.  TAG-RAG Tag"-rag`, n. & a. Etym: [See Tag an end, and Rag.]  The lowest class of people; the rabble. Cf. Rag, tag, and bobtail, under Bobtail. If the tag-rag people did not clap him and hiss him, I am no true man. Shak. 

TAGSORE:  Adhesion of the tail of a sheep to the wool from excoriation produced by contact with the feces; -- called also tagbelt. [Obs.] 

TAGUAN:  A large flying squirrel (Pteromys petuarista). Its body becomes two feet long, with a large bushy tail nearly as long. 

TAGUICATI:  The white-lipped peccary. 

TAHA:  The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor). 

TAHALEB:  A fox (Vulpes Niloticus) of Northern Africa. 

TAHITIAN:  Of or pertaining to Tahiti, an island in the Pacific Ocean.  -- n.  A native inhabitant of Tahiti. 

TAHR:  Same as Thar. 

TAI:  Designating, or pertaining to, the chief linguistic stock of Indo-China, including the peoples of Siamese and Shan speech. 

TAI:  A member of one of the tribes of the Tai stock.  The Tais first appeared in history in Yunnan, and from thence they migrated into Upper Burma. The earliest swarms appear to have entered that tract about two thousand years ago, and were small in number. Census of India, 1901. 

TAIL:  Limitation; abridgment. Burrill. Estate in tail, a limited, abridged, or reduced fee; an estate limited to certain heirs, and from which the other heirs are precluded; -- called also estate tail. Blackstone. 

TAIL:  Limited; abridged; reduced; curtailed; as, estate tail. 

TAIL:  The terminal, and usually flexible, posterior appendage of an animal.  Note: The tail of mammals and reptiles contains a series of movable vertebræ, and is covered with flesh and hairs or scales like those of other parts of the body. The tail of existing birds consists of several more or less consolidated vertebræ which supports a fanlike group of quills to which the term tail is more particularly applied. The tail of fishes consists of the tapering hind portion of the body ending in a caudal fin. The term tail is sometimes applied to the entire abdomen of a crustacean or insect, and sometimes to the terminal piece or pygidium alone.  2. Any long, flexible terminal appendage; whatever resembles, in shape or position, the tail of an animal, as a catkin. Doretus writes a great praise of the distilled waters of those tails that hang on willow trees. Harvey.  3. Hence, the back, last, lower, or inferior part of anything, -- as opposed to the Ant: head, or the superior part. The Lord will make thee the head, and not the tail. Deut. xxviii. 13.  4. A train or company of attendants; a retinue. "Ah," said he, "if you saw but the chief with his tail on." Sir W. Scott.  5. The side of a coin opposite to that which bears the head, effigy, or date; the reverse; -- rarely used except in the expression "heads or tails," employed when a coin is thrown up for the purpose of deciding some point by its fall.  6. (Anat.)  The distal tendon of a muscle.  7. (Bot.)  A downy or feathery appendage to certain achens. It is formed of the permanent elongated style.  8. (Surg.) (a) A portion of an incision, at its beginning or end, which does not go through the whole thickness of the skin, and is more painful than a complete incision; -- called also tailing. (b) One of the strips at the end of a bandage formed by splitting the bandage one or more times.  9. (Naut.)  A rope spliced to the strap of a block, by which it may be lashed to anything.  10. (Mus.)  The part of a note which runs perpendicularly upward or downward from the head; the stem. Moore (Encyc. of Music).  11. pl.  Same as Tailing, 4.  12. (Arch.)  The bottom or lower portion of a member or part, as a slate or tile.  13. pl. (Mining)  See Tailing, n., 5. Tail beam. (Arch.) Same as Tailpiece.  -- Tail coverts (Zoöl.), the feathers which cover the bases of the tail quills. They are sometimes much longer than the quills, and form elegant plumes. Those above the quills are called the upper tail coverts, and those below, the under tail coverts.  -- Tail end, the latter end; the termination; as, the tail end of a contest. [Colloq.] -- Tail joist. (Arch.) Same as Tailpiece.  -- Tail of a comet (Astron.), a luminous train extending from the nucleus or body, often to a great distance, and usually in a direction opposite to the sun.  -- Tail of a gale (Naut.), the latter part of it, when the wind has greatly abated. Totten.  -- Tail of a lock (on a canal), the lower end, or entrance into the lower pond.  -- Tail of the trenches (Fort.), the post where the besiegers begin to break ground, and cover themselves from the fire of the place, in advancing the lines of approach.  -- Tail spindle, the spindle of the tailstock of a turning lathe; -- called also dead spindle.  -- To turn tail, to run away; to flee. Would she turn tail to the heron, and fly quite out another way; but all was to return in a higher pitch. Sir P. Sidney. 

TAIL:  To hold by the end; -- said of a timber when it rests upon a wall or other support; -- with in or into.  2. (Naut.)  To swing with the stern in a certain direction; -- said of a vessel at anchor; as, this vessel tails down stream. Tail on. (Naut.) See Tally on, under Tally. 

TAILAGE:  See Tallage.  TAIL-BAY Tail"-bay`, n.  1. (Arch.)  One of the joists which rest one end on the wall and the other on a girder; also, the space between a wall and the nearest girder of a floor. Cf. Case-bay.  2. The part of a canal lock below the lower gates. 

TAILBLOCK:  A block with a tail. See Tail, 9. 

TAILBOARD:  The board at the rear end of a cart or wagon, which can be removed or let down, for convenience in loading or unloading. 

TAILED:  Having a tail; having (such) a tail or (so many) tails; -- chiefly used in composition; as, bobtailed, longtailed, etc. Snouted and tailed like a boar. Grew. 

TAILING:  The part of a projecting stone or brick inserted in a wall. Gwilt.  2. (Surg.)  Same as Tail, n., 8 (a).  3. Sexual intercourse. [Obs.] Chaucer.  4. pl.  The lighter parts of grain separated from the seed threshing and winnowing; chaff.  5. pl. (Mining)  The refuse part of stamped ore, thrown behind the tail of the buddle or washing apparatus. It is dressed over again to secure whatever metal may exist in it. Called also tails. Pryce. 

TAILLE:  Any imposition levied by the king, or any other lord, upon his subjects. The taille, as it still subsists in France, may serve as an example of those ancient tallages. It was a tax upon the profits of the farmer, which they estimate by the stock that he has upon the farm. A. Smith.  3. (Mus.)  The French name for the tenor voice or part; also, for the tenor viol or viola. 

TAILLESS:  Having no tail. H. Spencer. 

TAILLIE:  Same as Tailzie. 

TAILOR:  The goldfish. [Prov. Eng.] Salt-water tailor (Zoöl.), the bluefish. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett.  -- Tailor bird (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small Asiatic and East Indian singing birds belonging to Orthotomus, Prinia, and allied genera. They are noted for the skill with which they sew leaves together to form nests. The common Indian species are O. longicauda, which has the back, scapulars, and upper tail coverts yellowish green, and the under parts white; and the golden-headed tailor bird (O. coronatus), which has the top of the head golden yellow and the back and wings pale olive-green. 

TAILOR:  To practice making men's clothes; to follow the business of a tailor. These tailoring artists for our lays Invent cramped rules. M. Green. 

TAILORESS:  A female tailor. 

TAILORING:  The business or the work of a tailor or a tailoress.  TAILOR-MADE Tai"lor-made`, a.  Made by a tailor or according to a tailor's fashion; -- said specif. of women's garments made with certain closeness of fit, simplicity of ornament, etc. 

TAILPIECE:  One of the timbers which tail into a header, in floor framing. See Illust. of Header.  3. (Print.)  An ornament placed at the bottom of a short page to fill up the space, or at the end of a book. Savage.  4. A piece of ebony or other material attached to the lower end of a violin or similar instrument, to which the strings are fastened. 

TAILPIN:  The center in the spindle of a turning lathe. 

TAILRACE:  The channel in which tailings, suspended in water, are conducted away. 

TAILSTOCK:  The sliding block or support, in a lathe, which carries the dead spindle, or adjustable center. The headstock supports the live spindle.  TAIL-WATER Tail"-wa`ter, n.  Water in a tailrace. 

TAILZIE:  An entailment or deed whereby the legal course of succession is cut off, and an arbitrary one substituted. [Written also tailzee.] 

TAIN:  Thin tin plate; also, tin foil for mirrors. Knight. 

TAINT:  To thrust ineffectually with a lance. [Obs.] 

TAINTLESS:  Free from taint or infection; pure. 

TAINTLESSLY:  In a taintless manner. 

TAINTURE:  Taint; tinge; difilement; stain; spot. [R.] Shak. 

TAINTWORM:  A destructive parasitic worm or insect larva.  TAIPING; TAEPING Tai"ping", or Tae"ping", a. [Chin. t'aip'ing great peace.] (Chinese Hist.)  Pertaining to or designating a dynasty with which one Hung-Siu- Chuen, a half-religious, half-political enthusiast, attempted to supplant the Manchu dynasty by the Taiping rebellion, incited by him in 1850 and suppressed by General Gordon about 1864. 

TAIRA:  Same as Tayra. 

TAIRN:  See Tarn. Coleridge. 

TAIT:  A small nocturnal and arboreal Australian marsupial (Tarsipes rostratus) about the size of a mouse. It has a long muzzle, a long tongue, and very few teeth, and feeds upon honey and insects. Called also noolbenger.  TAJACU; TAJASSU Ta*jaç"u, Ta*jas"su, n. Etym: [Pg. tajaç\'a3, from Braz. tayaç\'a3 a hog or swine.] (Zoöl.)  The common, or collared, peccary.  TAJ MAHAL Taj Ma*hal" (täj ma*häl"). [Corruption of Per. Mumtaz-i-Mahsal, lit., the distinguished one of the palace, fr. Ar.]  A marble mausoleum built at Agra, India, by the Mogul Emperor Shah Jahan, in memory of his favorite wife. In beauty of design and rich decorative detail it is one of the best examples of Saracenic architecture. 

TAKE:  Taken. Chaucer. 

TAKE:  The quantity or copy given to a compositor at one time.  TAKE-IN Take"-in`, n.  Imposition; fraud. [Colloq.] 

TAKEN:  p. p. of Take.  TAKE-OFF Take"-off`, n.  An imitation, especially in the way of caricature. 

TAKER:  One who takes or receives; one who catches or apprehended.  TAKE-UP Take"-up`, n. (Mach.)  That which takes up or tightens; specifically, a device in a sewing machine for drawing up the slack thread as the needle rises, in completing a stitch. 

TAKING:  Removal; murder. See To take off (c), under Take, v. t. The deep damnation of his taking-off. Shak. 

TALAPOIN:  A small African monkey (Cercopithecus, or Miopithecus, talapoin) -- called also melarhine. 

TALARIA:  Small wings or winged shoes represented as fastened to the ankles, -- chiefly used as an attribute of Mercury. 

TALBOT:  A sort of dog, noted for quick scent and eager pursuit of game. [Obs.] Wase (1654).  Note: The figure of a dog is borne in the arms of the Talbot family, whence, perhaps, the name. 

TALBOTYPE:  Same as Calotype. 

TALC:  A soft mineral of a soapy feel and a greenish, whitish, or grayish color, usually occurring in foliated masses. It is hydrous silicate of magnesia. Steatite, or soapstone, is a compact granular variety. Indurated talc, an impure, slaty talc, with a nearly compact texture, and greater hardness than common talc; -- called also talc slate.  TALCOSE; TALCOUS Tal*cose", Talc"ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talqueux.] (Min.)  Of or pertaining to talc; composed of, or resembling, talc. 

TALCUM:  Same as Talc. 

TALE:  See Tael. 

TALE:  A count or declaration. [Obs.] To tell tale of, to make account of. [Obs.] Therefore little tale hath he told Of any dream, so holy was his heart. Chaucer.  Syn.  -- Anecdote; story; fable; incident; memoir; relation; account; legend; narrative. 

TALE:  To tell stories. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gower. 

TALEBEARER:  One who officiously tells tales; one who impertinently or maliciously communicates intelligence, scandal, etc., and makes mischief. Spies and talebearers, encouraged by her father, did their best to inflame her resentment. Macaulay. 

TALEBEARING:  Telling tales officiously. 

TALEBEARING:  The act of informing officiously; communication of sectrts, scandal, etc., maliciously. 

TALED:  A kind of quadrangular piece of cloth put on by the Jews when repeating prayers in the synagogues. Crabb. 

TALEFUL:  Full of stories. [R.] Thomson. 

TALEGALLA:  A genus of Australian birds which includes the brush turkey. See Brush turkey. 

TALENTED:  Furnished with talents; possessing skill or talent; mentally gifted. Abp. Abbot (1663).  Note: This word has been strongly objected to by Coleridge and some other critics, but, as it would seem, upon not very good grounds, as the use of talent or talents to signify mental ability, although at first merely metaphorical, is now fully established, and talented, as a formative, is just as analogical and legitimate as gifted, bigoted, moneyed, landed, lilied, honeyed, and numerous other adjectives having a participal form, but derived directly from nouns and not from verbs. 

TALES:  Persons added to a jury, commonly from those in or about the courthouse, to make up any deficiency in the number of jurors regularly summoned, being like, or such as, the latter. Blount. Blackstone. (b) syntactically sing.  The writ by which such persons are summoned. Tales book, a book containing the names of such as are admitted of the tales. Blount. Craig.  -- Tales de circumstantibus Etym: [L.], such, or the like, from those standing about. 

TALESMAN:  A person called to make up a deficiency in the number of jurors when a tales is awarded. Wharton. 

TALETELLER:  One who tells tales or stories, especially in a mischievous or officious manner; a talebearer; a telltale; a tattler. 

TALEWISE:  In a way of a tale or story. 

TALIACOTIAN:  See Tagliacotian. 

TALIATION:  Retaliation. [Obs.] Just heav'n this taliation did decree. Beaumont. 

TALION:  Retaliation. [R.] Holinshed. 

TALIPES:  The deformity called clubfoot. See Clubfoot.  Note: Several varieties are distinguished; as, Talipes varus, in which the foot is drawn up and bent inward; T. valgus, in which the foot is bent outward; T. equinus, in which the sole faces backward and the patient walks upon the balls of the toes; and T. calcaneus (called also talus), in which the sole faces forward and the patient walks upon the heel. 

TALIPOT:  A beautiful tropical palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), a native of Ceylon and the Malabar coast. It has a trunk sixty or seventy feet high, bearing a crown of gigantic fan-shaped leaves which are used as umbrellas and as fans in ceremonial processions, and, when cut into strips, as a substitute for writing paper. 

TALISMAN:  Of or pertaining to a talisman; having the properties of a talisman, or preservative against evils by occult influence; magical. 

TALKATIVE:  Given to much talking.  Syn.  -- Garrulous; loquacious. See Garrulous.  -- Talk"a*tive*ly, adv.  -- Talk"a*tive*ness, n. 

TALL:  A certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior tenants, toward the public expenses. [Written also tailage, taillage.]  Note: When paid out of knight's fees, it was called scutage; when by cities and burghs, tallage; when upon lands not held by military tenure, hidage. Blackstone. 

TALLAGE:  To lay an impost upon; to cause to pay tallage. 

TALLIER:  One who keeps tally. 

TALLIS:  Same as Tallith. 

TALLNESS:  The quality or state of being tall; height of stature. 

TALLOWER:  An animal which produces tallow.  TALLOW-FACE Tal"low-face`, n.  One who has a sickly, pale complexion. Shak.  TALLOW-FACED Tal"low-faced`, a.  Having a sickly complexion; pale. Burton. 

TALLOWING:  The act, or art, of causing animals to produce tallow; also, the property in animals of producing tallow. 

TALLOWISH:  Having the qualities of tallow. 

TALLOWY:  Of the nature of tallow; resembling tallow; greasy. 

TALLWOOD:  Firewood cut into billets of a certain length. [Obs.] [Eng.] 

TALLY:  To check off, as parcels of freight going inboard or outboard. W. C. Russell. Tally on (Naut.), to dovetail together. 

TALLY:  Stoutly; with spirit. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

TALMUD:  The body of the Jewish civil and canonical law not comprised in the Pentateuch.  Note: The Talmud consists of two parts, the Mishna, or text, and the Gemara, or commentary. Sometimes, however, the name Talmud is restricted, especially by Jewish writers, to the Gemara. There are two Talmuds, the Palestinian, commonly, but incorrectly, called the Talmud of Jerusalem, and the Babylonian Talmud. They contain the same Mishna, but different Gemaras. The Babylonian Talmud is about three times as large as the other, and is more highly esteemed by the Jews.  TALMUDIC; TALMUDICAL Tal*mud"ic, Tal*mud"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talmudique.]  Of or pertaining to the Talmud; contained in the Talmud; as, Talmudic Greek; Talmudical phrases. Lightfoot. 

TALMUDISM:  The teachings of the Talmud, or adherence to them. 

TALMUDIST:  One versed in the Talmud; one who adheres to the teachings of the Talmud. 

TALMUDISTIC:  Resembling the Talmud; Talmudic. 

TALON:  One of certain small prominences on the hind part of the face of an elephant's tooth.  3. (Arch.)  A kind of molding, concave at the bottom and convex at the top; -- usually called an ogee.  Note: When the concave part is at the top, it is called an inverted talon.  4. The shoulder of the bolt of a lock on which the key acts to shoot the bolt. Knight.  TALOOK; TALUK Ta*look", Ta*luk", n. Etym: [Ar. ta'lluq.]  A large estate; esp., one constituting a revenue district or dependency the native proprietor of which is responsible for the collection and payment of the public revenue due from it. [India]  TALOOKDAR; TALUKDAR Ta*look"dar, Ta*luk"dar, n. Etym: [Hind., fr. Per. ta'lluqdar.]  A proprietor of a talook. [India] 

TALPA:  A genus of small insectivores including the common European mole. 

TALUS:  The astragalus.  2. (Surg.)  A variety of clubfoot (Talipes calcaneus). See the Note under Talipes. 

TALUS:  A slope; the inclination of the face of a work.  2. (Geol.)  A sloping heap of fragments of rock lying at the foot of a precipice. 

TAMABILITY:  The quality or state of being tamable; tamableness. 

TAMABLE:  Capable of being tamed, subdued, or reclaimed from wildness or savage ferociousness.  -- Tam"a*ble*ness, n. 

TAMALE:  A Mexican dish made of crushed maize mixed with minced meat, seasoned with red pepper, dipped in oil, and steamed. 

TAMANDU:  A small ant-eater (Tamandua tetradactyla) native of the tropical parts of South America.  Note: It has five toes on the fore feet, an elongated snout, small ears, and short woolly hair. Its tail is stout and hairy at the base, tapering, and covered with minute scales, and is somewhat prehensile at the end. Called also tamandua, little ant-bear, fourmilier, and cagouare. The collared, or striped, tamandu (Tamandua bivittata) is considered a distinct species by some writers, but by others is regarded as only a variety. 

TAMANOIR:  The ant-bear. 

TAMARIC:  A shrub or tree supposed to be the tamarisk, or perhaps some kind of heath. [Obs.] He shall be like tamaric in the desert, and he shall not see when good shall come. Jer. xvii. 6 (Douay version). 

TAMARIN:  Any one of several species of small squirrel-like South American monkeys of the genus Midas, especially M. ursulus. 

TAMARISK:  Any shrub or tree of the genus Tamarix, the species of which are European and Asiatic. They have minute scalelike leaves, and small flowers in spikes. An Arabian species (T. mannifera) is the source of one kind of manna. Tamarisk salt tree, an East Indian tree (Tamarix orientalis) which produces an incrustation of salt. 

TAMBAC:  See Tombac. [Obs.] 

TAMBOUR:  A kind of small flat drum; a tambourine.  2. A small frame, commonly circular, and somewhat resembling a tambourine, used for stretching, and firmly holding, a portion of cloth that is to be embroidered; also, the embroidery done upon such a frame; -- called also, in the latter sense, tambour work.  3. (Arch.)  Same as Drum, n., 2(d).  4. (Fort.)  A work usually in the form of a redan, to inclose a space before a door or staircase, or at the gorge of a larger work. It is arranged like a stockade.  5. (Physiol.)  A shallow metallic cup or drum, with a thin elastic membrane supporting a writing lever. Two or more of these are connected by an India rubber tube, and used to transmit and register the movements of the pulse or of any pulsating artery. 

TAMBOUR:  To embroider on a tambour. 

TAMBOURIN:  An old Provençal dance of a lively character, common on the stage. 

TAMBOURINE:  A small drum, especially a shallow drum with only one skin, played on with the hand, and having bells at the sides; a timbrel. 

TAMBREET:  The duck mole. 

TAMBURIN:  See Tambourine. Spenser. 

TAME:  To broach or enter upon; to taste, as a liquor; to divide; to distribute; to deal out. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] In the time of famine he is the Joseph of the country, and keeps the poor from starving. Then he tameth his stacks of corn, which not his covetousness, but providence, hath reserved for time of need. Fuller. 

TAMEABLE:  Tamable. Bp. Wilkins. 

TAMELESS:  Incapable of being tamed; wild; untamed; untamable. Bp. Hall.  -- Tame"less*ness, n. 

TAMELY:  In a tame manner. 

TAMENESS:  The quality or state of being tame. 

TAMER:  One who tames or subdues. 

TAMIAS:  A genus of ground squirrels, including the chipmunk. 

TAMIL:  Of or pertaining to the Tamils, or to their language. [Written also Tamul.] 

TAMIL:  One of a Dravidian race of men native of Northern Ceylon and Southern India.  2. The Tamil language, the most important of the Dravidian languages. See Dravidian, a. 

TAMILIAN:  Tamil.  TAMINE; TAMINY Tam"ine, Tam"i*ny, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tamis a sort of sieve. Cf. Stamin, Temse.]  A kind of woolen cloth; tammy. 

TAMKIN:  A tampion. Johnson (Dict.). 

TAMPAN:  A venomous South African tick. Livingstone. 

TAMPEON:  See Tampion. Farrow. 

TAMPERER:  One who tampers; one who deals unfairly.  TAMPICO FIBER; TAMPICO FIBRE Tam*pi"co fi"ber or; Tam*pi"co fi"bre.  A tough vegetable fiber used as a substitute for bristles in making brushes. The piassava and the ixtle are both used under this name. 

TAMPION:  A plug for upper end of an organ pipe. 

TAMPOE:  The edible fruit of an East Indian tree (Baccaurea Malayana) of the Spurge family. It somewhat resembles an apple. 

TAMPON:  A plug introduced into a natural or artificial cavity of the body in order to arrest hemorrhage, or for the application of medicine. 

TAMPON:  To plug with a tampon. 

TAMPOON:  The stopper of a barrel; a bung.  TAM-'-SHANTER Tam`-o'-shan"ter, n. [So named after Tam o'Shanter, a character in Burns's poem of the same name.]  A kind of Scotch cap of wool, worsted, or the like, having a round, flattish top much wider than the band which fits the head, and usually having a tassel in the center.  TAM-TAM Tam"-tam`, n. Etym: [Hind.; of imitative origin.] (Mus.) (a) A kind of drum used in the East Indies and other Oriental countries; -- called also tom-tom. (b) A gong. See Gong, n., 1. 

TAMUL:  Tamil. 

TAMWORTH:  One of a long-established English breed of large pigs. They are red, often spotted with black, with a long snout and erect or forwardly pointed ears, and are valued as bacon producers. 

TAN:  See Picul. 

TAN:  Of the color of tan; yellowish-brown. Black and tan. See under Black, a. 

TAN:  To get or become tanned. 

TANA:  Same as Banxring. 

TANAGER:  Any one of numerous species of bright-colored singing birds belonging to Tanagra, Piranga, and allied genera. The scarlet tanager (Piranga erythromelas) and the summer redbird (Piranga rubra) are common species of the United States. 

TANAGRINE:  Of or pertaining to the tanagers. 

TANAGROID:  Tanagrine. 

TANATE:  An Asiatic wild dog (Canis procyonoides), native of Japan and adjacent countries. It has a short, bushy tail. Called also raccoon dog. 

TANDEM:  One after another; -- said especially of horses harnessed and driven one before another, instead of abreast. 

TANDEM:  A team of horses harnessed one before the other. "He drove tandems." Thackeray. Tandem engine, a compound steam engine having two or more steam cylinders in the same axis, close to one another.  -- Tandem bicycle or tricycle, one for two persons in which one rider sits before the other.  TANDEM CART Tan"dem cart.  A kind of two-wheeled vehicle with seats back to back, the front one somewhat elevated.  TANDEM ENGINE Tandem engine.  A steam engine having two or more steam cylinders in line, with a common piston rod.  TANDEM SYSTEM Tandem system. (Elec.)  = Cascade system. 

TANG:  A coarse blackish seaweed (Fuscus nodosus). Dr. Prior. Tang sparrow (Zoöl.), the rock pipit. [Prov. Eng.] 

TANG:  A projecting part of an object by means of which it is secured to a handle, or to some other part; anything resembling a tongue in form or position. Specifically: -- (a) The part of a knife, fork, file, or other small instrument, which is inserted into the handle. (b) The projecting part of the breech of a musket barrel, by which the barrel is secured to the stock. (c) The part of a sword blade to which the handle is fastened. (d) The tongue of a buckle. [Prov. Eng.] 

TANG:  A sharp, twanging sound; an unpleasant tone; a twang. 

TANG:  To cause to ring or sound loudly; to ring. Let thy tongue tang arguments of state. Shak. To tang bees, to cause a swarm of bees to settle, by beating metal to make a din. 

TANG:  To make a ringing sound; to ring. Let thy tongue tang arguments of state. Shak. 

TANGALUNG:  An East Indian civet (Viverra tangalunga). 

TANGELO:  A hybrid between the tangerine orange and the grapefruit, or pomelo; also, the fruit. 

TANGENCE:  Tangency. [R.] 

TANGENCY:  The quality or state of being tangent; a contact or touching. 

TANGENT:  A tangent line curve, or surface; specifically, that portion of the straight line tangent to a curve that is between the point of tangency and a given line, the given line being, for example, the axis of abscissas, or a radius of a circle produced. See Trigonometrical function, under Function. Artificial, or Logarithmic, tangent, the logarithm of the natural tangent of an arc.  -- Natural tangent, a decimal expressing the length of the tangent of an arc, the radius being reckoned unity.  -- Tangent galvanometer (Elec.), a form of galvanometer having a circular coil and a short needle, in which the tangent of the angle of deflection of the needle is proportional to the strength of the current.  -- Tangent of an angle, the natural tangent of the arc subtending or measuring the angle.  -- Tangent of an arc, a right line, as ta, touching the arc of a circle at one extremity a, and terminated by a line ct, passing from the center through the other extremity o. 

TANGENT:  Touching; touching at a single point; specifically (Geom.)  meeting a curve or surface at a point and having at that point the same direction as the curve or surface; -- said of a straight line, curve, or surface; as, a line tangent to a curve; a curve tangent to a surface; tangent surfaces. Tangent plane (Geom.), a plane which touches a surface in a point or line.  -- Tangent scale (Gun.), a kind of breech sight for a cannon.  -- Tangent screw (Mach.), an endless screw; a worm. 

TANGENTAL:  Tangential. 

TANGENTIAL:  Of or pertaining to a tangent; in the direction of a tangent. Tangential force (Mech.), a force which acts on a moving body in the direction of a tangent to the path of the body, its effect being to increase or diminish the velocity; -- distinguished from a normal force, which acts at right angles to the tangent and changes the direction of the motion without changing the velocity.  -- Tangential stress. (Engin.) See Shear, n., 3. 

TANGENTIALLY:  In the direction of a tangent.  TANGENT SPOKE Tangent spoke.  A tension spoke of a bicycle or similar wheel, secured tangentially to the hub.  TANGENT WHEEL Tangent wheel.  (a) A worm or worm wheel; a tangent screw.  (b) A wheel with tangent spokes. 

TANGERINE:  A kind of orange, much like the mandarin, but of deeper color and higher flavor. It is said to have been produced in America from the mandarin. [Written also tangierine.] 

TANGFISH:  The common harbor seal. [Prov. Eng.] 

TANGHINIA:  The ordeal tree. See under Ordeal. 

TANGIBILITY:  The quality or state of being tangible. 

TANGLE:  To be entangled or united confusedly; to get in a tangle. 

TANGLE:  Any large blackish seaweed, especially the Laminaria saccharina. See Kelp. Coral and sea fan and tangle, the blooms and the palms of the ocean. C. Kingsley.  2. Etym: [From Tangle, v.]  A knot of threads, or other thing, united confusedly, or so interwoven as not to be easily disengaged; a snarl; as, hair or yarn in tangles; a tangle of vines and briers. Used also figuratively.  3. pl.  An instrument consisting essentiallly of an iron bar to which are attached swabs, or bundles of frayed rope, or other similar substances, -- used to capture starfishes, sea urchins, and other similar creatures living at the bottom of the sea. Blue tangle. (Bot.)See Dangleberry.  -- Tangle picker (Zoöl.), the turnstone. [Prov. Eng.] 

TANGLEFISH:  The sea adder, or great pipefish of Europe. 

TANGLINGLY:  In a tangling manner. 

TANGRAM:  A Chinese toy made by cutting a square of thin wood, or other suitable material, into seven pieces, as shown in the cut, these pieces being capable of combination in various ways, so as to form a great number of different figures. It is now often used in primary schools as a means of instruction. 

TANGUE:  The tenrec. 

TANGUN:  A piebald variety of the horse, native of Thibet. 

TANGWHAUP:  The whimbrel. [Prov. Eng.] 

TANIER:  An aroid plant (Caladium sagittæfolium), the leaves of which are boiled and eaten in the West Indies. [Written also tannier.] 

TANIST:  In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of a castle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry. This family [the O'Hanlons] were tanists of a large territory within the present county of Armagh. M. A. Lower. 

TANISTRY:  In Ireland, a tenure of family lands by which the proprietor had only a life estate, to which he was admitted by election.  Note: The primitive intention seems to have been that the inheritance should descend to the oldest or most worthy of the blood and name of the deceased. This was, in reality, giving it to the strongest; and the practice often occasioned bloody feuds in families, for which reason it was abolished under James I. 

TANITE:  A firm composition of emery and a certain kind of cement, used for making grinding wheels, slabs, etc. 

TANK:  A small Indian dry measure, averaging 240 grains in weight; also, a Bombay weight of 72 grains, for pearls. Simmonds. 

TANK:  A large basin or cistern; an artificial receptacle for liquids. Tank engine, a locomotive which carries the water and fuel it requires, thus dispensing with a tender.  -- Tank iron, plate iron thinner than boiler plate, and thicker than sheet iron or stovepipe iron.  -- Tank worm (Zoöl.), a small nematoid worm found in the water tanks of India, supposed by some to be the young of the Guinea worm. 

TANKA:  A kind of boat used in Canton. It is about 25 feet long and is often rowed by women. Called also tankia. S. W. Williams. 

TANKARD:  A large drinking vessel, especially one with a cover. Marius was the first who drank out of a silver tankard, after the manner of Bacchus. Arbuthnot. 

TANKIA:  See Tanka. 

TANKLING:  A tinkling. [Obs.]  TANK SHIP; TANK VESSEL Tank ship, Tank vessel . (Naut.)  A vessel fitted with tanks for the carrying of oil or other liquid in bulk. 

TANLING:  One tanned by the sun. [R.] Hot summer's tanlings and The shrinking slaves of winter. Shak. 

TANNABLE:  That may be tanned. 

TANNAGE:  A tanning; the act, operation, or result of tanning. [R.] They should have got his cheek fresh tannage. R. Browning. 

TANNATE:  A salt of tannic acid. 

TANNER:  One whose occupation is to tan hides, or convert them into leather by the use of tan. 

TANNIC:  Of or pertaining to tan; derived from, or resembling, tan; as, tannic acid. Tannic acid. (Chem.) (a) An acid obtained from nutgalls as a yellow amorphous substance, C14H10O9, having an astringent taste, and forming with ferric salts a bluish-black compound, which is the basis of common ink. Called also tannin, and gallotannic acid. (b) By extension, any one of a series of astringent substances resembling tannin proper, widely diffused through the vegetable kingdom, as in oak bark, willow, catechu, tea, coffee, etc. 

TANNIER:  See Tanier. 

TANNIGEN:  A compound obtained as a yellowish gray powder by the action of acetyl chloride or acetic anhydride or ordinary tannic acid. It is used as an intestinal astringent, and locally in rhinitis and pharyngitis. 

TANNIN:  Same as Tannic acid, under Tannic. 

TANNING:  The art or process of converting skins into leather. See Tan, v. t., 1. 

TANREC:  Same as Tenrec. 

TANSY:  Any plant of the composite genus Tanacetum. The common tansy (T. vulgare) has finely divided leaves, a strong aromatic odor, and a very bitter taste. It is used for medicinal and culinary purposes.  2. A dish common in the seventeenth century, made of eggs, sugar, rose water, cream, and the juice of herbs, baked with butter in a shallow dish. [Obs.] Pepys. Double tansy (Bot.), a variety of the common tansy with the leaves more dissected than usual.  -- Tansy mustard (Bot.), a plant (Sisymbrium canescens) of the Mustard family, with tansylike leaves. 

TANT:  A small scarlet arachnid. 

TANTALATE:  A salt of tantalic acid. 

TANTALIC:  Of or pertaining to tantalum; derived from, or containing, tantalum; specifically, designating any one of a series of acids analogous to nitric acid and the polyacid compounds of phosphorus. 

TANTALISM:  A punishment like that of Tantalus; a teasing or tormenting by the hope or near approach of good which is not attainable; tantalization. Addison. Is not such a provision like tantalism to this people Josiah Quincy. 

TANTALITE:  A heavy mineral of an iron-black color and submetallic luster. It is essentially a tantalate of iron. 

TANTALIZATION:  The act of tantalizing, or state of being tantalized. Gayton. 

TANTALIZE:  To tease or torment by presenting some good to the view and exciting desire, but continually frustrating the expectations by keeping that good out of reach; to tease; to torment. Thy vain desires, at strife Within themselves, have tantalized thy life. Dryden.  Syn.  -- To tease; vex; irritate; provoke.  -- Tantalize, Disappoint. To disappoint is literally to do away with what was (or was taken to be) appointed; hence the peculiar pain from hopes thus dashed to the ground. To tantalize, a much stronger term, describes a most distressing form of disappointment, as in the case of Tantalus, the Phrygian king. To tantalize is to visit with the bitterest disappointment -- to torment by exciting hopes or expectations which can never be realized. 

TANTALIZER:  One who tantalizes. 

TANTALIZINGLY:  In a tantalizing or teasing manner. 

TANTALUM:  A rare nonmetallic element found in certain minerals, as tantalite, samarskite, and fergusonite, and isolated as a dark powder which becomes steel-gray by burnishing. Symbol Ta. Atomic weight 182.0. Formerly called also tantalium. 

TANTALUS:  A genus of wading birds comprising the wood ibises. Tantalus's cup (Physics), a philosophical toy, consisting of a cup, within which is the figure of a man, and within the figure a siphon, the longer arm of which passes down through the bottom of the cup, and allows the escape of any liquid that may be poured in, when it reaches as high as the bend of the siphon, which is just below the level of the mouth of the figure in the cup. 

TANTAMOUNT:  Equivalent in value, signification, or effect. A usage nearly tantamount to constitutional right. Hallam. The certainty that delay, under these circumstances, was tantamount to ruin. De Quincey. 

TANTAMOUNT:  To be tantamount or equivalent; to amount. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

TANTIVY:  Swiftly; speedily; rapidly; -- a fox-hunting term; as, to ride tantivy. 

TANTIVY:  A rapid, violent gallop; an impetulous rush. Cleverland. 

TANTIVY:  To go away in haste. [Colloq.] 

TANTRA:  A ceremonial treatise related to Puranic and magic literature; esp., one of the sacred works of the worshipers of Sakti. -- Tan"tric (-trik), a. 

TANTRISM:  The system of doctrines and  rites taught in the tantras. -- Tan"trist (#), n. 

TANTRUM:  A whim, or burst of ill-humor; an affected air. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

TANYARD:  An inclosure where the tanning of leather is carried on; a tannery. 

TANYSTOMATA:  A division of dipterous insects in which the proboscis is large and contains lancelike mandibles and maxillæ. The horseflies and robber flies are examples. 

TAOISM:  One of the popular religions of China, sanctioned by the state.  -- Ta"o*ist, a. & n. 

TAOTAI:  In China, an official at the head of the civil and military affairs of a circuit, which consists of two or more fu, or territorial departments; --called also, by foreigners, intendant of circuit. Foreign consuls and commissioners associated with taotais as superintendants of trade at the treaty ports are ranked with the taotai. 

TAP:  A signal, by drum or trumpet, for extinguishing all lights in soldiers' quarters and retiring to bed, -- usually given about a quarter of an hour after tattoo. Wilhelm. 

TAP:  To strike a gentle blow. 

TAP:  A tool for forming an internal screw, as in a nut, consisting of a hardened steel male screw grooved longitudinally so as to have cutting edges. On tap. (a) Ready to be drawn; as, ale on tap. (b) Broached, or furnished with a tap; as, a barrel on tap.  -- Plug tap (Mech.), a screw-cutting tap with a slightly tapering end.  -- Tap bolt, a bolt with a head on one end and a thread on the other end, to be screwed into some fixed part, instead of passing through the part and receiving a nut. See Illust. under Bolt.  -- Tap cinder (Metal.), the slag of a puddling furnace. 

TAP:  To form an internal screw in (anything) by means of a tool called a tap; as, to tap a nut. 

TAPA:  A kind of cloth prepared by the Polynesians from the inner bark of the paper mulberry; -- sometimes called also kapa.  TAPADERA; TAPADERO Tap`a*de"ra, Tap`a*de"ro, n. [Also tapidero.] [Sp. tapadera lid, cover.]  One of the leather hoods which cover the stirrups of a Mexican saddle. 

TAPAYAXIN:  A Mexican spinous lizard (Phrynosoma orbiculare) having a head somewhat like that of a toad; -- called also horned toad. 

TAPELINE:  A painted tape, marked with linear dimensions, as inches, feet, etc., and often inclosed in a case, -- used for measuring. 

TAPER:  Regularly narrowed toward the point; becoming small toward one end; conical; pyramidical; as, taper fingers. 

TAPER:  To become gradually smaller toward one end; as, a sugar loaf tapers toward one end. 

TAPER:  To make or cause to taper. 

TAPERED:  Lighted with a taper or tapers; as, a tapered choir. [R.] T. Warton. 

TAPERING:  Becoming gradually smaller toward one end.  -- Ta"per*ing*ly, adv. 

TAPERNESS:  The quality or state of being taper; tapering form; taper. Shenstone. 

TAPESTRY:  A fabric, usually of worsted, worked upon a warp of linen or other thread by hand, the designs being usually more or less pictorial and the stuff employed for wall hangings and the like. The term is also applied to different kinds of embroidery. Tapestry carpet, a kind of carpet, somewhat resembling Brussels, in which the warp is printed before weaving, so as to produce the figure in the cloth.  -- Tapestry moth. (Zoöl.) Same as Carpet moth, under Carpet. 

TAPESTRY:  To adorn with tapestry, or as with tapestry. The Trosachs wound, as now, between gigantic walls of rock tapestried with broom and wild roses. Macaulay.  TAPESTRY BEETLE Tap"es*try bee"tle.  A small black dermestoid beetle (Attagenus piceus) whose larva feeds on tapestry, carpets, silk, fur, flour, and various other goods. 

TAPET:  Worked or figured stuff; tapestry. [R.] Spenser. 

TAPETI:  A small South American hare (Lepus Braziliensis). 

TAPETUM:  An area in the pigmented layer of the choroid coat of the eye in many animals, which has an iridescent or metallic luster and helps to make the eye visible in the dark. Sometimes applied to the whole layer of pigmented epithelium of the choroid. 

TAPEWORM:  Any one of numerous species of cestode worms belonging to Tænia and many allied genera. The body is long, flat, and composed of numerous segments or proglottids varying in shape, those toward the end of the body being much larger and longer than the anterior ones, and containing the fully developed sexual organs. The head is small, destitute of a mouth, but furnished with two or more suckers (which vary greatly in shape in different genera), and sometimes, also, with hooks for adhesion to the walls of the intestines of the animals in which they are parasitic. The larvæ (see Cysticercus) live in the flesh of various creatures, and when swallowed by another animal of the right species develop into the mature tapeworm in its intestine. See Illustration in Appendix.  Note: Three species are common parasites of man: the pork tapeworm (Tænia solium), the larva of which is found in pork; the beef tapeworm (T. mediocanellata), the larva of which lives in the flesh of young cattle; and the broad tapeworm (Bothriocephalus latus) which is found chiefly in the inhabitants of the mountainous regions of Europe and Asia. See also Echinococcus, Cysticercus, Proglottis, and 2d Measles, 4. 

TAPHOUSE:  A house where liquors are retailed. 

TAPHRENCHYMA:  Same as Bothrenchyma. 

TAPINAGE:  A lurking or skulking. [Obs.] Gower. 

TAPIOCA:  A coarsely granular substance obtained by heating, and thus partly changing, the moistened starch obtained from the roots of the cassava. It is much used in puddings and as a thickening for soups. See Cassava. 

TAPIR:  Any one of several species of large odd-toed ungulates belonging to Tapirus, Elasmognathus, and allied genera. They have a long prehensile upper lip, short ears, short and stout legs, a short, thick tail, and short, close hair. They have three toes on the hind feet, and four toes on the fore feet, but the outermost toe is of little use.  Note: The best-known species are the Indian tapir (Tapirus Indicus), native of the East Indies and Malacca, which is black with a broad band of white around the middle, and the common American tapir (T. Americanus), which, when adult, is dull brown. Several others species inhabit the Andes and Central America. Tapir tiger (Zoöl.), the wallah. 

TAPIROID:  Allied to the tapir, or the Tapir family. 

TAPIS:  Tapestry; formerly, the cover of a council table. On, or Upon, the tapis, on the table, or under consideration; as, to lay a motion in Parliament on the tapis. 

TAPIS:  To cover or work with figures like tapestry. [R.] Holland. 

TAPISER:  A maker of tapestry; an upholsterer. [R.] Chaucer. 

TAPISH:  To lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to crouch; hence, to hide one's self. [Written also tappis, tappish, tappice.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] As a hound that, having roused a hart, Although he tappish ne'er so soft. Chapman. 

TAPLASH:  Bad small beer; also, the refuse or dregs of liquor. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] The taplash of strong ale and wine. Taylor (1630). 

TAPLINGS:  The strong double leathers by which the two parts of a flail are united. Halliwell.  TAPOA TAFA Ta*po"a ta"fa. (Zoöl.)  A small carnivorous marsupial (Phascogale penicillata) having long, soft fur, and a very long tail with a tuft of long hairs at the end; -- called also brush-tailed phascogale. 

TAPPEN:  An obstruction, or indigestible mass, found in the intestine of bears and other animals during hibernation. 

TAPPER:  The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor); -- called also tapperer, tabberer, little wood pie, barred woodpecker, wood tapper, hickwall, and pump borer. [Prov. Eng.] 

TAPPESTER:  A female tapster. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TAPPET:  A lever or projection moved by some other piece, as a cam, or intended to tap or touch something else, with a view to produce change or regulate motion. G. Francis. Tappet motion, a valve motion worked by tappets from a reciprocating part, without an eccentric or cam, -- used in steam pumps, etc.  TAPPET ROD Tap"pet rod. (Mech.)  A rod carrying a tappet or tappets, as one for closing the valves in a Cornish pumping engine.  TAPPICE; TAPPIS Tap"pice, Tap"pis, v. i.  See Tapish.  TAPPIT HEN Tap"pit hen`.  1. A hen having a tuft of feathers on her head. [Scot.] Jamieson.  2. A measuring pot holding one quart (according to some, three quarts); -- so called from a knob on the lid, though to resemble a crested hen. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

TAPPOON:  A piece of wood or sheet metal fitted into a ditch to dam up the water so as to overflow a field. [U. S.] 

TAPROOM:  A room where liquors are kept on tap; a barroom. The ambassador was put one night into a miserable taproom, full of soldiers smoking. Macaulay. 

TAPROOT:  The root of a plant which penetrates the earth directly downward to a considerable depth without dividing. 

TAPSTER:  One whose business is to tap or draw ale or other liquor.  TAQUA-NUT Ta"qua-nut`, n. (Bot.)  A Central American name for the ivory nut. 

TAR:  A sailor; a seaman. [Colloq.] Swift. 

TAR:  A thick, black, viscous liquid obtained by the distillation of wood, coal, etc., and having a varied composition according to the temperature and material employed in obtaining it. Coal tar. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Mineral tar (Min.), a kind of soft native bitumen.  -- Tar board, a strong quality of millboard made from junk and old tarred rope. Knight.  -- Tar water. (a) A cold infusion of tar in water, used as a medicine. (b) The ammoniacal water of gas works.  -- Wood tar, tar obtained from wood. It is usually obtained by the distillation of the wood of the pine, spruce, or fir, and is used in varnishes, cements, and to render ropes, oakum, etc., impervious to water. 

TAR:  To smear with tar, or as with tar; as, to tar ropes; to tar cloth. To tar and feather a person. See under Feather, v. t. 

TARANIS:  A Celtic divinity, regarded as the evil principle, but confounded by the Romans with Jupiter. 

TARANTASS:  A low four-wheeled carriage used in Russia. The carriage box rests on two long, springy poles which run from the fore to the hind axletree. When snow falls, the wheels are taken off, and the body is mounted on a sledge. 

TARANTISM:  A nervous affection producing melancholy, stupor, and an uncontrollable desire to dance. It was supposed to be produced by the bite of the tarantula, and considered to be incapable of cure except by protraced dancing to appropriate music. [Written also tarentism.] 

TARANTULA:  Any one of several species of large spiders, popularly supposed to be very venomous, especially the European species (Tarantula apuliæ). The tarantulas of Texas and adjacent countries are large species of Mygale. [Written also tarentula.] Tarantula killer, a very large wasp (Pompilus formosus), which captures the Texan tarantula (Mygale Hentzii) and places it in its nest as food for its young, after paralyzing it by a sting. 

TARANTULATED:  Bitten by a tarantula; affected with tarantism. 

TARBOGAN:  See Toboggan. 

TARBOOSH:  A red cap worn by Turks and other Eastern nations, sometimes alone and sometimes swathed with linen or other stuff to make a turban. See Fez. 

TARDATION:  The act of retarding, or delaying; retardation. [Obs.] 

TARDIGRADA:  A tribe of edentates comprising the sloths. They are noted for the slowness of their movements when on the ground. See Sloth, 3.  2. (Zoöl.)  An order of minute aquatic arachnids; -- called also bear animalcules, sloth animalcules, and water bears. 

TARDIGRADE:  Of or pertaining to the Tardigrada. 

TARDIGRADE:  One of the Tardigrada. 

TARDIGRADOUS:  Moving slowly; slow-paced. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TARDILY:  In a tardy manner; slowly. 

TARDINESS:  The quality or state of being tardy. 

TARDITATION:  Tardiness. [Obs.] To instruct them to avoid all snares of tarditation, in the Lord's affairs. Herrick. 

TARDITY:  Slowness; tardiness. [R.] Sir K. Digby. 

TARDO:  Slow; -- a direction to perform a passage slowly. 

TARDO:  A sloth. 

TARDY:  To make tardy. [Obs.] Shak. 

TARE:  Tore. 

TARE:  A name of several climbing or diffuse leguminous herbs of the genus Vicia; especially, the V. sativa, sometimes grown for fodder. 

TARE:  Deficientcy in the weight or quantity of goods by reason of the weight of the cask, bag, or whatever contains the commodity, and is weighed with it; hence, the allowance or abatement of a certain weight or quantity which the seller makes to the buyer on account of the weight of such cask, bag, etc. 

TARE:  To ascertain or mark the tare of (goods). 

TARED:  Weighed; determined; reduced to equal or standard weight; as, tared filter papers, used in weighing precipitates. 

TARENTE:  A harmless lizard of the Gecko family (Platydactylus Mauritianicus) found in Southern Europe and adjacent countries, especially among old walls and ruins. 

TARENTISM:  See Tarantism. 

TARENTULA:  See Tarantula. 

TARGE:  A shield or target. [Obs. or Poetic] "A buckler on a targe." Chaucer. 

TARGET:  The sliding crosspiece, or vane, on a leveling staff.  4. (Railroad)  A conspicuous disk attached to a switch lever to show its position, or for use as a signal. 

TARGETED:  Furnished, armed, or protected, with a target. 

TARGETEER:  One who is armed with a target or shield. [Written also targetier.] 

TARGUM:  A translation or paraphrase of some portion of the Old Testament Scriptures in the Chaldee or Aramaic language or dialect. 

TARGUMIST:  The writer of a Targum; one versed in the Targums. 

TARIFF:  To make a list of duties on, as goods. 

TARIN:  The siskin. [Prov.] 

TARING:  The common tern; -- called also tarret, and tarrock. [Prov. Eng.] 

TARLATAN:  A kind of thin, transparent muslin, used for dresses. 

TARN:  A mountain lake or pool. A lofty precipice in front, A silent tarn below. Wordsworth. 

TARNISH:  To soil, or change the appearance of, especially by an alternation induced by the air, or by dust, or the like; to diminish, dull, or destroy the luster of; to sully; as, to tarnish a metal; to tarnish gilding; to tarnish the purity of color. "Tarnished lace." Fuller. Used also figuratively; as, to tarnish one's honor.  Syn.  -- To sully; stain; dim. 

TARNISH:  To lose luster; to become dull; as, gilding will tarnish in a foul air. Till thy fresh glories, which now shine so bright, Grow stale and tarnish with our daily sight. Dryden. 

TARNISH:  A thin film on the surface of a metal, usually due to a slight alteration of the original color; as, the steel tarnish in columbite. 

TARNISHER:  One who, or that which, tarnishes. 

TARO:  A name for several aroid plants (Colocasia antiquorum, var. esculenta, Colocasia macrorhiza, etc.), and their rootstocks. They have large ovate-sagittate leaves and large fleshy rootstocks, which are cooked and used for food in tropical countries. 

TAROT:  A game of cards; -- called also taroc. Hoyle. 

TARPAN:  A wild horse found in the region of the Caspian Sea. 

TARPEIAN:  Pertaining to or designating a rock or peak of the Capitoline hill, Rome, from which condemned criminals were hurled. 

TARPON:  Same as Tarpum. 

TARPUM:  A very large marine fish (Megapolis Atlanticus) of the Southern United States and the West Indies. It often becomes six or more feet in length, and has large silvery scales. The scales are a staple article of trade, and are used in fancywork. Called also tarpon, sabalo, savanilla, silverfish, and jewfish. 

TARQUINISH:  Like a Tarquin, a king of ancient Rome; proud; haughty; overbearing. 

TARRACE:  See Trass. [Obs.] 

TARRAGON:  A plant of the genus Artemisa (A. dracunculus), much used in France for flavoring vinegar. 

TARRAS:  See Trass. [Obs.] 

TARRE:  To set on, as a dog; to incite. [Obs.] Shak. 

TARRIANCE:  The act or time of tarrying; delay; lateness. [Archaic] Shak. And after two days' tarriance there, returned. Tennyson. 

TARRIER:  One who, or that which, tarries. 

TARRIER:  A kind of dig; a terrier. [Obs.] 

TARRY:  Consisting of, or covered with, tar; like tar. 

TARRY:  Stay; stop; delay. [Obs.] E. Lodge. 

TARSAL:  Of or pertaining to the tarsus (either of the foot or eye).  -- n.  A tarsal bone or cartilage; a tarsale. Tarsal tetter (Med.), an eruptive disease of the edges of the eyelids; a kind of bleareye. 

TARSAL:  Same as Tercel. [Obs.] 

TARSALE:  One of the bones or cartilages of the tarsus; esp., one of the series articulating with the metatarsals. 

TARSE:  The male falcon. 

TARSE:  tarsus. 

TARSECTOMY:  The operation of excising one or more of the bones of the tarsus. 

TARSEL:  A male hawk. See Tercel. [Obs.] 

TARSI:  pl. of Tarsus.  TARSIA; TARSIATURA Tar"si*a, Tar`si*a*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It.]  A kind of mosaic in woodwork, much employed in Italy in the fifteenth century and later, in which scrolls and arabesques, and sometimes architectural scenes, landscapes, fruits, flowers, and the like, were produced by inlaying pieces of wood of different colors and shades into panels usually of walnut wood. 

TARSIER:  See Tarsius. 

TARSIUS:  A genus of nocturnal lemurine mammals having very large eyes and ears, a long tail, and very long proximal tarsal bones; -- called also malmag, spectral lemur, podji, and tarsier.  TARSO- Tar"so-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tarsus; as, tarsometatarsus. 

TARSOMETATARSUS:  The large bone next the foot in the leg of a bird. It is formed by the union of the distal part of the tarsus with the metatarsus. 

TARSORRHAPHY:  An operation to diminish the size of the opening between eyelids when enlarged by surrounding cicatrices. 

TARSOTOMY:  The operation of cutting or removing the tarsal cartilages. 

TARSUS:  The foot of an insect or a crustacean. It usually consists of form two to five joints. 

TART:  A species of small open pie, or piece of pastry, containing jelly or conserve; a sort of fruit pie. 

TARTAN:  Woolen cloth, checkered or crossbarred with narrow bands of various colors, much worn in the Highlands of Scotland; hence, any pattern of tartan; also, other material of a similar pattern. MacCullummore's heart will be as cold as death can make it, when it does not warm to the tartan. Sir W. Scott. The sight of the tartan inflamed the populace of London with hatred. Macaulay. 

TARTAN:  A small coasting vessel, used in the Mediterranean, having one mast carrying large leteen sail, and a bowsprit with staysail or jib. 

TARTAR:  A reddish crust or sediment in wine casks, consisting essentially of crude cream of tartar, and used in marking pure cream of tartar, tartaric acid, potassium carbonate, black flux, etc., and, in dyeing, as a mordant for woolen goods; -- called also argol, wine stone, etc.  2. A correction which often incrusts the teeth, consisting of salivary mucus, animal matter, and phosphate of lime. Cream of tartar. (Chem.) See under Cream.  -- Tartar emetic (Med. Chem.), a double tartrate of potassium and basic antimony. It is a poisonous white crystalline substance having a sweetish metallic taste, and used in medicine as a sudorific and emetic. 

TARTAR:  A native or inhabitant of Tartary in Asia; a member of any one of numerous tribes, chiefly Moslem, of Turkish origin, inhabiting the Russian Europe; -- written also, more correctly but less usually, Tatar.  2. A person of a keen, irritable temper. To catch a tartar, to lay hold of, or encounter, a person who proves too strong for the assailant. [Colloq.] 

TARTAR:  Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars. 

TARTAR:  See Tartarus. Shak. 

TARTARATED:  Tartrated.  TARTAREAN; TARTAREOUS Tar*ta"re*an, Tar*ta"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. tartareus: cf. F. tartaréen.]  Of or pertaining to Tartarus; hellish. 

TARTAREOUS:  Having the surface rough and crumbling; as, many lichens are tartareous.  TARTARIAN; TARTARIC Tar*ta"ri*an, Tar*tar"ic, a.  Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars. Tartarian lamb (Bot.), Scythian lamb. See Barometz. 

TARTARIAN:  The name of some kinds of cherries, as the Black Tartarian, or the White Tartarian. 

TARTARIC:  Of or pertaining to tartar; derived from, or resembling, tartar. Tartaric acid. (a) An acid widely diffused throughout the vegetable kingdom, as in grapes, mountain-ash berries, etc., and obtained from tartar as a white crystalline substance, C2H2(OH)2.(CO2H)2, having a strong pure acid taste. It is used in medicine, in dyeing, calico printing, photography, etc., and also as a substitute for lemon juice. Called also dextro-tartaric acid. (b) By extension, any one of the series of isomeric acids (racemic acid, levotartaric acid, inactive tartaric acid) of which tartaric acid proper is the type. 

TARTARINE:  Potassium carbonate, obtained by the incineration of tartar. [Obs.] 

TARTARIZE:  To impregnate with, or subject to the action of, tartar. [R.] Tartarized antimony (Med. Chem.), tartar emetic. 

TARTARIZE:  To cause to resemble the Tartars and their civilization, as by conquest. 

TARTAROUS:  Containing tartar; consisting of tartar, or partaking of its qualities; tartareous. 

TARTAROUS:  Resembling, or characteristic of, a Tartar; ill-natured; irritable. The Tartarous moods of common men. B. Jonson. 

TARTARUM:  See 1st Tartar. 

TARTARUS:  The infernal regions, described in the Iliad as situated as far below Hades as heaven is above the earth, and by later writers as the place of punishment for the spirits of the wicked. By the later poets, also, the name is often used synonymously with Hades, or the Lower World in general. 

TARTARY:  Tartarus. [Obs.] Spenser.  TARTINI'S TONES Tar*ti"ni's tones`. Etym: [From Tartini, an Italian violinist, who discovered them in 1754.]  See the Note under Tone. 

TARTISH:  Somewhat tart. 

TARTLET:  A small tart. V. Knox. 

TARTLY:  In a tart manner; with acidity. 

TARTNESS:  The quality or state of being tart.  Syn.  -- Acrimony; sourness; keenness; poignancy; severity; asperity; acerbity; harshness. See Acrimony. 

TARTRALIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white amorphous deliquescent substance, C8H10O11; -- called also ditartaric, tartrilic, or tartrylic acid. 

TARTRAMATE:  A salt of tartramic acid. 

TARTRAMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is the primary acid amide derivative of tartaric acid. 

TARTRAMIDE:  An acid amide derivative of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance. 

TARTRATE:  A salt of tartaric acid. 

TARTRATED:  Containing, or derived from, tartar; combined with tartaric acid. 

TARTRAZINE:  An artificial dyestuff obtained as an orange-yellow powder, and regarded as a phenyl hydrazine derivative of tartaric and sulphonic acids. 

TARTRELIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anhydride, C4H4O5, of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline deliquescent substance.  TARTRO- Tar"tro-.  A combining form (also used adjectively) used in chemistry to denote the presence of tartar or of some of its compounds or derivatives. 

TARTRONATE:  A salt of tartronic acid. 

TARTRONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also hydroxy malonic acid) obtained, by reducing mesoxalic acid, as a white crystalline substance. 

TARTRONYL:  A hypothetical radical constituting the characteristic residue of tartronic acid and certain of its derivatives. 

TARTROVINIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain acid composed of tartaric acid in combination with ethyl, and now called ethyltartaric acid.  TARTUFFE; TARTUFE Tar*tuffe", Tar*tufe", n. Etym: [F. tartufe.]  A hypocritical devotee. See the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.  TARTUFFISH; TARTUFISH Tar*tuff"ish, Tar*tuf"ish, a.  Like a tartuffe; precise; hypocritical. Sterne. 

TARWEED:  A name given to several resinous-glandular composite plants of California, esp. to the species of Grindelia, Hemizonia, and Madia. 

TAS:  A heap. [Obs.] "The tas of bodies slain." Chaucer. 

TAS:  To tassel. [Obs.] "A purse of leather tassed with silk." Chaucer. 

TASCO:  A kind of clay for making melting pots. Percy Smith. 

TASIMER:  An instrument for detecting or measuring minute extension or movements of solid bodies. It consists essentially of a small rod, disk, or button of carbon, forming part of an electrical circuit, the resistance of which, being varied by the changes of pressure produced by the movements of the object to be measured, causes variations in the strength of the current, which variations are indicated by a sensitive galvanometer. It is also used for measuring minute changes of temperature. T. A. Edison. 

TASKMASTER:  One who imposes a task, or burdens another with labor; one whose duty is to assign tasks; an overseer. Ex. i. 11. All is, if I have grace to use it so, As ever in my great Taskmaster's eye. Milton.  TASK WAGE Task wage. (Polit. Econ.)  A wage paid by the day, or some fixed period, on condition that a minimum task be performed. When the workman is paid in proportion for excess over the minimum, the wage is one for piece-work. 

TASKWORK:  Work done as a task; also, work done by the job; piecework. 

TASLET:  A piece of armor formerly worn to guard the things; a tasse. 

TASMANIAN:  Of or pertaining to Tasmania, or Van Diemen's Land.  -- n. A native or inhabitant of Tasmania; specifically (Ethnol.), in the plural, the race of men that formerly inhabited Tasmania, but is now extinct. Tasmanain cider tree. (Bot.) See the Note under Eucalyptus.  -- Tasmanain devil. (Zoöl.) See under Devil.  -- Tasmanain wolf (Zoöl.), a savage carnivorous marsupial; -- called also zebra wolf. See Zebra wolf, under Wolf. 

TASSE:  A piece of armor for the thighs, forming an appendage to the ancient corselet.  Note: Usually the tasse was a plate of iron swinging from the cuirass, but the skirts of sliding splints were also called by this name. 

TASSEL:  A male hawk. See Tercel. 

TASSEL:  A kind of bur used in dressing cloth; a teasel. 

TASSEL:  A piece of board that is laid upon a wall as a sort of plate, to give a level surface to the ends of floor timbers; -- rarely used in the United States. Tassel flower (Bot.), a name of several composite plants of the genus Cineraria, especially the C. sconchifolia, and of the blossoms which they bear. 

TASSEL:  To put forth a tassel or flower; as, maize tassels. 

TASSEL:  To adorn with tassels. Chaucer. 

TASSET:  A defense for the front of the thigh, consisting of one or more iron plates hanging from the belt on the lower edge of the corselet. 

TASTABLE:  Capable of worthy of being tasted; savory; relishing. 

TASTE:  The one of the five senses by which certain properties of bodies (called their taste, savor, flavor) are ascertained by contact with the organs of taste.  Note: Taste depends mainly on the contact of soluble matter with the terminal organs (connected with branches of the glossopharyngeal and other nerves) in the papillæ on the surface of the tongue. The base of the tongue is considered most sensitive to bitter substances, the point to sweet and acid substances.  4. Intellectual relish; liking; fondness; -- formerly with of, now with for; as, he had no taste for study. I have no taste Of popular applause. Dryden.  5. The power of perceiving and relishing excellence in human performances; the faculty of discerning beauty, order, congruity, proportion, symmetry, or whatever constitutes excellence, particularly in the fine arts and belles-letters; critical judgment; discernment.  6. Manner, with respect to what is pleasing, refined, or in accordance with good usage; style; as, music composed in good taste; an epitaph in bad taste.  7. Essay; trial; experience; experiment. Shak.  8. A small portion given as a specimen; a little piece tastted of eaten; a bit. Bacon.  9. A kind of narrow and thin silk ribbon.  Syn.  -- Savor; relish; flavor; sensibility; gout.  -- Taste, Sensibility, Judgment. Some consider taste as a mere sensibility, and others as a simple exercise of judgment; but a union of both is requisite to the existence of anything which deserves the name. An original sense of the beautiful is just as necessary to æsthetic judgments, as a sense of right and wrong to the formation of any just conclusions or moral subjects. But this "sense of the beautiful" is not an arbitrary principle. It is under the guidance of reason; it grows in delicacy and correctness with the progress of the individual and of society at large; it has its laws, which are seated in the nature of man; and it is in the development of these laws that we find the true "standard of taste." What, then, is taste, but those internal powers, Active and strong, and feelingly alive To each fine impulse a discerning sense Of decent and sublime, with quick disgust From things deformed, or disarranged, or gross In species This, nor gems, nor stores of gold, Nor purple state, nor culture, can bestow, But God alone, when first his active hand Imprints the secret bias of the soul. Akenside. Taste of buds, or Taste of goblets (Anat.), the flask-shaped end organs of taste in the epithelium of the tongue. They are made up of modified epithelial cells arranged somewhat like leaves in a bud. 

TASTER:  One of a peculiar kind of zooids situated on the polyp-stem of certain Siphonophora. They somewhat resemble the feeding zooids, but are destitute of mouths. See Siphonophora. 

TASTILY:  In a tasty manner. 

TASTING:  The act of perceiving or tasting by the organs of taste; the faculty or sense by which we perceive or distinguish savors. 

TASTO:  A key or thing touched to produce a tone. Tasto solo, single touch; -- in old music, a direction denoting that the notes in the bass over or under which it is written should be performed alone, or with no other chords than unisons and octaves. 

TAT:  Gunny cloth made from the fiber of the Corchorus olitorius, or jute. [India] 

TAT:  A pony. [India] 

TATAUPA:  A South American tinamou (Crypturus tataupa). 

TATCH:  A spot or stain; also, a trick. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. 

TATH:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Ta, to take. 

TATH:  To manure (land) by pasturing cattle on it, or causing them to lie upon it. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

TATOU:  The giant armadillo (Priodontes gigas) of tropical South America. It becomes nearly five feet long including the tail. It is noted for its burrowing powers, feeds largely upon dead animals, and sometimes invades human graves. 

TATOUAY:  An armadillo (Xenurus unicinctus), native of the tropical parts of South America. It has about thirteen movable bands composed of small, nearly square, scales. The head is long; the tail is round and tapered, and nearly destitute of scales; the claws of the fore feet are very large. Called also tatouary, and broad-banded armadillo. 

TATOUHOU:  The peba. 

TATT:  To make (anything) by tatting; to work at tatting; as, tatted edging. 

TATTA:  A bamboo frame or trellis hung at a door or window of a house, over which water is suffered to trickle, in order to moisten and cool the air as it enters. [India] 

TATTER:  One who makes tatting. Caulfield & S. (Doct. of Needlework). 

TATTER:  A rag, or a part torn and hanging; -- chiefly used in the plural. Tear a passion to tatters, to very rags. Shak. 

TATTER:  To rend or tear into rags; -- used chiefly in the past participle as an adjective. Where waved the tattered ensigns of Ragfair. Pope. 

TATTERDEMALION:  A ragged fellow; a ragamuffin. L'Estrange.  TATTERSALL'S Tat"ter*sall's, n.  A famous horse market in London, established in 1766 by Richard Tattersall, also used as the headquarters of credit betting on English horse races; hence, a large horse market elsewhere. 

TATTING:  A kind of lace made from common sewing thread, with a peculiar stitch. Tatting shuttle, the shuttle on which the thread used in tatting is wound. 

TATTLE:  Idle talk or chat; trifling talk; prate. [They] told the tattle of the day. Swift. 

TATTLER:  Any one of several species of large, long-legged sandpipers belonging to the genus Totanus.  Note: The common American species are the greater tattler, or telltale (T. melanoleucus), the smaller tattler, or lesser yellowlegs (T. flavipes), the solitary tattler (T. solitarius), and the semipalmated tattler, or willet. The first two are called also telltale, telltale spine, telltale tattler, yellowlegs, yellowshanks, and yelper. 

TATTLERY:  Idle talk or chat; tittle-tattle. 

TATTLING:  Given to idle talk; apt to tell tales.  -- Tat"tling*ly, adv. 

TATTOO:  A beat of drum, or sound of a trumpet or bugle, at night, giving notice to soldiers to retreat, or to repair to their quarters in garrison, or to their tents in camp. The Devil's tattoo. See under Devil. 

TATTOO:  To color, as the flesh, by pricking in coloring matter, so as to form marks or figures which can not be washed out. 

TATTOO:  An indelible mark or figure made by puncturing the skin and introducing some pigment into the punctures; -- a mode of ornamentation practiced by various barbarous races, both in ancient and modern times, and also by some among civilized nations, especially by sailors. 

TATTY:  A mat or screen of fibers, as of the kuskus grass, hung at a door or window and kept wet to moisten and cool the air as it enters. [India] 

TATU:  Same as Tatou. 

TATUSIID:  Any armadillo of the family Tatusiidæ, of which the peba and mule armadillo are examples. Also used adjectively. 

TAU:  The common American toadfish; -- so called from a marking resembling the Greek letter tau (t). Tau cross. See Illust. 6, of Cross. 

TAUGHT:  See Taut. Totten. 

TAUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Teach. Etym: [AS. imp. tæhte, p.p. getæht.]  Note: See Teach. 

TAUNT:  Very high or tall; as, a ship with taunt masts. Totten. 

TAUNT:  To reproach with severe or insulting words; to revile; to upbraid; to jeer at; to flout. When I had at my pleasure taunted her. Shak.  Syn.  -- To deride; ridicule; mock; jeer; flout; revile. See Deride. 

TAUNT:  Upbraiding language; bitter or sarcastic reproach; insulting invective. With scoffs, and scorns, and contemelious taunts. Shak. With sacrilegious taunt and impious jest. Prior. 

TAUNTER:  One who taunts. 

TAUNTING:  from Taunt, v. Every kind of insolent and taunting reflection. Burke. 

TAUNTINGLY:  In a taunting manner. 

TAUNTRESS:  A woman who taunts.  TAUPIE; TAWPIE Tau"pie, Taw"pie, n. [Cf. Icel. topi fool, Dan. taabe, Sw. tåp.]  A foolish or thoughtless young person, esp. a slothful or slovenly woman. [Scot.]  Burns. 

TAUR:  The constellation Taurus. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TAURICORNOUS:  Having horns like those of a bull. Sir T. Browne. 

TAURID:  Any of a group of meteors appearing November 20-23; -- so called because they appear to radiate from a point in Taurus. 

TAURIDOR:  A bull Sir W. Scott. 

TAURIFORM:  Having the form of a bull. 

TAURINE:  Of or pertaining to the genus Taurus, or cattle. 

TAURINE:  A body occurring in small quantity in the juices of muscle, in the lungs, and elsewhere, but especially in the bile, where it is found as a component part of taurocholic acid, from which it can be prepared by decomposition of the acid. It crystallizes in colorless, regular six-sided prisms, and is especially characterized by containing both nitrogen and sulphur, being chemically amido- isethionic acid, C 

TAUROCHOLATE:  A salt of taurocholic acid; as, sodium taurocholate, which occurs in human bile. 

TAUROCHOLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a conjugate acid (called taurocholic acid) composed of taurine and cholic acid, present abundantly in human bile and in that of carnivora. It is exceedingly deliquescent, and hence appears generally as a thick, gummy mass, easily soluble in water and alcohol. It has a bitter taste.  TAUROCOL; TAUROCOLLA Tau"ro*col, Tau`ro*col"la, n. Etym: [NL. taurocolla, fr. Gr. taurocolle.]  Glue made from a bull's hide. 

TAUROMACHIAN:  Of or pertaining to bullfights.  -- n.  A bullfighter. 

TAUROMACHY:  Bullfighting. 

TAURUS:  A genus of ruminants comprising the common domestic cattle. 

TAURYLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found of a urine of neat cattle, and probably identical with cresol. 

TAUT:  Tight; stretched; not slack; -- said esp. of a rope that is tightly strained.  2. Sung; close; firm; secure. Taut hand (Naut.), a sailor's term for an officer who is severe in discipline. 

TAUTAUG:  Same as Tautog. 

TAUTEGORICAL:  Expressing the same thing with different words; -- opposed to allegorical. [R.] Coleridge. 

TAUTOCHRONE:  A curved line, such that a heavy body, descending along it by the action of gravity, will always arrive at the lowest point in the same time, wherever in the curve it may begin to fall; as, an inverted cycloid with its base horizontal is a tautochrone. 

TAUTOCHRONOUS:  Occupying the same time; pertaining to, or having the properties of, a tautochrone. 

TAUTOG:  An edible labroid fish (Haitula onitis, or Tautoga onitis) of the Atlantic coast of the United States. When adult it is nearly black, more or less irregularly barred, with greenish gray. Called also blackfish, oyster fish, salt-water chub, and moll. [Written also tautaug.] 

TAUTOLOGIC:  Tautological. 

TAUTOLOGICAL:  Involving tautology; having the same signification; as, tautological expression.  -- Tau`to*log"ic*al*ly, adv. Tautological echo, an echo that repeats the same sound or syllable many times. 

TAUTOLOGIST:  One who uses tautological words or phrases. 

TAUTOLOGIZE:  To repeat the same thing in different words. 

TAUTOLOGOUS:  Repeating the same thing in different words; tautological. [R.] Tooke. 

TAUTOLOGY:  A repetition of the same meaning in different words; needless repetition of an idea in different words or phrases; a representation of anything as the cause, condition, or consequence of itself, as in the following lines: -- The dawn is overcast, the morning lowers, And heavily in clouds brings on the day. Addison.  Syn.  -- Repetition.  -- Tautology, Repetition. There may be frequent repetitions (as in legal instruments) which are warranted either by necessity or convenience; but tautology is always a fault, being a sameness of expression which adds nothing to the sense or the sound. 

TAUTOMERIC:  Relating to, or characterized by, tautomerism. 

TAUTOMERISM:  The condition, quality, or relation of metameric substances, or their respective derivatives, which are more or less interchangeable, according as one form or the other is the more stable. It is a special case of metamerism; thus, the lactam and the lactim compounds exhibit tautomerism.  TAUTOOUSIAN; TAUTOOUSIOUS Tau`to*ou"si*an, Tau`to*ou"si*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.  Having the same essence; being identically of the same nature. [R.] Cudworth. 

TAUTOPHONICAL:  Pertaining to, or characterized by, tautophony; repeating the same sound. 

TAUTOPHONY:  Repetition of the same sound. 

TAUTOZONAL:  Belonging to the same zone; as, tautozonal planes. 

TAVERN:  A public house where travelers and other transient guests are accomodated with rooms and meals; an inn; a hotel; especially, in modern times, a public house licensed to sell liquor in small quantities. 

TAVERNER:  One who keeps a tavern. Chaucer. Camden. 

TAVERNING:  A feasting at taverns. [Obs.] "The misrule of our tavernings." Bp. Hall. 

TAVERNMAN:  The keeper of a tavern; also, a tippler. [Obs.] 

TAW:  Tow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TAW:  To push; to tug; to tow. [Obs.] Drayton. 

TAWDRILY:  In a tawdry manner. 

TAWDRINESS:  Quality or state of being tawdry. A clumsy person makes his ungracefulness more ungraceful by tawdriness of dress. Richardson. 

TAWDRY:  A necklace of a rural fashion, bought at St. Audrey's fair; hence, a necklace in general. [Obs.] Of which the Naiads and the blue Nereids make Them tawdries for their necks. Drayton. 

TAWER:  One who taws; a dresser of white leather. 

TAWERY:  A place where skins are tawed. 

TAWNINESS:  The quality or state of being tawny. 

TAWNY:  Of a dull yellowish brown color, like things tanned, or persons who are sunburnt; as, tawny Moor or Spaniard; the tawny lion. "A leopard's tawny and spotted hide." Longfellow. 

TAWS:  A leather lash, or other instrument of punishment, used by a schoolmaster. [Written also tawes, tawis, and tawse.] [Scot.] Never use the taws when a gloom can do the turn. Ramsay. 

TAX:  To assess, fix, or determine judicially, the amount of; as, to tax the cost of an action in court.  3. To charge; to accuse; also, to censure; -- often followed by with, rarely by of before an indirect object; as, to tax a man with pride. I tax you, you elements, with unkindness. Shak. Men's virtues I have commended as freely as I have taxed their crimes. Dryden. Fear not now that men should tax thine honor. M. Arnold. 

TAXABILITY:  The quality or state of being taxable; taxableness. 

TAXABLE:  That may be legally charged by a court against the plaintiff of defendant in a suit; as, taxable costs.  -- Tax"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Tax"a*bly, adv. 

TAXASPIDEAN:  Having the posterior tarsal scales, or scutella, rectangular and arranged in regular rows; -- said of certain birds. 

TAXATION:  The act of taxing, or assessing a bill of cost.  3. Tax; sum imposed. [R.] Daniel.  4. Charge; accusation. [Obs.] Shak.  TAX CERTIFICATE Tax certificate. (Law)  The certificate issued to the purchaser of land at a tax sale certifying to the sale and the payment of the consideration thereof, and entitling the purchaser upon certain conditions and at a certain time thereafter to a deed or instrument of conveyance (called a tax deed) of the land, to be executed by the proper officer. 

TAXEL:  The American badger. 

TAXEOPODA:  An order of extinct Mammalia found in the Tertiary formations. 

TAXGATHERER:  One who collects taxes or revenues.  -- Tax"gath`er*ing, n. 

TAXIARCH:  An Athenian military officer commanding a certain division of an army. Milford. 

TAXICORN:  One of a family of beetles (Taxicornes) whose antennæ are largest at the tip. Also used adjectively. 

TAXIDERMIC:  Of or pertaining to the art of preparing and preserving the skins of animals. 

TAXIDERMIST:  A person skilled in taxidermy. 

TAXIDERMY:  The art of preparing, preserving, and mounting the skins of animals so as to represent their natural appearance, as for cabinets. 

TAXINE:  A poisonous alkaloid of bitter taste extracted from the leaves and seeds of the European yew (Taxus baccata). Called also taxia.C35H47NO10 

TAXIS:  Manipulation applied to a hernial tumor, or to an intestinal obstruction, for the purpose of reducing it. Dunglison. 

TAXLESS:  Free from taxation. 

TAXOLOGY:  Same as Taxonomy. 

TAXONOMIC:  Pertaining to, or involving, taxonomy, or the laws and principles of classification; classificatory. 

TAXONOMIST:  One skilled in taxonomy. 

TAXONOMY:  That division of the natural sciences which treats of the classification of animals and plants; the laws or principles of classification. 

TAXOR:  Same as Taxer, n., 2. 

TAXPAYER:  One who is assessed and pays a tax.  TAYLOR-WHITE PROCESS Tay"lor-White" proc`ess. (Metal.)  A process (invented about 1899 by Frederick W. Taylor and Maunsel B. White) for giving toughness to self-hardening steels. The steel is heated almost to fusion, cooled to a temperature of from 700º to 850º C. in molten lead, further cooled in oil, reheated to between 370º and 670º C., and cooled in air. 

TAYRA:  A South American carnivore (Galera barbara) allied to the grison. The tail is long and thick. The length, including the tail, is about three feet. [Written also taira.] 

TAZEL:  The teasel. [Obs.] 

TAZZA:  An ornamental cup or vase with a large, flat, shallow bowl, resting on a pedestal and often having handles.  T CART T" cart`.  See under T. 

TCHAWYTCHA:  The quinnat salmon. [Local, U.S.] 

TCHICK:  A slight sound such as that made by pressing the tongue against the roof of the mouth and explosively sucking out the air at one side, as in urging on a horse. -- v. i.  To make a tchick.  T CONNECTION T connection. (Elec.)  The connection of two coils diagrammatically as a letter T, chiefly used as a connection for passing transformers. When the three free ends are connected to a source of three-phase current, two-phase current may be derived from the secondary circuits. The reverse arrangement may be used to transform from two-phase. -- T"-connected, a. 

TEA:  To take or drink tea. [Colloq.] 

TEABERRY:  The checkerberry. 

TEACH:  To give instruction; to follow the business, or to perform the duties, of a preceptor. And gladly would he learn, and gladly teach. Chaucer. The priests thereof teach for hire. Micah iii. 11. 

TEACHABLE:  Capable of being taught; apt to learn; also, willing to receive instruction; docile. We ought to bring our minds free, unbiased, and teachable, to learn our religion from the Word of God. I. Watts. 

TEACHABLENESS:  Willingness to be taught. 

TEACHE:  One of the series of boilers in which the cane juice is treated in making sugar; especially, the last boiler of the series. Ure. 

TEACHING:  The act or business of instructing; also, that which is taught; instruction.  Syn.  -- Education; instruction; breeding. See Education. 

TEACHLESS:  Not teachable. [R.] Shelley. 

TEACUP:  A small cup from which to drink tea. 

TEACUPFUL:  As much as a teacup can hold; enough to fill a teacup.  TEAD; TEADE Tead, Teade, n. Etym: [L. taeda, teda.]  A torch. [Obs.] "A burning teade." Spenser. 

TEAGLE:  A hoisting apparatus; an elevator; a crane; a lift. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEAGUE:  An Irishman; -- a term used in contempt. Johnson. 

TEAK:  A tree of East Indies (Tectona grandis) which furnishes an extremely strong and durable timber highly valued for shipbuilding and other purposes; also, the timber of the tree. [Written also teek.] African teak, a tree (Oldfieldia Africana) of Sierra Leone; also, its very heavy and durable wood; -- called also African oak.  -- New Zeland teak, a large tree (Vitex littoralis) of New Zeland; also, its hard, durable timber. 

TEAKETTLE:  A kettle in which water is boiled for making tea, coffee, etc. 

TEAL:  Any one of several species of small fresh-water ducks of the genus Anas and the subgenera Querquedula and Nettion. The male is handsomely colored, and has a bright green or blue speculum on the wings.  Note: The common European teal (Anas crecca) and the European blue- winged teal, or garganey (A. querquedula or A. circia), are well- known species. In America the blue-winged teal (A. discors), the green-winged teal (A. Carolinensis), and the cinnamon teal (A. cynaoptera) are common species, valued as game birds. See Garganey. Goose teal, a goslet. See Goslet.  -- Teal duck, the common European teal. 

TEAM:  A flock of wild ducks.  6. (O. Eng. Law)  A royalty or privilege granted by royal charter to a lord of a manor, of having, keeping, and judging in his court, his bondmen, neifes, and villains, and their offspring, or suit, that is, goods and chattels, and appurtenances thereto. Burrill. 

TEAM:  To engage in the occupation of driving a team of horses, cattle, or the like, as in conveying or hauling lumber, goods, etc.; to be a teamster. team up, to form one or more teams, either for a common endeavor, or to compete in a contest. 

TEAM:  To convey or haul with a team; as, to team lumber. [R.] Thoreau. 

TEAMED:  Yoked in, or as in, a team. [Obs.] Let their teamed fishes softly swim. Spenser. 

TEAMING:  Contract work. [R.] Knight. 

TEAMSTER:  One who drives a team. 

TEAMWORK:  Work done by a team, as distinguished from that done by personal labor. 

TEAPOT:  A vessel with a spout, in which tea is made, and from which it is poured into teacups. 

TEAPOY:  An ornamental stand, usually with three legs, having caddies for holding tea. 

TEAR:  A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland, and diffused between the eye and the eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion. Ordinarily the secretion passes through the lachrymal duct into the nose, but when it is increased by emotion or other causes, it overflows the lids. And yet for thee ne wept she never a tear. Chaucer.  2. Something in the form of a transparent drop of fluid matter; also, a solid, transparent, tear-shaped drop, as of some balsams or resins. Let Araby extol her happy coast, Her fragrant flowers, her trees with precious tears. Dryden.  3. That which causes or accompanies tears; a lament; a dirge. [R.] "Some melodous tear." Milton.  Note: Tear is sometimes used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, tear-distilling, tear-drop, tear-filled, tear-stained, and the like. 

TEAR:  The act of tearing, or the state of being torn; a rent; a fissure. Macaulay. Wear and tear. See under Wear, n. 

TEARER:  One who tears or rends anything; also, one who rages or raves with violence.  TEAR-FALLING Tear"-fall`ing, a.  Shedding tears; tender. [Poetic] "Tear-falling pity." Shak. 

TEARFUL:  Abounding with tears; weeping; shedding tears; as, tearful eyes.  -- Tear"ful*ly, adv.  -- Tear"ful*ness, n. 

TEARLESS:  Shedding no tears; free from tears; unfeeling.  -- Tear"less*ly, adv.  -- Tear"less*ness, n. 

TEARPIT:  A cavity or pouch beneath the lower eyelid of most deer and antelope; the lachrymal sinus; larmier. It is capable of being opened at pleasure and secretes a waxy substance.  TEAR-THUMB Tear"-thumb`, n. (Bot.)  A name given to several species of plants of the genus Polygonum, having angular stems beset with minute reflexed prickles. 

TEARY:  A small saucer in which a teacup is set. 

TEASE:  To tear or separate into minute shreds, as with needles or similar instruments.  4. To vex with importunity or impertinence; to harass, annoy, disturb, or irritate by petty requests, or by jests and raillery; to plague. Cowper. He . . . suffered them to tease him into acts directly opposed to his strongest inclinations. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- To vex; harass: annoy; disturb; irritate; plague; torment; mortify; tantalize; chagrin.  -- Tease, Vex. To tease is literally to pull or scratch, and implies a prolonged annoyance in respect to little things, which is often more irritating, and harder to bear, than severe pain. Vex meant originally to seize and bear away hither and thither, and hence, to disturb; as, to vex the ocean with storms. This sense of the term now rarely occurs; but vex is still a stronger word than tease, denoting the disturbance or anger created by minor provocations, losses, disappointments, etc. We are teased by the buzzing of a fly in our eyes; we are vexed by the carelessness or stupidity of our servants. Not by the force of carnal reason, But indefatigable teasing. Hudibras. In disappointments, where the affections have been strongly placed, and the expectations sanguine, particularly where the agency of others is concerned, sorrow may degenerate into vexation and chagrin. Cogan. Tease tenon (Joinery), a long tenon at the top of a post to receive two beams crossing each other one above the other. 

TEASE:  One who teases or plagues. [Colloq.] 

TEASEL:  A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D. fullonum) bears a large flower head covered with stiff, prickly, hooked bracts. This flower head, when dried, is used for raising a nap on woolen cloth.  Note: Small teasel is Dipsacus pilosus, wild teasel is D. sylvestris.  2. A bur of this plant.  3. Any contrivance intended as a substitute for teasels in dressing cloth. Teasel frame, a frame or set of iron bars in which teasel heads are fixed for raising the nap on woolen cloth. 

TEASEL:  To subject, as woolen cloth, to the action of teasels, or any substitute for them which has an effect to raise a nap. 

TEASELER:  One who uses teasels for raising a nap on cloth. [Written also teaseller, teasler.] 

TEASELING:  The cutting and gathering of teasels; the use of teasels. [Written also teaselling, teazling.] 

TEASER:  A jager gull. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEASLE:  See Teasel. 

TEASPOON:  A small spoon used in stirring and sipping tea, coffee, etc., and for other purposes. 

TEASPOONFUL:  As much as teaspoon will hold; enough to fill a teaspoon; -- usually reckoned at a fluid dram or one quarter of a tablespoonful. 

TEAT:  A small protuberance or nozzle resembling the teat of an animal. 

TEATED:  Having protuberances resembling the teat of an animal. 

TEATHE:  See Tath. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEATISH:  Peevish; tettish; fretful; -- said of a child. See Tettish. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  TEAZE-HOLE Teaze"-hole`, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. F. tisard fire door.] (Glass Works)  The opening in the furnaces through which fuel is introduced. 

TEAZEL:  See Teasel. 

TEAZER:  The stoker or fireman of a furnace, as in glass works. Tomlinson. 

TEAZLE:  See Teasel. 

TEBETH:  The tenth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of December with a part of January. Esther ii. 16. 

TECHILY:  In a techy manner. 

TECHINESS:  The quality or state of being techy. 

TECHNIC:  Technical. 

TECHNIC:  Technical terms or objects; things pertaining to the practice of an art or science. 

TECHNICAL:  Of or pertaining to the useful or mechanic arts, or to any science, business, or the like; specially appropriate to any art, science, or business; as, the words of an indictment must be technical. Blackstone. 

TECHNICALLY:  In a technical manner; according to the signification of terms as used in any art, business, or profession. 

TECHNICALNESS:  The quality or state of being technical; technicality. 

TECHNICALS:  Those things which pertain to the practical part of an art, science, or profession; technical terms; technics. 

TECHNICIAN:  A technicist; esp., one skilled particularly in the technical details of his work. 

TECHNICIST:  One skilled to technics or in one or more of the practical arts. 

TECHNICOLOGICAL:  Technological; technical. [R.] Dr. J. Scott. 

TECHNICOLOGY:  Technology. [R.] 

TECHNICS:  The doctrine of arts in general; such branches of learning as respect the arts. 

TECHNIPHONE:  A dumb gymnastic apparatus for training the hands of pianists and organists, as to a legato touch. 

TECHNIQUE:  Same as Technic, n. 

TECHNISM:  Technicality. 

TECHNOGRAPHY:  Description of the arts and  crafts of tribes and peoples. -- Tech`no*graph"ic, Tech`no*graph"ic*al (#), a. 

TECHNOLOGIC:  Technological. 

TECHNOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to technology. 

TECHNOLOGIST:  One skilled in technology; one who treats of arts, or of the terms of arts. 

TECHNOLOGY:  Industrial science; the science of systematic knowledge of the industrial arts, especially of the more important manufactures, as spinning, weaving, metallurgy, etc.  Note: Technology is not an independent science, having a set of doctrines of its own, but consists of applications of the principles established in the various physical sciences (chemistry, mechanics, mineralogy, etc.) to manufacturing processes. Internat. Cyc. 

TECHY:  Peevish; fretful; irritable. 

TECTIBRANCH:  One of the Tectibranchiata. Also used adjectively. 

TECTIBRANCHIA:  Same as Tectibranchiata. 

TECTIBRANCHIATA:  An order, or suborder, of gastropod Mollusca in which the gills are usually situated on one side of the back, and protected by a fold of the mantle. When there is a shell, it is usually thin and delicate and often rudimentary. The aplysias and the bubble shells are examples. 

TECTIBRANCHIATE:  Having the gills covered by the mantle; of or pertaining to the Tectibranchiata.  -- n.  A tectibranchiate mollusk. 

TECTLY:  Covertly; privately; secretly. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

TECTOLOGY:  A division of morphology created by Haeckel; the science of organic individuality constituting the purely structural portion of morphology, in which the organism is regarded as composed of organic individuals of different orders, each organ being considered an individual. See Promorphology, and Morphon. 

TECTONIC:  Of or pertaining to building or construction; architectural. 

TECTONICS:  The science, or the art, by which implements, vessels, dwellings, or other edifices, are constructed, both agreeably to the end for which they are designed, and in conformity with artistic sentiments and ideas. 

TECTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to covering; -- applied to a membrane immediately over the organ of Corti in the internal ear. 

TECTRICES:  The wing coverts of a bird. See Covert, and Illust. of Bird. 

TECUM:  See Tucum. 

TED:  To spread, or turn from the swath, and scatter for drying, as new-mowed grass; -- chiefly used in the past participle. The smell of grain or tedded grass. Milton. The tedded hay and corn sheaved in one field. Coleridge. 

TEDDER:  A machine for stirring and spreading hay, to expedite its drying. 

TEDDER:  Same as Tether. 

TEDDER:  Same as Tether. 

TEDESCO:  German; -- used chiefly of art, literature, etc.  TE DEUM Te` De"um. Etym: [L., from te (accus. of tu thou) + Deum, accus. of Deus God. See Thou, and Deity.]  1. An ancient and celebrated Christian hymn, of uncertain authorship, but often ascribed to St. Ambrose; -- so called from the first words "Te Deum laudamus." It forms part of the daily matins of the Roman Catholic breviary, and is sung on all occasions of thanksgiving. In its English form, commencing with words, "We praise thee, O God," it forms a part of the regular morning service of the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal Church in America.  2. A religious service in which the singing of the hymn forms a principal part. 

TEDGE:  The gate of a mold, through which the melted metal is poured; runner, geat. 

TEDIOSITY:  Tediousness. [Obs.] 

TEDIOUS:  Involving tedium; tiresome from continuance, prolixity, slowness, or the like; wearisome.  -- Te"di*ous*ly, adv.  -- Te"di*ous*ness, n. I see a man's life is a tedious one. Shak. I would not be tedious to the court. Bunyan.  Syn.  -- Wearisome; fatiguing. See Irksome. 

TEDIUM:  Irksomeness; wearisomeness; tediousness. [Written also tædium.] Cowper. To relieve the tedium, he kept plying them with all manner of bams. Prof. Wilson. The tedium of his office reminded him more strongly of the willing scholar, and his thoughts were rambling. Dickens. 

TEE:  A short piece of pipe having a lateral outlet, used to connect a line of pipe with a pipe at a right angle with the line; -- so called because it resembles the letter T in shape.  TEEING GROUND Teeing ground. (Golf)  The space from within which the ball must be struck in beginning the play for each hole.  TEE IRON Tee" i`ron.  See T iron, under T. 

TEEK:  See Teak. [Obs.] 

TEEL:  Sesame. [Sometimes written til.] Teel oil, sesame oil. 

TEELSEED:  The seed of sesame. 

TEEM:  To pour, as steel, from a melting pot; to fill, as a mold, with molten metal. 

TEEM:  To think fit. [Obs. or R.] G. Gifford. 

TEEM:  To produce; to bring forth. [R.] That [grief] of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker; Each minute teems a new one. Shak. 

TEEMER:  One who teems, or brings forth. 

TEEMING:  Prolific; productive. Teeming buds and cheerful appear. Dryden. 

TEEMLESS:  Not fruitful or prolific; barren; as, a teemless earth. [Poetic] Dryden. 

TEEN:  Grief; sorrow; affiction; pain. [Archaic] Chaucer. Spenser. With public toil and private teen Thou sank'st alone. M. Arnold. 

TEEN:  To excite; to provoke; to vex; to affict; to injure. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

TEEN:  To hedge or fence in; to inclose. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

TEENAGE:  The longer wood for making or mending fences. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

TEEND:  To kindle; to burn. [Obs.] Herrick. 

TEENFUL:  Full of teen; harmful; grievous; grieving; afflicted. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

TEENS:  The years of one's age having the termination -teen, beginning with thirteen and ending with nineteen; as, a girl in her teens. 

TEENY:  Very small; tiny. [Colloq.] 

TEENY:  Fretful; peevish; pettish; cross. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEEONG:  The mino bird. 

TEEST:  A tinsmith's stake, or small anvil. 

TEETAN:  A pipit. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEETEE:  Any one of several species of small, soft-furred South American monkeys belonging to Callithrix, Chrysothrix, and allied genera; as, the collared teetee (Callithrix torquatus), and the squirrel teetee (Chrysothrix sciurea). Called also pinche, titi, and saimiri. See Squirrel monkey, under Squirrel.  2. (Zoöl.)  A diving petrel of Australia (Halodroma wrinatrix). 

TEETER:  To move up and down on the ends of a balanced plank, or the like, as children do for sport; to seesaw; to titter; to titter- totter. [U. S.] [The bobolink] alit upon the flower, and teetered up and down. H. W. Beecher.  TEETER-TAIL Tee"ter-tail`, n. (Zoöl.)  The spotted sandpiper. See the Note under Sandpiper. 

TEETH:  pl. of Tooth. 

TEETH:  To breed, or grow, teeth. 

TEETHING:  The process of the first growth of teeth, or the phenomena attending their issue through the gums; dentition. 

TEETOTAL:  Entire; total. [Colloq.] 

TEETOTALER:  One pledged to entire abstinence from all intoxicating drinks. 

TEETOTALISM:  The principle or practice of entire abstinence, esp. from intoxicating drinks. 

TEETOTALLY:  Entirely; totally. [Colloq.] 

TEETOTUM:  A child's toy, somewhat resembling a top, and twirled by the fingers. The staggerings of the gentleman . . . were like those of a teetotum nearly spent. Dickens.  TEE-TO-TUM Tee-to"-tum, n. [Cf. Teetotaler.]  A workingmen's resort conducted under religious influences as a counteractant to the drinking saloon. [Colloq. or Cant] 

TEETUCK:  The rock pipit. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEEUCK:  The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEEWIT:  The pewit. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEG:  A sheep in its second year; also, a doe in its second year. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

TEGMEN:  The inner layer of the coating of a seed, usually thin and delicate; the endopleura.  3. (Zoöl.)  One of the elytra of an insect, especially of certain Orthoptera.  4. pl. (Zoöl.)  Same as Tectrices. 

TEGMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to a tegument or tegmentum; as, the tegmental layer of the epiblast; the tegmental cells of the taste buds. 

TEGMENTUM:  A covering; -- applied especially to the bundles of longitudinal fibers in the upper part of the crura of the cerebrum. 

TEGUEXIN:  A large South American lizard (Tejus teguexin). It becomes three or four feet long, and is blackish above, marked with yellowish spots of various sizes. It feeds upon fruits, insects, reptiles, young birds, and birds' eggs. The closely allied species Tejus rufescens is called red teguexin. 

TEGULA:  A small appendage situated above the base of the wings of Hymenoptera and attached to the mesonotum. 

TEGULAR:  Of or pertaining to a tile; resembling a tile, or arranged like tiles; consisting of tiles; as, a tegular pavement.  -- Teg"u*lar*ly, adv. 

TEGULATED:  Composed of small plates, as of horn or metal, overlapping like tiles; -- said of a kind of ancient armor. Fairholt. 

TEGUMENTARY:  Of or pertaining to a tegument or teguments; consisting of teguments; serving as a tegument or covering.  TE-HEE Te-hee", n. & interj.  A tittering laugh; a titter. "'Te-hee,' quoth she." Chaucer.  TE-HEE Te-hee", v. i.  To titter; to laugh derisively. She cried, "Come, come; you must not look grave upon me." Upon this, I te-heed. Madame D'Arblay. 

TEIL:  The lime tree, or linden; -- called also teil tree. 

TEIND:  A tithe. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

TEINE:  See Teyne. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TEINLAND:  Land granted by the crown to a thane or lord. Burrill. 

TEINOSCOPE:  An instrument formed by combining prisms so as to correct the chromatic aberration of the light while linear dimensions of objects seen through the prisms are increased or diminished; -- called also prism telescope. Sir D. Brewster. 

TEINT:  Tint; color; tinge, See Tint. [Obs.] Time shall . . . embrown the teint. Dryden. 

TEINTURE:  Color; tinge; tincture. [Obs.] Holland. 

TEK:  A Siberian ibex. 

TELAMONES:  Same as Atlantes. 

TELANGIECTASIS:  Dilatation of the capillary vessels. 

TELANGIECTASY:  Telangiectasis. 

TELARLY:  In a weblike manner. [Obs.] "Telarly interwoven." Sir T. Browne. 

TELARY:  Of or pertaining to a web; hence, spinning webs; retiary. "Pictures of telary spiders." Sir T. Browne. 

TELAUTOGRAM:  A message transmitted and recorded by a teleautograph. 

TELAUTOGRAPH:  A facsimile telegraph for reproducing writing, pictures, maps, etc. In the transmitter the motions of the pencil are communicated by levers to two rotary shafts, by which variations in current are produced in two separate circuits. In the receiver these variations are utilized by electromagnetic devices and levers to move a pen as the pencil moves. --Tel`au*tog"ra*phist (#), n. 

TELECHIROGRAPH:  An instrument for  telegraphically transmitting and receiving handwritten messages, as photographically by a beam of light from a mirror. 

TELEDU:  An East Indian carnivore (Mydaus meliceps) allied to the badger, and noted for the very offensive odor that it emits, somewhat resembling that of a skunk. It is a native of the high mountains of Java and Sumatra, and has long, silky fur. Called also stinking badger, and stinkard. 

TELEGA:  A rude four-wheeled, springless wagon, used among the Russians. 

TELEGONY:  The supposed influence of a father upon offspring subsequent to his own, begotten of the same mother by another father. -- Te*leg"o*nous (#), a. 

TELEGRAM:  A message sent by telegraph; a telegraphic dispatch.  Note: "A friend desires us to give notice that he will ask leave, at some convenient time, to introduce a new word into the vocabulary. It is telegram, instead of telegraphic dispatch, or telegraphic communication." Albany [N. Y.] Evening Journal (April 6, 1852). 

TELEGRAMMIC:  Pertaining to, or resembling, a telegram; laconic; concise; brief. [R.] 

TELEGRAPH:  An apparatus, or a process, for communicating intelligence rapidly between distant points, especially by means of preconcerted visible or audible signals representing words or ideas, or by means of words and signs, transmitted by electrical action.  Note: The instruments used are classed as indicator, type-printing, symbol-printing, or chemical-printing telegraphs, according as the intelligence is given by the movements of a pointer or indicator, as in Cooke & Wheatstone's (the form commonly used in England), or by impressing, on a fillet of paper, letters from types, as in House's and Hughe's, or dots and marks from a sharp point moved by a magnet, as in Morse's, or symbols produced by electro-chemical action, as in Bain's. In the offices in the United States the recording instrument is now little used, the receiving operator reading by ear the combinations of long and short intervals of sound produced by the armature of an electro-magnet as it is put in motion by the opening and breaking of the circuit, which motion, in registering instruments, traces upon a ribbon of paper the lines and dots used to represent the letters of the alphabet. See Illustration in Appendix. Acoustic telegraph. See under Acoustic.  -- Dial telegraph, a telegraph in which letters of the alphabet and numbers or other symbols are placed upon the border of a circular dial plate at each station, the apparatus being so arranged that the needle or index of the dial at the receiving station accurately copies the movements of that at the sending station.  -- Electric telegraph, or Electro-magnetic telegraph, a telegraph in which an operator at one station causes words or signs to be made at another by means of a current of electricity, generated by a battery and transmitted over an intervening wire.  -- Facsimile telegraph. See under Facsimile.  -- Indicator telegraph. See under Indicator.  -- Pan-telegraph, an electric telegraph by means of which a drawing or writing, as an autographic message, may be exactly reproduced at a distant station.  -- Printing telegraph, an electric telegraph which automatically prints the message as it is received at a distant station, in letters, not signs.  -- Signal telegraph, a telegraph in which preconcerted signals, made by a machine, or otherwise, at one station, are seen or heard and interpreted at another; a semaphore.  -- Submarine telegraph cable, a telegraph cable laid under water to connect stations separated by a body of water.  -- Telegraph cable, a telegraphic cable consisting of several conducting wires, inclosed by an insulating and protecting material, so as to bring the wires into compact compass for use on poles, or to form a strong cable impervious to water, to be laid under ground, as in a town or city, or under water, as in the ocean.  -- Telegraph plant (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Desmodium gyrans) native of the East Indies. The leaflets move up and down like the signals of a semaphore. 

TELEGRAPH:  To convey or announce by telegraph. 

TELEGRAPHER:  One who sends telegraphic messages; a telegraphic operator; a telegraphist. 

TELEGRAPHIC:  Of or pertaining to the telegraph; made or communicated by a telegraph; as, telegraphic signals; telegraphic art; telegraphic intelligence. 

TELEGRAPHICAL:  Telegraphic.  -- Tel`e*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

TELEGRAPHIST:  One skilled in telegraphy; a telegrapher. 

TELEGRAPHONE:  An instrument for recording and reproducing sound by local magnetization of a steel wire, disk, or ribbon, moved against the pole of a magnet connected electrically with a telephone receiver, or the like. 

TELEGRAPHOSCOPE:  An instrument for telegraphically transmitting a picture and reproducing its image as a positive or negative. The transmitter includes a camera obscura and a row of minute selenium cells. The receiver includes an oscillograph, ralay, equilibrator, and an induction coil the sparks from which perforate a paper with tiny holes that form the image.  TELEGRAPH PLANT Telegraph plant.  An East Indian tick trefoil (Meibomia gyrans), whose lateral leaflets jerk up and down like the arms of a semaphore, and also rotate on their axes. 

TELEGRAPHY:  The science or art of constructing, or of communicating by means of, telegraphs; as, submarine telegraphy. 

TELEHYDROBAROMETER:  An instrument for indicating the level of water in a distant tank or reservior.  TELE-ICONOGRAPH Tel`e-i*con"o*graph, n. [Gr. th e far + iconograph.]  1. An instrument essentially the same as the telemetrograph.  2.  A form of facsimile telegraph.  TEL-EL-AMARNA Tel`-el-A*mar"na, n. [Ar., hill of Amarna.]  A station on the Nile, midway between Thebes and Memphis, forming the site of the capital of Amenophis IV., whose archive chamber was discovered there in 1887. A collection of tablets (called the Tel-el-Amarna, or the Amarna, tablets) was found here, forming the Asiatic correspondence (Tel-el-Amarna letters) of Amenophis IV. and his father, Amenophis III., written in cuneiform characters. It is an important source of our knowledge of Asia from about 1400 to 1370 b. c.. 

TELELECTRIC:  Of or pertaining to transmission, as of music, to a distance by electricity. 

TELELECTROSCOPE:  Any apparatus for making distant objects visible by the aid of electric transmission. 

TELEMECHANIC:  Designating, or pert. to, any device for operating mechanisms at a distance. --Tel`e*mech"a*nism (#), n. 

TELEMETEOROGRAPH:  Any apparatus recording meteorological phenomena at a distance from the measuring apparatus, as by electricity or by compressed air; esp., an apparatus recording conditions at many distant stations at a central office. -- Tel`e*me`te*or*o*graph"ic (#), a. 

TELEMETER:  An instrument used for measuring the distance of an object from an observer; as, a telescope with a micrometer for measuring the apparent diameter of an object whose real dimensions are known. 

TELEMETROGRAPH:  A combination of the camera lucida and telescope for drawing and measuring distant objects. -- Tel`e*me*trog"ra*phy (#), n. -- Tel`e*met`ro*graph"ic (#), a. 

TELEMOTOR:  A hydraulic device by which the movement of the wheel on the bridge operates the steering gear at the stern. 

TELENERGY:  Display of force or energy at a distance, or without contact; - - applied to mediumistic phenomena. -- Tel`en*er"gic (#), a. 

TELENGISCOPE:  An instrument of such focal length that it may be used as an observing telescope for objects close at hand or as a long-focused microscope. 

TELEOCEPHIAL:  An extensive order of bony fishes including most of the common market species, as bass, salmon, cod, perch, etc. 

TELEOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to teleology, or the doctrine of design.  -- Te`le*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

TELEOLOGIST:  One versed in teleology. 

TELEOLOGY:  The doctrine of the final causes of things; specif. (Biol.),  the doctrine of design, which assumes that the phenomena of organic life, particularly those of evolution, are explicable only by purposive causes, and that they in no way admit of a mechanical explanation or one based entirely on biological science; the doctrine of adaptation to purpose. 

TELEOPHORE:  Same as Gonotheca. 

TELEORGANIC:  Vital; as, teleorganic functions. 

TELEOSAUR:  Any one of several species of fossil suarians belonging to Teleosaurus and allied genera. These reptiles are related to the crocodiles, but have biconcave vertebræ. 

TELEOSAURUS:  A genus of extinct crocodilian reptiles of the Jurassic period, having a long and slender snout. 

TELEOST:  One of the Teleosti. Also used adjectively. 

TELEOSTEAN:  Of or pertaining to the teleosts.  -- n.  A teleostean fish. 

TELEOSTEI:  A subclass of fishes including all the ordinary bony fishes as distinguished from the ganoids. 

TELEOSTOMI:  An extensive division of fishes including the ordinary fishes (Teleostei) and the ganoids. 

TELEOZOIC:  Having tissued composed of cells.  TELEOZOON; TELEOZOOEN Te*le*o*zo"ön, n. (Zoöl.)  A metazoan. 

TELEPATHY:  The sympathetic affection of one mind by the thoughts, feelings, or emotions of another at a distance, without communication through the ordinary channels of sensation.  -- Tel`e*path"ic, a.  -- Te*lep"a*thist, n. 

TELEPHEME:  A message by a telephone. [Recent] 

TELEPHONE:  An instrument for reproducing sounds, especially articulate speech, at a distance.  Note: The ordinary telephone consists essentially of a device by which currents of electricity, produced by sounds through the agency of certain mechanical devices and exactly corresponding in duration and intensity to the vibrations of the air which attend them, are transmitted to a distant station, and there, acting on suitable mechanism, reproduce similar sounds by repeating the vibrations. The necessary variations in the electrical currents are usually produced by means of a microphone attached to a thin diaphragm upon which the voice acts, and are intensified by means of an induction coil. In the magnetic telephone, or magneto-telephone, the diaphragm is of soft iron placed close to the pole of a magnet upon which is wound a coil of fine wire, and its vibrations produce corresponding vibrable currents in the wire by induction. The mechanical, or string, telephone is a device in which the voice or sound causes vibrations in a thin diaphragm, which are directly transmitted along a wire or string connecting it to a similar diaphragm at the remote station, thus reproducing the sound. It does not employ electricity. 

TELEPHONE:  To convey or announce by telephone.  TELEPHONE EXCHANGE Tel`e*phone ex*change".  A central office in which the wires of telephones may be connected to permit conversation. 

TELEPHONICALLY:  By telephonic means or processes; by the use of the telephone. 

TELEPHONY:  The art or process of reproducing sounds at a distance, as with the telephone. 

TELEPHOTE:  A telelectric apparatus for producing images of visible objects at a distance. 

TELEPHOTO:  Telephotographic; specif., designating a lens consisting of a combination of lenses specially designed to give a large image of a distant object in a camera of relatively short focal length. 

TELEPHOTOGRAPH:  A photograph, image, or impression, reproduced by or taken with a telephotographic apparatus. 

TELEPHOTOGRAPHIC:  Designating, or pertaining to, the process of telephotography. 

TELEPOLARISCOPE:  A polariscope arranged to be attached to a telescope. Lockyer. 

TELERYTHIN:  A red crystalline compound related to, or produced from, erythrin. So called because regarded as the end of the series of erythrin compounds. 

TELESCOPE:  An optical instrument used in viewing distant objects, as the heavenly bodies.  Note: A telescope assists the eye chiefly in two ways; first, by enlarging the visual angle under which a distant object is seen, and thus magnifying that object; and, secondly, by collecting, and conveying to the eye, a larger beam of light than would enter the naked organ, thus rendering objects distinct and visible which would otherwise be indistinct and or invisible. Its essential parts are the object glass, or concave mirror, which collects the beam of light, and forms an image of the object, and the eyeglass, which is a microscope, by which the image is magnified. Achromatic telescope. See under Achromatic.  -- Aplanatic telescope, a telescope having an aplanatic eyepiece.  -- Astronomical telescope, a telescope which has a simple eyepiece so constructed or used as not to reverse the image formed by the object glass, and consequently exhibits objects inverted, which is not a hindrance in astronomical observations.  -- Cassegrainian telescope, a reflecting telescope invented by Cassegrain, which differs from the Gregorian only in having the secondary speculum convex instead of concave, and placed nearer the large speculum. The Cassegrainian represents objects inverted; the Gregorian, in their natural position. The Melbourne telescope (see Illust. under Reflecting telescope, below) is a Cassegrainian telescope.  -- Dialytic telescope. See under Dialytic. Equatorial telescope. See the Note under Equatorial.  -- Galilean telescope, a refracting telescope in which the eyeglass is a concave instead of a convex lens, as in the common opera glass. This was the construction originally adopted by Galileo, the inventor of the instrument. It exhibits the objects erect, that is, in their natural positions.  -- Gregorian telescope, a form of reflecting telescope. See under Gregorian.  -- Herschelian telescope, a reflecting telescope of the form invented by Sir William Herschel, in which only one speculum is employed, by means of which an image of the object is formed near one side of the open end of the tube, and to this the eyeglass is applied directly.  -- Newtonian telescope, a form of reflecting telescope. See under Newtonian.  -- Photographic telescope, a telescope specially constructed to make photographs of the heavenly bodies.  -- Prism telescope. See Teinoscope.  -- Reflecting telescope, a telescope in which the image is formed by a speculum or mirror (or usually by two speculums, a large one at the lower end of the telescope, and the smaller one near the open end) instead of an object glass. See Gregorian, Cassegrainian, Herschelian, and Newtonian, telescopes, above.  -- Refracting telescope, a telescope in which the image is formed by refraction through an object glass.  -- Telescope carp (Zoöl.), the telescope fish.  -- Telescope fish (Zoöl.), a monstrous variety of the goldfish having very protuberant eyes.  -- Telescope fly (Zoöl.), any two-winged fly of the genus Diopsis, native of Africa and Asia. The telescope flies are remarkable for having the eyes raised on very long stalks.  -- Telescope shell (Zoöl.), an elongated gastropod (Cerithium telescopium) having numerous flattened whorls.  -- Telescope sight (Firearms), a slender telescope attached to the barrel, having cross wires in the eyepiece and used as a sight.  -- Terrestrial telescope, a telescope whose eyepiece has one or two lenses more than the astronomical, for the purpose of inverting the image, and exhibiting objects erect. 

TELESCOPE:  To slide or pass one within another, after the manner of the sections of a small telescope or spyglass; to come into collision, as railway cars, in such a manner that one runs into another. [Recent] 

TELESCOPE:  To cause to come into collision, so as to telescope. [Recent]  TELESCOPE BAG Telescope bag.  An adjustable traveling bag consisting of two cases, the larger slipping over the other.  TELESCOPIC; TELESCOPICAL Tel`e*scop"ic, Tel`e*scop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. télescopique.]  1. Of or pertaining to a telescope; performed by a telescope.  2. Seen or discoverable only by a telescope; as, telescopic stars.  3. Able to discern objects at a distance; farseeing; far-reaching; as, a telescopic eye; telescopic vision.  4. Having the power of extension by joints sliding one within another, like the tube of a small telescope or a spyglass; especially (Mach.), constructed of concentric tubes, either stationary, as in the telescopic boiler, or movable, as in the telescopic chimney of a war vessel, which may be put out of sight by being lowered endwise. 

TELESCOPICALLY:  In a telescopical manner; by or with the telescope.  TELESCOPIC SIGHT Tel`e*scop"ic sight`.  A sight consisting of a small telescope, as on a compass or rifle. 

TELESCOPIST:  One who uses a telescope. R. A. Proctor. 

TELESCOPY:  The art or practice of using or making telescopes. 

TELESEISM:  A seismic movement or shock far from the  recording instrument. -- Tel`e*seis"mic (#), a. 

TELESEME:  A system of apparatus for electric signals providing for automatic transmission of a definite number of different signals or calls, as in connection with hotel annunciators. 

TELESM:  A kind of amulet or magical charm. [Obs.] J. Gregory.  TELESMATIC; TELESMATICAL Tel`es*mat"ic, Tel`es*mat"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to telesms; magical. J. Gregory. 

TELESPECTROSCOPE:  A spectroscope arranged to be attached to a telescope for observation of distant objects, as the sun or stars. Lockyer. 

TELESTEREOGRAPH:  An instrument for telegraphically reproducing a photograph. -- Tel`e*ste`re*og"ra*phy (#), n. 

TELESTEREOSCOPE:  A stereoscope adapted to view distant natural objects or landscapes; a telescopic stereoscope. 

TELESTIC:  Tending or relating to a purpose or an end. [R.] Cudworth. 

TELESTICH:  A poem in which the final letters of the lines, taken consequently, make a name. Cf. Acrostic. 

TELETHERMOMETER:  An apparatus for determining the temperature of a distant point, as by a thermoelectric circuit or otherwise. 

TELEUTOSPORE:  The thick-celled winter or resting spore of the rusts (order Uredinales), produced in late summer. See Illust. of Uredospore. 

TELFORD:  Designating, or pert. to, a road pavement having a surface of small stone rolled hard and smooth, distinguished from macadam road by its firm foundation of large stones with fragments of stone wedged tightly, in the interstices; as, telford pavement, road, etc. 

TELFORDIZE:  To furnish (a road) with a telford pavement. 

TELHARMONIC:  Of or pertaining to telharmonium.  TELHARMONIUM; TELHARMONY Tel`har*mo"ni*um, n. [Gr. th e far + harmolium.]  An instrument for producing music (Tel*har"mo*ny []), at a distant point or points by means of alternating currents of electricity controlled by an operator who plays on a keyboard. The music is produced by a receiving instrument similar or analogous to the telephone, but not held to the ear. The pitch corresponds with frequency of alternation of current. 

TELIC:  Denoting the final end or purpose, as distinguished from ecbatic. See Ecbatic. Gibbs. 

TELL:  That which is told; tale; account. [R.] I am at the end of my tell. Walpole. 

TELL:  A hill or mound. W. M. Thomson. 

TELLABLE:  Capable of being told. 

TELLEN:  Any species of Tellina. 

TELLERSHIP:  The office or employment of a teller. 

TELLINA:  A genus of marine bivalve mollusks having thin, delicate, and often handsomely colored shells. 

TELLING:  Operating with great effect; effective; as, a telling speech.  -- Tell"ing*ly, adv. 

TELLTALE:  Telling tales; babbling. "The telltale heart." Poe. 

TELLTALE:  A movable piece of ivory, lead, or other material, connected with the bellows of an organ, that gives notice, by its position, when the wind is exhausted.  3. (Naut.) (a) A mechanical attachment to the steering wheel, which, in the absence of a tiller, shows the position of the helm. (b) A compass in the cabin of a vessel, usually placed where the captain can see it at all hours, and thus inform himself of the vessel's course.  4. (Mach.)  A machine or contrivance for indicating or recording something, particularly for keeping a check upon employees, as factory hands, watchmen, drivers, check takers, and the like, by revealing to their employers what they have done or omitted.  5. (Zoöl.)  The tattler. See Tattler. 

TELLURAL:  Of or pertaining to the earth. [R.] 

TELLURATE:  A salt of telluric acid. 

TELLURET:  A telluride. [Obsoles.] 

TELLURETED:  Combined or impregnated with tellurium; tellurized. [Written also telluretted.] [Obsoles.] Tellureted hydrogen (Chem.), hydrogen telluride, H2Te, a gaseous substance analogous to hydrogen sulphide; -- called also tellurhydric acid. 

TELLURHYDRIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen telluride, which is regarded as an acid, especially when in solution. 

TELLURIAN:  Of or pertaining to the earth. De Quincey. 

TELLURIC:  Of or pertaining to tellurium; derived from, or resembling, tellurium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with tellurous compounds; as, telluric acid, which is analogous to sulphuric acid. Telluric bismuth (Min.), tetradymite.  -- Telluric silver (Min.), hessite. 

TELLURIDE:  A compound of tellurium with a more positive element or radical; -- formerly called telluret. 

TELLURISM:  An hypothesis of animal magnetism propounded by Dr. Keiser, in Germany, in which the phenomena are ascribed to the agency of a telluric spirit or influence. [R.] S. Thompson. 

TELLURITE:  A salt of tellurous acid.  2. (Min.)  Oxide of tellurium. It occurs sparingly in tufts of white or yellowish crystals. 

TELLURIUM:  A rare nonmetallic element, analogous to sulphur and selenium, occasionally found native as a substance of a silver-white metallic luster, but usually combined with metals, as with gold and silver in the mineral sylvanite, with mercury in Coloradoite, etc. Symbol Te. Atomic weight 125.2. Graphic tellurium. (Min.) See Sylvanite.  -- Tellurium glance (Min.), nagyagite; -- called also black tellurium. 

TELLURIZE:  To impregnate with, or to subject to the action of, tellurium; -- chiefly used adjectively in the past participle; as, tellurized ores. 

TELLUROUS:  Of or pertaining to tellurium; derived from, or containing, tellurium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with telluric compounds; as, tellurous acid, which is analogous to sulphurous acid. 

TELODYNAMIC:  Relating to a system for transmitting power to a distance by means of swiftly moving ropes or cables driving grooved pulleys of large diameter. 

TELOOGOO:  See Telugu. D. O. Allen. 

TELOTROCHA:  An annelid larva having telotrochal bands of cilia.  TELOTROCHAL; TELOTROCHOUS Te*lot"ro*chal, Te*lot"ro*chous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)  Having both a preoral and a posterior band of cilla; -- applied to the larvæ of certain annelids. 

TELOTYPE:  An electric telegraph which prints the messages in letters and not in signs. 

TELPHER:  A contrivance for the conveyance of vehicles or loads by means of electricity. Fleeming Jenkin. Telpher line, or Telpher road, an electric line or road over which vehicles for carrying loads are moved by electric engines actuated by a current conveyed by the line. 

TELPHERAGE:  The conveyance of vehicles or loads by means of electricity. Fleeming Jenkin. 

TELSON:  The terminal joint or movable piece at the end of the abdomen of Crustacea and other articulates. See Thoracostraca. 

TELUGU:  Of or pertaining to the Telugu language, or the Telugus. 

TEMBLOR:  An earthquake. [Western U. S.] 

TEMERARIOUS:  Unreasonably adventurous; despising danger; rash; headstrong; audacious; reckless; heedless.  -- Tem`er*a"ri*ous*ly, adv. I spake against temerarious judgment. Latimer. 

TEMERATION:  Temerity. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

TEMERITY:  Unreasonable contempt of danger; extreme venturesomeness; rashness; as, the temerity of a commander in war.  Syn.  -- Rashness; precipitancy; heedlessness; venturesomeness.  -- Temerity, Rashness. These words are closely allied in sense, but have a slight difference in their use and application. Temerity is Latin, and rashness is Anglo-Saxon. As in many such cases, the Latin term is more select and dignified; the Anglo-Saxon more familiar and energetic. We show temerity in hasty decisions, and the conduct to which they lead. We show rashness in particular actions, as dictated by sudden impulse. It is an exhibition of temerity to approach the verge of a precipice; it is an act of rashness to jump into a river without being able to swim. Temerity, then, is an unreasonable contempt of danger; rashness is a rushing into danger from thoughtlessness or excited feeling. It is notorious temerity to pass sentence upon grounds uncapable of evidence. Barrow. Her rush hand in evil hour Forth reaching to the fruit, she plucked, she eat. Milton. 

TEMEROUS:  Temerarious. [Obs.] 

TEMPEAN:  Of or pertaining to Temple, a valley in Thessaly, celebrated by Greek poets on account of its beautiful scenery; resembling Temple; hence, beautiful; delightful; charming. 

TEMPER:  To bring to a proper degree of hardness; as, to temper iron or steel. The tempered metals clash, and yield a silver sound. Dryden.  4. To govern; to manage. [A Latinism & Obs.] With which the damned ghosts he governeth, And furies rules, and Tartare tempereth. Spenser.  5. To moisten to a proper consistency and stir thoroughly, as clay for making brick, loam for molding, etc.  6. (Mus.)  To adjust, as the mathematical scale to the actual scale, or to that in actual use.  Syn.  -- To soften; mollify; assuage; soothe; calm. 

TEMPER:  Milk of lime, or other substance, employed in the process formerly used to clarify sugar. Temper screw, in deep well boring, an adjusting screw connecting the working beam with the rope carrying the tools, for lowering the tools as the drilling progresses.  Syn.  -- Disposition; temperament; frame; humor; mood. See Disposition. 

TEMPERA:  A mode or process of painting; distemper.  Note: The term is applied especially to early Italian painting, common vehicles of which were yolk of egg, yolk and white of egg mixed together, the white juice of the fig tree, and the like. 

TEMPERABLE:  Capable of being tempered. The fusible, hard, and temperable texture of metals. Emerson. 

TEMPERAMENT:  A system of compromises in the tuning of organs, pianofortes, and the like, whereby the tones generated with the vibrations of a ground tone are mutually modified and in part canceled, until their number reduced to the actual practicable scale of twelve tones to the octave. This scale, although in so far artificial, is yet closely suggestive of its origin in nature, and this system of tuning, although not mathematically true, yet satisfies the ear, while it has the convenience that the same twelve fixed tones answer for every key or scale, C# becoming identical with D, and so on.  6. (Physiol.)  The peculiar physical and mental character of an individual, in olden times erroneously supposed to be due to individual variation in the relations and proportions of the constituent parts of the body, especially of the fluids, as the bile, blood, lymph, etc. Hence the phrases, bilious or choleric temperament, sanguine temperament, etc., implying a predominance of one of these fluids and a corresponding influence on the temperament. Equal temperament (Mus.), that in which the variations from mathematically true pitch are distributed among all the keys alike.  -- Unequal temperament (Mus.), that in which the variations are thrown into the keys least used. 

TEMPERAMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to temperament; constitutional. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

TEMPERANCY:  Temperance. 

TEMPERATE:  To render temperate; to moderate; to soften; to temper. [Obs.] It inflames temperance, and temperates wrath. Marston. 

TEMPERATELY:  In a temperate manner. 

TEMPERATENESS:  The quality or state of being temperate; moderateness; temperance. 

TEMPERATIVE:  Having power to temper. [R.] T. Granger. 

TEMPERATURE:  Condition with respect to heat or cold, especially as indicated by the sensation produced, or by the thermometer or pyrometer; degree of heat or cold; as, the temperature of the air; high temperature; low temperature; temperature of freezing or of boiling.  4. Mixture; compound. [Obs.] Made a temperature of brass and iron together. Holland. Absolute temperature. (Physics) See under Absolute.  -- Animal temperature (Physiol.), the nearly constant temperature maintained in the bodies of warm-blooded (homoiothermal) animals during life. The ultimate source of the heat is to be found in the potential energy of the food and the oxygen which is absorbed from the air during respiration. See Homoiothermal.  -- Temperature sense (Physiol.), the faculty of perceiving cold and warmth, and so of perceiving differences of temperature in external objects. H. N. Martin. 

TEMPERED:  Brought to a proper temper; as, tempered steel; having (such) a temper; -- chiefly used in composition; as, a good-tempered or bad- tempered man; a well-tempered sword. 

TEMPERER:  One who, or that which, tempers; specifically, a machine in which lime, cement, stone, etc., are mixed with water. 

TEMPERING:  The process of giving the requisite degree of hardness or softness to a substance, as iron and steel; especially, the process of giving to steel the degree of hardness required for various purposes, consisting usually in first plunging the article, when heated to redness, in cold water or other liquid, to give an excess of hardness, and then reheating it gradually until the hardness is reduced or drawn down to the degree required, as indicated by the color produced on a polished portion, or by the burning of oil. Tempering color, the shade of color that indicates the degree of temper in tempering steel, as pale straw yellow for lancets, razors, and tools for metal; dark straw yellow for penknives, screw taps, etc.; brown yellow for axes, chisels, and plane irons; yellow tinged with purple for table knives and shears; purple for swords and watch springs; blue for springs and saws; and very pale blue tinged with green, too soft for steel instruments.  TEMPER SCREW Tem"per screw.  1. A screw link, to which is attached the rope of a rope-drilling apparatus, for feeding and slightly turning the drill jar at each stroke.  2.  A set screw used for adjusting. 

TEMPEST:  To disturb as by a tempest. [Obs.] Part huge of bulk Wallowing unwieldy, enormous in their gait, Tempest the ocean. Milton. 

TEMPEST:  To storm. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

TEMPESTIVE:  Seasonable; timely; as, tempestive showers. [Obs.] Heywood.  -- Tem*pes"tive*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

TEMPESTIVILY:  The quality, or state, of being tempestive; seasonableness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TEMPESTUOUS:  Of or pertaining to a tempest; involving or resembling a tempest; turbulent; violent; stormy; as, tempestuous weather; a tempestuous night; a tempestuous debate.  -- Tem*pes"tu*ous*ly, adv.  -- Tem*pes"tu*ous*ness, n. They saw the Hebrew leader, Waiting, and clutching his tempestuous beard. Longfellow. 

TEMPLAR:  Of or pertaining to a temple. [R.] Solitary, family, and templar devotion. Coleridge. 

TEMPLATE:  Same as Templet. 

TEMPLE:  A contrivence used in a loom for keeping the web stretched transversely. 

TEMPLE:  The space, on either side of the head, back of the eye and forehead, above the zygomatic arch and in front of the ear.  2. One of the side bars of a pair of spectacles, jointed to the bows, and passing one on either side of the head to hold the spectacles in place. 

TEMPLE:  The edifice erected at Jerusalem for the worship of Jehovah. Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch. John x. 23.  3. Hence, among Christians, an edifice erected as a place of public worship; a church. Can he whose life is a perpetual insult to the authority of God enter with any pleasure a temple consecrated to devotion and sanctified by prayer Buckminster.  4. Fig.: Any place in which the divine presence specially resides. "The temple of his body." John ii. 21. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the spirit of God dwelleth in you 1 Cor. iii. 16. The groves were God's first temples. Bryant. Inner Temple, and Middle Temple, two buildings, or ranges of buildings, occupied by two inns of court in London, on the site of a monastic establishment of the Knights Templars, called the Temple. 

TEMPLE:  To build a temple for; to appropriate a temple to; as, to temple a god. [R.] Feltham. 

TEMPLED:  Supplied with a temple or temples, or with churches; inclosed in a temple. I love thy rocks and rills, Thy woods and templed hills. S. F. Smith. 

TEMPLET:  A short piece of timber, iron, or stone, placed in a wall under a girder or other beam, to distribute the weight or pressure. 

TEMPO:  The rate or degree of movement in time. A tempo giusto (joos"to) Etym: [It.], in exact time; -- sometimes, directing a return to strict time after a tempo rubato.  -- Tempo rubato. See under Rubato. 

TEMPORAL:  Of or pertaining to the temple or temples; as, the temporal bone; a temporal artery. Temporal bone, a very complex bone situated in the side of the skull of most mammals and containing the organ of hearing. It consists of an expanded squamosal portion above the ear, corresponding to the squamosal and zygoma of the lower vertebrates, and a thickened basal petrosal and mastoid portion, corresponding to the periotic and tympanic bones of the lower vertebrates. 

TEMPORAL:  Anything temporal or secular; a temporality; -- used chiefly in the plural. Dryden. He assigns supremacy to the pope in spirituals, and to the emperor or temporals. Lowell. 

TEMPORALLY:  In a temporal manner; secularly. [R.] South. 

TEMPORALNESS:  Worldliness. [R.] Cotgrave. 

TEMPORANEOUS:  Temporarity. [Obs.] Hallywell. 

TEMPORARILY:  In a temporary manner; for a time. 

TEMPORARINESS:  The quality or state of being temporary; -- opposed to perpetuity. 

TEMPORARY:  Lasting for a time only; existing or continuing for a limited time; not permanent; as, the patient has obtained temporary relief. Temporary government of the city. Motley. Temporary star. (Astron.) See under Star. 

TEMPORIST:  A temporizer. [Obs.] Why, turn a temporist, row with the tide. Marston. 

TEMPORIZATION:  The act of temporizing. Johnson. 

TEMPORIZER:  One who temporizes; one who yields to the time, or complies with the prevailing opinions, fashions, or occasions; a trimmer. A sort of temporizers, ready to embrace and maintain all that is, or shall be, proposed, in hope of preferment. Burton. 

TEMPORIZINGLY:  In a temporizing or yielding manner.  TEMPORO- Tem"po*ro-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the temple, or temporal bone; as, temporofacial.  TEMPORO-AURICULAR Tem`po*ro-au*ric"u*lar, a. (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to both the temple and the ear; as, the temporo-auricular nerve. 

TEMPOROFACIAL:  Of or pertaining to both the temple and the face. 

TEMPOROMALAR:  Of or pertaining to both the temple and the region of the malar bone; as, the temporomalar nerve. 

TEMPOROMAXILLARY:  Of or pertaining to both the temple or the temporal bone and the maxilla. 

TEMPS:  Time. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TEMPSE:  See Temse. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

TEMPTABILITY:  The quality or state of being temptable; lability to temptation. 

TEMPTABLE:  Capable of being tempted; liable to be tempted. Cudworth. 

TEMPTATIONLESS:  Having no temptation or motive; as, a temptationless sin. [R.] Hammond. 

TEMPTATIOUS:  Tempting. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEMPTER:  One who tempts or entices; especially, Satan, or the Devil, regarded as the great enticer to evil. "Those who are bent to do wickedly will never want tempters to urge them on." Tillotson. So glozed the Tempter, and his proem tuned. Milton. 

TEMPTING:  Adapted to entice or allure; attractive; alluring; seductive; enticing; as, tempting pleasures.  -- Tempt"ing*ly, adv.  -- Tempt"ing*ness, n. 

TEMPTRESS:  A woman who entices. She was my temptress, the foul provoker. Sir W. Scott. 

TEMSE:  A sieve. [Written also tems, and tempse.] [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Temse bread, Temsed bread, Temse loaf, bread made of flour better sifted than common fluor. [Prov. Eng.]  TEMULENCE; TEMULENCY Tem"u*lence, Tem"u*len*cy, n. Etym: [L. temulentia.]  Intoxication; inebriation; drunkenness. [R.] "Their temulency." Jer. Taylor. 

TEMULENT:  Intoxicated; drunken. [R.] 

TEMULENTIVE:  Somewhat temulent; addicted to drink. [R.] R. Junius. 

TEN:  One more than nine; twice five. With twice ten sail I crossed the Phrygian Sea. Dryden.  Note: Ten is often used, indefinitely, for several, many, and other like words. There 's proud modesty in merit, Averse from begging, and resolved to pay Ten times the gift it asks. Dryden. 

TENABILITY:  The quality or state of being tenable; tenableness. 

TENABLE:  Capable of being held, naintained, or defended, as against an assailant or objector, or againts attempts to take or process; as, a tenable fortress, a tenable argument. If you have hitherto concealed his sight, Let it be tenable in your silence still. Shak. I would be the last man in the world to give up his cause when it was tenable. Sir W. Scott. 

TENABLENESS:  Same as Tenability. 

TENACE:  The holding by the fourth hand of the best and third best cards of a suit led; also, sometimes, the combination of best with third best card of a suit in any hand. 

TENACITY:  The greatest longitudinal stress a substance can bear without tearing asunder, -- usually expressed with reference to a unit area of the cross section of the substance, as the number of pounds per square inch, or kilograms per square centimeter, necessary to produce rupture. 

TENACULUM:  An instrument consisting of a fine, sharp hook attached to a handle, and used mainly for taking up arteries, and the like. 

TENACY:  Tenaciousness; obstinacy. [Obs.] Barrow. 

TENAILLE:  An outwork in the main ditch, in front of the curtain, between two bastions. See Illust. of Ravelin. 

TENAILLON:  A work constructed on each side of the ravelins, to increase their strength, procure additional ground beyond the ditch, or cover the shoulders of the bastions. 

TENANT:  One who holds or possesses lands, or other real estate, by any kind of right, whether in fee simple, in common, in severalty, for life, for years, or at will; also, one who has the occupation or temporary possession of lands or tenements the title of which is in another; -- correlative to landlord. See Citation from Blackstone, under Tenement, 2. Blount. Wharton.  2. One who has possession of any place; a dweller; an occupant. "Sweet tenants of this grove." Cowper. The hhappy tenant of your shade. Cowley. The sister tenants of the middle deep. Byron. Tenant in capite Etym: [L. in in + capite, abl. of caput head, chief.], or Tenant in chief, by the laws of England, one who holds immediately of the king. According to the feudal system, all lands in England are considered as held immediately or mediately of the king, who is styled lord paramount. Such tenants, however, are considered as having the fee of the lands and permanent possession. Blackstone.  -- Tenant in common. See under Common. 

TENANT:  To hold, occupy, or possess as a tenant. Sir Roger's estate is tenanted by persons who have served him or his ancestors. Addison. 

TENANTABLE:  Fit to be rented; in a condition suitable for a tenant.  -- Ten"ant*a*ble*ness, n. 

TENANTLESS:  Having no tenants; unoccupied; as, a tenantless mansion. Shak. 

TENANTRY:  See Tenon saw, under Tenon. 

TENCH:  A European fresh-water fish (Tinca tinca, or T. vulgaris) allied to the carp. It is noted for its tenacity of life. 

TEND:  To make a tender of; to offer or tender. [Obs.] 

TEND:  To await; to expect. [Obs.] Shak. 

TENDENCE:  Tendency. [Obs.] 

TENDENCY:  Direction or course toward any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient influence to bring about an effect or result. Writings of this kind, if conducted with candor, have a more particular tendency to the good of their country. Addison. In every experimental science, there is a tendency toward perfection. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Disposition; inclination; proneness; drift; scope; aim. 

TENDER:  A vessel employed to attend other vessels, to supply them with provisions and other stores, to convey intelligence, or the like.  3. A car attached to a locomotive, for carrying a supply of fuel and water. 

TENDER:  To offer in payment or satisfaction of a demand, in order to save a penalty or forfeiture; as, to tender the amount of rent or debt.  2. To offer in words; to present for acceptance. You see how all conditions, how all minds, . . . tender down Their services to Lord Timon. Shak. 

TENDER:  An offer, either of money to pay a debt, or of service to be performed, in order to save a penalty or forfeiture, which would be incurred by nonpayment or nonperformance; as, the tender of rent due, or of the amount of a note, with interest.  Note: To constitute a legal tender, such money must be offered as the law prescribes. So also the tender must be at the time and place where the rent or debt ought to be paid, and it must be to the full amount due.  2. Any offer or proposal made for acceptance; as, a tender of a loan, of service, or of friendship; a tender of a bid for a contract. A free, unlimited tender of the gospel. South.  3. The thing offered; especially, money offered in payment of an obligation. Shak. Legal tender. See under Legal.  -- Tender of issue (Law), a form of words in a pleading, by which a party offers to refer the question raised upon it to the appropriate mode of decision. Burrill. 

TENDER:  Heeling over too easily when under sail; -- said of a vessel.  Note: Tender is sometimes used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, tender-footed, tender-looking, tender-minded, tender- mouthed, and the like.  Syn.  -- Delicate; effeminate; soft; sensitive; compassionate; kind; humane; merciful; pitiful. 

TENDER:  Regard; care; kind concern. [Obs.] Shak. 

TENDER:  To have a care of; to be tender toward; hence, to regard; to esteem; to value. [Obs.] For first, next after life, he tendered her good. Spenser. Tender yourself more dearly. Shak. To see a prince in want would move a miser's charity. Our western princes tendered his case, which they counted might be their own. Fuller. 

TENDERFOOT:  A delicate person; one not inured to the hardship and rudeness of pioneer life. [Slang, Western U.S.]  TENDER-HEARTED Ten"der-heart`ed, a.  Having great sensibility; susceptible of impressions or influence; affectionate; pitying; sensitive.  -- Ten"der-heart`ed*ly, adv.  -- Ten"der-heart`ed*ness, n. Rehoboam was young and tender-hearted, and could not withstand them. 2 Chron. xiii. 7. Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted. Eph. iv. 32.  TENDER-HEFTED Ten"der-heft`ed, a.  Having great tenderness; easily moved. [Obs.] Shak. 

TENDERLING:  One of the first antlers of a deer. 

TENDERLOIN:  A strip of tender flesh on either side of the vertebral column under the short ribs, in the hind quarter of beef and pork. It consists of the psoas muscles. 

TENDERLY:  In a tender manner; with tenderness; mildly; gently; softly; in a manner not to injure or give pain; with pity or affection; kindly. Chaucer. 

TENDERNESS:  The quality or state of being tender (in any sense of the adjective).  Syn.  -- Benignity; humanity; sensibility; benevolence; kindness; pity; clemency; mildness; mercy. 

TENDMENT:  Attendance; care. [Obs.] 

TENDON:  A tough insensible cord, bundle, or band of fibrous connective tissue uniting a muscle with some other part; a sinew. Tendon reflex (Physiol.), a kind of reflex act in which a muscle is made to contract by a blow upon its tendon. Its absence is generally a sign of disease. See Knee jerk, under Knee. 

TENDONOUS:  Tendinous. 

TENDOSYNOVITIS:  See Tenosynovitis. 

TENDRAC:  Any one of several species of small insectivores of the family Centetidæ, belonging to Ericulus, Echinope, and related genera, native of Madagascar. They are more or less spinose and resemble the hedgehog in habits. The rice tendrac (Oryzorictes hora) is very injurious to rice crops. Some of the species are called also tenrec. 

TENDRE:  Tender feeling or fondness; affection.  You poor friendless creatures are always having some foolish tendre. Thackeray. 

TENDRESSE:  Tender feeling; fondness. [Obs., except as a French word] 

TENDRIL:  A slender, leafless portion of a plant by which it becomes attached to a supporting body, after which the tendril usually contracts by coiling spirally.  Note: Tendrils may represent the end of a stem, as in the grapevine; an axillary branch, as in the passion flower; stipules, as in the genus Smilax; or the end of a leaf, as in the pea. 

TENDRIL:  Clasping; climbing as a tendril. [R.] Dyer.  TENDRILED; TENDRILLED Ten"driled, Ten"drilled, a. (Bot.)  Furnished with tendrils, or with such or so many, tendrils. "The thousand tendriled vine." Southey. 

TENDRON:  A tendril. [Obs.] Holland. 

TENDRY:  A tender; an offer. [Obs.] Heylin. 

TENE:  See 1st and 2d Teen. [Obs.] 

TENEBRAE:  The matins and lauds for the last three days of Holy Week, commemorating the sufferings and death of Christ, -- usually sung on the afternoon or evening of Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, instead of on the following days. 

TENEBRICOSE:  Tenebrous; dark; gloomy. [Obs.] 

TENEBRIFIC:  Rendering dark or gloomy; tenebrous; gloomy. It lightens, it brightens, The tenebrific scene. Burns. Where light Lay fitful in a tenebrific time. R. Browning. 

TENEBRIFICOUS:  Tenebrific. Authors who are tenebrificous stars. Addison. 

TENEBRIOUS:  Tenebrous. Young. 

TENEBROSE:  Characterized by darkness or gloom; tenebrous. 

TENEBROSITY:  The quality or state of being tenebrous; tenebrousness. Burton. 

TENEBROUS:  Dark; gloomy; dusky; tenebrious.  -- Ten"e*brous*ness, n. The most dark, tenebrous night. J. Hall (1565). The towering and tenebrous boughts of the cypress. Longfellow. 

TENEMENT:  That which is held of another by service; property which one holds of a lord or proprietor in consideration of some military or pecuniary service; fief; fee.  2. (Common Law)  Any species of permanent property that may be held, so as to create a tenancy, as lands, houses, rents, commons, an office, an advowson, a franchise, a right of common, a peerage, and the like; -- called also free or frank tenements. The thing held is a tenement, the possessor of it a "tenant," and the manner of possession is called "tenure." Blackstone.  3. A dwelling house; a building for a habitation; also, an apartment, or suite of rooms, in a building, used by one family; often, a house erected to be rented.  4. Fig.: Dwelling; abode; habitation. Who has informed us that a rational soul can inhabit no tenement, unless it has just such a sort of frontispiece Locke. Tenement house, commonly, a dwelling house erected for the purpose of being rented, and divided into separate apartments or tenements for families. The term is often applied to apartment houses occupied by poor families.  Syn.  -- House; dwelling; habitation.  -- Tenement, House. There may be many houses under one roof, but they are completely separated from each other by party walls. A tenement may be detached by itself, or it may be part of a house divided off for the use of a family. 

TENEMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to a tenement; capable of being held by tenants. Blackstone. 

TENEMENTARY:  Capable of being leased; held by tenants. Spelman. 

TENENT:  A tenet. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. 

TENERAL:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a condition assumed by the imago of certain Neuroptera, after exclusion from the pupa. In this state the insect is soft, and has not fully attained its mature coloring. 

TENERIFFE:  A white wine resembling Madeira in taste, but more tart, produced in Teneriffe, one of the Canary Islands; -- called also Vidonia. 

TENERITY:  Tenderness. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

TENESMIC:  Of or pertaining to tenesmus; characterized by tenesmus. 

TENESMUS:  An urgent and distressing sensation, as if a discharge from the intestines must take place, although none can be effected; -- always referred to the lower extremity of the rectum. Vesical tenesmus, a similar sensation as to the evacuation of urine, referred to the region of the bladder. 

TENET:  Any opinion, principle, dogma, belief, or doctrine, which a person holds or maintains as true; as, the tenets of Plato or of Cicero. That al animals of the land are in their kind in the sea, . . . is a tenet very questionable. Sir T. Browne. The religious tenets of his family he had early renounced with contempt. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- Dogma; doctrine; opinion; principle; position. See Dogma. 

TENFOLD:  In tens; consisting of ten in one; ten times repeated. The grisly Terror . . . grew tenfold More dreadful and deform. Milton. 

TENIA:  See Tænia. 

TENIOID:  See Tænoid. 

TENNANTITE:  A blackish lead-gray mineral, closely related to tetrahedrite. It is essentially a sulphide of arsenic and copper. 

TENNE:  A tincture, rarely employed, which is considered as an orange color or bright brown. It is represented by diagonal lines from sinister to dexter, crossed by vertical lines. 

TENNIS:  A play in which a ball is driven to and fro, or kept in motion by striking it with a racket or with the open hand. Shak. His easy bow, his good stories, his style of dancing and playing tennis, . . . were familiar to all London. Macaulay. Court tennis, the old game of tennis as played within walled courts of peculiar construction; -- distinguished from lawn tennis.  -- Lawn tennis. See under Lawn, n.  -- Tennis court, a place or court for playing the game of tennis. Shak. 

TENNIS:  To drive backward and forward, as a ball in playing tennis. [R.] Spenser. 

TENNO:  Lit., King of Heaven; -- a title of the emperor of Japan as the head of the Shinto religion. 

TENNU:  The tapir. 

TENNYSONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Alfred (Lord) Tennyson, the English poet (1809-92); resembling, or having some of the characteristics of, his poetry, as simplicity, pictorial quality, sensuousness, etc.  TEN-O'CLOCK Ten"-o'*clock`, n. (Bot.)  A plant, the star-of-Bethlehem. See under Star. 

TENON:  A projecting member left by cutting away the wood around it, and made to insert into a mortise, and in this way secure together the parts of a frame; especially, such a member when it passes entirely through the thickness of the piece in which the mortise is cut, and shows on the other side. Cf. Tooth, Tusk. Tenon saw, a saw with a thin blade, usually stiffened by a brass or steel back, for cutting tenons. [Corruptly written tenant saw.] Gwilt. 

TENON:  To cut or fit for insertion into a mortise, as the end of a piece of timber. 

TENONIAN:  Discovered or described by M. Tenon, a French anatomist. Tenonian capsule (Anat.), a lymphatic space inclosed by a delicate membrane or fascia (the fascia of Tenon) between the eyeball and the fat of the orbit; -- called also capsule of Tenon. 

TENONITIS:  Inflammation of a tendon. 

TENONITIS:  Inflammation of the Tenonian capsule. 

TENOR:  An exact copy of a writing, set forth in the words and figures of it. It differs from purport, which is only the substance or general import of the instrument. Bouvier.  5. Etym: [F. ténor, L. tenor, properly, a holding; -- so called because the tenor was the voice which took and held the principal part, the plain song, air, or tune, to which the other voices supplied a harmony above and below: cf. It. tenore.] (Mus.) (a) The higher of the two kinds of voices usually belonging to adult males; hence, the part in the harmony adapted to this voice; the second of the four parts in the scale of sounds, reckoning from the base, and originally the air, to which the other parts were auxillary. (b) A person who sings the tenor, or the instrument that play it. Old Tenor, New Tenor, Middle Tenor, different descriptions of paper money, issued at different periods, by the American colonial governments in the last century. 

TENORRHAPHY:  Suture of a tendon. 

TENOSITIS:  Inflammation of a tendon. 

TENOSYNOVITIS:  Inflammation of the synovial sheath enveloping a tendon. 

TENOTOME:  A slender knife for use in the operation of tenotomy. 

TENOTOMY:  The division of a tendon, or the act of dividing a tendon. 

TENPENNY:  Valued or sold at ten pence; as, a tenpenny cake. See 2d Penny, n. 

TENPENNY:  Denoting a size of nails. See 1st Penny. 

TENPINS:  A game resembling ninepins, but played with ten pins. See Ninepins. [U. S.]  TEN-POUNDER Ten"-pound`er, n. (Zoöl.)  A large oceanic fish (Elops saurus) found in the tropical parts of all the oceans. It is used chiefly for bait. 

TENREC:  A small insectivore (Centetes ecaudatus), native of Madagascar, but introduced also into the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius; -- called also tanrec. The name is applied to other allied genera. See Tendrac. 

TENSE:  One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event signified; the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time.  Note: The primary simple tenses are three: those which express time past, present, and future; but these admit of modifications, which differ in different languages. 

TENSE:  Stretched tightly; strained to stiffness; rigid; not lax; as, a tense fiber. The temples were sunk, her forehead was tense, and a fatal paleness was upon her. Goldsmith. -- Tense"ly, adv.  -- Tense"ness, n. 

TENSIBILITY:  The quality or state of being tensible; tensility. 

TENSIBLE:  Capable of being extended or drawn out; ductile; tensible. Gold . . . is likewise the most flexible and tensible. Bacon. 

TENSILED:  Made tensile. [R.] 

TENSILITY:  The quality or state of being tensile, or capable of extension; tensibility; as, the tensility of the muscles. Dr. H. Mere. 

TENSION:  The force by which a part is pulled when forming part of any system in equilibrium or in motion; as, the tension of a srting supporting a weight equals that weight.  5. A device for checking the delivery of the thread in a sewing machine, so as to give the stitch the required degree of tightness.  6. (Physics)  Expansive force; the force with which the particles of a body, as a gas, tend to recede from each other and occupy a larger space; elastic force; elasticity; as, the tension of vapor; the tension of air.  7. (Elec.)  The quality in consequence of which an electric charge tends to discharge itself, as into the air by a spark, or to pass from a body of greater to one of less electrical potential. It varies as the quantity of electricity upon a given area. Tension brace, or Tension member (Engin.), a brace or member designed to resist tension, or subjected to tension, in a structure.  -- Tension rod (Engin.), an iron rod used as a tension member to strengthen timber or metal framework, roofs, or the like. 

TENSIONED:  Extended or drawn out; subjected to tension. "A highly tensioned string." Tyndall. 

TENSITY:  The quality or state of being tense, or strained to stiffness; tension; tenseness. 

TENSIVE:  Giving the sensation of tension, stiffness, or contraction. A tensive pain from distension of the parts. Floyer. 

TENSOR:  A muscle that stretches a part, or renders it tense.  2. (Geom.)  The ratio of one vector to another in length, no regard being had to the direction of the two vectors; -- so called because considered as a stretching factor in changing one vector into another. See Versor.  TEN-STRIKE Ten"-strike`, n.  1. (Tenpins)  A knocking down of all ten pins at one delivery of the ball. [U. S.]  2. Any quick, decisive stroke or act. [Colloq. U.S.] 

TENSURE:  Tension. [Obs.] Bacon. 

TENT:  A kind of wine of a deep red color, chiefly from Galicia or Malaga in Spain; -- called also tent wine, and tinta. 

TENT:  To attend to; to heed; hence, to guard; to hinder. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell. 

TENT:  To probe or to search with a tent; to keep open with a tent; as, to tent a wound. Used also figuratively. I'll tent him to the quick. Shak. 

TENT:  The representation of a tent used as a bearing. Tent bed, a high-post bedstead curtained with a tentlike canopy.  -- Tent caterpillar (Zoöl.), any one of several species of gregarious caterpillars which construct on trees large silken webs into which they retreat when at rest. Some of the species are very destructive to fruit trees. The most common American species is the larva of a bombycid moth (Clisiocampa Americana). Called also lackery caterpillar, and webworm. 

TENT:  To lodge as a tent; to tabernacle. Shak. We 're tenting to-night on the old camp ground. W. Kittredge. 

TENTACLE:  A more or less elongated process or organ, simple or branched, proceeding from the head or cephalic region of invertebrate animals, being either an organ of sense, prehension, or motion. Tentacle sheath (Zoöl.), a sheathlike structure around the base of the tentacles of many mollusks. 

TENTACLED:  Having tentacles. 

TENTACULAR:  Of or pertaining to a tentacle or tentacles. 

TENTACULATA:  A division of Ctenophora including those which have two long tentacles.  TENTACULATE; TENTACULATED Ten*tac"u*late, Ten*tac"u*la`ted, a. (Zoöl.)  Having tentacles, or organs like tentacles; tentacled. 

TENTACULIFERA:  Same as Suctoria, 1. 

TENTACULIFEROUS:  Producing or bearing tentacles. 

TENTACULIFORM:  Shaped like a tentacle. 

TENTACULITE:  Any one of numerous species of small, conical fossil shells found in Paleozoic rocks. They are supposed to be pteropods. 

TENTACULOCYST:  One of the auditory organs of certain medusæ; -- called also auditory tentacle. 

TENTACULUM:  A tentacle.  2. (Anat.)  One of the stiff hairs situated about the mouth, or on the face, of many animals, and supposed to be tactile organs; a tactile hair. 

TENTAGE:  A collection of tents; an encampment. [Obs.] Drayton. 

TENTATION:  A mode of adjusting or operating by repeated trials or experiments. Knight. 

TENTATIVE:  Of or pertaining to a trial or trials; essaying; experimental. "A slow, tentative manner." Carlyle.  -- Ten*ta"tive*ly, adv. 

TENTATIVE:  An essay; a trial; an experiment. Berkley. 

TENTED:  Covered with tents. 

TENTER:  A kind of governor. 

TENTER:  A machine or frame for stretching cloth by means of hooks, called tenter-hooks, so that it may dry even and square. Tenter ground, a place where tenters are erected.  -- Tenter-hook, a sharp, hooked nail used for fastening cloth on a tenter.  -- To be on the tenters, or on the tenter-hooks, to be on the stretch; to be in distress, uneasiness, or suspense. Hudibras. 

TENTER:  To admit extension. Woolen cloth will tenter, linen scarcely. Bacon. 

TENTER:  To hang or stretch on, or as on, tenters. 

TENTFUL:  As much, or as many, as a tent will hold. 

TENTH:  The interval between any tone and the tone represented on the tenth degree of the staff above it, as between one of the scale and three of the octave above; the octave of the third.  5. pl. (Eng. Law) (a) A temporary aid issuing out of personal property, and granted to the king by Parliament; formerly, the real tenth part of all the movables belonging to the subject. (b) (Eccl. Law) The tenth part of the annual profit of every living in the kingdom, formerly paid to the pope, but afterward transferred to the crown. It now forms a part of the fund called Queen Anne's Bounty. Burrill. 

TENTHLY:  In a tenth manner.  TENTHMETER; TENTHMETRE Tenth"me`ter, Tenth"me`tre, n. (Physics)  A unit for the measurement of many small lengths, such that 1010 of these units make one meter; the ten millionth part of a millimeter. 

TENTHREDINIDES:  A group of Hymneoptera comprising the sawflies. 

TENTIF:  Attentive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TENTIFLY:  Attentively. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TENTMAKER:  One whose occupation it is to make tents. Acts xviii. 3. 

TENTORIUM:  A fold of the dura mater which separates the cerebellum from the cerebrum and often incloses a process or plate of the skull called the bony tentorium. 

TENTORY:  The awning or covering of a tent. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

TENTWORT:  A kind of small fern, the wall rue. See under Wall. 

TENUATE:  To make thin; to attenuate. [R.] 

TENUIFOLIOUS:  Having thin or narrow leaves. 

TENUIOUS:  Rare or subtile; tenuous; -- opposed to dense. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

TENUIROSTER:  One of the Tenuirostres. 

TENUIROSTRAL:  Thin-billed; -- applied to birds with a slender bill, as the humming birds. 

TENUIROSTRES:  An artificial group of passerine birds having slender bills, as the humming birds. 

TENUIS:  One of the three surd mutes k, p, t; -- so called in relation to their respective middle letters, or medials, g, b, d, and their aspirates, x, f, th. The term is also applied to the corresponding letters and articulate elements in other languages. 

TENUOUS:  Lacking substance, as a tenuous argument. 

TENURE:  The manner of holding lands and tenements of a superior.  Note: Tenure is inseparable from the idea of property in land, according to the theory of the English law; and this idea of tenure pervades, to a considerable extent, the law of real property in the United States, where the title to land is essentially allodial, and almost all lands are held in fee simple, not of a superior, but the whole right and title to the property being vested in the owner. Tenure, in general, then, is the particular manner of holding real estate, as by exclusive title or ownership, by fee simple, by fee tail, by courtesy, in dower, by copyhold, by lease, at will, etc.  3. The consideration, condition, or service which the occupier of land gives to his lord or superior for the use of his land.  4. Manner of holding, in general; as, in absolute governments, men hold their rights by a precarious tenure. All that seems thine own, Held by the tenure of his will alone. Cowper. Tenure by fee alms. (Law) See Frankalmoigne. 

TEOCALLI:  Literally, God's house; a temple, usually of pyramidal form, such as were built by the aborigines of Mexico, Yucatan, etc. And Aztec priests upon their teocallis Beat the wild war-drums made of serpent's skin. Longfellow. 

TEOSINTE:  A large grass (Euchlæna luxurians) closely related to maize. It is native of Mexico and Central America, but is now cultivated for fodder in the Southern United States and in many warm countries. Called also Guatemala grass. 

TEPAL:  A division of a perianth. [R.] 

TEPEE:  An Indian wigwam or tent. 

TEPEFACTION:  Act of tepefying. 

TEPEFY:  To make or become tepid, or moderately warm. Goldsmith. 

TEPHRAMANCY:  Divination by the ashes of the altar on which a victim had been consumed in sacrifice. 

TEPHRITE:  An igneous rock consisting essentially of plagioclase and either leucite or nephelite, or both. 

TEPHROITE:  A silicate of manganese of an ash-gray color. 

TEPHROSIA:  A genus of leguminous shrubby plants and herbs, mostly found in tropical countries, a few herbaceous species being North American. The foliage is often ashy-pubescent, whence the name.  Note: The Tephrosia toxicaria is used in the West Indies and in Polynesia for stupefying fish. T. purpurea is used medicinally in the East Indies. T. Virginia is the goat's rue of the United States. 

TEPID:  Moderately warm; lukewarm; as, a tepid bath; tepid rays; tepid vapors.  -- Tep"id*ness, n. 

TEPIDITY:  The quality or state of being tepid; moderate warmth; lukewarmness; tepidness. Jer. Taylor. 

TEPOR:  Gentle heat; moderate warmth; tepidness. Arbuthnot. 

TEQUILA:  An intoxicating liquor made from the maguey in the district of Tequila, Mexico.  TER- Ter-.  A combining form from L. ter signifying three times, thrice. See Tri-, 2. 

TERACONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the distillation of terebic acid, and homologous with citraconic acid. 

TERACRYLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acrylic series, obtained by the distillation of terpenylic acid, as an only substance having a peculiar cheesy odor. 

TERAPH:  See Teraphim. 

TERAPHIM:  Images connected with the magical rites used by those Israelites who added corrupt practices to the patriarchal religion. Teraphim were consulted by the Israelites for oracular answers. Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.). 

TERAPIN:  See Terrapin. 

TERATICAL:  Wonderful; ominous; prodigious. [Obs.] Wollaston. 

TERATOGENY:  The formation of monsters. 

TERATOID:  Resembling a monster; abnormal; of a pathological growth, exceedingly complex or highly organized. S. D. Gross. 

TERATOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to teratology; as, teratological changes. 

TERATOMA:  A tumor, sometimes found in newborn children, which is made up of a heterigenous mixture of tissues, as of bone, cartilage and muscle. 

TERBIC:  Of, pertaining to, or containing, terbium; also, designating certain of its compounds. 

TERBIUM:  A rare metallic element, of uncertain identification, supposed to exist in certain minerals, as gadolinite and samarskite, with other rare ytterbium earth. Symbol Tr or Tb. Atomic weight 150. 

TERCE:  See Tierce. 

TERCEL:  See Tiercel. Called also tarsel, tassel. Chaucer. 

TERCELET:  A male hawk or eagle; a tiercelet. Chaucer. 

TERCELLENE:  A small male hawk. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

TERCENTENARY:  Including, or relating to, an interval of three hundred years.  -- n.  The three hundredth anniversary of any event; also, a celebration of such an anniversary. 

TERCET:  A triplet. Hiles.  2. (Poetry)  A triplet; a group of three lines. 

TERCINE:  A cellular layer derived from the nucleus of an ovule and surrounding the embryo sac. Cf. Quintine. 

TEREBATE:  A salt of terebic acid. 

TEREBENE:  A polymeric modification of terpene, obtained as a white crystalline camphorlike substance; -- called also camphene. By extension, any one of a group of related substances. 

TEREBENTHENE:  Oil of turpentine. See Turpentine. 

TEREBIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, terbenthene (oil of turpentine); specifically, designating an acid, C7H10O4, obtained by the oxidation of terbenthene with nitric acid, as a white crystalline substance. 

TEREBILENIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid, C7H8O4, obtained as a white crystalline substance by a modified oxidation of terebic acid. 

TEREBINTH:  The turpentine tree. 

TEREBINTHIC:  Of or pertaining to turpentine; resembling turpentine; terbinthine; as, terbinthic qualities. 

TEREBINTHINATE:  Impregnating with the qualities of turpentine; terbinthine. 

TEREBINTHINE:  Of or pertaining to turpentine; consisting of turpentine, or partaking of its qualities. 

TEREBRA:  A genus of marine gastropods having a long, tapering spire. They belong to the Toxoglossa. Called also auger shell.  2. (Zoöl.)  The boring ovipositor of a hymenopterous insect. 

TEREBRANT:  Boring, or adapted for boring; -- said of certain Hymenoptera, as the sawflies. 

TEREBRANTIA:  A division of Hymenoptera including those which have an ovipositor adapted for perforating plants. It includes the sawflies. 

TEREBRATE:  To perforate; to bore; to pierce. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

TEREBRATING:  Boring; perforating; -- applied to molluskas which form holes in rocks, wood, etc.  2. (Med.)  Boring; piercing; -- applied to certain kinds of pain, especially to those of locomotor ataxia. 

TEREBRATION:  The act of terebrating, or boring. [R.] Bacon. 

TEREBRATULA:  A genus of brachiopods which includes many living and some fossil species. The larger valve has a perforated beak, through which projects a short peduncle for attachment. Called also lamp shell. 

TEREBRATULID:  Any species of Terebratula or allied genera. Used also adjectively. 

TEREBRATULIFORM:  Having the general form of a terebratula shell. 

TEREDINE:  A borer; the teredo. 

TEREDO:  A genus of long, slender, wormlike bivalve mollusks which bore into submerged wood, such as the piles of wharves, bottoms of ships, etc.; -- called also shipworm. See Shipworm. See Illust. in App. 

TEREK:  A sandpiper (Terekia cinerea) of the Old World, breeding in the far north of eastern Europe and Asia and migrating to South Africa and Australia. It frequents rivers. 

TEREPHTHALATE:  A salt of terephthalic acid. 

TEREPHTHALIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid of the aromatic series, metameric with phthalic acid, and obtained, as a tasteless white crystalline powder, by the oxidation of oil of turpentine; -- called also paraphthalic acid. Cf. Phthalic. 

TERET:  Round; terete. [Obs.] Fotherby. 

TERETE:  Cylindrical and slightly tapering; columnar, as some stems of plants. 

TERETIAL:  Rounded; as, the teretial tracts in the floor of the fourth ventricle of the brain of some fishes. Owen. 

TERETOUS:  Terete. [Obs.] 

TERGAL:  Of or pertaining to back, or tergum. See Dorsal. 

TERGANT:  Showing the back; as, the eagle tergant. [Written also tergiant.]  TERGEMINAL; TERGEMINATE Ter*gem"i*nal, Ter*gem"i*nate, a. Etym: [See Tergeminous.] (Bot.)  Thrice twin; having three pairs of leaflets. 

TERGEMINOUS:  Threefold; thrice-paired. Blount. 

TERGIFEROUS:  Carrying or bearing upon the back. Tergiferous plants (Bot.), plants which bear their seeds on the back of their leaves, as ferns. 

TERGITE:  The dorsal portion of an arthromere or somite of an articulate animal. See Illust. under Coleoptera. 

TERGIVERSATE:  To shift; to practice evasion; to use subterfuges; to shuffle. [R.] Bailey. 

TERGIVERSATOR:  One who tergiversates; one who suffles, or practices evasion. 

TERIN:  A small yellow singing bird, with an ash-colored head; the European siskin. Called also tarin. 

TERM:  A point, line, or superficies, that limits; as, a line is the term of a superficies, and a superficies is the term of a solid.  5. (Law)  A fixed period of time; a prescribed duration; as: (a) The limitation of an estate; or rather, the whole time for which an estate is granted, as for the term of a life or lives, or for a term of years. (b) A space of time granted to a debtor for discharging his obligation. (c) The time in which a court is held or is open for the trial of causes. Bouvier.  Note: In England, there were formerly four terms in the year, during which the superior courts were open: Hilary term, beginning on the 11th and ending on the 31st of January; Easter term, beginning on the 15th of April, and ending on the 8th of May; Trinity term, beginning on the 22d day of May, and ending on the 12th of June; Michaelmas term, beginning on the 2d and ending on the 25th day of November. The rest of the year was called vacation. But this division has been practically abolished by the Judicature Acts of 1873, 1875, which provide for the more convenient arrangement of the terms and vacations. In the United States, the terms to be observed by the tribunals of justice are prescribed by the statutes of Congress and of the several States.  6. (Logic)  The subject or the predicate of a proposition; one of the three component parts of a syllogism, each one of which is used twice. The subject and predicate of a proposition are, after Aristotle, together called its terms or extremes. Sir W. Hamilton.  Note: The predicate of the conclusion is called the major term, because it is the most general, and the subject of the conclusion is called the minor term, because it is less general. These are called the extermes; and the third term, introduced as a common measure between them, is called the mean or middle term. Thus in the following syllogism, --Every vegetable is combustible; Every tree is a vegetable; Therefore every tree is combustible, -combustible, the predicate of the conclusion, is the major term; tree is the minor term; vegetable is the middle term.  7. A word or expression; specifically, one that has a precisely limited meaning in certain relations and uses, or is peculiar to a science, art, profession, or the like; as, a technical term. "Terms quaint of law." Chaucer. In painting, the greatest beauties can not always be expressed for want of terms. Dryden.  8. (Arch.)  A quadrangular pillar, adorned on the top with the figure of a head, as of a man, woman, or satyr; -- called also terminal figure. See Terminus, n., 2 and 3.  Note: The pillar part frequently tapers downward, or is narrowest at the base. Terms rudely carved were formerly used for landmarks or boundaries. Gwilt.  9. (Alg.)  A member of a compound quantity; as, a or b in a + b; ab or cd in ab - cd.  10. pl. (Med.)  The menses.  11. pl. (Law)  Propositions or promises, as in contracts, which, when assented to or accepted by another, settle the contract and bind the parties; conditions.  12. (Law)  In Scotland, the time fixed for the payment of rents.  Note: Terms legal and conventional in Scotland correspond to quarter days in England and Ireland. There are two legal terms -- Whitsunday, May 15, and Martinmas, Nov. 11; and two conventional terms -- Candlemas, Feb. 2, and Lammas day, Aug. 1. Mozley & W.  13. (Naut.)  A piece of carved work placed under each end of the taffrail. J. Knowels. In term, in set terms; in formal phrase. [Obs.] I can not speak in term. Chaucer. -- Term fee (Law) (a), a fee by the term, chargeable to a suitor, or by law fixed and taxable in the costs of a cause for each or any term it is in court.  -- Terms of a proportion (Math.), the four members of which it is composed.  -- To bring to terms, to compel (one) to agree, assent, or submit; to force (one) to come to terms.  -- To make terms, to come to terms; to make an agreement: to agree.  Syn.  -- Limit; bound; boundary; condition; stipulation; word; expression.  -- Term, Word. These are more frequently interchanged than almost any other vocables that occur of the language. There is, however, a difference between them which is worthy of being kept in mind. Word is generic; it denotes an utterance which represents or expresses our thoughts and feelings. Term originally denoted one of the two essential members of a proposition in logic, and hence signifies a word of specific meaning, and applicable to a definite class of objects. Thus, we may speak of a scientific or a technical term, and of stating things in distinct terms. Thus we say, "the term minister literally denotes servant;" "an exact definition of terms is essential to clearness of thought;" "no term of reproach can sufficiently express my indignation;" "every art has its peculiar and distinctive terms," etc. So also we say, "purity of style depends on the choice of words, and precision of style on a clear understanding of the terms used." Term is chiefly applied to verbs, nouns, and adjectives, these being capable of standing as terms in a logical proposition; while prepositions and conjunctions, which can never be so employed, are rarely spoken of as terms, but simply as words. 

TERM:  To apply a term to; to name; to call; to denominate. Men term what is beyond the limits of the universe "imaginary space." Locke. 

TERMA:  The terminal lamina, or thin ventral part, of the anterior wall of the third ventricle of the brain. B. G. Wilder. 

TERMAGANCY:  The quality or state of being termagant; turbulence; tumultuousness; as, a violent termagancy of temper. 

TERMAGANT:  Tumultuous; turbulent; boisterous; furious; quarrelsome; scolding.  -- Ter"ma*gant*ly, adv. A termagant, imperious, prodigal, profligate wench. Arbuthnot. 

TERMATARIUM:  Any nest or dwelling of termes, or white ants. 

TERMATARY:  Same as Termatarium.  TERM DAY Term day.  A day which is a term (as for payment of rent), or is a day in a term, as of the sitting of a court; esp., one of a series of special days, designated by scientists of different nations or stations, for making synoptic magnetic, meteorological, or other physical observations. 

TERMER:  One who has an estate for a term of years or for life. 

TERMES:  A genus of Pseudoneuroptera including the white ants, or termites. See Termite. 

TERMINABLE:  Capable of being terminated or bounded; limitable.  -- Ter"mi*na*ble*ness, n. Terminable annuity, an annuity for a stated, definite number of years; -- distinguished from life annuity, and perpetual annuity. 

TERMINAL:  Growing at the end of a branch or stem; terminating; as, a terminal bud, flower, or spike. Terminal moraine. See the Note under Moraine.  -- Terminal statue. See Terminus, n., 2 and 3.  -- Terminal velocity. (a) The velocity acquired at the end of a body's motion. (b) The limit toward which the velocity of a body approaches, as of a body falling through the air. 

TERMINAL:  Either of the ends of the conducting circuit of an electrical apparatus, as an inductorium, dynamo, or electric motor, usually provided with binding screws for the attachment of wires by which a current may be conveyed into or from the machine; a pole. 

TERMINALIA:  A festival celebrated annually by the Romans on February 23 in honor of Terminus, the god of boundaries. 

TERMINANT:  Termination; ending. [R.] Puttenham. 

TERMINATION:  The ending of a word; a final syllable or letter; the part added to a stem in inflection. 

TERMINATIONAL:  Of or pertaining to termination; forming a termination. 

TERMINATIVE:  Tending or serving to terminate; terminating; determining; definitive. Bp. Rust.  -- Ter"mi*na*tive*ly, adv. Jer. Taylor. 

TERMINATOR:  The dividing line between the illuminated and the unilluminated part of the moon. 

TERMINATORY:  Terminative. 

TERMINE:  To terminate. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

TERMINER:  A determining; as, in oyer and terminer. See Oyer. 

TERMINISM:  The doctrine held by the Terminists. 

TERMINIST:  One of a class of theologians who maintain that God has fixed a certain term for the probation of individual persons, during which period, and no longer, they have the offer to grace. Murdock. 

TERMINOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to terminology.  -- Ter`mi*no*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

TERMINOLOGY:  Insurance for a specified term providing for no payment to the insured except upon losses during the term, and becoming void upon its expiration. 

TERMINUS:  The Roman divinity who presided over boundaries, whose statue was properly a short pillar terminating in the bust of a man, woman, satyr, or the like, but often merely a post or stone stuck in the ground on a boundary line.  3. Hence, any post or stone marking a boundary; a term. See Term, 8.  4. Either end of a railroad line; also, the station house, or the town or city, at that place. 

TERMITE:  Any one of numerous species of pseudoneoropterous insects belonging to Termes and allied genera; -- called also white ant. See Illust. of White ant.  Note: They are very abundant in tropical countries, and are noted for their destructive habits, their large nests, their remarkable social instincts, and their division of labor among the polymorphic individuals of several kinds. Besides the males and females, each nest has ordinary workers, and large-headed individuals called soldiers. 

TERMLY:  Occurring every term; as, a termly fee. [R.] Bacon. 

TERMLY:  Term by term; every term. [R.] "Fees . . . that are termly given." Bacon. 

TERMONOLOGY:  Terminology. [R.] 

TERMOR:  Same as Termer, 2.  TERM POLICY Term policy.  A policy of term insurance. 

TERN:  Any one of numerous species of long-winged aquatic birds, allied to the gulls, and belonging to Sterna and various allied genera.  Note: Terns differ from gulls chiefly in their graceful form, in their weaker and more slender bills and feet, and their longer and more pointed wings. The tail is usually forked. Most of the species are white with the back and wings pale gray, and often with a dark head. The common European tern (Sterna hirundo) is found also in Asia and America. Among other American species are the arctic tern (S. paradisæa), the roseate tern (S. Dougalli), the least tern (S. Antillarum), the royal tern (S. maxima), and the sooty tern (S. fuliginosa). Hooded tern. See Fairy bird, under Fairy.  -- Marsh tern, any tern of the genus Hydrochelidon. They frequent marshes and rivers and feed largely upon insects.  -- River tern, any tern belonging to Seëna or allied genera which frequent rivers.  -- Sea tern, any tern of the genus Thalasseus. Terns of this genus have very long, pointed wings, and chiefly frequent seas and the mouths of large rivers. 

TERN:  Threefold; triple; consisting of three; ternate. Tern flowers (Bot.), flowers growing three and three together.  -- Tern leaves (Bot.), leaves arranged in threes, or three by three, or having three in each whorl or set.  -- Tern peduncles (Bot.), three peduncles growing together from the same axis.  -- Tern schooner (Naut.), a three-masted schooner. 

TERN:  That which consists of, or pertains to, three things or numbers together; especially, a prize in a lottery resulting from the favorable combination of three numbers in the drawing; also, the three numbers themselves. She'd win a tern in Thursday's lottery. Mrs. Browning. 

TERNARY:  Containing, or consisting of, three different parts, as elements, atoms, groups, or radicals, which are regarded as having different functions or relations in the molecule; thus, sodic hydroxide, NaOH, is a ternary compound. 

TERNARY:  A ternion; the number three; three things taken together; a triad. Some in ternaries, some in pairs, and some single. Holder. 

TERNATE:  Having the parts arranged by threes; as, ternate branches, leaves, or flowers.  -- Ter"nate*ly, adv. 

TERNEPLATE:  Thin iron sheets coated with an alloy of lead and tin; -- so called because made up of three metals. 

TERNION:  The number three; three things together; a ternary. Bp. Hall. 

TERPENE:  Any one of a series of isomeric hydrocarbons of pleasant aromatic odor, occurring especially in coniferous plants and represented by oil of turpentine, but including also certain hydrocarbons found in some essential oils. 

TERPENTIC:  Terpenylic. 

TERPENYLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4 (called also terpentic acid), homologous with terebic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance by the oxidation of oil of turpentine with chromic acid. 

TERPILENE:  A polymeric form of terpene, resembling terbene. 

TERPIN:  A white crystalline substance regarded as a hydrate of oil of turpentine. 

TERPINOL:  Any oil substance having a hyacinthine odor, obtained by the action of acids on terpin, and regarded as a related hydrate. 

TERPSICHORE:  The Muse who presided over the choral song and the dance, especially the latter. 

TERPSICHOREAN:  Of or pertaining to Terpsichore; of or pertaining to dancing. 

TERRA:  The earth; earth. Terra alba Etym: [L., white earth] (Com.), a white amorphous earthy substance consisting of burnt gypsum, aluminium silicate (kaolin), or some similar ingredient, as magnesia. It is sometimes used to adulterate certain foods, spices, candies, paints, etc.  -- Terra cotta. Etym: [It., fr. terra earth + cotta, fem. of cotto cooked, L. coctus, p.p. of coquere to cook. See Cook, n.] Baked clay; a kind of hard pottery used for statues, architectural decorations, figures, vases, and the like.  -- Terræ filius Etym: [L., son of the earth], formerly, one appointed to write a satirical Latin poem at the public acts in the University of Oxford; -- not unlike the prevaricator at Cambridge, England.  -- Terra firma Etym: [L.], firm or solid earth, as opposed to water.  -- Terra Japonica. Etym: [NL.] Same as Gambier. It was formerly supposed to be a kind of earth from Japan.  -- Terra Lemnia Etym: [L., Lemnian earth], Lemnian earth. See under Lemnian.  -- Terra ponderosa Etym: [L., ponderous earth] (Min.), barite, or heavy spar.  -- Terra di Sienna. See Sienna. 

TERRACE:  A level plain, usually with a steep front, bordering a river, a lake, or sometimes the sea.  Note: Many rivers are bordered by a series of terraces at different levels, indicating the flood plains at successive periods in their history. Terrace epoch. (Geol.) See Drift epoch, under Drift, a. 

TERRACE:  To form into a terrace or terraces; to furnish with a terrace or terraces, as, to terrace a garden, or a building. Sir H. Wotton. Clermont's terraced height, and Esher's groves. Thomson. 

TERRACULTURE:  Cultivation on the earth; agriculture. [R.] -- Ter`ra*cul"tur*al, a. [R.]  TERRA INCOGNITA Ter"ra in*cog"ni*ta. [L.]  An unknown land; unexplored country.  The enormous tracts lying outside China proper, still almost terræ incognitæ. A. R. Colquhoun. 

TERRANE:  A group of rocks having a common age or origin; -- nearly equivalent to formation, but used somewhat less comprehensively. 

TERRAPIN:  Any one of numerous species of tortoises living in fresh and brackish waters. Many of them are valued for food. [Written also terapin, terrapen, terrapene, and turapen.]  Note: The yellow-bellied terrapin (Pseudemys acebra) of the Southern United States, the red-bellied terrapin (Pseudemys rugosa), native of the tributaries Chesapeake Bay (called also potter, slider, and redfender), and the diamond-back or salt-marsh terrapin (Malaclemmys palustris), are the most important American species. The diamond-back terrapin is native of nearly the whole of the Atlantic coast of the United States. Alligator terrapin, the snapping turtle.  -- Mud terrapin, any one of numerous species of American tortoises of the genus Cinosternon.  -- Painted terrapin, the painted turtle. See under Painted.  -- Speckled terrapin, a small fresh-water American terrapin (Chelopus guttatus) having the carapace black with round yellow spots; -- called also spotted turtle. 

TERRAQUEOUS:  Consisting of land and water; as, the earth is a terraqueous globe. Cudworth. The grand terraqueous spectacle From center to circumference unveiled. Wordsworth. 

TERRAR:  See 2d Terrier, 2. 

TERRAS:  See . 

TERREEN:  See Turren. 

TERREITY:  Quality of being earthy; earthiness. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

TERREL:  A spherical magnet so placed that its poles, equator, etc., correspond to those of the earth. [Obs.] Chambers. 

TERREMOTE:  An earthquake. [Obs.] Gower. 

TERRENE:  A tureen. [Obs.] Walpole. 

TERRENE:  The surface of the ground. 

TERRENITY:  Earthiness; worldliness. [Obs.] "A dull and low terrenity." Feltham. 

TERREOUS:  Consisting of earth; earthy; as, terreous substances; terreous particles. [Obs.] 

TERREPLEIN:  The top, platform, or horizontal surface, of a rampart, on which the cannon are placed. See Illust. of Casemate. 

TERRESTRE:  Terrestrial; earthly. [Obs.] "His paradise terrestre." Chaucer. 

TERRESTRIAL:  An inhabitant of the earth. 

TERRESTRIFY:  To convert or reduce into a condition like that of the earth; to make earthy. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TERRESTRIOUS:  Terrestrial. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TERRET:  One of the rings on the top of the saddle of a harness, through which the reins pass.  TERRE-TENANT Terre"-ten`ant, n. Etym: [F. terre earth, land + tenant, p.pr. of tenir to hold.] (Law)  One who has the actual possession of land; the occupant. [Written also ter-tenant.]  TERRE-VERTE Terre"-verte`, n. Etym: [F., fr. terre earth + vert, verte, green.]  An olive-green earth used as a pigment. See Glauconite. 

TERRICOLAE:  A division of annelids including the common earthworms and allied species. 

TERRIENNIAK:  The arctic fox. 

TERRIER:  An auger or borer. [Obs.] 

TERRIER:  One of a breed of small dogs, which includes several distinct subbreeds, some of which, such as the Skye terrier and Yorkshire terrier, have long hair and drooping ears, while others, at the English and the black-and-tan terriers, have short, close, smooth hair and upright ears.  Note: Most kinds of terriers are noted for their courage, the acuteness of their sense of smell, their propensity to hunt burrowing animals, and their activity in destroying rats, etc. See Fox terrier, under Fox.  2. Etym: [F. terrier, papier terrier, LL. terrarius liber, i.e., a book belonging or pertaining to land or landed estates. See Terrier, 1, and cf. Terrar.] (Law) (a) Formerly, a collection of acknowledgments of the vassals or tenants of a lordship, containing the rents and services they owed to the lord, and the like. (b) In modern usage, a book or roll in which the lands of private persons or corporations are described by their site, boundaries, number of acres, or the like. [Written also terrar.] 

TERRIFIC:  Causing terror; adapted to excite great fear or dread; terrible; as, a terrific form; a terrific sight. 

TERRIFICAL:  Terrific. [R.] 

TERRIFICALLY:  In a terrific manner. 

TERRIGENOUS:  Earthborn; produced by the earth. 

TERRITORIALLY:  In regard to territory; by means of territory.  TERRITORIAL WATERS Ter`ri*to"ri*al wa"ters. (Internat. Law)  The waters under the territorial jurisdiction of a state; specif., the belt (often called the marine belt or territorial sea) of sea subject to such jurisdiction, and subject only to the right of innocent passage by the vessels of other states.  Perhaps it may be said without impropriety that a state has theoretically the right to extend its territorial waters from time to time at its will with the increased range of guns. Whether it would in practice be judicious to do so . . . is a widely different matter . . . . In any case the custom of regulating a line three miles from land as defining the boundary of marginal territorial waters is so far fixed that a state must be supposed to accept it in absence of express notice. W. E. Hall. 

TERRITORIED:  Possessed of territory. [R.] 

TERRORISM:  The act of terrorizing, or state of being terrorized; a mode of government by terror or intimidation. Jefferson.  The practise of coercing governments to accede to political demands by committing violence on civilian targets; any similar use of violence to achieve goals. 

TERRORIST:  One who governs by terrorism or intimidation; specifically, an agent or partisan of the revolutionary tribunal during the Reign of Terror in France. Burke. 

TERRORIZE:  To impress with terror; to coerce by intimidation. Humiliated by the tyranny of foreign despotism, and terrorized by ecclesiastical authority. J. A. Symonds. 

TERRORLESS:  Free from terror. Poe. 

TERRY:  A kind of heavy colored fabric, either all silk, or silk and worsted, or silk and cotton, often called terry velvet, used for upholstery and trimmings. 

TERSANCTUS:  An ancient ascription of praise (containing the word "Holy" -- in its Latin form, "Sanctus" -- thrice repeated), used in the Mass of the Roman Catholic Church and before the prayer of consecration in the communion service of the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal Church. Cf. Trisagion. 

TERSULPHIDE:  A trisulphide. 

TERSULPHURET:  A trisulphide. [R.]  TER-TENANT Ter"-ten`ant, n.  See Terre-tenant. 

TERTIAL:  Same as Tertiary. 

TERTIAN:  Occurring every third day; as, a tertian fever. 

TERTIAN:  A disease, especially an intermittent fever, which returns every third day, reckoning inclusively, or in which the intermission lasts one day.  2. A liquid measure formerly used for wine, equal to seventy imperial, or eighty-four wine, gallons, being one third of a tun. 

TERTIARY:  Possessing some quality in the third degree; having been subjected to the substitution of three atoms or radicals; as, a tertiary alcohol, amine, or salt. Cf. Primary, and Secondary. (CH3)3C.OH.  3. (Geol.)  Later than, or subsequent to, the Secondary.  4. (Zoöl.)  Growing on the innermost joint of a bird's wing; tertial; -- said of quills. Tertiary age. (Geol.) See under Age, 8.  -- Tertiary color, a color produced by the mixture of two secondaries. "The so-called tertiary colors are citrine, russet, and olive." Fairholt.  -- Tertiary period. (Geol.) (a) The first period of the age of mammals, or of the Cenozoic era. (b) The rock formation of that period; -- called also Tertiary formation. See the Chart of Geology.  -- Tertiary syphilis (Med.), the third and last stage of syphilis, in which it invades the bones and internal organs. 

TERTIARY:  A member of the Third Order in any monastic system; as, the Franciscan tertiaries; the Dominican tertiaries; the Carmelite tertiaries. See Third Order, under Third. Addis & Arnold.  2. (Geol.)  The Tertiary era, period, or formation.  3. (Zoöl.)  One of the quill feathers which are borne upon the basal joint of the wing of a bird. See Illust. of Bird. 

TERTIATE:  To examine, as the thickness of the metal at the muzzle of a gun; or, in general, to examine the thickness of, as ordnance, in order to ascertain its strength.  TERTIUM QUID Ter"ti*um quid. [L.]  A third somewhat; something mediating, or regarded as being, between two diverse or incompatible substances, natures, or positions. 

TERUTERO:  The South American lapwing (Vanellus Cayennensis). Its wings are furnished with short spurs. Called also Cayenne lapwing.  TERZA RIMA Ter"za ri"ma. Etym: [It., a third or triple rhyme.]  A peculiar and complicated system of versification, borrowed by the early Italian poets from the Troubadours. 

TERZETTO:  A composition in three voice parts; a vocal (rarely an instrumental) trio.  TESLA COIL; TESLA TRANSFORMER Tes"la coil, Tes"la trans*form"er. [After N. Tesla, American electrician.] (Elec.)  A transformer without iron, for high frequency alternating or oscillating currents; an oscillation transformer. 

TESSELAR:  Formed of tesseræ, as a mosaic. 

TESSELLATA:  A division of Crinoidea including numerous fossil species in which the body is covered with tessellated plates. 

TESSELLATE:  To form into squares or checkers; to lay with checkered work. The floors are sometimes of wood, tessellated after the fashion of France. Macaulay. 

TESSELLATE:  Tessellated. 

TESSELLATED:  Marked like a checkerboard; as, a tessellated leaf. 

TESSELLATION:  The act of tessellating; also, the mosaic work so formed. J. Forsyth. 

TESSERA:  A small piece of marble, glass, earthenware, or the like, having a square, or nearly square, face, used by the ancients for mosaic, as for making pavements, for ornamenting walls, and like purposes; also, a similar piece of ivory, bone, wood, etc., used as a ticket of admission to theaters, or as a certificate for successful gladiators, and as a token for various other purposes. Fairholt. 

TESSERAIC:  Diversified by squares; done in mosaic; tessellated. [Obs.] Sir R. Atkyns (1712). 

TESSERAL:  Isometric. 

TESSULAR:  Tesseral. 

TEST:  A cupel or cupelling hearth in which precious metals are melted for trial and refinement. Our ingots, tests, and many mo. Chaucer.  2. Examination or trial by the cupel; hence, any critical examination or decisive trial; as, to put a man's assertions to a test. "Bring me to the test." Shak.  3. Means of trial; as, absence is a test of love. Each test every light her muse will bear. Dryden.  4. That with which anything is compared for proof of its genuineness; a touchstone; a standard. Life, force, and beauty must to all impart, At once the source, and end, and test of art. Pope.  5. Discriminative characteristic; standard of judgment; ground of admission or exclusion. Our test excludes your tribe from benefit. Dryden.  6. Judgment; distinction; discrimination. Who would excel, when few can make a test Betwixt indifferent writing and the best Dryden.  7. (Chem.)  A reaction employed to recognize or distinguish any particular substance or constituent of a compound, as the production of some characteristic precipitate; also, the reagent employed to produce such reaction; thus, the ordinary test for sulphuric acid is the production of a white insoluble precipitate of barium sulphate by means of some soluble barium salt. Test act (Eng. Law), an act of the English Parliament prescribing a form of oath and declaration against transubstantiation, which all officers, civil and military, were formerly obliged to take within six months after their admission to office. They were obliged also to receive the sacrament according to the usage of the Church of England. Blackstone.  -- Test object (Optics), an object which tests the power or quality of a microscope or telescope, by requiring a certain degree of excellence in the instrument to determine its existence or its peculiar texture or markings.  -- Test paper. (a) (Chem.) Paper prepared for use in testing for certain substances by being saturated with a reagent which changes color in some specific way when acted upon by those substances; thus, litmus paper is turned red by acids, and blue by alkalies, turmeric paper is turned brown by alkalies, etc. (b) (Law) An instrument admitted as a standard or comparison of handwriting in those jurisdictions in which comparison of hands is permitted as a mode of proving handwriting.  -- Test tube. (Chem.) (a) A simple tube of thin glass, closed at one end, for heating solutions and for performing ordinary reactions. (b) A graduated tube.  Syn.  -- Criterion; standard; experience; proof; experiment; trial.  -- Test, Trial. Trial is the wider term; test is a searching and decisive trial. It is derived from the Latin testa (earthen pot), which term was early applied to the fining pot, or crucible, in which metals are melted for trial and refinement. Hence the peculiar force of the word, as indicating a trial or criterion of the most decisive kind. I leave him to your gracious acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his commediation. Shak. Thy virtue, prince, has stood the test of fortune, Like purest gold, that tortured in the furnace, Comes out more bright, and brings forth all its weight. Addison. 

TEST:  To refine, as gold or silver, in a test, or cupel; to subject to cupellation.  2. To put to the proof; to prove the truth, genuineness, or quality of by experiment, or by some principle or standard; to try; as, to test the soundness of a principle; to test the validity of an argument. Experience is the surest standard by which to test the real tendency of the existing constitution. Washington.  3. (Chem.)  To examine or try, as by the use of some reagent; as, to test a solution by litmus paper. 

TEST:  A witness. [Obs.] Prelates and great lords of England, who were for the more surety tests of that deed. Ld. Berners. 

TEST:  To make a testament, or will. [Obs.]  TEST; TESTA Test, Tes"ta, n.; pl. E. Tests, L. Testæ. Etym: [L. testa a piece of burned clay, a broken piece of earthenware, a shell. See Test a cupel.]  1. (Zoöl.)  The external hard or firm covering of many invertebrate animals.  Note: The test of crustaceans and insects is composed largely of chitin; in mollusks it is composed chiefly of calcium carbonate, and is called the shell.  2. (Bot.)  The outer integument of a seed; the episperm, or spermoderm. 

TESTACEA:  Invertebrate animals covered with shells, especially mollusks; shellfish. 

TESTACEAN:  Onr of the Testacea. 

TESTACEOGRAPHY:  The science which treats of testaceans, or shellfish; the description of shellfish. [R.] 

TESTACEOLOGY:  The science of testaceous mollusks; conchology. [R.] 

TESTACEOUS:  Having a dull red brick color or a brownish yellow color. Testaceous animals (Zoöl.), animals having a firm, calcareous shell, as oysters and clams, thus distinguished from crustaceous animals, whose shells are more thin and soft, and consist of several joints, or articulations, as lobsters and crabs. 

TESTACY:  The state or circumstance of being testate, or of leaving a valid will, or testament, at death. 

TESTAMENT:  A solemn, authentic instrument in writing, by which a person declares his will as to disposal of his estate and effects after his death.  Note: This is otherwise called a will, and sometimes a last will and testament. A testament, to be valid, must be made by a person of sound mind; and it must be executed and published in due form of law. A man, in certain cases, may make a valid will by word of mouth only. See Nuncupative will, under Nuncupative.  2. One of the two distinct revelations of God's purposes toward man; a covenant; also, one of the two general divisions of the canonical books of the sacred Scriptures, in which the covenants are respectively revealed; as, the Old Testament; the New Testament; -- often limited, in colloquial language, to the latter. He is the mediator of the new testament . . . for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament. Heb. ix. 15. Holographic testament, a testament written wholly by the testator himself. Bouvier. 

TESTAMENTAL:  Of or pertaining to a testament; testamentary. Thy testamental cup I take, And thus remember thee. J. Montgomery. 

TESTAMENTATION:  The act or power of giving by testament, or will. [R.] Burke. 

TESTAMENTIZE:  To make a will. [Obs.] Fuller. 

TESTAMUR:  A certificate of merit or proficiency; -- so called from the Latin words, Ita testamur, with which it commences. 

TESTATE:  Having made and left a will; as, a person is said to die testate. Ayliffe. 

TESTATE:  One who leaves a valid will at death; a testate person. [R.] 

TESTATION:  A witnessing or witness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

TESTATOR:  A man who makes and leaves a will, or testament, at death. 

TESTATRIX:  A woman who makes and leaves a will at death; a female testator. 

TESTER:  An old French silver coin, originally of the value of about eighteen pence, subsequently reduced to ninepence, and later to sixpence, sterling. Hence, in modern English slang, a sixpence; -- often contracted to tizzy. Called also teston. Shak. 

TESTERN:  A sixpence; a tester. [Obs.] 

TESTERN:  To present with a tester. [Obs.] Shak. 

TESTES:  pl. of Teste, or of Testis. 

TESTICARDINES:  A division of brachiopods including those which have a calcareous shell furnished with a hinge and hinge teeth. Terebratula and Spirifer are examples. 

TESTICLE:  One of the essential male genital glands which secrete the semen. 

TESTICOND:  Having the testicles naturally concealed, as in the case of the cetaceans. 

TESTICULAR:  Of or pertaining to the testicle. 

TESTIERE:  A piece of plate armor for the head of a war horse; a tester. 

TESTIF:  Testy; headstrong; obstinate. [Obs.] Testif they were and lusty for to play. Chaucer. 

TESTIFICATION:  The act of testifying, or giving testimony or evidence; as, a direct testification of our homage to God. South. 

TESTIFICATOR:  A testifier. 

TESTIFIER:  One who testifies; one who gives testimony, or bears witness to prove anything; a witness. 

TESTIFY:  To make a solemn declaration under oath or affirmation, for the purpose of establishing, or making proof of, some fact to a court; to give testimony in a cause depending before a tribunal. One witness shall not testify against any person to cause him to die. Num. xxxv. 30.  3. To declare a charge; to protest; to give information; to bear witness; -- with against. O Israel, . . . I will testify against thee. Ps. l. 7. I testified against them in the day wherein they sold victuals. Neh. xiii. 15. 

TESTIFY:  To affirm or declare under oath or affirmation before a tribunal, in order to prove some fact. 

TESTIFY:  In a testy manner; fretfully; peevishly; with petulance. 

TESTIMONIAL:  Relating to, or containing, testimony. 

TESTIMONY:  The two tables of the law. Thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee. Ex. xxv. 16.  6. Hence, the whole divine revelation; the sacre The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Ps. xix. 7.  Syn.  -- Proof; evidence; attestation; witness; affirmation; confirmation; averment.  -- Testimony, Proof, Evidence. Proof is the most familiar, and is used more frequently (though not exclusively) of facts and things which occur in the ordinary concerns of life. Evidence is a word of more dignity, and is more generally applied to that which is moral or intellectual; as, the evidences of Christianity, etc. Testimony is what is deposed to by a witness on oath or affirmation. When used figuratively or in a wider sense, the word testimony has still a reference to some living agent as its author, as when we speak of the testimony of conscience, or of doing a thing in testimony of our affection, etc. Testimony refers rather to the thing declared, evidence to its value or effect. "To conform our language more to common use, we ought to divide arguments into demonstrations, proofs, and probabilities; ba proofs, meaning such arguments from experience as leave no room for doubt or opposition." Hume. "The evidence of sense is the first and highest kind of evidence of which human nature is capable." Bp. Wilkins. "The proof of everything must be by the testimony of such as the parties produce." Spenser. 

TESTIMONY:  To witness; to attest; to prove by testimony. [Obs.] Shak. 

TESTINESS:  The quality or state of being testy; fretfulness; petulance. Testiness is a disposition or aptness to be angry. Locke. 

TESTING:  The operation of refining gold or silver in a test, or cupel; cupellation. Testing machine (Engin.), a machine used in the determination of the strength of materials, as iron, stone, etc., and their behavior under strains of various kinds, as elongation, bending, crushing, etc. 

TESTIS:  A testicle. 

TESTON:  A tester; a sixpence. [Obs.] 

TESTONE:  A silver coin of Portugal, worth about sixpence sterling, or about eleven cents. Homans. 

TESTOON:  An Italian silver coin. The testoon of Rome is worth 1s. 3d. sterling, or about thirty cents. Homans. 

TESTUDINAL:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a tortoise. 

TESTUDINARIOUS:  Of or pertaining to the shell of a tortoise; resembling a tortoise shell; having the color or markings of a tortoise shell. 

TESTUDINATA:  An order of reptiles which includes the turtles and tortoises. The body is covered by a shell consisting of an upper or dorsal shell, called the carapace, and a lower or ventral shell, called the plastron, each of which consists of several plates.  TESTUDINATE; TESTUDINATED Tes*tu"di*nate, Tes*tu"di*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. testudinatus, fr. testudo, -inis, a tortoise, an arch or vault.]  Resembling a tortoise shell in appearance or structure; roofed; arched; vaulted. 

TESTUDINEOUS:  Resembling the shell of a tortoise. 

TESTUDO:  A genus of tortoises which formerly included a large number of diverse forms, but is now restricted to certain terrestrial species, such as the European land tortoise (Testudo Græca) and the gopher of the Southern United States.  2. (Rom. Antiq.)  A cover or screen which a body of troops formed with their shields or targets, by holding them over their heads when standing close to each other. This cover resembled the back of a tortoise, and served to shelter the men from darts, stones, and other missiles. A similar defense was sometimes formed of boards, and moved on wheels.  3. (Mus.)  A kind of musical instrument. a species of lyre; -- so called in allusion to the lyre of Mercury, fabled to have been made of the shell of a tortoise. 

TESTY:  Fretful; peevish; petulant; easily irritated. Must I observe you must I stand and crouch Under your testy humor Shak. I was displeased with myself; I was testy. Latimer. 

TETANIC:  Of or pertaining to tetanus; having the character of tetanus; as, a tetanic state; tetanic contraction. This condition of muscle, this fusion of a number of simple spasms into an apparently smooth, continuous effort, is known as tetanus, or tetanic contraction. Foster.  2. (Physiol. & Med.)  Producing, or tending to produce, tetanus, or tonic contraction of the muscles; as, a tetanic remedy. See Tetanic, n. 

TETANIC:  A substance (notably nux vomica, strychnine, and brucine) which, either as a remedy or a poison, acts primarily on the spinal cord, and which, when taken in comparatively large quantity, produces tetanic spasms or convulsions. 

TETANIN:  A poisonous base (ptomaine) formed in meat broth through the agency of a peculiar microbe from the wound of a person who has died of tetanus; -- so called because it produces tetanus as one of its prominent effects. 

TETANIZATION:  The production or condition of tetanus. 

TETANIZE:  To throw, as a muscle, into a state of permanent contraction; to cause tetanus in. See Tetanus, n., 2. 

TETANOID:  Resembling tetanus. 

TETANOMOTOR:  An instrument from tetanizing a muscle by irritating its nerve by successive mechanical shocks. 

TETANUS:  A painful and usually fatal disease, resulting generally from a wound, and having as its principal symptom persistent spasm of the voluntary muscles. When the muscles of the lower jaw are affected, it is called locked-jaw, or lickjaw, and it takes various names from the various incurvations of the body resulting from the spasm.  2. (Physiol.)  That condition of a muscle in which it is in a state of continued vibratory contraction, as when stimulated by a series of induction shocks. 

TETANY:  A morbid condition resembling tetanus, but distinguished from it by being less severe and having intermittent spasms. 

TETARD:  A gobioid fish (Eleotris gyrinus) of the Southern United States; -- called also sleeper. 

TETARTOHEDRAL:  Having one fourth the number of planes which are requisite to complete symmetry.  -- Te*tar`to*he"dral*ly, adv. 

TETARTOHEDRISM:  The property of being tetartohedral. 

TETAUG:  See Tautog. [R.] 

TETCHINESS:  See Techiness. 

TETCHY:  See Techy. Shak. 

TETE:  A kind of wig; false hair.  TETE-A-TETE Tête`-à-tête", n. Etym: [F., head to head. See Tester a covering, Test a cupel.]  1. Private conversation; familiar interview or conference of two persons.  2. A short sofa intended to accomodate two persons.  TETE-A-TETE Tête`-à-tête", a.  Private; confidential; familiar. She avoided tête-à-tête walks with him. C. Kingsley.  TETE-A-TETE Tête`-à-tête", adv.  Face to face; privately or confidentially; familiarly. Prior.  TETE-DE-PONT Tête`-de-pont", n.; pl. Têtes-de-pont. Etym: [F., head of a bridge.] (Mil.)  A work thrown up at the end of a bridge nearest the enemy, for covering the communications across a river; a bridgehead. 

TETEL:  A large African antelope (Alcejaphus tora). It has widely divergent, strongly ringed horns. 

TETHER:  A long rope or chain by which an animal is fastened, as to a stake, so that it can range or feed only within certain limits. 

TETHER:  To confine, as an animal, with a long rope or chain, as for feeding within certain limits. And by a slender cord was tethered to a stone. Wordsworth.  TETHER-BALL Teth"er-ball`, n.  A game played with rackets and a ball suspended by a string from an upright pole, the object of each side being to wrap the string around the pole by striking the ball in a direction opposite to the other. 

TETHYDAN:  A tunicate. 

TETHYODEA:  A division of Tunicata including the common attached ascidians, both simple and compound. Called also Tethioidea. 

TETHYS:  A genus of a large naked mollusks having a very large, broad, fringed cephalic disk, and branched dorsal gills. Some of the species become a foot long and are brilliantly colored.  TETRA- Tet"ra-. Etym: [Gr. Four.]  1. A combining form or prefix signifying four, as in tetrabasic, tetrapetalous.  2. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting four proportional or combining parts of the substance or ingredient denoted by the term to which it is prefixed, as in tetra-chloride, tetroxide. 

TETRABASIC:  Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monacid base; having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by bases; quadribasic; -- said of certain acids; thus, normal silicic acid, Si(OH)4, is a tetrabasic acid. 

TETRABORIC:  Same as Pyroboric. 

TETRABRANCHIATA:  An order of Cephalopoda having four gills. Among living species it includes only the pearly nautilus. Numerous genera and species are found in the fossil state, such as Ammonites, Baculites, Orthoceras, etc. 

TETRABRANCHIATE:  Of or pertaining to the Tetrabranchiata.  -- n.  One of the Tetrabranchiata. 

TETRACARPEL:  Composed of four carpels. 

TETRACHORD:  A scale series of four sounds, of which the extremes, or first and last, constituted a fourth. These extremes were immutable; the two middle sounds were changeable. 

TETRACHOTOMOUS:  Having a division by fours; separated into four parts or series, or into series of fours. 

TETRACID:  Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monobasic acid; having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement ba acids or acid atoms; -- said of certain bases; thus, erythrine, C4H6(OH)4, is a tetracid alcohol. 

TETRACOCCOUS:  Having four cocci, or carpels. 

TETRACOLON:  A stanza or division in lyric poetry, consisting of four verses or lines. Crabb. 

TETRACORALLA:  Same as Rugosa. 

TETRACTINELLID:  Any species of sponge of the division Tetractinellida. Also used adjectively. 

TETRACTINELLIDA:  A division of Spongiæ in which the spicules are siliceous and have four branches diverging at right angles. Called also Tetractinellinæ. 

TETRAD:  A tetravalent or quadrivalent atom or radical; as, carbon is a tetrad.  TETRADACTYL; TETRADACTYLE Tet`ra*dac"tyl, Tet`ra*dac"tyle, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tétradactyle.] (Zoöl.)  Tetradactylous. 

TETRADACTYLOUS:  Having, or characterized by, four digits to the foot or hand. 

TETRADECANE:  A light oily hydrocarbon, C14H30, of the marsh-gas series; -- so called from the fourteen carbon atoms in the molecule. 

TETRADECAPODA:  Same as Arthrostraca. 

TETRADIC:  Of or pertaining to a tetrad; possessing or having the characteristics of a tetrad; as, a carbon is a tetradic element. 

TETRADITE:  A person in some way remarkable with regard to the number four, as one born on the fourth day of the month, or one who reverenced four persons in the Godhead. Smart. 

TETRADON:  See Tetrodon. 

TETRADONT:  See Tetrodont.  TETRADRACHM; TETRADRACHMA Tet"ra*drachm, Tet`ra*drach"ma, n. Etym: [NL. tetradrachma, fr. Gr. Tetra-) +  A silver coin among the ancient Greeks, of the value of four drachms. The Attic tetradrachm was equal to 3s. 3d. sterling, or about 76 cents. 

TETRADYMITE:  A telluride of bismuth. It is of a pale steel-gray color and metallic luster, and usually occurs in foliated masses. Calles also telluric bismuth. 

TETRADYNAMIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having six stamens, four of which are longer than the others. 

TETRADYNAMIAN:  A plant of the order Tetradynamia.  TETRADYNAMIAN; TETRADYNAMOUS Tet`ra*dy*na"mi*an, Tet`ra*dyn"a*mous, a. (Bot.)  Belonging to the order Tetradynamia; having six stamens, four of which are uniformly longer than the others. 

TETRAGON:  A plane figure having four sides and angles; a quadrangle, as a square, a rhombus, etc.  2. (Astrol.)  An aspect of two planets with regard to the earth when they are distant from each other ninety degrees, or the fourth of a circle. Hutton. 

TETRAGONAL:  Of or pertaining to a tetragon; having four angles or sides; thus, the square, the parallelogram, the rhombus, and the trapezium are tetragonal fingers.  2. (Bot.)  Having four prominent longitudinal angles.  3. (Crystallog.)  Designating, or belonging to, a certain system of crystallization; dimetric. See Tetragonal system, under Crystallization. 

TETRAGRAMMATON:  The mystic number four, which was often symbolized to represent the Deity, whose name was expressed by four letters among some ancient nations; as, the Hebrew JeHoVaH, Greek qeo`s, Latin deus, etc. 

TETRAGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants having four styles.  TETRAGYNIAN; TETRAGYNOUS Tet`ra*gyn"i*an, Te*trag"y*nous, a. (Bot.)  Belonging to the order Tetragynia; having four styles. 

TETRAHEDRALLY:  In a tetrahedral manner. 

TETRAHEDRITE:  A sulphide of antimony and copper, with small quantities of other metals. It is a very common ore of copper, and some varieties yield a considerable presentage of silver. Called also gray copper ore, fahlore, and panabase. 

TETRAHEDRON:  A solid figure inclosed or bounded by four triangles.  Note: In crystallography, the regular tetrahedron is regarded as the hemihedral form of the regular octahedron. Regular tetrahedron (Geom.), a solid bounded by four equal equilateral triangles; one of the five regular solids. 

TETRAHEXAHEDRAL:  Pertaining to a tetrahexahedron. 

TETRAHEXAHEDRON:  A solid in the isometric system, bounded by twenty-four equal triangular faces, four corresponding to each face of the cube. 

TETRAKISHEXAHEDRON:  A tetrahexahedron. 

TETRAKOSANE:  A hydrocarbon, C24H50, resembling paraffin, and like it belonging to the marsh-gas series; -- so called from having twenty- four atoms of carbon in the molecule. 

TETRALOGY:  A group or series of four dramatic pieces, three tragedies and one satyric, or comic, piece (or sometimes four tragedies), represented consequently on the Attic stage at the Dionysiac festival.  Note: A group or series of three tragedies, exhibited together without a fourth piese, was called a trilogy. 

TETRAMERA:  A division of Coleoptera having, apparently, only four tarsal joints, one joint being rudimentary. 

TETRAMEROUS:  Having the parts arranged in sets of four; as, a tetramerous flower.  2. (Zoöl.)  Having four joints in each of the tarsi; -- said of certain insects. 

TETRAMETER:  A verse or line consisting of four measures, that is, in iambic, trochaic, and anapestic verse, of eight feet; in other kinds of verse, of four feet. 

TETRAMORPH:  The union of the four attributes of the Evangelists in one figure, which is represented as winged, and standing on winged fiery wheels, the wings being covered with eyes. The representations of it are evidently suggested by the vision of Ezekiel (ch. i.) 

TETRANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having four stamens.  TETRANDRIAN; TETRANDROUS Te*tran"dri*an, Te*tran"drous, a. (Bot.)  Belonging to the class Tetrandria. 

TETRAONID:  A bird belonging to the tribe of which the genus Tetrao is the type, as the grouse, partridge, quail, and the like. Used also adjectively. 

TETRAPETALOUS:  Containing four distinct petals, or flower leaves; as, a tetrapetalous corolla.  TETRAPHARMACOM; TETRAPHARMACUM Tet`ra*phar"ma*com, Tet`ra*phar"ma*cum, n. Etym: [NL. tetrapharmacon, L. tetrapharmacum, Gr. Tetra-) + (Med.)  A combination of wax, resin, lard, and pitch, composing an ointment. Brande & C. 

TETRAPHENOL:  Furfuran. [Obs.] 

TETRAPHYLLOUS:  Having four leaves; consisting of four distinct leaves or leaflets. 

TETRAPLA:  A Bible consisting of four different Greek versions arranged in four columns by Origen; hence, any version in four languages or four columns. 

TETRAPNEUMONA:  A division of Arachnida including those spiders which have four lungs, or pulmonary sacs. It includes the bird spiders (Mygale) and the trapdoor spiders. See Mygale. 

TETRAPNUEMONIAN:  One of the Tetrapneumona. 

TETRAPOD:  An insect characterized by having but four perfect legs, as certain of the butterflies. 

TETRAPODY:  A set of four feet; a measure or distance of four feet. 

TETRAPTERAN:  An insect having four wings. 

TETRAPTEROUS:  Having four wings. 

TETRAPTOTE:  A noun that has four cases only. Andrews. 

TETRARCH:  A Roman governor of the fourth part of a province; hence, any subordinate or dependent prince; also, a petty king or sovereign. 

TETRARCH:  Four. [Obs.] Fuller. 

TETRARCHATE:  A tetrarchy. 

TETRARCHICAL:  Of or pertaining to a tetrarch or tetrarchy. Bolingbroke. 

TETRARCHY:  The district under a Roman tetrarch; the office or jurisdiction of a tetrarch; a tetrarchate. 

TETRASCHISTIC:  Characterized by division into four parts. 

TETRASEPALOUS:  Having four sepals. 

TETRASPASTON:  A machine in which four pulleys act together. Brande & C. 

TETRASPERMOUS:  Having four seeds. Tetraspermous plant, a plant which produces four seeds in each flower. 

TETRASPORE:  A nonsexual spore, one of a group of four regularly occurring in red seaweeds.  -- Tet`ra*spor"ic, a. 

TETRASTICH:  A stanza, epigram, or poem, consisting of four verses or lines. Pope. 

TETRASTYLE:  Having four columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, or colonnade.  -- n.  A tetrastyle building.  TETRASYLLABIC; TETRASYLLABICAL Tet`ra*syl*lab"ic, Tet`ra*syl*lab"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tétrasyllabique.]  Consisting of, or having, four syllables; quadrisyllabic. 

TETRASYLLABLE:  A word consisting of four syllables; a quadrisyllable. 

TETRATHECAL:  Having four loculaments, or thecæ. 

TETRATHIONATE:  A salt of tetrathionic acid. 

TETRATHIONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a thionic derivative, H 

TETRAVALENCE:  The quality or state of being tetravalent; quadrivalence. 

TETRAVALENT:  Having a valence of four; tetratomic; quadrivalent. 

TETRAXILE:  Having four branches diverging at right angles; -- said of certain spicules of sponges.  TETRAZINE; TETRAZIN Tet*raz"ine, n. Also -in. [Tetrazo- + -ine.] (Chem.)  A hypothetical compound, C2H2N4 which  may be regarded as benzene with four CH groups replaced by nitrogen atoms; also, any of various derivatives of the same. There are three isomeric varieties.  TETRAZO- Tet*raz"o-, a. Etym: [Tetra- + azo-.] (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively), designating any one of a series of double derivatives of the azo and diazo compounds containing four atoms of nitrogen. 

TETRAZOLE:  A crystalline acid substance, CH2N4, which may be regarded as pyrrol in which nitrogen atoms replace three CH groups; also, any of various derivatives of the same. 

TETRAZONE:  Any one of a certain series of basic compounds containing a chain of four nitrogen atoms; for example, ethyl tetrazone, (C2H5)2N.N2.N(C2H5)2, a colorless liquid having an odor of leeks.  TETRIC; TETRICAL Tet"ric, Tet"ri*cal, a. Etym: [L. tetricus, taetricus, from teter, taeter, offensive, foul.]  Forward; perverse; harsh; sour; rugged. [Obs.] -- Tet"ric*al*ness, n. 

TETRICITY:  Crabbedness; perverseness. [Obs.] 

TETRICOUS:  Tetric. [Obs.] 

TETRINIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex ketonic acid, C5H6O3, obtained as a white crystalline substance; -- so called because once supposed to contain a peculiar radical of four carbon atoms. Called also acetyl-acrylic acid. 

TETRODON:  Any one of numerous species of plectognath fishes belonging to Tetrodon and allied genera. Each jaw is furnished with two large, thick, beaklike, bony teeth. [Written also tetradon.]  Note: The skin is usually spinous, and the belly is capable of being greatly distended by air or water. It includes the swellfish, puffer (a), and similar species. 

TETRODONT:  Of or pertaining to the tetrodons.  -- n.  A tetrodon. [Written also tetradont, and tetraodont.] 

TETROL:  A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H4, analogous to benzene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule. Tetrol phenol, furfuran. [Obs.] 

TETROLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C3H3.CO2H, of the acetylene series, homologous with propiolic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance. 

TETROSE:  A monosaccharide derived from a certain alcohol. 

TETROXIDE:  An oxide having four atoms of oxygen in the molecule; a quadroxide; as, osmium tetroxide, OsO. 

TETRYL:  Butyl; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule. 

TETRYLENE:  Butylene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule. 

TETTER:  A vesicular disease of the skin; herpes. See Herpes. Honeycomb tetter (Med.), favus.  -- Moist tetter (Med.), eczema.  -- Scaly tetter (Med.), psoriasis. Tetter berry (Bot.), the white bryony. 

TETTER:  To affect with tetter. Shak. 

TETTEROUS:  Having the character of, or pertaining to, tetter.  TETTER-TOTTER Tet"ter-tot`ter, n. Etym: [See Teeter.]  A certain game of children; seesaw; -- called also titter- totter, and titter-cum-totter. 

TETTERWORT:  A plant used as a remedy for tetter, -- in England the calendine, in America the bloodroot. 

TETTIGONIAN:  Any one of numerous species of Hemiptera belonging to Tettigonia and allied genera; a leaf hopper. 

TETTISH:  Captious; testy. [Written also teatish.] [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

TETTIX:  The cicada. [Obs. or R.]  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of small grasshoppers. 

TETTY:  Testy; irritable. [Obs.] Burton. 

TEUFIT:  The lapwing; -- called also teuchit. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEUK:  The redshank. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEUTONIC:  The language of the ancient Germans; the Teutonic languages, collectively. 

TEUTONICISM:  A mode of speech peculiar to the Teutons; a Teutonic idiom, phrase, or expression; a Teutonic mode or custom; a Germanism. 

TEW:  To work hard; to strive; to fuse. [Local] 

TEW:  To tow along, as a vessel. [Obs.] Drayton. 

TEW:  A rope or chain for towing a boat; also, a cord; a string. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

TEWAN:  A tribe of American Indians including many of the Pueblos of New Mexico and adjacent regions. 

TEWED:  Fatigued; worn with labor or hardship. [Obs. or Local] Mir. for Mag. 

TEWHIT:  The lapwing; -- called also teewheep. [Prov. Eng.] 

TEWTAW:  To beat; to break, as flax or hemp. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

TEXAS:  A structure on the hurricane deck of a steamer, containing the pilot house, officers' cabins, etc. [Western U.S.] Knight.  TEXAS LEAGUER Tex"as Leagu"er. [From the Texas (baseball) League.] (Baseball)  A short fly that falls too far out to be handled by an infielder and too close in to be caught by an outfielder. [Cant] 

TEXT:  The four Gospels, by way of distinction or eminence. [R.]  3. A verse or passage of Scripture, especially one chosen as the subject of a sermon, or in proof of a doctrine. How oft, when Paul has served us with a text, Has Epictetus, Plato, Tully, preached! Cowper.  4. Hence, anything chosen as the subject of an argument, literary composition, or the like; topic; theme.  5. A style of writing in large characters; text-hand also, a kind of type used in printing; as, German text. Text blindness. (Physiol.) See Word blindness, under Word.  -- Text letter, a large or capital letter. [Obs.] -- Text pen, a kind of metallic pen used in engrossing, or in writing text-hand. 

TEXT:  To write in large characters, as in text hand. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  TEXT-BOOK Text"-book`, n.  1. A book with wide spaces between the lines, to give room for notes.  2. A volume, as of some classical author, on which a teacher lectures or comments; hence, any manual of instruction; a schoolbook.  TEXT-HAND Text"-hand`, n.  A large hand in writing; -- so called because it was the practice to write the text of a book in a large hand and the notes in a smaller hand.  TEXT HAND Text hand.  A large hand in writing; -- so called because it was the practice to write the text of a book in a large hand and the notes in a smaller hand. 

TEXTILE:  Pertaining to weaving or to woven fabrics; as, textile arts; woven, capable of being woven; formed by weaving; as, textile fabrics. Textile cone (Zoöl.), a beautiful cone shell (Conus textilis) in which the colors are arranged so that they resemble certain kinds of cloth. 

TEXTILE:  That which is, or may be, woven; a fabric made by weaving. Bacon. 

TEXTMAN:  One ready in quoting texts. [R.] Bp. Sanderston. 

TEXTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to weaving. T. Warton. 

TEXTRINE:  Of or pertaining to weaving, textorial; as, the textrine art. Denham. 

TEXTUALIST:  A textman; a textuary. Lightfoot. 

TEXTUALLY:  In a textual manner; in the text or body of a work; in accordance with the text. 

TEXTUARIST:  A textuary. [R.] 

TEXTUEL:  Textual. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TEXTUIST:  A textualist; a textman. [Obs.] The crabbed textualists of his time. Milton. 

TEXTURAL:  Of or pertaining to texture. 

TEXTURE:  A tissue. See Tissue. 

TEXTURE:  To form a texture of or with; to interweave. [R.] 

TEXTURY:  The art or process of weaving; texture. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TEYNE:  A thin plate of metal. [Obs.] "A teyne of silver." Chaucer. 

TH:  In Old English, the article the, when the following word began with a vowel, was often written with elision as if a part of the word. Thus in Chaucer, the forms thabsence, tharray, thegle, thend, thingot, etc., are found for the absence, the array, the eagle, the end, etc.  THACK; THACKER Thack, Thack"er.  See Thatch, Thatcher. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

THAK:  To thwack. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THALAMENCEPHALON:  The segment of the brain next in front of the midbrain, including the thalami, pineal gland, and pituitary body; the diencephalon; the interbrain. 

THALAMIC:  Of or pertaining to a thalamus or to thalami.  THALAMIFLORAL; THALAMIFLOROUS Thal`a*mi*flo"ral, Thal`a*mi*flo"rous, a. Etym: [See Thalamus, and Floral.] (Bot.)  Bearing the stamens directly on the receptacle; -- said of a subclass of polypetalous dicotyledonous plants in the system of De Candolle. 

THALAMOCOELE:  The cavity or ventricle of the thalamencephalon; the third ventricle. 

THALAMOPHORA:  Same as Foraminifera. 

THALAMUS:  A mass of nervous matter on either side of the third ventricle of the brain; -- called also optic thalamus.  2. (Bot.) (a) Same as Thallus. (b) The receptacle of a flower; a torus. 

THALASSIAN:  Any sea tortoise. 

THALASSIC:  Of or pertaining to the sea; -- sometimes applied to rocks formed from sediments deposited upon the sea bottom. 

THALASSINIAN:  Any species of Thalaassinidæ, a family of burrowing macrurous Crustacea, having a long and soft abdomen. 

THALASSOGRAPHY:  The study or science of the life of marine organisms. Agassiz. 

THALER:  A German silver coin worth about three shillings sterling, or about 73 cents. 

THALIACEA:  A division of Tunicata comprising the free-swimming species, such as Salpa and Doliolum. 

THALIAN:  Of or pertaining to Thalia; hence, of or pertaining to comedy; comic. 

THALLATE:  A salt of a hypothetical thallic acid. 

THALLENE:  A hydrocarbon obtained from coal-tar residues, and remarkable for its intense yellowish green fluorescence. 

THALLIC:  Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with the thallous compounds; as, thallic oxide. 

THALLINE:  Consisting of a thallus. 

THALLINE:  An artificial alkaloid of the quinoline series, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C10H13NO, whose salts are valuable as antipyretics; -- so called from the green color produced in its solution by certain oxidizing agents. 

THALLIOUS:  See Thallous. 

THALLIUM:  A rare metallic element of the aluminium group found in some minerals, as certain pyrites, and also in the lead-chamber deposit in the manufacture of sulphuric acid. It is isolated as a heavy, soft, bluish white metal, easily oxidized in moist air, but preserved by keeping under water. Symbol Tl. Atomic weight 203.7. 

THALLOGEN:  One of a large class or division of the vegetable kingdom, which includes those flowerless plants, such as fungi, algæ, and lichens, that consist of a thallus only, composed of cellular tissue, or of a congeries of cells, or even of separate cells, and never show a distinction into root, stem, and leaf. 

THALLOID:  Resembling, or consisting of, thallus. 

THALLOPHYTA:  A phylum of plants of very diverse habit and structure, including the algæ, fungi, and lichens. The simpler forms, as many blue-green algæ, yeasts, etc., are unicellular and reproduce vegetatively or  by means of asexual spores; in the higher forms the plant body is a thallus, which may be filamentous or may consist of plates of cells; it is commonly undifferentiated into stem, leaves, and roots, and shows no distinct tissue systems; the fronds of many algæ, however, are modified to serve many of the functions of the above-named organs. Both asexual and sexual reproduction, often of a complex type, occur in these forms. The Thallophyta exist almost exclusively as gametophytes, the sporophyte being absent or rudimentary. By those who do not separate the Myxophyta from the Tallophyta as a distinct phylum the latter is treated as the lowermost group in the vegetable kingdom. 

THALLOPHYTE:  Same as Thallogen. 

THALLOUS:  Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with the thallic compounds. [Written also thallious.] 

THALLUS:  A solid mass of cellular tissue, consisting of one or more layers, usually in the form of a flat stratum or expansion, but sometimes erect or pendulous, and elongated and branching, and forming the substance of the thallogens. 

THAMNOPHILE:  A bush shrike. 

THAMYN:  An Asiatic deer (Rucervus Eldi) resembling the swamp deer; -- called also Eld's deer. 

THAN:  A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want. Behold, a greater than Solomon is here. Matt. xii. 42. Which when Beelzebub perceived, than whom, Satan except, none higher sat. Milton. It's wiser being good than bad; It's safer being meek than fierce; It's fitter being sane than mad. R. Browning. 

THAN:  Then. See Then. [Obs.] Gower. Thanne longen folk to gon on pilgrimages. Chaucer. 

THANA:  A police station. [India] Kipling. 

THANAGE:  The district in which a thane anciently had jurisdiction; thanedom. 

THANATOID:  Deathlike; resembling death. Dunglison. 

THANATOLOGY:  A description, or the doctrine, of death. Dunglison. 

THANATOPSIS:  A view of death; a meditation on the subject of death. Bryant. 

THANE:  A dignitary under the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England. Of these there were two orders, the king's thanes, who attended the kings in their courts and held lands immediately of them, and the ordinary thanes, who were lords of manors and who had particular jurisdiction within their limits. After the Conquest, this title was disused, and baron took its place.  Note: Among the ancient Scots, thane was a title of honor, which seems gradually to have declined in its significance. Jamieson. 

THANEDOM:  The property or jurisdiction of a thane; thanage. Sir W. Scott. 

THANEHOOD:  The character or dignity of a thane; also, thanes, collectively. J. R. Green. 

THANESHIP:  The state or dignity of a thane; thanehood; also, the seignioralty of a thane. 

THANK:  A expression of gratitude; an acknowledgment expressive of a sense of favor or kindness received; obligation, claim, or desert, or gratitude; -- now generally used in the plural. "This ceremonial thanks." Massinger. If ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye for sinners also do even the same. Luke vi. 33. What great thank, then, if any man, reputed wise and constant, will neither do, nor permit others under his charge to do, that which he approves not, especially in matter of sin Milton. Thanks, thanks to thee, most worthy friend, For the lesson thou hast taught. Longfellow. His thanks, Her thanks, etc., of his or her own accord; with his or her good will; voluntary. [Obs.] Full sooth is said that love ne lordship, Will not, his thanks, have no fellowship. Chaucer. -- In thank, with thanks or thankfulness. [Obs.] -- Thank offering, an offering made as an expression of thanks. 

THANK:  To express gratitude to (anyone) for a favor; to make acknowledgments to (anyone) for kindness bestowed; -- used also ironically for blame. "Graunt mercy, lord, that thank I you," quod she. Chaucer. I thank thee for thine honest care. Shak. Weigh the danger with the doubtful bliss, And thank yourself if aught should fall amiss. Dryden. 

THANKLY:  Thankfully. [Obs.] Sylvester (Du Bartas). 

THANKSGIVE:  To give or dedicate in token of thanks. [Obs. or R.] Mede. 

THANKSGIVER:  One who gives thanks, or acknowledges a kindness. Barrow. 

THANKWORTHINESS:  The quality or state of being thankworthy. 

THANKWORTHY:  Deserving thanks; worthy of gratitude; mreitorious. For this thankworthy, if a man, for conscience toward God, endure grief, suffering wrongfully. 1 Pet. ii. 19. 

THAR:  A goatlike animal (Capra Jemlaica) native of the Himalayas. It has small, flattened horns, curved directly backward. The hair of the neck, shoulders, and chest of the male is very long, reaching to the knees. Called also serow, and imo. [Written also thaar, and tahr.] 

THAR:  It needs; need. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. What thar thee reck or care Chaucer. 

THARMS:  Twisted guts. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ascham. 

THAROS:  A small American butterfly (Phycoides tharos) having the upper surface of the wings variegated with orange and black, the outer margins black with small white crescents; -- called also pearl crescent. 

THATCH:  A name in the West Indies for several kinds of palm, the leaves of which are used for thatching. Thatch sparrow, the house sparrow. [Prov. Eng.] 

THATCH:  To cover with, or with a roof of, straw, reeds, or some similar substance; as, to thatch a roof, a stable, or a stack of grain. 

THATCHER:  One who thatches. 

THAUGHT:  See Thwart. 

THAUMATOLATRY:  Worship or undue admiration of wonderful or miraculous things. [R.] The thaumatolatry by which our theology has been debased for more than a century. Hare. 

THAUMATROPE:  An optical instrument or toy for showing the presistence of an impression upon the eyes after the luminous object is withdrawn.  Note: It consists of a card having on its opposite faces figures of two different objects, or halves of the same object, as a bird and a cage, which, when the card is whirled rapidlz round a diameter by the strings that hold it, appear to the eye combined in a single picture, as of a bird in its cage. 

THAUMATURGE:  A magician; a wonder worker. Lowell.  THAUMATURGIC; THAUMATURGICAL Thau`ma*tur"gic, Thau`ma*tur"gic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to thaumaturgy; magical; wonderful. Burton. 

THAUMATURGICS:  Feats of legerdemain, or magical performances. 

THAUMATURGIST:  One who deals in wonders, or believes in them; a wonder worker. Carlyle. 

THAUMATURGUS:  A miracle worker; -- a title given by the Roman Catholics to some saints. 

THAUMATURGY:  The act or art of performing something wonderful; magic; legerdemain. T. Warton. 

THAVE:  Same as Theave. [Prov. Eng.] 

THAW:  To cause (frozen things, as earth, snow, ice) to melt, soften, or dissolve. 

THAW:  The melting of ice, snow, or other congealed matter; the resolution of ice, or the like, into the state of a fluid; liquefaction by heat of anything congealed by frost; also, a warmth of weather sufficient to melt that which is congealed. Dryden. 

THAWY:  Liquefying by heat after having been frozen; thawing; melting. 

THE:  See Thee. [Obs.] Chaucer. Milton. 

THE:  A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.  Note: The was originally a demonstrative pronoun, being a weakened form of that. When placed before adjectives and participles, it converts them into abstract nouns; as, the sublime and the beautiful. Burke. The is used regularly before many proper names, as of rivers, oceans, ships, etc.; as, the Nile, the Atlantic, the Great Eastern, the West Indies, The Hague. The with an epithet or ordinal number often follows a proper name; as, Alexander the Great; Napoleon the Third. The may be employed to individualize a particular kind or species; as, the grasshopper shall be a burden. Eccl. xii. 5. 

THE:  By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform. "Yet not the more cease I." Milton. So much the rather thou, Celestial Light, Shine inward, and the mind through all her powers Irradiate. Milton. 

THEA:  A genus of plants found in China and Japan; the tea plant.  Note: It is now commonly referred to the genus camellia. 

THEANDRIC:  Relating to, or existing by, the union of divine and human operation in Christ, or the joint agency of the divine and human nature. Murdock.  THEANTHROPIC; THEANTHROPICAL The`an*throp"ic, The`an*throp"ic*al, a.  Partaking of, or combining, both divinity and humanity. [R.] The gorgeous and imposing figures of his [Homer's] theanthropic sytem. Gladstone. 

THEANTHROPIST:  One who advocates, or believes in, theanthropism. 

THEANTHROPY:  Theanthropism. 

THEARCHIC:  Divinely sovereign or supreme. [R.] He [Jesus] is the thearchic Intelligence. Milman. 

THEARCHY:  Government by God; divine sovereignty; theocracy.  THEATER; THEATRE The"a*ter, The"a*tre, n. Etym: [F. thé\'83tre, L. theatrum, Gr. dhya to meditate, think. Cf. Theory.]  1. An edifice in which dramatic performances or spectacles are exhibited for the amusement of spectators; anciently uncovered, except the stage, but in modern times roofed.  2. Any room adapted to the exhibition of any performances before an assembly, as public lectures, scholastic exercises, anatomical demonstrations, surgical operations, etc.  3. That which resembles a theater in form, use, or the like; a place rising by steps or gradations, like the seats of a theater. Burns. Shade above shade, a woody theater Of stateliest view. Milton.  4. A sphere or scheme of operation. [Obs.] For if a man can be partaker of God's theater, he shall likewise be partaker of God's rest. Bacon.  5. A place or region where great events are enacted; as, the theater of war.  THEATIN; THEATINE The"a*tin, The"a*tine, n. Etym: [F. théatin, It. theatino.] (R. C. Ch.)  1. One of an order of Italian monks, established in 1524, expressly to oppose Reformation, and to raise the tone of piety among Roman Catholics. They hold no property, nor do they beg, but depend on what Providence sends. Their chief employment is preaching and giving religious instruction.  Note: Their name is derived from Theate, or Chieti, a city of Naples, the archbishop of which was a principal founder of the order; but they bore various names; as, Regular Clerks of the Community, Pauline Monks, Apostolic Clerks, and Regular Clerks of the Divine Providence. The order never flourished much out of Italy.  2. (R. C. Ch.)  One of an order of nuns founded by Ursula Benincasa, who died in 1618. 

THEATRAL:  Of or pertaining to a theater; theatrical. [Obs.] 

THEATRIC:  Theatrical. Woods over woods in gay, theatric pride. Goldsmith. 

THEATRICAL:  Of or pertaining to a theater, or to the scenic representations; resembling the manner of dramatic performers; histrionic; hence, artificial; as, theatrical performances; theatrical gestures.  -- The*at`ri*cal"i*ty, n.  -- The*at"ric*al*ly, adv. No meretricious aid whatever has been called in -- no trick, no illusion of the eye, nothing theatrical. R. Jefferies. 

THEATRICALS:  Dramatic performances; especially, those produced by amateurs. Such fashionable cant terms as `theatricals,' and `musicals,' invented by the flippant Topham, still survive among his confraternity of frivolity. I. Disraeli. 

THEAVE:  A ewe lamb of the first year; also, a sheep three years old. [Written also thave.] [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

THEBAIC:  Of or pertaining to Thebes in Egypt; specifically, designating a version of the Bible preserved by the Copts, and esteemed of great value by biblical scholars. This version is also called the Sahidic version. 

THEBAID:  A Latin epic poem by Statius about Thebes in Boeotia. 

THEBAINE:  A poisonous alkaloid, C19H21NO3, found in opium in small quantities, having a sharp, astringent taste, and a tetanic action resembling that of strychnine. 

THEBAN:  Of or pertaining to Thebes. Theban year (Anc. Chron.), the Egyptian year of 365 days and 6 hours. J. Bryant. 

THEBAN:  A native or inhabitant of Thebes; also, a wise man. I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban. Shak. 

THECAL:  Of or pertaining to a theca; as, a thecal abscess. 

THECASPOROUS:  Having the spores in thecæ, or cases. 

THECATA:  Same as Thecophora. 

THECLA:  Any one of many species of small delicately colored butterflies belonging to Thecla and allied genera; -- called also hairstreak, and elfin. 

THECODACTYL:  Any one of a group of lizards of the Gecko tribe, having the toes broad, and furnished with a groove in which the claws can be concealed. 

THECODONT:  Having the teeth inserted in sockets in the alveoli of the jaws.  2. (Paleon.)  Of or pertaining to the thecodonts. 

THECODONT:  One of the Thecodontia. 

THECODONTIA:  A group of fossil saurians having biconcave vertebræ and the teeth implanted in sockets. 

THECOPHORA:  A division of hydroids comprising those which have the hydranths in thecæ and the gonophores in capsules. The campanularians and sertularians are examples. Called also Thecata. See Illust. under Hydroidea. 

THECOSOMATA:  An order of Pteropoda comprising those species which have a shell. See Pteropoda.  -- The`co*so"ma*tous, a. 

THEDOM:  Success; fortune; luck; chance. [Obs.] Evil thedom on his monk's snout. Chaucer. 

THEE:  To thrive; to prosper. [Obs.] "He shall never thee." Chaucer. Well mote thee, as well can wish your thought. Spenser. 

THEE:  The objective case of thou. See Thou.  Note: Thee is poetically used for thyself, as him for himself, etc. This sword hath ended him; so shall it thee, Unless thou yield thee as my prisoner. Shak. 

THEFT:  The act of stealing; specifically, the felonious taking and removing of personal property, with an intent to deprive the rightful owner of the same; larceny.  Note: To constitute theft there must be a taking without the owner's consent, and it must be unlawful or felonious; every part of the property stolen must be removed, however slightly, from its former position; and it must be, at least momentarily, in the complete possession of the thief. See Larceny, and the Note under Robbery.  2. The thing stolen. [R.] If the theft be certainly found in his hand alive, . . . he shall restore double. Ex. xxii. 4. 

THEFTBOTE:  The receiving of a man's goods again from a thief, or a compensation for them, by way of composition, with the intent that the thief shall escape punishment. 

THEGN:  Thane. See Thane. E. A. Freeman. 

THEGNHOOD:  Thanehood. E. A. Freeman. 

THEIFORM:  Having the form of tea. 

THEINE:  See Caffeine. Called also theina. 

THEIR:  The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country.  Note: The possessive takes the form theirs (theirs is best cultivated. Nothing but the name of zeal appears 'Twixt our best actions and the worst of theirs. Denham. 

THEISM:  The belief or acknowledgment of the existence of a God, as opposed to atheism, pantheism, or polytheism. 

THEIST:  One who believes in the existence of a God; especially, one who believes in a personal God; -- opposed to atheist.  THEISTIC; THEISTICAL The*is"tic, The*is"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to theism, or a theist; according to the doctrine of theists. 

THELPHUSIAN:  One of a tribe of fresh-water crabs which live in or on the banks of rivers in tropical countries. 

THELYTOKOUS:  Producing females only; -- said of certain female insects. 

THEM:  The objective case of they. See They. Go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. Matt. xxv. 9. Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father. Matt. xxv. 34.  Note: Them is poetically used for themselves, as him for himself, etc. Little stars may hide them when they list. Shak. 

THEMATIC:  Of or pertaining to the theme of a word. See Theme, n., 4.  2. (Mus.)  Of or pertaining to a theme, or subject. Thematic catalogue (Mus.), a catalogue of musical works which, besides the title and other particulars, gives in notes the theme, or first few measures, of the whole work or of its several movements. 

THEME:  A noun or verb, not modified by inflections; also, that part of a noun or verb which remains unchanged (except by euphonic variations) in declension or conjugation; stem.  5. That by means of which a thing is done; means; instrument. [Obs.] Swift.  6. (Mus.)  The leading subject of a composition or a movement. 

THEMIS:  The goddess of law and order; the patroness of existing rights. 

THEMSELVES:  The plural of himself, herself, and itself. See Himself, Herself, Itself. 

THENADAYS:  At that time; then; in those days; -- correlative to nowadays. [R.]  THENAL; THENAR The"nal, The"nar, a. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)  Of or pertaining to the thenar; corresponding to thenar; palmar. 

THENARDITE:  Anhydrous sodium sulphate, a mineral of a white or brown color and vitreous luster. 

THENCEFORTH:  From that time; thereafter. If the salt have lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted it is thenceforth good for nothing. Matt. v. 13.  Note: This word is sometimes preceded by from, -- a redundancy sanctioned by custom. Chaucer. John. xix. 12. 

THENCEFORWARD:  From that time onward; thenceforth. 

THENCEFROM:  From that place. [Obs.] 

THEOBROMA:  A genus of small trees. See Cacao. 

THEOBROMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid extracted from cacao butter (from the Theobroma Cacao), peanut oil (from Arachis hypogæa), etc., as a white waxy crystalline substance. 

THEOBROMINE:  An alkaloidal ureide, C7H8N4O2, homologous with and resembling caffeine, produced artificially, and also extracted from cacao and chocolate (from Theobroma Cacao) as a bitter white crystalline substance; -- called also dimethyl xanthine. 

THEOCHRISTIC:  Anointed by God. 

THEOCRASY:  An intimate union of the soul with God in contemplation, -- an ideal of the Neoplatonists and of some Oriental mystics. 

THEOCRAT:  One who lives under a theocratic form of government; one who in civil affairs conforms to divine law.  THEOCRATIC; THEOCRATICAL The`o*crat"ic, The`o*crat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. théocratique.]  Of or pertaining to a theocracy; administred by the immediate direction of God; as, the theocratical state of the Israelites. 

THEODOLITE:  An instrument used, especially in trigonometrical surveying, for the accurate measurement of horizontal angles, and also usually of vertical angles. It is variously constructed.  Note: The theodolite consists principally of a telescope, with cross wires in the focus of its object glass, clamped in Y's attached to a frame that is mounted so as to turn both on vertical and horizontal axes, the former carrying a vernier plate on a horizontal graduated plate or circle for azimuthal angles, and the latter a vertical graduated arc or semicircle for altitudes. The whole is furnished with levels and adjusting screws and mounted on a tripod. 

THEODOLITIC:  Of or pertaining to a theodolite; made by means of a theodolite; as, theodolitic observations. 

THEOGONIC:  Of or relating to theogony. 

THEOGONISM:  Theogony. [R.] 

THEOGONIST:  A writer on theogony. 

THEOGONY:  The generation or genealogy of the gods; that branch of heathen theology which deals with the origin and descent of the deities; also, a poem treating of such genealogies; as, the Theogony of Hesiod. 

THEOLOGASTER:  A pretender or quack in theology. [R.] Burton. 

THEOLOGER:  A theologian. Cudworth. 

THEOLOGIAN:  A person well versed in theology; a professor of theology or divinity; a divine. 

THEOLOGIC:  Theological. 

THEOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to theology, or the science of God and of divine things; as, a theological treatise.  -- The`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

THEOLOGICS:  Theology. Young. 

THEOLOGIST:  A theologian. 

THEOLOGIZE:  To render theological; to apply to divinity; to reduce to a system of theology. School divinity was but Aristotle's philosophy theologized. Glanvill. 

THEOLOGIZE:  To frame a system of theology; to theorize or speculate upon theological subjects. 

THEOLOGIZER:  One who theologizes; a theologian. [R.] Boyle. 

THEOLOGY:  The science of God or of religion; the science which treats of the existence, character, and attributes of God, his laws and government, the doctrines we are to believe, and the duties we are to practice; divinity; (as more commonly understood) "the knowledge derivable from the Scriptures, the systematic exhibition of revealed truth, the science of Christian faith and life." Many speak of theology as a science of religion [instead of "science of God"] because they disbelieve that there is any knowledge of God to be attained. Prof. R. Flint (Enc. Brit.). Theology is ordered knowledge; representing in the region of the intellect what religion represents in the heart and life of man. Gladstone. Ascetic theology, Natural theology. See Ascetic, Natural.  -- Moral theology, that phase of theology which is concerned with moral character and conduct.  -- Revealed theology, theology which is to be learned only from revelation.  -- Scholastic theology, theology as taught by the scholastics, or as prosecuted after their principles and methods.  -- Speculative theology, theology as founded upon, or influenced by, speculation or metaphysical philosophy.  -- Systematic theology, that branch of theology of which the aim is to reduce all revealed truth to a series of statements that together shall constitute an organized whole. E. G. Robinson (Johnson's Cyc.). 

THEOMACHIST:  One who fights against the gods; one who resists God of the divine will. 

THEOMANCY:  A kind of divination drawn from the responses of oracles among heathen nations.  THEOPATHETIC; THEOPATHIC The`o*pa*thet"ic, The`o*path"ic, a.  Of or pertaining to a theopathy. 

THEOPATHY:  Capacity for religious affections or worship. 

THEOPHANIC:  Of or pertaining to a theopany; appearing to man, as a god. 

THEOPHANY:  A manifestation of God to man by actual appearance, usually as an incarnation. 

THEOPHILANTHROPIC:  Pertaining to theophilanthropy or the theophilanthropists. 

THEOPHILANTHROPISM:  The doctrine of the theophilanthropists; theophilanthropy. 

THEOPHILANTHROPIST:  A member of a deistical society established at Paris during the French revolution. 

THEOPHILANTHROPY:  Theophilanthropism. Macaulay. 

THEOPHILOSOPHIC:  Combining theism and philosophy, or pertaining to the combination of theism and philosophy. 

THEOPNEUSTED:  Divinely inspired; theopneustic. [R.] 

THEOPNEUSTIC:  Given by the inspiration of the Spirit of God. 

THEOPNEUSTY:  Divine inspiration; the supernatural influence of the Divine Spirit in qualifying men to receive and communicate revealed truth. 

THEORBIST:  One who plays on a theorbo. 

THEORBO:  An instrument made like large lute, but having two necks, with two sets of pegs, the lower set holding the strings governed by frets, while to the upper set were attached the long bass strings used as open notes.  Note: A larger form of theorbo was also called the archlute, and was used chiefly, if not only, as an accompaniment to the voice. Both have long fallen into disuse. 

THEOREM:  A statement of a principle to be demonstrated.  Note: A theorem is something to be proved, and is thus distinguished from a problem, which is something to be solved. In analysis, the term is sometimes applied to a rule, especially a rule or statement of relations expressed in a formula or by symbols; as, the binomial theorem; Taylor's theorem. See the Note under Proposition, n., 5. Binomial theorem. (Math.) See under Binomial.  -- Negative theorem, a theorem which expresses the impossibility of any assertion.  -- Particular theorem (Math.), a theorem which extends only to a particular quantity.  -- Theorem of Pappus. (Math.) See Centrobaric method, under Centrobaric.  -- Universal theorem (Math.), a theorem which extends to any quantity without restriction. 

THEOREM:  To formulate into a theorem.  THEOREMATIC; THEOREMATICAL The`o*re*mat"ic, The`o*re*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.  Of or pertaining to a theorem or theorems; comprised in a theorem; consisting of theorems. 

THEOREMATIST:  One who constructs theorems. 

THEOREMIC:  Theorematic. Grew.  THEORETIC; THEORETICAL The`o*ret"ic, The`o*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. theoreticus, F. théorétique.]  Pertaining to theory; depending on, or confined to, theory or speculation; speculative; terminating in theory or speculation: not practical; as, theoretical learning; theoretic sciences.  -- The`o*ret"ic*al*ly, adv. 

THEORETICS:  The speculative part of a science; speculation. At the very first, with our Lord himself, and his apostles, as represented to us in the New Testament, morals come before contemplation, ethics before theoretics. H. B. Wilson. 

THEORIC:  Relating to, or skilled in, theory; theoretically skilled. [Obs.] A man but young, Yet old in judgment, theoric and practic In all humanity. Massinger. 

THEORIC:  Speculation; theory. [Obs.] Shak. 

THEORICA:  Public moneys expended at Athens on festivals, sacrifices, and public entertainments (especially theatrical performances), and in gifts to the people; -- also called theoric fund. 

THEORICAL:  Theoretic. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

THEORICALLY:  In a theoretic manner. [Obs.] 

THEORIST:  One who forms theories; one given to theory and speculation; a speculatist. Cowper. The greatest theoretists have given the preference to such a government as that which obtains in this kingdom. Addison. 

THEORIZATION:  The act or product of theorizing; the formation of a theory or theories; speculation. 

THEORIZE:  To form a theory or theories; to form opinions solely by theory; to speculate. 

THEORIZER:  One who theorizes or speculates; a theorist. 

THEORY:  A theosophist.  THEOSOPHIC; THEOSOPHICAL The`o*soph"ic, The`o*soph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. théosophique.]  Of or pertaining to theosophy.  -- The`o*soph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

THEOSOPHISM:  Belief in theosophy. Murdock. 

THEOSOPHIST:  One addicted to theosophy. The theosophist is one who gives you a theory of God, or of the works of God, which has not reason, but an inspiration of his own, for its basis. R. A. Vaughan. 

THEOSOPHISTICAL:  Of or pertaining to theosophy; theosophical. 

THEOSOPHIZE:  To practice theosophy. [R.] 

THEOSOPHY:  Any system of philosophy or mysticism which proposes to attain intercourse with God and superior spirits, and consequent superhuman knowledge, by physical processes, as by the theurgic operations of some ancient Platonists, or by the chemical processes of the German fire philosophers; also, a direct, as distinguished from a revealed, knowledge of God, supposed to be attained by extraordinary illumination; especially, a direct insight into the processes of the divine mind, and the interior relations of the divine nature. 

THERAPEUTAE:  A name given to certain ascetics said to have anciently dwelt in the neighborhood of Alexandria. They are described in a work attributed to Philo, the genuineness and credibility of which are now much discredited.  THERAPEUTIC; THERAPEUTICAL Ther`a*peu"tic, Ther`a*peu"tic*al, a. Etym: [F. thérapeutique, Gr. (Med.)  Of or pertaining to the healing art; concerned in discovering and applying remedies for diseases; curative. "Therapeutic or curative physic." Sir T. Browne. Medicine is justly distributed into "prophylactic," or the art of preserving health, and therapeutic, or the art of restoring it. I. Watts. 

THERAPEUTIC:  One of the Therapeutæ. 

THERAPEUTICS:  That part of medical science which treats of the discovery and application of remedies for diseases. 

THERAPEUTIST:  One versed in therapeutics, or the discovery and application of remedies. 

THERAPY:  Therapeutics. 

THEREAGAIN:  In opposition; against one's course. [Obs.] If that him list to stand thereagain. Chaucer.  THERE-ANENT There"-a*nent`, adv.  Concerning that. [Scot.] 

THEREAT:  Before that time; beforehand. [Obs.] Many a winter therebiforn. Chaucer. 

THEREFOR:  For that, or this; for it. With certain officers ordained therefore. Chaucer. 

THEREFROM:  From this or that. Turn not aside therefrom to the right hand or to the left. John. xxiii. 6. 

THEREIN:  In that or this place, time, or thing; in that particular or respect. Wyclif. He pricketh through a fair forest, Therein is many a wild beast. Chaucer. Bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein. Gen. ix. 7. Therein our letters do not well agree. Shak. 

THEREINTO:  Into that or this, or into that place. Bacon. Let not them . . . enter thereinto. Luke xxi. 21. 

THEREOF:  Of that or this. In the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Gen. ii. 17. 

THEREOLOGY:  Therapeutios. 

THEREON:  On that or this. Chaucer. Then the king said, Hang him thereon. Esther vii. 9. 

THERETOFORE:  Up to that time; before then; -- correlative with heretofore. 

THEREUNDER:  Under that or this. 

THEREUNTO:  Unto that or this; thereto; besides. Shak. 

THEREWHILE:  At that time; at the same time. [Obs.] Laud. 

THERF:  Not fermented; unleavened; -- said of bread, loaves, etc. [Obs.] Pask and the feast of therf loaves. Wyclif.  THERIAC; THERIACA The"ri*ac, The*ri"a*ca, n. Etym: [L. theriaca an antidote against the bite of serpents, Gr. thériaque. See Treacle.]  1. (Old Med.)  An ancient composition esteemed efficacious against the effects of poison; especially, a certain compound of sixty-four drugs, prepared, pulverized, and reduced by means of honey to an electuary; -- called also theriaca Andromachi, and Venice treacle.  2. Treacle; molasses. British Pharm.  THERIAC; THERIACAL The"ri*ac, The*ri"a*cal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. thériacal.]  Of or pertaining to theriac; medicinal. "Theriacal herbs." Bacon. 

THERIAL:  Theriac. [R.] Holland. 

THERIODONT:  One of the Theriodontia. Used also adjectively. 

THERIODONTA:  Same as Theriodontia. 

THERIODONTIA:  An extinct order of reptiles found in the Permian and Triassic formations in South Africa. In some respects they resembled carnivorous mammals. Called also Theromorpha.  Note: They had biconcave vertebræ, ambulatory limbs, and a well- developed pelvis and shoulder girdle. Some of the species had large maxillary teeth. The head somewhat resembled that of a turtle. The Dicynodont is one of the best-known examples. See Dicynodont. 

THERIOTOMY:  Zoötomy. 

THERMAE:  Springs or baths of warm or hot water. 

THERMAL:  Of or pertaining to heat; warm; hot; as, the thermal unit; thermal waters. The thermal condition of the earth. J. D. Forbes. Thermal conductivity, Thermal spectrum. See under Conductivity, and Spectrum.  -- Thermal unit (Physics), a unit chosen for the comparison or calculation of quantities of heat. The unit most commonly employed is the amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of one gram or one pound of water from zero to one degree Centigrade. See Calorie, and under Unit. 

THERMALLY:  In a thermal manner. 

THERMANTIDOTE:  A device for circulating and cooling the air, consisting essentially of a kind of roasting fan fitted in a window and incased in wet tatties. [India]  Will you bring me to book on the mountains, or where the thermantidotes play Kipling. 

THERMETOGRAPH:  A self-registering thermometer, especially one that registers the maximum and minimum during long periods. Nichol. 

THERMIC:  Of or pertaining to heat; due to heat; thermal; as, thermic lines. Thermic balance. See Bolometer.  -- Thermic fever (Med.), the condition of fever produced by sunstroke. See Sunstroke.  -- Thermic weight. (Mech.) Same as Heat weight, under Heat. 

THERMIDOR:  The eleventh month of the French republican calendar, -- commencing July 19, and ending August 17. See the Note under Vendémiaire. 

THERMIFUGINE:  An artificial alkaloid of complex composition, resembling thalline and used as an antipyretic, -- whence its name.  THERMO- Ther"mo-.  A combining form from Gr. qe`rmh heat, qermo`s hot, warm; as in thermochemistry, thermodynamic.  THERMOANAESTHESIA; THERMOANESTHESIA Ther`mo*an`æs*the"si*a or -an`es*the"si*a, n. [NL.] (Med.)  Loss of power to distinguish heat or cold by touch. 

THERMOBAROGRAPH:  An instrument for recording simultaneously the pressure and temperature of a gas; a combined thermograph and barograph. 

THERMOBAROMETER:  An instrument for determining altitudes by the boiling point of water. 

THERMOBATTERY:  A thermoelectric battery; a thermopile. 

THERMOCAUTERY:  Cautery by the application of heat. Paquelin's thermocautery, thermocautery by means of a hollow platinum point, which is kept constantly hot by the passage through it of benzine vapor.  THERMOCHEMIC; THERMOCHEMICAL Ther`mo*chem"ic, Ther`mo*chem"ic*al, a. (Chem. Physics)  Of or pertaining to thermochemistry; obtained by, or employed in, thermochemistry. 

THERMOCHEMISTRY:  That branch of chemical science which includes the investigation of the various relations existing between chemical action and that manifestation of force termed heat, or the determination of the heat evolved by, or employed in, chemical actions. 

THERMOCHROIC:  Pert. to or designating heat rays that have undergone selective absorption and are therefore analogous to colored light rays. 

THERMOCHROSY:  The property possessed by heat of being composed, like light, of rays of different degrees of refrangibility, which are unequal in rate or degree of transmission through diathermic substances. 

THERMOCOUPLE:  A thermoelectric couple. 

THERMOCURRENT:  A current, as of electricity, developed, or set in motion, by the action of heat. 

THERMODIN:  A white crystalline substance derived from urethane, used in medicine as an antipyretic, etc. 

THERMODYNAMIC:  Relating to thermodynamics; caused or operated by force due to the application of heat. Thermodynamic function. See Heat weight, under Heat. 

THERMODYNAMICS:  The science which treats of the mechanical action or relations of heat. 

THERMOELECTRIC:  Pertaining to thermoelectricity; as, thermoelectric currents.  THERMOELECTRIC COUPLE; THERMOELECTRIC PAIR Ther`mo*e*lec"tric couple or pair. (Elec.)  A union of two conductors, as bars or wires of dissimilar metals joined at their extremities, for producing a thermoelectric current. 

THERMOELECTRICITY:  Electricity developed in the action of heat. See the Note under Electricity. 

THERMOELECTROMETER:  An instrument for measuring the strength of an electric current in the heat which it produces, or for determining the heat developed by such a current. 

THERMOGEN:  Caloric; heat; regarded as a material but imponderable substance. 

THERMOGENIC:  Relating to heat, or to the production of heat; producing heat; thermogenous; as, the thermogenic tissues. 

THERMOGENOUS:  Producing heat; thermogenic. 

THERMOGRAM:  The trace or record made by means of a thermograph. 

THERMOGRAPH:  An instrument for automatically recording indications of the variation of temperature. 

THERMOGRAPHY:  Any process of writing involving the use of heat. 

THERMOJUNCTION:  A junction of two dissimilar conductors used to produce a thermoelectric current, as in one form of pyrometer; a thermocouple. 

THERMOLOGY:  A discourse on, or an account of, heat. Whewell. 

THERMOLUMINESCENCE:  Luminescence exhibited by a substance on being moderately heated. It is shown esp. by certain substances that have been exposed to the action of light or to the cathode rays. ---lu`mi*nes"cent (#), a. 

THERMOLYSIS:  The resolution of a compound into parts by heat; dissociation by heat. 

THERMOLYTIC:  Of or pertaining to thermolysis. 

THERMOLYZE:  To subject to thermolysis; to dissociate by heat. 

THERMOMAGNETISM:  Magnetism as affected or caused by the action of heat; the relation of heat to magnetism. 

THERMOMETER:  An instrument for measuring temperature, founded on the principle that changes of temperature in bodies are accompained by proportional changes in their volumes or dimensions.  Note: The thermometer usually consists of a glass tube of capillary bore, terminating in a bulb, and containing mercury or alcohol, which expanding or contracting according to the temperature to which it is exposed, indicates the degree of heat or cold by the amount of space occupied, as shown by the position of the top of the liquid column on a graduated scale. See Centigrade, Fahrenheit, and Réaumur. To reduce degrees Fahrenheit to degrees Centigrade, substract 32° and multiply by Air thermometer, Balance thermometer, etc. See under Air, Balance, etc.  -- Metallic thermometer, a form of thermometer indicating changes of temperature by the expansion or contraction of rods or strips of metal.  -- Register thermometer, or Self-registering thermometer, a thermometer that registers the maximum and minimum of temperature occurring in the interval of time between two consecutive settings of the instrument. A common form contains a bit of steel wire to be pushed before the column and left at the point of maximum temperature, or a slide of enamel, which is drawn back by the liquid, and left within it at the point of minimum temperature.  THERMOMETRIC; THERMOMETRICAL Ther`mo*met"ric, Ther`mo*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. thermométrique.]  1. Of or pertaining to a thermometer; as, the thermometrical scale or tube.  2. Made, or ascertained, by means of a thermometer; as, thermometrical observations. 

THERMOMETRICALLY:  In a thermometrical manner; by means of a thermometer. 

THERMOMETROGRAPH:  An instrument for recording graphically the variations of temperature, or the indications of a thermometer. 

THERMOMETRY:  The estimation of temperature by the use of a thermometric apparatus. 

THERMOMOTOR:  A heat engine; a hot-air engine. 

THERMOMULTIPLIER:  Same as Thermopile. 

THERMONEUTRALITY:  Neutrality as regards heat effects. 

THERMOPHILIC:  Heat-loving; -- applied esp. to certain bacteria. 

THERMOPHORE:  An apparatus for conveying heat, as a case containing material which retains its heat for a considerable period. 

THERMOPILE:  An instrument of extreme sensibility, used to determine slight differences and degrees of heat. It is composed of alternate bars of antimony and bismuth, or any two metals having different capacities for the conduction of heat, connected with an astatic galvanometer, which is very sensibly affected by the electric current induced in the system of bars when exposed even to the feeblest degrees of heat. 

THERMOREGULATOR:  A device for the automatic regulation of temperature; a thermostat. 

THERMOSCOPE:  An instrument for indicating changes of temperature without indicating the degree of heat by which it is affected; especially, an instrument contrived by Count Rumford which, as modified by Professor Leslie, was afterward called the differential thermometer. 

THERMOSCOPIC:  Of or pertaining to the thermoscope; made by means of the thermoscope; as, thermoscopic observations. 

THERMOSIPHON:  An arrangement of siphon tubes for assisting circulation in a liquid. 

THERMOSTABLE:  Capable of being heated to or somewhat above 55º C. without loss of special properties; -- said of immune substances, etc. 

THERMOSTAT:  A self-acting apparatus for regulating temperature by the unequal expansion of different metals, liquids, or gases by heat, as in opening or closing the damper of a stove, or the like, as the heat becomes greater or less than is desired. 

THERMOSTATIC:  Of or pertaining to the thermostat; made or effected by means of the thermostat. 

THERMOSYSTALTIC:  Influenced in its contraction by heat or cold; -- said of a muscle. 

THERMOTACTIC:  Of or retaining to thermotaxis. 

THERMOTANK:  A tank containing pipes through which circulates steam, water, air, or the like, for heating or cooling; -- used in some heating and ventilation systems. 

THERMOTAXIC:  Pertaining to, or connected with, the regulation of temperature in the animal body; as, the thermotaxic nervous system. 

THERMOTENSILE:  Pertaining to the variation of tensile strength with the temperature. 

THERMOTENSION:  A process of increasing the strength of wrought iron by heating it to a determinate temperature, and giving to it, while in that state, a mechanical strain or tension in the direction in which the strength is afterward to be exerted. 

THERMOTHERAPY:  Treatment of disease by heat, esp. by hot air.  THERMOTIC; THERMOTICAL Ther*mot"ic, Ther*mot"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.  Of or pertaining to heat; produced by heat; as, thermotical phenomena. Whewell. 

THERMOTICS:  The science of heat. Whewell. 

THERMOTONUS:  A condition of tonicity with respect to temperature. 

THERMOTROPIC:  Manifesting thermotropism. 

THERMOTROPISM:  The phenomenon of turning towards a source of warmth, seen in the growing parts of some plants. 

THERMOTYPE:  A picture (as of a slice of wood) obtained by first wetting the object slightly with hydrochloric or dilute sulphuric acid, then taking an impression with a press, and next strongly heating this impression. 

THERMOTYPY:  The art or process of obtaining thermotypes. 

THERMOVOLTAIC:  Of or relating to heat and electricity; especially, relating to thermal effects produced by voltaic action. Faraday. 

THEROID:  Resembling a beast in nature or habit; marked by animal characteristics; as, theroid idiocy. 

THEROMORPHA:  See Theriodonta. 

THEROPODA:  An order of carnivorous dinosaurs in which the feet are less birdlike, and hence more like those of an ordinary quadruped, than in the Ornithopoda. It includes the repacious genera Megalosaurus, Creosaurus, and their allies. 

THESAURUS:  A treasury or storehouse; hence, a repository, especially of knowledge; -- often applied to a comprehensive work, like a dictionary or cyclopedia. 

THESE:  The plural of this. See This. 

THESICLE:  A little or subordinate thesis; a proposition. 

THESIS:  An affirmation, or distinction from a supposition or hypothesis.  4. (Mus.)  The accented part of the measure, expressed by the downward beat; -- the opposite of arsis.  5. (Pros.) (a) The depression of the voice in pronouncing the syllables of a word. (b) The part of the foot upon which such a depression falls. 

THESMOTHETE:  A lawgiver; a legislator; one of the six junior archons at Athens. 

THESPIAN:  Of or pertaining to Thespis; hence, relating to the drama; dramatic; as, the Thespian art.  -- n.  An actor. 

THESSALIAN:  Of or pertaining to Thessaly in Greece. Shak.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Thessaly. 

THESSALONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Thessalonica, a city of Macedonia.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Thessalonica. 

THETA:  A letter of the Greek alphabet corresponding to th in English; -- sometimes called the unlucky letter, from being used by the judges on their ballots in passing condemnation on a prisoner, it being the first letter of the Greek qa`natos, death. Theta function (Math.), one of a group of functions used in developing the properties of elliptic functions. 

THETICAL:  Laid down; absolute or positive, as a law. Dr. H. More. 

THETINE:  Any one of a series of complex basic sulphur compounds analogous to the sulphines.  THEURGIC; THEURGICAL The*ur"gic, The*ur"gic*al, a. Etym: [L. theurgicus, Gr. théurgique.]  Of or pertaining to theurgy; magical. Theurgic hymns, songs of incantation. 

THEURGIST:  One who pretends to, or is addicted to, theurgy. Hallywell. 

THEWY:  Having strong or large thews or muscles; muscular; sinewy; strong. 

THEY:  The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed. Jolif and glad they went unto here [their] rest And casten hem [them] full early for to sail. Chaucer. They of Italy salute you. Heb. xiii. 24. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. Matt. v. 6.  Note: They is used indefinitely, as our ancestors used man, and as the French use on; as, they say (French on dit), that is, it is said by persons not specified. 

THIALDINE:  A weak nitrogenous sulphur base, C6H13NS2. 

THIALOL:  A colorless oily liquid, (C2H5)2S2, having a strong garlic odor; -- called also ethyl disulphide. By extension, any one of the series of related compounds. 

THIBETAN:  Of or pertaining to Thibet.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Thibet.  THIBET CLOTH Thib"et cloth`. (a) A fabric made of coarse goat's hair; a kind of camlet. (b) A kind of fine woolen cloth, used for dresses, cloaks, etc. 

THIBETIAN:  Same as Thibetan. 

THIBLE:  A slice; a skimmer; a spatula; a pudding stick. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ainsworth. 

THICK:  To thicken. [R.] The nightmare Life-in-death was she, Who thicks man's blood with cold. Coleridge. 

THICKBILL:  The bullfinch. [Prov. Eng.] 

THICKEN:  To make thick (in any sense of the word). Specifically: -- (a) To render dense; to inspissate; as, to thicken paint. (b) To make close; to fill up interstices in; as, to thicken cloth; to thicken ranks of trees or men. (c) To strengthen; to confirm. [Obs.] And this may to thicken other proofs. Shak.  (d) To make more frequent; as, to thicken blows. 

THICKEN:  To become thick. "Thy luster thickens when he shines by." Shak. The press of people thickens to the court. Dryden. The combat thickens, like the storm that flies. Dryden. 

THICKENING:  Something put into a liquid or mass to make it thicker. 

THICKET:  A wood or a collection of trees, shrubs, etc., closely set; as, a ram caught in a thicket. Gen. xxii. 13. 

THICKHEAD:  Any one of several species of Australian singing birds of the genus Pachycephala. The males of some of the species are bright- colored. Some of the species are popularly called thrushes.  THICK-HEADED Thick"-head`ed, a.  Having a thick skull; stupid. 

THICKISH:  Somewhat thick.  THICK-KNEE Thick"-knee`, n. (Zoöl.)  A stone curlew. See under Stone. 

THICKLY:  In a thick manner; deeply; closely. 

THICKNESS:  The quality or state of being thick (in any of the senses of the adjective). 

THICKSKIN:  A coarse, gross person; a person void of sensibility or sinsitiveness; a dullard.  THICK-SKINNED Thick"-skinned`, a.  Having a thick skin; hence, not sensitive; dull; obtuse. Holland. 

THICKSKULL:  A dullard, or dull person; a blockhead; a numskull. Entick.  THICK-SKULLED Thick"-skulled`, a.  Having a thick skull; hence, dull; heavy; stupid; slow to learn.  THICK WIND Thick" wind`. (Far.)  A defect of respiration in a horse, that is unassociated with noise in breathing or with the signs of emphysema.  THICK-WINDED Thick"-wind`ed, a. (Far.)  Affected with thick wind. 

THIDER:  Thither. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THIDERWARD:  Thitherward. [Obs.] 

THIEFLY:  Like a thief; thievish; thievishly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THIENONE:  A ketone derivative of thiophene obtained as a white crystalline substance, (C4H3S)2.CO, by the action of aluminium chloride and carbonyl chloride on thiophene. 

THIENYL:  The hypothetical radical C4H3S, regarded as the essential residue of thiophene and certain of its derivatives. 

THIEVE:  To practice theft; to steal. 

THIGH:  The proximal segment of the hind limb between the knee and the trunk. See Femur.  2. (Zoöl.)  The coxa, or femur, of an insect. Thigh bone (Anat.), the femur. 

THIGMOTACTIC:  Of or pertaining to thigmotaxis. 

THIGMOTAXIS:  The property possessed by living protoplasm of contracting, and thus moving, when touched by a solid or fluid substance.   When the movement is away from the touching body, it is negative thigmotaxis; when towards it, positive thigmotaxis. 

THILK:  That same; this; that. [Obs.] "I love thilk lass." Spenser. Thou spake right now of thilke traitor death. Chaucer. 

THILL:  The floor of a coal mine. Raymond. Thill coupling, a device for connecting the thill of a vehicle to the axle. 

THILLER:  The horse which goes between the thills, or shafts, and supports them; also, the last horse in a team; -- called also thill horse. 

THIMBLE:  Any thimble-shaped appendage or fixure. Specifically: -- (a) A tubular piece, generally a strut, through which a bolt or pin passes. (b) A fixed or movable ring, tube, or lining placed in a hole. (c) A tubular cone for expanding a flue; -- called ferrule in England.  3. (Naut.)  A ring of thin metal formed with a grooved circumference so as to fit within an eye-spice, or the like, and protect it from chafing. 

THIMBLEBERRY:  A kind of black raspberry (Rubus occidentalis), common in America. 

THIMBLEEYE:  The chub mackerel. See under Chub. 

THIMBLEFUL:  As much as a thimble will hold; a very small quantity. For a thimbleful of golf, a thimbleful of love. Dryden. 

THIMBLERIG:  A sleight-of-hand trick played with three small cups, shaped like thimbles, and a small ball or little pea. 

THIMBLERIG:  To swindle by means of small cups or thimbles, and a pea or small ball placed under one of them and quickly shifted to another, the victim laying a wager that he knows under which cup it is; hence, to cheat by any trick. 

THIMBLERIGGER:  One who cheats by thimblerigging, or tricks of legerdemain. 

THIMBLEWEED:  Any plant of the composite genus Rudbeckia, coarse herbs somewhat resembling the sunflower; -- so called from their conical receptacles. 

THIN:  Not thickly or closely; in a seattered state; as, seed sown thin. Spain is thin sown of people. Bacon. 

THIN:  To make thin (in any of the senses of the adjective). 

THIN:  To grow or become thin; -- used with some adverbs, as out, away, etc.; as, geological strata thin out, i. e., gradually diminish in thickness until they disappear. 

THINE:  A form of the possessive case of the pronoun thou, now superseded in common discourse by your, the possessive of you, but maintaining a place in solemn discourse, in poetry, and in the usual language of the Friends, or Quakers.  Note: In the old style, thine was commonly shortened to thi (thy) when used attributively before words beginning with a consonant; now, thy is used also before vowels. Thine is often used absolutely, the thing possessed being understood. 

THING:  Clothes; furniture; appurtenances; luggage; as, to pack or store one's things. [Colloq.]  Note: Formerly, the singular was sometimes used in a plural or collective sense. And them she gave her moebles and her thing. Chaucer.  Note: Thing was used in a very general sense in Old English, and is still heard colloquially where some more definite term would be used in careful composition. In the garden [he] walketh to and fro, And hath his things [i. e., prayers, devotions] said full courteously. Chaucer. Hearkening his minstrels their things play. Chaucer.  7. (Law)  Whatever may be possessed or owned; a property; -- distinguished from person.  8. [In this sense pronounced tîng.]  In Scandinavian countries, a legislative or judicial assembly. Longfellow. Things personal. (Law) Same as Personal property, under Personal.  -- Things real. Same as Real property, under Real. 

THINKABLE:  Capable of being thought or conceived; cogitable. Sir W. Hamilton. 

THINKER:  One who thinks; especially and chiefly, one who thinks in a particular manner; as, a close thinker; a deep thinker; a coherent thinker. 

THINKING:  Having the faculty of thought; cogitative; capable of a regular train of ideas; as, man is a thinking being.  -- Think"ing*ly, adv. 

THINKING:  The act of thinking; mode of thinking; imagination; cogitation; judgment. I heard a bird so sing, Whose music, to my thinking, pleased the king. Shak. 

THINLY:  In a thin manner; in a loose, scattered manner; scantily; not thickly; as, ground thinly planted with trees; a country thinly inhabited. 

THINNER:  One who thins, or makes thinner. 

THINNESS:  The quality or state of being thin (in any of the senses of the word). 

THINNISH:  Somewhat thin. 

THINOLITE:  A calcareous tufa, in part crystalline, occurring on a large scale as a shore deposit about the Quaternary lake basins of Nevada.  THIN-SKINNED Thin"-skinned`, a.  Having a thin skin; hence, sensitive; irritable.  THIO- Thi"o-. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of sulphur. See Sulpho-. 

THIOCARBONATE:  A sulphocarbonate. 

THIOCARBONIC:  Same as Sulphocarbonic. 

THIOCYANATE:  Same as Sulphocyanate. 

THIOCYANIC:  Same as Sulphocyanic. 

THIONAPHTHENE:  A double benzene and thiophene nucleus, C8H6S, analogous to naphthalene, and like it the base of a large series of derivatives. [Written also thionaphtene.] 

THIONIC:  Of or pertaining to sulphur; containing or resembling sulphur; specifically, designating certain of the thio compounds; as, the thionic acids. Cf. Dithionic, Trithionic, Tetrathionic, etc. 

THIONINE:  An artificial red or violet dyestuff consisting of a complex sulphur derivative of certain aromatic diamines, and obtained as a dark crystalline powder; -- called also phenylene violet. 

THIONOL:  A red or violet dyestuff having a greenish metallic luster. It is produced artificially, by the chemical dehydration of thionine, as a brown amorphous powder. 

THIONOLINE:  A beautiful fluorescent crystalline substance, intermediate in composition between thionol and thionine. 

THIONYL:  The hypothetical radical SO, regarded as an essential constituent of certain sulphurous compounds; as, thionyl chloride. 

THIOPHENE:  A sulphur hydrocarbon, C4H4S, analogous to furfuran and benzene, and acting as the base of a large number of substances which closely resemble the corresponding aromatic derivatives. 

THIOPHENIC:  Of, pertaining to, or derived from, thiophene; specifically, designating a certain acid analogous to benzoic acid. 

THIOPHENOL:  A colorless mobile liquid, C6H5.SH, of an offensive odor, and analogous to phenol; -- called also phenyl sulphydrate. 

THIOPHTHENE:  A double thiophene nucleus, C6H4S2, analogous to thionaphthene, and the base of a large series of compounds. [Written also thiophtene.] 

THIOSULPHATE:  A salt of thiosulphuric acid; -- formerly called hyposulphite.  Note: The sodium salt called in photography by the name sodium hyposulphite, being used as a solvent for the excess of unchanged silver chloride, bromide, and iodide on the sensitive plate. 

THIOSULPHURIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an unstable acid, H2S2O3, analogous to sulphuric acid, and formerly called hyposulphurous acid. 

THIOTOLENE:  A colorless oily liquid, C4H3S.CH3, analogous to, and resembling, toluene; -- called also methyl thiophene. 

THIOXENE:  Any one of three possible metameric substances, which are dimethyl derivatives of thiophene, like the xylenes from benzene. 

THIRD:  The third tone of the scale; the mediant.  4. pl. (Law)  The third part of the estate of a deseased husband, which, by some local laws, the widow is entitled to enjoy during her life. Major third (Mus.), an interval of two tones.  -- Minor third (Mus.), an interval of a tone and a half.  THIRD-BOROUGH Third"-bor`ough, n. (O. Eng. Law)  An under constable. Shak. Johnson. 

THIRDINGS:  The third part of the corn or grain growing on the ground at the tenant's death, due to the lord for a heriot, as within the manor of Turfat in Herefordshire. 

THIRDLY:  In the third place. Bacon.  THIRD-PENNY Third"-pen`ny, n. (A.S. Law)  A third part of the profits of fines and penalties imposed at the country court, which was among the perquisites enjoyed by the earl.  THIRD RAIL Third rail. (Electric Railways)  (a) The third rail used in the third-rail system.  (b) An electric railway using such a rail. [Colloq.]  THIRD-RAIL SYSTEM Third-rail system. (Electric Railways)  A system in which a third rail is used for carrying the current for operating the motors, the rail being insulated from the ground and the current being taken off by means of contact brushes or other devices. 

THIRL:  To bore; to drill or thrill. See Thrill. [Obs. or Prov.] That with a spear was thirled his breast bone. Chaucer. 

THIRLAGE:  The right which the owner of a mill possesses, by contract or law, to compel the tenants of a certain district, or of his sucken, to bring all their grain to his mill for grinding. Erskine. 

THIRST:  To have a thirst for. [R.] He seeks his keeper's flesh, and thirsts his blood. Prior. 

THIRSTER:  One who thirsts. 

THIRSTILY:  In a thirsty manner. 

THIRSTINESS:  The state of being thirsty; thirst. 

THIRSTLE:  The throstle. [Prov. Eng.] 

THIRTEEN:  One more than twelve; ten and three; as, thirteen ounces or pounds. 

THIRTEENTH:  The interval comprising an octave and a sixth. 

THIRTIETH:  The quotient of a unit divided by thirty; one of thirty equal parts. 

THIRTY:  Being three times ten; consisting of one more than twenty-nine; twenty and ten; as, the month of June consists of thirty days. 

THIRTY:  Being one of thirty-two equal parts into which anything is divided. Thirty-second note (Mus.), the thirty-second part of a whole note; a demi-semiquaver. 

THISTLE:  Any one of several prickly composite plants, especially those of the genera Cnicus, Craduus, and Onopordon. The name is often also applied to other prickly plants. Blessed thistle, Carduus benedictus, so named because it was formerly considered an antidote to the bite of venomous creatures.  -- Bull thistle, Cnicus lanceolatus, the common large thistle of neglected pastures.  -- Canada thistle, Cnicus arvensis, a native of Europe, but introduced into the United States from Canada.  -- Cotton thistle, Onopordon Acanthium.  -- Fuller's thistle, the teasel.  -- Globe thistle, Melon thistle, etc. See under Globe, Melon, etc.  -- Pine thistle, Atractylis gummifera, a native of the Mediterranean region. A vicid gum resin flows from the involucre.  -- Scotch thistle, either the cotton thistle, or the musk thistle, or the spear thistle; -- all used national emblems of Scotland.  -- Sow thistle, Sonchus oleraceus.  -- Spear thistle. Same as Bull thistle.  -- Star thistle, a species of Centaurea. See Centaurea.  -- Torch thistle, a candelabra-shaped plant of the genus Cereus. See Cereus.  -- Yellow thistle, Cincus horridulus. Thistle bird (Zoöl.), the American goldfinch, or yellow-bird (Spinus tristis); -- so called on account of its feeding on the seeds of thistles. See Illust. under Goldfinch.  -- Thistle butterfly (Zoöl.), a handsomely colored American butterfly (Vanessa cardui) whose larva feeds upon thistles; -- called also painted lady.  -- Thistle cock (Zoöl.), the corn bunting (Emberiza militaria). [Prov. Eng.] -- Thistle crown, a gold coin of England of the reign of James I., worth four shillings.  -- Thistle finch (Zoöl.), the goldfinch; -- so called from its fondness for thistle seeds. [Prov. Eng.] -- Thistle funnel, a funnel having a bulging body and flaring mouth. 

THITHERTO:  To that point; so far. [Obs.] 

THITHERWARD:  To ward that place; in that direction. They shall ask the way to Zion, with their faces thitherward. Jer. l. 5. 

THITSEE:  The varnish tree of Burmah (Melanorrhoea usitatissima).  2. A black varnish obtained from the tree. 

THLIPSIS:  Compression, especially constriction of vessels by an external cause. 

THO:  The. [Obs.] Spenser. 

THO:  Those. [Obs.] This knowen tho that be to wives bound. Chaucer. 

THO:  Then. [Obs.] Spenser. To do obsequies as was tho the guise. Chaucer. 

THO:  Though. [Reformed spelling.] 

THOLE:  To bear; to endure; to undergo. [Obs. or Scot.] Gower. So much woe as I have with you tholed. Chaucer. To thole the winter's steely dribble. Burns. 

THOLE:  To wait. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]  THOMAEAN; THOMEAN Tho*mæ"an, Tho*me"an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)  A member of the ancient church of Christians established on the Malabar coast of India, which some suppose to have been originally founded by the Apostle Thomas.  THOMAS PHOSPHATE; THOMAS SLAG Thom"as phos"phate or slag .  Same as Basic slag, above.  THOMAS PROCESS Thom"as proc"ess. (Iron Metal.)  Same as Basic process, above.  THOMISM; THOMAISM Tho"mism, Tho"ma*ism, n. (Eccl. Hist.)  The doctrine of Thomas Aquinas, esp. with respect to predestination and grace. 

THOMIST:  A follower of Thomas Aquinas. See Scotist. 

THOMITE:  A Thomæan. 

THOMSENOLITE:  A fluoride of aluminium, calcium, and sodium occurring with the cryolite of Greenland.  THOMSEN'S DISEASE Thom"sen's dis*ease". Etym: [From Thomsen, a physician of Sleswick.] (Med.)  An affection apparently congenital, consisting in tonic contraction and stiffness of the voluntary muscles occurring after a period of muscular inaction. 

THOMSONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Thomsonianism.  -- n.  A believer in Thomsonianism; one who practices Thomsonianism. 

THOMSONIANISM:  An empirical system which assumes that the human body is composed of four elements, earth, air, fire, and water, and that vegetable medicines alone should be used; -- from the founder, Dr. Samuel Thomson, of Massachusetts. 

THOMSONITE:  A zeolitic mineral, occurring generally in masses of a radiated structure. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, lime, and soda. Called also mesole, and comptonite.  THOMSON PROCESS Thomson process. [After Elihu Thomson, American inventor.]  A process of electric welding in which heat is developed by a large current passing through the metal. 

THONG:  A strap of leather; especially, one used for fastening anything. And nails for loosened spears, and thongs for shields, provide. Dryden. Thong seal (Zoöl.), the bearded seal. See the Note under Seal. 

THOOID:  Of or pertaining to a group of carnivores, including the wovels and the dogs. 

THOR:  The god of thunder, and son of Odin. 

THORACENTESIS:  The operation of puncturing the chest wall so as to let out liquids contained in the cavity of the chest. 

THORACIC:  Of or pertaining to the thorax, or chest. Thoracic duct (Anat.), the great trunk of the lymphatic vessels, situated on the ventral side of the vertebral column in the thorax and abdomen. See Illust. of Lacteal. 

THORACIC:  One of a group of fishes having the ventral fins placed beneath the thorax or beneath the pectorial fins. 

THORACICA:  A division of cirripeds including those which have six thoracic segments, usually bearing six pairs of cirri. The common barnacles are examples. 

THORACOMETER:  Same as Stethometer. 

THORACOPLASTY:  A remodeling or reshaping of the thorax; especially, the operation of removing the ribs, so as to obliterate the pleural cavity in cases of empyema. 

THORACOSTRACA:  An extensive division of Crustacea, having a dorsal shield or carapec 

THORACOTOMY:  The operation of opening the pleural cavity by incision. 

THORAL:  Of or pertaining to a bed. [R.] 

THORAX:  The part of the trunk between the neck and the abdomen, containing that part of the body cavity the walls of which are supported by the dorsal vertebræ, the ribs, and the sternum, and which the heart and lungs are situated; the chest.  Note: In mammals the thoracic cavity is completely separated from the abdominal by the diaphragm, but in birds and many reptiles the separation is incomplete, while in other reptiles, and in amphibians and fishes, there is no marked separation and no true thorax.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) The middle region of the body of an insect, or that region which bears the legs and wings. It is composed of three united somites, each of which is composed of several distinct parts. See Illust. in Appendix. and Illust. of Coleoptera. (b) The second, or middle, region of the body of a crustacean, arachnid, or other articulate animal. In the case of decapod Crustacea, some writers include under the term thorax only the three segments bearing the maxillipeds; others include also the five segments bearing the legs. See Illust. in Appendix.  3. (Antiq.)  A breastplate, cuirass, or corselet; especially, the breastplate worn by the ancient Greeks. 

THORIA:  A rare white earthy substance, consisting of the oxide of thorium; -- formerly called also thorina. 

THORIC:  Of or pertaining to thorium; designating the compounds of thorium. 

THORITE:  A mineral of a brown to black color, or, as in the variety orangite, orange-yellow. It is essentially a silicate of thorium. 

THORIUM:  A metallic element found in certain rare minerals, as thorite, pyrochlore, monazite, etc., and isolated as an infusible gray metallic powder which burns in the air and forms thoria; -- formerly called also thorinum. Symbol Th. Atomic weight 232.0. 

THORN:  Any shrub or small tree which bears thorns; especially, any species of the genus Cratægus, as the hawthorn, whitethorn, cockspur thorn.  3. Fig.: That which pricks or annoys as a thorn; anything troublesome; trouble; care. There was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me. 2 Cor. xii. 7. The guilt of empire, all its thorns and cares, Be only mine. Southern.  4. The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter th, as in thin, then. So called because it was the initial letter of thorn, a spine. Thorn apple (Bot.), Jamestown weed.  -- Thorn broom (Bot.), a shrub that produces thorns.  -- Thorn hedge, a hedge of thorn-bearing trees or bushes.  -- Thorn devil. (Zoöl.) See Moloch, 2.  -- Thorn hopper (Zoöl.), a tree hopper (Thelia cratægi) which lives on the thorn bush, apple tree, and allied trees. 

THORN:  To prick, as with a thorn. [Poetic] I am the only rose of all the stock That never thorn'd him. Tennyson. 

THORNBACK:  A European skate (Raia clavata) having thornlike spines on its back.  2. (Zoöl.)  The large European spider crab or king crab (Maia squinado). 

THORNBILL:  Any one of several species of small, brilliantly colored American birds of the genus Rhamphomicron. They have a long, slender, sharp bill, and feed upon honey, insects, and the juice of the sugar cane. 

THORNBIRD:  A small South American bird (Anumbius anumbii) allied to the ovenbirds of the genus Furnarius). It builds a very large and complex nest of twigs and thorns in a bush or tree. 

THORNBUT:  The turbot.  THORN-HEADED Thorn"-head`ed, a.  Having a head armed with thorns or spines. Thorn-headed worm (Zoöl.), any worm of the order Acanthocephala; -- called also thornhead. 

THORNLESS:  Destitute of, or free from, thorns. 

THORNSET:  Set with thorns. Dyer. 

THORNTAIL:  A beautiful South American humming bird (Gouldia Popelairii), having the six outer tail feathers long, slender, and pointed. The head is ornamented with a long, pointed crest. 

THORO:  Thorough. [Reformed spelling.] 

THOROUGH:  Through. [Obs.] Spenser. Shak. 

THOROUGH:  A furrow between two ridges, to drain off the surface water. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  THOROUGH BASS Thor"ough bass`. (Mus.)  The representation of chords by figures placed under the base; figured bass; basso continuo; -- sometimes used as synonymous with harmony.  THOROUGH-BRACE Thor"ough-brace`, n.  A leather strap supporting the body of a carriage, and attached to springs, or serving as a spring. See Illust. of Chaise. 

THOROUGHBRED:  Bred from the best blood through a long line; pure-blooded; -- said of stock, as horses. Hence, having the characteristics of such breeding; mettlesome; courageous; of elegant form, or the like.  -- n.  A thoroughbred animal, especially a horse. 

THOROUGHGOING:  Provided with thorough lights or windows at opposite sides, as a room or building. Gwilt. 

THOROUGHLY:  In a thorough manner; fully; entirely; completely. 

THOROUGHNESS:  The quality or state of being thorough; completeness. 

THOROUGHPACED:  Perfect in what is undertaken; complete; going all lengths; as, a thoroughplaced Tory or Whig. If she be a thoroughplaced impostor. Sir W. Scott. 

THOROUGHPIN:  A disease of the hock (sometimes of the knee) of a horse, caused by inflammation of the synovial membrane and a consequent excessive secretion of the synovial fluid; -- probably so called because there is usually an oval swelling on each side of the leg, appearing somewhat as if a pin had been thrust through. 

THOROUGHSPED:  Fully accomplished; thoroughplaced. [R.] Swift. 

THOROUGHSTITCH:  So as to go the whole length of any business; fully; completely. [Obs.] Preservance alone can carry us thoroughstitch. L'Estrange. 

THOROUGHWORT:  Same as Boneset. 

THOROW:  Through. [Obs.] "Thorow bramble, pits, and floods." Beau. & Fl. 

THOROW:  Thorough. [Obs.] Hakluyt.  THORP; THORPE Thorp, Thorpe (thôrp), n. Etym: [AS. þorp; akin to OS. & OFries. thorp, D. dorp, G. dorf, Icel. þorp, Dan. torp, Sw. torp a cottage, a little farm, Goth. þaúrp a field, and probably to Lith. troba a building, a house, W. tref a hamlet, Ir. treabh a farmed village, a tribe, clan, Gael. treabhair houses, and perhaps to L. turba a crowd, mult. Cf. Dorp.]  A group of houses in the country; a small village; a hamlet; a dorp; -- now chiefly occurring in names of places and persons; as, Althorp, Mablethorpe. "Within a little thorp I staid." Fairfax. Then thorpe and byre arose in fire. Tennyson. 

THOSE:  The plural of that. See That. 

THOTH:  The god of eloquence and letters among the ancient Egyptians, and supposed to be the inventor of writing and philosophy. He corresponded to the Mercury of the Romans, and was usually represented as a human figure with the head of an ibis or a lamb.  2. (Zoöl.)  The Egyptian sacred baboon. 

THOU:  The second personal pronoun, in the singular number, denoting the person addressed; thyself; the pronoun which is used in addressing persons in the solemn or poetical style. Art thou he that should come Matt. xi. 3.  Note: "In Old English, generally, thou is the language of a lord to a servant, of an equal to an equal, and expresses also companionship, love, permission, defiance, scorn, threatening: whilst ye is the language of a servant to a lord, and of compliment, and further expresses honor, submission, or entreaty." Skeat.  Note: Thou is now sometimes used by the Friends, or Quakers, in familiar discourse, though most of them corruptly say thee instead of thou. 

THOU:  To address as thou, esp. to do so in order to treat with insolent familiarity or contempt. If thou thouest him some thrice, it shall not be amiss. Shak. 

THOU:  To use the words thou and thee in discourse after the manner of the Friends. [R.] 

THOUGH:  Granting, admitting, or supposing that; notwithstanding that; if. Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. Job xiii. 15. Not that I so affirm, though so it seem. Milton.  Note: It is compounded with all in although. See Although. As though, as if. In the vine were three branches; and it was as though it budded. Gen. xl. 10. 

THOUGH:  However; nevertheless; notwithstanding; -- used in familiar language, and in the middle or at the end of a sentence. I would not be as sick though for his place. Shak. A good cause would do well, though. Dryden. 

THOUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Think. 

THOUGHTLESS:  Telepathy. 

THOUSANDFOLD:  Multiplied by a thousand.  THOUSAND LEGS Thou"sand legs`. (Zoöl.)  A millepid, or galleyworm; -- called also thousand-legged worm. 

THOUSANDTH:  The quotient of a unit divided by a thousand; one of a thousand equal parts into which a unit is divided.  THOWEL; THOWL Thow"el, Thowl, n. Etym: [See Thole.] (Naut.) (a) A thole pin. (b) A rowlock. I would sit impatiently thinking with what an unusual amount of noise the oars worked in the thowels. Dickens. 

THRACIAN:  Of or pertaining to Thrace, or its people.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Thrace. 

THRACK:  To load or burden; as, to thrack a man with property. [Obs.] South. 

THRACKSCAT:  Metal still in the mine. [Obs.] 

THRALDOM:  The condition of a thrall; slavery; bondage; state of servitude. [Written also thralldom.] Women are born to thraldom and penance And to be under man's governance. Chaucer. He shall rule, and she in thraldom live. Dryden. 

THRALL:  Of or pertaining to a thrall; in the condition of a thrall; bond; enslaved. [Obs.] Spenser. The fiend that would make you thrall and bond. Chaucer. 

THRALL:  To enslave. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. 

THRALLDOM:  Thraldom.  THRALL-LESS Thrall"-less, a. (a) Having no thralls. (b) Not enslaved; not subject to bonds.  THRALL-LIKE Thrall"-like`, a.  Resembling a thrall, or his condition, feelings, or the like; slavish. Servile and thrall-like fear. Milton. 

THRANITE:  One of the rowers on the topmost of the three benches in a trireme. 

THRAPPLE:  Windpipe; throttle. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]  THRASH; THRESH Thrash, Thresh, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Thrashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Thrashing.] Etym: [OE. , , to beat, AS. , ; akin to D. dorschen, OD. derschen, G. dreschen, OHG. dreskan, Icel. , Sw. tröska, Dan. tærske, Goth. , Lith. traszketi to rattle, Russ. treskate to burst, crackle, tresk' a crash, OSlav. troska a stroke of lighting. Cf. Thresh.]  1. To beat out grain from, as straw or husks; to beat the straw or husk of (grain) with a flail; to beat off, as the kernels of grain; as, to thrash wheat, rye, or oats; to thrash over the old straw. The wheat was reaped, thrashed, and winnowed by machines. H. Spencer.  2. To beat soundly, as with a stick or whip; to drub.  THRASH; THRESH Thrash, Thresh, v. t.  1. To practice thrashing grain or the like; to perform the business of beating grain from straw; as, a man who thrashes well.  2. Hence, to labor; to toil; also, to move violently. I rather would be Mævius, thrash for rhymes, Like his, the scorn and scandal of the times. Dryden. 

THRASHEL:  An instrument to thrash with; a flail. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  THRASHER; THRESHER Thrash"er, Thresh"er, n.  1. One who, or that which, thrashes grain; a thrashing machine.  2. (Zoöl.)  A large and voracious shark (Alopias vulpes), remarkable for the great length of the upper lobe of its tail, with which it beats, or thrashes, its prey. It is found both upon the American and the European coasts. Called also fox shark, sea ape, sea fox, slasher, swingle-tail, and thrasher shark.  3. (Zoöl.)  A name given to the brown thrush and other allied species. See Brown thrush. Sage thrasher. (Zoöl.) See under Sage.  -- Thrasher whale (Zoöl.), the common killer of the Atlantic. 

THRASHING:  a. & n. from Thrash, v. Thrashing floor, Threshing-floor, or Threshing floor, a floor or area on which grain is beaten out.  -- Thrashing machine, a machine for separating grain from the straw. 

THRASONICAL:  Of or pertaining to Thraso; like, or becoming to, Thraso; bragging; boastful; vainglorious.  -- Thra*son"ic*al*ly, adv. Cæsar's thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and overcame.' Shak. 

THRASTE:  To thrust. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THRAW:  See Throse. [Scot.] Burns. 

THREADBARENESS:  The state of being threadbare. 

THREADEN:  Made of thread; as, threaden sails; a threaden fillet. [Obs.] Shak. 

THREADFIN:  Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Polynemus and allied genera. They have numerous long pectoral filaments. 

THREADINESS:  Quality of being thready.  THREAD-SHAPED Thread"-shaped`, a.  Having the form of a thread; filiform. 

THREADWORM:  Any long, slender nematode worm, especially the pinworm and filaria. 

THREAP:  To contend obstinately; to be pertinacious. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] It's not for a man with a woman to threap. Percy's Reliques. 

THREAP:  An obstinate decision or determination; a pertinacious affirmation. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] He was taken a threap that he would have it finished before the year was done. Carlyle. 

THREAT:  The expression of an intention to inflict evil or injury on another; the declaration of an evil, loss, or pain to come; meance; threatening; denunciation. There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats. Shak. 

THREAT:  To threaten. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak. Of all his threating reck not a mite. Chaucer. Our dreaded admiral from far they threat. Dryden. 

THREATEN:  To use threats, or menaces; also, to have a threatening appearance. Though the seas threaten, they are merciful. Shak. 

THREATENER:  One who threatens. Shak. 

THREATENING:  a. & n. from Threaten, v.  -- Threat"en*ing*ly, adv. Threatening letters (Law), letters containing threats, especially those designed to extort money, or to obtain other property, by menaces; blackmailing letters. 

THREATFUL:  Full of threats; having a menacing appearance. Spenser.  -- Threat"ful*ly, adv. 

THREAVE:  Same as Thrave. [Obs.] 

THREE:  One more than two; two and one. "I offer thee three things." 2 Sam. xxiv. 12. Three solemn aisles approach the shrine. Keble.  Note: Three is often joined with other words, forming compounds signifying divided into, composed of, or containing, three parts, portions, organs, or the like; as, three-branched, three-capsuled, three-celled, three-cleft, three-edged, three-foot, three-footed, three-forked, three-grained, three-headed, three-legged, three- mouthed, three-nooked, three-petaled, three-pronged, three-ribbed, three-seeded, three-stringed, three-toed, and the like. 

THREE:  Having or consisting of three coats; -- applied to plastering which consists of pricking-up, floating, and a finishing coat; or, as called in the United States, a scratch coat, browning, and finishing coat.  THREE-COLOR Three"-col`or, a.  Designating, or pert. to, a photomechanical process employing printings in three colors, as red, yellow, and blue.  THREE-CORNERED Three"-cor`nered, a.  1. Having three corners, or angles; as, a three-cornered hat.  2. (Bot.)  Having three prominent longitudinal angles; as, a three- cornered stem.  THREE-DECKER Three"-deck`er, n. (Naut.)  A vessel of war carrying guns on three decks.  THREE-FLOWERED Three"-flow`ered, a. (Bot.)  Bearing three flowers together, or only three flowers. 

THREEFOLD:  Consisting of three, or thrice repeated; triple; as, threefold justice. A threefold cord is not quickly broken. Eccl. iv. 12.  THREE-HANDED Three"-hand`ed, a.  Said of games or contests where three persons play against each other, or two against one; as, a three-handed game of cards.  THREE-LEAFED; THREE-LEAVED Three"-leafed`, Three"-leaved`, a. (Bot.) (a) Producing three leaves; as, three-leaved nightshade. (b) Consisting of three distinct leaflets; having the leaflets arranged in threes. Three-leaved nightshade. See Trillium.  THREE-LOBED Three"-lobed`, a.  Having three lobes. Three-lobed leaf (Bot.), a leaf divided into three parts, the sinuses extending not more than half way to the middle, and either the parts of the sinuses being rounded.  THREE-MILE Three"-mile`, a.  Of or pertaining to three miles; as, the three-mile limit, or the limit of the marine belt (the three-mile belt or zone) of three miles included in territorial waters (which see) of a state.  THREE-NERVED Three"-nerved`, a.  Having three nerves. Three-nerved leaf (Bot.), a leaf having three distinct and prominent ribs, or nerves, extending from the base.  THREE-PARTED Three"-part`ed, a.  Divided into, or consisting of, three parts; tripartite. Three- parted leaf (Bot.), a leaf divided into three parts down to the base, but not entirely separate. 

THREEPENCE:  A small silver coin of three times the value of a penny. [Eng.] 

THREEPENNY:  Costing or worth three pence; hence, worth but little; poor; mean.  THREE-PILE Three"-pile`, n.  An old name for the finest and most costly kind of velvet, having a fine, thick pile. I have served Prince Florizel and in my time wore three-pile. Shak.  THREE-PILED Three"-piled`, a.  1. Having the quality of three-pile; best; most costly. [R.] Thou art good velvet; thou 'rt three-piled piece. Shak.  2. Fig.: Extravagant; exaggerated; high-flown. "Three-piled hyperboles." Shak.  3. Accustomed to wearing three-pile; hence, of high rank, or wealth. [Obs.] "Three-piled people." Beau. & Fl.  THREE-PLY Three"-ply`, a.  Consisting of three distinct webs inwrought together in weaving, as cloth or carpeting; having three strands; threefold.  THREE-POINTED Three"-point`ed, a. (Bot.)  Having three acute or setigerous points; tricuspidate.  THREE-PORT Three"-port`, a.  Having three ports; specif.: Designating a type of two-cycle internal-combustion engine in which the mixture enters the crank case through a port uncovered by the piston near the end of its stroke.  THREE-QUARTER Three"-quar`ter, a. (Paint.)  Measuring thirty inches by twenty-five; -- said of portraitures. Three-quarter length, a portrait showing the figure to the hips only.  THREE-SCORE Three"-score`, a.  Thrice twenty; sixty.  THREE-SIDED Three"-sid`ed, a.  Having three sides, especially three plane sides; as, a three- sided stem, leaf, petiole, peduncle, scape, or pericarp.  THREE-SQUARE Three"-square`, a.  Having a cross section in the form of an equilateral triangle; -- said especially of a kind of file.  THREE-TORQUE SYSTEM OF CONTROL Three"-torque` system of control. (Aëronautics)  Any system of rudders by which the pilot can exert a turning moment about each of the three rectangular axes of an aëroplane or airship.  THREE-VALVED Three"-valved`, a.  Consisting of, or having, three valves; opening with three valves; as, a three-valved pericarp.  THREE-WAY Three"-way`, a.  Connected with, or serving to connect, three channels or pipes; as, a three-way cock or valve. 

THRENE:  Lamentation; threnody; a dirge. Shak. The threns . . . of the prophet Jeremiah. Jer. Taylor.  THRENETIC; THRENETICAL Thre*net"ic, Thre*net"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Threne.]  Pertaining to a threne; sorrowful; mournful. 

THRENODE:  A threne, or threnody; a dirge; a funeral song. 

THRENODIST:  One who composes, delivers, or utters, a threnode, or threnody. 

THRENODY:  A song of lamentation; a threnode. Sir T. Herbert. 

THREPE:  To call; to term. [Obs.] "Luna silver we threpe." Chaucer. 

THREPSOLOGY:  The doctrine of nutrition; a treatise on nutrition. 

THRESH:  Same as Thrash. He would thresh, and thereto dike and delve. Chaucer. 

THRESHER:  Same as Thrasher.  THRESH-FOLD Thresh"-fold`, n.  Threshold. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THRESHWOLD:  Threshold. [Obs.] 

THRESTE:  To thrust. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THRETTEEN:  Thirteen. [Obs. or Scot.] 

THRETTY:  Thirty. [Obs. or Scot.] Burns. 

THREW:  imp. of Throw. 

THRIBBLE:  Triple; treble; threefold. [Prov. Eng. or Colloq.] Halliwell. 

THRICECOCK:  The missel thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 

THRID:  Third. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THRID:  Thread; continuous line. [Archaic] I resume the thrid of my discourse. Dryden. 

THRIFALLOW:  See Thryfallow, and Trifallow. [R.] Tusser. 

THRIFT:  One of several species of flowering plants of the genera Statice and Armeria. Common thrift (Bot.), Armeria vulgaris; -- also called sea pink.  Syn.  -- Frugality; economy; prosperity; gain; profit. 

THRIFTINESS:  The quality or state of being thrifty; thrift. 

THRIFTLESS:  Without thrift; not prudent or prosperous in money affairs.  -- Thrift"less*ly, adv.  -- Thrift"less*ness, n. 

THRILL:  A warbling; a trill. 

THRILL:  A breathing place or hole; a nostril, as of a bird. 

THRILLANT:  Piercing; sharp; thrilling. [Obs.] "His thrillant spear." Spenser. 

THRILLING:  Causing a thrill; causing tremulous excitement; deeply moving; as, a thrilling romance.  -- Thrill"ing*ly, adv.  -- Thrill"ing*ness, n. 

THRING:  To press, crowd, or throng. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THRIPS:  Any one of numerous small species of Thysanoptera, especially those which attack useful plants, as the grain thrips (Thrips cerealium).  Note: The term is also popularly applied to various other small injurious insects. 

THRIST:  Thrist. [Obs.] Spenser. 

THRITTENE:  Thirteen. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THRIVEN:  p. p. of Thrive. 

THRIVER:  One who thrives, or prospers. 

THRIVINGLY:  In a thriving manner. 

THRIVINGNESS:  The quality or condition of one who thrives; prosperity; growth; increase.  THRO' Thro'.  A contraction of Through. 

THROAT:  The part of a chimney between the gathering, or portion of the funnel which contracts in ascending, and the flue. Gwilt.  4. (Naut.) (a) The upper fore corner of a boom-and-gaff sail, or of a staysail. (b) That end of a gaff which is next the mast. (c) The angle where the arm of an anchor is joined to the shank. Totten.  5. (Shipbuilding)  The inside of a timber knee.  6. (Bot.)  The orifice of a tubular organ; the outer end of the tube of a monopetalous corolla; the faux, or fauces. Throat brails (Naut.), brails attached to the gaff close to the mast.  -- Throat halyards (Naut.), halyards that raise the throat of the gaff.  -- Throat pipe (Anat.), the windpipe, or trachea.  -- To give one the lie in his throat, to accuse one pointedly of lying abominably.  -- To lie in one's throat, to lie flatly or abominably. 

THROATBAND:  Same as Throatlatch. 

THROATBOLL:  The Adam's apple in the neck. [Obs. or R.] By the throatboll he caught Aleyn. Chaucer. 

THROATING:  A drip, or drip molding. 

THROATLATCH:  A strap of a bridle, halter, or the like, passing under a horse's throat. 

THROATWORT:  A plant (Campanula Trachelium) formerly considered a remedy for sore throats because of its throat-shaped corolla. 

THROATY:  Guttural; hoarse; having a guttural voice. "Hard, throaty words." Howell. 

THROB:  To beat, or pulsate, with more than usual force or rapidity; to beat in consequence of agitation; to palpitate; -- said of the heart, pulse, etc. My heart Throbs to know one thing. Shak. Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast. Shak. 

THROB:  A beat, or strong pulsation, as of the heart and arteries; a violent beating; a papitation: The IMPATIENT throbs and longings of a soul That pants and reaches after distant good. Addison. 

THRODDEN:  To grow; to thrive. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

THROE:  To struggle in extreme pain; to be in agony; to agonize. 

THROE:  To put in agony. [R.] Shak. 

THROMBIN:  The fibrin ferment which produces the formation of fibrin from fibrinogen. 

THROMBOSIS:  The obstruction of a blood vessel by a clot formed at the site of obstruction; -- distinguished from embolism, which is produced by a clot or foreign body brought from a distance.  -- Throm*bot"ic, a. 

THRONE:  A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaning given by the schoolmen. Milton. Great Sire! whom thrones celestial ceaseless sing. Young. 

THRONE:  To be in, or sit upon, a throne; to be placed as if upon a throne. Shak. 

THRONELESS:  Having no throne. 

THRONG:  To crowd together; to press together into a close body, as a multitude of persons; to gather or move in multitudes. I have seen the dumb men throng to see him. Shak. 

THRONG:  Thronged; crowded; also, much occupied; busy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Bp. Sanderson. To the intent the sick . . . should not lie too throng. Robynson (More's Utopia). 

THRONGLY:  In throngs or crowds. [Obs.] 

THROP:  A thorp. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THROPPLE:  The windpipe. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

THROPPLE:  To throttle. [Prov. Eng.] 

THROSTLE:  The song thrush. See under Song.  2. A machine for spinning wool, cotton, etc., from the rove, consisting of a set of drawing rollers with bobbins and flyers, and differing from the mule in having the twisting apparatus stationary and the processes continuous; -- so called because it makes a singing noise. Throstle cock, the missel thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 

THROSTLING:  A disease of bovine cattle, consisting of a swelling under the throat, which, unless checked, causes strangulation. 

THROTTLE:  The throttle valve. Throttle lever (Steam Engine), the hand lever by which a throttle valve is moved, especially in a locomotive.  -- Throttle valve (Steam Engine), a valve moved by hand or by a governor for regulating the supply of steam to the steam chest. In one form it consists of a disk turning on a transverse axis. 

THROTTLER:  See Flasher, 3 (b). [Prov. Eng.] 

THROUGH:  Going or extending through; going, extending, or serving from the beginning to the end; thorough; complete; as, a through line; a through ticket; a through train. Also, admitting of passage through; as, a through bridge. Through bolt, a bolt which passes through all the thickness or layers of that which it fastens, or in which it is fixed.  -- Through bridge, a bridge in which the floor is supported by the lower chords of the tissues instead of the upper, so that travel is between the trusses and not over them. Cf. Deck bridge, under Deck.  -- Through cold, a deep-seated cold. [Obs.] Holland.  -- Through stone, a flat gravestone. [Scot.] [Written also through stane.] Sir W. Scott.  -- Through ticket, a ticket for the whole journey.  -- Through train, a train which goes the whole length of a railway, or of a long route. 

THROUGHLY:  Thoroughly. [Obs.] Bacon. Wash me throughly from mine iniquity. Ps. li. 2. To dare in fields is valor; but how few Dare to be throughly valiant to be true Dryden. 

THROUGHOUT:  Quite through; from one extremity to the other of; also, every part of; as, to search throughout the house. Nor to their idle orbs doth sight appear Of sun, or moon, or star, throughout the year. Milton. 

THROUGHOUT:  In every part; as, the cloth was of a piece throughout. 

THROVE:  imp. of Thrive. 

THROW:  Pain; especially, pain of travail; throe. [Obs.] Spenser. Dryden. 

THROW:  Time; while; space of time; moment; trice. [Obs.] Shak. I will with Thomas speak a little throw. Chaucer. 

THROW:  To cause to take a strategic position; as, he threw a detachment of his army across the river.  5. To overturn; to prostrate in wrestling; as, a man throws his antagonist.  6. To cast, as dice; to venture at dice. Set less than thou throwest. Shak.  7. To put on hastily; to spread carelessly. O'er his fair limbs a flowery vest he threw. Pope.  8. To divest or strip one's self of; to put off. There the snake throws her enameled skin. Shak.  9. (Pottery)  To form or shape roughly on a throwing engine, or potter's wheel, as earthen vessels.  10. To give forcible utterance to; to cast; to vent. I have thrown A brave defiance in King Henry's teeth. Shak.  11. To bring forth; to produce, as young; to bear; -- said especially of rabbits.  12. To twist two or more filaments of, as silk, so as to form one thread; to twist together, as singles, in a direction contrary to the twist of the singles themselves; -- sometimes applied to the whole class of operations by which silk is prepared for the weaver. Tomlinson. To throw away. (a) To lose by neglect or folly; to spend in vain; to bestow without a compensation; as, to throw away time; to throw away money. (b) To reject; as, to throw away a good book, or a good offer.  -- To throw back. (a) To retort; to cast back, as a reply. (b) To reject; to refuse. (c) To reflect, as light.  -- To throw by, to lay aside; to discard; to neglect as useless; as, to throw by a garment.  -- To throw down, to subvert; to overthrow; to destroy; as, to throw down a fence or wall.  -- To throw in. (a) To inject, as a fluid. (b) To put in; to deposit with others; to contribute; as, to throw in a few dollars to help make up a fund; to throw in an occasional comment. (c) To add without enumeration or valuation, as something extra to clinch a bargain.  -- To throw off. (a) To expel; to free one's self from; as, to throw off a disease. (b) To reject; to discard; to abandon; as, to throw off all sense of shame; to throw off a dependent. (c) To make a start in a hunt or race. [Eng.](e) To disconcert or confuse. Same as to throw out (f).  -- To throw on, to cast on; to load.  -- To throw one's self down, to lie down neglectively or suddenly.  -- To throw one's self on or upon. (a) To fall upon. (b) To resign one's self to the favor, clemency, or sustain power of (another); to repose upon.  -- To throw out. (a) To cast out; to reject or discard; to expel. "The other two, whom they had thrown out, they were content should enjoy their exile." Swift. "The bill was thrown out." Swift. (b) To utter; to give utterance to; to speak; as, to throw out insinuation or observation. "She throws out thrilling shrieks." Spenser. (c) To distance; to leave behind. Addison. (d) To cause to project; as, to throw out a pier or an abutment. (e) To give forth; to emit; as, an electric lamp throws out a brilliant light. (f) To put out; to confuse; as, a sudden question often throws out an orator.  -- To throw over, to abandon the cause of; to desert; to discard; as, to throw over a friend in difficulties.  -- To throw up. (a) To resign; to give up; to demit; as, to throw up a commission. "Experienced gamesters throw up their cards when they know that the game is in the enemy's hand." Addison. (b) To reject from the stomach; to vomit. (c) To construct hastily; as, to throw up a breastwork of earth. 

THROW:  To perform the act of throwing or casting; to cast; specifically, to cast dice. To throw about, to cast about; to try expedients. [R.] 

THROW:  The extreme movement given to a sliding or vibrating reciprocating piece by a cam, crank, eccentric, or the like; travel; stroke; as, the throw of a slide valve. Also, frequently, the length of the radius of a crank, or the eccentricity of an eccentric; as, the throw of the crank of a steam engine is equal to half the stroke of the piston.  7. (Pottery)  A potter's wheel or table; a jigger. See 2d Jigger, 2 (a).  8. A turner's lathe; a throwe. [Prov. Eng.]  9. (Mining)  The amount of vertical displacement produced by a fault; -- according to the direction it is designated as an upthrow, or a downthrow.  THROW-CROOK Throw"-crook`, n. (Agric.)  An instrument used for twisting ropes out of straw. 

THROWE:  A turning lathe. [Prov. Eng.] 

THROWER:  One who throws. Specifically: (a) One who throws or twists silk; a throwster. (b) One who shapes vessels on a throwing engine. 

THROWING:  a. & n. from Throw, v. Throwing engine, Throwing mill, Throwing table, or Throwing wheel (Pottery), a machine on which earthenware is first rudely shaped by the hand of the potter from a mass of clay revolving rapidly on a disk or table carried by a vertical spindle; a potter's wheel.  THROWING STICK Throw"ing stick`. (Anthropol.)  An instrument used by various savage races for throwing a spear; -- called also throw stick and spear thrower. One end of the stick receives the butt of the spear, as upon a hook or thong, and the other end is grasped with the hand, which also holds the spear, toward the middle, above it with the finger and thumb, the effect being to bring the place of support nearer the center of the spear, and practically lengthen the arm in the act of throwing. 

THROWN:  a. & p. p. from Throw, v. Thrown silk, silk thread consisting of two or more singles twisted together like a rope, in a direction contrary to that in which the singles of which it is composed are twisted. M'Culloch.  -- Thrown singles, silk thread or cord made by three processes of twisting, first into singles, two or more of which are twisted together making dumb singles, and several of these twisted together to make thrown singles.  THROW-OFF Throw"-off`, n.  A start in a hunt or a race. [Eng.] 

THROWSTER:  One who throws or twists silk; a thrower. 

THRU:  Through. [Ref. spelling.] 

THRUM:  A threadlike part of a flower; a stamen.  4. (Mining)  A shove out of place; a small displacement or fault along a seam.  5. (Naut.)  A mat made of canvas and tufts of yarn. Thrum cap, a knitted cap. Halliwell.  -- Thrum hat, a hat made of coarse woolen cloth. Minsheu. 

THRUM:  To insert short pieces of rope-yarn or spun yarn in; as, to thrum a piece of canvas, or a mat, thus making a rough or tufted surface. Totten. 

THRUM:  Having the anthers raised above the stigma, and visible at the throat of the corolla, as in long-stamened primroses; -- the reverse of pin-eyed. 

THRUMMY:  Like thrums; made of, furnished with, or characterized by, thrums. Dampier. On her head thrummy cap she had. Chalkhill. 

THRUMWORT:  A kind of amaranth (Amarantus caudatus). Dr. Prior. 

THRUOUT:  Throughout. [Ref. spelling.] 

THRUSH:  Any one of numerous species of singing birds belonging to Turdus and allied genera. They are noted for the sweetness of their songs.  Note: Among the best-known European species are the song thrush or throstle (Turdus musicus), the missel thrush (see under Missel), the European redwing, and the blackbird. The most important American species are the wood thrush (Turdus mustelinus), Wilson's thrush (T. fuscescens), the hermit thrush (see under Hermit), Swainson's thrush (T. Aliciæ), and the migratory thrush, or American robin (see Robin).  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of singing birds more or less resembling the true thrushes in appearance or habits; as the thunderbird and the American brown thrush (or thrasher). See Brown thrush. Ant thrush. See Ant thrush, Breve, and Pitta.  -- Babbling thrush, any one of numerous species of Asiatic timaline birds; -- called also babbler.  -- Fruit thrush, any species of bulbul.  -- Shrike thrush. See under Shrike.  -- Stone thrush, the missel thrush; -- said to be so called from its marbled breast.  -- Thrush nightingale. See Nightingale, 2.  -- Thrush tit, any one of several species of Asiatic singing birds of the genus Cochoa. They are beautifully colored birds allied to the tits, but resembling thrushes in size and habits.  -- Water thrush. (a) The European dipper. (b) An American warbler (Seiurus Noveboracensis). 

THRUSH:  An affection of the mouth, fauces, etc., common in newly born children, characterized by minute ulcers called aphthæ. See Aphthæ.  2. (Far.)  An inflammatory and suppurative affection of the feet in certain animals. In the horse it is in the frog. 

THRUSHEL:  The song thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 

THRUSHER:  The song thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 

THRUST:  Thrist. [Obs.] Spenser. 

THRUST:  The force or pressure of one part of a construction against other parts; especially (Arch.), a horizontal or diagonal outward pressure, as of an arch against its abutments, or of rafters against the wall which support them.  4. (Mining)  The breaking down of the roof of a gallery under its superincumbent weight. Thrust bearing (Screw Steamers), a bearing arranged to receive the thrust or endwise pressure of the screw shaft.  -- Thrust plane (Geol.), the surface along which dislocation has taken place in the case of a reversed fault.  Syn.  -- Push; shove; assault; attack. Thrust, Push, Shove. Push and shove usually imply the application of force by a body already in contact with the body to be impelled. Thrust, often, but not always, implies the impulse or application of force by a body which is in motion before it reaches the body to be impelled. 

THRUSTER:  One who thrusts or stabs. 

THRUSTING:  The white whey, or that which is last pressed out of the curd by the hand, and of which butter is sometimes made. [Written also thrutchthings.] [Prov. Eng.] Thrusting screw, the screw of a screw press, as for pressing curd in making cheese. [R.] 

THRUSTLE:  The throstle, or song thrust. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] When he heard the thrustel sing. Chaucer. 

THRYES:  Thrice. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THRYFALLOW:  To plow for the third time in summer; to trifallow. [R.] [Written also thrifallow.] Tusser. 

THUD:  A dull sound without resonance, like that produced by striking with, or striking against, some comparatively soft substance; also, the stroke or blow producing such sound; as, the thrud of a cannon ball striking the earth. At every new thud of the blast, a sob arose. Jeffrey. At intervals there came some tremendous thud on the side of the steamer. C. Mackay. 

THUG:  One of an association of robbers and murderers in India who practiced murder by stealthy approaches, and from religious motives. They have been nearly exterminated by the British government. 

THUGGEE:  The practice of secret or stealthy murder by Thugs. "One of the suppressors of Thuggee." J. D. Hooker.  THUGGERY; THUGGISM Thug"ger*y, Thug"gism, n.  Thuggee. 

THUJA:  A genus of evergreen trees, thickly branched, remarkable for the distichous arrangement of their branches, and having scalelike, closely imbricated, or compressed leaves. [Written also thuya.] See Thyine wood.  Note: Thuja occidentalis is the Arbor vitæ of the Eastern and Northern United States. T. gigantea of North-waetern America is a very large tree, there called red cedar, and canoe cedar, and furnishes a useful timber. 

THULE:  The name given by ancient geographers to the northernmost part of the habitable world. According to some, this land was Norway, according to others, Iceland, or more probably Mainland, the largest of the Shetland islands; hence, the Latin phrase ultima Thule, farthest Thule. 

THULIA:  Oxide of thulium. 

THULIUM:  A rare metallic element of uncertain properties and identity, said to have been found in the mineral gadolinite. 

THUMB:  The short, thick first digit of the human hand, differing from the other fingers in having but two phalanges; the pollex. See Pollex. Upon his thumb he had of gold a ring. Chaucer. Thumb band, a twist of anything as thick as the thumb. Mortimer.  -- Thumb blue, indigo in the form of small balls or lumps, used by washerwomen to blue linen, and the like.  -- Thumb latch, a door latch having a lever formed to be pressed by the thumb.  -- Thumb mark. (a) The mark left by the impression of a thumb, as on the leaves of a book. Longfellow. (b) The dark spot over each foot in finely bred black and tan terriers.  -- Thumb nut, a nut for a screw, having wings to grasp between the thumb and fingers in turning it; also, a nut with a knurled rim for the same perpose.  -- Thumb ring, a ring worn on the thumb. Shak.  -- Thumb stall. (a) A kind of thimble or ferrule of iron, or leather, for protecting the thumb in making sails, and in other work. (b) (Mil.) A buckskin cushion worn on the thumb, and used to close the vent of a cannon while it is sponged, or loaded.  -- Under one's thumb, completely under one's power or influence; in a condition of subservience. [Colloq.] 

THUMB:  To play with the thumb or thumbs; to play clumsily; to thrum. 

THUMBBIRD:  The goldcrest. [Prov. Eng.] 

THUMBKIN:  An instrument of torture for compressing the thumb; a thumbscrew. 

THUMBLESS:  Without a thumb. Darwin. 

THUMMIE:  The chiff-chaff. [Prov. Eng.] 

THUMMIM:  A mysterious part or decoration of the breastplate of the Jewish high priest. See the note under Urim. 

THUMP:  To strike or beat with something thick or heavy, or so as to cause a dull sound. These bastard Bretons; whom our hathers Have in their own land beaten, bobbed, and thumped. Shak. 

THUMP:  To give a thump or thumps; to strike or fall with a heavy blow; to pound. A watchman at midnight thumps with his pole. Swift. 

THUMPER:  One who, or that which, thumps. 

THUMPING:  Heavy; large. [Colloq.] 

THUNDER:  To emit with noise and terror; to utter vehemently; to publish, as a threat or denunciation. Oracles severe Were daily thundered in our general's ear. Dryden. An archdeacon, as being a prelate, may thunder out an ecclesiastical censure. Ayliffe. 

THUNDERBIRD:  An Australian insectivorous singing bird (Pachycephala gutturalis). The male is conspicuously marked with black and yellow, and has a black crescent on the breast. Called also white-throated thickhead, orange-breasted thrust, black-crowned thrush, guttural thrush, and black-breasted flycatcher. 

THUNDERBOLT:  A belemnite, or thunderstone. Thunderbolt beetle (Zoöl.), a long-horned beetle (Arhopalus fulminans) whose larva bores in the trunk of oak and chestnut trees. It is brownish and bluish-black, with W-shaped whitish or silvery markings on the elytra. 

THUNDERBURST:  A burst of thunder. 

THUNDERCLAP:  A sharp burst of thunder; a sudden report of a discharge of atmospheric electricity. "Thunderclaps that make them quake." Spenser. When suddenly the thunderclap was heard. Dryden. 

THUNDERCLOUD:  A cloud charged with electricity, and producing lightning and thunder. 

THUNDERER:  One who thunders; -- used especially as a translation of L. tonans, an epithet applied by the Romans to several of their gods, esp. to Jupiter. That dreadful oath which binds the Thunderer. Pope. 

THUNDERFISH:  A large European loach (Misgurnus fossilis). 

THUNDERHEAD:  A rounded mass of cloud, with shining white edges; a cumulus, - - often appearing before a thunderstorm. 

THUNDERING:  Thunder. Rev. iv. 5. 

THUNDERLESS:  Without thunder or noise. 

THUNDERPROOF:  Secure against the effects of thunder or lightning. 

THUNDERSHOWER:  A shower accompanied with lightning and thunder. 

THUNDERSTONE:  A belemnite. See Belemnite. 

THUNDERSTORM:  A storm accompanied with lightning and thunder. 

THUNDERWORM:  A small, footless, burrowing, snakelike lizard (Rhineura Floridana) allied to Amphisbæna, native of Florida; -- so called because it leaves its burrows after a thundershower. 

THUNDERY:  Accompanied with thunder; thunderous. [R.] "Thundery weather." Pennant. 

THUNDROUS:  Thunderous; sonorous. "Scraps of thunderous epic." Tennyson. 

THUNNY:  The tunny. [R.] 

THURGH:  Through. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

THURGHFARE:  Thoroughfare. [Obs.] This world is but a thurghfare full of woe. Chaucer. 

THURIBLE:  A censer of metal, for burning incense, having various forms, held in the hand or suspended by chains; -- used especially at mass, vespers, and other solemn services. Fairholt. 

THURIFEROUS:  Producing or bearing frankincense. 

THURIFICATION:  The act of fuming with incense, or the act of burning incense. 

THURINGIAN:  Of or pertaining to Thuringia, a country in Germany, or its people.  -- n.  A native, or inhabitant of Thuringia. 

THURINGITE:  A mineral occurring as an aggregation of minute scales having an olive-green color and pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia and iron. 

THURL:  To cut through, as a partition between one working and another. 

THURLING:  Same as Thurl, n., 2 (a). 

THURROK:  The hold of a ship; a sink. [Obs.] Small drops of water that enter through a little crevice into the thurrok and into the bottom of a ship. Chaucer. 

THURSDAY:  The fifth day of the week, following Wednesday and preceding Friday. Holy Thursday. See under Holy. 

THURST:  The ruins of the fallen roof resulting from the removal of the pillars and stalls. Raymond. 

THUS:  The commoner kind of frankincense, or that obtained from the Norway spruce, the long-leaved pine, and other conifers. 

THUSSOCK:  See Tussock. [Obs.] 

THUYA:  Same as Thuja. 

THUYIN:  A substance extracted from trees of the genus Thuja, or Thuya, and probably identical with quercitrin. [Written also thujin.] 

THWACK:  A heavy blow with something flat or heavy; a thump. With many a stiff thwack, many a bang, Hard crab tree and old iron rang. Hudibras. 

THWAITE:  The twaite. 

THWAITE:  Forest land cleared, and converted to tillage; an assart. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]  Note: Thwaite occurs in composition as the last element in many names of places in the north of England; as, in Rosthwaite, Stonethwaite. 

THWART:  Thwartly; obliquely; transversely; athwart. [Obs.] Milton. 

THWART:  Across; athwart. Spenser. Thwart ships. See Athwart ships, under Athwart. 

THWART:  A seat in an open boat reaching from one side to the other, or athwart the boat. 

THWARTER:  A disease in sheep, indicated by shaking, trembling, or convulsive motions. 

THWARTINGLY:  In a thwarting or obstructing manner; so as to thwart. 

THWARTLY:  Transversely; obliquely. 

THWARTNESS:  The quality or state of being thwart; obliquity; perverseness. 

THWITE:  To cut or clip with a knife; to whittle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. 

THWITTLE:  To cut or whittle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Palsgrave. 

THWITTLE:  A small knife; a whittle. [Written also thwitel.] [Obs.] "A Sheffield thwittle." Chaucer. 

THY:  Of thee, or belonging to thee; the more common form of thine, possessive case of thou; -- used always attributively, and chiefly in the solemn or grave style, and in poetry. Thine is used in the predicate; as, the knife is thine. See Thine. Our father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. Matt. vi. 9,10. These are thy glorious works, Parent of good. Milton.  THYINE WOOD Thy"ine wood`. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)  The fragrant and beautiful wood of a North African tree (Callitris quadrivalvis), formerly called Thuja articulata. The tree is of the Cedar family, and furnishes a balsamic resin called sandarach. Rev. xviii. 12. 

THYLACINE:  The zebra wolf. See under Wolf. 

THYMATE:  A compound of thymol analogous to a salt; as, sodium thymate. 

THYME:  Any plant of the labiate genus Thymus. The garden thyme (Thymus vulgaris) is a warm, pungent aromatic, much used to give a relish to seasoning and soups. Ankle deep in moss and flowery thyme. Cowper. Cat thyme, a labiate plant (Teucrium Marum) of the Mediterranean religion. Cats are said to be fond of rolling on it. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).  -- Wild thyme, Thymus Serpyllum, common on banks and hillsides in Europe. I know a bank where the wild thyme blows. Shak. 

THYMENE:  A liquid terpene obtained from oil of thyme. 

THYMIATECHNY:  The art of employing perfumes in medicine. [R.] Dunglison. 

THYMIC:  Of or pertaining to the thymus gland. 

THYMIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, thyme; as, thymic acid. 

THYMOL:  A phenol derivative of cymene, C10H13.OH, isomeric with carvacrol, found in oil of thyme, and extracted as a white crystalline substance of a pleasant aromatic odor and strong antiseptic properties; -- called also hydroxy cymene. 

THYMUS:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the thymus gland.  -- n.  The thymus gland. Thymus gland, or Thymus body, a ductless gland in the throat, or in the neighboring region, of nearly all vertebrates. In man and other mammals it is the throat, or neck, sweetbread, which lies in the upper part of the thorax and lower part of the throat. It is largest in fetal and early life, and disappears or becomes rudimentary in the adult. 

THYMY:  Abounding with thyme; fragrant; as, a thymy vale. Akenside. Where'er a thymy bank he found, He rolled upon the fragrant ground. Gay.  THYRO- Thy"ro-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the thyroid body or the thyroid cartilage; as, thyrohyal. 

THYROARYTENOID:  Of or pertaining to both the thyroid and arytenoid cartilages of the larynx. 

THYROHYAL:  One of the lower segments in the hyoid arch, often consolidated with the body of the hyoid bone and forming one of its great horns, as in man. 

THYROHYOID:  Of or pertaining to the thyroid cartilage of the larynx and the hyoid arch. 

THYROID:  Of or pertaining to the thyroid body, thyroid cartilage, or thyroid artery; thyroideal. Thyroid cartilage. See under Larynx.  -- Thyroid body, or Thyroid gland (Anat.), a glandlike but ductless body, or pair of bodies, of unknown function, in the floor of the mouth or the region of the larynx. In man and most mammals it is a highly vascular organ, partly surrounding the base of the larynx and the upper part of the trachea.  -- Thyroid dislocation (Surg.), dislocation of the thigh bone into the thyroid foramen.  -- Thyroid foramen, the obturator foramen. 

THYROIDEAL:  Thyroid. 

THYROTOMY:  The operation of cutting into the thyroid cartilage. 

THYRSE:  A thyrsus.  THYRSOID; THYRSOIDAL Thyr"soid, Thyr*soid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. thyrsoïde.]  Having somewhat the form of a thyrsus. 

THYRSUS:  A species of inflorescence; a dense panicle, as in the lilac and horse-chestnut. 

THYSANOPTER:  One of the Thysanoptera. 

THYSANOPTERA:  A division of insects, considered by some writers a distinct order, but regarded by others as belonging to the Hemiptera. They are all of small size, and have narrow, broadly fringed wings with rudimentary nervures. Most of the species feed upon the juices of plants, and some, as those which attack grain, are very injurious to crops. Called also Physopoda. See Thrips. 

THYSANOPTERAN:  One of the Thysanoptera. 

THYSANOPTEROUS:  Of or pertaining to the Thysanoptera. 

THYSANURA:  An order of wingless hexapod insects which have setiform caudal appendages, either bent beneath the body to form a spring, or projecting as bristles. It comprises the Cinura, or bristletails, and the Collembola, or springtails. Called also Thysanoura. See Lepisma, and Podura. 

THYSANURAN:  One of the Thysanura. Also used adjectively. 

THYSANUROUS:  Of or pertaining to the Thysanura. 

THYSBE:  A common clearwing moth (Hemaris thysbe). 

THYSELF:  An emphasized form of the personal pronoun of the second person; -- used as a subject commonly with thou; as, thou thyself shalt go; that is, thou shalt go, and no other. It is sometimes used, especially in the predicate, without thou, and in the nominative as well as in the objective case. Thyself shalt see the act. Shak. Ere I do thee, thou to thyself wast cruel. Milton. 

TIAR:  A tiara. [Poetic] Milton. Tennyson. 

TIARAED:  Adorned with, or wearing, a tiara.  TIB-CAT Tib"-cat`, n.  A female cat. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

TIBIA:  The inner, or preaxial, and usually the larger, of the two bones of the leg or hind limb below the knee.  2. (Zoöl.)  The fourth joint of the leg of an insect. See Illust. under Coleoptera, and under Hexapoda.  3. (Antiq.)  A musical instrument of the flute kind, originally made of the leg bone of an animal. 

TIBIAL:  A tibial bone; a tibiale. 

TIBIALE:  The bone or cartilage of the tarsus which articulates with the tibia and corresponds to a part of the astragalus in man and most mammals. 

TIBICINATE:  To play on a tibia, or pipe. [R.]  TIBIO- Tib"i*o-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tibia; as, tibiotarsus, tibiofibular. 

TIBIOTARSUS:  The large bone between the femur and tarsometatarsus in the leg of a bird. It is formed by the union of the proximal part of the tarsus with the tibia. 

TIBRIE:  The pollack. [Prov. Eng.] 

TIC:  A local and habitual convulsive motion of certain muscles; especially, such a motion of some of the muscles of the face; twitching; velication; -- called also spasmodic tic. Dunglison. Tic douloureux (. Etym: [F., fr. tic a knack, a twitching + douloureux painful.] (Med.) Neuralgia in the face; face ague. See under Face. 

TICE:  To entice. [Obs.] The Coronation. 

TICE:  A ball bowled to strike the ground about a bat's length in front of the wicket. 

TICEMENT:  Enticement. [Obs.] 

TICHORRHINE:  A fossil rhinoceros with a vertical bony medial septum supporting the nose; the hairy rhinoceros. 

TICK:  Credit; trust; as, to buy on, or upon, tick. 

TICK:  The whinchat; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] Death tick. (Zoöl.) See Deathwatch. 

TICK:  To check off by means of a tick or any small mark; to score. When I had got all my responsibilities down upon my list, I compared each with the bill and ticked it off. Dickens. 

TICKEN:  See Ticking. [R.] R. Browning. 

TICKER:  One who, or that which, ticks, or produces a ticking sound, as a watch or clock, a telegraphic sounder, etc. Ticker tape Tape from or designed to be used in a stock ticker, usu. of paper and being narrow but long.  -- Stock ticker, an electro-mechanical information receiving device connected by telegraphic wire to a stock exchange, and which prints out the latest transactions or news on stock exchanges, commonly found in the offices of stock brokers. By 1980 largely superseded by electronic stock quotation devices. ticker tape parade A parade to honor a person, held in New York City, during which people in the tall buildings of Manhattan throw large quantities of paper, confetti, paper ribbons, or the like onto the parading group. The name comes form the ticker tape originally thrown onto the parade when it passed stockbrokers' offices in lower Manhattan, before stock tickers became obsolete. 

TICKET:  A small piece of paper, cardboard, or the like, serving as a notice, certificate, or distinguishing token of something. Specifically: -- (a) A little note or notice. [Obs. or Local] He constantly read his lectures twice a week for above forty years, giving notice of the time to his auditors in a ticket on the school doors. Fuller.  (b) A tradesman's bill or account. [Obs.]  Note: Hence the phrase on ticket, on account; whence, by abbreviation, came the phrase on tick. See 1st Tick. Your courtier is mad to take up silks and velvets On ticket for his mistress. J. Cotgrave.  (c) A certificate or token of right of admission to a place of assembly, or of passage in a public conveyance; as, a theater ticket; a railroad or steamboat ticket. (d) A label to show the character or price of goods. (e) A certificate or token of a share in a lottery or other scheme for distributing money, goods, or the like. (f) (Politics) A printed list of candidates to be voted for at an election; a set of nominations by one party for election; a ballot. [U.S.] The old ticket forever! We have it by thirty-four votes. Sarah Franklin (1766). Scratched ticket, a ticket from which the names of one or more of the candidates are scratched out.  -- Split ticket, a ticket representing different divisions of a party, or containing candidates selected from two or more parties.  -- Straight ticket, a ticket containing the regular nominations of a party, without change.  -- Ticket day (Com.), the day before the settling or pay day on the stock exchange, when the names of the actual purchasers are rendered in by one stockbroker to another. [Eng.] Simmonds.  -- Ticket of leave, a license or permit given to a convict, or prisoner of the crown, to go at large, and to labor for himself before the expiration of his sentence, subject to certain specific conditions. [Eng.] Simmonds.  -- Ticket porter, a licensed porter wearing a badge by which he may be identified. [Eng.] 

TICKETING:  A periodical sale of ore in the English mining districts; -- so called from the tickets upon which are written the bids of the buyers. 

TICKING:  A strong, closely woven linen or cotton fabric, of which ticks for beds are made. It is usually twilled, and woven in stripes of different colors, as white and blue; -- called also ticken. 

TICKLE:  Uncertain; inconstant; slippery. [Obs. & R.] Beau. & Fl. 

TICKLENBURG:  A coarse, mixed linen fabric made to be sold in the West Indies. 

TICKLENESS:  Unsteadiness. [Obs.] For hoard hath hate, and climbing tickleness. Chaucer. 

TICKTACK:  With a ticking noise, like that of a watch. 

TICPOLONGA:  A very venomous viper (Daboia Russellii), native of Ceylon and India; -- called also cobra monil. 

TID:  Tender; soft; nice; -- now only used in tidbit. 

TIDAL:  Of or pertaining to tides; caused by tides; having tides; periodically rising and falling, or following and ebbing; as, tidal waters. The tidal wave of deeper souls Into our inmost being rolls, And lifts us unawares Out of all meaner cares. Longfellow. Tidal air (Physiol.), the air which passes in and out of the lungs in ordinary breathing. It varies from twenty to thirty cubic inches.  -- Tidal basin, a dock that is filled at the rising of the tide.  -- Tidal wave. (a) See Tide wave, under Tide. Cf. 4th Bore. (b) A vast, swift wave caused by an earthquake or some extraordinary combination of natural causes. It rises far above high-water mark and is often very destructive upon low-lying coasts. 

TIDBIT:  A delicate or tender piece of anything eatable; a delicious morsel. [Written also titbit.] 

TIDDE:  imp. of Tide, v. i. Chaucer.  TIDDER; TIDDLE Tid"der, Tid"dle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. AS. tyderian to grow tender. See Tid.]  To use with tenderness; to fondle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

TIDDLEDYWINKS:  A game in which the object is to snap small disks of bone, ivory, or the like, from a flat surface, as of a table, into a small cup or basket; --called also tiddlywinks. [U. S.] 

TIDDLYWINKS:  Same as Tiddledywinks.  Kipling. 

TIDE:  The period of twelve hours. Atmospheric tides, tidal movements of the atmosphere similar to those of the ocean, and produced in the same manner by the attractive forces of the sun and moon.  -- Inferior tide. See under Inferior, a.  -- To work double tides. See under Work, v. t.  -- Tide day, the interval between the occurrences of two consecutive maxima of the resultant wave at the same place. Its length varies as the components of sun and moon waves approach to, or recede from, one another. A retardation from this cause is called the lagging of the tide, while the acceleration of the recurrence of high water is termed the priming of the tide. See Lag of the tide, under 2d Lag.  -- Tide dial, a dial to exhibit the state of the tides at any time.  -- Tide gate. (a) An opening through which water may flow freely when the tide sets in one direction, but which closes automatically and prevents the water from flowing in the other direction. (b) (Naut.) A place where the tide runs with great velocity, as through a gate.  -- Tide gauge, a gauge for showing the height of the tide; especially, a contrivance for registering the state of the tide continuously at every instant of time. Brande & C.  -- Tide lock, a lock situated between an inclosed basin, or a canal, and the tide water of a harbor or river, when they are on different levels, so that craft can pass either way at all times of the tide; - - called also guard lock.  -- Tide mill. (a) A mill operated by the tidal currents. (b) A mill for clearing lands from tide water.  -- Tide rip, a body of water made rough by the conflict of opposing tides or currents.  -- Tide table, a table giving the time of the rise and fall of the tide at any place.  -- Tide water, water affected by the flow of the tide; hence, broadly, the seaboard.  -- Tide wave, or Tidal wave, the swell of water as the tide moves. That of the ocean is called primitive; that of bays or channels derivative. Whewell.  -- Tide wheel, a water wheel so constructed as to be moved by the ebb or flow of the tide. 

TIDE:  To cause to float with the tide; to drive or carry with the tide or stream. They are tided down the stream. Feltham. 

TIDE:  To work into or out of a river or harbor by drifting with the tide and anchoring when it becomes adverse. 

TIDED:  Affected by the tide; having a tide. "The tided Thames." Bp. Hall. 

TIDELAND:  Land that is overflowed by tide water; hence, land near the sea. 

TIDELESS:  Having no tide.  TIDE-RODE Tide"-rode`, a. (Naut.)  Swung by the tide when at anchor; -- opposed to wind-rode. 

TIDESMAN:  A customhouse officer who goes on board of a merchant ship to secure payment of the duties; a tidewaiter. 

TIDEWAITER:  A customhouse officer who watches the landing of goods from merchant vessels, in order to secure payment of duties. Swift. 

TIDEWAY:  Channel in which the tide sets. 

TIDIFE:  The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.]  Note: The "tidif" mentioned in Chaucer is by some supposed to be the titmouse, by others the wren. 

TIDILY:  In a tidy manner. 

TIDINESS:  The quality or state of being tidy. 

TIDING:  Tidings. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TIDINGS:  Account of what has taken place, and was not before known; news. I shall make my master glad with these tidings. Shak. Full well the busy whisper, circling round, Conveyed the dismal tidings when he frowned. Goldsmith.  Note: Although tidings is plural in form, it has been used also as a singular. By Shakespeare it was used indiscriminately as a singular or plural. Now near the tidings of our comfort is. Shak. Tidings to the contrary Are brought your eyes. Shak.  Syn.  -- News; advice; information; intelligence.  -- Tidings, News. The term news denotes recent intelligence from any quarter; the term tidings denotes intelligence expected from a particular quarter, showing what has there betided. We may be indifferent as to news, but are always more or less interested in tidings. We read the news daily; we wait for tidings respecting an absent friend or an impending battle. We may be curious to hear the news; we are always anxious for tidings. Evil news rides post, while good news baits. Milton. What tidings dost thou bring Addison. 

TIDOLOGY:  A discourse or treatise upon the tides; that part of science which treats of tides. J. S. Mill. 

TIDY:  The wren; -- called also tiddy. [Prov. Eng.] The tidy for her notes as delicate as they. Drayton.  Note: This name is probably applied also to other small singing birds, as the goldcrest. 

TIDY:  To put in proper order; to make neat; as, to tidy a room; to tidy one's dress. 

TIDY:  To make things tidy. [Colloq.] I have tidied and tidied over and over again. Dickens. 

TIDYTIPS:  A California composite plant (Layia platyglossa), the flower of which has yellow rays tipped with white. 

TIE:  A beam or rod for holding two parts together; in railways, one of the transverse timbers which support the track and keep it in place.  6. (Mus.)  A line, usually straight, drawn across the stems of notes, or a curved line written over or under the notes, signifying that they are to be slurred, or closely united in the performance, or that two notes of the same pitch are to be sounded as one; a bind; a ligature.  7. pl.  Low shoes fastened with lacings. Bale tie, a fastening for the ends of a hoop for a bale. 

TIE:  To unite, as notes, by a cross line, or by a curved line, or slur, drawn over or under them.  6. To make an equal score with, in a contest; to be even with. To ride and tie. See under Ride.  -- To tie down. (a) To fasten so as to prevent from rising. (b) To restrain; to confine; to hinder from action.  -- To tie up, to confine; to restrain; to hinder from motion or action. 

TIE:  To make a tie; to make an equal score. 

TIEBAR:  A flat bar used as a tie. 

TIEBEAM:  A beam acting as a tie, as at the bottom of a pair of principal rafters, to prevent them from thrusting out the wall. See Illust. of Timbers, under Roof. Gwilt. 

TIENDA:  In Cuba, Mexico, etc., a booth, stall, or shop where merchandise is sold. 

TIER:  One who, or that which, ties. 

TIER:  A chold's apron covering the upper part of the body, and tied with tape or cord; a pinafore. [Written also tire.] 

TIER:  A row or rank, especially one of two or more rows placed one above, or higher than, another; as, a tier of seats in a theater. Tiers of a cable, the ranges of fakes, or windings, of a cable, laid one within another when coiled. 

TIERCE:  The third tone of the scale. See Mediant.  4. A sequence of three playing cards of the same suit. Tierce of ace, king, queen, is called tierce-major.  5. (Fencing)  A position in thrusting or parrying in which the wrist and nails are turned downward.  6. (R. C. Ch.)  The third hour of the day, or nine a.m.; one of the canonical hours; also, the service appointed for that hour. 

TIERCE:  Divided into three equal parts of three different tinctures; -- said of an escutcheon.  TIERCEL; TIERCELET Tier"cel, Tierce"let, n. Etym: [OE. tercel, tercelet, F. tiercelet, a dim. of (assumed) tiercel, or LL. tertiolus, dim. fr. L. tertius the third; -- so called, according to some, because every third bird in the nest is a male, or, according to others, because the male is the third part less than female. Cf. Tercel.] (Falconry)  The male of various falcons, esp. of the peregrine; also, the male of the goshawk. Encyc. Brit.  TIERCE-MAJOR Tierce"-ma`jor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tierce majeure.] (Card Playing)  See Tierce, 4. 

TIERCET:  A triplet; three lines, or three lines rhyming together.  TIE-ROD Tie"-rod, n.  A rod used as a tie. See Tie.  TIERS ETAT Tiers` é`tat". Etym: [F.]  The third estate, or commonalty, in France, answering to the commons in Great Britain; -- so called in distinction from, and as inferior to, the nobles and clergy.  Note: The refusal of the clergy and nobility to give the tiers état a representation in the States-general proportioned to their actual numbers had an important influence in bringing on the French Revolution of 1789. Since that time the term has been purely historical. 

TIETICK:  The meadow pipit. [Prov. Eng]. 

TIEWIG:  A wig having a tie or ties, or one having some of the curls tied up; also, a wig tied upon the head. Wright. V. Knox. 

TIFF:  To be in a pet. She tiffed with Tim, she ran from Ralph. Landor. 

TIFF:  To deck out; to dress. [Obs.] A. Tucker. 

TIFFANY:  A species of gause, or very silk. The smoke of sulphur . . . is commonly used by women to whiten tiffanies. Sir T. Browne. 

TIFFIN:  A lunch, or slight repast between breakfast and dinner; -- originally, a Provincial English word, but introduced into India, and brought back to England in a special sense. 

TIFFISH:  Inclined to tiffs; peevish; petulant. 

TIFT:  A fit of pettishness, or slight anger; a tiff. After all your fatigue you seem as ready for a tift with me as if you had newly come from church. Blackwood's Mag. 

TIGELLA:  That part of an embryo which represents the young stem; the caulicle or radicle. 

TIGELLE:  Same as Tigella. 

TIGER:  A siliceous stone of a yellow color and chatoyant luster, obtained in South Africa and much used for ornament. It is an altered form of the mineral crocidolite. See Crocidolite.  TIGER-FOOT Ti"ger-foot`, n. (Bot.)  Same as Tiger's-foot.  TIGER-FOOTED Ti"ger-foot`ed, a.  Hastening to devour; furious. 

TIGERINE:  Tigerish; tigrine. [R.] 

TIGERISH:  Like a tiger; tigrish.  TIGER'S-FOOT Ti"ger's-foot`, n. (Bot.)  A name given to some species of morning-glory (Ipomoea) having the leaves lobed in pedate fashion. 

TIGH:  A close, or inclosure; a croft. [Obs.] Cowell. 

TIGHT:  p. p. of Tie. Spenser. 

TIGHT:  Pressing; stringent; not easy; firmly held; dear; -- said of money or the money market. Cf. Easy, 7. 

TIGHT:  To tighten. [Obs.] 

TIGHTEN:  To draw tighter; to straiten; to make more close in any manner. Just where I please, with tightened rein I'll urge thee round the dusty plain. Fawkes. Tightening pulley (Mach.), a pulley which rests, or is forced, against a driving belt to tighten it. 

TIGHTENER:  That which tightens; specifically (Mach.), a tightening pulley. 

TIGHTER:  A ribbon or string used to draw clothes closer. [Obs.] 

TIGHTLY:  In a tight manner; closely; nearly. 

TIGHTNESS:  The quality or condition of being tight. 

TIGHTS:  Close-fitting garments, especially for the lower part of the body and the legs. 

TIGLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7CO2H (called also methyl crotonic acid), homologous with crotonic acid, and obtained from croton oil (from Croton Tiglium) as a white crystalline substance. 

TIGRESS:  The female of the tiger. Holland. 

TIGRINE:  Resembling the tiger in color; as, the tigrine cat (Felis tigrina) of South America. 

TIGRISH:  Resembling a tiger; tigerish. 

TIKE:  A tick. See 2d Tick. [Obs.] 

TIKOR:  A starch or arrow-root made from the tubes of an East Indian zinziberaceous plant (Curcuma angustifolia); also, the plant itself.  TIKUR; TIKOOR Ti*kur", Ti*koor", n. [Hind. tikr.]  An East Indian tree (Garcinia pedunculata) having a large yellow fleshy fruit with a pleasant acid flavor. 

TIKUS:  The bulau. 

TIL:  See Till. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TILBURY:  A kind of gig or two-wheeled carriage, without a top or cover. [Written also tilburgh.] 

TILDE:  The accentual mark placed over n, and sometimes over l, in Spanish words [thus, ñ, l], indicating that, in pronunciation, the sound of the following vowel is to be preceded by that of the initial, or consonantal, y. 

TILE:  To protect from the intrusion of the uninitiated; as, to tile a Masonic lodge. 

TILE:  A small, flat piece of dried earth or earthenware, used to cover vessels in which metals are fused.  4. A draintile.  5. A stiff hat. [Colloq.] Dickens. Tile drain, a drain made of tiles.  -- Tile earth, a species of strong, clayey earth; stiff and stubborn land. [Prov. Eng.] -- Tile kiln, a kiln in which tiles are burnt; a tilery.  -- Tile ore (Min.), an earthy variety of cuprite.  -- Tile red, light red like the color of tiles or bricks.  -- Tile tea, a kind of hard, flat brick tea. See Brick tea, under Brick. 

TILE:  To drain by means of tiles; to furnish with a tile drain. 

TILEFISH:  A large, edible, deep-water food fish (Lopholatilus chamæleonticeps) more or less thickly covered with large, round, yellow spots.  Note: It was discovered off the Eastern coast of the United States in 1880, and was abundant in 1881, but is believed to have become extinct in 1882. 

TILER:  A man whose occupation is to cover buildings with tiles. Bancroft. 

TILER:  A doorkeeper or attendant at a lodge of Freemasons. [Written also tyler.] 

TILERY:  A place where tiles are made or burned; a tile kiln. 

TILESEED:  Any plant of the genus Geissois, having seeds overlapping like tiles on a roof. 

TILESTONE:  A kind of laminated shale or sandstone belonging to some of the layers of the Upper Silurian.  2. A tile of stone. 

TILIA:  A genus of trees, the lindens, the type of the family Tiliaceæ, distinguished by the winglike bract coalescent with the peduncle, and by the indehiscent fruit having one or two seeds. There are about twenty species, natives of temperate regions.  Many species are planted as ornamental shade trees, and the tough fibrous inner bark is a valuable article of commerce. Also, a plant of this genus. 

TILIACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Tiliaceæ) of which the linden (Tilia) is the type. The order includes many plants which furnish a valuable fiber, as the jute. 

TILL:  A vetch; a tare. [Prov. Eng.] 

TILL:  A drawer. Specifically: (a) A tray or drawer in a chest. (b) A money drawer in a shop or store. Till alarm, a device for sounding an alarm when a money drawer is opened or tampered with. 

TILL:  A deposit of clay, sand, and gravel, without lamination, formed in a glacier valley by means of the waters derived from the melting glaciers; -- sometimes applied to alluvium of an upper river terrace, when not laminated, and appearing as if formed in the same manner.  2. A kind of coarse, obdurate land. Loudon. 

TILL:  To; unto; up to; as far as; until; -- now used only in respect to time, but formerly, also, of place, degree, etc., and still so used in Scotland and in parts of England and Ireland; as, I worked till four o'clock; I will wait till next week. He . . . came till an house. Chaucer. Women, up till this Cramped under worse than South-sea-isle taboo. Tennyson. Similar sentiments will recur to every one familiar with his writings -- all through them till the very end. Prof. Wilson. Till now, to the present time.  -- Till then, to that time. 

TILL:  As far as; up to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; that is, to the time specified in the sentence or clause following; until. And said unto them, Occupy till I come. Luke xix. 13. Mediate so long till you make some act of prayer to God. Jer. Taylor. There was no outbreak till the regiment arrived. Macaulay.  Note: This use may be explained by supposing an ellipsis of when, or the time when, the proper conjunction or conjunctive adverb begin when. 

TILL:  To cultivate land. Piers Plowman. 

TILLABLE:  Capable of being tilled; fit for the plow; arable. 

TILLANDSIA:  A genus of epiphytic endogenous plants found in the Southern United States and in tropical America. Tillandsia usneoides, called long moss, black moss, Spanish moss, and Florida moss, has a very slender pendulous branching stem, and forms great hanging tufts on the branches of trees. It is often used for stuffing mattresses. 

TILLER:  One who tills; a husbandman; a cultivator; a plowman. 

TILLER:  To put forth new shoots from the root, or round the bottom of the original stalk; as, wheat or rye tillers; some spread plants by tillering. [Sometimes written tillow.] 

TILLER:  A lever of wood or metal fitted to the rudder head and used for turning side to side in steering. In small boats hand power is used; in large vessels, the tiller is moved by means of mechanical appliances. See Illust. of Rudder. Cf. 2d Helm, 1.  2. The stalk, or handle, of a crossbow; also, sometimes, the bow itself. [Obs.] You can shoot in a tiller. Beau. & Fl.  3. The handle of anything. [Prov. Eng.]  4. A small drawer; a till. Dryden. Tiller rope (Naut.), a rope for turning a tiller. In a large vessel it forms the connection between the fore end of the tiller and the steering wheel.  TILLEY; TILLEY SEED Til"ley, n., or Til"ley seed`. (Bot.)  The seeds of a small tree (Croton Pavana) common in the Malay Archipelago. These seeds furnish croton oil, like those of Croton Tiglium. [Written also tilly.] 

TILLMAN:  A man who tills the earth; a husbandman. [Obs.] Tusser. 

TILLODONT:  One of the Tillodontia. 

TILLODONTIA:  An extinct group of Mammalia found fossil in the Eocene formation. The species are related to the carnivores, ungulates, and rodents. Called also Tillodonta. 

TILLOT:  A bag made of thin glazed muslin, used as a wrapper for dress goods. McElrath. 

TILLOW:  See 3d Tiller.  TILLY-VALLY Til"ly-val`ly, interj., adv., or a.  A word of unknown origin and signification, formerly used as expressive of contempt, or when anything said was reject as trifling or impertinent. [Written also tille-vally, tilly-fally, tille-fally, and otherwise.] Shak. 

TILMUS:  Floccillation.  TIL SEED Til seed (til; tel).  (a) The seed of sesame.  (b) The seed of an African asteraceous plant (Guizotia abyssinica), yielding a bland fixed oil used in medicine. 

TILT:  A cloth cover of a boat; a small canopy or awning extended over the sternsheets of a boat. Tilt boat (Naut.), a boat covered with canvas or other cloth.  -- Tilt roof (Arch.), a round-headed roof, like the canopy of a wagon. 

TILT:  To cover with a tilt, or awning. 

TILTH:  A tilted hammer; a heavy hammer, used in iron works, which is lifted or tilted by projections or wipers on a revolving shaft; a trip hammer. 

TILTING:  A mill where a tilt hammer is used, or where the process of tilting is carried on.  TIL TREE Til" tree`. (Bot.)  See Teil.  TILT-UP Tilt"-up`, n. (Zoöl.)  Same as Tip-up.  TILT-YARD Tilt"-yard`, n.  A yard or place for tilting. "The tilt-yard of Templestowe." Sir W. Scott. 

TIMAL:  The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

TIMALINE:  Of or pertaining to the genus Timalus or family Timalidæ, which includes the babblers thrushes, and bulbuls. 

TIMBAL:  A kettledrum. See Tymbal. 

TIMBALE:  A seasoned preparation, as of chicken, lobster, cheese, or fish, cooked in a drum-shaped mold; also, a pastry case, usually small, filled with a cooked mixture. 

TIMBER:  A certain quantity of fur skins, as of martens, ermines, sables, etc., packed between boards; being in some cases forty skins, in others one hundred and twenty; -- called also timmer. [Written also timbre.] 

TIMBER:  The crest on a coat of arms. [Written also timbre.] 

TIMBER:  To surmount as a timber does. [Obs.] 

TIMBER:  A rib, or a curving piece of wood, branching outward from the keel and bending upward in a vertical direction. One timber is composed of several pieces united. Timber and room. (Shipbuilding) Same as Room and space. See under Room.  -- Timber beetle (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of beetles the larvæ of which bore in timber; as, the silky timber beetle (Lymexylon sericeum).  -- Timber doodle (Zoöl.), the American woodcock. [Local, U.S.] -- Timber grouse (Zoöl.), any species of grouse that inhabits woods, as the ruffed grouse and spruce partridge; -- distinguished from prairie grouse.  -- Timber hitch (Naut.), a kind of hitch used for temporarily marking fast a rope to a spar. See Illust. under Hitch.  -- Timber mare, a kind of instrument upon which soldiers were formerly compelled to ride for punishment. Johnson.  -- Timber scribe, a metal tool or pointed instrument for marking timber. Simmonds.  -- Timber sow. (Zoöl.) Same as Timber worm, below. Bacon.  -- Timber tree, a tree suitable for timber.  -- Timber worm (Zoöl.), any larval insect which burrows in timber.  -- Timber yard, a yard or place where timber is deposited. 

TIMBER:  To furnish with timber; -- chiefly used in the past participle. His bark is stoutly timbered. Shak. 

TIMBER:  To make a nest. 

TIMBERHEAD:  The top end of a timber, rising above the gunwale, and serving for belaying ropes, etc.; -- called also kevel head. 

TIMBERING:  The act of furnishing with timber; also, timbers, collectively; timberwork; timber. 

TIMBERLING:  A small tree. [Eng.] 

TIMBERMAN:  A man employed in placing supports of timber in a mine. Weale. 

TIMBERWORK:  Work made of timbers. 

TIMBRE:  See 1st Timber. 

TIMBRE:  The crest on a coat of arms.  2. (Mus.)  The quality or tone distinguishing voices or instruments; tone color; clang tint; as, the timbre of the voice; the timbre of a violin. See Tone, and Partial tones, under Partial. 

TIMBREL:  A kind of drum, tabor, or tabret, in use from the highest antiquity. Miriam . . . took a timbrel in her hand, and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances. Ex. xv. 20.  TIMBRELED; TIMBRELLED Tim"breled, Tim"brelled, a.  Sung to the sound of the timbrel. "In vain with timbreled anthems dark." Milton. 

TIMBURINE:  A tambourine. [Obs.] 

TIME:  Tense.  10. (Mus.)  The measured duration of sounds; measure; tempo; rate of movement; rhythmical division; as, common or triple time; the musician keeps good time. Some few lines set unto a solemn time. Beau. & Fl.  Note: Time is often used in the formation of compounds, mostly self- explaining; as, time-battered, time-beguiling, time-consecrated, time-consuming, time-enduring, time-killing, time-sanctioned, time- scorner, time-wasting, time-worn, etc. Absolute time, time irrespective of local standards or epochs; as, all spectators see a lunar eclipse at the same instant of absolute time.  -- Apparent time, the time of day reckoned by the sun, or so that 12 o'clock at the place is the instant of the transit of the sun's center over the meridian.  -- Astronomical time, mean solar time reckoned by counting the hours continuously up to twenty-four from one noon to the next.  -- At times, at distinct intervals of duration; now and then; as, at times he reads, at other times he rides.  -- Civil time, time as reckoned for the purposes of common life in distinct periods, as years, months, days, hours, etc., the latter, among most modern nations, being divided into two series of twelve each, and reckoned, the first series from midnight to noon, the second, from noon to midnight.  -- Common time (Mil.), the ordinary time of marching, in which ninety steps, each twenty-eight inches in length, are taken in one minute.  -- Equation of time. See under Equation, n.  -- In time. (a) In good season; sufficiently early; as, he arrived in time to see the exhibition. (b) After a considerable space of duration; eventually; finally; as, you will in time recover your health and strength.  -- Mean time. See under 4th Mean.  -- Quick time (Mil.), time of marching, in which one hundred and twenty steps, each thirty inches in length, are taken in one minute.  -- Sidereal time. See under Sidereal.  -- Standard time, the civil time that has been established by law or by general usage over a region or country. In England the standard time is Greenwich mean solar time. In the United States and Canada four kinds of standard time have been adopted by the railroads and accepted by the people, viz., Eastern, Central, Mountain, and Pacific time, corresponding severally to the mean local times of the 75th, 90th, 105th, and 120th meridians west from Greenwich, and being therefore five, six, seven, and eight hours slower than Greenwich time.  -- Time ball, a ball arranged to drop from the summit of a pole, to indicate true midday time, as at Greenwich Observatory, England. Nichol.  -- Time bargain (Com.), a contract made for the sale or purchase of merchandise, or of stock in the public funds, at a certain time in the future.  -- Time bill. Same as Time-table. [Eng.] -- Time book, a book in which is kept a record of the time persons have worked.  -- Time detector, a timepiece provided with a device for registering and indicating the exact time when a watchman visits certain stations in his beat.  -- Time enough, in season; early enough. "Stanly at Bosworth field, . . . came time enough to save his life." Bacon.  -- Time fuse, a fuse, as for an explosive projectile, which can be so arranged as to ignite the charge at a certain definite interval after being itself ignited.  -- Time immemorial, or Time out of mind. (Eng. Law) See under Immemorial.  -- Time lock, a lock having clockwork attached, which, when wound up, prevents the bolt from being withdrawn when locked, until a certain interval of time has elapsed.  -- Time of day, salutation appropriate to the times of the day, as "good morning," "good evening," and the like; greeting.  -- To kill time. See under Kill, v. t.  -- To make time. (a) To gain time. (b) To occupy or use (a certain) time in doing something; as, the trotting horse made fast time.  -- To move, run, or go, against time, to move, run, or go a given distance without a competitor, in the quickest possible time; or, to accomplish the greatest distance which can be passed over in a given time; as, the horse is to run against time.  -- True time. (a) Mean time as kept by a clock going uniformly. (b) (Astron.) Apparent time as reckoned from the transit of the sun's center over the meridian. 

TIMEFUL:  Seasonable; timely; sufficiently early. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.  TIME-HONORED Time"-hon`ored, a.  Honored for a long time; venerable, and worthy of honor, by reason of antiquity, or long continuance. 

TIMELESSLY:  In a timeless manner; unseasonably. [R.] Milton. 

TIMELINESS:  The quality or state of being timely; seasonableness; opportuneness. 

TIMELING:  A timeserver. [Obs.] 

TIMELY:  Early; soon; in good season. Timely advised, the coming evil shun. Prior. Thanks to you, That called me timelier than my purpose hither, For I have gained by it. Shak. 

TIMENOGUY:  A rope carried taut between or over obstacles likely to engage or foul the running rigging in working a ship. 

TIMEOUS:  Timely; seasonable. [R. or Scot.] -- Time"ous*ly, adv. [R. or Scot.] 

TIMEPIECE:  A clock, watch, or other instrument, to measure or show the progress of time; a chronometer. 

TIMEPLEASER:  One who complies with prevailing opinions, whatever they may be; a timeserver. Timepleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness. Shak.  TIME POLICY Time policy. (Insurance)  A policy limited to become void at a specified time; -- often contrasted with voyage policy. 

TIMER:  A timekeeper; especially, a watch by which small intervals of time can be measured; a kind of stop watch. It is used for timing the speed of horses, machinery, etc. 

TIMESAVING:  Saving time; as, a timesaving expedient. 

TIMESERVER:  One who adapts his opinions and manners to the times; one who obsequiously compiles with the ruling power; -- now used only in a bad sense. 

TIMESERVING:  Obsequiously complying with the spirit of the times, or the humors of those in power. 

TIMESERVING:  An obsequious compliance with the spirit of the times, or the humors of those in power, which implies a surrender of one's independence, and sometimes of one's integrity.  Syn.  -- Temporizing.  -- Timeserving, Temporizing. Both these words are applied to the conduct of one who adapts himself servilely to times and seasons. A timeserver is rather active, and a temporizer, passive. One whose policy is timeserving comes forward to act upon principles or opinions which may promote his advancement; one who is temporizing yields to the current of public sentiment or prejudice, and shrinks from a course of action which might injure him with others. The former is dishonest; the latter is weak; and both are contemptible. Trimming and timeserving, which are but two words for the same thing, . . . produce confusion. South. [I] pronounce thee . . . a hovering temporizer, that Canst with thine eyes at once see good and evil, Inclining to them both. Shak.  TIME SIGNATURE Time signature. (Music)  A sign at the beginning of a composition or movement, placed after the key signature, to indicate its time or meter. Also called rhythmical signature. It is in the form of a fraction, of which the denominator indicates the kind of note taken as time unit for the beat, and the numerator, the number of these to the measure.  TIME-TABLE Time"-ta`ble, n.  1. A tabular statement of the time at which, or within which, several things are to take place, as the recitations in a school, the departure and arrival of railroad trains or other public conveyances, the rise and fall of the tides, etc.  2. (Railroad)  A plane surface divided in one direction with lines representing hours and minutes, and in the other with lines representing miles, and having diagonals (usually movable strings) representing the speed and position of various trains.  3. (Mus.)  A table showing the notation, length, or duration of the several notes. 

TIMID:  Wanting courage to meet danger; easily frightened; timorous; not bold; fearful; shy. Poor is the triumph o'er the timid hare. Thomson.  Syn.  -- Fearful; timorous; afraid; cowardly; pusillanimous; faint- hearted; shrinking; retiring.  -- Tim"id*ly, adv.  -- Tim"id*ness, n. 

TIMIDITY:  The quality or state of being timid; timorousness; timidness. 

TIMIDOUS:  Timid. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

TIMIST:  A performer who keeps good time.  2. A timeserver. [Obs.] Overbury. 

TIMMER:  Same as 1st Timber. [Scot.] 

TIMOCRATIC:  Belonging to, or constituted by, timocracy. Sir G. C. Lewis. 

TIMONEER:  A helmsman. [R.] 

TIMORSOME:  Easily frightened; timorous. [Written also timersome.] [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.  TIMOTHY; TIMOTHY GRASS Tim"o*thy, n., or Tim"o*thy grass`. Etym: [From Timothy Hanson, who carried the seed from New England to Maryland about 1720.] (Bot.)  A kind of grass (Phleum pratense) with long cylindrical spikes; -- called also herd's grass, in England, cat's-tail grass, and meadow cat's-tail grass. It is much prized for fodder. See Illustration in Appendix. 

TIMOUS:  Timely; seasonable. [Obs.] Bacon.  -- Tim"ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

TIMPANO:  See Tympano.  TIM-WHISKEY Tim"-whis`key, n.  A kind of carriage. See Whiskey. Southery. 

TIN:  An elementary substance found as an oxide in the mineral cassiterite, and reduced as a soft white crystalline metal, malleable at ordinary temperatures, but brittle when heated. It is not easily oxidized in the air, and is used chiefly to coat iron to protect it from rusting, in the form of tin foil with mercury to form the reflective surface of mirrors, and in solder, bronze, speculum metal, and other alloys. Its compounds are designated as stannous, or stannic. Symbol Sn (Stannum). Atomic weight 117.4.  2. Thin plates of iron covered with tin; tin plate.  3. Money. [Cant] Beaconsfield. Block tin (Metal.), commercial tin, cast into blocks, and partially refined, but containing small quantities of various impurities, as copper, lead, iron, arsenic, etc.; solid tin as distinguished from tin plate; -- called also bar tin.  -- Butter of tin. (Old Chem.) See Fuming liquor of Libavius, under Fuming.  -- Grain tin. (Metal.) See under Grain.  -- Salt of tin (Dyeing), stannous chloride, especially so called when used as a mordant.  -- Stream tin. See under Stream.  -- Tin cry (Chem.), the peculiar creaking noise made when a bar of tin is bent. It is produced by the grating of the crystal granules on each other.  -- Tin foil, tin reduced to a thin leaf.  -- Tin frame (Mining), a kind of buddle used in washing tin ore.  -- Tin liquor, Tin mordant (Dyeing), stannous chloride, used as a mordant in dyeing and calico printing.  -- Tin penny, a customary duty in England, formerly paid to tithingmen for liberty to dig in tin mines. [Obs.] Bailey.  -- Tin plate, thin sheet iron coated with tin.  -- Tin pyrites. See Stannite. 

TIN:  To cover with tin or tinned iron, or to overlay with tin foil. 

TINAMIDES:  A division of struthious birds, including the tinamous. 

TINAMOU:  Any one of several species of South American birds belonging to Tinamus and allied genera.  Note: In general appearance and habits they resemble grouse and partridges, but in anatomical characters they are allied to the ostriches and other struthious birds. Their wings are of moderate length, and they are able to fly a considerable distance. 

TINCAL:  Crude native borax, formerly imported from Thibet. It was once the chief source of boric compounds. Cf. Borax. 

TINCHEL:  A circle of sportsmen, who, by surrounding an extensive space and gradually closing in, bring a number of deer and game within a narrow compass. [Scot.] We'll quell the savage mountaineer, As their tinchel cows the game! Sir W. Scott. 

TINCT:  Tined; tinged. [Archaic] Spenser. 

TINCT:  Color; tinge; tincture; tint. [Archaic] "Blue of heaven's own tinct." Shak. All the devices blazoned on the shield, In their own tinct. Tennyson. 

TINCT:  To color or stain; to imblue; to tint. [Archaic] Bacon. 

TINCTORIAL:  Of or relating to color or colors; imparting a color; as, tinctorial matter. Ure. 

TINCTURE:  One of the metals, colors, or furs used in armory.  Note: There are two metals: gold, called or, and represented in engraving by a white surface covered with small dots; and silver, called argent, and represented by a plain white surface. The colors and their representations are as follows: red, called gules, or a shading of vertical lines; blue, called azure, or horizontal lines; black, called sable, or horizontal and vertical lines crossing; green, called vert, or diagonal lines from dexter chief corner; purple, called purpure, or diagonal lines from sinister chief corner. The furs are ermine, ermines, erminois, pean, vair, counter vair, potent, and counter potent. See Illustration in Appendix.  3. The finer and more volatile parts of a substance, separated by a solvent; an extract of a part of the substance of a body communicated to the solvent.  4. (Med.)  A solution (commonly colored) of medicinal substance in alcohol, usually more or less diluted; spirit containing medicinal substances in solution.  Note: According to the United States Pharmacopoeia, the term tincture (also called alcoholic tincture, and spirituous tincture) is reserved for the alcoholic solutions of nonvolatile substances, alcoholic solutions of volatile substances being called spirits. Ethereal tincture, a solution of medicinal substance in ether.  5. A slight taste superadded to any substance; as, a tincture of orange peel.  6. A slight quality added to anything; a tinge; as, a tincture of French manners. All manners take a tincture from our own. Pope. Every man had a slight tincture of soldiership, and scarcely any man more than a slight tincture. Macaulay. 

TIND:  To kindle. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. 

TINDER:  Something very inflammable, used for kindling fire from a spark, as scorched linen. German tinder. Same as Amadou.  -- Tinder box, a box in which tinder is kept. 

TINE:  Trouble; distress; teen. [Obs.] "Cruel winter's tine." Spenser. 

TINE:  To kindle; to set on fire. [Obs.] See Tind. "To tine the cloven wood." Dryden. Coals of contention and hot vegneance tind. Spenser. 

TINE:  To kindle; to rage; to smart. [Obs.] Ne was there slave, ne was there medicine That mote recure their wounds; so inly they did tine. Spenser. 

TINE:  To shut in, or inclose. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

TINE:  A tooth, or spike, as of a fork; a prong, as of an antler. 

TINEA:  A name applied to various skin diseases, but especially to ringworm. See Ringworm, and Sycosis.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of small Lepidoptera, including the clothes moths and carpet moths. 

TINEAN:  Any species of Tinea, or of the family Tineidæ, which includes numerous small moths, many of which are injurious to woolen and fur goods and to cultivated plants. Also used adjectively. 

TINED:  Furnished with tines; as, a three-tined fork. 

TINEID:  Same as Tinean. 

TINEMAN:  An officer of the forest who had the care of vert and venison by night. [Obs.] 

TINET:  Brushwood and thorns for making and repairing hedges. [Obs. Eng.] 

TING:  A sharp sound, as of a bell; a tinkling. 

TING:  To sound or ring, as a bell; to tinkle. [R.] Holland. 

TING:  The apartment in a Chinese temple where the idol is kept. 

TINGE:  To imbue or impregnate with something different or foreign; as, to tinge a decoction with a bitter taste; to affect in some degree with the qualities of another substance, either by mixture, or by application to the surface; especially, to color slightly; to stain; as, to tinge a blue color with red; an infusion tinged with a yellow color by saffron. His [Sir Roger's] virtues, as well as imperfections, are tinged by a certain extravagance. Addison.  Syn.  -- To color; dye; stain. 

TINGE:  A degree, usually a slight degree, of some color, taste, or something foreign, infused into another substance or mixture, or added to it; tincture; color; dye; hue; shade; taste. His notions, too, respecting the government of the state, took a tinge from his notions respecting the government of the church. Macaulay. 

TINGENT:  Having the power to tinge. [R.] As for the white part, it appears much less enriched with the tingent property. Boyle. 

TINGER:  One who, or that which, tinges. 

TINGID:  Of or pertaining to the genus Tingis. 

TINGIS:  A genus of small hemipterous insects which injure trees by sucking the sap from the leaves. See Illustration in Appendix. 

TINK:  To make a sharp, shrill noise; to tinkle. Wyclif (1 Cor. xiii. 1). 

TINK:  A sharp, quick sound; a tinkle. 

TINKER:  A small mortar on the end of a staff.  4. (Zoöl.) (a) A young mackerel about two years old. (b) The chub mackerel. (c) The silversides. (d) A skate. [Prov. Eng.]  5. (Zoöl.)  The razor-billed auk. 

TINKER:  To mend or solder, as metal wares; hence, more generally, to mend. 

TINKER:  To busy one's self in mending old kettles, pans, etc.; to play the tinker; to be occupied with small mechanical works. 

TINKERING:  The act or work of a tinker. 

TINKERLY:  After the manner of a tinker. [R.]  TINKERSHIRE; TINKLE Tink"er*shire, Tin"kle, n. (Zoöl.)  The common guillemot. [Prov. Eng.] 

TINKLE:  To cause to clonk, or make small, sharp, quick sounds. 

TINKLE:  A small, sharp, quick sound, as that made by striking metal. Cowper. 

TINKLER:  A tinker. [Prov. Eng.] 

TINKLING:  A grackle (Quiscalus crassirostris) native of Jamaica. It often associates with domestic cattle, and rids them of insects. 

TINMAN:  A manufacturer of tin vessels; a dealer in tinware. 

TINMOUTH:  The crappie. [U.S.] 

TINNEN:  Made or consisting of tin. [Obs.] 

TINNIENT:  Emitting a clear sound. [Obs.] 

TINNITUS:  A ringing, whistling, or other imaginary noise perceived in the ears; -- called also tinnitus aurium. 

TINNOCK:  The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

TINNY:  Pertaining to, abounding with, or resembling, tin. "The tinny strand." Drayton. 

TINSEL:  Showy to excess; gaudy; specious; superficial. "Tinsel trappings." Milton. 

TINSEL:  To adorn with tinsel; to deck out with cheap but showy ornaments; to make gaudy. She, tinseled o'er in robes of varying hues. Pope. 

TINSELLY:  Like tinsel; gaudy; showy, but cheap. 

TINSELLY:  In a showy and cheap manner. 

TINSMITH:  One who works in tin; a tinner. 

TINSTONE:  Cassiterite. 

TINT:  A slight coloring. Specifically: -- (a) A pale or faint tinge of any color. Or blend in beauteous tints the colored mass. Pope. Their vigor sickens, and their tints decline. Harte.  (b) A color considered with reference to other very similar colors; as, red and blue are different colors, but two shades of scarlet are different tints. (c) (Engraving) A shaded effect produced by the juxtaposition of many fine parallel lines. Tint tool (Eng.), a species of graver used for cutting the parallel lines which produce tints in engraving. 

TINT:  To give a slight coloring to; to tinge. 

TINTAMAR:  A hideous or confused noise; an uproar. [Obs.] Howell. 

TINTERNELL:  A certain old dance. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

TINTIE:  The wren. [Prov. Eng.]  TINTINNABULAR; TINTINNABULARY Tin`tin*nab"u*lar, Tin`tin*nab"u*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. tintinnabuluma little bell, fr. tintinnare to ring, to jingle, tinnire to jingle.]  Having or making the sound of a bell; tinkling. 

TINTINNABULATION:  A tinkling sound, as of a bell or bells. Poe. 

TINTINNABULOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the tinkling of a bell; having a tinkling sound; tintinnabular. De Quincey. 

TINTINNABULUM:  A bell; also, a set or combination of bells or metal plates used as a musical instrument or as a toy. 

TINTO:  A red Madeira wine, wanting the high aroma of the white sorts, and, when old, resembling tawny port. 

TINTOMETER:  An apparatus for the determination of colors by comparison with arbitrary standards; a colorimeter. 

TINTYPE:  Same as Ferrotype. 

TINWARE:  Articles made of tinned iron. 

TINY:  Very small; little; puny. When that I was and a little tiny boy. Shak. 

TIP:  A piece of stiffened lining pasted on the inside of a hat crown.  4. A thin, boarded brush made of camel's hair, used by gilders in lifting gold leaf.  5. Rubbish thrown from a quarry. 

TIP:  To form a point upon; to cover the tip, top, or end of; as, to tip anything with gold or silver. With truncheon tipped with iron head. Hudibras. Tipped with jet, Fair ermines spotless as the snows they press. Thomson. 

TIP:  To fall on, or incline to, one side. Bunyan. To tip off, to fall off by tipping. 

TIPCART:  A cart so constructed that the body can be easily tipped, in order to dump the load. 

TIPCAT:  A game in which a small piece of wood pointed at both ends, called a cat, is tipped, or struck with a stick or bat, so as to fly into the air. In the middle of a game at tipcat, he paused, and stood staring wildly upward with his stick in his hand. Macaulay. 

TIPPER:  A kind of ale brewed with brackish water obtained from a particular well; -- so called from the first brewer of it, one Thomas Tipper. [Eng.] 

TIPPING:  A distinct articulation given in playing quick notes on the flute, by striking the tongue against the roof of the mouth; double- tonguing. 

TIPPLE:  To drink spirituous or strong liquors habitually; to indulge in the frequent and improper used of spirituous liquors; especially, to drink frequently in small quantities, but without absolute drunkeness. Few of those who were summoned left their homes, and those few generally found it more agreeable to tipple in alehouses than to pace the streets. Macaulay. 

TIPPLE:  Liquor taken in tippling; drink. Pulque, the national tipple of Mexico. S. B. Griffin. 

TIPPLED:  Intoxicated; inebriated; tipsy; drunk. [R.] Dryden. 

TIPPLER:  A house in which liquors are sold in drams or small quantities, to be drunk on the premises. 

TIPSIFY:  To make tipsy. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

TIPSILY:  In a tipsy manner; like one tipsy. 

TIPSINESS:  The state of being tipsy. 

TIPSTER:  One who makes a practice of giving or selling tips, or private hints or information, esp. for use in gambling upon the probable outcome of events, as horse races. 

TIPSTOCK:  The detachable or movable fore part of a gunstock, lying beneath the barrel or barrels, and forming a hold for the left hand. 

TIPTOE:  The end, or tip, of the toe. He must . . . stand on his typtoon [tiptoes]. Chaucer. Upon his tiptoes stalketh stately by. Spenser. To be, or To stand, a tiptoe or on tiptoe, to be awake or alive to anything; to be roused; to be eager or alert; as, to be a tiptoe with expectation. 

TIPTOE:  To step or walk on tiptoe. 

TIPTOP:  The highest or utmost degree; the best of anything. [Colloq.] 

TIPTOP:  Very excellent; most excellent; perfect. [Colloq.] "Four tiptop voices." Gray. "Sung in a tiptop manner." Goldsmith. 

TIPULA:  Any one of many species of long-legged dipterous insects belonging to Tipula and allied genera. They have long and slender bodies. See Crane fly, under Crane. 

TIPULARY:  Of or pertaining to the tipulas.  TIP-UP Tip"-up`, n. (Zoöl.)  The spotted sandpiper; -- called also teeter-tail. See under Sandpiper. 

TIRADE:  A declamatory strain or flight of censure or abuse; a rambling invective; an oration or harangue abounding in censorious and bitter language. Here he delivers a violent tirade against persons who profess to know anything about angels. Quarterly Review. 

TIRAILLEUR:  Formerly, a member of an independent body of marksmen in the French army. They were used sometimes in front of the army to annoy the enemy, sometimes in the rear to check his pursuit. The term is now applied to all troops acting as skirmishers. 

TIRE:  A tier, row, or rank. See Tier. [Obs.] In posture to displode their second tire Of thunder. Milton. 

TIRE:  A hoop or band, as of metal, on the circumference of the wheel of a vehicle, to impart strength and receive the wear.  Note: The iron tire of a wagon wheel or cart wheel binds the fellies together. The tire of a locomotive or railroad-car wheel is a heavy hoop of iron or steel shrunk tightly upon an iron central part. The wheel of a bicycle has a tire of India rubber. 

TIRE:  To adorn; to attire; to dress. [Obs.] [Jezebel] painted her face, and tired her head. 2 Kings ix. 30. 

TIRE:  To become weary; to be fatigued; to have the strength fail; to have the patience exhausted; as, a feeble person soon tires. 

TIRE:  To exhaust the strength of, as by toil or labor; to exhaust the patience of; to wear out (one's interest, attention, or the like); to weary; to fatigue; to jade. Shak. Tired with toil, all hopes of safety past. Dryden. To tire out, to weary or fatigue to exhaustion; to harass.  Syn.  -- To jade; weary; exhaust; harass. See Jade. 

TIRED:  Weary; fatigued; exhausted. 

TIREDNESS:  The state of being tired, or weary. 

TIRELESS:  Untiring. 

TIRELING:  Tired; fatigued. [Obs.] 

TIRESOME:  Fitted or tending to tire; exhausted; wearisome; fatiguing; tedious; as, a tiresome journey; a tiresome discourse.  -- Tire"some*ly, adv.  -- Tire"some*ness, n.  TIRE-WOMAN Tire"-wom`an, n.; pl. Tire-women. Etym: [See Tire attire, Attire.]  1. A lady's maid. Fashionableness of the tire-woman's making. Locke.  2. A dresser in a theater. Simmonds.  TIRING-HOUSE Tir"ing-house`, n. Etym: [For attiring house.]  A tiring-room. [Obs.] Shak.  TIRING-ROOM Tir"ing-room`, n. Etym: [For attiring room.]  The room or place where players dress for the stage. 

TIRMA:  The oyster catcher. [Prov. Eng.] 

TIRO:  Same as Tyro.  T IRON T" i`ron.  See under T. 

TIRONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Tiro, or a system of shorthand said to have been introduced by him into ancient Rome. 

TIRRALIRRA:  A verbal imitation of a musical sound, as of the note of a lark or a horn. The lark, that tirra lyra chants. Shak. "Tirralira, " by the river, Sang Sir Lancelot. Tennyson. 

TIRRIT:  A word from the vocabulary of Mrs. Quickly, the hostess in Shakespeare's Henry IV., probably meaning terror. 

TIRWIT:  The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.]  'T IS 'T is.  A common contraction of it is. 

TISANE:  See Ptisan. 

TISAR:  The fireplace at the side of an annealing oven. Knight.  TISIC; TISICAL Tis"ic, Tis"ic*al, a. Etym: [For phthisic, phthisical.]  Consumptive, phthisical. 

TISIC:  Consumption; phthisis. See Phthisis. 

TISICKY:  Consumptive, phthisical. 

TISRI:  The seventh month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of September with a part of October. 

TISSUE:  One of the elementary materials or fibres, having a uniform structure and a specialized function, of which ordinary animals and plants are composed; a texture; as, epithelial tissue; connective tissue.  Note: The term tissue is also often applied in a wider sense to all the materials or elementary tissues, differing in structure and function, which go to make up an organ; as, vascular tissue, tegumentary tissue, etc.  4. Fig.: Web; texture; complicated fabrication; connected series; as, a tissue of forgeries, or of falsehood. Unwilling to leave the dry bones of Agnosticism wholly unclothed with any living tissue of religious emotion. A. J. Balfour. Tissue paper, very thin, gauzelike paper, used for protecting engravings in books, for wrapping up delicate articles, etc. 

TISSUE:  To form tissue of; to interweave. Covered with cloth of gold tissued upon blue. Bacon. 

TISSUED:  Clothed in, or adorned with, tissue; also, variegated; as, tissued flowers. Cowper. And crested chiefs and tissued dames Assembled at the clarion's call. T. Warton. 

TITAN:  Titanic. The Titan physical difficulties of his enterprise. I. Taylor. 

TITANATE:  A salt of titanic acid.  TITAN CRANE Ti"tan crane. (Mach.)  A massive crane with an overhanging counterbalanced arm carrying a traveler and lifting crab, the whole supported by a carriage mounted on track rails. It is used esp. for setting heavy masonry blocks for piers, breakwaters, etc. 

TITANIC:  Of or relating to Titans, or fabled giants of ancient mythology; hence, enormous in size or strength; as, Titanic structures. 

TITANIC:  Of or pertaining to titanium; derived from, or containing, titanium; specifically, designating those compounds of titanium in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with the titanous compounds. Titanic acid (Chem.), a white amorphous powder, Ti.(OH)4, obtained by decomposing certain titanates; -- called also normal titanic acid. By extension, any one of a series of derived acids, called also metatitanic acid, polytitanic acid, etc.  -- Titanic iron ore. (Min.) See Menaccanite. 

TITANIFEROUS:  Containing or affording titanium; as, titaniferous magnetite. 

TITANITE:  See Sphene. 

TITANITIC:  Pertaining to, or containing, titanium; as, a titanitic mineral. 

TITANIUM:  An elementary substance found combined in the minerals manaccanite, rutile, sphene, etc., and isolated as an infusible iron- gray amorphous powder, having a metallic luster. It burns when heated in the air. Symbol Ti. Atomic weight 48.1.  TITANO- Ti"tan*o-. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) designating certain double compounds of titanium with some other elements; as, titano- cyanide, titano-fluoride, titano-silicate, etc. 

TITANOTHERIUM:  A large American Miocene mammal, allied to the rhinoceros, and more nearly to the extinct Brontotherium. 

TITANOUS:  Designating certain compounds of titanium in which that element has a lower valence as contrasted with titanic compounds. 

TITBIT:  Same as Tidbit. 

TITH:  Tight; nimble. [Obs.] Of a good stirring strain too, she goes tith. Beau. & Fl. 

TITHABLE:  Subject to the payment of tithes; as, tithable lands. 

TITHE:  Tenth. [Obs.] Every tithe soul, 'mongst many thousand. Shak. 

TITHE:  To levy a tenth part on; to tax to the amount of a tenth; to pay tithes on. Ye tithe mint and rue. Luke xi. 42. 

TITHE:  Tp pay tithes. [R.] Tusser. 

TITHING:  A number or company of ten householders who, dwelling near each other, were sureties or frankpledges to the king for the good behavior of each other; a decennary. Blackstone. 

TITHINGMAN:  The chief man of a tithing; a headborough; one elected to preside over the tithing.  2. (Law)  A peace officer; an under constable.  3. A parish officer elected annually to preserve good order in the church during divine service, to make complaint of any disorderly conduct, and to enforce the observance of the Sabbath. [Local, U.S.] 

TITHLY:  Tightly; nimbly. [Obs.] "I have seen him trip it tithly." Beau. & Fl. 

TITHONIC:  Of, pertaining to, or denoting, those rays of light which produce chemical effects; actinic. [R.] 

TITHONICITY:  The state or property of being tithonic; actinism. [R.] 

TITHONOGRAPHIC:  Of, relating to, or produced by, the chemical action of rays of light; photographic. 

TITHONOMETER:  An instrument or apparatus for measuring or detecting tithonicity; an actinometer. [R.] 

TITHYMAL:  Any kind of spurge, esp. Euphorbia Cyparissias. 

TITI:  Same as Teetee. 

TITILLATE:  To tickle; as, to titillate the nose with a feather. The pungent grains of titillating dust. Pope. 

TITILLATIVE:  Tending or serving to titillate, or tickle; tickling.  TITIVATE; TITTIVATE Tit"i*vate, Tit"ti*vate, v. t. & i.  [imp. & p. p. Titivated; p. pr. & vb. n. Titivating.] [Formed from an uncertain source, in imitation of words in -ate fr. L.]  To dress or smarten up; to spruce. --Tit`i*va"tion, Tit`ti*va"tion (#), n. [Both Humorous]  "Come here, an' let me titivate you." He sat down beside her, and submitted to be dusted. Quiller-Couch. 

TITLARK:  Any one of numerous small spring birds belonging to Anthus, Corydalla, and allied genera, which resemble the true larks in color and in having a very long hind claw; especially, the European meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis). 

TITLE:  The panel for the name, between the bands of the back of a book.  4. A section or division of a subject, as of a law, a book, specif. (Roman & Canon Laws), a chapter or division of a law book.  5. An appellation of dignity, distinction, or preëminence (hereditary or acquired), given to persons, as duke marquis, honorable, esquire, etc. With his former title greet Macbeth. Shak.  6. A name; an appellation; a designation.  7. (Law) (a) That which constitutes a just cause of exclusive possession; that which is the foundation of ownership of property, real or personal; a right; as, a good title to an estate, or an imperfect title. (b) The instrument which is evidence of a right. (c) (Canon Law) That by which a beneficiary holds a benefice.  8. (Anc. Church Records)  A church to which a priest was ordained, and where he was to reside. Title deeds (Law), the muniments or evidences of ownership; as, the title deeds to an estate.  Syn.  -- Epithet; name; appellation; denomination. See epithet, and Name. 

TITLE:  To call by a title; to name; to entitle. Hadrian, having quieted the island, took it for honor to be titled on his coin, "The Restorer of Britain." Milton. 

TITLED:  Having or bearing a title. 

TITLELESS:  Not having a title or name; without legitimate title. "A titleless tyrant." Chaucer.  TITLE-PAGE Ti"tle-page`, n.  The page of a book which contains it title. The world's all title-page; there's no contents. Young. 

TITLER:  A large truncated cone of refined sugar. 

TITMAL:  The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

TITMOUSE:  Any one of numerous species of small insectivorous singing birds belonging to Parus and allied genera; -- called also tit, and tomtit.  Note: The blue titmouse (Parus coeruleus), the marsh titmouse (P. palustris), the crested titmouse (P. cristatus), the great titmouse (P. major), and the long tailed titmouse (Ægithalos caudatus), are the best-known European species. See Chickadee. 

TITRATE:  To analyse, or determine the strength of, by means of standard solutions. Cf. Standardized solution, under Solution. 

TITRATED:  Standardized; determined or analyzed by titration; as, titrated solutions. 

TITRATION:  The act or process of titrating; a substance obtained by titrating. 

TITTER:  To laugh with the tongue striking against the root of the upper teeth; to laugh with restraint, or without much noise; to giggle. A group of tittering pages ran before. Longfellow. 

TITTER:  A restrained laugh. "There was a titter of . . . delight on his countenance." Coleridge. 

TITTER:  To seesaw. See Teeter. 

TITTEREL:  The whimbrel. [Prov. Eng.]  TITTER-TOTTER Tit"ter-tot`ter, v. i.  See Teeter. 

TITTIMOUSE:  Titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

TITTLE:  A particle; a minute part; a jot; an iota. It is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail. Luke xvi. 17. Every tittle of this prophecy is most exactly verified. South. 

TITTLEBAT:  The three-spined stickleback. [Prov. Eng.]  TITTLE-TATTLE Tit"tle-tat`tle, n. Etym: [A reduplication of tattle.]  1. Idle, trifling talk; empty prattle. Arbuthnot.  2. An idle, trifling talker; a gossip. [R.] Tatler.  TITTLE-TATTLE Tit"tle-tat`tle, v. i.  To talk idly; to prate. Shak.  TITTLE-TATTLING Tit"tle-tat`tling, n.  The act or habit of parting idly or gossiping. 

TITTUP:  To behave or move in a lively or restless manner, as an impatient horse; to caper; to prance; to frisk.  Kipling. 

TITTUP:  The act of tittuping; lively, gay, or restless behavior or gait; a prance or caper. [Written also titup.] 

TITTUPPY:  Given to tittuping; gay; lively; prancing; also, shaky; unsteady. 

TITTY:  A little teat; a nipple. [Familiar] 

TITUBATION:  The act of stumbling, rocking, or rolling; a reeling. Quain. 

TITULAR:  Existing in title or name only; nominal; having the title to an office or dignity without discharging its appropriate duties; as, a titular prince. If these magnificent titles yet remain Not merely titular. Milton. Titular bishop. See under Bishop. 

TITULAR:  A titulary. [R.] 

TITULARITY:  The quality or state of being titular. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

TITULARLY:  In a titular manner; nominally; by title only. 

TITULARY:  A person invested with a title, in virtue of which he holds an office or benefice, whether he performs the duties of it or not. 

TITULED:  Having a title. [Obs.] Fuller. 

TIVER:  A kind of ocher which is used in some parts of England in marking sheep. [Prov. Eng.] 

TIVER:  To mark with tiver. [Prov. Eng.] 

TIVOLI:  A game resembling bagatelle, played on a special oblong board or table (Tivoli board or table), which has a curved upper end, a set of numbered compartments at the lower end, side alleys, and the surface studded with pins and sometimes furnished with numbered depressions or cups. 

TIVY:  With great speed; -- a huntsman's word or sound. Dryden. 

TIZA:  See Ulexite. 

TLINKIT:  The Indians of a seafaring group of tribes of southern Alaska comprising the Koluschan stock. Previous to deterioration from contact with the whites they were the foremost traders of the northwest. They built substantial houses of cedar adorned with  totem poles, and were expert stone carvers and copper workers. Slavery, the potlatch, and the use of immense labrets were characteristic. Many now work in the salmon industry. 

TMESIS:  The separation of the parts of a compound word by the intervention of one or more words; as, in what place soever, for whatsoever place.  TO- To- (, see To, prep.) Etym: [AS. to- asunder; akin to G. zer-, and perhaps to L. dis-, or Gr.  An obsolete intensive prefix used in the formation of compound verbs; as in to-beat, to-break, to-hew, to-rend, to-tear. See these words in the Vocabulary. See the Note on All to, or All-to, under All, adv. 

TOAD:  Any one of numerous species of batrachians belonging to the genus Bufo and allied genera, especially those of the family Bufonidæ. Toads are generally terrestrial in their habits except during the breeding season, when they seek the water. Most of the species burrow beneath the earth in the daytime and come forth to feed on insects at night. Most toads have a rough, warty skin in which are glands that secrete an acrid fluid.  Note: The common toad (Bufo vulgaris) and the natterjack are familiar European species. The common American toad (B. lentiginosus) is similar to the European toad, but is less warty and is more active, moving chiefly by leaping. Obstetrical toad. (Zoöl.) See under Obstetrical.  -- Surinam toad. (Zoöl.) See Pita.  -- Toad lizard (Zoöl.), a horned toad.  -- Toad pipe (Bot.), a hollow-stemmed plant (Equisetum limosum) growing in muddy places. Dr. Prior.  -- Toad rush (Bot.), a low-growing kind of rush (Juncus bufonius).  -- Toad snatcher (Zoöl.), the reed bunting. [Prov. Eng.] -- Toad spittle. (Zoöl.) See Cuckoo spit, under Cuckoo.  -- Tree toad. (Zoöl.) See under Tree. 

TOADEATER:  A fawning, obsequious parasite; a mean sycophant; a flatterer; a toady. V. Knox. You had nearly imposed upon me, but you have lost your labor. You're too zealous a toadeater, and betray yourself. Dickens. 

TOADFLAX:  An herb (Linaria vulgaris) of the Figwort family, having narrow leaves and showy orange and yellow flowers; -- called also butter and eggs, flaxweed, and ramsted. 

TOADHEAD:  The golden plover. [Local, U.S.] 

TOADISH:  Like a toad. [Obs.] A. Stafford. 

TOADLET:  A small toad. [R.] Coleridge. 

TOADSTONE:  A local name for the igneous rocks of Derbyshire, England; -- said by some to be derived from the German todter stein, meaning dead stone, that is, stone which contains no ores.  2. Bufonite, formerly regarded as a precious stone, and worn as a jewel. See Bufonite. 

TOADSTOOL:  A name given to many umbrella-shaped fungi, mostly of the genus Agaricus. The species are almost numberless. They grow on decaying organic matter. 

TOADY:  To fawn upon with mean sycophancy. 

TOADYISM:  The practice of meanly fawning on another; base sycophancy; servile adulation. 

TOASTING:  a. & n. from Toast, v. Toasting fork, a long-handled fork for toasting bread, cheese, or the like, by the fire. 

TOASTMASTER:  A person who presides at a public dinner or banquet, and announces the toasts. 

TOAT:  The handle of a joiner's plane. Knight. 

TOBACCO:  An American plant (Nicotiana Tabacum) of the Nightshade family, much used for smoking and chewing, and as snuff. As a medicine, it is narcotic, emetic, and cathartic. Tobacco has a strong, peculiar smell, and an acrid taste.  Note: The name is extended to other species of the genus, and to some unrelated plants, as Indian tobacco (Nicotiana rustica, and also Lobelia inflata), mountain tobacco (Arnica montana), and Shiraz tobacco (Nicotiana Persica).  2. The leaves of the plant prepared for smoking, chewing, etc., by being dried, cured, and manufactured in various ways. Tobacco box (Zoöl.), the common American skate.  -- Tobacco camphor. (Chem.) See Nicotianine.  -- Tobacco man, a tobacconist. [R.] -- Tobacco pipe. (a) A pipe used for smoking, made of baked clay, wood, or other material. (b) (Bot.) Same as Indian pipe, under Indian.  -- Tobacco-pipe clay (Min.), a species of clay used in making tobacco pipes; -- called also cimolite.  -- Tobacco-pipe fish. (Zoöl.) See Pipemouth.  -- Tobacco stopper, a small plug for pressing down the tobacco in a pipe as it is smoked.  -- Tobacco worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a large hawk moth (Sphinx, or Phlegethontius, Carolina). It is dark green, with seven oblique white stripes bordered above with dark brown on each side of the body. It feeds upon the leaves of tobacco and tomato plants, and is often very injurious to the tobacco crop. See Illust. of Hawk moth. 

TOBACCONING:  Smoking tobacco. [Obs.] "Tobacconing is but a smoky play." [Obs.] Sylvester. 

TOBACCONIST:  To beat thoroughly or severely. [Obs.] Layamon.  TOBIAS FISH To*bi"as fish`. Etym: [See the Note under Asmodeus, in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.] (Zoöl.)  The lant, or sand eel. 

TOBIE:  A kind of inferior cigar of a long slender shape, tapered at one end. [Local, U. S.] 

TOBINE:  A stout twilled silk used for dresses. 

TOBIT:  A book of the Apocrypha. 

TOBOGGAN:  A kind of sledge made of pliable board, turned up at one or both ends, used for coasting down hills or prepared inclined planes; also, a sleigh or sledge, to be drawn by dogs, or by hand, over soft and deep snow. [Written also tobogan, and tarbogan.] 

TOBOGGAN:  To slide down hill over the snow or ice on a toboggan. Barilett.  TOBOGGANER; TOBOGGANIST To*bog"gan*er, To*bog"gan*ist, n.  One who practices tobogganing.  TO-BREAK To-break", v. t. Etym: [Pref. to- + break.]  To break completely; to break in pieces. [Obs.] With nose and mouth to-broke. Chaucer.  TO-BREST To-brest", v. t. Etym: [Pref. to- + brest.]  To burst or break in pieces. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOBY:  A small jug, pitcher, or mug, generally used for ale, shaped somewhat like a stout man, with a cocked hat forming the brim. 

TOCCATA:  An old form of piece for the organ or harpsichord, somewhat in the free and brilliant style of the prelude, fantasia, or capriccio.  TOCCATELLA; TOCCATINA Toc`ca*tel"la, Toc`ca*ti"na, n. [It.] (Music)  A short or simple toccata. 

TOCHER:  Dowry brought by a bride to her husband. [Scot.] Burns. 

TOCKAY:  A spotted lizard native of India. 

TOCO:  A toucan (Ramphastos toco) having a very large beak. See Illust. under Toucan. 

TOCOLOGY:  The science of obstetrics, or midwifery; that department of medicine which treats of parturition. [Written also tokology.] 

TOCORORO:  A cuban trogon (Priotelus temnurus) having a serrated bill and a tail concave at the end. 

TOCSIN:  An alarm bell, or the ringing of a bell for the purpose of alarm. The loud tocsin tolled their last alarm. Campbell. 

TOD:  To weigh; to yield in tods. [Obs.]  TO-DAY To-day", adv. Etym: [AS. to dæg. See To, prep., and Day.]  On this day; on the present day. Worcester's horse came but to-day. Shak.  TO-DAY To-day", n.  The present day. today. On to-day Is worth for me a thousand yesterdays. Longfellow. 

TODDLE:  To walk with short, tottering steps, as a child. 

TODDLE:  A toddling walk. Trollope. 

TODDLER:  One who toddles; especially, a young child. Mrs. Gaskell. 

TODDY:  Bustle; stir; commotion; ado. [Colloq.] 

TODY:  Any one of several species of small insectivorous West Indian birds of the genus Todus. They are allied to the kingfishers. 

TOE:  One of the terminal members, or digits, of the foot of a man or an animal. "Each one, tripping on his toe." Shak.  2. (Zoöl.)  The fore part of the hoof or foot of an animal.  3. Anything, or any part, corresponding to the toe of the foot; as, the toe of a boot; the toe of a skate.  4. (Mach.) (a) The journal, or pivot, at the lower end of a revolving shaft or spindle, which rests in a step. (b) A lateral projection at one end, or between the ends, of a piece, as a rod or bolt, by means of which it is moved. (c) A projection from the periphery of a revolving piece, acting as a cam to lift another piece. Toe biter (Zoöl.), a tadpole; a polliwig.  -- Toe drop (Med.), a morbid condition of the foot in which the toe is depressed and the heel elevated, as in talipes equinus. See Talipes. 

TOE:  To touch or reach with the toes; to come fully up to; as, to toe the mark. 

TOE:  To hold or carry the toes (in a certain way). To toe in, to stand or carry the feet in such a way that the toes of either foot incline toward the other.  -- To toe out, to have the toes of each foot, in standing or walking, incline from the other foot. toe in, to align the front wheels so that they point slightly toward each other. 

TOED:  Having the end secured by nails driven obliquely, said of a board, plank, or joist serving as a brace, and in general of any part of a frame secured to other parts by diagonal nailing.  TOE DROP Toe drop. (Med.)  A morbid condition of the foot in which the toe is depressed and the heel elevated.  TOE HOLD Toe hold. (Wrestling)  A hold in which the agressor bends back his opponent's foot.  TO-FALL To-fall", n. (Arch.)  A lean-to. See Lean-to. 

TOFF:  A fop; a beau; a swell. [Slang, Eng.]  Kipling.  TOFFEE; TOFFY Tof"fee, Tof"fy, n.  Taffy. [Eng.]  TOFORE; TOFORN To*fore", To*forn", prep. & adv. Etym: [AS. toforan. See To, prep., Fore.]  Before. [Obs.] Toforn him goeth the loud minstrelsy. Chaucer. Would thou wert as thou tofore hast been! Shak. 

TOFT:  A place where a messuage has once stood; the site of a burnt or decayed house. 

TOFTMAN:  The owner of a toft. See Toft, 3. 

TOFUS:  Tufa. See under Tufa, and Toph. 

TOG:  To put toggery, or togs, on; to dress; -- usually with out, implying care, elaborateness, or the like. [Colloq. or Slang] Harper's Weekly. 

TOGA:  The loose outer garment worn by the ancient Romans, consisting of a single broad piece of woolen cloth of a shape approaching a semicircle. It was of undyed wool, except the border of the toga prætexta. Toga prætexta. Etym: [L.], a toga with a broad purple border, worn by children of both sexes, by magistrates, and by persons engaged in sacred rites.  -- Toga virilis Etym: [L.], the manly gown; the common toga. This was assumed by Roman boys about the time of completing their fourteenth year. 

TOGATED:  Dressed in a toga or gown; wearing a gown; gowned. [R.] Sir M. Sandys. 

TOGED:  Togated. [Obs. or R.] Shak. 

TOGGERY:  Clothes; garments; dress; as, fishing toggery. [Colloq.] togs 

TOGGLE:  A wooden pin tapering toward both ends with a groove around its middle, fixed transversely in the eye of a rope to be secured to any other loop or bight or ring; a kind of button or frog capable of being readily engaged and disengaged for temporary purposes.  2. (Mach.)  Two rods or plates connected by a toggle joint. Toggle iron, a harpoon with a pivoted crosspiece in a mortise near the point to prevent it from being drawn out when a whale, shark, or other animal, is harpooned.  -- Toggle joint, an elbow or knee joint, consisting of two bars so connected that they may be brought quite or nearly into a straight line, and made to produce great endwise pressure, when any force is applied to bring them into this position. 

TOGHT:  Taut. [Obs.] Chaucer.  TOGIDER; TOGIDRES To*gid"er, To*gid"res, adv.  Together. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOGS:  Clothes; garments; toggery. [Colloq. or Slang] 

TOGUE:  The namaycush. 

TOHEW:  To hew in pieces. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOHUBOHU:  Chaos; confusion.  Was ever such a tohubohu of people as there assembles Thuckeray. 

TOIL:  A net or snare; any thread, web, or string spread for taking prey; -- usually in the plural. As a Numidian lion, when first caught, Endures the toil that holds him. Denham. Then toils for beasts, and lime for birds, were found. Dryden. 

TOIL:  To exert strength with pain and fatigue of body or mind, especially of the body, with efforts of some continuance or duration; to labor; to work. 

TOIL:  Labor with pain and fatigue; labor that oppresses the body or mind, esp. the body. My task of servile toil. Milton. After such bloody toil, we bid good night. Shak.  Note: Toil is used in the formation of compounds which are generally of obvious signification; as, toil-strung, toil-wasted, toil-worn, and the like.  Syn.  -- Labor; drudgery; work; exertion; occupation; employment; task; travail.  -- Toil, Labor, Drudgery. Labor implies strenuous exertion, but not necessary such as overtasks the faculties; toil denotes a severity of labor which is painful and exhausting; drudgery implies mean and degrading work, or, at least, work which wearies or disgusts from its minuteness or dull uniformity. You do not know the heavy grievances, The toils, the labors, weary drudgeries, Which they impose. Southern. How often have I blessed the coming day, When toil remitting lent its turn to play. Goldsmith. 

TOILER:  One who toils, or labors painfully. 

TOILETTE:  See Toilet, 3. 

TOILFUL:  Producing or involving much toil; laborious; toilsome; as, toilful care. Mickle. 

TOILINETTE:  A cloth, the weft of which is of woolen yarn, and the warp of cotton and silk, -- used for w 

TOILLESS:  Free from toil. 

TOILSOME:  Attended with toil, or fatigue and pain; laborious; wearisome; as, toilsome work. What can be toilsome in these pleasant walks Milton. -- Toil"some*ly, adv.  -- Toil"some*ness, n. 

TOISE:  An old measure of length in France, containing six French feet, or about 6.3946 French feet. 

TOISON:  A sheep's fleece.  TOISON D'OR Toi`son" d'or" (dor"). [F.]  Lit., the golden fleece; specif., the order of the Golden Fleece, or its jewel. 

TOKAY:  A grape of an oval shape and whitish color.  2. A rich Hungarian wine made from Tokay grapes. 

TOKEN:  A livid spot upon the body, indicating, or supposed to indicate, the approach of death. [Obs.] Like the fearful tokens of the plague, Are mere forerunners of their ends. Beau. & Fl.  6. (Print.)  Ten and a half quires, or, commonly, 250 sheets, of paper printed on both sides; also, in some cases, the same number of sheets printed on one side, or half the number printed on both sides.  7. (Ch. of Scot.)  A piece of metal given beforehand to each person in the congregation who is permitted to partake of the Lord's Supper.  8. (Mining)  A bit of leather having a peculiar mark designating a particular miner. Each hewer sends one of these with each corf or tub he has hewn. Token money, money which is lawfully current for more than its real value. See Token, n., 4.  -- Token sheet (Print.), the last sheet of each token. W. Savage. 

TOKEN:  To betoken. [Obs.] Shak. 

TOKENED:  Marked by tokens, or spots; as, the tokened pestilence. [Obs.] Shak. 

TOKENLESS:  Without a token. 

TOKIN:  A tocsin. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

TOL:  To take away. See Toll. 

TOLA:  A weight of British India. The standard tola is equal to 180 grains. 

TOLANE:  A hydrocarbon, C14H10, related both to the acetylene and the aromatic series, and produced artificially as a white crystalline substance; -- called also diphenyl acetylene. 

TOLBOOTH:  See Tollbooth. 

TOLD:  imp. & p. p. of Tell. 

TOLE:  To draw, or cause to follow, by displaying something pleasing or desirable; to allure by some bait. [Written also toll.] Whatever you observe him to be more frighted at then he should, tole him on to by insensible degrees, till at last he masters the difficulty. 

TOLEDO:  A sword or sword blade made at Toledo in Spain, which city was famous in the 16th and 17th centuries for the excellence of its weapons. 

TOLERABILITY:  The quality or state of being tolerable. [R.] Fuller. Wordsworth. 

TOLERANCE:  The power possessed or acquired by some persons of bearing doses of medicine which in ordinary cases would prove injurious or fatal. Tolerance of the mint. (Coinage) Same as Remedy of the mint. See under Remedy. 

TOLERANT:  Inclined to tolerate; favoring toleration; forbearing; ingulgent. 

TOLERATE:  To suffer to be, or to be done, without prohibition or hindrance; to allow or permit negatively, by not preventing; not to restrain; to put up with; as, to tolerate doubtful practices. Crying should not be tolerated in children. Locke. We tolerate them because property and liberty, to a degree, require that toleration. Burke.  Syn.  -- See Permit. 

TOLL:  To take away; to vacate; to annul. 

TOLL:  To cause to sound, as a bell, with strokes slowly and uniformly repeated; as, to toll the funeral bell. "The sexton tolled the bell." Hood.  3. To strike, or to indicate by striking, as the hour; to ring a toll for; as, to toll a departed friend. Shak. Slow tolls the village clock the drowsy hour. Beattie.  4. To call, summon, or notify, by tolling or ringing. When hollow murmurs of their evening bells Dismiss the sleepy swains, and toll them to their cells. Dryden. 

TOLL:  To sound or ring, as a bell, with strokes uniformly repeated at intervals, as at funerals, or in calling assemblies, or to announce the death of a person. The country cocks do crow, the clocks do toll. Shak. Now sink in sorrows with a tolling bell. Pope. 

TOLL:  The sound of a bell produced by strokes slowly and uniformly repeated. 

TOLL:  A liberty to buy and sell within the bounds of a manor.  3. A portion of grain taken by a miller as a compensation for grinding. Toll and team (O. Eng. Law), the privilege of having a market, and jurisdiction of villeins. Burrill.  -- Toll bar, a bar or beam used on a canal for stopping boats at the tollhouse, or on a road for stopping passengers.  -- Toll bridge, a bridge where toll is paid for passing over it.  -- Toll corn, corn taken as pay for grinding at a mill.  -- Toll dish, a dish for measuring toll in mills.  -- Toll gatherer, a man who takes, or gathers, toll.  -- Toll hop, a toll dish. [Obs.] Crabb.  -- Toll thorough (Eng. Law), toll taken by a town for beasts driven through it, or over a bridge or ferry maintained at its cost. Brande & C.  -- Toll traverse (Eng. Law), toll taken by an individual for beasts driven across his ground; toll paid by a person for passing over the private ground, bridge, ferry, or the like, of another.  -- Toll turn (Eng. Law), a toll paid at the return of beasts from market, though they were not sold. Burrill.  Syn.  -- Tax; custom; duty; impost. 

TOLL:  To collect, as a toll. Shak. 

TOLLABLE:  Subject to the payment of toll; as, tollable goods. Wright. 

TOLLAGE:  Payment of toll; also, the amount or quantity paid as toll. Drayton. 

TOLLBOOTH:  To imprison in a tollbooth. [R.] That they might tollbooth Oxford men. Bp. Corbet. 

TOLLER:  A toll gatherer. "Tollers in markets." Piers Plowman. 

TOLLER:  One who tolls a bell. 

TOLLETANE:  Of or pertaining to Toledo in Spain; made in Toledo. [Obs.] "Tables Tolletanes." Chaucer. 

TOLLGATE:  A gate where toll is taken. 

TOLLHOUSE:  A house occupied by a receiver of tolls. 

TOLLMAN:  One who receives or collects toll; a toll gatherer. Cowper. 

TOLMEN:  See Dolmen. 

TOLSESTER:  A toll or tribute of a sextary of ale, paid to the lords of some manors by their tenants, for liberty to brew and sell ale. Cowell. 

TOLSEY:  A tollbooth; also, a merchants' meeting place, or exchange. [Obs.] Halliwell.  TOLSTOYAN; TOLSTOIAN Tol*stoy"an, Tol*stoi"an, a.  Of or pertaining to Tolstoy (1828-1910). -- n.  A follower of Tolstoy, who advocates and practices manual labor, simplicity of living, nonresistance, etc., holds that possession of wealth and ownership of property are sinful, and in religion rejects all teachings not coming from Christ himself. 

TOLT:  A writ by which a cause pending in a court baron was removed into a country court. Cowell. 

TOLTEC:  One of a race which formerly occupied Mexico.  -- Tol"te*can, a. 

TOLU:  A fragrant balsam said to have been first brought from Santiago de Tolu, in New Granada. See Balsam of Tolu, under Balsam. Tolu tree (Bot.), a large tree (Myroxylon toluiferum), the wood of which is red in the center, and has an aromatic rose odor. It affords the balsam called tolu. 

TOLUATE:  A salt of any one of the toluic acids. 

TOLUENE:  A hydrocarbon, C6H5.CH3, of the aromatic series, homologous with benzene, and obtained as a light mobile colorless liquid, by distilling tolu balsam, coal tar, etc.; -- called also methyl benzene, phenyl methane, etc. 

TOLUENYL:  Tolyl. [Obs.] 

TOLUIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, one of three metameric acids, CH3.C6H4.CO2H, which are related to toluene and analogous to benzoic acids. They are white crystalline substances, and are called respectively orthotoluic acid, metatoluic acid, and paratoluic acid. 

TOLUID:  A complex double tolyl and toluidine derivative of glycocoll, obtained as a white crystalline substance. 

TOLUIDINE:  Any one of three metameric amido derivatives of toluene analogous to aniline, and called respectively orthtoluidine, metatoluidine, and paratoluidine; especially, the commonest one, or paratoluidine, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance.  Note: It is used in the aniline dye industry, and constitutes the essential nucleus or radical of those dyes.  TOLUOL; TOLUOLE Tol"u*ol, Tol"u*ole n. Etym: [Tolu + benzol.] (Chem.)  Same as Toluene. 

TOLURIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of three isomeric crystalline acids, C9H10ON.CO2H, which are toluyl derivatives of glycocoll. 

TOLUTATION:  A pacing or ambling. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TOLUYL:  Any one of the three hypothetical radicals corresponding to the three toluic acids. 

TOLYL:  The hydrocarbon radical, CH3.C6H4, regarded as characteristic of certain compounds of the aromatic series related to toluene; as, tolyl carbinol. 

TOLYLENE:  A hydrocarbon radical, C6H4.(CH2)2, regarded as characteristic of certain toluene derivatives. 

TOLYPEUTINE:  The apar. 

TOM:  The knave of trumps at gleek. [Obs.] 

TOMAHAWK:  A kind of war hatchet used by the American Indians. It was originally made of stone, but afterwards of iron. 

TOMAHAWK:  To cut, strike, or kill, with a tomahawk. 

TOMALEY:  The liver of the lobster, which becomes green when boiled; -- called also tomalline. 

TOMAN:  A money of account in Persia, whose value varies greatly at different times and places. Its average value may be reckoned at about two and a half dollars.  TOM AND JERRY Tom and Jerry.  A hot sweetened drink of rum and water spiced with cinnamon, cloves, etc., and beaten up with eggs. 

TOMATO:  The fruit of a plant of the Nightshade family (Lycopersicum esculentun); also, the plant itself. The fruit, which is called also love apple, is usually of a rounded, flattened form, but often irregular in shape. It is of a bright red or yellow color, and is eaten either cooked or uncooked. Tomato gall (Zoöl.), a large gall consisting of a mass of irregular swellings on the stems and leaves of grapevines. They are yellowish green, somewhat tinged with red, and produced by the larva of a small two-winged fly (Lasioptera vitis).  -- Tomato sphinx (Zoöl.), the adult or imago of the tomato worm. It closely resembles the tobacco hawk moth. Called also tomato hawk moth. See Illust. of Hawk moth.  -- Tomato worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a large hawk moth (Sphinx, or Macrosila, quinquemaculata) which feeds upon the leaves of the tomato and potato plants, often doing considerable damage. Called also potato worm. 

TOMB:  To place in a tomb; to bury; to inter; to entomb. I tombed my brother that I might be blessed. Chapman. 

TOMBAC:  An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, and containing about 84 per cent of copper; -- called also German, or Dutch, brass. It is very malleable and ductile, and when beaten into thin leaves is sometimes called Dutch metal. The addition of arsenic makes white tombac. [Written also tombak, and tambac.]  TOM ' BEDLAM Tom o' Bed"lam.  Formerly, a wandering mendicant discharged as incurable from Bethlehem Hospitel, Eng.; hence, a wandering mendicant, either mad or feigning to be so; a madman; a bedlamite. 

TOMBESTER:  A female dancer. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOMBLESS:  Destitute of a tomb. 

TOMBOY:  A romping girl; a hoiden. [Colloq.] J. Fletcher. 

TOMBSTONE:  A stone erected over a grave, to preserve the memory of the deceased. 

TOMCAT:  A male cat, especially when full grown or of large size. 

TOME:  As many writings as are bound in a volume, forming part of a larger work; a book; -- usually applied to a ponderous volume. Tomes of fable and of dream. Cowper. A more childish expedient than that to which he now resorted is not to be found in all the tomes of the casuists. Macaulay. 

TOMELET:  All small tome, or volume. [R.] 

TOMENTOSE:  Covered with matted woolly hairs; as, a tomentose leaf; a tomentose leaf; a tomentose membrane. 

TOMENTOUS:  Tomentose. 

TOMENTUM:  The closely matted hair or downy nap covering the leaves or stems of some plants. 

TOMFOOL:  A great fool; a trifler. 

TOMFOOLERY:  Folly; trifling. 

TOMIUM:  The cutting edge of the bill of a bird. 

TOMJOHN:  A kind of open sedan used in Ceylon, carried by a single pole on men's shoulders. 

TOMMY:  Any white regular soldier of the British army; also, such soldiers collectively; -- said to be fictitious name inserted in the models given to soldiers to guide them in filling out account blanks, etc. 

TOMNODDY:  A sea bird, the puffin. [Prov.Eng.]  2. A fool; a dunce; a noddy. 

TOMOPTERIS:  A genus of transparent marine annelids which swim actively at the surface of the sea. They have deeply divided or forked finlike organs (parapodia). This genus is the type of the order, or suborder, Gymnocopa. 

TOMORN:  To-morrow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOMORROW:  On the day after the present day; on the next day; on the morrow. Summon him to-morrow to the Tower. Shak. 

TOMORROW:  The day after the present; the morrow."To-morrow is our wedding day." Cowper. One today is worth two to-morrows. Franklin. 

TOMPION:  A plug in a flute or an organ pipe, to modulate the tone. Knight.  3. The iron bottom to which grapeshot are fixed. 

TOMPON:  An inking pad used in lithographic printing. 

TOMRIG:  A rude, wild, wanton girl; a hoiden; a tomboy. Dennis. 

TOMTATE:  A Florida and West Indian grunt (Bathystoma, or Hæmulon, rimator); also, any of various allied species. 

TOMTIT:  See Tam-tam. 

TON:  pl. of Toe. Chaucer. 

TON:  The common tunny, or house mackerel. 

TON:  The prevailing fashion or mode; vogue; as, things of ton. Byron. If our people of ton are selfish, at any rate they show they are selfish. Thackeray. Bon ton. See in the Vocabulary. 

TON:  A measure of weight or quantity. Specifically: -- (a) The weight of twenty hundredweight.  Note: In England, the ton is 2,240 pounds. In the United States the ton is commonly estimated at 2,000 pounds, this being sometimes called the short ton, while that of 2,240 pounds is called the long ton. (b) (Naut. & Com.) Forty cubic feet of space, being the unit of measurement of the burden, or carrying capacity, of a vessel; as a vessel of 300 tons burden. See the Note under Tonnage. (c) (Naut. & Com.) A certain weight or quantity of merchandise, with reference to transportation as freight; as, six hundred weight of ship bread in casks, seven hundred weight in bags, eight hundred weight in bulk; ten bushels of potatoes; eight sacks, or ten barrels, of flour; forty cubic feet of rough, or fifty cubic feet of hewn, timber, etc.  Note: Ton and tun have the same etymology, and were formerly used interchangeably; but now ton generally designates the weight, and tun the cask. See Tun. 

TONALITY:  The principle of key in music; the character which a composition has by virtue of the key in which it is written, or through the family relationship of all its tones and chords to the keynote, or tonic, of the whole. The predominance of the tonic as the link which connects all the tones of a piece, we may, with Fétis, term the principle of tonality. Helmholtz.  TO-NAME To"-name`, n. Etym: [prep. to + name.]  A name added, for the sake of distinction, to one's surname, or used instead of it. [Scot.] Jamieson.  TONCA BEAN Ton"ca bean`. (Bot.)  See Tonka bean. 

TONE:  Accent, or inflection or modulation of the voice, as adapted to express emotion or passion. Eager his tone, and ardent were his eyes. Dryden.  3. A whining style of speaking; a kind of mournful or artificial strain of voice; an affected speaking with a measured rhythm ahd a regular rise and fall of the voice; as, children often read with a tone.  4. (Mus.) (a) A sound considered as to pitch; as, the seven tones of the octave; she has good high tones. (b) The larger kind of interval between contiguous sounds in the diatonic scale, the smaller being called a semitone as, a whole tone too flat; raise it a tone. (c) The peculiar quality of sound in any voice or instrument; as, a rich tone, a reedy tone. (d) A mode or tune or plain chant; as, the Gregorian tones.  Note: The use of the word tone, both for a sound and for the interval between two sounds or tones, is confusing, but is common -- almost universal.  Note: Nearly every musical sound is composite, consisting of several simultaneous tones having different rates of vibration according to fixed laws, which depend upon the nature of the vibrating body and the mode of excitation. The components (of a composite sound) are called partial tones; that one having the lowest rate of vibration is the fundamental tone, and the other partial tones are called harmonics, or overtones. The vibration ratios of the partial tones composing any sound are expressed by all, or by a part, of the numbers in the series 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc.; and the quality of any sound (the tone color) is due in part to the presence or absence of overtones as represented in this series, and in part to the greater or less intensity of those present as compared with the fundamental tone and with one another. Resultant tones, combination tones, summation tones, difference tones, Tartini's tones (terms only in part synonymous) are produced by the simultaneous sounding of two or more primary (simple or composite) tones.  5. (Med.)  That state of a body, or of any of its organs or parts, in which the animal functions are healthy and performed with due vigor.  Note: In this sense, the word is metaphorically applied to character or faculties, intellectual and moral; as, his mind has lost its tone.  6. (Physiol.)  Tonicity; as, arterial tone.  7. State of mind; temper; mood. The strange situation I am in and the melancholy state of public affairs, . . . drag the mind down . . . from a philosophical tone or temper, to the drudgery of private and public business. Bolingbroke. Their tone was dissatisfied, almost menacing. W. C. Bryant.  8. Tenor; character; spirit; drift; as, the tone of his remarks was commendatory.  9. General or prevailing character or style, as of morals, manners, or sentiment, in reference to a scale of high and low; as, a low tone of morals; a tone of elevated sentiment; a courtly tone of manners.  10. The general effect of a picture produced by the combination of light and shade, together with color in the case of a painting; -- commonly used in a favorable sense; as, this picture has tone. Tone color. (Mus.) see the Note under def. 4, above.  -- Tone syllable, an accented syllable. M. Stuart. 

TONE:  To bring, as a print, to a certain required shade of color, as by chemical treatment. To tone down. (a) To cause to give lower tone or sound; to give a lower tone to. (b) (Paint.) To modify, as color, by making it less brilliant or less crude; to modify, as a composition of color, by making it more harmonius. Its thousand hues toned down harmoniusly. C. Kingsley. (c) Fig.: To moderate or relax; to diminish or weaken the striking characteristics of; to soften. The best method for the purpose in hand was to employ some one of a character and position suited to get possession of their confidence, and then use it to tone down their religious strictures. Palfrey. -- To tone up, to cause to give a higher tone or sound; to give a higher tone to; to make more intense; to heighten; to strengthen. 

TONED:  Having (such) a tone; -- chiefly used in composition; as, high- toned; sweet-toned. Toned paper, paper having a slight tint, in distinction from paper which is quite white. 

TONELESS:  Having no tone; unmusical.  TONG; TONGE Tong, Tonge, n.  Tongue. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TONGA:  A drug useful in neuralgia, derived from a Fijian plant supposed to be of the aroid genus Epipremnum. 

TONGKANG:  A kind of boat or junk used in the seas of the Malay Archipelago. 

TONGO:  The mangrove; -- so called in the Pacific Islands. 

TONGS:  An instrument, usually of metal, consisting of two parts, or long shafts, jointed together at or near one end, or united by an elastic bow, used for handling things, especially hot coals or metals; -- often called a pair of tongs. 

TONGUE:  an organ situated in the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates and connected with the hyoid arch.  Note: The tongue is usually muscular, mobile, and free at one extremity, and in man other mammals is the principal organ of taste, aids in the prehension of food, in swallowing, and in modifying the voice as in speech. To make his English sweet upon his tongue. Chaucer.  2. The power of articulate utterance; speech. Parrots imitating human tongue. Dryden.  3. Discourse; fluency of speech or expression. Much tongue and much judgment seldom go together. L. Estrange.  4. Honorable discourse; eulogy. [Obs.] She was born noble; let that title find her a private grave, but neither tongue nor honor. Beau. & Fl.  5. A language; the whole sum of words used by a particular nation; as, the English tongue. Chaucer. Whose tongue thou shalt not understand. Deut. xxviii. 49. To speak all tongues. Milton.  6. Speech; words or declarations only; -- opposed to thoughts or actions. My little children, let us love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. 1 John iii. 18.  7. A people having a distinct language. A will gather all nations and tongues. Isa. lxvi. 18.  8. (Zoöl.) (a) The lingual ribbon, or odontophore, of a mollusk. (b) The proboscis of a moth or a butterfly. (c) The lingua of an insect.  9. (Zoöl.)  Any small sole.  10. That which is considered as resembing an animal's tongue, in position or form. Specifically: -- (a) A projection, or slender appendage or fixture; as, the tongue of a buckle, or of a balance.  (b) A projection on the side, as of a board, which fits into a groove. (c) A point, or long, narrow strip of land, projecting from the mainland into a sea or a lake. (d) The pole of a vehicle; especially, the pole of an ox cart, to the end of which the oxen are yoked. (e) The clapper of a bell. (f) (Naut.) A sort piece of rope spliced into the upper part of standing backstays, etc.; also. the upper main piece of a mast composed of several pieces. (g) (Mus.) Same as Reed, n., 5. To hold the tongue, to be silent.  -- Tongue bone (Anat.), the hyoid bone.  -- Tongue grafting. See under Grafting.  Syn.  -- Language; speech; expression. See Language. 

TONGUE:  To modulate or modify with the tongue, as notes, in playing the flute and some other wind instruments.  4. To join means of a tongue and grove; as, to tongue boards together. 

TONGUE:  To use the tongue in forming the notes, as in playing the flute and some other wind instruments. 

TONGUEBIRD:  The wryneck. [Prov. Eng.] 

TONGUED:  Having a tongue. Tongued like the night crow. Donne. 

TONGUEFISH:  A flounder (Symphurus plagiusa) native of the southern coast of the United States. 

TONGUELET:  A little tongue.  TONGUE-PAD Tongue"-pad`, n.  A great talker. [Obs.]  TONGUE-SHAPED Tongue"-shaped`, a.  Shaped like a tongue; specifically (Bot.), linear or oblong, and fleshy, blunt at the end, and convex beneath; as, a tongue-shaped leaf.  TONGUE-SHELL Tongue"-shell`, n.  Any species of Lingula. 

TONGUESTER:  One who uses his tongue; a talker; a story-teller; a gossip. [Poetic.] Step by step we rose to greatness; through the tonguesters we may fall. Tennyson.  TONGUE-TIE Tongue"-tie`, n. (Med.)  Impeded motion of the tongue because of the shortness of the frænum, or of the adhesion of its margins to the gums. Dunglison.  TONGUE-TIE Tongue"-tie`, v. t.  To deprive of speech or the power of speech, or of distinct articulation.  TONGUE-TIED Tongue"-tied`, a.  1. Destitute of the power of distinct articulation; having an impediment in the speech, esp. when caused by a short frænum.  2. Unable to speak freely, from whatever cause. Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity. Shak. 

TONGUEWORM:  Any species of Linguatulina. 

TONGUY:  Ready or voluble in speaking; as, a tonguy speaker. [Written also tonguey.] [Colloq.] 

TONIC:  Increasing strength, or the tone of the animal system; obviating the effects of debility, and restoring heatly functions. Tononic spasm. (Med.) See the Note under Spasm. 

TONIC:  A tonic element or letter; a vowel or a diphthong.  2. (Mus.)  The key tone, or first tone of any scale.  3. (Med.)  A medicine that increases the srength, and gives vigor of action to the system. Tonic sol-fa (Mus.), the name of the most popular among letter systems of notation (at least in England), based on key relationship, and hence called "tonic." Instead of the five lines, clefs, signature, etc., of the usual notation, it employs letters and the syllables do, re, mi, etc., variously modified, with other simple signs of duration, of upper or lower octave, etc. See Sol-fa. 

TONICAL:  Tonic. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

TONICITY:  The state of healty tension or partial contraction of muscle fibers while at rest; tone; tonus. 

TONIGHT:  The present or the coming night; the night after the present day. 

TONITE:  An explosive compound; a preparation of gun cotton.  TONKA BEAN Ton"ka bean`. Etym: [Cf. F. onca, tonka.] (Bot.)  The seed of a leguminous tree (Dipteryx odorata), native of Guiana. It has a peculiarly agreeable smell, and is employed in the scenting of snuff. Called also tiononquin bean. [Written also tonca bean, tonga bean.]  TON MILE Ton mile. (Railroads)  A unit of measurement of the freight transportation performed by a railroad during a given period, usually a year, the total of which consists of the sum of the products obtained by multiplying the aggregate weight of each shipment in tons during the given period by the number of miles for which it is carried.  TON MILEAGE Ton mileage. (Railroads)  Ton miles collectively; esp., the total ton miles performed by a railroad in a given period. 

TONNE:  A tun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TONNIHOOD:  The female of the bullfinch; -- called also tonyhoop. [Prov. Eng.] 

TONNISH:  In the ton; fashionable; modish.  -- Ton"nish*ness, n. 

TONOMETER:  An instrument for determining the rate of vibrations in tones.  2. (Physiol.) (a) An apparatus for studying and registering the action of various fluids and drugs on the excised heart of lower animals. (b) An instrument for measuring tension, esp. that of the eyeball. 

TONOMETRY:  The act of measuring with a tonometer; specifically (Med.), measurement of tension, esp. the tension of the eyeball. 

TONOPHANT:  A modification of the kaleidophon, for showing composition of acoustic vibrations. It consists of two thin slips of steel welded together, their length being adjystable by a screw socket. 

TONOUS:  Abounding in tone or sound.  TONQUIN BEAN Ton"quin bean`  See Tonka bean. 

TONSIL:  One of the two glandular organs situated in the throat at the sides of the fauces. The tonsils are sometimes called the almonds, from their shape. 

TONSILAR:  Of or pertaining to the tonsils; tonsilitic. [Written also tonsillar.] 

TONSILE:  Capable of being clipped. 

TONSILITIC:  Tonsilar. [Written also tonsillitic.] 

TONSILITIS:  Inflammation of the tonsil; quinsy. [Written also, and more usually, tonsillitis.] 

TONSILOTOME:  An instrument for removing the tonsils. 

TONSILOTOMY:  The operation of removing the tonsil, or a portion thereof. 

TONSOR:  A barber. Sir W. Scott. 

TONSORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a barber, or shaving. 

TONSURED:  Having the tonsure; shaven; shorn; clipped; hence, bald. A tonsured head in middle age forlorn. Tennyson. 

TONTINE:  An annuity, with the benefit of survivorship, or a loan raised on life annuities with the benefit of survivorship. Thus, an annuity is shared among a number, on the principle that the share of each, at his death, is enjoyed by the survivors, until at last the whole goes to the last survivor, or to the last two or three, according to the terms on which the money is advanced. Used also adjectively; as, tontine insurance. Too many of the financiers by professions are apt to see nothing in revenue but banks, and circulations, and annuities on lives, and tontines, and perpetual rents, and all the small wares of the shop. Burke.  TONTINE INSURANCE Ton*tine" in*su"rance. (Life Insurance)  Insurance in which the benefits of the insurance are distributed upon the tontine principle. Under the old, or full tontine, plan, all benefits were forfeited on lapsed policies, on the policies of those who died within the tontine period only the face of the policy was paid without any share of the surplus, and the survivor at the end of the tontine period received the entire surplus. This plan of tontine insurance has been replaced in the United States by the semitontine plan, in which the surplus is divided among the holders of policies in force at the termination of the tontine period, but the reverse for the paid-up value is paid on lapsed policies, and on the policies of those that have died the face is paid. Other modified forms are called free tontine, deferred dividend, etc., according to the nature of the tontine arrangement. 

TONUS:  Tonicity, or tone; as, muscular tonus. 

TONY:  A simpleton. L'Estrange. A pattern and companion fit For all the keeping tonies of the pit. Dryden. 

TOOK:  imp. of Take. 

TOOLING:  Work perfomed with a tool. The fine tooling and delicate tracery of the cabinet artist is lost upon a building of colossal proportions. De Quincey.  TOOL-POST; TOOL-STOCK Tool"-post`, Tool"-stock`, n. (Mach.)  The part of a toolrest in which a cutting tool is clamped.  TOOL-REST Tool"-rest`, n. (Mach.)  the part that supports a tool-post or a tool.  TOOL STEEL Tool steel.  Hard steel, usually crucible steel, capable of being tempered so as to be suitable for tools. 

TOOM:  Empty. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Wyclif. 

TOOM:  To empty. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] 

TOON:  pl. of Toe. Chaucer. 

TOON:  The reddish brown wood of an East Indian tree (Cedrela Toona) closely resembling the Spanish cedar; also. the tree itself. 

TOONWOOD:  Same as Toon. 

TOOT:  To see; to spy. [Obs.] P. Plowman. 

TOOT:  To blow or sound a horn; to make similar noise by contact of the tongue with the root of the upper teeth at the beginning and end of the sound; also, to give forth such a sound, as a horn when blown. "A tooting horn." Howell. Tooting horns and rattling teams of mail coaches. Thackeray. 

TOOT:  To cause to sound, as a horn, the note being modified at the beginning and end as if by pronouncing the letter t; to blow; to sound. 

TOOTER:  One who toots; one who plays upon a pipe or horn. B. Jonson. 

TOOTH:  One of the hard, bony appendages which are borne on the jaws, or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates, and which usually aid in the prehension and mastication of food.  Note: The hard parts of teeth are principally made up of dentine, or ivory, and a very hard substance called enamel. These are variously combined in different animals. Each tooth consist of three parts, a crown, or body, projecting above the gum, one or more fangs imbedded in the jaw, and the neck, or intermediate part. In some animals one or more of the teeth are modified into tusks which project from the mouth, as in both sexes of the elephant and of the walrus, and in the male narwhal. In adult man there are thirty-two teeth, composed largely of dentine, but the crowns are covered with enamel, and the fangs with a layer of bone called cementum. Of the eight teeth on each half of each jaw, the two in front are incisors, then come one canine, cuspid, or dog tooth, two bicuspids, or false molars, and three molars, or grinding teeth. The milk, or temporary, teeth are only twenty in number, there being two incisors, one canine, and two molars on each half of each jaw. The last molars, or wisdom teeth, usually appear long after the others, and occasionally do not appear above the jaw at all. How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child ! Shak.  2. Fig.: Taste; palate. These are not dishes for thy dainty tooth. Dryden.  3. Any projection corresponding to the tooth of an animal, in shape, position, or office; as, the teeth, or cogs, of a cogwheel; a tooth, prong, or tine, of a fork; a tooth, or the teeth, of a rake, a saw, a file, a card.  4. (a) A projecting member resembling a tenon, but fitting into a mortise that is only sunk, not pierced through. (b) One of several steps, or offsets, in a tusk. See Tusk.  5. (Nat. Hist.)  An angular or prominence on any edge; as, a tooth on the scale of a fish, or on a leaf of a plant; specifically (Bot.),  one of the appendages at the mouth of the capsule of a moss. See Peristome.  6. (Zoöl.)  Any hard calcareous or chitinous organ found in the mouth of various invertebrates and used in feeding or procuring food; as, the teeth of a mollusk or a starfish. In spite of the teeth, in defiance of opposition; in opposition to every effort.  -- In the teeth, directly; in direct opposition; in front. "Nor strive with all the tempest in my teeth." Pope.  -- To cast in the teeth, to report reproachfully; to taunt or insult one with.  -- Tooth and nail, as if by biting and scratching; with one's utmost power; by all possible means. L'Estrange. "I shall fight tooth and nail for international copyright." Charles Reade.  -- Tooth coralline (Zoöl.), any sertularian hydroid.  -- Tooth edge, the sensation excited in the teeth by grating sounds, and by the touch of certain substances, as keen acids.  -- Tooth key, an instrument used to extract teeth by a motion resembling that of turning a key.  -- Tooth net, a large fishing net anchored. [Scot.] Jamieson.  -- Tooth ornament. (Arch.) Same as Dogtooth, n., 2.Tooth paste, a paste for cleaning the teeth; a dentifrice.  -- Tooth powder, a powder for cleaning the teeth; a dentifrice.  -- Tooth rash. (Med.) See Red-gum, 1.  -- To show the teeth, to threaten. "When the Law shows her teeth, but dares not bite." Young.  -- To the teeth, in open opposition; directly to one's face. "That I shall live, and tell him to his teeth ." Shak. 

TOOTHACHE:  Pain in a tooth or in the teeth; odontalgia. Toothache grass (Bot.), a kind of grass (Ctenium Americanum) having a very pungent taste.  -- Toothache tree. (Bot.) (a) The prickly ash. (b) A shrub of the genus Aralia (A. spinosa). 

TOOTHBACK:  Any notodontian. 

TOOTHBILL:  A peculiar fruit-eating ground pigeon (Didunculus strigiostris) native of the Samoan Islands, and noted for its resemblance, in several characteristics, to the extinct dodo. Its beak is stout and strongly hooked, and the mandible has two or three strong teeth toward the end. or ts color is chocolate red. Called also toothbilled pigeon, and manu-mea. 

TOOTHBRUSH:  A brush for cleaning the teeth. 

TOOTHDRAWER:  One whose business it is to extract teeth with instruments; a dentist. Shak. 

TOOTHED:  Having marginal projecting points; dentate. Toothed whale (Zoöl.), any whale of the order Denticete. See Denticete.  -- Toothed wheel, a wheel with teeth or projections cut or set on its edge or circumference, for transmitting motion by their action on the engaging teeth of another wheel. 

TOOTHFUL:  Toothsome. [Obs.] 

TOOTHING:  Bricks alternately projecting at the end of a wall, in order that they may be bonded into a continuation of it when the remainder is carried up. Toothing plane, a plane of which the iron is formed into a series of small teeth, for the purpose of roughening surfaces, as of veneers. 

TOOTHLESS:  Having no teeth. Cowper. 

TOOTHLET:  A little tooth, or like projection. 

TOOTHLETED:  Having a toothlet or toothlets; as, a toothleted leaf. [Written also toothletted.] 

TOOTHPICK:  A pointed instument for clearing the teeth of substances lodged between them. 

TOOTHPICKER:  A toothpick. [Obs.] Shak. 

TOOTHSHELL:  Any species of Dentalium and allied genera having a tooth- shaped shell. See Dentalium. 

TOOTHSOME:  Grateful to the taste; palable.  -- Tooth"some*ly, adv.  -- Tooth"some*ness, n. Though less toothsome to me, they were more wholesome for me. Fuller. 

TOOTHWORT:  A plant whose roots are fancied to resemble teeth, as certain plants of the genus Lathræa, and various species of Dentaria. See Coralwort. 

TOOTHY:  Toothed; with teeth. [R] Croxall. 

TOOTLE:  To toot gently, repeatedly, or continuously, on a wind instrument, as a flute; also, to make a similar noise by any means. "The tootling robin."  John Clare. 

TOOZOO:  The ringdove. [Prov. Eng.] 

TOP:  A plug, or conical block of wood, with longitudital grooves on its surface, in which the strands of the rope slide in the process of twisting. 

TOP:  A platform surrounding the head of the lower mast and projecting on all sudes. It serves to spead the topmast rigging, thus strengheningthe mast, and also furnishes a convenient standing place for the men aloft. Totten.  8. (Wool Manuf.)  A bundle or ball of slivers of comkbed wool, from which the noils, or dust, have been taken out.  9. Eve; verge; point. [R.] "He was upon the top of his marriage with Magdaleine." Knolles.  10. The part of a cut gem between the girdle, or circumference, and the table, or flat upper surface. Knight.  11. pl.  Top-boots. [Slang] Dickens.  Note: Top is often used adjectively or as the first part of compound words, usually self-explaining; as, top stone, or topstone; top- boots, or top boots; top soil, or top-soil. Top and but (Shipbuilding), a phrase used to denote a method of working long tapering planks by bringing the but of one plank to the top of the other to make up a constant breadth in two layers.  -- Top minnow (Zoöl.), a small viviparous fresh-water fish (Gambusia patruelis) abundant in the Southern United States. Also applied to other similar species. 

TOP:  To raise one end of, as a yard, so that that end becomes higher than the other. To top off, to complete by putting on, or finishing, the top or uppermost part of; as, to top off a stack of hay; hence, to complete; to finish; to adorn. 

TOPARCH:  The ruler or principal man in a place or country; the governor of a toparchy. The prince and toparch of that country. Fuller. 

TOPARCHY:  A small state, consisting of a few cities or towns; a petty country governed by a toparch; as, Judea was formerly divided into ten toparchies. Fuller.  TOP-ARMOR Top"-ar`mor, n. (Naut.)  A top railing supported by stanchions and equipped with netting. 

TOPAU:  The rhinocerous bird (a). 

TOPAZ:  A mineral occurring in rhombic prisms, generally yellowish and pellucid, also colorless, and of greenesh, bluish, or brownish shades. It sometimes occurs massive and opaque. It is a fluosilicate of alumina, and is used as a gem.  2. (Zoöl.)  Either one of two species of large, brilliantly colored humming birds of the Topaza, of South America and the West Indies.  Note: The two tail feathers next to the central ones are much longer that the rest, curved, and crossed. The Throat is metallic yellowish- green, with a tint like topaz in the center, the belly is bright crimson, the back bright red. Called also topaz hummer. False topaz. (Min.) See the Note under Quartz. 

TOPAZOLITE:  A topaz-yellow variety of garnet.  TOP-BLOCK Top"-block`, n. (Naut.)  A large ironbound block strapped with a hook, and, when used, hung to an eyebolt in the cap, -- used in swaying and lowering the topmast. Totten.  TOP-BOOTS Top"-boots, n. pl.  High boots, having generally a band of some kind of light- colored leather around the upper part of the leg; riding boots.  TOP-CHAIN Top"-chain`, n. (Naut.)  A chain for slinging the lower yards, in time of action, to prevent their falling, if the ropes by which they are hung are shot away.  TOP-CLOTH Top"-cloth, n. (Naut.)  A piece of canvas used to cover the hammocks which are lashed to the top in action to protect the topmen. 

TOPCOAT:  An outer coat; an overcoat.  TOP-DRAIN Top"-drain`, v. t.  To drain the surface of, as land; as, to top-drain a field or farm.  TOP-DRAINING Top"-drain`ing, n.  The act or practice of drining the surface of land.  TOP-DRESS Top"-dress`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Top-dressed; p. pr. & vb. n. Top- dressing.]  To apply a surface dressing of manureto,as land.  TOP-DRESSING Top"-dress`ing, n.  The act of applying a dressing of manure to the surface of land; also, manure so applied. 

TOPE:  A moundlike Buddhist sepulcher, or memorial monument. often erected over a Buddhish relic. 

TOPE:  A grove or clumb of trees; as, a toddy tope. [India] Whitworth. 

TOPE:  A small shark or dogfish (Galeorhinus, or Galeus, galeus), native of Europe, but found also on the coasts of California and Tasmania; -- called also toper, oil shark, miller's dog, and penny dog.  2. (Zoöl.)  The wren. [Prov. Eng.] 

TOPE:  To drink hard or frequently; to drink strong or spiritous liquors to excess. If you tope in form, and treat. Dryden. 

TOPEK:  An ESkimo house made of material other than snow, esp. one having walls of turf, driftwood, rock, or skin, and a roof of skins of the walrus or seal. In Alaska it is often partially underground and covered with timber and turf. Topeks are also used by Indians of the lower Yukon region. 

TOPER:  One who topes, or drinks frequently or to excess; a drunkard; a sot. 

TOPET:  The European crested titmouse. [Prov. Eng.]  TOP FERMENTATION Top fermentation.  An alcoholic fermentation during which the yeast cells are carried to the top of the fermening liquid. It proceeds with some violence and requires a temperature of 14-30º C. (58-86º F.). It is used in the production of ale, porter, etc., and of wines high in alcohol, and in distilling. 

TOPFUL:  Full to the top, ore brim; brimfull. "Topful of direst cruelty." Shak. [He] was so topful of himself, that he let it spill on all the company. I. Watts. 

TOPGALLANT:  Situated above the topmast and below the royal mast; designatb, or pertaining to, the third spars in order from the deck; as, the topgallant mast, yards, braces, and the like. See Illustration of Ship.  2. Fig.: Highest; elevated; splendid. "The consciences of topgallant sparks." L'Estrange. Topgallant breeze, a breeze in which the topgallant sails may properly be carried. 

TOPGALLANT:  A topgallant mast or sail.  2. Fig.: Anything elevated or splendid. Bacon. 

TOPH:  kind of sandstone. 

TOPHACEOUS:  Gritty; sandy; rough; stony.  TOP-HAMPER Top"-ham`per, n. (Naut.)  The upper rigging, spars, etc., of a ship. [Written also top hamper.] All the ships of the fleet . . . were so encumbered with tophamper, so overweighted in proportion to their draught of water, that they could bear but little canvas, even with smooth seas and light and favorable winds. Motley.  TOP-HEAVY Top"-heav`y, a.  Having the top or upper part too heavy for the lower part. Sir H. Wotton. 

TOPHET:  A place lying east or southeast of Jerusalem, in the valley of Hinnom. [Written also Topheth.] And he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the children of Hinnom. 2 Kings xxiii. 10.  Note: It seems to have been at first part of the royal garden, but it was afterwards defiled and polluted by the sacrifices of Baal and the fires of Moloch, and resounded with the cries of burning infants. At a later period, its altars and high places were thrown down, and all the filth of the city poured into it, until it became the abhorrence of Jerusalem, and, in symbol, the place where are wailing and gnashing of teeth. The pleasant valley of Hinnom, Tophet thence And black Gehenna called, the type of hell. Milton. 

TOPHIN:  Same as Toph. 

TOPHUS:  One of the mineral concretions about the joints, and in other situations, occurring chiefly in gouty persons. They consist usually of urate of sodium; when occurring in the internal organs they are also composed of phosphate of calcium.  2. (Min.)  Calcareous tufa. 

TOPI:  An antelope (Damaliscus corrigum jimela) having a glossy purplish brown coat. It is related to the blesbok and is native of British East Africa. Also, any of various related varieties of other districts south of the Sahara. 

TOPIARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the ornamental cutting and trimming of trees, hedges, etc.; practicing ornamental gardening. [R.] "The topiarian artist." Sir W. Scott. All the pedantries of the topiarian art. C. Kingsley. 

TOPIARY:  Of or pertaining to ornamental gardening; produced by cutting, trimming, etc.; topiarian. Topiary work, arbors, shrubbery, hedges, or the like, cut and trimmed into fanciful forms, as of animals, building, etc. 

TOPIC:  A treatise on forms of argument; a system or scheme of forms or commonplaces of argument or oratory; as, the Topics of Aristotle. These topics, or loci, were no other than general ideas applicable to a great many different subjects, which the orator was directed to consult. Blair. In this question by [reason] I do not mean a distinct topic, but a transcendent that runs through all topics. Jer. Taylor.  2. An argument or reason. [Obs.] Contumacious persons, who are not to be fixed by any principles, whom no topics can work upon. Bp. Wilkins.  3. The subject of any distinct portion of a discourse, or argument, or literary composition; also, the general or main subject of the whole; a matter treated of; a subject, as of conversation or of thought; a matter; a point; a head.  4. (Med.)  An external local application or remedy, as a plaster, a blister, etc. [Obsoles.] Wiseman. 

TOPIC:  Topical. Drayton. Holland. 

TOPICAL:  Pertaining to, or consisting of, a topic or topics; according to topics.  3. Resembling a topic, or general maxim; hence, not demonstrative, but merely probable, as an argument. Evidences of fact can be no more than topical and probable. Sir M. Hale. 

TOPICALLY:  In a topical manner; with application to, or limitation of, a particular place or topic. 

TOPKNOT:  A small Europen flounder (Rhoumbus punctatus). The name is also applied to allied species. 

TOPLESS:  Having no top, or no visble fop; hence, fig.: very lofty; supreme; unequaled. " The topless Apennines." "Topless fortunes." Beau. & Fl.  TOP-LIGHT Top"-light`, n. (Naut.)  A lantern or light on the top of a vessel. 

TOPMAN:  A man stationed in the top. 

TOPMAST:  The second mast, or that which is next above the lower mast, and below the topgallant mast. 

TOPMOST:  Highest; uppermost; as, the topmost cliff; the topmost branch of a tree. The nightngale may claim the topmost bough. Cowper. 

TOPOGRAPHER:  One who is skilled in the science of topography; one who describes a particular place, town, city, or tract of land. Dante is the one authorized topographer of the mediæval hell. Milman.  TOPOGRAPHIC; TOPOGRAPHICAL Top`o*graph"ic, a. Top`o*graph"ic*al,Etym: [Cf. F. topographique.]  Of or pertaining to topography; descriptive of a place.  -- Top`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. Topographical map. See under Cadastral.  -- Topographical surveying. See under Surveying. 

TOPOGRAPHIST:  A topographer. 

TOPOGRAPHY:  The description of a particular place, town, manor, parish, or tract of land; especially, the exact and scientific delineation and description in minute detail of any place or region.  Note: Topography, as the description of particular places, is distinguished from chorography, the description of a region or a district, and for geography, the description of the earth or of countries. Brande & C. 

TOPOLOGY:  The art of, or method for, assisting the memory by associating the thing or subject to be remembered with some place. [R.] 

TOPONOMY:  The designation of position and direction. B. G. Wilder. 

TOPONYM:  A name of a place; more broadly, a name, as in the binomial name of a plant, based on, or derived from, a place name, or based on the location of the thing named. 

TOPONYMY:  A system of toponyms; the use of toponyms. -- To*pon"y*mal (#), Top`o*nym"ic (#), Top`o*nym"ic*al (#), a. 

TOPOPHONE:  A double ear trumpet for estimating the direction from which sounds proceed, esp. for the use of navigators.  TOP OUT Top out. (Building)  To top off; to finish by putting on a cap of top (uppermost) course (called a top`ping-out" course). 

TOPPIECE:  A small wig for the top of the head; a toupee. 

TOPPING:  The act of raising one extremity of a spar higher than the other.  3. pl.  That which comes from hemp in the process of hatcheling. Topping lift (Naut.), a large, strong tackle employed to raise or top the end of a gaff, or of a boom. 

TOPPINGLY:  In a topping or proud manner. 

TOPPINGLY:  Same as Topping, a., 3. [Obs.] "Topping quests." Tusser. 

TOPPLE:  To fall forward; to pitch or tumble down. Though castles topple on their warders' heads. Shak. 

TOPPLE:  To throw down; to overturn. He topple crags from the precipice. Longfellow.  TOP-PROUD Top"-proud`, a.  Proud to the highest degree. [R.] "This top-proud fellow." Shak.  TOP RAKE Top rake. (Mech.)  The angle that the front edge of the point of a tool is set back from the normal to the surface being cut.  TOP-ROPE Top"-rope`, n. (Naut.)  A rope used for hoisting and lowering a topmast, and for other purposes. 

TOPSAIL:  In a square-rigged vessel, the sail next above the lowermost sail on a mast. This sail is the one most frequently reefed or furled in working the ship. In a fore-and-aft rigged vessel, the sail set upon and above the gaff. See Cutter, Schooner, Sail, and Ship. Topsail schooner. (Naut.) See Schooner, and Illustration in Appendix.  TOPS-AND-BOTTOMS Tops"-and-bot`toms, n. pl.  Small rolls of dough, baked, cut in halves, and then browned in an oven, -- used as food for infants. 'T is said that her top-and-bottoms were gilt. Hood.  TOP-SHAPED Top"-shaped`, a.  Having the shape of a top; (Bot.) cone-shaped, with the apex downward; turbinate.  TOP-SHELL Top"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of marine top_shaped shells of the genus Thochus, or family Trochidæ. 

TOPSOIL:  The upper layer of soil; surface soil. 

TOPSOILING:  The act or art of taking off the top soil of land before an excavation or embankment is begun. 

TOPSTONE:  A stone that is placed on the top, or which forms the top.  TOPSY-TURVY Top"sy-*tur"vy, adv. Etym: [Earlier topside-turvey, topsy-tervy; probably for top so turvy; that is, the top as turvy, as it were turvy; where turvy probably means, overturned, fr. AS. torfian to throw.]  In an inverted posture; with the top or head downward; upside down; as, to turn a carriage topsy-turvy.  TOP-TACKLE Top"-tac`kle, n. (Naut.)  A tackle used in hoisting and lowering the topmast.  TOP-TIMBERS Top"-tim`bers, n. (Naut.)  The highest timbers on the side of a vessel, being those above the futtocks. R. H. Dana, Jr.  TOP-TOOL Top"-tool`, n. (Blacksmithing.)  A tool applied to the top of the work, in distinction from a tool inserted in the anvil and on which the work is placed. 

TOQUE:  A variety of the bonnet monkey. 

TOQUET:  See Toque, 1. 

TOR:  To scratch to pieces. [Obs.] Chaucer.  TORAH; TORA To"rah, To"ra, n.; pl. Toroth (#). [Heb. torah.] (Jewish Lit.)  (a) A law; a precept.  A considerable body of priestly Toroth. S. R. Driver.  (b) Divine instruction; revelation.  Tora, . . . before the time of Malachi, is generally used of the revelations of God's will made through the prophets. T. K. Cheyne.  (c) The Pentateuch or "Law of Moses."  The Hebrew Bible is divided into three parts: (1) The Torah, "Law," or Pentateuch. (2) The Prophets . . . (3) The Kethubim, or the "Writings," generally termed Hagiographa. C. H. H. Wright.  TORAN; TORANA To"ran, To"ra*na, n. [Skr. toransa an arch, a gate.] (Indian Arch.)  A gateway, commonly of wood, but sometimes of stone, consisting of two upright pillars carrying one to three transverse lintels. It is often minutely carved with symbolic sculpture, and serves as a monumental approach to a Buddhist temple. 

TORBERNITE:  A mineral occurring in emerald-green tabular crystals having a micaceous structure. It is a hydrous phosphate of uranium and copper. Called also copper uranite, and chalcolite. 

TORC:  Same as Torque, 1. 

TORCH:  A light or luminary formed of some combustible substance, as of resinous wood; a large candle or flambeau, or a lamp giving a large, flaring flame. They light the nuptial torch. Milton. Torch thistle. (Bot.) See under Thistle. 

TORCHBEARER:  One whose office it is to carry a torch. 

TORCHER:  One who gives light with a torch, or as if with a torch. [Obs.] Shak. 

TORCHLIGHT:  The light of a torch, or of torches. Also adjectively; as, a torchlight procession.  TORCHON LACE Tor"chon lace` Etym: [F. torchon a kind of coarse napkin.]  a simple thread lace worked upon a pillow with coarse thread; also, a similar lace made by machinery.  TORCHON PAPER Tor"chon pa"per. [F. papier torchon.]  Paper with a rough surface; esp., handmade paper of great hardness for the use of painters in water colors.  TORCH RACE Torch race.  A race by men carrying torches, as in ancient Greece. 

TORCHWOOD:  The inflammable wood of certain trees (Amyris balsamifera, A. Floridana, etc.); also, the trees themselves. 

TORCHWORT:  The common mullein, the stalks of which, dipped in suet, anciently served for torches. Called also torch, and hig-taper. 

TORE:  imp. of Tear. 

TORE:  The dead grass that remains on mowing land in winter and spring. [Prov. Eng.] Mortimer. 

TORE:  Same as Torus.  2. (Geom.) (a) The surface described by the circumference of a circle revolving about a straight line in its own plane. (b) The solid inclosed by such a surface; -- sometimes called an anchor ring. 

TOREADOR:  A bullfighter.  TO-REND To-rend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. To-rent.] Etym: [Pref. to- + rend.]  To rend in pieces. [Obs.] The wolf hath many a sheep and lamb to-rent. Chaucer. 

TORET:  A Turret. [Obs.] 

TORET:  A ring for fastening a hawk's leash to the jesses; also, a ring affixed to the collar of a dog, etc. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOREUMATOGRAPHY:  A description of sculpture such as bas-relief in metal. 

TOREUMATOLOGY:  The art or the description of scupture such as bas-relief in metal; toreumatography. 

TOREUTIC:  In relief; pertaining to sculpture in relief, especially of metal; also, pertaining to chasing such as surface ornamentation in metal. 

TORGOCH:  The saibling. [Prov. Eng.] 

TORILTO:  A species of Turnix (Turnix sylvatica) native of Spain and Northen Africa. 

TORINESE:  Of or pertaining to Turin.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native or inhabitant of Turin; collectively, the people of Turin. 

TORMENT:  An engine for casting stones. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.  2. Extreme pain; anguish; torture; the utmost degree of misery, either of body or mind. Chaucer. The more I see Pleasures about me, so much more I feel Torment within me. Milton.  3. That which gives pain, vexation, or misery. They brought unto him all sick people that were taken with divers diseases and torments. Matt. iv. 24. 

TORMENTFUL:  Full of torment; causing, or accompainied by, torment; excruciating. [R.] Tillotson. 

TORMENTIL:  A rosaceous herb (Potentilla Tormentilla), the root of which is used as a powerful astringent, and for alleviating gripes, or tormina, in diarrhea. 

TORMENTING:  Causing torment; as, a tormenting dream.  -- Tor*ment"ing*ly, adv. 

TORMENTISE:  Torture; torment. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TORMENTOR:  An implement for reducing a stiff soil, resembling a harrow, but running upon wheels. Hebert. 

TORMENTRESS:  A woman who torments. Fortune ordinarily cometh after to whip and punish them, as the scourge and tormentress of glory and honor. Holland. 

TORMENTRY:  Anything producing torment, annoyance, or pain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TORMINA:  acute, colicky pains; gripes. 

TORMINOUS:  Affected with tormina; griping. 

TORN:  p. p. of Tear. 

TORNADO:  A violent whirling wind; specifically (Meteorol.), a tempest distinguished by a rapid whirling and slow progressive motion, usually accompaned with severe thunder, lightning, and torrents of rain, and commonly of short duration and small breadth; a small cyclone. 

TORNARIA:  The peculiar free swimming larva of Balanoglossus. See Illust. in Append. 

TOROSE:  Cylindrical with alternate swellings and contractions; having the surface covered with rounded prominences. 

TOROSITY:  The quality or state of being torose. 

TOROUS:  Torose. 

TORPEDINOUS:  Of or pertaining to a torpedo; resembling a torpedo; exerting a benumbing influence; stupefying; dull; torpid. Fishy were his eyes; torpedinous was his manner. De Quincey. 

TORPEDO:  Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes belonging to Torpedo and allied genera. They are related to the rays, but have the power of giving electrical shocks. Called also crampfish, and numbfish. See Electrical fish, under Electrical.  Note: The common European torpedo (T. vulgaris) and the American species (T. occidentalis) are the best known.  2. An engine or machine for destroying ships by blowing them up. Specifically: -- (a) A quantity of explosives anchored in a channel, beneath the water, or set adrift in a current, and so arranged that they will be exploded when touched by a vessel, or when an electric circuit is closed by an operator on shore. (b) A kind of small submarine boat carrying an explosive charge, and projected from a ship against another ship at a distance, or made self-propelling, and otherwise automatic in its action against a distant ship.  3. (Mil.)  A kind of shell or cartridge buried in earth, to be exploded by electricity or by stepping on it.  4. (Railroad)  A kind of detonating cartridge or shell placed on a rail, and exploded when crushed under the locomotive wheels, -- used as an alarm signal.  5. An explosive cartridge or shell lowered or dropped into a bored oil well, and there exploded, to clear the well of obstructions or to open communication with a source of supply of oil.  6. A kind of firework in the form of a small ball, or pellet, which explodes when thrown upon a hard object. Fish torpedo, a spindle- shaped, or fish-shaped, self-propelling submarine torpedo.  -- Spar torpedo, a canister or other vessel containing an explosive charge, and attached to the end of a long spar which projects from a ship or boat and is thrust against an enemy's ship, exploding the torpedo.  -- Torpedo boat, a vessel adapted for carrying, launching, operating, or otherwise making use of, torpedoes against an enemy's ship.  -- Torpedo nettings, nettings made of chains or bars, which can be suspended around a vessel and allowed to sink beneath the surface of the water, as a protection against torpedoes. 

TORPEDO:  to destroy by, or subject to the action of, a torpedo. London Spectator.  TORPEDO-BOAT DESTROYER Tor*pe"do-boat` de*stroy"er.  A larger, swifter, and more powerful armed type of torpedo boat, originally intended principally for the destruction of torpedo boats, but later used also as a more formidable torpedo boat.  TORPEDO BODY Tor*pe"do body.  An automobile body which is built so that the side surfaces are flush. [Cant]  TORPEDO BOOM Tor*pe"do boom.  A spar formerly carried by men-of-war, having a torpedo on its end.  TORPEDO CATCHER Tor*pe"do catch"er.  A small fast vessel for pursuing and destroying torpedo boats. 

TORPEDOIST:  One skilled in the theory or use of torpedoes; also, one who favors the use of torpedoes.  TORPEDO SHELL Torpedo shell. (Ordnance)  A shell longer than a deck-piercing shell, with thinner walls and a larger cavity for the bursting charge, which consists of about 130 pounds of high explosive. It has no soft cap, and is intended to effect its damage by the powerful explosion which follows on slight resistance. It is used chiefly in 12-inch mortars.  TORPEDO STATION Torpedo station.  A headquarters for torpedo vessels and their supplies, usually having facilities for repairs and for instruction and experiments. The principal torpedo station of the United States is at Newport, R.I.  TORPEDO STERN Torpedo stern.  A broad stern without overhang, flattened on the bottom, used in some torpedo and fast power boats. It prevents settling in the water at high speed.  TORPEDO TUBE Torpedo tube. (Nav.)  A tube fixed below or near the water line through which a torpedo is fired, usually by a small charge of gunpowder. On torpedo vessels the tubes are on deck and usually in broadside, on larger vessels usually submerged in broadside and fitted with a movable shield which is pushed out from the vessel's side to protect the torpedo until clear, but formerly sometimes in the bow. In submarine torpedo boats they are in the bow. 

TORPENT:  Having no motion or activity; incapable of motion; benumbed; torpid. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

TORPESCENCE:  The quality or state or being torpescent; torpidness; numbness; stupidity. 

TORPESCENT:  Becoming torpid or numb. Shenstone. 

TORPIDITY:  Same as Torpidness. 

TORPIDLY:  In a torpid manner. 

TORPIDNESS:  The qualityy or state of being torpid. 

TORPIFY:  To make torpid; to numb, or benumb. 

TORPITUDE:  Torpidness. [Obs.] "In a kind of torpitude, or sleeping state." Derham. 

TORPORIFIC:  Tending to produce torpor. 

TORQUATE:  Collared; having a torques, or distinct colored ring around the neck. 

TORQUATED:  Having or wearing a torque, or neck chain. 

TORQUE:  That which tends to produce torsion; a couple of forces. J. Thomson.  3. (Phys. Science)  A turning or twisting; tendency to turn, or cause to turn, about an axis. 

TORQUED:  Twisted; bent; -- said of a dolphin haurient, which forms a figure like the letter S. 

TORQUES:  A cervical ring of hair or feathers, distinguished by its color or structure; a collar. 

TORREFACTION:  The act or process of torrefying, or the state of being torrefied. Bp. Hall. 

TORREFY:  To subject to scorching heat, so as to drive off volatile ingredients; to roast, as ores.  3. (Pharm.)  To dry or parch, as drugs, on a metallic plate till they are friable, or are reduced to the state desired.  TORRENS SYSTEM Tor"rens sys`tem.  A system of registration of titles to land (as distinct from registration of deeds) introduced into South Australia by the Real Property (or Torrens) Act (act 15 of 1857-58), drafted by Sir Robert Torrens (1814-84). Its essential feature is the guaranty by the government of properly registered titles. The system has been generally adopted in Australia and British Columbia, and in its original or a modified form in some other countries, including some States of the United States. Hence Torrens title, etc. 

TORRENT:  Rolling or rushing in a rapid stream. "Waves of torrent fire." Milton.  TORRENTIAL; TORRENTINE Tor*ren"tial, Tor*ren"tine, a.  Of or pertaining to a torrent; having the character of a torrent; caused by a torrent . [R.] 

TORRICELLIAN:  Of or pertaining to Torricelli, an Italian philosopher and mathematician, who, in 1643, discovered that the rise of a liquid in a tube, as in the barometer, is due to atmospheric pressure. See Barometer. Torricellian tube, a glass tube thirty or more inches in length, open at the lower end and hermetically sealed at the upper, such as is used in the barometer.  -- Torricellian vacuum (Physics), a vacuum produced by filling with a fluid, as mercury, a tube hermetically closed at one end, and, after immersing the other end in a vessel of the same fluid, allowing the inclosed fluid to descend till it is counterbalanced by the pressure of the atmosphere, as in the barometer. Hutton. 

TORRIDITY:  Torridness. [R.] 

TORRIDNESS:  The quality or state of being torrid or parched. 

TORRIL:  A worthless woman; also, a worthless horse. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

TORROCK:  A gull. [Prov. Eng.] 

TORSADE:  A twisted cord; also, a molded or worked ornament of similar form.  The crown decked with torsades of pearls. Harper's Mag. 

TORSAL:  A torsel. Knight. 

TORSE:  A wreath.  2. Etym: [F. tors, torse, twisted.] (Geom.)  A developable surface. See under Developable. 

TORSEL:  A plate of timber for the end of a beam or joist to rest on. Gwilt 

TORSIBILLTY:  The tendency, as of a rope, to untwist after being twisted. 

TORSION:  That force with which a thread, wire, or rod of any material, returns, or tends to return, to a state of rest after it has been twisted; torsibility. Angle of torsion (of a curve) (Geom.), the indefinitely small angle between two consecutive osculating planes of a curve of double curvature.  -- Moment of torsion (Mech.) the moment of a pair of equal and opposite couples which tend to twist a body.  -- Torsion balance (Physics.), an instrument for estimating very minute forces, as electric or magnetic attractions and repulsions, by the torsion of a very slender wire or fiber having at its lower extremity a horizontal bar or needle, upon which the forces act.  -- Torsion scale, a scale for weighing in which the fulcra of the levers or beams are strained wires or strips acting by torsion. 

TORSIONAL:  Of or pertaining to torsion; resulting from torsion, or the force with which a thread or wire returns to a state of rest after having been twisted round its axis; as, torsional force.  TORSION ELECTROMETER Tor"sion e*lec*trom"e*ter. (Elec.)  A torsion balance used for measuring electric attraction or repulsion.  TORSION GALVANOMETER Torsion galvanometer. (Elec.)  A galvanometer in which current is measured by torsion.  TORSION HEAD Torsion head.  That part of a torsion balance from which the wire or filament is suspended.  TORSION INDICATOR Torsion indicator.  An autographic torsion meter.  TORSION METER Torsion meter. (Mech.)  An instrument for determining the torque on a shaft, and hence the horse power of an engine, esp. of a marine engine of high power, by measuring the amount of twist of a given length of the shaft. Called also torsimeter, torsiometer, torsometer. 

TORSO:  The human body, as distinguished from the head and limbs; in sculpture, the trunk of a statue, mutilated of head and limbs; as, the torso of Hercules. 

TORT:  Any civil wrong or injury; a wrongful act (not involving a breach of contract) for which an action will lie; a form of action, in some parts of the United States, for a wrong or injury. Executor de son tort. See under Executor.  -- Tort feasor (Law), a wrongdoer; a trespasser. Wharton. 

TORT:  Stretched tight; taut. [R.] Yet holds he them with tortestrein. Emerson. 

TORTA:  a flat heap of moist, crushed silver ore, prepared for the patio process. 

TORTEAU:  A roundel of a red color. 

TORTICOLLIS:  See Wryneck. 

TORTILE:  Twisted; wreathed; coiled. 

TORTILITY:  The quality or state of being tortile, twisted, or wreathed. 

TORTILLA:  An unleavened cake, as of maize flour, baked on a heated iron or stone. 

TORTION:  Torment; pain. [Obs.] Bacon. 

TORTIOUS:  Imploying tort, or privat injury for which the law gives damages; involing tort. 

TORTIOUSLY:  In a tortous manner. 

TORTIVE:  Twisted; wreathed. Shak. 

TORTOISE:  Any one of numerous species of reptiles of the order Testudinata.  Note: The term is applied especially to the land and fresh-water species, while the marine species are generally called turtles, but the terms tortoise and turtle are used synonymously by many writers. see Testudinata, Terrapin, and Turtle.  2. (Rom. Antiq.)  Same as Testudo, 2. Box tortoise, Land tortoise, etc. See under Box, Land, etc.  -- Painted tortoise. (Zoöl.) See Painted turtle, under Painted.  -- Soft-shell tortoise. (Zoöl.) See Trionyx.  -- Spotted tortoise. (Zoöl.) A small American fresh-water tortoise (Chelopus, or Nanemys, quttatus) having a blackish carapace on which are scattered round yellow spots.  -- Tortoise beetle (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small tortoise-shaped beetles. Many of them have a brilliant metallic luster. the larvæ feed upon the leaves of various plants, and protect themselves beneath a mass of dried excrement held over the back by means of the caudal spines. The golden tortoise beetle (Cassida aurichalcea) is found on the morning-glory vine and allied plants.  -- Tortoise plant. (Bot.) See Elephant's foot, under Elephant.  -- Tortoise shell, the substance of the shell or horny plates of several species of sea turtles, especially of the hawkbill turtle. It is used in inlaying and in the manufacture of various ornamental articles.  -- Tortoise-shell butterfly (Zoöl.), any one of several species of handsomely colored butterflies of the genus Aglais, as A. Milberti, and A. urticæ, both of which, in the larva state, feed upon nettles.  -- Tortoise-shell turtle (Zoöl.), the hawkbill turtle. See Hawkbill.  having a color like that aof a toroise's shell, black with white and orange spots; -- used mostly to describe cats of that color. n.  a tortoise-shell cat. 

TORTRICID:  Of or pertaining to Tortix, or the family Tortricidæ. 

TORTRIX:  Any one of numerous species of small moths of the family Tortricidæ, the larvæ of which usually roll up the leaves of plants on which they live; -- also called leaf roller.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of tropical short-tailed snakes, which are not venomous. One species (Tortrix scytalæ) is handsomely banded with black, and is sometimes worn alive by the natives of Brazil for a necklace. 

TORTULOUS:  Swelled out at intervals like a knotted cord. 

TORTUOSE:  Wreathed; twisted; winding. Loudon 

TORTUOSLTY:  the quality or state of being tortuous. 

TORTUOUS:  Oblique; -- applied to the six signs of the zodiac (from Capricorn to Gemini) which ascend most rapidly and obliquely. [Obs.] Skeat. Infortunate ascendent tortuous. Chaucer. --Tor"tu*ous*ly, adv.  -- Tor"tu*ous*ness, n. 

TORTURABLE:  Capable of being tortured. 

TORTURER:  One who tortures; a tormentor. 

TORTURINGLY:  So as to torture. Beau. & Fl. 

TORTUROUS:  Involving, or pertaining to, torture. [R.] "The torturous crucifixion." I. Disraeli. 

TORULAFORM:  Having the appearance of a torula; in the form of a little chain; as, a torulaform string of micrococci. 

TORULOSE:  Same as Torose. 

TORULOUS:  Same as Torose. 

TORUS:  A lage molding used in the bases of columns. Its profile is semicircular. See Illust. of Molding. Brande&C.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the ventral parapodia of tubicolous annelids. It usually has the form of an oblong thickening or elevation of the integument with rows of uncini or hooks along the center. See Illust. under Tubicolæ.  3. (Bot.)  The receptacle, or part of the flower on which the carpels stand.  4. (Geom.)  See 3d Tore, 2. 

TORVED:  Stern; grim. See Torvous. [Obs.] But yesterday his breath Awed Rome, and his least torved frown was death. J. Webster (1654). 

TORVITY:  Sourness or severity of countenance; sterness. [Obs.] 

TORVOUS:  Sour of aspect; of a severe countenance; stern; grim. [Obs.] That torvous, sour look produced by anger. Derham. 

TORY:  A member of the conservative party, as opposed to the progressive party which was formerly called the Whig, and is now called the Liberal, party; an earnest supporter of exsisting royal and ecclesiastical authority.  Note: The word Tory first occurs in English history in 1679, during the struggle in Parliament occasioned by the introduction of the bill for the exclusion of the duke of York from the line of succession, and was applied by the advocates of the bill to its opponents as a title of obloquy or contempt. The Tories subsequently took a broader ground, and their leading principle became the maintenance of things as they were. The name, however, has for several years ceased to designate an existing party, but is rather applied to certain traditional maxims of public policy. The political successors of the Tories are now commonly known as Conservatives. New Am. Cyc.  2. (Amer. Hist.)  One who, in the time of the Revolution, favored submitting tothe claims of Great Britain against the colonies; an adherent tothe crown. 

TORY:  Of ro pertaining to the Tories. 

TORYISM:  The principles of the Tories. 

TOSCATTER:  To scatter in pieces; to divide. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOSE:  To tease, or comb, as wool. [Obs.or Prov. Eng.] 

TOSH:  Neat; trim. [Scot.] Jomieson. 

TOSHRED:  To cut into shreads or pieces. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOSS:  , v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tossed (; (less properly Tost ); p. pr. & vb. n. Tossing.] Etym: [ W. tosiaw, tosio, to jerk, toss, snatch, tosa quick jerk, a toss, a snatch. ]  1. To throw with the hand; especially, to throw with the palm of the hand upward, or to throw upward; as, to toss a ball.  2. To lift or throw up with a sudden or violent motion; as, to toss the head. He tossed his arm aloft, and proudly told me, He would not stay. Addison.  3. To cause to rise and fall; as, a ship tossed on the waves in a storm. We being exceedingly tossed with a tempeat. Act xxvii. 18.  4. To agitate; to make restless. Calm region once, And full of peace, now tossed and turbulent. Milton.  5. Hence, to try; to harass. Whom devils fly, thus is he tossed of men. Herbert.  6. To keep in play; to tumble over; as, to spend four years in tossing the rules of grammar. [Obs.] Ascham. To toss off, to drink hastily.  -- To toss the cars.See under Oar, n. 

TOSSEL:  See Tassel. 

TOSSER:  Ohe who tosser. J. Fletcher. 

TOSSILY:  In a tossy manner. [R.] 

TOSSPOT:  A toper; one habitually given to strong drink; a drunkard. Shak. 

TOSSY:  Tossing the head, as in scorn or pride; hence, proud; contemptuous; scornful; affectedly indifferent; as, a tossy commonplace. [R.] C. Kingsley. 

TOST:  imp. & p. p. of Toss. 

TOSTO:  Quick; rapid. Pui tosto ( Etym: [It.] (Mus.), faster; more rapid. 

TOSWINK:  To labor excessively. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOTA:  The grivet. 

TOTAL:  Whole; not divided; entire; full; complete; absolute; as, a total departure from the evidence; a total loss. " Total darkness." "To undergo myself the total crime." Milton. Total abstinence. See Abstinence, n., 1.  -- Total depravity. (Theol.) See Original sin, under Original.  Syn: Whole; entire; complete. See Whole. 

TOTAL:  The whole; the whole sum or amount; as, these sums added make the grand total of five millions. 

TOTALIS:  The total.  I look on nothing but totalis. B. Jonson. 

TOTALISATOR:  Same as Totalizator. 

TOTALIZATION:  Act of totalizing, or state of being totalized. 

TOTALIZATOR:  A machine for registering and indicating the number and nature of bets made on horse races, as in Australia and South Africa. Called also totalizer. 

TOTALIZE:  To make total, or complete;to reduce to completeness. Coleridge. 

TOTALIZER:  Same as Totalizator. 

TOTALLY:  In a total manner; wholly; entirely. 

TOTALNESS:  The quality or state of being total; entireness; totality. 

TOTARA:  A coniferous tree (Podocarpus totara), next to the kauri the most valuable timber tree of New Zeland. Its hard reddish wood is used for furniture and building, esp. in wharves, bridges, etc. Also mahogany pine. 

TOTE:  To carry or bear; as, to tote a child over a stream; -- a colloquial word of the Southern States, and used esp. by negroes. 

TOTE:  The entire body, or all; as, the whole tote. [Colloq.] 

TOTEAR:  To tear or rend in pieces. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOTEM:  A rude picture, as of a bird, beast, or the like, used by the Nord American Indians as a symbolic designation, as of a family or a clan. And they painted on the grave posts Of the graves, yet unforgotten, Each his own ancestral totem Each the symbol of his household; Figures of the bear and reindeer, Of the turtle, crane, and beaver. Longfellow. The totem,the clan deity, the beast or bird who in some supernatural way attends tothe clan and watches over it. Bagehot. 

TOTEMIC:  Of or pertaining to a totem, or totemism. 

TOTEMIST:  One belonging to a clan or tribe having a totem.  -- To`tem*is"tic, a.  TOTEM POLE; TOTEM POST To"tem pole or post.  A pole or pillar, carved and  painted with a series of totemic symbols, set up  before the house of certain Indian tribes of the northwest coast of North America, esp. Indians of the Koluschan stock. 

TOTER:  The stone roller. See Stone roller (a), under Stone.  T'OTHER T'oth"er.  A colloquial contraction of the other, and formerly a contraction for that other. See the Note under That, 2. The tothir that was crucifield with him. Wyclif(John xix. 32) 

TOTIPALMATE:  Having all four toes united by a web;-said of certain sea birds, as the pelican and the gannet. See Illust. under Aves. 

TOTIPALMI:  A division of swimming birds including those that have totipalmate feet. 

TOTIPRESENCE:  Omnipresence. [Obs.] A. Tucker. 

TOTIPRESENT:  Omnipresence. [Obs.] A. Tucker. 

TOTTERER:  One who totters. 

TOTTERINGLY:  In a tottering manner. 

TOTTERY:  Trembling or vaccilating, as if about to fall; unsteady; shaking. Johnson. 

TOTTLE:  To walk in a wavering, unsteady manner; to toddle; to topple. [Colloq.] 

TOTTLISH:  Trembling or tottering, as if about to fall; un steady. [Colloq. U.S.] 

TOTTY:  Unsteady; dizzy; tottery. [Obs.or Prov. Eng.] Sir W. Scott. For yet his noule [head] was totty of the must. Spenser. 

TOTY:  Totty. [Obs.] My head is totty of my swink to-night. Chaucer. 

TOTY:  A sailor or fisherman;-so called in some parts of the Pacific. 

TOUCAN:  Any one of numerous species of fruit-eating birds of tropical America belonging to Ramphastos, Pteroglossus, and allied genera of the family Ramphastidæ. They have a very large, but light and thin, beak, often nearly as long as the body itself. Most of the species are brilliantly colored with red, yellow, white, and black in striking contrast.  2. (Astronom.)  A modern constellation of the southern hemisphere. 

TOUCANET:  A small toucan. 

TOUCH:  To be tangent to. See Tangent, a.  18. To lay a hand upon for curing disease. To touch a sail (Naut.), to bring it so close to the wind that its weather leech shakes.  -- To touch the wind (Naut.), to keep the ship as near the wind as possible.  -- To touch up, to repair; to improve by touches or emendation. 

TOUCH:  To be brought, as a sail, so close to the wind that its weather leech shakes. To touch and go (Naut.), to touch bottom lightly and without damage, as a vessel in motion.  -- To touch at, to come or go to, without tarrying; as, the ship touched at Lisbon.  -- To touch on or upon, to come or go to for a short time. [R.] I made a little voyage round the lake, and touched on the several towns that lie on its coasts. Addison. 

TOUCH:  The sense by which pressure or traction exerted on the skin is recognized; the sense by which the properties of bodies are determined by contact; the tactile sense. See Tactile sense, under Tactile. The spider's touch, how exquisitely fine. Pope.  Note: Pure tactile feelings are necessarily rare, since temperature sensations and muscular sensations are more or less combined with them. The organs of touch are found chiefly in the epidermis of the skin and certain underlying nervous structures.  3. Act or power of exciting emotion. Not alone The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches, Do strongly speak to us. Shak.  4. An emotion or affection. A true, natural, and a sensible touch of mercy. Hooker.  5. Personal reference or application. [Obs.] Speech of touch toward others should be sparingly used. Bacon.  6. A stroke; as, a touch of raillery; a satiric touch; hence, animadversion; censure; reproof. I never bare any touch of conscience with greater regret. Eikon Basilike.  7. A single stroke on a drawing or a picture. Never give the least touch with your pencil till you have well examined your design. Dryden.  8. Feature; lineament; trait. Of many faces, eyes, and hearts, To have the touches dearest prized. Shak.  9. The act of the hand on a musical instrument; bence, in the plural, musical notes. Soft stillness and the night Become the touches of sweet harmony. Shak.  10. A small quantity intermixed; a little; a dash. Eyes La touch of Sir Peter Lely in them. Hazlitt. Madam, I have a touch of your condition. Shak.  11. A hint; a suggestion; slight notice. A small touch will put him in mind of them. Bacon.  12. A slight and brief essay. [Colloq.] Print my preface in such form as, in the booksellers' phrase, will make a sixpenny touch. Swift.  13. A touchstone; hence, stone of the sort used for touchstone. [Obs.] " Now do I play the touch." Shak. A neat new monument of touch and alabaster. Fuller.  14. Hence, examination or trial by some decisive standard; test; proof; tried quality. Equity, the true touch of all laws. Carew. Friends of noble touch . Shak.  15. (Mus.)  The particular or characteristic mode of action, or the resistance of the keys of an instrument to the fingers; as, a heavy touch, or a light touch, also, the manner of touching, striking, or pressing the keys of a piano; as, a legato touch; a staccato touch.  16. (Shipbilding)  The broadest part of a plank worked top and but (see Top and but, under Top, n.), or of one worked anchor-stock fashion (that is, tapered from the middle to both ends); also, the angles of the stern timbers at the counters. J. Knowles.  17. (Football)  That part of the field which is beyond the line of flags on either side. Encyc. of Rural Sports.  18. A boys' game; tag. In touch (Football), outside of bounds. T. Hughes.  -- To be in touch, to be in contact, or in sympathy.  -- To keep touch. (a) To be true or punctual to a promise or engagement [Obs.]; hence, to fulfill duly a function. My mind and senses keep touch and time. Sir W. Scott. (b) To keep in contact; to maintain connection or sympathy;-with with or of.  -- Touch and go, a phrase descriptive of a narrow escape.  -- True as touch (i.e., touchstone), quite true. [Obs.] 

TOUCHABLE:  Capable of being touched; tangible.  -- Touch"a*ble*ness, n. 

TOUCHBACK:  The act of touching the football down by a player behind his own goal line when it received its last impulse from an opponent; -- distinguished from safety touchdown.  TOUCH-BOX Touch"-box`, n.  A box containing lighted tinder, formerly carried by soldiers who used matchlocks, to kindle the match. 

TOUCHDOWN:  The act of touching the football down behind the opponents' goal . Safety touchdown. See under Safety. 

TOUCHHOLE:  The vent of a cannot or other firearm, by which fire is communicateed to the powder of the charge. 

TOUCHILY:  In a touchy manner. 

TOUCHINESS:  The quality or state of being touchy peevishness; irritability; irascibility. 

TOUCHING:  Affecting; moving; pathetic; as, a touching tale.  -- Touch"ing*ly, adv. 

TOUCHING:  Concerning; with respect to. Now, as touching things offered unto idols. 1 Cor. viii. 1. 

TOUCHING:  The sense or act of feeling; touch.  TOUCH-ME-NOT Touch"-me-not`, n. (Bot.) (a) See Impatiens. (b) Squirting cucumber. See under Cucumber.  TOUCH-NEEDLE Touch"-nee`dle, n. (Metal.)  A small bar of gold and silver, either pure, or alloyed in some known proportion with copper, for trying the purity of articles of gold or silver by comparison of the streaks made by the article and the bar on a touchstone.  TOUCH-PAPER Touch"-pa`per, n.  Paper steeped in saltpeter, which burns slowly, and is used as a match for firing gunpowder, and the like. 

TOUCHSTONE:  Lydian stone; basanite; -- so called because used to test the purity of gold and silver by the streak which is left upon the stone when it is rubbed by the metal. See Basanite.  2. Fig.:  Any test or criterion by which the qualities of a thing are tried. Hooker. The foregoing doctrine affords us also a touchstone for the trial of spirits. South. Irish touchstone (Min.), basalt, the stone which composes the Giant's Causeway. 

TOUCHY:  Peevish; irritable; irascible; techy; apt to take fire. [Colloq.] It may be said of Dryden that he was at no time touchy about personal attacks. Saintsbury. 

TOUGH:  See Tough-pitch (b). 

TOUGHEN:  To grow or make tough, or tougher.  TOUGH-HEAD Tough"-head`, n. (Zoöl.)  The ruddy duck. [ Local U.S. ] 

TOUGHISH:  Tough in a slight degree. 

TOUGHLY:  In a tough manner. 

TOUGHNESS:  The quality or state of being tough.  TOUGH-PITCH Tough"-pitch`, n. (Metal.) (a) The exact state or quality of texture and consistency of well reduced and refined copper. (b) Copper so reduced; -- called also tough-cake. 

TOUITE:  The wood warbler. [Prov. Eng.]  TOUPEE; TOUPET Tou*pee", Tou*pet"(), n. Etym: [F. toupet, dim. of OF. top a tuft; of Teutonic origin, and akin to E. top. See Top apex, and cf. Topet.]  1. A little tuft; a curl or artificial lock of hair.  2. A small wig, or a toppiece of a wig. Her powdered hair is turned backward over a toupee. G. Eliot. 

TOUPETTIT:  The crested titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

TOUR:  A tower. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOUR:  anything done successively, or by regular order; a turn; as, a tour of duty.  Syn.  -- Journey; excursion. See Journey. 

TOUR:  To make a tourm; as, to tour throught a country. T. Hughes. 

TOURACO:  Same as Turacou. 

TOURBILLION:  An ornamental firework which turns round, when in the air, so as to form a scroll of fire. G. Francis.  TOURING CAR Tour"ing car.  An automobile designed for touring; specif., a roomy car, not a limousine, for five or more passengers. 

TOURIST:  One who makes a tour, or performs a journey in a circuit. 

TOURMALINE:  A mineral occurring usually in three-sided or six-sided prisms terminated by rhombohedral or scalenohedral planes. Black tourmaline (schorl) is the most common variety, but there are also other varieties, as the blue (indicolite), red (rubellite), also green, brown, and white. The red and green varieties when transparent are valued as jewels. [Written also turmaline .]  Note: Crystals of tourmaline when heated exhibit electric polarity (see Pyroelectric, n.). Tourmaline is also used in the form of a polariscope called tourmaline tongs. 

TOURN:  The sheriff's turn, or court. 

TOURNERY:  Work turned on a lathe; turnery.[Obs.] See Turnery. Evelyn. 

TOURNEY:  A tournament. Bacon. At tilt or tourney or like warlike game. Spenser. We hold a tourney here to-morrow morn, And there is scantly time for half the work. Tennyson. 

TOURNEY:  To perform in tournaments; to tilt. Well could he tourney, and in lists debate. Spenser. 

TOURNIQUET:  An instrument for arresting hemorrhage. It consists essentially of a pad or compress upon which pressure is made by a band which is tightened by a screw or other means. 

TOURNOIS:  A former French money of account worth 20 sous, or a franc. It was thus called in distinction from the Paris livre, which contained 25 sous. 

TOURNURE:  To pull; to haul; to tear; to worry. [Prov. Eng.] Shak. As a bear, whom angry curs have touzed. Spenser. 

TOUSE:  A pulling; a disturbance. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

TOUSEL:  Same as Tousle. [Colloq.] 

TOUSER:  One who touses. [Prov. Eng.] 

TOUSLE:  To put into disorder; to tumble; to touse. [Colloq.]  TOUS-LES-MOIS Tous`-les`-mois", n. Etym: [F., all the months, i.e., every month.]  A kind of starch with very large, oval, flattened grains, often sold as arrowroot, and extensively used for adulterating cocoa. It is made from the rootstocks of a species of Canna, probably C. edulis, the tubers of which are edible every month in the year. 

TOUSY:  Tousled; tangled; rough; shaggy. [Colloq.] 

TOUT:  One who secretly watches race horses which are in course of training, to get information about their capabilities, for use in betting. [Cant. Eng.] 

TOUT:  To toot a horn. 

TOUT:  The anus. [Obs.] Chaucer.  TOUT-ENSEMBLE Tout`-en`sem"ble, n. Etym: [F.]  All together; hence, in costume, the fine arts, etc., the general effect of a work as a whole, without regard to the execution of the separate perts. 

TOUTER:  One who seeks customers, as for an inn, a public conveyance, shops, and the like: hence, an obtrusive candidate for office. [Colloq.] The prey of ring droppers, . . . duffers, touters, or any of those bloodless sharpers who are, perhaps, better known to the police. Dickens. 

TOUZE:  See Touse. [Prov. Eng.] 

TOW:  The coarse and broken part of flax or hemp, separated from the finer part by the hatchel or swingle. 

TOW:  To draw or pull through the water, as a vessel of any kind, by means of a rope. 

TOWALL:  A towel. [Obs.] Chaucer.  TOWARD; TOWARDS To"ward, To"wards, prep.Etym: [AS. To, and -ward, wards.]  1. In the direction of; to. He set his face toward the wilderness. Num. xxiv. 1. The waves make towards'' the pebbled shore. Shak.  2. With direction to, in a moral sense; with respect or reference to; regarding; concerning. His eye shall be evil toward his brother. Deut. xxviii. 54. Herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void of offense toward God, and toward men. Acts xxiv. 16.  3. Tending to; in the direction of; in behalf of. This was the first alarm England received towards any trouble. Clarendom.  4. Near; about; approaching to. I am toward nine years older since I left you. Swift.  TOWARD; TOWARDS To"ward, To"wards adv.  Near; at hand; in state of preparation. Do you hear sught, sir, of a battle toward Shak. We have a trifling foolish banquet Towards. Shak. 

TOWARDLINESS:  The quality or state of being towardly; docility; tractableness. The beauty and towardliness of these children moved her brethren to envy. Sir W. Raleigh. 

TOWARDLY:  Same as Toward, a., 2. He's towardly and will come on apace. Dryden. 

TOWARDNESS:  Quality or state of being toward. 

TOWARDS:  See Toward. 

TOWEL:  A cloth used for wiping, especially one used for drying anything wet, as the person after a bath. Towel gourd (Bot.), the fruit of the cucurbitaceous plant Luffa Ægyptiaca; also, the plant itself. The fruit is very fibrous, and, when separated from its rind and seeds, is used as a sponge or towel. Called also Egyptian bath sponge, and dishcloth. 

TOWEL:  To beat with a stick. [Prov. Eng.] 

TOWELING:  Cloth for towels, especially such as is woven in long pieces to be cut at will, as distinguished from that woven in towel lengths with borders, etc. [Written also towelling.] 

TOWER:  To rise and overtop other objects; to be lofty or very high; hence, to soar. On the other side an high rock towered still. Spenser. My lord protector's hawks do tower so well. Shak. 

TOWER:  To soar into. [Obs.] Milton. 

TOWERED:  Adorned or defended by towers. Towered cities please us then. Milton. 

TOWERY:  Having towers; adorned or defended by towers. [R.] "Towery cities." Pope.  TOW-HEAD Tow"-head`, n.  1. An urchin who has soft, whitish hair. [Colloq.]  2. (Zoöl.)  The hooded merganser. [ Local, U.S. ] 

TOWHEE:  The chewink. 

TOWILLY:  The sanderling; -- so called from its cry. [Prov. Eng.] 

TOWLINE:  A line used to tow vessels; a towrope. 

TOWN:  A town officer who makes proclamations to the people; the public crier of a town. 

TOWNED:  Having towns; containing many towns. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 

TOWNHALL:  A public hall or building, belonging to a town, where the public offices are established, the town council meets, the people assemble in town meeting, etc. 

TOWNHOUSE:  A building devoted to the public used of a town; a townhall. 

TOWNISH:  Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of a town; like the town. [R.] Turbervile. 

TOWNLESS:  Having no town. Howell. 

TOWNLET:  A small town. North Brit. Rev. 

TOWNSFOLK:  The people of a town; especially, the inhabitants of a city, in distinction from country people; townspeople. 

TOWNSPEOPLE:  The inhabitants of a town or city, especially in distinction from country people; townsfolk.  TOWNWARD; TOWNWARDS Town"ward, Town"wards,, adv.  Toward a town. Longfellow. 

TOWPATH:  A path traveled by men or animals in towing boats; -- called also towing path. 

TOWROPE:  A rope used in towing vessels. 

TOWSER:  A familiar name for a dog. [ Written also Towzer. ] 

TOWY:  Composed of, or like, tow.  TOXAEMIA; TOXEMIA Tox*ae"mi*a or Tox*e"mi*a, a. Etym: [NL.,fr.Gr. (Med.)  Blood poisoning. See under Blood. 

TOXALBUMIN:  Any of a class of toxic substances of protein nature; a toxin.  TOXIC; TOXICAL Tox"ic, Tox"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. toxicum poison, originally, a poison in which arrows were dipped, Gr. Intoxicate.]  Of or pertaining to poison; poisonous; as, toxic medicines. 

TOXICANT:  A poisonous agent or drug, as opium; an intoxicant. 

TOXICATION:  Poisoning. 

TOXICITY:  The quality or state of being toxic or poisonous; poisonousness. 

TOXICOGENIC:  Producing toxic products; as, toxicogenic germs or bacteria. 

TOXICOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to toxicology.  -- Tox`i*co*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

TOXICOLOGIST:  One versed in toxicology; the writer of a treatise on poisons. 

TOXICOLOGY:  The science which treats of poisons, their effects, antidotes, and recignition; also, a discourse or treatise on the science. 

TOXICOMANIA:  Toxiphobia. A. S. Taylor.  2. (Med.)  An insane desire for intoxicating or poisonous drugs, as alcohol or opium. B. W. Richardson. 

TOXIFERA:  Same as Toxoglossa.  TOXIN; TOXINE Tox"in, Tox"ine, n. Etym: [Gr.Toxic. ]  A poisonous product formed by pathogenic bacteria, as a toxic proteid or poisonous ptomaine. 

TOXIPHOBIA:  An insane or greatly exaggerated dread of poisons. 

TOXODON:  A gigantic extinct herbivorous mammal from South America, having teeth bent like a bow. It is the type of the order Toxodonta. 

TOXODONTA:  An extinct order of Mammalia found in the South American Tertiary formation. The incisor teeth were long and curved and provided with a persistent pulp. They are supposed to be related both to the rodents and ungulates. Called also Toxodontia. 

TOXOGLOSSA:  A division of marine gastropod mollusks in which the radula are converted into poison fangs. The cone shells (Conus), Pleurotoma, and Terebra, are examples. See Illust. of Cone, n., 4, Pleurotoma, and Terebra. 

TOXOID:  An altered form of a toxin, possessing little or no toxic power. 

TOXOPHILITE:  A lover of archery; one devoted to archery. 

TOXOTES:  A genus of fishes comprising the archer fishes. See Archer fish. 

TOY:  A headdress of linen or woolen, that hangs down over the shoulders, worn by old women of the lower classes; -- called also toy mutch. [Scot.] "Having, moreover, put on her clean toy, rokelay, and scarlet plaid." Sir W. Scott. 

TOY:  To dally amorously; to trifle; to play. To toy, to wanton, dally, smile and jest. Shak. 

TOY:  To treat foolishly. [Obs.] E. Dering (1576). 

TOYEAR:  This year. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TOYER:  One who toys; one who is full of trifling tricks; a trifler. 

TOYFUL:  Full of trifling play. [Obs.] Donne. 

TOYHOUSE:  A house for children to play in or to play with; a playhouse. 

TOYINGLY:  In a toying manner. 

TOYMAN:  One who deals toys. 

TOYSHOP:  A shop where toys are sold. 

TOYSOME:  Disposed to toy; trifling; wanton. [R.] Ford. 

TOZE:  To pull violently; to touse. [Obs.] 

TOZY:  Soft, like wool that has been teased.  -- To"zi*ness, n. 

TRABEA:  A toga of purple, or ornamented with purple horizontal stripes.  -- worn by kings, consuls, and augurs. Dr. W. Smith. 

TRABEATED:  Furnished with an entablature. 

TRABEATION:  Same as Entablature. 

TRABECULA:  A small bar, rod, bundle of fibers, or septal membrane, in the framework of an organ part. 

TRABECULAR:  Of or pertaining to a trabecula or trabeculæ; composed of trabeculæ. 

TRABECULATE:  Crossbarred, as the ducts in a banana stem. 

TRABU:  Same as Trubu. 

TRACE:  One of two straps, chains, or ropes of a harness, extending from the collar or breastplate to a whiffletree attached to a vehicle or thing to be drawn; a tug. 

TRACE:  A very small quantity of an element or compound in a given substance, especially when so small that the amount is not quantitatively determined in an analysis;-hence, in stating an analysis, often contracted to tr.  3. A mark, impression, or visible appearance of anything left when the thing itself no longer exists; remains; token; vestige. The shady empire shall retain no trace Of war or blood, but in the sylvan chase. Pope.  4. (Descriptive Geom.&Persp.)  The intersection of a plane of projection, or an original plane, with a coordinate plane.  5. (Fort.)  The ground plan of a work or works. Syn.-Vestige; mark; token. See Vestige. 

TRACE:  To walk; to go; to travel. [Obs.] Not wont on foot with heavy arms to trace. Spenser. 

TRACEABLE:  Capable of being traced.  -- Trace"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Trace"a/bly, adv. 

TRACER:  One who, or that which, traces. 

TRACERY:  Ornamental work with rambled lines. Especially: -- (a) The decorative head of a Gothic window.  Note: Window tracery is of two sorts, plate tracery and bar tracery. Plate tracery, common in Italy, consists of a series of ornamental patterns cut through a flat plate of stone. Bar tracery is a decorative pattern formed by the curves and intersections of the molded bars of the mullions. Window tracery is imitated in many decorative objects, as panels of wood or metal either pierced or in relief. See also Stump tracery under Stump, and Fan tracery under Fan. (b) A similar decoration in some styles of vaulting, the ribs of the vault giving off the minor bars of which the tracery is composed. 

TRACHEA:  The windpipe. See Illust. of Lung.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the respiratory tubes of insects and arachnids.  3. (Bot.)  One of the large cells in woody tissue which have spiral, annular, or other markings, and are connected longitudinally so as to form continuous ducts. 

TRACHEAL:  Of or pertaining to the trachea; like a trachea. 

TRACHEARIA:  A division of Arachnida including those that breathe only by means of tracheæ. It includes the mites, ticks, false scorpions, and harvestmen. 

TRACHEARY:  Tracheal; breathing by means of tracheæ.  -- n. (Zoöl.)  One of the Trachearia. 

TRACHEATA:  An extensive division of arthropods comprising all those which breathe by tracheæ, as distinguished from Crustacea, which breathe by means of branchiæ. 

TRACHEATE:  Breathing by means of tracheæ; of or pertaining to the Tracheata. 

TRACHEATE:  Any arthropod having tracheæ; one of the Tracheata. 

TRACHEID:  A wood cell with spiral or other markings and closed throughout, as in pine wood. 

TRACHEITIS:  Inflammation of the trachea, or windpipe. 

TRACHELIDAN:  Any one of a tribe of beetles (Trachelides) which have the head supported on a pedicel. The oil beetles and the Cantharides are examples. 

TRACHELIPOD:  One of the Trachelipoda. 

TRACHELIPODA:  An extensive artificial group of gastropods comprising all those which have a spiral shell and the foot attached to the base of the neck. 

TRACHELIPODOUS:  Having the foot united with the neck; of or pertainingto the Trachelipoda. 

TRACHELOBRANCHIATE:  Having the gills situated upon the neck; -- said of certain mollusks. 

TRACHELORRHAPHY:  The operation of sewing up a laceration of the neck of the uterus. 

TRACHENCHYMA:  A vegetable tissue consisting of tracheæ. 

TRACHEOBRANCHIA:  One of the gill-like breathing organs of certain aquatic insect larvæ. They contain tracheal tubes somewhat similar to those of other insects. 

TRACHEOBRONCHIAL:  Pertaining both to the tracheal and bronchial tubes, or to their junction; -- said of the syrinx of certain birds. 

TRACHEOPHONAE:  A group of passerine birds having the syrinx at the lower end of the trachea. 

TRACHEOSCOPY:  Examination of the interior of the trachea by means of a mirror. 

TRACHEOTOMY:  The operation of making an opening into the windpipe. 

TRACHINOID:  Of, pertaining to, or like, Trachinus, a genus of fishes which includes the weevers. See Weever. 

TRACHITIS:  Tracheitis. 

TRACHOMA:  Granular conjunctivitis due to a specific micrococcus. -- Tra*chom"a*tous (#), a. 

TRACHYCARPOUS:  Rough-fruited. Gray. 

TRACHYMEDUSAE:  A division of acalephs in which the development is direct from the eggs, without a hydroid stage. Some of the species are parasitic on other medusæ. 

TRACHYSPERMOUS:  Rough-seeded. Gray. 

TRACHYSTOMATA:  An order of tailed aquatic amphibians, including Siren and Pseudobranchus. They have anterior legs only, are eel-like in form, and have no teeth except a small patch on the palate. The external gills are persistent through life. 

TRACHYTE:  An igneous rock,usually light gray in color and breaking with a rough surface. It consists chiefly of orthoclase feldspar with sometimes hornblende and mica. 

TRACHYTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, trachyte. 

TRACHYTOID:  Resembling trachyte; -- used to define the structure of certain rocks. 

TRACK:  The entire lower surface of the foot;-said of birds, ect.  4. A road; a beaten path. Behold Torquatus the same track pursue. Dryden.  5. Course; way; as, the track of a comet.  6. A path or course laid out for a race, for exercise, ect.  7. (Raolroad)  The permanent way; the rails.  8. Etym: [Perhaps a mistake for tract.]  A tract or area, as of land. [Obs.] "Small tracks of ground." Fuller. Track scale, a railway scale. See under Railway. 

TRACK:  To follow the tracks or traces of; to pursue by following the marks of the feet; to trace; to trail; as, to track a deer in the snow. It was often found impossible to track the robbers to their retreats among the hills and morasses. Macaulay.  2. (Naut.)  To draw along continuously, as a vessel, by a line, men or animals on shore being the motive power; to tow. 

TRACKAGE:  The act of tracking, or towing, as a boat; towage. 

TRACKER:  In the organ, a light strip of wood connecting (in path) a key and a pallet, to communicate motion by pulling. 

TRACKLAYER:  Any workman engaged in work involved in putting the track in place. [U. S. & Canada] -- Track"lay`ing, n. 

TRACKLESS:  Having no track; marked by no footsteps; untrodden; as, a trackless desert. To climb the trackless mountain all unseen. Byron. -- Track"less*ly, adv.-Track"less*ness, n. 

TRACKMAN:  One employed on work on the track; specif., a trackwalker.  TRACKMASTER; ROADMASTER Track"mas`ter, Road"mas`ter, n. (Railroad)  One who has charge of the track; --called also roadmaster.  TRACK-ROAD Track"-road`, n.  A towing path. 

TRACKSCOUT:  See Trackschuyt. 

TRACKWALKER:  A person employed to walk over and inspect a section of tracks. 

TRACKWAY:  Any of two or more narrow paths, of steel, smooth stone, or the like, laid in a public roadway otherwise formed of an inferior pavement, as cobblestones, to provide an easy way for wheels. 

TRACT:  A written discourse or dissertation, generally of short extent; a short treatise, especially on practical religion. The church clergy at that writ the best collection of tracts against popery that ever appeared. Swift. Tracts for the Times. See Tractarian. 

TRACT:  Verses of Scripture sung at Mass, instead of the Alleluia, from Septuagesima Sunday till the Saturday befor Easter;-so called because sung tractim,or without a break, by one voice, instead of by many as in the antiphons.  Syn.  -- Region; district; quarter; essay; treatise; dissertation. 

TRACT:  To trace out; to track; also, to draw out; to protact. [Obs.] Spenser. B. Jonson. 

TRACTABILITY:  The quality or state of being tractable or docile; docility; tractableness. 

TRACTARIAN:  One of the writers of the Oxford tracts, called "Tracts for the Times," issued during the period 1833-1841, in which series of papers the sacramental system and authority of the Church, and the value of tradition, were brought into prominence. Also, a member of the High Church party, holding generally the principles of the Tractarian writers; a Puseyite. 

TRACTARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Tractarians, or their principles. 

TRACTARIANISM:  The principles of the Tractarians, or of those persons accepting the teachings of the "Tracts for the Times." 

TRACTATE:  A treatise; a tract; an essay. Agreeing in substance with Augustin's, from whose fourteenth Tractate on St. John the words are translated. Hare. 

TRACTATION:  Treatment or handling of a subject; discussion. [Obs.] A full tractation of the points controverted. Bp. Hall. 

TRACTATOR:  One who writes tracts; specif., a Tractarian. [R.] C. Kingsley. 

TRACTILE:  Capable of being drawn out in length; ductile. Bacon. 

TRACTILITY:  The quality of being tractile; ductility. Derham. 

TRACTIONAL:  Of or relating to traction.  TRACTION WHEEL Traction wheel. (Mach.)  (a) A locomotive driving wheel which acts by friction adhesion to a smooth track.  (b) A smooth-rimmed friction wheel for giving motion to an endless link belt or the like. 

TRACTITE:  A Tractarian. 

TRACTITIOUS:  Treating of; handling. [R.] 

TRACTIVE:  Serving to draw; pulling; attracting; as, tractive power. 

TRACTOR:  Two small, pointed rods of metal, formerly used in the treatment called Perkinism. 

TRACTORATION:  See Perkinism.  TRACTOR SCREW; TRACTOR PROPELLER Tractor screw or propeller. (Aviation)  A propeller screw placed in front of the supporting planes of an aëroplane instead of behind them, so that it exerts a pull instead of a push. Hence, Tractor monoplane, Tractor biplane, etc. 

TRACTORY:  A tractrix. 

TRACTRIX:  A curve such that the part of the tangent between the point of tangency and a given straight line is constant; -- so called because it was conceived as described by the motion of one end of a tangent line as the other end was drawn along the given line. 

TRAD:  imp. of Tread. Chaucer. 

TRADE:  The trade winds.  9. Refuse or rubbish from a mine. [Prov. Eng.]  Syn.  -- Profession; occupation; office; calling; avocation; employment; commerce; dealing; traffic. Board of trade. See under Board.  -- Trade dollar. See under Dollar.  -- Trade price, the price at which goods are sold to members of the same trade, or by wholesale dealers to retailers. Trade sale, an auction by and for the trade, especially that of the booksellers.  -- Trade wind, a wind in the torrid zone, and often a little beyond at, which blows from the same quarter throughout the year, except when affected by local causes; -- so called because of its usefulness to navigators, and hence to trade.  Note: The general direction of the trade winds is from N. E. to S. W. on the north side of the equator, and from S. E. to N. W. on the south side of the equator. They are produced by the joint effect of the rotation of the earth and the movement of the air from the polar toward the equatorial regions, to supply the vacancy caused by heating, rarefaction, and consequent ascent of the air in the latter regions. The trade winds are principally limited to two belts in the tropical regions, one on each side of the equator, and separated by a belt which is characterized by calms or variable weather. 

TRADE:  To sell or exchange in commerce; to barter. They traded the persons of men. Ezek. xxvii. 13. To dicker and to swop, to trade rifles and watches. Cooper. 

TRADE:  imp. of Tread. 

TRADED:  Professional; practiced. [Obs.] Shak. 

TRADEFUL:  Full of trade; busy in traffic; commercial. Spenser. 

TRADELESS:  Having no trade or traffic. Young.  TRADE-MARK Trade"-mark`, n.  A peculiar distinguishing mark or device affixed by a manufacturer or a merchant to his goods, the exclusive right of using which is recognized by law.  TRADE NAME Trade name.  1.  (a) The name by which an article is called among traders, etc.; as, tin spirits is a common trade name in the dyeing industry for various solutions of tin salts.  (b) An invented or arbitrary adopted name given by a manufacturer or merchant to an article to distinguish it as produced or sold by him.  2.  The name or style under which a concern or firm does business. This name becomes a part of the good will of a business; it is not protected by the registration acts, but a qualified common-law protection against its misuse exists, analogous to that existing in the case of trade-marks. 

TRADESCANTIA:  A genus including spiderwort and Wandering Jew. 

TRADESFOLK:  People employed in trade; tradesmen. [R.] Swift. 

TRADESPEOPLE:  People engaged in trade; shopkeepers.  TRADES UNION; TRADE UNION trades" un`ion, or Trade" un`ion.  An organized combination among workmen for the purpose of maintaining their rights, privileges, and interests with respect to wages, hours of labor, customs, etc.  TRADES-UNIONIST; TRADE-UNIONIST Trades"-un`ion*ist, or Trade"-un`ion*ist, n.  A member of a trades union, or a supporter of trades unions. 

TRADESWOMAN:  A woman who trades, or is skilled in trade. 

TRADITION:  To transmit by way of tradition; to hand down. [Obs.] The following story is . . . traditioned with very much credit amongst our English Catholics. Fuller. 

TRADITIONALISM:  A system of faith founded on tradition; esp., the doctrine that all religious faith is to be based solely upon what is delivered from competent authority, exclusive of rational processes. 

TRADITIONALIST:  An advocate of, or believer in, traditionalism; a traditionist. 

TRADITIONALLY:  In a traditional manner. 

TRADITIONARILY:  By tradition. 

TRADITIONARY:  Traditional. The reveries of the Talmud, a collection of Jewish traditionary interpolations. Buckminster. 

TRADITIONARY:  One, among the Jews, who acknowledges the authority of traditions, and explains the Scriptures by them.  TRADITIONER; TRADITIONIST Tra*di"tion*er, Tra*di"tion*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. traditionniste.]  One who adheres to tradition. 

TRADITIVE:  Transmitted or transmissible from father to son, or from age, by oral communication; traditional. [R.] Jer. Taylor. Suppose we on things traditive divide. Dryden. 

TRADITOR:  A deliverer; -- a name of infamy given to Christians who delivered the Scriptures, or the goods of the church, to their persecutors to save their lives. Milner. 

TRADUCEMENT:  The act of traducing; misrepresentation; ill-founded censure; defamation; calumny. [R.] Shak. 

TRADUCENT:  Slanderous. [R.] Entick. 

TRADUCIAN:  A believer in traducianism. 

TRADUCIANISM:  The doctrine that human souls are produced by the act of generation; -- opposed to creationism, and infusionism. 

TRADUCINGLY:  In a traducing manner; by traduction; slanderously. 

TRADUCT:  To derive or deduce; also, to transmit; to transfer. [Obs.] Fotherby. 

TRADUCT:  That which is traducted; that which is transferred; a translation. [Obs.] Howell. 

TRADUCTION:  A process of reasoning in which each conclusion applies to just such an object as each of the premises applies to. Jevons. 

TRADUCTIVE:  Capable of being deduced; derivable. [R.] Bp. Warburton. 

TRAFFIC:  To exchange in traffic; to effect by a bargain or for a consideration. 

TRAFFICABLE:  Capable of being disposed of in traffic; marketable. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

TRAFFICKER:  One who traffics, or carries on commerce; a trader; a merchant. 

TRAFFICLESS:  Destitute of traffic, or trade.  TRAFFIC MILE Traf"fic mile. (Railroad Accounting)  Any unit of the total obtained by adding the passenger miles and ton miles in a railroad's transportation for a given period; -- a term and practice of restricted or erroneous usage.  Traffic mile is a term designed to furnish an excuse for the erroneous practice of adding together two things (ton miles and passenger miles) which, being of different kinds, cannot properly be added. Hadley. 

TRAGACANTH:  A kind of gum procured from a spiny leguminous shrub (Astragalus gummifer) of Western Asia, and other species of Astragalus. It comes in hard whitish or yellowish flakes or filaments, and is nearly insoluble in water, but slowly swells into a mucilaginous mass, which is used as a substitute for gum arabic in medicine and the arts. Called also gum tragacanth. 

TRAGEDIENNE:  A woman who plays in tragedy. 

TRAGEDIOUS:  Like tragedy; tragical. [Obs.] "Tragedious history." Fabyan. 

TRAGIC:  A kind of drama representing some action in which serious and comic scenes are blended; a composition partaking of the nature both of tragedy and comedy. The noble tragi-comedy of "Measure for Measure." Macaulay.  TRAGI-COMIC; TRAGI-COMICAL Trag`i-com"ic, Trag`i-com"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tragi-comique.]  Of or pertaining to tragi-comedy; partaking of grave and comic scenes.  -- Trag`-com"ic*al*ly, adv. Julian felt toward him that tragi-comic sensation which makes us pity the object which excites it not the less that we are somewhat inclined to laugh amid our sympathy. Sir W. Scott.  TRAGI-COMI-PASTORAL Trag`i-com`i-pas"tor*al, a.  Partaking of the nature of, or combining, tragedy, comedy, and pastoral poetry. [R.] Gay. 

TRAGOPAN:  Any one of several species of Asiatic pheasants of the genus Ceriornis. They are brilliantly colored with a variety of tints, the back and breast are usually covered with white or buff ocelli, and the head is ornamented with two bright-colored, fleshy wattles. The crimson tragopan, or horned pheasant (C. satyra), of India is one of the best-known species. 

TRAGUS:  The prominence in front of the external opening of the ear. See Illust. under Ear.  T RAIL T" rail`.  See under T. 

TRAIL:  To carry, as a firearm, with the breech near the ground and the upper part inclined forward, the piece being held by the right hand near the middle.  4. To tread down, as grass, by walking through it; to lay flat. Longfellow.  5. To take advantage of the ignorance of; to impose upon. [Prov. Eng.] I presently perceived she was (what is vernacularly termed) trailing Mrs. Dent; that is, playing on her ignorance. C. Bronte. 

TRAIL:  That part of the stock of a gun carriage which rests on the ground when the piece is unlimbered. See Illust. of Gun carriage, under Gun.  9. The act of taking advantage of the ignorance of a person; an imposition. [Prov. Eng.] Trail boards (Shipbuilding), the carved boards on both sides of the cutwater near the figurehead.  -- Trail net, a net that is trailed or drawn behind a boat. Wright. 

TRAILER:  One who, or that which, trails.  A part of an object which extends some distance beyond the main body of the object; as, the trailer of a plant. trailer park. An area equipped to accommodate trailers (2), often with outlets supplying electrical power and water. Called also trailer camp, trailer court. 

TRAILING:  a. & vb. n. from Trail. Trailing arbutus. (Bot.) See under Arbutus.  -- Trailing spring, a spring fixed in the axle box of the trailing wheels of a locomotive engine, and so placed as to assist in deadening any shock which may occur. Weale.  -- Trailing wheel, a hind wheel of a locomotive when it is not a driving wheel; also, one of the hind wheels of a carriage.  TRAILING EDGE Trail"ing edge. (Aëronautics)  A following edge. See Advancing edge, above.  TRAIL ROPE Trail rope. (Aëronautics)  Same as Guide rope, above. 

TRAIN:  To lead or direct, and form to a wall or espalier; to form to a proper shape, by bending, lopping, or pruning; as, to train young trees. He trained the young branches to the right hand or to the left. Jeffrey.  6. (Mining)  To trace, as a lode or any mineral appearance, to its head. To train a gun (Mil. & Naut.), to point it at some object either forward or else abaft the beam, that is, not directly on the side. Totten.  -- To train, or To train up, to educate; to teach; to form by instruction or practice; to bring up. Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it. Prov. xxii. 6. The first Christians were, by great hardships, trained up for glory. Tillotson. 

TRAIN:  A roll train; as, a 12-inch train. Roll train, or Train of rolls (Rolling Mill), a set of plain or grooved rolls for rolling metal into various forms by a series of consecutive operations.  -- Train mile (Railroads), a unit employed in estimating running expenses, etc., being one of the total number of miles run by all the trains of a road, or system of roads, as within a given time, or for a given expenditure; -- called also mile run.  -- Train of artillery, any number of cannon, mortars, etc., with the attendants and carriages which follow them into the field. Campbell (Dict. Mil. Sci.).  -- Train of mechanism, a series of moving pieces, as wheels and pinions, each of which is follower to that which drives it, and driver to that which follows it.  -- Train road, a slight railway for small cars, -- used for construction, or in mining.  -- Train tackle (Naut.), a tackle for running guns in and out.  Syn.  -- Cars.  -- Train, Cars. Train is the word universally used in England with reference to railroad traveling; as, I came in the morning train. In the United States, the phrase the cars has been extensively introduced in the room of train; as, the cars are late; I came in the cars. The English expression is obviously more appropriate, and is prevailing more and more among Americans, to the exclusion of the cars. 

TRAINABLE:  Capable of being trained or educated; as, boys trainable to virtue. Richardson. 

TRAINBAND:  A band or company of an organized military force instituted by James I. and dissolved by Charles II.; -- afterwards applied to the London militia. [Eng.] He felt that, without some better protection than that of the trainbands and Beefeaters, his palace and person would hardly be secure. Macaulay. A trainband captain eke was he Of famous London town. Cowper. 

TRAINBEARER:  One who holds up a train, as of a robe.  TRAIN DISPATCHER Train dispatcher.  An official who gives the orders on a railroad as to the running of trains and their right of way. 

TRAINEL:  A dragnet. [Obs.] Holland. 

TRAINING:  The act of one who trains; the act or process of exercising, disciplining, etc.; education. Fan training (Hort.), the operation of training fruit trees, grapevines, etc., so that the branches shall radiate from the stem like a fan.  -- Horizontal training (Hort.), the operation of training fruit trees, grapevines, etc., so that the branches shall spread out laterally in a horizontal direction.  -- Training college. See Normal school, under Normal, a.  -- Training day, a day on which a military company assembles for drill or parade. [U. S.] -- Training ship, a vessel on board of which boys are trained as sailors.  Syn.  -- See Education.  TRAIN OIL Train" oil` (oil`). Etym: [D. or LG. traan train oil, blubber (cf. Dan. & Sw. tran, G. thran) + E. oil.]  Oil procured from the blubber or fat of whales, by boiling. 

TRAINY:  Belonging to train oil. [Obs.] Gay. 

TRAIPSE:  To walk or run about in a slatternly, careless, or thoughtless manner. [Colloq.] Pope.  TRAIS; TRAYS Trais, Trays, n. pl.  Traces. [Obs.] Four white bulls in the trays. Chaucer. 

TRAITEUR:  The keeper of an eating house, or restaurant; a restaurateur. Simmonds. 

TRAITOR:  Traitorous. [R.] Spenser. Pope. 

TRAITOR:  To act the traitor toward; to betray; to deceive. [Obs.] " But time, it traitors me." Lithgow. 

TRAITORESS:  A traitress. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

TRAITORLY:  Like a traitor; treacherous; traitorous. [Obs.] "Traitorly rascals." Shak. 

TRAITORY:  Treachery. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TRAITRESS:  A woman who betrays her country or any trust; a traitoress. Dryden. 

TRAJECT:  To throw or cast through, over, or across; as, to traject the sun's light through three or more cross prisms. [R.] Sir I. Newton. 

TRAJECTORY:  The curve which a body describes in space, as a planet or comet in its orbit, or stone thrown upward obliquely in the air.  TRAJET; TRAJETOUR; TRAJETRY Tra"jet, Tra"jet*our, Tra"jet*ry, n.  See Treget, Tregetour, and Tregetry. [Obs.] 

TRALATION:  The use of a word in a figurative or extended sense; ametaphor; a trope. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

TRALATITION:  A change, as in the use of words; a metaphor. 

TRALATITIOUSLY:  , adv. In a tralatitious manner; metephorically. Holder. 

TRALINEATE:  To deviate; to stray; to wander. [Obs.] Dryden. 

TRALUCENCY:  Translucency; as, the tralucency of a gem. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TRALUCENT:  Translucent. [Obs.] The air's tralucent gallery. Sir. J. Davies. 

TRAM:  A silk thread formed of two or more threads twisted together, used especially for the weft, or cross threads, of the best quality of velvets and silk goods. 

TRAMA:  The loosely woven substance which lines the chambers within the gleba in certain Gasteromycetes. 

TRAMBLE:  To wash, as tin ore, with a shovel in a frame fitted for the purpose. Smart. 

TRAMMELED:  Having blazes, or white marks, on the fore and hind foot of one side, as if marked by trammels; -- said of a horse. [Written also trammelled.] 

TRAMMELER:  A circular plate or a cross, with two or more cross grooves intersecting at the center, used on the end of a shaft to transmit motion to another shaft not in line with the first. 

TRAMMING:  The act or process of forming trams. See 2d Tram. 

TRAMONTANA:  A dry, cold, violent, northerly wind of the Adriatic. 

TRAMONTANE:  Lying or being beyond the mountains; coming from the other side of the mountains; hence, foreign; barbarous.  Note: The Italians sometimes use this epithet for ultramontane, and apply it to the countries north of the Alps, as France and Germany, and especially to their ecclesiastics, jurists, painters, etc.; and a north wind is called a tramontane wind. The French lawyers call certain Italian canonists tramontane, or ultramontane, doctors; considering them as favoring too much the court of Rome. See Ultramontane. 

TRAMONTANE:  One living beyond the mountains; hence, a foreigner; a stranger. 

TRAMP:  To travel; to wander; to stroll. 

TRAMPER:  One who tramps; a stroller; a vagrant or vagabond; a tramp. Dickens. 

TRAMPLE:  The act of treading under foot; also, the sound produced by trampling. Milton. The huddling trample of a drove of sheep. Lowell. 

TRAMPLER:  One who tramples; one who treads down; as, a trampler on nature's law. Cowper. 

TRAMPOOSE:  To walk with labor, or heavily; to tramp. [Law, U. S.] Bartlett. 

TRAMRAIL:  An overhead rail forming a track on which a trolley runs to convey a load, as in a shop. 

TRAMROAD:  A road prepared for easy transit of trams or wagons, by forming the wheel tracks of smooth beams of wood, blocks of stone, or plates of iron. 

TRANATION:  The act of swimming over. [Obs.] Bailey. 

TRANCE:  A condition, often simulating death, in which there is a total suspension of the power of voluntary movement, with abolition of all evidences of mental activity and the reduction to a minimum of all the vital functions so that the patient lies still and apparently unconscious of surrounding objects, while the pulsation of the heart and the breathing, although still present, are almost or altogether imperceptible. He fell down in a trance. Chaucer. 

TRANCE:  To pass; to travel. [Obs.] 

TRANECT:  A ferry. [Obs.] Shak. 

TRANGRAM:  Something intricately contrived; a contrived; a puzzle. [Cant & Obs.] Arbuthnot. 

TRANNEL:  A treenail. [R.] Moxon. 

TRANQUIL:  Quiet; calm; undisturbed; peaceful; not agitated; as, the atmosphere is tranquil; the condition of the country is tranquil. A style clear, tranquil, easy to follow. De Quincey.  TRANQUILIZATION; TRANQUILLIZATION Tran`quil*i*za"tion, Tran`quil*li*za"tion, n.  The act of tranquilizing, or the state of being tranquilized.  TRANQUILIZE; TRANQUILLIZE Tran"quil*ize, Tran"quil*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tranquilized or Tranquilliized; p. pr. & vb. n. Tranquilizing or Tranquillizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. tranquilliser.]  To render tranquil; to allay when agitated; to compose; to make calm and peaceful; as, to tranquilize a state disturbed by factions or civil commotions; to tranquilize the mind.  Syn.  -- To quiet; compose; still; soothe; appease; calm; pacify.  TRANQUILIZER; TRANQUILLIZER Tran"quil*i`zer, Tran"quil*li`zer, n.  One who, or that which, tranquilizes.  TRANQUILIZING; TRANQUILLIZING Tran"quil*i`zing, Tran"quil*li`zing, a.  Making tranquil; calming. " The tranquilizing power of time." Wordsworth.  -- Tran"quil*i`zing*ly or Tran"quil*li`zing*ly, adv. 

TRANQUILLITY:  The quality or state of being tranquil; calmness; composure. 

TRANQUILLY:  In a tranquil manner; calmly. 

TRANQUILNESS:  Quality or state of being tranquil.  TRANS- Trans-. Etym: [L. trans across, over.]  A prefix, signifying over, beyond, through and through, on the other side, as in transalpine, beyond the Alps; transform, to form through and through, that is, anew, transfigure. 

TRANSACT:  To carry through; to do; perform; to manage; as, to transact commercial business; to transact business by an agent. 

TRANSACT:  To conduct matters; to manage affairs. [R.] South. 

TRANSACTION:  An adjustment of a dispute between parties by mutual agreement. Transaction of a society, the published record of what it has done or accomplished.  Syn.  -- Proceeding; action; process.  -- Transaction, Proceeding. A transaction is something already done and completed; a proceeding is either something which is now going on, or, if ended, is still contemplated with reference to its progress or successive stages.  Note: " We the word proceeding in application to an affray in the street, and the word transaction to some commercial negotiation that has been carried on between certain persons. The proceeding marks the manner of proceeding, as when we speak of the proceedings in a court of law. The transaction marks the business transacted; as, the transactions on the Exchange." Crabb. 

TRANSACTOR:  One who transacts, performs, or conducts any business. Derham. 

TRANSALPINE:  Being on the farther side of the Alps in regard to Rome, that is, on the north or west side of the Alps; of or pertaining to the region or the people beyond the Alps; as, transalpine Gaul; -- opposed to cisalpine. " Transalpine garbs." Beau. & Fl. 

TRANSALPINE:  A native or inhabitant of a country beyond the Alps, that is, out of Italy. 

TRANSANIMATE:  To animate with a soul conveyed from another body. [R.] Bp. J. King (1608). 

TRANSANIMATION:  The conveyance of a soul from one body to another. [R.] Fuller. 

TRANSAUDIENT:  Permitting the passage of sound. [R.] Lowell. 

TRANSCALENCY:  The quality or state of being transcalent. 

TRANSCALENT:  Pervious to, or permitting the passage of, heat. 

TRANSCENDENT:  Transcending, or reaching beyond, the limits of human knowledge; -- applied to affirmations and speculations concerning what lies beyond the reach of the human intellect. 

TRANSCENDENT:  That which surpasses or is supereminent; that which is very excellent. 

TRANSCENDENTAL:  In the Kantian system, of or pertaining to that which can be determined a priori in regard to the fundamental principles of all human knowledge. What is transcendental, therefore, transcends empiricism; but is does not transcend all human knowledge, or become transcendent. It simply signifies the a priori or necessary conditions of experience which, though affording the conditions of experience, transcend the sphere of that contingent knowledge which is acquired by experience.  3. Vaguely and ambitiously extravagant in speculation, imagery, or diction.  Note: In mathematics, a quantity is said to be transcendental relative to another quantity when it is expressed as a transcendental function of the latter; thus, ax, 102x, log x, sin x, tan x, etc., are transcendental relative to x. Transcendental curve (Math.), a curve in which one ordinate is a transcendental function of the other.  -- Transcendental equation (Math.), an equation into which a transcendental function of one of the unknown or variable quantities enters.  -- Transcendental function. (Math.) See under Function.  Syn.  -- Transcendental, Empirical. These terms, with the corresponding nouns, transcendentalism and empiricism, are of comparatively recent origin. Empirical refers to knowledge which is gained by the experience of actual phenomena, without reference to the principles or laws to which they are to be referred, or by which they are to be explained. Transcendental has reference to those beliefs or principles which are not derived from experience, and yet are absolutely necessary to make experience possible or useful. Such, in the better sense of the term, is the transcendental philosophy, or transcendentalism. Each of these words is also used in a bad sense, empiricism applying to that one-sided view of knowledge which neglects or loses sight of the truths or principles referred to above, and trusts to experience alone; transcendentalism, to the opposite extreme, which, in its deprecation of experience, loses sight of the relations which facts and phenomena sustain to principles, and hence to a kind of philosophy, or a use of language, which is vague, obscure, fantastic, or extravagant. 

TRANSCENDENTAL:  A transcendentalist. [Obs.] 

TRANSCENDENTALISM:  The transcending, or going beyond, empiricism, and ascertaining a priori the fundamental principles of human knowledge.  Note: As Schelling and Hegel claim to have discovered the absolute identity of the objective and subjective in human knowledge, or of things and human conceptions of them, the Kantian distinction between transcendent and transcendental ideas can have no place in their philosophy; and hence, with them, transcendentalism claims to have a true knowledge of all things, material and immaterial, human and divine, so far as the mind is capable of knowing them. And in this sense the word transcendentalism is now most used. It is also sometimes used for that which is vague and illusive in philosophy.  2. Ambitious and imaginative vagueness in thought, imagery, or diction. 

TRANSCENDENTALIST:  One who believes in transcendentalism. 

TRANSCENDENTALITY:  The quality or state of being transcendental. 

TRANSCENDENTALLY:  In a transcendental manner. 

TRANSCENDENTLY:  In a transcendent manner. 

TRANSCENDENTNESS:  Same as Transcendence. 

TRANSCENSION:  The act of transcending, or surpassing; also, passage over. [Obs.] Chapman. 

TRANSCOLATE:  To cause to pass through a sieve or colander; to strain, as through a sieve. [Obs.] Harvey. 

TRANSCOLATION:  Act of transcolating, or state of being transcolated. [Obs.] Bp. Stillingfleet. 

TRANSCONTINENTAL:  Extending or going across a continent; as, a transcontinental railroad or journey. 

TRANSCORPORATE:  To transmigrate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TRANSCRIBBLER:  A transcriber; -- used in contempt. He [Aristotle] has suffered vastly from the transcribblers, as all authors of great brevity necessarily must. Gray. 

TRANSCRIBE:  To write over again, or in the same words; to copy; as, to transcribe Livy or Tacitus; to transcribe a letter. 

TRANSCRIBER:  One who transcribes, or writes from a copy; a copier; a copyist. 

TRANSCRIPT:  A written version of what was said orally; as, a transcript of a trial. 

TRANSCRIPTION:  An arrangement of a composition for some other instrument or voice than that for which it was originally written, as the translating of a song, a vocal or instrumental quartet, or even an orchestral work, into a piece for the piano; an adaptation; an arrangement; -- a name applied by modern composes for the piano to a more or less fanciful and ornate reproduction on their own instrument of a song or other piece not originally intended for it; as, Listzt's transcriptions of songs by Schubert. 

TRANSCRIPTIVE:  Done as from a copy; having the style or appearance of a transcription. [R.] -- Tran*scrip"tive*ly, adv. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

TRANSCUR:  To run or rove to and fro. [Obs.] Bacon. 

TRANSCURRENCE:  A roving hither and thither. 

TRANSCURSION:  A rambling or ramble; a passage over bounds; an excursion. [Obs.] Howell. 

TRANSDIALECT:  To change or translate from one dialect into another. [R.] Bp. Warburton. 

TRANSDUCTION:  The act of conveying over. [R.] Entick. 

TRANSE:  See Trance. [Obs.]  TRANSELEMENT; TRANSELEMENTATE Trans*el"e*ment, Trans*el`e*men"tate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. trans- element.]  To change or transpose the elements of; to transubstantiate. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

TRANSELEMENTATION:  Transubstantiation. [Obs.] 

TRANSENNE:  A transom. [Obs.] 

TRANSEPT:  The transversal part of a church, which crosses at right angles to the greatest length, and between the nave and choir. In the basilicas, this had often no projection at its two ends. In Gothic churches these project these project greatly, and should be called the arms of the transept. It is common, however, to speak of the arms themselves as the transepts. 

TRANSEXION:  Change of sex. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TRANSFEMINATE:  To change into a woman, as a man. [Obs. & R.] Sir T. Browne. 

TRANSFER:  The conveyance of right, title, or property, either real or personal, from one person to another, whether by sale, by gift, or otherwise. I shall here only consider it as a transfer of property. Burke.  3. That which is transferred. Specifically: -- (a) A picture, or the like, removed from one body or ground to another, as from wood to canvas, or from one piece of canvas to another. Fairholt. (b) A drawing or writing printed off from one surface on another, as in ceramics and in many decorative arts. (c) (Mil.) A soldier removed from one troop, or body of troops, and placed in another.  4. (Med.)  A pathological process by virtue of which a unilateral morbid condition on being abolished on one side of the body makes its appearance in the corresponding region upon the other side. Transfer day, one of the days fixed by the Bank of England for the transfer, free of charge, of bank stock and government funds. These days are the first five business days in the week before three o'clock. Transfers may be made on Saturdays on payment of a fee of 2s. 6d. Bithell.  -- Transfer office, an office or department where transfers of stocks, etc., are made.  -- Transfer paper, a prepared paper used by draughtsmen, engravers, lithographers, etc., for transferring impressions.  -- Transfer table. (Railroad) Same as Traverse table. See under Traverse. 

TRANSFERABILITY:  The quality or state of being transferable. 

TRANSFEREE:  The person to whom a transfer in made. 

TRANSFERENCE:  The act of transferring; conveyance; passage; transfer. 

TRANSFEROGRAPHY:  The act or process of copying inscriptions, or the like, by making transfers. 

TRANSFERRENCE:  See Transference. 

TRANSFERRER:  One who makes a transfer or conveyance. 

TRANSFERRIBLE:  Capable of being transferred; transferable. 

TRANSFIGURATE:  To transfigure; to transform. [R.] 

TRANSFIGURATION:  A feast held by some branches of the Christian church on the 6th of August, in commemoration of the miraculous change above mentioned. 

TRANSFIX:  To pierce through, as with a pointed weapon; to impale; as, to transfix one with a dart. 

TRANSFIXION:  The act of transfixing, or the state of being transfixed, or pierced. Bp. Hall. 

TRANSFLUENT:  Passing or flowing through a bridge; -- said of water. Wright. 

TRANSFLUX:  A flowing through, across, or beyond. [R.] 

TRANSFORATE:  To bore through; to perforate. [Obs.] 

TRANSFORM:  To change, as an algebraic expression or geometrical figure, into another from without altering its value. 

TRANSFORM:  To be changed in form; to be metamorphosed. [R.] His hair transforms to down. Addison. 

TRANSFORMABLE:  Capable of being transformed or changed. 

TRANSFORMATION:  The act of transforming, or the state of being transformed; change of form or condition. Specifically: --(a) (Biol.)  Any change in an organism which alters its general character and mode of life, as in the development of the germ into the embryo, the egg into the animal, the larva into the insect (metamorphosis), etc.; also, the change which the histological units of a tissue are prone to undergo. See Metamorphosis. (b) (Physiol.) Change of one from of material into another, as in assimilation; metabolism; metamorphosis. (c) (Alchemy) The imagined possible or actual change of one metal into another; transmutation. (d) (Theol.)  A change in disposition, heart, character, or the like; conversion. (e) (Math.) The change, as of an equation or quantity, into another form without altering the value. 

TRANSFORMATIVE:  Having power, or a tendency, to transform. 

TRANSFORMER:  One who, or that which, transforms. Specif. (Elec.), an apparatus for producing from a given electrical current another current of different voltage. 

TRANSFORMISM:  The hypothesis, or doctrine, that living beings have originated by the modification of some other previously existing forms of living matter; -- opposed to abiogenesis. Huxley. 

TRANSFREIGHT:  To transfrete. [Obs.] Waterhouse. 

TRANSFRETATION:  The act of passing over a strait or narrow sea. [Obs.] Sir J. Davies. 

TRANSFRETE:  To pass over a strait or narrow sea. [Written also transfreight.] [Obs.] E. Hall.  TRANSFUGE; TRANSFUGITIVE Trans"fuge, Trans*fu"gi*tive, n. Etym: [L. transfuga; trans across, over + fugere to flee.]  One who flees from one side to another; hence, a deserter; a turncoat; an apostate. [R.] 

TRANSFUND:  To pour from one vessel into another; to transfuse. [Obs.] Barrow. 

TRANSFUSE:  To transfer, as blood, from the veins or arteries of one man or animal to those of another.  3. To cause to pass from to another; to cause to be instilled or imbibed; as, to transfuse a spirit of patriotism into a man; to transfuse a love of letters. Into thee such virtue and grace Immense I have transfused. Milton. 

TRANSFUSIBLE:  Capable of being transfused; transferable by transfusion. 

TRANSFUSION:  The act or operation of transferring the blood of one man or animal into the vascular system of another; also, the introduction of any fluid into the blood vessels, or into a cavity of the body from which it can readily be adsorbed into the vessels; intrafusion; as, the peritoneal transfusion of milk. 

TRANSFUSIVE:  Tending to transfuse; having power to transfuse. 

TRANSGRESS:  To offend against the law; to sin. Who transgressed in the thing accursed. I Chron. ii. 7. 

TRANSGRESSION:  The act of transgressing, or of passing over or beyond any law, civil or moral; the violation of a law or known principle of rectitude; breach of command; fault; offense; crime; sin. Forgive thy people . . . all their transgressions wherein they have transgressed against thee. I Kings viii. 50. What rests, but that the mortal sentence pass On his transgression, death denounced that day Milton. The transgression is in the stealer. Shak.  Syn.  -- Fault; offense; crime; infringement; misdemeanor; misdeed; affront; sin. 

TRANSGRESSIONAL:  Of pertaining to transgression; involving a transgression. 

TRANSGRESSIVE:  Disposed or tending to transgress; faulty; culpable. - 

TRANSGRESSIVELY:  In a transgressive manner Adam, perhaps, . . . from the transgressive infirmities of himself, might have erred alone. Sir T. Browne. 

TRANSGRESSOR:  One who transgresses; one who breaks a law, or violates a command; one who violates any known rule or principle of rectitude; a sinner. The way of transgressors is hard. Prov. xiii. 15. 

TRANSHAPE:  To transshape. [R.] J. Webster (1623). 

TRANSHIP:  Same as Transship. 

TRANSHIPMENT:  Same as Transshipment. 

TRANSHUMAN:  More than human; superhuman. [R.] Words may not tell of that transhuman change. H. F. Cary. 

TRANSHUMANIZE:  To make more than human; to purity; to elevate above humanity. [R.] Souls purified by sorrow and self-denial, transhumanized to the divine abstraction of pure contemplation. Lowell.  TRANSIENCE; TRANSIENCY Tran"sience, Tran"sien*cy, n.  The quality of being transient; transientness. 

TRANSIENT:  That which remains but for a brief time. Glanvill.  TRANSILIENCE; TRANSILIENCY Tran*sil"i*ence, Tran*sil"i*en*cy, n. Etym: [L. transiliens, p. pr. of transilire to leap across or over; trans across, over + salire to leap.]  A leap across or from one thing to another. [R.] "An unadvised transiliency." Glanvill. 

TRANSIRE:  A customhouse clearance for a coasting vessel; a permit. 

TRANSISTHMIAN:  Extending across an isthmus, as at Suez or Panama. 

TRANSIT:  To pass over the disk of (a heavenly body). 

TRANSITION:  A direct or indirect passing from one key to another; a modulation.  3. (Rhet.)  A passing from one subject to another. [He] with transition sweet, new speech resumes. Milton.  4. (Biol.)  Change from one form to another.  Note: This word is sometimes pronounced tran*sish"un; but according to Walker, Smart, and most other authorities, the customary and preferable pronunciation is tran*sizh"un, although this latter mode violates analogy. Other authorities say tran*zish"un. Transition rocks (Geol.), a term formerly applied to the lowest uncrystalline stratified rocks (graywacke) supposed to contain no fossils, and so called because thought to have been formed when the earth was passing from an uninhabitable to a habitable state. 

TRANSITIONAL:  Of or pertaining to transition; involving or denoting transition; as, transitional changes; transitional stage. 

TRANSITIONARY:  Transitional.  TRANSITION ZONE Tran*si"tion zone. (Biogeography)  The zone lying between the Boreal and Sonoran zones of North America. It includes an eastern or humid subdivision and a western arid one of corresponding temperature comprising the northern Great Plains and the lower slopes of the mountains of the western United States and Mexico. Called also Neutral zone. 

TRANSITIVE:  Passing over to an object; expressing an action which is not limited to the agent or subject, but which requires an object to complete the sense; as, a transitive verb, for example, he holds the book.  -- Tran"si*tive*ly, adv.  -- Tran"si*tive*ness, n. 

TRANSITORILY:  In a transitory manner; with brief continuance. 

TRANSITORINESS:  The quality or state of being transitory; speedy passage or departure. 

TRANSITORY:  Continuing only for a short time; not enduring; fleeting; evanescent. Comfort and succor all those who, in this transitory life, are in trouble. Bk. of Com. Prayer. It was not the transitory light of a comet, which shines and glows for a wile, and then . . . vanishes into nothing. South. Transitory action (Law), an action which may be brought in any county, as actions for debt, and the like; -- opposed to local action. Blackstone. Bouvier.  Syn.  -- transient; short-lived; brief. See Transient. 

TRANSLATABLE:  Capable of being translated, or rendered into another language. 

TRANSLATE:  To remove, as a bishop, from one see to another. "Fisher, Bishop of Rochester, when the king would have translated him from that poor bishopric to a better, . . . refused." Camden.  5. To render into another language; to express the sense of in the words of another language; to interpret; hence, to explain or recapitulate in other words. Translating into his own clear, pure, and flowing language, what he found in books well known to the world, but too bulky or too dry for boys and girls. Macaulay.  6. To change into another form; to transform. Happy is your grace, That can translatethe stubbornness of fortune Into so quiet and so sweet a style. Shak.  7. (Med.)  To cause to remove from one part of the body to another; as, to translate a disease.  8. To cause to lose senses or recollection; to entrance. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 

TRANSLATE:  To make a translation; to be engaged in translation. 

TRANSLATION:  A transfer of meaning in a word or phrase, a metaphor; a tralation. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  5. (Metaph.)  Transfer of meaning by association; association of ideas. A. Tucker.  6. (Kinematics)  Motion in which all the points of the moving body have at any instant the same velocity and direction of motion; -- opposed to rotation. 

TRANSLATITIOUS:  Metaphorical; tralatitious; also, foreign; exotic. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

TRANSLATIVE:  tropical; figurative; as, a translative sense. [R.] Puttenham. 

TRANSLATOR:  A repeating instrument. [Eng.] 

TRANSLATORSHIP:  The office or dignity of a translator. 

TRANSLATORY:  Serving to translate; transferring. [R.] Arbuthnot. 

TRANSLATRESS:  A woman who translates. 

TRANSLAVATION:  A laving or lading from one vessel to another. [Obs.] Holland. 

TRANSLITERATE:  To express or represent in the characters of another alphabet; as, to transliterate Sanskrit words by means of English letters. A. J. Ellis. 

TRANSLITERATION:  The act or product of transliterating, or of expressing words of a language by means of the characters of another alphabet. 

TRANSLOCATION:  removal of things from one place to another; substitution of one thing for another. There happened certain translocations at the deluge. Woodward.  TRANSLUCENCE; TRANSLUCENCY Trans*lu"cence, Trans*lu"cen*cy, n.  The quality or state of being translucent; clearness; partial transparency. Sir T. Browne. 

TRANSLUCENTLY:  In a translucent manner. 

TRANSLUCID:  Translucent. [R.] Bacon. 

TRANSLUNARY:  Being or lying beyond the moon; hence, ethereal; -- opposed to sublunary. [Obs.] Marlowe, bathed in the Thespian springs, Had in him those brave, translunary things That the first poets had. Drayton. 

TRANSMARINE:  Lying or being beyond the sea. Howell.  TRANSMEABLE; TRANSMEATABLE Trans"me*a*ble, Trans`me*at"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. transmeabilis.]  Capable of being passed over or traversed; passable. [Obs.] 

TRANSMEATE:  To pass over or beyond. [Obs.] 

TRANSMEATION:  The act of transmeating; a passing through or beyond. [Obs.] 

TRANSMEW:  To transmute; to transform; to metamorphose. [Archaic] Chaucer. Spenser. To transmew thyself from a holy hermit into a sinful forester. Sir W. Scott. 

TRANSMIGRANT:  Migrating or passing from one place or state to another; passing from one residence to another.  -- n.  One who transmigrates. 

TRANSMIGRATOR:  One who transmigrates. J. Ellis. 

TRANSMIGRATORY:  Passing from one body or state to another. 

TRANSMISSIBILITY:  The quality of being transmissible. 

TRANSMISSIBLE:  Capable of being transmitted from one to another; capable of being passed through any body or substance. 

TRANSMISSION:  The right possessed by an heir or legatee of transmitting to his successor or successors any inheritance, legacy, right, or privilege, to which he is entitled, even if he should die without enjoying or exercising it.  TRANSMISSION DYNAMOMETER Trans*mis"sion dy`na*mom"e*ter. (Mach.)  A dynamometer in which power is measured, without being absorbed or used up, during transmission. 

TRANSMISSIONIST:  An adherent of a theory, the transmission theory, that the brain serves to "transmit," rather than to originate, conclusions, and hence that consciousness may exist independently of the brain. 

TRANSMISSIVE:  Capable of being transmitted; derived, or handed down, from one to another. Itself a sun, it with transmissive light Enlivens worlds denied to human sight. Prior. 

TRANSMITTAL:  Transmission. Swift. 

TRANSMITTANCE:  Transmission. 

TRANSMITTER:  One who, or that which, transmits; specifically, that portion of a telegraphic or telephonic instrument by means of which a message is sent; -- opposed to receiver. 

TRANSMITTIBLE:  Capable of being transmitted; transmissible. 

TRANSMOGRIFICATION:  The act of transmogrifying, or the state of being transmogrified; transformation. [Colloq.] Clive, who wrote me about the transmogrification of our schoolfellow, an attorney's son. Thackeray. 

TRANSMOGRIFY:  To change into a different shape; to transform. [Colloq.] Fielding. 

TRANSMOVE:  To move or change from one state into another; to transform. [Obs.] Spenser. 

TRANSMUTABILITY:  The quality of being transmutable. 

TRANSMUTABLE:  Capable of being transmuted or changed into a different substance, or into into something of a different form a nature; transformable. The fluids and solids of an animal body are easily transmutable into one another. Arbuthnot. -- Trans*mut"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Trans*mut"a*bly, adv. 

TRANSMUTATION:  The change or reduction of one figure or body into another of the same area or solidity, but of a different form, as of a triangle into a square. [R.]  3. (Biol.)  The change of one species into another, which is assumed to take place in any development theory of life; transformism. Bacon. Transmutation of metals (Alchem.), the conversion of base metals into gold or silver, a process often attempted by the alchemists. See Alchemy, and Philosopher's stone, under Philosopher. 

TRANSMUTATIONIST:  One who believes in the transmutation of metals or of species. 

TRANSMUTE:  To change from one nature, form, or substance, into another; to transform. The caresses of parents and the blandishments of friends transmute us into idols. Buckminster. Transmuting sorrow into golden joy Free from alloy. H. Smith. 

TRANSMUTER:  One who transmutes. 

TRANSMUTUAL:  Reciprocal; commutual. [R.] Coleridge. 

TRANSNATATION:  The act of swimming across, as a river. 

TRANSNATURE:  To transfer or transform the nature of. [Obs.] We are transelemented, or transnatured. Jewel. 

TRANSOM:  A horizontal crossbar in a window, over a door, or between a door and a window above it. Transom is the horizontal, as mullion is the vertical, bar across an opening. See Illust. of Mullion.  2. (Naut.)  One of the principal transverse timbers of the stern, bolted to the sternpost and giving shape to the stern structure; -- called also transsummer.  3. (Gun.)  The piece of wood or iron connecting the cheeks of some gun carriages.  4. (Surg.)  The vane of a cross-staff. Chambers.  5. (Railroad)  One of the crossbeams connecting the side frames of a truck with each other. Transom knees (Shipbuilding), knees bolted to the transoms and after timbers.  -- Transom window. (Arch.) (a) A window divided horizontally by a transom or transoms. (b) A window over a door, with a transom between. 

TRANSPADANE:  Lying or being on the further side of the river Po with reference to Rome, that is, on the north side; -- opposed to cispadane. 

TRANSPALATINE:  Situated beyond or outside the palatine bone; -- said of a bone in the skull of some reptiles. 

TRANSPARE:  To be, or cause to be, transparent; to appear, or cause to appear, or be seen, through something. [Obs.] Stirling. 

TRANSPARENCE:  The quality or state of being transparent; transparency. 

TRANSPASS:  To pass over; as, Alexander transpassed the river. [Obs.] J. Gregory. 

TRANSPASS:  To pass by; to pass away. [Obs.] 

TRANSPASSABLE:  Capable of being transpassed, or crossed over. [Obs.] 

TRANSPATRONIZE:  To transfer the patronage of. [Obs.] Warner. 

TRANSPECIATE:  To change from one species to another; to transform. [Obs.] Power to transpeciate a man into a horse. Sir T. Browne. 

TRANSPICUOUS:  Transparent; pervious to the sight. [R.] "The wide, transpicuous air." Milton. 

TRANSPIERCE:  To pierce through; to penetrate; to permeate; to pass through. The sides transpierced return a rattling sound. Dryden. 

TRANSPIRABLE:  Capable of being transpired, or of transpiring. 

TRANSPIRATION:  The act or process of transpiring or excreting in the form of vapor; exhalation, as through the skin or other membranes of the body; as, pulmonary transpiration, or the excretion of aqueous vapor from the lungs. Perspiration is a form of transpiration. Cudworth.  2. (bot.)  The evaporation of water, or exhalation of aqueous vapor, from cells and masses of tissue.  3. (Physics)  The passing of gases through fine tubes, porous substances, or the like; as, transpiration through membranes. 

TRANSPIRATORY:  Of or relating to transpiration. 

TRANSPIRE:  To pass off in the form of vapor or insensible perspiration; to exhale.  2. (Bot.)  To evaporate from living cells.  3. To escape from secrecy; to become public; as, the proceedings of the council soon transpired. The story of Paulina's and Maximilian's mutual attachment had transpired through many of the travelers. De Quincey.  4. To happen or come to pass; to occur.  Note: This sense of the word, which is of comparatively recent introduction, is common in the United States, especially in the language of conversation and of newspaper writers, and is used to some extent in England. Its use, however, is censured by critics of both countries. 

TRANSPIRE:  To excrete through the skin; to give off in the form of vapor; to exhale; to perspire.  2. (Bot.)  To evaporate (moisture) from living cells. 

TRANSPLACE:  To remove across some space; to put in an opposite or another place. [R.] It [an obelisk] was transplaced . . . from the left side of the Vatican into a more eminent place. Bp. Wilkins. 

TRANSPLANTATION:  The removal of tissues from a healthy part, and the insertion of them in another place where there is a lesion; as, the transplantation of tissues in autoplasty. 3. (Surg.)  The removal of a bodily organ or of tissues from one person, and the insertion of them into another person to replace a damaged organ or tissue; as, the transplantation of a heart, kidney, or liver. 

TRANSPLANTER:  One who transplants; also, a machine for transplanting trees. 

TRANSPLENDENCY:  Quality or state of being transplendent. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

TRANSPLENDENT:  Resplendent in the highest degree. [R.] -- Tran*splen"dent*ly, adv. [R.] 

TRANSPORTABILITY:  The quality or state of being transportable. 

TRANSPORTAL:  Transportation; the act of removing from one locality to another. "The transportal of seeds in the wool or fur of quadrupeds." Darwin. 

TRANSPORTANCE:  Transportation. [Obs.] "Give me swift transportance." Shak. 

TRANSPORTANT:  Transporting; as, transportant love. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

TRANSPORTED:  Conveyed from one place to another; figuratively, carried away with passion or pleasure; entranced.  -- Trans*port"ed*ly, adv.  -- Trans*port"ed*ness, n. 

TRANSPORTER:  One who transports. 

TRANSPORTING:  That transports; fig., ravishing. Your transporting chords ring out. Keble. 

TRANSPORTINGLY:  So as to transport. 

TRANSPORTMENT:  The act of transporting, or the state of being transported; transportation. [R.] 

TRANSPOSABLE:  That may transposed; as, a transposable phrase. 

TRANSPOSAL:  The act of transposing, or the state of being transposed; transposition. 

TRANSPOSE:  To bring, as any term of an equation, from one side over to the other, without destroying the equation; thus, if a + b = c, and we make a = c - b, then b is said to be transposed.  4. (Gram.)  To change the natural order of, as words.  5. (Mus.)  To change the key of. 

TRANSPOSER:  One who transposes. 

TRANSPOSITION:  The act of transposing, or the state of being transposed. Specifically: --(a) (Alg.)  The bringing of any term of an equation from one side over to the other without destroying the equation. (b) (Gram.) A change of the natural order of words in a sentence; as, the Latin and Greek languages admit transposition, without inconvenience, to a much greater extent than the English. (c) (Mus.) A change of a composition into another key. 

TRANSPOSITIONAL:  Of or pertaining to transposition; involving transposition. Pegge. 

TRANSPOSITIVE:  Made by transposing; consisting in transposition; transposable. 

TRANSPRINT:  To transfer to the wrong place in printing; to print out of place. [R.] Coleridge. 

TRANSPROSE:  To change from prose into verse; to versify; also, to change from verse into prose. [Obs.] Dryden. 

TRANSREGIONATE:  Foreign. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

TRANSSHAPE:  To change into another shape or form; to transform. [Written also transhape.] Shak. 

TRANSSHIP:  To transfer from one ship or conveyance to another. [Written also tranship.] 

TRANSSHIPMENT:  The act of transshipping, or transferring, as goods, from one ship or conveyance to another. [Written also transhipment.] 

TRANSSUMMER:  See Transom, 2. 

TRANSUBSTANTIATE:  To change, as the sacramental elements, bread and wine, into the flesh and blood of Christ. 

TRANSUBSTANTIATION:  The doctrine held by Roman Catholics, that the bread and wine in the Mass is converted into the body and blood of Christ; -- distinguished from consubstantiation, and impanation. 

TRANSUBSTANTIATOR:  One who maintains the doctrine of transubstantiation. Barrow. 

TRANSUDATION:  Same as Exosmose. 

TRANSUDATORY:  Of or pertaining to transudation; passing by transudation. 

TRANSUDE:  To pass, as perspirable matter does, through the pores or interstices of textures; as, liquor may transude through leather or wood. 

TRANSUME:  To change; to convert. [R.] Crashaw. 

TRANSUMPT:  A copy or exemplification of a record. [Obs.] Lord Herbert. 

TRANSUMPTION:  Act of taking from one place to another. [R.] South. 

TRANSUMPTIVE:  Taking from one to another; metaphorical. [R.] "A transumptive kind of speech." Drayton. Fictive, descriptive, digressive, transumptive, and withal definitive. Lowell. 

TRANSVASATE:  To pour out of one vessel into another. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

TRANSVASATION:  The act or process of pouring out of one vessel into another. [Obs.] Holland. 

TRANSVECTION:  The act of conveying or carrying over. [R.] 

TRANSVERBERATE:  To beat or strike through. [Obs.] 

TRANSVERSAL:  Running or lying across; transverse; as, a transversal line.  -- Trans*ver"sal*ly, adv. 

TRANSVERSAL:  A straight line which traverses or intersects any system of other lines, as a line intersecting the three sides of a triangle or the sides produced. 

TRANSVERSE:  Lying or being across, or in a crosswise direction; athwart; -- often opposed to Ant: longitudinal. Transverse axis (of an ellipse or hyperbola) (Geom.), that axis which passes through the foci.  -- Transverse partition (Bot.), a partition, as of a pericarp, at right angles with the valves, as in the siliques of mustard. 

TRANSVERSE:  The longer, or transverse, axis of an ellipse. 

TRANSVERSE:  To overturn; to change. [R.] C. Leslie. 

TRANSVERSE:  To change from prose into verse, or from verse into prose. [Obs.] Duke of Buckingham. 

TRANSVERSELY:  In a transverse manner. 

TRANSVERSION:  The act of changing from prose into verse, or from verse into prose. 

TRANSVERT:  To cause to turn across; to transverse. [Obs.] Craft of Lovers (1448). 

TRANSVERTIBLE:  Capable of being transverted. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

TRANSVOLATION:  The act of flying beyond or across. Jer. Taylor. 

TRANT:  To traffic in an itinerary manner; to peddle. [Written also traunt.] [Obs.] 

TRANTER:  One who trants; a peddler; a carrier. [Written also traunter.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

TRAP:  To dress with ornaments; to adorn; -- said especially of horses. Steeds . . . that trapped were in steel all glittering. Chaucer. To deck his hearse, and trap his tomb-black steed. Spenser. There she found her palfrey trapped In purple blazoned with armorial gold. Tennyson. 

TRAP:  An old term rather loosely used to designate various dark- colored, heavy igneous rocks, including especially the feldspathic- augitic rocks, basalt, dolerite, amygdaloid, etc., but including also some kinds of diorite. Called also trap rock. Trap tufa, Trap tuff, a kind of fragmental rock made up of fragments and earthy materials from trap rocks. 

TRAP:  Of or pertaining to trap rock; as, a trap dike. 

TRAP:  To set traps for game; to make a business of trapping game; as, to trap for beaver. 

TRAPAN:  A snare; a stratagem; a trepan. See 3d Trepan. South. 

TRAPAN:  To insnare; to catch by stratagem; to entrap; to trepan. Having some of his people trapanned at Baldivia. Anson. 

TRAPANNER:  One who trapans, or insnares. 

TRAPBALL:  An old game of ball played with a trap. See 4th Trap, 4. 

TRAPDOOR:  A lifting or sliding door covering an opening in a roof or floor.  2. (Mining)  A door in a level for regulating the ventilating current; -- called also weather door. Raymond. Trapdoor spider (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large spiders which make a nest consisting of a vertical hole in the earth, lined with a hinged lid, like a trapdoor. Most of the species belong to the genus Cteniza, as the California species (C. Californica). 

TRAPE:  To walk or run about in an idle or slatternly manner; to traipse. [Obs. or Colloq.] 

TRAPES:  A slattern; an idle, sluttish, or untidy woman. [Obs. or Colloq.] 

TRAPES:  To go about in an idle or slatternly fashion; to trape; to traipse. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

TRAPEZATE:  Having the form of a trapezium; trapeziform. 

TRAPEZE:  A trapezium. See Trapezium, 1.  2. A swinging horizontal bar, suspended at each end by a rope; -- used by gymnasts. 

TRAPEZIFORM:  Having the form of a trapezium; trapezoid. 

TRAPEZIUM:  A plane figure bounded by four right lines, of which no two are parallel.  2. (Anat.) (a) A bone of the carpus at the base of the first metacarpal, or thumb. (b) A region on the ventral side of the brain, either just back of the pons Varolii, or, as in man, covered by the posterior extension of its transverse fibers. 

TRAPEZOHEDRAL:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a trapezohedron. 

TRAPEZOID:  A plane four-sided figure, having two sides parallel to each other.  2. (Anat.)  A bone of the carpus at the base of the second metacarpal, or index finger. 

TRAPEZOID:  Of or pertaining to the trapezoid ligament; as, the trapezoid line. 

TRAPEZOIDAL:  Tranpezohedral. 

TRAPHOLE:  See Trou-de-loup. 

TRAPPEAN:  Of or pertaining to trap; being of the nature of trap. 

TRAPPER:  A boy who opens and shuts a trapdoor in a gallery or level. Raymond. 

TRAPPIST:  A monk belonging to a branch of the Cistercian Order, which was established by Armand de Rancé in 1660 at the monastery of La Trappe in Normandy. Extreme austerity characterizes their discipline. They were introduced permanently into the United States in 1848, and have monasteries in Iowa and Kentucky. 

TRAPPOUS:  Of or performance to trap; resembling trap, or partaking of its form or qualities; trappy. 

TRAPPURES:  Trappings for a horse. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TRAPPY:  Same as Trappous. 

TRAPS:  Small or portable articles for dress, furniture, or use; goods; luggage; things. [Colloq.]  TRAP SHOOTING Trap shooting. (Sport)  Shooting at pigeons liberated, or glass balls or clay pigeons sprung into the air, from a trap. -- Trap shooter. 

TRAPSTICK:  A stick used in playing the game of trapball; hence, fig., a slender leg. Addison. 

TRASH:  To follow with violence and trampling. [R.] The Puritan (1607). 

TRASHILY:  In a trashy manner. 

TRASHINESS:  The quality or state of being trashy. 

TRASHY:  Like trash; containing much trash; waste; rejected; worthless; useless; as, a trashy novel. 

TRASS:  A white to gray volcanic tufa, formed of decomposed trachytic cinders; -- sometimes used as a cement. Hence, a coarse sort of plaster or mortar, durable in water, and used to line cisterns and other reservoirs of water. [Formerly written also tarras, tarrace, terras.]  Note: The Dutch trass is made by burning and grinding a soft grayish rock found on the lower Rhine. 

TRAULISM:  A stammering or stuttering. [Obs.] Dalgarno. 

TRAUMATIC:  A traumatic medicine. 

TRAUMATISM:  A wound or injury directly produced by causes external to the body; also, violence producing a wound or injury; as, rupture of the stomach caused by traumatism. 

TRAUNCE:  See Trance. [Obs.] 

TRAUNT:  Same as Trant. [Obs.] 

TRAUNTER:  Same as Tranter. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

TRAVAIL:  To harass; to tire. [Obs.] As if all these troubles had not been sufficient to travail the realm, a great division fell among the nobility. Hayward. 

TRAVAILOUS:  Causing travail; laborious. [Obs.] Wyclif.  -- Trav"ail*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

TRAVE:  A crossbeam; a lay of joists. Maundrell.  2. A wooden frame to confine an unruly horse or ox while shoeing. She sprung as a colt doth in the trave. Chaucer. 

TRAVEL:  An account, by a traveler, of occurrences and observations during a journey; as, a book of travels; -- often used as the title of a book; as, Travels in Italy.  3. (Mach.)  The length of stroke of a reciprocating piece; as, the travel of a slide valve.  4. Labor; parturition; travail. [Obs.] 

TRAVELED:  Having made journeys; having gained knowledge or experience by traveling; hence, knowing; experienced. [Written also travelled.] The traveled thane, Athenian Aberdeen. Byron. 

TRAVELER:  A traveling crane. See under Crane.  4. (Spinning)  The metal loop which travels around the ring surrounding the bobbin, in a ring spinner.  5. (Naut.)  An iron encircling a rope, bar, spar, or the like, and sliding thereon. Traveler's joy (Bot.), the Clematis vitalba, a climbing plant with white flowers.  -- Traveler's tree. (Bot.) See Ravenala.  TRAVEL-TAINTED Trav"el-taint`ed, a.  Harassed; fatigued with travel. [Obs.] Shak. 

TRAVERS:  Across; athwart. [Obs.] The earl . . . caused . . . high trees to be hewn down, and laid travers one over another. Ld. Berners. 

TRAVERSE:  Lying across; being in a direction across something else; as, paths cut with traverse trenches. Oak . . . being strong in all positions, may be better trusted in cross and traverse work. Sir H. Wotton. The ridges of the fallow field traverse. Hayward. Traverse drill (Mach.), a machine tool for drilling slots, in which the work or tool has a lateral motion back and forth; also, a drilling machine in which the spindle holder can be adjusted laterally. 

TRAVERSE:  Athwart; across; crosswise. 

TRAVERSE:  A gallery or loft of communication from side to side of a church or other large building. Gwilt. (d) (Fort.) A work thrown up to intercept an enfilade, or reverse fire, along exposed passage, or line of work. (e) (Law) A formal denial of some matter of fact alleged by the opposite party in any stage of the pleadings. The technical words introducing a traverse are absque hoc, without this; that is, without this which follows. (f) (Naut.) The zigzag course or courses made by a ship in passing from one place to another; a compound course. (g) (Geom.) A line lying across a figure or other lines; a transversal. (h) (Surv.) A line surveyed across a plot of ground. (i) (Gun.) The turning of a gun so as to make it point in any desired direction.  2. A turning; a trick; a subterfuge. [Obs.] To work, or solve, a traverse (Naut.), to reduce a series of courses or distances to an equivalent single one; to calculate the resultant of a traverse.  -- Traverse board (Naut.), a small board hung in the steerage, having the points of the compass marked on it, and for each point as many holes as there are half hours in a watch. It is used for recording the courses made by the ship in each half hour, by putting a peg in the corresponding hole.  -- Traverse jury (Law), a jury that tries cases; a petit jury.  -- Traverse sailing (Naut.), a sailing by compound courses; the method or process of finding the resulting course and distance from a series of different shorter courses and distances actually passed over by a ship.  -- Traverse table. (a) (Naut. & Surv.) A table by means of which the difference of latitude and departure corresponding to any given course and distance may be found by inspection. It contains the lengths of the two sides of a right-angled triangle, usually for every quarter of a degree of angle, and for lengths of the hypothenuse, from 1 to 100. (b) (Railroad) A platform with one or more tracks, and arranged to move laterally on wheels, for shifting cars, etc., from one line of track to another. 

TRAVERSE:  To turn to the one side or the other, in order to point in any direction; as, to traverse a cannon.  6. (Carp.)  To plane in a direction across the grain of the wood; as, to traverse a board.  7. (Law)  To deny formally, as what the opposite party has alleged. When the plaintiff or defendant advances new matter, he avers it to be true, and traverses what the other party has affirmed. To traverse an indictment or an office is to deny it. And save the expense of long litigious laws, Where suits are traversed, and so little won That he who conquers is but last undone. Dryden. To traverse a yard (Naut.), to brace it fore and aft. 

TRAVERSE:  A machine tool for drilling slots, in which the work or tool has a lateral motion back and forth; also, a drilling machine in which the spindle holder can be adjusted laterally. 

TRAVERSER:  One who traverses, or denies.  3. (Railroad)  A traverse table. See under Traverse, n. 

TRAVERSING:  Adjustable laterally; having a lateral motion, or a swinging motion; adapted for giving lateral motion. Traversing plate (Mil.), one of two thick iron plates at the hinder part of a gun carriage, where the handspike is applied in traversing the piece. Wilhelm.  -- Traversing platform (Mil.), a platform for traversing guns. 

TRAVERTINE:  A white concretionary form of calcium carbonate, usually hard and semicrystalline. It is deposited from the water of springs or streams holding lime in solution. Extensive deposits exist at Tivoli, near Rome. 

TRAVESTY:  Disguised by dress so as to be ridiculous; travestied; -- applied to a book or shorter composition. [R.] 

TRAVESTY:  A burlesque translation or imitation of a work. The second edition is not a recast, but absolutely a travesty of the first. De Quincey. 

TRAVESTY:  To translate, imitate, or represent, so as to render ridiculous or ludicrous. I see poor Lucan travestied, not appareled in his Roman toga, but under the cruel shears of an English tailor. Bentley. 

TRAWL:  To take fish, or other marine animals, with a trawl. 

TRAWLBOAT:  A boat used in fishing with trawls or trawlnets. 

TRAWLERMAN:  A fisherman who used unlawful arts and engines to catch fish. [Obs.] Cowell. 

TRAWLNET:  Same as Trawl, n., 2. 

TRAWLWARP:  A rope passing through a block, used in managing or dragging a trawlnet. 

TRAY:  To betray; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TRAYFUL:  As much as a tray will hold; enough to fill a tray. 

TRAYS:  See Trais. Chaucer.  TRAY-TRIP Tray"-trip`, n. Etym: [From Trey a three.]  An old game played with dice. [Obs.] Shak. 

TREACHER:  A traitor; a cheat. [Obs.] Treacher and coward both. Beau. & Fl. 

TREACHEROUS:  Like a traitor; involving treachery; violating allegiance or faith pledged; traitorous to the state or sovereign; perfidious in private life; betraying a trust; faithless. Loyal father of a treacherous son. Shak. The treacherous smile, a mask for secret hate. Cowper.  Syn.  -- Faithless; perfidious; traitorous; false; insidious; plotting.  -- Treach"er*ous*ly, adv.  -- Treach"er*ous*ness, n. 

TREACHERY:  Violation of allegiance or of faith and confidence; treasonable or perfidious conduct; perfidy; treason.  Be ware, ye lords, of their treachery. Chaucer. In the council chamber at Edinburgh, he had contracted a deep taint of treachery and corruption. Macaulay.  TREACHETOUR; TREACHOUR Treach"e*tour, Treach"our, n. Etym: [See Treacher.]  A traitor. [Obs.] "Treachour full of false despite." Spenser. 

TREACLE:  A remedy against poison. See Theriac, 1. We kill the viper, and make treacle of him. Jer. Taylor.  2. A sovereign remedy; a cure. [Obs.] Christ which is to every harm treacle. Chaucer .  3. Molasses; sometimes, specifically, the molasses which drains from the sugar-refining molds, and which is also called sugarhouse molasses.  Note: In the United States molasses is the common name; in England, treacle.  4. A saccharine fluid, consisting of the inspissated juices or decoctions of certain vegetables, as the sap of the birch, sycamore, and the like. Treacle mustard (Bot.), a name given to several species of the cruciferous genus Erysimum, especially the E. cheiranthoides, which was formerly used as an ingredient in Venice treacle, or theriac.  -- Treacle water, a compound cordial prepared in different ways from a variety of ingredients, as hartshorn, roots of various plants, flowers, juices of plants, wines, etc., distilled or digested with Venice treacle. It was formerly regarded as a medicine of great virtue. Nares. Venice treacle. (Old Med.) Same as Theriac, 1. 

TREACLY:  Like, or composed of, treacle. 

TREAD:  The upper horizontal part of a step, on which the foot is placed.  6. (Fort.)  The top of the banquette, on which soldiers stand to fire over the parapet.  7. (Mach.) (a) The part of a wheel that bears upon the road or rail. (b) The part of a rail upon which car wheels bear.  8. (Biol.)  The chalaza of a bird's egg; the treadle.  9. (Far.)  A bruise or abrasion produced on the foot or ankle of a horse that interferes. See Interfere, 3. 

TREADBOARD:  See Tread, n., 5. 

TREADER:  One who treads. Isa. xvi. 10. 

TREADFOWL:  A cock. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TREADLE:  The chalaza of a bird's egg; the tread. 

TREADMILL:  A mill worked by persons treading upon steps on the periphery of a wide wheel having a horizontal axis. It is used principally as a means of prison discipline. Also, a mill worked by horses, dogs, etc., treading an endless belt.  TREAD-SOFTLY Tread"-soft`ly, n. (Bot.)  Spurge nettle. See under Nettle. 

TREADWHEEL:  A wheel turned by persons or animals, by treading, climbing, or pushing with the feet, upon its periphery or face. See Treadmill. 

TREAGUE:  A truce. [Obs.] Spenser. 

TREASONABLE:  Pertaining to treason; consisting of treason; involving the crime of treason, or partaking of its guilt. Most men's heads had been intoxicated with imaginations of plots and treasonable practices. Clarendon.  Syn.  -- Treacherous; traitorous; perfidious; insidious. -- Trea"son*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Trea"son*a*bly, adv. 

TREASONOUS:  Treasonable. Shak. The treasonous book of the Court of King James. Pepys. 

TREASURE:  To collect and deposit, as money or other valuable things, for future use; to lay up; to hoard; usually with up; as, to treasure up gold.  TREASURE-HOUSE Treas"ure-house`, n.  A house or building where treasures and stores are kept. 

TREASURER:  One who has the care of a treasure or treasure or treasury; an officer who receives the public money arising from taxes and duties, or other sources of revenue, takes charge of the same, and disburses it upon orders made by the proper authority; one who has charge of collected funds; as, the treasurer of a society or corporation. Lord high treasurer of England, formerly, the third great officer of the crown. His office is now executed by five persons styled the lords commissioners of the treasury, or treasury lords. 

TREASURERSHIP:  The office of treasurer. 

TREASURESS:  A woman who is a treasurer. [R.]  TREASURE-TROVE Treas"ure-trove`, n. Etym: [Treasure + OF. trové, F. trouvé, p. p. of OF. trover to find, F. trouver. See Trover.] (Common Law)  Any money, bullion, or the like, found in the earth, or otherwise hidden, the owner of which is not known. In England such treasure belongs to the crown; whereas similar treasure found in the sea, or upon the surface of the land, belongs to the finder if no owner appears. 

TREASURY:  Issued stock of an incorporated company held by the company itself. 

TREAT:  To care for medicinally or surgically; to manage in the use of remedies or appliances; as, to treat a disease, a wound, or a patient.  6. To subject to some action; to apply something to; as, to treat a substance with sulphuric acid. Ure.  7. To entreat; to beseech. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. 

TREATABLE:  Manageable; tractable; hence, moderate; not violent. [Obs.] " A treatable disposition, a strong memory." R. Parr. A kind of treatable dissolution. Hooker. The heats or the colds of seasons are less treatable than with us. Sir W. Temple. 

TREATABLY:  In a treatable manner. [Obs.] 

TREATER:  One who treats; one who handles, or discourses on, a subject; also, one who entertains. 

TREATISER:  One who writes a treatise. [Obs.] 

TREATURE:  Treatment. [Obs.] Fabyan. 

TREBLE:  Trebly; triply. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 

TREBLE:  The highest of the four principal parts in music; the part usually sung by boys or women; soprano.  Note: This is sometimes called the first treble, to distinguish it from the second treble, or alto, which is sung by lower female voices. 

TREBLE:  To become threefold. Swift. 

TREBLENESS:  The quality or state of being treble; as, the trebleness of tones. Bacon. 

TREBLET:  Same as Triblet. 

TREBLY:  In a treble manner; with a threefold number or quantity; triply. Swift.  TREBUCHET; TREBUCKET Treb"u*chet, Tre"buck*et, n. Etym: [OF. trebuchet, trebukiet, an engine of war for hurling stones, F. trébuchet a gin, trap, a kind of balance, fr. OF. trebuchier, trebuquier, to stumble, trip, F. trébucher.]  1. A cucking stool; a tumbrel. Cowell.  2. A military engine used in the Middle Ages for throwing stones, etc. It acted by means of a great weight fastened to the short arm of a lever, which, being let fall, raised the end of the long arm with great velocity, hurling stones with much force.  3. A kind of balance for weighing. [Obs.] 

TRECENTIST:  A member of the trecento, or an imitator of its characteristics. 

TRECENTO:  The fourteenth century, when applied to Italian art, literature, etc. It marks the period of Dante, Petrarch, and boccaccio in literature, and of Giotto in painting. 

TRECHOMETER:  An odometer for vehicles. Knight. 

TRECKSCHUYT:  A covered boat for goods and passengers, used on the Dutch and Flemish canals. 

TREDDLE:  The dung of sheep or hares. Holland. 

TREDILLE:  A game at cards for three. 

TREE:  Any perennial woody plant of considerable size (usually over twenty feet high) and growing with a single trunk.  Note: The kind of tree referred to, in any particular case, is often indicated by a modifying word; as forest tree, fruit tree, palm tree, apple tree, pear tree, etc.  2. Something constructed in the form of, or considered as resembling, a tree, consisting of a stem, or stock, and branches; as, a genealogical tree.  3. A piece of timber, or something commonly made of timber; -- used in composition, as in axletree, boottree, chesstree, crosstree, whiffletree, and the like.  4. A cross or gallows; as Tyburn tree. [Jesus] whom they slew and hanged on a tree. Acts x. 39.  5. Wood; timber. [Obs.] Chaucer. In a great house ben not only vessels of gold and of silver but also of tree and of earth. Wyclif (2 Tim. ii. 20).  6. (Chem.)  A mass of crystals, aggregated in arborescent forms, obtained by precipitation of a metal from solution. See Lead tree, under Lead. Tree bear (Zoöl.), the raccoon. [Local, U.S.] -- Tree beetle (Zoöl.) any one of numerous species of beetles which feed on the leaves of trees and shrubs, as the May beetles, the rose beetle, the rose chafer, and the goldsmith beetle.  -- Tree bug (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of hemipterous insects which live upon, and suck the sap of, trees and shrubs. They belong to Arma, Pentatoma, Rhaphigaster, and allied genera.  -- Tree cat (Zool.), the common paradoxure (Paradoxurus musang).  -- Tree clover (Bot.), a tall kind of melilot (Melilotus alba). See Melilot.  -- Tree crab (Zoöl.), the purse crab. See under Purse.  -- Tree creeper (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of arboreal creepers belonging to Certhia, Climacteris, and allied genera. See Creeper, 3.  -- Tree cricket (Zoöl.), a nearly white arboreal American cricket (Ecanthus nivoeus) which is noted for its loud stridulation; -- called also white cricket.  -- Tree crow (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Old World crows belonging to Crypsirhina and allied genera, intermediate between the true crows and the jays. The tail is long, and the bill is curved and without a tooth.  -- Tree dove (Zoöl.) any one of several species of East Indian and Asiatic doves belonging to Macropygia and allied genera. They have long and broad tails, are chiefly arboreal in their habits, and feed mainly on fruit.  -- Tree duck (Zoöl.), any one of several species of ducks belonging to Dendrocygna and allied genera. These ducks have a long and slender neck and a long hind toe. They are arboreal in their habits, and are found in the tropical parts of America, Africa, Asia, and Australia.  -- Tree fern (Bot.), an arborescent fern having a straight trunk, sometimes twenty or twenty-five feet high, or even higher, and bearing a cluster of fronds at the top. Most of the existing species are tropical.  -- Tree fish (Zoöl.), a California market fish (Sebastichthys serriceps).  -- Tree frog. (Zoöl.) (a) Same as Tree toad. (b) Any one of numerous species of Old World frogs belonging to Chiromantis, Rhacophorus, and allied genera of the family Ranidæ. Their toes are furnished with suckers for adhesion. The flying frog (see under Flying) is an example.  -- Tree goose (Zoöl.), the bernicle goose.  -- Tree hopper (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small leaping hemipterous insects which live chiefly on the branches and twigs of trees, and injure them by sucking the sap. Many of them are very odd in shape, the prothorax being often prolonged upward or forward in the form of a spine or crest.  -- Tree jobber (Zoöl.), a woodpecker. [Obs.] -- Tree kangaroo. (Zoöl.) See Kangaroo.  -- Tree lark (Zoöl.), the tree pipit. [Prov. Eng.] -- Tree lizard (Zoöl.), any one of a group of Old World arboreal lizards (Dendrosauria) comprising the chameleons.  -- Tree lobster. (Zoöl.) Same as Tree crab, above.  -- Tree louse (Zoöl.), any aphid; a plant louse.  -- Tree moss. (Bot.) (a) Any moss or lichen growing on trees. (b) Any species of moss in the form of a miniature tree.  -- Tree mouse (Zoöl.), any one of several species of African mice of the subfamily Dendromyinæ. They have long claws and habitually live in trees.  -- Tree nymph, a wood nymph. See Dryad.  -- Tree of a saddle, a saddle frame.  -- Tree of heaven (Bot.), an ornamental tree (Ailantus glandulosus) having long, handsome pinnate leaves, and greenish flowers of a disagreeable odor.  -- Tree of life (Bot.), a tree of the genus Thuja; arbor vitæ.  -- Tree onion (Bot.), a species of garlic (Allium proliferum) which produces bulbs in place of flowers, or among its flowers.  -- Tree oyster (Zoöl.), a small American oyster (Ostrea folium) which adheres to the roots of the mangrove tree; -- called also raccoon oyster.  -- Tree pie (Zoöl.), any species of Asiatic birds of the genus Dendrocitta. The tree pies are allied to the magpie.  -- Tree pigeon (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of longwinged arboreal pigeons native of Asia, Africa, and Australia, and belonging to Megaloprepia, Carpophaga, and allied genera.  -- Tree pipit. (Zoöl.) See under Pipit.  -- Tree porcupine (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Central and South American arboreal porcupines belonging to the genera Chætomys and Sphingurus. They have an elongated and somewhat prehensile tail, only four toes on the hind feet, and a body covered with short spines mixed with bristles. One South American species (S. villosus) is called also couiy; another (S. prehensilis) is called also coendou.  -- Tree rat (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large ratlike West Indian rodents belonging to the genera Capromys and Plagiodon. They are allied to the porcupines.  -- Tree serpent (Zoöl.), a tree snake.  -- Tree shrike (Zoöl.), a bush shrike.  -- Tree snake (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of snakes of the genus Dendrophis. They live chiefly among the branches of trees, and are not venomous.  -- Tree sorrel (Bot.), a kind of sorrel (Rumex Lunaria) which attains the stature of a small tree, and bears greenish flowers. It is found in the Canary Islands and Teneriffe.  -- Tree sparrow (Zoöl.) any one of several species of small arboreal sparrows, especially the American tree sparrow (Spizella monticola), and the common European species (Passer montanus).  -- Tree swallow (Zoöl.), any one of several species of swallows of the genus Hylochelidon which lay their eggs in holes in dead trees. They inhabit Australia and adjacent regions. Called also martin in Australia.  -- Tree swift (Zoöl.), any one of several species of swifts of the genus Dendrochelidon which inhabit the East Indies and Southern Asia.  -- Tree tiger (Zoöl.), a leopard.  -- Tree toad (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of amphibians belonging to Hyla and allied genera of the family Hylidæ. They are related to the common frogs and toads, but have the tips of the toes expanded into suckers by means of which they cling to the bark and leaves of trees. Only one species (Hyla arborea) is found in Europe, but numerous species occur in America and Australia. The common tree toad of the Northern United States (H. versicolor) is noted for the facility with which it changes its colors. Called also tree frog. See also Piping frog, under Piping, and Cricket frog, under Cricket.  -- Tree warbler (Zoöl.), any one of several species of arboreal warblers belonging to Phylloscopus and allied genera.  -- Tree wool (Bot.), a fine fiber obtained from the leaves of pine trees. 

TREEBEARD:  A pendulous branching lichen (Usnea barbata); -- so called from its resemblance to hair.  TREE BURIAL Tree burial.  Disposal of the dead by placing the corpse among the branches of a tree or in a hollow trunk, a practice among many primitive peoples.  TREE CALF Tree calf.  A bright brown polished calfskin binding of  books, stained with a conventional treelike design. 

TREEFUL:  The quantity or number which fills a tree. 

TREELESS:  Destitute of trees. C. Kingsley. 

TREEN:  pl. of Tree. " The shady treen." Fairfax. 

TREENAIL:  A long wooden pin used in fastening the planks of a vessel to the timbers or to each other. [Written also trenail, and trunnel.] 

TREF:  Ceremonially unclean, according to the Jewish law; -- opposed to kosher. 

TREFLE:  A species of time; -- so called from its resemblance in form to a trefoil. 

TREFLE:  Having a three-lobed extremity or extremities, as a cross; also, more rarely, ornamented with trefoils projecting from the edges, as a bearing. 

TREFOIL:  Any plant of the genus Trifolium, which includes the white clover, red clover, etc.; -- less properly, applied also to the nonesuch, or black medic. See Clover, and Medic.  2. (Arch.)  An ornamental foliation consisting of three divisions, or foils.  3. (Her.)  A charge representing the clover leaf. 

TREFOILED:  Same as Tréflé. 

TREGET:  Guile; trickery. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

TREGETOUR:  A juggler who produces illusions by the use of elaborate machinery. [Obs.] Divers appearances Such as these subtle tregetours play. Chaucer. 

TREGETRY:  Trickery; also, a trick. [Obs.] Rom. of R. 

TREHALA:  An amorphous variety of manna obtained from the nests and cocoons of a Syrian coleopterous insect (Larinus maculatus, L. nidificans, etc.) which feeds on the foliage of a variety of thistle. It is used as an article of food, and is called also nest sugar. 

TREHALOSE:  Mycose; -- so called because sometimes obtained from trehala. 

TREILLAGE:  Latticework for supporting vines, etc.; an espalier; a trellis. Spectator. I shall plant the roses against my treillage to-morrow. Walpole. 

TREK:  The act of trekking; a drawing or a traveling; a journey; a migration. [Chiefly South Africa]  To the north a trek was projected, and some years later was nearly carried out, for the occupation of the Mashonaland. James Bryce.  Great Trek, the great emigration of Boers from Cape Colony which began in 1836, and resulted in the founding of the South African Republic and Orange Free State. 

TREKKER:  One that treks. [Written also trecker.] [South Africa]  James Bryce. 

TREKOMETER:  A field range finger used in the British service. 

TRELLIS:  A structure or frame of crossbarred work, or latticework, used for various purposes, as for screens or for supporting plants. 

TRELLISED:  Having a trellis or trellises. Cottages trellised over with exotic plants. Jeffrey. 

TREMANDO:  Trembling; -- used as a direction to perform a passage with a general shaking of the whole chord. 

TREMATODE:  One of the Trematodea. Also used adjectively. 

TREMATODEA:  An extensive order of parasitic worms. They are found in the internal cavities of animals belonging to all classes. Many species are found, also, on the gills and skin of fishes. A few species are parasitic on man, and some, of which the fluke is the most important, are injurious parasites of domestic animals. The trematodes usually have a flattened body covered with a chitinous skin, and are furnished with two or more suckers for adhesion. Most of the species are hermaphrodite. Called also Trematoda, and Trematoidea. See Fluke, Tristoma, and Cercaria. 

TREMATOID:  f or pertaining to the Trematodea. See Illustration in Appendix. 

TREMBLE:  An involuntary shaking or quivering. I am all of a tremble when I think of it. W. Black. 

TREMBLER:  One who trembles. 

TREMBLING:  Shaking; tottering; quivering.  -- Trem"bling*ly, adv. Trembling poplar (Bot.), the aspen. 

TREMELLA:  A genus of gelatinous fungi found in moist grounds. 

TREMENDOUS:  Fitted to excite fear or terror; such as may astonish or terrify by its magnitude, force, or violence; terrible; dreadful; as, a tremendous wind; a tremendous shower; a tremendous shock or fall. A tremendous mischief was a foot. Motley.  Syn.  -- Terrible; dreadful; frightful; terrific; horrible; awful.  -- Tre*men"dous*ly, adv.  -- Tre*men"dous*ness, n. 

TREMEX:  A genus of large hymenopterous insects allied to the sawflies. The female lays her eggs in holes which she bores in the trunks of trees with her large and long ovipositor, and the larva bores in the wood. See Illust. of Horntail.  Note: The pigeon tremex (Tremex columba), a common American species, infests the elm, pear, and other trees. 

TREMIE:  An apparatus for depositing and consolidating concrete under water, essentially a tube of wood or sheet metal with a hooperlike top. It is usually handled by a crane. 

TREMOLANDO:  Same as Tremando. 

TREMOLITE:  A white variety of amphibole, or hornblende, occurring in long, bladelike crystals, and coarsely fibrous masses. 

TREMOR:  A trembling; a shivering or shaking; a quivering or vibratory motion; as, the tremor of a person who is weak, infirm, or old. He fell into an universal tremor of all his joints. Harvey.  TREMULANT; TREMULENT Trem"u*lant, Trem"u*lent, a.  Tremulous; trembling; shaking. [R.] " With tremulent white rod." Carlyle. 

TREN:  A fish spear. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

TRENAIL:  Same as Treenail. 

TRENCH:  To fortify by cutting a ditch, and raising a rampart or breastwork with the earth thrown out of the ditch; to intrench. Pope. No more shall trenching war channel her fields. Shak.  3. To cut furrows or ditches in; as, to trench land for the purpose of draining it.  4. To dig or cultivate very deeply, usually by digging parallel contiguous trenches in succession, filling each from the next; as, to trench a garden for certain crops. 

TRENCH:  An excavation made during a siege, for the purpose of covering the troops as they advance toward the besieged place. The term includes the parallels and the approaches. To open the trenches (Mil.), to begin to dig or to form the lines of approach. Trench cavalier (Fort.), an elevation constructed (by a besieger) of gabions, fascines, earth, and the like, about half way up the glacis, in order to discover and enfilade the covered way.  -- Trench plow, or Trench plough, a kind of plow for opening land to a greater depth than that of common furrows. 

TRENCHAND:  Trenchant. [Obs.] Spenser. 

TRENCHANTLY:  In a trenchant, or sharp, manner; sharply; severely. 

TRENCHMORE:  A kind of lively dance of a rude, boisterous character. Also, music in triple time appropriate to the dance. [Obs.] All the windows in the town dance new trenchmore. Beau. & Fl. 

TRENCHMORE:  To dance the trenchmore. [Obs.] Marston.  TRENCH-PLOW; TRENCH-PLOUGH Trench"-plow", Trench"-plough` v. t.  To plow with deep furrows, for the purpose of loosening the land to a greater depth than usual. 

TREND:  To have a particular direction; to run; to stretch; to tend; as, the shore of the sea trends to the southwest. 

TREND:  To cause to turn; to bend. [R.] Not far beneath i' the valley as she trends Her silver stream. W. Browne. 

TREND:  Inclination in a particular direction; tendency; general direction; as, the trend of a coast. Trend of an anchor. (Naut.) (a) The lower end of the shank of an anchor, being the same distance on the shank from the throat that the arm measures from the throat to the bill. R. H. Dana, Jr. (b) The angle made by the line of a vessel's keel and the direction of the anchor cable, when she is swinging at anchor. 

TREND:  To cleanse, as wool. [Prov. Eng.] 

TREND:  Clean wool. [Prov. Eng.] 

TRENDER:  One whose business is to free wool from its filth. [Prov. Eng.] 

TRENDLE:  A wheel, spindle, or the like; a trundle. [Obs.] The shaft the wheel, the wheel, the trendle turns. Sylvester. 

TRENNEL:  Corrupt form of Treenail. 

TRENTAL:  An office and mass for the dead on the thirtieth day after death or burial. "Their trentals and their shrifts." Spenser.  2. Hence, a dirge; an elegy.  TRENTE ET QUARANTE Trente" et` qua`rante". [F., lit., thirty and forty.]  Same as Rouge et noir, under Rouge.  TRENTON PERIOD Tren"ton pe"ri*od. (Geol.)  A subdivision in the lower Silurian system of America; -- so named from Trenton Falls, in New York. The rocks are mostly limestones, and the period is divided into the Trenton, Utica, and Cincinnati epochs. See the Chart of Geology. 

TREPAN:  A crown-saw or cylindrical saw for perforating the skull, turned, when used, like a bit or gimlet. See Trephine.  2. (Mining)  A kind of broad chisel for sinking shafts. 

TREPAN:  To perforate (the skull) with a trepan, so as to remove a portion of the bone, and thus relieve the brain from pressure or irritation; to perform an operation with the trepan. 

TREPAN:  To insnare; to trap; to trapan. Guards even of a dozen men were silently trepanned from their stations. De Quincey. 

TREPANG:  Any one of several species of large holothurians, some of which are dried and extensively used as food in China; -- called also bêche de mer, sea cucumber, and sea slug. [Written also tripang.]  Note: The edible trepangs are mostly large species of Holothuria, especially H. edulis. They are taken in vast quantities in the East Indies, where they are dried and smoked, and then shipped to China. They are used as an ingredient in certain kinds of soup. 

TREPANIZE:  To trepan. [Obs.] "By trepanizing the skull." Jer. Taylor. 

TREPANNER:  One who trepans. " Pitiful trepanners and impostors." Gauden. 

TREPEGET:  A trebuchet. [Obs.] 

TREPHINE:  An instrument for trepanning, being an improvement on the trepan. It is a circular or cylindrical saw, with a handle like that of a gimlet, and a little sharp perforator called the center pin. 

TREPHINE:  To perforate with a trephine; to trepan. 

TREPID:  Trembling; quaking. Thackeray. 

TREPIDATION:  A libration of the starry sphere in the Ptolemaic system; a motion ascribed to the firmament, to account for certain small changes in the position of the ecliptic and of the stars.  Syn.  -- Tremor; agitation; disturbance; fear. 

TREPIDITY:  Trepidation. [R.] 

TRESAYLE:  A grandfather's grandfather. [Obs.] Writ of tresayle (O. Eng. Law), a writ which lay for a man claiming as heir to his grandfather's grandfather, to recover lands of which he had been deprived by an abatement happening on the ancestor's death. Mozley & W. 

TRESOR:  Treasure. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TRESPASS:  To commit a trespass; esp., to enter unlawfully upon the land of another.  3. To go too far; to put any one to inconvenience by demand or importunity; to intrude; as, to trespass upon the time or patience of another.  4. To commit any offense, or to do any act that injures or annoys another; to violate any rule of rectitude, to the injury of another; hence, in a moral sense, to transgress voluntarily any divine law or command; to violate any known rule of duty; to sin; -- often followed by against. In the time of his distress did he trespass yet more against the Lord. 2 Chron. xxviii. 22. 

TRESPASSER:  One who commits a trespass; as: (a) (Law) One who enters upon another's land, or violates his rights. (b) A transgressor of the moral law; an offender; a sinner. 

TRESSEL:  A trestle. 

TRESSFUL:  Tressy. [R.] Sylvester. 

TRESSURE:  A kind of border similar to the orle, but of only half the breadth of the latter. 

TRESSURED:  Provided or bound with a tressure; arranged in the form of a tressure. The tressured fleur-de-lis he claims To wreathe his shield. Sir W. Scott. 

TRESSY:  Abounding in tresses. J. Baillie.  TRES-TINE Tres"-tine`, n. [Cf. L. tris, tres, three, and E. tyne, tine, a prong.]  The third tine above the base of a stag's antler; the royal antler. 

TRESTLETREE:  One of two strong bars of timber, fixed horizontally on the opposite sides of the masthead, to support the crosstrees and the frame of the top; -- generally used in the plural. Totten. 

TRESTLEWORK:  A viaduct, pier, scaffold, or the like, resting on trestles connected together.  TRES-TYNE Tres"-tyne`, n. Etym: [L. tris, tres, three + E. tyne.] (Zoöl.)  In the antler of a stag, the third tyne above the base. This tyne appears in the third year. In those deer in which the brow tyne does not divide, the tres-tyne is the second tyne above the base. See Illust. under Rucervine, and under Rusine. 

TRET:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Tread, for treadeth. Chaucer. 

TRET:  An allowance to purchasers, for waste or refuse matter, of four pounds on every 104 pounds of suttle weight, or weight after the tare deducted. M'Culloch. 

TRETABLE:  Tractable; moderate. [Obs.] By nature debonaire and tretable. Chaucer. 

TRETHING:  A tax; an impost. [Obs.] Johnson.  TRETIS; TRETYS Tre"tis, Tre"tys, n. Etym: [See Treatise.]  A treatise; also, a treaty. [Obs.] Chaucer.  TRETIS; TRETYS Tre*tis", Tre*tys", a. Etym: [OF. traitis.]  Long and well-proportioned; nicely made; pretty. [Obs.] "Her nose tretys." Chaucer. 

TREVAT:  A weaver's cutting instrument; for severing the loops of the pile threads of velvet. 

TREVET:  A stool or other thing supported by three legs; a trivet.  TREW; TREWE Trew, Trewe, a.  True. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TREWS:  Trowsers; especially, those of the Scotch Highlanders. "He wore the trews, or close trowsers, made of tartan." Sir W. Scott. 

TREWTH:  Truth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TREY:  Three, at cards, dice, or dominoes; a card, die, or domino of three spots or pips. Seven is my chance and thine is cinq and trey. Chaucer.  TRI- Tri-. Etym: [Gr. tri- or L. tri-, sometimes through French; akin to L. tres three, and E. three. See Three.]  1. A prefix meaning three, thrice, threefold; as in tricolored, tridentate.  2. (Chem.)  A prefix (also used adjectively) denoting three proportional or combining part, or the third degree of that to the name of which it is prefixed; as in trisulphide, trioxide, trichloride. 

TRIABLE:  Liable to undergo a judicial examination; properly coming under the cognizance of a court; as, a cause may be triable before one court which is not triable in another. 

TRIABLENESS:  Quality or state of being triable. 

TRIACID:  Capable of neutralizing three molecules of a monobasic acid or the equivalent; having three hydrogen atoms which may be acid radicals; -- said of certain bases; thus, glycerin is a triacid base. 

TRIACLE:  See Treacle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TRIACONTAHEDRAL:  Having thirty sides. 

TRIACONTER:  A vessel with thirty banks of oars, or, as some say, thirty ranks of rowers. 

TRIAD:  An element or radical whose valence is three. Triads of the Welsh bards, poetical histories, in which the facts recorded are grouped by threes, three things or circumstances of a kind being mentioned together.  -- Hindoo triad. See Trimurti. 

TRIADELPHOUS:  Having stamens joined by filaments into three bundles. See Illust. under Adelphous. 

TRIADIC:  Having the characteristics of a triad; as, boron is triadic. 

TRIAKISOCTAHEDRON:  A trigonal trisoctahedron. 

TRIAL:  The formal examination of the matter in issue in a cause before a competent tribunal; the mode of determining a question of fact in a court of law; the examination, in legal form, of the facts in issue in a cause pending before a competent tribunal, for the purpose of determining such issue.  Syn.  -- Test; attempt; endeavor; effort; experiment; proof; essay. See Test, and Attempt.  TRIAL BALANCE Tri"al bal`ance. (Bookkeeping)  The testing of a ledger to discover whether the debits and credits balance, by finding whether the sum of the personal credits increased by the difference between the debit and credit sums in the merchandise and other impersonal accounts equals the sum of personal debits. The equality would not show that the items were all correctly posted. 

TRIALITY:  Three united; state of being three. [R.] H. Wharton. 

TRIALOGUE:  A discourse or colloquy by three persons. 

TRIAMIDE:  An amide containing three amido groups. 

TRIAMINE:  An amine containing three amido groups. 

TRIANDER:  Any one of the Triandria. 

TRIANDRIA:  A Linnæan class of plants having three distinct and equal stamens.  TRIANDRIAN; TRIANDROUS Tri*an"dri*an, Tri*an"drous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. triandre.] (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the Triandria; having three distinct and equal stamens in the same flower. 

TRIANGLE:  A figure bounded by three lines, and containing three angles.  Note: A triangle is either plane, spherical, or curvilinear, according as its sides are straight lines, or arcs of great circles of a sphere, or any curved lines whatever. A plane triangle is designated as scalene, isosceles, or equilateral, according as it has no two sides equal, two sides equal, or all sides equal; and also as right-angled, or oblique-angled, according as it has one right angle, or none; and oblique-angled triangle is either acute-angled, or obtuse-angled, according as all the angles are acute, or one of them obtuse. The terms scalene, isosceles, equilateral, right-angled, acute-angled, and obtuse-angled, are applied to spherical triangles in the same sense as to plane triangles.  2. (Mus.)  An instrument of percussion, usually made of a rod of steel, bent into the form of a triangle, open at one angle, and sounded by being struck with a small metallic rod.  3. A draughtsman's square in the form of a right-angled triangle.  4. (Mus.)  A kind of frame formed of three poles stuck in the ground and united at the top, to which soldiers were bound when undergoing corporal punishment, -- now disused.  5. (Astron.) (a) A small constellation situated between Aries and Andromeda. (b) A small constellation near the South Pole, containing three bright stars. Triangle spider (Zoöl.), a small American spider (Hyptiotes Americanus) of the family Ciniflonidæ, living among the dead branches of evergreen trees. It constructs a triangular web, or net, usually composed of four radii crossed by a double elastic fiber. The spider holds the thread at the apex of the web and stretches it tight, but lets go and springs the net when an insect comes in contact with it. 

TRIANGLED:  Having three angles; triangular. 

TRIANGULAR:  Oblong or elongated, and having three lateral angles; as, a triangular seed, leaf, or stem. Triangular compasses, compasses with three legs for taking off the angular points of a triangle, or any three points at the same time.  -- Triangular crab (Zoöl.), any maioid crab; -- so called because the carapace is usually triangular.  -- Triangular numbers (Math.), the series of numbers formed by the successive sums of the terms of an arithmetical progression, of which the first term and the common difference are 1. See Figurate numbers, under Figurate. 

TRIANGULARES:  The triangular, or maioid, crabs. See Illust. under Maioid, and Illust. of Spider crab, under Spider. 

TRIANGULARITY:  The quality or state of being triangular. Bolingbroke. 

TRIANGULARLY:  In a triangular manner; in the form of a triangle. Dampier. 

TRIANGULATION:  The series or network of triangles into which the face of a country, or any portion of it, is divided in a trigonometrical survey; the operation of measuring the elements necessary to determine the triangles into which the country to be surveyed is supposed to be divided, and thus to fix the positions and distances of the several points connected by them. 

TRIARCHY:  Government by three persons; a triumvirate; also, a country under three rulers. Holland. 

TRIARIAN:  Occupying the third post or rank. [Obs.] Cowley. 

TRIARTICULATE:  Having three joints. 

TRIAS:  The formation situated between the Permian and Lias, and so named by the Germans, because consisting of three series of strata, which are called in German the Bunter sandstein, Muschelkalk, and Keuper. 

TRIASSIC:  Of the age of, or pertaining to, the Trias.  -- n.  The Triassic formation. 

TRIATIC:  A term used in the phrase triatic stay. See under Stay. 

TRIBAL:  Of or pertaining to a tribe or tribes; as, a tribal scepter. Bp. Warburton. 

TRIBALISM:  The state of existing in tribes; also, tribal feeling; tribal prejudice or exclusiveness; tribal peculiarities or characteristics. 

TRIBASIC:  Capable of neutralizing three molecules of a monacid base, or their equivalent; having three hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basic elements on radicals; -- said of certain acids; thus, citric acid is a tribasic acid. 

TRIBBLE:  A frame on which paper is dried. Knight. 

TRIBE:  A number of species or genera having certain structural characteristics in common; as, a tribe of plants; a tribe of animals.  Note: By many recent naturalists, tribe has been used for a group of animals or plants intermediate between order and genus.family is between order and genus.  3. A nation of savages or uncivilized people; a body of rude people united under one leader or government; as, the tribes of the Six Nations; the Seneca tribe.  4. A division, class, or distinct portion of a people, from whatever cause that distinction may have originated; as, the city of Athens was divided into ten tribes.  5. (Stock Breeding)  A family of animals descended from some particular female progenitor, through the female line; as, the Duchess tribe of shorthorns. 

TRIBE:  To distribute into tribes or classes. [R.] Our fowl, fish, and quadruped are well tribed. Abp. Nicolson.  TRIBLET; TRIBOLET Trib"let, Trib"o*let, n.} Etym: [F. triboulet.]  1. A goldsmith's tool used in making rings. Ainsworth.  2. A steel cylinder round which metal is drawn in the process of forming tubes. Tomlinson.  3. (Blacksmithing)  A tapering mandrel. 

TRIBOMETER:  An instrument to ascertain the degree of friction in rubbing surfaces. Brande & C. 

TRIBRACH:  A poetic foot of three short syllables, as, mèlì\'dcs. 

TRIBRACTEATE:  Having three bracts.  TRIBROMOPHENOL; TRIBROMPHENOL Tri*bro`mo*phe"nol, Tri`brom*phe"nol, n. (Chem.)  A colorless crystalline substance prepared by the reaction of carbolic acid with bromine.  TRIBUAL; TRIBULAR Trib"u*al, Trib"u*lar, a.  Of or relating to a tribe; tribal; as, a tribual characteristic; tribular worship. [R.] The tribual lispings of the Ephraimites. Fuller. 

TRIBULATION:  That which occasions distress, trouble, or vexation; severe affliction. When tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended. Matt. xiii. 21. In the world ye shall have tribulation. John. xvi. 33. 

TRIBUNARY:  Of or pertaining to tribunes; as, tribunary powers or authority. 

TRIBUNATE:  The state or office of a tribune; tribuneship. 

TRIBUNE:  An officer or magistrate chosen by the people, to protect them from the oppression of the patricians, or nobles, and to defend their liberties against any attempts that might be made upon them by the senate and consuls.  Note: The tribunes were at first two, but their number was increased ultimately to ten. There were also military tribunes, officers of the army, of whom there were from four to six in each legion. Other officers were also called tribunes; as, tribunes of the treasury, etc.  2. Anciently, a bench or elevated place, from which speeches were delivered; in France, a kind of pulpit in the hall of the legislative assembly, where a member stands while making an address; any place occupied by a public orator. 

TRIBUNESHIP:  The office or power of a tribune.  TRIBUNICIAN; TRIBUNITIAL; TRIBUNITIAN Trib`u*ni"cian, Trib`u*ni"tial, Trib`u*ni*tian, a. Etym: [L. tribunicius, tribunitius: cf. F. tribunitien.]  Of or pertaining to tribunes; befitting a tribune; as, tribunitial power or authority. Dryden. A kind of tribunician veto, forbidding that which is recognized to be wrong. Hare. 

TRIBUNITIOUS:  Tribunician; tribunitial. [Obs.] Bacon. 

TRIBUTARILY:  In a tributary manner. 

TRIBUTARINESS:  The quality or state of being tributary. 

TRIBUTE:  A certain proportion of the ore raised, or of its value, given to the miner as his recompense. Pryce. Tomlinson. Tribute money, money paid as a tribute or tax.  -- Tribute pitch. (Mining) See under Tributer. [Eng.]  Syn.  -- See Subsidy. 

TRIBUTE:  To pay as tribute. [R.] Whitlock (1654). 

TRIBUTER:  One who works for a certain portion of the ore, or its value. [Eng.]  Note: Tributers generally work in gangs, and have a limited portion of a lode set them, called a tribute pitch, beyond which they are not permitted to work, and for which they receive a certain portion of the ore, or so much per pound, as agreed upon, of the value of what they raise. Weale. 

TRICA:  An apothecium in certain lichens, having a spherical surface marked with spiral or concentric ridges and furrows. 

TRICARBALLYLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex tribasic organic acid, C3H5.(CO2H)3 occurring naturally in unripe beet roots, and produced artificially from glycerin as a white crystalline substance. 

TRICARBIMIDE:  See under Cyanuric. 

TRICE:  To haul and tie up by means of a rope. 

TRICE:  A very short time; an instant; a moment; -- now used only in the phrase in a trice. "With a trice." Turbervile. " On a trice." Shak. A man shall make his fortune in a trice. Young. 

TRICENNARIOUS:  Of or pertaining to thirty years; tricennial. [R.] 

TRICENNIAL:  Of or pertaining to thirty years; consisting of thirty years; occurring once in every thirty years. 

TRICENTENARY:  Including, or relating to, the interval of three hundred years; tercentenary.  -- n.  A period of three centuries, or three hundred years, also, the three-hundredth anniversary of any event; a tercentenary. 

TRICEPS:  A muscle having three heads; specif., the great extensor of the forearm, arising by three heads and inserted into the olecranon at the elbow. 

TRICHIASIS:  A disease of the eye, in which the eyelashes, being turned in upon the eyeball, produce constant irritation by the motion of the lids. 

TRICHINA:  A small, slender nematoid worm (Trichina spiralis) which, in the larval state, is parasitic, often in immense numbers, in the voluntary muscles of man, the hog, and many other animals. When insufficiently cooked meat containing the larvæ is swallowed by man, they are liberated and rapidly become adult, pair, and the ovoviviparous females produce in a short time large numbers of young which find their way into the muscles, either directly, or indirectly by means of the blood. Their presence in the muscles and the intestines in large numbers produces trichinosis. 

TRICHINIASIS:  Trichinosis. 

TRICHINIZE:  To render trichinous; to affect with trichinæ; -- chiefly used in the past participle; as, trichinized pork. 

TRICHINOSCOPE:  An apparatus for the detection of trichinæ in the flesh of animals, as of swine. 

TRICHINOSIS:  The disease produced by the presence of trichinæ in the muscles and intestinal track. It is marked by fever, muscular pains, and symptoms resembling those of typhoid fever, and is frequently fatal. 

TRICHINOUS:  Of or pertaining to trichinæ or trichinosis; affected with, or containing, trichinæ; as, trichinous meat. 

TRICHITE:  A kind of crystallite resembling a bunch of hairs, common in obsidian. See Illust. of Crystallite.  2. (Zoöl.)  A delicate, hairlike siliceous spicule, found in certain sponges. Trichite sheaf (Zoöl.), one of the small sheaflike fascicles of slender setæ characteristic of certain sponges. See Illust. under Spicule. 

TRICHIURIFORM:  Like or pertaining to the genus Trichiurus or family Trichiuridæ, comprising the scabbard fishes and hairtails. 

TRICHIUROID:  Of, like, or pertaining to, Trichiurus. 

TRICHIURUS:  A genus of fishes comprising the hairtails. See Hairtail. 

TRICHLORIDE:  A chloride having three atoms of chlorine in the molecule. 

TRICHOBRANCHIA:  The gill of a crustacean in which the branchial filaments are slender and cylindrical, as in the crawfishes. 

TRICHOCYST:  A lasso cell. 

TRICHOGYNE:  The slender, hairlike cell which receives the fertilizing particles, or antherozoids, in red seaweeds.  -- Trich`o*gyn"ic, a. 

TRICHOMANES:  Any fern of the genus Trichomanes. The fronds are very delicate and often translucent, and the sporangia are borne on threadlike receptacles rising from the middle of cup-shaped marginal involucres. Several species are common in conservatories; two are native in the United States. 

TRICHOMATOSE:  Affected with a disease which causes agglutination and matting together; -- said of the hair when affected with plica. See Plica, 1. 

TRICHOME:  A hair on the surface of leaf or stem, or any modification of a hair, as a minute scale, or star, or gland. The sporangia of ferns are believed to be of the nature of trichomes.  -- Tri*chom"a*tous, a. 

TRICHOPHORE:  The special cell in red algæ which produces or bears a trichogyne. See Illust. of Trichogyne.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the saclike organs from which the setæ of annelids arise.  -- Trich`o*phor"ic, a. 

TRICHOPTER:  One of the Trichoptera. 

TRICHOPTERA:  A suborder of Neuroptera usually having the wings covered with minute hairs. It comprises the caddice flies, and is considered by some to be a distinct order. 

TRICHOPTERAN:  One of the Trichoptera. 

TRICHOPTEROUS:  Of, pertaining to, or characterizing, the Trichoptera. 

TRICHORD:  An instrument, as a lyre or harp, having three strings. 

TRICHOSCOLICES:  An extensive group of wormlike animals characterized by being more or less covered with cilia. 

TRICHOTOMOUS:  Divided into three parts, or into threes; three-forked; as, a trichotomous stem. Martyn. 

TRICHOTOMY:  Division into three parts. 

TRICHROIC:  Exhibiting trichroism; pleochroic; pleochroism. 

TRICHROISM:  The quality possessed by some crystals of presenting different colors in three different directions. 

TRICHROMATIC:  Having or existing in three different phases of color; having three distinct color varieties; -- said of certain birds and insects. 

TRICHROMATISM:  The quality, state, or phenomenon of being trichromatic. 

TRICHROMIC:  If, pertaining to, or consisting of, three colors or color sensations. 

TRICHROMIC:  Containing three atoms of chromium. 

TRICIPITAL:  Having three heads, or three origins; as, a tricipital muscle. 

TRICK:  The whole number of cards played in one round, and consisting of as many cards as there are players. On one nice trick depends the general fate. Pope.  7. (Naut.)  A turn; specifically, the spell of a sailor at the helm, -- usually two hours.  8. A toy; a trifle; a plaything. [Obs.] Shak.  Syn.  -- Stratagem; wile; fraud; cheat; juggle; finesse; sleight; deception; imposture; delusion; imposition. 

TRICKER:  One who tricks; a trickster. 

TRICKER:  A trigger. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Boyle. 

TRICKERY:  The art of dressing up; artifice; stratagem; fraud; imposture. 

TRICKINESS:  The quality of being tricky. 

TRICKING:  Given to tricks; tricky. Sir W. Scott. 

TRICKING:  Dress; ornament. Shak. 

TRICKISH:  Given to tricks; artful in making bargains; given to deception and cheating; knavish.  -- Trick"ish*ly, adv.  -- Trick"ish*ness, n. 

TRICKLE:  To flow in a small, gentle stream; to run in drops. His salt tears trickled down as rain. Chaucer. Fast beside there trickled softly down A gentle stream. Spenser. 

TRICKMENT:  Decoration. [Obs.] " No trickments but my tears." Beau. & Fl. 

TRICKSINESS:  The quality or state of being tricksy; trickiness. G. Eliot. 

TRICKSTER:  One who tricks; a deceiver; a tricker; a cheat. 

TRICKSY:  Exhibiting artfulness; trickish. "My tricksy spirit!" Shak. he tricksy policy which in the seventeenth century passed for state wisdom. Coleridge. 

TRICKTRACK:  An old game resembling backgammon. 

TRICKY:  Given to tricks; practicing deception; trickish; knavish. 

TRICLINATE:  Triclinic. 

TRICLINIARY:  Of or pertaining to a triclinium, or to the ancient mode of reclining at table. 

TRICLINIC:  Having, or characterized by, three unequal axes intersecting at oblique angles. See the Note under crystallization. 

TRICOCCOUS:  Having three cocci, or roundish carpels. Gray. 

TRICOLORED:  Having three colors. 

TRICORNIGEROUS:  Having three horns.  TRICORPORAL; TRICORPORATE Tri*cor"po*ral, Tri*cor"po*rate, a. Etym: [L. tricorpor; tri- (see Tri-) + corpus, -oris, body.] (Her.)  Represented with three bodies conjoined to one head, as a lion. 

TRICOSTATE:  Three-ribbed; having three ribs from the base. 

TRICOT:  A fabric of woolen, silk, or cotton knitted, or women to resemble knitted work. 

TRICROTIC:  Of or pertaining to tricrotism; characterized by tricrotism. 

TRICROTISM:  That condition of the arterial pulse in which there is a triple beat. The pulse curve obtained in the sphygmographic tracing characteristic of tricrotism shows two secondary crests in addition to the primary. 

TRICROTOUS:  Tricrotic. 

TRICURVATE:  Curved in three directions; as, a tricurvate spicule (see Illust. of Spicule). 

TRICUSPID:  Of or pertaining to the tricuspid valves; as, tricuspid obstruction. Tricuspid valve (Anat.), the valve, consisting of three triangular membranous flaps, at the opening of the right auricle into the right ventricle in the heart of most mammals; -- sometimes called the tricuspid valves, each flap being regarded as a valve. 

TRICUSPIDATE:  Three-pointed; ending in three points; as, a tricuspidate leaf. 

TRICYCLE:  A three-wheeled velocipede. See Illust. under Velocipede. Cf. Bicycle. 

TRIDACNA:  A genus of very large marine bivalve shells found on the coral reefs of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. One species (T. gigas) often weighs four or five hundred pounds, and is sometimes used for baptismal fonts. Called also paw shell, and fountain shell.  TRIDACTYL; TRIDACTYLE Tri*dac"tyl Tri*dac"tyle, a. Etym: [Gr. Tri-) + tridactyle.] (Biol.)  Having three fingers or toes, or composed of three movable parts attached to a common base. 

TRIDACTYLOUS:  Tridactyl. 

TRIDDLER:  The jacksnipe. [Local, U.S.] 

TRIDE:  Short and ready; fleet; as, a tride pace; -- a term used by sportsmen. Bailey. 

TRIDECANE:  A hydrocarbon, C13H28, of the methane series, which is a probable ingredient both of crude petroleum and of kerosene, and is produced artificially as a light colorless liquid. 

TRIDECATOIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, that acid of the fatty acids heterologous with tridecane. It is a white crystalline substance. 

TRIDECATYLENE:  A hydrocarbon, C13H26, of the ethylene series, corresponding to tridecane, and obtained from Burmah petroleum as a light colorless liquid; -- called also tridecylene, and tridecene. 

TRIDENT:  A kind of scepter or spear with three prongs, -- the common attribute of Neptune.  2. (Rom. Antiq.)  A three-pronged spear or goad, used for urging horses; also, the weapon used by one class of gladiators.  3. A three-pronged fish spear.  4. (Geom.)  A curve of third order, having three infinite branches in the direction and a fourth infinite branch in the opposite direction. Trident bat (Zoöl.), an Asiatic rhinolophid bat (Triænops Persicus), having the nose membrane in the shape of a trident. 

TRIDENT:  Having three teeth or prongs; tridentate.  TRIDENTATE; TRIDENTATED Tri*den"tate, Tri*den"ta*ted, a. Etym: [NL. tridentatus. See Trident.]  Having three teeth; three-toothed. Lee. 

TRIDENTED:  Having three prongs; trident; tridentate; as, a tridented mace. [R.] Quarles. 

TRIDENTIFEROUS:  Bearing a trident. 

TRIDENTINE:  Of or pertaining to Trent, or the general church council held in that city. 

TRIDIAPASON:  A triple octave, or twenty-second. Busby. 

TRIDIMENSIONAL:  Having three dimensions; extended in three different directions. 

TRIDING:  A riding. See Trithing. 

TRIDUAN:  Lasting three lays; also, happening every third day. [R.] Blount. 

TRIDYMITE:  Pure silica, like quartz, but crystallizing in hexagonal tables. It is found in trachyte and similar rocks. 

TRIED:  imp. & p. p. of Try. Also adj.  Proved; tested; faithful; trustworthy; as, a tried friend. 

TRIEDRAL:  See Trihedral. 

TRIENNIAL:  Something which takes place or appears once in three years. 

TRIENNIALLY:  Once in three years. 

TRIENS:  A Roman copper coin, equal to one third of the as. See 3d As, 2. 

TRIER:  A person appointed according to law to try challenges of jurors; a trior. Burrill.  4. That which tries or approves; a test. Shak. 

TRIERARCHY:  The office duty of a trierarch. 

TRIETERICAL:  Kept or occurring once in three years; triennial. [R.] J. Gregory. 

TRIETERICS:  Festival games celebrated once in three years. [R.] May. 

TRIETHYLAMINE:  A tertiary amine analogous to trimethylamine. 

TRIFACIAL:  See Trigeminal. 

TRIFALLOW:  To plow the third time before sowing, as land. Mortimer. 

TRIFARIOUS:  Facing three ways; arranged in three vertical ranks, as the leaves of veratrum. 

TRIFASCIATED:  Having, or surrounded by, three fasciæ, or bands. 

TRIFID:  Cleft to the middle, or slightly beyond the middle, into three parts; three-cleft. 

TRIFISTULARY:  Having three pipes. Sir T. Browne. 

TRIFLE:  To act or talk without seriousness, gravity, weight, or dignity; to act or talk with levity; to indulge in light or trivial amusements. They trifle, and they beat the air about nothing which toucheth us. Hooker. To trifle with, to play the fool with; to treat without respect or seriousness; to mock; as, to trifle with one's feelings, or with sacred things. 

TRIFLER:  One who trifles. Waterland. 

TRIFLING:  Being of small value or importance; trivial; paltry; as, a trifling debt; a trifling affair.  -- Tri"fling*ly, adv.  -- Tri"fling*ness, n.  TRIFLORAL; TRIFLOROUS Tri*flo"ral, Tri*flo"rous, a. Etym: [Pref. tri- + L. flos, floris, flower.] (Bot.)  Three-flowered; having or bearing three flowers; as, a triflorous peduncle. 

TRIFLUCTUATION:  A concurrence of three waves. [Obs.] "A trifluctuation of evils." Sir T. Browne.  TRIFOLIATE; TRIFOLIATED Tri*fo"li*ate, Tri*fo"li*a`ted, a. Etym: [Tri- + foliate. Cf. Trefoil.] (Bot.)  Having three leaves or leaflets, as clover. See Illust. of Shamrock. 

TRIFOLIOLATE:  (Bot.) Having three leaflets. 

TRIFOLIUM:  A genus of leguminous herbs with densely spiked flowers and usually trifoliate leaves; trefoil. There are many species, all of which are called clover. See Clover. 

TRIFOLY:  Sweet trefoil. [Obs.] She was crowned with a chaplet of trifoly. B. Jonson. 

TRIFORIUM:  The gallery or open space between the vaulting and the roof of the aisles of a church, often forming a rich arcade in the interior of the church, above the nave arches and below the clearstory windows. 

TRIFORM:  Having a triple form or character. "This triform antagonism." I. Taylor. Goddess Triform, I own thy triple spell. Lowell. 

TRIFORMITY:  The state of being triform, or of having a threefold shape.  TRIFURCATE; TRIFURCATED Tri*fur"cate, Tri*fur"ca*ted, a. Etym: [L. trifurcus; tri- (see Tri-) + furca fork.]  Having three branches or forks; trichotomous. 

TRIG:  To fill; to stuff; to cram. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

TRIG:  Full; also, trim; neat. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] To sit on a horse square and trig. Brit. Quart. Rev. 

TRIG:  To stop, as a wheel, by placing something under it; to scotch; to skid. 

TRIG:  A stone, block of wood, or anything else, placed under a wheel or barrel to prevent motion; a scotch; a skid. [Eng.] Wright. 

TRIGAMIST:  One who has been married three times; also, one who has three husbands or three wives at the same time. 

TRIGAMOUS:  Having three sorts of flowers in the same head, -- male, female, and hermaphrodite, or perfect, flowers. 

TRIGAMY:  The act of marrying, or the state of being married, three times; also, the offense of having three husbands or three wives at the same time. 

TRIGASTRIC:  Having three bellies; -- said of a muscle. Dunglison. 

TRIGEMINAL:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the fifth pair of cranial nerves, which divide on each side of the head into three main branches distributed to the orbits, jaws, and parts of the mouth; trifacial. 

TRIGEMINOUS:  Born three together; being one of three born at the same birth; also, threefold. E. Phillip 

TRIGENIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7N3O2, obtained, by the action of the vapor of cyanic acid on cold aldehyde, as a white crystalline substance having a slightly acid taste and faint smell; -- called also ethidene- or ethylidene-biuret.  TRIGER PROCESS Tri`ger proc"ess. [After M. Triger, French engineer.] (Engin. & Mining)  A method of sinking through water-bearing ground, in which the shaft is lined with tubbing and provided with an air lock, work being proceeded with under air pressure.  TRIGESIMO-SECUNDO Tri*ges"i*mo-se*cun"do, a. Etym: [L. in trigesimo-secundo in the thirty-second.]  Having thirty-two leaves to a sheet; as, a trigesimo-secundo form, book, leaf, size, etc.  TRIGESIMO-SECUNDO Tri*ges"i*mo-se*cun"do, n.  A book composed of sheets so folded that each one makes thirty- two leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of book; -- usually written 32mo, or 32º, and called thirty-twomo. 

TRIGGER:  A piece, as a lever, which is connected with a catch or detent as a means of releasing it; especially (Firearms), the part of a lock which is moved by the finger to release the cock and discharge the piece. Trigger fish (Zoöl.), a large plectognath fish (Balistes Carolinensis or B. capriscus) common on the southern coast of the United States, and valued as a food fish in some localities. Its rough skin is used for scouring and polishing in the place of sandpaper. Called also leather jacket, and turbot. 

TRIGINTAL:  A trental. 

TRIGLYCERIDE:  A glyceride formed by the replacement of three hydrogen atoms in glycerin by acid radicals. 

TRIGLYPH:  An ornament in the frieze of the Doric order, repeated at equal intervals. Each triglyph consists of a rectangular tablet, slightly projecting, and divided nearly to the top by two parallel and perpendicular gutters, or channels, called glyphs, into three parts, or spaces, called femora. A half channel, or glyph, is also cut upon each of the perpendicular edges of the tablet. See Illust. of Entablature.  TRIGLYPHIC; TRIGLYPHICAL Tri*glyph"ic, Tri*glyph"ic*al, a.  1. Consisting of, or pertaining to, triglyphs.  2. Containing three sets of characters or sculptures. 

TRIGNESS:  The quality or state of being trig; smartness; neatness. Their spars had no man-of-war trigness. Kane. 

TRIGON:  The cutting region of the crown of an upper molar, usually the anterior part. That of a lower molar is the Tri"go*nid. 

TRIGONAL:  Having three angles, or corners; triangular; as, a trigonal stem, one having tree prominent longitudinal angles. 

TRIGONE:  A smooth triangular area on the inner surface of the bladder, limited by the apertures of the ureters and urethra. 

TRIGONIA:  A genus of pearly bivalve shells, numerous extinct species of which are characteristic of the Mesozoic rocks. A few living species exist on the coast of Australia. 

TRIGONOCEROUS:  Having horns with three angles, like those of some species of goats. 

TRIGONODONT:  See Trituberculy.  TRIGONOMETRIC; TRIGONOMETRICAL Trig`o*no*met"ric, Trig`o*no*met"ric*al,Etym: [Cf. F. trigonométrique.]  Of or pertaining to trigonometry; performed by the rules of trigonometry. --Trig`o*no*met"ric*al*ly, adv. Trigonometrical curve, a curve one of whose coördinates is a trigonometric function of the other.  -- Trigonometrical function. See under Function.  -- Trigonometrical lines, lines which are employed in solving the different cases of plane and spherical trigonometry, as sines, tangents, secants, and the like. These lines, or the lengths of them, are trigonometrical functions of the arcs and angles to which they belong.  -- Trigonometrical survey. See under Survey. 

TRIGONOUS:  Same as Trigonal. 

TRIGRAM:  Same as Trigraph. 

TRIGRAMMATIC:  Containing three letters or characters, or three sets of letters or characters. 

TRIGRAMMIC:  Same as Trigrammatic. 

TRIGRAPH:  Three letters united in pronunciation so as to have but one sound, or to form but one syllable, as -ieu in adieu; a triphthong. 

TRIGYN:  Any one of the Trigynia. 

TRIGYNIA:  A Linnæan order of plants having three pistils or styles.  TRIGYNIAN; TRIGYNOUS Tri*gyn"i*an, Trig"y*nous, a. (Bot.)  Having three pistils or styles; of or pertaining to the Trigynia. 

TRIHEDRAL:  Having three sides or faces; thus, a trihedral angle is a solid angle bounded by three plane angles. [Written also triedral.] 

TRIHEDRON:  A figure having three sides. 

TRIHORAL:  Occurring once in every three hours. 

TRIHYBRID:  A hybrid whose parents differ by three pairs of contrasting Mendelian characters. 

TRIJUGATE:  In three pairs; as, a trijugate leaf, or a pinnate leaf with three pairs of leaflets. 

TRIJUGOUS:  Same as Trijugate. 

TRIKOSANE:  A hydrocarbon, C23H48, of the methane series, resembling paraffin; -- so called because it has twenty-three atoms of carbon in the molecule. 

TRILATERAL:  Having three sides; being three-sided; as, a trilateral triangle.  -- Tri*lat"er*al*ly, adv.  -- Tri*lat"er*al*ness, n. 

TRILEMMA:  A syllogism with three conditional propositions, the major premises of which are disjunctively affirmed in the minor. See Dilemma.  2. A state of things in which it is difficult to determine which one of three courses to pursue. 

TRILINEAR:  Of, pertaining to, or included by, three lines; as, trilinear coördinates. 

TRILINGUAL:  Containing, or consisting of, three languages; expressed in three languages. The much-noted Rosetta stone . . . bears upon its surface a trilingual inscription. I. Taylor. 

TRILINGUAR:  See Trilingual. 

TRILITERAL:  Consisting of three letters; trigrammic; as, a triliteral root or word.  -- n.  A triliteral word. 

TRILITERALISM:  Same as Triliterality.  TRILITERALITY; TRILITERALNESS Tri*lit`er*al"i*ty, Tri*lit"er*al*ness, n.  The quality of being triliteral; as, the triliterality of Hebrew roots. W. D. Whitney. 

TRILITH:  Same as Trilithon. Mollett. 

TRILITHIC:  Pertaining to a trilith. 

TRILITHON:  A monument consisting of three stones; especially, such a monument forming a kind of doorway, as among the ancient Celts. 

TRILL:  To flow in a small stream, or in drops rapidly succeeding each other; to trickle. Sir W. Scott. And now and then an ample tear trilled down Her delicate cheek. Shak. Whispered sounds Of waters, trilling from the riven stone. Glover. 

TRILL:  To turn round; to twirl. [Obs.] Gascoigne. Bid him descend and trill another pin. Chaucer. 

TRILL:  To impart the quality of a trill to; to utter as, or with, a trill; as, to trill the r; to trill a note. The sober-suited songstress trills her lay. Thomson. 

TRILL:  To utter trills or a trill; to play or sing in tremulous vibrations of sound; to have a trembling sound; to quaver. To judge of trilling notes and tripping feet. Dryden. 

TRILL:  A shake or quaver of the voice in singing, or of the sound of an instrument, produced by the rapid alternation of two contiguous tones of the scale; as, to give a trill on the high C. See Shake. 

TRILLACHAN:  The oyster catcher. [Prov. Eng.] 

TRILLING:  A compound crystal, consisting of three individuals. 

TRILLION:  According to the French notation, which is used upon the Continent generally and in the United States, the number expressed by a unit with twelve ciphers annexed; a million millions; according to the English notation, the number produced by involving a million to the third power, or the number represented by a unit with eighteen ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration. 

TRILLIUM:  A genus of liliaceous plants; the three-leaved nightshade; -- so called because all the parts of the plant are in threes. 

TRILLO:  A trill or shake. See Trill. 

TRILOBATE:  Having three lobes. 

TRILOBATION:  The state of being trilobate. 

TRILOBED:  Same as Trilobate. 

TRILOBITA:  An extinct order of arthropods comprising the trilobites. 

TRILOBITE:  Any one of numerous species of extinct arthropods belonging to the order Trilobita. Trilobites were very common in the Silurian and Devonian periods, but became extinct at the close of the Paleozoic. So named from the three lobes usually seen on each segment. 

TRILOBITIC:  Of, pertaining to or containing, trilobites; as, trilobitic rocks. 

TRILOCULAR:  Having three cells or cavities; as, a trilocular capsule; a trilocular heart. 

TRILOGY:  A series of three dramas which, although each of them is in one sense complete, have a close mutual relation, and form one historical and poetical picture. Shakespeare's " Henry VI." is an example. On the Greek stage, a drama, or acted story, consisted in reality of three dramas, called together a trilogy, and performed consecutively in the course of one day. Coleridge.  TRILUMINAR; TRILUMINOUS Tri*lu"mi*nar, Tri*lu"mi*nous, a. Etym: [Pref. tri- + L. lumen, luminis, light.]  Having three lights [R.] 

TRIM:  To dress, as timber; to make smooth.  5. (Naut.) (a) To adjust, as a ship, by arranging the cargo, or disposing the weight of persons or goods, so equally on each side of the center and at each end, that she shall sit well on the water and sail well; as, to trim a ship, or a boat. (b) To arrange in due order for sailing; as, to trim the sails.  6. To rebuke; to reprove; also, to beat. [Colloq.] To trim in (Carp.), to fit, as a piece of timber, into other work.  -- To trim up, to dress; to put in order. I found her trimming up the diadem On her dead mistress. Shak. 

TRIM:  To balance; to fluctuate between parties, so as to appear to favor each. 

TRIM:  The lighter woodwork in the interior of a building; especially, that used around openings, generally in the form of a molded architrave, to protect the plastering at those points. In ballast trim (Naut.), having only ballast on board. R. H. Dana, Jr.  -- Trim of the masts (Naut.), their position in regard to the ship and to each other, as near or distant, far forward or much aft, erect or raking.  -- Trim of sails (Naut.), that adjustment, with reference to the wind, witch is best adapted to impel the ship forward. 

TRIM:  Fitly adjusted; being in good order., or made ready for service or use; firm; compact; snug; neat; fair; as, the ship is trim, or trim built; everything about the man is trim; a person is trim when his body is well shaped and firm; his dress is trim when it fits closely to his body, and appears tight and snug; a man or a soldier is trim when he stands erect. With comely carriage of her countenance trim. Spenser. So deemed I till I viewed their trim array Of boats last night. Trench. 

TRIMACULATED:  Marked with three spots, or maculæ. 

TRIMELLIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain tribasic acid (called also trimellitic acid) metameric with trimesitic acid. 

TRIMEMBRAL:  Having, or consisting of, three members. 

TRIMERA:  A division of Coleoptera including those which have but three joints in the tarsi. 

TRIMERAN:  One of the Trimera. Also used adjectively. 

TRIMEROUS:  Having the parts in threes. 

TRIMESITIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a tribasic acid, C6H3.(CO2)3, of the aromatic series, obtained, by the oxidation of mesitylene, as a white crystalline substance. [Written also trimesic.] 

TRIMESTER:  A term or period of three months. 

TRIMESTRAL:  Trimestrial. Southey. 

TRIMESTRIAL:  Of or pertaining to a trimester, or period of three months; occurring once in every three months; quarterly. 

TRIMETER:  Consisting of three poetical measures.  -- n.  A poetical division of verse, consisting of three measures. Lowth. 

TRIMETHYL:  (Chem.) A prefix or combining form (also used adjectively) indicating the presence of three methyl groups. 

TRIMETHYLAMINE:  A colorless volatile alkaline liquid, N.(CH3)3, obtained from herring brine, beet roots, etc., with a characteristic herringlike odor. It is regarded as a substituted ammonia containing three methyl groups. 

TRIMETHYLENE:  A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H6, isomeric with propylene and obtained from it indirectly. It is the base of a series of compounds analogous to the aromatic hydrocarbons. 

TRIMETRIC:  Same as Orthorhombic. 

TRIMETRICAL:  Same as Trimeter. 

TRIMLY:  In a trim manner; nicely. 

TRIMMER:  A beam, into which are framed the ends of headers in floor framing, as when a hole is to be left for stairs, or to avoid bringing joists near chimneys, and the like. See Illust. of Header. 

TRIMMING:  a. from Trim, v. The Whigs are, essentially, an inefficient, trimming, halfway sort of a party. Jeffrey. Trimming joist (Arch.), a joist into which timber trimmers are framed; a header. See Header. Knight. 

TRIMMINGLY:  In a trimming manner. 

TRIMNESS:  The quality or state of being trim; orderliness; compactness; snugness; neatness. 

TRIMORPH:  A substance which crystallizes in three distinct forms, or which has three distinct physical states; also, any one of these distinct forms. See Trimorphism, 1.  TRIMORPHIC; TRIMORPHOUS Tri*mor"phic, Tri*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Gr. Tri-) +  Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, trimorphism; -- contrasted with monomorphic, dimorphic, and polymorphic. 

TRIMORPHISM:  The property of crystallizing in three forms fundamentally distinct, as is the case with titanium dioxide, which crystallizes in the forms of rutile, octahedrite, and brookite. See Pleomorphism.  2. (Biol.)  The coëxistence among individuals of the same species of three distinct forms, not connected, as a rule, by intermediate gradations; the condition among individuals of the same species of having three different shapes or proportions of corresponding parts; -- contrasted with polymorphism, and dimorphism. Heterogonous trimporphism (Bot.), that condition in which flowers of plants of the same species have three different lengths of stamens, short, medium, and long, the blossoms of one individual plant having short and medium stamens and a long style, those of another having short and long stamens and a style of medium length, and those of a third having medium and long stamens and a short style, the style of each blossom thus being of a length not represented by its stamens. 

TRIMURTI:  The triad, or trinity, of Hindoo gods, consisting of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, and Siva, the Destroyer. [Spelled also Trimurtti.] 

TRIMYARIAN:  A lamellibranch which has three muscular scars on each valve. 

TRINAL:  Threefold. "Trinal unity." Milton. In their trinal triplicities on high. Spenser. 

TRINDLE:  See Trundle. 

TRINE:  Threefold; triple; as, trine dimensions, or length, breadth, and thickness. 

TRINE:  The aspect of planets distant from each other 120 degrees, or one third of the zodiac; trigon. In sextile, square, and trine. Milton.  2. A triad; trinity. [R.] A single trine of brazen tortoises. Mrs. Browning. Eternal One, Almighty Trine! Keble. 

TRINE:  To put in the aspect of a trine. [R.] By fortune he [Saturn] was now to Venus trined. Dryden. 

TRINERVATE:  Having three ribs or nerves extending unbranched from the base to the apex; -- said of a leaf. Gray.  TRINERVE; TRINERVED Tri"nerve`, Tri"nerved`, a. Etym: [Pref. tri- + nerve.] (Bot.)  Same as Trinervate. 

TRINGA:  A genus of limicoline birds including many species of sandpipers. See Dunlin, Knot, and Sandpiper. 

TRINGLE:  A curtain rod for a bedstead. 

TRINGOID:  Of or pertaining to Tringa, or the Sandpiper family. 

TRINITARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Trinity, the doctrine of the Trinity, or believers in that doctrine. 

TRINITARIAN:  One of a monastic order founded in Rome in 1198 by St. John of Matha, and an old French hermit, Felix of Valois, for the purpose of redeeming Christian captives from the Mohammedans. 

TRINITARIANISM:  The doctrine of the Trinity; the doctrine that there are three distinct persons in the Godhead. 

TRINITROCELLULOSE:  Gun cotton; -- so called because regarded as containing three nitro groups. 

TRINITROPHENOL:  Picric acid. 

TRINITY:  The union of three persons (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost) in one Godhead, so that all the three are one God as to substance, but three persons as to individuality.  2. Any union of three in one; three units treated as one; a triad, as the Hindoo trinity, or Trimurti.  3. Any symbol of the Trinity employed in Christian art, especially the triangle. Trinity House, an institution in London for promoting commerce and navigation, by licensing pilots, ordering and erecting beacons, and the like.  -- Trinity Sunday, the Sunday next after Whitsunday; -- so called from the feast held on that day in honor of the Holy Trinity.  -- Trinity term. (Law) See the Note under Term, n., 5. 

TRINIUNITY:  Triunity; trinity. [Obs.] As for terms of trinity, triniunity, . . . and the like, they reject them as scholastic notions. Milton. 

TRINK:  A kind of fishing net. [Obs.] Crabb. 

TRINKET:  A three-cornered sail formerly carried on a ship's foremast, probably on a lateen yard. Sailing always with the sheets of mainsail and trinket warily in our hands. Hakluyt. 

TRINKET:  To give trinkets; hence, to court favor; to intrigue. [Obs.] South. 

TRINKETER:  One who trinkets. [Obs.] 

TRINKETRY:  Ornaments of dress; trinkets, collectively. No trinketry on front, or neck, or breast. Southey. 

TRINKLE:  To act secretly, or in an underhand way; to tamper. [Obs.] Wright. 

TRINOCTIAL:  Lasting during three nights; comprising three nights. 

TRINODAL:  Having three knots or nodes; having three points from which a leaf may shoot; as, a trinodal stem.  2. (Geom.)  Having three nodal points. 

TRINOMIAL:  A quantity consisting of three terms, connected by the sign + or -; as, x + y + z, or ax + 2b - c2. 

TRINOMIAL:  Consisting of three terms; of or pertaining to trinomials; as, a trinomial root. 

TRINOMINAL:  Trinomial. 

TRINUCLEUS:  A genus of Lower Silurian trilobites in which the glabella and cheeks form three rounded elevations on the head. 

TRIO:  Of the value of three oboli; hence, mean; worthless. [Obs.] It may pass current . . . for a triobolar ballad. Cheyne. 

TRIOCTILE:  An aspect of two planets with regard to the earth when they are three octants, or three eighths of a circle, that is, 135 degrees, distant from each other. Hutton. 

TRIOECIA:  The third order of the Linnæan class Polygamia. 

TRIOECIOUS:  Having three sorts of flowers on the same or on different plants, some of the flowers being staminate, others pistillate, and others both staminate and pistillate; belonging to the order Trioecia. 

TRIOLE:  Same as Triplet. 

TRIOLEIN:  See Olein. 

TRIOLET:  A short poem or stanza of eight lines, in which the first line is repeated as the fourth and again as the seventh line, the second being, repeated as the eighth. Brande & C. 

TRIONAL:  A compound similar to sulphonal, used as a hypnotic in medicine. 

TRIONYCHOIDEA:  A division of chelonians which comprises Trionyx and allied genera; -- called also Trionychoides, and Trionychina. 

TRIONYX:  A genus of fresh-water or river turtles which have the shell imperfectly developed and covered with a soft leathery skin. They are noted for their agility and rapacity. Called also soft tortoise, soft-shell tortoise, and mud turtle.  Note: The common American species (Trionyx, or Aspidonectus, ferox) becomes over a foot in length and is very voracious. Similar species are found in Asia and Africa. 

TRIOR:  Same as Trier, 2 and 3. 

TRIOXIDE:  An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen; as, sulphur trioxide, SO3; -- formerly called tritoxide. 

TRIP:  To release, let fall, or see free, as a weight or compressed spring, as by removing a latch or detent. 

TRIP:  A single board, or tack, in plying, or beating, to windward.  7. A herd or flock, as of sheep, goats, etc. [Prov. Eng. & Scott.]  8. A troop of men; a host. [Obs.] Robert of Brunne.  9. (Zoöl.)  A flock of widgeons. 

TRIPALMITATE:  A palmitate derived from three molecules of palmitic acid. 

TRIPALMITIN:  See Palmitin. 

TRIPANG:  See Trepang. 

TRIPARTED:  Parted into three piece; having three parts or pieces; -- said of the field or of a bearing; as, a cross triparted.  2. (Bot.)  Divided nearly to the base into three segments or lobes. 

TRIPARTIBLE:  Divisible into three parts. 

TRIPARTIENT:  Dividing into three parts; -- said of a number which exactly divides another into three parts. 

TRIPARTITELY:  In a tripartite manner. 

TRIPARTITION:  A division by threes, or into three parts; the taking of a third part of any number or quantity. 

TRIPASCHAL:  Including three passovers. 

TRIPEDAL:  Having three feet.  TRIPE-DE-ROCHE Tripe`-de-roche", n. Etym: [F.] (Bot.)  Same as Rock tripe, under Rock. 

TRIPEL:  Same as Tripoli. 

TRIPEMAN:  A man who prepares or sells tripe. 

TRIPENNATE:  Same as Tripinnate. 

TRIPERSONAL:  Consisting of three persons. Milton. 

TRIPERSONALIST:  A Trinitarian. 

TRIPERSONALITY:  The state of existing as three persons in one Godhead; trinity. 

TRIPERY:  A place where tripe is prepared or sold. London Quart. Rev. 

TRIPESTONE:  A variety of anhydrite composed of contorted plates fancied to resemble pieces of tripe. 

TRIPETALOID:  Having the form or appearance of three petals; appearing as if furnished with three petals. 

TRIPETALOUS:  Having three petals, or flower leaves; three-petaled.  TRIP HAMMER Trip" ham`mer.  A tilt hammer. 

TRIPHANE:  Spodumene. 

TRIPHTHONG:  A combination of three vowel sounds in a single syllable, forming a simple or compound sound; also, a union of three vowel characters, representing together a single sound; a trigraph; as, eye, -ieu in adieu, -eau in beau, are examples of triphthongs. 

TRIPHTHONGAL:  Of or pertaining to a triphthong; consisting of three vowel sounds pronounced together in a single syllable. 

TRIPHYLINE:  Triphylite. 

TRIPHYLITE:  A mineral of a grayish-green or bluish color, consisting of the phosphates of iron, manganese, and lithia.  Note: A salmon-colored or clove-brown variety containing but little iron is known as lithiophilite. 

TRIPHYLLOUS:  Having three leaves; three-leaved. 

TRIPINNATE:  Having bipinnate leaflets arranged on each side of a rhachis. 

TRIPINNATIFID:  Thrice pinnately cleft; -- said of a pinnatifid leaf when its segments are pinnatifid, and the subdivisions of these also are pinnatifid. 

TRIPITAKA:  The three divisions, or "baskets" (pitakas), of buddhist scriptures, -- the Vinayapitaka [Skr. Vinayapitsaka] , or Basket of Discipline; Suttapitaka [Pali] , or Basket of Discourses; and Abhidhammapitaka [Pali] , or Basket of Metaphysics. 

TRIPLASIAN:  Three-fold; triple; treble. [Obs.] Cudworth. 

TRIPLE:  To make threefold, or thrice as much or as many; to treble; as, to triple the tax on coffee.  TRIPLE-CROWNED Tri"ple-crowned`, a.  Having three crowns; wearing the triple crown, as the pope.  TRIPLE-HEADED Tri"ple-head`ed, a.  Having three heads; three-headed; as, the triple-headed dog Cerberus. 

TRIPLET:  Three verses rhyming together.  3. (Mus.)  A group of three notes sung or played in the tree of two.  4. pl.  Three children or offspring born at one birth.  TRIPLE-TAIL Tri"ple-tail`, n. (Zoöl.)  An edible fish (Lobotes Surinamensis) found in the warmer parts of all the oceans, and common on the southern and middle coasts of the United States. When living it is silvery gray, and becomes brown or blackish when dead. Its dorsal and anal fins are long, and extend back on each side of the tail. It has large silvery scales which are used in the manufacture of fancy work. Called also, locally, black perch, grouper, and flasher. 

TRIPLEX:  Havingthree principal operative parts or motions, so as to produce a three-fold effect. 

TRIPLICATE:  Made thrice as much; threefold; tripled. Triplicate ratio (Math.), the ratio of the cubes of two quantities; thus, the triplicate ratio of a to b is a3: b3. 

TRIPLICATE:  A third thing corresponding to two others of the same kind.  TRIPLICATE-TERNATE Trip"li*cate-ter`nate, a. (Bot.)  Triternate. 

TRIPLICATION:  Same as Surrejoinder. 

TRIPLICITY:  The quality or state of being triple, or threefold; trebleness. In their trinal triplicities on high. Spenser. 

TRIPLICOSTATE:  Three-ribbed. 

TRIPLITE:  A mineral of a dark brown color, generally with a fibrous, massive structure. It is a fluophosphate of iron and manganese. 

TRIPLOBLASTIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, that condition of the ovum in which there are three primary germinal layers, or in which the blastoderm splits into three layers. 

TRIPLOIDITE:  A manganese phosphate near triplite, but containing hydroxyl instead of fluorine. 

TRIPLY:  In a triple manner. 

TRIPMADAM:  Same as Prickmadam. 

TRIPODIAN:  An ancient stringed instrument; -- so called because, in form, it resembled the Delphic tripod. 

TRIPODY:  Three metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure. 

TRIPOLI:  An earthy substance originally brought from Tripoli, used in polishing stones and metals. It consists almost wholly of the siliceous shells of diatoms. 

TRIPOLITAN:  Of or pertaining to Tripoli or its inhabitants; Tripoline.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Tripoli. 

TRIPPANT:  See Tripping, a., 2. 

TRIPPET:  A cam, wiper, or projecting piece which strikes another piece repeatedly. 

TRIPPING:  Having the right forefoot lifted, the others remaining on the ground, as if he were trotting; trippant; -- said of an animal, as a hart, buck, and the like, used as a bearing. 

TRIPPING:  The loosing of an anchor from the ground by means of its cable or buoy rope. Tripping line (Naut.), a small rope attached to the topgallant or royal yard, used to trip the yard, and in lowering it to the deck; also, a line used in letting go the anchor. Luce. 

TRIPPINGLY:  In a tripping manner; with a light, nimble, quick step; with agility; nimbly. Sing, and dance it trippingly. Shak. Speak the speech . . . trippingly on the tongue. Shak. 

TRIPTOTE:  A noun having three cases only. 

TRIPTYCH:  Anything in three parts or leaves. Specifically: -- (a) A writing tablet in three parts, two of which fold over on the middle part. (b) A picture or altarpiece in three compartments. 

TRIPUDIARY:  Of or pertaining to dancing; performed by dancing. [R.] " Tripudiary augurations." Sir T. Browne. 

TRIPUDIATE:  To dance. [R.] Cockeram. 

TRIPUDIATION:  The act of dancing. [R.] Bacon. Carlyle. 

TRIQUADRANTAL:  Having three quadrants; thus, a triquadrantal triangle is one whose three sides are quadrants, and whose three angles are consequently right angles. 

TRIQUETRAL:  Triquetrous. 

TRIQUETROUS:  Three sided, the sides being plane or concave; having three salient angles or edges; trigonal. 

TRIQUETRUM:  One of the bones of the carpus; the cuneiform. See Cuneiform (b).  TRIRADIATE; TRIRADIATED Tri*ra"di*ate, Tri*ra"di*a`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. tri- + radiate.]  Having three rays. 

TRIRECTANGULAR:  Having three right angles. See Triquadrantal. 

TRIREME:  An ancient galley or vessel with tree banks, or tiers, of oars. 

TRIRHOMBOIDAL:  Having three rhombic faces or sides.  TRISACCHARIDE; TRISACCHARID Tri*sac"cha*ride, n. Also -rid. (Chem.)  A complex sugar, as raffinose, yielding by hydrolysis three simple sugar molecules. 

TRISACRAMENTARIAN:  One who recognizes three sacraments, and no more; -- namely, baptism, the Lord's Supper, and penance. See Sacrament. 

TRISAGION:  An ancient anthem, -- usually known by its Latin name tersanctus.See Tersanctus. 

TRISECT:  To cut or divide into three equal parts. 

TRISECTED:  Divided into three parts or segments by incisions extending to the midrib or to the base; -- said of leaves. 

TRISECTION:  The division of a thing into three parts, Specifically: (Geom.) the division of an angle into three equal parts. 

TRISERALOUS:  Having three sepals, or calyx leaves.  TRISERIAL; TRISERIATE Tri*se"ri*al, Tri*se"ri*ate, a Etym: [Pref. tri- + serial, seriate.] (Bot.)  Arranged in three vertical or spiral rows.  TRISKELION; TRISKELE Tris*kel"i*on, or Tris"kele, n. [Gr.  three-legged. See Tri-; Isosceles.]  A figure composed of three branches, usually curved, radiating from a center, as the figure composed of three human legs, with bent knees, which has long been used as a badge or symbol of Sicily and of the Isle of Man. 

TRISMUS:  The lockjaw. 

TRISNITRATE:  A nitrate formed from three molecules of nitric acid; also, less properly, applied to certain basic nitrates; as, trisnitrate of bismuth. 

TRISOCTAHEDRON:  A solid of the isometric system bounded by twenty-four equal faces, three corresponding to each face of an octahedron. Tetragonal trisoctahedron, a trisoctahedron each face of which is a quadrilateral; called also trapezohedron and icositetrahedron.  -- Trigonal trisoctahedron, a trisoctahedron each face of which is an isosceles triangle.  TRISPAST; TRISPASTON Tri"spast, Tri*spas"ton, n. Etym: [NL. trispaston, fr. Gr. Tri-) + (Mech.)  A machine with three pulleys which act together for raising great weights. Brande & C. 

TRISPERMOUS:  Containing three seeds; three-seeded; as, a trispermous capsule. 

TRISPLANCHNIC:  Of or pertaining to the three great splanchnic cavities, namely, that of the head, the chest, and the abdomen; -- applied to the sympathetic nervous system. 

TRIST:  To trust. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TRIST:  Sad; sorrowful; gloomy. [Obs.] Fairfax. 

TRISTE:  A cattle fair. [Prov. Eng.] 

TRISTEARATE:  Tristearin. 

TRISTEARIN:  See Stearin. 

TRISTFUL:  Sad; sorrowful; gloomy. Shak. Eyes so tristful, eyes so tristful, Heart so full of care and cumber. Longfellow. 

TRISTFULLY:  In a tristful manner; sadly. 

TRISTICHOUS:  Arranged in three vertical rows.  TRISTIGMATIC; TRISTIGMATOSE Tri`stig*mat"ic, Tri*stig"ma*tose`, a. Etym: [Pref. tri- + stigma.] (Bot.)  Having, or consisting of, three stigmas. Gray. 

TRISTITIATE:  To make sad. [Obs.] Feltham. 

TRISTOMA:  Any one of numerous species of trematode worms belonging to Tristoma and allied genera having a large posterior sucker and two small anterior ones. They usually have broad, thin, and disklike bodies, and are parasite on the gills and skin of fishes. 

TRISTY:  See Trist, a. [Obs.] Ashmole. 

TRISULC:  Something having three forks or prongs, as a trident. [Obs.] "Jupiter's trisulc." Sir T. Browne. 

TRISULCATE:  Having three furrows, forks, or prongs; having three grooves or sulci; three-grooved. 

TRISULPHIDE:  A sulphide containing three atoms of sulphur.  TRISYLLABIC; TRISYLLABICAL Tris`yl*lab"ic, Tris`yl*lab"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. trisyllabus, Gr. Tri- ) + trissyllabique.]  Of or pertaining to a trisyllable; consisting of three syllables; as, "syllable" is a trisyllabic word.  -- Tris`yllab"ic*al*ly, adv. 

TRISYLLABLE:  A word consisting of three syllables only; as, a-ven-ger. 

TRITE:  Worn out; common; used until so common as to have lost novelty and interest; hackneyed; stale; as, a trite remark; a trite subject.  -- Trite"ly, adv.  -- Trite"ness, n. 

TRITERNATE:  Three times ternate; -- applied to a leaf whose petiole separates into three branches, each of which divides into three parts which each bear three leafiets. 

TRITHEISM:  The opinion or doctrine that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are three distinct Gods. 

TRITHEIST:  One who believes in tritheism.  TRITHEISTIC; TRITHEISTICAL Tri`the*is"tic, Tri`the*is"tic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to tritheism. Bolingbroke. 

TRITHEITE:  A tritheist. [Obs.] E. Phillips. 

TRITHING:  One of three ancient divisions of a county in England; -- now called riding. [Written also riding.] Blackstone. 

TRITHIONATE:  A salt of trithionic acid. 

TRITHIONIC:  Of or pertaining to, or designating, a certain thionic acid, H2S3O6 which is obtained as a colorless, odorless liquid. 

TRITICAL:  Trite. [Obs.] T. Warton.  -- Trit"ic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Trit"ic*al*ness, n. [Obs.] 

TRITICIN:  A carbohydrate isomeric with dextrin, obtained from quitch grass (Agropyrum, formerly Triticum, repens) as a white amorphous substance. 

TRITICUM:  A genus of grasses including the various species of wheat. 

TRITON:  A fabled sea demigod, the son of Neptune and Amphitrite, and the trumpeter of Neptune. He is represented by poets and painters as having the upper part of his body like that of a man, and the lower part like that of a fish. He often has a trumpet made of a shell. Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea, Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn. Wordsworth.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of many species of marine gastropods belonging to Triton and allied genera, having a stout spiral shell, often handsomely colored and ornamented with prominent varices. Some of the species are among the largest of all gastropods. Called also trumpet shell, and sea trumpet.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of aquatic salamanders. The common European species are Hemisalamandra cristata, Molge palmata, and M. alpestris, a red-bellied species common in Switzerland. The most common species the United States is Diemyctylus viridescens. See Illust. under Salamander. 

TRITONE:  A superfluous or augmented fourth. [R.] 

TRITORIUM:  Same as Triturium. 

TRITOVUM:  An embryonic insect which has twice cast its skin previous to hatching from the egg. 

TRITOZOOID:  A zooid of the third generation in asexual reproduction. 

TRITUBERCULY:  A theory of the development of mammalian molar teeth. The primitive stage is that of simple cones, as in reptiles. The simple cone then developed a smaller cone in front and another behind. Next, a cingulum was developed, and the three cones became arranged in a triangle, the two smaller cusps having moved to the outer side in upper and to the inner in lower molars. This primitive triangle is called the trigon or trigonid and this stage the tritubercular or trigonodont. The trigon being a cutting apparatus, an extension of the posterior part of the crown was developed in lower molars for crushing, and a smaller corresponding part appeared in upper molars. Another large cone then arose, usually from the cingulum. In more complex forms, smaller intermediate cusps appeared. 

TRITURABLE:  Capable of being triturated. Sir T. Browne. 

TRITURATION:  The act of triturating, or reducing to a fine or impalpable powder by grinding, rubbing, bruising, etc. Paley. 

TRITURE:  A rubbing or grinding; trituration. [Obs.] Cheyne. 

TRITURIUM:  A vessel for separating liquids of different densities. [Written also tritorium.] 

TRITYL:  Propyl. [R.] 

TRITYLENE:  Propylene. [R.] 

TRIUMPH:  A magnificent and imposing ceremonial performed in honor of a general who had gained a decisive victory over a foreign enemy.  Note: The general was allowed to enter the city crowned with a wreath of laurel, bearing a scepter in one hand, and a branch of laurel in the other, riding in a circular chariot, of a peculiar form, drawn by four horses. He was preceded by the senate and magistrates, musicians, the spoils, the captives in fetters, etc., and followed by his army on foot in marching order. The procession advanced in this manner to the Capitoline Hill, where sacrifices were offered, and victorious commander entertained with a public feast.  2. Hence, any triumphal procession; a pompous exhibition; a stately show or pageant. [Obs.] Our daughter, In honor of whose birth these triumphs are, Sits here, like beauty's child. Shak.  3. A state of joy or exultation for success. Great triumph and rejoicing was in heaven. Milton. Hercules from Spain Arrived in triumph, from Geryon slain. Dryden.  4. Success causing exultation; victory; conquest; as, the triumph of knowledge.  5. A trump card; also, an old game at cards. [Obs.] 

TRIUMPH:  To obtain a victory over; to prevail over; to conquer. Also, to cause to triumph. [Obs.] Two and thirty legions that awe All nations of the triumphed word. Massinger. 

TRIUMPHAL:  Of or pertaining to triumph; used in a triumph; indicating, or in honor of, a triumph or victory; as, a triumphal crown; a triumphal arch. Messiah his triumphal chariot turned. Milton. 

TRIUMPHAL:  A token of victory. [Obs.] Joyless triumphals of his hoped success. Milton. 

TRIUMPHANTLY:  In a triumphant manner. 

TRIUMPHER:  One who was honored with a triumph; a victor.  2. One who triumphs or rejoices for victory. 

TRIUMPHING:  Having or celebrating a triumph; victorious; triumphant.  -- Tri"umph*ing*ly, adv. 

TRIUMVIR:  One of tree men united in public office or authority.  Note: In later times the triumvirs of Rome were three men who jointly exercised sovereign power. Julius Cæsar, Crassus, and Pompey were the first triumvirs; Octavianus (Augustus), Antony, and Lepidus were the second and last. 

TRIUMVIRY:  A triumvirate. [Obs.] Shak. 

TRIUNE:  Being three in one; -- an epithet used to express the unity of a trinity of persons in the Godhead. 

TRIUNGULUS:  The active young larva of any oil beetle. It has feet armed with three claws, and is parasitic on bees. See Illust. of Oil beetle, under Oil. 

TRIUNITY:  The quality or state of being triune; trinity. Dr. H. More. 

TRIVALENCE:  The quality or state of being trivalent. 

TRIVALENT:  Having a valence of three; capable of being combined with, substituted for, or compared with, three atoms of hydrogen; -- said of triad atoms or radicals; thus, nitrogen is trivalent in ammonia. 

TRIVALVE:  Anything having three valves, especially a shell. 

TRIVALVULAR:  Having three valves; three-valved. 

TRIVANT:  A truant. [Obs.] Burton. 

TRIVERBIAL:  Pertaining to, or designating, certain days allowed to the pretor for hearing causes, when be might speak the three characteristic words of his office, do, dico, addico. They were called dies fasti. 

TRIVIAL:  One of the three liberal arts forming the trivium. [Obs.] Skelton. Wood. 

TRIVIALISM:  A trivial matter or method; a triviality. Carlyle. 

TRIVIALLY:  In a trivial manner. 

TRIVIALNESS:  Quality or state of being trivial. 

TRIVIUM:  The three anterior ambulacra of echinoderms, collectively. 

TRIWEEKLY:  Occurring or appearing three times a week; thriceweekly; as, a triweekly newspaper.  -- adv.  Three times a week.  -- n.  A triweekly publication.  Note: This is a convenient word, but is not legitimately formed. It should mean occurring once in three weeks, as triennial means once in three years. Cf. Biweekly. 

TROAD:  See Trode. [Obs.] 

TROAT:  To cry, as a buck in rutting time. 

TROAT:  The cry of a buck in rutting time. 

TROCAR:  A stylet, usually with a triangular point, used for exploring tissues or for inserting drainage tubes, as in dropsy. [Written also trochar.] 

TROCHA:  A line of fortifications, usually rough, constructed to prevent the passage of an enemy across a region. [Sp. Amer.] 

TROCHAIC:  A trochaic verse or measure. Dryden.  TROCHAIC; TROCHAICAL Tro*cha"ic, Tro*cha"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. trochaïcus, Gr. Trochee.] (Pros.)  Of or pertaining to trochees; consisting of trochees; as, trochaic measure or verse. 

TROCHAL:  Resembling a wheel. Trochal disk (Zoöl.), the cephalic disk of a rotifer. It is usually surrounded by a fringe of cilia. 

TROCHANTER:  One of two processes near the head of the femur, the outer being called the great trochanter, and the inner the small trochanter.  2. (Zoöl.)  The third joint of the leg of an insect, or the second when the trochantine is united with the coxa. 

TROCHANTERIC:  Of or pertaining to one or both of the trochanters. 

TROCHANTINE:  The second joint of the leg of an insect, -- often united with the coxa. 

TROCHAR:  See Trocar. 

TROCHE:  A medicinal tablet or lozenge; strictly, one of circular form. 

TROCHEE:  A foot of two syllables, the first long and the second short, as in the Latin word ante, or the first accented and the second unaccented, as in the English word motion; a choreus. 

TROCHIL:  The crocodile bird. The crocodile . . . opens his chaps to let the trochil in to pick his teeth, which gives it the usual feeding. Sir T. Herbert. 

TROCHILI:  A division of birds comprising the humming birds. 

TROCHILIC:  OF or pertaining to rotary motion; having power to draw out or turn round. "By art trochilic." Camden. 

TROCHILICS:  The science of rotary motion, or of wheel work. Wilkins. 

TROCHILIDIST:  One who studies, or is versed in, the nature and habits of humming birds, or the Trochilidæ. Gould. 

TROCHILOS:  The crocodile bird, or trochil. 

TROCHILUS:  An annular molding whose section is concave, like the edge of a pulley; -- called also scotia. 

TROCHING:  One of the small branches of a stag's antler. 

TROCHISCUS:  A kind of tablet or lozenge; a troche. 

TROCHISK:  See Trochiscus. [Obs.] Bacon. 

TROCHITE:  A wheel-like joint of the stem of a fossil crinoid. 

TROCHLEA:  A pulley. [Obs.]  2. (Anat.)  A pulley, or a structure resembling a pulley; as, the trochlea, or pulleylike end, of the humerus, which articulates with the ulna; or the trochlea, or fibrous ring, in the upper part of the orbit, through which the superior oblique, or trochlear, muscle of the eye passes. 

TROCHLEAR:  Shaped like, or resembling, a pulley; pertaining to, or connected with, a trochlea; as, a trochlear articular surface; the trochlear muscle of the eye. Trochlear nerve. See Pathetic nerve, under Pathetic. 

TROCHLEARY:  Pertaining to, or connected with, a trochlea; trochlear; as, the trochleary, or trochlear, nerve. 

TROCHOID:  The curve described by any point in a wheel rolling on a line; a cycloid; a roulette; in general, the curve described by any point fixedly connected with a moving curve while the moving curve rolls without slipping on a second fixed curve, the curves all being in one plane. Cycloids, epicycloids, hypocycloids, cardioids, etc., are all trochoids. 

TROCHOID:  Admitting of rotation on an axis; -- sometimes applied to a pivot joint like that between the atlas and axis in the vertebral column.  2. (Zoöl.)  Top-shaped; having a flat base and conical spire; -- said of certain shells.  3. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the genus Trochus or family Trochidæ. 

TROCHOIDAL:  Of or pertaining to a trochoid; having the properties of a trochoid.  2. (Anat. & Zoöl.)  See Trochoid, a. 

TROCHOMETER:  A contrivance for computing the revolutions of a wheel; an odometer. 

TROCHOSPHERE:  A young larval form of many annelids, mollusks, and bryozoans, in which a circle of cilia is developed around the anterior end. 

TROCHUS:  Any one of numerous species of marine univalve shells belonging to Trochus and many allied genera of the family Trochidæ. Some of the species are called also topshells. 

TROCO:  An old English game; -- called also lawn billiards. 

TROD:  imp. & p. p. of Tread. 

TRODDEN:  p. p. of Tread. 

TRODE:  imp. of Tread. On burnished hooves his war-horse trode. Tennyson. 

TRODE:  Tread; footing. [Written also troad.][Obs.] Spenser. 

TROGLODYTE:  One of any savage race that dwells in caves, instead of constructing dwellings; a cave dweller. Most of the primitive races of man were troglodytes. In the troglodytes' country there is a lake, for the hurtful water it beareth called the "mad lake." Holland.  2. (Zoöl.)  An anthropoid ape, as the chimpanzee.  3. (Zoöl.)  The wren. 

TROGLODYTES:  A genus of apes including the chimpanzee.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of singing birds including the common wrens.  TROGLODYTIC; TROGLODYTICAL Trog`lo*dyt"ic, Trog`lo*dyt"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. troglodyticus, Gr.  Of or pertaining to a troglodyte, or dweller in caves. 

TROGON:  Any one of numerous species of beautiful tropical birds belonging to the family Trogonidæ. They are noted for the brilliant colors and the resplendent luster of their plumage.  Note: Some of the species have a train of long brilliant feathers lying over the tail and consisting of the upper tail coverts. Unlike other birds having two toes directed forward and two backward, they have the inner toe turned backward. A few species are found in Africa and India, but the greater number, including the most brilliant species, are found in tropical America. See Illust. of Quesal. 

TROGONOID:  Like or pertaining to the trogons. 

TROGUE:  A wooden trough, forming a drain. Raymond. 

TROIC:  Pertaining to Troy; Trojan. Gladstone. 

TROILITE:  Native iron protosulphide, FeS. It is known only in meteoric irons, and is usually in imbedded nodular masses of a bronze color. 

TROILUS:  A large, handsome American butterfly (Euphoeades, or Papilio, troilus). It is black, with yellow marginal spots on the front wings, and blue spots on the rear wings.  TROILUS BUTTERFLY Tro"i*lus butterfly.  A large American butterfly (Papilio troilus). It is black, with yellow marginal spots on the front wings, and blue on the rear.  TROIS POINT Trois` point". [F. trois three.] (Backgammon)  The third point from the outer edge on each player's home table. 

TROJAN:  Of or pertaining to ancient Troy or its inhabitants.  -- n.  A native or inhabitant of Troy. Tim jumped like a Trojan from the bed. Finnegan's Wake (Irish song) 

TROLL:  A supernatural being, often represented as of diminutive size, but sometimes as a giant, and fabled to inhabit caves, hills, and like places; a witch. Troll flower. (Bot.) Same as Globeflower (a). 

TROLLER:  One who trolls.  TROLLEY; TROLLY Trol"ley, Trol"ly, n. (a) A form of truck which can be tilted, for carrying railroad materials, or the like. [Eng.] (b) A narrow cart that is pushed by hand or drawn by an animal. [Eng.] (c) (Mach.) A truck from which the load is suspended in some kinds of cranes. (d) (Electric Railway) A truck which travels along the fixed conductors, and forms a means of connection between them and a railway car. Trolley line, (a) A trolley(e). (b) The path along which a trolley(e) runs.  -- Trolley car, a wheeled car powered by electricity drawn from a trolley, and thus constrained to follow the trolley lines.  TROLLEY CAR Trol"ley car. (Elec.)  A motor car to which the current is conveyed by means of a trolley.  TROLLEY WIRE Trolley wire.  A heavy conducting wire on which the trolley car runs and from which it receives the current. 

TROLLMYDAMES:  The game of nineholes. [Written also trolmydames.] [Obs.] Shak. 

TROLLOP:  A stroller; a loiterer; esp., an idle, untidy woman; a slattern; a slut; a whore. 

TROLLOPEE:  A kind of loose dress for women. [Obs.] Goldsmith. 

TROMBONE:  A powerful brass instrument of the trumpet kind, thought by some to be the ancient sackbut, consisting of a tube in three parts, bent twice upon itself and ending in a bell. The middle part, bent double, slips into the outer parts, as in a telescope, so that by change of the vibrating length any tone within the compass of the instrument (which may be bass or tenor or alto or even, in rare instances, soprano) is commanded. It is the only member of the family of wind instruments whose scale, both diatonic and chromatic, is complete without the aid of keys or pistons, and which can slide from note to note as smoothly as the human voice or a violin. Softly blown, it has a rich and mellow sound, which becomes harsh and blatant when the tones are forced; used with discretion, its effect is often solemn and majestic.  2. (Zoöl.)  The common European bittern. 

TROMMEL:  A revolving buddle or sieve for separating, or sizing, ores. Raymond. 

TROMP:  A blowing apparatus, in which air, drawn into the upper part of a vertical tube through side holes by a stream of water within, is carried down with the water into a box or chamber below which it is led to a furnace. [Written also trompe, and trombe.]  TROMP; TROMPE Tromp, Trompe, n. Etym: [See Trump a trumpet.]  A trumpet; a trump. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TROMPIL:  An aperture in a tromp. 

TRON:  See 3d Trone, 2. [Obs. or Scott.] 

TRONA:  A native double salt, consisting of a combination of neutral and acid sodium carbonate, Na2CO3.2HNaCO3.2H2O, occurring as a white crystalline fibrous deposit from certain soda brine springs and lakes; -- called also urao, and by the ancients nitrum. 

TRONAGE:  A toll or duty paid for weighing wool; also, the act of weighing wool. [Obs.] Nares. 

TRONATOR:  An officer in London whose duty was to weigh wool. [Obs.] 

TRONE:  A throne. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TRONE:  A small drain. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]  TRONE; TRONES Trone, Trones, n. Etym: [LL. trona, fr. L. trutina a balance; cf. Gr.  1. A steelyard. [Prov. Eng.]  2. A form of weighing machine for heavy wares, consisting of two horizontal bars crossing each other, beaked at the extremities, and supported by a wooden pillar. It is now mostly disused. [Scot.] Jamieson. Trone stone, a weight equivalent to nineteen and a half pounds. [Scot.] -- Trone weight, a weight formerly used in Scotland, in which a pound varied from 21 to 28 ounces avoirdupois. 

TROOP:  Specifically, a small body of cavalry, light horse, or dragoons, consisting usually of about sixty men, commanded by a captain; the unit of formation of cavalry, corresponding to the company in infantry. Formerly, also, a company of horse artillery; a battery.  4. A company of stageplayers; a troupe. W. Coxe.  5. (Mil.)  A particular roll of the drum; a quick march. 

TROOPBIRD:  Any troupial. 

TROOPER:  A soldier in a body of cavalry; a cavalryman; also, the horse of a cavalryman. 

TROOPFOWL:  The American scaup duck. [Local, U. S.] 

TROOPIAL:  Same as Troupial. 

TROOPMEAL:  By troops; in crowds. [Obs.] So, troopmeal, Troy pursued a while, laying on with swords and darts. Chapman. 

TROOPSHIP:  A vessel built or fitted for the conveyance of troops; a transport. [Eng.] 

TROOSTITE:  Willemite. 

TROPAEOLIN:  A name given to any one of a series of orange-red dyestuffs produced artificially from certain complex sulphonic acid derivatives of azo and diazo hydrocarbons of the aromatic series; -- so called because of the general resemblance to the shades of nasturtium (Tropæolum). 

TROPEINE:  Any one of a series of artificial ethereal salts derived from the alkaloidal base tropine. 

TROPHI:  The mouth parts of an insect, collectively, including the labrum, labium, maxillæ, mandibles, and lingua, with their appendages. 

TROPHIC:  Of or connected with nutrition; nitritional; nourishing; as, the so-called trophic nerves, which have a direct influence on nutrition. 

TROPHIED:  Adorned with trophies. The trophied arches, storied halls, invade. Pope. 

TROPHONIAN:  Of or pertaining to Trophonius, his architecture, or his cave and oracle. 

TROPHOSOME:  The nutritive zooids of a hydroid, collectively, as distinguished from the gonosome, or reproductive zooids. 

TROPHOSPERM:  The placenta. 

TROPHY:  A sign or memorial of a victory raised on the field of battle, or, in case of a naval victory, on the nearest land. Sometimes trophies were erected in the chief city of the conquered people.  Note: A trophy consisted originally of some of the armor, weapons, etc., of the defeated enemy fixed to the trunk of a tree or to a post erected on an elevated site, with an inscription, and a dedication to a divinity. The Romans often erected their trophies in the Capitol.  2. The representation of such a memorial, as on a medal; esp. (Arch.), an ornament representing a group of arms and military weapons, offensive and defensive.  3. Anything taken from an enemy and preserved as a memorial of victory, as arms, flags, standards, etc. Around the posts hung helmets, darts, and spears, And captive chariots, axes, shields, and bars, And broken beaks of ships, the trophies of their wars. Dryden.  4. Any evidence or memorial of victory or conquest; as, every redeemed soul is a trophy of grace.  Note: Some trophies(5) are unique, temporary possession of the same object passing to the new victors of some periodic contest in subsequent occurrences. Others are objects of little inherent worth, given by the authority sponsoring the contest to the victor. A trophy is sometimes shaped like a cup, and in such cases may be called a cup, as the America's Cup (in Yacht racing). Trophy money, a duty paid formerly in England, annually, by housekeepers, toward providing harness, drums, colors, and the like, for the militia. 

TROPIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine and certain other alkaloids, as a white crystalline substance slightly soluble in water. 

TROPIC:  One of the two small circles of the celestial sphere, situated on each side of the equator, at a distance of 23º 28min, and parallel to it, which the sun just reaches at its greatest declination north or south, and from which it turns again toward the equator, the northern circle being called the Tropic of Cancer, and the southern the Tropic of Capricorn, from the names of the two signs at which they touch the ecliptic.  2. (Geog.) (a) One of the two parallels of terrestrial latitude corresponding to the celestial tropics, and called by the same names. (b) pl.  The region lying between these parallels of latitude, or near them on either side. The brilliant flowers of the tropics bloom from the windows of the greenhouse and the saloon. Bancroft. 

TROPIC:  Of or pertaining to the tropics; tropical. Tropic bird (Zoöl.), any one of three species of oceanic belonging to the genus Phaëthon, found chiefly in tropical seas. They are mostly white, and have two central tail feathers very long and slender. The yellow-billed tropic bird. Phaëthon flavirostris (called also boatswain), is found on the Atlantic coast of America, and is common at the Bermudas, where it breeds. 

TROPICAL:  Rhetorically changed from its exact original sense; being of the nature of a trope; figurative; metaphorical. Jer. Taylor. The foundation of all parables is some analogy or similitude between the tropical or allusive part of the parable and the thing intended by it. South. Tropic month. See Lunar month, under Month.  -- Tropic year, the solar year; the period occupied by the sun in passing from one tropic or one equinox to the same again, having a mean length of 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes, 46.0 seconds, which is 20 minutes, 23.3 seconds shorter than the sidereal year, on account of the precession of the equinoxes. 

TROPICALLY:  In a tropical manner; figuratively; metaphorically. 

TROPIDINE:  An alkaloid, C8H13N, obtained by the chemical dehydration of tropine, as an oily liquid having a coninelike odor. 

TROPILIDENE:  A liquid hydrocarbon obtained by the dry distillation of tropine with quicklime. It is regarded as being homologous with dipropargyl. 

TROPINE:  A white crystalline alkaloid, C8H15NO, produced by decomposing atropine. 

TROPISM:  Modification of the direction of growth. 

TROPIST:  One who deals in tropes; specifically, one who avoids the literal sense of the language of Scripture by explaining it as mere tropes and figures of speech.  TROPOLOGIC; TROPOLOGICAL Trop`o*log"ic, Trop`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. tropologique. See Tropology.]  Characterized by tropes; varied by tropes; tropical. Burton.  -- Trop`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv. 

TROPOLOGIZE:  To use in a tropological sense, as a word; to make a trope of. [R.] If . . . Minerva be tropologized into prudence. Cudworth. 

TROPOLOGY:  A rhetorical mode of speech, including tropes, or changes from the original import of the word. Sir T. Browne. 

TROPPO:  Too much; as, allegro ma non troppo, brisk but not too much so. 

TROSSERS:  Trousers. [Obs.] Shak. 

TROT:  To cause to move, as a horse or other animal, in the pace called a trot; to cause to run without galloping or cantering. To trot out, to lead or bring out, as a horse, to show his paces; hence, to bring forward, as for exhibition. [Slang.] 

TROTHLESS:  Faitless; false; treacherous. Thrall to the faithless waves and trothless sky. Fairfax. 

TROTHPLIGHT:  To betroth. [Obs.] 

TROTHPLIGHT:  Betrothed; espoused; affianced. [Obs.] Shak. 

TROTHPLIGHT:  The act of betrothing, or plighting faith; betrothing. [Obs.] Shak. 

TROTHPLIGHTED:  Having fidelity pledged. 

TROTTOIR:  Footpath; pavement; sidewalk. Headless bodies trailed along the trottoirs. Froude. 

TROUBADOUR:  One of a school of poets who flourished from the eleventh to the thirteenth century, principally in Provence, in the south of France, and also in the north of Italy. They invented, and especially cultivated, a kind of lyrical poetry characterized by intricacy of meter and rhyme, and usually of a romantic, amatory strain. 

TROUBLABLE:  Causing trouble; troublesome. [Obs.] troublable ire." Chaucer. 

TROUBLE:  Troubled; dark; gloomy. [Obs.] "With full trouble cheer." Chaucer. 

TROUBLE:  A fault or interruption in a stratum. To get into trouble, to get into difficulty or danger. [Colloq.] -- To take the trouble, to be at the pains; to exert one's self; to give one's self inconvenience. She never took the trouble to close them. Bryant.  Syn.  -- Affliction; disturbance; perplexity; annoyance; molestation; vexation; inconvenience; calamity; misfortune; adversity; embarrassment; anxiety; sorrow; misery. 

TROUBLER:  One who troubles or disturbs; one who afflicts or molests; a disturber; as, a troubler of the peace. The rich troublers of the world's repose. Waller. 

TROUBLESOME:  Giving trouble or anxiety; vexatious; burdensome; wearisome. This troublesome world. Book of Common Prayer. These troublesome disguises that we wear. Milton. My mother will never be troublesome to me. Pope.  Syn.  -- Uneasy; vexatious; perplexing; harassing; annoying; disgusting; irksome; afflictive; burdensome; tiresome; wearisome; importunate.  -- Trou"ble*some*ly, adv.  -- Trou"ble*some*ness, n. 

TROUBLOUS:  Full of trouble; causing trouble. "In doubtful time of troublous need." Byron. A tall ship tossed in troublous seas. Spenser.  TROU-DE-LOUP Trou"-de-loup", n.; pl. Trous-de-loup(Etym: [F. trou hole + de of + loup wolf.] (Mil.)  A pit in the form of an inverted cone or pyramid, constructed as an obstacle to the approach of an enemy, and having a pointed stake in the middle. The pits are called also trapholes. 

TROUGH:  Any bivalve shell of the genus Mactra. See Mactra. 

TROUL:  See Troll. 

TROUNCE:  To punish or beat severely; to whip smartly; to flog; to castigate. [Colloq.] 

TROUPE:  A company or troop, especially the company pf performers in a play or an opera. 

TROUPIAL:  Any one of numerous species of bright-colored American birds belonging to Icterus and allied genera, especially Icterus icterus, a native of the West Indies and South America. Many of the species are called orioles in America. [Written also troopial.] 

TROUSE:  Trousers. [Obs.] Spenser. 

TROUSERING:  Cloth or material for making trousers. 

TROUSERS:  A garment worn by men and boys, extending from the waist to the knee or to the ankle, and covering each leg separately. pants; used attrib. in the singular, as a trouser leg; see pant 

TROUSSE:  A case for small implements; as, a surgeon's trousse. 

TROUSSEAU:  The collective lighter equipments or outfit of a bride, including clothes, jewelry, and the like; especially, that which is provided for her by her family. 

TROUT:  Any one of numerous species of fishes belonging to Salmo, Salvelinus, and allied genera of the family Salmonidæ. They are highly esteemed as game fishes and for the quality of their flesh. All the species breed in fresh water, but after spawning many of them descend to the sea if they have an opportunity.  Note: The most important European species are the river, or brown, trout (Salmo fario), the salmon trout, and the sewen. The most important American species are the brook, speckled, or red-spotted, trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) of the Northern United States and Canada; the red-spotted trout, or Dolly Varden (see Malma); the lake trout (see Namaycush); the black-spotted, mountain, or silver, trout (Salmo purpuratus); the golden, or rainbow, trout (see under Rainbow); the blueback trout (see Oquassa); and the salmon trout (see under Salmon.) The European trout has been introduced into America.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of marine fishes more or less resembling a trout in appearance or habits, but not belonging to the same family, especially the California rock trouts, the common squeteague, and the southern, or spotted, squeteague; -- called also salt-water trout, sea trout, shad trout, and gray trout. See Squeteague, and Rock trout under Rock. Trout perch (Zoöl.), a small fresh-water American fish (Percopsis guttatus), allied to the trout, but resembling a perch in its scales and mouth. 

TROUTBIRD:  The American golden plover. [Local, U. S.]  TROUT-COLORED Trout"-col`ored, a.  White, with spots of black, bay, or sorrel; as, a trout-colored horse. 

TROUTLET:  A little trout; a troutling. Hood. 

TROUTLING:  A little trout; a troutlet.  TROUVERE; TROUVEUR Trou`vère", Trou`veur", n. Etym: [F. trouveur, trouvère. See Troubadour.]  One of a school of poets who flourished in Northern France from the eleventh to the fourteenth century. 

TROW:  A boat with an open well amidships. It is used in spearing fish. Knight. 

TROW:  To believe; to trust; to think or suppose. [Archaic] So that ye trow in Christ, and you baptize. Chaucer. A better priest, I trow, there nowhere none is. Chaucer. It never yet was worn, I trow. Tennyson.  Note: I trow, or trow alone, was formerly sometimes added to questions to express contemptuous or indignant surprise. What tempest, I trow, threw this whale . . . ashore Shak. What is the matter, trow Shak. 

TROWEL:  A tool used for smoothing a mold. Trowel bayonet. See Spade bayonet, under Spade.  -- Fish trowel. See Fish slice, under Fish. 

TROWELED:  Formed with a trowel; smoothed with a trowel; as, troweled stucco, that is, stucco laid on and ready for the reception of paint. [Written also trowelled.] 

TROWELFUL:  As much as a trowel will hold; enough to fill a trowel. 

TROWL:  See Troll. 

TROWSED:  Wearing trousers. [Obs.] 

TROWSERS:  Same as Trousers. 

TROY:  Troy weight. Troy weight, the weight which gold and silver, jewels, and the like, are weighed. It was so named from Troyes, in France, where it was first adopted in Europe. The troy ounce is supposed to have been brought from Cairo during the crusades. In this weight the pound is divided into 12 ounces, the ounce into 20 pennyweights, and the pennyweight into 24 grains; hence, the troy ounce contains 480 grains, and the troy pound contains 5760 grains. The avoirdupois pound contains 7000 troy grains; so that 175 pounds troy equal 144 pounds avoirdupois, or 1 pound troy = 0.82286 of a pound avoirdupois, and 1 ounce troy = 1apothecaries' weight, used in weighing medicines, etc. In the standard weights of the United States, the troy ounce is divided decimally down to the 

TROYOUNCE:  See Troy ounce, under Troy weight, above, and under Ounce. 

TRUANCY:  The act of playing truant, or the state of being truant; as, addicted to truancy. 

TRUAND:  See Truant. [Obs.] 

TRUANT:  One who stays away from business or any duty; especially, one who stays out of school without leave; an idler; a loiterer; a shirk. Dryden. I have a truant been to chivalry. Shak. To play truant, to stray away; to loiter; especially, to stay out of school without leave. Sir T. Browne 

TRUANT:  Wandering from business or duty; loitering; idle, and shirking duty; as, a truant boy. While truant Jove, in infant pride, Played barefoot on Olympus' side. Trumbull. 

TRUANT:  To idle away time; to loiter, or wander; to play the truant. Shak. By this means they lost their time and truanted on the fundamental grounds of saving knowledge. Lowell. 

TRUANT:  To idle away; to waste. [R.] I dare not be the author Of truanting the time. Ford. 

TRUANTLY:  Like a truant; in idleness. 

TRUANTSHIP:  The conduct of a truant; neglect of employment; idleness; truancy. Ascham. 

TRUB:  A truffle. [Obs.] 

TRUBTALL:  A short, squat woman. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

TRUBU:  An East India herring (Clupea toli) which is extensively caught for the sake of its roe and for its flesh. 

TRUCE:  A suspension of arms by agreement of the commanders of opposing forces; a temporary cessation of hostilities, for negotiation or other purpose; an armistice.  2. Hence, intermission of action, pain, or contest; temporary cessation; short quiet. Where he may likeliest find Truce to his restless thoughts. Milton. Flag of truce (Mil.), a white flag carried or exhibited by one of the hostile parties, during the flying of which hostilities are suspended.  -- Truce of God, a suspension of arms promulgated by the church, which occasionally took place in the Middle Ages, putting a stop to private hostilities at or within certain periods. 

TRUCEBREAKER:  One who violates a truce, covenant, or engagement. 

TRUCELESS:  Without a truce; unforbearing. Two minds in one, and each a truceless guest. H. Brooke. 

TRUCHMAN:  An interpreter. See Dragoman. [Obs.] And after, by the tongue, Her truchman, she reports the mind's each throw. B. Jonson. 

TRUCIDATION:  The act of killing. [Obs.] 

TRUCK:  A swiveling carriage, consisting of a frame with one or more pairs of wheels and the necessary boxes, springs, etc., to carry and guide one end of a locomotive or a car; -- sometimes called bogie in England. Trucks usually have four or six wheels.  4. (Naut.) (a) A small wooden cap at the summit of a flagstaff or a masthead, having holes in it for reeving halyards through. (b) A small piece of wood, usually cylindrical or disk-shaped, used for various purposes.  5. A freight car. [Eng.]  6. A frame on low wheels or rollers; -- used for various purposes, as for a movable support for heavy bodies. 

TRUCK:  To transport on a truck or trucks. 

TRUCK:  To exchange; to give in exchange; to barter; as, to truck knives for gold dust. We will begin by supposing the international trade to be in form, what it always is in reality, an actual trucking of one commodity against another. J. S. Mill. 

TRUCK:  To exchange commodities; to barter; to trade; to deal. A master of a ship, who deceived them under color of trucking with them. Palfrey. Despotism itself is obliged to truck and huckster. Burke. To truck and higgle for a private good. Emerson. 

TRUCKAGE:  The practice of bartering goods; exchange; barter; truck. The truckage of perishing coin. Milton. 

TRUCKAGE:  Money paid for the conveyance of goods on a truck; freight. 

TRUCKER:  One who trucks; a trafficker. No man having ever yet driven a saving bargain with this great trucker for souls. South. 

TRUCKING:  The business of conveying goods on trucks. 

TRUCKLE:  A small wheel or caster. Hudibras. 

TRUCKLE:  To yield or bend obsequiously to the will of another; to submit; to creep. "Small, trucking states." Burke. Religion itself is forced to truckle to worldly poliey. Norris. 

TRUCKLE:  To roll or move upon truckles, or casters; to trundle.  TRUCKLE-BED Truc"kle-bed`, n.  A low bed on wheels, that may be pushed under another bed; a trundle-bed. "His standing bed and truckle-bed." Shak. 

TRUCKLER:  One who truckles, or yields servilely to the will of another. 

TRUCKMAN:  One who does business in the way of barter or exchange.  2. Etym: [From Truck a carriage.]  One who drives a truck, or whose business is the conveyance of goods on trucks.  TRUCULENCE; TRUCULENCY Tru"cu*lence, Tru"cu*len*cy, n. Etym: [L.truculentia.]  The quality or state of being truculent; savageness of manners; ferociousness. 

TRUCULENTLY:  In a truculent manner. 

TRUDGE:  To walk or march with labor; to jog along; to move wearily. And trudged to Rome upon my naked feet. Dryden. 

TRUDGEMAN:  A truchman. [Obs.]  TRUDGEN STROKE Trudg"en stroke. (Swimming)  A racing stroke in which a double over-arm motion is used; -- so called from its use by an amateur named Trudgen, but often erroneously written trudgeon. 

TRUE:  In accordance with truth; truly. Shak.  TRUE-BLUE True"-blue`, a.  Of inflexible honesty and fidelity; -- a term derived from the true, or Coventry, blue, formerly celebrated for its unchanging color. See True blue, under Blue.  TRUE-BLUE True"-blue`, n.  A person of inflexible integrity or fidelity.  TRUE-BORN True"-born`, a.  Of genuine birth; having a right by birth to any title; as, a true-born Englishman.  TRUE-BRED True"-bred`, a.  1. Of a genuine or right breed; as, a true-bred beast. Shak.  2. Being of real breeding or education; as, a true-bred gentleman.  TRUE-HEARTED True"-heart`ed, a.  Of a faithful heart; honest; sincere; not faithless or deceitful; as, a truhearted friend.  -- True"-heart`ed*ness, n. 

TRUELOVE:  A plant. See Paris.  3. An unexplained word occurring in Chaucer, meaning, perhaps, an aromatic sweetmeat for sweetening the breath. T. R. Lounsbury. Under his tongue a truelove he bore. Chaucer. Truelove knot, a complicated, involved knot that does not readily untie; the emblem of interwoven affection or engagement; -- called also true-lover's knot. 

TRUENESS:  The quality of being true; reality; genuineness; faithfulness; sincerity; exactness; truth.  TRUE-PENNY True"-pen`ny, n.  An honest fellow. Shak. Bacon. 

TRUFFLE:  Any one of several kinds of roundish, subterranean fungi, usually of a blackish color. The French truffle (Tuber melanosporum) and the English truffle (T. æstivum) are much esteemed as articles of food. Truffle worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a fly of the genus Leiodes, injurious to truffles. Truffle pig, a pig used for finding truffles.  Note: When trained, certain pigs have a peculiar ability to smell truffles which lie underground, making them useful for searching out hidden truffles. 

TRUFFLED:  Provided or cooked with truffles; stuffed with truffles; as, a truffled turkey. 

TRUG:  A brothel. [Obs.] Robert Greene. 

TRUISM:  An undoubted or self-evident truth; a statement which is pliantly true; a proposition needing no proof or argument; -- opposed to falsism. Trifling truisms clothed in great, swelling words. J. P. Smith. 

TRUISMATIC:  Of or pertaining to truisms; consisting of truisms. [R.] 

TRUITE:  Having a delicately crackled surface; --applied to porcelian, etc. 

TRULLIZATION:  The act of laying on coats of plaster with a trowel. 

TRUMP:  A wind instrument of music; a trumpet, or sound of a trumpet; - - used chiefly in Scripture and poetry. We shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump. 1 Cor. xv. 51, 52. The wakeful trump of doom. Milton. 

TRUMP:  To blow a trumpet. [Obs.] Wyclif (Matt. vi. 2). 

TRUMP:  To play a trump card when one of another suit has been led. 

TRUMP:  To play a trump card upon; to take with a trump card; as, she trumped the first trick. 

TRUMPERY:  Worthless or deceptive in character. "A trumpery little ring." Thackeray. 

TRUMPET:  A wind instrument of great antiquity, much used in war and military exercises, and of great value in the orchestra. In consists of a long metallic tube, curved (once or twice) into a convenient shape, and ending in a bell. Its scale in the lower octaves is limited to the first natural harmonics; but there are modern trumpets capable, by means of valves or pistons, of producing every tone within their compass, although at the expense of the true ringing quality of tone. The trumpet's loud clangor Excites us to arms. Dryden.  2. (Mil.)  A trumpeter. Clarendon.  3. One who praises, or propagates praise, or is the instrument of propagating it. Shak. That great politician was pleased to have the greatest wit of those times . . . to be the trumpet of his praises. Dryden.  4. (Mach)  A funnel, or short, fiaring pipe, used as a guide or conductor, as for yarn in a knitting machine. Ear trumpet. See under Ear.  -- Sea trumpet (Bot.), a great seaweed (Ecklonia buccinalis) of the Southern Ocean. It has a long, hollow stem, enlarging upwards, which may be made into a kind of trumpet, and is used for many purposes.  -- Speaking trumpet, an instrument for conveying articulate sounds with increased force.  -- Trumpet animalcule (Zoöl.), any infusorian belonging to Stentor and allied genera, in which the body is trumpet-shaped. See Stentor.  -- Trumpet ash (Bot.), the trumpet creeper. [Eng.] -- Trumpet conch (Zoöl.), a trumpet shell, or triton.  -- Trumpet creeper (Bot.), an American climbing plant (Tecoma radicans) bearing clusters of large red trumpet-shaped flowers; -- called also trumpet flower, and in England trumpet ash.  -- Trumpet fish. (Zoöl.) (a) The bellows fish. (b) The fistularia.  -- Trumpet flower. (Bot.) (a) The trumpet creeper; also, its blossom. (b) The trumpet honeysuckle. (c) A West Indian name for several plants with trumpet-shaped flowers.  -- Trumpet fly (Zoöl.), a botfly.  -- Trumpet honeysuckle (Bot.), a twining plant (Lonicera sempervirens) with red and yellow trumpet-shaped flowers; -- called also trumpet flower.  -- Trumpet leaf (Bot.), a name of several plants of the genus Sarracenia.  -- Trumpet major (Mil.), the chief trumpeter of a band or regiment.  -- Trumpet marine (Mus.), a monochord, having a thick string, sounded with a bow, and stopped with the thumb so as to produce the harmonic tones; -- said to be the oldest bowed instrument known, and in form the archetype of all others. It probably owes its name to "its external resemblance to the large speaking trumpet used on board Italian vessels, which is of the same length and tapering shape." Grove.  -- Trumpet shell (Zoöl.), any species of large marine univalve shells belonging to Triton and allied genera. See Triton, 2.  -- Trumpet tree. (Bot.) See Trumpetwood. 

TRUMPET:  To publish by, or as by, sound of trumpet; to noise abroad; to proclaim; as, to trumpet good tidings. They did nothing but publish and trumpet all the reproaches they could devise against the Irish. Bacon. 

TRUMPET:  To sound loudly, or with a tone like a trumpet; to utter a trumplike cry. 

TRUMPETER:  A large edible fish (Latris hecateia) of the family Cirrhitidæ, native of Tasmania and New Zealand. It sometimes weighs as much as fifty or sixty pounds, and is highly esteemed as a food fish. 

TRUMPETING:  A channel cut behind the brick lining of a shaft. Raymond. 

TRUMPETS:  A plant (Sarracenia flava) with long, hollow leaves.  TRUMPET-SHAPED Trump"et-shaped`, a.  Tubular with one end dilated, as the flower of the trumpet creeper.  TRUMPET-TONGUED Trump"et-tongued`, a.  Having a powerful, far-reaching voice or speech. 

TRUMPETWOOD:  A tropical American tree (Cecropia peltata) of the Breadfruit family, having hollow stems, which are used for wind instruments; -- called also snakewood, and trumpet tree. 

TRUMPIE:  The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus). 

TRUMPLIKE:  Resembling a trumpet, esp. in sound; as, a trumplike voice. Chapman. 

TRUNCAL:  Of or pertaining to the trunk, or body. 

TRUNCATE:  To cut off; to lop; to maim. 

TRUNCATE:  Appearing as if cut off at the tip; as, a truncate leaf or feather. 

TRUNCATED:  Replaced, or cut off, by a plane, especially when equally inclined to the adjoining faces; as, a truncated edge.  3. (Zoöl.)  Lacking the apex; -- said of certain spiral shells in which the apex naturally drops off. Truncated cone or pyramid (Geom.), a cone or pyramid whose vertex is cut off by a plane, the plane being usually parallel to the base. 

TRUNCATION:  The replacement of an edge or solid angle by a plane, especially when the plane is equally inclined to the adjoining faces. 

TRUNCH:  A stake; a small post. [Obs.] 

TRUNCHEON:  To beat with a truncheon. Shak. 

TRUNCHEONED:  Having a truncheon. 

TRUNCHEONEER:  A person armed with a truncheon. [Written also truncheoner.] 

TRUNCUS:  The thorax of an insect. See Trunk, n., 5. 

TRUNDLE:  A low bed that is moved on trundles, or little wheels, so that it can be pushed under a higher bed; a truckle-bed; also, sometimes, a simiral bed without wheels. Chapman. 

TRUNDLEHEAD:  One of the disks forming the ends of a lantern wheel or pinion.  2. The drumhead of a capstan; especially, the drumhead of the lower of two capstans on the sane axis. 

TRUNDLETAIL:  A round or curled-up tail; also, a dog with such a tail. Shak. 

TRUNK:  That part of a pilaster which is between the base and the capital, corresponding to the shaft of a column.  5. (Zoöl.)  That segment of the body of an insect which is between the head and abdomen, and bears the wings and legs; the thorax; the truncus.  6. (Zoöl.) (a) The proboscis of an elephant. (b) The proboscis of an insect.  7. A long tube through which pellets of clay, p He shot sugarplums them out of a trunk. Howell.  8. A box or chest usually covered with leather, metal, or cloth, or sometimes made of leather, hide, or metal, for containing clothes or other goods; especially, one used to convey the effects of a traveler. Locked up in chests and trunks. Shak.  9. (Mining)  A flume or sluice in which ores are separated from the slimes in which they are contained.  10. (Steam Engine)  A large pipe forming the piston rod of a steam engine, of sufficient diameter to allow one end of the connecting rod to be attached to the crank, and the other end to pass within the pipe directly to the piston, thus making the engine more compact.  11. A long, large box, pipe, or conductor, made of plank or metal plates, for various uses, as for conveying air to a mine or to a furnace, water to a mill, grain to an elevator, etc. Trunk engine, a marine engine, the piston rod of which is a trunk. See Trunk, 10.  -- Trunk hose, large breeches formerly worn, reaching to the knees.  -- Trunk line, the main line of a railway, canal, or route of conveyance.  -- Trunk turtle (Zoöl.), the leatherback. 

TRUNK:  To extract (ores) from the slimes in which they are contained, by means of a trunk. See Trunk, n., 9. Weale. 

TRUNKBACK:  The leatherback. 

TRUNKED:  Having (such) a trunk. Thickset with strong and well-trunked trees. Howell.  TRUNK ENGINE Trunk engine.  An engine having a trunk piston, as most internal combustion engines. 

TRUNKFISH:  Any one of several species of plectognath fishes, belonging to the genus Ostracion, or the family Ostraciontidæ, having an angular body covered with a rigid integument consisting of bony scales. Some of the species are called also coffer fish, and boxfish. 

TRUNKFUL:  As much as a trunk will hold; enough to fill a trunk.  TRUNK PISTON Trunk piston.  In a single-acting engine, an elongated hollow piston, open at the end, in which the end of the connecting rod is pivoted. The piston rod, crosshead and stuffing box are thus dispensed with.  TRUNK STEAMER Trunk steamer.  A freight steamer having a high hatch coaming extending almost continuously fore and aft, but not of whaleback form at the sides. 

TRUNKWORK:  Work or devices suitable to be concealed; a secret stratagem. [Obs.] 

TRUNNEL:  A trundle. [R.] 

TRUNNEL:  See Treenail. 

TRUNNION:  A cylindrical projection on each side of a piece, whether gun, mortar, or howitzer, serving to support it on the cheeks of the carriage. See Illust. of Cannon.  2. (Steam Engine)  A gudgeon on each side of an oscillating steam cylinder, to support it. It is usually tubular, to convey steam. Trunnion plate (Gun.), a plate in the carriage of a gun, mortar, or howitzer, which covers the upper part of the cheek, and forms a bearing under the trunnion.  -- Trunnion ring (Gun.), a ring on a cannon next before the trunnions. [R.] 

TRUNNIONED:  Provided with trunnions; as, the trunnioned cylinder of an oscillating steam engine. 

TRUSION:  The act of pushing or thrusting. [R.] Bentley. 

TRUSS:  A bandage or apparatus used in cases of hernia, to keep up the reduced parts and hinder further protrusion, and for other purposes.  4. (Bot.)  A tuft of flowers formed at the top of the main stalk, or stem, of certain plants.  5. (Naut.)  The rope or iron used to keep the center of a yard to the mast.  6. (Arch. & Engin.)  An assemblage of members of wood or metal, supported at two points, and arranged to transmit pressure vertically to those points, with the least possible strain across the length of any member. Architectural trusses when left visible, as in open timber roofs, often contain members not needed for construction, or are built with greater massiveness than is requisite, or are composed in unscientific ways in accordance with the exigencies of style. Truss rod, a rod which forms the tension member of a trussed beam, or a tie rod in a truss. 

TRUSSING:  The timbers, etc., which form a truss, taken collectively. Weale.  2. (Arch. & Engin.)  The art of stiffening or bracing a set of timbers, or the like, by putting in struts, ties, etc., till it has something of the character of a truss.  3. The act of a hawk, or other bird of prey, in seizing its quarry, and soaring with it into air. [Obs.] 

TRUST:  An estate devised or granted in confidence that the devisee or grantee shall convey it, or dispose of the profits, at the will, or for the benefit, of another; an estate held for the use of another; a confidence respecting property reposed in one person, who is termed the trustee, for the benefit of another, who is called the cestui que trust.  8. An organization formed mainly for the purpose of regulating the supply and price of commodities, etc.; as, a sugar trust. [Cant]  Syn.  -- Confidence; belief; faith; hope; expectation. Trust deed (Law), a deed conveying property to a trustee, for some specific use. 

TRUST:  Held in trust; as, trust property; trustmoney. 

TRUST:  Any corporation formed for the purpose of acting as trustee. Such companies usually do more or less of a banking business. 

TRUSTEE:  A person to whom property is legally committed in trust, to be applied either for the benefit of specified individuals, or for public uses; one who is intrusted with property for the benefit of another; also, a person in whose hands the effects of another are attached in a trustee process. Trustee process (Law), a process by which a creditor may attach his debtor's goods, effects, and credits, in the hands of a third person; -- called, in some States, the process of foreign attachment, garnishment, or factorizing process. [U. S.] 

TRUSTEE:  To attach (a debtor's wages, credits, or property in the hands of a third person) in the interest of the creditor. [U.S.]  TRUSTEE PROCESS Trus*tee" proc"ess. (Law)  The process of attachment by garnishment. [U. S.] 

TRUSTEESHIP:  The office or duty of a trustee.  TRUSTEE STOCK Trustee stock. (Finance)  High-grade stock in which trust funds may be legally invested. [Colloq.] 

TRUSTER:  One who makes a trust; -- the correlative of trustee. 

TRUSTILY:  In a trusty manner. 

TRUSTINESS:  The quality or state of being trusty. 

TRUSTING:  Having or exercising trust; confiding; unsuspecting; trustful.  -- Trust"ing*ly, adv. 

TRUSTLESS:  That may not be trusted; not worthy of trust; unfaithful.  -- Trust"less*ness, n. 

TRUSTWORTHY:  Worthy of trust or confidence; trusty.  -- Trust"wor`thi*ness, n. 

TRUTH:  To assert as true; to declare. [R.] Had they [the ancients] dreamt this, they would have truthed it heaven. Ford. 

TRUTHFUL:  Full of truth; veracious; reliable.  -- Truth"ful*ly, adv.  -- Truth"ful*ness, n. 

TRUTHLESS:  Devoid of truth; dishonest; dishonest; spurious; faithless.  -- Truth"less*ness, n.  TRUTH-LOVER Truth"-lov`er, n.  One who loves the truth. Truth-lover was our English Duke. Tennyson. 

TRUTHNESS:  Truth. [Obs. & R.] Marston.  TRUTH-TELLER Truth"-tell`er, n.  One who tells the truth. Truth-teller was our England's Alfred named. Tennyson. 

TRUTHY:  Truthful; likely; probable. [R.] "A more truthy import." W. G. Palgrave. 

TRUTINATION:  The act of weighing. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

TRUTTACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a trout; as, fish of the truttaceous kind. 

TRY:  To examine or investigate judicially; to examine by witnesses or other judicial evidence and the principles of law; as, to try a cause, or a criminal.  8. To settle; to decide; to determine; specifically, to decide by an appeal to arms; as, to try rival claims by a duel; to try conclusions. Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried. Shak.  9. To experience; to have or gain knowledge of by experience. Milton. Or try the Libyan heat or Scythian cold. Dryden.  10. To essay; to attempt; to endeavor. Let us try . . . to found a path. Milton. To try on. (a) To put on, as a garment, to ascertain whether it fits the person. (b) To attempt; to undertake. [Slang] Dickens.  Syn.  -- To attempt; endeavor; strive; aim; examine.  -- Try, Attempt. To try is the generic, to attempt is the specific, term. When we try, we are usually uncertain as to success; when we attempt, we have always some definite object in view which we seek to accomplish. We may be indifferent as to the result of a trial, but we rarely attempt anything without a desire to succeed. He first deceased: she for a little tried To live without him; liked it not, and died. Sir H. Wotton. Alack, I am afraid they have a waked, And 't is not done. The attempt, and not the deed, Confounds us. Shak. 

TRY:  Refined; select; excellent; choice. [Obs.] "Sugar that is try." Chaucer.  TRY COCK Try cock.  A cock for withdrawing a small quantity of liquid, as for testing. 

TRYGON:  Any one of several species of large sting rays belonging to Trygon and allied genera. 

TRYING:  Adapted to try, or put to severe trial; severe; afflictive; as, a trying occasion or position. 

TRYOUT:  A test by which the fitness of a player or contestant to remain in a certain class is determined. 

TRYPSIN:  A proteolytic ferment, or enzyme, present in the pancreatic juice. Unlike the pepsin of the gastric juice, it acts in a neutral or alkaline fluid, and not only converts the albuminous matter of the food into soluble peptones, but also, in part, into leucin and tyrosin. 

TRYPSINOGEN:  The antecedent of trypsin, a substance which is contained in the cells of the pancreas and gives rise to the trypsin. 

TRYPTIC:  Relating to trypsin or to its action; produced by trypsin; as, trypsin digestion. 

TRYPTONE:  The peptone formed by pancreatic digestion; -- so called because it is formed through the agency of the ferment trypsin. 

TRYSAIL:  A fore-and-aft sail, bent to a gaff, and hoisted on a lower mast or on a small mast, called the trysail mast, close abaft a lower mast; -- used chiefly as a storm sail. Called also spencer. Totten.  TRY-SQUARE Try"-square`, n.  An instrument used by carpenters, joiners, etc., for laying off right angles off right angles, and testing whether work is square. 

TRYST:  To mutually agree to meet at a certain place. [Scot.] 

TRYSTER:  One who makes an appointment, or tryst; one who meets with another. 

TRYSTING:  An appointment; a tryst. Trysting day, an arranged day of meeting or assembling, as of soldiers, friends, and the like. And named a trysting day, And bade his messengers ride forth East and west and south and north, To summon his array. Macaulay. -- Trysting place, a place designated for the assembling of soldiers, the meeting of parties for an interview, or the like; a rendezvous. Byron. 

TSAR:  The title of the emperor of Russia. See Czar.  TSARINA; TSARITSA Tsa*ri"na, Tsa*rit"sa, n. Etym: [Russ. tsaritsa. Cf. Czarina.]  The title of the empress of Russia. See Czarina. 

TSCHAKMECK:  The chameck. 

TSCHEGO:  A West African anthropoid ape allied to the gorilla and chimpanzee, and by some considered only a variety of the chimpanzee. It is noted for building large, umbrella-shaped nests in trees. Called also tscheigo, tschiego, nschego, nscheigo. 

TSEBE:  The springbok. 

TSETSE:  A venomous two-winged African fly (Glossina morsitans) whose bite is very poisonous, and even fatal, to horses and cattle, but harmless to men. It renders extensive districts in which it abounds uninhabitable during certain seasons of the year. [Written also tzetze, and tsetze.]  T SQUARE T" square`.  See under T.  TSUNG-LI YAMEN Tsung"-li Ya"men. [Written also Tsung-li-Yamen or Tsungli Yamen.] [Chin.]  The board or department of foreign affairs in the Chinese government. See Yamen.  TSUNG TU Tsung" tu`.  A viceroy or governor-general, the highest provincial official in China, with civil and military authority over one or more provinces. 

TUATARA:  A large iguanalike reptile (Sphenodon punctatum) formerly common in New Zealand, but now confined to certain islets near the coast. It reaches a length of two and a half feet, is dark olive- green with small white or yellowish specks on the sides, and has yellow spines along the back, except on the neck. 

TUATERA:  See Hatteria. 

TUB:  To plant or set in a tub; as, to tub a plant. 

TUB:  To make use of a bathing tub; to lie or be in a bath; to bathe. [Colloq.] Don't we all tub in England London Spectator. 

TUBAL:  Of or pertaining to a tube; specifically, of or pertaining to one of the Fallopian tubes; as, tubal pregnancy. 

TUBBY:  Resembling a tub; specifically sounding dull and without resonance, like a tub; wanting elasticity or freedom of sound; as, a tubby violin. 

TUBE:  The narrow, hollow part of a gamopetalous corolla.  5. (Gun.)  A priming tube, or friction primer. See under Priming, and Friction.  6. (Steam Boilers)  A small pipe forming part of the boiler, containing water and surrounded by flame or hot gases, or else surrounded by water and forming a flue for the gases to pass through.  7. (Zoöl.) (a) A more or less cylindrical, and often spiral, case secreted or constructed by many annelids, crustaceans, insects, and other animals, for protection or concealment. See Illust. of Tubeworm. (b) One of the siphons of a bivalve mollusk. Capillary tube, a tube of very fine bore. See Capillary.  -- Fire tube (Steam Boilers), a tube which forms a flue.  -- Tube coral. (Zoöl.) Same as Tubipore.  -- Tube foot (Zoöl.), one of the ambulacral suckers of an echinoderm.  -- Tube plate, or Tube sheet (Steam Boilers), a flue plate. See under Flue.  -- Tube pouch (Mil.), a pouch containing priming tubes.  -- Tube spinner (Zoöl.), any one of various species of spiders that construct tubelike webs. They belong to Tegenaria, Agelena, and allied genera.  -- Water tube (Steam Boilers), a tube containing water and surrounded by flame or hot gases. 

TUBE:  To furnish with a tube; as, to tube a well. 

TUBEFORM:  In the form of a tube; tubular; tubiform.  TUBE-NOSED Tube"-nosed`, a. (Zoöl.) (a) Having the nostrils prolonged in the form of horny tubes along the sides of the beak; -- said of certain sea birds. (b) Belonging to the Tubinares. 

TUBER:  A tuberosity; a tubercle. 

TUBERCLE:  A small mass or aggregation of morbid matter; especially, the deposit which accompanies scrofula or phthisis. This is composed of a hard, grayish, or yellowish, translucent or opaque matter, which gradually softens, and excites suppuration in its vicinity. It is most frequently found in the lungs, causing consumption. Tubercle bacillus (Med.), a minute vegetable organism (Bacillus tuberculosis) discovered by Koch, a German physician, in the sputum of consumptive patients and in tuberculous tissue, and believed to be the exciting cause of tubercles and tuberculosis. 

TUBERCLED:  Having tubercles; affected with, tubercles; tuberculate; as, a tubercled lung or stalk. 

TUBERCULAR:  Characterized by the development of tubercles; as, tubercular diathesis. 

TUBERCULARIZE:  To infect with tuberculosis. --Tu*ber`cu*lar*i*za"tion (#), n.  TUBERCULATE; TUBERCULATED Tu*ber"cu*late, Tu*ber"cu*la`ted, a. Etym: [NL. tuberculatus: cf. F. tuberculé.]  Tubercled; tubercular. 

TUBERCULIN:  A fluid containing the products formed by the growth of the tubercle bacillus in a suitable culture medium.  TUBERCULIN TEST Tu*ber"cu*lin test.  The hypodermic injection of tuberculin, which has little or no effect with healthy cattle, but causes a marked rise in temperature in tuberculous animals. 

TUBERCULIZATION:  The development of tubercles; the condition of one who is affected with tubercles. 

TUBERCULOCIDIN:  A special substance contained in tuberculin, supposed to be the active agent of the latter freed from various impurities. 

TUBERCULOID:  Resembling a tubercle.  TUBERCULOSE; TUBERCULOUS Tu*ber"cu*lose`, Tu*ber"cu*lous, a.  Having tubercles; affected with, or characterized by, tubercles; tubercular. 

TUBERCULOSED:  Affected with tuberculosis. 

TUBERCULOSIS:  A constitutional disease characterized by the production of tubercles in the internal organs, and especially in the lungs, where it constitutes the most common variety of pulmonary consumption. 

TUBERCULUM:  A tubercle. 

TUBERIFEROUS:  Producing or bearing tubers. 

TUBEROSE:  A plant (Polianthes tuberosa) with a tuberous root and a liliaceous flower. It is much cultivated for its beautiful and fragrant white blossoms. 

TUBEROSE:  Tuberous. 

TUBEROUS:  Consisting of, or bearing, tubers; resembling a tuber.  -- Tu"ber*ous*ness, n.  TUBE-SHELL Tube"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any bivalve mollusk which secretes a shelly tube around its siphon, as the watering-shell. 

TUBEWORM:  Any annelid which constructs a tube; one of the Tubicolæ. 

TUBFISH:  The sapphirine gurnard (Trigla hirundo). See Illust. under Gurnard. [Prov. Eng.] 

TUBFUL:  As much as a tub will hold; enough to fill a tub. 

TUBICINATE:  To blow a trumpet. 

TUBICOLAE:  A division of annelids including those which construct, and habitually live in, tubes. The head or anterior segments usually bear gills and cirri. Called also Sedentaria, and Capitibranchiata. See Serpula, and Sabella. 

TUBICOLAR:  Tubicolous. 

TUBICOLE:  One of the Tubicolæ. 

TUBICOLOUS:  Inhabiting a tube; as, tubicolous worms. 

TUBICORN:  Any ruminant having horns composed of a bony axis covered with a horny sheath; a hollow-horned ruminant. 

TUBICORNOUS:  Having hollow horns. 

TUBIFORM:  Having the form of a tube; tubeform. "Tubiform cells." Carpenter. 

TUBINARES:  A tribe of sea birds comprising the petrels, shearwaters, albatrosses, hagdons, and allied birds having tubular horny nostrils. 

TUBIPORA:  A genus of halcyonoids in which the skeleton, or coral (called organ-pipe coral), consists of a mass of parallel cylindrical tubes united at intervals by transverse plates. These corals are usually red or purple and form large masses. They are natives of the tropical parts of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. 

TUBIPORE:  Any species of the genus Tubipora. 

TUBIPORITE:  Any fossil coral of the genus Syringopora consisting of a cluster of upright tubes united together by small transverse tubules. 

TUBIVALVE:  A shell or tube formed by an annelid, as a serpula. 

TUBMAN:  One of the two most experienced barristers in the Court of Exchequer. Cf. Postman, 2. 

TUBULAR:  Having the form of a tube, or pipe; consisting of a pipe; fistular; as, a tubular snout; a tubular calyx. Also, containing, or provided with, tubes. Tubular boiler. See under Boiler.  -- Tubular breathing (Med.), a variety of respiratory sound, heard on auscultation over the lungs in certain cases of disease, resembling that produced by the air passing through the trachea.  -- Tubular bridge, a bridge in the form of a hollow trunk or tube, made of iron plates riveted together, as the Victoria bridge over the St. Lawrence, at Montreal, Canada, and the Britannia bridge over the Menai Straits.  -- Tubular girder, a plate girder having two or more vertical webs with a space between them. 

TUBULARIA:  A genus of hydroids having large, naked, flowerlike hydranths at the summits of long, slender, usually simple, stems. The gonophores are small, and form clusters at the bases of the outer tentacles. 

TUBULARIAE:  See Tubularida. 

TUBULARIAN:  Any hydroid belonging to the suborder Tubularida.  Note: These hydroids usually form tufts of delicate tubes, and both gonophores and hydranths are naked. The gonophores of many of the species become free jellyfishes; those of other species remain permanently attached as medusoid buds or sporosacs. See Illust. under Gonosome, and Cymnoblastea. 

TUBULARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the tubularians. 

TUBULARIDA:  An extensive division of Hydroidea; the tubularians; -- called also Athecata, Gymnoblastea, and Tubulariæ. 

TUBULATE:  Tubular; tubulated; tubulous. 

TUBULATED:  Made in the form of a small tube; provided with a tube, or elongated opening. Tubulated bottle or retort (Chem.), a bottle or retort having a stoppered opening for the introduction or removal of materials. 

TUBULATION:  The act of shaping or making a tube, or of providing with a tube; also, a tube or tubulure; as, the tubulation of a retort. 

TUBULATURE:  A tubulure. 

TUBULE:  A minute tube lined with glandular epithelium; as, the uriniferous tubules of the kidney. 

TUBULIBRANCHIAN:  One of the Tubulibranchiata. 

TUBULIBRANCHIATA:  A group of gastropod mollusks having a tubular shell. Vermetus is an example. 

TUBULICOLE:  Any hydroid which has tubular chitinous stems. 

TUBULIDENTATE:  Having teeth traversed by canals; -- said of certain edentates. 

TUBULIFORM:  Having the form of a small tube. 

TUBULIPORE:  Any one of numerous species of Bryozoa belonging to Tubulipora and allied genera, having tubular calcareous calicles.  TUBULOSE; TUBULOUS Tu"bu*lose`, Tu"bu*lous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tubuleux. See Tubule.]  1. Resembling, or in the form of, a tube; longitudinally hollow; specifically (Bot.), having a hollow cylindrical corolla, often expanded or toothed at the border; as, a tubulose flower.  2. Containing, or consisting of, small tubes; specifically (Bot.), composed wholly of tubulous florets; as, a tubulous compound flower. Tubulous boiler, a steam boiler composed chiefly of tubes containing water and surrounded by flame and hot gases; -- sometimes distinguished from tubular boiler. 

TUBULURE:  A short tubular opening at the top of a retort, or at the top or side of a bottle; a tubulation. 

TUCAN:  The Mexican pocket gopher (Geomys Mexicanus). It resembles the common pocket gopher of the Western United States, but is larger. Called also tugan, and tuza. 

TUCET:  See Tucket, a steak. [Obs.] 

TUCH:  A dark-colored kind of marble; touchstone. [Obs.] Sir J. Harrington. 

TUCK:  A long, narrow sword; a rapier. [Obs.] Shak. He wore large hose, and a tuck, as it was then called, or rapier, of tremendous length. Sir W. Scot. 

TUCK:  The beat of a drum. Scot. 

TUCK:  To full, as cloth. [Prov. Eng.] 

TUCK:  To contract; to draw together. [Obs.] 

TUCK:  The part of a vessel where the ends of the bottom planks meet under the stern.  5. Food; pastry; sweetmeats. [Slang] T. Hughes. 

TUCKAHOE:  A curious vegetable production of the Southern Atlantic United States, growing under ground like a truffle and often attaining immense size. The real nature is unknown. Called also Indian bread, and Indian loaf. 

TUCKER:  A fuller. [Prov. Eng.] 

TUCKER:  To tire; to weary; -- usually with out. [Colloq. U. S.] 

TUCKET:  A slight flourish on a trumpet; a fanfare. [Obs.] Tucket sonance, the sound of the tucket. [Obs.] Let the trumpets sound The tucket sonance and the note to mount. Shak. 

TUCKET:  A steak; a collop. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  TUCK-NET Tuck"-net`, n.  See Tuck, n., 2.  TUCK POINTING Tuck pointing. (Masonry)  The finishing of joints along the center lines with a narrow ridge of putty or fine lime mortar. 

TUCUM:  A fine, strong fiber obtained from the young leaves of a Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum vulgare), used for cordage, bowstrings, etc.; also, the plant yielding this fiber. Called also tecum, and tecum fiber. 

TUCUMA:  A Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum Tucuma) which furnishes an edible fruit. 

TUDOR:  Of or pertaining to a royal line of England, descended from Owen Tudor of Wales, who married the widowed queen of Henry V. The first reigning Tudor was Henry VII.; the last, Elizabeth. Tudor style (Arch.), the latest development of Gothic architecture in England, under the Tudors, characterized by flat four-centered arches, shallow moldings, and a profusion of paneling on the walls. 

TUE:  The parson bird. 

TUEFALL:  See To-fall. [Eng.]  TUE-IRON Tue"-i`ron, n.  See Tuyère.  TUE-IRONS Tue"-i`rons, n. pl.  A pair of blacksmith's tongs. 

TUESDAY:  The third day of the week, following Monday and preceding Wednesday. 

TUET:  The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] 

TUFACEOUS:  Pertaining to tufa; consisting of, or resembling, tufa. 

TUFF:  Same as Tufa. 

TUFFOON:  See Typhoon. [R.] 

TUFT:  To grow in, or form, a tuft or tufts.  TUF-TAFFETA Tuf-taf"fe*ta, n.  A silk fabric formerly in use, having a nap or pile. [Written also tuft-taffeta.] 

TUFTHUNTER:  A hanger-on to noblemen, or persons of quality, especially in English universities; a toady. See 1st Tuft, 3. [Cant, Eng.] Halliwell. 

TUFTHUNTING:  The practice of seeking after, and hanging on, noblemen, or persons of quality, especially in English universities. [Cant, Eng.] 

TUG:  A small, powerful steamboat used to tow vessels; -- called also steam tug, tugboat, and towboat.  4. A trace, or drawing strap, of a harness.  5. (Mining.)  An iron hook of a hoisting tub, to which a tackle is affixed. Tug iron, an iron hook or button to which a tug or trace may be attached, as on the shaft of a wagon. 

TUGAN:  Same as Tucan. 

TUGBOAT:  See Tug, n., 3. 

TUGGER:  One who tugs. 

TUGGINGLY:  In a tugging manner; with laborious pulling. 

TUILLE:  In plate armor, a suspended plate in from of the thigh. See Illust. of Tasses. 

TUITIONARY:  Of or pertaining to tuition.  TUKO-TUKO Tu"ko-tu*ko, n. Etym: [From the native name .] (Zoöl.)  A burrowing South American rodent (Ctenomys Braziliensis). It has small eyes and ears and a short tail. It resembles the pocket gopher in size, form, and habits, but is more nearly allied to the porcupines. [Written also tucu-tuco.]  TULA METAL Tu"la met`al.  An alloy of silver, copper, and lead made at Tula in Russia. [Written also toola metal.] 

TULE:  A large bulrush (Scirpus lacustris, and S. Tatora) growing abundantly on overflowed land in California and elsewhere. 

TULIP:  Any plant of the liliaceous genus Tulipa. Many varieties are cultivated for their beautiful, often variegated flowers. Tulip tree. (a) A large American tree bearing tuliplike flowers. See Liriodendron. (b) A West Indian malvaceous tree (Paritium, or Hibiscus, tiliaceum).  TULIP-EARED Tu"lip-eared`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having erect, pointed ears; prick-eared; -- said of certain dogs. 

TULIPIST:  A person who is especially devoted to the cultivation of tulips. Sir T. Browne. 

TULIPOMANIA:  A violent passion for the acquisition or cultivation of tulips; -- a word said by Beckman to have been coined by Menage.  Note: In Holland, in the first half of the 17th century, the cultivation of tulips became a mania. It began about the year 1634, and, like a violent epidemic, seized upon all classes of the community, leading to disasters and misery such as the records of commerce or of bankruptcies can scarcely parallel. In 1636, tulip marts had been established in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Haarlem, Leyden, and various other towns, where tulip bulbs were sold and resold in the same manner as stocks are on the Stock Exchange of London. Baird. 

TULIPOMANIAC:  One who is affected with tulipomania.  TULIP-SHELL Tu"lip-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  A large, handsomely colored, marine univalve shell (Fasciolaria tulipa) native of the Southern United States. The name is sometimes applied also to other species of Fasciolaria. 

TULIPWOOD:  The beautiful rose-colored striped wood of a Brazilian tree (Physocalymna floribunda), much used by cabinetmakers for inlaying. Queensland tulipwood, the variegated wood of an Australian sapindaceous tree (Harpullia pendula). J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 

TULL:  To allure; to tole. [Obs.] With empty hands men may no hawkes tull. Chaucer. 

TULLE:  A kind of silk lace or light netting, used for veils, etc. 

TULLIAN:  Belonging to, or in the style of, Tully (Marcus Tullius Cicero). 

TULLIBEE:  A whitefish (Coregonus tullibee) found in the Great Lakes of North America; -- called also mongrel whitefish. 

TUMBLE:  Act of tumbling, or rolling over; a fall. 

TUMBLEBUG:  See Tumbledung.  TUMBLE-DOWN Tum"ble-down`, a.  Ready to fall; dilapidated; ruinous; as, a tumble-down house. [Colloq.] 

TUMBLEDUNG:  Any one of numerous species of scaraboid beetles belonging to Scarabæus, Copris, Phanæus, and allied genera. The female lays her eggs in a globular mass of dung which she rolls by means of her hind legs to a burrow excavated in the earth in which she buries it. 

TUMBLER:  A piece attached to, or forming part of, the hammer of a gunlock, upon which the mainspring acts and in which are the notches for sear point to enter.  4. A drinking glass, without a foot or stem; -- so called because originally it had a pointed or convex base, and could not be set down with any liquor in it, thus compelling the drinker to finish his measure.  5. (Zoöl.)  A variety of the domestic pigeon remarkable for its habit of tumbling, or turning somersaults, during its flight.  6. (Zoöl.)  A breed of dogs that tumble when pursuing game. They were formerly used in hunting rabbits.  7. A kind of cart; a tumbrel. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

TUMBLERFUL:  As much as a tumbler will hold; enough to fill a tumbler. 

TUMBLEWEED:  Any plant which habitually breaks away from its roots in the autumn, and is driven by the wind, as a light, rolling mass, over the fields and prairies; as witch grass, wild indigo, Amarantus albus, etc. 

TUMBLING:  a. & vb. n. from Tumble, v. Tumbling barrel. Same as Rumble, n., 4.  -- Tumbling bay, an overfall, or weir, in a canal.  TUMBREL; TUMBRIL Tum"brel, Tum"bril n. Etym: [OF. tomberel, F. tombereau, fr. tomber to fall, to tumble; of Teutonic origin. Cf. Tumble.]  1. A cucking stool for the punishment of scolds.  2. A rough cart. Tusser. Tatler.  3. (Mil.)  A cart or carriage with two wheels, which accompanies troops or artillery, to convey the tools of pioneers, cartridges, and the like.  4. A kind of basket or cage of osiers, willows, or the like, to hold hay and other food for sheep. [Eng.] 

TUMEFACIENT:  Producing swelling; tumefying. 

TUMEFACTION:  The act or process of tumefying, swelling, or rising into a tumor; a swelling. Arbuthnot. 

TUMEFY:  To swell; to cause to swell, or puff up. To swell, tumefy, stiffen, not the diction only, but the tenor of the thought. De Quincey. 

TUMEFY:  To rise in a tumor; to swell. 

TUMESCENCE:  The act of becoming tumid; the state of being swollen; intumescence. 

TUMESCENT:  Slightly tumid; swollen, as certain moss capsules. 

TUMIDITY:  The quality or state of being tumid. 

TUMMALS:  A great quantity or heap. Weale. 

TUMOR:  A morbid swelling, prominence, or growth, on any part of the body; especially, a growth produced by deposition of new tissue; a neoplasm.  2. Affected pomp; bombast; swelling words or expressions; false magnificence or sublimity. [R.] Better, however, to be a flippant, than, by a revolting form of tumor and perplexity, to lead men into habits of intellect such as result from the modern vice of English style. De Quincey. Encysted tumor, a tumor which is inclosed in a membrane called a cyst, connected with the surrounding parts by the neighboring cellular substance.  -- Fatty tumor. See under Fatty.  -- Innocent tumor, or Benign tumor, one which does not of itself threaten life, and does not usually tend to recur after extirpation.  -- Malignant tumor, a tumor which tends continually to spread, to become generalized in different parts of the body, and to recur after extirpation, and which, if left to itself, causes death. 

TUMORED:  Distended; swelled. [R.] "His tumored breast." R. Junius. 

TUMP:  A little hillock; a knoll. Ainsworth. 

TUMPLINE:  A strap placed across a man's forehead to assist him in carrying a pack on his back. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett.  TUM-TUM Tum"-tum`, n.  A dish made in the West Indies by beating boiled plantain quite soft in a wooden mortar. 

TUMULAR:  Consisting in a heap; formed or being in a heap or hillock. Pinkerton. 

TUMULATE:  To cover, as a corpse, with a mound or tomb; to bury. [Obs.] 

TUMULATE:  To swell. [Obs.] Wilkins. 

TUMULOSE:  Tumulous. [R.] Bailey. 

TUMULOSITY:  The quality or state of being tumulous; hilliness. [R.] Bailey. 

TUMULOUS:  Full of small hills or mounds; hilly; tumulose. [R.] Bailey. 

TUMULT:  To make a tumult; to be in great commotion. [Obs.] Importuning and tumulting even to the fear of a revolt. Milton. 

TUMULTER:  A maker of tumults. [Obs.] He severely punished the tumulters. Milton. 

TUMULTUARILY:  In a tumultuary manner. 

TUMULTUARINESS:  The quality or state of being tumultuary. 

TUMULTUATE:  To make a tumult. [Obs.] "He will murmur and tumultuate." South. 

TUMULTUATION:  Irregular or disorderly movement; commotion; as, the tumultuation of the parts of a fluid. [Obs.] Boyle. 

TUMULUS:  An artificial hillock, especially one raised over a grave, particularly over the graves of persons buried in ancient times; a barrow. 

TUN:  A fermenting vat.  3. A certain measure for liquids, as for wine, equal to two pipes, four hogsheads, or 252 gallons. In different countries, the tun differs in quantity.  4. (Com.)  A weight of 2,240 pounds. See Ton. [R.]  5. An indefinite large quantity. Shak. A tun of man in thy large bulk is writ. Dryden.  6. A drunkard; -- so called humorously, or in contempt.  7. (Zoöl.)  Any shell belonging to Dolium and allied genera; -- called also tun-shell. 

TUN:  To put into tuns, or casks. Boyle. 

TUNA:  The Opuntia Tuna. See Prickly pear, under Prickly. 

TUNABLE:  Capable of being tuned, or made harmonious; hence, harmonious; musical; tuneful.  -- Tun"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Tun"a*bly, adv. And tunable as sylvan pipe or song. Milton.  TUN-BELLIED Tun"-bel`lied, a.  Having a large, protuberant belly, or one shaped like a tun; pot-bellied.  TUN-DISH Tun"-dish`, n.  A tunnel. [Obs.] Shak. 

TUNDRA:  A rolling, marshy, mossy plain of Northern Siberia. 

TUNEFUL:  Harmonious; melodious; musical; as, tuneful notes. " Tuneful birds." Milton.  -- Tune"ful*ly, adv.  -- Tune"ful*ness, n. 

TUNER:  One who tunes; especially, one whose occupation is to tune musical instruments.  TUN-GREAT Tun"-great`, a.  Having the circumference of a tun. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TUNGSTATE:  A salt of tungstic acid; a wolframate. 

TUNGSTEN:  A rare element of the chromium group found in certain minerals, as wolfram and scheelite, and isolated as a heavy steel-gray metal which is very hard and infusible. It has both acid and basic properties. When alloyed in small quantities with steel, it greatly increases its hardness. Symbol W (Wolframium). Atomic weight, 183.6. Specific gravity, 18.  2 (Min.)  Scheelite, or calcium tungstate. [Obs.] Tungsten ocher, or Tungstic ocher (Min.), tungstate. 

TUNGSTENIC:  Of or pertaining to tungsten; containing tungsten; as, tungstenic ores. [R.]  TUNGSTEN LAMP Tung"sten lamp.  An electric glow lamp having filaments of metallic tungsten. Such lamps, owing to the refractory nature of the metal, may be maintained at a very high temperature and require an expenditure of only about 1.25 watts per candle power.  TUNGSTEN STEEL Tungsten steel. (Metal.)  A steel containing a small amount of tungsten, noted for tenacity and hardness, even under a considerable degree of heat. Magnets made of it are said to be highly permanent. It often contains manganese. 

TUNGSTIC:  Of or pertaining to tungsten; derived from, or resembling, tungsten; wolframic; as, tungstic oxide. Tungstic acid, an acid of tungsten, H2WO4, analogous to sulphuric and chromic acids. 

TUNGSTITE:  The oxide of tungsten, a yellow mineral occurring in a pulverulent form. It is often associated with wolfram. 

TUNGUSES:  A group of roving Turanian tribes occupying Eastern Siberia and the Amoor valley. They resemble the Mongols. [Written also Tungooses.] 

TUNGUSIC:  Of or pertaining to the Tunguses; as, the Tungusic dialects. 

TUNHOOF:  Ground ivy; alehoof. 

TUNIC:  An under-garment worn by the ancient Romans of both sexes. It was made with or without sleeves, reached to or below the knees, and was confined at the waist by a girdle.  2. Any similar garment worm by ancient or Oriental peoples; also, a common name for various styles of loose-fitting under-garments and over-garments worn in modern times by Europeans and others.  3. (R. C. Ch.)  Same as Tunicle.  4. (Anat.)  A membrane, or layer of tissue, especially when enveloping an organ or part, as the eye.  5. (Bot.)  A natural covering; an integument; as, the tunic of a seed.  6. (Zoöl.)  See Mantle, n., 3 (a). 

TUNICARY:  One of the Tunicata. 

TUNICATA:  A grand division of the animal kingdom, intermediate, in some respects, between the invertebrates and vertebrates, and by some writers united with the latter. They were formerly classed with acephalous mollusks. The body is usually covered with a firm external tunic, consisting in part of cellulose, and having two openings, one for the entrance and one for the exit of water. The pharynx is usually dilated in the form of a sac, pierced by several series of ciliated slits, and serves as a gill.  Note: Most of the species when mature are firmly attached to foreign substances, but have free-swimming larvæ which are furnished with an elongated tail and somewhat resemble a tadpole. In this state the larva has a urochord and certain other structures resembling some embryonic vertebrates. See Ascidian, Doliolum, Salpa, Urochord, and Illust. of Social ascidian, under Social.  TUNICATE; TUNICATED Tu"ni*cate, Tu"ni*ca`ted, a. Etym: [L. tunicatus, p. p. of tunicare to clothe with a tunic, fr. tunica a tunic.]  1. (Bot.)  Covered with a tunic; covered or coated with layers; as, a tunicated bulb.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) Having a tunic, or mantle; of or pertaining to the Tunicata. (b) Having each joint buried in the preceding funnel-shaped one, as in certain antennæ of insects. 

TUNICATE:  One of the Tunicata. 

TUNICIN:  Animal cellulose; a substance present in the mantle, or tunic, of the Tunicates, which resembles, or is identical with, the cellulose of the vegetable kingdom. 

TUNICLE:  A short, close-fitting vestment worn by bishops under the dalmatic, and by subdeacons. 

TUNING:  a. & n. from Tune, v. Tuning fork (Mus.), a steel instrument consisting of two prongs and a handle, which, being struck, gives a certain fixed tone. It is used for tuning instruments, or for ascertaining the pitch of tunes. 

TUNK:  A sharp blow; a thump. [Prov. Eng. or Colloq. U. S.] 

TUNKER:  Same as Dunker. 

TUNNAGE:  See Tonnage. 

TUNNEL:  A level passage driven across the measures, or at right angles to veins which it is desired to reach; -- distinguished from the drift, or gangway, which is led along the vein when reached by the tunnel. Tunnel head (Metal.), the top of a smelting furnace where the materials are put in.  -- Tunnel kiln, a limekiln in which coal is burned, as distinguished from a flame kiln, in which wood or peat is used.  -- Tunnel net, a net with a wide mouth at one end and narrow at the other.  -- Tunnel pit, Tunnel shaft, a pit or shaft sunk from the top of the ground to the level of a tunnel, for drawing up the earth and stones, for ventilation, lighting, and the like. 

TUNNEL:  To catch in a tunnel net.  3. To make an opening, or a passageway, through or under; as, to tunnel a mountain; to tunnel a river.  TUNNEL STERN Tun"nel stern.  A design of motor-boat stern, for  use in shallow waters, in which the propeller is housed in a tunnel and does not extend below the greatest draft. 

TUNNY:  Any one of several species of large oceanic fishes belonging to the Mackerel family, especially the common or great tunny (Orcynus or Albacora thynnus) native of the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. It sometimes weighs a thousand pounds or more, and is extensively caught in the Mediterranean. On the American coast it is called horse mackerel. See Illust. of Horse mackerel, under Horse. [Written also thynny.]  Note: The little tunny (Gymnosarda alletterata) of the Mediterranean and North Atlantic, and the long-finned tunny, or albicore (see Albicore), are related species of smaller size. 

TUP:  A ram. 

TUPAI:  Any one of the tupaiids. 

TUPAIID:  Any one of several species of East Indian and Asiatic insectivores of the family Tupaiidæ, somewhat resembling squirrels in size and arboreal habits. The nose is long and pointed. 

TUPELO:  A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora) of the Dogwood family, having brilliant, glossy foliage and acid red berries. The wood is crossgrained and very difficult to split. Called also black gum, sour gum, and pepperidge. Largo tupelo, or Tupelo gum (Bot.), an American tree (Nyssa uniflora) with softer wood than the tupelo.  -- Sour tupelo (Bot.), the Ogeechee lime. 

TUPI:  An Indian of the tribe from which the Tupian stock takes its name, dwelling, at the advent of the Portuguese, about the mouth of the Amazon. Also, their language, which is the basis of the Indian trade language of the Amazon. 

TUPIAN:  Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of South American Indians comprising the most important Brazilian tribes. Agriculture, pottery, and stone working were practiced by them at the time of the conquest. The Tupi and the Guarani were originally the most powerful of the stock, which is hence also called Tupi-Guaranian. 

TUPMAN:  A man who breeds, or deals in tups. [Prov. Eng.] 

TUQUE:  A kind of warm cap winter wear, made from a knit bag with closed tapered ends by pushing one end within the other, thus making a conical cap of double thickness.  Picturesque fellow with tuques, red sashes, and fur coats. F. Remington. 

TUR:  The urus. 

TURACIN:  A red or crimson pigment obtained from certain feathers of several species of turacou; whence the name. It contains nearly six per cent of copper. 

TURACOU:  Any one of several species of plantain eaters of the genus Turacus, native of Africa. They are remarkable for the peculiar green and red pigments found in their feathers. [Written also touraco, and touracou.] 

TURACOVERDIN:  A green pigment found in the feathers of the turacou. See Turacin. 

TURANIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, an extensive family of languages of simple structure and low grade (called also Altaic, Ural-Altaic, and Scythian), spoken in the northern parts of Europe and Asia and Central Asia; of pertaining to, or designating, the people who speak these languages. 

TURANIAN:  One of the Turanians. 

TURATT:  The hare kangaroo. 

TURBAN:  The whole set of whorls of a spiral shell. 

TURBAND:  A turban. Balfour (Cyc. of Ind.). 

TURBANED:  Wearing a turban. " A malignant and a turbaned Turk." Shak.  TURBAN-SHELL Tur"ban-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  A sea urchin when deprived of its spines; -- popularly so called from a fancied resemblance to a turban. 

TURBANT:  A turban. [Obs.] Milton. I see the Turk nodding with his turbant. Howell.  TURBAN-TOP Tur"ban-top`, n. (Bot.)  A kind of fungus with an irregularly wrinkled, somewhat globular pileus (Helvella, or Gyromitra, esculenta.). 

TURBARY:  A right of digging turf on another man's land; also, the ground where turf is dug. 

TURBELLARIA:  An extensive group of worms which have the body covered externally with vibrating cilia. It includes the Rhabdocoela and Dendrocoela. Formerly, the nemerteans were also included in this group. 

TURBELLARIAN:  One of the Turbellaria. Also used adjectively. 

TURBETH:  See Turpeth. 

TURBIDITY:  Turbidness. 

TURBIDNESS:  The quality or state of being turbid; muddiness; foulness. 

TURBILLION:  A whirl; a vortex. Spectator. 

TURBINACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to peat, or turf; of the nature of peat, or turf; peaty; turfy. Sir. W. Scott. 

TURBINAL:  Rolled in a spiral; scroll-like; turbinate; -- applied to the thin, plicated, bony or cartilaginous plates which support the olfactory and mucous membranes of the nasal chambers.  Note: There are usually several of these plates in each nasal chamber. The upper ones, connected directly with the ethmoid bone, are called ethmoturbinals, and the lower, connected with the maxillæ, maxillo-turbinals. Incurved portions of the wall of the nasal chamber are sometimes called pseudoturbinals, to distinguish them from the true turbinals which are free outgrowths into the chambers. 

TURBINAL:  A turbinal bone or cartilage. 

TURBINATE:  To revolve or spin like a top; to whirl. [R.]  TURBINATE; TURBINATED Tur"bi*nate, Tur"bi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. turbinatus, turbo, turben, - inis, a whirl, top.]  1. Whirling in the manner of a top. A spiral and turbinated motion of the whole. Bentley.  2. (Bot.)  Shaped like a top, or inverted cone; narrow at the base, and broad at the apex; as, a turbinated ovary, pericarp, or root.  3. (Anat.)  Turbinal.  4. (Zoöl.)  Spiral with the whorls decreasing rapidly from a large base to a pointed apex; -- said of certain shells. 

TURBINATION:  The act of spinning or whirling, as a top. 

TURBINE:  A water wheel, commonly horizontal, variously constructed, but usually having a series of curved floats or buckets, against which the water acts by its impulse or reaction in flowing either outward from a central chamber, inward from an external casing, or from above downward, etc.; -- also called turbine wheel.  Note: In some turbines, the water is supplied to the wheel from below, instead of above. Turbines in which the water flows in a direction parallel to the axis are called parallel-flow turbines. 

TURBINELLA:  A genus of large marine gastropods having a thick heavy shell with conspicuous folds on the columella. 

TURBINITE:  A petrified shell resembling the genus Turbo. [R.] 

TURBINOID:  Like or pertaining to Turbo or the family Turbinidæ. 

TURBIT:  The turbot.  2. (Zoöl.)  A variety of the domestic pigeon, remarkable for its short beak. 

TURBITE:  A fossil turbo. 

TURBITH:  See Turpeth. 

TURBO:  Any one of numerous marine gastropods of the genus Turbo or family Turbinidæ, usually having a turbinate shell, pearly on the inside, and a calcareous operculum. 

TURBOGENERATOR:  An electric generator or dynamo which is combined on one frame with a turbomotor, by which it is driven. 

TURBULENCE:  The quality or state of being turbulent; a disturbed state; tumult; disorder; agitation. Shak. The years of . . . warfare and turbulence which ensued. Southey.  Syn.  -- Agitation; commotion; tumult; tumultuousness; termagance; unruliness; insubordination; rioting. 

TURBULENCY:  Turbulence. What a tale of terror now its turbulency tells! Poe. 

TURBULENTLY:  In a turbulent manner. 

TURCISM:  A mode of speech peculiar to the Turks; a Turkish idiom or expression; also, in general, a Turkish mode or custom. 

TURDIFORMES:  A division of singing birds including the thrushes and allied kinds. 

TURDUS:  A genus of singing birds including the true thrushes. 

TUREEN:  A large, deep vessel for holding soup, or other liquid food, at the table. [Written also terreen.] 

TUREENFUL:  As much as a tureen can hold; enough to fill a tureen. 

TURF:  To cover with turf or sod; as, to turf a bank, of the border of a terrace. A. Tucker. 

TURFEN:  Made of turf; covered with turf. 

TURFINESS:  Quality or state of being turfy. 

TURFING:  The act or process of providing or covering with turf. Turfing iron, or Turfing spade, an implement for cutting, and paring off, turf. 

TURFITE:  A votary of the turf, or race course; hence, sometimes, a blackleg. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 

TURFLESS:  Destitute of turf. 

TURFMAN:  A turfite; a votary of the turf, or race course. [Colloq.] 

TURGESCE:  To become turgid; to swell or be inflated. [R.]  TURGESCENCE; TURGESCENCY Tur*ges"cence, Tur*ges"cen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. turgescence. See Turgescent.]  1. The act of swelling, or the state of being swollen, or turgescent. Sir T. Browne.  2. Empty magnificence or pompousness; inflation; bombast; turgidity. Johnson. 

TURGESCENT:  Becoming turgid or inflated; swelling; growing big. 

TURGIDITY:  The quality or state of being turgid. 

TURGIDOUS:  Turgid. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

TURIO:  A shoot or sprout from the ground. Gray. 

TURIOLE:  The golden oriole. [Prov. Eng.] 

TURION:  Same as Turio. 

TURIONIFEROUS:  Producing shoots, as asparagus. Barton. 

TURK:  The plum weevil. See Curculio, and Plum weevil, under Plum. Turk's cap. (Bot.) (a) Turk's-cap lily. See under Lily. (b) A tulip. (c) A plant of the genus Melocactus; Turk's head. See Melon cactus, under Melon.  -- Turk's head. (a) (Naut.) A knot of turbanlike form worked on a rope with a piece of small line. R. H. Dana, Jr. (b) (Bot.) See Turk's cap (c) above.  -- Turk's turban (Bot.), a plant of the genus Ranunculus; crowfoot. 

TURKEIS:  Turkish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TURKEY:  An empire in the southeast of Europe and southwest of Asia. Turkey carpet, a superior kind of carpet made in Asia Minor and adjoining countries, having a deep pile and composed of pure wool with a weft of different material. It is distinguishable by its coloring and patterns from similar carpets made in India and elsewhere.  -- Turkey oak. (Bot.) See Cerris.  -- Turkey red. (a) A brilliant red imparted by madder to cottons, calicoes, etc., the fiber of which has been prepared previously with oil or other fatty matter. (b) Cloth dyed with this red.  -- Turkey sponge. (Zoöl.) See Toilet sponge, under Sponge.  -- Turkey stone, a kind of oilstone from Turkey; novaculite; -- called also Turkey oilstone. 

TURKEY:  Any large American gallinaceous bird belonging to the genus Meleagris, especially the North American wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), and the domestic turkey, which was probably derived from the Mexican wild turkey, but had been domesticated by the Indians long before the discovery of America.  Note: The Mexican wild turkey is now considered a variety of the northern species (var. Mexicana). Its tall feathers and coverts are tipped with white instead of brownish chestnut, and its flesh is white. The Central American, or ocellated, turkey (M. ocellata) is more elegantly colored than the common species. See under Ocellated. The Australian, or native, turkey is a bustard (Choriotis australis). See under Native. Turkey beard (Bot.), a name of certain American perennial liliaceous herbs of the genus Xerophyllum. They have a dense tuft of hard, narrowly linear radical leaves, and a long raceme of small whitish flowers. Also called turkey's beard.  -- Turkey berry (Bot.), a West Indian name for the fruit of certain kinds of nightshade (Solanum mammosum, and S. torvum).  -- Turkey bird (Zoöl.), the wryneck. So called because it erects and ruffles the feathers of its neck when disturbed. [Prov. Eng.] -- Turkey buzzard (Zoöl.), a black or nearly black buzzard (Cathartes aura), abundant in the Southern United States. It is so called because its naked and warty head and neck resemble those of a turkey. Its is noted for its high and graceful flight. Called also turkey vulture.  -- Turkey cock (Zoöl.), a male turkey.  -- Turkey hen (Zoöl.), a female turkey.  -- Turkey pout (Zoöl.), a young turkey. [R.] -- Turkey vulture (Zoöl.), the turkey buzzard. 

TURKEYS:  Turkish. [Obs.] Chaucer.  TURKEY-TROT Tur"key-trot`, n.  An eccentric ragtime dance, danced with the feet well apart and with a characteristic rise on the ball of the foot, followed by a drop upon the heel. The original form, owning to the positions assumed by the dancers, is offensively suggestive. Similar dances are the bunny hug and grizzly bear, so called in allusion to the movements and the positions assumed by the partners in dancing. 

TURKIC:  Turkish. 

TURKIS:  Turquois. [Obs.] 

TURKISH:  Of or pertaining to Turkey or the Turks.  -- n.  The language spoken by Turks, esp. that of the people of Turkey.  -- Turk"ish*ly, adv.  -- Turk"ish*ness, n. 

TURKISM:  Same as Turcism. 

TURKLE:  A turtle. [Obs. or Illiterate] 

TURKO:  One of a body of native Algerian tirailleurs in the French army, dressed as a Turk. [Written also Turco.]  TURKO-IRANIAN Tur`ko-I*ra"ni*an, a. (Ethnol.)  Designating, or pert. to, a mixed racial type including the Afghans, and characterized chiefly by stature above mean, fair complexion, dark, or sometimes gray, eyes, brachycephaly, and very long, prominent, and moderately narrow nose.  TURKO-IRANIAN Tur`ko-I*ra"ni*an, n.  A member of any race of the Turko-Iranian type. 

TURKOIS:  Turquoise. 

TURKOMAN:  Same as Turcoman.  TURK'S-HEAD Turk's"-head`, n.  1. (Naut.) A knot of turbanlike form  worked on a rope with a piece of small line.  2.  (a) The melon cactus. [West Indies]  (b) Any of several species of Echinocactus. [California]  3.  A long-handled, round-headed broom for sweeping ceilings, etc. [Colloq. or Dial.] 

TURLUPIN:  One of the precursors of the Reformation; -- a nickname corresponding to Lollard, etc. 

TURM:  A troop; a company. [Obs. or Poetic] Legions and cohorts, turms of horse and wings. Milton. 

TURMALINE:  See Tourmaline. 

TURMERIC:  An East Indian plant of the genus Curcuma, of the Ginger family.  2. The root or rootstock of the Curcuma longa. It is externally grayish, but internally of a deep, lively yellow or saffron color, and has a slight aromatic smell, and a bitterish, slightly acrid taste. It is used for a dye, a medicine, a condiment, and a chemical test. 

TURMERIC:  Of or pertaining to turmeric; resembling, or obtained from, turmeric; specif., designating an acid obtained by the oxidation of turmerol. Turmeric paper (Chem.), paper impregnated with turmeric and used as a test for alkaline substances, by which it is changed from yellow to brown.  -- Turmeric root. (Bot.) (a) Bloodroot. (b) Orangeroot. 

TURMEROL:  Turmeric oil, a brownish yellow, oily substance extracted from turmeric by ligroin. 

TURMOIL:  Harassing labor; trouble; molestation by tumult; disturbance; worrying confusion. And there I'll rest, as after much turmoil, A blessed soul doth in Elysium. Shak. 

TURMOIL:  To harass with commotion; to disquiet; to worry. [Obs.] It is her fatal misfortune . . . to be miserably tossed and turmoiled with these storms of affliction. Spenser. 

TURMOIL:  To be disquieted or confused; to be in commotion. [Obs.] Milton. 

TURN:  To invert a type of the same thickness, as temporary substitute for any sort which is exhausted. To turn about, to face to another quarter; to turn around.  -- To turn again, to come back after going; to return. Shak.  -- To turn against, to become unfriendly or hostile to.  -- To turn aside or away. (a) To turn from the direct course; to withdraw from a company; to deviate. (b) To depart; to remove. (c) To avert one's face.  -- To turn back, to turn so as to go in an opposite direction; to retrace one's steps.  -- To turn in. (a) To bend inward. (b) To enter for lodgings or entertainment. (c) To go to bed. [Colloq.] -- To turn into, to enter by making a turn; as, to turn into a side street.  -- To turn off, to be diverted; to deviate from a course; as, the road turns off to the left.  -- To turn on or upon. (a) To turn against; to confront in hostility or anger. (b) To reply to or retort. (c) To depend on; as, the result turns on one condition.  -- To turn out. (a) To move from its place, as a bone. (b) To bend or point outward; as, his toes turn out. (c) To rise from bed. [Colloq.] (d) To come abroad; to appear; as, not many turned out to the fire. (e) To prove in the result; to issue; to result; as, the cropsturned out poorly.  -- To turn over, to turn from side to side; to roll; to tumble.  -- To turn round. (a) To change position so as to face in another direction. (b) To change one's opinion; to change from one view or party to another.  -- To turn to, to apply one's self to; have recourse to; to refer to. "Helvicus's tables may be turned to on all occasions." Locke.  -- To turn to account, profit, advantage, or the like, to be made profitable or advantageous; to become worth the while.  -- To turn under, to bend, or be folded, downward or under.  -- To turn up. (a) To bend, or be doubled, upward. (b) To appear; to come to light; to transpire; to occur; to happen. 

TURN:  A pit sunk in some part of a drift.  13. (Eng. Law)  A court of record, held by the sheriff twice a year in every hundred within his county. Blount.  14. pl. (Med.)  Monthly courses; menses. [Colloq.]  15. (Mus.)  An embellishment or grace (marked thus, By turns. (a) One after another; alternately; in succession. (b) At intervals. "[They] feel by turns the bitter change." Milton.  -- In turn, in due order of succession.  -- To a turn, exactly; perfectly; as, done to a turn; -- a phrase alluding to the practice of cooking on a revolving spit.  -- To take turns, to alternate; to succeed one another in due order.  -- Turn and turn about, by equal alternating periods of service or duty; by turns.  -- Turn bench, a simple portable lathe, used on a bench by clock makers and watchmakers.  -- Turn buckle. See Turnbuckle, in Vocabulary.  -- Turn cap, a sort of chimney cap which turns round with the wind so as to present its opening to the leeward. G. Francis.  -- Turn of life (Med.), change of life. See under Change.  -- Turn screw, a screw driver. 

TURNBROACH:  A turnspit. [Obs.] " One that was her turnbroach." Beau. & Fl.  TURN-BUCKLE Turn"-buc`kle, n. (Mech.) (a) A loop or sleeve with a screw thread at one end and a swivel at the other, -- used for tightening a rod, stay, etc. (b) A gravitating catch, as for fastening a shutter, the end of a chain, or a hasp.  TURNBULL'S BLUE Turn"bull's blue`. (Chem.)  The double cyanide of ferrous and ferric iron, a dark blue amorphous substance having a coppery luster, used in dyeing, calico printing, etc. Cf. Prussian blue, under Prussian. 

TURNCOAT:  One who forsakes his party or his principles; a renegade; an apostate. He is a turncoat, he was not true to his profession. Bunyan. 

TURNEP:  See Turnip. [Obs.] 

TURNER:  A variety of pigeon; a tumbler. 

TURNER:  A person who practices athletic or gymnastic exercises. 

TURNERITE:  A variety of monazite. 

TURNEY:  Tourney. [Obs.] Chaucer. "In open turney." Spenser. Milton. 

TURNHALLE:  A building used as a school of gymnastics. 

TURNICIMORPHAE:  A division of birds including Turnix and allied genera, resembling quails in appearance but differing from them anatomically. 

TURNING:  The pieces, or chips, detached in the process of turning from the material turned.  6. (Mil.)  A maneuver by which an enemy or a position is turned. Turning and boring mill, a kind of lathe having a vertical spindle and horizontal face plate, for turning and boring large work.  -- Turning bridge. See the Note under Drawbridge.  -- Turning engine, an engine lathe.  -- Turning lathe, a lathe used by turners to shape their work.  -- Turning pair. See the Note under Pair, n.  -- Turning point, the point upon which a question turns, and which decides a case. 

TURNINGNESS:  The quality of turning; instability; tergiversation. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

TURNIP:  The edible, fleshy, roundish, or somewhat conical, root of a cruciferous plant (Brassica campestris, var. Napus); also, the plant itself. [Formerly written also turnep.] Swedish turnip (Bot.), a kind of turnip. See Ruta-baga.  -- Turnip flea (Zoöl.), a small flea-beetle (Haltica, or Phyllotreta, striolata), which feeds upon the turnip, and often seriously injures it. It is black with a stripe of yellow on each elytron. The name is also applied to several other small insects which are injurious to turnips. See Illust. under Flea-beetle.  -- Turnip fly. (Zoöl.) (a) The turnip flea. (b) A two-winged fly (Anthomyia radicum) whose larvæ live in the turnip root.  TURNIP-SHELL Tur"nip-shell", n. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several large, thick, spiral marine shells belonging to Rapa and allied genera, somewhat turnip-shaped. 

TURNIX:  Any one of numerous species of birds belonging to Turnix or Hemipodius and allied genera of the family Turnicidæ. These birds resemble quails and partridges in general appearance and in some of their habits, but differ in important anatomical characteristics. The hind toe is usually lacking. They are found in Asia, Africa, Southern Europe, the East Indian Islands, and esp. in Australia and adjacent islands, where they are called quails (see Quail, n., 3.). See Turnicimorphæ. 

TURNKEY:  An instrument with a hinged claw, -- used for extracting teeth with a twist.  TURN-OUT Turn"-out`, n.; pl. Turn-outs (.  1. The act of coming forth; a leaving of houses, shops, etc.; esp., a quitting of employment for the purpose of forcing increase of wages; a strike; -- opposed to lockout.  2. A short side track on a railroad, which may be occupied by one train while another is passing on a main track; a shunt; a siding; a switch.  3. That which is prominently brought forward or exhibited; hence, an equipage; as, a man with a showy carriage and horses is said to have a fine turn-out.  4. The aggregate number of persons who have come out, as from their houses, for a special purpose.  5. Net quantity of produce yielded. 

TURNOVER:  Admitting of being turned over; made to be turned over; as, a turnover collar, etc. 

TURNPIKE:  A beam filled with spikes to obstruct passage; a cheval-de- frise. [R.] Turnpike man, a man who collects tolls at a turnpike.  -- Turnpike road, a road on which turnpikes, or tollgates, are established by law, in order to collect from the users tolls to defray the cost of building, repairing, etc. 

TURNPIKE:  To form, as a road, in the manner of a turnpike road; into a rounded form, as the path of a road. Knowles. 

TURNPLATE:  A turntable.  TURN-SICK Turn"-sick`, a.  Giddy. [Obs.] Bacon.  TURN-SICK Turn"-sick`, n. (For.)  A disease with which sheep are sometimes affected; gid; sturdy. See Gid. 

TURNSPIT:  A small breed of dogs having a long body and short crooked legs. These dogs were formerly much used for turning a spit on which meat was roasting. 

TURNSTONE:  Any species of limicoline birds of the genera Strepsilas and Arenaria, allied to the plovers, especially the common American and European species (Strepsilas interpres). They are so called from their habit of turning up small stones in search of mollusks and other aquatic animals. Called also brant bird, sand runner, sea quail, sea lark, sparkback, and skirlcrake. Black turnstone, the California turnstone (Arenaria melanocephala). The adult in summer is mostly black, except some white streaks on the chest and forehead, and two white loral spots. 

TURNTABLE:  A large revolving platform, for turning railroad cars, locomotives, etc., in a different direction; -- called also turnplate. 

TURNUS:  A common, large, handsome, American swallowtail butterfly, now regarded as one of the forms of Papilio, or Jasoniades, glaucus. The wings are yellow, margined and barred with black, and with an orange- red spot near the posterior angle of the hind wings. Called also tiger swallowtail. See Illust. under Swallowtail. 

TURNVEREIN:  A company or association of gymnasts and athletes. 

TURONIAN:  One of the subdivisions into which the Upper Cretaceous formation of Europe is divided. 

TURPENTINE:  A semifluid or fluid oleoresin, primarily the exudation of the terebinth, or turpentine, tree (Pistacia Terebinthus), a native of the Mediterranean region. It is also obtained from many coniferous trees, especially species of pine, larch, and fir.  Note: There are many varieties of turpentine. Chian turpentine is produced in small quantities by the turpentine tree (Pistacia Terebinthus). Venice, Swiss, or larch turpentine, is obtained from Larix Europæa. It is a clear, colorless balsam, having a tendency to solidify. Canada turpentine, or Canada balsam, is the purest of all the pine turpentines (see under Balsam). The Carpathian and Hungarian varieties are derived from Pinus Cembra and Pinus Mugho. Carolina turpentine, the most abundant kind, comes from the long-leaved pine (Pinus palustris). Strasburg turpentine is from the silver fir (Abies pectinata). Oil of turpentine (Chem.), a colorless oily hydrocarbon, C10H16, of a pleasant aromatic odor, obtained by the distillation of crude turpentine. It is used in making varnishes, in medicine, etc. It is the type of the terpenes and is related to cymene. Called also terebenthene, terpene, etc.  -- Turpentine moth (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small tortricid moths whose larvæ eat the tender shoots of pine and fir trees, causing an exudation of pitch or resin.  -- Turpentine tree (Bot.), the terebinth tree, the original source of turpentine. See Turpentine, above.  TURPENTINE STATE Tur"pen*tine State.  North Carolina; -- a nickname alluding to its extensive production of turpentine. 

TURPETH:  The root of Ipomoea Turpethum, a plant of Ceylon, Malabar, and Australia, formerly used in medicine as a purgative; -- sometimes called vegetable turpeth.  2. (Chem.)  A heavy yellow powder, Hg3O2SO4, which consists of a basic mercuric sulphate; -- called also turpeth mineral. 

TURPIN:  A land tortoise. [Obs.] 

TURPITUDE:  Inherent baseness or vileness of principle, words, or actions; shameful wickedness; depravity. Shak.  TURQUOISE; TURQUOIS Tur*quoise", Tur*quois", n. Etym: [F. turquoise; cf. Pr. & Sp. turquesa, It. turchese, turchina, LL. turchesius, turchina; -- so called because first brought from Turkey. See 1st Turkey.] (Min.)  A hydrous phosphate of alumina containing a little copper; calaite. It has a blue, or bluish green, color, and usually occurs in reniform masses with a botryoidal surface. [Formerly written also turcois, and turkois.]  Note: Turquoise is susceptible of a high polish, and when of a bright blue color is much esteemed as a gem. The finest specimens come from Persia. It is also found in New Mexico and Arizona, and is regarded as identical with the chalchihuitl of the Mexicans. 

TURQUOISE:  Having a fine light blue color, like that of choice mineral turquoise. 

TURREL:  A certain tool used by coopers. Sherwood. 

TURRET:  A little tower, frequently a merely ornamental structure at one of the angles of a larger structure.  2. (Anc. Mil.)  A movable building, of a square form, consisting of ten or even twenty stories and sometimes one hundred and twenty cubits high, usually moved on wheels, and employed in approaching a fortified place, for carrying soldiers, engines, ladders, casting bridges, and other necessaries.  3. (Mil.)  A revolving tower constructed of thick iron plates, within which cannon are mounted. Turrets are used on vessels of war and on land.  4. (Railroads)  The elevated central portion of the roof of a passenger car. Its sides are pierced for light and ventilation. Turret clock, a large clock adapted for an elevated position, as in the tower of a church.  -- Turret head (Mach.), a vertical cylindrical revolving tool holder for bringing different tools into action successively in a machine, as in a lathe.  -- Turret lathe, a turning lathe having a turret head.  -- Turret ship, an ironclad war vessel, with low sides, on which heavy guns are mounted within one or more iron turrets, which may be rotated, so that the guns may be made to bear in any required direction.  TURRET DECK Tur"ret deck.  A narrow superstructure running from stem to stern on the upper deck of a steam cargo vessel having a rounded gunwale and sides curved inward convexly. 

TURRETED:  A whaleback steamer with a hatch coaming, usually about seven feet high, extending almost continuously fore and aft. 

TURRIBANT:  A turban. [Obs.] With hundred turrets like a turribant. Spenser. 

TURRICAL:  Of or pertaining to a turret, or tower; resembling a tower.  TURRICULATE; TURRICULATED Tur*ric"u*late, Tur*ric"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. turricula small tower, turret.]  Furnished with, or formed like, a small turret or turrets; somewhat turreted. 

TURRILITE:  Any fossil ammonite of the genus Turrilites. The shell forms an open spiral with the later whorls separate. 

TURRITELLA:  Any spiral marine gastropod belonging to Turritella and allied genera. These mollusks have an elongated, turreted shell, composed of many whorls. They have a rounded aperture, and a horny multispiral operculum. 

TURRITELLOID:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the turritellas. 

TURTLE:  The turtledove. 

TURTLE:  Any one of the numerous species of Testudinata, especially a sea turtle, or chelonian.  Note: In the United States the land and fresh-water tortoises are also called turtles.  2. (Printing)  The curved plate in which the form is held in a type-revolving cylinder press. Alligator turtle, Box turtle, etc. See under Alligator, Box, etc.  -- green turtle (Zoöl.), a marine turtle of the genus Chelonia, having usually a smooth greenish or olive-colored shell. It is highly valued for the delicacy of its flesh, which is used especially for turtle soup. Two distinct species or varieties are known; one of which (Chelonia Midas) inhabits the warm part of the Atlantic Ocean, and sometimes weighs eight hundred pounds or more; the other (C. virgata) inhabits the Pacific Ocean. Both species are similar in habits and feed principally on seaweed and other marine plants, especially the turtle grass.  -- Turtle cowrie (Zoöl.), a large, handsome cowrie (Cypræa testudinaria); the turtle-shell; so called because of its fancied resemblance to a tortoise in color and form.  -- Turtle grass (Bot.), a marine plant (Thalassia testudinum) with grasslike leaves, common about the West Indies.  -- Turtle shell, tortoise shell. See under Tortoise. 

TURTLEDOVE:  Any one of numerous species of pigeons belonging to Turtur and allied genera, native of various parts of the Old World; especially, the common European species (Turtur vulgaris), which is noted for its plaintive note, affectionate disposition, and devotion to its mate.  Note: The South African turtledove (T. albiventris), and the ashy turtledove of India (T. rubicolus), are similar to the European species in their habits.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of pigeons more or less resembling the true turtledoves, as the American mourning dove (see under Dove), and the Australian turtledove (Stictopelia cuneata).  Note: The turtledove of the Scriptures is probably Turtur risorius, a species which is still plentiful in Egypt and other Eastern countries. It is closely allied to the European turtledove.  TURTLE-FOOTED Tur"tle-foot`ed, a.  Slow-footed. [R.] "Turtle-footed Peace." Ford. 

TURTLEHEAD:  An American perennial herb (Chelone glabra) having white flowers shaped like the head of a turtle. Called also snakehead, shell flower, and balmony.  TURTLE PEG Tur"tle peg.  A sharp steel spear attached to a cord, used in taking sea turtles. -- Turtle pegging. 

TURTLER:  One who catches turtles or tortoises. "The Jamaica turtlers." Dampier.  TURTLE-SHELL Tur"tle-shell`, n.  The turtle cowrie. 

TURTLING:  The act, practice, or art of catching turtles. Marryat. 

TURVES:  pl. of Turf. 

TUSCAN:  Of or pertaining to Tuscany in Italy; -- specifically designating one of the five orders of architecture recognized and described by the Italian writers of the 16th century, or characteristic of the order. The original of this order was not used by the Greeks, but by the Romans under the Empire. See Order, and Illust. of Capital. 

TUSCAN:  A native or inhabitant of Tuscany. 

TUSCARORAS:  A tribe of North American Indians formerly living on the Neuse and Tar rivers in North Carolina. They were conquered in 1713, after which the remnant of the tribe joined the Five Nations, thus forming the Six Nations. See Six Nations, under Six.  TUSCHE; TUSHE; TOUSCHE Tusch"e, n. Also Tushe, Tousche, etc.[G. tusche, fr. F. toucher to touch.]  A lithographic drawing or painting material of the same nature as lithographic ink. It is also used as a resistant in the biting-in process. 

TUSCOR:  A tush of a horse. 

TUSH:  An exclamation indicating check, rebuke, or contempt; as, tush, tush! do not speak of it. Tush, say they, how should God perceive it Bk. of Com. Prayer (Ps. lxxiii. 11). 

TUSH:  A long, pointed tooth; a tusk; -- applied especially to certain teeth of horses. 

TUSK:  Same as Torsk. 

TUSK:  One of the elongated incisor or canine teeth of the wild boar, elephant, etc.; hence, any long, protruding tooth.  2. (Zoöl.)  A toothshell, or Dentalium; -- called also tusk-shell.  3. (Carp.)  A projecting member like a tenon, and serving the same or a similar purpose, but composed of several steps, or offsets. Thus, in the illustration, a is the tusk, and each of the several parts, or offsets, is called a tooth. 

TUSK:  To bare or gnash the teeth. [Obs.] 

TUSKED:  Furnished with tusks. The tusked boar out of the wood. Milton. 

TUSKER:  An elephant having large tusks.  TUSK-SHELL Tusk"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  See 2d Tusk, n., 2. 

TUSKY:  Having tusks. "The scar indented by the tusky oar." Dryden.  TUSSAC GRASS Tus"sac grass`.  Tussock grass.  TUSSAH; TUSSEH Tus"sah Tus"seh (tus"sa), n. [Also tussa, tussar, tusser, tussur, etc.] [Prob. fr. Hind. tasar a shuttle, Skr. tasara, trasara.]  An undomesticated East Indian silkworn (Antheræa mylitta), that feeds on the leaves of the oak and other plants.  TUSSAH SILK Tus"sah silk`. Etym: [Probably fr. Hind. tasar a shuttle, Skr. tasara, trasara.] (a) A silk cloth made from the cocoons of a caterpillar other than the common silkworm, much used in Bengal and China. (b) The silk fiber itself. [Written also tusseh silk.] 

TUSSAL:  Pertaining to, or manifested by, cough. 

TUSSICULAR:  Of or pertaining to a cough. Dunglison. 

TUSSIS:  A cough. 

TUSSIVE:  Pertaining to a cough; caused by coughing. 

TUSSLE:  To struggle, as in sport; to scuffle; to struggle with. [Colloq.] 

TUSSLE:  A struggle; a scuffle. [Colloq.] 

TUSSOCK:  Same as Tussock grass, below.  3. (Zoöl.)  A caterpillar of any one of numerous species of bombycid moths. The body of these caterpillars is covered with hairs which form long tufts or brushes. Some species are very injurious to shade and fruit trees. Called also tussock caterpillar. See Orgyia. Tussock grass. (Bot.) (a) A tall, strong grass of the genus Dactylis (D. cæspitosa), valuable for fodder, introduced into Scotland from the Falkland Islands. (b) A tufted grass (Aira cæspitosa). (c) Any kind of sedge (Carex) which forms dense tufts in a wet meadow or boggy place.  -- Tussock moth (Zoöl.), the imago of any tussock caterpillar. They belong to Orgyia, Halecidota, and allied genera. 

TUSSOCKY:  Having the form of tussocks; full of, or covered with, tussocks, or tufts. 

TUSSUCK:  See Tussock. Grew. 

TUT:  Be still; hush; -- an exclamation used for checking or rebuking. 

TUTELAGE:  Having the guardianship or charge of protecting a person or a thing; guardian; protecting; as, tutelary goddesses. This, of all advantages, is the greatest . . . the most tutelary of morals. Landor. 

TUTELE:  Tutelage. [Obs.] Howell. 

TUTENAG:  Having a projecting under jaw; prognathous. [Obs.] Holland.  TUT-NOSE Tut"-nose`, n.  A snub nose. [Prov. Eng.] 

TUTOR:  One who guards, protects, watches over, or has the care of, some person or thing. Specifically: -- (a) A treasurer; a keeper. "Tutour of your treasure." Piers Plowman. (b) (Civ. Law) One who has the charge of a child or pupil and his estate; a guardian. (c) A private or public teacher. (d) (Eng. Universities) An officer or member of some hall, who instructs students, and is responsible for their discipline. (e) (Am. Colleges) An instructor of a lower rank than a professor. 

TUTORAGE:  The office or occupation of a tutor; tutorship; guardianship. 

TUTORESS:  A woman who performs the duties of a tutor; an instructress. E. Moore. 

TUTORIAL:  Of or pertaining to a tutor; belonging to, or exercised by, a tutor. 

TUTORISM:  Tutorship. [R.] 

TUTORIZE:  To teach; to instruct. I . . . shall tutorize him some day. J. H. Newman. 

TUTORSHIP:  The office, duty, or care of a tutor; guardianship; tutelage. Hooker. 

TUTORY:  Tutorage. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

TUTRESS:  Tutoress. [Obs.] Selden. 

TUTRIX:  A female guardian; a tutoress. [R.] Smollett. 

TUTSAN:  A plant of the genus Hypericum (H. Androsoemum), from which a healing ointment is prepared in Spain; -- called also parkleaves. 

TUTTI:  All; -- a direction for all the singers or players to perform together. Moore (Encyc. of Music).  TUTTI-FRUTTI Tut"ti-frut`ti, n. [It., lit., all fruits.]  A confection of different kinds of preserved fruits. -- a.  Flavored with, or containing, various fruits. 

TUTTY:  A yellow or brown amorphous substance obtained as a sublimation product in the flues of smelting furnaces of zinc, and consisting of a crude zinc oxide.  TUT-WORK Tut"-work`, n. (Mining)  Work done by the piece, as in nonmetaliferous rock, the amount done being usually reckoned by the fathom. Tomlinson.  TUT-WORKMAN Tut"-work`man, n.; pl. Tut-workmen (. (Mining)  One who does tut-work. Tomlinson. 

TUUM:  Lit., thine; that which is thine; -- used in meum and tuum. See 2d Meum.  TU-WHIT; TU-WHOO Tu-whit", Tu-whoo", n. & interj.  Words imitative of the notes of the owl. Thy tu-whits are lulled, I wot, Thy tu-whoos of yesternight. Tennyson.  TUXEDO COAT; TUXEDO Tux*e"do coat`, or Tux*e"do, n.  A kind of black coat for evening dress made without skirts; -- so named after a fashionable country club at Tuxedo Park, New York. [U. S.] 

TUYERE:  A nozzle, mouthpiece, or fixture through which the blast is delivered to the interior of a blast furnace, or to the fire of a forge. [Corruptly written also tweer, and twier.] Tuyère arch, the embrasure, in the wall of a blast furnace through which the tuyère enters. 

TUZ:  A lock or tuft of hair. [Obs.] Dryden. 

TUZA:  The tucan.  TWADDELL; TWADDELL'S HYDROMETER Twad"dell, n., Twad"dell's hy*drom"e*ter. [After one Twaddell, its inventor.]  A form of hydrometer for liquids heavier than water, graduated with an arbitrary scale such that the readings when multiplied by .005 and added to unity give the specific gravity. 

TWADDLE:  To talk a weak and silly manner, like one whose faculties are decayed; to prate; to prattle. Stanyhurst. 

TWADDLE:  Silly talk; gabble; fustian. I have put in this chapter on fighting . . . because of the cant and twaddle that's talked of boxing and fighting with fists now-a-days. T. Hughes. 

TWADDLER:  One who prates in a weak and silly manner, like one whose faculties are decayed. 

TWADDLING:  a. & n. from Twaddle, v. 

TWADDY:  Idle trifling; twaddle. 

TWAGGER:  A lamb. [Prov. Eng.] 

TWAIN:  Two;- nearly obsolete in common discourse, but used in poetry and burlesque. "Children twain." Chaucer. And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Matt. v. 41. In twain, in halves; into two parts; asunder. When old winder split the rocks in twain. Dryden. -- Twain cloud. (Meteor.) Same as Cumulo-stratus. 

TWAITE:  A European shad; -- called also twaite shad. See Shad. 

TWAITE:  A piece of cleared ground. See Thwaite. 

TWANG:  A tang. See Tang a state. [R.] 

TWANG:  To sound with a quick, harsh noise; to make the sound of a tense string pulled and suddenly let go; as, the bowstring twanged. 

TWANG:  To make to sound, as by pulling a tense string and letting it go suddenly. Sounds the tough horn, and twangs the quivering string. Pope. 

TWANGLE:  To twang. While the twangling violin Struck up with Soldier-laddie. Tennyson. 

TWANK:  To cause to make a sharp twanging sound; to twang, or twangle. Addison. 

TWANKAY:  See Note under Tea, n., 1.  'T WAS 'T was.  A contraction of it was. 

TWATTLE:  To prate; to talk much and idly; to gabble; to chatter; to twaddle; as, a twattling gossip. L'Estrange. 

TWATTLE:  To make much of, as a domestic animal; to pet. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

TWATTLE:  Act of prating; idle talk; twaddle. 

TWATTLER:  One who twattles; a twaddler. 

TWAY:  Two; twain. [Obs.] Spenser. 

TWAYBLADE:  Any one of several orchidaceous plants which have only two leaves, as the species of Listera and of Liparis. [Written also twyblade.] 

TWEAG:  To tweak. [Obs.]  TWEAG; TWEAGUE Tweag, Tweague, n.  A pinching condition; perplexity; trouble; distress. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] This put the old fellow in a rare tweague. Arbuthnot. 

TWEAK:  To pinch and pull with a sudden jerk and twist; to twitch; as, to tweak the nose. Shak. 

TWEED:  A soft and flexible fabric for men's wear, made wholly of wool except in some inferior kinds, the wool being dyed, usually in two colors, before weaving. 

TWEEDLE:  Two things practically alike; -- a phrase coined by John Byrom (1692-1793) in his satire "On the Feuds between Handel and Bononcini." 

TWEEL:  See Twill. 

TWEER:  Same as Tuyère.  TWEESE; TWEEZE Tweese, Tweeze, n. Etym: [OE. tweeze, tweese, fr. F. étuis, pl. of étui a case, sheath, box; probably of Teutonic origin; cf. MNG. stuche a wide sleeve in which articles could be carried, OHG. stuhha, G. stauche a short and narrow muff. Cf Etui, Tweezers.]  A surgeon's case of instruments. Howell. 

TWEEZERS:  Small pinchers used to pluck out hairs, and for other purposes. 

TWELFTH:  An interval comprising an octave and a fifth.  TWELFTH-CAKE Twelfth" -- cake`, n.  An ornamented cake distributed among friends or visitors on the festival of Twelfth-night.  TWELFTH-DAY Twelfth"-day`, n.  See Twelfthtide.  TWELFTH-NIGHT Twelfth"-night`, n.  The evening of Epiphany, or the twelfth day after Christmas, observed as a festival by various churches.  TWELFTH-SECOND Twelfth"-sec`ond, n. (Physics)  A unit for the measurement of small intervals of time, such that 1012 (ten trillion) of these units make one second. 

TWELFTHTIDE:  The twelfth day after Christmas; Epiphany; -- called also Twelfth-day. 

TWELVE:  One more that eleven; two and ten; twice six; a dozen. Twelve- men's morris. See the Note under Morris.  -- Twelve Tables. (Rom. Antiq.) See under Table. 

TWELVEMO:  See Duodecimo. 

TWELVEMONTH:  A year which consists of twelve calendar months. I shall laugh at this a twelvemonth hence. Shak. 

TWELVEPENCE:  A shilling sterling, being about twenty-four cents. 

TWELVEPENNY:  , Sold for a shilling; worth or costing a shilling. 

TWELVESCORE:  Twelve times twenty; two hundred and forty. 

TWENTYFOLD:  Twenty times as many.  TWENTY-FOURMO Twen`ty-four"mo, a.  Having twenty-four leaves to a sheet; as, a twenty-fourmo form, book, leaf, size, etc.  -- n.  A book composed of sheets, each of which is folded into twenty- four leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book whose sheets are so folded; -- usually written 24mo, or 24º. 

TWEY:  Two. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TWEYFOLD:  Twofold. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

TWIBILLED:  Armed or provided with a twibil or twibils. 

TWIDDLE:  To touch lightly, or play with; to tweedle; to twirl; as, to twiddle one's thumbs; to twiddle a watch key. [Written also twidle.] Thackeray. 

TWIDDLE:  To play with anything; hence, to be busy about trifles. Halliwell. 

TWIFALLOW:  To plow, or fallow, a second time (land that has been once fallowed). 

TWIFOLD:  Twofold; double. [Obs.] 

TWIG:  To twitch; to pull; to tweak. [Obs. or Scot.] 

TWIG:  A small shoot or branch of a tree or other plant, of no definite length or size. The Britons had boats made of willow twigs, covered on the outside with hides. Sir T. Raleigh. Twig borer (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small beetles which bore into twigs of shrubs and trees, as the apple-tree twig borer (Amphicerus bicaudatus).  -- Twig girdler. (Zoöl.) See Girdler, 3.  -- Twig rush (Bot.), any rushlike plant of the genus Cladium having hard, and sometimes prickly-edged, leaves or stalks. See Saw grass, under Saw. 

TWIG:  To beat with twigs. 

TWIGGEN:  Made of twigs; wicker. [Obs.] 

TWIGGER:  A fornicator. [Eng.] Halliwell. 

TWIGGY:  Of or pertaining to a twig or twigs; like a twig or twigs; full of twigs; abounding with shoots. " Twiggy trees." Evelyn. 

TWIGHT:  To twit. [Obs.] Spenser. 

TWIGHT:  p. p. of Twitch. Chaucer. 

TWIGHTE:  imp. of Twitch. Chaucer. 

TWIGLESS:  Having no twigs. 

TWIGSOME:  Full of, or abounding in, twigs; twiggy. [R.] " Twigsome trees." Dickens. 

TWILL:  To weave, as cloth, so as to produce the appearance of diagonal lines or ribs on the surface. 

TWILL:  A quill, or spool, for yarn. 

TWILLY:  A machine for cleansing or loosening wool by the action of a revolving cylinder covered with long iron spikes or teeth; a willy or willying machine; -- called also twilly devil, and devil. See Devil, n., 6, and Willy. Tomlinson. 

TWILT:  A quilt. [Prov. Eng.] 

TWIN:  Double; consisting of two similar and corresponding parts.  4. (Crystallog.)  Composed of parts united according to some definite law of twinning. See Twin, n., 4. Twin boat, or Twin ship (Naut.), a vessel whose deck and upper works rest on two parallel hulls.  -- Twin crystal. See Twin, n., 4.  -- Twin flower (Bot.), a delicate evergreen plant (Linnæa borealis) of northern climates, which has pretty, fragrant, pendulous flowers borne in pairs on a slender stalk.  -- Twin-screw steamer, a steam vessel propelled by two screws, one on either side of the plane of the keel. 

TWIN:  A sign and constellation of the zodiac; Gemini. See Gemini.  3. A person or thing that closely resembles another.  4. (Crystallog.)  A compound crystal composed of two or more crystals, or parts of crystals, in reversed position with reference to each other.  Note: The relative position of the parts of a twin may be explained by supposing one part to be revolved 180º about a certain axis (called the twinning axis), this axis being normal to a plane (called the twinning plane) which is usually one of the fundamental planes of the crystal. This revolution brings the two parts into parallel position, or vice versa. A contact twin is one in which the parts are united by a plane surface, called the composition face, which is usually the same as the twinning plane. A penetration twin is one in which the parts interpenetrate each other, often very irregularly. Twins are also called, according to form, cruciform, geniculated, etc. 

TWIN:  To depart from a place or thing. [Obs.] "Ere that we farther twin." Chaucer. 

TWINBORN:  Born at the same birth. 

TWINER:  Any plant which twines about a support. 

TWINGE:  To have a sudden, sharp, local pain, like a twitch; to suffer a keen, darting, or shooting pain; as, the side twinges. 

TWINING:  Winding around something; twisting; embracing; climbing by winding about a support; as, the hop is a twinning plant. 

TWINING:  The act of one who, or that which, twines; (Bot.) the act of climbing spirally. 

TWINK:  To twinkle. [Obs.] 

TWINK:  The chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.] 

TWINKLER:  One who, or that which, twinkles, or winks; a winker; an eye. 

TWINLEAF:  See Jeffersonia. 

TWINLIKE:  Closely resembling; being a counterpart.  -- Twin"like`ness, n. 

TWINLING:  A young or little twin, especially a twin lamb. 

TWINNED:  Composed of parts united according to a law of twinning. See Twin, n., 4. 

TWINNER:  One who gives birth to twins; a breeder of twins. Tusser. 

TWINNING:  The assemblage of two or more crystals, or parts of crystals, in reversed position with reference to each other in accordance with some definite law; also, rarely, in artificial twinning (accomplished for example by pressure), the process by which this reversal is brought about. Polysynthetic twinning, repeated twinning of crystal lamellæ, as that of the triclinic feldspars.  -- Repeated twinning, twinning of more than two crystals, or parts of crystals.  -- Twinning axis, Twinning plane. See the Note under Twin, n. 

TWINTER:  A domestic animal two winters old. [Prov. Eng.] 

TWIRE:  A twisted filament; a thread. [Obs.] Locke. 

TWIRE:  To sing, or twitter. [Obs.] Chaucer.  TWIRE-PIPE Twire"-pipe`, n.  A vagabond musician. [Obs.] You are an ass, a twire-pipe. Beau. & Fl. You looked like Twire-pipe, the taborer. Chapman. 

TWIRL:  To move or turn round rapidly; to whirl round; to move and turn rapidly with the fingers. See ruddy maids, Some taught with dexterous hand to twirl the wheel. Dodsley. No more beneath soft eve's consenting star Fandango twirls his jocund castanet. Byron. 

TWIRL:  To revolve with velocity; to be whirled round rapidly. 

TWIST:  A material for gun barrels, consisting of iron and steel twisted and welded together; as, Damascus twist. (h) (Firearms & Ord.) The spiral course of the rifling of a gun barrel or a cannon. (i) A beverage made of brandy and gin. [Slang]  4. Etym: [OE.; -- so called as being a two-forked branch. See Twist, v. t.]  A twig. [Obs.] Chaucer. Fairfax. Gain twist, or Gaining twist (Firearms), twist of which the pitch is less, and the inclination greater, at the muzzle than at the breech.  -- Twist drill, a drill the body of which is twisted like that of an auger. See Illust. of Drill.  -- Uniform twist (Firearms), a twist of which the spiral course has an equal pitch throughout. 

TWISTE:  imp. of Twist. Chaucer. 

TWISTED:  Contorted; crooked spirally; subjected to torsion; hence, perverted. Twisted curve (Geom.), a curve of double curvature. See Plane curve, under Curve.  -- Twisted surface (Geom.), a surface described by a straight line moving according to any law whatever, yet so that the consecutive positions of the line shall not be in one plane; a warped surface. 

TWISTER:  A girder. Craig.  4. (Man.)  The inner part of the thigh, the proper place to rest upon when on horseback. Craig. 

TWISTICAL:  Crooked; tortuous; hence, perverse; unfair; dishonest. [Slang, U. S.] Bartlett. 

TWISTING:  a. & n. from Twist. Twisting pair. (Kinematics) See under Pair, n., 7. 

TWIT:  To vex by bringing to notice, or reminding of, a fault, defect, misfortune, or the like; to revile; to reproach; to upbraid; to taunt; as, he twitted his friend of falsehood. This these scoffers twitted the Christian with. Tillotson. Æsop minds men of their errors, without twitting them for what is amiss. L'Estrange. 

TWITCH:  To pull with a sudden jerk; to pluck with a short, quick motion; to snatch; as, to twitch one by the sleeve; to twitch a thing out of another's hand; to twitch off clusters of grapes. Thrice they twitched the diamond in her ear. Pope. 

TWITCH:  A stick with a hole in one end through which passes a loop, which can be drawn tightly over the upper lip or an ear of a horse. By twisting the stick the compression is made sufficiently painful to keep the animal quiet during a slight surgical operation. J. H. Walsh. 

TWITCHER:  One who, or that which, twitches.  TWITCH GRASS Twitch" grass`. (Bot.)  See Quitch grass. 

TWITLARK:  The meadow pipit. [Prov. Eng.] 

TWITTER:  One who twits, or reproaches; an upbraider. 

TWITTER:  To have a slight trembling of the nerves; to be excited or agitated. 

TWITTER:  To utter with a twitter. Cowper. 

TWITTINGLY:  In a twitting manner; with upbraiding.  TWITTLE-TWATTLE Twit"tle-twat`tle, n. Etym: [See Twattle.]  Tattle; gabble. L'Estrange.  'TWIXT 'Twixt.  An abbreviation of Betwixt, used in poetry, or in colloquial language.  'TWIXT-BRAIN 'Twixt"-brain`, n. (Anat.)  The thalamen 

TWO:  One and one; twice one. "Two great lights." Gen. i. 16. "Two black clouds." Milton.  Note: Two is often joined with other words, forming compounds signifying divided into, consisting of, or having, two parts, divisions, organs, or the like; as two-bladed, two-celled, two-eared, two-flowered, twohand, two-headed, two-horse, two-leafed or two- leaved, two-legged, two-lobed, two-masted, two-named, two-part, two- petaled, two-pronged, two-seeded, two-sided, two-story, two-stringed, two-foothed, two-valved, two-winged, and the like. One or two, a phrase often used indefinitely for a small number. 

TWO:  Having two distinct capsules; bicapsular.  TWO-CLEFT Two"-cleft`, a. (Bot.)  Divided about half way from the border to the base into two segments; bifid.  TWO-CYCLE Two"-cy`cle, n. (Thermodynamics)  A two-stroke cycle for an internal-combustion engine. --Two"- cy`cle, a.  TWO-DECKER Two"-deck`er, n.  A vessel of war carrying guns on two decks.  TWO-EDGED Two"-edged`, a.  Having two edges, or edges on both sides; as, a two-edged sword. 

TWOFOLD:  Double; duplicate; multiplied by two; as, a twofold nature; a twofold sense; a twofold argument. 

TWOFOLD:  In a double degree; doubly.  TWO-FOOT Two"-foot`, a.  Measuring two feet; two feet long, thick, or wide; as, a two- foot rule.  TWO-FORKED Two"-forked`, a.  Divided into two parts, somewhat after the manner of a fork; dichotomous.  TWO-HAND Two"-hand`, a.  Employing two hangs; as, the two-hand alphabet. See Dactylology.  TWO-HANDED Two"-hand`ed, a.  1. Having two hands; -- often used as an epithet equivalent to large, stout, strong, or powerful. "Two-handed sway." Milton.  2. Used with both hands; as, a two-nanded sword. That two-handed engine [the sword]. Milton.  3. Using either hand equally well; ambidextrous.  TWO-LIPPED Two"-lipped`, a.  1. Having two lips.  2. (Bot.)  Divided in such a manner as to resemble the two lips when the mouth is more or less open; bilabiate.  TWO-NAME Two"-name`, a. (Banking)  Having or bearing two names; as, two-name paper, that is, negotiable paper on which at least two persons are severally liable as separate makers, or, usually, one as maker and one as indorser. [Colloq.]  TWO-PARTED Two"-part`ed, a. (Biol.)  Divided from the border to the base into two distinct parts; bipartite.  TWO-PARTED Two"-part`ed, a. (Bot.)  Divided from the border to the base into two distinct parts; bipartite. 

TWOPENCE:  A small coin, and money of account, in England, equivalent to two pennies, -- minted to a fixed annual amount, for almsgiving by the sovereign on Maundy Thursday. 

TWOPENNY:  Of the value of twopence.  TWO-PHASE; TWO-PHASER Two"-phase`, a., Two"-phas`er, n. (Elec.)  Same as Diphase, Diphaser.  TWO-PLY Two"-ply`, a.  1. Consisting of two thicknesses, as cloth; double.  2. Woven double, as cloth or carpeting, by incorporating two sets of warp thread and two of weft.  TWO-PORT Two"-port`, a.  Having two ports; specif.: Designating a type of two-cycle internal-combustion engine in which the admission of the mixture to the crank case is through a suction valve.  TWO-RANKED Two"-ranked`, a. (Bot.)  Alternately disposed on exactly opposite sides of the stem so as to from two ranks; distichous.  TWO-SIDED Two"-sid`ed, a.  1. Having two sides only; hence, double-faced; hypocritical.  2. (Biol.)  Symmetrical.  TWO-SPEED Two"-speed`, a.  Adapted for producing or for receiving either of two speeds; -- said of a power-transmitting device.  TWO-STEP Two"-step`, n.  A kind of round dance in march or polka time; also, a piece of music for this dance. [U. S.]  TWO-THROW Two"-throw`, a. (Mach.)  (a) Capable of being thrown or cranked in two directions, usually opposite to one another; as, a two-throw crank; a two-throw switch.  (b) Having two crank set near together and opposite to one another; as, a two-throw crank shaft.  TWO-TONGUED Two"-tongued`, a.  Double-tongued; deceitful. Sandys.  TWO-TO-ONE Two"-to-one", a. (Mach.)  Designating, or pert. to, a gear for reducing or increasing a velocity ratio two to one.  TWO-WAY Two"-way`, a. (Pipe Fitting)  Serving to connect at will one pipe or channel with either of two others; as, a two-way cock. 

TWYBLADE:  See Twayblade.  TY-ALL Ty"-all`, n.  Something serving to tie or secure. [Obs.] Latimer.  TYBURN TICKET Ty"burn tick`et. Etym: [So called in allusion to Tyburn, formerly a place of execution in England.] (O. Eng. Law)  A certificate given to one who prosecutes a felon to conviction, exempting him from certain parish and ward offices. 

TYCHISM:  Any theory which conceives chance as an objective reality; esp., a theory of evolution which considers that variation may be purely fortuitous. 

TYCHONIC:  Of or pertaining to Tycho Brahe, or his system of astronomy. 

TYCOON:  The title by which the shogun, or former commander in chief of the Japanese army, was known to foreigners. 

TYDY:  Same as Tidy. 

TYE:  A chain or rope, one end of which passes through the mast, and is made fast to the center of a yard; the other end is attached to a tackle, by means of which the yard is hoisted or lowered.  3. (Mining)  A trough for washing ores. Knight. 

TYE:  See Tie, the proper orthography. 

TYER:  One who ties, or unites. [R.] 

TYFOON:  See Typhoon. 

TYGER:  A tiger. [Obs.] 

TYING:  p. pr. of Tie. 

TYING:  The act or process of washing ores in a buddle. 

TYKE:  See 2d Tike. 

TYLARUS:  One of the pads on the under surface of the toes of birds. 

TYLER:  See 2d Tiler. 

TYLOPODA:  A tribe of ungulates comprising the camels. 

TYLOSIS:  An intrusion of one vegetable cell into the cavity of another, sometimes forming there an irregular mass of cells. Goodale. 

TYMBAL:  A kind of kettledrum. [Written also trimbal.] A tymbal's sound were better than my voice. Prior. 

TYMP:  A hollow water-cooled iron casting in the upper part of the archway in which the dam stands. 

TYMPAN:  A panel; a tympanum.  3. (Print.)  A frame covered with parchment or cloth, on which the blank sheets are put, in order to be laid on the form to be impressed. Tympan sheet (Print.), a sheet of paper of the same size as that to be printed, pasted on the tympan, and serving as a guide in laying the sheets evenly for printing. W. Savage. 

TYMPANAL:  Tympanic. 

TYMPANIC:  Of or pertaining to the tympanum. Tympanic bone (Anat.), a bone of the skull which incloses a part of the tympanum and supports the tympanic membrane.  -- Tympanic membrane. (Anat.) See the Note under Ear. 

TYMPANIC:  The tympanic bone. 

TYMPANIST:  One who beats a drum. [R.] 

TYMPANITES:  A flatulent distention of the belly; tympany. 

TYMPANITIC:  Of, pertaining to, or affected with, tympanites. 

TYMPANITIS:  Inflammation of the lining membrane of the middle ear. 

TYMPANIZE:  To drum. [R.] Coles. 

TYMPANIZE:  To stretch, as a skin over the head of a drum; to make into a drum or drumhead, or cause to act or sound like a drum. [Obs.] "Tympanized, as other saints of God were." Oley. 

TYMPANO:  A kettledrum; -- chiefly used in the plural to denote the kettledrums of an orchestra. See Kettledrum. [Written also timpano.]  TYMPANO- Tym"pa*no-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tympanum; as in tympanohyal, tympano-Eustachian. 

TYMPANOHYAL:  Of or pertaining to the tympanum and the hyoidean arch.  -- n.  The proximal segment in the hyoidean arch, becoming a part of the styloid process of the temporal bone in adult man. 

TYMPANUM:  One of the naked, inflatable air sacs on the neck of the prairie chicken and other species of grouse.  3. (Arch.) (a) The recessed face of a pediment within the frame made by the upper and lower cornices, being usually a triangular space or table. (b) The space within an arch, and above a lintel or a subordinate arch, spanning the opening below the arch.  4. (Mech.)  A drum-shaped wheel with spirally curved partitions by which water is raised to the axis when the wheel revolves with the lower part of the circumference submerged, -- used for raising water, as for irrigation. 

TYMPANY:  A flatulent distention of the belly; tympanites. Fuller.  2. Hence, inflation; conceit; bombast; turgidness. "Thine 's a tympany of sense." Dryden. A plethoric a tautologic tympany of sentence. De Quincey. 

TYND:  To shut; to close. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

TYNE:  To lose. [Obs. or Scot.] "His bliss gan he tyne." Piers Plowman. Sir W. Scott. 

TYNE:  To become lost; to perish. [Obs.] Spenser. 

TYNE:  A prong or point of an antler. 

TYNE:  Anxiety; tine. [Obs.] "With labor and long tyne." Spenser. 

TYNY:  Small; tiny. [Obs.] 

TYPAL:  Relating to a type or types; belonging to types; serving as a type; typical. Owen.  -TYPE -type. Etym: [See Type, n.]  A combining form signifying impressed form; stamp; print; type; typical form; representative; as in stereotype phototype, ferrotype, monotype. 

TYPE:  A general form or structure common to a number of individuals; hence, the ideal representation of a species, genus, or other group, combining the essential characteristics; an animal or plant possessing or exemplifying the essential characteristics of a species, genus, or other group. Also, a group or division of animals having a certain typical or characteristic structure of body maintained within the group. Since the time of Cuvier and Baer . . . the whole animal kingdom has been universally held to be divisible into a small number of main divisions or types. Haeckel. (b) (Fine Arts)  The original object, or class of objects, scene, face, or conception, which becomes the subject of a copy; esp., the design on the face of a medal or a coin. (c) (Chem.) A simple compound, used as a mode or pattern to which other compounds are conveniently regarded as being related, and from which they may be actually or theoretically derived.  Note: The fundamental types used to express the simplest and most essential chemical relations are hydrochloric acid, HCl; water, H2O; ammonia, NH3; and methane, CH4.  5. (Typog.) (a) A raised letter, figure, accent, or other character, cast in metal or cut in wood, used in printing. (b) Such letters or characters, in general, or the whole quantity of them used in printing, spoken of collectively; any number or mass of such letters or characters, however disposed.  Note: Type are mostly made by casting type metal in a mold, though some of the larger sizes are made from maple, mahogany, or boxwood. In the cut, a is the body; b, the face, or part from which the impression is taken; c, the shoulder, or top of the body; d, the nick (sometimes two or more are made), designed to assist the compositor in distinguishing the bottom of the face from the top; e, the groove made in the process of finishing, -- each type as cast having attached to the bottom of the body a jet, or small piece of metal (formed by the surplus metal poured into the mold), which, when broken off, leaves a roughness that requires to be removed. The fine lines at the top and bottom of a letter are technically called ceriphs, and when part of the face projects over the body, as in the letter f, the projection is called a kern. The type which compose an ordinary book font consist of Roman CAPITALS, small capitals, and lower-case letters, and Italic CAPITALS and lower-case letters, with accompanying figures, points, and reference marks, -- in all about two hundred characters. Including the various modern styles of fancy type, some three or four hundred varieties of face are made. Besides the ordinary Roman and Italic, some of the most important of the varieties are -- Old English. Black Letter. Old Style. French Elzevir. Boldface. Antique. Clarendon. Gothic. Typewriter. Script. The smallest body in common use is diamond; then follow in order of size, pearl, agate, nonpareil, minion, brevier, bourgeois (or two-line diamond), long primer (or two-line pearl), small pica (or two-line agate), pica (or two-line nonpareil), English (or two-line minion), Columbian (or two- line brevier), great primer (two-line bourgeois), paragon (or two- line long primer), double small pica (or two-line small pica), double pica (or two-line pica), double English (or two-line English), double great primer (or two-line great primer), double paragon (or two-line paragon), canon (or two-line double pica). Above this, the sizes are called five-line pica, six-line pica, seven-line pica, and so on, being made mostly of wood. The following alphabets show the different sizes up to great primer. Brilliant . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Diamond . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Pearl . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Agate . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Nonpareil . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Minion . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Brevier . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Bourgeois . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Long primer . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Small pica . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Pica . . . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz English . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Columbian . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz Great primer . . . abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz The foregoing account is conformed to the designations made use of by American type founders, but is substantially correct for England. Agate, however, is called ruby, in England, where, also, a size intermediate between nonpareil and minion is employed, called emerald. Point system of type bodies (Type Founding), a system adopted by the type founders of the United States by which the various sizes of type have been so modified and changed that each size bears an exact proportional relation to every other size. The system is a modification of a French system, and is based on the pica body. This pica body is divided into twelfths, which are termed "points," and every type body consist of a given number of these points. Many of the type founders indicate the new sizes of type by the number of points, and the old names are gradually being done away with. By the point system type founders cast type of a uniform size and height, whereas formerly fonts of pica or other type made by different founders would often vary slightly so that they could not be used together. There are no type in actual use corresponding to the smaller theoretical sizes of the point system. In some cases, as in that of ruby, the term used designates a different size from that heretofore so called. 1 American 9 Bourgeois | | 1| 2 Saxon 10 Long Primer | | 2| 3 Brilliant 11 Small Pica | | 3| | 4 Excelsior | 4| | 5 Pearl 16 Columbian | | 5| 6 Nonpareil 18 Great Primer | | 7 Minion | 8 Brevier 20 Paragon | | Diagram of the "points" by which sizes of Type are graduated in the "Point System". Type founder, one who casts or manufacture type.  -- Type foundry, Type foundery, a place for the manufacture of type.  -- Type metal, an alloy used in making type, stereotype plates, etc., and in backing up electrotype plates. It consists essentially of lead and antimony, often with a little tin, nickel, or copper.  -- Type wheel, a wheel having raised letters or characters on its periphery, and used in typewriters, printing telegraphs, etc.  -- Unity of type (Biol.), that fundamental agreement in structure which is seen in organic beings of the same class, and is quite independent of their habits of life. Darwin. 

TYPESETTER:  One who, or that which, sets type; a compositor; a machine for setting type. 

TYPESETTING:  The act or art of setting type. 

TYPEWRITE:  To write with a typewriter. [Recent] 

TYPEWRITING:  The act or art of using a typewriter; also, a print made with a typewriter. 

TYPHLITIS:  Inflammation of the cæcum. 

TYPHLOSOLE:  A fold of the wall which projects into the cavity of the intestine in bivalve mollusks, certain annelids, starfishes, and some other animals. 

TYPHOEAN:  Of or pertaining to Typhoeus (ti*fo"us), the fabled giant of Greek mythology, having a hundred heads; resembling Typhoeus.  Note: Sometimes incorrectly written and pronounced Ty-phoe''an (, or Ty-phe'' an. 

TYPHOID:  Of or pertaining to typhus; resembling typhus; of a low grade like typhus; as, typhoid symptoms. Typhoid fever, a disease formerly confounded with typhus, but essentially different from the latter. It is characterized by fever, lasting usually three or more weeks, diarrhæa with evacuations resembling pea soup in appearance, and prostration and muscular debility, gradually increasing and often becoming profound at the acme of the disease. Its local lesions are a scanty eruption of spots, resembling flea bites, on the belly, enlargement of the spleen, and ulceration of the intestines over the areas occupied by Peyer's glands. The virus, or contagion, of this fever is supposed to be a microscopic vegetable organism, or bacterium. Called also enteric fever. See Peyer's glands.  -- Typhoid state, a condition common to many diseases, characterized by profound prostration and other symptoms resembling those of typhus. 

TYPHOMALARIAL:  Pertaining to typhoid fever and malaria; as, typhomalarial fever, a form of fever having symptoms both of malarial and typhoid fever. 

TYPHOMANIA:  A low delirium common in typhus fever. 

TYPHOON:  A violent whirlwind; specifically, a violent whirlwind occurring in the Chinese seas. 

TYPHOS:  Typhus. [Obs.] 

TYPHOTOXIN:  A basic substance, C7H17NO2, formed from the growth of the typhoid bacillus on meat pulp. It induces in small animals lethargic conditions with liquid dejecta. 

TYPHOUS:  Of or pertaining to typhus; of the nature of typhus. 

TYPHUS:  A contagious continued fever lasting from two to three weeks, attended with great prostration and cerebral disorder, and marked by a copious eruption of red spots upon the body. Also called jail fever, famine fever, putrid fever, spottled fever, etc. See Jail fever, under Jail. 

TYPIC:  Typical. "Typic shades." Boyle. 

TYPICAL:  Combining or exhibiting the essential characteristics of a group; as, a typical genus.  -- Typ"ic*al*ly, adv.  -- Typ"ic*al*ness, n. 

TYPIFICATION:  The act of typifying, or representing by a figure. 

TYPIFIER:  One who, or that which, typifies. Bp. Warburton. 

TYPIFY:  To represent by an image, form, model, or resemblance. Our Savior was typified, indeed, by the goat that was slain, and the scapegoat in the wilderness. Sir T. Browne. 

TYPIST:  A person who operates a typewriting machine; a typewriter. 

TYPO:  A compositor. [Colloq.] 

TYPOCOSMY:  A representation of the world. [R.] 

TYPOGRAPH:  A machine for setting type or for casting lines of type and setting them. 

TYPOGRAPHER:  A printer. T. Warton.  TYPOGRAPHIC; TYPOGRAPHICAL Ty`po*graph"ic, Ty`po*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. typographique.]  1. Of or pertaining to the act or act of representing by types or symbols; emblematic; figurative; typical. [Obs.] Johnson.  2. Of or pertaining to typography or printing; as, the typographic art.  -- Ty`po*graph"ic*al*ly, adv. 

TYPOLITE:  A stone or fossil which has on it impressions or figures of plants and animals. 

TYPOLITHOGRAPHY:  A branch of lithography in which impressions from printers' types are transferred to stone for reproduction. -- Ty`po*lith`o*graph"ic (#), a. 

TYPOLOGY:  A discourse or treatise on types.  2. (Theol.)  The doctrine of types. 

TYPOTHETAE:  Printers; -- used in the name of an association of the master printers of the United States and Canada, called The United Typothetæ of America. 

TYRAN:  A tyrant. [Obs.] Lordly love is such a tyran fell. Spenser. 

TYRANNESS:  A female tyrant. [Obs.] "That proud tyranness." Spenser. Akenside.  TYRANNIC; TYRANNICAL Ty*ran"nic, Ty*ran"nic*al, a. Etym: [L. tyrannicus, Gr. tyrannique. See Tyrant.]  Of or pertaining to a tyrant; suiting a tyrant; unjustly severe in government; absolute; imperious; despotic; cruel; arbitrary; as, a tyrannical prince; a tyrannical master; tyrannical government. "A power tyrannical." Shak. Our sects a more tyrannic power assume. Roscommon. The oppressor ruled tyrannic where he durst. Pope. -- Ty*ran"nic*al*ly, adv.  -- Ty*ran"nic*al*ness, . 

TYRANNICIDAL:  Of or pertaining to tyrannicide, or the murder of a tyrant. Booth. 

TYRANNISH:  Like a tyrant; tyrannical. [Obs.] "The proud tyrannish Roman." Gower. 

TYRANNIZE:  To act the tyrant; to exercise arbitrary power; to rule with unjust and oppressive severity; to exercise power others not permitted by law or required by justice, or with a severity not necessary to the ends of justice and government; as, a prince will often tyrannize over his subjects; masters sometimes tyrannize over their servants or apprentices. 

TYRANNIZE:  To subject to arbitrary, oppressive, or tyrannical treatment; to oppress. 

TYRANNOUS:  Tyrannical; arbitrary; unjustly severe; despotic. Sir P. Sidney.  -- Tyr"an*nous*ly, adv. 

TYRANT:  Any one of numerous species of American clamatorial birds belonging to the family Tyrannidæ; -- called also tyrant bird.  Note: These birds are noted for their irritability and pugnacity, and for the courage with which they attack rapacious birds far exceeding them in size and strength. They are mostly plain-colored birds, but often have a bright-colored crown patch. A few species, as the scissorstail, are handsomely colored. The kingbird and pewee are familiar examples. Tyrant flycatcher (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of tyrants which have a flattened bill, toothed at the tip, and resemble the true flycatchers in habits. The Acadian flycatcher (Empidonax Acadicus) and the vermilion flycatcher (Pyrocephalus rubineus) are examples.  -- Tyrant shrike (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of American tyrants of the genus Tyrannus having a strong toothed bill and resembling the strikes in habits. The kingbird is an example. 

TYRANT:  To act like a tyrant; to play the tyrant; to tyrannical. [Obs.] Fuller. 

TYRE:  Curdled milk. [India] 

TYRE:  Attire. See 2d and 3d Tire. [Obs.] 

TYRE:  To prey. See 4th Tire. [Obs.] 

TYRIAN:  A native of Tyre. 

TYRO:  A beginner in learning; one who is in the rudiments of any branch of study; a person imperfectly acquainted with a subject; a novice. [Written also tiro.] The management of tyros of eighteen Is difficult. Cowper. 

TYROCINY:  The state of being a tyro, or beginner; apprenticeship. [Obs.] Blount. 

TYROLITE:  A translucent mineral of a green color and pearly or vitreous luster. It is a hydrous arseniate of copper. 

TYRONISM:  The state of being a tyro, or beginner. [Written also tironism.] 

TYROSIN:  A white crystalline nitrogenous substance present in small amount in the pancreas and spleen, and formed in large quantity from the decomposition of proteid matter by various means, -- as by pancreatic digestion, by putrefaction as of cheese, by the action of boiling acids, etc. Chemically, it consists of oxyphenol and amidopropionic acid, and by decomposition yields oxybenzoic acid, or some other benzol derivative. [Written also tyrosine.] 

TYROTOXICON:  A ptomaine discovered by Vaughan in putrid cheese and other dairy products, and producing symptoms similar to cholera infantum. Chemically, it appears to be related to, or identical with, diazobenzol. 

TYROTOXINE:  Same as Tyrotoxicon. 

TYSONITE:  A fluoride of the cerium metals occurring in hexagonal crystals of a pale yellow color. Cf. Fluocerite. 

TYSTIE:  The black guillemot. [Prov. Eng.] 

TYTHE:  See Tithe. 

TYTHING:  See Tithing. 

TZAR:  The emperor of Russia. See Czar.  TZARINA; TZARITZA Tza*ri"na, Tza*rit"za, n.  The empress of Russia. See Czarina. 

TZETZE:  Same as Tsetse. 

U:  U, the twenty-first letter of the English alphabet, is a cursive form of the letter V, with which it was formerly used interchangeably, both letters being then used both as vowels and consonants. U and V are now, however, differentiated, U being used only as a vowel or semivowel, and V only as a consonant. The true primary vowel sound of U, in Anglo-Saxon, was the sound which it still retains in most of the languages of Europe, that of long oo, as in tool, and short oo, as in wood, answering to the French ou in tour. Etymologically U is most closely related to o, y (vowel), w, and v; as in two, duet, dyad, twice; top, tuft; sop, sup; auspice, aviary. See V, also O and Y. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 130-144. 

UAKARI:  Same as Ouakari. 

UBEROUS:  Fruitful; copious; abundant; plentiful. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert. 

UBERTY:  Fruitfulness; copiousness; abundance; plenty. [Obs.] Florio.  UBICATION; UBIETY U`bi*ca"tion, U*bi"e*ty, n. Etym: [NL. ubicatio, ubietas, fr. L. ubi where.]  The quality or state of being in a place; local relation; position or location; whereness. [R.] Glanvill. 

UBIQUARIAN:  Ubiquitous. [R.]  UBIQUIST; UBIQUITARIAN U"bi*quist, U*biq`ui*ta"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. ubique everywhere: cf. F. ubiquiste, ubiquitaire. See Ubiquity.]   (Eccl. Hist.)  One of a school of Lutheran divines which held that the body of Christ is present everywhere, and especially in the eucharist, in virtue of his omnipresence.  Called also Ubiquitist, Ubiquitary. 

UBIQUITARINESS:  Quality or state of being ubiquitary, or ubiquitous. [R.] Fuller. 

UBIQUITARY:  Ubiquitous. Howell. 

UBIQUITARY:  A ubiquist. Bp. Hall. 

UBIQUITIST:  Same as Ubiquist. 

UBIQUITOUS:  Existing or being everywhere, or in all places, at the same time; omnipresent.  -- U*biq"ui*tous*ly, adv. In this sense is he ubiquitous. R. D. Hitchcock. 

UBIQUITY:  The doctrine, as formulated by Luther, that Christ's glorified body is omnipresent. 

UCHEES:  A tribe of North American Indians belonging to the Creek confederation. 

UCKEWALLIST:  One of a sect of rigid Anabaptists, which originated in 1637, and whose tenets were essentially the same as those of the Mennonists. In addition, however, they held that Judas and the murderers of Christ were saved. So called from the founder of the sect, Ucke Wallis, a native of Friesland. Eadie. 

UDAL:  In Shetland and Orkney, a freehold; property held by udal, or allodial, right. 

UDAL:  Allodial; -- a term used in Finland, Shetland, and Orkney. See Allodial. Burrill.  UDAL; UDALBORN; UDALER; UDALMAN U"dal, n. & a. U"dal*born`, U"dal*er, U"dal*man, etc.  Vars. of Odal, etc. Obs. exc. in Shetland and the Orkney Islands, where udal designates land held in fee simple without any charter and free of any feudal character.  UDALER; UDALMAN U"dal*er, U"dal*man, n.  In the Shetland and Orkney Islands, one who holds property by udal, or allodial, right. Sir W. Scott. 

UDDER:  The glandular organ in which milk is secreted and stored; -- popularly called the bag in cows and other quadrupeds. See Mamma. A lioness, with udders all drawn dry. Shak.  2. One of the breasts of a woman. [R.] Yon Juno of majestic size, With cowlike udders, and with oxlike eyes. Pope. 

UDDERED:  Having an udder or udders. 

UDOMETER:  A rain gauge. 

UGH:  An exclamation expressive of disgust, horror, or recoil. Its utterance is usually accompanied by a shudder. 

UGLESOME:  Ugly. [Obs.] "Such an uglesome countenance." Latimer. 

UGLIFY:  To disfigure; to make ugly. [R.] Mad. D'Arblay. 

UGLILY:  In an ugly manner; with deformity. 

UGLINESS:  The quality or state of being ugly. 

UGLY:  A shade for the face, projecting from the bonnet. [Colloq. Eng.] C. Kingsley. 

UGLY:  To make ugly. [R.] Richardson. 

UGRIAN:  A Mongolian race, ancestors of the Finns. [Written also Uigrian.] 

UGSOME:  Ugly; offensive; loathsome. [Obs.] -- Ug"some*ness, n. [Obs.] "The horror and ugsomeness of death." Latimer. 

UHLAN:  One of a kind of light cavalry of Tartaric origin, first introduced into European armies in Poland. They are armed with lances, pistols, and sabers, and are employed chiefly as skirmishers. 

UINTATHERIUM:  An extinct genus of large Eocene ungulates allied to Dinoceras. This name is sometimes used for nearly all the known species of the group. See Dinoceras. 

UITLANDER:  A foreigner; an outlander. [South Africa] 

UKASE:  In Russia, a published proclamation or imperial order, having the force of law. 

ULAN:  See Uhlan. 

ULARBURONG:  A large East Indian nocturnal tree snake (Dipsas dendrophila). It is not venomous. 

ULCER:  A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one of the natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in a constitutional disorder; a sore discharging pus. It is distinguished from an abscess, which has its beginning, at least, in the depth of the tissues.  2. Fig.: Anything that festers and corrupts like an open sore; a vice in character. Cold ulcer (Med.), an ulcer on a finger or toe, due to deficient circulation and nutrition. In such cases the extremities are cold. 

ULCER:  To ulcerate. [R.] Fuller. 

ULCERABLE:  Capable of ulcerating. 

ULCERATE:  To be formed into an ulcer; to become ulcerous. 

ULCERATE:  To affect with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers. Harvey. 

ULCERATED:  Affected with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers; as, an ulcerated sore throat. 

ULCERATION:  The process of forming an ulcer, or of becoming ulcerous; the state of being ulcerated; also, an ulcer. 

ULCERATIVE:  Of or pertaining to ulcers; as, an ulcerative process. 

ULCERED:  Ulcerous; ulcerated. 

ULCEROUS:  A little ulcer. [R.] 

ULE:  A Mexican and Central American tree (Castilloa elastica and C. Markhamiana) related to the breadfruit tree. Its milky juice contains caoutchouc. Called also ule tree. 

ULEMA:  A college or corporation in Turkey composed of the hierarchy, namely, the imams, or ministers of religion, the muftis, or doctors of law, and the cadis, or administrators of justice. 

ULEXITE:  A mineral occurring in white rounded crystalline masses. It is a hydrous borate of lime and soda.  ULIGINOSE; ULIGINOUS U*lig"i*nose`, U*lig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. uliginosus, fr. uligo, - inis, moisture, fr. uvere to be moist.]  Muddy; oozy; slimy; also, growing in muddy places. [R.] Woodward. 

ULLAGE:  The amount which a vessel, as a cask, of liquor lacks of being full; wantage; deficiency. 

ULLET:  A European owl (Syrnium aluco) of a tawny color; -- called also uluia. 

ULLMANNITE:  A brittle mineral of a steel-gray color and metallic luster, containing antimony, arsenic, sulphur, and nickel. 

ULLUCO:  See Melluc. 

ULMACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a suborder of urticaceous plants, of which the elm is the type. 

ULMATE:  A salt of ulmic acid. 

ULMIC:  Pertaining to ulmin; designating an acid obtained from ulmin. 

ULMIN:  A brown amorphous substance found in decaying vegetation. Cf. Humin. [Formerly written ulmine.] 

ULMUS:  A genus of trees including the elm. 

ULNA:  The postaxial bone of the forearm, or branchium, corresponding to the fibula of the hind limb. See Radius.  2. (O. Eng. Law)  An ell; also, a yard. Burrill. 

ULNAGE:  Measurement by the ell; alnage. 

ULNAR:  Of or pertaining to the ulna, or the elbow; as, the ulnar nerve. 

ULNARE:  One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus, which articulates with the ulna and corresponds to the cuneiform in man. 

ULODENDRON:  A genus of fossil trees. 

ULOID:  Resembling a scar; scarlike. 

ULONATA:  A division of insects nearly equivalent to the true Orthoptera. 

ULOTRICHAN:  Of or pertaining to the Ulotrichi.  -- n.  One of the Ulotrichi. 

ULOTRICHI:  The division of mankind which embraces the races having woolly or crispy hair. Cf. Leiotrichi. 

ULOTRICHOUS:  Having woolly or crispy hair; -- opposed to leiotrichous. 

ULSTER:  A long, loose overcoat, worn by men and women, originally made of frieze from Ulster, Ireland. 

ULTERIOR:  Ulterior side or part. [R.] Coleridge. 

ULTERIORLY:  More distantly or remotely. 

ULTIMA:  Most remote; furthest; final; last. Ultima ratio Etym: [L.], the last reason or argument; the last resort.  -- Ultima Thule. [L.] See Thule. 

ULTIMA:  The last syllable of a word. 

ULTIMATELY:  As a final consequence; at last; in the end; as, afflictions often tend to correct immoral habits, and ultimately prove blessings. 

ULTIMATION:  State of being ultimate; that which is ultimate, or final; ultimatum. [R.] Swift. 

ULTIMATUM:  A final proposition, concession, or condition; especially, the final propositions, conditions, or terms, offered by either of the parties in a diplomatic negotiation; the most favorable terms a negotiator can offer, the rejection of which usually puts an end to the hesitation. 

ULTIME:  Ultimate; final. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ULTIMITY:  The last stage or consequence; finality. [Obs.] Bacon. 

ULTIMO:  In the month immediately preceding the present; as, on the 1st ultimo; -- usually abbreviated to ult. Cf. Proximo. 

ULTION:  The act of taking vengeance; revenge. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  ULTRA- Ul"tra-, a.  A prefix from the Latin ultra beyond (see Ulterior), having in composition the signification beyond, on the other side, chiefly when joined with words expressing relations of place; as, ultramarine, ultramontane, ultramundane, ultratropical, etc. In other relations it has the sense of excessively, exceedingly, beyond what is common, natural, right, or proper; as, ultraconservative; ultrademocratic, ultradespotic, ultraliberal, ultraradical, etc. 

ULTRA:  Going beyond others, or beyond due limit; extreme; fanatical; uncompromising; as, an ultra reformer; ultra measures. 

ULTRA:  One who advocates extreme measures; an ultraist; an extremist; a radical. Brougham. 

ULTRAGASEOUS:  Having the properties exhibited by gases under very low pressures (one millionth of an atmosphere or less). Matter under this condition, which has been termed the fourth state of matter, is sometimes called radiant matter. 

ULTRAGE:  Outrage. [Obs.] 

ULTRAISM:  The principles of those who advocate extreme measures, as radical reform, and the like. Dr. H. More. 

ULTRAIST:  One who pushes a principle or measure to extremes; an extremist; a radical; an ultra. 

ULTRAMARINE:  Situated or being beyond the sea. Burke. 

ULTRAMARINE:  A blue pigment formerly obtained by powdering lapis lazuli, but now produced in large quantities by fusing together silica, alumina, soda, and sulphur, thus forming a glass, colored blue by the sodium polysulphides made in the fusion. Also used adjectively. Green ultramarine, a green pigment obtained as a first product in the manufacture of ultramarine, into which it is changed by subsequent treatment.  -- Ultramarine ash or ashes (Paint.), a pigment which is the residuum of lapis lazuli after the ultramarine has been extracted. It was used by the old masters as a middle or neutral tint for flesh, skies, and draperies, being of a purer and tenderer gray that produced by the mixture of more positive colors. Fairholt. 

ULTRAMONTANE:  Being beyond the mountains; specifically, being beyond the Alps, in respect to the one who speaks.  Note: This term was first applied, somewhat contemptuously, by the Italians, to the nations north of the Alps, especially the Germans and French, their painters, jurists, etc. At a later period, the French and Germans applied it to the Italians. It is now more particularly used in respect to religious matters; and ultramontane doctrines, when spoken of north of the Alps, denote the extreme views of the pope's rights and supremacy maintained by Bellarmin and other Italian writers. 

ULTRAMONTANISM:  The principles of those within the Roman Catholic Church who maintain extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy; -- so used by those living north of the Alps in reference to the Italians; -- rarely used in an opposite sense, as referring to the views of those living north of the Alps and opposed to the papal claims. Cf. Gallicanism. 

ULTRAMONTANIST:  One who upholds ultramontanism. 

ULTRAMUNDANE:  Being beyond the world, or beyond the limits of our system. Boyle. 

ULTRARED:  Situated beyond or below the red rays; as, the ultrated rays of the spectrum, which are less refrangible than the red. 

ULTRATROPICAL:  Situated beyond, or outside of, the tropics; extratropical; also, having an excessively tropical temperature; warmer than the tropics. 

ULTRAVIOLET:  Lying outside the visible spectrum at its violet end; -- said of rays more refrangible than the extreme violet rays of the spectrum.  ULTRA VIRES Ul`tra vi"res, Etym: [Law Latin, from L. prep. ultra beyond + vires, pl. of. vis strength.]  Beyond power; transcending authority; -- a phrase used frequently in relation to acts or enactments by corporations in excess of their chartered or statutory rights. 

ULTRAZODIACAL:  Outside the zodiac; being in that part of the heavens that is more than eight degrees from the ecliptic; as, ultrazodiacal planets, that is, those planets which in part of their orbits go beyond the zodiac. 

ULTRONEOUS:  Spontaneous; voluntary. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  -- Ul*tro"ne*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Ul*tro"ne*ous*ness, n. [Obs.] 

ULULA:  A genus of owls including the great gray owl (Ulula cinerea) of Arctic America, and other similar species. See Illust. of Owl. 

ULULANT:  Howling; wailing. 

ULULATE:  To howl, as a dog or a wolf; to wail; as, ululating jackals. Sir T. Herbert. 

ULULATION:  A howling, as of a dog or wolf; a wailing. He may fright others with his ululation. Wither. 

ULVA:  A genus of thin papery bright green seaweeds including the kinds called sea lettuce. 

UMBE:  About. [Obs.] Layamon. 

UMBECAST:  To cast about; to consider; to ponder. [Obs.] Sir T. Malory. 

UMBEL:  A kind of flower cluster in which the flower stalks radiate from a common point, as in the carrot and milkweed. It is simple or compound; in the latter case, each peduncle bears another little umbel, called umbellet, or umbellule. 

UMBELLAR:  Of or pertaining to an umbel; having the form of an umbel.  UMBELLATE; UMBELLATED Um"bel*late, Um"bel*la`ted, a. Etym: [NL. umbellatus.] (Bot.)  Bearing umbels; pertaining to an umbel; umbel-like; as, umbellate plants or flowers. 

UMBELLET:  A small or partial umbel; an umbellule. 

UMBELLIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, certain umbelliferous plants; as, umbellic acid. Umbellic acid. (Chem.) (a) Anisic acid. [Obs.] (b) A yellow powder obtained from umbelliferone. 

UMBELLIFER:  A plant producing an umbel or umbels. 

UMBELLIFERONE:  A tasteless white crystalline substance, C9H6O3, found in the bark of a certain plant (Daphne Mezereum), and also obtained by the distillation of certain gums from the Umbelliferæ, as galbanum, asafetida, etc. It is analogous to coumarin. Called also hydroxy- coumarin. 

UMBELLULARIA:  A genus of deep-sea alcyonaria consisting of a cluster of large flowerlike polyps situated at the summit of a long, slender stem which stands upright in the mud, supported by a bulbous base. 

UMBELLULE:  An umbellet. 

UMBER:  A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors, obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides of iron and manganese. It is commonly heated or burned before being used, and is then called burnt umber; when not heated, it is called raw umber. See Burnt umber, below.  2. An umbrere. [Obs.]  3. Etym: [F. ombre, umbre, L. umbra.] (Zoöl.)  See Grayling, 1.  4. Etym: [Cf. NL. scopus umbretta, F. ombrette; probably fr. L. umbra shade, in allusion to its dark brown color. See Umber a pigment.] (Zoöl.)  An African wading bird (Scopus umbretta) allied to the storks and herons. It is dull dusky brown, and has a large occipital crest. Called also umbrette, umbre, and umber bird. Burnt umber (Paint.), a pigment made by burning raw umber, which is changed by this process from an olive brown to a bright reddish brown.  -- Cologne, or German, umber, a brown pigment obtained from lignite. See Cologne earth. 

UMBER:  Of or pertaining to umber; resembling umber; olive-brown; dark brown; dark; dusky. Their harps are of the umber shade That hides the blush of waking day. J. R. Drake. 

UMBER:  To color with umber; to shade or darken; as, to umber over one's face. B. Jonson. 

UMBERY:  Of or pertaining to umber; like umber; as, umbery gold. 

UMBILIC:  An umbilicus. See Umbilicus, 5 (b). 

UMBILIC:  See Umbilical, 1. 

UMBILICAL:  Of or pertaining to an umbilicus, or umbilical cord; umbilic.  2. Pertaining to the center; central. [R.] De Foe. Umbilical cord. (a) (Anat.) The cord which connects the fetus with the placenta, and contains the arteries and the vein through which blood circulates between the fetus and the placenta; the navel-string. (b) (Bot.) The little stem by which the seeds are attached to the placenta; -- called also funicular cord.  -- Umbilical hernia (Med.), hernia of the bowels at the umbilicus.  -- Umbilical point (Geom.), an umbilicus. See Umbilicus, 5.  -- Umbilical region (Anat.), the middle region of the abdomen, bounded above by the epigastric region, below by the hypogastric region, and on the sides by the lumbar regions.  -- Umbilical vesicle (Anat.), a saccular appendage of the developing embryo, containing the nutritive and unsegmented part of the ovum; the yolk sac. See Illust. in Appendix.  UMBILICATE; UMBILICATED Um*bil"i*cate, Um*bil"i*ca`ted, a. Etym: [L. umbilicatus. See Umbilic.] (a) Depressed in the middle, like a navel, as a flower, fruit, or leaf; navel-shaped; having an umbilicus; as, an umbilicated smallpox vesicle. (b) (Bot.) Supported by a stalk at the central point. 

UMBILICATION:  A slight, navel-like depression, or dimpling, of the center of a rounded body; as, the umbilication of a smallpox vesicle; also, the condition of being umbilicated. 

UMBILICUS:  The depression, or mark, in the median line of the abdomen, which indicates the point where the umbilical cord separated from the fetus; the navel.  2. (Gr. & Rom. Antiq.)  An ornamented or painted ball or boss fastened at each end of the stick on which manuscripts were rolled. Dr. W. Smith.  3. (Bot.)  The hilum.  4. (Zoöl.) (a) A depression or opening in the center of the base of many spiral shells. (b) Either one of the two apertures in the calamus of a feather.  5. (Geom.) (a) One of foci of an ellipse, or other curve. [Obs.] (b) A point of a surface at which the curvatures of the normal sections are all equal to each other. A sphere may be osculatory to the surface in every direction at an umbilicus. Called also umbilic.  UMBLE PIE Um"ble pie`.  A pie made of umbles. See To eat humble pie, under Humble. 

UMBLES:  The entrails and coarser parts of a deer; hence, sometimes, entrails, in general. [Written also humbles.] Johnson. 

UMBO:  One of the lateral prominence just above the hinge of a bivalve shell.  UMBONATE; UMBONATED Um"bo*nate, Um"bo*na`ted, a. Etym: [NL. umbonatus. See Umbo.]  Having a conical or rounded projection or protuberance, like a boss. 

UMBRA:  Any one of several species of sciænoid food fishes of the genus Umbrina, especially the Mediterranean species (U. cirrhosa), which is highly esteemed as a market fish; -- called also ombre, and umbrine. Umbra tree (Bot.), a tree (Phytolacca diocia) of the same genus as pokeweed. It is native of South America, but is now grown in southern Europe. It has large dark leaves, and a somber aspect. The juice of its berries is used for coloring wine. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 

UMBRACULIFEROUS:  Bearing something like an open umbrella. 

UMBRACULIFORM:  Having the form of anything that serves to shade, as a tree top, an umbrella, and the like; specifically (Bot.), having the form of an umbrella; umbrella-shaped. 

UMBRATE:  To shade; to shadow; to foreshadow. [Obs.]  UMBRATIC; UMBRATICAL Um*brat"ic, Um*brat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. umbraticus, from umbra shade. See Umbrage.]  Of or pertaining to the shade or darkness; shadowy; unreal; secluded; retired. [R.] B. Jonson. 

UMBRATILE:  Umbratic. [R.] B. Jonson. 

UMBRATIOUS:  Suspicious; captious; disposed to take umbrage. [Obs. & R.] Sir H. Wotton. 

UMBRE:  See Umber. 

UMBREL:  An umbrella. [Obs. or Colloq.] Each of them besides bore their umbrels. Shelton. 

UMBRELLA:  The umbrellalike disk, or swimming bell, of a jellyfish.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any marine tectibranchiate gastropod of the genus Umbrella, having an umbrella-shaped shell; -- called also umbrella shell. Umbrella ant (Zoöl.), the sauba ant; -- so called because it carries bits of leaves over its back when foraging. Called also parasol ant.  -- Umbrella bird (Zoöl.), a South American bird (Cephalopterus ornatus) of the family Cotingidæ. It is black, with a large handsome crest consisting of a mass of soft, glossy blue feathers curved outward at the tips. It also has a cervical plume consisting of a long, cylindrical dermal process covered with soft hairy feathers. Called also dragoon bird.  -- Umbrella leaf (Bot.), an American perennial herb (Dyphylleia cymosa), having very large peltate and lobed radical leaves.  -- Umbrella shell. (Zoöl.) See Umbrella, 3.  -- Umbrella tree (Bot.), a kind of magnolia (M. Umbrella) with the large leaves arranged in umbrellalike clusters at the ends of the branches. It is a native of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky. Other plants in various countries are called by this name, especially a kind of screw pine (Pandanus odoratissimus).  UMBRERE; UMBRIERE Um*brere, Um*briere, n. Etym: [F. ombre a shade, L. umbra; cf. F. ombrelle a sunshade, OF. also ombrière. See Umbrella.]  In ancient armor, a visor, or projection like the peak of a cap, to which a face guard was sometimes attached. This was sometimes fixed, and sometimes moved freely upon the helmet and could be raised like the beaver. Called also umber, and umbril. [Obs.] But only vented up her umbriere. Spenser. 

UMBRETTE:  See Umber, 4. 

UMBRIFEROUS:  Casting or making a shade; umbrageous.  -- Um*brif"er*ous*ly, adv. 

UMBRIL:  A umbrere. [Obs.] 

UMBRINE:  See Umbra, 2. 

UMBROSE:  Shady; umbrageous. [Obs.] 

UMBROSITY:  The quality or state of being umbrose; shadiness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

UMHOFO:  An African two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus, or Rhinoceros, simus); -- called also chukuru, and white rhinoceros. 

UMLAUT:  The euphonic modification of a root vowel sound by the influence of a, u, or especially i, in the syllable which formerly followed.  Note: It is peculiar to the Teutonic languages, and was common in Anglo-Saxon. In German the umlauted vowels resulting from a, o, u, followed by old i, are written ä, ö, ü, or ae, oe, ue; as, männer or maenner, men, from mann, man. Examples of forms resulting from umlaut in English are geese pl. of goose, men pl. of man, etc. 

UMLAUTED:  Having the umlaut; as, umlauted vowels. There is so natural connection between umlauted forms and plurality. Earle. 

UMPIRE:  A third person, who is to decide a controversy or question submitted to arbitrators in case of their disagreement. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- Judge; arbitrator; referee. See Judge. 

UMPIRE:  To act as umpire or arbitrator. 

UMPIRESHIP:  Umpirage; arbitrament. Jewel. 

UMPRESS:  Female umpire. [R.] Marston. 

UMPTEEN:  An indefinite number, usu. more than ten and less than one hundred; a lot. Often used hyperbolically, and usually expressing the notion of more than the usual number or more than I would like; -- "I've told you umpteen times not to do that." umpteenth. Ordinal of umpteen, with corresponding signification. 

UMQUHILE:  Some time ago; formerly. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.  -- a.  Former. [Scot.]  UN- Un-. Etym: [OE. un-, on-, the unaccented form of the accented prefix and- (cf. Answer); akin to D. ont-, G. ent-, OHG. int-, Goth. and-. See Anti-.]  An inseparable verbal prefix or particle. It is prefixed: (a) To verbs to express the contrary, and not the simple negative, of the action of the verb to which it is prefixed; as in uncoil, undo, unfold. (b) To nouns to form verbs expressing privation of the thing, quality, or state expressed by the noun, or separation from it; as in unchild, unsex. Sometimes particles and participial adjectives formed with this prefix coincide in form with compounds of the negative prefix un- (see 2d Un-); as in undone (from undo), meaning unfastened, ruined; and undone (from 2d un- and done) meaning not done, not finished. Un- is sometimes used with an intensive force merely; as in unloose.  Note: Compounds of this prefix are given in full in their proper order in the Vocabulary.  UN- Un-. Etym: [OE. & AS. un-; akin to OFries. un-, D. on-, OS., OHG., & G. un-, Icel. o-, u-, Sw. o-, Dan. u-, W. an-, L. in-, Gr. an-, a-. *193. Cf. A- not In- not, No, adv.]  An inseparable prefix, or particle, signifying not; in-; non-. In- is prefixed mostly to words of Latin origin, or else to words formed by Latin suffixes; un- is of much wider application, and is attached at will to almost any adjective, or participle used adjectively, or adverb, from which it may be desired to form a corresponding negative adjective or adverb, and is also, but less freely, prefixed to nouns. Un- sometimes has merely an intensive force; as in unmerciless, unremorseless. I.  Un- is prefixed to adjectives, or to words used adjectively. Specifically: -- (a) To adjectives, to denote the absence of the quality designated by the adjective; as, ------ and the like.  (b) To past particles, or to adjectives formed after the analogy of past particles, to indicate the absence of the condition or state expressed by them; as, -Unabolishable Unabsolvable Unabsurd Unabundant Unaccordant Unadoptable Unadventurous Unaffable Unaffectionate Unafraid Unalliable Unallowablew Unalterable Unambiguous Unambitious Unamendable Un-American Unamusive Unangular Unanxious Unapocryphal Unapostolic Unapparent Unappeasable Unapplausive Unappreciable Unapprehensible Unapprehensive Unapproachable Unartificial Unartistic Unassailable Unattainable Unattentive Unauthentic Unavailable Unbailable Unbearable Unbeautiful Unbeliefful Unbelievable Unbeneficial Unbenevolent Unblamable Unblemishable Unblissful Unboastful Unbold Unbookish Unbounteous Unbribable Unbrotherly Unburdensome Unbusinesslike Unbusy Uncandid Uncanonical Uncaptious Uncareful Uncelestial Unceremonious Unchallengeable Unchangeable Unchary Unchastisable Uncheerful  ---- and the like.  (c) To present particles which come from intransitive verbs, or are themselves employed as adjectives, to mark the absence of the activity, disposition, or condition implied by the participle; as, -- --- and the like.  Note: The above classes of words are unlimited in extent, and such compounds may be formed by any writer or speaker at will from almost all the adjectives or participles in the language, excepting those which have a recognized and usual negative correspondent with the prefix -in. No attempt will be made, therefore, to define them all in this Dictionary; many will be omitted from its Vocabulary which are negations of the simple word, and are readily explained by prefixing a not to the latter. Derivatives of these words in -ly and -ness will also, for the most part, be omitted for the same or similar reasons. There will be inserted as separate articles with definitions, the following: --1. Those which have acquired an opposed or contrary, instead of a merely negative, meaning; as, unfriendly, ungraceful, unpalatable, unquiet, and the like; or else an intensive sense more than a prefixed not would express; as, unending, unparalleled, undisciplined, undoubted, unsafe, and the like. 2. Those which have the value of independent words, inasmuch as the simple words are either not used at all, or are rarely, or at least much less frequently, used; as, unavoidable, unconscionable, undeniable, unspeakable, unprecedented, unruly, and the like; or inasmuch as they are used in a different sense from the usual meaning of the primitive, or especially in one of the significations of the latter; as, unaccountable, unalloyed, unbelieving, unpretending, unreserved, and the like; or inasmuch as they are so frequently and familiarly used that they are hardly felt to be of negative origin; as, uncertain, uneven, and the like. 3. Those which are anomalous, provincial, or, for some other reason, not desirable to be used, and are so indicated; as, unpure for impure, unsatisfaction for dissatisfaction, unexpressible for inexpressible, and the like. II.  Un- is prefixed to nouns to express the absence of, or the contrary of, that which the noun signifies; as, unbelief, unfaith, unhealth, unrest, untruth, and the like.  Note: Compounds of this last class are given in full in their proper order in the Vocabulary. 

UNABILITY:  Inability. [Obs.] 

UNABLE:  Not able; not having sufficient strength, means, knowledge, skill, or the like; impotent' weak; helpless; incapable; -- now usually followed by an infinitive or an adverbial phrase; as, unable for work; unable to bear fatigue. Sapless age and weak unable limbs. Shak. 

UNABLED:  Disabled. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

UNABLENESS:  Inability. [Obs.] Hales.  UNA BOAT U"na boat`. (Naut.)  The English name for a catboat; -- so called because Una was the name of the first boat of this kind taken to England. D. Kemp. 

UNABRIDGED:  Not abridged, or shortened; full; complete; entire; whole. 

UNABSORBABLE:  Not absorbable; specifically (Physiol.), not capable of absorption; unable to pass by osmosis into the circulating blood; as, the unabsorbable portion of food. 

UNACCEPTABILITY:  The quality of being unacceptable; unacceptableness. 

UNACCEPTABLE:  Not acceptable; not pleasing; not welcome; unpleasant; disagreeable; displeasing; offensive.  -- Un`ac*cept"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un`ac*cept"a*bly, adv. 

UNACCESSIBLE:  Inaccessible. Herbert. 

UNACCOMPLISHED:  Not accomplished or performed; unfinished; also, deficient in accomplishment; unrefined. 

UNACCOMPLISHMENT:  The state of being unaccomplished. [Obs.] Milton. 

UNACCOUNTABILITY:  The quality or state of being unaccountable. 

UNACCURATE:  Inaccurate. Boyle. 

UNACCURATENESS:  Inaccuracy. Boyle. 

UNACQUAINTANCE:  The quality or state of being unacquainted; want of acquaintance; ignorance. He was then in happy unacquaintance with everything connected with that obnoxious cavity. Sir W. Hamilton. 

UNACQUAINTEDNESS:  Unacquaintance. Whiston. 

UNACTIVE:  Inactive; listless. [R.] While other animals unactive range. Milton. 

UNACTIVE:  To render inactive or listless. [Obs.] Fuller. 

UNACTIVENESS:  Inactivity. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  UNADMISSIBLE; UNADMITTABLE Un`ad*mis"si*ble, Un`ad*mit"ta*ble, a.  Inadmissible. [R.]  UNADULTERATE; UNADULTERATED Un`a*dul"ter*ate, Un`a*dul"ter*a`ted, a.  Not adulterated; pure. "Unadulterate air." Cowper.  -- Un`a*dul"ter*ate*ly, adv. 

UNADVISABLE:  Not advisable; inadvisable; inexpedient. Lowth.  -- Un`ad*vis"a*bly, adv. 

UNAFILED:  Undefiled. [Obs.] Gower. 

UNAIDABLE:  Incapable of being aided. "Her unaidable estate." Shak. 

UNALIENABLE:  Inalienable; as, unalienable rights. Swift.  -- Un*al"ien*a*bly, adv. 

UNALIST:  An ecclesiastical who holds but one benefice; -- distinguished from pluralist. [Eng.] V. Knox. 

UNALLIED:  Not allied; having no ally; having no connection or relation; as, unallied species or genera. 

UNALLOYED:  Not alloyed; not reduced by foreign admixture; unmixed; unqualified; pure; as, unalloyed metals; unalloyed happiness. I enjoyed unalloyed satisfaction in his company. Mitford. 

UNALMSED:  Not having received alms. [Obs. & R.] Pollock. 

UNAMBIGUITY:  Absence of ambiguity; clearness; perspicuity. 

UNAMBITION:  The absence of ambition. [R.] F. W. Newman. 

UNAMIABILITY:  The quality or state of being unamiable; moroseness. 

UNAMIABLE:  Not amiable; morose; ill-natured; repulsive.  -- Un*a"mi*a*bly, adv. 

UNANCHOR:  To loose from the anchor, as a ship. De Quincey. 

UNANELED:  Not aneled; not having received extreme unction. Shak. 

UNANIMATE:  Unanimous. [Obs.] 

UNANIMITY:  The quality or state of being unanimous. 

UNANSWERABILITY:  The quality of being unanswerable; unanswerableness. 

UNANSWERABLE:  Not answerable; irrefutable; conclusive; decisive; as, he have an unanswerable argument.  -- Un*an"swer*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*an"swer*a*bly, adv. 

UNAPPALLED:  Not appalled; not frightened; dauntless; undaunted. Milton. 

UNAPPAREL:  To divest of clothing; to strip. [Obs.] Donne. 

UNAPPLIABLE:  Inapplicable. Milton. 

UNAPPLICABLE:  Inapplicable. 

UNAPPROPRIATE:  To take from private possession; to restore to the possession or right of all; as, to unappropriate a monopoly. [R.] Milton. 

UNAQUIT:  Unrequited. [R. & Obs.] Gower. 

UNARM:  To disarm. Sir T. Browne. 

UNARM:  To puff off, or lay down, one's arms or armor. "I'll unarm again." Shak. 

UNARMED:  Having no hard and sharp projections, as spines, prickles, spurs, claws, etc. 

UNARTFUL:  Lacking art or skill; artless. Congreve.  -- Un*art"ful*ly, adv. Swift. Burke. 

UNARTISTIC:  Inartistic. 

UNASCRIED:  Not descried. [Obs.] 

UNASERVED:  Not served. [Obs.] 

UNASSENTED:  Not assented; -- said specif. of stocks or bonds the holders of which refuse to deposit them by way of assent to an agreement altering their status, as in a readjustment. 

UNASSUMING:  Not assuming; not bold or forward; not arrogant or presuming; humble; modest; retiring; as, an unassuming youth; unassuming manners. 

UNATTACHED:  Not assigned to any company or regiment.  3. (Law)  Not taken or arrested. R. Junius. 

UNATTENTIVE:  Inattentive; careless. 

UNATTIRE:  To divest of attire; to undress. 

UNAU:  The two-toed sloth (Cholopus didactylus), native of South America. It is about two feet long. Its color is a uniform grayish brown, sometimes with a reddish tint. 

UNAUDIENCED:  Not given an audience; not received or heard. 

UNAUSPICIOUS:  Inauspicious. Rowe. 

UNAUTHORIZE:  To disown the authority of; to repudiate. 

UNAVOIDABLE:  Not voidable; incapable of being made null or void. Blackstone. Unavoidable hemorrhage (Med.), hemorrhage produced by the afterbirth, or placenta, being situated over the mouth of the womb so as to require detachment before the child can be born.  -- Un`a*void"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un`a*void"a*bly, adv. 

UNAWARE:  Not aware; not noticing; giving no heed; thoughtless; inattentive. Swift. 

UNAWARE:  Unawares. [Poetic] Dryden. 

UNAWARES:  , Without design or preparation; suddenly; without premeditation, unexpectedly. "Mercies lighting unawares." J. H. Newman. Lest unawares we lose This our high place, our sanctuary, our hill. Milton. At unaware, or At unawares, unexpectedly; by surprise. He breaks at unawares upon our walks. Dryden. So we met In this old sleepy town an at unaware. R. Browning. 

UNBAG:  To pour, or take, or let go, out of a bag or bags. 

UNBALANCED:  Not adjusted; not settled; not brought to an equality of debt and credit; as, an unbalanced account; unbalanced books.  3. Being, or being thrown, out of equilibrium; hence, disordered or deranged in sense; unsteady; unsound; as, an unbalanced mind. Pope. 

UNBALLAST:  To free from ballast; to discharge ballast from. Totten. 

UNBALLAST:  Not ballasted. [Obs. & R.] Addison. 

UNBALLASTED:  Freed from ballast; having discharged ballast.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + ballasted.]  Not furnished with ballast; not kept steady by ballast; unsteady; as, unballasted vessels; unballasted wits. Unballasted by any sufficient weight of plan. De Quincey. 

UNBANED:  Wanting a band or string; unfastened. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNBANK:  To remove a bank from; to open by, or as if by, the removal of a bank. H. Taylor. 

UNBAR:  To remove a bar or bars from; to unbolt; to open; as, to unbar a gate. Heber. 

UNBARK:  To deprive of the bark; to decorticate; to strip; as, to unbark a tree. Bacon. 

UNBARK:  To cause to disembark; to land. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 

UNBARREL:  To remove or release from a barrel or barrels. 

UNBARRICADE:  To unbolt; to unbar; to open. You shall not unbarricade the door. J. Webster (1623). 

UNBARRICADOED:  Not obstructed by barricades; open; as, unbarricadoed streets. Burke. 

UNBASHFUL:  Not bashful or modest; bold; impudent; shameless. Shak. 

UNBAY:  To free from the restraint of anything that surrounds or incloses; to let loose; to open. [Obs.] I ought . . . to unbay the current of my passion. Norris. 

UNBE:  To cause not to be; to cause to be another. [Obs. & R.] How oft, with danger of the field beset, Or with home mutinies, would he unbe Himself! Old Pay. 

UNBEAR:  To remove or loose the bearing rein of (a horse). 

UNBEAT:  To deliver from the form or nature of a beast. 

UNBECOME:  To misbecome. [Obs.] Bp. Sherlock. 

UNBECOMING:  Not becoming; unsuitable; unfit; indecorous; improper. My grief lets unbecoming speeches fall. Dryden. -- Un`be*com"ing*ly, adv.  -- Un`be*com"ing*ness, n. 

UNBED:  To raise or rouse from bed. Eels unbed themselves and stir at the noise of thunder. Wa 

UNBEDINNED:  Not filled with din. 

UNBEFOOL:  To deliver from the state of a fool; to awaken the mind of; to undeceive. 

UNBEGET:  To deprive of existence. Dryden. 

UNBEGILT:  Not gilded; hence, not rewarded with gold.  UNBEGOT; UNBEGOTTEN Un`be*got", Un`be*got"ten, a. Etym: [Pref. un- not + begot, begotten.]  Not begot; not yet generated; also, having never been generated; self-existent; eternal. 

UNBEGUILE:  To set free from the influence of guile; to undeceive. "Then unbeguile thyself." Donne. 

UNBEGUN:  Not yet begun; also, existing without a beginning. 

UNBEHOVELY:  Not behooving or becoming; unseemly. [Obs. & R.] Gower. 

UNBEING:  Not existing. [Obs.] "Beings yet unbeing." Sir T. Browne. 

UNBEKNOWN:  Not known; unknown. [Colloq.] 

UNBELIEVED:  Not believed; disbelieved. 

UNBELT:  To remove or loose the belt of; to ungird. 

UNBENEVOLENCE:  Absence or want of benevolence; ill will. 

UNBENIGN:  Not benign; malignant. 

UNBENUMB:  To relieve of numbness; to restore sensation to. 

UNBEREAVEN:  Unbereft. [R.] 

UNBEREFT:  Not bereft; not taken away. 

UNBESEEM:  To be unbecoming or unsuitable to; to misbecome. 

UNBESEEMING:  Unbecoming; not befitting.  -- Un`be*seem"ing*ly, adv.  -- Un`be*seem"ing*ness, n. 

UNBESPEAK:  To unsay; hence, to annul or cancel. [Obs.] Pepys. 

UNBETHINK:  To change the mind of (one's self). [Obs.] 

UNBEWARE:  Unawares. [Obs.] Bale. 

UNBEWITCH:  To free from a spell; to disenchant. [R.] South. 

UNBIAS:  To free from bias or prejudice. Swift. 

UNBIASED:  Free from bias or prejudice; unprejudiced; impartial.  -- Un*bi"ased*ness, n.  UNBID; UNBIDDEN Un*bid", Un*bid"den, a.  1. Not bidden; not commanded. Thorns also and thistles it shall bring thee forth Unbid; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field. Milton.  2. Uninvited; as, unbidden guests. Shak.  3. Being without a prayer. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UNBIND:  To remove a band from; to set free from shackles or fastenings; to unite; to unfasten; to loose; as, unbind your fillets; to unbind a prisoner's arms; to unbind a load. 

UNBISHOP:  To deprive, as a city, of a bishop; to deprive, as a clergyman, of episcopal dignity or rights. [R.] "Then he unbishops himself." Milton. 

UNBIT:  To remove the turns of (a rope or cable) from the bits; as, to unbit a cable. Totten. 

UNBLEMISHED:  Not blemished; pure; spotless; as, an unblemished reputation or life. Addison. 

UNBLESS:  To deprive of blessings; to make wretched. [Obs.] Shak.  UNBLESSED; UNBLEST Un*blessed", Un*blest, a. Etym: [Pref. un- not + blessed, blest.]  Not blest; excluded from benediction; hence, accursed; wretched. "Unblessed enchanter." Milton. 

UNBLESTFUL:  Unblessed. [R.] Sylvester. 

UNBLIND:  To free from blindness; to give or restore sight to; to open the eyes of. [R.] J. Webster (1607). 

UNBLINDFOLD:  To free from that which blindfolds. Spenser. 

UNBLOODY:  Not bloody. Dryden. Unbloody sacrifice. (a) A sacrifice in which no victim is slain. (b) (R. C. Ch.) The Mass. 

UNBLUSHING:  Not blushing; shameless.  -- Un*blush"ing*ly, adv. 

UNBODY:  To free from the body; to disembody. Her soul unbodied of the burdenous corse. Spenser. 

UNBODY:  To leave the body; to be disembodied; -- said of the soul or spirit. [R.] Chaucer. 

UNBOLT:  To remove a bolt from; to unfasten; to unbar; to open. "He shall unbolt the gates." Shak. 

UNBOLT:  To explain or unfold a matter; to make a revelation. [Obs.] "I will unbolt to you." Shak. 

UNBONNET:  To take a bonnet from; to take off one's bonnet; to uncover; as, to unbonnet one's head. Sir W. Scott. 

UNBOOKED:  Not written in a book; unrecorded. "UnbookedEnglish life." Masson. 

UNBOOT:  To take off the boots from. 

UNBORN:  Not born; no yet brought into life; being still to appear; future. Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb. Shak. See future sons, and daughters yet unborn. Pope. 

UNBORROWED:  Not borrowed; being one's own; native; original. 

UNBOSOM:  To disclose freely; to reveal in confidence, as secrets; to confess; -- often used reflexively; as, to unbosom one's self. Milton. 

UNBOSOMER:  One who unbosoms, or discloses. [R.] "An unbosomer of secrets." Thackeray. 

UNBOTTOMED:  Deprived of a bottom.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + bottomed.]  Having no bottom; bottomless. Milton. 

UNBOUND:  imp. & p. p. of Unbind. 

UNBOUNDABLY:  Infinitely. [Obs.] I am . . . unboundably beholding to you. J. Webster (1607). 

UNBOUNDED:  Having no bound or limit; as, unbounded space; an, unbounded ambition. Addison.  -- Un*bound"ed*ly, adv.  -- Un*bound"ed*ness, n. 

UNBOW:  To unbend. [R.] Fuller. 

UNBOWED:  Not bent or arched; not bowed down. Byron. 

UNBOWEL:  To deprive of the entrails; to disembowel. Dr. H. More. 

UNBOX:  To remove from a box or boxes. 

UNBOY:  To divest of the traits of a boy. [R.] Clarendon. 

UNBRACE:  To free from tension; to relax; to loose; as, to unbrace a drum; to unbrace the nerves. Spenser. 

UNBRAID:  To separate the strands of; to undo, as a braid; to unravel; to disentangle. 

UNBREAST:  To disclose, or lay open; to unbosom. [Obs.] P. Fletcher, 

UNBREECH:  To free the breech of, as a cannon, from its fastenings or coverings. Pennant. 

UNBREWED:  Not made by brewing; unmixed; pure; genuine. [R.] Young. 

UNBRIDLE:  To free from the bridle; to set loose. 

UNBRIDLED:  Loosed from the bridle, or as from the bridle; hence, unrestrained; licentious; violent; as, unbridled passions. "Unbridled boldness." B. Jonson. Lands deluged by unbridled floods. Wordsworth. -- Un*bri"dled*ness, n. Abp. Leighton. 

UNBROKEN:  Not broken; continuous; unsubdued; as, an unbroken colt. 

UNBUCKLE:  To loose the buckles of; to unfasten; as, to unbuckle a shoe. "Unbuckle anon thy purse." Chaucer. 

UNBUILD:  To demolish; to raze. "To unbuild the city." Shak. 

UNBUNDLE:  To release, as from a bundle; to disclose. 

UNBUNG:  To remove the bung from; as, to unbung a cask. 

UNBURIABLE:  Not ready or not proper to be buried. Tennyson. 

UNBURROW:  To force from a burrow; to unearth. 

UNBURTHEN:  To unburden; to unload. 

UNBURY:  To disinter; to exhume; fig., to disclose. 

UNBUSIED:  Not required to work; unemployed; not busy. [R.] These unbusied persons can continue in this playing idleness till it become a toil. Bp. Rainbow 

UNBUTTON:  To loose the buttons of; to unfasten. 

UNBUXOM:  Disobedient. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.  -- Un*bux"om*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Un*bux"om*ness, n. [Obs.] 

UNCAGE:  To loose, or release, from, or as from, a cage.  UNCALLED-FOR Un*called"-for`, a.  Not called for; not required or needed; improper; gratuitous; wanton. 

UNCALM:  To disturb; to disquiet. Dryden. 

UNCAMP:  To break up the camp of; to dislodge from camp. [R.] If they could but now uncamp their enemies. Milton. 

UNCANNY:  Not canny; unsafe; strange; weird; ghostly. Sir W. Scott.  -- Un*can"ni*ness, n. G. Eliot. 

UNCAP:  To remove a cap or cover from. 

UNCAPABLE:  Incapable. [Obs.] "Uncapable of conviction." Locke. 

UNCAPE:  To remove a cap or cape from. [Obs.] 

UNCAPPER:  An instrument for removing an explode cap from a cartridge shell. 

UNCARDINAL:  To degrade from the cardinalship. 

UNCARED:  Not cared for; not heeded; -- with for. 

UNCARNATE:  Not fleshy; specifically, not made flesh; not incarnate. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

UNCARNATE:  To divest of flesh. 

UNCART:  To take from, or set free from, a cart; to unload. 

UNCASE:  To display, or spread to view, as a flag, or the colors of a military body. 

UNCASTLE:  To take a castle from; to turn out of a castle. 

UNCAUSED:  Having no antecedent cause; uncreated; self-existent; eternal. A. Baxter. 

UNCAUTELOUS:  Incautious. [Obs.] 

UNCAUTIOUS:  Incautious. 

UNCAUTIOUSLY:  Incautiously. 

UNCE:  A claw. [Obs.] 

UNCE:  An ounce; a small portion. [Obs.] "By unces hung his locks." Chaucer. 

UNCEASABLE:  Not capable of being ended; unceasing. [R.]  UNCENTER; UNCENTRE Un*cen"ter, Un*cen"tre, v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + center.]  To throw from its center. 

UNCENTURY:  To remove from its actual century. [R.] It has first to uncentury itself. H. Drummond. 

UNCERTAIN:  To make uncertain. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 

UNCERTAINLY:  In an uncertain manner. 

UNCESSANT:  Incessant. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.  -- Un*ces"sant*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

UNCHAIN:  To free from chains or slavery; to let loose. Prior. 

UNCHAPLAIN:  To remove from a chaplaincy. 

UNCHARIOT:  To throw out of a chariot. Pope. 

UNCHARITABLE:  Not charitable; contrary to charity; severe in judging; harsh; censorious; as, uncharitable opinions or zeal. Addison.  -- Un*char"i*ta*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*char"i*ta*bly, adv. 

UNCHARITY:  Uncharitableness. Tennyson. 'T were much uncharity in you. J. Webster. 

UNCHARM:  To release from a charm, fascination, or secret power; to disenchant. Beau. & Fl. 

UNCHARNEL:  To remove from a charnel house; to raise from the grave; to exhume. Byron. 

UNCHASTE:  Not chaste; not continent; lewd.  -- Un*chaste"ly, adv.  -- Un*chaste"ness, n. 

UNCHASTITY:  The quality or state of being unchaste; lewdness; incontinence. 

UNCHECKABLE:  Not capable of being checked or stopped. [R.] 

UNCHRISTEN:  To render unchristian. [Obs. & R.] Milton. 

UNCHRISTENED:  Not christened; as, an unchristened child. 

UNCHRISTIAN:  To make unchristian. [Obs.] South. 

UNCHRISTIANIZE:  To turn from the Christian faith; to cause to abandon the belief and profession of Christianity. 

UNCHRISTIANLY:  Unchristian. Milton. 

UNCHRISTIANLY:  In an unchristian manner. 

UNCHRISTIANNESS:  The quality or state of being unchristian. [R.] Eikon Basilike. 

UNCIA:  A twelfth part, as of the Roman as; an ounce.  2. (Alg.)  A numerical coefficient in any particular case of the binomial theorem. [Obs.] 

UNCIAL:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain style of letters used in ancient manuscripts, esp. in Greek and Latin manuscripts. The letters are somewhat rounded, and the upstrokes and downstrokes usually have a slight inclination. These letters were used as early as the 1st century b. c., and were seldom used after the 10th century a. d., being superseded by the cursive style. 

UNCIAL:  An uncial letter. 

UNCIATIM:  Ounce by ounce. 

UNCIFORM:  Having the shape of a hook; being of a curved or hooked from; hooklike. Unciform bone (Anat.), a bone of the carpus at the bases of the fourth and fifth metacarpals; the hamatum. 

UNCIFORM:  The unciform bone. See Illust. of Perissodactyla. 

UNCINATA:  A division of marine chætopod annelids which are furnished with uncini, as the serpulas and sabellas. 

UNCINATE:  Hooked; bent at the tip in the form of a hook; as, an uncinate process. 

UNCINATUM:  The unciform bone. 

UNCINUS:  One of the peculiar minute chitinous hooks found in large numbers in the tori of tubicolous annelids belonging to the Uncinata. 

UNCIPHER:  To decipher; as, to uncipher a letter. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple. 

UNCIRCUMCISED:  Not circumcised; hence, not of the Israelites. "This uncircumcised Philistine." 1 Sam. xvii. 26. 

UNCIRCUMCISION:  People not circumcised; the Gentiles. 

UNCITY:  To deprive of the rank or rights of a city. [Obs.] 

UNCIVILITY:  Incivility. [Obs.] 

UNCIVILIZATION:  The state of being uncivilized; savagery or barbarism. [R.] 

UNCIVILTY:  In an uncivil manner. 

UNCLASP:  To loose the clasp of; to open, as something that is fastened, or as with, a clasp; as, to unclasp a book; to unclasp one's heart. 

UNCLEANSABLE:  Incapable of being cleansed or cleaned. 

UNCLENCH:  Same as Unclinch. 

UNCLESHIP:  The office or position of an uncle. Lamb. 

UNCLEW:  To unwind, unfold, or untie; hence, to undo; to ruin. Shak. 

UNCLINCH:  To cause to be no longer clinched; to open; as, to unclinch the fist. [Written also unclench.] 

UNCLING:  To cease from clinging or adhering. [Obs.] Milton. 

UNCLOAK:  To remove a cloak or cover from; to deprive of a cloak or cover; to unmask; to reveal. 

UNCLOAK:  To remove, or take off, one's cloak. 

UNCLOG:  To disencumber of a clog, or of difficulties and obstructions; to free from encumbrances; to set at liberty. Shak. 

UNCLOISTER:  To release from a cloister, or from confinement or seclusion; to set free; to liberate. 

UNCLOTHE:  To strip of clothes or covering; to make naked. I. Watts. [We] do groan being burdened; not for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon. 2 Cor. v. 4. 

UNCLOTHED:  Divested or stripped of clothing. Byron.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + clothed.]  Not yet clothed; wanting clothes; naked.  -- Un*cloth"ed*ly, adv. [Obs.] Bacon. 

UNCLOUD:  To free from clouds; to unvail; to clear from obscurity, gloom, sorrow, or the like. Beau. & Fl. 

UNCLUE:  To unwind; to untangle. 

UNCLUTCH:  To disengage, as a clutch. 

UNCO:  Unknown; strange, or foreign; unusual, or surprising; distant in manner; reserved. [Scot.] 

UNCO:  In a high degree; to a great extent; greatly; very. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

UNCO:  A strange thing or person. [Scot.] 

UNCOACH:  To detach or loose from a coach. [Obs.] Chapman. 

UNCOFFLE:  To release from a coffle. 

UNCOIF:  To deprive of the coif or cap. Young. 

UNCOIL:  To unwind or open, as a coil of rope. Derham. 

UNCOLT:  To unhorse. [Obs. & R.] Shak. 

UNCOMBINE:  To separate, as substances in combination; to release from combination or union. [R.] Daniel. 

UNCOMEATABLE:  Not to be come at, or reached; inaccessible. [Colloq.] Addison. My honor is infallible and uncomeatable. Congreve. 

UNCOMELY:  Not comely.  -- adv. In an uncomely manner. 1 Cor. vii. 36. 

UNCOMMON:  Not common; unusual; infrequent; rare; hence, remarkable; strange; as, an uncommon season; an uncommon degree of cold or heat; uncommon courage.  Syn.  -- Rare; scarce; infrequent; unwonted.  -- Un*com"mon*ly, adv.  -- Un*com"mon*ness, n. 

UNCOMPLETE:  Incomplete. Pope. 

UNCOMPREHEND:  To fail to comprehend. [R.] Daniel. 

UNCOMPROMISING:  Not admitting of compromise; making no truce or concessions; obstinate; unyielding; inflexible.  -- Un*com"pro*mi`sing*ly, adv. 

UNCONCEIVABLE:  Inconceivable. [Obs.] Locke.  -- Un`con*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n. [Obs.] -- Un`con*ceiv"a*bly, adv. [Obs.] 

UNCONCERN:  Want of concern; absence of anxiety; freedom from solicitude; indifference. A listless unconcern, Cold, and averting from our neighbor's good. Thomson. 

UNCONCERNED:  Not concerned; not anxious or solicitous; easy in mind; carelessly secure; indifferent; as, to be unconcerned at what has happened; to be unconcerned about the future.  -- Un`con*cern"ed*ly, adv.  -- Un`con*cern"ed*ness, n. Happy mortals, unconcerned for more. Dryden. 

UNCONCERNING:  Not interesting of affecting; insignificant; not belonging to one. [Obs.] Addison. 

UNCONCERNMENT:  The state of being unconcerned, or of having no share or concern; unconcernedness. [Obs.] South.  UNCONCLUDENT; UNCONCLUDING Un`con*clud"ent, Un`con*clud"ing, a.  Inconclusive. [Obs.] Locke.  -- Un`con*clud"ing*ness, n. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

UNCONCLUSIVE:  Inconclusive. [Obs.] 

UNCONDITIONAL:  Not conditional limited, or conditioned; made without condition; absolute; unreserved; as, an unconditional surrender. O, pass not, Lord, an absolute decree, Or bind thy sentence unconditional. Dryden. -- Un`con*di"tion*al*ly, adv. 

UNCONDITIONED:  Not subject to condition or limitations; infinite; absolute; hence, inconceivable; incogitable. Sir W. Hamilton. The unconditioned (Metaph.), all that which is inconceivable and beyond the realm of reason; whatever is inconceivable under logical forms or relations. 

UNCONFIDENCE:  Absence of confidence; uncertainty; doubt. 

UNCONFORM:  Unlike. [Obs.] Not unconform to other shining globes. Milton. 

UNCONFORMABILITY:  Want of parallelism between one series of strata and another, especially when due to a disturbance of the position of the earlier strata before the latter were deposited. 

UNCONFORMABLE:  Not conformable; not lying in a parallel position; as, unconformable strata.  -- Un`con*form"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un`con*form"a*bly, adv. 

UNCONFORMIST:  A nonconformist. [Obs.] 

UNCONFORMITY:  Want of parallelism between strata in contact.  Note: With some authors unconformity is equivalent to unconformability; but it is often used more broadly, for example, to include the case when the parallelism of strata once conformable has been disturbed by faulting and the like. 

UNCONFOUND:  To free from a state of confusion, or of being confounded. Milton. 

UNCONFOUNDED:  Not confounded. Bp. Warburton. 

UNCONGEAL:  To thaw; to become liquid again. Tennyson. 

UNCONNING:  Not knowing; ignorant. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- n.  Ignorance. [Obs.] 

UNCONQUERABLE:  Not conquerable; indomitable.  -- Un*con"quer*a*bly, adv. 

UNCONSECRATE:  To render not sacred; to deprive of sanctity; to desecrate. [Obs.] South. 

UNCONSEQUENTIAL:  Inconsequential. Johnson. 

UNCONSIDERATE:  Inconsiderate; heedless; careless. [Obs.] Daniel.  -- Un`con*sid"er*ate*ness, n. [Obs.] Hales. 

UNCONSIDERED:  Not considered or attended to; not regarded; inconsiderable; trifling. A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles. Shak. 

UNCONSONANT:  Incongruous; inconsistent. "A thing unconsonant.' Hooker. 

UNCONSPICUOUS:  Inconspicuous. [R.] Ed. Rev. 

UNCONSTANCY:  Inconstancy. [Obs.] "The unconstancy of the foundation." Fuller. 

UNCONSTANT:  Not constant; inconstant; fickle; changeable. [Obs.] Shak.  -- Un*con"stant*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Un*con"stant*ness, n. [Obs.] 

UNCONSTITUTIONAL:  Not constitutional; not according to, or consistent with, the terms of a constitution of government; contrary to the constitution; as, an unconstitutional law, or act of an officer. Burke.  -- Un*con`sti*tu"tion*al"i*ty, n.  -- Un*con`sti*tu"tion*al-ly, adv. 

UNCONSTRAINT:  Freedom from constraint; ease. Felton. 

UNCONSUMMATE:  Not consummated; not accomplished. [Obs.] Dryden. 

UNCONTESTABLE:  Incontestable. 

UNCONTINENT:  Not continent; incontinent. Wyclif (2 Tim. iii. 3). 

UNCONTROVERSORY:  Not involving controversy. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

UNCONTROVERTIBLE:  Incontrovertible. 

UNCONTROVERTIBLY:  Incontrovertibly. 

UNCONVENIENT:  Inconvenient. Bale.  -- Un`con*ven"ient*ly, adv. Udall. 

UNCONVERSION:  The state of being unconverted; impenitence. [R.] 

UNCORD:  To release from cords; to loosen the cord or cords of; to unfasten or unbind; as, to uncord a package. 

UNCORK:  To draw the cork from; as, to uncork a bottle. 

UNCORRECT:  Incorrect. Dryden. 

UNCORRIGIBLE:  Incorrigible; not capable of correction. [Obs.] 

UNCORRUPT:  Incorrupt. 

UNCORRUPTIBLE:  Incorruptible. "The glory of the uncorruptible God." Rom. i. 23. 

UNCORRUPTION:  Incorruption. 

UNCOUPLE:  To loose, as dogs, from their couples; also, to set loose; to disconnect; to disjoin; as, to uncouple railroad cars. 

UNCOUPLE:  To roam at liberty. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNCOURTLINESS:  Absence of courtliness; rudeness; rusticity. Addison. 

UNCOUS:  Hooklike; hooked. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

UNCOVENABLE:  Not covenable; inconvenient. [Obs.] Wyclif (1 Tim. iv. 7). 

UNCOVENANTED:  Not having entered into relationship with God through the appointed means of grace; also, not promised or assured by the divine promises or conditions; as, uncovenanted mercies. 

UNCOWL:  To divest or deprive of a cowl. Pope. 

UNCREATE:  To deprive of existence; to annihilate. Who can uncreate thee, thou shalt know. Milton. 

UNCREATE:  Uncreated; self-existent. Book of Common Prayer. 

UNCREATEDNESS:  The quality or state of being uncreated. 

UNCREDIBLE:  Incredible. Bacon. 

UNCREDIT:  To cause to be disbelieved; to discredit. [Obs.] Fuller. 

UNCREDITABLE:  Discreditable. [Obs.] 

UNCROWN:  To deprive of a crown; to take the crown from; hence, to discrown; to dethrone. He hath done me wrong, And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long. Shak. 

UNCRUDDED:  Not cruddled, or curdled. [Obs.] Her breast like to a bowl of cream uncrudded. Spenser. 

UNCTIOUS:  Unctuous. [Obs.] 

UNCTUOSITY:  Quality or state of being unctuous. Sir T. Browne. 

UNCULPABLE:  Inculpable; not blameworthy. [R.] Hooker. 

UNCULT:  Not cultivated; rude; illiterate. [Obs.] 

UNCULTURE:  Want of culture. "Idleness, ill husbandry . . . unculture." Bp. Hall. 

UNCUNNING:  Ignorant. [Obs.] I am young and uncunning, as thou wost [knowest]. Chaucer. 

UNCUNNINGLY:  Ignorantly. [Obs.] 

UNCUNNINGNESS:  Ignorance. [Obs.] 

UNCURABLE:  Incurable. 

UNCURABLY:  In an uncurable manner. 

UNCURBABLE:  Not capable of being curbed. Shak. 

UNCURL:  To loose from curls, or ringlets; to straighten out, as anything curled or curly. He sheaths his paw, uncurls his angry mane. Dryden. 

UNCURL:  To become uncurled, or straight. 

UNCURRENT:  Not current. Specifically: Not passing in common payment; not receivable at par or full value; as, uncurrent notes. Shak. 

UNCURSE:  To free from a curse or an execration. Shak. 

UNCURTAIN:  To remove a curtain from; to reveal. Moore. 

UNCUS:  A hook or claw. 

UNCUSTOMABLE:  Not customable, or subject to custom duties. 

UNCUSTOMED:  Uncustomable; also, not having paid duty or customs. Smollett. 

UNCUTH:  Unknown; strange. [Obs.] -- n.  A stranger. [Obs.]  UNCUT VELVET Un*cut" vel"vet.  A fabric woven like velvet, but with the loops of the warp threads uncut. 

UNCYPHER:  See Uncipher. 

UNDAM:  To free from a dam, mound, or other obstruction. Dryden. 

UNDAMPNED:  Uncondemned. [Obs.] Wyclif (Acts xvi. 37). 

UNDATED:  Rising and falling in waves toward the margin, as a leaf; waved. 

UNDATED:  Not dated; having no date; of unknown age; as, an undated letter. 

UNDAUNTABLE:  Incapable of being daunted; intrepid; fearless; indomitable. Bp. Hall. 

UNDAUNTED:  Not daunted; not subdued or depressed by fear. Shak.  Syn.  -- Bold; fearless; brave; courageous; intrepid.  -- Un*daunt"ed*ly, adv.  -- Un*daunt"ed*ness, n. 

UNDE:  Waving or wavy; -- applied to ordinaries, or division lines. 

UNDEADLY:  Not subject to death; immortal. [Obs.] -- Un*dead"li*ness, n. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNDEAF:  To free from deafness; to cause to hear. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNDECAGON:  A figure having eleven angles and eleven sides. 

UNDECANE:  A liquid hydrocarbon, C11H24, of the methane series, found in petroleum; -- so called from its containing eleven carbon atoms in the molecule. 

UNDECEIVE:  To cause to be no longer deceived; to free from deception, fraud, fallacy, or mistake. South. 

UNDECENCY:  Indecency. [Obs.] "Decency and undecency." Jer. Taylor. 

UNDECENNARY:  Occurring once in every period of eleven years; undecennial. An undecennary account laid before Parliament. E. Stiles. 

UNDECENNIAL:  Occurring or observed every eleventh year; belonging to, or continuing, a period of eleven years; undecennary; as, an undecennial festival. 

UNDECENT:  Indecent. [Obs.] 

UNDECIDE:  To reverse or recant, as a previous decision. 

UNDECISIVE:  Indecisive. [R.] Glanvill. 

UNDECK:  To divest of ornaments. Shak. 

UNDECOLIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C11H18O2, of the propiolic acid series, obtained indirectly from undecylenic acid as a white crystalline substance. 

UNDECREED:  Not decreed.  2. Etym: [1st pref. un- + decree.]  Reversed or nullified by decree, as something previously decreed. 

UNDECYL:  The radical regarded as characteristic of undecylic acid. 

UNDECYLENIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid C11H20O2, homologous with acrylic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of castor oil. 

UNDECYLIC:  Related to, derived from, or containing, undecyl; specifically, designating that member of the fatty acids which corresponds to undecane, and is obtained as a white crystalline substance, C11H22O2. 

UNDEFATIGABLE:  Indefatigable. [Obs.] "Undefatigable pains." Camden. 

UNDEFEASIBLE:  Indefeasible. [Obs.] 

UNDEFINE:  To make indefinite; to obliterate or confuse the definition or limitations of. 

UNDEIFY:  To degrade from the state of deity; to deprive of the character or qualities of a god; to deprive of the reverence due to a god. Addison. 

UNDENIABLY:  In an undeniable manner. 

UNDEPARTABLE:  Incapable of being parted; inseparable. [Obs.] Chaucer. Wyclif. 

UNDER:  In a lower, subject, or subordinate condition; in subjection; - - used chiefly in a few idiomatic phrases; as, to bring under, to reduce to subjection; to subdue; to keep under, to keep in subjection; to control; to go under, to be unsuccessful; to fail. I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection. 1 Cor. ix. 27. The minstrel fell, but the foeman's chain Could not bring his proud soul under. Moore.  Note: Under is often used in composition with a verb to indicate lowness or inferiority in position or degree, in the act named by the verb; as, to underline; to undermine; to underprop. 

UNDER:  Lower in position, intensity, rank, or degree; subject; subordinate; -- generally in composition with a noun, and written with or without the hyphen; as, an undercurrent; undertone; underdose; under-garment; underofficer; undersheriff. Under covert (Zoöl.), one of the feathers situated beneath the bases of the quills in the wings and tail of a bird. See Illust. under Bird. 

UNDERACT:  To perform inefficiently, as a play; to act feebly. 

UNDERACTION:  Subordinate action; a minor action incidental or subsidiary to the main story; an episode. The least episodes or underactions . . . are parts necessary or convenient to carry on the main design. Dryden. 

UNDERACTOR:  A subordinate actor.  UNDER-AGE Un"der-age`, a.  Not having arrived at adult age, or at years of discretion; hence, raw; green; immature; boyish; childish. [Obs.] I myself have loved a lady, and pursued her with a great deal of under-age protestation. J. Webster. 

UNDERAGENT:  A subordinate agent. 

UNDERAID:  To aid clandestinely. [Obs.]  UNDER-ARM Un"der-arm, a. (Cricket)  Done (as bowling) with the arm not raised above the elbow, that is, not swung far out from the body; underhand. Cf. Over-arm and Round-Arm. 

UNDERBACK:  A vessel which receives the wort as it flows from the mashing tub. 

UNDERBEARER:  One who supports or sustains; especially, at a funeral, one of those who bear the copse, as distinguished from a bearer, or pallbearer, who helps to hold up the pall. 

UNDERBID:  To bid less than, as when a contract or service is offered to the lowest bidder; to offer to contract, sell, or do for a less price than. 

UNDERBIND:  To bind beneath. Fairfax. 

UNDERBOARD:  Under the board, or table; hence, secretly; unfairly; underhand. See the Note under Aboveboard. 

UNDERBRACE:  To brace, fasten, or bind underneath or below. Cowper. 

UNDERBRED:  Not thoroughly bred; ill-bred; as, an underbred fellow. Goldsmith. 

UNDERBRUSH:  Shrubs, small trees, and the like, in a wood or forest, growing beneath large trees; undergrowth. 

UNDERBUILDER:  A subordinate or assistant builder. An underbuilder in the house of God. Jer. Taylor. 

UNDERBUILDING:  Same as Substruction. 

UNDERBUY:  To buy at less than the real value or worth; to buy cheaper than. [R.] J. Fletcher. 

UNDERCAST:  To cast under or beneath. 

UNDERCHAMBERLAIN:  A deputy chamberlain of the exchequer. 

UNDERCHANTER:  Same as Subchanter. 

UNDERCHAPS:  The lower chaps or jaw. Paley. 

UNDERCHARGE:  A charge that is less than is usual or suitable. 

UNDERCLAY:  A stratum of clay lying beneath a coal bed, often containing the roots of coal plants, especially the Stigmaria. 

UNDERCLIFF:  A subordinate cliff on a shore, consisting of material that has fallen from the higher cliff above. 

UNDERCLOTHES:  Clothes worn under others, especially those worn next the skin for warmth. 

UNDERCLOTHING:  Same as Underclothes. 

UNDERCONDUCT:  A lower conduit; a subterranean conduit. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 

UNDERCONSUMPTION:  Consumption of less than is produced; consumption of less than the usual amount. F. A. Walk 

UNDERCRAFT:  A sly trick or device; as, an undercraft of authors. [R.] Sterne. 

UNDERCREEP:  To creep secretly or privily. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNDERCREST:  To support as a crest; to bear. [Obs. & R.] Shak. 

UNDERCROFT:  A subterranean room of any kind; esp., one under a church (see Crypt), or one used as a chapel or for any sacred purpose. 

UNDERCRY:  To cry aloud. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNDERCURRENT:  Running beneath the surface; hidden. [R.] "Undercurrent woe." Tennyson. 

UNDERCUT:  The lower or under side of a sirloin of beef; the fillet. 

UNDERCUT:  To cut away, as the side of an object, so as to leave an overhanging portion. 

UNDERDEALING:  Crafty, unfair, or underhand dealing; unfair practice; trickery. Milton. 

UNDERDELVE:  To delve under. [Obs.] 

UNDERDIG:  To dig under or beneath; to undermine. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNDERDITCH:  To dig an underground ditches in, so as to drain the surface; to underdrain; as, to underditch a field or a farm. 

UNDERDO:  To do less than is requisite or proper; -- opposed to overdo. Grew. 

UNDERDO:  To do less thoroughly than is requisite; specifically, to cook insufficiently; as, to underdo the meat; -- opposed to overdo. 

UNDERDOER:  One who underdoes; a shirk. 

UNDERDOLVEN:  p. p. of Underdelve. 

UNDERDOSE:  A dose which is less than required; a small or insufficient dose. 

UNDERDOSE:  To give an underdose or underdoses to; to practice giving insufficient doses. 

UNDERDRAIN:  An underground drain or trench with openings through which the water may percolate from the soil or ground above. 

UNDERDRAIN:  To drain by forming an underdrain or underdrains in; as, to underdrain land. 

UNDERDRESSED:  Not dresses enough. 

UNDERESTIMATE:  To set to 

UNDERESTIMATE:  The act of underestimating; too low an estimate. 

UNDERFACTION:  A subordinate party or faction. 

UNDERFACULTY:  An inferior or subordinate faculty. 

UNDERFARMER:  An assistant farmer. 

UNDERFEED:  To feed with too little food; to supply with an insufficient quantity of food. 

UNDERFELLOW:  An underling [R.] Sir P. Sidney. 

UNDERFILLING:  The filling below or beneath; the under part of a building. Sir H. Wotton. 

UNDERFOLLOW:  To follow closely or immediately after. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNDERFOOT:  Under the feet; underneath; below. See Under foot, under Foot, n. 

UNDERFOOT:  Low; base; abject; trodden down. 

UNDERFRINGE:  A lower fringe; a fringe underneath something. Broad-faced, with underfringe of russet beard. Tennyson. 

UNDERFURNISH:  To supply with less than enough; to furnish insufficiently. Collier. 

UNDERFURROW:  To cover as under a furrow; to plow in; as, to underfurrow seed or manure.  UNDER-GARMENT Un"der-gar`ment, n.  A garment worn below another. 

UNDERGET:  To get under or beneath; also, to understand. [Obs.] R. of Gloucester. 

UNDERGIRD:  To blind below; to gird round the bottom. They used helps, undergirding the ship. Acts xxvii. 17. 

UNDERGLAZE:  Applied under the glaze, that is, before the glaze, that is, before the glaze is put on; fitted to be so applied; -- said of colors in porcelain painting. 

UNDERGOD:  A lower or inferio 

UNDERGORE:  To gore underneath. 

UNDERGOWN:  A gown worn under another, or under some other article of dress. An undergown and kirtle of pale sea-green silk. Sir W. Scott. 

UNDERGRADUATE:  A member of a university or a college who has not taken his first degree; a student in any school who has not completed his course. 

UNDERGRADUATE:  Of or pertaining to an undergraduate, or the body of undergraduates. 

UNDERGRADUATESHIP:  The position or condition of an undergraduate. 

UNDERGROAN:  To groan beneath. [Obs.] Earth undergroaned their high-raised feet. Chapman. 

UNDERGROUND:  The place or space beneath the surface of the ground; subterranean space. A spirit raised from depth of underground. Shak. 

UNDERGROUND:  Beneath the surface of the earth.  UNDERGROUND INSURANCE Un"der*ground` in*sur"ance.  Wildcat insurance. 

UNDERGROVE:  A grove of shrubs or low trees under taller ones. Wordsworth. 

UNDERGROW:  To grow to an inferior, or less than the usual, size or height. Wyclif. 

UNDERGROW:  Undergrown. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNDERGROWN:  Of small stature; not grown to a full height or size. 

UNDERGROWTH:  That which grows under trees; specifically, shrubs or small trees growing among large trees. Milton. 

UNDERGRUB:  To undermine. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

UNDERHAND:  Done, as pitching, with the hand lower than the shoulder, or, as bowling, with the hand lower than elbow. 

UNDERHAND:  In an underhand manner; -- said of pitching or bowling. 

UNDERHANDEDLY:  In an underhand manner. 

UNDERHANG:  To hang under or down; to suspend. Holland. 

UNDERHANGMAN:  An assistant or deputy hangman. Shak. 

UNDERHEAD:  A blockhead, or stupid person; a dunderhead. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

UNDERHEAVE:  To heave or lift from below. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNDERHEW:  To hew less than is usual or proper; specifically, to hew, as a piece of timber which should be square, in such a manner that it appears to contain a greater number of cubic feet than it really does contain. Haldeman. 

UNDERHONEST:  Not entirely honest. [R.] "We think him overproud and underhonest." Shak. 

UNDERHUNG:  Resting on a track at the bottom, instead of being suspended; - - said of a sliding door. Forney.  2. Having the lower jaw projecting. T. Hughes. 

UNDERJAW:  The lower jaw. Paley. 

UNDERJOIN:  To join below or beneath; to subjoin. Wyclif. 

UNDERKEEP:  To keep under, or in subjection; to suppress. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UNDERKEEPER:  A subordinate keeper or guardian. Gray. 

UNDERKIND:  An inferior kind. Dryden. 

UNDERKINGDOM:  A subordinate or dependent kingdom. Tennyson. 

UNDERLABORER:  An assistant or subordinate laborer. Locke. 

UNDERLAID:  Laid or placed underneath; also, having something laid or lying underneath. 

UNDERLAY:  To incline from the vertical; to hade; -- said of a vein, fault, or lode. 

UNDERLAY:  The inclination of a vein, fault, or lode from the vertical; a hade; -- called also underlie.  2. (Print.)  A thickness of paper, pasteboard, or the like, placed under a cut, or stereotype plate, or under type, in the from, to bring it, or any part of it, to the proper height; also, something placed back of a part of the tympan, so as to secure the right impression. 

UNDERLAYER:  A perpendicular shaft sunk to cut the lode at any required depth. Weale. 

UNDERLEAF:  A prolific sort of apple, good for cider. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

UNDERLEASE:  A lease granted by a tenant or lessee; especially, a lease granted by one who is himself a lessee for years, for any fewer or less number of years than he himself holds; a sublease. Burrill. 

UNDERLETTER:  A tenant or lessee who grants a lease to another. 

UNDERLIE:  To lie below or under. 

UNDERLIE:  See Underlay, n., 1. 

UNDERLING:  An inferior person or agent; a subordinate; hence, a mean, sorry fellow. Milton. he fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, But in ourselves, that we are underlings. Shak. 

UNDERLIP:  The lower lip.  UNDERLOAD STARTER Un"der*load start`er. (Elec.)  A motor starter provided with an underload switch.  UNDERLOAD SWITCH Underload switch. (Elec.)  A switch which opens a circuit when the current falls below a certain predetermined value, used to protect certain types of motors from running at excessive speed upon decrease of load. 

UNDERLOCK:  A lock of wool hanging under the belly of a sheep. 

UNDERLOCKER:  A person who inspects a mine daily; -- called also underviewer. 

UNDERLYING:  Lying under or beneath; hence, fundamental; as, the underlying strata of a locality; underlying principles. 

UNDERMANNED:  Insufficiently furnished with men; short-handed. 

UNDERMASTED:  Having masts smaller than the usual dimension; -- said of vessels. Totten. 

UNDERMASTER:  A master subordinate to the principal master; an assistant master. 

UNDERMATCH:  One who is not a match for another. Fuller. 

UNDERMINER:  One who undermines. 

UNDERMINISTER:  To serve, or minister to, in a subordinate relation. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNDERMINISTRY:  A subordinate or inferior ministry. Jer. Taylor. 

UNDERMIRTH:  Suppressed or concealed mirth. [Obs.] The Coronation. 

UNDERMONEYED:  Bribed. [R.] Fuller. 

UNDERMOST:  Lowest, as in place, rank, or condition. Addison. 

UNDERN:  The time between; the time between sunrise and noon; specifically, the third hour of the day, or nine o'clock in the morning, according to ancient reckoning; hence, mealtime, because formerly the principal meal was eaten at that hour; also, later, the afternoon; the time between dinner and supper. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Betwixt undern and noon was the field all won. R. of Brunne. In a bed of worts still he lay Till it was past undern of the day. Chaucer. 

UNDERNEATH:  Beneath; below; in a lower place; under; as, a channel underneath the soil. Or sullen mole, that runneth underneath. Milton. 

UNDERNEATH:  Under; beneath; below. Underneath this stone lie As much beauty as could die. B. Jonson. 

UNDERNICENESS:  A want of niceness; indelicacy; impropriety. 

UNDEROFFICER:  A subordinate officer. 

UNDERPART:  A subordinate part. It should be lightened with underparts of mirth. Dryden. 

UNDERPAY:  To pay inadequately. 

UNDERPEEP:  To peep under. "The flame . . . would underpeep her lids." [R.] Shak. 

UNDERPEER:  To peer under. [R.] 

UNDERPEOPLED:  Not fully peopled. 

UNDERPIGHT:  imp. of Underpitch. 

UNDERPITCH:  To fill underneath; to stuff. [Obs.] He drank and well his girdle underpight. Chaucer. 

UNDERPLANT:  To plant under; specif. (Forestry),  to plant (young trees) under an existing stand. 

UNDERPLAY:  To play a low card when holding a high one, in the hope of a future advantage. 

UNDERPLAY:  The act of underplaying. 

UNDERPOISE:  To weigh, estimate, or rate below desert; to undervalue. [R.] Marston. 

UNDERPOSSESSOR:  One who possesses or holds anything subject to the superior of another. Jer. Taylor. 

UNDERPRAISE:  To praise below desert. 

UNDERPRIZE:  To undervalue; to underestimate. Shak. 

UNDERPRODUCTION:  The production of less than is demanded or of less than the usual supply. F. A. Walker. 

UNDERPROOF:  Containing less alcohol than proof spirit. See Proof spirit, under Spirit. 

UNDERPROP:  To prop from beneath; to put a prop under; to support; to uphold. Underprop the head that bears the crown. Fenton. 

UNDERPROPORTIONED:  Of inadequate or inferior proportions; small; poor. Scanty and underproportioned returns of civility. Collier. 

UNDERPROPPER:  One who, or that which, underprops or supports. 

UNDERPULL:  To exert one's influence secretly. [Obs.] Ld. North. 

UNDERPULLER:  One who underpulls. [Obs.] 

UNDERPUT:  To put or send under. [Obs.] 

UNDERRATE:  To rate too low; to rate below the value; to undervalue. Burke. 

UNDERRATE:  A price less than the value; as, to sell a thing at an underrate. Cowley. 

UNDERRECKON:  To reckon below what is right or proper; to underrate. Bp. Hall. 

UNDERRUN:  To run or pass under; especially (Naut.), to pass along and under, as a cable, for the purpose of taking it in, or of examining it.  Note: The cable passes over the bows and stern of the boat used, while the men haul the boat along by pulling upon the cable. Totten. To underrun a tackle (Naut.), to separate its parts and put them in order. 

UNDERSAIL:  To sail alongshore. [Obs.] 

UNDERSAILED:  Inadequately equipped with sails. [Obs.] 

UNDERSATURATED:  Not fully saturated; imperfectly saturated. 

UNDERSAY:  To say by way of derogation or contradiction. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UNDERSCORE:  To draw a mark or line under; to underline. J. Tucker. 

UNDERSECRETARY:  A secretary who is subordinate to the chief secretary; an assistant secretary; as, an undersecretary of the Treasury. 

UNDERSELL:  To sell the same articles at a lower price than; to sell cheaper than. 

UNDERSERVANT:  An inferior servant. 

UNDERSET:  To prop or support. Bacon. 

UNDERSET:  Undercurrent. 

UNDERSETTER:  One who, or that which, undersets or supports; a prop; a support; a pedestal. 

UNDERSETTING:  Something set or built under as a support; a pedestal. Sir H. Wotton. 

UNDERSHAPEN:  Under the usual shape or size; small; dwarfish. [Poetic] His dwarf, a vicious undershapen thing. Tennyson. 

UNDERSHERIFF:  A sheriff's deputy. 

UNDERSHERIFFRY:  Undershrievalty. [Obs.] 

UNDERSHIRT:  A shirt worn next the skin, under another shirt; -- called also undervest. 

UNDERSHOOT:  To shoot short of (a mark). 

UNDERSHOT:  Having the lower incisor teeth projecting beyond the upper ones, as in the bulldog.  2. Moved by water passing beneath; -- said of a water wheel, and opposed to overshot; as, an undershot wheel. 

UNDERSHRIEVALTY:  The office or position of an undersheriff. 

UNDERSHRIEVE:  A low shrub; a woody plant of low stature. 

UNDERSHRUB:  Partly shrublike. 

UNDERSHUT:  Closed from beneath. Undershut valve (Mach.), a valve which shuts by being lifted against a seat facing downward. Knight. 

UNDERSIDE:  The lower or lowest side of anything. Paley. 

UNDERSIGN:  To write one's name at the foot or end of, as a letter or any legal instrument. The undersigned, the person whose name is signed, or the persons whose names are signed, at the end of a document; the subscriber or subscribers. 

UNDERSIZED:  Of a size less than is common. 

UNDERSKINKER:  Undertapster. [Obs.] 

UNDERSKIRT:  A petticoat; the foundation skirt of a draped dress. 

UNDERSKY:  The lower region of the sky. Floating about the undersky. Tennyson. 

UNDERSLEEVE:  A sleeve of an under-garment; a sleeve worn under another,  UNDERSLUNG; UNDERHUNG Un"der*slung`, Un"der*hung", a.  Of an automobile body, suspended from the springs in such a manner that the frame of the chassis is below the axles, the object being to lower the center of gravity of the car. 

UNDERSOIL:  The soil beneath the surface; understratum; subsoil. 

UNDERSOLD:  p. p. of Undersell. 

UNDERSPARRED:  Having spars smaller than the usual dimension; -- said of vessels. 

UNDERSPEND:  To spend less than. 

UNDERSPORE:  To raise with a spar, or piece of wood, used as a lever. [Obs.] Give me a staff that I may underspore. Chaucer. 

UNDERSTAIR:  Of or pertaining to the kitchen, or the servants' quarters; hence, subordinate; menial. [Obs.] 

UNDERSTAIRS:  The basement or cellar. 

UNDERSTANDABLE:  Capable of being understood; intelligible. Chillingworth. 

UNDERSTANDER:  One who understands, or knows by experience. [R.] Dryden. 

UNDERSTANDING:  Knowing; intelligent; skillful; as, he is an understanding man. 

UNDERSTANDINGLY:  In an understanding manner; intelligibly; with full knowledge or comprehension; intelligently; as, to vote upon a question understandingly; to act or judge understandingly. The gospel may be neglected, but in can not be understandingly disbelieved. J. Hawes. 

UNDERSTATE:  To state or represent less strongly than may be done truthfully. 

UNDERSTATEMENT:  The act of understating, or the condition of being understated; that which is understated; a statement below the truth. 

UNDERSTOCK:  To supply insufficiently with stock. A. Smith. 

UNDERSTOOD:  imp. & p. p. of Understand. 

UNDERSTRAPPER:  A petty fellow; an inferior agent; an underling. This was going to the fountain head at once, not applying to the understrappers. Goldsmith. 

UNDERSTRAPPING:  Becoming an understrapper; subservient. [R.] Sterne. 

UNDERSTRATUM:  The layer, or stratum, of earth on which the mold, or soil, rests; subsoil. 

UNDERSTROKE:  To underline or underscore. Swift. 

UNDERSTUDY:  To study, as another actor's part, in order to be his substitute in an emergency; to study another actor's part. 

UNDERSTUDY:  One who studies another's part with a view to assuming it in an emergency. 

UNDERSUIT:  A suit worn under another suit; a suit of underclothes. 

UNDERTAKABLE:  Capable of being undertaken; practicable. 

UNDERTAPSTER:  Assistant to a tapster. 

UNDERTAXED:  Taxed too little, or at a lower rate than others. 

UNDERTENANCY:  Tenancy or tenure under a tenant or lessee; the tenure of an undertenant. 

UNDERTENANT:  The tenant of a tenant; one who holds lands or tenements of a tenant or lessee. 

UNDERTHING:  Something that is inferior and of little worth. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  UNDERTIDE; UNDERTIME Un"der*tide`, Un"der*time`, n. Etym: [Under + tide, time. Cf. Undern.]  The under or after part of the day; undermeal; evening. [Obs.] He, coming home at undertime, there found The fairest creature that he ever saw. Spenser. 

UNDERTONE:  A low or subdued tone or utterance; a tone less loud than usual. 

UNDERTOOK:  imp. of Undertake. 

UNDERTOW:  The current that sets seaward near the bottom when waves are breaking upon the shore. 

UNDERTREASURER:  An assistant treasurer. 

UNDERTURN:  To turn upside down; to subvert; to upset. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNDERVALUATION:  The act of undervaluing; a rate or value not equal to the real worth. 

UNDERVALUE:  A low rate or price; a price less than the real worth; undervaluation. Milton. 

UNDERVALUER:  One who undervalues. 

UNDERVERSE:  The lower or second verse. [Obs.] 

UNDERVEST:  An undershirt. 

UNDERVIEWER:  See Underlooker. 

UNDERWEAR:  That which is worn under the outside clothing; underclothes. 

UNDERWEEN:  To undervalue. [Obs.] 

UNDERWENT:  imp. of Undergo. 

UNDERWING:  One of the posterior wings of an insect.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of noctuid moths belonging to Catocala and allied genera, in which the hind wings are banded with red and black or other conspicuous colors. Many of the species are called red underwing. 

UNDERWITTED:  Weak in intellect; half-witted; silly. [R.] Bp. Kennet. 

UNDERWOOD:  Small trees and bushes that grow among large trees; coppice; underbrush; -- formerly used in the plural. Shrubs and underwoods look well enough while they grow within the shade of oaks and cedars. Addison. 

UNDERWORK:  Inferior or subordinate work; petty business. Addison. 

UNDERWRITE:  To practice the business of insuring; to take a risk of insurance on a vessel or the like. 

UNDERWRITER:  One who underwrites his name to the conditions of an insurance policy, especially of a marine policy; an insurer. 

UNDERWRITING:  The business of an underwriter, 

UNDERYOKE:  To subject to the yoke; to make subject. Wyclif. 

UNDESERVE:  To fail to deserve. [Obs.] Milton. 

UNDESERVER:  One of no merit; one who is nor deserving or worthy. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNDESIGNING:  Having no artful, ulterior, or fraudulent purpose; sincere; artless; simple. 

UNDESTROYABLE:  Indestructible. 

UNDETERMINABLE:  Not determinable; indeterminable. Locke. 

UNDETERMINATE:  Nor determinate; not settled or certain; indeterminate. South.  -- Un`de*ter"mi*nate*ness, n. Dr. H. More. 

UNDETERMINATION:  Indetermination. Sir M. Hale. 

UNDEVIL:  To free from possession by a devil or evil spirit; to exorcise. [Obs.] They boy having gotten a habit of counterfeiting . . . would not be undeviled by all their exorcisms. Fuller. 

UNDEVOTION:  Absence or want of devotion. 

UNDID:  imp. of Undo. 

UNDIFFERENTIATED:  Not differentiated; specifically (Biol.), homogenous, or nearly so; -- said especially of young or embryonic tissues which have not yet undergone differentiation (see Differentiation, 3), that is, which show no visible separation into their different structural parts. 

UNDIGENOUS:  Generated by water. [R.] Kirwan. 

UNDIGESTIBLE:  Indigestible. 

UNDIGHT:  To put off; to lay aside, as a garment. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UNDIGNE:  Unworthy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNDINE:  One of a class of fabled female water spirits who might receive a human soul by intermarrying with a mortal. 

UNDIOCESED:  Unprovided with a diocese; having no diocese. Milton. 

UNDIRECT:  To misdirect; to mislead. [Obs.] who make false fires to undirect seamen in a tempest. Fuller. 

UNDIRECT:  Indirect. 

UNDIRECTLY:  Indirectly. Strype. 

UNDISCERNING:  Want of discernment. [R.] Spectator. 

UNDISCLOSE:  To keep close or secret. [Obs.] Daniel. 

UNDISCREET:  Indiscreet. Chaucer.  -- Un`dis*creet"ly, adv.  -- -- Un`dis*creet"ness.  -- Un`dis*cre"tion, n. Indiscretion. 

UNDISPOSEDNESS:  Indisposition; disinclination. 

UNDISPUTABLE:  Indisputable. Addison.  -- Un*dis"pu*ta*ble*ness, n. 

UNDISTINCTIVE:  Making no distinctions; not discriminating; impartial. As undistinctive Death will come here one day. Dickens. 

UNDISTINCTLY:  Indistinctly. 

UNDIVIDED:  Not lobed, cleft, or branched; entire. 

UNDIVIDUAL:  Indivisible. [Obs.] True courage and courtesy are undividual companions. Fuller. 

UNDIVISIBLE:  Indivisible. 

UNDOCK:  To take out of dock; as, to undock a ship. 

UNDOER:  One who undoes anything; especially, one who ruins another. 

UNDOMESTICATE:  To make wild or roving. 

UNDONE:  p. p. of Undo. 

UNDONE:  Not done or performed; neglected. 

UNDOUBLE:  To unfold, or render single. 

UNDOUBTABLE:  Indubitable. 

UNDOUBTED:  Not doubted; not called in question; indubitable; indisputable; as, undoubted proof; undoubted hero.  -- Un*doubt"ed*ly, adv. 

UNDRAPE:  To strip of drapery; to uncover or unveil. 

UNDRAW:  To draw aside or open; to draw back. Angels undrew the curtain of the throne. Young.  UNDREAMED; UNDREAMT Un*dreamed", Un*dreamt", a.  Not dreamed, or dreamed of; not thof. Unpathed waters, undreamed shores. Shak. 

UNDRESS:  To take the dressing, or covering, from; as, to undress a wound. 

UNDRESS:  An authorized habitual dress of officers and soldiers, but not full-dress uniform. Undress parade (Mil.), a substitute for dress parade, allowed in bad weather, the companies forming without arms, and the ceremony being shortened. 

UNDUBITABLE:  Indubitable; as, an undubitable principle. [Obs.] Locke. 

UNDUENESS:  The quality of being undue. 

UNDUKE:  To deprive of dukedom. Swift. 

UNDULANT:  Undulating. [R.] 

UNDULARY:  Moving like waves; undulatory. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

UNDULATE:  Same as Undulated. 

UNDULATE:  To cause to move backward and forward, or up and down, in undulations or waves; to cause to vibrate. Breath vocalized, that is, vibrated and undulated. Holder. 

UNDULATE:  To move in, or have, undulations or waves; to vibrate; to wave; as, undulating air. 

UNDULATED:  Waved obtusely up and down, near the margin, as a leaf or corolla; wavy.  3. (Zoöl.)  Formed with elevations and depressions resembling waves; having wavelike color markings; as, an undulated shell. 

UNDULATING:  Rising and falling like waves; resembling wave form or motion; undulatory; rolling; wavy; as, an undulating medium; undulating ground.  -- Un"du*la`ting*ly. adv. 

UNDULATION:  A motion to and fro, up and down, or from side to side, in any fluid or elastic medium, propagated continuously among its particles, but with no translation of the particles themselves in the direction of the propagation of the wave; a wave motion; a vibration. 

UNDULATIONIST:  One who advocates the undulatory theory of light. Whewell. 

UNDULATIVE:  Consisting in, or accompanied by, undulations; undulatory. 

UNDULATORY:  Moving in the manner of undulations, or waves; resembling the motion of waves, which successively rise or swell rise or swell and fall; pertaining to a propagated alternating motion, similar to that of waves. Undulatory theory, or Wave theory (of light) (Opt.), that theory which regards its various phenomena as due to undulations in an ethereal medium, propagated from the radiant with immense, but measurable, velocities, and producing different impressions on the retina according to their amplitude and frequency, the sensation of brightness depending on the former, that of color on the latter. The undulations are supposed to take place, not in the direction of propagation, as in the air waves constituting sound, but transversely, and the various phenomena of refraction, polarization, interference, etc., are attributable to the different affections of these undulations in different circumstances of propagation. It is computed that the frequency of the undulations corresponding to the several colors of the spectrum ranges from 458 millions of millions per second for the extreme red ray, to 727 millions of millions for the extreme violet, and their lengths for the same colors, from the thirty-eight thousandth to the sixty thousandth part of an inch. The theory of ethereal undulations is applicable not only to the phenomena of light, but also to those of heat. 

UNDULL:  To remove the dullness of; to clear. [Obs.] Whitlock. 

UNDULOUS:  Undulating; undulatory. 

UNDULY:  In an undue manner. 

UNDUMPISH:  To relieve from the dumps. [Obs.] Fuller. 

UNDUST:  To free from dust. [Obs.] 

UNDWELLABLE:  Uninhabitable. [Obs.] "A land undwellable." Wyclif. 

UNDWELT:  Not lived (in); -- with in. 

UNDYING:  Not dying; imperishable; unending; immortal; as, the undying souls of men. 

UNEARED:  Not eared, or plowed. Shak. 

UNEARNED:  Not earned; not gained by labor or service. Unearned increment (Polit. Econ.), a increase in the value of land due to no labor or expenditure on the part of the owner, but to natural causes, such as the increase of population, the growth of a town in the vicinity, or the like. Some hold that this should belong to the nation. 

UNEARTH:  To drive or draw from the earth; hence, to uncover; to bring out from concealment; to bring to light; to disclose; as, to unearth a secret. To unearth the roof of an old tree. Wordsworth. 

UNEARTHLY:  Not terrestrial; supernatural; preternatural; hence, weird; appalling; terrific; as, an unearthly sight or sound.  -- Un*earth"li*ness, n. 

UNEASE:  Want of ease; uneasiness. [Obs.] 

UNEASILY:  In an uneasy manner. 

UNEATH:  Not easy; difficult; hard. [Obs.] Who he was, uneath was to descry. Spenser. 

UNEATH:  Not easily; hardly; scarcely. [Obs.] Uneath may she endure the flinty streets. Shak. 

UNEDGE:  To deprive of the edge; to blunt. J. Fletcher. 

UNEFECTUAL:  Ineffectual. "His uneffectual fire." Shak. 

UNELASTIC:  Not elastic; inelastic. 

UNELASTICITY:  Inelasticity. 

UNELEGANT:  Inelegant. 

UNELIGIBLE:  Ineligible. Roger 

UNEMBARRASSED:  Not embarrassed. Specifically: -- (a) Not perplexed in mind; not confused; as, the speaker appeared unembarrassed. (b) Free from pecuniary difficulties or encumbrances; as, he and his property are unembarrassed. (c) Free from perplexing connection; as, the question comes into court unembarrassed with irrelevant matter. 

UNEMBARRASSMENT:  Freedom from embarrassment. 

UNEMPIRICALLY:  Not empirically; without experiment or experience. 

UNEMPLOYMENT:  Quality or state of being not employed; -- used esp. in economics, of the condition of various social classes when temporarily thrown out of employment, as those engaged for short periods, those whose trade is decaying, and those least competent. 

UNENCUMBER:  To free from incumbrance; to disencumber. 

UNENDLY:  Unending; endless. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

UNENTANGLE:  To disentangle. 

UNEQUAL:  Not having the two sides or the parts symmetrical. 

UNEQUALABLE:  Not capable of being equaled or paralleled. [Obs.] Boyle. 

UNEQUALED:  Not equaled; unmatched; unparalleled; unrivaled; exceeding; surpassing; -- in a good or bad sense; as, unequaled excellence; unequaled ingratitude or baseness. [Written also unequalled.] 

UNEQUALLY:  In an unequal manner. Unequally pinnate (Bot.), pinnate, but with an odd number of leaflets. 

UNEQUALNESS:  The quality or state of being unequal; inequality; unevenness. Jer. Taylor. 

UNEQUITABLE:  Inequitable. 

UNEQUITY:  Want of equity or uprightness; injustice; wickedness; iniquity. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNEQUIVOCAL:  Not equivocal; not doubtful; not ambiguous; evident; sincere; plain; as, unequivocal evidence; unequivocal words.  -- Un`e*quiv"o*cal*ly, adv.  -- Un`e*quiv"o*cal*ness, n. 

UNERRING:  Committing no mistake; incapable or error or failure certain; sure; unfailing; as, the unerring wisdom of God. Hissing in air the unerring weapon flew. Dryden. 

UNERRINGLY:  In an unerring manner. 

UNESSENTIAL:  Something not constituting essence, or something which is not of absolute necessity; as, forms are among the unessentials of religion. 

UNESSENTIALLY:  In an unessential manner. 

UNESTABLISH:  To disestablish. [R.] The Parliament demanded of the king to unestablish that prelatical government. Milton.  UNETH; UNETHES Un*eth", Un*ethes", adv.  With difficulty; scarcely. See Uneath. [Written also unethe, unneth, unnethe, unnethes, etc.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNEVITABLE:  Inevitable. [Obs.] 

UNEXACT:  Not exact; inexact. 

UNEXAMPLED:  Having no example or similar case; being without precedent; unprecedented; unparalleled. "A revolution . . . unexampled for grandeur of results." De Quincey. 

UNEXCEPTIONABLE:  Not liable to any exception or objection; unobjectionable; faultless; good; excellent; as, a man of most unexceptionable character.  -- Un`ex*cep"tion*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un`ex*cep"tion*a*bly, adv.  Chesterfield is an unexceptionable witness. Macaulay. 

UNEXCEPTIVE:  Not exceptive; not including, admitting, or being, an exception. 

UNEXCUSABLE:  Inexcusable. Hayward.  -- Un`ex*cus"a*ble*ness, n. 

UNEXHAUSTIBLE:  Inexhaustible. 

UNEXPECTATION:  Absence of expectation; want of foresight. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

UNEXPECTED:  Not expected; coming without warning; sudden.  -- Un`ex*pect"ed*ly, adv.  -- Un`ex*pect"ed*ness, n. 

UNEXPEDIENT:  Inexpedient. [Obs.] 

UNEXPENSIVE:  Inexpensive. Milton. 

UNEXPERIENCE:  Inexperience. [Obs.] 

UNEXPERIENT:  Inexperienced. [Obs.] 

UNEXPERT:  Not expert; inexpert. Milton. 

UNEXPERTLY:  In an unexpert manner. 

UNEXPRESSIBLE:  Inexpressible. Tillotson.  -- Un`ex*press"i*bly, adv. 

UNEXTINGUISHABLE:  Inextinguishable.  -- Un`ex*tin"guish*a*bly, adv. 

UNEXTRICABLE:  Not extricable; inextricable. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

UNFACE:  To remove the face or cover from; to unmask; to expose. 

UNFAILABLE:  Infallible. [Obs.] "This unfailable word of truth." Bp. Hall. 

UNFAILING:  Not failing; not liable to fail; inexhaustible; certain; sure. Dryden.  -- Un*fail"ing*ly, adv.  -- Un*fail"ing*ness, n. 

UNFAIR:  To deprive of fairness or beauty. [R.] Shak. 

UNFAIR:  Not fair; not honest; not impartial; disingenuous; using or involving trick or artifice; dishonest; unjust; unequal. You come, like an unfair merchant, to charge me with being in your debt. Swift. -- Un*fair"ly, adv -- Un*fair"ness, n. 

UNFAITH:  Absence or want of faith; faithlessness; distrust; unbelief. [R.] Faith and unfaith can ne'er be equal powers: Unfaith in aught is want of faith in all. Tennyson. 

UNFALLIBLE:  Infallible. Shak. 

UNFASTEN:  To loose; to unfix; to unbind; to untie. 

UNFAVORABLE:  Not favorable; not propitious; adverse; contrary; discouraging.  -- Un*fa"vor*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*fa"vor*a*bly, adv. 

UNFEATHER:  To deprive of feathers; to strip. [R.] 

UNFEATURED:  Wanting regular features; deformed. "Visage rough, deformed, unfeatured, and a skin of buff." Dryden. 

UNFEATY:  Not feat; not dexterous; unskillful; clumsy. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

UNFEIGNED:  Not feigned; not counterfeit; not hypocritical; real; sincere; genuine; as, unfeigned piety; unfeigned love to man. "Good faith unfeigned." Chaucer.  -- Un*feign"ed*ly, adv.  -- Un*feign"ed*ness, n. 

UNFELLOW:  To prevent from being a fellow or companion; to separate from one's fellows; to dissever. Death quite unfellows us. Mrs. Browning. 

UNFELLOWED:  Being without a fellow; unmatched; unmated. Shak. 

UNFENCE:  To strip of a fence; to remove a fence from. 

UNFERTILE:  Not fertile; infertile; barren.  -- Un*fer"tile*ness, n. 

UNFESTLICH:  Unfit for a feast; hence, jaded; worn. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNFETTER:  To loose from fetters or from restraint; to unchain; to unshackle; to liberate; as, to unfetter the mind. 

UNFEUDALIZE:  To free from feudal customs or character; to make not feudal. Carlyle. 

UNFILE:  To remove from a file or record. 

UNFILED:  Not defiled; pure. [Obs.] Surrey. 

UNFILIAL:  Unsuitable to a son or a daughter; undutiful; not becoming a child.  -- Un*fil"ial*ly, adv. 

UNFINISHED:  Not finished, not brought to an end; imperfect; incomplete; left in the rough; wanting the last hand or touch; as, an unfinished house; an unfinished picture; an unfinished iron casting. 

UNFIRM:  Infirm. [R.] Dryden. 

UNFIRMNESS:  Infirmness. [R.] 

UNFIT:  To make unsuitable or incompetent; to deprive of the strength, skill, or proper qualities for anything; to disable; to incapacitate; to disqualify; as, sickness unfits a man for labor; sin unfits us for the society of holy beings. 

UNFIT:  Not fit; unsuitable.  -- Un*fit"ly, adv.  -- Un*fit"ness, n. 

UNFLEDGED:  Not fledged; not feathered; hence, not fully developed; immature. Dryden. 

UNFLESH:  To deprive of flesh; to reduce a skeleton. "Unfleshed humanity." Wordsworth. 

UNFLESHLY:  Not pertaining to the flesh; spiritual. 

UNFLEXIBLE:  Inflexible. 

UNFLINCHING:  Not flinching or shrinking; unyielding.  -- Un*flinch"ing*ly, adv. 

UNFLOWER:  To strip of flowers. [R.] G. Fletcher. 

UNFOLD:  To open; to expand; to become disclosed or developed. The wind blows cold While the morning doth unfold. J. Fletcher. 

UNFOLDER:  One who, or that which, unfolds. 

UNFOLDMENT:  The acct of unfolding, or the state of being unfolded. The extreme unfoldment of the instinctive powers. C. Morris. 

UNFOOL:  To restore from folly, or from being a fool. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNFORESEE:  To fail to foresee. Bp. Hacket. 

UNFORESEEABLE:  Incapable of being foreseen. South. 

UNFORESKINNED:  Deprived of the foreskin; circumcised. [R.] Milton. 

UNFORGETTABLE:  Not forgettable; enduring in memory. Pungent and unforgettable truths. Emerson. 

UNFORM:  To decompose, or resolve into parts; to destroy the form of; to unmake. [R.] Good. 

UNFORMED:  Unorganized; without definite shape or structure; as, an unformed, or unorganized, ferment. Unformed stars (Astron.), stars not grouped into any constellation; informed stars. See Sporades. 

UNFORTUNATE:  Not fortunate; unsuccessful; not prosperous; unlucky; attended with misfortune; unhappy; as, an unfortunate adventure; an unfortunate man; an unfortunate commander; unfortunate business.  -- n.  An unfortunate person. Hood.  -- Un*for"tu*nate*ly, adv.  -- Un*for"tu*nate*ness, n. 

UNFRAME:  To take apart, or destroy the frame of. Dryden. 

UNFRANGIBLE:  Infrangible. [Obs.] "Impassible and unfrangible." Jer. Taylor. 

UNFRANKABLE:  Not frankable; incapable of being sent free by public conveyance. 

UNFRAUGHT:  Not fraught; not burdened.  2. Etym: [1st pref. un- + fraught.]  Removed, as a burden; unloaded. P. Fletcher. 

UNFREE:  Not free; held in bondage. There had always been a slave class, a class of the unfree, among the English as among all German peoples. J. R. Green 

UNFREEZE:  To thaw. [Obs.] 

UNFREQUENCY:  Infrequency. 

UNFREQUENT:  Infrequent. J. H. Newman.  -- Un*fre"quent*ly adv. 

UNFREQUENT:  To cease to frequent. [Obs.] They quit their thefts and unfrequent the fields. J. Philips. 

UNFREQUENTED:  Rarely visited; seldom or never resorted to by human beings; as, an unfrequented place or forest. Addison. 

UNFRET:  To smooth after being fretted. [Obs.] 

UNFRIEND:  One not a friend; an enemy. [R.] Carlyle. 

UNFRIENDED:  Wanting friends; not befriended; not countenanced or supported. Goldsmith. If Richard indeed does come back, it must be alone, unfollowed, unfriended. Sir W. Scott. 

UNFRIENDSHIP:  The state or quality of being unfriendly; unfriendliness; enmity. An act of unfriendship to my sovereign person. Sir W. Scott. 

UNFROCK:  To deprive or divest or a frock; specifically, to deprive of priestly character or privilege; as, to unfrock a priest. 

UNFRUITFUL:  Not producing fruit or offspring; unproductive; infertile; barren; sterile; as, an unfruitful tree or animal; unfruitful soil; an unfruitful life or effort.  -- Un*fruit"ful*ly, adv.  -- Un*fruit"ful*ness, n. 

UNFUMED:  Not exposed to fumes; not fumigated. Milton. 

UNFURL:  To loose from a furled state; to unfold; to expand; to open or spread; as, to unfurl sails; to unfurl a flag. 

UNFURNISH:  To strip of furniture; to divest; to strip. 

UNFUSIBLE:  Infusible. [R.] 

UNGAIN:  Ungainly; clumsy; awkward; also, troublesome; inconvenient. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Beau. & Pl. 

UNGAINLINESS:  The state or quality of being ungainly; awkwardness. 

UNGAINLY:  In an ungainly manner. 

UNGEAR:  To strip of gear; to unharness; to throw out of gear. 

UNGELD:  A person so far out of the protection of the law, that if he were murdered, no geld, or fine, should be paid, or composition made by him that killed him. Cowell. Burrill. 

UNGENEROUS:  Not generous; illiberal; ignoble; unkind; dishonorable. The victor never will impose on Cato Ungenerous terms. Addison. 

UNGENEROUSLY:  In an ungenerous manner. 

UNGENITURED:  Destitute of genitals; impotent. [R.] Shak. 

UNGENTLE:  Not gentle; lacking good breeding or delicacy; harsh. Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind. Shak. That ungentle flavor which distinguishes nearly all our native and uncultivated grapes. Hawthorne. -- Un*gen"tle*ness, n.  -- Un*gen"tly, adv. 

UNGET:  To cause to be unbegotten or unborn, or as if unbegotten or unborn. [R.] I 'll disown you, I 'll disinherit you, I 'll unget you. Sheridan. 

UNGIFTED:  Being without gifts, especially native gifts or endowments. Cowper. 

UNGIRD:  To loose the girdle or band of; to unbind; to unload. He ungirded his camels. Gen. xxiv. 32. 

UNGIVE:  To yield; to relax; to give way. [Obs.] 

UNGKA:  The siamang; -- called also ungka ape.  UNGKA-PUTI Ung"ka-pu`ti, n. (Zoöl.)  The agile gibbon; -- called also ungka-pati, and ungka-etam. See Gibbon. 

UNGLAZE:  To strip of glass; to remove the glazing, or glass, from, as a window. 

UNGLORIFY:  To deprive of glory. [R.] I. Watts. 

UNGLORIOUS:  Inglorious. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNGLOVE:  To take off the glove or gloves of; as, to unglove the hand. Beau. & Fl. 

UNGLUE:  To separate, part, or open, as anything fastened with glue. She stretches, gapes, unglues her eyes, And asks if it be time to rise. Swift. 

UNGORED:  Not stained with gore; not bloodied. Sylvester. 

UNGORED:  Not gored or pierced.  UNGOT; UNGOTTEN Un*got", Un*got"ten, a.  1. Not gotten; not acquired.  2. Not begotten. [Obs. or Poetic] "His loins yet full of ungot princes." Waller. 

UNGOVERNABLE:  Not governable; not capable of being governed, ruled, or restrained; licentious; wild; unbridled; as, ungovernable passions.  -- Un*gov"ern*a*bly, adv. Goldsmith. 

UNGOWN:  To strip of a gown; to unfrock. 

UNGOWNED:  Stripped of a gown; unfrocked.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + gowned.]  Not having, or not wearing, a gown. 

UNGRACEFUL:  Not graceful; not marked with ease and dignity; deficient in beauty and elegance; inelegant; awkward; as, ungraceful manners; ungraceful speech. The other oak remaining a blackened and ungraceful trunk. Sir W. Scott. -- Un*grace"ful*ly, adv.  -- Un*grace"ful*ness, n. 

UNGRATE:  Displeasing; ungrateful; ingrate. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. 

UNGRAVE:  To raise or remove from the grave; to disinter; to untomb; to exhume. [Obs.] Fuller. 

UNGUARD:  To deprive of a guard; to leave unprotected. [R.] Sterne. 

UNGUEAL:  Ungual. 

UNGUENT:  A lubricant or salve for sores, burns, or the like; an ointment. Cowper.  Note: An unguent is stiffer than a liniment, but softer than a cerate. 

UNGUENTARY:  Like an unguent, or partaking of its qualities. 

UNGUENTOUS:  Unguentary. 

UNGUESTLIKE:  In a manner not becoming to a guest. [R.] Milton. 

UNGUICAL:  Ungual. 

UNGUICULAR:  Of or pertaining to a claw or a nail; ungual. 

UNGUICULATA:  An extensive division of Mammalia including those having claws or nails, as distinguished from the hoofed animals (Ungulata). 

UNGUICULATE:  One of the Unguiculata.  UNGUICULATE; UNGUICULATED Un*guic"u*late, Un*guic"u*la`ted, a.  1. Furnished with nails, claws, or hooks; clawed. See the Note under Nail, n., 1.  2. (Bot.)  Furnished with a claw, or a narrow stalklike base, as the petals of a carnation. 

UNGUIFEROUS:  Producing, having, or supporting nails or claws. 

UNGUIFORM:  Having the form of a claw or claws. 

UNGUINOUS:  Consisting of, or resembling, fat or oil; oily; unctuous; oleaginous. 

UNGUIS:  One of the terminal hooks on the foot of an insect.  3. (Bot.)  The slender base of a petal in some flowers; a claw; called also ungula. 

UNGULA:  A section or part of a cylinder, cone, or other solid of revolution, cut off by a plane oblique to the base; -- so called from its resemblance to the hoof of a horse.  3. (Bot.)  Same as Unguis, 3. Spherical ungula (Geom.), a part of a sphere bounded by two planes intersecting in a diameter and by a line of the surface of the sphere. 

UNGULAR:  Of or pertaining to a hoof, claw, or talon; ungual. 

UNGULATA:  An extensive group of mammals including all those that have hoofs. It comprises the Artiodactyla and Perissodactyla. 

UNGULATE:  Furnished with hoofs. See the Note under Nail, n., 1. 

UNGULATE:  Any hoofed quadruped; one of the Ungulata. 

UNGULED:  Hoofed, or bearing hoofs; -- used only when these are of a tincture different from the body. 

UNGULIGRADE:  Having, or walking on, hoofs. 

UNGULOUS:  Same as Ungulate. 

UNHAIR:  To deprive of hair, or of hairs; as, to unhair hides for leather. I 'll unhair thy head. Shak. 

UNHALLOW:  To profane; to desecrate. The vanity unhallows the virtue. L'Estrange. 

UNHALLOWED:  Not consecrated; hence, profane; unholy; impious; wicked. In the cause of truth, no unhallowed violence . . . is either necessary or admissible. E. D. Griffin. 

UNHAND:  To loose from the hand; to let go. Hold off! unhand me, gray beard loon! Eftsoons his hand dropped he. Coleridge. 

UNHANDY:  Clumsy; awkward; as, an Unhandy man. 

UNHAP:  Ill luck; misfortune. [Obs.] "The cause of her unhap." Sir P. Sidney. 

UNHAPPIED:  Made unhappy. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNHARBOR:  To drive from harbor or shelter. 

UNHARMONIOUS:  Inharmonious; unsymmetrical; also, unmusical; discordant. Swift.  -- Un`har*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv. 

UNHASP:  To unloose the hasp of; to unclose. 

UNHAT:  To take off the hat of; to remove one's hat, especially as a mark of respect. H. Spenser. 

UNHEAL:  Misfortune; calamity; sickness. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNHEAL:  To uncover. See Unhele. [Obs.] 

UNHEALTH:  Unsoundness; disease. 

UNHEARD:  New; unprecedented; unparalleled. Swift. 

UNHEART:  To cause to lose heart; to dishearten. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNHEEDY:  Incautious; precipitate; heedless. [Obs.] Milton. 

UNHEIRED:  Destitute of an heir. To leave him utterly unheired. Chapman. 

UNHELE:  Same as Unheal, n. [Obs.] 

UNHELE:  To uncover. [Obs.] Spenser. Marston. 

UNHELM:  To deprive of the helm or helmet. Sir W. Scott. 

UNHELMED:  Divested or deprived of the helm or helmet.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + helm.]  Not wearing a helmet; without a helmet. Sir W. Scott. 

UNHELMET:  To deprive of the helmet. Sir W. Scott. 

UNHIDE:  To bring out from concealment; to discover. [Obs.] P. Fletcher. 

UNHINGEMENT:  The act unhinging, or the state of being unhinged. 

UNHITCH:  To free from being hitched, or as if from being hitched; to unfasten; to loose; as, to unhitch a horse, or a trace. 

UNHOARD:  To take or steal from a hoard; to pilfer. Milton. 

UNHOLD:  To cease to hold; to unhand; to release. [Obs.] Otway. 

UNHOLY:  Not holy; unhallowed; not consecrated; hence, profane; wicked; impious.  -- Un*ho"li*ly, adv.  -- Un*ho"li*ness, n. 

UNHONEST:  Dishonest; dishonorable. Ascham.  -- Un*hon"est*ly, adv. Udall. 

UNHOOD:  To remove a hood or disguise from. Quarterly Rev. 

UNHOOK:  To loose from a hook; to undo or open by loosening or unfastening the hooks of; as, to unhook a fish; to unhook a dress. 

UNHOOP:  To strip or deprive of hoops; to take away the hoops of. 

UNHOPED:  Not hoped or expected. "With unhoped success." Dryden. Blessings of friends, which to my door Unasked, unhoped, have come. J. N. Newman.  UNHOPED-FOR Un*hoped"-for, a.  Unhoped; unexpected. 

UNHORSE:  To throw from a horse; to cause to dismount; also, to take a horse or horses from; as, to unhorse a rider; to unhorse a carriage. Cowper. 

UNHOSED:  Without hose. 

UNHOSPITABLE:  Inhospitable. 

UNHOUSE:  To drive from a house or habitation; to dislodge; hence, to deprive of shelter. 

UNHOUSED:  Driven from a house; deprived of shelter.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- + housed.]  Not provided with a house or shelter; houseless; homeless. 

UNHOUSELED:  Not having received the sacrament. [Obs.] [Written also unhouselled.] To die like the houseless dog on yonder common, unshriven and unhouseled. Sir W. Scott. 

UNHUMAN:  Not human; inhuman. 

UNHUMANIZE:  To render inhuman or barbarous. J. Barlow. 

UNHUSKED:  Not husked; having the husk on.  2. Etym: [1 st pref. un- + husk, n.]  Having the husk removed; without husk. Bp. Hall.  UNI- U"ni-. Etym: [L. unus one. See One.]  A prefix signifying one, once; as in uniaxial, unicellular.  UNIAT; UNIATE U"ni*at, U"ni*ate, n. (Eccl.)  A member of the Greek Church, who nevertheless acknowledges the supremacy of the Pope of Rome; one of the United Greeks. Also used adjectively. 

UNIAXAL:  Uniaxial.  -- U`ni*ax"al*ly, adv. 

UNIAXIAL:  Having but one optic axis, or line of no double refraction.  Note: In uniaxial crystals, the optic axis has the direction of the vertical crystallographic axis. All tetragonal and hexagonal crystals are uniaxial.  2. (Biol.)  Having only one axis; developing along a single line or plane; -- opposed to multiaxial. 

UNIAXIALLY:  In a uniaxial manner. 

UNIBRANCHIATE:  Having but one gill, as certain molluscs. 

UNICAMERAL:  Having, or consisting of, a single chamber; -- said of a legislative assembly. [R.] F. Lieber. 

UNICAPSULAR:  Having but one capsule to each flower. 

UNICARINATED:  Having one ridge or keel. Craig. 

UNICELLED:  Unicellular. 

UNICELLULAR:  Having, or consisting of, but a single cell; as, a unicellular organism. 

UNICENTRAL:  Having a single center of growth. Unicentral development, that form of development which takes place primarily around a single central point, as in the lowest of unicellular organisms. 

UNICITY:  The condition of being united; quality of the unique; unification. Not unity, but what the schoolmen call unicity. De Quincey. The unicity we strive not to express, for that is impossible, but to designate by the nearest analogy. Coleridge. 

UNICLINAL:  See Nonoclinal. 

UNICOLOROUS:  Having the surface of a uniform color. 

UNICORN:  The kamichi; -- called also unicorn bird.  5. (Mil.)  A howitzer. [Obs.] Fossil unicorn, or Fossil unicorn's horn (Med.), a substance formerly of great repute in medicine; -- named from having been supposed to be the bone or the horn of the unicorn.  -- Unicorn fish, Unicorn whale (Zoöl.), the narwhal.  -- Unicorn moth (Zoöl.), a notodontian moth (Coelodasys unicornis) whose caterpillar has a prominent horn on its back; -- called also unicorn prominent.  -- Unicorn root (Bot.), a name of two North American plants, the yellow-flowered colicroot (Aletris farinosa) and the blazing star (Chamælirium luteum). Both are used in medicine.  -- Unicorn shell (Zoöl.), any one of several species of marine gastropods having a prominent spine on the lip of the shell. Most of them belong to the genera Monoceros and Leucozonia. 

UNICORNOUS:  Having but a single horn; -- said of certain insects. "Unicornous beetles." Sir T. Browne. 

UNICOSTATE:  Having a single rib or strong nerve running upward from the base; -- said of a leaf. 

UNICURSAL:  That can be passed over in a single course; -- said of a curve when the coördinates of the point on the curve can be expressed as rational algebraic functions of a single parameter th.  Note: As th varies minus infinity to plus infinity, to each value of th there corresponds one, and only one, point of the curve, while to each point on the curve there corresponds one, and only one, value of th. Straight lines, conic sections, curves of the third order with a nodal point, curves of the fourth order with three double points, etc., are unicursal. 

UNIDEAED:  Having no ideas; senseless; frivolous. "Unideaed girls." Mrs. Hemans. He [Bacon] received the unideaed page [Villiers] into his intimacy. Lord Campbell. 

UNIDIMENSIONAL:  Having but one dimension. See Dimension. 

UNIFACIAL:  Having but one front surface; as, some foliaceous corals are unifacial, the polyp mouths being confined to one surface. 

UNIFIC:  Making one or unity; unifying. 

UNIFICATION:  The act of unifying, or the state of being unified. Unification with God was the final aim of the Neoplatonicians. Fleming. 

UNIFIER:  One who, or that which, unifies; as, a natural law is a unifier of phenomena. 

UNIFILAR:  Having only one thread; involving the use of only one thread, wire, fiber, or the like; as, unifilar suspension. Unifilar magnetometer (Physics), an instrument which consists of a magnetic bar suspended at its center of gravity by a long thread, constituting a delicate means for accurately measuring magnetic intensities, also for determining declinations of the magnetic needle. 

UNIFLAGELLATE:  Having but one flagellum; as, uniflagellate organisms. 

UNIFLOROUS:  Bearing one flower only; as, a uniflorous peduncle. 

UNIFOLLIATE:  Having only one leaf. 

UNIFOLLILATE:  Having only one leaflet, as the leaves of the orange tree. 

UNIFORM:  A dress of a particular style or fashion worn by persons in the same service or order by means of which they have a distinctive appearance; as, the uniform of the artillery, of the police, of the Freemasons, etc. There are many things which, a soldier will do in his plain clothes which he scorns to do in his uniform. F. W. Robertson. In full uniform (Mil.), wearing the whole of the prescribed uniform, with ornaments, badges of rank, sash, side arms, etc.  -- Uniform sword, an officer's sword of the regulation pattern prescribed for the army or navy. 

UNIFORMAL:  Uniform. [Obs.] Herrick. 

UNIFORMISM:  The doctrine of uniformity in the geological history of the earth; -- in part equivalent to uniformitarianism, but also used, more broadly, as opposed to catastrophism. 

UNIFORMITARIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the view or doctrine that existing causes, acting in the same manner and with essentially the same intensity as at the present time, are sufficient to account for all geological changes. 

UNIFORMITARIAN:  One who accepts uniformitarianism, or the uniformitarian doctrine. 

UNIFORMITARIANISM:  The uniformitarian doctrine. 

UNIFORMLY:  In a uniform manner; without variation or diversity; by a regular, constant, or common ratio of change; with even tenor; as, a temper uniformly mild. To vary uniformly (Math.), to vary with the ratio of the corresponding increments constant; -- said of two dependent quantities with regard to each other. 

UNIFROMNESS:  The quality or state of being uniform; uniformity. 

UNIFY:  To cause to be one; to make into a unit; to unite; to view as one. A comprehensive or unifying act of the judging faculty. De Quincey. Perception is thus a unifying act. Sir W. Hamilton. 

UNIGENITURE:  The state of being the only begotten. [R.] Bp. Pearson. 

UNIGENOUS:  Being of one kind; being of the same genus. 

UNIJUGATE:  Having but one pair of leaflets; -- said of a pinnate leaf. 

UNILABIATE:  Having one lip only; as, a unilabiate corolla. 

UNILATERAL:  Pertaining to one side; one-sided; as, a unilateral raceme, in which the flowers grow only on one side of a common axis, or are all turned to one side. Unilateral contract (Law), a contract or engagement requiring future action only by one party. 

UNILITERAL:  Consisting of one letter only; as, a uniliteral word or sign. 

UNILOBAR:  Consisting of a single lobe. 

UNILOCULAR:  Having one cell or cavity only; as, a unilocular capsule or shell. 

UNIMITABLE:  Inimitable. [Obs.] 

UNIMPAIRABLE:  That can not be impaired. Hakewill. 

UNIMPEACHABLE:  Not impeachable; not to be called in question; exempt from liability to accusation; free from stain, guilt, or fault; irreproachable; blameless; as, an unimpeachable reputation; unimpeachable testimony. Burke.  -- Un`im*peach"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un`im*peach"a*bly, adv. 

UNIMPLICATE:  Not implicated. "Unimplicate in folly." R. Browning. 

UNIMPORTANCE:  Want of importance; triviality. Johnson. 

UNIMUSCULAR:  Having only one adductor muscle, and one muscular impression on each valve, as the oyster; monomyarian. 

UNINCUMBERED:  Free from any temporary estate or interest, or from mortgage, or other charge or debt; as, an estate unincumbered with dower. 

UNINFRINGIBLE:  That may not be infringed; as, an uninfringible monopoly. 

UNINTELLIGENCE:  Absence or lack of intelligence; unwisdom; ignorance. Bp. Hall. 

UNINTERESSED:  Uninterested; unaffected. [Obs.] Glanvill. 

UNINTERMISSION:  Want or failure of intermission. [R.] Bp. Parker. 

UNINUCLEATED:  Possessed of but a single nucleus; as, a uninucleated cell. 

UNIO:  Any one of numerous species of fresh-water mussels belonging to Unio and many allied genera. 

UNIOCULAR:  Of, pertaining to, or seated in, one eye; monocular. 

UNION:  A joint or other connection uniting parts of machinery, or the like, as the elastic pipe of a tender connecting it with the feed pipe of a locomotive engine; especially, a pipe fitting for connecting pipes, or pipes and fittings, in such a way as to facilitate disconnection.  8. (Brewing)  A cask suspended on trunnions, in which fermentation is carried on. Hypostatic union (Theol.) See under Hypostatic.  -- Latin union. See under Latin.  -- Legislative Union (Eng. Hist.), the union of Great Britain and Ireland, which took place Jan. 1, 1801.  -- Union, or Act of Union (Eng. Hist.), the act by which Scotland was united to England, or by which the two kingdoms were incorporated into one, in 1707.  -- Union by the first, or second, intention. (Surg.) See To heal by the first, or second, intention, under Intention.  -- Union down (Naut.), a signal of distress at sea made by reversing the flag, or turning its union downward.  -- Union jack. (Naut.) See Jack, n., 10.  -- Union joint. (Mech.) (a) A joint formed by means of a union. (b) A piece of pipe made in the form of the letter T.  Syn.  -- Unity; junction; connection; concord; alliance; coalition; combination; confederacy.  -- Union, Unity. Union is the act of bringing two or more things together so as to make but one, or the state of being united into one. Unity is a state of simple oneness, either of essence, as the unity of God, or of action, feeling, etc., as unity of design, of affection, etc. Thus, we may speak of effecting a union of interests which shall result in a unity of labor and interest in securing a given object. One kingdom, joy, and union without end. Milton. [Man] is to . . . beget Like of his like, his image multiplied. In unity defective; which requires Collateral love, and dearest amity. Milton. 

UNIONISTIC:  Of or pertaining to union or unionists; tending to promote or preserve union. 

UNIOVULATE:  Containing but one ovule. 

UNIPARA:  A woman who has borne one child. 

UNIPAROUS:  Producing but one egg or young at a time.  2. (Bot.)  Producing but one axis of inflorescence; -- said of the scorpioid cyme. 

UNIPED:  Having only one foot. Wright. 

UNIPERSONAL:  Used in only one person, especially only in the third person, as some verbs; impersonal. 

UNIPERSONALIST:  One who believes that the Deity is unipersonal. 

UNIPHONOUS:  Having but one sound, as the drum. [R.] 

UNIPLICATE:  Having, or consisting of, but one fold. 

UNIPOLAR:  Having, or acting by means of, one pole only.  2. (Anat.)  Having but one pole or process; -- applied to those ganglionic nerve cells which have but one radiating process; -- opposed to multipolar. Unipolar induction (Elec.), induction, as in a conducting circuit, by only one pole of a magnet.  -- Unipolar stimulation (Physiol.), the simulation sometimes produced when one electrode of an induction apparatus is applied to a nerve; -- called also unipolar induction action. Du Bois-Reymond. 

UNIQUE:  Being without a like or equal; unmatched; unequaled; unparalleled; single in kind or excellence; sole.  -- U*nique"ly, adv.  -- U*nique"ness, n. 

UNIQUE:  A thing without a like; something unequaled or unparalleled. [R.] The phenix, the unique pf birds. De Quincey. 

UNIQUITY:  The quality or state of being unique; uniqueness. [R.] Walpole. 

UNIRADIATED:  Having but one ray. 

UNIRAMOUS:  Having but one branch. 

UNISEPTATE:  Having but one septum, or partition; -- said of two-celled fruits, such as the silicles of cruciferous plants. 

UNISERIAL:  Having only one row or series. 

UNISERIATE:  Having one line or series; uniserial.  -- U`ni*se"ri*ate*ly, adv. 

UNISEXUAL:  Having one sex only, as plants which have the male and female flowers on separate individuals, or animals in which the sexes are in separate individuals; dioecious; -- distinguished from bisexual, or hermaphrodite. See Dioecious. 

UNISILICATE:  A salt of orthosilicic acid, H4SiO4; -- so called because the ratio of the oxygen atoms united to the basic metals and silicon respectively is 1:1; for example, Mg2SiO4 or 2MgO.SiO2. 

UNISON:  Identity in pitch; coincidence of sounds proceeding from an equality in the number of vibrations made in a given time by two or more sonorous bodies. Parts played or sung in octaves are also said to be in unison, or in octaves.  Note: If two cords of the same substance have equal length, thickness, and tension, they are said to be in unison, and their sounds will be in unison. Sounds of very different qualities and force may be in unison, as the sound of a bell may be in unison with a sound of a flute. Unison, then, consists in identity of pitch alone, irrespective of quality of sound, or timbre, whether of instruments or of human voices. A piece or passage is said to be sung or played in unison when all the voices or instruments perform the same part, in which sense unison is contradistinguished from harmony.  3. A single, unvaried. [R.] Pope. In unison, in agreement; agreeing in tone; in concord. 

UNISON:  Sounded alike in pitch; unisonant; unisonous; as, unison passages, in which two or more parts unite in coincident sound. 

UNISONAL:  Being in unison; unisonant.  -- U*nis"o*nal*ly, adv. 

UNISONANCE:  Accordance of sounds; unison. 

UNISONANT:  Being in unison; having the same degree of gravity or acuteness; sounded alike in pitch. 

UNISONOUS:  Being in unison; unisonant. Busby. 

UNIT:  The least whole number; one. Units are the integral parts of any large number. I. Watts.  3. A gold coin of the reign of James I., of the value of twenty shillings. Camden.  4. Any determinate amount or quantity (as of length, time, heat, value) adopted as a standard of measurement for other amounts or quantities of the same kind.  5. (Math.)  A single thing, as a magnitude or number, regarded as an undivided whole. Abstract unit, the unit of numeration; one taken in the abstract; the number represented by 1. The term is used in distinction from concrete, or determinate, unit, that is, a unit in which the kind of thing is expressed; a unit of measure or value; as 1 foot, 1 dollar, 1 pound, and the like.  -- Complex unit (Theory of Numbers), an imaginary number of the form a + b-1, when a2 + b2 = 1.  -- Duodecimal unit, a unit in the scale of numbers increasing or decreasing by twelves.  -- Fractional unit, the unit of a fraction; the reciprocal of the denominator; thus, unit of the fraction -- Integral unit, the unit of integral numbers, or 1.  -- Physical unit, a value or magnitude conventionally adopted as a unit or standard in physical measurements. The various physical units are usually based on given units of length, mass, and time, and on the density or other properties of some substance, for example, water. See Dyne, Erg, Farad, Ohm, Poundal, etc.  -- Unit deme (Biol.), a unit of the inferior order or orders of individuality.  -- Unit jar (Elec.), a small, insulated Leyden jar, placed between the electrical machine and a larger jar or battery, so as to announce, by its repeated discharges, the amount of electricity passed into the larger jar.  -- Unit of heat (Physics), a determinate quantity of heat adopted as a unit of measure; a thermal unit (see under Thermal). Water is the substance generally employed, the unit being one gram or one pound, and the temperature interval one degree of the Centigrade or Fahrenheit scale. When referred to the gram, it is called the gram degree. The British unit of heat, or thermal unit, used by engineers in England and in the United States, is the quantity of heat necessary to raise one pound of pure water at and near its temperature of greatest density (39.1º Fahr.) through one degree of the Fahrenheit scale. Rankine.  -- Unit of illumination, the light of a sperm candle burning 120 grains per hour. Standard gas, burning at the rate of five cubic feet per hour, must have an illuminating power equal to that of fourteen such candles.  -- Unit of measure (as of length, surface, volume, dry measure, liquid measure, money, weight, time, and the like), in general, a determinate quantity or magnitude of the kind designated, taken as a standard of comparison for others of the same kind, in assigning to them numerical values, as 1 foot, 1 yard, 1 mile, 1 square foot, 1 square yard, 1 cubic foot, 1 peck, 1 bushel, 1 gallon, 1 cent, 1 ounce, 1 pound, 1 hour, and the like; more specifically, the fundamental unit adopted in any system of weights, measures, or money, by which its several denominations are regulated, and which is itself defined by comparison with some known magnitude, either natural or empirical, as, in the United States, the dollar for money, the pound avoirdupois for weight, the yard for length, the gallon of 8.3389 pounds avoirdupois of water at 39.8º Fahr. (about 231 cubic inches) for liquid measure, etc.; in Great Britain, the pound sterling, the pound troy, the yard, or -- Unit of power. (Mach.) See Horse power.  -- Unit of resistance. (Elec.) See Resistance, n., 4, and Ohm.  -- Unit of work (Physics), the amount of work done by a unit force acting through a unit distance, or the amount required to lift a unit weight through a unit distance against gravitation. See Erg, Foot Pound, Kilogrammeter.  -- Unit stress (Mech. Physics), stress per unit of area; intensity of stress. It is expressed in ounces, pounds, tons, etc., per square inch, square foot, or square yard, etc., or in atmospheres, or inches of mercury or water, or the like. 

UNITABLE:  Capable of union by growth or otherwise. Owen. 

UNITARIAN:  One who denies the doctrine of the Trinity, believing that God exists only in one person; a unipersonalist; also, one of a denomination of Christians holding this belief.  2. One who rejects the principle of dualism.  3. A monotheist. [R.] Fleming. 

UNITARIAN:  Of or pertaining to Unitarians, or their doctrines. 

UNITARIANISM:  The doctrines of Unitarians. 

UNITARIANIZE:  To change or turn to Unitarian views. 

UNITE:  United; joint; as, unite consent. [Obs.] J. Webster. 

UNITED:  Combined; joined; made one. United Brethren. (Eccl.) See Moravian, n.  -- United flowers (Bot.), flowers which have the stamens and pistils in the same flower.  -- The United Kingdom, Great Britain and Ireland; -- so named since January 1, 1801, when the Legislative Union went into operation.  -- United Greeks (Eccl.), those members of the Greek Church who acknowledge the supremacy of the pope; -- called also uniats. 

UNITEDLY:  In an united manner. Dryden. 

UNITER:  One who, or that which, unites. 

UNITERABLE:  Not iterable; incapable of being repeated. [Obs.] "To play away an uniterable life." Sir T. Browne. 

UNITION:  The act of uniting, or the state of being united; junction. [Obs.] Wiseman. 

UNITIVE:  Having the power of uniting; causing, or tending to produce, union. Jer. Taylor. 

UNITIVELY:  In a unitive manner. Cudworth. 

UNITIZE:  To reduce to a unit, or one whole; to form into a unit; to unify. 

UNITUDE:  Unity. [R.] H. Spenser. 

UNITY:  Any definite quantity, or aggregate of quantities or magnitudes taken as one, or for which 1 is made to stand in calculation; thus, in a table of natural sines, the radius of the circle is regarded as unity.  Note: The number 1, when it is not applied to any particular thing, is generally called unity.  4. (Poetry & Rhet.)  In dramatic composition, one of the principles by which a uniform tenor of story and propriety of representation are preserved; conformity in a composition to these; in oratory, discourse, etc., the due subordination and reference of every part to the development of the leading idea or the eastablishment of the main proposition.  Note: In the Greek drama, the three unities required were those of action, of time, and of place; that is, that there should be but one main plot; that the time supposed should not exceed twenty-four hours; and that the place of the action before the spectators should be one and the same throughout the piece.  5. (Fine Arts & Mus.)  Such a combination of parts as to constitute a whole, or a kind of symmetry of style and character.  6. (Law)  The peculiar characteristics of an estate held by several in joint tenancy.  Note: The properties of it are derived from its unity, which is fourfold; unity of interest, unity of title, unity of time, and unity of possession; in other words, joint tenants have one and the same interest, accruing by one and the same conveyance, commencing at the same time, and held by one and the same undivided possession. Unity of possession is also a joint possession of two rights in the same thing by several titles, as when a man, having a lease of land, afterward buys the fee simple, or, having an easement in the land of another, buys the servient estate.  At unity, at one.  -- Unity of type. (Biol.) See under Type.  Syn.  -- Union; oneness; junction; concord; harmony. See Union. 

UNIVALENCE:  The quality or state of being univalent. 

UNIVALENT:  Having a valence of one; capable of combining with, or of being substituted for, one atom of hydrogen; monovalent; -- said of certain atoms and radicals. 

UNIVALVE:  A shell consisting of one valve only; a mollusk whose shell is composed of a single piece, as the snails and conchs.  Note: Most univalves are spiral and are the shells of gastropods, but many belong to cephalopods and pteropods. A large number of univalves belonging to the gastropods are conical, cup-shaped, or shieldlike, as the limpets.  UNIVALVE; UNIVALVED U"ni*valve, U"ni*valved, a. Etym: [Cf. F. univalve.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Having one valve; as, a univalve shell or pericarp. 

UNIVALVIA:  Same as Gastropoda. 

UNIVALVULAR:  Same as Univalve, a. 

UNIVARIANT:  Having one degree of freedom or variability. 

UNIVERSAL:  Adapted or adaptable to all or to various uses, shapes, sizes, etc.; as, a universal milling machine.  4. (Logic)  Forming the whole of a genus; relatively unlimited in extension; affirmed or denied of the whole of a subject; as, a universal proposition; -- opposed to particular; e. g. (universal affirmative) All men are animals; (universal negative) No men are omniscient. Universal chuck (Mach.), a chuck, as for a lathe, having jaws which can be moved simultaneously so as to grasp objects of various sizes.  -- Universal church, the whole church of God in the world; the catholic church. See the Note under Catholic, a., 1.  -- Universal coupling. (Mach.) Same as Universal joint, below.  -- Universal dial, a dial by which the hour may be found in any part of the world, or under any elevation of the pole.  -- Universal instrument (Astron.), a species of altitude and azimuth instrument, the peculiarity of which is, that the object end of the telescope is placed at right angles to the eye end, with a prism of total reflection at the angle, and the eye end constitutes a portion of the horizontal axis of the instrument, having the eyepiece at the pivot and in the center of the altitude circle, so that the eye has convenient access to both at the same time.  -- Universal joint (Mach.), a contrivance used for joining two shafts or parts of a machine endwise, so that the one may give rotary motion to the other when forming an angle with it, or may move freely in all directions with respect to the other, as by means of a cross connecting the forked ends of the two shafts (Fig. 1). Since this joint can not act when the angle of the shafts is less than 140º, a double joint of the same kind is sometimes used for giving rotary motion at angles less than 140º (Fig. 2).  -- Universal umbel (Bot.), a primary or general umbel; the first or largest set of rays in a compound umbel; -- opposed to partial umbel. A universal involucre is not unfrequently placed at the foot of a universal umbel.  Syn.  -- General; all; whole; total. See General. 

UNIVERSALIAN:  Of or pertaining to Universalism; Universalist. [R.] 

UNIVERSALISM:  The doctrine or belief that all men will be saved, or made happy, in the future state. 

UNIVERSALIST:  One who believes in Universalism; one of a denomination of Christians holding this faith.  2. One who affects to understand all the particulars in statements or propositions. [Obs.] Bentley. 

UNIVERSALIST:  Of or pertaining to Unversalists of their doctrines. 

UNIVERSALISTIC:  Of or pertaining to the whole; universal. 

UNIVERSALITY:  The quality or state of being universal; unlimited extension or application; generality; -- distinguished from particularity; as, the unversality of a proposition; the unversality of sin; the unversality of the Deluge. 

UNIVERSALIZE:  To make universal; to generalize. Coleridge. 

UNIVERSALLY:  In a universal manner; without exception; as, God's laws are universally binding on his creatures. 

UNIVERSALNESS:  The quality or state of being universal; universality. 

UNIVERSE:  All created things viewed as constituting one system or whole; the whole body of things, or of phenomena; the mundus of the Latins; the world; creation. How may I Adore thee, Author of this universe And all this good to man! Milton. 

UNIVERSITY:  The extension of the advantages of university instruction by means of lectures and classes at various centers. 

UNIVERSOLOGICAL:  Of or pertaining to universology. 

UNIVERSOLOGIST:  One who is versed in universology. 

UNIVERSOLOGY:  The science of the universe, and the relations which it involves. 

UNIVOCACY:  The quality or state of being univocal. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

UNIVOCAL:  A generic term, or a term applicable in the same sense to all the species it embraces.  2. A word having but one meaning. 

UNIVOCALLY:  In a univocal manner; in one term; in one sense; not equivocally. How is sin univocally distinguished into venial and mortal, if the venial be not sin Bp. Hall. 

UNIVOCATION:  Agreement of name and meaning. [Obs.] Whiston. 

UNJOIN:  To disjoin. 

UNJOINT:  To disjoint. 

UNJOINTED:  Having no joint or articulation; as, an unjointed stem. 

UNJUSTICE:  Want of justice; injustice. [Obs.] Hales. 

UNKARD:  See Unked. [Prov. Eng.] 

UNKE:  A European aquatic toad (Bombinator igneus). Its back is dark; its belly is marked with crimson. Called also feuerkröte. 

UNKEMMED:  Unkempt. [Obs.] 

UNKENT:  Unknown; strange. [Obs. or Scot.] W. Browne. 

UNKETH:  Uncouth. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

UNKIND:  Having no race or kindred; childless. [Obs. & R.] Shak. 

UNKINDLINESS:  Unkindness. Tennyson. 

UNKINDRED:  Not kindred; not of the same kin. [Obs.] Rowe.  -- Un*kin"dred*ly, a. 

UNKING:  To cause to cease to be a king. [R.] Shall his condescension, therefore, unking him South. 

UNKINGSHIP:  The quality or condition of being unkinged; abolition of monarchy. [Obs.] Unkingship was proclaimed, and his majesty's statues thrown down. Evelyn. 

UNKISS:  To cancel or annul what was done or sealed by a kiss; to cancel by a kiss. [Obs.] Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me. Shak. 

UNKLE:  See Uncle. [Obs.] 

UNKNIGHT:  To deprive of knighthood. Fuller. 

UNKNIT:  To undo or unravel what is knitted together. Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow. Shak. 

UNKNOT:  To free from knots; to untie. 

UNKNOW:  Unknown. [Obs.] "French of Paris was to her unknow." Chaucer. 

UNKNOWLEDGED:  Not acknowledged or recognized. [Obs.] For which bounty to us lent Of him unknowledged or unsent. B. Jonson. 

UNKNOWN:  Not known; not apprehended.  -- Un*known"ness, n. [R.] Camden. 

UNLACE:  To loose, and take off, as a bonnet from a sail, or to cast off, as any lacing in any part of the rigging of a vessel. Totten. 

UNLAND:  To deprive of lands. 

UNLAP:  To unfold. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNLASH:  To loose, as that which is lashed or tied down. 

UNLATCH:  To open or loose by lifting the latch; as, to unlatch a door. 

UNLAUGH:  To recall, as former laughter. [Obs. & R.] Sir T. More. 

UNLAW:  To impose a fine upon; to fine. 

UNLAWED:  Not having the claws and balls of the forefeet cut off; -- said of dogs. 

UNLAWFUL:  Not lawful; contrary to law.  -- Un*law"ful*ly, adv.  -- Un*law"ful*ness, n. Unlawful assembly. (Law) See under Assembly. 

UNLAWLIKE:  Not according to law; being or done in violation of law; unlawful. Milton. 

UNLAY:  To untwist; as, to unlay a rope. 

UNLEASH:  To free from a leash, or as from a leash; to let go; to release; as, to unleash dogs. 

UNLEAVENED:  Not leavened; containing no leaven; as, unleavened bread. 

UNLESS:  Upon any less condition than (the fact or thing stated in the sentence or clause which follows); if not; supposing that not; if it be not; were it not that; except; as, we shall fail unless we are industrious.  Note: By the omission of the verb in the dependent clause, unless was frequently used prepositionally, -- a construction common in Shakespeare and still employed colloquially. Here nothing breeds unless the nightly owl. Shak. 

UNLICKED:  Not licked; hence, not properly formed; ungainly. Cf. To lick into shape, under Lick, v. Shak. 

UNLIKELIHOOD:  Absence of likelihood. 

UNLIKELINESS:  The quality or state of being unlikely. 

UNLIKELY:  In an unlikely manner. 

UNLIKEN:  To make unlike; to dissimilate. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNLIKENESS:  The quality or state of being unlike; want of resemblance; dissimilarity. Tennyson. 

UNLIMBER:  To detach the limber from; as, to unlimber a gun. 

UNLIMITABLE:  Illimitable. Locke. 

UNLINE:  To take the lining out of; hence, to empty; as, to unline one's purse. 

UNLINK:  To separate or undo, as links; to uncoil; to unfasten. Shak. 

UNLIQUIDATED:  Not liquidated; not exactly ascertained; not adjusted or settled. Unliquidated damages (Law), penalties or damages not ascertained in money. Burrill. 

UNLISTED:  Not listed; specif. (New York Stock Exchange),  admitted to quotation in the unlisted department, that is, admitted to be dealt in on the floor, but not to the "regular list." 

UNLIVE:  To [R.] Glanvill. 

UNLIVED:  Bereft or deprived of life. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNLOAD:  To perform the act of unloading anything; as, let unload now. 

UNLOADER:  One who, or that which, unloads; a device for unloading, as hay from a wagon. 

UNLODGE:  To dislodge; to deprive of lodgment. Carew. 

UNLOOK:  To recall or retract, as a look. [R.] Richardson. 

UNLOOKED:  Not observed or foreseen; unexpected; -- generally with for. "Unlooked success." Denham. She comes unlooked for, if she comes at all. Pope.  UNLOOKED-FOR Un*looked"-for, a.  Not looked for; unexpected; as, an unlooked-for event. 

UNLOOSE:  To make loose; to loosen; to set free. Shak. 

UNLOOSE:  To become unfastened; to lose all connection or union. 

UNLOOSEN:  To loosen; to unloose. 

UNLORD:  To deprive of the rank or position of a lord. Milton. 

UNLORDED:  Deprived of the rank of a lord.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- + lorded.]  Not raised to the rank of a lord. Milton. 

UNLOVE:  To cease to love; to hate. [Obs.] 

UNLOVELY:  Not lovely; not amiable; possessing qualities that excite dislike; disagreeable; displeasing; unpleasant.  -- Un*love"li*ness, n. 

UNLUCKILY:  In an unlucky manner. 

UNLUCKINESS:  Quality or state of being unlucky. 

UNLUST:  Listlessness; disinclination. [Obs.] "Idleness and unlust." Chaucer. 

UNLUTE:  To separate, as things cemented or luted; to take the lute or the clay from. Boyle. 

UNMADE:  Not yet made or formed; as, an unmade grave. Shak.  2. Etym: [Properly p. p. of unmake.]  Deprived of form, character, etc.; disunited. 

UNMAGISTRATE:  To divest of the office or authority of a magistrate. [Obs.] Milton. 

UNMAIDEN:  To ravish; to deflower. [Obs.] 

UNMAKE:  To destroy the form and qualities of; to deprive of being; to uncreate. God does not make or unmake things to try experiments. T. Burnet. 

UNMANACLE:  To free from manacles. Tennyson. 

UNMANHOOD:  Absence or lack of manhood. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNMANNED:  Deprived of manly qualities; deficient in vigor, strength, courage, etc.; weak; effeminate.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + man + -ed.] (Falconry)  Not tamed; not made familiar with, or subject to, man; -- also used figuratively. [Obs.] Hood my unmanned blood bating in my cheeks With thy black mantle. Shak.  3. Etym: [Pref. un- not + manned.]  Not furnished with men; as, an unmanned ship. 

UNMANNERLY:  Not mannerly; ill-bred; rude.  -- adv.  Uncivilly; rudely.  -- Un*man"ner*li*ness, n. 

UNMANTLE:  To divest of a mantle; to uncover. Nay, she said, but I will unmantle you. Sir W. Scott. 

UNMARRY:  To annul the marriage of; to divorce. Milton. 

UNMARTYR:  To degrade from the rank of a martyr. [Obs.] Fuller. 

UNMASCULATE:  To emasculate. [Obs.] Fuller. 

UNMASK:  To strip of a mask or disguise; to lay open; to expose. 

UNMASK:  To put off a mask. Shak. 

UNMASTERABLE:  Incapable of being mastered or subdued. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

UNMATERIAL:  Not material; immaterial. [Obs.] Daniel. 

UNMEANT:  Not meant or intended; unintentional. Dryden. 

UNMEASURABLE:  Immeasurable. Swift.  -- Un*meas"ur*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*meas"ur*a*bly, adv. 

UNMECHANIZED:  Not mechanized. Paley. 

UNMEET:  Not meet or fit; not proper; unbecoming; unsuitable; -- usually followed by for. "Unmeet for a wife." Tennyson. And all unmeet our carpet floors. Emerson. -- Un*meet"ly, adv.  -- Un*meet"ness, n. 

UNMEMBER:  To deprive of membership, as in a church. 

UNMENTIONABLES:  The breeches; trousers. [Jocose] 

UNMERCHANTABLE:  Not merchantable; not fit for market; being of a kind, quality, or quantity that is unsalable. McElrath. 

UNMERCIED:  Unmerciful; merciless. [Obs.] Drayton. 

UNMERCIFUL:  Not merciful; indisposed to mercy or grace; cruel; inhuman; merciless; unkind.  -- Un*mer"ci*ful*ly, adv.  -- Un*mer"ci*ful*ness, n. 

UNMERCILESS:  Utterly merciless. [Obs.] Joye. 

UNMEW:  To release from confinement or restraint. Keats. 

UNMINGLE:  To separate, as things mixed. Bacon. 

UNMISTAKABLE:  Incapable of being mistaken or misunderstood; clear; plain; obvious; evident.  -- Un`mis*tak"a*bly, adv.  UNMITER; UNMITRE Un*mi"ter, Un*mi"tre, v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + miter.]  To deprive of a miter; to depose or degrade from the rank of a bishop. Milton.  UNMOLD; UNMOULD Un*mold", Un*mould", v. t. Etym: [1st pref. un- + mold.]  To change the form of; to reduce from any form. "Unmolding reason's mintage." Milton. 

UNMONEYED:  Destitute of money; not rich. [Written also unmonied.] Shenstone. 

UNMONOPOLIZE:  To recover or release from the state of being monopolized. [R.] Unmonopolizing the rewards of learning and industry. Milton. 

UNMOOR:  To weigh anchor. Sir W. Scott. 

UNMORAL:  Having no moral perception, quality, or relation; involving no idea of morality; -- distinguished from both moral and immoral.  -- Un`mo*ral"i*ty, n. 

UNMORALIZED:  Not restrained or tutored by morality. Norris. 

UNMORRISED:  Not arrayed in the dress of a morris dancer. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

UNMORTISE:  To loosen, unfix, or separate, as things mortised together. Tennyson.  UN-MOSAIC Un`-Mo*sa"ic, a.  Not according to Moses; unlike Moses or his works. By this reckoning Moses should be most un Mosaic. Milton. 

UNMOTHERED:  Deprived of a mother; motherless. 

UNMOVABLE:  Immovable. "Steadfast, unmovable." 1 Cor. xv. 58. Locke. 

UNMOVABLY:  Immovably. [R.] J. Ellis. 

UNMOVED:  Not moved; fixed; firm; unshaken; calm; apathetic.  -- Un*mov"ed*ly, adv. 

UNMUTABLE:  Immutable. [Obs.] 

UNMUZZLE:  To loose from a muzzle; to remove a muzzle from. 

UNNAIL:  To remove the nails from; to unfasten by removing nails. 

UNNAPPED:  Finished without a nap. I did not attempt her with a threadbare name, Unnapped with meritorious actions. Beau. & Fl. 

UNNATURAL:  Not natural; contrary, or not conforming, to the order of nature; being without natural traits; as, unnatural crimes.  Syn.  -- See Factitious.  -- Un*nat"u*ral*ly, adv.  -- Un*nat"u*ral*ness, n. 

UNNATURALIZE:  To make unnatural. [R.] Hales. 

UNNATURE:  To change the nature of; to invest with a different or contrary nature. [Obs.] A right heavenly nature, indeed, as if were unnaturing them, doth so bridle them [the elements]. Sir P. Sidney. 

UNNATURE:  The contrary of nature; that which is unnatural. [R.] So as to be rather unnature, after all, than nature. H. Bushnell. 

UNNEAR:  Not near; not close to; at a distance from. [Obs.] Davies (Muse's Sacrifice). 

UNNECESSARY:  Not necessary; not required under the circumstances; unless; needless; as, unnecessary labor, care, or rigor.  -- Un*nec"es*sa*ri*ly, adv.  -- Un*nec"es*sa*ri*ness, n. 

UNNECESSITY:  The state of being unnecessary; something unnecessary. [Obs.] 

UNNEIGHBORED:  Being without neigbors. Cowper. 

UNNEIGHBORLY:  Not neighborly; distant; reserved; solitary; exclusive.  -- adv.  Not in a neighborly manner. Shak. 

UNNERVATE:  Enervate. [Obs.] 

UNNERVE:  To deprive of nerve, force, or strength; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, to unnerve the arm. Unequal match'd, . . . The unnerved father falls. Shak. 

UNNEST:  To eject from a nest; to unnestle. [R.] T. Adams. 

UNNESTLE:  Same as Unnest. [R.]  UNNETHE; UNNETHES Un*nethe", Un*nethes", adv.  With difficulty. See Uneath. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNNOBLE:  Ignoble. Shak. 

UNNOBLY:  Ignobly. J. Fletcher. 

UNNOOKED:  Without nooks and corners; guileless. [Obs.] "Unnooked simplicity." Marston. 

UNNOTIFY:  To retract or withdraw a notice of. Walpole. 

UNNUMBERED:  Not numbered; not counted or estimated; innumerable. Dryden. 

UNNUMERABLE:  Innumerable. [Obs.] "An unnumerable multitude." Udall. 

UNNUN:  To remove from condition of being a nun. [R.] Many did quickly unnun and disfriar themselves. Fuller. 

UNOBEDIENCE:  Disobedience. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNOBEDIENT:  Disobedient. [Obs.] Milton. 

UNOBSERVANCE:  Want or neglect of observance; inobservance. Whitlock. 

UNOBTRUSIVE:  Not obtrusive; not presuming; modest.  -- Un`ob*tru"sive*ly, adv.  -- Un`ob*tru"sive*ness, n. 

UNOFFENSIVE:  Inoffensive. 

UNOFTEN:  Not often. [Obs.] 

UNOIL:  To remove the oil from. Dryden. 

UNOPERATIVE:  Producing no effect; inoperative. [Obs.] South. 

UNOPERCULATED:  Destitute of an operculum, or cover. 

UNORDER:  To countermand an order for. [R.] 

UNORDERLY:  Disorderly. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. 

UNORDINATE:  Disorderly; irregular; inordinate. [R.] -- Un*or"di*nate*ly, adv. [R.] 

UNORGANIZED:  Not organized; being without organic structure; specifically (Biol.), not having the different tissues and organs characteristic of living organisms, nor the power of growth and development; as, the unorganized ferments. See the Note under Ferment, n., 1. 

UNORIGINATELY:  Without origin. 

UNOSSIFIED:  Destitute of a bony structure. 

UNPACKER:  One who unpacks. 

UNPAGANIZE:  To cause to cease to be pagan; to divest of pagan character. [R.] Cudworth. 

UNPAINT:  To remove the paint from; to efface, as a painting. Parnell. 

UNPAIRED:  Not paired; not suited or matched. And minds unpaired had better think alone. Crabbe. 

UNPALPED:  Destitute of a palp. 

UNPANNEL:  To take the saddle off; to unsaddle. [Obs.] Jervas. 

UNPARADISE:  To deprive of happiness like that of paradise; to render unhappy. [R.] Young. 

UNPARAGONED:  Having no paragon or equal; matchless; peerless. [R.] Your unparagoned mistress is dead. Shak. 

UNPARALLELED:  Having no parallel, or equal; unequaled; unmatched. The unparalleled perseverance of the armies of the United States, under every suffering and discouragement, was little short of a miracle. Washington. 

UNPARCHED:  Dried up; withered by heat. [Obs.] "My tongue . . . unparched." Crashaw. 

UNPARDONABLE:  Not admitting of pardon or forgiveness; inexcusable. 

UNPARENTED:  Having no parent, or no acknowledged parent. [R.] 

UNPARLIAMENTARY:  Not parliamentary; contrary to the practice of parliamentary bodies.  -- Un*par`lia*men"ta*ri*ness, n. 

UNPARTIAL:  Impartial. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.  -- Un*par"tial*ly, adv. [Obs.] Hooker. 

UNPASSABLE:  Impassable. E. A. Freeman.  -- Un*pass"a*ble*ness, n. Evelyn. 

UNPASSIONATE:  Not passionate; dispassionate.  -- Un*pas"sion*ate*ly, adv. 

UNPASTOR:  To cause to be no longer pastor; to deprive of pastorship. [R.] Fuller. 

UNPATHED:  Not having a path. Shak. 

UNPATHWAYED:  Pathless. [R.] "The smooth, unpathwayed plain." Wordsworth. 

UNPATIENCE:  Impatience. [Obs.] 

UNPATIENT:  Impatient. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNPAY:  To undo, take back, or annul, as a payment. Shak. 

UNPEACE:  Absence or lack of peace. [Obs.] Testament of Love. 

UNPEDIGREED:  Not distinguished by a pedigree. [R.] Pollok. 

UNPEELED:  Thoroughly stripped; pillaged. [Obs.] Shak.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + peeled.]  Not peeled. 

UNPEERABLE:  Incapable of having a peer, or equal. 

UNPEERED:  Having no peer; unequaled; unparalleled. "Unpeered excellence." Marston. 

UNPEG:  To remove a peg or pegs from; to unfasten; to open. Shak. 

UNPEN:  To release from a pen or from confinement. "If a man unpens another's water." Blackstone. 

UNPENETRABLE:  Impenetrable. 

UNPENITENT:  Impenitent. Sandys. 

UNPEOPLE:  To deprive of inhabitants; to depopulate. Shak. 

UNPEREGAL:  Unequal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNPERFECT:  To mar or destroy the perfection of. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

UNPERFECT:  Imperfect. [Obs.] Holland.  -- Un*per"fect*ly, adv. [Obs.] Hales.  -- Un*per"fect*ness, n. [Obs.] 

UNPERFECTION:  Want of perfection; imperfection. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNPERISHABLE:  Imperishable. 

UNPERISHABLY:  Imperishably. 

UNPERPLEX:  To free from perplexity. [R.] Donne. 

UNPERSUASION:  The state of not being persuaded; disbelief; doubt. [R.] Abp. Leighton. 

UNPERVERT:  To free from perversion; to deliver from being perverted; to reconvert. [Obs.] 

UNPHILOSOPHIZE:  To degrade from the character of a philosopher. [R.] Pope. 

UNPICK:  To pick out; to undo by picking. 

UNPICKED:  Picked out; picked open.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + picked.]  Not picked. Milton. 

UNPIN:  To loose from pins; to remove the pins from; to unfasten; as, to unpin a frock; to unpin a frame. 

UNPINION:  To loose from pinions or manacles; to free from restraint. Goldsmith. 

UNPITOUSTY:  Impiety. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNPITY:  Want of piety. [Obs.] 

UNPLACABLE:  Implacable. [Obs.] 

UNPLACED:  Not placed. 

UNPLAID:  To deprive of a plaid. 

UNPLAINED:  Not deplored or bewailed; unlamented. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UNPLAT:  To take out the folds or twists of, as something previously platted; to unfold; to unwreathe. 

UNPLAUSIVE:  Not approving; disapproving. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNPLEASANT:  Not pleasant; not amiable or agreeable; displeasing; offensive.  -- Un*pleas"ant*ly, adv.  -- Un*pleas"ant*ness, n. 

UNPLEASIVE:  Unpleasant. [Obs.] "An unpleasive passion." Bp. Hall. 

UNPLEAT:  To remove the plaits of; to smooth. W. Browne. 

UNPLIGHT:  To unfold; to lay open; to explain. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNPLUMB:  To deprive of lead, as of a leaden coffin. [R.] Burke. 

UNPLUME:  To strip of plumes or feathers; hence, to humiliate. 

UNPOISON:  To remove or expel poison from. [Obs.] South. 

UNPOLISH:  To deprive of polish; to make impolite. 

UNPOLITE:  Not polite; impolite; rude.  -- Un`po*lite"ly, adv.  -- Un`po*lite"ness, n. 

UNPOLITIC:  Impolitic; imprudent. 

UNPOLLED:  Not polled. Specifically: (a) Not enumerated or registered; as, an unpolled vote or voter. (b) Not plundered. [Obs.] "Unpoll'd Arabian wealth." Fanshawe. 

UNPORTUNATE:  Importunate; troublesome with requests. [Obs.] Golden Boke. 

UNPORTUOUS:  Having no ports. [Obs.] "An unportuous coast." Burke. 

UNPOSSESS:  To be without, or to resign, possession of. [Obs.] 

UNPOSSIBILITY:  Impossibility. [R.] "Utter unpossibility." Poe. 

UNPOSSIBLE:  Impossible. [R.] 

UNPOWER:  Want of power; weakness. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

UNPOWERFUL:  Not powerful; weak. Cowley. 

UNPRACTICABLE:  Impracticable; not feasible. 

UNPRACTICAL:  Not practical; impractical. "Unpractical questions." H. James. I like him none the less for being unpractical. Lowell. 

UNPRAISE:  To withhold praise from; to deprive of praise. [R.] 

UNPRAY:  To revoke or annul by prayer, as something previously prayed for. [R.] Sir M. Hale. 

UNPRAYABLE:  Not to be influenced or moved by prayers; obdurate. [R.] Wyclif. 

UNPRAYED:  Not prayed for. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

UNPREACH:  To undo or overthrow by preaching. [R.] De Foe. 

UNPRECEDENTED:  Having no precedent or example; not preceded by a like case; not having the authority of prior example; novel; new; unexampled.  -- Un*prec"e*dent*ed*ly, adv. 

UNPREDICT:  To retract or falsify a previous prediction. Milton. 

UNPRELATED:  Deposed from the office of prelate. 

UNPRICED:  Not priced; being without a fixed or certain value; also, priceless. "Amethyst unpriced." Neale (Rhythm of St. Bernard). 

UNPRIEST:  To deprive of priesthood; to unfrock. [R.] Milton. 

UNPRINCE:  To deprive of the character or authority of a prince; to divest of principality of sovereignty. [R.] Swift. 

UNPRINCIPLE:  To destroy the moral principles of. [R.] 

UNPRINCIPLED:  Being without principles; especially, being without right moral principles; also, characterized by absence of principle.  -- Un*prin"ci*pled*ness, n. 

UNPRISON:  To take or deliver from prison. 

UNPROBABLY:  Improbably. 

UNPROBABLY:  In a manner not to be approved of; improperly. [Obs. & R.] To diminish, by the authority of wise and knowing men, things unjustly and unprobably crept in. Strype. 

UNPROFICIENCY:  Want of proficiency or improvement. Bp. Hall. 

UNPROFIT:  Want of profit; unprofitableness. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNPROFITED:  Profitless. [R.] Shak. 

UNPROMISE:  To revoke or annul, as a promise. Chapman. 

UNPROP:  To remove a prop or props from; to deprive of support. 

UNPROPER:  Not proper or peculiar; improper. [Obs.] -- Un*prop"er*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

UNPROSELYTE:  To convert or recover from the state of a proselyte. Fuller. 

UNPROTESTANTIZE:  To render other than Protestant; to cause to change from Protestantism to some other form of religion; to deprive of some Protestant feature or characteristic. The attempt to unprotestantize the Church of England. Froude. 

UNPROVIDE:  To deprive of necessary provision; to unfurnish. Lest her . . . beauty unprovide my mind again. Shak. 

UNPROVIDENT:  Improvident. [Obs.] "Who for thyself art so unprovident.' Shak. 

UNPRUDENCE:  Imprudence. [Obs.] 

UNPRUDENT:  Imprudent. [Obs.] 

UNPRUDENTIAL:  Imprudent. [Obs.] "The most unwise and unprudential act." Milton. 

UNPUCKER:  To smooth away the puckers or wrinkles of. 

UNPURE:  Not pure; impure.  -- Un*pure"ly, adv.  -- Un*pure"ness, n. 

UNQUALIFY:  To disqualify; to unfit. Swift. 

UNQUALITIED:  Deprived of the usual faculties. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNQUEEN:  To divest of the rank or authority of queen. Shak. 

UNQUICK:  Not quick. [R.] Daniel. 

UNQUIET:  To disquiet. [Obs.] Ld. Herbert. 

UNQUIET:  Not quiet; restless; uneasy; agitated; disturbed.  -- Un*qui"et*ly, adv.  -- Un*qui"et*ness, n. 

UNQUIETUDE:  Uneasiness; inquietude. 

UNRAVEL:  To become unraveled, in any sense. 

UNRAVELMENT:  The act of unraveling, or the state of being unraveled. 

UNRAZORED:  Not shaven. [R.] Milton. 

UNREADINESS:  The quality or state of being unready. 

UNREADY:  To undress. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

UNREAL:  Not real; unsubstantial; fanciful; ideal. 

UNREALITY:  The quality or state of being unreal; want of reality. 

UNREALIZE:  To make unreal; to idealize. His fancy . . . unrealizes everything at a touch. Lowell. 

UNREALLY:  In an unreal manner; ideally. 

UNREASON:  Want of reason; unreasonableness; absurdity. Abbot of Unreason. See Abbot of Misrule, under Abbot. 

UNREASON:  To undo, disprove, or refute by reasoning. [Obs.] To unreason the equity of God's proceedings. South. 

UNREASONABLE:  Not reasonable; irrational; immoderate; exorbitant.  -- Un*rea"son*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*rea"son*a*bly, adv. 

UNREASONED:  Not supported by reason; unreasonable. "Unreasoned habits." Burke. 

UNREAVE:  To unwind; to disentangle; to loose. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UNREAVED:  Not torn, split, or parted; not torn to pieces. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

UNREBUKABLE:  Not deserving rebuke or censure; blameless. 1 Tim. vi. 14. 

UNRECURING:  Incurable. [Obs.] "Some unrecuring wound." Shak. 

UNREDEEMED:  Not redeemed. 

UNREEVE:  To withdraw, or take out, as a rope from a block, thimble, or the like. 

UNREFORMATION:  Want of reformation; state of being unreformed. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

UNREGENERACY:  The quality or state of being unregenerate. Glanvill.  UNREGENERATE; UNREGENERATED Un`re*gen"er*ate, Un`re*gen"er*a`ted, a.  Not regenerated; not renewed in heart; remaining or being at enmity with God. 

UNREGENERATION:  Unregeneracy. 

UNREIN:  To loosen the reins of; to remove restraint from. Addison. 

UNRELENTING:  Not relenting; unyielding; rigid; hard; stern; cruel.  -- Un`re*lent"ing*ly, adv.  -- Un`re*lent"ing*ness, n. 

UNRELIABLE:  Not reliable; untrustworthy. See Reliable.  -- Un`re*li"a*ble*ness, n. Alcibiades . . . was too unsteady, and (according to Mr. Coleridge's coinage) "unreliable;" or perhaps, in more correct English, too "unrelyuponable." De Quincey. 

UNRELIGIOUS:  Irreligious. Wordsworth. 

UNREMEMBRANCE:  Want of remembrance; forgetfulness. I. Watts. 

UNREMITTING:  Not remitting; incessant; continued; persevering; as, unremitting exertions. Cowper.  -- Un`re*mit"ting*ly, adv.  -- Un`re*mit"ting*ness, n. 

UNREMORSELESS:  Utterly remorseless. [Obs. & R.] "Unremorseless death." Cowley. 

UNREPENTANCE:  Impenitence. [R.] 

UNREPRIEVABLE:  Not capable of being reprieved. Shak. 

UNREPROACHABLE:  Not liable to be reproached; irreproachable. 

UNREPUTABLE:  Disreputable. 

UNRESERVE:  Absence of reverse; frankness; freedom of communication. T. Warton. 

UNRESERVED:  Not reserved; not kept back; not withheld in part; unrestrained.  -- Un`re*serv"ed*ly, adv.  -- Un`re*serv"ed*ness, n. 

UNRESISTANCE:  Nonresistance; passive submission; irresistance. Bp. Hall. 

UNRESISTIBLE:  Irresistible. W. Temple. 

UNRESPECT:  Disrespect. [Obs.] "Unrespect of her toil." Bp. Hall. 

UNRESPONSIBLE:  Irresponsible. Fuller.  -- Un`re*spon"si*ble*ness, n. 

UNREST:  Want of rest or repose; unquietness; sleeplessness; uneasiness; disquietude. Is this, quoth she, the cause of your unrest! Chaucer. Can calm despair and wild unrest Be tenants of a single breast Tennyson. 

UNRESTRAINT:  Freedom from restraint; freedom; liberty; license. 

UNRESTY:  Causing unrest; disquieting; as, unresty sorrows. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNREVENUED:  Not furnished with a revenue. [R.] Milton. 

UNREVERENCE:  Absence or lack of reverence; irreverence. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNREVERENT:  Irreverent. [R.] Shak. 

UNREVERENTLY:  Irreverently. [R.] B. Jonson. 

UNRIDDLE:  To read the riddle of; to solve or explain; as, to unriddle an enigma or a mystery. Macaulay. And where you can't unriddle, learn to trust. Parnell. 

UNRIDDLER:  One who unriddles. Lovelace. 

UNRIG:  To strip of rigging; as, to unrig a ship. Totten. 

UNRIGHT:  Not right; wrong. [Obs.] Gower. 

UNRIGHT:  A wrong. [Obs.] Nor did I you never unright. Chaucer. 

UNRIGHT:  To cause (something right) to become wrong. [Obs.] Gower. 

UNRIGHTWISE:  Unrighteous. [Obs.] Wyclif.  -- Un*right"wise`ly, adv. [Obs.] 

UNRINGED:  Not having a ring, as in the nose. "Pigs unringed." Hudibras. 

UNRIOTED:  Free from rioting. [Obs.] "A chaste, unrioted house." May (Lucan). 

UNRIP:  To rip; to cut open. Bacon. 

UNRIPENESS:  Quality or state of being unripe. 

UNRIVALED:  Having no rival; without a competitor; peerless. [Spelt also unrivalled.] Pope. 

UNRIVET:  To take out, or loose, the rivets of; as, to unrivet boiler plates. 

UNROBE:  To disrobe; to undress; to take off the robes. 

UNROLL:  Not subjected to the principles or usages of the Roman Catholic Church. 

UNROOF:  To strip off the roof or covering of, as a house. Shak. 

UNROOFED:  Stripped of a roof, or similar covering. Broken carriages, dead horses, unroofed cottages, all indicated the movements. Sir W. Scott.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + roofed.]  Not yet roofed. 

UNROOST:  To drive from the roost. Shak. 

UNROOT:  To tear up by the roots; to eradicate; to uproot. 

UNROOT:  To be torn up by the roots. Beau. & Fl. 

UNRUFFLE:  To cease from being ruffled or agitated. Dryden. 

UNRUFFLED:  Not ruffled or agitated; smooth; calm; tranquil; quiet. Calm and unruffled as a summer's sea. Addison.  UNRUINATE; UNRUINATED Un*ru"in*ate, Un*ru"in*a`ted, a.  Not ruined or destroyed. [Obs.] "Unruinated towers." Bp. Hall. 

UNRULIMENT:  Unruliness. [Obs.] "Breaking forth with rude unruliment." Spenser. 

UNRULINESS:  Quality or state unruly. 

UNRULY:  Not submissive to rule; disregarding restraint; disposed to violate; turbulent; ungovernable; refractory; as, an unruly boy; unruly boy; unruly conduct. But the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. James iii. 8. 

UNRUMPLE:  To free from rumples; to spread or lay even, 

UNSACRAMENT:  To deprive of sacramental character or efficacy; as, to unsacrament the rite of baptism. [Obs.] 

UNSAD:  Unsteady; fickle. [Obs.] O, stormy people, unsad and ever untrue. Chaucer. 

UNSADDEN:  To relieve from sadness; to cheer. [R.] Whitlock. 

UNSADNESS:  Infirmity; weakness. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNSAFETY:  The quality or state of being in peril; absence of safety; insecurity. Bacon. 

UNSAINT:  To deprive of saintship; to deny sanctity to. [R.] South. 

UNSAINTLY:  Unbecoming to a saint. Gauden. 

UNSALABLE:  Not salable; unmerchantable.  -- n.  That which can not be sold. Byron. 

UNSANCTIFICATION:  Absence or lack of sanctification. Shak. 

UNSATIABILITY:  Quality of being unsatiable; insatiability. [Obs.] 

UNSATIABLE:  Insatiable. [Obs.] Hooker.  -- Un*sa"ti*a*ble*ness, n. [Obs.] -- Un*sa"ti*a*bly, adv. [Obs.] 

UNSATIATE:  Insatiate. Dr. H. More. 

UNSATISFACTION:  Dissatisfaction. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

UNSATURATED:  Capable of taking up, or of uniting with, certain other elements or compounds, without the elimination of any side product; thus, aldehyde, ethylene, and ammonia are unsaturated. 

UNSATURATION:  The quality or state of being unsaturated. 

UNSAY:  To recant or recall, as what has been said; to refract; to take back again; to make as if not said. You can say and unsay things at pleasure. Goldsmith. 

UNSCALE:  To divest of scales; to remove scales from. [An eagle] purging and unscaling her long-abused sight at the fountain itself of heavenly radiance. Milton. 

UNSCAPABLE:  Not be escaped; inevitable. [Obs.] Wyclif.  UNSCEPTERED; UNSCEPTRED Un*scep"tered, Un*scep"tred, a.  1. Etym: [Pref. un- not + sceptered.]  Having no scepter.  2. Etym: [1st pref. un- + scepter.]  Deprived of a scepter. 

UNSCIENCE:  Want of science or knowledge; ignorance. [Obs.] If that any wight ween a thing to be otherwise than it is, it is not only unscience, but it is deceivable opinion. Chaucer. 

UNSCREW:  To draw the screws from; to loose from screws; to loosen or withdraw (anything, as a screw) by turning it. 

UNSCRUPULOUS:  Not scrupulous; unprincipled.  -- Un*scru"pu*lous*ly, adv.  -- Un*scru"pu*lous*ness, n. 

UNSCRUTABLE:  Inscrutable. [R.] 

UNSCUTCHEONED:  Destitute of an escutcheon. [R.] Pollock. 

UNSEAM:  To open the seam or seams of; to rip; to cut; to cut open. Shak. 

UNSEARCHABLE:  Not searchable; inscrutable; hidden; mysterious. The counsels of God are to us unsearchable. Rogers. -- Un*search"a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*search"a*bly, adv. 

UNSEASONABLE:  Not seasonable; being, done, or occurring out of the proper season; ill-timed; untimely; too early or too late; as, he called at an unseasonable hour; unseasonable advice; unseasonable frosts; unseasonable food.  -- Un*sea"son*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*sea"son*a*bly, adv. 

UNSECRET:  To disclose; to divulge. [Obs.] Bacon. 

UNSECRET:  Not secret; not close; not trusty; indiscreet. [Obs.] "We are unsecret to ourselves." Shak. 

UNSECULARIZE:  To cause to become not secular; to detach from secular things; to alienate from the world. 

UNSECURE:  Insecure. [R.] Milton. 

UNSEEL:  To open, as the eyes of a hawk that have been seeled; hence, to give light to; to enlighten. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

UNSEEM:  Not to seem. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNSEEMING:  Unbeseeming; not fit or becoming. 

UNSEEMLINESS:  The quality or state of being unseemly; unbecomingness. Udall. 

UNSEEMLY:  Not seemly; unbecoming; indecent. An unseemly outbreak of temper. Hawthorne. 

UNSEEMLY:  In an unseemly manner. 

UNSELDOM:  Not seldom; frequently. [R.] 

UNSELY:  Not blessed or happy; wretched; unfortunate. [Written also unsilly.] [Obs.] Chaucer.  -- Un*se"li*ness, n. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNSEMINARED:  Deprived of virility, or seminal energy; made a eunuch. [Obs.] 

UNSENSED:  Wanting a distinct meaning; having no certain signification. [R.] Puller. 

UNSENSIBLE:  Insensible. [Obs.] 

UNSENSUALIZE:  To elevate from the domain of the senses; to purify. Coleridge. 

UNSEPARABLE:  Inseparable. [Obs.] "In love unseparable." Shak. 

UNSERVICE:  Neglect of duty; idleness; indolence. [Obs.] Massinger. 

UNSET:  Not set; not fixed or appointed. 

UNSETTLE:  To move or loosen from a settled position or state; to unfix; to displace; to disorder; to confuse. 

UNSETTLE:  To become unsettled or unfixed; to be disordered. Shak. 

UNSETTLEDNESS:  The quality or state of being unsettled. 

UNSETTLEMENT:  The act of unsettling, or state of being unsettled; disturbance. J. H. Newman. 

UNSEVEN:  To render other than seven; to make to be no longer seven. [Obs. & R.] "To unseven the sacraments of the church of Rome." Fuller. 

UNSEW:  To undo, as something sewn, or something inclosed by sewing; to rip apart; to take out the stitches of. 

UNSEX:  To deprive of sex, or of qualities becoming to one's sex; esp., to make unfeminine in character, manners, duties, or the like; as, to unsex a woman. 

UNSEXUAL:  Not sexual; not proper or peculiar to one of the sexes. De Quincey. 

UNSHACKLE:  To loose from shackles or bonds; to set free from restraint; to unfetter. Addison. 

UNSHAKABLE:  Not capable of being shaken; firm; fixed. Shak. J. S. Mill. 

UNSHAKED:  Unshaken. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNSHALE:  To strip the shale, or husk, from; to uncover. [Obs.] I will not unshale the jest before it be ripe. Marston. 

UNSHAPE:  To deprive of shape, or of proper shape; to disorder; to confound; to derange. [R.] Shak.  UNSHAPED; UNSHAPEN Un*shaped", Un*shap"en, a. Etym: [Pref. un- not + shaped, shapen.]  Not shaped; shapeless; misshapen; deformed; ugly. 

UNSHEATHE:  To deprive of a sheath; to draw from the sheath or scabbard, as a sword. To unsheathe the sword, to make war. 

UNSHELL:  To strip the shell from; to take out of the shell; to hatch. 

UNSHELVE:  To remove from, or as from, a shelf. 

UNSHENT:  Not shent; not disgraced; blameless. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

UNSHERIFF:  To depose from the office of sheriff. [R.] 

UNSHET:  To unshut. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNSHIP:  To remove or detach, as any part or implement, from its proper position or connection when in use; as, to unship an oar; to unship capstan bars; to unship the tiller. 

UNSHIPMENT:  The act of unshipping, or the state of being unshipped; displacement. 

UNSHOT:  To remove the shot from, as from a shotted gun; to unload. 

UNSHOT:  Not hit by a shot; also, not discharged or fired off. 

UNSHOUT:  To recall what is done by shouting. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNSHROUD:  To remove the shroud from; to uncover. P. Fletcher. 

UNSHRUBBED:  Being without shrubs. 

UNSHUT:  To open, or throw open. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNSHUTTER:  To open or remove the shutters of. T. Hughes. 

UNSIGHT:  Doing or done without sight; not seeing or examining. [Colloq.] Unsight unseen, a colloquial phrase, denoting unseeing unseen, or unseen repeated; as, to buy a thing unsight unseen, that is, without seeing it. For to subscribe, unsight, unseen, To a new church discipline. Hudibras. There was a great confluence of chapmen, that resorted from every part, with a design to purchase, which they were to do "unsight unseen." Spectator. 

UNSIGHTABLE:  Invisible. [Obs.] 

UNSIGHTED:  Not aimed by means of a sight; also, not furnished with a sight, or with a properly adjusted sight; as, to shoot and unsighted rife or cannon. 

UNSIGNIFICANT:  Insignificant. [Obs.] Holland. 

UNSILLY:  See Unsely. [Obs.] 

UNSIMPLICITY:  Absence of simplicity; artfulness. C. Kingsley. 

UNSIN:  To deprive of sinfulness, as a sin; to make sinless. [Obs.] Feltham. 

UNSINCERE:  Not sincere or pure; insincere. [Obs.] Dryden.  -- Un`sin*cere"ness, n. [Obs.] 

UNSINCERITY:  The quality or state of being unsincere or impure; insincerity. [Obs.] Boyle. 

UNSINEW:  To deprive of sinews or of strength. [R.] Dryden. 

UNSISTER:  To separate, as sisters; to disjoin. [Poetic & R.] Tennyson. 

UNSISTERLY:  Not sisterly. Richardson. 

UNSISTING:  Unresisting. [Obs.] "The unsisting postern." Shak. 

UNSITTING:  Not sitting well; unbecoming. [Obs.] "Unsitting words." Sir T. More. 

UNSKILL:  Want of skill; ignorance; unskillfulness. [Obs.] Sylvester. 

UNSLACKED:  Not slacked; unslaked; as, unslacked lime. 

UNSLAKED:  Not slaked; unslacked; as, an unslaked thirst; unslaked lime. 

UNSLING:  To take off the slings of, as a yard, a cask, or the like; to release from the slings. Totten. 

UNSLUICE:  To sluice; to open the sluice or sluices of; to let flow; to discharge. Dryden. 

UNSOCIABILITY:  The quality or state of being unsociable; unsociableness. 

UNSOCIABLE:  Not sociable; not inclined to society; averse to companionship or conversation; solitary; reserved; as, an unsociable person or temper.  -- Un*so"cia*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*so"cia*bly, adv. 

UNSOCKET:  To loose or take from a socket. 

UNSOFT:  Not soft; hard; coarse; rough. [Obs.] "Bristles of his beard unsoft." Chaucer. 

UNSOFT:  Not softly. [Obs.] Great climbers fall unsoft. Spenser. 

UNSOLDER:  To separate or disunite, as what has been soldered; hence, to divide; to sunder. [Formerly written also unsoder.] Tennyson. 

UNSOLDIERED:  Not equipped like a soldier; unsoldierlike. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 

UNSOLEMNIZE:  To divest of solemnity. 

UNSONABLE:  Incapable of being sounded. [Obs.] 

UNSONSY:  Not soncy (sonsy); not fortunate. [Scot.] 

UNSOOT:  Not sweet. [Obs.] Spenser.  UNSOPHISTICATE; UNSOPHISTICATED Un`so*phis"ti*cate, Un`so*phis"ti*ca`ted, a.  Not sophisticated; pure; innocent; genuine.  -- Un`so*phis"ti*ca`ted*ness, n. 

UNSORROWED:  Not sorrowed for; unlamented. Beau. & Fl. 

UNSOUL:  To deprive of soul, spirit, or principle. [R.] Shelton. 

UNSOUND:  Not sound; not whole; not solid; defective; infirm; diseased.  -- Un*sound"ly, adv.  -- Un*sound"ness, n. 

UNSPAR:  To take the spars, stakes, or bars from. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

UNSPEAK:  To retract, as what has been spoken; to recant; to unsay. [R.] Shak. 

UNSPEAKABLE:  Not speakable; incapable of being uttered or adequately described; inexpressible; unutterable; ineffable; as, unspeakable grief or rage.  -- Un*speak"a*bly, adv. Ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. 1 Pet. i. 8. 

UNSPECIALIZED:  Not specialized; specifically (Biol.), not adapted, or set apart, for any particular purpose or function; as, an unspecialized unicellular organism. W. K. Brooks. 

UNSPED:  Not performed; not dispatched. [Obs.] Garth. 

UNSPELL:  To break the power of (a spell); to release (a person) from the influence of a spell; to disenchant. [R.] Such practices as these, . . . The more judicious Israelites unspelled. Dryden. 

UNSPHERE:  To remove, as a planet, from its sphere or orb. Shak. 

UNSPIKE:  To remove a spike from, as from the vent of a cannon. 

UNSPILT:  Not spilt or wasted; not shed. 

UNSPIN:  To untwist, as something spun. 

UNSPIRIT:  To dispirit. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple. 

UNSPIRITALIZE:  To deprive of spiritually. South. 

UNSPLEENED:  Deprived of a spleen. 

UNSPOTTED:  Not spotted; free from spot or stain; especially, free from moral stain; unblemished; immaculate; as, an unspotted reputation.  -- Un*spot"ted*ness, n. 

UNSQUIRE:  To divest of the title or privilege of an esquire. Swift. 

UNSTABLE:  Not stable; not firm, fixed, or constant; subject to change or overthrow.  -- Un*sta"ble*ness, n. Chaucer. Unstable equilibrium. See Stable equilibrium, under Stable. 

UNSTACK:  To remove, or take away, from a stack; to remove, as something constituting a stack. 

UNSTARCH:  To free from starch; to make limp or pliable. 

UNSTATE:  To deprive of state or dignity. [R.] High-battled Cæsar will unstate his happiness. Shak. 

UNSTEEL:  To disarm; to soften. Richardson. 

UNSTEP:  To remove, as a mast, from its step. 

UNSTICK:  To release, as one thing stuck to another. Richardson. 

UNSTILL:  Not still; restless. [R.] 

UNSTING:  To disarm of a sting; to remove the sting of. [R.] "Elegant dissertations on virtue and vice . . . will not unsting calamity." J. M. Mason. 

UNSTITCH:  To open by picking out stitches; to take out, or undo, the stitches of; as, to unstitch a seam. Collier. 

UNSTOCKINGED:  Destitute of stockings. Sir W. Scott.  2. Etym: [1st pref. un- + stocking.]  Deprived of stockings. 

UNSTRAIN:  To relieve from a strain; to relax. B. Jonson. 

UNSTRATIFIED:  Not stratified; -- applied to massive rocks, as granite, porphyry, etc., and also to deposits of loose material, as the glacial till, which occur in masses without layers or strata. 

UNSTRENGTH:  Want of strength; weakness; feebleness. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNSTRIATED:  Nonstriated; unstriped. 

UNSTRING:  Used also figuratively; as, his nerves were unstrung by fear. 

UNSTRIPED:  Without marks or striations; nonstriated; as, unstriped muscle fibers. 

UNSUBSTANTIAL:  Lacking in matter or substance; visionary; chimerical. 

UNSUBSTANTIALIZE:  To make unsubstantial. [R.] 

UNSUBSTANTIATION:  A divesting of substantiality. 

UNSUCCEEDABLE:  Not able or likely to succeed. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

UNSUCCESS:  Want of success; failure; misfortune. Prof. Wilson. 

UNSUCCESSFUL:  Not successful; not producing the desired event; not fortunate; meeting with, or resulting in, failure; unlucky; unhappy.  -- Un`suc*cess"ful*ly, adv.  -- Un`suc*cess"ful*ness, n. 

UNSUFFERABLE:  Insufferable. [Obs.] Hooker.  -- Un*suf"fer*a*bly, adv. [Obs.] 

UNSUFFERING:  Inability or incapability of enduring, or of being endured. [Obs.] Wyclif.  UNSUFFICIENCE; UNSUFFICIENCY Un`suf*fi"cience, Un`suf*fi"cien*cy, n.  Insufficiency. [Obs.] Hooker. 

UNSUFFICIENT:  Insufficient. [Obs.] 

UNSUIT:  Not to suit; to be unfit for. [Obs.] Quarles. 

UNSUPPORTABLE:  Insupportable; unendurable.  -- Un`sup*port"a*ble*ness, n. Bp. Wilkins.  -- Un`sup*port"a*bly, adv. 

UNSURED:  Not made sure. [Obs.] Thy now unsured assurance to the crown. Shak. 

UNSURETY:  Want of surety; uncertainty; insecurity; doubt. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

UNSURMOUNTABLE:  Insurmountable. Locke. 

UNSUSPICION:  The quality or state of being unsuspecting. Dickens. 

UNSWADDLE:  To take a swaddle from; to unswathe. 

UNSWATHE:  To take a swathe from; to relieve from a bandage; to unswaddle. Addison. 

UNSWAYABLE:  Not capable of being swayed. Shak. 

UNSWEAR:  To recant or recall, as an oath; to recall after having sworn; to abjure. J. Fletcher. 

UNSWEAR:  To recall an oath. Spenser. 

UNSWEAT:  To relieve from perspiration; to ease or cool after exercise or toil. [R.] Milton. 

UNSWELL:  To sink from a swollen state; to subside. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNSYMMETRICAL:  Not symmetrical; being without symmetry, as the parts of a flower when similar parts are of different size and shape, or when the parts of successive circles differ in number. See Symmetry.  3. (Chem.)  Being without symmetry of chemical structure or relation; as, an unsymmetrical carbon atom. Unsymmetrical carbon atom (Chem.), one which is united at once to four different atoms or radicals. This condition usually occasions physical isomerism, with the attendant action on polarized light. 

UNSYMMETRICALLY:  Not symmetrically. 

UNSYMPATHY:  Absence or lack of sympathy. 

UNTACK:  To separate, as what is tacked; to disjoin; to release. being untacked from honest cares. Barrow. 

UNTACKLE:  To unbitch; to unharness. [Colloq.] Tusser. 

UNTALKED:  Not talked; not mentioned; -- often with of. Shak. 

UNTANGIBILITY:  Intangibility. 

UNTANGIBLE:  Intangible. [R.] 

UNTANGIBLY:  Intangibly. [R.] 

UNTANGLE:  To loose from tangles or intricacy; to disentangle; to resolve; as, to untangle thread. Untangle but this cruel chain. Prior. 

UNTAPPICE:  to come out of concealment. [Obs.] Massinger. 

UNTASTE:  To deprive of a taste for a thing. [R.] Daniel. 

UNTEAM:  To unyoke a team from. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

UNTEMPER:  To deprive of temper, or of the proper degree of temper; to make soft. 

UNTEMPERATE:  Intemperate. [Obs.] 

UNTEMPERATELY:  Intemperately. [Obs.] 

UNTEMPTER:  One who does not tempt, or is not a tempter. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNTENANT:  To remove a tenant from. [R.] Coleridge. 

UNTENT:  To bring out of a tent. [R.] Shak. 

UNTENTED:  Having no tent or tents, as a soldier or a field. 

UNTENTED:  Not tended; not dressed. See 4th Tent. The untented woundings of a father's curse Pierce every sense about thee! Shak. 

UNTHANK:  No thanks; ill will; misfortune. [Obs.] Unthank come on his head that bound him so. Chaucer. 

UNTHINK:  To recall or take back, as something thought. Shak. 

UNTHINKER:  A person who does not think, or does not think wisely. 

UNTHRIFT:  Unthrifty. [Obs.] 

UNTHRIFTFULLY:  Not thriftily. [Obs.] "Unthriftfully spent." Sir J. Cheke.  UNTHRIFTIHEAD; UNTHRIFTIHOOD Un*thrift"i*head, Un*thrift"i*hood, n.  Untriftiness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UNTHRIFTINESS:  The quality or state or being unthrifty; profuseness; lavishness. Udall. 

UNTHRIFTY:  Not thrifty; profuse. Spenser. 

UNTHRONE:  To remove from, or as from, a throne; to dethrone. Milton. 

UNTIE:  To become untied or loosed. 

UNTIGHTEN:  To make less tight or tense; to loosen. 

UNTIL:  As far as; to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; till. See Till, conj. In open prospect nothing bounds our eye, Until the earth seems joined unto the sky. Dryden. But the rest of the dead lives not again until the thousand years were finished. Rev. xx. 5. 

UNTILE:  To take the tiles from; to uncover by removing the tiles. 

UNTIME:  An unseasonable time. [Obs.] A man shall not eat in untime. Chaucer. 

UNTIMELINESS:  Unseasonableness. 

UNTIMELY:  Not timely; done or happening at an unnatural, unusual, or improper time; unseasonable; premature; inopportune; as, untimely frosts; untimely remarks; an untimely death. 

UNTIMELY:  Out of the natural or usual time; inopportunely; prematurely; unseasonably. "Let them know . . . what's untimely done." Shak. 

UNTIMEOUS:  Untimely. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

UNTIMEOUSLY:  Untimely; unseasonably. [R.] 

UNTITHED:  Not subjected tithes. 

UNTO:  Until; till. [Obs.] "Unto this year be gone." Chaucer. 

UNTOLERABLE:  Intolerable. [Obs.] 

UNTOMB:  To take from the tomb; to exhume; to disinter. Fuller. 

UNTONGUE:  To deprive of a tongue, or of voice. [Obs.] Fuller. 

UNTOOTH:  To take out the teeth of. Cowper. 

UNTOWARD:  Toward. [Obs.] Gower. 

UNTOWARDLY:  Perverse; froward; untoward. "Untowardly tricks and vices." Locke. 

UNTRAMMELED:  Not hampered or impeded; free. [Written also untrammelled.] 

UNTREAD:  To tread back; to retrace. Shak. 

UNTREASURE:  To bring forth or give up, as things previously treasured. "The quaintness with which he untreasured, as by rote, the stores of his memory." J. Mitford. 

UNTREASURED:  Deprived of treasure. [Obs.] Shak.  2. Etym: [Pref. un- not + treasured.]  Not treasured; not kept as treasure. 

UNTREATABLE:  Incapable of being treated; not practicable. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

UNTRENCHED:  Being without trenches; whole; intact. [Obs.] 

UNTRESSED:  Not tied up in tresses; unarranged; -- said of the hair. Chaucer. 

UNTROWABLE:  Incredible. [Obs.] "Untrowable fairness." Wyclif. 

UNTRUE:  Untruly. [Obs. or Poetic] Chaucer. 

UNTRUISM:  Something not true; a false statement. [Recent & R.] A. Trollope. 

UNTRUNKED:  Separated from its trunk or stock. [Obs.] 

UNTRUSS:  To loose from a truss, or as from a truss; to untie or unfasten; to let out; to undress. [R.] Dryden.  UNTRUSS; UNTRUSSER Un*truss", Un*truss"er, n.  One who untrussed persons for the purpose of flogging them; a public whipper. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

UNTRUST:  Distrust. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNTRUTHFUL:  Not truthful; unveracious; contrary to the truth or the fact.  -- Un*truth"ful*ly, adv.  -- Un*truth"ful*ness, n. 

UNTUCK:  To unfold or undo, as a tuck; to release from a tuck or fold. 

UNTUNE:  To make incapable of harmony, or of harmonious action; to put out of tune. Shak. 

UNTURN:  To turn in a reserve way, especially so as to open something; as, to unturn a key. Keats. 

UNTURNED:  Not turned; not revolved or reversed. To leave no stone unturned, to leave nothing untried for accomplishing one's purpose. [He] left unturned no stone To make my guilt appear, and hide his own. Dryden. 

UNTWAIN:  To rend in twain; to tear in two. [Obs.] Skelton. 

UNTWINE:  To untwist; to separate, as that which is twined or twisted; to disentangle; to untie. It requires a long and powerful counter sympathy in a nation to untwine the ties of custom which bind a people to the established and the old. Sir W. Hamilton. 

UNTWINE:  To become untwined. Milton. 

UNTWIRL:  To untwist; to undo. Ash. 

UNTY:  To untie. [Archaic] Young. 

UNUSAGE:  Want or lack of usage. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNUSUAL:  Not usual; uncommon; rare; as, an unusual season; a person of unusual grace or erudition.  -- Un*u"su*al*ly, adv.  -- Un*u"su*al*ness, n. 

UNUSUALITY:  Unusualness. Poe. 

UNUTTERABLE:  Not utterable; incapable of being spoken or voiced; inexpressible; ineffable; unspeakable; as, unutterable anguish. Sighed and looked unutterable things. Thomson. -- Un*ut"ter*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*ut"ter*a*bly, adv. 

UNVAIL:  See Unveil. 

UNVARIABLE:  Invariable. Donne. 

UNVEIL:  To remove a veil from; to divest of a veil; to uncover; to disclose to view; to reveal; as, she unveiled her face. 

UNVEIL:  To remove a veil; to reveal one's self. 

UNVEILER:  One who removes a veil. 

UNVERACITY:  Want of veracity; untruthfulness; as, unveracity of heart. Carlyle. 

UNVESSEL:  To cause to be no longer a vessel; to empty. [Obs.] Ford. 

UNVICAR:  To deprive of the position or office a vicar. [R.] Strype. 

UNVIOLABLE:  Inviolable. 

UNVISARD:  To take the vizard or mask from; to unmask. [Written also unvizard.] [Obs.] Milton. 

UNVISIBLE:  Invisible. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNVISIBLY:  Invisibly. [Obs.] 

UNVITIATED:  Not vitiated; pure. 

UNVOLUNTARY:  Involuntary. [Obs.] Fuller. 

UNVOTE:  To reverse or annul by vote, as a former vote. [R.] Bp, Burnet. 

UNVOWELED:  Having no vowel sounds or signs. [Written also unvowelled.] Skinner. 

UNVULGARIZE:  To divest of vulgarity; to make to be not vulgar. Lamb. 

UNVULNERABLE:  Invulnerable. [Obs.] 

UNWARES:  Unawares; unexpectedly; -- sometimes preceded by at. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

UNWARILY:  In an unwary manner. 

UNWARINESS:  The quality or state of being unwary; carelessness; heedlessness. 

UNWARM:  To lose warmth; to grow cold. [R.] 

UNWARP:  To restore from a warped state; to cause to be linger warped. 

UNWARPED:  Not warped; hence, not biased; impartial. 

UNWARRANTABLE:  Not warrantable; indefensible; not vindicable; not justifiable; illegal; unjust; improper.  -- Un*war"rant*a*ble*ness, n.  -- Un*war"rant*a*bly, adv. 

UNWARRANTED:  Not warranted; being without warrant, authority, or guaranty; unwarrantable. 

UNWASHED:  Not washed or cleansed; filthy; unclean. 

UNWASHEN:  Not washed. [Archaic] "To eat with unwashen hands." Matt. xv. 20. 

UNWEARIED:  Not wearied; not fatigued or tired; hence, persistent; not tiring or wearying; indefatigable.  -- Un*wea"ried*ly, adv.  -- Un*wea"ried*ness, n. 

UNWEARY:  To cause to cease being weary; to refresh. [Obs.] Dryden. 

UNWEAVE:  To unfold; to undo; to ravel, as what has been woven. 

UNWEDGEABLE:  Not to be split with wedges. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNWEETING:  Unwitting. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.  -- Un*weet"ing*ly, adv. [Obs.] Milton. 

UNWEIGHED:  Not weighed; not pondered or considered; as, an unweighed statement. 

UNWEIGHING:  Not weighing or pondering; inconsiderate. Shak.  UNWELD; UNWELDY Un*weld", Un*weld"y, a.  Unwieldy; unmanageable; clumsy. [Obs.] Our old limbs move [may] well be unweld. Chaucer. 

UNWELL:  Specifically, ill from menstruation; affected with, or having, catamenial; menstruant.  Note: This word was formerly regarded as an Americanism, but is now in common use among all who speak the English language. 

UNWELLNESS:  , n. Quality or state of being unwell. 

UNWEMMED:  Not blemished; undefiled; pure. [Obs.] Wyclif. With body clean and with unwemmed thought. Chaucer. 

UNWHOLE:  Not whole; unsound. [Obs.] 

UNWIELDY:  Not easily wielded or carried; unmanageable; bulky; ponderous. "A fat, unwieldy body of fifty-eight years old." Clarendon.  -- Un*wield"i*ly, adv.  -- Un*wield"i*ness, n. 

UNWILD:  To tame; to subdue. [Obs. & R.] Sylvester. 

UNWILL:  To annul or reverse by an act of the will. Longfellow. 

UNWILLED:  Deprived of the faculty of will or volition. Mrs. Browning. 

UNWILLING:  Not willing; loath; disinclined; reluctant; as, an unwilling servant. And drop at last, but in unwilling ears, This saving counsel, "Keep your piece nine years." Pope. -- Un*will"ing*ly, adv.  -- Un*will"ing*ness, n. 

UNWIND:  To be or become unwound; to be capable of being unwound or untwisted. 

UNWISDOM:  Want of wisdom; unwise conduct or action; folly; simplicity; ignorance. Sumptuary laws are among the exploded fallacies which we have outgrown, and we smile at the unwisdom which could except to regulate private habits and manners by statute. J. A. Froude. 

UNWISE:  Not wise; defective in wisdom; injudicious; indiscreet; foolish; as, an unwise man; unwise kings; unwise measures. 

UNWISELY:  In an unwise manner; foolishly. 

UNWISH:  To wish not to be; to destroy by wishing. [Obs.] Now thou hast unwished five thousand men. Shak. 

UNWIT:  To deprive of wit. [Obs.] Shak. 

UNWIT:  Want of wit or understanding; ignorance. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNWITCH:  To free from a witch or witches; to fee from witchcraft. [R.] B. Jonson. 

UNWITTING:  Not knowing; unconscious; ignorant.  -- Un*wit"ting*ly, adv. 

UNWOMAN:  To deprive of the qualities of a woman; to unsex. [R.] R. Browning. 

UNWONDER:  To divest of the quality of wonder or mystery; to interpret; to explain. [R.] Fuller. 

UNWONT:  Unwonted; unused; unaccustomed. [Archaic] Sir W. Scott. 

UNWORK:  To undo or destroy, as work previously done. 

UNWORLDLY:  Not worldly; spiritual; holy. Hawthorne.  -- Un*world"li*ness, n. 

UNWORMED:  Not wormed; not having had the worm, or lytta, under the tongue cut out; -- said of a dog. 

UNWORSHIP:  To deprive of worship or due honor; to dishonor. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

UNWORSHIP:  Lack of worship or respect; dishonor. [Obs.] Gower. 

UNWORTH:  Unworthy. [Obs.] Milton. 

UNWORTH:  Unworthiness. [R.] Carlyle. 

UNWORTHY:  Not worthy; wanting merit, value, or fitness; undeserving; worthless; unbecoming; -- often with of.  -- Un*wor"thi*ly, adv.  -- Un*wor"thi*ness, n. 

UNWRAP:  To open or undo, as what is wrapped or folded. Chaucer. 

UNWRAY:  See Unwrie. [Obs.] 

UNWREATHE:  To untwist, uncoil, or untwine, as anything wreathed. 

UNWRIE:  To uncover. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UNWRINKLE:  To reduce from a wrinkled state; to smooth. 

UNWRITE:  To cancel, as what is written; to erase. Milton. 

UNWROKEN:  Not revenged; unavenged. [Obs.] Surrey. 

UNYOLDEN:  Not yielded. [Obs.] "[By] force . . . is he taken unyolden." Sir T. Browne. 

UNZONED:  Not zoned; not bound with a girdle; as, an unzoned bosom. Prior. 

UP:  The state of being up or above; a state of elevation, prosperity, or the like; -- rarely occurring except in the phrase ups and downs. [Colloq.] Ups and downs, alternate states of elevation and depression, or of prosperity and the contrary. [Colloq.] They had their ups and downs of fortune. Thackeray. 

UP:  Inclining up; tending or going up; upward; as, an up look; an up grade; the up train. 

UPAS:  A tree (Antiaris toxicaria) of the Breadfruit family, common in the forests of Java and the neighboring islands. Its secretions are poisonous, and it has been fabulously reported that the atmosphere about it is deleterious. Called also bohun upas.  2. A virulent poison used in Java and the adjacent islands for poisoning arrows. One kind, upas antiar, is, derived from upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria). Upas tieute is prepared from a climbing plant (Strychnos Tieute). 

UPBEAR:  To bear up; to raise aloft; to support in an elevated situation; to sustain. Spenser. One short sigh of breath, upbore Even to the seat of God. Milton. A monstrous wave upbore The chief, and dashed him on the craggy shore. Pope. 

UPBIND:  To bind up. [R.] Collins. 

UPBLOW:  To inflate. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UPBLOW:  To blow up; as, the wind upblows from the sea. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UPBRAID:  To utter upbraidings. Pope. 

UPBRAID:  The act of reproaching; contumely. [Obs.] " Foul upbraid." Spenser. 

UPBREAK:  To break upwards; to force away or passage to the surface. 

UPBREAK:  A breaking upward or bursting forth; an upburst. Mrs. Browning. 

UPBREATHE:  To breathe up or out; to exhale. [Obs.] Marston. 

UPBREED:  To rear, or bring up; to nurse. "Upbred in a foreign country." Holinshed. 

UPBROUGHT:  Brought up; educated. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UPBUOYANCE:  The act of buoying up; uplifting. [R.] Coleridge. 

UPBURST:  The act of bursting upwards; a breaking through to the surface; an upbreak or uprush; as, an upburst of molten matter. 

UPCAST:  Cast up; thrown upward; as, with upcast eyes. Addison. 

UPCAST:  A cast; a throw. Shak.  2. (Mining.)  The ventilating shaft of a mine out of which the air passes after having circulated through the mine; -- distinguished from the downcast. Called also upcast pit, and upcast shaft.  3. An upset, as from a carriage. [Scot.]  4. A taunt; a reproach. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

UPCAUGHT:  Seized or caught up. " She bears upcaught a mariner away." Cowper. 

UPCHEER:  To cheer up. Spenser. 

UPCLIMB:  To climb up; to ascend. Upclomb the shadowy pine above the woven copse. Tennyson. 

UPCOIL:  To coil up; to make into a coil, or to be made into a coil. 

UPCOUNTRY:  In an upcountry direction; as, to live upcountry. [Colloq.] 

UPCOUNTRY:  Living or situated remote from the seacoast; as, an upcountry residence. [Colloq.] -- n.  The interior of the country. [Colloq.] 

UPCURL:  To curl up. [R.] Tennyson. 

UPDIVE:  To spring upward; to rise. [R.] Davies (Microcosmos). 

UPDRAW:  To draw up. [R.] Milton. 

UPEND:  To end up; to set on end, as a cask. 

UPEYGAN:  The borele. 

UPFILL:  To fill up. [Obs.] 

UPFLOW:  To flow or stream up. Southey. 

UPFLUNG:  Flung or thrown up. 

UPGATHER:  To gather up; to contract; to draw together. [Obs.] Himself he close upgathered more and more. Spenser. 

UPGAZE:  To gaze upward. Byron. 

UPGIVE:  To give up or out. [Obs.] 

UPGROW:  To grow up. [R.] Milton. 

UPGROWTH:  The process or result of growing up; progress; development. The new and mighty upgrowth of poetry in Italy. J. R. Green. 

UPGUSH:  A gushing upward. Hawthorne. 

UPGUSH:  To gush upward. 

UPHAF:  imp. of Upheave. Chaucer. 

UPHAND:  Lifted by the hand, or by both hands; as, the uphand sledge. [R.] Moxon. 

UPHANG:  To hang up. Spenser. 

UPHASP:  To hasp or faster up; to close; as, sleep uphasps the eyes. [R.] Stanyhurst. 

UPHEAPED:  Piled up; accumulated. God, which shall repay all with upheaped measure. Udall. 

UPHEAVAL:  The act of upheaving, or the state of being upheaved; esp., an elevation of a portion of the earth's crust. Lubbock. 

UPHEAVE:  To heave or lift up from beneath; to raise. Milton. 

UPHELD:  imp. & p. p. of Uphold. 

UPHER:  A fir pole of from four to seven inches diameter, and twenty to forty feet long, sometimes roughly hewn, used for scaffoldings, and sometimes for slight and common roofs, for which use it is split. [Spelt also ufer.] [Eng.] Gwilt. 

UPHILL:  Upwards on, or as on, a hillside; as, to walk uphill. 

UPHILT:  To thrust in up to the hilt; as, to uphilt one's sword into an enemy. [R.] Stanyhurst. 

UPHOARD:  To hoard up. [Obs.] Shak. 

UPHOLSTER:  To furnish (rooms, carriages, bedsteads, chairs, etc.) with hangings, coverings, cushions, etc.; to adorn with furnishings in cloth, velvet, silk, etc.; as, to upholster a couch; to upholster a room with curtains. 

UPHOLSTERER:  One who provides hangings, coverings, cushions, curtains, and the like; one who upholsters. Upholsterer bee. (Zoöl.) See Poppy bee, under Poppy. 

UPHOLSTERY:  The articles or goods supplied by upholsterers; the business or work of an upholsterer. 

UPHROE:  Same as Euphroe. 

UPKEEP:  The act of keeping up, or maintaining; maintenance. "Horse artillery . . . expensive in the upkeep."  Scribner's Mag.  Small outlays for repairs or upkeep of buildings. A. R. Colquhoun. 

UPLANDER:  The upland sandpiper. [Local, U. S.] 

UPLANDISH:  Of or pertaining to uplands; dwelling on high lands. [Obs.] Chapman.  2. Rude; rustic; unpolished; uncivilized. [Obs.] His presence made the rudest peasant melt, That in the wild, uplandish country dwelt. Marlowe. 

UPLAY:  To hoard. [Obs.] Donne. 

UPLEAD:  To lead upward. [Obs.] 

UPLEAN:  To lean or incline upon anything. [Obs.] Spenser. 

UPLIFT:  To lift or raise aloft; to raise; to elevate; as, to uplift the arm; to uplift a rock. Cowper. Satan, talking to his nearest mate, With head uplift above the wave, and eyes That sparkling blazed. Milton. 

UPLIFT:  A raising or upheaval of strata so as to disturb their regularity and uniformity, and to occasion folds, dislocations, and the like.  UP-LINE Up"-line`, n. (Railroad)  A line or track leading from the provinces toward the metropolis or a principal terminus; the track upon which up-trains run. See Up-train. [Eng.] 

UPLOCK:  To lock up. [Obs.] Shak. 

UPLOOK:  To look or gaze up. [Obs.] 

UPMOST:  Highest; topmost; uppermost. Spenser. Dryden. 

UPOKORORO:  An edible fresh-water New Zealand fish (Prototroctes oxyrhynchus) of the family Haplochitonidæ. In general appearance and habits, it resembles the northern lake whitefishes and trout. Called also grayling. 

UPON:  On; -- used in all the senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable. "Upon an hill of flowers." Chaucer. Our host upon his stirrups stood anon. Chaucer. Thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar. Ex. xxix. 21. The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. Judg. xvi. 9. As I did stand my watch upon the hill. Shak. He made a great difference between people that did rebel upon wantonness, and them that did rebel upon want. Bacon. This advantage we lost upon the invention of firearms. Addison. Upon the whole, it will be necessary to avoid that perpetual repetition of the same epithets which we find in Homer. Pope. He had abandoned the frontiers, retiring upon Glasgow. Sir. W. Scott. Philip swore upon the Evangelists to abstain from aggression in my absence. Landor.  Note: Upon conveys a more distinct notion that on carries with it of something that literally or metaphorically bears or supports. It is less employed than it used to be, on having for the most part taken its place. Some expressions formed with it belong only to old style; as, upon pity they were taken away; that is, in consequence of pity: upon the rate of thirty thousand; that is, amounting to the rate: to die upon the hand; that is, by means of the hand: he had a garment upon; that is, upon himself: the time is coming fast upon; that is, upon the present time. By the omission of its object, upon acquires an adverbial sense, as in the last two examples. To assure upon (Law), to promise; to undertake.  -- To come upon. See under Come.  -- To take upon, to assume.  UP-OVER Up"-o`ver, a. (Mining & Civil Eng.)  Designating a method of shaft excavation by drifting to a point below, and then raising instead of sinking. 

UPPENT:  A Pent up; confined. [Obs.] 

UPPER:  Being further up, literally or figuratively; higher in place, position, rank, dignity, or the like; superior; as, the upper lip; the upper side of a thing; the upper house of a legislature. The upper hand, the superiority; the advantage. See To have the upper hand, under Hand. Jowett (Thucyd.).  -- Upper Bench (Eng. Hist.), the name of the highest court of common law (formerly King's Bench) during the Commonwealth.  -- Upper case, the top one of a pair of compositor's cases. See the Note under 1st Case, n., 3.  -- Upper covert (Zoöl.), one of the coverts situated above the bases of the tail quills.  -- Upper deck (Naut.), the topmost deck of any vessel; the spar deck.  -- Upper leather, the leather for the vamps and quarters of shoes.  -- Upper strake (Naut.), the strake next to the deck, usually of hard wood, and heavier than the other strakes.  -- Upper ten thousand, or (abbreviated) Upper ten, the ten thousand, more or less, who are highest in position or wealth; the upper class; the aristocracy. [Colloq.] -- Upper topsail (Naut.), the upper half of a double topsail.  -- Upper works (Naut.), all those parts of the hull of a vessel that are properly above water.  -- Upper world. (a) The atmosphere. (b) Heaven. (c) This world; the earth; -- in distinction from the underworld. 

UPPER:  The upper leather for a shoe; a vamp. 

UPPERMOST:  Highest in place, position, rank, power, or the like; upmost; supreme. Whatever faction happens to be uppermost. Swift. 

UPPERTENDOM:  The highest class in society; the upper ten. See Upper ten, under Upper. [Colloq.] 

UPPILE:  To pile, or heap, up. Southey. 

UPPISH:  Proud; arrogant; assuming; putting on airs of superiority. [Colloq.] T. Brown.  -- Up"pish*ly, adv. [Colloq.] -- Up"pish*ness, n. [Colloq.] 

UPPLIGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Uppluck. 

UPPLUCK:  To pull or pluck up. [Obs.] 

UPPRICKED:  Upraised; erect; -- said of the ears of an animal. Mason. 

UPPROP:  To prop up. Donne. 

UPRAISE:  To raise; to lift up. 

UPREAR:  To raise; to erect. Byron. 

UPRIDGED:  Raised up in a ridge or ridges; as, a billow upridged. Cowper. 

UPRIGHT:  Something standing upright, as a piece of timber in a building. See Illust. of Frame. 

UPRIGHTEOUSLY:  In an upright or just manner. [Obs.] Shak. 

UPRIGHTLY:  In an upright manner. 

UPRIGHTNESS:  the quality or state of being upright. 

UPRISE:  The act of rising; appearance above the horizon; rising. [R.] Did ever raven sing so like a lark, That gives sweet tidings of the sun's uprise Shak. 

UPRIST:  Uprising. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

UPRIST:  imp. of Uprise. Uprose. Chaucer. Nor dim nor red, like God's own head The glorious sun uprist. Coleridge. 

UPROAR:  Great tumult; violent disturbance and noise; noisy confusion; bustle and clamor. But the Jews which believed not, . . . set all the city on an uproar. Acts xvii. 5. 

UPROAR:  To throw into uproar or confusion. [Obs.] "Uproar the universal peace." Shak. 

UPROAR:  To make an uproar. [R.] Carlyle. 

UPROARIOUS:  Making, or accompanied by, uproar, or noise and tumult; as, uproarious merriment.  -- Up*roar"i*ous*ly, adv.  -- Up*roar"i*ous*ness, n. 

UPROLL:  To roll up. Milton. 

UPROOT:  To root up; to tear up by the roots, or as if by the roots; to remove utterly; to eradicate; to extirpate. Trees uprooted left their place. Dryden. At his command the uprooted hills retired. Milton. 

UPROUSE:  To rouse up; to rouse from sleep; to awake; to arouse. Shak. 

UPRUN:  To run up; to ascend. The young sun That in the Ram is four degrees uprun. Chaucer. [A son] of matchless might, who, like a thriving plant, Upran to manhood. Cowper. 

UPRUSH:  To rush upward. Southey. 

UPRUSH:  Act of rushing upward; an upbreak or upburst; as, an uprush of lava. R. A. Proctor. 

UPSAROKAS:  See Crows. 

UPSEEK:  To seek or strain upward. "Upseeking eyes suffused with . . . tears." Southey. 

UPSEND:  To send, cast, or throw up. As when some island situate afar . . . Upsends a smoke to heaven. Cowper. 

UPSET:  To become upset. 

UPSET:  Set up; fixed; determined; -- used chiefly or only in the phrase upset price; that is, the price fixed upon as the minimum for property offered in a public sale, or, in an auction, the price at which property is set up or started by the auctioneer, and the lowest price at which it will be sold. After a solemn pause, Mr. Glossin offered the upset price for the lands and barony of Ellangowan. Sir W. Scott. 

UPSET:  The act of upsetting, or the state of being upset; an overturn; as, the wagon had an upset. 

UPSETTING:  Conceited; assuming; as, an upsetting fellow. [Scot.] Jamieson.  UPSETTING THERMOMETER Up*set"ting ther*mom"e*ter.  A thermometer by merely inverting which the temperature may be registered. The column of mercury is broken and, as it remains until the instrument is reset, the reading may be made at leisure. 

UPSHOOT:  To shoot upward. "Trees upshooting high." Spenser. 

UPSHOT:  Final issue; conclusion; the sum and substance; the end; the result; the consummation. I can not pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot. Shak. We account it frailty that threescore years and ten make the upshot of man's pleasurable existence. De Quincey. 

UPSIDE:  The upper side; the part that is uppermost. To be upsides with, to be even with. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott. T. Hughes.  -- Upside down. Etym: [Perhaps a corruption of OE. up so down, literally, up as down.] With the upper part undermost; hence, in confusion; in complete disorder; topsy-turvy. Shak. These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also. Acts xvii. 6. 

UPSIDOWN:  See Upsodown. [Obs. or Colloq.] Spenser. 

UPSILON:  The 20th letter (U, u) of the Greek alphabet, a vowel having originally the sound of oo as in room, becoming before the 4th century b. c. that French u or Ger. ü. Its equivalent in English is u or y. 

UPSITTING:  A sitting up of a woman after her confinement, to receive and entertain her friends. [Obs.] To invite your lady's upsitting. Beau. & Fl. 

UPSKIP:  An upstart. [Obs.] Latimer. 

UPSNATCH:  To snatch up. [R.] 

UPSOAR:  To soar or mount up. Pope. 

UPSODOWN:  Upside down. [Obs. or Colloq.] Wyclif. In man's sin is every manner order or ordinance turned upsodown. Chaucer. 

UPSPEAR:  To grow or shoot up like a spear; as, upspearing grass. [R.] Cowper. 

UPSPRING:  To spring up. Tennyson. 

UPSPURNER:  A spurner or contemner; a despiser; a scoffer. [Obs.] Joye. 

UPSTAIRS:  Up the stairs; in or toward an upper story. 

UPSTAIRS:  Being above stairs; as, an upstairs room. 

UPSTAND:  To stand up; to be erected; to rise. Spenser. Milton. At once upstood the monarch, and upstood The wise Ulysses. Cowper. 

UPSTARE:  To stare or stand upward; hence, to be uplifted or conspicuous. "Rearing fiercely their upstaring crests." Spenser. 

UPSTART:  To start or spring up suddenly. Spenser. Tennyson. 

UPSTART:  The meadow saffron. Dr. Prior. 

UPSTART:  Suddenly raised to prominence or consequence. "A race of upstart creatures." Milton. 

UPSTAY:  To sustain; to support. [Obs.] "His massy spear upstayed." Milton. 

UPSTERTE:  imp. & p. p. of Upstart. 

UPSTIR:  Insurrection; commotion; disturbance. [Obs.] Sir J. Cheke. 

UPSTREAM:  Toward the higher part of a stream; against the current. 

UPSTREET:  Toward the higher part of a street; as, to walk upstreet. G. W. Gable. 

UPSTROKE:  An upward stroke, especially the stroke, or line, made by a writing instrument when moving upward, or from the body of the writer, or a line corresponding to the part of a letter thus made. Some upstroke of an Alpha and Omega. Mrs. Browning. 

UPSUN:  The time during which the sun is up, or above the horizon; the time between sunrise and sunset. 

UPSWARM:  To rise, or cause to rise, in a swarm or swarms. [R.] Shak. Cowper. 

UPSWAY:  To sway or swing aloft; as, to upsway a club. [R.] Sir W. Scott. 

UPSWELL:  To swell or rise up. 

UPSYTURVY:  Upside down; topsy-turvy. [Obs.] Robert Greene.  UPTAILS ALL Up"tails` all".  1. An old game at cards. [Obs.]  2. Revelers; roysterers. [Obs.] Decker.  3. Revelry; confusion; frolic. [Obs.] Herrick. 

UPTAKE:  To take into the hand; to take up; to help. [Obs.] Wyclif. Spenser. 

UPTEAR:  To tear up. Milton. 

UPTHROW:  To throw up. Drayton. 

UPTHROW:  See Throw, n., 9. 

UPTHUNDER:  To send up a noise like thunder. [R.] Coleridge. 

UPTIE:  To tie up. Spenser. 

UPTILL:  To; against. [Obs. & R.] She, poor bird, as all forlorn, Leaned her breast uptill a thorn. Shak.  UP-TO-DATE Up`-to-date", a.  Extending to the present time; having style, manners, knowledge, or other qualities that are abreast of the times. "A general up-to-date style of presentment."  Nature.  I must prefer to translate the poet in a manner more congenial if less up-to-date. Andrew Lang. 

UPTOWN:  To or in the upper part of a town; as, to go uptown. [Colloq. U. S.] 

UPTOWN:  Situated in, or belonging to, the upper part of a town or city; as, a uptown street, shop, etc.; uptown society. [Colloq. U. S.] 

UPTRACE:  To trace up or out. 

UPTRAIN:  To train up; to educate. [Obs.] "Daughters which were well uptrained." Spenser.  UP-TRAIN Up"-train`.  1. A train going in the direction of the metropolis or the main terminus. [Eng.]  2. A train going in the direction conventionally called up. [U.S.] 

UPTURN:  To turn up; to direct upward; to throw up; as, to upturn the ground in plowing. "A sea of upturned faces." D. Webster. So scented the grim feature, and upturned His nostril wide into the murky air. Milton. 

UPUPA:  A genus of birds which includes the common hoopoe. 

UPWAFT:  To waft upward. Cowper.  UPWARD; UPWARDS Up"ward, Up"wards, adv. Etym: [AS. upweardes. See Up-, and -wards.]  1. In a direction from lower to higher; toward a higher place; in a course toward the source or origin; -- opposed to downward; as, to tend or roll upward. I. Watts. Looking inward, we are stricken dumb; looking upward, we speak and prevail. Hooker.  2. In the upper parts; above. Dagon his name, sea monster, upward man, And down ward fish. Milton.  3. Yet more; indefinitely more; above; over. From twenty years old and upward. Num. i. 3. Upward of, or Upwards of, more than; above. I have been your wife in this obedience Upward of twenty years. Shak. 

UPWARD:  Directed toward a higher place; as, with upward eye; with upward course. 

UPWARD:  The upper part; the top. [Obs.] From the extremest upward of thy head. Shak. 

UPWHIRL:  To rise upward in a whirl; to raise upward with a whirling motion. 

UPWIND:  To wind up. Spenser.  UP-WIND Up"-wind`, adv.  Against the wind. 

UPWREATH:  To rise with a curling motion; to curl upward, as smoke. Longfellow. 

UPYAT:  imp. of Upgive. Chaucer.  UR; URE Ur, Ure, n. (Zoöl.)  The urus. 

URACHUS:  A cord or band of fibrous tissue extending from the bladder to the umbilicus. 

URAEMIA:  Accumulation in the blood of the principles of the urine, producing dangerous disease. 

URAEMIC:  Of or pertaining to uræmia; as, uræmic convulsions. 

URAEUM:  The posterior half of an animal. 

URAEUS:  A serpent, or serpent's head and neck, represented on the front of the headdresses of divinities and sovereigns as an emblem of supreme power. 

URAL:  Pertaining to, or designating, the Urals, a mountain range between Europe and Asia.  URAL-ALTAIC U"ral-Al*ta"ic, a.  Of or pertaining to the Urals and the Altai; as the Ural- Altaic, or Turanian, languages. 

URALI:  See Curare.  URALIAN; URALIC U*ra"li*an, U*ral"ic, a.  Of or relating to the Ural Mountains. 

URALITE:  Amphibole resulting from the alternation of pyroxene by paramorphism. It is not uncommon in massive eruptive rocks. 

URALITIZATION:  The change of pyroxene to amphibole by paramorphism. 

URAMIL:  Murexan. 

URANATE:  A salt of uranic acid. 

URANIA:  One of the nine Muses, daughter of Zeus by Mnemosyne, and patron of astronomy.  2. (Zoöl.)  A genus of large, brilliantly colored moths native of the West Indies and South America. Their bright colored and tailed hind wings and their diurnal flight cause them to closely resemble butterflies. 

URANIAN:  Of or pertaining to the planet Uranus; as, the Uranian year. 

URANIC:  Pertaining to, resembling, or containing uranium; specifically, designating those compounds in which uranium has a valence relatively higher than in uranous compounds. 

URANIN:  An alkaline salt of fluorescein, obtained as a brownish red substance, which is used as a dye; -- so called from the peculiar yellowish green fluorescence (resembling that of uranium glass) of its solutions. See Fluorescein. 

URANINITE:  A mineral consisting chiefly of uranium oxide with some lead, thorium, etc., occurring in black octahedrons, also in masses with a pitchlike luster; pitchblende. 

URANISCOPLASTY:  The process of forming an artificial palate.  URANISCORAPHY; URANISCORRHAPHY U`ra*nis*cor"a*phy, U`ra*nis*cor"rha*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)  Suture of the palate. See Staphyloraphy. 

URANITE:  A general term for the uranium phosphates, autunite, or lime uranite, and torbernite, or copper uranite. 

URANITIC:  Of or pertaining to uranium; containing uranium. 

URANIUM:  An element of the chromium group, found in certain rare minerals, as pitchblende, uranite, etc., and reduced as a heavy, hard, nickel-white metal which is quite permanent. Its yellow oxide is used to impart to glass a delicate greenish-yellow tint which is accompanied by a strong fluorescence, and its black oxide is used as a pigment in porcelain painting. Symbol U. Atomic weight 239.  Note: Uranium was discovered in the state of an oxide by Klaproth in 1789, and so named in honor of Herschel's discovery of the planet Uranus in 1781.  URAN-OCHER; URAN-OCHRE U"ran-o`cher, U"ran-o`chre, n. Etym: [Cf. F. uranochre.] (Min.) (a) A yellow, earthy incrustation, consisting essentially of the oxide of uranium, but more or less impure.  URANOGRAPHIC; URANOGRAPHICAL U`ra*no*graph"ic, U`ra*no*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to uranography; as, an uranographic treatise. 

URANOGRAPHIST:  One practiced in uranography. 

URANOGRAPHY:  A description or plan of the heavens and the heavenly bodies; the construction of celestial maps, globes, etc.; uranology. 

URANOLITE:  A meteorite or aërolite. [Obs.] Hutton. 

URANOLOGY:  A discourse or treatise on the heavens and the heavenly bodies; the study of the heavens; uranography. 

URANOMETRIA:  A uranometry. 

URANOMETRY:  A chart or catalogue of fixed stars, especially of stars visible to the naked eye. 

URANOPLASTY:  The plastic operation for closing a fissure in the hard palate. 

URANOSCOPY:  Observation of the heavens or heavenly bodies.  URANOSO- U`ra*no"so- (, a. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) from uranium; -- used in naming certain complex compounds; as in uranoso-uranic oxide, uranoso-uranic sulphate. 

URANOUS:  Pertaining to, or containing, uranium; designating those compounds in which uranium has a lower valence as contrasted with the uranic compounds. 

URANUS:  The son or husband of Gaia (Earth), and father of Chronos (Time) and the Titans.  2. (Astron.)  One of the primary planets. It is about 1,800,000,000 miles from the sun, about 36,000 miles in diameter, and its period of revolution round the sun is nearly 84 of our years.  Note: This planet has also been called Herschel, from Sir William Herschel, who discovered it in 1781, and who named it Georgium Sidus, in honor of George III., then King of England.  URAN-UTAN U*ran"-u*tan`, (Zoöl.)  The orang-utang 

URANYL:  The radical UO2, conveniently regarded as a residue of many uranium compounds. 

URAO:  See Trona.  URARE; URARI U*ra"re, U*ra"ri, n.  See Curare. 

URATE:  A salt of uric acid; as, sodium urate; ammonium urate. 

URATIC:  Of or containing urates; as, uratic calculi. 

URBANE:  Courteous in manners; polite; refined; elegant. 

URBANISTE:  A large and delicious pear or Flemish origin. 

URBANIZE:  To render urban, or urbane; to refine; to polish. Howell. 

URBICOLAE:  An extensive family of butterflies, including those known as skippers (Hesperiadæ). 

URBICOLOUS:  Of or pertaining to a city; urban. [R.] 

URCEOLAR:  Urceolate.  URCEOLATE; URCELATE Ur"ce*o*late, Ur"ce*late, a. Etym: [L. urceolus, dim. of urceus a pitcher or waterpot.] (Nat. Hist.)  Shaped like a pitcher or urn; swelling below, and contrasted at the orifice, as a calyx or corolla. 

URCEOLE:  A vessel for water for washing the hands; also, one to hold wine or water. 

URCEOLUS:  Any urn-shaped organ of a plant. 

URCHIN:  A hedgehog.  2. (Zoöl.)  A sea urchin. See Sea urchin.  3. A mischievous elf supposed sometimes to take the form a hedgehog. "We 'll dress [them] like urchins, ouphes, and fairies." Shak.  4. A pert or roguish child; -- now commonly used only of a boy. And the urchins that stand with their thievish eyes Forever on watch ran off each with a prize. W. Howitt. You did indeed dissemble, you urchin you; but where's the girl that won't dissemble for an husband Goldsmith.  5. One of a pair in a series of small card cylinders, arranged around a carding drum; -- so called from its fancied resemblance to the hedgehog. Knight. Urchin fish (Zoöl.), a diodon. 

URCHIN:  Rough; pricking; piercing. [R.] "Helping all urchin blasts." Milton. 

URCHON:  The urchin, or hedgehog. 

URDU:  The language more generally called Hindoostanee. 

URE:  Use; practice; exercise. [Obs.] Fuller. Let us be sure of this, to put the best in ure That lies in us. Chapman. 

URE:  To use; to exercise; to inure; to accustom by practice. [Obs.] The French soldiers . . . from their youth have been practiced and ured in feats of arms. Sir T. More. 

UREA:  A very soluble crystalline body which is the chief constituent of the urine in mammals and some other animals. It is also present in small quantity in blood, serous fluids, lymph, the liver, etc.  Note: It is the main product of the regressive metamorphosis (katabolism) of proteid matter in the body, and is excreted daily to the amount of about 500 grains by a man of average weight. Chemically it is carbamide, CO(NH2)2, and when heated with strong acids or alkalies is decomposed into carbonic acid and ammonia. It unites with acids to form salts, as nitrate of urea, and it can be made synthetically from ammonium cyanate, with which it is isomeric. Urea ferment, a soluble ferment formed by certain bacteria, which, however, yield the ferment from the body of their cells only after they have been killed by alcohol. It causes urea to take up water and decompose into carbonic acid and ammonia. Many different bacteria possess this property, especially Bacterium ureæ and Micrococcus ureæ, which are found abundantly in urines undergoing alkaline fermentation. 

UREAL:  Of or pertaining to urea; containing, or consisting of, urea; as, ureal deposits. 

UREAMETER:  An apparatus for the determination of the amount of urea in urine, in which the nitrogen evolved by the action of certain reagents, on a given volume of urine, is collected and measured, and the urea calculated accordingly. 

URECHITIN:  A glucoside extracted from the leaves of a certain plant (Urechitis suberecta) as a bitter white crystalline substance. 

URECHITOXIN:  A poisonous glucoside found accompanying urechitin, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance. 

UREDO:  One of the stages in the life history of certain rusts (Uredinales), regarded at one time as a distinct genus. It is a summer stage preceding the teleutospore, or winter stage. See Uredinales, in the Supplement.  2. (Med.)  Nettle rash. See Urticaria. 

UREDOSPORE:  The thin-walled summer spore which is produced during the so- called Uredo stage of certain rusts. See (in the Supplement) Uredinales, Heteroecious, etc. 

UREIDE:  Any one of the many complex derivatives of urea; thus, hydantoin, and, in an extended dense, guanidine, caffeine, et., are ureides. [Written also ureid.]  -URET -u*ret.  A suffix with the same meaning as -ide. See -ide. [Obs.] 

URETER:  The duct which conveys the urine from the kidney to the bladder or cloaca. There are two ureters, one for each kidney. 

URETERITIS:  Inflammation of the ureter. Dunglison. 

URETHANE:  A white crystalline substance, NH2.CO.OC2H5, produced by the action of ammonia on ethyl carbonate. It is used somewhat in medicine as a hypnotic. By extension, any one of the series of related substances of which urethane proper is the type. 

URETHRA:  The canal by which the urine is conducted from the bladder and discharged. 

URETHRAL:  Of or pertaining to the urethra. Urethral fever (Med.), fever occurring as a consequence of operations upon the urethra. 

URETHRITIS:  Inflammation of the urethra. 

URETHROPLASTY:  An operation for the repair of an injury or a defect in the walls of the urethra.  -- U*re`thro*plas"tic, a. 

URETHROSCOPE:  An instrument for viewing the interior of the urethra. 

URETHROSCOPY:  Examination of the urethra by means of the urethroscope. 

URETHROTOME:  An instrument for cutting a urethral stricture. 

URETHROTOMY:  An incision of the urethra, esp. incision for relief of urethral stricture. 

URETIC:  Of or pertaining to the urine; diuretic; urinary; as, uretic medicine. 

URGENCE:  Urgency. [Obs.] 

URGENCY:  The quality or condition of being urgent; insistence; pressure; as, the urgency of a demand or an occasion. 

URGENT:  Urging; pressing; besetting; plying, with importunity; calling for immediate attention; instantly important. "The urgent hour." Shak. Some urgent cause to ordain the contrary. Hooker. The Egyptians were urgent upon the people that they might send them out of the land in haste. Ex. xii. 33. 

URGENTLY:  In an urgent manner. 

URGER:  One who urges. Beau. & Fl. 

URIC:  Of or pertaining to urine; obtained from urine; as, uric acid. Uric acid, a crystalline body, present in small quantity in the urine of man and most mammals. Combined in the form of urate of ammonia, it is the chief constituent of the urine of birds and reptiles, forming the white part. Traces of it are also found in the various organs of the body. It is likewise a common constituent, either as the free acid or as a urate, of urinary or renal calculi and of the so-called gouty concretions. From acid urines, uric acid is frequently deposited, on standing in a cool place, in the form of a reddish yellow sediment, nearly always crystalline. Chemically, it is composed of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, C5H4N4O3, and by decomposition yields urea, among other products. It can be made synthetically by heating together urea and glycocoll. It was formerly called also lithic acid, in allusion to its occurrence in stone, or calculus. 

URIM:  A part or decoration of the breastplate of the high priest among the ancient Jews, by which Jehovah revealed his will on certain occasions. Its nature has been the subject of conflicting conjectures. Thou shall put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim. Ex. xxviii. 30. And when Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets. 1 Sam. xxviii. 6.  Note: Professor Plumptre supposes the Urim to have been a clear and colorless stone set in the breastplate of the high priest as a symbol of light, answering to the mystic scarab in the pectoral plate of the ancient Egyptian priests, and that the Thummim was an image corresponding to that worn by the priestly judges of Egypt as a symbol of truth and purity of motive. By gazing steadfastly on these, he may have been thrown into a mysterious, half ecstatic state, akin to hypnotism, in which he lost all personal consciousness, and received a spiritual illumination and insight. 

URINARIUM:  A reservoir for urine, etc., for manure. 

URINARY:  A urinarium; also, a urinal. 

URINATE:  To discharge urine; to make water. 

URINATION:  The act or process of voiding urine; micturition. 

URINATIVE:  Provoking the flow of urine; uretic; diuretic. [R.] Bacon. 

URINATOR:  One who dives under water in search of something, as for pearls; a diver. [R.] Ray. 

URINE:  In mammals, a fluid excretion from the kidneys; in birds and reptiles, a solid or semisolid excretion.  Note: In man, the urine is a clear, transparent fluid of an amber color and peculiar odor, with an average density of 1.02. The average amount excreted in 24 hours is from 40 to 60 ounces (about 1,200 cubic centimeters). Chemically, the urine is mainly an aqueous solution of urea, salt (sodium chloride), and uric acid, together with some hippuric acid and peculiar pigments. It usually has an acid reaction, owing to the presence of acid phosphates of soda or free uric acid. Normally, it contains about 960 parts of water to 40 parts of solid matter, and the daily average excretion is 35 grams (540 grains) of urea, 0.75 gram (11 grains) of uric acid, and 16.5 grams (260 grains) of salt. Abnormally, it may contain sugar as in diabetes, albumen as in Bright's disease, bile pigments as in jaundice, or abnormal quantities of some one or more of the normal constituents. 

URINE:  To urinate. [Obs.] Bacon. 

URINIFEROUS:  Bearing or conveying urine; as, uriniferous tubules. 

URINIPAROUS:  Producing or preparing urine; as, the uriniparous tubes in the cortical portion of the kidney. 

URINOGENITAL:  Pertaining to the urinary and genital organs; genitourinary; urogenital; as, the urinogenital canal. 

URINOMETER:  A small hydrometer for determining the specific gravity of urine. 

URINOMETRY:  The estimation of the specific gravity of urine by the urinometer.  URINOSE; URINOUS U"ri*nose, U"ri*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. urineux. See Urine.]  Of or pertaining to urine, or partaking of its qualities; having the character or odor of urine; similar to urine. Arbuthnot. 

URITE:  One of the segments of the abdomen or post-abdomen of arthropods. 

URITH:  The bindings of a hedge. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

URN:  A measure of capacity for liquids, containing about three gallons and a haft, wine measure. It was haft the amphora, and four times the congius.  4. (Bot.)  A hollow body shaped like an urn, in which the spores of mosses are contained; a spore case; a theca.  5. A tea urn. See under Tea. Urn mosses (Bot.), the order of true mosses; -- so called because the capsules of many kinds are urn- shaped. 

URN:  To inclose in, or as in, an urn; to inurn. When horror universal shall descend, And heaven's dark concave urn all human race. Young. 

URNAL:  Of or pertaining to an urn; effected by an urn or urns. "Urnal interments." Sir T. Browne. 

URNFUL:  As much as an urn will hold; enough to fill an urn.  URN-SHAPED Urn"-shaped`, a.  Having the shape of an urn; as, the urn-shaped capsules of some mosses.  URO- U"ro-.  A combining form fr. Gr. o'y^ron, urine.  URO- U"ro-.  A combining form from Gr. o'yra`, the tail, the caudal extremity. 

UROBILIN:  A yellow pigment identical with hydrobilirubin, abundant in the highly colored urine of fever, and also present in normal urine. See Urochrome. 

UROCELE:  A morbid swelling of the scrotum due to extravasation of urine into it. 

UROCERATA:  A division of boring Hymenoptera, including Tremex and allied genera. See Illust. of Horntail. 

UROCHORD:  The central axis or cord in the tail of larval ascidians and of certain adult tunicates. [Written also urocord.] 

UROCHORDA:  Same as Tunicata. 

UROCHORDAL:  Of or pertaining to the Urochorda. 

UROCHROME:  A yellow urinary pigment, considered by Thudichum as the only pigment present in normal urine. It is regarded by Maly as identical with urobilin. 

UROCHS:  See Aurochs. 

UROCORD:  See Urochord. 

UROCYST:  The urinary bladder. 

URODELA:  An order of amphibians having the tail well developed and often long. It comprises the salamanders, tritons, and allied animals. 

URODELE:  One of the Urodela. 

URODELIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Urodela.  -- n.  One of the Urodela. 

UROERYTHRIN:  A reddish urinary pigment, considered as the substance which gives to the urine of rheumatism its characteristic color. It also causes the red color often seen in deposits of urates. 

UROGASTRIC:  Behind the stomach; -- said of two lobes of the carapace of certain crustaceans. 

UROGENITAL:  Same as Urinogenital. 

UROGLAUCIN:  A body identical with indigo blue, occasionally found in the urine in degeneration of the kidneys. It is readily formed by oxidation or decomposition of indican. 

UROHAEMATIN:  Urinary hæmatin; -- applied to the normal coloring matter of the urine, on the supposition that it is formed either directly or indirectly (through bilirubin) from the hæmatin of the blood. See Urochrome, and Urobilin. 

UROHYAL:  Of or pertaining to one or more median and posterior elements in the hyoidean arch of fishes.  -- n.  A urohyal bone or cartilage. 

UROLOGY:  See Uronology. 

UROMERE:  Any one of the abdominal segments of an arthropod. 

URONOLOGY:  That part of medicine which treats of urine. Dunglison. 

UROPOD:  Any one of the abdominal appendages of a crustacean, especially one of the posterior ones, which are often larger than the rest, and different in structure, and are used chiefly in locomotion. See Illust. of Crustacea, and Stomapoda. 

UROPODAL:  Of or pertaining to a uropod. 

UROPOETIC:  Producing, or favoring the production of, urine.  2. (Zoöl.)  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a system of organs which eliminate nitrogenous waste matter from the blood of certain invertebrates. 

UROPYGIAL:  Of or pertaining to the uropygium, or prominence at the base of the tail feathers, in birds. Uropygial gland, a peculiar sebaceous gland at the base of the tail feathers in most birds. It secretes an oily fluid which is spread over the feathers by preening. 

UROPYGIUM:  The prominence at the posterior extremity of a bird's body, which supports the feathers of the tail; the rump; -- sometimes called pope's nose. 

UROSACRAL:  Of or pertaining to both the caudal and sacral parts of the vertebral column; as, the urosacral vertebræ of birds. 

UROSCOPY:  The diagnosis of diseases by inspection of urine. Sir T. Browne. 

UROSOME:  The abdomen, or post-abdomen, of arthropods. 

UROSTEGE:  One of the plates on the under side of the tail of a serpent. 

UROSTEON:  A median ossification back of the lophosteon in the sternum of some birds. 

UROSTERNITE:  The sternal, or under piece, of any one of the uromeres of insects and other arthropods. 

UROSTYLE:  A styliform process forming the posterior extremity of the vertebral column in some fishes and amphibians. 

UROX:  The aurochs. 

UROXANATE:  A salt of uroxanic acid. 

UROXANIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H8N4O6, which is obtained, as a white crystalline substance, by the slow oxidation of uric acid in alkaline solution. 

UROXANTHIN:  Same as Indican. 

URRHODIN:  Indigo red, a product of the decomposition, or oxidation, of indican. It is sometimes found in the sediment of pathological urines. It is soluble in ether or alcohol, giving the solution a beautiful red color. Also called indigrubin. 

URRY:  A sort of blue or black clay lying near a vein of coal. 

URSA:  Either one of the Bears. See the Phrases below. Ursa Major Etym: [L.], the Great Bear, one of the most conspicuous of the northern constellations. It is situated near the pole, and contains the stars which form the Dipper, or Charles's Wain, two of which are the Pointers, or stars which point towards the North Star.  -- Ursa Minor Etym: [L.], the Little Bear, the constellation nearest the north pole. It contains the north star, or polestar, which is situated in the extremity of the tail. 

URSAL:  The ursine seal. See the Note under 1st Seal. 

URSIFORM:  Having the shape of a bear. 

URSINE:  Of or pertaining to a bear; resembling a bear. Ursine baboon. (Zoöl.) See Chacma.  -- Ursine dasyure (Zoöl.), the Tasmanian devil.  -- Ursine howler (Zoöl.), the araguato. See Illust. under Howler.  -- Ursine seal. (Zoöl.) See Sea bear, and the Note under 1st Seal. 

URSON:  The Canada porcupine. See Porcupine. 

URSUK:  The bearded seal. 

URSULA:  A beautiful North American butterfly (Basilarchia, or Limenitis, astyanax). Its wings are nearly black with red and blue spots and blotches. Called also red-spotted purple. 

URSULINE:  One of an order of nuns founded by St. Angela Merici, at Brescia, in Italy, about the year 1537, and so called from St. Ursula, under whose protection it was placed. The order was introduced into Canada as early as 1639, and into the United States in 1727. The members are devoted entirely to education. 

URSULINE:  Of or pertaining to St. Ursula, or the order of Ursulines; as, the Ursuline nuns. 

URSUS:  A genus of Carnivora including the common bears. 

URTICA:  A genus of plants including the common nettles. See Nettle, n. 

URTICACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order (Urticaceæ) of plants, of which the nettle is the type. The order includes also the hop, the elm, the mulberry, the fig, and many other plants. 

URTICAL:  Resembling nettles; -- said of several natural orders allied to urticaceous plants. 

URTICARIA:  The nettle rash, a disease characterized by a transient eruption of red pimples and of wheals, accompanied with a burning or stinging sensation and with itching; uredo. 

URTICATE:  To sting with, or as with, nettles; to irritate; to annoy. G. A. Sala. 

URTICATION:  The act or process of whipping or stinging with nettles; -- sometimes used in the treatment of paralysis. 

URUBU:  The black vulture (Catharista atrata). It ranges from the Southern United States to South America. See Vulture. 

URUS:  A very large, powerful, and savage extinct bovine animal (Bos urus or primigenius) anciently abundant in Europe. It appears to have still existed in the time of Julius Cæsar. It had very large horns, and was hardly capable of domestication. Called also, ur, ure, and tur. 

URVA:  The crab-eating ichneumon (Herpestes urva), native of India. The fur is black, annulated with white at the tip of each hair, and a white streak extends from the mouth to the shoulder. 

US:  The persons speaking, regarded as an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We. "Tell us a tale." Chaucer. Give us this day our daily bread. Matt. vi. 11. 

USABLE:  Capable of being used. 

USAGER:  One who has the use of anything in trust for another. [Obs.] Daniel. 

USANCE:  The time, fixed variously by the usage between different countries, when a bill of exchange is payable; as, a bill drawn on London at one usance, or at double usance. 

USANT:  Using; accustomed. [Obs.] "Usant for to steal." Chaucer.  USBEGS; USBEKS Us"begs, Us"beks, n. pl. (Ethnol.)  A Turkish tribe which about the close of the 15th century conquered, and settled in, that part of Asia now called Turkestan. [Written also Uzbecks, and Uzbeks.] 

USE:  The special form of ritual adopted for use in any diocese; as, the Sarum, or Canterbury, use; the Hereford use; the York use; the Roman use; etc. From henceforth all the whole realm shall have but one use. Pref. to Book of Common Prayer.  7. The premium paid for the possession and employment of borrowed money; interest; usury. [Obs.] Thou art more obliged to pay duty and tribute, use and principal, to him. Jer. Taylor.  8. Etym: [In this sense probably a corruption of OF. oes, fr. L. opus need, business, employment, work. Cf. Operate.] (Law)  The benefit or profit of lands and tenements. Use imports a trust and confidence reposed in a man for the holding of lands. He to whose use or benefit the trust is intended shall enjoy the profits. An estate is granted and limited to A for the use of B.  9. (Forging)  A stab of iron welded to the side of a forging, as a shaft, near the end, and afterward drawn down, by hammering, so as to lengthen the forging. Contingent, or Springing, use (Law), a use to come into operation on a future uncertain event.  -- In use. (a) In employment; in customary practice observance. (b) In heat; -- said especially of mares. J. H. Walsh.  -- Of no use, useless; of no advantage.  -- Of use, useful; of advantage; profitable.  -- Out of use, not in employment.  -- Resulting use (Law), a use, which, being limited by the deed, expires or can not vest, and results or returns to him who raised it, after such expiration.  -- Secondary, or Shifting, use, a use which, though executed, may change from one to another by circumstances. Blackstone.  -- Statute of uses (Eng. Law), the stat. 27 Henry VIII., cap. 10, which transfers uses into possession, or which unites the use and possession.  -- To make use of, To put to use, to employ; to derive service from; to use. 

USEFUL:  Full of use, advantage, or profit; producing, or having power to produce, good; serviceable for any end or object; helpful toward advancing any purpose; beneficial; profitable; advantageous; as, vessels and instruments useful in a family; books useful for improvement; useful knowledge; useful arts. To what can I useful! Milton. 

USEFULLY:  In a useful manner. 

USEFULNESS:  The quality or state of being useful; utility; serviceableness; advantage. Addison.  Syn.  -- Utility; value; profit. See Utility. 

USELESS:  Having, or being of, no use; unserviceable; producing no good end; answering no valuable purpose; not advancing the end proposed; unprofitable; ineffectual; as, a useless garment; useless pity. Not to sit idle with so great a gift Useless, and thence ridiculous. Milton.  Syn.  -- Fruitless; ineffectual.  -- Useless, Fruitless, Ineffectual. We speak of an attempt, effort, etc., as being useless when there are in it inherent difficulties which forbid the hope of success, as fruitless when it fails, not from any such difficulties, but from some unexpected hindrance arising to frustrate it; as, the design was rendered fruitless by the death of its projector. Ineffectual nearly resembles fruitless, but implies a failure of a less hopeless character; as, after several ineffectual efforts, I at last succeeded. Useless are all words Till you have writ "performance" with your swords. The other is for waiving. Beau. & Fl. Waiving all searches into antiquity, in relation to this controversy, as being either needless or fruitless. Waterland. Even our blessed Savior's preaching, who spake as never man spake, was ineffectual to many. Bp. Stillingfleet. -- Use"less*ly, adv.  -- Use"less*ness, n. 

USER:  Enjoyment of property; use. Mozley & W.  U-SHAPED U"-shaped`, a.  Having the form of the letter U; specif. (Phys. Geog.),  of valleys, resembling a broad U in cross profile. 

USHER:  To introduce or escort, as an usher, forerunner, or harbinger; to forerun; -- sometimes followed by in or forth; as, to usher in a stranger; to usher forth the guests; to usher a visitor into the room. The stars that usher evening rose. Milton. The Examiner was ushered into the world by a letter, setting forth the great genius of the author. Addison. 

USHERANCE:  The act of ushering, or the state of being ushered in. [Obs.] Shaftesbury. 

USHERDOM:  The office or position of an usher; ushership; also, ushers, collectively. [R.] 

USHERLESS:  Destitute of an usher. Marston. 

USHERSHIP:  The office of an usher; usherdom. 

USITATIVE:  Denoting usual or customary action. "The usitative aorist." Alford. 

USNEA:  A genus of lichens, most of the species of which have long, gray, pendulous, and finely branched fronds. Usnea barbata is the common bearded lichen which grows on branches of trees in northern forests. 

USNIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid obtained, as a yellow crystalline substance, from certain genera of lichens (Usnea, Parmelia, etc.). 

USSELF:  Ourselves. [Obs.] Wyclif. Piers Plowman. Chaucer. 

USTION:  The act of burning, or the state of being burned. [R.] Johnson. 

USTORIOUS:  Having the quality of burning. [R.] I. Watts. 

USTULATE:  Blackened as if burned. 

USTULATION:  The operation of expelling one substance from another by heat, as sulphur or arsenic from ores, in a muffle.  3. (Pharm.) (a) The roasting or drying of moist substances so as prepare them for pulverizing. (b) The burning of wine.  4. Lascivious passion; concupiscence. [Obs.] It is not certain that they took the better part when they chose ustulation before marriage, expressly against the apostle. Jer. Taylor. 

USUAL:  Such as is in common use; such as occurs in ordinary practice, or in the ordinary course of events; customary; ordinary; habitual; common. Consultation with oracles was a thing very usual and frequent in their times. Hooker. We can make friends of these usual enemies. Baxter. -- U"su*al*ly, adv.  -- U"su*al*ness, n. 

USUCAPTION:  The acquisition of the title or right to property by the uninterrupted possession of it for a certain term prescribed by law; -- the same as prescription in common law. 

USUFRUCT:  The right of using and enjoying the profits of an estate or other thing belonging to another, without impairing the substance. Burrill. 

USUFRUCTUARY:  A person who has the use of property and reaps the profits of it. Wharton. 

USUFRUCTUARY:  Of or pertaining to a usufruct; having the nature of a usufruct. The ordinary graces bequeathed by Christ to his church, as the usufructuary property of all its members. Coleridge.  USURARIOUS; USURARY U`su*ra"ri*ous, U"su*ra*ry, a. Etym: [L. usurarius that serves for use, that pays interest. See Usurer.]  Usurious. [Obs.] "Usurarious contracts." Jer. Taylor. Bp. Hall. 

USURE:  To practice usury; to charge unlawful interest. [Obs.] "The usuringb senate." Shak. I usured not ne to me usured any man. Wyclif (Jer. xv. 10). 

USURE:  Usury. [Obs.] Wyclif. Foul usure and lucre of villainy. Chaucer. 

USURP:  To seize, and hold in possession, by force, or without right; as, to usurp a throne; to usurp the prerogatives of the crown; to usurp power; to usurp the right of a patron is to oust or dispossess him. Alack, thou dost usurp authority. Shak. Another revolution, to get rid of this illegitimate and usurped government, would of course be perfectly justifiable. Burke.  Note: Usurp is applied to seizure and use of office, functions, powers, rights, etc.; it is not applied to common dispossession of private property.  Syn.  -- To arrogate; assume; appropriate. 

USURP:  To commit forcible seizure of place, power, functions, or the like, without right; to commit unjust encroachments; to be, or act as, a usurper. The parish churches on which the Presbyterians and fanatics had usurped. Evelyn. And now the Spirits of the Mind Are busy with poor Peter Bell; Upon the rights of visual sense Usurping, with a prevalence More terrible than magic spell. Wordsworth. 

USURPANT:  Usurping; encroaching. [Obs.] Gauden. 

USURPATORY:  Marked by usurpation; usurping. [R.] 

USURPATURE:  Usurpation. [R.] "Beneath man's usurpature." R. Browning. 

USURPER:  One who usurps; especially, one who seizes illegally on sovereign power; as, the usurper of a throne, of power, or of the rights of a patron. A crown will not want pretenders to claim it, not usurpers, if their power serves them, to possess it. South. 

USURPINGLY:  In a usurping manner. 

USURY:  Interest in excess of a legal rate charged to a borrower for the use of money.  Note: The practice of requiring in repayment of money lent anything more than the amount lent, was formerly thought to be a great moral wrong, and the greater, the more was taken. Now it is not deemed more wrong to take pay for the use of money than for the use of a house, or a horse, or any other property. But the lingering influence of the former opinion, together with the fact that the nature of money makes it easier for the lender to oppress the borrower, has caused nearly all Christian nations to fix by law the rate of compensation for the use of money. Of late years, however, the opinion that money should be borrowed and repaid, or bought and sold, upon whatever terms the parties should agree to, like any other property, has gained ground everywhere. Am. Cyc. 

UT:  The first note in Guido's musical scale, now usually superseded by do. See Solmization. 

UTAS:  The eighth day after any term or feast; the octave; as, the utas of St. Michael. Cowell. The marriage was celebrated and Canterbury, and in the utas of St. Hilary next ensuing she was crowned. Holinshed.  2. Hence, festivity; merriment. [Obs.] Shak. 

UTENSIL:  That which is used; an instrument; an implement; especially, an instrument or vessel used in a kitchen, or in domestic and farming business. Wagons fraught with utensils of war. Milton. 

UTEROGESTATION:  Gestation in the womb from conception to birth; pregnancy. Pritchard. 

UTEROVAGINAL:  Pertaining to both the uterus and the vagina. 

UTERUS:  The organ of a female mammal in which the young are developed previous to birth; the womb.  Note: The uterus is simply an enlargement of the oviduct, and in the lower mammals there is one on each side, but in the higher forms the two become more or less completely united into one. In many male mammals there is a small vesicle, opening into the urinogenital canal, which corresponds to the uterus of the female and is called the male uterus, or Etym: [NL.] uterus masculinus.  2. (Zoöl.)  A receptacle, or pouch, connected with the oviducts of many invertebrates in which the eggs are retained until they hatch or until the embryos develop more or less. See Illust. of Hermaphrodite in Append. 

UTES:  An extensive tribe of North American Indians of the Shoshone stock, inhabiting Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona, and adjacent regions. They are subdivided into several subordinate tribes, some of which are among the most degraded of North American Indians. 

UTIA:  Any species of large West Indian rodents of the genus Capromys, or Utia. In general appearance and habits they resemble rats, but they are as large as rabbits. 

UTICA:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a subdivision of the Trenton Period of the Lower Silurian, characterized in the State of New York by beds of shale. 

UTILE:  Profitable; useful. [Obs.] 

UTILITARIAN:  One who holds the doctrine of utilitarianism. The utilitarians are for merging all the particular virtues into one, and would substitute in their place the greatest usefulness, as the alone principle to which every question respecting the morality of actions should be referred. Chalmers. But what is a utilitarian Simply one who prefers the useful to the useless; and who does not Sir W. Hamilton. 

UTILITY:  Adaptation to satisfy the desires or wants; intrinsic value. See Note under Value, 2. Value in use is utility, and nothing else, and in political economy should be called by that name and no other. F. A. Walker.  3. Happiness; the greatest good, or happiness, of the greatest number, -- the foundation of utilitarianism. J. S. Mill.  Syn.  -- Usefulness; advantageous; benefit; profit; avail; service.  -- Utility, Usefulness. Usefulness has an Anglo-Saxon prefix, utility is Latin; and hence the former is used chiefly of things in the concrete, while the latter is employed more in a general and abstract sense. Thus, we speak of the utility of an invention, and the usefulness of the thing invented; of the utility of an institution, and the usefulness of an individual. So beauty and utility (not usefulness) are brought into comparison. Still, the words are often used interchangeably. 

UTILIZABLE:  Capable of being utilized; as, the utilizable products of the gas works. 

UTILIZATION:  The act of utilizing, or the state of being utilized. 

UTILIZE:  To make useful; to turn to profitable account or use; to make use of; as, to utilize the whole power of a machine; to utilize one's opportunities. In former ages, the mile-long corridors, with their numerous alcoves, might have been utilized as . . . dungeons. Hawthorne.  UTI POSSIDETIS U`ti pos`si*de"tis. Etym: [L., as you possess.]  1. (Internat. Law)  The basis or principle of a treaty which leaves belligerents mutually in possession of what they have acquired by their arms during the war. Brande & C.  2. (Roman Law)  A species of interdict granted to one who was in possession of an immovable thing, in order that he might be declared the legal possessor. Burrill. 

UTIS:  See Utas. [Obs.] 

UTLARY:  Outlawry. [Obs.] Camden. 

UTMOST:  The most that can be; the farthest limit; the greatest power, degree, or effort; as, he has done his utmost; try your utmost. We have tried the utmost of our friends. Shak. 

UTOPIAN:  Of or pertaining to Utopia; resembling Utopia; hence, ideal; chimerical; fanciful; founded upon, or involving, imaginary perfections; as, Utopian projects; Utopian happiness. 

UTOPIAN:  An inhabitant of Utopia; hence, one who believes in the perfectibility of human society; a visionary; an idealist; an optimist. Hooker. 

UTOPIANISM:  The ideas, views, aims, etc., of a Utopian; impracticable schemes of human perfection; optimism. 

UTOPIANIST:  An Utopian; an optimist. 

UTOPICAL:  Utopian; ideal. [Obs.] "Utopical perfection." Bp. Hall. 

UTOPIST:  A Utopian. 

UTRAQUIST:  One who receives the eucharist in both kinds; esp., one of a body of Hussites who in the 15th century fought for the right to do this. Called also Calixtines. 

UTRICLE:  A microscopic cell in the structure of an egg, animal, or plant.  3. (Bot.)  A small, thin-walled, one-seeded fruit, as of goosefoot. Gray.  4. (Anat.)  A utriculus. 

UTRICULARIA:  A genus of aquatic flowering plants, in which the submersed leaves bear many little utricles, or ascidia. See Ascidium, 

UTRICULATE:  Resembling a bladder; swollen like a bladder; inflated; utricular. Dana. 

UTRICULOID:  Resembling a bladder; utricular; utriculate. Dana. 

UTRICULUS:  A little sac, or bag; a utricle; especially, a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear. See the Note under Ear.  UTRO; UTRO-; UTERO U"tro, U"ter`o.  - (connection with, or relation to, the uterus; as in utro- ovarian. 

UTTERABLE:  Capable of being uttered. 

UTTERANCE:  The last extremity; the end; death; outrance. [Obs.] Annibal forced those captives whom he had taken of our men to skirmish one against another to the utterance. Holland. 

UTTERER:  One who utters. Spenser. 

UTTEREST:  Uttermost. To the utterest proof of her courage. Chaucer. 

UTTERLESS:  Incapable of being uttered. [Obs.] A clamoring debate of utterless things. Milton. 

UTTERLY:  In an utter manner; to the full extent; fully; totally; as, utterly ruined; it is utterly vain. 

UTTERMORE:  Further; outer; utter. [Obs. & R.] Holland. 

UTTERMOST:  Extreme; utmost; being; in the farthest, greatest, or highest degree; as, the uttermost extent or end. "In this uttermost distress." Milton. 

UTTERMOST:  The utmost; the highest or greatest degree; the farthest extent. Tennyson. Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him. Heb. vii. 25. He cannot have sufficient honor done unto him; but the uttermost we can do, we must. Hooker. 

UTTERNESS:  The quality or state of being utter, or extreme; extremity; utmost; uttermost. [R.] 

UVA:  A small pulpy or juicy fruit containing several seeds and having a thin skin, as a grape. 

UVATE:  A conserve made of grapes.  UVA-URSI U`va-ur"si, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. uva grape + ursus bear.] (Bot.)  The bearberry. 

UVEA:  The posterior pigmented layer of the iris; -- sometimes applied to the whole iris together with the choroid coat. 

UVEOUS:  Resembling a grape. 

UVIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, grapes; specifically, designating an organic acid, C7H8O3 (also called pyrotritartaric acid), obtained as a white crystalline substance by the decomposition of tartaric and pyrotartaric acids. 

UVITIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, CH3C6H3(CO2H)2, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the partial oxidation of mesitylene; -- called also mesitic acid. 

UVITONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is obtained as a white crystalline substance by the action of ammonia on pyrotartaric acid. 

UVROU:  See Euphroe. 

UVULA:  The pendent fleshy lobe in the middle of the posterior border of the soft palate.  Note: The term is also applied to a somewhat similar lobe on the under side of the cerebellum and to another on the inner surface of the neck of the bladder. 

UVULAR:  Of or pertaining to a uvula. 

UVULATOME:  An instrument for removing the uvula. 

UVULATOMY:  The operation of removing the uvula. 

UVULITIS:  Inflammation of the uvula. 

UWAROWITE:  Ouvarovite. 

UXORIAL:  Dotingly fond of, or servilely submissive to, a wife; uxorious; also, becoming a wife; pertaining to a wife. [R.] The speech [of Zipporah, Ex. iv. 25] is not a speech of reproach or indignation, but of uxorial endearment. Geddes. 

UXORICIDAL:  Of or pertaining to uxoricide; tending to uxoricide. 

UXORIOUS:  Excessively fond of, or submissive to, a wife; being a dependent husband. "Uxorious magistrates." Milton. How wouldst thou insult, When I must live uxorious to thy will In perfect thraldom! Milton. -- Uxo*o"ri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Ux*o"ri*ous*ness, n. 

UZEMA:  A Burman measure of twelve miles. 

VAAGMER:  The dealfish. [Written also vaagmær, and vaagmar.] 

VACANT:  Abandoned; having no heir, possessor, claimant, or occupier; as, a vacant estate. Bouvier. Vacant succession (Law), one that is claimed by no person, or where all the heirs are unknown, or where all the known heirs to it have renounced it. Burrill.  Syn.  -- Empty; void; devoid; free; unemployed; disengaged; unincumbered; uncrowded; idle.  -- Vacant, Empty. A thing is empty when there is nothing in it; as, an empty room, or an empty noddle. Vacant adds the idea of having been previously filled, or intended to be filled or occupied; as, a vacant seat at table; a vacant office; vacant hours. When we speak of a vacant look or a vacant mind, we imply the absence of the intelligence naturally to be expected there. 

VACANTLY:  In a vacant manner; inanely. 

VACATION:  Intermission of judicial proceedings; the space of time between the end of one term and the beginning of the next; nonterm; recess. "With lawyers in the vacation." Shak. (b) The intermission of the regular studies and exercises of an educational institution between terms; holidays; as, the spring vacation. (c) The time when an office is vacant; esp. (Eccl.), the time when a see, or other spiritual dignity, is vacant. 

VACATUR:  An order of court by which a proceeding is set aside or annulled. 

VACCARY:  A cow house, dairy house, or cow pasture. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

VACCINA:  Vaccinia. 

VACCINAL:  Of or pertaining to vaccinia or vaccination. 

VACCINATE:  To inoculate with the cowpox by means of a virus, called vaccine, taken either directly or indirectly from cows. 

VACCINATION:  The act, art, or practice of vaccinating, or inoculating with the cowpox, in order to prevent or mitigate an attack of smallpox. Cf. Inoculation.  Note: In recent use, vaccination sometimes includes inoculation with any virus as a preventive measure; as, vaccination of cholera. 

VACCINATOR:  One who, or that which, vaccinates. 

VACCINE:  Of or pertaining to cows; pertaining to, derived from, or caused by, vaccinia; as, vaccine virus; the vaccine disease.  -- n.  The virus of vaccinia used in vaccination.  VACCINE POINT Vac"cine point`. (Med.)  See Point, n., 26. 

VACCINIA:  Cowpox; vaccina. See Cowpox. 

VACCINIST:  A vaccinator. 

VACCINIUM:  A genus of ericaceous shrubs including the various kinds of blueberries and the true cranberries. 

VACHER:  A keeper of stock or cattle; a herdsman. [Southwestern U. S.] Bartlett. 

VACHERY:  A piece of strong steel wire with the ends curved and pointed, used on toe or quarter cracks to bind the edges together and prevent motion. It is clasped into two notches, one on each side of the crack, burned into the wall with a cautery iron. 

VACILLANCY:  The quality or state of being vacillant, or wavering. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

VACILLANT:  Vacillating; wavering; fluctuating; irresolute. 

VACILLATING:  Inclined to fluctuate; wavering. Tennyson.  -- Vac"il*la`ting*ly, adv. 

VACILLATORY:  Inclined to vacillate; wavering; irresolute. Hawthorne. 

VACUATE:  To make void, or empty. [R.] 

VACUATION:  The act of emptying; evacuation. [R.] 

VACUIST:  One who holds the doctrine that the space between the bodies of the universe, or the molecules and atoms of matter., is a vacuum; -- opposed to plenist. 

VACUNA:  The goddess of rural leisure, to whom the husbandmen sacrificed at the close of the harvest. She was especially honored by the Sabines. 

VACUOLATED:  Full of vacuoles, or small air cavities; as, vacuolated cells. 

VACUOLATION:  Formation into, or multiplication of, vacuoles. 

VACUOLE:  A small air cell, or globular space, in the interior of organic cells, either containing air, or a pellucid watery liquid, or some special chemical secretions of the cell protoplasm. Contractile vacuole. (Zoöl.) See under Contractile, and see Illusts. of Infusoria, and Lobosa.  -- Food vacuole. (Zoöl.) See under Food, and see Illust. of Infusoria. 

VACUOUS:  Empty; unfilled; void; vacant. Boundless the deep, because I am who fill Infinitude; nor vacuous the space. Milton. That the few may lead selfish and vacuous days. J. Morley. 

VACUOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being vacuous; emptiness; vacuity. W. Montagu. 

VACUUM:  A space entirely devoid of matter (called also, by way of distinction, absolute vacuum); hence, in a more general sense, a space, as the interior of a closed vessel, which has been exhausted to a high or the highest degree by an air pump or other artificial means; as, water boils at a reduced temperature in a vacuum.  2. The condition of rarefaction, or reduction of pressure below that of the atmosphere, in a vessel, as the condenser of a steam engine, which is nearly exhausted of air or steam, etc.; as, a vacuum of 26 inches of mercury, or 13 pounds per square inch. Vacuum brake, a kind of continuous brake operated by exhausting the air from some appliance under each car, and so causing the pressure of the atmosphere to apply the brakes.  -- Vacuum pan (Technol.), a kind of large closed metallic retort used in sugar making for boiling down sirup. It is so connected with an exhausting apparatus that a partial vacuum is formed within. This allows the evaporation and concentration to take place at a lower atmospheric pressure and hence also at a lower temperature, which largely obviates the danger of burning the sugar, and shortens the process.  -- Vacuum pump. Same as Pulsometer, 1.  -- Vacuum tube (Phys.), a glass tube provided with platinum electrodes and exhausted, for the passage of the electrical discharge; a Geissler tube.  -- Vacuum valve, a safety valve opening inward to admit air to a vessel in which the pressure is less than that of the atmosphere, in order to prevent collapse.  -- Torricellian vacuum. See under Torricellian.  VACUUM CLEANER Vac"u*um clean"er.  A machine for cleaning carpets, tapestry, upholstered work, etc., by suction. 

VADANTES:  An extensive artificial group of birds including the wading, swimming, and cursorial birds. 

VADE:  To fade; hence, to vanish. [Obs.] " Summer leaves all vaded." Shak. They into dust shall vade. Spenser.  VADE MECUM Va`de me"cum. Etym: [L., go with me.]  A book or other thing that a person carries with him as a constant companion; a manual; a handbook. 

VADIMONY:  A bond or pledge for appearance before a judge on a certain day. [Obs.] 

VADIUM:  Pledge; security; bail. See Mortgage. Vadium vivum Etym: [LL.] (Law), a living pledge, which exists where an estate is granted until a debt is paid out of its proceeds. 

VAE:  See Voe. [Scot.] 

VAFROUS:  Crafty; cunning; sly; as, vafrous tricks. [Obs.] Feltham. 

VAGABOND:  One who wanders from place to place, having no fixed dwelling, or not abiding in it, and usually without the means of honest livelihood; a vagrant; a tramp; hence, a worthless person; a rascal. A fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be. Gen. iv. 12.  Note: In English and American law, vagabond is used in bad sense, denoting one who is without a home; a strolling, idle, worthless person. Vagabonds are described in old English statutes as "such as wake on the night and sleep on the day, and haunt customable taverns and alehouses, and routs about; and no man wot from whence they came, nor whither they go." In American law, the term vagrant is employed in the same sense. Cf Rogue, n., 1. Burrill. Bouvier. 

VAGABOND:  To play the vagabond; to wander like a vagabond; to stroll. On every part my vagabonding sight Did cast, and drown mine eyes in sweet delight. Drummond. 

VAGABONDAGE:  The condition of a vagabond; a state or habit of wandering about in idleness; vagrancy. 

VAGABONDISM:  Vagabondage. 

VAGABONDIZE:  To play the vagabond; to wander about in idleness. 

VAGABONDRY:  Vagabondage. 

VAGAL:  Of or pertaining to the vagus, or pneumogastric nerves; pneumogastric. 

VAGANCY:  A wandering; vagrancy. [Obs.] A thousand vagancies of glory and desight. Milton. 

VAGANTES:  A tribe of spiders, comprising some of those which take their prey in a web, but which also frequently run with agility, and chase and seize their prey. 

VAGARIOUS:  Given to, or characterized by, vagaries; capricious; whimsical; crochety. 

VAGIENT:  Crying like a child. [Obs.] 

VAGINA:  The terminal part of the oviduct in insects and various other invertebrates. See Illust., of Spermatheca.  3. (Bot.)  The basal expansion of certain leaves, which inwraps the stem; a sheath.  4. (Arch.)  The shaft of a terminus, from which the bust of figure seems to issue or arise. 

VAGINAL:  Of or pertaining to the vagina of the genital canal; as, the vaginal artery. 

VAGINANT:  Serving to in invest, or sheathe; sheathing. Vaginant leaf (Bot.), a leaf investing the stem or branch by its base, which has the form of a tube.  VAGINATE; VAGINATED Vag"i*nate, Vag"i*na`ted, a. Etym: [See Vagina.]  Invested with, or as if with, a sheath; as, a vaginate stem, or one invested by the tubular base of a leaf. 

VAGINATI:  A tribe of birds comprising the sheathbills. 

VAGINERVOSE:  Having the nerves, or veins, placed in apparent disorder. 

VAGINICOLA:  A genus of Infusoria which form minute vaselike or tubular cases in which they dwell. 

VAGINISMUS:  A painful spasmodic contraction of the vagina, often rendering copulation impossible. 

VAGINITIS:  Inflammation of the vagina, or the genital canal, usually of its mucous living membrane. 

VAGINOPENNOUS:  Having elytra; sheath-winged. [R.] 

VAGINULE:  A vaginula. 

VAGISSATE:  To caper or frolic. [Obs.] 

VAGOUS:  Wandering; unsettled. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 

VAGRANCY:  The quality or state of being a vagrant; a wandering without a settled home; an unsettled condition; vagabondism. Threatened away into banishment and vagrancy. Barrow. 

VAGRANT:  One who strolls from place to place; one who has no settled habitation; an idle wanderer; a sturdy beggar; an incorrigible rogue; a vagabond. Vagrants and outlaws shall offend thy view. Prior. 

VAGRANTLY:  In a vagrant manner. 

VAGRANTNESS:  State of being vagrant; vagrancy. 

VAGUE:  An indefinite expanse. [R.] The gray vague of unsympathizing sea. Lowell. 

VAGUE:  To wander; to roam; to stray. [Obs.] "[The soul] doth vague and wander." Holland. 

VAGUE:  A wandering; a vagary. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

VAGUELY:  In a vague manner. What he vaguely hinted at, but dared not speak. Hawthorne. 

VAGUENESS:  The quality or state of being vague. 

VAGUS:  Wandering; -- applied especially to the pneumogastric nerve.  -- n.  The vagus, ore pneumogastric, nerve. 

VAIL:  Same as Veil. 

VAIL:  To yield or recede; to give place; to show respect by yielding, uncovering, or the like. [Written also vale, and veil.] [Obs.] Thy convenience must vail to thy neighbor's necessity. South. 

VAIL:  Submission; decline; descent. [Obs.] 

VAILER:  One who vails. [Obs.] Overbury. 

VAIMURE:  An outer, or exterior. wall. See Vauntmure. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 

VAIN:  Vanity; emptiness; -- now used only in the phrase in vain. For vain. See In vain. [Obs.] Shak.  -- In vain, to no purpose; without effect; ineffectually. " In vain doth valor bleed." Milton. " In vain they do worship me." Matt. xv. 9.  -- To take the name of God in vain, to use the name of God with levity or profaneness. 

VAINGLORIOUS:  Feeling or indicating vainglory; elated by vanity; boastful. "Arrogant and vainglorious expression." Sir M. Hale.  -- Vain`glo"ri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Vain`glo"ri*ous*ness, n. 

VAINGLORY:  Excessive vanity excited by one's own performances; empty pride; undue elation of mind; vain show; boastfulness. He had nothing of vainglory. Bacon. The man's undone forever; for if Hector break not his neck i' the combat, he'll break't himself in vainglory. Shak. 

VAINLY:  In a vain manner; in vain. 

VAINNESS:  The quality or state of being vain. 

VAIR:  The skin of the squirrel, much used in the fourteenth century as fur for garments, and frequently mentioned by writers of that period in describing the costly dresses of kings, nobles, and prelates. It is represented in heraldry by a series of small shields placed close together, and alternately white and blue. Fairholt. No vair or ermine decked his garment. Sir W. Scott. Counter vair (Her.), a fur resembling vair, except in the arrangement of the patches or figures. 

VAIRY:  Charged with vair; variegated with shield-shaped figures. See Vair. 

VAISHNAVA:  A worshiper of the god Vishnu in any of his incarnations. 

VAISHNAVISM:  The worship of Vishnu. 

VAISYA:  The third of the four great original castes among the Hindoos, now either extinct or partially represented by the mercantile class of Banyas. See the Note under Caste, 1. 

VAIVODE:  See Waywode. 

VAKEEL:  A native attorney or agent; also, an ambassador. [India] 

VALANCE:  To furnish with a valance; to decorate with hangings or drapery. His old fringed chair valanced around with party-colored worsted bobs. Sterne. 

VALE:  A tract of low ground, or of land between hills; a valley. " Make me a cottage in the vale." Tennyson. Beyond this vale of tears there is a life above. Montgomery. In those fair vales, by nature formed to please. Harte.  Note: Vale is more commonly used in poetry, and valley in prose and common discourse.  Syn.  -- Valley; dingle; dell; dale. 

VALE:  See 2d Vail, 3. 

VALEDICTION:  A farewell; a bidding farewell. Donne. 

VALEDICTORIAN:  One who pronounces a valedictory address; especially, in American colleges, the student who pronounces the valedictory of the graduating class at the annual commencement, usually the student who ranks first in scholarship. 

VALEDICTORY:  Bidding farewell; suitable or designed for an occasion of leave-taking; as, a valedictory oration. 

VALEDICTORY:  A valedictory oration or address spoken at commencement in American colleges or seminaries by one of the graduating class, usually by the leading scholar. 

VALENCE:  The degree of combining power of an atom (or radical) as shown by the number of atoms of hydrogen (or of other monads, as chlorine, sodium, etc.) with which it will combine, or for which it can be substituted, or with which it can be compared; thus, an atom of hydrogen is a monad, and has a valence of one; the atoms of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon are respectively dyads, triads, and tetrads, and have a valence respectively of two, three, and four.  Note: The valence of certain elements varies in different compounds. Valence in degree may extend as high as seven or eight, as in the cases of iodine and osmium respectively. The doctrine of valence has been of fundamental importance in distinguishing the equivalence from the atomic weight, and is an essential factor in explaining the chemical structures of compounds. 

VALENCIA:  A kind of woven fabric for waistcoats, having the weft of wool and the warp of silk or cotton. [Written also valentia.]  VALENCIENNES LACE Va*len`ci*ennes" lace". Etym: [F.; -- so called after the town of Valenciennes.]  A rich kind of lace made at Valenciennes, in France. Each piece is made throughout, ground and pattern, by the same person and with the same thread, the pattern being worked in the net. 

VALENTIA:  See Valencia. 

VALENTINIAN:  One of a school of Judaizing Gnostics in the second century; -- so called from Valentinus, the founder. 

VALERAMIDE:  The acid amide derivative of valeric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance. 

VALERATE:  A salt of valeric acid. 

VALERIAN:  Any plant of the genus Valeriana. The root of the officinal valerian (V. officinalis) has a strong smell, and is much used in medicine as an antispasmodic. Greek valerian (Bot.), a plant (Polemonium cæruleum) with blue or white flowers, and leaves resembling those of the officinal valerian. 

VALERIANACEOUS:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of a natural order (Valerianaccæ) of which the valerian is the type. The order includes also the corn salads and the oriental spikenard. 

VALERIANATE:  A valerate. 

VALERIANIC:  Performance to, or obtained from, valerian root; specifically, designating an acid which is usually called valeric acid. 

VALERIC:  Valerianic; specifically, designating any one of three metameric acids, of which the typical one (called also inactive valeric acid), C4H9CO2H, is obtained from valerian root and other sources, as a corrosive, mobile, oily liquid, having a strong acid taste, and an odor of old cheese. Active valeric acid, a metameric variety which turns the plane of polarization to the right, although formed by the oxidation of a levorotatory amyl alcohol. 

VALERIDINE:  A base, C10H19N, produced by heating valeric aldehyde with ammonia. It is probably related to the conine alkaloids. 

VALERIN:  A salt of valeric acid with glycerin, occurring in butter, dolphin oil., and forming an forming an oily liquid with a slightly unpleasant odor. 

VALERITRINE:  A base, C15H27N, produced together with valeridine, which it resembles.  VALERO- Val"er*o-. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) indicating derivation from, or relation to, valerian or some of its products, as valeric acid; as in valerolactone, a colorless oily liquid produced as the anhydride of an hydroxy valeric acid. 

VALERONE:  A ketone of valeric acid obtained as an oily liquid. 

VALERYL:  The hypothetical radical C5H9O, regarded as the essential nucleus of certain valeric acid derivatives. 

VALERYLENE:  A liquid hydrocarbon, C5H8; -- called also pentine. 

VALET:  A kind of goad or stick with a point of iron. Valet de chambre ( Etym: [F.], a body servant, or personal attendant. 

VALETUDINARIAN:  Of infirm health; seeking to recover health; sickly; weakly; infirm. My feeble health and valetudinarian stomach. Coleridge. The virtue which the world wants is a healthful virtue, not a valetudinarian virtue. Macaulay. 

VALETUDINARIAN:  A person of a weak or sickly constitution; one who is seeking to recover health. Valetudinarians must live where they can command and scold. Swift. 

VALETUDINARIANISM:  The condition of a valetudinarian; a state of feeble health; infirmity. 

VALETUDINARY:  Infirm; sickly; valetudinarian.  -- Val`e*tu"di*na*ri*ness, n. It renders the habit of society dangerously. Burke. 

VALETUDINARY:  A valetudinarian. 

VALETUDINOUS:  Valetudinarian. [Obs.] "The valetudinous condition of King Edward." Fuller. 

VALHALLA:  The palace of immortality, inhabited by the souls of heroes slain in battle.  2. Fig.: A hall or temple adorned with statues and memorials of a nation's heroes; specifically, the Pantheon near Ratisbon, in Bavaria, consecrated to the illustrious dead of all Germany.  VALIANCE; VALIANCY Val"iance, Val"ian*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. vaillance. See Valiant.]  The quality or state of being valiant; bravery; valor. [Obs.] "His doughty valiance." Spenser. 

VALID:  Having legal strength or force; executed with the proper formalities; incapable of being rightfully overthrown or set aside; as, a valid deed; a valid covenant; a valid instrument of any kind; a valid claim or title; a valid marriage.  Syn.  -- Prevalent; available; efficacious; just; good; weighty; sufficient; sound; well-grounded. 

VALIDATE:  To confirm; to render valid; to give legal force to. The chamber of deputies . . . refusing to validate at once the election of an official candidate. London Spectator. 

VALIDATION:  The act of giving validity. [R.] Knowles. 

VALIDITY:  Legal strength, force, or authority; that quality of a thing which renders it supportable in law, or equity; as, the validity of a will; the validity of a contract, claim, or title.  3. Value. [Obs.] "Rich validity." Shak. 

VALIDLY:  In a valid manner; so as to be valid. 

VALIDNESS:  The quality or state of being valid. 

VALINCH:  A tube for drawing liquors from a cask by the bunghole. [Written also velinche.] 

VALISE:  A small sack or case, usually of leather, but sometimes of other material, for containing the clothes, toilet articles, etc., of a traveler; a traveling bag; a portmanteau. 

VALKYRIA:  One of the maidens of Odin, represented as awful and beautiful, who presided over battle and marked out those who were to be slain, and who also ministered at the feasts of heroes in Valhalla. [Written also Valkyr, and Walkyr.] 

VALKYRIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Valkyrias; hence, relating to battle. "Ourself have often tried Valkyrian hymns." Tennyson. 

VALLANCY:  A large wig that shades the face. [Obs.] 

VALLAR:  Of or pertaining to a rampart. Vallar crown (Rom. Antiq.), a circular gold crown with palisades, bestowed upon the soldier who first surmounted the rampart and broke into the enemy's camp. 

VALLAR:  A vallar crown. 

VALLARY:  Same as Vallar. 

VALLATION:  A rampart or intrenchment. 

VALLATORY:  Of or pertaining to a vallation; used for a vallation; as, vallatory reads. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

VALLECULA:  A groove; a fossa; as, the vallecula, or fossa, which separates the hemispheres of the cerebellum.  2. (Bot.)  One of the grooves, or hollows, between the ribs of the fruit of umbelliferous plants.  VALLET'S PILLS Val`let's pills". Etym: [From Dr. Vallet of Paris.] (Med.)  Pills containing sulphate of iron and carbonate of sodium, mixed with saccharine matter; -- called also Vallet's mass. 

VALLUM:  A rampart; a wall, as in a fortification. 

VALONIA:  A genus of marine green algæ, in which the whole frond consists of a single oval or cylindrical cell, often an inch in length. 

VALORIZATION:  Act or process of attempting to give an arbitrary market value or price to a commodity by governmental interference, as by maintaining a purchasing fund, making loans to producers to enable them to hold their products, etc.; -- used chiefly of such action by Brazil. 

VALOROUS:  Possessing or exhibiting valor; brave; courageous; valiant; intrepid.  -- Val"or*ous*ly, adv. 

VALSALVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Valsalva, an Italian anatomist of the 17th century. Valsalvian experiment (Med.), the process of inflating the middle ear by closing the mouth and nostrils, and blowing so as to puff out the cheeks. 

VALUABLE:  A precious possession; a thing of value, especially a small thing, as an article of jewelry; -- used mostly in the plural. The food and valuables they offer to the gods. Tylor. 

VALUABLENESS:  The quality of being valuable. 

VALUABLY:  So as to be of value. 

VALUATOR:  One who assesses, or sets a value on, anything; an appraiser. Swift. 

VALUE:  Worth estimated by any standard of purchasing power, especially by the market price, or the amount of money agreed upon as an equivalent to the utility and cost of anything. An article may be possessed of the highest degree of utility, or power to minister to our wants and enjoyments, and may be universally made use of, without possessing exchangeable value. M'Culloch. Value is the power to command commodities generally. A. L. Chapin (Johnson's Cys.). Value is the generic term which expresses power in exchange. F. A. Walker. His design was not to pay him the value of his pictures, because they were above any price. Dryden.  Note: In political economy, value is often distinguished as intrinsic and exchangeable. Intrinsic value is the same as utility or adaptation to satisfy the desires or wants of men. Exchangeable value is that in an article or product which disposes individuals to give for it some quantity of labor, or some other article or product obtainable by labor; as, pure air has an intrinsic value, but generally not an exchangeable value.  3. Precise signification; import; as, the value of a word; the value of a legal instrument Mitford.  4. Esteem; regard. Dryden. My relation to the person was so near, and my value for him so great Bp. Burnet.  5. (Mus.)  The relative length or duration of a tone or note, answering to quantity in prosody; thus, a quarter note [value of two eighth notes [  6. In an artistical composition, the character of any one part in its relation to other parts and to the whole; -- often used in the plural; as, the values are well given, or well maintained.  7. Valor. [Written also valew.] [Obs.] Spenser. Value received, a phrase usually employed in a bill of exchange or a promissory note, to denote that a consideration has been given for it. Bouvier. 

VALUED:  Highly regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; a valued friend. Valued policy. See under Policy.  VALUED POLICY Val"ued pol"i*cy. (Fire Insurance)  A policy in which the value of the goods, property, or interest insured is specified; -- opposed to open policy.  VALUED-POLICY LAW Valued-policy law. (Fire Insurance)  A law requiring insurance companies to pay to the insured, in case of total loss, the full amount of the insurance, regardless of the actual value of the property at the time of the loss. 

VALUELESS:  Being of no value; having no worth. 

VALUER:  One who values; an appraiser. 

VALURE:  Value. [Obs.] Ld. Berners.  VALVAL; VALVAR Valv"al, Valv"ar, a. (Biol.)  Valvular. 

VALVASOR:  See Vavasor. 

VALVATA:  A genus of small spiral fresh-water gastropods having an operculum. 

VALVE:  One or more membranous partitions, flaps, or folds, which permit the passage of the contents of a vessel or cavity in one direction, but stop or retard the flow in the opposite direction; as, the ileocolic, mitral, and semilunar valves.  4. (Bot.) (a) One of the pieces into which a capsule naturally separates when it bursts. (b) One of the two similar portions of the shell of a diatom. (c) A small portion of certain anthers, which opens like a trapdoor to allow the pollen to escape, as in the barberry.  5. (Zoöl.)  One of the pieces or divisions of bivalve or multivalve shells. Air valve, Ball valve, Check valve, etc. See under Air. Ball, Check, etc.  -- Double-beat valve, a kind of balance valve usually consisting of a movable, open-ended, turban-shaped shell provided with two faces of nearly equal diameters, one above another, which rest upon two corresponding seats when the valve is closed.  -- Equilibrium valve. (a) A balance valve. See under Balance. (b) A valve for permitting air, steam, water, etc., to pass into or out of a chamber so as to establish or maintain equal pressure within and without.  -- Valve chest (Mach.), a chamber in which a valve works; especially (Steam Engine), the steam chest; -- called in England valve box, and valve casing. See Steam chest, under Steam.  -- Valve face (Mach.), that part of the surface of a valve which comes in contact with the valve seat.  -- Valve gear, or Valve motion (Steam Engine), the system of parts by which motion is given to the valve or valves for the distribution of steam in the cylinder. For an illustration of one form of valve gear, see Link motion.  -- Valve seat. (Mach.) (a) The fixed surface on which a valve rests or against which it presses. (b) A part or piece on which such a surface is formed.  -- Valve stem (Mach.), a rod attached to a valve, for moving it.  -- Valve yoke (Mach.), a strap embracing a slide valve and connecting it to the valve stem. 

VALVED:  Having a valve or valve; valvate. 

VALVELET:  A little valve; a valvule; especially, one of the pieces which compose the outer covering of a pericarp.  VALVE-SHELL Valve"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any fresh-water gastropod of the genus Valvata. 

VALVULA:  A little valve or fold; a valvelet; a valvule. 

VALVULE:  A small valvelike process. 

VALYLENE:  A volatile liquid hydrocarbon, C5H6, related to ethylene and acetylene, but possessing the property of unsaturation in the third degree. It is the only known member of a distinct series of compounds. It has a garlic odor. 

VAMBRACE:  The piece designed to protect the arm from the elbow to the wrist. 

VAMOSE:  To depart quickly; to depart from. [Written also vamos, and vamoose.] [Slang, Eng. & U. S.] 

VAMP:  To advance; to travel. [Obs.] 

VAMP:  To provide, as a shoe, with new upper leather; hence, to piece, as any old thing, with a new part; to repair; to patch; -- often followed by up. I had never much hopes of your vamped play. Swift. 

VAMPER:  One who vamps; one who pieces an old thing with something new; a cobbler. 

VAMPER:  To swagger; to make an ostentatious show. [Prov. eng. & Scot.] Jamieson. 

VAMPIRE:  Either one of two or more species of South American blood- sucking bats belonging to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. These bats are destitute of molar teeth, but have strong, sharp cutting incisors with which they make punctured wounds from which they suck the blood of horses, cattle, and other animals, as well as man, chiefly during sleep. They have a cæcal appendage to the stomach, in which the blood with which they gorge themselves is stored.  4. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of harmless tropical American bats of the genus Vampyrus, especially V. spectrum. These bats feed upon insects and fruit, but were formerly erroneously supposed to suck the blood of man and animals. Called also false vampire. Vampire bat (Zoöl.), a vampire, 3. 

VAMPLATE:  A round of iron on the shaft of a tilting spear, to protect the hand. [Written also vamplet.] 

VAMURE:  See Vauntmure. [Obs.] 

VAN:  The front of an army; the first line or leading column; also, the front line or foremost division of a fleet, either in sailing or in battle. Standards and gonfalons, twixt van and rear, Stream in the air. Milton. 

VAN:  A shovel used in cleansing ore. 

VAN:  To wash or cleanse, as a small portion of ore, on a shovel. Raymond. 

VAN:  A wing with which the air is beaten. [Archaic] "[/Angels] on the air plumy vans received him. " Milton. He wheeled in air, and stretched his vans in vain; His vans no longer could his flight sustain. Dryden. 

VAN:  To fan, or to cleanse by fanning; to winnow. [Obs.] Bacon. 

VANADATE:  A salt of vanadic acid. [Formerly also vanadiate.] 

VANADIC:  Pertaining to, or obtained from, vanadium; containing vanadium; specifically distinguished those compounds in which vanadium has a relatively higher valence as contrasted with the vanadious compounds; as, vanadic oxide. Vanadic acid (Chem.), an acid analogous to phosphoric acid, not known in the free state but forming a well-known series of salts. 

VANADINITE:  A mineral occurring in yellowish, and ruby-red hexagonal crystals. It consist of lead vanadate with a small proportion of lead chloride. 

VANADIOUS:  Pertaining to, or containing, vanadium; specifically, designating those compounds in which vanadium has a lower valence as contrasted with the vanadic compounds; as, vanadious acid. [Sometimes written also vanadous.] 

VANADITE:  A salt of vanadious acid, analogous to a nitrite or a phosphite. 

VANADIUM:  A rare element of the nitrogen-phosphorus group, found combined, in vanadates, in certain minerals, and reduced as an infusible, grayish-white metallic powder. It is intermediate between the metals and the non-metals, having both basic and acid properties. Sumbol V (or Vd, rarely). Atomic weight 51.2.  VANADIUM BRONZE Va*na"di*um bronze`. (Chem.)  A yellow pigment consisting of a compound of vanadium. 

VANADOUS:  Of or pertaining to vanadium; obtained from vanadium; -- said of an acid containing one equivalent of vanadium and two of oxygen. 

VANADYL:  The hypothetical radical VO, regarded as a characterized residue of certain vanadium compounds.  VAN-COURIER Van"-cou`ri*er, n. Etym: [F. avant-courrier.See Avant, Van of an army, and Courier, and cf. Avant-courier, Vaunt-courier.]  One sent in advance; an avant-courier; a precursor. 

VANDAL:  One of a Teutonic race, formerly dwelling on the south shore of the Baltic, the most barbarous and fierce of the northern nations that plundered Rome in the 5th century, notorious for destroying the monuments of art and literature.  2. Hence, one who willfully destroys or defaces any work of art or literature. The Vandals of our isle, Sworn foes to sense and law. Cowper.  VANDAL; VANDALIC Van"dal, Van*dal"ic, a.  Of or pertaining to the Vandals; resembling the Vandals in barbarism and destructiveness. 

VANDALISM:  The spirit or conduct of the Vandals; ferocious cruelty; hostility to the arts and literature, or willful destruction or defacement of their monuments. 

VANDYKE:  Of or pertaining to the style of Vandyke the painter; used or represented by Vandyke. "His Vandyke dress." Macaulay. [Written also Vandyck.] Vandyke brown (Paint.), a pigment of a deep semitranssparent brown color, supposed to be the color used by Vandyke in his pictures.  -- Vandyke collar or cape, a broad collar or cape of linen and lace with a deep pointed or scalloped edge, worn lying on the shoulders; - - so called from its appearance in pictures by Vandyke.  -- Vandyke edge, an edge having ornamental triangular points. 

VANDYKE:  A picture by Vandyke. Also, a Vandyke collar, or a Vandyke edge. [Written also Vandyck.] 

VANDYKE:  fit or furnish with a Vandyke; to form with points or scallops like a Vandyke. [R.] [Written also Vandyck.]  VANDYKE BEARD Van*dyke" beard`.  A trim, pointed beard, such as those often seen in pictures by Vandyke. 

VANE:  The rhachis and web of a feather taken together.  4. One of the sights of a compass, quadrant, etc. Vane of a leveling staff. (Surv.) Same as Target, 3. 

VANESSA:  Any one of numerous species of handsomely colored butterflies belonging to Vanessa and allied genera. Many of these species have the edges of the wings irregularly scalloped. 

VANESSIAN:  A vanessa. 

VANFESS:  A ditch on the outside of the counterscarp, usually full of water. 

VANG:  A rope to steady the peak of a gaff. 

VANGLO:  Benne (Sesamum orientale); also, its seeds; -- so called in the West Indies. 

VANGUARD:  The troops who march in front of an army; the advance guard; the van. 

VANILLA:  A genus of climbing orchidaceous plants natives of tropical America.  2. The long podlike capsules of Vanilla planifolia, and V. claviculata, remarkable for their delicate and agreeable odor, for the volatile, odoriferous oil extracted from them; also, the flavoring extract made from the capsules, extensively used in confectionery, perfumery, etc.  Note: As a medicine, vanilla is supposed to possess powers analogous to valerian, while, at the same time, it is far more grateful. Cuban vanilla, a sweet-scented West Indian composite shrub (Eupatorium Dalea).  -- Vanilla bean, the long capsule of the vanilla plant.  -- Vanilla grass. Same as Holy grass, under Holy. 

VANILLATE:  A salt of vanillic acid. 

VANILLIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, vanilla or vanillin; resembling vanillin; specifically, designating an alcohol and an acid respectively, vanillin being the intermediate aldehyde. 

VANILLIN:  A white crystalline aldehyde having a burning taste and characteristic odor of vanilla. It is extracted from vanilla pods, and is also obtained by the decomposition of coniferin, and by the oxidation of eugenol. 

VANILLOES:  An inferior kind of vanilla, the pods of Vanilla Pompona. 

VANILLYL:  The hypothetical radical characteristic of vanillic alcohol. 

VANILOQUENCE:  Vain or foolish talk. [Obs.] 

VANISH:  The brief terminal part of vowel or vocal element, differing more or less in quality from the main part; as, a as in ale ordinarily ends with a vanish of i as in ill, o as in old with a vanish of oo as in foot. Rush.  Note: The vanish is included by Mr. Bell under the general term glide. 

VANISHING:  a. & n. from Vanish, v. Vanishing fraction (Math.), a fraction which reduces to the form Math. Dict.  -- Vanishing line (Persp.), the intersection of the parallel of any original plane and picture; one of the lines converging to the vanishing point.  -- Vanishing point (Persp.), the point to which all parallel lines in the same plane tend in the representation. Gwilt.  -- Vanishing stress (Phon.), stress of voice upon the closing portion of a syllable. Rush. 

VANISHMENT:  A vanishing. [Obs.] 

VANITY:  A small box, usually jeweled or of precious metal and worn on a chain, containing a mirror, powder puff, and other small toilet articles for a woman. 

VANJAS:  The Australian pied crow shrike (Strepera graculina). It is glossy bluish black, with the under tail coverts and the tips and bases of the tail feathers white. 

VANNER:  A machine for concentrating ore. See Frue vanner.  VANNER HAWK Van"ner hawk`.  The kestrel. [Prov. Eng.] 

VANNING:  A process by which ores are washed on a shovel, or in a vanner. 

VANQUISH:  A disease in sheep, in which they pine away. [Written also vinquish.] 

VANQUISHABLE:  That may be vanquished. 

VANQUISHER:  One who, or that which, vanquishes. Milton. 

VANQUISHMENT:  The act of vanquishing, or the state of being vanquished. Bp. Hall. 

VANSIRE:  An ichneumon (Herpestes galera) native of Southern Africa and Madagascar. It is reddish brown or dark brown, grizzled with white. Called also vondsira, and marsh ichneumon. 

VANT:  See Vaunt. [Obs.] 

VANTAGE:  The first point after deuce.  Note: When the server wins this point, it is called vantage in; when the receiver, or striker out, wins, it is called vantage out. To have at vantage, to have the advantage of; to be in a more favorable condition than. "He had them at vantage, being tired and harassed with a long march." Bacon.  -- Vantage ground, superiority of state or place; the place or condition which gives one an advantage over another. "The vantage ground of truth. Bacon. It is these things that give him his actual standing, and it is from this vantage ground that he looks around him. I. Taylor. 

VANTAGE:  To profit; to aid. [Obs.] Spenser.  VANTAGE GAME Van"tage game. (Lawn Tennis)  The first game after the set is deuce. See Set, n., 9.  VANTAGE POINT Vantage point.  A point giving advantage; vantage ground.  VANTBRACE; VANTBRASS Vant"brace, Vant"brass, n. Etym: [F. avant fore + bras arm: cf. F. brassard armor for the arm, brace, forearm. Cf. Vambrace.] (Anc. Armor)  Armor for the arm; vambrace. Milton.  VANT-COURIER Vant"-cou`ri*er, n.  An avant-courier. See Van-courier. [Obs.] Holland.  VAN'T HOFF'S LAW Van't Hoff's law. [After J.H. van't Hoff, Dutch physical chemist.] (Phys. Chem.)  The generalization that: when a system is in equilibrium, of the two opposed interactions the endothermic is promoted by raising the temperature, the exothermic by lowering it. 

VANWARD:  Being on, or towards, the van, or front. "The vanward frontier." De Quincey. 

VAP:  That which is vapid, insipid, or lifeless; especially, the lifeless part of liquor or wine. [Obs.] In vain it is to wash a goblet, if you mean to put it nothing but the dead lees and vap of wine. Jer. Taylor. 

VAPID:  Having lost its life and spirit; dead; spiritless; insipid; flat; dull; unanimated; as, vapid beer; a vapid speech; a vapid state of the blood. A cheap, bloodless reformation, a guiltless liberty, appear flat and vapid to their taste. Burke. -- Vap"id*ly, adv.  -- Vap"id*ness, n. 

VAPIDITY:  The quality or state of being vapid; vapidness. 

VAPOR:  Any substance in the gaseous, or aëriform, state, the condition of which is ordinarily that of a liquid or solid.  Note: The term vapor is sometimes used in a more extended sense, as identical with gas; and the difference between the two is not so much one of kind as of degree, the latter being applied to all permanently elastic fluids except atmospheric air, the former to those elastic fluids which lose that condition at ordinary temperatures. The atmosphere contains more or less vapor of water, a portion of which, on a reduction of temperature, becomes condensed into liquid water in the form of rain or dew. The vapor of water produced by boiling, especially in its economic relations, is called steam. Vapor is any substance in the gaseous condition at the maximum of density consistent with that condition. This is the strict and proper meaning of the word vapor. Nichol.  2. In a loose and popular sense, any visible diffused substance floating in the atmosphere and impairing its transparency, as smoke, fog, etc. The vapour which that fro the earth glood [glided]. Chaucer. Fire and hail; snow and vapors; stormy wind fulfilling his word. Ps. cxlviii. 8.  3. Wind; flatulence. [Obs.] Bacon.  4. Something unsubstantial, fleeting, or transitory; unreal fancy; vain imagination; idle talk; boasting. For what is your life It is even a vapor, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away. James iv. 14.  5. pl.  An old name for hypochondria, or melancholy; the blues. "A fit of vapors." Pope.  6. (Pharm.)  A medicinal agent designed for administration in the form of inhaled vapor. Brit. Pharm. Vapor bath. (a) A bath in vapor; the application of vapor to the body, or part of it, in a close place; also, the place itself. (b) (Chem.) A small metallic drying oven, usually of copper, for drying and heating filter papers, precipitates, etc.; -- called also air bath. A modified form is provided with a jacket in the outside partition for holding water, or other volatile liquid, by which the temperature may be limited exactly to the required degree.  -- Vapor burner, a burner for burning a vaporized hydrocarbon.  -- Vapor density (Chem.), the relative weight of gases and vapors as compared with some specific standard, usually hydrogen, but sometimes air. The vapor density of gases and vaporizable substances as compared with hydrogen, when multiplied by two, or when compared with air and multiplied by 28.8, gives the molecular weight.  -- Vapor engine, an engine worked by the expansive force of a vapor, esp. a vapor other than steam. 

VAPOR:  To send off in vapor, or as if in vapor; as, to vapor away a heated fluid. [Written also vapour.] He'd laugh to see one throw his heart away, Another, sighing, vapor forth his soul. B. Jonson. 

VAPORABILITY:  The quality or state of being vaporable. 

VAPORABLE:  Capable of being converted into vapor by the agency of heat; vaporizable. 

VAPORATE:  To emit vapor; to evaporate. [R.] 

VAPORATION:  The act or process of converting into vapor, or of passing off in vapor; evaporation. [R.] 

VAPORER:  One who vapors; a braggart. Vaporer moth. (Zoöl.) See Orgyia.  VAPOR GALVANIZING Va"por gal"va*niz`ing. (Metal.)  A process for coating metal (usually iron or steel) surfaces with zinc by exposing them to the vapor of zinc instead of, as in ordinary galvanizing, to molten zinc; -- called also Sherardizing. Vapor galvanizing is accomplished by heating the articles to be galvanized together with zinc dust in an air tight receptacle to a temperature of about 600º F., which is 188º below the melting point of zinc, or by exposing the articles to vapor from molten zinc in a separate receptacle, using hydrogen or other reducing gas to prevent oxidation. 

VAPORIFEROUS:  Conveying or producing vapor. 

VAPORIFIC:  Producing vapor; tending to pass, or to cause to pass, into vapor; thus, volatile fluids are vaporific; heat is a vaporific agent. 

VAPORIFORM:  Existing in a vaporous form or state; as, steam is a vaporiform substance. 

VAPORIMETER:  An instrument for measuring the volume or the tension of any vapor; specifically, an instrument of this sort used as an alcoholometer in testing spirituous liquors. 

VAPORING:  Talking idly; boasting; vaunting.  -- Va"por*ing*ly, adv. 

VAPORIZABLE:  Capable of being vaporized into vapor. 

VAPORIZATION:  The act or process of vaporizing, or the state of being converted into vapor; the artificial formation of vapor; specifically, the conversion of water into steam, as in a steam boiler. 

VAPORIZE:  To convert into vapor, as by the application of heat, whether naturally or artificially. Vaporizing surface. (Steam Boilers) See Evaporating surface, under Evaporate, v. t. 

VAPORIZE:  To pass off in vapor. 

VAPORIZER:  One who, or that which, vaporizes, or converts into vapor. 

VAPOROSE:  Full of vapor; vaporous. 

VAPOROUSNESS:  The quality of being vaporous.  VAPOR PRESSURE; VAPOR TENSION Vapor pressure or tension . (Physics)  The pressure or tension of a confined body of vapor. The pressure of a given saturated vapor is a function of the temperature only, and may be measured by introducing a small quantity of the substance into a barometer and noting the depression of the column of mercury. 

VAPULATION:  The act of beating or whipping. [Obs.] 

VAQUERO:  One who has charge of cattle, horses, etc.; a herdsman. [Southwestern U. S.] 

VARA:  A Spanish measure of length equal to about one yard. The vara now in use equals 33.385 inches. Johnson's Cyc. 

VARAN:  The monitor. See Monitor, 3. 

VARANGIAN:  One of the Northmen who founded a dynasty in Russia in the 9th century; also, one of the Northmen composing, at a later date, the imperial bodyguard at Constantinople. 

VARANUS:  A genus of very large lizards native of Asia and Africa. It includes the monitors. See Monitor, 3. 

VARE:  A wand or staff of authority or justice. [Obs.] His hand a vare of justice did uphold. Dryden. 

VARE:  A weasel. [Prov. Eng.] Vare widgeon (Zoöl.), a female or young male of the smew; a weasel duck; -- so called from the resemblance of the head to that of a vare, or weasel. [Prov. Eng.] 

VAREC:  The calcined ashes of any coarse seaweed used for the manufacture of soda and iodine; also, the seaweed itself; fucus; wrack. 

VARGUENO:  A decorative cabinet, of a form originating in Spain, the body being rectangular and supported on legs or an ornamental framework and the front opening downwards on hinges to serve as a writing desk. 

VARI:  The ringtailed lemur (Lemur catta) of Madagascar. Its long tail is annulated with black and white. 

VARIABILITY:  The power possessed by living organisms, both animal and vegetable, of adapting themselves to modifications or changes in their environment, thus possibly giving rise to ultimate variation of structure or function. 

VARIABLE:  A quantity which may increase or decrease; a quantity which admits of an infinite number of values in the same expression; a variable quantity; as, in the equation x2 - y2 = R2, x and y are variables.  3. (Naut.) (a) A shifting wind, or one that varies in force. (b) pl.  Those parts of the sea where a steady wind is not expected, especially the parts between the trade-wind belts. Independent variable (Math.), that one of two or more variables, connected with each other in any way whatever, to which changes are supposed to be given at will. Thus, in the equation x2 - y2 = R2, if arbitrary changes are supposed to be given to x, then x is the independent variable, and y is called a function of x. There may be two or more independent variables in an equation or problem. Cf. Dependent variable, under Dependent. 

VARIABLENESS:  The quality or state of being variable; variability. James i. 17. 

VARIABLY:  In a variable manner. 

VARIANCE:  A disagreement or difference between two parts of the same legal proceeding, which, to be effectual, ought to agree, -- as between the writ and the declaration, or between the allegation and the proof. Bouvier. A variance, in disagreement; in a state of dissension or controversy; at enmity. "What cause brought him so soon at variance with himself" Milton. 

VARIANT:  Something which differs in form from another thing, though really the same; as, a variant from a type in natural history; a variant of a story or a word. 

VARIATE:  To alter; to make different; to vary. 

VARIATION:  Change of termination of words, as in declension, conjugation, derivation, etc.  4. (Mus.)  Repetition of a theme or melody with fanciful embellishments or modifications, in time, tune, or harmony, or sometimes change of key; the presentation of a musical thought in new and varied aspects, yet so that the essential features of the original shall still preserve their identity.  5. (Alg.)  One of the different arrangements which can be made of any number of quantities taking a certain number of them together. Annual variation (Astron.), the yearly change in the right ascension or declination of a star, produced by the combined effects of the precession of the equinoxes and the proper motion of the star.  -- Calculus of variations. See under Calculus.  -- Variation compass. See under Compass.  -- Variation of the moon (Astron.), an inequality of the moon's motion, depending on the angular distance of the moon from the sun. It is greater at the octants, and zero at the quadratures.  -- Variation of the needle (Geog. & Naut.), the angle included between the true and magnetic meridians of a place; the deviation of the direction of a magnetic needle from the true north and south line; -- called also declination of the needle.  Syn.  -- Change; vicissitude; variety; deviation. 

VARICELLA:  Chicken pox. 

VARICES:  See Varix. 

VARICIFORM:  Resembling a varix. 

VARICOCELE:  A varicose enlargement of the veins of the spermatic cord; also, a like enlargement of the veins of the scrotum. 

VARICOSE:  Intended for the treatment of varicose veins; -- said of elastic stockings, bandages. and the like. 

VARICOSIS:  The formation of varices; varicosity. 

VARICOTOMY:  Excision of a varicosity. 

VARICOUS:  Varicose. [Obs.] 

VARIED:  Changed; altered; various; diversified; as, a varied experience; varied interests; varied scenery.  -- Va"ried*ly, adv. The varied fields of science, ever new. Cowper. 

VARIEGATE:  To diversify in external appearance; to mark with different colors; to dapple; to streak; as, to variegate a floor with marble of different colors. The shells are filled with a white spar, which variegates and adds to the beauty of the stone. Woodward. 

VARIEGATED:  Having marks or patches of different colors; as, variegated leaves, or flowers. Ladies like variegated tulips show. Pope. 

VARIEGATION:  The act of variegating or diversifying, or the state of being diversified, by different colors; diversity of colors. 

VARIER:  A wanderer; one who strays in search of variety. [Poetic] Pious variers from the church. Tennyson. 

VARIETAL:  Of or pertaining to a variety; characterizing a variety; constituting a variety, in distinction from an individual or species. Perplexed in determining what differences to consider as specific, and what as varietal. Darwin. 

VARIETAS:  A variety; -- used in giving scientific names, and often abbreviated to var. 

VARIETY:  A stage entertainment of successive separate performances, usually songs, dances, acrobatic feats, dramatic sketches, exhibitions of trained animals, or any specialties. Often loosely called vaudeville show. 

VARIFORM:  Having different shapes or forms. 

VARIFORMED:  Formed with different shapes; having various forms; variform. 

VARIFY:  To make different; to vary; to variegate. [R.] Sylvester. 

VARIOLA:  The smallpox. 

VARIOLAR:  Variolous. 

VARIOLATION:  Inoculation with smallpox. 

VARIOLIC:  Variolous. 

VARIOLITE:  A kind of diorite or diabase containing imbedded whitish spherules, which give the rock a spotted appearance. 

VARIOLITIC:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, variolite. 

VARIOLOID:  Resembling smallpox; pertaining to the disease called varioloid. 

VARIOLOID:  The smallpox as modified by previous inoculation or vaccination.  Note: It is almost always a milder disease than smallpox, and this circumstance, with its shorter duration, exhibits the salutary effects of previous vaccination or inoculation. Dunglison. 

VARIOLOUS:  Of or pertaining to the smallpox; having pits, or sunken impressions, like those of the smallpox; variolar; variolic. 

VARIOMETER:  An instrument for comparing magnetic forces, esp. in the earth's magnetic field. 

VARIORUM:  Containing notes by different persons; -- applied to a publication; as, a variorum edition of a book. 

VARIOUSLY:  In various or different ways. 

VARISCITE:  An apple-green mineral occurring in reniform masses. It is a hydrous phosphate of alumina. 

VARISSE:  An imperfection on the inside of the hind leg in horses, different from a curb, but at the same height, and frequently injuring the sale of the animal by growing to an unsightly size. Craig. 

VARIX:  A uneven, permanent dilatation of a vein.  Note: Varices are owing to local retardation of the venous circulation, and in some cases to relaxation of the parietes of the veins. They are very common in the superficial veins of the lower limbs. Dunglison.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the prominent ridges or ribs extending across each of the whorls of certain univalve shells.  Note: The varices usually indicate stages of growth, each one showing a former position of the outer lip of the aperture. 

VARK:  The bush hog, or boshvark. 

VARLETRY:  The rabble; the crowd; the mob. Shall they hoist me up, And show me to the shouting varletry Of censuring Rome. Shak. 

VARNISHING:  The act of laying on varnish; also, materials for varnish. 

VARSITY:  Colloq. contr. of University. 

VARTABED:  A doctor or teacher in the Armenian church. Members of this order of ecclesiastics frequently have charge of dioceses, with episcopal functions. 

VARUNA:  The god of the waters; the Indian Neptune. He is regarded as regent of the west, and lord of punishment, and is represented as riding on a sea monster, holding in his hand a snaky cord or noose with which to bind offenders, under water. 

VARUS:  A deformity in which the foot is turned inward. See Talipes. 

VARVEL:  In falconry, one of the rings secured to the ends of the jesses. [Written also vervel.] 

VARVELED:  Having varvels, or rings. [Written also varvelled, and vervelled.]  Note: In heraldry, when the jesses attached to the legs of hawks hang loose, or have pendent ends with rings at the tips, the blazon is a hawk (or a hawk's leg) jessed and varveled. 

VARY:  To embellish; to change fancifully; to present under new aspects, as of form, key, measure, etc. See Variation, 4. 

VARY:  Alteration; change. [Obs.] Shak. 

VARYING:  a. & n. from Vary. Varying hare (Zoöl.), any hare or rabbit which becomes white in winter, especially the common hare of the Northern United States and Canada. 

VAS:  A vessel; a duct. Vas deferens; pl. Vasa deferentia. Etym: [L. vas vessel + deferens carrying down.] (Anat.) The excretory duct of a testicle; a spermatic duct. 

VASCULAR:  Of or pertaining to the higher division of plants, that is, the phænogamous plants, all of which are vascular, in distinction from the cryptogams, which to a large extent are cellular only. Vascular plants (Bot.), plants composed in part of vascular tissue, as all flowering plants and the higher cryptogamous plants, or those of the class Pteridophyta. Cf. Cellular plants, Cellular.  -- Vascular system (Bot.), the body of associated ducts and woody fiber; the fibrovascular part of plants.  -- Vascular tissue (Bot.), vegetable tissue composed partly of ducts, or sap tubes.  -- Water vascular system (Zoöl.), a system of vessels in annelids, nemerteans, and many other invertebrates, containing a circulating fluid analogous to blood, but not of the same composition. In annelids the fluid which they contain is usually red, but in some it is green, in others yellow, or whitish. 

VASCULARITY:  The quality or state of being vascular. 

VASCULOSE:  One of the substances of which vegetable tissue is composed, differing from cellulose in its solubility in certain media. 

VASCULUM:  Same as Ascidium, n., 1.  2. A tin box, commonly cylindrical or flattened, used in collecting plants. 

VASE:  The calyx of a plant.  VASE CLOCK Vase clock. (Art)  A clock whose decorative case has the general form of a vase, esp. one in which there is no ordinary dial, but in which a part of a vase revolves while a single stationary indicator serves as a hand. 

VASECTOMY:  Resection or excision of the vas deferens. 

VASELINE:  A yellowish translucent substance, almost odorless and tasteless, obtained as a residue in the purification of crude petroleum, and consisting essentially of a mixture of several of the higher members of the paraffin series. It is used as an unguent, and for various purposes in the arts. See the Note under Petrolatum. [Written also vaselin.]  VASE-SHAPED Vase"-shaped`, a.  Formed like a vase, or like a common flowerpot. 

VASIFORM:  Having the form of a vessel, or duct. Vasiform tissue (Bot.), tissue containing vessels, or ducts. 

VASOCONSTRICTOR:  Causing constriction of the blood vessels; as, the vasoconstrictor nerves, stimulation of which causes constriction of the blood vessels to which they go. These nerves are also called vasohypertonic. n.  A substance which causes constriction of the blood vessels. Such substances are used in medicine to raise blood pressure. 

VASODENTINE:  A modified form of dentine, which is permeated by blood capillaries; vascular dentine. 

VASODILATOR:  Causing dilation or relaxation of the blood vessels; as, the vasodilator nerves, stimulation of which causes dilation of the blood vessels to which they go. These nerves are also called vaso- inhibitory, and vasohypotonic nerves, since their stimulation causes relaxation and rest. 

VASOFORMATIVE:  Concerned in the development and formation of blood vessels and blood corpuscles; as, the vasoformative cells.  VASO-INHIBITORY Vas`o-in*hib"i*to*ry, a. (Physiol.)  See Vasodilator. 

VASOMOTOR:  Causing movement in the walls of vessels; as, the vasomotor mechanisms; the vasomotor nerves, a system of nerves distributed over the muscular coats of the blood vessels. Vasomotor center, the chief dominating or general center which supplies all the unstriped muscles of the arterial system with motor nerves, situated in a part of the medulla oblongata; a center of reflex action by the working of which afferent impulses are changed into efferent, -- vasomotor impulses leading either to dilation or constriction of the blood vessels. 

VASSAL:  The grantee of a fief, feud, or fee; one who holds land of superior, and who vows fidelity and homage to him; a feudatory; a feudal tenant. Burrill.  2. A subject; a dependent; a servant; a slave. "The vassals of his anger." Milton. Rear vassal, the vassal of a vassal; an arriere vassal. 

VASSAL:  Resembling a vassal; slavish; servile. The sun and every vassal star. Keble. 

VASSAL:  To treat as a vassal; to subject to control; to enslave. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

VASSALESS:  A female vassal. [R.] Spenser. 

VASSALRY:  The body of vassals. [R.] 

VAST:  A waste region; boundless space; immensity. "The watery vast." Pope. Michael bid sound The archangel trumpet. Through the vast of heaven It sounded. Milton. 

VASTATION:  A laying waste; waste; depopulation; devastation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

VASTEL:  See Wastel. [Obs.] Fuller. 

VASTIDITY:  Vastness; immensity. [Obs.] "All the world's vastidity." Shak. 

VASTITY:  Vastness. [Obs.] The huge vastity of the world. Holland. 

VASTLY:  To a vast extent or degree; very greatly; immensely. Jer. Taylor. 

VASTNESS:  The quality or state of being vast. 

VASTY:  Vast; immense. [R.] I can call spirits from the vasty deep. Shak. 

VASUM:  A genus including several species of large marine gastropods having massive pyriform shells, with conspicuous folds on the columella. 

VAT:  A vessel for holding holy water. 

VAT:  To put or transfer into a vat. 

VATFUL:  As much as a vat will hold; enough to fill a vat. 

VATICAL:  Of or pertaining to a prophet; prophetical. Bp. Hall. 

VATICAN:  A magnificent assemblage of buildings at Rome, near the church of St. Peter, including the pope's palace, a museum, a library, a famous chapel, etc.  Note: The word is often used to indicate the papal authority. Thunders of the Vatican, the anathemas, or denunciations, of the pope.  VATICAN COUNCIL Vat"i*can Coun"cil. (R. C. Ch.)  The council held under Pope Pius IX. in Vatican at Rome, in 1870, which promulgated the dogma of papal infallibility. 

VATICANISM:  The doctrine of papal supremacy; extreme views in support of the authority of the pope; ultramontanism; -- a term used only by persons who are not Roman Catholics. 

VATICANIST:  One who strongly adheres to the papal authority; an ultramontanist. 

VATICIDE:  The murder, or the murderer, of a prophet. "The caitiff vaticide." Pope. 

VATICINAL:  Of or pertaining to prophecy; prophetic. T. Warton. 

VATICINATE:  To prophesy; to foretell; to practice prediction; to utter prophecies. 

VATICINATION:  Prediction; prophecy. It is not a false utterance; it is a true, though an impetuous, vaticination. I. Taylor. 

VATICINATOR:  One who vaticinates; a prophet. 

VATICINE:  A prediction; a vaticination. [Obs.] Holinshed. 

VAUDOUX:  See Voodoo. 

VAULT:  An arched structure of masonry, forming a ceiling or canopy. The long-drawn aisle and fretted vault. Gray.  2. An arched apartment; especially, a subterranean room, use for storing articles, for a prison, for interment, or the like; a cell; a cellar. "Charnel vaults." Milton. The silent vaults of death. Sandys. To banish rats that haunt our vault. Swift.  3. The canopy of heaven; the sky. That heaven's vault should crack. Shak.  4. Etym: [F. volte, It. volta, originally, a turn, and the same word as volta an arch. See the Etymology above.]  A leap or bound. Specifically: -- (a) (Man.) The bound or leap of a horse; a curvet. (b) A leap by aid of the hands, or of a pole, springboard, or the like.  Note: The l in this word was formerly often suppressed in pronunciation. Barrel, Cradle, Cylindrical, or Wagon, vault (Arch.), a kind of vault having two parallel abutments, and the same section or profile at all points. It may be rampant, as over a staircase (see Rampant vault, under Rampant), or curved in plan, as around the apse of a church.  -- Coved vault. (Arch.) See under 1st Cove, v. t.  -- Groined vault (Arch.), a vault having groins, that is, one in which different cylindrical surfaces intersect one another, as distinguished from a barrel, or wagon, vault.  -- Rampant vault. (Arch.) See under Rampant.  -- Ribbed vault (Arch.), a vault differing from others in having solid ribs which bear the weight of the vaulted surface. True Gothic vaults are of this character.  -- Vault light, a partly glazed plate inserted in a pavement or ceiling to admit light to a vault below. 

VAULT:  To leap over; esp., to leap over by aid of the hands or a pole; as, to vault a fence. I will vault credit, and affect high pleasures. Webster (1623). 

VAULTAGE:  Vaulted work; also, a vaulted place; an arched cellar. [Obs.] Shak. 

VAULTED:  Arched like the roof of the mouth, as the upper lip of many ringent flowers. 

VAULTER:  One who vaults; a leaper; a tumbler. B. Jonson. 

VAULTY:  Arched; concave. [Obs.] "The vaulty heaven." Shak. 

VAUNCE:  To advance. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VAUNT:  To boast; to make a vain display of one's own worth, attainments, decorations, or the like; to talk ostentatiously; to brag. Pride, which prompts a man to vaunt and overvalue what he is, does incline him to disvalue what he has. Gov. of Tongue. 

VAUNT:  To boast of; to make a vain display of; to display with ostentation. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. 1 Cor. xiii. 4. My vanquisher, spoiled of his vaunted spoil. Milton. 

VAUNT:  A vain display of what one is, or has, or has done; ostentation from vanity; a boast; a brag. The spirits beneath, whom I seduced With other promises and other vaunts. Milton. 

VAUNT:  The first part. [Obs.] Shak. 

VAUNT:  To put forward; to display. [Obs.] "Vaunted spear." Spenser. And what so else his person most may vaunt. Spenser.  VAUNT-COURIER Vaunt"-cou`ri*er, n.  See Van-courier. [Obs.] Shak. 

VAUNTER:  One who vaunts; a boaster. 

VAUNTFUL:  Given to vaunting or boasting; vainly ostentatious; boastful; vainglorious. 

VAUNTINGLY:  In a vaunting manner. 

VAUNTMURE:  A false wall; a work raised in front of the main wall. [Written also vaimure, and vamure.] Camden. 

VAUQUELINITE:  Chromate of copper and lead, of various shades of green. 

VAUT:  To vault; to leap. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VAUT:  A vault; a leap. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VAUTY:  Vaulted. "The haughty vauty welkin." [Obs.] Taylor (1611). 

VAVASOR:  The vassal or tenant of a baron; one who held under a baron, and who also had tenants under him; one in dignity next to a baron; a title of dignity next to a baron. Burrill. "A worthy vavasour." Chaucer. [Also written vavasour, vavassor, valvasor, etc.] Vavasours subdivide again to vassals, exchanging land and cattle, human or otherwise, against fealty. Motley. 

VAVASORY:  The quality or tenure of the fee held by a vavasor; also, the lands held by a vavasor. 

VAWARD:  The fore part; van. [Obs.] Since we have the vaward of the day. Shak.  VAZA PARROT Va"za par`rot. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of parrots of the genus Coracopsis, native of Madagascar; -- called also vasa parrot. 

VEADAR:  The thirteenth, or intercalary, month of the Jewish ecclesiastical calendar, which is added about every third year. 

VEAL:  The flesh of a calf when killed and used for food. 

VECTION:  Vectitation. [Obs.] 

VECTITATION:  The act of carrying, or state of being carried. [Obs.] 

VECTOR:  A directed quantity, as a straight line, a force, or a velocity. Vectors are said to be equal when their directions are the same their magnitudes equal. Cf. Scalar.  Note: In a triangle, either side is the vector sum of the other two sides taken in proper order; the process finding the vector sum of two or more vectors is vector addition (see under Addition). 

VECTURE:  The act of carrying; conveyance; carriage. [Obs.] Bacon. 

VEDA:  The ancient sacred literature of the Hindoos; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda, constituting the most ancient portions of that literature.  Note: The language of the Vedas is usually called Vedic Sanskrit, as distinguished from the later and more settled form called classical Sanskrit. 

VEDANTA:  A system of philosophy among the Hindoos, founded on scattered texts of the Vedas, and thence termed the "Anta," or end or substance. Balfour (Cyc. of India.) 

VEDANTIC:  Of or pertaining to the Vedas. 

VEDANTIST:  One versed in the doctrines of the Vedantas. 

VEDETTE:  A sentinel, usually on horseback, stationed on the outpost of an army, to watch an enemy and give notice of danger; a vidette. 

VEDRO:  A Russian liquid measure, equal to 3.249 gallons of U.S. standard measure, or 2.706 imperial gallons. McElrath. 

VEER:  To change direction; to turn; to shift; as, wind veers to the west or north. "His veering gait." Wordsworth. And as he leads, the following navy veers. Dryden. an ordinary community which is hostile or friendly as passion or as interest may veer about. Burke. To veer and haul (Naut.), to vary the course or direction; -- said of the wind, which veers aft and hauls forward. The wind is also said to veer when it shifts with the sun. 

VEER:  To direct to a different course; to turn; to wear; as, to veer, or wear, a vessel. To veer and haul (Naut.), to pull tight and slacken alternately. Totten.  -- To veer away or out (Naut.), to let out; to slacken and let run; to pay out; as, to veer away the cable; to veer out a rope. 

VEERING:  Shifting.  -- Veer"ing*ly, adv. 

VEERY:  An American thrush (Turdus fuscescens) common in the Northern United States and Canada. It is light tawny brown above. The breast is pale buff, thickly spotted with brown. Called also Wilson's thrush. Sometimes I hear the veery's clarion. Thoreau. 

VEGA:  A brilliant star of the first magnitude, the brightest of those constituting the constellation Lyra. 

VEGETABILITY:  The quality or state of being vegetable. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

VEGETABLE:  Plants having distinct flowers and true seeds. { 1. Dicotyledons (called also Exogens).  -- Seeds with two or more cotyledons. Stems with the pith, woody fiber, and bark concentrically arranged. Divided into two subclasses: Angiosperms, having the woody fiber interspersed with dotted or annular ducts, and the seed contained in a true ovary; Gymnosperms, having few or no ducts in the woody fiber, and the seeds naked. 2. Monocotyledons (called also Endogens).  -- Seeds with single cotyledon. Stems with slender bundles of woody fiber not concentrically arranged, and with no true bark.} II. Cryptogamia.  Plants without true flowers, and reproduced by minute spores of various kinds, or by simple cell division. { 1. Acrogens.  -- Plants usually with distinct stems and leaves, existing in two alternate conditions, one of which is nonsexual and sporophoric, the other sexual and oöphoric. Divided into Vascular Acrogens, or Pteridophyta, having the sporophoric plant conspicuous and consisting partly of vascular tissue, as in Ferns, Lycopods, and Equiseta, and Cellular Acrogens, or Bryophyta, having the sexual plant most conspicuous, but destitute of vascular tissue, as in Mosses and Scale Mosses. 2. Thallogens.  -- Plants without distinct stem and leaves, consisting of a simple or branched mass of cellular tissue, or educed to a single cell. Reproduction effected variously. Divided into Algæ, which contain chlorophyll or its equivalent, and which live upon air and water, and Fungi, which contain no chlorophyll, and live on organic matter. (Lichens are now believed to be fungi parasitic on included algæ.}  Note: Many botanists divide the Phænogamia primarily into Gymnosperms and Angiosperms, and the latter into Dicotyledons and Monocotyledons. Others consider Pteridophyta and Bryophyta to be separate classes. Thallogens are variously divided by different writers, and the places for diatoms, slime molds, and stoneworts are altogether uncertain. For definitions, see these names in the Vocabulary. 

VEGETAL:  A vegetable. [R.] B. Jonson. 

VEGETALITY:  The quality or state of being vegetal, or exhibiting those physiological phenomena which are common to plants and animals. See Vegetal, a., 2. 

VEGETARIAN:  One who holds that vegetables and fruits are the only proper food for man. Strict vegetarians eat no meat, eggs, or milk. 

VEGETARIAN:  Of or pertaining to vegetarianism; as, a vegetarian diet. 

VEGETARIANISM:  The theory or practice of living upon vegetables and fruits. 

VEGETATE:  To grow exuberantly; to produce fleshy or warty outgrowths; as, a vegetating papule. 

VEGETATION:  An exuberant morbid outgrowth upon any part, especially upon the valves of the heart. Vegetation of salts (Old Chem.), a crystalline growth of an arborescent form. 

VEGETATIVE:  Having relation to growth or nutrition; partaking of simple growth and enlargement of the systems of nutrition, apart from the sensorial or distinctively animal functions; vegetal.  -- Veg"e*ta*tive*ly, adv.  -- Veg"e*ta*tive*ness, n. 

VEGETE:  Lively; active; sprightly; vigorous. [Obs.] Even her body was made airy and vegete. Jer. Taylor. 

VEGETISM:  Vegetal state or characteristic. 

VEGETIVE:  Having the nature of a plant; vegetable; as, vegetive life. [R.] Tusser. 

VEGETIVE:  A vegetable. [Obs.] The blest infusions That dwell in vegetives, in metals, stones. Shak.  VEGETO-ANIMAL Veg"e*to-an"i*mal, a. (Biol.)  Partaking of the nature both of vegetable and animal matter; -- a term sometimes applied to vegetable albumen and gluten, from their resemblance to similar animal products. 

VEGETOUS:  Vigorous; lively; active; vegete. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

VEHEMENCY:  Vehemence. [R.] The vehemency of your affection. Shak. 

VEHEMENTLY:  In a vehement manner. 

VEHICLE:  A substance in which medicine is taken.  4. (Paint.)  Any liquid with which a pigment is applied, including whatever gum, wax, or glutinous or adhesive substance is combined with it.  Note: Water is used in fresco and in water-color painting, the colors being consolidated with gum arabic; size is used in distemper painting. In oil painting, the fixed oils of linseed, nut, and poppy, are used; in encaustic, wax is the vehicle. Fairholt. 

VEHICLED:  Conveyed in a vehicle; furnished with a vehicle. M. Green. 

VEHICULAR:  Of or pertaining to a vehicle; serving as a vehicle; as, a vehicular contrivance. 

VEHICULARY:  Vehicular. 

VEHICULATE:  To convey by means of a vehicle; to ride in a vehicle. Carlyle. 

VEHICULATION:  Movement of vehicles. 

VEHICULATORY:  Vehicular. Carlyle.  VEHM; VEHME Vehm, Vehme, n.; pl. Vehme (#). [See Vehmgericht.]  A vehmic court. 

VEHMGERICHT:  A vehmic court. 

VEHMIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain secret tribunals flourished in Germany from the end of the 12th century to the middle of the 16th, usurping many of the functions of the government which were too weak to maintain law and order, and inspiring dread in all who came within their jurisdiction. Encyc. Brit. 

VEIL:  A covering for a person or thing; as, a nun's veil; a paten veil; an altar veil.  5. (Zoöl.)  Same as Velum, 3. To take the veil (Eccl.), to receive or be covered with, a veil, as a nun, in token of retirement from the world; to become a nun. 

VEILED:  Covered by, or as by, a veil; hidden. "Words used to convey a veiled meaning." Earle.  VEILED PLATE Veiled plate. (Photog.)  A fogged plate. 

VEILING:  A veil; a thin covering; also, material for making veils. 

VEILLESS:  Having no veil. Tennyson. 

VEIN:  One of the vessels which carry blood, either venous or arterial, to the heart. See Artery, 2.  2. (Bot.)  One of the similar branches of the framework of a leaf.  3. (Zoöl.)  One of the ribs or nervures of the wings of insects. See Venation.  4. (Geol. or Mining)  A narrow mass of rock intersecting other rocks, and filling inclined or vertical fissures not corresponding with the stratification; a lode; a dike; -- often limited, in the language of miners, to a mineral vein or lode, that is, to a vein which contains useful minerals or ores.  5. A fissure, cleft, or cavity, as in the earth or other substance. "Down to the veins of earth." Milton. Let the glass of the prisms be free from veins. Sir I. Newton.  6. A streak or wave of different color, appearing in wood, and in marble and other stones; variegation.  7. A train of association, thoughts, emotions, or the like; a current; a course. He can open a vein of true and noble thinking. Swift.  8. Peculiar temper or temperament; tendency or turn of mind; a particular disposition or cast of genius; humor; strain; quality; also, manner of speech or action; as, a rich vein of humor; a satirical vein. Shak. Certain discoursing wits which are of the same veins. Bacon. Invoke the Muses, and improve my vein. Waller. 

VEIN:  To form or mark with veins; to fill or cover with veins. Tennyson. 

VEINAL:  Pertaining to veins; venous. [R.] 

VEINED:  Having fibrovascular threads extending throughout the lamina; as, a veined leaf. 

VEINLESS:  Having no veins; as, a veinless leaf. 

VEINLET:  A small vein. 

VEINOUS:  Marked with veins; veined; veiny. The excellent old gentleman's nails are long and leaden, and his hands lean and veinous. Dickens.  VEIN QUARTZ Vein quartz.  Quartz occurring as gangue in a vein. 

VEINSTONE:  The nonmetalliferous mineral or rock material which accompanies the ores in a vein, as quartz, calcite, barite, fluor spar, etc.; -- called also veinstuff. 

VEINY:  Full of veins; veinous; veined; as, veiny marble. 

VELAR:  Having the place of articulation on the soft palate; guttural; as, the velar consonants, such as k and hard q. 

VELARIUM:  The marginal membrane of certain medusæ belonging to the Discophora. 

VELATE:  Having a veil; veiled. 

VELDT:  A region or tract of land; esp., the open field; grass country. [South Africa]  VELDT SORE Veldt sore. (Med.)  An infective sore mostly on the hands and feet, often contracted in walking on the veldt and apparently due to a specific microörganism. 

VELE:  A veil. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VELELLA:  Any species of oceanic Siphonophora belonging to the genus Velella.  Note: These creatures are brilliantly colored and float at the surface of the sea. They have an oblong, disklike body, supported by a thin chitinous plate, from which rises a thin diagonal crest which acts as a sail. The feeding and reproductive zooids hang down from the under side of the disk. 

VELIFEROUS:  Carrying or bearing sails. [Obs.] "Veliferous chariots." Evelyn. 

VELIGER:  Any larval gastropod or bivalve mollusk in the state when it is furnished with one or two ciliated membranes for swimming. 

VELITATION:  A dispute or contest; a slight contest; a skirmish. [R.] Sir M. Hale. After a short velitation we parted. Evelyn. 

VELIVOLANT:  Flying with sails; passing under full sail. [R.] 

VELL:  The salted stomach of a calf, used in making cheese; a rennet bag. [Prov. Eng.] 

VELL:  To cut the turf from, as for burning. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

VELLEITY:  The lowest degree of desire; imperfect or incomplete volition. Locke. 

VELLET:  Velvet. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VELLICATE:  To twitch; to cause to twitch convulsively. Convulsions, arising from something vellicating a nerve in its extremity, are not very dangerous. Arbuthnot. 

VELLICATE:  To move spasmodically; to twitch; as, a nerve vellicates. 

VELLICATION:  A local twitching, or convulsive motion, of a muscular fiber, especially of the face. 

VELLICATIVE:  Having the power of vellicating, plucking, or twitching; causing vellication. 

VELLON:  A word occurring in the phrase real vellon. See the Note under Its Real. 

VELLUM:  A fine kind of parchment, usually made from calfskin, and rendered clear and white, -- used as for writing upon, and for binding books. Vellum cloth, a fine kind of cotton fabric, made very transparent, and used as a tracing cloth. 

VELLUMY:  Resembling vellum. 

VELOCIMETER:  An apparatus for measuring speed, as of machinery or vessels, but especially of projectiles. 

VELOCIPEDE:  A light road carriage propelled by the feet of the rider. Originally it was propelled by striking the tips of the toes on the roadway, but commonly now by the action of the feet on a pedal or pedals connected with the axle of one or more of the wheels, and causing their revolution. They are made in many forms, with two, three, or four wheels. See Bicycle, and Tricycle. 

VELOCIPEDIST:  One who rides on a velocipede. 

VELOCITY:  Rate of motion; the relation of motion to time, measured by the number of units of space passed over by a moving body or point in a unit of time, usually the number of feet passed over in a second. See the Note under Speed. Angular velocity. See under Angular.  -- Initial velocity, the velocity of a moving body at starting; especially, the velocity of a projectile as it leaves the mouth of a firearm from which it is discharged.  -- Relative velocity, the velocity with which a body approaches or recedes from another body, whether both are moving or only one.  -- Uniform velocity, velocity in which the same number of units of space are described in each successive unit of time.  -- Variable velocity, velocity in which the space described varies from instant, either increasing or decreasing; -- in the former case called accelerated velocity, in the latter, retarded velocity; the acceleration or retardation itself being also either uniform or variable.  -- Virtual velocity. See under Virtual.  Note: In variable velocity, the velocity, strictly, at any given instant, is the rate of motion at that instant, and is expressed by the units of space, which, if the velocity at that instant were continued uniform during a unit of time, would be described in the unit of time; thus, the velocity of a falling body at a given instant is the number of feet which, if the motion which the body has at that instant were continued uniformly for one second, it would pass through in the second. The scientific sense of velocity differs from the popular sense in being applied to all rates of motion, however slow, while the latter implies more or less rapidity or quickness of motion.  Syn.  -- Swiftness; celerity; rapidity; fleetness; speed. 

VELOURS:  One of many textile fabrics having a pile like that of velvet.  VELOUTE; SAUCE VELOUTE Ve*lou`té", n., or Sauce velouté. [F. velouté, lit., velvety.] (Cookery)  A white sauce or stock made by boiling down ham, veal, beef, fowl, bouillon, etc., then adding soup stock, seasoning, vegetables, and thickening, and again boiling and straining. 

VELTFARE:  The fieldfare. [Prov. Eng.] 

VELUM:  Curtain or covering; -- applied to various membranous partitions, especially to the soft palate. See under Palate.  2. (Bot.) (a) See Veil, n., 3 (b). (b) A thin membrane surrounding the sporocarps of quillworts Isoetes).  3. (Zoöl.)  A veil-like organ or part. Especially: (a) The circular membrane that partially incloses the space beneath the umbrella of hydroid medusæ. (b) A delicate funnel-like membrane around the flagellum of certain Infusoria. See Illust. a of Protozoa. 

VELURE:  Velvet. [Obs.] "A woman's crupper of velure." Shak. 

VELUTINA:  Any one of several species of marine gastropods belonging to Velutina and allied genera. 

VELUTINOUS:  Having the surface covered with a fine and dense silky pubescence; velvety; as, a velutinous leaf. 

VELVERD:  The veltfare. [Prov. Eng.] 

VELVERET:  A kind of velvet having cotton back. 

VELVET:  Made of velvet; soft and delicate, like velvet; velvety. " The cowslip's velvet head." Milton. 

VELVET:  To pain velvet. [R.] Peacham. 

VELVET:  To make like, or cover with, velvet. [R.] 

VELVETBREAST:  The goosander. [Local, U. S.] 

VELVETEEN:  A kind of cloth, usually cotton, made in imitation of velvet; cotton velvet. 

VELVETING:  The fine shag or nap of velvet; a piece of velvet; velvet goods. 

VELVETLEAF:  A name given to several plants which have soft, velvety leaves, as the Abutilon Avicennæ, the Cissampelos Pareira, and the Lavatera arborea, and even the common mullein. 

VELVETY:  Made of velvet, or like velvet; soft; smooth; delicate. 

VENA:  A vein. Vena cava; pl. Venæ cavæ. Etym: [L., literally, hollow vein.] (Anat.) Any one of the great systemic veins connected directly with the heart.-- Vena contracta. Etym: [L., literally, contracted vein.] (Hydraulics) The contracted portion of a liquid jet at and near the orifice from which it issues.  -- Vena portæ; pl. VenÆ portæ. Etym: [L., literally, vein of the entrance.] (Anat.) The portal vein of the liver. See under Portal. 

VENADA:  The pudu. 

VENAL:  Of or pertaining to veins; venous; as, venal blood. [R.] 

VENAL:  Capable of being bought or obtained for money or other valuable consideration; made matter of trade or barter; held for sale; salable; mercenary; purchasable; hireling; as, venal services. " Paid court to venal beauties." Macaulay. The venal cry and prepared vote of a passive senate. Burke.  Syn.  -- Mercenary; hireling; vendible.  -- Venal, Mercenary. One is mercenary who is either actually a hireling (as, mercenary soldiers, a mercenary judge, etc.), or is governed by a sordid love of gain; hence, we speak of mercenary motives, a mercenary marriage, etc. Venal goes further, and supposes either an actual purchase, or a readiness to be purchased, which places a person or thing wholly in the power of the purchaser; as, a venal press. Brissot played ingeniously on the latter word in his celebrated saying, " My pen is venal that it may not be mercenary," meaning that he wrote books, and sold them to the publishers, in order to avoid the necessity of being the hireling of any political party. Thus needy wits a vile revenue made, And verse became a mercenary trade. Dryden. This verse be thine, my friend, nor thou refuse This, from no venal or ungrateful muse. Pope. 

VENALITY:  The quality or state of being venal, or purchasable; mercenariness; prostitution of talents, offices, or services, for money or reward; as, the venality of a corrupt court; the venality of an official. Complaints of Roman venality became louder. Milton. 

VENALLY:  In a venal manner. 

VENANTES:  The hunting spiders, which run after, or leap upon, their prey. 

VENARY:  Of or, pertaining to hunting.  VENATIC; VENATICAL Ve*nat"ic, Ve*nat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. venaticus, fr. venatus hunting, fr. venari, p. p. venatus, to hunt.]  Of or pertaining to hunting; used in hunting. [R.] " Venatical pleasure." Howell. 

VENATICA:  See Vinatico. 

VENATION:  The arrangement or system of veins, as in the wing of an insect, or in the leaves of a plant. See Illust. in Appendix. 

VENATION:  The act or art of hunting, or the state of being hunted. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

VENATORIAL:  Or or pertaining to hunting; venatic. [R.] 

VEND:  To transfer to another person for a pecuniary equivalent; to make an object of trade; to dispose of by sale; to sell; as, to vend goods; to vend vegetables.  Note: Vend differs from barter. We vend for money; we barter for commodities. Vend is used chiefly of wares, merchandise, or other small articles, not of lands and tenements. 

VENDACE:  A European lake whitefish (Coregonus Willughbii, or C. Vandesius) native of certain lakes in Scotland and England. It is regarded as a delicate food fish. Called also vendis. 

VENDEE:  The person to whom a thing is vended, or sold; -- the correlative of vendor. 

VENDEMIAIRE:  The first month of the French republican calendar, dating from September 22, 1792.  Note: This calendar was substituted for the ordinary calendar, dating from the Christian era, by a decree of the National Convention in 1793. The 22d of September, 1792, which had been fixed upon as the day of the foundation of the republic, was also the date of the new calendar. In this calendar, the year, which began at midnight of the day of the autumnal equinox, was divided into twelve months of thirty days, with five additional days for festivals, and every fourth year six. Each month was divided into three decades of ten days each, the week being abolished. The names of the months in their order were, Vendémiaire, Brumaire, Frimaire Nivose, Pluviose, Ventose, Germinal, Floréal, Prairial, Messidor, Thermidor (sometimes called Fervidor), and Fructidor. This calendar was abolished December 31, 1805, and the ordinary one restored January 1, 1806. 

VENDER:  One who vends; one who transfers the exclusive right of possessing a thing, either his own, or that of another as his agent, for a price or pecuniary equivalent; a seller; a vendor. 

VENDETTA:  A blood feud; private revenge for the murder of a kinsman. 

VENDIBILITY:  The quality or state of being vendible, or salable. 

VENDIBLE:  Capable of being vended, or sold; that may be sold; salable. The regulating of prices of things vendible. Bacon.  Note: Vendible differs from marketable; the latter signifies proper or fit for market, according to the laws or customs of a place. Vendible has no reference to such legal fitness. 

VENDIBLE:  Something to be sold, or offered for sale.  -- Vend"i*ble*ness, n.  -- Vend"i*bly, adv. 

VENDITATE:  To cry up. as if for sale; to blazon. [Obs.] Holland. 

VENDITATION:  The act of setting forth ostentatiously; a boastful display. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

VENDITION:  The act of vending, or selling; sale. 

VENDOR:  A vender; a seller; the correlative of vendee.  VENDOR'S LIEN Vend"or's lien. (Law)  An implied lien (that is, one not created by mortgage or other express agreement) given in equity to a vendor of lands for the unpaid purchase money. 

VENDS:  See Wends. 

VENDUE:  A public sale of anything, by outcry, to the highest bidder; an auction. [Obsoles.] Vendue master, one who is authorized to sell any property by vendue; an auctioneer. [Obsoles.] 

VENEER:  To overlay or plate with a thin layer of wood or other material for outer finish or decoration; as, to veneer a piece of furniture with mahogany. Used also figuratively. As a rogue in grain Veneered with sanctimonious theory. Tennyson. 

VENEER:  A thin leaf or layer of a more valuable or beautiful material for overlaying an inferior one, especially such a thin leaf of wood to be glued to a cheaper wood; hence, external show; gloss; false pretense. Veneer moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus Chilo; -- so called because the mottled colors resemble those of veneering. 

VENEFICAL:  Veneficial. [Obs.] "Venefical instruments." B. Jonson. 

VENEFICE:  The act or practice of poisoning. [Obs.]  VENEFICIAL; VENEFICIOUS Ven`e*fi"cial, Ven`e*fi"cious, a.  Acting by poison; used in poisoning or in sorcery. [Obs.] "An old veneficious practice." Sir T. Browne.  -- Ven`e*fi"cious*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

VENEMOUS:  Venomous. [Obs.] 

VENENATE:  To poison; to infect with poison. [R.] Harvey. 

VENENATE:  Poisoned. Woodward. 

VENENE:  Poisonous; venomous. [Obs.] 

VENENOSE:  Poisonous. [Obs.] 

VENERABILITY:  The quality or state of being venerable; venerableness. Dr. H. More. 

VENERACEA:  An extensive tribe of bivalve mollusks of which the genus Venus is the type. The shells are usually oval, or somewhat heartshaped, with a conspicuous lunule. See Venus. 

VENERATE:  To regard with reverential respect; to honor with mingled respect and awe; to reverence; to revere; as, we venerate parents and elders. And seemed to venerate the sacred shade. Dryden. I do not know a man more to be venerated for uprightness of heart and loftiness of genius. Sir W. Scott.  Syn.  -- To reverence; revere; adore; respect. 

VENERATION:  The act of venerating, or the state of being venerated; the highest degree of respect and reverence; respect mingled with awe; a feeling or sentimental excited by the dignity, wisdom, or superiority of a person, by sacredness of character, by consecration to sacred services, or by hallowed associations. We find a secret awe and veneration for one who moves about us in regular and illustrious course of virtue. Addison.  Syn.  -- Awe; reverence; respect. See Reverence. 

VENERATOR:  One who venerates. Jer. Taylor 

VENEREAL:  The venereal disease; syphilis. 

VENEREAN:  Devoted to the offices of Venus, or love; venereal. [Obs.] "I am all venerean in feeling." Chaucer. 

VENEROUS:  Venereous. [Obs.] Burton. 

VENERY:  Sexual love; sexual intercourse; coition. Contentment, without the pleasure of lawful venery, is continence; of unlawful, chastity. Grew. 

VENERY:  The art, act, or practice of hunting; the sports of the chase. "Beasts of venery and fishes." Sir T. Browne. I love hunting and venery. Chaucer. 

VENESECTION:  The act or operation of opening a vein for letting blood; bloodletting; phlebotomy. 

VENETIAN:  Of or pertaining to Venice in Italy. Venetian blind, a blind for windows, doors, etc., made of thin slats, either fixed at a certain angle in the shutter, or movable, and in the latter case so disposed as to overlap each other when close, and to show a series of open spaces for the admission of air and light when in other positions.  -- Venetian carpet, an inexpensive carpet, used for passages and stairs, having a woolen warp which conceals the weft; the pattern is therefore commonly made up of simple stripes.  -- Venetian chalk, a white compact or steatite, used for marking on cloth, etc.  -- Venetian door (Arch.), a door having long, narrow windows or panes of glass on the sides.  -- Venetian glass, a kind of glass made by the Venetians, for decorative purposes, by the combination of pieces of glass of different colors fused together and wrought into various ornamental patterns.  -- Venetian red, a brownish red color, prepared from sulphate of iron; -- called also scarlet ocher.  -- Venetian soap. See Castile soap, under Soap.  -- Venetian sumac (Bot.), a South European tree (Rhus Cotinus) which yields the yellow dyewood called fustet; -- also called smoke tree.  -- Venetian window (Arch.), a window consisting of a main window with an arched head, having on each side a long and narrow window with a square head. 

VENETIAN:  A native or inhabitant of Venice. 

VENEW:  A bout, or turn, as at fencing; a thrust; a hit; a veney. [Obs.] Fuller. 

VENEY:  A bout; a thrust; a venew. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. Three veneys for a dish of stewed prunes. Shak. 

VENGE:  To avenge; to punish; to revenge. [Obs.] See Avenge, and Revenge. Chaucer. "To venge me, as I may." Shak. 

VENGEABLE:  Revengeful; deserving revenge. [Obs.] Spenser.  -- Venge"a*bly, adv. [Obs.] 

VENGEANCELY:  Extremely; excessively. [Obs.] "He loves that vengeancely." Beau. & Fl. 

VENGEFUL:  Vindictive; retributive; revengeful. "Vengeful ire." Milton.  -- Venge"ful*ly, adv. 

VENGEMENT:  Avengement; penal retribution; vengeance. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VENGER:  An avenger. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VENIABLE:  Venial; pardonable. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.  -- Ve"ni*a*bly, adv. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

VENIALITY:  The quality or state of being venial; venialness. Jer. Taylor. 

VENIN:  A toxic substance contained in the venom of poisonous snakes; also, a (supposedly identical) toxic substance obtained by the cleavage of an albumose.  VENIRE FACIAS Ve*ni"re fa"ci*as. Etym: [L., make, or cause, to come.] (Law) (a) A judicial writ or precept directed to the sheriff, requiring him to cause a certain number of qualified persons to appear in court at a specified time, to serve as jurors in said court. (b) A writ in the nature of a summons to cause the party indicted on a penal statute to appear. Called also venire. 

VENITE:  The 95th Psalm, which is said or sung regularly in the public worship of many churches. Also, a musical composition adapted to this Psalm. 

VENOM:  To infect with venom; to envenom; to poison. [R.] "Venomed vengeance." Shak. 

VENOMOUS:  Having a poison gland or glands for the secretion of venom, as certain serpents and insects.  3. Noxious; mischievous; malignant; spiteful; as, a venomous progeny; a venomous writer. Venomous snake (Zoöl.), any serpent which has poison glands and fangs, whether dangerous to man or not. These serpents constitute two tribes, the viperine serpents, or Solenoglypha, and the cobralike serpents, or Proteroglypha. The former have perforated, erectile fangs situated in the front part of the upper jaw, and are without ordinary teeth behind the fangs; the latter have permanently erect and grooved fangs, with ordinary maxillary teeth behind them.  -- Ven"om*ous*ly, adv.  -- Ven"om*ous*ness, n. 

VENOSE:  Having numerous or conspicuous veins; veiny; as, a venose frond. 

VENOSITY:  A condition in which the circulation is retarded, and the entire mass of blood is less oxygenated than it normally is. 

VENOUS:  Of or pertaining to a vein or veins; as, the venous circulation of the blood.  2. Contained in the veins, or having the same qualities as if contained in the veins, that is, having a dark bluish color and containing an insufficient amount of oxygen so as no longer to be fit for oxygenating the tissues; -- said of the blood, and opposed to arterial.  3. Marked with veins; veined; as, a venous leaf. Venous leaf (Bot.), a leaf having vessels branching, or variously divided, over its surface.  -- Venous hum (Med.), a humming sound, or bruit, heard during auscultation of the veins of the neck in anæmia.  -- Venous pulse (Physiol.), the pulse, or rhythmic contraction, sometimes seen in a vein, as in the neck, when there is an obstruction to the passage of blood from the auricles to the ventricles, or when there is an abnormal rigidity in the walls of the greater vessels. There is normally no pulse in a vein. 

VENT:  Sale; opportunity to sell; market. [Obs.] Shelton. There is no vent for any commodity but of wool. Sir W. Temple. 

VENT:  To sell; to vend. [Obs.] Therefore did those nations vent such spice. Sir W. Raleigh. 

VENT:  A baiting place; an inn. [Obs.] 

VENT:  To snuff; to breathe or puff out; to snort. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VENT:  The anal opening of certain invertebrates and fishes; also, the external cloacal opening of reptiles, birds, amphibians, and many fishes. (b) (Gun.) The opening at the breech of a firearm, through which fire is communicated to the powder of the charge; touchhole. (c) (Steam Boilers) Sectional area of the passage for gases divided by the length of the same passage in feet.  3. Fig.: Opportunity of escape or passage from confinement or privacy; outlet.  4. Emission; escape; passage to notice or expression; publication; utterance. Without the vent of words. Milton. Thou didst make tolerable vent of thy travel. Shak. To give vent to, to suffer to escape; to let out; to pour forth; as, to give vent to anger.  -- To take vent, to escape; to be made public. [R.] -- Vent feather (Zoöl.), one of the anal, or crissal, feathers of a bird.  -- Vent field (Gun.), a flat raised surface around a vent.  -- Vent piece. (Gun.) (a) A bush. See 4th Bush, n, 2. (b) A breech block. 

VENTAGE:  A small hole, as the stop in a flute; a vent. Shak. 

VENTAIL:  That part of a helmet which is intended for the admission of air, -- sometimes in the visor. Spenser. Her ventail up so high that he descried Her goodly visage and her beauty's pride. Fairfax. 

VENTER:  One who vents; one who utters, reports, or publishes. [R.] Barrow. 

VENTER:  The lower part of the abdomen in insects.  3. (Rom. & O. E. Law)  A pregnant woman; a mother; as, A has a son B by one venter, and a daughter C by another venter; children by different venters. 

VENTHOLE:  A touchhole; a vent. 

VENTIDUCT:  A passage for wind or air; a passage or pipe for ventilating apartments. Gwilt. 

VENTILATIVE:  Of or pertaining to ventilation; adapted to secure ventilation; ventilating; as, ventilative apparatus. 

VENTILATOR:  A contrivance for effecting ventilation; especially, a contrivance or machine for drawing off or expelling foul or stagnant air from any place or apartment, or for introducing that which is fresh and pure. 

VENTOSE:  A ventouse. [Obs.] Holland. 

VENTOSE:  Windy; flatulent. Richardson (Dict.). 

VENTOSE:  The sixth month of the calendar adopted by the first French republic. It began February 19, and ended March 20. See Vend. 

VENTOSITY:  Quality or state of being ventose; windiness; hence, vainglory; pride. Bacon. 

VENTOUSE:  A cupping glass. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VENTOUSE:  To cup; to use a cupping glass. [Obs.] [Written also ventuse.] Chaucer. 

VENTRAD:  Toward the ventral side; on the ventral side; ventrally; -- opposed to dorsad. 

VENTRAL:  Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the belly, or ventral side, of an animal or of one of its parts; hemal; abdominal; as, the ventral fin of a fish; the ventral root of a spinal nerve; -- opposed to Ant: dorsal.  2. (Bot.) (a) Of or pertaining to that surface of a carpel, petal, etc., which faces toward the center of a flower. (b) Of or pertaining to the lower side or surface of a creeping moss or other low flowerless plant. Opposed to Ant: dorsal. Ventral fins (Zoöl.), the posterior pair of fins of a fish. They are often situated beneath the belly, but sometimes beneath the throat.  -- Ventral segment. (Acoustics) See Loop, n., 5. 

VENTRICLE:  A cavity, or one of the cavities, of an organ, as of the larynx or the brain; specifically, the posterior chamber, or one of the two posterior chambers, of the heart, which receives the blood from the auricle and forces it out from the heart. See Heart.  Note: The principal ventricles of the brain are the fourth in the medulla, the third in the midbrain, the first and second, or lateral, ventricles in the cerebral hemispheres, all of which are connected with each other, and the fifth, or pseudoc, situated between the hemispheres, in front of, or above, the fornix, and entirely disconnected with the other cavities. See Brain, and C.  2. The stomach. [Obs.] Whether I will or not, while I live, my heart beats, and my ventricle digests what is in it. Sir M. Hale.  3. Fig.: Any cavity, or hollow place, in which any function may be conceived of as operating. These [ideas] are begot on the ventricle of memory. Shak.  VENTRICOSE; VENTRICOUS Ven"tri*cose`, Ven"tri*cous, a. Etym: [NL. ventricosus, fr. L. venter belly.] (Nat. Hist.)  Swelling out on one side or unequally; bellied; ventricular; as, a ventricose corolla. Ventricose shell. (Zoöl.) (a) A spiral shell having the body whorls rounded or swollen in the middle. (b) A bivalve shell in which the valves are strongly convex. 

VENTRICULAR:  Of or pertaining to a ventricle; bellied. 

VENTRICULITE:  Any one of numerous species of siliceous fossil sponges belonging to Ventriculites and allied genera, characteristic of the Cretaceous period.  Note: Many of them were shaped like vases, others like mushrooms. They belong to the hexactinellids, and are allied to the Venus's basket of modern seas. 

VENTRICULOUS:  Somewhat distended in the middle; ventricular. 

VENTRILOCUTION:  Ventriloquism. 

VENTRILOQUIAL:  Ventriloquous. 

VENTRILOQUISM:  The act, art, or practice of speaking in such a manner that the voice appears to come, not from the person speaking, but from some other source, as from the opposite side of the room, from the cellar, etc. 

VENTRILOQUIST:  One who practices, or is skilled in, ventriloquism. Ventriloquist monkey (Zoöl.), the onappo; -- so called from the character of its cry. 

VENTRILOQUIZE:  To practice ventriloquism; to speak like a ventriloquist. 

VENTRILOQUOUS:  Of or pertaining to a ventriloquist or ventriloquism. 

VENTRILOQUY:  Same as Ventriloquism. 

VENTRIMESON:  See Meson.  VENTRO- Ven"tro- (. Etym: [L. venter belly.]  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the abdomen; also, connection with, relation to, or direction toward, the ventral side; as, ventrolateral; ventro- inguinal.  VENTRO-INGUINAL Ven`tro-in"gui*nal, a. (Anat.)  Pertaining both to the abdomen and groin, or to the abdomen and inguinal canal; as, ventro-inguinal hernia. 

VENTURESOME:  Inclined to venture; not loth to run risk or danger; venturous; bold; daring; adventurous; as, a venturesome boy or act.  -- Ven"ture*some*ly, adv.  -- Ven"ture*some*ness, n. 

VENTURINE:  Gold powder for covering varnished surfaces. 

VENTUROUS:  Daring; bold; hardy; fearless; venturesome; adveturous; as, a venturous soldier. Spenser. This said, he paused not, but with venturous arm He plucked, he tasted. Milton. -- Ven"tur*ous*ly, adv.  -- Ven"tur*ous*ness, n. 

VENTUSE:  See Ventouse. [Obs.] 

VENUE:  A neighborhood or near place; the place or county in which anything is alleged to have happened; also, the place where an action is laid. The twelve men who are to try the cause must be of the same venue where the demand is made. Blackstone.  Note: In certain cases, the court has power to change the venue, which is to direct the trial to be had in a different county from that where the venue is laid.  2. A bout; a hit; a turn. See Venew. [R.] To lay a venue (Law), to allege a place. 

VENULE:  A small vein; a veinlet; specifically (Zoöl.), one of the small branches of the veins of the wings in insects. 

VENULOSE:  Full of venules, or small veins. 

VENUS:  The goddess of beauty and love, that is, beauty or love deified.  2. (Anat.)  One of the planets, the second in order from the sun, its orbit lying between that of Mercury and that of the Earth, at a mean distance from the sun of about 67,000,000 miles. Its diameter is 7,700 miles, and its sidereal period 224.7 days. As the morning star, it was called by the ancients Lucifer; as the evening star, Hesperus.  3. (Alchem.)  The metal copper; -- probably so designated from the ancient use of the metal in making mirrors, a mirror being still the astronomical symbol of the planet Venus. [Archaic]  4. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Venus or family Veneridæ. Many of these shells are large, and ornamented with beautiful frills; others are smooth, glossy, and handsomely colored. Some of the larger species, as the round clam, or quahog, are valued for food. Venus's basin (Bot.), the wild teasel; - - so called because the connate leaf bases form a kind of receptacle for water, which was formerly gathered for use in the toilet. Also called Venus's bath.  -- Venus's basket (Zoöl.), an elegant, cornucopia-shaped, hexactinellid sponge (Euplectella speciosa) native of the East Indies. It consists of glassy, transparent, siliceous fibers interwoven and soldered together so as to form a firm network, and has long, slender, divergent anchoring fibers at the base by means of which it stands erect in the soft mud at the bottom of the sea. Called also Venus's flower basket, and Venus's purse.  -- Venus's comb. (a) (Bot.) Same as Lady's comb. (b) (Zoöl.) A species of Murex (M. tenuispinus). It has a long, tubular canal, with a row of long, slender spines along both of its borders, and rows of similar spines covering the body of the shell. Called also Venus's shell.  -- Venus's fan (Zoöl.), a common reticulated, fanshaped gorgonia (Gorgonia flabellum) native of Florida and the West Indies. When fresh the color is purple or yellow, or a mixture of the two.  -- Venus's flytrap. (Bot.) See Flytrap, 2.  -- Venus's girdle (Zoöl.), a long, flat, ribbonlike, very delicate, transparent and iridescent ctenophore (Cestum Veneris) which swims in the open sea. Its form is due to the enormous development of two spheromeres. See Illust. in Appendix.  -- Venus's hair (Bot.), a delicate and graceful fern (Adiantum Capillus-Veneris) having a slender, black and shining stem and branches.  -- Venus's hair stone (Min.), quartz penetrated by acicular crystals of rutile.  -- Venus's looking-glass (Bot.), an annual plant of the genus Specularia allied to the bellflower; -- also called lady's looking- glass.  -- Venus's navelwort (Bot.), any one of several species of Omphalodes, low boraginaceous herbs with small blue or white flowers.  -- Venus's pride (Bot.), an old name for Quaker ladies. See under Quaker.  -- Venus's purse. (Zoöl.) Same as Venus's basket, above.  -- Venus's shell. (Zoöl.) (a) Any species of Cypræa; a cowrie. (b) Same as Venus's comb, above. (c) Same as Venus, 4.  -- Venus's slipper. (a) (Bot.) Any plant of the genus Cypripedium. See Lady's slipper. (b) (Zoöl.) Any heteropod shell of the genus Carinaria. See Carinaria. 

VENUST:  Beautiful. [R.] E. Waterhouse. 

VERACIOUSLY:  In a veracious manner. 

VERACITY:  The quality or state of being veracious; habitual observance of truth; truthfulness; truth; as, a man of veracity. 

VERANDA:  An open, roofed gallery or portico, adjoining a dwelling house, forming an out-of-door sitting room. See Loggia. The house was of adobe, low, with a wide veranda on the three sides of the inner court. Mrs. H. H. Jackson. 

VERATRALBINE:  A yellowish amorphous alkaloid extracted from the rootstock of Veratrum album. 

VERATRATE:  A salt of veratric acid. 

VERATRIA:  Veratrine. 

VERATRIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, plants of the genus Veratrum. Veratric acid (Chem.), an acid occurring, together with veratrine, in the root of white hellebore (Veratrum album), and in sabadilla seed; -- extracted as a white crystalline substance which is related to protocatechuic acid. 

VERATRINA:  Same as Veratrine. 

VERATRINE:  A poisonous alkaloid obtained from the root hellebore (Veratrum) and from sabadilla seeds as a white crystalline powder, having an acrid, burning taste. It is sometimes used externally, as in ointments, in the local treatment of neuralgia and rheumatism. Called also veratria, and veratrina. 

VERATROL:  A liquid hydrocarbon obtained by the decomposition of veratric acid, and constituting the dimethyl ether of pyrocatechin. 

VERATRUM:  A genus of coarse liliaceous herbs having very poisonous qualities.  Note: Veratrum album of Europe, and Veratrum viride of America, are both called hellebore. They grow in wet land, have large, elliptical, plicate leaves in three vertical ranks, and bear panicles of greenish flowers. 

VERB:  A word which affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part of speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action.  Note: A verb is a word whereby the chief action of the mind [the assertion or the denial of a proposition] finds expression. Earle. Active verb, Auxiliary verb, Neuter verb, etc. See Active, Auxiliary, Neuter, etc. 

VERBAL:  Of or pertaining to a verb; as, a verbal group; derived directly from a verb; as, a verbal noun; used in forming verbs; as, a verbal prefix. Verbal inspiration. See under Inspiration.  -- Verbal noun (Gram.), a noun derived directly from a verb or verb stem; a verbal. The term is specifically applied to infinitives, and nouns ending in -ing, esp. to the latter. See Gerund, and -ing, 2. See also, Infinitive mood, under Infinitive. 

VERBAL:  A noun derived from a verb. 

VERBALISM:  Something expressed verbally; a verbal remark or expression. 

VERBALIST:  A literal adherent to, or a minute critic of, words; a literalist. 

VERBALITY:  The quality or state of being verbal; mere words; bare literal expression. [R.] "More verbality than matter." Bp. Hall. 

VERBALIZATION:  The act of verbalizing, or the state of being verbalized. 

VERBALIZE:  To convert into a verb; to verbify. 

VERBALIZE:  To be verbose. 

VERBARIAN:  Of or pertaining to words; verbal. [R.] Coleridge. 

VERBARIAN:  One who coins words. [R.] Southey gives himself free scope as a verbarian. Fitzed. Hall. 

VERBARIUM:  A game in word making. See Logomachy, 2. 

VERBATIM:  Word for word; in the same words; verbally; as, to tell a story verbatim as another has related it. Verbatim et literatim Etym: [LL.], word for word, and letter for letter. 

VERBENA:  A genus of herbaceous plants of which several species are extensively cultivated for the great beauty of their flowers; vervain.  Note: Verbena, or vervain, was used by the Greeks, the Romans, and the Druids, in their sacred rites. Brewer. Essence of verbena, Oil of verbena, a perfume prepared from the lemon verbena; also, a similar perfume properly called grass oil. See Grass oil, under Grass.  -- Lemon, or Sweet, verbena, a shrubby verbenaceous plant (Lippia citriodora), with narrow leaves which exhale a pleasant, lemonlike fragrance when crushed. 

VERBENACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order (Verbenaceæ) of gamopetalous plants of which Verbena is the type. The order includes also the black and white mangroves, and many plants noted for medicinal use or for beauty of bloom. 

VERBENATE:  To strew with verbena, or vervain, as in ancient sacrifices and rites. 

VERBERATE:  To beat; to strike. [Obs.] "The sound . . . rebounds again and verberates the skies." Mir. for Mag. 

VERBIAGE:  The use of many words without necessity, or with little sense; a superabundance of words; verbosity; wordiness. Verbiage may indicate observation, but not thinking. W. Irving. This barren verbiage current among men. Tennyson. 

VERBIFY:  To make into a verb; to use as a verb; to verbalize. [R.] Earle. 

VERBOSE:  Abounding in words; using or containing more words than are necessary; tedious by a multiplicity of words; prolix; wordy; as, a verbose speaker; a verbose argument. Too verbose in their way of speaking. Ayliffe. -- Ver*bose"ly, adv.  -- Ver*bose"ness, n. 

VERBOSITY:  The quality or state of being verbose; the use of more words than are necessary; prolixity; wordiness; verbiage. The worst fault, by far, is the extreme diffuseness and verbosity of his style. Jeffrey. 

VERDANCY:  The quality or state of being verdant. 

VERDANTLY:  In a verdant manner.  VERDERER; VERDEROR Ver"der*er, Ver"der*or, n. Etym: [F. verdier, LL. viridarius, fr. L. viridis green.] (Eng. Forest Law)  An officer who has the charge of the king's forest, to preserve the vert and venison, keep the assizes, view, receive, and enroll attachments and presentments of all manner of trespasses. Blackstone. 

VERDICT:  The answer of a jury given to the court concerning any matter of fact in any cause, civil or criminal, committed to their examination and determination; the finding or decision of a jury on the matter legally submitted to them in the course of the trial of a cause.  Note: The decision of a judge or referee, upon an issue of fact, is not called a verdict, but a finding, or a finding of fact. Abbott.  2. Decision; judgment; opinion pronounced; as, to be condemned by the verdict of the public. These were enormities condemned by the most natural verdict of common humanity. South. Two generations have since confirmed the verdict which was pronounced on that night. Macaulay. 

VERDIGRIS:  A green poisonous substance used as a pigment and drug, obtained by the action of acetic acid on copper, and consisting essentially of a complex mixture of several basic copper acetates.  2. The green rust formed on copper. [Colloq.]  Note: This rust is a carbonate of copper, and should not be confounded with true verdigris. U. S. Disp. Blue verdigris (Chem.), a verdigris having a blue color, used a pigment, etc.  -- Distilled verdigris (Old Chem.), an acid copper acetate; -- so called because the acetic acid used in making it was obtained from distilled vinegar.  -- Verdigris green, clear bluish green, the color of verdigris. 

VERDIGRIS:  To cover, or coat, with verdigris. [R.] "An old verdigrised brass bugle." Hawthorne. 

VERDIN:  A small yellow-headed bird (Auriparus flaviceps) of Lower California, allied to the titmice; -- called also goldtit. 

VERDINE:  A commercial name for green aniline dye. 

VERDINGALE:  See Farthingale. [Spelled also verdingall.] [Obs.] 

VERDIT:  Verdict. Chaucer. 

VERDITURE:  The faintest and palest green. 

VERDOY:  Charged with leaves, fruits, flowers, etc.; -- said of a border. 

VERDURE:  Green; greenness; freshness of vegetation; as, the verdure of the meadows in June. A wide expanse of living verdure, cultivated gardens, shady groves, fertile cornfields, flowed round it like a sea. Motley. 

VERDURED:  Covered with verdure. Poe. 

VERDURELESS:  Destitute of verdure. 

VERDUROUS:  Covered with verdure; clothed with the fresh green of vegetation; verdured; verdant; as, verdurous pastures. Milton. 

VERECUND:  Rashful; modest. [Obs.] 

VERECUNDIOUS:  Verecund. [Obs.] "Verecundious generosity." Sir H. Wotton. 

VERECUNDITY:  The quality or state of being verecund; modesty. [Obs.] 

VEREIN:  A union, association, or society; -- used in names of German organizations. 

VERETILLUM:  Any one of numerous species of club-shaped, compound Alcyonaria belonging to Veretillum and allied genera, of the tribe Pennatulacea. The whole colony can move about as if it were a simple animal.  VERGALIEN; VERGALOO Ver"ga*lien, Ver"ga*loo, n. Etym: [Cf. Virgouleuse.] (Bot.)  See Virgalieu. 

VERGE:  The compass of the court of Marshalsea and the Palace court, within which the lord steward and the marshal of the king's household had special jurisdiction; -- so called from the verge, or staff, which the marshal bore.  4. A virgate; a yardland. [Obs.]  5. A border, limit, or boundary of a space; an edge, margin, or brink of something definite in extent. Even though we go to the extreme verge of possibility to invent a supposition favorable to it, the theory . . . implies an absurdity. J. S. Mill. But on the horizon's verge descried, Hangs, touched with light, one snowy sail. M. Arnold.  6. A circumference; a circle; a ring. The inclusive verge Of golden metal that must round my brow. Shak.  7. (Arch.) (a) The shaft of a column, or a small ornamental shaft. Oxf. Gloss. (b) The edge of the tiling projecting over the gable of a roof. Encyc. Brit.  8. (Horol.)  The spindle of a watch balance, especially one with pallets, as in the old vertical escapement. See under Escapement.  9. (Hort.) (a) The edge or outside of a bed or border. (b) A slip of grass adjoining gravel walks, and dividing them from the borders in a parterre.  10. The penis.  11. (Zoöl.)  The external male organ of certain mollusks, worms, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.  Syn.  -- Border; edge; rim; brim; margin; brink. 

VERGEBOARD:  The ornament of woodwork upon the gable of a house, used extensively in the 15th century. It was generally suspended from the edge of the projecting roof (see Verge, n., 4), and in position parallel to the gable wall. Called also bargeboard. 

VERGENCY:  The reciprocal of the focal distance of a lens, used as measure of the divergence or convergence of a pencil of rays. [R.] Humphrey Lloyd. 

VERGER:  One who carries a verge, or emblem of office. Specifically: -- (a) An attendant upon a dignitary, as on a bishop, a dean, a justice, etc. [Eng.] Strype. (b) The official who takes care of the interior of a church building. 

VERGER:  A garden or orchard. [Obs.] 

VERGETTE:  Divided by pallets, or pales; paly. W. Berry. 

VERGETTE:  A small pale. 

VERIDICAL:  Truth-telling; truthful; veracious. [R.] Carlyle. 

VERIFIABLE:  Capable of being verified; confirmable. Bp. Hall. 

VERIFICATIVE:  Serving to verify; verifying; authenciating; confirming. 

VERIFIER:  One who, or that which, verifies. 

VERILOQUENT:  Speaking truth; truthful. [Obs.] 

VERILY:  In very truth; beyond doubt or question; in fact; certainly. Bacon. Trust in the Lord and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the verily thou shalt be fed. Ps. xxxvii. 3. 

VERINE:  An alkaloid obtained as a yellow amorphous substance by the decomposition of veratrine. 

VERISIMILAR:  Having the appearance of truth; probable; likely. "How verisimilar it looks." Carlyle. 

VERISIMILITUDE:  The quality or state of being verisimilar; the appearance of truth; probability; likelihood. Verisimilitude and opinion are an easy purchase; but true knowledge is dear and difficult. Glanvill. All that gives verisimilitude to a narrative. Sir. W. Scott. 

VERISIMILITY:  Verisimilitude. [Obs.] The verisimility or probable truth. Sir T. Browne. 

VERISIMILOUS:  Verisimilar. [Obs.] 

VERITABLE:  Agreeable to truth or to fact; actual; real; true; genuine. "The veritable Deity." Sir W. Hamilton.  -- Ver"i*ta*bly, adv. 

VERITAS:  The Bureau Veritas. See under Bureau. 

VERMEOLOGIST:  One who treats of vermes, or worms; a helminthologist. 

VERMEOLOGY:  A discourse or treatise on worms; that part of zoölogy which treats of worms; helminthology. [R.] 

VERMETID:  Any species of vermetus. 

VERMETUS:  Any one of many species of marine gastropods belonging to Vermetus and allied genera, of the family Vermetidæ. Their shells are regularly spiral when young, but later in life the whorls become separate, and the shell is often irregularly bent and contorted like a worm tube. 

VERMICELLI:  The flour of a hard and small-grained wheat made into dough, and forced through small cylinders or pipes till it takes a slender, wormlike form, whence the Italian name. When the paste is made in larger tubes, it is called macaroni. 

VERMICIDE:  A medicine which destroys intestinal worms; a worm killer. Pereira. 

VERMICIOUS:  Of or pertaining to worms; wormy. 

VERMICULAR:  Of or pertaining to a worm or worms; resembling a worm; shaped like a worm; especially, resembling the motion or track of a worm; as, the vermicular, or peristaltic, motion of the intestines. See Peristaltic. "A twisted form vermicular." Cowper. 

VERMICULATE:  To form or work, as by inlaying, with irregular lines or impressions resembling the tracks of worms, or appearing as if formed by the motion of worms. 

VERMICULATED:  Made or marked with irregular wavy lines or impressions; vermiculate. Vermiculated work, or Vermicular work (Arch.), rustic work so wrought as to have the appearance of convoluted worms, or of having been eaten into by, or covered with tracks of, worms. Gwilt. 

VERMICULATION:  A very fine wavy crosswise color marking, or a patch of such markings, as on the feathers of birds. 

VERMICULE:  A small worm or insect larva; also, a wormlike body. [R.] Derham. 

VERMICULITE:  A group of minerals having, a micaceous structure. They are hydrous silicates, derived generally from the alteration of some kind of mica. So called because the scales, when heated, open out into wormlike forms.  VERMICULOSE; VERMICULOUS Ver*mic"u*lose`, Ver*mic"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. vermiculosus. See Vermicule.]  Containing, or full of, worms; resembling worms. 

VERMIFORM:  Resembling a worm in form or motions; vermicular; as, the vermiform process of the cerebellum. Vermiform appendix (Anat.), a slender blind process of the cæcum in man and some other animals; -- called also vermiform appendage, and vermiform process. Small solid bodies, such as grape seeds or cherry stones, sometimes lodge in it, causing serious, or even fatal, inflammation. See Illust. under Digestion. 

VERMIFORMIA:  A tribe of worms including Phoronis. See Phoronis. 

VERMIFUGAL:  Tending to prevent, destroy, or expel, worms or vermin; anthelmintic. 

VERMIFUGE:  A medicine or substance that expels worms from animal bodies; an anthelmintic. 

VERMIL:  See Vermeil. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VERMILION:  A bright red pigment consisting of mercuric sulphide, obtained either from the mineral cinnabar or artificially. It has a fine red color, and is much used in coloring sealing wax, in printing, etc.  Note: The kermes insect has long been used for dyeing red or scarlet. It was formerly known as the worm dye, vermiculus, or vermiculum, and the cloth was called vermiculatia. Hence came the French vermeil for any red dye, and hence the modern name vermilion, although the substance it denotes is very different from the kermes, being a compound of mercury and sulphur. R. Hunt.  2. Hence, a red color like the pigment; a lively and brilliant red; as, cheeks of vermilion. 

VERMILION:  To color with vermilion, or as if with vermilion; to dye red; to cover with a delicate red. 

VERMILY:  Vermeil. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VERMINATE:  To breed vermin. 

VERMINLY:  Resembling vermin; in the manner of vermin. [Obs.] Gauden. 

VERMINOUSLY:  In a verminous manner. 

VERMIPAROUS:  Producing or breeding worms. "Vermiparous animals." Sir T. Browne. 

VERMIVOROUS:  Devouring worms; feeding on worms; as, vermivorous birds. 

VERMUTH:  A liqueur made of white wine, absinthe, and various aromatic drugs, used to excite the appetite. [Written also vermouth.] 

VERNACLE:  See Veronica, 1. [Obs.] 

VERNACULAR:  Belonging to the country of one's birth; one's own by birth or nature; native; indigenous; -- now used chiefly of language; as, English is our vernacular language. "A vernacular disease." Harvey. His skill the vernacular dialect of the Celtic tongue. Fuller. Which in our vernacular idiom may be thus interpreted. Pope. 

VERNACULAR:  The vernacular language; one's mother tongue; often, the common forms of expression in a particular locality. 

VERNACULARISM:  A vernacular idiom. 

VERNACULARIZATION:  The act or process of making vernacular, or the state of being made vernacular. Fitzed. Hall. 

VERNACULARLY:  In a vernacular manner; in the vernacular. Earle. 

VERNACULOUS:  Scoffing; scurrilous. [A Latinism. Obs.] "Subject to the petulancy of every vernaculous orator." B. Jonson. 

VERNAGE:  A kind of sweet wine from Italy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VERNANT:  Flourishing, as in spring; vernal. [Obs.] "Vernant flowers." Milton. 

VERNATE:  To become young again. [Obs.] 

VERNATION:  The arrangement of the leaves within the leaf bud, as regards their folding, coiling, rolling, etc.; prefoliation.  VERNER'S LAW Ver"ner's law. (Philol.)  A statement, propounded by the Danish philologist Karl Verner in 1875, which explains certain apparent exceptions to Grimm's law by the original position of the accent. Primitive Indo-European k, t, p, became first in Teutonic h, th, f, and appear without further change in old Teutonic, if the accent rested on the preceding syllable; but these sounds became voiced and produced g, d, b, if the accent was originally on a different syllable. Similarly s either remained unchanged, or it became z and later r. Example: Skt. sapta (accent on ultima), Gr. 'e`pta, Gothic sibun (seven). Examples in English are dead by the side of death, to rise and to rear. 

VERNICLE:  A Veronica. See Veronica, 1. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. A vernicle had he sowed upon his cap. Chaucer. 

VERNICOSE:  Having a brilliantly polished surface, as some leaves. 

VERNIER:  A short scale made to slide along the divisions of a graduated instrument, as the limb of a sextant, or the scale of a barometer, for indicating parts of divisions. It is so graduated that a certain convenient number of its divisions are just equal to a certain number, either one less or one more, of the divisions of the instrument, so that parts of a division are determined by observing what line on the vernier coincides with a line on the instrument. Vernier calipers, Vernier gauge, a gauge with a graduated bar and a sliding jaw bearing a vernier, used for accurate measurements.  -- Vernier compass, a surveyor's compass with a vernier for the accurate adjustment of the zero point in accordance with magnetic variation.  -- Vernier transit, a surveyor's transit instrument with a vernier compass. 

VERNILE:  Suiting a salve; servile; obsequious. [R.] The example . . . of vernile scurrility. De Quincey. 

VERNILITY:  Fawning or obsequious behavior; servility. [R.] Bailey. 

VERNINE:  An alkaloid extracted from the shoots of the vetch, red clover, etc., as a white crystalline substance. 

VERNISH:  Varnish. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VERNONIN:  A glucoside extracted from the root of a South African plant of the genus Vernonia, as a deliquescent powder, and used as a mild heart tonic. 

VERONESE:  Of or pertaining to Verona, in Italy.  -- n. sing. & pl.  A native of Verona; collectively, the people of Verona. 

VERONICA:  A genus scrophulariaceous plants; the speedwell. See Speedwell.  Note: Several herbaceous species are common in both Europe and America, most of which have small blue flowers. A few shrubby species from New Zealand are sometimes found in cultivation. 

VERRAY:  Very; true. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VERRAYMENT:  Verily; truly. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VERREL:  See Ferrule. [Obs.] 

VERRICULATE:  Having thickset tufts of parallel hairs, bristles, or branches. 

VERRUCIFORM:  Shaped like a wart or warts. 

VERRUCOSE:  Covered with wartlike elevations; tuberculate; warty; verrucous; as, a verrucose capsule. 

VERRUCOUS:  Verrucose. 

VERRUCULOSE:  Minutely verrucose; as, a verruculose leaf or stalk. 

VERRUGAS:  An endemic disease occurring in the Andes in Peru, characterized by warty tumors which ulcerate and bleed. It is probably due to a special bacillus, and is often fatal. 

VERS:  A verse or verses. See Verse. [Obs.] "Ten vers or twelve." Chaucer. 

VERSABILITY:  The quality or state of being versable. [R.] Sterne 

VERSABLE:  Capable of being turned. [R.] 

VERSABLENESS:  Versability. [R.] 

VERSAL:  Universal. [Obs. or Colloq.] Shak. 

VERSANT:  Familiar; conversant. [R.] Men not versant with courts of justice. Sydney Smith. 

VERSANT:  The slope of a side of a mountain chain; hence, the general slope of a country; aspect. 

VERSATILE:  Capable of turning; freely movable; as, a versatile anther, which is fixed at one point to the filament, and hence is very easily turned around; a versatile toe of a bird.  -- Ver"sa*tile*ly, adv.  -- -- Ver"sa*tile*ness, n. 

VERSATILITY:  The quality or state of being versatile; versatileness.  VERS DE SOCIETE Vers` de so`cié`té". Etym: [F.]  See Society verses, under Society. 

VERSE:  To tell in verse, or poetry. [Obs.] Playing on pipes of corn and versing love. Shak. 

VERSE:  To make verses; to versify. [Obs.] It is not rhyming and versing that maketh a poet. Sir P. Sidney. 

VERSED:  Acquainted or familiar, as the result of experience, study, practice, etc.; skilled; practiced. Deep versed in books and shallow in himself. Milton. Opinions . . . derived from studying the Scriptures, wherein he was versed beyond any person of his age. Southey. These men were versed in the details of business. Macaulay. 

VERSED:  Turned. Versed sine. See under Sine, and Illust. of Functions. 

VERSEMAN:  Same as Versemonger. Prior. 

VERSEMONGER:  A writer of verses; especially, a writer of commonplace poetry; a poetaster; a rhymer; -- used humorously or in contempt. 

VERSER:  A versifier. B. Jonson. 

VERSET:  A verse. [Obs.] Milton. 

VERSICLE:  A little verse; especially, a short verse or text said or sung in public worship by the priest or minister, and followed by a response from the people. The psalms were in number fifteen, . . . being digested into versicles. Strype.  VERSICOLOR; VERSICOLORED Ver"si*col`or, Ver"si*col`ored, a. Etym: [L. versicolor; versare to change + color color.]  Having various colors; changeable in color. "Versicolor, sweet- smelling flowers." Burton. 

VERSICULAR:  Of or pertaining to verses; designating distinct divisions of a writing. 

VERSIFICATION:  The act, art, or practice, of versifying, or making verses; the construction of poetry; metrical composition. 

VERSIFICATOR:  A versifier. [R.] "The best versificator next Virgil." Dryden. 

VERSIFY:  To make verses. I'll versify in spite, and do my best. Dryden. 

VERSION:  A condition of the uterus in which its axis is deflected from its normal position without being bent upon itself. See Anteversion, and Retroversion.  3. The act of translating, or rendering, from one language into another language.  4. A translation; that which is rendered from another language; as, the Common, or Authorized, Version of the Scriptures (see under Authorized); the Septuagint Version of the Old Testament.  5. An account or description from a particular point of view, especially as contrasted with another account; as, he gave another version of the affair. 

VERSIONIST:  One who makes or favors a version; a translator. [R.] 

VERSO:  The reverse, or left-hand, page of a book or a folded sheet of paper; -- opposed to recto. 

VERSOR:  The turning factor of a quaternion.  Note: The change of one vector into another is considered in quaternions as made up of two operations; 1st, the rotation of the first vector so that it shall be parallel to the second; 2d, the change of length so that the first vector shall be equal to the second. That which expresses in amount and kind the first operation is a versor, and is denoted geometrically by a line at right angles to the plane in which the rotation takes place, the length of this line being proportioned to the amount of rotation. That which expresses the second operation is a tensor. The product of the versor and tensor expresses the total operation, and is called a quaternion. See Quaternion. Quadrantal versor. See under Quadrantal. 

VERST:  A Russian measure of length containing 3,500 English feet. [Written also werst.] 

VERSUAL:  Of or pertaining to a verse. 

VERSUS:  Against; as, John Doe versus Richard Roe; -- chiefly used in legal language, and abbreviated to v. or vs. 

VERSUTE:  Crafty; wily; cunning; artful. [R.] 

VERT:  The color green, represented in a drawing or engraving by parallel lines sloping downward toward the right. 

VERTEBER:  A vertebra. [Obs.] 

VERTEBRA:  One of the serial segments of the spinal column.  Note: In many fishes the vertebræ are simple cartilaginous disks or short cylinders, but in the higher vertebrates they are composed of many parts, and the vertebræ in different portions of the same column vary very greatly. A well-developed vertebra usually consists of a more or less cylindrical and solid body, or centrum, which is surmounted dorsally by an arch, leaving an opening which forms a part of the canal containing the spinal cord. From this dorsal, or neural, arch spring various processes, or apophyses, which have received special names: a dorsal, or neural, spine, spinous process, or neurapophysis, on the middle of the arch; two anterior and two posterior articular processes, or zygapophyses; and one or two transverse processes on each side. In those vertebræ which bear well- developed ribs, a tubercle near the end of the rib articulates at a tubercular facet on the transverse process (diapophysis), while the end, or head, of the rib articulates at a more ventral capitular facet which is sometimes developed into a second, or ventral, transverse process (parapophysis). In vertebrates with well-developed hind limbs, the spinal column is divided into five regions in each of which the vertebræ are specially designated: those vertebræ in front of, or anterior to, the first vertebra which bears ribs connected with the sternum are cervical; all those which bear ribs and are back of the cervicals are dorsal; the one or more directly supporting the pelvis are sacral and form the sacrum; those between the sacral and dorsal are lumbar; and all those back of the sacral are caudal, or coccygeal. In man there are seven cervical vertebræ, twelve dorsal, five lumbar, five sacral, and usually four, but sometimes five and rarely three, coccygeal.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the central ossicles in each joint of the arms of an ophiuran. 

VERTEBRAL:  Of or pertaining to a vertebræ, or the vertebral column; spinal; rachidian.  2. Vertebrate. 

VERTEBRAL:  A vertebrate. [R.] 

VERTEBRALLY:  At or within a vertebra or vertebræ; -- distinguished from interverterbrally. 

VERTEBRARTERIAL:  Of or pertaining to a vertebræ and an artery; -- said of the foramina in the transverse processes of cervical vertebræ and of the canal which they form for the vertebral artery and vein. 

VERTEBRATA:  One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, comprising all animals that have a backbone composed of bony or cartilaginous vertebræ, together with Amphioxus in which the backbone is represented by a simple undivided notochord. The Vertebrata always have a dorsal, or neural, cavity above the notochord or backbone, and a ventral, or visceral, cavity below it. The subdivisions or classes of Vertebrata are Mammalia, Aves, Reptilia, Amphibia, Pisces, Marsipobranchia, and Leptocardia. 

VERTEBRATE:  One of the Vertebrata.  VERTEBRATE; VERTEBRATED Ver"te*brate, Ver"te*bra`ted, a. Etym: [L. vertebratus.]  1. (Anat.)  Having a backbone, or vertebral column, containing the spinal marrow, as man, quadrupeds, birds, amphibia, and fishes.  2. (Bot.)  Contracted at intervals, so as to resemble the spine in animals. Henslow.  3. (Zoöl.)  Having movable joints resembling vertebræ; -- said of the arms ophiurans.  4. (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to the Vertebrata; -- used only in the form vertebrate. 

VERTEBRE:  A vertebra. [Obs.]  VERTEBRO- Ver"te*bro-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, a vertebra, vertebræ, or vertebral column; as in vertebrocostal.  VERTEBRO-ILIAC Ver"te*bro-il"i*ac, a. (Anat.)  Iliolumbar. 

VERTEX:  A turning point; the principal or highest point; top; summit; crown; apex. Specifically: --(a) (Anat.)  The top, or crown, of the head. (b) (Anat.) The zenith, or the point of the heavens directly overhead. (c) (Math.) The point in any figure opposite to, and farthest from, the base; the terminating point of some particular line or lines in a figure or a curve; the top, or the point opposite the base.  Note: The principal vertex of a conic section is, in the parabola, the vertex of the axis of the curve: in the ellipse, either extremity of either axis, but usually the left-hand vertex of the transverse axis; in the hyperbola, either vertex, but usually the right-hand vertex of the transverse axis. Vertex of a curve (Math.), the point in which the axis of the curve intersects it.  -- Vertex of an angle (Math.), the point in which the sides of the angle meet.  -- Vertex of a solid, or of a surface of revolution (Math.), the point in which the axis pierces the surface. 

VERTICAL:  A vertical line, plane, or circle. Prime vertical, Prime vertical dial. See under Prime, a. 

VERTICALITY:  The quality or state of being vertical; verticalness. [R.] The different points of the verticality. Sir T. Browne. 

VERTICALLY:  In a vertical manner, position, or direction; perpendicularly; as, to look down vertically; to raise a thing vertically. 

VERTICALNESS:  Quality or state of being vertical. 

VERTICIL:  A circle either of leaves or flowers about a stem at the same node; a whorl. [Written also verticel.] 

VERTICILLASTER:  A whorl of flowers apparently of one cluster, but composed of two opposite axillary cymes, as in mint. See Illust. of Whorl.  VERTICILLATE; VERTICILLATED Ver*tic"il*late, Ver*tic"il*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Verticil.] (Bot. & Zoöl.)  Arranged in a transverse whorl or whorls like the rays of a wheel; as, verticillate leaves of a plant; a verticillate shell. 

VERTICILLUS:  A whorl; a verticil. 

VERTICITY:  The quality or power of turning; revolution; rotation. [R.] Locke. I hardly believe he hath from elder times unknown the verticity of the loadstone. Sir T. Browne. 

VERTICLE:  An axis; hinge; a turning point. E. Waterhouse. 

VERTIGINATE:  Turned round; giddy. [R.] Coleridge. 

VERTIGO:  Dizziness or swimming of the head; an affection of the head in which objects, though stationary, appear to move in various directions, and the person affected finds it difficult to maintain an erect posture; giddiness. Quian.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of small land snails belonging to the genus Vertigo, having an elongated or conical spiral shell and usually teeth in the aperture. 

VERTILINEAR:  Straight; rectilinear. [R.] 

VERTUOUS:  Virtuous; powerful. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VERUMONTANUM:  An elevation, or crest, in the wall of the urethra where the seminal ducts enter it.  Note: This is sometimes written veru montanum. 

VERVAIN:  Any plant of the genus Verbena. Vervain mallow (Bot.), a species of mallow (Malva Alcea) with rose-colored flowers. 

VERVE:  Excitement of imagination such as animates a poet, artist, or musician, in composing or performing; rapture; enthusiasm; spirit; energy. 

VERVEL:  See Varvel. 

VERVET:  A South African monkey (Cercopithecus pygerythrus, or Lelandii). The upper parts are grayish green, finely specked with black. The cheeks and belly are reddish white. 

VERY:  True; real; actual; veritable. Whether thou be my very son Esau or not. Gen. xxvii. 21. He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter separateth very friends. Prov. xvii. 9. The very essence of truth is plainness and brightness. Milton. I looked on the consideration of public service or public ornament to be real and very justice. Burke.  Note: Very is sometimes used to make the word with which it is connected emphatic, and may then be paraphrased by same, self-same, itself, and the like. "The very hand, the very words." Shak. "The very rats instinctively have quit it." Shak. "Yea, there where very desolation dwells." Milton. Very is used occasionally in the comparative degree, and more frequently in the superlative. "Was not my lord the verier wag of the two" Shak. "The veriest hermit in the nation." Pope. "He had spoken the very truth, and transformed it into the veriest falsehood." Hawthorne. Very Reverend. See the Note under Reverend. 

VERY:  In a high degree; to no small extent; exceedingly; excessively; extremely; as, a very great mountain; a very bright sum; a very cold day; the river flows very rapidly; he was very much hurt.  VERY'S NIGHT SIGNALS; VERY NIGHT SIGNALS; VERY'S LIGHT SIGNALS; VERY LIGHT SIGNALS Ver"y's, or Ver"y, night signals . [After Lieut. Samuel W. Very, who invented the system in 1877.] (Naut.)  A system of signaling in which balls of red and green fire are fired from a pistol, the arrangement in groups denoting numbers having a code significance. 

VESBIUM:  A rare metallic element of which little is known. It is said by Scacchi to have been extracted from a yellowish incrustation from the cracks of a Vesuvian lava erupted in 1631. 

VESE:  Onset; rush; violent draught or wind. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VESICA:  A bladder. Vesica piscis. Etym: [L., dish bladder.] (Eccl. Art) A glory, or aureole, of oval shape, or composed of two arcs of circles usually represented as surrounding a divine personage. More rarely, an oval composed of two arcs not representing a glory; a solid oval, etc. 

VESICAL:  Of or pertaining to the bladder. Dunglison. 

VESICANT:  A vesicatory. 

VESICATE:  To raise little bladders or blisters upon; to inflame and separate the cuticle of; to blister. Wiseman. 

VESICATION:  The process of vesicating, or of raising blisters. 

VESICATORY:  Tending, or having power, to raise a blister.  -- n.  A blistering application or plaster; a vesicant; an epispastic. 

VESICLE:  A bladderlike vessel; a membranous cavity; a cyst; a cell. Specifically: --(a) (Bot.)  A small bladderlike body in the substance of vegetable, or upon the surface of a leaf. (b) (Med.)  A small, and more or less circular, elevation of the cuticle, containing a clear watery fluid. (c) (Anat.) A cavity or sac, especially one filled with fluid; as, the umbilical vesicle. (d) (Zoöl.) A small convex hollow prominence on the surface of a shell or a coral. (e) (Geol.) A small cavity, nearly spherical in form, and usually of the size of a pea or smaller, such as are common in some volcanic rocks. They are produced by the liberation of watery vapor in the molten mass.  VESICO- Ves"i*co-.  A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the bla; as in vesicoprostatic, vesicovaginal. 

VESICOPROSTATIC:  Of a pertaining to the bladder and the prostrate gland. 

VESICOUTERINE:  Of or pertaining to the bladder and the uterus. 

VESICOVAGINAL:  Of or pertaining to the bladder and the vagina. 

VESICULA:  A vesicle. 

VESICULARIA:  Any one of numerous species of marine Bryozoa belonging to Vesicularia and allied genera. They have delicate tubular cells attached in clusters to slender flexible stems. 

VESICULATA:  The campanularian medusæ. 

VESICULATE:  Bladdery; full of, or covered with, bladders; vesicular. 

VESICULATE:  To form vesicles in, as lava. 

VESICULATION:  The state of containing vesicles, or the process by which vesicles are formed. 

VESICULITIS:  Inflammation of a vesicle.  VESICULOSE; VESICULOUS Ve*sic"u*lose`, Ve*sic"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. vesiculosus: cf. F. vésiculeux.]  Bladdery; vesicular; vesiculate; composed of vesicles; covered with vesicles; as, a vesiculose shell. 

VESPA:  A genus of Hymenoptera including the common wasps and hornets. 

VESPER:  The evening star; Hesper; Venus, when seen after sunset; hence, the evening. Shak. 

VESPER:  Of or pertaining to the evening, or to the service of vespers; as, a vesper hymn; vesper bells. Vesper sparrow, the grass finch. See under Grass. 

VESPERAL:  Vesper; evening. [R.] 

VESPERTILIO:  A genus of bats including some of the common small insectivorous species of North America and Europe. 

VESPERTILIONES:  A tribe of bats including the common insectivorous bats of America and Europe, belonging to Vespertilio and allied genera. They lack a nose membrane. 

VESPERTILIONINE:  Of or pertaining to the Vespertiliones. 

VESPERTINAL:  Vespertine. Lowell. 

VESPERTINE:  Blossoming in the evening. 

VESPIARY:  A nest, or habitation, of insects of the wasp kind. 

VESPILLO:  One who carried out the dead bodies of the poor at night for burial. Like vespilloes or grave makers. Sir T. Browne. 

VESSEL:  Any tube or canal in which the blood or other fluids are contained, secreted, or circulated, as the arteries, veins, lymphatics, etc.  5. (Bot.)  A continuous tube formed from superposed large cylindrical or prismatic cells (tracheæ), which have lost their intervening partitions, and are usually marked with dots, pits, rings, or spirals by internal deposition of secondary membranes; a duct. Acoustic vessels. See under Acoustic.  -- Weaker vessel, a woman; -- now applied humorously. "Giving honor unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel." 1 Peter iii. 7. "You are the weaker vessel." Shak. 

VESSEL:  To put into a vessel. [Obs.] Bacon. 

VESSELFUL:  As much as a vessel will hold; enough to fill a vessel.  VESSES; VESSETS Ves"ses, Ves"sets, n.  A kind of worsted; also, a worsted cloth. [Prov. Eng.]  VESSICNON; VESSIGNON Ves"sic*non, Ves"sig*non, n. Etym: [F. vessigon, fr. L. vesica a bladder, blister.] (Far.)  A soft swelling on a horse's leg; a windgall. 

VEST:  To clothe with possession; as, to vest a person with an estate; also, to give a person an immediate fixed right of present or future enjoyment of; as, an estate is vested in possession. Bouvier. 

VEST:  To come or descend; to be fixed; to take effect, as a title or right; -- followed by in; as, upon the death of the ancestor, the estate, or the right to the estate, vests in the heir at law. 

VESTA:  One of the great divinities of the ancient Romans, identical with the Greek Hestia. She was a virgin, and the goddess of the hearth; hence, also, of the fire on it, and the family round it.  2. (Astron.)  An asteroid, or minor planet, discovered by Olbers in 1807.  3. A wax friction match. Simmonds. 

VESTAL:  Of or pertaining to Vesta, the virgin goddess of the hearth; hence, pure; chaste. 

VESTAL:  A virgin consecrated to Vesta, and to the service of watching the sacred fire, which was to be perpetually kept burning upon her altar.  Note: The Vestals were originally four, but afterward six, in number. Their term of service lasted thirty years, the period of admission being from the sixth to the tenth year of the candidate's age.  2. A virgin; a woman pure and chaste; also, a nun. How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! Pope. 

VESTALES:  A group of butterflies including those known as virgins, or gossamer-winged butterflies. 

VESTED:  Not in a state of contingency or suspension; fixed; as, vested rights; vested interests. Vested legacy (Law), a legacy the right to which commences in præsenti, and does not depend on a contingency; as, a legacy to one to be paid when he attains to twenty-one years of age is a vested legacy, and if the legatee dies before the testator, his representative shall receive it. Blackstone.  -- Vested remainder (Law), an estate settled, to remain to a determined person, after the particular estate is spent. Blackstone. Kent.  VESTED SCHOOL Vest"ed school.  In Ireland, a national school which has been built by the aid of grants from the board of Commissioners of National Education and is secured for educational purposes by leases to the commissioners themselves, or to the commissioners and the trustees. 

VESTIARIAN:  Of or pertaining to a vestiary or vestments. 

VESTIARY:  A wardrobe; a robing room; a vestry. Fuller. 

VESTIARY:  Pertaining to clothes, or vestments. 

VESTIBULAR:  Of or pertaining to a vestibule; like a vestibule. 

VESTIBULE:  The porch or entrance into a house; a hall or antechamber next the entrance; a lobby; a porch; a hall. Vestibule of the ear. (Anat.) See under Ear.  -- Vestibule of the vulva (Anat.), a triangular space between the nymphæ, in which the orifice of the urethra is situated.  -- Vestibule train (Railroads), a train of passenger cars having the space between the end doors of adjacent cars inclosed, so as to admit of leaving the doors open to provide for intercommunication between all the cars.  Syn.  -- Hall; passage.  -- Vestibule, Hall, Passage. A vestibule is a small apartment within the doors of a building. A hall is the first large apartment beyond the vestibule, and, in the United States, is often long and narrow, serving as a passage to the several apartments. In England, the hall is generally square or oblong, and a long, narrow space of entrance is called a passage, not a hall, as in America. Vestibule is often used in a figurative sense to denote a place of entrance. "The citizens of Rome placed the images of their ancestors in the vestibules of their houses." Bolingbroke  VESTIBULED TRAIN Vestibuled train. (Railroad)  Same as Vestibule  train, under Vestibule. 

VESTIBULUM:  A cavity into which, in certain bryozoans, the esophagus and anus open. 

VESTIGATE:  To investigate. [Obs.] 

VESTIGE:  The mark of the foot left on the earth; a track or footstep; a trace; a sign; hence, a faint mark or visible sign left by something which is lost, or has perished, or is no longer present; remains; as, the vestiges of ancient magnificence in Palmyra; vestiges of former population. What vestiges of liberty or property have they left Burke. Ridicule has followed the vestiges of Truth, but never usurped her place. Landor.  Syn.  -- Trace; mark; sign; token.  -- Vestige, Trace. These words agree in marking some indications of the past, but differ to some extent in their use and application. Vestige is used chiefly in a figurative sense, for the remains something long passed away; as, the vestiges of ancient times; vestiges of the creation. A trace is literally something drawn out in a line, and may be used in this its primary sense, or figuratively, to denote a sign or evidence left by something that has passed by, or ceased to exist. Vestige usually supposes some definite object of the past to be left behind; while a trace may be a mere indication that something has been present or is present; as, traces of former population; a trace of poison in a given substance. 

VESTIGIAL:  Of or pertaining to a vestige or remnant; like a vestige. 

VESTING:  Cloth for vests; a vest pattern. 

VESTITURE:  In vestiture. [R.] 

VESTLET:  Any one of several species of actinians belonging to the genus Cerianthus. These animals have a long, smooth body tapering to the base, and two separate circles of tentacles around the mouth. They form a tough, flexible, feltlike tube with a smooth internal lining, in which they dwell, whence the name. 

VESTMENT:  A covering or garment; some part of clothing or dress; specifically (Eccl.), any priestly garment. "Royal vestiment." Chaucer. "Priests in holy vestments." Shak. The sculptor could not give vestments suitable to the quality of the persons represented. Dryden. 

VESTRY:  A parochial assembly; an assembly of persons who manage parochial affairs; -- so called because usually held in a vestry.  3. (Prot. Epis. Ch.)  A body, composed of wardens and vestrymen, chosen annually by a parish to manage its temporal concerns. Metropolitan vestry, in the city of London, and certain specified parishes and places in England, a body composed of householders who pay poor rates. Its duties include the repair of churches, care of highways, the appointment of certain officers, etc.  -- Select vestry, a select number of persons chosen in large and populous English parishes to represent and manage the concerns of the parish for one year. Mozley & W.  -- Vestry board (Ch. of Eng.), a vestry. See def. 2, above.  -- Vestry clerk, an officer chosen by the vestry, who keeps a record of its proceedings; also, in England, one who keeps the parish accounts and books.  -- Vestry meeting, the meeting of a vestry or vestry board; also, a meeting of a parish held in a vestry or other place. 

VESTRYMAN:  A member of a vestry; especially (Prot. Epis. Ch.), a member other than a warden. See Vestry. 

VESTURED:  Covered with vesture or garments; clothed; enveloped. We be vestured with poor cloth. Ld. Berners. 

VESUVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Vesuvius, a volcano near Naples. 

VESUVIAN:  Vesuvianite. 

VESUVIANITE:  A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, and also massive, of a brown to green color, rarely sulphur yellow and blue. It is a silicate of alumina and lime with some iron magnesia, and is common at Vesuvius. Also called idocrase. 

VESUVINE:  A trade name for a brown dyestuff obtained from certain basic azo compounds of benzene; -- called also Bismarck brown, Manchester brown, etc. 

VETCH:  Any leguminous plant of the genus Vicia, some species of which are valuable for fodder. The common species is V. sativa.  Note: The name is also applied to many other leguminous plants of different genera; as the chichling vetch, of the genus Lathyrus; the horse vetch, of the genus Hippocrepis; the kidney vetch (Anthyllis vulneraria); the milk vetch, of the genus Astragalus; the licorice vetch, or wild licorice (Abrus precatorius). 

VETCHLING:  Any small leguminous plant of the genus Lathyrus, especially L. Nissolia. 

VETERAN:  Long exercised in anything, especially in military life and the duties of a soldier; long practiced or experienced; as, a veteran officer or soldier; veteran skill. The insinuating eloquence and delicate flattery of veteran diplomatists and courtiers. Macaulay. 

VETERAN:  One who has been long exercised in any service or art, particularly in war; one who has had. Ensigns that pierced the foe's remotest lines, The hardy veteran with tears resigns. Addison.  Note: In the United States, during the civil war, soldiers who had served through one term of enlistment and had reënlisted were specifically designated veterans. 

VETERANIZE:  To reënlist for service as a soldier. [U.S.] Gen. W. T. Sherman. 

VETERINARIAN:  One skilled in the diseases of cattle or domestic animals; a veterinary surgeon. 

VETERINARY:  Of or pertaining to the art of healing or treating the diseases of domestic animals, as oxen, horses, sheep, etc.; as, a veterinary writer or school. 

VETIVER:  An East Indian grass (Andropogon muricatus); also, its fragrant roots which are much used for making mats and screens. Also called kuskus, and khuskhus. [Sometimes written vetivert, and vitivert.] 

VETO:  To prohibit; to negative; also, to refuse assent to, as a legislative bill, and thus prevent its enactment; as, to veto an appropriation bill. 

VETOIST:  One who uses, or sustains the use of, the veto. 

VETTURA:  An Italian four-wheeled carriage, esp. one let for hire; a hackney coach. 

VETUST:  Venerable from antiquity; ancient; old. [Obs.] 

VEX:  To be irritated; to fret. [R.] Chapman. 

VEXER:  One who vexes or troubles. 

VEXIL:  A vexillum.  VEXILLAR; VEXILLARY Vex"il*lar, Vex"il*la*ry,Etym: [Cf. F. vexillaire, L. vexillarius a standard bearer.]  1. Of or pertaining to an ensign or standard.  2. (Bot.)  Of or pertaining to the vexillum, or upper petal of papilionaceous flowers. Vexilary æstivation (Bot.), a mode of æstivation in which one large upper petal folds over, and covers, the other smaller petals, as in most papilionaceous plants. 

VEXILLARY:  A standard bearer. Tennyson. 

VEXILLATION:  A company of troops under one vexillum. 

VEXILLUM:  The upper petal of a papilionaceous flower; the standard.  4. (Zoöl.)  The rhachis and web of a feather taken together; the vane. 

VEXINGLY:  In a vexing manner; so as to vex, tease, or irritate. Tatler.  V HOOK V" hook`. (Steam Engine)  A gab at the end of an eccentric rod, with long jaws, shaped like the letter V. 

VIA:  A road way. Via Lactea Etym: [L.] (Anat.), the Milky Way, or Galaxy. See Galaxy, 1.  -- Via media Etym: [L.] (Theol.), the middle way; -- a name applied to their own position by the Anglican high-churchmen, as being between the Roman Catholic Church and what they term extreme Protestantism. 

VIA:  By the way of; as, to send a letter via Queenstown to London. 

VIABILITY:  The quality or state of being viable. Specifically: --(a) (Law)  The capacity of living after birth. Bouvier. (b) The capacity of living, or being distributed, over wide geographical limits; as, the viability of a species. 

VIABLE:  Capable of living; born alive and with such form and development of organs as to be capable of living; -- said of a newborn, or a prematurely born, infant.  Note: Unless he [an infant] is born viable, he acquires no rights, and can not transmit them to his heirs, and is considered as if he had never been born. Bouvier. 

VIADUCT:  A structure of considerable magnitude, usually with arches or supported on trestles, for carrying a road, as a railroad, high above the ground or water; a bridge; especially, one for crossing a valley or a gorge. Cf. Trestlework. 

VIAGE:  A voyage; a journey. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gower. 

VIAL:  A small bottle, usually of glass; a little glass vessel with a narrow aperture intended to be closed with a stopper; as, a vial of medicine. [Written also phial.] Take thou this vial, being then in bed, And this distilled liquor thou off. Shak. 

VIAL:  To put in a vial or vials. "Precious vialed liquors." Milton. 

VIAMETER:  An odometer; -- called also viatometer. 

VIAND:  An article of food; provisions; food; victuals; -- used chiefly in the plural. Cowper. Viands of various kinds allure the taste. Pope. 

VIANDER:  A feeder; an eater; also, one who provides viands, or food; a host. [Obs.] Holinshed.  VI-APPLE Vi"-ap`ple, n.  See Otaheite apple. 

VIARY:  Of or pertaining to roads; happening on roads. [Obs.] 

VIATECTURE:  The art of making roads or ways for traveling, including the construction of bridges, canals, viaducts, etc. [R.] R. Park. 

VIATIC:  Of or pertaining to a journey or traveling. 

VIATICUM:  An allowance for traveling expenses made to those who were sent into the provinces to exercise any office or perform any service.  2. Provisions for a journey. Davies (Wit's Pilgr.).  3. (R. C. Ch.)  The communion, or eucharist, when given to persons in danger of death. 

VIATOMETER:  A viameter. 

VIBICES:  More or less extensive patches of subcutaneous extravasation of blood. 

VIBRACULUM:  One of the movable, slender, spinelike organs or parts with which certain bryozoans are furnished. They are regarded as specially modified zooids, of nearly the same nature as Avicularia. 

VIBRANCY:  The state of being vibrant; resonance. 

VIBRANT:  Vibrating; tremulous; resonant; as, vibrant drums. Longfellow. 

VIBRATILE:  Adapted to, or used in, vibratory motion; having the power of vibrating; vibratory; as, the vibratile organs of insects. 

VIBRATILITY:  The quality or state of being vibratile; disposition to vibration or oscillation. Rush. 

VIBRATION:  A limited reciprocating motion of a particle of an elastic body or medium in alternately opposite directions from its position of equilibrium, when that equilibrium has been disturbed, as when a stretched cord or other body produces musical notes, or particles of air transmit sounds to the ear. The path of the particle may be in a straight line, in a circular arc, or in any curve whatever.  Note: Vibration and oscillation are both used, in mechanics, of the swinging, or rising and falling, motion of a suspended or balanced body; the latter term more appropriately, as signifying such motion produced by gravity, and of any degree of slowness, while the former applies especially to the quick, short motion to and fro which results from elasticity, or the action of molecular forces among the particles of a body when disturbed from their position of rest, as in a spring. Amplitude of vibration, the maximum displacement of a vibrating particle or body from its position of rest.  -- Phase of vibration, any part of the path described by a particle or body in making a complete vibration, in distinction from other parts, as while moving from one extreme to the other, or on one side of the line of rest, in distinction from the opposite. Two particles are said to be in the same phase when they are moving in the same direction and with the same velocity, or in corresponding parts of their paths. 

VIBRATIUNCLE:  A small vibration. [R.] Chambers. 

VIBRATIVE:  ; vibratory. "A vibrative motion." Sir I. Newton. 

VIBRATOR:  A trembler, as of an electric bell. (2)  A vibrating reed for transmitting or receiving pulsating currents in a harmonic telegraph system. (3)  A device for vibrating the pen of a siphon recorder to diminish frictional resistance on the paper. (4) An oscillator.  (b) An ink-distributing roller in a printing machine, having an additional vibratory motion.  (a) (Music) A vibrating reed, esp. in a reed organ.  (d) (Weaving) Any of various vibrating devices, as one for slackening the warp as a shed opens.  (e) An attachment, usually pneumatic, in a molding machine to shake the pattern loose. 

VIBRATORY:  Consisting in, or causing, vibration, or oscillation; vibrating; as, a vibratory motion; a vibratory power. 

VIBRIO:  A genus of motile bacteria characterized by short, slightly sinuous filaments and an undulatory motion; also, an individual of this genus. 

VIBRISSA:  One of the specialized or tactile hairs which grow about the nostrils, or on other parts of the face, in many animals, as the so- called whiskers of the cat, and the hairs of the nostrils of man.  2. (Zoöl.)  The bristlelike feathers near the mouth of many birds. 

VIBROGRAPH:  An instrument to observe and record vibrations. 

VIBURNUM:  A genus of shrubs having opposite, petiolate leaves and cymose flowers, several species of which are cultivated as ornamental, as the laurestine and the guelder-rose. 

VICAR:  The incumbent of an appropriated benefice.  Note: The distinction between a parson [or rector] and vicar is this: The parson has, for the most part, the whole right to the ecclesiastical dues in his parish; but a vicar has generally an appropriator over him, entitled to the best part of the profits, to whom he is in fact perpetual curate with a standing salary. Burrill. Apostolic vicar, or Vicar apostolic. (R. C. Ch.) (a) A bishop to whom the Roman pontiff delegates a portion of his jurisdiction. (b) Any ecclesiastic acting under a papal brief, commissioned to exercise episcopal authority. (c) A titular bishop in a country where there is no episcopal see, or where the succession has been interrupted.  -- Vicar forane. Etym: [Cf. LL. foraneus situated outside of the episcopal city, rural. See Vicar, and Foreign.] (R. C. Ch.) A dignitary or parish priest appointed by a bishop to exercise a limited jurisdiction in a particular town or district of a diocese. Addis & Arnold.  -- Vicar-general. (a) (Ch. of Eng.) The deputy of the Archbishop of Canterbury or York, in whose court the bishops of the province are confirmed. Encyc. Brit. (b) (R. C. Ch.) An assistant to a bishop in the discharge of his official functions.  -- Vicar of Jesus Christ (R. C. Ch.), the pope as representing Christ on earth. 

VICARIAN:  A vicar. [Obs.] Marston. 

VICARIATE:  Having delegated power, as a vicar; vicarious. Barrow. 

VICARIATE:  Delegated office or power; vicarship; the office or oversight of a vicar. The vicariate of that part of Germany which is governed by the Saxon laws devolved on the elector of Saxony. Robertson. 

VICARIOUS:  Acting as a substitute; -- said of abnormal action which replaces a suppressed normal function; as, vicarious hemorrhage replacing menstruation. 

VICARIOUSLY:  In a vicarious manner. 

VICARSHIP:  The office or dignity of a vicar. 

VICARY:  A vicar. [Obs.] 

VICE:  A kind of instrument for holding work, as in filing. Same as Vise.  2. A tool for drawing lead into cames, or flat grooved rods, for casements. [Written also vise.]  3. A gripe or grasp. [Obs.] Shak. 

VICE:  To hold or squeeze with a vice, or as if with a vice. Shak. The coachman's hand was viced between his upper and lower thigh. De Quincey. 

VICE:  In the place of; in the stead; as, A. B. was appointed postmaster vice C. D. resigned. 

VICE:  Denoting one who in certain cases may assume the office or duties of a superior; designating an officer or an office that is second in rank or authority; as, vice president; vice agent; vice consul, etc. Vice admiral. Etym: [Cf. F. vice-amiral.] (a) An officer holding rank next below an admiral. By the existing laws, the rank of admiral and vice admiral in the United States Navy will cease at the death of the present incumbents. (b) A civil officer, in Great Britain, appointed by the lords commissioners of the admiralty for exercising admiralty jurisdiction within their respective districts.  -- Vice admiralty, the office of a vice admiral.  -- Vice-admiralty court, a court with admiralty jurisdiction, established by authority of Parliament in British possessions beyond the seas. Abbott.  -- Vice chamberlain, an officer in court next in rank to the lord chamberlain. [Eng.] -- Vice chancellor. (a) (Law) An officer next in rank to a chancellor. (b) An officer in a university, chosen to perform certain duties, as the conferring of degrees, in the absence of the chancellor. (c) (R. C. Ch.) The cardinal at the head of the Roman Chancery.  -- Vice consul Etym: [cf. F. vice-consul], a subordinate officer, authorized to exercise consular functions in some particular part of a district controlled by a consul.  -- Vice king, one who acts in the place of a king; a viceroy.  -- Vice legate Etym: [cf. F. vice-légat], a legate second in rank to, or acting in place of, another legate.  -- Vice presidency, the office of vice president.  -- Vice president Etym: [cf. F. vice-président], an officer next in rank below a president. 

VICED:  Vicious; corrupt. [Obs.] Shak. 

VICEGERENCY:  The office of a vicegerent. South. 

VICEGERENT:  Having or exercising delegated power; acting by substitution, or in the place of another. Milton. 

VICEGERENT:  Having or exercising delegated power; acting by substitution, or in the place of another. Milton. 

VICEGERENT:  An officer who is deputed by a superior, or by proper authority, to exercise the powers of another; a lieutenant; a vicar. Bacon. The symbol and vicegerent of the Deity. C. A. Young. 

VICEMAN:  A smith who works at the vice instead of at the anvil. 

VICENARY:  Of or pertaining to twenty; consisting of twenty. 

VICENNIAL:  Of or pertaining to a viceroy or viceroyalty. Macaulay. 

VICEROY:  A large and handsome American butterfly (Basilarchia, or Limenitis, archippus). Its wings are orange-red, with black lines along the nervures and a row of white spots along the outer margins. The larvæ feed on willow, poplar, and apple trees. 

VICEROYALTY:  The dignity, office, or jurisdiction of a viceroy. 

VICEROYSHIP:  Viceroyalty. 

VICETY:  Fault; defect; coarseness. [Obs.] B. Jonson.  VICHY WATER Vi"chy wa`ter.  A mineral water found at Vichy, France. It is essentially an effervescent solution of sodium, calcium, and magnetism carbonates, with sodium and potassium chlorides; also, by extension, any artificial or natural water resembling in composition the Vichy water proper. Called also, colloquially, Vichy. 

VICIATE:  See Vitiate. [R.] 

VICINAGE:  The place or places adjoining or near; neighborhood; vicinity; as, a jury must be of the vicinage. "To summon the Protestant gentleman of the vicinage." Macaulay. Civil war had broken up all the usual ties of vicinage and good neighborhood. Sir W. Scott. 

VICINAL:  Near; vicine. T. Warton. Vicinal planes (Min.), subordinate planes on a crystal, which are very near to the fundamental planes in angles, and sometimes take their place. They have in general very complex symbols. 

VICINE:  Near; neighboring; vicinal. [R.] Glanvill. 

VICINE:  An alkaloid ex tracted from the seeds of the vetch (Vicia sativa) as a white crystalline substance. 

VICIOSITY:  Vitiosity. [R.] 

VICISSITUDINARY:  Subject to vicissitudes. Donne. 

VICISSITUDINOUS:  Full of, or subject to, changes.  VICISSY DUCK Vi*cis"sy duck`. (Zoöl.)  A West Indian duck, sometimes domesticated.  VICKERS' GUN Vick"ers' gun. (Ordnance)  One of a system of guns manufactured by the firm of Vickers' Sons, at Sheffield, Eng. now included in Vickers-Maxim guns.  VICKERS-MAXIM AUTOMATIC MACHINE GUN Vick"ers-Max"im automatic machine gun.  An automatic machine gun in which the mechanism is worked by the recoil, assisted by the pressure of gases from the muzzle, which expand in a gas chamber against a disk attached to the end of the barrel, thus moving the latter to the rear with increased recoil, and against the front wall of the gas chamber, checking the recoil of the system.  VICKERS-MAXIM GUN Vickers-Maxim gun. (Ordnance)  One of a system of ordnance, including machine, quick-fire, coast, and field guns, of all calibers, manufactured by the combined firms of Vickers' Sons of Sheffield and Maxim of Birmingham and elsewhere, England. 

VICONTIEL:  Of or pertaining to the viscount or sheriff of a country. Vicontiel rents. See Vicontiels.  -- Vicontiel writs, such writs as were triable in the sheriff, or county, court. 

VICONTIELS:  Things belonging to the sheriff; especially, farms (called also vicontiel rents) for which the sheriff used to pay rent to the king. 

VICOUNT:  See Viscount. 

VICTIMATE:  To make a victim of; to sacrifice; to immolate. [Obs.] Bullokar. 

VICTIMIZE:  To make a victim of, esp. by deception; to dupe; to cheat. 

VICTOR:  Victorious. "The victor Greeks." Pope. 

VICTORESS:  A victress. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VICTORIA:  A genus of aquatic plants named in honor of Queen Victoria. The Victoria regia is a native of Guiana and Brazil. Its large, spreading leaves are often over five feet in diameter, and have a rim from three to five inches high; its immense rose-white flowers sometimes attain a diameter of nearly two feet.  2. A kind of low four-wheeled pleasure carriage, with a calash top, designed for two persons and the driver who occupies a high seat in front.  3. (Astron.)  An asteroid discovered by Hind in 1850; -- called also Clio. Victoria cross, a bronze Maltese cross, awarded for valor to members of the British army or navy. It was first bestowed in 1857, at the close of the Crimean war. The recipients also have a pension of £10 a year.  -- Victoria green. (Chem.) See Emerald green, under Green.  -- Victoria lily (Bot.), the Victoria regia. See def. 1, above.  VICTORIA CRAPE Victoria crape.  A kind of cotton crape. 

VICTORIAN:  Of or pertaining to the reign of Queen Victoria of England; as, the Victorian poets. Victorian period. See Dionysian period, under Dyonysian. 

VICTORINE:  A woman's fur tippet. 

VICTORIOUS:  Of or pertaining to victory, or a victor' being a victor; bringing or causing a victory; conquering; winning; triumphant; as, a victorious general; victorious troops; a victorious day. But I shall rise victorious, and subdue My vanquisher. Milton. Now are our brows bound wind victorious wreaths. Shak. -- Vic*to"ri*ous*ly, adv.  -- Vic*to"ri*ous*ness, n. 

VICTORIUM:  A probable chemical element discovered by Sir William Crookes in 1898. Its nitrate is obtained byy practical decomposition and crystallization of yttrium nitrate. At. wt., about 117. 

VICTORY:  The defeat of an enemy in battle, or of an antagonist in any contest; a gaining of the superiority in any struggle or competition; conquest; triumph; -- the opposite of Ant: defeat. Death is swallowed up in victory. 1 Cor. xv. 54. God on our side, doubt not of victory. Shak. Victory may be honorable to the arms, but shameful to the counsels, of a nation. Bolingbroke. 

VICTRESS:  A woman who wins a victory; a female victor. 

VICTRICE:  A victress. [R.] B. Jonson. 

VICTRIX:  Victress. C. Bronté. 

VICTUAL:  To supply with provisions for subsistence; to provide with food; to store with sustenance; as, to victual an army; to victual a ship. I must go victual Orleans forthwith. Shak. 

VICTUALAGE:  Victuals; food. [R.] "With my cargo of victualage." C. Bronté. 

VICTUALING:  Of or pertaining to victuals, or provisions; supplying provisions; as, a victualing ship. 

VICTUALS:  Food for human beings, esp. when it is cooked or prepared for the table; that which supports human life; provisions; sustenance; meat; viands. Then had we plenty of victuals. Jer. xliv. 17. 

VICTUS:  Food; diet.  VICUNA; VICUNYA; VICUGNA Vi*cu"ña, Vi*cu"gna, n. Etym: [Sp. vicuña. Cf. Vigonia.] (Zoöl.)  A South American mammal (Auchenia vicunna) native of the elevated plains of the Andes, allied to the llama but smaller. It has a thick coat of very fine reddish brown wool, and long, pendent white hair on the breast and belly. It is hunted for its wool and flesh.  VIDA FINCH Vid"a finch`. (Zoöl.)  The whidah bird. 

VIDAME:  One of a class of temporal officers who originally represented the bishops, but later erected their offices into fiefs, and became feudal nobles. 

VIDE:  imperative sing. of L. videre, to see; -- used to direct attention to something; as, vide supra, see above. 

VIDELICET:  To wit; namely; -- often abbreviated to viz. 

VIDETTE:  Same Vedette. 

VIDONIA:  A dry white wine, of a tart flavor, produced in Teneriffe; -- called also Teneriffe. 

VIDUAGE:  The state of widows or of widowhood; also, widows, collectively. 

VIDUAL:  Of or pertaining to the state of a widow; widowed. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 

VIDUATION:  The state of being widowed or bereaved; loss; bereavement. [R.] 

VIDUITY:  Widowhood. [R.] "Chaste viduity." Ld. Ellenborough. 

VIE:  A contest for superiority; competition; rivalry; strife; also, a challenge; a wager. [Obs.] We 'll all to church together instantly, And then a vie for boys. J. Fletcher. 

VIELLE:  An old stringed instrument played upon with a wheel; a hurdy- gurdy.  VIENNA PASTE Vi*en"na paste`. (Pharm.)  A caustic application made up of equal parts of caustic potash and quicklime; -- called also Vienna caustic. 

VIENNESE:  Of or pertaining to Vienna, or people of Vienna.  -- n. sing. & pl.  An inhabitant, or the inhabitants, of Vienna. 

VIERKLEUR:  The four-colored flag of the South African Republic, or Transvaal, -- red, white, blue, and green. 

VIEWER:  A person appointed to inspect highways, fences, or the like, and to report upon the same.  3. The superintendent of a coal mine. [Eng.] 

VIEWINESS:  The quality or state of being viewy, or of having unpractical views. 

VIEWLESS:  Not perceivable by the eye; invisible; unseen. "Viewless winds." Shak. Swift through the valves the visionary fair Repassed, and viewless mixed with common air. Pope.  VIEWLY; VIEWSOME View"ly, View"some, a.  Pleasing to the sight; sightly. [Prov. Eng.] 

VIFDA:  In the Orkney and Shetland Islands, beef and mutton hung and dried, but not salted. [Scot.] [Written also vivda.] Jamieson. 

VIGESIMAL:  Twentieth; divided into, or consisting of, twenties or twenty parts. Tylor. 

VIGESIMATION:  The act of putting to death every twentieth man. [R.]  VIGESIMO-QUARTO Vi*ges"i*mo-quar"to, a. Etym: [L. vigesimus quartus twenty-fourth. Cf. Duodecimo.]  Having twenty-four leaves to a sheet; as, a vigesimo-quarto form, book, leaf, size, etc.  VIGESIMO-QUARTO Vi*ges"i*mo-quar"to, n.; pl. -tos (.  A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into twenty- four leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 24mo, or 24º. 

VIGILANCY:  Vigilance. [Obs.] Fuller. 

VIGILANT:  Attentive to discover and avoid danger, or to provide for safety; wakeful; watchful; circumspect; wary. "Be sober, be vigilant." 1 Pet. v. 8. Sirs, take your places, and be vigilant. Shak. 

VIGILANTLY:  In a vigilant manner. 

VIGILY:  A vigil. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VIGINTIVIRATE:  The office of the vigintiviri, a body of officers of government consisting of twenty men; also, the vigintiviri. [R.] 

VIGNETTE:  A running ornament consisting of leaves and tendrils, used in Gothic architecture.  2. A decorative design, originally representing vine branches or tendrils, at the head of a chapter, of a manuscript or printed book, or in a similar position; hence, by extension, any small picture in a book; hence, also, as such pictures are often without a definite bounding line, any picture, as an engraving, a photograph, or the like, which vanishes gradually at the edge. 

VIGNETTE:  To make, as an engraving or a photograph, with a border or edge insensibly fading away. 

VIGONIA:  Of or pertaining to the vicuña; characterizing the vicuña; -- said of the wool of that animal, used in felting hats, and for other purposes. Prescott. 

VIGOR:  To invigorate. [Obs.] Feltham. 

VIGORITE:  An explosive containing nitroglycerin. It is used in blasting. 

VIGOROSO:  Vigorous; energetic; with energy; -- a direction to perform a passage with energy and force. 

VIKING:  One belonging to the pirate crews from among the Northmen, who plundered the coasts of Europe in the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries. Of grim Vikings, and the rapture Of the sea fight, and the capture, And the life of slavery. Longfellow.  Note: Vikings differs in meaning from sea king, with which frequently confounded. "The sea king was a man connected with a royal race, either of the small kings of the country, or of the Haarfager family, and who, by right, received the title of king as soon he took the command of men, although only of a single ship's crew, and without having any land or kingdom . . . Vikings were merely pirates, alternately peasants and pirates, deriving the name of viking from the vicks, wicks, or inlets, on the coast in which they harbored with their long ships or rowing galleys." Laing. 

VILANY:  Villainy. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VILAYET:  One of the chief administrative divisions or provinces of the Ottoman Empire; -- formerly called eyalet. 

VILD:  Vile. [Obs.] "That vild race." Spenser.  -- Vild"ly, adv. [Obs.] Spenser. 

VILED:  Abusive; scurrilous; defamatory; vile. [Obs.] "Viled speeches." Hayward. 

VILEYNS:  Villainous. [Obs.] "Vileyns sinful deeds make a churl." Chaucer. 

VILIFICATION:  The act of vilifying or defaming; abuse. South. 

VILIFIER:  One who vilifies or defames. 

VILIPEND:  To value lightly; to depreciate; to slight; to despise. To vilipend the art of portrait painting. Longfellow. 

VILIPENDENCY:  Disesteem; slight; disparagement. [R.] E. Waterhouse. 

VILITY:  Vileness; baseness. [Obs.] Kennet. 

VILL:  A small collection of houses; a village. "Every manor, town, or vill." Sir M. Hale. Not should e'er the crested fowl From thorp or vill his matins sound for me. Wordsworth.  Note: A word of various significations in English, law; as, a manor; a tithing; a town; a township; a parish; a part of a parish; a village. The original meaning of vill, in England, seems to have been derived from the Roman sense of the term villa, a single country residence or farm; a manor. Later, the term was applied only to a collection of houses more than two, and hence came to comprehend towns. Burrill. The statute of Exeter, 14 Edward I., mentions entire- vills, demivills, and hamlets. 

VILLA:  A country seat; a country or suburban residence of some pretensions to elegance. Dryden. Cowper. 

VILLAGE:  A small assemblage of houses in the country, less than a town or city. Village cart, a kind of two-wheeled pleasure carriage without a top.  Syn.  -- Village, Hamlet, Town, City. In England, a hamlet denotes a collection of houses, too small to have a parish church. A village has a church, but no market. A town has both a market and a church or churches. A city is, in the legal sense, an incorporated borough town, which is, or has been, the place of a bishop's see. In the United States these distinctions do not hold. 

VILLAGER:  An inhabitant of a village. Brutus had rather be a villager Than to repute himself a son of Rome Under these hard condition. Shak. 

VILLAGERY:  Villages; a district of villages. [Obs.] "The maidens of the villagery." Shak. 

VILLAIN:  One who holds lands by a base, or servile, tenure, or in villenage; a feudal tenant of the lowest class, a bondman or servant. [In this sense written also villan, and villein.] If any of my ansectors was a tenant, and a servant, and held his lands as a villain to his lord, his posterity also must do so, though accidentally they become noble. Jer. Taylor.  Note: Villains were of two sorts; villains regardant, that is, annexed to the manor (LL. adscripti glebæ); and villains in gross, that is, annexed to the person of their lord, and transferable from one to another. Blackstone.  2. A baseborn or clownish person; a boor. [R.] Pour the blood of the villain in one basin, and the blood of the gentleman in another, what difference shall there be proved Becon.  3. A vile, wicked person; a man extremely depraved, and capable or guilty of great crimes; a deliberate scoundrel; a knave; a rascal; a scamp. Like a villain with a smiling cheek. Shak. Calm, thinking villains, whom no faith could fix. Pope. 

VILLAIN:  Villainous. [R.] Shak. 

VILLAIN:  To debase; to degrade. [Obs.] Sir T. More. 

VILLAKIN:  A little villa. [R.] Gay. 

VILLAN:  A villain. [R.] 

VILLANAGE:  The state of a villain, or serf; base servitude; tenure on condition of doing the meanest services for the lord. [In this sense written also villenage, and villeinage.] I speak even now as if sin were condemned in a perpetual villanage, never to be manumitted. Milton. Some faint traces of villanage were detected by the curious so late as the days of the Stuarts. Macaulay.  2. Baseness; infamy; villainy. [Obs.] Dryden. 

VILLANEL:  A ballad. [Obs.] Cotton. 

VILLANELLA:  An old rustic dance, accompanied with singing. 

VILLANELLE:  A poem written in tercets with but two rhymes, the first and third verse of the first stanza alternating as the third verse in each successive stanza and forming a couplet at the close. E. W. Gosse. 

VILLANETTE:  A small villa. [R.] 

VILLANIZE:  To make vile; to debase; to degrade; to revile. [R.] Were virtue by descent, a noble name Could never villanize his father's fame. Dryden. 

VILLANIZER:  One who villanizes. [R.]  VILLANOUS; VILLANOUSLY; VILLANOUSNESS Vil"lan*ous, a. Vil"lan*ous*ly, adv., Vil"lan*ous*ness, n.,  See Villainous, etc. 

VILLANY:  See Villainy. 

VILLATIC:  Of or pertaining to a farm or a village; rural. "Tame villatic fowl." Milton. 

VILLEIN:  See Villain, 1. 

VILLENAGE:  Villanage. Blackstone. 

VILLENOUS:  Of or pertaining to a villein. 

VILLI:  , pl. of Villus. 

VILLIFORM:  Having the form or appearance of villi; like close-set fibers, either hard or soft; as, the teeth of perch are villiform. 

VILLOSE:  See Villous. 

VILLOSITY:  A coating of long, slender hairs.  3. (Anat.)  A villus. 

VILLOUS:  Furnished or clothed with villi. 

VILLUS:  One of the minute papillary processes on certain vascular membranes; a villosity; as, villi cover the lining of the small intestines of many animals and serve to increase the absorbing surface.  2. pl. (Bot.)  Fine hairs on plants, resembling the pile of velvet. 

VIM:  Power; force; energy; spirit; activity; vigor. [Colloq.] 

VIMEN:  A long, slender, flexible shoot or branch. 

VIMINAL:  Of or pertaining to twigs; consisting of twigs; producing twigs. 

VIMINEOUS:  Producing long, slender twigs or shoots. 

VINAIGRETTE:  A sauce, made of vinegar, oil, and other ingredients, -- used esp. for cold meats.  2. A small perforated box for holding aromatic vinegar contained in a sponge, or a smelling bottle for smelling salts; -- called also vinegarette.  3. A small, two-wheeled vehicle, like a Bath chair, to be drawn or pushed by a boy or man. [R.] 

VINASSE:  The waste liquor remaining in the process of making beet sugar, -- used in the manufacture of potassium carbonate. 

VINATICO:  Madeira mahogany; the coarse, dark-colored wood of the Persea Indica. 

VINCENTIAN:  Of or pertaining to Saint Vincent de Paul, or founded by him. [R.] 

VINCETOXIN:  A glucoside extracted from the root of the white swallowwort (Vincetoxicum officinale, a plant of the Asclepias family) as a bitter yellow amorphous substance; -- called also asclepiadin, and cynanchin. 

VINCIBILITY:  The quality or state of being vincible, vincibleness. 

VINCIBLE:  Capable of being overcome or subdued; conquerable. "He, not vincible in spirit . . . drew his sword." Hayward. "Vincible by human aid." Paley. Vincible ignorance (Theol.), ignorance within the individual's control and for which, therefore, he is responsible before God. 

VINCIBLENESS:  The quality or state of being vincible. 

VINCTURE:  A binding. [Obs.] 

VINCULUM:  A straight, horizontal mark placed over two or more members of a compound quantity, which are to be subjected to the same operation, as in the expression x2 + y2 - x + y.  3. (Anat.)  A band or bundle of fibers; a frænum.  4. (Zoöl.)  A commissure uniting the two main tendons in the foot of certain birds. 

VINDEMIAL:  Of or pertaining to a vintage, or grape harvest. [R.] 

VINDEMIATE:  To gather the vintage. [Obs.] Evelyn. 

VINDEMIATION:  The operation of gathering grapes. [Obs.] Bailey. 

VINDICABLE:  Capable of being vindicated.  -- Vin`di*ca*bil"i*ty, n. 

VINDICATION:  The claiming a thing as one's own; the asserting of a right or title in, or to, a thing. Burrill. 

VINDICATOR:  One who vindicates; one who justifies or maintains. Locke. 

VINEAL:  Of or pertaining to vines; containing vines. [R.] Sir T. Browne.  VINE-CLAD Vine"-clad`, a.  Covered with vines. 

VINED:  Having leaves like those of the vine; ornamented with vine leaves. "Vined and figured columns." Sir H. Wotton. 

VINEDRESSER:  One who cultivates, prunes, or cares for, grapevines; a laborer in a vineyard. The sons of the shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers. Isa. lxi. 5. 

VINEGAR:  To convert into vinegar; to make like vinegar; to render sour or sharp. [Obs.] Hoping that he hath vinegared his senses As he was bid. B. Jonson. 

VINEGARETTE:  See Vinaigrette, n., 2.  VINEGAR FLY Vin"e*gar fly.  Any of several fruit flies, esp. Drosophila ampelopophila, which breed in imperfectly sealed preserves and in pickles. 

VINEGARROON:  A whip scorpion, esp. a large Mexican species (Thelyphonus giganteus) popularly supposed to be very venomous; -- from the odor that it emits when alarmed. 

VINEGARY:  Having the nature of vinegar; sour; unamiable. 

VINER:  A vinedresser. [Obs.] 

VINETTE:  A sprig or branch. [Archaic] Halliwell. 

VINEWED:  Same as Vinnewed. 

VINEYARD:  An inclosure or yard for grapevines; a plantation of vines producing grapes. 

VINEYARDIST:  One who cultivates a vineyard.  VINGT ET UN Vingt` et` un". Etym: [F., twenty and one.]  A game at cards, played by two or more persons. The fortune of each player depends upon obtaining from the dealer such cards that the sum of their pips, or spots, is twenty-one, or a number near to it. 

VINGTUN:  Contraction for Vingt et un. 

VINIC:  Of or pertaining to wine; as, vinic alcohol. 

VINICULTURE:  The cultivation of the vine, esp. for making wine; viticulture. 

VINIFICATION:  The conversion of a fruit juice or other saccharine solution into alcohol by fermentation. 

VINNEWED:  Moldy; musty. [Written also vinewed.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] -- Vin"newed*ness, n. [Obs.] Many of Chaucer's words are become, as it were, vinnewed and hoary with over-long lying. F. Beaumont. 

VINNY:  Vinnewed. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

VINOLENCY:  Drunkennes. [Obs.] 

VINOLENT:  Given to wine; drunken; intemperate. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VINOMETER:  An instrument for determining the strength or purity of wine by measuring its density.  VIN ORDINAIRE Vin` or`di`naire". Etym: [F., lit., common wine.]  A cheap claret, used as a table wine in France. 

VINOSE:  Vinous. 

VINOSITY:  The quality or state of being vinous. 

VINOUS:  Of or pertaining to wine; having the qualities of wine; as, a vinous taste. 

VINQUISH:  See Vanquish, n. 

VINTAGER:  One who gathers the vintage. 

VINTAGING:  The act of gathering the vintage, or crop of grapes. 

VINTNER:  One who deals in wine; a wine seller, or wine merchant. 

VINTRY:  A place where wine is sold. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

VINUM:  Wine, --chiefly used in Pharmacy in the name of solutions of some medicinal substance in wine; as: vina medicata, medicated wines; vinum opii, wine of opium. 

VINY:  Of or pertaining to vines; producing, or abounding in, vines. P. Fletcher. 

VINYL:  The hypothetical radical C2H3, regarded as the characteristic residue of ethylene and that related series of unsaturated hydrocarbons with which the allyl compounds are homologous. 

VIOL:  A stringed musical instrument formerly in use, of the same form as the violin, but larger, and having six strings, to be struck with a bow, and the neck furnished with frets for stopping the strings. Me softer airs befit, and softer strings Of lute, or viol still, more apt for mournful things. Milton.  Note: The name is now applied as a general term to designate instruments of the violin kind, as tenor viol, bass viol, etc.  2. (Naut.)  A large rope sometimes used in weighing anchor. [Written also voyal, and voyal.] Totten. 

VIOLA:  A genus of polypetalous herbaceous plants, including all kinds of violets. 

VIOLA:  An instrument in form and use resembling the violin, but larger, and a fifth lower in compass. Viola da braccio Etym: [It., viol for the arm], the tenor viol, or viola, a fifth lower than the violin. Its part is written in the alto clef, hence it is sometimes called the alto.  -- Viola da gamba Etym: [It., viol for the leg], an instrument resembling the viola, but larger, and held between the knees. It is now rarely used.  -- Viola da spalla Etym: [It., viol for the shoulder], an instrument formerly used, resembling the viola, and intermediate in size between the viola and the viola da gamba.  -- Viola di amore Etym: [It., viol of love: cf. F. viole d'amour], a viol, larger than the viola, having catgut strings upon, and brass or steel wires under, the keyboard. These, sounding sympathetically with the strings, yield a peculiarly soft and silvery sound. It is now seldom used. 

VIOLABLE:  Capable of being violated, broken, or injured.  -- Vi"o*la*bly, adv. 

VIOLACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants, of which the violet is the type. It contains about twenty genera and two hundred and fifty species. 

VIOLANILINE:  A dyestuff of the induline group, made from aniline, and used as a substitute for indigo in dyeing wool and silk a violet-blue or a gray-blue color. 

VIOLANTIN:  A complex nitrogenous substance, produced as a yellow crystalline substance, and regarded as a complex derivative of barbituric acid. 

VIOLAQUERCITRIN:  A yellow crystalline glucoside obtained from the pansy (Viola tricolor), and decomposing into glucose and quercitrin. 

VIOLASCENT:  Violescent. [R.] 

VIOLATION:  The act of violating, treating with violence, or injuring; the state of being violated. Specifically: -- (a) Infringement; transgression; nonobservance; as, the violation of law or positive command, of covenants, promises, etc. "The violation of my faith." Shak. (b) An act of irreverence or desecration; profanation or contemptuous treatment of sacred things; as, the violation of a church. Udall. (c) Interruption, as of sleep or peace; disturbance. (d) Ravishment; rape; outrage. Shak. 

VIOLATIVE:  Violating, or tending to violate. 

VIOLATOR:  One who violates; an infringer; a profaner; a ravisher. 

VIOLE:  A vial. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VIOLENCE:  To assault; to injure; also, to bring by violence; to compel. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

VIOLENT:  An assailant. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 

VIOLENT:  To urge with violence. [Obs.] Fuller. 

VIOLENT:  To be violent; to act violently. [Obs.] The grief is fine, full, perfect, that I taste, An violenteth in a sense as strong As that which causeth it. Shak. 

VIOLENTLY:  In a violent manner. 

VIOLESCENT:  Tending to a violet color; violascent. 

VIOLET:  Any plant or flower of the genus Viola, of many species. The violets are generally low, herbaceous plants, and the flowers of many of the species are blue, while others are white or yellow, or of several colors, as the pansy (Viola tricolor).  Note: The cultivated sweet violet is Viola odorata of Europe. The common blue violet of the eastern United States is V. cucullata; the sand, or bird-foot, violet is V. pedata.  2. The color of a violet, or that part of the spectrum farthest from red. It is the most refrangible part of the spectrum.  3. In art, a color produced by a combination of red and blue in equal proportions; a bluish purple color. Mollett.  4. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of small violet-colored butterflies belonging to Lycæna, or Rusticus, and allied genera.  Corn violet. See under Corn.  -- Dame's violet. (Bot.) See Damewort.  -- Dogtooth violet. (Bot.) See under Dogtooth.  -- Water violet (Bot.), an aquatic European herb (Hottonia palustris) with pale purplish flowers and pinnatifid leaves. 

VIOLET:  Dark blue, inclining to red; bluish purple; having a color produced by red and blue combined. Violet shell (Zoöl.), any species of Ianthina; -- called also violet snail. See Lanthina.  -- Violet wood, a name given to several kinds of hard purplish or reddish woods, as king wood, myall wood, and the wood of the Andira violacea, a tree of Guiana.  VIOLET-EAR Vi"o*let-ear`, n.  Any tropical humming bird of the genus Petasophora, having violet or purplish ear tufts.  VIOLET-TIP Vi"o*let-tip", n. (Zoöl.)  A very handsome American butterfly (Polygonia interrogationis). Its wings are mottled with various shades of red and brown and have violet tips. 

VIOLIN:  A small instrument with four strings, played with a bow; a fiddle.  Note: The violin is distinguished for the brilliancy and gayety, as well as the power and variety, of its tones, and in the orchestra it is the leading and most important instrument. 

VIOLINIST:  A player on the violin. 

VIOLIST:  A player on the viol. 

VIOLONCELLIST:  A player on the violoncello. 

VIOLONCELLO:  A stringed instrument of music; a bass viol of four strings, or a bass violin with long, large strings, giving sounds an octave lower than the viola, or tenor or alto violin. 

VIOLONE:  The largest instrument of the bass-viol kind, having strings tuned an octave below those of the violoncello; the contrabasso; -- called also double bass. [Written also violono.] 

VIOLOUS:  Violent. [Obs.] J. Fletcher. 

VIOLURIC:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitroso derivative of barbituric acid. It is obtained as a white or yellow crystalline substance, and forms characteristic yellow, blue, and violet salts. 

VIPER:  Any one of numerous species of Old World venomous makes belonging to Vipera, Clotho, Daboia, and other genera of the family Viperidæ. There came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand. Acts xxviii. 3.  Note: Among the best-known species are the European adder (Pelias berus), the European asp (Vipera aspis), the African horned viper (V. cerastes), and the Indian viper (Daboia Russellii).  2. A dangerous, treacherous, or malignant person. Who committed To such a viper his most sacred trust Of secrecy. Milton. Horned viper. (Zoöl.) See Cerastes.  -- Red viper (Zoöl.), the copperhead.  -- Viper fish (Zoöl.), a small, slender, phosphorescent deep-sea fish (Chauliodus Sloanii). It has long ventral and dorsal fins, a large mouth, and very long, sharp teeth.  -- Viper's bugloss (Bot.), a rough-leaved biennial herb (Echium vulgare) having showy purplish blue flowers. It is sometimes cultivated, but has become a pestilent weed in fields from New York to Virginia. Also called blue weed.  -- Viper's grass (Bot.), a perennial composite herb (Scorzonera Hispanica) with narrow, entire leaves, and solitary heads of yellow flowers. The long, white, carrot-shaped roots are used for food in Spain and some other countries. Called also viper grass. 

VIPERINA:  See Viperoidea. 

VIPERINE:  Of or pertaining to a viper or vipers; resembling a viper. Viperine snake. (Zoöl.) (a) Any venomous snake of the family Viperidæ. (b) A harmless snake resembling a viper in form or color, esp. Tropidonotus viperinus, a small European species which resembles the viper in color. 

VIPERISH:  Somewhat like a viper; viperous. 

VIPEROID:  Like or pertaining to the vipers.  VIPEROIDEA; VIPEROIDES Vi`per*oi"de*a, Vi`per*oi"des, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Viper, and - oid.] (Zoöl.)  A division of serpents which includes the true vipers of the Old World and the rattlesnakes and moccasin snakes of America; -- called also Viperina. 

VIPEROUS:  Having the qualities of a viper; malignant; venomous; as, a viperous tongue. "This viperous slander." Shak.  -- Vi"per*ous*ly, adv. 

VIRAGINIAN:  Of or pertaining to a virago; having the qualities of a virago. Milton. 

VIRAGINITY:  The qualities or characteristics of a virago. 

VIRE:  An arrow, having a rotary motion, formerly used with the crossbow. Cf. Vireton. Gower. 

VIRELAY:  An ancient French song, or short poem, wholly in two rhymes, and composed in short lines, with a refrain. Of such matter made he many lays, Songs, complains, roundels, virelayes. Chaucer. To which a lady sung a virelay. Dryden.  Note: "The virelay admitted only two rhymes, and, after employing one for some time, the poet was virer, or to turn, to the other." Nares. 

VIRENT:  Green; not withered. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

VIREO:  Any one of numerous species of American singing birds belonging to Vireo and allied genera of the family Vireonidæ. In many of the species the back is greenish, or olive-colored. Called also greenlet.  Note: In the Eastern United States the most common species are the white-eyed vireo (Vireo Noveboracensis), the redeyed vireo (V. olivaceus), the blue-headed, or solitary, vireo (V. solitarius), the warbling vireo (V. gilvus), and the yellow-throated vireo (V. flavifrons). All these are noted for the sweetness of their songs. 

VIRESCENCE:  The act or state of becoming green through the formation of chlorophyll. 

VIRESCENT:  Beginning to be green; slightly green; greenish. 

VIRETON:  An arrow or bolt for a crossbow having feathers or brass placed at an angle with the shaft to make it spin in flying. 

VIRGALIEU:  A valuable kind of pear, of an obovate shape and with melting flesh of delicious flavor; -- more properly called White Doyenné. [Written also virgaloo, vergalieu, vergaloo, etc.] 

VIRGATE:  Having the form of a straight rod; wand-shaped; straight and slender. 

VIRGATE:  A yardland, or measure of land varying from fifteen to forty acres. [Obs.] T. Warton. 

VIRGATED:  Striped; streaked. [Obs.] 

VIRGE:  A wand. See Verge. [Obs.] 

VIRGER:  See Verger. [Obs.] 

VIRGILIAN:  Of or pertaining to Virgil, the Roman poet; resembling the style of Virgil. [Spelt also Vergilian.] The rich Virgilian rustic measure Of Lari Maxume. Tennyson. 

VIRGIN:  See Virgo.  4. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of gossamer-winged butterflies of the family Lycænidæ.  5. (Zoöl.)  A female insect producing eggs from which young are hatched, though there has been no fecundation by a male; a parthenogenetic insect. The Virgin, or The Blessed Virgin, the Virgin Mary, the Mother of our Lord.  -- Virgin's bower (Bot.), a name given to several climbing plants of the genus Clematis, as C. Vitalba of Europe, and C. Virginiana of North America. 

VIRGIN:  To act the virgin; to be or keep chaste; -- followed by it. See It, 5. [Obs.] "My true lip hath virgined it e'er since [that kiss]." Shak. 

VIRGINAL:  Of or pertaining to a virgin; becoming a virgin; maidenly. "Chastity and honor virginal." Spenser. Virginal generation (Biol.), parthenogenesis.  -- Virginal membrane (Anat.), the hymen. 

VIRGINAL:  An instrument somewhat resembling the spinet, but having a rectangular form, like the small piano. It had strings and keys, but only one wire to a note. The instrument was used in the sixteenth century, but is now wholly obsolete. It was sometimes called a pair of virginals. 

VIRGINAL:  To play with the fingers, as if on a virginal; to tap or pat. [Obs.] "Still virginaling upon his palm!" Shak. 

VIRGINHOOD:  Virginity; maidenhood. 

VIRGINIA:  One of the States of the United States of America.  -- a.  Of or pertaining to the State of Virginia. Virginia cowslip (Bot.), the American lungwort (Mertensia Virginica).  -- Virginia creeper (Bot.), a common ornamental North American woody vine (Ampelopsis quinquefolia), climbing extensively by means of tendrils; -- called also woodbine, and American ivy. [U.S.] -- Virginia fence. See Worm fence, under Fence.  -- Virginia nightingale (Zoöl.), the cardinal bird. See under Cardinal.  -- Virginia quail (Zoöl.), the bobwhite.  -- Virginia reel, an old English contradance; -- so called in the United States. Bartlett.  -- Virginia stock. (Bot.) See Mahon stock. 

VIRGOULEUSE:  An old French variety of pear, of little value. 

VIRGULARIAN:  Any one of numerous species of long, slender Alcyonaria belonging to Virgularia and allied genera of the family Virgularidæ. These corals are allied to the sea-pens, but have a long rodlike rhachis inclosing a slender, round or square, calcareous axis. The polyps are arranged in transverse rows or clusters along each side of the rhachis. 

VIRGULATE:  Shaped like a little twig or rod. 

VIRGULE:  A comma. [R.] In the MSS. of Chaucer, the line is always broken by a cæsura in the middle, which is pointed by a virgule. Hallam. 

VIRIAL:  A certain function relating to a system of forces and their points of application, -- first used by Clausius in the investigation of problems in molecular physics. 

VIRID:  Green. [Obs.] The virid marjoram Her sparkling beauty did but see. Crompton. 

VIRIDESCENCE:  Quality or state of being viridescent. 

VIRIDESCENT:  Slightly green; greenish. 

VIRIDINE:  A greenish, oily, nitrogenous hydrocarbon, C12H19N7, obtained from coal tar, and probably consisting of a mixture of several metameric compounds which are higher derivatives of the base pyridine. 

VIRIDITE:  A greenish chloritic mineral common in certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as a result of alternation. 

VIRIDNESS:  Viridity; greenness. 

VIRILE:  Having the nature, properties, or qualities, of an adult man; characteristic of developed manhood; hence, masterful; forceful; specifically, capable of begetting; -- opposed to womanly, feminine, and puerile; as, virile age, virile power, virile organs. 

VIRILITY:  The quality or state of being virile; developed manhood; manliness; specif., the power of procreation; as, exhaustion. "Virility of visage." Holland. 

VIRIPOTENT:  Developed in manhood; hence, able to beget; marriageable. [Obs.] Being not of ripe years, not viripotent. Holinshed. 

VIRMILION:  See Vermilion. [R.] 

VIROLE:  A ring surrounding a bugle or hunting horn. 

VIROLED:  Furnished with a virole or viroles; -- said of a horn or a bugle when the rings are of different tincture from the rest of the horn. 

VIROSE:  Having a nauseous odor; fetid; poisonous. [R.] 

VIRTU:  A love of the fine arts; a taste for curiosities. J. Spence. An article, or piece, of virtu, an object of art or antiquity; a curiosity, such as those found in museums or private collections. I had thoughts, in my chambers to place it in view, To be shown to my friends as a piece of virtù. Goldsmith. 

VIRTUALLY:  In a virtual manner; in efficacy or effect only, and not actually; to all intents and purposes; practically. 

VIRTUATE:  To make efficacious; to give virtue of efficacy. [Obs.] Harvey. 

VIRTUE:  One of the orders of the celestial hierarchy. Thrones, dominations, princedoms, virtues, powers. Milton. Cardinal virtues. See under Cardinal, a.  -- In, or By, virtue of, through the force of; by authority of. "He used to travel through Greece by virtue of this fable, which procured him reception in all the towns." Addison. "This they shall attain, partly in virtue of the promise made by God, and partly in virtue of piety." Atterbury.  -- Theological virtues, the three virtues, faith, hope, and charity. See 1 Cor. xiii. 13. 

VIRTUELESS:  Destitute of virtue; without efficacy or operating qualities; powerless. Virtueless she wished all herbs and charms. Fairfax. 

VIRTUOSO:  A performer on some instrument, as the violin or the piano, who excels in the technical part of his art; a brilliant concert player. 

VIRTUOSOSHIP:  The condition, pursuits, or occupation of a virtuoso. Bp. Hurd. 

VIRULENTED:  Made virulent; poisoned. [Obs.] 

VIRULENTLY:  In a virulent manner. 

VISA:  See Vis. 

VISA:  To indorse, after examination, with the word visé, as a passport; to visé. 

VISAGE:  The face, countenance, or look of a person or an animal; -- chiefly applied to the human face. Chaucer. "A visage of demand." Shak. His visage was so marred more than any man. Isa. lii. 14. Love and beauty still that visage grace. Waller. 

VISAGE:  To face. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VISAGED:  Having a visage. Shak. 

VISARD:  A mask. See Visor. 

VISARD:  To mask.  VIS-A-VIS Vis`-a-vis", n. Etym: [F., opposite, face to face.]  1. One who, or that which, is face to face with another; esp., one who faces another in dancing.  2. A carriage in which two persons sit face to face. Also, a form of sofa with seats for two persons, so arranged that the occupants are face to face while sitting on opposite sides.  VIS-A-VIS Vis`-a-vis", adv.  Face to face. 

VISAYAN:  A member of the most numerous of the native races of the Philippines, occupying the Visayan Islands and the northern coast Mindanao; also, their language. The Visayans possessed a native culture and alphabet.  VISCACHA; VIZ-CACHA Vis*ca"cha, Viz-ca"cha (, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Zoöl.)  A large burrowing South American rodent (Lagostomus trichodactylus) allied to the chinchillas, but much larger. Its fur is soft and rather long, mottled gray above, white or yellowish white beneath. There is a white band across the muzzle, and a dark band on each cheek. It inhabits grassy plains, and is noted for its extensive burrows and for heaping up miscellaneous articles at the mouth of its burrows. Called also biscacha, bizcacha, vischacha, vishatscha. 

VISCERA:  pl. of Viscus. 

VISCERAL:  Of or pertaining to the viscera; splanchnic.  2. Fig.: Having deep sensibility. [R.] Bp. Reynolds. Visceral arches (Anat.), the bars or ridges between the visceral clefts.  -- Visceral cavity or tube (Anat.), the ventral cavity of a vertebrate, which contains the alimentary canal, as distinguished from the dorsal, or cerebro-spinal, canal.  -- Visceral clefts (Anat.), transverse clefts on the sides just back of the mouth in the vertebrate embryo, which open into the pharyngeal portion of the alimentary canal, and correspond to the branchial clefts in adult fishes. 

VISCERATE:  To deprive of the viscera, or entrails; to eviscerate; to disembowel. 

VISCEROSKELETAL:  Of or pertaining to the framework, or skeleton, or skeleton, of the viscera; as, the visceroskeletal system of muscles. Mivart. 

VISCID:  Sticking or adhering, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscous; glutinous; sticky; tenacious; clammy; as, turpentine, tar, gums, etc., are more or less viscid. 

VISCIDITY:  The quality or state of being viscid; also, that which is viscid; glutinous concretion; stickiness. 

VISCIN:  A clear, viscous, tasteless substance extracted from the mucilaginous sap of the mistletoe (Viscum album), holly, etc., and constituting an essential ingredient of birdlime. 

VISCOIDAL:  Somewhat viscous. Cf. Mobile, a., 2. 

VISCOSIMETER:  An instrument for measuring the degree of viscosity of liquids, as solutions of gum. 

VISCOSITY:  A quality analogous to that of a viscous fluid, supposed to be caused by internal friction, especially in the case of gases. 

VISCOUNT:  An officer who formerly supplied the place of the count, or earl; the sheriff of the county.  2. A nobleman of the fourth rank, next in order below an earl and next above a baron; also, his degree or title of nobility. See Peer, n., 3. [Eng.] Chaucer. 

VISCOUNTCY:  The dignity or jurisdiction of a viscount. Sir B. Burke. 

VISCOUNTESS:  The wife of a viscount.  VISCOUNTSHIP; VISCOUNTY Vis"count`ship, Vis"count`y, n. Etym: [F. vicomté.]  The quality, rank, or office of a viscount. 

VISCOUS:  Adhesive or sticky, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscid; glutinous; clammy; tenacious; as, a viscous juice.  -- Vis"cous*ness, n.  Note: There is no well-defined distinction in meaning between viscous and viscid. 

VISCUM:  A genus of parasitic shrubs, including the mistletoe of Europe.  2. Birdlime, which is often made from the berries of the European mistletoe. 

VISCUS:  One of the organs, as the brain, heart, or stomach, in the great cavities of the body of an animal; -- especially used in the plural, and applied to the organs contained in the abdomen. 

VISE:  An instrument consisting of two jaws, closing by a screw, lever, cam, or the like, for holding work, as in filing. [Written also vice.] 

VISE:  An indorsement made on a passport by the proper authorities of certain countries on the continent of Europe, denoting that it has been examined, and that the person who bears it is permitted to proceed on his journey; a visa. 

VISE:  To examine and indorse, as a passport; to visa. 

VISHNU:  A divinity of the modern Hindoo trimurti, or trinity. He is regarded as the preserver, while Brahma is the creator, and Siva the destroyer of the creation. 

VISIBILITY:  The quality or state of being visible. 

VISIBLE:  A system of characters invented by Prof. Alexander Melville Bell to represent all sounds that may be uttered by the speech organs, and intended to be suggestive of the position of the organs of speech in uttering them. 

VISIGOTH:  One of the West Goths. See the Note under Goth.  -- Vis`i*goth"ic, a. 

VISION:  The faculty of seeing; sight; one of the five senses, by which colors and the physical qualities of external objects are appreciated as a result of the stimulating action of light on the sensitive retina, an expansion of the optic nerve.  3. That which is seen; an object of sight. Shak.  4. Especially, that which is seen otherwise than by the ordinary sight, or the rational eye; a supernatural, prophetic, or imaginary sight; an apparition; a phantom; a specter; as, the visions of Isaiah. The baseless fabric of this vision. Shak. No dreams, but visions strange. Sir P. Sidney.  5. Hence, something unreal or imaginary; a creation of fancy. Locke. Arc of vision (Astron.), the arc which measures the least distance from the sun at which, when the sun is below the horizon, a star or planet emerging from his rays becomes visible.  -- Beatific vision (Theol.), the immediate sight of God in heaven.  -- Direct vision (Opt.), vision when the image of the object falls directly on the yellow spot (see under Yellow); also, vision by means of rays which are not deviated from their original direction.  -- Field of vision, field of view. See under Field.  -- Indirect vision (Opt.), vision when the rays of light from an object fall upon the peripheral parts of the retina.  -- Reflected vision, or Refracted vision, vision by rays reflected from mirrors, or refracted by lenses or prisms, respectively.  -- Vision purple. (Physiol.) See Visual purple, under Visual. 

VISION:  To see in a vision; to dream. For them no visioned terrors daunt, Their nights no fancied specters haunt. Sir W. Scott. 

VISIONAL:  Of or pertaining to a vision. 

VISIONARINESS:  The quality or state of being visionary. 

VISIONED:  Having the power of seeing visions; inspired; also, seen in visions. [R.] Shelley. 

VISIONIST:  A visionary. 

VISIONLESS:  Destitute of vision; sightless. 

VISIT:  To come to for the purpose of chastising, rewarding, comforting; to come upon with reward or retribution; to appear before or judge; as, to visit in mercy; to visit one in wrath. [God] hath visited and redeemed his people. Like i. 68. 

VISIT:  To make a visit or visits; to maintain visiting relations; to practice calling on others. 

VISITABLE:  Liable or subject to be visited or inspected. "All hospitals built since the Reformation are visitable by the king or lord chancellor." Ayliffe. 

VISITANT:  One who visits; a guest; a visitor. When the visitant comes again, he is no more a stranger. South. 

VISITANT:  Visiting. Wordsworth. 

VISITATION:  The act of a naval commander who visits, or enters on board, a vessel belonging to another nation, for the purpose of ascertaining her character and object, but without claiming or exercising a right of searching the vessel. It is, however, usually coupled with the right of search (see under Search), visitation being used for the purpose of search.  5. Special dispensation; communication of divine favor and goodness, or, more usually, of divine wrath and vengeance; retributive calamity; retribution; judgment. What will ye do in the day of visitation Isa. x. 3.  6. (Eccl.)  A festival in honor of the visit of the Virgin Mary to Elisabeth, mother of John the Baptist, celebrated on the second of July. The Order of the Visitation of Our Lady (R. C. Ch.), a religious community of nuns, founded at Annecy, in Savoy, in 1610, and in 1808 established in the United States. In America these nuns are devoted to the education of girls. 

VISITATORIAL:  Of or pertaining to visitation, or a judicial visitor or superintendent; visitorial. An archdeacon has visitatorial power. Ayliffe. The queen, however, still had over the church a visitatorial power of vast and undefined extent. Macaulay. 

VISITE:  A light cape or short cloak of silk or lace worn by women in summer. 

VISITER:  A visitor. 

VISITING:  a. & vb. n. from Visit. Visiting ant. (Zoöl.) See Driver ant, under Driver.  -- Visiting book, a book in which a record of visits received, made, and to be made, is kept. Thackeray.  -- Visiting card. See under Card. 

VISITORIAL:  Same as Visitatorial. 

VISIVE:  Of or pertaining to the sight; visual. [Obs.] I can not satisfy myself how men should be so little surprised about this visive faculty. Berkeley.  VIS MAJOR Vis ma"jor. [L. major greater.] (Law)  A superior force which under certain circumstances is held to exempt from contract obligations; inevitable accident; -- a civil-law term used as nearly equivalent to, but broader than, the common-law term act of God (which see). 

VISNE:  Neighborhood; vicinity; venue. See Venue. 

VISNOMY:  Face; countenance. [Colloq.] Spenser. Lamb. 

VISON:  The mink. 

VISORED:  Wearing a visor; masked. Visored falsehood and base forgery. Milton. 

VISTA:  A view; especially, a view through or between intervening objects, as trees; a view or prospect through an avenue, or the like; hence, the trees or other objects that form the avenue. The finished garden to the view Its vistas opens, and its alleys green. Thomson. In the groves of their academy, at the end of every vista, you see nothing but the gallows. Burke. The shattered tower which now forms a vista from his window. Sir W. Scott. 

VISTO:  A vista; a prospect. [R.] Gay. Through the long visto of a thousand years. Young. 

VISUALIZE:  To make visual, or visible; to see in fancy. [Written also visualise.] No one who has not seen them [glaciers] can possibly visualize them. Lubbock. 

VISUALIZER:  One who visualizes or is proficient in visualization; esp. (Physiol.),  one whose mental imagery is prevailingly visualization. 

VITAILLE:  Food; victuals. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Chaucer. 

VITAL:  A vital part; one of the vitals. [R.] 

VITALIC:  Pertaining to life; vital. [R.] 

VITALISM:  The doctrine that all the functions of a living organism are due to an unknown vital principle distinct from all chemical and physical forces. 

VITALIST:  A believer in the theory of vitalism; -- opposed to physicist. 

VITALISTIC:  Pertaining to, or involving, vitalism, or the theory of a special vital principle. 

VITALITY:  The quality or state of being vital; the principle of life; vital force; animation; as, the vitality of eggs or vegetable seeds; the vitality of an enterprise. 

VITALIZATION:  The act or process of vitalizing, or infusing the vital principle. 

VITALIZE:  To endow with life, or vitality; to give life to; to make alive; as, vitalized blood. 

VITALLY:  In a vital manner. 

VITASCOPE:  A form of machine for exhibiting animated pictures. 

VITELLARY:  Vitelline. 

VITELLIGENOUS:  Producing yolk, or vitelline substance; -- applied to certain cells (also called nutritive, or yolk, cells) formed in the ovaries of many insects, and supposed to supply nutriment to the developing ova. 

VITELLIN:  An albuminous body, belonging to the class of globulins, obtained from yolk of egg, of which it is the chief proteid constituent, and from the seeds of many plants. From the latter it can be separated in crystalline form. 

VITELLINE:  Of or pertaining to the yolk of eggs; as, the vitelline membrane, a smooth, transparent membrane surrounding the vitellus. 

VITELLOGENE:  A gland secreting the yolk of the eggs in trematodes, turbellarians, and some other helminths. 

VITELLUS:  The contents or substance of the ovum; egg yolk. See Illust. of Ovum.  2. (Bot.)  Perisperm in an early condition. 

VITIATION:  The act of vitiating, or the state of being vitiated; depravation; corruption; invalidation; as, the vitiation of the blood; the vitiation of a contract. The vitiation that breeds evil acts. G. Eliot. 

VITICULOSE:  Having long and slender trailing stems. 

VITICULTURAL:  Of or pertaining to viticulture. 

VITICULTURE:  The cultivation of the vine; grape growing. 

VITICULTURIST:  One engaged in viticulture. 

VITILIGO:  A rare skin disease consisting in the development of smooth, milk-white spots upon various parts of the body. 

VITILITIGATE:  To contend in law litigiously or cavilously. [Obs.] 

VITILITIGATION:  Cavilous litigation; cavillation. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

VITIOSITY:  Viciousness; depravity. The perverseness and vitiosity of man's will. South.  VITIOUS; VITIOUSLY; VITIOUSNESS Vi"tious, a., Vi"tious*ly, adv., Vi"tious*ness, n.  See Vicious, Viciously, Viciousness. 

VITIS:  A genus of plants including all true grapevines. 

VITOE:  See Durukuli. 

VITRAGE:  A curtain of light and translucent material intended to be secured directly to the woodwork of a French casement window or a glazed door. 

VITRELLA:  One of the transparent lenslike cells in the ocelli of certain arthropods.  VITREO-ELECTIC Vit`re*o-e*lec"tic, a. Etym: [See Vitreous, and Electric.] (Physics)  Containing or exhibiting positive, or vitreous, electricity. 

VITREOUSNESS:  The quality or state of being vitreous. 

VITRESCENCE:  The quality or state of being vitreous; glassiness, or the quality of being vitrescent; capability of conversion into glass; susceptibility of being formed into glass. Kirwan. 

VITRESCENT:  Capable of being formed into glass; tending to become glass. 

VITRESCIBLE:  That may be vitrified; vitrifiable. 

VITRIC:  Having the nature and qualities of glass; glasslike; -- distinguished from ceramic. 

VITRIFACTION:  The act, art, or process of vitrifying; also, the state of being vitrified. 

VITRIFACTURE:  The manufacture of glass and glassware. 

VITRIFIABLE:  Capable of being vitrified, or converted into glass by heat and fusion; as, flint and alkalies are vitrifiable. 

VITRIFICABLE:  Vitrifiable. [Obs.] 

VITRIFICATE:  To convert into glass; to vitrify. [Obs.] Bacon. 

VITRIFICATION:  Same as Vitrifaction. Sir T. Browne. Ure. 

VITRIFIED:  Converted into glass. 

VITRIFORM:  Having the form or appearance of glass; resembling glass; glasslike. 

VITRIFY:  To convert into, or cause to resemble, glass or a glassy substance, by heat and fusion. 

VITRIFY:  To become glass; to be converted into glass. Chymists make vessels of animal substances, calcined, which will not vitrify in the fire. Arbuthnot. 

VITRINA:  A genus of terrestrial gastropods, having transparent, very thin, and delicate shells, -- whence the name. 

VITRINE:  A glass show case for displaying fine wares, specimens, etc. 

VITRIOLATE:  Vitriolated. [R.] 

VITRIOLATE:  A sulphate. 

VITRIOLATED:  Changed into a vitriol or a sulphate, or subjected to the action of sulphuric acid or of a sulphate; as, vitriolated potash, i. e., potassium sulphate. 

VITRIOLATION:  The act, process, or result of vitriolating. 

VITRIOLIC:  Of or pertaining to vitriol; derived from, or resembling, vitriol; vitriolous; as, a vitriolic taste. Cf. Vitriol. Vitriolic acid (Old Chem.), (a) sulphuric acid. See Vitriol (b). [Colloq.] 

VITRIOLIZABLE:  Capable of being converted into a vitriol. 

VITRIOLIZATION:  The act of vitriolizing, or the state of being vitriolized; vitriolation. 

VITRIOLIZE:  To convert into a vitriol; to vitriolate. 

VITRIOLOUS:  See Vitriolic. [Obs.] 

VITRITE:  A kind of glass which is very hard and difficult to fuse, used as an insulator in electrical lamps and other apparatus.  VITRO-DI-TRINA Vit"ro-di-tri"na, n. [It. vetro di trina glass of lace.]  A kind of Venetian glass or glassware in which white threads are embedded in transparent glass with a lacelike or netlike effect. 

VITRUVIAN:  Of or pertaining to Vitruvius, an ancient Roman architect. Vitruvian scroll (Arch.), a name given to a peculiar pattern of scrollwork, consisting of convolved undulations. It is used in classical architecture. Oxf. Gloss. 

VITTA:  One of the oil tubes in the fruit of umbelliferous plants.  2. (Zoöl.)  A band, or stripe, of color. 

VITTATE:  Bearing or containing vittæ.  2. Striped longitudinally. 

VITULINE:  Of or pertaining to a calf or veal. 

VITUPERABLE:  Liable to, or deserving, vituperation, or severe censure. 

VITUPERATE:  To find fault with; to scold; to overwhelm with wordy abuse; to censure severely or abusively; to rate. 

VITUPERATION:  The act of vituperating; abuse; severe censure; blame. When a man becomes untractable and inaccessible by fierceness and pride, then vituperation comes upon him. Donne. 

VITUPERATIVE:  Uttering or writing censure; containing, or characterized by, abuse; scolding; abusive.  -- Vi*tu"per*a*tive*ly, adv. Vituperative appellations derived from their real or supposed ill qualities. B. Jonson. 

VITUPERATOR:  One who vituperates, or censures abusively. 

VITUPERRIOUS:  Worthy of vituperation; shameful; disgraceful. [Obs.] 

VIVACE:  Brisk; vivacious; with spirit; -- a direction to perform a passage in a brisk and lively manner. 

VIVACIOUS:  Living through the winter, or from year to year; perennial. [R.]  Syn.  -- Sprightly; active; animated; sportive; gay; merry; jocund; light- hearted.  -- Vi*va"cious*ly, adv.  -- Vi*va"cious*ness, n. 

VIVACITY:  The quality or state of being vivacious. Specifically: -- (a) Tenacity of life; vital force; natural vigor. [Obs.] The vivacity of some of these pensioners is little less than a miracle, they lived so long. Fuller.  (b) Life; animation; spiritedness; liveliness; sprightliness; as, the vivacity of a discourse; a lady of great vivacity; vivacity of countenance.  Syn.  -- Liveliness; gayety. See Liveliness. 

VIVANDIER:  In Continental armies, esp. the French, a sutler. 

VIVANDIERE:  In Continental armies, especially in the French army, a woman accompanying a regiment, who sells provisions and liquor to the soldiers; a female sutler. 

VIVARIUM:  A place artificially arranged for keeping or raising living animals, as a park, a pond, an aquarium, a warren, etc. 

VIVARY:  A vivarium. "That . . . vivary of fowls and beasts." Donne.  VIVA VOCE Vi"va vo"ce. Etym: [L.]  By word of mouth; orally. 

VIVDA:  See Vifda. 

VIVE:  Long live, that is, success to; as, vive le roi, long live the king; vive la bagatelle, success to trifles or sport. 

VIVE:  Lively; animated; forcible. [Obs.] Bacon. 

VIVELY:  In a lively manner. [Obs.] If I see a thing vively represented on the stage. B. Jonson. 

VIVENCY:  Manner of supporting or continuing life or vegetation. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. 

VIVERRA:  A genus of carnivores which comprises the civets. 

VIVERRINE:  Of or pertaining to the Viverridæ, or Civet family. 

VIVERS:  Provisions; victuals. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] I 'll join you at three, if the vivers can tarry so long. Sir W. Scott. 

VIVES:  A disease of brute animals, especially of horses, seated in the glands under the ear, where a tumor is formed which sometimes ends in suppuration. 

VIVIANITE:  A hydrous phosphate of iron of a blue to green color, growing darker on exposure. It occurs in monoclinic crystals, also fibrous, massive, and earthy. 

VIVIDITY:  The quality or state of being vivid; vividness. [R.]  VIVIFIC; VIVIFICAL Vi*vif"ic, Vi*vif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. vivificus: cf. F. vivifique. See Vivify.]  Giving life; reviving; enlivening. [R.] 

VIVIFICATE:  To bring back a metal to the metallic form, as from an oxide or solution; to reduce. [Obs.] 

VIVIFICATION:  One of the changes of assimilation, in which proteid matter which has been transformed, and made a part of the tissue or tissue cells, is endowed with life, and thus enabled to manifest the phenomena of irritability, contractility, etc. McKendrick.  3. (Chem.)  The act or process of vivificating. [Obs.] 

VIVIFICATIVE:  Able or tending to vivify, animate, or give life; vivifying. 

VIVIFY:  To endue with life; to make to be living; to quicken; to animate. Sitting on eggs doth vivify, not nourish. Bacon. 

VIVIPARA:  An artificial division of vertebrates including those that produce their young alive; -- opposed to Ovipara. 

VIVIPARITY:  The quality or condition of being viviparous. H. Spencer. 

VIVIPAROUS:  Producing young in a living state, as most mammals, or as those plants the offspring of which are produced alive, either by bulbs instead of seeds, or by the seeds themselves germinating on the plant, instead of falling, as they usually do; -- opposed to oviparous. Viviparous fish. (Zoöl.) See Embiotocoid.  -- Viviparous shell (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of operculated fresh-water gastropods belonging to Viviparus, Melantho, and allied genera. Their young, when born, have a well-developed spiral shell. 

VIVIPAROUSLY:  In a viviparous manner. 

VIVIPAROUSNESS:  The quality of being viviparous; viviparity. 

VIVISECT:  To perform vivisection upon; to dissect alive. [Colloq.] Pop. Sci. Monthly. 

VIVISECTION:  The dissection of an animal while alive, for the purpose of making physiological investigations. 

VIVISECTIONAL:  Of or pertaining to vivisection. 

VIVISECTIONIST:  One who practices or advocates vivisection; a vivisector. 

VIVISECTOR:  A vivisectionist. 

VIXENISH:  Of or pertaining to a vixen; resembling a vixen. 

VIXENLY:  Like a vixen; vixenish. Barrow. 

VIZ:  To wit; that is; namely. 

VIZARD:  A mask; a visor. [Archaic] "A grotesque vizard." Sir W. Scott. To mislead and betray them under the vizard of law. Milton. 

VIZARDED:  Wearing a vizard. [R.] Shak. 

VIZCACHA:  Same as Viscacha. 

VIZIER:  A councilor of state; a high executive officer in Turkey and other Oriental countries. [Written also visier, vizir, and vizer.] Grand vizier, the chief minister of the Turkish empire; -- called also vizier-azem. 

VIZIERATE:  The office, dignity, or authority of a vizier.  VIZIER-AZEM Vi*zier`-a*zem", n. Etym: [Ar. azam great. See Vizier.]  A grand vizier. See under Vizier. 

VIZIERIAL:  Of, pertaining to, or issued by, a vizier. [Written also vizirial.] 

VIZIR:  See Vizier. 

VIZOR:  See Visor. 

VLISSMAKI:  The diadem indris. See Indris.  V MOTH V" moth`. (Zoöl.)  A common gray European moth (Halia vauaria) having a V-shaped spot of dark brown on each of the fore wings. 

VOCABLE:  A word; a term; a name; specifically, a word considered as composed of certain sounds or letters, without regard to its meaning. Swamped near to drowning in a tide of ingenious vocables. Carlyle. 

VOCABULIST:  The writer or maker of a vocabulary; a lexicographer. 

VOCAL:  A vocal sound; specifically, a purely vocal element of speech, unmodified except by resonance; a vowel or a diphthong; a tonic element; a tonic; -- distinguished from a subvocal, and a nonvocal.  2. (R. C. Ch.)  A man who has a right to vote in certain elections. 

VOCALIC:  Of or pertaining to vowel sounds; consisting of the vowel sounds. Earle. The Gaelic language being uncommonly vocalic. Sir W. Scott. 

VOCALIST:  A singer, or vocal musician, as opposed to an instrumentalist. 

VOCALNESS:  The quality of being vocal; vocality. 

VOCATION:  A calling by the will of God. Specifically: -- (a) The bestowment of God's distinguishing grace upon a person or nation, by which that person or nation is put in the way of salvation; as, the vocation of the Jews under the old dispensation, and of the Gentiles under the gospel. "The golden chain of vocation, election, and justification." Jer. Taylor. (b) A call to special religious work, as to the ministry. Every member of the same [the Church], in his vocation and ministry. Bk. of Com. Prayer. 

VOCATIVE:  Of or pertaining to calling; used in calling; specifically (Gram.), used in address; appellative; -- said of that case or form of the noun, pronoun, or adjective, in which a person or thing is addressed; as, Domine, O Lord. 

VOCATIVE:  The vocative case. 

VOCIFERANCE:  Vociferation; noise; clamor. [R.] R. Browning. 

VOCIFERANT:  Noisy; clamorous. Gauden. R. Browning. 

VOCIFERATE:  To cry out with vehemence; to exclaim; to bawl; to clamor. Cowper. 

VOCIFERATE:  To utter with a loud voice; to shout out. Though he may vociferate the word liberty. V. Knox. 

VOCIFERATION:  The act of vociferating; violent outcry; vehement utterance of the voice. Violent gesture and vociferation naturally shake the hearts of the ignorant. Spectator. Plaintive strains succeeding the vociferations of emotion or of pain. Byron. 

VOCIFERATOR:  One who vociferates, or is clamorous. [R.] 

VOCIFEROUS:  Making a loud outcry; clamorous; noisy; as, vociferous heralds.  -- Vo*cif"er*ous*ly, adv.  -- Vo*cif"er*ous*ness, n. 

VOCULE:  A short or weak utterance; a faint or feeble sound, as that heard on separating the lips in pronouncing p or b. Rush.  -- Voc"u*lar, a. 

VODANIUM:  A supposed element, afterward found to be a mixture of several metals, as copper, iron, lead, nickel, etc. 

VODKA:  A Russian drink distilled from rye. 

VOE:  An inlet, bay, or creek; -- so called in the Orkney and Shetland Islands. Jamieson. 

VOGLE:  Same as Vugg. 

VOICE:  Sound of the kind or quality heard in speech or song in the consonants b, v, d, etc., and in the vowels; sonant, or intonated, utterance; tone; -- distinguished from mere breath sound as heard in f, s, sh, etc., and also whisper.  Note: Voice, in this sense, is produced by vibration of the so-called vocal cords in the larynx (see Illust. of Larynx) which act upon the air, not in the manner of the strings of a stringed instrument, but as a pair of membranous tongues, or reeds, which, being continually forced apart by the outgoing current of breath, and continually brought together again by their own elasticity and muscular tension, break the breath current into a series of puffs, or pulses, sufficiently rapid to cause the sensation of tone. The power, or loudness, of such a tone depends on the force of the separate pulses, and this is determined by the pressure of the expired air, together with the resistance on the part of the vocal cords which is continually overcome. Its pitch depends on the number of aërial pulses within a given time, that is, on the rapidity of their succession. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 5, 146, 155.  3. The tone or sound emitted by anything. After the fire a still small voice. 1 Kings xix. 12. Canst thou thunder with a voice like him Job xl. 9. The floods have lifted up their voice. Ps. xciii. 3. O Marcus, I am warm'd; my heart Leaps at the trumpet's voice. Addison.  4. The faculty or power of utterance; as, to cultivate the voice.  5. Language; words; speech; expression; signification of feeling or opinion. I desire to be present with you now, and to change my voice; for I stand in doubt of you. Gal. iv. 20. My voice is in my sword. Shak. Let us call on God in the voice of his church. Bp. Fell.  6. Opinion or choice expressed; judgment; a vote. Sic. How now, my masters! have you chose this man 1 Cit. He has our voices, sir. Shak. Some laws ordain, and some attend the choice Of holy senates, and elect by voice. Dryden.  7. Command; precept; -- now chiefly used in scriptural language. So shall ye perish; because ye would not be obedient unto the voice of the Lord your God. Deut. viii. 20.  8. One who speaks; a speaker. "A potent voice of Parliament." Tennyson.  9. (Gram.)  A particular mode of inflecting or conjugating verbs, or a particular form of a verb, by means of which is indicated the relation of the subject of the verb to the action which the verb expresses. Active voice (Gram.), that form of the verb by which its subject is represented as the agent or doer of the action expressed by it.  -- Chest voice (Phon.), a kind of voice of a medium or low pitch and of a sonorous quality ascribed to resonance in the chest, or thorax; voice of the thick register. It is produced by vibration of the vocal cords through their entire width and thickness, and with convex surfaces presented to each other.  -- Head voice (Phon.), a kind of voice of high pitch and of a thin quality ascribed to resonance in the head; voice of the thin register; falsetto. In producing it, the vibration of the cords is limited to their thin edges in the upper part, which are then presented to each other.  -- Middle voice (Gram.), that form of the verb by which its subject is represented as both the agent, or doer, and the object of the action, that is, as performing some act to or upon himself, or for his own advantage.  -- Passive voice. (Gram.) See under Passive, a.  -- Voice glide (Pron.), the brief and obscure neutral vowel sound that sometimes occurs between two consonants in an unaccented syllable (represented by the apostrophe), as in able (a"b'l). See Glide, n., 2.  -- Voice stop. See Voiced stop, under Voiced, a.  -- With one voice, unanimously. "All with one voice . . . cried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians." Acts xix. 34. 

VOICE:  To utter with sonant or vocal tone; to pronounce with a narrowed glottis and rapid vibrations of the vocal cords; to speak above a whisper.  3. To fit for producing the proper sounds; to regulate the tone of; as, to voice the pipes of an organ.  4. To vote; to elect; to appoint. [Obs.] Shak. 

VOICE:  To clamor; to cry out. [Obs.] South. 

VOICED:  Uttered with voice; pronounced with vibrations of the vocal cords; sonant; -- said of a sound uttered with the glottis narrowed. Voiced stop, Voice stop (Phon.), a stopped consonant made with tone from the larynx while the mouth organs are closed at some point; a sonant mute, as b, d, g hard. 

VOICEFUL:  Having a voice or vocal quality; having a loud voice or many voices; vocal; sounding. Beheld the Iliad and the Odyssey Rise to the swelling of the voiceful sea. Coleridge. 

VOICELESS:  Not sounded with voice; as, a voiceless consonant; surd. Voiceless stop (Phon.), a consonant made with no audible sound except in the transition to or from another sound; a surd mute, as p, t, k.  -- Voice"less*ly, adv.  -- Voice"less*ness, n. 

VOID:  Of no legal force or effect, incapable of confirmation or ratification; null. Cf. Voidable, 2. Void space (Physics), a vacuum.  Syn.  -- Empty; vacant; devoid; wanting; unfurnished; unsupplied; unoccupied. 

VOID:  An empty space; a vacuum. Pride, where wit fails, steps in to our defense, And fills up all the mighty void of sense. Pope. 

VOID:  To be emitted or evacuated. Wiseman. 

VOIDABLE:  Capable of being avoided, or of being adjudged void, invalid, and of no force; capable of being either avoided or confirmed. If the metropolitan . . . grants letters of administration, such administration is not, but voidable by sentence. Ayliffe.  Note: A voidable contract may be ratified and confirmed; to render it null and of no effect, it must be avoided; a void contract can not be ratified. 

VOIDANCE:  A ejection from a benefice.  3. The state of being void; vacancy, as of a benefice which is without an incumbent.  4. Evasion; subterfuge. [Obs.] Bacon. 

VOIDED:  Having the inner part cut away, or left vacant, a narrow border being left at the sides, the tincture of the field being seen in the vacant space; -- said of a charge. 

VOIDER:  One of the ordinaries, much like the flanch, but less rounded and therefore smaller. 

VOIDING:  Receiving what is ejected or voided. "How in our voiding lobby hast thou stood" Shak. 

VOIDNESS:  The quality or state of being void;  VOIR DIRE Voir dire. Etym: [OF., to say the truth, fr. L. verus true + dicere to say.] (Law)  An oath administered to a witness, usually before being sworn in chief, requiring him to speak the truth, or make true answers in reference to matters inquired of, to ascertain his competency to give evidence. Greenleaf. Ld. Abinger. 

VOITURE:  A carriage. Arbuthnot. 

VOIVODE:  See Waywode. Longfellow. 

VOLACIOUS:  Apt or fit to fly. [R.] 

VOLAGE:  Light; giddy. [Obs.] They wroughten all their lust volage. Chaucer. 

VOLANT:  Represented as flying, or having the wings spread; as, an eagle volant. Volant piece (Anc. Armor), an adjustable piece of armor, for guarding the throat, etc., in a joust. 

VOLANTE:  A cumbrous two-wheeled pleasure carriage used in Cuba.  VOLAPUK; VOLAPUEK Vol`a*pük", n  Literally, world's speech; the name of an artificial language invented by Johan Martin Schleyer, of Constance, Switzerland, about 1879.  VOLAPUKIST; VOLAPUEKIST Vol`a*pük"ist, n.  One who is conversant with, or who favors adoption of, Volapük. 

VOLAR:  Of or pertaining to the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot. 

VOLARY:  See Volery. [Obs.] 

VOLATILE:  A winged animal; wild fowl; game. [Obs.] Chaucer. Sir T. Browne.  VOLATILENESS; VOLATILITY Vol"a*tile*ness, Vol`a*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. volatilité.]  Quality or state of being volatile; disposition to evaporate; changeableness; fickleness.  Syn.  -- See Levity. 

VOLATILIZABLE:  Capable of being volatilized. 

VOLATILIZATION:  The act or process of volatilizing, or rendering volatile; the state of being volatilized. 

VOLATILIZE:  To render volatile; to cause to exhale or evaporate; to cause to pass off in vapor. The water . . . dissolving the oil, and volatilizing it by the action. Sir I. Newton. 

VOLATOR:  Same as Volador, 1.  VOL-AU-VENT Vol`-au`-vent", n. Etym: [F.] (Cookery)  A light puff paste, with a raised border, filled, after baking, usually with a ragout of fowl, game, or fish. 

VOLBORTHITE:  A mineral occurring in small six-sided tabular crystals of a green or yellow color. It is a hydrous vanadate of copper and lime. 

VOLCANIAN:  Volcanic. [R.] Keats. 

VOLCANICALLY:  Like a volcano. 

VOLCANICITY:  Quality or state of being volcanic; volcanic power.  VOLCANIC NECK Vol*can"ic neck. (Geol.)  A column of igneous rock formed by congelation of lava in the conduit of a volcano and later exposed by the removal of surrounding rocks.  VOLCANIC WIND Volcanic wind. (Meteorol.)  A wind associated with a volcanic outburst and due to the eruption or to convection currents over hot lava. 

VOLCANISM:  Volcanic power or action; volcanicity. 

VOLCANITY:  The quality or state of being volcanic, or volcanic origin; volcanicity. [R.] 

VOLCANIZATION:  The act of volcanizing, or the state of being volcanized; the process of undergoing volcanic heat, and being affected by it. 

VOLCANIZE:  To subject to, or cause to undergo, volcanic heat, and to be affected by its action. 

VOLCANO:  A mountain or hill, usually more or less conical in form, from which lava, cinders, steam, sulphur gases, and the like, are ejected; -- often popularly called a burning mountain.  Note: Volcanoes include many of the most conspicuous and lofty mountains of the earth, as Mt. Vesuvius in Italy (4,000 ft. high), Mt. Loa in Hawaii (14,000 ft.), Cotopaxi in South America (nearly 20,000 ft.), which are examples of active volcanoes. The crater of a volcano is usually a pit-shaped cavity, often of great size. The summit crater of Mt. Loa has a maximum length of 13,000 ft., and a depth of nearly 800 feet. Beside the chief crater, a volcano may have a number of subordinate craters. 

VOLE:  A deal at cards that draws all the tricks. Swift. 

VOLE:  To win all the tricks by a vole. Pope. 

VOLE:  Any one of numerous species of micelike rodents belonging to Arvicola and allied genera of the subfamily Arvicolinæ. They have a thick head, short ears, and a short hairy tail.  Note: The water vole, or water rat, of Europe (Arvicola amphibius) is a common large aquatic species. The short-tailed field vole (A. agrestis) of Northern and Central Europe, and Asia, the Southern field vole (A. arvalis), and the Siberian root vole (A. oeconomus), are important European species. The common species of the Eastern United States (A. riparius) (called also meadow mouse) and the prairie mouse (A. austerus) are abundant, and often injurious to vegetation. Other species are found in Canada. 

VOLGE:  The common sort of people; the crowd; the mob. [Obs.] Fuller. 

VOLITABLE:  Volatilizable. [Obs.] 

VOLITATION:  The act of flying; flight. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

VOLITIENT:  Exercising the will; acting from choice; willing, or having power to will. "What I do, I do volitient, not obedient." Mrs. Browning. 

VOLITIONAL:  Belonging or relating to volition. "The volitional impulse." Bacon. 

VOLITIVE:  Used in expressing a wish or permission as, volitive proposition. 

VOLKSLIED:  A popular song, or national air. 

VOLKSRAAD:  A legislative assembly or parliament of any one of several countries colonized by the Dutch, esp. that of the South African Republic, or the Transvaal, and that of the Orange Free State. 

VOLLEY:  To discharge with, or as with, a volley. 

VOLLEY:  A game played by volleying a large inflated ball with the hands over a net 7 ft. 6 in. high. 

VOLLEYED:  Discharged with a sudden burst, or as if in a volley; as, volleyed thunder. 

VOLOST:  In the greater part of Russia, a division for local government consisting of a group of mirs, or village communities; a canton. 

VOLOW:  To baptize; -- used in contempt by the Reformers. [Obs.] Tyndale. 

VOLPLANE:  To glide in a flying machine. 

VOLT:  A circular tread; a gait by which a horse going sideways round a center makes two concentric tracks.  2. (Fencing)  A sudden movement to avoid a thrust. 

VOLT:  The unit of electro-motive force; -- defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893 and by United States Statute as, that electro-motive force which steadily applied to a conductor whose resistance is one ohm will produce a current of one ampère. It is practically equivalent to 

VOLTA:  A turning; a time; -- chiefly used in phrases signifying that the part is to be repeated one, two, or more times; as, una volta, once. Seconda volta, second time, points to certain modifications in the close of a repeated strain.  VOLTA-ELECTRIC Vol"ta-e*lec"tric, a.  Of or pertaining to voltaic electricity, or voltaism.  VOLTA-ELECTROMETER Vol`ta-e`lec*trom"e*ter, n.  An instrument for the exact measurement of electric currents. 

VOLTAGE:  Electric potential or potential difference, expressed in volts. 

VOLTAGRAPHY:  In electrotypy, the act or art of copying, in metals deposited by electrolytic action, a form or pattern which is made the negative electrode. [R.] 

VOLTAIREAN:  Of or relating to Voltaire, the French author. J. Morley. 

VOLTAIRISM:  The theories or practice of Voltaire. J. Morley. 

VOLTAISM:  That form of electricity which is developed by the chemical action between metals and different liquids; voltaic electricity; also, the science which treats of this form of electricity; -- called also galvanism, from Galvani, on account of his experiments showing the remarkable influence of this agent on animals. 

VOLTAMETER:  An instrument for measuring the voltaic electricity passing through it, by its effect in decomposing water or some other chemical compound acting as an electrolyte. 

VOLTAMMETER:  A wattmeter.  VOLT AMPERE Volt ampère. (Elec.)  A unit of electric measurement equal to the product of a volt and an ampere. For direct current it is a measure of power and is the same as a watt; for alternating current it is a measure of apparent power. 

VOLTAPLAST:  A form of voltaic, or galvanic, battery suitable for use electrotyping. G. Francis. 

VOLTATYPE:  An electrotype. [R.] 

VOLTI:  Turn, that is, turn over the leaf. Volti subito Etym: [It.] (Mus.), turn over quickly. 

VOLTIGEUR:  One of a picked company of irregular riflemen in each regiment of the French infantry. 

VOLTMETER:  An instrument for measuring in volts the differences of potential between different points of an electrical circuit. 

VOLTZITE:  An oxysulphide of lead occurring in implanted spherical globules of a yellowish or brownish color; -- called also voltzine.  VOLUBILATE; VOLUBILE Vo*lu"bi*late, Vol"u*bile}, a. Etym: [See Voluble.]  Turning, or whirling; winding; twining; voluble. 

VOLUBILITY:  The quality or state of being voluble (in any of the senses of the adjective). 

VOLUBLE:  Having the power or habit of turning or twining; as, the voluble stem of hop plants. Voluble stem (Bot.), a stem that climbs by winding, or twining, round another body.  -- Vol"u*ble*ness, n.  -- Vol"u*bly, adv. 

VOLUME:  Amount, fullness, quantity, or caliber of voice or tone. Atomic volume, Molecular volume (Chem.), the ratio of the atomic and molecular weights divided respectively by the specific gravity of the substance in question.  -- Specific volume (Physics & Chem.), the quotient obtained by dividing unity by the specific gravity; the reciprocal of the specific gravity. It is equal (when the specific gravity is referred to water at 4º C. as a standard) to the number of cubic centimeters occupied by one gram of the substance. 

VOLUMENOMETER:  An instrument for measuring the volume of a body, especially a solid, by means of the difference in tension caused by its presence and absence in a confined portion of air. 

VOLUMENOMETRY:  The method or process of measuring volumes by means of the volumenometer. 

VOLUMESCOPE:  An instrument consisting essentially of a glass tube provided with a graduated scale, for exhibiting to the eye the changes of volume of a gas or gaseous mixture resulting from chemical action, and the like. 

VOLUMESCOPE:  An instrument consisting essentially of a glass tube provided with a graduated scale, for exhibiting to the eye the changes of volume of a gas or gaseous mixture resulting from chemical action, etc. 

VOLUMETER:  An instrument for measuring the volumes of gases or liquids by introducing them into a vessel of known capacity. 

VOLUMETRIC:  Of or pertaining to the measurement of volume. Volumetric analysis (Chem.), that system of the quantitative analysis of solutions which employs definite volumes of standardized solutions of reagents, as measured by burettes, pipettes, etc.; also, the analysis of gases by volume, as by the eudiometer. 

VOLUMETRICAL:  Volumetric.  -- Vol`u*met"ric*al*ly, adv. 

VOLUMINOUS:  Of or pertaining to volume or volumes. Specifically: -- (a) Consisting of many folds, coils, or convolutions. But ended foul in many a scaly fold, Voluminous and vast. Milton. Over which dusky draperies are hanging, and voluminous curtains have long since fallen. De Quincey.  (b) Of great volume, or bulk; large. B. Jonson. (c) Consisting of many volumes or books; as, the collections of Muratori are voluminous. (d) Having written much, or produced many volumes; copious; diffuse; as, a voluminous writer.  -- Vo*lu"mi*nous*ly, adv.  -- Vo*lu"mi*nous*ness, n. 

VOLUMIST:  One who writes a volume; an author. [Obs.] Milton. 

VOLUNTARILY:  In a voluntary manner; of one's own will; spontaneously. 

VOLUNTARINESS:  The quality or state of being voluntary; spontaneousness; specifically, the quality or state of being free in the exercise of one's will. 

VOLUNTARISM:  Any theory which conceives will to be the dominant factor in experience or in the constitution of the world; -- contrasted with intellectualism. Schopenhauer and Fichte are typical exponents of the two types of metaphysical voluntarism, Schopenhauer teaching that the evolution of the universe is the activity of a blind and irrational will, Fichte holding that the intelligent activity of the ego is the fundamental fact of reality. 

VOLUNTARY:  Of or pertaining to the will; subject to, or regulated by, the will; as, the voluntary motions of an animal, such as the movements of the leg or arm (in distinction from involuntary motions, such as the movements of the heart); the voluntary muscle fibers, which are the agents in voluntary motion.  5. Endowed with the power of willing; as, man is a voluntary agent. God did not work as a necessary, but a voluntary, agent, intending beforehand, and decreeing with himself, that which did outwardly proceed from him. Hooker.  6. (Law)  Free; without compulsion; according to the will, consent, or agreement, of a party; without consideration; gratuitous; without valuable consideration.  7. (Eccl.)  Of or pertaining to voluntaryism; as, a voluntary church, in distinction from an established or state church. Voluntary affidavit or oath (Law), an affidavit or oath made in extrajudicial matter.  -- Voluntary conveyance (Law), a conveyance without valuable consideration.  -- Voluntary escape (Law), the escape of a prisoner by the express consent of the sheriff.  -- Voluntary jurisdiction. (Eng. Eccl. Law) See Contentious jurisdiction, under Contentious.  -- Voluntary waste. (Law) See Waste, n., 4.  Syn.  -- See Spontaneous. 

VOLUNTARY:  A piece played by a musician, often extemporarily, according to his fancy; specifically, an organ solo played before, during, or after divine service.  3. (Eccl.)  One who advocates voluntaryism. 

VOLUNTARYISM:  The principle of supporting a religious system and its institutions by voluntary association and effort, rather than by the aid or patronage of the state. 

VOLUNTEER:  One who enters into service voluntarily, but who, when in service, is subject to discipline and regulations like other soldiers; -- opposed to conscript; specifically, a voluntary member of the organized militia of a country as distinguished from the standing army.  3. (Law)  A grantee in a voluntary conveyance; one to whom a conveyance is made without valuable consideration; a party, other than a wife or child of the grantor, to whom, or for whose benefit, a voluntary conveyance is made. Burrill. 

VOLUNTEER:  Of or pertaining to a volunteer or volunteers; consisting of volunteers; voluntary; as, volunteer companies; volunteer advice. 

VOLUNTEER:  To offer or bestow voluntarily, or without solicitation or compulsion; as, to volunteer one's services. 

VOLUNTEER:  To enter into, or offer for, any service of one's own free will, without solicitation or compulsion; as, he volunteered in that undertaking.  VOLUNTEER NAVY Vol`un*teer" na"vy.  A navy of vessels fitted out and manned by volunteers who sail under the flag of the regular navy and subject to naval discipline. Prussia in 1870, in the Franco-German war, organized such a navy, which was commanded by merchant seamen with temporary commissions, with the claim (in which England acquiesced) that it did not come within the meaning of the term privateer.  VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA Vol`un*teers" of America.  A religious and philanthropic organization, similar to the Salvation Army, founded (1896) by Commander and Mrs. Ballington Booth.  VOLUNTEER STATE Volunteer State.  Tennessee; -- a nickname. 

VOLUPERE:  A woman's cap. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

VOLUPTUARY:  A voluptuous person; one who makes his physical enjoyment his chief care; one addicted to luxury, and the gratification of sensual appetites. A good-humored, but hard-hearted, voluptuary. Sir W. Scott.  Syn.  -- Sensualist; epicure. 

VOLUPTUARY:  Voluptuous; luxurious. 

VOLUPTY:  Voluptuousness. [Obs.] 

VOLUTA:  Any one of numerous species of large, handsome marine gastropods belonging to Voluta and allied genera. 

VOLUTATION:  A rolling of a body; a wallowing. [R.] Sir T. Browne. 

VOLUTE:  A spiral scroll which forms the chief feature of the Ionic capital, and which, on a much smaller scale, is a feature in the Corinthian and Composite capitals. See Illust. of Capital, also Helix, and Stale.  2. (Zoöl.)  A spiral turn, as in certain shells.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any voluta. Volute spiring, a spring formed of a spiral scroll of plate, rod, or wire, extended or extensible in the direction of the axis of the coil, in which direction its elastic force is exerted and employed. 

VOLUTED:  Having a volute, or spiral scroll. 

VOLUTION:  A whorl of a spiral shell. 

VOLVA:  A saclike envelope of certain fungi, which bursts open as the plant develops. 

VOLVOX:  A genus of minute, pale-green, globular, organisms, about one fiftieth of an inch in diameter, found rolling through water, the motion being produced by minute colorless cilia. It has been considered as belonging to the flagellate Infusoria, but is now referred to the vegetable kingdom, and each globule is considered a colony of many individuals. The commonest species is Volvox globator, often called globe animalcule. 

VOLYER:  A lurcher. [Prov. Eng.] 

VOMERINE:  Of or pertaining to the vomer. 

VOMICINE:  See Brucine.  VOMIC NUT Vom"ic nut`. Etym: [Cf. F. noix vomique.]  Same as Nux vomica. 

VOMIT:  To eject the contents of the stomach by the mouth; to puke; to spew. 

VOMIT:  That which excites vomiting; an emetic. He gives your Hollander a vomit. Shak. Black vomit. (Med.) See in the Vocabulary.  -- Vomit nut, nux vomica. 

VOMITING:  The spasmodic ejection of matter from the stomach through the mouth. 

VOMITION:  The act or power of vomiting. Grew. 

VOMITIVE:  Causing the ejection of matter from the stomach; emetic. 

VOMITO:  The yellow fever in its worst form, when it is usually attended with black vomit. See Black vomit. 

VOMITORY:  Causing vomiting; emetic; vomitive. 

VOMITORY:  A principal door of a large ancient building, as of an amphitheater. Sixty-four vomitories . . . poured forth the immense multitude. Gibbon. 

VONDSIRA:  Same as Vansire. 

VOODOO:  Of or pertaining to voodooism, or a voodoo; as, voodoo incantations. 

VOODOOISM:  A degraded form of superstition and sorcery, said to include human sacrifices and cannibalism in some of its rites. It is prevalent among the negroes of Hayti, and to some extent in the United States, and is regarded as a relic of African barbarism. 

VOORTREKER:  One who treks before or first; a pioneer. [South Africa] 

VORACIOUS:  Greedy in eating; very hungry; eager to devour or swallow; ravenous; gluttonous; edacious; rapacious; as, a voracious man or appetite; a voracious gulf or whirlpool. Dampier.  -- Vo*ra"cious*ly, adv.  -- Vo*ra"cious*ness, n. 

VORACITY:  The quality of being voracious; voraciousness. 

VORAGINOUS:  Pertaining to a gulf; full of gulfs; hence, devouring. [R.] Mallet. 

VORTEX:  A supposed collection of particles of very subtile matter, endowed with a rapid rotary motion around an axis which was also the axis of a sun or a planet. Descartes attempted to account for the formation of the universe, and the movements of the bodies composing it, by a theory of vortices.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of small Turbellaria belonging to Vortex and allied genera. See Illustration in Appendix. Vortex atom (Chem.), a hypothetical ring-shaped mass of elementary matter in continuous vortical motion. It is conveniently regarded in certain mathematical speculations as the typical form and structure of the chemical atom.  -- Vortex wheel, a kind of turbine.  VORTEX FILAMENT Vor"tex fil"a*ment.  A vortex tube of infinitesimal cross section.  VORTEX FRINGE Vor"tex fringe.  The region immediately surrounding a disk moving flatwise through air; -- so called because the air has a cyclic motion as in vortex ring.  VORTEX LINE Vortex line.  A line, within a rotating fluid, whose tangent at every point is the instantaneous axis of rotation as that point of the fluid.  VORTEX RING Vortex ring. (Physics)  A ring-shaped mass of moving fluid which, by virtue of its motion of rotation around an axis disposed in circular form, attains a more or less distinct separation from the surrounding medium and has many of the properties of a solid.  VORTEX THEORY Vortex theory. (Chem. & Physics)  The theory, advanced by Thomson (Lord Kelvin) on the basis of investigation by Helmholtz, that the atoms are vortically moving ring-shaped masses (or masses of other forms having a similar internal motion) of a homogeneous, incompressible, frictionless fluid. Various properties of such atoms (vortex atoms) can be mathematically deduced.  VORTEX TUBE Vortex tube. (Physics)  An imaginary tube within a rotating fluid, formed by drawing the vortex lines through all points of a closed curve. 

VORTICAL:  Of or pertaining to a vortex or vortexes; resembling a vortex in form or motion; whirling; as, a vortical motion.  -- Vor"ti*cal*ly, adv. 

VORTICEL:  A vorticella. 

VORTICELLA:  Any one of numerous species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to Vorticella and many other genera of the family Vorticellidæ. They have a more or less bell-shaped body with a circle of vibrating cilia around the oral disk. Most of the species have slender, contractile stems, either simple or branched. 

VORTICOSE:  Vortical; whirling; as, a vorticose motion. 

VORTIGINOUS:  Moving rapidly round a center; vortical. [R.] Cowper. 

VOTARESS:  A woman who is a votary. Shak. 

VOTARIST:  A votary. Like a sad votarist in palmer's weed. Milton. 

VOTARY:  Consecrated by a vow or promise; consequent on a vow; devoted; promised. Votary resolution is made equipollent to custom. Bacon. 

VOTARY:  One devoted, consecrated, or engaged by a vow or promise; hence, especially, one devoted, given, or addicted, to some particular service, worship, study, or state of life. "You are already love's firm votary." Shak. 'T was coldness of the votary, not the prayer, that was in fault. Bp. Fell. But thou, my votary, weepest thou Emerson. 

VOTE:  To express or signify the mind, will, or preference, either viva voce, or by ballot, or by other authorized means, as in electing persons to office, in passing laws, regulations, etc., or in deciding on any proposition in which one has an interest with others. The vote for a duelist is to assist in the prostration of justice, and, indirectly, to encourage the crime. L. Beecher. To vote on large principles, to vote honestly, requires a great amount of information. F. W. Robertson. 

VOTER:  One who votes; one who has a legal right to vote, or give his suffrage; an elector; a suffragist; as, as, an independent voter. 

VOTING:  a. & n. from Vote, v. Voting paper, a form of ballot containing the names of more candidates than there are offices to be filled, the voter making a mark against the preferred names. [Eng.] 

VOTIST:  One who makes a vow. [Obs.] Chapman. 

VOTIVE:  Given by vow, or in fulfillment of a vow; consecrated by a vow; devoted; as, votive offerings; a votive tablet. "Votive incense." Keble. We reached a votive stone, that bears the name Of Aloys Reding. Wordsworth. Embellishments of flowers and votive garlands. Motley. Votive medal, a medal struck in grateful commemoration of some auspicious event.  -- Votive offering, an offering in fulfillment of a religious vow, as of one's person or property.  -- Vo"tive*ly, adv.  -- Vo"tive*ness, n. 

VOTRESS:  A votaress. Dryden. 

VOUCH:  To call into court to warrant and defend, or to make good a warranty of title. He vouches the tenant in tail, who vouches over the common vouchee. Blackstone.  Syn.  -- To obtest; declare; affirm; attest; warrant; confirm; asseverate; aver; protest; assure. 

VOUCH:  Warrant; attestation. [Obs.] The vouch of very malice itself. Shak. 

VOUCHEE:  The person who is vouched, or called into court to support or make good his warranty of title in the process of common recovery. Blackstone. 

VOUCHMENT:  A solemn assertion. [R.] 

VOUCHOR:  Same as Voucher, 3 (b). 

VOUCHSAFE:  To condescend; to deign; to yield; to descend or stoop. Chaucer. Vouchsafe, O Lord, to keep us this day without sin. Bk. of Com. Prayer. Vouchsafe, illustrious Ormond, to behold What power the charms of beauty had of old. Dryden. 

VOUCHSAFEMENT:  The act of vouchsafing, or that which is vouchsafed; a gift or grant in condescension. Glanvill. 

VOUSSOIR:  One of the wedgelike stones of which an arch is composed. 

VOW:  To make a vow, or solemn promise. Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay. Eccl. v. 5. 

VOWEL:  A vocal, or sometimes a whispered, sound modified by resonance in the oral passage, the peculiar resonance in each case giving to each several vowel its distinctive character or quality as a sound of speech; -- distinguished from a consonant in that the latter, whether made with or without vocality, derives its character in every case from some kind of obstructive action by the mouth organs. Also, a letter or character which represents such a sound. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 5, 146-149.  Note: In the English language, the written vowels are a, e, i, o, u, and sometimes w and y. The spoken vowels are much more numerous. Close vowel. See under Close, a.  -- Vowel point. See under Point, n. 

VOWEL:  Of or pertaining to a vowel; vocal. 

VOWELED:  Furnished with vowels. [Written also vowelled.] Dryden. 

VOWELISH:  Of the nature of a vowel. [R.] "The power [of w] is always vowelish." B. Jonson. 

VOWELISM:  The use of vowels. [R.] 

VOWELIZE:  To give the quality, sound, or office of a vowel to. 

VOWER:  One who makes a vow. Bale.  VOW-FELLOW Vow"-fel`low, n.  One bound by the same vow as another. [R.] Shak. 

VOX:  A voice. Vox humana ( Etym: [L., human voice] (Mus.), a reed stop in an organ, made to imitate the human voice.  VOX ANGELICA Vox` an*gel"i*ca. [L. angelica angelic.] (Music)  An organ stop of delicate stringlike quality, having for each finger key a pair of pipes, of which one is tuned slightly sharp to give a wavy effect to their joint tone. 

VOYAGE:  To take a voyage; especially, to sail or pass by water. A mind forever Voyaging through strange seas of thought alone. Wordsworth. 

VOYAGE:  To travel; to pass over; to traverse. With what pain [I] voyaged the unreal, vast, unbounded deep. Milton. 

VOYAGEABLE:  That may be sailed over, as water or air; navigable. 

VOYAGER:  One who voyages; one who sails or passes by sea or water. 

VOYAGEUR:  A traveler; -- applied in Canada to a man employed by the fur companies in transporting goods by the rivers and across the land, to and from the remote stations in the Northwest. 

VRAISEMBLANCE:  The appearance of truth; verisimilitude.  VUGG; VUGH Vugg, Vugh, n. (Mining)  A cavity in a lode; -- called also vogle. 

VULCAN:  The god of fire, who presided over the working of metals; -- answering to the Greek Hephæstus. 

VULCANIAN:  Volcanic. 

VULCANICITY:  Volcanicity. 

VULCANISM:  Volcanism. 

VULCANIST:  A volcanist. 

VULCANITE:  Hard rubber produced by vulcanizing with a large proportion of sulphur. 

VULCANIZATION:  The act or process of imparting to caoutchouc, gutta-percha, or the like, greater elasticity, durability, or hardness by heating with sulphur under pressure. 

VULCANIZE:  To change the properties of, as caoutchouc, or India rubber, by the process of vulcanization. Vulcanized fiber, paper, paper pulp, or other fiber, chemically treated, as with metallic chlorides, so as to form a substance resembling ebonite in texture, hardness, etc. Knight.  -- Vulcanized rubber, India rubber, vulcanized. 

VULCANIZER:  One who, or that which, vulcanizes; esp., an apparatus for vulcanizing caoutchouc. 

VULCANO:  A volcano. [Obs.] 

VULCANOLOGY:  The science which treats of phenomena due to plutonic action, as in volcanoes, hot springs, etc. [R.]  VULCAN POWDER Vul"can pow"der.  A dynamite composed of nitroglycerin (30 parts), sodium nitrate (52.5), charcoal (10.5), and sulphur (7), used in mining and blasting. 

VULGARIAN:  A vulgar person; one who has vulgar ideas. Used also adjectively. 

VULGARIZATION:  The act or process of making vulgar, or common. 

VULGARIZE:  To make vulgar, or common. Exhortation vulgarized by low wit. V. Knox. 

VULGARLY:  In a vulgar manner. 

VULGARNESS:  The quality of being vulgar. 

VULGATE:  An ancient Latin version of the Scripture, and the only version which the Roman Church admits to be authentic; -- so called from its common use in the Latin Church.  Note: The Vulgate was made by Jerome at the close of the 4th century. The Old Testament he translated mostly from the Hebrew and Chaldaic, and the New Testament he revised from an older Latin version. The Douay version, so called, is an English translation from the Vulgate. See Douay Bible. 

VULGATE:  Of or pertaining to the Vulgate, or the old Latin version of the Scriptures. 

VULNERABILITY:  The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerableness. 

VULNERABLENESS:  The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerability. 

VULNERARY:  Useful in healing wounds; adapted to the cure of external injuries; as, vulnerary plants or potions. "Such vulnerary remedies." Sir W. Scott.  -- n. Etym: [Cf. F. vulnéraire.] (Med.)  A vulnerary remedy. 

VULNERATE:  To wound; to hurt. [Obs.] 

VULNERATION:  The act of wounding, or the state of being wounded. [Obs.] 

VULNEROSE:  Full of wounds; wounded.  VULNIFIC; VULNIFICAL Vul*nif"ic, Vul*nif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. vulnificus; vulnus a wound + facere to make.]  Causing wounds; inflicting wounds; wounding. 

VULNOSE:  Having wounds; vulnerose. [R.] 

VULPES:  A genus of Carnivora including the foxes. 

VULPIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained from a lichen (Cetraria vulpina) as a yellow or red crystalline substance which on decomposition yields pulvinic acid. 

VULPICIDE:  One who kills a fox, except in hunting; also, the act of so killing a fox. [Written also vulpecide.] 

VULPINE:  Of or pertaining to the fox; resembling the fox; foxy; cunning; crafty; artful. Vulpine phalangist (Zoöl.), an Australian carnivorous marsupial (Phalangista, or Trichosurus, vulpina); -- called also vulpine phalanger, and vulpine opossum. 

VULPINIC:  Same as Vulpic. 

VULPINISM:  The quality of being cunning like the fox; craft; artfulness. [R.] He was without guile, and had no vulpinism at all. Carlyle. 

VULPINITE:  A scaly granular variety of anhydrite of a grayish white color, used for ornamental purposes. 

VULTERN:  The brush turkey (Talegallus Lathami) of Australia. See Brush turkey. 

VULTURE:  Any one of numerous species of rapacious birds belonging to Vultur, Cathartes, Catharista, and various other genera of the family Vulturidæ.  Note: In most of the species the head and neck are naked or nearly so. They feed chiefly on carrion. The condor, king vulture, turkey buzzard, and black vulture (Catharista atrata) are well known American species. The griffin, lammergeir, and Pharaoh's chicken, or Egyptian vulture, are common Old World vultures. 

VULTURINE:  Of or pertaining to a vulture; resembling a vulture in qualities or looks; as, the vulturine sea eagle (Gypohierax Angolensis); vulturine rapacity. The vulturine nose, which smells nothing but corruption, is no credit to its possessor. C. Kingsley. 

VULTURISH:  Vulturous. 

VULTURISM:  The quality or state of being like a vulture; rapaciousness. 

VULTUROUS:  Like a vulture; rapacious. 

VULVA:  The external parts of the female genital organs; sometimes, the opening between the projecting parts of the external organs.  2. (Zoöl.)  The orifice of the oviduct of an insect or other invertebrate. 

VULVIFORM:  Like a cleft with projecting edges. 

VULVITIS:  Inflammation of the vulva.  VULVO-UTERINE Vul`vo-u"ter*ine, a. (Anat.)  Pertaining both to the vulva and the uterus. 

VULVOVAGINAL:  Pertaining both to the vulva and the vagina. 

VYCE:  A kind of clamp with gimlet points for holding a barrel head while the staves are being closed around it. Knight. 

VYING:  a. & n. from Vie.  -- Vy"ing*ly, adv. 

W:  W, the twenty-third letter of the English alphabet, is usually a consonant, but sometimes it is a vowel, forming the second element of certain diphthongs, as in few, how. It takes its written form and its name from the repetition of a V, this being the original form of the Roman capital letter which we call U. Etymologically it is most related to v and u. See V, and U. Some of the uneducated classes in England, especially in London, confuse w and v, substituting the one for the other, as weal for veal, and veal for weal; wine for vine, and vine for wine, etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 266-268. 

WAAG:  The grivet. 

WAAHOO:  The burning bush; -- said to be called after a quack medicine made from it. 

WABBLE:  To move staggeringly or unsteadily from one side to the other; to vacillate; to move the manner of a rotating disk when the axis of rotation is inclined to that of the disk; -- said of a turning or whirling body; as, a top wabbles; a buzz saw wabbles. wobble. 

WABBLE:  A hobbling, unequal motion, as of a wheel unevenly hung; a staggering to and fro. 

WABBLY:  Inclined to wabble; wabbling.  WACKE; WACKY Wack"e, Wack"y, n. Etym: [G. wacke, MHG.wacke a large stone, OHG. waggo a pebble.] (Geol.)  A soft, earthy, dark-colored rock or clay derived from the alteration of basalt. 

WAD:  Woad. [Obs.] 

WADDIE:  See Waddy. 

WADDLE:  To walk with short steps, swaying the body from one side to the other, like a duck or very fat person; to move clumsily and totteringly along; to toddle; to stumble; as, a child waddles when he begins to walk; a goose waddles. Shak. She drawls her words, and waddles in her pace. Young. 

WADDLE:  To trample or tread down, as high grass, by walking through it. [R.] Drayton. 

WADDLER:  One who, or that which, waddles. 

WADDLINGLY:  In a waddling manner. 

WADDY:  To attack or beat with a waddy. 

WADDYWOOD:  An Australian tree (Pittosporum bicolor); also, its wood, used in making waddies. 

WADE:  Woad. [Obs.] Mortimer. 

WADE:  To pass or cross by wading; as, he waded . 

WADE:  The act of wading. [Colloq.] 

WADER:  Any long-legged bird that wades in the water in search of food, especially any species of limicoline or grallatorial birds; -- called also wading bird. See Illust. g, under Aves. 

WADING:  a. & n. from Wade, v. Wading bird. (Zoöl.) See Wader, 2. 

WADMOL:  A coarse, hairy, woolen cloth, formerly used for garments by the poor, and for various other purposes. [Spelled also wadmal, wadmeal, wadmoll, wadmel, etc.] Beck (Draper's Dict.). Sir W. Scott. 

WADSET:  A kind of pledge or mortgage. [Written also wadsett.] 

WADSETTER:  One who holds by a wadset. 

WADY:  A ravine through which a brook flows; the channel of a water course, which is dry except in the rainy season. 

WAE:  A wave. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WAEG:  The kittiwake. [Scot.] 

WAFER:  A thin cake made of flour and other ingredients. Wafers piping hot out of the gleed. Chaucer. The curious work in pastry, the fine cakes, wafers, and marchpanes. Holland. A woman's oaths are wafers -- break with making B. Jonson.  2. (Eccl.)  A thin cake or piece of bread (commonly unleavened, circular, and stamped with a crucifix or with the sacred monogram) used in the Eucharist, as in the Roman Catholic Church.  3. An adhesive disk of dried paste, made of flour, gelatin, isinglass, or the like, and coloring matter, -- used in sealing letters and other documents. Wafer cake, a sweet, thin cake. Shak.  -- Wafer irons, or Wafer tongs (Cookery), a pincher-shaped contrivance, having flat plates, or blades, between which wafers are baked.  -- Wafer woman, a woman who sold wafer cakes; also, one employed in amorous intrigues. Beau. & Fl. 

WAFER:  To seal or close with a wafer. 

WAFERER:  A dealer in the cakes called wafers; a confectioner. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WAFT:  To be moved, or to pass, on a buoyant medium; to float. And now the shouts waft near the citadel. Dryden. 

WAFT:  A knot, or stop, in the middle of a flag. [Written also wheft.]  Note: A flag with a waft in it, when hoisted at the staff, or half way to the gaff, means, a man overboard; at the peak, a desire to communicate; at the masthead, "Recall boats." 

WAFTAGE:  Conveyance on a buoyant medium, as air or water. Shak. Boats prepared for waftage to and fro. Drayton. 

WAFTURE:  The act of waving; a wavelike motion; a waft. R. Browning. An angry wafture of your hand. Shak. 

WAG:  To move one way and the other with quick turns; to shake to and fro; to move vibratingly; to cause to vibrate, as a part of the body; as, to wag the head. No discerner durst wag his tongue in censure. Shak. Every one that passeth thereby shall be astonished, and wag his head. Jer. xviii. 16.  Note: Wag expresses specifically the motion of the head and body used in buffoonery, mirth, derision, sport, and mockery. 

WAG:  A man full of sport and humor; a ludicrous fellow; a humorist; a wit; a joker. We wink at wags when they offend. Dryden. A counselor never pleaded without a piece of pack thread in his hand, which he used to twist about a finger all the while he was speaking; the wags used to call it the thread of his discourse. Addison. 

WAGATI:  A small East Indian wild cat (Felis wagati), regarded by some as a variety of the leopard cat. 

WAGE:  To give security for the performance of. Burrill. To wage battle (O. Eng. Law), to give gage, or security, for joining in the duellum, or combat. See Wager of battel, under Wager, n. Burrill.  -- To wage one's law (Law), to give security to make one's law. See Wager of law, under Wager, n. 

WAGE:  To bind one's self; to engage. [Obs.] 

WAGEL:  See Waggel. 

WAGENBOOM:  A south African proteaceous tree (Protea grandiflora); also, its tough wood, used for making wagon wheels. 

WAGER:  A contract by which two parties or more agree that a certain sum of money, or other thing, shall be paid or delivered to one of them, on the happening or not happening of an uncertain event. Bouvier.  Note: At common law a wager is considered as a legal contract which the courts must enforce unless it be on a subject contrary to public policy, or immoral, or tending to the detriment of the public, or affecting the interest, feelings, or character of a third person. In many of the United States an action can not be sustained upon any wager or bet. Chitty. Bouvier.  3. That on which bets are laid; the subject of a bet. Wager of battel, or Wager of battle (O. Eng. Law), the giving of gage, or pledge, for trying a cause by single combat, formerly allowed in military, criminal, and civil causes. In writs of right, where the trial was by champions, the tenant produced his champion, who, by throwing down his glove as a gage, thus waged, or stipulated, battle with the champion of the demandant, who, by taking up the glove, accepted the challenge. The wager of battel, which has been long in disuse, was abolished in England in 1819, by a statute passed in consequence of a defendant's having waged his battle in a case which arose about that period. See Battel.  -- Wager of law (Law), the giving of gage, or sureties, by a defendant in an action of debt, that at a certain day assigned he would take a law, or oath, in open court, that he did not owe the debt, and at the same time bring with him eleven neighbors (called compurgators), who should avow upon their oaths that they believed in their consciences that he spoke the truth.  -- Wager policy. (Insurance Law) See under Policy. 

WAGER:  To hazard on the issue of a contest, or on some question that is to be decided, or on some casualty; to lay; to stake; to bet. And wagered with him Pieces of gold 'gainst this which he wore. Shak. 

WAGER:  To make a bet; to lay a wager. 'T was merry when You wagered on your angling. Shak. 

WAGERER:  One who wagers, or lays a bet. 

WAGERING:  Hazarding; pertaining to the act of one who wagers. Wagering policy. (Com.) See Wager policy, under Policy. 

WAGES:  A compensation given to a hired person for services; price paid for labor; recompense; hire. See Wage, n., 2. The wages of sin is death. Rom. vi. 23. Wages fund (Polit. Econ.), the aggregate capital existing at any time in any country, which theoretically is unconditionally destined to be paid out in wages. It was formerly held, by Mill and other political economists, that the average rate of wages in any country at any time depended upon the relation of the wages fund to the number of laborers. This theory has been greatly modified by the discovery of other conditions affecting wages, which it does not take into account. Encyc. Brit.  Syn.  -- See under Wage, n. 

WAGGEL:  The young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus), formerly considered a distinct species. [Prov. Eng.] 

WAGGERY:  The manner or action of a wag; mischievous merriment; sportive trick or gayety; good-humored sarcasm; pleasantry; jocularity; as, the waggery of a schoolboy. Locke. A drollery and lurking waggery of expression. W. Irving. 

WAGGIE:  The pied wagtail. [Prov. Eng.] 

WAGGLE:  To reel, sway, or move from side to side; to move with a wagging motion; to waddle. Why do you go nodding and waggling so L'Estrange. 

WAGGLE:  To move frequently one way and the other; to wag; as, a bird waggles his tail.  WAG-HALTER Wag"-hal`ter, n. Etym: [Wag + halter.]  One who moves or wears a halter; one likely to be hanged. [Colloq. & Obs.] I can tell you, I am a mad wag-halter. Marston. 

WAGNERIAN:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling the style of, Richard Wagner, the German musical composer. 

WAGNERITE:  A fluophosphate of magnesia, occurring in yellowish crystals, and also in massive forms. 

WAGON:  The Dipper, or Charles's Wain.  Note: This word and its compounds are often written with two g's (waggon, waggonage, etc.), chiefly in England. The forms wagon, wagonage, etc., are, however, etymologically preferable, and in the United States are almost universally used. Wagon boiler. See the Note under Boiler, 3.  -- Wagon ceiling (Arch.), a semicircular, or wagon-headed, arch or ceiling; -- sometimes used also of a ceiling whose section is polygonal instead of semicircular.  -- Wagon master, an officer or person in charge of one or more wagons, especially of those used for transporting freight, as the supplies of an army, and the like.  -- Wagon shoe, a skid, or shoe, for retarding the motion of a wagon wheel; a drag.  -- Wagon vault. (Arch.) See under 1st Vault. 

WAGON:  To transport in a wagon or wagons; as, goods are wagoned from city to city. 

WAGON:  To wagon goods as a business; as, the man wagons between Philadelphia and its suburbs. 

WAGONER:  The constellation Charles's Wain, or Ursa Major. See Ursa major, under Ursa. 

WAGONETTE:  A kind of pleasure wagon, uncovered and with seats extended along the sides, designed to carry six or eight persons besides the driver. 

WAGONFUL:  As much as a wagon will hold; enough to fill a wagon; a wagonload.  WAGON-HEADED Wag"on-head`ed, a.  Having a top, or head, shaped like the top of a covered wagon, or resembling in section or outline an inverted U, thus as, a wagonheaded ceiling. 

WAGONLOAD:  Same as Wagonful.  WAGON-ROOFED Wag"on-roofed`, a.  Having a roof, or top, shaped like an inverted U; wagon-headed. 

WAGONRY:  Conveyance by means of a wagon or wagons. [Obs.] Milton. 

WAGONWRIGHT:  One who makes wagons. 

WAGTAIL:  Any one of many species of Old World singing birds belonging to Motacilla and several allied genera of the family Motacillidæ. They have the habit of constantly jerking their long tails up and down, whence the name. Field wagtail, any one of several species of wagtails of the genus Budytes having the tail shorter, the legs longer, and the hind claw longer and straighter, than do the water wagtails. Most of the species are yellow beneath. Called also yellow wagtail.  -- Garden wagtail, the Indian black-breasted wagtail (Nemoricola Indica).  -- Pied wagtail, the common European water wagtail (Motacilla lugubris). It is variegated with black and white. The name is applied also to other allied species having similar colors. Called also pied dishwasher.  -- Wagtail flycatcher, a true flycatcher (Sauloprocta motacilloides) common in Southern Australia, where it is very tame, and frequents stock yards and gardens and often builds its nest about houses; -- called also black fantail.  -- Water wagtail. (a) Any one of several species of wagtails of the restricted genus Motacilla. They live chiefly on the shores of ponds and streams. (b) The American water thrush. See Water thrush.  -- Wood wagtail, an Asiatic wagtail; (Calobates sulphurea) having a slender bill and short legs. 

WAH:  The panda. 

WAHABEE:  A follower of Abdel Wahab (b. 1691; d. 1787), a reformer of Mohammedanism. His doctrines prevail particularly among the Bedouins, and the sect, though checked in its influence, extends to most parts of Arabia, and also into India. [Written also Wahaby.] 

WAHOO:  A dark blue scombroid food fish (Acanthocibium solandri or petus) of Florida and the West Indies. 

WAID:  Oppressed with weight; crushed; weighed down. [Obs.] Tusser. 

WAIF:  Goods found of which the owner is not known; originally, such goods as a pursued thief threw away to prevent being apprehended, which belonged to the king unless the owner made pursuit of the felon, took him, and brought him to justice. Blackstone.  2. Hence, anything found, or without an owner; that which comes along, as it were, by chance. "Rolling in his mind old waifs of rhyme." Tennyson.  3. A wanderer; a castaway; a stray; a homeless child. A waif Desirous to return, and not received. Cowper. 

WAIFT:  A waif. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WAIL:  To choose; to select. [Obs.] "Wailed wine and meats." Henryson. 

WAIL:  To lament; to bewail; to grieve over; as, to wail one's death. Shak. 

WAIL:  To express sorrow audibly; to make mournful outcry; to weep. Therefore I will wail and howl. Micah i. 8. 

WAIL:  Loud weeping; violent lamentation; wailing. "The wail of the forest." Longfellow. 

WAILER:  One who wails or laments. 

WAILERESS:  A woman who wails. [Obs.] 

WAILFUL:  Sorrowful; mournful. " Like wailful widows." Spenser. "Wailful sonnets." Shak. 

WAILINGLY:  In a wailing manner. 

WAILMENT:  Lamentation; loud weeping; wailing. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket. 

WAIMENT:  See Wayment. [Obs.] 

WAINABLE:  Capable of being plowed or cultivated; arable; tillable. [Obs.] Cowell. 

WAINAGE:  A finding of carriages, carts, etc., for the transportation of goods, produce, etc. Ainsworth. 

WAINAGE:  See Gainage, a. 

WAINBOTE:  See Cartbote. See also the Note under Bote. 

WAINSCOT:  A wooden lining or boarding of the walls of apartments, usually made in panels.  3. 3. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of European moths of the family Leucanidæ.  Note: They are reddish or yellowish, streaked or lined with black and white. Their larvæ feed on grasses and sedges. 

WAINSCOT:  To line with boards or panelwork, or as if with panelwork; as, to wainscot a hall. Music soundeth better in chambers wainscoted than hanged. Bacon. The other is wainscoted with looking-glass. Addison. 

WAINWRIGHT:  Same as Wagonwright. 

WAIR:  A piece of plank two yard Bailey. 

WAISTCLOTH:  A covering of canvas or tarpaulin for the hammocks, stowed on the nettings, between the quarterdeck and the forecastle. 

WAISTCOATEER:  One wearing a waistcoat; esp., a woman wearing one uncovered, or thought fit for such a habit; hence, a loose woman; strumpet. [Obs.] Do you think you are here, sir, Amongst your waistcoateers, your base wenches Beau. & Fl. 

WAISTCOATING:  A fabric designed for waistcoats; esp., one in which there is a pattern, differently colored yarns being used. 

WAISTER:  A seaman, usually a green hand or a broken-down man, stationed in the waist of a vessel of war. R. H. Dana, Jr. 

WAIT:  Hautboys, or oboes, played by town musicians; not used in the singular. [Obs.] Halliwell.  5. pl.  Musicians who sing or play at night or in the early morning, especially at Christmas time; serenaders; musical watchmen. [Written formerly wayghtes.] Hark! are the waits abroad Beau & Fl. The sound of the waits, rude as may be their minstrelsy, breaks upon the mild watches of a winter night with the effect of perfect harmony. W. Irving. To lay wait, to prepare an ambuscade.  -- To lie in wait. See under 4th Lie.  WAIT-A-BIT Wait"-a-bit`, n.  Any of several plants bearing thorns or stiff hooked appendages, which catch and tear the clothing, as:  (a) The greenbrier.  (b) Any of various species of hawthorn.  (c) In South Africa, one of numerous acacias and mimosas.  (d) The grapple plant.  (e) The prickly ash. 

WAITING:  a. & n. from Wait, v. In waiting, in attendance; as, lords in waiting. [Eng.] -- Waiting gentlewoman, a woman who waits upon a person of rank.  -- Waiting maid, Waiting woman, a maid or woman who waits upon another as a personal servant. 

WAITINGLY:  By waiting. 

WAITRESS:  A female waiter or attendant; a waiting maid or waiting woman.  WAIT--WHILE Wait"-a-while`, n.  (a) One of the Australian wattle trees (Acacia colletioides), so called from the impenetrability of the thicket which it makes.  (b) = Wait-a-bit. 

WAIVE:  A woman put out of the protection of the law. See Waive, v. t., 3 (b), and the Note. 

WAIVE:  To desert; to abandon. Burrill.  Note: The term was applied to a woman, in the same sense as outlaw to a man. A woman could not be outlawed, in the proper sense of the word, because, according to Bracton, she was never in law, that is, in a frankpledge or decennary; but she might be waived, and held as abandoned. Burrill. 

WAIVE:  To turn aside; to recede. [Obs.] To waive from the word of Solomon. Chaucer. 

WAIVER:  The act of waiving, or not insisting on, some right, claim, or privilege. 

WAIVURE:  See Waiver. [R.] 

WAIWODE:  See Waywode.  WAI WU PU Wai Wu Pu. [Chinese wai foreign + wu affairs + pu office.]  The Department of Foreign Affairs in the Chinese government.  The Tsung-li Yamen, or Foreign Office, created by a decree of January 19, 1861, was in July, 1902, superseded by the formation of a new Foreign Office called the Wai Wu Pu, . . . with precedence before all other boards. J. Scott Keltie. 

WAKE:  The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any track; as, the wake of an army. This effect followed immediately in the wake of his earliest exertions. De Quincey. Several humbler persons . . . formed quite a procession in the dusty wake of his chariot wheels. Thackeray. 

WAKEFUL:  Not sleeping; indisposed to sleep; watchful; vigilant. Dissembling sleep, but wakeful with the fright. Dryden. -- Wake"ful*ly, adv.  -- Wake"ful*ness, n. 

WAKEN:  To wake; to cease to sleep; to be awakened. Early, Turnus wakening with the light. Dryden. 

WAKENER:  One who wakens. 

WAKENING:  The revival of an action. Burrill. They were too much ashamed to bring any wakening of the process against Janet. Sir W. Scott. 

WAKER:  One who wakes.  WAKE-ROBIN Wake"-rob`in, n. (Bot.)  Any plant of the genus Arum, especially, in England, the cuckoopint (Arum maculatum).  Note: In America the name is given to several species of Trillium, and sometimes to the Jack-in-the-pulpit. 

WAKETIME:  Time during which one is awake. [R.] Mrs. Browning. 

WAKF:  The granting or dedication of property in trust for a pious purpose, that is, to some object that tends to the good of mankind, as to support a mosque or caravansary, to provide for support of one's family, kin, or neighbors, to benefit some particular person or persons and afterward the poor, etc.; also, the trust so created, or the property in trust. 

WAKIF:  The person creating a wakf. 

WALAWAY:  See Welaway. [Obs.] 

WALD:  A forest; -- used as a termination of names. See Weald. 

WALDENSES:  A sect of dissenters from the ecclesiastical system of the Roman Catholic Church, who in the 13th century were driven by persecution to the valleys of Piedmont, where the sect survives. They profess substantially Protestant principles. 

WALDENSIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Waldenses.  -- n.  One Holding the Waldensian doctrines. 

WALDGRAVE:  In the old German empire, the head forest keeper. 

WALDHEIMIA:  A genus of brachiopods of which many species are found in the fossil state. A few still exist in the deep sea. 

WALE:  A timber bolted to a row of piles to secure them together and in position. Knight.  4. (Naut.) (a) pl.  Certain sets or strakes of the outside planking of a vessel; as, the main wales, or the strakes of planking under the port sills of the gun deck; channel wales, or those along the spar deck, etc. (b) A wale knot, or wall knot. Wale knot. (Naut.) See Wall knot, under 1st Wall. 

WALER:  A horse imported from New South Wales; also, any Australian horse. [Colloq.]  Kipling.   The term originated in India, whither many horses are exported from Australia (mostly from New South Wales), especially for the use of cavalry. 

WALHALLA:  See Valhalla. 

WALING:  Same as Wale, n., 4. 

WALK:  To subject, as cloth or yarn, to the fulling process; to full. [Obs. or Scot.] To walk the plank, to walk off the plank into the water and be drowned; -- an expression derived from the practice of pirates who extended a plank from the side of a ship, and compelled those whom they would drown to walk off into the water; figuratively, to vacate an office by compulsion. Bartlett. 

WALKABLE:  Fit to be walked on; capable of being walked on or over. [R.] Swift. 

WALKER:  A forest officer appointed to walk over a certain space for inspection; a forester.  4. Etym: [AS. wealcere. See Walk, v. t., 3.]  A fuller of cloth. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] She cursed the weaver and the walker The cloth that had wrought. Percy's Reliques.  5. (Zoöl.)  Any ambulatorial orthopterous insect, as a stick insect. 

WALKING:  a. & n. from Walk, v. Walking beam. See Beam, 10.  -- Walking crane, a kind of traveling crane. See under Crane.  -- Walking fern. (Bot.) See Walking leaf, below.  -- Walking fish (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of Asiatic fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, some of which, as O. marulius, become over four feet long. They have a special cavity over the gills lined with a membrane adapted to retain moisture to aid in respiration, and are thus able to travel considerable distances over the land at night, whence the name. They construct a curious nest for their young. Called also langya.  -- Walking gentleman (Theater), an actor who usually fills subordinate parts which require a gentlemanly appearance but few words. [Cant] -- Walking lady (Theater), an actress who usually fills such parts as require only a ladylike appearance on the stage. [Cant] -- Walking leaf. (a) (Bot.) A little American fern (Camptosorus rhizophyllus); -- so called because the fronds taper into slender prolongations which often root at the apex, thus producing new plants. (b) (Zoöl.) A leaf insect. See under Leaf.  -- Walking papers, or Walking ticket, an order to leave; dismissal, as from office. [Colloq.] Bartlett.  -- Walking stick. (a) A stick or staff carried in the hand for hand for support or amusement when walking; a cane. (b) (Zoöl.) A stick insect; -- called also walking straw. See Illust. of Stick insect, under Stick.  -- Walking wheel (Mach.), a prime mover consisting of a wheel driven by the weight of men or animals walking either in it or on it; a treadwheel.  WALK-MILL Walk"-mill`, n. Etym: [Walk to Walking Leaf, or full + mill.]  A fulling mill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  WALK-OVER Walk"-o`ver, n.  In racing, the going over a course by a horse which has no competitor for the prize; hence, colloquially, a one-sided contest; an uncontested, or an easy, victory. 

WALKYR:  See Valkyria. 

WALL:  A kind of knot often used at the end of a rope; a wall knot; a wale. Wall knot, a knot made by unlaying the strands of a rope, and making a bight with the first strand, then passing the second over the end of the first, and the third over the end of the second and through the bight of the first; a wale knot. Wall knots may be single or double, crowned or double-crowned. 

WALLABA:  A leguminous tree (Eperua falcata) of Demerara, with pinnate leaves and clusters of red flowers. The reddish brown wood is used for palings and shingles. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 

WALLABY:  Any one of numerous species of kangaroos belonging to the genus Halmaturus, native of Australia and Tasmania, especially the smaller species, as the brush kangaroo (H. Bennettii) and the pademelon (H. thetidis). The wallabies chiefly inhabit the wooded district and bushy plains. [Written also wallabee, and whallabee.] 

WALLACHIAN:  Of or pertaining to Wallachia, a former principality, now part of the kingdom, of Roumania. -- n.  An inhabitant of Wallachia; also, the language of the Wallachians; Roumanian. 

WALLACK:  See Wallachian. 

WALLAH:  A black variety of the jaguar; -- called also tapir tiger. [Written also walla.] 

WALLAROO:  Any one of several species of kangaroos of the genus Macropus, especially M. robustus, sometimes called the great wallaroo. 

WALLBIRD:  The spotted flycatcher. [Prov. Eng.] 

WALLER:  One who builds walls. 

WALLER:  The wels.  WALLERIAN DEGENERATION Wal*le"ri*an de*gen`er*a"tion. (Med.)  A form of degeneration occurring in nerve fibers as a result of their division; -- so called from Dr. Waller, who published an account of it in 1850. 

WALLETEER:  One who carries a wallet; a foot traveler; a tramping beggar. [Colloq.] Wright.  WALL-EYE Wall"-eye`, n. Etym: [See Wall-eyed.]  1. An eye in which the iris is of a very light gray or whitish color; -- said usually of horses. Booth.  Note: Jonson has defined wall-eye to be "a disease in the crystalline humor of the eye; glaucoma." But glaucoma is not a disease of the crystalline humor, nor is wall-eye a disease at all, but merely a natural blemish. Tully. In the north of England, as Brockett states, persons are said to be wall-eyed when the white of the eye is very large and distorted, or on one side.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion vitreum) having large and prominent eyes; -- called also glasseye, pike perch, yellow pike, and wall-eyed perch. (b) A California surf fish (Holconotus argenteus). (c) The alewife; -- called also wall-eyed herring.  WALL-EYED Wall"-eyed`, a. Etym: [Icel. valdeygedhr, or vagleygr; fr. vagl a beam, a beam in the eye (akin to Sw. vagel a roost, a perch, a sty in the eye) + eygr having eyes (from auga eye). See Eye.]  Having an eye of a very light gray or whitish color. Booth.  Note: Shakespeare, in using wall-eyed as a term of reproach (as "wall-eyed rage," a "wall-eyed wretch"), alludes probably to the idea of unnatural or distorted vision. See the Note under Wall-eye. It is an eye which is utterly and incurably perverted, an eye that knows no pity. 

WALLFLOWER:  A perennial, cruciferous plant (Cheiranthus Cheiri), with sweet-scented flowers varying in color from yellow to orange and deep red. In Europe it very common on old walls.  Note: The name is sometimes extended to other species of Cheiranthus and of the related genus Erysimum, especially the American Western wallflower (Erysimum asperum), a biennial herb with orange-yellow flowers.  2. A lady at a ball, who, either from choice, or because not asked to dance, remains a spectator. [Colloq.] 

WALLHICK:  The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dryobates minor). [Prov. Eng.] 

WALLOONS:  A Romanic people inhabiting that part of Belgium which comprises the provinces of Hainaut, Namur, Liége, and Luxembourg, and about one third of Brabant; also, the language spoken by this people. Used also adjectively. [Written also Wallons.] "A base Walloon . . . thrust Talbot with a spear." Shak. Walloon guard, the bodyguard of the Spanish monarch; -- so called because formerly consisting of Walloons. 

WALLOP:  To move quickly, but with great effort; to gallop. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

WALLOP:  A quick, rolling movement; a gallop. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

WALLOW:  To roll; esp., to roll in anything defiling or unclean. "Wallow thyself in ashes." Jer. vi. 26. 

WALLOW:  A kind of rolling walk. One taught the toss, and one the new French wallow. Dryden. 

WALLOWER:  A lantern wheel; a trundle. 

WALLOWISH:  Flat; insipid. [Obs.] Overbury.  WALL-PLAT Wall"-plat`, n. (Zoöl.)  The spotted flycatcher. It builds its nest on walls. [Prov. Eng.]  WALL-SIDED Wall"-sid`ed, a. (Naut.)  Having sides nearly perpendicular; -- said of certain vessels to distinguish them from those having flaring sides, or sides tumbling home (see under Tumble, v. i.).  WALL STREET Wall Street.  A street towards the southern end of the borough of Manhattan, New York City, extending from Broadway to the East River; -- so called from the old wall which extended along it when the city belonged to the Dutch. It is the chief financial center of the United States, hence the name is often used for the money market and the financial interests of the country. 

WALLWORT:  The dwarf elder, or danewort (Sambucus Ebulus). 

WALM:  To roll; to spout; to boil up. [Obs.] Holland. 

WALNUT:  The fruit or nut of any tree of the genus Juglans; also, the tree, and its timber. The seven or eight known species are all natives of the north temperate zone.  Note: In some parts of America, especially in New England, the name walnut is given to several species of hickory (Carya), and their fruit. Ash-leaved walnut, a tree (Juglans fraxinifolia), native in Transcaucasia.  -- Black walnut, a North American tree (J. nigra) valuable for its purplish brown wood, which is extensively used in cabinetwork and for gunstocks. The nuts are thick-shelled, and nearly globular.  -- English, or European, walnut, a tree (J. regia), native of Asia from the Caucasus to Japan, valuable for its timber and for its excellent nuts, which are also called Madeira nuts.  -- Walnut brown, a deep warm brown color, like that of the heartwood of the black walnut.  -- Walnut oil, oil extracted from walnut meats. It is used in cooking, making soap, etc.  -- White walnut, a North American tree (J. cinerea), bearing long, oval, thick-shelled, oily nuts, commonly called butternuts. See Butternut. 

WALRUS:  A very large marine mammal (Trichecus rosmarus) of the Seal family, native of the Arctic Ocean. The male has long and powerful tusks descending from the upper jaw. It uses these in procuring food and in fighting. It is hunted for its oil, ivory, and skin. It feeds largely on mollusks. Called also morse.  Note: The walrus of the North Pacific and Behring Strait (Trichecus obesus) is regarded by some as a distinct species, by others as a variety of the common walrus. 

WALTER:  To roll or wallow; to welter. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

WALTRON:  A walrus. [Obs.] Woodward. 

WALTY:  Liable to roll over; crank; as, a walty ship. [R.] Longfellow. 

WALTZ:  A dance performed by two persons in circular figures with a whirling motion; also, a piece of music composed in triple measure for this kind of dance. 

WALTZ:  To dance a waltz. 

WALTZER:  A person who waltzes. 

WALWE:  To wallow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WALY:  An exclamation of grief. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

WAMBLE:  Disturbance of the stomach; a feeling of nausea. Holland.  WAMBLE-CROPPED Wam"ble-cropped`, a.  Sick at the stomach; also, crestfallen; dejected. [Slang] 

WAMMEL:  To move irregularly or awkwardly; to wamble, or wabble. [Prov. Eng.] 

WAMP:  The common American eider. 

WAMPUM:  Beads made of shells, used by the North American Indians as money, and also wrought into belts, etc., as an ornament. Round his waist his belt of wampum. Longfellow. Girded with his wampum braid. Whittier.  Note: These beads were of two kinds, one white, and the other black or dark purple. The term wampum is properly applied only to the white; the dark purple ones are called suckanhock. See Seawan. "It [wampum] consisted of cylindrical pieces of the shells of testaceous fishes, a quarter of an inch long, and in diameter less than a pipestem, drilled . . . so as to be strung upon a thread. The beads of a white color, rated at half the value of the black or violet, passed each as the equivalent of a farthing in transactions between the natives and the planters." Palfrey. 

WAN:  Won. Chaucer. 

WAN:  Having a pale or sickly hue; languid of look; pale; pallid. "Sad to view, his visage pale and wan." Spenser. My color . . . [is] wan and of a leaden hue. Chaucer. Why so pale and wan, fond lover Suckling. With the wan moon overhead. Longfellow. 

WAN:  The quality of being wan; wanness. [R.] Tinged with wan from lack of sleep. Tennyson. 

WAN:  To grow wan; to become pale or sickly in looks. "All his visage wanned." Shak. And ever he mutter'd and madden'd, and ever wann'd with despair. Tennyson. 

WANDER:  To travel over without a certain course; to traverse; to stroll through. [R.] "[Elijah] wandered this barren waste." Milton. 

WANDERER:  One who wanders; a rambler; one who roves; hence, one who deviates from duty. 

WANDERING:  a. & n. from Wander, v. Wandering albatross (Zoöl.), the great white albatross. See Illust. of Albatross.  -- Wandering cell (Physiol.), an animal cell which possesses the power of spontaneous movement, as one of the white corpuscles of the blood.  -- Wandering Jew (Bot.), any one of several creeping species of Tradescantia, which have alternate, pointed leaves, and a soft, herbaceous stem which roots freely at the joints. They are commonly cultivated in hanging baskets, window boxes, etc.  -- Wandering kidney (Med.), a morbid condition in which one kidney, or, rarely, both kidneys, can be moved in certain directions; -- called also floating kidney, movable kidney.  -- Wandering liver (Med.), a morbid condition of the liver, similar to wandering kidney.  -- Wandering mouse (Zoöl.), the whitefooted, or deer, mouse. See Illust. of Mouse.  -- Wandering spider (Zoöl.), any one of a tribe of spiders that wander about in search of their prey. 

WANDERINGLY:  In a wandering manner. 

WANDERMENT:  The act of wandering, or roaming. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

WANDEROO:  A large monkey (Macacus silenus) native of Malabar. It is black, or nearly so, but has a long white or gray beard encircling the face. Called also maha, silenus, neelbhunder, lion-tailed baboon, and great wanderoo. [Written also ouanderoo.]  Note: The name is sometimes applied also to other allied species. 

WANDY:  Long and flexible, like a wand. [Prov. Eng.] Brockett. 

WANE:  To cause to decrease. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

WANEY:  A sharp or uneven edge on a board that is cut from a log not perfectly squared, or that is made in the process of squaring. See Wany, a. 

WANG:  See Whang. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

WANGAN:  A boat for conveying provisions, tools, etc.; -- so called by Maine lumbermen. [Written also wangun.] Bartlett. 

WANGER:  A pillow for the cheek; a pillow. [Obs. & R.] His bright helm was his wanger. Chaucer. 

WANGHEE:  The Chinese name of one or two species of bamboo, or jointed cane, of the genus Phyllostachys. The slender stems are much used for walking sticks. [Written also whanghee.] 

WANGO:  A boomerang. 

WANHOPE:  Want of hope; despair; also, faint or delusive hope; delusion. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. "Wanhope and distress." Chaucer. 

WANHORN:  An East Indian plant (Kæmpferia Galanga) of the Ginger family. See Galanga. 

WANIAND:  The wane of the moon. [Obs.] Halliwell. 

WANING:  The act or process of waning, or decreasing. This earthly moon, the Church, hath fulls and wanings, and sometimes her eclipses. Bp. Hall. 

WANION:  A word of uncertain signification, used only in the phrase with a wanion, apparently equivalent to with a vengeance, with a plague, or with misfortune. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Latimer. 

WANKLE:  Not to be depended on; weak; unstable. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

WANLY:  In a wan, or pale, manner. 

WANNED:  Made wan, or pale. 

WANNESS:  The quality or state of being wan; a sallow, dead, pale color; paleness; pallor; as, the wanness of the cheeks after a fever. 

WANNISH:  Somewhat wan; of a pale hue. No sun, but a wannish glare, In fold upon fold of hueless cloud. Tennyson. 

WANT:  A depression in coal strata, hollowed out before the subsequent deposition took place. [Eng.]  Syn.  -- Indigence; deficiency; defect; destitution; lack; failure; dearth; scarceness. 

WANT:  A colloquial contraction of was not. 

WANTAGE:  That which is wanting; deficiency. 

WANTING:  Absent; lacking; missing; also, deficient; destitute; needy; as, one of the twelve is wanting; I shall not be wanting in exertion. 

WANTLESS:  Having no want; abundant; fruitful. 

WANTON:  To cause to become wanton; also, to waste in wantonness. [Obs.] 

WANTONIZE:  To behave wantonly; to frolic; to wanton. [R.] Lamb. 

WANTONNESS:  The quality or state of being wanton; negligence of restraint; sportiveness; recklessness; lasciviousness. Gower. The tumults threatened to abuse all acts of grace, and turn them into wantonness. Eikon Basilike. Young gentlemen would be as sad as night Only for wantonness. Shak. 

WANTRUST:  Failing or diminishing trust; want of trust or confidence; distrust. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WANTWIT:  One destitute of wit or sense; a blockhead; a fool. [Obs.] Shak. 

WANTY:  A surcingle, or strap of leather, used for binding a load upon the back of a beast; also, a leather tie; a short wagon rope. [Prov. Eng.] 

WANY:  To wane. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WANZE:  To wane; to wither. [Obs.] 

WAP:  To beat; to whap. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Sir T. Malory. 

WAP:  A blow or beating; a whap. [Prov. Eng.] 

WAPACUT:  The American hawk owl. See under Hawk. 

WAPATOO:  The edible tuber of a species of arrowhead (Sagittaria variabilis); -- so called by the Indians of Oregon. [Written also wappato.] 

WAPED:  Cast down; crushed by misery; dejected. [Obs.] 

WAPENTAKE:  In some northern counties of England, a division, or district, answering to the hundred in other counties. Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, and Nottinghamshire are divided into wapentakes, instead of hundreds. [Written also wapentac.] Selden. Blackstone. 

WAPINSCHAW:  An exhibition of arms. according to the rank of the individual, by all persons bearing arms; -- formerly made at certain seasons in each district. [Scot.] Jamieson. Sir W. Scott. 

WAPITI:  The American elk (Cervus Canadensis). It is closely related to the European red deer, which it somewhat exceeds in size.  Note: By some writers it is thought to be a variety of the red deer, but it is considered a distinct species by others. It is noted for the large, branching antlers of the male. 

WAPPATO:  See Wapatoo. 

WAPPENED:  A word of doubtful meaning used once by Shakespeare. This [gold] is it That makes the wappen'd widow wed again.  Note: It is conjectured by some that it is an error for wappered, meaning tremulous or exhausted. 

WAPPER:  To cause to shake; to tremble; to move tremulously, as from weakness; to totter. [Obs.] 

WAPPER:  A gudgeon. [Prov. Eng.] 

WAPPET:  A small yelping cur. [Prov. Eng.] 

WAPPING:  Yelping. [R.] Fuller. 

WAR:  Ware; aware. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WAR:  A condition of belligerency to be maintained by physical force. In this sense, levying war against the sovereign authority is treason.  3. Instruments of war. [Poetic] His complement of stores, and total war. Prior.  4. Forces; army. [Poetic] On their embattled ranks the waves return, And overwhelm their war. Milton.  5. The profession of arms; the art of war. Thou art but a youth, and he is a man of war from his youth. 1 Sam. xvii. 33.  6. a state of opposition or contest; an act of opposition; an inimical contest, act, or action; enmity; hostility. "Raised impious war in heaven." Milton. The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart. Ps. lv. 21. Civil war, a war between different sections or parties of the same country or nation.  -- Holy war. See under Holy.  -- Man of war. (Naut.) See in the Vocabulary.  -- Public war, a war between independent sovereign states.  -- War cry, a cry or signal used in war; as, the Indian war cry.  -- War dance, a dance among savages preliminary to going to war. Among the North American Indians, it is begun by some distinguished chief, and whoever joins in it thereby enlists as one of the party engaged in a warlike excursion. Schoolcraft.  -- War field, a field of war or battle.  -- War horse, a horse used in war; the horse of a cavalry soldier; especially, a strong, powerful, spirited horse for military service; a charger.  -- War paint, paint put on the face and other parts of the body by savages, as a token of going to war. "Wash the war paint from your faces." Longfellow.  -- War song, a song of or pertaining to war; especially, among the American Indians, a song at the war dance, full of incitements to military ardor.  -- War whoop, a war cry, especially that uttered by the American Indians. 

WAR:  To make war; to invade or attack a state or nation with force of arms; to carry on hostilities; to be in a state by violence. Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against it. Isa. vii. 1. Why should I war without the walls of Troy Shak. Our countrymen were warring on that day! Byron.  2. To contend; to strive violently; to fight. "Lusts which war against the soul." 1 Pet. ii. 11. 

WAR:  Warworn. 

WARBLE:  See Wormil. 

WARBLE:  A quavering modulation of the voice; a musical trill; a song. And he, the wondrous child, Whose silver warble wild Outvalued every pulsing sound. Emerson. 

WARBLER:  Any one of numerous species of small Old World singing birds belonging to the family Sylviidæ, many of which are noted songsters. The bluethroat, blackcap, reed warbler (see under Reed), and sedge warbler (see under Sedge) are well-known species.  3. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of small, often bright colored, American singing birds of the family or subfamily Mniotiltidæ, or Sylvicolinæ. They are allied to the Old World warblers, but most of them are not particularly musical.  Note: The American warblers are often divided, according to their habits, into bush warblers, creeping warblers, fly-catching warblers, ground warblers, wood warblers, wormeating warblers, etc. Bush warbler (Zoöl.) any American warbler of the genus Opornis, as the Connecticut warbler (O. agilis).  -- Creeping warbler (Zoöl.), any one of several species of very small American warblers belonging to Parula, Mniotilta, and allied genera, as the blue yellow-backed warbler (Parula Americana), and the black-and-white creeper (Mniotilta varia).  -- Fly-catching warbler (Zoöl.), any one of several species of warblers belonging to Setophaga, Sylvania, and allied genera having the bill hooked and notched at the tip, with strong rictal bristles at the base, as the hooded warbler (Sylvania mitrata), the black- capped warbler (S. pusilla), the Canadian warbler (S. Canadensis), and the American redstart (see Redstart).  -- Ground warbler (Zoöl.), any American warbler of the genus Geothlypis, as the mourning ground warbler (G. Philadelphia), and the Maryland yellowthroat (see Yellowthroat).  -- Wood warbler (Zoöl.), any one of numerous American warblers of the genus Dendroica. Among the most common wood warblers in the Eastern States are the yellowbird, or yellow warbler (see under Yellow), the black-throated green warbler (Dendroica virens), the yellow-rumped warbler (D. coronata), the blackpoll (D. striata), the bay-breasted warbler (D. castanea), the chestnut-sided warbler (D. Pennsylvanica), the Cape May warbler (D. tigrina), the prairie warbler (see under Prairie), and the pine warbler (D. pinus). See also Magnolia warbler, under Magnolia, and Blackburnian warbler. 

WARBLINGLY:  In a warbling manner.  WARBURG'S TINCTURE War"burg's tinc"ture. (Pharm.)  A preparation containing quinine and many other ingredients, often used in the treatment of malarial affections. It was invented by Dr. Warburg of London.  -WARD; -WARDS -ward, -wards. Etym: [AS. -weard, -weardes; akin to OS. & OFries. - ward. OHG. -wert, G. -wärts, Icel. -verthr, Goth. -vaírÞs, L. vertere to turn, versus toward, and E. worth to become. *143. See Worth. v. i., and cf. Verse. Adverbs ending in -wards (AS. -weardes) and some other adverbs, such as besides, betimes, since (OE. sithens). etc., were originally genitive forms used adverbially.]  Suffixes denoting course or direction to; motion or tendency toward; as in backward, or backwards; toward, or towards, etc. 

WARD:  The duty of keeping watch and ward (see the Note under Watch, n., 1) with a horn to be blown upon any occasion of surprise. Burrill. 

WARDCORPS:  Guardian; one set to watch over another. [Obs.] "Though thou preyedest Argus . . . to be my wardcorps." Chaucer. 

WARDEN:  A large, hard pear, chiefly used for baking and roasting. [Obs.] I would have had him roasted like a warden. Beau. & Fl. Warden pie, a pie made of warden pears. [Obs.] Shak.  WARDENRY; WARDENSHIP Ward"en*ry, Ward"en*ship, n.  The office or jurisdiction of a warden. 

WARDIAN:  Designating, or pertaining to, a kind of glass inclosure for keeping ferns, mosses, etc., or for transporting growing plants from a distance; as, a Wardian case of plants; -- so named from the inventor, Nathaniel B. Ward, an Englishman. 

WARDMOTE:  Anciently, a meeting of the inhabitants of a ward; also, a court formerly held in each ward of London for trying defaults in matters relating to the watch, police, and the like. Brande & C. "Wards and wardmotes." Piers Plowman. 

WARDROOM:  A room occupied as a messroom by the commissioned officers of a war vessel. See Gunroom. Totten.  2. A room used by the citizens of a city ward, for meetings, political caucuses, elections, etc. [U.S.]  -WARDS -wards.  See -ward. 

WARDSMAN:  A man who keeps ward; a guard. [R.] Sydney Smith. 

WARE:  Wore. 

WARE:  To wear, or veer. See Wear. 

WARE:  Seaweed. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ware goose (Zoöl.), the brant; -- so called because it feeds on ware, or seaweed. [Prov. Eng.] 

WARE:  Articles of merchandise; the sum of articles of a particular kind or class; style or class of manufactures; especially, in the plural, goods; commodities; merchandise. "Retails his wares at wakes." Shak. "To chaffer with them and eke to sell them their ware." Chaucer. It the people of the land bring ware or any victuals on the Sabbath day to sell, that we would not buy it of them on the Sabbath, or on the holy day. Neh. x. 31.  Note: Although originally and properly a collective noun, it admits of a plural form, when articles of merchandise of different kinds are meant. It is often used in composition; as in hardware, glassware, tinware, etc. 

WARE:  A ware; taking notice; hence, wary; cautious; on one's guard. See Beware. [Obs.] She was ware and knew it bet [better] than he. Chaucer. Of whom be thou ware also. 2. Tim. iv. 15. He is ware enough; he is wily and circumspect for stirring up any sedition. Latimer. The only good that grows of passed fear Is to be wise, and ware of like again. Spenser. 

WARE:  The state of being ware or aware; heed. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

WARE:  To make ware; to warn; to take heed of; to beware of; to guard against. "Ware that I say." Chaucer. God . . . ware you for the sin of avarice. Chaucer. Then ware a rising tempest on the main. Dryden. 

WAREFUL:  Wary; watchful; cautious. [Obs.] 

WAREFULNESS:  Wariness; cautiousness. [Obs.] "Full of warefulness." Sir P. Sidney.  WAREGA FLY Wa*re"ga fly`.  (Zoöl.) A Brazilian fly whose larvæ live in the skin of man and animals, producing painful sores. 

WAREHOUSE:  A storehouse for wares, or goods. Addison. 

WAREHOUSING:  The act of placing goods in a warehouse, or in a customhouse store. Warehousing system, an arrangement for lodging imported articles in the customhouse stores, without payment of duties until they are taken out for home consumption. If reëxported, they are not charged with a duty. See Bonded warehouse, under Bonded, a. 

WARELESS:  Unwary; incautious; unheeding; careless; unaware. [Obs.] And wareless of the evil That by themselves unto themselves is wrought. Spenser. 

WARELY:  Cautiously; warily. [Obs.] They bound him hand and foot with iron chains, And with continual watch did warely keep. Spenser. 

WARENCE:  Madder. 

WAREROOM:  A room in which goods are stored or exhibited for sale. 

WARES:  See 4th Ware. 

WARFARE:  To lead a military life; to carry on continual wars. Camden. 

WARFARER:  One engaged in warfare; a military man; a soldier; a warrior. 

WARHABLE:  Fit for war. [Obs.] "Warhable youth." Spenser. 

WARIANGLE:  The red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio); -- called also würger, worrier, and throttler. [Written also warriangle, weirangle, etc.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

WARILY:  In a wary manner. 

WARIMENT:  Wariness. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WARINE:  A South American monkey, one of the sapajous. 

WARINESS:  The quality or state of being wary; care to foresee and guard against evil; cautiousness. "An almost reptile wariness." G. W. Cable. To determine what are little things in religion, great wariness is to be used. Sprat.  Syn.  -- Caution; watchfulness; circumspection; foresight; care; vigilance; scrupulousness. 

WARISH:  To protect from the effects of; hence, to cure; to heal. [Obs.] My brother shall be warished hastily. Chaucer. Varro testifies that even at this day there be some who warish and cure the stinging of serpents with their spittle. Holland. 

WARISH:  To be cured; to recover. [Obs.] Your daughter . . . shall warish and escape. Chaucer. 

WARK:  Work; a building. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser. 

WARKLOOM:  A tool; an implement. [Scot.] 

WARLIKENESS:  Quality of being warlike. 

WARLING:  One often quarreled with; -- darling. [Obs.] Better be an old man's darling than a young man's warling. Camde 

WARLOCK:  A male witch; a wizard; a sprite; an imp. [Written also warluck.] Dryden. It was Eyvind Kallda's crew Of warlocks blue, With their caps of darkness hooded! Longfellow. 

WARLOCK:  Of or pertaining to a warlock or warlock; impish. [R.] Thou shalt win the warlock fight. J. R. Drak 

WARLOCKRY:  Impishness; magic. 

WARLY:  Warlike. Burns. 

WARM:  Having yellow or red for a basis, or in their composition; -- said of colors, and opposed to cold which is of blue and its compounds.  Syn.  -- Ardent; zealous; fervent; glowing; enthusiastic; cordial; keen; violent; furious; hot. 

WARM:  The act of warming, or the state of being warmed; a warming; a heating. [Colloq.] Dickens.  WARM-BLOODED Warm"-blood`ed, a. (Physiol.)  Having warm blood; -- applied especially to those animals, as birds and mammals, which have warm blood, or, more properly, the power of maintaining a nearly uniform temperature whatever the temperature of the surrounding air. See Homoiothermal. 

WARMER:  One who, or that which, warms. 

WARMFUL:  Abounding in capacity to warm; giving warmth; as, a warmful garment. [R.] Chapman.  WARM-HEARTED Warm"-heart`ed, a.  Having strong affection; cordial; sincere; hearty; sympathetic.  -- Warm"-heart`ed*ness, n. 

WARMING:  a. & n. from Warm, v. Warming pan, a long-handled covered pan into which live coals are put, -- used for warming beds. Shak. 

WARMLY:  In a warm manner; ardently. 

WARMNESS:  Warmth. Chaucer. 

WARMONGER:  One who makes ar a trade or business; a mercenary. [R.] Spenser. 

WARMOUTH:  An American freshwater bream, or sunfish (Chænobryttus gulosus); -- called also red-eyed bream. 

WARMTH:  The glowing effect which arises from the use of warm colors; hence, any similar appearance or effect in a painting, or work of color.  Syn.  -- Zeal; ardor; fervor; fervency; heat; glow; earnestness; cordiality; animation; eagerness; excitement; vehemence. 

WARMTHLESS:  Being without warmth; not communicating warmth; cold. [R.] Coleridge. 

WARN:  To refuse. [Written also wern, worn.] [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WARNER:  One who warns; an admonisher. 

WARNER:  A warrener. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 

WARNING:  Giving previous notice; cautioning; admonishing; as, a warning voice. That warning timepiece never ceased. Longfellow. Warning piece, Warning wheel (Horol.), a piece or wheel which produces a sound shortly before the clock strikes. 

WARNINGLY:  In a warning manner. 

WARNSTORE:  To furnish. [Obs.] "To warnstore your house." Chaucer. 

WARP:  To tow or move, as a vessel, with a line, or warp, attached to a buoy, anchor, or other fixed object.  6. To cast prematurely, as young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc. [Prov. Eng.]  7. (Agric.)  To let the tide or other water in upon (lowlying land), for the purpose of fertilization, by a deposit of warp, or slimy substance. [Prov. Eng.]  8. (Rope Making)  To run off the reel into hauls to be tarred, as yarns.  9. (Weaving)  To arrange (yarns) on a warp beam. Warped surface (Geom.), a surface generated by a straight line moving so that no two of its consecutive positions shall be in the same plane. Davies & Peck. 

WARP:  To wind yarn off bobbins for forming the warp of a web; to wind a warp on a warp beam. 

WARP:  The threads which are extended lengthwise in the loom, and crossed by the woof.  2. (Naut.)  A rope used in hauling or moving a vessel, usually with one end attached to an anchor, a post, or other fixed object; a towing line; a warping hawser.  3. (Agric.)  A slimy substance deposited on land by tides, etc., by which a rich alluvial soil is formed. Lyell.  4. A premature casting of young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc. [Prov. Eng.]  5. Four; esp., four herrings; a cast. See Cast, n., 17. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.  6. Etym: [From Warp, v.]  The state of being warped or twisted; as, the warp of a board. Warp beam, the roller on which the warp is wound in a loom.  -- Warp fabric, fabric produced by warp knitting.  -- Warp frame, or Warp-net frame, a machine for making warp lace having a number of needles and employing a thread for each needle.  -- Warp knitting, a kind of knitting in which a number of threads are interchained each with one or more contiguous threads on either side; -- also called warp weaving.  -- Warp lace, or Warp net, lace having a warp crossed by weft threads. 

WARPAGE:  The act of warping; also, a charge per ton made on shipping in some harbors. 

WARPATH:  The route taken by a party of Indians going on a warlike expedition. Schoolcraft. On the warpath, on a hostile expedition; hence, colloquially, about to attack a person or measure. 

WARPING:  A kind of knitting in which a number of threads are interchained each with one or more contiguous threads on either side. 

WARPROOF:  Valor tried by war. 

WARRAGAL:  The dingo. 

WARRANDICE:  The obligation by which a person, conveying a subject or a right, is bound to uphold that subject or right against every claim, challenge, or burden arising from circumstances prior to the conveyance; warranty. [Written also warrandise.] Craig. 

WARRANTABLE:  Authorized by commission, precept, or right; justifiable; defensible; as, the seizure of a thief is always warrantable by law and justice; falsehood is never warrantable. His meals are coarse and short, his employment warrantable, his sleep certain and refreshing. South. -- War"rant*a*ble*ness, n.  -- War"rant*bly, adv. 

WARRANTEE:  The person to whom a warrant or warranty is made. 

WARRANTER:  One who assures, or covenants to assure; one who contracts to secure another in a right, or to make good any defect of title or quality; one who gives a warranty; a guarantor; as, the warranter of a horse. 

WARRANTISE:  Authority; security; warranty. [Obs.] Shak. 

WARRANTISE:  To warrant. [Obs.] Hakluyt. 

WARRANTOR:  One who warrants. 

WARRANTY:  A covenant real, whereby the grantor of an estate of freehold and his heirs were bound to warrant and defend the title, and, in case of eviction by title paramount, to yield other lands of equal value in recompense. This warranty has long singe become obsolete, and its place supplied by personal covenants for title. Among these is the covenant of warranty, which runs with the land, and is in the nature of a real covenant. Kent.  2. (Modern Law)  An engagement or undertaking, express or implied, that a certain fact regarding the subject of a contract is, or shall be, as it is expressly or impliedly declared or promised to be. In sales of goods by persons in possession, there is an implied warranty of title, but, as to the quality of goods, the rule of every sale is, Caveat emptor. Chitty. Bouvier.  3. (Insurance Law)  A stipulation or engagement by a party insured, that certain things, relating to the subject of insurance, or affecting the risk, exist, or shall exist, or have been done, or shall be done. These warranties, when express, should appear in the policy; but there are certain implied warranties. Bouvier.  4. Justificatory mandate or precept; authority; warrant. [R.] Shak. If they disobey precept, that is no excuse to us, nor gives us any warranty . . . to disobey likewise. Kettlewe  5. Security; warrant; guaranty. The stamp was a warranty of the public. Locke.  Syn.  -- See Guarantee. 

WARRANTY:  To warrant; to guarantee. 

WARRAY:  To make war upon. [Obs.] Fairfax. "When a man warrayeth truth." Chaucer. 

WARRE:  Worse. [Obs.] They say the world is much warre than it wont. Spenser. 

WARRENER:  The keeper of a warren. 

WARRIANGLE:  See Wariangle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

WARRIE:  See Warye. [Obs.] 

WARRIN:  An Australian lorikeet (Trichoglossus multicolor) remarkable for the variety and brilliancy of its colors; -- called also blue- bellied lorikeet, and blue-bellied parrot. 

WARRIOR:  A man engaged or experienced in war, or in the military life; a soldier; a champion. Warriors old with ordered spear and shield. Milton. Warrior ant (Zoöl.), a reddish ant (Formica sanguinea) native of Europe and America. It is one of the species which move in armies to capture and enslave other ants. 

WARRIORESS:  A female warrior. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WARRY:  See Warye. [Obs.] 

WART:  A small, usually hard, tumor on the skin formed by enlargement of its vascular papillæ, and thickening of the epidermis which covers them.  2. An excrescence or protuberance more or less resembling a true wart; specifically (Bot.), a glandular excrescence or hardened protuberance on plants. Fig wart, Moist wart (Med.), a soft, bright red, pointed or tufted tumor found about the genitals, often massed into groups of large size. It is a variety of condyloma. Called also pointed wart, venereal wart. L. A. Duhring.  -- Wart cress (Bot.), the swine's cress. See under Swine.  -- Wart snake (Zoöl.), any one of several species of East Indian colubrine snakes of the genus Acrochordus, having the body covered with wartlike tubercles or spinose scales, and lacking cephalic plates and ventral scutes.  -- Wart spurge (Bot.), a kind of wartwort (Euphorbia Helioscopia). 

WARTED:  Having little knobs on the surface; verrucose; as, a warted capsule.  WART HOG Wart" hog`. (Zoöl.)  Either one of two species of large, savage African wild hogs of the genus Phacochoerus. These animals have a pair of large, rough, fleshy tubercles behind the tusks and second pair behind the eyes. The tusks are large and strong, and both pairs curve upward. The body is scantily covered with bristles, but there is long dorsal mane. The South African species (Phacochoerus Æthiopicus) is the best known. Called also vlacke vark. The second species (P. Æliani) is native of the coasts of the Red Sea. 

WARTLESS:  Having no wart. 

WARTWEED:  Same as Wartwort. 

WARTWORT:  A name given to several plants because they were thought to be a cure for warts, as a kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia), and the nipplewort (Lampsana communis). 

WARTY:  An American fresh-water mussel (Quadrula pustulosa). Its shell is used in making buttons. 

WARWICKITE:  A dark brown or black mineral, occurring in prismatic crystals imbedded in limestone near Warwick, New York. It consists of the borate and titanate of magnesia and iron. 

WARWORN:  Worn with military service; as, a warworn soldier; a warworn coat. Shak. 

WARYE:  To curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex. [Obs.] [Spelled also warrie, warry, and wary.] "Whom I thus blame and warye." Chaucer. 

WAS:  The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was. 

WASE:  A bundle of straw, or other material, to relieve the pressure of burdens carried upon the head. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

WASH:  Washy; weak. [Obs.] Their bodies of so weak and wash a temper. Beau. & Fl.  2. Capable of being washed without injury; washable; as, wash goods. [Colloq.] 

WASHABLE:  Capable of being washed without damage to fabric or color. 

WASHBOARD:  A broad, thin plank, fixed along the gunwale of boat to keep the sea from breaking inboard; also, a plank on the sill of a lower deck port, for the same purpose; -- called also wasteboard. Mar. Di 

WASHBOWL:  A basin, or bowl, to hold water for washing one's hands, face, etc. 

WASHDISH:  Same as Washerwoman, 2. [Prov. Eng.]  WASH DRAWING Wash drawing. (Art)  In water-color painting, work in, or a work done chiefly in, washes, as distinguished from that done in stipple, in body color, etc. 

WASHED:  Appearing as if overlaid with a thin layer of different color; -- said of the colors of certain birds and insects.  WASHED SALE Washed sale.  Same as Wash sale. 

WASHEN:  p. p. of Wash. Chaucer. 

WASHER:  A fitting, usually having a plug, applied to a cistern, tub, sink, or the like, and forming the outlet opening.  4. (Zoöl.)  The common raccoon.  5. (Zoöl.)  Same as Washerwoman, 2. [Prov. Eng.] 

WASHERMAN:  A man who washes clothes, esp. for hire, or for others. 

WASHERWOMAN:  The pied wagtail; -- so called in allusion to its beating the water with its tail while tripping along the leaves of water plants. [Prov. Eng.] 

WASHHOUSE:  An outbuilding for washing, esp. one for washing clothes; a laundry. 

WASHINESS:  The quality or state of being washy, watery, or weak. 

WASHINGTONIAN:  A member of the Washingtonian Society.  WASHOE PROCESS Wash"oe proc`ess. [From the Washoe district, Nevada.]  The process of treating silver ores by grinding in pans or tubs with the addition of mercury, and sometimes of chemicals such as blue vitriol and salt.  WASH-OFF Wash"-off`, a. (Calico Printing)  Capable of being washed off; not permanent or durable; -- said of colors not fixed by steaming or otherwise. 

WASHOUT:  The washing out or away of earth, etc., especially of a portion of the bed of a road or railroad by a fall of rain or a freshet; also, a place, especially in the bed of a road or railroad, where the earth has been washed away. 

WASHPOT:  A pot containing melted tin into which the plates are dipped to be coated.  WASH SALE Wash sale. (Stock Exchange)  A sale made in washing. See Washing, n., 3, above. 

WASHSTAND:  A piece of furniture holding the ewer or pitcher, basin, and other requisites for washing the person.  WASH STAND Wash stand.  In a stable or garage, a place in the floor prepared so that carriages or automobiles may be washed there and the water run off. [Cant] 

WASHTUB:  A tub in which clothes are washed. 

WASITE:  A variety of allanite from Sweden supposed to contain wasium. 

WASIUM:  A rare element supposed by Bahr to have been extracted from wasite, but now identified with thorium. 

WASP:  Any one of numerous species of stinging hymenopterous insects, esp. any of the numerous species of the genus Vespa, which includes the true, or social, wasps, some of which are called yellow jackets.  Note: The social wasps make a complex series of combs, of a substance like stiff paper, often of large size, and protect them by a paperlike covering. The larvæ are reared in the cells of the combs, and eat insects and insect larvæ brought to them by the adults, but the latter feed mainly on the honey and pollen of flowers, and on the sweet juices of fruit. See Illust. in Appendix. Digger wasp, any one of numerous species of solitary wasps that make their nests in burrows which they dig in the ground, as the sand wasps. See Sand wasp, under Sand.  -- Mud wasp. See under Mud.  -- Potter wasp. See under Potter.  -- Wasp fly, a species of fly resembling a wasp, but without a sting. 

WASSAIL:  Of or pertaining to wassail, or to a wassail; convivial; as, a wassail bowl. "Awassail candle, my lord, all tallow." Shak. Wassail bowl, a bowl in which wassail was mixed, and placed upon the table. "Spiced wassail bowl." J. Fletcher. "When the cloth was removed, the butler brought in a huge silver vessel . . . Its appearance was hailed with acclamation, being the wassail bowl so renowned in Christmas festivity." W. Irving.  -- Wassail cup, a cup from which wassail was drunk. 

WASSAIL:  To hold a wassail; to carouse. Spending all the day, and good part of the night, in dancing, caroling, and wassailing. Sir P. Sidney. 

WASSAILER:  One who drinks wassail; one who engages in festivity, especially in drinking; a reveler. The rudeness and swilled insolence Of such late wassailers. Milton. 

WAST:  The second person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, imperfect tense; -- now used only in solemn or poetical style. See Was. 

WASTAGE:  Loss by use, decay, evaporation, leakage, or the like; waste. 

WASTE:  To damage, impair, or injure, as an estate, voluntarily, or by suffering the buildings, fences, etc., to go to decay.  Syn.  -- To squander; dissipate; lavish; desolate. 

WASTE:  To procure or sustain a reduction of flesh; -- said of a jockey in preparation for a race, etc. 

WASTE:  Spoil, destruction, or injury, done to houses, woods, fences, lands, etc., by a tenant for life or for years, to the prejudice of the heir, or of him in reversion or remainder.  Note: Waste is voluntary, as by pulling down buildings; or permissive, as by suffering them to fall for want of necessary repairs. Whatever does a lasting damage to the freehold is a waste. Blackstone.  5. (Mining)  Old or abandoned workings, whether left as vacant space or filled with refuse.  Syn.  -- Prodigality; diminution; loss; dissipation; destruction; devastation; havoc; desolation; ravage. 

WASTEBASKET:  A basket used in offices, libraries, etc., as a receptacle for waste paper. 

WASTEBOARD:  See Washboard, 3. 

WASTEBOOK:  A book in which rough entries of transactions are made, previous to their being carried into the journal. 

WASTEL:  A kind of white and fine bread or cake; -- called also wastel bread, and wastel cake. [Obs.] Roasted flesh or milk and wasted bread. Chaucer. The simnel bread and wastel cakes, which were only used at the tables of the highest nobility. Sir W. Scott. 

WASTETHRIFT:  A spendthrift. [Obs.] 

WASTEWEIR:  An overfall, or weir, for the escape, or overflow, of superfluous water from a canal, reservoir, pond, or the like. 

WASTING:  Causing waste; also, undergoing waste; diminishing; as, a wasting disease; a wasting fortune. Wasting palsy (Med.), progressive muscular atrophy. See under Progressive. 

WASTOR:  A waster; a thief. [Obs. or R.] [Written also wastour.] Chaucer. Southey. 

WASTOREL:  See Wastrel. [Obs.] 

WATCH:  To serve the purpose of a watchman by floating properly in its place; -- said of a buoy. To watch over, to be cautiously observant of; to inspect, superintend, and guard. 

WATCHDOG:  A dog kept to watch and guard premises or property, and to give notice of the approach of intruders. 

WATCHER:  One who watches; one who sits up or continues; a diligent observer; specifically, one who attends upon the sick during the night. 

WATCHES:  The leaves of Sarace. See Trumpets. 

WATCHET:  Pale or light blue. [Obs.] "Watchet mantles." Spenser. Who stares in Germany at watchet eyes Dryden. 

WATCHFUL:  Full of watch; vigilant; attentive; careful to observe closely; observant; cautious; -- with of before the thing to be regulated or guarded; as, to be watchful of one's behavior; and with against before the thing to be avoided; as, to be watchful against the growth of vicious habits. "Many a watchful night." Shak. "Happy watchful shepherds." Milton. 'Twixt prayer and watchful love his heart dividing. Keble.  Syn.  -- Vigilant; attentive; cautious; observant; circumspect; wakeful; heedful.  -- Watch"ful*ly, adv.  -- Watch"ful*ness, n. 

WATCHMAKER:  One whose occupation is to make and repair watches. 

WATCHMAN:  A religious meeting held in the closing hours of the year. 

WATCHTOWER:  A tower in which a sentinel is placed to watch for enemies, the approach of danger, or the like. 

WATER:  A solution in water of a gaseous or readily volatile substance; as, ammonia water. U. S. Pharm.  5. The limpidity and luster of a precious stone, especially a diamond; as, a diamond of the first water, that is, perfectly pure and transparent. Hence, of the first water, that is, of the first excellence.  6. A wavy, lustrous pattern or decoration such as is imparted to linen, silk, metals, etc. See Water, v. t., 3, Damask, v. t., and Damaskeen.  7. An addition to the shares representing the capital of a stock company so that the aggregate par value of the shares is increased while their value for investment is diminished, or "diluted." [Brokers' Cant]  Note: Water is often used adjectively and in the formation of many self-explaining compounds; as, water drainage; water gauge, or water- gauge; waterfowl, water-fowl, or water fowl; water-beaten; water- borne, water-circled, water-girdled, water-rocked, etc. Hard water. See under Hard.  -- Inch of water, a unit of measure of quantity of water, being the quantity which will flow through an orifice one inch square, or a circular orifice one inch in diameter, in a vertical surface, under a stated constant head; also called miner's inch, and water inch. The shape of the orifice and the head vary in different localities. In the Western United States, for hydraulic mining, the standard aperture is square and the head from 4 to 9 inches above its center. In Europe, for experimental hydraulics, the orifice is usually round and the head from -- Mineral water, waters which are so impregnated with foreign ingredients, such as gaseous, sulphureous, and saline substances, as to give them medicinal properties, or a particular flavor or temperature.  -- Soft water, water not impregnated with lime or mineral salts.  -- To hold water. See under Hold, v. t.  -- To keep one's head above water, to keep afloat; fig., to avoid failure or sinking in the struggles of life. [Colloq.] -- To make water. (a) To pass urine. Swift. (b) (Naut.) To admit water; to leak.  -- Water of crystallization (Chem.), the water combined with many salts in their crystalline form. This water is loosely, but, nevertheless, chemically, combined, for it is held in fixed and definite amount for each substance containing it. Thus, while pure copper sulphate, CuSO4, is a white amorphous substance, blue vitriol, the crystallized form, CuSO4.5H2O, contains five molecules of water of crystallization.  -- Water on the brain (Med.), hydrocephalus.  -- Water on the chest (Med.), hydrothorax.  Note: Other phrases, in which water occurs as the first element, will be found in alphabetical order in the Vocabulary. 

WATERAGE:  Money paid for transportation of goods, etc., by water. [Eng.]  WATER AGRIMONY Wa"ter ag"ri*mo*ny. (Bot.)  A kind of bur marigold (Bidens tripartita) found in wet places in Europe.  WATER ALOE Wa"ter al"oe. (Bot.)  See Water soldier.  WATER ANTELOPE Wa"ter an"te*lope.  See Water buck.  WATER ARUM Wa"ter a"rum. (Bot.)  An aroid herb (Calla palustris) having a white spathe. It is an inhabitant of the north temperate zone.  WATER BACK Wa"ter back`.  See under 1st Back.  WATER BAILIFF Wa"ter bail"iff.  An officer of the customs, whose duty it is to search vessels. [Eng.]  WATER BALLAST Wa"ter bal"last. (Naut.)  Water confined in specially constructed compartments in a vessel's hold, to serve as ballast.  WATER BAROMETER Wa"ter ba*rom"e*ter. (Physics)  A barometer in which the changes of atmospheric pressure are indicated by the motion of a column of water instead of mercury. It requires a column of water about thirty-three feet in height.  WATER BATH Wa"ter bath`.  A device for regulating the temperature of anything subjected to heat, by surrounding the vessel containing it with another vessel containing water which can be kept at a desired temperature; also, a vessel designed for this purpose.  WATER BATTERY Wa"ter bat"ter*y.  1. (Elec.)  A voltaic battery in which the exciting fluid is water.  2. (Mil.)  A battery nearly on a level with the water.  WATER BEAR Wa"ter bear`. (Zoöl.)  Any species of Tardigrada, 2. See Illust. of Tardigrada.  WATER-BEARER Wa"ter-bear`er, n. (Astron.)  The constellation Aquarius.  WATER BED Wa"ter bed`.  A kind of mattress made of, or covered with, waterproof fabric and filled with water. It is used in hospitals for bedridden patients.  WATER BEECH Wa"ter beech`. (Bot.)  The American hornbeam. See Hornbeam.  WATER BEETLE Wa"ter bee"tle. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of aquatic beetles belonging to Dytiscus and allied genera of the family Dytiscidæ, and to various genera of the family Hydrophilidæ. These beetles swim with great agility, the fringed hind legs acting together like oars.  WATER BELLOWS Wa"ter bel"lows.  Same as Tromp.  WATER BIRD Wa"ter bird`. (Zoöl.)  Any aquatic bird; a water fowl.  WATER BLACKBIRD Wa"ter black"*bird. (Zoöl.)  The European water ousel, or dipper. 

WATERBOARD:  A board set up to windward in a boat, to keep out water. Ham. Nav. Encyc.  WATER BOATMAN Wa"ter boat`man. (Zoöl.)  A boat bug. 

WATERBOK:  A water buck.  WATER-BOUND Wa"ter-bound`, a.  Prevented by a flood from proceeding.  WATER BRAIN Wa"ter brain`.  A disease of sheep; gid.  WATER BRASH Wa"ter brash`. (Med.)  See under Brash.  WATER BREATHER Wa"ter breath"er. (Zoöl.)  Any arthropod that breathes by means of gills.  WATER BRIDGE Wa"ter bridge`. (Steam Boilers)  See Water table.  WATER BUCK Wa"ter buck`. (Zoöl.)  A large, heavy antelope (Kobus ellipsiprymnus) native of Central Africa. It frequents the banks of rivers and is a good swimmer. It has a white ring around the rump. Called also photomok, water antelope, and waterbok.  Note: The name is also applied to other related species, as the leche (Kobus leche), which has similar habits.  WATER BUFFALO Wa"ter buf"fa*lo. (Zoöl.)  The European buffalo.  WATER BUG Wa"ter bug`. (Zoöl.) (a) The Croton bug. (b) Any one of numerous species of large, rapacious, aquatic, hemipterous insects belonging to Belostoma, Benacus, Zaitha, and other genera of the family Belostomatidæ. Their hind legs are long and fringed, and act like oars. Some of these insects are of great size, being among the largest existing Hemiptera. Many of them come out of the water and fly about at night.  WATER BUTT Wa"ter butt`.  A large, open-headed cask, set up on end, to contain water. Dickens.  WATER CALTROP Wa"ter cal"trop. (Bot.)  The water chestnut.  WATER CAN Wa"ter can`. (Bot.)  Any one of several species of Nuphar; the yellow frog lily; -- so called from the shape of the seed vessel. See Nuphar, and cf. Candock. Dr. Prior.  WATER CANKER Wa"ter can"ker. (Med.)  See Canker, n., 1.  WATER CARRIAGE Wa"ter car"riage.  1. Transportation or conveyance by water; means of transporting by water.  2. A vessel or boat. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.  WATER CART Wa"ter cart`.  A cart carrying water; esp., one carrying water for sale, or for sprinkling streets, gardens, etc.  WATER CAVY Wa"ter ca"vy. (Zoöl.)  The capybara.  WATER CELERY Wa"ter cel"er*y. (Bot.)  A very acrid herb (Ranunculus sceleratus) growing in ditches and wet places; -- called also cursed crowfoot.  WATER CELL Wa"ter cell`.  A cell containing water; specifically (Zoöl.), one of the cells or chambers in which water is stored up in the stomach of a camel.  WATER CEMENT Wa"ter ce*ment".  Hydraulic cement.  WATER CHESTNUT Wa"ter chest"nut. (Bot.)  The fruit of Trapa natans and Trapa bicornis, Old World water plants bearing edible nutlike fruits armed with several hard and sharp points; also, the plant itself; -- called also water caltrop.  WATER CHEVROTAIN Wa"ter chev`ro*tain". (Zoöl.)  A large West African chevrotain (Hyæmoschus aquaticus). It has a larger body and shorter legs than the other allied species. Called also water deerlet.  WATER CHICKEN Wa"ter chick"en. (Zoöl.)  The common American gallinule.  WATER CHICKWEED Wa"ter chick"weed`. (Bot.)  A small annual plant (Montia fontana) growing in wet places in southern regions.  WATER CHINQUAPIN Wa"ter chin"qua*pin. (Bot.)  The American lotus, and its edible seeds, which somewhat resemble chinquapins. Cf. Yoncopin.  WATER CLOCK Wa"ter clock`.  An instrument or machine serving to measure time by the fall, or flow, of a certain quantity of water; a clepsydra.  WATER-CLOSET Wa"ter-clos`et, n.  A privy; especially, a privy furnished with a contrivance for introducing a stream of water to cleanse it.  WATER COCK Wa"ter cock`. (Zoöl.)  A large gallinule (Gallicrex cristatus) native of Australia, India, and the East Indies. In the breeding season the male is black and has a fleshy red caruncle, or horn, on the top of its head. Called also kora.  WATER COLOR Wa"ter col`or. (Paint.)  1. A color ground with water and gum or other glutinous medium; a color the vehicle of which is water; -- so called in distinction from oil color.  Note: It preserves its consistency when dried in a solid cake, which is used by rubbing off a portion on a moistened palette. Moist water colors are water colors kept in a semifluid or pasty state in little metal tubes or pans.  2. A picture painted with such colors.  WATER-COLORIST Wa"ter-col`or*ist, n.  One who paints in water colors.  WATER COURSE Wa"ter course`.  1. A stream of water; a river or brook. Isa. xliv. 4.  2. A natural channel for water; also, a canal for the conveyance of water, especially in draining lands.  3. (Law)  A running stream of water having a bed and banks; the easement one may have in the flowing of such a stream in its accustomed course. A water course may be sometimes dry. Angell. Burrill. 

WATERCOURSE:  One of the holes in floor or other plates to permit water to flow through.  WATER CRAFT Wa"ter craft`.  Any vessel or boat plying on water; vessels and boats, collectively.  WATER CRAKE Wa"ter crake`. (Zoöl.) (a) The dipper. (b) The spotted crake (Porzana maruetta). See Illust. of Crake. (c) The swamp hen, or crake, of Australia.  WATER CRANE Wa"ter crane`.  A goose-neck apparatus for supplying water from an elevated tank, as to the tender of a locomotive.  WATER CRESS Wa"ter cress`. (Bot.)  A perennial cruciferous herb (Nasturtium officinale) growing usually in clear running or spring water. The leaves are pungent, and used for salad and as an antiscorbutic.  WATER CROW Wa"ter crow`. Etym: [So called in allusion to its dark plumage.] (Zoöl.) (a) The dipper. (b) The European coot.  WATER CROWFOOT Wa"ter crow"foot`. (Bot.)  An aquatic kind of buttercup (Ranunculus aquatilis), used as food for cattle in parts of England. Great water crowfoot, an American water plant (Ranunculus multifidus), having deep yellow flowers.  WATER CURE Wa"ter cure`.  1. (Med.)  Hydropathy.  2. A hydropathic institution.  WATER DECK Wa"ter deck`.  A covering of painting canvas for the equipments of a dragoon's horse. Wilhelm.  WATER DEER Wa"ter deer`. (Zoöl.) (a) A small Chinese deer (Hydropotes inermis). Both sexes are destitute of antlers, but the male has large, descending canine tusks. (b) The water chevrotain.  WATER DEERLET Wa"ter deer"let.  See Water chevrotain.  WATER DEVIL Wa"ter dev"il. (Zoöl.)  The rapacious larva of a large water beetle (Hydrophilus piceus), and of other similar species. See Illust. of Water beetle.  WATER DOCK Wa"ter dock`. (Bot.)  A tall, coarse dock growing in wet places. The American water dock is Rumex orbiculatus, the European is R. Hydrolapathum.  WATER DOCTOR Wa"ter doc"tor. (Med.) (a) One who professes to be able to divine diseases by inspection of the urine. (b) A physician who treats diseases with water; an hydropathist.  WATER DOG Wa"ter dog`.  1. (Zoöl.)  A dog accustomed to the water, or trained to retrieve waterfowl. Retrievers, waters spaniels, and Newfoundland dogs are so trained.  2. (Zoöl.)  The menobranchus.  3. A small floating cloud, supposed to indicate rain.  4. A sailor, esp. an old sailor; an old salt. [Colloq.]  WATER DRAIN Wa"ter drain`.  A drain or channel for draining off water.  WATER DRAINAGE Wa"ter drain"age (; 48).  The draining off of water.  WATER DRESSING Wa"ter dress"ing. (Med.)  The treatment of wounds or ulcers by the application of water; also, a dressing saturated with water only, for application to a wound or an ulcer.  WATER DROPWORT Wa"ter drop"wort`. (Bot.)  A European poisonous umbelliferous plant (Enanthe fistulosa) with large hollow stems and finely divided leaves.  WATER EAGLE Wa"ter ea"gle. (Zoöl.)  The osprey.  WATER ELDER Wa"ter el"der. (Bot.)  The guelder-rose.  WATER ELEPHANT Wa"ter el"e*phant. (Zoöl.)  The hippopotamus. [R.]  WATER ENGINE Wa"ter en"gine.  An engine to raise water; or an engine moved by water; also, an engine or machine for extinguishing fires; a fire engine. 

WATERER:  One who, or that which, waters. 

WATERFALL:  An arrangement of a woman's back hair over a cushion or frame in some resemblance to a waterfall.  3. A certain kind of neck scarf. T. Hughes.  WATER FEATHER; WATER FEATHER-FOIL Wa"ter feath"er or Wa"ter feath"er-foil`. (Bot.)  The water violet (Hottonia palustris); also, the less showy American plant H. inflata.  WATER FLAG Wa"ter flag`. (Bot.)  A European species of Iris (Iris Pseudacorus) having bright yellow flowers.  WATER FLANNEL Wa"ter flan"nel. (Bot.)  A floating mass formed in pools by the entangled filaments of a European fresh-water alga (Cladophora crispata).  WATER FLEA Wa"ter flea`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of small aquatic Entomostraca belonging to the genera Cyclops, Daphnia, etc; -- so called because they swim with sudden leaps, or starts. 

WATERFLOOD:  A flood of water; an inundation.  WATER FLOUNDER Wa"ter floun"der. (Zoöl.)  The windowpane (Pleuronectes maculatus). [Local, U. S.] 

WATERFOWL:  Any bird that frequents the water, or lives about rivers, lakes, etc., or on or near the sea; an aquatic fowl; -- used also collectively.  Note: Of aquatic fowls, some are waders, or furnished with long legs; others are swimmers, or furnished with webbed feet.  WATER FOX Wa"ter fox`. (Zoöl.)  The carp; -- so called on account of its cunning. Walton.  WATER FRAME Wa"ter frame`.  A name given to the first power spinning machine, because driven by water power.  WATER FURROW Wa"ter fur"row. (Agric.)  A deep furrow for conducting water from the ground, and keeping the surface soil dry.  WATER-FURROW Wa"ter-fur"row, v. t.  To make water furrows in.  WATER GAGE Wa"ter gage`.  See Water gauge.  WATER GALL Wa"ter gall`.  1. A cavity made in the earth by a torrent of water; a washout.  2. A watery appearance in the sky, accompanying the rainbow; a secondary or broken rainbow. These water galls, in her dim element, Foretell new storms to those already spent. Shak. False good news are [is] always produced by true good, like the water gall by the rainbow. Walpole.  WATER GANG Wa"ter gang`. (O. E. Law)  A passage for water, such as was usually made in a sea wall, to drain water out of marshes. Burrill.  WATER GAS Wa"ter gas`. (Chem.)  See under Gas.  WATER GATE Wa"ter gate`.  A gate, or valve, by which a flow of water is permitted, prevented, or regulated.  WATER GAUGE Wa"ter gauge`. [Written also water gage.]  1. A wall or bank to hold water back. Craig.  2. An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the depth or quantity of water, or for indicating the height of its surface, as in the boiler of a steam engine. See Gauge.  WATER GAVEL Wa"ter gav"el. (O. Eng. Law)  A gavel or rent paid for a privilege, as of fishing, in some river or water.  WATER GERMANDER Wa"ter ger*man"der. (Bot.)  A labiate plant (Teucrium Scordium) found in marshy places in Europe.  WATER GILDING Wa"ter gild"ing.  The act, or the process, of gilding metallic surfaces by covering them with a thin coating of amalgam of gold, and then volatilizing the mercury by heat; -- called also wash gilding.  WATER GLASS Wa"ter glass`. (Chem.)  See Soluble glass, under Glass.  WATER GOD Wa"ter god`. (Myth.)  A fabulous deity supposed to dwell in, and preside over, some body of water.  WATER GRASS Water grass.  (a) A tall march perennial grass (Paspalum dilatatum) of the southern United States and the American tropics.  (b) Manna grass.  (c) The grass Chloris elegans.  (d) [Dial. Eng.] (1) Velvet grass. (2)  The water cress. (3)  One of various horsetails.  WATER GRUEL Wa"ter gru"el.  A liquid food composed of water and a small portion of meal, or other farinaceous substance, boiled and seasoned.  WATER HAMMER Wa"ter ham"mer. (Physics)  1. A vessel partly filled with water, exhausted of air, and hermetically sealed. When reversed or shaken, the water being unimpeded by air, strikes the sides in solid mass with a sound like that of a hammer.  2. A concussion, or blow, made by water in striking, as against the sides of a pipe or vessel containing it.  WATER HARE Wa"ter hare. (Zoöl.)  A small American hare or rabbit (Lepus aquaticus) found on or near the southern coasts of the United States; -- called also water rabbit, and swamp hare.  WATER HEMLOCK Wa"ter hem"lock. (Bot) (a) A poisonous umbelliferous plant (Cicuta virosa) of Europe; also, any one of several plants of that genus. (b) A poisonous plant () resembling the above.  WATER HEMP Wa"ter hemp`. (Bot.)  See under Hemp.  WATER HEN Wa"ter hen`.  1. (Zoöl.)  Any gallinule.  2. (Zoöl.)  The common American coot.  WATER HOG Wa"ter hog`. (Zoöl.)  The capybara.  WATER HOREHOUND Wa"ter hore"hound`. (Bot.)  Bugleweed. 

WATERHORSE:  A pile of salted fish heaped up to drain.  WATER HYACINTH Wa"ter hy"a*cinth. (Bot.)  Either of several tropical aquatic plants of the genus Eichhornia, related to the pickerel weed.  WATER ICE Wa"ter ice`.  Water flavored, sweetened, and frozen, to be eaten as a confection. 

WATERIE:  The pied wagtail; -- so called because it frequents ponds.  WATER INCH Wa"ter inch`.  Same as Inch of water, under Water. 

WATERINESS:  The quality or state of being watery; moisture; humidity. 

WATERING:  a. & n. from Water, v. Watering call (Mil.), a sound of trumpet or bugle summoning cavalry soldiers to assemble for the purpose of watering their horses.  -- Watering cart, a sprinkling cart. See Water.  -- Watering place. (a) A place where water may be obtained, as for a ship, for cattle, etc. (b) A place where there are springs of medicinal water, or a place by the sea, or by some large body of water, to which people resort for bathing, recreation, boating, etc.  -- Watering pot. (a) A kind of bucket fitted with a rose, or perforated nozzle, -- used for watering flowers, paths, etc. (b) (Zoöl.) Any one of several species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Aspergillum, or Brechites. The valves are small, and consolidated with the capacious calcareous tube which incases the entire animal. The tube is closed at the anterior end by a convex disk perforated by numerous pores, or tubules, and resembling the rose of a watering pot.  -- Watering trough, a trough from which cattle, horses, and other animals drink. 

WATERISHNESS:  The quality of being waterish.  WATER JACKET Wa"ter jac"ket.  A chamber surrounding a vessel or tube in which water may be circulated, thereby regulating the temperature or supply of heat to the vessel. Used in laboratory and manufacturing equipment. water- jacketed. Having a water jacket; -- as, a water-jacketed condenser.  WATER JOINT Wa"ter joint`. (Arch.)  A joint in a stone pavement where the stones are left slightly higher than elsewhere, the rest of the surface being sunken or dished. The raised surface is intended to prevent the settling of water in the joints.  WATER JUNKET Wa"ter jun"ket. (Zoöl.)  The common sandpiper.  WATER-LAID Wa"ter-laid`, a.  Having a left-hand twist; -- said of cordage; as, a water-laid, or left-hand, rope.  WATERLANDER; WATERLANDIAN Wa`ter*land"er, Wa`ter*land"i*an n. (Eccl. Hist.)  One of a body of Dutch Anabaptists who separated from the Mennonites in the sixteenth century; -- so called from a district in North Holland denominated Waterland.  WATER LAVEROCK Wa"ter la"ver*ock. (Zoöl.)  The common sandpiper. 

WATERLEAF:  Any plant of the American genus Hydrophyllum, herbs having white or pale blue bell-shaped flowers. Gray.  WATER LEG Wa"ter leg`. (Steam Boilers)  See Leg, 7.  WATER LEMON Wa"ter lem"on. (Bot.)  The edible fruit of two species of passion flower (Passiflora laurifolia, and P. maliformis); -- so called in the West Indies. 

WATERLESS:  Destitute of water; dry. Chaucer.  WATER LETTUCE Wa"ter let"tuce. (Bot.)  A plant (Pistia stratiotes) which floats on tropical waters, and forms a rosette of spongy, wedge-shaped leaves. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).  WATER LEVEL Wa"ter lev"el.  1. The level formed by the surface of still water.  2. A kind of leveling instrument. See under Level, n.  WATER LILY Wa"ter lil`y. (Bot.)  A blossom or plant of any species of the genus Nymphæa, distinguished for its large floating leaves and beautiful flowers. See Nymphæa.  Note: The name is extended to various plants of other related genera, as Nuphar, Euryale, Nelumbo, and Victoria. See Euryale, Lotus, and Victoria, 1.  WATER LIME Wa"ter lime`.  Hydraulic lime.  WATER LINE Wa"ter line`.  1. (Shipbuilding)  Any one of certain lines of a vessel, model, or plan, parallel with the surface of the water at various heights from the keel.  Note: In a half-breadth plan, the water lines are outward curves showing the horizontal form of the ship at their several heights; in a sheer plan, they are projected as straight horizontal lines.  2. (Naut.)  Any one of several lines marked upon the outside of a vessel, corresponding with the surface of the water when she is afloat on an even keel. The lowest line indicates the vessel's proper submergence when not loaded, and is called the light water line; the highest, called the load water line, indicates her proper submergence when loaded. Water-line model (Shipbuilding), a model of a vessel formed of boards which are shaped according to the water lines as shown in the plans and laid upon each other to form a solid model.  WATER LIZARD Wa"ter liz"ard. (Zoöl.)  Any aquatic lizard of the genus Varanus, as the monitor of the Nile. See Monitor, n., 3.  WATER LOCUST Wa"ter lo"cust. (Bot.)  A thorny leguminous tree (Gleditschia monosperma) which grows in the swamps of the Mississippi valley.  WATER-LOGGED Wa"ter-logged, a.  Filled or saturated with water so as to be heavy, unmanageable, or loglike; -- said of a vessel, when, by receiving a great quantity of water into her hold, she has become so heavy as not to be manageable by the helm. 

WATERMARK:  See Water line, 2. [R.]  WATER MEADOW Wa"ter mead"ow. (Agric.)  A meadow, or piece of low, flat land, capable of being kept in a state of fertility by being overflowed with water from some adjoining river or stream.  WATER MEASURE Wa"ter meas"ure.  A measure formerly used for articles brought by water, as coals, oysters, etc. The water-measure bushel was three gallons larger than the Winchester bushel. Cowell.  WATER MEASURER Wa"ter meas"ur*er. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of water; the skater. See Skater, n., 2. 

WATERMELON:  The very large ovoid or roundish fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Citrullus vulgaris) of many varieties; also, the plant itself. The fruit sometimes weighs many pounds; its pulp is usually pink in color, and full of a sweet watery juice. It is a native of tropical Africa, but is now cultivated in many countries. See Illust. of Melon.  WATER METER Wa"ter me"ter.  A contrivance for measuring a supply of water delivered or received for any purpose, as from a street main.  WATER MILFOIL Wa"ter mil"foil. (Bot.)  Any plant of the genus Myriophyllum, aquatic herbs with whorled leaves, the submersed ones pinnately parted into capillary divisions.  WATER MILL Wa"ter mill`.  A mill whose machinery is moved by water; -- distinguished from a windmill, and a steam mill.  WATER MINT Wa"ter mint`.  A kind of mint (Mentha aquatica) growing in wet places, and sometimes having a perfume resembling bergamot.  WATER MITE Wa"ter mite`. (Zoöl.)  Any of numerous species of aquatic mites belonging to Hydrachna and allied genera of the family Hydrachnidæ, usually having the legs fringed and adapted for swimming. They are often red or red and black in color, and while young are parasites of fresh-water insects and mussels. Called also water tick, and water spider.  WATER MOCCASIN Wa"ter moc"ca*sin. (Zoöl.)  A venomous North American snake (Ancistrodon piscivorus) allied to the rattlesnake but destitute of a rattle. It lives in or about pools and ponds, and feeds largely of fishes. Called also water snake, water adder, water viper.  WATER MOLE Wa"ter mole`. (Zoöl.) (a) The shrew mole. See under Shrew. (b) The duck mole. See under Duck.  WATER MONITOR Wa"ter mon"i*tor. (Zoöl.)  A very large lizard (Varanaus salvator) native of India. It frequents the borders of streams and swims actively. It becomes five or six feet long. Called also two-banded monitor, and kabaragoya. The name is also applied to other aquatic monitors.  WATER MONKEY Water monkey.  A jar or bottle, as of porous earthenware, in which water is cooled by evaporation.  WATER MOTOR Wa"ter mo"tor.  1. A water engine.  2. A water wheel; especially, a small water wheel driven by water from a street main.  WATER MOUSE Wa"ter mouse`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of mice belonging to the genus Hydromys, native of Australia and Tasmania. Their hind legs are strong and their toes partially webbed. They live on the borders of streams, and swim well. They are remarkable as being the only rodents found in Australia.  WATER MURRAIN Wa"ter mur"rain.  A kind of murrain affecting cattle. Crabb.  WATER NEWT Wa"ter newt`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of aquatic salamanders; a triton.  WATER NYMPH Wa"ter nymph`.  1. (Myth.)  A goddess of any stream or other body of water, whether one of the Naiads, Nereids, or Oceanides.  2. (Bot.)  A water lily (Nymphæa).  WATER OAT Wa"ter oat`.  Indian rice. See under Rice.  WATER OPOSSUM Wa"ter o*pos"sum. (Zoöl.)  See Yapock, and the Note under Opossum.  WATER ORDEAL Wa"ter or"de*al.  Same as Ordeal by water. See the Note under Ordeal, n., 1.  WATER OUSEL; WATER OUZEL Wa"ter ou"sel, Wa"ter ou"zel. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of small insessorial birds of the genus Cinclus (or Hydrobates), especially the European water ousel (C. aquaticus), and the American water ousel (C. Mexicanus). These birds live about the water, and are in the habit of walking on the bottom of streams beneath the water in search of food.  WATER PARSNIP Wa"ter pars"nip. (Bot.)  Any plant of the aquatic umbelliferous genus Sium, poisonous herbs with pinnate or dissected leaves and small white flowers.  WATER PARTING Water parting. (Phys. Geog.)  A summit from the opposite sides of which rain waters flow to different streams; a line separating the drainage districts of two streams or coasts; a divide.  WATER PARTRIDGE Wa"ter par"tridge. (Zoöl.)  The ruddy duck. [Local, U. S.]  WATER PENNYWORT Wa"ter pen"ny*wort`. (Bot.)  Marsh pennywort. See under Marsh.  WATER PEPPER Wa"ter pep"per. (Bot.) (a) Smartweed. (b) Waterwort.  WATER PHEASANT Wa"ter pheas"ant. (Zoöl.) (a) The pintail. See Pintail, n., 1. (b) The goosander. (c) The hooded merganser.  WATER PIET Wa"ter pi"et. (Zoöl.)  The water ousel.  WATER PIG Wa"ter pig`.  1. (Zoöl.)  The capybara.  2. (Zoöl.)  The gourami.  WATER PILLAR Wa"ter pil"lar.  A waterspout. [Obs.]  WATER PIMPERNEL Wa"ter pim"per*nel. (Bot.)  A small white-flowered shrub; brookweed.  WATER PIPE Wa"ter pipe.  A pipe for conveying water.  WATER PITCHER Wa"ter pitch"er.  1. A pitcher for water.  2. (Bot.)  One of a family of plants having pitcher-shaped leaves. The sidesaddle flower (Sarracenia purpurea) is the type.  WATER PLANT Wa"ter plant`.  A plant that grows in water; an aquatic plant.  WATER PLANTAIN Wa"ter plan"tain. (Bot.)  A kind of plant with acrid leaves. See under 2d Plantain.  WATER PLATE Wa"ter plate`.  A plate heated by hot water contained in a double bottom or jacket. Knight.  WATER POA Wa"ter po"a. (Bot.)  Meadow reed grass. See under Reed.  WATER POCKET Water pocket.  A water hole in the bed of an intermittent stream, esp. the bowl at the foot of a cliff over which the stream leaps when in the flood stage. [Western U. S.]  WATER POISE Wa"ter poise`.  A hydrometer.  WATER PORE Wa"ter pore`  1. (Zoöl.)  A pore by which the water tubes of various invertebrates open externally.  2. (Bot.)  One of certain minute pores in the leaves of some plants. They are without true guardian cells, but in other respects closely resemble ordinary stomata. Goodale. 

WATERPOT:  A vessel for holding or conveying water, or for sprinkling water on cloth, plants, etc.  WATER POWER Wa"ter pow"er.  1. The power of water employed to move machinery, etc.  2. A fall of water which may be used to drive machinery; a site for a water mill; a water privilege.  WATER POX Wa"ter pox`. (Med.)  A variety of chicken pox, or varicella. Dunglison.  WATER PRIVILEGE Wa"ter priv"i*lege.  The advantage of using water as a mechanical power; also, the place where water is, or may be, so used. See under Privilege. 

WATERPROOF:  Proof against penetration or permeation by water; impervious to water; as, a waterproof garment; a waterproof roof. 

WATERPROOF:  To render impervious to water, as cloth, leather, etc. 

WATERPROOFING:  See under Purslane.  WATER QUALM Wa"ter qualm`. (Med.)  See Water brash, under Brash.  WATER RABBIT Wa"ter rab"bit. (Zoöl.)  See Water hare.  WATER RADISH Wa"ter rad"ish. (Bot.)  A coarse yellow-flowered plant (Nasturtium amphibium) related to the water cress and to the horse-radish.  WATER RAIL Wa"ter rail`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of rails of the genus Rallus, as the common European species (Rallus aquaticus). See Illust. of Rail.  WATER RAM Wa"ter ram`.  An hydraulic ram.  WATER RAT Wa"ter rat`.  1. (Zoöl.) (a) The water vole. See under Vole. (b) The muskrat. (c) The beaver rat. See under Beaver.  2. A thief on the water; a pirate.  WATER RATE Wa"ter rate`.  A rate or tax for a supply of water.  WATER RATTLE; WATER RATTLER Wa"ter rat"tle or Wa"ter rat"tler. (Zoöl.)  The diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus); -- so called from its preference for damp places near water.  WATER-RET Wa"ter-ret`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Water-retted; p. pr. & vb. n. Water- retting.]  To ret, or rot, in water, as flax; to water-rot.  WATER RICE Wa"ter rice".  Indian rice. See under Rice.  WATER ROCKET Wa"ter rock"et.  1. (Bot.)  A cruciferous plant (Nasturtium sylvestre) with small yellow flowers.  2. A kind of firework to be discharged in the water.  WATER-ROT Wa"ter-rot`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Water-rotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Water- rotting.]  To rot by steeping in water; to water-ret; as, to water-rot hemp or flax.  WATER SAIL Wa"ter sail`. (Naut.)  A small sail sometimes set under a studding sail or under a driver boom, and reaching nearly to the water.  WATER SAPPHIRE Wa"ter sap"phire. Etym: [Equiv. to F. saphir d'eau.] (Min.)  A deep blue variety of iolite, sometimes used as a gem; -- called also saphir d'eau. 

WATERSCAPE:  A sea view; -- distinguished from landscape. [Jocose] Fairholt.  WATER SCORPION Wa"ter scor"pi*on. (Zoöl.)  See Nepa.  WATER SCREW Wa"ter screw`.  A screw propeller. 

WATERSHED:  An aquatic American plant (Brasenia peltata) having floating oval leaves, and the covered with a clear jelly. 

WATERSHOOT:  That which serves to guard from falling water; a drip or dripstone.  3. A trough for discharging water.  WATER SHREW Wa"ter shrew`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of shrews having fringed feet and capable of swimming actively. The two common European species (Crossopus fodiens, and C. ciliatus) are the best known. The most common American water shrew, or marsh shrew (Neosorex palustris), is rarely seen, owing to its nocturnal habits.  WATER SNAIL Wa"ter snail`.  1. (Zoöl.)  Any aquatic pulmonate gastropod belonging to Planorbis, Limnæa, and allied genera; a pond snail.  2. (Mech.)  The Archimedean screw. [R.]  WATER SNAKE Wa"ter snake`. (Zoöl.) (a) A common North American colubrine snake (Tropidonotus sipedon) which lives chiefly in the water. (b) Any species of snakes of the family Homalopsidæ, all of which are aquatic in their habits.  WATER-SOAK Wa"ter-soak`, v. t.  To soak water; to fill the interstices of with water.  WATER SOLDIER Wa"ter sol`dier. (Bot.)  An aquatic European plant (Stratiotes aloides) with bayonet- shaped leaves.  WATER SOUCHY Wa"ter souch`y. (Cookery)  A dish consisting of small fish stewed and served in a little water. [Written also water souchet.] See Zoutch.  WATER SPANIEL Wa"ter span"iel.  A curly-haired breed of spaniels, naturally very fond of the water.  WATER SPARROW Wa"ter spar"row. (Zoöl.) (a) The reed warbler. [Prov. Eng.] (b) The reed bunting. [Prov. Eng.]  WATER SPEEDWELL Wa"ter speed"well. (Bot.)  A kind of speedwell (Veronica Anagallis) found in wet places in Europe and America.  WATER SPIDER Wa"ter spi"der. (Zoöl.) (a) An aquatic European spider (Argyoneta aquatica) which constructs its web beneath the surface of the water on water plants. It lives in a bell-shaped structure of silk, open beneath like a diving bell, and filled with air which the spider carries down in the form of small bubbles attached one at a time to the spinnerets and hind feet. Called also diving spider. (b) A water mite. (c) Any spider that habitually lives on or about the water, especially the large American species (Dolomedes lanceolatus) which runs rapidly on the surface of water; -- called also raft spider.  WATER SPINNER Wa"ter spin`ner. (Zoöl.)  The water spider. 

WATERSPOUT:  A remarkable meteorological phenomenon, of the nature of a tornado or whirlwind, usually observed over the sea, but sometimes over the land.  Note: Tall columns, apparently of cloud, and reaching from the sea to the clouds, are seen moving along, often several at once, sometimes straight and vertical, at other times inclined and tortuous, but always in rapid rotation. At their bases, the sea is violently agitated and heaped up with a leaping or boiling motion, water, at least in some cases, being actually carried up in considerable quantity, and scattered round from a great height, as solid bodies are by tornadoes on land. Sir J. Herschel.  WATER SPRITE Wa"ter sprite`.  A sprite, or spirit, imagined as inhabiting the water. J. R. Drake.  WATER-STANDING Wa"ter-stand`ing, a.  Tear-filled. [R.] "Many an orphan's water-standing eye." Shak.  WATER STAR GRASS Wa"ter star" grass`. (Bot.)  An aquatic plant (Schollera graminea) with grassy leaves, and yellow star-shaped blossoms.  WATER STARWORT Wa"ter star"wort`.  See under Starwort.  WATER SUPPLY Wa"ter sup*ply".  A supply of water; specifically, water collected, as in reservoirs, and conveyed, as by pipes, for use in a city, mill, or the like.  WATER TABBY Wa"ter tab"by.  A kind of waved or watered tabby. See Tabby, n., 1.  WATER TABLE Wa"ter ta"ble. (Arch.)  A molding, or other projection, in the wall of a building, to throw off the water, -- generally used in the United States for the first table above the surface of the ground (see Table, n., 9), that is, for the table at the top of the foundation and the beginning of the upper wall. 

WATERTATH:  A kind of coarse grass growing in wet grounds, and supposed to be injurious to sheep. [Prov. Eng.]  WATER TELESCOPE Water telescope.  1. (Optics) A telescope in which the medium between the objective and the eye piece is water instead of air, used in some experiments in aberration.  2.  A telescope devised for looking into a body of water.  WATER TENDER Water tender. (Nav.)  In the United States navy, a first-class petty officer in charge in a fireroom. He "tends" water to the boilers, sees that fires are properly cleaned and stoked, etc. There is also a rating of chief water tender, who is a chief petty officer.  WATER THERMOMETER Wa"ter ther*mom"e*ter. (Physics)  A thermometer filled with water instead of mercury, for ascertaining the precise temperature at which water attains its maximum density. This is about 39º Fahr., or 4º Centigrade; and from that point down to 32º Fahr., or 0º Centigrade, or the freezing point, it expands.  WATER THIEF Wa"ter thief`.  A pirate. [R.] Shak.  WATER THRUSH Wa"ter thrush`. (Zoöl.) (a) A North American bird of the genus Seiurus, belonging to the Warbler family, especially the common species (S. Noveboracensis). (b) The European water ousel. (b) The pied wagtail.  WATER THYME Wa"ter thyme`. (Bot.)  See Anacharis.  WATER TICK Wa"ter tick`.  Same as Water mite.  WATER TIGER Wa"ter ti"ger. (Zoöl.)  A diving, or water, beetle, especially the larva of a water beetle. See Illust. b of Water beetle.  WATER-TIGHT Wa"ter-tight`, a.  So tight as to retain, or not to admit, water; not leaky.  WATER TORCH Wa"ter torch`. (Bot.)  The common cat-tail (Typha latifolia), the spike of which makes a good torch soaked in oil. Dr. Prior.  WATER TOWER Wa"ter tow"er.  A large metal pipe made to be extended vertically by sections, and used for discharging water upon burning buildings.  WATER TREE Wa"ter tree`. (Bot.)  A climbing shrub (Tetracera alnifolia, or potatoria) of Western Africa, which pours out a watery sap from the freshly cut stems.  WATER TREFOIL Wa"ter tre"foil`. (Bot.)  The buck bean.  WATER TUBE Wa"ter tube`. (Zoöl.)  One of a system of tubular excretory organs having external openings, found in many invertebrates. They are believed to be analogous in function to the kidneys of vertebrates. See Illust. under Trematodea, and Sporocyst.  WATER TUPELO Wa"ter tu"pe*lo. (Bot.)  A species of large tupelo (Nyssa aquatica) growing in swamps in the southern of the United States. See Ogeechee lime.  WATER TURKEY Wa"ter tur"key. (Zoöl.)  The American snakebird. See Snakebird.  WATER TU TUYERE Wa"ter tu tu`yère".  A tuyère kept cool by water circulating within a casing. It is used for hot blast.  WATER TU TWIST Wa"ter tu twist`.  Yarn made by the throstle, or water frame.  WATER VINE Wa"ter vine`. (Bot.)  Any plant of the genus Phytocrene, climbing shrubs of Asia and Africa, the stems of which are singularly porous, and when cut stream with a limpid potable juice.  WATER VIOLET Wa"ter vi"o*let. (Bot.)  See under Violet.  WATER VIPER Wa"ter vi"per. (Zoöl.)  See Water moccasin.  WATER VOLE Wa"ter vole`. (Zoöl.)  See under Vole.  WATER WAGTAIL Wa"ter wag"tail`.  See under Wagtail. 

WATERWAY:  Heavy plank or timber extending fore and aft the whole length of a vessel's deck at the line of junction with the sides, forming a channel to the scuppers, which are cut through it. In iron vessels the waterway is variously constructed.  WATER WAY Wa"ter way`.  Same as Water course. 

WATERWEED:  See Anacharis.  WATER WHEEL Wa"ter wheel`.  1. Any wheel for propelling machinery or for other purposes, that is made to rotate by the direct action of water; -- called an overshot wheel when the water is applied at the top, an undershot wheel when at the bottom, a breast wheel when at an intermediate point; other forms are called reaction wheel, vortex wheel, turbine wheel, etc.  2. The paddle wheel of a steam vessel.  3. A wheel for raising water; a noria, or the like.  WATER-WHITE Wa"ter-white`, n. (Bot.)  A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribæa) growing in parched districts in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is sometimes used for quenching thirst.  WATER WILLOW Wa"ter wil`low. (Bot.)  An American aquatic plant (Dianthera Americana) with long willowlike leaves, and spikes of small purplish flowers.  WATER WING Wa"ter wing`. (Arch.)  One of two walls built on either side of the junction of a bridge with the bank of a river, to protect the abutment of the bridge and the bank from the action of the current.  WATER WITCH Wa"ter witch`. (Zoöl.) (a) The dabchick. (b) The stormy petrel. [Prov. Eng.]  WATER-WITHE Wa"ter-withe`, n. (Bot.)  A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribæa) growing in parched districts in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is sometimes used for quenching thirst. 

WATERWORK:  Painting executed in size or distemper, on canvas or walls, -- formerly, frequently taking the place of tapestry. Shak. Fairholt.  2. An hydraulic apparatus, or a system of works or fixtures, by which a supply of water is furnished for useful or ornamental purposes, including dams, sluices, pumps, aqueducts, distributing pipes, fountains, etc.; -- used chiefly in the plural. 

WATERWORN:  Worn, smoothed, or polished by the action of water; as, waterworn stones. 

WATERWORT:  Any plant of the natural order Elatineæ, consisting of two genera (Elatine, and Bergia), mostly small annual herbs growing in the edges of ponds. Some have a peppery or acrid taste. 

WATT:  A unit of power or activity equal to 107 C.G.S. units of power, or to work done at the rate of one joule a second. An English horse power is approximately equal to 746 watts. 

WATTEAU:  Having the appearance of that which is seen in pictures by Antoine Watteau, a French painter of the eighteenth century; --said esp. of women's garments; as, a Watteau bodice.  WATTEAU BACK Watteau back.  The back of a woman's gown in which one or more very broad folds are carried from the neck to the floor without being held in at the waist, while the front and sides of the gown are shaped to the person and have a belt or its equivalent. 

WATTLEBIRD:  Any one of several species of honey eaters belonging to Anthochæra and allied genera of the family Meliphagidæ. These birds usually have a large and conspicuous wattle of naked skin hanging down below each ear. They are natives of Australia and adjacent islands.  Note: The best-known species (Anthochæra carunculata) has the upper parts grayish brown, with a white stripe on each feather, and the wing and tail quills dark brown or blackish, tipped with withe. Its wattles, in life, are light blood-red. Called also wattled crow, wattled bee-eater, wattled honey eater. Another species (A. inauris) is streaked with black, gray, and white, and its long wattles are white, tipped with orange. The bush wattlebirds, belonging to the genus Anellobia, are closely related, but lack conspicuous wattles. The most common species (A. mellivora) is dark brown, finely streaked with white. Called also goruck creeper.  2. (Zoöl.)  The Australian brush turkey. 

WATTLED:  Furnished with wattles, or pendent fleshy processes at the chin or throat. The wattled cocks strut to and fro. Longfellow. 

WATTLESS:  Without any power (cf. Watt); -- said of an alternating current or component of current when it differs in phase by ninety degrees from the electromotive force which produces it, or of an electromotive force or component thereof when the current it produces differs from it in phase by 90 degrees. 

WATTLING:  The act or process of binding or platting with twigs; also, the network so formed. Made with a wattling of canes or sticks. Dampier. 

WATTMETER:  An instrument for measuring power in watts, -- much used in measuring the energy of an electric current.  WAUCHT; WAUGHT Waucht, Waught, n. Etym: [Cf. Quaff.]  A large draught of any liquid. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

WAUL:  To cry as a cat; to squall; to wail. [Written also wawl.] The helpless infant, coming wauling and crying into the world. Sir W. Scott. 

WAUR:  Worse. [Scot.] Murder and waur than number. Sir W. Scott. 

WAVE:  See Wave. Sir H. Wotton. Burke. 

WAVE:  A vibration propagated from particle to particle through a body or elastic medium, as in the transmission of sound; an assemblage of vibrating molecules in all phases of a vibration, with no phase repeated; a wave of vibration; an undulation. See Undulation.  3. Water; a body of water. [Poetic] "Deep drank Lord Marmion of the wave." Sir W. Scott. Build a ship to save thee from the flood, I 'll furnish thee with fresh wave, bread, and wine. Chapman.  4. Unevenness; inequality of surface. Sir I. Newton.  5. A waving or undulating motion; a signal made with the hand, a flag, etc.  6. The undulating line or streak of luster on cloth watered, or calendered, or on damask steel.  7. Fig.: A swelling or excitement of thought, feeling, or energy; a tide; as, waves of enthusiasm. Wave front (Physics), the surface of initial displacement of the particles in a medium, as a wave of vibration advances.  -- Wave length (Physics), the space, reckoned in the direction of propagation, occupied by a complete wave or undulation, as of light, sound, etc.; the distance from a point or phase in a wave to the nearest point at which the same phase occurs.  -- Wave line (Shipbuilding), a line of a vessel's hull, shaped in accordance with the wave-line system.  -- Wave-line system, Wave-line theory (Shipbuilding), a system or theory of designing the lines of a vessel, which takes into consideration the length and shape of a wave which travels at a certain speed.  -- Wave loaf, a loaf for a wave offering. Lev. viii. 27.  -- Wave moth (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of small geometrid moths belonging to Acidalia and allied genera; -- so called from the wavelike color markings on the wings.  -- Wave offering, an offering made in the Jewish services by waving the object, as a loaf of bread, toward the four cardinal points. Num. xviii. 11.  -- Wave of vibration (Physics), a wave which consists in, or is occasioned by, the production and transmission of a vibratory state from particle to particle through a body.  -- Wave surface. (a) (Physics) A surface of simultaneous and equal displacement of the particles composing a wave of vibration. (b) (Geom.) A mathematical surface of the fourth order which, upon certain hypotheses, is the locus of a wave surface of light in the interior of crystals. It is used in explaining the phenomena of double refraction. See under Refraction.  -- Wave theory. (Physics) See Undulatory theory, under Undulatory. 

WAVED:  Having undulations like waves; -- said of one of the lines in heraldry which serve as outlines to the ordinaries, etc. 

WAVELESS:  Free from waves; undisturbed; not agitated; as, the waveless sea. 

WAVELET:  A little wave; a ripple. 

WAVELLITE:  A hydrous phosphate of alumina, occurring usually in hemispherical radiated forms varying in color from white to yellow, green, or black. 

WAVER:  A sapling left standing in a fallen wood. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

WAVERER:  One who wavers; one who is unsettled in doctrine, faith, opinion, or the like. Shak. 

WAVERINGLY:  In a wavering manner. 

WAVERINGNESS:  The quality or state of wavering. 

WAVESON:  Goods which, after shipwreck, appear floating on the waves, or sea.  WAVE-WORN Wave"-*worn`, a.  Worn by the waves. The shore that o'er his wave-worn basis bowed. Shak. 

WAVEY:  The snow goose. [Canadian, & Local U. S.] 

WAVINESS:  The quality or state of being wavy. 

WAVURE:  See Waivure. [R.] 

WAVY:  Undulating on the border or surface; waved. 

WAWASKEESH:  The wapiti, or wapiti, or American elk. 

WAWE:  Woe. [Obs.] 

WAWE:  A wave. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser. 

WAWL:  See Waul. Shak. 

WAX:  Cerumen, or earwax. See Cerumen. (b) A waxlike composition used for uniting surfaces, for excluding air, and for other purposes; as, sealing wax, grafting wax, etching wax, etc. (c) A waxlike composition used by shoemakers for rubbing their thread. (d) (Zoöl.) A substance similar to beeswax, secreted by several species of scale insects, as the Chinese wax. See Wax insect, below. (e) (Bot.) A waxlike product secreted by certain plants. See Vegetable wax, under Vegetable. (f) (Min.)  A substance, somewhat resembling wax, found in connection with certain deposits of rock salt and coal; -- called also mineral wax, and ozocerite. (g) Thick sirup made by boiling down the sap of the sugar maple, and then cooling. [Local U.S.] Japanese wax, a waxlike substance made in Japan from the berries of certain species of Rhus, esp. R. succedanea.  -- Mineral wax. (Min.) See Wax, 2 (f), above.  -- Wax cloth. See Waxed cloth, under Waxed.  -- Wax end. See Waxed end, under Waxed.  -- Wax flower, a flower made of, or resembling, wax.  -- Wax insect (Zoöl.), any one of several species of scale insects belonging to the family Coccidæ, which secrete from their bodies a waxlike substance, especially the Chinese wax insect (Coccus Sinensis) from which a large amount of the commercial Chinese wax is obtained. Called also pela.  -- Wax light, a candle or taper of wax.  -- Wax moth (Zoöl.), a pyralid moth (Galleria cereana) whose larvæ feed upon honeycomb, and construct silken galleries among the fragments. The moth has dusky gray wings streaked with brown near the outer edge. The larva is yellowish white with brownish dots. Called also bee moth.  -- Wax myrtle. (Bot.) See Bayberry.  -- Wax painting, a kind of painting practiced by the ancients, under the name of encaustic. The pigments were ground with wax, and diluted. After being applied, the wax was melted with hot irons and the color thus fixed.  -- Wax palm. (Bot.) (a) A species of palm (Ceroxylon Andicola) native of the Andes, the stem of which is covered with a secretion, consisting of two thirds resin and one third wax, which, when melted with a third of fat, makes excellent candles. (b) A Brazilian tree (Copernicia cerifera) the young leaves of which are covered with a useful waxy secretion.  -- Wax paper, paper prepared with a coating of white wax and other ingredients.  -- Wax plant (Bot.), a name given to several plants, as: (a) The Indian pipe (see under Indian). (b) The Hoya carnosa, a climbing plant with polished, fleshy leaves. (c) Certain species of Begonia with similar foliage.  -- Wax tree (Bot.) (a) A tree or shrub (Ligustrum lucidum) of China, on which certain insects make a thick deposit of a substance resembling white wax. (b) A kind of sumac (Rhus succedanea) of Japan, the berries of which yield a sort of wax. (c) A rubiaceous tree (Elæagia utilis) of New Grenada, called by the inhabitants "arbol del cera." -- Wax yellow, a dull yellow, resembling the natural color of beeswax. 

WAX:  To smear or rub with wax; to treat with wax; as, to wax a thread or a table. Waxed cloth, cloth covered with a coating of wax, used as a cover, of tables and for other purposes; -- called also wax cloth.  -- Waxed end, a thread pointed with a bristle and covered with shoemaker's wax, used in sewing leather, as for boots, shoes, and the like; -- called also wax end. Brockett. 

WAXBERRY:  The wax-covered fruit of the wax myrtle, or bayberry. See Bayberry, and Candleberry tree. 

WAXBILL:  Any one of numerous species of finchlike birds belonging to Estrelda and allied genera, native of Asia, Africa, and Australia. The bill is large, conical, and usually red in color, resembling sealing wax. Several of the species are often kept as cage birds. 

WAXBIRD:  The waxwing. 

WAXINESS:  Quality or state of being waxy. 

WAXWING:  Any one of several species of small birds of the genus Ampelis, in which some of the secondary quills are usually tipped with small horny ornaments resembling red sealing wax. The Bohemian waxwing (see under Bohemian) and the cedar bird are examples. Called also waxbird. 

WAXWORK:  An American climbing shrub (Celastrus scandens). It bears a profusion of yellow berrylike pods, which open in the autumn, and display the scarlet coverings of the seeds. 

WAXWORKS:  An exhibition of wax figures, or the place of exhibition. 

WAXY:  Resembling wax in appearance or consistency; viscid; adhesive; soft; hence, yielding; pliable; impressible. "Waxy to persuasion." Bp. Hall. Waxy degeneration (Med.), amyloid degeneration. See under Amyloid.  -- Waxy kidney, Waxy liver, etc. (Med.), a kidney or liver affected by waxy degeneration. 

WAY:  Away. [Obs. or Archaic] Chaucer. To do way, to take away; to remove. [Obs.] "Do way your hands." Chaucer.  -- To make way with, to make away with. See under Away. [Archaic] 

WAY:  The timbers on which a ship is launched.  11. pl. (Mach.)  The longitudinal guides, or guiding surfaces, on the bed of a planer, lathe, or the like, along which a table or carriage moves.  12. (Law)  Right of way. See below. By the way, in passing; apropos; aside; apart from, though connected with, the main object or subject of discourse.  -- By way of, for the purpose of; as being; in character of.  -- Covert way. (Fort.) See Covered way, under Covered.  -- In the family way. See under Family.  -- In the way, so as to meet, fall in with, obstruct, hinder, etc.  -- In the way with, traveling or going with; meeting or being with; in the presence of.  -- Milky way. (Astron.) See Galaxy, 1.  -- No way, No ways. See Noway, Noways, in the Vocabulary.  -- On the way, traveling or going; hence, in process; advancing toward completion; as, on the way to this country; on the way to success.  -- Out of the way. See under Out.  -- Right of way (Law), a right of private passage over another's ground. It may arise either by grant or prescription. It may be attached to a house, entry, gate, well, or city lot, as well as to a country farm. Kent.  -- To be under way, or To have way (Naut.), to be in motion, as when a ship begins to move.  -- To give way. See under Give.  -- To go one's way, or To come one's way, to go or come; to depart or come along. Shak.  -- To go the way of all the earth, to die.  -- To make one's way, to advance in life by one's personal efforts.  -- To make way. See under Make, v. t.  -- Ways and means. (a) Methods; resources; facilities. (b) (Legislation) Means for raising money; resources for revenue.  -- Way leave, permission to cross, or a right of way across, land; also, rent paid for such right. [Eng] -- Way of the cross (Eccl.), the course taken in visiting in rotation the stations of the cross. See Station, n., 7 (c).  -- Way of the rounds (Fort.), a space left for the passage of the rounds between a rampart and the wall of a fortified town.  -- Way pane, a pane for cartage in irrigated land. See Pane, n., 4. [Prov. Eng.] -- Way passenger, a passenger taken up, or set down, at some intermediate place between the principal stations on a line of travel.  -- Ways of God, his providential government, or his works.  -- Way station, an intermediate station between principal stations on a line of travel, especially on a railroad.  -- Way train, a train which stops at the intermediate, or way, stations; an accommodation train.  -- Way warden, the surveyor of a road.  Syn.  -- Street; highway; road.  -- Way, Street, Highway, Road. Way is generic, denoting any line for passage or conveyance; a highway is literally one raised for the sake of dryness and convenience in traveling; a road is, strictly, a way for horses and carriages; a street is, etymologically, a paved way, as early made in towns and cities; and, hence, the word is distinctively applied to roads or highways in compact settlements. All keep the broad highway, and take delight With many rather for to go astray. Spenser. There is but one road by which to climb up. Addison. When night Darkens the streets, then wander forth the sons Of Belial, flown with insolence and wine. Milton. 

WAY:  To go or travel to; to go in, as a way or path. [Obs.] "In land not wayed." Wyclif. 

WAY:  To move; to progress; to go. [R.] On a time as they together wayed. Spenser. 

WAYBILL:  A list of passengers in a public vehicle, or of the baggage or gods transported by a common carrier on a land route. When the goods are transported by water, the list is called a bill of lading. 

WAYBREAD:  The common dooryard plantain (Plantago major). 

WAYBUNG:  An Australian insessorial bird (Corcorax melanorhamphus) noted for the curious actions of the male during the breeding season. It is black with a white patch on each wing. 

WAYED:  Used to the way; broken. [R.] A horse that is not well wayed; he starts at every bird that flies out the hedge. Selden. 

WAYFARE:  To journey; to travel; to go to and fro. [Obs.] A certain Laconian, as he wayfared, came unto a place where there dwelt an old friend of his. Holland. 

WAYFARE:  The act of journeying; travel; passage. [Obs.] Holland. 

WAYFARER:  One who travels; a traveler; a passenger. 

WAYFARING:  Traveling; passing; being on a journey. "A wayfaring man." Judg. xix. 17. Wayfaring tree (Bot.), a European shrub (Viburnum lantana) having large ovate leaves and dense cymes of small white flowers.  -- American wayfaring tree (Bot.), the (Viburnum lantanoides). 

WAYGATE:  The tailrace of a mill. Knight.  WAY-GOING Way"-go`ing, a.  Going away; departing; of or pertaining to one who goes away. Way-going crop (Law of Leases), a crop of grain to which tenants for years are sometimes entitled by custom; grain sown in the fall to be reaped at the next harvest; a crop which will not ripen until after the termination of the lease. Burrill.  WAY-GOOSE Way"-goose`, n.  See Wayz-goose, n., 2. [Eng.] 

WAYK:  Weak. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WAYLAY:  To lie in wait for; to meet or encounter in the way; especially, to watch for the passing of, with a view to seize, rob, or slay; to beset in ambush. Falstaff, Bardolph, Peto, and Gadshill shall rob those men that we have already waylaid. Shak. She often contrived to waylay him in his walks. Sir W. Scott. 

WAYLAYER:  One who waylays another. 

WAYLESS:  Having no road or path; pathless. 

WAYLEWAY:  See Welaway. [Obs.] 

WAYMAKER:  One who makes a way; a precursor. [R.] Bacon. 

WAYMARK:  A mark to guide in traveling. 

WAYMENT:  To lament; to grieve; to wail. [Written also waiment.] [Obs.] Thilke science . . . maketh a man to waymenten. Chaucer. For what boots it to weep and wayment, When ill is chanced Spenser. 

WAYMENT:  Grief; lamentation; mourning. [Written also waiment.] [Obs.] Spenser.  -WAYS -ways.  A suffix formed from way by the addition of the adverbial -s (see -wards). It is often used interchangeably with wise; as, endways or endwise; noways or nowise, etc.  WAY SHAFT Way" shaft`.  1. (Mach.)  A rock shaft.  2. (Mining)  An interior shaft, usually one connecting two levels. Raymond. 

WAYSIDE:  The side of the way; the edge or border of a road or path. 

WAYSIDE:  Of or pertaining to the wayside; as, wayside flowers. "A wayside inn." Longfellow. 

WAYWARD:  Taking one's own way; disobedient; froward; perverse; willful. My wife is in a wayward mood. Shak. Wayward beauty doth not fancy move. Fairfax. Wilt thou forgive the wayward thought Keble. -- Way"ward*ly, adv.  -- Way"ward*ness, n.  WAY-WISE Way"-wise`, a.  Skillful in finding the way; well acquainted with the way or route; wise from having traveled. 

WAYWISER:  An instrument for measuring the distance which one has traveled on the road; an odometer, pedometer, or perambulator. The waywiser to a coach, exactly measuring the miles, and showing them by an index. Evelyn. 

WAYWODE:  Originally, the title of a military commander in various Slavonic countries; afterwards applied to governors of towns or provinces. It was assumed for a time by the rulers of Moldavia and Wallachia, who were afterwards called hospodars, and has also been given to some inferior Turkish officers. [Written also vaivode, voivode, waiwode, and woiwode.] 

WAYWODESHIP:  The office, province, or jurisdiction of a waywode. 

WAYWORN:  Wearied by traveling.  WAYZ-GOOSE Wayz"-goose`, n. Etym: [Wase stubble + goose.]  1. A stubble goose. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]  2. An annual feast of the persons employed in a printing office. [Written also way-goose.] [Eng.] 

WE:  The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb.  Note: We is frequently used to express men in general, including the speaker. We is also often used by individuals, as authors, editors, etc., in speaking of themselves, in order to avoid the appearance of egotism in the too frequent repetition of the pronoun I. The plural style is also in use among kings and other sovereigns, and is said to have been begun by King John of England. Before that time, monarchs used the singular number in their edicts. The German and the French sovereigns followed the example of King John in a. d. 1200. 

WEAK:  Tending towards lower prices; as, a weak market.  3. (Gram.) (a) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) and past participle by adding to the present the suffix - ed, -d, or the variant form -t; as in the verbs abash, abashed; abate, abated; deny, denied; feel, felt. See Strong, 19 (a). (b) Pertaining to, or designating, a noun in Anglo-Saxon, etc., the stem of which ends in -n. See Strong, 19 (b).  Note: Weak is often used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, weak-eyed, weak-handed, weak-hearted, weak-minded, weak-spirited, and the like.  Weak conjugation (Gram.), the conjugation of weak verbs; -- called also new, or regular, conjugation, and distinguished from the old, or irregular, conjugation.  -- Weak declension (Anglo-Saxon Gram.), the declension of weak nouns; also, one of the declensions of adjectives.  -- Weak side, the side or aspect of a person's character or disposition by which he is most easily affected or influenced; weakness; infirmity.  -- Weak sore or ulcer (Med.), a sore covered with pale, flabby, sluggish granulations. 

WEAK:  To make or become weak; to weaken. [R.] Never to seek weaking variety. Marston. 

WEAKEN:  To become weak or weaker; to lose strength, spirit, or determination; to become less positive or resolute; as, the patient weakened; the witness weakened on cross-examination. "His notion weakens, his discernings are lethargied." Shak. 

WEAKENER:  One who, or that which, weakens. "[Fastings] weakeners of sin." South. 

WEAKFISH:  Any fish of the genus Cynoscion; a squeteague; -- so called from its tender mouth. See Squeteague. Spotted weakfish (Zoöl.), the spotted squeteague.  WEAK-HEARTED Weak"-heart`ed, a.  Having little courage; of feeble spirit; dispirited; faint- hearted. "Weak-hearted enemies." Shak. 

WEAKISH:  Somewhat weak; rather weak. 

WEAKISHNESS:  Quality or state of being weakish.  WEAK-KNEED Weak"-kneed`, a.  Having weak knees; hence, easily yielding; wanting resolution. H. James. 

WEAKLING:  A weak or feeble creature. Shak. "All looking on him as a weakling, which would post to the grave." Fuller. We may not be weaklings because we have a strong enemy. Latimer. 

WEAKLING:  Weak; feeble. Sir T. North. 

WEAKLY:  In a weak manner; with little strength or vigor; feebly. 

WEAKLY:  Not strong of constitution; infirm; feeble; as, a weakly woman; a man of a weakly constitution.  WEAK-MINDED Weak"-mind`ed, a.  Having a weak mind, either naturally or by reason of disease; feebleminded; foolish; idiotic.  -- Weak"-mind`ed*ness, n. 

WEAL:  The mark of a stripe. See Wale. 

WEAL:  To mark with stripes. See Wale. 

WEAL:  To promote the weal of; to cause to be prosperous. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.  WEAL-BALANCED Weal"-bal`anced, a.  Balanced or considered with reference to public weal. [Obs.] Shak. 

WEALD:  A wood or forest; a wooded land or region; also, an open country; -- often used in place names. Fled all night long by glimmering waste and weald, And heard the spirits of the waste and weald Moan as she fled. Tennyson. Weald clay (Geol.), the uppermost member of the Wealden strata. See Wealden. 

WEALDEN:  Of or pertaining to the lowest division of the Cretaceous formation in England and on the Continent, which overlies the Oölitic series. 

WEALDEN:  The Wealden group or strata. 

WEALDISH:  Of or pertaining to a weald, esp. to the weald in the county of Kent, England. [Obs.] Fuller. 

WEALFUL:  Weleful. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WEALSMAN:  A statesman; a politician. [R.] Shak. 

WEALTHFUL:  Full of wealth; wealthy; prosperous. [R.] Sir T. More.  -- Wealth"ful*ly, adv. [R.] 

WEALTHILY:  In a wealthy manner; richly. I come to wive it wealthily in Padua. Shak. 

WEALTHINESS:  The quality or state of being wealthy, or rich; richness; opulence. 

WEAN:  A weanling; a young child. I, being but a yearling wean. Mrs. Browning. 

WEANEDNESS:  Quality or state of being weaned. 

WEANEL:  A weanling. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WEANLING:  a. & n. from Wean, v. The weaning of the whelp is the great test of the skill of the kennel man. J. H. Walsh. Weaning brash. (Med.) See under Brash. 

WEANLING:  A child or animal newly weaned; a wean. 

WEANLING:  Recently weaned. Milton. 

WEAPON:  A thorn, prickle, or sting with which many plants are furnished. Concealed weapons. See under Concealed.  -- Weapon salve, a salve which was supposed to cure a wound by being applied to the weapon that made it. [Obs.] Boyle. 

WEAPONED:  Furnished with weapons, or arms; armed; equipped. 

WEAPONLESS:  Having no weapon. 

WEAPONRY:  Weapons, collectively; as, an array of weaponry. [Poetic] 

WEAR:  Same as Weir. 

WEAR:  To cause to go about, as a vessel, by putting the helm up, instead of alee as in tacking, so that the vessel's bow is turned away from, and her stern is presented to, the wind, and, as she turns still farther, her sails fill on the other side; to veer. 

WEARABLE:  Capable of being worn; suitable to be worn. 

WEARIABLE:  That may be wearied. 

WEARIFUL:  Abounding in qualities which cause weariness; wearisome.  -- Wea"ri*ful*ly, adv. 

WEARILESS:  Incapable of being wearied. 

WEARILY:  In a weary manner. 

WEARINESS:  The quality or state of being weary or tried; lassitude; exhaustion of strength; fatigue. With weariness and wine oppressed. Dryden. A man would die, though he were neither valiant nor miserable, only upon a weariness to do the same thing so oft over and over. Bacon. 

WEARING:  Pertaining to, or designed for, wear; as, wearing apparel. 

WEARISOME:  Causing weariness; tiresome; tedious; weariful; as, a wearisome march; a wearisome day's work; a wearisome book. These high wild hills and rough uneven ways Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome. Shak.  Syn.  -- Irksome; tiresome; tedious; fatiguing; annoying; vexatious. See Irksome.  -- Wea"ri*some*ly, adv.  -- Wea"ri*some*ness, n. 

WEARY:  To grow tired; to become exhausted or impatient; as, to weary of an undertaking. 

WEASAND:  The windpipe; -- called also, formerly, wesil. [Formerly, written also, wesand, and wezand.] Cut his weasand with thy knife. Shak. 

WEASEL:  Any one of various species of small carnivores belonging to the genus Putorius, as the ermine and ferret. They have a slender, elongated body, and are noted for the quickness of their movements and for their bloodthirsty habit in destroying poultry, rats, etc. The ermine and some other species are brown in summer, and turn white in winter; others are brown at all seasons. Malacca weasel, the rasse.  -- Weasel coot, a female or young male of the smew; -- so called from the resemblance of the head to that of a weasel. Called also weasel duck.  -- Weasel lemur, a short-tailed lemur (Lepilemur mustelinus). It is reddish brown above, grayish brown below, with the throat white.  WEASEL-FACED Wea"sel-faced`, a.  Having a thin, sharp face, like a weasel. 

WEASER:  The American merganser; -- called also weaser sheldrake. [Local, U. S.] 

WEASINESS:  Quality or state of being weasy; full feeding; sensual indulgence. [Obs.] Joye. 

WEASY:  Given to sensual indulgence; gluttonous. [Obs.] Joye. 

WEATHER:  To sail or pass to the windward of; as, to weather a cape; to weather another ship.  4. (Falconry)  To place (a hawk) unhooded in the open air. Encyc. Brit. To weather a point. (a) (Naut.) To pass a point of land, leaving it on the lee side. (b) Hence, to gain or accomplish anything against opposition.  -- To weather out, to encounter successfully, though with difficulty; as, to weather out a storm. 

WEATHER:  To undergo or endure the action of the atmosphere; to suffer meteorological influences; sometimes, to wear away, or alter, under atmospheric influences; to suffer waste by weather. The organisms . . . seem indestructible, while the hard matrix in which they are imbedded has weathered from around them. H. Miller. 

WEATHER:  Being toward the wind, or windward -- opposed to lee; as, weather bow, weather braces, weather gauge, weather lifts, weather quarter, weather shrouds, etc. Weather gauge. (a) (Naut.) The position of a ship to the windward of another. (b) Fig.: A position of advantage or superiority; advantage in position. To veer, and tack, and steer a cause Against the weather gauge of laws. Hudibras. -- Weather helm (Naut.), a tendency on the part of a sailing vessel to come up into the wind, rendering it necessary to put the helm up, that is, toward the weather side.  -- Weather shore (Naut.), the shore to the windward of a ship. Totten.  -- Weather tide (Naut.), the tide which sets against the lee side of a ship, impelling her to the windward. Mar. Dict.  WEATHER-BEATEN Weath"er-beat`en, a.  Beaten or harassed by the weather; worn by exposure to the weather, especially to severe weather. Shak.  WEATHER-BIT Weath"er-bit`, n. (Naut.)  A turn of the cable about the end of the windlass, without the bits. 

WEATHERBIT:  To take another turn with, as a cable around a windlass. Totten.  WEATHER-BITTEN Weath"er-bit`ten, a.  Eaten into, defaced, or worn, by exposure to the weather. Coleridge. 

WEATHERBOARD:  To nail boards upon so as to lap one over another, in order to exclude rain, snow, etc. Gwilt. 

WEATHERBOARDING:  Kept in port or at anchor by storms; delayed by bad weather; as, a weather-bound vessel. 

WEATHERCOCK:  To supply with a weathercock; to serve as a weathercock for. Whose blazing wyvern weathercock the spire. Tennyson.  WEATHER-DRIVEN Weath"er-driv`en, a.  Driven by winds or storms; forced by stress of weather. Carew. 

WEATHERED:  Made sloping, so as to throw off water; as, a weathered cornice or window sill.  2. (Geol.)  Having the surface altered in color, texture, or composition, or the edges rounded off by exposure to the elements.  WEATHER-FEND Weath"er-fend`, v. t.  To defend from the weather; to shelter. Shak. [We] barked the white spruce to weather-fend the roof. Emerson. 

WEATHERGLASS:  An instrument to indicate the state of the atmosphere, especially changes of atmospheric pressure, and hence changes of weather, as a barometer or baroscope. Poor man's weatherglass. (Bot.) See under Poor. 

WEATHERING:  The action of the elements on a rock in altering its color, texture, or composition, or in rounding off its edges. 

WEATHERLINESS:  The quality of being weatherly. 

WEATHERLY:  Working, or able to sail, close to the wind; as, a weatherly ship. Cooper.  WEATHER MAP Weath"er map.  A map or chart showing the principal meteorological elements at a given hour and over an extended region. Such maps usually show the height of the barometer, the temperature of the air, the relative humidity, the state of the weather, and the direction and velocity of the wind. Isobars and isotherms outline the general distribution of temperature and pressure, while shaded areas indicate the sections over which rain has just fallen. Other lines inclose areas where the temperature has fallen or risen markedly. In tabular form are shown changes of pressure and of temperature, maximum and minimum temperatures, and total rain for each weather station since the last issue, usually 12 hours. 

WEATHERMOST:  Being farthest to the windward. 

WEATHERPROOF:  Proof against rough weather.  WEATHER SIGNAL Weather signal.  Any signal giving information about the weather. The system used by the United States Weather Bureau includes temperature, cold or hot wave, rain or snow, wind direction, storm, and hurricane signals.  WEATHER STATION Weather station. (Meteor.)  A station for taking meteorological observations, making weather forecasts, or disseminating such information. Such stations are of the first order when they make observations of all the important elements either hourly or by self-registering instruments; of the second order when only important observations are taken; of the third order when simpler work is done, as to record rainfall and maximum and minimum temperatures. 

WEATHERWISE:  Skillful in forecasting the changes of the weather. Hakluyt. 

WEATHERWISER:  Something that foreshows the weather. [Obs.] Derham. 

WEATHERWORN:  Worn by the action of, or by exposure to, the weather. 

WEAVE:  A particular method or pattern of weaving; as, the cassimere weave. 

WEAVER:  A weaver bird.  3. (Zoöl.)  An aquatic beetle of the genus Gyrinus. See Whirling. Weaver bird (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of Asiatic, Fast Indian, and African birds belonging to Ploceus and allied genera of the family Ploceidæ. Weaver birds resemble finches and sparrows in size, colors, and shape of the bill. They construct pensile nests composed of interlaced grass and other similar materials. In some of the species the nest is retort-shaped, with the opening at the bottom of the tube.  -- Weavers' shuttle (Zoöl.), an East Indian marine univalve shell (Radius volva); -- so called from its shape. See Illust. of Shuttle shell, under Shuttle. 

WEAVERFISH:  See Weever. 

WEAVING:  An incessant motion of a horse's head, neck, and body, from side to side, fancied to resemble the motion of a hand weaver in throwing the shuttle. Youatt. 

WEAZAND:  See Weasand. [Obs.] 

WEAZEN:  Thin; sharp; withered; wizened; as, a weazen face. They were weazen and shriveled. Dickens. 

WEAZENY:  Somewhat weazen; shriveled. [Colloq.] "Weazeny, baked pears." Lowell. 

WEB:  A weaver. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WEB:  A band of webbing used to regulate the extension of the hood.  6. A thin metal sheet, plate, or strip, as of lead. And Christians slain roll up in webs of lead. Fairfax. Specifically: - (a) The blade of a sword. [Obs.] The sword, whereof the web was steel, Pommel rich stone, hilt gold. Fairfax.  (b) The blade of a saw. (c) The thin, sharp part of a colter. (d) The bit of a key.  7. (Mach. & Engin.)  A plate or thin portion, continuous or perforated, connecting stiffening ribs or flanges, or other parts of an object. Specifically: -- (a) The thin vertical plate or portion connecting the upper and lower flanges of an lower flanges of an iron girder, rolled beam, or railroad rail. (b) A disk or solid construction serving, instead of spokes, for connecting the rim and hub, in some kinds of car wheels, sheaves, etc. (c) The arm of a crank between the shaft and the wrist. (d) The part of a blackmith's anvil between the face and the foot.  8. (Med.)  Pterygium; -- called also webeye. Shak.  9. (Anat.)  The membrane which unites the fingers or toes, either at their bases, as in man, or for a greater part of their length, as in many water birds and amphibians.  10. (Zoöl.)  The series of barbs implanted on each side of the shaft of a feather, whether stiff and united together by barbules, as in ordinary feathers, or soft and separate, as in downy feathers. See Feather.  Pin and web (Med.), two diseases of the eye, caligo and pterygium; -- sometimes wrongly explained as one disease. See Pin, n., 8, and Web, n., 8. "He never yet had pinne or webbe, his sight for to decay." Gascoigne.  -- Web member (Engin.), one of the braces in a web system.  -- Web press, a printing press which takes paper from a roll instead of being fed with sheets.  -- Web system (Engin.), the system of braces connecting the flanges of a lattice girder, post, or the like. 

WEB:  To unite or surround with a web, or as if with a web; to envelop; to entangle. 

WEBBED:  Having the toes united by a membrane, or web; as, the webbed feet of aquatic fowls. 

WEBBER:  One who forms webs; a weaver; a webster. [Obs.] 

WEBBING:  A woven band of cotton or flax, used for reins, girths, bed bottoms, etc. 

WEBBY:  Of or pertaining to a web or webs; like a web; filled or covered with webs. Bats on their webby wings in darkness move. Crabbe. 

WEBER:  The standard unit of electrical quantity, and also of current. See Coulomb, and Amp. [Obs.] 

WEBEYE:  See Web, n., 8.  WEB-FINGERED Web"-fin`gered, a.  Having the fingers united by a web for a considerable part of their length. 

WEBFOOT:  Any web-footed bird.  WEB-FOOTED Web"-foot`ed, a.  Having webbed feet; palmiped; as, a goose or a duck is a web- footed fowl. 

WEBSTER:  A weaver; originally, a female weaver. [Obs.] Brathwait. 

WEBSTERITE:  A hydrous sulphate of alumina occurring in white reniform masses.  WEB-TOED Web"-toed`, a.  Having the toes united by a web for a considerable part of their length. 

WEBWORM:  Any one of various species of moths whose gregarious larvæ eat the leaves of trees, and construct a large web to which they retreat when not feeding.  Note: The most destructive webworms belong to the family Bombycidæ, as the fall webworm (Hyphantria textor), which feeds on various fruit and forest trees, and the common tent caterpillar, which feeds on various fruit trees (see Tent caterpillar, under Tent.) The grapevine webworm is the larva of a geometrid moth (see Vine inchworm, under Vine). 

WED:  A pledge; a pawn. [Obs.] Gower. Piers Plowman. Let him be ware, his neck lieth to wed [i. e., for a security]. Chaucer. 

WED:  To contact matrimony; to marry. "When I shall wed." Shak. 

WEDDAHS:  See Veddahs. 

WEDDER:  See Wether. Sir W. Scott. 

WEDDING:  Nuptial ceremony; nuptial festivities; marriage; nuptials. Simple and brief was the wedding, as that of Ruth and of Boaz. Longfellow.  Note: Certain anniversaries of an unbroken marriage have received fanciful, and more or less appropriate, names. Thus, the fifth anniversary is called the wooden wedding; the tenth, the tin wedding; the fifteenth, the crystal wedding; the twentieth, the china wedding; the twenty-fifth, the silver wedding; the fiftieth, the golden wedding; the sixtieth, the diamond wedding. These anniversaries are often celebrated by appropriate presents of wood, tin, china, silver, gold, etc., given by friends.  Note: Wedding is often used adjectively; as, wedding cake, wedding cards, wedding clothes, wedding day, wedding feast, wedding guest, wedding ring, etc. Let her beauty be her wedding dower. Shak. Wedding favor, a marriage favor. See under Marriage. 

WEDER:  Weather. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WEDGE:  A solid of five sides, having a rectangular base, two rectangular or trapezoidal sides meeting in an edge, and two triangular ends.  3. A mass of metal, especially when of a wedgelike form. "Wedges of gold." Shak.  4. Anything in the form of a wedge, as a body of troops drawn up in such a form. In warlike muster they appear, In rhombs, and wedges, and half-moons, and wings. Milton.  5. The person whose name stands lowest on the list of the classical tripos; -- so called after a person (Wedgewood) who occupied this position on the first list of 1828. [Cant, Cambridge Univ., Eng.] C. A. Bristed. Fox wedge. (Mach. & Carpentry) See under Fox.  -- Spherical wedge (Geom.), the portion of a sphere included between two planes which intersect in a diameter. 

WEDGE:  To cut, as clay, into wedgelike masses, and work by dashing together, in order to expel air bubbles, etc. Tomlinson. 

WEDGEBILL:  An Australian crested insessorial bird (Sphenostoma cristatum) having a wedge-shaped bill. Its color is dull brown, like the earth of the plains where it lives.  WEDGE-FORMED Wedge"-formed`, a.  Having the form of a wedge; cuneiform. Wedge-formed characters. See Arrow-headed characters, under Arrowheaded.  WEDGE GAUGE; WEDGE GAGE Wedge gauge or gage .  A wedge with a graduated edge, to measure the width of a space into which it is thrust.  WEDGE GEAR Wedge gear.  A friction gear wheel with wedge-shaped circumferential grooves. -- Wedge gearing.  WEDGE-SHAPED Wedge"-shaped`, a.  1. Having the shape of a wedge; cuneiform.  2. (Bot.)  Broad and truncate at the summit, and tapering down to the base; as, a wedge-shaped leaf.  WEDGE-SHELL Wedge"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of small marine bivalves belonging to Donax and allied genera in which the shell is wedge-shaped.  WEDGE-TAILED Wedge"-tailed", a. (Zoöl.)  Having a tail which has the middle pair of feathers longest, the rest successively and decidedly shorter, and all more or less attenuate; -- said of certain birds. See Illust. of Wood hoopoe, under Wood. Wedge-tailed eagle, an Australian eagle (Aquila audax) which feeds on various small species of kangaroos, and on lambs; -- called also mountain eagle, bold eagle, and eagle hawk.  -- Wedge-tailed gull, an arctic gull (Rhodostethia rosea) in which the plumage is tinged with rose; -- called also Ross's gull. 

WEDGEWISE:  In the manner of a wedge.  WEDGWOOD WARE Wedg"wood` ware`. Etym: [From the name of the inventor, Josiah Wedgwood, of England.]  A kind of fine pottery, the most remarkable being what is called jasper, either white, or colored throughout the body, and capable of being molded into the most delicate forms, so that fine and minute bas-reliefs like cameos were made of it, fit even for being set as jewels. 

WEDGY:  Like a wedge; wedge-shaped. 

WEDLOCK:  To marry; to unite in marriage; to wed. [R.] "Man thus wedlocked." Milton. 

WEDNESDAY:  The fourth day of the week; the next day after Tuesday. Ash Wednesday. See in the Vocabulary. 

WEE:  A little; a bit, as of space, time, or distance. [Obs. or Scot.] 

WEE:  Very small; little. [Colloq. & Scot.] A little wee face, with a little yellow beard. Shak.  WEECH-ELM Weech"-elm`, n. (Bot.)  The wych-elm. [Obs.] Bacon. 

WEED:  A sudden illness or relapse, often attended with fever, which attacks women in childbed. [Scot.] 

WEED:  An animal unfit to breed from.  5. Tobacco, or a cigar. [Slang] Weed hook, a hook used for cutting away or extirpating weeds. Tusser. 

WEED:  To reject as unfit for breeding purposes. 

WEEDER:  One who, or that which, weeds, or frees from anything noxious. 

WEEDERY:  Weeds, collectively; also, a place full of weeds or for growing weeds. [R.] Dr. H. More. 

WEEDING:  a. & n. from Weed, v. Weeding chisel, a tool with a divided chisel-like end, for cutting the roots of large weeds under ground.  -- Weeding forceps, an instrument for taking up some sorts of plants in weeding.  -- Weeding fork, a strong, three-pronged fork, used in clearing ground of weeds; -- called also weeding iron.  -- Weeding hook. Same as Weed hook, under 3d Weed.  -- Weeding iron. See Weeding fork, above.  -- Weeding tongs. Same as Weeding forceps, above.  WEEDING-RHIM Weed"ing-rhim`, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. rim to remove.]  A kind of implement used for tearing up weeds esp. on summer fallows. [Prov. Eng.] 

WEEDLESS:  Free from weeds or noxious matter. 

WEEDY:  Dressed in weeds, or mourning garments. [R. or Colloq.] She was as weedy as in the early days of her mourning. Dickens. 

WEEK:  A period of seven days, usually that reckoned from one Sabbath or Sunday to the next. I fast twice in the week. Luke xviii. 12.  Note: Although it [the week] did not enter into the calendar of the Greeks, and was not introduced at Rome till after the reign of Theodesius, it has been employed from time immemorial in almost all Eastern countries. Encyc. Brit. Feast of Weeks. See Pentecost, 1.  -- Prophetic week, a week of years, or seven years. Dan. ix. 24.  -- Week day. See under Day.  WEEK-END Week"-end", n.  The end of the week; specif., though loosely, the period observed commonly as a holiday, from Saturday noon or Friday night to Monday; as, to visit one for a week-end; also, a house party during a week-end. 

WEEKLY:  A publication issued once in seven days, or appearing once a week. 

WEEKLY:  Once a week; by hebdomadal periods; as, each performs service weekly. 

WEEKWAM:  See Wigwam. [R.] 

WEEL:  Well. [Obs. or Scot.] 

WEEL:  A whirlpool. [Obs.]  WEEL; WEELY Weel, Weel"y,Etym: [Prov. E. weel, weal, a wicker basket to catch eels; prob. akin to willow, and so called as made of willow twigs.]  A kind of trap or snare for fish, made of twigs. [Obs.] Carew. 

WEEN:  To think; to imagine; to fancy. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. Milton. I have lost more than thou wenest. Chaucer. For well I ween, Never before in the bowers of light Had the form of an earthly fay been seen. J. R. Drake. Though never a dream the roses sent Of science or love's compliment, I ween they smelt as sweet. Mrs. Browning. 

WEEP:  The lapwing; the wipe; -- so called from its cry. 

WEEP:  imp. of Weep, for wept. Chaucer. 

WEEPER:  The capuchin. See Capuchin, 3 (a). 

WEEPFUL:  Full of weeping or lamentation; grieving. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

WEEPING:  The act of one who weeps; lamentation with tears; shedding of tears. 

WEEPINGLY:  In a weeping manner.  WEEPING-RIPE Weep"ing-ripe`, a.  Ripe for weeping; ready to weep. [Obs.] Shak.  WEEPING TREE Weep"ing tree.  (a) Any tree having pendulous branches.  (b) A tree from which honeydew or other liquid secretions of insects drip in considerable quantities, esp. one infested by the larvæ of any species of the genus Ptylus, allied to the cuckoo spits, which in tropical countries secrete large quantities of a watery fluid. 

WEERISH:  See Wearish. [Obs.] 

WEESEL:  See Weasel. 

WEET:  Wet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WEET:  To know; to wit. [Obs.] Tyndale. Spenser.  WEET-BIRD Weet"-bird`, n. (Zoöl.)  The wryneck; -- so called from its cry. [Prov. Eng.] 

WEETINGLY:  Knowingly. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WEETLESS:  Unknowing; also, unknown; unmeaning. [Obs.] Spenser.  WEET-WEET Weet"-weet`, n. Etym: [So called from its piping cry when disturbed.] (Zoöl.) (a) The common European sandpiper. (b) The chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.] 

WEETWEET:  A throwing toy, or implement, of the Australian aborigines, consisting of a cigar-shaped stick fastened at one end to a flexible twig. It weighs in all about two ounces, and is about two feet long. 

WEEVER:  Any one of several species of edible marine fishes belonging to the genus Trachinus, of the family Trachinidæ. They have a broad spinose head, with the eyes looking upward. The long dorsal fin is supported by numerous strong, sharp spines which cause painful wounds.  Note: The two British species are the great, or greater, weever (Trachinus draco), which becomes a foot long (called also gowdie, sea cat, stingbull, and weaverfish), and the lesser weever (T. vipera), about half as large (called also otter pike, and stingfish). 

WEEVIL:  Any one of numerous species of snout beetles, or Rhynchophora, in which the head is elongated and usually curved downward. Many of the species are very injurious to cultivated plants. The larvæ of some of the species live in nuts, fruit, and grain by eating out the interior, as the plum weevil, or curculio, the nut weevils, and the grain weevil (see under Plum, Nut, and Grain). The larvæ of other species bore under the bark and into the pith of trees and various other plants, as the pine weevils (see under Pine). See also Pea weevil, Rice weevil, Seed weevil, under Pea, Rice, and Seed. 

WEEVILED:  Infested by weevils; as, weeviled grain. [Written also weevilled.] 

WEEVILY:  Having weevils; weeviled. [Written also weevilly.] 

WEEZEL:  See Weasel. 

WEFT:  imp. & p. p. of Wave. 

WEFT:  A thing waved, waived, or cast away; a waif. [Obs.] "A forlorn weft." Spenser. 

WEFTAGE:  Texture. [Obs.] Grew. 

WEGOTISM:  Excessive use of the pronoun we; -- called also weism. [Colloq. or Cant]  WEHRGELD; WEHRGELT Wehr"geld`, Wehr"gelt`, n. (O. Eng. Law)  See Weregild. 

WEHRWOLF:  See Werewolf.  WEIGELA; WEIGELIA Wei"gel*a, Wei*ge"li*a, n. Etym: [NL. So named after C. E. Weigel, a German naturalist.] (Bot.)  A hardy garden shrub (Diervilla Japonica) belonging to the Honeysuckle family, with withe or red flowers. It was introduced from China. 

WEIGH:  A corruption of Way, used only in the phrase under weigh. An expedition was got under weigh from New York. Thackeray. The Athenians . . . hurried on board and with considerable difficulty got under weigh. Jowett (Thucyd.). 

WEIGH:  A certain quantity estimated by weight; an English measure of weight. See Wey. 

WEIGHABLE:  Capable of being weighed. 

WEIGHAGE:  A duty or toil paid for weighing merchandise. Bouvier. 

WEIGHBEAM:  A kind of large steelyard for weighing merchandise; -- also called weighmaster's beam. 

WEIGHBOARD:  Clay intersecting a vein. Weale. 

WEIGHBRIDGE:  A weighing machine on which loaded carts may be weighed; platform scales. 

WEIGHER:  One who weighs; specifically, an officer whose duty it is to weigh commodities.  WEIGH-HOUSE Weigh"-*house`, n.; pl. Weigh-houses (.  A building at or within which goods, and the like, are weighed. 

WEIGHING:  a. & n. from Weigh, v. Weighing cage, a cage in which small living animals may be conveniently weighed.  -- Weighing house. See Weigh-house.  -- Weighing machine, any large machine or apparatus for weighing; especially, platform scales arranged for weighing heavy bodies, as loaded wagons. 

WEIGHLOCK:  A lock, as on a canal, in which boats are weighed and their tonnage is settled. 

WEIGHMASTER:  One whose business it is to weigh ore, hay, merchandise, etc.; one licensed as a public weigher. 

WEIGHT:  The resistance against which a machine acts, as opposed to the power which moves it. [Obs.] Atomic weight. (Chem.) See under Atomic, and cf. Element.  -- Dead weight, Feather weight, Heavy weight, Light weight, etc. See under Dead, Feather, etc.  -- Weight of observation (Astron. & Physics), a number expressing the most probable relative value of each observation in determining the result of a series of observations of the same kind.  Syn.  -- Ponderousness; gravity; heaviness; pressure; burden; load; importance; power; influence; efficacy; consequence; moment; impressiveness. 

WEIGHT:  To assign a weight to; to express by a number the probable accuracy of, as an observation. See Weight of observations, under Weight. 

WEIGHTILY:  In a weighty manner. 

WEIGHTINESS:  The quality or state of being weighty; weight; force; importance; impressiveness. 

WEIGHTLESS:  Having no weight; imponderable; hence, light. Shak. 

WEIGHTY:  An acute infectious febrile disease, resembling typhoid fever, with muscular pains, disturbance of the digestive organs, jaundice, etc.  WEIR; WEAR Weir, Wear, n. Etym: [OE. wer, AS. wer; akin to G. wehr, AS. werian to defend, protect, hinder, G. wehren, Goth. warjan; and perhaps to E. wary; or cf. Skr. vr to check, hinder. sq. root142. Cf. Garret.]  1. A dam in a river to stop and raise the water, for the purpose of conducting it to a mill, forming a fish pond, or the like.  2. A fence of stakes, brushwood, or the like, set in a stream, tideway, or inlet of the sea, for taking fish.  3. A long notch with a horizontal edge, as in the top of a vertical plate or plank, through which water flows, -- used in measuring the quantity of flowing water. 

WEIRD:  To foretell the fate of; to predict; to destine to. [Scot.] Jamieson. 

WEIRDNESS:  The quality or state of being weird. 

WEISM:  Same as Wegotism. 

WEISMANNISM:  The theories and teachings in regard to heredity propounded by the German biologist August Weismann, esp. in regard to germ plasm as the basis of heredity and the impossibility of transmitting acquired characteristics; -- often called neo-Darwinism.  WEISS BEER Weiss beer. [G. weissbier white beer.]  A light-colored highly effervescent beer made by the top- fermentation process. 

WEIVE:  See Waive. [Obs.] Gower. 

WEKA:  A New Zealand rail (Ocydromus australis) which has wings so short as to be incapable of flight. 

WEKAU:  A small New Zealand owl (Sceloglaux albifacies). It has short wings and long legs, and lives chiefly on the ground. 

WEKEEN:  The meadow pipit. [Prov. Eng.] 

WELAWAY:  Alas! [Obs.] Then welaway, for she undone was clean. Wyatt.  WEL-BEGONE Wel"-be*gone`, a. Etym: [OE. wel-begon. See Well, and Begone.]  Surrounded with happiness or prosperity. [Obs.] Fair and rich and young and wel-begone. Chaucer. 

WELCH:  See Welsh. [R.] 

WELCHER:  See Welsher. 

WELCHMAN:  See Welshman. [R.] 

WELCOME:  To salute with kindness, as a newcomer; to receive and entertain hospitably and cheerfully; as, to welcome a visitor; to welcome a new idea. "I welcome you to land." Addison. Thus we salute thee with our early song, And welcome thee, and wish thee long. Milton. 

WELCOMELY:  In a welcome manner. 

WELCOMENESS:  The quality or state of being welcome; gratefulness; agreeableness; kind reception. 

WELCOMER:  One who welcomes; one who salutes, or receives kindly, a newcomer. Shak. 

WELD:  To wield. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WELD:  An herb (Reseda luteola) related to mignonette, growing in Europe, and to some extent in America; dyer's broom; dyer's rocket; dyer's weed; wild woad. It is used by dyers to give a yellow color. [Written also woald, wold, and would.]  2. Coloring matter or dye extracted from this plant. 

WELD:  The state of being welded; the joint made by welding. Butt weld. See under Butt.  -- Scarf weld, a joint made by overlapping, and welding together, the scarfed ends of two pieces. 

WELDABLE:  Capable of being welded. 

WELDER:  One who welds, or unites pieces of iron, etc., by welding. 

WELDER:  A process for the recovery or regeneration of manganese dioxide in the manufacture of chlorine, by means of milk of lime and the oxygen of the air; -- so called after the inventor.  WELD STEEL Weld steel.  A compound of iron, such as puddled steel, made without complete fusion. 

WELE:  Prosperity; happiness; well-being; weal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WELEFUL:  Producing prosperity or happiness; blessed. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WELEW:  To welk, or wither. [Obs.] 

WELFARE:  Well-doing or well-being in any respect; the enjoyment of health and the common blessings of life; exemption from any evil or calamity; prosperity; happiness. How to study for the people's welfare. Shak. In whose deep eyes Men read the welfare of the times to come. Emerson. 

WELFARING:  Faring well; prosperous; thriving. [Obs.] "A welfaring person." Chaucer. 

WELK:  To wither; to fade; also, to decay; to decline; to wane. [Obs.] When ruddy Phwelk in west. Spenser. The church, that before by insensible degrees welked and impaired, now with large steps went down hill decaying. Milton. 

WELK:  A pustule. See 2d Whelk. 

WELK:  A whelk. [R.] 

WELKED:  See Whelked. 

WELKIN:  The visible regions of the air; the vault of heaven; the sky. On the welkne shoon the sterres lyght. Chaucer. The fair welkin foully overcast. Spenser. When storms the welkin rend. Wordsworth.  Note: Used adjectively by Shakespeare in the phase, "Your welkin eye," with uncertain meaning. 

WELL:  A hole or excavation in the earth, in mining, from which run branches or galleries.  7. (Arch.)  An opening through the floors of a building, as for a staircase or an elevator; a wellhole.  8. (Metal.)  The lower part of a furnace, into which the metal falls. Artesian well, Driven well. See under Artesian, and Driven.  -- Pump well. (Naut.) See Well, 5 (a), above.  -- Well boring, the art or process of boring an artesian well.  -- Well drain. (a) A drain or vent for water, somewhat like a well or pit, serving to discharge the water of wet land. (b) A drain conducting to a well or pit.  -- Well room. (a) A room where a well or spring is situated; especially, one built over a mineral spring. (b) (Naut.) A depression in the bottom of a boat, into which water may run, and whence it is thrown out with a scoop.  -- Well sinker, one who sinks or digs wells.  -- Well sinking, the art or process of sinking or digging wells.  -- Well staircase (Arch.), a staircase having a wellhole (see Wellhole (b)), as distinguished from one which occupies the whole of the space left for it in the floor.  -- Well sweep. Same as Sweep, n., 12.  -- Well water, the water that flows into a well from subterraneous springs; the water drawn from a well. 

WELL:  To issue forth, as water from the earth; to flow; to spring. "[Blood] welled from out the wound." Dryden. "[Yon spring] wells softly forth." Bryant. From his two springs in Gojam's sunny realm, Pure welling out, he through the lucid lake Of fair Dambea rolls his infant streams. Thomson. 

WELL:  To pour forth, as from a well. Spenser. 

WELL:  Safe; as, a chip warranted well at a certain day and place. Burrill.  WE'LL We'll.  Contraction for we will or we shall. "We'll follow them." Shak. 

WELLADAY:  Alas! Welaway! Shak. 

WELLAT:  The king parrakeet See under King.  WELL-BEING Well"-be`ing, n.  The state or condition of being well; welfare; happiness; prosperity; as, virtue is essential to the well-being of men or of society.  WELL-BORN Well"-born`, a.  Born of a noble or respect able family; not of mean birth.  WELL-BRED Well"-bred`, a.  Having good breeding; refined in manners; polite; cultivated. I am as well-bred as the earl's granddaughter. Thackera 

WELLDOER:  One who does well; one who does good to another; a benefactor. 

WELLDOING:  A doing well; right performance of duties. Also used adjectively. 

WELLDRAIN:  To drain, as land; by means of wells, or pits, which receive the water, and from which it is discharged by machinery. 

WELLFARE:  See Welfare. [Obs.]  WELL-FAVORED Well"-fa"vored, a.  Handsome; wellformed; beautiful; pleasing to the eye. Rachel was beautiful and well-favored. Gen. xxix. 17. 

WELLHEAD:  A source, spring, or fountain. At the wellhead the purest streams arise. Spenser. Our public-school and university life is a great wellhead of new and irresponsible words. Earle. 

WELLHOLE:  Correctly informed; provided with information; well furnished with authentic knowledge; intelligent.  WELLINGTON BOOT Wel"ling*ton boot. [After the Duke of Wellington.]  A riding boot for men, the front of which came above the knee; also, a similar shorter boot worn under the trousers. 

WELLINGTONIA:  A name given to the "big trees" (Sequoia gigantea) of California, and still used in England. See Sequoia. 

WELLINGTONS:  A kind of long boots for men.  WELL-INTENTIONED Well`-in*ten"tioned, a.  Having upright intentions or honorable purposes. Dutchmen who had sold themselves to France, as the wellintentioned party. Macaulay.  WELL-KNOWN Well"-known`, a.  Fully known; generally known or acknowledged. A church well known with a well-known rite. M. Arnold.  WELL-LIKING Well"-lik`ing, a.  Being in good condition. [Obs. or Archaic] They also shall bring forth more fruit in their age, and shall be fat and well-liking. Bk. of Com. Prayer (Ps. xcii.).  WELL-MANNERED Well`-man"nered, a.  Polite; well-bred; complaisant; courteous. Dryden.  WELL-MEANER Well"-mean`er, n.  One whose intention is good. "Well-meaners think no harm." Dryden.  WELL-MEANING Well"-mean`ing, a.  Having a good intention.  WELL-NATURED Well`-na"tured, a.  Good-natured; kind. Well-natured, temperate, and wise. Denham.  WELL-NIGH Well"-nigh`, adv.  Almost; nearly. Chaucer.  WELL-PLIGHTED Well"-plight`ed, a.  Being well folded. [Obs.] "Her well-plighted frock." Spenser.  WELL-READ Well"-read`, a.  Of extensive reading; deeply versed; -- often followed by in.  WELL-SEEN Well"-seen`, a.  Having seen much; hence, accomplished; experienced. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. Well-seen in arms and proved in many a fight. Spenser.  WELL-SET Well"-set`, a.  1. Properly or firmly set.  2. Well put together; having symmetry of parts.  WELL-SPED Well"-sped`, a.  Having good success.  WELL-SPOKEN Well"-spo`ken, a. Etym: [Well + speak.]  1. Speaking well; speaking with fitness or grace; speaking kindly. "A knight well-spoken." Shak.  2. Spoken with propriety; as, well-spoken words. 

WELLSPRING:  A fountain; a spring; a source of continual supply. Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it; but the instruction of fools is folly. Prov. xvi. 22.  WELL-WILLER Well"-will`er, n.  One who wishes well, or means kindly. [R.] "A well-willer of yours." Brydges.  WELL-WISH Well"-wish` n.  A wish of happiness. "A well-wish for his friends." Addison. 

WELLWISHER:  One who wishes another well; one who is benevolently or friendlily inclined. 

WELS:  The sheatfish; -- called also waller. 

WELSBACH:  Of or pertaining to Auer von Welsbach or the incandescent gas burner invented by him. -- Welsbach burner, a burner in which the combustion of a mixture of air and gas or vapor is employed to heat to incandescence a mantle composed of thoria and ceria. The mantle is made by soaking a "stocking" in a solution of nitrates of thorium and cerium (approx. 99 : 1), drying, and, for use, igniting to burn the thread and convert the nitrates into oxides, which remain as a fragile ash. The light far exceeds that obtained from the same amount of gas with the ordinary fishtail burner, but has a slight greenish hue. 

WELSH:  Of or pertaining to Wales, or its inhabitants. [Sometimes written also Welch.] Welsh flannel, a fine kind of flannel made from the fleece of the flocks of the Welsh mountains, and largely manufactured by hand.  -- Welsh glaive, or Welsh hook, a weapon of war used in former times by the Welsh, commonly regarded as a kind of poleax. Fairholt. Craig.  -- Welsh mortgage (O. Eng. Law), a species of mortgage, being a conveyance of an estate, redeemable at any time on payment of the principal, with an understanding that the profits in the mean time shall be received by the mortgagee without account, in satisfaction of interest. Burrill.  -- Welsh mutton, a choice and delicate kind of mutton obtained from a breed of small sheep in Wales.  -- Welsh onion (Bot.), a kind of onion (Allium fistulosum) having hollow inflated stalks and leaves, but scarcely any bulb, a native of Siberia. It is said to have been introduced from Germany, and is supposed to have derived its name from the German term wälsch foreign.  -- Welsh parsley, hemp, or halters made from hemp. [Obs. & Jocular] J. Fletcher.  -- Welsh rabbit. See under Rabbit. 

WELSH:  The natives or inhabitants of Wales.  Note: The Welsh call themselves Cymry, in the plural, and a Welshman Cymro, and their country Cymru, of which the adjective is Cymreig, and the name of their language Cymraeg. They are a branch of the Celtic family, and a relic of the earliest known population of England, driven into the mountains of Wales by the Anglo-Saxon invaders. 

WELSHER:  One who cheats at a horse race; one who bets, without a chance of being able to pay; one who receives money to back certain horses and absconds with it. [Written also welcher.] [Slang, Eng.] 

WELSOME:  Prosperous; well. [Obs.] Wyclif.  -- Wel"some*ly, adv. Wyclif. 

WELT:  A narrow border, as of an ordinary, but not extending around the ends. Welt joint, a joint, as of plates, made with a welt, instead of by overlapping the edges. See Weld, n., 1 (d). 

WELT:  To furnish with a welt; to sew or fasten a welt on; as, to welt a boot or a shoe; to welt a sleeve. 

WELT:  To wilt. [R.] 

WELTANSCHAUUNG:  Lit., world view; a conception of the course of events in, and of the purpose of, the world as a whole, forming a philosophical view or apprehension of the universe; the general idea embodied in a cosmology. 

WELTE:  imp. of Weld, to wield. Chaucer. 

WELTER:  To wither; to wilt. [R.] Weltered hearts and blighted . . . memories. I. Taylor. 

WELTER:  Of, pertaining to, or designating, the most heavily weighted race in a meeting; as, a welter race; the welter stakes. 

WELTSCHMERTZ:  Sorrow or sadness over the present or future evils or woes of the world in general; sentimental pessimism. 

WELWITSCHIA:  An African plant (Welwitschia mirabilis) belonging to the order Gnetaceæ. It consists of a short, woody, topshaped stem, and never more than two leaves, which are the cotyledons enormously developed, and at length split into diverging segments. 

WEM:  The abdomen; the uterus; the womb. [Obs.] 

WEM:  Spot; blemish; harm; hurt. [Obs.] Wyclif. Withouten wem of you, through foul and fair. Chaucer. 

WEM:  To stain; to blemish; to harm; to corrupt. [Obs.] 

WEMLESS:  Having no wem, or blemish; spotless. [Obs.] "Virgin wemless." Chaucer. 

WEN:  An indolent, encysted tumor of the skin; especially, a sebaceous cyst. 

WENCH:  To frequent the company of wenches, or women of ill fame. 

WENCHER:  One who wenches; a lewd man. 

WENCHLESS:  Being without a wench. Shak. 

WEND:  p. p. of Wene. Chaucer. 

WEND:  To direct; to betake;- used chiefly in the phrase to wend one's way. Also used reflexively. "Great voyages to wend." Surrey. 

WEND:  A large extent of ground; a perambulation; a circuit. [Obs.] Burrill. 

WENDE:  imp. of Wene. Chaucer.  WENDIC; WENDISH Wend"ic, Wend"ish, a.  Of or pertaining the Wends, or their language. 

WENDIC:  The language of the Wends. 

WENDS:  A Slavic tribe which once occupied the northern and eastern parts of Germany, of which a small remnant exists. 

WENE:  To ween. [Obs.] Chaucer.  WEN-LI Wên"-li`, n. [Chin. wên li.]  The higher literary idiom of Chinese, that of the canonical books and of all composition pretending to literary standing. It employs a classical or academic diction, and a more condensed and sententious style than Mandarin, and differs also in the doubling and arrangement of words.  WENLOCK GROUP Wen"lock group`, (Geol.)  The middle subdivision of the Upper Silurian in Great Britain; -- so named from the typical locality in Shropshire. 

WENNEL:  See Weanel. [Obs.] Tusser.  WENNISH; WENNY Wen"nish, Wen"ny, a. Etym: [From Wen.]  Having the nature of a wen; resembling a wen; as, a wennish excrescence. 

WENONA:  A sand snake (Charina plumbea) of Western North America, of the family Erycidæ. 

WENT:  imp. & p. p. of Wend; -- now obsolete except as the imperfect of go, with which it has no etymological connection. See Go. To the church both be they went. Chaucer. 

WENT:  Course; way; path; journey; direction. [Obs.] "At a turning of a wente." Chaucer. But here my weary team, nigh overspent, Shall breathe itself awhile after so long a went. Spenser. He knew the diverse went of mortal ways. Spenser. 

WENTLETRAP:  Any one of numerous species of elegant, usually white, marine shells of the genus Scalaria, especially Scalaria pretiosa, which was formerly highly valued; -- called also staircase shell. See Scalaria. 

WEP:  imp. of Weep. 

WEPEN:  Weapon. [Obs.] 

WEPT:  imp. & p. p. of Weep. 

WERCHE:  To work. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WERE:  To wear. See 3d Wear. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WERE:  A weir. See Weir. [Obs.] Chaucer. Sir P. Sidney. 

WERE:  To guard; to protect. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WERE:  The imperfect indicative plural, and imperfect subjunctive singular and plural, of the verb be. See Be. 

WEREGILD:  The price of a man's head; a compensation paid of a man killed, partly to the king for the loss of a subject, partly to the lord of a vassal, and partly to the next of kin. It was paid by the murderer. [Written also weregeld, weregelt, etc.] Blackstone. 

WEREWOLF:  A person transformed into a wolf in form and appetite, either temporarily or permanently, whether by supernatural influences, by witchcraft, or voluntarily; a lycanthrope. Belief in werewolves, formerly general, is not now extinct. The werwolf went about his prey. William of Palerne. The brutes that wear our form and face, The werewolves of the human race. Longfellow.  WERK; WERKE Werk, n., Werke, v.  See Work. [Obs.] 

WERN:  To refuse. [Obs.] He is too great a niggard that will wern A man to light a candle at his lantern. Chaucer. 

WERNERIAN:  Of or pertaining to A. G. Werner, The German mineralogist and geologist, who classified minerals according to their external characters, and advocated the theory that the strata of the earth's crust were formed by depositions from water; designating, or according to, Werner's system. 

WERNERITE:  The common grayish or white variety of soapolite. 

WEROOLE:  An Australian lorikeet (Ptilosclera versicolor) noted for the variety of its colors; -- called also varied lorikeet. 

WERRE:  War. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WERREY:  To warray. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WERST:  See Verst. 

WERT:  , The second person singular, indicative and subjunctive moods, imperfect tense, of the verb be. It is formed from were, with the ending -t, after the analogy of wast. Now used only in solemn or poetic style. 

WERT:  A wart. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WERYANGLE:  See Wariangle. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WESAND:  See Weasand. [Obs.] 

WESH:  Washed. Chaucer. 

WESIL:  See Weasand. [Obs.] 

WESLEYAN:  Of or pertaining to Wesley or Wesleyanism. 

WESLEYAN:  One who adopts the principles of Wesleyanism; a Methodist. 

WESLEYANISM:  The system of doctrines and church polity inculcated by John Wesley (b. 1703; d. 1791), the founder of the religious sect called Methodist; Methodism. See Methodist, n., 2. 

WEST:  Lying toward the west; situated at the west, or in a western direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the west, or coming from the west; as, a west course is one toward the west; an east and west line; a west wind blows from the west. This shall be your west border. Num. xxxiv. 6. West end, the fashionable part of London, commencing from the east, at Charing Cross. 

WEST:  Westward. 

WESTERING:  Passing to the west. Toward heaven's descent had sloped his westering wheel. Milton. 

WESTERLY:  Of or pertaining to the west; toward the west; coming from the west; western. 

WESTERLY:  Toward the west; westward. 

WESTERNER:  A native or inhabitant of the west. 

WESTERNMOST:  Situated the farthest towards the west; most western.  WEST INDIA; WEST INDIAN West` In"di*a, West` In"di*an.  Belonging or relating to the West Indies. West India tea (Bot.), a shrubby plant (Capraria biflora) having oblanceolate toothed leaves which are sometimes used in the West Indies as a substitute for tea.  WEST INDIAN West` In"di*an.  A native of, or a dweller in, the West Indies. 

WESTING:  The distance, reckoned toward the west, between the two meridians passing through the extremities of a course, or portion of a ship's path; the departure of a course which lies to the west of north. 

WESTLING:  A westerner. [R.]  WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY West"min`ster As*sem"bly.  See under Assembly. 

WESTMOST:  Lying farthest to the west; westernmost.  WESTWARD; WESTWARDS West"ward, West"wards, adv. Etym: [AS. westweard. See West, and - ward. ]  Toward the west; as, to ride or sail westward. Westward the course of empire takes its way. Berkeley. 

WESTWARD:  Lying toward the west. Yond same star that's westward from the pole. Shak. 

WESTWARD:  The western region or countries; the west. 

WESTWARDLY:  In a westward direction. 

WESTY:  Dizzy; giddy. [Prov. Eng.] 

WET:  Employing, or done by means of, water or some other liquid; as, the wet extraction of copper, in distinction from dry extraction in which dry heat or fusion is employed.  4. Refreshed with liquor; drunk. [Slang] Prior. Wet blanket, Wet dock, etc. See under Blanket, Dock, etc.  -- Wet goods, intoxicating liquors. [Slang]  Syn.  -- Nasty; humid; damp; moist. See Nasty. 

WET:  To fill or moisten with water or other liquid; to sprinkle; to cause to have water or other fluid adherent to the surface; to dip or soak in a liquid; as, to wet a sponge; to wet the hands; to wet cloth. "[The scene] did draw tears from me and wetted my paper." Burke. Ye mists and exhalations, that now rise . . . Whether to deck with clouds the uncolored sky, Or wet the thirsty earth with falling showers. Milton. To wet one's whistle, to moisten one's throat; to drink a dram of liquor. [Colloq.] Let us drink the other cup to wet our whistles. Walton. 

WETBIRD:  The chaffinch, whose cry is thought to foretell rain. [Prov. Eng.]  WET-BULB THERMOMETER Wet-bulb thermometer. (Physics)  That one of the two similar thermometers of a psychrometer the bulb of which is moistened; also, the entire instrument. 

WETHER:  A castrated ram. 

WETNESS:  A nurse who suckles a child, especially the child of another woman. Cf. Dry nurse.  WET PLATE Wet plate. (Photog.)  A plate the film of which retains its sensitiveness only while wet. The film used in such plates is of collodion impregnated with bromides and iodides. Before exposure the plate is immersed in a solution of silver nitrate, and immediately after exposure it is developed and fixed.  WET-SHOD Wet"-shod`, a.  Having the feet, or the shoes on the feet, wet. 

WETTISH:  Somewhat wet; moist; humid. 

WEVIL:  See Weevil. 

WEX:  To grow; to wax. [Obs.] Chaucer. "Each wexing moon." Dryden. 

WEX:  Waxed. Chaucer. 

WEX:  Wax. [Obs.] "Yelwe as wex." Chaucer. 

WEY:  Way; road; path. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WEY:  To weigh. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WEY:  A certain measure of weight. [Eng.] "A weye of Essex cheese." Piers Plowman.  Note: A wey is 6 Simmonds. 

WEYLE:  To wail. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WEYLEWAY:  See Welaway. [Obs.] 

WEYVE:  To waive. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WEZAND:  See Weasand. [Obs.] 

WHACK:  To strike; to beat; to give a heavy or resounding blow to; to thrash; to make with whacks. [Colloq.] Rodsmen were whackingtheir way through willow brakes. G. W. Cable. 

WHACK:  To strike anything with a smart blow. To whack away, to continue striking heavy blows; as, to whack away at a log. [Colloq.] 

WHACK:  A smart resounding blow. [Colloq.] 

WHACKING:  Very large; whapping. [Colloq.] 

WHAHOO:  An American tree, the winged elm. (Ulmus alata). 

WHALA:  To lash with stripes; to wale; to thrash; to drub. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] Halliwell. Bartlett. 

WHALE:  Any aquatic mammal of the order Cetacea, especially any one of the large species, some of which become nearly one hundred feet long. Whales are hunted chiefly for their oil and baleen, or whalebone.  Note: The existing whales are divided into two groups: the toothed whales (Odontocete), including those that have teeth, as the cachalot, or sperm whale (see Sperm whale); and the baleen, or whalebone, whales (Mysticete), comprising those that are destitute of teeth, but have plates of baleen hanging from the upper jaw, as the right whales. The most important species of whalebone whales are the bowhead, or Greenland, whale (see Illust. of Right whale), the Biscay whale, the Antarctic whale, the gray whale (see under Gray), the humpback, the finback, and the rorqual. Whale bird. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of large Antarctic petrels which follow whaling vessels, to feed on the blubber and floating oil; especially, Prion turtur (called also blue petrel), and Pseudoprion desolatus. (b) The turnstone; -- so called because it lives on the carcasses of whales. [Canada] -- Whale fin (Com.), whalebone. Simmonds.  -- Whale fishery, the fishing for, or occupation of taking, whales.  -- Whale louse (Zoöl.), any one of several species of degraded amphipod crustaceans belonging to the genus Cyamus, especially C. ceti. They are parasitic on various cetaceans.  -- Whale's bone, ivory. [Obs.] -- Whale shark. (Zoöl.) (a) The basking, or liver, shark. (b) A very large harmless shark (Rhinodon typicus) native of the Indian Ocean. It sometimes becomes sixty feet long.  -- Whale shot, the name formerly given to spermaceti.  -- Whale's tongue (Zoöl.), a balanoglossus. 

WHALEBACK:  A form of vessel, often with steam power, having sharp ends and a very convex upper deck, much used on the Great Lakes, esp. for carrying grain. 

WHALEBOAT:  A long, narrow boat, sharp at both ends, used by whalemen. 

WHALEBONE:  A firm, elastic substance resembling horn, taken from the upper jaw of the right whale; baleen. It is used as a stiffening in stays, fans, screens, and for various other purposes. See Baleen.  Note: Whalebone is chiefly obtained from the bowhead, or Greenland, whale, the Biscay whale, and the Antarctic, or southern, whale. It is prepared for manufacture by being softened by boiling, and dyed black. 

WHALEMAN:  A man employed in the whale fishery. 

WHALER:  A vessel or person employed in the whale fishery. 

WHALER:  One who whales, or beats; a big, strong fellow; hence, anything of great or unusual size. [Colloq. U. S.] 

WHALING:  The hunting of whales. 

WHALING:  Pertaining to, or employed in, the pursuit of whales; as, a whaling voyage; a whaling vessel. 

WHALL:  A light color of the iris in horses; wall-eye. [Written also whaul.] 

WHALLY:  Having the iris of light color; -- said of horses. "Whally eyes." Spenser. 

WHAME:  A breeze fly. 

WHAMMEL:  To turn over. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHAN:  When. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WHANG:  A leather thong. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] 

WHANG:  To beat. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] 

WHANGDOODLE:  An imaginary creature, of undefined character. [Slang] 

WHANGHEE:  See Wanghee.  WHAP; WHOP Whap, Whop, v. i. Etym: [Cf. OE. quappen to palpitate, E. quob, quaver, wabble, awhape, wap.]  To throw one's self quickly, or by an abrupt motion; to turn suddenly; as, she whapped down on the floor; the fish whapped over. Bartlett.  Note: This word is used adverbially in the north of England, as in the United States, when anything vanishes, or is gone suddenly; as, whap went the cigar out of my mouth.  WHAP; WHOP Whap, Whop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Whapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Whapping.]  To beat or strike.  WHAP; WHOP Whap, Whop, n.  A blow, or quick, smart stroke.  WHAPPER; WHOPPER Whap"per, Whop"per, n. Etym: [See Whap.]  Something uncommonly large of the kind; something astonishing; -- applied especially to a bold lie. [Colloq.]  WHAPPING; WHOPPING Whap"ping, Whop"ping, a.  Very large; monstrous; astonishing; as, a whapping story. [Colloq.] 

WHARF:  The bank of a river, or the shore of the sea. [Obs.] "The fat weed that roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf." Shak. Wharf boat, a kind of boat moored at the bank of a river, and used for a wharf, in places where the height of the water is so variable that a fixed wharf would be useless. [U. S.] Bartlett.  -- Wharf rat. (Zoöl.) (a) The common brown rat. (b) A neglected boy who lives around the wharfs. [Slang] 

WHARFING:  A mode of facing sea walls and embankments with planks driven as piles and secured by ties. Knight. 

WHARFINGER:  A man who owns, or has the care of, a wharf.  WHARL; WHARLING Wharl, Wharl"ing, n.  A guttural pronunciation of the letter r; a burr. See Burr, n., 6. A strange, uncouth wharling in their speech. Fuller. 

WHARP:  A kind of fine sand from the banks of the Trent, used as a polishing powder. [Eng.] 

WHAT:  Something; thing; stuff. [Obs.] And gave him for to feed, Such homely what as serves the simple Spenser. 

WHAT:  Why For what purpose On what account [Obs.] What should I tell the answer of the knight. Chaucer. But what do I stand reckoning upon advantages and gains lost by the misrule and turbulency of the prelates What do I pick up so thriftily their scatterings and diminishings of the meaner subject Milton.  WHATE'ER What*e'er", pron.  A contraction of what-ever; -- used in poetry. "Whate'er is in his way." Shak. 

WHATEVER:  Anything soever which; the thing or things of any kind; being this or that; of one nature or another; one thing or another; anything that may be; all that; the whole that; all particulars that; -- used both substantively and adjectively. Whatever fortune stays from his word. Shak. Whatever Earth, all-bearing mother, yields. Milton. Whatever be its intrinsic value. J. H. Newman.  Note: Whatever often follows a noun, being used elliptically. "There being no room for any physical discovery whatever" [sc. it may be]. Whately. 

WHATNOT:  A kind of stand, or piece of furniture, having shelves for books, ornaments, etc.; an étagère. 

WHATSO:  Whatsoever; whosoever; whatever; anything that. [Obs.] Whatso he were, of high or low estate. Chaucer. Whatso the heaven in his wide vault contains. Spenser.  WHATSOE'ER What`so*e'er", pron.  A contraction of whatsoever; -- used in poetry. Shak. 

WHATSOEVER:  Whatever. "In whatsoever shape he lurk." Milton. Whatsoever God hath said unto thee, do. Gen. xxxi. 16.  Note: The word is sometimes divided by tmesis. "What things soever ye desire." Mark xi. 24. 

WHAUL:  Same as Whall. 

WHAUP:  See Whaap. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHEAL:  A pustule; a whelk. Wiseman. 

WHEAL:  A mine. 

WHEALWORM:  The harvest mite; -- so called from the wheals, caused by its bite. 

WHEAT:  A cereal grass (Triticum vulgare) and its grain, which furnishes a white flour for bread, and, next to rice, is the grain most largely used by the human race.  Note: Of this grain the varieties are numerous, as red wheat, white wheat, bald wheat, bearded wheat, winter wheat, summer wheat, and the like. Wheat is not known to exist as a wild native plant, and all statements as to its origin are either incorrect or at best only guesses. Buck wheat. (Bot.) See Buckwheat.  -- German wheat. (Bot.) See 2d Spelt.  -- Guinea wheat (Bot.), a name for Indian corn.  -- Indian wheat, or Tartary wheat (Bot.), a grain (Fagopyrum Tartaricum) much like buckwheat, but only half as large.  -- Turkey wheat (Bot.), a name for Indian corn.  -- Wheat aphid, or Wheat aphis (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Aphis and allied genera, which suck the sap of growing wheat.  -- Wheat beetle. (Zoöl.) (a) A small, slender, rusty brown beetle (Sylvanus Surinamensis) whose larvæ feed upon wheat, rice, and other grains. (b) A very small, reddish brown, oval beetle (Anobium paniceum) whose larvæ eat the interior of grains of wheat.  -- Wheat duck (Zoöl.), the American widgeon. [Western U. S.] -- Wheat fly. (Zoöl.) Same as Wheat midge, below.  -- Wheat grass (Bot.), a kind of grass (Agropyrum caninum) somewhat resembling wheat. It grows in the northern parts of Europe and America.  -- Wheat jointworm. (Zoöl.) See Jointworm.  -- Wheat louse (Zoöl.), any wheat aphid.  -- Wheat maggot (Zoöl.), the larva of a wheat midge.  -- Wheat midge. (Zoöl.) (a) A small two-winged fly (Diplosis tritici) which is very destructive to growing wheat, both in Europe and America. The female lays her eggs in the flowers of wheat, and the larvæ suck the juice of the young kernels and when full grown change to pupæ in the earth. (b) The Hessian fly. See under Hessian.  -- Wheat moth (Zoöl.), any moth whose larvæ devour the grains of wheat, chiefly after it is harvested; a grain moth. See Angoumois Moth, also Grain moth, under Grain.  -- Wheat thief (Bot.), gromwell; -- so called because it is a troublesome weed in wheat fields. See Gromwell.  -- Wheat thrips (Zoöl.), a small brown thrips (Thrips cerealium) which is very injurious to the grains of growing wheat.  -- Wheat weevil. (Zoöl.) (a) The grain weevil. (b) The rice weevil when found in wheat. 

WHEATBIRD:  A bird that feeds on wheat, especially the chaffinch. 

WHEATEAR:  A small European singing bird (Saxicola oenanthe). The male is white beneath, bluish gray above, with black wings and a black stripe through each eye. The tail is black at the tip and in the middle, but white at the base and on each side. Called also checkbird, chickell, dykehopper, fallow chat, fallow finch, stonechat, and whitetail. 

WHEATEN:  Made of wheat; as, wheaten bread. Cowper.  WHEAT RUST Wheat rust.  A disease of wheat and other grasses caused by the rust fungus Puccinia graminis; also, the fungus itself.  WHEAT SAWFLY Wheat sawfly.  (a) A small European sawfly (Cephus pygmæus) whose larva does great injury to wheat by boring in the stalks.  (b) Any of several small American sawflies of the genus Dolerus, as D. sericeus and D. arvensis, whose larvæ injure the stems or heads of wheat.  (c) Pachynematus extensicornis, whose larvæ feed chiefly on the blades of wheat; -- called also grass sawfly.  WHEATSEL BIRD Wheat"sel bird`. (Zoöl.)  The male of the chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.]  WHEATSTONE'S BRIDGE Wheat"stone's bridge`. (Elec.)  See under Bridge.  WHEATSTONE'S RODS Wheat"stone's rods. (Acoustics)  Flexible rods the period of vibration of which in two planes at right angles are in some exact ratio to one another. When one end of such a rod is fixed, the free end describes in vibrating the corresponding Lissajous figure. So called because devised by Sir Charles Wheatstone. 

WHEATWORM:  A small nematode worm (Anguillula tritici) which attacks the grains of wheat in the ear. It is found in wheat affected with smut, each of the diseased grains containing a large number of the minute young of the worm. 

WHEDER:  Whether. [Obs.] 

WHEEDLE:  To flatter; to coax; to cajole. 

WHEEL:  A firework which, while burning, is caused to revolve on an axis by the reaction of the escaping gases. (f) (Poetry) The burden or refrain of a song.  Note: "This meaning has a low degree of authority, but is supposed from the context in the few cases where the word is found." Nares. You must sing a-down a-down, An you call him a-down-a. O, how the wheel becomes it! Shak.  3. A bicycle or a tricycle; a velocipede.  4. A rolling or revolving body; anything of a circular form; a disk; an orb. Milton.  5. A turn revolution; rotation; compass. According to the common vicissitude and wheel of things, the proud and the insolent, after long trampling upon others, come at length to be trampled upon themselves. South. [He] throws his steep flight in many an aëry wheel. Milton. A wheel within a wheel, or Wheels within wheels, a complication of circumstances, motives, etc.  -- Balance wheel. See in the Vocab.  -- Bevel wheel, Brake wheel, Cam wheel, Fifth wheel, Overshot wheel, Spinning wheel, etc. See under Bevel, Brake, etc.  -- Core wheel. (Mach.) (a) A mortise gear. (b) A wheel having a rim perforated to receive wooden cogs; the skeleton of a mortise gear.  -- Measuring wheel, an odometer, or perambulator.  -- Wheel and axle (Mech.), one of the elementary machines or mechanical powers, consisting of a wheel fixed to an axle, and used for raising great weights, by applying the power to the circumference of the wheel, and attaching the weight, by a rope or chain, to that of the axle. Called also axis in peritrochio, and perpetual lever, -- the principle of equilibrium involved being the same as in the lever, while its action is continuous. See Mechanical powers, under Mechanical.  -- Wheel animal, or Wheel animalcule (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of rotifers having a ciliated disk at the anterior end.  -- Wheel barometer. (Physics) See under Barometer.  -- Wheel boat, a boat with wheels, to be used either on water or upon inclined planes or railways.  -- Wheel bug (Zoöl.), a large North American hemipterous insect (Prionidus cristatus) which sucks the blood of other insects. So named from the curious shape of the prothorax.  -- Wheel carriage, a carriage moving on wheels.  -- Wheel chains, or Wheel ropes (Naut.), the chains or ropes connecting the wheel and rudder.  -- Wheel cutter, a machine for shaping the cogs of gear wheels; a gear cutter.  -- Wheel horse, one of the horses nearest to the wheels, as opposed to a leader, or forward horse; -- called also wheeler.  -- Wheel lathe, a lathe for turning railway-car wheels.  -- Wheel lock. (a) A letter lock. See under Letter. (b) A kind of gunlock in which sparks were struck from a flint, or piece of iron pyrites, by a revolving wheel. (c) A kind of brake a carriage.  -- Wheel ore (Min.), a variety of bournonite so named from the shape of its twin crystals. See Bournonite.  -- Wheel pit (Steam Engine), a pit in the ground, in which the lower part of the fly wheel runs.  -- Wheel plow, or Wheel plough, a plow having one or two wheels attached, to render it more steady, and to regulate the depth of the furrow.  -- Wheel press, a press by which railway-car wheels are forced on, or off, their axles.  -- Wheel race, the place in which a water wheel is set.  -- Wheel rope (Naut.), a tiller rope. See under Tiller.  -- Wheel stitch (Needlework), a stitch resembling a spider's web, worked into the material, and not over an open space. Caulfeild & S. (Dict. of Needlework).  -- Wheel tree (Bot.), a tree (Aspidosperma excelsum) of Guiana, which has a trunk so curiously fluted that a transverse section resembles the hub and spokes of a coarsely made wheel. See Paddlewood.  -- Wheel urchin (Zoöl.), any sea urchin of the genus Rotula having a round, flat shell.  -- Wheel window (Arch.), a circular window having radiating mullions arranged like the spokes of a wheel. Cf. Rose window, under Rose. 

WHEELBAND:  The tire of a wheel. 

WHEELBARROW:  A light vehicle for conveying small loads. It has two handles and one wheel, and is rolled by a single person.  WHEEL BASE Wheel base.  The figure inclosed by lines through the points contact of the wheels of a vehicle, etc., with the surface or rails on which they run; more esp., the length of this figure between the points of contact of the two extreme wheels on either side. 

WHEELBIRD:  The European goatsucker. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHEELED:  Having wheels; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a four- wheeled carriage. 

WHEELER:  A steam vessel propelled by a paddle wheel or by paddle wheels; -- used chiefly in the terms side-wheeler and stern-wheeler.  5. A worker on sewed muslin. [Eng.]  6. (Zoöl.)  The European goatsucker. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHEELMAN:  One who rides a bicycle or tricycle; a cycler, or cyclist.  WHEEL OF FORTUNE Wheel of fortune.  A gambling or lottery device consisting of a wheel which is spun horizontally, articles or sums to which certain marks on its circumference point when it stops being distributed according to varying rules.  WHEEL-SHAPED Wheel"-shaped`, a.  1. Shaped like a wheel.  2. (Bot.)  Expanding into a flat, circular border at top, with scarcely any tube; as, a wheel-shaped corolla. 

WHEELSWARF:  See Swarf. 

WHEELWORK:  A combination of wheels, and their connection, in a machine or mechanism.  WHEEL-WORN Wheel"-worn`, a.  Worn by the action of wheels; as, a wheel-worn road. 

WHEELWRIGHT:  A man whose occupation is to make or repair wheels and wheeled vehicles, as carts, wagons, and the like. 

WHEELY:  Circular; suitable to rotation. 

WHEEN:  A quantity; a goodly number. [Scot.] "A wheen other dogs." Sir W. Scott. 

WHEEZE:  To breathe hard, and with an audible piping or whistling sound, as persons affected with asthma. "Wheezing lungs." Shak. 

WHEEZE:  An ordinary whisper exaggerated so as to produce the hoarse sound known as the "stage whisper." It is a forcible whisper with some admixture of tone. 

WHEEZY:  Breathing with difficulty and with a wheeze; wheezing. Used also figuratively. 

WHEFT:  See Waft, n., 4. 

WHELK:  Any one numerous species of large marine gastropods belonging to Buccinum and allied genera; especially, Buccinum undatum, common on the coasts both of Europe and North America, and much used as food in Europe. Whelk tingle, a dog whelk. See under Dog. 

WHELKED:  Having whelks; whelky; as, whelked horns. Shak. 

WHELP:  One of the longitudinal ribs or ridges on the barrel of a capstan or a windless; -- usually in the plural; as, the whelps of a windlass.  4. One of the teeth of a sprocket wheel. 

WHELP:  To bring forth young; -- said of the female of the dog and some beasts of prey. 

WHELP:  To bring forth, as cubs or young; to give birth to. Unless she had whelped it herself, she could not have loved a thing better. B. Jonson. Did thy foul fancy whelp so black a scheme Young. 

WHENAS:  Whereas; while [Obs.] Whenas, if they would inquire into themselves, they would find no such matter. Barrow. 

WHENCEEVER:  Whencesoever. [R.] 

WHENCEFORTH:  From, or forth from, what or which place; whence. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WHENCESOEVER:  From what place soever; from what cause or source soever. Any idea, whencesoever we have it. Locke.  WHENE'ER When*e'er, adv. & conj.  Whenever. 

WHENEVER:  At whatever time. "Whenever that shall be." Milton. 

WHENNES:  Whence. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WHENSOEVER:  At what time soever; at whatever time; whenever. Mark xiv. 7.  WHER; WHERE Wher, Where (, pron. & conj. Etym: [See Whether.]  Whether. [Sometimes written whe'r.] [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Men must enquire (this is mine assent), Wher she be wise or sober or dronkelewe. Chaucer. 

WHERE:  Whereas. And flight and die is death destroying death; Where fearing dying pays death servile breath. Shak. 

WHERE:  Place; situation. [Obs. or Colloq.] Finding the nymph asleep in secret where. Spenser.  WHEREABOUT; WHEREABOUTS Where"a*bout`, Where"a*bouts`, adv.  1. About where; near what or which place; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as, whereabouts did you meet him  Note: In this sense, whereabouts is the common form.  2. Concerning which; about which. "The object whereabout they are conversant." Hooker.  WHEREABOUT; WHEREABOUTS Where"a*bout`, Where"a*bouts`, n.  The place where a person or thing is; as, they did not know his whereabouts. Shak. A puzzling notice of thy whereabout. Wordsworth. 

WHEREAS:  At which place; where. [Obs.] Chaucer. At last they came whereas that lady bode. Spenser. 

WHEREBY:  Wherever; -- a contracted and poetical form. Cowper. 

WHEREFORE:  the reason why. [Colloq.] 

WHEREFORM:  From which; from which or what place. Tennyson. 

WHERENESS:  The quality or state of having a place; ubiety; situation; position. [R.] A point hath no dimensions, but only a whereness, and is next to nothing. Grew. 

WHEREOUT:  Out of which. [R.] The cleft whereout the lightning breaketh. Holland. 

WHERESO:  Wheresoever. [Obs.]  WHERESOE'ER Where`so*e'er", adv.  Wheresoever. [Poetic] "Wheresoe'er they rove." Milton. 

WHERESOEVER:  In what place soever; in whatever place; wherever. 

WHERETHROUGH:  Through which. [R.] "Wherethrough that I may know." Chaucer. Windows . . . wherethrough the sun Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee. Shak. 

WHEREUNTO:  Same as Whereto. 

WHEREUPON:  Upon which; in consequence of which; after which. The townsmen mutinied and sent to Essex; whereupon he came thither. Clarendon. 

WHEREVER:  At or in whatever place; wheresoever. He can not but love virtue wherever it is. Atterbury. 

WHEREWITH:  The necessary means or instrument. So shall I have wherewith to answer him. Ps. cxix. 42. The wherewith to meet excessive loss by radiation. H. Spencer. 

WHEREWITHAL:  Wherewith. "Wherewithal shall we be clothed" Matt. vi. 31. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way Ps. cxix. 9. [The builders of Babel], still with vain design, New Babels, had they wherewithal, would build. Milton. 

WHERRET:  A box on the ear. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

WHERRY:  A liquor made from the pulp of crab apples after the verjuice is expressed; -- sometimes called crab wherry. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 

WHERSO:  Wheresoever. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WHETHER:  Which (of two); which one (of two); -- used interrogatively and relatively. [Archaic] Now choose yourself whether that you liketh. Chaucer. One day in doubt I cast for to compare Whether in beauties' glory did exceed. Spenser. Whether of them twain did the will of his father Matt. xxi. 31. 

WHETHER:  In case; if; -- used to introduce the first or two or more alternative clauses, the other or others being connected by or, or by or whether. When the second of two alternatives is the simple negative of the first it is sometimes only indicated by the particle not or no after the correlative, and sometimes it is omitted entirely as being distinctly implied in the whether of the first. And now who knows But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours Shak. You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the forest judge. Shak. For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die, we die unto the Lord; whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's. Rom. xiv. 8. But whether thus these things, or whether not; Whether the sun, predominant in heaven, Rise on the earth, or earth rise on the sun, . . . Solicit not thy thoughts with matters hid. Milton. Whether or no, in either case; in any case; as, I will go whether or no.  -- Whether that, whether. Shak. 

WHETHERING:  The retention of the afterbirth in cows. Gardner. 

WHETILE:  The green woodpecker, or yaffle. See Yaffle. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHETSTONE:  A piece of stone, natural or artificial, used for whetting, or sharpening, edge tools. The dullness of the fools is the whetstone of the wits. Shak. Diligence is to the understanding as the whetstone to the razor. South.  Note: Some whetstones are used dry, others are moistened with water, or lubricated with oil. To give the whetstone, to give a premium for extravagance in falsehood. [Obs.] 

WHETTLEBONES:  The vertebræ of the back. [Prov. Eng.] Dunglison. 

WHEW:  A sound like a half-formed whistle, expressing astonishment, scorn, or dislike. Whew duck, the European widgeon. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHEW:  To whistle with a shrill pipe, like a plover. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

WHEWELLITE:  Calcium oxalate, occurring in colorless or white monoclinic crystals. 

WHEWER:  The European widgeon. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHEY:  The serum, or watery part, of milk, separated from the more thick or coagulable part, esp. in the process of making cheese. In this process, the thick part is called curd, and the thin part whey.  WHEY CURE Whey cure.  Treatment with whey as a drink and in baths. 

WHEYEY:  Of the nature of, or containing, whey; resembling whey; wheyish. Bacon. 

WHEYFACE:  One who is pale, as from fear.  WHEY-FACED Whey"-faced`, a.  Having a pale or white face, as from fright. "Whey-faced cavaliers." Aytoun. 

WHEYISH:  Somewhat like whey; wheyey. J. Philips.  -- Whey"ish*ness, n. 

WHICH:  Whether one or another; whether one or the other; which; that one (of two or more) which; as, whichever road you take, it will lead you to town.  WHIDAH BIRD Whid"ah bird`, (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of finchlike birds belonging to the genus Vidua, native of Asia and Africa. In the breeding season the male has very long, drooping tail feathers. Called also vida finch, whidah finch, whydah bird, whydah finch, widow bird, and widow finch.  Note: Some of the species are often kept as cage birds, especially Vidua paradisea, which is dark brownish above, pale buff beneath, with a reddish collar around the neck. 

WHIDER:  Whither. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WHIFF:  The marysole, or sail fluke. 

WHIFF:  To emit whiffs, as of smoke; to puff. 

WHIFFET:  A little whiff or puff. 

WHIFFLE:  A fife or small flute. [Obs.] Douce. 

WHIFFLER:  The golden-eye. [Local, U.S.] 

WHIFFLETREE:  Same as Whippletree. 

WHIG:  Acidulated whey, sometimes mixed with buttermilk and sweet herbs, used as a cooling beverage. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

WHIG:  One of a political party which grew up in England in the seventeenth century, in the reigns of Charles I. and II., when great contests existed respecting the royal prerogatives and the rights of the people. Those who supported the king in his high claims were called Tories, and the advocates of popular rights, of parliamentary power over the crown, and of toleration to Dissenters, were, after 1679, called Whigs. The terms Liberal and Radical have now generally superseded Whig in English politics. See the note under Tory.  2. (Amer. Hist.) (a) A friend and supporter of the American Revolution; -- opposed to Tory, and Royalist. (b) One of the political party in the United States from about 1829 to 1856, opposed in politics to the Democratic party. 

WHIG:  Of or pertaining to the Whigs. 

WHIGGAMORE:  A Whig; -- a cant term applied in contempt to Scotch Presbyterians. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

WHIGGARCHY:  Government by Whigs. [Cont] Swift. 

WHIGGERY:  The principles or practices of the Whigs; Whiggism. 

WHIGGISH:  Of or pertaining to Whigs; partaking of, or characterized by, the principles of Whigs. 

WHIGGISHLY:  In a Whiggish manner. 

WHIGGISM:  The principles of the Whigs. 

WHIGLING:  A petty or inferior Whig; -- used in contempt. Spectator. 

WHILE:  To cause to pass away pleasantly or without irksomeness or disgust; to spend or pass; -- usually followed by away. The lovely lady whiled the hours away. Longfellow. 

WHILE:  To loiter. [R.] Spectator. 

WHILE:  Until; till. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] I may be conveyed into your chamber; I'll lie under your bed while midnight. Beau. & Fl. 

WHILERE:  A little while ago; recently; just now; erewhile. [Obs.] Helpeth me now as I did you whilere. Chaucer. He who, with all heaven's heraldry, whilere Entered the world. Milton. 

WHILES:  During the time that; while. [Archaic] Chaucer. Fuller. Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him. Matt. v. 25. 

WHILK:  A kind of mollusk, a whelk. [Prov. Eng.]  2. (Zoöl.)  The scoter. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHILK:  Which. [Obs. or Scot.]  Note: Whilk is sometimes used in Chaucer to represent the Northern dialect. 

WHILOM:  Formerly; once; of old; erewhile; at times. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser. Whilom, as olde stories tellen us, There was a duke that highte Theseus. Chaucer. 

WHILST:  While. [Archaic] Whilst the emperor lay at Antioch. Gibbon. The whilst, in the meantime; while. [Archaic.] Shak. 

WHIM:  The European widgeon. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHIM:  A large capstan or vertical drum turned by horse power or steam power, for raising ore or water, etc., from mines, or for other purposes; -- called also whim gin, and whimsey. Whim gin (Mining), a whim. See Whim, 2.  -- Whim shaft (Mining), a shaft through which ore, water, etc., is raised from a mine by means of a whim.  Syn.  -- Freak; caprice; whimsey; fancy.  -- Whim, Freak, Caprice. Freak denotes an impulsive, inconsiderate change of mind, as by a child or a lunatic. Whim is a mental eccentricity due to peculiar processes or habits of thought. Caprice is closely allied in meaning to freak, but implies more definitely a quality of willfulness or wantonness. 

WHIM:  To be subject to, or indulge in, whims; to be whimsical, giddy, or freakish. [R.] Congreve. 

WHIMBREL:  Any one of several species of small curlews, especially the European species (Numenius phæopus), called also Jack curlew, half curlew, stone curlew, and tang whaup. See Illustration in Appendix. Hudsonian or, Eskimo, whimbreal, the Hudsonian curlew. 

WHIMLING:  One given to whims; hence, a weak, childish person; a child. Go, whimling, and fetch two or three grating loaves. Beau. & Fl. 

WHIMMY:  Full of whims; whimsical. The study of Rabbinical literature either finds a man whimmy or makes him so. Coleridge. 

WHIMPER:  To cry with a low, whining, broken voice; to whine; to complain; as, a child whimpers. Was there ever yet preacher but there were gainsayers that spurned, that winced, that whimpered against him Latimer. 

WHIMPER:  To utter in alow, whining tone. 

WHIMPER:  A low, whining, broken cry; a low, whining sound, expressive of complaint or grief. 

WHIMPERER:  One who whimpers. 

WHIMPLE:  See Wimple. 

WHIMPLE:  To whiffle; to veer.  WHIMSEY; WHIMSY Whim"sey, Whimsy, n.; pl. Whimseys or Whimsies. Etym: [See Whim.]  1. A whim; a freak; a capricious notion, a fanciful or odd conceit. "The whimsies of poets and painters." Ray. Men's folly, whimsies, and inconstancy. Swift. Mistaking the whimseys of a feverish brain for the calm revelation of truth. Bancroft.  2. (Mining)  A whim. 

WHIMSEY:  To fill with whimseys, or whims; to make fantastic; to craze. [R.] To have a man's brain whimsied with his wealth. J. Fletcher. 

WHIMSICALITY:  The quality or state of being whimsical; whimsicalness. 

WHIMSICALLY:  In a whimsical manner; freakishly. 

WHIMSICALNESS:  The quality or state of being whimsical; freakishness; whimsical disposition. 

WHIMSY:  A whimsey. 

WHINBERRY:  The English bilberry; -- so called because it grows on moors among the whins, or furze. Dr. Prior. 

WHINCHAT:  A small warbler (Pratincola rubetra) common in Europe; -- called also whinchacker, whincheck, whin-clocharet. 

WHINE:  To utter a plaintive cry, as some animals; to mean with a childish noise; to complain, or to tell of sorrow, distress, or the like, in a plaintive, nasal tone; hence, to complain or to beg in a mean, unmanly way; to moan basely. "Whining plovers." Spenser. The hounds were . . . staying their coming, but with a whining accent, craving liberty. Sir P. Sidney. Dost thou come here to whine Shak. 

WHINE:  To utter or express plaintively, or in a mean, unmanly way; as, to whine out an excuse. 

WHINE:  A plaintive tone; the nasal, childish tone of mean complaint; mean or affected complaint. 

WHINER:  One who, or that which, whines. 

WHINGE:  To whine. [Scot.] Burns. 

WHINGER:  A kind of hanger or sword used as a knife at meals and as a weapon. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] The chief acknowledged that he had corrected her with his whinger. Sir W. Scott. 

WHININGLY:  In a whining manner; in a tone of mean complaint. 

WHINNER:  To whinny. [Colloq.] 

WHINNY:  To utter the ordinary call or cry of a horse; to neigh. 

WHINNY:  The ordinary cry or call of a horse; a neigh. "The stately horse . . . stooped with a low whinny." Tennyson. 

WHINNY:  Abounding in whin, gorse, or furze. A fine, large, whinny, . . . unimproved common. Sterne. 

WHINOCK:  The small pig of a litter. [Local, U. S.] 

WHINSTONE:  A provincial name given in England to basaltic rocks, and applied by miners to other kind of dark-colored unstratified rocks which resist the point of the pick.  -- for example, to masses of chert. Whin-dikes, and whin-sills, are names sometimes given to veins or beds of basalt. 

WHIP:  To move nimbly; to start or turn suddenly and do something; to whisk; as, he whipped around the corner. With speed from thence he whipped. Sackville. Two friends, traveling, met a bear upon the way; the one whips up a tree, and the other throws himself flat upon the ground. L'Estrange. 

WHIPCORD:  A kind of hard-twisted or braided cord, sometimes used for making whiplashes. 

WHIPGRAFT:  To graft by cutting the scion and stock in a certain manner. See Whip grafting, under Grafting. 

WHIPLASH:  The lash of a whip, -- usually made of thongs of leather, or of cords, braided or twisted. 

WHIPPER:  A kind of simple willow. 

WHIPPERSNAPPER:  A diminutive, insignificant, or presumptuous person. [Colloq.] "Little whippersnappers like you." T. Hughes. 

WHIPPING:  a & n. from Whip, v. Whipping post, a post to which offenders are tied, to be legally whipped. 

WHIPPLETREE:  The cornel tree. Chaucer.  WHIP-POOR-WILL Whip"-poor-will`, n. (Zoöl.)  An American bird (Antrostomus vociferus) allied to the nighthawk and goatsucker; -- so called in imitation of the peculiar notes which it utters in the evening. [Written also whippowil.] 

WHIPSAW:  A saw for dividing timber lengthwise, usually set in a frame, and worked by two persons; also, a fret saw.  WHIP-SHAPED Whip"-shaped`, a.  Shaped like the lash of a whip; long, slender, round, and tapering; as, a whip-shaped root or stem. 

WHIPSTAFF:  A bar attached to the tiller, for convenience in steering. 

WHIPSTALK:  A whipstock. 

WHIPSTER:  A nimble little fellow; a whippersnapper. Every puny whipster gets my sword. Shak. 

WHIPSTICK:  Whip handle; whipstock. 

WHIPSTITCH:  The act or process of whipstitching. 

WHIPSTITCH:  To rafter; to plow in ridges, as land. [Eng.] 

WHIPSTOCK:  The rod or handle to which the lash of a whip is fastened. 

WHIPT:  Whipped.  WHIP-TOM-KELLY Whip"-tom`-kel"ly, n. Etym: [So called in imitation of its notes.] (Zoöl.)  A vireo (Vireo altiloquus) native of the West Indies and Florida; -- called also black-whiskered vireo. 

WHIPWORM:  A nematode worm (Trichocephalus dispar) often found parasitic in the human intestine. Its body is thickened posteriorly, but is very long and threadlike anteriorly. 

WHIR:  To whirl round, or revolve, with a whizzing noise; to fly or more quickly with a buzzing or whizzing sound; to whiz. The partridge bursts away on whirring wings. Beattie. 

WHIR:  To hurry a long with a whizzing sound. [R.] This world to me is like a lasting storm, Whirring me from my friends. Shak. 

WHIR:  A buzzing or whizzing sound produced by rapid or whirling motion; as, the whir of a partridge; the whir of a spinning wheel. 

WHIRL:  A whorl. See Whorl. 

WHIRLABOUT:  Something that whirls or turns about in a rapid manner; a whirligig. 

WHIRLBAT:  Anything moved with a whirl, as preparatory for a blow, or to augment the force of it; -- applied by poets to the cestus of ancient boxers. The whirlbat and the rapid race shall be Reserved for Cæsar. Dryden.  WHIRL-BLAST Whirl"-blast`, n.  A whirling blast or wind. A whirl-blast from behind the hill. Wordsworth. 

WHIRLER:  One who, or that which, whirls. 

WHIRLICOTE:  An open car or chariot. [Obs.] Of old time coaches were not known in this island, but chariots, or whirlicotes. Stow. 

WHIRLIGIG:  Any one of numerous species of beetles belonging to Gyrinus and allied genera. The body is firm, oval or boatlike in form, and usually dark colored with a bronzelike luster. These beetles live mostly on the surface of water, and move about with great celerity in a gyrating, or circular, manner, but they are also able to dive and swim rapidly. The larva is aquatic. Called also weaver, whirlwig, and whirlwig beetle. 

WHIRLING:  a. & n. from Whirl, v. t. Whirling table. (a) (Physics) An apparatus provided with one or more revolving disks, with weights, pulleys, and other attachments, for illustrating the phenomena and laws of centrifugal force, and the like. (b) A potter's wheel. 

WHIRLPIT:  A whirlpool. [Obs.] "Raging whirlpits." Sandys. 

WHIRLWIG:  A whirligig. 

WHIRRY:  To whir. [Obs.] 

WHIRTLE:  A perforated steel die through which wires or tubes are drawn to form them. 

WHISK:  A game at cards; whist. [Obs.] Taylor (1630). 

WHISK:  To move nimbly at with velocity; to make a sudden agile movement. 

WHISKER:  That part of the beard which grows upon the sides of the face, or upon the chin, or upon both; as, side whiskers; chin whiskers.  4. A hair of the beard.  5. One of the long, projecting hairs growing at the sides of the mouth of a cat, or other animal.  6. pl. (Naut.)  Iron rods extending on either side of the bowsprit, to spread, or guy out, the stays, etc. 

WHISKERED:  Having elongated hairs, feathers, or bristles on the cheeks. The whiskered vermin race. Grainger. 

WHISKERLESS:  Being without whiskers. 

WHISKET:  A small lathe for turning wooden pins. 

WHISKEY:  Same as Whisky, a liquor.  WHISKEY; WHISKY Whis"key, Whis"ky, n.; pl. Whiskeys or Whiskies. Etym: [See Whisk, v. t. & n.]  A light carriage built for rapid motion; -- called also tim- whiskey. 

WHISKIN:  A shallow drinking bowl. [Prov. Eng.] Ray. 

WHISKING:  An intoxicating liquor distilled from grain, potatoes, etc., especially in Scotland, Ireland, and the United States. In the United States, whisky is generally distilled from maize, rye, or wheat, but in Scotland and Ireland it is often made from malted barley. Bourbon whisky, corn whisky made in Bourbon County, Kentucky.  -- Crooked whisky. See under Crooked.  -- Whisky Jack (Zoöl.), the Canada jay (Perisoreus Canadensis). It is noted for its fearless and familiar habits when it frequents the camps of lumbermen in the winter season. Its color is dull grayish blue, lighter beneath. Called also moose bird.  WHISKYFIED; WHISKEYFIED Whis"ky*fied, Whis"key*fied, a. Etym: [Whisky + -fy.]  Drunk with whisky; intoxicated. [Humorous] Thackeray.  WHISKY RING; WHISKEY RING Whisky, or Whiskey, Ring . (U. S. Hist.)  A conspiracy of distillers and government officials during the administration of President Grant to defraud the government of the excise taxes. The frauds were detected in 1875 through the efforts of the Secretary of the Treasury. B. H. Bristow, and most of the offenders were convicted. 

WHISP:  See Wisp. 

WHISP:  A flock of snipe. 

WHISPERING:  a. & n. from Whisper. v. t. Whispering gallery, or Whispering dome, one of such a form that sounds produced in certain parts of it are concentrated by reflection from the walls to another part, so that whispers or feeble sounds are audible at a much greater distance than under ordinary circumstances. 

WHISPERINGLY:  In a whisper, or low voice; in a whispering manner; with whispers. Tennyson. 

WHISPEROUSLY:  Whisperingly. [R.] 

WHIST:  Be silent; be still; hush; silence. 

WHIST:  A certain game at cards; -- so called because it requires silence and close attention. It is played by four persons (those who sit opposite each other being partners) with a complete pack of fifty-two cards. Each player has thirteen cards, and when these are played out, he hand is finished, and the cards are again shuffled and distributed.  Note: Points are scored for the tricks taken in excess of six, and for the honors held. In long whist, now seldom played, ten points make the game; in short whist, now usually played in England, five points make the game. In American whist, so-called, honors are not counted, and seven points by tricks make the game. 

WHIST:  To hush or silence. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WHIST:  To be or become silent or still; to be hushed or mute. [R.] Surrey. 

WHIST:  Not speaking; not making a noise; silent; mute; still; quiet. "So whist and dead a silence." Sir J. Harrington. The winds, with wonder whist, Smoothly the waters kissed. Milton.  Note: This adjective generally follows its noun, or is used predicatively. 

WHISTLEFISH:  A gossat, or rockling; -- called also whistler, three-bearded rockling, sea loach, and sorghe. 

WHISTLER:  The hoary, or northern, marmot (Arctomys pruinosus).  4. (Zoöl.)  The whistlefish. 

WHISTLEWING:  The American golden-eye. 

WHISTLEWOOD:  The moosewood, or striped maple. See Maple. 

WHISTLING:  a. & n. from Whistle, v. Whistling buoy. (Naut.) See under Buoy.  -- Whistling coot (Zoöl.), the American black scoter.  -- Whistling Dick. (Zoöl.) (a) An Australian shrike thrush (Colluricincla Selbii). (b) The song thrush. [Prov. Eng.] -- Whistling duck. (Zoöl.) (a) The golden-eye. (b) A tree duck.  -- Whistling eagle (Zoöl.), a small Australian eagle (Haliastur sphenurus); -- called also whistling hawk, and little swamp eagle.  -- Whistling plover. (Zoöl.) (a) The golden plover. (b) The black- bellied, or gray, plover.  -- Whistling snipe (Zoöl.), the American woodcock.  -- Whistling swan. (Zoöl.) (a) The European whooper swan; -- called also wild swan, and elk. (b) An American swan (Olor columbianus). See under Swan.  -- Whistling teal (Zoöl.), a tree duck, as Dendrocygna awsuree of India.  -- Whistling thrush. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of singing birds of the genus Myiophonus, native of Asia, Australia, and the East Indies. They are generally black, glossed with blue, and have a patch of bright blue on each shoulder. Their note is a loud and clear whistle. (b) The song thrush. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHISTLINGLY:  In a whistling manner; shrilly. 

WHISTLY:  In a whist manner; silently. [Obs.] 

WHIT:  The smallest part or particle imaginable; a bit; a jot; an iota; -- generally used in an adverbial phrase in a negative sentence. "Samuel told him every whit." 1 Sam. iii. 18. "Every whit as great." South. So shall I no whit be behind in duty. Shak. It does not me a whit displease. Cowley. 

WHITE:  Any one of numerous species of butterflies belonging to Pieris, and allied genera in which the color is usually white. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage. Black and white. See under Black.  -- Flake white, Paris white, etc. See under Flack, Paris, etc.  -- White of a seed (Bot.), the albumen. See Albumen, 2.  -- White of egg, the viscous pellucid fluid which surrounds the yolk in an egg, particularly in the egg of a fowl. In a hen's egg it is alkaline, and contains about 86 per cent of water and 14 per cent of solid matter, the greater portion of which is egg albumin. It likewise contains a small amount of globulin, and traces of fats and sugar, with some inorganic matter. Heated above 60º C. it coagulates to a solid mass, owing to the albumin which it contains. Parr.  -- White of the eye (Anat.), the white part of the ball of the eye surrounding the transparent cornea. 

WHITE:  To make white; to whiten; to whitewash; to bleach. Whited sepulchers, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of . . . uncleanness. Matt. xxiii. 27. So as no fuller on earth can white them. Mark. ix. 3. 

WHITEBACK:  The canvasback. 

WHITEBEAM:  The common beam tree of England (Pyrus Aria); -- so called from the white, woolly under surface of the leaves. 

WHITEBEARD:  An old man; a graybeard. 

WHITEBILL:  The American coot.  WHITE-BLAZE White"-blaze`, n.  See White-face. 

WHITEBLOW:  Same as Whitlow grass, under Whitlow. 

WHITEBOYISM:  The conduct or principle of the Whiteboys. 

WHITECOAT:  The skin of a newborn seal; also, the seal itself. [Sealers' Cant]  WHITE-EAR White"-ear`, n. (Zoöl.)  The wheatear.  WHITE ELEPHANT White elephant.  Something requiring much care and expense and yielding little profit; any burdensome possession. [Slang]  WHITE-EYE White"-eye`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of small Old World singing of the genus Zosterops, as Zosterops palpebrosus of India, and Z. coerulescens of Australia. The eyes are encircled by a ring of white feathers, whence the name. Called also bush creeper, and white-eyed tit.  WHITE-FACE White"-face`, n.  A white mark in the forehead of a horse, descending almost to the nose; -- called also white-blaze. 

WHITEFLAW:  A whitlow. [Obs.] Holland.  WHITE FLY White fly.  Any one of numerous small injurious hemipterous insects of the genus Aleyrodes, allied to scale insects. They are usually covered with a white or gray powder.  WHITE-FOOT White"-foot`, n. (Far.)  A white mark on the foot of a horse, between the fetlock and the coffin.  WHITE FRIAR White" fri`ar. (Eccl.)  A mendicant monk of the Carmelite order, so called from the white cloaks worn by the order. See Carmelite.  WHITE-FRONTED White`-front"ed, a.  Having a white front; as, the white-fronted lemur. White- fronted goose (Zoöl.), the white brant, or snow goose. See Snow goose, under Snow. 

WHITEHEAD:  A form of self-propelling torpedo.  WHITE-HEART White"-heart`, n. (Bot.)  A somewhat heart-shaped cherry with a whitish skin.  WHITE HORSE White horse.  A large mass of tough sinewy substance in the head of sperm whales, just above the upper jaw and extending in streaks into the junk above it. It resembles blubber, but contains no oil. Also, the part of the head in which it occurs.  WHITE-HOT White"-hot`, a.  White with heat; heated to whiteness, or incandescence.  WHITE-LIMED White"-limed`, a.  Whitewashed or plastered with lime. "White-limed walls." Shak.  WHITE LIST White list.  (a) A list of business concerns regarded as worthy of patronage by reason of compliance with certain conditions, as in regard to treatment of employees; as, the white list of the Consumers' League. [Cant]  (b) (New York Stock Exchange) The official list of all transactions, published daily on white paper, divided into sales from 10 to 12, 12 to 2, and 2 to 3.  WHITE-LIVERED White"-liv`ered, a.  Having a pale look; feeble; hence, cowardly; pusillanimous; dastardly. They must not be milksops, nor white-livered knights. Latimer. 

WHITELY:  Like, or coming near to, white. [Obs.]  WHITE MUSTARD White mustard.  A kind of mustard (Sinapis alba) with rough-hairy foliage, a long-beaked hispid pod, and pale seeds, which yield mustard and mustard oil. The plant is also grown for forage. 

WHITEN:  To grow white; to turn or become white or whiter; as, the hair whitens with age; the sea whitens with foam; the trees in spring whiten with blossoms. 

WHITEN:  To make white; to bleach; to blanch; to whitewash; as, to whiten a wall; to whiten cloth. The broad stream of the Foyle then whitened by vast flocks of wild swans. Macaulay.  Syn.  -- See Blanch. 

WHITENER:  One who, or that which, whitens; a bleacher; a blancher; a whitewasher. 

WHITENESS:  A flock of swans. 

WHITENING:  A person of the Caucasian race (6 Fed. Rep. 256). In the time of slavery in the United States white person was generally construed as a person without admixture of colored blood. In various statutes and decisions in different States since 1865 white person is construed as in effect: one not having any negro blood (Ark., Okla.); one having less than one eighth of negro blood (Ala., Fla., Ga., Ind., Ky., Md., Minn., Miss., Mo., N.C., S.C., Tenn., Tex.); one having less than one fourth (Mich., Neb., Ore., Va.); one having less than one half (Ohio).  WHITE PLAGUE White plague.  Tuberculosis, esp. of the lungs.  WHITE-POT White"-pot`, n.  A kind of food made of milk or cream, eggs, sugar, bread, etc., baked in a pot. King. 

WHITERUMP:  The American black-tailed godwit. 

WHITES:  Leucorrh  2. The finest flour made from white wheat.  3. Cloth or garments of a plain white color. 

WHITESIDE:  The golden-eye.  WHITE SLAVE White slave.  A woman held in involuntary confinement for purposes of prostitution; loosely, any woman forced into unwilling prostitution.  WHITE SLAVER White slaver.  A person engaged in procuring or holding a woman or women for unwilling prostitution.  WHITE SLAVING White slaving.  The action of one who procures or holds a woman or women for unwilling prostitution. 

WHITESTER:  A bleacher of lines; a whitener; a whitster. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHITETAIL:  The Virginia deer.  2. (Zoöl.)  The wheatear. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHITETHORN:  The hawthorn. 

WHITETHROAT:  Any one of several species of Old World warblers, esp. the common European species (Sylvia cinerea), called also strawsmear, nettlebird, muff, and whitecap, the garden whitethroat, or golden warbler (S. hortensis), and the lesser whitethroat (S. curruca). 

WHITETOP:  Fiorin. 

WHITEWALL:  The spotted flycatcher; -- so called from the white color of the under parts. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHITEWASHER:  One who whitewashes.  WHITE-WATER White"-wa`ter, n. (Far.)  A dangerous disease of sheep. 

WHITEWEED:  A perennial composite herb (Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum) with conspicuous white rays and a yellow disk, a common weed in grass lands and pastures; -- called also oxeye daisy. 

WHITEWOOD:  The soft and easily-worked wood of the tulip tree (Liriodendron). It is much used in cabinetwork, carriage building, etc.  Note: Several other kinds of light-colored wood are called whitewood in various countries, as the wood of Bignonia leucoxylon in the West Indies, of Pittosporum bicolor in Tasmania, etc. Whitewood bark. See the Note under Canella. 

WHITFLAW:  Whitlow. [Obs.] "The nails fallen off by whitflaws." Herrick. 

WHITHERSOEVER:  To whatever place; to what place soever; wheresoever; as, I will go whithersoever you lead. 

WHITHERWARD:  In what direction; toward what or which place. R. of Brunne. Whitherward to turn for a good course of life was by no means too apparent. Carlyle. 

WHITILE:  The yaffle. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHITING:  A young whiting. [Prov. Eng.]  2. A fair lass. "This pretty whiting-mop." Massinger. 

WHITISH:  Covered with an opaque white powder. 

WHITISHNESS:  The quality or state of being whitish or somewhat white. 

WHITLEATHER:  The paxwax. See Paxwax. 

WHITLING:  A young full trout during its second season. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHITLOW:  An inflammation of the fingers or toes, generally of the last phalanx, terminating usually in suppuration. The inflammation may occupy any seat between the skin and the bone, but is usually applied to a felon or inflammation of the periosteal structures of the bone.  2. (Far.)  An inflammatory disease of the feet. It occurs round the hoof, where an acrid matter is collected. Whitlow grass (Bot.), name given to several inconspicuous herbs, which were thought to be a cure for the whitlow, as Saxifraga tridactylites, Draba verna, and several species of Paronychia.  WHITLOW-WORT Whit"low-wort`, n. (Bot.)  Same as Whitlow grass, under Whitlow. 

WHITMONDAY:  The day following Whitsunday; -- called also Whitsun Monday. 

WHITNEYITE:  an arsenide of copper from Lake Superior. 

WHITSON:  See Whitsun. [Obs.] 

WHITSOUR:  A sort of apple. 

WHITSTER:  A whitener; a bleacher; a whitester. [Obs.] The whitsters in Datchet mead. Shak. 

WHITSUN:  Of, pertaining to, or observed at, Whitsuntide; as, Whitsun week; Whitsun Tuesday; Whitsun pastorals. 

WHITSUNDAY:  The seventh Sunday, and the fiftieth day, after Easter; a festival of the church in commemoration of the descent of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost; Pentecost; -- so called, it is said, because, in the primitive church, those who had been newly baptized appeared at church between Easter and Pentecost in white garments.  2. (Scots Law)  See the Note under Term, n., 12. 

WHITSUNTIDE:  The week commencing with Whitsunday, esp. the first three days -- Whitsunday, Whitsun Monday, and Whitsun Tuesday; the time of Pentecost. R. of Gloucester.  WHITTEN TREE Whit"ten tree`. Etym: [Probably from white; cf. AS. hwitingtreów.] (Bot.)  Either of two shrubs (Viburnum Lantana, and V. Opulus), so called on account of their whitish branches. 

WHITTERICK:  The curlew. [Prov. Eng.] 

WHITTLE:  A knife; esp., a pocket, sheath, or clasp knife. "A butcher's whittle." Dryden. "Rude whittles." Macaulay. He wore a Sheffield whittle in his hose. Betterton. 

WHITTLE:  To cut or shape a piece of wood with am small knife; to cut up a piece of wood with a knife. Dexterity with a pocketknife is a part of a Nantucket education; but I am inclined to think the propensity is national. Americans must and will whittle. Willis. 

WHITTLINGS:  Chips made by one who whittles; shavings cut from a stick with a knife. 

WHITTRET:  A weasel. [Scot.] 

WHITTUESDAY:  The day following Whitmonday; -- called also Whitsun Tuesday. 

WHITWALL:  Same as Whetile.  WHITWORTH BALL Whit"worth ball`. (Gun.)  A prejectile used in the Whitworth gun.  WHITWORTH GUN Whit"worth gun`. (Gun.)  A form of rifled cannon and small arms invented by Sir Joseph Whitworth, of Manchester, England.  Note: In Mr. Whitworth's system, the bore of the gun has a polygonal section, and the twist is rapid. The ball, which is pointed in front, is made to fit the bore accurately, and is very much elongated, its length being about three and one half times as great as its diameter. H. L. Scott.  WHITY-BROWN Whit"y-brown`, a.  Of a color between white and brown. Pegge. 

WHIZ:  To make a humming or hissing sound, like an arrow or ball flying through the air; to fly or move swiftly with a sharp hissing or whistling sound. [Written also whizz.] It flew, and whizzing, cut the liquid way. Dryden. 

WHIZ:  A hissing and humming sound. Like the whiz of my crossbow. Coleridge. 

WHIZZINGLY:  With a whizzing sound. 

WHOA:  Stop; stand; hold. See Ho, 2. 

WHOBUB:  Hubbub. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

WHOEVER:  Whatever person; any person who; be or she who; any one who; as, he shall be punished, whoever he may be. "Whoever envies or repines." Milton. "Whoever the king favors." Shak. 

WHOLE:  Having an undivided hoof, as the horse.  WHOLE-LENGTH Whole"-length`, a.  Representing the whole figure; -- said of a picture or statue.  -- n.  A portrait or statue representing the whole figure. 

WHOLENESS:  The quality or state of being whole, entire, or sound; entireness; totality; completeness. 

WHOLESALE:  Sale of goods by the piece or large quantity, as distinguished from retail. By wholesale, in the mass; in large quantities; without distinction or discrimination. Some, from vanity or envy, despise a valuable book, and throw contempt upon it by wholesale. I. Watts. 

WHOLESOME:  Thoroughly imbued with a right spirit; noble-minded; devoted. 

WHOM:  The objective case of who. See Who.  Note: In Old English, whom was also commonly used as a dative. Cf. Him. And every grass that groweth upon root She shall eke know, and whom it will do boot. Chaucer. 

WHOMSOEVER:  The objective of whosoever. See Whosoever. The Most High ruleth in the kingdow of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will. Dan. iv. 17. 

WHOOBUB:  Hubbub. [Obs.] Shak. 

WHOOP:  The hoopoe. 

WHOOP:  To insult with shouts; to chase with derision. And suffered me by the voice of slaves to be Whooped out of Rome. Shak. 

WHOOPER:  One who, or that which, whooops. Woopher swan. (Zoöl.) See the Note under Swan. 

WHOOPING:  a. & n. from Whoop, v. t. Whooping cough (Med.), a violent, convulsive cough, returning at longer or shorter intervals, and consisting of several expirations, followed by a sonorous inspiration, or whoop; chin cough; hooping cough. Dunglison.  -- Whooping crane (Zoöl.), a North American crane (Crus Americana) noted for the loud, whooplike note which it utters.  -- Whooping swan (Zoöl.), the whooper swan. See the Note under Swan. 

WHOOT:  To hoot. [Obs.] 

WHOP:  Same as Whap. Forby. 

WHOP:  Same as Whap. 

WHORE:  A woman who practices unlawful sexual commerce with men, especially one who prostitutes her body for hire; a prostitute; a harlot. Wyclif.  Syn.  -- Harlot; courtesan; prostitute; strumpet. 

WHORE:  To worship false and impure gods. 

WHORE:  To corrupt by lewd intercourse; to make a whore of; to debauch. [R.] Congreve. 

WHOREDOM:  The sin of worshiping idols; idolatry. O Ephraim, thou committest whoredom, and Israel is defiled; they will not . . . turn unto their God. Hos. v. 3, 4. 

WHOREMASTERLY:  Having the character of a whoremaster; lecherous; libidinous. 

WHOREMONGER:  A whoremaster; a lecher; a man who frequents the society of whores. 

WHORESON:  A bastard; colloquially, a low, scurvy fellow; -- used generally in contempt, or in coarse humor. Also used adjectively. [Archaic] Shak. 

WHORISH:  Resembling a whore in character or conduct; addicted to unlawful pleasures; incontinent; lewd; unchaste.  -- Whor"ish*ly, adv.  -- Whor"ish*ness, n. 

WHORL:  A circle of two or more leaves, flowers, or other organs, about the same part or joint of a stem.  2. (Zoöl.)  A volution, or turn, of the spire of a univalve shell.  3. (Spinning)  The fly of a spindle. 

WHORLED:  Furnished with whorls; arranged in the form of a whorl or whorls; verticillate; as, whorled leaves. 

WHORLER:  A potter's wheel. 

WHORT:  The whortleberry, or bilberry. See Whortleberry (a). 

WHORTLE:  The whortleberry, or bilberry. [He] looked ahead of him from behind a tump of whortles. R. D. Blackmore. 

WHOSE:  The possessive case of who or which. See Who, and Which. Whose daughter art thou tell me, I pray thee. Gen. xxiv. 23. The question whose solution I require. Dryden. 

WHOSESOEVER:  The possessive of whosoever. See Whosoever. 

WHOSO:  Whosoever. Piers Plowman. Whoso shrinks or falters now, . . . Brand the craven on his brow! Whittier. 

WHOSOEVER:  Whatsoever person; any person whatever that; whoever. Whosoever will, let him take . . . freely. Rev. xxii. 17. 

WHOT:  Hot. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WHUR:  A humming or whirring sound, like that of a body moving through the air with velocity; a whir. 

WHURRY:  To whisk along quickly; to hurry. [R.] Whurrying the chariot with them to the shore. Vicars. 

WHURT:  See Whort. 

WHY:  A young heifer. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.  WHYDAH BIRD; WHYDAH FINCH Whyd"ah bird`, or Whyd"ah finch`. (Zoöl.)  The whidah bird.  WHY-NOT Why"-not`, n.  A violent and peremptory procedure without any assigned reason; a sudden conclusive happening. [Obs.] When the church Was taken with a why-not in the lurch. Hudibras. This game . . . was like to have been lost with a why-not. Nugæ Antiq. 

WICH:  A variant of 1st Wick. 

WICHITAS:  A tribe of Indians native of the region between the Arkansas and Red rivers. They are related to the Pawnees. See Pawnees.  WICK; WICH Wick, or Wich, n. Etym: [AS. wic village, fr. L. vicus. In some names of places, perhaps fr. Icel. vik an inlet, creek, bay. See Vicinity, and cf. Villa.]  1. A street; a village; a castle; a dwelling; a place of work, or exercise of authority; -- now obsolete except in composition; as, bailiwick, Warwick, Greenwick. Stow.  2. (Curling)  A narrow port or passage in the rink or course, flanked by the stones of previous players. 

WICK:  A bundle of fibers, or a loosely twisted or braided cord, tape, or tube, usually made of soft spun cotton threads, which by capillary attraction draws up a steady supply of the oil in lamps, the melted tallow or wax in candles, or other material used for illumination, in small successive portions, to be burned. But true it is, that when the oil is spent The light goes out, and wick is thrown away. Spenser. 

WICK:  To strike a stone in an oblique direction. Jamieson. 

WICKE:  Wicked. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. "With full wikke intent." Chaucer. 

WICKED:  Having a wick; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a two-wicked lamp. 

WICKEDLY:  In a wicked manner; in a manner, or with motives and designs, contrary to the divine law or the law of morality; viciously; corruptly; immorally. I have sinned, and I have done wickedly. 2 Sam. xxiv. 17. 

WICKEDNESS:  Same as Quicken tree. 

WICKER:  Made of, or covered with, twigs or osiers, or wickerwork. Each one a little wicker basket had, Made of fine twigs, entrailéd curiously. Spenser. 

WICKERED:  Made of, secured by, or covered with, wickers or wickerwork. Ships of light timber, wickered with osier between, and covered over with leather. Milton. 

WICKERWORK:  A texture of osiers, twigs, or rods; articles made of such a texture. 

WICKET:  The space between the pillars, in postand-stall working. Raymond. Wicket door, Wicket gate, a small door or gate; a wicket. See def. 1, above. Bunyan.  -- Wicket keeper (Cricket), the player who stands behind the wicket to catch the balls and endeavor to put the batsman out. 

WICKING:  the material of which wicks are made; esp., a loosely braided or twisted cord or tape of cotton.  WICKIUP WICKYUP { Wick"i*up Wick"y*up }, n.  Vars of Wikiup.  WICLIFITE; WICKLIFFITE Wic"lif*ite, Wick"liff*ite, n.  See Wyclifite. 

WICOPY:  See Leatherwood.  WIDAL'S TEST; WIDAL TEST; WIDAL'S REACTION; WIDAL REACTION Wi*dal's", or Wi*dal", test or reaction . [After Fernand Widal (b. 1862), French physician.] (Med.)  A test for typhoid fever based on the fact that blood serum of one affected, in a bouillon culture of typhoid bacilli, causes the bacilli to agglutinate and lose their motility. 

WIDDY:  A rope or halter made of flexible twigs, or withes, as of birch. [Scot.] 

WIDE:  Made, as a vowel, with a less tense, and more open and relaxed, condition of the mouth organs; -- opposed to primary as used by Mr. Bell, and to narrow as used by Mr. Sweet. The effect, as explained by Mr. Bell, is due to the relaxation or tension of the pharynx; as explained by Mr. Sweet and others, it is due to the action of the tongue. The wide of e (eve) is î (îll); of a (ate) is ê (ênd), etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 13-15.  Note: Wide is often prefixed to words, esp. to participles and participial adjectives, to form self-explaining compounds; as, wide- beaming, wide-branched, wide-chopped, wide-echoing, wide-extended, wide-mouthed, wide-spread, wide-spreading, and the like. Far and wide. See under Far.  -- Wide gauge. See the Note under Cauge, 6. 

WIDE:  Having or covering an angle wider than the ordinary; -- applied to certain lenses of relatively short focus. Lenses for ordinary purposes have an angle of 50º or less. Wide-angle lenses may cover as much as 100º and are useful for photographing at short range, but the pictures appear distorted.  WIDE-AWAKE Wide`-a*wake", a.  Fully awake; not Dickens.  WIDE-AWAKE Wide`-a*wake", n.  A broad-brimmed, low-crowned felt hat. 

WIDEGAP:  The angler; -- called also widegab, and widegut. 

WIDEN:  To make wide or wider; to extend in breadth; to increase the width of; as, to widen a field; to widen a breach; to widen a stocking. 

WIDEN:  To grow wide or wider; to enlarge; to spread; to extend. Arches widen, and long aisles extend. Pope. 

WIDESPREAD:  Spread to a great distance; widely extended; extending far and wide; as, widespread wings; a widespread movement. 

WIDEWHERE:  Widely; far and wide. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WIDGEON:  Any one of several species of fresh-water ducks, especially those belonging to the subgenus Mareca, of the genus Anas. The common European widgeon (Anas penelope) and the American widgeon (A. Americana) are the most important species. The latter is called also baldhead, baldpate, baldface, baldcrown, smoking duck, wheat, duck, and whitebelly. Bald-faced, or Green-headed, widgeon, the American widgeon.  -- Black widgeon, the European tufted duck.  -- Gray widgeon. (a) The gadwall. (b) The pintail duck.  -- Great headed widgeon, the poachard.  -- Pied widgeon. (a) The poachard. (b) The goosander. Saw-billed widgeon, the merganser.  -- Sea widgeon. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Spear widgeon, the goosander. [Prov. Eng.] -- Spoonbilled widgeon, the shoveler.  -- White widgeon, the smew.  -- Wood widgeon, the wood duck. 

WIDISH:  Moderately wide. Tyndall.  WIDMANSTATTEN FIGURES; WIDMANSTAETTEN FIGURES Wid"man*stät`ten fig"ures. (Min.)  Certain figures appearing on etched meteoric iron; -- so called after A. B. Widmanstätten, of Vienna, who first described them in 1808. See the Note and Illust. under Meteorite. 

WIDOW:  A woman who has lost her husband by death, and has not married again; one living bereaved of a husband. "A poor widow." Chaucer. Grass widow. See under Grass.  -- Widow bewitched, a woman separated from her husband; a grass widow. [Colloq.] Widow-in-mourning (Zoöl.), the macavahu.  -- Widow monkey (Zoöl.), a small South American monkey (Callithrix lugens); -- so called on account of its color, which is black except the dull whitish arms, neck, and face, and a ring of pure white around the face.  -- Widow's chamber (Eng. Law), in London, the apparel and furniture of the bedchamber of the widow of a freeman, to which she was formerly entitled. 

WIDOW:  Widowed. "A widow woman." 1 Kings xvii. 9. "This widow lady." Shak. 

WIDOW:  See Whidan bird. 

WIDOWER:  A man who has lost his wife by death, and has not married again. Shak. 

WIDOWERHOOD:  The state of being a widower. 

WIDOWHOOD:  One who courts widows, seeking to marry one with a fortune. Addison. 

WIDOWLY:  Becoming or like a widow.  WIDOW-MAKER Wid"ow-mak`er, n.  One who makes widows by destroying husbands. [R.] Shak.  WIDOW-WAIL Wid"ow-wail`, n. (Bot.)  A low, narrowleaved evergreen shrub (Cneorum tricoccon) found in Southern Europe. 

WIDTH:  The quality of being wide; extent from side to side; breadth; wideness; as, the width of cloth; the width of a door. 

WIDUAL:  Of or pertaining to a widow; vidual. [Obs.] Bale. 

WIDWE:  A widow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WIELDABLE:  Capable of being wielded. 

WIELDANCE:  The act or power of wielding. [Obs.] "Our weak wieldance." Bp. Hall. 

WIELDER:  One who wields or employs; a manager; a controller. A wielder of the great arm of the war. Milton. 

WIELDING:  Power; authority; rule. [Obs.] To have them in your might and in your wielding. Chaucer. 

WIELDLESS:  Not to be wielded; unmanageable; unwieldy. [R.] "Wieldless might." Spenser. 

WIELDSOME:  Admitting of being easily wielded or managed. [Obs.] Golding. 

WIELDY:  Capable of being wielded; manageable; wieldable; -- opposed to unwieldy. [R.] Johnson.  WIENER SCHNITZEL Wie"ner Schnit"zel. [G., Vienna cutlet.]  A veal cutlet variously seasoned garnished, often with lemon, sardines, and capers. 

WIER:  Same as Weir. 

WIERANGLE:  Same as Wariangle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

WIERY:  Wet; moist; marshy. [Obs.] 

WIERY:  Wiry. [Obs.] "Wiery gold." Peacham. 

WIFELESS:  Without a wife; unmarried. Chaucer. 

WIFELIKE:  Of, pertaining to, or like, a wife or a woman. " Wifelike government." Shak. 

WIFELY:  Becoming or life; of or pertaining to a wife. "Wifely patience." Chaucer. With all the tenderness of wifely love. Dryden. 

WIG:  To censure or rebuke; to hold up to reprobation; to scold. [Slang] 

WIGAN:  A kind of canvaslike cotton fabric, used to stiffen and protect the lower part of trousers and of the skirts of women's dresses, etc.; -- so called from Wigan, the name of a town in Lancashire, England. 

WIGEON:  A widgeon. [R.]  WIGG; WIG Wigg, Wig, n. Etym: [Cf. D. wegge a sort of bread, G. weck, orig., a wedge-shaped loaf or cake. See Wedge.]  A kind of raised seedcake. "Wiggs and ale." Pepys. 

WIGGED:  , a. Having the head covered with a wig; wearing a wig. 

WIGGLE:  To move to and fro with a quick, jerking motion; to bend rapidly, or with a wavering motion, from side to side; to wag; to squirm; to wriggle; as, the dog wiggles his tail; the tadpole wiggles in the water. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] 

WIGGLE:  Act of wiggling; a wriggle. [Colloq.] 

WIGGLER:  The young, either larva or pupa, of the mosquito; -- called also wiggletail. 

WIGHER:  To neigh; to whinny. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 

WIGHT:  Weight. [Obs.] 

WIGHT:  Swift; nimble; agile; strong and active. [Obs. or Poetic] 'T is full wight, God wot, as is a roe. Chaucer. He was so wimble and so wight. Spenser. They were Night and Day, and Day and Night, Pilgrims wight with steps forthright. Emerson. 

WIGHTLY:  Swiftly; nimbly; quickly. [Obs.] 

WIGLESS:  Having or wearing no wig. 

WIGWAG:  To signal by means of a flag waved from side to side according to a code adopted for the purpose. [Colloq.] 

WIGWAM:  An Indian cabin or hut, usually of a conical form, and made of a framework of poles covered with hides, bark, or mats; -- called also tepee. [Sometimes written also weekwam.] Very spacious was the wigwam, Made of deerskin dressed and whitened, With the gods of the Dacotahs Drawn and painted on its curtains. Longfellow.  Note: "The wigwam, or Indian house, of a circular or oval shape, was made of bark or mats laid over a framework of branches of trees stuck in the ground in such a manner as to converge at the top, where was a central aperture for the escape of smoke from the fire beneath. The better sort had also a lining of mats. For entrance and egress, two low openings were left on opposite sides, one or the other of which was closed with bark or mats, according to the direction of the wind." Palfrey. 

WIKE:  A temporary mark or boundary, as a bough of a tree set up in marking out or dividing anything, as tithes, swaths to be mowed in common ground, etc.; -- called also wicker. [Prov. Eng.] 

WIKE:  A home; a dwelling. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 

WIKIUP:  The hut used by the nomadic Indian tribes of the arid regions of the west and southwest United States, typically elliptical in form, with a rough frame covered with reed mats or grass or brushwood. 

WIKKE:  Wicked. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WILD:  Hard to steer; -- said of a vessel.  Note: Many plants are named by prefixing wild to the names of other better known or cultivated plants to which they a bear a real or fancied resemblance; as, wild allspice, wild pink, etc. See the Phrases below.  To run wild, to go unrestrained or untamed; to live or untamed; to live or grow without culture or training.  -- To sow one's wild oats. See under Oat. Wild allspice. (Bot.), spicewood.  -- Wild balsam apple (Bot.), an American climbing cucurbitaceous plant (Echinocystis lobata).  -- Wild basil (Bot.), a fragrant labiate herb (Calamintha Clinopodium) common in Europe and America.  -- Wild bean (Bot.), a name of several leguminous plants, mostly species of Phaseolus and Apios.  -- Wild bee (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of undomesticated social bees, especially the domestic bee when it has escaped from domestication and built its nest in a hollow tree or among rocks.  -- Wild bergamot. (Bot.) See under Bergamot.  -- Wild boar (Zoöl.), the European wild hog (Sus scrofa), from which the common domesticated swine is descended.  -- Wild brier (Bot.), any uncultivated species of brier. See Brier.  -- Wild bugloss (Bot.), an annual rough-leaved plant (Lycopsis arvensis) with small blue flowers.  -- Wild camomile (Bot.), one or more plants of the composite genus Matricaria, much resembling camomile.  -- Wild cat. (Zoöl.) (a) A European carnivore (Felis catus) somewhat resembling the domestic cat, but larger stronger, and having a short tail. It is destructive to the smaller domestic animals, such as lambs, kids, poultry, and the like. (b) The common American lynx, or bay lynx. (c) (Naut.) A wheel which can be adjusted so as to revolve either with, or on, the shaft of a capstan. Luce.  -- Wild celery. (Bot.) See Tape grass, under Tape.  -- Wild cherry. (Bot.) (a) Any uncultivated tree which bears cherries. The wild red cherry is Prunus Pennsylvanica. The wild black cherry is P. serotina, the wood of which is much used for cabinetwork, being of a light red color and a compact texture. (b) The fruit of various species of Prunus.  -- Wild cinnamon. See the Note under Canella.  -- Wild comfrey (Bot.), an American plant (Cynoglossum Virginicum) of the Borage family. It has large bristly leaves and small blue flowers.  -- Wild cumin (Bot.), an annual umbelliferous plant (Lagoecia cuminoides) native in the countries about the Mediterranean.  -- Wild drake (Zoöl.) the mallard.  -- Wild elder (Bot.), an American plant (Aralia hispida) of the Ginseng family.  -- Wild fowl (Zoöl.) any wild bird, especially any of those considered as game birds.  -- Wild goose (Zoöl.), any one of several species of undomesticated geese, especially the Canada goose (Branta Canadensis), the European bean goose, and the graylag. See Graylag, and Bean goose, under Bean.  -- Wild goose chase, the pursuit of something unattainable, or of something as unlikely to be caught as the wild goose. Shak.  -- Wild honey, honey made by wild bees, and deposited in trees, rocks, the like.  -- Wild hyacinth. (Bot.) See Hyacinth, 1 (b). Wild Irishman (Bot.), a thorny bush (Discaria Toumatou) of the Buckthorn family, found in New Zealand, where the natives use the spines in tattooing.  -- Wild land. (a) Land not cultivated, or in a state that renders it unfit for cultivation. (b) Land which is not settled and cultivated.  -- Wild licorice. (Bot.) See under Licorice.  -- Wild mammee (Bot.), the oblong, yellowish, acid fruit of a tropical American tree (Rheedia lateriflora); -- so called in the West Indies.  -- Wild marjoram (Bot.), a labiate plant (Origanum vulgare) much like the sweet marjoram, but less aromatic.  -- Wild oat. (Bot.) (a) A tall, oatlike kind of soft grass (Arrhenatherum avenaceum). (b) See Wild oats, under Oat.  -- Wild pieplant (Bot.), a species of dock (Rumex hymenosepalus) found from Texas to California. Its acid, juicy stems are used as a substitute for the garden rhubarb.  -- Wild pigeon. (Zoöl.) (a) The rock dove. (b) The passenger pigeon.  -- Wild pink (Bot.), an American plant (Silene Pennsylvanica) with pale, pinkish flowers; a kind of catchfly.  -- Wild plantain (Bot.), an arborescent endogenous herb (Heliconia Bihai), much resembling the banana. Its leaves and leaf sheaths are much used in the West Indies as coverings for packages of merchandise.  -- Wild plum. (Bot.) (a) Any kind of plum growing without cultivation. (b) The South African prune. See under Prune.  -- Wild rice. (Bot.) See Indian rice, under Rice.  -- Wild rosemary (Bot.), the evergreen shrub Andromeda polifolia. See Marsh rosemary, under Rosemary.  -- Wild sage. (Bot.) See Sagebrush.  -- Wild sarsaparilla (Bot.), a species of ginseng (Aralia nudicaulis) bearing a single long-stalked leaf.  -- Wild sensitive plant (Bot.), either one of two annual leguminous herbs (Cassia Chamæcrista, and C. nictitans), in both of which the leaflets close quickly when the plant is disturbed.  -- Wild service.(Bot.) See Sorb.  -- Wild Spaniard (Bot.), any one of several umbelliferous plants of the genus Aciphylla, natives of New Zealand. The leaves bear numerous bayonetlike spines, and the plants form an impenetrable thicket.  -- Wild turkey. (Zoöl.) See 2d Turkey. 

WILD:  An uninhabited and uncultivated tract or region; a forest or desert; a wilderness; a waste; as, the wilds of America; the wilds of Africa. then Libya first, of all her moisture drained, Became a barren waste, a wild of sand. Addison. 

WILD:  Wildly; as, to talk wild. Shak.  WILD-CAT Wild"-cat`, a.  1. Unsound; worthless; irresponsible; unsafe; -- said to have been originally applied to the notes of an insolvent bank in Michigan upon which there was the figure of a panther.  2. (Railroad)  Running without control; running along the line without a train; as, a wild-cat locomotive. 

WILDEBEEST:  The gnu. 

WILDED:  Become wild. [R.] An old garden plant escaped and wilded. J. Earle. 

WILDER:  To bewilder; to perplex. Long lost and wildered in the maze of fate. Pope. Again the wildered fancy dreams Of spouting fountains, frozen as they rose. Bryant. 

WILDERING:  A plant growing in a state of nature; especially, one which has run wild, or escaped from cultivation. 

WILDERMENT:  The state of being bewildered; confusion; bewilderment. And snatched her breathless from beneath This wilderment of wreck and death. Moore. 

WILDGRAVE:  A waldgrave, or head forest keeper. See Waldgrave. The wildgrave winds his bugle horn. Sir W. Scott. 

WILDING:  A wild or uncultivated plant; especially, a wild apple tree or crab apple; also, the fruit of such a plant. Spenser. Ten ruddy wildings in the wood I found. Dryden. The fruit of the tree . . . is small, of little juice, and bad quality. I presume it to be a wilding. Landor. 

WILDING:  Not tame, domesticated, or cultivated; wild. [Poetic] "Wilding flowers." Tennyson. The ground squirrel gayly chirps by his den, And the wilding bee hums merrily by. Bryant. 

WILDISH:  Somewhat wild; rather wild. "A wildish destiny." Wordsworth. 

WILDLY:  In a wild manner; without cultivation; with disorder; rudely; distractedly; extravagantly. 

WILDNESS:  The quality or state of being wild; an uncultivated or untamed state; disposition to rove or go unrestrained; rudeness; savageness; irregularity; distraction. 

WILDWOOD:  A wild or unfrequented wood. Also used adjectively; as, wildwood flowers; wildwood echoes. Burns. 

WILE:  A trick or stratagem practiced for insnaring or deception; a sly, insidious; artifice; a beguilement; an allurement. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Eph. vi. 11. Not more almighty to resist our might, Than wise to frustrate all our plots and wiles. Milton. 

WILEFUL:  Full of wiles; trickish; deceitful.  WILFLEY TABLE Wil"fley ta`ble. (Ore Dressing)  An inclined percussion table, usually with longitudinal grooves in its surface, agitated by side blows at right angles to the flow of the pulp; -- so called after the inventor.  WILFUL; WILFULLY; WILFULNESS Wil"ful, a., Wil"ful*ly, adv., Wil"ful*ness, n.  See Willful, Willfully, and Willfulness. 

WILINESS:  The quality or state of being wily; craftiness; cunning; guile. 

WILK:  See Whelk. [Obs.] 

WILL:  The legal declaration of a person's mind as to the manner in which he would have his property or estate disposed of after his death; the written instrument, legally executed, by which a man makes disposition of his estate, to take effect after his death; testament; devise. See the Note under Testament, 1.  Note: Wills are written or nuncupative, that is, oral. See Nuncupative will, under Nuncupative. At will (Law), at pleasure. To hold an estate at the will of another, is to enjoy the possession at his pleasure, and be liable to be ousted at any time by the lessor or proprietor. An estate at will is at the will of both parties.  -- Good will. See under Good.  -- Ill will, enmity; unfriendliness; malevolence.  -- To have one's will, to obtain what is desired; to do what one pleases.  -- Will worship, worship according to the dictates of the will or fancy; formal worship. [Obs.] -- Will worshiper, one who offers will worship. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.  -- With a will, with willingness and zeal; with all one's heart or strength; earnestly; heartily. 

WILL:  To be willing; to be inclined or disposed; to be pleased; to wish; to desire. And behold, there came a leper and worshiped him, saying, Lord if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. And Jesus . . . touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. Matt. viii. 2, 3.  Note: This word has been confused with will, v. i., to choose, which, unlike this, is of the weak conjugation. Will I, nill I, or Will ye, hill ye, or Will he, nill he, whether I, you, or he will it or not; hence, without choice; compulsorily; -- sometimes corrupted into willy nilly. "If I must take service willy nilly." J. H. Newman. "Land for all who would till it, and reading and writing will ye, nill ye." Lowell. 

WILL:  To exercise an act of volition; to choose; to decide; to determine; to decree. At Winchester he lies, so himself willed. Robert of Brunne. He that shall turn his thoughts inward upon what passes in his own mind when he wills. Locke. I contend for liberty as it signifies a power in man to do as he wills or pleases. Collins. 

WILLEMITE:  A silicate of zinc, usually occurring massive and of a greenish yellow color, also in reddish crystals (troostite) containing manganese. 

WILLER:  One who wills. 

WILLET:  A large North American snipe (Symphemia semipalmata); -- called also pill-willet, will-willet, semipalmated tattler, or snipe, duck snipe, and stone curlew. Carolina willet, the Hudsonian godwit. 

WILLIER:  One who works at a willying machine. 

WILLINGLY:  In a willing manner; with free will; without reluctance; cheerfully. Chaucer. The condition of that people is not so much to be envied as some would willingly represent it. Addison. 

WILLINGNESS:  The quality or state of being willing; free choice or consent of the will; freedom from reluctance; readiness of the mind to do or forbear. Sweet is the love which comes with willingness. Dryden.  WILLIWAW; WILLYWAW Wil"li*waw, Wil"ly*waw, n. (Naut.)  A whirlwind, or whirlwind squall, encountered in the Straits of Magellan. W. C. Russell. 

WILLOCK:  See Ignis fatuus. 

WILLOW:  Any tree or shrub of the genus Salix, including many species, most of which are characterized often used as an emblem of sorrow, desolation, or desertion. "A wreath of willow to show my forsaken plight." Sir W. Scott. Hence, a lover forsaken by, or having lost, the person beloved, is said to wear the willow. And I must wear the willow garland For him that's dead or false to me. Campbell.  2. (Textile Manuf.)  A machine in which cotton or wool is opened and cleansed by the action of long spikes projecting from a drum which revolves within a box studded with similar spikes; -- probably so called from having been originally a cylindrical cage made of willow rods, though some derive the term from winnow, as denoting the winnowing, or cleansing, action of the machine. Called also willy, twilly, twilly devil, and devil. Almond willow, Pussy willow, Weeping willow. (Bot.) See under Almond, Pussy, and Weeping.  -- Willow biter (Zoöl.) the blue tit. [Prov. Eng.] -- Willow fly (Zoöl.), a greenish European stone fly (Chloroperla viridis); -- called also yellow Sally.  -- Willow gall (Zoöl.), a conical, scaly gall produced on willows by the larva of a small dipterous fly (Cecidomyia strobiloides).  -- Willow grouse (Zoöl.), the white ptarmigan. See ptarmigan.  -- Willow lark (Zoöl.), the sedge warbler. [Prov. Eng.] -- Willow ptarmigan (Zoöl.) (a) The European reed bunting, or black-headed bunting. See under Reed. (b) A sparrow (Passer salicicolus) native of Asia, Africa, and Southern Europe.  -- Willow tea, the prepared leaves of a species of willow largely grown in the neighborhood of Shanghai, extensively used by the poorer classes of Chinese as a substitute for tea. McElrath.  -- Willow thrush (Zoöl.), a variety of the veery, or Wilson's thrush. See Veery.  -- Willow warbler (Zoöl.), a very small European warbler (Phylloscopus trochilus); -- called also bee bird, haybird, golden wren, pettychaps, sweet William, Tom Thumb, and willow wren. 

WILLOW:  To open and cleanse, as cotton, flax, or wool, by means of a willow. See Willow, n., 2. 

WILLOWED:  Abounding with willows; containing willows; covered or overgrown with willows. "Willowed meads." Collins. 

WILLOWER:  A willow. See Willow, n., 2.  WILLOW-HERB Wil"low-herb`, n. (Bot.)  A perennial herb (Epilobium spicatum) with narrow willowlike leaves and showy rose-purple flowers. The name is sometimes made to include other species of the same genus. Spiked willow-herb, a perennial herb (Lythrum Salicaria) with willowy leaves and spiked purplish flowers. 

WILLOWISH:  Having the color of the willow; resembling the willow; willowy. Walton.  WILLOW-THORN Wil"low-thorn`, n. (Bot.)  A thorny European shrub (Hippophaë rhamnoides) resembling a willow.  WILLOW-WEED Wil"low-weed`, n. (Bot.) (a) A European species of loosestrife (Lysimachia vulgaris). (b) Any kind of Polygonum with willowlike foliage.  WILLOW-WORT Wil"low-wort`, n. (Bot.) (a) Same as Willow-weed. (b) Any plant of the order Salicaceæ, or the Willow family. 

WILLY:  Same as 1st Willow, 2. 

WILLYING:  The process of cleansing wool, cotton, or the like, with a willy, or willow. Willying machine. Same as 1st Willow, 2  WILLY NILLY Wil"ly nil"ly.  See Will I, nill I, etc., under 3d Will. 

WILNE:  To wish; to desire. [Obs.] "He willneth no destruction." Chaucer. 

WILT:  2d pers. sing. of Will. 

WILT:  To begin to wither; to lose freshness and become flaccid, as a plant when exposed when exposed to drought, or to great heat in a dry day, or when separated from its root; to droop;. to wither. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.] 

WILT:  A kind of carpet woven with loops like the Brussels, but differing from it in having the loops cut so as to form an elastic velvet pile; -- so called because made originally at Wilton, England. 

WILWE:  Willow. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WILY:  Full of wiles, tricks, or stratagems; using craft or stratagem to accomplish a purpose; mischievously artful; subtle. "Wily and wise." Chaucer. "The wily snake." Milton. This false, wily, doubling disposition of mind. South.  Syn.  -- Cunning; artful; sly; crafty. See Cunning. 

WIMBLE:  An instrument for boring holes, turned by a handle. Specifically: (a) A gimlet. " It is but like the little wimble, to let in the greater auger." Selden. (b) A stonecutter's brace for boring holes in stone. (c) An auger used for boring in earth. 

WIMBLE:  To bore or pierce, as with a wimble. "A foot soldier . . . wimbled also a hole through said coffin." Wood. 

WIMBLE:  Active; nimble.[Obs.] Spenser. 

WIMBREL:  The whimbrel. 

WIMPLE:  To lie in folds; also, to appear as if laid in folds or plaits; to ripple; to undulate. "Wimpling waves." Longfellow. For with a veil, that wimpled everywhere, Her head and face was hid. Spenser. With me through . . . meadows stray, Where wimpling waters make their way. Ramsay. 

WIN:  To extract, as ore or coal. Raymond.  Syn.  -- To gain; get; procure; earn. See Gain. 

WIN:  To gain the victory; to be successful; to triumph; to prevail. Nor is it aught but just That he, who in debate of truth hath won, should win in arms. Milton. To win of, to be conqueror over. [Obs.] Shak.  -- To win on or upon. (a) To gain favor or influence with. "You have a softness and beneficence winning on the hearts of others." Dryden. (b) To gain ground on. "The rabble . . . will in time win upon power." Shak. 

WINCE:  The act of one who winces. 

WINCE:  A reel used in dyeing, steeping, or washing cloth; a winch. It is placed over the division wall between two wince pits so as to allow the cloth to descend into either compartment. at will. Wince pit, Wince pot, a tank or a pit where cloth in the process of dyeing or manufacture is washed, dipped in a mordant, or the like. 

WINCER:  One who, or that which, winces, shrinks, or kicks. 

WINCEY:  Linsey-woolsey. 

WINCH:  To wince; to shrink; to kick with impatience or uneasiness. 

WINCH:  A kick, as of a beast, from impatience or uneasiness. Shelton. 

WINCING:  The act of washing cloth, dipping it in dye, etc., with a wince. Wincing machine. (a) A wince. Ure. (b) A succession of winces. See Wince. Knight. 

WINCOPIPE:  A little red flower, no doubt the pimpernel, which, when it opens in the morning, is supposed to bode a fair day. See Pimpernel. There is small red flower in the stubble fields, which country people call the wincopipe; which if it opens in the morning, you may be sure a fair day will follow. Bacon. 

WIND:  The act of winding or turning; a turn; a bend; a twist; a winding. 

WIND:  A disease of sheep, in which the intestines are distended with air, or rather affected with a violent inflammation. It occurs immediately after shearing.  9. Mere breath or talk; empty effort; idle words. Nor think thou with wind Of airy threats to awe. Milton.  10. (Zoöl.)  The dotterel. [Prov. Eng.]  Note: Wind is often used adjectively, or as the first part of compound words. All in the wind. (Naut.) See under All, n.  -- Before the wind. (Naut.) See under Before.  -- Between wind and water (Naut.), in that part of a ship's side or bottom which is frequently brought above water by the rolling of the ship, or fluctuation of the water's surface. Hence, colloquially, (as an injury to that part of a vessel, in an engagement, is particularly dangerous) the vulnerable part or point of anything.  -- Cardinal winds. See under Cardinal, a.  -- Down the wind. (a) In the direction of, and moving with, the wind; as, birds fly swiftly down the wind. (b) Decaying; declining; in a state of decay. [Obs.] "He went down the wind still." L'Estrange.  -- In the wind's eye (Naut.), directly toward the point from which the wind blows.  -- Three sheets in the wind, unsteady from drink. [Sailors' Slang] - - To be in the wind, to be suggested or expected; to be a matter of suspicion or surmise. [Colloq.] -- To carry the wind (Man.), to toss the nose as high as the ears, as a horse.  -- To raise the wind, to procure money. [Colloq.] -- To take, or have, the wind, to gain or have the advantage. Bacon.  -- To take the wind out of one's sails, to cause one to stop, or lose way, as when a vessel intercepts the wind of another. [Colloq.] -- To take wind, or To get wind, to be divulged; to become public; as, the story got wind, or took wind.  -- Wind band (Mus.), a band of wind instruments; a military band; the wind instruments of an orchestra.  -- Wind chest (Mus.), a chest or reservoir of wind in an organ.  -- Wind dropsy. (Med.) (a) Tympanites. (b) Emphysema of the subcutaneous areolar tissue.  -- Wind egg, an imperfect, unimpregnated, or addled egg.  -- Wind furnace. See the Note under Furnace.  -- Wind gauge. See under Gauge.  -- Wind gun. Same as Air gun.  -- Wind hatch (Mining), the opening or place where the ore is taken out of the earth.  -- Wind instrument (Mus.), an instrument of music sounded by means of wind, especially by means of the breath, as a flute, a clarinet, etc.  -- Wind pump, a pump moved by a windmill.  -- Wind rose, a table of the points of the compass, giving the states of the barometer, etc., connected with winds from the different directions.  -- Wind sail. (a) (Naut.) A wide tube or funnel of canvas, used to convey a stream of air for ventilation into the lower compartments of a vessel. (b) The sail or vane of a windmill.  -- Wind shake, a crack or incoherence in timber produced by violent winds while the timber was growing.  -- Wind shock, a wind shake.  -- Wind side, the side next the wind; the windward side. [R.] Mrs. Browning.  -- Wind rush (Zoöl.), the redwing. [Prov. Eng.] -- Wind wheel, a motor consisting of a wheel moved by wind.  -- Wood wind (Mus.), the flutes and reed instruments of an orchestra, collectively. 

WIND:  To blow; to sound by blowing; esp., to sound with prolonged and mutually involved notes. "Hunters who wound their horns." Pennant. Ye vigorous swains, while youth ferments your blood, . . . Wind the shrill horn. Pope. That blast was winded by the king. Sir W. Scott. 

WINDAGE:  The difference between the diameter of the bore of a gun and that of the shot fired from it.  2. The sudden compression of the air caused by a projectile in passing close to another body. 

WINDAS:  See 3d Windlass. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WINDBORE:  The lower, or bottom, pipe in a lift of pumps in a mine. Ansted. 

WINDBOUND:  prevented from sailing, by a contrary wind. See Weatherbound.  WIND-BREAK Wind"-break`, v. t.  To break the wind of; to cause to lose breath; to exhaust. [R.] 'T would wind-break a mule to vie burdens with her. Ford.  WIND-BREAK Wind"-break`, n.  A clump of trees serving for a protection against the force of wind. [Local, U. S.]  WIND-BROKEN Wind"-bro`ken, a.  Having the power of breathing impaired by the rupture, dilatation, or running together of air cells of the lungs, so that while the inspiration is by one effort, the expiration is by two; affected with pulmonary emphysema or with heaves; -- said of a horse. Youatt. 

WINDER:  One in a flight of steps which are curved in plan, so that each tread is broader at one end than at the other; -- distinguished from flyer. 

WINDER:  To fan; to clean grain with a fan. [Prov. Eng.] 

WINDER:  A blow taking away the breath. [Slang] 

WINDER:  To wither; to fail. [Obs.] Holland. 

WINDFALLEN:  Blown down by the wind.  WIND-FERTILIZED Wind"-fer`ti*lized, a. (Bot.)  Anemophilous; fertilized by pollen borne by the wind. 

WINDFLOWER:  The anemone; -- so called because formerly supposed to open only when the wind was blowing. See Anemone. 

WINDGALL:  A soft tumor or synovial swelling on the fetlock joint of a horse; -- so called from having formerly been supposed to contain air. 

WINDHOVER:  The kestrel; -- called also windbibber, windcuffer, windfanner. [Prov. Eng.] 

WINDING:  A call by the boatswain's whistle. 

WINDING:  Twisting from a direct line or an even surface; circuitous. Keble. 

WINDING:  A turn or turning; a bend; a curve; flexure; meander; as, the windings of a road or stream. To nurse the saplings tall, and curl the grove With ringlets quaint, and wanton windings wove. Milton.  A line- or ribbon-shaped material (as wire, string, or bandaging) wound around an object; as, the windings (conducting wires) wound around the armature of an electric motor or generator. Winding engine, an engine employed in mining to draw up buckets from a deep pit; a hoisting engine.  -- Winding sheet, a sheet in which a corpse is wound or wrapped.  -- Winding tackle (Naut.), a tackle consisting of a fixed triple block, and a double or triple movable block, used for hoisting heavy articles in or out of a vessel. Totten. 

WINDINGLY:  In a winding manner. 

WINDLACE:  See Windlass. [Obs.] Two arblasts, . . . with windlaces and quarrels. Sir W. Scott. 

WINDLASS:  A winding and circuitous way; a roundabout course; a shift. 

WINDLASS:  To take a roundabout course; to work warily or by indirect means. [Obs.] Hammond. 

WINDLASS:  To raise with, or as with, a windlass; to use a windlass. The Century. 

WINDLE:  The redwing. [Prov. Eng.] 

WINDLESS:  A grass used for making ropes or for plaiting, esp. Agrostis Spica-ventis. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Shelley. 

WINDMILL:  A mill operated by the power of the wind, usually by the action of the wind upon oblique vanes or sails which radiate from a horizontal shaft. Chaucer. 

WINDORE:  A window. [Obs.] Hudibras. 

WINDOW:  The shutter, casement, sash with its fittings, or other framework, which closes a window opening.  3. A figure formed of lines crossing each other. [R.] Till he has windows on his bread and butter. King.  French window (Arch.), a casement window in two folds, usually reaching to the floor; -- called also French casement.  -- Window back (Arch.), the inside face of the low, and usually thin, piece of wall between the window sill and the floor below.  -- Window blind, a blind or shade for a window.  -- Window bole, part of a window closed by a shutter which can be opened at will. [Scot.] -- Window box, one of the hollows in the sides of a window frame for the weights which counterbalance a lifting sash.  -- Window frame, the frame of a window which receives and holds the sashes or casement.  -- Window glass, panes of glass for windows; the kind of glass used in windows.  -- Window martin (Zoöl.), the common European martin. [Prov. Eng.] - - Window oyster (Zoöl.), a marine bivalve shell (Placuna placenta) native of the East Indies and China. Its valves are very broad, thin, and translucent, and are said to have been used formerly in place of glass.  -- Window pane. (a) (Arch.) See Pane, n., 3 (b). (b) (Zoöl.) See Windowpane, in the Vocabulary.  -- Window sash, the sash, or light frame, in which panes of glass are set for windows.  -- Window seat, a seat arranged in the recess of a window. See Window stool, under Stool.  -- Window shade, a shade or blind for a window; usually, one that is hung on a roller.  -- Window shell (Zoöl.), the window oyster.  -- Window shutter, a shutter or blind used to close or darken windows.  -- Window sill (Arch.), the flat piece of wood, stone, or the like, at the bottom of a window frame.  -- Window swallow (Zoöl.), the common European martin. [Prov. Eng.] -- Window tax, a tax or duty formerly levied on all windows, or openings for light, above the number of eight in houses standing in cities or towns. [Eng.] 

WINDOWED:  Having windows or openings. [R.] "Looped and windowed raggedness." Shak. 

WINDOWLESS:  Destitute of a window. Carlyle. 

WINDOWPANE:  See Pane, n., (3) b. [In this sense, written also window pane.]  2. (Zoöl.)  A thin, spotted American turbot (Pleuronectes maculatus) remarkable for its translucency. It is not valued as a food fish. Called also spotted turbot, daylight, spotted sand flounder, and water flounder. 

WINDOWY:  Having little crossings or openings like the sashes of a window. [R.] Donne. 

WINDPIPE:  The passage for the breath from the larynx to the lungs; the trachea; the weasand. See Illust. under Lung.  WIND-PLANT Wind"-plant`, n. (Bot.)  A windflower.  WIND-RODE Wind"-rode`, a. (Naut.)  Caused to ride or drive by the wind in opposition to the course of the tide; -- said of a vessel lying at anchor, with wind and tide opposed to each other. Totten. 

WINDROW:  To arrange in lines or windrows, as hay when newly made. Forby.  WIND-SHAKEN Wind"-shak`en, a.  Shaken by the wind; specif. (Forestry),  affected by wind shake, or anemosis (which see, above).  WIND SIGNAL Wind signal.  In general, any signal announcing information concerning winds, and esp. the expected approach of winds whose direction and force are dangerous to shipping, etc. The wind-signal system of the United States Weather Bureau consists of storm, information, hurricane, hot wind, and inland storm signals. 

WINDSOR:  A town in Berkshire, England. Windsor bean. (Bot.) See under Bean.  -- Windsor chair, a kind of strong, plain, polished, wooden chair. Simmonds.  -- Windsor soap, a scented soap well known for its excellence. 

WINDSTORM:  A storm characterized by high wind with little or no rain.  WIND-SUCKER Wind"-suck`er, n.  1. (Far.) A horse given to wind-sucking Law.  2. (Zoöl.)  The kestrel. B. Jonson.  WIND-SUCKING Wind"-suck`ing, n. (Far.)  A vicious habit of a horse, consisting in the swallowing of air; -- usually associated with crib-biting, or cribbing. See Cribbing, 4. 

WINDTIGHT:  So tight as to prevent the passing through of wind. Bp. Hall.  WIND-UP Wind"-up`, n.  Act of winding up, or closing; a concluding act or part; the end. 

WINDWARD:  The point or side from which the wind blows; as, to ply to the windward; -- opposed to Ant: leeward. To lay an anchor to the windward, a figurative expression, signifying to adopt precautionary or anticipatory measures for success or security. 

WINDWARD:  Situated toward the point from which the wind blows; as, the Windward Islands. 

WINDWARD:  Toward the wind; in the direction from which the wind blows. 

WINEBIBBER:  One who drinks much wine. Prov. xxiii. 20.  -- Wine"bib`bing, n. 

WINEGLASS:  A small glass from to drink wine. 

WINEGLASSFUL:  As much as a wineglass will hold; enough to fill a wineglass. It is usually reckoned at two fluid ounces, or four tablespoonfuls. 

WINELESS:  destitute of wine; as, wineless life. 

WINERY:  A place where grapes are converted into wine. 

WINESAP:  A variety of winter apple of medium size, deep red color, and yellowish flesh of a rich, rather subacid flavor. 

WING:  One of the broad, thin, anterior lobes of the foot of a pteropod, used as an organ in swimming. (b) (Bot.) Any membranaceous expansion, as that along the sides of certain stems, or of a fruit of the kind called samara. (c) (Bot.) Either of the two side petals of a papilionaceous flower.  8. One of two corresponding appendages attached; a sidepiece. Hence: (a) (Arch.) A side building, less than the main edifice; as, one of the wings of a palace. (b) (Fort.) The longer side of crownworks, etc., connecting them with the main work. (c) (Hort.) A side shoot of a tree or plant; a branch growing up by the side of another. [Obs.] (d) (Mil.)  The right or left division of an army, regiment, etc. (e) (Naut.) That part of the hold or orlop of a vessel which is nearest the sides. In a fleet, one of the extremities when the ships are drawn up in line, or when forming the two sides of a triangle. Totten. (f) One of the sides of the stags in a theater. On the wing. (a) Supported by, or flying with, the wings another.  -- On the wings of the wind, with the utmost velocity.  -- Under the wing, or wings, of, under the care or protection of.  -- Wing and wing (Naut.), with sails hauled out on either side; -- said of a schooner, or her sails, when going before the wind with the foresail on one side and the mainsail on the other; also said of a square-rigged vessel which has her studding sails set. Cf. Goosewinged.  -- Wing case (Zoöl.), one of the anterior wings of beetles, and of some other insects, when thickened and used to protect the hind wings; an elytron; -- called also wing cover.  -- Wing covert (Zoöl.), one of the small feathers covering the bases of the wing quills. See Covert, n., 2.  -- Wing gudgeon (Mach.), an iron gudgeon for the end of a wooden axle, having thin, broad projections to prevent it from turning in the wood. See Illust. of Gudgeon.  -- Wing shell (Zoöl.), wing case of an insect.  -- Wing stroke, the stroke or sweep of a wing.  -- Wing transom (Naut.), the uppermost transom of the stern; -- called also main transom. J. Knowles. 

WINGED:  Furnished with a leaflike appendage, as the fruit of the elm and the ash, or the stem in certain plants; alate.  6. (Her.)  Represented with wings, or having wings, of a different tincture from the body.  7. Fanned with wings; swarming with birds. "The winged air darked with plumes." Milton. 

WINGER:  One of the casks stowed in the wings of a vessel's hold, being smaller than such as are stowed more amidships. Totten. 

WINGFISH:  A sea robin having large, winglike pectoral fins. See Sea robin, under Robin.  WING-FOOTED Wing"-foot`ed, a.  1. Having wings attached to the feet; as, wing-footed Mercury; hence, swift; moving with rapidity; fleet. Drayton.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) Having part or all of the feet adapted for flying. (b) Having the anterior lobes of the foot so modified as to form a pair of winglike swimming organs; -- said of the pteropod mollusks.  WING-HANDED Wing"-hand`ed, a. (Zoöl.)  Having the anterior limbs or hands adapted for flight, as the bats and pterodactyls.  WING-LEAVED Wing"-leaved`, a. (Bot.)  Having pinnate or pinnately divided leaves. 

WINGLESS:  Having no wings; not able to ascend or fly. Wingless bird (Zoöl.), the apteryx. 

WINGLET:  A bastard wing, or alula. 

WINGMANSHIP:  Power or skill in flying. [R.] Duke of Argyll.  WING-SHELL Wing"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of various species of marine bivalve shells belonging to the genus Avicula, in which the hinge border projects like a wing. (b) Any marine gastropod shell of the genus Strombus. See Strombus. (c) Any pteropod shell. 

WINK:  To cause (the eyes) to wink.[Colloq.] 

WINKINGLY:  In a winking manner; with the eye almost closed. Peacham. 

WINKLE:  A rectangular rent made in cloth; -- called also winkle-hole. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. 

WINNARD:  The redwing. [Prov. Eng.] 

WINNEBAGOES:  A tribe of North American Indians who originally occupied the region about Green Bay, Lake Michigan, but were driven back from the lake and nearly exterminated in 1640 by the IIlinnois. 

WINNER:  One who wins, or gains by success in competition, contest, or gaming. 

WINNING:  Attracting; adapted to gain favor; charming; as, a winning address. "Each mild and winning note." Keble. 

WINNINGLY:  In a winning manner. 

WINNINGNESS:  The quality or state of being winning. "Winningness in style." J. Morley. 

WINNINISH:  The land-locked variety of the common salmon. [Canada] 

WINNOW:  To separate chaff from grain. Winnow not with every wind. Ecclus. v. 9. 

WINNOWER:  One who, or that which, winnows; specifically, a winnowing machine. 

WINNOWING:  The act of one who, or that which, winnows. 

WINROW:  A windrow. 

WINSING:  Winsome. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WINSOMENESS:  The characteristic of being winsome; attractiveness of manner. J. R. Green. 

WINTER:  To pass the winter; to hibernate; as, to winter in Florida. Because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more part advised to depart thence. Acts xxvii. 12. 

WINTER:  To keep, feed or manage, during the winter; as, to winter young cattle on straw.  WINTER-BEATEN Win"ter-beat`en, a.  Beaten or harassed by the severe weather of winter. Spenser. 

WINTERGREEN:  A plant which keeps its leaves green through the winter.  Note: In England, the name wintergreen is applied to the species of Pyrola which in America are called English wintergreen, and shin leaf (see Shin leaf, under Shin.) In America, the name wintergreen is given to Gaultheria procumbens, a low evergreen aromatic plant with oval leaves clustered at the top of a short stem, and bearing small white flowers followed by red berries; -- called also checkerberry, and sometimes, though improperly, partridge berry. Chickweed wintergreen, a low perennial primulaceous herb (Trientalis Americana); -- also called star flower.  -- Flowering wintergreen, a low plant (Polygala paucifolia) with leaves somewhat like those of the wintergreen (Gaultheria), and bearing a few showy, rose-purple blossoms.  -- Spotted wintergreen, a low evergreen plant (Chimaphila maculata) with ovate, white-spotted leaves.  WINTER-GROUND Win"ter-ground`, v. t.  To coved over in the season of winter, as for protection or shelter; as, to winter-ground the roods of a plant. The ruddock would . . . bring thee all this, Yea, and furred moss besides, when flowers are none To winter-ground thy corse. Shak. 

WINTERKILL:  To kill by the cold, or exposure to the inclemency of winter; as, the wheat was winterkilled. [U. S.] 

WINTERLY:  Like winter; wintry; cold; hence, disagreeable, cheerless; as, winterly news. [R.] Shak. The sir growing more winterly in the month of April. Camden.  WINTER-PROUD Win"ter-proud`, a.  Having too rank or forward a growth for winter. When either corn is winter-proud, or other plants put forth and bud too early. Holland.  WINTER-RIG Win"ter-rig`, v. t. Etym: [See Winter and Ridge.]  To fallow or till in winter. [Prov. Eng.]  WINTER'S BARK Win"ter's bark`. (Bot.)  The aromatic bark of tree (Drimys, or Drymis, Winteri) of the Magnolia family, which is found in Southern Chili. It was first used as a cure for scurvy by its discoverer, Captain John Winter, vice admiral to sir Francis Drake, in 1577. 

WINTERTIDE:  Winter time. Tennyson. 

WINTERWEED:  A kind of speedwell (Veronica hederifolia) which spreads chiefly in winter. Dr. Prior. 

WINTERY:  Wintry. 

WINTRY:  Suitable to winter; resembling winter, or what belongs to winter; brumal; hyemal; cold; stormy; wintery. Touch our chilled hearts with vernal smile, Our wintry course do thou beguile. Keble. 

WINY:  Having the taste or qualities of wine; vinous; as, grapes of a winy taste. Dampier. 

WINZE:  A small shaft sunk from one level to another, as for the purpose of ventilation. 

WIPE:  The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] 

WIPER:  A piece generally projecting from a rotating or swinging piece, as an axle or rock shaft, for the purpose of raising stampers, lifting rods, or the like, and leaving them to fall by their own weight; a kind of cam.  4. (Firearms)  A rod, or an attachment for a rod, for holding a rag with which to wipe out the bore of the barrel. 

WIRBLE:  To whirl; to eddy. [R.] The waters went wirbling above and around. Owen. Meredith. 

WIRCHE:  To work [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WIREDRAW:  To pass, or to draw off, (as steam) through narrow ports, or the like, thus reducing its pressure or force by friction.  WIRE-DRAWER Wire"-draw`er, n.  One who draws metal into wire.  WIRE GUN Wire gun.  = Wire-wound gun.  WIRE-HEEL Wire"-heel`, n. (Far.)  A disease in the feet of a horse or other beast. 

WIRELESS:  Having no wire; specif. (Elec.),  designating, or pertaining to, a method of telegraphy, telephony, etc., in which the messages, etc., are transmitted through space by electric waves; as, a wireless message. -- Wireless telegraphy or telegraph (Elec.), any system of telegraphy employing no connecting wire or wires between the transmitting and receiving stations. Although more or less successful researchers were made on the subject by Joseph Henry, Hertz, Oliver Lodge, and others, the first commercially successful system was that of Guglielmo Marconi, patented in March, 1897. Marconi employed electric waves of high frequency set up by an induction coil in an oscillator, these waves being launched into space through a lofty antenna. The receiving apparatus consisted of another antenna in circuit with a coherer and small battery for operating through a relay the ordinary telegraphic receiver. This apparatus contains the essential features of all the systems now in use. -- Wireless telephone, an apparatus or contrivance for wireless telephony. --Wireless telephony, telephony without wires, usually employing electric waves of high frequency emitted from an oscillator or generator, as in wireless telegraphy. A telephone transmitter causes fluctuations in these waves, it being the fluctuations only which affect the receiver. 

WIRELESS:  Short for Wireless telegraphy, Wireless telephony, etc.; as, to send a message by wireless.  WIRE-PULLER Wire"-pull`er, n.  One who pulls the wires, as of a puppet; hence, one who operates by secret means; an intriguer. Political wire-pullers and convention packers. Lowell.  WIRE-PULLING Wire"-pull`ing, n.  The act of pulling the wires, as of a puppet; hence, secret influence or management, especially in politics; intrigue.  WIRE-TAILED Wire"-tailed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having some or all of the tail quills terminated in a long, slender, pointed shaft, without a web or barbules.  WIRE TAPPER Wire tapper.  One that taps, or cuts in on, telegraph wires and intercepts messages; hence (Slang),  a swindler who pretends to tap wires or otherwise intercept advance telegraphic news for betting. -- Wire tapping. 

WIREWORK:  Work, especially openwork, formed of wires.  WIRE-WORKER Wire"-work`er, n.  One who manufactures articles from wire. 

WIREWORM:  A gun in the construction of which an inner tube (either entire or in segments) is wound with wire under tension to insure greater soundness and uniformity of resistance. In modern construction hoops and jackets are shrunk on over the wire. 

WIRINESS:  The quality of being wiry. 

WIS:  Certainly; really; indeed. [Obs.] "As wis God helpe me." Chaucer. 

WIS:  To think; to suppose; to imagine; -- used chiefly in the first person sing. present tense, I wis. See the Note under Ywis. [Obs. or Poetic] "Howe'er you wis." R. Browning. Nor do I know how long it is (For I have lain entranced, I wis). Coleridge. 

WISARD:  See Wizard. 

WISDOM:  The class of ancient Hebrew writings which deal reflectively with general ethical and religious topics, as distinguished from the prophetic and liturgical literature, and from the law. It is comprised chiefly in the books of Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiasticus, Ecclesiastes, and Wisdom of Solomon. The "wisdom" (Hokhmah) of these writings consists in detached sage utterances on concrete issues of life, without the effort at philosophical system that appeared in the later Hellenistic reflective writing beginning with Philo Judæus. 

WISE:  Way of being or acting; manner; mode; fashion. "All armed in complete wise." Spenser. To love her in my beste wyse. Chaucer. This song she sings in most commanding wise. Sir P. Sidney. Let not these blessings then, sent from above, Abused be, or spilt in profane wise. Fairfax.  Note: This word is nearly obsolete, except in such phrases as in any wise, in no wise, on this wise, etc. " Fret not thyself in any wise to do evil." Ps. xxxvii. 8. "He shall in no wise lose his reward." Matt. x. 42. " On this wise ye shall bless the children of Israel." Num. vi. 23.  Note: Wise is often used as a suffix in composition, as in likewise, nowise, lengthwise, etc., in which words -ways is often substituted with the same sense; as, noways, lengthways, etc. 

WISEACRE:  Wise; knowing; skillful; sapient; erudite; prudent. Ex. xxviii. 3.  WISE-LIKE Wise"-like`, a.  Resembling that which is wise or sensible; judicious. The only wise-like thing I heard anybody say. Sir W. Scott. 

WISELING:  One who pretends to be wise; a wiseacre; a witling. Donne. 

WISELY:  In a wise manner; prudently; judiciously; discreetly; with wisdom. And wisely learn to curb thy sorrows wild. Milton. 

WISENESS:  Wisdom. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WISHABLE:  Capable or worthy of being wished for; desirable. Udall. 

WISHBONE:  The forked bone in front of the breastbone in birds; -- called also merrythought, and wishing bone. See Merrythought, and Furculum. 

WISHEDLY:  According to wish; conformably to desire. [Obs.] Chapman. 

WISHER:  One who wishes or desires; one who expresses a wish. Shak. 

WISHING:  a. & n. from Wish, v. t. Wishing bone. See Wishbone.  -- Wishing cap, a cap fabled to give one whatever he wishes for when wearing it. 

WISHLY:  According to desire; longingly; with wishes. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chapman. 

WISHTONWISH:  The prairie dog.  WISH-WASH Wish"-wash`, n.  Any weak, thin drink.  WISHY-WASHY Wish"y-wash`y, a. Etym: [See Wash.]  Thin and pale; weak; without strength or substance; -- originally said of liquids. Fig., weak-minded; spiritless. A weak wishy-washy man who had hardly any mind of his own. A. Trollope.  WISHY-WASHY Wish"y-wash`y, n.  A weak or thin drink or liquor; wish-wash. 

WISKET:  A whisket, or basket. [Prov. Eng.] Ainsworth. 

WISLY:  Certainly. [Obs.] "God so wisly have mercy on me." Chaucer. 

WISPEN:  Formed of a wisp, or of wisp; as, a wispen broom. [Obs.] 

WISSE:  To show; to teach; to inform; to guide; to direct. [Obs.] Ere we depart I shall thee so well wisse That of mine house ne shalt thou never misse. Chaucer. 

WIST:  Knew. 

WISTARIA:  A genus of climbing leguminous plants bearing long, pendulous clusters of pale bluish flowers.  Note: The species commonest in cultivation is the Wistaria Sinensis from Eastern Asia. W. fruticosa grows wild in the southern parts of the United States. 

WISTIT:  A small South American monkey; a marmoset. [Written also wistiti, and ouistiti.] 

WISTLY:  Attentively; observingly. [Obs.] Shak. 

WISTONWISH:  See Wishtonwish. 

WIT:  To know; to learn. "I wot and wist alway." Chaucer.  Note: The present tense was inflected as follows; sing. 1st pers. wot; 2d pers. wost, or wot(t)est; 3d pers. wot, or wot(t)eth; pl. witen, or wite. The following variant forms also occur; pres. sing. 1st & 3d pers. wat, woot; pres. pl. wyten, or wyte, weete, wote, wot; imp. wuste (Southern dialect); p. pr. wotting. Later, other variant or corrupt forms are found, as, in Shakespeare, 3d pers. sing. pres. wots. Brethren, we do you to wit [make you to know] of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. 2 Cor. viii. 1. Thou wost full little what thou meanest. Chaucer. We witen not what thing we prayen here. Chaucer. When that the sooth in wist. Chaucer.  Note: This verb is now used only in the infinitive, to wit, which is employed, especially in legal language, to call attention to a particular thing, or to a more particular specification of what has preceded, and is equivalent to namely, that is to say. 

WITAN:  Lit., wise men; specif. (A.-S. Hist.),  the members of the national, or king's, council which sat to assist the king in administrative and judicial matters; also, the council. 

WITCH:  A cone of paper which is placed in a vessel of lard or other fat, and used as a taper. [Prov. Eng.] 

WITCH:  A certain curve of the third order, described by Maria Agnesi under the name versiera.  5. (Zoöl.)  The stormy petrel. Witch balls, a name applied to the interwoven rolling masses of the stems of herbs, which are driven by the winds over the steppes of Tartary. Cf. Tumbleweed. Maunder (Treas. of Bot.) -- Witches' besoms (Bot.), tufted and distorted branches of the silver fir, caused by the attack of some fungus. Maunder (Treas. of Bot.) -- Witches' butter (Bot.), a name of several gelatinous cryptogamous plants, as Nostoc commune, and Exidia glandulosa. See Nostoc.  -- Witch grass (Bot.), a kind of grass (Panicum capillare) with minute spikelets on long, slender pedicels forming a light, open panicle.  -- Witch meal (Bot.), vegetable sulphur. See under Vegetable. 

WITCH:  To bewitch; to fascinate; to enchant. [I 'll] witch sweet ladies with my words and looks. Shak. Whether within us or without The spell of this illusion be That witches us to hear and see. Lowell. 

WITCHCRAFT:  See Wych-elm. 

WITCHERY:  The wych-elm. (b) An American shrub or small tree (Hamamelis Virginica), which blossoms late in autumn. 

WITCHING:  That witches or enchants; suited to enchantment or witchcraft; bewitching. "The very witching time of night." Shak.  -- Witch"ing*ly, adv.  WITCH-TREE Witch"-tree`, n. (Bot.)  The witch-hazel. 

WITCHUCK:  The sand martin, or bank swallow. [Prov. Eng.]  WIT-CRACKER Wit"-crack`er, n.  One who breaks jests; a joker. [Obs.] Shak. 

WITE:  To reproach; to blame; to censure; also, to impute as blame. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser. Though that I be jealous, wite me not. Chaucer. There if that I misspeak or say, Wite it the ale of Southwark, I you pray. Chaucer. 

WITE:  Blame; reproach. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. 

WITELESS:  Blameless. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WITEN:  pl. pres. of Wit. Chaucer. 

WITENAGEMOTE:  A meeting of wise men; the national council, or legislature, of England in the days of the Anglo-Saxons, before the Norman Conquest. 

WITFISH:  The ladyfish (a). 

WITFUL:  Wise; sensible. [R.] Chapman. 

WITH:  See Withe. 

WITH:  With denotes or expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the like. It is used especially: --  1. To denote a close or direct relation of opposition or hostility; - - equivalent to against. Thy servant will . . . fight with this Philistine. 1 Sam. xvii. 32.  Note: In this sense, common in Old English, it is now obsolete except in a few compounds; as, withhold; withstand; and after the verbs fight, contend, struggle, and the like.  2. To denote association in respect of situation or environment; hence, among; in the company of. I will buy with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so following; but I will not eat with you, drink with you, nor pray with you. Shak. Pity your own, or pity our estate, Nor twist our fortunes with your sinking fate. Dryden. See where on earth the flowery glories lie; With her they flourished, and with her they die. Pope. There is no living with thee nor without thee. Tatler. Such arguments had invincible force with those pagan philosophers. Addison.  3. To denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance, etc.; hence, on the side of. Fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee. Gen. xxvi. 24.  4. To denote the accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes equivalent to by. That with these fowls I be all to-rent. Chaucer. Thou wilt be like a lover presently, And tire the hearer with a book of words. Shak. [He] entertained a coffeehouse with the following narrative. Addison. With receiving your friends within and amusing them without, you lead a good, pleasant, bustling life of it. Goldsmith.  5. To denote association in thought, as for comparison or contrast. Can blazing carbuncles with her compare. Sandys.  6. To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or consequence. With that she told me . . . that she would hide no truth from me. Sir P. Sidney. With her they flourished, and with her they die. Pope. With this he pointed to his face. Dryden.  7. To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as, the firmament with its stars; a bride with a large fortune. "A maid with clean hands." Shak.  Note: With and by are closely allied in many of their uses, and it is not easy to lay down a rule by which to distinguish their uses. See the Note under By. 

WITHAL:  With; -- put after its object, at the end of sentence or clause in which it stands. [Obs.] This diamond he greets your wife withal. Shak. Whatsoever uncleanness it be that a man shall be defiled withal. Lev. v. 3. 

WITHAMITE:  A variety of epidote, of a reddish color, found in Scotland. 

WITHDRAW:  To retire; to retreat; to quit a company or place; to go away; as, he withdrew from the company. "When the sea withdrew." King Horn.  Syn.  -- To recede; retrograde; go back. 

WITHDRAWAL:  The act of withdrawing; withdrawment; retreat; retraction. Fielding. 

WITHDRAWER:  One who withdraws; one who takes back, or retracts.  WITHDRAWING-ROOM With*draw"ing-room`, n. Etym: [See Withdraw, and cf. Drawing-room.]  A room for retirement from another room, as from a dining room; a drawing-room. A door in the middle leading to a parlor and withdrawing-room. Sir W. Scott. 

WITHDRAWMENT:  The act of withdrawing; withdrawal. W. Belsham. 

WITHE:  An iron attachment on one end of a mast or boom, with a ring, through which another mast or boom is rigged out and secured; a wythe. R. H. Dana, Jr.  4. (Arch.)  A partition between flues in a chimney. 

WITHE:  To bind or fasten with withes. You shall see him withed, and haltered, and staked, and baited to death. Bp. Hall. 

WITHERBAND:  A piece of iron in a saddle near a horse's withers, to strengthen the bow. 

WITHERED:  Faded; dried up; shriveled; wilted; wasted; wasted away.  -- With"ered*ness, n. Bp. Hall. 

WITHERING:  Tending to wither; causing to shrink or fade.  -- With"er*ing*ly, adv. 

WITHERITE:  Barium carbonate occurring in white or gray six-sided twin crystals, and also in columnar or granular masses. 

WITHERLING:  A withered person; one who is decrepit. [Obs.] Chapman. 

WITHERNAM:  A second or reciprocal distress of other goods in lieu of goods which were taken by a first distress and have been eloigned; a taking by way of reprisal; -- chiefly used in the expression capias in withernam, which is the name of a writ used in connection with the action of replevin (sometimes called a writ of reprisal), which issues to a defendant in replevin when he has obtained judgment for a return of the chattels replevied, and fails to obtain them on the writ of return. Blackstone.  WITHE-ROD Withe"-rod`, n. (Bot.)  A North American shrub (Viburnum nudum) whose tough osierlike shoots are sometimes used for binding sheaves. 

WITHERS:  The ridge between the shoulder bones of a horse, at the base of the neck. See Illust. of Horse. Let the galled jade wince; our withers are unwrung. Shak.  WITHER-WRUNG With"er-wrung`, a.  Injured or hurt in the withers, as a horse. 

WITHHOLDER:  One who withholds. 

WITHHOLDMENT:  The act of withholding. 

WITHINFORTH:  Within; inside; inwardly. [Obs.] Wyclif. [It is much greater] labor for to withinforth call into mind, without sight of the eye withoutforth upon images, what he before knew and thought upon. Bp. Peacock. 

WITHINSIDE:  In the inner parts; inside. [Obs.] Graves. 

WITHOUT:  Unless; except; -- introducing a clause. You will never live to my age without you keep yourselves in breath with exercise, and in heart with joyfulness. Sir P. Sidney.  Note: Now rarely used by good writers or speakers. 

WITHOUT:  Outdoor; exterior. [Obs.] "Her without-door form." Shak. 

WITHOUTEN:  Without. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WITHOUTFORTH:  Without; outside' outwardly. Cf. Withinforth. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WITHSAY:  To contradict; to gainsay; to deny; to renounce. [Obs.] Gower. If that he his Christendom withsay. Chaucer. 

WITHSET:  To set against; to oppose. [Obs.] "Their way he them withset." R. of Brunne. 

WITHSTAND:  To stand against; to oppose; to resist, either with physical or moral force; as, to withstand an attack of troops; to withstand eloquence or arguments. Piers Plowman. I withstood him to the face. Gal. ii. 11. Some village Hampden, that, with dauntless breast. The little tyrant of his fields withstood. Gray. 

WITHSTANDER:  One who withstands, or opposes; an opponent; a resisting power. 

WITHSTOOD:  oWithstand. 

WITHVINE:  Quitch grass. 

WITHWIND:  A kind of bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis). He bare a burden ybound with a broad list, In a withewyndes wise ybounden about. Piers Plowman. 

WITHWINE:  Same as Withvine. 

WITHY:  The osier willow (Salix viminalis). See Osier, n. (a).  2. A withe. See Withe, 1. 

WITHY:  Made of withes; like a withe; flexible and tough; also, abounding in withes. The stream is brimful now, and lies high in this little withy plantation. G. Eliot. 

WITING:  Knowledge. [Obs.] "Withouten witing of any other wight." Chaucer. 

WITLESS:  Destitute of wit or understanding; wanting thought; hence, indiscreet; not under the guidance of judgment. "Witless bravery." Shak. A witty mother! witless else her son. Shak. Witless pity breedeth fruitless love. Fairfax. -- Wit"less*ly, adv.  -- Wit"less*ness, n. 

WITLING:  A person who has little wit or understanding; a pretender to wit or smartness. A beau and witing perished in the forming. Pope. Ye newspaper witlings! ye pert scribbling folks! Goldsmith. 

WITNESS:  To see the execution of, as an instrument, and subscribe it for the purpose of establishing its authenticity; as, to witness a bond or a deed. 

WITNESS:  To bear testimony; to give evidence; to testify. Chaucer. The men of Belial witnessed against him. 1 Kings xxi. 13. The witnessing of the truth was then so generally attended with this event [martyrdom] that martyrdom now signifies not only to witness, but to witness to death. South. 

WITNESSER:  One who witness.  WIT-SNAPPER Wit"-snap`per, n.  One who affects repartee; a wit-cracker. [Obs.] Shak.  WIT-STARVED Wit"-starved`, a.  Barren of wit; destitute of genius. Examiner. 

WITTED:  Having (such) a wit or understanding; as, a quick-witted boy. 

WITTICASTER:  A witling. [R.] Milton. 

WITTICISM:  A witty saying; a sentence or phrase which is affectedly witty; an attempt at wit; a conceit. Milton. He is full of conceptions, points of epigram, and witticisms; all which are below the dignity of heroic verse. Addison. 

WITTIFIED:  Possessed of wit; witty. [R.] R. North. 

WITTILY:  In a witty manner; wisely; ingeniously; artfully; with it; with a delicate turn or phrase, or with an ingenious association of ideas. Who his own harm so wittily contrives. Dryden. 

WITTINESS:  The quality of being witty. 

WITTINGLY:  Knowingly; with knowledge; by design. 

WITTOL:  The wheatear. [Prov. Eng.]  2. A man who knows his wife's infidelity and submits to it; a tame cuckold; -- so called because the cuckoo lays its eggs in the wittol's nest. [Obs.] Shak. 

WITTOLLY:  Like a wittol; cuckoldly. [Obs.] Shak. 

WITTS:  Tin ore freed from earthy matter by stamping. Knight. 

WITWORM:  One who, or that which, feeds on or destroys wit. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

WIVE:  To marry, as a man; to take a wife. Wherefore we pray you hastily to wive. Chaucer. 

WIVEHOOD:  Wifehood. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WIVELESS:  Wifeless. [Obs.] Homilies. 

WIVELY:  Wifely. [Obs.] Udall.  WIVER; WIVERN Wiv"er, Wiv"ern, n. Etym: [OE. wivere a serpent, OF. wivre, guivre, F. givre, guivre, wiver, from L. vipera; probably influenced by OHG. wipera, from the Latin. See Viper, and cf. Weever.]  1. (Her.)  A fabulous two-legged, winged creature, like a cockatrice, but having the head of a dragon, and without spurs. [Written also wyvern.] The jargon of heraldry, its griffins, its mold warps, its wiverns, and its dragons. Sir W. Scott.  2. (Zoöl.)  The weever. 

WIVES:  , pl of Wife. 

WIZARDLY:  Resembling or becoming a wizard; wizardlike; weird. 

WIZARDRY:  The character or practices o "He acquired a reputation bordering on wizardry." J. A. Symonds. 

WIZEN:  To wither; to dry. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

WIZEN:  Wizened; thin; weazen; withered. A little lonely, wizen, strangely clad boy. Dickens. 

WIZEN:  The weasand. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

WIZENED:  Dried; shriveled; withered; shrunken; weazen; as, a wizened old man.  WIZEN-FACED Wiz"en-faced`, a.  Having a shriveled, thin, withered face. 

WLATSOME:  Loathsome; disgusting; hateful. [Obs.] Murder is . . . wlatsom and abhominable to God. Chaucer. 

WO:  See Woe. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WOAD:  An herbaceous cruciferous plant (Isatis tinctoria). It was formerly cultivated for the blue coloring matter derived from its leaves.  2. A blue dyestuff, or coloring matter, consisting of the powdered and fermented leaves of the Isatis tinctoria. It is now superseded by indigo, but is somewhat used with indigo as a ferment in dyeing. Their bodies . . . painted with woad in sundry figures. Milton. Wild woad (Bot.), the weld (Reseda luteola). See Weld.  -- Woad mill, a mill grinding and preparing woad. 

WOADED:  Colored or stained with woad. "Man tattoed or woaded, winter- clad in skins." Tennyson.  WOAD-WAXEN Woad"-wax`en, n. Etym: [Cf. Wood-wax.] (Bot.)  A leguminous plant (Genista tinctoria) of Europe and Russian Asia, and adventitious in America; -- called also greenwood, greenweed, dyer's greenweed, and whin, wood-wash, wood-wax, and wood- waxen. 

WOALD:  See Weld. 

WOBBLE:  See Wabble. 

WODE:  Mad. See Wood, a. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. 

WODE:  Wood. Chaucer. 

WODEGELD:  A geld, or payment, for wood. Burrill. 

WODEN:  A deity corresponding to Odin, the supreme deity of the Scandinavians. Wednesday is named for him. See Odin. 

WOE:  Woeful; sorrowful. [Obs.] His clerk was woe to do that deed. Robert of Brunne. Woe was this knight and sorrowfully he sighed. Chaucer. And looking up he waxed wondrous woe. Spenser.  WOE-BEGONE Woe"-be*gone`, a. Etym: [OE. wo begon. See Woe, and Begone, p. p.]  Beset or overwhelmed with woe; immersed in grief or sorrow; woeful. Chaucer. So woe-begone was he with pains of love. Fairfax.  WOEFUL; WOFUL Woe"ful, Wo"ful, a.  1. Full of woe; sorrowful; distressed with grief or calamity; afflicted; wretched; unhappy; sad. How many woeful widows left to bow To sad disgrace! Daniel.  2. Bringing calamity, distress, or affliction; as, a woeful event; woeful want. O woeful day! O day of woe! Philips.  3. Wretched; paltry; miserable; poor. What woeful stuff this madrigal would be! Pope.  WOEFULLY; WOFULLY Woe"ful*ly, Wo"ful*ly, adv.  In a woeful manner; sorrowfully; mournfully; miserably; dolefully.  WOEFULNESS; WOFULNESS Woe"ful*ness, Wo"ful*ness, n.  The quality or state of being woeful; misery; wretchedness. 

WOESOME:  Woeful. [Obs.] Langhorne. 

WOKE:  Wake. 

WOL:  See 2d Will. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WOLD:  See Weld. 

WOLDE:  imp. of Will. See Would. 

WOLF:  Any one of several species of wild and savage carnivores belonging to the genus Canis and closely allied to the common dog. The best-known and most destructive species are the European wolf (Canis lupus), the American gray, or timber, wolf (C. occidentalis), and the prairie wolf, or coyote. Wolves often hunt in packs, and may thus attack large animals and even man.  2. (Zoöl.)  One of the destructive, and usually hairy, larvæ of several species of beetles and grain moths; as, the bee wolf.  3. Fig.: Any very ravenous, rapacious, or destructive person or thing; especially, want; starvation; as, they toiled hard to keep the wolf from the door.  4. A white worm, or maggot, which infests granaries.  5. An eating ulcer or sore. Cf. Lupus. [Obs.] If God should send a cancer upon thy face, or a wolf into thy side. Jer. Taylor.  6. (Mus.) (a) The harsh, howling sound of some of the chords on an organ or piano tuned by unequal temperament. (b) In bowed instruments, a harshness due to defective vibration in certain notes of the scale.  7. (Textile Manuf.)  A willying machine. Knight. Black wolf. (Zoöl.) (a) A black variety of the European wolf which is common in the Pyrenees. (b) A black variety of the American gray wolf.  -- Golden wolf (Zoöl.), the Thibetan wolf (Canis laniger); -- called also chanco.  -- Indian wolf (Zoöl.), an Asiatic wolf (Canis pallipes) which somewhat resembles a jackal. Called also landgak.  -- Prairie wolf (Zoöl.), the coyote.  -- Sea wolf. (Zoöl.) See in the Vocabulary.  -- Strand wolf (Zoöl.) the striped hyena.  -- Tasmanian wolf (Zoöl.), the zebra wolf.  -- Tiger wolf (Zoöl.), the spotted hyena.  -- To keep the wolf from the door, to keep away poverty; to prevent starvation. See Wolf, 3, above. Tennyson.  -- Wolf dog. (Zoöl.) (a) The mastiff, or shepherd dog, of the Pyrenees, supposed by some authors to be one of the ancestors of the St. Bernard dog. (b) The Irish greyhound, supposed to have been used formerly by the Danes for chasing wolves. (c) A dog bred between a dog and a wolf, as the Eskimo dog.  -- Wolf eel (Zoöl.), a wolf fish.  -- Wolf fish (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large, voracious marine fishes of the genus Anarrhichas, especially the common species (A. lupus) of Europe and North America. These fishes have large teeth and powerful jaws. Called also catfish, sea cat, sea wolf, stone biter, and swinefish.  -- Wolf net, a kind of net used in fishing, which takes great numbers of fish.  -- Wolf's peach (Bot.), the tomato, or love apple (Lycopersicum esculentum).  -- Wolf spider (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of running ground spiders belonging to the genus Lycosa, or family Lycosidæ. These spiders run about rapidly in search of their prey. Most of them are plain brown or blackish in color. See Illust. in App.  -- Zebra wolf (Zoöl.), a savage carnivorous marsupial (Thylacinus cynocephalus) native of Tasmania; -- called also Tasmanian wolf. 

WOLFBERRY:  An American shrub (Symphoricarpus occidentalis) which bears soft white berries. 

WOLFFIAN:  Discovered, or first described, by Caspar Friedrich Wolff (1733-1794), the founder of modern embryology. Wolffian body, the mesonephros.  -- Wolffian duct, the duct from the Wolffian body. 

WOLFHOUND:  Originally, a large hound used in hunting wolves; now, any one of certain breeds of large dogs, some of which are nearly identical with the great Danes. 

WOLFISH:  Like a wolf; having the qualities or form of a wolf; as, a wolfish visage; wolfish designs.  -- Wolf"ish*ly, adv.  -- Wolf"ish*ness, n. 

WOLFKIN:  A little or young wolf. Tennyson. 

WOLFLING:  A young wolf. Carlyle. 

WOLFRAM:  Same as Wolframite. 

WOLFRAMATE:  A salt of wolframic acid; a tungstate. 

WOLFRAMIC:  Of or pertaining to wolframium. See Tungstic. 

WOLFRAMITE:  Tungstate of iron and manganese, generally of a brownish or grayish black color, submetallic luster, and high specific gravity. It occurs in cleavable masses, and also crystallized. Called also wolfram. 

WOLFRAMIUM:  The technical name of the element tungsten. See Tungsten.  WOLFRAM STEEL Wol"fram steel.  Same as Tungsten steel. 

WOLFSBANE:  A poisonous plant (Aconitum Lycoctonum), a kind of monkshood; also, by extension, any plant or species of the genus Aconitum. See Aconite.  WOLF'S-CLAW Wolf's"-claw`, n. (Bot.)  A kind of club moss. See Lycopodium.  WOLF'S-FOOT Wolf's"-foot`, n. (Bot.)  Club moss. See Lycopodium.  WOLF'S-MILK Wolf's"-milk`, n. (Bot.)  Any kind of spurge (Euphorbia); -- so called from its acrid milky juice. 

WOLL:  See 2d Will. [Obs.] 

WOLLASTONITE:  A silicate of lime of a white to gray, red, or yellow color, occurring generally in cleavable masses, rarely in tabular crystals; tabular spar.  WOLLASTON'S DOUBLET Wol"las*ton's dou"blet. [After W. H. Wollaston, English physicist.] (Optics)  A magnifying glass consisting of two plano-convex lenses. It is designed to correct spherical aberration and chromatic dispersion. 

WOLLE:  Wool. [Obs.] Chaucer.  WOLVERENE; WOLVERINE Wol`ver*ene", Wol`ver*ine", n. Etym: [From Wolf, with a dim suffix; prob. so called from its supposed wolfish qualities.]  1. (Zoöl.)  The glutton.  2. A nickname for an inhabitant of Michigan. [U. S.]  WOLVERENE STATE Wol`ver*ene" State.  Michigan; -- a nickname. 

WOLVES:  pl. of Wolf. 

WOLVISH:  Wolfish. Shak. 

WOMAN:  Womanhood. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WOMANISH:  Suitable to a woman, having the qualities of a woman; effeminate; not becoming a man; -- usually in a reproachful sense. See the Note under Effeminate. " Thy tears are womanish." Shak. " Womanish entreaties." Macaulay. A voice not soft, weak, piping, and womanish, but audible, strong, and manlike. Ascham. -- Wom"an*ish*ly, adv.  -- Wom"an*ish*ness, n. 

WOMANIZE:  To make like a woman; to make effeminate. [Obs.] V. Knox. 

WOMANKIND:  The females of the human race; women, collectively. A sanctuary into which womankind, with her tools of magic, the broom and mop, has very infrequent access. Hawthorne. 

WOMANLESS:  Without a woman or women. 

WOMANLIKE:  Like a woman; womanly. Womanlike, taking revenge too deep. Tennyson. 

WOMANLINESS:  The quality or state of being womanly. There is nothing wherein their womanliness is more honestly garnished than with silence. Udall. 

WOMANLY:  Becoming a woman; feminine; as, womanly behavior. Arbuthnot. A blushing, womanly discovering grace. Donne. 

WOMANLY:  In the manner of a woman; with the grace, tenderness, or affection of a woman. Gascoigne.  WOMAN'S CHRISTIAN TEMPERANCE UNION Woman's Christian Temperance Union.  An association of women formed in the United States in 1874, for the advancement of temperance by organizing preventive, educational, evangelistic, social, and legal work. 

WOMB:  The uterus. See Uterus.  3. The place where anything is generated or produced. The womb of earth the genial seed receives. Dryden.  4. Any cavity containing and enveloping anything. The center spike of gold Which burns deep in the bluebell's womb. R. Browning. 

WOMB:  To inclose in a womb, or as in a womb; to breed or hold in secret. [Obs.] Shak. 

WOMBAT:  Any one of three species of Australian burrowing marsupials of the genus Phascolomys, especially the common species (P. ursinus). They are nocturnal in their habits, and feed mostly on roots. 

WOMBY:  Capacious. [Obs.] Shak. 

WOMEN:  pl. of Woman. 

WON:  imp. & p. p. of Win. 

WON:  To dwell or abide. [Obs. or Scot.] " Where he wans in forest wild." Milton. This land where I have woned thus long. Spenser. 

WON:  Dwelling; wone. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WONDER:  Wonderful. [Obs.] Gower. After that he said a wonder thing. Chaucer. 

WONDER:  Wonderfully. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WONDERED:  Having performed wonders; able to perform wonderful things. [Obs.] Shak. 

WONDERER:  One who wonders. 

WONDERFUL:  Adapted to excite wonder or admiration; surprising; strange; astonishing.  Syn.  -- Marvelous; amazing. See Marvelous.  -- Won"der*ful*ly, adv.  -- Won"der*ful*ness, n. 

WONDERINGLY:  In a wondering manner. 

WONDERLAND:  A land full of wonders, or marvels. M. Arnold. 

WONDERLY:  Wonderfully; wondrously. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WONDERMENT:  Surprise; astonishment; a wonderful appearance; a wonder. Bacon. All the common sights they view, Their wonderment engage. Sir W. Scott. 

WONDEROUS:  Same as Wondrous. 

WONDERS:  See Wondrous. [Obs.] They be wonders glad thereof. Sir T. More. 

WONDERSTRUCK:  Struck with wonder, admiration, or surprise. Dryden. 

WONDERWORK:  A wonderful work or act; a prodigy; a miracle. Such as in strange land He found in wonderworks of God and Nature's hand. Byron.  WONDER-WORKER Won"der-work`er, n.  One who performs wonders, or miracles.  WONDER-WORKING Won"der-work`ing, a.  Doing wonders or surprising things. 

WONDROUS:  In a wonderful or surprising manner or degree; wonderfully. For sylphs, yet mindful of their ancient race, Are, as when women, wondrous fond of place. Pope. And now there came both mist and snow, And it grew wondrous cold. Coleridge. 

WONDROUS:  Wonderful; astonishing; admirable; marvelous; such as excite surprise and astonishment; strange. That I may . . . tell of all thy wondrous works. Ps. xxvi. 7. -- Won"drous*ly, adv.  -- Won"drous*ness, n. Chloe complains, and wondrously's aggrieved. Granville. 

WONE:  To dwell; to abide. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. Their habitation in which they woned. Chaucer. 

WONG:  A field. [Obs.] Spelman. "Woods and wonges." Havelok the Dane. 

WONGER:  See Wanger. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WONING:  Dwelling. [Obs.] Chaucer.  WON'T Won't.  A colloquial contraction of woll not. Will not. See Will.  Note: Often pronounced wûnt in New England. 

WONT:  Using or doing customarily; accustomed; habituated; used. "As he was wont to go." Chaucer. If the ox were wont to push with his horn. Ex. xxi. 29. 

WONT:  Custom; habit; use; usage. They are . . . to be called out to their military motions, under sky or covert, according to the season, as was the Roman wont. Milton. From childly wont and ancient use. Cowper. 

WONT:  To be accustomed or habituated; to be used. A yearly solemn feast she wont to make. Spenser. 

WONT:  To accustom; -- used reflexively. 

WONTED:  Accustomed; customary; usual. Again his wonted weapon proved. Spenser. Like an old piece of furniture left alone in its wonted corner. Sir W. Scott. She was wonted to the place, and would not remove. L'Estrange. 

WONTEDNESS:  The quality or state of being accustomed. [R.] Eikon Basilike. 

WONTLESS:  Unaccustomed. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WOO:  To court; to make love. Dryden. 

WOOD:  Mad; insane; possessed; rabid; furious; frantic. [Obs.] [Written also wode.] Our hoste gan to swear as [if] he were wood. Chaucer. 

WOOD:  To grow mad; to act like a madman; to mad. Chaucer. 

WOOD:  The fibrous material which makes up the greater part of the stems and branches of trees and shrubby plants, and is found to a less extent in herbaceous stems. It consists of elongated tubular or needle-shaped cells of various kinds, usually interwoven with the shinning bands called silver grain.  Note: Wood consists chiefly of the carbohydrates cellulose and lignin, which are isomeric with starch.  4. Trees cut or sawed for the fire or other uses. Wood acid, Wood vinegar (Chem.), a complex acid liquid obtained in the dry distillation of wood, and containing large quantities of acetic acid; hence, specifically, acetic acid. Formerly called pyroligneous acid.  -- Wood anemone (Bot.), a delicate flower (Anemone nemorosa) of early spring; -- also called windflower. See Illust. of Anemone.  -- Wood ant (Zoöl.), a large ant (Formica rufa) which lives in woods and forests, and constructs large nests.  -- Wood apple (Bot.). See Elephant apple, under Elephant.  -- Wood baboon (Zoöl.), the drill.  -- Wood betony. (Bot.) (a) Same as Betony. (b) The common American lousewort (Pedicularis Canadensis), a low perennial herb with yellowish or purplish flowers.  -- Wood borer. (Zoöl.) (a) The larva of any one of numerous species of boring beetles, esp. elaters, longicorn beetles, buprestidans, and certain weevils. See Apple borer, under Apple, and Pine weevil, under Pine. (b) The larva of any one of various species of lepidopterous insects, especially of the clearwing moths, as the peach-tree borer (see under Peach), and of the goat moths. (c) The larva of various species of hymenopterous of the tribe Urocerata. See Tremex. (d) Any one of several bivalve shells which bore in wood, as the teredos, and species of Xylophaga. (e) Any one of several species of small Crustacea, as the Limnoria, and the boring amphipod (Chelura terebrans).  -- Wood carpet, a kind of floor covering made of thin pieces of wood secured to a flexible backing, as of cloth. Knight.  -- Wood cell (Bot.), a slender cylindrical or prismatic cell usually tapering to a point at both ends. It is the principal constituent of woody fiber.  -- Wood choir, the choir, or chorus, of birds in the woods. [Poetic] Coleridge.  -- Wood coal, charcoal; also, lignite, or brown coal.  -- Wood cricket (Zoöl.), a small European cricket (Nemobius sylvestris).  -- Wood culver (Zoöl.), the wood pigeon.  -- Wood cut, an engraving on wood; also, a print from such an engraving.  -- Wood dove (Zoöl.), the stockdove.  -- Wood drink, a decoction or infusion of medicinal woods.  -- Wood duck (Zoöl.) (a) A very beautiful American duck (Aix sponsa). The male has a large crest, and its plumage is varied with green, purple, black, white, and red. It builds its nest in trees, whence the name. Called also bridal duck, summer duck, and wood widgeon. (b) The hooded merganser. (c) The Australian maned goose (Chlamydochen jubata).  -- Wood echo, an echo from the wood.  -- Wood engraver. (a) An engraver on wood. (b) (Zoöl.) Any of several species of small beetles whose larvæ bore beneath the bark of trees, and excavate furrows in the wood often more or less resembling coarse engravings; especially, Xyleborus xylographus.  -- Wood engraving. (a) The act or art engraving on wood; xylography. (b) An engraving on wood; a wood cut; also, a print from such an engraving.  -- Wood fern. (Bot.) See Shield fern, under Shield.  -- Wood fiber. (a) (Bot.) Fibrovascular tissue. (b) Wood comminuted, and reduced to a powdery or dusty mass.  -- Wood fretter (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of beetles whose larvæ bore in the wood, or beneath the bark, of trees.  -- Wood frog (Zoöl.), a common North American frog (Rana sylvatica) which lives chiefly in the woods, except during the breeding season. It is drab or yellowish brown, with a black stripe on each side of the head.  -- Wood germander. (Bot.) See under Germander.  -- Wood god, a fabled sylvan deity.  -- Wood grass. (Bot.) See under Grass.  -- Wood grouse. (Zoöl.) (a) The capercailzie. (b) The spruce partridge. See under Spruce.  -- Wood guest (Zoöl.), the ringdove. [Prov. Eng.] -- Wood hen. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of Old World short-winged rails of the genus Ocydromus, including the weka and allied species. (b) The American woodcock.  -- Wood hoopoe (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Old World arboreal birds belonging to Irrisor and allied genera. They are closely allied to the common hoopoe, but have a curved beak, and a longer tail.  -- Wood ibis (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large, long- legged, wading birds belonging to the genus Tantalus. The head and neck are naked or scantily covered with feathers. The American wood ibis (Tantalus loculator) is common in Florida.  -- Wood lark (Zoöl.), a small European lark (Alauda arborea), which, like, the skylark, utters its notes while on the wing. So called from its habit of perching on trees.  -- Wood laurel (Bot.), a European evergreen shrub (Daphne Laureola).  -- Wood leopard (Zoöl.), a European spotted moth (Zeuzera æsculi) allied to the goat moth. Its large fleshy larva bores in the wood of the apple, pear, and other fruit trees.  -- Wood lily (Bot.), the lily of the valley.  -- Wood lock (Naut.), a piece of wood close fitted and sheathed with copper, in the throating or score of the pintle, to keep the rudder from rising.  -- Wood louse (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of terrestrial isopod Crustacea belonging to Oniscus, Armadillo, and related genera. See Sow bug, under Sow, and Pill bug, under Pill. (b) Any one of several species of small, wingless, pseudoneuropterous insects of the family Psocidæ, which live in the crevices of walls and among old books and papers. Some of the species are called also book lice, and deathticks, or deathwatches.  -- Wood mite (Zoöl.), any one of numerous small mites of the family Oribatidæ. They are found chiefly in woods, on tree trunks and stones.  -- Wood mote. (Eng. Law) (a) Formerly, the forest court. (b) The court of attachment.  -- Wood nettle. (Bot.) See under Nettle.  -- Wood nightshade (Bot.), woody nightshade.  -- Wood nut (Bot.), the filbert.  -- Wood nymph. (a) A nymph inhabiting the woods; a fabled goddess of the woods; a dryad. "The wood nymphs, decked with daisies trim." Milton. (b) (Zoöl.) Any one of several species of handsomely colored moths belonging to the genus Eudryas. The larvæ are bright-colored, and some of the species, as Eudryas grata, and E. unio, feed on the leaves of the grapevine. (c) (Zoöl.) Any one of several species of handsomely colored South American humming birds belonging to the genus Thalurania. The males are bright blue, or green and blue.  -- Wood offering, wood burnt on the altar. We cast the lots . . . for the wood offering. Neh. x. 34. -- Wood oil (Bot.), a resinous oil obtained from several East Indian trees of the genus Dipterocarpus, having properties similar to those of copaiba, and sometimes substituted for it. It is also used for mixing paint. See Gurjun.  -- Wood opal (Min.), a striped variety of coarse opal, having some resemblance to wood.  -- Wood paper, paper made of wood pulp. See Wood pulp, below.  -- Wood pewee (Zoöl.), a North American tyrant flycatcher (Contopus virens). It closely resembles the pewee, but is smaller.  -- Wood pie (Zoöl.), any black and white woodpecker, especially the European great spotted woodpecker.  -- Wood pigeon. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of Old World pigeons belonging to Palumbus and allied genera of the family Columbidæ. (b) The ringdove.  -- Wood puceron (Zoöl.), a plant louse.  -- Wood pulp (Technol.), vegetable fiber obtained from the poplar and other white woods, and so softened by digestion with a hot solution of alkali that it can be formed into sheet paper, etc. It is now produced on an immense scale.  -- Wood quail (Zoöl.), any one of several species of East Indian crested quails belonging to Rollulus and allied genera, as the red- crested wood quail (R. roulroul), the male of which is bright green, with a long crest of red hairlike feathers.  -- Wood rabbit (Zoöl.), the cottontail.  -- Wood rat (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American wild rats of the genus Neotoma found in the Southern United States; -- called also bush rat. The Florida wood rat (Neotoma Floridana) is the best-known species.  -- Wood reed grass (Bot.), a tall grass (Cinna arundinacea) growing in moist woods.  -- Wood reeve, the steward or overseer of a wood. [Eng.] -- Wood rush (Bot.), any plant of the genus Luzula, differing from the true rushes of the genus Juncus chiefly in having very few seeds in each capsule.  -- Wood sage (Bot.), a name given to several labiate plants of the genus Teucrium. See Germander.  -- Wood screw, a metal screw formed with a sharp thread, and usually with a slotted head, for insertion in wood.  -- Wood sheldrake (Zoöl.), the hooded merganser.  -- Wood shock (Zoöl.), the fisher. See Fisher, 2.  -- Wood shrike (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of Old World singing birds belonging to Grallina, Collyricincla, Prionops, and allied genera, common in India and Australia. They are allied to the true shrikes, but feed upon both insects and berries.  -- Wood snipe. (Zoöl.) (a) The American woodcock. (b) An Asiatic snipe (Gallinago nemoricola).  -- Wood soot, soot from burnt wood.  -- Wood sore. (Zoöl.) See Cuckoo spit, under Cuckoo.  -- Wood sorrel (Bot.), a plant of the genus Oxalis (Oxalis Acetosella), having an acid taste. See Illust. (a) of Shamrock.  -- Wood spirit. (Chem.) See Methyl alcohol, under Methyl.  -- Wood stamp, a carved or engraved block or stamp of wood, for impressing figures or colors on fabrics.  -- Wood star (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small South American humming birds belonging to the genus Calothorax. The male has a brilliant gorget of blue, purple, and other colors.  -- Wood sucker (Zoöl.), the yaffle.  -- Wood swallow (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of Old World passerine birds belonging to the genus Artamus and allied genera of the family Artamidæ. They are common in the East Indies, Asia, and Australia. In form and habits they resemble swallows, but in structure they resemble shrikes. They are usually black above and white beneath.  -- Wood tapper (Zoöl.), any woodpecker.  -- Wood tar. See under Tar.  -- Wood thrush, (Zoöl.) (a) An American thrush (Turdus mustelinus) noted for the sweetness of its song. See under Thrush. (b) The missel thrush.  -- Wood tick. See in Vocabulary.  -- Wood tin. (Min.). See Cassiterite.  -- Wood titmouse (Zoöl.), the goldcgest.  -- Wood tortoise (Zoöl.), the sculptured tortoise. See under Sculptured.  -- Wood vine (Bot.), the white bryony.  -- Wood vinegar. See Wood acid, above.  -- Wood warbler. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of American warblers of the genus Dendroica. See Warbler. (b) A European warbler (Phylloscopus sibilatrix); -- called also green wren, wood wren, and yellow wren.  -- Wood worm (Zoöl.), a larva that bores in wood; a wood borer.  -- Wood wren. (Zoöl.) (a) The wood warbler. (b) The willow warbler. 

WOOD:  To supply with wood, or get supplies of wood for; as, to wood a steamboat or a locomotive. 

WOOD:  To take or get a supply of wood. 

WOODBIND:  Woodbine. Dryden. A garland . . . of woodbind or hawthorn leaves. Chaucer. 

WOODBINE:  Incumbered with tall, woody hedgerows.  WOODBURY-TYPE Wood"bur*y-type`, n. Etym: [After the name of the inventor, W. Woodbury.]  1. A process in photographic printing, in which a relief pattern in gelatin, which has been hardened after certain operations, is pressed upon a plate of lead or other soft metal. An intaglio impression in thus produced, from which pictures may be directly printed, but by a slower process than in common printing.  2. A print from such a plate. 

WOODCHUCK:  A common large North American marmot (Arctomys monax). It is usually reddish brown, more or less grizzled with gray. It makes extensive burrows, and is often injurious to growing crops. Called also ground hog.  2. (Zoöl.)  The yaffle, or green woodpecker. [Prov. Eng.] 

WOODCOCK:  Any one of several species of long-billed limicoline birds belonging to the genera Scolopax and Philohela. They are mostly nocturnal in their habits, and are highly esteemed as game birds.  Note: The most important species are the European (Scolopax rusticola) and the American woodcock (Philohela minor), which agree very closely in appearance and habits.  2. Fig.: A simpleton. [Obs.] If I loved you not, I would laugh at you, and see you Run your neck into the noose, and cry, "A woodcock!" Beau. & Fl. Little woodcock. (a) The common American snipe. (b) The European snipe.  -- Sea woodcock fish, the bellows fish.  -- Woodcock owl, the short-eared owl (Asio brachyotus).  -- Woodcock shell, the shell of certain mollusks of the genus Murex, having a very long canal, with or without spines.  -- Woodcock snipe. See under Snipe. 

WOODCRACKER:  The nuthatch. [Prov. Eng.] 

WOODCRAFT:  Skill and practice in anything pertaining to the woods, especially in shooting, and other sports in the woods. Men of the glade and forest! leave Your woodcraft for the field of fight. Bryant. 

WOODCUT:  An engraving on wood; also, a print from it. Same as Wood cut, under Wood. 

WOODED:  Supplied or covered with wood, or trees; as, land wooded and watered. The brook escaped from the eye down a deep and wooded dell. Sir W. Scott. 

WOODENLY:  Clumsily; stupidly; blockishly. R. North. 

WOODENNESS:  Quality of being wooden; clumsiness; stupidity; blockishness. We set our faces against the woodenness which then characterized German philology. Sweet.  WOOD GUM Wood gum. (Chem.)  Xylan.  WOODHACK; WOODHACKER Wood"hack`, Wood"hack`er, n. (Zoöl.)  The yaffle. [Prov. Eng.] 

WOODHEWER:  A woodpecker. 

WOODHOLE:  A place where wood is stored. 

WOODHOUSE:  A house or shed in which wood is stored, and sheltered from the weather.  WOOD HYACINTH Wood hyacinth.  A European squill (Scilla nonscripta) having a scape bearing a raceme of drooping blue, purple, white, or sometimes pink, bell- shaped flowers. 

WOODINESS:  The quality or state of being woody. Evelyn. 

WOODKNACKER:  The yaffle. 

WOODLAND:  Land covered with wood or trees; forest; land on which trees are suffered to grow, either for fuel or timber. Here hills and vales, the woodland and the plain, Here earth and water seem to strive again. Pope. Woodlands and cultivated fields are harmoniously blended. Bancroft. 

WOODLAND:  Of or pertaining to woods or woodland; living in the forest; sylvan. She had a rustic, woodland air. Wordsworth. Like summer breeze by woodland stream. Keble. Woodland caribou. (Zoöl.) See under Caribou. 

WOODLANDER:  A dweller in a woodland.  WOOD-LAYER Wood"-lay`er, n. (Bot.)  A young oak, or other timber plant, laid down in a hedge among the whitethorn or other plants used in hedges. 

WOODLESS:  Having no wood; destitute of wood. Mitford.  -- Wood"less*ness, n. 

WOODLY:  In a wood, mad, or raving manner; madly; furiously. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WOODMEIL:  See Wadmol. 

WOODMONGER:  A wood seller. [Obs.] 

WOODNESS:  Anger; madness; insanity; rage. [Obs.] Spenser. Woodness laughing in his rage. Chaucer.  WOOD-NOTE Wood"-note`, n. Etym: [Wood, n. + note.]  A wild or natural note, as of a forest bird. [R.] Or sweetest Shakespeare, fancy's child, Warble his native wood-notes wild. Milton.  WOOD PARTRIDGE Wood partridge.  (a) Any of several small partridges of Java, Sumatra, Borneo, and neighboring regions belonging to the genera Caloperdix, Rollulus, and Melanoperdix.  (b) The Canada grouse. [Local, U. S.] 

WOODPECK:  A woodpecker. [Obs.] 

WOODPECKER:  Any one of numerous species of scansorial birds belonging to Picus and many allied genera of the family Picidæ.  Note: These birds have the tail feathers pointed and rigid at the tip to aid in climbing, and a strong chisellike bill with which they are able to drill holes in the bark and wood of trees in search of insect larvæ upon which most of the species feed. A few species feed partly upon the sap of trees (see Sap sucker, under Sap), others spend a portion of their time on the ground in search of ants and other insects. The most common European species are the greater spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus major), the lesser spotted woodpecker (D. minor), and the green woodpecker, or yaffle (see Yaffle). The best- known American species are the pileated woodpecker (see under Pileated), the ivory-billed woodpecker (Campephilus principalis), which is one of the largest known species, the red-headed woodpecker, or red-head (Melanerpes erythrocephalus), the red-bellied woodpecker (M. Carolinus) (see Chab), the superciliary woodpecker (M. superciliaris), the hairy woodpecker (Dryobates villosus), the downy woodpecker (D. pubescens), the three-toed, woodpecker (Picoides Americanus), the golden-winged woodpecker (see Flicker), and the sap suckers. See also Carpintero. Woodpecker hornbill (Zoöl.), a black and white Asiatic hornbill (Buceros pica) which resembles a woodpecker in color. 

WOODROCK:  A compact woodlike variety of asbestus.  WOODRUFF; WOODROOF Wood"ruff`, Wood"roof`, n. Etym: [AS. wudurofe. See Wood, n., and cf. Ruff a plaited collar.] (Bot.)  A little European herb (Asperula odorata) having a pleasant taste. It is sometimes used for flavoring wine. See Illust. of Whorl.  WOOD-SARE Wood"-sare`, n. Etym: [Wood + Prov. E. sare for sore.] (Bot.)  A kind of froth seen on herbs. [Obs.]  WOOD-SERE Wood"-sere`, n.  The time when there no sap in the trees; the winter season. [Written also wood-seer.] [Obs.] Tusser. 

WOODSMAN:  A woodman; especially, one who lives in the forest.  WOOD'S METAL Wood's" met"al.  A fusible alloy consisting of one or two parts of cadmium, two parts of tin, four of lead, with seven or eight part of bismuth. It melts at from 66º to 71º C. See Fusible metal, under Fusible. 

WOODSTONE:  A striped variety of hornstone, resembling wood in appearance. 

WOODSY:  Of or pertaining to the woods or forest. [Colloq. U. S.] It [sugar making] is woodsy, and savors of trees. J. Burroughs.  WOOD TICK Wood" tick`. (Zoöl.)  Any one of several species of ticks of the genus Ixodes whose young cling to bushes, but quickly fasten themselves upon the bodies of any animal with which they come in contact. When they attach themselves to the human body they often produce troublesome sores. The common species of the Northern United States is Ixodes unipunctata. 

WOODWALL:  The yaffle. [Written also woodwale, and woodwele.] 

WOODWARD:  An officer of the forest, whose duty it was to guard the woods. 

WOODWARDIA:  A genus of ferns, one species of which (Woodwardia radicans) is a showy plant in California, the Azores, etc.  WOOD-WASH; WOOD-WAX; WOOD-WAXEN Wood"-wash`, Wood"-wax`, Wood"-wax`en, n. Etym: [AS. wuduweaxe.] (Bot.)  Same as Woadwaxen. 

WOODWORK:  Work made of wood; that part of any structure which is wrought of wood. 

WOODWORM:  See Wood worm, under Wood. 

WOOER:  One who wooes; one who courts or solicits in love; a suitor. "A thriving wooer." Gibber. 

WOOFELL:  The European blackbird. "The woofell near at hand that hath a golden bill." Drayton. 

WOOFY:  Having a close texture; dense; as, a woofy cloud. J. Baillie. 

WOOHOO:  The sailfish. 

WOOINGLY:  In a wooing manner; enticingly; with persuasiveness. Shak. 

WOOK:  Woke. Chaucer. 

WOOL:  A sort of pubescence, or a clothing of dense, curling hairs on the surface of certain plants. Dead pulled wool, wool pulled from a carcass.  -- Mineral wool. See under Mineral.  -- Philosopher's wool. (Chem.) See Zinc oxide, under Zinc.  -- Pulled wool, wool pulled from a pelt, or undressed hide.  -- Slag wool. Same as Mineral wool, under Mineral.  -- Wool ball, a ball or mass of wool.  -- Wool burler, one who removes little burs, knots, or extraneous matter, from wool, or the surface of woolen cloth.  -- Wool comber. (a) One whose occupation is to comb wool. (b) A machine for combing wool.  -- Wool grass (Bot.), a kind of bulrush (Scirpus Eriophorum) with numerous clustered woolly spikes.  -- Wool scribbler. See Woolen scribbler, under Woolen, a.  -- Wool sorter's disease (Med.), a disease, resembling malignant pustule, occurring among those who handle the wool of goats and sheep.  -- Wool staple, a city or town where wool used to be brought to the king's staple for sale. [Eng.] -- Wool stapler. (a) One who deals in wool. (b) One who sorts wool according to its staple, or its adaptation to different manufacturing purposes.  -- Wool winder, a person employed to wind, or make up, wool into bundles to be packed for sale. 

WOOLD:  To wind, or wrap; especially, to wind a rope round, as a mast or yard made of two or more pieces, at the place where it has been fished or scarfed, in order to strengthen it. 

WOOLDER:  A stick used to tighten the rope in woolding.  2. (Rope Making)  One of the handles of the top, formed by a wooden pin passing through it. See 1st Top, 2. 

WOOLDING:  Dyed before being made into cloth, in distinction from piece- dyed; ingrain. 

WOOLED:  Having (such) wool; as, a fine-wooled sheep. 

WOOLEN:  Cloth made of wool; woollen goods. 

WOOLENET:  A thin, light fabric of wool. [Written also woollenet, woolenette, and woollenette.] 

WOOLERT:  The barn owl. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also oolert, and owlerd.] 

WOOLFELL:  A skin with the wool; a skin from which the wool has not been sheared or pulled. [Written also woolfel.] 

WOOLGATHERING:  Indulging in a vagrant or idle exercise of the imagination; roaming upon a fruitless quest; idly fanciful. 

WOOLGATHERING:  Indulgence in idle imagination; a foolish or useless pursuit or design. His wits were a woolgathering, as they say. Burton. 

WOOLGROWER:  One who raises sheep for the production of wool.  -- Wool"grow`ing, n.  WOOL-HALL Wool"-hall`, n.  A trade market in the woolen districts. [Eng.] 

WOOLHEAD:  The buffel duck. 

WOOLLINESS:  The quality or state of being woolly. 

WOOLLY:  Clothed with a fine, curly pubescence resembling wool. Woolly bear (Zoöl.), the hairy larva of several species of bombycid moths. The most common species in the United States are the salt-marsh caterpillar (see under Salt), the black and red woolly bear, or larva of the Isabella moth (see Illust., under Isabella Moth), and the yellow woolly bear, or larva of the American ermine moth (Spilosoma Virginica).  -- Woolly butt (Bot.), an Australian tree (Eucalyptus longifolia), so named because of its fibrous bark.  -- Woolly louse (Zoöl.), a plant louse (Schizoneura, or Erisoma, lanigera) which is often very injurious to the apple tree. It is covered with a dense coat of white filaments somewhat resembling fine wool or cotton. In exists in two forms, one of which infests the roots, the other the branches. See Illust. under Blight.  -- Woolly macaco (Zoöl.), the mongoose lemur.  -- Woolly maki (Zoöl.), a long-tailed lemur (Indris laniger) native of Madagascar, having fur somewhat like wool; -- called also avahi, and woolly lemur.  -- Woolly monkey (Zoöl.), any South American monkey of the genus Lagothrix, as the caparro.  -- Woolly rhinoceros (Paleon.), an extinct rhinoceros (Rhinoceros tichorhinus) which inhabited the arctic regions, and was covered with a dense coat of woolly hair. It has been found frozen in the ice of Siberia, with the flesh and hair well preserved.  WOOLLY-HEAD Wool"ly-head`, n.  A negro. [Low] 

WOOLMAN:  One who deals in wool. 

WOOLPACK:  A pack or bag of wool weighing two hundred and forty pounds. 

WOOLSACK:  A sack or bag of wool; specifically, the seat of the lord chancellor of England in the House of Lords, being a large, square sack of wool resembling a divan in form. 

WOOLSEY:  Linsey-woolsey. 

WOOLSTOCK:  A heavy wooden hammer for milling cloth. 

WOOLWARD:  In wool; with woolen raiment next the skin. [Obs.]  WOOLWARD-GOING Wool"ward-go`ing, n.  A wearing of woolen clothes next the skin as a matter of penance. [Obs.] Their . . . woolward-going, and rising at midnight. Tyndale. 

WOON:  Dwelling. See Wone. [Obs.] 

WOORALI:  Same as Curare. 

WOOSY:  Oozy; wet. [Obs.] Drayton. 

WOOTZ:  A species of steel imported from the East Indies, valued for making edge tools; Indian steel. It has in combination a minute portion of alumina and silica. 

WOOYEN:  See Yuen. 

WOPEN:  Wept. Chaucer. 

WORBLE:  See Wormil. 

WORD:  Talk; discourse; speech; language. Why should calamity be full of words Shak. Be thy words severe; Sharp as he merits, but the sword forbear. Dryden.  4. Account; tidings; message; communication; information; -- used only in the singular. I pray you . . . bring me word thither How the world goes. Shak.  5. Signal; order; command; direction. Give the word through. Shak.  6. Language considered as implying the faith or authority of the person who utters it; statement; affirmation; declaration; promise. Obey thy parents; keep thy word justly. Shak. I know you brave, and take you at your word. Dryden. I desire not the reader should take my word. Dryden.  7. pl.  Verbal contention; dispute. Some words there grew 'twixt Somerset and me. Shak.  8. A brief remark or observation; an expression; a phrase, clause, or short sentence. All the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Gal. v. 14. She said; but at the happy word "he lives," My father stooped, re- fathered, o'er my wound. Tennyson. There is only one other point on which I offer a word of remark. Dickens. By word of mouth, orally; by actual speaking. Boyle.  -- Compound word. See under Compound, a.  -- Good word, commendation; favorable account. "And gave the harmless fellow a good word." Pope.  -- In a word, briefly; to sum up.  -- In word, in declaration; in profession. "Let us not love in word, . . . but in deed and in truth." 1 John iii. 8.  -- Nuns of the Word Incarnate (R. C. Ch.), an order of nuns founded in France in 1625, and approved in 1638. The order, which also exists in the United States, was instituted for the purpose of doing honor to the "Mystery of the Incarnation of the Son of God." -- The word, or The Word. (Theol.) (a) The gospel message; esp., the Scriptures, as a revelation of God. "Bold to speak the word without fear." Phil. i. 14. (b) The second person in the Trinity before his manifestation in time by the incarnation; among those who reject a Trinity of persons, some one or all of the divine attributes personified. John i. 1.  -- To eat one's words, to retract what has been said.  -- To have the words for, to speak for; to act as spokesman. [Obs.] "Our host hadde the wordes for us all." Chaucer.  -- Word blindness (Physiol.), inability to understand printed or written words or symbols, although the person affected may be able to see quite well, speak fluently, and write correctly. Landois & Stirling.  -- Word deafness (Physiol.), inability to understand spoken words, though the person affected may hear them and other sounds, and hence is not deaf.  -- Word dumbness (Physiol.), inability to express ideas in verbal language, though the power of speech is unimpaired.  -- Word for word, in the exact words; verbatim; literally; exactly; as, to repeat anything word for word.  -- Word painting, the act of describing an object fully and vividly by words only, so as to present it clearly to the mind, as if in a picture.  -- Word picture, an accurate and vivid description, which presents an object clearly to the mind, as if in a picture.  -- Word square, a series of words so arranged that they can be read vertically and horizontally with like results.  Syn.  -- See Term. 

WORD:  To use words, as in discussion; to argue; to dispute. [R.] 

WORDBOOK:  A collection of words; a vocabulary; a dictionary; a lexicon.  WORD-CATCHER Word"-catch`er, n.  One who cavils at words. 

WORDER:  A speaker. [Obs.] Withlock. 

WORDILY:  In a wordy manner. 

WORDINESS:  The quality or state of being wordy, or abounding with words; verboseness. Jeffrey. 

WORDING:  The act or manner of expressing in words; style of expression; phrasing. It is believed this wording was above his known style. Milton. 

WORDISH:  Respecting words; full of words; wordy. [R.] Sir P. Sidney.  -- Word"ish*ness, n. The truth they hide by their dark woordishness. Sir K. Digby. 

WORDLE:  One of several pivoted pieces forming the throat of an adjustable die used in drawing wire, lead pipe, etc. Knight. 

WORDLESS:  Not using words; not speaking; silent; speechless. Shak.  WORD METHOD Word method. (Education)  A method of teaching reading in which words are first taken as single ideograms and later analyzed into their phonetic and alphabetic elements; -- contrasted with the alphabet and sentence methods. 

WORDPLAY:  A more or less subtle playing upon the meaning of words. 

WORDSMAN:  One who deals in words, or in mere words; a verbalist. [R.] "Some speculative wordsman." H. Bushnell. 

WORE:  imp. of Wear. 

WORE:  imp. of Ware. 

WORK:  Structures in civil, military, or naval engineering, as docks, bridges, embankments, trenches, fortifications, and the like; also, the structures and grounds of a manufacturing establishment; as, iron works; locomotive works; gas works. (d) pl.  The moving parts of a mechanism; as, the works of a watch.  5. Manner of working; management; treatment; as, unskillful work spoiled the effect. Bp. Stillingfleet.  6. (Mech.)  The causing of motion against a resisting force. The amount of work is proportioned to, and is measured by, the product of the force into the amount of motion along the direction of the force. See Conservation of energy, under Conservation, Unit of work, under Unit, also Foot pound, Horse power, Poundal, and Erg. Energy is the capacity of doing work . . . Work is the transference of energy from one system to another. Clerk Maxwell.  7. (Mining)  Ore before it is dressed. Raymond.  8. pl. (Script.)  Performance of moral duties; righteous conduct. He shall reward every man according to his works. Matt. xvi. 27. Faith, if it hath not works, is dead. James ii. 17. Muscular work (Physiol.), the work done by a muscle through the power of contraction.  -- To go to work, to begin laboring; to commence operations; to contrive; to manage. "I 'll go another way to work with him." Shak.  -- To set on work, to cause to begin laboring; to set to work. [Obs.] Hooker.  -- To set to work, to employ; to cause to engage in any business or labor. 

WORKABLE:  Capable of being worked, or worth working; as, a workable mine; workable clay. 

WORKADAY:  See Workyday. 

WORKBAG:  A bag for holding implements or materials for work; especially, a reticule, or bag for holding needlework, and the like. 

WORKBASKET:  A basket for holding materials for needlework, or the like. 

WORKBENCH:  A bench on which work is performed, as in a carpenter's shop. 

WORKBOX:  A box for holding instruments or materials for work. 

WORKDAY:  A day on which work is performed, as distinguished from Sunday, festivals, etc., a working day. 

WORKER:  One of the neuter, or sterile, individuals of the social ants, bees, and white ants. The workers are generally females having the sexual organs imperfectly developed. See Ant, and White ant, under White. 

WORKFELLOW:  One engaged in the same work with another; a companion in work. 

WORKFOLK:  People that labor. 

WORKFUL:  Full of work; diligent. [R.] 

WORKING:  a & n. from Work. The word must cousin be to the working. Chaucer. Working beam. See Beam, n. 10.  -- Working class, the class of people who are engaged in manual labor, or are dependent upon it for support; laborers; operatives; -- chiefly used in the plural.  -- Working day. See under Day, n.  -- Working drawing, a drawing, as of the whole or part of a structure, machine, etc., made to a scale, and intended to be followed by the workmen. Working drawings are either general or detail drawings.  -- Working house, a house where work is performed; a workhouse.  -- Working point (Mach.), that part of a machine at which the effect required; the point where the useful work is done.  WORKING-DAY Work"ing-day, a.  Pertaining to, or characteristic of, working days, or workdays; everyday; hence, plodding; hard-working. O, how full of briers in this working-day world. Shak. 

WORKINGMAN:  A laboring man; a man who earns his daily support by manual labor. 

WORKMANLIKE:  Becoming a workman, especially a skillful one; skillful; well performed. 

WORKMANLY:  Becoming a skillful workman; skillful; well performed; workmanlike. 

WORKMANLY:  In a skillful manner; in a manner becoming a skillful workman. Shak. 

WORKMASTER:  The performer of any work; a master workman. [R.] Spenser.  WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT Workmen's compensation act. (Law)  A statute fixing the compensation that a workman may recover from an employer in case of accident, esp. the British act of 6 Edw. VII. c. 58 (1906) giving to a workman, except in certain cases of "serious and willful misconduct," a right against his employer to a certain compensation on the mere occurrence of an accident where the common law gives the right only for negligence of the employer. 

WORKROOM:  Any room or apartment used especially for labor. 

WORKSHIP:  Workmanship. [R.] 

WORKSHOP:  A shop where any manufacture or handiwork is carried on. 

WORKTABLE:  A table for holding working materials and implements; esp., a small table with drawers and other conveniences for needlework, etc.  WORKWAYS; WORKWISE Work"ways`, Work"wise`, adv.  In a working position or manner; as, a T rail placed workwise, i.e., resting on its base. 

WORKWOMAN:  A woman who performs any work; especially, a woman skilled in needlework. 

WORKYDAY:  A week day or working day, as distinguished from Sunday or a holiday. Also used adjectively. [Written also workiday, and workaday.] [Obs. or Colloq.] Prithee, tell her but a workyday fortune. Shak. 

WORLDLINESS:  The quality of being worldly; a predominant passion for obtaining the good things of this life; covetousness; addictedness to gain and temporal enjoyments; worldly-mindedness. 

WORLDLING:  A person whose soul is set upon gaining temporal possessions; one devoted to this world and its enjoyments. A foutre for the world and worldlings base. Shak. If we consider the expectations of futurity, the worldling gives up the argument. Rogers. And worldlings blot the temple's gold. Keble. 

WORLDLY:  With relation to this life; in a worldly manner. Subverting worldly strong and worldly wise By simply meek. Milton.  WORLDLY-MINDED World"ly-mind`ed, a.  Devoted to worldly interests; mindful of the affairs of the present life, and forgetful of those of the future; loving and pursuing this world's goods, to the exclusion of piety and attention to spiritual concerns.  -- World"ly*mind`ed*ness, n.  WORLDLYWISE; WORLDLY-WISE World"ly*wise`, World"ly`-*wise`, a.  Wise in regard to things of this world. Bunyan.  WORLD-WIDE World"-wide`, a.  Extended throughout the world; as, world-wide fame. Tennyson. 

WORM:  Same as Vermes.  3. An internal tormentor; something that gnaws or afflicts one's mind with remorse. The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul! Shak.  4. A being debased and despised. I am a worm, and no man. Ps. xxii. 6.  5. Anything spiral, vermiculated, or resembling a worm; as: (a) The thread of a screw. The threads of screws, when bigger than can be made in screw plates, are called worms. Moxon.  (b) A spiral instrument or screw, often like a double corkscrew, used for drawing balls from firearms. (c) (Anat.) A certain muscular band in the tongue of some animals, as the dog; the lytta. See Lytta. (d) The condensing tube of a still, often curved and wound to economize space. See Illust. of Still. (e) (Mach.) A short revolving screw, the threads of which drive, or are driven by, a worm wheel by gearing into its teeth or cogs. See Illust. of Worm gearing, below. Worm abscess (Med.), an abscess produced by the irritation resulting from the lodgment of a worm in some part of the body.  -- Worm fence. See under Fence.  -- Worm gear. (Mach.) (a) A worm wheel. (b) Worm gearing.  -- Worm gearing, gearing consisting of a worm and worm wheel working together.  -- Worm grass. (Bot.) (a) See Pinkroot, 2 (a). (b) The white stonecrop (Sedum album) reputed to have qualities as a vermifuge. Dr. Prior.  -- Worm oil (Med.), an anthelmintic consisting of oil obtained from the seeds of Chenopodium anthelminticum.  -- Worm powder (Med.), an anthelmintic powder.  -- Worm snake. (Zoöl.) See Thunder snake (b), under Thunder.  -- Worm tea (Med.), an anthelmintic tea or tisane.  -- Worm tincture (Med.), a tincture prepared from dried earthworms, oil of tartar, spirit of wine, etc. [Obs.] -- Worm wheel, a cogwheel having teeth formed to fit into the spiral spaces of a screw called a worm, so that the wheel may be turned by, or may turn, the worm; -- called also worm gear, and sometimes tangent wheel. See Illust. of Worm gearing, above. 

WORM:  To work slowly, gradually, and secretly. When debates and fretting jealousy Did worm and work within you more and more, Your color faded. Herbert. 

WORM:  To wind rope, yarn, or other material, spirally round, between the strands of, as a cable; to wind with spun yarn, as a small rope. Ropes . . . are generally wormed before they are served. Totten. To worm one's self into, to enter into gradually by arts and insinuations; as, to worm one's self into favor. 

WORMAL:  See Wormil.  WORM-EATEN Worm"-eat`en, a.  1. Eaten, or eaten into, by a worm or by worms; as, worm-eaten timber. Concave as a covered goblet, or a worm-eaten nut. Shak.  2. Worn-out; old; worthless. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh.  -- Worm"-eat`en*ness, n. [R.] Dr. John Smith. 

WORMED:  Penetrated by worms; injured by worms; worm-eaten; as, wormed timber. 

WORMHOLE:  A burrow made by a worm. 

WORMIAN:  Discovered or described by Olanus Wormius, a Danish anatomist. Wormian bones, small irregular plates of bone often interposed in the sutures between the large cranial bones. 

WORMIL:  Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores. They belong to various species of Hypoderma and allied genera. Domestic cattle are often infested by a large species. See Gadfly. Called also warble, and worble. [Written also wormal, wormul, and wornil.]  2. (Far.)  See 1st Warble, 1 (b). 

WORMLING:  A little worm. O dusty wormling! dost thou strive and stand With heaven's high monarch Sylvester. 

WORMSEED:  Any one of several plants, as Artemisia santonica, and Chenopodium anthelminticum, whose seeds have the property of expelling worms from the stomach and intestines. Wormseed mustard, a slender, cruciferous plant (Erysinum cheiranthoides) having small lanceolate leaves.  WORM-SHAPED Worm"-shaped`, a.  Shaped like a worm; as, a worm-shaped root.  WORM-SHELL Worm"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  Any species of Vermetus. 

WORMUL:  See Wornil. 

WORMWOOD:  A composite plant (Artemisia Absinthium), having a bitter and slightly aromatic taste, formerly used as a tonic and a vermifuge, and to protect woolen garments from moths. It gives the peculiar flavor to the cordial called absinthe. The volatile oil is a narcotic poison. The term is often extended to other species of the same genus.  2. Anything very bitter or grievous; bitterness. Lest there should be among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood. Deut. xxix. 18. Roman wormwood (Bot.), an American weed (Ambrosia artemisiæfolia); hogweed.  -- Tree wormwood (Bot.), a species of Artemisia (probably Artemisia variabilis) with woody stems.  -- Wormwood hare (Zoöl.), a variety of the common hare (Lepus timidus); -- so named from its color. 

WORN:  p. p. of Wear. Worn land, land that has become exhausted by tillage, or which for any reason has lost its fertility. 

WORNIL:  See Wormil.  WORN-OUT Worn"-out`, a.  Consumed, or rendered useless, by wearing; as, worn-out garments.  WORRAL; WORREL Wor"ral, Wor"rel, n. (Zoöl.)  An Egyptian fork-tongued lizard, about four feet long when full grown. 

WORRIER:  One who worries. 

WORRIMENT:  Trouble; anxiety; worry. [Colloq. U. S.] 

WORRISOME:  Inclined to worry or fret; also, causing worry or annoyance. 

WORRIT:  To worry; to annoy. [Illiterate] 

WORRIT:  Worry; anxiety. [Illiterate] 

WORRY:  To feel or express undue care and anxiety; to manifest disquietude or pain; to be fretful; to chafe; as, the child worries; the horse worries. 

WORRY:  A state of undue solicitude; a state of disturbance from care and anxiety; vexation; anxiety; fret; as, to be in a worry. "The whir and worry of spindle and of loom." Sir T. Browne. 

WORRYINGLY:  In a worrying manner. 

WORSE:  Bad, ill, evil, or corrupt, in a greater degree; more bad or evil; less good; specifically, in poorer health; more sick; -- used both in a physical and moral sense. Or worse, if men worse can devise. Chaucer. [She] was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse. Mark v. 26. Evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse. 2 Tim. iii. 13. There are men who seem to believe they are not bad while another can be found worse. Rambler. "But I love him." "Love him Worse and worse." Gay. 

WORSE:  In a worse degree; in a manner more evil or bad. Now will we deal worse with thee than with them. Gen. xix. 9. 

WORSE:  To make worse; to put disadvantage; to discomfit; to worst. See Worst, v. Weapons more violent, when next we meet, May serve to better us and worse our foes. Milton. 

WORSEN:  To grow or become worse. De Quincey. Indifferent health, which seemed rather to worsen than improve. Carlyle. 

WORSER:  Worse. [R.] Thou dost deserve a worser end. Beau. & Fl. From worser thoughts which make me do amiss. Bunyan. A dreadful quiet felt, and, worser far Than arms, a sullen interval of war. Dryden.  Note: This old and redundant form of the comparative occurs occasionally in the best authors, although commonly accounted a vulgarism. It has, at least, the analogy of lesser to sanction its issue. See Lesser. "The experience of man's worser nature, which intercourse with ill-chosen associates, by choice or circumstance, peculiarly teaches." Hallam. 

WORSHIP:  To perform acts of homage or adoration; esp., to perform religious service. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain; and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. John iv. 20. Was it for this I have loved . . . and worshiped in silence Longfellow. 

WORSHIPABILITY:  The quality of being worthy to be worshiped. [R.] Coleridge. 

WORSHIPABLE:  Capable of being worshiped; worthy of worship. [R.] Carlyle. 

WORSHIPER:  One who worships; one who pays divine honors to any being or thing; one who adores. [Written also worshipper.] 

WORSHIPFUL:  Entitled to worship, reverence, or high respect; claiming respect; worthy of honor; -- often used as a term of respect, sometimes ironically. "This is worshipful society." Shak. [She is] so dear and worshipful. Chaucer. -- Wor"ship*ful*ly, adv.  -- Wor"ship*ful*ness, n. 

WORST:  Bad, evil, or pernicious, in the highest degree, whether in a physical or moral sense. See Worse. "Heard so oft in worst extremes." Milton. I have a wife, the worst that may be. Chaucer. If thou hadst not been born the worst of men, Thou hadst been a knave and flatterer. Shak. 

WORST:  That which is most bad or evil; the most severe, pernicious, calamitous, or wicked state or degree. The worst is not So long as we can say, This is the worst. Shak. He is always sure of finding diversion when the worst comes to the worst. Addison. 

WORST:  To gain advantage over, in contest or competition; to get the better of; to defeat; to overthrow; to discomfit. The . . . Philistines were worsted by the captivated ark. South. 

WORST:  To grow worse; to deteriorate. [R.] "Every face . . . worsting." Jane Austen. 

WORT:  A plant of any kind.  Note: This word is now chiefly used in combination, as in colewort, figwort, St. John's-wort, woundwort, etc.  2. pl.  Cabbages. 

WORT:  An infusion of malt which is unfermented, or is in the act of fermentation; the sweet infusion of malt, which ferments and forms beer; hence, any similar liquid in a state of incipient fermentation.  Note: Wort consists essentially of a dilute solution of sugar, which by fermentation produces alcohol and carbon dioxide. 

WORTH:  To be; to become; to betide; -- now used only in the phrases, woe worth the day, woe worth the man, etc., in which the verb is in the imperative, and the nouns day, man, etc., are in the dative. Woe be to the day, woe be to the man, etc., are equivalent phrases. I counsel . . . to let the cat worthe. Piers Plowman. He worth upon [got upon] his steed gray. Chaucer. 

WORTHFUL:  Full of worth; worthy; deserving. Marston. 

WORTHILY:  In a worthy manner; excellently; deservedly; according to merit; justly; suitably; becomingly. You worthily succeed not only to the honors of your ancestors, but also to their virtues. Dryden. Some may very worthily deserve to be hated. South. 

WORTHINESS:  The quality or state of being worthy; desert; merit; excellence; dignity; virtue; worth. Who is sure he hath a soul, unless It see, and judge, and follow worthiness Donne. She is not worthy to be loved that hath not some feeling of her own worthiness. Sir P. Sidney. The prayers which our Savior made were for his own worthiness accepted. Hooker. 

WORTHLESS:  Destitute of worth; having no value, virtue, excellence, dignity, or the like; undeserving; valueless; useless; vile; mean; as, a worthless garment; a worthless ship; a worthless man or woman; a worthless magistrate. 'T is a worthless world to win or lose. Byron. -- Worth"less*ly, adv.  -- Worth"less*ness, n. 

WORTHWHILE:  Worth the time or effort spent. See worth while. worthy.  -- worthwhileness. 

WORTHY:  A man of eminent worth or value; one distinguished for useful and estimable qualities; a person of conspicuous desert; -- much used in the plural; as, the worthies of the church; political worthies; military worthies. The blood of ancient worthies in his veins. Cowper. 

WORTHY:  To render worthy; to exalt into a hero. [Obs.] Shak. 

WOST:  2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WOT:  1st & 3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. See the Note under Wit, v. [Obs.] Brethren, I wot that through ignorance ye did it. Acts iii. 17.  WOTEST; WOTTEST Wot"est, Wot"test,  2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. [Obs.]  WOTETH; WOTTETH Wot"eth, Wot"teth,  3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. [Obs.] "He wotteth neither what he babbleth, nor what he meaneth." Tyndale. 

WOUL:  To howl. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

WOULD:  Commonly used as an auxiliary verb, either in the past tense or in the conditional or optative present. See 2d & 3d Will.  Note: Would was formerly used also as the past participle of Will. Right as our Lord hath would. Chaucer. 

WOULD:  See 2d Weld.  WOULD-BE Would"-be  ' (as, a would-be poet. 

WOULDING:  Emotion of desire; inclination; velleity. [Obs.] Hammond. 

WOULDINGNESS:  Willingness; desire. [Obs.]  WOULFE BOTTLE Woulfe" bot`tle, n. (Chem.)  A kind of wash bottle with two or three necks; -- so called after the inventor, Peter Woulfe, an English chemist. 

WOUND:  imp. & p. p. of Wind to twist, and Wind to sound by blowing. 

WOUND:  An injury to the person by which the skin is divided, or its continuity broken; a lesion of the body, involving some solution of continuity.  Note: Walker condemns the pronunciation woond as a "capricious novelty." It is certainly opposed to an important principle of our language, namely, that the Old English long sound written ou, and pronounced like French ou or modern English oo, has regularly changed, when accented, into the diphthongal sound usually written with the same letters ou in modern English, as in ground, hound, round, sound. The use of ou in Old English to represent the sound of modern English oo was borrowed from the French, and replaced the older and Anglo-Saxon spelling with u. It makes no difference whether the word was taken from the French or not, provided it is old enough in English to have suffered this change to what is now the common sound of ou; but words taken from the French at a later time, or influenced by French, may have the French sound. Wound gall (Zoöl.), an elongated swollen or tuberous gall on the branches of the grapevine, caused by a small reddish brown weevil (Ampeloglypter sesostris) whose larvæ inhabit the galls. 

WOUNDABLE:  Capable of being wounded; vulnerable. [R.] Fuller. 

WOUNDER:  One who, or that which, wounds. 

WOUNDILY:  In a woundy manner; excessively; woundy. [Obs.] 

WOUNDLESS:  Free from wound or hurt; exempt from being wounded; invulnerable. "Knights whose woundless armor rusts." Spenser. [Slander] may miss our name, And hit the woundless air. Shak. 

WOUNDWORT:  Any one of certain plants whose soft, downy leaves have been used for dressing wounds, as the kidney vetch, and several species of the labiate genus Stachys. 

WOUNDY:  Excessive. [Obs.] Such a world of holidays, that 't a woundy hindrance to a poor man that lives by his labor. L'Estrange. 

WOUNDY:  Excessively; extremely. [Obs.] A am woundy cold. Ford. 

WOURALI:  Same as Curare.  WOU-WOU Wou"-wou`, n. Etym: [So called from its cry.] (Zoöl.)  The agile, or silvery, gibbon; -- called also camper. See Gibbon. [Written also wow-wow.] 

WOVE:  p. pr. & rare vb. n. of Weave. 

WOVEN:  p. p. of Weave. Woven paper, or Wove paper, writing paper having an even, uniform surface, without watermarks. 

WOWE:  To woo. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WOWF:  Disordered or unsettled in intellect; deranged. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 

WOWKE:  Week. [Obs.] Chaucer.  WOW-WOW Wow"-wow", n. (Zoöl.)  See Wou-wou. 

WOX:  imp. of Wax. Gower. 

WOXEN:  p. p. of Wax. Chaucer. 

WRACK:  A thin, flying cloud; a rack. 

WRACK:  To rack; to torment. [R.] 

WRACK:  Coarse seaweed of any kind. Wrack grass, or Grass wrack (Bot.), eelgrass. 

WRACK:  To wreck. [Obs.] Dryden. 

WRACKFUL:  Ruinous; destructive. [Obs.]  WRAIN-BOLT Wrain"-bolt`, n.  Same as Wringbolt. 

WRANGLE:  To involve in a quarrel or dispute; to embroil. [R.] Bp. Sanderson. 

WRANGLE:  An angry dispute; a noisy quarrel; a squabble; an altercation.  Syn.  -- Altercation; bickering; brawl; jar; jangle; contest; controversy. See Altercation. 

WRANGLERSHIP:  The honor or position of being a wrangler at the University of Cambridge, England. 

WRANGLESOME:  Contentious; quarrelsome. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.  WRANNOCK; WRANNY Wran"nock, Wran"ny, n. (Zoöl.)  The common wren. [Prov. Eng.] 

WRAP:  To snatch up; transport; -- chiefly used in the p. p. wrapt. Lo! where the stripling, wrapt in wonder, roves. Beattie. 

WRAP:  A wrapper; -- often used in the plural for blankets, furs, shawls, etc., used in riding or traveling. 

WRAPRASCAL:  A kind of coarse upper coat, or overcoat, formerly worn. 

WRASSE:  Any one of numerous edible, marine, spiny-finned fishes of the genus Labrus, of which several species are found in the Mediterranean and on the Atlantic coast of Europe. Many of the species are bright- colored.  Note: Among the European species are the ballan wrasse (Labrus maculatus), the streaked wrasse (L. lineatus), the red wrasse (L. mixtus), the comber wrasse (L. comber), the blue-striped, or cook, wrasse (see Peacock fish, under Peacock), the rainbow wrasse (L. vulgaris), and the seawife. 

WRASTLE:  To wrestle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Who wrastleth best naked, with oil enoint. Chaucer. 

WRATH:  See Wroth. [Obs.] 

WRATH:  To anger; to enrage; -- also used impersonally. [Obs.] "I will not wrathen him." Chaucer. If him wratheth, be ywar and his way shun. Piers Plowman. 

WRATHILY:  In a wrathy manner; very angrily; wrathfully. [Colloq.] 

WRATHLESS:  Free from anger or wrath. Waller. 

WRATHY:  Very angry. [Colloq.] 

WRAW:  Angry; vexed; wrathful. [Obs.] With this speech the cock wex wroth and wraw. Chaucer. 

WRAWFUL:  Ill-tempered. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WRAWL:  To cry, as a cat; to waul. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WRAWNESS:  Peevishness; ill temper; anger. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WRAY:  To reveal; to disclose. [Obs.] To no wight thou shalt this counsel wray. Chaucer. 

WREAK:  To reck; to care. [Obs.] Shak. 

WREAK:  Revenge; vengeance; furious passion; resentment. [Obs.] Shak. Spenser. 

WREAKEN:  p. p. of Wreak. Chaucer. 

WREAKER:  Avenger. [Obs.] The stork, the wrekere of avouterye [adultery]. Chaucer. 

WREAKFUL:  Revengeful; angry; furious. [Obs.] -- Wreak"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] 

WREAKLESS:  Unrevengeful; weak. [Obs.] 

WREATH:  An appendage to the shield, placed above it, and supporting the crest (see Illust. of Crest). It generally represents a twist of two cords of silk, one tinctured like the principal metal, the other like the principal color in the arms. 

WREATHE:  To be intewoven or entwined; to twine together; as, a bower of wreathing trees. Dryden. 

WREATHEN:  Twisted; made into a wreath. "Wreathen work of pure gold." Ex. xxviii. 22. 

WREATHLESS:  Destitute of a wreath.  WREATH-SHELL Wreath"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)  A marine shell of the genus Turbo. See Turbo. 

WREATHY:  Wreathed; twisted; curled; spiral; also, full of wreaths. "Wreathy spires, and cochleary turnings about." Sir T. Browne. 

WRECCHE:  A wretch. [Obs.] 

WRECCHE:  Wretched. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WRECHE:  Wreak. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WRECK:  See 2d & 3d Wreak. 

WRECK:  Goods, etc., which, after a shipwreck, are cast upon the land by the sea. Bouvier. 

WRECKFISH:  A stone bass. 

WRECKFUL:  Causing wreck; involving ruin; destructive. "By wreckful wind." Spenser. 

WRECKING:  a. & n. from Wreck, v. Wrecking car (Railway), a car fitted up with apparatus and implements for removing the wreck occasioned by an accident, as by a collision.  -- Wrecking pump, a pump especially adapted for pumping water from the hull of a wrecked vessel.  WRECK-MASTER Wreck"-mas`ter, n.  A person appointed by law to take charge of goods, etc., thrown on shore after a shipwreck.  WREKE; WREEKE Wreke, Wreeke, v. t.  See 2d Wreak. [Obs.] 

WREN:  Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Troglodytes and numerous allied of the family Troglodytidæ.  Note: Among the species best known are the house wren (Troglodytes aëdon) common in both Europe and America, and the American winter wren (T. hiemalis). See also Cactus wren, Marsh wren, and Rock wren, under Cactus, Marsh, and Rock.  2. (Zoöl.)  Any one of numerous species of small singing birds more or less resembling the true wrens in size and habits.  Note: Among these are several species of European warblers; as, the reed wren (see Reed warbler (a), under Reed), the sedge wren (see Sedge warbler, under Sedge), the willow wren (see Willow warbler, under Willow), the golden-crested wren, and the ruby-crowned wren (see Kinglet). Ant wren, any one of numerous South American birds of the family Formicaridæ, allied to the ant thrushes.  -- Blue wren, a small Australian singing bird (Malurus cyaneus), the male of which in the breeding season is bright blue. Called also superb warbler.  -- Emu wren. See in the Vocabulary.  -- Wren babbler, any one of numerous species of small timaline birds belonging to Alcippe, Stachyris, Timalia, and several allied genera. These birds are common in Southern Asia and the East Indies.  -- Wren tit. See Ground wren, under Ground.  -- Wren warbler, any one of several species of small Asiatic and African singing birds belonging to Prinia and allied genera. These birds are closely allied to the tailor birds, and build their nests in a similar manner. See also Pincpinc. 

WRENCH:  The system made up of a force and a couple of forces in a plane perpendicular to that force. Any number of forces acting at any points upon a rigid body may be compounded so as to be equivalent to a wrench. Carriage wrench, a wrench adapted for removing or tightening the nuts that confine the wheels on the axles, or for turning the other nuts or bolts of a carriage or wagon.  -- Monkey wrench. See under Monkey.  -- Wrench hammer, a wrench with the end shaped so as to admit of being used as a hammer. 

WRESTER:  One who wrests. 

WRESTLE:  To wrestle with; to seek to throw down as in wrestling. 

WRESTLE:  A struggle between two persons to see which will throw the other down; a bout at wrestling; a wrestling match; a struggle. Whom in a wrestle the giant catching aloft, with a terrible hug broke three of his ribs. Milton. 

WRESTLER:  One who wrestles; one who is skillful in wrestling. 

WRESTLING:  Act of one who wrestles; specif., the sport consisting of the hand-to-hand combat between two unarmed contestants who seek to throw each other. The various styles of wrestling differ in their definition of a fall and in the governing rules. In Greco-Roman wrestling, tripping and taking hold of the legs are forbidden, and a fall is gained (that is, the bout is won), by the contestant who pins both his opponent's shoulders to the ground. In catch-as-catch-can wrestling, all holds are permitted except such as may be barred by mutual consent, and a fall is defined as in Greco-Roman style. Lancashire style wrestling is essentially the same as catch-as-catch- can. In Cumberland and Westmorland wrestling the contestants stand chest to chest, grasping each other around the body. The one first losing his hold, or touching the ground with any part of his body except his feet, loses the bout. If both fall to the ground at the same time, it is a dogfall, and must be wrestled over. In the Cornwall and Devon wrestling, the wrestlers complete in strong loose linen jackets, catching hold of the jacket, or anywhere above the waist. Two shoulders and one hip, or two hips and one shoulder, must touch the ground to constitute a fall, and if a man is thrown otherwise than on his back the contestants get upon their feet and the bout recommences. 

WRETCHEDLY:  In a wretched manner; miserably; despicable. 

WRETCHFUL:  Wretched. [Obs.] Wyclif. 

WRETCHLESS:  Reckless; hence, disregarded. [Obs.] -- Wretch"less*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Wretch"less*ness, n. [Obs.] Bk. of Com. Prayer. Your deaf ears should listen Unto the wretchless clamors of the poor. J. Webster. 

WREY:  See Wray. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WRIE:  See Wry. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WRIG:  To wriggle. [Obs.] Skelton. 

WRIGGLE:  To move the body to and fro with short, writhing motions, like a worm; to squirm; to twist uneasily or quickly about. Both he and successors would often wriggle in their seats, as long as the cushion lasted. Swift. 

WRIGGLE:  To move with short, quick contortions; to move by twisting and squirming; like a worm. Covetousness will wriggle itself out at a small hole. Fuller. Wriggling his body to recover His seat, and cast his right leg over. Hudibras. 

WRIGGLE:  Wriggling; frisky; pliant; flexible. [Obs.] "Their wriggle tails." Spenser. 

WRIGGLER:  One who, or that which, wriggles. Cowper. 

WRIGHT:  One who is engaged in a mechanical or manufacturing business; an artificer; a workman; a manufacturer; a mechanic; esp., a worker in wood; -- now chiefly used in compounds, as in millwright, wheelwright, etc. He was a well good wright, a carpenter. Chaucer. 

WRIGHTINE:  A rare alkaloid found in the bark of an East Indian apocynaceous tree (Wrightia antidysenterica), and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance. It was formerly used as a remedy for diarrhoea. Called also conessine, and neriine. 

WRING:  To bend or strain out of its position; as, to wring a mast. 

WRING:  To writhe; to twist, as with anguish. 'T is all men's office to speak patience To those that wring under the load of sorrow. Shak. Look where the sister of the king of France Sits wringing of her hands, and beats her breast. Marlowe. 

WRING:  A writhing, as in anguish; a twisting; a griping. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. 

WRINGBOLT:  A bolt used by shipwrights, to bend and secure the planks against the timbers till they are fastened by bolts, spikes, or treenails; -- not to be confounded with ringbolt. 

WRINGING:  a. & n. from Wring, v. Wringing machine, a wringer. See Wringer, 2. 

WRINGSTAFF:  A strong piece of plank used in applying wringbolts. 

WRINKLE:  A winkle. [Local, U.S.] 

WRINKLE:  A notion or fancy; a whim; as, to have a new wrinkle. [Colloq.] 

WRINKLE:  To shrink into furrows and ridges. 

WRINKLY:  Full of wrinkles; having a tendency to be wrinkled; corrugated; puckered. G. Eliot. His old wrinkly face grew quite blown out at last. Carlyle. 

WRIST:  The joint, or the region of the joint, between the hand and the arm; the carpus. See Carpus. He took me by the wrist, and held me hard. Shak.  2. (Mach.)  A stud or pin which forms a journal; -- also called wrist pin. Bridle wrist, the wrist of the left hand, in which a horseman holds the bridle.  -- Wrist clonus. Etym: [NL. clonus, fr. Gr. Clonic.] (Med.) A series of quickly alternating movements of flexion and extension of the wrist, produced in some cases of nervous disease by suddenly bending the hand back upon the forearm.  -- Wrist drop (Med.), paralysis of the extensor muscles of the hand, affecting the hand so that when an attempt is made to hold it out in line with the forearm with the palm down, the hand drops. It is chiefly due to plumbism. Called also hand drop.  -- Wrist plate (Steam Engine), a swinging plate bearing two or more wrists, for operating the valves. 

WRISTBAND:  The band of the sleeve of a shirt, or other garment, which covers the wrist. 

WRISTER:  A covering for the wrist. 

WRISTLET:  An elastic band worn around the wrist, as for the purpose of securing the upper part of a glove. 

WRIT:  3d pers. sing. pres. of Write, for writeth. Chaucer. 

WRIT:  imp. & p. p. of Write. Dryden. 

WRIT:  An instrument in writing, under seal, in an epistolary form, issued from the proper authority, commanding the performance or nonperformance of some act by the person to whom it is directed; as, a writ of entry, of error, of execution, of injunction, of mandamus, of return, of summons, and the like.  Note: Writs are usually witnessed, or tested, in the name of the chief justice or principal judge of the court out of which they are issued; and those directed to a sheriff, or other ministerial officer, require him to return them on a day specified. In former English law and practice, writs in civil cases were either original or judicial; the former were issued out of the Court of Chancery, under the great seal, for the summoning of a defendant to appear, and were granted before the suit began and in order to begin the same; the latter were issued out of the court where the original was returned, after the suit was begun and during the pendency of it. Tomlins. Brande. Encyc. Brit. The term writ is supposed by Mr. Reeves to have been derived from the fact of these formulæ having always been expressed in writing, being, in this respect, distinguished from the other proceedings in the ancient action, which were conducted orally. Writ of account, Writ of capias, etc. See under Account, Capias, etc.  -- Service of a writ. See under Service. 

WRITABILITY:  Ability or capacity to write. [R.] Walpole. 

WRITABLE:  Capable of, or suitable for, being written down. 

WRITATIVE:  Inclined to much writing; -- correlative to talkative. [R.] Pope. 

WRITERSHIP:  The office of a writer. 

WRITHE:  To twist or contort the body; to be distorted; as, to writhe with agony. Also used figuratively. After every attempt, he felt that he had failed, and writhed with shame and vexation. Macaulay. 

WRITHEN:  Having a twisted distorted from. A writhen staff his step unstable guides. Fairfax. 

WRITHLE:  To wrinkle. [Obs.] Shak. 

WRITTEN:  p. p. of Write, v. 

WRIZZLE:  To wrinkle. [Obs.] Spenser. 

WROKEN:  p. p. of Wreak. Chaucer. 

WRONG:  imp. of Wring. Wrung. Chaucer. 

WRONG:  In a wrong manner; not rightly; amiss; morally ill; erroneously; wrongly. Ten censure wrong for one that writes amiss. Pope. 

WRONG:  That which is not right. Specifically: (a) Nonconformity or disobedience to lawful authority, divine or human; deviation from duty; -- the opposite of moral Ant: right. When I had wrong and she the right. Chaucer. One spake much of right and wrong. Milton.  (b) Deviation or departure from truth or fact; state of falsity; error; as, to be in the wrong. (c) Whatever deviates from moral rectitude; usually, an act that involves evil consequences, as one which inflicts injury on a person; any injury done to, or received from; another; a trespass; a violation of right. Friend, I do thee no wrong. Matt. xx. 18. As the king of England can do no wrong, so neither can he do right but in his courts and by his courts. Milton. The obligation to redress a wrong is at least as binding as that of paying a debt. E. Evereth.  Note: Wrongs, legally, are private or public. Private wrongs are civil injuries, immediately affecting individuals; public wrongs are crimes and misdemeanors which affect the community. Blackstone. 

WRONGDOER:  One who commits a tort or trespass; a trespasser; a tort feasor. Ayliffe. 

WRONGDOING:  Evil or wicked behavior or action. 

WRONGER:  One who wrongs or injures another. Shak. "Wrongers of the world." Tennyson. 

WRONGFUL:  Full of wrong; injurious; unjust; unfair; as, a wrongful taking of property; wrongful dealing.  -- Wrong"ful*ly, adv.  -- Wrong"ful*ness, n. 

WRONGHEAD:  A person of a perverse understanding or obstinate character. [R.] 

WRONGHEAD:  Wrongheaded. [R.] Pope. 

WRONGHEADED:  Wrong in opinion or principle; having a perverse understanding; perverse.  -- Wrong"head`ed*ly, adv.  -- Wrong"head`ed*ness, n. Macaulay. 

WRONGLESS:  Not wrong; void or free from wrong. [Obs.] -- Wrong"less*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. 

WRONGLY:  In a wrong manner; unjustly; erroneously; wrong; amiss; as, he judges wrongly of my motives. "And yet wouldst wrongly win." Shak. 

WRONGNESS:  The quality or state of being wrong; wrongfulness; error; fault. The best great wrongnesses within themselves. Bp. Butler. The rightness or wrongness of this view. Latham. 

WRONGOUS:  Not right; illegal; as, wrongous imprisonment. Craig.  WRONG-TIMED Wrong"-timed`, a.  Done at an improper time; ill-timed. 

WROOT:  imp. of Write. Wrote. Chaucer. 

WROTE:  To root with the snout. See 1st Root. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WROTE:  imp. & archaic p. p. of Write. 

WROTH:  Full of wrath; angry; incensed; much exasperated; wrathful. "Wroth to see his kingdom fail." Milton. Revel and truth as in a low degree, They be full wroth [i. e., at enmity] all day. Chaucer. Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. Gen. iv. 5. 

WROUGHT:  imp. & p. p. of Work. Alas that I was wrought [created]! Chaucer. 

WROUGHT:  Worked; elaborated; not rough or crude. Wrought iron. See under Iron. 

WRUNG:  imp. & p. p. of Wring. 

WRY:  To cover. [Obs.] Wrie you in that mantle. Chaucer. 

WRY:  To twist; to distort; to writhe; to wrest; to vex. Sir P. Sidney. Guests by hundreds, not one caring If the dear host's neck were wried. R. Browning. 

WRYBILL:  See Crookbill. 

WRYMOUTH:  Any one of several species of large, elongated, marine fishes of the genus Cryptacanthodes, especially C. maculatus of the American coast. A whitish variety is called ghostfish. 

WRYNECK:  Any one of several species of Old World birds of the genus Jynx, allied to the woodpeckers; especially, the common European species (J. torguilla); -- so called from its habit of turning the neck around in different directions. Called also cuckoo's mate, snakebird, summer bird, tonguebird, and writheneck. 

WRYNECKED:  Having a distorted neck; having the deformity called wryneck. 

WRYNESS:  The quality or state of being wry, or distorted. W. Montagu. 

WRYTHEN:  Writhen. 

WULFENITE:  Native lead molybdate occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually tabular, and of a bright orange-yellow to red, gray, or brown color; -- also called yellow lead ore. 

WULL:  See 2d Will. Pour out to all that wull. Spenser.  WUNG-OUT Wung"-out`, a.  Having the sails set in the manner called wing-and-wing. [Sailors' slang] 

WURBAGOOL:  A fruit bat (Pteropus medius) native of India. It is similar to the flying fox, but smaller. 

WURMAL:  See Wormil. 

WURRALUH:  The Australian white-quilled honey eater (Entomyza albipennis).  WUST; WUSTE Wust, Wuste, obs.  imp. of Wit. Piers Plowman. 

WYANDOTS:  Same as Hurons. [Written also Wyandottes, and Yendots.]  WYCH-ELM Wych"-elm`, n. Etym: [OE. wiche a kind of elm, AS. wice a kind of tree. Cf. Wicker.] (Bot.)  A species of elm (Ulmus montana) found in Northern and Western Europe; Scotch elm.  Note: By confusion this word is often written witch-elm.  WYCH-HAZEL Wych"-ha`zel, n. (Bot.)  The wych-elm; -- so called because its leaves are like those of the hazel.  WYCLIFITE; WYCLIFFITE Wyc"lif*ite, Wyc"liff*ite, n.  A follower of Wyclif, the English reformer; a Lollard. 

WYD:  Wide. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WYKE:  Week. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

WYLA:  A helmeted Australian cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus funereus); -- called also funeral cockatoo.  WYN; WYNN; WEN Wyn, Wynn, n. Also Wen. [AS. wen.]  One of the runes adopted into the Anglo-Saxon, or Old English, alphabet. It had the value of modern English w, and was replaced from about a. d. 1280 at first by uu, later by w.  X. 

WYND:  A narrow lane or alley. [Scot.] Jamieson. The narrow wynds, or alleys, on each side of the street. Bryant. 

WYNKERNEL:  The European moor hen. [Prov. Eng.] 

WYNN:  A kind of timber truck, or carriage. 

WYPE:  The wipe, or lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] 

WYS:  Wise. [Obs.] Chaucer.  WYTE; WYTEN Wyte, Wy"ten, obs.  pl. pres. of Wit. 

WYTHE:  Same as Withe, n., 4. 

WYVERN:  Same as Wiver. 

X:  X, the twenty-fourth letter of the English alphabet, has three sounds; a compound nonvocal sound (that of ks), as in wax; a compound vocal sound (that of gz), as in example; and, at the beginning of a word, a simple vocal sound (that of z), as in xanthic.  See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 217, 270, 271.  The form and value of X are from the Latin X, which is from the Greek X, which in some Greek alphabets had the value of ks, though in the one now in common use it represents an aspirated sound of k. 

XANTHAMIDE:  An amido derivative of xanthic acid obtained as a white crystalline substance, C2H5O.CS.NH2; -- called also xanthogen amide. 

XANTHATE:  A salt of xanthic; a xanthogenate. 

XANTHELASMA:  See Xanthoma. 

XANTHIAN:  Of or pertaining to Xanthus, an ancient town on Asia Minor; -- applied especially to certain marbles found near that place, and now in the British Museum. 

XANTHIDE:  A compound or derivative of xanthogen. [Archaic] 

XANTHIDIUM:  A genus of minute unicellular algæ of the desmids. These algæ have a rounded shape and are armed with glochidiate or branched aculei. Several species occur in ditches, and others are found fossil in flint or hornstone. 

XANTHIN:  A white microcrystalline nitrogenous compound, C5H4O2N4, present in muscle tissue, in the liver, spleen, pancreas, and other organs, and also in urine (in small quantities) and some urinary calculi, and in the juices of certain plants; -- so called because it leaves a yellow residue when evaporated to dryness with nitric acid. Xanthine is closely related to uric acid. 

XANTHININE:  A complex nitrogenous substance related to urea and uric acid, produced as a white powder; -- so called because it forms yellow salts, and because its solution forms a blue fluorescence like quinine. 

XANTHIUM:  A genus of composite plants in which the scales of the involucre are united so as to form a kind of bur; cocklebur; clotbur.  XANTHO- Xan"tho-.  A combining form from Gr. xanqo`s yellow; as in xanthocobaltic salts. Used also adjectively in chemistry. 

XANTHOCARPOUS:  Having yellow fruit. 

XANTHOCHROI:  A division of the Caucasian races, comprising the lighter- colored members.  The Xanthochroi, or fair whites, . . . are the prevalent inhabitants of Northern Europe, and the type may be traced into North Africa, and eastward as far as Hindostan. Tylor. 

XANTHOCHROIC:  Having a yellowish or fair complexion; of or pertaining to the Xanthochroi. 

XANTHOCHROID:  Having a yellowish or fair complexion. -- n.  A person having xanthochroid traits. 

XANTHOCHROISM:  Abnormal coloration of feathers in which yellow replaces the normal color, as in certain parrots. It is commonly due to lack of the dark pigment which with yellow forms green. 

XANTHODONTOUS:  Having yellow teeth. 

XANTHOGENATE:  A salt of xanthic acid. 

XANTHOGENIC:  Producing a yellow color or compound; xanthic.  See Xanthic acid, under Xanthic. 

XANTHOMA:  A skin disease marked by the development or irregular yellowish patches upon the skin, especially upon the eyelids; -- called also xanthelasma. 

XANTHOMATOUS:  Of or pertaining to xanthoma. 

XANTHOMELANOUS:  Of or pertaining to the lighter division of the Melanochroi, or those races having an olive or yellow complexion and black hair. 

XANTHOPHANE:  The yellow pigment present in the inner segments of the retina in animals.  See Chromophane. 

XANTHOPHYLL:  A yellow coloring matter found in yellow autumn leaves, and also produced artificially from chlorophyll; -- formerly called also phylloxanthin. 

XANTHOPOUS:  Having a yellow stipe, or stem. 

XANTHOPROTEIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, xanthoprotein; showing the characters of xanthoprotein; as, xanthoproteic acid; the xanthoproteic reaction for albumin. 

XANTHOPROTEIN:  A yellow acid substance formed by the action of hot nitric acid on albuminous or proteid matter. It is changed to a deep orange- yellow color by the addition of ammonia. 

XANTHOPUCCINE:  One of three alkaloids found in the root of the yellow puccoon (Hydrastis Canadensis). It is a yellow crystalline substance, and resembles berberine. 

XANTHORHAMNIN:  A glucoside extracted from Persian berries as a yellow crystalline powder, used as a dyestuff. 

XANTHORHIZA:  A genus of shrubby ranunculaceous plants of North America, including only the species Xanthorhiza apiifolia, which has roots of a deep yellow color; yellowroot. The bark is intensely bitter, and is sometimes used as a tonic. 

XANTHORHOEA:  A genus of endogenous plants, native to Australia, having a thick, sometimes arborescent, stem, and long grasslike leaves. See Grass tree. 

XANTHOSE:  An orange-yellow substance found in pigment spots of certain crabs. 

XANTHOSIS:  The yellow discoloration often observed in cancerous tumors. 

XANTHOSPERMOUS:  Having yellow seeds. 

XANTHOUS:  Yellow; specifically (Ethnol.), of or pertaining to those races of man which have yellowish, red, auburn, or brown hair. 

XANTHOXYLENE:  A liquid hydrocarbon of the terpene series extracted from the seeds of a Japanese prickly ash (Xanthoxylum pipertium) as an aromatic oil. 

XANTHOXYLUM:  A genus of prickly shrubs or small trees, the bark and rots of which are of a deep yellow color; prickly ash.  Note: The commonest species in the Northern United States is Xanthoxylum Americanum. See Prickly ash, under Prickly. 

XEBEC:  A small three-masted vessel, with projecting bow stern and convex decks, used in the Mediterranean for transporting merchandise, etc. It carries large square sails, or both. Xebecs were formerly armed and used by corsairs. 

XEME:  An Arctic fork-tailed gull (Xema Sabinii). 

XENELASIA:  A Spartan institution which prohibited strangers from residing in Sparta without permission, its object probably being to preserve the national simplicity of manners. 

XENIUM:  A present given to a guest or stranger, or to a foreign ambassador. 

XENODOCHIUM:  A house for the reception of strangers. (b) In the Middle Ages, a room in a monastery for the reception and entertainment of strangers and pilgrims, and for the relief of paupers. [Called also Xenodocheion.] 

XENODOCHY:  Reception of strangers; hospitality. [R.] 

XENOGAMY:  Cross fertilization. 

XENOGENETIC:  Of or pertaining to xenogenesis; as, the xenogenetic origin of microzymes. Huxley. 

XENOMANIA:  A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, foreign customs, institutions, manners, fashions, etc. [R.] Saintsbury. 

XENOMI:  A suborder of soft-rayed fresh-water fishes of which the blackfish of Alaska (Dallia pectoralis) is the type. 

XENON:  A very heavy, inert gaseous element occurring in the atmosphere in the proportion of one volume is about 20 millions. It was discovered by Ramsay and Travers in 1898. It can be condensed to a liquid boiling at -109º C., and to a solid which volatilizes without melting. Symbol Xe or X; atomic weight 130.2. 

XENOPTERYGII:  A suborder of fishes including Gobiesox and allied genera. These fishes have soft-rayed fins, and a ventral sucker supported in front by the pectoral fins. They are destitute of scales. 

XENOTIME:  A native phosphate of yttrium occurring in yellowish-brown tetragonal crystals. 

XENURINE:  A cabassou. 

XENYL:  The radical characteristic of xenylic compounds. 

XENYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, designating, certain amido compounds obtained by reducing certain nitro derivatives of diphenyl. 

XERAPHIM:  An old money of account in Bombay, equal to three fifths of a rupee. 

XERES:  Sherry. See Sherry. 

XERIF:  A shereef. 

XERIFF:  A gold coin formerly current in Egypt and Turkey, of the value of about 9s. 6d., or about $2.30; -- also, in Morocco, a ducat. 

XERONATE:  A salt of xeronic acid. 

XERONIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4, related to fumaric acid, and obtained from citraconic acid as an oily substance having a bittersweet taste; -- so called from its tendency to form its anhydride. 

XEROPHAGY:  Among the primitive Christians, the living on a diet of dry food in Lent and on other fasts. 

XEROPHILOUS:  Drought-loving; able withstand the absence or lack of moisture. Plants which are peculiarly adapted to dry climates are termed by De Candolle xerophilous. Goodale. 

XEROPHTHALMIA:  An abnormal dryness of the eyeball produced usually by long- continued inflammation and subsequent atrophy of the conjunctiva. 

XEROPHTHALMY:  Xerophthalmia. 

XIPHIAS:  A genus of fishes comprising the common swordfish.  2. (Anat.) (a) The constellation Dorado. (b) A comet shaped like a sword 

XIPHIDIUM:  A genus of plants of the order Hæmodraceæ, having two-ranked, sword-shaped leaves. 

XIPHIOID:  Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cetacean of the genus Xiphius or family Xiphiidæ. 

XIPHIPLASTRON:  The posterior, or fourth, lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also xiphisternum. 

XIPHIUS:  A genus of cetaceans having a long, pointed, bony beak, usually two tusklike teeth in the lower jaw, but no teeth in the upper jaw. 

XIPHODON:  An extinct genus of artiodactylous mammals found in the European Tertiary formations. It had slender legs, didactylous feet, and small canine teeth. 

XIPHOIDIAN:  Xiphoid. 

XIPHOPHYLLOUS:  Having sword-shaped leaves. 

XIPHOSURA:  See Xiphura. 

XIPHURA:  Same as Limuloidea. Called also Xiphosura. X ray. See under Ray. 

XP:  The first two letters of the Greek word XRISTOS, Christ; -- an abbreviation used with the letters separate or, oftener, in a monogram, often inclosed in a circle, as a symbol or emblem of Christ. It use as an emblem was introduced by Constantine the Great, whence it is known as the Constantinian symbol, or monogram. See Labarum.  X RAYS; X-RAYS X rays, or X"-rays`, n. pl.  The Röntgen rays; -- so called by their discoverer because of their enigmatical character.  X-RAY TUBE X"-ray" tube. (Physics)  A vacuum tube suitable for producing Röntgen rays. 

XYLAMIDE:  An acid amide derivative of xylic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance. 

XYLAN:  A gummy substance of the pentosan class, present in woody tissue, and yielding xylose on hydrolysis; wood gum. 

XYLANTHRAX:  Wood coal, or charcoal; -- so called in distinction from mineral coal. 

XYLATE:  A salt of xylic acid. 

XYLEM:  That portion of a fibrovascular bundle which has developed, or will develop, into wood cells; -- distinguished from phloëm. 

XYLENE:  Any of a group of three metameric hydrocarbons of the aromatic series, found in coal and wood tar, and so named because found in crude wood spirit. They are colorless, oily, inflammable liquids, C6H4.(CH3)2, being dimethyl benzenes, and are called respectively orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene. Called also xylol.  Note: Each of these xylenes is the nucleus and prototype of a distinct series of compounds. 

XYLENOL:  Any one of six metameric phenol derivatives of xylene, obtained as crystalline substances, (CH3)2.C6H3.OH. 

XYLETIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid related to mesitylenic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the action of sodium and carbon dioxide on crude xylenol. 

XYLIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, xylene; specifically, designating any one of several metameric acids produced by the partial oxidation of mesitylene and pseudo-cumene. 

XYLIDIC:  Pertaining to, or designating, either one of two distinct acids which are derived from xylic acid and related compounds, and are metameric with uvitic acid. 

XYLIDINE:  Any one of six metameric hydrocarbons, (CH3)2.C6H3.NH2, resembling aniline, and related to xylene. They are liquids, or easily fusible crystalline substances, of which three are derived from metaxylene, two from orthoxylene, and one from paraxylene. They are called the amido xylenes.  Note: The xylidine of commerce, used in making certain dyes, consists chiefly of the derivatives of paraxylene and metaxylene. 

XYLINDEIN:  A green or blue pigment produced by Peziza in certain kinds of decayed wood, as the beech, oak, birch, etc., and extracted as an amorphous powder resembling indigo. 

XYLITE:  A liquid hydrocarbon found in crude wood spirits. 

XYLITONE:  A yellow oil having a geraniumlike odor, produced as a side product in making phorone; -- called also xylite oil.  XYLO- Xy"lo-.  A combining form from Gr. xy`lon wood; as in xylogen, xylograph. 

XYLOBALSAMUM:  The dried twigs of a Syrian tree (Balsamodendron Gileadense). U. S. Disp. 

XYLOCARPOUS:  Bearing fruit which becomes hard or woody. 

XYLOCOPA:  A genus of hymenopterous insects including the carpenter. See Carpenter bee, under Carpenter.  -- Xy*loc"o*pine, a. 

XYLOGRAPH:  An engraving on wood, or the impression from such an engraving; a print by xylography. 

XYLOGRAPHER:  One who practices xylography.  XYLOGRAPHIC; XYLOGRAPHICAL Xy`lo*graph"ic, Xy`lo*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. xylographique.]  Of or pertaining to xylography, or wood engraving. 

XYLOID:  Resembling wood; having the nature of wood. 

XYLOIDIN:  A substance resembling pyroxylin, obtained by the action of nitric acid on starch; -- called also nitramidin. 

XYLOL:  Same as Xylene. 

XYLOLOGY:  The branch of dendrology treating of the gross and minute structure of wood. 

XYLONITE:  See Zylonite. 

XYLOPHAGA:  A genus of marine bivalves which bore holes in wood. They are allied to Pholas. 

XYLOPHAGIDES:  A tribe or family of dipterous flies whose larvæ live in decayed wood. Some of the tropical species are very large. 

XYLOPHILAN:  One of a tribe of beetles (Xylophili) whose larvæ live on decayed wood. 

XYLOPHILOUS:  Of or pertaining to the xylophilans. 

XYLOPHONE:  An instrument common among the Russians, Poles, and Tartars, consisting of a series of strips of wood or glass graduated in length to the musical scale, resting on belts of straw, and struck with two small hammers. Called in Germany strohfiedel, or straw fiddle.  2. An instrument to determine the vibrative properties of different kinds of wood. Knight. 

XYLOPLASTIC:  Formed of wood pulp by molds; relating to casts made of wood pulp in molds. 

XYLOPYROGRAPHY:  The art or practice of burning pictures on wood with a hot iron; -- called also poker painting. See Poker picture, under Poker. 

XYLOQUINONE:  Any one of a group of quinone compounds obtained respectively by the oxidation of certain xylidine compounds. In general they are yellow crystalline substances. 

XYLORCIN:  A derivative of xylene obtained as a white crystalline substance which on exposure in the air becomes red; -- called also betaorcin. 

XYLOSE:  An unfermentable sugar of the pentose class, C5H10O5, formed by the hydrolysis of xylan; wood sugar. 

XYLOSTEIN:  A glucoside found in the poisonous berries of a species of honeysuckle (Lonicera xylosteum), and extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance. 

XYLOTILE:  Same as Parkesine. 

XYLOTOMIST:  One versed or engaged in xylotomy. 

XYLOTOMOUS:  Capable of boring or cutting wood; -- said of many insects. 

XYLOTOMY:  Art of preparing sections (transverse, tangential, or radial) of wood, esp. by means of a microtome, for microscopic examination. 

XYLOTRYA:  A genus of marine bivalves closely allied to Teredo, and equally destructive to timber. One species (Xylotrya fimbriata) is very common on the Atlantic coast of the United States. 

XYLYL:  Any one of three metameric radicals which are characteristic respectively of the three xylenes. 

XYLYLENE:  Any one of three metameric radicals, CH2.C6H4.CH2, derived respectively from the three xylenes. Often used adjectively; as, xylylene alcohol. 

XYRIDACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to a natural order (Xyrideæ) of endogenous plants, of which Xyris is the type. 

XYRIS:  A genus of endogenous herbs with grassy leaves and small yellow flowers in short, scaly-bracted spikes; yellow-eyed grass. There are about seventeen species in the Atlantic United States.  XYST; XYSTUS Xyst, Xys"tus, n. Etym: [L. xystus, Gr. (Anc. Arch.)  A long and open portico, for athletic exercises, as wrestling, running, etc., for use in winter or in stormy weather. 

XYSTARCH:  An office Dr. W. Smith. 

XYSTER:  An instrument for scraping bone. 

Y:  Y, the twenty-fifth letter of the English alphabet, at the beginning of a word or syllable, except when a prefix (see Y-), is usually a fricative vocal consonant; as a prefix, and usually in the middle or at the end of a syllable, it is a vowel. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 145, 178-9, 272.  Note: It derives its form from the Latin Y, which is from the Greek u, i, o, and j. g; as in full, fill, AS. fyllan; E. crypt, grotto; young, juvenile; day, AS. dæg. See U, I, and J, G.  Note: Y has been called the Pythagorean letter, because the Greek letter 

Y:  Something shaped like the letter Y; a forked piece resembling in form the letter Y. Specifically: (a) One of the forked holders for supporting the telescope of a leveling instrument, or the axis of a theodolite; a wye. (b) A forked or bifurcated pipe fitting. (c) (Railroads) A portion of track consisting of two diverging tracks connected by a cross track. Y level (Surv.), an instrument for measuring differences of level by means of a telescope resting in Y's.  -- Y moth (Zoöl.), a handsome European noctuid moth Plusia gamma) which has a bright, silvery mark, shaped like the letter Y, on each of the fore wings. Its larva, which is green with five dorsal white species, feeds on the cabbage, turnip, bean, etc. Called also gamma moth, and silver Y. 

Y:  I. [Obs.] King Horn. Wyclif.  Y-; I- Y-, or I-. Etym: [OE. y-, i-, AS. ge-, akin to D. & G. ge-, OHG. gi-, ga-, Goth. ga-, and perhaps to Latin con-; originally meaning, together. Cf. Com-, Aware, Enough, Handiwork, Ywis.]  A prefix of obscure meaning, originally used with verbs, adverbs, adjectives, nouns, and pronouns. In the Middle English period, it was little employed except with verbs, being chiefly used with past participles, though occasionally with the infinitive Ycleped, or yclept, is perhaps the only word not entirely obsolete which shows this use. That no wight mighte it see neither yheere. Chaucer. Neither to ben yburied nor ybrent. Chaucer.  Note: Some examples of Chaucer's use of this prefix are; ibe, ibeen, icaught, ycome, ydo, idoon, ygo, iproved, ywrought. It inough, enough, it is combined with an adjective. Other examples are in the Vocabulary. Spenser and later writers frequently employed this prefix when affecting an archaic style, and sometimes used it incorrectly. 

YA:  Yea. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YACARE:  A South American crocodilian (Jacare sclerops) resembling the alligator in size and habits. The eye orbits are connected together, and surrounded by prominent bony ridges. Called also spectacled alligator, and spectacled cayman. [Written also jacare.]  Note: The name is also applied to allied species. 

YACCA:  A West Indian name for two large timber trees (Podocarpus coriaceus, and P. Purdicanus) of the Yew family. The wood, which is much used, is pale brownish with darker streaks. 

YACHT:  A light and elegantly furnished vessel, used either for private parties of pleasure, or as a vessel of state to convey distinguished persons from one place to another; a seagoing vessel used only for pleasure trips, racing, etc. Yacht measurement. See the Note under Tonnage, 4. 

YACHT:  To manage a yacht; to voyage in a yacht. 

YACHTER:  One engaged in sailing a jacht. 

YACHTING:  Sailing for pleasure in a yacht. 

YACHTMAN:  See Yachtsman. 

YACHTSMAN:  One who owns or sails a yacht; a yachter. 

YAF:  Gave. See Give. Chaucer. 

YAFFINGALE:  The yaffle. [Prov. Eng.] 

YAFFLE:  The European green woodpecker (Picus, or Genius, viridis). It is noted for its loud laughlike note. Called also eccle, hewhole, highhoe, laughing bird, popinjay, rain bird, yaffil, yaffler, yaffingale, yappingale, yackel, and woodhack. 

YAGER:  In the German army, one belonging to a body of light infantry armed with rifles, resembling the chasseur of the French army. [Written also jager.] 

YAGUARUNDI:  Same as Jaguarondi. [Written also yaguarondi, and yagouarondi.] 

YAHOO:  A modern transliteration of the Hebrew word translated Jehovah in the Bible; -- used by some critics to discriminate the tribal god of the ancient Hebrews from the Christian Jehovah. Yahweh or Yahwe is the spelling now generally adopted by scholars.  YAHWISM; JAHVISM Yah"wism, n. Also Jah"vism.  1. The religion or worship of Yahweh (Jehovah), or the system of doctrines, etc., connected with it.  2.  Use of Yahweh as a name of God.  YAHWIST; JAHVIST; JAHWIST; JEHOVIST Yah"wist, n. Also Jah"vist, Jah"wist, older Je*ho"vist.  The author of the passages of the Old Testament, esp. those of the Hexateuch, in which God is styled Yahweh, or Jehovah; the author of the Yahwistic, or Jehovistic, Prophetic Document (J); also, the document itself.  YAJUR-VEDA Yaj"ur-Ve"da, n. Etym: [Skr. yajur-v.]  See Veda. 

YAK:  A bovine mammal (Poëphagus grunnies) native of the high plains of Central Asia. Its neck, the outer side of its legs, and its flanks, are covered with long, flowing, fine hair. Its tail is long and bushy, often white, and is valued as an ornament and for other purposes in India and China. There are several domesticated varieties, some of which lack the mane and the long hair on the flanks. Called also chauri gua, grunting cow, grunting ox, sarlac, sarlik, and sarluc. Yak lace, a coarse pillow lace made from the silky hair of the yak. 

YAKAMILK:  See Trumpeter, 3 (a). 

YAKARE:  Same as Yacare. 

YAKIN:  A large Asiatic antelope (Budorcas taxicolor) native of the higher parts of the Himalayas and other lofty mountains. Its head and neck resemble those of the ox, and its tail is like that of the goat. Called also budorcas. 

YAKOOTS:  (Ethnol.) A nomadic Mongolian tribe native of Northern Siberia, and supposed to be of Turkish stock. They are mainly pastoral in their habits. [Written also Yakuts.] 

YAKSHA:  A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth. 

YAKUT:  The Turkish language of the Yakuts, a Mongolian people of northeastern Siberia, which is lingua franca over much of eastern Siberia. 

YALAH:  The oil of the mahwa tree. 

YAM:  A large, esculent, farinaceous tuber of various climbing plants of the genus Dioscorea; also, the plants themselves. Mostly natives of warm climates. The plants have netted-veined, petioled leaves, and pods with three broad wings. The commonest species is D. sativa, but several others are cultivated. Chinese yam, a plant (Dioscorea Batatas) with a long and slender tuber, hardier than most of the other species.  -- Wild yam. (a) A common plant (Dioscorea villosa) of the Eastern United States, having a hard and knotty rootstock. (b) An orchidaceous plant (Gastrodia sesamoides) of Australia and Tasmania. 

YAMA:  The king of the infernal regions, corresponding to the Greek Pluto, and also the judge of departed souls. In later times he is more exclusively considered the dire judge of all, and the tormentor of the wicked. He is represented as of a green color, with red garments, having a crown on his head, his eyes inflamed, and sitting on a buffalo, with a club and noose in his hands. 

YAMEN:  In China, the official headquarters or residence of a mandarin, including court rooms, offices, gardens, prisons, etc.; the place where the business of any public department is transcated. 

YAMMA:  The llama. 

YAMP:  An umbelliferous plant (Carum Gairdneri); also, its small fleshy roots, which are eaten by the Indians from Idaho to California. 

YANG:  The cry of the wild goose; a honk. 

YANG:  To make the cry of the wild goose. 

YANK:  A jerk or twitch. [Colloq. U. S.] 

YANK:  To twitch; to jerk. [Colloq. U. S.] 

YANK:  An abbreviation of Yankee. [Slang] 

YANKEE:  A nickname for a native of citizen of New England, especially one descended from old New England stock; by extension, an inhabitant of the Northern States as distinguished from a Southerner; also, applied sometimes by foreigners to any inhabitant of the United States. From meanness first this Portsmouth Yankey rose, And still to meanness all his conduct flows. Oppression, A poem by an American (Boston, 1765). 

YANKEE:  Of or pertaining to a Yankee; characteristic of the Yankees. The alertness of the Yankee aspect. Hawthorne. Yankee clover. (Bot.) See Japan clover, under Japan.  YANKEE-DOODLE Yan`kee-Doo"dle, n.  1. The name of a tune adopted popularly as one of the national airs of the United States.  2. Humorously, a Yankee. We might have withheld our political noodles From knocking their heads against hot Yankee-Doodles. Moore. 

YANKEEISM:  A Yankee idiom, word, custom, or the like. Lowell. 

YAOURT:  A fermented drink, or milk beer, made by the Turks. 

YAP:  To bark; to yelp. L'Estrange. 

YAP:  A bark; a yelp. 

YAPOCK:  A South American aquatic opossum (Chironectes variegatus) found in Guiana and Brazil. Its hind feet are webbed, and its fore feet do not have an opposable thumb for climbing. Called also water opossum. [Written also yapack.] 

YAPON:  Same as Yaupon. 

YARAGE:  The power of moving, or being managed, at sea; -- said with reference to a ship. Sir T. North. 

YARD:  A long piece of timber, nearly cylindrical, tapering toward the ends, and designed to support and extend a square sail. A yard is usually hung by the center to the mast. See Illust. of Ship. Golden Yard, or Yard and Ell (Astron.), a popular name the three stars in the belt of Orion.  -- Under yard [i. e., under the rod], under contract. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YARD:  To confine (cattle) to the yard; to shut up, or keep, in a yard; as, to yard cows. 

YARDARM:  Either half of a square-rigged vessel's yard, from the center or mast to the end.  Note: Ships are said to be yardarm and yardarm when so near as to touch, or interlock yards. 

YARDFUL:  As much as a yard will contain; enough to fill a yard. 

YARDLAND:  A measure of land of uncertain quantity, varying from fifteen to forty acres; a virgate. [Obs.] 

YARDSTICK:  A stick three feet, or a yard, in length, used as a measure of cloth, etc. 

YARDWAND:  A yardstick. Tennyson. 

YARE:  Ready; dexterous; eager; lively; quick to move. [Obs.] "Be yare in thy preparation." Shak. The lesser [ship] will come and go, leave or take, and is yare; whereas the greater is slow. Sir W. Raleigh. 

YARE:  Soon. [Obs.] Cursor Mundi. 

YARELY:  In a yare manner. [Obs.] Shak. 

YARK:  To yerk. [Prov. Eng.] 

YARKE:  Same as Saki. 

YARN:  One of the threads of which the strands of a rope are composed.  3. A story told by a sailor for the amusement of his companions; a story or tale; as, to spin a yarn. [Colloq.] 

YARNEN:  Made of yarn; consisting of yarn. [Obs.] "A pair of yarnen stocks." Turbervile. 

YARNUT:  See Yernut. 

YARR:  To growl or snarl as a dog. [Obs.] Ainsworth. 

YARRISH:  Having a rough, dry taste. [Prov. Eng.] 

YARROW:  An American and European composite plant (Achillea Millefolium) with very finely dissected leaves and small white corymbed flowers. It has a strong, and somewhat aromatic, odor and taste, and is sometimes used in making beer, or is dried for smoking. Called also milfoil, and nosebleed. 

YARWHIP:  The European bar-tailed godwit; -- called also yardkeep, and yarwhelp. See Godwit. [Prov. Eng.] 

YATAGHAN:  A long knife, or short saber, common among Mohammedan nations, usually having a double curve, sometimes nearly straight. [Written also ataghan, attaghan.] Chaucer. 

YATE:  A gate. See 1st Gate. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Spenser. 

YAUD:  See Yawd. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 

YAUL:  See Yawl. 

YAULP:  To yaup. 

YAUP:  To cry out like a child; to yelp. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.] [Written also yawp.] 

YAUP:  The blue titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] 

YAUPER:  One who, or that which, yaups. 

YAUPON:  A shrub (Ilex Cassine) of the Holly family, native from Virginia to Florida. The smooth elliptical leaves are used as a substitute for tea, and were formerly used in preparing the black drink of the Indians of North Carolina. Called also South-Sea tea. [Written also yapon, youpon, and yupon.] 

YAUTIA:  In Porto Rico, any of several araceous plants or their starchy edible roots, which are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes, as the taro. 

YAW:  To rise in blisters, breaking in white froth, as cane juice in the clarifiers in sugar works. 

YAW:  To steer wild, or out of the line of her course; to deviate from her course, as when struck by a heavy sea; -- said of a ship. Just as he would lay the ship's course, all yawing being out of the question. Lowell. 

YAW:  A movement of a vessel by which she temporarily alters her course; a deviation from a straight course in steering. 

YAWD:  A jade; an old horse or mare. [Written also yaud.] [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Grose. 

YAWI:  A fore-and-aft-rigged vessel with a mainmast stepped a little farther forward than in a sloop and carrying a mainsail and jibs, with a jigger mast far aft, usually placed abaft the rudder post. 

YAWL:  A small ship's boat, usually rowed by four or six oars. [Written also yaul.] 

YAWL:  To cry out like a dog or cat; to howl; to yell. Tennyson. There howling Scyllas yawling round about. Fairfax.  YAWL-RIGGED Yawl"-rigged", a. (Naut.)  Having two masts with fore-and-aft sails, but differing from a schooner in that the after mast is very small, and stepped as far aft as possible. See Illustration in Appendix. 

YAWNINGLY:  In a yawning manner. 

YAWP:  See Yaup. 

YAWS:  A disease, occurring in the Antilles and in Africa, characterized by yellowish or reddish tumors, of a contagious character, which, in shape and appearance, often resemble currants, strawberries, or raspberries. There are several varieties of this disease, variously known as framboesia, pian, verrugas, and crab- yaws.  YAW-WEED Yaw"-weed`, n. (Bot.)  A low, shrubby, rubiaceous plant (Morinda Royoc) growing along the seacoast of the West Indies. It has small, white, odorous flowers.  YAZOO FRAUD Yaz"oo Fraud. (U. S. Hist.)  The grant by the State of Georgia, by Act of Jan. 7, 1795, of 35,000,000 acres of her western territory, for $500,000, to four companies known as the Yazoo Companies from the region granted ; -- commonly so called, the act being known as the Yazoo Frauds Act, because of alleged corruption of the legislature, every member but one being a shareholder in one or more of the companies. The act granting the land was repealed in 1796 by a new legislature, and the repealing provision was incorporated in the State constitution in 1798. In 1802 the territory was ceded to the United States. The claims of the purchasers, whom Georgia had refused to compensate, were sustained by the United States Supreme Court, which (1810) declared the repealing act of 1796 unconstitutional. Congress in 1814 ordered the lands sold and appropriated $5,000,000 to pay the claims. 

YBE:  Been. Chaucer. 

YCLEPED:  Called; named; -- obsolete, except in archaic or humorous writings. [Spelt also yclept.] It is full fair to ben yclept madame. Chaucer. But come, thou goddess fair and free. In heaven ycleped Euphrosyne. Milton. Those charming little missives ycleped valentines. Lamb.  Y CURRENT Y current. (Elec.)  The current through one branch of the star arrangement of a three-phase circuit. 

YDO:  Done. Chaucer. 

YDRAD:  Dreaded. Yet nothing did he dread, but ever was ydrad. Spenser. 

YE:  an old method of printing the article the (AS. þe), the "y" being used in place of the Anglo-Saxon thorn. It is sometimes incorrectly pronounced ye. See The, and Thorn, n., 4. 

YE:  An eye. [Obs.] From his yën ran the water down. Chaucer. 

YE:  The plural of the pronoun of the second person in the nominative case. Ye ben to me right welcome heartily. Chaucer. But ye are washed, but ye are sanctified. 1 Cor. vi. 11. This would cost you your life in case ye were a man. Udall.  Note: In Old English ye was used only as a nominative, and you only as a dative or objective. In the 16th century, however, ye and you became confused and were often used interchangeably, both as nominatives and objectives, and you has now superseded ye except in solemn or poetic use. See You, and also the first Note under Thou. Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye. Shak. I come, kind gentlemen, strange news to tell ye. Dryden. 

YE:  Yea; yes. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YEA:  An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, a vote by yeas and nays.  Note: In the Scriptures, yea is used as a sign of certainty or stability. "All the promises of God in him are yea, and in him Amen." 2 Cor. i. 20. 

YEAD:  Properly, a variant of the defective imperfect yode, but sometimes mistaken for a present. See the Note under Yede. [Obs.] Years yead away and faces fair deflower. Drant. 

YEAN:  To bring forth young, as a goat or a sheep; to ean. Shak. 

YEANLING:  A lamb or a kid; an eanling. Shak. 

YEAR:  Age, or old age; as, a man in years. Shak. Anomalistic year, the time of the earth's revolution from perihelion to perihelion again, which is 365 days, 6 hours, 13 minutes, and 48 seconds.  -- A year's mind (Eccl.), a commemoration of a deceased person, as by a Mass, a year after his death. Cf. A month's mind, under Month.  -- Bissextile year. See Bissextile.  -- Canicular year. See under Canicular.  -- Civil year, the year adopted by any nation for the computation of time.  -- Common lunar year, the period of 12 lunar months, or 354 days.  -- Common year, each year of 365 days, as distinguished from leap year.  -- Embolismic year, or Intercalary lunar year, the period of 13 lunar months, or 384 days.  -- Fiscal year (Com.), the year by which accounts are reckoned, or the year between one annual time of settlement, or balancing of accounts, and another.  -- Great year. See Platonic year, under Platonic.  -- Gregorian year, Julian year. See under Gregorian, and Julian.  -- Leap year. See Leap year, in the Vocabulary.  -- Lunar astronomical year, the period of 12 lunar synodical months, or 354 days, 8 hours, 48 minutes, 36 seconds.  -- Lunisolar year. See under Lunisolar.  -- Periodical year. See Anomalistic year, above.  -- Platonic year, Sabbatical year. See under Platonic, and Sabbatical.  -- Sidereal year, the time in which the sun, departing from any fixed star, returns to the same. This is 365 days, 6 hours, 9 minutes, and 9.3 seconds.  -- Tropical year. See under Tropical.  -- Year and a day (O. Eng. Law), a time to be allowed for an act or an event, in order that an entire year might be secured beyond all question. Abbott.  -- Year of grace, any year of the Christian era; Anno Domini; A. D. or a. d. 

YEARA:  The California poison oak (Rhus diversiloba). See under Poison, a. 

YEARBOOK:  A book containing annual reports of cases adjudged in the courts of England.  Note: The Yearbooks are the oldest English reports extant, beginning with the reign of Edward II., and ending with the reign of Henry VIII. They were published annually, and derive their name from that fact. They consist of eleven parts, or volumes, are written in Law French, and extend over nearly two hundred years. There are, however, several hiatuses, or chasms, in the series. Kent. Bouvier. 

YEARED:  Containing years; having existed or continued many years; aged. [Obs.] B. Jonson. 

YEARLING:  An animal one year old, or in the second year of its age; -- applied chiefly to cattle, sheep, and horses. 

YEARLING:  Being a year old. "A yearling bullock to thy name small smoke." Pope. 

YEARLY:  Annually; once a year to year; as, blessings yearly bestowed. Yearly will I do this rite. Shak. 

YEARN:  To pain; to grieve; to vex. [Obs.] "She laments, sir, for it, that it would yearn your heart to see it." Shak. It yearns me not if men my garments wear. Shak. 

YEARN:  To be pained or distressed; to grieve; to mourn. [Obs.] "Falstaff he is dead, and we must yearn therefore." Shak. 

YEARN:  To curdle, as milk. [Scot.] 

YEARN:  To be filled with longing desire; to be harassed or rendered uneasy with longing, or feeling the want of a thing; to strain with emotions of affection or tenderness; to long; to be eager. Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother; and he sought where to weep. Gen. xliii. 30. Your mother's heart yearns towards you. Addison. 

YEARNFUL:  Desirous. [Obs.] Ormulum. P. Fletcher. 

YEARNINGLY:  With yearning. 

YEARNINGS:  The maws, or stomachs, of young calves, used a rennet for curdling milk. [Scot.]  YEAR'S PURCHASE Year's purchase.  The amount that is yielded by the annual income of property; -- used in expressing the value of a thing in the number of years required for its income to yield its purchase price, in reckoning the amount to be paid for annuities, etc. 

YEARTH:  The earth. [Obs.] "Is my son dead or hurt or on the yerthe felled" Ld. Berners. 

YEAST:  A form of fungus which grows as indvidual rounded cells, rather than in a mycelium, and reproduces by budding; esp. members of the orders Endomycetales and Moniliales. Some fungi may grow both as a yeast or as a mycelium, depending on the conditions of growth. Yeast cake, a mealy cake impregnated with the live germs of the yeast plant, and used as a conveniently transportable substitute for yeast.  -- Yeast plant (Bot.), the vegetable organism, or fungus, of which beer yeast consists. The yeast plant is composed of simple cells, or granules, about one three-thousandth of an inch in diameter, often united into filaments which reproduce by budding, and under certain circumstances by the formation of spores. The name is extended to other ferments of the same genus. See Saccharomyces.  -- Yeast powder, a baling powder, -- used instead of yeast in leavening bread.  YEAST-BITTEN Yeast"-bit`ten, a. (Brewing)  A term used of beer when the froth of the yeast has reëntered the body of the beer. 

YEASTINESS:  The quality or state of being yeasty, or frothy. 

YEASTY:  Frothy; foamy; spumy, like yeast. 

YEDDING:  The song of a minstrel; hence, any song. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YEDE:  Went. See Yode. All as he bade fulfilled was indeed This ilke servant anon right out yede. Chaucer.  Note: Spenser and some later writers mistook this for a present of the defective imperfect yode. It is, however, only a variant of yode. See Yode, and cf. Yead. [He] on foot was forced for to yeed. Spenser 

YEEL:  An eel. [Obs.] Holland. 

YELDHALL:  Guildhall. [Obs.] Chaucer.  YELDRIN; YELDRINE Yel"drin or; Yel"drine, n. Etym: [Cf. Yellow.] (Zoöl.)  The yellow-hammer; -- called also yeldrock, and yoldrin. [Prov. Eng.] 

YELK:  Same as Yolk. 

YELL:  To cry out, or shriek, with a hideous noise; to cry or scream as with agony or horror. They yelleden as feendes doon in helle. Chaucer. Nor the night raven, that still deadly yells. Spenser. Infernal ghosts and hellish furies round Environed thee; some howled, some yelled. Milton. 

YELL:  To utter or declare with a yell; to proclaim in a loud tone. Shak. 

YELL:  A sharp, loud, hideous outcry. Their hideous yells Rend the dark welkin. J. Philips. 

YELLOW:  Being of a bright saffronlike color; of the color of gold or brass; having the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is between the orange and the green. Her yellow hair was browded [braided] in a tress. Chaucer. A sweaty reaper from his tillage brought First fruits, the green ear and the yellow sheaf. Milton. The line of yellow light dies fast away. Keble. Yellow atrophy (Med.), a fatal affection of the liver, in which it undergoes fatty degeneration, and becomes rapidly smaller and of a deep yellow tinge. The marked symptoms are black vomit, delirium, convulsions, coma, and jaundice.  -- Yellow bark, calisaya bark.  -- Yellow bass (Zoöl.), a North American fresh-water bass (Morone interrupta) native of the lower parts of the Mississippi and its tributaries. It is yellow, with several more or less broken black stripes or bars. Called also barfish.  -- Yellow berry. (Bot.) Same as Persian berry, under Persian.  -- Yellow boy, a gold coin, as a guinea. [Slang] Arbuthnot.  -- Yellow brier. (Bot.) See under Brier.  -- Yellow bugle (Bot.), a European labiate plant (Ajuga Chamæpitys).  -- Yellow bunting (Zoöl.), the European yellow-hammer.  -- Yellow cat (Zoöl.), a yellow catfish; especially, the bashaw.  -- Yellow copperas (Min.), a hydrous sulphate of iron; -- called also copiapite.  -- Yellow copper ore, a sulphide of copper and iron; copper pyrites. See Chalcopyrite.  -- Yellow cress (Bot.), a yellow-flowered, cruciferous plant (Barbarea præcox), sometimes grown as a salad plant.  -- Yellow dock. (Bot.) See the Note under Dock.  -- Yellow earth, a yellowish clay, colored by iron, sometimes used as a yellow pigment.  -- Yellow fever (Med.), a malignant, contagious, febrile disease of warm climates, attended with jaundice, producing a yellow color of the skin, and with the black vomit. See Black vomit, in the Vocabulary.  -- Yellow flag, the quarantine flag. See under Quarantine, and 3d Flag.  -- Yellow jack. (a) The yellow fever. See under 2d Jack. (b) The quarantine flag. See under Quarantine.  -- Yellow jacket (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American social wasps of the genus Vespa, in which the color of the body is partly bright yellow. These wasps are noted for their irritability, and for their painful stings.  -- Yellow lead ore (Min.), wulfenite.  -- Yellow lemur (Zoöl.), the kinkajou.  -- Yellow macauco (Zoöl.), the kinkajou.  -- Yellow mackerel (Zoöl.), the jurel.  -- Yellow metal. Same as Muntz metal, under Metal.  -- Yellow ocher (Min.), an impure, earthy variety of brown iron ore, which is used as a pigment.  -- Yellow oxeye (Bot.), a yellow-flowered plant (Chrysanthemum segetum) closely related to the oxeye daisy.  -- Yellow perch (Zoöl.), the common American perch. See Perch.  -- Yellow pike (Zoöl.), the wall-eye.  -- Yellow pine (Bot.), any of several kinds of pine; also, their yellowish and generally durable timber. Among the most common are valuable species are Pinus mitis and P. palustris of the Eastern and Southern States, and P. ponderosa and P. Arizonica of the Rocky Mountains and Pacific States.  -- Yellow plover (Zoöl.), the golden plover.  -- Yellow precipitate (Med. Chem.), an oxide of mercury which is thrown down as an amorphous yellow powder on adding corrosive sublimate to limewater.  -- Yellow puccoon. (Bot.) Same as Orangeroot.  -- Yellow rail (Zoöl.), a small American rail (Porzana Noveboracensis) in which the lower parts are dull yellow, darkest on the breast. The back is streaked with brownish yellow and with black, and spotted with white. Called also yellow crake.  -- Yellow rattle, Yellow rocket. (Bot.) See under Rattle, and Rocket.  -- Yellow Sally (Zoöl.), a greenish or yellowish European stone fly of the genus Chloroperla; -- so called by anglers.  -- Yellow sculpin (Zoöl.), the dragonet.  -- Yellow snake (Zoöl.), a West Indian boa (Chilobothrus inornatus) common in Jamaica. It becomes from eight to ten long. The body is yellowish or yellowish green, mixed with black, and anteriorly with black lines.  -- Yellow spot. (a) (Anat.) A small yellowish spot with a central pit, the fovea centralis, in the center of the retina where vision is most accurate. See Eye. (b) (Zoöl.) A small American butterfly (Polites Peckius) of the Skipper family. Its wings are brownish, with a large, irregular, bright yellow spot on each of the hind wings, most conspicuous beneath. Called also Peck's skipper. See Illust. under Skipper, n., 5.  -- Yellow tit (Zoöl.), any one of several species of crested titmice of the genus Machlolophus, native of India. The predominating colors of the plumage are yellow and green.  -- Yellow viper (Zoöl.), the fer-de-lance.  -- Yellow warbler (Zoöl.), any one of several species of American warblers of the genus Dendroica in which the predominant color is yellow, especially D. æstiva, which is a very abundant and familiar species; -- called also garden warbler, golden warbler, summer yellowbird, summer warbler, and yellow-poll warbler.  -- Yellow wash (Pharm.), yellow oxide of mercury suspended in water, -- a mixture prepared by adding corrosive sublimate to limewater.  -- Yellow wren (Zoöl.) (a) The European willow warbler. (b) The European wood warbler. 

YELLOW:  To make yellow; to cause to have a yellow tinge or color; to dye yellow. 

YELLOW:  To become yellow or yellower. 

YELLOWAMMER:  See Yellow-hammer. 

YELLOWBILL:  The American scoter. 

YELLOWBIRD:  In France, an official government publication bound in yellow covers.  YELLOW-COVERED Yel"low-cov`ered, a.  Covered or bound in yellow paper. Yellow-covered literature, cheap sensational novels and trashy magazines; -- formerly so called from the usual color of their covers. [Colloq. U. S.] Bartlett.  YELLOW-EYED Yel"low-eyed`, a.  Having yellow eyes. Yellow-eyed grass (Bot.), any plant of the genus Xyris. 

YELLOWFIN:  A large squeteague. 

YELLOWFISH:  A rock trout (Pleurogrammus monopterygius) found on the coast of Alaska; -- called also striped fish, and Atka mackerel.  YELLOW-GOLDS Yel"low-golds`, n. (Bot.)  A certain plant, probably the yellow oxeye. B. Jonson. 

YELLOWING:  The act or process of making yellow. Softened . . . by the yellowing which time has given. G. Eliot. 

YELLOWISH:  Somewhat yellow; as, amber is of a yellowish color.  -- Yel"low*ish*ness, n. 

YELLOWLEGS:  Any one of several species of long-legged sandpipers of the genus Totanus, in which the legs are bright yellow; -- called also stone snipe, tattler, telltale, yellowshanks; and yellowshins. See Tattler, 2. 

YELLOWROOT:  Any one of several plants with yellow roots. Specifically: (a) See Xanthorhiza. (b) Same as Orangeroot. 

YELLOWS:  A disease of the bile in horses, cattle, and sheep, causing yellowness of the eyes; jaundice. His horse . . . sped with spavins, rayed with the yellows. Shak.  2. (Bot.)  A disease of plants, esp. of peach trees, in which the leaves turn to a yellowish color; jeterus.  3. (Zoöl.)  A group of butterflies in which the predominating color is yellow. It includes the common small yellow butterflies. Called also redhorns, and sulphurs. See Sulphur. 

YELLOWSEED:  A kind of pepper grass (Lepidium campestre).  YELLOWSHANKS; YELLOWSHINS Yel"low*shanks`, Yel"low*shins`, n. (Zoöl.)  See Yellolegs. 

YELLOWTHROAT:  Any one of several species of American ground warblers of the genus Geothlypis, esp. the Maryland yellowthroat (G. trichas), which is a very common species. 

YELLOWTOP:  A kind of grass, perhaps a species of Agrostis. 

YELLOWWOOD:  The wood of any one of several different kinds of trees; also, any one of the trees themselves. Among the trees so called are the Cladrastis tinctoria, an American leguminous tree; the several species of prickly ash (Xanthoxylum); the Australian Flindersia Oxleyana, a tree related to the mahogany; certain South African species of Podocarpus, trees related to the yew; the East Indian Podocarpus latifolia; and the true satinwood (Chloroxylon Swietenia). All these Old World trees furnish valuable timber. 

YELLOWWORT:  A European yellow-flowered, gentianaceous (Chlora perfoliata). The whole plant is intensely bitter, and is sometimes used as a tonic, and also in dyeing yellow. 

YELP:  A sharp, quick cry; a bark. Chaucer. 

YELPER:  An animal that yelps, or makes a yelping noise. Specifically: (Zoöl.) (a) The avocet; -- so called from its sharp, shrill cry. [Prov. Eng.] (b) The tattler. [Local, U. S.] 

YELTING:  The Florida and West Indian red snapper (Lutianus aya); also, sometimes, one of certain other allied species, as L. caxis. 

YEMAN:  A yeoman. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YEN:  The unit of value and account in Japan. Since Japan's adoption of the gold standard, in 1897, the value of the yen has been about 50 cents. The yen is equal to 100 sen. 

YEND:  To throw; to cast. [Prov. Eng.] 

YENITE:  A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals; -- also called ilvaite. [Spelt also jenite.] 

YEOMAN:  An interior officer under the boatswain, gunner, or carpenters, charged with the stowage, account, and distribution of the stores. Yeoman of the guard, one of the bodyguard of the English sovereign, consisting of the hundred yeomen, armed with partisans, and habited in the costume of the sixteenth century. They are members of the royal household. 

YEOMANLIKE:  Resembling, or suitable to, a yeoman; yeomanly. 

YEOMANLY:  Pertaining to a yeoman; becoming or suitable to, a yeoman; yeomanlike. B. Jonson. Well could he dress his tackle yeomanly. Chaucer. 

YEORLING:  The European yellow-hammer. 

YER:  Ere; before. [Obs.] Sylvester. 

YERBA:  An herb; a plant.  Note: This word is much used in compound names of plants in Spanish; as, yerba buena Etym: [Sp., a good herb], a name applied in Spain to several kinds of mint (Mentha sativa, viridis, etc.), but in California universally applied to a common, sweet-scented labiate plant (Micromeria Douglasii). Yerba dol osa. Etym: [Sp., herb of the she-bear.] A kind of buckthorn (Rhamnus Californica).  -- Yerba mansa. Etym: [Sp., a mild herb, soft herb.] A plant (Anemopsis Californica) with a pungent, aromatic rootstock, used medicinally by the Mexicans and the Indians.  -- Yerba reuma. Etym: [Cf. Sp. reuma rheum, rheumatism.] A low California undershrub (Frankenia grandifolia). 

YERD:  See 1st & 2d Yard. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YERK:  A sudden or quick thrust or motion; a jerk. 

YERN:  See 3d Yearn. [Obs.] 

YERN:  Eager; brisk; quick; active. [Obs.] "Her song . . . loud and yern." Chaucer. 

YERNE:  Eagerly; briskly; quickly. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. My hands and my tongue go so yerne. Chaucer. 

YERNUT:  An earthnut, or groundnut. See Groundnut (d). [Written also yarnut.] 

YERST:  See Erst. [Obs.] Sylvester. 

YES:  Ay; yea; -- a word which expresses affirmation or consent; -- opposed to Ant: no.  Note: Yes is used, like yea, to enforce, by repetition or addition, something which precedes; as, you have done all this -- yes, you have done more. "Yes, you despise the man books confined." Pope.  Note: "The fine distinction between `yea' and `yes,' `nay' and `no,' that once existed in English, has quite disappeared. `Yea' and `nay' in Wyclif's time, and a good deal later, were the answers to questions framed in the affirmative. `Will he come' To this it would have been replied, `Yea' or `Nay', as the case might be. But, `Will he not come' To this the answer would have been `Yes' or `No.' Sir Thomas More finds fault with Tyndale, that in his translation of the Bible he had not observed this distinction, which was evidently therefore going out even then, that is, in the reign of Henry VIII.; and shortly after it was quite forgotten." Trench. 

YEST:  See Yeast. Shak. 

YESTER:  Last; last past; next before; of or pertaining to yesterday. [An enemy] whom yester sun beheld Mustering her charms. Dryden.  Note: This word is now seldom used except in a few compounds; as, yesterday, yesternight, etc. 

YESTERDAY:  On the day last past; on the day preceding to-day; as, the affair took place yesterday.  YESTEREVE; YESTER-EVENING Yes"ter*eve`, Yes"ter-e`ven*ing, n.  The evening of yesterday; the evening last past.  YESTERMORN; YESTER-MORNING Yes"ter*morn`, Yes"ter-morn`ing, n.  The morning of yesterday. Coleridge. 

YESTERN:  Of or pertaining to yesterday; relating to the day last past. 

YESTERNIGHT:  The last night; the night last past. 

YESTERNIGHT:  On the last night. B. Jonson. 

YESTERNOON:  The noon of yesterday; the noon last past. 

YESTERWEEK:  The week last past; last week. 

YESTERYEAR:  The year last past; last year. 

YESTREEN:  Yester-evening; yesternight; last night. [R. or Scot.] Yestreen I did not know How largely I could live. Bp. Coxe. 

YESTY:  See Yeasty. Shak. 

YET:  Any one of several species of large marine gastropods belonging to the genus Yetus, or Cymba; a boat shell. 

YET:  Nevertheless; notwithstanding; however. Yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Matt. vi. 29.  Syn.  -- See However. 

YEVE:  To give. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YEVEN:  Given. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YEW:  See Yaw. 

YEW:  An evergreen tree (Taxus baccata) of Europe, allied to the pines, but having a peculiar berrylike fruit instead of a cone. It frequently grows in British churchyards.  2. The wood of the yew. It is light red in color, compact, fine- grained, and very elastic. It is preferred to all other kinds of wood for bows and whipstocks, the best for these purposes coming from Spain.  Note: The American yew (Taxus baccata, var. Canadensis) is a low and straggling or prostrate bush, never forming an erect trunk. The California yew (Taxus brevifolia) is a good-sized tree, and its wood is used for bows, spear handles, paddles, and other similar implements. Another yew is found in Florida, and there are species in Japan and the Himalayas.  3. A bow for shooting, made of the yew. 

YEW:  Of or pertaining to yew trees; made of the wood of a yew tree; as, a yew whipstock. 

YEWEN:  Made of yew; as, yewen bows. 

YEX:  To hiccough. [Written also yox, yux.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] He yexeth and he speaketh through the nose. Chaucer. 

YEX:  A hiccough. [Written also yox, and yux.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] "The excessive yex." Holland. 

YEZDEGERDIAN:  Of or pertaining to Yezdegerd, the last Sassanian monarch of Persia, who was overthrown by the Mohammedans; as, the Yezdegerdian era, which began on the 16th of June, a. d. 632. The era is still used by the Parsees. 

YEZDI:  Same as Izedi. Taylor.  YEZIDEE; YEZIDI Yez"i*dee, Yez"i*di, n.  Same as Izedi. 

YFERE:  Together. See Ifere. [Obs.] As friends do when they be met yfere. Chaucer. 

YGDRASYL:  See in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction. 

YGHE:  Eye. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YGO:  Gone. Chaucer. 

YGROUND:  p. p. of Grind. Chaucer. 

YHOLDE:  p. p. of Hold. Chaucer. 

YID:  A Jew. [Slang or Colloq.] "Almost any young Yid who goes out from among her people."  John Corbin. 

YIDDISH:  A language used by German and other Jews, being a Middle German dialect developed under Hebrew and Slavic influence. It is written in Hebrew characters. 

YIDDISHER:  A Yid. [Slang] 

YIELD:  Amount yielded; product; -- applied especially to products resulting from growth or cultivation. "A goodly yield of fruit doth bring." Bacon. 

YIELDABLE:  Disposed to yield or comply. [R.] -- Yield"a*ble*ness, n. [R.] Bp. Hall. 

YIELDER:  One who yields. Shak. 

YIELDING:  Inclined to give way, or comply; flexible; compliant; accommodating; as, a yielding temper. Yielding and paying (Law), the initial words of that clause in leases in which the rent to be paid by the lessee is mentioned and reserved. Burrill.  Syn.  -- Obsequious; attentive.  -- Yielding, Obsequious, Attentive. In many cases a man may be attentive or yielding in a high degree without any sacrifice of his dignity; but he who is obsequious seeks to gain favor by excessive and mean compliances for some selfish end.  -- Yield"ing*ly, adv.  -- Yield"ing*ness, n. 

YIELDLESS:  Without yielding; unyielding. [Obs.] 

YIFT:  Gift. [Obs.] "Great yiftes." Chaucer. 

YIN:  A Chinese weight of 2 

YIS:  Yes. [Obs.] "Yis, sir," quod he, "yis, host." Chaucer. 

YIT:  Yet. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YITE:  The European yellow-hammer. 

YIVE:  To give. [Obs.] Chaucer.  -YL -yl. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)  A suffix used as a characteristic termination of chemical radicals; as in ethyl, carbonyl, hydroxyl, etc.  Note: -yl was first used in 1832 by Liebig and Wöhler in naming benzoyl, in the sense of stuff, or fundamental material, then in 1834 by Dumas and Peligot in naming methyl, in the sense of wood. After this -yl was generally used as in benzoyl, in the sense of stuff, characteristic ground, fundamental material.  YLANG-YLANG Y*lang`-y*lang", n.  See Ihlang-ihlang. 

YLE:  Isle. [Obs.] "The barren yle." Chaucer.  Y LEVEL Y" lev`el. (Surv.)  See under Y, n.  YLICHE; YLIKE Y*liche", Y*like", a. & adv.  Like; alike. [Obs.] "All . . . yliche good." Chaucer. 

YLLANRATON:  The agouara. 

YMAKED:  Made. 

YMEL:  Among. [Obs.] "Ymel them all." Chaucer. 

YNAMBU:  A South American tinamou (Rhynchotus rufescens); -- called also perdiz grande, and rufous tinamou. See Illust. of Tinamou.  YNOUGH; YNOW Y*nough", Y*now", a. Etym: [See Enough.]  Enough. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YOCKEL:  The yaffle. 

YODE:  Went; walked; proceeded. [Written also yede.] See Yede. Quer [whether] they rade [rode] or yoke. Cursor Mundi. Then into Cornhill anon I yode. Lydgate.  YODEL; YODLE Yo"del, Yo"dle, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Yodeled, Yodled; p. pr. & vb. n. Yodeling, Yodling.] Etym: [G. jodeln.]  To sing in a manner common among the Swiss and Tyrolese mountaineers, by suddenly changing from the head voice, or falsetto, to the chest voice, and the contrary; to warble.  YODEL; YODLE Yo"del, Yo"dle, n.  A song sung by yodeling, as by the Swiss mountaineers. 

YODLER:  One who yodels. 

YOGA:  A species of asceticism among the Hindoos, which consists in a complete abstraction from all worldly objects, by which the votary expects to obtain union with the universal spirit, and to acquire superhuman faculties. 

YOGI:  A follower of the yoga philosophy; an ascetic. [Spelt also yokin.] Whitworth. 

YOGISM:  Yoga, or its practice. 

YOICKS:  A cry of encouragement to foxhounds. 

YOIT:  The European yellow-hammer. [Prov. Eng.] 

YOJAN:  A measure of distance, varying from four to ten miles, but usually about five. [India] [Written also yojana.] 

YOKE:  To be joined or associated; to be intimately connected; to consort closely; to mate. We 'll yoke together, like a double shadow. Shak. 

YOKEAGE:  See Rokeage. [Local, U. S.] 

YOKEFELLOW:  An associate or companion in, or as in; a mate; a fellow; especially, a partner in marriage. Phil. iv. 3. The two languages [English and French] became yokefellows in a still more intimate manner. Earle. Those who have most distinguished themselves by railing at the sex, very often choose one of the most worthless for a companion and yokefellow. Addison. 

YOKEL:  A country bumpkin. [Eng.] Dickens. 

YOKELET:  A small farm; -- so called as requiring but one yoke of oxen to till it. [Prov. Eng.] 

YOKEMATE:  Same as Yokefellow.  YOKE-TOED Yoke"-toed`, a. (Zoöl.)  Having two toes in front and two behind, as the trogons and woodpeckers. 

YOLD:  Yielded. Spenser. 

YOLDEN:  Yielded. 

YOLK:  An oily secretion which naturally covers the wool of sheep. Yolk cord (Zoöl.), a slender cord or duct which connects the yolk glands with the egg chambers in certain insects, as in the aphids.  -- Yolk gland (Zoöl.), a special organ which secretes the yolk of the eggs in many turbellarians, and in some other invertebrates. See Illust. of Hermaphrodite in Appendix.  -- Yolk sack (Anat.), the umbilical vesicle. See under Unbilical. 

YOLL:  To yell. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YOM:  Day; -- a Hebrew word used in the names of various Jewish feast days; as, Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement; Yom Teruah (lit., day of shouting), the Feast of Trumpets. 

YON:  At a distance, but within view; yonder. [Poetic] Read thy lot in yon celestial sign. Milton. Though fast yon shower be fleeting. Keble. 

YON:  Yonder. [Obs. or Poetic] But, first and chiefest, with thee bring Him that yon soars on golden wing. Milton. 

YONCOPIN:  A local name in parts of the Mississippi Valley for the American lotus (Nelumbo lutea). 

YOND:  Furious; mad; angry; fierce. [Obs.] "Then wexeth wood and yond." Spenser. 

YOND:  Yonder. [Obs.] "Yond in the garden." Chaucer. 

YONDER:  At a distance, but within view. Yonder are two apple women scolding. Arbuthnot. 

YONDER:  Being at a distance within view, or conceived of as within view; that or those there; yon. "Yon flowery arbors, yonder alleys green." Milton. "Yonder sea of light." Keble. Yonder men are too many for an embassage. Bacon. 

YONI:  The symbol under which Sakti, or the personification of the female power in nature, is worshiped. Cf. Lingam. 

YONKER:  A young fellow; a younker. [Obs. or Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. 

YORE:  In time long past; in old time; long since. [Obs. or Poetic] As it hath been of olde times yore. Chaucer. Which though he hath polluted oft and yore, Yet I to them for judgment just do fly. Spenser. Of yore, of old time; long ago; as, in times or days of yore. "But Satan now is wiser than of yore." Pope. Where Abraham fed his flock of yore. Keble. 

YORKER:  A tice.  YORK RITE York rite. (Freemasonry)  The rite or ceremonial observed by one of the Masonic systems, deriving its name from the city of York, in England; also, the system itself, which, in England, confers only the first three degrees. 

YORKSHIRE:  A county in the north of England. Yorkshire grit, a kind of stone used for polishing marble, and copperplates for engravers. Simmonds.  -- Yorkshire pudding, a batter pudding baked under meat.  YORK USE York" use`. (Eccl.)  The one of the three printed uses of England which was followed in the north. It was based on the Sarum use. See Use, n., 6. Shipley. 

YOT:  To unite closely. [Prov. Eng.] 

YOTE:  To pour water on; to soak in, or mix with, water. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Grose. My fowls, which well enough, I, as before, found feeding at their trough Their yoted wheat. Chapman. 

YOU:  The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed. See the Note under Ye. Ye go to Canterbury; God you speed. Chaucer. Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you To leave this place. Shak. In vain you tell your parting lover You wish fair winds may waft him over. Prior.  Note: Though you is properly a plural, it is in all ordinary discourse used also in addressing a single person, yet properly always with a plural verb. "Are you he that hangs the verses on the trees, wherein Rosalind is so admired " Shak. You and your are sometimes used indefinitely, like we, they, one, to express persons not specified. "The looks at a distance like a new-plowed land; but as you come near it, you see nothing but a long heap of heavy, disjointed clods." Addison. "Your medalist and critic are much nearer related than the world imagine." Addison. "It is always pleasant to be forced to do what you wish to do, but what, until pressed, you dare not attempt." Hook. You is often used reflexively for yourself of yourselves. "Your highness shall repose you at the tower." Shak. 

YOUL:  To yell; to yowl. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YOUNG:  The offspring of animals, either a single animal or offspring collectively. [The egg] bursting with kindly rupture, forth disclosed Their callow young. Milton. With young, with child; pregnant. 

YOUNGGER:  One who is younger; an inferior in age; a junior. "The elder shall serve the younger." Rom. ix. 12. 

YOUNGISH:  Somewhat young. Tatler. 

YOUNGLING:  A young person; a youth; also, any animal in its early life. "More dear . . . than younglings to their dam." Spenser. He will not be so willing, I think, to join with you as with us younglings. Ridley. 

YOUNGLING:  Young; youthful. Wordsworth. 

YOUNGLY:  Like a young person or thing; young; youthful. [Obs.] Shak. 

YOUNGLY:  An organization for promoting the spiritual, intellectual, social, and physical welfare of young men, founded, June 6, 1844, by George Williams (knighted therefor by Queen Victoria) in London. In 1851 it extended to the United States and Canada, and in 1855 representatives of similar organizations throughout Europe and America formed an international body. The movement has successfully expanded not only among young men in general, but also specifically among railroad men, in the army and navy, with provision for Indians and negroes, and a full duplication of all the various lines of oepration in the boys' departments. 

YOUNGNESS:  The quality or state of being young.  YOUNG ONE Young one.  A young human being; a child; also, a young animal, as a colt. 

YOUNGSTER:  A young person; a youngling; a lad. [Colloq.] "He felt himself quite a youngster, with a long life before him." G. Eliot. 

YOUNGTH:  Youth. [Obs.] Youngth is a bubble blown up with breath. Spenser. 

YOUNGTHLY:  Pertaining to, or resembling, youth; youthful. [Obs.] Spenser.  YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION Young Women's Christian Association.  An organization for promoting the spiritual, intellectual, social, and economic welfare of young women, originating in 1855 with Lady Kinnaird's home for young women, and Miss Emma Robert's prayer union for young women,in England, which were combined in the year 1884 as a national association. Now nearly all the civilized countries, and esp. the United States, have local, national, and international organizations. 

YOUNKER:  A young person; a stripling; a yonker. [Obs. or Colloq.] That same younker soon was overthrown. Spenser. 

YOUPON:  Same as Yaupon. 

YOUR:  The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you.  Note: The possessive takes the form yours when the noun to which it refers is not expressed, but implied; as, this book is yours. "An old fellow of yours." Chaucer. 

YOURS:  See the Note under Your. 

YOURS:  See the Note under Your. 

YOURSELF:  An emphasized or reflexive form of the pronoun of the second person; -- used as a subject commonly with you; as, you yourself shall see it; also, alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case; as, you have injured yourself. Of which right now ye han yourselve heard. Chaucer. If yourselves are old, make it your cause. Shak. Why should you be so cruel to yourself Milton. The religious movement which you yourself, as well as I, so faithfully followed from first to last. J. H. Newman. 

YOUTHFUL:  Also used figuratively. "The youthful season of the year." Shak.  2. Of or pertaining to the early part of life; suitable to early life; as, youthful days; youthful sports. "Warm, youthful blood." Shak. "Youthful thoughts." Milton.  3. Fresh; vigorous, as in youth. After millions of millions of ages . . . still youthful and flourishing. Bentley.  Syn.  -- Puerile; juvenile.  -- Youthful, Puerile, Juvenile. Puerile is always used in a bad sense, or at least in the sense of what is suitable to a boy only; as, puerile objections, puerile amusements, etc. Juvenile is sometimes taken in a bad sense, as when speaking of youth in contrast with manhood; as, juvenile tricks; a juvenile performance. Youthful is commonly employed in a good sense; as, youthful aspirations; or at least by way of extenuating; as, youthful indiscretions. "Some men, imagining themselves possessed with a divine fury, often fall into toys and trifles, which are only puerilities." Dryden. "Raw, juvenile writers imagine that, by pouring forth figures often, they render their compositions warm and animated." Blair.  -- Youth"ful*ly, adv.  -- Youth"ful*ness, n. 

YOUTHHOOD:  The quality or state of being a youth; the period of youth. Cheyne. 

YOUTHLY:  Young; youthful. [Obs.] "All my youthly days." Spenser. 

YOUTHSOME:  Youthful. [Obs.] Pepys. 

YOUTHY:  Young. [Obs.] Spectator. 

YOUZE:  The cheetah. 

YOW:  You. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YOWE:  A ewe. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] G. Eliot. 

YOWL:  To utter a loud, long, and mournful cry, as a dog; to howl; to yell. 

YOWL:  A loud, protracted, and mournful cry, as that of a dog; a howl. 

YOWLEY:  The European yellow-hammer. [Prov. Eng.] 

YOX:  See Yex. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YPIGHT:  See Pight. 

YPOCRAS:  Hippocras. [Obs.] Chaucer.  YPRES LACE Y"pres lace`.  Fine bobbin lace made at Ypres in Belgium, usually exactly like Valenciennes lace. 

YPSILIFORM:  Resembling the 

YPSILOID:  In the form of the letter Y; Y-shaped. 

YRAFT:  Bereft. Chaucer. 

YREN:  Iron. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YRONNE:  Run. Chaucer. 

YSAME:  Together. [Obs.] "And in a bag all sorts of seeds ysame." Spenser. 

YT:  , an old method of printing that (AS. æt, edhæt) the "y" taking the place of the old letter "Þ"). Cf. Ye, the.  YT; YT Yt, Yt (that),  an old method of printing that (AS. þæt, ðæt) the "y" taking the place of the old letter "thorn" (þ).  Cf. Ye, the. 

YTHROWE:  p. p. of Throw. Chaucer. 

YTTERBIC:  Pertaining to, or derived from, ytterbium; containing ytterbium. 

YTTERBIUM:  A rare element of the boron group, sometimes associated with yttrium or other related elements, as in euxenite and gadolinite. Symbol Yb; provisional atomic weight 173.2. Cf. Yttrium.  Note: Ytterbium is associated with other rare elements, and probably has not been prepared in a pure state. 

YTTRIA:  The oxide, Y2O3, or earth, of yttrium. 

YTTRIC:  Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, yttrium. 

YTTRIFEROUS:  Bearing or containing yttrium or the allied elements; as, gadolinite is one of the yttriferous minerals. 

YTTRIOUS:  Same as Yttric. 

YTTRIUM:  A rare metallic element of the boron-aluminium group, found in gadolinite and other rare minerals, and extracted as a dark gray powder. Symbol Y. Atomic weight, 89. [Written also ittrium.]  Note: Associated with yttrium are certain rare elements, as erbium, ytterbium, samarium, etc., which are separated in a pure state with great difficulty. They are studied by means of their spark or phosphorescent spectra. Yttrium is now regarded as probably not a simple element, but as a mixture of several substances.  YTTRO-CERITE Yt`tro-ce"rite, n. (Min.)  A mineral of a violet-blue color, inclining to gray and white. It is a hydrous fluoride of cerium, yttrium, and calcium.  YTTRO-COLUMBITE; YTTRO-TANTALITE Yt`tro-co*lum"bite, Yt`tro-tan"ta*lite, n. (Min.)  A tantalate of uranium, yttrium, and calcium, of a brown or black color. 

YU:  Jade. 

YUCCA:  See Flicker, n., 2. 

YUCCA:  A genus of American liliaceous, sometimes arborescent, plants having long, pointed, and often rigid, leaves at the top of a more or less woody stem, and bearing a large panicle of showy white blossoms.  Note: The species with more rigid leaves (as Yucca aloifolia, Y. Treculiana, and Y. baccata) are called Spanish bayonet, and one with softer leaves (Y. filamentosa) is called bear grass, and Adam's needle. Yucca moth (Zoöl.), a small silvery moth (Pronuba yuccasella) whose larvæ feed on plants of the genus Yucca.  YUCCA BORER Yuc"ca bor`er.  (a) A California boring weevil (Yuccaborus frontalis).  (b) A large mothlike butterfly (Megathymus yuccæ) of the family Megatimidæ, whose larva bores in yucca roots. 

YUCK:  To itch. [Prov. Eng.] Grose. 

YUCK:  To scratch. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. 

YUCKEL:  Same as Yockel. 

YUEN:  The crowned gibbon (Hylobates pileatus), native of Siam, Southern China, and the Island of Hainan. It is entirely arboreal in its habits, and has very long arms. the males are dark brown or blackish, with a caplike mass of long dark hair, and usually with a white band around the face. The females are yellowish white, with a dark spot on the breast and another on the crown. Called also wooyen, and wooyen ape. 

YUFTS:  Russia leather.  YUG; YUGA Yug, Yu"ga, n. Etym: [Skr. yuga an age, a yoke. See Yoke.] (Hindoo Cosmog.)  Any one of the four ages, Krita, or Satya, Treta, Dwapara, and Kali, into which the Hindoos divide the duration or existence of the world. 

YUKE:  Same as Yuck. [Prov. Eng.] 

YULAN:  A species of Magnolia (M. conspicua) with large white blossoms that open before the leaves. See the Note under Magnolia. 

YULE:  Christmas or Christmastide; the feast of the Nativity of our Savior. And at each pause they kiss; was never seen such rule In any place but here, at bonfire, or at Yule. Drayton. Yule block, or Yule log, a large log of wood formerly put on the hearth of Christmas eve, as the foundation of the fire. It was brought in with much ceremony.  -- Yule clog, the yule log. Halliwell. W. Irving. 

YULETIDE:  Christmas time; Christmastide; the season of Christmas. 

YUMAN:  Designating, or pertaining to, an important linguistic stock of North American Indians of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico, nearly all agriculturists and adept potters and basket makers. Their usual dwelling is the brush wikiup, and in their native state they wear little clothing. The Yuma, Maricopa, Mohave, Walapi, and Yavapai are among the chief tribes, all of fine physique. 

YUMAS:  A tribe of Indians native of Arizona and the adjacent parts of Mexico and California. They are agricultural, and cultivate corn, wheat, barley, melons, etc.  Note: The a wider sense, the term sometimes includes the Mohaves and other allied tribes. 

YUNCA:  An Indian of a linguistic stock of tribes of the Peruvian coast who had a developed agricultural civilization at the advent of the Spaniards, before which they had been conquered by the Incas. They constructed irrigation canals which are still in use, adorned their buildings with bas-reliefs and frescoes, and were skilled goldsmiths and silversmiths. -- Yun"can (#), a. 

YUNX:  A genus of birds comprising the wrynecks. 

YUPON:  Same as Yaupon. 

YUX:  See Yex, n. [Obs.] 

YVEL:  Evil; ill. [Obs.] Chaucer. 

YWAR:  Aware; wary. [Obs.] "Be ywar, and his way shun." Piers Plowman. 

YWIS:  Certainly; most likely; truly; probably. [Obs. or Archaic] "Ywis," quod he, "it is full dear, I say." Chaucer. She answered me, "I-wisse, all their sport in the park is but a shadow to that pleasure that I find in Plato." Ascham. A right good knight, and true of word ywis. Spenser.  Note: The common form iwis was often written with the prefix apart from the rest of the word and capitalized, as, I wis, I wisse, etc. The prefix was mistaken for the pronoun, I and wis, wisse, for a form of the verb wit to know. See Wis, and cf. Wit, to know. Our ship, I wis, Shall be of another form than this. Longfellow. 

Z:  Z, the twenty-sixth and last letter of the English alphabet, is a vocal consonant. It is taken from the Latin letter Z, which came from the Greek alphabet, this having it from a Semitic source. The ultimate origin is probably Egyptian. Etymologically, it is most closely related to s, y, and j; as in glass, glaze; E. yoke, Gr. yugum; E. zealous, jealous. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 273, 274. 

ZA:  An old solfeggio name for B flat; the seventh harmonic, as heard in the or æolian string; -- so called by Tartini. It was long considered a false, but is the true note of the chord of the flat seventh. H. W. Poole.  ZABAISM; ZABISM Za"ba*ism, Za"bism, n.  See Sabianism. 

ZABIAN:  See Sabian. 

ZACCO:  See Zocco. 

ZACHUN:  An oil pressed by the Arabs from the fruit of a small thorny tree (Balanites Ægyptiaca), and sold to piligrims for a healing ointment. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 

ZAERTHE:  Same as Zärthe. 

ZAFFER:  A pigment obtained, usually by roasting cobalt glance with sand or quartz, as a dark earthy powder. It consists of crude cobalt oxide, or of an impure cobalt arseniate. It is used in porcelain painting, and in enameling pottery, to produce a blue color, and is often confounded with smalt, from which, however, it is distinct, as it contains no potash. The name is often loosely applied to mixtures of zaffer proper with silica, or oxides of iron, manganese, etc. [Written also zaffre, and formerly zaffree, zaffar, zaffir.] 

ZAIM:  A Turkish chief who supports a mounted militia bearing the same name. Smart. 

ZAIMET:  A district from which a Zaim draws his revenue. Smart. 

ZAIN:  A horse of a dark color, neither gray nor white, and having no spots. Smart. 

ZALAMBDODONT:  Of or pertaining to a tribe (Zalambdodonta) of Insectivora in which the molar teeth have but one V-shaped ridge. 

ZALAMBDODONT:  One of the Zalambdodonta. The tenrec, solenodon, and golden moles are examples. 

ZAMANG:  An immense leguminous tree (Pithecolobium Saman) of Venezuela. Its branches form a hemispherical mass, often one hundred and eighty feet across. The sweet pulpy pods are used commonly for feeding cattle. Also called rain tree. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). 

ZAMBO:  The child of a mulatto and a negro; also, the child of an Indian and a negro; colloquially or humorously, a negro; a sambo. 

ZAMIA:  A genus of cycadaceous plants, having the appearance of low palms, but with exogenous wood. See Coontie, and Illust. of Strobile. 

ZAMINDAR:  A landowner; also, a collector of land revenue; now, usually, a kind of feudatory recognized as an actual proprietor so long as he pays to the government a certain fixed revenue. [Written also zemindar.] [India]  ZAMINDARY; ZAMINDARI Zam"in*da*ry, Zam"in*da*ri, n.  The jurisdiction of a zamindar; the land possessed by a zamindar. [Written also zemindary, zemindari.] 

ZAMITE:  A fossil cycad of the genus Zamia. 

ZAMOUSE:  A West African buffalo (Bubalus brachyceros) having short horns depressed at the base, and large ears fringed internally with three rows of long hairs. It is destitute of a dewlap. Called also short- horned buffalo, and bush cow. 

ZAMPOGNA:  A sort of bagpipe formerly in use among Italian peasants. It is now almost obsolete. [Written also zampugna.] 

ZANDER:  A European pike perch (Stizostedion lucioperca) allied to the wall-eye; -- called also sandari, sander, sannat, schill, and zant. 

ZANDMOLE:  The sand mole. 

ZANTE:  See Zantewood.  ZANTE CURRANT Zan"te cur"rant.  A kind of seedless grape or raisin; -- so called from Zante, one of the Ionian Islands. 

ZANTIOT:  A native or inhabitant of Zante, one of the Ionian Islands. 

ZANY:  A merry-andrew; a buffoon. Then write that I may follow, and so be Thy echo, thy debtor, thy foil, thy zany. Donne. Preacher at once, and zany of thy age. Pope. 

ZANY:  To mimic. [Obs.] Your part is acted; give me leave at distance To zany it. Massinger. 

ZANYISM:  State or character of a zany; buffoonery. Coleridge. H. Morley. 

ZAPAS:  See Army organization, above. 

ZAPATERA:  A cured olive which has spoiled or is on the verge of decomposition; loosely, an olive defective because of bruises, wormholes, or the like. 

ZAPHARA:  Zaffer. 

ZAPHRENTIS:  An extinct genus of cyathophylloid corals common in the Paleozoic formations. It is cup-shaped with numerous septa, and with a deep pit in one side of the cup. 

ZAPOTILLA:  See Sapodilla. 

ZAPTIAH:  A Turkish policeman. [Written also zaptieh.]  ZARATHUSTRIAN; ZARATHUSTRIC Zar`a*thus"tri*an, Zar`a*thus"tric, a.  Of or pertaining to Zarathustra, or Zoroaster; Zoroastrian. Tylor. 

ZARATHUSTRISM:  See Zoroastrianism. 

ZARATITE:  A hydrous carbonate of nickel occurring as an emerald-green incrustation on chromite; -- called also emerald nickel. 

ZAREBA:  An improvised stockade; especially, one made of thorn bushes, etc. [Written also zareeba, and zeriba.] [Egypt] "Ah," he moralizes, "what wonderful instinct on the part of this little creature to surround itself with a zareba like the troops after Osman Digma." R. Jefferies. 

ZARF:  A metallic cuplike stand used for holding a finjan. 

ZARNICH:  Native sulphide of arsenic, including sandarach, or realgar, and orpiment.  ZARTHE; ZAERTHE Zär"the, n. (Zoöl.)  A European bream (Abramis vimba). [Written also zaerthe.] 

ZASTRUGI:  Grooves or furrows formed in snow by the action of the wind, and running parallel with the direction of the wind. This formation results from the erosion of transverse waves previously formed. 

ZATI:  A species of macaque (Macacus pileatus) native of India and Ceylon. It has a crown of long erect hair, and tuft of radiating hairs on the back of the head. Called also capped macaque. 

ZAUSCHNERIA:  A genus of flowering plants. Zauschneria Californica is a suffrutescent perennial, with showy red flowers much resembling those of the garden fuchsia. 

ZAX:  A tool for trimming and puncturing roofing states. [Written also sax.] 

ZAYAT:  A public shed, or portico, for travelers, worshipers, etc. [Burmah] 

ZEA:  A genus of large grasses of which the Indian corn (Zea Mays) is the only species known. Its origin is not yet ascertained. See Maize. 

ZEAL:  To be zealous. [Obs. & R.] Bacon. 

ZEALANT:  One who is zealous; a zealot; an enthusiast. [Obs.] To certain zealants, all speech of pacification is odious. Bacon. 

ZEALED:  Full of zeal; characterized by zeal. [Obs.] "Zealed religion." Beau. & Fl. 

ZEALFUL:  Full of zeal. [R.] Sylvester. 

ZEALLESS:  Wanting zeal. Hammond. 

ZEALOT:  One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, and pursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who is overzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion to anything; an enthusiast; a fanatical partisan. Zealots for the one [tradition] were in hostile array against zealots for the other. Sir J. Stephen. In Ayrshire, Clydesdale, Nithisdale, Annandale, every parish was visited by these turbulent zealots. Macaulay. 

ZEALOTICAL:  Like, or suitable to, a zealot; ardently zealous. [R.] Strype. 

ZEALOTISM:  The character or conduct of a zealot; zealotry. 

ZEALOTIST:  A zealot. [Obs.] Howell. 

ZEALOTRY:  The character and behavior of a zealot; excess of zeal; fanatical devotion to a cause. Enthusiasm, visionariness, seems the tendency of the German; zeal, zealotry, of the English; fanaticism, of the French. Coleridge. 

ZEBEC:  See Xebec. 

ZEBRA:  Either one of two species of South African wild horses remarkable for having the body white or yellowish white, and conspicuously marked with dark brown or brackish bands.  Note: The true or mountain zebra (Equus, or Asinus, zebra) is nearly white, and the bands which cover the body and legs are glossy black. Its tail has a tuft of black hair at the tip. It inhabits the mountains of Central and Southern Africa, and is noted for its wariness and wildness, as well as for its swiftness. The second species (Equus, or Asinus, Burchellii), known as Burchell's zebra, and dauw, inhabits the grassy plains of South Africa, and differs from the preceding in not having dark bands on the legs, while those on the body are more irregular. It has a long tail, covered with long white flowing hair. Zebra caterpillar, the larva of an American noctuid moth (Mamestra picta). It is light yellow, with a broad black stripe on the back and one on each side; the lateral stripes are crossed with withe lines. It feeds on cabbages, beets, clover, and other cultivated plants.  -- Zebra opossum, the zebra wolf. See under Wolf.  -- Zebra parrakeet, an Australian grass parrakeet, often kept as a cage bird. Its upper parts are mostly pale greenish yellow, transversely barred with brownish black crescents; the under parts, rump, and upper tail coverts, are bright green; two central tail feathers and the cheek patches are blue. Called also canary parrot, scallop parrot, shell parrot, and undulated parrot.  -- Zebra poison (Bot.), a poisonous tree (Euphorbia arborea) of the Spurge family, found in South Africa. Its milky juice is so poisonous that zebras have been killed by drinking water in which its branches had been placed, and it is also used as an arrow poison. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants).  -- Zebra shark. Same as Tiger shark, under Tiger.  -- Zebra spider, a hunting spider.  -- Zebra swallowtail, a very large North American swallow-tailed butterfly (Iphiclides ajax), in which the wings are yellow, barred with black; -- called also ajax.  -- Zebra wolf. See under Wolf. 

ZEBRINE:  Pertaining to, or resembling, the zebra. 

ZEBRINNY:  A cross between a male horse and a female zebra.  ZEBRULA; ZEBRULE Ze"bru*la, Ze"brule, n.  A cross between a male zebra and a female horse. 

ZEBU:  A bovine mammal (Ros Indicus) extensively domesticated in India, China, the East Indies, and East Africa. It usually has short horns, large pendulous ears, slender legs, a large dewlap, and a large, prominent hump over the shoulders; but these characters vary in different domestic breeds, which range in size from that of the common ox to that of a large mastiff.  Note: Some of the varieties are used as beasts of burden, and some fore for riding, while others are raised for their milk and flesh. The Brahmin bull, regarded as sacred by the Hindoos, also belongs to this species. The male is called also Indian bull, Indian ox, Madras ox, and sacred bull. 

ZEBUB:  A large noxious fly of Abyssinia, which like the tsetse fly, is destructive to cattle. 

ZECHIN:  See Sequin. 

ZECHSTEIN:  The upper division of the Permian (Dyas) of Europe. The prevailing rock is a magnesian limestone. 

ZED:  The letter Z; -- called also zee, and formerly izzard. "Zed, thou unnecessary letter!" Shak. 

ZEDOARY:  A medicinal substance obtained in the East Indian, having a fragrant smell, and a warm, bitter, aromatic taste. It is used in medicine as a stimulant.  Note: It is the rhizome of different species of Curcuma, esp. C. zedoaria, and comes in short, firm pieces, externally of a wrinkled gray, ash-colored appearance, but within of a brownish red color. There are two kinds, round zedoary, and long zedoary. 

ZEEKOE:  A hippopotamus.  ZEEMAN EFFECT Zee"man ef*fect". (Physics)  The widening and duplication, triplication, etc., of spectral lines when the radiations emanate in a strong magnetic field, first observed in 1896 by P. Zeeman, a Dutch physicist, and regarded as an important confirmation of the electromagnetic theory of light. 

ZEHNER:  An Austrian silver coin equal to ten kreutzers, or about five cents. 

ZEIN:  A nitrogenous substance of the nature of gluten, obtained from the seeds of Indian corn (Zea) as a soft, yellowish, amorphous substance. [Formerly written zeine.] 

ZEITGEIST:  The spirit of the time; the general intellectual and moral state or temper characteristic of any period of time. 

ZEMINDAR:  Same as Zamindar.  ZEMINDARY; ZEMINDARI Zem"in*da*ry, Zem"in*da*ri, n.  Same as Zamindary. 

ZEMNI:  The blind mole rat (Spalax typhlus), native of Eastern Europe and Asia. Its eyes and ears are rudimentary, and its fur is soft and brownish, more or less tinged with gray. It constructs extensive burrows. 

ZEMSTVO:  In Russia, an elective local district and provincial administrative assembly. Originally it was composed of representatives elected by the peasantry, the householders of the towns, and the landed proprietors. In the reign of Alexander III. the power of the noble landowners was increased, the peasants allowed only to elect candidates from whom the governor of the province nominated the deputy, and all acts of the zemstvo subjected to the approval of the governor. Theoretically the zemstvo has large powers relating to taxation, education, public health, etc., but practically these powers are in most cases limited to the adjustment of the state taxation. 

ZENANA:  The part of a dwelling appropriated to women. [India] 

ZEND:  Properly, the translation and exposition in the Huzvâresh, or literary Pehlevi, language, of the Avesta, the Zoroastrian sacred writings; as commonly used, the language (an ancient Persian dialect) in which the Avesta is written.  ZEND-AVESTA Zend`-A*ves"ta, n. Etym: [Properly, the Avesta, or sacred text, and its zend, or interpretation, in a more modern and intelligible language. W. D. Whitney.]  The sacred writings of the ancient Persian religion, attributed to Zoroaster, but chiefly of a later date. 

ZENDIK:  An atheist or unbeliever; -- name given in the East to those charged with disbelief of any revealed religion, or accused of magical heresies. 

ZENICK:  A South African burrowing mammal (Suricata tetradactyla), allied to the civets. It is grayish brown, with yellowish transverse stripes on the back. Called also suricat. 

ZENIK:  See Zenick. 

ZENITHAL:  Of or pertaining to the zenith. "The deep zenithal blue." Tyndall. 

ZEOLITE:  A term now used to designate any one of a family of minerals, hydrous silicates of alumina, with lime, soda, potash, or rarely baryta. Here are included natrolite, stilbite, analcime, chabazite, thomsonite, heulandite, and others. These species occur of secondary origin in the cavities of amygdaloid, basalt, and lava, also, less frequently, in granite and gneiss. So called because many of these species intumesce before the blowpipe. Needle zeolite, needlestone; natrolite. 

ZEOLITIC:  Of or pertaining to a zeolite; consisting of, or resembling, a zeolite. 

ZEOLITIFORM:  Having the form of a zeolite. 

ZEPHYR:  The west wind; poetically, any soft, gentle breeze. "Soft the zephyr blows." Gray. As gentle As zephyrs blowing below the violet. Shak. Zephyr cloth, a thin kind of cassimere made in Belgium; also, a waterproof fabric of wool.  -- Zephyr shawl, a kind of thin, light, embroidered shawl made of worsted and cotton.  -- Zephyr yarn, or worsted, a fine, soft kind of yarn or worsted, -- used for knitting and embroidery. 

ZEPHYRUS:  The west wind, or zephyr; -- usually personified, and made the most mild and gentle of all the sylvan deities. Mild as when Zephyrus on Flora breathes. Milton. 

ZEPPELIN:  A dirigible balloon of the rigid type, consisting of a cylindrical trussed and covered frame supported by internal gas cells, and provided with means of propulsion and  control. It was first successfully used by Ferdinand Count von Zeppelin. 

ZEQUIN:  See Sequin. 

ZERDA:  The fennec. 

ZERIBA:  Same as Zareba. 

ZERO:  A cipher; nothing; naught.  2. The point from which the graduation of a scale, as of a thermometer, commences.  Note: Zero in the Centigrade, or Celsius thermometer, and in the Réaumur thermometer, is at the point at which water congeals. The zero of the Fahrenheit thermometer is fixed at the point at which the mercury stands when immersed in a mixture of snow and common salt. In Wedgwood's pyrometer, the zero corresponds with 1077° on the Fahrenheit scale. See Illust. of Thermometer.  3. Fig.: The lowest point; the point of exhaustion; as, his patience had nearly reached zero. Absolute zero. See under Absolute.  -- Zero method (Physics), a method of comparing, or measuring, forces, electric currents, etc., by so opposing them that the pointer of an indicating apparatus, or the needle of a galvanometer, remains at, or is brought to, zero, as contrasted with methods in which the deflection is observed directly; -- called also null method.  -- Zero point, the point indicating zero, or the commencement of a scale or reckoning. 

ZETA:  A Greek letter [z] corresponding to our z. 

ZETETIC:  Seeking; proceeding by inquiry. Zetetic method (Math.), the method used for finding the value of unknown quantities by direct search, in investigation, or in the solution of problems. [R.] Hutton. 

ZETETIC:  A seeker; -- a name adopted by some of the Pyrrhonists. 

ZETETICS:  A branch of algebra which relates to the direct search for unknown quantities. [R.] 

ZEUGLODON:  A genus of extinct Eocene whales, remains of which have been found in the Gulf States. The species had very long and slender bodies and broad serrated teeth. See Phocodontia. 

ZEUGLODONT:  Any species of Zeuglodonta. 

ZEUGLODONTA:  Same as Phocodontia. 

ZEUGMA:  A figure by which an adjective or verb, which agrees with a nearer word, is, by way of supplement, referred also to another more remote; as, "hic illius arma, hic currus fuit;" where fuit, which agrees directly with currus, is referred also to arma. 

ZEUGMATIC:  Of or pertaining to zeugma; characterized by zeugma. 

ZEUGOBRANCHIATA:  Same as Zygobranchia. 

ZEUS:  The chief deity of the Greeks, and ruler of the upper world (cf. Hades). He was identified with Jupiter. 

ZEUZERIAN:  Any one of a group of bombycid moths of which the genus Zeuzera is the type. Some of these moths are of large size. The goat moth is an example. 

ZEYLANITE:  See Ceylanite.  ZIBET; ZIBETH Zib"et, Zib"eth, n. Etym: [Cf. It. zibetto. See Civet.] (Zoöl.)  A carnivorous mammal (Viverra zibetha) closely allied to the civet, from which it differs in having the spots on the body less distinct, the throat whiter, and the black rings on the tail more numerous.  Note: It inhabits India, Southern China, and the East Indies. It yields a perfume similar to that of the civet. It is often domesticated by the natives, and then serves the same purposes as the domestic cat. Called also Asiatic, or Indian, civet. 

ZIEGA:  Curd produced from milk by adding acetic acid, after rennet has ceased to cause coagulation. Brande & C. 

ZIETRISIKITE:  A mineral wax, vert similar to ozocerite. It is found at Zietrisika, Moldavia, whence its name. 

ZIF:  The second month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding to our May.  ZIGGER; ZIGHYR Zig"ger, Zig"hyr, v. i. (Mining)  Same as Sicker. [Prov. Eng.] Raymond. 

ZIGZAG:  A molding running in a zigzag line; a chevron, or series of chevrons. See Illust. of Chevron, 3.  3. (Fort.)  See Boyau. 

ZIGZAG:  Having short, sharp turns; running this way and that in an onward course. 

ZIGZAG:  To form with short turns. 

ZIGZAG:  To move in a zigzag manner; also, to have a zigzag shape. R. Browning. 

ZIGZAGGERY:  The quality or state of being zigzag; crookedness. [R.] The . . . zigzaggery of my father's approaches. Sterne. 

ZIGZAGGY:  Having sharp turns. Barham. 

ZIKKURAT:  A temple tower of the Babylonians or Assyrians, consisting of a lofty pyramidal structure, built in successive stages, with outside staircases, and a shrine at the top. 

ZILLA:  A low, thorny, suffrutescent, crucifeous plant (Zilla myagroides) found in the deserts of Egypt. Its leaves are boiled in water, and eaten, by the Arabs. 

ZILLAH:  A district or local division, as of a province. [India] 

ZIMB:  A large, venomous, two-winged fly, native of Abyssinia. It is allied to the tsetse fly, and, like the latter, is destructive to cattle.  ZIMENT-WATER Zim"ent-wa`ter, n. Etym: [G. cement-wasser. See Cement.]  A kind of water found in copper mines; water impregnated with copper. 

ZIMOCCA:  A sponge (Euspongia zimocca) of flat form and fine quality, from the Adriatic, about the Greek islands, and the coast of Barbary. 

ZINC:  An abundant element of the magnesium-cadmium group, extracted principally from the minerals zinc blende, smithsonite, calamine, and franklinite, as an easily fusible bluish white metal, which is malleable, especially when heated. It is not easily oxidized in moist air, and hence is used for sheeting, coating galvanized iron, etc. It is used in making brass, britannia, and other alloys, and is also largely consumed in electric batteries. Symbol Zn. Atomic weight 64.9 [Formerly written also zink.] Butter of zinc (Old Chem.), zinc chloride, ZnCl2, a deliquescent white waxy or oily substance.  -- Oxide of zinc. (Chem.) See Zinc oxide, below.  -- Zinc amine (Chem.), a white amorphous substance, Zn(NH2)2, obtained by the action of ammonia on zinc ethyl; -- called also zinc amide.  -- Zinc amyle (Chem.), a colorless, transparent liquid, composed of zinc and amyle, which, when exposed to the atmosphere, emits fumes, and absorbs oxygen with rapidity.  -- Zinc blende Etym: [cf. G. zinkblende] (Min.), a native zinc sulphide. See Blende, n. (a) -- Zinc bloom Etym: [cf. G. zinkblumen flowers of zinc, oxide of zinc] (Min.), hydrous carbonate of zinc, usually occurring in white earthy incrustations; -- called also hydrozincite.  -- Zinc ethyl (Chem.), a colorless, transparent, poisonous liquid, composed of zinc and ethyl, which takes fire spontaneously on exposure to the atmosphere.  -- Zinc green, a green pigment consisting of zinc and cobalt oxides; -- called also Rinmann's green.  -- Zinc methyl (Chem.), a colorless mobile liquid Zn(CH3)2, produced by the action of methyl iodide on a zinc sodium alloy. It has a disagreeable odor, and is spontaneously inflammable in the air. It has been of great importance in the synthesis of organic compounds, and is the type of a large series of similar compounds, as zinc ethyl, zinc amyle, etc.  -- Zinc oxide (Chem.), the oxide of zinc, ZnO, forming a light fluffy sublimate when zinc is burned; -- called also flowers of zinc, philosopher's wool, nihil album, etc. The impure oxide produced by burning the metal, roasting its ores, or in melting brass, is called also pompholyx, and tutty.  -- Zinc spinel (Min.), a mineral, related to spinel, consisting essentially of the oxides of zinc and aluminium; gahnite.  -- Zinc vitriol (Chem.), zinc sulphate. See White vitriol, under Vitriol.  -- Zinc white, a white powder consisting of zinc oxide, used as a pigment. 

ZINC:  To coat with zinc; to galvanize. 

ZINCANE:  Zinc chloride. [Obs.] 

ZINCIC:  Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zinc; zincous. 

ZINCIDE:  A binary compound of zinc. [R.] 

ZINCIFEROUS:  Containing or affording zinc. 

ZINCIFICATION:  The act or process of applying zinc; the condition of being zincified, or covered with zinc; galvanization. 

ZINCIFY:  To coat or impregnate with zinc. 

ZINCITE:  Native zinc oxide; a brittle, translucent mineral, of an orange-red color; -- called also red zinc ore, and red oxide of zinc.  ZINCKING; ZINCING Zinck"ing, or Zinc"ing, n. (Metal.)  The act or process of applying zinc; galvanization. 

ZINCKY:  , Pertaining to zinc, or having its appearance. [Written also zinky.]  ZINCO- Zin"co-.  A combining form from zinc; in chemistry, designating zinc as an element of certain double compounds. Also used adjectively. 

ZINCODE:  The positive electrode of an electrolytic cell; anode. [R.] Miller. 

ZINCOGRAPH:  A zinc plate prepared for printing by zincography; also, a print from such a plate. 

ZINCOGRAPHER:  Am engraver on zinc.  ZINCOGRAPHIC; ZINCOGRAPHICAL Zin`co*graph"ic, Zin`co*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to zincography; as, zincographic processes. 

ZINCOGRAPHY:  The art or process of engraving or etching on zinc, in which the design is left in relief in the style of a wood cut, the rest of the ground being eaten away by acid. 

ZINCOID:  Pertaining to, or resembling, zinc; -- said of the electricity of the zincous plate in connection with a copper plate in a voltaic circle; also, designating the positive pole. [Obs.]  ZINCO-POLAR Zin`co-po"lar, a. Etym: [Zinco- + polar.] (Elec.)  Electrically polarized like the surface of the zinc presented to the acid in a battery, which has zincous affinity. [Obs.] 

ZINCOUS:  Of or pertaining to the positive pole of a galvanic battery; electro-positive. 

ZINGARO:  A gypsy. 

ZINGEL:  A small, edible, freshwater European perch (Aspro zingel), having a round, elongated body and prominent snout. 

ZINGIBERACEOUS:  Of or pertaining to ginger, or to a tribe (Zingibereæ) of endogenous plants of the order Scitamineæ. See Scitamineous. 

ZINK:  See Zinc. [Obs.] 

ZINKENITE:  A steel-gray metallic mineral, a sulphide of antimony and lead. 

ZINKY:  See Zincky. Kirwan. 

ZINNIA:  Any plant of the composite genus Zinnia, Mexican herbs with opposite leaves and large gay-colored blossoms. Zinnia elegans is the commonest species in cultivation. 

ZINNWALDITE:  A kind of mica containing lithium, often associated with tin ore. 

ZINSANG:  The delundung. 

ZINZIBERACEOUS:  Same as Zingiberaceous. 

ZION:  A hill in Jerusalem, which, after the capture of that city by the Israelites, became the royal residence of David and his successors.  2. Hence, the theocracy, or church of God.  3. The heavenly Jerusalem; heaven. 

ZIONISM:  Among the Jews, a theory, plan, or movement for colonizing their own race in Palestine, the land of Zion, or, if that is impracticable, elsewhere, either for religious or nationalizing purposes; -- called also Zion movement. --Zi"on*ist, n. -- Zi`on*is"tic (#), a. 

ZIP:  A hissing or sibilant sound such as that made by a flying bullet. 

ZIP:  To make, or move with, such a sound. 

ZIPHIOID:  See Xiphioid.  ZIRCO- Zir"co-. (Chem.)  A combining form (also used adjectively) designating zirconium as an element of certain double compounds; zircono-; as in zircofluoric acid, sodium zircofluoride. 

ZIRCOFLUORIDE:  A double fluoride of zirconium and hydrogen, or some other positive element or radical; as, zircofluoride of sodium. 

ZIRCON:  A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually of a brown or gray color. It consists of silica and zirconia. A red variety, used as a gem, is called hyacinth. Colorless, pale-yellow or smoky- brown varieties from Ceylon are called jargon. Zircon syenite, a coarse-grained syenite containing zircon crystals and often also elæolite. It is largely developed in Southern Norway. 

ZIRCONA:  Zirconia. 

ZIRCONATE:  A salt of zirconic acid. 

ZIRCONIA:  The oxide of zirconium, obtained as a white powder, and possessing both acid and basic properties. On account of its infusibility, and brilliant luminosity when incandescent, it is used as an ingredient of sticks for the Drummomd light. 

ZIRCONIC:  Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zirconium; as, zirconic oxide; zirconic compounds. Zirconic acid, an acid of zirconium analogous to carbonic and silicic acids, known only in its salts. 

ZIRCONIUM:  A rare element of the carbon-silicon group, intermediate between the metals and nonmetals, obtained from the mineral zircon as a dark sooty powder, or as a gray metallic crystalline substance. Symbol Zr. Atomic weight, 90.4.  ZIRCON LIGHT Zir"con light. (Physics)  A light, similar to the calcium light, produced by incandescent zirconia. 

ZIRCONO:  See Zirco-. 

ZIRCONOID:  A double eight-sided pyramid, a form common with tetragonal crystals; -- so called because this form often occurs in crystals of zircon. 

ZITHER:  An instrument of music used in Austria and Germany. It has from thirty to forty wires strung across a shallow sounding-board, which lies horizontally on a table before the performer, who uses both hands in playing on it.  Note: [Not to be confounded with the old lute-shaped cittern, or cithern.] 

ZITTERN:  See Cittern. 

ZIZANIA:  A genus of grasses including Indian rice. See Indian rice, under Rice. 

ZIZEL:  The suslik. [Written also zisel.] 

ZIZITH:  The tassels of twisted cords or threads on the corners of the upper garment worn by strict Jews. The Hebrew for this word is translated in both the Authorized and Revised Versions (Deut. xxii. 12) by the word "fringes." 

ZOANTHACEA:  A suborder of Actinaria, including Zoanthus and allied genera, which are permanently attached by their bases. 

ZOANTHARIA:  Same as Anthozoa. 

ZOANTHARIAN:  Of or pertaining to the Zoantharia.  -- n.  One of the Anthozoa. 

ZOANTHODEME:  The zooids of a compound anthozoan, collectively. 

ZOANTHOID:  Of or pertaining to the Zoanthacea. 

ZOANTHROPY:  A kind of monomania in which the patient believes himself transformed into one of the lower animals. 

ZOANTHUS:  A genus of Actinaria, including numerous species, found mostly in tropical seas. The zooids or polyps resemble small, elongated actinias united together at their bases by fleshy stolons, and thus forming extensive groups. The tentacles are small and bright colored. 

ZOBO:  A kind of domestic cattle reared in Asia for its flesh and milk. It is supposed to be a hybrid between the zebu and the yak.  ZOCCO; ZOCCOLO Zoc"co, Zoc"co*lo, n. Etym: [It. fr. L. socculus. See Socle, and cf. Zacco.] (Arch.)  Same as Socle. 

ZOCLE:  Same as Socle. 

ZODIACAL:  Of or pertaining to the zodiac; situated within the zodiac; as, the zodiacal planets. Zodiacal light, a luminous tract of the sky, of an elongated, triangular figure, lying near the ecliptic, its base being on the horizon, and its apex at varying altitudes. It is to be seen only in the evening, after twilight, and in the morning before dawn. It is supposed to be due to sunlight reflected from multitudes of meteoroids revolving about the sun nearly in the plane of the ecliptic. 

ZOEA:  A peculiar larval stage of certain decapod Crustacea, especially of crabs and certain Anomura. [Written also zoæa.]  Note: In this stage the anterior part of the body is relatively large, and usually bears three or four long spines. The years are conspicuous, and the antennæ and jaws are long, fringed organs used in swimming. The thoracic legs are undeveloped or rudimentary, the abdomen long, slender, and often without appendages. The zoëa, after casting its shell, changes to a megalops. 

ZOETROPE:  An optical toy, in which figures made to revolve on the inside of a cylinder, and viewed through slits in its circumference, appear like a single figure passing through a series of natural motions as if animated or mechanically moved. 

ZOHAR:  A Jewish cabalistic book attributed by tradition to Rabbi Simon ben Yochi, who lived about the end of the 1st century, a. d. Modern critics believe it to be a compilation of the 13th century. Encyc. Brit. 

ZOIC:  Of or pertaining to animals, or animal life. 

ZOIDE:  See Meride. 

ZOILEAN:  Having the characteristic of Zoilus, a bitter, envious, unjust critic, who lived about 270 years before Christ. 

ZOILISM:  Resemblance to Zoilus in style or manner; carping criticism; detraction. Bring candid eyes the perusal of men's works, and let not Zoilism or detraction blast well-intended labors. Sir T. Browne. 

ZOISITE:  A grayish or whitish mineral occurring in orthorhombic, prismatic crystals, also in columnar masses. It is a silicate of alumina and lime, and is allied to epidote. 

ZOKOR:  An Asiatic burrowing rodent (Siphneus aspalax) resembling the mole rat. It is native of the Altai Mountains. 

ZOLAESQUE:  In the style of Zola (see Zolaism). 

ZOLAISM:  The literary theories and practices of the French novelist Emile Zola (1840-1902); naturalism, esp. in a derogatory sense. -- Zo"la*ist, n. -- Zo`la*is"tic (#), a. -- Zo"la*ize (#), v.  ZOLLNER'S LINES Zöll"ner's lines`. [So called after Friedrich Zöllner, a German physicist.]  Parallel lines that are made to appear convergent or divergent by means of oblique intersections. 

ZOLLVEREIN:  Literally, a customs union; specifically, applied to the several customs unions successively formed under the leadership of Prussia among certain German states for establishing liberty of commerce among themselves and common tariff on imports, exports, and transit.  Note: In 1834 a zollverein was established which included most of the principal German states except Austria. This was terminated by the events of 1866, and in 1867 a more closely organized union was formed, the administration of which was ultimately merged in that of the new German empire, with which it nearly corresponds territorially. 

ZOMBORUK:  See Zumbooruk. 

ZONA:  A zone or band; a layer. Zona pellucida. Etym: [NL.] (Biol.) (a) The outer transparent layer, or envelope, of the ovum. It is a more or less elastic membrane with radiating striæ, and corresponds to the cell wall of an ordinary cell. See Ovum, and Illust. of Microscope. (b) The zona radiata.  -- Zona radiata Etym: [NL.] (Biol.), a radiately striated membrane situated next the yolk of an ovum, or separated from it by a very delicate membrane only. 

ZONAL:  Of or pertaining to a zone; having the form of a zone or zones. Zonal equation (Crystallog.), the mathematical relation which belongs to all the planes of a zone, and expresses their common position with reference to the axes.  -- Zonal structure (Crystallog.), a structure characterized by the arrangements of color, inclusions, etc., of a crystal in parallel or concentric layers, which usually follow the outline of the crystal, and mark the changes that have taken place during its growth.  -- Zonal symmetry. (Biol.) See the Note under Symmetry. 

ZONAR:  A belt or girdle which the Christians and Jews of the Levant were obliged to wear to distinguish them from Mohammedans. [Written also zonnar.] 

ZONARIA:  A division of Mammalia in which the placenta is zonelike. 

ZONATE:  Divided by parallel planes; as, zonate tetraspores, found in certain red algæ. 

ZONE:  One of the five great divisions of the earth, with respect to latitude and temperature.  Note: The zones are five: the torrid zone, extending from tropic to tropic 46º 56min, or 23º 28min on each side of the equator; two temperate or variable zones, situated between the tropics and the polar circles; and two frigid zones, situated between the polar circles and the poles. Commerce . . . defies every wind, outrides every tempest, and invades. Bancroft.  3. (Math.)  The portion of the surface of a sphere included between two parallel planes; the portion of a surface of revolution included between two planes perpendicular to the axis. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict.)  4. (Nat. Hist.) (a) A band or stripe extending around a body. (b) A band or area of growth encircling anything; as, a zone of evergreens on a mountain; the zone of animal or vegetable life in the ocean around an island or a continent; the Alpine zone, that part of mountains which is above the limit of tree growth.  5. (Crystallog.)  A series of planes having mutually parallel intersections.  6. Circuit; circumference. [R.] Milton. Abyssal zone. (Phys. Geog.) See under Abyssal.  -- Zone axis (Crystallog.), a straight line passing through the center of a crystal, to which all the planes of a given zone are parallel. 

ZONE:  To girdle; to encircle. [R.] Keats. 

ZONED:  Zonate. 

ZONELESS:  Not having a zone; ungirded. The reeling goddess with the zoneless waist. Cowper. In careless folds, loose fell her zoneless vest. Mason. 

ZONNAR:  See Zonar. 

ZONULAR:  Of or pertaining to a zone; zone-shaped. "The zonular type of a placenta." Dana. 

ZONULE:  A little zone, or girdle. 

ZONULET:  A zonule. Herrick. 

ZONURE:  Any one of several of South African lizards of the genus Zonura, common in rocky situations.  ZOO-; ZOOE- Zo"ö-.  A combining form from Gr. zwo^,n an animal, as in zoögenic, zoölogy, etc.  ZOOCHEMICAL; ZOOECHEMICAL Zo`ö*chem"ic*al, a.  Pertaining to zoöchemistry.  ZOOCHEMISTRY; ZOOECHEMISTRY Zo`ö*chem"is*try, n. Etym: [Zoö- + chemistry.]  Animal chemistry; particularly, the description of the chemical compounds entering into the composition of the animal body, in distinction from biochemistry.  ZOOCHEMY; ZOOECHEMY Zo*öch"e*my, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr.  Animal chemistry; zoöchemistry. Dunglison.  ZOOCHLORELLA; ZOOECHLORELLA Zo`ö*chlo*rel"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. from Gr. (Zoöl.)  One of the small green granulelike bodies found in the interior of certain stentors, hydras, and other invertebrates.  ZOOCYST; ZOOECYST Zo"ö*cyst, n. Etym: [Zoö- + cyst.] (Biol.)  A cyst formed by certain Protozoa and unicellular plants which the contents divide into a large number of granules, each of which becomes a germ.  ZOOCYTIUM; ZOOECYTIUM Zo`ö*cy"ti*um, n.; pl. Zoöcytia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  The common support, often branched, of certain species of social Infusoria.  ZOODENDRIUM; ZOOEDENDRIUM Zo`ö*den"dri*um, n.; pl. Zoödendria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  The branched, and often treelike, support of the colonies of certain Infusoria. 

ZOOECIUM:  One of the cells or tubes which inclose the feeling zooids of Bryozoa. See Illust. of Sea Moss.  ZOOERYTHRINE; ZOOEERYTHRINE Zo`ö*e*ryth"rine, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. (Zoöl.)  A peculiar organic red coloring matter found in the feathers of various birds.  ZOOGAMOUS; ZOOEGAMOUS Zo*ög"a*mous, a. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. (Biol.)  Of or pertaining zoögamy.  ZOOGAMY; ZOOEGAMY Zo*ög"a*my, n. (Biol.)  The sexual reproduction of animals.  ZOOGENIC; ZOOEGENIC Zo`ö*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Zoö- + -gen + -ic: cf. Gr. (Biol.)  Of or pertaining to zoögeny, animal production.  ZOOGENY; ZOOEGENY; ZOOGONY; ZOOEGONY Zo*ög"e*ny, Zo*ög"o*ny, n. Etym: [Zoö- + root of Gr.  The doctrine of the formation of living beings.  ZOOGEOGRAPHICAL; ZOOEGEOGRAPHICAL Zo`ö*ge`o*graph"ic*al, a.  Of or pertaining to zoögraphy.  ZOOGEOGRAPHY; ZOOEGEOGRAPHY Zo`ö*ge*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Zoö- + geography.]  The study or description of the geographical distribution of animals.  ZOOGLOEA; ZOOEGLOEA Zo`ö*gloe"a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Biol.)  A colony or mass of bacteria imbedded in a viscous gelatinous substance. The zoögloea is characteristic of a transitory stage through which rapidly multiplying bacteria pass in the course of their evolution. Also used adjectively.  ZOOGRAPHER; ZOOEGRAPHER Zo*ög"ra*pher, n.  One who describes animals, their forms and habits.  ZOOGRAPHIC; ZOOEGRAPHIC; ZOOGRAPHICAL; ZOOEGRAPHICAL Zo`ö*graph"ic, Zo`ö*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zoographique.]  Of or pertaining to the description of animals.  ZOOGRAPHIST; ZOOEGRAPHIST Zo*ög"ra*phist, n.  A zoögrapher.  ZOOGRAPHY; ZOOEGRAPHY Zo*ög"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Zoö- + -graphy: cf. F. zoographie.]  A description of animals, their forms and habits. 

ZOOID:  Pertaining to, or resembling, an animal. 

ZOOID:  An organic body or cell having locomotion, as a spermatic cell or spermatozooid.  2. (Zoöl.) (a) An animal in one of its inferior stages of development, as one of the intermediate forms in alternate generation. (b) One of the individual animals in a composite group, as of Anthozoa, Hydroidea, and Bryozoa; -- sometimes restricted to those individuals in which the mouth and digestive organs are not developed. 

ZOOIDAL:  Of or pertaining to a zooid; as, a zooidal form.  ZOOLATRY; ZOOELATRY Zo*öl"a*try, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr.  The worship of animals.  ZOOLOGER; ZOOELOGER Zo*öl"o*ger, n.  A zoölogist. Boyle.  ZOOLOGICAL; ZOOELOGICAL Zo`ö*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zoologique.]  Of or pertaining to zoölogy, or the science of animals.  ZOOLOGICALLY; ZOOELOGICALLY Zo`ö*log"ic*al*ly, adv.  In a zoölogical manner; according to the principles of zoölogy.  ZOOLOGIST; ZOOELOGIST Zo*öl"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. zoologiste.]  One who is well versed in zoölogy. 

ZOOLOGIZE:  To study zoölogy; esp., to collect animals for study.  ZOOLOGY; ZOOELOGY Zo*öl"o*gy, n.; pl. Zoölogies. Etym: [Zoö- + -logy: cf. F. zoologie. See Zodiac.]  1. That part of biology which relates to the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct.  2. A treatise on this science.  ZOOMELANIN; ZOOEMELANIN Zo`ö*mel"a*nin, n. Etym: [Zoö- + melanin.] (Physiol. Chem.)  A pigment giving the black color to the feathers of many birds.  ZOOMORPHIC; ZOOEMORPHIC Zo`ö*mor"phic, a. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr.  Of or pertaining to zoömorphism.  ZOOMORPHISM; ZOOEMORPHISM Zo`ö*mor"phism, n.  1. The transformation of men into beasts. [R.] Smart.  2. The quality of representing or using animal forms; as, zoömorphism in ornament.  3. The representation of God, or of gods, in the form, or with the attributes, of the lower animals. To avoid the error of anthropomorphism, we fall into the vastly greater, and more absurd, error of zoömorphism. Mivart.  ZOON; ZOOEN Zo"ön, n.; pl. Zoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) (a) An animal which is the sole product of a single egg; -- opposed to zooid. H. Spencer. (b) Any one of the perfectly developed individuals of a compound animal.  ZOONIC; ZOOENIC Zo*ön"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. zoonique.]  Of or pertaining to animals; obtained from animal substances.  ZOONITE; ZOOENITE Zo"ö*nite, n. (Zoöl.) (a) One of the segments of the body of an articulate animal. (b) One of the theoretic transverse divisions of any segmented animal.  ZOONOMY; ZOOENOMY Zo*ön"o*my, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. zoonomie.]  The laws animal life, or the science which treats of the phenomena of animal life, their causes and relations.  ZOONULE; ZOOENULE Zo"ö*nule, n. Etym: [Dim. fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  Same as Zoönite.  ZOOPATHOLOGY; ZOOEPATHOLOGY Zo`ö*pa*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Zoö- + pathology.]  Animal pathology.  ZOOPHAGA; ZOOEPHAGA Zo*öph"a*ga, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)  An artificial group comprising various carnivorous and insectivorous animals.  ZOOPHAGAN; ZOOEPHAGAN Zo*öph"a*gan, n. (Zoöl.)  A animal that feeds on animal food.  ZOOPHAGOUS; ZOOEPHAGOUS Zo*öph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr.  Feeding on animals.  Note: This is a more general term than either sarcophagous or carnivorous.  ZOOPHILIST; ZOOEPHILIST Zo*öph"i*list, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr.  A lover of animals. Southey.  ZOOPHILY; ZOOEPHILY Zo*öph"i*ly, n.  Love of animals.  ZOOPHITE; ZOOEPHITE Zo"ö*phite, n.  A zoöphyte. [R.]  ZOOPHORIC; ZOOEPHORIC Zo`ö*phor"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. zoophorique.]  Bearing or supporting the figure of an animal; as, a zoöphoric column.  ZOOPHOROUS; ZOOEPHOROUS Zo*öph"o*rous, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Zoöphoric.] (Anc. Arch.)  The part between the architrave and cornice; the frieze; -- so called from the figures of animals carved upon it.  ZOOPHYTA; ZOOEPHYTA Zo*öph"y*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)  An extensive artificial and heterogeneous group of animals, formerly adopted by many zoölogists. It included the coelenterates, echinoderms, sponges, Bryozoa, Protozoa, etc.  Note: Sometimes the name is restricted to the Coelentera, or to the Anthozoa.  ZOOPHYTE; ZOOEPHYTE Zo"ö*phyte, n. Etym: [F. zoophyte, Gr. Zodiac, and Be, v. i.] (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of invertebrate animals which more or less resemble plants in appearance, or mode of growth, as the corals, gorgonians, sea anemones, hydroids, bryozoans, sponges, etc., especially any of those that form compound colonies having a branched or treelike form, as many corals and hydroids. (b) Any one of the Zoöphyta.  ZOOPHYTIC; ZOOEPHYTIC; ZOOPHYTICAL; ZOOEPHYTICAL Zo`ö*phyt"ic, Zo`ö*phyt"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zoophytique.] (Zoöl.)  Of or pertaining to zoöphytes.  ZOOPHYTOID; ZOOEPHYTOID Zo*öph"y*toid, a. Etym: [Zoöphyte + -oid.] (Zoöl.)  Pertaining to, or resembling, a zoöphyte.  ZOOPHYTOLOGICAL; ZOOEPHYTOLOGICAL Zo`ö*phyt`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zoophytologique.]  Of or pertaining to zoöphytology; as, zoöphytological observations.  ZOOPHYTOLOGY; ZOOEPHYTOLOGY Zo*öph`y*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Zoöphyte + -logy: cf. F. zoophytologie.]  The natural history zoöphytes.  ZOOPRAXISCOPE; ZOOEPRAXISCOPE Zo`ö*prax"i*scope, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. -scope.]  An instrument similar to, or the same as, the, the phenakistoscope, by means of which pictures projected upon a screen are made to exhibit the natural movements of animals, and the like.  ZOOPSYCHOLOGY; ZOOEPSYCHOLOGY Zo`ö*psy*chol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Zoö- + psychology.]  Animal psychology.  ZOOSPERM; ZOOESPERM Zo"ö*sperm, n. Etym: [Zoö- + sperm.] (Biol.)  One of the spermatic particles; spermatozoid.  ZOOSPORANGIUM; ZOOESPORANGIUM Zo`ö*spo*ran"gi*um, n.; pl. -sporangia. Etym: [NL. See Zoö-, and Sporangium.] (Bot.)  A spore, or conceptacle containing zoöspores.  ZOOSPORE; ZOOESPORE Zo"ö*spore, n. Etym: [Zoö- + spore.]  1. (Bot.)  A spore provided with one or more slender cilia, by the vibration of which it swims in the water. Zoöspores are produced by many green, and by some olive-brown, algæ. In certain species they are divided into the larger macrozoöspores and the smaller microzoöspores. Called also sporozoid, and swarmspore.  2. (Zoöl.)  See Swarmspore.  ZOOSPORIC; ZOOESPORIC Zo`ö*spor"ic, a.  Of or pertaining to zoöspores; of the nature of zoöspores.  ZOOTIC; ZOOETIC Zo*öt"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.  Containing the remains of organized bodies; -- said of rock or soil.  ZOOTOMICAL; ZOOETOMICAL Zo`ö*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. zootomique.]  Of or pertaining to zoötomy.  ZOOTOMIST; ZOOETOMIST Zo*öt"o*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. zootomiste.]  One who dissects animals, or is skilled in zoötomy.  ZOOTOMY; ZOOETOMY Zo*öt"o*my, n. Etym: [Zoö- + Gr. zootomie.]  The dissection or the anatomy of animals; -- distinguished from androtomy.  ZOOTROPHIC; ZOOETROPHIC Zo`ö*troph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Zoö-, and Trophic.] (Physiol.)  Of or pertaining to the nourishment of animals. 

ZOOZOO:  The wood pigeon. [Prov. Eng.] 

ZOPE:  A European fresh-water bream (Abramis ballerus). 

ZOPILOTE:  The urubu, or American black vulture. 

ZORIL:  Same as Zorilla. 

ZORILLA:  Either one of two species of small African carnivores of the genus Ictonyx allied to the weasels and skunks. [Written also zoril, and zorille.]  Note: The best-known species (Ictonyx zorilla) has black shiny fur with white bands and spots. It has anal glands which produce a very offensive secretion, similar to that of the skunk. It feeds upon birds and their eggs and upon small mammals, and is often very destructive to poultry. It is sometimes tamed by the natives, and kept to destroy rats and mice. Called also mariput, Cape polecat, and African polecat. The name is sometimes erroneously applied to the American skunk. 

ZOROASTRIAN:  Of or pertaining to Zoroaster, or his religious system. 

ZOROASTRIAN:  A follower of Zoroaster; one who accepts Zoroastrianism. 

ZOROASTRIANISM:  The religious system of Zoroaster, the legislator and prophet of the ancient Persians, which was the national faith of Persia; mazdeism. The system presupposes a good spirit (Ormuzd) and an opposing evil spirit (Ahriman). Cf. Fire worship, under Fire, and Parsee. 

ZOROASTRISM:  Same as Zoroastrianism. Tylor. 

ZOSTER:  Shingles. 

ZOSTERA:  A genus of plants of the Naiadaceæ, or Pondweed family. Zostera marina is commonly known as sea wrack, and eelgrass. 

ZOSTEROPS:  A genus of birds that comprises the white-eyes. See White-eye. 

ZOUNDS:  An exclamation formerly used as an oath, and an expression of anger or wonder. 

ZOUTCH:  To stew, as flounders, eels, etc., with just enough or liquid to cover them. Smart. 

ZUBR:  The aurochs. 

ZUCHE:  A stump of a tree. Cowell. 

ZUCHETTO:  A skullcap covering the tonsure, worn under the berretta. The pope's is white; a cardinal's red; a bishop's purple; a priest's black. 

ZUFOLO:  A little flute or flageolet, especially that which is used to teach birds. [Written also zuffolo.] 

ZUIAN:  Of or pert. to the Zuñis, or designating their linguistic stock. --n.  A Zuñi. 

ZUISIN:  The American widgeon. [Local, U. S.] 

ZULU:  A member of the Bantu race comprising the Zulus and the Kaffirs. 

ZULUS:  The most important tribe belonging to the Kaffir race. They inhabit a region on the southeast coast of Africa, but formerly occupied a much more extensive country. They are noted for their warlike disposition, courage, and military skill. 

ZUMBOORUK:  A small cannon supported by a swiveled rest on the back of a camel, whence it is fired, -- used in the East.  ZUMIC; ZUMOLOGICAL; ZUMOLOGY; ZUMOMETER Zu"mic, a., Zu`mo*log"ic*al, a., Zu*mol"o*gy, n., Zu*mom"e*ter, n., etc.  See Zymic, Zymological, etc. 

ZUNIS:  A tribe of Pueblo Indians occupying a village in New Mexico, on the Zuni River. 

ZUNYITE:  A fluosilicate of alumina occurring in tetrahedral crystals at the Zuñi mine in Colorado. 

ZWANZIGER:  Am Austrian silver coin equivalent to 20 kreutzers, or about 10 cents. 

ZWIEBACK:  A kind of biscuit or  rusk first baked in a loaf and afterwards cut and toasted. 

ZWINGLIAN:  Of or pertaining to Ulric Zwingli (1481-1531), the reformer of German Switzerland, who maintained that in the Lord's Supper the true body of Christ is present by the contemplation of faith but not in essence or reality, and that the sacrament is a memorial without mystical elements. -- n.  A follower of Zwingli. 

ZYGANTRUM:  See under Zygosphene. 

ZYGAPOPHYSIS:  One of the articular processes of a vertebra, of which there are usually four, two anterior and two posterior. See under Vertebra.  -- Zyg`ap*o*phys"i*al, a. 

ZYGENID:  Any one of numerous species of moths of the family Zygænidæ, most of which are bright colored. The wood nymph and the vine forester are examples. Also used adjectively. 

ZYGOBRANCHIA:  A division of marine gastropods in which the gills are developed on both sides of the body and the renal organs are also paired. The abalone (Haliotis) and the keyhole limpet (Fissurella) are examples. 

ZYGOBRANCHIATE:  Of or pertaining to the Zygobranchia.  ZYGODACTYL; ZYGODACTYLE Zyg`o*dac"tyl, Zyg`o*dac"tyle, n. Etym: [See Zygodactylic.] (Zoöl.)  Any zygodactylous bird. 

ZYGODACTYLAE:  The zygodactylous birds. In a restricted sense applied to a division of birds which includes the barbets, toucans, honey guides, and other related birds. 

ZYGODACTYLI:  Same as Scansores.  ZYGODACTYLIC; ZYGODACTYLOUS Zyg`o*dac"ty*lic, Zyg`o*dac"tyl*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. zygodactyle.] (Zoöl.)  Yoke-footed; having the toes disposed in pairs; -- applied to birds which have two toes before and two behind, as the parrot, cuckoo, woodpecker, etc. 

ZYGOMATIC:  Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the zygoma. Zygomatic arch, the arch of bone beneath the orbit, formed in most mammals by the union of the malar, or jugal, with the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. In the lower vertebrates other bones may help to form it, and there may be two arches on each side of the skull, as in some reptiles.  -- Zygomatic process, a process of the temporal or squamosal bone helping to form the zygomatic arch.  ZYGOMORPHIC; ZYGOMORPHOUS Zyg`o*mor"phic, Zyg`o*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)  Symmetrical bilaterally; -- said of organisms, or parts of organisms, capable of division into two symmetrical halves only in a single plane. 

ZYGOPHYTE:  Any plant of a proposed class or grand division (Zygophytes, Zygophyta, or Zygosporeæ), in which reproduction consists in the union of two similar cells. Cf. Oöphyte. 

ZYGOSIS:  Same as Conjugation. 

ZYGOSPERM:  A spore formed by the union of the contents of two similar cells, either of the same or of distinct individual plants. Zygosperms are found in certain orders of algæ and fungi. 

ZYGOSPHENE:  A median process on the front part of the neural arch of the vertebræ of most snakes and some lizards, which fits into a fossa, called the zygantrum, on the back part of the arch in front. 

ZYLONITE:  Celluloid. 

ZYMASE:  A soluble ferment, or enzyme. See Enzyme. 

ZYME:  The morbific principle of a zymotic disease. Quain. 

ZYMIC:  Pertaining to, or produced by, fermentation; -- formerly, by confusion, used to designate lactic acid. 

ZYMOGEN:  A mother substance, or antecedent, of an enzyme or chemical ferment; -- applied to such substances as, not being themselves actual ferments, may by internal changes give rise to a ferment. The pancreas contains but little ready-made ferment, though there is present in it a body, zymogen, which gives birth to the ferment. Foster. 

ZYMOGENE:  One of a physiological group of globular bacteria which produces fermentations of diverse nature; -- distinguished from pathogene. 

ZYMOGENIC:  Of or pertaining to zymology. 

ZYMOLOGIST:  One who is skilled in zymology, or in the fermentation of liquors. 

ZYMOLOGY:  A treatise on the fermentation of liquors, or the doctrine of fermentation. [Written also zumology.] 

ZYMOLYSIS:  The action of enzymes; also, the changes produced by such action. --Zy`mo*lyt"ic (#), a.   

ZYMOME:  A glutinous substance, insoluble in alcohol, resembling legumin; -- now called vegetable fibrin, vegetable albumin, or gluten casein.  ZYMOMETER; ZYMOSIMETER Zy*mom"e*ter, Zy`mo*sim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. zymosimètre.]  An instrument for ascertaining the degree of fermentation occasioned by the mixture of different liquids, and the degree of heat which they acquire in fermentation. 

ZYMOPHYTE:  A bacteroid ferment. 

ZYMOSE:  Invertin. 

ZYMOTIC:  Designating, or pertaining to, a certain class of diseases. See Zymotic disease, below. Zymotic disease (Med.), any epidemic, endemic, contagious, or sporadic affection which is produced by some morbific principle or organism acting on the system like a ferment. 

ZYTHEM:  See Zythum. 

ZYTHEPSARY:  A brewery. [R.] 

ZYTHUM:  A kind of ancient malt beverage; a liquor made from malt and wheat. [Written also zythem.]      

